L 


^IBRARYSHEUr 


^/^ 


ifflCE  OF  H.M.  PROCURATOR  GENERA^ 

AND  TREASURY  SOLICITOR 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2011  with  funding  from 

University  of  Toronto 


http://www.archive.org/details/calendarofcloser12grea 


^ 


*', 


>  ^^'":I>^ 


\ 

i 


CALENDAR 


OF     THE 


CLOSE     ROLLS. 


PRESERVED    IN    THE 


PUBLIC  RECCED  OFFICE. 


PREPARED     UNDER    THE    SUPERINTENDENCE    OF 

THE  DEPUTY  KEEPER  OF  THE  RECORDS. 


EDWAKD    III. 

VOL.    XII. 
A.D.    1364— 1368. 


PUBI.ISIIED     BT     AUTHORITY     OF    HIS     MAJESTY  8     PBINCIPAL    SECRETARY     OF    STATE 

FOR    THE     HOME     DEPARTitENT. 


LONDON : 

PRINTED    FOR    HIS    MAJESTY'S    STATIONERY    OFFICE 

BY    THE    HEREFORD    TIMES    CO.,    LTD., 

Maylord  Street,  Hereford. 


And  to  be  purchased,  either  directly  or  tlirough  any  Bookseller,  from 

WYINIAN    AND    SONS,    Ltd.,    Fetter    Lane,    E.G.;    or 

OLIVER    AND    BOYD,    Tweeddale    Court,    Edinburgh  ;    or 

E.    PONSONBY,    116,   Grafton  Street,   Dublin. 

1910. 


CONTENTS. 


Page 
Preface  -  .  .  -  .  v 

Corrigenda      -----  vii 

Calendar         .  -  .  .  .  l 

General  Index  ....  505 


I 


(V) 


PEEFACE. 


The  present  volume  forms  part  of  a  series  of  Calendars 
of  the  Close  Rolls  from  the  reign  of  Edward  I  to 
that  of  Edward  IV,  the  object  and  character  ot  which 
are  explained  in  the  Preface  to  the  first  volume  for 
the  reign  of  Edward  II  (a.d.  1307—1313).  The 
text  has  been  prepared,  with  the  sanction  of  the 
lyords  Commissioners  of  His  Majesty's  Treasury,  by 
Mr.  W.  H.  B.  Bird,  B.A.,  and  the  Index  has  been 
compiled  by  Mr.   C.  T.  Flower,  M.A.,  of   this  office. 

H.    C.    MAXWEIyly    IvYTE. 
PubHc  Record  Office, 
May,    1910. 


(vii) 


CORRIGENDA. 


p.  240,  1.  3,     f(yr  Kynerdale  rectd  Kyuerdale. 
p.  249,  1.  33,  for  Kjmerdale  read  Kyuerdale. 


CORRIGENDA   TO   VOLUME   XL 

pp.  358,  453,  for  liancant  read  Lancaut. 


INDEX. 


p.  653,  insert  Harpson,  Herberdeston  [in  Portskewet,  co.  Mon- 
mouth], 479. 

p.  657,  Tit.  Herberdeston.     For  Herbertstown  read  Harpson. 

p.  657,  dele  Herbertstown,  Herberdeston  [?  in  Crumlin,  co.  Mon- 
mouth], 479. 

p.  674,  dele  Lancant.     See  Llanganten. 

p.  675,  insert  Lancaut  in  the  march  of  Wales  [co.  Gloucester], 
advowson  of,  358,  453. 

p.  681,  dele  Llanganten,  ?  Lancant  in  the  march  of  Wales  [co. 
Brecon],  advowson  of,  358,  453. 


i 


CALENDAE 


OF 


CLOSE    EOLLS. 


:38    EDWAKD    III. 


1364.  Membrane  33. 

Jan.  29.  To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Essex,  Norffolk  and  Suffolk. 
Westminster.  Order  to  cause  John  de  Playce,  son  and  heir  of  Ricliard  de  Playce 
tenant  in  chief,  to  have  seisin  of  the  lands  of  his  father  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  his  death  ;  as  the  said  John  has  proved  his  age 
before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  fealty,  and  respited  his 
homage  until  the  quinzaine  of  the  Purification  next. 

The   like,  mutatis    mutandis,  to  William  de   Otteford  escheator  in 
Cambridgeshire . 

Feb.  22.  To  Philip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  Herefordshire.  Order  to  deliver 
Westminster,  to  Roger  le  Forster,  son  of  Roger  Forster,  all  lands  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  his  said  father's  death,  together  with  the  issues  thereof 
taken  from  6  February  in  the  35th  year  of  the  reign,  if  not  yet  delivered 
to  him  ;  as  lately  on  the  finding  of  an  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's 
command  by  Thomas  Saundres  of  Neubold  late  escheator,  that  Roger 
Forster  at  his  death  held  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  17  acres  of  land  in 
Maurdyn  in  chief  by  the  service  of  holding  the  cord  to  measure  the 
castle  when  the  king  would  build  any  new  castle  in  the  march  of  Wales, 
and  divers  other  lands  of  others  than  the  king,  and  that  Roger  the  son 
is  his  next  heir  and  of  full  age  on  the  day  above  mentioned,  the  king 
took  his  homage  and  fealty,  and  ordered  the  late  escheator  to  take 
security  for  payment  of  his  relief,  and  cause  him  to  have  seisin  of  the 
lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  as  aforesaid. 

Feb.  24.  To  the  sheriff  of  Somerset  for  the  time  being.  Writ  de  intendendo, 
Westminster,  directing  him  of  the  issues  of  the  county  to  pay  to  the  abbot  of 
Glastonbury  and  his  successors  10  marks  every  year,  taking  his 
acquittance  for  every  payment,  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent 
granting  of  his  favour  to  the  said  abbot  and  to  his  successors  so  to 
have  that  sum  every  year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions 
during  the  life  of  William  la  Zouclie  a  monk  of  that  house. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Feb.  8.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.    Order,  upon  the 

Westminster,  petition  of  Thomas  Dautre  the  king's  Serjeant  at  arms,  to  stay  their 

demand  made  by  siimmons  of  the  exchequer  upon  the  said  Thomas 

for  405.  to  the  king's  use  or  to  render  account  of  the  same,  discharging 

E  1 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


13C4.  Membrane  33 — cont. 

him  thereof  ;  as  he  has  shewn  that  he  [had]  405.  at  the  receipt  of  the 
exchequer  as  a  prest  upon  his  wages  and  expenses  for  going  on  the 
king's  service  to  divers  nobles  toward  tlie  western  parts  with  divers 
letters  of  the  king's  privy  seal,  and  that  though  he  spent  that  sum 
and  more  on  his  journey,  the  treasurer  and  barons  are  demanding  the 
same  of  him  and  for  that  reason  distraining  him,  wherefore  he  has 
prayed  for  remedy.  By  C. 

Feb.  1.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order,  upon  the 

Westminster,  petition  of  Richard  Pompy,  to  view  a  tally  made  between  John  de 
Lincoln,  receiver  of  John  de  Wesenham  to  whom  the  king  committed 
the  keeping  of  the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric  of  Ely,  and  the  said 
Richard,  witnessing  the  payment  and  receipt  of  365.  \0d.,  to  call  the 
said  John  de  Wesenham  and  John  de  Lincoln  before  them,  and  if  by 
their  acknowledgment,  by  inquisition  or  otherwise  they  may  be  assured 
that  Richard  paid  the  said  sum  as  aforesaid  to  the  king's  use,  to  stay 
their  demand  made  upon  him  for  the  same  by  summons  of  the 
exchequer  and  discharge  him  thereof,  charging  the  said  John  and 
John  therewith,  and  respiting  the  said  demand  until  the  quinzaine 
of  Michaelmas  in  order  that  Richard  may  in  the  mean  time  sue  for  his 
discharge  if  he  shall  think  fit  ;  as  the  said  Richard  has  shewn  the 
king  that  he  was  bound  to  brother  Thomas  late  bishop  of  Ely  in 
36.9.  \0d.  arrears  of  his  account  for  the  time  he  was  reeve  of  the  said 
bishop's  manor  of  Hertherst,  that  after  the  temporalities,  goods  and 
chattels  of  the  said  bishop  and  the  debts  due  to  him  were  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  for  certain  felonies  and  trespasses  whereof  the  said 
bishop  was  indicted,  wherefore  the  said  Richard  was  distrained  to  pay 
that  money  to  the  king,  that  by  colour  thereof  he  paid  the  same  to 
John  de  Lincoln  as  by  the  said  tally  may  appear,  and  that  now  the  same 
sum  is  demanded  of  him  a  second  time  as  aforesaid. 


Feb.  5. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  30. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  12. 

Westminster. 


To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  stay 
their  demand  made  by  summons  of  the  exchequer  upon  Reynold  fitz 
Urse,  cardinal  of  the  church  of  Rome  and  dean  of  St.  Mary  Salisbury, 
for  23Z.  of  divers  forfeited  issues,  discharging  him  thereof  ;  as  the  king 
of  his  favour  has  pardoned  the  said  cardinal  that  sum. 

To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  stay 
their  demand  made  by  summons  of  the  exchequer  upon  the  prior  and 
convent  of  Bermondeseye  for  201.  I65.  9rZ.,  discharging  them  thereof  ; 
as  out  of  compassion  for  the  estate  of  the  said  priory  the  king  has 
pardoned  them  that  sum,  being  the  arrears  of  the  50L  which  the  prior 
thereof  lately  granted  the  king  of  his  priory  for  a  subsidy,  the  said 
priory  among  other  houses  of  the  alien  religions  of  the  power  of  France 
in  England  being  then  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  war  with 
France,  and  to  them  [committed]  on  16  June  in  the  14th  year  of  the 
reign. 

Membrane  32. 

To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Oxfordshire.  Order  to  deliver 
in  dower  to  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  Hugh  de  Plescy  tenant  in  chief 
the  knights'  fees  and  parts  of  fees  following,  which  the  king  has  assigned 
to  her  of  those  which  the  said  Hugh  held,  and  which  by  his  death 
were  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  namely  the  sixth  part  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  Cornwell  extended  at  I65.  8d.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's 


38  EDWARD  TTT. 


1JU)4.  Membrane  32 — cont. 

fee  in  Kurtlynton  and  Little  Bcreford  at  25.s.,  two    knijflits'  fees  in 
Duklynton    and   Kurtlynton   at   10/.,  the  ?n<)i(>ty  of  one  knight's  U)g 

in  Wygonton  at  50is'.,  one  knight's  foe  in  Ardcle  and  Northbroke  at 

1()0.«?.,  one  kniglit's  fee  in  SihiK'ford    at    lOO.s.,  one    kniglit's    fee  in 

r51o(ihesdon  at  lOO.s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Cesterton  at 

50,s".,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Crava  and  Banburgh  at 
25s.,  and  one  ktiight's  fee  at  Swerefoid  extended  at  10()<9.  a  year. 


Feb.  12.  To  William  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Cumberland.     Order  to  remove 

IVestiiiinstor.  tlie  king's  hand  and  not  to  inteinieddle  furtlior  with  two  messuases 
and  22  acres  of  land  of  Richard  de  Salkild  in  Agillonby,  delivering  to  the 
said  Richard  any  issues  thereof  taken  :  as  the  king  lately  ordered 
the  esc^heator  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  the  premises 
were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  William  de  Nessefeld  late  escheator, 
and  he  returned  that  the  late  escheator  delivered  the  same  to  hhn  by 
indenture,  alleging  that  they  were  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of 
trespasses  committed  by  William  son  of  Nicholas  le  Carter  who  held 
two  messuages  and  14  acres  thereof  of  the  king,  and  by  Thomas  Pesecod 
and  Richard  Pesecod  who  held  the  other  8  acres  of  the  king  by 
homage  by  reason  of  the  fees  which  were  of  Andrew  de  Harcla  late 
the  king's  enemy  and  rebel,  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  said 
Andrew's  forfeiture,  by  aliening  the  same  in  fee  to  Richard  de  Salkild 
without  the  king's  licence  ;  and  in  the  parliament  holden  at 
Westminster  in  the  first  year  of  the  reign  it  was  ordered  that  no  man 
should  thenceforth  be  impeached  by  reason  of  the  acquisition  of  lands 
held   of   the   king   as   of   honours. 

To  William  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Cumberland.  Order  to  remove 
the  king's  hand  and  not  to  intermeddle  further  with  a  messuage 
and  8  acres  of  land  of  Richard  son  of  Richard  de  Kirkelevyngton  in 
Kirkelevyngton,  delivering  to  the  said  Richard  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  the  king  lately  ordered  the  escheator  to  certify  the  cause 
wherefore  the  premises  were  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and 
he  returned  that  he  did  not  so  take  any  lands  of  the  said  Richard, 
but  that  William  de  Nessefeld  late  escheator  delivered  to  him  by 
indenture  a  messuage  and  8  acres  of  land  in  Kirkelevyngton 
alleging  that  they  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  a  trespass  of  Alan 
Collan,  tenant  thereof  in  chief  by  homage  by  reason  of  the  fees  which 
were  of  Walter  Corry  late  an  adherent  of  the  Scots  the  king's  enemies 
and  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  Walter's  forfeiture,  by  aliening 
the  same  in  fee  without  the  king's  licence  to  Richard  Dikson  ;  and 
in  the  parliament  holden  at  Westminster  in  the  first  year  of  the  reign 
it  was  ordei'ed  that  no  man  should  thereafter  be  impeached  by  reason 
of  the  acquisition  of  lands  held  of  the  king  as  of  honours. 

Feb.  10.  To  William  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Cumberland.  Order  to  deliver 
Westminster,  a  messuage  and  the  moiety  of  one  carucate  of  land  in  Corkeby,  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Adam  Ai-mestrange,  together 
with  the  issues  thereof  taken,  to  the  next  friend  of  the  said  Adam's 
heir  to  whom  the  heritage  may  not  descend,  to  be  kept  to  the 
said  heir's  use  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by 
William  de  Nessefeld  late  escheator,  that  Adam  at  his  death  held 
no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  whereby 
the  wardship  of  his  lands  ought  at  present  to  pertain  to  the  king,  but 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364.  -  Membrane  32 — cont. 

held  the  premises  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  the  king  as  of  the  fees 
of  the  manor  of  Corkeby,  which  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  the 
forfeiture  of  Andrew  de  Harcla  late  his  enemy  and  rebel,  by  the 
service  of  rendering  lib.  of  cumin  at  Martinmas  and  2d.  a  year  for 
all  services,  and  that  John  son  of  John  Armestrange  son  of  the 
said  Adam  is  his  next  heir,  and  of  the  age  of  8  years  and  upwards. 


Feb.  15. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  13. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  15. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  14. 
Westminster. 


March  5. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  31. 

To  the  guardians  of  the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric  of  Bath  and 
Wells.  Order  to  cause  what  is  due  for  Michaelmas  term  last  of  54L 
which  the  late  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells  in  his  life  time  rendered  yearly 
for  the  manor  of  Cheddre  and  Congresbury  co.  Somerset,  which  is 
in  the  king's  hand  and  in  their  keeping  among  other  the  said 
temporalities,  to  be  delivered  to  Eustace  de  Dabrichecourt,  and 
Elizabeth  his  wife  who  was  wife  of  John  earl  of  Kent  tenant  in  chief, 
or  to  the  attorney  of  the  said  Eustace,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as 
the  king  has  lately  assigned  that  yearly  farm  to  the  said  Elizabeth  in 
dower  among  other  lands  and  rents  of  those  which  Mere  of  the  said  earl. 

To  Lionel  duke  of  Clarence  the  king's  son  and  lieutenant  in  L-eland, 
or  to  his  representative.  Order,  at  the  request  of  brother  Thomas 
prior  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  Ireland  the  chancellor, 
to  cause  Henry  de  Leycestre  to  be  set  free  from  prison,  where  he  is 
detained  for  certain  contempts  it  is  said,  in  order  to  serve  the  king 
in  the  chancery  of  Ireland.  By  K. 

[Feeder  a.] 

To  the  chancellor  and  treasurer  of  Ireland.  Order,  if  assured  that 
the  clergy  and  commons  of  Ireland  have  granted  a  subsidy,  as  the  king 
has  learned,  for  expenses  of  the  prior  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John 
of  Jerusalem  in  Ireland  and  of  certain  others  who  lately  came  to  the 
king  in  England  to  inform  him  touching  the  state  of  Ireland,  to  cause 
the  said  subsidy  to  be  levied  without  delay  and  delivered  to  the  said 
prior  and  others  for  their  expenses,  causing  those  who  neglect  to  pay 
to  be  compelled,  if  need  be.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Ibid]. 

To  the  mayors  and  aldermen  of  Calais.  Order,  upon  the  petition 
of  Robert  de  Lincoln  clerk  and  William  Malwayn,  executors  of  John 
Malwayn,  to  cause  24L  to  be  paid  to  them  or  to  William  de  Kelleseye 
and  Thomas  de  Ikston  their  attorneys,  that  they  may  therewith 
make  another  pair  of  balances  with  the  weights  thereto  pertaining, 
as  commanded  by  the  council  ;  as  they  have  shewn  that  they,  by 
order  of  the  council,  delivered  to  the  mayors  and  aldermen  to  their 
use  for  weighing  wool  in  the  said  town  a  pair  of  balances  with  weights 
appointed  by  the  king  made  by  the  said  John  in  his  life  time  for 
weighing  wool  in  the  staple  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne,  and  have  prayed 
that  they  may  be  contented  of  the  costs  by  the  said  John  incurred 
in  regard  to  repairing  the  same,  which  amount  to  24?.  as  the  king  is 
credibly  informed. 

To  Walter  de  Dal  by  treasurer  of  Ireland.  Order  to  cause  200?. 
to  be  delivered  by  indenture  to  the  king's  son  Lionel  duke  of  Clarence, 
or  his  treasurer,  or  to  him  whom  he  shall  depute  to  bring  to  England 


38    EDWARD    III. 


6 


1304.  Membrane  31 — cont. 

the  Countess  of  March  Iiis  daughter,  her  damsels  and  others  of  her 
household  and  servants  who  arc  with  her  in  Ireland,  for  expenses  in 
bringing  them  to  England.  By  K. 

[Focdcra.'\ 

March  12.  To  John  do  Tye  escheator  in  Sussex.  Order  not  to  meddle 
Wostminstor.  fui'MuM'  \\  itli  a  mcssuage  called  Muchegrove  and  two  carucates  of  land 
in  Clophaiu  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Henry 
Fauconer,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  incpiisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  Henry  at  his  death 
held  the  premises  for  life  of  the  gift  of  John  Swyft.  parson  of  Clopham 
and  Richard  Tomys  parson  of  Sullyngton  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's 
court,  with  remainder  to  John  son.  of  the  said  Henry  and  to  Margaret 
his  wife  and  to  tlie  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  the  same  are  held 
of  another  than  the  king. 

Membrane  30. 

March  10.  To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Norfolk.  Order  not  to 
Westminster,  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Croweshall  with  the  appurtenances 
in  Attcl  burgh  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Thomas 
Moigne  knight,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Thomas 
at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of 
fee  Avhereby  the  wardship  of  his  lands  ought  at  present  to  pertain  to 
the  king,  but  held  the  said  manor  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  another 
than  the  king. 

Feb.  20.  To  John  de  Bekyngton  escheator  in  Somerset.  Order  not  to 
Westminster,  meddle  further  with  the  lands  of  Gilbert  de  Edyngdon,  which 
the  said  Gilbert  held  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  the  heirs 
of  John  de  Bello  Campo  tenant  in  chief,  and  which  by  his  death 
were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  ;  as  Thomas  son  and  heir  of  the  said 
Gilbert,  who  held  by  knight  service  of  the  said  heir,  a  minor  in  the  king's 
wardship,  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  lately 
granted  to  Queen  Philippa  the  wardship  of  all  the  lands  of  the  said 
John  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  heir,  with  the  knights'  fees  thereto 
belonging. 

Feb.  18.  To  Elizabeth  Mho  was  wife  of  Ralph  de  Middelneye.  Writ  de  inten- 
Westminster.  dendo,  directing  her  to  pay  to  Edmund  Chelreye  and  Robert  Cooke 
the  arrears  of  a  yearly  rent  of  18/.  and  one  pair  of  gilded  spurs  or  25. 
as  of  the  farm  of  the  manor  of  Pourestoke  from  the  death  of  the  said 
Ralph,  and  to  pay  the  same  to  them  henceforward  at  the  accustomed 
terms  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  heir  of  William  fitz  Waryn  of 
Whitynton  and  Amice  his  wife  tenants  in  chief ;  as  lately  by  letters 
patent  the  king  granted  to  Queen  Philippa  until  the  lawful  age  of  their 
heir  the  wardship  of  all  the  lands  of  the  said  "\\'^illiam  and  Amice, 
which  are  in  his  hand  by  their  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of 
the  said  heir,  with  the  issues  from  the  time  of  their  death ;  and  after  the 
said  queen  by  writing  indented  granted  and  sold  the  wardship  and 
issues  aforesaid  to  the  said  P]dmund  and  Robert,  and  on  2  July  in  the 
36th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  other  letters  patent  confirmed  her 
demise  thereof  ;  and  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's 
command  by  John  de  Bekynton  escheator  in  Dorset  after  the  death 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364.  Membrane  30 — cont. 

of  the  said  William,  that  at  his  death  he  held  the  said  yearly  rent 
to  him  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  by  the  king's  grant,  to  be 
taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  by  the  hands  of  the 
said  Ralph  as  of  the  farm  of  the  said  manor,  which  the  said  Elizabeth 
and  Ralph  jointly  held  and  the  king  commanded  to  be  delivered  to 
Elizabeth  after  the  death  of  Ralph. 

April  5.  To  Hugh  Fastolf   collector  of    the  customs  in  the  port  of    Great 

Westminster.  Jernemuth.  Order,  under  pain  of  forfeiture,  to  cause  all  the  waters 
called  creeks  {crykas)  and  the  privy  places  in  Norffolk  and  Suffolk  and  all 
other  ports  and  waters  therein  to  be  so  straitly  guarded  by  men  whom  he 
trusts  and  for  whom  he  will  answer  that  no  man  may  there  pass  out  of  the 
realm  but  [by]  special  licence  by  letters  or  writs  of  the  king,  which 
the  king  would  have  stayed  by  the  said  Hugh  before  such  passage, 
and  if  any  come  there  so  to  pass  without  licence  to  cause  them  to  be  taken 
and  arrested  with  their  goods,  horses  and  harness,  and  detained  under 
arrest  until  further  order,  certifying  in  chancery  their  names  and 
the  goods  so  arrested,  and  on  behalf  of  the  king  to  warn  the  guardians 
by  him  deputed  in  the  said  waters,  creeks,  ports  and  places  under  pain 
of  forfeiture  to  keep  diligent  guard  over  the  same  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  that  numbers  of  men,  for  lack  of  good  guard  of  the  passages 
there,  contrary  to  the  proclamation,  have  heretofore  in  the  said  creeks, 
etc.  crossed  the  sea  to  foreign  parts,  and  that  certain  persons  whom 
the  king  would  not  have  so  to  do  are  scheming  secretly  to  cross 
thereby.  By  K.  and  C. 

Membrane  29. 

Feb.  3.  To    William    de    Otteford    escheator    in    Cambridgeshire.      Order 

Westminster,  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and  not  to  intermeddle  further  with  the 
lands  of  the  prior  of  Bernewell  in  Okyngton,  delivering  to  the  said 
prior  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  lately  ordered  the 
escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  the  said  lands 
were  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  he  signified  that  he  so 
took  6  acres  of  land  of  the  said  prior  there  for  that  it  was  found  by 
inquisition,  before  him  taken,  that  without  the  king's  licence  the  prior 
appropriated  the  same  to  him  and  his  house  after  the  statute  of 
mortmain  ;  and  after  at  the  suit  of  the  prior,  alleging  that  Hugh 
Agace  held  that  land  of  him  by  fealty  and  the  service  of  rendering 
to  him  I2d.  a  year,  and  died  without  an  heir,  and  that  he  as  lord  of 
the  fee  entered  after  Hugh's  death  as  into  his  escheat,  as  lawful  was, 
and  not  otherwise,  and  praying  that  the  king's  hand  might  be  removed, 
the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  make  inquisition  touching  the 
premises  ;  and  by  inquisition  so  made  it  is  found  that  the  said  Hugh 
held  the  said  land  and  died  as  aforesaid,  that  the  prior  entered  after  his 
death  as  into  his  escheat,  namely  on  Monday  after  Midsummer  in  the 
23rd  year  of  the  reign,  and  that  the  prior  kept  the  land  in  his  hand 
for  that  cause  and  no  other  until  the  24th  year,  when  the  escheator 
took  the  same  into  the  king's  hand. 

Jan.  30.         To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  stay 

Westminster,  their  demand  upon  the  prior  and  convent    of    Bermondeseye    for 

201.   165.   9d.   arrears  of  a  subsidy  {as  above,  p.  2.)  By  K. 

Jan.  26.         To   the   treasurer    and   the   chamberlains.      Order   to   cause   such 

Westminster,  remuneration  to  be  given  of  the  treasury  to  the  king's  yeoman  John 

de  Ellerton,  his  Serjeant  at  arms,  over  and  above  his  usual  wages, 


38  EDWARD  III. 


18{)1.  Membrane  29 — cont. 

for  liis  oxpoiisos  for  (lie  time  \w  abode  by  tlio  kin;:;'s  coniinaiid  in 
his  scrvi<!c  at  WV.stiuiiister  in  the  hist  parhainent,  namely  10  weeks, 
as  they  may  be  assured  that  other  Serjeants  of  liis  rank  then  in  that 
service  had,  and  5  marks  for  two  horses  whicih  the  said  John  al]ef:;os 
that  he  lost  while  he  was  in  the  king's  service  for  arresting  of  ships  for 
the  passage  of  Kdward  prince  of  Aquitainc  and  Wales  to  Oascony,  if 
by  testimony  of  Ral])h  de  Kestevene  the  king's  clerk,  appointed  to  pay 
the  seamen  of  the  said  ships  their  wages,  they  shall  fhid  that  it  is  so. 

Feb.  8.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  th(;  exchequer.     Order,  upon  the 

Wostminstor.  petition  of  John  son  of  Henry  son  of  Himon  de  Thyrnesco  chaplain, 
to  stay  the  execution  of  a  writ  for  taking  the  goods  and  chattels  of 
the  said  John  into  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  an  outlawry,  restoring 
to  him  without  delay  any  so  taken  ;  as  by  the  complaint  of  the  said, 
chaplain  it  is  shewn  that,  though  he  was  not  outlawed  at  any  time 
by  any  ])roeess  before  the  king,  the  treasurer  and  barons  have 
commanded  his  goods  and  chattels  to  be  seized  into  the  king's  hand 
for  that  by  ignorance  of  the  writer  his  name  is  in  error  inserted  in  the 
estreats  sent  to  the  exchequer  of  the  names  of  persons  outlawed  before 
the  king,  and  that  by  colour  thereof  the  sherilf  of  Lincoln  is  troubling 
him  unlaw  fully,  ^vherefore  he  has  prayed  the  king  for  remedy  ;  and 
by  certificate  in  chancery  of  Henry  de  Grene  chief  justice  appointed  to 
hold  pleas  before  the  king,  herewith  enclosed,  it  is  found  that,  after 
search  of  the  rolls  and  other  memoranda  before  the  king,  no  outlawry 
is  found  to  have  been  published  against  the  said  John  for  that 
before  the  return  of  the  writ  of  exigents  against  him  he  rendered 
himself  to  the  Marshalsea  prison  and  made  fine  \\ith  the  king  for 
certain  trespasses  and  oppressions  presented  against  him,  as  appears 
by  the  rolls  of  fines  of  Easter  term  in  the  24th  year  of  the  reign,  and 
had  a  writ  of  supersedeas  to  the  said  sheriff. 

April  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  Warrewyk  for  the  time  being.     Order  to  cause  the 

Westminster,  arrears  of  I2d.  a  day  of  the  issues  of  that  county  to  be  paid  to  John 
atte  \^'ode,  and  the  same  sum  to  be  paid  him  henceforward,  as  it  used 
heretofore  to  be  paid  to  Edmund  de  Hoggeshagh  or  to  the  said  John, 
taking  his  acquittance;  as  on  12  March  in  the  35th  year  of  the 
reign  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  to  the  said  John  that  daily 
sum  of  the  king's  favour  for  his  good  service  in  abiding  ever  by  the 
king's  side,  to  be  taken  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  for  the  time  being 
in  the  same  manner  as  the  said  Edmund,  who  formerly  had  a  grant 
thereof  for  his  life  by  letters  patent,  given  up  in  chancery  and  cancelled, 
and  with  the  king's  assent  granted  the  same  to  tlie  said  John. 
Et  erat  patens. 

April  12.  To  William  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  not  to 
Westminster,  meddle  further  [with]  certain  tenements  in  Thornton  in  Lonesdale, 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Mariota  daughter  of  Robert 
son  of  Gregory  de  Burton,  and  by  reason  of  the  fees  which  were  of 
William  de  Coucy  in  Yorkshire  and  are  in  the  king's  hand,  delivering 
up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  Mariota,  who  died  on  3  December  in  the 
36th  j^ear  of  the  reign,  at  her  death  held  the  premises  to  herself  and 
her  heirs  as  of  the  manor  of  Coghill  as  of  the  fees  aforesaid  by  knight 
service  and  by  the  service  of  \2d.  a  year,  and  that  William  de  Burton 


8 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364. 


Membrane  29 — cont. 


her  cousin  is  her  next  heir  and  of  full  age  ;  and  on  21  May  in  the  29th 
year  of  the  reign  the  king  granted  the  said  manor  to  John  de 
Coupland  (now  deceased)  and  Joan  his  wife  (yet  living)  for  the  life  of 
either  of  them,  together  with  the  knights'  fees  thereto  belonging. 


Membrane  27.* 

April  18.  To  the  sheriffs,  mayors,  baihffs,  wardens  of  ports  and  other  seaward 
Westminster,  places,  and  other  the  king's  ministers  and  lieges.  Order,  upon  the  petition 
of  the  burgesses  of  the  town  of  Droghda  on  the  side  of  Uriel,  to  suffer 
them  without  let  to  carry  to  parts  over  sea  whither  they  will,  according 
to  the  king's  charter,  wool,  hides  and  other  their  merchandise 
cocketted  and  customed  in  Ireland  when  brought  to  any  port  of  the 
realm ;  as  by  colour  of  an  order  lately  made  by  the  king  that  all  wool,  hides 
and  other  merchandise  to  be  taken  to  foreign  parts  from  England, 
Ireland  and  Wales  should  be  brought  over  to  Calais  and  not  elsewhere, 
the  said  burgesses  are  compelled  to  take  their  merchandise,  namely 
old  (veteros)  cloths,  wool,  hides  and  other  small  wares  unlike  the 
merchandise  of  other  lands,  to  the  said  town  of  Calais  where  they  may 
hardly  be  sold  at  any  value,  nor  may  wine,  iron,  salt  or  other 
merchandise  suitable  for  Ireland  be  found,  and  when  the  said  burgesses 
and  the  merchants  have  there  sold  their  goods  at  low  price  they  have 
to  make  a  new  freight  to  England,  Gascony  and  elsewhere  to  get  goods 
suitable  for  Ireland,  and  so  must  pay  two  freights  instead  of  one 
to  their  manifest  impoverishment,  wherefore  they  have  prayed  a  remedy 
for  their  said  town  which  is  oppressed  by  various  misfortunes  ;  and 
in  consideration  of  the  services  of  the  said  burgesses  and  their  ancestors 
to  the  king  and  his  forefathers,  and  especially  for  the  defence  of  their 
town  and  the  neighbouring  parts  not  without  cost  and  pains  against 
attacks  of  the  Irish  and  other  the  king's  enemies,  striving 
to  invade  the  lands  of  the  king  and  of  his  lieges  in  Ireland,  and  to  rob 
and  destroy  his  people  there,  willing  to  shew  them  favour  that  they  may 
more  peaceably  mind  their  business  and  more  safely  keep  their  said 
town,  and  be  the  more  bound  so  to  do,  by  his  said  charter  the  king  has 
granted  to  the  said  burgesses  and  to  their  successors  that  they,  their 
heirs  and  successors,  may  carry  over,  as  they  used  to  do,  old  cloths, 
wool,  hides  and  all  other  wares  growing  and  arising  in  Ireland  (corn 
in  time  forbidden  excepted)  to  England,  Gascony  and  elsewhere  as 
they  shall  think  fit,  the  said  statute  and  order  notwithstanding. 

Et  erat  patens. 

The  citizens  and  merchants  of  the  city  of  Waterford  in  Ireland  have 
the  like  letters  patent. 

[Feeder  a. '] 

April  18.  To  John  de  Bekynton  escheator  in  Dorset.  Order  to  take  the  fealty 
Westminster,  of  Agnes  late  the  wife  of  John  Mautravers  knight  according  to  the 
form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  not  to  intermeddle  further  with  the 
manors  of  Estmordon,  Wodeton  in  Mersshwodevale,  Loders, 
Fromewhitefeld,  Lychet  Mautravers,  Langeton  in  Purbik  and 
Phelpeston,  two  thirds  of  the  manor  of  Upwymbourne,  one  virgate 
and  one  hide  of  land  in  Upwymbourne,  two  carucates  of  land,  10  acres 
of  meadow  and  10  acres  of  wood  in  Egreton  and  Wolcombe,  30  acres 
of  meadow  and  100  acres  of  pasture  at  la  More,  the  advowsons  of 

*  Membrane  28  is  blank. 


38  EDWARD  III.  9 


13()4.  Membrane  27 — cont. 

^^^)(let()n,  Fromc,  Lycliet,  Laiigotoii  aforesaid  and  of  one  medioty 
of  Upwymbounio,  takou  into  ilie  king's  hand  by  tlio  death  of  her 
said  husband,  dcHvering  to  the  said  Agnes  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  k^irned  by  in(iuisi(ion,  taken  by  the  eseheator,  tliat 
tlie  said  John  at  liis  death  liekl  no  hinds  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee,  but  liekl  the  preniises  jointly  with  Agnes  by  fine 
k'vicd  in  the  king's  court  with  liis  Hcence,  and  that  the  manor  of 
Kstmordon  is  liekl  in  chief  by  the  service  of  rendering  yearly  8,s.  at 
the  exchequer  by  the  hands  of  the  sherifif,  and  the  residue  of  others 
than  the  king. 

To  Philip  de  Luttcleye  cschcator  in  Gloucestershire.  Order  not  to 
meddle  further  with  the  manors  of  Kyngestanleye,  Wodechestre, 
Stonhouse  and  Shuvdyngton,  one  carucate  of  land,  12  acres  of  meadow 
and  1006'.  of  rent  in  Munchenhampton  and  the  advowson  of 
\\'odechestre  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John 
Mautravers  knight,  delivering  to  Agnes  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  eseheator, 
that  the  said  John  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief 
in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  premises  jointly  with  the  said 
Agnes  of  the  gift  of  Robert  de  Sambourne  chaplain,  Henry  de 
Tyngewyk  chaplain  and  John  de  Coston  chaplain  by  fine  levied  in  the 
king's  court  with  his  licence,  and  that  the  manor  of  Kyngestanleye  is 
held  in  chief  by  knight  service,  the  residue  of  the  premises  of  others 
than  the  king  ;    and  the  king  has  taken  the  fealty  of  Agnes. 

To  John  de  Evesham  eseheator  in  Wilts.  Like  order  in  regard  to 
the  manors  of  Sharnton,  Codeford,  Boyton  and  Gorton,  a  moiety  of 
the  manor  of  Stapelford  and  the  advowson  of  Boyton ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  eseheator,  that  John  Mautravers 
knight  held  the  same  jointly  with  Agnes  late  his  wife,  and  that  the 
manors  of  Sharnton  and  Godeford  and  the  said  moiety  arc  held  in  chief 
by  knight  service,  the  manors  of  Boyton  and  Gorton  of  others  than  the 
king  ;   and  the  king  has  taken  the  fealty  of  the  said  Agnes. 

To  Philip  de  Luttcleye  eseheator  in  Gloucestershire.  Order  to  take 
of  Agnes  who  was  wife  of  John  Mautravers  knight  tenant  in  chief 
an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to 
assign  her  dower  of  the  lands  of  her  said  husband  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  his  death,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be 
enrolled  in  chancery. 

April  20.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order,  upon  the 
Westminster,  petition  of  Thomas  de  Brantyngham  the  king's  clerk,  treasurer  of 
Galais,  if  assured  by  witness  of  Henry  Lescrope  controller  of  the  said 
Thomas  and  by  oath  of  Thomasthatthefacts  therein  stated  are  true,  to 
cause  him  to  have  allowance  in  his  account  of  the  wine  and  honey 
spent  and  lost ;  as  he  has  shewn  the  king  that  one  tun  of  corrupt 
wine  in  Galais  castle,  one  pipe  of  honey  in  Hammes  castle  and  one 
pipe  of  honey  in  Sandgate  castle,  which  he  took  over  from  John 
de  Middelton  late  keeper  of  the  king's  victuals  there,  are  without 
fault  of  his  spoiled  and  lost  {aniissa  in  corisona),  and  that  one  pipe 
of  Spanish  wine  in  Galais  castle  and  three  pipes  of  honey  in  Gynes 
castle  are  spent  in  ullage  and  spoiled  and  lost.  By  G. 


10 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364.  Membrane  27 — cont. 

April  24.         Order  to  the  sheriflf  of  Norfolk  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Thomas  de  Byntre,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  credible  witness,  wherefore  he  has  removed  him  from 
office. 

Membrane  26. 

May  7.  To  John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Kent.     Order  to  take  of  Katherine 

Westminster,  who  was  "v^ife  of  Ralph  de  Frenyngham  knight  tenant  in  chief  an  oath 

that  she  will  not   marry   without    the   king's   licence,   and    to   assign 

her  dower  of   her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into   the    king's   hand 

by  his  death,  sending  the  assignment  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

April  26.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Wilts  to  elect  two  vcrdcrers  in  the  forest 
Westminster,  of  Bradennc  instead  of  Roger  Warre  and  John  Wybard,   who  are 
dead. 


Membrane  25. 

April  26.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order,  upon  the 
Westminster,  petition  of  William  de  Shrosbury  the  king's  clerk,  late  controller  of 
the  expenses  of  the  household,  to  stay  their  demand  upon  him  made  by 
summons  of  the  exchequer  for  payment  of  26L  6.s.  lllf?.,  discharging 
him  thereof  ;  as  the  said  William  has  shewn  that  he  abode  at  London 
225  days  upon  arraying  the  account  of  William  de  Retford  then  treasurer 
of  the  household,  and  had  no  payment  for  his  wages  or  expenses  for 
that  time,  praying  in  recompense  pardon  of  the  sum  aforesaid  which 
is  demanded  of  him  for  arrears  of  his  account  in  the  wardrobe 
touching  his  wages  and  gowns ;  and  for  good  service  the  king  of  his 
favour  has  pardoned  him  the  same.  By  C. 

April  24.  To  Walter  de  Dalby  the  king's  clerk,  receiver  of  moneys  for  the  wages 
Westminster,  of  men  at  arms,  hobblers  and  archers  appointed  to  abide  in  Ireland  on 
the  king's  service  for  furtherance  of  the  Avar.  Order,  of  the  king's 
monej^s  reserved  for  the  said  war,  by  indenture  between  the  receiver 
and  Lionel  duke  of  Clarence  the  king's  son  and  lieutenant  in  Ireland 
or  the  said  duke's  treasurer,  to  pay  to  the  said  duke  or  to  his  treasurer 
\3s.  M.  a  day  for  the  said  duke's  A>ages  from  12  November  in  the 
36th  year  of  the  reign,  on  A\hich  day  the  king  advanced  him  to  be 
duke,  for  so  long  as  he  has  been  in  Ireland  or  shall  there  abide 
hereafter  for  furtherance  of  the  weiT.  By  K. 

[FcBdcra.] 

April  15.  To  the  sheriff  of  Bedford  and  Bukingham  for  the  time  being.  Order 
Westminster,  to  pay  to  John  de  Watford  the  arrears  of  i^d.  a  day  from  10  June  last, 
and  that  sum  henceforward  during  his  life,  taking  his  acquittance, 
according  to  the  king's  letters  patent  of  the  date  above  mentioned, 
granting  the  said  John,  for  good  service,  4^c?.  a  day  of  the  issues  of  the 
said  counties  for  life  or  until  other  order  should  be  taken  for  his  estate. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Membrane  24. 

April  6.         To  John  Notte  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator  therein. 

Westminster.  Order  to  cause  dower  to  be  assigned  to  John    de    Stokenbury    and 

Idonea  his  wife,  late  the  wife  of  John    Jordan,    of    certain    shops, 

tenements  and  rents  in  the  said  city  whereof  John  Jordan  was  seised 


38  EDWARD  III. 


11 


1304.  Membrane  24 — cont. 

in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  on  the  day  of  his  inarriaf^e  and  lonfr  after, 
giving  information  of  the  assignment  in  eliancery  under  his  seal 
that  it  may  there  be  enrolled  :  as  lately  at  the  suit  of  the  said  John  de 
Stokenbury  and  Idonea,  praying  for  her  dower  of  lands  and  rents  in 
the  said  city  which  John  Jordan  held  as  aforesaid  and  gave  to  the 
king,  the  king  by  writ  ordered  the  mayor  to  make  inquisition  touc^hing 
the  premises,  and  by  inquisition  so  made  it  is  found  that  John  Jordan 
\\hen  he  espoused  the  said  Idonea  and  long  after  was  seised  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee  of  a  tenement  in  the  lane  of  (St.  Martin  Orgar 
of  the  clear  yearly  value  of  755.  over  and  above  reprises  and  rents 
resolute,  a  tenement  in  Puddynglane  value  26s.  Sd.,  a  shop  in 
lirugestrete  value  Ms.,  another  shop  in  that  street  value  266'.  Hd., 
a  shop  now  ]\eld  by  John  de  Kiiton  value  IS.s-.,  and  two  tenements 
and  six  shops  with  \\harfage  at  Billingesgate  value  191.  5s.  Sd.,  and 
that  the  same  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  his  feoffment. 

April  14.         To   Walter   de   Kelby   escheator  in   Lincolnshire.     Order    not    to 
Eltham.      distrain  Philip  son  and  heir  of  Philip  le  Despenser  tenant  in    chief 
for  his  homage,  releasing  any  distraint  made  ;    as  the  said  Philip  has 
done  homage  to  the  king  for  the  lands  of  his  said  father. 

By  p.s.  [20293.] 

Membrane  23. 

May  3.  To    John    de    Tye    escheator    in    Kent.      Order    not    to    meddle 

Westminster,  further  with  certain  tenements  in  Maydestan  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  Ralph  de  Frenyngham  knight,  delivering  to 
Katherine  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Ralph 
at  his  death  held  the  premises  jointly  with  the  said  Katherine  of  the 
gift  of  John  de  Frenyngham  his  father,  and  that  they  are  held  of  others 
than  the  king. 

May  4.  To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Wilts.     Order  to  take  the  fealty  of 

Westminster.  Juliana  late  the  wife  of  John  Mauduyt  according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule 
enclosed,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  AW^rmenstre, 
a  messuage,  two  carucates  of  land,  20  acres  of  meadow,  100  acres 
of  wood  and  100s.  of  rent  in  Westbury  and  the  advowson  of  Westbury 
chapel  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  the  said  John,  deliver- 
ing to  the  said  Juliana  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  John  at  his  death  held  no 
lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee.,  but  held  the 
premises  jointly  with  Juliana  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his 
licence,  and  that  the  same  arc  held  in  chief  by  knight  service. 


May  10.  To  the  collectors  of  the  pett}''  custom  in  the  port  of  Great  Jernemuth 
Westminster,  and  in  other  ports  and  places  in  Norff oik,  Suffolk  and  Essex,  and  to  the 
searchers  of  forfeitures  there  or  to  their  deputies.  Order  to  deliver 
to  Nicholas  de  Balston  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull  master  thereof  the 
ship  called  '  la  Hilde  '  of  Hull  with  all  her  gear,  two  pockets  of  wool 
price  26s.  8d.,  99  woolfells  price  16s.  6d.,  and  a  load  of  brushwood 
price  IBs.  therein  found,  to  make  his  advantage  thereof  ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  at  his  command  by  John  de  Sutton 
the  elder,  Robert  de  Naylynghurst  and  the  sheriff  of  Essex,  that  the 
said  ship  lately  laded  with  the  said  brushwood  at  Manytre  co.  Essex, 


12  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364.  Membrane  23 — cont. 

while  at  sea  sailing  for  the  port  of  Kyngneston  upon  Hull,  was  arrested 
by  Richard  de  Haverlond  searcher  of  forfeitures  deputed  by  the  said 
collectors,  for  that  among  other  goods  therein  found  were  the  wool 
and  woolfells  aforesaid  uncustomed,  that  without  the  knowledge  of  the 
said  master  the  same  were  put  there  by  Robert  de  Burton  of  Holdernesse 
and  Nicholas  Wymark  of  Rouclif  co.  York,  and  that  the  said  Nicholas 
knew  thereof  one  day  before  the  arrest,  and  would  have  sailed  with  the 
same  to  his  own  country  ;  and  for  101.  by  the  said  master  paid,  the 
king  of  his  favour  has  restored  to  him  the  ship,  gear  and  goods, 
though  forfeit  for  the   cause  aforesaid.         By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

May  5.  To  William  de  Otteford  escheator  in  Bedfordshire.     Order  to  take 

Westminster,  the  fealties  of  Margaret  and  Agnes  daughters  of  Alexander  de 
Somersham  according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  to  make  a 
partition  in  their  presence,  if  they  choose  to  attend,  of  14  acres  of  land 
in  Sutton  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  said  Alexander's  death, 
and  to  cause  them  to  have  seisin  of  their  respective  purparties,  sending 
the  partition  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  Alexander  at 
his  death  held  the  premises  in  chief  by  knight  service,  that  the  said 
Margaret  and  Agnes  are  his  next  heirs,  Margaret  aged  24  years  and 
Agnes  22  years  and  upwards,  and  that  the  escheators  for  the  time 
being  have  made  answer  for  the  issues  and  jirofits  thereof  since  the 
death  of  Alexander,  who  died  14  February  in  the  25th  year  of 
reign,  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  heirs,  being  then  within 
age  ;  and  for  13s.  4rf.  for  their  marriages  paid  by  the  said  heirs,  who 
were  not  married  at  their  father's  death,  the  king  has  since  given 
them  licence  to  marry  whom  they  will,  and  has  respited  their  homage 
until  Michaelmas  next. 

Membrane  22. 

June  28.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  stay 
Westminster,  their  demand  made  by  summons  of  the  exchequer  upon  John  de 
Stodeye  and  John  Pyel  for  the  sums  to  them  delivered  by  the  sheriff s 
of  London  at  the  king's  command  of  the  goods  and  debts  of  Thomas 
de  Notyngham  and  Bartholomew  Chaungeour  of  London,  and  by  them 
received,  or  for  an  account  thereof,  dischargiiig  as  Avell  the  mayor  and 
sheriffs  of  London  as  the  said  John  and  John  as  well  of  2,000Z. 
wherein  the  said  Thomas  and  Bartholomew  were  bound  to  the  king  as 
of  the  sums  so  received  to  that  amount ;  as  lately  the  king  by  writ 
ordered  the  said  mayor  and  sheriffs  to  make  inquisition  what  goods 
and  chattels  the  said  Thomas  and  Bartholomew  had  in  that  city  and 
the  suburbs  at  the  time  they  became  the  king's  debtors,  and  to  cause 
the  same  to  be  seized  into  the  king's  hand  and  safe  kept  until  the  king 
should  be  contented  of  the  said  sum,  for  that  Tliomas  and  Bartholomew 
were  bound  to  him  as  aforesaid,  and  Thomas  was  dead,  and 
Bartholomew  eloigned  himself  from  the  said  city  ;  and  after,  upon 
information  that  great  number  of  debts  are  due  to  Thomas  and 
Bartholomew  \>y  merchants  and  others  of  the  said  county  [sic),  and  that 
certain  merchants  of  the  said  city  to  whom  Thomas  and  Bartliolomew 
were  bound  in  divers  debts  have  received  more  than  their  due,  seeing 
that  such  debts  and  over  payments  ought  to  pertain  to  the  king  in 
part  of  the  said  sum,  on  16th  March  in  the  36th  year  of  his  reign  the  king 
by  another  writ  ordered  the  said  mayor  and  sheriffs  to  make  inquisition 


38    EDWARD    III.  J. 3 


13G4.  Membrane  22 — cont. 

\\\\^i  (l(4)ts  woro  duo  to  Tliomas  aiul  Kaillioloniow  in  tlio  said  oily  and 
by  w  hoin,  wlio  had  rocoivrd  more  than  llicir  (hie  sinci^  ThonuiH  and 
liarllioloniew  hooanio  tho  kin<i;'s  debtors,  w  iiat  snms  and  in  what 
manner,  to  cause  all  such  to  come  befoi-e  the  said  mayor  and  sherifTs 
to  answer  touehin<;c  the  ])reinises,  to  h(\ir  reasons  on  eitlier  side,  and 
if  by  (bie  process  befoie  llu>ni  it  sliould  b(>  found  that  any  such  (U'bfs 
were  due  or  over  payments  made,  to  cause  the  same  to  be  levied  of  the 
d(^btors  or  icceivers  then'of,  and  deliveied  to  the  said  John  and  John, 
mainpernors  towards  the  king  of  Thomas  and  J3arthoIomew  for  the 
said  sum,  up  to  the  amount  of  2,000/.,  and  the  residue  (if  any)  to  bo 
safe  kept  until  further  order  ;  and  now  on  behalf  of  John  and  John 
the  king  has  learned  that,  though  on  13  December  in  the  35th  year 
of  the  reign  they  made  to  the  king  a  recognisance  for  2,000/.  for  tho 
said  sum  to  to  be  paid  them,  and  have  paid  the  king  that  sum,  the 
treasurer  and  barons  are  unlawfully  distraining  them,  to  render  an 
account  at  the  exchequer  for  the  debts  and  sums  so  to  be  paid  them 
by  virtue  of  the  said  writ,  wherefore  they  have  prayed  tho  king  for 
remedy  ;  and  the  king  is  assured  by  inspection  of  the  rolls  of  chancery 
that  the  said  John  and  John,  who  became  mainpernors  for  Thomas 
and  Bartholomew"  for  payment  to  the  king  of  the  2,000/.  wherein 
they  were  to  him  bound,  on  the  date  named  made  a  recognisance 
for  payment  of  that  sum  at  set  terms,  and  paid  the  same,  by  colour 
whereof  their  recognisance  was  cancelled  ;  and  it  is  not  lawful  nor 
reasonable  that  John  and  Jolm,  after  payment  thereof,  should  be 
charged  toward  the  king  with  the  sums  which  the  king  commanded 
the  said  mayor  and  sheriffs  to  deliver  to  them  and  which  they  received 
as  aforesaid,  nor  that  the  king  should  have  as  well  tho  2,000/.  of  the 
said  mainpernors  and  also  the  goods  and  debts  aforesaid  to  the  said 
mainpernors  delivered  at  his  command,  or  anything  thereof  over  and 
above   the   said   sum. 

May  28.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order,  upon  the 
Westminster,  petition  of  John  de  Eylesford,  to  suffer  him  to  have  and  hold  the 
m.anors  of  Boulewas  and  Isenbrugge  together  with  the  issues  thereof 
from  the  time  they  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  according  to 
his  letters  patent,  staying  any  demand  or  distraint  upon  the  said  John 
made  to  the  king's  use  for  an  account  and  for  the  said  issues,  and 
discharging  him  tliereof  ;  as  at  the  suit  of  the  said  John  praying  for 
restitution  of  the  said  manors,  which  by  process  in  the  king's 
court  against  John  son  and  heir  of  John  do  Boulewas  and  Thomas 
Cotes  ^^•ere  delivered  to  John  de  Burleye  knight,  Adam  Esgar  clerk, 
Richard  de  Frome  and  Thomas  de  Barre  to  hold  as  their  freehold 
until  contented  of  1,000/.,  by  reason  of  a  recognisance  for  that  sum 
made  by  John  de  Boulewas  knight  deceased  to  the  said  John  de 
Burleye,  Adam,  Richard  and  Thomas,  and  they  after  demised  the  same 
to  Parnell  who  was  wife  of  the  said  John  de  Boulewas  to  hold  in  form 
aforesaid,  and  she  granted  her  estate  therein  to  the  said  John  do 
Eylesford,  and  as  the  said  manors,  Avhich  are  held  in  chief,  are  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  an  alienation  tliereof  made  without 
the  king's  licence  to  Thomas  de  Cotes  by  the  said  John  son  of  John  do 
Boulewas,  the  king  on  26  October  in  the  36th  year  of  his  reign,  willing 
to  deal  generously  with  John  de  Eylesford  by  reason  of  his  goop 
service,  granted  the  said  manors  to  him  together  with  the  issues  afore- 
said to  hold  without  rendering  anything  to  the  king  from  the  time 


14 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364.  Membrane  22 — cont. 

they  were  so  taken  so  long  as  they  shall  remain  in  his  hand,  saving  to 
the  king  the  fine  which  shall  be  made  for  the  said  trespass,  which  fine 
being  made  the  king's  will  is  that  they  shall  be  delivered  to  John  de 
Eylesford  to  hold  as  he  held  them  before  they  were  taken  into  the 
king's  hand. 

May  30.  To  the  same.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  de  Eylesford,  to 
Westminster,  stay  their  demand  made  by  summons  of  the  exchequer  in  the  manors 
of  Boulewas  and  Isenbrugge  for  payment  of  the  relief  of  John  son 
of  John  de  Boulewas,  while  the  same  are  in  the  king's  hand  and  in 
the  keeping  of  John  de  Eylesford,  discharging  him  thereof  ;  as  at 
the  suit  of  John  de  Eylesford  etc.  (as  above)  ;  and  now  John  de 
Eylesford  has  informed  the  king  that  he  is  distrained  therein  for  the 
relief  of  the  said  John  son  of  John  due  by  reason  of  the  homage  and 
fealty  which  he  has  performed  to  the  king  at  the  restitution  to  him 
of  the  manors  and  lands  which  John  de  Boulewas  his  father  held  in 
chief,  and  which  by  his  deatli  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  ;  and 
it  is  not  lawful  nor  reasonable  that  such  relief  should  be  levied  of  the 
said  manors  while  they  are  in  the  king's  hand,  though  John  de 
Eylesford  has  the  keeping  thereof  by  the  king's  grant.  Proviso  that 
the  said  relief  be  levied  of  other  lands  which  were  of  John  son  of 
John  on  the  day  his  homage  was  paid,  and  the  fine  aforesaid  of  the  said 
manors  when  they  shall  be  put  out  of  tlie  king's  hands. 

April  30.  To  Robert  de  Pleseleye,  Walter  de  Aldebury,  Amaury  de  Shirland 
Westminster,  and  John  de  Blokeley  appointed  to  hear  and  determine  an  account  of 
Walter  de  Caumpeden,  late  receiver  of  the  rents,  issues  and  profits 
of  the  lands  of  the  king's  sons  John  then  earl  of  Richemond  now  duke 
of  Lancastre  and  Edmund  of  Langeleye  now  earl  of  Cantebrigge.  of 
those  rents,  issues  and  profits  and  of  all  other  sums  of  money,  jewels, 
victuals  and  other  things  by  him  received  as  well  for  the  household 
as  for  other  needs  of  the  king's  said  sons.  Order  to  take  of  the  said 
Walter  an  oath  concerning  all  payments  and  expenses  which  they 
may  be  assured  that  he  has  made,  over  and  above  those  controlled 
and  witnessed  by  Robert  de  Herle,  late  steward  of  the  said  lands  and 
overseer  and  controller  of  the  payments  and  expenses  of  the  households 
etc.  of  the  king's  said  sons,  to  allow  the  same,  and  proceed  to  a  final 
issue  of  the  account  aforesaid  ;  as  the  king  lately  commanded  the 
said  Robert  de  Herle  to  have  in  chancery  all  his  rolls,  controlments, 
evidences  and  memoranda  for  the  time  he  was  steward,  overseer 
and  controller,  to  be  by  the  king  delivered  to  Robert  de  Pleseleye 
and  his  fellows,  and  he  delivered  the  same  in  chancery,  and  the  king 
sent  them  under  seal,  commanding  that  the  said  Robert  and  his 
fellows  should  inspect  and  examine  them  and  proceed  further  as  the 
nature  of  the  account  requires,  the  absence  of  Robert  de  Herle 
notwithstanding  ;  and  now  the  king  has  learned  that  certain  payments 
made  by  the  said  Walter  were  not  controlled,  for  that  Robert  de  Herle 
was  sent  over  to  Brittany  on  the  king's  .service,  [wherefore]  they  have 
deferred  the  audit  of  the  said  account.  By  K.  and  C. 

July  12.  To  Lionel  duke  of  Clarence  the  king's  son  and  lieutenant  in  Ireland. 

Westminster.  Order  to  restore  to  William  de  Morle  or  to  his  attorney  the  office  of 

the  marshalsea  of  Ireland,  if  it  is  in  the  king's  hand  and  in  the  keeping 

of  Thomas  de  Stafford  for  the  cause  hereinafter  mentioned,  suffering 

the  said  William  by  himself  or  his  attorney  to  exercise  the  same  as 


38  EDWARD  III.  15 


13G4.  Membrane  22 — cont. 

liorotoforc,  the  king's  letters  patent  to  the  said  Thomas  notwith- 
statuliiiif ;  as  the  kinoj  lately  eomtnitled  to  Thomas  the  said  ofhce  whicii 
is  taken  into  the  kinjjf's  hand  for  t iiat  no  man  abode  thereui)on  as  it  was 
said  ;  hnt  the  said  \Villiam  marshal  of  Ireland  had  deputed  John  do 
Naunton  to  keep  the  oHiec^  and  to  do  what  pertained  tluTeto,  and  the 
said  Joim  abode  continually  in  Ireland  upon  the  ruling  thereof  until 
it  was  so  taken,  and  died  on  his  return  to  I^^ngland  to  prosceutc  the 
business,  as  is  witnessed  ])efor(>  tlu^  king,  wherefore  the  king  revokes  tlio 
said  letters  patent,  and  has  restored  the  ofhce  to  the  said  William, 

By  C. 


Juh^   IS.  To  Nicholas  de  Louthc  the  king's  clerk,  receiver  of  the  issues  of  his 

Westminster,  lordships  of  J'onthieu  and  Montreuil.  Order  to  cause  200  maiks 
a  year  for  his  wages  and  fees  from  26  June  last  so  long  as  he  shall  stand 
in  that  office  to  be  paid  to  Nicholas  de  Lovayne,  whom  the  king  on 
that  day  by  letters  j)atent  appointed  steward  of  those  lordships  during 
pleasure,  taking  his  acquittance  for  every  payment.  By  K. 

June  13.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.  Order  to  survey  the  chapel,  bridge  and 
Westminster,  gate  of  the  fortalice  of  Haywra  in  the  forest  of  Knaresburgli,  and 
of  the  issues  of  his  bailiwick  to  cause  all  defects  therein  to  be  repaired 
by  view  and  testimony  of  the  constable  of  Knaresburgh  castle  or  of 
William  de  Nessefeld  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  that  such  defects 
are  many.  By  K. 

Membrane  21. 

May  5.  To  Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.     Order  to  cause 

Westminster.  Nicholas  son  and  heir  of  Isabel  who  was  wife  of  George  de  Monboucher 
tenant  in  chief  to  have  seisin  of  the  lands  of  his  said  mother  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  her  death  ;  as  the  said  Nicholas  has  proved  his 
age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and 
fealty.  By  p.s. 

To    William    de    Frothele3^e    escheator    in    Notinghamshire.     Like 
order,  as  the  said  Nicholas  has  proved  his  age  before  Walter  de  Kelby. 

By  p.s.  (the  same  writ). 

April  8.  To  Lionel  duke  of  Clarence  the  king's  son  and  lieutenant  in  Ireland, 

Westminster,  the  chancellor  and  treasurer  in  Ireland,  and  the  barons  of  the 
exchequer  there.  Order  to  suffer  Queen  Philippa  to  have  and  hold 
freely  without  let,  quit  of  a  subsidy  of  their  lands  in  Ireland  granted 
by  the  lords  of  lands  in  Ireland  dwelling  in  England,  the  lands 
which  were  of  John  de  Carreu,  John  Darcy  and  John  Fitz 
Wauter  and  every  of  them  according  to  the  king's  grant,  and 
to  cause  all  issues  and  profits  thereof  taken  from  the  deaths 
of  the  said  tenants  to  be  restored  to  her,  the  grant  of  the 
said  subsidy  notwithstanding  ;  as  by  divers  letters  patent  the  king 
has  granted  her  the  lordship  of  their  lands,  as  well  in  England  as  in 
Ireland,  which  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the 
heirs,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  arising,  until  the  lawful  age  of 
the  said  heirs  ;  and  now  the  queen  has  informed  the  king  that,  by  reason 
of  the  grant  of  the  said  subsidy  for  two  years  for  furtherance  of  the 
war  in  Ireland  and  defence  of  their  lands,  all  the  said  issues  and  profits 
of  the  said  lands  in  her  wardship  have  been  levied,  wherefore  she  has 
prayed  for  remedy.  By  K. 


16 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364.  Membrane  21 — cont. 

April  16.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Notingham  to  cause  a  verderer  of  the  forest 
Westminster,  of  Shirewode  to  be  elected  instead  of  John  Jace,  who  is  dead. 

May  4.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  York  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  Thomas  de  Reresby  knight,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

May  10.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Robert  de  Sancto  Paulo,  who  is  aged  and  infirm. 

May  29.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Berks  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 
Westminster,  of  John  de  Etton,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

June  10.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Warrewyk  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  John  Bardulf,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 


Membrane  20. 

June  13.  To  Philip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  Herefordshire  and  the  march 
Westminster,  of  Wales  adjoining.  Order  to  cause  Leonard  son  and  heir  of  John  de 
Carreii  knight,  who  held  by  knight  service  of  the  heir  of  Lawrence  de 
Hastynges  earl  of  Pembroke  tenant  in  chief,  a  minor  in  the  king's 
wardship,  to  have  seisin  of  the  lands  of  his  said  father  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  his  death  ;  as  the  said  Leonard  has  proved  his 
age  before  Thomas  Cheyne  escheator  in  Devon,  and  the  king  has  taken 
his  fealty. 

To  Thomas  Cheyne  escheator  in  Devon.  Order  not  to  meddle 
further  with  divers  manors  and  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
the  death  of  John  de  Carreu  knight,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  the  said  John  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in 
chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  divers  manors  and  lands  of 
others  than  the  king. 

May  6.  To  the  collectors  of  the  petty  custom  in  the  port  of  London.     Order, 

Westminster,  upon  the  petition  of  James  Dirkeson  of  Holand,  to  suffer  him  without 
let  to  buy  in  the  realm  woollen  cloths  to  the  value  of  the  eels  he  has 
sold  in  the  city  of  London,  to  lade  the  same  in  that  port  and  take  them 
to  Holand  after  paying  the  customs  due  thereon,  the  proclamations 
and  orders  to  the  contrary  not\nthstanding  ;  as  he  has  shewn  that  he 
brought  eels  in  great  number  from  Holand  to  the  said  city  and  there 
sold  them,  and  may  not  take  his  money  to  his  own  parts  because  of 
the  prohibitions  by  the  king  made,  wherefore  he  has  prayed  for 
licence  to  buy  cloth  ;  and  the  king  would  cherish  the  friendship 
between  himself  and  the  men  of  Holand.  By  C. 

[Foedera.'] 

Membrane  19. 

June  1.  To  Walter  de    Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.     Order  not    to 

Westminster,  meddle    further    with   the    lands    which    Roger    Lisle   at    his   death 

held  of  the  heir  of  Henry  de  Bello  Monte  tenant  in  chief,  a  minor  in 

the  king's  wardship,  and  which  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the 

nonage  of  the  said  heir  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  are  in  his 


38  EDWARD  III. 


17 


1864.  Memhrnne  19 — cont. 

hand  ;  as  John  son  and  heir  of  the  said  Roger,  who  held  of  the  said  heir 
by  knight  service,  has  ])roved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  on 
proof  of  the  age  of  Henry  son  and  iieir  of  the  said  Henry  the  king 
lately  took  his  homage  for  the  lands  of  his  said  father,  and  commanded 
livery  thereof  to  be  given  him. 

June  6.  To  William  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  to  take  of 

Westminstpr.  Maigaret  who  was  wife  of  Johii  de  Bruni\e,  tenant  by  knight  service 
of  tlie  king  as  of  the  lands  which  were  of  William  do  Karliolo  late 
<an  adherent  of  the  Scots  the  king's  enemies  and  are  in  the  king's  hand 
as  an  escheat  by  reason  of  his  foifeiture,  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry 
without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  cause  dower  to  be  assigned  her 
of  the  lands  which  her  said  husband  so  held  and  which  by  his  death  are 
taken  into  the  king's  hand,  in  pre.scnce  of  John  de  ShelTeld  knight  to 
whom  the  king  lias  committed  the  wardship  of  two  thirds  thereof 
until  the  lawful  age  of  the  heir,  if  he  choose  to  attend,  sending  the 
assigimient  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

April  24.  To  William  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  to  restore 
Wcstniins(or.  to  the  abbot  of  Kirkestall  the  lands  of  his  abbey  in  Alwaldeley  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  William  de  Nessefeld  late  escheator,  together 
\\'\i\\  the  issues  thereof,  saving  to  the  king  the  services  and  rents 
hereinafter  mentioned,  if  by  right  due  to  him  ;  as  the  king  lately 
ordered  the  late  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  the 
said  lands  wqtq.  so  taken,  and  he  certified  that  he  found  by  inquisition, 
before  him  taken  of  his  office,  that  the  late  abbot  held  to  him  and  his 
successors  a  messuage,  four  bovatcs  of  land  and  4  acres  of  meadow 
in  Alwaldeley  (containing  in  all  a  messuage  and  four  bovates  of 
land)  of  John  de  Insula  lord  of  the  manor  of  Harewode  by  knight 
service  and  by  the  service  of  rendering  to  the  said  John  and  his  heirs 
2d.  a  year  to  the  fines  of  the  king's  wapentake  of  Shirak,  that  the  said 
John  held  the  same  in  service  in  chief  as  of  the  crown  as  parcel  of  his 
said  manor  by  the  service  aforesaid,  and  in  the  king's  time  without 
his  licence  released  those  services  to  the  abbot  and  his  successors, 
by  virtue  whereof  the  abbot  held  the  premises  in  chief  as  of  the  crown 
by  the  said  services,  that  the  abbey  was  after  void  by  death  and 
cession  of  divers  abbots,  and  that  the  now  abbot  entered  Avithout 
I)rocess  of  the  king's  court,  not  doing  the  services  etc.  Mhich  pertain 
to  the  king  in  that  behalf,  wherefore  he  took  the  premises  into  the  king's 
hand  ;  and  the  said  cause  being  at  the  suit  of  the  said  abbot  brought 
before  the  king  and  council  and  examined,  it  seems  to  the  council  that 
the  premises  were  unlawfully  so  taken,  for  that  in  the  said  certificate 
no  trespass  is  found  in  the  acquisition  thereof. 

May  30.  To  William  de  Frotheleye  escheator  in  Notjmghamshire.  Order  to 
Westminster,  eause  Edmund  Pirpount  knight  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage,  two 
bovates  of  land  and  two  acres  of  meadow  in  Barton  held  by  John  Hasty 
outlawed  for  felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  sheriff,  that  the  premises  have  been  in  his  hand  for  a  year 
and  a  day,  that  they  were  held  of  the  said  Edmund  and  are  yet  in  the 
king's  hand,  and  that  Philip  de  Lutteleye  late  escheator  had  the 
year  and  a  day  and  the  waste,  and  ought  to  answer  for  the  same. 

Feb.  6.  To  William  de  Strete  the  king's  butler  or  his  representative  in  the 

Westminster,  port  of  Suthampton.     Order  to  cause  one  tun  of  wine  of  the  king's 

E  2 


18 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1304. 


Membrane  19 — cont. 


right  prise  in  that  port  for  the  present  year  to  be  delivered  to  the 
abbot  and  convent  of  Beaulieu  Regis,  according  to  a  charter  cf 
King  Henry  III  giving  to  the  said  abbot  and  convent  one  such  tun 
every  year  between  Christmas  and  the  Purification  towards  the 
celebration  of  masses  in  that  church. 

May  29.  To  William  Strete  the  king's  butler.  Order  to  cause  4  marks  a  pipe, 
Westminster,  at  which  sum  four  pipes  of  wine  were  appraised  by  the  council,  to  be 
levied  of  John  Clerk,  and  three  tuns  of  wine  to  be  appraised  and  exposed 
for  sale,  and  answer  to  be  made  to  the  king  for  the  moneys  thence 
arising  ;  as  the  said  four  pipes  not  gauged  which  the  said  John  sold 
contrary  to  the  statute,  and  the  said  three  tuns  likewise  not  gauged 
which  Richard  atte  Dane  '  bocher  '  took  from  a  ship  wherein  they 
were  laded  and  lodged  in  a  cellar  of  the  said  John  at  London  contrary 
to  the  statute,  it  is  said,  are  forfeit  to  the  king.  '  By  C. 

Membrane  18. 

June  24.  To  William  de  Frotheleye  escheator  in  Derbyshire.     Order  not  to 

Westminster,  meddle  further  with  a  messuage  and  one  carucate  of  land  in 
Yeveley,  one  carucate  of  land  and  20s.  of  rent  in  Holyngton,  one 
carucate  of  land  in  Cromford  and  Steple,  and  the  moiety  of  one 
carucate  of  land  in  Wyaston  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  Hugh  de  Meignille  knight,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
said  Hugh  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  premises  for  life  with  reversion  to  Thomas 
his  son,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

June  1.  To    Gilbert   Talbot   and   Perina   his   wife.     Order   not   to   meddle 

Westminster,  further  with  the  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Leye  co.  Gloucester,  in  their 
keeping  by  demise  of  Thomas  de  Cotes,  to  whom  the  king  granted 
the  keeping  of  all  the  lands  of  John  Cofe  an  idiot  in  Westhide  co. 
Hereford,  Eggesworth,  Leye  and  Lassynden  co.  Gloucester,  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  John's  idiocy,  delivering  wholly  to 
Thomas  Ralegh  of  Charles  any  issues  thereof  taken  since  26  June 
in  the  36th  year  of  the  reign  ;  as  lately,  on  the  finding  of  divers 
inquisitions,  taken  by  Philip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  the  said  counties, 
that  a  third  part  of  the  manors  of  Lassyden,  Leye,  Westbury  and 
Eggesworth  co.  Gloucester  and  a  third  part  of  the  fourth  part  of  the 
manor  of  Westhide  co.  Hereford  came  to  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of 
the  idiocy  of  the  said  John,  who  died  while  the  same  were  in  the  king's 
hand,  that  the  said  Thomas  de  Ralegh  cousin  of  the  said  John  is  his 
next  heir  and  of  full  age,  and  that  the  said  third  parts  are  held  of  others 
than  the  king,  on  the  day  above  mentioned  the  king  ordered  the  said 
escheator  to  deliver  the  said  third  parts  to  Thomas  de  Ralegh. 


Membrane  17. 

June  8.  To  Philip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.     Order  to  take 

Westminster,  the  fealty  of  John  Waryn  according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed, 
and  to  cause  him  to  have  seisin  of  12  acres  of  land  in  St.  Briavel, 
a  messuage,  20  acres  of  land  and  4  acres  of  meadow  in  Piryton, 
and  a  messuage,  20  acres  of  land  and  5  acres  of  meadow  in 
Rokhampton,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  William 
Waryn,  saving  to  the  king  the  issues  thereof  since  William's  death 


38  KDWARD  TIT.  19 


13G4.  Membrane  17 — cont. 

and  tlic  marriage  of  the  heir  if  the  same  ouglit  to  pertain  to  the  king  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  cscheator,  that 
Wilham  at  his  dcatli  hekl  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  the  said  land  in  St. 
Briavel  in  chief  by  the  service  of  keeping  the  king's  castle  of  St. 
Briavel  in  time  of  war,  and  the  residue  of  the  premises  of  others  than 
the  king,  that  Guy  de  Bryen  keeper  of  the  said  castle  and  of  the  forest 
of  Dene  entered  and  by  colour  of  his  office  seized  the  premises 
immediately  after  William's  death,  who  died  on  Monday  after  St. 
Barnabas  in  the  22nd  year  of  the  reign,  and  demised  the  wardship 
thereof  to  Walter  Vaughan  until  the  lawful  age  of  William's  heir, 
that  the  said  Walter  and  his  aasigtis  have  occupied  the  premises  from 
the  death  of  WilHam,  taking  the  issues  thereof,  and  that  the  said  John 
son  of  William  is  his  next  heir  and  now  of  the  age  of  21  years  and 
upwards  ;  and  the  king  has  respited  his  homage  until  Michaelmas. 

June  20.  To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Berkshire.  Order  to  remove  the 
Wostminator.  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  three  messuages, 
one  mill,  two  carucates  of  land,  GO  acres  of  meadow,  50  acres  of  pasture 
and  40^'?.  of  rent  in  Hanneye,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  lately  ordered  the  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the 
cause  wherefore  the  manor  of  Esthanneye  of  Thomas  de  Besyles 
knight  and  John  Seymor  was  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and 
he  returned  that  he  learned  by  report  of  many  that  Alice  who  was  wife 
of  William  Noioun  at  her  death  held  the  premises  for  life  witli 
reversion  to  the  heirs  of  the  said  William,  and  that  the  said  William 
was  a  bastard  and  died  without  an  heir,  that  he  took  the  same  into 
the  king's  hand  supposing  them  to  be  held  in  chief  for  that  no  chief 
lord  of  the  fee  put  in  any  claim  to  the  lordship  thereof,  that  after  it 
was  found  by  inquisition,  before  him  taken  of  his  office,  that  John 
Tyrel  and  Joan  his  wife  recovered  the  premises  of  the  said  William 
by  an  assize  of  novel  disseisin  as  the  right  of  Joan,  and  by  fine  levied 
in  the  king's  court  gave  them  to  Thomas  de  Besyles  knight,  Thomas 
Feteplace  and  John  Seymore  and  to  the  heirs  of  John  Seymore,  that 
after  the  recovery  William  Noioun  had  no  seisin  or  estate  therein, 
and  that  the  same  are  not  held  of  the  king  ;  and  the  king  considers 
that  cause  insufficient. 

June  25.  To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Wilts.  Order,  of  the  issues  of  the 
Westminster,  manor  of  Somerford  Kaynes,  to  pay  to  the  abbess  of  Caen  the  arrears 
of  a  rent  of  205.  and  one  purse  price  Id.  from  the  death  of  Theobald 
de  Mounteneye,  who  died  on  the  Nativity  of  St.  Mary  in  the  35th  year 
of  the  reign,  and  to  pay  the  same  henceforth  so  long  as  the  manor 
shall  be  in  his  keeping  as  it  used  heretofore  to  be  paid,  taking  her 
acquittance  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  Theobald  at  his  death  held  the  said  manor  for  life 
of  the  king's  gift  with  reversion  to  the  king  and  his  heirs,  and  that 
a  parcel  of  meadow  and  pasture  thereto  pertaining  called  Pillesmore 
is  held  of  the  said  abbess,  lady  of  Munchenehampton,  by  the  service 
of  the  yearly  payment  aforesaid  to  be  made  at  Munchenehampton 
on  Michaelmas  day  in   the  forenoon. 

June  22.         To  John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Surrey.     Order  to  cause  a  messuage, 

Westminster.    100  acres  of  land,  4:h  acres  and  the  moiety  of  one  rcod  of  meadow, 

100  acres  of  pasture,  76  acres  of  wood,  33s.  6|f?.  of  rent  and  a  rent  of 

16  hens  and  40  eggs  at  Wodemersthorne,  a  messuage,  200  acres  of 


20 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364  Membrane  17 — cont. 

land  and  16  acres  of  wood  at  Chepsted,  one  fulling  mill  at  Kersalton 
and  5  acres  of  meadow  at  Nutfeld  to  be  parted  into  two  equal  parts 
in  the  presence  of  John  atte  Lee  steward  of  Queen  Philippa,  or  of 
the  said  steward's  attorney,  and  of  Cicely  de  Bello  Campo  sister  of 
John  de  Bello  Campo  of  Somerset,  if  upon  warning  received  thej'^ 
choose  to  attend,  to  cause  the  purparty  of  John  Meryet  son  of 
John  Meryet  knight  to  be  delivered  to  the  said  queen  with  the  issues 
thereof  from  the  death  of  Cicely  de  Beauchamp  deceased,  and  to  remove 
the  king's  hand  from  the  other  purparty  falling  to  the  said  Cicely 
sister  of  John,  delivering  up  any  issues  taken  of  that  purparty,  and 
sending  the  partition  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery  as  usual  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
Cicely  Beauchamp  deceased  at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county 
in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  held  the  premises 
for  life  of  others  than  the  king  of  the  gift  of  the  said  John  de  Bello 
Campo,  with  reversion  to  the  said  John  and  his  heirs,  and  that  John 
de  Bello  Campo  is  dead,  and  the  said  John  son  of  John  his  cousin, 
a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  the  said  Cicely  his  sister  of  full  age 
are  his  next  heirs  ;  and  the  king  has  granted  to  the  said  queen  the 
wardship  of  the  purparty  falling  to  the  said  John  son  of  John  of  the 
lands  Avhich  were  of  the  said  Jolm  de  Bello  Campo,  in  the  king's  hand 
by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  John  son  of  John, 
with  the  reversions  of  lands  held  in  dower  or  otherwise  for  life  or 
for  a  term  of  years,  to  hold  until  the  lawful  age  of  John  son  of  John. 

June  12.  To  William  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  not  to 
Westminster,  intermeddle  further  with  a  toft  and  one  bovate  of  land  in  Osgotby 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  William  de  Ryghton  ;  as 
it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  AVilliam 
at  his  death  held  the  premises  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  Robert  son 
and  heir  of  William  Bard  of  Osgotby  tenant  in  chief  as  of  the  honour 
of  Albemarle,  lately  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  by  homage  and  the 
service  of  2d.  a  year,  and  that  William  son  of  the  said  William  is  his 
next  heir  and  of  full  age  ;  and  on  16  January  in  the  31st  year  of  his 
reign  the  king  granted  to  Isabel  his  daughter  all  manner  of  wards, 
marriages,  reliefs  and  other  profits  arising  of  the  fees  of  Albemarle  in 
England. 


June  10.  To  all  and  singular  the  king's  sheriffs,  mayors,  bailiffs,  ministers 
VVostininstor.  and  licges.  Order  to  suffer  William  now  bishop  of  Winchester  and  the 
men  and  tenants  of  his  fees,  when  they  shall  come  with  their  goods 
and  property  whatsoever  within  the  bailiwicks  or  districts  of  the 
said  sheriff's  etc.,  to  be  quit  of  toll,  murage,  pavage,  pontage,  passage, 
payage,  lastage,  pesage,  keyage,  picage,  terrage  and  all  other  customs 
according  to  charters  of  the  king  and  his  forefathers,  releasing  any 
distraint  heretofore  made  upon  them,  and  restoring  anything  taken, 
of  them  ;  as  among  other  liberties  granted  to  the  bishop  of  ^^■  inchester 
and  his  successors  by  charters  of  former  kings  was  granted  such 
quittance  of  toll,  murage  and  pavage  throughout  the  realm,  and  the 
king  by  charter  has  confirmed  those  charters,  and  has  further  granted 
that  though  the  said  bishop  and  his  predecessors  have  not  used  the 
liberties  therein  contained,  he  and  his  successors  shall  be  quit  of  the 
customs  above  rehearsed  for  all  their  property  which  they  shall  cause 
to  be  carried  by  land  and  by  water. 
Et  erat  patens.     \Fcedera.] 


38  EDWARD  TTT. 


21 


l;JG4.  Membrane  10. 

Jutio  iJS.  To  RonjiM'  do  AVolfivtoii  <>s('li(>ator  in  NoifTolk.  Order  to  take  of 
Wostmiiistor.  I<]|i/abetli  wlio  was  wife  of  \\'altcr  Maunccl  tenant  in  ciiief  an  oath 
that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  kind's  licence,  and  to  assign  her 
dower  of  the  lands  of  h(>r  said  husband  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  his  death,  sending  the  assigiuncut  under  his  s(!al  to  be  enrolled 
in  ehancerv  as  usual. 


July  8.  To   all   and  singular   the   king's  justices,   sherilTs,   mayors,    bailifTs, 

VVesttninstor.  ministers  ami  lieges.  Order  to  sutler  the  abbot  of  Fecamp),  his  proctors, 
his  men  and  tenants  of  his  land,  manors  and  hundreds  to  use  and 
enjoy  the  liberties  and  quittances  granted  them  by  charter  of  the  king's 
forefathers,  as  they  ought  to  do  and  used  to  do  before  the  war  with 
France  ;  as  among  other  liberties  and  ({uittanees  it  was  granted  them 
to  have  the  land  of  8tanynges  with  its  dependencies,  the  manor  of 
Cliiltenham  with  its  hundred,  and  the  manor  of  Sloughtre  with  the 
hundred  of  Sa!enuiid)ury,  and  all  laws,  liberties,  free  customs, 
quittances,  pleas,  plaints  and  causes  without  disturbance  or 
diminution  of  any  secular  or  judicial  ]K)wer  as  nuxtters  pertaining 
to  the  lord's  treasure,  that  the  premises  with  their  possessions,  possessors 
and  appurtenances  should  be  free  and  quit  of  all  custom  of  earthly 
servitude  and  of  all  domination  and  subjection  to  barons,  princes 
and  others,  that  the  said  abbot,  the  monks  and  their  ministers  should 
have  royal  liberty  and  custom  and  all  their  justice  of  all  matters 
and  business  \\hicli  should  or  might  arise  in  the  premises,  and  none 
should  meddle  therein  but  by  them,  and  that  any  man  contravening 
this  grant  should  pay  100/.  of  gold  to  the  lords'  treasure  ;  and  now 
on  behalf  of  the  abbot  the  king  has  learned  that  though  he  and  hia 
predecessors  and  their  pi'octors  in  England,  from  the  time  of  that  grant 
to  the  time  when  the  lands  of  the  abbey  in  England  were  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  said  war,  were  quit  of  amercements 
in  whatsoever  courts  of  England,  and  had  all  amercements  of  their 
men  and  tenants  aforesaid  in  whatsoever  court  they  were  amerced, 
and  they  and  the  said  men  and  tenants  used  to  be  quit  of  toll,  passage, 
pontage,  murage,  picage,  stallage  and  all  other  customs  throughout 
the  realm,  the  said  abbot  and  his  proctors  are  now  hindered  from 
having  these  liberties  and  quittances  contrary  to  the  said  charters  and 
not  as  before  the  said  war. 
Et  erat  patens. 

July  12.  To  all  and  singular  the  king's  sheriffs,  mayors,  bailiffs,  ministers 
Westminster,  and  lieges,  within  liberties  and  without.  Order  to  suffer  the  men 
and  tenants  of  the  manor  of  Clyve  co.  Norhampton,  which  is  of  the 
ancient  demesne  of  the  crown  as  appears  by  certificate  sent  into 
cliancery  at  the  king's  command  by  the  treasurer  and  the  chamberlains, 
to  be  quit  of  toll  for  their  goods  throughout  the  realm,  according  to 
the  custom  hitherto  used  in  the  realm  in  regard  to  men  a.nd  tenants 
of  ancient  demesne,  releasing  any  distraint  made  for  that  cause. 
Et  erat  patens. 

July  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  Salop.  Order  to  deliver  to  Hugh  Carles  the  manor 
Westminster,  of  Albrigliton,  if  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  his  outlawry  and  for  no 
other  cause,  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  from  10  October  last,  suffering 
him  to  hold  the  same  quit  from  that  date  of  20s.  a  year  wherewith  the 
sheriff  was  charged,  for  the  king  would  thereof  discharge  the  sheriff 
at  the  exchequer  from  the  said  date  ;   as  the  treasurer  and  the  barons 


22  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

of  the  exchequer  have  at  the  king's  command  certified  that,  by  search 
of  the  rolls  and  ni<^moranda  of  the  exchequer,  it  is  found  in  a  roll  of 
fines,  amercements  and  chattels  forfeit  of  the  33rd  year  of  the  reign 
before  Henry  de  Motelowe  and  Hugh  de  Aston  late  justices  of 
assize  and  gaol  delivery  in  divers  counties,  and  justices  assigned 
in  Salop  to  hear  and  determine  certain  trespasses  committed  against 
Lewis  de  Cherleton  and  others  in  Salop,  that  the  sheriff  is  charged  with 
20i'?.  the  yearly  value  of  the  said  manor  over  and  above  a  farm  of  201.  a 
year  rendered  to  Roger  de  la  Warre  by  the  said  Hugh,  who  was  outlawed 
on  Thursday  after  the  Purification  that  year  as  well  at  the  suit  of  the 
king  as  of  the  said  Lewis  and  others  ;  and  on  10  October  aforesaid 
the  king  by  letters  patent  pardoned  him  that  outlawry,  pronounced 
against  him  for  that  he  came  not  before  the  said  justices  to  answer 
as  well  to  the  king  as  to  the  said  Le\^'is,  William  de  Charleton  and 
Thomas  de  Bisshebury  severally  for  contempts,  trespasses  and 
damages   against  them  committed. 

July  12.  To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 
Westminster.  Order  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage,  30  acres  of  land, 
2  acres  of  meadow  and  2  acres  of  moor  in  Overburgate  which  came  to 
the  king's  hands  by  death  of  John  Reyson  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage 
of  Thomas  his  son  and  heir,  and  are  in  the  king's  hand  ;  as  it  is 
found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John 
held  the  premises  by  knight  service  of  the  heir  of  William  de  Botriaux 
tenant  in  chief  late  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  that  the  said 
Thomas  died  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship  on  Friday  after  the 
Purification  in  the  35th  year  of  the  reign,  and  that  Eleanor  wife  of' 
John  Pyke  and  Margery  wife  of  John  le  Coke  her  sister  are  aunts  and 
next  heirs  of  the  said  John  Reyson  and  of  full  age ;  and  on 
27  September  in  the  33rd  year  of  the  reign,  on  proof  of  the  age  of 
"William  son  and  heir  of  William  de  Botriaux.  his  homage  was  taken, 
and  the  king  commanded  liverj^  to  be  given  him  of  his  said  father's 
lands. 

June  26.  To  Richard  de  Wydeville  escheator  in  Roteland.  Order  not  to 
Westminster,  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Gleston  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  William  W^ade,  delivering  to  Margaret  late  his 
wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  William  at  his  death  held  no 
lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service, 
but  held  the  said  manor  jointly  A\ith  the  said  Margaret,  and  that  the 
same  is  held  of  another  than  the  king. 

Membrane  15. 

June  28.  To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Hertfordshire.  Order  to 
Westminster,  make  inquisition  whether  Peter  de  Bolneye  was  outlawed,  and  if  so 
when,  for  what  cause,  how  and  before  what  justices  the  outlawry  was 
returned,  whether  the  goods  arrested  by  the  escheator  were  of  Thomas 
Redberd  chaplain  or  of  the  said  Peter,  and  touching  other  the 
circumstances,  sending  the  inquisition  to  the  king  in  chancery,  and  also 
this  writ,  and  to  cause  the  said  goods  and  chattels  so  arrested  to  be 
delivered  to  the  said  Thomas  by  a  mainprise,  if  he  shall  find 
mainpernors  to  answer  at  the  exchequer  for  the  20s.  at  which  the  same 
are  appraised  in  case  they  ought  to  pertain  to  the  king  as  his  forfeit  ; 


38  KDWARl)  ITT.  23 


1304.  '  Membrane  15 — cont. 

as  the  king  lately  ordered  the  esciieator  to  certify  in  chancery  the 
cause  wherefore  tlie  j^ioods  nor  chattels  of  the  said  Thomas  in  Mychen 
were  by  him  taken  into  the  kinj^'s  hand,  and  the  value  thereof,  and 
he  returned  that  he  so  took  no  goods  nor  chattels  of  Thomas,  but  divers 
goods  and  chattels  of  the  said  Peter,  who  was  outlawed  ten  years  ago, 
appraised  at  20s.  as  he  found  by  inquisition  before  him  taken  of  his 
office  ;  atid  now  the  said  Thomas  has  informed  the  king  that  the  said 
Peter  never  was  outlawed,  nor  were  the  goods  and  chattels  so  arrested 
his  at  any  time,  but  the  proper  goods  of  Thomas,  praying  that  the  same 
may   be  delivered   to   him. 

July  4.  To    Philip   de    Lutteleye   escheator   in    Herefordshire.     Order   not 

Westminster,  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage  and  one  virgate  of  land  in 
Ledebury  Foreyn  and  the  moiety  of  one  virgate  of  land  in  the  same 
town,  which  John  Damisele  and  Elizabeth  late  his  wife  held  of  the 
bishopric  of  Hereford,  and  which  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  death  of  the  said  Elizabeth  and  by  reason  of  the  vacancy  of  the 
bishopric,  and  are  in  his  hand,  delivering  up  any  issues  taken  since  her 
death  of  divers  lands  held  of  other  lords  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John  Damysel  at 
his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief,  that  he  and  Elizabeth 
held  the  premises  jointly  to  them  and  their  heirs,  the  said  messuage 
and  virgate  of  the  bishop  of  Hereford  by  knight  service,  the  said 
moiety  of  the  said  bishop  by  socage,  and  divers  lands  of  divers  other 
lords,  that  the  said  Elizabeth,  who  survived  her  said  husband  and 
held  the  said  lands  for  life  in  form  aforesaid,  died  15  August  in  the 
35th  year  of  the  reign,  the  bishopric  being  then  void  and  in  the  king's 
hand,  that  John  son  of  the  said  John  and  Elizabeth  is  their  next  heir 
and  of  the  age  of  21  years  and  upwards,  and  that  John  Fitz  Heir  and 
Warin  de  Grendon  occupied  the  said  lands  from  the  death  of  Elizabeth 
by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  heir,  then  within  age,  taking  the 
issues  and  profits  ;  and  the  king  has  at  another  time  taken  the 
fealty  of  Lewis  now  bishop  of  Hereford,  and  restored  to  him  the 
temporalities  of  the  bishopric. 

Membrane  14. 

July  5.  To  Richard   de  Wydeville  escheator  in   Norhamptonshire.     Order 

VVostrninster.  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  town  of  Dodyngton  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  William  Dencourt,  delivering  to 
Milisent  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
b}^  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  William  at  his 
death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee, 
but  held  the  said  town  jointly  with  the  said  Milisent  of  another  than 
the  kinir. 


o" 


To  William  de  Otteford  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.  Like 
order  with  regard  to  the  manor  of  Wouburn  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  William  Dencourt  at  his 
death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee, 
but  held  the  said  manor  jointly  with  Milisent  late  his  wife,  to  them 
and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  the  same  is  held  of  another 
than  the  kins. 


o* 


July  13.         To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne.     Writ  of  aid, 

Wo3tminstor.  directing  them  under  pain  of  forfeiture,   to   be  aiding  the  coUestors 

of  customs  when  required  with  all  their  power   in    making    arrests 


24  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364.  Membrane  14 — cont. 

of  shipmasters,  seamen  and  merchants  who  secretly  depart  without 
paying  the  customs  upon  their  merchandise,  and  in  otlier  matters 
ali'ccting  their  office  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  that  some  do  so 
depart,  at  one  time  by  day  at  another  by  night,  ^ith  their  ships 
and  merchandise  therein,  and  the  collectors  perceive  it,  but  are  not 
sufficient  to  arrest  them  at  tlicir  departure  from  the  port.         By  K. 

July  \.  To   William   de   Otteford   escheator  in   Cambridgeshire.     Order   to 

Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  15  acres, 
of  land  in  Dryedrayton,  delivering  to  Gilbert  Bernard  and  John 
Godyn  chaplain  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  lately  ordered 
the  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  whei'efore  the  premises 
were  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  he  returned  that  he  so 
took  that  land  for  that  it  was  found  by  inquisition,  before  him  taken 
of  his  office,  that  the  master  of  St.  John's  House  Cambridge  without 
the  king's  licence  appropriated  the  same  to  him  and  his  house  after 
the  publication  of  the  statute  of  mortmain  ;  and  after  at  the  suit 
of  the  said  Gilbert  and  John,  alleging  that  John  Warde  parson  of 
Dryedrayton,  Robert  de  Elles^^'orth,  Stephen  Aleyn  and  Stephen 
Do  bat,  tenants  of  the  said  land  in  their  demesne  as  of  fee,  by  charter 
gave  the  same  to  the  said  Gilbert  and  John  Godyn,  and  that  they  by 
virtue  of  the  gift  were  thereof  seised,  and  continued  their  seisin  until 
unlaAvfully  put  out  by  the  escheator,  without  that  that  the  said  master 
or  any  of  his  predecessors  had  or  claimed  anything  therein,  and 
praying  that  the  king's  hand  should  be  removed,  the  king  ordered 
the  escheator  to  make  inquisition  touching  the  circumstances ;  and 
by  inquisition  so  made  it  is  found  that  the  said  Gilbert  and  John 
Godyn  acquired  the  land  to  them  and  their  heirs  of  the  said  John 
Warde  and  others  who  before  held  the  same  in  fee,  \\ithout  that  that 
any  master  of  the  said  house  had  an  estate  therein,  and  that  the 
same  is  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

July  18.  To  John  Not  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  a.nd  escheator  therein. 
Westminster.  Order  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further 
with  two  solars  and  the  moiety  of  one  shop  which  were  of  William 
de  Tydynglombe  citizen  and  poulterer  of  London  in  the  parish  of 
St.  Mildred  in  the  Poultry  London,  delivering  to  Adam  Fraunceys 
citizen  of  London  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  lately  ordered 
the  mayor  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  the  premises 
were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  Stephen  de  Cavendissh  late  mayor 
and  escheator,  and  he  returned  that  the  said  late  escheator  so  took 
the  same,  and  they  are  in  the  king's  hand,  for  that  he  found  by 
inquisition,  before  him  taken  of  his  office,  that  the  said  Adam,  being 
sometime  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  the  moiety  of  one  shop 
with  two  solars  built  over  in  the  said  parish,  which  are  held  of  the 
king  in  free  burgage  as  is  all  the  city  of  London,  demised  the  same 
to  the  said  William  and  his  assigns  for  life  with  reversion  to  the  said 
Adam  and  his  heirs,  and  that  William  demised  his  estate  therein  to 
John  de  Haukeden  poulterer  of  London  for  the  life  of  William,  and 
for  that  the  said  John  died  without  an  heir  in  the  life  time  of  William ; 
and  the  said  William  is  now  dead,  as  is  found  by  certificate  of  the 
escheator. 

July  10.  To  John  atte  Lee  steward  of  the  lands  of  Queen  Philippa.     Order 

Westminster,  to  cause  a  yearly  rent  of  lOL  of  the  manor  of  Stowe  co.  Norfolk,  with 


38  EDWARD  IIT 


25 


1304. 


July  4. 
Westniiastor. 


July  8. 
Westminster. 


Aug.   28. 

Easthamp- 

stead. 


Membrane  14 — cont. 

the  arrccars  thereof  from  the  decath  of  John  liarJcjlf  of  Wynnegeye 
tenant  in  cliief,  to  be  paid  henceforth  to  Robert  Hardolf  durin^jj  the 
nona<^e  of  the  said  John  Hai'dolf's  heir  ;  as  it  is  found  by  in({uisitions 
of  the  lands  whieh  were  of  Joim  Hartlolf  at  his  deatli,  and  by  his  death 
and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  heir  are  in  the  king's  hand, 
and  in  tlie  wardship  of  the  said  (jueen  of  the  king's  grant,  that  John 
in  his  life  time  with  the  king's  lieeuee  granted  the  said  rent  of  his  said 
manor  to  the  said  Robert  for  life. 

To  William  de  Otteford  csohcator  in  Cambridgeshire.  Order  to  take 
tlie  fealty  of  Riehard  son  of  Reynold  de  Wygenhale  aecording  to  the 
form  oi  a  seliedule  enclosed,  and  to  cause  liini  to  have  seisin  of  a 
messuage  and  24  acres  of  land  in  Fordham  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  death  of  William  de  Wygeidiale  of  Fordham  ;  as  the  king  ha.s 
learned  by  incpiisition,  taken  by  the  esc^heator,  that  the  said  William 
at  his  death  held  the  premises  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  in  chief  by  the 
service  of  the  40th  part  of  one  knight's  fee,  that  the  said  Riehard 
cousin  of  William,  a  minor  at  ^\■illiam's  death,  is  liis  next  heir  and 
now  of  full  age,  and  that  by  reason  of  his  nonage  answer  was  made 
by  the  cscheators  for  the  time  being  for  the  issues  of  the  premises 
from  the  death  of  William,  who  died  20  September  in  the  33rd  year 
of  the  reign  ;  and  the  king  has  respited  the  homage  of  Riehard  until 
Michaelmas    next. 

Vacated  because  otherwise  below.     [See  p.   37.] 

To  Philip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  Salop.  Order  to  take  the 
fealty  of  John  de  Leynthale  according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed, 
and  to  deliver  to  him,  to  hold  by  the  courtesy  of  England,  a  messuage 
and  the  moiety  of  one  virgate  of  land  in  Roughton  within  the  manor 
of  Worfeld,  and  the  bailiwick  of  a  moiety  of  the  forestership  of  the 
forest  of  Morf,  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since  the  death  of  Joan 
his  wife,  saving  to  the  king  the  marriage  of  Katherine  daughter  of  the 
said  John  and  Joan  ;  as  the  king  has  karned  by  inquisition,  taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Joan  at  her  death  held  the  premises 
in  Roughton  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee  in  chief  by  the  service  of  keeping 
the  bailiwick  aforesaid  for  all  service,  that  the  said  Katherine  is  her 
next  heir  and  of  the  age  of  4  years  and  upwards,  and  that  the  said 
premises  and  bailiwick  ought  to  pertain  to  the  said  John  for  his  life 
by  reason  of  that  issue. 

Membrane  13. 

To  WiHiam  Freman  searcher  of  forfeitures  at  Calais.  Order  to 
cause  a  ship  called  '  la  Peter  '  of  Lyverpole,  and  two  sarplers  of  a\  ool 
containing  by  estimation  lA  sacks  therein  found,  to  be  dearrested 
and  delivered  to  John  Balle  the  master,  according  to  a  writ  under 
the  great  seal  to  him  formerly  addressed,  a  writ  of  privy  seal  to  the 
contrary  notwithstanding  ;  as  the  king  lately  ordered  the  searcher 
to  certify  the  cause  wherefore  he  arrested  the  said  ship  at  Calais,  and 
he  signified  that  he  so  did  for  that  on  18  June  last  the  said  wool  was 
found  therein  not  cocketted  nor  customed  ;  and  after  at  the  suit  of 
the  said  master,  alleging  that  the  wool  is  cheap  '  cogwolle  '  and  '  refus  ' 
of  Ireland,  not  cockettable  according  to  the  custom  of  Ireland,  and 
that  he  paid  in  Ireland  the  custom  there  usually  paid  for  the  same, 
and  praying  that  ship  and  wool  sliould  be  dearrested,  the  king  ordered 


26 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364.  Membrane  13 — cont. 

the  inspector  to  dearrest  and  deliver  them  to  him  if  assured  that 
the  premises  are  true  by  the  oath  of  true  men  as  well  merchants  as 
others  of  Ireland  or  of  England  who  were  at  Calais  ;  and  it  is  found  by- 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  inspector  in  presence  of  John  Frost  and 
John  Philipot  constables  of  the  staple  of  Calais,  that  the  wool  so  arrested 
as  forfeit  is  '  cogwolle  '  and  '  refus  '  of  Ireland,  customable  but  not 
cockettable,  and  that  the  master  faithfully  paid  his  custom  at  Dublin 
for  the  same,  but  the  inspector  might  not  nor  would  deliver  to  the 
master  ship  nor  wool  until  further  order,  as  he  has  certified  the  king, 
for  that  by  the  said  writ  of  privy  seal  the  king  commanded  him  to  send 
the  ship  with  all  its  gear  to  the  port  of  Sandewich. 

By  p.s.  [26392.] 

July  18.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Great  Jernemuth,  the  king's 

WeBtrainster.  controller  and  troner  there.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Richard 
Haverlond  merchant,  to  repair  in  person  to  the  port  of  Ipswich  with 
the  weights  and  instruments  for  weighing  of  wool  appointed  in  the  port 
of  Great  Jernemuth,  to  cause  100  sacks  of  his  wool  now  being  there 
and  in  the  neighbouring  ports  to  be  dulj'^  weighed,  and  when  weighed, 
and  the  customs  and  subsidies  due  thereon  paid  in  the  port  of  Ipswich, 
to  suffer  him  this  time  of  the  king's  favour  there  to  lade  it,  taking 
of  him  and  the  masters  of  ships  wherein  it  shall  be  laded  an  oath 
that  they  will  take  the  same  to  Calais  and  there  and  not  elsewhere 
unlade  and  sell  it,  making  thereof  the  king's  letters  indented  under 
his  cocket  seal  according  to  a  command  to  them  addressed  at  another 
time,  and  suffering  the  said  Richard  by  himself  or  his  servants  to  take 
it  over  to  the  said  town,  orders  or  commands  to  the  contrary  what- 
soever not\\  ithstanding  ;  as  the  said  Richard  has  shewn  that  he  has 
in  the  town  of  Ipswich  and  neighbouring  parts  100  sacks  of  the  wool 
of  Robert  earl  of  Suffolk  and  of  Ralph  de  Hemenhale  to  take  to  Calais 
which  if  brought  to  the  port  of  Great  Jernemuth  would  be  much 
damaged,  and  he  would  have  to  incur  no  small  labour  and  cost  about 
the  carriage  thereof  to  his  ruin,  praying  licence  in  order  to  avoid 
such  loss  to  lade  the  same  in  the  port  of  Ipswich,  after  payment  of 
the  customs  and  subsidies  due.  By  K.  and  C. 

Dec.  1.  To  the  same.     Like  order  ;    as  lately  at  the  request  of  Robert  earl 

Westminster,  of  Suffolk  and  Ralph  de  Hemenhale  the  king  granted  the  above  licence 
to  Richard  de  Haverlond  merchant,  and  now  he  has  informed  the  king 
that  of  the  100  sacks  of  wool  45  have  been  laded  and  taken  to  Calais, 
and  55  yet  remain  to  be  taken  over,  praying  for  licence  to  lade  those 
in    the    port    of    Ipswich.  By  C. 


Oct.  26.  To  John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Kent.     Order  to  deliver  certain  tene- 

Westminster.  ments  at  Walwyche  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  de 
NortliM'ode  knight,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since  his 
death,  to  the  next  friend  of  the  said  John's  heir  to  whom  the  heritage 
may  not  descend,  to  be  kept  to  the  said  heir's  use,  but  not  to  meddle 
further  with  divers  other  lands  likewise  so  taken,  delivering  up  any 
issues  of  these  last  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  divers  inquisitions, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  John  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that 
county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  whereby  the  wardship  of  his 
lands  ought  at  present  to  pertain  to  the  king,  but  held  the  premises 
in  Walwyche  of  the  king  as  of  his  manor  of  Eltham  in  '  gavelkynde  ' 


38  EDWARD   IK.  27 


1304.  Memhrane  13 — cont. 

by  the  service  of  rendering  305.  a  year  at  the  king's  said  manor  and  doing 
suit  at  liis  court  of  Ell  ham  every  three  weeks  for  all  service,  and  divers 
oduM"  hvnds  of  others  than  the  king,  .and  that  Joan  dv  Northwodc 
daughter  of  the  said  John  is  his  next  heir,  and  of  tlie  age  of  8  years 
and  upwards. 

Oct.  30.  'J\)    Roger    de    Wolfreton    esclieator    in    Suffolk.      Order    not    to 

Westminstor.  meddle  further  witli  the  manor  of  Hyntlesham  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  Margery  who  was  wife  of  William  Pipard, 
delivering  to  ^^'arin  de  Insula  and  Margaret  his  wife  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  eschcator, 
that  the  said  Margery  at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in 
chief  in  lier  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court 
with  his  licence  held  the  said  manor  for  life  as  jointly  cnfeofTcd  with 
William  sometime  her  husband,  of  the  gift  of  Geoffrey  Gilberd.  to  the 
said  \^'illiam  and  Margery  and  the  heirs  male  of  their  bodies,  with 
remainder  for  lack  of  such  heir  male  to  Robert  Fitz  Elys  now  deceased 
and  Margaret  liis  wife  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  that  William 
and  Margery  died  without  an  heir  male  of  their  bodies,  whereby  the 
said  manor  by  the  form  of  the  gift  ought  to  remain  to  the  said  Margaret 
whom  the  said  Warin  has  taken  to  wife,  and  that  the  said  manor, 
one  messuage  therein  excepted,  is  held  by  the  service  of  one  sparrow- 
hawk  {nisi)  or  of  2s.  yearly  payable  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  for  all 
services,  and  the  said  messuage  of  others  than  the  king ;  and  the  king 
has  taken  the  fealty  of  the  said  Warin. 

To  Thomas  Cheyne  escheator  in  Devon.  Order  not  to  meddle 
further  with  the  manors  of  Cherlton,  Northbovy,  Longedon  and  Litel 
Toteneys  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Margery  Pipard, 
delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  esclieator,  that  the  said  Margery  at  her  death 
held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  that 
she  and  William  Pipard  knight  sometime  her  husband  (likewise 
deceased)  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his  licence  held  the 
said  manors  to  them  and  the  heirs  male  of  their  bodies,  with  remainder 
for  lack  of  such  heir  male  to  the  right  heirs  of  the  said  William,  and 
tliat  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  kincr. 


'&• 


Membrane  12. 

July  12.  To  John  dc  Evesham  esclieator  in  Wilts.     Order  not  to  meddle 

Westminster,  further  \\  ith  a  messuage  and  tM  o  virgates  of  land  in  Fitelton  and  Combe, 
and  a  messuage  and  four  virgates  of  land  in  Cotes  by  Bishops  Canynges 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Richard  atte  Feld, 
delivering  to  Agnes  late  the  wife  of  LaAvrence  de  Hastynges  earl  of 
Pembroke  tenant  in  chief  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Richard  at 
his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee, 
but  held  the  premises  for  life  of  the  gift  of  the  said  earl  and  of  Agnes, 
that  the  same  ought  to  revert  to  tlie  said  Agnes  for  her  life  for  that 
she  was  thereof  jointly  enfeoffed  with  her  said  husband,  and  that 
they  are  held  of  another  than  the  king. 

To  \\'^illiam  de  Otteford  escheator  in  Bukinghanxshire.     Order  to 
cause  dower  of  the  manor  of  Grendon  to  be  assigned  to  Agnes  who  was 


28 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1304. 


Membrane  12 — cont. 


wife  of  Lawrence  de  Hastynges  earl  of  Pembroke  tenant  in  chief, 
of  whom  the  king  has  at  another  time  taken  an  oath  tliat  she  will  not  marry 
without  his  licence,  in  presence  of  the  heir  of  the  said  earl  if  he  choose 
to  attend,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
Theobald  de  Mountenay  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  of 
the  king  nor  of  others  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  that  the  said  earl, 
long  after  he  espoused  Agnes  daughter  of  Roger  de  Mortuo  Mari  of 
Wyggemore,  -with  the  king's  licence  gave  the  said  manor,  which  is 
held  in  chief,  to  the  said  Theobald  for  life  with  reversion  to  John  son 
and  heir  of  the  said  Lawrence,  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship. 

To  William  de  Otteford  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire.  Like  order, 
mutatis  mutandis,  concerning  the  manor  of  Great  Chelford  which  is 
held  in  chief  ;  as  the  king  has  lea^rned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  John  de  Grendon  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that 
county  of  the  king  nor  of  others  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service, 
but  that  the  said  late  earl,  long  after  he  espoused  the  said  Agnes, 
with  the  king's  licence  gave  the  said  manor  to  the  said  John  for  life. 

July  L  To    Ralph    de  Neville    keeper  of  the  king's  forest  beyond  Trent, 

Westminster,  or  to  his  i"epresentative  in  the  forest  of  Shirewode.  Order  to  deliver 
William  Giles  of  Edenestowc,  taken  and  imprisoned  in  the  king's 
prison  of  Notyngham  for  a  trespass  of  vert  in  the  said  forest  whereof 
he  is  indicted,  to  twelve  free  and  lawful  men  of  that  baili\\'ick  in  bail, 
if  he  shall  find  twelve  such  men  who  will  mainpern  to  have  him  before 
the  justices  for  pleas  of  the  forest  in  Notynghamshire  Avhen  they  shall 
come  thither  to  stand  to  right  concerning  that  trespass,  and  if  he  shall 
be  replevisable  according  to  the  assize  of  the  forest ;  and  to  have  the 
names  of  the  twelve  men  there,  and  this  writ. 

The  like  writ  for  Geoffrey  Alaynson  of  Botheby  and  Hugh  his  son. 

Another  writ  for  William  Harald  and  John  Harald. 

May  3.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  stay 

Westminster,  their  demand  made  by  summons  of  the  exchequer  upon  Nicholas 
de  Tamworth  knight  and  John  Bele*  for  a  second  payment  of  100/., 
discharging  them,  and  charging  Helmyngus  Leget  with  that  sum  ;  as 
on  23  January  last  the  said  Nicholas  and  John  made  a  joint  and 
several  recognisance  to  the  king  for  lOOL  to  be  paid  on  the  morrow 
of  the  Ascension,  and  the  tenor  thereof  has  been  sent  for  execution 
to  the  treasurer  and  barons  among  other  estreats  of  chancery,  but  the 
king  has  caused  that  recognisance  to  be  cancelled  for  that  the  said 
John  has  paid  that  sum  to  the  said  Helmyngus  receiver  of  the  king's 
chamber,  as  appears  by  letters  of  privy  seal  addressed  to  tlie 
chancellor  thereupon.  By  p.s.  [26307.] 

July  5.  To    William    de    Frotheleye    escheator    in    Notinghamshire    and 

Westminster.  Derbyshire.  Order  to  take  of  Milisent  who  was  wife  of  William 
Deyncourt  tenant  in  chief  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without 
the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign  her  dower  of  the  lands  of  her  said 
husband  which  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason 
of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  in  the  presence  of  John  de  la  Lee  steward  of 
Queen  Philippa,  or  of  the  king's  clerk  Richard  de  Ravensere  treasurer 

*  In  the  warrant,  John  Fleccher  otherwise  Bele. 


38    EDWARD    III.  29 


1304.  Membrane  12 — cont. 

of  t\\o  said  quocn,  to  A\honi  the  king  has  granted  the  wardsliip  of  two 
thirds  of  llioso  lands  uTilil  Iho  lawful  age  of  the  said  heir,  or  in  presence 
of  the  attorney  of  both  or  either  of  them,  if  they  choose  to  attend, 
sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  cliancery. 

To  Walter  de  Kelby  escheat  or  in  Lincolnshire.  Like  order  to  assign 
dower  to  the  said  ]Vlilisent,  as  the  king  has  taken  an  oath  of  her  by 
William  de  Froteleye. 

July  3.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order,  upon  tlie 

Wostininster.  petition  of  John  de  Hilton  the  king's  clerk,  to  stay  their  demand 
upon  liini  made  b}'  summons  of  the  exche(|uer  for  payment  of  20/. 
or  for  an  account  of  the  same,  discharging  him  thereof  ;  as  his 
petition  sliews  that  20/.  which  by  the  king's  command  was  paid  him 
at  the  receipt  of  the  exchequer  for  carriage  of  (500  bows,  LOOO  sheaves 
of  arrows  and  2,000  bowstrings  from  the  city  of  London  to  Lythei-]^)ole 
eo.  Lancastre,  thence  to  be  sent  to  Ireland  for  furnishing  tliat  land, 
is  now  current  in  demand  against  him  at  the  exchequer,  and  the 
king's  will  is  that  lie  shall  have  the  sum  so  spent  of  the  king's  gift. 

By  K. 

July  7.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Essex  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Weshninst(M-.  of  John  Walcys,  who  is  dead. 

July  10.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order,  upon  the 
Westminster,  petition  of  William  de  Hanley  the  king's  clerk,  to  stay  their  demand 
upon  him  made  by  summons  of  the  exchequer  for  payment  of  10/. 
to  the  king's  use,  discharging  him  thereof  ;  as  liis  petition  shews 
that  10/.,  which  by  the  king's  command  he  lately  received  at  the  receipt 
of  the  exchequer  for  his  pains  and  expenses  in  going  to  the  parts  of 
Calais  on  the  king's  service  for  furtherance  of  his  business  there,  is 
no\\'  current  in  demand  against  him  at  the  exchequer,  and  the  king's 
will  is  that  he  shall  have  the  sura  so  spent  of  the  king's  gift. 

By  K. 

July  18.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order,  upon 
Westminster,  the  petition  of  Adam  de  Seint  Ive  of  London,  to  allow  him  50/.  at  the 
exchequer  in  his  farm  of  all  exchanges  of  the  king's  and  other  moneys, 
gold  and  silver  plate  and  broken  silver,  discharging  him  thereof  ;  as 
on  3  March  in  the  37th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  indenture  demised 
to  him  to  farm  the  said  exchanges,  to  be  held  in  his  name  by  the  said 
Adam  and  his  deputies  in  all  suitable  places  where  he  should  please 
within  the  realm,  the  city  of  York  excepted,  from  Easter  then  next 
to  Michaelmas  following  and  thenceforward  for  one  whole  year, 
rendering  to  the  king  200/.  a  year  ;  and  now  petition  is  made  on  behalf 
of  Adam  for  a  remedy  touching  the  abatement  of  his  farm,  as  for 
divers  causes  the  profit  of  the  exchanges  is  so  diminished  that  he  may 
not  answer  for  so  much,  and  the  king  and  council  are  assured  that 
the  premises  are  true.  Proviso  that  the  said  Adam  shall  answer 
for  the  residue  of  his  farm.  By  C. 

Aug.  12.  To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheat  or  in  Norfolk.     Order  to  take  of 

W^estminster.  Eleanor  who  was  wife  of  William  de  Inglesthorpe  knight  tenant  in  chief 

an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to 


30 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364. 


Membrane  12 — cont. 


assign  her  dower  of  the  lands  which  were  of  her  said  husband  and 
are  by  his  death  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  sending  the  assignment 
under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

Aug.  18.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Norfolk  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Hugh  Burdy,  who  has   no  lands  in  that  county  whereof 

he   may  answer  to  the  king  and   peoj)lo   according   to  the  statute. 

Aug.  7.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Essex  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  John  de  Bernham,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Aug.  6.  Order    to    the   sheriff   of    York   to   cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  John  de  Frekelton,  who  is  aged  and  infirm. 

July  15.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 
Westminster,  of  Roger  Gunneys,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 


Sept.  3. 

Westminster. 


Sept.  25. 

Westminster. 


Sept.  30. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  11. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Huntingdon  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
instead  of  William  de  Luton,  who  has  been  elected  bailiff  of  the  king's 
town  of  Huntyngdon. 

To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  of  Ireland.  Order 
to  pay  of  the  treasury  of  Ireland  to  John  Haukyn  the  king's  Serjeant 
at  arms,  who  is  in  the  retinue  of  Lionel  duke  of  Clarence  the  king's 
son  and  lieutenant  in  Ireland,  such  wages  as  other  Serjeants  at  arms 
used  heretofore  to  have  in  Ireland  from  the  time  he  abode  there  on 
the  king's  service  and  so  long  as  he  shall  there  abide,  taking  his 
acquittance.  By  K.  and  C. 

To  the  bailiffs  of  Great  Jernemuth,  and  the  collectors  of  customs 
there.  Order  to  suffer  fishermen  from  Flanders  and  elsewhere  over 
sea,  who  shall  come  \\  ithin  the  realm  for  taking  herring  of  the  present 
season  and  bringing  them  to  Jernemuth  fair,  to  take  with  them  to  their 
own  parts  or  elsewhere  M'ithout  let  at  their  will  all  the  money  they  shall 
receive  for  the  price  of  herrings  brought  thither  and  sold  at  the  said 
fair,  after  paying  the  customs  due  thereupon,  the  proclamation  to  the 
contrary  notwithstanding,  although  lately  the  king  caused  proclamation 
to  be  made  throughout  the  realm  forbidding  any  man  under  pain  of 
forfeiture  to  take  or  cause  to  be  taken  out  of  the  realm  gold  or  silver 
in  money  or  otherwise  ;  as  willing  to  shew  favour  to  the  said  fishermen, 
the  king  has  given  them  licence  under  his  protection  to  come  within 
the  realm  and  take  at  sea  what  herring  they  may,  bring  them  to  the 
fair,  receive  money  in  gold  for  what  they  shall  sell,  and  take  the  same 
\vith  them  whither  they  \vill,  as  they  shall  deem  for  their  best  advan- 
tage. By  K.  and  C. 

Et  erat  patens. 

[Fcedera.] 

To  the  sheriffs  of  London,  the  collectors  of  the  petty  custom 
and  the  searchers  of  forfeitures  in  that  port.  Like  order  to  suffer 
fishermen  from  foreign  parts,  who  shall  bring  eels  and  other  fresh 
fish  to  the  city  of  London  for  sale,  to  take  with  them  to  foreign  parts 


38    EDWAKB    III. 


31 


13G4.  Membrane  11 — cont. 

without  lot  all  nionoy  of  <:fold  which  thoy  shall  rocoivo  for  tho  salo  of 
such  eels  and  lish  by  wiinoss  of  tlioso  who  shall  liavo  knf)wlcdgo  of 
such  sale,  after  paying  tho  customs  due  thereupon,  the  proclamation 
to  the  contrary  notwithstanding.  By  K.  and  C. 

Et  ernt  jxttens. 

[Ibid.] 

Oct.  18.         Tho  like  \yT\t  patent  to  the  mayor  and  bailiffa  of  Randewich  and 

Dover.        tho  collectors  in  that  port  for  the  fishermen  of  Flanders  and  elsewhere, 

in  regard  to  money  of  gold  for  herring  and  other  fish  brought  to  that 

town  and  there  sold.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Ibid.] 

Sept.  20.  To  Richard  de  Sutton  escheator  in  Lancashire.  Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  9.9.  of  rent  of 
Margoiy  de  Dukworth  and  Cicely  her  sister  in  Dukworth  in 
Os Waldos twisel,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  since  the  death 
of  the  heir  of  Robert  de  Dukworth  an  idiot  ;  as  the  king  lately  ordered 
the  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  the  said  rent 
was  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  of  whom  it  was  held, 
and  by  his  certificate  it  is  found  that  the  said  rent  issuing  from  one 
bovate  of  land  in  Duk\vorth  aforesaid  was  so  taken  by  William  de 
Nessefold  late  escheator  for  that  the  said  heir  was  an  idiot  from  his 
birth,  that  the  said  Robert  at  his  death  held  the  same  in  fee,  that  it 
is  not  held  of  the  king,  and  that  the  said  idiot  died  on  Saturday  after 
St.  George  last. 


Membrane  10. 

Nov.  3.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne. 

Westminster.  Order  to  pay  to  Ralph  de  Neville,  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent, 
the  arrears  of  l\Sl.  12s.  ll^d.  yearly  from  the  death  of  Richard  de 
Denton,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  on  16  July  in  the  26th  year 
of  his  reign  the  king  granted  that  901.  10.?.  8d.  of  the  farm  of  the  town 
of  Nevvcastle  upon  Tyne  \\hich  of  the  king's  grant,  under  a  form  in  his 
letters  patent  contained,  John  Darcy  deceased  took  to  him  and  his 
heirs  for  the  life  of  Mary  countess  of  Pembroke,  and  which  ought  after 
her  death  to  revert  to  the  king  and  his  heirs,  should  remain  to  the  said 
Ralph  and  his  heirs,  and  that  27s.  0|rf.  which  the  said  Ralph  is  bound 
to  pay  the  king  at  the  exchequer  of  the  yearly  rent  of  51/.  75.  Ohd. 
issuing  from  the  cornage  in  Cumberland  after  the  death  of  the  said 
Richard,  who  took  that  rent  for  life  by  the  king's  grant,  according  to 
the  grant  thereof  made  by  the  king  to  the  said  Ralph  and  his  heirs 
after  Richard's  death,  should  likewise  remain  to  him  yearly  after 
Richard's  death,  in  part  of  120/.  of  land  and  rent  to  be  by  the  king 
given  to  the  said  Ralph  and  his  heirs  in  exchange  for  the  castle  and 
manor  of  the  Ermitage  in  Scotland,  extended  at  the  yearly  value  of 
120/.,  which  the  said  Ralph  then  gave  the  king  and  his  heirs  with  the 
royalties  liberties  etc.  to  the  same  belonging  ;  and  the  king  further 
granted  to  the  said  Ralph  that  he  and  his  heirs  should  have  every  year 
120/.  of  the  issues  of  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  said  port  by  the 
hands  of  the  collectors  or  farmers  thereof  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter 
by  even  portions,  namely  90/.  lO.s.  Sd.  until  that  yearly  sum  which  the 
said  John  took  of  the  said  farm  should  by  death  of  the  said  countess 
or  otherwise  come  to  his  hands,  27s.  O^d.  until  that  sum  should  by  death 


32 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364.  Membrane  10 — cont. 

of  the  said  Richard  or  otherwise  come  to  his  hands,  and  the  remaining 
211.  16s.  3|cZ.  until  the  king  or  his  heirs  should  make  provision  of  so 
much  a  year  of  land  and  rent  to  the  said  Ralph  and  his  heirs  ;  and 
the  said  275.  0|fZ.  has  come  to  his  hands  by  death  of  the  said  Richard, 
who  died  on  Wednesday  after  Palm  Sunday  in  the  37th  year  of 
the  reign. 

Nov.  5.  To  William  de  Frotheleye  escheator  in  Notynghamshire.     Order 

Westminstor.  to  deliver  to  Nicholas  Monbocher,  cousin  and  heir  of  Isabel  de  Chaunse, 
two  mills  upon  the  river  Idell,  namely  one  water  mill  and  one  fulling 
mill,  and  335.  of  rent  in  Grymston,  Wolhagh,  Kirketon  and  Walesby 
taken  into  the  king's  hands  by  the  death  of  John  de  Lungevillers 
knight  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  Nicholas,  and  so  in 
the  king's  hand,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since  5  May  last ; 
as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  Robert 
de  Morton,  Richard  de  Pensax  and  Jolm  Wheteleye,  that  the  said 
John  at  his  death  held  the  premises  for  life  of  the  demise  of  the  said 
Isabel  with  reversion  to  the  said  Nicholas,  then  a  minor  in  the  king's 
wardsliip,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king  ;  and  on 
proof  of  the  age  of  Nicholas  the  king  took  his  homage  and  fealty  and 
on  the  above  date  commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  all  lands  of 
his  heritage. 

Nov.  18.  To  the  justices  of  the  bench.  Order,  if  such  proceeding  be  taken 
Westminster,  before  them  as  alleged,  to  command  the  bishop  of  St.  Davids  by  writ 
de  judicio  to  stay  altogether  the  execution  of  the  king's  writ  to  him 
addressed  concerning  the  admission  of  Brian  Slomon  chaplain  to  the 
church  of  Landewy  Wilfray  in  the  diocese  of  St.  Davids  ;  as  lately 
the  king  by  letters  patent  presented  the  said  Brian  to  a  mediety  of  the 
said  church,  then  void  it  was  said  and  in  the  king's  gift  by  reason  of  the 
wardship  of  the  land  and  heir  of  Roger  de  Mortuo  Marl  earl  of  March 
tenant  in  chief  ;  and  now  the  king  is  informed  that  by  process  in  the 
king's  court  upon  a  ^rit  of  q^mre  impedit  obtained  at  the  suit  of  the 
said  Brian  in  the  king's  name,  that  William  Nichol  clerk,  incumbent  of  a 
mediety  thereof  claiming  no  right  in  the  patronage  of  the  church, 
should  suffer  the  king  to  present  to  the  whole  church,  the  right  of 
presentation  to  the  said  church  is  judicially  recovered  for  the  king, 
wherefore  command  is  given  to  the  said  bishop  by  writ  de  judicio 
to  admit  the  said  Brian  to  the  said  church  ;  and  it  is  not  right  nor 
reasonable  that  the  said  Brian,  being  presented  by  the  king  to  a 
mediety  thereof,  should  gain  any  benefit  by  judgment  rendered  upon 
a  writ  so  improvidently  obtained  for  the  advowson  of  the  whole 
church. 

Membrane  9. 

Oct.  20.  To  the  sheriff  of  Stafford.  Order  to  cause  Ralph  Basset  of  Dra5rton 
Westminstpr.  knight  to  have  seisin  of  a  toft  and  one  virgate  of  land  in  Waleshale 
held  by  Thomas  Pache  hanged  for  felony,  and  of  a  messuage  and  one 
virgate  and  a  half  of  land  in  the  same  town  held  by  John  Pache 
hanged  for  felony ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by 
the  sheriff,  that  the  premises  have  been  in  his  hand  a  year  and 
a  day,  that  the  said  Thomas  and  John  held  them  of  the  said  Ralph, 
that  they  are  yet  in  the  king's  hand,  and  that  the  townships  of 
Waleshale,  Barre,  Ruysshale  and  Wodnesbury  had  the  year  and 
a  day  and  the  \A'aste,  and  ought  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  same. 


38  EDWARD  FH. 


33 


13G4.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

Oct.  28.  To  <lie  collectors  of  customs  for  the  time  being  in  the  port  of 
Wostininster.  Samhvioh.  Order  to  pay  to  Hali)h  Rpi<^uriiell  the  arrears  of  100  marks 
yearly  since  7  July  last,  and  to  pay  him  that  yearly  sum  henceforward 
at  Kasl(M'  and  Michaelmas,  takintf  his  accjuittance  ;  as  on  that  (hiy  tlie 
king  of  Ills  favour  granted  the  said  Ralph  for  his  good  service  the  ward 
of  l)ovoii'e  castle  and  of  tlie  Cinque  Ports  for  ]if(>,  as  llobert  Herle 
deceased  had  the  same  in  his  life  time,  so  that  he  should  receive  of  the 
king  300/.  a  year  for  liis  maintenance  and  for  maintenance  of  chaplains, 
servants  and  watchuien  and  of  one  carpenter  dwelling  in  the  said  castle, 
and  for  their  gowns,  namely  IK)/,  of  the  castle  wards  thereto  pertaining, 
100  marks  of  the  customs  \\\  the  said  port,  and  the  remaining 
87/.  G.S.  Srf.  at  the  exchequer,  one  moiety  at  Michaelmas  tlie  other 
at  Fjaster,  so  long  as  he  shall  hold  that  wardship. 
[Fa'dera.] 

Oct.  30.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchec{uer  of  Dublin.  Order 
Westminster,  to  pay  of  the  treasury  of  Ireland  to  John  Haukyn  the  king's  Serjeant 
at  arms,  in  the  retinue  of  Lionel  duke  of  Clarence  the  king's  son  and 
lieutenant  in  Ireland,  25.  for  his  daily  wages  from  the  time  he  abode 
in  Ireland  on  the  king's  service  so  long  as  he  shall  there  abide,  taking 
his  acquittance.  By  C. 


Oct.  5. 

Dover. 


To  John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Kent  and  Sussex.  Order  to  cause 
William,  son  and  heir  of  William  Sepvans  tenant  in  chief,  to  have 
seisin  of  the  lands  of  liis  said  father  which  by  his  death  are  taken  into 
the  king's  hand ;  as  the  said  William  has  proved  his  age  before  the 
escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty. 

By  p.s.  [26415.] 

To  Roger  de  W^olfreton  escheator  in  Essex.  Like  order  ;  as  William 
son  and  heir  of  William  Sepvans  has  proved  his  age  before  John  de 
Tye  escheator  in  Kent.  By  p.s.  (the  same  writ). 


Nov.  16. 
Westminster. 


To  Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Order  not  to 
meddle  with  the  abbey  of  Thorneton  upon  Humbre,  now  void  by 
the  death  of  Robert  late  abbot,  or  with  its  members  during  this  vacancy, 
but  to  put  one  servant  to  keep  the  gate,  and  another  to  keep  the  guest 
hall  for  the  advantage  of  that  house  and  for  the  safety  of  the  goods 
therein,  saving  to  the  king  the  keeping  of  any  lands  held  of  him  which 
have  been  acquired  by  the  abbots  since  the  letters  patent  of  King 
Edward  I  ;  as  on  7  June  in  the  12th  year  of  his  reign,  on  the  finding 
of  an  inquisition,  taken  by  Thomas  de  Normanville  escheator  beyond 
Trent,  that  William  de  Fortibus  earl  of  Albemarle  and  his  ancestors, 
founders  and  patrons  of  the  said  abbey,  and  Edmund  the  then  king's 
brother  and  Avelina  his  wife  [who]  had  the  advowson  thereof,  used  to 
take  no  other  profit  in  the  abbey  or  its  members  in  time  of  a  vacancy 
but  only  to  give  licence  to  elect  after  the  abbot's  death  when  craved 
by  the  prior  and  convent,  and  to  put  one  servant  at  the  gate  and 
another  at  the  said  hall  during  a  vacancy,  ICing  Edward  I  of  his 
favour  granted  by  letters  patent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  for  him 
and  his  heirs  that  thenceforth  they  w^ould  claim  nothing  therein  at  any 
vacancy  other  than  the  said  patrons  used  to  have,  but  would  preserve 
the  abbot  and  convent  in  their  ancient  estate. 

E  3 


34 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364. 


Membrane  9 — cont. 


To  Thomas  de  Wythornwyk  escheator  within  the  liberty  of 
Holdernesse  co.  York.  Order  not  to  intermeddle  with  the  lands 
belonging  to  the  said  abbey  during  the  vacancy  thereof,  saving  to  the 
king  the  keeping  of  any  lands  held  of  him  which  the  abbots  have 
acquired  since  the  letters  patent  of  King  Edward  I ;  as  the  king  has 
ordered  the  escheator  in  Lincolnshire  etc.   (as  above). 

The  like  to  William  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Yorkshire. 


Nov.  5. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  24, 
Westminster. 


Membrane  8. 

To  William  de  Otteford  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.  Order  not 
to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Wengrave  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Margery  who  was  wife  of  William 
Pyppard,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Margery 
at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  demesne  nor  in 
service,  but  held  the  said  manor  as  jointly  enfeoffed  with  her  said 
husband  (likev.ise  deceased)  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Robert  Pyle 
chaplain  and  Robert  Holdyche  to  them  and  the  heirs  male  of  their 
bodies,  and  that  the  same  is  not  held  of  the  king. 

To  Edmund  Clieyne  keeper  of  the  islands  of  Jerneseye,  Gernerye 
{sic),  Serk  and  Aurneye.  Order,  at  his  peril,  to  be  before  the  king 
and  council  in  chancery  three  weeks  after  Easter  next,  to  inform  them 
of  the  cause  wherefore  the  e^perquerie  of  congers  and  custom  of 
mackerel  of  the  men  and  tenants  in  Gernereye  of  the  abbot  of 
Mont  St.  Michel  in  periculo  maris  was  taken  into  the  king's  hand, 
and  of  the  right  to  him  pertaining  therein,  which  day  has  been  given  to 
the  said  abbot  to  do  and  receive  what  shall  be  lawful  in  the  premises, 
so  that  by  absence  or  default  of  the  said  keeper  the  king  may  not  lose 
his  right,  and  in  case  the  said  keeper  has  made  any  process  against 
the  said  abbot  and  the  prior  of  Vallia  in  the  said  island  to  him  subject 
for  usurpation  or  occupation  in  time  past  of  the  esperquerie  and  custom 
aforesaid,  altogether  to  stay  such  process  until  debate  be  had  whether 
the  same  ought  to  pertain  to  the  king  or  to  the  abbot,  releasing  any 
distraint  for  that  cause  made  ;  as  on  behalf  of  the  said  abbot  it  is  shewn 
the  king  that  though  the  abbot  and  his  predecessors  time  out  of  mind 
were  in  possession  of  the  said  esperquerie  and  custom  without  any 
interference,  as  may  appear  by  the  record  and  process  of  a  plea  moved 
before  the  justices  in  eyre  in  the  said  islands  in  their  last  eyre,  the  tenor 
whereof  the  king  has  caused  to  come  into  chancery,  the  said  keeper 
of  his  own  will  without  due  process  has  newly  caused  the  said  abbot 
and  prior  to  be  thereof  ousted,  seizing  the  same  unlawfully  into  the 
king's  hand,  wherefore  the  said  prior  has  prayed  for  remedy. 

Nov.  22.  To  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester.  Order  to  cause  money  up  to  40Z.  to 
Westminster,  be  laid  out  by  view  and  testimony  of  the  abbot  of  St.  Peter 
Gloucester  upon  defects  as  well  in  Gloucester  castle,  in  walls,  turrets, 
buildings  etc.,  as  in  the  bridge  over  the  river  Severne  there  which  are 
in  greatest  need  of  repair ;  as  great  number  of  defects  therein 
much  need  repair.  By  K. 

To  the  abbot  of  St.  Peter  Gloucester.  Order,  with  the  sheriff  of 
Gloucester,  to  survey  the  defects  as  well  in  Gloucester  castle  as  in  the 


3S  KDWART)  TTT. 


35 


18G4. 


Membrane  8 — cont. 


bridge  over  Severne  tliere,  to  oversee  tlie  repairs  tlicreof,  and  to  give 
liis  witness  of  tlio  sum  to  be  laid  out  ujioii  tlicm  ;  as  the  king  has 
ordered  the  sherifT  to  lay  out  money  up  to  40/.  on  sueh  repairs.      By  K. 

Nov.  6.  To  John   de  Tye   escheator   in   Middlesex.     Order  not  to  meddlo 

Westminster,  further  w  ilh  a  messuage  and  70  acres  of  land  in  Herfeld,  and  20  acres 
of  land  ii\  Ikenliam  and  Hylynclon  taken  into  tlie  king's  hand  by 
the  death  of  Isabel  who  was  wife  of  Edmund  Dauvers,  delivering  up 
any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Isabel  at  her  death  held  no  lands 
in  that  county  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  premises 
in  name  of  dower  after  the  death  of  John  Swanlond  sometime  her 
husband,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

Nov.  10.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order,  upon  the 
Westminster,  petition  of  Thomas  Spigurnell,  to  account  with  him  touching  a  sum  of 
money  which  he  received  at  the  receipt  of  the  exchequer  for  a  journey 
to  Flanders  which  he  made  to  treat  with  the  late  count  of  Flanders, 
father  of  the  now  count,  concerning  a  contract  for  the  marriage 
of  the  now  count  with  Isabel  the  king's  daughter,  and  for  the  days  he 
stood  on  the  king's  service  going  to  Flanders,  there  abiding,  and 
returning  to  England,  to  allovv'  him  for  every  day  such  wages  as  they 
shall  find  allowed  heretofore  to  other  persons  of  his  estate  and  condition 
sent  by  the  king  upon  such  a  journey,  and  to  do  further  what  the 
nature  of  the  account  shall  require  ;  as  on  behalf  of  the  said  Thomas 
it  is  shewn  the  king  that  he  is  distrained  by  summons  of  the  ex- 
chequer to  account  for  the  said  sum,  and  that  though  he  is  ready 
so  to  account,  the  treasurer  and  barons  have  refused  without  com- 
mand of  the  king  to  admit  liim  so  to  do,  and  so  he  abode  long  time 
in  the  city  of  London  at  grievous  expense,  and  is  there  abiding  from 
day  to  day  to  the  damage  of  his  person  and  the  impoverishment  of 
his  estate.  Proviso  that  nothing  be  done  without  the  king's  special 
command  \\ith  the  surplus,  if  any.  By  C. 


Membrane  7. 

Nov.  10.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London  for  the  time  being.  Order  to  pay 
Westminster,  henceforth  to  Margaret  w^ho  was  wife  of  John  de  Pulteneye  for  her 
dower  the  third  part  of  a  rent  of  100  marks  every  year  at  Easter  and 
Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  taking  her  acquittance  for  such  pay- 
ments ;  as  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  the  said  rent  to  the  said 
John  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  namely  50/.  of  Queenhythe 
of  the  city  of  London  and  25  marks  of  the  farm  of  the  said  city. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Nov.  6.  To  William  de  Otteford  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire.     Order  to 

Westminster,  take  the  fealty  of  Richard  son  of  Reynold  de  Wygenhale  and  to  cause 
him  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage  and  land  in  Fordham  etc.  {as  above, 
p.  20)  ;  as  for  405.  for  his  marriage  paid  by  the  said  Richard,  who  is 
not  yet  married,  the  king  has  granted  him  that  he  may  marry 
whomsoever  of  England  he  will. 

Vacated,  because  otherwise  below  under  this  date. 

Nov.  9.  To  William  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Cumberland  and  Westmorland. 

Westminster.  Order  to  cause  Richard,  son  of  Thomas  de  Hale  and  Margaret  his 


36 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364'  Membrane  7 — cont. 

wife,  to  have  seisin  of  the  lands  which  his  said  father  held  of  his 
heritage  by  the  courtesy  of  England,  and  which  by  his  death  are 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Thomas  at  his  death  held  no 
lands  in  those  counties  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  by 
the  courtesy  of  England  certain  lands  in  Glassanby  and  Merghanby 
in  chief  by  homage  and  the  service  of  rendering  35.  4:d.  to  cornage 
at  the  exchequer  of  Carlisle,  certain  lands  in  Langholm  in  the  forest 
of  Inglewode  as  of  a  purpresture  of  that  forest  likewise  in  chief  by 
fealty  and  the  service  of  rendering  95.  at  the  said  exchequer,  and  divers 
other  lands  of  others  than  the  king,  all  of  the  heritage  of  Margaret 
sometime  his  wife,  daughter  of  Thomas  de  Neubiggyng  and  one  of 
the  heirs  of  John  Crokedayk  tenant  in  chief  of  the  late  king,  that  the 
said  Richard,  who  was  a  minor  at  his  said  father's  death,  is  next  heir 
of  the  said  Margaret,  and  now  of  full  age,  and  that  the  escheators 
have  by  reason  of  his  nonage  occupied  the  premises,  taking  the  issues 
and  profits  since  the  death  of  the  said  Thoma.s  de  Hale,  who  died  on 
Thursday  before  St.  Margaret  in  the  36th  year  of  the  reign  ;  and 
the  king  has  taken  the  homage  and  fealty  of  Richard,  who  is  not  yet 
married,  and  for  4  marks  by  him  paid  for  his  marriage  has  gi'anted  him 
that  he  may  marry  whomsoever  of  England  he  will. 

Nov.  26.  To  the  bailiffs  of  Great  Jernemuth.  Order  to  cause  diligent  search 
Wefitminstor.  to  be  made  of  all  ships  to  be  laded  vv^ith  herring  to  be  by  the  king's 
licence  taken  from  the  port  of  Jernemuth  and  of  Kirkeley,  that  no 
greater  load  of  herring  be  put  on  board  than  is  in  such  licence 
contained,  causing  all  herring  that  shall  be  found  on  board  beyond 
such  load  to  be  arrested  as  forfeit  and  safe  kept  until  further  order, 
and  certifying  such  arrests  in  chancery  from  time  to  time  ;  as  the  king 
has  made  order,  and  caused  proclamation  to  be  made,  forbidding  any 
man  to  take  or  cause  herring  to  be  taken  out  of  the  realm  without  his 
special  command,  and  he  is  informed  that  certain  who  have  licence 
so  to  do  put  on  board  the  ships  wherein  such  herring  is  laded  a  greater 
load  than  is  in  their  licence  contained.  By  K.  and  C. 

Nov.  26.  To  the  bailiffs  of  Great  Jernemuth.  Order  to  take  security,  for  which 
Westminster,  they  will  answer,  of  singular  the  owners  and  masters  of  ships  wherein 
herring  is  laded  to  be  taken  to  towns  or  other  places  within  the  realm, 
that  they  will  bring  such  herring  to  the  towns  and  places  whither  it 
is  to  be  brought  according  to  their  charter,  and  will  not  take  or  cause 
the  same  to  be  taken  out  of  the  realm,  and  that  they  will  bring  again 
within  a  set  time,  to  be  by  the  bailiffs  limited,  letters  of  the  lords  or 
bailiffs  of  the  towns  and  places  where  it  is  unladed  witnessing  the 
unlading  thereof,  not  suffering  ships  so  laded  to  pass  from  that  port 
until  such  security  be  given  ;  as  the  king  has  made  order,  and  caused 
proclamation  to  be  made,  forbidding  any  man  to  take  or  cause  herring 
to  be  taken  out  of  the  realm  without  his  special  command,  and  he  is 
informed  that  merchants  and  others,  who  cause  ships  and  boats  in  the 
port  of  Jernemuth  and  Kirkeley  to  be  laded  with  herring  to  be  taken 
to  divers  parts  within  the  realm  for  maintenance  of  his  people,  when 
at  sea  without  the  said  port  cause  great  part  of  such  herring  to  be 
brought  to  foreign  parts.  By  K.  and  C. 

Nov.  16.         To  the  sheriff  of  Northumberland.     Order  to  pay  to  Thomas  Rote, 
Westminster,  keeper  of  the  gaol  of  the    king's    castle   of   Newcastle    upon    Tine, 


38    EDWARD    HI. 


37 


13()4.  Membrane  7 — cont. 

47s.  4(/.  by  him  laid  out  upon  the  repair  of  the  said  gaol  for  safety 
of  the  prisoners  therein,  taking  his  acquittance.  By  K. 

Oct.  28.  To  Ralph  de  Neville  keeper  of  the  king's  forest  beyond  Trent,  or 

Westniinstor.  to  his  representative  in  Shirwode  forest.  Order  to  cause  the  wood 
of  Lanileye  within  the  bounds  of  that  forest,  which  is  of  Amice  who 
was  w  ifo  of  Ralph  de  Crom^\■ell  and  is  taken  into  the  king's  hand  for 
divers  trespasses  against  the  assize  of  the  forest  therein  committed, 
it  is  said,  if  replevisable  according  to  the  said  assize,  to  be  replevied 
to  the  said  A  mice  imtil  the  coming  of  the  king's  justices  for  pleas 
of  the  forest  in  that  county. 

Nov.  20.  To  Thomas  de  Brantyngham  the  king's  clerk,  treasurer  of  Calais. 
Westminster.  Order,  of  the  issues  of  iOrf.  a  sack  levied  and  taken  by  order  of  the  king 
and  council  for  repair  of  the  said  town,  to  pay  to  John  Phelippot 
and  AMlliam  Freman  of  ]^rakkele  searchers  of  forfeitures  at  Calais 
19/.  15.S.  lid.  to  them  due  from  the  king,  taking  their  acquittance  ; 
as  it  is  found  by  certificate  of  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the 
exchequer  of  England,  sent  into  chancery  at  the  king's  command, 
that  the  said  sum  is  due  to  the  said  John  and  William  by  their  account 
rendered  at  the  said  exchequer.  By  C. 

Nov.  6.  To  William  de  Otteford  escheator  in   Cambridgeshire.      Order  to 

Westminster,  cause  Richard  son  of  Reynold  de  Wygenhale  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage 
and  24  acres  of  land  in  Fordam,  which  came  to  the  king's  hand  by  the 
death  of  ^ViIliam  de  Wygenhale  of  Fordam  tenant  in  chief,  and  by 
reason  of  the  nonage  of  Thomas  his  son  and  heir,  and  are  in  his  hand  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
premises  came  to  his  hand  as  aforesaid,  that  the  said  Thomas  died  a 
minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  that  the  said  Richard,  a  minor  at  the  death 
of  Thomas,  is  his  cousin  and  next  heir,  and  is  now  of  full  age,  and  that 
by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  Thomas  and  Richard  answer  was  made  to 
the  king  by  the  escheators  for  the  time  being  for  the  issues  of  the 
premises  since  the  death  of  the  said  William,  who  died  20  September 
in  the  33rd  year  of  the  reign  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  the  fealty  of 
Richard,  and  respited  his  liomage  until  Midsummer  next,  and  for 
40s.  for  his  marriage  paid  by  the  said  Richard,  who  is  not  yet  married, 
the  king  has  granted  him  that  he  may  marry  whomsoever  he  will. 


Membrane  Q. 

Oct.  16.  To  Philip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  Staffordshire.  Order,  upon 
Westminster,  the  petition  of  Hugh  Tyrel,  brother  of  John  son  and  heir  of  Hugh  Tyrel 
tenant  in  chief,  to  cause  him  to  have  seisin  of  the  manors  of  Kynefare 
and  Storton  and  the  bailiwick  of  keeping  the  king's  forest  of 
Kynefare,  if  the  same  are  in  the  king's  hand  for  the  cause  alleged 
and  for  none  other,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since 
3  December  last ;  as  on  12  March  in  the  34th  year  of  his  reign,  upon 
proof  of  the  age  of  the  said  John,  the  king  took  his  fealty,  respited 
his  homage  for  the  lands  of  his  said  father,  and  commanded  livery 
thereof  to  be  given  him  ;  and  after  on  3  December  last,  the  said  John 
being  dead,  upon  proof  of  the  age  of  the  said  Hugh  his  brother  and 
heir  who  was  a  minor  at  John's  death,  the  king  took  his  fealty, 
respited  his  homage  for  the  lands  of  the  said  John,  and  commanded 
livery  thereof  to  be  given  liim  ;    and  now  the  said  Hugh  brother  of 


38 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364.  Membrane  6—cont. 

John  has  prayed  the  king  to  order  the  premises  to  "be  dehvered  to 
him  as  his  right  and  heritage,  as  the  said  Hugh  his  father  at  his  death 
was  thereof  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  the  said  manors  and 
baihwick  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  John 
(whose  heir  Hugh  is)  were  seized  into  the  king's  hand,  and  are  in  his 
hand  for  that  John  did  not  obtain  seisin  thereof  in  his  Ufe  time  ;  and  it 
is  found  by  divers  inquisitions,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  Hugh 
the  father  at  his  death  held  the  premises  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  in 
chief  by  the  service  of  rendering  to  the  king  91.  a  year  at  the  ex- 
chequer, and  that  by  the  king's  commission  and  by  reason  of  the 
nonage  of  the  heir,  Edward  atte  Wode  and  his  executors  have 
occupied  the  same,  taking  the  issues  and  profits  from  the  death  of 
Hugh  the  father,  who  died  29  January  in  the  17th  year  of  the  reign. 

Oct.  20.  Order  to  John  atte  Wode,  executor  of  Edward  atte  Wode,  not  to 
Westminster,  meddle  further  with  the  manors  and  bailiwick  aforesaid  by  colour 
of  any  commission  concerning  the  wardship  thereof  made  by  the 
king  to  hold  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  Hugh  brother  of  John, 
delivering  to  him  any  issues  thereof  taken  since  3  December  last  ; 
as  the  king  would  discharge  John  atte  Wode  of  the  wardship  from 
that  date. 

Nov.  28.  To  William  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Cumberland.  Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage  and 
8  acres  of  land  in  Corkeby,  a  messuage  and  the  moiety  of  one  acre 
of  land  in  the  Brigende  in  the  same  town,  and  a  messuage  and 
12  acres  of  land  in  Agillonby,  delivering  to  Richard  de  Salkeld  and 
Adam  Tounnam  of  Agillonby  any  issues  thereof  taken,  namely  to 
either  that  which  pertains  to  him  ;  as  the  king  lately  ordered  the 
escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  lands  of  the  said 
Richard  and  Adam  in  Corkeby  and  Agillonby  were  by  him  taken 
into  the  king's  hand,  and  he  returned  that  he  so  took  no  such  lands 
of  theirs  as  in  the  writ  supposed,  but  that  at  the  time  of  liis  succession 
to  that  office  William  de  Nessefeld  late  escheator  delivered  to  him 
by  indenture  the  premises  in  Corkeby,  wliich  Gilbert  del  Hill  held  by 
homage  of  the  king  as  of  the  fees  which  were  of  Andrew  de  Harcla 
late  an  adherent  of  the  Scots  and  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of 
Andrew's  forfeiture,  and  which  he  aliened  in  fee  to  the  said  Richard, 
the  premises  in  the  Brigende,  which  Isabel  daughter  of  Peter  de  Pesto 
of  Wederhale  held  by  homage  as  of  the  fees  aforesaid,  and  which  she 
aliened  to  the  same  Richard,  and  the  premises  in  Agillonby  which 
Simon  de  Corkeby  likewise  held  of  the  same  fees,  and  which  he 
aliened  in  fee  to  the  said  Adam  without  the  king's  licence,  and  that  all 
are  yet  in  the  king's  hand  for  that  cause  and  in  the  escheator's  keeping  ; 
and  in  the  parliament  holden  at  Westminster  in  the  first  year  of  the 
reign  it  was  ordered  that  thenceforth  no  man  should  be  impeached 
for  acquiring  lands  held  of  the  king  as  of  honours. 


Membrane  5. 

Nov.  4.  To  Thomas  Cheyne  escheator  in  Devon.     Order  not  to  intermeddle 

Westminster,  further  Avith  the  lands  which  John  de  Claville  at  his  death  held  of 

the  heir  of  Hugh  le  Despenser  tenant  in  chief,  late  a  minor  in  the  king's 

wardship,  and  ^^hich  by  death  of  the  said  John  and  by  reason  of  the 

nonage  of  William  his  sou  and  heir  were  taken  and  are  in  the  king's 


IW   i:i)\VAIM)  III.  .'{!) 


13()4.  Membrane  5. — cont. 

luiiul ;  as-  tho  said  Willi  iin,  son  of  the  said  John  who  was  tenant  by 
knight  siM'vice  of  the  said  heir,  has  ])i"oved  his  age  before  the  eseheator, 
and  oil  2()  Maieh  in  the  IKHh  year  of  the  icign,  on  jjroof  of  the  age  of 
Edward  le  Despenser  cousin  and  heir  of  the  said  Hugh,  the  king 
commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  the  lands  of  Hugh  his  undo. 

Nov.  2G.  To  Robert  do  Thorpe  and  his  fellows,  appointed  to  survey 
Westminster.  Huntyngdou  bridge,  which  has  been  long  ruinous  to  the  nuisance 
of  all  the  country  and  of  men  passing  by,  and  to  distrain  and  compel 
all  who  ought  and  are  used  so  to  do  to  repair  the  same.  Order  to 
proceed,  according  to  the  form  of  the  king's  commission  and  commands 
to  them  addressed,  to  cause  all  who  accoiding  to  a  judgment  de- 
livered in  the  e^'rc  of  John  do  Vallibus  and  his  fellows  are  bound  so 
to  do  to  repair  the  said  bridge,  a  charter  of  King  Henry  [III]  to  John 
earl  of  Chester  and  Huntyngdon,  and  the  king's  writs  thereupon 
made  and  to  them  addressed  notwithstanding  ;  as  lately  finding  by 
the  tenor  of  a  record  and  process  before  the  said  justices  in  eyre 
of  King  Edward  I  in  the  county  of  Huntyngdon,  which  are 
in  the  treasury  and  were  by  the  king  caused  to  come  before 
him  in  chancery,  that  the  said  bridge  ought  to  be  repaired  by 
the  commons  of  the  whole  county,  namely  by  the  four  hundreds 
of  Touleslond,  Leghtonstone,  Normancrosse  and  Hirstlyngstone, 
so  that  every  hundred  is  bound  to  make  its  share  thereof 
at  its  own  cost,  that  judgment  was  given  that  all  the  commons  of 
the  said  hundreds  were  in  mercy  for  that  the  bridge  was  then  and 
before  in  ruins  and  was  not  repaired,  and  that  the  sheriii"  was  ordered 
under  pain  of  forfeiture  of  100?.  to  cause  the  same  to  be  repaired  at 
the  cost  of  the  commons  of  the  county  within  a  time  then  and  there 
limited,  the  king  commanded  the  said  Robert  and  his  fellows  to  view 
the  record  aforesaid,  and  cause  all  the  men  of  the  said  hundreds  to  be 
compelled  and  distrained  to  repair  the  said  bridge  according  to  that 
judgment  ;  and  now  the  king  is  informed  that  the  said  Robert  and 
his  fellows,  to  the  peril  of  the  king,  the  commons  of  the  county,  and  of 
all  men  of  the  realm  w  ishing  to  pass  that  way,  have  deferred  to  proceed 
further  in  a  process  begun  before  them  touching  such  repair,  by  virtue 
of  a  writ  to  them  addressed  directing  them  to  suffer  the  men 
and  tenants  of  the  honour  of  Huntyngdon  to  use  and  enjoy  the 
liberties  and  quittances  in  the  said,  charter  contained,  whereby 
the  said  king  granted  to  the  said  earl  that  he,  his  heirs  and 
men,  tenants  of  the  said  honour  in  counties  or  bailiwicks  what- 
soever, should  be  quit  of  toll,  pontage,  shires,  hundreds,  aids  of 
sheriffs,  works  of  castles,  walls,  dikes,  parks,  bridges  and 
causeways,  and  of  all  custom,  demand  and  servile  toil ;  and  the 
king  takes  knowledge  thut  those  who  by  reason  of  their  tenure  ought 
and  are  used  of  old  time  to  repair  bridges,  causeways  etc.  ought 
not  to  be  discharged  thereof  by  any  charter  of  the  king  wherein  the 
charge  of  their  tenure  is  not  specified,  that  whereas  by  the  record 
of  the  said  eyre  it  is  clearly  found  that  the  commons  of  the  whole 
county  are  bound  to  repair  the  said  bridge  at  their  own  cost,  namely 
every  of  the  said  hundreds  for  its  own  portion,  no  part  of  the  commons 
and  hundreds  aforesaid  ought  to  be  excused  or  acquitted  of  the  repair 
thereof,  ^^'hich  is  acknowledged  to  be  to  the  common  advantage  and 
its  disrepair  to  the  common  hurt  of  the  whole  people,  by  the  said  genera] 
charter  granted  to  the  said  earl,  wherein  no  mention  is  made  of  the 


40 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364.  Membrane  5 — cont. 

manner  of  tenure  of  the  men  and  tenants  of  the  said  honour  nor  of 
the  charge  whereto  they  ought  to  submit  in  regard  to  such  repair, 
and  that  in  case  they  should  be  quit  tliereof  by  that  charter  the 
whole  charge  of  such  repair,  which  of  old  time  pertained  to  them,  vA'ould 
be  laid  upon  the  residue  of  the  commons  of  the  county,  wherewith 
the  other  men  of  the  county  might  nowise  be  charged  without  their 
common  assent,  so  that  for  default  of  the  men  and  tenants  of  the 
said  honour  the  bridge  should  remain  for  ever  in  ruins  unrepaired, 
to  the  peril  and  hurt  as  well  of  the  king  as  of  his  whole  people,  since 
the  public  passage  north  and  south  is  by  the  same.  By  C. 

[See  Calendar  of  Charter  Rolls,  III,   -p.  28L] 

Nov.  20.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order,  upon  the 
Westminster,  petition  of  Ralph  earl  of  Stafford,  to  search  the  rolls  and  memoranda 
of  the  exchequer,  and  if  they  shaU  find  that  560L  ISs.  3a!.  of  a  sum  of 
640L  185.  3t?.  is  due  from  the  said  earl,  to  allow  him  the  former  sum 
against  the  sum  due  to  him  from  the  king,  and  also  SOL  for  which  he  has 
made  fine  in  chancery  ;  as  the  said  earl's  petition  shews  that  he  is 
bound  to  the  king  in  48L  for  the  farm  and  wardship  of  the  manor  of 
Styuecle,  in  412/.  18«.  3cZ.  for  a  share  of  the  marriage  of  Thomas  brother 
and  heir  of  William  de  Roos  of  Hamelak,  in  lOOL  which  he  received  of 
the  treasury  as  a  prest,  and  in  SOL  by  which  he  made  fine  in  chancery 
for  the  said  Thomas  to  the  effect  that  he  might  enfeofi  Richard  de 
Stafford  clerk  and  John  de  Aymunderby  of  his  manor  and  castle  of 
Chilham  and  manor  of  Addirlegh  to  hold  under  a  set  form  in  the  king's 
charter  of  licence  contained,  and  that  divers  greater  sums  are  due  to 
him  of  his  yearly  fee  of  1,000  marks  to  him  granted  by  the  king  to  be 
taken  by  the  hands  of  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  ports  of  London 
and  Boston,  as  by  the  said  rolls  and  memoranda  may  appear. 


Dec.  10. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  3.* 

To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Berkshire.  Order  to  take  the 
fealty  of  Thomas  de  Langeford  according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule 
enclosed,  and  to  deliver  to  him  the  manor  of  Bradefeld  and  20L  of 
rent  in  Bastelesden  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Edmund 
de  la  Beche,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken,  but  not  to  inter- 
meddle further  with,  ten  messuages,  three  carucates  of  land,  10  acres 
of  pasture  and  40  acres  of  wood  in  Asshampsted,  Colrugge,  Aldeworth 
and  Compton  likewise  so  taken,  delivering  up  any  issues  taken  of  these 
last  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  the  said  Edmund  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in 
chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court 
Avith  his  licence  he  held  for  life  the  said  manor  and  rent  which 
are  held  in  chief,  with  remainder  to  Robert  de  la  Beche  and 
the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir 
to  John  de  la  Beche  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  remainder 
for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  William  de  la  Beche  and  the 
heirs  male  of  his  body,  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  said 
Thomas  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  that  the  said  Robert,  John  and 
William  are  dead  without  an  heir  male  of  their  bodies,  and  the  said 
Edmund  is  dead,  whereby  the  said  manor  and  rent  ought  by  virtue 
of  the  said  fine  to  remain  to  Thomas,  and  that  the  said  Edmund  at 

*  Membrane  4  is  blank. 


38    EDWARD    III. 


41 


1364.  Membrane  3 — cont. 

liis  death  likewise  held  the  residue  of  the  premises,  which  are  not  held 
of  the  king,  in  fee  tail  with  reversion  to  the  said  Thomas  ;  and  the  king 
has  taken  the  homage  of  the  said  Tliomas  for  the  maiior  and  rent 
aforesaid.  By  p.s.  [26465.] 

Dec.  2.  To  William  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Cumberland.     Order  to  take 

Westminster,  the  fealty  of  Robert  de  Bromfelde  according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule 
enclosed,  and  to  cause  him  to  have  seisin  of  a  purpresture  called 
Gresgarth  in  the  forest  of  Ingehvode,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the 
death  of  William  de  Bromefelde  his  father,  delivering  to  him  any 
issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  William  at  his  death  held  no  lands 
in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  whereby  the  wardship 
of  his  lands  ought  at  present  to  pertain  to  the  king,  but  held  the  said 
purpresture  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  in  chief  by  fealty  and  the  service 
of  rendering  I5d.  a  year  to  blanch  farm  at  the  exchequer  of  Karlioll, 
and  that  the  said  Robert  his  son  is  his  next  heir  and  of  the  age  of 
11  years. 

Nov.  20.  To  the  sheriff  of  Cambridge.  Order  of  the  king's  favour  to  restore 
Westminster,  to  John  Ryxspande  of  Westwrattynge  clerk,  unless  he  \\as  a  fugitive, 
the  lands,  goods  and  chattels  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  sheriff  ; 
as  the  said  John  was  lately  indicted  before  the  king's  justices 
concerning  the  theft  of  two  oxen  of  Henry  Cobbe  of  Weston  Colville 
price  135.  4rf.,  and  after  was  according  to  the  benefit  of  clergy  delivered 
by  the  justices  to  Simon  bisliop  of  Ely  the  ordinary  at  his  request, 
and  has  lawfully  purged  his  innocence  before  the  said  bishop,  as  the 
bishop  has  signified  to  the  king. 

Membrane  2. 

Dec.  7.  To  Richard  la  Vache  constable  of  the  Tower  of   London,  or  to  his 

Westminster,  lieutenant.      Order    to    receive    and    keep    in    safe  custody  in    the 

prison  of  the  said  Tower  until  further  order  William  de  Wenlok  clerk, 

whom  for  particular  causes  the  king  is  sending  to  him.     By  K.  and  C. 

[Feeder  a.] 

Dec.  6.  To  Richard  de  Widevylle   escheator   in  Norhamptonshire.      Order 

Westminster,  not  to  meddle  further  \\ith  the  third  part  of  the  manors  of  Stoke- 
bruere  and  Aldryngton  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  Alice  de  Staunton,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  Alice 
at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of 
fee  nor  in  service,  but  held  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee  the  third  part  of 
those  manors  of  others  than  the  king. 


Oct.  24.  To  Lionel  duke  of  Clarence  the  king's  son  and  lieutenant  in  Ireland, 
Westminster,  the  chancellor,  treasurer,  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  in  Ireland. 
Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Isabel  the  king's  daughter,  to  suiJer  her, 
according  to  the  form  of  the  king's  grant,  to  have  and  hold  without 
let,  quit  of  a  subsidy  of  the  issues  of  their  lands  in  Ireland 
[granted  to  the  king]  for  a  set  time  by  the  lords  of  lands  in 
Ireland  dwelling  in  England  for  furtherance  of  the  war  in  Ireland 
and    defence  of    their    lands    there,   all    the    lands    which  were    of 


42 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364.  Membrane  2 — cont. 

John  de  Haveryngton  tenant  in  chief  and  are  in  the  king's  hand  and 
in  her  wardship  by  his  grant,  restoring  and  dehvering  to  her  without 
deduction  all  issues  and  profits  thereof  taken  since  the  said  John's 
death,  the  grant  of  the  said  subsidy  notwithstanding  ;  as  lately  by  letters 
patent  the  king  granted  to  the  said  Isabel  the  wardship  of  all  the 
lands  of  the  said  John  as  well  in  England  as  in  Ireland,  which  are  in 
his  hand  by  John's  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir, 
with  the  issues  thereof  since  John's  death,  to  hold  until  the  lawful 
age  of  the  said  heir  ;  and  now  she  has  informed  the  king  that,  by 
reason  of  the  grant  of  the  said  subsidy,  the  said  lieutenant  and  others 
have  caused  all  the  issues  and  profits  of  the  said  lands  to  be  levied 
for  supporting  the  expenses  of  the  war,  wherefore  she  has  prayed 
for  remedy.  By  K. 

Membrane  1. 

Dec.  26.         To  the  sheriff  of  Roteland.     Order  to  cause  a  verderer  of  the  forest 

Windsor.      of  Roteland  to  be  elected  instead  of  William  Beaufo,  as  for  reasonable 

causes,  whereof  the  king  has  sure  information,  his  will  is  that  the  said 

William  be  removed  from  that  office.  By  p.s.  [26478.] 


Membrane  ^M. 

Jan.  27.         Robert  de  Harley  of  Salop  to  John  de  Delves  knight.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  80  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  the  county  of  Salop. 

Charter  of  John  de  Grey  of  Rothurfeld  knight  giving  and  warranting, 
with  the  licence  of  the  king  and  of  other  lords,  to  the  prior  and  brethren 
of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England  and  to  their 
successors  the  advowson  of  a  mediety  of  the  church  of  Derfeld  co. 
York.  Witnesses  :  Robert  de  S\\  ylyngton,  Robert  de  Neville  knights, 
William  de  Fyncheden,  William  de  Mirfeld,  Thomas  Dautre.  Dated 
Derfeld,  24  September  37  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
28  January  this  year. 


Jan.  31.         John  de  Mohun   lord    of    Dunster    knight    to    Bartholomew    de 
Westminster.  Burgherssh  knight.     Recognisance  for  2,000L,  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  cliattels  in  Somerset. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  Walter  de  Pavely  knight  and 
John  de  Gildesburgh  executors  of  the  said  Bartholomew. 

Bartholomew  de   Burgherssh  knight  to  John  de  Mohun  lord  of 
Dunster.     Recognisance  for  350  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Kent. 
Cancelled  on  'payment. 

Charter  of  William  son  of  John  Baud  late  knight,  giving  with 
warranty  to  John  de  Tameworth  of  Yakeslee,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
one  rood  of  land  in  a  place  called  Caleweliill  in  the  town  of  Lobenham 
with  the  advowson  of  the  church  every  second  turn.  Witnesses  : 
Richard  de  Foxton,  Richard  Mayheu  of  Deseburgh,  Simon  Warde, 
Thomas  Reyner,  Richard  de  Boriswerthe,  Wilham  Hulot,  Simon 
Hulot,  William  Leyf,  Hugh  Lodere.  Dated  London,  30  January 
38  Edward  III. 


3S    EDWARD    rU. 


43 


1304. 


Membrane  33rf — cont. 


Writing  of  William  son  of  John  Baud  late  knight,  being  a  hotter  of 
at forney  to  Richard  do  Foxton  and  Hugh  Lodere,  to  deliver  to  John 
do  Tanieworthc  of  Yakcsle  seisin  of  one  rood  of  land  in  Lobenham 
with  the  advowson  of  the  church,  according  to  his  charter.  Dated 
London  {ofi  the  laf^t). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and  letter, 
1  February. 

Writing  of  John  Tamcworthe  of  Yakesle  co.  Huntingdon,  being  a 
bond  in  2001.  to  ^Villiam  Baud,  son  of  John  late  knight,  with  condition 
for  payment  of  49^  at  Huntyngdon  on  12  February  next.  Witnesses  : 
Leo  de  Bradenhani,  Richard  Mayheu,  Richard  Foxton,  Henry 
Baker  of  Pelhani,  William  the  clerk.  Dated  London,  30  January 
38  Edward  IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  1  February. 

Feb.  4.  John  Nettelton  otherwise  called  John  Bonde  of  Yevelton  to  William 

Westminster,  de  Picwell  clerk.     Recognisance  for  20  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Somerset. 

Writing  of  John  son  and  heir  of  Sir  John  de  Goldyngton  knight, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Sir  Robert  de  Naillyngherst  clerk, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  lands,  rents  and  services  sometime  of  his 
said  father  in  the  towns  of  Colne  Engayne,  Great  Mapeltrestede, 
Little  Mapeltrestede,  Twynstede,  Pebenhersh,  Halsted  and  White  Colne, 
which  the  said  Robert  lately  had  jointly  with  Richard  his  brother 
of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  the  said  John  in  the  towns  aforesaid  or 
elsewhere  in  Essex.  Witnesses  :  Sir  John  de  Bourglicher,  Sir  Henry 
de  Coggeshale  knights,  William  Dureward,  Gerard  Huraunt,  Thomas 
atte  Park.     Dated  Halstede,  4  February  38  Edward  IIL 

Memorandum   of   acknowledgment,    5   February. 

Writing  of  Geoffrey  de  Folville,  being  a  surrender  to  John  Moubray 
knight  of  a  writing  of  Richard  de  Leycestre,  William  de  Burgh  and 
Lawrence  Hauberk  formerly  made  to  John  de  Folville  brother  of 
the  said  Geoffrey,  whose  heir  he  is,  granting  to  him  the  reversion 
of  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Wath  after  the  death  of  Maud 
who  was  wife  of  Robert  Marmion  knight,  by  virtue  whereof  the 
said  Maud  has  never  attorned  tenant  to  the  said  John  his  brother 
nor  to  Geoffrey  ;  also  a  release  to  the  said  John  Moubray  and 
his  heirs  of  the  same  moiety,  the  reversion  whereof  the  said 
Richard,  William  and  Lawrence  have  lately  granted  to  him  and  his 
heirs.  Witnesses  :  Simon  Pakeman,  William  de  Burgh  clerk,  William 
de  Louth teburgh,  John  Boteler,  William  Hauberk.  Dated  Monday 
the  feast  of  St.  Agatha  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  6  February. 

Feb.  25.         John  de   Lenedale   to   Geoffrey   de  Newenton.     Recognisance   for 
Westminster.  60L,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 

Surrey. 

Jan.  30.         To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  of  Dublin.     Order 

Westmmster.  to  cause  James  earl  of  Ormond  to  have  the  respite  which  the  king 

of  his  favour  has  given  him  for  his  good  service  for  a  term  of  three 


44 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS 


1364, 


Feb.  L 

Westminster. 


Feb.  8. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  IL 

Westminster. 


Membrane  SScZ — cont. 

years  of  all  debts,  farms  and  rents,  as  well  his  own  as  of  his  ancestors, 
now  demanded  of  him  to  the  king's  use  by  summons  of  the  exchequer, 
releasing  any  distraint  made.  By  K.   and  C. 

The  like  to  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  of 
England. 

Membrane  32c?. 

Charter  of  Thomas  son  and  heir  of  Henry  Peverel  knight  [militis), 
giving  with  warranty  to  Sir  Thomas  Tyrell  knight  of  Essex,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  his  manors  of  Midelton  and  Chelworth  co.  Suthampton 
and  all  lands  he  had  in  Boneyate,  Suthampton  and  Allyngton. 
Witnesses  :  Richard  Hangre,  John  Fraunk,  John  Aygnel,  Henry  le 
Olde,  Richard  Monek. 

Charter  of  Thomas  son  and  heir  of  Henry  Peverel  knight,  giving  with 
warranty  to  Sir  Thomas  Tyrell  knight  of  Essex,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
his  manor  and  advowson  of  Borescombe  co.  Wilts.  Witnesses : 
Thomas  de  la  Ryvere,  Thomas  Hungerford,  John  Harnham,  PhiUp 
Lusteshull,  Richard  de  Cnottynlegh.  Dated  Borescombe,  27  January 
38  Edward  III. 

Charter  of  Thomas  son  and  heir  of  Sir  Henry  Peverel  knight,  giving 
with  warranty  to  Sir  Thomas  Tyrell  knight  of  Essex,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  his  manors  of  Suthavene,  Northavene,  Manesbrigge,  Lyndhurst 
and  Penyton  co.  Suthampton.  .  Witnesses  :  Walter  Haiwode, 
Richard  Hangre,  John  Fraunk,  John  Aygnel,  Henry  le  Olde.  Dated 
Suthavene,  27  January  38  Edward  III. 

Charter  of  Thomas  son  and  heir  of  Sir  Henry  Peverel  knight,  giving 
with  warranty  to  Sir  Thomas  Tyrell  knight  of  Essex,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  his  manor  of  Bereford  co.  Wilts,  which  descended  to  the 
grantor  by  inheritance  after  the  death  of  his  said  father.  Witnesses  : 
Thomas  de  la  Ryvere,  Thomas  Hungerford,  John  Harnham,  Philip 
Lusteshull,  Richard  de  Cnottynglegh.  Dated  Bereford,  27  January 
38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charters, 
30  January. 

Walter  Scarle  to  Queen  Philippa.  Recognisance  for  20^,  to  be  levied, 
in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Roteland. 

Cancelled  on  'payment,  acknowledged  by  Richard  Eaveneser  late 
treasurer  of  the  said  queen. 

Thomas  archbishop  of  Dublin  to  David  de  Wollore  clerk.  Recog- 
nisance for  81.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Ireland. 

John  Michel  of  London  '  vynter  '  to  Robert  de  Littelton  of  Bristol. 
Recognisance  for  200/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  the  city  of  London. 

Writing  of  John  Laundels  and  WilUam  Cary,  being  a  quitclaim 
to  Thomas  Tirell  knight  and  Alice  his  A\ife  of  10  marks  of  rent  in 
Stanlake,  Norton  and  Brighthampton  co.  Oxford  late  of  Maud 
Erchedekne  and  Thomas  Sowy,  and  of  all  other  lands,  rents  and 
services   which   they   had   in    those   towns.     Witnesses :     Roger   de 


38    EDWARD    TIT. 


45 


1364. 


Feb.  8. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  13. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  32(Z — cont. 

Elinrygge,  Jolin  Nowcrs,  John  Tiillo  kniglits,  Robert  de  Elford,  Ralph 
FretevveJl.     ])atcd  Stanhake,   7  I^obruary  38   l^xhvard  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   11   February. 

Charter  of  John  Laundels  and  William  Gary,  granting  to  Thomas 
Tirell  knight  and  Alice  his  wife,  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  Thomas, 
10  marks  of  rent  in  Stanlake,  Norton  and  Brighthampton  eo.  Oxford 
late  of  Maud  p]rchedekne  and  Thomas  Sowy,  with  the  homages, 
rents  and  services  of  Edmund  (iilYard,  Thomas  atte  More,  John  Walkere, 
Thomas  Ohaloner,  Agnes  Brayes,  John  F'isshere,  Richard  Neel,  Ralph 
Seggeborwe,  William  Kirse  and  Walter  Freman,  and  all  other  lands, 
rents  and  services  which  they  had  in  those  towns  ;  also  that  a  messuage 
and  one  carucate  of  land,  held  for  life  by  Edmund  Giffard  in  those  towns 
with  reversion  to  the  said  John  and  William,  shall  after  his  death 
remain  to  the  said  Thomas  and  Alice,  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  Thomas. 
Witnesses  :  Roger  de  Elinbrigge,  John  de  Nowers,  John  Trillo  knights, 
Robert  de  Elford,  Ralph  Fretewell.  Dated  Stanlake,  20  November 
37  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  11  February  this  year. 

Walter  Haywode  to  Queen  Philippa.  Recognisance  for  20  marks, 
to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  the 
county  of  Suthampton. 

Nicholas  de  Berkele  knight,  Fulk  Corbet,  John  Cary,  John  Abadam 
and  William  Lovel  to  Richard  de  Ravensere  clerk.  Joint  and  several 
recognisance  for  40L  payable  by  instalments  ;  to  be  levied  etc.  in 
Gloucestershire. 


Feb.  20.         John  Bampton  of  Essex  to  Richard  de  Ravenser  clerk.  Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  100  marks  payable  by  instalments,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Essex. 
Memorandum  that  the  chancellor  received  this  recognisance. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Feb.  22.         William  Elys  of  Great  Jernemuth  to  David  de  Wollore.  Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  40  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Norfolk. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


Membrane  3ld. 

Indenture  of  John  de  Moumbray  lord  of  the  Isle  of  Axiholme  and  of 
Brembre,  son  and  heir  of  John  Moumbray,  confirming  a  grant  made 
by  his  said  father  to  Sir  Michael  de  Ponynges  knight,  Richard  de 
Cressville  clerk  and  Robert  Boteler  of  licence  to  give  and  assign  in 
mortmain  one  acre  of  land  in  Launtynge  (sic)  with  the  advowson  of 
the  church  of  him  held,  to  the  minister  and  convent  of  Modyngdenne 
and  to  their  successors,  and  to  the  said  minister  and  convent  to 
purchase  the  same,  willing  that  they  hold  the  same  of  the  said  John 
and  his  heirs  by  the  ancient  service  thereof  due,  and  may  appropriate 
the  said  church,  and  disagreeing  with  the  claim  to  the  premises  made 
by  any  his  ministers  in  Sussex  in  his  absence  as  if  the  purchase  had  been 
made  without  licence,  and  further,  for  the  prayers  and  works  of  charity^ 
to  be  performed  by  the  said  minister  and  convent  and  by  their  successors 
for  the  said  John,  his  ancestors  and  heirs,  binding  himself  and  his  heirs 
for  warranty  of  the  premises,  and  for  further  assurance  covenanting 


46  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


13G4.  Membrane  ^\d — cont. 

that  within  one  year  a  writ  of  right  shall  be  brought  in  his  name  against 
the  said  minister  and  convent  wherein  he  will  count  of  his  seisin  of 
the  premises,  which  seisin  shall  be  gainsaid  and  tried,  until  at  final 
issue  of  the  plea  and  judgment  rendered  he  will  in  court  make  his 
attornment  thei'eof  within  one  month  after  warning  received,  so  that 
his  seignory  in  the  premises  be  saved  in  law  by  advice  of  counsel 
on  either  side  the  said  suit  and  judgment  notwithstanding,  and  that 
all  reasonable  costs  be  borne  by  the  said  minister  and  convent. 
Dated  Launcynge,  Saturday  before  St.  Andrew  37  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  15  February 
this  year. 

Indenture  of  the  minister  and  convent  of  Modyngdenne,  granting 
that  Sir  John  de  Moumbray  lord  of  the  Isle  of  Axiholme  and  of 
Brembre,  son  and  heir  of  John  Moumbray,  nor  his  heirs  shall  not 
by  force  of  his  deed  indented  confirming  to  them  one  acre  of  land 
in  Launcynge  with  the  advowson  of  the  church  be  bound  to  warranty 
of  the  premises  if  "in  time  to  come  they  be  thereof  impleaded  by  any 
other  but  the  said  Sir  John  and  his  heirs,  saving  ahvays  that  the 
warranty  in  the  said  deed  contained  shall  be  effectual  to  bar  any  action 
of  the  said  Sir  John  or  of  his  heirs.  Dated  Launcynge,  Sunday  after 
St.  Andrew  37  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  15  February 
this  year. 

Feb.  IG.         John  Leycestre  of  Worcestershire  to  Queen  Philippa.    Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  \Ql.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Worcestershire. 

Cancelled  on  'payment,  acknowledged  by  Richard  Raveneser  late 
treasurer  of  the  said  queen. 

(Feb.  17.         John  Hay  of  Sutton  Basset  to  Queen  Phihppa.     Recognisance  for 
Westminster.  40Z.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  the  county  of  Suthampton  {sic). 

Feb.  15.  To  the  sheriff  of  Suffolk.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Philip  de 
Westminster.  Bockyng  clerk,  to  stay  the  further  publication  of  the  exigents  against 
the  said  Philip  and  the  taking  of  liis  body  by  the  mainprise  of  Robert 
Turk  and  Richard  de  Shardelowe  of  the  city  of  London,  having  this 
writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  on  the  day  the  writ  de  judicio 
v.'hereby  he  was  put  in  exigents  is  returnable  ;  as  his  petition  shews 
that  Adam  Hautbo5^s  parson  of  Cokefeld  and  John  de  Pishale  parson 
of  Alderton  are  impleading  him  before  the  said  justices  for  payment 
,  of  81.,  that  he  is  put  in  exigents  for  that  he  came  not  before  them  to 

answer  concerning  that  debt,  and  that  he  is  ready  to  stand  to  right 
in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Robert  and  Richard,  appearing  in  person 
in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  101.  to  have  the  body 
of  the  said  Philip  before  the  said  justices  on  the  day  named  to  answer 
as  aforesaid. 

Feb.  23.         Robert  Vynter  to  David  de  Wollore  clerk.     Recognisance  for  20?., 
Westminster,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Kent. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

March  4.         Simon   Danyel  to  John   Bryklesworth   of  London.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  30?.,  to  be  levied  etc,  in  Essex. 


38  EDWARD  III.  47 


13(34.  Membrane  30d. 

Indenture  of  accord  between  tlie  abbot  and  convent  of  Bonrepos 
{de  Bona  Rcqvie)  in  Rrittany  and  tlie  abbot  and  convent  of  Sawtry 
(SalUria),  upon  a  debate  between  them  moved,  namely  toucihing  a 
yearly  farm  of  80  marks  (planned  by  the  abbot  and  convent  of  JJonrepos 
for  tiie  churches  of  Fulborne,  Hunygham,  Costeseya  and  Fendrayton 
by  a  \\Titing  produced  under  the  name  of  the  abbot  and  convent  of 
Sawtrv,  which  wiiting  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Sawtry  altogether 
denied,  setting  forth  another  \niting  of  the  abbot  and  convent  of 
Bonrepos  of  prior  date  containing  that  they  had  the  said  churches 
at  a  yearly  fee  farm  of  GO  marks  only,  which  writing  the  abbot  and 
convent  of  l^onrepos  do  not  acknowledge  ;  whereupon  by  the  interven- 
tion of  friends  the  parties  liave  agreed  that  the  abbot  and  convent  of 
Sawtry  shall  render  for  the  farm  of  those  churclies  60  marks  a  year  which 
they  acknowledge  to  be  due  of  old  time,  and  10  marks  more,  the  said 
70  marks  to  be  paid  on  the  feast  of  the  Beheading  of  St.  John  Baptist 
or  the  eighth  day  after  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Bonrepos  or 
to  their  proctor  in  the  cathedi-al  church  of  St.  Paul  in  the  city  of  London 
before  the  cross  '  atte  Northdore  '  ;  and  for  better  security  thereof 
the  abbot  of  Sawtrj'^  or  his  successors  shall  by  himself  or  his  attorneys 
appear  to  a  writ  to  be  by  the  abbot  of  Boniepos  or  his  successors 
brought  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  on  the  morrow  of  Midsummer 
next,  and  shall  acknowledge  tliis  deed,  so  that  the  abbot  of  Bonrepos 
shall  recover  in  court  the  yearly  rent  aforesaid  ;  and  the  abbot 
and  convent  of  Bonrepos  grant  that  if  the  abbot  of  Sawtry  shall 
acknowledge  this  writing,  and  shall  pay  the  rent  as  aforesaid,  a 
recognisance  in  chancery  for  40  marks  made  by  the  abbot  of  Sawtry 
to  the  abbot  of  Bonrepos  shall  remain  witliout  execution,  otherwise  the 
same  shall  be  put  in  execution  ;  and  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Sawtry 
grant  that  in  case  of  any  default  they  are  bound  to  pay  40  marks  within 
15  days  of  such  default,  binding  themselves  and  their  successors 
and  all  their  goods  to  pay  the  said  yearly  farm  of  70  marks  and  to 
observe  all  other  the  covenants  aforesaid,  the  abbot  and  convent 
of  Bonrepos  granting  for  them  and  their  successors  that  henceforth 
they  will  claim  no  greater  farm  than  70  marks,  but  that  the  abbot 
and  convent  of  Sawtry  shall  have  and  hold  the  said  churches  for 
ever  for  that  farm.  Dated  London,  the  feast  of  St.  Valentine  1363. 
These  presents  notwithstanding,  the  abbot  of  Sawtry  owes  20  marks 
to  the  abbot  of  Bonrepos  in  full  of  40  marks  payable  at  Midsummer 
next  as  appears  by  the  said  recognisance  ;  also  11/.  18s.  2d.  at  the 
same  feast  in  full   of   1211.   8s.   2d.    {sic). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  iDoth  abbots,  for  themselves 
and   their  convents,    20  February. 

Memorandum  that  on  Midsummer  day  aforesaid  the  abbot  of  Sawtry 
came  here  in  court,  and  paid  to  the  abbot  of  Bonrepos  20  marks  in  full 
of  40  marks,  ivherefore  the  said  recognisance  is  cancelled,  also 
111.  18s.  2d.  in  full  of  1211.  18s.  2d.  mentioned  at  the  end  of  this  indenture. 

Writing  of  John  Bays  of  Yevele,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Guy  de  Bryene 
knight,  John  de  Sancto  Laudo  the  elder  knight,  Robert  Couele  parson 
of  Slyinbrugge,  John  de  Mersshton  and  Walter  Laurens  and  to  their 
heirs  of  the  manors  of  Westbaggeburgh,  Thornesfaucon,  Chelvy, 
Merygge  and  Beere  Craucombe,  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Wynsford, 
a  messuage  and  one  carucate  of  land  in  Hisbere  and  Seinte  Marie 
Bokelond,  and  the  advowson  of  Wandestre  church.  Dated  29  February 
38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  London, 
1  March. 


48  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364.  Membrane  SOd — cont. 

April  15.  To  Richard  la  Vache  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London,  or  to  his 
Westminster,  lieutenant.  Order  to  survey  the  defects  in  a  water  or  river  running 
from  the  town  of  Ware  to  the  town  of  Waltham  and  thence  to  the 
Thames  near  the  said  Tower,  and  to  cause  the  same  to  be  corrected 
and  amended  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  that  such  defects,  which  ought 
and  used  to  be  repaired  by  the  constable  for  the  time  being,  are  many, 
whereby  (unless  speedily  repaired)  peril  and  hurt  may  be  feared 
as  well  to  the  king  as  to  his  people.  The  king  has  commanded  the  sheriffs 
of  Hertford,  Essex  and  Middlesex,  every  one  of  his  bailiwick,  to  cause 
etc.  to  come  before  the  constable  at  a  set  time  and  place,  whereof  he 
shall  give  them  notice,  by  whom  the  same  may  be  repaired,  the  truth 
known,  and  inquisition  made.  By  K. 

Et  erat  patens. 

[Feeder  a.] 

Writing  of  Richard  son  of  John  de  Lilleye  of  Ealdynge  co.  Kent, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Nicholas  abbot  of  Westminster 
and  the  convent  and  to  their  successors  of  the  manor  of  Westerham 
CO.  Kent.  Witnesses  :  Richard  Rook  the  elder,  Richard  Rook  the 
younger,  Peter  le  Bocher,  William  Colyn,  Robert  de  Hakebourne, 
John  le  Cook,  Roger  de  Sudbury,  William  de  Harleston.  Dated 
Westminster,  18  April  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandvm  of  acknowledgment,   19  April. 

April  6.  To  J.  bishop  of  Bath  and  W^ells.     Order  to  grant  to  John  de  Querneby 

Windsor.  the  king's  clerk  such  yearly  pension  as  may  befit  the  giver  and  should 
bind  the  receiver  to  him,  making  to  the  said  clerk  letters  patent  thereof 
under  his  seal,  and  writing  again  by  the  bearer  what  he  shall  think 
fit  to  do  at  this  request ;  as  by  reason  of  his  new  creation  the  said  bishop 
is  bound  to  one  of  the  king's  clerks,  to  be  by  the  king  named,  in  a  yearly 
pension  until  he  shall  provide  such  clerk  with  a  competent  benefice, 
and  the  king  has  named  the  said  John,  whose  advancement  he  has  at 
heart.  By  p.s.  [26288.] 

Membrane  2^d. 

Indenture  made  between  the  king  of  the  one  part  and  Thomas 
abbot  of  St.  Albans  and  the  convent  of  the  other  part,  being  a  release 
and  quitclaim  by  the  king,  for  divers  lands  in  Abboteslangeleye  which 
the  abbot  and  convent  have  granted  him  in  recompense  thereof,  of 
a  corrody  in  the  abbey  for  one  of  his  people,  taking  as  much  as  a  monk 
of  that  house,  which  the  king  claims  to  have  because  the  abbey  is  of 
the  foundation  of  his  forefathers  and  of  his  own  patronage,  wherefore 
by  wTit  of  his  great  seal  he  sent  to  Richard  sometime  abbot  to  grant 
maintenance  for  life  to  Isabel  atte  Helde,  who  was  received  and  had 
the  same  during  her  life,  and  after  her  death  the  like  was  granted 
by  the  said  abbot  at  the  king's  command  to  Robert  Albyn,  and  after 
the  like  was  granted  to  Hugh  Treganon  for  life,  the  king  reciting  in  his 
writs  sent  to  the  same  abbot  how  he  had  granted  this  to  the  said 
Hugh  before  the  grant  to  the  said  Robert,  and  had  revoked  the  grant 
to  the  said  Robert,  and  after  the  death  of  Hugh  the  like  was  granted 
to  W^alter  de  Denham  for  life  by  a  writ  to  Michael  sometime  abbot, 
and  after  the  death  of  the  said  Walter  to  Henry  de  Burton  by  the 
said  abbot  Thomas,  and  after  the  death  of  Henry  they  received  William 
Cheupayn  otherwise  called  Robert  Fool  to  the  like  maintenance  in 


38    EDWARD    III. 


49 


1364. 


Membrane  29cf — cont. 


riglit  of  the  king  as  patron  and  founder  ;  the  king  granting  that  the 
abbot  and  convent  and  their  successors  shall  not,  after  the  death 
of  \ViIliam  Cheupayn  otherwise  Robert  Fool,  be  charged  with  the  said 
corrody  and  maintenance,  nor  may  he  and  his  heirs  in  time  to  come 
have  any  right,  action  or  claim  by  reason  thereof,  and  that  this  quit- 
claim is  made  of  the  king's  sure  knowledge  and  free  will,  and  shall 
take  effect  though  no  process  be  sued  by  writ  of  ad  quod  damnum 
thereupon,  and  for  the  lands  aforesaid  ;  and  for  this  quitclaim  the  abbot 
and  convent  have  granted  to  the  king  and  his  heirs  the  ditch  and  hay 
between  the  king's  park  of  Langeleye  and  the  fields  of  the  abbot  and 
convent  called  Wodefeld  and  Whippeden,  extending  from  the  hay  of 
Whippedcn  field  on  the  west  to  the  king's  park  ditch  to  the  east,  and 
containing  in  length  2241  perches  2y  feet  b)^  the  rod  of  16|  feet,  and  all 
their  lands  in  Langeleye  newly  enclosed  with  paling  by  the  king,the  paling 
whereof  on  the  south  side  of  the  enclosure  begins  at  the  water  of  Gateseye 
opposite  the  corner  of  the  king's  park  of  Langeleye  enclosed  of  old  time 
and  extends  eastward  to  a  marl  pit  in  Waterfeld  containing  in  length 
40  perches  11  feet  by  the  measure  aforesaid,  and  from  the  said  pit 
northward  to  Bricescroft  near  the  hay  of  the  high  street  from  Watford 
to  Berkliampstede  in  length  224  perches  by  the  same  measure,  and 
from  the  said  croft  westward  to  the  said  water  in  length  40  perchea 
11  feet  by  the  same  measure,  saving  to  the  abbot  and  convent  all 
lordships,  rights  and  liberties  as  before  in  lands  and  places  outside 
the  said  enclosure.  Witnesses  :  Sir  John  atte  Lee,  Sir  Edward  de 
Kendale,  Sir  Edward  Fitz  Simond,  Sir  Thomas  atte  Hoo,  Sir  John  de 
Bassyngboume,  Thomas  Fytlyng,  Ralph  Cressy,  John  de  Somersham. 
Dated  Westminster,  14  February  38  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  that  one  part  of  this  indenture  sealed  by  the  abbot 
and  convent  was  delivered  to  Richard  de  Chesterfeld  one  of  the  king's 
chamberlains  to  put  in  the  treasury  as  usual  for  safe  custody. 

Feb.  25.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Faversham.  Order,  for  sure  causes, 
Westminster,  under  pain  of  forfeiture,  not  to  suffer  any  horses,  hawks,  woollen 
or  linen  thread,  bows,  arrows,  bowstrings  or  other  arms  without  the 
king's  special  command  to  be  taken  out  of  the  realm,  causing 
proclamation  to  be  made  forbidding  under  pain  of  forfeiture  any  man 
of  whatsoever  condition  so  to  take  or  cause  the  same  to  be  taken, 
making  search  in  all  ships,  great  and  small,  and  all  boats  about  to  pass 
from  the  port  of  that  town  that  no  such  thread,  bows,  arrows,  strings 
and  arms  be  put  or  hidden  therein,  arresting  and  safe  keeping  until 
further  order  all  horses,  hawks,  bows,  arrows,  bowstrings  and  arras 
so  found  after  the  proclamation,  with  the  ships  and  boats  wherein  they 
are  put  and  the  men  who  put  them  there,  and  certifjdng  the  king  from 
time  to  time  in  chancery  under  seal  of  their  action.  By  K.  and  C. 
[Feeder  a. '] 

The  like  to  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Suthampton  and  of  three  other 
towns,  the  sheriffs  of  London,  and  to  Robert  de  Herle  constable  of 
Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports  or  to  his  lieutenant. 

[Ihid.-] 


April  10.         Richard  atte  Lese  and  William  Vaux  of  Maydestan  to  Henry  de 
Westminster.  Gosebourne  and  John  his  brother.     Recognisance  for  40Z.,  to  be  levied, 
in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Kent. 

E  4 


50  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364.  Membrane  29c? — cont. 

April  12.        John  Leukenore  of  Sussex  to  Nicholas  de  Lovayne  knight.     Recog- 
Westminster.  nisance  for  201.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Sussex. 

April  21.         John  de  Northwode  knight,  son  and  heir  of  Roger  de  Northwode 
Westminster,  knight,  to  Roger  de  Northwode  knight  his  brother.     Recognisance 
for  55L,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Kent. 

Membrane  28i. 

Writing  of  William  de  Chiselden  of  Wilts,  giving  with  warranty 
to  Richard  le  Parker  of  Kings  Langeleye  and  Alice  his  wife  and  to  the 
heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  Richard  his  estate  in  the  lands,  mills, 
meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  woods,  rents  and  services  sometime 
of  Thomas  Cheyndust  in  Kings  Langeleye  and  Hemelhamstede, 
rendering  to  Emma  who  was  wife  of  the  said  Thomas  for  her  life  6  marks 
a  year  at  Easter,  Midsummer,  Michaelmas  and  Christmas  by  even 
portions,  and  after  the  death  of  the  said  Emma  5  marks  a  year  at 
the  same  terms  to  Joan  Cheyndust  her  daughter  for  her  life,  as  by 
indentures  made  between  the  said  William,  Emma  and  Joan.  Dated 
Kings  Langeleye,  Sunday  before  St.  Gregory  38  Edward  III. 
Witnesses  :  John  Cheyne  knight,  John  de  Chilterne,  John  Castre, 
John  Carpenter,  William  atte  Hach. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  London, 
12  March. 

Writing  of  Richard  Parker  of  King's  Langeleye,  being  a  release 

to  William  de  Chiselden  of  Wilts  of  all  actions  for  \\'arranties  of  the 

ands    sometime    of   Thomas   Cheyndust    of   Kings    Langeleye    and 

Hemelhamstede.     Dated   London,   Monday   after   the     Annunciation 

38  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  London,  16  April. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Coun  knight,  being  a  general  release  to  Simon 
de  Neuton  '  esquier,'  his  heirs  and  executors,  of  all  actions  real  and 
personal.     Dated  London,   14  March  38  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  London,   14  March. 

Writing  of  Simon  de  Neuton  '  esquier,'  being  a  like  release  to  Thomas 
Coun  knight,  his  heirs  and  executors.      Dated  {as  the  last).     French. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  London,   15  March. 

Writing  of  Thomas,  son  and  heir  of  Henry  Peverel  knight  [militis), 
granting  with  warranty  to  Thomas  Tyrell  knight,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  the  reversion  of  the  manor  of  Suthavene  co.  Suthampton, 
now  held  in  dower  by  John  de  Sully  knight  and  Isabel  his  wife  for  her 
life  of  the  heritage  of  the  said  Thomas  son  of  Henry,  with  reversion 
to  him  and  his  heirs.  Witnesses  :  Walter  de  Haywode,  John  de 
Estbury,  John  Wydegod,  Richard  Angre,  John  Frank,  Richard  Monek, 
John  London.     Dated  London,   12  April   38  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Thomas,  son  and  heir  of  Henry  Peverel  knight,  being 
a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Thomas  Tirell  knight,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  all  manors,  lands  etc.  which  the  said  Thomas  Tirell  has 
of  his  gift  in  the  towns  of  Bereford  and  Borescombe  co.  Wilts,  and  of 


38  EDWARD  III. 


61 


18()4. 


Membrane  2Sd — cont. 


Suthavene,  Northavene,  Midolton,  Penyton,  Lyndhurst,  Suthamp- 
ton,  Maiiesbriggc,  Alyngton,  Boncyate,  Cheleworth  and  Romesey  co. 
Suthampton.  Witnesses  :  Robert  de  la  Mare,  Lawrence  de  Sancto 
Martino  knights,  Thomas  de  Hungerford  and  others  of  Wilts,  Walter 
de  Haywode,  Jolin  Wydegode,  Richard  Angre,  John  Frank  and  otliers 
of  the  county  of  Suthampton.  Dated  London,  12  April 
38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings, 
15  April. 

Writing  of  Roger  de  Northwode  knight,  son  of  Sir  Roger  de 
Northwode  knight,  being  the  defeasance  of  recognisance  to  him  made 
by  Sir  John  de  Northwode  knight  his  brother,  son  and  heir  of  his 
said  father  [above,  p.  50),  upon  condition  that  Sir  John,  his  heirs  or 
executors,  pay  101.  at  Michaelmas  next.  Si.  at  All  Saints  following, 
and  lOZ.  at  the  Purification  following.  Dated  Tuesday  the  feast 
of  St.  George  38  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   24  April. 


Membrane  21  d. 

April  18.         Agnes  de  Northwode  to  Peter  de  Stonhurst.     Recognisance  for  40^, 
Westminster,  to  be  levied,  in.  default  of  payment,  of  her  lands  and  chattels  in  Kent. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon  condition 
that  Peter  de  Stonhurst  may  peaceably  hold  and  enjoy  the  manor 
of  KateshuU  which  Agnes  de  Northwode  has  by  indenture  leased 
to  him  for  20  years,  with  the  rents  and  services  of  all  her  tenants 
in  Erdington  ;  the  said  Peter  further  granting  licence  to  the  said  Agnes 
or  her  heirs  to  alien  the  said  manor,  rents  and  services,  saving  the  term 
aforesaid  to  him,  his  heirs  and  executors,  and  that  if  Agnes  die  within 
that  term  leaving  an  heir  within  age,  whereby  the  king  shall  seize 
the  wardship  thereof,  she  nor  her  heirs  shall  take  no  hurt  by  reason  of 
the  said  recognisance.  Dated  Westminster,  19  April  38  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  19  April. 

April  20.         Thomas  de  Haselden  of  Yorkshire  to  Queen  Philippa.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  40  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Yorkshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  Richard  de  Eaveneser  clerk, 
the  said  queen's  attorney. 

April  5.  To  the  collectors  of  the  petty  custom  in  the  port  of  London,  and  the 
Westminster,  searcher  of  forfeitures  in  the  same.  Order  to  make  search  as  well 
on  water  as  on  land  of  all  persons  passing  in  ships  and  boats  from 
the  said  port  and  singular  the  creeks  and  places  near  the  same,  that  they 
do  not  without  the  king's  special  licence  and  command  take  with  them 
from  the  realm  gold  or  silver  in  coined  money,  the  mass,  plate,  vessels, 
je\A'els  or  otherwise,  arresting  and  safe  keeping  until  further  order 
all  such  gold  and  silver  found  in  ships  or  boats  about  to  pass  without 
licence  to  foreign  parts  with  the  persons,  ships  and  boats  wherewith  and 
wherein  the  same  shall  be  found,  and  giving  the  king  knowledge  in  chan- 
cery from  time  to  time  of  such  arrests  ;  as  many  merchants,  pilgrims 


52  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364.  Membrane  21d — cont. 

and  others,  fearing  not  forfeiture  as  the  king  has  learned,  have  so 
taken  and  do  daily  take  gold  and  silver,  though  the  king  lately  caused 
proclamation  to  be  made  in  singular  the  cities,  boroughs,  ports, 
towns  and  seaward  places  of  the  realm  forbidding  any  man  so  to  do 
under  pain  of  forfeiture.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Fcedera.] 

The  like  to  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  and  the  collectors  in  Sandwich 
and  six  other  cities  and  towns,  the  collectors  and  bailiffs  of  Boston 
and  Great  Jernemuth,  the  bailiffs  of  Ravensere  and  79  other  towns  and 
places,  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Grymesby  and  two  other  towns, 
the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Lenne  on  either  side  of  the  port 
and  the  collectors  there,  the  sheriffs  of  London,  William  de  la  Vale 
chamberlain  of  Berwick  upon  Twede,  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  and  the 
collectors  there,  and  to  the  prior  of  Tynemuth  and  the  bailiffs  of  the 
town  of  Sheles. 

[Ibid.] 

April  28.  To  Thomas  Cheyne  escheator  in  Devon.  Order  not  to  proceed 
Westminster,  to  take  any  inquisition  affecting  the  manor  of  Sulferton  mthout  the 
presence  of  John  Meriet  knight  or  of  his  attorney  ;  as  lately  the  king 
granted  to  Queen  Philippa  the  wardship  of  all  lands  which  were  of 
John  de  Bello  Campo  of  Somersete  tenant  in  chief  and  are  in  the 
king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  to 
hold  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  heir,  and  the  said  queen  has 
demised  that  wardship  to  farm  to  John  Meryet  as  the  king  has  learned  ; 
and  now  the  said  John  Meriet  has  informed  the  king  that  the  escheator, 
at  the  procurement  of  certain  who  are  scheming  to  defraud  the  king 
of  the  said  wardship,  is  proposing  to  take  inquisitions  of  the  said  manor, 
whereof  the  said  John  de  Bello  Campo  at  his  death  was  seised  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee  and  which  is  in  the  king's  hand  as  aforesaid,  which 
inquisitions,  if  taken  in  the  absence  of  John  Meriet,  would  tend  to  the 
prejudice  of  the  king  and  queen  and  the  disherison  of  the  said  heir. 

Membrane  26d. 

Charter  of  William  de  Pulteneye  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to 
Sir  Nicholas  de  Lovayne  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  one  acre  of  wood 
in  Eselynge  co.  Kent  called  Robertesgrof  with  the  advowson  of  the 
church.  Witnesses :  Sir  Stephen  de  Voloyns,  Sir  Lawrence  de 
Breule,  Sir  Thomas  Dapuldrefeld  knights,  Henry  Dapuldrefeld,  Arnald 
de  Eselynge,  John  de  Polle,  Richard  atte  Welle.  Dated  Pensherst, 
19  April  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  London 
22  April. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  William  de  Pulteneye  and  Margaret  his 
wife  on  the  one  part  and  Sir  Nicholas  de  Lovayne  of  the  other  part, 
being  a  lease  to  farm  to  Sir  Nicholas,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  imtil 
Michaelmas  next  and  thenceforward  for  a  term  of  20  years,  of  100  marks 
of  rent  which  the  said  William  has  by  a  charter  of  the  king  to  Sir  John 
de  Pulteneye  his  father,  whose  heir  he  is,  and  to  the  heirs  male 
of  Sir  John's  body,  to  be  taken  yearly  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriffs  of 
London,  to  wit  501.  of  the  Quenehuth  and  25  marks  of  the  farm  of 
the  said   city  due  to  the  king,  also  of  the  manor  of  Swafham  Prior 


38    EDWARD    III.  -        53 


1364.  Membrane  26d — cont. 

CO.  Cantebrigge  with  the  advowsou  of  the  chapel  thereof,  the  manor 
of     PopeUr   CO.    Middlesex   with   tenements,    mills,    lands,    meadows, 
pastures,    rent    and    service    in    Stibenhithe,    Estharame,    Stratford, 
Edelmeton,    Hakeneye,    Brambele   and   Eldeforde,    and   other   lands 
and  rents  in  Wolwyche   co.  Kent,  which  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's 
court  the  said  William  and  Margaret  have  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their 
bodies,  with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  Guy  de  Lovayne 
and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  remainder  to  the  right  heirs  of  Sir  William  ; 
if  the  said  JMargaret  die  after  ten  [or  six]  years  from  Michaelmas  next 
in  the  life  time  of  Sir  William,  the  estate  of  Sir  Nicholas  in  the  premises 
shall  cease  at  Michaelmas  next  after  her  decease,  and  Sir  William  may 
then  again  enter  the  premises,  provided  that  if  she  die  within  the  said 
ten  years  Sir  Nicholas,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  may  hold  the  same  for  that 
terra,  and  however  soon  she  die  after  ten  years  the  estate  of  Sir  Nicholas 
shall  not  cease  before  20  years  unless  William  be  living  ;   Sir  Nicholas, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  so  long  as  they  shall  hold  the  premises,  shall 
render  to  Sir  William  and  Margaret  during  the  life  of  William,  and  to 
the  heirs   male   of   their   bodies  after  their  deaths,  160  marks  a  year 
at  Easter,  Midsummer,  Michaelmas  and  Christmas   by  even  portions, 
so  that  they  be  discharged  of  100  marks  from  the  day  of  William's 
death  if  he  shall  die  without  such  an  heir  tnale,  and  thenceforward  shall 
render  to  Margaret,  and  after  her  decease  to  the  other  heirs  of  the 
bodies  of  William  and  Margaret,  and  after  their  deaths  to  the  said 
Guy  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  and  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  right 
heirs  of  William  60  marks  a  year  for  the  residue  of   the  said  term  ; 
if  Sir  William  shall  have  an  heir  female  and  none  other  begotten  of  the 
said  Margaret,  and  shall  after  have  an  heir  male  begotten  of  another 
wife,  Sir  Nicholas,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  shall  after  the  decease  of 
Sir  William  pay  to  such  heirs  female  60  marks  and  to  the  said  heirs 
male  100  marks  a  year  during  his  estate  ;  power  to  Sir  William  and 
Margaret  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  their  bodies  to  distrain  for  arrears, 
to   Margaret   for  her  life  if  he  die  without  an  heir  male,  and  to  the 
other  said  heirs  after  her  decease,  and  upon  failure  of  such  heirs  to 
the  said  Guy  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  and  to  the  right  heirs  of  Sir  William, 
or  to  the  heirs  female  aforesaid  for  the  said  60  marks  and  the  heir  male 
begotten  as  aforesaid  for  100  marks,  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  such 
heir  male  to  enter  and  hold  again  the  said  rent  granted  by  the  king 
if  the  rent   above  reserved    be    in    arrear    the    quarter  of  a  year, 
and   Sir   Nicholas    grants    like   power  to  those    entitled   to   all    the 
rents  above   reserved   to   enter  again  all   the  premises  until  thereof 
recompensed,  provided  always  that  upon  recompense  made  Sir  Nicholas, 
his  heirs   and   assigns,  may  enter   again  for  the  term  aforesaid  ;    Sir 
William  grants  that  in  case  Sir  Nicholas,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  be  put 
out  or  molested  within  the  said  term  for  any  other  cause  not   con- 
tained in  this  indenture,  if  it  be  not  for  waste,  or  if   Sir  William  in  his 
life  time  alien,  grant  or  lease  the  premises  or  parcel  thereof,  or  grant 
the  reversion  to  any  without  the  assent  and  special  licence  of  Sir 

Membrane  25d. 

Nicholas,  Sir  Nicholas  shall  hold  the  premises  to  him,  his  heirs  and 
assigns  for  ever,  quit  of  Sir  William  and  his  heirs  ;  warranty  by  Sir 
William  and  his  heirs  in  form  aforesaid.  Sir  Nicholas,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,    performing   the   services   due   for   the  premises  to  the  chief 


&4       *  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364.  Membrane  25d — cont. 

lords    during    their  said  term.     Dated  London,  Monday  the  feast  of 
St.  Edward  K.  and  M.  38  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  in  the  chancery 
at  London,  22  April. 

Writing  of  Roger  atte  G-arstone,  son  and  heir  of  John  atte  Garstone 
of  Blecchyngleghe  co.  Surrey,  being  a  gift  and  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  William  de  Burton  citizen  and  goldsmith  of  London,  his 
heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  lands  and  rents  in  the  parish  of  Blecchyngleghe, 
with  woods,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  commons,  ways,  paths, 
hedges,  ditches  etc.  which  came  or  may  come  to  the  said  Roger  by 
inheritance  after  the  death  of  his  said  father.  Witnesses  :  John 
Hiltoft,  John  de  Bures,  Simon  de  Benyngton,  William  de  Essex,  John 
Currant,  John  de  Gravelee,  William  Baldewyne.  Dated  London, 
Thursday  18  April  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  24  April. 

Writing  of  Margaret  daughter  of  Richard  Cretyng,  being  a  demise 
and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  de  Montpilers  and  Joan  his 
wife,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  lands  by  her  lately  purchased 
jointly  with  the  said  John  and  Joan  in  Cretyng  St.  Peter,  Cretyng 
All  Saints,  Cretyng  St.  Mary,  Cretyng  St.  Olave,  Stowe,  Neuton, 
Saxton,  Stonham  Earls,  Combys  and  Berkyng,  and  of  all  the  tenements 
which  lately  descended  to  her  by  inheritance  after  the  death  of  her 
said  father.     Dated  London,  Friday  after  All   Saints  36  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   25  April  this  year. 

Writing  of  John  Nowers  of  Gothurst,  being  a  grant  and  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  John  Barkere  of  Olneye,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the 
manor  and  all  tenements  in  Westone  Underwode  co.  Buckingham, 
and  all  rents  thereof  issuing,  which  the  said  John  Barkere  holds  of  the 
demise  of  the  said  John  Nowers.  Witnesses  :  Thomas  de  Reynes 
knight,  Richard  Chaunberleyn  knight,  John  de  Ayllesbury  knight, 
Edmund  Fitz  John  of  Hamslape,  John  Fitz  Richard  of  Olneye,  John 
Chaunburleyn,  John  Cane  of  Shiryngton,  John  Grenewych  of  Westone. 
Dated  Westone  aforesaid,  9  March  38  Edward  III.      ' 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  25  April, 

Writing  of  John  Nowers  of  Gothurst,  being  a  grant  with  warranty 
to  John  Barkere  of  Olneye,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a  yearly  rent 
of  8  marks  to  be  taken  of  his  tenements  in  Chestre  and  Lufwyk 
CO.  Norhampton,  namely  4  marks  at  the  feast  of  St.  Thomas  the 
Apostle  and  4  marks  at  Midsummer,  with  power  of  distraint  if  the 
same  be  in  arrear.  Witnesses  :  Thomas  de  Reynes,  John  de 
Aylesbury  knights,  Edmund  Fitz  John,  John  Fitz  Richard,  John 
Cane,  John  Caunburleyn.     Dated  Gothurst,  16  April  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  25  April. 

Indenture  made  between  John  Nowers  of  Gothurst  and  John 
Barkere  of  Olneye,  being  a  defeasance  of  the  rent  granted  by  the 
foregoing  writing,  upon  condition  that  John  Nowers  and  Maud  his  wife 
and  their  heirs  shall  make  no  claim  to  any  of  the  tenements  which 
John  Barkere  holds  in  Westone  Underwode.  Witnesses  and  date 
{as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  25  April. 


38    EDWARD   III. 


65 


1304. 


Membrane  25d — cont. 


April  25,         Richard  de  Willesford  to  William  Savage  of  Quappclade  and  John 
Westminster,  de  Folkyugham  clerk.     Recognisance  for  40Z.,  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Lincolnshire. 

April  27.         William  Sonierby  parson  of  St.  [Mary]  Magdalene  Mylkstrete  and 
Weatminstor.  Simon  Reynliam  citizen  and  mercer  of  London  to  Master  William 
Tctlyngbery    clerk    and    William    Knotte.     Recognisance    for    100^, 
to  be  levied  etc.  in  the  said  city. 


Membrane  24fZ. 

Indenture  made  between  Simon  bishop  of  London,  Sir  Hugh  de 
Radevve  knight,  John  Aubrey  of  London,  William  de  Maldon  and  Sir 
William  de  Newerk  chaplain  of  the  one  part,  and  Nicholas  son  and  heir 
of  Sir  William  de  la  More  of  the  other  part,  whereby  the  said  Nicholas 
grants  to  the  said  bishop  and  others,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  the 
remainder  of  the  manor  called  Ic  Morehall  co.  Essex  and  the  lands  and 
tenements  which  John  de  Mounteney  and  Cicely  his  wife  hold  for  her 
life  of  the  heritage  and  by  lease  of  the  said  Nicholas  with  reversion  to 
Nicholas  and  his  heirs,  rendering  to  him  and  his  heirs  20  marks  during 
her  life,  together  with  the  said  rent  to  him  payable  during  the  life 
of  the  said  Cicely,  upon  condition  that  so  soon  as  the  said  Nicholas 
shall  return  from  over  sea,  and  shall  pay  201.  to  the  said  Sir  Hugh 
and  John  or  one  of  them  or  to  the  executors  of  one  of  them,  in  case 
so  much  be  not  received  of  the  20  marks  yearly  before  mentioned  or 
of  the  profits  of  the  said  land  if  Cicely  die,  or  shall  pay  so  much  as  shall 
be  lacking  of  that  sum  after  allowance  made  of  the  receipts  above 
mentioned,  if  the  said  bishop  and  others  after  being  contented 
of  the  said  sum  to  Sir  Hugh  and  John  paid  as  aforesaid  or  of  the  rent 
or  profits  as  before  limited,  shall  not  within  one  month  after  being 
by  him  required  so  to  do  make  an  estate  in  fee  simple  or  other  estate 
to  Nicholas  or  to  others  as  he  shall  appoint,  this  grant  shall  be  of  none 
effect,  the  said  estate  in  remainder  shall  cease,  and  it  shall  be  lawful 
for  the  said  Nicholas  to  take  again  the  said  rent  and  after  the  death  of 
the  said  Cicely  to  enter  the  said  lands  without  debate  or  claim  of  them 
or  their  heirs  ;  and  in  case  the  said  Nicholas  shall  not  return  and 
content  the  said  Hugh  and  John  as  aforesaid  this  grant  of  the  said 
reversion  and  rent  shall  remain  in  force.  One  part  of  this  indenture 
to  remain  \vith  the  bishop,  a  second  with  the  said  Sir  Hugh,  John, 
\Mlliam  and  William,  the  tliird  with  the  said  Nicholas.  Dated  London, 
10  April  38  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Nicholas,  28  April. 

April  29.         Bertram   Mountburghcher   knight    and   Nicholas    Mountburghcher 
Westminster,  to  Roger  de  Woderyngton.     Recognisance  for  622  marks,  to  be  levied, 
in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Sussex. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

April  28.         John  de  Clierleton  of  Middlesex  to  Henry  de  Ingelby,  Thomas  de 
Westminster.  Neuby  and  Michael  de  Ravendale  clerks.     Recognisance  for  80  marks, 
to   be  levied  etc.   in  Middlesex. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  John  shall 
pay  40  marks  on  the  feast  of  All  Saints  next. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Michael. 


56  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364.  Membrane  24d — cont. 

Feb.  10.         To  the  sheriff  of  Salop.     Order  to  cause  a  regard  to  be  made  in  the 
Westminster,  forest  of  Morf  according  to  the  form  of  the  capitula  which  follow, 
so  that  the  regard  be  made  before    the    feast    of    the    Assumption 
(Assumpcionis  domini)  next. 

Capitula. 

April  22.        The  like  writ  and  capitula  to  the  sheriff  of  Wilts,  to  cause  a  regard 
Westminster,  to  be  made  in  the  forest  of  Bradene  before  St.  Peters  Chains  next. 

Feb.  10.        The  like  to  the  sheriff  of  Salop,  to  cause  a  regard  to  be  made  in  the 
Westminster,  forest  of  Morf  before  the  Ascension  next. 

Membrane  23d. 

May  3.  John  Fraunk  of  the  county  of  Suthampton  to  William  de  Edynton 

Westminster,  bishop  of  Winchester.  Recognisance  for  500  marks,  to  be  levied, 
in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  the  county  of 
Suthampton. 

May  3.  The  same  John  Fraunk  to  the  said  bishop.     Recognisance  for  other 

Westminster.  500  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 

May  3.  John  de   Rokwode  of  Suffolk  to  Richard  de  Everdon  and  Henry 

Westminster,  his  brother.     Recognisance  for  lOOZ.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Suffolk. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  Richard  de  Everden  and  Henry  his  brother,  being  a 
defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon  condition  that  Stephen 
Bacon  and  Beatrice  his  wife  of  the  county  of  Suffolk  by  fine  to  be  levied 
in  the  king's  court  shall  within  a  year  release  to  the  said  Richard  and 
Henry,  William  Cheddre,  William  Taillour  of  Burnham  chaplain  and 
Walter  de  Tentebury,  or  to  their  assigns,  all  right  which  the  said 
Beatrice  may  have  in  the  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Childokford 
formerly  hers,  and  that  when  Thomas  de  Rokwode  brother  of  the  said 
John  shall  come  to  England  to  any  of  the  counties  of  Suffolk,  Northfolk 
or  Essex,  he  shall  within  a  year  after  his  coming  make  a  release  to 
the  persons  above  named  or  their  assigns  sufficient  to  extinguish  his 
right  in  the  said  tliird  part,  and  shall  cause  the  same  to  be  enrolled 
in  chancery  ;  and  if  no  such  fine  be  levied  or  release  made,  the  said 
recognisance  shall  be  in  suspense  so  long  as  the  said  Richard  and  Henry, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  shall  peaceably  have  and  enjoy  the  said  third 
part  without  losing  any  parcel  thereof  by  judgment  at  the  suit  of  the 
said  Stephen  and  Beatrice,  of  the  heirs  of  Beatrice,  or  of  the  said 
Thomas  and  his  heirs,  or  being  therefrom  ousted  by  any  of  them ;  the 
said  fine  to  be  levied  at  the  cost  of  the  tenants  of  the  said  third  part 
for  the  time  being.  Dated  Saturday  after  St.  Philip  and  St.  James 
38  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   4  May. 

Charter  of  John  de  Rokwode  of  Suffolk,  giving  with  bond  for 
warranty  to  Richard  de  Everdon  chaplain,  Henry  his  brother,  William 
de  Cheddre,  WilUam  le  Taillour  of  Burnham  and  Walter  de  Tentebury, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  the  reversion  of  the  manor  of  Childokford 
CO.  Dorset  with  the  advowson  of  a  mediety   of  the  church,  and  the 


38  EDWARD  III.  67 


1364.  Membrane  2M — cant. 

reversion  of  all  lands,  rents  and  services  etc.  which  Edmund  Baniabe 
now  holds  for  a  toiiu  of  years  in  the  said  town  and  in  Okford  Skillyng 
and  Fitelford  ^^ith  reversion  to  the  grantor  and  his  heirs,  with  the 
ponds  and  the  liberties  and  free  customs  thereto  belonging.  Dated 
Saturday  before  St.  John  ante  portam  Latinam  38  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  May. 

May  7.  Richai'd   de   Horseley   to   Alan   de   Heton   knight.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  G6/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Northumberland. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

May  7.  The  said  Richard  to  Edward  de  Letham  knight.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  66^.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Northumberland. 

June  10.  To  Ralph  de  Neville,  William  de  Aton,  Thomas  Ughtred,  WiUiam  de 
Westminster.  Skipwyth,  William  Playce,  John  Moubray,  William  de  Ryse  and 
John  de  Wilton.  Order  to  stay  altogether  any  further  execution  of 
the  king's  late  commission  by  letters  patent  appointing  them,  seven, 
six,  five,  four,  three  and  two  of  them  of  whom  either  John  Moubray  or 
Thomas  de  Ingelby  [sic)  should  be  one,  at  the  suit  of  Idonea  de 
Percy,  as  justices  to  hear  and  determine  certain  alleged  trespasses 
against  her  committed  by  Isabel  who  was  wife  of  Walter  Faucomberge 
and  tenant  of  Queen  Philippa  (otherwise  called  Isabel  who  was  wife 
of  Roger  de  Burton  knight)  and  others  in  the  commission  named  at 
Semer,  Lekyngfeld,  Catton,  Nafferton  and  Esyngwald,  telling  the  said 
Idonea  on  the  king's  behalf  to  pursue  her  plaint  before  the  justices  of 
either  Bench  if  she  think  fit ;  as  for  particular  causes  set  forth 
before  him  and  the  council  the  king  has  revoked  the  said  commission. 

By  K.  and  C. 

June  10.  To  Ralph  de  Neville,  John  Moubray  and  Thomas  de  Ingelby.  Order 
Westminster,  to  stay  altogether  any  further  execution  of  the  king's  late  commissions  by 
letters  patent  appointing  them  and  several  other  lieges,  of  whom  either 
the  said  John  or  Thomas  was  to  be  one,  to  hear  and  determine  certain 
alleged  trespasses  and  mischiefs  committed  at  divers  times  and  at  divers 
places  in  Yorkshire,  as  well  against  the  king  as  Idonea  de  Percy  and 
John  de  Couseby,  by  Isabel  who  was  wife  of  Walter  Faucomberge 
and  tenant  of  Queen  Pliilippa  (otherwise  called  Isabel  who  was 
wife  of  Roger  de  Burton  knight)  and  others  in  the  commissions 
contained,  telling  the  said  Idonea  and  John  on  the  king's  behalf  to 
pursue  their  plaints  before  the  justices  of  either  Bench  if  they  think 
fit,  and  sending  before  the  king  within  fifteen  days  after  Michaelmas 
the  records  and  processes  whatsoever  touching  their  commissions  ; 
as  for  particular  causes  set  forth  before  the  king  and  council  the  king 
has  revoked  the  said  commissions.  By  K.  and  C. 

Membrane  22d. 

June  16.  To  Henry  de  Grene  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hold  pleas 
Westminster,  before  the  king.  Order  to  continue  in  the  state  they  now  are  in 
until  the  next  coming  of  the  said  justices  to  the  king  and  council  at 
Westminster  the  processes  before  them  begun  against  John  de  Blakeneye 
of  London,  Nicholas  Curteys,  John  RagenhuU,  Nicholas  servant  of 
William  de  Bury,  Thomas  de  Wylford,  Ralph  Dobble,  Thomas  de 


58  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364.  Membrane  22d — cont. 

Lincoln  of  London,  Thomas  de  Mokkyng,  Thomas  de  Frensted,  Thomas 
Hore,  John  Condestede,  Stephen  de  Gloucestre,  and  John  Wroth 
fishers  of  the  city  of  London  by  reason  of  their  indictments,  not 
troubling  the  said  fishers  for  that  cause  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  that 
certain  fishers  of  that  city  are  indicted  for  divers  excesses  touching 
the  buying  and  selling  of  fish  at  Blakeneye  and  elsewhere  in  Norliolk, 
and  therefore  fear  to  come  thither  to  buy  fish,  whereby  fish  are 
dearer  in  London  than  they  used  to  be,  and  petition  is  made  to  the  king 
for  remedy  to  save  himself  harmless  and  the  whole  people  ;  and  the 
king  considers  that  such  excesses  may  be  debated  and  terminated 
before  him  and  the  council  at  Westminster  better   than   elsewhere. 

By  K.  and  C. 

To  the  guardian  of  Ireland  and  the  chancellor  there  for  the  time 
being,  or  to  their  representatives.  Order  not  to  trouble  Maurice  earl 
of  Kildare,  John  Husee,  Richard  White,  Richard  Plunket  and  Simon 
Flemyng  by  reason  of  their  leaving  Ireland  and  coming  to  this  realm, 
nor  the  ship  which  brought  them  hither,  the  master  or  seamen 
thereof  ;  as  it  is  shewn  the  king  on  behalf  of  the  said  earl  and  the 
others  that  they  had  licence  of  the  council  in  Ireland  to  come  to  England, 
Simon  to  survey  his  lands  there,  the  others  because  they  were  chosen 
by  certain  of  the  commons  of  Ireland  to  come  upon  business  affecting 
the  state  of  Ireland,  that  after  such  licence  had  proclamation  was 
by  the  council  made  on  the  king's  behalf  forbidding  any  person  or 
ship  to  pass  from  Ireland  without  the  king's  special  licence,  that  they 
notwithstanding  that  proclamation  went  on  board  a  ship  in  the  port  of 
Dublin  and  came  hither,  and  that  they  fear  to  be  hereafter  impeached 
by  the  said  council  bj'^  reason  of  such  departure  ;  and  the  king  has 
pardoned  their  trespasses  herein.  By  K. 

Jan.  25.         Brother  John  Pavely  prior  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem 
Westminster,  in  England  to  the  archbishop  of  York  and  the  chapter  of  St.  Peter 
York.     Recognisance  for  100^.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  IMiddlesex. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon  condition 
that  the  prior  and  brethren  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem 
in  England  and  their  successors,  so  long  as  they  shall  have  posses- 
sion of  a  mediety  of  the  church  of  Derfeld,  the  advowson  v^hereof 
was  to  them  given  by  Sir  John  de  Grey  of  Rotherfeld  knight, 
and  the  said  mediety  appropriated  to  them  by  John  archbishop  of 
York  with  assent  of  his  chapter  of  York,  shall  pay  every  year  at 
York  to  the  archbishop  of  York  and  to  the  chapter  of  York  at 
Martinmas  and  Whitsuntide  or  within  one  month  after  by  even  por- 
tions a  yearly  pension  of  8  marks  to  them  reserved  in  accordance 
with  the  appropriation  of  the  said  mediety  to  the  said  prior  and 
brethren  made  as  aforesaid,  to  wit  2  marks  to  the  archbishop  and 
his  successors,  1  mark  to  the  said  chapter,  and  5  marks  to  the  censer 
bearers  of  the  choir  of  York  in  aid  of  their  maintenance,  for  greater 
security  whereof  the  said  recognisance  is  made  ;  or  else  that  the 
appropriation  shall  not  be  put  in  execution,  or  shall  be  annulled  or 
of  none  effect  in  time  to  come.  Any  acquittance  under  the  seal  of 
the  archbishop,  his  successors,  or  their  executors  without  that  of 
the  chapter,  or  under  the  seal  of  the  chapter  without  that  of  the 
archbishop,  shall  be  void.  Dated  Clerkenwell,  30  January  38  Edward  III. 
French. 


38  EDWARD  III.  69 


1364.  Membrane  22d — cont. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  archbishop  and  chapter 
at  York  18  March  before  Tliomas  de  Ingelby,  by  virtue  of  a  writ  of 
dedimus  potestateni  to  him  addressed,  which  is  on  the  files  of  chancery 
for  this  year. 

Membrane  2ld. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Ingelram  lord  of  Coucy  and  Joan  who 
was  wife  of  John  de  Coupeland  whereby,  in  presence  of  William  de 
Wykeham  keeper  of  the  privy  seal  and  others  of  the  council,  acknow- 
ledging her  estate  to  be  for  term  of  her  life  in  the  manor  of  Coghull  co. 
York,  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Kirkeby  in  Kendale  with  its  members  in 
Westmorland  and  Cumberland,  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Ulreston,  the 
manors  of  Mourholm,  Warton,  Kerneford  and  Lyndheved  co.  Lan- 
caster to  her  granted  by  charter  of  the  king  with  the  fees,  advowsons 
etc.  thereto  pertaining,  and  power  for  her,  her  assigns  and  tenants, 
to  take  of  the  parks  and  woods  thereof  for  building,  burning,  making 
and  enclosing  parks  and  hays,  '  housebote  and  hayebote  '  and  other 
needs  without  impeachment  of  waste,  provided  only  that  they  may 
not  give  or  sell  the  same  or  any  parcel  thereof  or  trees  growing 
therein,  and  acknowledging  likewise  her  estate  to  be  for  life 
in  all  the  lands  which  were  of  Sir  Robert  de  Coucy  in  Yorkshire, 
Lancashire  and  Westmorland,  the  fees  and  advowsons  excepted, 
and  which  she  holds  by  another  charter  of  the  king,  rendering  to  him 
100  marks  a  year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  which 
yearly  sum,  fees  and  advowsons  the  king  has  by  charter  granted  to 
Sir  Ingelram  and  his  heirs  for  ever,  and  by  the  same  charter  has  granted 
to  him  and  liis  heirs  the  reversion  of  the  manors,  moieties  and 
lands  with  the  appurtenances  aforesaid  after  her  death,  the  said  Joan 
attorns  tenant  to  Sir  Ingelram  for  the  manors,  moieties  and  lands 
aforesaid,  as  heretofore  to  the  king,  and  has  done  fealty,  saving 
always  her  estate  aforesaid  ;  and  for  this  attornment  Sir  Ingelram 
confirms  the  premises  to  her  for  life  with  warranty  thereof,  to  hold 
of  him  and  his  heirs,  rendering  to  them  100  marks  a  year,  and  grants 
that  she  and  her  heirs  shall  not  be  impeached  for  waste  but  only  for 
gift  or  sale  as  aforesaid,  the  said  Joan  promising  to  sue  to  the 
profit  of  Sir  Ingelram  any  others  who  shall  make  waste  in  the  said 
parks,  saving  to  her  reasonable  costs  in  such  suit.  One  part  remain- 
ing mth  the  king  sealed  by  both  parties,  another  with  Sir  Ingelram 
sealed  by  Joan,  the  third  remaining  with  Joan  sealed  by  Sir  Ingelram. 
Dated  London,  Monday  before  Whitsuntide  38  Edward  III.    French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  9  May,  in  the 
chancery  at  the  Whitefriars  {apud  mansum  fratrum  ordinis  beate  Marie 
de  Monte  Garmeli). 

Indenture  whereby  Sir  Ingelram  lord  of  Coucy  grants  that,  whereas 
Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Coupeland,  by  charter  of  the  king 
made  to  her  said  husband  and  to  her,  holds  for  life  all  the  lands  that 
were  of  Sir  Robert  de  Coucy  in  Lancashire,  Westmorland  and 
Yorkshire,  rendering  100  marks  a  year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas 
by  even  portions,  which  yearly  sum  mth  the  reversion  of  the  premises 
has  by  charter  of  the  king  been  granted  to  Sir  Ingelram  and  his  heirs 
for  ever,  the  said  terms  shall  be  postponed  and  changed  to 
Whitsuntide  and  Martinmas,  and  Joan  or  her  assigns  shall  not  during 
her  hfe  be  compelled  nor  distrained  to  pay  the  same  but  only  at  the 


60 


CALENDAR   OF   CLOSE  ROLLS. 


May  9. 

Westminster. 


May  10. 

Westminster. 


May  12. 

Westminster. 


1864.  Membrane  21d — cont. 

terms  last  mentioned  ;  and  Joan  binds  herself  to  pay  the  said  sum 
every  year  at  London  at  Whitsuntide  and  Martinmas  by  even  portions, 
provided  she  or  her  assigns  be  not  compelled  nor  distrained  to  pay 
at  the  other  terms  aforesaid,  with  power  to  Sir  Ingelram  and  his  heirs 
to  distrain  if  the  same  be  in  arrear  at  any  time.  Dated  London, 
Wednesday   before   Whitsuntide   38   Edward  III.      French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  9  May  {as  the  last). 

Edmund  Maunsel  to  Edmund  Laurence  and  John  de  Lancastre 
clerk.  Recognisance  for  20  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Lancashire. 

Walter  Salle  of  Horton  to  John  de  Brampton  clerk.     Recognisance 
for  6  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Bukinghamshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

To  the  sheriflE  of  Suffolk.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  William 
Storye,  to  stay  the  exigents  against  him  by  the  mainprise  of  Reynold 
Hervy  and  Robert  de  Dersham  of  Suffolk,  bringing  this  writ  before 
the  justices  of  the  Bench  on  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable ; 
as  on  behalf  of  the  said  William  it  is  shewn  the  king  that  Roger  de 
Westbery  is  impleading  him  by  writ  before  the  said  justices  to  render 
him  chattels  to  the  value  of  405.,  that  though  William  has  sufficient 
lands,  goods  and  chattels  whereby  he  may  be  distrained,  he  is  put  in 
exigents  in  that  county  to  be  outlawed  for  that  the  sheriff  has  returned 
that  he  had  no  such  lands  or  goods,  and  for  that  he  came  not  before 
the  justices  on  the  day  named  in  the  said  writ  to  answer  Roger 
thereupon,  and  that  he  is  ready  so  to  answer  and  to  stand  to  right 
thereupon ;  and  the  said  Reynold  and  Robert  have  mainperned 
under  a  pain  of  405.  to  have  his  body  before  the  said  justices  on 
the  day  aforesaid.  By  C. 

May  30.         John  Porter  of  Wobourne  Chapelle  to  Thomas  de  Bradewell  knight. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  lOOl.  ;    to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Bedfordshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

May  30.         Richard  de  Bonyngton  and  William  Breteuille  to  John  le  Porter 
Westminster,  of  Wouburne  Chapelle.     Recognisance  for  lOOZ.,   to  be    levied    etc. 
in  Bedfordshire. 

Membrane  20d. 

Memorandum  that  on  Thursday  9  May  38  Edward  III,  by  the  king's 
command,  the  mayor,  recorder  and  sheriffs,  five  of  the  aldermen  and 
eight  of  the  commoners  of  the  city  of  London  came  before  the  chancellor, 
the  treasurer,  the  clerk  of  the  privy  seal  and  others  of  his  council  at 
Whitefriars  (a  les  freres  du  Carme),  and  were  by  the  council  charged 
to  advise  what  persons  of  the  city  of  London  ought  to  have  and  enjoy 
the  liberties  granted  by  the  king  and  his  forefathers  to  the  citizens 
thereof  ;  who  said  that  formerly  they  were  so  charged  by  the  council, 
when  they  caused  the  aldermen  and  the  greater  part  of  the  commoners 
of  the  city  to  assemble  at  the  '  Gihall,'  and  then  by  their  common 
assent  reported  to  the  council,  as  they  were  informed,  that  according 
to  the  ancient  usages  and  customs  thereof  all  tenants  of  the   city, 


38  EDWARD  III. 


61 


1364. 


Membrane  20d — cont. 


by  reason  of  their  tenements  and  not  of  their  persona,  arc  and  of 
all  time  wore  denizablo,  that  every  man  of  the  city  sworn  to  the 
liberties  thereof  who  is  in  lot  and  in  scot  bearing  the  charges  thereof, 
and  also  the  heii"s  of  those  enfranchised,  may  devise  their  tenements 
as  well  to  mortmain  as  to  secular  persons,  that  others  having  tenements 
therein  who  are  not  so  sworn  nor  bear  the  said  charges,  albeit 
they  hold  the  same,  may  not  devise  their  tenements  to  mortmain  ; 
and  the  said  mayor,  recorder,  sheriffs  and  aldermen  at  their  first  coming 
before  the  council  made  protestation  that,  if  hereafter  they  should  bo 
better  informed  of  the  premises,  they  might  shew  that  which  they 
should  learn  by  such  information,  and  on  the  same  day  at  their  latter 
coming  said  that  they  were  not  advised  nor  informed  nor  of  other 
mind  than  before,  and  further  that  no  man  having  tenements  in  the 
said  city  who  is  not  sworn  nor  bears  the  charges  thereof  shall  have  or 
enjoy  the  liberties  thereof  so  as  to  devise  them  to  mortmain  more 
than  one  who  has  no  tenement  therein  and  dwells  twenty  leagues 
away,  as  appears  by  charter  of  the  late  king  to  the  citizens  made  in 
the  12th  year  of  his  reign,  wherein  it  is  declared  which  of  the  citizens 
ought  to  enjoy  the  said  liberties  and  which  not,  in  which  charter, 
after  declaration  made  of  those  who  shall  be  enfranchised  in  the  city 
and  enjoy  the  liberties,  it  is  expressly  contained  that  the  king  has 
granted  the  said  liberties  to  the  said  citizens,  who  may  not  be  under- 
stood as  other  than  those  in  that  charter  declared  to  have  and  enjoy 
the  same.     French. 

[Fcedera.     Compare  Liber  Cusiumarum,  Rolls  Series,  pp.  268-273.] 

Writing  of  John  son  and  heir  of  Henry  Baudewyne,  being  a  quitclaim 
to  Alice  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Poghlee,  her  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the 
lands  of  her  said  husband  which  she  now  holds  in  Burnham,  Estburnham, 
Brutewell,  Dorneye  and  Cippenham.  Witnesses  :  John  de  Hunter- 
combe  knight,  William  de  Saundresdon,  Richard  Darches, 
William  de  Hatfeld,  Richard  Gregory  the  elder,  Richard  Gregory  the 
younger,  Walter  de  Salle.  Dated  Burnham,  Satm-day  after  Trinity 
38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  30  May. 

May  31.         Adam     Hobeldod     of    Swaveseye     to     Nicholas     Damori     knight. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  361.  16d.  payable  by  instalments  ;    to  be  levied,  in 
default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Cambridgeshire. 

I  Writing  of  John,  son  of  John  de  Cepham  and  Elizabeth  his   wife, 

granting  with  warranty  to  Geoffrey  Schrop,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the 
reversion  of  the  manor  of  Gony  Ides  bury,  now  held  for  life  by  John 
Braye  of  Middlesex  of  the  demise  of  the  said  John  de  Cepham  and 
Elizabeth  with  reversion  to  the  said  John  the  son  and  to  his  heirs. 
Dated  Gonjddesbury,  10  October  37  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   1  June  this  year. 

June  3.  John  abbot  of  Bruern,  for  himself  and  the  convent,  to  John  de 

Westmii  ter.  Noweres  knight.  Recognisance  for  50  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in 
Oxfordshire. 

Writing  of  John  de  Poyntz  knight  of  Gloucestershire,  being  a  grant 
and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  de  la  Hale  knight  and  Joan  his 


62 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364.  Membrane  20d — cont. 

wife,  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  John  de  la  Hale,  of  the  third 
part  of  the  manor  of  Penyton  by  Lemynton,  and  the  lands,  rents  and 
services,  woods,  meadows,  feedings  and  pastures  in  Penyton,  Est 
Ebbeford,  Hardebrigge  and  Fordynggebrigge  late  of  John  de  Acton 
knight,  held  at  the  date  of  these  presents  by  John  de  la  Hale  and 
Joan  for  the  life  of  Joan  of  the  heritage  of  John  de  Poyntz.  Witnesses  : 
Sir  John  de  Brewes,  Sir  Henry  le  Moigne,  Sir  Thomas  de  Blount  knights, 
William  Fylol,  Walter  de  Perle,  Richard  de  Wrotham.  Dated  Tarent 
Villers,  12  May  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  June. 

Charter  of  John  de  la  Hale  knight  of  Dorset,  being  the  defeasance 
of  a  statute  merchant  made  at  London  whereby  Sir  John  du  Poyntz 
of  Gloucestershire  is  bound  to  him  in  5001.  paya-ble  at  Tarent  Villers 
by  Easter  next,  upon  condition  that  John  du  Poyntz,  his  heirs  or 
assigns,  pay  to  John  de  la  Hale  and  Joan  his  wife  a  rent  of 
531.  Gs.  8d.  a  year  to  them  reserved  for  Joan's  life  in  a  lease  of  the 
manor  of  Irenacton  co.  Gloucester.  Dated  3  June  38  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  June. 

Membrane  IQd. 

June  3.  John  de  la  Hale  of  Dorset  to  John  de  Poyntz  knight  of  Gloucester- 

Westminster,  shire.     Recognisance  for  5001.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of   payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Dorset. 


Writing  of  John  du  Poyntz  knight  of  Gloucestershire,  being  a 
defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon  condition  that  Joan 
wife  of  Sir  John  de  la  Hale  shall  not  recover  the  manor  of  Irenacton 
against  John  du  Poyntz,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  by  judgment  in  the  king's 
court,  or  shall  so  recover  the  same  but  not  put  the  judgment  in  execu- 
tion, or  that  slie  shall  die  in  the  lifetime  of  Sir  John,  or  without  such 
judgment  rendered,  or  execution  thereof  made.  Dated  8  June 
38  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  John  de  Poyntz,  8  June. 

June  3.  John  de  la  Hale  knight  of  Dorset  to  John  de  Poyntz  knight   of 

Westminster.  Gloucestershire.     Recognisance  for  101.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Dorset. 

Indenture  made  between  John  de  Poyntz  knight  of  Gloucestershire 
and  John  de  la  Hale  knight  of  Dorset,  being  a  defeasance  of  the 
foregoing  recognisance,  upon  condition  that  John  de  Poyntz,  his  heirs 
or  assigns,  may  peaceably  hold  the  manor  of  Irenacton  co.  Gloucester 
according  to  the  grant  of  John  de  la  Hale  and  Joan  his  wife,  without 
being  impleaded  at  the  suit  of  Joan  by  writ  of  cui  in  vita,  or  that 
if  so  impleaded  the  heirs  or  executors  of  John  de  la  Hale  shall 
at  Tarente  Villers  co.  Dorset  upon  due  warning  within  half  a  j'ear 
recompense  him  for  his  costs.  Dated  Tajente  aforesaid,  6  June 
38  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  John  de  Poyntz,  8  June. 

June  6.  Lewis    Bledlowe    of    Takeleye    to    William     Barle     of     Hunden. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  QOl.  payable  by  instalments  ;   to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Essex. 


38  PIDWARD  III. 


63 


1304 


Membrane  19rf — cont. 


Seman  GefTray  to  John  son  of  John  de  Sheffeld.     Recognisance 
for  20/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Middlesex. 


June  6.  Ralph  Tinvhit  to  the  prior  of  Merton.     Recognisance  for  201.,  to 

Westminster,  be  levied  etc.  in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 

June  6.  The  prior  of  Merton,  for  himself  and  the  convent,  to  Ralph  Tirwhit. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  20/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  their  lands  and  chattels  and 
ecclesiastical  goods  in  Surrey. 

June  6.  To  James  le  Botiller  guardian  of  Ireland  or  to  his  representative. 

Westminster.  Order  not  to  hold  sessions  or  pleas  in  the  parts  of  Mounester,  nor  to  suffer 
them  to  be  held  by  others,  by  virtue  of  his  office  or  otlierwise,  before 
the  coming  of  Lionel  duke  of  Clarence  the  king's  son  and  lieutenant 
in  Ireland,  and  if  any  have  been  there  held,  to  cause  them  to  be 
removed  and  transferred  to  other  parts  of  Ireland  ;  as  for  particular 
causes  set  forth  before  the  king  and  council,  the  king  would  not 
that  any  pleas  or  sessions  of  justices  be  held  in  Mounester  before 
the  coming  of  the  said  duke,  who  is  now  with  the  king  in  England. 

By  K.  and  C. 

June  6.  To  the  chancellor  of  Ireland.     Order  to  send  writs  under  the  king's 

Westminster,  seal  used  in  Ireland  to  the  guardian  and  other  the  judges  (if  any) 
holding  or  appointed  to  hold  sessions  in  Mounester,  commanding  them 
to  stay  the  holding  of  sessions  and  pleas  there  until  the  coming  of 
Lionel  duke  of  Clarence  the  king's  son  ;  as  for  particular  causes  set 
forth  before  the  king  and  council,  the  king  would  not  that  such  pleas 
and  sessions  be  there  held  before  the  said  duke's  coming  by  reason  of 
the  said  guardian's  office  or  otherwise.  By  K.  and  C. 

Writing  of  Thomas  son  of  William  de  Hagh  co.  Lincoln,  being  a 
quitclaim  to  Robert  Cartere  of  Fulkyngham,  John,  Robert,  Joan 
and  Beatrice  his  children  and  every  of  them,  and  to  the  issue  of 
every  of  them,  of  all  actions  of  villenage  and  all  other  actions  real 
and  personal.  Witnesses  :  Henry  Hasty  and  John  Broun  of 
Lyncolnshire,  John  Aubrey  and  John  de  Someresham  citizens  of 
London,  Sir  William  de  Newerk.  Dated  London,  Friday  after  St. 
Barnabas  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  14  June. 

June  20.         To  Henry  de  Grene  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hold  pleas 

Westminster,  before  the  king.     Order  at  their  discretion  to  continue  their  sessions 

in  Norflolk  and  Suffolk  all  this  term,  if  it  shall  seem  to  them  to  be  for 

the  advantage  of  the  king  and  people  so  to  do.  By  K.  and  C. 

June  14.  To  the  guardian  and  the  chancellor  of  Ireland  for  the  time  being. 
Westminster.  Order  to  take  into  the  king's  hand  all  dissensions  and  debates  which 
have  arisen  between  his  subjects,  and  to  cause  them  to  be  appeased 
by  the  best  means  they  may,  causing  proclamation  to  be  made 
throughout  Ireland,  within  liberties  and  without,  forbidding  any 
of  the  English,  the  king's  subjects  born  in  England  or  in  Ireland, 
henceforth  to  make  or  procure  dissensions,  disturbances  or  debates 
between  them  under  pain  of  two  years'  imprisonment  and  payment 
of  ransom  at  the  king's  will,  and  taking  and  imprisoning  any  who 


54 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1364«  Membrane  19d — cont. 

shall  be  found  so  doing  after  the  proclamation  until  other  order  be 
taken  for  their  punishment ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  the  report  of 
many  that  there  are  divers  dissensions  and  debates  arisen  between  the 
English  born  in  England  and  the  English  born  in  Ireland  his  sub- 
jects, whereby  in  times  past  hurt  and  peril  has  happened  in  Ireland,  and 
Avorse  is  feared  unless  the  same  be  speedily  appeased.  By  K.  and  C. 
[Feeder  a.] 

Membrane  ISd. 

Writing  of  John  Parker  of  Eltham,  being  a  quitclaim  to  John 
Dyngelee  of  a  messuage  in  Suthwerk  sometime  of  Alice  who  was  wife 
of  William  Cros  late  fishmonger  of  London.  Dated  Suthwerk,  26  May 
38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  June. 

Writing  of  John  Parker  of  Eltham,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Edmund 
son  of  Edmund  de  Lenham,  and  to  Sibyl  sister  of  the  said  Edmund 
the  son,  af  a  messuage  in  Suthwerk  sometime  of  Alice  who  was  wife 
of  William  Cros  late  fishmonger  of  London.  Dated  Suthwerk,  (a« 
the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  June. 

Writing  of  John  Parker  of  Eltham,  being  a  general  release  to  John  de 
Leuesham,  Robert  atte  Doune  and  John  atte  Wode  of  all  actions 
real  and  personal.     Dated  Suthwerk,  27  May  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  June. 

June  10.         John  de  Holt  to  William  Peyto  the  elder.     Recognisance  for  iOl., 
Westminstor.  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,    of   his   lands    and   chattels   in 
Norhamptonshire . 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

June  12.         Martin  Eisshacre  to  William  Cary.     Recognisance  for  300/.,  to  be 
Westminster,  levied  etc.  in  Devon. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

William  Stighull  and  William  Cary  to  Guy  de  Briene.     Recognisance 
for  40L,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Devon. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Warin  de  Lisle  to  Guy  de  Briene,  William  Styghull  and  Walter  de 
Clopton.     Recognisance  for  600L,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Berkshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Guy. 

Indenture  made  between  Warin  del  Isle  knight  of  the  one  part 
and  Guy  de  Bryene  knight,  William  Stighull  and  Walter  de  Clopton 
of  the  other  part,  being  a  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance, 
upon  condition  that  the  said  Warin,  his  heirs  or  executors,  shall  pay  to 
the  said  Guy,  William  and  Walter  or  one  of  them,  or  to  their  attorney, 
at  London  at  '  Bakwell  Hall '  in  the  ward  of  Bassynghawe  50Z.  at 
Midsummer  next,  501.  at  Michaelmas  following,  501.-  at  Christmas 
following,  50^  at  Easter  following,  501.  at  Midsummer  following,  and 
50Z.  at  Michaelmas  following  or  within  a  quinzaine  after  each  of  those 
feasts,  they  having  an  acquittance  ready  at  each  term  to  deliver  to  him  ; 


38  EDWARD  III. 


en 


1364. 


Membrane  18d — cont. 


and  after  the  last  payment  they  ^vill  go  into  the  chancery  and  cause 
the  said  recognisance  to  be  annulled.  Dated  London,  Friday  after 
St.  l^arnabas  38  Edwaid  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  12  Juno. 

June  13.  William  Cary  to  Martin  de  Fissliacre.     Recognisance  for  40/.,  to 

VVestminstor.  be  levied,  in  default  of  paj'^ment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Devon. 

June  14.         William  Cary  to  John  Meryet  knight.     Recognisance  for  201.,  to  be 
Westminster,  levied  etc.  in  Devon. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

June  15.         Margaret  who  was  wife  of  Henry  Pycard  of  London  to  Richard  earl  of 
Westminster.  Arundell.     Recognisance  for  400/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in   the   city   of 
London. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

Membrane  lid. 

Charter  of  Stephen  de  Cosynton  knight  of  Kent,  giving  with 
warranty  to  Peter  de  Lacy  clerk  and  John  Pyel  citizen  of  London, 
and  to  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  John,  his  manor  of  Cosynton 
in  the  parishes  of  Aylesford  and  Boxle,  his  manor  of  Akrise  in  the  parish 
of  Akrise,  his  manor  of  Mounte  in  the  parish  of  Elham,  his  manors  of 
Grcne  and  Cosynton  in  the  parishes  of  Northflet,  Suthfiete  and 
Swanescompe,  and  all  other  his  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Kent 
■\^'ith  his  goods  and  chattels  therein  moveable  and  immovable. 
Witnesses  :  Sir  John  de  Cobeham,  Sir  Arnald  Sauvage,  Sir  Stephen  de 
Valence,  Sir  Thomas  de  Apuldrefeld  knights,  William  Pympe, 
William  de  Apuldrefeld,  Geoffrey  Colepeper,  John  Rous.  Dated 
Great  Cosynton,  Tuesday  the  feast  of  St.  Barnabas  38  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Stephen  de  Cosynton  knight  of  Kent,  being  a  letter  of 
attorney  to  Sir  Thomas  de  Berton  clerk,  Adam  Esmon,  John  Courtgate, 
Gilbert  Richard  and  John  Campion  to  deliver  to  Peter  de  Lacy  clerk 
and  John  Pyel  citizen  of  London  seisin  of  the  manors  of  Cosynton 
in  the  parishes  of  Aylesford  and  Boxlee,  Akrise  in  the  parish  of  Akrise, 
Mounte  in  the  parish  of  Elham,  Grene  and  Cosynton  in  the  parishes 
of  Northflete,  Suthflete  and  Swanescompe,  and  all  other  his  lands, 
rents  and  services  in  Kent,  according  to  a  charter  of  feoffment.  Dated 
{as  the  last.) 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
letter,  14  June. 


Writing  of  William  de  Cosynton  knight,  son  of  Stephen  de  Cosynton 
knight  of  Kent,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Peter  de  Lacy 
clerk  and  John  Pyel  citizen  of  London,  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said 
John,  of  the  manor  of  Cosynton  in  the  parish  of  Aylesford  and  Boxlee, 
the  manor  of  Akrise  in  the  parish  of  Akrise,  the  manor  of  Mounte 
in  the  parish  of  Elham,  the  manors  of  Grene  and  Cosynton  in  the 
parishes  of  Northflete,  Southflete  and  Swanescompe,  and  all  other 
the  lands,  rents  and  services  which  were  of  the  said  Stephen  in  Kent, 
all  which  they  have  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  the  said  Stephen. 
Witnesses  :     Sir  John  de  Cobeham,  Sir  Arnald  Sauvage,  Sir  Stephen  de 

E  6 


66 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    BOLLS. 


1364. 


June  12. 
Westminster, 


June  22. 
Westminster, 


June  25. 
Westminstor. 


Membrane  lid — cont. 
Thomas    de    Apuldrefeld    knights, 


Valence,    Sir    Thomas    de    Apuldrefeld    knights,    William    Pympe, 
William  de  Apuldrefeld,  Geoffrey  Colepere  {sic),  John  Rous.     Dated 
Great  Cosynton,  18  June  38  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   19  June. 

To  William  de  Eyncheden  and  William  de  Wychyngham  justices 
of  assize  in  Kent.  Order  not  to  proceed  without  advising  the 
king  to  take  any  assize  before  them  arraigned  of  lands,  rents  and 
services  in  Derteford  and  Stone  given  to  the  king,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
by  charter  of  Thomas  Houchon  of  Derteford,  Roger  Ball  and  William 
Folleswych  of  Derteford,  or  of  any  parcel  thereof  ;  as  the  said  Thomas, 
Roger  and  William  lately  so  gave  all  their  lands,  rents  and  services  there 
which  they  had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Robert  Mount,  as  appears 
by  inspection  of  an  enrolment  of  their  said  charter  upon  the  rolls  of 
chancery  ;  and  now  the  king  has  learned  that  John  Wynchestre  of  South- 
flete,  Cicely  his  wife  and  others  by  divers  writs  have  arraigned 
assizes  of  novel  disseisin  against  Maud  prioress  of  Derteford  con- 
cerning tenements  in  Derteford  and  Stone  which  are  those  so  given 
to  the  king.  By  K. 

Writing  of  John  Shench,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Joan 
who  was  wife  of  Reynold  de  Cobeham  knight  of  the  manor  and 
advowson  of  Okstede  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services  in  that  town 
and  elsewhere  in  Surrey,  willing  that  she  shall  have  and  hold  the 
premises  to  her,  her  heirs  and  assigns.  Dated  Lyngefeld,  Sunday  after 
St.  Barnabas  38  Edward  III,  Witnesses  :  John  de  Hadresham, 
Adam  de  Ivyngefeld,  John  de  Gaynesford,  John  atte  Ware,  Ralph  atte 
HuUe.  And  because  the  seal  of  the  said  John  Shench  is  unknown  to 
many,  he  has  procured  the  seals  of  the  said  witnesses  and  of  Robert  de 
Beleknappe  and  William  de  Cobeham  to  be  set  to  these  presents. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  June. 

Robert  de  Neville  of  Horneby  knight  to  Robert  de  SA\'ylyngton 
knight.  Recognisance  for  1,000Z.  payable  at  Michaelmas  next,  to 
be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Lancashire. 

The  said  Robert  de  Neville  to  the  said  Robert  de  Swylyngton. 
Recognisance  for  1,000Z.  payable  at  Christmas  next,  to  be  levied  etc. 
in  Lancashire.  ^ 

William  de  ChrchuU  {sic)  parson  of  Chertham  to  Richard  de 
Ravenser  clerk.  Recognisance  for  40/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  pay- 
ment, of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Kent. 

Indenture  made  between  John  de  Mounteny  and  Cicely  his  wife 
of  the  one  part  and  Alice  de  Chelham  of  the  other  part,  being  an 
attornment  to  the  said  Alice  for  65.  8d.  for  Easter  term  last,  in  part 
payment  of  10  marks  yearly  to  her  granted  for  life  by  Nicholas  atte 
Mere  to  be  taken  at  four  terms  in  the  year  by  the  hands  of  Ralph  Wolsy 
and  the  said  Cicely  then  his  wife,  out  of  the  20  marks  yearly  rent  to  the 
said  Nicholas  reserved  by  his  writing  indented, whereby  he  granted  to  the 
said  Ralph  and  Cicely  for  their  lives  his  manor  of  la  More  in  Wry  tele  ; 
and  the  said  Alice  confesses  that  she  has  received  of  the  said  John  and 


38  EDWARD  III.  67 


io()4:.  Membrane  lid — cont. 

Cicely  all  arrears  to  date,  and  grants  that  henceforth  during  hor  life 
they  shall  bo  discharged  toward  her  and  her  assigns  of  4  marks  of 
the  said  10  marks,  John  and  Cicely  granting  her  power  of  distraint 
in  the  said  manor  if  the  G  marks  remaining  bo  in  arrear.  Dated 
London,  'Jluirsday  after  St.  Barnabas  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  27  June. 

June  27.         John    de    Mildecumbe    of    Oxfordshire    to    John    atte    Wode    of 
Wefltminster.  Worcestershire.     Recognisance  for  1,000L,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Oxfordshire. 

Jolm  de  Mildecumbe  to  Thomas  de  Compeworth,     Recognisance 
for   1,000^.,  to  bo  levied  etc.   in  Oxfordshire. 

Membrane  I6cZ. 

Indenture  of  accord  between  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Bonrepos  [de 
Bona  Requie)  in  Brittany  and  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Sawtry  (Salteria) 
between  whom  pleas  and  debates  were  lately  moved  touching  a  writing 
produced  by  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Bonrepos  under  name  of  the 
abbot  and  convent  of  Sawtry   with   demand   for  a  yearly  farm  of 
80  marks  for  ever  for  the  churches  of  Fulborne,  Hunygham,  Costesey 
and  Fendrayton,   which  writing  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Saw^try 
altogether  denied,  and  set  forth  another  writing  of  prior  date  which 
contained  that  they  should  have  the  said  churches  for  ever  at  a  yearly 
fee  farm  of  60  marks  only,  and  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Bonrepos, 
protesting  that  they  do  not  acknowledge  the  60  marks  only  of  yearly 
farm  to  be  due,  claimed  the  whole  sum  of  80  marks  ;  whereupon  by  the 
intervention  of  friends  it  is  agreed  that  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Sawtry 
shall  pay  yearly  for  the  farm  of  the  said  churches  for  ever  60  marks 
which  they  acknowledge  to  be  due  from  of  old  time,  and  10  marks 
yearly  farm   beside,   the  whole   to    be    paid    on    the    feast   of   the 
Beheading  of  St.  John  Baptist  or  on  the  eighth  day  after    in   the 
cathedral    church    of    St.    Paul    London    before     the     cross     '  atte 
Northdore  '  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Bonrepos  or  to  their  proctor  ; 
and  for  greater  security  the  abbot  of  Sawtry  or  his  successors  shall 
by  themselves  or  their  attorneys  come  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench 
on  the  morrow  of  St.  John  Baptist  next,  to  a  writ  to  be  by  the  abbot 
of  Bonrepos  or  his  successors  brought  concerning  the  said  rent,  and 
shall  acknowledge  this  deed,  so  that  the  abbot  of  Bonrepos  shall  in 
that  court  recover  the  said  rent ;   the  abbot  and  convent  of  Bonrepos 
grant  that  a  recognisance  in  chancery  made  by  the  abbot  of  Sawtry 
for  40  marks  shall  remain  without  execution,  upon  condition  that 
the  abbot  of  Sawtry  or  his  successors  shall  make  such  acknowledgment, 
and  after  such  recovery  shall  yearly  pay  the  rent  as  aforesaid,  but 
in  case  of  default  as  well  the  said  recognisance  as  another  recognisance 
for  40  marks  made  to  the  king  shall  be  put  in  execution  ;    the  abbot 
and  convent  of  Sawtry  bind  themselves  in  40  marks,  to  be  payable 
within  the  quinzaine  of  their  default  in  any  subsequent  payment  of  the 
said  rent,  for  payment  thereof  and  for  observance  of  the  covenants  above 
rehearsed,  binding  also  their  successors  and  all  their  goods  ;    and  the 
abbot  and  convent  of  Bonrepos  grant  that  henceforth  they  will  cliam 
no  greater  farm  of  the  said  churches  than  70  marks,  but  that  for  that 


68 


CALENDAR     OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1364. 


Membrane  l6d—cont. 


yearly  sum  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Sawtry  and  their  successors 
shall  have  and  hold  the  said  churches  for  ever.  Dated  Sawtry  abbey, 
Easter  day  1363,   37  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  abbots,  4  July  this 
year. 

Writing  of  Joan  daughter  of  William  de  Heyford,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Thomas  de  Foxcote,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all 
lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  town  of  Langebergh  or  in  Overtyso 
and  Chirchetyso.  Dated  Cirencestre,  Wednesday  after  St.  Ambrose 
36  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of   acknowledgment,   9  July  this  year. 

Writing  of  Joan  daughter  of  William  de  Heyford,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Thomas  de  la  Morehalle  rector  of  Quynton  of  all 
lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  town  of  Newebold  \ipon  Stowre.  Dated 
Quynton,  7  July  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  9  July. 

July  11.  Roger  Belere  knight  and  Ralph  de  Cromwell  knight  to  John  de 
Westminster.  Loudham  knight.  Recognisance  for  2,000  marks,  to  be  levied,  in 
default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Notynghamshire. 
Memorandum  that  John  de  Loudham  has  appointed  Henry  Asty 
and  John  de  Wyke  his  attorneys  to  sue  the  execution  of  this 
recognisance,  take  the  money  and  give  acquittance  for  the  same, 
and  to  cause  the  enrolment  thereof  to  be  cancelled. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  Henry  Asty  attorney  of  John  de 
Loudham. 

July  11.  Nicholas  le  Norreys  of  Burtonheved  to  John  de  Lancastre  clerk 

Westminster,  and  Thomas  de  Thelwall  clerk.     Recognisance  for  40.9.,  to  be  levied  etc. 
in  Lancashire. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  John. 

Writing  of  Richard  earl  of  Aroundell  and  Surrey,  being  the 
defeasance  of  a  recognisance  made  in  the  Common  Bench  whereby 
John  de  Lenedale  is  bound  to  him  in  2201.,  so  long  as  the  said  earl, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  shall  peaceably  hold  the  moiety  of  the  manor 
of  Gatton,  which  he  has  of  the  grant  of  the  said  John  and  Joan  his 
wife,  Avithout  being  impreached  or  impleaded  by  virtue  of  any  charge 
or  bond  thereupon  made  by  the  said  John  by  statute  merchant, 
recognisance,  annuity  or  otherwise,  but  if  they  be  so  impleaded  so  as 
to  lose  the  said  moiety  or  any  parcel  thereof  by  execution  of  judgment 
against  them  rendered  without  fraud  or  collusion  by  reason  of  any 
charges  thereupon  made  by  the  said  John  since  he  espoused  the  said 
Joan,  execution  shall  be  sued  upon  the  said  recognsiance.  Dated 
Kenyngton  near  London,  12  July  38  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   12  July. 

July   12.         Robert  Vynter  of  Maydenstan  to  Thomas  de  Neuby  and  Michael  de 
Westminster.  Ravendale    clerks.       Recognisance    for    40   marks,   to   be   levied,   in 
default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Kent. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

July  13.         Robert  Vynter  of  Kent  to  Thomas  Morice  of  London.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  40/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Kent. 


38  EDWARD  III. 


69 


1364.  Membrane  15(1. 

Juno  28.         Jolui  May  and  Tlionms  dc  Hynynden  of  Bcrk.shiro  to  Queen  Philippa. 
Westminster.   Recognisance   for   40/.,    to    be   levied   etc.    in   Reikshire. 

Charter  of  John  Knyght  of  Gaddon,  son  and  heir  of  William  Knyght 
soniotiiue  of  Gaddon,  giving  with  warranty  to  John  Clotrij)stok  clerk 
and  William  de  Mettone,  aiid  to  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  John 
Colmpstok,  all  his  lands  ^\'hich  descended  to  him  by  inheritance  in  the 
parishes  of  Ufcolmp  and  Helecombe  Regis  (sic).  Witnesses  :  Henry 
Percehey,  William  Walrand,  William  Prestecote,  Roger  atte  Broke, 
John  Souewelle.     Dated  Midsummer  eve  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   28  June. 

July  1.  William    de    Swanlond    to    Thomas    atte    Legh.  Recognisance  for 

Westminster.  213/.  56'.  4(/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands   and 
chattels  in  Hertfordshii-e. 

Writing  of  John  Wynchestre  of  Southfletc  co.  Kent,  being  a  quit- 
claim with  warranty  to  the  king,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  lands 
and  rents  with  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats  and  wharfages 
(quuruafjus)  sometime  of  Robert  Mount  of  Derteford,  which  the  king 
has  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Thomas  Houchon,  William  de 
Fulleswich  and  Roger  Balle  of  Derteford,  and  they  had  of  the  gift 
and  feoffment  of  the  said  Robert.  Witnesses  :  William  Fynchynden, 
William  Wychyngham,  William  Holden,  Robert  Beleknap,  Michael 
Skyllyng.     Dated  London,   3  July  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of   acknowledgment,    4  July. 

Charter  of  John  sometime  son  of  Luke  de  Grendon  of  Abynton, 
giving  with  warranty  to  Amory  parson  of  Bokeswortht,  Hamon  de  Ware, 
William  Wightman  and  John  Ingel  of  Bassyngborne,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  all  his  lands  in  the  town  and  fields  of  Abynton,  with  meadows, 
feedings,  pastures,  rents,  services,  wards,  reliefs,  marriages  etc.  thereto 
belonging.  Witnesses  :  John  atte  Barre,  William  de  Childerlee, 
William  atte  Strete,  William  Baudre  of  Abynton,  William  Filz  Rauf, 
Simon  Hayt  of  Bassyngborne,  William  Pynk  of  the  same.  Dated 
Abynton,  Saturday  the  Feast  of  St.  Peter  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  July. 

Writing  of  Richard  earl  of  Arondell  and  Surrey,  granting  to  John  de 
Foxle  and  Agnes  his  Avife  a  yearly  rent  of  10  "marks  and  one  gown  for 
the  said  Agnes  suitable  to  her  estate  of  the  price  of  205.  during  her 
life,  the  said  rent  to  be  taken  at  the  terms  of  St.  Andrew  and  St.  John 
by  even  portions  of  all  the  said  earl's  lands  in  Kyngeston  by  Lewes, 
the  gown  or  205.  at  All  Saints'  day,  with  power  of  distraint  if  the  same 
be  in  arrear  ;  also  granting  to  the  said  Agnes  the  profit  of  the  earl's 
dovecot  in  Kyngeston  for  her  life,  with  free  ingress  and  egress.  Dated 
his  castle  of  Lewes,  Sunday  after  the  Annunciation  38  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  6  July. 


June  14. 
Westminster. 


Robert  de  Horneby  clerk  to  John  de  Lancastre  clerk.  Recognisance 
for  40/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Yorkshire. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Robert 
pay  to  the  said  John  or  to  the  prior  of  Lancastre  20/.  at  Michaelmas 
next. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 


10 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364.  Membrane  I5d — cont. 

July  15.  Leonard  Carru  to  David  de  WoUore   clerk.     Recognisance   for  41. , 

Westminster,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Devon. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Leonard 
pay  405.  on  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next. 
Cancelled  on  -payment. 

Writing  of  Roger  son  of  John  de  Schulvestrode  knight  {militis), 
being  a  quitclaim  to  Richard  earl  of  Arundell  of  all  the  lands  which 
descended  to  him  by  inheritance  in  Hamptonnet  co.  Sussex.  Dated 
Houeden  co.   York,  Monday  Midsummer  day   1364. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  29  July  at  York  before  William 
de  Skippewyth,  by  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus  potestatem  which  is  on 
the  files  of  chancery  for  this  year. 

July  24.        Walter  de  Thornhull  to  the  prior  of  Witham  of  the  Carthusian 
Westminster,  order.     Recognisance  for  201.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Dorset. 

Memorandum  that  John  Moubray  received  this  recognisance  by  a  writ 
which  is  on  the  files  of  chancery  among  writs  of  dedimus  potestatem 
for  this  year. 

Membrane  lid. 

Indenture  between  the  king  of  the  one  part  and  Henry  Godchep 
and  John  Double  of  London  of  the  other  part,  being  a  lease  of  the 
subsidy  in  Essex  and  Hertfordshire  upon  cloths  for  sale  granted  to 
the  king  by  the  lords  and  commons  of  the  realm  for  release  of  the 
forfeiture  of  alnage  thereupon  laid  of  old  time,  to  wit  id.  the  cloth 
of  assize  without  grain,  6d.  the  cloth  of  assize  of  '  Scarlett,'  5d.  the 
cloth  of  assize  of  half  grain,  the  moiety  thereof  for  every  half  cloth, 
and  proportionally  for  every  cloth  exceeding  the  half  cloth  by  3  ells 
or  more  which  is  not  a  whole  cloth,  or  exceeding  the  whole  cloth  of 
assize  by  3  ells  or  more,  to  hold  from  5  May  last  for  two  years, 
rendering  to  the  king  40  marks  a  year  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter 
by  even  portions  ;  covenant  by  the  king  that  in  case  the  said  subsidy 
or  any  parcel  thereof  cease  during  that  term  by  order  of  the  king  or 
council,  the  said  Henry  and  John,  their  deputies  and  heirs,  shall  be 
quit  of  their  farm  from  the  time  the  same  shall  first  cease  ;  that  they 
shall  be  quit  toward  the  king  in  time  to  come  of  any  impeachment 
touching  the  collection  and  administration  of  the  said  subsidy,  saving 
to  every  man  his  action  for  extortion  or  excess  by  them  committed  ; 
that  they  shall  not  be  compelled  to  render  account  to  the  king  of  the 
issues  of  the  subsidy,  but  only  to  answer  for  the  said  yearly  farm  ; 
that  they  may  have  licence  without  impeachment  of  the  king  or  his 
ministers  to  lease  the  subsidy  in  gross  or  in  parcel  to  any  who  will 
take  it ;  that  whereas  in  the  statute  it  is  contained  that  all  manner 
of  cloths  exposed  for  sale  before  being  sealed  with  the  seal  appointed 
for  the  purpose  shall  be  forfeit  to  the  king,  the  farmers  and  their 
deputies  shall  be  bound  to  dehver  by  indenture  to  the  sheriff  all  cloths 
found  so  forfeit,  and  he  shall  answer  for  them  upon  his  account,  so  that 
the  farmers  and  their  deputies  shall  thereby  be  discharged  of  render- 
ing account,  and  for  their  pains  for  the  king's  profit  in  that  behalf 
and  in  aid  of  their  great  farm  they  shall  have  to  their  own  use  the 
moiety  of  such  forfeitures  ;  that  in  case  they  shall  have  occasion  to 
sue  any  man  for  any  matter  concerning  their  farm,  the  king  Avill  make 
himself  a  party  in  their  aid ;    that  commissions  shall  be  made  to 


38  EDWARD  HI. 


71 


1364. 


Membrane  lid — cont. 


certain  persons  at  their  nomination  to  make  inquisition  in  tho  said 
counties  at  w liat  to\\ ns  and  places  cloths  are  made,  and  every  maker 
thei-eof  shall  be  forbidden  on  pain  of  foiieiture  to  sull'er  any  cloth 
to  pass  out  of  his  keeping  until  sealed  as  aforesaid  ;  that  from 
Michaelmas  forward  the  seals  Avhich  serve  this  office  shall  bo  new 
made  by  advice  of  the  council  and  tho  farmers,  and  the  other  seals 
shall  be  given  up  and  put  in  the  treasury  to  avoid  hurt  which  might 
come  to  tho  farmers  during  their  said  term  ;  that  in  case  after  that 
term  the  subsidy  shall  be  further  leased  and  the  said  Hemy  and 
John  A\  ill  take  it,  they  shall  have  the  preference  over  others  for  tlie 
sum  that  others  would  give  without  fraud  or  covin.  Dated 
Westminster,  10  May  38  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  that  James  de  London  '  fisshmongere '  and  John 
Squyer  of  London  have  mainperned  for  the  said  farmers  to  answer 
for  the  said  farm  in  case  of  their  default. 


Indenture  between  the  king  of  the  one  part  and  John  Ray  of  Coventre 
of  the  other  part,  being  a  like  lease,  mutatis  mutandis,  of  the  same 
subsidy  in  Warwickshire,  Leycestershire,  Salop  and  Staffordshire 
from  Michaelmas  last  for  two  years,  rendering  50  marks  a  year  ;  and 
the  said  John  shall  have  the  third  part  of  forfeited  cloths.  Dated 
Westminster,  28  October.     French. 

Memorandum  that  William  Palmere  of  Frankton,  Richard  de 
Derlaston  and  Richard  de  Hampton  have  mainperned  {as  above). 

Like  indentures  of  lease  of  the  said  subsidy  are  made  as  below, 
to  wit  : 

To  John  Chirbury  in  Herefordshire  for  two  years  rendering  5  marks 
a  year,  by  mainprise  of  Ralph  Spigurnell  and  John  de 
Waddes worth,  taking  the  third  part  of  forfeited  cloths. 
Dated  Westminster  5  October. 

To  Henry  Colas  of  Gildeford  taverner  in  Kent  for  three  years 
rendering  40  marks  a  year,  by  mainprise  of  Bernard  Coke  of 
Gildeford  and  Peter  Semere  of  Gildeford,  taking  the  third  part 
of  forfeited  cloths.     Dated  Westminster,  12  December.    French 

July  18.  To  the  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London  or  to  his  heutenant.  Order 
Westminster,  to  set  free  by  a  mainprise  John  de  Cicestre,  taken  and  detained  in  the 
said  Tower  by  the  king's  command;  as  he  has  found  sure  main- 
pernors to  content  the  king  of  a  debt  from  him  due,  for  which 
he  is  so  detained,  the  names  of  which  mainpernors  and  the  form  of 
the  mainprise  remain  with  the  treasurer.  By  K. 

July  12.  To  the  coroners  in  Westmoreland.  Order  to  stay  altogether  the 
Westminster,  execution  of  the  king's  ^\Tit  to  them  addressed,  ordering  them  to 
attach  Hugh  de  Querton  by  his  body  for  a  contempt,  so  as  to  have 
him  before  the  king  in  chancery  at  a  set  day  in  the  writ  contained  ; 
as  John  de  Stayndrop  and  John  de  Whitfeld  of  that  county  have 
mainperned  in  chancery  to  have  him  there  on  the  aforesaid  day  to 
answer  for  that  contempt,  and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  the 
court  shall  determine.  By  0. 

Membrane  \M. 

Charter  of  Thomas  son  and  heir  of  John  Iwayn  of  Bretforton,  giving 
with  warranty  to  John  de  Morehall  by  Alyncestre  and  Agnes  his  wife, 


72  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1364.  Membrane  13d — cont. 

Thomas  son  of  the  said  John  de  Morehall,  and  the  heirs  and  assigns 
of  the  said  John,  four  messuages,  four  virgates  of  land,  and  one  wood 
in  Upton  Wode  called  Rolveswode,  all  in  Upton  by  Haseloure,  with 
meadows,  feedings,  pastures  etc.,  rendering  yearly  to  the  grantor, 
his  heirs  or  assigns,  one  rose  at  Midsummer  during  the  life  of  John  de 
Morehall  and  Thomas  his  son,  and  after  their  decease  201.  a  year 
at  Michaelmas,  reserving  power  to  enter  and  hold  the  premises 
in  default  of  payment.  Witnesses  :  John  Rous,  Ralph  Pauncefot, 
William  de  Ippewell,  John  de  Belne,  Thomas  Wodeward,  John  Calewe, 
Richard  de  Berton,  William  Somenour.  Dated  Upton,  Sunday  after 
St.  James  the  Apostle  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Hatfeld  co. 
Hertford,  31  July. 

Indenture  made  between  Thomas  Iwayn  citizen  of  London  of  the 
one  part  and  William  Youman  citizen  and  carpenter  of  the  said  city 
and  Margery  his  wife  of  the  other  part,  being  a  demise  with  warranty 
of  two  shops  in  Fletestrete  in  the  suburb  of  London  between  the 
tenement  which  the  said  William  holds  of  the  churchwardens  of 
St.  Dunstan  West  on  the  east  and  the  brewhouse  of  the  said  Thomas 
on  the  west,  M'ith  a  garden  by  them  extending  from  Fletestrete  to  the 
stable  of  the  said  Thomas,  to  the  said  William  and  Margery  and  to  James 
their  son  for  their  three  lives,  rendering  yearly  30s.  at  the  four  usual  terms 
by  even  portions,  reserving  power  of  distraint  if  the  rent  be  in  arrear, 
and  of  ejectment  for  lack  of  distraint.  Witnesses  :  John  Rote,  Jordan 
de  Barton,  William  Persshore,  Roger  le  Parchemyner,  William  Freman. 
Dated  Fletestrete,  the  eve  of  All  Saints  37  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Thomas  Iwayn  and 
William  Yoman  at  Hatfeld,   31   July  this  year. 

Indenture  between  Thomas  Iwayn  of  the  one  part  and  William 
Youman  '  ferrour  '  of  London  and  Margery  his  wife  of  the  other  part, 
being  a  demise  with  warranty  of  a  brewhouse  called  '  le  Ledeneporche  ' 
with  two  shops  adjoining  and  the  vessels  and  utensils  therein,  situate 
in  Fletestrete  in  the  suburb  of  London  in  the  parish  of  St.  Dunstan 
West  between  a  tenement  held  for  life  by  William  Persshore  on  the 
west  and  a  house  pertaining  to  the  church  of  St.  Dunstan  on  the  east, 
to  the  said  William  and  Margery  and  to  Cicely  their  daughter  now 
born  for  their  three  lives,  rendering  yearly  4  marks  at  the  four  usual 
terms  by  even  portions  and  a  moiety  of  the  quit  rent  thereof  yearly 
issuing  to  St.  Bartholomew  in  Westsmethefeld  London,  and 
maintaining  the  said  house,  shops,  vessels  and  utensils  so  as  to  leave 
the  same  in  as  good  state  as  they  received  them  or  better,  reserving 
power  of  distraint  if  the  rent  be  in  arrear,  and  of  ejectment  for  lack  of 
distraint.  Witnesses  :  William  Persshore,  Jordan  de  Barton,  William 
de  Bathe,  John  Rote,  Adam  de  Grymesby.  Dated  London,  6  June 
38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum   of   acknowledgment   {aa   the  last). 

July  10.        To  Henry  Grene  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hold  pleaa 

Westminster,  before  the  king.    Order  not  to  proceed  without  advising  the  king  to 

take  any  assize  arraigned  before  them  concerning  the  lands  in  Suffolk 

which  were  of  Giles  de  Neketon  deceased,  tenant  by  knight  service 

of  the  abbey  of  St.  Edmund  lately  void  and  in  the  king's  hand,  and 


38  EDWARD  III. 


73 


1364. 


Membrane  I3d — cont. 


July  15. 
Westminster. 


are  in  tlio  king's  hand  by  liis  death  and  by  reason  of  tlie  nonage  of 
his  heii-,  or  concerning  any  parcel  thereof  ;  as  the  king  by  letters 
patent  has  coniniitted  the  wardship  of  those  lands  to  Helmyngus 
Leget  his  yeoman  to  hold  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  heir  for 
a  set  farm  yearly  to  be  rendered ;  and  now  the  king  has  learned  that 
certain  persons,  scheming  to  defraud  the  king  of  that  wardshij)  and 
for  disherison  of  the  heir,  have  arraigned  divers  assizes  before  the 
said  justices.  By  K. 

To  John  Moubray  and  Edmund  do  Chelreye  justices  of  assize 
appointed  in  Devon.  Order  not  to  proceed  without  advising  the  king 
to  take  an  assize  of  novel  disseisin  arraigned  by  Oeorge  de  Colaton 
and  Desiderata  his  wife,  Robert  Westcote  and  Margery  his  wife, 
and  Henry  Holwell  and  Isabel  his  w'lio  against  John  Oary,  Margaret 
his  wife  and  others  in  the  original  writ  named,  concerning  a  messuage, 
one  carucate  of  land,  8  acres  of  wood,  furze  and  heath  and  22s.  3d.  of 
rent  in  Logliingcote,  which  were  of  John  de  Loghingcote  outlawed  for  the 
death  of  William  Pynson  feloniously  slain,  and  are  in  the  king's  hand  by 
reason  of  his  outlawry,  if  the  tenements  put  in  view  are  the  same 
which  are  in  tlie  king's  hand  by  reason  of  that  outlawry ;  as  for 
a  set  farm  yearly  to  be  rendered  to  him  the  king  by  letters  patent 
has  committed  the  keeping  of  the  premises  to  the  said  John  Cary 
so  long  as  they  shall  remain  in  his  hand,  and  now  the  king  has 
learned  that  the  said  George  and  others  have  arraigned  the  assize 
aforesaid.  By  K. 

Aug.  6.  William   Colman   to   William   Abbot   of   Kelleseye.     Recognisance 

Westminst-or.  for  405.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Hertfordshire. 

Charter  of  Thomas  parson  of  Dounham  within  the  Isle  of  Ely,  giving 
with  warranty  to  John  Swyft  of  Pakefeld  co.  Suffolk  and  Katherine 
his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  of  Katherine  a  messuage  lying  in  the  town 
of  Ely  behind  the  butchers'  selds  on  the  north  between  a  messuage 
of  Katherine  de  Everesholt  and  a  messuage  of  Richard  de  Leycestre, 
the  south  head  abutting  upon  the  public  way  below  the  said  selds 
on  the  north  and  the  north  head  upon  a  tenement  of  John  de  Weston 
]  and   Walter   Canne.      Witnesses  :      John   de    Bedeford,    Adam     de 

Walsyngham,  John  Benet,  John  de  Pulton,  John  de  Wetyngge, 
John  Driffeld,  William  de  Cley.  Dated  Ely,  Thursday  after  the 
Annunciation  37  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Dounham 
CO.  Cantebrigge,   15  August  this  year. 


Membrane  \2d. 

July  11.  To  W.  bishop  of  Worcester.     Order  to  grant  John  de  Ledecombe 

Westminster,  the  king's  clerk  such  a  yearly  pension  as  may  befit  the  giver  and  should 
bind  the  receiver  to  him,  causing  the  said  clerk  to  have  letters  under 
his  seal  thereupon,  and  writiiag  again  by  the  bearer  what  he  will  do  ; 
as  by  reason  of  his  new  creation  the  bishop  is  bound  in  such  a  pension 
to  one  of  the  king's  clerks  at  the  king's  nomination  until  provision 
be  made  him  of  a  suitable  benefice,  and  the  king  has  nominated  the 
said  John,  whose  advancement  he  has  at  heart.  By  p.s.  [26357.] 


74 


CALENDAR    OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364.  Membrane  12d — cont. 

July  13.  To  John  Moubray  and  Edmund  de  Chelreye  justices  of  assize  in 
Westminster.  Devon  and  Somerset.  Order  not  to  proceed  until  further  orders 
to  take  any  inquisition  of  the  manors  of  Sutton  Lucy,  Colewill, 
Plumtrowe,  Wode  Hiwyssh,  Harleston,  Donterton  and  Suthpole  co. 
Devon,  the  manor  of  Wotton  Criket  and  the  hamlet  of  Northome  co. 
Somerset,  or  of  any  of  them  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  that  by  colour 
of  a  writ  of  nisi  prius  to  them  addressed  the  said  justices  purpose 
to  take  certain  inquisitions  of  the  said  manors  and  hamlet,  which 
were  of  Thomas  de  Courteneye  tenant  in  chief  and  are  in  the  king's 
hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  and  to  pro- 
ceed therein  without  advising  the  king  would  tend  to  the  prejudice 
of  the  king  and  of  the  said  heir.  By  K. 


July  12.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.     Whereas  at  the  last  parliament 

Westminster,  among  other  things  it  was  ordered,  for  particular  causes  there  shewn,that 

no  English  merchant  should  by  himself  nor  by  another  by  any  covin 

ply  any  trade  but  one  to  be  by  him  chosen  before  Candlemas  last, 

and  to  maintain  those  ordinances  the  king,  with  assent  of  the  nobles 

and  others  of  his  council,  by  his  letters  patent  has  ordered  that  no 

foreigner  or  native  on  pain  of  forfeiture  shall  meddle  in  the  craft 

of  fishmongers  save  only  those  of  that  craft,  the  merchant  vintners 

of  Gascony  bringing  wines  to  England  excepted,  to  whom  the  king 

has  given  licence,  in  order  to  keep  the  money  in  England,  to  buy 

herring  and  take  it  to  their  country  ;     that  the    fish   in   the    hands 

of  the  fishmongers  in  London  shall  be  sold  in  three  places,  to  wit  in 

Briggestret,  Oldefisshstret  and  the  place  called  Lestokkes,'  stokfissh  ' 

excepted  which  belongs  to  the  craft  of  '  stokfisshmongeres,'  and  all 

fish  coming  to  the  said  city  shall  be  discharged  only  at  Billyngesgate 

and    London    Bridge    below    bridge,    and    above    bridge    between 

Dibbleswharf  and  the  Fresshfissh wharf,  and  shall  be  lodged  openly 

by  day  and  not  by  night  nor  secretly  {par  muscet)  ;  that  no  fish,  unless 

it   belong   to  those  free  of  the  said  craft,  shall  be  lodged  until  the 

wardens  of  the  craft  have  knowledge  and  be  certified  of  the  quality 

and  quantity  thereof  by  those  that  bring  it  on  pain  of  forfeiture  of  the  fish, 

to  the  end  that  the  king's  caters  and  those  of  lords  and  others  may  be 

served  of  the  first  prise,  that  it  may  be  known  how  much  fish  is  in 

the  city,  and  the  prise  be  made  accordingly  ;  that  no  foreigner  bringing 

fish  thither  shall  take  a  host  to  sell  the  same  save  of  those  free  of  the  said 

craft,  so  that  the  traffic  of  the  fishmongers  be  not  made  dearer  by 

those  having  no  knowledge  of  the  craft,  and  no  foreigner  or  native 

shall  on  pain  of  imprisonment  and  of  losiag  his  fish  sell  fish  to  sell 

again  but  to  fishmongers  made  free  in  their  '  leyhalymode,'  but  any 

man  may  sell  in  gross  to  whom  he  will  for  his  own  stock  and  not  to  sell 

again  ;  that  the  fish[mongers]  of  the  city  and  their  successors  may  every 

year  elect  four  persons  of  their  craft  who  shall  be  sworn  twice  a  year 

in  their  '  leyhalymode  '  in  presence  of  the  mayor  or  sheriffs  or  of  their 

deputies  to  supervise  the  buying  and  selling  of  fish,  to  rule  the  craft 

to  the  common  weal,  and  to  punish  those  in  whom  default  shall  be  found 

at  the  discretion  of  the  said  four  persons  by  aid  of  the  mayor  and 

sheriffs  when  need  be ;  and  it  is  the  intent  of  the  king  and  council  that 

the  '  stokfisshmongers  '  shall  sell  their  '  stokfissh  '  in  all  places  they 

please  in  the  said  city,  but  shall  not  meddle  in  the  sale  of  other  fish, 

if  it  be  not  fish  that  they  bring  from  parts  beyond  to  sell  in  gross  to 

the  king's  caters  and  others  for  their  store,  or  to  fishmongers  mad© 


38  EDWARD  III.  76 


1364,  Membrane  I2d — cont. 

free  In  the  '  Icyhalymodo  '  to  soil  again  and  to  no  other  on  the  pain 
aforesaid,  and  that  '  birlosteres,'  to  wit  poor  men  and  women  who 
go  crying  fish  in  the  city,  may  go  by  the  streets  as  heretofore  crying 
and  selling  to  all  who  will  buy  the  fish  they  carry  and  have  bought  of 
free  fishmongers,  so  that  they  stand  in  no  set  place  to  sell,  also  that 
men  and  women  coming  from  '  upland '  with  their  fish  from  the 
Thames  and  other  rivers  round  about,  caught  by  themselves  or  given 
theni  by  their  servants,  going  about  the  streets  may  sell  their  fish  as 
heretofore  in  the  city  and  suburbs  to  any  who  will  buy  in  gross  or  by 
retail  for  their  own  meat,  but  not  to  sell  again  save  to  free  fishmongers, 
and  they  shall  stand  in  no  street  or  set  place  on  pain  of  imprisonment  : 
order  to  cause  the  matters  before  rehearsed  to  be  proclaimed  and 
observed.     French. 

[Fcedera.     City  of  London  Letter  Book  O,  Gal.  p.   169.] 

July  15.  To  the  same.  Wliereas  etc.  {as  above)  ;  and  whereas  it  is  shewn 
Westminster,  the  king  and  council  that  men  of  divers  crafts  in  the  city  of  London 
meddle  in  the  craft  of  '  draperie,'  making  divers  deceits  and  frauds 
in  plying  the  same  to  the  hurt  of  king  and  people  contrary  to  the 
ordinance  aforesaid,  the  king,  with  assent  of  the  nobles  and  others 
of  his  council,  has  ordered  by  letters  patent  that  no  man  shall  exercise 
the  craft  in  the  said  city  nor  in  the  suburbs  if  he  have  not  been  therein 
apprenticed  or  otherwise  received  by  assent  of  the  craft  ;  that  every  man 
of  the  crafts  of  dyers,  '  tisters  '  and  '  fullers  '  keep  to  his  own  craft, 
and  meddle  not  in  making,  buying  or  selling  any  manner  of  cloth 
or  '  draperie  '  on  pain  of  imprisonment  and  loss  of  such  cloth  or  the 
value  of  it ;  that  no  man  having  cloth  for  sale  in  the  said  city  and 
suburbs  shall  on  the  same  pain  sell  but  to  drapers  free  of  the  craft, 
if  it  be  not  in  gross  to  lords  and  others  who  would  buy  for  their  own  use 
and  not  to  retail ;  that  the  drapers  free  of  their  craft  in  the  said  city 
may  every  year  elect  four  persons  of  their  own  craft,  who  shall  be  sworn 
twice  a  year  in  presence  of  the  mayor  to  supervise  the  crafts 
aforesaid  that  no  default  or  deceit  be  therein  used,  to  rule  the  craft 
of  '  draperie  '  to  the  common  weal,  and  to  punish  those  in  whom 
default  shall  be  found  at  the  discretion  of  the  said  four  persons  by 
aid  of  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  when  need  be,  which  mayor  and  sheriffs 
shall  be  aiding  them  at  their  request,  and  those  four  persons  shall  have 
power  to  take  an  oath  of  all  received  into  the  craft  to  exercise  that  which 
thereto  belongs  without  fraud,  saving  always  to  the  prior  of 
St.  Bartholomew  in  Smythfeld  and  to  other  lords  having  fairs  in  the 
said  suburbs  by  grant  of  the  king  and  his  forefathers  their  fairs, 
liberties  and  free  customs  therein  used  from  the  time  of  such  grants, 
inasmuch  as  the  king  would  not  that  damage  be  done  them  by  colour 
of  this  ordinance,  saving  also  to  the  merchant  vintners  of  England 
and  Gascony  the  liberties  to  tliem  granted  by  the  king  :  order  to 
cause  all  these  matters  to  be  proclaimed  and  observed  in  form 
aforesaid.  French. 
[Ibid.,  p.  168.] 

To  the  same.  Whereas  etc.  {as  above)  ;  and  whereas  for  particular 
causes,  by  assent  of  the  nobles  and  others  of  his  council,  the  king  has 
ordered  that  no  merchant  nor  other  of  the  realm  shall  go  to  Gascony  or 
elsewhere  in  those  parts  to  buy  wines  and  bring  them  to  England, 
nor   ply   trade    therein,    nor     meddle     with    the    same,   to    wit  in 


76 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364. 


Membrane  12d — cont. 


London  except  only  those  free  of  the  vintners'  craft,  and  in 
other  cities,  boroughs  and  towns  those  who  have  knowledge  of  the 
craft,  for  whom  it  is  lawful  to  fetch  wine  from  foreign  parts,  bring 
it  to  England,  and  sell  their  wine  for  reasonable  gain -in  gross  or  at 
retail  to  lords  and  others  as  they  shall  see  best  to  their  profit ;  that 
merchants  of  Gascony  and  other  foreigners  shall  sell  their  wines  which 
they  bring  to  England  in  gross  by  the  tun  and  the  pipe,  to  lords  and 
others  for  their  store  in  their  own  lodgings,  and  to  the  merchant 
vintners  who  will  buy,  and  not  at  retail  nor  by  small  quantities  ;  that 
no  man,  native  or  foreign,  after  bringing  wines  into  the  realm,  may 
without  the  king's  special  licence  take  them  out  of  the  realm  upon 
any  pretence  ;  that  the  merchants  of  the  craft  of  traffic  in  wines 
shall  every  year  choose  four  persons  of  the  most  sufficient,  la\vful 
and  knowledgeable  of  the  craft  not  holding  taverns  in  the  city  of 
London,  and  shall  present  them  to  the  mayor  of  the  said  city,  or  of  other 
cities,  boroughs  and  towns  where  such  craft  is  exercised  or  to  the 
bailiff  or  president  where  no  mayor  is,  and  those  four  persons  shall  be 
sworn  in  presence  of  the  mayor,  bailiff  or  president  to  supervise  the 
sale  of  all  manner  of  wines  whatsoever  at  retail  in  taverns  at  a  reasonable 
price  for  such  wine  according  to  its  name  and  condition,  and  the 
taverners  shall  be  ruled  by  them,  and  they  shall  correct  faults  found 
in  the  exercise  of  that  craft,  and  punish  them  at  their  discretion  with 
the  aid  of  the  mayor,  bailiff  or  president ;  that  to  the  end  the  least 
money  shall  go  out  of  the  realm  and  it  be  best  retained,  licence  is  given 
to  the  merchant  vintners  of  England  to  buy  cloth,  and  to  the  merchants 
of  Gascony  bringing  wine  to  England  to  buy  dried  fish  of  Cornewaille 
and  Deveneshire,  herring  and  cloth  throughout  the  realm,  and  take 
it  out  of  the  realm  to  Gascony  and  elsewhere  there  to  be  sold  to  their 
profit,  and  of  the  money  thereof  arising  to  buy  wines  there  and  bring 
them  into  the  realm  to  sell  therein  and  make  their  profit  without 
disturbance,  so  that  they  do  not  sell  nor  cause  to  be  sold  in  the  realm 
nor  elsewhere  cloth,  fish  nor  herring  except  in  Gascony  and  other  parts 
on  that  side,  nor  that  Gascons  nor  other  foreigners  sell  wine  in  England 
at  retail  but  in  gross  by  tuns  and  pipes  as  aforesaid  ;  that  all  manner 
of  wines  coming  to  London  shall  be  discharged  and  landed  above 
London  Bridge  towards  the  west  and  towards  the  Vintry,  so  that  the 
king's  butler,  '  gaugeors '  and  '  sercheors '  may  have  view  and 
knowledge  of  the  places  where  wines  are  lodged,  and  may  take  his 
customs  and  prises  and  do  what  pertains  to  their  office  ;  that  no 
merchant  nor  other  native  or  foreign  of  whatsoever  condition  shall 
sell  or  buy  wines,  cloth,  fish  or  herring  otherwise  than  is  aforesaid 
on  pain  of  imprisonment  and  of  losing  the  goods  so  bought  or  sold  ; 
and  that  these  ordinances  shall  be  kept  in  all  cities,  boroughs  and  free 
towns  within  the  realm  by  the  vintners  and  their  successors  for  ever  : 
order,  on  sight  of  these  presents,  to  cause  all  these  matters  to  be 
proclaimed  throughout  their  baliwick,  and  to  be  observed  in  form 
abovesaid.  French. 
[Ibid.,  p.  169.] 


Membrane  \\d. 

Oct.  27.         To  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Redynges.     Request  to  admit  Master 

Windsor.      John  Sponle  the  king's  mason  to  their  house  and  to  minister  to  him 

such  maintenance  as  Alan  de  Beverle  deceased  had  there  at  the  king's 

req^uest,  causing  letters  under  their  common  seal  to  be  made  to  him 


38  EDWARD  III. 


77 


1364. 


Membrane  lid — cont. 


witl\  mention  of  A\'hat  lio  sliall  so  take,  for  which  the  king  will  be  the 
more  bound  to  that  house,  and  wTiting  again  by  the  bearer  what  they 
will  do  at  this  request ;  as  the  king  is  sending  the  said  John  to  them, 
willing  for  his  good  service  to  make  provision  for  his  maintenance. 

By  p.s.  [26422.] 

Oct.  9.  Stephen  atte  Hull  to  William  Tirwhit  clerk  and  Robert  de  Oxenford 

VVestmin=itor.   '  goldsmyth.'     Recognisance  for  lOL,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 


I 


Writing  of  Hugh  Tyrel,  son  and  heir  of  Hugh  Tyrel  knight,  being  a 
release  to  William  bishop  of  Winchester  of  all  actions  real  and  personal 
for  debt,  account,  covenant  or  otherwise.  Dated  London,  9  October 
38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   11   October. 

Indenture  made  between  Richard  son  of  Richard  de  Hemingtone 
and  Thomas  de  Hemyngtone  of  Bodekesham,  being  the  defeasance 
of  a  yearly  rent  of  10  marks  to  be  taken  of  the  said  Richard's  manor  of 
Hemingtone  co.  Norhampton  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas,  in  which  rent 
the  said  Richard  son  of  Richard  is  bound  by  a  writing  of  his  to  the 
said  Thomas,  upon  condition  that  Thomas,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
shall  peaceably  hold,  without  being  ejected  or  troubled  by  any  writ 
to  which  Richard  the  son  or  his  heirs  shall  appear  in  the  king's  court 
or  otherwise  by  their  assent  or  agreement,  two  messuages,  85  acres 
2  roods  of  land  and  51s.  Id.  of  rent  in  Bodekesham  and  6d.  of  rent 
in  Swafham  contained  in  a  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  in  1 1  Edward  I 
between  Adam  de  Sancto  licio  and  Isolda  his  wife  plaintiffs  and 
Ellis  de  Bekyngham,  Robert  de  Vaus  and  Alice  his  wife  deforciants, 
and  quitclaimed  to  Thomas,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  by  writing  of  the 
said  Richard  son  of  Richard,  of  which  messuages  one  is  called 
Sevencoterowe,  the  other  (then  a  messuage  now  a  toft)  Feltewelles. 
Dated  Bodekesham,  Thursday  St.  Peter's  Chains  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  23  October. 


Oct.  24.         Hugh  Chastillun  knight  and  John  Abberburj'  to  David  de  Wollore 
Westminster,  and  Michael  de  Ravendale  clerks.     Joint  and  several  recognisance 
for  61.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels 
in  Bukingharashire. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Hugh  and 
John  or  some  other  in  their  name  pay  60s.  in  the  quinzaine  of  Trinity 
next. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Michael. 

Oct.  24.         John  de  Kyngesfold  of  Sussex  to  John  de  Chichestre  citizen  and 
Westminster,  alderman  of  London.     Recognisance  for  3001.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in 
Sussex. 


Oct.  25.         John  de  Folkyngham  parson  of  a  mediety  of  the  church  of  West 
Westminster.  Walton  in  the  diocese  of  Norwich  to  Michael  de  Ravendale  clerk. 
Recognisance  for  40Z.,  to  be  levied  etc,  of  his  lands  and   chattels   and 
■  ecclesiastical  goods   in  Norfolk. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


78 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364. 

Oct.  26.         Richard   Pauncefot   to   William    de    Hoghton.     Recognisance   for 
Westminster,  m.,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Somerset. 


Membrane  lid — cont. 
to   William    de    Hoghton. 


William  de  Hoghton  and  Richard  Pauncefot  to  Henry  de  Pershay 
and  Robert  de  Hacche.  Recognisance  for  45Z.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in 
Somerset. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Henry. 

Oct.  27.         William  de  Gryndale  to  Godfrey  Foliaumbe  knight.     Recognisance 
Weatmmster.  for  100/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Leycestershire. 

Oct.  26.         Richard  le  Scrop  knight  to  Thomas  de  Neuby    and   Michael   de 
Westminster.   Ravendale    clerks.     Recognisance    for    40Z.,    to    be    levied    etc.    in 
Yorkshire. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Richard 
pay  20Z.  at  the  Purification  next. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Thomas. 

Writing  of  Joan  who  was  Avife  of  Thomas  de  Graveshend  knight, 
being  a  quitclaim  to  Thomas  de  Ingelby,  for  a  sum  of  money  in  hand 
paid,  of  all  right  in  name  of  dower  or  otherwise  in  all  lands,  rents  and 
services  which  Sir  Thomas  de  Ingelby  had  or  has  in  Chaldewell  co. 
Essex  of  the  gift  of  her  said  husband.  Witnesses  :  John  de 
Somerton,  John  atte  Rame,  John  de  Sadyngton,  William  Porter, 
Thomas  de  Ellerbek.  Dated  London,  the  feast  of  All  Saints 
38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  November 


Membrane  lOd. 

Nov.  25.        John  de  Cressyngham  citizen  of  London  the  elder  to  John  Philip 

Westminster,  parson  of  Purlee  co.   Essex.     Recognisance  for  200Z.,  to  be  levied, 

in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 

Indenture  made  between  John  de  Cressyngham  citizen  of  London 
and  John  Philipp  parson  of  Purlee  co.  Essex,  being  a  defeasance  of  the 
foregoing  recognisance  payable  in  the  church  of  St.  Paul  London, 
upon  condition  that  John  de  Cressyngham  shall  make  his 
will,  and  shall  thereby  devise  so  often  as  he  shall  make  it  all 
tenements  and  rents  he  had  in  London  at  the  date  of  these 
indentures  in  these  words  {Latin  text  follows)  :  '  To  John  my  son 
and  Maud  his  wife  all  my  tenements  and  rents  in  the  city  of  London 
in  the  parishes  of  St.  James  Garlekhithe  and  St.  Michael  Bassyngeshawe 
immediately  after  my  decease,  and  to  the  heirs  of  John's  body,  with  the 
reversion  of  all  my  tenements  and  rents  in  the  parish  of  St.  Faith 
Oldedeneslane  after  the  decease  of  Maud  my  wife ' :  also  that  the 
said  John  the  father  from  this  day  forth  during  all  his  life  shall  in 
his  own  house  find  and  maintain  in  meat  and  raiment  the  wife  of 
John  the  son  and  all  issue  between  them  begotten  from  the 
date  of  these  presents  as  well  as  himself  and  his  own  wife  ;  also 
defeasance  of  a  bond  of  the  said  John  Philip  to  John  de  Cressyngham 
the  father  in  1001.  payable  to  him  or  his  attorney  at  London  in  the 
church  of  St.  James  Garlekhithe  on  St.  Andrew's  day  next,  upon 
condition  that  John  Philip  shall  at  the  said  church  pay  him  at  the 
octaves  of  Easter  next  201.,  and  shall  for  seven  years  beginning  at 


38  EDWARD  III.  79 


13G4.  '  Membrane  lOd — cont. 

Easter  next  find  and  maintain  John  son  of  Jolin  do  Crcssyngham 
in  meat  and  raiment  as  belongs  to  a  gentleman  of  his  estate  appren- 
ticed to  bo  in  the  company  of  men  of  law  going  to  the  king's  court 
or  elsewhere  by  agreement  of  the  parties  ;  so  long  as  Jolm  the  son 
shall  not  be  so  found  as  aforesaid,  John  do  Cressyngham  the  father  shall 
be  discharged  of  n\aintenanco  of  the  said  Maud  ;  if  John  the  son  die 
witliin  the  said  term  and  Maud  take  another  husband,  he  shall  bo 
discharged  of  her  maintenance  and  of  their  issue  ;  if  Maud  die,  John 
riulipp  shall  be  discharged  of  the  maintenance  of  John  the  son. 
Dated  London,  Wednesday  before  St.  Andrew  38  Edward  III.  French. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  28  November. 

Indenture  made  between  the  king  and  Adam  de  Seint  Ive  of  London, 
being  a  lease  of  the  exchanges  as  well  of  his  own  and  of  all  other 
moneys,  gold  and  silver  plate,  as  of  broken  silver,  to  hold  by  him 
and  his  deputies  in  all  suitable  places,  the  city  of  York  excepted,  for 
two  years  from  Michaelmas  last,  rendering  200  marks  a  year  at 
Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  if  the  king  make  not  change 
of  his  moneys  during  that  term,  and  in  case  he  shall  so  do,  or  the  staple 
of  wool  and  hides  shall  be  held  in  England  within  the  said  term,  so 
that  others  will  give  a  greater  farm,  Adam  shall  have  the  exchanges 
in  preference  to  any  other  for  as  much  as  they  will  give  ;  the  king 
grants  that  no  man  shall  make  change  of  gold  or  silver  for  merchantable 
profit  save  the  said  Adam  and  his  deputies  during  that  term,  to  the  end 
that  none  shall  hurt  nor  defraud  the  said  exchanges ;  that  no 
sterlings  nor  old  gold  shall  be  received  at  his  mints  to  be  melted  but 
by  the  said  Adam  and  his  deputies,  save  always  that  if  any  of  the 
king's  allegiance  will  by  themselves  or  their  deputies  bring  to  the  mints 
gold  or  silver  money  to  change  or  melt,  and  will  lawfully  prove  by  their 
oath  that  it  is  their  lords'  money  or  their  oAvn  received  of  their  treasure, 
rents  or  otherwise  without  purchase  and  without  fraud,  hurt  or 
deceit  of  the  exchanges,  the  same  shall  be  there  received  without 
let  of  Adam  or  his  deputies,  and  no  alien  shall  bring  molten  gold  or 
silver  to  the  warden  of  the  money  to  make  money  thereof  unless  he 
shall  prove  by  oath  or  other  lawful  means  that  it  was  not  of  the  old 
gold  or  sterling  of  England,  and  no  native  unless  he  shall  likewise 
prove  that  it  was  not  purchased  to  hurt  or  defraud  the  exchanges  ; 
that  the  said  Adam  shall  have  in  the  said  mints  a  man  on  his  behalf 
at  his  cost  to  view  the  receipt  as  well  of  gold  as  of  silver,  and  to  take 
the  proof  in  manner  aforesaid,  and  thereupon  warrant  shall  be  given 
by  the  king  to  the  warden  and  the  masters  of  the  mints,  who  shall 
be  sworn  so  to  do  ;  and  that  Adam  shall  have  without  payment 
suitable  houses  at  the  mint  in  the  Tower  of  London  to  hold  change 
there  to  the  advantage  of  the  people,  and  in  other  places  where  mints 
are  held  the  king  shall  not  be  bound  to  find  him  houses.  Dat€d 
Westminster,  3  October  38  Edward  III.     French. 

[Foidera.] 

Oct.  3.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  at  their  peril,  on  sight  of  these 

Westminster,  presents,  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  in  the  city  and  suburbs 
of  London  forbidding  any  man  under  pain  of  forfeiture  publicly  or 
secretly  to  hold  exchanges  of  the  king's  and  other  moneys,  gold  and 
silver  plate  and  broken  silver  for  merchantable  profit  in  the  said 
city  and  suburbs  during  the  above  term  save  Adam  de  Seint  Ive 
of  London  and  his  deputies,  and  to  cause  any  found  so  doing  after 


80 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364. 


Membrane  lOcZ — cord. 


the  proclamation  to  be  taken  and  imprisoned,  and  the  money  to  be 
taken  as  forfeit  into  the  king's  hand,  certifying  in  chancery  from 
time  to  time  all  their  action  in  this  behalf  ;  as  the  king  has  com- 
mitted to  the  said  Adam  all  such  exchanges  to  hold  by  him  and  his 
deputies  in  the  king's  name  in  all  suitable  places  he  shall  please, 
namely  as  well  in  the  king's  mints  as  elsewhere,  the  city  of  York 
excepted,  ^ov  two  years  from  Michaelmas  last,  as  in  the  above 
indenture  is  contained.  By  C. 

[Ihid.-] 

'  To  the  wardens  and  masters  of  the  mint  in  the  Tower  of  London. 

Order  to  suffer  Adam  de  Seint  Ive  of  London  to  have  a  man  therein 
on  his  behalf  at  his  cost  to  oversee  the  gold  and  silver  which  shall  be 
received  in  the  said  mint,  and  to  take  the  proof  there  to  be  made 
according  to  the  form  of  the  above  indenture,  and  to  cause  houses 
in  the  same  suitable  for  holding  the  exchanges  to  be  delivered  to  him, 
according  to  the  covenants  made  between  the  king  and  the  said 
Adam,  to  whom  the  king  has  committed  for  a  set  term  the  exchanges 
of  gold  and  silver  money  in  the  city  of  London.  By  C. 

{Ihid.'] 

Membrane  9d. 

Oct.  27.         John  Laurence  parson  of  Hegh  Clere  to  Master  John  de  Branketre 
Westminster,  treasurer  of  St.  Peter  York.     Recognisance  for  45^.  payable  by  instal- 
ments ;    to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
and  ecclesastical  goods  in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 

Indenture,  made  at  London  27  October  38  Edward  III,  between 
Richard  de  Branketre  parson  of  Berghton  and  John  Laurence  parson  of 
Heghclere,  being  a  sale  of  the  profits,  tithes,  oblations,  corn  and  hay 
to  the  said  church  of  Berghton  pertaining  from  All  Saints  next  to  All 
Saints  following,  with  the  crop  of  3  acres  of  land  now  sown  with  wheat 
being  of  the  demesne  of  the  rectory,  rendering  at  London  to  Master 
John  de  Branketre  treasurer  of  York  45Z.  at  Midsummer  next  and  All 
Saints  following  by  even  portions,  and  the  said  John  [Laurence] 
shall  further  pay  to  the  said  treasurer  his  yearly  pension  of  13s.  4:d., 
shall  find  without  rebate  all  other  charges  ordinary  and  extraordinary 
of  old  time  laid  upon  the  said  church,  as  payments  of  seanage  (cenages) 
salaries  of  chaplains,  procurations  and  other  customs  and  aids  (tenths 
excepted)  if  any  shall  fall  within  that  year,  shall  at  the  end  of  the  year 
leave  3  acres  of  the  said  demesne,  to  be  by  the  said  Richard  or  his 
proctor  named,  sown  with  wheat  without  claiming  any  allowance,  shall 
keep  the  houses  of  the  rectory  from  all  damage  of  cattle,  not  suffering 
any  parson  or  other  to  do  hurt  thereto,  and  shall  so  far  as  he  may 
support  and  claim  all  rights,  honours  and  profits  of  the  church 
without  diminution.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  26  October. 

Oct.  30.         William  Brus  of  Barton  by  York  to  Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  de 
Westminster.  Coupeland.     Recognisance  for  6Q01.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Yorkshire. 

Oct.  3L         David  Strabolgi  earl  of  Athole  to  William  de  Haulay  sheriff  of 
Westminster.  Lincoln.     Recognisance  for  60/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Lincolnshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


38  EDWARD   fTI. 


81 


1304. 


Membrane  9d — cont. 


I 


Iixdcnturo  made  between  Sir  David  do  Strabolgi  earl  of  Athels  and 
William  Hauloy  sliorifT  of  Lincoln,  being  a  d(>feasance  of  the  foregoing 
recognisance,  upon  condition  that  Sir  David  shall  pay  10/.  at  Easter 
next  at  Lincoln  in  the  minster  of  Our  Lady,  \0l.  at  Michaelmas 
following,  and  10/.  at  Easter  following.  Dated  London,  Monday 
after  All  Saints  38  Edward   III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  5  November. 

Oct.  31.         William  de  Haulay  sherifT  of  Lincoln    to  Walter    de    Cakchowe. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  60/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  Lincolnshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Indenture  made  between  William  Haulay  sheriff  of  Lincoln  and 
Walter  de  Cakehowe,  being  a  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance, 
upon  condition  that  the  said  William  shall  pay  to  the  said  Walter 
10/.  within  a  quinzaine  after  Christmas  next  at  Lincoln  in  the 
minster  of  Our  Lady,  10/.  within  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next, 
and  10/.  witliin  a  quinzaine  after  Easter  following.  Dated  London, 
Monday  after  All  Saints  38  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  5  November. 

Writing  of  Walter  de  Cakehowe,  being  a  quitclaim  to  David  de 
Strabolgi  earl  of  Athole  of  all  action  concerning  30/.  by  him  recovered 
against  the  said  earl  upon  divers  writs  of  novel  disseisin  in  Lincolnshire 
before  Thomas  de  Ingelby  and  Illardus  de  Usfiet  the  king's  justices. 
Dated  London,  Wednesday  before  All  Saints  38  Edward  III 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  November. 

Writing  of  John  de  Cherleton  of  Appeleye  knight,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Henry  Percehay  and  Isabel  his  wife,  the  heirs  and 
assigns  of  the  said  Henry,  of  all  the  lands,  reversions,  rents  and  services 
of  Overe  Mollond,  Nether  Mollond,  Sarazyn  and  Flitton  co.  Devon. 
Witnesses  :  William  de  Brightelegh,  William  Luscote,  Thomas  More, 
Richard  Bere.  Dated  Thursday  after  St.  Simon  and  St.  Jude 
35  Edward  III. 

Memorandum   of   acknowledgment,   4  November  this  year. 

Writing  of  John  de  Littelbyrs,  being  a  bond  to  Sir  Thomas  de  Lucy 
knight  in  100/.  payable  at  Multon  in  Holand  at  the  Purification  next. 
Dated  Multon,  7  November  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  9  November. 

Nov.  26.         Richard  de  Hoton  of  Aton  to  W^illiam  de  Nessefeld  of    Scotton. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  74/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  Yorkshire. 


Membrane  8d. 

ft 

Writing  of  Robert  Gy  of  Wixbrugge,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  William  Schirforde,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a  piece  of  land  and 
meadow  in  W^estminster  with  houses  thereon  built  between  the 
messuage  of  W^alter  de  Stodieye  and  a  tenement  sometime  of  John  de 
Henden   extending   from   the   high   way   leading   from   Westminster 

E  6 


82 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364. 


Nov.  5. 

Westminster. 

Nov.  7. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  8. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  Sd — cont. 

towards  Charryngcrouch  to  a  meadow  sometime  of  John  de  Stonore. 
Witnesses  :  Richard  Rok  the  elder,  Richard  Rok  the  younger,  Robert  de 
Hakeborne,  Peter  Bocher,  Roger  de  Sudbury.  Dated  Westminster, 
Sunday  after  All  Saints  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum   of   acknowledgment,    4   November. 

Richard  de  Ask  to  Johij  atte  Halle.  Recognisance  for  40L,  to  be 
levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Yorkshire. 

Thomas  atte  Castell  of  Westsmethefeld  citizen  of  London  to 
Thomas  de  Irlond  citizen  and  skinner  of  London.  Recognisance 
for  SOL,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  the  said  city. 


John   de   Littelbyrs   to   Thomas   de   Lucy   knight, 
for  lOOL,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Lincolnshire. 


Recognisance 


Writing  of  John  del  Isle  of  Wodeton  knight,  being  an  acquittance 
to  John  de  Cobeham  lord  of  Cobeham  knight  for  800  marks  received, 
with  defeasance  of  a  recognisance  for  1,000  marks,  and  of  a  rent  of 
lOOl.  to  be  taken  of  the  manors  of  Chissebury,  Henton  and  Beneknoll 
CO.  Wilts  to  him  granted  by  the  said  John  de  Cobeham  as  security  for 
payment  of  the  said  sum,  and  release  of  all  personal  actions.  Dated 
Southwerk,  the  church  of  Our  Lady  called  Overre,  Friday  the  feast 
of  All  Saints  38  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  November. 

Writing  of  William  Cotegrave  citizen  of  London,  giving  with 
warranty  to  John  Payn  citizen  of  London  for  life  a  yearly  rent  of 
4:1.  to  be  taken  at  four  terms  of  the  year  by  even  portions  of  his 
tenement  in  the  parish  of  St.  Augustine  Watlyngestrete  London,  situate 
between  tenements  of  Henry  de  Guldeford  on  the  west  and  Andrew  de 
Cornewaille  on  the  east,  with  power  of  distraint  if  the  same  be  in  arrear, 
and  William  has  this  day  paid  Id.  in  name  of  seisin,  Adam  de  Bury  being 
mayor  of  London,  Simon  de  Mordon  and  John  de  Mitford  sheriffs. 
Witnesses  :  John  de  Kirkeby,  William  Passeware,  Andrew  de 
Cornubia,  Simon  de  Godestowe,  John  Ittlycote.  Dated  London, 
10  November  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  11  November. 


Writing  indented  of  William  de  Sepvantz,  granting  to  William  de 
Boudon  chaplain,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the  manor  of  Wyghebergh  co. 
Essex  without  any  rent  until  St.  Bartholomew  next  and  thenceforward 
for  two  years,  and  after  that  term  rendering  to  the  grantor  and  his  heirs 
200/.  every  year  at  the  Beheading  of  St.  John  Baptist,  power  being 
reserved  to  enter  again  if  the  rent  be  in  arrear  so  that  such  entry  be 
in  discharge  of  all  arrears  ;  William  de  Boudon,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
shall  acquit  and  defend  the  premises  during  the  said  term  of  all  services, 
rents  and  demands  towards  the  lords  of  the  fee  and  all  others 
whatsoever,  shall  maintain  all  houses  and  walls  thereof  in  roofing, 
enclosures  and  other  repairs,  and  shall  fell  no  trees  upon  the  lands 
thereof  but  for  repair  of  the  said  houses  if  need  be  and  for  fuel 
thereupon.  Dated  Wyghebergh,  the  morrow  of  Michaelmas 
38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  11  November. 


38  EDWARD  III. 


83 


1304. 


Membrane  8rf — cont. 


Writing  of  John  de  Clicrleton  of  Appclcye  knight,  giving  with 
warranty  to  Sir  Thomas  do  Bcllo  Campo  earl  of  Warrewyk  and 
Sir  Richard  do  Piryton  clerk  during  the  grantor's  Hfe  20Z.  of  yearly 
rent  which  Sir  John  dc  Trillowe  knight  is  bound  to  render  for  seven 
eighths  of  the  manor  of  Melcote  co.  Wairewyk  which  he  holds  of  the  said 
John  de  Cheilcton,  together  with  the  reversion  of  the  premises  after 
the  term  previously  granted  to  Sir  John  de  Trillowe,  the  reversion  of 
the  eighth  part  of  the  said  manor  which  is  in  Gloucestershire  after  the 
term  granted  to  John  le  Rous,  and  the  riglit  of  entry  for  default  of 
payment  of  the  rent  or  for  any  other  contravention  of  the  demise 
made  to  the  said  John  Trillowe  and  John  le  Rous.  Dated  Westminster, 
8  November  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  8  November. 


Nov.  27. 
Westminster. 


Richard  de  Hoton  of  Aton  to  Richard  de  Ravensere  clerk. 
Recognisance  for  1(5/.  18s.  M.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Yorkshire. 


Membrane  Id. 

Writing  of  Thomas  son  of  Henry  del  Stokkes  of  Wakef  eld,  being  a  quit- 
claim with  warranty  to  Thomas  de  Hasilden  of  the  same,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  of  a  tenement  with  garden  and  croft  adjoining  in  the  town 
of  W^akefeld  in  a  street  called  '  le  Northgate  '  between  tenements 
sometime  of  Thomas  Seele  on  the  north  and  of  the  grantor  on  the 
south,  which  tenement  the  said  Thomas  de  Hasilden  lately  had  for 
life  of  the  grant  of  the  said  Thomas  son  of  Henry.  Witnesses  :  William 
de  Fyncheden,  John  de  W^addesworth,  John  de  Dronsfeld,  William  de 
Gayrgrave,  Hugh  de  Wombewell,  John  de  Bretton,  William  de 
Castelford.  Dated  Wakefeld,  Friday  after  St.  Martin  in  winter 
38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  16  November. 

Writing  of  John  de  Rydyngherssh,  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Rydyng- 
herssh,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Sir  Thomas  de  Uvedale 
knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  lands  in  Chelsham  and  Tycheseye 
which  Sir  Thomas  has  for  life  by  demise  of  the  said  John  the  father. 
Dated  Westminster,  Saturday  after  St.  Matthew  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  16  November. 


Nov.  16. 
Westminster. 


Nov.   19. 

Westminster. 


Robert  earl  of  Stafford  to  the  king.  Recognisance  for  80Z.,  to  be 
levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Staffordshire. 

Estreat  sent  to  the  exchequer. 


Richard   Brennand   to   John   atte   Halle, 
to  be  levied  etc.  in  Yorkshire. 


Recognisance   for   40^, 


Robert  de  Tughale  to  David  de  Wollore,  Thomas  de  Neuby  and 
Michael  de  Ravendale  clerks.  Recognisance  for  20/.,  to  be  levied  etc. 
in  Northumberland. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Robert 
pay  lOZ.  on  Whitsunday  next. 

Cancelled  on  'payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Michael. 


84 


CALENDi^R  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364. 

Nov.  20, 
Westrninstor. 


Nov.  20. 

Westminster. 


Nov,   2L 
Westminster. 


Nov.  28. 

Westminster. 


Membram  Id — cont. 

Brother  John  abbot  of  Wliallay,  for  himself  and  the  convent,  to 
David  de  Wollore  and  Thomas  de  Neuby  clerks.  Recognisance  for 
40  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  their  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical 
goods  in  Lancashire. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  abbot 
pay  20  marks    in  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  next. 

Cancelled  on  'payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  David. 

William  de  Hull  clerk  to  Richard  de  Ravensere  clerk.  Recognisance 
for  20/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and  chattels   in  Worcestershire. 

Writing  of  John  Payn  citizen  of  London,  being  a  quitclaim  to  William 
de  Cotegrave  citizen  of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a  tenement 
in  the  parish  of  St.  Augustine  by  the  door  of  St.  Paul's  church  London 
situate  between  tenements  of  Henry  de  Guldeford  on  the  west  and  of 
Andrew  de  Corncwaille  on  the  east,  and  of  a  yearly  rent  of  4:1.  to  be 
thereof  taken  for  the  life  of  the  said  John  to  him  granted  by  a  writing 
of  the  said  William  [above,  p.  82).  Witnesses  :  Richard  de  Gillyng, 
William  Passeware,  Andrew  Cornewaille,  John  de  Kirkeby,  Hugh 
Walssh.     Dated  London,   19  November  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   20  November. 

Hugh  de  Berewyk  knight  and  John  de  Baldyndon  to  John  de 
Repynghale.  Recognisance  for  lOZ.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Oxfordshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

Thomas  de  la  More  and  John  Laundels  to  John  de  Repynghale. 
Recognisance  for  101.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Oxfordshire. 

John  de  Repynghale  to  Richard  de  Ravensere  clerk.     Recognisance 
for  9/.  9.S.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Lincolnshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  Thomas  son  and  heir  of  William  de  Recolvre  of  Kent, 
being  a  quitclaim  to  Master  Robert  de  Bourne  parson  of  Frakenham 
and  Robert  Vyntier  of  Maydenstan  of  the  manor  of  Shoforde  by 
Maydenstan  co.  Kent.  Dated  London,  Sunday  before  St.  Katherine 
38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  25  November. 

To  the  constable  of  Bristol  castle  or  his  lieutenant.  Order,  for 
sure  causes,  to  receive  from  the  bearer  by  indenture  John  Heroun 
knight  for  safe  custody  in  the  king's  prison  within  the  said  castle 
until  further  order,  as  he  would  answer  to  the  king  in  person,  body 
for  body,  under  pain  of  forfeiture  of  life  and  limb. 

By  letter  of  the  secret  seal. 

The  like  writs  to  the  following,  for  safe  custody  of  the  prisoners 
named  : 

To  the  constable  of  Old  Sarum  castle  or  his  lieutenant,  concerning 

William  de  Lilleburn  knight. 
To  the  constable  of  Winchester  castle  or  his  lieutenant,  concerning 
William  Heroun  knight. 


1 


38  KDVVAKD  III. 


85 


1304. 


Membrane  Id—cont. 


To  the  constable  of  Oxford  castle  or  his  lieutenant,  concerning 

John  Hcroun  '  osquior.' 
To  the  constahh;  of  CJIoucestcr  castle  or  his  lieutenant,  concerning 

Roger  Heroun  knight. 
To  the  constable   of  Corf  castle   or   his   lieutenant,    concerning 

Nicholas  do  Raymes. 

Membrane  H. 

Nov.  27.         John  Wardedicu  of  Syvvell  to  Roger  ])alyngregge.     Recognisance 
Westniinstor.  for  1,000/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 


in  Sussex. 

Roger  Dalyngregge  to  John  Wardedieu. 
to  be  levied  etc.  in  Sussex. 


Recognisance  for  1,000?., 


I 
\ 


Nov.  27.         John  de  Mallyng  of  Walton,  William  de  Castelford  of  Wakefeld, 
Westniinstor.   William  do  Houden  of  Clokton  and  William  de  Walton  to  Queen 
Phihppa.     Joint  and  seveial   recognisance   for  34Z.  19s.,  to  be  levied 
etc.  in  Essex. 

Cancelled  on  'payment,  acknowledged  by  Richard  de  Raveneser  the 
said  queen'' s  attorney. 

Nov.  29.         William  Tank  to  John  Salter  son  of  Richard  Salter  of  Horsham. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  10  marks  payable  in  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  next ; 
to    be    levied    etc.    in    Sussex. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

The  said  William  to  the  said  John.     Recognisance  for  10  marks 
payable  in  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next;    to  be  levied  etc.  in  Sussex. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Alan  de  Carlel  goldsmith  of  Loudon  to  John  Payn  armourer  of 
London.  Recognisance  for  100/.,  to  be  k^vied  etc.  in  the  city  of 
London. 


Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon  condition 
Ihat  John  Payn,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  shall  peaceably  hold  for  a  term 
of  eleven  years  from  Christmas  next  all  the  lands,  rents  and  service? 
in  the  parish  of  St.  Andrew  at  Castle  Baynard  London  which  he  has 
of  the  demise  of  Adam  de  Carlel,  and  the  said  Adam  had  of  the  demise 
of  Alan  de  Carlel  goldsmith  and  Agnes  his  wife  ;  and  if  the  said 
Alan  shall  alien  or  charge  the  premises  within  the  said  term,  the 
lecognisance  shall  remain  in  force.  Dated  London,  2  December 
38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,   3  December. 

Writing  indented  of  Adam  de  Carlel '  taillour,'  granting  and  demising 
with  warranty  to  John  Payn  armourer  of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
for  a  term  of  eleven  years  from  Christmas  next,  all  the  lands,  rents 
and  services  in  the  parish  of  St.  Andrew  at  Castle  Baynard  London 
which  descended  by  inheritance  to  Agnes  wife  of  Alan  de  Carlel  citizen 
and  goldsmith  of  London  after  the  decease  of  John  de  Hales 
'  wodemougere  '   her  father,   as  fully   as   the  said  Adam  had  them 


86 


CAI.EKDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364.  Membrane  6d — cont. 

by  virtue  of  a  demise  of  the  said  Alan  and  Agnes  for  twelve  years  from 
Christmas  37  Edward  III.  Dated  London,  29  November 
38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   3  December. 

Dec.  2.  Robert  de  Duxfeld  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne  to  David  de  Wollore 

Westminster,  and  Thomas  de  Neuby  clerks.     Recognisance  for  801.,  to  be  levied, 

in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Northumberland. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Robert 

pay  40?.  on  the  feast  of  St.  Andrew  next. 

Cancelled    on    'payment,    acknowledged    by    the    said    David. 

Nov.  30.         Thomas    de    la    Dale    knight    to    Richard    de    Ravenser    clerk. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  50  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Bedfordshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Charter  of  Richard  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  de  Whelton,  giving  with 
warranty  to  Richard  Gregory  the  elder,  John  Belewe  chaplain  and 
Richard  Ambresdon  chaplain,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  his  lands 
sometime  of  Thomas  his  father  in  Bekenesfeld,  Burnham,  Chalfhunte 
St.  Giles  and  Chalfhunte  St.  Peter.  Witnesses  :  William  Donynton, 
John  atte  Glorie,  Nicholas  Donynton,  Thomas  Fraunkeleyn,  John  le 
Irmongere,  John  Sparwe,  William  Derneden.  Dated  Bekenesfeld, 
Saturday  the  feast'  of  St.  Andrew  38  Edward  III. 

Letter  of  Richard  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  de  Whelton,  granting  to 
Richard  Gregory  the  elder,  John  Belewe  chaplain  and  Richard 
Ambresdon  chaplain  a  yearly  rent  of  100s.  to  be  taken  at  Michaelmas 
of  all  his  lands  in  Sussex,  with  power  to  levy  the  same  by  distraint 
if  need  be,  delivering  to  them  Id.  in  name  of  seisin.  Dated  London, 
the  feast  of  St.  Andrew  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
letter,  1  December. 

Writing  of  Henry  de  Shankton  parson  of  Haddestoke,  being  a  release 
to  Robert  de  Corby  of  all  actions  and  demands  in  the  lands  and  rents 
which  were  of  John  de  Brigeham  in  Westwrottyng  and  Swafham 
Priour.     Dated  London,  2  December  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   3  December. 

Dec.  3.  John  de  Boys  knight  to  Nicholas  de  Roos  clerk,  warden  of  the  King's 

Westminster.  Hall  Cantebrigge.  Recognisance  for  106?.  payable  by  instalments  ; 
to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Lincolnshire. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  John  pay 
20  marks  at  each  of  the  terms  named  in  this  recognisance. 

Dec.  4.  Peter  de  Salford  to  Richard  la  Vache  knight.     Recognisance  for 

Westminster.   72?.,   to  be  levied  etc.   in  Bedfordshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  Robert  de  Aldebury  attorney 
general  of  the  said  Richard. 

Membrane  5d. 

Writing  of  Robert  Wright  of  Wakefeld,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  Peter  de  Routhe,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a  tenement  in 


38  EDWARD  III.  87 


1304.  Membrane  bd — cont. 

Wakcfcld  in  a  street  called  '  Ic  Kergate  '  between  tenements  of  John 
Harville  and  of  Williani  Wright,  and  all  other  his  lands  and  tenements 
in  the  said  town.  Witnesses  :  VV^illiam  de  Fyncheden,  John  do 
Wadesworlh,  William  de  Castelford,  William  de  Walton.  Dated 
London,  Monday  after  St.  Andrew  38  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   4  December. 

Nov.  24.  To  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Newehous.  Request  to  admit  John  de 
Langley.  Ebor[aco]*  the  king's  yeoman  to  their  house,  and  minister  to  him  such 
maintenance  in  nieat,  raiment  etc.  as  Robert  Paynlowe  deceased  had 
there  at  the  late  king's  command,  causing  letters  under  their  seal 
to  be  made  and  delivered  to  him  with  mention  of  all  that  he  shall 
receive  thereof,  for  which  the  king  will  be  bound  to  them,  and 
certifying  the  king  by  the  bearer  of  what  they  will  do  at  this  request ; 
as  by  reason  of  his  service  the  king  would  make  provision  for  the 
said  John,  for  whom  none  is  yet  made.  By  p.s.  [26455.] 

Writing  of  Richard  de  Cranebrok  of  Kent,  giving  to  Richard  de 
Schamelesford  clerk  and  Roger  Digge,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly 
rent  of  10^.  to  be  taken  of  all  his  lands  in  the  town  of  Newynton 
CO.  Kent  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  with  power  of 
distraint  if  the  same  shall  be  in  arrear,  and  putting  them  in  seisin  thereof 
by  M.  Dated  the  chuich  of  Paul  London,  Tuesday  after  St.  Andrew 
38  Ed\\'ard  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  December. 

Writing  of  Richard  de  Schamelesford  clerk  and  Roger  Digge,  being 
a  defeasance  of  the  rent  to  them  granted  by  the  foregoing  writing, 
upon  condition  that  Richard  de  Cranebrok  or  some  other  in  [his] 
name  shall  pay  80  marks  to  them  or  one  of  them  in  the  priory  church 
of  St.  Bartholomew  Smethefeld  London  on  the  feast  of  St.  Philip  and 
St.  James  next.  Dated  the  church  of  St.  Paul  London,  Wednesday 
after  St.  Andrew  38  Ed^^'ard  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   5  December. 

Writing  of  William  son  of  John  son  of  Peter  de  Hadclif  co.  Lincoln 
being  a  gift  and  quitclaim  to  Master  Geoffrey  Salyng  clerk,  Richard 
Salyng,  John  Hullewode  and  Isabel  Hullewode,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of 
all  lands,  tenements,  cottages  [or  socages),  rents  and  services  which  were 
of  John  son  of  Peter  his  father  in  the  towns  and  territories  of  Hadclif, 
Westravendale  and  Gonerby,  and  of  William  de  Grisseby  in  the  town 
of  Croxby,  and  came  to  him  after  the  decease  of  the  said  John  and 
William,  and  ought  to  come  to  him  by  inheritance  or  otherwise  after 
the  decease  of  Mariot  his  mother  relict  of  the  said  John,  with  warranty 
of  the  premises,  and  of  the  reversion  of  those  noM  held  for  life  in  Hadclif 
by  the  said  Mariot.  Witnesses  :  Nicholas  Hadclif,  Alan  Hadclif, 
Peter  Bretoun,  John  Croun  of  Belisby,  Richard  Gros  of  Gonerby, 
Thomas  Belle  of  Croxby,  John  Smeth  of  Westravendale.  Dated 
Hadclif,  St.  Andrew's  day  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,    12  December. 

Charter  of  William  son  of  John  son  of  Peter  de  Hattcclif  co.  Lincoln, 
giving  with  wairanty  to  Master  Geoffrey  Salyng  clerk,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  all  his  lands,  tenements,  cotteges,  rents  and  services,  with 

*  In  the  warrant  John  de  Everwyk. 


88  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364.  Membrane  5r7 — cont. 

houses,  gardens,  mill,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  reliefs,  heriots, 
hays,  ditches,  ways,  paths  etc.  in  the  towns  and  territories  of  Hatteclif, 
Westravendale,  Gonerby,  Croxby,  Clixby,  Grisseby,  Honeby,  Seuerby 
and  Kelsay,  with  the  reversion  of  the  lands  etc.  which  Mariot  his  mother, 
relict  of  John  son  of  Peter,  holds  for  life  in  name  of  dower  in  Hatteclif 
and  Westravendale.  Witnesses  :  William  de  Belisby  knight,  Peter 
Bretoun,  Nicholas  Hatteclif,  Alan  Hatteclif,  John  Smeth  of 
Westravendale,  William  Warde,  Richard  Gros  of  Gonerby,  Thomas 
Belle  of  Croxby,  John  Warde  of  Clixby.  Dated  Hatteclif,  Monday 
before  St.  Denis  37  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   12  December  this  year. 

Dec.  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk.  Order,  upon  a  petition  made  on  behalf 
Westminster,  of  John  Gamen,  to  cause  him  to  be  set  free  from  the  king's  prison  of  the 
city  of  Norwich,  and  not  to  trouble  him  in  the  mean  time  touching  his 
withdrawal  from  the  service  of  Peter  de  Buro.pstede  contrary  to  the 
ordinance  before  the  term  agreed  between  them,  bringing  this  writ 
before  the  justices  at  Westminster  in  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary  next ; 
as  lately  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  attach  the  said  John  so  as 
to  have  him  on  that  day  before  the  justices  to  answer  as  well  the 
king  as  the  said  Peter  on  that  matter,  by  colour  whereof  he  was  taken 
and  is  imprisoned  as  the  king  has  learned  ;  and  now  the  said  petition 
shews  that  he  is  ready  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things,  and  John  Erlam 
of  the  said  county,  Richard  Brighous  of  Yorkshire,  Richard  Merston 
and  Richard  Sadeler  of  London,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  40l.  to  have  him  before  the  justices 
in  the  octaves  aforesaid. 

Membrane  4rf. 

May  10.  To   the  sheriff  of  Essex  and  Hertford.     Order,  upon  sight  of  these 

Westminster,  presents,  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  that  no  stranger  nor  privy 
person  shall  under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof  expose  cloths  for  sale 
before  the  subsidy  thereupon  due  be  paid,  and  the  cloths  be  sealed  with 
the  seal  appointed  for  the  purpose,  that  no  drapers  or  clothmakers 
shall  deliver  any  cloths  from  their  keeping  until  so  sealed,  nor  suffer 
any  to  pass  out  of  their  hands,  and  that  all  mayors,  bailifis,  ministers 
of  the  king  and  others,  within  liberties  and  without,  shall  under  pain  of 
forfeiture  be  aiding  to  Henry  Godchepe  and  John  Double  of  London, 
farmers  of  the  subsidy  of  cloth  for  sale  lately  granted  to  the  king  for 
remission  of  the  forfeiture  of  the  alnage  of  cloth  to  him  pertaining, 
and  to  their  deputies  in  all  things  that  pertain  to  them  ;  also  to  receive 
of  the  said  Henry  and  John  and  of  their  deputies  by  indenture, 
containing  the  quantity  and  true  value  thereof,  the  description  and  the 
owners'  names,  all  cloths  which  they  shall  take  as  forfeit  into  the  king's 
hand  and  deliver  to  him,  delivering  one  moiety  thereof  to  them 
according  to  the  covenants  in  their  lease,  and  safe  keeping  the  other 
moiety  until  further  order  ;  as  for  a  set  rent  the  king  by  indenture  has 
demised  the  said  subsidy  in  those  counties  to  the  said  Henry  and  John  to 
farm  from  5  May  last  for  two  years  by  certain  covenants,  together 
with  a  moiety  of  the  cloths  which  shall  be  forfeited,  and  now  on  their 
behalf  he  is  informed  that  great  number  of  merchants  and  others 
have  and  do  cause  their  cloths  to  be  sealed  with  false  seals  and 
counterfeit,  and  not  with  the  seal  appointed  for  the  purpose  ;  and 
because  in  the  grant  of  the  subsidy  it  is  contained  that  all  cloths  exposed 


I 


38  EDWARD  III. 


89 


1364.  Membrane  4d — cont. 

for  sale  before  being  sealed  with  the  collectors'  seal  nhall  be  forfeit 
to  the  king,  the  king's  will  is  that  all  clotlis  scaled  with  the  collectors' 
true  seals  shall  be  held  for  cloths  well  and  lawfully  customed  and  scaled, 
and  that  nothing  henceforth  shall  be  of  them  demanded  nor  paid  for 
such  subsidy,  and  all  other  sealed  with  false  seals  and  counterfeit 
shall  bo  forfeited,  taken  by  the  collectors  into  the  king's  hand,  and 
delivered  to  the  sheriff  of  the  county  where  such  forfeiture  shall  take 
place. 

The  like  writs  to  the  following  : 
Oct.  3.  To  the  sheriff  of  Warrevvyk  and  Leycestre,  the  sheriff  of  Salop, 

Westminster.  the    sheriff   of   Stafford,   for   John    Ray    farmer   of    the    said 

subsidy  in  those  counties  from  Michaelmas  last  for  two  years, 
with  the  third  part  of  the  forfeitures. 
To  the  sheriff  of  Hereford,  for  John  Chirbury  farmer  of  the  subsidy 
in  that  county  from  Michaelmas  last  for  two  years,  with  the 
third  part  of  the  forfeitures. 
To  the  sheriff  of  Kent,  for  Henry  Colas  of  Gildeford  taverner, 
farmer  of  the  subsidy  from  Michaelmas  last  for  three  years, 
with  the  third  part  of  the  forfeitures. 

Membrane  3<I. 

Dec.  4.  To  S.   archbishop  of  Canterbury.     Summons  to  a  parliament  at 

Westminster.  Westminster  to  be  holden  in  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary  next,  warning  the 

prior   and   chapter   of   Christ   Church   Canterbury,    the   archdeacons 

and  clergy  of  the  diocese  to  attend,  the  said  prior  and  archdeacons 

in  person,  the  chapter  by  one  proctor,  the  clergy  by  two. 

By  K.  and  C. 

Dec.  4.  The  like  summons  to  John  archbishop  of  York,  Thomas  bishop  of 

Westminster.  Durliam  and  fifteen  other  bishops  (eleven  of  them  by  name)  ;    and 

to  the  vicar  general  of  the  bishop  of  Cicestre  who  is  at  a  distance, 

and  the  keeper  of  the  bishopric  of  Rochester  in  the  vacancy  of  the 

see,  to  warn  etc. 

^Reports  on  the  Dignity  of  a  Peer,  iv.  "p.  636.] 

To  the  abbot  of  Glastonbury.     Summons  to  the  said  parliament. 

The  like  to  the  abbot  of  St.  Augustine  Canterbury  and  21  other 
abbots,  the  prior  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  and  the  priors 
•of  Lewes  and  Coventre. 

{Ibid.  p.  637.] 

To  John  duke  of  Lancastre  the  king's  son.  Snmmons  to  the  said 
parliament.  By  K. 

The  like  to  Edmund  earl  of  Cambridge  and  eight  oth^  earls,  Henry  de 
Percy  and  40  others. 

[Ibid.] 


To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Ordea"  to  cause  two  knights  of  the  shire, 
two  citizens  of  every  city,  and  two  burgesses  of  every  borough  thereof 
to  be  elected  and  attead  the  said  parhament. 

The  like  to  singular  the  sheriffs  of  England. 

[Ibid.  p.  638.] 


90  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1364-  Membrane  Sd — cont. 

To  Ralph  Spigurnel  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of  the 
Cinque  Ports,  or  to  his  lieutenant.  Order  to  cause  two  barons  of 
every  port  to  be  elected  and  attend  the  said  parliament. 

[Reports  on  the  Dignity  of  a  Peer,  iv.  p.  638.] 

To  Henry  Grene.     Order  to  attend  the  said  parliament. 
The  like  to  Robert  de  Thorpe  and  four  others. 
[Ibid.] 

Membrane  2d. 

Dec.  12.         To  the  bailiffs  of  Heth.     Whereas  for  many  causes  affecting  the 

Westminster,  rights  of  the  crown,  the  estate  and  governance  of  the  realm,  it  is  ordered 

and  agreed,  with  the  assent  of  the  lords  and  others  of  the  council, 

that  no  man  of  whatsoever  condition  shall  without  the  king's  special 

licence  pass  the  sea  out  of  the  realm,  that  search  shall  be  made  of  all 

so  passing  out  that  they  carry  no  money,  gold,  silver,  jewels  nor  letters 

of  exchange,  that  if  any  such  goods  or  letters  be  found  on  any  passing 

by  sea,  an  arm  of  the  sea,  a  water  flowing  to  the  sea,  or  on  the  sea  coast, 

they  shall  be  arrested  and  sent  before  the  king  and  council,  merchants 

only  excepted  who  are  known    for    merchants    passing    for    traffic, 

and  these  shall  give  security  before  the  mayor,  bailiffs  or  wardens  of 

the  ports  and  places  where  they  pass  not  to  employ  any  money  or 

letters  they  carry  save  in  their  traffic,  on  pain  of  forfeiture  of  what 

money  or  letters  they  carry  and  of  the  arrest  and  imprisonment  of 

any  carrying  and  concealing  the  same  at  the  king's  will,  that  search 

shall  be  made  in  all  ports  within  the  king's  power  on  either  side  the 

sea  that  no  person  of  whatsoever  condition  coming  from  the  court  of 

Rome  to  England  or  elsewhere  beyond  the  sea  bring  letter  patent, 

bull,  instrument,  process  or  aught  else  which  may  be  to  the  prejudice 

of  the  king  or  any  of  his  subjects,  and  none  passing  out  of  the  realm 

to  the  court  of    Rome    or    elsewhere    over    sea    carry  letter  patent, 

instrument,  process  or  aught  else  which  may  turn  to  the  like  prejudice, 

and  in  case  any  shall  pass  out  by  the  king's  licence,  he  shall  make  oath 

and  give  security  before  the  king  in  chancery  not  to  make,  sue  nor 

procure  any  suit  or  impeachment  of  matters  which  may  turn  to  the 

prejudice  of  the  king,  the  laws,  or  of  his  subjects,  on  pain  of  being  put 

out  of  the  king's  protection  and  of  forfeiture  of  life  and  goods,  according 

to  the  statute  made  in  the  27th  year  of  the  reign  :     order  to  cause 

proclamation  to   be  made  of  these   ordinances   in  cities,   boroughs, 

market  towns,  seaports  and  other  places,  within  liberties  and  without, 

and  to  cause  them  to  be  observed,  so  that  by  default  or  negligence 

of  the  said  bailiffs  no  hurt  or  prejudice  be  brought  upon  the  king, 

the  crown  nor  upon  the  realm  whereby  he  should  have   matter   of 

wrath  against  them,  and  to  arrest  and  imprison  any  found  after  such 

proclamation  passing   over  sea  without  the  king's  special  licence,  so 

that  they  shall  not  be  set  free  without  his  special  command,  charging 

the  said  bailiffs  by  their  allegiance,  because  he  has  the  business  a 

heart,  to  cause  good  and  lawful  watchers  and  searchers  to  be  set  and 

deputed  in   all  places  within  their  bailiwick  where  passage  may  be 

made,   that    none    cross   nor    act    contrary    to   the  said   ordinance. 

French.  By  K,  and  C. 

The  like  writs  to  all  the  sheriffs  of  England. 

The  like  to  the  mayors  and  bailiffs  of  the  following  towns  and  ports  : 
The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Cicestre. 


I 


38  KDVVAlll)  III. 


13G4.  Membrane  2d — cont. 

The  mayor  and  bailifTs  of   Portesmutli. 

The  mayor  and  bailifTs  of  Suthampton. 

The  bailiffs  of  Melcoiube. 

The  bailiffs  of  VVeymuth. 

The  bailiffs  of  la  Pole. 

Tlie  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Exce.stre.  * 

The  bailiffs  of  Toppesham. 

The  bailiffs  of  Dertemuth. 

The  bailiffs  of  Plummuth. 

The  bailiffs  of  Bcrncstaple. 

The  bailiffs  of  Exemuth. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Bristol. 

The  bailiffs  of  Bruggcwatre. 

The  bailiffs  of  Lyverpole. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Mergate. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Orford. 

The  mayor  and  bailiff's  of  the  town  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne. 

The  bailiffs  of  Hertelpole. 

The  bailiffs  of  Whiteby. 

The  bailiffs  of  Scardeburgh, 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Everwyk. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Barton. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Grymesby. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  St.  Botholf. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Lenne. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Great  Jernemuth. 

The  baihffs  of  the  town  of  Little  Jernemuth. 

The  bailiffs   of  the  town  of  Donewyz. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Blakeney. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Yeppewiz. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Herewich. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Colchestre. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Maldon. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Sandewych. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Dovorre. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Rye. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Wynchelse. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Hastynges. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Romeneye. 

The  bailiffs  of  Pevenseye. 

The  bailiffs  of  Shorham. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Kirkeleyrode. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Faversham. 

The   bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Baudeseye. 

The  sheriffs  of  London,  mutatis  mutandis. 


1365. 


Writing  of  Thomas  son  of  Sir  John  Seintcler  knight  [militis],  being 
a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Sir  John  de  Sutton  of  Wyvenho  knight, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  Tendringge 
CO.  Essex  in  the  diocese  of  London.  Witnesses  :  Sir  John  de  Playz, 
Sir  John  de  Braham  knights,  Edmund  de  Brokesbourne,  John  Fillol, 
Roger  de  Kirketon,  John  Spyney.  Dated  Tendringge,  4  June 
36  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  23  January  this  year. 


92  CALENDAR  OP  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


J3g4.  Membrane  Id. 

Writing  of  William  de  Colonia  clerk,  giving  to  Richard  de  Croydon 
citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent 
of  201.  to  be  taken  of  all  his  tenements  and  rents  in  London,  with 
power  of  distraint  if  the  same  be  in  arrear,  and  putting  the  said  Richard 
in  seisin  thereof  bv  Qd.  Dated  London,  Wednesday  after  St.  Nicholas 
38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   13  December. 

-■ Robert  de  Fienles  constable  of  France,  who  is  abiding  beyond  the 

sea,  appoints  David  de  Wollore,  William  de  Dighton,  Walter  Power, 

Thomas  de  Brantyngham  and  William  de  Mulsho  clerks,  Michael 
Skillyng  and  Robert  de  Horneby  his  attorneys  for  one  year  in  all 
pleas  and  plaints  for  or  against  him  in  whatsoever  court  of  England. 

Charter  of  John  Aubrey,  son  and  heir  of  Andrew  Aubrey  late  citizen 
and  pepperer  of  London,  giving  with  warranty  to  Henry  Lacy  citizen 
and  pepperer  of  London,  Sir  William  de  Newerk  chaplain,  Roger  de 
Bokyngham  and  Richard  Toky,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  1\  acres  1  rood 
of  meadow  which  fell  to  him  by  inheritance  after  the  decease  of  his 
said  father  in  the  towns  of  Edelmeton,  Enefeld  and  Sywardeston 
CO.  Middlesex,  whereof  4  acres  lie  together  in  one  piece  in  Edelmeton, 
1  acre  in  Enefeld,  2\  acres  1  rood  in  the  marsh  of  Sywardeston. 
Witnesses  :  John  de  Biernes,  John  Wroth  the  younger,  Gregory 
Faueiore,  William  Pymme,  William  Saleman.  Dated  Edelmeton, 
4  December  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  December. 

Charter  of  John  Aubrey  citizen  and  pepperer  of  London,  giving 
with  warranty  to  Henry  Laci  citizen  and  pepperer  of  London, 
Sir  William  de  Newerk  chaplain,  Roger  de  Bokyngham  and  Richard 
Toky,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  3  acres  of  meadow  in  a  place  called 
Flatherwyk  in  the  parish  of  Westhamme  co.  Essex  which  he  had  of 
the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Thomas  Bret  of  Westhamme,  together  with 
I  acre  1  rood  of  meadow  in  a  meadow  called  Flatherwyk  in  the  said 
parish  which  he  had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  William  de 
Hanampstede  citizen  and  pepperer  of  London.  Witnesses  :  Adam 
Fraunceys,  Thomas  Bret,  Richard  Blake,  Richard  Bowyere,  Peter 
Pilewogh.     Dated  Westhamme,  5  December  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  December. 

Charter  of  John  Aubrey  citizen  and  pepperer  of  London  and  William 
de  Newerk  chaplain,  giving  with  warranty  to  John  de  Cokkyngge 
of  Sussex,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the  manor  of  Weston  by  Welleford 
CO.  Berks  lately  purchased  of  William  Percy  now  knight  by  fine  in  the 
king's  court  made  between  the  said  William  and  them.  Witnesses  : 
John  Not,  Peter  Vanne  and  Henry  Lacy  citizens  of  London, 
Thomas  de  la  Mare,  John  de  Isebury,  Henry  de  la  Garderobe  of 
Berkshire,     Dated  London,  Friday  the  feast  of  St.  Lucy  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,    13  December. 

Charter  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Andrew  Aubrey  sometime  citizen 
and  pepperer  of  London  and  John  Aubrey  son  and  heir  of  the  said 
Andrew,  giving  with  warranty  to  Henry  de  Frowyk  of  Middlesex, 
Henry  Lacy,  Sir  William  de  Newerk  chaplain,  Roger  de  Bokyngham 


38    EDWARD    III. 


93 


1304. 


1305. 
Jan.  22. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  Id — cont. 

and  Richard  Toky  the  younger,  their  lieirs  and  assigns,  all  the  lands 
which  t hoy  had  in  the  town  of  St.  Botolph,  lately  purchased  by  the 
said  Andrew  as  well  of  Sir  James  de  Burford  knight  as  of  John  de 
Evenefeld.  W^itncsses  :  Simon  Dolsaly,  John  Not,  Thomas  Aubrey, 
Frederick  de  Tylneye,  John  de  Kelleshull.  Dated  London,  Monday 
after  Midsummer  35  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   13  December  this  year. 

Richard  de  Stanes  and  Richard  Robyn  of  Middlesex  to  Queen 
Philippa.  Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  20/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Middlesex. 


Jan.  23.         Thomas  Sherard  of  Pudelmusterton  to  Roger  Dora.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  60/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Dorset. 

Jan.  22.  John  Talbot  of  Dyvelyn  and  John  Fraunceys  '  cordwaner  '  have 
Westminster,  found  in  chancery  Andrew  Otwy,  Simon  de  Macchyng  '  hosteler,' 
Roger  Baret  '  spicer '  and  John  Hyndale  '  brauderer '  of  London, 
who  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  40/.  that  the  said  John  Talbo 
and  John  Fraunceys  shall  bring  nor  procure  no  hurt  in  body  or  goods 
upon  Richard  Pecok  of  London  '  taillour  '  or  any  other  of  the  people. 


(94) 


39  EDWARD  III. 


1366. 

Jan.  27. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  4. 

Westminster. 

Feb.  6. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  37. 

To  the  prior  of  Farleye.  Order  to  stay  altogether  the  payment 
or  livery  of  corrodies  and  pensions  by  reason  of  bonds  thereof  made, 
until  the  king  shall  be  contented  of  the  arrears  of  the  farm  of  the 
priory  of  Farleye  for  the  time  it  was  in  the  king's  hand  among  other 
alien  priories  by  reason  of  the  last  war  with  France ;  as  lately 
learning  that  the  said  priory  during  the  time  it  was  taken  into  his  hand 
was  so  charged  with  corrodies  and  pensions  to  divers  men  by  the 
priors  thereof  for  the  time  being  after  it  was  so  taken  that,  if  the  same 
should  be  paid,  the  means  and  possessions  thereof,  after  deduction 
of  other  charges,  would  not  suffice  for  payment  of  the  farm  due  to 
the  king,  the  king  commanded  the  prior  to  stay  altogether  the  pay- 
ment or  livery  of  corrodies  or  pensions  granted  by  the  presidents 
thereof  since  the  priory  was  taken  into  the  king's  hand  ;  and  by 
certificate  of  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer,  sent  into 
chancery  by  the  king's  command,  it  is  found  that  the  arrears  of  the 
farm  yet  due  for  the  time  that  it  was  in  the  king's  hand  are 
273Z.  12s.  3(f.,  and  the  king  is  informed  that  divers  men  to  whom 
corrodies  and  pensions  were  granted  as  aforesaid,  perpending  that 
the  priory  is  out  of  the  king's  keeping,  are  suing  to  the  prior  for  the 
same  and  the  arrears  thereof  ;  and  the  king  takes  knowledge  that 
if  the  same  were  paid  while  the  king  is  not  contented  of  his  arrears, 
though  they  were  clear  and  granted  before  the  priory  was  taken  into 
his  hand,  it  would  tend  to  his  prejudice  and  to  delay  the  payment  of 
his  arrears,  especially  as  by  the  king's  prerogative  payment  of  his 
debts   must   be  preferred  to   all  others.  By  C. 

Et  erat  patens. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Somerset  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
instead  of  John  Ledrede,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

To  the  chancellor  of  Ireland.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Peter 
de  Cogan,  that  if  by  the  inquisitions  taken  by  writs  of  diem  clausit 
extremum  after  the  death  of  Walter  his  brother  and  returned  in  the 
chancery  of  Ireland,  and  by  process  thereupon  had,  it  be  found  that 
Walter  son  of  Peter  de  Cogan  held  the  manors  of  Beauver  and 
Colmore  in  chief,  that  the  said  Peter  is  his  brother  and  heir,  that  he 
has  proved  his  age,  and  that  thereupon  his  homage  was  respited  to  a 
set  time  long  past  and  livery  was  given  him  of  the  said  manors,  as 
in  the  said  petition  is  shewn,  to  take  of  the  said  Peter  security  to  come 
in  person  to  the  king  in  England  and  to  do  his  homage  before 
Christmas  next  or  on  that  day,  unless  other  command  be  given  in 
the  mean  time,  and  to  cause  the  said  manors  to  be  restored  and 
delivered  to  him,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  from  the  time 
livery  was  so  ordered,  certifying  the  king  meanwhile  in  the  chancery 
of  England  under  his  seal  used  in  Ireland  of  the  whole  process  ;  as 
the  said  petition  also  shows  that  the  said  manors  are  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  for  that  the  said  Peter  brother  of  Walter  has  not  yet 
done  his  homage,  praying  the  king  to  take  his  homage,  who  has 
come  to  the  king  in  England  for  that  purpose,  and  to  order  resti- 
tution  thereof   to   be   made  ;     and   in  consideration  of  the  toil  and 


39  EDWARD  III. 


95 


1365.  Membrane  37 — cont. 

expense  which  the  said  Peter  has  incurred  by  so  coming  from  those 
divstant  parts,  and  abiding  in  Enghxnd  until  the  king  be  certified  of 
the  process  made  touching  such  restitution,  without  which  the  king 
might  not  take  his  homage,  the  king  would  deal  generously  with 
him.  By  K.  and  C. 

Feb.  14.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull. 

Westminster.  Order  to  suffer  all  wool,  woolfells  and  hides  laded  in  ships  in  that 

port   to    be    unladed    and   landed,    and    tlie    customs    and    subsidies 

thereupon    paid    to    bo    delivered    and   paid    back,    althougli    on    31 

January  last  the  king  by  writ  ordered  tlie  collectors  from  that  day 

forward  to  sufTer  no  wool,  hides  or  woolfells  to  be  laded  in  the  said 

port  and  taken  to  foreign  parts  until  further  order  ;    as  petition  is 

made  to  the  king  on  behalf  of  several  merchants  to  give  them  licence 

to  unlade  their  wool  and  order  the  customs  and  subsidies  to  be  repaid, 

as  they  laded  no  small  quantity  in  ships  to  take  to  Calais  on  that  day 

and  after  before  they  had  knowledge  of  the  said  writ,  and  paid  the  custom 

and  subsidies  thereupon.  By  K.  and  C. 

The  like  to  the  collectors  in  the  ports  of  St.  Botolph,  Newcastle 

,       upon  Tyne,  Great  Jernemuth,  Suthampton  and  Cicestre. 

Feb.  12.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Cicestre.     Order  to  suffer 

Wostminstor.  all  wool,  woolfells  and  hides  cocketed,  customed  and  laded  in  that 
port  before  31  January  last  to  be  taken  to  Calais  without  let,  though 
on  that  day  the  king  ordered  them  to  suffer  none  from  that  day 
forward  to  be  taken  to  foreign  parts  until  further  order  ;  as  it  was 
and  is  not  the  king's  intent  that  any  so  cocketed,  customed  and  laded 
before  that  day  should  by  colour  of  the  said  writ  be  hindered. 
Proviso  that  none  be  taken  over  from  the  day  named  until  further 
order. 

The  like  to  the  collectors  in  the  ports  of  St.  Botolph,  Newcastle 
upon  Tyne,  Great  Jernemuth,  Suthampton,  Sandewic  and  the  city 
of  London. 

Feb.  28.  To  the  collectors  of  the  custom  of  wool,  hides  and  woolfells  in  the 

Westminster,  port  of  London.  Order  to  weigh  all  wool  now  ready  in  the  city  and 
port  of  London  wdthout  waiting,  according  to  the  ordinance,  for 
delivery  of  any  bill  of  the  mayor  of  the  staple  at  Westminster,  and 
upon  payment  of  the  customs  and  subsidies  thereof  due,  to  suffer 
the  same  to  be  by  aliens  taken  over  to  foreign  parts  according  to  the 
command  to  the  collectors  previously  addressed,  the  said  ordinance 
notwithstanding  ;  as  for  particular  causes  the  king's  will  is  that  all 
now  ready  shall  be  so  weighed  and  taken  over.  By  K.  and  C. 

Feb.  13.  To  the  chancellor  of  Ireland  for  the  time  being.  Order  that 
Westminster,  inquisitions  of  the  lands  in  Ireland  which  were  of  John  de  Carreu 
tenant  in  chief  be  taken  and  returned  as  usual  in  the  chancery  of 
Ireland,  and  to  cause  Leonai"d  de  Carreu,  son  and  heir  of  the  said 
John,  to  have  seisin  of  all  whereof  his  said  father  at  his  death  w^as 
seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  and  which  by  his  death  are  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  ;  as  on  13  June  last  the  age  of  the  said  Leonard 
was  proved,  and  the  king  commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  the 
lands  in  England  of  his  heritage. 

Feb.  15.         To   the   treasurer  and   the    barons   of    the  exchequer.      Order  to 

Westroinster.  cause  27s.  O^d.  which  Ralph  de  Neville  is  bound  to  pay  yearly  at  the 

exchequer  after  the  death  of  Richard  de  Denton  of  the  yearly  rent 


93 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1B65.  Membrane  37 — cont. 

of  511.  Is.  O^d.  issuing  of  the  cornage  of  Cumberland  which  the  said 
Richard  took  for  life  of  the  king's  grant,  according  to  the  grant  of 
the  reversion  of  that  rent  by  the  king  made  to  the  said  Ralph  and 
his  heirs,  to  be  deducted  from  the  date  of  the  death  of  Richard  from 
1201.  yearly  assigned  to  the  said  Ralph  de  Neville  and  his  heirs  of  the 
issues  of  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  upon 
Tyne,  causing  allowance  thereof  to  be  made  as  well  to  the  said  Ralph 
as  to  the  collectors  of  the  said  customs  and  subsidies,  and  the 
residue  of  the  said  yearly  sum  to  be  delivered  to  the  said  Ralph  from 
the  date  of  the  said  Richard's  death,  making  allowance  thereof  to 
the  said  collectors,  and  discharging  the  said  Ralph  at  the  exchequer 
of  the  sum  first  named ;  as  on  16  July  in  the  26th  year  of 
his  reign,  in  exchange  for  the  castle  and  manor  of  Ermytage 
in  Scotland,  then  extended  at  the  yearly  value  of  120^.,  and  given 
to  the  king  and  his  heirs  by  the  said  Ralph  in  exchange  for  1201.  a  year 
of  land  and  rent  to  be  by  the  king  given  to  him  and  his  heirs,  the  king 
granted  him  the  reversion  of  90^.  16s.  Sd.  of  the  farm  of  the  town  of 
Newcastle  upon  Tyne  yearly  taken  by  John  Darcy  deceased  and 
his  heirs  during  the  life  of  Mary  countess  of  Pembroke  of  the  king's 
grant  with  reversion  after  her  death  to  the  king  and  his  heirs,  and 
also  the  27s.  Old.  aforesaid  to  him  and  his  heirs  in  part  of  the  said 
yearly  sum,  further  granting  to  the  said  Ralph  that  he  and  his  heirs 
should  have  every  year  1201.  of  the  issues  of  the  said  customs  and 
subsidies,  namely  90Z.  16-s.  Sd.  [thereof  until  the  yearly  sum]  which 
John  Darcy  took  as  aforesaid  should  by  the  death  of  the  said  countess 
or  otherwise  come  to  his  hands,  275.  Ohd.  until  that  sum  of  the  said 
cornage  should  by  the  death  of  the  said  Richard  or  otherwise  come 
to  his  hands,  and  the  remaining  211.  16s.  S^d.  until  provision  should 
be  made  by  the  king  or  his  heirs  to  the  said  Ralph  and  his  heirs  of 
that  yearly  sum  in  land  and  rent  to  the  exchange  aforesaid  ;  and 
the  said  27s.  O^d.  is  come  to  the  hands  of  the  said  Ralph  by  the  death 
of  the  said  Richard,  who  died  on  Wednesday  after  Palm  Sunday  in 
the  37th  year  of  the  reign. 

Membrane  36. 

Feb.  13.         To    the   chancellor    of   Ireland    for   the    time    being.     Order   that 

Westminster,  inquisitions    of  the  lands  in  Ireland  of  John  de  Carreu  be  taken  etc., 

and  to  cause  Leonard  de  Carreu  to  have  seisin  etc.  {as  above,  last  page). 

Feb.  15.         To  John  de  Evesham,  escheator  in  Wiltes.     Order  to  cause  John 

Westminster,  son    and  heir  of  Edmund  Burdon  tenant  in  chief  to  have  seisin  of 

the  lands  of  his  father  ;    as  he  has  proved  his  age  before  Philip  de 

Lutteleye  escheator  in  Gloucestershire,  and  the  king  has  taken  his 

homage  and  fealty. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Cheyne  escheator  in  Devonshire. 

Feb.  16.  To  William  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Northumberland.  Order 
Westminster,  not  to  trouble  John  Stryvelyn,  who  has  taken  to  wife  Jacoba  one  of 
the  daughters  and  heirs  of  Richard  de  Emeldon  tenant  in  chief,  con- 
cerning his  homage  for  her  purparty  of  the  lands  which  Christiana 
who  was  wife  of  William  de  Plumpton  knight  held  in  dower  after  the 
death  of  the  said  Richard  her  first  husband,  releasing  any  distraint 
made  ;  as  the  king  has  taken  the  homage  of  the  said  John  due  by 
reason  of  issue  between  him  and  the  said  Jacoba  begotten. 

By  p.8.  [26521a.] 


39    PJDVVAHJ)    111.  97 


13C5.  Membrane  36 — cont. 

Feb.  6.  To    tlie    sheriff    of    Suthampton.     Order    to    stay    altogether    tlio 

Westminster,  execution,  if  not  already  executed,  of  the  king's  writ  ordering  the 
lands,  goods  and  cliattels  of  Kustace  Dahiichecourt  knight  of  Surrey 
and  Thomas  Garlek  of  Clieshire  to  be  exttnidcd  and  appraised  and 
to  be  delivered  to  John  Devenissh  citizen  and  skinner  of  London  and 
Eudo  Purchace  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  and  the  execution  of 
any  writ  to  take  the  bodies  of  the  said  l*]ustaee  and  Thomas  for  tliat 
cause,  and  in  case  the  same  be  executed  to  cause  their  bodies  to  be 
delivered,  and  their  lands,  goods  and  chattels  to  be  taken  again  into 
the  king's  hand  from  possession  of  tlie  said  John  and  Eudo  and 
delivered  to  the  said  Eustace  and  Thomas  ;  as  lately  by  colour  of 
a  recognisance  for  336/.  payable  at  terms  long  past  by  the  said 
Eustace  and  Thomas  made  to  the  said  John  and  Eudo  before  John 
Pyel  mayor  of  the  staple  of  Westminster,  deputed  to  receive  recog- 
nisances for  debts  in  the  said  staple,  which  money  was  not  paid  at 
the  said  terms,  by  writ  made  according  to  a  process  in  chancery 
thereupon,  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  cause  the  said  lands  and 
goods  to  be  delivered  as  aforesaid  to  John  and  Eudo  to  hold  until 
they  should  be  contented  of  100/.  in  part  of  the  said  sum  ;  but 
John  and  Eudo  appearing  before  the  king  in  chancery  have  acknow- 
ledged that  they  have  been  contented  of  the  said  336/. 
The  like  to  the  following  : — 

To  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester  concerning  100/. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Somerset  concerning  100/. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Devon  concerning  36/. 

Membrane  35. 

Feb.  6.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Walter  Carburra,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

The  like  to  the  same  sheriff,  for  election  of  a  coroner  instead  of 
Hervey  Trenaswethen. 

The  like  to  the  same  sheriff,  for  election  of  a  coroner  instead  of  John 
Penhirgharth. 

Feb.  20.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  search 

Westminster,  tl^?  rolls  and  memoranda  of  the  exchequer,  and  to  view  a  record  and 
process  whereby  it  is  alleged  that  the  manor  of  Holegh  Mas  recovered 
in  the  king's  court,  and  if  thereby  assured  that  Thomas  de  Brewes 
had  the  wardship  of  no  other  lands  but  of  the  manors  of  Wanton, 
Hemesheved  and  Holegh  by  virtue  of  the  king's  commission  of  all 
the  lands  in  Surrey  which  were  of  John  de  Brewes  deceased,  taken 
into  his  hand  for  that  John  son  and  heir  of  the  said  John  was  an 
idiot  from  birth,  and  that  the  said  manor  of  Holegh  was  so  recovered 
out  of  his  possession,  to  stay  their  demands  now  made  by  exchequer 
summons  upon  Beatrice,  wife  and  executrix  of  the  said  Thomas, 
for  20/.  a  year  during  all  the  time  that  Thomas  had  that  wardship, 
namely  for  the  proportion  of  the  said  20/.  a  year  which  is  the  value 
of  the  manor  of  Holegh,  and  for  the  residue  of  that  yearly  sum  from 
8  November  in  the  37th  year  of  the  reign,  discharging  as  well  the 
said  Thomas  as  Beatrice,  his  other  executors,  and  the  tenants  of 
his  lands,  the  said  John  the  son  and  Joan  his  wife,  and  releasing  any 
distraint  made  by  the  sheriff  of  Surrey  upon  the  said  Beatrice  for 
that  cause  ;  as  lately  the  king  committed  the  said  wardship  to 
Thomas  de  Brewes  to  hold  so  long  as  the  lands  should  remain  in  his 

E  7 


98  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365*  Membrane  35 — cont. 

hand  for  the  cause  aforesaid,  and  after  on  the  day  named  the  king  by 
letters  patent  committed  the  wardship  of  the  manors  of  Wauton  and 
Hernesheved,  which  were  in  the  wardship  of  Beatrice  as  executrix 
of  her  said  husband  it  was  said,  to  the  said  John  the  son  and 
Joan  during  the  life  of  the  said  John  for  maintenance  of 
him,  his  wife,  their  children  and  household  without  rendering 
anything  to  the  king,  [out  of  compassion]  for  their  estate,  who  have 
no  means  of  livelihood  unless  the  king  come  to  their  aid  ;  and  now 
on  behalf  of  Beatrice  the  king  is  informed  that,  though  John  de  Brewes 
had  no  lands  in  Surrey  but  the  said  two  manors  and  the  manor  of 
Holegh,  where  [were]  in  the  wardship  of  the  said  Thomas  by  virtue 
of  the  said  commission,  and  thovigh  the  manor  of  Holegh  was  recovered 
out  of  his  hands  by  process  in  the  king's  court  made  with  the  king's 
knoA^'ledge  and  at  his  command,  and  though  the  said  two  manors 
are  delivered  to  the  said  John  the  son  and  Joan  by  virtue  of  the 
king's  commission  to  them  made,  and  so  all  the  lands  of  John  de 
Brewes  are  wholly  delivered  out  of  the  hands  of  Thomas  and  Beatrice, 
the  treasurer  and  the  said  barons  are  nevertheless  demanding  of 
Beatrice,  as  executrix  of  Thomas,  a  yearly  payment  of  201.  for  the 
said  lands,  whereupon  she  has  prayed  the  king  for  remedy, 

Feb.  16.  To  John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Kent.     Order  to  remove  the  king's 

Westminster,  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  certain  tenements  called 
Charles  in  Derteford,  restoring  to  John  Michel  the  issues  thereof  taken 
in  the  mean  time  to  the  king's  use  ;  as  lately  upon  the  finding  of  an 
inquisition,  taken  by  John  de  Tye  the  escheator,  that  John  de 
Cobbeham  knight,  who  held  the  premises  for  life  with  reversion  to  the 
king,  aliened  the  same  in  fee  to  the  said  John  Michel  to  the  king's 
disherison  contrary  to  the  statute,  and  that  thereby  the  premises 
pertain  to  the  king  for  that  John  de  Cobbeham  made  thereof  a  greater 
estate  to  John  Michel  than  he  had  therein,  John  Michel  appearing 
before  the  king  in  chancery  alleged  that  at  the  time  of  the  feoffment 
to  him  made  John  de  Cobbeham  was  thereof  seised  in  his  demesne 
as  of  fee,  as  he  is  ready  to  prove,  and  Michael  Skyllyng,  suing 
for  the  king  in  that  behalf,  said  that  at  the  time  of  the  said  feoffment 
John  de  Cobbeham  had  no  estate  therein  but  for  life,  craving  that 
of  this  inquisition  might  be  made  by  the  country,  and  John  Michel 
likewise,  wherefore  a  day  was  given  the  parties  before  the  king  in  the 
quinzaine  of  Easter  last ;  and  the  process  thereupon  being  continued, 
it  is  found  by  the  inquisition  whereupon  the  parties  put  themselves 
that,  at  the  time  of  the  feoffment  made  to  John  Michel,  John  de 
Cobbeham  was  seised  of  the  premises  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  whereby 
it  is  determined  that  the  king's  hand  shall  be  removed,  and  John 
Michel  shall  have  restitution  thereof  together  with  the  issues 
aforesaid. 

Mandate  to  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  to 
discharge  as  well  John  Michel,  to  whom  the  king  committed  the 
keeping  of  the  premises  rendering  at  the  exchequer  4  marks  a  year 
whereat  the  same  are  extended  if  it  should  be  adjudged  that  they 
or  the  issues  of  them  ought  to  pertain  to  the  king,  as  also  the 
escheator  of  the  said  issues,  and  of  rendering  an  account  thereof. 

Feb.  20.         To  Henry  de  Grene  and  his  fellows,   justices   appointed   to  hold 
Westmin»t«r.  pleas   before   ths   king.     Order,    notwithstanding   that   the   business 


39  EDWARD  III. 


99 


1305. 


Membrane  35 — conl. 


concerns  the  king  and  Isabel  his  daughter,  to  command  an  inqui- 
fr'ition  to  be  taken,  if  not  ah-eady  taken,  before  John  de  Moubray  one 
of  the  justices  of  the  Bencli  by  the  king's  writ  of  nisi  priun,  between 
the  king  and  Isabel  his  daughter  on  the  one  part  and  John  de 
Dynhani  on  the  other  part,  namely  whether  Thomas  de  Courtenaye 
tenant  in  chief  deceased,  whose  lands  are  in  the  king's  hand  by 
reason  of  the  nonage  of  Hugh  his  son  and  lieir  and  in  the  wardship  of 
the  said  Isabel  by  the  king's  commission,  was  at  his  death  seised  in 
his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  certain  manors  ai\d  lands  in  Somerset  and 
Devon  in  the  process  contained,  as  in  the  said  process  is  alleged  on 
behalf  of  the  king  and  the  said  Isabel,  or  whether  in  his  life  time  he 
demised  the  same  to  the  said  John,  as  by  liim  nlleged  in  the  said  process, 
w  it  bout  that  that  he  was  thereof  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  at  his 
death.  Proviso  that  the}'  shall  not  proceed  to  render  judgment 
therein  without  advising  the  king. 

Feb.  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton.     Order  to  remove  the  king's  hand, 

Westminster,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage,  32  acres  of  land,  3  acres 
of  meadow  and  2  acres  of  pasture  in  Irtlj^ngburgh  and  two  messuages 
with  a  garden,  98  acres  of  land  and  3  roods  of  meadow  in  Raundes 
which  were  of  William  son  of  William  le  Botiller  of  Hardemede  and 
of  Joan  his  wife  as  of  the  right  and  heritcige  of  the  said  Joan,  delivering 
to  her  any  issues  thereof  taken  since  tl\e  said  William's  death  ;  as 
lately  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause 
wherefore  the  lands  of  the  said  William  son  of  W^illiam  and  Joan  in 
Irtlyngburgh  and  Raundes  were  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand, 
what  lands  they  were,  of  whom  held,  and  of  what  value  a  year,  and 
he  returned  that  he  so  took  the  premises  by  virtue  of  the  king's 
command  to  him  addressed  to  make  inquisition  what  lands  in  his 
bailiwick  the  said  William  had  one  month  after  Easter  in  the  37th 
year  of  the  reign,  on  which  day  the  said  William  was  a  clerk  convicted 
before  the  king  at  Westminster,  and  that  the  premises  are  held  of  others 
than  the  king  ;  and  by  certificate  of  the  abbot  of  Westminster,  sent 
before  the  king  in  chancery  by  his  command,  it  is  found  that  the 
said  William,  who  w^as  lately  before  the  king  impeached  of  certain 
felonies  and  was  delivered  to  the  abbot  as  ordinary  according  to  the 
1:)enefit  of  clergy,  died  on  12  May  last  in  the  abbot's  prison  at  West- 
minster of  a  natural  disease. 


Membrane  34. 

Feb.  21.  To   William   de   Otteford   escheator  in   Bedfordshire   and   Buking- 

Westminster.  hamshire.     Order  to  cause  Thomas  son  and  heir  of  Nicholas  Pouer 

tenant  in  chief  to  have  seisin  of  the  lands  of  his  father  ;    as  the  said 

Thomas  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has 

taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [26537.] 

The  like  to  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Hertfordshire. 


Membrane  33. 

Feb.  24.  To   the   brethren   of  the   hospital  of  St.  Leonard  York.     Writ  de 

Westminster,  intendendo,    directing   them   to   observe   an    ordinance   touching   the 

estate    and    governance    of    the    said    hospital,    of     the      brethren, 

sisters,    clerks    and    ministers    therein,     and     of     others     now     or 

hereafter     abiding     therein     by     whatsoever     colour,    and     of    the 


100 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1865. 


Membrane  33 — cont. 


possessions  as  well  temporal  as  spiritual  that  thereto  belong 
or  ought  to  belong,  made  at  the  king's  special  command  by  Simon 
bishop  of  Ely  the  chancellor,  to  whom  the  visitation  of  all  the  king's 
hospitals  and  free  chapels  is  acknowledged  to  belong,  by  advice  of 
the  learned  of  his  council  after  information  had  ;  and  to  be  attendant 
upon  Richard  de  Ravenser  the  king's  clerk,  warden  of  the  said 
hospital,  to  whom  the  king  has  opened  his  Avill  touching  this  matter, 
commanding  him  to  declare  and  shew  to  them  the  said  ordinance  and 
the  king's  command  that  they  may  observe  and  keep  it,  performing 
at  their  peril  those  things  M-hich  he  shall  lay  before  them  ;  as  the 
king  has  of  liis  particular  knowledge  accepted  the  said  ordinance, 
confirming  it  by  letters  patent  under  his  great  seal. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Feb.  22.  To  Richard  la  Vaclie  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London,  or  to  his 
Westminster.'  lieutenant.  Order  to  cause  William  de  Wenlok  clerk  to  be  set  free 
from  the  prison  within  the  Tower  by  the  mainprise  of  John  de  Buyres 
of  London  '  draper  '  and  Adam  Karlill  of  London ;  as  they  appearing 
in  person  before  the  king  in  chancery  have  mainperned  under  a  pain 
of  1,000Z.  to  have  the  body  of  the  said  William  before  the  king 
at  his  command  upon  warning  received  when  the  king  shall  choose 
to  proceed  with  a  cause  against  him,  and  that  in  the  mean  time  he 
shall  not  pass  out  of  the  realm,  nor  attempt  or  procure  aught  that 
may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  of  his  crown.  By  K. 

Membrane  32. 

Feb.  10.  To  the  prior  of  Lewes.  Whereas  lately,  on  finding  by  inspection 
Westminster,  of  the  rolls  of  chancery  that  the  prior  of  Lewes  was  first  summoned 
to  a  paiiiament  holden  in  the  4th  year  of  the  late  king,  and  not  before 
to  any  parliaments  of  the  said  late  king  or  of  King  Edward  I  or  at 
any  other  time,  and  after  that  year  only  at  intervals  in  the  time  of 
the  king  and  of  the  said  late  king,  taking  knowledge  that  the  prior's 
name  was  of  his  will  and  not  of  right  inserted  in  the  rolls  of  chancery 
among  the  names  of  prelates  so  summoned,  the  king  ordered  his  name 
to  be  withdrawn,  cancelled  and  erased  so  that  henceforth  the  prior 
for  the  time  being  shall  not  be  summoned,  but  shall  be  discharged  of 
coming  to  parliament :  the  king  holds  the  said  prior  excused  for  not 
coming  to  the  present  parliament  according  to  the  summons  made  him, 
and  hereby  signifies  the  same  to  him.  By  pet.  of  pari. 

Et  erat  patens. 

[Report  on  Dignity  of  a  Peer,  iv.  p.  638.] 


^eof^i 


'ft  a 


Feb.  17.  To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Suffolk.  Order  to  take  of 
Westminster.  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  William  de  Kerdeston  knight  tenant  in  chief 
an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to 
assign  her  dower  of  the  lands  of  her  said  husband  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  his  death  and  yet  in  the  king's  hand,  sending  the 
assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

[arch  20.        Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Stafford  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
'^^rnbiater.  instead  of    Richard  Lovesone,  who  is  too  infirm  to  perform  the  duties 
of  that  offioe. 


4 


00 


•r-i 


■^(\^ 


39  EDWARD  III. 


lOi 


13()5.  Membrane  32 — cont. 

Order  to  the:  sheriff  of  StaiTord  to  cau.se  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
instead  of  NV^illiam  le  llunte,  wlio  has  no  lands  in  the  county  whereof 
he  may  answer  according  to  the  statute. 

Like  order  to  the  said  sheriff  concerning  the  removal  of  William 
de  Thykkenes  and  Thomas  de  Pype. 

March  25.  To  Richard  de  Wydeville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.  Order 
Windsor,  to  take  the  fealty  of  Roger  de  Louth  according  to  the  form  of  a  sc^hedule 
enclosed,  to  make  a  partition  of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Wyk- 
hamond  into  two  parts  in  presence  of  the  said  Roger,  Margery  his 
wife,  William  de  Cogenho  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  if  upon  warning 
they  will  attend,  and  to  cause  the  said  Roger  and  Margery, 
William  and  Elizabeth  to  have  seisin  of  the  purparties  thereof  falling 
to  the  said  Margery  and  Elizabeth  respectively,  saving  to  the  king 
the  relief  to  him  due,  sending  the  partition  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery  ; 
as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  Joan  who 
was  wife  of  John  de  Wolverton  knight  at  her  death  held  no  lands  in 
that  county  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  as  jointly  enfeoffed 
with  the  said  John  sometime  her  husband  (likewise  deceased)  held 
the  said  manor  and  advowson  with  reversion  to  Margery  and  Elizabeth 
as  daughters  and  heirs  of  John,  being  of  full  age,  and  that  the 
premises  are  held  in  chief  as  parcel  of  the  barony  of  Wolverton  ;  and 
the  king  has  taken  the  homage  and  fealty  as  well  of  the  said  William 
by  reason  of  issue  between  him  and  Elizabeth  as  of  John  Hunte 
sometime  husband  of  Margery  by  reason  of  issue  between  them 
begotten  for  the  lands  of  the  said  John  [de  Wolverton]. 

April  24.        Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  William  de  Fewell,  who  is  dead. 


Membrane  31. 

April  2.  To    Roger    de    Wolfreton    escheator    in    Hertfordshire.     Order    to 

Westminster,  assign  to  Andrew  de  Bures  and  Katherine  his  wife,  who  was  wife  of 
John  Aynell  tenant  in  chief,  her  dower  of  the  lands  of  the  said  John 
her  husband,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in 
chancery,  although  she  has  married  the  said  Andrew  without  the 
king's  licence,  whereby  her  dower  is  forfeit  to  the  king.  By  K. 

The  like  to   William  de   Otteford  escheator  in   Bedfordshire   and 
Bukingharnshire. 

April  4.  To    Thomas    de    Wythornwyk    escheator    within    the    liberty    of 

Westminster.  Holdernesse.  Order  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage  and 
four  bovates  of  land  in  Ryngburghneuton,  twelve  bovates  of  land  in 
the  same  town,  a  messuage  and  one  bovate  and  a  half  of  land  in 
Outhorne,  two  bovates  and  a  half  in  the  same  town,  and  divers  other 
lands  within  the  liberty  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of 
Nicholas  de  Thorne,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  it  is 
found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Nicholas 
at  his  death  held  no  lands  within  that  liberty  of  the  king  as  of  the 
crown  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  first  mentioned  messuage 
and  land  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  and  the  said  twelve  bovates  in 
service  of  the  king  as  of  the  honour  of  Albemarle  by  homage  and 
fealty,   the  service  of  doing  suit  at  the  wapentake  of  Holdernesse 


102  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1305.  Membrane  31 — cont. 

every  three  weeks,  of  the  44th  part  of  one  knight's  fee,  and  of  rendering 
5d.  a  year  to  the  ward  of  Skipse  castle,  the  messuage  and  land  in 
Outhorne  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  and  the  said  two  bovates  and  a 
half  there  in  service  likewise  of  the  said  honour  by  homage  and  fealty, 
by  the  service  of  the  88th  part  of  one  knight's  fee,  and  of  rendering 
l^d.  a  year  to  the  ward  of  the  said  castle,  and  divers  other  lands  within 
the  liberty  of  others  than  the  king,  and  that  Maud  wife  of  John  de 
Villers,  Avice  and  Elizabeth  his  daughters  are  his  next  heirs  and 
of  full  age  ;  and  the  king  lately  granted  to  Isabel  his  daughter  for 
life  all  the  lands  which  he  had  within  the  said  liberty,  together  with 
the  knights'  fees  thereto  pertaining. 

April  5.  To  Richard  de  Wydeville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.     Order 

Windsor,  to  cause  Richard  de  Clendon,  cousin  and  heir  of  Roese  {Rosea)  who 
was  wife  of  Nicholas  Paries,  to  have  seisin  of  the  lands  of  the 
said  Roese  tenant  in  chief  by  her  death  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  ;  as  the  said  Richard  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator, 
and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [26581.] 

May  1.  To  the  sheriffs,  mayors,  bailiffs,  ministers  and  other  the  king's  lieges. 

Westminster.  Order  to  suffer  Simon  now  bishop  of  London,  the  dean  and  chapter 
of  the  church  of  St.  Paul  London  and  their  men  to  be  quit  in  regard 
to  all  their  goods  and  property  of  toll,  pontage,  passage,  payage,  lastage, 
stallage,  tallage,  carriage  and  pasnage  in  all  places  within  their  districts 
whatsoever,  restoring  anything  of  them  taken  for  that  cause, 
according  to  the  charters  of  the  king's  forefathers  and  the  king's 
charter  of  confirmation  ;  as  among  other  liberties  it  is  thereby  granted 
to  the  said  bishop,  dean  and  chapter  that  they  and  their  men  for  ever 
shall  be  quit  of  the  said  customs  and  of  every  other  throughout  the 
land  in  regard  to  goods  carried  by  land  or  by  water,  and  it  is  forbidden 
that  any  man  should  trouble  them,  their  property,  possessions,  lands 
or  men  on  pain  of  forfeiting  lOZ.  to  the  king ;  and  the  king  by  charter 
has  confirmed  the  charters  of  his  forefathers,  and  has  further  granted 
that  they  and  their  successors  shall  thenceforth  use  and  enjoy  the 
said  liberties  and  quittances  without  let  of  the  king,  his  heirs,  justices, 
sheriffs,  bailiffs  or  ministers  whatsoever,  though  any  of  them  was 
not  used  heretofore. 
Et  erat  patens. 

May  5.  To  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall  and  the  king's  subadmiral  toward  the 

Westminster,  west.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  the  king  of  Castile  and  of  Edward 
prince  of  Aquitaine  and  Wales,  to  cause  920  quintals  of  iron  by  them 
arrested  to  be  delivered  to  certain  Spanish  merchants  of  the  to^vn8 
of  Bermeo,  Bilvao,  and  Liquecio  in  the  county  of  Viscagia,  the  claim 
of  Alan  Robert  and  Mark  Dovy  notwithstanding  ;  as  the  king  lately 
by  Avrit  of  privy  seal  ordered  the  sheriff  and  subadmiral  to  certify 
the  cause  wherefore  they  arrested  the  said  iron  brought  by  the  said 
Alan  and  Mark  to  the  port  of  Eowy,  and  they  certified  that  on 
Monday  after  the  Assumption  last  they  arrested  the  same  because 
of  a  suspicion  they  had  by  reason  of  certain  speeches  that  the  same 
was  by  people  of  England  stolen  from  certain  merchants  of  Spain  off 
Conk  upon  the  coast  of  Brittany,  and  for  better  information  took 
an  inquisition  by  good  and  sufficient  seamen  and  merchants,  whereby 
it  was  found  that  the  said  Alan  and  Mark  merchants  of  Cornwall 


39  EDWARD  III.  103 


1365.  Membrane  ^l—cont. 

crossed  the  sea  in  a  ship  called  '  la  Pedrok '  sailing  from  Cornwall  to 
Garounde  to  get  salt,  and  when  the  ship  came  to  (^rarounde  and  was 
laded  with  salt,  returning  by  sea  towards  Cornwall,  th(>y  were  driven 
by  too  violent  a  wind  to  a  port  called  Seint  Gilinyn  of  Conk  in 
Brittany  and  long  detained  there,  so  that  without  sale  of  their  salt 
they  might  not  endure,  and  sold  the  same  there  to  merchants  of  that 
port,  and  after  buying  the  said  iron  of  John  Gauceby  and  Domyngo 
Vanes  lawful  menshants  of  the  same  port,  and  paying  the  custom 
thereof  due  as  befitted  good  and  true  merchants,  brought  it  to  the 
port  of  Fowy  as  their  true  chattel,  as  lawful  was  ;  and  the  king  is 
assured  by  good  and  sufficient  proof  made  before  him  and  the 
council,  by  letters  of  the  said  king  and  prince  to  him  addressed,  and 
by  other  evidence  shewn  before  him  and  tlu^  council,  that  the  iron 
\\as  of  certain  merchants  of  the  king  of  Castile  of  the  said  towns  in 
ships  of  Spain  laden  therewith  and  with  other  merchandise  to  be 
taken  to  Brittany,  and  was  by  certain  pirates  of  England  and 
Brittany  stolen  at  sea  oft"  the  coast  of  Brittany  in  time  of  truce  between 
the  said  kings  and  their  subjects  ;  and  on  behalf  of  the  said  king 
Diind  prince  earnest  prayer  has  been  made  for  restitution  thereof. 

By  K.  and  C. 

May  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall  and  the  king's  subadmiral  toward  the 
Westminster,  west.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  de  Veyages,  who  for  himself 
and  his  fellows  merchants  of  Bermeo,  Bilvao  and  Liquecio  was  suing 
before  the  king  and  council  for  recovery  of  the  iron  above  mentioned, 
to  deliver  to  Alan  Robert  and  Mark  Dovy  all  the  iron  by  them 
arrested  ;  as  the  king  lately  etc.  [as  above) ;  and  at  the  petition  of  the 
king  of  Castile  and  the  prince  of  Wales  by  writ  to  the  sheriff  and 
subadmiral  addressed  commanded  the  same  to  be  delivered  to  the 
said  merchants ;  and  after  the  said  John,  appearing  before  the  king 
in  chancery,  acknowledged  that  the  said  Alan  and  Mark  had  con- 
tented him  of  the  price  thereof,  praying  that  it  should  be  to  them 
delivered  as  sold  by  him.  The  king's  will  is  that  the  sheriff"  and 
subadmiral  be  thereof  discharged  toward  him  and  toward  the 
said  merchants.  By  K.  and  C. 

May  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester.  Order  to  remove  the  king's  hand, 
Westminster,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  twelve  tuns  of  w  ine  of  John  de  Cherleton, 
Richard  de  Beorton,  Thomas  de  la  Grene  and  John  Taverner  of 
Wircestre  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand  ;  as  lately  the  king 
ordered  the  sheriff  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  he  took 
and  detained  the  said  wine,  and  he  certified  that  he  did  so  in  case  the 
wine  should  be  adjudged  for  wreck,  for  that  a  boat  wherein  were  the 
said  tuns  was  by  a  storm  of  wind  sunk  in  the  river  Severn  between 
the  lordship  of  Berkeley  and  the  forest  of  Dene,  when  no  man 
escaped  alive  therefrom  ;  and  the  business  being  examined  before 
the  council,  it  seems  to  the  council  that  goods  found  in  such  rivers 
ought  not  to  be  adjudged  for  wreck.  By  C. 

The  like  to  Philip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  Gloucestershire,  for 
the  said  John  de  Cherleton  etc. 

May  26.         To  the  mayor  and  constable  of  the  staple  of    Gippewic  and  the 

Westminster,  collectors  of  customs  there,  also  to  the  merchants  resorting  to  the 

said    staple.     Order,  under  a    double    pain,  to  cause  that  which  by 


104 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  31 — cont. 

oath  of  Richard  de  Haverlond  of  Gippewic  they  may  be  assured  that 
he  has  paid  for  balances,  weights  and  other  things  needful  for  weighing 
wool  in  the  staple  of  that  port,  to  be  without  delay  collected  and 
levied  among  them,  and  paid  to  the  said  Richard,  that  by  their  default 
the  weighing  and  unlading  of  wool  in  that  port  be  not  hindered  to 
the  king's  loss,  whereby  he  should  have  matter  of  wrath  against  them  ; 
as  for  the  common  advantage  of  merchants  flocking  to  the  said  staple 
the  king  caused  balances  and  weights  for  weighing  wool  therein  to  be 
new  made  and  sent  thither  at  their  request,  for  the  making  whereof 
and  the  cost  the  said  Richard  paid,  as  it  is  witnessed  before  the  king. 

By  K.  and  C. 

May  21.  To  the  collectors  of  the  custom  of  wool,  hides  and  woolfells  in  the 
Westminster,  port  of  London.  Order  to  weigh  all  wool  in  the  said  port  to  be  taken 
to  Calais  without  waiting  according  to  the  form  of  the  ordinance  of 
the  staple  for  any  bill  of  the  mayor  of  the  staple  at  Westminster, 
and  upon  payment  of  the  customs  and  subsidies  thereupon  due,  to  suffer 
the  wool  to  be  by  aliens  taken  thither  according  to  the  command 
to  them  previously  addressed,  the  said  ordinance  notwithstanding  ; 
as  that  is  the  king's  will. 

April  28.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer,  and  to  the  cham- 
Westminster.  berlains.  Order  to  search  the  rolls  of  accounts  rendered  at  the 
exchequer  by  the  collectors  of  custom  in  the  port  of  Berewic  upon 
Twede  and  the  other  roll^  and  memoranda  of  the  exchequer,  and  of 
the  issues  of  the  said  custom  if  sufficient,  otherwise  of  the  treasury, 
to  cause  payment  to  be  made  to  Henry  de  Percy,  son  and  heir  of 
Henry  de  Percy,  of  the  arrears  of  500  marks  to  be  taken  upon  the 
said  custom  which  by  letters  patent  the  king  lately  granted  to  the 
said  Henry  the  father  and  to  his  heirs,  or  to  make  him  a  competent 
assignment  to  content  him.  By  K.  and  C. 

May  20.  To  the  collectors  of  the  custom  of  wool,  hides  and  woolfells  in  the 

Westminater.  port  of  London.  Order  to  suffer  all  merchants  natives  and  alien  to  be 
quit  of  payment  of  custom  and  subsidy  for  the  canvas  wherein  their 
wool  shall  be  packed  to  take  to  Calais,  or  for  the  corners  thereof,  as 
heretofore  used  to  be  done,  and  as  ordered  and  agreed  in  the  parlia- 
ment holden  at  Westminster  in  the  34th  year  of  the  reign. 


Membrane  30. 

May  6.  To  John  atte  Lee  steward  of  the  lands  of  Queen  Philippa.     Order 

Westminster,  to  pay  to  the  prior  and  brethren  of  the  order  of  St.  Mary  of  Mount 
Carmel  and  to  the  convent  of  Bishops  Lenne  the  arrears  of  a  yearly 
rent  of  ten  quarters  of  wheat  and  ten  quarters  of  barley  from  the 
death  of  John  Bardolf  of  Wirmegeye  tenant  in  chief,  and  to  pay  the 
same  henceforth  until  the  lawful  age  of  his  heir,  according  to  the 
said  John's  grant,  as  it  has  been  paid  heretofore  ;  as  by  inquisitions 
taken  by  the  king's  command  of  the  said  John's  lands,  which  are  in 
the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir, 
and  in  the  said  queen's  wardship  of  the  king's  grant,  it  is  found  that 
John  in  his  life  time  with  the  king's  licence  by  charter  granted  that 
rent  to  the  said  prior  and  brethren  and  their  successors,  to  be  taken 
at  All  Saints  of  his  manor  of  Stowe  co.  Suffolk  (sic),  for  the  soul  of  the 
grantor  and  of  his  ancestors. 


39  EDWARD  III. 


105 


1365.  Membrane  30 — cont. 

May  12.  To  Edtmuul  Cheync  keeper  of  tlie  iHlands  of  Jercseye,  Gernenrye, 
Westminster.  Serk  and  Aureiioye.  Order  to  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to 
meddle  further  with  the  esperquerie  of  eong(>rs  and  tlie  customs  of 
mackerel  of  the  men  and  tenants  of  the  abbey  of  Mont  St.  Michel 
ill  periculo  maris  in  Geniereye,  delivering  wholly  to  the  said  abbot 
and  to  the  prior  of  Vallia  in  Gernereye  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as 
lately  at  the  suit  of  the  said  abbot,  alleging  that  he  and  his  pre- 
decessors were  time  out  of  mind  in  possession  of  the  esperquerie  and 
customs  aforesaid  without  interference,  as  may  appear  by  the  record 
and  process  of  a  plea  between  the  king  and  the  said  abbot  moved  in 
the  last  eyre  of  justices,  and  that  the  said  keeper  has  of  his  will  without 
due  process  unlawfully  ousted  the  said  abbot  from  possession  thereof, 
and  the  said  prior  to  him  subject,  seizing  the  same  into  the 
king's  hand,  the  king  by  writ  commanded  the  said  keeper  to 
be  before  him  and  the  council  in  chancery  three  weeks  after 
Easter  last  to  inform  them  concerning  the  manner  and  cause 
of  taking  the  same  into  the  king's  hand,  and  concerning  the 
king's  right  therein,  giving  the  abbot  that  day  to  do  and  receive  what 
should  be  lawful  in  the  premises  ;  and  though  the  keeper  received 
the  writ,  as  is  testified  before  the  king,  he  came  not  at  that  day,  and 
by  the  said  record  and  process,  which  the  king  caused  to  come  before 
him  in  chancery,  it  is  clear  that  the  abbot,  the  prior  and  their  predeces- 
sors were  seised  in  possession  as  aforesaid  time  out  of  mind.  By  C. 
Et  erat  patens. 

May  26.  To  William  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  to  cause 
Westminster,  three  tofts  and  six  bovates  of  land  in  Marton  and  Tollesby  in 
Clyveland  to  be  taken  again  into  the  king's  hand  and  delivered  to 
John  de  Horeworth,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  from  the  time 
they  were  first  so  taken  ;  as  lately  the  king  ordered  the  escheator 
to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  he  took  the  said  John's 
lands  in  Marton  and  Tauceby  into  the  king's  hand,  and  he  signified 
that  the  said  John  was  lately  an  adherent  of  Andrew  de  Hercla  the 
king's  enemy  and  rebel  in  his  enmities  against  the  king's  allegiance, 
and  that  Ellen  de  Horeworth,  who  held  the  premises  of  William 
Malbys  by  homage  and  fealty,  died  about  two  years  past,  after  whose 
death  the  said  John  entered  llie  same  as  his  right  and  as  her  next 
heir,  and  so  held  them  ;  and  after,  for  that  the  late  king  by  letters 
patent,  produced  before  the  king  in  chancery,  of  his  favour  pardoned 
the  said  John  the  suit  of  his  peace  and  whatsoever  pertained  to  him 
for  that  adherence,  and  for  that  he  was  of  the  household  of  the  said 
Andrew,  also  for  homicides,  robberies,  felonies  and  trespasses 
whatsoever  in  the  realm  committed  contrary  to  his  allegiance  w'hereof 
he  was  indicted,  and  granted  him  his  peace,  at  the  suit  of  the  said 
John  praying  for  restitution  and  livery  of  the  premises,  the  king 
ordered  the  sheriff  of  York  to  give  notice  to  Richard  de  Hoton,  who 
held  the  same  of  the  king's  grant,  to  be  before  the  king  in  chancery 
in  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  last  to  shew  cause  wherefore  the  premises 
should  not  be  taken  again  into  the  king's  hand  and  so  delivered,  and 
further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court  should  determine  ;  and  the 
sheriff  returned  that  he  gave  such  notice  to  the  said  Richard  and 
Richard  came  not  in  chancery  at  that  day. 

May  8.  To  John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Sussex.     Order  to  cause  William  son 

Westminster,  and  heir  of  William  de  Fifhyde  tenant  in  chief  to  have  seisin  of  hia 


106 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  30—cont. 

said  father's  lands  ;    as  he  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator, 
and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [2664L] 

To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  the  county  of  Suthampton.  Like 
order,  as  the  said  William  has  proved  his  age  before  John  de  Tye. 

By  p.s.  [as  above]. 

May  24.  To  Leo  de  Perton  escheator  in  Worcestershire.  Order  to  cause 
Westminster,  the  bishop  of  Worcester  to  have  seisin  of  12  acres  of  land  in  North wyk 
by  Worcester  held  by  Richard  Elyot  of  Worcester  outlawed  for 
felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by 
the  escheator,  that  the  said  land  has  been  in  his  hand  a  year 
and  a  day,  that  the  said  Richard  held  it  of  the  said  bishop,  and 
that  the  escheator  had  the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste,  and  ought 
to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  same. 

The  like  to  the  said  escheator,  to  cause  John  de  Littleton  to  have 
seisin  of  4  acres  of  land  in  Northwyk  aforesaid  held  by  the  said 
Richard  Elyot, 

May  8.  To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.     Order,   upon  the  petition  of  the 

Westminster,  abbot  of  Lyre,  to  proceed  to  render  judgment  in  a  plea  between  him 
and  the  dean  of  Wy[n]burne,  doing  justice  between  the  parties  ; 
as  the  abbot  has  shewn  that  his  predecessor  impleaded  Master  Richard 
de  Clare  then  dean  of  Wynburne  before  the  said  justices  to  render 
him  288  marks,  arrears  of  a  yearly  rent  of  8  marks  to  him  due,  in 
which  plea  the  dean  alleged  that  he  held  the  deanery  for  life  of  the 
king's  advowson  by  collation  of  the  late  king,  and  found  the  deanery 
discharged  of  the  said  rent,  wherefore  without  the  king  he  ought  not 
to  make  answer,  that  thereby  at  the  said  late  abbot's  suit  command 
was  given  to  the  then  justices  to  proceed  in  the  plea  his  allegation 
notwithstanding,  that  the  process  was  continued  so  that  after  by 
inquisition  of  the  country  and  by  judgment  of  the  court  the  said 
abbot  recovered  the  rent  and  arrears  against  the  said  Richard,  that 
the  now  abbot  is  impleading  the  now  dean  before  the  justices  for 
arrears  of  the  same  rent,  and  that  they  have  deferred  to  proceed  in 
the  plea  for  that  the  now  dean  in  his  pleading  has  alleged  that  he 
holds  the  deanery  of  the  king's  collation,  and  without  the  king  ought 
not  to  make  answer.  By  K.  and  C. 

May  16.  To  Henry  Grene  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hold  pleas 
Westminster,  before  the  king.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  William  son  of  Alexander 
de  Walsham,  to  hear  his  plaint,  summoning  before  them  as  well  John 
Pyel  mayor  of  the  staple  of  Westminster  as  Thomas  de  Naunton 
knight,  and  if  by  inspection  of  his  body  or  other  lawful  information 
they  may  be  assured  that  he  is  as  yet  within  age,  to  proceed  to  annul 
and  quash  a  recognisance  for  400/.  by  the  said  William  made  to  the 
said  Thomas  before  the  said  mayor  ;  as  the  said  William  has  shewn 
the  king  that  he,  being  within  age,  made  the  recognisance  aforesaid 
according  to  the  ordinance  of  the  said  staple,  and  that  though  he  is 
yet  within  age  the  said  Thomas  is  suing  execution  thereof  against 
nim. 

May  12.         To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.     Order  to  abide  by  the  form  of  the 
Westminster,  ordinance  and  statute  of  provisors  in   all   pleas    touching  the  same 


39    1<:DWARD    III.  107 


1365.  Membrane  30 — cont. 

now  or  hereafter  pending  before  them,  any  command  of  the  king 
to  them  lieretofore  addressed  in  any  sueli  plea  to  tlie  eontrary 
notwitlistanding  ;  as  by  the  lords  and  commons  of  the  rcahn  at 
Westminster  it  was  thereby  ordered  that  all  of  the  king's  aUegiancc 
who  liaie  any  man  out  of  the  realm  in  a  plea  on  any  matter  whereof 
cognisance  pertains  to  the  king's  court,  or  whereof  judgments  are 
therein  rendered,  or  who  sue  in  an  alien  court  to  annul  or  impeach 
judgments  therein  rendered,  shall  by  \^•a^ling  to  be  by  the  sheriff  or  otlier 
minister  of  the  king  given  in  the  place  where  are  the  possessions  in 
debate,  or  elsewhere  where  they  have  lands  or  possessions,  have  a 
day  at  an  interval  of  two  months  to  be  before  the  king  and 
council,  or  in  chancery,  or  before  the  justices  of  either  Bench, 
or  other  the  king's  justices  by  him  appointed  for  the  purpose,  to 
answer  in  person  for  the  contempt  made  in  that  behalf,  and  if  they 
shall  not  come  at  that  day  to  stand  to  law,  they,  their  proctors, 
attorneys,  executors,  notaries  and  maintainers  shall  thenceforth  be 
put  out  of  the  king's  protection,  and  their  lands,  goods  and  chattels 
shall  be  forfeit  to  the  king.  By  K.  and  C. 

[^Feeder  a. '\ 

Membrane  29. 

May  2.  To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Berkshire  and  Wiltes.     Order 

Westminster,  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of  Yatyngden  and  Lek- 
hampstede,  the  advowson  of  Yatyngden,  a  meadow  in  Burghefeld 
called  Vyneye,  a  meadow  in  Southecote  called  Hevenemede,  a  meadow 
in  Whitele  called  Holmesmcde,  a  toft  and  one  earucate  of  land  in 
Stratfeld  Mortymer  called  Trunkewell,  8  acres  of  meadow  in  Hake- 
bourne,  a  toft,  60  acres  of  land,  6  acres  of  pasture  and  IJ  acre  of 
wood  in  FoxhuU  co.  Bei'ks,  and  the  manors  of  Beaumys  and  Hakeneston 
CO.  Wiltes,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Edmund  de  la 
Beche,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  divers  inquisitions,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Edmund 
at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  those  counties  in  chief  in  his  demesne 
as  of  fee,  but  held  the  premises  for  life,  with  reversion  to  Andrew  de 
Sakevylle  the  younger,  Edmund  Dauvers  and  John  Duyn,  and  tliat 
the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

May  20.         To  Philip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  Salop.     Order  not  to  distrain 

Westminster.  Hugh  brother  and  heir  of  John  Tyrel  tenant  in  chief  for  his  homage, 

releasing  any  distraint  already  made  for  that  cause  ;    as  the  king  has 

taken  his  homage.  By  p.s.  [26654.] 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

John  de  Bekynton  escheator  in  Dorset. 

John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 

May  19.  To  Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Order  to  cause 
Westminster.  Henry  de  Percy  and  Joan  his  wife,  daughter  and  heir  of  John  de  Orreby 
tenant  in  chief,  to  have  seisin  of  the  lands  of  the  said  John  her  father 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  ;  as  she  has  proved  her  age 
before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  the  fealty  of  the  said 
Henry. 


108 


1365. 


May  16. 

Westminster. 


June  12. 

Westminster. 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


Membrane  29 — cont. 

To   William  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Like  order,   as 
the  said  Joan  has  proved  her  age  before  Walter  de  Kelby. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Essex,  Norffolk  and  Suffolk. 
William  de  Otteford  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire, 
William      de     Fretheleye     escheator    in    Notynghamshire    and 
Derbyshire. 

To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Essex.  Order  not  to  meddle 
further  with  the  manor  of  Reynham  called  Southalle,  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Alice  who  was  wife  of  John  de 
Staunton,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Alice 
at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  nor  of  any  other 
in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  manor  as  jointly  enfeoffed 
with  her  said  husband  (likewise  deceased)  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of 
Menaudus  de  Chesthunte  knight  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  John,  and 
that  the  same  is  held  of  another  than  the  king. 

To  the  chancellor  of  Ireland  for  the  time  being,  or  to  his  repre- 
sentative. Order  to  cause  command  to  be  given,  by  writs  under  the 
king's  seal  used  in  Ireland,  to  the  ministers  to  whom  they  should  be 
given,  to  cause  all  the  lands  in  Ireland  which  Elizabeth  who  was 
wife  of  John  de  Erlegh  tenant  in  chief  at  her  death  held  in  dower  of 
the  heritage  of  John  son  and  heir  of  the  said  John,  and  which  by  her 
death  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  if  not  yet  to  him  delivered, 
to  be  delivered  [to  the  said  John  the  son],  together  with  the  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  on  13  March  in  the  36th  year  of  his  reign,  on  the 
finding  of  an  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  John  de 
Bekynton  escheator  in  Somerset,  that  the  said  Elizabeth,  who  died 
12  December  in  the  35th  year,  at  her  death  held  divers  lands  in  that 
county  in  dower  of  the  heritage  of  the  said  John  the  son,  the  king 
commanded  the  escheator  to  cause  him  to  have  livery  of  the  same, 
having  at  another  time  taken  his  homage  and  fealty  for  the  lands  of 
his  said  father. 


I 


June  12.  To  the  same.  Like  order  to  cause  command  to  be  given  to  cause 
Westminster,  all  the  lands  in  Ireland  of  John  de  Erlegh  the  father  tenant  in  chief, 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death,  if  not  yet  to  him  delivered, 
to  be  delivered  to  John  his  son  and  heir,  together  with  the  issues 
thereof  taken  from  18  December  in  the  28th  year  of  the  reign  ;  as  on  that 
day  the  age  of  John  the  son  was  proved,  and  the  king  commanded 
the  then  chancellor  of  Ireland  to  cause  him  to  have  seisin  of  the 
said  lands. 


May  26,  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  and  to  the 
Westminster,  chamberlains.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  William  de  Wyndesore, 
in  the  said  William's  account  for  himself  and  his  men  retained  for  one 
whole  year  upon  the  king's  service  for  furtherance  of  the  war  in 
Ireland,  according  to  an  indenture  between  the  king  and  him  made, 
to  deduct  I2d.  a  day  for  every  man  at  arms,  6d.  for  every  mounted 
archer,  6d.  for  every  mounted  hobbler,  and  6d.  for  three  footmen 
called  '  kernes '  reckoning  three  '  kernes  '  as  one  mounted  archer, 
for  the  times  of  their  vacations,  and  to  cause  allowance  to  be  made 


39  EDWARD  III.  109 


I 


13C5.  Membrane  29 — cont. 

of  the  payinonta  due  to  liim  according  to  the  said  indenture  for  those 
retained  w  illi  him  ;  as  the  said  petition  shews  that  he  was  by  the  said 
indenture  retained  with  the  king  witli  120  men  at  arms  and  2()0  archers, 
to  abide  with  the  king  one  ^\  hole  year  for  tlie  said  \\  ar,  that  after  tho 
lapse  of  the  first  year's  term  by  advice  and  order  of  the  whole 
council  of  Ireland,  for  better  furtherance  of  the  said  war  and  the  king's 
greater  advantage,  he  retained  a  certain  number  of  men  of  Ireland  called 
'kernes'  in  the  room  of  70  English  archers  who  were  lacking  of  his  said 
retinue,  as  may  appear  by  an  indenture  made  between  the  said  council 
and  the  said  William,  and  that  the  treasurer,  barons  and  chamberlains 
have  deferred  the  allowance  of  wages  to  the  said  William  for  the  men 
at  arms,  archers,  hobblers  and  '  kernes '  of  his  retinue  for  those  times, 
for  that  in  his  account  in  the  exchequer  for  that  year  are  found  certain 
vacations  of  such  men,  praying  that  allowances  as  aforesaid  may  be 
made  for  such  vacations,  and  that  the  payments  due  for  such  as  he 
retained  may  be  allowed  him.  By  C. 

May  28.  To  Philip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  Herefordshire  and  Glou- 
Westminster.  cestershire.  Order  to  cause  the  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Leye  co. 
Gloucester,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  among  other  lands  which 
were  of  John  Cofe,  to  be  delivered  to  Thomas  Ralegh  of  Charles  as 
cousin  and  heir  of  the  said  John,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken 
since  John's  death,  so  that  answer  be  made  to  the  king  concerning 
the  issues  taken  before  John's  death  of  the  said  third  part,  and  of  all 
other  the  lands  seized  into  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  his  idiocy,  those 
excepted  which  were  granted  by  the  king's  commission  to  Thomas  de 
Cotes  without  rendering  anything  for  the  same  ;  as  on  1  September 
in  the  32nd  year  of  his  reign  by  letters  patent  the  king  granted  as 
aforesaid  to  Thomas  de  Cotes  the  keeping  of  all  the  said  lands  in 
Westhide  eo.  Hereford,  Eggesworth,  Leye  and  Lassyngdon  co.  Glou- 
cester, lately  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  Henry  de  Prestwode  then 
escheator  for  that  it  was  found  by  inquisitions,  before  him  taken  of 
his  office,  that  John  Cofe  was  an  idiot  born  and  non  compos  mentis,  to 
hold  so  long  as  the  premises  should  for  that  cause  remain  in  the  king's 
hand  ;  and  after  on  the  finding  of  divers  inquisitions,  taken  by  the 
said  Philip  at  the  king's  command,  that  a  third  part  of  the  manors 
of  Lassyngdon,  Leye,  Westbury  and  Eggesworth  co.  Gloucester,  and 
a  third  part  of  a  fourth  part  of  the  manor  of  Westhyde  co.  Hereford 
came  to  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of  the  idiocy  of  the  said  John, 
that  John  died  while  they  were  so  in  his  hand,  that  the  said  Thomas 
Ralegh  is  his  next  heir  and  of  full  age,  and  that  the  said  lands  are 
held  of  others  than  the  king,  at  the  suit  of  the  said  heir  praying  that 
the  king  would  cause  livery  to  be  given  him  of  the  third  part  of  the 
manor  of  Leye  which  was  in  the  hands  of  Gilbert  Talbot  and  Perina 
his  wife,  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since  John's  death,  on 
8  February  last  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester  to  give 
notice  to  the  said  Gilbert  and  Perina  to  be  before  him  in 
chancery  on  a  set  day  now  past  to  shew  cause  wherefore  livery  thereof 
ought  not  so  to  be  given,  and  to  do  and  receive  further  Avhat  the  court 
should  determine,  and  the  sheriff  returned  that  he  gave  them  notice 
accordingly  ;  and  as  well  the  said  Gilbert  in  person  as  the  said 
Perina  by  Lawrence  de  Greyndor  her  attorney  appeared  at  the  day 
named,  and  said  that  they  are  not  tenants  of  the  said  third  part  nor 
Avere  tenants  at  the  date  of  the  writ,  claiming  nothing  therein. 


no 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365. 
March  23. 

Westminster. 


May  26. 

Westminster. 


May  26. 
Westminster. 


May  26. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  28. 
To  Roger  de  Wolferton  escheator  in  Norffolk.  Order  to  take  a 
simple  seisin  in  the  name  of  the  king's  lordship  within  the  gates  of 
the  abbey  of  St.  Benet  Hulme,  now  void  by  the  death  of  William 
de  Hadesco  the  last  abbot,  and  not  to  meddle  by  reason  of  this 
vacancy  with  the  keeping  of  the  said  abbey,  its  cells,  the  manors, 
property  or  goods  to  the  same  or  the  cells  belonging,  suffering  the 
prior  and  convent  thereof  to  dispose  according  to  letters  patent  of 
29  May  33  Edward  I,  and  restoring  to  them  any  issues  thereof  taken, 
saving  always  to  the  king  the  knights'  fees  held  of  the  abbey, 
advowsons  of  churches  and  escheats  falling  in  during  the  vacancy, 
also  the  issues  and  profits  during  this  vacancy  of  any  lands  acquired 
by  the  abbot  and  convent  since  the  said  date  ;  as  the  said  king 
granted  to  the  then  abbot  and  the  convent  that  at  every  vacancy 
the  prior  and  convent  and  their  successors  should  have  the  keeping 
of  the  abbey  and  the  temporalities  thereof  with  all  things  thereto 
belonging  as  fully  as  the  abbot  and  convent  used  to  have  in  any  times 
past  when  his  see  was  filled,  saving  to  the  said  king  and  his 
heirs  the  fees,  advowsons  and  escheats  aforesaid,  so  that  all 
rents  and  yearly  services  of  the  said  fees  arising  should  remain 
to  the  prior  and  convent,  and  that  at  the  end  of  every 
vacancy  (namely  after  fealty  done  '  by  the  abbot  elect  and 
confirmed  or  appointed)  such  escheats  should  be  delivered  to 
the  abbot,  prior  and  convent  without  let,  rendering  to  the  king  at 
every  vacancy,  if  it  should  last  four  months  or  less  200  marks  within 
that  time,  if  longer  200  marks  for  full  four  months  and  for  a  less  time 
in  proportion,  so  that  no  sheriff,  escheator,  bailiff  or  minister  of  the 
king  should  by  reason  of  any  vacancy  meddle  in  the  keeping  of  the 
abbey  and  its  cells  as  aforesaid,  save  that  the  escheator  or  other 
minister  of  the  king  for  the  time  being  should  at  the  beginning  of 
every  vacancy  take  a  simple  seisin  as  aforesaid  and  immediately 
withdraw  without  taking  anything  away,  so  that  by  reason  thereof  he 
should  not  there  abide  longer  than  one  day  nor  leave  any  substitute 
in  his  room. 

To  Lionel  duke  of  Clarence  the  king's  son  and  lieutenant  in  Ireland, 
and  to  the  chancellor  and  treasurer  in  Ireland.  Order  to  cause  all 
the  lands  and  rents  in  Ireland  of  Philippa  countess  of  March,  who 
was  wife  of  Roger  de  Mortuo  Mari  late  earl  of  March,  taken  into  the 
king's  hand,  among  other  lands  of  other  lords  dwelling  out  of  Ireland, 
for  finding  an  aid  for  the  defence  of  their  lands  in  Ireland  according 
to  the  ordinance,  to  be  delivered  to  her  or  to  her  attorneys  to  make 
her  advantage  thereof  ;  as  the  king,  willing  to  shew  favour  to  the 
said  countess,  has  granted  her  all  her  said  lands  Avithout  paying  any 
further  aid  for  the  same.  By  K. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland.  Order,  of  the  issues,  profits  and  rents 
of  Karliol  castle,  to  cause  defects  in  the  said  castle  to  be  repaired 
up  to  63L  by  view  and  testimony  of  Thomas  de  Lucy.  The  king 
has  commanded  the  said  Thomas  to  survey  such  defects  and  testify 
the  costs  incurred  in  that  behalf.  By  C. 

To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  account 
with  William  de  Wyndesore,  who  was  by  indenture  lately  retained  to 
sail  to  Ireland  upon  the  king's  service  with  a  set  number  of  men  at 
arms  and  archers,  for  the  money  by  him  received  and  spent  as  well 


39  EDWARD  III.  Ill 


1305.  Membrane  28 — cont. 

for  himself  and  his  said  men  as  for  the  cost  of  his  retinue,  his  inarch 
to  the  sea  and  abode  there,  and  his  passage  to  Ireland  and  again  to 
England,  the  stock  of  his  horses  and  the  horses  of  his  men  at  arms, 
and  other  matters  in  tlic  indenture  contained,  causing  him  to  have 
due  allowance  accordingly.  IJy  C. 

May  19.  To  John  de  Bekynton  escheator  in  Dorset.  [Order]  to  remove  the 
Wostininster.  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  lands  held  at  his 
death  by  William  Carent  the  father  of  tlie  manor  of  Hampsted 
Marcschal  lately  in  the  king's  hand,  and  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  death  of  the  said  William  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  William 
his  son  and  heir,  and  now  in  his  hand  ;  as  William  the  father  held 
of  the  said  manor  by  knight  service,  and  William  the  son  has  proved 
his  age  before  the  escheator  ;  and  the  king  at  another  time  by  letters 
patent  granted  the  said  manor  to  Isabel  his  daughter  for  life  with  the 
knights'  fees  etc.  thereto  belonging. 

May  24.         To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  allow 
Westminster.  Nicholas  de  Louthe,  receiver  of  the  king's  lordsliips  of  Ponthieu  and 
Montstrolle,  in  his  account  at  the  exchequer  from  time  to  time,  by 
\  view  and  testimony  of  the  king's  controller  in  the  said  lordships  for 

[  the  time  being,  all  needful  expenses  from  the  time  he  became  receiver 

as  well  in  repayments  of  rents,  perpetual  alms,  gifts  in  fee  or  for  life, 
',  w^ages  of  officers,  bailiffs,  collectors,  foresters,  keepers  of  castles  and 

^  manors  therein,  as  for  preserving  the  king's  right  therein,  also  all 

^  payments  he  has  made  and  must  daily  make  as  well  for  the  works 

^  of  new  building  the  castle  of  Crotoye  as  for  repairs  of  castles,  manors, 

mills  and  other  the  houses  therein,  and  allowances  by  the  said 
receiver  made  for  the  king's  advantage  to  farmers  and  others  in 
their   accounts.  By  K. 

May  26.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  allow 
Westminster,  the  kuig's  clerk  Thomas  de  Brantyngham,  treasurer  of  Calais,  in  his 
account  at  the  exchequer  from  time  to  time,  so  much  as  by  his  account 
it  shall  appear  that  from  the  time  he  became  treasurer  he  has  paid 
or  shall  pay  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  St.  Omer  of  the  Carthusian 
order  of  the  yearly  rent  of  1075.  Sd.  which  they  and  their  predecessors 
used  to  take  in  the  town  of  Calais  time  out  of  mind  before  the  town 
came  into  the  king's  hands.  By  K. 

May  8.  To  Richard  de  Wydeville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.     Order 

Westminster,  to  assign  to  Agnes  who  was  wafe  of  John  del  Hay  of  Wodeford,  tenant 
by  knight  service  of  the  abbey  of  Peterborough  lately  void  and  in  the 
king's  hand,  dower  of  the  lands  of  her  said  husband,  in  the  king's  hand 
by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  sending  the 
assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

May  14.  To  the  mayor  of  the  staple  of  Calais  and  the  community  of  mer- 
Westminster.  chants  of  the  said  staple.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Robert  de 
Lincoln  clerk  and  William  Malwayn,  executors  of  John  Malwayn,  to 
cause  24:1.  to  be  paid  to  the  said  executors,  if  not  yet  contented 
thereof,  that  therewith  they  may  cause  another  pair  of  balances  with 
weights  to  be  made,  as  they  are  commanded  by  the  council  ;  as  their 
petition  shews  that    by  order  of  the  council  they  delivered  to  the 


112  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  28 — cont. 

said  mayor  and  merchants  to  their  use  for  weighing  wool  in  the  town 
of  Calais  a  pair  of  balances  with  weights  made  by  the  said  John  in  his 
life  time  by  the  king's  command  for  weighing  wool  in  the  staple  of 
Newcastle  upon  Tyne,  and  the  said  John  spent  the  sum  named  in  the 
repair  thereof. 

Membrane  27. 

May  27.  To  Henry  Grene  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hold  pleas 
Westminster,  before  the  king.  Order,  if  the  process  before  them  has  been  as 
alleged,  to  proceed  in  the  pleas  between  John  duke  of  Lancastre  and 
Blanche  his  wife  and  William  de  Monte  Acuto  earl  of  Salisbury, 
doing  justice  between  the  parties,  the  allegations  of  the  defendant 
hereinafter  recited  notwithstanding,  saving  always  the  king's  right, 
bearing  themselves  so  circumspectly  and  prudently  herein  that  he 
may  not  be  prejudiced,  and  not  proceeding  to  rendering  of 
judgment  without  advising  the  king ;  as  Thomas  late  earl  of 
Lancastre  on  Monday  before  the  Annunciation  15  Edward  II,  in 
presence  of  the  late  king,  was  by  judgment  of  his  court  adjudged  to 
death  as  a  traitor  and  enemy  of  the  said  king  and  of  the  realm,  and 
was  accordingly  beheaded  ;  and  after  at  the  suit  of  Henry  his  brother 
and  heir,  by  petition  presented  in  parliament  at  Westminster 
assembled  on  the  morrow  of  the  Purification  in  the  first  year  of  the 
present  reign,  alleging  divers  errors  in  the  record  and  in  the  rendering 
of  that  judgment,  the  king  caused  the  said  record  and  judgment  to 
come  before  the  lords  and  commons  in  the  said  parliament,  and  upon 
examination  the  same  was  by  the  parliament  revoked,  annulled  and 
adjudged  erroneous,  and  further  it  was  determined  that  the  said 
Henry  as  brother  and  heir  of  Thomas  should  be  admitted  to  crave 
his  heritage  and  to  have  the  same  by  due  process  ;  and  now  on  behalf 
of  John  duke  of  Lancastre  and  Blanche  his  wife,  cousin  and  heir  of 
the  said  Henry  brother  of  Thomas,  petition  is  made  to  the  king  for 
remedy,  as  the  said  justices  by  colour  of  the  said  allegations  have 
deferred  to  proceed  with  their  suit  against  the  said  earl  by  divers  writs 
in  that  court,  by  virtue  of  the  said  revocation  craving  restitution 
of  the  manors  of  Aldebourne,  Wynterbourne,  Ambresbury  and 
Troubrigge  co.  Wiltes,  Caneford  co.  Dorset,  Henstrugge  and  Cherleton 
CO.  Somerset,  whereof  the  said  Thomas  was  seised  in  his  demesne 
as  of  fee,  and  in  his  life  time  before  the  said  judgment  demised  the 
same  to  John  de  Warenna  then  earl  of  Surrey  for  life  with  reversion 
to  Thomas  and  his  heirs,  such  reversion  being  in  Thomas  at  the 
publication  of  the  said  judgment,  and  which  after  the  death  of  the  said 
earl  of  Surrey  the  defendant  entered  and  now  holds ;  and  the 
said  defendant  in  his  pleading  has  alleged  that  at  the  request  of  the 
prelates,  lords  and  commons  in  parliament  at  Westminster 
assembled  in  the  11th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  promoted  Edward 
his  eldest  son  to  be  duke  of  Cornwall  and  invested  him  with  the 
dukedom  by  girding  on  his  sword,  and  in  the  same  parliament 
invested  (among  others)  William  de  Monte  Acuto  (father  of  the  said 
earl)  with  the  earldom  of  Salisbury  by  girding  on  his  sword,  freely 
granting  to  him  and  his  heirs  the  name  and  honour  {nomen  et  omen) 
of  earl  of  Salisbury,  and  in  order  that  the  said  William  and  his  heirs 
might  support  the  charges  of  that  honour  gave  him  201.  of  rent  of  the 
issues  of  the  county  of  Wiltes  every  year,  granting  likewise  that  the  castle 
and  manor  {sic)  of  Troubrugge,  Aldebourne,  Ambresbury, Wynterbourne, 


39  EDWARD  III.  J 13 


1365-  Membrane  27 — cont. 

Canoford,  Hcnstrugge  and  Clierleton,  hold  for  life  by  John  dc 
\^'arenna  then  earl  of  Surrey  and  Joan  his  wife  with  reversion  to  the 
king,  .should  remain  to  the  said  William  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body 
with  the  knights'  fees  etc.  thereto  belonging  to  tlu^  value  of  FOO  maiks 
a  year  to  be  held  by  the  service  of  one  knight's  fee,  in  part  of  1,000 
marks  of  land  and  rent  whereof  the  king  granted  to  make  provision 
to  him  and  them,  and  the  king  is  seised  of  those  services  by  the  hands 
of  the  defendant,  that  for  better  support  of  the  said  honour  the  king 
granted  to  the  late  earl  of  Salisbuiy  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  his 
body  1,000  marks  every  year  to  be  taken  of  the  issue  of  the  stampage 
of  tin  in  Cornwall,  namely  800  marks  until  the  said  castle  and  manors 
should  come  to  their  hands,  and  the  residue  until  provision  should 
be  made  them  of  other  200  marks  of  land  and  rent,  so  that  when  they 
should  obtain  peaceable  possession  of  the  said  castle  and  manors 
payment  of  800  marks  should  cease,  and  payment  of  the  residue  when 
provision  should  be  made  and  they  should  likewise  obtain  possession 
of  the  said  other  lands,  and  the  same  should  revert  to  the  king  and 
his  heirs,  that  at  the  request  of  the  prelates,  lords  and  commons  in 
another  parliament  at  Westminster  assembled,  reciting  that  charter, 
the  king  further  granted  to,  the  said  earl  of  Salisbury  and  to  his  heirs 
the  reversion  of  the  said  castle  and  manors  with  the  members, 
hamlets  etc.  thereto  pertaining,  which  ought  to  have  reverted  to 
the  king  and  his  heirs  after  the  death  of  the  earl  and  countess  of 
Surrey  by  virtue  of  a  quitclaim  to  the  king  and  his  heirs  made,  after 
the  late  king  caused  the  same  to  be  taken  into  his  hand,  by  Alice 
wife  of  Thomas  sometime  earl  of  Lancastre,  daughter  and  heir  of 
Henry  de  Lacy  earl  of  Lincoln  and  of  Margaret  his  wife  sometime 
countess  of  Salisbury,  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of  Hugh  le  Despenser 
the  younger  to  \\hom  the  late  king  granted  the  reversion  thereof  in 
fee  after  the  death  of  the  said  earl  of  Surrey,  and  by  attornment  of 
the  said  earl  of  Surrey  to  the  said  Hugh,  to  hold  as  fully  as  the  fore- 
fathers of  the  said  Margaret  ever  held  the  same,  and  that  by  another 
charter  the  king  of  his  particular  knowledge  with  the  assent  of  the 
prelates,  earls,  barons  and  others  of  the  council  confirmed  the  gift 
and  grants  aforesaid,  willing  that  the  late  earl  of  Salisbury  and  his 
heirs  should  have  and  hold  the  yearly  rent  of  201.  and  after  the  death 
of  the  earl  and  countess  of  Surrey  the  castle  and  manors  aforesaid 
with  the  members,  hamlets  etc.,  and  further  for  his  greater  security 
granting  that  if  by-  judgment  of  the  king's  court  or  the  court  of  his 
heirs  the  premises  should  after  the  death  of  the  earl  and  countess  of 
Surrey  be  recovered  or  deraigned  or  by  the  king  or  his  heirs  without' 
fault  of  the  earl  of  Salisbury  or  his  heirs  put  out  of  their  hands, 
provision  should  be  made  them  of  other  lands  in  recompense  to  the 
value  of  those  recovered  before  they  should  be  ousted  therefrom  ; 
and  thereupon  the  said  now  earl  of  Salisbury  has  said  that  the  earl 
and  countess  of  Surrey  attorned  to  the  late  earl  for  their  services  for 
the  said  castle  and  manors,  that  the  earl  of  Salisbury  after  died,  by 
whose  death  the  said  reversion  descended  to  him  the  now  earl,  that 
after  the  earl  of  Surrey  died,  and  the  said  Joan  died  solely  seised  of  the 
said  castle  and  manors,  that  after  her  decease  he  sued  writs  of 
diem  clausit  extremum  in  the  said  counties,  and  it  was  found  before 
the  escheators  that  she  died  thereof  seised  and  that  the  reversion 
belonged  to  him  the  now  earl  of  Salisbury,  and  that  so  he  holds  the 
same  of  the  king's  grant  by  virtue  of  his  charters,  craving  of  the  king 
the  aid  which  was  to  him  granted. 

E  8 


114 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365. 

May  26. 

Windsor. 


May  28. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  27 — cont. 

To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Essex  and  Suffolk.  Order  to 
cause  Henry  son  and  heir  of  John  Hehon  of  BumstedheHon  tenant 
in  chief  to  have  seisin  of  the  lands  of  his  said  father  ;  as  the  said 
Henry  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has 
taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [26663.] 

To  William  de  Otteford  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire.  Like  order, 
as  the  said  Henry  has  proved  his  age  before  Roger  de  Wolfreton. 

By  p.s.  [as  aboveJ] 

To  John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Surrey.  Order  not  to  meddle  further 
with  a  message  with  curtilage  in  Suthwerk  at  '  les  Stues '  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Thomas  de  Ughtred  the  elder,  delivering 
up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Thomas  at  his  death  held  no 
lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service, 
but  held  the  premises  of  others  than  the  king. 


Membrane  26. 

Record  made  before  the  king  and  all  his  council  in  the  39th  year 
of  his  reign  touching  certain  accusations  made  to  the  king. 

Memorandum  that  whereas  the  king  lately  appointed  Ralph  de 
Brantyngham  one  of  the  chamberlains  of  the  exchequer  pertaining 
to  the  earldom  of  Albemarle,  now  for  particular  causes  in  the  king's 
hand,  and  Thomas  earl  of  Warrewyk  appointed  Richard  de  Pyryton 
clerk  to  the  office  of  the  other  chamberlain  as  to  him  pertained  of  old 
time,  and  the  said  Ralph  and  Richard  were  sworn  before  the  council 
to  behave  well  and  faithfully  in  those  offices,  acting  lawfully  and 
exercising  the  same  without  favour  or  wrong  to  any  man,  and 
whereas  they  appointed  under  them  the  said  Ralph  one  Ralph  de 
Keste\en  clerk  and  the  said  Richard  one  William  Wenlok  clerk  to 
exercise  the  said  offices  as  well  in  the  absence  as  in  the  presence  of 
the  said  chamberlains,  and  the  said  clerks  made  oath  so  to  do,  in 
the  38th  year  of  the  reign  the  said  chamberlains  and  Ralph  de 
Kesteven,  in  the  absence  of  William  W^enlok,  gave  information  to  the 
king  suggesting  that  Richard  de  Chestrefeld  clerk,  deputy  appointed 
by  John  bishop  of  Worcester  the  treasurer  in  the  receipt  of  the 
exchequer,  at  divers  times  in  divers  years  there  made  undue 
allowances,  payments,  expenses,  receipts  and  liveries,  rasing  the 
rolls  thereof  and  inserting  other  v.riting  without  the  knowledge  of 
the  said  chamberlains  and  their  clerks  to  whose  office  pertained  the  con- 
trol thereof,  -without  whose  presence  (as  they  alleged)  such  payments  etc. 
might  not  nor  of  right  ought  to  be  made,  and  that  the  king  is  deceived 
concerning  1,000Z.  and  more  converted  to  the  use  of  the  said  deputy 
and  of  others  of  his  assent,  offering  to  prove  the  same,  promising  the 
king  that  he  shall  have  so  much  or  more  of  the  said  deputy,  and  for 
the  king's  advantage,  that  such  damage  might  no  longer  be  done, 
craving  that  Richard  de  Chestrefeld  should  be  examined,  should  content 
the  king  of  moneys  improperly  paid  and  delivered,  and  should  be 
punished  for  an  example  to  others  ;  and  they  delivered  to  the  king 
a  roll  containing  the  premises  article  by  article,  affirming  by  their 
oath  taken  before  the  king  that  all  in  the  roll  was  true,  which  roll 
the  king  delivered  to  William  de  Wykham  clerk  of  the  privy  seal, 
John  atte  Lee  steward  of  the  king's  household,  Robert  de  Thorpe, 


39  EDWARD  III.  115 


13(35.  Membrane  26 — cont. 

John  Knyvet  justices,  William  dc  Askeby  chancellor  of  the  exchequer, 
Robert  do  Plcslcyc  baron  of  the  exchequer,  Guy  l^ryan,  John  dc 
Blokleyo,  John  de  Thorpe  warden  of  the  king's  money  and  Gautron 
de  Barde  master  of  the  money  and  to  others  of  the  council  whom 
the  king  by  word  of  mouth  appointed  to  examine  with  deliberation 
the  articles  therein  contained  in  presence  of  the  said  chamberlains  and 
clerks  and  of  Richard  de  Chestrefeld,  to  hear,  set  do^n  in  writing 
and  determine  their  statements  and  declarations  touching  the 
premises  on  the  king's  behalf  and  the  answers  and  justifications  of 
the  said  Richard,  and  to  certify  the  king  tliereof.  Before  whom 
appeared  as  well  the  said  chamberlains  and  Ralph  de  Kesteven  as 
the  said  Richard  do  Chestrefeld,  and  the  cause  was  heard  against 
him,  namely  : 

(1)  That  whereas  100,000  marks  of  the  ransom  of  the  king 
of  France  was  received  in  money,  and  the  receipt  of  the  exchequer 
is  therewith  charged,  917  marks  10s.  was  by  the  said  Richard 
received  over  and  above  that  sum,  for  which  no  answer  is  yet 
made  to  the  king,  nor  has  the  king  information  thereof,  con- 
cealing the  same  from  him  and  appropriating  it  to  the  said 
Richard.  To  this  Richard  says  that  an  agreement  was  made 
between  the  king  and  them  of  France  that  the  king  should 
take  100,000  marks  of  gold  in  French  money  worth  that  sum 
in  English  gold,  as  is  contained  in  an  indenture  produced  and 
in  the  treaty  of  peace,  adding  the  condition  that  they  of  France 
should  pay  20c?.  sterling  for  mintage  of  every  pound  by  weight 
and  be  discharged  of  the  seignorage  thereof  namely  40rf.  for 
every  pound,  that  the  100,000  marks  were  received  according 
to  the  covenant  in  divers  moneys  of  the  gold  of  France  which 
were  not  so  much  worth  in  English  money  but  greatly  deficient, 
that  when  the  seignorage  was  deducted,  the  mintage  received 
and  paid  to  divers  moneyers  to  whom  it  pertained,  the  said 
917  marks  IO5.  was  received  as  parcel  thereof  to  make  up  the 
said  sum  according  to  English  money  for  the  deficiency  and 
mintage  aforesaid,  and  is  included  therein,  and  that  over  and 
above  that  sum  answer  is  made  to  the  king  by  divers  payments 
made  in  French  money  after  receipt  thereof  for  a  price  and 
value  of  1000  marks  and  more  greater  than  was  received ; 
all  which  was  debated  before  those  appointed  as  aforesaid,  and 
proved. 

(2)  That  the  said  Richard  ought  to  have  received  of  the 
king's  moneys  in  the  treasury  at  divers  times  the  following 
sums,  namely  3  March  in  the  37th  year  40  marks,  27  July  in 
the  36th  year  100s.,  12  May  in  the  35th  year,  of  the  collectors 
in  Essex  of  a  moiety  of  the  tenth  and  fifteenth  granted  to  the 
king  in  the  34th  year  in  aid  of  the  war  for  expenses  of  men  at 
arms,  211.  Qs.  lid.,  for  which  he  took  double  allowance  by  one 
tally  levied  and  rased  in  the  rolls  of  the  receipt,  so  that  it  appears 
that  the  king  lost  the  clear  surh  last  mentioned,  and  no  answer 
is  made  for  the  two  others  from  another  source.  William  de 
Wenlok  is  vouched  to  approve  this  article,  not  meddling  in  all 
the  others.  To  this  Richard  answers  that  a  sum  of  591.  13s.  4:d. 
was  assigned  to  John  Wyryng,  John  Anlak  and  other  seamen 
appointed  for  the  war  at  sea  to  be  taken  of  the  said  collectors 
for  their  wages,  and  by  writ  of  the  king's  great  seal  command 


116  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  '  Membrane  26 — cont. 

was  given  to  the  collectors  to  pay  the  same  to  them  or  their 
attorneys,  that  they  made  the  said  Richard  their  attorney  to 
receive  the  same,  which  he  so  did,  and  gave  an  acquittance 
thereof  produced  in  the  exchequer  by  the  collectors  in  their 
discharge  and  acknowledged  by  Richard  to  be  his  deed,  by  which 
Richard  is  to  answer  to  the  said  seamen,  as  is  plain  by  a  record 
in  the  exchequer  ;  and  he  after  paid  great  part  to  certain  of  the 
seamen,  and  was  ready  to  pay  the  residue  amounting  to 
27/.  65.  lid.  if  he  had  been  by  any  of  them  required  so  to  do, 
but  the  plague  then  raging,  and  no  man  demanding  anything 
thereof,  moved  by  conscience  he  delivered  that  sum  into  the 
receipt  aforesaid  until  suit  should  be  made  for  payment,  so  that 
if  none  of  the  said  seamen  should  come  for  payment  the  king 
should  have  the  money  sooner  than  any  other ;  and  after  the 
said  seamen  came  to  the  said  Richard  craving  payment,  and 
he  contented  them,  as  he  was  bound  to  do,  without  having  again 
the  money,  causing  a  tally  contaming  the  said  sum  to  be  levied 
for  his  recompense  of  the  prest  aforesaid  in  lieu  of  payment, 
and  thereby  taking  allowance  for  the  same  in  those  prests,  and 
contenting  the  king  of  the  residue  thereof,  not  admitting  any 
double  allowance  ;  and  this  was  found  before  those  appointed 
by  the  record  of    the  exchequer  and  by  the  proofs. 

(3)  That  when  in  times  of  vacation  the  said  Richard  passed 
to  his  own  church  and  elsewhere  upon  his  own  business,  he 
assigned  and  fabricated  before  the  council  cause  of  going  for  the 
king's  business,  and  on  27  July  in  the  36th  year  received  of  the 
king's  gift  101.  for  his  expenses  in  going  to  the  northern  parts 
on  secret  business  of  the  king,  and  on  17  May  in  the  37th  year 
101.  10s.  for  expenses  towards  the  northern  parts  to  pay  the 
wages  of  seamen,  where  he  never  paid  any  such  wages, 
fraudulently  converting  those  sums  to  his  profit.  To  this  Richard 
says  that  he  is  ready  to  prove  by  John  de  Haddon  the  king's 
Serjeant  at  arms  and  other  lawful  men  at  divers  times  appointed 
to  pay  such  seamen's  wages  and  by  his  own  oath  that  be  was 
sent  by  the  council  to  the  customers  in  the  ports  of  Boston 
and  Kyngeston  upon  Hull  for  speedy  levying  and  delivering  to 
the  said  John  and  others  of  divers  sums  for  such  Avages,  who 
paid  the  same  according  to  their  ability  as  the  council  com- 
manded them  ;  and  this  he  proved  before  those  appointed  by 
examination  and  by  his  oath  and  other  true  informations  and 
reasons  expressly  shewn,  which  the  chamberlains  by  their 
declarations  might  not  lawfully  gainsay. 

(4)  That  whereas  William  de  Eeriby  late  treasurer  of  the 
king's  household  gave  up  at  the  receipt  of  the  exchequer  a  tally 
containing  lOOL  appointed  for  expenses  of  the  household  and 
not  received  by  him,  so  that  the  money  was  of  the  king  and 
none  other,  by  a  rasure  by  him  made  in  the  rolls  of  the  receipt 
the  said  Richard  converted  that  sum  to  another's  use  and  not 
to  the  use  and  profit  of  the  king.  To  this  Richard  says  that 
the  said  1001.  was  by  indenture  (produced,  and  acknowledged 
by  William  de  Manton  as  his  deed)  paid  by  the  treasurer  to 
the  said  William  de  Manton  keeper  of  the  king's  wardrobe  for 
expenses  of  the  household  ;  and  this  was  expressly  found  before 
those  appointed,  and  the  accusation  proved  unjust. 


39  l^^DWARD  III.  117 


t 


1365.  Membrane  26 — cont. 

(5)  That  whereas  WilHani  dc  Farleye  late  treasurer  of  the 
king's  wardrobe  charged  himself  in.  tlie  receipt  of  the  exchequer 
with  200  marks  of  the  issues  and  increase  of  his  office  vvliicli  lie 
knew  he  had  received  and  was  chargeable  towards  the  king,  and 
after  died  in  Aquitaine,  at  the  suit  of  the  said  William's 
executors,  who  rendered  his  account  of  his  office,  the  said 
Kichard  caused  the  rolls  of  the  receipt  to  be  rased,  and 
a  tally  to  be  levied  of  that  sum,  whereby  the  king  lost  200  marks. 
To  this  Richard  says  that  the  said  William  paid  the  money  in 
the  receipt  of  the  exchequer,  wherefore  he  must  needs  have  a 

-  tally  to  sue  for  his  allowance  or  the  money  would  be  paid  again, 
and  lest  that  should  be,  by  judgment  of  the  barons  of  the  ex- 
chequer a  tally  was  levied  in  lieu  of  an  acquittance,  and  was 
noted  of  record,  and  this  was  before  those  appointed  found  to 
be  true  by  the  record. 

(6)  That  whereas  it  was  proved  by  certain  men  of  the  king's 
court  that  a  letter  patent  of  the  king  affecting  John  de  Sharde- 
lowe,  dated  in  the  14tli  year  and  containing  100  marks,  ought  to 
have  been  given  again  to  the  king  for  payment  of  10/.  only,  by 
procurement  of  the  said  Richard  with  the  treasurer  full  payment 
of  the  money  was  made  without  the  knowledge  or  assent  of  the 
chamberlains,  whereby  the  king  lost  85  marks. 

Membrane  25. 

(7)  That  by  information  and  procurement  of  the  said  Richard 
two  tallies  were  levied  upon  the  customers  of  Bristol,  one  for 
Adam  de  Wymondham  containing  150Z.  75.  4c?.,  the  other  for 
William  de  Canynges  containing  69L  without  any  remission 
made  to  the  king  or  profit  taken  to  his  use,  for  which  payments 
great  profit  came  to  the  said  Richard  and  others  of  his  assent, 
which  ought  to  have  come  to  the  king  and  did  not. 

(8)  That  whereas  for  divers  causes  the  king  was  bound  to 
John  de  Coloyne  in  600  marks  and  more,  and  after  his  death 
his  executors  would  have  pardoned  the  king  a  great  sum  to  have 
an  assignment  of  the  residue,  by  suit  made  to  the  said  Richard 
and  others  of  his  assent  the  said  executors  had  full  payment  with- 
out any  remission  made  to  the  king  or  profit  taken  to  his  use, 
for  which  payment  great  profit  came  to  the  said  Richard,  etc. 

To  these  three  articles  Richard  says  that  the  king  owed  the  said 
sums  and  was  bound  to  pay  them,  and  by  divers  writs  which  are  at 
the  receipt  of  the  exchequer  commanded  payment  to  be  made,  by 
virtue  whereof,  and  by  precept  of  the  treasurer  granting  payment 
as  his  duty  was,  the  same  were  paid  in  full,  and  that  by  sufficient 
warrant  and  controlment  of  the  chamberlains  which  is  of  record 
and  cannot  be  gainsaid,  whereby  it  is  clear  that  they  had 
knowledge  thereof,  seeing  that  they  controlled  those  payments  ; 
and  this  was  before  those  appointed  proved  to  be  true. 

(9)  That  on  the  first  day  when  the  bishop  of  Worcester  took 
over  the  office  of  treasurer  a  loan  of  212?.  was  entered  in  the 
rolls  of  the  receipt  of  the  exchequer,  as  if  the  said  bishop  had 
advanced  that  money  to  the  king,  and  the  said  rolls  are  charged 
therewith,  wherefore  by  process  of  time  the  bishop  might  claim 
repayment,  and  so  the  king  would  lose  that  sum,  for   that  he 


118  .  .  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  25 — cont. 

received  none  of  it  to  his  use.  To  this  Richard  says  that  the 
entry  was  inserted  by  assent  of  the  king's  council  more  speedily 
to  recover  so  much  against  the  merchants  of  Malbayn  who  were 
bound  to  the  bishop  in  that  sum,  whereof  the  said  merchants 
had  nothing  of  the  said  receipt,  and  it  could  not  be  turned  to  the 
king's  loss  inasmuch  as  the  merchants  were  answerable  to 
the  king  in  that  sum  by  a  prest  charged  upon  them,  and  the 
king  by  colour  of  the  prest  sued  the  debtors  of  the  said  merchants 
for  the  money  by  process  in  the  exchequer,  and  so  recovered  a 
part  of  it ;  and  that  in  like  manner  used  it  to  be  done  in  times  past, 
and  was  done  for  Ralph  de  Brantyngham  and  -many  more  ;  and 
so  before  those  appomted  it  was  found  by  the  premises  and  by 
other  reasons  set  forth  on  either  side. 

(10)  That  great  numbers  of  customers  of  England,  by  whose 
hands  great  part  of  the  king's  treasure  is  received,  and  the  clerks 
and  officers  in  the  exchequer  of  whom  was  complaint  made  in 
parliament  by  the  commons  of  England,  were  removed  and  ap- 
pointed by  the  said  Richard  and  by  his  procurement  with  the 
treasurer  and  others  of  the  council.  To  this  Richard  says 
that  customers,  clerks  or  officers  of  the  exchequer  were  never 
by  him  removed  or  made,  but  by  the  king  and  all  his  council ; 
and  this  was  by  the  council  witnessed  before  those  appointed, 
and  that  no  damage  thereby  happened  to  the  king,  nor  did 
the  chamberlains  allege  nor  shew  special  damage. 

(11)  That  it  is  notorious  that  Roger  de  Chestrefeld  and  the 
said  Richard  are  brothers,  and  to  write  the  rolls  and  tallies  of  the 
receipt  of  the  exchequer  severally  had  in  their  time  Robert  de 
Derby  their  cousin,  and  another  clerk  under  him  of  their 
country  and  of  their  assent,  who  during  all  the  times  of  the  three 
last  treasurers  every  day  brought  rolls  and  warrants  of  the  great 
seal  and  of  the  privy  seal  to  their  own  dwellings,  Avrote  tallies 
and  rased  rolls  at  their  own  will,  whereby  the  king  has  had  great 
loss  and  may  have  in  future,  the  defaults  of  whom  will  in  times 
to    come    more    fully    appear  ;     for  to  take  rolls  of  record  and 

'  writs  of  warrant  out  of  the  place  of  the  receipt  was  never  before 

heard  of.  To  this  Richard  says  that  from  the  time  he  was 
clerk  of  the  treasurer  until  now  he  has  never  written  any  tallies 
nor  caused  them  to  be  written  at  his  lodging  or  without  the 
place  of  the  receipt,  nor  rased  any  rolls,  that  the  rolls  may  not 
anywise  be  written  when  the  court  is  sitting  (sedente  placea) 
at  Westminster  before  noon  unless  the  clerks  should  be  there 
all  day  long,  which  was  never  heard  of  ;  and  this  was  expressly ' 
proved  before  those  appointed,  as  the  chamberlains  might  not 
gainsay. 

(12)  That  during  all  the  time  of  two  treasurers  the  said 
Richard  has  made  all  great  payments  of  the  king's  moneys  between 
him  and  two  tellers  of  the  receipt  of  the  exchequer,  who  are  of 
his  affinity  and  wear  his  livery,  as  well  to  foreigners  as  to  natives, 
at  the  houses  of  divers  customers  in  the  city  of  London  and  in 
the  chamber  of  the  receipt  with  doors  closed  and  sealed,  without 
view  and  testimony  of  the  chamberlains  who  ought  to  have 
witnessed  and  controlled  every  payment,  by  colour  of  which 
payments  so  made  in  their  absence  great  damage  may  have 
happened  to  the  king.  To  this  Richard  says  that  all  payments 
of  the  king's  moneys  are  and  have  been  made  by  precept  of  the 


39  EDWARD  III.  110 


1365.  Membrane  25 — co7it. 

treasurer  and  by  suflfieient  warrant,  that  sometimes  money  to 
make  payments  must  be  borrowed  of  men  in  the  said  eity  and 
elsewhere,  and  payment  hastily  made  as  well  in  the  said  citv 
as  at  the  treasurer's  lodging  for  divers  the  king's  business  and  for 
taking  journeys  whenever  eommand  is  given  on  the  king's 
behalf  as  well  after  noon  as  before,  and  sometimes  by  night,  or 
otherwise  the  king's  business  would  remain  without  furtherance 
to  his  hurt,  which  may  not  be  derogated  because  of  the 
chamberlains'  absence,  and  that  no  special  damage  is  alleged 
for  that  cause  ;  and  so  before  those  appointed  it  was  found  by 
divers  true  reasons,  which  the  chambeilains  might  not  gainsay. 

(13)  That  the  said  Richard  informed  the  treasurer  that  it 
would  be  derogatory  to  his  office  if  the  chamberlains  should 
meddle  with  him  in  assignments,  payments  or  other  matters  what- 
soever affecting  him,  whereof  they  ought  to  have  had  knowledge 
as  well  as  the  treasurer  or  any  other,  as  appears  by  statutes  and 
other  ancient  books  of  the  exchequer,  by  reason  of  wliich 
information  they  had  not  nor  might  have  such  knowledge,  to 
the  king's  hurt.  To  this  Richard  says  that  the  chamberlains 
would  have  precepts  for  assignments  and  payments  in  the  same 
manner  as  the  treasurer,  and  so  Avould  at  their  will  assign  and 
pay  etc.,  which  pertains  solely  to  the  office  of  treasurer  and  not 
to  their  office,  and  that  the  treasurer  in  his  time  should  not  suffer 
the  chamberlains  so  to  encroach  upon  the  king  to  restrict  the 
treasurer's  office,  inasnmch  as  the  moneys  whereof  payments  are 
made  are  solely  the  king's  and  none  other's,  and  they  ought 
to  be  made  by  the  king  or  treasurer,  and  nought  pertains  to  the 
office  of  chamberlain  but  to  control  etc.,  but  he  should  be 
pleased  that  the  chamberlains  \vould  be  present  at  the  time  of 
assignments  and  payments  to  do  what  pertains  to  their  office, 
and  that  if  it  should  be  otherw  ise  the  king  might  suffer  great  hurt 
for  the  cause  aforesaid  ;  and  so  it  was  found  manifestly  before 
those  appointed. 

(14)  That  whereas  in  the  34tli  year  the  moiety  of  a  tenth  and 
fifteenth  was  granted  by  the  commons  of  England  for  wages 
of  men  at  arms  and  archers  arrayed  in  defence  of  the  realm 
against  the  enemies  who  landed  at  Wynchelse,  and  for  its 
safeguard  by  sea,  it  appears  by  the  rolls  of  the  receipt  of  the 
exchequer  that  of  the  said  moiety  1,000  and  more  is  lacking  (not 
mentioning  whether  1,000Z.,  1,000  marks  or  1,000c?.)  for  which 
answer  is  not  made  to  the  king  by  default  of  the  said  Richard 
to  the  king's  hurt,  craving  that  Richard  should  render  account 
of  the  said  tenth  and  fifteenth.  To  this  Richard  says  that  the 
said  moiety  was  granted  in  aid  of  the  war,  under  a  condition 
that  the  exchequer  (whereof  the  receipt  is  a  part)  should  not 
meddle  therewith,  nor  the  collectors  account  or  answer  there, 
but  for  that  there  was  great  need  of  those  wages,  and  the  said 
moiety  might  not  be  levied,  the  king  chevised  divers  sums  of 
his  own  treasury  and  paid  them  for  divers  counties,  commanding 
divers  collectors  to  pay  again  in  the  treasury  the  sums  so 
chevised,  of  which  sums  the  king  is  contented,  a  small  portion  only 
excepted  whereof  execution  of  the  exchequer  is  being  made  of 
his  w  ill  that  the  king  lose  not  his  money,  as  is  fully  found  by 
record  in  the  exchequer,  that  account  was  taken  of  the  said 
tenth  and  fiiteenth  before  divers  knights  by  the  commons  chosen 


120  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  25 — cont. 

and  before  Henry  de  Greystok  and  Amaury  de  Shirlond  to  tliem 
joined  by  the  council,  to  which  account  the  said  Richard  was 
no  party,  nor  is  he  bound  to  account  for  the  same,  and  that  no 
default  therein  may  attach  to  him  inasmuch  as  executions  for 
the  king's  debts  pertain  not  to  him  nor  to  the  receipt  of  the 
exchequer ;  and  before  those  appointed  this  was  proved  by 
the   record  aforesaid  and  other  reasons  shewn. 

(15)  That  the  said  Richard  caused  a  tally  under  date  of  the 
14th  year  containing  401.  to  be  rased,  and  a  new  writing  put  in 
name  of  Roger  de  Chestrefeld  his  brother,  who  after  had 
allowance  of  that  sum  by  the  said  tally,  and  so  the  king  lost 
40L  To  this  Richard  says  that  it  is  not  to  the  king's  prejudice 
to  change  a  tally  levied  under  one  name  to  another  name,  the 
sum  remaining  the  same  and  the  first  tally  being  given  up,  that 
so  it  was  done  in  times  past  and  is  done  day  by  day,  for  the 
king  may  lose  and  has  lost  nothing,  and  that  the  change  was 
controlled  by  the  chamberlains,  whereto  they  are  parties  and 
should  answer  etc.,  nor  may  they  proceed  against  the  enrolment 
as  being  parties  etc. ;  and  before  those  appointed  this  was  found 
manifest,  and  that  the  king  lost  nothing  nor  might  lose. 

Membrane  24. 

(16)  That  whereas  for  long  time  there  was  great  scarcity  of 
money  in  the  receipt  of  the  exchequer  so  that  for  default  of 
payment  the  king's  household  and  his  works  in  divers  places 
were  in  great  part  lacking,  the  said  Richard  without  warrant 
or  cause  assigned  advanced  divers  sums  of  the  king's  money  to 
divers  merchants  and  others,  namely  to  Henry  de  Brusele  and 
Richard  Thoky  150  marks,  whereof  the  king  is  not  yet  contented 
nor  ever  will  be,  but  is  to  his  great  hurt  put  to  action  by 
exchequer  summons  for  the  same.  To  this  Richard  says  that  he 
never  advanced  a  penny  of  the  king's  to  the  said  Henry  and 
Richard  or  to  any  other,  but  by  precept  and  grant  of  the 
treasurer  a  tally  was  levied  to  them  of  the  sum  named,  and  a 
prest  put  on  them  to  repay  the  same  to  the  king  on  a  set  day  if 
they  should  carry  wool  to  parts  over  sea  the  custom  and  subsidy 
whereof  should  amount  to  so  much,  which  sum  the  king  respited 
for  a  greater  sum  by  him  due  to  the  said  Henry,  which  is 
expressly  found  by  process  in  the  exchequer,  so  that  the  king  has 
lost  and  may  lose  nothing  ;  and  this  was  by  the  said  record  etc, 
distinctly  found  before  those  appointed. 

(17)  That  the  said  Richard  without  warrant  or  cause  assigned 
advanced  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Southwerk  88  marks  of  the 

'  king's  money  paid  from  the  receipt  of  the  exchequer,  of  which 

the  king  is  not  yet  contented,  nor  ever  will  be  without  the  ruin 
of  the  said  house.  To  this  Richard  says  that  he  never  advanced 
a  penny  of  the  king's  money  to  the  said  prior,  but  that  the  said 
prest  was  made  and  entered  at  the  request  of  the  bishop  of 
Winchester  for  more  speedy  recovery  of  divers  debts  due  to 
the  said  prior  by  divers  his  debtors  in  the  city  of  London,  that 
he  received  nothing  of  the  king  in  the  said  receipt,  and  it 
might  not  be  turned  to  the  king's  hurt  inasmuch  as  by  the  said 
prest  the  prior  is  to  answer  to  the  king,  and  that  in  like  manner 


39  EDWARD  111.  121 


1365.  Membrane  24 — cont. 

it  used  to  bo  clone  in  tiincs  past,  and  was  done  for  Ral})h  de 
Jiranlynghani  ;  and  so  before  those  appointed  it  was  found 
by  divers  reasons  set  forth  on  either  side. 

(18)  That  tlie  said  Riehard,  going  to  survey  the  king's  works 
in  Risshedon  castle,  gave  to  divers  workmen  llOs.,  for  whieli  he 
after  accounted  in  tlie  recei^Jt  of  tlie  cxeiiequer,  and  received 
that  sum  by  special  precept  of  tiie  king,  no  warrant  being 
produced  or  found.  To  this  Richard  says  tliat  the  \\ages  of  tlie 
said  \\orkmen  were  in  arrear  throughout  a  time  of  vacation, 
wherefore  they  would  not  abide  upon  the  works  there  but  were 
minded  to  withdraw,  that  the  said  money  was  given  them 
by  precept  of  the  treasurer,  as  William  de  Wykliam  well  knew, 
lest  they  should  withdraw  and  the  works  be  hindered,  that  so 
used  it  to  be  done  because  of  putting  in  writing  {propter 
abbreviacionem)  the  men's  wages,  and  that  it  was  not  to  the 
king's  hurt  but  to  his  advantage  ;  and  tliis  was  proved  true 
before  those  appointed. 

(19)  That  John  de  Rouceby  says  he  is  charged  in  the  receipt 
of  the  exchequer  with  30^.  which  he  never  received,  and  that 
this  is  because  all  payments  were  by  the  said  Richard  made 
without  knowledge  of  the  chamberlains  and  not  under  their  super- 
vision, so  that  they  might  not  nor  can  witness  whether  that  sum 
was  paid  or  no,  whence  great  scandal  of  the  court  may  arise. 
To  this  Richard  says  that  the  said  John  accounted  for  the  said 
money,  charging  himself  therewith  of  his  own  accord,  and 
delivering  the  particulars  to  the  court,  and  never  made  complaint, 
so  that  by  these  particulars  being  true  it  appears  that  he 
is  lawfully  charged  ;    and  so  it  was  found  before  those  appointed. 

(20)  That  whereas  the  executors  of  John  de  Middeiton,  late 
keeper  of  victuals  at  Calais,  accounted  at  the  exchequer  and 
went  away  quit,  the  said  executors  were  after  summoned  anew, 
and  charged  with  500  marks  and  more,  whereof  no  man  could 
answer  nor  give  information  but  only  the  said  Richard  for  that 
all  payments  were  by  himself  made,  and  they  contented  the 
king  thereof,  to  their  hurt  and  the  scandal  of  the  king.  To  this 
Richard  says  that  the  executors  accounted  for  the  sums  where- 
with they  charged  themselves  and  went  away  quit,  that  they 
ought  to  have  charged  themselves  with  the  said  500  marks  and 
did  not,  for  that  before  his  death  the  said  John  received  that 
sum  and  in  his  life  time  did  not  charge  himself  therewith  in  his 
account,  nor  did  they  after  his  death,  but  concealed  the  same, 
wherefore  they  were  summoned  the  second  time  to  answer  and 
content  the  king,  or  ta  shew  cause  etc.,  that  the  chamberlains 
controlled  the  said  sum,  and  approved  the  charge  as  lawful, 
and  this  they  have  acknowledged  before  those  appointed,  so 
that  it  is  clear  that  they  had  kno^^'ledge  thereof,  and  that  no 
wrongdoing  may  be  imputed  to  him  for  this  cause  inasmuch  as 
the  king  is  thereof  contented  for  that  the  executors  might  shew 
nothing  for  their  discharge  ;  and  so  before  those  appointed  it 
was  found  by  the  record  and  otherwise. 

(21)  That  whereas  the  king  of  his  favour,  and  for  discharge 
of  his  father's  soul  who  was  bound  in  a  certain  sum  to  John  de 
Weston,  ordered  that  the  said  sum  should  be  paid,  the  said  John 
might  never  be  contented  until  he  gave  the  said  Richard  a  jewel 
price  101. ,  in  contempt  of  the  king's  command  and  to  the  said 


122  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  24 — cont. 

John's  hurt.  To  this  Richard  says  that  he  received  nothing 
of  the  said  John  before  he  was  contented  of  the  debt,  and  after 
of  his  own  free  v,[\\  John  gave  him  a  ring  not  worth  205.,  and 
called  the  said  John  to  witness  ;  and  this  was  found  by  lawful 
proofs  before  those  appointed. 

(22)  That  the  said  Richard  received  of  William  de  Wenlok, 
clerk  of  the  receipt  of  the  exchequer,  a  jewel  price  24  marks  to 
suffer  him  to  go  in  his  company  into  the  king's  presence  at 
Westminster  with  a  bag  A^ith  the  money  reserved  for  the  king's 
chamber,  to  the  scandal  of  the  king.  And  the  said  William, 
being  present  and  examined  by  those  appointed,  acknowledged 
that  it  was  a  girdle  and  not  ^^•orth  605.,  and  that  he  gave  it  not 
for  any  matter  affecting  his  office  or  the  king,  but  for  divers 
other  friendly  acts  which  the  said  Richard  had  done  him  divers 
times  before  ;    and  this  the  chamberlains  might  not  gainsay. 

(23)  That  whereas  a  yearly  sum  is  assigned  to  the  dean  and 
canons  of  the  college  of  the  chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within 
Westminster  palace,  thereof  the  said  Richard  is  canon,  the 
said  Richard  at  one  time  received  10  marks  of  his  fellow  canons 
and  at  another  time  IOO5.  to  aid  them  concerning  the  payment 
of  the  said  sum,  which  payment  notwithstanding  he  withdrew 
and  confounded.  To  this  Richard  says  that  he  is  canon  of  the 
said  chapel  and  partaker  in  the  said  yearly  sum,  and  received 
the  money  above  mentioned  as  well  of  his  purparty  thereof  as 
of  the  gift  of  the  dean  and  canons  by  their  free  \vi]\  without  brokage 
of  any  kind,  and  not  for  the  cause  aforesaid,  and  that  this  was 
not  to  the  prejudice  or  scandal  of  the  king  ;  and  so  it  was  proved 
before  those  appointed. 

(24)  That  the  said  Richard,  for  making  divers  payments  and 
assignments  as  well  to  vintners  as  to  other  merchants,  received 
of  their  gift  divers  tuns  and  pipes  of  wine,  namely  of  Walter 
Forester,  John  Michel  of  London,  John  Wytegod  of  Suthampton 
and  many  more,  of  which  he  sold  great  part  to  the  king's  butler 
{hotellarius),  craving  that  the  said  butler  William  de  Strete, 
William  Glendale  clerk  of  the  great  wardrobe,  Edmund  Rose 
and  other  foreign  officers  may  be  examined  upon  oath  of  their  suit 
in  this  behalf,  how  much  they  gave  for  their  said  assignments 
and  payments  ;  and  that  these  articles  upon  their  oath  made  to 
the  king  do  not  contain  a  sixth  part  of  the  concealments,  fi'auds 
and  deceptions  which  the  said  Richard  and  Robert  de  Derby 
his  cousin  have  committed  in  the  exchequer  and  in  the  king's 
receipt.  And  tlie  said  butler  and  many  other  of  the  officers 
aforesaid  were  examined  touching  the  premises,  and  by  their 
examination  and  divers  other  proofs  and  justifications  of  the 
said  Richard  before  those  appointed  as  aforesaid  it  was  found 
that  this  accusation  and  all  the  other  above  recited  are  false, 
and  ought  not  to  have  been  published. 

Membrane  23. 

And  when  all  and  singular  the  premises,  as  well  accusations  as 
ansM  ers,  were  heard,  tried  and  examined  before  those  appointed,  and 
it  was  found  that  the  king  has  lost  nothing  nor  might  have  lost  by 
the  allowances,  payments,  expenses,  receipts,  liveries,  rasures  or 
writings  alleged,  nor  was  deceived,  defrauded  or  damaged  in  any 


39  EDWARD  lit.  123 


13()5.  Membrane  23 — cont. 

thing  in  the  articles  contained,  tliosc  appointed  testified  as  was  first 
and  chielly  coniinanded  them  by  the  king  and  recorded  before  the 
king  all  and  singidar  the  premises,  informing  him  concerning  the 
accusations,  answers  and  proofs  made  on  either  side,  and  that  he 
had  taken  or  miglit  have  taken  no  hurt,  but  that  the  said  Ricliard 
was  not  guilty  of  any  deception,  deliverhig  the  roll  again  to  the  king 
that  he  might  set  forth  and  do  his  will  thereof.  And  the  said 
chamberlains  and  Ralph  being  thereof  warned,  doubting  of  the  king's 
wrath  and  furtiier  declaring  their  malice,  anger  and  envy  which  they 
had  towards  the  said  Richard  without  cause,  alleged  the  premises 
to  the  king  a  second  time,  and  that  favour  was  shewn  to  the  said 
Richard  herein,  suggesting  fraud,  favour  and  wrongdoing  in  some 
of  the  council,  and  craving  that  the  premises  should  be  laid  before 
lawful  and  discreet  hearers  other  than  of  the  affinity  of  the  said 
Richard  to  be  by  the  king  appointed  to  hear  and  determine  the 
premises  in  the  presence  and  by  testimony  of  the  chamberlains,  and 
to  compel  the  said  Ricliard  to  account  therein  ;  and  the  king 
considering  their  good  will  ordered  them  to  shew  him  in  writing  what 
should  be  done,  and  what  remedy  or  correction  might  be  applied 
concerning  the  articles  to  his  honour  and  profit ;  and  hereupon  they 
delivered  to  the  king  of  their  will  and  information  a  roll  containing 
that  it  appeared  to  them  that  the  said  Richard  and  Robert  de  Derby 
should  be  removed  from  their  offices,  that  lawful  and  discreet 
hearers  should  be  appointed  to  hear  and  determine  the  premises,  that 
the  said  Richard  should  account  for  all  and  singular  the  sums  above 
mentioned,  the  records  of  those  appointed,  and  the  answers, 
declarations,  allegations,  proofs  and  justifications  aforesaid  notwith- 
standing, that  he  should  pay  the  same  again  to  the  king,  that  the 
customers,  clerks  and  accountants  newly  put  to  serve  the  king  (in 
whom  no  default  is  found)  should  be  removed  and  others  put  in  their 
room,  that  the  treasurer  should  not  make  payments,  receipts,  liveries, 
assignments  or  aught  else  aft'ecting  his  office  without  the  assent,  view, 
will  and  presence  of  the  chamberlains,  that  no  writing  should  be 
done  outside  the  receipt  of  the  exchequer,  and  that  the  said  Richard 
and  others  of  his  counsel  should  be  punished,  so  condemning  him 
and  others  who  have  no  knowledge  thereof  before  the  king  without 
fault  being  found  in  them,  as  was  expressly  found  before  those 
appointed  and  is  by  them  recorded,  and  informing  the  king  to  the  end 
that  wrong  and  vengeance  should  be  done  upon  his  servants  without 
cause,  in  breach  of  their  oaths.  And  having  heard  and  understood 
the  premises  the  king,  willing  that  the  truth  should  be  found,  sent 
before  all  the  council  the  said  roll  and  all  other  rolls  of  accusations 
and  replies  to  him  delivered  by  the  chamberlains  namely  before 
Simon  bishop  of  Ely  the  chancellor,  John  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells 
the  treasurer,  William  bishop  of  W^inchester,  Simon  bishop  of  London, 
John  duke  of  Lancastre,  Richard  earl  of  Arundell,  Robert  earl  of 
Suffolk,  Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford,  William  de  Monte 
Acuto  earl  of  Salisbury,  William  de  Wykeham,  Guy  Bryan,  John 
atte  Lee,  William  de  Skip^^'yth,  Henry  de  Grene,  Robert  de  Thorpe, 
John  Knyvet  justices  and  others,  straitly  commanding  them  to  take 
information  concerning  the  said  rolls,  and  diligently  to  examine  and 
determine  the  articles  therein  contained  in  presence  of  the  said  Richard 
and  of  the  chamberlains,  and  to  certify  him  of  what  they  should 
find.  And  before  the  whole  council  the  said  articles  were  read  one 
by    one    in    their    presence,    the    accusations,    answers,    proofs    and 


124  CALENDAR    01*   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  23 — coni. 

justifications  heard,  and  it  was  found  and  approved  before  the  whole 

council,   as  previously  before  those  appointed,  that  the  accusations 

were  false  and  ought  not  to  have  been  published  in  all  and  singular 

the  articles  thereof,  that  the  king  was  not  deceived  or  defrauded  in 

anything  nor  took  hurt  therein,  and  that  the  said  Richard  was  not 

guilty  of  any  default ;    and  the  chamberlains  thereupon  being  asked 

whether  they  had  more  to  say,  or  more  accusation  to  make  against 

the  said  Richard,  or  more  to  declare  in  the  premises,  say  they  have  not. 

And  all  and  singular  the  premises  being  by  the  council  recorded  for 

the    king,    and    full    information    thereof    given    to    him,    the    king 

knowing  and  ackno\Aiedging  that  the  said  Richard  is  not  guilty  of 

the   said   false   accusations,    and   holding   him   therein  justified,   the 

premises  being  fully  determined,  and  having  respect  to  the  malice, 

falsehood  and  envy  of  the  said  chamberlains  and  their  said  clerks  and 

to   the   false   accusations   and   surmises   whereof   they   informed   the 

king  contrary  to  their  oaths  to  the  damage  of  the  said  Richard  and 

of  many  more,  it  was  in  full  council  determined  by  the  king  and  the 

whole  council  that  the  said  Richard  shall  go  without  a  day  quit  of 

all  the  articles  aforesaid,  and  that  the  said  chamberlains  Ralph  de 

Brantyngham  and  Richard  de  Piryton  and  all  their  clerks  whom  they 

have  set  under  them  to  serve  the  king  as  well  in  the  exchequer  as  in 

the  receipt  be  removed  and  thrust  out  from  their  offices  ;    and  the 

said  Richard  de  Piryton  being  so  removed  and  his  office  void,  lest  the 

business  of  the  king  and  people  should  be  delayed  for  lack  of  one 

occupying  the  same,  the  king  by  letters  patent  under  the  great  seal 

appointed  in  his   stead  John  de  Newenham  clerk  during  pleasure 

and  until  further  [order],  and  instead  of  Ralph  de  Brantyngham  he 

likewise   appointed   William   de  Mulslio  clerk,   and  nevertheless   for 

particular  causes,  for  the    wrongdoings,    falsehoods    and    accusations 

aforesaid  and  divers  other  defaults  committed  in  those  offices  in  the 

times    of   the    said   late   chamberlains   whereof   he    is   not   yet   fully 

informed,  and  for  that  it  is  contained  in  the  statute  made  in  a  parliament 

holden  at  Westminster  in  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  in  the  36th 

year  {sic),  that  all  who  by  malice  should  make  surmises  to  the  king, 

their  surmises  should  be  sent  before  the  chancellor,  the  treasurer  and 

the  great  council,  that  they  should  there  find  security  to  prosecute  the 

same,  and  that  if  the  same  should  be  found  false  or  bad  those  making 

them  should  incur  the  same  pain  as  the  accused  would  have  if  convicted, 

the  king   by  John  atte  Lee  his  steward  gave  order  to   Ralph  de 

Brantyngham  and  Richard  de  Piriton  forbidding  them  to  withdraw 

from  the  city  of  London  until  the  king  should  do,  determine  and  order 

what  should  to  him  seem  good  in  the  premises,  or  until  further  order. 

And  upon  suit  to  the  king  and  council  made  by  the  said  chamberlains 

for  licence  to  withdraw  until  a  set  time,  a  day  was  given  them  by 

the  king  and  council  under  the  said  prohibition  fifteen  days  from 

Easter  in  the  39th  year.    And  within  the  said  Easter  term,  namely 

on  27  May,  the  whole  council  being  gathered  together  by  order  of  the 

king  to  debate  and  adjudge  the  premises  not  yet  debated,  the  said 

Ralph  and  Richard  de  Piryton  did  not  appear,  and  the  said  Richard 

de  Chestrefeld  appeared,  and  being  asked  if  he  will  pursue  against 

his  accusers  according  to  the  statute,  answered  that  it  is  sufficient 

for  him  that  by  God's  gift  the  king  and  council  to  whom  he  was 

defamed  hold  him  justified,  and  he  gives  thanks  to  the  king  and  his 

most  wise  council  for  their  just  proceeding  in  the  premises,  not  willing 

to  pursue  to  vengeance  for  recovery  of  damages  according  to  the 


39  EDWARD  ITI.  125 


1305.  Membrane  23 — cont. 

statute.  And  the  premises  being  viewed,  read  and  eAdmincd,  and 
a  statute  made  at  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary  in  tlie  38tli  year  being 
also  viewed,  \\ herein  is  contained  {inter  alia)  that  if  any  man  make 
a  plaint  to  the  king  and  may  not  by  the  process  in  the  said  first  statute 
Hmited  prove  his  intent  against  the  defi-ndant,  he  should  be  com- 
mitted to  prison  there  to  abide  until  he  content  the  defendant 
of  his  dan\ages  and  for  the  scandal  thereby  endured,  and  should  after 
make  fine  and  ransom  to  the  king  in  that  behalf,  and  that  the  clause 
in  the  first  statute  as  to  incurring  the  same  pain  as  the  accused  should 
be  removed  ;  and  after  fuller  deliberation  had  touching  the  premises, 
it  was  among  the  council  determined  that  the  said  accusers  Ralph  de 
Brantyngham,  Richard  de  Piryton  and  Ralph  de  Kesteven  be  taken 
and  committed  to  the  king's  "prison,  there  to  abide  until  they  shall 
make  to  the  king  fine  and  ransom  according  to  the  statute,  saving 
to  the  king  his  action  for  defaults  by  the  said  chamberlains  made  in 
their  offices  whereof  he  is  not  yet  informed,  and  as  to  William  de 
\^'enlok,  who  was  not  in  England  when  Richard  de  Piryton,  Ralph 
and  Ralph  laid  their  accusations  before  the  king,  nor  presented 
.himself  to  prove  or  pursue  them,  the  second  article  excepted,  but 
reckoned  them  as  frivolous,  fictitious,  and  of  malice  set  forth,  no 
process  is  made  to  punish  him,  but  it  is  granted  by  the  king  and 
council  that  he  shall  go  thereof  quit. 

Membrane  22. 

June  18.         To  William  de  Otteford  eschcator  in  Cambridgeshire  and  Bedford 

Westminster,  sliire.     Order  to  cause  John  son  and  heir  of  John  Trayly  tenant  in 

chief  to  have  seisin  of  the  lands  of  his  said  father  ;    as  he  has  proved 

his  age  before  the  escheat  or,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and 

fealty.  By  p.s.  [26671.] 

June  28.         To  Nicholas  de  Neuton  clerk.     Whereas  lately  upon  information 
Westminstor.  given  by  til?  said  Nicholas  that  the  king  recovered  in  his  court  before 
his  justices  of  the  Bench  by  judgment  of  the  said  court  against  the  bishop 
of   Exeter,  and  against   Master  Thomas  David  pretending  that  the 
archdeaconry  of  Cornwall  was  his  due  by  papal  authority,  his  presenta- 
tion to  the  said  archdeaconry,  lately  void  and  in  his  gift  by  reason 
of  the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric   of  Exeter  which  were    in    his 
hand,  and  thereto  collated  William  de  Cusancia  his  clerk,  and  that 
he  so  occupying  the  archdeaconry  of  the  king's  collation  exchanged 
the  same  with  the  said  Nicholas  for  the  church  of  Marteleye  and 
the  prebend  of  Trallan  in  the  collegiate  church  of  Aberguilly  which 
Nicholas  then  held,  that  the  said  Thomas  without  process  of  law  by 
his  own  daring  and  by  aid  of  his  upholders  thrust  him  out  from  the 
said  archdeaconry  though  he  had  an  estate  therein  by  reason  of  the 
said  exchange,  and  that  the  said  Thomas  being  dead  Master  Alexander 
de  Neville  succeeded  by  collation  of  the  pope  to  the    right   w^hich 
Thomas  had  to  the  said  archdeaconry,  and  occupied  the  same,  though 
this  ought  not  to  be  nor  might  be  in  despite  of  the   said   exchange 
and    the     things     which     followed    after,   by    lay   power   hindering 
Nicholas  from  enjoying  possession  thereof,  and  unlawfully  taking  the 
fruits,   rents  and  proventions  thereof  from   the   time   aforesaid,   the 
king  straitly  forbade  the  said  Alexander  and  all  others  under  pain 
of  forfeiture  to  attempt  or  cause  to  be  attempted  aught  that  might 
tend  to  prejudice  the  king  or  his  right  or  to  impair  the  force  of  the 


126  Ci^LENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  22 — cont. 

said  judgment  by  any  authority  whatsoever,  and  further  ordered 
Alexander  to  suffer  the  said  Nicholas  without  let  to  enter  again  and 
enjoy  possession  of  the  said  archdeaconry  in  the  king's  said  right  as 
lawful  was,  causing  all  fruits,  rents  and  profits  thereof  by  him  or  his 
taken  in  the  mean  time  to  be  restored  to  Nicholas  ;  but  after 
whereas  it  was  laid  before  the  king  on  behalf  of  the  said  Alexander 
that,  while  a  suit  was  pending  between  Nicholas  and  Alexander  in 
the  court  of  Rome  touching  the  right  and  possession  of  the  said  arch- 
deaconry, Nicholas  by  his  proctor  having  and  shewing  full  power  in  that 
behalf  simply,  absolutely,  judicially  and  of  his  free  will  renounced  the 
right  which  lie  claimed  therein,  that  the  dean  and  chapter  of  St.  Peter 
Exeter  in  full  parliament  appearing  touching  the  unlawful  disturbance 
upon  them  ofttimes  brought  (as  they  alleged)  by  the  king's  letters 
by  means  of  the  procurements  of  Nicholas,  reasons  and  allegations 
were  in  the  said  parliament  heard  on  either  side,  and  it  was  determined 
that  the  king's  right  in  the  said  presentation  was  fully  executed  in 
the  person  of  the  said  William,  for  the  reason  especially  that 
he  peaceably  possessed  until  his  death  the  benefices  which  he  held 
by  the  exchange  with  Nicholas  made,  nor  might  he  have  had  a  more 
enduring  right  in  the  archdeaconry,  and  that  Nicholas  renounced 
the  archdeaconry,  that  then  it  was  finally  declared  and  decreed  that 
the  king  ought  not  furtlier  to  interfere  therein,  and  the  proceedings 
begun  should  be  altogether  stayed,  prohibitions  and  attachments 
by  the  king  made  herein  being  utterly  revoked,  as  by  the  instrument 
of  renunciation  produced  in  chancery  by  the  said  Alexander  and  the 
petition  in  parliament  thereon  endorsed  is  made  clear ;  the  king  duly 
weighing  all  and  singular  the  premises,  and  the  process  taken  by  his 
•  court  in  favour  of  Nicholas  albeit  surreptitiously  without  calling  upon 
nor  hearing  the  party  of  Alexander,  willing  that  the  thingsas  justly  as 
wisely  ordered,  declared  and  decreed  in  parliament  concerning  the  matter 
should  have  lasting  force,  and  lending  ear  to  the  prayers  of  Alexander, 
by  his  royal  authority  and  by  the  authority  of  parliament  hereby 
revokes,  quashes  and  annuls  all  and  singular  his  letters  of  prohibition 
at  the  suit  of  Nicholas  addressed  as  well  to  the  said  Alexander  as  to 
other  persons  whatsoever  for  the  reasons  aforesaid,  the  letters  of 
presentation  to  Nicholas  made,  and  the  proceedings  whatsoever 
following  thereupon,  not  willing  that  any  prejudice  should  thereby 
arise  to  the  right,  title  or  possession  of  the  said  archdeaconry  which 
by  collation  of  the  pope  the  said  Alexander  claims,  but  that  he  should 
remain  in  the  estate  he  was  before  the  said  letters  and  proceedings, 
such  letters  and  proceedings  notwithstanding  :  order  therefore 
henceforth  not  to  make  use  of  the  letters  or  proceedings  aforesaid 
contrary  to  the  form  of  the  said  ordinance,  declaration  and  decree 
.  of  parliament,  or  of  the  king's  revocation,  annulment  and  will,  but 
to  sue  in  the  ecclesiastical  court  as  he  shall  think  best  for  his  just 
rights  herein,  if  he  believes  that  any  such  there  be.  By  K.  and  C. 
Et  erat  patens 

June  28.  To  Master  Alexander  de  Neville  the  king's  clerk.  Whereas  lately 
Westminster,  upon  information  given  on  behalf  of  Nicholas  de  Neuton  clerk  etc. 
{as  above) ;  the  king  signifies  to  the  said  Alexander  that  he  may  freely 
with  impunity  sue  in  an  ecclesiastical  court  in  the  realm,  wherever 
he  shall  think  best,  for  the  right  which  he  holds  in  the  said 
archdeaconry.  By  K. 

Et  erat  patens. 


39  KDWARD  III.  127 


1335^  MEMnRANE  21, 

Juno  15.  To  the  slicrifT  of  Norhampton.  Order  to  cause  Clausus  son  and 
Westminstor.  licir  of  Tlioinas  Lovct  to  liave  seisin  of  a  messuage  and  the  moiety 
of  one  virgate  of  land  in  Ryssheton  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  takiMi  by  the  escheator,  that  tAvo  messuages  and  the 
said  moiety,  held  by  William  atte  IJrigge  of  Ryssheton  outlawed  for 
felony  it  is  said,  have  been  in  the  king's  hand  a  year  and  a  day,  that 
the  said  \Villiam  lield  a  messuage  and  the  said  moiety  of  the  said 
Clausus,  that  they  are  yet  in  the  king's  hand,  and  tliat  Richard  de 
Wydeville  the  escheator  had  the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste,  and 
ought  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  same. 

June  15.  To  Juliana  countess  of  Huntyngdon.  Order  to  deliver  to  John 
Westminster,  son  and  heir  of  Lawrence  de  Hastynges  earl  of  Pembroke,  or  to  his 
attorney,  all  lands  of  the  heritage  of  the  said  John  which  she  holds 
to  farm'  of  the  king's  grant  by  reason  of  his  nonage,  together  with  the 
issues  thereof  taken  from  20  December  last,  not  meddling  further 
therewith  ;  as  on  that  day  the  king  of  his  favour  granted  to  the  said 
John  by  letters  patent  the  wardship  of  his  said  father's  lands  in 
England  and*  Wales  which  came  to  the  king's  hands  by  reason  of 
his  nonage,  in  wliose  hands  soever  they  should  be,  to  hold  until  his 
lawful  age,  rendering  yearly  at  the  exchequer  the  farms  rendered 
by  the  farmers  thereof.  The  king's  will  is  that  the  said  countess 
be  discharged  of  her  said  farm  from  the  above  date.  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

Agnes  countess  of  Pembroke. 

Edward  de  Sancto  Johanna. 

Walter  de  Perlee. 

Adam  Fraunceys. 

William  Daubeneye. 

John  Malyns. 

To  John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Kent.  Order  to  cause  all  lands 
in  that  bailiwick  which  were  of  the  said  earl  of  Pembroke  at  his  death 
and  arc*  held  at  farm  by  Juliana  countess  of  Huntyngdon  of  the 
king's  grant,  to  be  seized  into  the  king's  hand  and  delivered  to  the 
said  John  or  his  attorney  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent.  ByK. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

John    de     Wyndesore     escheator    in    Warwickshire,  concerning 

lands  of  that  herita.ge  held  to  farm  by  the  said  countess. 
John   de     Bekyngton    escheator   in   Somerset,  concerning  lands 

held  to  farm  by  Walter  de  Perlee. 
William    de    Otteford    escheator    in     Bedfordshire,     concerning 
lands  held  to  farm  by  William  Daubeneye  and  John  Molyns. 

June  20.         To  the  keeper  of  Wliichewode  forest  for  the  time  being.     Order 

Westminster,  to  cause  the  prior  and  convent  of  Coldnorton  and  their  successors 

every  year  at  the  feast  of   St.  Peter's  Chains  to  have  at  the  king's 

cost  one  buck  in  that  forest,  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent 

of  15  September  last. 

Et  erat  patens. 

June  26.         To  Richard  de  Wydeville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.     Order 

Westminster,  to  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage 

in  Daventre  which  was  of  William  Ryms  of  Daventre,  delivering  to 

Walter  vicar  of  Staverton,  John  de  Lychebarowe  and  John  Waundel 


128  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane    21 — cont. 

of  Daventre  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  lately  ordered 
the  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  the  same 
was  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  he  returned  that  he  so 
took  it  for  that  he  found  by  inquisition,  before  him  taken  of  his  office, 
that  the  said  WilHam  Avithout  obtaining  the  king's  licence  aUened 
the  said  messuage  to  the  said  Walter,  John  and  John  to  hold  and 
keep  to  the  use  of  the  prior  and  convent  of  Daventre  and  to  be  appro- 
priated to  that  priory  ;  and  now  the  said  Walter,  John  and  John 
have  informed  the  king  that  they  acquired  the  same  to  them  and 
their  heirs  to  their  ovau  use  and  not  to  the  use  aforesaid,  without 
that  that  the  said  prior  and  convent  have  ever  meddled  therewith 
or  by  virtue  of  that  acquisition  taken  any  profit  thereof,  praying 
for  removal  of  the  king's  hand  ;  and  the  king  considers  the  said 
return  insufficient. 

June  22.         To  Richard  la  Vache  constable  of  the  To\Aer  of  London,  or  to  his 

Westminster,  lieutenant.     Order  of  the  king's  favour  to  set  free  John  de  W^esenham 

and  Henry  de  Brysele,  A\hom  for  particular  causes  the  king  lately 

commanded  to  be  taken  and  imprisoned  m  the  Tower.         "   By  K. 

June  30.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Whereas  on 
Westminster.  1  July  in  the  35th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  letters  patent 
appointed  Richard  de  Stafford  then  seneschal  of  Gascony,  John  de 
Chaundos  baron  of  St.  Sauveur  le  Viscounte,  Stephen  Cusyngton, 
Nigel  Lovyng,  Richard  de  Totesham,  Adam  de  Hoghton  and 
William  de  Felton  to  crave,  receive  of  the  king  of  France  and  hold 
again  in  the  king's  name  all  counties,  cities,  castles,  towns,  lands  and 
places  which  should  be  to  him  delivered  according  to  the  form  of  the 
peace,  to  cause  the  issues,  rents,  revenues  and  emoluments  what- 
soever thereof  arising  to  be  levied  to  the  king's  use  as  they  used  to 
be,  to  take  in  the  king's  name  oaths  of  fealty  of  nobles  and  others  of 
the  said  counties  etc.  as  was  wont  and  of  right  ought  to  be  done, 
and  to  depute  and  establish  therein  justiq,es,  provosts,  bailiffs 
ministers  and  officers  whatsoever,  remove  them  when  need  be,  and 
appoint  others  in  their  room  ;  and  whereas  now  on  behalf  of  the 
said  Richard  de  Totesham  the  king  has  learned  that  though  after 
obtaining  possession  thereof  he  immediately  delivered  the  counties 
etc.  so  received  in  the  king's  name  to  stewards,  provosts  and  other 
officers  and  ministers  by  him  deputed  by  virtue  of  the  said  letters 
patent  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  issues  and  emoluments  thereof 
by  the  hands  of  the  constable  of  Bourdeaux  for  the  time  being, 
without  that  that  he  the  said  Richard  thereof  took  any  issues  or 
profits,  the  treasurer  and  barons  are  purposing  to  charge  him  to 
account  for  the  issues  etc.  of  the  said  counties  etc.  from  the  time  they 
were  delivered  over  by  the  king  of  France  as  if  he  had  received  the 
same,  and  are  causing  him  to  be  distrained  and  troubled  for  that 
cause,  wherefore  he  has  prayed  for  remedy  :  order,  if  by  oath  of 
the  said  Richard  or  of  his  attorney  they  may  be  assured  that  he  so 
delivered  all  counties  etc.  by  him  received  to  stewards  etc.  by  him 
so  deputed  to  answer  for  the  profits  as  aforesaid,  himself  receiving 
nothing  thereof,  to  stay  their  demand  upon  the  said  Richard  made 
by  exchequer  summons  to  account  with  them  for  the  same,  dis- 
charging him  thereof,  and  charging  the  constable  of  Bourdeaux  and 
the  others  deputed  as  aforesaid.  By  K. 


39  P:D\VAR1)  ITT. 


120 


18()5.  Membrane  21 — covf. 

July  8.  To  (lio  shorifT  of  Huutyniidon.     Order,  as  the  kiw^  has  loaniod  (liat 

■VVeslmiiistor.  liis  gaol  of  the  town  of  Huntyiigdoii  is  too  \\oak  and  ruinous  to  .suilicc 
for  tlie  custody  of  prisoners  taken  in  that  county,  of  the  issues  of  his 
bailiw  ick  up  to  tlie  sum  of  20/.  to  cause  the  said  gaol  to  be  repaired 
without  delay  by  view  and  testimony  of  the  prior  of  Huntyngdon, 
so  that  thieves  taken  and  to  be  taken  escape  not  for  lack  of  custody. 

By  K.  and  C. 

Membrane  20. 

July  1.  To  Philip  de  Luttelcy  escheator  in  Salop.     Order  to  cause  Nicholas 

Wostminater.  Burnel  knight  to  have  seisin  of  36  acres  of  land  in  Stcvynton  and 
Sete  held  by  Henry  Stevenes  outlawed  for  felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said 
land  has  been  in  his  hand  a  year  and  a  day,  that  the  said  Henry  held 
it  of  the  said  Nicholas,  that  it  is  yet  in  his  hand,  and  that  John  de 
Purslo^e  had  the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste,  and  ought  to 
answer  to  the  king  for  the  same. 

July  1.  To    the    sheriflf    of   York.     Order   to    cause    Thomas   de    Roos   of 

Westminster.  Hamelak  to  have  seisin  of  two  messuages  and  one  bovate  of  land  in 
Oswaldkirk  held  by  Robert  de  Merlyng  hanged  for  felony  it  is  said, 
saving  to  the  king  the  waste  thereof  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  sheriflf,  that  the  premises  have  been  in  his 
hand  a  year  and  a  day,  that  the  said  Robert  held  them  of  the  said 
Thomas,  that  they  are  yet  in  his  hand,  and  that  John  Baker  late 
bailiflf  of  Rydale  and  John  de  Malton  now  bailiff  had  the  year  and 
a  day,  and  after  took  to  the  king's  use  the  issues  and  profits  thereof 
^  arising  for  twelve  years,  and  are  yet  taking  them,  and  ought  to  answer 
for  them  to  the  king,  but  they  have  made  no  waste  there. 

June  28.         To  William  Strete  the  king's  butler.     Order  to  deliver  to  John 

Westminster.  Bray   usher   of   the   king's   receipt   one  pipe   of   good   wine   for   the 

consumption  of  the  chancellor  and  treasurer  and  others  of  the  council 

when  they  shall  be  occupied  at  Westminster  about  the  management 

of  the  king's  business,  taking  the  said  John's  acquittance.       By  K. 

March  18.       Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Robert  Stonard,  who  is  sick  and  aged. 

May  13.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Warrewyk  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  George  atte  Castel,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

May  12.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Eustace  de  Asshewell  of  Staunford,  who  is  dead. 

June  20.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  John  son  of  Reynold  Mohun,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

May  20.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  John  Alast  of  Fulbek,   who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 


Oct.  8.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Hertford  (sic)   to   cause    a    coroner   to   be 

Westminster,  elected  instead  of  John  de  Caluhill,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

E  9 


130 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365. 

Oct.  20. 

Westminster. 


May  23. 

Westminster. 


July  18. 
Westminster. 


July  26. 
Windsor. 


July  8. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  20 — cont. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Westmorland  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be 
elected  instead  of  Thomas  de  Redmane,  who  is  insufficiently 
qualified. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Rotelond  to  cause  a  verderer  of  the  forest 
of  Rotelond  to  be  elected  instead  of  John  de  Notyngham,  who  is 
sick  and  aged. 

To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne. 
Order,  upon  the  petition  of  certain  merchants  of  Scotland,  if  the 
collectors  may  be  assured  that  the  wool,  hides,  woolfells  and  other 
merchandise  salved  after  shipwreck  at  Whitebernes  within  the  limits 
of  the  said  port  were  of  the  produce  of  Scotland  and  not  of  England, 
and  were  customed  in  Scotland,  and  the  said  merchants  and  the 
seamen  escaped  alive  to  land,  to  suffer  the  said  merchants  to  lade 
the  same  again  in  other  ships  and  freely  take  them  over  to  Flanders 
or  elsewhere  as  they  will  without  paying  custom  or  subsidy  thereon  ; 
as  the  said  petition  shews  that  the  said  merchants  at  Edenburgh  laded 
a  ship  with  the  said  goods  to  take  to  Flanders  to  make  their  advantage 
thereof  and  there  customed  them,  that  the  said  ship  while  at  sea  on 
the  voyage  was  by  a  tempest  wrecked  at  Whitebernes,  that  the 
merchants  and  the  seamen  of  the  ship  escaped  alive  to  land,  and 
certain  of  their  said  goods  were  there  cast  up  on  land  and  salved, 
praying  licence  to  lade  these  again  and  take  them  to  foreign  parts 
without  payment  of  custom.  Proviso  that  no  such  goods  of  the 
produce  of  England  be  laded  or  taken  to  foreign  parts  by  colour  of 
this  command.  By  C. 

To  the  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Seford  and  the  collectors  of  customs 
there.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  the  count  of  Flanders,  if  by  in- 
quisition or  otherwise  they  may  be  assured  that  certain  seamen  of 
Dunkirk  in  Flanders  paid  custom  to  the  king  for  all  their  goods  and 
merchandise  lately  laded  in  a  ship  of  theirs  in  the  port  of  the  said 
town,  and  believed  that  certain  wool  put  on  board  the  same  ship  by 
a  certain  man  of  Brabant  was  well  and  truly  customed,  to  retain  in  the 
king's  hands  the  said  wool,  which  is  not  customed,  and  to  cause  the 
said  seamen  and  also  their  said  ship  and  goods  to  be  dearrested, 
suffering  them  without  let  to  pass  therewith-  to  foreign  ports  whither 
they  will ;  as  the  said  petition  shows  that,  though  John  Henrys  and 
his  fellows,  seamen  and  burgesses  of  Dunkirk,  well  and  truly  paid 
the  customs  and  subsidies  upon  all  their  goods  in  the  said  ship,  the 
said  seamen  are  arrested  with  the  ship  and  goods  for  that  the  wool, 
which  they  thought  to  be  customed  and  was  not,  was  put  on  board 
by  the  said  man  of  Brabant,  praying  for  the  dearrest  of  the  ship, 
goods  and  seamen,  who  were  altogether  innocent  of  the  said  falsehood. 

ByK. 

Membrane  19. 

To  the  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Derby  for  the  time  being.  Order  to 
pay  to  John  Bray,  usher  of  the  receipt  of  the  exchequer,  lOL  yearly 
of  the  issues  of  the  said  town  at  the  usual  terms,  and  to  be  answerable 
to  him  for  the  same,  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent ;  as  lately 
at  the  petition  of  Edward  de  Troubrik,  to  whom  the  king  for  his  good 
service  granted  by  letters  patent  lOZ.  to  be  taken  every  year  for  life  at 


39  EDWARD  HI. 


131 


136 


0. 


Membrane  19 — cont. 


July  15. 

Westminster. 


tlie  cxohoqiuM',  for  a  sum  of  money  by  the  said  .lolm  to  the  said 
Kidward  paid  in  his  great  need  for  furtherance  of  hi.s  business, 
in  recompense  thereof,  after  the  said  letters  were  given  up 
in  ehanceiy,  the  king  of  liis  favour  granted  to  tlie  said  John  by 
other  h'tters  patent  10/,  every  year  of  the  farm  which  tlic 
prior  of  Christ  Church  Canterbury  was  bound  to  pay  the  king 
for  the  manor  of  Borle,  to  be  taken  by  the  liands  of  tlic  said  prior  at 
Michaehnas  and  Easter  by  even  portions  during  tlic  life  of  the  said  John 
or  until  provision  should  be  made  by  the  king  or  his  heirs  of  10/.  a 
year  of  land  or  rent  for  his  life  ;  and  after,  for  certain  lands  adjoining 
the  king's  castle  of  Risshyndon  co.  Kent  which  they  released  to  him 
and  his  heirs,  the  king  remitted  to  the  said  prior  and  the  convent 
and  to  their  successors  a  portion  of  the  sum  by  them  yearly  payable  to 
him  for  the  said  manor,  by  reason  whereof  the  said  John  cannot  obtain 
further  payment  from  them,  and  for  his  indemnification,  who  has 
given  up  tlae  last  mentioned  letters  in  chancery  to  be  cancelled,  the 
king  has  granted  him  10/.  a  year  of  tlie  farm  of  the  said  town,  to  be 
taken  for  life  at  the  same  terms  by  the  hands  of  the  bailiffs  for  the 
time  being.  The  king's  will  is  that  the  said  bailiffs  be  thereof 
discharged  towards  hinir 

To  William  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  fully  to  restore 
to  the  abbot  of  Kirkestall  a  messuage  and  8  acres  of  land  in  Adel,  to- 
gether with  the  issues  thereof  taken,  saving  to  the  king  any  services  and 
profits  to  him  lawfully  due,  staying  the  distraint  made  or  yet  to  be 
made  for  these  upon  the  said  abbot  until  debate  be  had  whether  the  same 
ought  to  pertain  to  the  king  ;  as  lately  the  king  ordered  the  escheator 
to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  the  said  abbot's  lands  in 
Adel  were  by  William  de  Nessefeld  late  escheator  taken  into  the  king's 
hand,  and  he  returned  that  the  said  late  escheator  by  indenture  de- 
livered the  premises  to  him  at  the  time  of  his  succession  in  that  office, 
alleging  that  they  are  in  the  king's  hand  for  that  the  abbot  held  the 
same  to  him  and  his  successors  of  John  de  Insula  and  his  heirs  by 
knight  service  and  other  services,  that  the  said  John  held  them  in 
chief  by  knight  service  as  parcel  of  his  manor  of  Harewode,  that  in 
the  king's  time  without  his  licence  the  said  John  quitclaimed  to  the 
abbot  and  his  successors  all  services  to  him  due  of  the  premises,  by 
reason  whereof  the  abbot  and  convent  held  the  same  in  chief  by  knight 
service  and  other  services,  and  that  the  abbey  was  lately  void,  and  the 
now  abbot  entered  the  premises  without  process  of  the  king's  court 
and  without  performing  the  services  etc.  due  to  the  king  ;  and  the 
cause  being  examined  in  the  council,  it  seems  to  the  council  that 
the  premises  were  unlawfully  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  for  that  in  the 
escheator's  certificate  no  trespass  is  found  in  the  acquisition  thereof. 


July  4.  To  William  de  Otteford  escheator    in    Cambridgeshire.     Order  to 

Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage 
and  10  acres  of  land  of  John  Broun  the  younger,  2  acres  of  land  of 
John  Broun  the  elder,  3  acres  of  land  of  John  Andrewe  and  3  roods  of 
land  of  William  Dawe  in  Little  Grantisden,  delivering  to  John  Broun 
the  younger,  John  Broun  the  elder,  William  Wheler  and  William  Paget 
any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to 
certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  the  premises  were  by  him  taken 
into  the  king's  hand,  and  he  returned  that  he  so  took  the  same  for 


132 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1865. 


Membrane  19 — cont. 


that  it  was  found  by  inquisition,  before  him  taken  of  his  office,  that 
John  de  Hothum  late  bishop  of  Ely  without  the  king's  licence  appro- 
priated the  premises  to  himself  at  mortmain  by  the  said  John  Broun 
the  younger,  John  Broun  the  elder,  John  Andrew  and  William  his 
neifs  ;  and  after  John  Broun  the  younger,  John  Broun  the  elder, 
William  Wheler  heir  of  the  said  John  Andrewe  and  William  Paget  heir 
of  the  said  William  Dawe  informed  the  king  that  they  are  not  nor 
ever  were  neifs,  but  free  tenants  of  the  said  bishop,  and  that  they  have 
acquired  their  said  tenements  in  fee  to  them  and  their  heirs,  without 
that  that  the  bishop  of  Ely  at  any  time  had  or  claimed  anything  in 
the  premises  but  only  rent  and  other  services  to  him  due,  praying  for 
the  removal  of  the  king's  hand  ;  and  the  king  ordered  the  escheator 
to  make  inquisition  touching  the  circumstances,  and  by  inquisition  so 
made  it  is  found  that  John  Broun  the  younger  and  John  Broun  the 
elder  are  free  tenants  of  the  said  bishop  and  not  neifs,  that  John 
Andrewe  is  the  bishop's  neif  and  acquired  3  acres  of  the  said  land 
which  he  aliened  to  William  Wheler,  that  William  Dawe  is  the  bishop's 
neif  and  acquired  3  roods  thereof  which  after  he  aliened  to  William 
Paget,  that  William  W^heler  and  William  Paget  are  free  tenants  of 
the  said  bishop,  and  that  the  3  acres  which  were  of  John  Andrewe 
or  the  3  roods  which  were  of  William  Dawe  were  never  seized  into  the 
bishop's  hands  nor  the  hands  of  his  predecessorb. 

July  14.  To  the  collectors  and  the  controller  of  the  custom  of  wool,  hides 

Westminster,  and  woolfells,  and  to  the  troner  of  wool  in  the  portof  Great  Jernemuth. 
Order  to  make  allowance  to  merchants,  native  and  alien,  in  weighing 
their  wool  for  the  canvas  wherein  it  is  packed  and  the  corners  thereof, 
two  cloves  for  every  sarpler  greater  than  the  sack  and  one  clove  for 
every  sarpler  containing  a  sack  or  less,  no  longer  compelling  them  to 
pay  custom  or  subsidy  for  the  same  ;  as  lately  by  assent  of  parliament 
the  king  granted  them  that  allowance.  By  C. 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  collectors  etc.  in  the  port  of  London. 

The  collectors  etc.  in  the  port  of  Gippewic. 

The  collectors  etc.  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne. 

Oct.  24.  To  Lionel  duke  of  Clarence  the  king's  son  and  lieutenant  in  Ireland, 
WestiTkinster.  and  to  the  chancellor  and  treasurer  in  Ireland.  Order  to  admit  John 
de  Hirst  clerk  and  John  Neubeurn,  jointly  and  severally  deputed  by 
William  de  Rysceby  the  king's  yeoman  to  exercise  in  Ireland  the 
office  of  gauging  aa  ines,  suffering  them  and  either  of  them  to  do  and 
exercise  the  same,  taking  the  profit  thereof  according  to  the  king's 
letters  patent,  thereby  on  23  February  in  the  27th  year  of  his  reign 
the  king  of  his  favour  gave  to  the  said  William  for  his  good  service  the 
office  of  gauging  wines  at  Chester  and  in  singular  the  ports  and  places 
in  Ireland  for  his  life,  with  the  fees  and  profits  thereto  pertaining, 
in  the  same  manner  as  Thomas  de  Colle  deceased  had  the  said  office. 
Et  erat  patens. 


Oct.  1.  To  the   sheriff  of  Somerset.     Order  to  remove  the  king's  hand, 

Westminster,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Haselbere,  by  him  lately 

taken  into  the  king's  hand  for  particular  causes,  saving  always  the 

king's  right.  By  C. 


39  EDWARD  III.  Wi 


1305.  Membrane  18. 

June  28.  To  tlic  troasuivi-  and  tlic  barons  of  the  exoliofjuor.  Order,  upon 
Wostniitistor.  tlie  ])etition  of  Ho<,n'r  de  Colesford  sheriiT  of  Oxford  and  Berks,  if  by 
certificate  of  the  keepers  of  Wyndesore  forest  and  of  the  king's  manors 
of  Foli  Johan  and  Oldewyndesore,  by  in({uisition  or  otherwise  they 
may  be  assured  that  certain  parcels  of  land  are  included  within  the 
king's  park  of  W'yndesore  or  annexed  to  the  said  manors,  and  that  the 
sherilf  has  not  levied  nor  might  levy  thereof  any  rent  from  the  time 
they  A\ere  so  included  or  annexed,  to  cause  as  well  the  sheriff  as  the 
tenants  thereof  to  be  discharged  at  the  exchequer  of  the  yearly  rent 
falling  upon  every  parcel  and  of  the  arrears  thereof  from  that  time  ; 
as  the  sheriff  has  shewn  tlic  king  that  47 1  acres  1  rood  20  perches  of 
land  at  Snowedon  w ithin  the  said  forest  for  which  John  de  London 
used  to  pay  23s.  ll|rf.  a  year  to  the  sheriff,  5 J  acres  1  rood  5  perches  of 
land  in  the  same  town  for  which  Thomas  Shawe  used  to  pay  2s.  lO^d., 
4  acres  of  land  there  for  which  John  PoA\ys  used  to  pay  2s.,  15^  acres 
of  land  by  the  land  of  John  Powys  for  which  John  Bataille  used  to  pay 
76'.  9d.,  3  acres  3|  perches  of  land  for  \\hich  Matthew  de  la  Chaumbre 
used  to  pay  18|(/.,  all  parcels  of  a  yearly  farm  of  14Z.  Id^d.,  6  acres 
13  perches  of  land  by  the  pasture  of  Margery  de  la  Chaumbre  for 
which  Andrew  le  Bas  used  to  pay  3s.  2d.,  32  perches  of  land  there  for 
which  John  Bataille  used  to  pay  lid.,  parcel  of  a  yearly  farm  of 
70s.  2d.,  60|  acres  5  perches  of  land  at  Ingelfeld  by  la  Knappe  for 
which  Geoffrey  Merre  used  to  pay  15s.  l^d.,  17|  acres  14  perches  of 
land  by  the  purpresture  of  Andrew  le  Bas  for  which  John  Maurdyn 
used  to  pay  5s.  lO^d.,  parcels  of  a  yearly  farm  of  22s.  lljcZ.,  a  pur- 
presture for  which  John  Lenveysy  used  to  pay  12d.  a  year,  parcel  of 
six  farms  of  15s.  lOd.,  \\hicli  farms  are  parcel  of  the  said  counties, 
were  enclosed  within  the  said  park  at  the  time  of  its  enclosure  and 
are  yet  so  enclosed,  also  that  3  acres  of  land  at  Wolvele  for  which 
John  de  Drokesford  used  to  pay  12c/.  a  year,  parcel  of  a  yearly  farm 
of  Hi.  16s.  lid.,  60  roods  32  perches  of  land  at  Brodeford  and  Ermyteecroft 
for  which  William  le  Merre  used  to  pay  30s.  4|(Z.,  parcel  of  a  farm  of 
14/.  16}(/.,  97  acres  1  rood  17  perches  of  land  in  a  piece  of  ground 
called  la  Rowehull  for  M'hich  Hugh  de  Sancto  Philberto  used  to  pay 
48s.  Sid.,  10  acres  of  land  there  for  which  John  de  Mora  used  to  pay 
5s.,  2  acres  1  rood  2  perches  of  land  at  Benytestrete  f or  which  William 
de  Merre  used  to  pay  IS^d.,  172  acres  of  land  by  Loffeld  at  Brodestrode 
and  Nuthurst  for  ^\■hicll  Jolm  de  Drokenesford  used  to  pay  57s.  3d.,  and 
1  acre  of  land  at  Nuthurst  for  which  he  used  to  pay  4(/.,  parcels  of  a 
yearly  farm  of  115s.  S^d.,  12J  acres  1  rood  of  land  at  Assheruggeslud 
for  which  Hugh  de  Sancto  Philberto  used  to  pay  6s.  4c/.,  the  moiety  of 
1  acre  9  perches  of  land  there  for  which  John  de  Mora  used  to  pay 
Sid.  a  year  to  the  sheriff,  parcels  of  a  yearly  farm  of  70s.  2d.,  w  hich  farms 
are  likewise  parcel  of  the  said  counties,  are  annexed  to  the  king's  said 
manors,  whereby  no  rent  of  the  said  parcels  of  land  may  be  by  the 
sheriff  levied  to  the  king's  use,  but  that  nevertheless  the  sums  falling 
upon  the  said  parcels  of  land  are  current  in  demand  at  the  exchequer, 
and  the  sheriff  is  yet  charged  with  them  in  his  account,  wherefore 
he  has  prayed  for  remedy. 

June  30.        To  John  de  Bekynton  escheator  in  Dorset.     Order  to  cause  the 

Westminster,  amends  of  bread  and  ale  in  the  hundred  of  Byre,  and  the  amercements 

as  well  of  the  men,  tenants  and  villeins  of  the  abbess    of  Tarente 

in   the    to\\n    of     Byre    as    of    others     within     the   precinct   of   the 

said    hundred,     also    a    moiety    of    the    wood    of    Byre,  whereof 


134 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  18 — cont. 

Richard  de  Turberville  at  his  death  was  seised  as  parcel 
of  the  manor  and  hundred  of  Byre,  and  which  by  his  death 
are  taken  into  the  king's  hands,  to  be  dehvered  to  Eleanor  who  was 
wife  of  the  said  Richard,  two  thirds  thereof  with  the  issues  of  that 
portion  taken  since  his  death  in  name  of  wardship,  the  third  part  with 
the  issues  thereof  taken  since  the  assignment  of  dower  to  her  in  name 
of  dower,  to  hold  as  the  said  Richard  and  his  ancestors  tenants  of  the 
said  manor  and  hundred  used  to  hold  the  same  ;  as  on  13  March  in 
the  36th  yea.r  of  his  reign  the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  assign 
to  the  said  Eleanor  dower  of  the  lands  of  her  said  husband,  who  held 
by  knight  service  of  the  heir  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford 
tenant  in  chief,  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  after  on  20  March 
next  following  by  letters  patent  the  king  committed  to  her  the  ward- 
ship of  two  thirds  of  the  said  manor  and  hundred,  which  the  said 
Richard  at  his  death  so  held  of  the  said  heir  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee, 
and  which  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the 
nonage  of  his  heir,  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since  his  death,  to 
hold  for  a  set  yearly  farm  until  the  lawful  age  of  Richard's  heir  ;  and 
now  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said 
Richard  at  his  death  held  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  the  said  manor  and 
hundred,  the  amends  of  bread  and  ale  in  the  said  hundred,  with  the 
profit  of  the  amercements  at  the  two  lawful  hundreds  of  Byre,  namely 
of  St.  Martin  and  of  '  Hokday,'  of  all  who  use  false  measures  and  sell 
contrary  to  the  assize  within  the  hundred,  as  well  men,  tenants  and 
villeins  of  the  said  abbess  in  that  town  as  others  within  the  precinct 
thereof,  that  he  used  to  levy  those  amercements  to  his  use  and 
advantage  by  his  bailiff  of  the  hundred,  together  with  the  moiety  of 
the  said  wood  with  the  said  abbess  as  parcel  of  the  said  undivided 
manor,  and  that  the  escheator  by  virtue  of  the  king's  said  command 
caused  a  third  part  of  the  said  manor  and  hundred  with  the  appur- 
tenances to  be  assigned  in  dower  to  the  said  Eleanor. 

Mandate  to  the  said  abbess  to  suffer  the  said  Eleanor  to  have  the 
amends  and  amercements  aforesaid  as  well  of  the  men,  tenants  and 
villeins  of  the  abbess  in  the  town  of  Byre  as  of  others  within  the  precinct 
of  the  hundred,  to  levy  those  amercements  to  her  use  by  the  said 
bailiff,  and  to  hold  the  moiety  of  the  said  wood,  taking  her  estover 
and  other  profits  therein  as  the  said  Richard  used  to  do. 

The  like  to  John  Brunyng  steward  of  the  said  abbess,  mutatis 
mutandis. ' 

July  3.  To  John  de  Bekynton  escheator  in  Dorset.     Order  to  take  the  fealty 

Westminster,  of  Hawise  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  de  Neuburgh  according  to  the  form 
of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of 
Wynfrede  Neuburgh  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  the 
said  Thomas,  delivering  to  her  any  issues  thereof  taken ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said 
Thomas  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee,  but  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his  licence 
held  the  said  manor  jointly  with  the  said  Hawise  in  chief  by  the 
service  of  holding  a  laver  for  washing  the  king's  hands  on  the  day  of 
his  coronation. 


June  26.        To  Ricliard  de  Wydeville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.     Order 
Westminster,  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage 
in  Daventre  which  was  of  William  Ryms  etc.  {as  above,  p.  127). 


39  EDWARD  III. 


135 


18(')5. 

July  10. 
Wostininster, 


Membrane  18 — -cont. 

To  Leo  d,e  Pcrton  oscheator  in  WorcesVershire.  Order  to  cause 
Walter  son  and  heir  of  Hugh  de  Coki^.sheye  tenant  in  chief  to  have 
seisin  of  the  lands  of  his  said  father  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
his  death  ;  as  tlie  said  Walter  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator, 
and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.   [26683.] 

To  John  de  Wyndesore  escheator  in  Warwickshire.  Like  order, 
as  the  said  Walter  has  proved  his  age  before  Leo  de  Perton. 

The  like  to  Philip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  Salop.      By  p.s.  [as  above]. 


July  28.  To  John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Kent.  Order  to  remove  the  king's 
Westminster,  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  lands  which  at  his  death 
Alan  de  Twytham,  grandfather  af  Alan  son  of  Theobald  de  Twytham, 
held  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  the  archbishopric  of  Canterbury  lately 
void  and  in  the  king's  hand,  and  which  by  his  death,  by  reason  of  the 
nonage  of  the  said  Alan  son  of  Theobald  and  because  of  the  vacancy 
of  the  said  archbishopric  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  ;  as  the  said 
Alan  son  of  Theobald,  cousin  and  heir  of  the  said  Alan  de  Twytham 
tenant  by  knight  service  of  the  said  archbishopric,  has  proved  his 
age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  at  another  time  took  the  fealty 
of  Simon  now  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and  commanded  livery  to  be 
given  him  of  the  temporalities  of  the  archbishopric. 


Aug.  6. 
Windsor. 


July  28. 
Windsor. 


To  Lionel  duke  of  Clarence  the  king's  son  and  lieutenant  in  Ireland, 
and  to  the  chancellor  and  treasurer  of  Ireland.  Order  to  cause  all 
lands  in  Ireland  of  Mary  de  Sancto  Paulo  countess  of  Pembroke,  to- 
gether with  the  issues  thereof  from  the  octaves  of  Easter  last,  to  be 
delivered  to  the  said  countess  to  hold  in  the  same  manner  as  before  they 
were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  ;  as  for  particular  causes  willing  to 
shew  favour  to  the  said  countess  the  king  has  granted  her  the  said 
lands,  which  lately  he  commanded  to  be  taken  into  his  hand  for  the 
purpose  of  an  aid  for  a  set  time  for  defence  of  Ireland  against  the 
king's  Irish  enemies.  By  K. 

Et  erat  patens. 

Membrane  17. 

To  Ralph  Spigurnell  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of  the 
Cinque  Ports.  Of  the  complaint  of  the  lords  and  others  the  commons 
of  the  realm  the  king  is  informed  that  great  numbers  as  well  clerks, 
laymen  and  men  of  religion  as  others  have  aforetime  without  the 
king's  licence  passed  out  of  the  realm  and  do  daily  so  pass  within  the 
bailiwick  and  districts  of  the  said  Ralph  by  means  of  favours  and  gifts 
as  by  his  negligence,  connivance  and  sufferance,  taking  out  with  them 
at  w  ill  great  and  needless  sums  of  gold  and  silver,  and  letters,  processes 
etc.  in  writing  as  well  by  letters  of  exchange  as  by  way  of  chevance 
in  merchandise  and  in  money  and  by  divers  other  subtle  means,  and 
what  is  worse  that  the  said  Ralph  suffers  great  numbers  of  persons 
as  well  the  king's  subjects  as  others  of  whatsoever  nation  and  condition, 
carrying  with  them  bulls,  letters,  processes,  instruments  etc.  in  writing 
prejudicial  and  hurtful  to  the  king,  his  people  and  realm,  to  land  in 
ports  and  other  places  within  his  said  bailiwick  and  districts,  and 
without  arrest  to  go  their  way  within  the  realm  whither  they  will, 
in  contempt  of  the  king  and  of  the  ordinance  made  in  full  parliament 
by  the  kmg,  lords  and  commons,  and  contrary  to  the  proclamation 


136  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  17 — cont. 

many  times  made,  whereat  the  king  is  moved  to  anger  :  order  there- 
fore, under  pain  of  forfeiture,  to  suffer  no  person  of  whatsoever  nation 
or  condition,  without  the  king's  special  command  by  letters  under  his 
secret  seal  to  the  said  Ralph  addressed,  in  ports  or  places  within  his 
bailiwick  or  districts  to  pass  out  of  the  realm  with  money  or  plate  of 
gold  or  silver,  letters  of  exchange  or  other  letters,  processes  or  in- 
struments in  writing  contrary  to  the  said  ordinance  and  proclamations, 
known  merchants  excepted  exercising  their  lawful  traffic  who  will 
cross  the  sea  for  that  purpose,  to  make  search  and  keep  guard  in 
every  the  ports  and  places  aforesaid  by  day  and  by  night  that  no 
person  may  there  land  or  disembark  until  he  and  all  he  shall  bring  with 
him  or  in  his  company  be  openly  searched,  viewed  and  examined, 
.»  causing  aU  Avho  shall  be  found  to  have  with  them  hurtful  bulls,  processes, 
instruments,  letters  or  other  writings  as  aforesaid  to  be  arrested  and 
kept  in  safe  custody  until  further  order,  taking  to  him  all  such  bulls 
etc.  so  found,  and  sending  them  under  his  seal  by  trusty  messengers  to 
the  council  at  London  there  to  be  inspected  and  dealt  with  as  law 
and  reason  require,  to  cause  all  masters  of  ships  and  vessels  touching 
within  the  said  bailiwicks  and  districts,  and  the  seamen,  mer- 
chants and  others  whatsoever  therein,  under  pain  of  forfeiture  of  the 
said  vessels  and  the  goods  therein,  to  swear  every  one  by  himself 
upon  the  gospels  that  they  will  not  conceal  any  person  or  thing  in 
bales,  gear,  barrels,  vessels  or  elsewhere  within  their  ships  but  will  plainly 
tell  and  shew  all  tlierein  contained,  and  in  like  manner  all  merchants 
crossing  the  sea  to  swear  that  they  will  take  no  gold  or  silver  out  of  the 
realm  in  money  or  plate  secretly  or  openly,  nor  by  letters  or  otherwise 
make  nor  procure  exchange  or  chevance,  save  only  for  their  lawful 
merchandise  to  traffic  thereA\ith  as  true  merchants  ought,  and  that 
without  shewing  favour,  comfort,  aid,  maintenance  nor  the  shadow 
or  colour  thereof  to  any  other  whatsoever  to  make  apport  or  payment 
without  the  realm  in  fraud  or  defeat  of  the  effect  of  the  said  ordinance, 
and  lastly  to  cause  all  these  things  to  be  executed  from  time  to  time, 
so  that  by  his  negligence,  lukewarmness  or  default  no  hurt  nor  peril  may 
happen  to  the  king,  his  subjects  or  to  the  realm,  whereby  the  king 
should  have  matter  for  wrath  against  him.  By  K.  and  C. 

Et  erat  patens. 
[See  lorit  of  this  date  to  the  governor  of  Calais  in  Foedera.] 

The  like  \\Tits  patent  to  the  following  : 

The  bailiffs  of  Herewic,   the  customers,  keepers  of  the  passage 

and  the  king's  searchers  in  that  port. 
The  bailiffs  of  Plummuth  etc. 
The  bailiffs  of  Romeneye  etc. 
The  bailiffs  of  Lyme  etc. 
The  bailiffs  of  Grymesby  etc. 

The  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London,  the  customers  etc. 
The  bailiffs  of  Maldon  etc. 
The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Exeter  etc. 
The  bailiffs  of  Shorham  etc. 
The  bailiffs  of  Lemyngton  etc. 
The  bailiffs  of  Melcombe  etc. 
The  bailiffs  of  Faversham  etc. 
The  bailiffs  of  Scardeburgh  etc. 
The  bailiffs  of  Weymuth  etc. 
The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Sandewic  etc. 


39  EDWARD  III.  137 


i 


1306.  Membrane  17 — cont. 

The  mayor  and  bailifTs  of  Wynchclsc  etc. 

Tlic  mayor  and  bailifts  of  Lenne  etc. 

The  bailiffs  of  Dcrtemutli  etc. 

The  mayor  and  bailifTs  of  Rye  etc. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Suthampton  etc. 

The  bailiffs  of  Seford  etc. 

The  bailiffs  of  Jerncmuth  etc. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  isle  of  Tanct  etc. 

Thomas  Havener'  keeper  of  all  ports  and  passages  in  Cornwall , 

the  customers  etc. 
The  bailiffs  of  Boston  etc. 
The  bailiffs  of  Bruggewatre  etc. 
The  bailiffs  of  Gippewic  etc. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull  etc. 
The  bailiffs  of  Lyverpole  etc. 
Tlie  bailiffs  of  Mergate  etc. 
The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Bristol  etc. 
The  bailifTs  of  Barton  upon  Humbre. 
The  bailiffs  of  Warham  etc. 

Tlie  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Cicestre  etc.  ; 

The  bailiffs  of  Hamelhoke  etc 
The  bailffs  of  Hastyngges  etc. 
Tlie  bailifTs  of  Blakeneye  etc. 
The  bailiffs  of  Dunwic  etc. 
The  bailifTs  of  K[i]rkeleyrode. 
The  bailifTs  of  Orford  etc. 
The  bailifTs  of  Gosford  etc. 

The  mayor  and  bailifTs  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne  etc. 
The  bailiffs  of  Hythe  etc. 
The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Dovorre  etc. 
The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Colcestre  etc. 
The  bailifTs  of  Waynflete  etc. 
The  bailifTs  of  la  Pole  etc. 
The  bailiffs  of  Salfletehaven  etc. 
The  bailiffs  of  Hertilpole  etc. 
The  bailifTs  of  Whyteby  etc. 
The  bailiffs  of  Seton  etc. 
The  bailiffs  of  Cheppestowe  etc. 
The  steward  and  bailiffs  of  Holdernesse  etc. 
The  bailifTs  of  Fowy  etc. 

July  28.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.     Order,  upon  sight  of  these  presents,   to 

Windsor,  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  forbidding  under  pain  of  forfeiture 
any  native  or  alien  of  whatsoever  condition,  without  the  king's  licence 
by  letters  under  his  secret  seal,  by  himself  or  by  others  to  take  or 
send  gold  or  silver  out  of  the  realm  in  money  or  plate  by  w^ay  of 
change  or  otherwise,  to  procure  or  sue  letters  of  exchange  by  any  means 
or  colour  whatsoever,  nor  to  deliver  merchandise  or  other  aver  to  any 
man  to  take  or  pay  the  value  thereof  over  sea  but  only  to  lawful 
merchants  known  for  such  for  exercise  of  their  traffic,  forbidding 
any  man  contrary  to  the  ordinance  to  bring  within  the  realm  bulls, 
letters,  processes,  instruments  or  other  writings  prejudicial  to  the 
kmg  and  his  people,  and  commanding  all  keepers  and  searchers  of 
passages  and  ports  of  the  realm  under  the  pain  aforesaid  to  make 


138  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


13G5.  Membrane  17 — cont. 

search  and  keep  watch  in  all  ports  and  places  within  their  bailiwick 
and  districts  by  day  and  by  night  according  to  the  commands  to  them 
addressed,  and  to  take  and  arrest  all  ^^  horn  the  sheriff  shall  find  doing 
contrary  to  these  things,  and  the  gold,  silver,  bulls,  instruments  etc. 
^^•ith  them  found,  and  keep  them  in  safe  custody  until  further  order, 
certifying  the  king  from  time  to  time  of  their  action  ;  as  of  the  com- 
plaint etc.  {as  above)  the  king  is  informed  that  great  numbers  etc.  have 
passed  and  do  pass  out  of  the  realm  without  his  licence  taking  with 
them  at  will  gold  and  silver  as  well  by  letters  of  exchange  as  by  Avay  of 
chevance  in  merchandise  and  in  money  and  by  divers  other  subtle 
means,  and  processes,  instruments,  bulls,  letters  etc.  in  writing,  and 
what  is  Avorse  that  great  number  of  persons  of  whatsoever  nation 
and  condition  willing  to  cross  the  sea  are  suffered  to  land  in  ports  and 
places  within  the  realm  carrying  with  them  bulls,  letters,  processes, 
instruments  etc.  in  writing  prejudicial  and  hurtful  to  the  king,  his 
people  and  the  realm,  and  without  arrest  to  go  their  way  within  the 
realm  whither  they  will,  in  contempt  etc.  By  K.  and  C. 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  sheriff  of  Lancastre. 

The  sheriff  of  Northumberland. 

The  sheriff  of  Cumberland. 

The  sheriff  of  York. 

The  sheriff  of  Lincoln. 

The  sheriff  of  Norffolk  and  Suffolk. 

The  sheriff  of  Essex. 

The  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge  and  Huntingdon. 

The  sheriff  of  Sussex. 

The  sheriff  of  Suthampton. 

The  sheriff  of  Somerset  and  Dorset. 

The  sheriff  of  Devon. 

The  sheriff  of  Gloucester. 

The  sheriff  of  Oxford  and  Berks. 

The  sheriff  of  Salop. 

Membrane  16. 

Sept.  5.  To  the  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge.     Order  to  remove  the  king's  hand, 

Westminster,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  two  thirds  of  one  dovecot,  20  acres 
of  land  and  1|  acre  of  meadow  in  Hokyton,  delivering  up  any  issues 
thereof  taken  since  the  death  of  John  de  Russheton  ;  as  lately  at 
the  suit  of  Thomas  Moraunt  and  Ellen  his  wife,  sister  and  heir  of  the 
said  John,  alleging  that  the  said  John  by  process  before  the  justices  of 
the  Bench  for  an  alleged  trespass  against  William  Lengleys  was  put 
in  exigents  to  be  outlawed  in  Westmorland,  and  was  after  outlaAved, 
his  goods  and  chattels  seized  into  the  king's  hand  as  forfeit  by  the  then 
sheriff,  and  his  lands  in  Hokyton  likewise  to  answer  to  the  king  for 
the  issues  thereof  arising  during  such  outlawry,  that  the  said  John  is 
long  dead,  and  that  his  lands  ought  not  for  the  outlawTy  aforesaid 
to  remain  in  the  king's  hand  after  his  death,  praying  the  king  to  remove 
his  hand  and  cause  the  same  to  be  restored  to  the  said  Thomas  and 
Ellen,  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  make  inquisition  touching  the 
premises  ;  and  by  inquisition  so  made  it  is  found  that  the  said  John 
died  about  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  in  the  23rd  year  of  the  reign,  that 
he  was  outlawed  in  Westmorland  about  the  feast  of  Trinity  in  the 
17th  year  at  the  suit  of  William  Lengleys  for  a  trespass  against  him, 


ao  EDWARD  III. 


1:39 


1305.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

that  tlic  said  lands  in  Hokyton  were  about  tlie  said  feast  of  Trinity 
seized  into  the  king's  hand  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  that  they  are  iield 
of  others  tlian  the  king,  and  that  the  said  KMen  sister  of  John  is  his  next 
heir  and  of  the  age  of  40  years  and  up^^ards.  Proviso  that  answer 
be  made  to  tlie  king  for  the  issues  of  the  said  hinds  from  the  publisliing 
of  the  said  outhiwry  to  the  day  of  John's  death. 

Aug.  28.  To  Roger  dc  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Essex.  Order  not  to  meddle 
Marlborough,  further  with  the  manor  called  Shynglehalle  in  Great  Dunmowe,  which 
came  to  the  king's  hands  by  the  death  of  William  Olyve  tenant  by 
knight  service  of  the  heir  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford 
tenant  in  chief,  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  by  reason  of  the 
nonage  of  Alice  daughter  and  heir  of  the  said  William,  who  died 
within  age  and  in  the  king's  wardship  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisi- 
tion, taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  manor  came  to 
the  king's  hands  as  aforesaid  and  is  yet  in  his  hand,  that 
it  is  lield  of  the  said  earl's  heir  by  the  service  of  one  knight's 
fee,  and  that  John  Boys  of  Dunmowe,  son  of  Mary  one  of 
the  sisters  of  John  Olyve  father  of  the  said  William  and  grand- 
father of  the  said  Alice,  is  her  next  heir  and  of  full  age  ;  and  at 
another  time  on  proof  of  the  age  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun  now  earl  of 
Hereford,  cousin  and  heir  of  the  said  earl,  the  king  took  his  homage 
and  commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  the  said  earl's  lands. 

Sept.  12.         To  Thomas  Cheyne  escheator  in  Devon.     Order  to  cause  Edmund 

Marlborough,  son  and  heir  of  John  de   Stonore   tenant  in  chief  to  have  seisin  of 

the  lands  of  his  said  father  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  ; 

as  the  said  Edmund  has  proved   his   age   before   the  escheator,  and 

the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [26722.] 

To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Oxfordshire,  Berkshire  and  the 
county  of  Suthampton.     Like  order,  as  the  said  Edmund  has  proved 
his  age  before  Thomas  Cheyne. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

Philip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  Gloucestershire. 
Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire. 
William  de  Otteford  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire. 
John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Middlesex. 

Sept.  16.        To   Philip   de   Lutteleye   escheator  in   Gloucestershire   and   Salop. 

Windsor.  Order  to  cause  Thomas  son  and  heir  of  William  de  Lodelowe  tenant  in 
chief  to  have  seisin  of  the  lands  of  his  said  father  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  his  death  ;  as  the  said  Thomas  has  proved  his  age  before 
the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty. 

By  p.s.  [26724.] 


Oct.  6.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.    Order,  of  the  issues  of  the  city  of  London, 

Westminster,  to  pay  by  indenture  to  be  made  between  them  and  John  Braban  the 
king's  yeoman,  making  mention  of  the  price  and  description  thereof, 
for  the  hawks  which  the  said  John  shall  take  to  the  king's  use  in  the 
said  city  and  within  a  circuit  of  ten  leagues  ;  as  the  king  by  letters 
patent  has  appointed  the  said  John  keeper  of  his  mews  by  Westminster 
to  take  hawks  for  sale  in  the  said  city  and  circuit  by  water  and  by 


14Q  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  16 — coni. 

land  for  prompt  payment  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriffs,  namely  a  falcon 
gentil  for  205.,  a  tiercel  gentil  for  IO5.,  a  goshawk  for  13s.  4(Z.,  a  tiercel 
goshawk  for  half  a  mark,  a  lanner  for  half  a  mark. 
[Feeder  a.} 

Oct.  6.  To  William  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Yorkshire  and  Northumberland. 

Westminster.  Order  to  cause  Henry  de  Percy  knight,  son  and  heir  of  Henry  de  Percy 
the  elder  and  Idonea  his  wife,  to  have  seisin  of  the  manors  of  Lekyng- 
feld,  Semere,  Nafferton,  Catton,  Kirklevyngton,  Clethorp  and 
Gikeleswyk  and  certain  tenements  in  Benyngton  co.  York,  the  third 
part  of  the  manors  of  Werkeworth  and  Corbrig  with  their  members  of 
Aklyngton  and  Berlyng,  and  the  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Roubiry 
with  its  members  of  Neuton,  Thorpton  and  Snyter  with  forests  etc. 
in  Northumberland,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  the 
said  Idonea,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  it  is  found  by 
divers  inquisitions,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  Idonea  at  her  death 
held  no  lands  in  those  counties  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but 
held  the  premises  in  dower  of  the  heritage  of  the  said  Henry  the  son, 
and  that  the  said  manors  of  Lekyngfeld,  Semere,  Nafferton,  Kirk- 
levyngton, Clethorp  and  Gikeleswyk,  and  the  said  part  of  the  manors 
of  Werkeworth,  Corbrig  and  Roubiry  with  their  members  are  held  in 
chief  by  knight  service,  the  manor  of  Catton  and  the  tenements  in 
Benyngton  of  others  than  the  king  ;  and  the  king  has  at  another  tinie 
taken  the  homage  of  Henry  the  son  for  the  lands  of  liLs  said  father, 
and  commanded  livery  thereof  to  be  given  him. 

Oct.  9.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order,  upon 

Westminster,  the  petition  of  William  de  Gildeford,  executor  of  Wilham  de  Farle  latQ 
constable  of  Bourdeaux,  if  assured  by  oath  of  the  petitioner  that  the 
statements  in  his  petition  are  true,  to  cause  him  to  have  allowance 
in  his  account  at  the  exchequer  of  100?.  by  the  said  William  received 
at  the  receipt  of  the  exchequer;  as  the  said  petition  shews  that  he 
received  the  said  sum  touching  his  wages  and  the  wages  of  his  men 
retained  A\itli  him  by  reason  of  his  office,  the  expenses  of  his  passage 
to  Gascony,  and  of  the  passage  of  messengers  by  him  sent  to  England 
at  the  king's  command  to  certify  the  king  of  the  state  of  his  said 
office,  which  wages  and  expenses  from  the  date  of  his  commission  to 
20  September  following,  on  which  day  he  took  over  his  said  office, 
amount  to  2001.  and  upwards,  as  may  appear  by  the  particulars 
thereof,  and  that  the  treasurer  and  barons  have  deferred  allowing  the 
same  for  that  they  were  not  controlled  by  the  king's  controller  of 
Gascony,  as  they  might  not  be  for  that  they  were  made  before  the  said 
constable  took  over  his  office,  and  the  controller  had  not  nor  might 
have  knowledge  thereof,  wherefore  the  said  executor  has  prayed  for 
remedy. 

Membrane  15. 

Oct.  6.  To  the  bailiffs  of  Herewic,  the  collectors  of  customs,  and  the  king's 

Westminster,  searchers  there.  It  is  shewn  the  king  on  behalf  of  the  merchants 
and  others  of  the  said  toMn  and  of  the  parts  adjoining  that  foreign 
merchants,  willing  to  come  thither  with  herring  and  other  fish,  come 
to  anchor  before  the  entry  of  the  port  and,  for  fear  of  the  king's  pro- 
clamation forbidding  any  man  under  pain  of  forfeiture  to  take  gold 
or  silver  out  of  the  realm  in  money,  plate  or  otherwise,  dare  not  enter 


39  EDWARD  III. 


141 


1365. 


Membrane  15 — cont. 


for  sale  of  tlioir  liorring  aiul  fish,  supy)nsing  tliat  tlioy  may  not  take 
any  money  foi-  their  nuMcliandisc  nof  vnvvy  it  to  their  own  paits,  and 
so  pass  to  Flanders  and  other  places  over  sea,  whereby  the  king  loses 
his  cnsloms,  and  the  people  of  those  parts  their  sustenance  which  in 
great  part  consists  in  victuals  so  brought,  wherefore  petition  is  made 
for  a  remedy  ;  and  whereas  in  the  last  parliament  it  was  ordered  that 
no  man  shall  cause  gold  or  silver  to  be  so  taken  out  of  the  realm,  except 
victuallers,  fishers  who  catch  herring  and  other  fish,  and  those  who 
bring  fish  into  the  realm  in  small  vessels  not  meddling  with  other 
merchandise  :  order  to  supervise  all  herring  and  fish  brought  to  the 
town  of  Herewic  there  to  be  sold,  and  the  coin  and  money  which  in 
the  sale  thereof  shall  be  received  by  alien  merchants,  making  indenture 
thereof  in  manner  due,  and  suffering  all  fishers  and  merchants  of 
foreign  parts  biinging  thither  herring  and  fish  who  meddle  not  with 
other  mei'chandise  freely  without  let  after  payment  of  the  customs 
due  thereupon  to  take  with  them  to  their  own  ports  the  money  they 
shall  receive  for  their  fish  in  the  sale  thereof  according  to  the  said 
ordinance,  the  proclamation  notwithstanding,  provided  always  that 
the  said  fishers  or  others  of  whatsoever  condition  take  not  out  of  the 
realm  by  colour  of  this  command  silver,  gold  or  other  things  contrary 
«  to  the  proclamation  over  and  above  the  money  so  received  for  sale  of 

their  herring  and  fish,  and  that  nothing  be  done  or  attempted  which 
may  tend  to  impair  the  force  of  the  proclamation. 

Oct.  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge  for  the  time  being.  Order  to  pay  to 
Wostminster.  the  king's  clerk  Nicholas  de  Roos,  warden  of  the  scholars  maintained 
by  the  king  of  his  alms  in  the  university  of  Cantebrigge,  the  arrears 
of  4d.  a  day  granted  him  for  his  wages  and  of  8  marks  a  year- granted 
him  for  two  gowns,  one  w  ith  furring  the  other  with  lining,  and  of  the 
issues  of  the  county  henceforth  to  pay  him  the  said  sums,  taking  his 
acquittance,  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent  of  12  January 
last  granting  him  the  said  sums  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  during 
pleasure. 

Oct.  12.  To  the  bailiffs  and  burgesses  of  the  towTi  of  Scardeburgh  for  the  time 
Westminster,  being.  Order  to  pay  to  the  warden  of  the  hall  of  the  king's  scholars 
whom  he  maintains  of  his  alms  at  Cantebrigge  and  to  the  scholars 
therein  the  arrears  of  221.  lis.  yearly,  and  henceforth  to  pay  them 
that  yearly  sum,  taking  the  said  warden's  acquittance,  according  to 
the  king's  letters  patent  of  4  February  in  the  38th  year  of  his  reign, 
granting  to  the  said  warden  and  scholars  among  other  things 
22/.  lis.  a  year  which  the  said  bailiffs  and  burgesses  used  to  pay  to 
the  king  for  the  farm  of  the  manor  of  Walesgrave,  to  be  taken  at 
the  accustomed  terms  until  other  order  should  be  taken  for  their 
maintenance. 


Oct.  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  Bedford  and  Bukingham  for  the  time  being.  Order 
Westminster,  to  pay  to  the  warden  of  the  hall  of  the  king's  scholars  whom  he  main- 
tains of  his  alms  at  Cantebrigge  and  to  the  scholars  therein  the  arrears 
of  201.  a  year,  and  henceforth  of  the  issues  of  those  counties  to  pay 
them  that  yearly  sum,  taking  the  said  warden's  acquittance,  according 
to  the  king's  letters  patent  of  4  February  in  the  38th  year  of  his  reign, 
granting  to  the  said  warden  and  scholars  among  other  things  20/. 


142 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1365. 


Membrane  15 — cont. 


Oct.  12. 

Westminster. 


every  year  to  be  taken  of  the  issues  of  the  said  counties  by  the  hands 
of  the  sheriff  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  until  the  king 
should  take  other  order  for  their  maintenance. 

To  the  abbot  of  Waltham  for  the  time  being.  Order  to  pay  to  the 
Avarden  of  the  hall  of  the  king's  scholars  Vvhom  he  maintains  of  his 
alms  at  Cantebrigge  and  to  the  scholars  therein  the  arrears  of  lOl.  Is. 
{sic)  a  year,  and  henceforth  to  pay  them  that  yearly  sum,  taking  the 
said  warden's  acquittance,  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent 
of  4  February  in  the  38th  year  of  his  reign,  granting  to  the  said  warden 
and  scholars  among  other  things  11.  10s.  every  year  at  the  accustomed 
terms  of  the  farm  which  the  abbot  is  bound  to  render  at  the  exchequer 
for  the  town  of  Waltham  until  the  king  should  take  other  order  for 
their  maintenance. 

Oct.  10.  To  Alice  who  was  wife  of  Alan  Horwode.  Writ  de  intendendo, 
Westminster,  directing  the  said  Alice  to  attorn  tenant  to  Richard  Ponte  and  Joan 
his  wife  for  the  rents  and  services  due  for  a  messuage  and  appurte- 
nances by  her  held  for  life  in  the  parish  of  St.  Michael  Crokedelane 
London  with  reversion  to  the  king  and  his  heirs  ;  as  the  king  by 
letters  patent  has  granted  to  the  said  Richard  and  Joap  [the  reversion] 
of  the  said  messuage  after  the  death  of  the  said  Alice. 
Et  erat  patens. 


Oct.  16. 
Westminster. 


To  the  sheriff  of  Notyngham  for  the  time  being.  Order  to  pay  to 
John  Davy  of  Shillewell  chaplain  the  arrears  of  100s.  a  year  from 
10  May  in  the  39th  year  of  the  reign,  and  henceforth  of  the  issues  of 
his  bailiwick  to  pay  him  that  yearly  sum  for  life,  taking  his  acquittance, 
according  to  the  king's  letters  patent  of  the  said  date,  giving  to  the  said 
John  for  life  the  chantry  of  the  king's  chapel  within  his  manor  of 
Clipston,  and  the  chapel  of  St.  Edwin  within  the  forest  of  Shirewode, 
taking  for  the  said  chantry  100s.  a  year  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff 
in  the  same  manner  as  other  chaplains  holding  the  same  used  to  do. 

Et  erat  patens. 

Oct.  20.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Oxford  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 
Westminster,  of  John  Pury,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Oct.  14.  To  Adam  de  Bury  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheat  or  therein. 
Westminster.  Order  to  cause  John  son  and  heir  of  John  Malewayn  tenant  in  chief 
to  have  seisin  of  the  lands  and  tenements  of  his  said  father  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  his  death  ;  as  the  said  John  the  son  has  proved  his 
age  before  the  said  mayor,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and 
fealty.  By  p.s.     [26752.] 

To'  John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Kent  and  Middlesex.     Like  order, 
as  the  said  John  ha«  proved  his  age  before  Adam  de  Bury. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

Roger  de  Wolf  ret  on  escheator  in  Essex. 

John   de   Evesham   escheator   in   the   counties   of   Suthampton, 

Wiltes  and  Berkshire. 
William  de  Otteford  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire. 

Oct.  20.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland  to  cause  a  verderer  of  the  forest 
Westminster,  of  Ingelwode  to  be  elected  instead  of  Thomas  de  Skelton,  who  is  dead. 


39    EDWARD    111. 


143 


1365.  Membrane  15 — cont. 

Oct.  20.  To  William  dc  Reygate  cschcator  in  Yorkshire.  Older  to  cause 
Wostininstor.  John  Clervaux  to  have  seisin  of  a  toft  and  five  bovates  of  land  in 
Estcouton,  held  by  William  son  of  Simon  de  Coulon  outlawed  for 
felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
eschcator,  that  the  premises  have  been  in  his  hand  for  a  year  and  a 
day,  that  the  said  AN'illiam  held  them  of  the  said  John,  that  they  arc 
yet  in  the  king's  hand,  and  that  the  eschcator  had  the  year  and  a  day 
and  the  w  aste,  and  ought  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  same. 


Nov.  4. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  14. 

To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne  for  the  time 
being.  Writ  de  intendendo,  directing  them  to  pay  to  Ingelram  de 
Coucy  and  Isabel  the  king's  daughter  his  wife  their  arrears  of 
SO/.  I65.  8d.  a  year,  and  of  the  farm  of  the  said  town  henceforth  to  pay 
them  that  yearly  sum,  accoiding  to  the  king's  letters  patent  of 
20  March  in  the  30th  year  of  his  reign,  granting  to  the  said  Isabel 
among  other  things  201.  I65.  8d.  a  year  lately  held  of  the  king's  grant 
by  Jolin  Darcy  '  le  Fitz  '  to  him  and  his  heirs  for  the  life  of  Mary 
countess  of  Pembroke,  and  in  the  king's  hands  by  John's  death  and  by 
reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  to  be  taken  by  the  hands  of  the  mayor 
and  bailiffs  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  heir  if  the  said  countess 
should  live,  and  if  the  said  heir  should  die  until  the  lawful  age  of  his 
heir  if  the  countess  should  live,  willing  and  granting  that  if  the  said 
Isabel  shouln  overlive  the  countess,  she  should  after  the  countess' 
death  take  and  have  the  said  sum  every  year  for  life  as  aforesaid 
without  rendering  anything  to  the  king  or  his  heirs  for  the  same. 

Et  erat  patens. 

The  like  wTits  to  the  following  : 

The    bailiffs    of    Scardeburgh    for    the    time    being,    concerning 

661.  a  year. 
The    sheriff    of    Notyngham    for    the    time    being,    concerning 

39  marks  IO5.  a  year. 

To  the  collectors  of  the  petty  custom  in  the  port  of  London.  Order 
to  suffer  all  cloths  purveyed  by  the  servants  of  Thomas  earl  of 
Warrewyk  to  send  to  foreign  parts  for  his  use,  when  assured  thereof 
by  oath  of  the  said  servants,  to  pass  from  that  port  without  payment 
of  custom  or  subsidy,  any  command  to  the  collectors  addressed  to  the 
contrary  notwithstanding.  By  K. 

Nov.  7.  To  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  John  Short  who  is  insufficiently  qualified  as  the  king  has 
learned. 

Nov.  14.  To  the  mayor  of  the  city  of  London.  Order  speedily  to  search  out, 
Westminster,  survey  and  assay  all  wines  of  whatsoever  sort  lodged  in  cellars  and 
taverns  of  the  said  city  and  the  suburbs,  taking  such  order  with  that 
which  is  bad,  turning,  tainted  or  discoloured  as  pertains  to  his  office, 
and  as  other  mayors  have  heretofore  been  used  to  do  until  further 
order,  sparing  none  for  favour  or  malice  ;  as  the  king  has  heard  upon 
good  information  that  these  wines  are  in  great  part  bad  or  tainted,  and 
some  will  shortly  turn  bad,  which  vintners  and  taverners  are  like  to 
mix  with  new  wines  when  they  shall  be  stored  in  their  cellars,  to  the 
peril  and  damage  of  the  people  of  the  said  city  and  of  those  resorting 
thither.  -  By  K.  and  C, 

[Foedera.] 


Sept.  3. 
Westminster. 


144  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  14 — cont. 

Oct.  8,  To  the  sheriff  of  Huntyngdon.     Order  of  the  issues  of  his  bailiwick 

Westminster,  to  cause  251.  to  be  laid  out  in  the  repair  of  the  gaol  of  the  town  of 
Huntyngdon  by  view  and  testimony  of  the  prior  of  Huntyngdon, 
over  and  above  the  20L  up  to  which  the  king  lately  ordered  the  said 
gaol  to  be  repaired  by  view  and  testimony  of  the  said  prior  upon  hearing 
that  it  was  too  weak  and  ruinous  to  be  sufficient  for  the  custody  of 
prisoners,  so  that  thieves  taken  shall  not  escape  for  lack  of  custody  ; 
as  the  king  is  informed  that  it  may  not  be  repaired  for  so  small  a 
sum.  By  K.  and  C. 

To  the  prior  of  Huntyngdon.  Order  to  survey  the  defects  of  the 
gaol  aforesaid,  and  to  supervise  the  repair  thereof,  and  the  costs 
which  shall  thereupon  be  incurred  by  Nicholas  de  Styuecle  sheriff  of 
Huntyngdon,  whom  the  king  has  ordered  to  repair  the  same  up  to 
45L,  certifying  the  same  in  chancery  under  his  seal  that  the  sheriff 
in  his  account  may  have  due  allowance  for  the  costs.  By  K.  and  C. 

Membrane  13. 

Oct.  12.  To  John  de  Bekynton  escheator  in  Somerset.  Order  to  make  a 
Westminster,  partition  into  three  parts  of  \0s.  4d.  of  rent  in  Blecchewell,  6  marks 
of  rent  taken  of  the  manor  of  Honyspill,  32s.  of  rent  in  Bedmeston, 
6s.  8d.  of  rent  in  Cosynton,  3s.  of  rent  in  Catecote,  and  the  third  part 
of  the  manor  of  Dourburgh  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  Cicely  who  was  wife  of  Stephen  Laundy,  in  presence  of  the  heirs 
and  parceners  if  upon  warning  they  will  attend,  to  keep  the  purparty 
of  Christina  wife  of  Jolui  de  C'roukerne  in  the  king's  hand  until  further 
order,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  purparties  of  Alice  wife  of 
Thomas  Orchard  and  Maud  \^ife  of  John  Wevelescombe,  delivering  up 
any  issues  taken  of  these  two  purparties  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Cicely  at  her  death 
held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held 
the  third  part  and  rents  aforesaid  of  others  than  the  king,  and  that 
the  said  Alice  and  Maud,  both  of  full  age,  and  the  said  Christina, 
who  is  within  age  and  in  the  king's  Avardship  by  reason  of  other  lands 
of  her  heritage,  are  cousins  and  next  heirs  of  the  said  Cicely. 

Oct.  2.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  and  chamberlains  of  the  exchequer 

Westminster,  of  Ireland.  Order,  on  sight  of  these  presents,  to  pay  of  the  treasury  of 
Ireland  to  John  Haukyn  the  king's  Serjeant  at  arms  the  arrears 
of  2s.  a  day  his  wages  from  the  time  he  came  to  Ireland  in  the 
retinue  of  Lionel  duke  of  Clarence  the  king's  son  and  lieutenant 
in  Ireland  so  long  as  he  shall  there  abide,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as 
the  king  lately  by  writ  ordered  the  said  treasurer  and  barons  to  pay 
the  said  John  those  wages  of  the  said  treasury  so  long  as  he  should 
there  abide  on  the  king's  service,  and  now  the  said  John  has  informed 
the  king  that  he  has  not  hitherto  been  able  to  obtain  payment  for 
that  the  writ  was  not  addressed  to  the  said  treasurer,  barons  and 
chamberlains. 

Oct.  29.         To  John  Knyvet.     Writ  appointing  him  chief  justice  to  hold  pleas 
Westminster,  before  the  king  during  pleasure.  By  K. 

[Foedera.]  , 


39    EDWARD    III.  146 


18()5.  Membrane  13 — cont. 

Oct.  30.         To  Henry  Grenc.     Odrer  to  deliver  to  Jolin  Knyvet  all  rolls,  records, 
Westminster,  proccsscvs  and  meinoiaiula  w  halsoevoi'  in   his   keeping   concerning  the 
time  that  he  \\as  ehief  justice.  13y  K. 

[Foedera.] 

Nov.  3.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Heieford  to  cause  two  coroners  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  John  Calouhill  and  Jolin  Piys,   who  arc  not  fit  persona 
to  execute  that  ofHcc  as  the  king  has  learned. 

Oct.  30.  To  Richard  de  Sutton  escheator  in  Lancashire.  Order  under  pain 
Westminster,  of  100/.,  to  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  -with  a 
messuage  and  26  acres  of  land  of  John  son  of  Richard  de  Styholmc  in 
Kynerdale,  delivering  to  the  said  John  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  lately  ordered  the  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the 
cause  therefore  the  premises  were  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand, 
and  he  returned  that  he  so  took  the  same  for  that  he  found  by  inquisition 
that  the  said  John,  who  was  outlawed  for  felony,  held  the  same  of 
Thomas  Molineux  and  Joan  his  wife  ;  and  after  at  the  suit  of  the  said 
John,  alleging  that  he  was  never  outlawed  and  praying  the  removal 
of  the  king's  hand,  the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  make  inquisition  ; 
and  by  inquisition  thereupon  taken  it  is  found  that  the  said  John  is 
not  outlawed,  and  at  the  king's  command  John  Knyvet  chief  justice 
appointed  to  hold  pleas  before  the  king  has  certified  in  chancery  that, 
after  search  made  of  the  rolls  and  memoranda  which  are  before  the 
king,  he  has  found  no  outlawry  published  against  John  son  of  Richard 
de  Stiholme. 

Oct.  16.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  dis- 
Westminster.  charge  Richard  de  Grenacres  and  Robert  de  Grenacres  knights  of  the 
keeping  of  the  castle  and  town  of  Plurimel  and  the  castle  of  Rochezanes 
in  the  parts  of  Brittany,  and  the  said  Richard  and  Robert  and  John  de 
Bukyngham  bishop  of  Lincoln  of  the  sums  of  money,  farms,  revenues, 
ransoms  and  profits  thereof  taken  ;  as  by  the  hands  of  his  yeoman 
Helmyngus  Leget,  receiver  of  his  chamber,  the  king  has  received  in  his 
chamber  500  marks  in  full  payment  of  the  moneys,  profits  etc.  aforesaid 
wherein  the  said  bishop  was  bound  when  the  king's  lieutenant  and 
guardian  in  Brittany  before  his  consecration,  and  the  said  Richard 
and  Robert  for  all  the  time  they  had  the  keeping  of  the  said  town 
and  castles,  and  the  king  by  letters  patent  has  thereof  acquitted  them, 
their  heirs  and  executors.  By  K. 

Oct.  18.  To  Richard  de  Sutton  escheator  in  Lancashire.  Order  not  to  meddle 
Westminster,  further  with  all  the  lands  which  John  de  Haveryngton  of  Farleton  at 
his  death  held  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  the  knights'  fees  which  were 
of  Robert  de  Coucy  lately  in  the  king's  hand,  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir  ;  as 
Nicliolas  son  and  heir  of  the  said  John,  tenant  by  knight  service  of 
the  king  as  of  the  fees  aforesaid,  has  proved  his  age  before  the  es- 
cheator, and  on  27  December  in  the  37tli  year  of  his  reign  the  king 
by  letters  patent  gave  to  Ingelram  lord  of  Coucy,  cousin  and  heir  of 
the  said  Robert,  all  the  knights'  fees  of  the  said  Robert  which  were 
then  in  his  hand. 

E  10 


U6  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  12. 

Nov.  1.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order,  upon  the 

Westminster,  petition  of  Richard  de  Stanhope  and  WilHam  de  Acton  collectors  of 
the  customs  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne,  to  allow  them  in 
their  account  at  the  exchequer  for  their  pains  and  expenses  a  fourth 
part  of  the  value  of  the  wool  and  other  things  by  them  arrested  as 
forfeit  to  the  king  wherewith  they  charge  themselves  in  their  said 
account,  according  to  the  ordinance  and  as  used  to  be  allowed  in  like 
case  to  others  ;  as  their  petition  shews  their  pains  and  expense  in 
making  search  in  the  said  port  that  no  wool,  woolfells  or  hides  should 
be  taken  over  therefrom  to  foreign  parts  without  payment  of  the 
custom  or  subsidy,  and  that  they  arrested  as  forfeit  certain  wool 
and  woolfells,  a  ship,  and  other  merchandise  uncustomed  laded  in 
ships  there  to  be  taken  over,  praying  to  be  thereof  contented. 

Oct.  22.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Coventre,  Thomas  de  Nassyngton, 
Westminster.  William  Wolf  and  William  de  Corby.  Order  to  stay  altogether  any 
demand  and  distraint  by  them  made  upon  men  of  religion  or  other 
ecclesiastics  for  rents  or  goods  of  their  ecclesiastical  fee  for  contri- 
bution to  the  works  of  the  town  walls,  causing  such  distraints  to  be 
released,  and  suffering  them  to  have  peace,  although  the  king, 
having  granted  licence  to  enclose  the  said  town,  lately  appointed 
them  jointly  and  severally  by  letters  patent  to  assess  and  appor- 
tion the  costs  of  the  said  works  upon  merchants  and  inhabitants 
thereof  and  others  dwelling  therein,  namely  each  according  to  his  rents 
and  means,  and  to  levy  and  collect  the  sums  so  assessed  ;  as  it  was 
not  nor  is  his  intention  that  any  assessment  should  be  made  for  that 
purpose  of  the  rents  or  goods  of  the  ecclesiastical  fee  of  men  of 
religion  or  other  ecclesiastics,  nor  that  they  should  pay  or  be  made 
to  pay  anything  of  such  their  fee.  Proviso  that  the  assessment  and 
apportionment  be  made  upon  laymen  having  rents  and  goods  in 
the   town.  By  C. 

[Feeder  a.] 

Nov.  20.  To  Lionel  duke  of  Clarence  the  king's  son  and  lieutenant  in  Ireland, 
Westminster,  the  chancellor  and  treasurer  of  Ireland.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of 
Richard  de  Stury,  to  whom  the  king  has  lately  committed  the  offices 
of  the  trial  and  keeping  of  measures  and  weights  in  Ireland,  to  cause 
those  offices  to  be  restored  and  delivered  to  the  said  Richard,  or  to 
William  Ilger  his  attorney  and  substitute  to  perform  the  same,  suffering 
the  said  William  without  let  to  execute  those  offices  ;  as  his  petition 
shews  that  the  same  are  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of 
Roger  de  Flete  late  attorney  and  representative  of  the  said  Richard. 

Nov.  20.        To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Bristol.     Order  to  cause  a  ship  in  that 

Westminster,  port  sufficient  for  the  gear  of  James  earl  of  Ormound,  which  is  to  be 

brought  and  carried  from  England  to  Ireland  by  William  Ilger  his 

attorney,  to  be  delivered  without  delay  to  the  said  William  for  the 

said  earl's  money. 

Membrane  11. 

Oct.  22.  To  William  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  to  deliver 

Westminster,  in  dower  to  Joan  who  was  wife  of   Thomas   de   Fournyvall  knight 

tenant  in  chief,  of  whom  the  king  has  taken  an  oath  that  she  will  not 

marry  without  his  licence,  the  manor  and  members,  herbage,  lands 


39  EDWARD  III.  147 


1366.  Membrane  11 — cont. 

and  rents  in  his  bailiwick  of  those  Avhich  the  king  has  assigned  to  her 
of  the  hands  of  her  said  liii.sband  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
Ills  death,  namely  the  herbage  in  Bilhagh  eo.  York  extended  at  22s. 
a  year,  certain  tenements  and  rents  in  Capell  at  OIJa'.  ()\d.,  certain 
tenements  and  rents  in  Whitley  at  104s.  8rf.,  herbage  in  the  soke  of 
Eeclesfeld  at  20s.,  certain  tenements  and  rents  within  the  soke  of  lirade- 
feld  at  43/.  IGs.  1(/.,  herbage  within  the  same  at  8  marks,  a  mill  in 
Bradefeld  at  10  marks,  certain  tenements  and  rents  [in]  Osgcrthorp 
at  32s.  82(/.,  certain  tenements  and  rents  in  Orpittes  at  22s.  l\d., 
certain  tenements  and  rents  in  Skynthoip  at  12s.  \d.,  the  manor  of 
Treton  with  its  members  etc.  at  22/.  7s.  0|rf.,  certain  tenements  and 
rents  in  Whitstan  at  6/.  18s.  M.,  all  in  the  same  county,  and  the 
manor  of  Alveton  co.  Stafford  extended  at  32/.  13c/.  a  3'^ear. 

Oct.  22.         To  Pliilip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  StafPordshire.     Order  to  deliver 
Westminster,  in  dower  to  the  said  Joan  the  manor  of  Alveton. 

Oct.  26.  To  the  chancellor  of  Ireland  for  the  time  being.     Order  to  cause 

Westminster,  dower  to  be  assigned  to  the  said  Joan  of  the  lands  of  Thomas  her 

husband  in  Ireland  ;    as  on  22  October  last  the  king  took  of  her  an 

oath  that  she  would  not  marry  without  his  licence  and  assigned  her 

dower  of  the  lands  of  her  said  husband  in  England. 

Oct.  12.  To  W^illiam  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Northumberland.  Order  to  deliver 
Westminster,  to  John  Philippot  and  Joan  his  wife  three  cottages,  fifteen  husband 
lands  and  2  acres  of  meadow  in  Saltwyk,  the  third  part  of  the  manor 
and  town  of  Ogle,  certain  tenements  in  Twysell,  the  manor  and  town 
of  Shilvyngton  except  the  18th  part  thereof,  the  third  part  of  50  acres 
of  land  in  Aldeworth,  the  third  part  of  a  messuage  and  40  acres  of  land 
and  meadows  in  Longwotton,  the  third  part  of  nine  cottages  and 
fifteen  husband  lands  in  Longwotton,  the  third  part  of  30  acres  of 
demesne  land,  three  husband  lands  and  one  fishery  in  Seton  Wodhorne, 
the  third  part  of  a  messuage,  five  cottages,  140  acres  of  demesne  land, 
4  acres  of  meadow  and  one  husband  land  in  Thirnham,the  third  part 
of  a  piece  of  land  containing  40  acres  of  land  and  8  acres  of  meadow, 
and  of  a  piece  of  several  pasture  containing  20  acres  in  le  Colepittes, 
the  thirci  part  of  one  fourth  of  the  demesne  lands  and  of  two  and  a  half 
husband  lands  in  Fulbery,  the  third  part  of  one  husband  land  in 
Northmiddelton,  the  third  part  of  eight  messuages  and  177  acres  of 
land  and  meadow  in  Bissyngton,  and  the  moiety  of  the  manor  of 
Hephalle,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Joan  who  was 
wife  of  Robert  de  Ogle  tenant  in  chief,  together  with  the  issues  thereof 
taken,  to  keep  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  Robert's  heir,  according 
to  the  king's  grant  to  them  made  by  letters  patent  of  22  October  in 
the  36th  year  of  the  reign  of  the  wardship  of  the  lands  of  Robert  de 
Ogle  which  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the 
nonage  of  Robert  son  of  Robert  de  Ogle  his  cousin  and  heir,  together 
with  all  other  lands  whereof  the  said  Robert  deOgle  and  Joan  his  wifewere 
jointly  enfeoffed  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  after  the  death 
of  Joan,  and  the  reversion  of  other  lands  held  in  dower  or  other^^ise 
for  life  of  that  heritage  (the  lands  of  Robert  Bertram  excepted)  to  hold 
until  the  lawful  age  of  Robert  son  of  Robert  son  of  Robert  de  Ogle 
without  rendering  anything  to  the  king  ;  as  now  it  is  found  by  in- 
quisition, taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Joan  who  was  wife  of 
Robert  is  dead,  that  at  her  death  she  held  the  other  premises  in  dower 


U8  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1865.  •  Membrane  11 — cont. 

of  the  heritage  of  the  said  Robert  the  heir,  and  the  said  moiety  as  jointly 
enfeoffed  with  her  said  husband  by  grant  of  Thomas  Styward  chaplain 
to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  the  said  Robert  son 
of  Robert  son  of  Robert  de  Ogle  and  of  the  said  Joan  is  next  heir  of 
Robert  and  Joan,  and  is  of  the  age  of  eleven  years  and  upwards. 

Oct.  27.  To  John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Kent.  Order  not  to  meddle  further 
Westminster,  with  two  messuages,  one  dovecot  and  21  acres  of  land  in  Letenese 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Peter  de  Wendlyngburgh 
otherwise  called  Peter  atte  Crook,  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  John 
son  and  heir  of  John  Malewayn  tenant  in  chief,  delivering  to  the  said 
John  the  son  any  issues  thereof  taken  since  14  October  last ;  as  it  is 
found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  eseheator,  that  the  said  Peter  at 
his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of 
fee,  but  held  the  premises  with  reversion  to  the  said  John  the  son,  late 
a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  that  they  are  held  of  another 
than  the  king  ;  and  on  14  October  last  the  age  of  the  said  John 
was  proved,  and  the  king  took  his  homage  and  commanded  livery  to 
be  given  him  of  the  lands  of  his  said  father. 

Membrane  10. 

Nov.  1.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  view 

Westminster,  the  rolls  and  memoranda  of  the  exchequer,  and  if  assured  by  inspection 
thereof  or  otherwise  that  the  statements  hereinafter  contained  are 
true,  to  stay  their  demand  made  by  exchequer  summons  upon  Ralph 
de  Hasty ng'  as  well  for  payment  of  120  marks  for  the  wardship  of  the 
lands  of  Hugh  Tyrell  and  the  marriage  of  his  heir  as  for  the  queen's 
gold,  thereof  discharging  at  the  exchequer  as  well  Robert  de  Herle 
as  the  said  Ralph,  his  heirs  and  executors  ;  as  on  4  December  in  the 
34th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  committed  to  Robert  de  Herle  now- 
deceased  the  wardship  of  two  thirds  of  the  lands  of  John  Tyrell  tenant 
in  chief,  which  were  in  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of 
the  nonage  of  Hugh  Tyrell  his  brother  and  heir,  rendering  to 
the  king  so  much  a  year  as  might  be  agreed  between  the  treasurer 
and  the  said  Robert ;  and  after  on  3  June  following,  for  120  marks 
to  be  by  him  paid  at  the  Michaelmas  ensuing,  the  king  committed 
to  the  same  Robert  the  wardship  of  all  lands  of  the  said  Hugh  tenant 
in  chief,  which  were  in  the  king's  hand  after  his  death  by  reason  of 
the  nonage  of  his  heir,  to  hold  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  heir, 
*     ■  and  the  marriage  of  the  heir,  without  rendering  anything  further  to 

the  king  ;  and  later  for  that  the  said  Robert  long  before  granted  and 
demised  to  William  bishop  of  Winchester  his  estate  in  the  wardship  of 
the  lands  of  John  Tyrell,  and  gave  up  in  chancery  to  be  cancelled 
the  king's  letters  patent  thereof  to  him  made,  the  king  by  letters  patent 
granted  that  the  said  bishop  should  have  the  Avardship  of  the  lands 
of  the  said  John  [with  the  issues  thereof]  taken  since  John's  death 
until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  heir,  and  the  marriage  of  the  said  Hugh, 
rendering  at  the  exchequer  80L  as  well  for  the  marriage  as  for  the 
wardship  ;  and  now  on  behalf  of  the  said  Ralph  de  Hastyng',  cousin 
and  heir  of  the  said  Robert,  it  is  shewn  the  king  that,  though  the  lands 
of  Hugh  Tyrell  contained  in  the  letters  patent  made  to  Robert  are  the 
same  as  the  lands  of  the  said  John  aaIio  was  son  and  heir  of  the  first 
named  Hugh,  the  said  letters  patent  were  obtained  in  error  and 
w  ithout  the  knowledge  of  Robert,  and  no  other  lands  of  Hugh  and 


;{0  KDWAIM)  111.  149 


13()5.  Membrane  10 — cont. 

John  caino  to  Robert's  liaiids  of  the  king's  grant,  the  treasurer  and 
barons  are  unlawfully  distraining  the  said  Ralph  in  the  lands  of  the 
said  Robert  for  payment  as  well  of  the  120  marks  aforesaid  as  of  the 
(jueen's  gold,  whereupon  he  has  prayed  for  remedy.  Proviso 
that  answer  be  nuide  to  the  king  for  the  said  SOZ.  for  wardship  of  the 
said  John's  lands  and  for  the  marriage  of  his  heir,  and  for  the  queen' .s 
iiold. 


o^ 


Nov.  G.  'To  William  de  Otteford  esoheator  in  Bedfordshire,  Bukinghamshire, 

Wosbiniiistor.  Cambridgeshire  and  Huntingdonshire.  Older  in  the  name  of  the 
king's  lordship  to  take  a  simple  seisin  within  the  gates  of  Thorney 
abbey,  now-  void  by  the  death  of  brother  William  de  Haddon  the 
last  abbot,  and  not  to  meddle  with  the  said  abbey,  its  eells,  manors, 
lands,  goods,  chattels  or  possessions,  taking  or  carrying  a\\ay  nought, 
but  suffering  the  prior  and  convent  freely  to  dispose  thereof  as  they 
shall  see  best,  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent  of  27  May  in  the 
22nd  year  of  his  reign,  granting  to  the  last  abbot  and  to  the  prior  and 
convent  of  Thorney  that  at  every  vacancy  of  the  abbey  by  death, 
cession,  resignation  of  the  abbot  or  otlier\\ise  the  prior  and  convent 
and  their  successors  should  have  the  keeping  of  the  abbey  and  the 
temporalities  thereof,  with  all  goods  and  property  thereto  belonging, 
as  fully  as  any  abbot  ever  had,  or  as  the  king  ought  to  have  if  he  kept 
the  same  in  his  hand,  saving  to  the  king  the  luaights'  fees  and  advowsons 
of  churches  during  a  vacancy,  rendering  at  the  exchequer  for  every 
vacancy  if  it  should  last  four  months  40^.,  and  if  longer  pro  rata,  so 
that  no  sheriff,  esclieator,  bailiff  or  minister  of  the  king  should  by 
reason  of  such  vacancy  meddle  with  the  keeping  of  the  abbey,  or  of  the 
cells,  manors,  granges,  property  or  goods  thereto  belonging,  except  that 
in  the  beginning  of  every  vacancy  the  esclieator  or  other  minister  of  the 
king  should  take  a  simple  seisin  in  form  aforesaid,  and  immediately 
depart  without  taking  or  carrying  aught  away  with  him,  so  that  he 
should  not  there  abide  longer  than  one  day  nor  leave  any  substitute 
in  his  room.  Proviso  that,  unless  other  command  be  given  in  the  mean 
time,  the  keeping  of  any  lands  acquired  by  the  said  abbot  and  convent 
since  the  date  above  mentioned  shall  during  this  vacancy  remain  in 
the  king's  hand. 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

Richard    de    Wydevylle     esclieator     in    Norhamptonshiro     and 
Roteland. 

John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Middlesex. 

John  de  Wyndesore  esclieator  in  Warwickshire. 

Walter  de  Kelby  esclieator  in  Lincolnsliire. 

Membrane  9. 

Nov.  22.  To  the  sheriflf  of  Northumberland.  Order  to  survey  the  defects 
Westminster,  in  houses,  walls,  towers  and  turrets  in  the  castle  of  Newcastle  upon 
Tyne,  and  to  cause  the  same  to  be  repaired  by  view  and  testimony 
of  Robert  de  Thyngden  chaplain  of  the  king's  chapel  therein,  taking 
carpenters,  masons  and  other  craftsmen  and  labourers  as  many  as 
need  be,  Avitliin  liberties  and  without,  and  putting  them  upon  the 
works  there  at  the  king's  ^ages  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  that  such 
defects  are  many,  and  the  need  of  nepair  great.  By  C. 

[Fosdera.]  ^, 


150  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order,  upon  the 
petition  of  Henry  del  Strother  sheriff  of  Northumberland,  to  view  the 
king's  two  writs  under  the  great  seal  to  the  said  sheriff  addressed, 
commanding  him  to  cause  John  Heroun  knight  and  Thomas  Rydell, 
lately  for  particular  causes  arrested  and  imprisoned  in  the  castle  of 
Newcastle  upon  Tyne,  to  be  taken  to  Knaresburgh  castle  and  delivered 
to  the  constable  thereof,  and  the  indenture  made  between  the  said 
sheriff  and  constable,  and  to  allow  the  said  sheriff  in  his  account  such 
reasonable  sum  as  by  his  oath  they  shall  be  assured  that  he  has  laid 
out  in  bringing  the  said  John  and  Thomas  thither,  taking  of  him  the 
writs  and  indenture  aforesaid  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  the  said 
sheriff  caused  them  so  to  be  brought  and  delivered  to  the  constable, 
praying  allowance  of  his  costs  so  incurred. 

Membrane  8. 

Nov.  4.  To  Lionel  duke  of  Clarence  the  king's  son  and  lieutenant  in  Ireland, 

Westminster,  and  to  the  treasurer  and  the  chamberlains  in  Ireland.  Order  to  cause 
the  offices  of  the  escheatorship  and  the  keeping  of  measures  in  Ireland, 
seized  into  the  king's  hand  by  virtue  of  his  late  command,  to  be  de- 
livered to  Richard  de  Stuiy  to  whom  the  king  by  letters  patent 
committed  the  same,  or  to  his  attorney,  suffering  the  said  Richard 
to  hold  those  offices,  exercising  them  by  himself  or  his  attorney,  and 
taking  the  issues  and  profits  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent, 
ordinances  or  commands  whatsoever  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding, 
restoring  to  the  said  Richard  without  delay  anything  by  them  levied 
or  taken  of  the  said  offices,  although  the  king  lately  commanded  them 
to  seize  into  the  king's  hand  all  lands,  rents  and  offices  of  those  abiding 
out  of  Ireland  and  not  there  residing,  so  that  the  issues  and  profits 
thereof  arising  should  be  reserved  for  the  expenses  of  furthering  the 
king's  wars  in  Ireland  for  the  safety  and  defence  thereof  ;  as  the  king 
would  shew  special  favour  to  the  said  Richard,  who  is  abiding  con- 
tinually in  his  service.  By  K. 

To  the  treasurer  and  the  chamberlains  of  the  exchequer  of  Ireland. 
Order,  upon  the  petition  of  the  king's  clerk  John  de  Troye,  treasurer 
of  Ireland,  to  account  with  him  concerning  his  fee  for  that  office,  the 
wages  of  three  men  at  arms  and  six  archers  in  his  retinue,  and  their 
reward,  and  to  cause  what  they  shall  find  due  to  him  since  24  October 
in  the  38th  year  of  the  reign  to  be  paid,  or  due  assignment  and  satis- 
faction to  be  given  him  ;  as  lately  learning  that  the  court  (placea) 
of  the  said  exchequer  was  held  at  Catherlagh,  which  is  almost  on  the 
frontier  of  the  rebel  Irish  where  was  no  safe  access  for  the  king's 
lieges  of  Ireland,  \^'hereby  the  treasurer  had  oftimes  to  remove  to  divers 
parts  of  Ireland  to  levy  the  king's  debts,  and  to  join  the  company 
of  Lionel  duke  of  Clarence  the  king's  son  and  lieutenant  in  Ireland 
in  his  progresses,  on  the  date  above  mentioned  the  king  by  letters 
patent  granted  the  said  John,  whom  on  5  September  th^n  last  he 
appointed  treasurer  in  Ireland,  that  he  should  retain  in  his 
company  at  the  king's  wages  the  men  at  arms  and  archers 
aforesaid  for  the  protection  of  his  person  during  the  time  that 
he  should  stand  in  that  office,  if  the  war  in  Ireland  should  last 
so  long  ;  and  now  the  said  John  has  prayed  the  king  for  payment 
of  the  fee,  wages  and  regard  aforesaid  from  the  date  of  the  said  letters 
.V  patent,  having  regard  to  the  loss  he  has  suffered  in  the  king's  service. 


39    EDWARD    III.  151 


13()5.  Membrane  S — cont. 

im  al'tiT  r(H-(M[)t  of  tlio  said  letters  patent,  while  crossing  the  sea  from 
England  to  Ireland,  he  lost  at  sea  by  a  storm  horses  to  the  value  of 
100  marks,  cloth,  funing,  cotters  and  all  else  that  he  then  had  to  no 
small  value  ;  and  the  king  is  fully  informed  by  Robert  de  Assheton 
chancellor  of  Ireland  that  the  said  John  suffered  tliafc  damage  while 
crossing  the  sea.  By  K. 

Dec.  17.  To  J.  archbishop  of  York.  Whereas  lately  the  archbisliop  his  pre- 
[Kinj^sJ  decessor  by  command  of  the  late  king  in  the  12th  year  of  his  reign, 
»»ig  uy-  fui-  gi-eat  and  pressing  causes  which  were  then  and  yet  are  threaten- 
ing, with  assent  of  the  suffragans,  chapters  and  clergy  of  his  province, 
for  the  advantage,  peace  and  relief  of  the  king's  subjects  toward  those 
parts,  appointed  and  laid  a  new  taxation  upon  tlie  benefices  of  the  pro- 
vince, especially  within  the  dioceses  of  Duiham  andKarlisleandin  the 
archdeaconries  [of  Richemundj  and  Cliveland  of  the  diocese  of  York, 
whereby  the  tenths  and  subsidies  granted  to  the  king  by  the  popes 
and  by  the  clergy  of  the  province  and  laid  upon  the  said  clergy  by  the 
popes  in  time  past  were  demanded,  collected  and  levied  and  the  king 
and  popes  were  contented,  and  likewise  in  payments  of  first  fruits 
reserved  to  the  pope's  chamber  was  the  said  new  taxation  accepted 
and  approved  in  the  coui't  of  Rome  without  contradiction,  never- 
theless William  de  Dalton  clerk,  not  considering  the  prejudice  that 
might  happen  to  all  the  clergy  by  the  approval  of  the  ancient  taxa- 
tion and  the  annulment  of  the  new  one,  has  sued  until  he  has  obtained 
two  definitive  sentences  touching  the  ancient  taxation,  which  exceeds 
the  new  taxation  by  a  great  deal,  notwithstanding  that  in  all  causes 
ventilated  in  like  manner  in  the  court  of  Rome  in  times  past,  from 
the  imposition  of  the  new  taxation  until  the  present  controversy, 
sentences  have  been  adjudged  in  favour  of  the  new  and  against  the 
ancient  taxation,  to  save  harmless  the  clergy  towards  the  said  parties, 
who  would  be  unbearably  charged  if  the  ancient  taxation  were 
running  and  the  new  taxation  used  for  40  years  and  more  Avere 
annulled,  and  to  resist  the  loss  which  might  probably  arise,  especially 
by  the  excessive  carrying  of  treasure  out  of  the  realm  according 
to  the  ancient  taxation,  which  would  amount  to  twice  as  much  as 
in  past  times  ;  order  to  assemble  together  before  the  archbishop 
as  speedily  as  may  be  at  a  day  and  place  to  be  by  him  appointed 
the  abbots,  priors,  archdeacons,  deans,  rectors,  vicars  and  other 
beneficed  clerks  of  the  archdeaconries  of  Richemund  and  Cliveland 
whom  the  business  may  concern  and  whose  presence  is  needful 
in  the  case,  to  cause  the  premises  to  be  laid  before  them  oii 
behalf  of  the  king  and  the  archbishop,  charging  them  by  mature 
deliberation  to  inform  themselves  concerning  the  prejudice  that 
may  happen  by  annulment  of  the  new  taxation,  and  what  remedy  is 
to  be  applied,  and  warning  two  or  three  fit  persons  of  those  arch- 
deaconries having  full  powers  from  the  clergy  to  draw  toward  the  king 
and  council  at  Westminster  so  as  to  be  there  in  the  quinzaine  of  St. 
Hilary  next,  to  report  the  advice  and  deliberation  of  the  said  archbishop 
and  clergy  touching  the  premises  and  that  which  hangs  thereupon, 
and  to  inform  the  king  and  council  concerning  the  whole  business, 
so  that  information  had  by  deliberation  of  the  learned  of  the  council 
the  king  may  order  what  shall  seem  best  for  the  advantage  and  peace 
of  his  subjects  agairist  iliese  subtle  inventions  contrived  to  defeat 
the  said  new  taxation.  By  p.s.  [26807]. 

Et  erat  patens. 

[Foedera.'\ 


152 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  8 — cont. 

To  Th[omas]  bishop  of  Diirham.     Like  order,   mutatis    mutandis. 
The  Hke  to  Th[omas]  bishop  of  Karlisle. 

{Foedera.'] 

Dec.    6.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  tlie  exchequer.     Order  to  cause 

Westminster.  Guy  de  Boys  late  sheriff  of  Essex  and  Hertford  to  be  discharged  at 

the  exchequer  of  40L  of  the  arrears  of  his  account  for  the  time  that 

he  was  sheriff,  so  that  he  answer  for  the  residue  thereof  ;   as  the  king 

of  his  favour  has  pardoned  him  that  sum.  By  K. 

Membrane  7. 

Nov.  23.  To  the  sheriff  of  Northumberland.  Order  to  cause  20  marks  for 
Westminster,  the  last  year's  maintenance  of  Joan  who  was  \\  ife  of  Thomas  de  Heton, 
imprisoned  in  the  Tower  of  London  for  particular  causes,  to  be  levied 
of  her  lands  and  chattels  and  delivered  to  Thomas  de  la  Vaclie,  lieuten- 
ant of  Richard  de  la  Vache  keeper  of  the  said  Tower,  taking  his 
acquittance.  By  K. 

Nov.  24.  To  John  de  Norffolk  the  king's  searcher  in  the  town  of  Calais.  Order 
Westminster,  to  dearrest  and  deliver  to  Peter  Pro  van  and  William  le  Venoure  of 
London  certain  wool  of  theirs  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand  ; 
as  the  king  ordered  the  said  searcher  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause 
wherefore  the  same  was  by  him  taken,  and  he  certified  that  he  arrested 
it  as  forfeit  for  that  it  seemed  to  him  to  weigh  more  than  in  the  letters 
of  cocket,  whereof  he  sent  a  copy  with  his  certificate  ;  and  after  viewing 
the  copy  of  the  said  letters,  made  at  Kaermerdyn  in  Wales  under  the 
seal  of  Edward  prince  of  Aquitaine  and  Wales,  it  seems  to  the  council 
that  the  wool  is  of  Wales,  the  forfeiture  whereof  would  not  pertain 
to  the  king,  if  any  forfeiture  ought  to  be  made. 

Nov.  25.  To  Leo  de  Perton  escheator  in  Worcestershire.  Order  to  cause 
Westminster.  John  de  Herle  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  daughter  and  heir  of  Robert 
Wyard  and  cousin  and  heir  of  John  Wyard  tenants  in  chief,  to  have 
seisin  of  the  lands  of  the  said  Robert  and  John  Wyard  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  their  death  ;  as  the  said  Elizabeth  has  proved  her 
age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  the  fealty  of  John 
her  husband  for  the  said  lands. 

To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Oxfordshire.     Like  order,  as  the 
said  Elizabeth  has  proved  her  age  before  Leo  de  Perton. 

Nov.  12.  To  Richard  de  Wydeville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.  Order 
Westminster,  to  remove  [the  king's  hand],  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage, 
two  thirds  of  40  acres  of  land,  3  roods  of  meadow  in  Irtlyngburgh,  a 
messuage,  two  thirds  of  80  acres  of  land,  and  3  acres  of  meadow  in 
Raundes,  delivering  to  Joan  late  the  wife  of  William  son  of  William 
le  Botiller  of  Hardemede  any  issues  thereof  taken  since  her  husband's 
death  ;  as  the  king  lately  ordered  the  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery 
the  cause  wherefore  the  lands  of  the  said  William  the  son  and  Joan  in 
Irtlyngbourgh  and  Raundes  were  by  him  taken  into  the  king's 
hand,  and  he  returned  that  he  so  took  the  premises  for  that 
it  was  found  by  inquisition,  before  him  taken  of  his  office,  that 
the  said  William  Mas  taken  and  indicted  for  divers  felonies 
before     Henry     Grene     then     chief    justice     at    Westminster    one 


.-^O  KDWAIU)  III.  153 


1305,  Metubrane  7 — cont. 

luonlh  aitt-r  Easier  in  tho  37th  year  of  the  reij^ii,  and  was 
as  a  clerk  convict  delivered  to  the  abbot  of  Westminster  the 
ordinary,  and  that  the  premises  are  held  of  others  than  the  king  ;  and 
by  eertitieate  of  the  said  abbot,  sent  into  ehaiieery  at  tlie  king's  com- 
mand, it  is  found  that  the  said  William,  who  was  to  him  delivered  as 
aforesaid  according  to  the  benefit  of  clergy,  on  12  May  in  the  3Sth 
year  died  a  natural  death  in  the  abbot's  prison  of  Westminster. 

Membrane  6. 

July  16.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne. 
Westminster.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Lawrence  do  Spense  and  other  merchants 
of  Scotland,  if  assured  that  the  facts  stated  in  their  petition  are  true, 
to  suffer  the  said  merchants  to  take  their  wool  laded  in  two 
ships  called  la  Stint  John  of  Lesclusc,  John  White  mastcir, 
and  la  James  of  Lenne,  Thomas  Hervy  master,  and  the  residue 
of  their  goods  salved,  in  the  said  ships  or  other  ships  from 
the  said  port  to  Flanders  without  payment  of  custom  and  subsidy  ; 
as  the  said  petition  shews  that  they  laded  a  ship  at  the  toA\n 
of  St.  John  Pert  in  Scotland  with  wool,  hides,  woolfells  and 
other  merchandise  of  the  growth  of  Scotland  to  take  them  to  Flanders, 
and  there  customed  the  same,  that  the  said  ship  in  its  voyage  thither 
at  sea  was  by  a  storm  wrecked  at  Whitbernes  within  the  bounds  of  the 
said  port,  that  the  merchants  and  seamen  escaped  alive  to  land,  that 
some  of  those  goods  are  cast  ashore  and  salved,  and  that  10  sacks  and 
20  cloves  of  wool  thereof  in  the  hand  of  Ellis  Tirwdiit  attorney  of 
the  petitioners  are  laded  in  la  Seint  Johan,  and  15  sacks  and  2  cloves  of 
wool  in  la  James,  and  the  residue  so  salved  remains  yet  in  the  keeping 
of  the  said  Ellis.  Proviso  that  wool,  hides,  woolfells  or  other 
merchandise  of  the  growth  of  England  shall  not  by  colour  of  this 
command  be  taken  over  to  foreign  parts  in  the  said  ships.         By  C. 

Oct.  26.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne, 
Westminster,  and  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  thereof.  Order,  upon  the 
petition  of  William  bishop  of  St.  Andrews  and  other  envoys  of  Scotland 
who  have  now  for  particular  causes  come  to  the  king,  to  dearrest  a  ship 
laded  with  goods  of  merchants  of  Scotland  by  them  arrested  and  the 
goods  therein,  suffering  the  master  and  seamen  thereof  freely 
to  pass  therewith  whither  they  will  without  payment  of  custom 
if,  as  the  petitioners  allege,  the  said  ship  touched  at  that  port  for  fear  of 
a  storm,  and  none  of  the  goods  have  been  there  unladed  or  exposed 
for  sale  ;  as  the  petition  shews  that  the  mayor,  bailiffs  and  collectors 
are  demanding  35.  a  pound  of  the  said  goods,  and  are  unlawfully 
detaining  ship  and  goods  under  arrest  until  the  money  is  paid. 

The  hke,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  the  mayor  and  bailiffs   of   Berewic 
upon  Twede. 

Nov.  4.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  stay 

their  demand  made  by  exchequer  summons  upon  the  prior  of  Burstall, 

an  alien  of  the  power  of  France,  for  arrears  of  the  farm  of  his  lands, 
or  for  the  apport  which  he  was  bound  to  make  to  his  superior  house 
in  France,  for  the  time  the  said  lands  were  in  the  hand  of  the  late 
king  or  of  the  now  king  by  reason  of  the  war  between  the  late 
king  and  the  then  king  of  France,  discharging  him  thereof  ;  as  on 
4    February    in    the    first    year    of     his    reign   the   king    rendered 


154 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  6 — cont. 

to  all  the  alien  religious  of  the  poAver  of  France  all  their  lands,  fees, 
advo-vvsons,  goods  and  chattels  taken  into  the  king's  hand  for  the 
cause  aforesaid  and  to  them  committed  for  set  farms,  pardoning  them 
the  arrears  of  such  farms. 


Nov.  25.^ 

Westminster. 


To  Philip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  Gloucestershire,  Herefordshire, 
Salop  and  Staffordshire  and  in  the  march  of  Wales  adjoining.  Order, 
if  the  advowson  of  the  abbey  of  St.  Augustine  Bristol,  now  void  it  is 
said,  pertains  to  the  castle,  town  and  barton  of  Bristol,  to  remove  the 
king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  lands  to  the  said 
abbey  pertaining,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king 
by  letters  patent  has  granted  to  Queen  Philippa  in  doA\'er  or  otherwise 
for  life  the  said  castle  and  town  with  the  barton  there  together  with 
the  knights'  fees,  advowsons  of  abbeys,  priories,  churches  and  chapels 
etc.  thereto  pertaining. 


Nov.  2. 


To  Richard  de  Wydeville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.  Older  to 
Westminster,  cause  Thomas  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Braunfeld,  tenant  by  kuight 
service  of  the  king  as  of  the  fees  of  Chokes  \^hich  are  in  his  hand,  to 
have  seisin  as  well  of  the  lands  w  Inch  his  said  father  held  in  his  demesne 
as  of  fee  as  of  those  which  Joan  who  was  wife  of  his  said  father  held 
in  dower  or  otherwise  for  life  of  his  heritage,  and  which  by  their  death 
are  taken  into  the  king's  hand  ;  as  the  said  Thomas  has  proved  his 
age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and 
fealty  for  all  the  lands  aforesaid.  By  p.s.   [26772.] 

Nov.  25.        To  Philip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  Gloucestershire  etc.     Order  to 
Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  lands  of  the 
abbey  of  St.  Augustine  Bristol  {as  above). 


Membrane  5. 

Nov.  15.  To  Lionel  duke  of  Clarence  the  king's  son  and  lieutenant  in  Ireland, 
Westminster,  the  justiciary  of  Ireland,  and  the  justices  appointed  to  hold  pleas  in 
Ireland  following  the  said  lieutenant.  Order  to  view  a  record  and 
process  which  the  king  is  sending  them,  to  call  before  them  with  all 
speed  the  king's  justices  and  Serjeants  of  Ireland  and  others  of  his 
council  M'hom  they  shall  see  fit,  and  cause  inquisition  to  be 
made  of  the  truth  touching  the  matters  hereinafter  recited, 
sending  the  inquisition  so  made  to  the  chancery  of  England  under 
the  seal  used  in  Ireland,  and  sending  again  tliis  writ ;  as  lately,  on  the 
finding  of  an  inquisition  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  Nicholas 
de  Bekenesfeld  late  escheator  in  Ireland  and  returned  in  the  chancery  of 
England,  that  John  Mautravers  the  younger  at  his  death  held  for  life 
the  manor  of  Rathgell  co.  Lymerik  in  chief  by  knight  service  of  the 
demise  of  John  Mautravers  the  elder  with  reversion  to  the  said  John 
the  elder  and  to  his  heirs,  at  the  suit  of  the  said  John  the  elder  in 
chancery  in  the  octaves  of  the  Purification  in  the  37th  year  of  the  reign, 
alleging  that  the  said  manor  is  held  of  the  countess  Dessemund  as 
of  her  manor  of  Inskisty  and  not  in  chief,  the  king  sent  the  record  and 
process  of  the  business  to  be  debated  before  the  justices  appointed  to 
hold  pleas  followingthesaid  justiciary,  for  that  it  was  before  him  alleged 
as  aforesaid  that  the  same  is  held  of  the  Idng,  and  was  without  the 
king's  licence  ahened  by  the  said  John  the  elder  to  the  said  John  the 
younger  for  life,  and  in  the  mean  time  by  letters  patent  committed 


39  EDWARD  TIT.  155 


I 


13G5.  Membrane  5 — cont. 

the  keeping  tlicreof  to  John  the  elder  aooordiiig  to  the  statute,  so  that 
he  should  answer  at  the  exehequer  of  Dublin  for  the  issues  or  the 
value  thereof  if  it  should  be  adjudged  that  the  said  manor  or  the  keeping 
thereof  ought  to  pertain  to  the  king  ;  and  now  on  belialf  of  John  do 
Keynes  knight  and  Joan  his  \\  ife  one  of  the  cousins  and  lieirs  of  John 
Mautravers  the  elder,  John  Darundell  and  Eleanor  his  wife  the  other 
cousin  and  heir,  and  Agnes  who  was  wife  and  is  executrix  of  the  said 
John  the  elder,  petition  is  made  to  the  king  to  send  the  said  record 
and  ])rocess  (given  up  to'  the  king  in  chancery  under  his  seal  by  the 
said  lieirs)  to  be  debated  in  the  court  of  Ireland  before  the  lieutenant, 
justiciary  and  justices  aforesaid,  and  meantime  to  stay  the  dis- 
traint made  upon  the  said  Agnes  to  render  an  account  in  the  exchequer 
of  England  of  the  said  issues  or  value  for  the  time  the  manor  was  in  the 
handof  John  the  elder  by  the  king's  said  commission,  as  John  the  elder 
died  before  he  could  come  to  Ireland  for  execution,  and  after  his  death 
the  manor  is  taken  into  the  Idng's  hand  and  the  said  Agnes  by 
exchequer  summons  is  distrained  as  aforesaid.  The  king  has  com- 
manded the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  of  England 
to  stay  until  Michaelmas  next  their  distraint  made  by  exchequer 
summons  upon  the  said  executrix  to  render  account  there. 

Nov.  24.  To  Leo  de  Perton  escheator  in  Worcestershire.  Order  not  to  meddle 
Westmiiistor.  further  with  a  messuage,  one  carucate  of  land  and  SOs.  of  rent  in  Little 
Sapy  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Elizabeth  who  was  wife 
of  William  Pychard,  delivering  to  Walter  son  and  heir  of  Hugh  do 
Cokeseye  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Elizabeth  at  her  death  held  no 
lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service, 
but  held  the  premises  for  life  of  others  than  the  king,  with  remainder 
to  the  right  heirs  of  the  said  Hugh,  whose  heir  was  then  a  minor  in 
the  king's  wardship  ;  and  on  10  July  last  the  age  of  the  said  Walter 
was  proved,  the  king  took  his  homage  and  fealty,  and  commanded 
livery  to  be  given  him  of  his  father's  lands. 

Dec.  5.  To   Roger   de   Wolfreton   escheator  in  Norffolk.     Order  to   cause 

Westminster.  William  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Ulveston  tenant  in  chief  to  have 

seisin  of  the  lands  of  his  said  father  taken  into  the   king's   hand  by 

his  death ;     as  he  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the 

king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.    [26797.] 

Dec.  16.         To    all  and  singular  the  canons  and  chapter  of  York,  and  others 
Westminster,  to  whom  etc.     Wliereas  lately,  for  urgent  causes  affecting  the  king 
and  realm,  the  king  by  divers  letters  commanded  his  clerk  Master 
John  de  Branketre  treasurer  and  canon  of  the  said  church,  notwith- 
standing his  residence  there  begun  and  for  some  time  continued,  to 
repair  to  the  king  and  council  in  London  to  do  what  sliould  there 
from  time  to  time  be  ordered,  and  thenceforward  to  abide  upon  ser>vice 
of  the  king  and  commonwealth  so  long  as  need  be  ;    and  wliereas  the 
said  clerk  AAas  continually  on  the  said  service  from  15  October  last, 
on  which  day  he  departed  from  the  city  of  York  for  that  cause  as  the 
king  has  learned,  coming  to  London  on  the  Monday  after,  and  will 
so  be  until  after  this  date  he  shall  return  to  the  church  of  York  to  resume 
and  complete  his  residence  ;  and  whereas  it  is  contrary  to  reason  that 
the  said  clerk  should  take  hurt  or  loss  by  reason  of  the  king's  service, 


156  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  5 — cont. 

which  ought  to  bring  him  advantage  and  honour :  and  \\hereas  the  king 
and  his  forefathers  ever  had  a  special  prerogative  that  all  beneficed 
clerks  of  whatsoever  estate  even  if  of  pontifical  dignity  being  on  the 
king's  service  should  take  the  fruits,  rents  and  proventions  of  every  their 
benefices  in  whatsoever  churches  or  places  the  same  were  as  fully  as  if  in 
residence,  which  prerogative  the  king  has  heretofore  used  and  purposes  to 
use  in  future  so  often  as  he  shall  need  the  ministry  and  service  of  such 
clerks  :  order,  upon  their  allegiance,  to  reckon  in  the  said  clerk's  great 
and  first  residence,  which  he  began,  all  the  time  that  he  was  absent  from 
the  church  of  Yorkupontheserviceof  the  king  and  commonwealth,  and 
to  allow  him  the  same  as  if  he  had  been  in  residence  the  whole  time,  takin  g 
from  him  no  advantage  of  residence  by  reason  of  such  absence,  or 
laying  upon  him  no  blame  or  hurt,  but  dealing  graciously  with  him 
as  they  would  escape  the  king's  wrath,  knowing  assuredly  that  the 
king's  purpose  is  in  his  right  as  king  and  patron  of  the  said  church 
to  exercise  his  said  prerogative  in  the  person  of  the  said  clerk,  the 
statutes  and  customs  of  their  church  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding, 
whereto  the  king  will  not  be  subject,  nor  suffer  his  dignity  and 
prerogative  to  be  restrained.  Dated  Westminster  palace,  16  December, 
under  the  great  seal.  By  K.  and  C. 

Et  erat  patens. 

Nov.  20.        Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Essex  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 
Westminster,  of  John  Viel,  who  is  dead. 

Nov.  4.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  York  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  Thomas  de  Lokton,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Nov.  3.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  William  Pertrich,  who  is  dead. 

Nov.  12.        Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be   elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Tliomas  son  of  John  Rightwys  of    Bishops  Lenne,  who  is 
dead. 

Nov.  14.        Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Warrewyk  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Alexander  de  Bercheston,  who  is  insufficiently  quahfied. 

Dec.  18.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Oxford  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 
Westminster,  of  John  Crouk,  who  is  dead. 

Nov.  24.        To  the  sheriff  of  Northumberland.     Order  to  cause  20  marks  to  be 

Westminster,  levied  for  the  maintenance  of  Joan  ^ho  was  wiie  of  Thomas  de  Heton, 

imprisoned  in  the  Tower,  and  to  be  delivered  to  Thomas  de  la  Vache 

(as  above,  p.  152,  where  the  date  is  Nov.  23).  By  C. 

Nov.  14.  To  John  Knyvet  and  his  felloes,  justices  ajDpointed  to  hold  pleas 
Westminster,  before  the  king.  Order  to  stay  altogether  until  further  order  the 
processes  touching  presentments  or  inquisitions  begun  before  Henry  de 
Grene  and  his  fellows,  late  justices,  concerning  pui-prestures,  enclosures, 
^^  orks  {manuopera)  and  obstructions  made  by  Lionel  de  Bradenham  in  the 
arms  of  the  sea  and  waters  hereinafter  mentioned,  concerning  wliich 
a  judgment  -was  given  before  Robert  de  Herle  late  the  king's  admiral  ; 
as  on  the  finding  of  divers  inquisitions,  taken  before  the  said  admiral, 


39  EDWAIU)  III. 


157 


13G5.  Membrane  5 — cont. 

tliat  the  said  Lionel  and  otlicrs  made  divers  purpresiures,  stoppages 
and  obstniolions  by  raising  weirs,  driving  stakes,  enclosures  and  oIIhm- 
works  in  the  arms  of  tlie  sea,  waters  and  fle(>ts  of  the  Swyn, 
Southgedeneye,  Parrokliete  and  Skyblioke  and  in  other  waters  flowing 
d(wn  to  tlie  jiort  of  Colcestre,  it  was  by  due  process  lately  decided 
before  the  said  adniiial  that  all  such  stakes,  enclosures,  weirs  and 
works  should  be  drawn  out  and  altogether  removed,  so  that 
henceforA\ aid  no  man  sliould  make  any  in  the  said  port,  waters  or 
arms  of  the  sea  against  his  own  land  or  elsewhere  further  than  he  may 
depasture  his  cattle  upon  his  own  soil,  as  is  found  by  the  record  and 
pi'ocess  which  the  king  has  caused  to  come  before  him  in  chancery  ; 
and  now  the  king  has  learned  that  divers  presentments  and  inquisitions 
touching  the  same  were  made  before  the  said  late  justices,  certain 
persons  suing  for  the  removal  thereof,  and  the  king's  will  is  that  the 
judgment  given  by  the  said  admiral  shall  remain  in  force. 

Membrane  4. 

Dec.  3.  To  Thomas  Cheyne  escheator  in  Davon.     Order  to  cause  William 

Westminster,  de  Astliorp  and  Margaret  his  wife,  one  of  the  daughters  and  heirs  of 
Oliver  de  Dynham  tenant  in  chief,  to  have  seisin  of  all  the  lands  of  her 
said  father  which  came  to  the  king's  hands  by  his  death  and  by  reason 
of  the  nonage  of  his  heirs  and  are  so  in  his  hand  ;  as  the  said  Margaret 
has  proved  her  age  before  the  escheator,  and  it  is  found  by  divers 
inquisitions,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  Ellen  and  Elizabeth  the  other 
daughters  and  heirs  of  the  said  Oliver  while  ^^'ithin  age  and  in  the 
king's  wardship  have  taken  the  habit  of  religion,  namely  Ellen  in  the 
priory  of  the  nuns  of  Buklond  and  Elizabeth  in  the  priory  of  the  nuns 
of  Watton,  and  that  the  said  Margaret  their  sister  is  their  next  heir 
and  of  full  age,  and  the  king  has  taken  the  fealty  of  the  said  William 
for  the  lands  of  the  said  Oliver. 


To  John  de  Bekynton  escheator  in  Somerset.     Like  order 
said  Margaret  has  proved  her  age  before  Thomas  Cheyne. 


as  the 


Nov.  29.  To  Philip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.  Order  not  to 
Westminstor.  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Stoke  Archer  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  Thomas  de  Barkeleye  of  Cubberleye  knight, 
delivering  to  Joan  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Thomas 
at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  nor  of  any  other 
in  demesne  nor  in  service,  but  held  the  said  manor  of  the  heritage  of 
the  said  Joan  in  chief  by  the  service  of  finding  one  archer  to  the  king's 
war  within  the  four  seas  of  England. 

Dec.  18.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition 
Westminster,  of  the  master  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Giles  ^\•ithout  London,  ^\■hich  is  of 
the  king's  patronage  founded  by  the  alms  of  his  forefathers  kings  of 
England  it  is  said,  to  be  aiding  the  said  master  as  often  as  need  be, 
and  whenever  by  him  required,  by  distraints  and  other  lawful  me-ans, 
where  he  himself  is  not  sufficient  for  levying  all  the  rents  which  he 
may  reasonably  shew  to  be  due  to  the  saicl  hospital,  so  that  he  may  do 
alms  and  other  works  of  piety  there  as  he  is  bound  to  do  ;  as  his 
petition  shews  that  rents  are  due  to  the  said  hospital  in  the  city  of 


158  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  4 — cont. 

Liondon,  and  that  he  is  not  sufficient  for  levying  the  same  noi',  unless 
they  be  paid,  for  doing  the  alms  and  Avorks  of  piety  -which  he  is  bound 
to  do  for  the  king's  health  and  for  the  souls  of  hi?  forefathers.  By  C. 

Et  erat  patens. 

1366. 

Jan.  L5.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Dertmuth.  Order  to  cause  all  wines 
Westminster,  of  Osye,  Algarbe  or  of  Spain  by  them  inconsiderately  arrested  to  be 
dearrestod,  suffering  certain  burgesses  of  the  said  town  trafficking  with 
wines  therein  who  brought  them  thither  freely  to  make  their  advantage 
thereof,  and  all  merchants  and  others  to  bring  into  the  realm  wines  of 
Spain,  Gascony  and  all  other  that  are  not  sweet  wines,  and  make 
their  advantage  of  them  as  heretofore  used  to  be  done,  so  that  they 
pay  the  customs  due  ;  as  lately  for  particular  causes  the  king  ordered 
the  mayor  and  bailiffs  to  cause  all  cellars  or  houses  -vA'herein  sweet 
wines  and  no  others  are  stored  for  sale  to  be  closed  and  kept  closed, 
and  if  s\^ eet  wines  were  stored  \Aith  other  wines  in  any  house  to  cause 
them  to  be  put  asunder,  the  sweet  wines  or  else  the  others  being  taken 
out  therefrom,  and  the  cellars  or  hoiises  in  which  the  former  are  stored 
closed,  so  that  the  sweet  wines  should  in  no  wise  be  sold  nor  taken 
thence  until  further  order  ;  and  now  on  behalf  of  the  said  burgesses  it 
is  shewn  the  king  that  the  mayor  and  bailiffs,  scheming  to  grieve  them, 
have  by  colour  of  that  command  arrested  the  wines  aforesaid  which 
they  brought  thitlier  for  the  use  of  the  town,  and  are  keeping  them 
under  arrest  as  if  they  were  sweet  wines  though  they  are  not ;  and  it  is 
not  the  king's  intent  that  such  wines  should  be  called  or  reputed  sweet 
Avines.  By  C. 

[Focdera.] 

Membrane  2* 

Jan.  20.  To  Leo  de  Perton  escheator  in  Worcestershire.  Order  to  assign  to 
Westminster.  Constance  who  was  wife  of  Walter  de  Ribbesford,  tenant  by  knight 
service  of  the  heir  of  Roger  de  Mortuo  Mari  earl  of  March  tenant  in  chief 
a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  her  dower  of  the  lands  of  her  said 
husband  which  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the 
nonage  of  his  heir,  sending  the  assignment  under  his  seal  to  be  enrolled 
in  chancery. 

To  the  same.  Order  to  keep  the  manor  of  Ribbesford  in  the  king's 
hand  until  further  order,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  one  messuage, 
seven  cottages,  one  dovecot,  one  carucate  and  one  virgate  of  land,  3  acres 
of  meadow,  3  acres  of  pasture,  a  small  wood  and  56.9.  of  rent  at  la  Rook 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  ^^'^alter  de  Ribbesford 
knight,  delivering  up  any  issues  of  these  last  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Walter 
at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  coxmty  in  cliief,  but  held  the  said 
manor  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  by  knight  service  of  the  heir  of 
Roger  de  Mortuo  Mari  earl  of  March  tenant  in  chief,  a  minor  in  the 
king's  wardship,  and  the  premises  at  la  Rook  of  Thomas  Loweches  by 
socage,  namely  by  the  service  of  rendering  \d.  or  one  pair  of  gloves  a 
year  at  Michaelmas  for  all  service,  and  that  Walter  son  of  the  said 
Walter  is  his  next  heir,  and  of  the  age  oE  two  years  and  a  half. 

*  Membrane  3  is  blank. 


39  EDWARD  III.  159 


1366^  Membrane  1. 

Jan.  20.  To  Reynold  do  Sholdliani  the  king's  searohor  in  the  port  of  London. 
Wostiuinstor.  Order  to  dearrost  one  tun  of  nieichandise  and  a  ship  of  Fabian  Kym 
a  native  seaman,  causing  the  said  tun  to  be  lestored  to  Kustace  de 
Bergh  niercliant  of  Rrugcs  in  Fhinders,  and  tlie  ship  to  the  said  master 
to  make  his  advantage  tliereof  ;  as  the  king  lately  ordered  the  searcher 
to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  lie  ariestcd  one  pipe  of  the 
said  niercliant  with  divers  merchandise,  and  he  signified  that  on 
24  October  last  among  divers  merchandise  customed  and  landed  in 
the  said  port  he  found  the  said  tun  unladed  from  the  said  ship  and  not 
customed,  and  arrested  the  same  and  the  ship  as  forfeit  to  the  king  ; 
and  by  examination  made  before  the  council  in  the  searcher's  presence  it 
is  found  that  the  said  tun  was  in  ignorance  drawn  forth  and  put  ashore 
by  seamen  of  the  said  ship  without  the  knowledge,  command  and 
will  of  the  merchant  to  whom  it  belongs  and  of  the  shipmaster. 

Jan.  12.         To  the  constable  of  Rokyngham  castle  or  to  his  lieutenant.     Order, 

Westminster,  under  pain  of  forfeiture  of  ],000L,  to  receive  by  indenture  of  Richard 

de  Imworth  and  Robert  de  Appelby  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms  or 

one  of  them  Adam  Robelyn  clerk,  \^'hom  they  or  one  of  them  shall 

deliver  to  the  said  constable  at  the  king's  command,  and  to  keep  him 

in  safe  custodjc  in  the  prison  of  the  said  castle  until  further  order, 

so  that  no  man  without  the  king's  special  command  shall  hold  converse 

with  him  except  the  said  constable  or   lieutenant  and  their  sworn 

ministers.         By  K.  on  the  information  of  John  de  la  Lee  steward  of 

the  king's  household. 

The  like  to  the  constable  of  Tykhull  castle,  to  receive  Hugh  Carles 

clerk.  By  K.,  as  above. 

The  like  to  the  constable  of  Knaresburgh  castle,  to  receive  Robert 

de  Grymeston  clerk.  By  K.,  as  above. 

To  Richard  de  la  Vaclie  keeper  of  the  Tower  of  London,  or  to  his 
lieutenant.  Order  to  deliver  by  indenture  to  Richard  de  Imworth 
and  Robert  de  Appelby  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  to  whom  command 
has  been  given  to  receive  them  and  take  them  whither  the  king  has 
ordered,  Adam  Robelyn,  Robert  de  Grymeston  and  Hugh  Carles 
clerks,   imprisoned  in  the  said  Tower  at  the  king's  command. 

By  K.,  as  above. 

1365.  Membrane  37d. 

Writing  of  Robert  Upton  of  Eylesford,  granting  to  Robert  Botiller, 
Thomas  Saundres  clerk  and  John  Baker  chaplain,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  a  rent  of  20.s\  to  be  taken  yearly  of  a  messuage  in  the  parish 
of  St.  Margaret  in  Suthwerk  and  all  the  lands  which  the  grantor  had 
in  Surrey,  by  him  lately  given  to  Richard  Baylay,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
subject  to  the  said  rent  payable  yearly  at  Christmas,  with  power  to 
distrain  for  arrears.  Dated  Suthwerk,  Sunday  after  the  Conversion 
of  St.  Paul  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster 
28  January. 

Indenture  witnessing  that  Robert  de  Upton  of  Eylisford  has  granted 
to  Robert  Botiller,  Thomas  Saundres  clerk  and  John  Bakere  chaplain, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  during  the  life  of  Godelef  his  wife,  a  yearly  rent 


160 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365. 


Membrane  Zld — cont. 


of  L3,s.  4t?.  of  all  his  lands  in  the  town  of  Eylisford  co.  Kent  to  be  taken 
at  Midsummer,  upon  condition  that  if  after  his  death  the  said  Godelef 
shall  sue  writ  of  dower  against  the  tenants  thereof  concerning  a 
messuage  in  the  parish  of  St.  Margaret  in'  Southwerk  which  Richard 
Bayley  lately  had  of  her  husband's  gift,  or  20<s.  of  rent  to  him  re- 
served of  the  said  house  and  of  his  other  lands  in  Surrey,  and  shall 
thereto  appear  in  any  court  of  record,  they  the  said  Robert,  Thomas 
and  John  shall  have  the  said  rent  of  135.  4rf.  during  her  life,  with 
poA\  er  to  distrain  for  arrears,  and  so  long  as  she  shall  not  sue  for  dower 
payment  of  the  said  rent  of  135.  4cZ.  shall  cease.  Dated  Southwerk, 
27"^  January  39   Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  Robert  de  Upton  and  Robert 
Botiller,  28  January. 

Writing  of  Edward  Durdent,  of  full  age  and  sound  memory  and  out 
of  prison,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  William  de  Naffreton 
and  Margaret  his  wife,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  three  messuages  with 
crofts  adjoining,  160  acres  of  land,  30  acies  of  meadow,  100  acres  of 
pasture,  40  acres  of  wood  at  le  Southland,  4  acres  of  meadow  in  le 
Wetmede,  and  common  of  pasture  in  le  Southmede  as  the  said 
Margaret  held  the  same,  with  all  appurtenances  in  Denham  and 
common  of  pasture  in  Everheth,  all  which  the  said  William  and 
Margaret  hold  in  the  said  towns.  Dated  Little  Trinity  Lane  London, 
Wednesday  after  All  Saints  38  Edward  III.  Witnesses  :  Adam  de 
Bury,  William  do  Bury,  Henry  Coue,  John  Brian. 

Memorandum  of  ackno^^]edgment,  28  January  this  year. 

Jan.  29,         Robert  Jasper  of  Asshe  to  Adam  de  Akum  parson  of  Asshe  in  the 
Westminster,  diocese  of  Rochester.     Recognisance  for  40L,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Kent. 

Jan,  29.         William  de  la  Sauserye  of  Kyngcston  upon  Thames  to  Hugh  del 
Westminster.  Redhogli   and  Thomas   de   Hexham.     Recognisance  for   lOZ.,   to   be 
levied  etc.  in  Surrey, 

Cancelled  on  'payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Thomas. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Bayouse  knight,  giving  to  John  de  Neuport, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  for  a  sum  of  money  in  hand  paid,  a  yearly  rent 
of  40  marks  to  be  taken  of  his  manor  of  Arkesden  co.  Essex  at  Easter 
and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  with  poAver  to  distrain  for  arrears, 
binding  his  heirs  and  executors  for  payment,  and  he  has  delivered 
25.  in  part  payment  for  the  first  term  in  name  of  seisin  ;  also  granting 
and  selling  to  the  said  John  all  his  goods  and  chattels  alive  and  dead, 
as  well  cattle  and  corn  growing  upon  his  lands  as  his  other  goods  in 
Essex  and  Huntingdonshire  Avhich  he  had  at  this  date.  Dated 
24  January  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  ackno\Aledgment,  1  February  this  year. 

To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull. 
Order,  for  particular  causes,  not  to  suffer  any  wool,  woolfells  or  hides 
to  be  laded  in  that  port  or  taken  over  thence  from  this  date  until 
further  order.  By  K,  &  C. 

\  Fad  era.} 

The  like  to  the  collectors  in  the  port  of  London,  and  in  eight  other 
ports. 

[Ibid.-] 


Jan,  31, 

Westminster. 


39    EDWARD    III. 


161 


1366. 


Membrane  ild — cont. 


Writing  of  Gilbert  de  Shotcsbroke,  giving  to  Johnattc  Wodo  and  Lucy 
bis  \\  ifc  for  tboir  lives  25  marks  of  yearly  rent  to  be  taken  of  all  tbc  lands 
sometime  of  Jolin  de  Saneto  Pliilberto  in  Ksthanneye  at  tbe  Annun- 
ciation and  Micliaelmas  by  even  portions,  with  power  to  distrain  for 
arrears.  Witnesses  :  Roger  de  Cotesford,  Roger  de  Elinrugge,  John 
de  Trillowe  knights,  Robert  Trisilian,  Thomas  Catewey.  Dated 
Westminster,  7  February  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  8  February. 

Writing  of  John  Hullo  the  elder  of  Kislyngbury  co.  Norhampton, 
cousin  and  heir  of  Richard  de  Kislyngbury,  being  a  confirmation  of 
the  estate  of  William  de  Bury  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  in  all  the  lands  late  of  the  said  Richard  and  Alice  his  wife 
(now  wife  of  the  said  William)  and  of  the  heirs  of  the  said  Richard  in 
PenteloA^e  and  elsewhere  in  Essex,  which  the  said  William  and  Alice 
now  hold  for  her  life  with  reversion  to  the  said  John,  and  a  quitclaim 
thereof  with  warranty  to  the  said  William,  his  heirs  and  assigns. 
Witnesses  :  Adam  de  Bury,  John  de  Bures,  James  Andreu,  William 
Essex,  Thomas  Atherby,  John  Sely.  Dated  London,  Thursday  the 
feast  of  St.  James  the  Apostle  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  February  this  year. 

Membrane  36c?. 

Charter  of  William  son  of  Thomas  Bisshop  of  Mukelton  co.  Gloucester, 
of  full  age  etc.,  giving  with  warranty  to  Richard  Bartelot  of  Welneford, 
Sir  John  Ryfeld  chaplain,  John  Todyngton  chaplain,  William 
Robardes  of  Cantilupe,  Nicholas  Saucer,  Nicholas  Lacy  of  Stretford 
upon  Avon  and  Matthew  de  Caus,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  his  lands 
in  Mukelton  ■\^hich  fell  to  him  by  hereditary  right  after  the  decease 
of  John  Bisshop.  Witnesses  :  Walter  Tibeteu  of  Mukelton,  John 
atte  Chambre  of  Merschton,  Robert  Jurdan  of  Longemerschton, 
Walter  Wreohull  of  Stretforde  upon  Avon,  John  Chaucombe.  Dated 
Stretforde,   Thursday   after   Palm   Sunday  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  26  January  this  year. 


Jan.  27.         Thomas  de  Edynton  to  Richard  Hidon.     Recognisance  for  100?., 
Westminster,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Somerset. 

Jan.  27.         Thomas  de  Aldoun  knight  to  William  de  Bokebrugge  clerk.  Recog- 
Westminster.  nisance  for  100  marks  payable  by  instalments,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Kent. 
Cancelled  on  'payment. 


Jan.  28.         William  de  Walton  to  John  de  la  Pole. 
Westminster,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Lancashire. 


Recognisance  for  20  marks, 


Charter  of  John  de  Clyneton  of  Maxstoke  knight,  cousin  and  heir 
of  William  de  Clynton  earl  of  Huntingdon,  inspecting  and  confirming 
with  warranty  his  former  charter  to  Sir  Robert  prior  of  Maxstoke 
and  the  convent  [text  follows].  Witnesses  :  John  Pecche,  John  de 
Bracebrugge,  John  de  Sutton  knights,  William  W^aldeyeve,  Thomas 
de  Ruyton,  Richard  de  Burbach,  William  de  Filongleye.  Dated 
Maxstoke  castle,  Monday  after  the  Conversion  of  St.  Paul  38  Edward  III. 

By  the  charter  recited  the  said  John,  styled  John  son  and  heir  of 

E  11 


162 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  36ri — cont. 

Sir  John  de  Clynton  knight  {miles)  of  full  age,  granted  with  warranty 
to  the  said  prior  and  convent  and  to  their  successors  the  site  of  the 
manor  of  Maxstoke  within  the  moat  and  without,  all  the 
park  thereof  as  enclosed  with  all  the  islands  adjoining  between 
the  park  and  the  river  Blythe,  all  the  fishery  of  the  said  river 
at  all  times  of  the  year  from  Pakynton  to  the  upper  bays 
of  the  water  mill  of  Maxstoke  by  a  piece  of  ground  called  le 
Quegge,  all  the  fields  with  the  hedges  and  ditches  in  the  said 
manor  called  Chicchefeld,  Peseforlong,  Dedeshalefeld  and  Spelleslonde, 
all  the  piece  of  land  called  Anketeleswell  with  the  watercourse  there- 
from to  the  site  of  the  manor,  the  piece  of  land  called  Shepecoteyerd 
as  enclosed  with  hedges  and  ditches,  the  pieces  of  wood  called 
Birchenemor  and  le  Oldefeld  by  le  Birchenemor  with  the  hedges  and 
'  ditches  enclosing  them,  all  his  lordship  as  in  ways,  wastes,  paths  and 

in  all  other  places  in  the  said  manor  which  the  said  prior  and  convent 
previously  had  of  his  gift  and  feoffment,  the  messuages  and  all  the 
lands  held  by  Robert  Powke,  Henry  le  Prowde  and  Thomas  Powke 
sometime  his  neifs,  with  the  bodies  of  the  said  neifs  and  all  that  goes 
with  them,  the  moiety  of  one  virgate  of  land  sometime  held  for  life 
by  Master  Richard  the  cook,  the  messuage  sometime  held  at  will  by 
John  le  Co^A'herd  in  the  said  manor,  and  the  homages  and  services 
of  Simon  Moryn,  Robert  Hare,  Henry  le  Walker,  Nicholas  Bertram, 
John  le  Walker,  Alice  le  Walker,  Richard  le  Walker,  Amice  who  was  wife 
of  John  Falk,  Henry  Herdenehcd,  Thomas  Anketell,  Gregory  atte  Hay- 
teleye,  Philip  Isabell,  John  Walrand,  John  Griffyn  and  Alice  his  wife, 
Maud  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Boreyate,  Walter  de  Collesleye,  Robert 
Hood,  Emma  who  was  wife  of  Nicholas  de  Lindryche,  Alice  who  was  wife 
of  John  the  smith  [fdbri)  and  Richard  atte  Slade  for  the  lands  of  him 
held  in  the  said  manor,  which  messuages,  lands,  rents  and  services 
the  said  prior  and  convent  previously  had  of  his  gift  and  feoffment 
in  exchange  for  the  manor  of  Shustoke,  as  fully  as  they  had  that  of  the 
gift  and  feoffment  of  William  de  Clynton  earl  of  Huntyngdon,  except 
one  piece  of  land  called  Becchescroft,  another  called  Berneyerd,  one 
acre  of  land  called  Lydeyateforlong  below  the  high  road,  one  acre  in 
le  Middelhallefeld  called  Wascheforlong,  one  acre  called  Marledeforlong, 
one  acre  called  Banebuttes,  \2d.  of  rent  therein  issuing  of  divers  pieces 
of  land  sometime  held  by  Gundreda  de  Brewode,  and  the  advowson  of 
a  chantry  in  Bentleye  chapel  in  the  said  manor  [of  Shustoke],  to  hold 
in  almoin  according  to  the  form  of  a  charter  between  the  parties  made. 
Witnesses  :  Sir  Thomas  de  Bello  Campo  earl  of  Warrewyk,  William 
de  Clynton  earl  of  Huntyngdon,  Sir  Baldwin  de  Fryvyle,  Sir  Ralph  de 
Bracebrugge  knights,  John  de  Peyto  the  younger,  John  du  Lee,  John 
de  Collesleye.  Dated  Maxstoke,  Wednesday  after  the  Annunciation 
21  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27  January  this  year. 

Jan.  30.         John  Sapy  knight  to  Lambert   de  Weston    knight.     Recognisance 
Wostminster.  for  80/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Worcestershire. 

Feb.  3.  Ralph  Hikkebrid  of  Craunford  to  Robert  de  Blatherwyk.     Recog- 

Westminster.  nisance  for  20  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Middlesex. 

Membrane  ^M. 

Writing  of  Martin  de  Fisshacre,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to 
Wilham  Gary,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  lands,  rents  and  services  in 


39  EDWARD  TTT. 


103 


I 


1305.  Membrane,  35ci — cont. 

Bogheweye,  Hoo,  Crofte  and  Ennewylle  and  of  the  ferry  between 
Dcitcmutli  and  Kyngiswere.  Witnesses  :  Nicholas  dc  la  Pomeray, 
William  de  Luscotc,  John  Speck,  John  dc  Fcrers  of  Churcheston, 
Adam  Cole.  Dated  Bogheweye,  Tuesday  before  St.  Thomas  the  Apostle 

38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  February  this  year. 

Writing  of  Eleanor  daughter  of  Alice  Pademere  daughter  of  John 
Pndemere  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  \^'arranty  to  Richard  son 
of  Thomas  Colepeper  knight  {militis),  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the 
lands  sometime  of  her  said  mother  in  the  towns  of  Brencheslee  and 
Peapingbery.     Dated    Brenchesle,    Thursday    after    the    Purification 

39  Edward  III.  Witnesses  :  John  Colepeper,  John  Chitecroft,  Wilham 
de  Halden,  John  Wardeden,  William  Broke. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  February. 

Writing  of  William  son  and  heir  of  Sir  Simon  de  Swanlond  knight, 
inspecting  and  confirming  to  Robert  son  and  heir  of  Sir  John  dc 
Mountneye,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  with  power  to  disti'ain  for  arrears, 
a  deed  of  the  said  Sir  Simon  made  to  Sir  John  de  Mounteny  knight 
and  his  heirs  of  a  yearly  rent  of  20  marks  [text  follows].  W^itnesses  : 
John  de  Braham  knight,  Lyonet  de  Bradenham,  Clement  de  Bretenliam, 
Roger  de  Wolfreton,  John  Chilterne,  William  Berard.  Dated  London, 
3  February  39  Edward  III.     French. 

The  deed  above  recited  is  a  bond  indented  with  warranty  of  Simon 
de  Swanlond  merchant  of  London  to  Sir  John  de  Mounteney  knight 
in  20  marks  of  yearly  quit  rent  payable  at  the  four  usual  terms  by 
even  portions,  to  be  taken  of  all  the  lands  and  rents  which  the  said  Simon 
had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  the  said  Sir  John  in  the  town  of 
Northmymmes  co.  Hertford,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears. 
Witnesses  :  John  de  Mounchensi  knight,  Roger  de  Louthe,  Thomas 
Williot,  John  de  Totenhale,  Adam  Miles,  Thomas  Derk.  Dated 
Northmymmes,  Friday  the  Nativity  of  St.  John  Baptist  1317, 
10  Edward  [II].     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  15  February. 


Feb.  17.         Thomas  de  Maulay  to  John  duke  of  Lancastre.     Recognisance  for 
Westminster.  lOOL  payable  by  instalments ;  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Yorkshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Feb.  21.         Thomas  atte  More  of  Sussex  to  Nicholas  de  Kaerwent  parson  of 
Westminster.  Crondale  co.  Suthampton.     Recognisance  for  20/.,  to  be  levied  etc. 
in  Sussex. 


Feb.  8.  John  de  la  Hale  knight  to  Thomas  Tyrell  knight. 

Westminster.  lOOZ.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Dorset. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


Recognisance  for 


Charter  of  Thomas  Tyrell  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to  John 
de  la  Hale  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  his  manor  of  Penyton 
CO.  Suthampton.  Dated  Westminster,  Friday  after  the  Purification 
39  Edward  III. 


164  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


13fif>*  Membrane  35d — conf. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Tyrell  knight,  being  a  letter  of  attorney  to  John 
Neyrnuyt,  Thomas  de  Mordon  and  Simon  Auntyoche  to  dehver  to 
Sir  John  de  la  Hale  knight  seisin  of  the  manor  of  Penyton  according 
to  the  foregoing  charter.  Dated  Westminster,  Friday  after  the 
Purification  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  8  February. 

Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  by  Richard  la  Zusche  knight,  William 

Strode  and  John  de  la  Hay,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  for  the 

abbot  of  St.  Albans  guardian  of  William  son  of  John  Aignel  a  minor, 
concerning  which  wardship  is  pending  a  plea  in  chancery  between 
the  king  and  the  said  abbot,  that  the  abbot  shall  have  the  said  heir 
in  chancery  in  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next  to  do  as  shall  then  be 
appointed  concerning  him  by  counsel  of  the  king,  and  that  he  shall  not 
marry  him  in  the  mean  time,  but  keep  him  well  as  is  fitting. 

Note  that  the  prior  of  Gisburn  has  a  day  to  be  in  person  in  chancery 

• in  the  quinzaine  of-  Easter  next  to  answer  concerning  matters  which  shall 

be  laid  against  him  on  the  king's  behalf. 

Feb.  15.  To  Robert  de  Thorpe  and  John  Knyvet  justices  of  assize  in  Suffolk. 
Westminster.  Order,  if  assured  that  the  tenements  put  in  view  in  an  assize  of  novel 
disseisin  concerning  tenements  in  Kentewell  before  them  arraigned 
by  William  Neve  and  Joan  his  wife  against  David  de  Strabolgi 
earl  of  Athole  and  others  are  parcel  of  the  manor  of  Kentewellehalle, 
to  behave  circumspectly  in  the  matter  so  that  no  hurt  or  prejudice 
to  the  king  may  arise  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  that  the  said  plaintiffs 
have  put  in  view  divers  lands  Mhich  are  parcel  of  the  said  manor, 
now  for  particular  causes  in  the  king's  hand  as  appears  by 
certificate  of  Roger  de  Wolfreton  the  escheator  sent  into  chancery  by 
the  king's  command,  and  that  it  would  tend  to  the  king's  prejudice 
if  they  should  proceed  to  that  assize  without  advising  him. 

Membrane  ZAd.    ' 

Writing  of  William  de  Wynterbourne,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  Roger  de  Manyngford,  his  heirsandassigns,  of  all  the  lands, 
meadows,  woods,  feedings  and  pastures  which  the  said  Roger  holds 
for  life  of  the  demise  of  Geoffi-ey  de  Bares  and  Margaret  his  wife  in 
Hulselde  and  Halfhyde  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court,  the  reversion 
whereof  the  said  Geoffrey  by  his  writing  granted  to  the  said  William, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  by  virtue  of  which  grant  the  said  Roger  in  full 
county  at  Dorchestre  on  Monday  in  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary 
38  Edward  III  attorned  tenant  to  the  said  W^illiam.  Witnesses  : 
Nicholas  Poyntz,  John  de  la  Hale  knights,  Thomas  de  Brudeport,  John 
Brunyng,  William  Payn,  John  de  Frompton,  Walter  Mortymer,  John 
Michel,  Thomas  Bosse,  William  Brut,  W-'illiam  Spencer.  Dated 
Dorchestre,  Thursday  after  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary  aforesaid. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  February  this  year. 

Writing  indented  of  John  Sonjmghulle  of  Berkshire,  demising  with 
warranty  to  William  le  Venour  citizen  of  London,  liis  heirs  and  assigns^ 


39  EDWARD  111.  105 


I 


1365.  Membrane  Md — cord. 

for  his  life  and  tlic  life  of  Mabel  his  wife  and  for  ten  years  from  the 
death  of  the  longest  livei-,  the  manor  of  Styntesford  and  Frome 
Bonvyleston  co.  Dorset  by  him  previously  granted,  by  fine  levied 
between  the  parties,  to  the  said  William  for  life  at  a  yearly  rent 
of  20  marks  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions  to  hold  of 
the  said  John  and  his  heirs  rendering  yearly  one  rose  at  Midsummer 
for  all  service  and  demand,  discharging  the  manor  of  the  former 
rent.  Dated  London,  Thursday  before  the  Purification  39  Edward  III. 
Memorandmn  of  acknowledgment,  5  February. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Rookwode,  brother  of  John  de  Rookwode, 
being  a  quitclaim  to  Richard  de  Everdon  and  Henry  his  son,  William 
Cheddre,  William  Taillour  of  Burnham  chaplain,  and  Walter  de 
Tentebury,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Childe  Okford 
and  a  mcdiety  of  the  advo\\son  of  the  church  thereof,  and  of  two 
messuages  in  Fitelford  co.  Dorset.  Dated  Monday  the  morrow  of  the 
Purification  39  Ed\A'ard  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  February. 

Jan.  26.         Walter  de  Wauncy  appoints  Nicholas  de  Spaigne  clerk  his  attorney 
Westminster,  to  sue  execution  of  a  recognisance  for  201.  to  him  made  by  Hildebrand 
de  London  on  7  November  in  the  12th  year  of  the  reign,  to  receive 
the  monej'  and  cause  the  recognisance  to  be  cancelled. 

Memorandum  that  this  appointment  was  received  by  John  de  Hilton 
*  clerk,  by  writ  of  dedimus  poiestatem  which  is  on  the  files  for  this  year. 

Feb.  8.  Reynold  Perot   of  Berkshire   to  Thomas   Restewold  of  the  same 

Westminster,  county.     Recognisance  for  1001.,  to  be  levied   in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Berkshire. 

Feb.  8.  Thomas   Restewold  of  Berkshire  to   Reynold  Perot   of  the  same 

Westminster,  county.     Recognisance  for  1001.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Berkshire. 

Feb.  8.  John  de  Seint  Clier  knight  to  Queen  Philippa.     Recognisance  for 

Westminster.  100/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Sussex. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  la  Mare,  granting  with  warranty  to  William 
bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the  remainder  of  divers 
lands  in  Larkeby,  Caldecote  and  elsewhere  within  the  parish  of 
Coleshull  CO.  Berks,  now  held  of  the  said  Thomas  by  Richard  Bolle, 
Christina  his  wife  and  John  their  son  by  indenture  for  their  lives 
at  a  yearly  rent  of  20,s.  payable  at  Michaelmas  and  the  Annunciation 
by  even  portions  and  a  heriot  after  the  death  of  the  longest  liver, 
with  reversion  to  the  said  Thomas  and  his  heirs.  Witnesses  :  Warin 
de  Insula,  Amaury  de  Sancto  Amando,  Thomas  de  Besyles,  Richard  de 
Abberbury,  William  de  Makkeneye,  Henry  de  Bokesworth;  Gilbert  de 
Shotesbrok,  John  de  Bockote,  John  Cleet,  John  de  Eketon.  Dated 
Coleshull  CO.  Berks,   6  February  39  Edward  HI. 

Memoranditm  oi  acknowledgment,  11  February. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  la  Mare,  granting  with  warranty  to  the  rector 
and  brethren  of  the  house  or  monastery  of  St.  Augustine  Edyndon 
and  to  their  successors  the  remainder  of  a  messuage,  one  carucate 
of  land   and    20   acres   of    meadow   in   Fershesdon   by   Heighworth 


166  CALENDAR  OP  CLOSE  ROLLS 


1365.  Membra7ie  34(Z — cont. 

CO.  Wyltes,  now  held  of  the  said  Thomas  by  John  Goseye  and  Maud  his 
wife  by  indenture  for  their  Hves  at  a  yearly  rent  of  6  marks  payable 
at  Michaelmas  and  the  Annunciation  by  even  portions  and  a  heriot 
after  the  death  of  the  longest  liver,  with  reversion  to  the  said  Thomas 
and  his  heirs.  Witnesses  :  Robert  de  la  Mare  knight,  Thomas  de 
;  Hungurford,  John  de  Lustushulle,  William  de  Warghton,  John  Witside. 

Dated  Heighworth,  6  February  39  Edward  III. 
Memorandum   of    acknowledgment,    11    February. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Edyngdon,  son  and  heir  of  Gilbert  de  Edyngdon, 
giving  to  Henry  Molyns  ^he  younger,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly 
rent  of  10?.  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions 
of  all  the  lands  of  the  said  Thomas,  his  moors,  meado\^'S,  feedings 
and  pastures  in  Edyngdon  by  Gattecote  co.  Somerset  only,  with  power 
to  distrain  for  arrears  in  all  his  lands  and  tenements  as  well  free 
as  villein.  Dated  Southperton,  Monday  in  Mid  Lent  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  ackno\vledgment,  1 1  February  this  year. 

Membrane  33rf. 

Charter  of  Henry  Strattone  rector  of  Chakendene  and  John 
Mannyng  of  Newenham  chaplain  giving  with  warranty  to  Ralph 
[or  Richard]  Englis  of  Newenham  Moryn  and  Richard  his  son,  and 
to  the  heirs  male  of  the  body  of  Richard  tlie  son,  their  whole  manor  • 
of  Opholcoumbe,  with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  issue  to  Roger  brother 
of  the  said  Richard  the  son  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  remainder  to 
the  heirs  of  the  body  of  the  said  Richard  Englis,  remainder  for  lack 
of  an  heir  male  of  his  body  to  the  right  heirs  of  the  said  Richard  Englis. 
Witnesses  :  Sir  John  Grey,  John  de  Stonore,  Philip  de  Engulfeld, 
Hugh  de  Berwyck,  Gilbert  Wace  knights,  Jolm  de  Aluetone,  John 
Loveday,  Thomas  Barntyn,  John  James,  Hugh  Wolf,  Reynold  Mariot. 
Dated  Opholcoumbe,  Thursdaj^  after  the  Translation  of  St.  Thomas 
34  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  John  Mannyng,  21  February 
this  year. 

Charter  of  John  Mannyng  clerk,  giving  to  John  Harewedon 
(Harwedon)  and  John  Rud,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  his  messuages, 
lands,  meadows,  woods,  rents  and  services  of  all  his  tenants  as  well 
free  as  villein  which  he  had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  John  Burel 
in  the  towns  of  Stoke  Bassett,  Ippesdene  and  Mongewell.  Witnesses  : 
Hugh  de  Berewyk,  Gilbert  Wace  knights,  Thomas  Barntyn,  Ralph 
Restwald,  John  James,  Nicholas  Paiable,  Walter  atte  Garstone, 
John  Roudene.  Dated  Stokebasset,  Sunday  after  St,  Valentine 
39  Edward  III. 

Memorandttm  of  acknowledgment,   21  February. 

Feb.  8.  To  John  de  Moubray  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  assize  in  Cornwall. 

Westminster.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  son  of  Thomas  de  Enys,  if  proceedings 
have  taken  place  before  them  as  hereinafter  mentioned,  to  proceed 
to  the  rendering  of  judgment  upon  the  verdict  of  an  assize  of  novel 
disseisin  by  the  said  John  son  of  Thomas  arraigned  against 
Thomas  Goldsmyth  of  Bodmin  concerning  tenements  in  Banathlek 
by     Bretheby,*    doing     justice     to     the     parties,     notwithstanding 

*  In  the  petition  Brethey. 


IJO  KDWAKI)  III.  1()7 

1305.  Membrane  33d — cord. 

tlie  alU'gation  that  i]w  king's  debtor  was  seised  of  the  jjrcniises, 
and  notw  ithstandinu;  the  king's  command  to  them  addressed  not 
to  proceed  so  to  do  witJiout  advising  him  ;  as  tlie  said  John 
son  of  Thomas  has  sliewn  the  king  tliat  the  said  justices  deferred 
to  })roceed  to  take  the  said  assize  for  that  it  was  alleged  that  Michael 
W'astel,  uho  in  his  life  time  was  bound  to  the  king  in  4,01.,  was  seised 
of  the  premises  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  and  the  same  were  taken 
into  the  king's  hand,  and  that  tliough  after  they  took  the  assize  by 
virtue  of  a  command  to  them  addressed,  obtained  at  the  suit  of  the 
said  John,  directing  them  so  to  do  the  said  allegation  notwithstanding, 
and  it  is  found  b}'  the  verdict  thereof  that  the  said  defendant  unlaw- 
fully disseised  the  said  John  of  the  premises,  nevertheless  the  said 
,  justices  have  not  been  careful  to  proceed  to  render  judgment,  whei'efore 

i  he  lias  prayed  for  remedy.    By  pet.  of  pari.  [Ancient Fetitionfi,  1029G.] 

i  May    14.         To  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Benet   Holme.      Order   to   grant 

J  Windsor.      to  Robert  de  Caldewell  the  king's  clerk  such  pension  as  may   befit 

I  the  giver  and  sliould  bind  the  receiver  to  them,  causing  him  to  have 

letters  patent  thereof  under  the  seal  of  their  house,  and  w  riting  again 
by  the  bearer  Avhat  they  think  lit  to  do  at  this  request ;  as  the  said 
abbot  by  reason  of  his  new  creation  is  bound  in  such  pension  to  one 
of  tlie  king's  clerks,  to  be  by  the  king  nominated,  until  provision  shall  by 
the  abbot  be  made  him  of  a  competent  benefice  ;    and  the  king  has 

»  nominated  the   said   Robert,    whose  advancement  he   has   at    heart. 

By  p.s.  [26649*.] 

May  1.  The  like  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Plympton  on  behalf  of  Thomas 

Westminster,  de  Swaby,  by  reason  of  the  said  prior's  new  creation. 

By  p.s.  [26632.] 

Membrane  S2d. 

Feb.  11.         John  abbot  of  Whalleye,  for  himself  and  the  convent,  to  John  de 
Westminster.  Stafford  parson  of  Leek.     Recognisance  for  800/.,   to  be  levied,   in 
default  of  payment,   of  their  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical 
goods  in  Lancashire. 

April  12.  To  the  prior  and  convent  of  St.  German  in  Cornwall.  Request 
Windsor,  to  admit  to  the  house  John  Gardyner  of  Westminster,  whom  the 
king  is  sending  to  them  by  reason  of  his  good  service,  granting  him  such 
maintenance  therein  as  Thomas  Wyger  deceased  had  at  the  king's 
request,  making  him  letters  patent  under  their  common  seal  witli 
mention  of  what  he  shall  take,  and  writing  again  by  the  bearer  what 
they  shall  think  fit  to  do  at  this  request.  '  By  p.s.  [26588.] 

Feb.  12.         Agnes  Simond  and  John  Siniond  to  Richard  de  Norwych  of  Orpynton. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  10  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their 
lands  and  chattels  in  Kent. 

Writing  of  Edward  de  Sancto  Johanne  knight  the  elder,  surrendering 
to  Queen  Philippa  the  baili^^■ick  of  keeper  of  the  manor  of  Maresfeld 
which  is  of  the  honour  of  Laigle  together  A\-ith  the  park  and  the  town 
of  Grenestede,  and  the  keeping  of  the  chace  of  Asshedoune  co.  Sussex, 
which  he  had  of  the  said  queen's  grant  and  demise.  Dated  Westminster, 
31  January  39  Edward  III. 

Mnnorandiim  of  acknoAvledgment,   12  February. 

*  The  warrant  dated  May  20. 


168  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  Z2d — cont. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Marny  knight,  being  a  letter  of  attorney  to 
John  de  Neuport,  Thomas  Yonge  and  John  de  Berden  to  receive 
seisin  of  the  lands  which  Robert  Pykot  and  Bartholomew  Deuxmars 
held  jointly  or  severally  in  Horndon  on  28  October  last,  according  to 
indentures  of  that  date  made  at  Colcestre  between  Sir  Thomas 
Maundeville,  John  Fabel  and  the  said  Robert.  Dated  30  January 
39  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  15  February. 

Membrane  ^\d. 

Feb.  27.         To  the  sheriff  of  Wiltes.     Order  to  cause  Thomas  West  and  Robert 

Westminster,  de  la  Mare,  knights  of  the  shiro  coming  to  the  parliament  summoned 

at  Westminster  at  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary  last,  to  have  of  the  commons 

of    the    county    within   liberties   and    without,   cities   and  boroughs 

excepted,  14?.  for  their  expenses  for  35  days,  namely  either  of  them 

is.  a  day.  By  K. 

The  following  have  the  like  writs  : 

Bedfordshire  :     Robert  Hotot  and  William  de  Russheby  13Z.  45. 

for  33  days. 
Bukinghamshire  :        Roger    de    Puttenham     and      Thomas    de 

Mussynden  13/.  45.  for  33  days. 
Norhamptonshire  :       Theobald  Trussel  and  William  de  Quenton 

13/.  45.  for  33  days. 
LejJ-cestershire  :     Ralph    de    Hastynges    and    Simon    Pakeman 

14/.  for  35  days. 
Warwickshire  :     Fulk  de  Bermyngeham  and  William  de  Catesby 

14/.  for  35  days. 
Staffordshire  :     John  de  Perton  and  Wilham  de  Walshale  14/.  16s. 

for  37  days. 
Salop  :     Hugh  de  Mortuo  Mari  and  Roger  Cheyne  14/.  I65.  for 

37  days. 
W^orcestershire :     Robert    Bracy    and    Robert    Russel    14/.    for 

35  days. 
Herefordshire :     John    de    Eynesford    and    Hugh    de    Monyton 
^  14/.  I65.  for  37  days. 
Gloucestershire  :     John  de  Bromwych  and  John  Sloghtre  14/.  for 

35  days. 
Somerset :     John   de   Sancto  Laudo   and  Matthew  de  Clyvedon 

15/.   12s.  for  39  days. 
Dorset :    John  de  la  Hale  and  Thomas  de  la  Bere  14/.  16s.  for 

37  days. 
Devon  :     John  Dabernoun  and  William  de  Bryghtlee  17/.  4s.  for 

43  days. 
Cornwall  :     Nicholas  de  Taraworth   and  Richard  Cergeaux  the 

younger  18/.  for  45  days. 
The  county  of    Suthampton  :     John    de  Foxle    and  Walter  de 

Haywode  13/.  45.  for  33  days. 
Surrey  :     Thomas  de  Uvedale  and  William  Croyser  12/.  8s.  for 

31  days. 
Sussex  :     Andrew   Sakevylle  and  Peter  atte  Wode   13/.   4s.   for 

33  days. 
Kent:     John   Culpepyr   and    William   Apuldrefeld    13/.    4s.    for 
33  days. 


39  K I) WARD  III.  16J 


1305.  Membrane  31rf — cont. 

Essex  :     John  do  Sutton  the  elder  and  Thomas  Tyrel  131.  is.  for 

33  days. 
Hertfordshire  :     Thomas  de  Fytlyng  and  Jolm  de  Foxcote  12/.  Hs. 

for  31  days, 
lluntingdonsliire  :     John    de     VVauton      and      KieJiard     Alberd 

13/.  46".  for  33  days. 
Oxfordshire  :      Roger      Eliuerugge      and     Nicliolas      Dammory 

13/.   4s.  for  33  days. 
Berkshire  :     John  Try  Howe   and   John   de   Estbury    13/.   46'.   for 

33  days. 
Norffolk  :     Robert  Mortymer    and    Thomas    Moryeux    14/.    for 

35  days. 
Suffolk  :     Ralpli  de  Hemenhale  7/.  for  35  days. 
Roteland  :     Robert  de  Lulfenham  and  William  Bcaufo  14/.  for 

35  days. 
Lineolnshire :     AVilliam     de     Belesby     and     William     Marmyon 

14/.   16s.  for  37  days. 
Notinghamshire :     Simon     de     Leek     and     Robert    de    Morton 

14/.   16s.  for  37  days. 
Derbyshire :     Godfrey'    Folejambe    and    Henry    de    Braylesford 

14/.  16s.  for  37  days. 
Yorkshire :     Richard     Lescrope     and     Simon     de     Heselarton 

16/.  8s.  for  41  days. 
Cumberland  :     Robert   de   Tilliol   and    William    Engleis  18/.  for 

45  days. 
Northumberland  :  Aymer  de  Athole  and  Alan  de  Heton  18/.  for 

45  days. 
Lancashire :     Adam    de    Hoghton    and    Roger    de    Pylkyngton 

17/.  4s.  for  43  days. 
Westmorland  :     James  de  Pykeryng  and  John  de  Burgh  17/.  4s.  for 

43  days. 
Cambridgeshire  :     Thomas      de      Shardelovve      and      Hugh      de 

Clyderhowe  13/.  4s.  for  33  days. 
Middlesex  :     William  de  Swanlond  and  John  Wroth  the  younger 

11/.   12s.  for  29  days. 
[Prynne,  Pari.  Writs,  iv.  p.  267.] 

The  following  citizens  and  burgesses  have  the  like  writs  : 

The   town   of    Bedford  :     Richard    Vygerous    and   John    Spycer 

6/.  12s.  for  33  days. 
The    town    of    Wycombe  :     Thomas    Cornewaille    and    Richard 

Barbour  6/.  4s.  for  31  days. 
The  town  of  Norhampton  :     Lawrence  de  Stratton  and  Hugh  de 

Hegham  6/.  12s.  for  33  days. 
Newcastle  under  Lime  :     Thomas  de  Wodehull  and  Richard  de 

Podemor  11.  8s.  for  37  days. 
The  city   of  Cicestre  :     Roger  Chevne   and  Roger  de  Raketon 

6/.  12s.  for  33  days. 
[Ibid.,  p.  270.] 

Baldwin  Fryville  knight  appoints  Sir  Fulk  de  Bermyngeam  knight 

and  John  de  Tamworth  clerk  his  attorneys  to  sue  in  chancery  and  other 

courts  for  a  purparty  of  the  advowsons  of  churches,  prebends  and 
chapels   held    in    chief    and  falling    to   him    by    inheritance   as  well 


170  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  SlcZ — <\,nt. 

after  the  death  of  Philip  de  Marmyoun,  Joan  de  Morteyn  and 
Joan  de  Fryville  his  ancestors  as  after  that  of  Baldwin  de  Fryville 
his  father  and  other  his  ancestors,  and  to  do  and  receive  what  such 
court  shall  determine. 

Membrane  ^Od. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Ywayn,  son  and  heir  of  John  Ywayn  of 
Bretfarton,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Sir  Richard  de  Pyriton 
rector  of  Kemeseye  and  Walter  Guytjmg  of  Evesham,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  the  lands,  rents,  services  and  reversions  which  descended 
to  tiie  said  Thomas  after  the  death  of  his  said  father  in  the  town  of 
Ylmyndon  by  Whitchirche  co.  Warrewyk,  wherein  he  has  by  charter 
enfeoffed  the  said  Richard  and  Walter  ;  John  Notte  being  mayor 
of  the  city  of  London,  Richard  de  Croidon  and  John  Hiltoft  sheriffs. 
Witnesses :  John  Aubray,  Robert  de  Hatfeld,  John  Chaumbre, 
Richard  Bosshel,  John  Weoleye,  William  Grinel,  Robert  Jurdan. 
Dated  London,  Friday  the  eve  of  St.  Matthew  38  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Ywayn  {as  above),  being  a  quitclaim  to  Sir  Richard 
de  Piryton  and  Walter  Guytyng  {as  above)  of  the  rents  and  services 
of  all  his  tenants  in  Pebbeworth  co.  Gloucester,  with  all  his  neifs 
and  all  that  goes  with  them  and  their  goods  and  chattels,  also  with 
reversions,  scutages,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  heriotsetc.  which 
he  used  to  take  of  the  lands  now  held  of  him  by  John  Pey  to,  Richard 
Fraunkeleyn,  Robert  Herward,  Henry  Nichol,  Ankitill  Hardyng, 
Hugh  Driver,  Robert  Broun  and  Margery  Chapman  in  the  said  town, 
Avhich  descended  to  him  by  inheritance  after  his  father's  death, 
and  whereof  he  has  by  charter  enfeoffed  the  said  Richard  and  Walter, 
their  heirs  and  assigns ;  John  Not  being  mayor  of  London,  Richard 
de  Groidon  {sic)  and  John  Hiltoft  sheriffs.  Witnesses  and  date  {as 
the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings  in  the 
chancery  at  Bishops  Hatfeld  co.  Hertford,  12  April  this  year. 

Charter  of  Sampson  de  Matham  of  Sabrichesworth  co.  Hertford 
and  Margaret  his  wife,  giving  m  ith  warranty  to  Thomas  Blode  citizen 
and  fishmonger  of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  all  lands  and  rents, 
wdth  woods,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures  etc.  which  the  said  Sampson 
and  Margaret  had  in  the  town  of  Sabrichesworth,  to  hold  all  the  life  of 
the  said  Sampson  and  Margaret,  performing  yearly  the  services  and 
charges  pertaining  to  the  chief  lords.  Witnesses  :  Thomas  Blound, 
William  Phipp,  John  Aungewyn,  John  Martvn,  Robert  Gent.  Dated 
Sabrichesworth,    24   April   39   Edward   HI." 

Memorandnm  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Sampson  and  Margaret, 
25  April. 

Writing  of  Thomas  son  of  Thomas  de  Grey  of  Cavendyssh  knight 
{militis),  being  a  grant,  confirmation  and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to 
Roger  de  Wolf  erst  on,  William  Spice  and  Roger  Keteryk,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Spayneshall  with  all  lands,  rents,  services,  villeins, 
villenage  etc.  lately  of  the  said  Sir  Thomas  his  father  in  the  towns  of 
Wylinghale  Spayne  and  Wylinghale  Rokel,  which  they  have  for  the 
lives  of  the  said  William,  of  Clement  Spice  and  Alice  his  wife  as  appears 
by  the  record  of  an  assize  of  novel  disseisin  by  the  said  Sir  Thomas  de 


39  EDWARD  III. 


171 


I 


1305.  Membrane  30rf — cont. 

Grey  and  Thomas  his  son  lately  arraigned  against,  them  and  otlu!rs 
at  Chehnesford  before  the  king's  justices  and  by  certain  writings  in 
their  possession ;  and  release  of  all  actions,  plaints  and  clcniands, 
real  and  personal.  Dated  Wednesday  the  feast  of  St.  George 
39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27  April. 

Writing  of  Clement  Sjiice,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Thomas  de  Grey  of 
Cavendissh  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Hengham 
Sibile  called  (Jreys  manor,  saving  his  action  for  debt  by  reason  of 
a  statute;  merchant  to  him  lately  made  by  the  said  Thomas  and  otliers. 
Dated  Cavendish,  Friday  after  St.  George  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum   of   acknowledgment,    27   April. 

May  2.  John  de  Thorpe  to  Agnes  who  was  wife  of  John  Mautravers  knight. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  100^.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  Wiltes. 

Charter  of  Lionel  de  Bradenham,  giving  with  warranty  to  John 
son  of  John  de  Sutton,  Robert  Marny,  Richard  de  Sutton,  Roger  de 
Wolferston,  Edmund  Northtoft,  William  Warde  and  John  Stanstede 
parson  of  Staneweye  for  their  lives  his  manor  of  Langenhoo.  Witnesses  : 
John  Gernoun,  William  Baud  knights,  Robert  de  Teye,  Thomas  de 
Hynton,  John  Olyver,  Nicholas  Segrave.  Dated  Langenhoo,  3  April 
39  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Lionel  de  Bradenham,  giving  with  warranty  to  John 
son  of  John  de  Sutton,  Robert  Marny,  Richard  de  Sutton,  Roger 
Wolfereston,  Edmund  Northtoft,  William  Warde  and  John  Stanstede 
parson  of  Staneweye,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  his  goods  and  chattels 
in  Essex  moveable  and  immovable.  Dated  Langenho,  3  April 
39  Edward  III. 

Memorand%im  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and  writing, 
4  May. 

Membrane  2M. 

May  5.  William  de  la  Saucerye  of  Kyngeston  upon  Thames  to  Hugh  do 

Westminster.  Redhogh  and  Thomas  de  Hexham.     Recognisance  for  lOL,  to  be  levied, 
in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Surrey. 
Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Thomas. 

May  5.  Henry  de  Blakeburn  clerk  appoints  Nicholas  de  Staunford  clerk 

Westminster,  his  attorney  to  sue  in  chancery  the  execution  of  a  recognisance  for 

40Z.  to  him  made  by  John  son  of  Robert  de  Swynestede  before  John 

Pyel  late  mayor  of  the  staple  of  Westminster,  to  receive  the  money 

and  give  acquittance  for  the  same. 


Indenture  witnessing 
and  the  convent  have 
knight  lord  of  Groby, 
Richard  Rowe,  John 
a  dwelling  house  with  g 
heretofore  occupied  by 
and  have  granted  to 


that  brother  Richard  de  Plesye  prior  of  Donmowe 
given  with  warranty  to  Sir  William  de  Ferers 
John  Bataille  son  and  heir  of  John  Bataille, 
Hanekyn   and   William   Clerk   of   Lyndesselle 

arden  adjoining  and  a  thicket  by  the  gate  thereof 
the  said  prior  which  are  within  the  said  priory, 

them  every  day  so  many  white  loaves  called 


172 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365. 


Membrane  29d — cont. 


'  miches,'  so  many  gallons  of  the  best  ale  of  the  convent,  and  all 
else  of  the  kitchen  etc.  arising  as  two  canons  ought  and  have  been 
used  to  take  in  the  refectory,  and  every  day  a  corrody  in  bread  and 
ale  and  of  the  kitchen  for  one  servant,  namely  one  '  serjauntlof,' 
one  loaf  called  '  gretterwhitlof,'  half  a  gallon  of  convent  ale  and 
from  the  kitchen  pottage  with  one  mess  of  meat,  also  ten  cartloads 
of  wood,  oak  or  ash,  12  lbs.  of  candle  of  Parys  yearly  to  be  carried 
and  delivered  at  the  said  dwelling  house,  or  4.s.  a  week  during  the 
said  prior's  life  in  name  of  the  said  corrodies  whensoever  they  are 
pleased  to  commute  the  same,  also  the  whole  tithe  of  the  fishery  of 
all  the  weirs  of  Burnham  and  of  a  manor  called  Chevereshalle  in  the 
parish  of  High  Aungre,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  in  all  lands 
of  the  said  priory  in  the  town  of  Little  Donmowe.  Dated  Donniowe 
priory,  6  April  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  prior,  for  himself 
and  the  convent,  5  May. 

May  6.  John  Baudewyn  of  Ulneswyk  to  Nicholas  de  Twyford  of  London 

Westminster.  '  goldsmyth.'     Recognisance  for  20  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Bukinghamshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  Nigel  de  Haukynton,  being  an  acquittance  to  Sir  William 
de  la  Pole  lord  of  Castell  de  Asschby  David  for  10/.  this  day  received 
in  the  city  of  London  by  the  hands  of  William  de  Lyndesell  clerk,  in 
full  of  20Z.  wherein  the  said  Sir  William  was  bound  to  the  said  Nigel. 
Dated  London,  5  May  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  8  May. 

May  8,  John  Baudewyn  of  Ulneswyk  to  Nicholas  de  Twyford  of  London 

Westminster.  '  goldsmyth.'    Recognisance  for  80Z.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  pa3'ment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Bukinghamshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


May  9. 

Westminster. 


May  9. 

Westminster. 


William  de  Grauleriis  prior  of  Monks  Kirkeby  to  Walter  de  Freland 
clerk.  Recognisance  for  120/.  payable  by  instalments  ;  to  be  levied  etc. 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Warwickshire. 

Brian  de  Stapelton  knight,  John  Boys  and  Roger  Boys  to  Queen 
Philippa.  Recognisance  for  2,000  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  their 
lands  and  chattels  in  Yorkshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  Richard  de  Raveneser  the  said 
queen's  attorney. 

Charter  indented  of  Thomas  Haket,  giving  with  warranty  to  Roger 
Rose  and  Margery  his  wife,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  a  sixth  part  of 
the  manor  of  Brompton  co.  Somerset  with  the  advowson  of  the  church 
and  of  the  chapel  of  St.  Mary  Brompton,  rendering  yearly  one  mark 
only  in  the  octaves  of  Michaelmas  in  the  parish  church  of  la  Bere 
CO.  Dorset  so  long  as  they  shall  so  pay  the  same,  and  if  it  be  not  paid 
405.  of  yearly  rent  for  the  default,  so  that  w  henever  the  said  mark  be 
duly  paid  the  40.s.  shall  for  that  term  be  discharged,  reserving  poA\'er 
to  distrain  for  arrears,  which  part  the  said  Thomas  had  of  the  gift 
and  feoffmentof  Isabel  deGlommorgan,  and  by  his  writing  lately  gave  to 


39  EDWARD  III. 


173 


1365. 


\ 


Membrane  29d — cont. 

the  said  Roger  and  Margery  for  seven  years  at  a  yearly  rent  of  8  marks. 
Witnesses  :  John  de  Lyle  knight,  Geoffrey  Rokele,  John  Burghani, 
Walter  dc  Burton.  Dated  Neuport,  Monday  after  the  Invention  of 
Holy  Cross  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  9  May. 

Charter  of  John  Harvvedon  and  John  Rud,  giving  A\ith  warranty 
to  Richard  Englis  of  Newenham  Moryn  and  Alice  his  wife  and  to  the 
heirs  of  the  body  of  the  said  Richard  the  messuages,  lands,  meadows, 
woods,  rents  and  services  of  free  and  villein  tenants  sometime  of  John 
Burel  which  they  had  by  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Sir  John  Manny ng 
clerk  in  the  towns  of  Stokebasset,  Ippesden  and  Mongewelle.  Witnesses  : 
Hugh  de  Berewyk,  Gilbert  Wace  knights,  Thomas  Bartyn,  Ralph 
Restwald,  John  James,  Nicholas  Paiable,  Walter  atte  Garstone,  John 
Roudene.  Dated  Stokebasset,  Sunday  after  St.  Philip  and  St.  James 
39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  10  May. 


May  9. 


Richard  son  of  Richard  Scotte  of  New  castle  upon  Tyne  to  Hugh  de 
Wostininstor.  Mitford.     Recognisance  for  91.  payable  by  instalments  ;    to  be  levied, 
in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Northumberland. 

May  10.         Brother  John  prior  of  St.  John  the  Evangelist  Brechon  of  the  order 

Westminster,  of  St.  Benedict  in  the  diocese  of  St.  Davids   to  Robert   Vynter   of 

Maydestan.     Recognisance  for  80/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Herefordshire. 

W^riting  of  Richard  son  of  Richard  Scotte  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Hugh  de  Mitford  and  his  heirs  of  all 
the  lands  in  the  town  of  Marnliara  co.  Notyngliam  which  descended 
to  the  said  Richard  after  the  death  of  Edmund  de  Denom  his  ancestor, 
with  the  reversion  of  those  \\  hich  Alice  who  was  wife  of  the  said  Edmund 
holds  in  dower  in  the  said  town,  all  which  the  said  Richard  on  1  April 
39  Edward  III  by  his  ^^  riting  demised  to  the  said  Hugh  for  a  term  of 
ten  years.  Dated  London,  the  parish  of  St.  Andrew  Holburne,  10  May 
39   Edward   III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  May. 

May  14.         Walter  fitz  Wauter  knight  to  Thomas  fitz  Richard.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  lOOZ.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Essex.  . 

Membrane  2M. 

Charter  of  Walter  son  of  Ellis  le  Forster  of  Herlawe,  executor  of 
Walter  de  Herlawe  citizen  and  girdler  of  London  who  was  executor 
of  Gilbert  de  Istelworthe  sometime  citizen  and  dyer  of  London,  giving 
with  warranty  to  William  Digge  '  wexchaundelcr  '  citizen  of  London 
and  to  Joan  his  wife,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  the  tenement  formerly 
of  the  said  Gilbert  in  the  parish  of  St.  Michael  Queenhithe  London 
which  the  said  Gilbert  bequeathed  to  be  sold  by  his  executors  or  by 
their  executors.  Dated  London,  13  May  39  Edward  III.  Witnesses  : 
John  Rote,  William  Bathe,  John  Terry,  John  Taillour,  William 
Ne'weport,  Hugh  de  Ware,  John  de  Chepstede ;  Adam  de  Bury  being 
tlien  mayor  of  London.  Simon  de  Mordon  and  John  Medeford 
sheriffs,  and  John  Litle  alderman  of  the  Mard. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   15  May. 


J  74  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane,  2M — cont. 

Writing  of  John  Hastang,  son  of  John  Hastang  knight  [militis), 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  de  Blockeleye  clerk  and  his 
heirs  of  all  and  singular  the  lands  sometime  of  John  de  Bromley  in  the 
town  and  fields  of  Asshorne  co.  Warrewich.  Dated  Estlemynton, 
Sunday  after  the  Purification  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  16  May  this  year. 

May  16.         Philip  Mongomery  to  brother  Peter  prior  of  Bermondeseye,  John 
Westminster.  Hurdecote  and  William  de  Henton.     Recognisance  for  40/.,  to  be  levied, 
in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Somerset. 

Gilbert  de  Arches  parson  of  Drayton  Beauchamp  and  Richard 
Salter  of  Aillesbury  to  Hugh  de  Elmesale  and  Anthony  his  son.  Joint 
and  several  recognisance  for  40/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Bukinghamshire. 

Writing  of  John  son  and  heir  of  Hugh  le  Blount,  granting  that  Dame 
Joyce  his  mother  \^hile  she  shall  have  an  estate  in  the  manor  of  Gynge,  and 
after  her  Sir  William  de  Ferrers  and  Margaret  his  wife,  the  heirs  and 
assigns  of  the  said  William,  being  lords  of  the  said  manor,  shall  have 
common  of  pasture  in  the  outwood  of  Rammesdene  of  Nicholas  de 
Barenton  concerning  which  was  debate  heretofore  between  Sir  Hugh 
Blount  ancestor  of  the  said  John,  whose  heir  he  is,  and  the  said 
Nicholas,  Sir  Hugh  alleging  that  he  and  his  ancestors  were  long 
time  possessed  thereof,  and  thereupon  was  an  accord  between  them, 
the  said  Nicholas  granting  to  Sir  Hugh  and  his  heirs  common  of  pas- 
ture in  the  said  wood  for  all  cattle  of  his  said  manor  of  Gynge,  which 
by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  the  said  Joyce  holds  for  life  of  the 
said  John's  grant  with  reversion  to  the  said  William  and  Margaret  and 
the  heirs  of  the  said  William.      Witnesses  :     Sir   Thomas   de   Maun-  .^j 

deville,      Sir     William    de    Wauton    knights,    John    Waryn,    John 
Rtamer.     Dated    Stebbyngg,    16   May  39  Edward  ITI.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  17  May. 

Charter  of  William  Sevans,  son  and  heir  of  William  Sevans  knight 
(militis),  giving  to  Robert  de  Denton  chaplain,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
a  yearly  rent  of  10/.  issuing  of  all  the  lands  of  the  said  William  in  Essex 
to  be  taken  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions,  with  power 
to  distrain  for  arrears  ;  and  the  said  William  has  paid  him  1(/.  thereof 
in  name  of  seisin.     Dated  London,  15  May  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  18  May. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  above  rent,  upon  condition  that 
William  Sevans,  son  of  William  Sevans  knight  {militis),  shall  pay  to 
Robert  de  Denton  chaplain  or  to  his  attorney  100/.  at  the  feast  of 
St.  John  Baptist  next  at  London  in  the  parish  of  St.  Margaret  in 
Briggestrete  in  the  said  Robert's  house.  Dated  London,  16  May 
39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  18  May. 

May  17.         Richard  Hatheleseye  parson  of  Brynk\vortli  to  David  de  Wollore 
Westminster,  and  Thomas  de  Neuby  clerks.     Recognisance  for  10/.,  to  be  levied, 
in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical 
goods  in  Wiltes. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged,  by  the  said  David. 


39    EDWARD    III. 


175 


1365. 


Membrane  28d — cont. 


May  18. 

Westminster. 


May  21. 

Westminster. 


Writing  of  Richard  Wulfryclicston  vicar  of  Spersolt  in  the  diocese 
of  SaHsbury,  being  a  bond  to  Queen  PhiHppa  in  100^.  payable  at 
Micliaelnias  next  in  tlie  said  queen's  exchequer  at  Westminster. 
Dated   Westminster,     IG  May  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  ackno^^■ledgment,   19  May. 

Tliomas  de  Legh  to  Thomas  de  Rokwode.     Recognisance  for  IGOZ., 
to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Essex. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Robert  Vynter  of  Maydenstan  to  David  de  Wollore.    Recognisance 
for  20/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Kent. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  John  atte  Morhalle,  being  a  release  to  William  Yoman, 
Margery  his  wife,  James  their  son,  Cicely  their  daughter  and  John  Rote 
of  all  executions  of  a  statute  merchant  whereby  Thomas  Iwayn 
was  bound  to  him  in  200/.,  in  regard  to  a  messuage,  five  shops  and  the 
appurtenances  in  Fletestrete  in  the  suburb  of  London  whereof  at  that 
time  the  said  Thomas  was  tenant,  and  whereof  the  said  William, 
Margery,  James  and  Cicely  are  now  tenants  for  their  lives  a\  ith  reversion 
to  the  said  John  Rote  and  his  heirs,  and  of  all  claim  in  the  premises. 
Dated  London,  21  May  39  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  22  May. 


Membrane  21d. 

May.  21.         John  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Wodehull  knight  {militis)  to  Eleanor 
Westminster,  who  A\as  \\ife  of  John  de  Wodehull  knight.     Recognisance  for  120/., 
to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his    lands    and   chattels    in 
Bedfordshire. 

Indenture  of  lease  with  ^^arranty  made  by  John  de  Wodehull,  son 
andheirof  John  deWodhull  knight  (militis), to  Sir  Thomas  de  Reynes, 
Sir  La\vrenee  de  Pabenham,  John  Curtcys  and  William  de  W^odhull, 
of  his  manors  of  Wodhull  and  Langeford  co.  Bedford  and  PateshuU  co. 
Norhampton  for  a  term  of  30  years,  granting  that  all  tenants  and 
farmers  of  the  said  manors  shall  be  answerable  to  them  during  the 
said  term.     Dated  \A'odhull,  Palm  Sunday  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandiim  of  acknowledgment  by  John  de  Wodhull,  21  May. 

Writing  of  John  de  Mohoun  lord  of  Dunsterre,  giving  to  Sir  Hugh  de 
Courtenay  earl  of  Devon  and  Margaret  his  wife,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
all  his  Imights'  fees  in  Devonshire  and  all  knight  services  of  his  tenants 
by  knight  service  in  that  county  wheresoever,  with  wards,  marriages, 
homages,  reliefs,  escheats  etc.  thereto  belonging.  Witnesses  ;  John 
de  Meryet  knight,  Robert  de  Sambourne  clerk,  Henry  Percehay,  John 
Gary,  William  Gary.     Dated  Colecombe,  1  May  39  Edward  IIlI 

Writing  of  John  de  Mohoun  lord  of  Dunsterre,  giving  to  John  de 
Southedon  and  John  de  Horcastel  clerks,  W^illiam  Boneville,  Thomas 
Bytelesgate  and  John  Stoke,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  his  knights' 
fees  in  Devonshire  etc.  (a-s"  above).  Witnesses  ;  John  de  Meryet 
knight,  Robert  de  Sambourne  clerk,  Henry  Percehay,  William  Tauk, 
John  Gary,  William  Gary.     Dated  Colecombe,  1  May  39  Edward  III. 


176 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365. 


Membrane  21d — cont. 


Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings,  20  May 
at  Lambehithe  co.  Surrey,  before  John  Moubray  who  had  for  the 
purpose  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus  potestatem  which  is  on  the  files  of 
chancery  for  tliis  year. 

May  24.         William   Godefreye   of  Leyre  chaplain   to   William   Palmer  clerk. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  20/.,  to  be  levied,  in  defavilt  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  Leycestreshire. 

May  25.         Brother  Geoffrey  prior  of  Bradenestoke,  for  himself  and  the  convent, 
Westminster,  to  Edmund  Bannoc  citizen  of  London.     Recognisance  for  43Z.  6s.  8d., 
to  be  levied  etc.  of  their  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in 
Wyltes. 

Writing  of  Nicholas  de  Apperleye,  being  a  bond  to  John  de  Eylesford 
knight  in  40  marks  payable  at  Tulynton  on  Midsummer  day  next. 
Dated  Sunday  after  St.  Dunstan  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  26  May. 

May  26.         William  Kelseye  to  William  de  Home  of  Apuldre  co.  Kent.    Recog- 
Westminster.  nisance  for  20  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  Lincolnshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  William  de  Home  of  Apuldre  co.  Kent,  granting  with 
warranty  to  Peter  Kelseye  clerk,  John  de  Folkyngham  clerk  and 
Hugh  Mitford,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  33s.  id.  to  be 
taken  of  the  lands  of  Richard  de  Willesford  of  Welbourne  co.  Lincoln 
in  the  town  of  Welbourne,  to  the  said  William  granted  by  the  said  Richard 
during  the  life  of  Joan  ^^ife  of  Sir  Thomas  Fogghe  who  was  wife  of 
William  de  Cotstede,  to  be  paid  at  the  New  Temple  London  at  Easter 
and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears. 
Dated  the  New  Temple  London,  20  May  39  Edward  IIL      French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   27  May. 

May  28.         Gosselin  Surteys  and  Thomas  de  Kelshowe  to  Richard  de  Chestrefeld 
W^estminster.  clerk.     Recognisance  for  20/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Northumberland. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

June  7.  John  Mounpellers  to  David  de  Wollore  and  Thomas  de  Neuby. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  6/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  SufPolk. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  David. 

June  16.        Richard  Loveday  of  Essex  to  John  de  Bampton.      Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  40/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Essex. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


Membrane  26c/. 

May  28.        To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  to  take  into  the  hands 

Westminster,  of  the  mayor  and  chamberlain  of  the  said  city  all  taverns  in  the  city 

and  suburbs  wherein  sweet  wines  are  sold,  and  to  cause  the  king's 

order  concerning  the  same  to  be  proclaimed   and   observed  ;    as   for 

particular  causes  shewn  before    the    king,   the  prelates,   nobles   and 


39  EDWARD  III.  177 


1365.  Membrane  2Qd — cont. 

others  of  his  council,  ho  has  with  their  assent  ordered  that  the  taverns 
aforesaid  and  the  retailing  of  such  wines  shall  be  taken  into  the  hands 
of  the  said  mayor  and  chamberlain,  and  three  taverns  only  shall  bo 
by  them  appointed  for  the  sale  thereof,  one  in  tlie  street  of  Chepe, 
another  in  that  of  Walbroke,  and  the  third  in  Ijumbardstrete,  that 
no  man  shall  sell  sweet  wines  in  other  places  of  the  city  and  suburbs 
nor  in  those  three  taverns  save  those  deputed  for  the  purpose  by  the  said 
mayor  and  chamberlain  under  pain  of  forfeiting  such  wines  to  the 
use  of  the  mayor  and  commonalty  of  the  city,  that  a  competent  price 
be  put  upon  those  wines  by  the  said  mayor  and  chamberlain 
at  the  beginning  of  the  year  without  any  increase  to  be  made  by  those 
who  by  their  appointment  shall  sell  them,  and  that  all  profits  arising 
as  well  of  the  sale  as  of  the  forfeiture  of  such  wines  shall  go  to  the  use 
of  the  commonalty  of  the  said  city  by  the  hands  of  the  said  mayor 
and  chamberlain  in  aid  of  tlie  repair  of  walls,  ditches  and  other  things 
needful.  Nevertheless  it  is  the  king's  intent  that  those  who  have 
sweet  wines  in  taverns  and  other  places  may  lawfully  sell  them  in  gross 
to  the  said  mayor  and  chamberlain  or  to  others  who  will  buy  them  in 
gross.  By  K. 

[Fcedera.     Bolls  of  Parliament,  ii.  p.  459.] 

June  2.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  to  stay  altogether  the  further 

Westminster,  holding  of  a  plea  before  them  at  the  suit  of  John  Baret  for  an  alleged 
trespass  against  him  at  the  suburb  of  London,  where  the  chancery 
now  is,  committed  by  William  de  Notyngham  a  servant  dwelling  with 
certain  clerks  of  the  chancery,  telling  the  said  John  on  behalf  of  the  king 
to  repair  to  the  chancery  and  there  sue  for  justice  if  he  shall  think 
fit ;  as  the  cognisance  of  pleas  concerning  trespasses  committed  against 
clerks  of  chancery  or  their  servants  a,nd  ministers  in  places 
where  the  chancery  may  abide,  or  trespasses  by  the  said  clerks,  their 
ministers  or  servants  dwelling  with  them  there  committed  against 
others,  pertains  to  the  chancellor  or  the  keeper  of  the  seal  for  the 
time  being,  and  used  so  to  do  time  out  of  mind  ;  and  that  custom 
Mas'accepted  and  approved  by  the  king,  the  prelates,  earls,  barons  and 
others  in  a  parliament  liolden  at  Westminster  in  the  18th  year  of  the 
reign,  as  appears  by  endorsement  of  a  petition  presented  in  the  said 
parliament  and  enrolled  upon  the  roll  thereof  ;  and  the  sheriffs  are 
holding  pleas  before  them  at  the  suit  of  the  said  John,  drawing  to  them 
the  cognisance  of  matters  which  pertain  to  the  chancellor  now  being 
there  and  to  none  other  contrary  to  the  custom  aforesaid  and  the 
approval  thereof,  and  the  king  would  not  that  the  clerks  of  the 
chancery,  their  servants  or  ministers  should  be  dealt  with  otherwise 
than  in  times  past  used  to  be  done  in  like  case. 
[Ibid.  p.  15i.] 

Writing  of  Fulk  Horwode  citizen  of  London,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Nicholas  de  Lovayne  knight  and  his  heirs  of  the  manor 
of  Nuttefeld  with  the  knights'  fees,  advowsons  of  churches,  vicarages 
and  chapels,  royalties,  liberties,  parks,  woods,  warrens,  pastures, 
feedings,  moors,  marshes,  ponds,  fish  ponds,  turbaries,  fisheries,  services 
of  free  tenants  and  neifs  etc.  thereto  belonging.  Dated  London, 
21  May  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum,  of  acknowledgment,  9  June. 

E  12 


I 


178  CALENDAR  OP  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  2M. 

Writing  of  Fulk  Horwode  citizen  and  mercer  {mercerus)  of  London, 
granting  with  warranty  to  Nicholas  de  Lovayne  knight,  his  executors 
and  assigns,  all  the  estate  in  the  manor  of  Aldebury  in  the  parish  of 
Merstham  co.  Surrey,  with  all  lands,  meadows,  woods,  feedings, 
pastures,  waters,  Avays,  paths,  hedges,  ditches,  rents,  wards,  marriages, 
reliefs,  heriots,  escheats  and  other  advantages,  which  he  the  said  Fulk, 
his  executors  and  assigns,  have  by  demise  of  Nicholas  le  Freynsh  of 
Reygate  co.  Surrey  and  Joan  his  wife  from  16  February  34  Edward  III 
to  Michaelmas  following  and  thenceforward  for  a  term  of  eight  years, 
subject  to  a  rent  of  50s.  yearly  payable  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by 
even  portions,  19s.  yearly  payable  to  the  chief  lord  of  the  fee,  and  the 
other  services  thereof  due  except  suit  of  the  court  of  Canterbury 
which  Nicholas  le  Freynsh  and  Joan  ought  to  perform,  which  estate 
the  said  Joan  in  her  widowhood  ratified  by  her  writing.  Witnesses  : 
Richard  BurstoA\'e,  Thomas  atte  Holylond,  Henry  atte  Helde,  Thomas 
Albon,  Walter  atte  Thornfrith,  John  de  Bodekesham,  John  atte  Lee. 
Dated  Notefeld,  26  May  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   9  June. 

Writing  of  Fulk  de  Horwode  citizen  and  '  grocer '  of  London, 
granting  to  Sir  Nicholas  de  Lovayne  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
a  3;  early  rent  of  4  marks  which  Nicholas  Gervays  of  Merstham  co. 
Surrey  was  bound  to  pay  to  William  de  Cobham  of  Chafford,  his 
heirs  and  assigns,  at  four  terms  in  the  year  of  all  the  lands  which 
Martin  Gervais  and  Joan  his  wife  purchased  of  Thomas  de  Cobham 
and  Elizabeth  his  wife  in  Merstham,  and  of  all  those  in  the  said  town 
which  came  by  inheritance  to  the  said  Joan,  which  rent  the  said  William 
by  deed  gave  to  him  the  said  Fulk,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  and  the  said 
Nicholas  Gervays  confirmed  that  gift  by  deed,  granting  for  himself 
and  his  heirs  power  to  the  said  Fulk,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  to  distrain 
for  arrears  in  all  the  lands  aforesaid.  Witnesses :  Richard  de 
Borstowe,  Thomas  de  Holilond,  Walter  de  Thornfrith,  Henry  atte 
Helde,  Thomas  Alban,  John  de  Bodekesham,  John  atte  Lee.  Dated 
Nuttefeldo,   26  May  39  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandiim  of  acknowledgment,  9  June. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Daldoun  knight,  giving  to  Sir  Walter  de  Pavely 
knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  401.  of  all  his  manors 
and  lands  in  Kent  payable  at  Midsummer  and  Christmas  by  even 
portions,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears.  Witnesses :  John 
Kiriel,  John  de  Clynton,  Stephen  de  Valoyns,  Lawrence  de  Brenlyf, 
Tliomas  Moraunt  knights,  John  Colpeper,  William  Appuldcrfeld,  Thomas 
Colpeper.     Dated  Henden,  10  June  39  Edward  III.     French. 

^Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  12  June. 

Charter  of  Thomas  Daldoun  knight,  granting  with  warranty  to 
Thomas  de  Houngreford  and  John  de  Gildesburgh,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  the  manor  of  Burgherssh  with  the  members  of  Hegclond 
and  Pesemerssli  with  the  appurtenances  in  Sussex  as  fully  as  he  the 
said  Thomas  Daldoun  ever  had  the  same.  Witnesses  :  Alan  de 
BuxhuU,  William  de  Ecchyngham,  John  Seintclier  knights,  Richard 
Hurst,  William  Tank,  John  Dasshebournham,  Roger  Dasshebournham. 
Dated  Burgherssh,  10  June  39  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  12  June. 


39  EDWARD  III.  179 


1365.  Membrane  25d — cont. 

Indenture  made  at  London  between  Sir  liaitliolomew  de  Burgherssh 
knight  and  Sir  Thomas  Daldoun  knight,  being  the  defeasance  of  a  statute 
merchant  whereby  tlie  said  Sir  Thonuis  is  bound  for  2,000  marks, 
upon  condition  that  from  this  day  forth  Sir  Thomas  shall  not  sell  nor 
to  farm  let  any  of  the  manors,  nor  parcel  thereof,  nor  any  land  he  has 
or  which  may  come  to  liim,  save  by  will  of  Sir  Bartholomew,  that  he 
shall  be  ready  to  enter  into  the  warranty  of  the  manor  of  Burgherssh 
toA\ard  ThoTuas  de  Houngreford  and  John  de  Gildisbury,  and  without 
delay  or  debate  to  be  traverser  whensoever  by  them  vouched  in  a  writ 
concerning  the  said  manor  which  Sir  Bartholomew  shall  bring  against 
the   said   Thomas   de    Houngreford     and     John.       Dated     London, 

11  June  39  Edward  HI.     French. 

Memorandum    of    acknowledgment    by     the    said     Bartholomew, 

12  June. 

May  10.  To  the  constable  of  Tuttebury  castle.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of 
Westminster.  John  de  Worthyngton,  if  Nicholas  de  Atherton  shall  at  the  king's 
command  or  other\\ise  be  set  free  from  the  prison  of  the  said  castle, 
immediately  to  send  again  his  body  to  the  sheriff  of  Lancaster  to  be 
by  him  imprisoned,  according  to  a  judgment  of  Godfrey  Folejambe 
and  his  fellows  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  Lancasliire,  until  he  shall 
content  the  said  John  of  100  marks  damages,  under  pain  of  answering 
to  the  said  John  for  that  sum  if  the  said  Nicholas  be  not  so  sent  again ; 
as  the  said  John  recovered  the  damages  aforesaid  in  a  plea  against  the 
said  Nicholas  before  the  said  justices  concerning  a  trespass  whereof 
Nicholas  was  convicted,  and  for  that  cause  the  body  of  Nicholas  was 
arrested  and  committed  to  the  sheriff's  custody,  and  he  is  now 
imprisoned  in  the  said  castle  at  the  king's  command  by  writ  of  privy 
seal,  as  appears  by  the  record  and  process  of  the  said  plea  which  the 
king  has  caused  to  come  before  him  in  chancerv  ;  and'  the  said  petition 
shews  that  Nicholas  is  procuring  his  deliverance  from  the  said  castle, 
and  that  his  purpose  is  so  to  escape  without  contenting  the  said  John. 

May  28.         To  John  de  Sutton  of  Lincoln.     Order,  under  pain  of  forfeiture, 

Westminster,  upon  sight  of  these  presents,  to  make  ready  himself  with  six  men  well 

armed,  and  with  all  speed  to  repair  to  the  town  of  Calais,  there  to  abide 

as  one  of  the  aldermen  thereof  with  the  other  aldermen  for  defence  of 

the  said  town  according  to  the  order  made  by  the  king  and  council. 

Membrane  24:d. 

April  28.  To  the  warden  of  the  Fleet  prison.  Order  to  cause  John  Rodelond 
Westminster,  of  Norwich  to  be  set  free  from  the  said  prison,  of  the  king's  favour 
suffering  him  this  time  to  go  his  way  ;  as  the  said  John  lately  accused 
Richard  Spynk  of  Norwich  before  the  king  of  having  procured  by  a  false 
suggestion  made  to  the  king  the  release  from  custody  without  ransom 
of  four  burgesses  of  Amiens  who  were  held  to  the  king  at  a  great  ransom 
and  for  that  cause  in  custody  in  Dovorre  castle  ;  and  for  that  he  was 
assured  that  the  accusation  was  false  and  untrue,  the  king  ordered 
that  the  said  John  should  be  arrested  and  committed  to  the  said 
prison  according  to  the  statute  concerning  false  accusers,  there  to 
abide  until  further  order  ;  and  having  regard  to  his  long  abode  there, 
of  his  compassion  and  favour  the  king  has  pardoned  the  trespass  so 
made,  and  his  imprisonment,  and  whatsoever  pertains  to  the  king  in 
that  behalf.  By  K. 


I 


180  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  2id — cont. 

June  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Richard  Spicer 
Westminster,  of  Estmallyng,  to  stay  the  taking  of  his  body  by  the  mainprise  of 
William  Alayn  and  William  Worte  of  Canterbury  co.  Kent,  bringing 
this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  at  the  day  the  writ  de 
judicio  is  returnable  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  Geoffrey  James  is 
impleading  him  before  the  said  justices  for  an  alleged  trespass,  and 
that  by  the  said  writ  the  sheriff  is  ordered  to  take  his  body  so  as 
to  have  him  befoi'e  the  justices  on  a  day  therein  named,  though  he 
is  ready  to  answer  the  said  Richard  {sic)  and  to  stand  to  right  in  all 
things  ;  and  the  said  William  and  William  appearing  in  person  in 
chancery  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have  him  there 
on  the  said  day  to  answer  to  the  said  Geoffrey. 

May  L5.  To  Henry  Grene  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  liold  pleas 
Westminster,  before  the  king.  Order  by  writ  of  nisi  prius  to  command  that  the 
inquisitions  which  remain  to  be  taken  between  the  king  and  Isabel 
his  daughter  on  the  one  part  and  John  de  Dynham  on  the  other  part, 
notwithstanding  that  the  business  affects  the  king  and  his  said  daughter, 
if  not  yet  taken,  be  taken  before  John  de  Moubray  one  of  the  justices 
of  the  Bench,  namely  whether  Thomas  de  Courtenaye  tenant  in  chief, 
Avhose  lands  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  Hugh 
his  son  and  heir  and  in  the  Avardship  of  the  said  Isabel  by  the  king's 
commission,  was  at  his  death  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  the  manors 
of  Sutton  Lucy,  ColcA^yll,  Plumtrowe,  Wodehiwyssh,  Harleston, 
Donterton  and  Suthpole  co.  Devon,  Wotton  Kriket  and  the  hamlet 
of  Northome  co.  Somerset,  as  in  the  process  held  before  the  said 
justices,  is  alleged  on  behalf  of  the  king  and  Isabel,  or  whether  the  said 
Thomas  in  his  life  time  demised  the  premises  to  the  said  John,  as  is 
by  him  alleged,  without  that  that  Thomas  at  his  death  was  thereof 
so  seised.  Proviso  that  proceedings  shall  not  go  forward  to  the 
rendering  of  judgment  without  advising  the  king. 

May  16.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order,  at  the 
Westminster,  prayer  of  Agnes  who  Avas  wife  of  John  Mautravers  the  elder,  to  stay 
until  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next  their  demand  against  her  made 
by  exchequer  summons  and  their  distraint  for  the  issues  or  value  of  the 
manor  of  Rathgel  co.  Lymyrik,  in  order  that  she  may  in  the  meantime 
sue  for  execution  in  the  court  of  Ireland  at  her  peril,  if  she  shall  think 
fit  ;  as  lately  on  the  finding  of  an  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's 
command  by  Nicholas  de  Bekenesfeld  esclieator  in  Ireland,  that  John 
Mautravers  the  younger  at  his  death  held  the  said  manor  for  life  in 
chief  by  knight  service  of  the  demise  of  John  Mautravers  the  elder 
with  reversion  to  the  said  John  the  elder,  at  the  suit  of  John  the  elder 
in  chancery  in  the  octaves  of  the  Purification  in  the  37th  year  of  the 
reign,  alleging  that  the  said  manor  is  held  of  the  then  countess 
Dessemund  as  of  her  manor  of  Inskysty  and  not  in  chief,  and  for 
that  it  was  alleged  on  the  king's  behalf  that  it  is  held  in  chief  as  by  the 
said  inquisition  found,  and  by  John  the  elder  aliened  without  the  king's 
licence  to  John  the  younger  for  life,  the  king  sent  the  business  for  debate 
before  the  justices  appointed  to  hold  pleas  which  attend  the  justiciary 
of  Ireland,  and  meanwhile  by  letters  patent  committed  the  keeping 
of  the  said  manor  to  John  the  elder,  so  that  he  should  answer  to  the 
king  at  the  exchequer  of  Dublin  for  the  issues  or  the  value  thereof 
if  the  said  manor  or  the  wardship  thereof  should  be  adjudged  to  pertain 


:i9  EDWARD  IIJ. 


181 


1305. 


Membrane  24^(1 — cont. 


to  the  king  ;  and  now  on  buluilf  of  the  said  Agnos  the  king  is  informed 
that  John  the  elder  in  his  hfe  time  with  all  diligence  sued  for  debate 
of  the  business  in  the  court  of  Ireland,  that  he  died  while  process  was 
pending,  that  by  his  death  the  manor  was  taken  into  tlie  king's  hand, 
and  that  she  as  executor  of  his  will  is  being  distrained  by  exchequer 
summons  to  render  at  the  exchequer  of  England  the  said  issues  or 
value  for  the  tinie  that  the  said  manor  was  in  her  said  husband's  hand 
by  the  king's  commission,  praying  that  such  distraint  be  stayed, 
and  that  she  may  sue  for  debate  as  aforesaid  in  the  court  of 
Ireland. 


Membrane  2Sd. 

June  9.  To  Tii.   archbishop  of  Dublin.     Request  and  command  upon  his 

Westminster,  allegiance,  as  he  cares  for  the  king's  honour  and  lii»  own  and  would 
a\'oid  the  king's  wrath,  to  meet  together  with  the  archbishop  of  Armach, 
and  setting  forth  the  business  and  the  rigJits  of  the  matter,  and 
suppressing  all  rancour  and  discord,  to  treat  amicably  and  establish 
such  concord  that  either  may  without  let  or  resistance  carry 
(bandnre)  the  cross  before  him  and  pass  with  his  household  amicabl}' 
in  the  province  of  the  other,  considering  the  example  of  the  debate 
in  like  case  moved  between  the  archbishops  of  Canterbury  and  York, 
which  upon  request  and  interposition  on  the  king's  behalf  was  reformed 
by  perpetual  concord,  and  if  for  any  impediment  this  may  not  be  done, 
to  be  before  the  king  in  England  in  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next 
to  give  information  thereupon,  and  to  do  and  receive  what  shall  by  him 
and  the  council  be  ordered  ;  as  it  is  the  king's  hearty  desire  that  peace 
shall  flourish  among  his  subjects,  and  since  debate  has  arisen  on 
the  matter  aforesaid,  as  the  king  has  learned,  his  heart  is  set  upon  a 
speedy  agreement.  By  K. 

The  like,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  the  archbishop  of  Armach.  By  K. 

{Feeder  a. ^ 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Kelshowe  burgess  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne, 
giving  to  Edmund  earl  of  Cantebrigge  his  lord,  for  a  sum  of  money  to 
him  due  by  the  said  Thomas,  a  ship  called  la  Laurence  of  Newcastle  upon 
Tyne  with  all  the  gear  thereof  and  all  the  merchandise  therein,  \^'hich 
ship  and  merchandise  w  ere  forfeited  to  the  king  for  divers  merchandise 
therein  found  uncustomed,  and  by  his  letters  patent  restored  to  the  said 
Thomas  of  the  king's  favour  and  for  40^.  paid  at  the  receipt  of  the 
exchequer.     Dated  London,   14  June  39  Edward  III. 

3Iemorandum  of  ackno\sledgment.* 

,  June  12.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made 
Westminster,  that  every  able  bodied  man  of  the  said  city  on  feast  da.ys  when  he  has 
leisure  shall  in  his  sports  use  bows  and  arrows  or  pellets  or  bolts,  and 
shall  learn  and  practise  the  art  of  shooting,  forbidding  them  under  pain 
of  imprisonment  to  meddle  in  hurling  of  stones,  loggats  and  quoits, 
handball,  football,  club  ball,  cambuc,  cock  fighting  or  other  vain 
games  of  no  value  ;  as  the  people  of  the  realm,  noble  and  simple, 
used  heretofore  to  practise  the  said  art  in  their  sports,  whence  by  God's 
help  came  forth  honour  to  the  kingdom  and  advantage  to  the  king 
in  his  actions  of  war,  and  now  the  said  art  is  almost  wholly  disused, 

*  The  date  omitted. 


182 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365. 


Membrane  2Sd — cont. 


and  the  people  indulge  in  the  games  aforesaid  and  in  other  dishonest 
and  unthrifty  or  idle  games,  whereby  the  realm  is  like  to  be  without 
archers.  By  K. 

[Fcedera.'] 

The  like  to  singular  the  sheriffs  of  England. 

[Ibid.] 

Indenture  of  feoffment  made  by  William  de  Cornewaille  and  Joan  his 
wife  to  Nicholas  de  Twyford  the  younger  citizen  of  Londoii,  his  heirs 
■  and  assigns,  of  all  the  land  called  Aspefeld  in  the  parish  of  Shaldeswell 
with  the  meadows,  pastures,  leasowes  and  ditches  thereto  pertaining, 
which  lands,  meadows  etc,  are  called  several,  rendering  yearly  one 
rose  at  Midsummer  during  the  ten  next  years  for  all  services  and 
demands,  and  thenceforward  7  marks  yearly  at  Easter,  with  power  to 
the  grantors  again  to  enter  and  hold  the  premises  if  the  rent  be  one 
month  in  arrear.  Covenant  that  if  the  premises  be  charged  by  any 
statute  merchant,  recognisance,  rent  charge  or  debt  to  the  king 
whereby  the  grantees  shall  without  their  default  suffer  charge, 
loss  or  hurt,  or  if  the  said  grantees  shall  lose  the  premises  or 
parcel  thereof  by  title  earlier  than  this  date,  or  Avithout  fraud 
of  theirs  be  put  out  for  such  cause,  the  said  William  and  Joan  and 
their  heirs  shall  recompense  them ;  and  covenant  for  defeasance  of  a 
statute  merchant  of  531.  6s.  8d.  by  the  said  William  made  to  the  said 
Nicholas,  upon  condition  that  the  said  William  and  Joan  and  their  heirs 
shall  keep  the  covenants  herein  contained,  and  that  they  shall  warrant 
the  premises  to  the  grantees  without  other  charge  or  demand.  Nicholas 
de  Twyford  father  of  the  said  Nicholas  and  Joan  de  Couele  appointed 
attorneys  of  the  grantors  to  deliver  seisin.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Richard 
Damory,  Sir  Roger  de  Cotesford,  Sir  Richard  Dabberbury  knights, 
John  Purcel,  Nicholas  de  Somerton.  Dated  London,  Michaelmas  day 
39  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  William  and  Nicholas, 
6  October. 

June  26.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  cause  proclamation 
Westminster,  to  be  made  that  smiths  who  make  swords,  knives  and  other  weapons 
in  the  cit}'^  of  London  shall  put  particular  marks  upon  all  their  handi- 
work, that  the  same  being  so  marked  shall  be  shewn  before  the  mayor, 
sheriffs  and  aldermen  of  London  in  the  Gildehall  of  the  city  so  that 
every  man's  work  may  be  known  by  his  mark,  and  that  they  shall 
forfeit  any  works  sold  without  such  mark  or  the  price  thereof,  causing 
the  premises  to  be  observed,  and  any  works  found  to  have  been  sold 
or  exposed  for  sale  in  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London  without  marks 
to  be  seized  as  forfeit  into  the  king's  hand,  and  answer  to  be  made 
,to  him  for  them.  By  K. 

j  [Fcedera.] 

Me 31  BRA  NE  22d. 

June  18.*        Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Coupland  to  John  de  Monte  Acuto 
Westminster,  knight.     Recognisance  for  500  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  pay- 
ment, oi  her  lands  and  chattels  in  Northumberland. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  John  de  Mountagu  and  Joan  who  was 
\^ife  of  John  de  Coupland,  being  a  lease  of  the  castle  and  barony  of 
Werk  upon  Twede  with  fees,  advowsons  etc.  thereto  belonging  to  the 


39  EDWARD  III.  1h3 


1365.  Membrane.  22d — cont. 

said  Joaa  and  her  assigrus,  being  lieges  of  the  king  and  none  other, 
for  a  term  of  seven  years  from  Martinmas  next  if  slie  so  long  Hve, 
or  to  her  assigns  or  executors  for  one  year  only  after  her  death  if  slie 
shall  die  within  the  said  term,  rendering  200  marks  a  year  to  the  said 
Sir  John  and  his  heirs  at  his  lodging  in  the  parish  of  St.  Clement 
without  the  bar  of  the  New  Temple  London  at  VV^hitsuntide  and 
Martinmas  by  even  portions,  the  said  Joan,  her  assigns  or  executors, 
guarding,  maintaining  and  defending  the  premises  during  the  said 
term  against  all  men  save  the  king  and  his  eldest  son  at  their  own 
costs  so  far  as  they  reasonably  may  considering  the  state  thereof  at 
present  or  when  repaired  at  the  cost  of  the  lessor,  witliout  waste 
of  lands  or  buildings,  save  that  allowance  shall  be  made  to  the 
lessees  for  any  destruction  arising  from  public  war  as  other  lords 
in  those  parts  make  to  tenants  in  like  case,  but  as  to  making  and 
repairing  the  castle  walls  the  lessor,  his  heirs  and  executors,  shall  be 
thereu  ith  charged.  Covenants  for  reentry  of  the  lessor  until  arrears  and 
costs  be  paid  if  the  said  rent  be  40  days  in  arrear,  saving  to  the  lessee 
the  goods  therein  found  ;  for  outlay  of  40  marks  of  the  said  farm 
during  the  first  year  upon  the  repair  of  the  '  dongon  '  or  walls  of  the 
castle,  and  of  further  sums  by  agreement ;  for  power  to  the  lessor 
to  sell  or  exchange  the  premises  during  the  said  term  upon  giving 
half  a  year's  warning  to  the  lessee,  and  to  the  lessee  to  surrender 
the  same  upon  one  gear's  warning  given  to  the  lessor,  his  heirs  or 
executors  in  person  if  in  England,  or  at  his  manor  of  Stoke  in  Hamme 
CO.  Devon,  so  that  recompense  be  made  of  a  proportion  of  tlie  farm 
for  the  time  she  shall  hold  the  same  ;  for  defeasance  of  the  foregoing 
recognisance  upon  condition  that  the  lessee  shall  pay  the  said  rent 
and  defend  the  premises  as  aforesaid  during  the  said  term,  not  making 
waste  beyond  the  value  of  100s ;  that  in  case  the  said  castle  be  taken 
or  burnt  by  enemies,  and  they  be  thence  thrust  out  by  the  lessee  or  by 
her  procurement  without  cost  to  the  lessor,  upon  condition  that  alie 
shall  as  speedily  as  may  be  repair  the  damage  in  walls  or  buildings  by 
such  enemies  done,  she  shall  not  be  charged  with  500  marks  by 
reason  of  the  said  recognisance,  nor  otherwise  be  answerable  for  the 
taking  or  burning  thereof ;  the  lessor  binding  himself  and  his 
executors  for  performance  of  his  part  of  all  these  matters.  Dated 
London,  20  June  1365,  39  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  25  June. 

Charter  of  William  son  of  William  de  Septem  Vannis  knight  [militis), 
giving  with  warranty  to  Richard  Herst  and  Joan  his  wife,  their  heirs 
and  assigns,  his  manor  of  Morhale  co.  Sussex,  with  all  his  lands,  rents 
and  services  of  free  tenants  and  neifs  in  the  towns  of  Nemnefeld, 
Wertelyngge  and  Hoo.  Witnesses  :  William  Batelisford,  Richard 
Halle,  Thomas  Pepelisham,  Ralph  atte  Levere,  Robert  Eliot.  Dated 
Hellyngleye  co.   Sussex,    12  February   39   Edward  III. 

Writing  of  William  son  of  William  de  Septem  Vannis  knight  {militis), 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Richard  Herst  and  Joan  his  wiie, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Morhale  co.  Sussex  with  lands, 
rents  and  services  of  free  tenants  and  neifs  in  the  towns  of  Nemnefeld, 
Wertelyngge  and  Hoo.  Witnesses  {as  the  last).  Dated  Hellyngleye, 
24  June  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  26  June. 


1'84  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  22d—conL 

June  27.        John  Burewell,  Henry  Fyssh  and  Thomas  WorHch  to  the  abbot 
Westminster,  of  Battle.     Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  lOOZ.,  to  be  levied,  in 
default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Suffolk. 

John  Launde  and  John  Tournour  of  Hampstede  to  the  abbot  of 
Battle.  Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  lOOL,  to  be  levied  etc. 
in  Essex. 

July  3.  William  Cosyn  '  brasiere  '  of  Algatstrete  to  John  de  Gosebourne. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  401.  to  be  levied  etc.  in  the  city  of  London. 

Membrane  21c?. 

Charter  of  Ralpli  Basset  lord  of  Drayton,  giving  with  warranty 
to  John  Brunyng  of  Upmelecombe,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the  manor 
of  Upmelecombe  with  appurtenances,  as  in  messuages,  lands,  meadows, 
woods,  pastures,  moors,  furze  {janettis),  rents,  services  of  free  and 
villein  tenants  and  all  that  goes  with  them,  together  with  the  advow- 
son  of  Melecombe,  and  the  rents  and  services  of  Edward  de  Cerne, 
Katherine  de  Byngham,  Roger  de  Manyngf ord,  John  Russel  and  Henry 
de  Littelton  in  Dorset.  Witnesses  :  John  de  Chidiok,  Alan  de  Cheigny 
knights,  Thomas  de  la  Bere,  John  de  Brudemere,  Roger  de  Coker, 
William  de  Henton.  Dated  Westminster,  Friday  after  St.  Dunstan 
39  Edward  III. 
J        Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  17  June. 

June  19.        Geoffrey  de  Lucy  to  Juliana  countess  of  Huntyngdon.     Recognis- 
Westminster.  ance  for  200/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Kent. 

Writing  of  Alice  de  Huntyngfeld,  cousin  and  heir  of  Richard  de 
Amoimdeville,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Robert  de 
Ufford  earl  of  Suffolk,  Edmund  his  brother,  Adam  de  Skakelthorp 
parson  of  Causton  and  Adam  Haweboys  parson  of  Cokefeld,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Thorneye  and  all  the  rent  now  or 
heretofore  pertaining  to  the  said  manor  as  fully  as  the  said  Richard 
in  his  life  time  held  the  same.  Dated  London,  Friday  before  Mid- 
summer 39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  June. 

June  20.        Walter  de  Aston  parson  of  Dumbelton  to  Thomas  Mounte  clerk 
Westminster,  and  Thomas  Panes.     Recognisance  for  6  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Worcestershire. 

Geoffrey  Chiryton  to  Thomas  Mounte  clerk  and  Thomas  Panes. 
Recognisance  for  4  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Warwickshire. 

Writing  of  Matthew  son  of  Geoffrey  de  Stowelle  knight  {miliiis}, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  \\-arranty  to  Sir  Nicholas  de  Lovayne  knight 
and  Margaret  his  wife,  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  Nicholas,  of  all 
the  lands,  rents,  services,  woods,  meadows  and  pastures  sometime  of 
Ahce  de  Columbers  in  the  parishes  of  Peneshurst,  Chidyngston,  Lye, 
Tonebrugge,  Buttebergh  and  Spedhurst.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Andrew  de 
Sakeville,  Sir  Richard  de  Tittesham,  Sir  John  de  Sancto  Claro  knights, 


39  EDWARD  HI.  185 


1305.  Membrane  2ld — cont. 

John  Colcpcpor,  Jolm  Chitecroft,  James  do  Pokliam,  Geoft'roy  (jolepopcr 
then  sljeritT  of  Kent.     Dated  Peneshurst,  Saturday  before  Midsummer 
39  Edwaid  HI. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  23  June. 

June  23.         John  atte  Grene  '  bocher  '  of  i\lgatstrate  co.  Middk-sex  to  John  de 
Westminster.  Gosebourne.     Recognisance  for  60/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Middlesex. 

Charter  of  William  Sepvauns,  son  of  William  Sepvauns  knight 
{militis),  giving  to  John  Gower,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent 
of  10/.  issuing  from  the  manor  of  W^ygebergh  and  from  all  the  grantor's 
lands  in  Essex,  to  be  taken  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions, 
with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears,  and  the  grantor  has  given  the 
said  Jolm  \d.  in  name  of  seisin  ;  also  all  the  chattels  live  and  dead 
thereupon,  to  take  and  drive  whither  he  will.  Dated  23  June 
39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  25  June. 

Writing  of  William  Sepvauns,  son  and  heir  of  William  Sepvauns 
late  deceased,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  Gower,  his 
heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  whole  manor  of  Aldynton  with  14s.  Qd.  of 
rent  and  a  rent  of  one  cock,  13  hens  and  140  eggs  in  Maplescompe, 
and  the  homages  and  all  the  services  of  the  tenants  who  ought  to  render 
the  same.  Witnesses  :  James  de  Peckham,  William  Vauls,  Richard  de 
Aldynton,  Alan  de  Chelscombe,  Richard  atte  Wode. 

Memora'ndum  of  acknowledgment,  25  June. 

June  22.  To  Richard  de  Adderbury  and  John  de  Evesham.  Order  not  to 
Westminster,  meddle  henceforward  in  certain  trespasses  and  misdeeds  in  Berkshire 
with  Warin  de  Lisle  and  John  de  Baldyngton  or  either  of  them,  although 
the  king  lately  appointed  them  all  guardians  of  his  peace  and  justices 
of  oyer  and  terminer  to  deal  therewith,  and  to  do  other  things  in  the 
letters  patent  contained ;  as  the  king  for  particular  causes  has  discharged 
the  said  Richard  and  John  de  Evesham  of  that  office.  The  king  has 
commanded  the  said  Warin  and  John  de  Baldyngton  to  attend  to  the 
execution  of  the  said  commission,  the  presence  of  the  said  Richard  and 
John  de  Evesham  notwithstanding. 

By  K.  on  the  information  of  the  steward. 

Charter  of  John  de  Bykenore  of  Claveryng  called  '  la  Veel,'  lord 
of  the  manor  of  Coldham  co.  Essex  and  cousin  and  heir  of  Robert  de 
Bikenore  of  Derteford  co.  Kent,  giving  with  warranty  to  the  king, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  the  manor  of  Portebrig  and  all  the  lands,  rents 
and  services  which  came  to  him  after  the  death  of  the  said  Robert  in 
the  towns  of  Derteford,  Wylmynton  and  Stone  with  the  advowson 
of  one  chapel  or  chantry  of  St.  Edmund  the  king  in  Derteford. 
Witnesses  :  Robert  de  Louthe,  Thomas  de  Thorp  clerk,  Michael 
Skillyng,  Simon  de  Kegworth,  John  Neweport,  Edmund  Lambyn, 
Robert  Elinrigge,  Thomas  Huehon,  John  Godeman,  Geoffrey  Gonale, 
John  Sewale,  John  Bere,  Thomas  Sewale.  Dated  Derteford, 
11  May  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  June. 


186  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  21d — cont. 

June  30.        Sampson    Matham    of    Sabrichesworth    co.    Hertford    to    Hamelin 
Westminster.  Matham  of  Surrey.     Recognisance  for  400L,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Hertfordshire. 

Membrane  20d. 

Charter  of  William  .Wyngefeld,  John  de  Rokwode,  Thomas  Tu, 
Richard  Becheshale  parson  of  Foxhirde  and  John  Palham  chaplain, 
granting  to  Dame  Joan  de  Bures  sometime  wife  of  Sir  Robert  de  Bures 
knight  for  her  life,  with  remainder  to  the  right  heirs  of  the  said 
Sir  Robert,  the  manor  of  Bures  St.  Mary  with  le  Netherhalle,  Asyngton, 
Great  Cornerd,  Little  Cornerd,  Wiston,  Great  Waldyngfeld, 
Little  Waldyngfeld,  Groten,  Edwardiston,  Meldyngg,  Brent  Illeghe, 
Foisted  and  Sudbery  which  they  lately  had  jointly  with  Dame  Alice  de 
Bures  mother  of  the  said  Sir  Robert  of  his  gift  and  feoffment,  Dame  Alice 
having  released  to  them  her  whole  estate.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Robert  de 
Swynbourne,  Sir  John  de  Botitourt  knights,  Robert  Giffard,  Thomas 
Boteler,  John  de  Sudbery,  William  Doreward,  Hugh  Fitz  Rauf.  Dated 
Aketon,  Thursday  the  feast  of  St.  Martin  Bishop  35  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  June  this  year. 

Writing  of  William  de  Wyngefeld,  Thomas  Tuwe,  Richard 
Bedeshale  [sic)  parson  of  Foxherde  and  John  de  Palham  chaplain, 
being  a  quitclaim  to  John  de  Rokwode  and  Alice  wife  of  John  de 
Sutton  knight  of  the  manor  of  Merkes  in  the  town  of  Roydon  co. 
Suffolk  and  elsewhere,  which  they  lately  had  jointly  with  the  said 
John  de  Rokwode  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Sir  Robert  de  Bures 
son  of  Andrew  de  Bures  knight.  Dated  Foxherde,  Thursday  in  Easter 
week  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  June. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Twe,  Richard  Becheshale  parson  of  Foxhirde 
and  John  Palham  chaplain,  being  a  quitclaim  to  William  de  Wyngefeld 
and  John  de  Rokewode  of  the  manors  of  Bures  St.  Mary  Avitli  le 
Netherhalle,  Assyngton,  Great  Cornerd,  Little  Cornerd,  Wyston, 
Great  Waldyngfeld,  Little  Waldyngfeld,  Croton  {sic),  Edwardiston, 
Meldyng,  Brent  Illeghe,  Posted  and  Sodbery.  Dated  Aketon, 
Thursday  in  Easter  week  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  June. 

Indenture  made  at  Westminster  on  Saturday  after  the  quinzaine 
of  Trinity  39  Edward  III,  between  John  de  Sutton  the  son  knight  and 
Alice  his  wife  of  the  one  part  and  John  de  Rokewode  of  the  other 
part,  granting  that  the  said  John  de  Sutton  and  Alice  shall  not  during 
the  Ufe  of  the  said  Alice  be  troubled  nor  impeached  by  the  said  John  de 
Rokewode,  his  heirs  or  assigns  for  waste  of  the  manor  of  Merkes  in 
Reydon  co.  Suffolk,  which  manor  by  fine  between  the  parties  levied 
before  the  justices  of  the  Common  Bench  at  Westminster  in  the  octaves 
of  Trinity  last  was  by  the  said  John  de  Sutton  and  Alice  acknowledged 
to  be  the  right  of  the  said  John  de  Rokewode,  who  rendered  the  same 
to  them  for  the  life  of  the  said  Alice,  saving  the  reversion  to  him  and 
his  heirs.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  John  de  Rokewode,  28  June. 


39  EDWARD  III.  Ib7 


1305.  Membrane  20d — cont. 

ludcutuie  made  between  John  son  of  Thomas  dc  Astelee  of  the  one 
j)art  and  Sir  John  Wade  canon  of  St.  l^aul  London  and  Robert  de 
LutTenham  of  the  other  part,  being  a  grant  to  the  said  .John  son  of 
Thomas  of  a  yearly  rent  of  two  marks  to  be  taken  of  all  the  lands  of 
the  said  Sir  John  and  Robert  in  Pikwell  co.  lieycestre  until  he  be  pro- 
vided with  a  benefice  of  the  value  of  40  marks,  or  shall  have  for  life 
40  marks  of  land,  rent  or  land  and  rent,  the  2  marks  to  be  paid  at 
INIichaelmas  and  l<]aster  by  even  portions,  \\ith  power  to  distrain  for 
arrears.  Dated  Astelee,  the  feast  of  St.  Barnabas  39  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  John  Wade  and  Robert  de 
LulTenham,  30  June. 

July  4.  John  abbot  of  Whallay,  for  himself  and  the  convent,  to  David  de 

Westminster,  ^^''ollore  clerk.  Recognisance  for  20  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  paymetit,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in 
Lancashire. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,   upon  condition  that  the  said  abbot 
pay  10  marks  in  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

July  5.  Richard  de   Haveryng   knight   to   Queen   Philippa.     Recognisance 

Westininster.  for  60/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Wyltes. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknoivledged  by  Richard  de  Ravenser  late 
receiver  of  the  said  queen^s  moneys  and  John  de  Gosebourne  auditor  of 
her  accounts. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Sancto  Quintino  and  Alice  his  wife,  granting 
that  Edmund  Wille  clerk  has  fully  accounted  to  them  for  the  time  he 
occupied  and  had  the  keeping  of  the  lands,  rents  and  services,  goods 
and  chattels  of  the  said  Alice,  and  has  contented  them  of  all  profits 
thence  arising  all  that  time,  and  releasing  to  the  said  Edmund,  his  heirs 
and  executors,  all  actions,  plaints  and  demands  by  reason  of  debt, 
account,  covenant,  contract,  trespass  etc.  Dated  London,  5  July 
39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Thomas,  6  July. 

July  8.  John  de  Blockeleye  the  younger  to  John  de  Blockeleye  parson  of 

Westminster.  Lytethurne.  Recognisance  for  20  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Worcestershire. 

July  9.  Adam    Kentissh    of    Kershalton    to    John    Pallyng    of    Drayton. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  16/.  payable  by  instalments  ;  to  be  levied  etc.  in 
SiUTey. 

July  8.  Andrew    Grauncort    to    Roger    Germayn.     Recognisance   for    40/., 

Westminster,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  the  city  of  London. 

Aug.  21.        Thomas  de  Lathum  knight  the  elder  to  William  de  Wyndesore  knight. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  40/.  payable  by  instalments  ;    to  be  levied  etc.  in 
Lancashire. 

Memorandum  tliat  this  recognisance  Avas  taken  by  William  de 
Skipwyth,  by  writ  of  dedimus  potestatem  which  is  on  the  files  for  this 
year. 


188  CALENDAR   OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1365w  Membrane  I9d. 

Charter  of  Hugh  Craan  citizen  of  Winchester,  giving  with  warranty 
to  Sir  Nicholas  de  Lovayne  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  his  manors 
of  Heggecourt  and  Coulyngle  with  a  wood  called  Lynlee  and  a  chapel 
situated  in  the  park  there,  and  with  parks,  mills,  woods,  meadows, 
pastures,  waters,  fisheries,  ponds,  fish  ponds,  ways,  paths,  turbaries, 
rents,  rehefs,  heriots,  suits  of  court,  rights  etc.  in  the  parishes  of 
Wolkenstede,  Grenstede,  Lyngefeld,  Home,  Crawle,  Borstowe  and 
Horle  cos.  Surrey  and  Sussex,  all  which  the  said  Hugh  had  of  the  gift 
of  John  Husee  brother  of  Sir  Roger  Husee  knight,  and  all  lands,  rents 
and  services  of  free  men  and  neifs  which  he  has  in  the  parishes  aforesaid. 
Witnesses  :  John  de  Sancto  Claro  knight,  Roger  Dalingrugge,  Thomas 
de  Leukenore,  Richard  de  Borstowe,  William  Newdegate,  Henry 
atte  Helde,  Robert  de  Weston.  Dated  Heggecourt,  10  June 
39  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Hugh  Craan  citizen  of  Wincliester,  being  a  quitclaim 
M  ith  warranty  to  Sir  Nicholas  de  Lovayne  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  the  manors,  wood,  chapel  etc.  {described  in  the  foregoing  charter). 
Witnesses  :  John  de  Sancto  Claro  knight,  Roger  Dalingrugge,  Richard 
de  Borstowe,  Thomas  de  Leukenore,  John  Boilly,  John  atte  Boure, 
Richard  Manfee.     Dated  Heggecourt,  20  June  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and  writing, 
8  July. 

Writing  of  Roger  Orwyn  of  Cambridgeshire,  brother  and  heir  of 
William  Sheppehird  of  Coppithall,  being  a  release  to  John  Pernyll 
parker  of  Coppithall  of  any  suit  against  him  concerning  the  late 
death  of  the  said  William  at  Coppithall  co.  Essex.  Dated  W^est- 
minster,  9  Julj   39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  10  July. 

July  11.         William  de  Swanlond,  son  and  heir  of  Simon  de  Swanlond  knight 
Westminster,  (militis),    to    Stephen    de    Cavendish    '  draper.'      Recognisance     for 
100  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Middlesex. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Sutton,  being  a  quitclaim  Avith  warranty 
to  William  Home,  Roger  Digge,  Hugh  de  Staunton,  William  Digge 
'  chaundeler  '  and  Joan  his  wife,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a  messuage 
with  appurtenances  in  Scholane.  Dated  London,  Tuesday  the 
Nativity  of  St.  John  Baptist  39  Edward  III.  Witnesses  :  John  Rote, 
Thomas  Hermyn,  Robert  de  York,  William  Sallowe,  John  Hedyngham, 
Simon  atte  Nax,  Wilham  de  Bathe,  Wilham  de  Eyette. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  11  July. 

July  13.         Thomas  de  Shepton  parson  of  Melles  co.  Somerset,  Walter  Corb5m 
Westminster,  and  Richard  Tournour  citizens  [and]  tailors  of  London  to  William  de 
Pikwell  parson  of  Trent.     Recognisance  for  100  marks,  to  be  levied, 
in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Somerset. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

July  13.        John  de  Romesy  to  William  de  Sandford  clerk.     Recognisance  for 
Westminster.  120/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  the  city  of  London. 


39  EDWARD  III.  189 


1366.  Membrane  \^d — cont. 

Charter  of  John  do  Rornosy,  fifiving  with  warranty  to  William  do 
Sandford  cleik,  his  heirs,  executors  or  assigns,  a  messuage  and  garden 
in  Mugwelstroto  in  tlio  parish  of  St.  Olavo  London.  Witnesses : 
John  Osekyn,  John  de  lUitterwyke,  William  Baldewyne,  John 
Baldewyne,  Ri(!liard  Broke.     J)ated  London,  14  July  38  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  July  this  year. 

July  12.  To  Thomas  de  Lodelowe  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  assizw  in  Kent. 
Westaiinster.  Order  to  proceed  to  take  an  assize  of  novel  disseisin  before  them 
arraigned  by  John  William  citizen  and  spicer  of  London  and  Elizabetli 
his  \\ife  against  Richard  son  of  Benedict  de  Fulsham  late  citizen  of 
liOndon  and  Thomas  de  Thorneton  '  pavylonner  '  concerning  tenements 
in  Little  Chatham  and  Great  Delse  by  Rochester  so  far  as  regards 
those  not  in  the  king's  hand  and  not  those  taken  into  his  hand,  doing 
justice  to  the  parties,  the  king's  former  command  notwithstanding ; 
as  the  said  plaintiffs  put  in  view  60  acres  of  land  in  Little  Chatham, 
and  upon  the  certificate  of  John  de  Tye  escheator  in  that  county 
that  he  took  into  the  king's  hand  60  acres  of  land  in  the  said  town 
which  were  of  the  said  Benedict  for  that  he  found  by  inquisition, 
by  him  taken  of  his  office,  that  the  said  Benedict  at  his  death  held  them 
in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  in  chief  as  of  Ledes  castle  by  the  service  of  the 
fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee,  the  king  commanded  the  said  justices, 
if  assured  that  the  premises  put  in  view  are  the  lands  so  seized  by  the 
escheator  into  the  king's  hand,  or  any  part  thereof,  not  to  proceed  to 
take  the  said  assize  ;  and  now  on  behalf  of  the  said  John  and  Elizabeth 
it  is  shewn  the  king  that  the  justices  purpose  not  to  proceed  to  take 
the  said  assize  concerning  other  lands  which  are  not  in  the  king's  hand, 
though  they  are  suing  for  other  lands  as  well  as  for  those  which  are 
in  the  king's  hand.  By  C. 


Membrane  \M. 

Indenture  made  at  London  between  Jotm  de  Romesye  and  William 
de  Sandford  clerk,  being  a  defeasance  of  the  above  recognisance  upon 
condition  that  the  said  William,  his  heirs,  executors  or  assigns,  shall 
not  be  impleaded  by  the  heirs  of  the  said  John,  by  Amice  his  w^ife 
if  she  survive  him,  or  by  the  executors  of  Margery  de  Romesye 
who  was  his  mother  or  of  Thomas  his  brother,  or  their  executors, 
or  by  any  other  by  virtue  of  any  demise  made  by  the  said 
Margery  or  Thomas  of  a  messuage  and  garden  in  Mugwelstrete 
London  in  the  parish  of  Seynt  Olave  now  held  by  the  said  William 
of  the  said  John's  gift,  so  tliat  they  lose  the  premises  or  any  part 
thereof  ;  that  no  execution  shall  be  made  against  them  by  virtue 
of  any  statute  merchant  [or]  recognisance  made  in  a  court  of  record 
by  the  said  John,  his  motlier  or  brother,  without  their  assent  and 
contrivance;  that  the  premises  or  any  part  thereof  shall  not  be  charged 
by  any  rent  charge  made  by  the  said  John,  Margery,  Thomas,  or  his 
or  her  executors  ;  or  in  case  the  said  William,  his  heirs  or  executors 
or  the  assigns  of  any  of  them  shall  plead  in  chief  without  the  assent 
of  the  said  John  or  his  heirs  to  any  writ  touching  the  premises  or  part 
thereof,  such  pleadings  to  be  made  at  the  costs  of  the  said  William  etc. 
Dated  London,  Tuesday  before  St.  Margarot  39  Edward  III.    French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,   16  July. 


190 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1365. 

July  14. 

East- 
hampstead. 


July  17. 

Strat  field 
Mortimer. 


Membrane  I8d — cont. 

Richard  des  Armes  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Augustine 
Bristol,  to  take  of  that  house  such  maintenance  for  life  as  William 
Alfryd  deceased  had  at  the  late  king's  request.      By  p.s.  [26691.] 

Charter- of  William  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Midelton  of  Willesden 
CO.  Middlesex,  giving  with  warranty  to  Thomas  de  Frowyk,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  all  his  lands,  rents  and  services,  with  two  cottages  and  the 
curtilages  adjoining  with  hedges  and  ditches  in  Nesedon  in  the  parish 
of  Willesdon,  sometime  of  Richard  de  Midelton  son  of  John  de  Midelton 
the  elder.  Witnesses  :  John  Barneville,  John  de  Eston,  Richard  de 
Eston,  Thomas  Greyby,  Ralph  Robert,  Thomas  Raulyn.  Dated 
Willesdon,  Whitsunday  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Bishops 
Hatfeld  co.  Hertford,  21  July. 

Indenture  made  between  William  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Midelton 
of  Willesdon  co.  Middlesex  and  Thomas  de  Erowyk,  whereby  the  said 
Thomas  grants  that,  whereas  he  has  paid  for  the  said  WiUiam  to  Thomas 
Fraunceys  100  marks  wherein  the  said  William  was  bound  by  a  statute 
merchant  of  200  marks,  the  said  William  and  his  heirs  may  enter  again 
and  hold  in  their  former  estate  the  lands  in  the  said  county  which  the 
said  Thomas  Frowyk  has  purchased  of  him  if  he  or  his  heirs  shall 
after  ten  years  pay  or  cause  to  be  paid  to  the  said  Thomas  Frowyk 
or  his  executors  the  said  sum,  and  shall  meantime  find  security,  such 
as  Thomas  Frowyk,  his  heirs  or  executors  or  their  counsel  will  appoint, 
not  to  demise  nor  alien  the  same  in  fee,  for  life  or  a  term  of  years  ; 
and  further  whereas  the  said  William  is  bound  to  the  said  Thomas 
Frowyk  in  40L  by  a  statute  merchant,  and  by  another  to  the  said 
Thomas  Fraunceys  in  200  marks  as  aforesaid,  the  said  William  grants 
that  if  the  said  Thomas  de  Frowyk,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  be  diminished 
(entagles)  or  impleaded  concerning  the  premises  by  reason  of  any 
deed,  contract  or  annuity  by  him  made,  the  said  statutes  shall  remain 
in  force,  and  also  that  whereas  he  has  a  windmill  in  ruins  in  the  parish 
of  Willesdon,  Thomas  de  Frowyk  may  take  timber  and  all  that  thereto 
pertains  and  do  his  will  therewith  without  impeachment  of  the  said 
William  in  time  to  come.  Witnesses  [as  the  last).  Dated  Willesdon, 
Monday  after  Wliitsunday  39  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  bv  the  parties  at  Bishops  Hatfeld, 
21  July. 

Writing  of  William  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Midelton  of  Willesdon 
CO.  Middlesex,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Thomas  de  Frowyk, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  lands,  rents,  services,  hays,  woods  etc. 
which  the  said  Thomas  has  of  his  grant  and  demise  in  the  said  county. 
Witnesses  {as  above).  Dated  Willesdon,  Sunday  after  Easter 
39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Bishops  Hatfeld,  21  July. 

To  the  master  and  brethren  of  the  Maison  Dieu  Dovorre.  Request 
to  admit  to  their  house  John  Parker,  yeoman  of  Isabel  the  king's 
daughter,  and  to  cause  maintenance  to  be  thereof  ministered  to  him 
such  as  John  Monjm  deceased  had  at  the  king's  command,  making 
him  letters  patent  under  their  common  seal  with  mention  of  all  that 
he  shall  so  take,  for  which  the  king  will  be  bound    to    them,    and 


39    EDWARD    III. 


191 


1365. 


Membrane  \8d — cont. 


cortifyinc;  the  kino;  by  tlio  boaror  wliat  thoy  tliink  fit  to  do  at  this 
request  ;  as  for  his  good  service  to  the  said  Isabel  the  king  would 
make  provision  for  maintenance  of  the  said  John.  By  p.s.  [26695.] 

July  26.  To  William  Banastrc.     Older  not  to  meddle  in  taking  of  assizes, 

Windsor,  juries  and  certificates  arraigned  before  whatsoever  justices  in  Salop, 
Staffordshire,  Worcestershire,  Gloucestershire  and  Herefordshire,  by 
virtue  of  the  king's  late  commission  appointing  him  together 
with  William  de  Fyncheden  and  Roger  dc  Kirketon  justices  so  to 
do  ;  as  for  particular  causes  the  king  has  thought  fit  to  remove  the 
said  William  Banastre.  By  K. 

Sept.  1.         John  Clerevaux  of  Croft  and  Thomas  de  Sancto  Quintino  to  the 
Westminster,  abbot  of  St.  Mary  York.     Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  200  marks 
payable  by  instalments  ;    to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their 
lands  and  chattels  in   Yorkshire, 

Ilemorandiim  that  this  recognisance  was  taken  by  Thomas  de 
Ingelby  by  writ  of  dedimus  potestatem,  which  is  on  the  files  for  this 
year. 

Membrane  nd. 

Charter  of  Thomas  Cheyne,  giving  to  Thomas  Kaignes  clerk,  Richard 
de  Merton  knight,  William  de  Bugh'brigge  clerk  and  Matthew  de 
Stawell,  and  to  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  Richard,  all  his  lands 
at  la  Wode  in  the  parish  of  Chepyngtoriton,  and  the  fifth  part  of  the 
manor  of  Chepyngtoriton  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons  of  churches, 
mills,  meadoW'S,  pastures,  woods,  moors,  rents,  services,  escheats, 
wards,  marriages,  fairs,  markets,  liberties  etc.  to  the  same  belonging. 
Witnesses  :  Henry  Percehay,  John  Cary,  William  Cary,  John  Hydon, 
John  Wodebury,  Richard  Bere.  Dated  Wednesday  the  eve  of  St. 
Philip  and  St.' James  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  16  October. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Cheyne,  being  a  letter  of  attorney  to  John 
Hydon,  William  Kelly  and  John  Ic  Eir  to  give  Thomas  Kaignes  clerk, 
Richard  de  Merton  knight,  William  de  Bugh'brigge  clerk  and 
Matthew  de  Staw^elle  seisin  of  lands  at  la  Wode  and  the  fifth  part  of  the 
manor  of  Chepyngtoryton  with  knights'  fees  etc.,  according  to  the 
foregoing  charter.     Dated  {as  the  last.) 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  16  October. 

Writing  of  Ralph  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  Cook,  giving  w  ith  warranty 
to  Hugh  de  Segrave,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  rent  of  13s.  M.,  4  quarters 
2  bushels  of  wheat  and  4  quarters  2  bushels  of  barley  to  him  payable 
by  Edward  Fretheby,  Joan  his  wife  and  Alice  their  daughter,  his  tenants 
for  their  lives  by  demise  of  the  said  Ralph,  of  all  the  lands  sometime  of 
the  said  Thomas  his  father  in  Northmortone,  two  cottages  in  the  said 
town  held  for  life  by  William  W^ebbe  and  Joan  his  wife  by  like 
demise  excepted,  and  the  reversion  of  the  premises  ;  also  the  rent  of 
4.S.   arising   of   the    said   two    cottages,    and    the   reversion   thereof. 

Jolyf,  William  Young,  Walter    Young,   Thomas 
Dorkecestre,     Monday     after     St.     Fredeswyde 


Witnesses  :     Roger 
Catewy.        Dated 
39  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of 


acknowledgment,   22   October. 


192 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  V,d — cont. 

Writing  of  Ralph  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  Cook  of  Dorkecestre, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Hugh  de  Segrave,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  all  lands  in  the  towns  of  Dorkecestre,  Clifton,  Bredecote 
and  Chesulhampton  which  descended  to  him  by  inheritance  after  his 
said  father's  death.  Dated  Dorkecestre,  Saturday  after  St.  Fredeswide 
39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   22  October. 

Membrane  \M. 

Charter  of  Richard  de  Bannebury  rector  of  Wenyngton  and  Thomas 
Branketre  rector  of  St.  Alban  in  Wcdestrete,  giving  with  warranty  to 
William  de  Kuynenton  and  Margery  his  wife,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
the  messuage  with  houses  thereupon  built,  the  quay  adjoining  etc. 
which  they  lately  had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  the  said  William 
and  Margery  in  the  parish  of  St.  Benet  atte  Wodewharf  in  the  ward 
of  Baynardescastel  London,  situate  between  a  tenement  of  the  prior 
of  St.  Bartholomew  Smethefeld  on  the  west,  a  tenement  of  the  said 
William  and  Margery  on  the  east,  the  high  way  called  Thamisestrete 
on  the  north  to  the  river  Thamise  on  the  south  ;  Adam  de  Bury  being 
then  mayor  of  the  city  of  London,  Simon  de  Mordon  and  John  de 
Mitf ord  sheriffs,  John  Tornegold  alderman  of  the  ward.  Wi  tnesses : 
William  Strokelady,  John  Curteys,  William  Stote,  John  de  Redyng, 
John  de  Somcrton.     Dated  London,  9  April  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  London, 
3  October. 

Oct.  14.         Robert   Bakester   of   Hedon   to   Alan   Palmer.     Recognisance   for 
Westminster.  16L,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Yorkshire. 

Writing  of  William  bishop  of  Winchester,  granting  that  the  manor  of 
Tenhyde  co.  Wiltes,  now  held  of  him  for  life  by  Maud  \^  ho  was  wife  of 
Robert  Seleman  knight  with  reversion  to  the  said  bishop  and  his  heirs, 
shall  remain  to  the  rector  and  brethren  of  the  house  of  Edyndon  and 
to  their  successors,  according  to  the  licences  of  the  king  and  other  the 
chief  lords,  with  warranty  of  the  said  manor.  Dated  his  manor  of 
Southwerk,  Sunday  after  St.  Luke  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   27   October. 

Oct.  27.         John     de     Shordyche*   of     Hakeneye     to     William     de     Morton. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  50  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Middlesex. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Rokeby  knight,  confirming  the  estate  of 
Richard  le  Scrope  knight  in  the  manor  of  Brigenhale,  with  a  quitclaim 
thereof  to  the  said  Richard,  his  heirs  and  assigns.  Witnesses  :  John 
Moubray,  Thomas  de  Musgrave,  Thomas  de  Ingelby,  Brian  de  Stapilton 
knights.  Dated  London,  Monday  the  eve  of  St.  Simon  and  St.  Jude 
39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27  October. 

Oct.  28.         Gerard  de  Usflet  to  Elizabeth  Latymer  and  John  de  Repynghale. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  20Z.  payable  by  instalments ;  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Yorkshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  John. 


39    EDWARD    III. 


193 


1365. 


Oct.  26. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  16. 

Westminster. 


Membrane    16d — cont. 

Writing  of  William  do  Notton,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Williatn  do  Fynchoden,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  lands,  rents  and 
services  which  he  has  of  the  gift  of  the  said  William  de  Notton  in 
Wolvelay  and  Notton  co.  York.  Dated  Westminster,  Sunday  before 
St.  Simon  and  St.  Jude  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  October. 

Nicholas  de  Tamworth  knight,  who  is  sailing  on  the  king's  service 
to  parts  over  sea,  appoints  John  de  Thamworth  clerk  his  attorney 
for  one  year  to  receive  his  rents  and  debts,  make  acquittances,  cancel 
recognisances  etc. 

Membrane  15d. 

Walter  Walssh  to  Queen  Philippa.  Recognisance  for  40Z.,  to  be 
levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  the  county  of 
Suthampton. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  Richard  de  Eavensere  treasurer 
of  the  said  queen. 


Oct.  16. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  18. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  24. 
Westminster. 


Oct.   24. 
Westminster. 


Lawrence  de  Lymford  to  William  de  Sancto  Omero. 
for  40/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Oxfordshire. 
Cancelled  on  'payment. 


Recognisance 


Philip  Mongomory  to  Peter  prior  of  St.  Saviour  Bermondeseye. 
Recognisance  for  40?.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Somerset. 

W^illiam  Rounfare  of  Skirlagh  to  Thomas  de  Reverie  and  Thomas  de 
Wilton  of  Yorkshire.  Recognisance  for  200/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in 
Yorkshire. 

Thomas  de  Aldoun  knight  to  Adam  de  Karlill  citizen  and  draper  of 
London.     Recognisance  for  50/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Kent. 

Charter  of  Thomas  de  Kyngeston  knight,  being  a  grant  with  warranty 
to  Peter  Pipard,  his  heirs  and  assigns  for  ever,  of  the  manor  of  Little 
Sutton  with  all  lands,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  rents  and  services 
etc.  in  Great  Sutton,  Nywenham  andCrokerton,  and  14  acres  of  meadow 
in  Putmede  by  Busshepestrowe,  to  him  leased  for  life  by  the  said 
Thomas  and  to  his  assigns,  and  to  his  executors  or  assigns  for  two 
years  after  his  death,  at  a  yearly  rent  of  15  quarters  of  wheat.  8 
quarters  of  dredge  and  7  quarters  of  oats  for  all  services,  together 
with  the  rents  and  services  of  the  free  tenants  of  the  said  manor 
which  were  excepted  in  the  first  demise  and  the  reversion  of  the 
tenements  of  tenants  for  life  of  the  same.  Witnesses :  LawTence  de 
Sancto  Martino,  Walter  atte  Berghe,  Thomas  Hungerford,  Michael 
Skillyng,  William  Worfton,  Nicholas  Bonham,  Henry  Estlynton. 
Dated  Little  Sutton,  Monday  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas 
39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  26  October. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  charter,  upon  condition 
that  Peter  Pipard  or  his  assigns  during  his  life,  and  his  executors  or  assigns 
for  two  years  after,  shall  peaceably  hold  the  manor  of  Litel  Sutton 
with  lands,  meadows,  pastures,  rents,  services  and  reversions  in  Michel 

E  13 


194  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  15d — cont. 

Sutton,  Nywenham,  Crokerton  and  Putmede  by  Busshepestrowe 
which  he  has  of  the  lease  and  grant  of  Sir  [Thomas]  de  Kyngeston, 
the  reversion  of  a  rent  therein  held  for  life  by  Sir  John  de  Kyngeston 
son  of  the  said  Thomas  with  reversion  to  Sir  Thomas  and  his  heirs 
excepted,  so  that  they  be  not  put  out  nor  impleaded  by  the  said 
Sir  Thomas,  Maud  his  wife  or  their  heirs  nor  by  any  other  by  true  action, 
charge,  recognisance,  statute  merchant  or  other  charge  earlier  than 
this  date  made  by  Sir  Thomas  or  his  ancestors,  nor  by  debt,  charge 
or  demand  towards  the  king  or  any  other,  or  else  that  Sir  Thomas  shall 
cause  John  his  son  and  heir  to  grant  and  confirm  to  the  said  Peter,  his 
executors  or  assigns,  for  the  term  aforesaid  the  said  manor  lands  etc., 
the  said  reversion  excepted.  Dated  Litel  Sutton,  Tuesday  after  the 
quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  39  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  26  October. 

Membrane  1M. 

Writing  of  Thomas  son  of  Roger  de  Holtale,  being  a  quitclaim  to 
Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Coupland  and  to  her  heirs  of  all  lands, 
rents  and  services  of  free  men  and  neifs  or  of  tenants  at  will  sometime 
of  her  said  husband  as  well  in  Northumberland  as  in  the  bishopric 
of  Durham,  the  lands,  rents  and  services  which  were  his  in  the  towns 
of  Shotton  and  Holtale  in  the  said  county  excepted.  Dated  London, 
Thursday  before  All  Saints  39  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Thomas  son  of  Roger  de  Holtale,  being  a  quitclaim  to 
Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Coupland  and  to  her  heirs  of  the  lands, 
rents  and  services,  neifs  and  all  that  goes  with  them  now  held  by  the 
said  Joan  in  the  counties  of  Berewyk  and  Rokesburgh.  Witnesses  : 
Robert  de  Colville,  James  le  Lorayn,  Robert  de  Wodeford,  John 
Kerre,  James  Watson.  Dated  Rokesburgh,  Thursday  after  All  Saints 
39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings,  20 
November. 

Writing  of  Thomas  son  of  Roger  de  Holtale,  being  a  release  to  Joan 
who  was  wife  of  John  de  Coupland  and  her  heirs  of  the  warranty  of 
messuages,  lands,  rents,  services  etc.  in  the  town  of  Holtale  co. 
Northumberland  whereto  she  and  her  heirs  are  bound  by  divers  charters 
and  deeds  of  feoffment  and  release  in  regard  to  all  the  lands  therein 
contained  which  were  of  Sir  William  Heroun  in  Holtale,  saving  to  the 
said  Thomas,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  all  advantages  of  such  warranty 
as  against  the  said  Joan  and  her  heirs.  Dated  London,  Wednesday 
after  St.  Nicholas  39  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  10  December. 

Charter  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Coupland  in  her  widowhood, 
giving  with  warranty  to  Thomas  son  of  Roger  de  Holtale,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  all  her  messuages,  lands,  rents,  woods,  hays,  waters,  ponds, 
rivers,  fish  ponds,  water  mills,  windmills,  ways,  paths,  bondages, 
homages,  wards,  reliefs,  marriages,  escheats,  turbaries,  moors 
marshes,  wastes,  suits,  reversions,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  services 
of  free  men  and  neifs  etc.  in  the  town  of  Schotton  co.  Northumberland 
whereof  her  said  husband  was  seised.     Witnesses  :    Sir  Alan  de  Heeton 


rJO    EDWARD    III. 


195 


1365. 


Membrane  IM — cont. 


knight,  Sir  Homy  do  Havcrynglon  kniglit,  Thomas  Muscliatuio,  Jolin  de 
Dichaudo,  John  do  Houbuiuo,  John  do  Ahunvyk,  Ii(>my  do  Burton 
clerk.     Dated  Schotton,  Saturday  tlic  foast  of  All  Saints  39  lOdward  III. 

Charter  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Coupland  in  her  widowhood, 
giving  with  warranty  to  Thomas  son  of  Roger  do  Holtale,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  all  her  messuages,  lands  etc.  {as  above)  in  the  town  of 
Holtale  CO.  Northumberland  whereof  her  said  husband  was  seised. 
Witnesses  :  Sir  Alan  de  Heeton  knight,  Tliomas  Muschance,  Roger 
son  of  Adam  de  Brankeston,  Walter  son  of  Adam  de  Holtale,  Adam 
Brouno,  Robert  de  Plaxton,  Henry  de  Burton  clerk.  Dated  Holtale, 
Saturday  the  feast  of  all  Saints  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charters, 
20  November. 

Indenture  made  between  Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Coupland 
and  Thomas  son  of  Roger  de  Holtale,  being  a  release  to  the  said  Thomas 
and  his  heirs  of  a  warranty  wherein  they  were  bound  to  the  said  Joan 
and  to  lier  heirs  by  a  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  of  certain  manors, 
moieties  of  manors  and  lands  therein  comprised,  saving  the  advantage 
thereof  as  against  the  said  Thomas  and  his  heirs.  Dated  London,  the 
morrow  of  St.  Martin  39  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  20  November. 

Nov.  10.        John  de  Asshe  to  Robert  de  Muskham  clerk.     Recognisance  for 
Westminster.  10  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Essex. 

Cancelled  on  'payment. 


Membrane  IZd. 

Writing  of  John  Beneyt,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John 
James  of  Walyngford  and  his  heirs  of  the  tenements  in  the  parish  of 
Mary  the  less  Walyngford,  situate  betw^een  the  churchyard  of  Mary 
the  less  to  the  north  and  a  tenement  sometime  of  John  Andrew  towards 
the  south,  the  heads  abutting  upon  the  highway  from  Fysshameles 
to  Southgate  tow^ards  the  west  and  a  lane  called  la  Wodestrete  towards 
the  east.  Witnesses  :  Nicholas  Payable  then  mayor  of  the  borough 
of  Walyngford,  Thomas  Restwold,  Walter  Yonge,  Henry  Deem, 
Nicholas  Tannere,  Richard  atte  Felde,  Henry  Redyng,  Robert  Boty, 
Roger  Milbourne.     Dated  Walyngford,  2  October  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  29  October. 

Oct,  29.         Thomas  Waryn  of  Somerset  to  Thomas  Cheyne  the  king's  esquire 
Westminster,  {scutifero)   and  John  Philipot  citizen  of  London.     Recognisance  for 
2001.  payable  by  instalments  ;    to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Somerset. 

Writing  of  John  Laundels,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to 
John  de  Bleobury  clerk,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Fernham 
CO.  Berks.  Witnesses :  Gilbert  de  Shotesbroke,  Roger  Jolyf ,  Thomas 
de  Themeso,  John  Waldene,  John  de  Eiton.  Dated  Shalyngford, 
9  August  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   31   October. 


196  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1365.  Memhrane  13(Z — cont. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Aspale  parson  of  Warneford,  being  an 
acquittance  to  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Aspale  knight  for 
20/.  received  by  the  hands  of  Adam  parson  of  Cokefeld  in  full  payment 
of  her  bond  in  80/.  Dated  Westminster,  Monday  the  feast  of 
Michaelmas  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  November. 

Charter  of  Thomas  de  Aldoun  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to 
Sir  Bartholomew  Burgherssh  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  his  manor 
of  Burgherssh  with  all  lands,  rents,  services  etc.  thereto  belonging. 
Witnesses  :  William  Hichyngham,  John  Waleys,  John  Seint  Cler 
knights,  Richard  Hurst,  John  de  Asshebournham,  Roger  de 
Asshebournham.     Dated  Henden  co.  Kent,  3  November  39  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Aldoun  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  Sir  Bartholomew  Burgherssh  kiiight,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  the  manor  of  Burgherssh  with  all  lands  etc.  thereto  belonging. 
Witnesses  [as  the  last).  Dated  Henden  co.  Kent,  5  November 
39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  6  November. 

Indenture  of  accord  between  Sir  Bartholomew  de  Burghersh  and 
Sir  Walter  de  Pavely  of  the  one  part  and  Sir  Thomas  Daldoun  of  the 
other  part  touching  certain  debates  and  pleas  between  them  moved, 
that  the  said  Sir  Thomas,  by  fine  levied  by  himself  and  his  wife  and 
otherwise  as  counsel  shall  appoint,  shall  assure  to  Sir  Bartholomew 
the  manor  of  Burghersh  and  all  members  and  parcels  thereto 
pertaining  discharged  of  all  charges  save  the  lordship  of  the  fee  ; 
that  the  said  Sir  Walter  has  released  a  yearly  rent  of  40/.  which 
Sir  Thom-as  granted  to  him  and  to  his  heirs  for  release  of  certain  manors 
claimed  by  Sir  Walter  as  his  heritage  in  tail ;  that  he  shall  also  release 
to  Sir  Thomas  the  reversion  of  the  lands  of  his  heritage  on  his  father's 
side,  and  not  on  his  mother's  side,  which  ought  to  come  to  him  in  case 
Sir  Thomas  should  die  without  issue  male  of  his  body,  for  which  release 
Sir  Thomas  shall  enfeoff  Sir  Walter  and  his  heirs  for  ever  of  the  manor 
of  Stoutyng,  the  appurtenances,  members  and  parcels  thereof,  with 
10/.  issuing  of  parcel  of  the  manor  of  Boughton  and  the  tenants 
thereof  (who  shall  be  specified  by  name),  of  that  part  (if  any)  which 
is  not  entailed  ;  that  so  soon  as  Sir  Walter  shall  be  by  Sir  Thomas 
enfeoffed  of  50/.  of  land  and  rent  in  Kent  in  a  manor  of  so  much  clear 
value  by  extent,  without  impeachment  of  entail  or  other  action  or  charge, 
so  that  Sir  Walter  shall  new  build  or  repair  the  houses  thereof  and 
Sir  Thomas  shall  pay  his  costs  in  so  doing.  Sir  Walter  shall  again 
enfeoff  Sir  Thomas  of  the  manor  of  Stoutyng  and  the  rent  aforesaid 
as  fully  as  he  had  the  same  by  feoffment  of  Sir  Thomas  ;  and  that  for 
performance  of  this  bargain  Sir  Walter  shall  give  Sir  Thomas  100  marks, 
which  sum  is  fully  paid.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  6  November. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Maundeville  knight,  being  a  release  to  Robert 
de  Marny  knight  of  all  executions  and  of  all  personal  actions,  plaints 
and  demands  to  date,  an  action  for  100  marks  upon  his  bond  excepted. 
Dated  London,   19  November  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   19  November. 


39    EDWARD    III.  197 


1366.  Memuuane  I'ld. 

Indenture  made  between  Thomas  de  Maundevillc  knight  and 
Robert  de  Marny  knight,  being  a  demise  and  grant  to  the  said  Robert, 
his  lieirs  and  assigns,  of  the  hinds,  refits  and  services  lield  jointly  and 
severally  by  Bartholomew  Deumars  and  Robert  Pycot  and  lately  held 
by  John  Fabol  in  Horndon,  except  whatsoever  the  said  Robert  [de 
Marny]  had  in  that  town  of  the  grant  or  feoffment  of  Mary  who  was 
wife  of  Thomas  Fabel,  with  warranty  thereof  quit  of  all  actions  and 
charges  by  any  persons  whatsoever  from  1  March  27  Edward  III 
to  this  date,  so  that  the  grantor  nor  his  heirs  be  not  bound  by  virtue 
hereof  to  warrant,  acquit  or  discharge  the  premises  of  actions  or 
charges  for  any  cause  arising  before  1  March  aforesaid.  Witnesses  : 
William  de  Wauton,  Hugh  de  Badewe  knights,  Hugh  Malgraf,  Thomas 
Belhous.  Robert  fitz  William,  John  Bolyngton,  John  de  Berden.  Dated 
Horndon,  9  April  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  18  November. 

Writing  of  Robert  Pykot  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  being 
a  quitclaim  to  Robert  de  Marny  knight  of  the  manor  of  Ardernhalle 
in  Horndon  and  of  all  lands,  rents  and  services  etc.  sometime  of  Thomas 
Fabel  w  hich  the  said  Robert  de  Marny  has  in  the  town  of  Horndon. 
Dated  London,  16  November  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  18  November. 

Writing  of  John  Fabel,  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  Fabel,  being  a  grant 
and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Robert  de  Marny  knight,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Ardernhalle  in  Horndon  and  all  other 
lands,  rents  and  services  etc.  sometime  of  the  said  Thomas  his  father 
which  the  said  Robert  has  in  the  town  of  Horndon,  and  in  the  towns 
of  Great  Totliam,  Little  Totham,  Hebregge,  Wykham  and  Goldhangre 
CO.  Essex  ;  and  a  general  release  of  all  executions,  and  of  all  personal 
actions,  plaints  and  demands.  Dated  London,  17  November 
39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   18  November. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Marny  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Thomas  de 
Maundeville  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  and  advowson 
of  Falkebourne,  all  lands,  woods,  meadows,  reversions,  rents  and 
services,  villeins,  villenages  etc.  sometime  of  Thomas  Fabel  in  the 
towns  of  Falkebourne,  Witham,  Fairstede,  Hatfeld  Peverell,  Wodeham 
Wauter,  Terlyng,  Retyngdon,  Wodeham  Mortymer  and  Ultyng,  and 
all  lands,  woods  etc.  late  of  John  Troye  and  after  of  Thomas  Fabel 
in  the  toA^n  of  Fairstede,  certain  lands  called  Cierkestenement  in 
Hatfeld  aforesaid  late  of  William  Fabel  excepted.  Witnesses:  Sir 
John  de  Sutton  the  elder,  John  Gernoun,  John  de  Sutton  the 
younger,  Richard  de  Sutton,  Gilbert  de  Stanford  knights.  Dated 
Horndon,  9  April  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  18  November. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Maundeville  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  to 
Robert  de  Marny  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  lands,  rents  and 
services  etc.  held  jointly  and  severally  by  Bartholomew  Deumars 
and  Robert  Pykot  and  lately  held  by  John  Fabel  in  Horndon,  except 
whatsoever  the  said  Robert  de  Marny  had  in  that  town  of  the 
feoffment  of  Mary  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  Fabel,  which  lands  the  said 


198  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


X365.  Membrane  I2d — cont. 

Sir  Thomas  lately  demised  and  granted  by  writing  indented  to  the  said 
Robert  de  Marny,  and  wa,rranty  of  the  premises  quit  and  discharged 
of  all  actions  and  charges  by  any  persons  whatsoever  from  1  March 
27  Edward  III  to  9  April  last,  except  certain  actions  by  the  said 
Robert  de  Marny  begun,  and  the  issues,  fines  and  amercements  affecting 
the  said  Bartholomew,  so  that  the  said  Thomas  nor  his  heirs  be  not 
hereby  bound  to  warrant,  acquit  or  discharge  the  premises  of  actions 
or  charges  arising  before  1  March  aforesaid  ;  and  quitclaim  of  all 
lands,  rents  and  services  etc.  which  the  said  Robert  de  Marny  lately 
had  of  the  feoffment  of  the  said  Mary  in  the  town  of  Horndon  with 
like  warrant3^  Dated  London,  17  November  39  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   18  November. 

Nov.  20.        John  abbot  of  Coumbe,  for  himself  and  the  convent,  to  Richard  de 
Westminster.  Stoke  of  Coventre.     Recognisance  for  80  marks  payable  by  instalments  , 
to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  and 
ecclesiastical  goods  in  Warwickshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  Anthony  de  Lucy,  being  a  bond  to  Alice  Perers  of  London 
in  1,000  marks  payable  at  London  in  the  lodging  of  the  bishop  of 
Hereford  near  Aldefisshestrete  at  Easter  next.  Dated  London, 
18  November  39  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  21  November. 

Membrane  Ud. 

Charter  of  Thomas  de  Aldoun  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to 
Sir  Walter  Pavely  of  Hulprynton  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  his 
manor  of  Stoutyng  with  the  hundred,  park,  knights'  fees,  advowsons  etc. 
thereto  belonging,  and  all  his  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  town  of 
Stanford.  Witnesses  :  John  Kyriel,  Stephen  de  Valence,  John 
BrokliuU  knights,  William  Pympe,  William  Apoldrefeld.  Dated 
Henden,  1  November  39  Edward  III; 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Aldoun  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  Sir  Walter  Pavely  of  Hulprynton  knight,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Stoutyng  and  lands,  rents  and  services  in 
Stanford  {as  above).  Witnesses  {as  above).  Dated  Henden,  3 
November  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  6  November. 

Indenture  made  at  Hendene  5  November  39  Edward  III,  between 
Sir  Bartholomew  de  Burgherssh  knight  and  Sir  Thomas  de  Aldoun 
knight,  being  the  defeasance  of  a  statute  mercliant  of  2,000  marks, 
upon  condition  that  the  said  Sir  Thomas  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  shall 
come  in  the  Common  Bench  at  Westminster  and  by  fine  there  levied 
shall  acknowledge  the  manor  of  Burgherssh  to  be  the  right  of  the  said 
Sir  Bartholomew  and  of  his  heirs,  making  a  quitclaim  thereof  for 
themselves  and  the  heirs  of  the  said  Elizabeth,  and  binding  them 
and  her  heirs  to  warranty,  and  shall  acknowledge  the  manor  of 
Stoutyng  with  the  hundred,  fees  and  advowsons,  the  lands,  rents  and 
services  in  Stanford  to  the  same  pertaining,  and  101.  of  rent  issuing 
from  the  lands  of  tenants  held  for  life  or  in  fee  in  the  manor  of  Boutton 


39  EDWARD  I  IF. 


199 


13C5. 


Membrane  lUl — cont. 


or  in  parcel  thereof  (sucli  parcel  to  be  at  the  choice  of  Sir  Walter  de 
Pavely)  to  be  the  right  of  the  said  Sir  Walter  and  his  heirs,  making  to 
them  a  quitclaim  theieof,  and  binding  themselves  and  the  heirs  of  the 
said  Elizabeth  to  A\arranty,  and  to  dicharge  the  said  manors  of  all 
charges  as  of  recognisances,  statutes  merchant,  annuities,  debts  to 
the  king  etc.  by  the  said  Thomas  made  since  he  has  been  tenant  of 
the  same,  and  that  before  the  quinzainc  of  Hilary  next  he  shall 
cause  the  said  P]lizabeth  his  wife  to  be  jointly  enfeoffed  of  40/.  of  land 
or  rent  for  her  life.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,   6  November. 

Nov.  6.  John  de  Cherleton  of  Middlesex  to  Henry  de  Ingelby  and  Thomas 

Westminster,  de  Neuby  clerks.     Recognisance  for  80/.  payable  by  instalments;  to 

be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Middlesex. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  John  shall 

pay  201.  at  All  Saints  next  and  20/.  at  the  Purification  following. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Thomas. 

Writing  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Coupland  in  her  widowhood, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Thomas  son  of  Roger  de  Holtale, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  messuages,  lands,  rents  and  services  of  free 
men  and  neif s  which  the  said  Thomas  has  of  her  gift  and  feoffment 
or  otherwise  whatsoever  in  the  town  of  Holtale  co.  Northumberland, 
and  of  her  gift  and  feoffment  in  the  town  of  Schotton  in  the  same  county. 
Dated  Holtale,  Monday  after  St.  Nicholas  bishop  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  10  December. 

Indenture  made  between  Thomas  de  Holtale  and  Joan  who  was  wife 
of  John  de  Coupland,  being  a  release  to  the  said  Joan  and  her  heirs 
of  a  warranty  of  three  messuages,  72  acres  of  land  and  10  acres  of 
meadow  sometime  of  Sir  William  Heroun  in  the  town  of  Holtale, 
whereto  they  were  bound  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  as  to 
warranty  of  the  manors  of  Shotton  and  Holtale  in  the  said  fine 
comprised,  saving  always  to  the  said  Thomas,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
the  advantage  of  the  said  warranty  as  against  the  said  Joan  and  her 
heirs.  Dated  London,  the  morrow  of  St.  Martin  39  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  20  November. 

Membrane  lOd. 

Nov.  18.         Alan  son  of  Theobald  de  Twytham  to  Margaret  who  was  wife  of 
Westminster.  Thomas  de  Brokhull  knight.     Recognisance  for  100/.,   to  be  levied, 
in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Kent. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  Alan  son  of  Theobald  de  Twytham  of  Kent,  being  a  bond 
to  Margaret  Avho  was  wife  of  Thomas  de  Brokhull  knight  in  100/. 
payable  at  Christmas  next  at  Lillyngston  co.  Kent.  Dated 
Lumbarstrete  ward  London,  18  November  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandiim  of  acknowledgment,  18  November. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance  and  bond, 
upon  condition  that  Alan  son  of  Theobald  de  Twytham  of  Kent, 
his   heirs   or   executors,    shall  pay    to   Margaret  who    was    wife   of 


200  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  lOd — cont. 

Thomas  de  Brokhull  knight,  her  executors  or  assigns,  in  her  manor  of 
Lullyngston  co.  Kent  101.  within  the  quinzaine  of  Christmas  next,  lOl. 
within  the  quinzaine  of  Midsummer  following,  and  so  from  term  to 
term  and  year  to  year  until  lOOl.  be  fully  paid.  Dated  Lumbardstrete 
ward  London,  19  {sic)  November  39  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  18  November. 

Writing  of  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  de  Brokhull  knight, 
being  a  release  to  Alan  son  and  heir  of  Theobald  de  TAvytham  of  all 
actions  for  wardship,  marriage  and  forfeiture  of  marriage,  and  general 
release  of  all  other  actions  real  and  personal,  reciting  that  the  wardship 
of  the  body  and  lands  of  the  said  Alan  was  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason 
of  the  temporalities  of  the  archbishop  of  Caunterbire  in  his  hand, 
and  was  with  his  marriage  granted  by  the  king  to  Sir  Thomas  de 
Brokhell  her  husband,  and  came  to  her  hand  as  his  executrix.  Dated 
Godeneston,  Sunday  after  St.  Martin  39  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  18  November. 

Charter  of  John  de  Bourgcher  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to 
Sir  Rabert  de  Naillyngherst  clerk,  Clement  Spice,  John  de  Sudbury, 
Roger  Ketrich,  Richard  de  Naillyngherst  and  John  Bek  his  manor 
of  Little  Maldon  with  the  advowsons  of  Bilegh  abbey  and  the  hospital 
of  St.  Giles  Maldon,  all  '  le  kay  '  in  Maldon  and  '  le  crane,'  a  messuage 
by  '  le  kay  '  with  solar,  shops,  cellars  etc.  lying  between  ways  leading 
to  '  le  kay  '  on  either  side,  to  have  and  hold  during  the  life  of  the  said 
Sir  Robert,  and  to  his  executors  or  assigns  for  one  year  after, 
granting  that  during  his  life  they  shall  not  be  impeached  of  waste, 
with  reversion  to  the  grantor  after  the  term  aforesaid.  Witnesses  : 
John  Waryn,  William  de  Maldon,  Thomas  de  Maldon,  Henry  Algor, 
Walter  de  Wotton,  Thomas  Huglet.  Dated  Maldon,  23  February 
38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   18  November  this  year. 

Writing  of  Alice  Perreres  of  London,  being  the  defeasance  of  a  bond 
of  Anthony  de  Lucy  (above,  p.  198)  in  1,000  marks  payable  at  London 
in  the  lodging  of  the  bishop  of  Hereford  near  Aldefisstrete  at  Easter 
next,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Anthony  when  in  peaceful  possession 
of  the  manor  of  Roddeston  which  descends  to  him  after  the  death  of 
Sir  Thomas  de  Lucy  his  father,  the  king's  hand  being  removed,  within 
40  days  after  livery  to  him  made  shall  by  his  deed  make  an  estate 
thereof  for  life  to  the  said  Alice,  saving  the  reversion  to  the  said  Anthony 
and  his  heirs.     Dated  London,  19  November  39  Edward  III.    French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  21  November. 

Memorandum  that  on  20  May  40  Edward  III,  the  said  Alice  came  in 
chancery  and  acknowledged  that  all  conditions  in  this  writing  contained 
were  fulfilled,  craving  that  the  enrolment  thereof  be  cancelled ;  and  it  is 
cancelled  accordingly. 

Nov.  21.         David  Strabolgi  earl  of  Atholl  to  Richard    de    Ravenser    clerk. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  201.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  Lincolnshire. 

Memorandum  that  on  14  November  39  Edward  III  in  the  chancery 
at  Westminster  before  the  chancellor  appeared  Sir  Thomas  de  Osgotby, 
Sir  Thomas  de  Miton  and  Sir  John  de  Neuburgh  vicars  of  the  choir  of 


39    EDWARD    III.  201 


1305.  Membrane  lOd — cont. 

St.  Peter's  cluiich  York  in  a  cause  touching  contempts  by  them  com- 
^  mitted  against  the  king  and  Master  Jolin  de  Branketre  treasurer  of  the 

said  church,  being  then  present,  who  came  to  the  king's  service  at  his 
command  from  his  residence  not  completed,  for  wrongs,  hurt  and 
violence  by  the  said  vicars  and  either  of  them  done  to  the  said 
treasurer,  his  ministers  and  household,  as  contained  in  the  petition 
and  bill  of  the  said  treasurer  by  him  delivered  to  the  council  and  read 
before  the  said  vicars ;  and  after  long  debate  the  said  vicars  and  every 
of  them  submitted  themselves  to  the  said  treasurer's  grace  concerning 
all  and  singular  the  matters  therein  contained  in  case  they  should  in 
future  be  found  blameworthy  touching  the  same,  but  if  he  should  be 
too  hard  to  them  they  submitted  themselves  wholly  to  the  order  and 
\Aill  of  the  council,  promising  to  perform  \\hatsoever  the  said  treasurer 
and  the  council  sliould  order,  and  furthermore  found  sureties  for  their 
good  behaviour  towards  the  said  treasurer,  his  household  and  ministers, 
namely  Master  John  de  Branketre,  David  de  Wollore  and  Henry  de 
Barton  canons  of  the  said  church,  Richard  de  Ravenser  provost  of 
St.  John  Beverley  and  Master  John  de  Waltham  sacrist  of  the  chapel 
of  St.  Mary  and  the  Angels  in  the  church  of  York,  who  mainperned 
for  the  said  vicars. 

Nov.  27.         Thomas  Large  the  elder,  Richard  Coker  and  John  Bey vyn  to  John  de 
Westminster.  Bisshopestou  clerk.     Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  40'.,  to  be 
levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Somerset. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Membrane  9d. 

Nov.  19.         Thomas  de  Maundevylle  knight  and  John  son  and  heir  of  Thomas 
Westminster.  Fabel  to  Robert  de  Marny  knight.     Recognisance  for  200Z.,   to  be 
levied  etc.  in  Essex.  * 

Thomas  de  Maundevylle  knight  and  John  son  and  heir  of  Thomas 
Fabel  to  Robert  de  Marny  knight.  Recognisance  for  100^.,  to  be  levied 
etc.  in  Essex. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Robert  de  Marny  of  the  one  part  and 
Sir  Thomas  de  Maundeville  and  John  Fabel  son  and  heir  of  Thomas 
Fabel  of  the  other  part,  '\\'itnessing  that  whereas  Sir  Thomas  has  by 
charter  enfeofied  Sir  Robert  of  all  lands,  rents  and  services  held  jointly 
and  severally  by  Robert  Pykot  and  Bartholomew  Deumars  and  some- 
time by  the  said  John  in  the  town  of  Horndon,  except  so  much  as 
Sir  Robert  had  of  the  grant  or  feoffment  of  Mary  who  was  wife  of 
Thomas  Fabel,  and  is  thereby  bound  to  warranty  thereof  quit  of 
actions  or  charges  made  by  Sir  Thomas,  John  Fabel  and  Robert  Pykot 
or  any  other  from  1  March  27  Edward  III  to  the  date  of  the  said 
charter  save  actions  and  charges  made  or  begun  by  Sir  Robert  and 
issues,  fines  and  amercements  affecting  the  said  Bartholomew  ;  and 
whereas  the  said  Sir  Thomas  and  John  have  severally  by  their  writings 
granted  and  released  to  Sir  Robert,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  all  claim  in  the 
tenements  above  excepted,  and  Sir  Thomas  by  the  same  writing 
shall  warrant  those  tenements  quit  of  actions  and  charges  made  or 
begun  between  the  dates  aforesaid  with  the  same  exception  ;  and 
whereas  for  security  of  the  premises  Sir  Thomas  and  John  are  bound 
to  Sir  Robert  in  300Z.  by  the  two  foregoing  recognisances,  Sir  Robert 


202  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  ^d — co7ii. 

grants  that  these  shall  not  be  put  in  execution  save  only  under  any 
of  the  following  conditions,  to  wit  if  Sir  Robert,  his  heirs  or  assigns, 
be  put  out  of  the  said  tenements  or  parcel  thereof  in  the  life  of 
Sir  Thomas  or  of  Thomas  his  son  by  any  who  shall  have  a  true  title 
beginning  by  any  person  between  the  aforesaid  dates,  save  actions 
begun  by  Sir  Robert,  Sir  Thomas  or  his  said  son  after  his  death  being 
warned  by  proclamation  made  in  the  parish  church  of  Blake  Nuttele 
CO.  Essex  on  a  Sunday  during  the  solemnization  of  high  mass  in  the 
hearing  of  the  parishioners,  and  they,  their  heirs  or  assigns  failing 
within  half  a  year  after  such  Avarning  to  give  Sir  Robert  or  his  heirs 
the  value  of  the  tenements  so  lost  with  the  value  of  the  extent  thereof  ; 
or  if  Sir  Robert,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  shall  lose  the  said  tenements  or 
any  parcel  thereof  by  true  action  begun  between  the  aforesaid  dates 
by  suit  wherein  is  no  voucher  given,  save  actions  begun  by  Sir  Robert, 
and  Sir  Thomas  or  his  said  son,  being  warned  as  aforesaid,  their 
heirs  or  assigns,  shall  not  within  half  a  year  after  such  warning 
cause  them  to  have  the  value  as  aforesaid ;  or  if  Sir  Robert, 
his  heirs  or  assigns,  shall  in  the  life  time  of  Sir  Thomas  or  of 
his  said  son  be  impleaded  concerning  the  said  tenements  or 
parcel  thereof  by  true  action  begun  between  the  aforesaid  dates, 
save  actions  begun  by  Sir  Robert,  and  may  by  law  vouch  Sir 
Thomas  or  his  said  son,  and  shall  so  vouch  either  of  them,  and  the 
vouchee  shall  have  no  lands  in  Essex  whereby  he  may  be  summoned, 
by  cause  whereof  the  return  shall  be  '  sequatur  suo  periculo,'  and 
then  the  vouchee  shall  not  come  so  that  the  lands  demanded  shall  be 
lost  by  execution  or  lawful  entry  of  those  who  shall  recover  them 
against  Sir  Robert,  and  the  said  Sir  Thomas,  his  said  son,  their  heirs 
or  assigns  shall  not  within  half  a  year  after  warning  thereof  cause 
Sir  Robert,  his  heirs  or  assigns  to  have  the  value  as  aforesaid  ;  or  if 
Sir  Robert,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  be  so  impleaded  by  action  begun  between 
the  said  dates,  save  actions  begun  by  act  of  Sir  Robert,  and  may  vouch 
Sir  Thomas  or  his  said  son,  and  the  vouchee  having  lands  in  the  said 
county  shall  make  default  so  that  the  land  be  lost  by  such  default 
or  after  their  entering  into  warranty,  and  in  either  case  Sir  Thomas, 
his  said  son,  their  heirs  or  assigns  shall  not  within  half  a  year  after 
warning  cause  them  to  have  the  value  as  aforesaid  ;  or  if  in  the  life 
time  of  Sir  Thomas  or  of  his  said  son  any  true  charge  be  demanded 
and  levied  of  the  said  tenements  or  parcel  thereof  by  compulsion  of 
law  by  true  cause  begun  between  the  said  dates  by  Sir  Thomas,  John 
Fabel  and  Robert  Pykot  or  any  of  them  or  by  any  other,  those  begun 
by  Sir  Robert  and  fines,  issues  and  amercements  affecting  the  said 
Bartholomew  excepted  ;  or  if  in  the  life  time  of  Sir  Thomas  or  of  his 
said  son  any  true  charge  begun  as  aforesaid  shall  be  demanded  and 
levied  against  Sir  Robert,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  in  the  said  tenements 
by  the  said  John  released  or  in  parcel  thereof,  and  that  by  act  of 
Sir  Thomas  and  John  or  either  of  them  or  by  any  other  having  an 
estate  by  them,  those  begun  by  Sir  Robert  and  fines,  issues  and  amerce- 
ments affecting  the  said  Bartholomew  excepted,  and  Sir  Thomas, 
his  said  son,  their  heirs  or  assigns,  after  Morning  as  aforesaid  shall  not 
within  half  a  year  pay  the  same  or  recompense  Sir  Robert,  his  heirs 
or  assigns,  for  so  much  as  shall  have  been  lawfully  paid  or  levied  of  their 
lands,  goods  or  chattels  ;  or  if  in  the  life  time  of  Sir  Thomas  or  of  his 
said  son  Sir  Robert,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  shall  lose  the  said  tenements 
or  parcel  thereof  upon  a  true  title  begun  before  the  livery  thereof, 


39    KDWARD    III.  203 


13()5.  Membrane  9d — cont. 

and  Sir  Thomas  or  liis  said  son  upon  warning  thereof  shall  not  within 
six  months  cause  tliem  to  have  the  vahie  as  aforesaid  by  the  half  year, 
and  so  from  time  to  time  during  the  life  of  either  of  tliem,  upon  any 
default  the  said  recognisances  shall  be  for  execution  and  not  othcrw  ise  ; 
if  Sir  Thomas,  his  said  son,  their  heirs  or  assigns  in  time  to  come 
shall  do  to  Sir  Robert,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  to  the  value  of  the  said 
tenements  as  aforesaid,  they  shall  be  discharged  of  actions  and 
recoveries  by  writ  of  warranty  of  charter  for  so  much  thereof,  the 
warranty  remaining  in  force  for  the  residue  of  the  premises  ;  and  if 
all  tJie  covenants  herein  contained  shall  by  Sir  Thomas  and  his  said 
son  be  on  their  part  performed,  the  said  recognisances  shall  after  their 
death  be  delivered  up  by  Sir  Robert  or  by  his  executors.  Dated 
London,  20  November  39  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,   20  November. 

Membrane  8d. 

Indenture  made  between  the  king  of  the  one  part  and  Nicholas 
Prille  of  Lodelowe  and  John  de  Northbury  of  the  other  part,  being 
a  lease  of  the  subsidy  upon  cloth  for  sale  in  the  counties  of  Warrewyk, 
Leycestre,  Stafford  and  Salop  granted  to  the  king  by  the  lords  and 
commons  of  the  realm  to  have  release  of  the  forfeiture  of  alnage 
thereupon  laid  of  old  time,  for  four  years  from  this  date  rendering  to  the 
king  51  marks  a  year  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions, 
and  taking  the  third  part  of  forfeited  cloths  etc.  {as  above,  p.  70). 
Dated   Westminster,    20   June  39  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  that  Roger  Cheyne  sheriff  of  Salop  by  writ  received 
the  mainpernors  of  the  said  farmers,  namely  Richard  Prille,  John 
Cheyne,  Roger  de  Lydeneye  and  Thomas  de  Ry,  who  mainperned  to 
answer  for  the  said  farm  in  default  of  payment  thereof,  and  that 
the  farmers  should  exercise  their  office  in  accordance  with  this  inden- 
ture and  with  their  commission  and  not  otherwise. 

[F<£dera.'\ 

Like  indentures  are  made  with  the  following  : 

Worcestershire.  Henry  Seint  Johan  of  Wircestre  for  three  years 
from  Michaelmas  last  with  the  third  part  of  the  forfeitures, 
rent  465.  Sd.  a  year,  by  mainprise  of  John  Frank  of  Wyrcestre. 
Dated  Westminster,  5  October. 

Gloucestershire,  Somerset  and  Dorset.  Robert  Cheddre,  Walter  de 
Temedebury  and  William  Cheddre  for  three  years  from  Michael- 
mas next  with  the  third  part  of  the  forfeitures,  rent  152?.  a  year, 
by  mainprise  of  Walter  de  Aldebury  clerk  and  John  de 
Sekynton.     Dated  Westminster,  20  June. 

Lincolnshire  and  Roteland.  John  de  Wyford  {or  Wykford) 
clerk  for  one  year  from  5  May  next  with  the  moiety  of  the 
forfeitures,  rent  2\l.  Dated  Westminster,  12  November. 
Mainpernors  :  Roger  Costantyn,  Robert  Godman  goldsmyth 
citizens  of  London,  and  John  de  Bradle  parson  of  Whitchirch. 

Norffolk  and  Suffolk.  William  Gerard  of  Norwiz  for  three  years 
from  5  May  next  with  the  moiety  of  the  forfeitures,  rent  30Z. 
a  year.  Dated  Westminster,  21  November.  Mainpernors  : 
John  de  Foxele  of  Norwiz  and  John  Frere  of  Derham  the  son  of 
Norffolk. 


I 


204  CALENDAR   OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  Sd — cont. 

Wiltes.  William  Wyther  of  Dorchestre  for  three  years  from 
Michaelmas  last  with  the  third  part  of  the  forfeitures,  rent 
631.  6s.  8d.  a  year.  Dated  Westminster,  12  October.  Main- 
pernors :  Thomas  Staunton  of  Yepe,  Richard  Gerard  of 
Dorchestre  and  John  Benet  of  Dorchestre  co.  Dorset.    French. 

[Feeder  a.] 

Indenture  made  between  the  king  and  John  de  Mottesfonte,  being 
a  like  lease  of  the  subsidy  upon  cloth  for  sale  in  the  county  of 
Suthampton  from  Michaelmas  last  until  the  same  feast  next  following 
rendering  201.  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  taking 
all  forfeited  cloths  etc.  as  above,  mutatis  m^Uandis.  Dated  West- 
minster, 20  October.     French. 

Memorandum  that  Thomas  Micheldevre  and  Thomas  Austyn  of  the 
said  county  were  mainpernors  for  payment  of  the  said  John's  farm. 

[Ihid.-] 

Like  indentures  are  made  with  the  following  : 

Surrey  and  Sussex.  Walter  Wodelond  from  Michaelmas  last 
for  two  years  with  all  forfeitures,  rent  8Z.  a  year,  by  mainprise 
of  William  Grof ham  of  London  '  iremongere '  and  John  de 
Notingham  of  Dorkynge  co.  Surrey.  Dated  Westminster, 
12  October.     French. 

[Ihid.-] 

Membrane  Id. 

Nov.  24.         Ralph  prior  of  Plympton  to  John  de  Asshe  of  Otryton.  Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  40/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default -of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Devon. 

Indenture  made  at  Westminster  25  November  39  Edward  III 
between  the  prior  of  Plympton  and  John  de  Aisshe,  being  a  defeasance 
of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  prior 
and  his  convent  shall  put  their  common  seal  to  a  deed  granting  to  the 
said  John  a  corrody  {Latin  text  follows),  and  that  they  shall  put  him 
or  his  attorney  in  seisin  thereof  when  required  ;  defeasance  also  of 
a  bond  of  the  said  prior  in  40Z.  payable  at  the  Purification  next,  upon 
condition  that  the  prior  shall  on  Mid  Lent  Sunday  next. pay  to  him 
or  his  attorney  at  Plympton  101.,  and  at  Michaelmas  following  10/. 
French. 

By  the  letters  indented  above  recited,  Ralph  de  Paciencia  prior  of 
Plympton  and  the  convent,  at  the  king's  request,  grant  to  John  de 
Aisshe  for  life  a  chamber  and  stable  in  the  said  priory,  taking  every 
year  one  gown  with  furring,  shoes,  candles  and  horse  shoes  as  one  of 
their  esquires,  and  every  day  two  white  loaves  and  one  barley  loaf, 
two  messes  of  meat  of  the  kitchen  as  a  canon  of  the  house  and  two 
gallons  of  the  convent  ale  whether  present  or  absent,  but  if  when 
present  he  shall  mess  at  the  prior's  table  or  elsewhere  at  the  cost  of  the 
house  he  shall  on  those  days  take  nothing  of  bread,  of  the  kitchen 
or  of  ale  ;  granting  also  to  his  groom  every  year  one  gown  of  the 
suit  of  the  prior's  grooms,  and  when  they  shall  be  present  only,  every 
day  meat  and  drink,  and  hay  and  oats  for  one  horse,  as  the  groom 
and  horse  of  one  of  their  esquires  have.  Dated  Plympton,  Sunday 
before  St.  Katherine  the  same  year. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  26  November. 


39    EDWARD    IIT.  205 


1305.  Membrane  Id — cont. 

Dec.  1.  John  de  Gnatyshale  of  Norwich  and  WilHam  his  brother  to  Simon 

Westminster,  bishop  of  Ely.     Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  50  marks,  to  be 
levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Norffolk. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Memorandum  that  on  Tuesday  2  December  this  year  William  de 
Dalton  clerk,  appearing  in  chancery,  produced  certain  articles  against 
him  set  forth  by  William  de  Tyrynglon  clerk  before  the  council  and 
his  answers  to  the  same  in  writing,  which  articles  laid  upon  the  said 
,  William  de  Dalton  that  he  made  certain  suits  in  the  court  of  Rome 

to  the  hurt  of  the  king  and  realm,  and  were  to  him  delivered  by  the 
council  for  answer  at  his  petition  ;  and  the  chancellor  handed  the  said 
articles  and  answers  for  inspection  to  John  Knyvet  chief  justice  and 
Robert  de  Thorpe  chief  justice  of  the  Common  Bench,  bidding  them 
on  the  king's  behalf  to  consult  thereupon  and  make  an  end  thereof, 
who  said  that  they  were  departing  [deviarent)  on  the  morrow,  and  in 
so  short  a  time  might  not  fully  debate  the  business,  wherefore  with  the 
assent  of  William  de  Tiryngton  a  day  is  given  to  both  parties  in  the 
octaves  of  St.  Hilary  next  to  be  before  the  council  in  order  to  do  and 
receive  what  shall  be  lawful  in  that  behalf.  And  thereupon  William  de 
Dalton  appoints  as  his  attorneys  Guy  de  Brian  and  Michael  de 
Ravendale  clerk. 

Writing  of  Henry  '  in  the  Hale '  citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London, 
being  a  grant  and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Robert  Pycot  citizen 
and  draper  of  London  and  Maud  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  and  assigns 
of  the  said  Robert  of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services,  and  the  reversion 
thereof,  which  Joan,  who  was  wife  of  John  '  in  the  Hale '  of  Reynham, 
late  brother  of  Henry,  held  for  life  in  Bolevaune,  Esthorndon,  Langedon 
and  Bartlesden  co.  Essex,  and  by  writing  indented  granted  and  demised 
her  estate  to  the  said  Robert  and  Maud,  and  the  reversion  whereof 
the  said  Henry  lately  granted  to  them.  Witnesses  :  John  Warde, 
Robert  de  Hatfeld,  John  de  Someresham,  Bartholomew  Deumarcz, 
John  de  Edendon.     Dated  London,  4  March  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  December  this  year. 

Nov.  18.  To  William  de  Shareshull  and  John  de  Swynnerton  of  Hulton. 
Westminster.  Order  to  stay  altogether  until  further  order  the  execution  of  the  king's 
commission  of  gaol  delivery  at  Stafford  gaol  to  them  and  others 
made;  as  in  singular  the  counties  of  the  realm  the  king  by  letters 
patent  has  appointed  justices  for  delivery  of  all  gaols  therein.  By  C. 
The  like  to  the  said  William  and  to  Philip  de  Lutteleye,  to  stay 
a  gaol  delivery  at  Worcester  castle.  By  C. 

Membrane  Qd. 

Charter  of  William  de  Monte  Acuto  earl  of  Salisbury  and  lord  of 
the  Isle  of  Mann,  giving  v.ith  warranty  to  Richard  de  Chaddeslee  his 
clerk,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  for  good  service,  his  manor  of  Malberthorp 
with  the  hamlets  of  Thidelthorp,  Foulesthorp  and  Hotoft  co.  Lincoln, 
the  knights'  fees,  liberties,  free  customs,  rents  and  services  of  free 
and  villein  tenants,  wreck  of  the  sea,  wards,  marriages  etc.  Witnesses  : 
Sir  Brian  de  Stapelton,  Sir  John  de  Muriet,  Sir  Edmund  de  Domere 
knights,  Sir  Richard  de  Ravenser  clerk,  Walter  Guphey,  William  de 
Kandlesby,  Thomas  Waryn.     Dated  London,  31  July  34  Edward  III, 


208  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  6d — cont. 

Writing  of  William  de  Monte  Acuto  earl  of  Salisbury  and  lord  of  the 
Isle  of  Mann,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Richard  de  Chaddesleye  his  clerk 
of  the  manor  of  Malberthorp  co.  Lincoln  with  the  hamlets,  knights' 
fees,  wreck  of  the  sea,  wards,  marriages  etc,  thereto  pertaining.  Dated 
London,  24  August  34  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  William  de  Mountagu  earl  of  Salesbury  and  lord  of  Man, 
being  a  quitclaim  to  Richard  de  Chaddeslee  and  his  heirs  of  all  right, 
action  and  demand  in  the  manor  of  Malberthorp  co^  Lincoln  and  all 
appurtenances  thereof.  Dated  London,  7  December  39  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  aclaiowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and  writings 
in  the  said  earl's  lodging  in  the  parish  of  St.  Benet  by  Pauleswherf 
London,  8  December  this  year,  before  Wilham  de  Burstall  clerk,  by 
virtue  of  a  writ  of  dedimus  potestatem  which  is  on  the  files  in  chancery 
for  this  year. 

Charter  of  William  de  Say  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to  Robert 
de  Beleknappe  and  Amy  his  wife,  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said 
Robert,  his  manor  of  Sharstede  and  all  his  lands,  woods,  pastures, 
farms,  warrens,  liberties,  rents  and  services  etc.  in  the  towns  and 
parishes  of  Chetham  and  Gillyngham  co.  Kent.  Dated  London, 
2  December  39  Edward  III.  Witnesses  :  Sir  John  de  Cobeham 
lord  of  Cobeham,  Adam  Fraunceys,  Geoffrey  Colpeper, Thomas  Colpeper, 
John  de  Wanetench,  James  de  Pekham,  Nicholas  Heryng,  William 
Chivaler. 

Writing  of  William  de  Say  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Robert  de  Beleknappe  and  Amy.  his  wife,  the  heirs  and  assigns 
of  the  said  Robert,  of  the  manor  of  Sharstede  and  all  lands,  woods, 
pastures,  farms,  warrens,  liberties,  rents  and  services  in  the  towns 
and  parishes  of  Chetham  and  Gillyngham  co.  Kent  which  they  have 
of  the  said  William's  gift ;  and  further  grant  and  bond  that  William 
and  his  heirs  will  acquit  and  save  them  harmless  towards  the  king 
of  all  debts  and  accounts,  and  towards  any  other  of  all  charges,  debts 
and  recognisances  made  by  the  said  William  or  by  any  other  tenant 
of  the  premises  before  this  date.  Dated  London,  20  December 
39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing  in  the  chancery  at  London,  22  December. 

Dec.  10  To  the  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  St.  Botolph.     Order,  for  particular 

Westminster,  causes,  to  cause  all  cellars  or  houses  wherein  are  stored  sweet  wines 

and  no  other  for  sale  to  be  without  delay  closed  and  kept  closed,  and 

if  in  any  house  are  stored  sweet  wines  with  other  wines  to  cause  them 

to  be  parted,  and  the  sweet  wines  or  the  other  to  be  drawn  forth 

thence,  closing  the  cellars  or  houses  wherein  the  sweet  wines  shall  be 

stored,  so  that  the  same  shall  not  be  sold  to  be  taken  forth  elsewhere 

until  further  order.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Foedera.] 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Rochester  and  of  25  other  cities  and 

towns. 
The  mayor  and  baiUffs  of  Sandwych  and  of  12  other  cities  and 
towns. 
[Ibid.] 


39    EDWARD    III.  207 


1365.  Membrane  5d. 

Charter  of  William  dc  la  Forde,  son  sometime  of  John  de  la  Fordo 
of  Hemelhamstedc,  giving  Mi  Hi  warranty  to  Adam  le  Gardiner  of 
Pendolc  and  Adam  Coke  of  Little  Gatesden,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  of  tenants  wliatsoever,  meadows, 
feedings,  pastures,  woods  etc.  which  the  said  William  had  or  may 
have  in  the  towns  of  Hemelhamstedc  and  Kings  Langeleye,  sometime 
of  his  said  father,  of  Walter  le  Saucer,  Margery  his  wife  and  John  le 
Corveyser,  and  all  other  he  had  or  may  have  in  the  said  towns  in 
demesne  or  in  reversion  except  such  as  were  sometime  of  Richard  le 
Chamberlayn.  Witnesses  :  Sir  John  Cheyne,  Sir  John  de  Aylesbury 
knights,  John  de  la  Hay,  William  de  Wotton,  John  atte  Strete,  John  le 
Clerk  of  Hemelhamstedc.  Dated  Hemelhamstedc,  Sunday  the  feast  of 
St.  Clement  39  Edward  III. 

Charter  of  William  de  la  Forde  {as  above),  giving  to  Adam  le  Gardiner 
of  Pendele  and  Adam  Coke  of  Little  Gatesden,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
all  his  lands,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  woods,  rents  and  services 
of  tenants  whatsoever  sometime  of  Richard  le  Chamberlayn  in  the 
towns  of  Hamelhamstede  and  Kings  Langele.  Witnesses  :  Sir  John 
de  Chenie,  Sir  John  de  Aillesbury  knights,  John  de  la  Haye,  William  de 
Wotton,  John  atte  Strete,  John  le  Clerc  of  Hamelhamstede.  Dated 
Hamelhamstede  {as  the  last). 

Writing  of  William  de  la  Forde  {as  above),  being  a  letter  of  attorney 
to  William  de  Wotton  and  William  de  Wengrave  to  deliver  to  Adam  le 
Gardiner  of  Pendele  and  Adam  Coke  of  Little  Gatesden  seisin  of  all 
the  lands  etc.  which  the  said  William  de  la  Forde  ever  had  in  the 
towns  of  Hamelhamstede  and  Kings  Langele,  according  to  his  charters 
to  them  made.     Dated  Hamelhamstede  {as  above). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charters  and 
writing,   3  December, 

Writing  of  Thomas  son  of  John  de  la  Forde  of  Hamelhamstede, 
being  a  quitclaim  to  Adam  Gardiner  of  Pendele  and  Adam  Coke  of 
Little  Gatesden,  in  seisin  thereof  being  by  gift  and  feoffment  of 
William  his  brother,  of  all  lands,  rents  and  services  of  tenants  whatso- 
ever, meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  woods  etc.  sometime  of  his  said 
father,  of  W^alter  le  Saucer,  Margery  his  wife  and  John  le  Corveyser, 
with  all  other  which  the  said  William  ever  had  in  the  towns  of 
Hamelhamstede  and  Kings  Langele,  and  warranty  of  the  premises 
to  the  said  Adam  and  Adam,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  except  such 
lands  etc.  as  were  of  Richard  le  Chamberlayn.  Witnesses  :  Sir  John 
Chenie,  Sir  John  de  Aillesbury  knights,  John  de  la  Haye,  William 
Wotton,  John  atte  Strete,  John  le  Clerc  of  Hamelhamstede.  Dated 
Hamelhamstede,  Sunday  the  feast  of  St.  Andrew  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  December. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Marny  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Robert  de 
Bourton  parson  of  Wykham  and  late  warden  of  the  chantry  of  Leyre 
Marny  church  and  to  Edmund  Barnabe  of  the  wardship  of  the  lands 
which  were  in  the  king's  hand  after  the  death  of  William  Bruyn  knight 
by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  and  of  the  said  heir's  marriage. 
Dated  London,  5  December  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum   of   acknowledgment;    15  December. 


208  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  5d—coni. 

Dec.  16.         John  Grismond  of  London  '  taillour  '  to  Thomas  de  Thelwall  clerk, 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  Ql.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 

Dec.  21.  John  de  Enefeld  citizen  and  pepperer  of  London,  Eudo  Purchace 
Westminster,  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  Geoffrey  Adam  citizen  of  London, 
John  de  Kestevene  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  John  de  Shalyngford 
citizen  and  tailor  of  London  and  Roger  de  Gippewico  citizen  and 
cordwainer  of  London  to  John  Briklesworth  citizen  of  London. 
Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  40Z.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  the  city  of 
London. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  before  the  chancellor. 

Membrane  4:d. 

Writing  of  Andrew  de  Sakeville  the  son  knight,  giving  with  warranty 
to  Ralph  de  Restwold  and  Thomas  Hancepe,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
the  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Beaumys  etc.  in  Great  Shoprugge, 
Swalewefeld,  Shynyngfeld,  Stratfeld,  Burefeld,  Suthcote,  Farleye  etc. 
COS.  Wiltes  and  Berks,  and  the  third  part  of  the  manors  of  Hakeneston 
CO.  Wiltes,  Lekhampstede  and  Yatyndon  co.  Berks,  with  the  advowsons 
of  Yatyngden  church  and  Hakeneston  chapel,  which  descended  to 
him  after  the  death  of  Edmund  de  la  Beche  as  cousin  and  one  of  the 
heirs  of  Nicholas  de  la  Beche  knight.  Witnesses  :  John  Bardolf, 
William  de  Makeneye,  Hugh  de  Bere-^yk  knights,  Henry  Stormy, 
Robert  Bullok,  Andrew  de  Stratford.  Dated  la  Lee  in  the  parish  of 
la  Hurst,  Wednesday  the  feast  of  St.  Barnabas  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  December. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Hancepe,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Ralph  de  Restwold 
of  all  right  in  the  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Beaumys  with  appurten- 
ances in  Great  Sheprugge,  Swalefeld,  Shynyngfeld,  Stratfeld,  Burefeld, 
Suthcote,  Farleye  etc.  cos.  Wiltes  and  Berks,  and  in  the  third  part 
part  of  the  manor  of  Hakeneston  co.  Wiltes  with  the  advowson  of  the 
chapel.  Witnesses  :  John  Bardolf,  William  Makkeneye,  Hugh  de 
Berewyk  knights,  Henry  Sturmy,  Robert  Bullok,  Andrew  de  Stratford. 
Dated  la  Lee  in  the  parish  of  la  Hurst,  the  eve  of  St.  Andrew 
39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  December. 

Writing  of  Andrew  de  Sakeville  the  son  knight,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Ralph  de  Restwold,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  third 
part  of  the  manor  of  Beaumys  with  appurtenances  in  Great  Sheprugge, 
Swalwefeld,  Shynyngfeld,  Stratfeld,  Burefeld,  Southcote,  Farley  etc. 
COS.  Wiltes  and  Berks,  and  the  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Hakeneston 
CO.  Wiltes  with  the  advowson  of  Hakeneston  chapel.  Witnesses 
{as  the  last).  Dated  la  Lee  in  the  parish  of  la  Hurst,  Tuesday  after 
St.  Andrew  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  December. 

Writing  of  Ralph  de  Restwold,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Thomas  Hancepe 
of  all  right  in  the  third  part  of  the  manors  of  Lekhampstede  and 
Yatyngden  co.  Berks  and  in  the  advowson  of  Yatyngden  church. 
Witnesses  {as  above).  Dated  la  Lee  in  the  parish  of  la  Hurst,  the  eve 
of  St.  Andrew  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  December. 


39    EDWARD    III. 


209 


l«^^o.  Membrane  4rf — cont. 

Dec.  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  Devon.     Order,   upon   the  petition    of    Robert 

Westminster.  Goderych  '  skynnerc,'  to  stay  the  exigents  against  him  and  the  taking 
of  liis  body  at  the  suit  of  John  Pasford  '  coidcwaner  '  until  the  day 
the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable,  bringing  this  writ  on  that  day  ;  as 
the  said  John  is  impleading  the  eaid  Robert  before  the  justices  of  the 
Bench  concerning  an  alleged  trespass,  and  the  said  Robert  is  put  in 
exigents  to  be  outlawed  in  that  county  for  that  lie  came  not  before 
the  said  justices  to  answer  the  said  John,  and  has  prayed  to  be  dis- 
missed until  the  said  day  as  he  is  ready  so  to  answer  and  to  stand  to 
right  in  that  behalf  ;  and  he  has  found  in  chancery  Walter  Oxton, 
Robert  Ive,  Thomas  Duke  and  Richard  Olneye  of  the  city  of  London, 
Avho  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  100/.  to  have  his  body  before 
the  said  justices  on  that  day. 


Dec.  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  de 
Westminster.  Lodelyngden,  Richard  de  Ellehirst  and  Ralph  his  brother,  Richard 
Aleyn  and  Michael  his  brother  and  Geoffrey  Lyghtefot,  to  stay  the 
taking  of  their  bodies  until  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  by  mainprise 
of  Thomas  Cheyvene  of  Merden  the  elder,  Thomas  de  Chyvene  the 
younger,  John  Hay  ward  '  sherman  '  and  Richard  Wolf  of  London, 
bringing  this  writ  on  that  day  ;  as  Thomas  Hartherugge  of  Merden 
is  impleading  the  said  John  de  Lodelyngden  and  the  others  before 
the  justices  of  the  Bench  for  an  alleged  trespass,  and  for  that  the  sheriff 
returned  before  the  said  justices  that  they  were  not  found  and  have 
nothing  in  his  bailiwick  whereby  they  might  be  attached,  the  king 
ordered  him  by  writ  de  judicio  to  take  them  so  as  to  have  them  before 
the  justices  on  the  aforesaid  day  to  answer  to  the  said  Thomas  ;  and 
they  have  prayed  to  be  dismissed  until  that  day  as  they  are  ready 
to  answer  touching  the  said  trespass,  and  have  found  in  chancery 
the  said  mainpernors,  who  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  20Z.  to 
have  their  bodies  before  the  justices  as  aforesaid. 

1366. 

Jan.  15.         Nicholas  Blonvylle  of  Norfolk  to  John  de  Barton  citizen  and  mercer 
Westminster,  of  London.     Recognisance  for  lOOL,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Norffolk. 


1365. 

Dec.  29. 

Windsor. 


To  Richard  la  Vache  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London  or  to  his 
lieutenant.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Richard  de  Wylynghale 
and  Nicholas  de  Sutton  of  Hornchurch,  imprisoned  in  the  Towner 
for  trespasses  by  them  committed  against  the  keeper  of  the  church  of 
Hornchurch,  as  they  have  before  the  king  and  council  acknowledged, 
to  cause  them  without  delay  to  be  set  free  from  the  said  prison  by 
mainprise  of  William  Stanes,  John  Herre,  John  Shillyng  and  John  de 
Haveryng  atte  Boure  of  Essex  ;  as  the  said  mainpernors,  appearing 
in  person  before  the  king  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  severally 
under  a  pain  of  lOOZ.  to  content  as  well  the  king  at  his  will  of  what 
pertains  to  him  as  the  said  keeper  of  his  damages,  and  also  for  the 
said  prisoners'  good  behaviour.  By  p.s.  [26826.] 

1366. 

Jan.  23.         William  le  Venour  parson  of  Exton  to  John  atte  Brigge    clerk. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  100^.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Somerset. 

E  14 


210  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1365.  Membrane  3d. 

Writing  indented  of  Juliana  who  was  wife  of  Henry  son  of  Conan  de 
Kelkfeld  knight,  being  a  lease  to  farm  of  her  manor  of  Kelkfeld,  which 
was  in  seisin  of  Conan  son  of  Henry  de  Kelkfeld  knight,  to  John  son 
of  Nicholas  de  Langton  of  York  and  Thomas  de  Pencotes,  and  to 
their  executors,  from  Thursday  after  the  Assumption  39  Edward  III 
to  Michaelmas  following  and  thenceforward  for  one  whole  year,  paying 
at  the  end  of  the  year  201.,  to  payment  whereof  they  bind  themselves 
and  their  executors.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Thomas  de  Musgrave,  Sir  John 
Moubray  knights,  Thomas  de  Mersk,  William  Gascoigne,  John  de 
Wyclyf.     Dated  York,  the  day  before  mentioned. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  York,  16  December,  before 
Thomas  de  Ingelby,  by  virtue  of  a  writ  of  dedimus  potestatem  which  is 
on  the  files  of  chancery  for  this  year. 

Charter  indented  between  Dame  Juliana  who  was  wife  of  Sir  Henry 
son  of  Conan  de  Kelkefeld  and  Thomas  son  of  Henry  son  of  Conan 
de  Kelkefeld,  giving  to  the  said  Thomas  and  his  heirs  the  manor  of 
Kelkefeld  with  all  lands  etc.  \^'hich  were  of  the  said  Sir  Henry  in  Kelke- 
feld except  a  messuage  and  two  bovates  of  land  by  the  said  Henry  pur- 
chased of  William  son  of  Conan  chaplain,  so  long  as  the  said  Juliana 
shall  peaceably  hold  the  manor  of  Manfeld  in  Richemondshire  for  term 
of  her  life  without  being  by  the  said  Thomas  or  his  heirs  put  out  or 
impleaded  concerning  the  same  or  any  parcel  thereof,  and  if  so  put  out  or 
impleaded  in  a  plea  to  which  they  shall  appear  in  any  court  of  record, 
it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  said  Juliana  to  enter  the  said  manor  and 
lands  in  Kelkefeld  without  gainsaying,  saving  always  her  action  for 
dower  if  otherwise  she  have  right  thereto.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Thomas  de 
Musgrave  the  father,  Sir  John  Moubray,  John  de  Eencotes,  William 
de  Nessefeld,  Alexander  Moubray  William  Gascoigne,  William  de 
Swale,  Thomas  de  Mersk.  Dated  Kelkefeld,  Monday  the  feast  of  the 
Conception  39  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  at  York, 
16  December,  before  Thomas  de  Ingelby  {as  above). 

1366.  Membrane  2d. 

Jan.  20.  To  S.  archbishop  of  Canterbury.  Summons  to  a  parliament  to  be 
Westminster,  holden  at  Westminster  on  Monday  the  morrow  of  the  Invention  of 
Holy  Cross  next,  directing  him  to  warn  the  prior  and  chapter  of  Christ 
Church  Canterbury,  the  archdeacons  and  clergy  of  the  diocese  to  be 
present,  the  said  prior  and  archdeacons  in  person,  the  chapter  by  one 
proctor  and  the  clergy  by  two,  and  desiring  him  to  be  at  London  on  the 
Sunday  before  that  date  so  as  to  attend  at  Westminster  on  the 
Monday  morning.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Report  on  the  Dignity  of  a  Peer,  iv.  p.  639.] 

The  like  to  John  archbishop  of  York,  Thomas  bishop  of  Durham 
and  sixteen  other  bishops,  the  bishops  of  Landaff,  St.  Asaph  and 
Bath  and  Wells  not  being  named. 

[Ihid.'] 

To  the  abbot  of  Glastonbury.     Summons  to  the  said  parliament. 
The  like  to  the  abbot  of  St.  Augustine  Canterbury  and  21  other 

abbots,  the  prior  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  and  the  prior  of 

Coventre. 
[Ihid.'\ 


39  EDWARl)    111.  211 


1*^""'  Membrane  2d — cont. 

To  John  duke  of  Lancastrc  the  king's  son.  Summons  to  the  said 
parliament. 

The  like  to  Edmund  carl  of  Cantebrigge  and  nine  other  earls,  Henry 
de  Percy  and  40  otliers,  including  John  de  Bohun  of  Midhuist. 

[Ibid.,  p.  640.] 

To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order  to  cause  two  knights  of  the  shire, 
two  citizens  of  every  city  and  two  burgesses  of  every  borough  to  be 
elected  and  come  to  the  said  parliament. 

The  like  to  singular  the  sheriffs  of  England. 

[Ibid.] 

To  Ralph  Spigurnell  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of  the 
Cinque  Ports,  or  to  his  lieutenant.  Order  to  cause  two  barons  of  every 
of  the  said  ports  to  be  elected  and  come  to  the  said  parliament. 

[Ibid.,  p.  641.] 

To  John  Knyvet.     Summons  to  the  said  parliament. 
The  like  to  Robert  de  Thorpe  and  twelve  others. 
[Ibid.] 

Membrane  id. 

Jan.  23.         John  Devenysshe  citizen  and  skinner  of  London  to  Walter  de  Multon 
Westminster,  clerk.     Recognisance  for  30/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of   payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 

Jan.  23.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of 
Westminster.  Alice  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  de  Cokefeld  knight  and  Richard  atte 
Celer  citizen  of  London,  to  view  the  record  and  process  of  a  plea  before 
them  in  the  busting  of  London  upon  a  writ  of  right  against  Robert  de 
Hull  '  maryner  '  concerning  a  messuage  and  two  shops  in  London, 
and  to  proceed  therein  and  do  justice  to  the  parties  according  to  the 
custom  of  the  said  city,  the  allegation  of  the  defendant  that  the  king 
was  seised  of  the  premises  and  by  letters  patent  gave  them  to  the  said 
Robert  notwithstanding,  so  that  they  do  not  proceed  to  rendering  of 
judgment  without  advising  the  king  ;  as  the  said  Alice  and  Richard 
have  shewn  the  king  that  they  sued  before  the  said  mayor  and  sheriffs 
for  the  said  messuage  and  shops,  that  the  said  Robert  in  pleading 
alleged  that  the  king  was  thereof  seised  in  fee  and  gave  the  premises 
as  aforesaid  to  him  for  life  with  reversion  to  the  king  and  his  heirs 
by  the  name  of  a  messuage  with  the  appurtenances,  for  which  cause 
he  ought  not  without  the  king  to  answer  the  plaintiffs,  and  that  by 
colour  thereof  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  deferred  to  proceed  therein,  to 
the  plaintiffs'   hurt.  By  C. 

Charter  of  John  Cory  clerk,  giving  to  the  king,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
all  his  tenements  and  messuages  with  two  gardens  and  curtilages 
and  the  dovecot  thereto  adjoining  etc.  sometime  of  Roger  atte  Ponde, 
John  Reed  and  Agnes  Lucas  at  Estsmethefeld  and  upon  la  Tourhulle 
in  tlie  parish  of  St.  Botulph  without  Algate  London,  situate  and  lying 
in  length  between  the  new  churchyard  of  Holy  Trinity  and  a  tenement 
of  the  abbot  and  monks  of  St.  Mary  Graces  by  the  Tower  of  London 
on  the  south  side  and  another  highway  called  Hoggestrete  on  the  north, 
and  in  breadth  between  the  said  churchyard  on  the  east  and  the  public 


212  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1366.  Membrane  Id — cont. 

street  towards  the  city  of  London  on  the  west.  Witnesses  :  Adam  de 
Bury  then  mayor  of  the  said  city,  John  Brikelesworth  and  Thomas  de 
Irlaund  sheriffs,  John  de  Wendovere,  Robert  Groylonde,  Wilham 
Gamen.  Dated  la  Tourhulle,  6  November  the  feast  of  St.  Leonard 
39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  22  January. 

Memorandum  that  this  charter  was  delivered  to  the  said  abbot, 
to  whom  the  king  gave  the  premises  therein  comprised. 

Jan.  22.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  cause  the  king's  former  order 
Westminster,  concerning  the  sale  of  sweet  wines  to  be  proclaimed  in  the  city  ana 
suburbs  of  London,  and  to  be  observed,  and  if  after  such  proclamation 
they  shall  find  any  persons  contravening  the  same,  to  arrest  and  safe 
keep  until  further  order  as  forfeit  to  the  king  all  sweet  wines  so  exposed 
for  sale,  the  tuns  or  vessels  wherefrom  such  wines  were  drawn  and  all 
wine  therein  remaining,  and  also  the  bodies  of  the  vendors,  certifying 
such  arrest  from  time  to  time  in  chancery  under  their  seals  ;  as  lately 
the  king  ordered  all  cellars  or  houses  wherein  sweet  wines  were  stored 
to  be  closed  and  kept  closed  so  that  none  should  be  drawn  out  thence 
until  further  order,  and  now  after  deliberation  had  touching  the  matter 
with  the  prelates,  nobles  and  other  learned  men,  by  common  consent 
it  is  agreed  for  the  public  weal  and  the  advantage  of  the  people  that  no 
merchant,  taverner  or  other  person  whatsoever  shall  on  any  pretence, 
under  pain  of  imprisonment  at  the  king's  will  and  forfeiture  of  double 
the  value  of  the  tun  or  vessel  from  which  the  same  is  drawn  and  all 
wine  therein,  sell  or  cause  to  be  sold  any  sweet  wines  at  retail  or  by 
parcels  or  otherwise  in  small  quantities  within  the  realm  in  any 
houses  or  places,  and  that  all  such  wines  now  within  the  realm,  save 
those  reserved  in  gross  for  the  households  of  lords  and  others,  shall 
under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof  be  taken  out  of  the  realm  before 
Easter  next.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Foedera.'] 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Rochester  and  22  other  cities  and  towns. 
The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Sandwich  and  of  15  other  cities  and 
towns. 

[Ibid.'] 

Writing  of  Geoffrey  son  of  William  de  Swynithwait,  being  a  quit- 
claim with  warranty  to  Sir  Richard  le  Scrope  knight,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Preston  by  Layburn.  Witnesses :  Geoffrey 
Pigott,  Robert  de  Stodawe,  Gilbert  de  Wauton,  John  de  Thoresby, 
Peter  de  Wencelaghe,  John  Botiller  of  Layburn,  Henry  de  Bellerby, 
Roger  de  Eston,  John  de  Gunwardeby,  William  de  Redenesse  clerk. 
Dated  Preston  aforesaid,  Sunday  before  Martinmas  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Kirtelyngton  in  Richemund- 
shire,  9  January,  before  John  Moubray,  by  virtue  of  a  writ  of  dedimus 
potestatem  which  is  on  the  files  of  chancery  for  this  year. 


(213) 


40  EDWARD  III. 


1360.  Membrane  30. 

Jan  28.  To  Lionel  duke  of  Clarence  the  king's  son  and  lieutenant  in 
Westminster.  Ireland,  and  to  the  chancellor  and  treasurer  in  Ireland.  Order  to 
cause  all  the  lands  in  Ireland  of  Agnes  who  was  wife  of  Lawrence  de 
Hastynges  earl  of  Pembroke  to  be  delivered  to  her  ;  as  willing  to 
shew  favour  to  the  said  countess  the  king  has  granted  her  all  her 
said  lands,  to  hold  in  the  same  manner  as  before  they  were  by  the 
king's  command  taken  into  his  hand  by  reason  of  the  subsidy  for 
a  set  time  for  defence  of  Ireland  against  his  Irish  enemies.         By  K. 

Feb.  12.  To    John    de    Evesham    escheator   in  Oxfordshire  and  Berkshire. 

Westminster.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Thomas  de  Kent,  to  deliver  to  him  a  corrody 
or  maintenance  which  he  had  for  life  in  the  abbey  of  Eynesham,  and 
all  his  goods  and  chattels  taken  as  forfeit  into  the  king's  hand  and 
in  the  escheator's  keeping  it  is  said  ;  as  lately  by  letters  patent  the 
king  pardoned  the  said  Thomas  the  suit  of  the  king's  peace  to  him 
pertaining  for  the  death  of  Reynold  de  Lyneham  whereof  the  said 
Thomas  is  indicted  or  appealed,  and  any  outlawry  published  against 
him  for  that  cause  ;  and  now  the  said  Thomas  has  prayed  for 
restitution  of  the  said  corrody  and  goods  so  taken  for  that  he  was 
outlawed,  and  the  king  of  his  favour  has  granted  the  same  of  his  gift 
to  the  said  Thomas  in  consideration  of  his  good  behaviour  in  past 
time  in  the  king's  wars,  and  out  of  compassion  for  his  advanced  age. 
It  is  the  king's  will  that  the  escheator  be  thereof  discharged. 

By  p.s.  [26874.] 

Feb.  4.  To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Norffolk.    Order  not  to  meddle 

Westminster,  further  with  one  carucate  of  land  in  Hempstede  by  Holt  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Robert  de  Corby,  delivering  to  Joan 
late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Robert  at  his  death 
held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  nor  of  any  other  in  his  demesne 
as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  land  jointly  with  the  said  Joan  of  the  gift 
of  Thomas  parson  of  Lyndon  and  Thomas  Tyngewyk  chaplain  to 
them  and  the  heirs  of  Robert,  and  that  the  same  is  not  held  of  the 
king. 

Feb.  4.  To  William  de  Otteford  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire.     Order  not 

Westmmster.  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of  Swafham  Prior  and  Westwrattyng 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Robert  de  Corby,  delivering 
up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Robert  at  his  death  held  the  said 
manors,  sometime  of  John  de  Bregham,  of  the  king's  grant  to  him 
and  Joan  his  wife  (yet  living)  and  to  the  heirs  of  Robert  ;  and  on 
11  June  in  the  35th  year  of  his  reign  by  letters  patent  the  king 
granted  the  reversion  of  the  said  manors  then  held  for  life,  the  latter 
by  John  Goderich,  the  former  by  Richard  de  Acton  yeomen  of  the 
king's  kitchen,  with  reversion  to  the  king,  to  the  said  Robert  and 
Joan  and  to  the  heirs  of  Robert. 


214 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1866.  Membrane  30 — cont. 

Feb.  4.  To  John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Kent.     Order  not  to  meddle  further 

Westminster,  with  the  manor  of  Bocton  Malherbe  and  divers  other  lands  taken 
into  the  king's  hands  by  the  death  of  Robert  de  Corby,  delivering 
to  Joan  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Robert  at  his 
death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee, 
but  that  he  and  the  said  Joan  jointly  held  the  premises  of  others 
than  the  king. 

Feb.  12.  To  William  de  Otteford  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire.  Order  not 
Westminster,  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Horseth  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  William  de  Audele,  dehvering  up  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  the  said  William  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that 
county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  manor 
of  others  than  the  king. 

To  William  de  Otteford  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.  Order  to 
take  the  fealty  of  Joan  late  the  wife  of  William  de  Audele  according 
to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with 
the  manor  of  Astonclynton,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  the  said  William,  delivering  to  the  said  Joan  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  William  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  manor  in  chief  by  knight  service 
jointly  with  the  said  Joan  of  the  gift  of  John  de  Wroxston  chaplain 
made  with  the  king's  licence  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies. 

Feb.  12.  To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Oxfordshire.  Order  not  to 
Westminster,  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Herdewyk  and  one  virgate  of  land 
in  Cotesford  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  William  de 
Audele,  delivering  to  Joan  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
the  said  William  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in 
his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  premises  jointly  with  the  said 
Joan,  and  that  they  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

To  the  same.  Order  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  fourth  part  of 
the  manor  of  Chalgrave  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of 
William  de  Audele,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
said  William  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  fourth  part  of  another  than  the 
king. 

To  Richard  de  W^ydeville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.  Order 
not  to  meddle  further  with  a  toft  and  13  acres  of  land  and  meadow 
in  Welde  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  William  de  Audele, 
delivering  to  Joan  late  his  Avife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
said  Wilham  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  premises  jointly  with  the  said  Joan 
in  fee  tail  of  others  than  the  king,  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  William 
de  Stafford  to  the  said  William  [and  Joan]  and  to  the  heirs  of  their 
bodies. 


40    EDWARD    III. 


215 


1366.  Membrane  30 — conl. 

Feb.  8.  To  Richard  do  Wydevillc  escheator  in  Norhaiuptonshire.     Order  to 

Westminster,  cause  John  Malore  of  Wyncwyk  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage  and 
5  acres  of  land  in  Wyne\\yk  which  were  held  by  Alan  Wryght  of  Wyne- 
■wyk  outla\\ed  for  felony  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  premises  have  been  in  his  hand 
a  year  and  a  day  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  that  the  said  Alan  held 
the  same  of  the  said  John,  and  that  the  escheator  has  had  the  year 
and  a  day  and  the  Maste  thereof,  and  ought  to  answer  to  the  king  for 
the  same. 

Feb.  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  Stafford.     Order  to  cause  Thomas  Buffry  to  have 

Westminster,  seisin  of  two  messuages  and  two  virgates  of  land,  and  Warin  de  Penne 
of  one  messuage,  8  acres  and  the  moiety  of  one  virgate  of  land  in 
Netherpenne,  held  by  William  son'  of  Hugh  de  Penne  outlawed  for 
felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by 
the  sheriff,  that  three  messuages,  two  virgates,  8  acres  and  the  moiety 
of  one  virgate  of  land  there  held  by  the  said  William  have  been  in 
his  hand  a  year  and  a  day,  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  that  the  said 
William  held  the  premises  as  aforesaid  of  the  said  Thomas  and  Warin 
respectively,  and  that  John  de  Beverlee  has  had  the  year  and  a  day 
and  the  waste  thereof,  and  ought  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  same. 

Jan.  28.  To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Suffolk.     Order  to  take  of  Mary 

Westminster,  who  was  wife  of  Robert  de  Bernham  [tenant]  in  chief  an  oath  that 
she  M  ill  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign  her  dower 
of  the  lands  of  her  said  husband  which  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  his 
death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  sending  the  assignment 
under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery  as  usual. 

Membrane  29. 

Jan.  29.  To  the  bailifTs  of  the  city  of  Canterbury.     Order  to  view  a  bill 

Westminster,  sealed  with  the  seal  of  Peter  Reade  collector  of  the  custom  in  the 
port  of  Dovorre  in  the  possession  of  Nicholas  Amannat  merchant  of 
Florence,  and  if  assured  that  the  said  Nicholas  has  paid  to  the  said 
collector  the  custom  due  upon  certain  silk  cloths  the  price  whereof 
amounts  to  1301.,  to  stay  altogether  their  demand  upon  him  for 
a  second  payment  of  the  custom  in  the  said  city,  restoring  anything 
of  him  taken  in  name  of  pledge  for  the  same,  or  to  be  before  the  king 
in  chancery  in  the  octaves  of  the  Purification  next  under  a  pain  of 
201.  to  shew  cause  wherefore  they  have  not  obeyed  the  king's  com- 
mand ;  as  the  said  silk  packed  in  one  fardel  was  bought  by  the  said 
Nicholas  in  parts  over  sea  to  the  kins's  use,  and  though  Nicholas  at 
the  unlading  thereof  paid  the  said  collector  43.s.  4:d.  for  the  custom, 
as  may  appear  by  the  said  bill,  the  said  bailiffs  are  demanding  custom 
a  second  time  for  the  same  in  its  passage  through  the  said  city  to 
the  king,  and  have  taken  a  sum  of  gold  in  name  of  pledge,  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  the  complaint  of  the  said  Nicholas,  praying  for 
remedy.  By  C. 

The  like  to  the  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Rochester,  and  to  the  bailiffs 
of  the  town  of  Dertford. 

Membrane  28. 

Feb.  2.  To  the  sheriff  of  Worcester.     Order,  of  the  king's  favour,  to  restore 

Westminster,  to  Thomas  Hugges  of  Upton  Snodesbury  clerk,  unless  he  was  a  fugitive, 

his  lands,  goods  and  chattels  taken  by  the  sheriff  into  the  king's  hand  ; 


216 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1366.  Membrane  28 — cont. 

as  the  said  Thomas  was  lately  convicted  before  Thomas  de  Belle 
Campo  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  Worcestershire, 
of  feloniously  breaking  the  house  of  Thomas  de  Yevele  rector  of 
Upton  and  taking  and  carrying  away  his  goods  and  chattels  to  the 
value  of  90Z.,  and  after  at  the  request  of  Reynold  late  bishop  of 
Worcester  was  to  him  delivered  by  the  said  justices  according  to  the 
benefit  of  clergy,  and  has  before  William  now  bishop  of  Worcester 
lawfully  purged  his  innocence,  as  the  bishop  has  signified  to  the  king. 

Feb.  8.  To    the    bailiffs    of    John    duke    of    Lancastre    of   the   honour  of 

Westminster.  Richemund  in  Noriiolk.  Order  to  stay  altogether  their  distraints  or 
usurpations  made  upon  the  king's  possession  Avhile  two  thirds  of  the 
manor  of  Redenhale  were  in  his  hand,  in  order  to  have  the  wardship 
thereof,  or  the  issues  or  profits,  or  any  debts  thereof  due  before  the 
death  of  Edward  de  Monte  Acuto  tenant  in  chief,  releasing  any 
distraints  therein  made,  and  suffering  Eleanor  who  was  wife  of  John 
de  Wyngefeld  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent  freely  to  have  and 
hold  the  said  two  thirds  without  rendering  aught  to  the  said  duke's 
use,  and  to  be  in  chancery  in  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next  to  answer 
for  their  contempt  herein,  and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court 
shall  determine,  bringing  this  writ ;  as  on  11  January  in  the  35th  year  of 
his  reign  the  king  by  letters  patent  committed  to  the  said  Eleanor  the 
wardship  of  two  thirds  of  the  said  manor,  which  are  in  the  king's 
hand  by  the  said  Edward's  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his 
heir,  with  the  issues  and  profits  etc.  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said 
heir,  rendering  to  the  king  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions 
9Z.  25.  4(/.  a  year  at  which  the  same  are  extended  and  17s.  Sc?.  increase  ; 
and  now  on  behalf  of  the  said  Eleanor  the  king  has  learned  that  the  said 
bailiffs  are  unlawfully  distraining  her  in  the  premises  so  held  by  the 
king's  grant  for  payment  of  the  said  issues  and  profits  to  the  duke's 
use,  pretending  that  the  said  manor  is  held  of  the  duke  and  that  the 
wardship  thereof  ought  to  pertain  to  the  duke  during  the  said  heir'a 
nonage,  whereupon  she  has  prayed  for  remedy  as  well  for  the  king  as 
for  herself  ;  and  it  is  found  by  divers  inquisitions,  taken  at  the 
king's  command,  that  the  manor  is  held  of  the  king,  and  so  the 
wardship  thereof  pertains  to  the  king  and  to  none  other,  and  though 
the  same  were  not  held  of  him,  yet  the  wardship  would  remain  to  the 
king  by  reason  of  other  lands  of  the  said  Edward  held  in  chief  at  his 
death  ;  and  if  such  distraints  and  usurpations  upon  the  king's  possession 
were  to  be  endured  it  would  tend  to  the  king's  prejudice  and  to  bring 
his  prerogative  to  nought.  By  C. 

Feb.  8.  To  Wilham  Strete  the  king's  butler  or  to  his  representative  in  the 

Westminster,  port  of  Suthampton.  Order  to  deliver  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of 
Kings  Beaulieu  one  tun  of  wine  of  the  king's  right  prise  in  that  port 
for  this  year,  according  to  a  charter  of  King  Henry  III  giving  to 
the  said  abbot  and  convent  one  such  tun  every  year  between 
Christmas  and  the  Purification  towards  the  celebration  of  masses 
in  their  church,  and  as  they  and  their  predecessors  have  been  used 
to  have  the  same. 


Feb.  11.         To  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk.     Order  to  cause  the  abbot  of  St.  Benet 

Westminster.  Hulme  to  have  seisin  of  the  moiety  of  a  third  part  of  the  manor  of 

Scothowe,  held  by  Stephen  de  Neuton  outlawed  for  felony  it  is  said  ; 

as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  sheriff,  that  the 


40  EDWARD  TTF. 


217 


13()().  Membrane  28 — cont. 

said  moiety  has  been  in  liis  hand  a  year  and  a  day  and  is  yet  in  his 
hand,  that  the  said  Steplien  held  the  same  of  the  said  abbot,  and 
that  Thomas  de  Sancto  Omero  late  sheriff  had  the  year  and  a  day, 
but  not  the  waste  thereof  because  the  said  moiety  is  bare  land  and 
might  not  be  wasted,  and  ought  to  answer  for  the  same  to  the  king  if 
not  yet  contented. 

Feb.  8.  To  John  de  Bekynton  escheator  in  Somerset.     Order  to  remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage,  40  acres 
of  land,  6  acres  of  meadow,  18  acres  of  pasture  and  6  acres  of  wood  in 
Brocton,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  Cicely  de  la  Lynde  at  her 
death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  nor  of  any  other  in  her 
demesne  as  of  fee,  for  that  one  week  before  her  death  she  with  John 
Lovel  then  her  husband  demised  the  premises  to  Roger  de  Stanlegh 
vicar  of  Gary  and  Walter  de  Compton  chaplain,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
and  that  the  same  are  held  by  knight  service  of  the  heir  of  Nicholas 
de  Seymore  tenant  in  chief,  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship. 

Feb.  13.  To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Essex.  Order  to  take  the 
Westminster,  fealty  of  John  son  and  heir  of  John  Boys,  tenant  by  knight  service 
of  the  king  as  of  the  honour  of  Peverel  which  is  in  the  king's  hand, 
according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  cause  him  to  have 
seisin  of  the  lands  of  his  said  father  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his 
death  ;  as  John  the  son  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and 
the  king  has  respited  his  homage  until  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next. 

Feb.  10.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  York  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 
Westminster,  of  John  de  Frokelton,  who  has  no  lands  in  the  county. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  York  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 
of  Simon  de  Heslarton,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Feb.  16.  To  William  de  Otteford  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.  Order  to 
Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand  and  to  deliver  up  lOZ.  of  Agnes  Helle  ;  as 
the  king  lately  ordered  the  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause 
wherefore  the  money  was  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  he  certified 
that  a  jury  presented  before  him  that  Robert  vicar  of  Neuport  Paynel 
and  Hugh  Neweman  found  101.  hidden  in  an  earthen  pot  in  a  house 
of  the  said  Hugh  wherein  the  said  Agnes  dwelt,  that  they  disposed 
of  the  same  towards  the  fabric  of  the  church,  and  after  the  said 
Agnes  claiming  the  money  spoke  against  the  said  Robert  and  Hugh, 
and  therefore  he  took  the  same  into  the  king's  hand  ;  and  the  king 
considers  that  return  insufficient,  and  the  taking  thereof  into  his 
hand. 


Membrane  27. 

Feb.  8.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order,  upon 

Westminster,  the  petition  of  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Essex  and  Hertford- 
shire, to  view  an  account  of  the  said  Roger,  before  them  rendered,  and 
if  assured  that  he  delivered  to  Richard  Punchardon  two  thirds  of 
the  lands  which  were  of  John  de  Benstede  with  the  issues  and  profits 
thereof  taken  since  the  said  John's  death,  that  the  said  Richard  is 
therewith  charged  towards  the  king  in  his  farm  of  the  wardship  of 


218 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


136G. 


Membrane  27 — cont. 


the  said  lands,  and  that  the  third  part  does  not  exceed  151.  12s.  O^d. 
according  to  the  extent  thereof  made,  to  allow  the  said  Roger  201.  in 
his  account  at  the  exchequer  as  well  in  the  issues  of  the  said  third 
part  as  in  other  issues  of  his  bailiwick  ;  as  lately  at  the  suit  of  Parnell 
who  was  wife  of  John  de  Benstede  the  king's  tenant,  alleging  that 
she  mainperned  toward  the  said  Roger  to  answer  for  24Z.  to  the  king's 
use  for  the  issues  of  certain  lands  of  the  said  John  by  her  occupied  after 
his  death,  and  that  for  about  one  year  after  his  death  she  had  nothing 
for  her  dower  and  for  maintenance  of  the  said  John's  heir  or  her  other 
children,  and  praying  the  king  for  recompense,  the  king  granted 
her  20/.  for  maintenance  for  that  time,  and  by  writ  ordered  the  said 
escheator  to  allow  her  that  sum  of  the  241.  aforesaid  ;  and  because  the 
said  escheator  certified  in  chancery  that  he  might  not  allow  aught  to 
the  said  Parnell  over  and  above  15/.  12s.  O^d.,  for  that  by  virtue  of 
the  king's  command  to  him  addressed  he  has  delivered  two  thirds 
of  all  the  lands  of  the  said  John  in  his  bailiwick  with  the  issues 
thereof  since  John's  death  to  the  said  Richard  to  whom  the  king 
committed  the  wardship  thereof,  and  the  issues  and  profits  of  the 
third  part  do  not  exceed  that  sum,  the  king  commanded  the  treasurer 
and  the  barons  to  allow  the  said  escheator  in  his  account  at  the 
exchequer  the  15/.  125.  O^d.  of  the  issues  of  the  said  third  part  and  the 
remaining  4/.  75.  ll^d.  in  other  issues  of  his  bailiwick,  so  that  answer 
should  be  made  for  4/.  the  residue  respited  to  the  said  Parnell  until 
a  set  time  past ;  and  now  of  the  said  Roger's  complaint  the  king  has 
learned  that,  though  according  to  the  extent  before  him  made  all  the 
issues  and  profits  of  the  said  third  part  in  his  bailiwick  do  not  exceed  the 
sum  named,  and  of  other  issues  of  his  bailiwick  he  has  paid  to  the 
said  Parnell  the  4/.  75.  ll|c/.  according  to  the  king's  command  to 
him  addressed,  for  that  by  virtue  of  the  king's  command  he  pre- 
viously delivered  to  the  said  Richard  all  issues  and  profits  of  the  said 
two  thirds  taken  as  well  by  the  said  Parnell  as  by  other  the  occupiers 
thereof  since  the  said  John's  death,  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  have 
put  off  making  him  any  allowance  for  the  money  so  paid  to  the  said 
Parnell,  wherefore  he  has  prayed  for  remedy. 

Feb.  12.  To  the  treasurer  and  the.barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  cause  the 

Westminster,  prior  of  Gisburne  to  have  the  respite  Avhich  the  king  has  given  him  until 
Michaelmas  for  the  issues  of  certain  lands  and  tenements  in  Gisburne, 
Skelton  and  Eseby,  releasing  meanwhile  anj'^  distraint  made  for  that 
cause ;  as  lately  on  the  finding  of  an  inquisition,  taken  of  his  office  before 
William  de  Nessefeld  escheator  in  Yorkshire,  that  John  de  Faucombergh, 
tenant  in  chief  by  knight  service  of  a  piece  of  wood  and  pasture  called 
Swanheved  in  Gisburne  and  of  another  piece  of  land  and  wood  called 
Stayngatside  in  Gisburne  and  Skelton,  without  the  king's  licence 
aliened  the  same  to  the  said  prior  and  his  successors,  and  that 
without  the  king's  hcence  the  said  prior  acquired  of  Wilham  Sweny 
and  appropriated  to  himself  and  his  successors  another  piece  of  land 
in  Gisburne  containing  in  length  40  feet  and  in  breadth  14  feet,  and 
a  messuage  and  one  acre  of  land  in  Eseby,  the  escheator  took  the 
premises  into  the  king's  hand  ;  and  after  at  the  suit  of  the  said  prior, 
appearing  in  chancery  and  alleging  that  the  premises  were  not  aliened 
or  appropriated  in  the  form  aforesaid,  and  praying  for  inquisition 
thereupon  and  that  the  same  might  in  the  mean  time  be  to  him  com- 
mitted, the  king  by  letters  patent  committed  to  him  the  keeping 
thereof,  and  the  issues  from  the  time  they  were  so  taken  so  long  as  they 


40   E1)V\'ARD    III. 


219 


loGG.  Membrane  27 — cont. 

should  remain  in  his  hand,  so  tliat  tlic  said  prior  should  answer  at  the 
exchequer  for  such  issues  if  it  should  be  adjudged  that  they  ought 
to  pertain  to  the  king  ;  and  because  it  is  fiot  yet  debated  whether  the 
premises  were  for  just  cause  taken  into  the  king's  hand  or  no,  the 
king  has  given  the  said  prior  respite  as  aforesaid,  that  in  the  mean 
time  it  may  be  debated  and  determined  whether  the  said  issues  ought 
to  pertain  to  him  or  no. 

Feb.  3,  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Dorset  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

VVestminstor.  of  John  Glaumvylle,   who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Feb.  12.  To  Philip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.  Order  not  to 
Westminster,  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Stoke  Archer  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  Thomas  de  Berkele  of  Cubberle,  delivering  to 
Joan  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Thomas  at  his 
death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  nor  of  any  other  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  held  the  said  manor  in  chief  of 
the  heritage  of  the  said  Joan  by  the  service  of  finding  one  archer  to 
the  king's  war  within  the  four  seas  of  England. 

Jan.  28.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Sussex  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  Thomas  de  Pelham,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Feb.  18.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  cause 

Westminster,  the  sheriffs  of  Salop  and  Stafford,  as  well  for  time  past  as  for  time 
to  come,  to  have  allowance  year  by  year  in  their  accounts  at  the 
exchequer  of  lOZ.  of  yearly  rent  granted  by  the  king  to  Roger  de  Mortuo 
Mari  late  earl  of  March  tenant  in  chief  in  England  and  Wales  and 
to  his  heirs  by  the  name  of  earl  of  March,  the  sheriff  of  Salop  of  IOO5. 
and  the  sheriff  of  Stafford  of  IOO5.,  from  Monday  the  feast  of  St.  Jerome 
in  the  38th  year  of  the  reign  when  by  letters  of  acquittance  of 
Philippa  who  \\'as  the  said  earl's  wife  the  treasurer  and  the  barons 
were  assured  that  she  was  thereof  contented  until  the  lawful  age  of 
Edmund  son  and  heir  of  the  said  earl ;  as  on  10  February  in  the  35th 
year  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  to  Isabel  his  daughter  the 
"^•ardship  of  two  thirds  of  the  said  earl's  lands,  which  are  in  his  hand 
by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  Edmund,  until  the  lawful  age 
of  the  said  heir  without  rendering  aught  to  the  king,  and  in  those 
two  thirds  are  comprised  the  said  100.S.  of  rent  of  the  issues  of  Salop 
and  100s.  of  the  issues  of  Staffordshire ;  and  after  on  Monday 
aforesaid  by  her  letters  patent,  confirmed  by  letters  patent  of  the 
king,  the  said  Isabel  granted  to  the  said  Philippa  the  said  rents,  and 
certain  other  lands  and  tenements  of  the  said  earl  to  her  committed 
as  aforesaid,  to  hold  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  heir. 

March  29.        To  Richard  de  Sutton  escheator  in  Lancashire.     Order  to  cause 

Windsor.      William  son  and  heir  of  William  de  Lancastre  tenant  in  chief  to  have 

seisin  of  the  lands  of  his  said  father  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his 

death  ;    as  he  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king 

has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [26920.] 

To  Wilham  de  Raygate  escheator  in  Yorkshire,  Northumberland, 
Cumberland  and  Westmorland.  Like  order ;  as  William  son  of 
Wilham  de  Lancastre  has  proved  his  age  before  Richard  de  Sutton. 

By  p.s.  (the  same  writ). 


220 


CALENDAR  OP  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366.  Membrane  26. 

April  26.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln  for  the  time  being.  Order  to  pay  to  Richard 
Westminster.  Torperle  the  arrears  of  \2d.  a  day,  and  the  same  daily  sum  hence- 
forward according  to  the  king's  letters  patent,  taking  his  acquittance  ; 
as  for  good  service  as  well  to  the  king  as  to  Isabel  his  daughter  the 
king  granted  the  said  Richard  of  the  issues  of  that  county  l\d.  a  day 
for  life  or  until  other  order  should  be  taken  for  his  estate,  and  after 
on  15  August  last  for  his  service  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted 
him  4Jrf.  a  day  to  be  taken  as  aforesaid  over  and  above  the  former 
sum. 

Et  erat  patens. 


April  18.  To  John  de  Bekynton  escheator  in  Somerset.  Order  to  cause  John 
Westminster,  de  Croukerne  and  Cicely  his  wife,  daughter  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of 
Richard  Childehey  and  third  daughter  and  one  of  the  heirs  of  Cicely 
who  was  wife  of  Stephen  Laundy,  to  have  seisin  of  the  purparty  of 
the  said  Cicely  wife  of  John  of  the  hamlet  of  Bikenhull,  kept  in  the 
king's  hand  by  reason  of  her  nonage  ;  as  lately  on  the  finding  of  an 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  Cicely  wife  of  Stephen  Laundy 
at  her  death  held  the  said  hamlet  to  her  and  the  heirs  of  her  body  in 
chief  by  the  service  of  the  eleventh  part  of  one  knight's  fee,  that 
Maud  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  de  Dodyngton  one  daughter,  Alice 
wife  of  Thomas  Orchard  a  second  daughter,  and  the  said  Cicely  daughter 
of  Joan  the  third  daughter  are  her  next  heirs,  and  that  the  said  Maud 
and  Alice  were  of  full  age  and  Cicely  daughter  of  Joan  within  age, 
tlie  king  respited  the  homages  as  well  of  the  said  Thomas  [Orchard] 
by  reason  of  issue  between  him  and  the  said  Alice  begotten  as  of  the 
said  Maud,  and  commanded  the  escheator  to  make  a  partition  of  the 
said  hamlet  into  three  equal  parts,  and  to  cause  the  said  Thomas  and 
Alice  and  the  said  Maud  to  have  seisin  of  their  respective  purparties, 
keeping  in  the  king's  hand  until  further  order  the  purparty  of  the 
said  Cicely  daughter  of  Joan  ;  and  now  the  said  Cicely  daughter  of 
Joan,  whom  the  said  John  with  the  king's  licence  has  taken  to  wife, 
has  proved  her  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  the 
fealty  of  the  said  John. 

May  1.  To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Wiltes.     Order  not  to  trouble 

Westminster.  Walter  Dansey,  brother  and  heir  of  William  Danseye  brother  and  heir 
of  John  Danseye  tenant  in  chief,  for  his  homage  and  fealty,  releasing 
any  distraint  upon  him  made  for  that  cause  ;  as  the  said  Walter  has 
done  homage  and  fealty  for  the  lands  of  the  said  John,  which  came  to 
the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said 
William,  who  died  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship. 

By  p.s.  [26970.] 
The  hke  to  Phihp  de  Luttele  escheator  in  Herefordshire. 

April  24.  To  John  de  Bekynton  escheator  in  Somerset.  Order  not  to  meddle 
Westminster,  further  wdth  the  purparty  of  Christina  -wife  of  John  de  Croukerne  of 
the  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Dourburgh,  10s.  4o?.  of  rent  in  Blecche- 
well,  6  marks  of  rent  of  the  manor  of  Honyspill,  325.  of  rent  in 
Bedmeston,  65.  8d.  of  rent  in  Cosynton  and  3s.  of  rent  in  Catecote, 
kept  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  Christina  ; 
as  lately  on  the  finding  of  an  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
Cicely  who  was  wife  of  Stephen  Laundy  at  her  death  held  the 
premises  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee  of  others  than  the  king,  and   tha^ 


40  EDWARD    III. 


221 


1366.  Membrane  26 — cont. 

Alice  wife  of  Thomas  Orchard  and  Maud  wife  of  John  Wyvelescombe 
of  full  age,  and  the  said  Christina  a  minor  and  in  the  king's  wardship 
by  reason  of  other  lands  of  her  heritage,  are  cousins  and  next  heirs  of 
the  said  Cicely,  the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  make  a  partition 
of  the  premises  into  three  equal  parts,  to  keep  the  purparty  of  the 
said  Christina  in  the  king's  hand  until  further  order,  and  not  to 
meddle  further  with  the  purparties  of  the  said  Alice  and  Maud;  and 
the  said  Christina  has  now  proved  her  age  before  the  escheator. 

May  1,  To  William  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Northumberland.     Order  to 

Westminster,  cause  Henry  de  la  Vale,  son  of  William  de  la  Vale  knight  and  cousin 
and  heir  of  Robert  de  la  Vale  tenant  in  chief,  to  have  seisin  of  the 
lands  of  the  said  Robert  his  grandfather,  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  his  death  ;  as  the  said  Henry  has  proved  his  age  before  the 
escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty. 

By  p.s.  [26972.] 

April  20.         Order  to  the  sheriflf  of  Gloucester  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Geoffrey  Ailwyne,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Membrane  25. 

May  1.  To  the  scholars  of  the  Kings  Hall  Cantebrigge.      Writ  de  intendendo 

Westminster,  in  favour  of  Nicholas  de  Roos  the  king's  clerk,   whom   by  letters 
patent  he  has  appointed  their  warden  during  pleasure. 
Et  erat  patens. 

May  12.  To  John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire.     Order  to  cause 

Westminster.  Roger  Loveday  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage  and  4  acres  of  land  in 
Great  Wilburgham  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Henry 
de  Filby,  saving  to  the  king  the  issues  thereof  taken  to  be  levied  to 
his  use  of  those  lawfully  chargeable  with  the  same  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  at  his  command  by  William  de  Otteford 
late  escheator,  that  the  said  Henry,  who  died  on  Thursday  after  the 
Invention  of  Holy  Cross  in  the  23rd  year  of  the  reign,  at  his  death  held 
the  premises  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  in  chief  by  grand  serjeanty,  that 
answer  is  made  to  the  king  by  the  escheators  for  the  time  being  for  the 
issues  and  profits  thereof  since  Henry's  death  by  reason  of  the  nonage 
of  the  said  Roger  his  cousin  and  heir,  and  that  the  said  Roger  is  now 
of  full  age ;  and  the  king  has  taken  the  homage  and  fealty  of  Roger, 
and  has  pardoned  him  whatever  pertains  to  the  king  for  his  marriage, 
as  he  was  not  married  while  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardskip. 

By  p.s.  [26988.] 


May  16.  To  Roger  de  Wolf  ret  on  escheator  in  Norffolk.  Order  to  assign  to 
Westminster.  Thomas  de  la  Ryvere  knight  and  Beatrice  his  wife,  late  the  wife  of 
Thomas  de  Sancto  Omero  tenant  in  chief,  her  dower  of  the  lands  of 
her  said  late  husband  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death,  in 
presence  as  well  of  Thomas  Cheyne  guardian  of  the  lands  of  the 
purparty  of  Elizabeth  one  of  the  daughters  and  heirs  of  the  deceased, 
a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  or  of  his  attorney,  as  of  William  de 
Hoo  knight  and  Alice  his  wife  the  other  daughter  and  heir,  if  they 
will  attend,  sending  the  assignment  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 


222 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1366.  Membrane  25 — cont. 

April  26.  To  Robert  de  Thorpe  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  assize  in  Suffoll^. 
Westminster  Order  to  view  the  record  and  process  as  well  touching  the  verdict  of  an 
assize  of  novel  disseisin  by  William  Neve  of  Wetynge  and  Joan  his  wife 
before  them  arraigned  against  David  de  Strabolgi  earl  of  Athole  and 
others  in  the  writ  named  as  touching  other  the  matters  following,  and  if 
the  facts  stated  by  the  said  plaintiffs  are  true,  to  proceed  to  render 
judgment  thereupon  and  to  do  justice  to  the  parties,  the  allegation  of 
the  said  defendants  that  the  manor  of  Kentwell  is  in  the  king's  hand 
notwithstanding,  saving  always  the  king's  right  if  any  ;  as  lately  at 
the  suit  of  the  said  William  and  Joan,  alleging  that  they  arraigned 
the  assize  aforesaid  before  the  said  justices  concerning  tenements  in 
Melford,  Alfton,  Stanstede  and  Shymplyng,  complaining  that  the 
said  Joan  was  disseised  of  the  said  manor  except  12  acres  of  land 
and  4L  of  rent  therein,  and  that  by  reason  of  the  allegation  aforesaid 
the  said  justices  put  off  proceeding  to  take  that  assize,  and  praying 
that  the  king  would  order  them  so  to  do,  the  king  commanded  the 
said  justices  to  view  the  record  and  process  before  them  had,  and 
if  such  had  been  the  proceedings,  to  proceed  to  take  the  assize  and 
do  justice  to  the  parties  that  allegation  notwithstanding,  so  that  they 
should  not  proceed  to  render  judgment  without  advising  the  king  ; 
and  now  the  said  William  and  Joan  have  petitioned  the  king  to  order 
them  to  proceed  to  render  judgment  thereupon,  as  by  verdict  of  the 
said  assize  it  is  found  that  the  said  earl  unlawfully  and  without  a 
judgment  disseised  the  said  Joan  of  the  said  manor,  the  land  and 
rent  aforesaid  excepted.  By  C. 

May  27.  To  the  baihffs  of  the  town  of  Burnam  Ware  co.  Essex.  Order, 
Westminster,  upon  the  petition  of  William  Walpole  of  Burnam  Ware,  to  take  of  him 
security  that  he  will  bring  to  the  city  of  London  and  not  elsewhere 
15  sarplers  of  wool  and  400  woolfells,  to  make  an  indenture  with  him 
containing  the  number  thereof,  and  to  suffer  him  by  a  mainprise  to 
lade  the  same  in  ships  at  Burnam  Ware  and  take  tlaem  by  water  to 
the  said  city  according  to  the  ordinance  of  the  staple,  sending  to  the 
king  in  chancery  under  their  seal  by  a  trusty  person  one  part  of  the 
said  indenture  together  with  the  names  of  the  mainpernors  ;  as  the 
said  William  has  shewn  that  he  purposes  to  bring  the  said  wool  and 
woolfells  from  Burnamware  to  London  by  the  river  Thames,  there  to 
be  Mcighed  and  sold  in  the  staple  of  Westminster  to  his  advantage, 
praying  the  king's  licence  so  to  do. 

Membrane  24. 

May  10.  To  Richard  de  Sutton  escheator  in  Lancashire.  Order  not  to 
Westminstur.  meddle  further  with  the  manor,  town  and  advowson  of  Cokerham, 
restoring  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Leycestre  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator  of  his 
office,  that  one  of  the  ancestors  of  the  lord  of  Goucy  that  now  is  gave 
the  premises  to  the  said  abbot  and  convent  to  find  in  the  church  of 
Cokerham  four  chaplains,  namely  three  canons  and  one  secular 
chaplain,  and  in  the  chapel  of  EUale  one  secular  chaplain  to  celebrate 
day  by  day,  which  chantries  are  withdrawn  for  30  years  past,  and 
that  the  said  manor  and  town  are  held  of  the  manor  of  Wyi'esdale 
which  was  of  William  de  Coucy  and  is  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason 
of  his  forfeiture  ;  and  the  now  abbot  and  the  convent  have  petitioned 
the  king  for  remedy,  as  by  colour  of  the  said  inquisition  the  escheator 


40  EDWARD  III. 


223 


lobo.  ^  Memhrane  24— cwf. 

is  purposing  to  seise  ilic  premises  into  tlio  king's  hand,  whereas  long 
before  the  statute  of  mortmain  Sir  WlHiam  do  Lancastre  by  charter 
gave  the  manor,  town  and  advowson  aforesaid  to  tlie  then  abbot  and 
convent  in  almoin  without  making  any  mention  of  finding  chantries 
or  aught  else,  as  the  king  has  seen  in  the  said  cliarter  before  liim 
produced  in  chancery  ;  and  after  viewing  the  said  charter,  and  finding 
by  inspection  of  the  rolls  of  chancery  that  all  the  lands  which  were 
of  the  heritage  of  Ingelram  now  lord  of  Coucy  are  fully  restored, 
it  seems  to  the  council  that  no  right  to  the  premises  accrues  to  the 
king  by  colour  of  the  inquisition  aforesaid. 

April  26.  To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Maud 
Westminster,  w ho  Mas  wife  of  Edmund  de  Cretyng,  to  view  the  record  and  process 
before  them  had  concerning  two  thirds  of  the  manor  of  Great 
Stokton,  two  acres  of  land  tlierein  and  the  advowson  of  the  church 
excepted,  and  if  the  proceedings  have  been  as  stated  in  the  said 
petition,  to  proceed  in  the  plea  and  do  justice  to  the  parties,  so  that 
they  proceed  not  to  the  rendering  of  judgment  without  advising  the 
Idng  ;  as  the  said  Maud  has  shewn  the  Idng  that  she  is  suing  for  the 
premises  before  the  said  justices  against  John  de  Enepol,  that  he  in 
pleading  has  alleged  that  the  said  manor  is  in  the  king's  hand,  which 
she  has  not  gainsaid,  whereby  she  does  not  admit  that  he  ought  not 
without  the  king  to  answer,  and  that  by  colour  thereof  the  justices 
have  hitherto  deferred  to  proceed  in  the  plea  which  is  begun.      By  C. 

May  10.  To  John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.     Order  to  remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  third  part  of  the 
lands  of  Thomas  de  Eournyvall  knight  tenant  in  chief  which  the  king 
commanded  to  be  kept  in  his  hand  for  dower  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  the 
said  Thomas,  delivering  to  William  de  Foumyvall  brother  and  heir  of 
Thomas  any  issues  thereof  taken  since  22  October  last ;  as  on  25  May  in 
the  39th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  took  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the 
said  William,  and  commanded  liverj^  to  be  given  him  of  the  lands  of  his 
said  brother,  saving  to  the  said  Joan  dower  to  be  assigned  her  ;  and 
after  on  22  October  last  the  king  assigned  her  in  dower  certain  of  her 
said  husband's  lands  in  Yorkshire  and  Staffordshire,  and  commanded 
livery  thereof  to  be  given  her  ;  and  now  by  complaint  of  the  said 
William  the  king  has  learned  that,  though  the  lands  assigned  in  dower 
to  the  said  Joan  are  to  her  delivered,  the  escheator  is  yet  keeping  for  her 
dower  the  third  part  of  all  the  lands  of  Thomas  in  his  bailiwick  as 
though  she  were  not  dowered,  wherefore  he  has  prayed  for  remedy. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Wiltes. 

May  5.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  stay 

Westminster,  their  demand  made  by  exchequer  summons  upon  Peter  de  Brewes 
and  Thomas  Moryeux  for  200L,  causing  them  to  be  thereof  discharged, 
and  their  recognisance  on  the  rolls  of  the  exchequer  to  be  cancelled  ; 
as  on  11  August  in  the  36th  year  of  the  reign  they  made  in  chancery 
a  joint  and  several  recognisance  to  the  king  for  that  sum  payable  at 
a  day  now  past,  and  after  the  king  sent  the  same  to  the  exchequer 
among  the  estreats  of  that  year  to  levy  the  money  to  his  use  ;  and 
now  Helemyngus  Leget  receiver  of  his  chamber  [has  witnessed]  in 
chancery  that  the  king  has  in  his  chamber  been  contented  of  that 
sum  by  the  hands  of  the  said  receiver,  wherefore  the  said  recognisance 
is  cancelled  on  the  rolls  of  chancery. 


224 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366,  Membrane  24 — cont. 

May  17.  To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.  Order,  for  particular  causes  shewn 
Wesfminster.  before  the  king  and  council,  to  stay  altogether  a  process  pending  before 
them  touching  an  attaint  to  convict  the  jurors  by  whom  an  inquisition 
was  lately  summoned  and  taken  between  the  king  and  Theobald  Gorges 
knight  concerning  the  right  of  presentation  to  the  vicarage  of 
Stourmenstre  Mareschall.  By  C. 

Membrane  23. 

May  20.  To  Ralph  de  Hastynges,  executor  of  Robert  de  Herle.  Order  to 
Westminster,  have  at  the  exchequer  in  the  octaves  of  Trinity  next  the  SQL  which 
the  said  Robert  while  the  king's  admiral  received  of  the  goods  of 
certain  men  of  Spain  plundered  at  sea,  and  which  are  in  the  said  Ralph's 
keeping,  to  be  delivered  to  the  treasurer  and  the  chamberlains  and 
by  them  dealt  with  as  the  king  of  his  counsel  shall  appoint.         By  C. 

May  20.  To  Ralph  de  Neville  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hear 
Westmi  aster,  and  determine  a  trespass  committed  in  Northumberland  by  John  de 
Fenwyk  and  others  against  William  de  Acton.  Order  to  proceed 
in  the  plea  pending  before  them  thereupon  between  the  said  William 
and  John  and  to  do  justice  to  the  parties,  the  king's  letters  of 
protection  granted  to  the  said  John  notwithstanding ;  as  lately 
believing  that  he  was  abiding  in  Scotland  on  the  king's  service  in  the 
company  of  Alan  de  Heton  keeper  of  the  town  of  Berewic  upon  Twede, 
the  king  by  letters  patents  took  the  said  John,  his  men,  lands, 
property,  rents  and  possessions  into  his  protection  until  Michaelmas 
next,  willing  that  he  should  meanAvhile  be  quit  of  certain  pleas  and 
plaints  therein  contained  ;  but  the  king  has  revoked  the  said  pro- 
tection because  the  said  John  is  not  on  his  service  save  by  times, 
but  is  attending  to  other  business  at  his  own  pleasure,  and  only 
obtained  the  same  fraudulently  to  debar  others  from  actions  which 
they  have  against  him,  to  the  scandal  of  the  king  and  deception  of 
his  court,  as  the  king  has  learned  by  credible  witness.  By  C. 

May  23.  To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Suffolk.  Order  to  keep  in  the 
WestrairiHter.  king's  hand  the  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Kentewell  held  by  Katherine 
Gower  deceased  until  sued  out  of  his  hands  by  those  to  whom  it 
pertains,  but  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further 
with  the  other  moiety  thereof,  12  acres  of  land  and  U.  of  rent 
therein  excepted,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  by  an 
assize  of  novel  disseisin  before  Robert  de  Thorpe  and  his  fellows, 
justices  of  assize  in  Suffolk,  taken  at  the  town  of  St.  Edmund,  William 
Neve  of  Wetyng  and  Joan  his  wife  recovered  their  seisin  of  the  said 
manor  (the  said  land  and  rent  excepted)  against  David  de  Strabolgi 
earl  of  Athole,  as  appears  by  the  record  and  process  of  the  assize  which 
the  king  has  caused  to  come  before  him  in  chancery  ;  and  now  the 
said  William  and  Joan  have  informed  the  king  that,  though  by 
a  writ  tested  by  the  said  Robert  he  ordered  the  sheriff  to  give  them 
seisin  of  the  said  manor  (the  said  land  and  rent  excepted),  the  sheriff 
may  not  deliver  the  premises  to  them  for  that  the  escheator  has  taken 
the  same,  which  is  held  in  chief,  into  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of 
alienations  without  the  king's  licence  made  by  the  said  earl  and  others 
after  the  disseisin  aforesaid,  and  that  nevertheless  the  said  moiety 
thereof,  held  in  chief  by  the  said  Katherine,  which  without  having 
Uvery    of    the    king    the  said  Joan  entered  it  is  said  after  the  said 


40    EDWARD    III. 


225 


1366.  Membrane  23 — cont. 

Katherine's  death  as  licr  sister  and  heir,   is  in   the  king's  hand  as 

the  escheator  has  certified  in  chancery,  praying  that   seisin   may  be 

given    them    at   least   of   the   other   moiety,  the  said  land  and  rent 

excepted.  By  C. 

May  13.  To  John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire.     Order  not  to 

Westminste;-.  meddle  further  a\  ith  a  messuage  and  60  acres  of  land  in  Burwell  taken 
into  the  king's  land  by  the  death  of  Alice  Bcrtelot  of  Burwell  and  by 
reason  of  the  vacancy  of  Rammeseye  abbey,  saving  to  the  king's  use  the 
issues  of  the  said  messuage,  land  and  meadow  {sic)  taken  since  her  d^ath, 
to  be  levied  of  those  lawfully  chargeable  therewith  ;  as  it  is  found  by 
inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  William  de  Otteford 
late  escheator,  that  the  said  Alice  at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that 
county  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  premises  by 
knight  service  of  the  said  abbey  lately  void  and  in  the  king's  hand,  that 
Alice  and  Margaret  daughters  of  John  Bertelot  her  son,  who  at  her 
death  were  within  age,  are  cousins  and  next  heirs  of  the  said  Alice 
and  are  now  of  full  age,  and  that  John  de  Fenstede  and  Maud  his 
wife,  m(  ther  of  the  said  Alice  daughter  of  John  and  of  the  said 
Margaret,  occupied  the  premises  from  the  death  of  the  said  Alice  the 
grandmother,  who  died  on  Tuesday  after  St.  Augustine  in  the  23rd 
year  of  the  reign,  until  12  August  in  the  34th  year,  from  which  day  the 
same  were  in  the  king's  w^ardship  and  answer  was  made  by  the  escheator 
for  the  issues  thereof  ;  and  at  another  time  the  king  has  taken  the 
fealty  of  Richard  now  abbot  of  Rammeseye  and  has  restored  to  him 
the  temporalities  of  the  said  abbey.  Because  the  said  Alice  daughter 
of  John  and  the  said  Margaret,  who  were  not  married  at  their  said 
grandmother's  death,  have  paid  the  king  60s.  in  the  hanaper  of  ch<an- 
eery  for  their  marriages,  the  king  has  granted  them  that  they  may 
marry  whom  they  will. 

May  20.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order,  upon 

Westminster,  the  petition  of  Thomas  de  More,  to  allow  him  in  his  farm  of  the  lands 
of  Lawrence  de  Pageham  tenant  in  chief  101.  for  his  expenses  in 
regard  to  the  maintenance  of  the  heir  of  the  said  LawTcnce  as  well  for 
time  past  as  henceforward  ixntil  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  heir,  dis- 
charging him  thereof  ;  as  on  30  May  in  the  36th  year  of  his  reign  by 
letters  patent  the  king  committed  to  the  said  Thomas  the  wardship 
of  the  lands  aforesaid,  which  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of 
the  said  LawTence  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  heir,  to 
hold  until  his  lawful  age,  rendering  at  the  exchequer  100s.  a  year  at 
Michaelmap  and  Easter  by  even  portions  ;  and  now  the  said  Thomas 
has  shewn  the  king  that  the  said  heir  has  been  in  his  wardship  from 
the  aforesaid  date  and  yet  is  at  his  charge  in  meat  and  raiment, 
praying  recompense  for  his  maintenance.  By  K.  and  C. 

June  4.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton.     Order  upon  the  petition  of  the 

Westminster,  commons  of  that  county,  if  there  used  of  old  time  to  be  four  coroners 
therein,  and  are  now  but  two,  to  cause  other  two  to  be  elected. 
The  hke  to  the  sheriff  of  Salop. 


Membrane  22. 

May  16.  To  John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Sussex.     Order  to  remove  the  king's 

Westminster,  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage,  a  garden  and 

E   15 


226  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366.  Membrane  22 — cont. 

12  acres  of  land  which  were  of  Wilham  Stourmy  in  Westychenore, 
delivering  to  Juliana  who  was  wife  of  the  said  William  any  issues 
thereof  taken  since  his  death  ;  as  lately  the  king  ordered  the 
escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  the  premises 
were  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  he  returned  that  he 
so  took  no  lands  of  the  said  William,  but  that  William  de  Hatton  late 
escheator  took  the  premises  into  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  a  trespass 
for  which  the  said  William  Stourmy  was  outlawed  at  the  suit  of 
William  Yonge,  namely  on  Thursday  before  St.  Philip  and  St.  James 
in  the  32nd  year  of  the  reign,  as  was  found  by  inquisition  taken  by 
the  late  escheator,  and  for  that  cause  and  none  other  they  are  in  the 
king's  hand  ;  and  after  the  said  Juhana  informed  the  king  that  her 
said  husband  is  dead,  and  that  with  him  she  was  jointly  enfeoffed  of 
the  premises  by  the  gift  of  Baldwin  late  parson  of  Estychenore  and 
Nicholas  late  parson  of  Westychenore  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their 
bodies,  praying  that  the  king's  hand  should  be  removed,  wherefore 
the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  make  inquisition  touching  the 
circumstances  ;  and  by  inquisition  so  taken  it  is  found  that  William 
Stourmy  died  on  Saturday  after  All  Saints  in  the  38th  year  of  the 
reign,  that  Juliana  was  with  "him  jointly  enfeoffed  as  aforesaid,  and 
that  the  premises  are  held  of  another  than  the  king. 

June  5.  To  Richard  de  Wydeville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.     Order 

Westminster,  to  deliver  to  John  Hamely  and  Joan  his  Avife,  cousin  and  heir  of 
John  de  Plecy  knight,  the  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Burton  and 
18  acres  of  land  with  the  rent  of  six  neifs  in  that  town  which  are  held 
in  chief,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Ida  who  was  wife 
of  the  said  John  de  Plecy,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since 
her  death  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
the  said  Ida  at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  her 
demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  held  the  premises  in  dower  by 
endowment  of  her  husband  of  the  heritage  of  the  said  Joan,  who  is 
of  full  age  ;  and  on  1  October  in  the  36th  year  of  his  reign  the  king 
took  the  fealty  of  the  said  John  Hamely  for  the  lands  of  her  heritage, 
and  commanded  livery  thereof  to  be  given  to  him  and  to  the  said 
Joan, 

June  20.  To  Edward  prince  of  Aquitaine  and  Wales  duke  of  Cornwall  and 
Westminster,  earl  of  Chester,  and  to  his  chamberlain  of  Chester.  Order,  upon  the 
petition  of  Stephen  Warde  of  Lyverpulle  co.  Lancaster,  if  assured  by 
certificate  of  Richard  de  Ayneshargh  mayor  of  Lyverpulle  that  the 
said  Richard  took  to  the  king's  use  his  right  prises  of  wine  of  a  ship 
of  the  said  Stephen  in  the  port  of  Lyverpulle  where  the  said  ship 
first  touched,  to  stay  altogether  the  distraint  upon  the  said  Stephen 
made  by  the  said  chamberlain  for  a  second  payment  of  the  said  prises, 
restoring  to  him  without  delay  anything  taken  for  that  cause  ;  as 
on  6  May  last  the  king's  serjeant  William  Strete,  whom  he  has  made 
his  chief  butler  to  take  all  prises  to  the  king's  use  in  singular  the 
ports  within  the  realm,  deputed  the  said  Richard  to  take  such  prises 
in  the  port  of  Lyverpulle,  and  to  receive  sums  of  money  whatsoever 
heretofore  taken  by  others  for  the  same  cause,  as  in  the 
king's  letters  patent  is  contained ;  and  the  said  Stephen  has 
informed  the  king  that,  though  before  that  day  he  first 
touched  at  that  port  with  the  said  ship  laded  with  wines  at  the 
city    of    Bourdeaux,    unladed    there    certain    tuns    of    wine,    and 


40  EDWARD    III.  227 


■'■'^^^'«  Membrane  22 — cont. 

the  said  Richard  took  prises  as  aforesaid  of  all  wines  in  the  said  ship, 
the  said  chamberlain  is  unlawfully  distraining  him  for  a  second  payment 
to  the  use  of  the  said  earl,  for  that  the  said  Stephen  took  the  same 
ship  to  the  port  of  Pulle  co.  Chester  and  there  unladed  the  residue  ; 
and  it  is  not  lawful  that  any  man  coming  with  a  ship  to  one  place 
within  the  realm  and  there  paying  the  king's  prises  should  elsewhere 
be  compelled  to  pay  the  same  a  second  time. 

Membrane  21. 
June  3.  To   John   de   Bekynton   escheator  in   Dorset.     Order  to   take   of 

Westminster.  Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Keynes  knight  tenant  in  chief  an  oath 
that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  deliver  to 
her  in  dower  the  manor  of  Tarente  Keynes  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  the  said  John  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of 
his  heir  ;  as  the  king  has  assigned  to  her  the  said  manor  with  the 
assent  of  Queen  Philippa,  to  whom  he  has  committed  the  wardship 
of  two  thirds  of  the  said  John's  lands  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said 
heir. 

June  23.         To  the  high  master  of  the  order  of  Sempyngham.       Order,  upon  his 
\A  estminster.  allegiance  and  under  pain  of  forfeiture,  forbidding  him,  and  willing 
him  to  forbid  those  subject  to  him  whatsoever,  by  himself  or  by  others 
to  attempt  aught  which  may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king's  honour 
and  dignity  or  of  his  ordinance,  of  the  jurisdiction  or  office  of  John 
bishop  of  Lincoln   or  of  the  monasteries,  priories,  members  or  persons 
subject  to  the  said  master,  commanding  him  humhly  to  acknowledge 
the  obedience  and  reverence  which  he  is  bound  to  shew  to  his  said 
ordinary,  to  desist  from  the  further  prosecution  of  proceedings  by  him 
begun  without  the  realm,  not  departing  for  that  purpose  to  foreign  parts 
nor  sending  nor  suffering  messengers  or  others  to  be  sent  out  of  the 
realm  without  the  king's  licence,  knowing  of  a  surety  that  if  aught 
be  attempted  to  the  contrary  by  the  said  master  or  by  any  other  the 
king  will  be  so  wroth  with  him  and  his  order  that  they  shall  be  sorry  for 
such  contempt,  and  the  king's  will  is  that  before  the  quinzaine  of  St. 
John  Baptist  the  master  shall  certify  him  and  the  council  by  letters 
patent  of  the  date  when  he  shall  receive  these  presents,  and  of  what- 
soever he  shall  think  fit  to  do  in  that  behalf  ;   as  the  king  desires  the 
peace  of  all  his  lieges,  but  especially  that  no  matter  of  wandering 
abroad  and  idly  spending  the  revenues  to  them  entrusted  be  afforded 
to  men  of  religion  ;   and  lately  for  composing  strife  which  was  aroused 
between  the  said  bishop  on  the  one  part  and  the  said  master,  the 
monasteries,  priories,  brethren  and  sisters  to  him  subject  on  the  other 
part,  the  king  by  deliberation  of  his  council  with  the  assent  of  the 
parties  thought  fit  to  order  that  the  said  master  ought  to  admit  the 
said  bishop  as  ordinary,  at  any  rate  in  places  within  his  diocese,  to 
bless  the  nuns  of  that  order  and  to  the  exercise  of  other  matters 
incumbent  on  his  office  in  regard  to  persons  of  religion  of  the  order 
aforesaid,  suffering  without  resistance  his  jurisdiction  and  the  execu- 
tion of  his  said  office  ;   but  the  king  has  newly  learned,  and  it  is  loudly 
affirmed  by  the  voice  of  credible  persons,  that  the  master  feeling  himself 
aggrieved,  as  he  says,  for  that  the  bishop  in  the  exercise  of  his  office, 
proceeding  in  accordance  with  the  king's  said  ordinance  as  he  was 
bound  to  do,  lias  blessed  certain  nuns  of  the  order  and  monastery  of 
Semp3mgham,  howbeit  to  many  wise  men  it  may  seem  that  the  master 


228  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366,  Membrane  21 — cont. 

thereby  has  no  grievance  but  rather  reUef,  has  lodged  divers  provo- 
cations and  appeals,  and  is  purposing  to  prosecute  the  same  without 
the  realm  in  contempt  of  the  king,  to  the  prejudice  of  the  said  bishop's 
office,  and  to  the  impoverishment  of  the  monastery,  subjects  and 
members  aforesaid ;  and  the  king  would  apply  a  timely  remedy 
to  the  evils  likely  to  ensue. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Membrane  20. 
June  20.  To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Norffolk.  Order,  upon  the 
Westminster,  petition  of  Ralph  de  Cromwell  and  Maud  his  wife,  sister  of  William 
Bernak,  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with 
certain  parcels  of  land,  the  rents,  fees  and  advowsons  pertaining  to 
two  thirds  of  the  manors  of  Hedirsete  and  Besthorp  and  of  certain 
lands  in  Wymondham,  Bokenham  and  Denton,  which  are  of  the 
heritage  of  the  said  Maud,  delivering  to  them  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  lately  on  the  finding  of  an  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
two  thirds  of  the  said  manors  and  lands  which  were  of  John  Bemak 
tenant  in  chief,  and  came  to  the  king's  hands  by  his  death  and  by  reason 
of  the  nonage  of  the  said  William,  brother  and  heir  of  John  son  and 
heir  of  the  said  John,  which  William  and  John  the  son  died  within 
age  and  in  the  king's  wardship,  that  the  manor  of  Besthorp  and  the 
said  lands  are  held  in  chief  as  parcel  of  the  barony  of  Tateshale,  the 
manor  of  Hedirsete  of  another  than  the  king,  and  that  the  said  Maud 
is  next  heir  of  her  said  brother  and  of  full  age,  on  4  February  in  the 
35th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  took  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the 
said  Ralph,  and  commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  the  said  two 
thirds  ;  and  now  by  plaint  of  the  said  Ralph  and  Maud  the  king  has 
learned  that,  by  colour  of  an  inquisition  whereby  it  is  found  that 
the  parcels,  rents,  fees  and  advowsons  aforesaid,  which  by  virtue  of 
the  said  restitution  are  delivered  to  the  said  Ralph  and  Maud,  were 
not  contained  in  the  extent  of  the  former  inquisition,  the  escheator 
has  taken  the  same  into  the  king's  hand  and  is  unlawfully  so  detaining 
them  ;  and  in  all  restitutions  by  the  king  made  to  heirs  of  full  age 
as  well  lands  as  fees,  advowsons  and  all  else  to  the  same  pertaining 
in  general  pass  out  of  his  hands  to  the  possession  of  such  heirs, 
whether  extended  or  not. 

May  6.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  John  Trewoef,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

May  12.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  John  Fraunk  of  Suthampton,  who  is  dead. 

May  14.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Warrewyk  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Robert  Holeweye,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

June  22.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Bedford  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Alexander  Durant,  who  is  aged  and  infirm. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Bedford  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
instead  of  Thomas  Nicholas,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

May  12.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton  to  cause  a  verderer  in  the  New 

Westminster.  Forest  to  be  elected  instead  of  John  Fraunk,  who  is  dead. 


40  EDWARD    III. 


229 


1306.  Membrane  20 — cont. 

July  11.         Order  to  the  slieiifT  of  Essex  to  cause  a  veiderer  in  the  forest  of 
Westminster.  Walt  ham  to  be  elected  instead  of  John  Hert,  who  is  insufficiently 
qualified. 

July  8.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  York  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Wostminstor.  of  Gerard  Brunby,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

July  5.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Oxford  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

VVestminstor.  of  Walter  atte  Halle  of  Adderbury,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

July  16.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Bedford  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  llobert  Carboncll,  who  is  dead. 

July  20.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cunibeiland  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  John  do  Ireby,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Memduane  19. 
June  16.  To  John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Huntingdonshire.  Order  not  to 
Westminster,  meddle  further  with  the  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Botulvesbrugge  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Margaret  who  was  wife  of 
Simon  de  Drayton  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  John  son  and  heir 
of  John  Paynel  of  Botheby  knight ;  as  by  the  tenor  of  the  record  and 
process  of  a  cause  between  the  king  and  John  Gymeges  of  Stacheden, 
whether  the  said  moiety,  lately  held  for  life  by  the  said  Margaret 
with  reversion  to  the  said  John  son  of  John  tlien  within  age,  was  held 
in  chief  by  knight  service  or  of  the  said  John  Gymeges  as  mesne 
lord,  which  record  the  king  caused  to  come  before  him  in  chancery, 
it  is  found  that  John  Paynel  the  father  held  the  same  by  knight 
service  of  John  Gymeges  father  of  the  said  John  Gymeges  of 
Stacheden  and  not  in  chief,  whereby  it  was  determined  that  John 
Gymeges  should  be  restored  to  his  seignory  in  regard  to  the  services 
and  customs  to  him  due  of  old  time  from  John  Paynel  and  his 
ancestors,  and  likewise  that  the  said  moiety  should  remain  in  the 
king's  hand  until  the  lawful  age  of  John  Paynel  for  that  it  came  to  the 
king  by  reason  of  his  nonage  before  John  Gymeges  did  his  homage  ; 
and  now  John  son  of  John  Paynel  has  proved  his  age  before  W^alter 
de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire,  and  the  king  at  another  time  lias 
taken  the  homage  of  John  Gymeges  the  son,  and  has  commanded 
livery  of  his  heritage  to  be  given  him. 
The  hke  to  the  sheriff  of  Huntingdon. 

July  15.  To  John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.  Order  to  deliver 
Westminster,  to  Edmund  de  la  Pole  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  second  daughter  of 
Richard  de  Haudlo  and  sister  and  one  of  the  heirs  of  Edmund  de 
Haudlo  his  son  and  heir,  to  her  purparty,  the  manors  of  Borstal], 
Ocle  and  Adyngrave,  lands  in  BrehuU  and  rents  in  Astclaydon, 
Botclaydon,  Middelclaydon  and  Hykford  all  parcel  of  the  manor  of 
Borstall,  and  the  bailiwick  of  the  forestership  of  Brenewode,  with 
all  lands  of  their  heritage  as  well  in  demesne  as  in  lordships  and  rever- 
sions in  Bukinghamshire,  the  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  thereto 
pertaining,  and  the  issues  of  the  same  taken  by  the  escheator; 
as  on  30  November  in  the  35th  year  of  his  reign,  of  the 
lands  of  the  said  Richard  and  Edmund  de  Haudlo  tenants  in 
chief,  and  of  those  held  in  dower  or  for  life  by  Isabel  who  was 
wife  of  the  said  Richard  of  the  heritage  of  his  heirs,  the  king  assigned 


230  '  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS 


1366,  Membrane  19 — cont.  ' 

to  the  said  Edmund  and  Elizabeth  to  her   purparty  the   manors  of 
Tremworth,  Vanne,  Crondale    with    the    advowson  and    a    rent    in 
Canterbury  and  Welde,  Haudlo,  Wynchecombe,  Ore  and  Assheden  and 
all  other  lands  etc.  of  that  heritage  in  Kent,  the  manor  of  Chadlynton 
called  Shipenhull,  a  messuage  and  3  acres  of  land  in  Hedyndon  co. 
Oxford  sometime  of  Alan  Hobbes,  and  the  reversion  after  the  death 
of  Alice  who  was  wife  of  Edmund  de  Haudlo  of  the  manors  of  Colne 
Seint  Aldewyne,  Hatherop  and  Wyke  co.  Gloucester  at  that  time  held 
according  to  the  form   of   the  partition  by  John   de   Appulby   and 
Margaret  his  wife  the  other  sister   and   heir    of   the   said   Edmund 
during    the    life    of    the    said    Alice,    and   to   the   said    John    and 
Margaret     to     her     purparty     the     manors     of    Borstall,    Brehull, 
Claresplace,     Hokkele     and    Adyngrave,    a    rent    in    Hasteclaydon, 
Middelclaydon    and    Botclaydon,    the    whole    rent    of    Upton     and 
Hykford,  the  bailiwick   of   the   forestership   of    Brenewode   and    all 
lands  etc,  in    Bukinghamshire,  all   lands   in   Muswell  and  Thomell, 
the    manor    of   Hedyndon    with  the    bailiwick   of    the    forestership 
of   Shotore    and    Stouwode  co.   Oxford,   one  messuage  and  3  acres 
of  land  sometime  of  Alan  Hobbes  in  the  manor  of  Hedyndon  and  the 
manor  of  Chadlyngton  called  WhauU  in  that  county  excepted  ;  and 
for  that  the  king  by  process  in  chancerj'^  recovered  against  the  said 
Edmund  de  la  Pole  and  Elizabeth  the  manors  of  Tremworth  and 
Vanne      the     said     rent     in     Canterbury,    and    the    advowson    of 
Crondale,  and  the  said  John  and  Margaret  were  adjudged  to  content 
them  for  a  moiety  of  the  lands  so  recovered,  the  said  Edmund,  Eliza- 
beth, John  and  Margaret  by  common  assent  surrendered  into  the 
king's  hand  all  the  lands  to  them  assigned  except  those  in  the  king's 
hand  by  the  said  recovery,  praying  that  a  new  partition  should  be 
made,  and  by  their  common  assent  the  king  has  assigned  to  the  said 
Edmund  de  la  Pole  and  Elizabeth  to  her  purparty  the  manors,  lands, 
rent    and    bailiwick    aforesaid    in    Bukinghamshire,    the    manors    of 
Muswell,    Thomell    and     Hedyngton    with     the     bailiwick     of    the 
forestership  of  Shotore  in  Oxfordshire   (except  the  above  mentioned 
tenement  in  the  manor  of  Hedyngton   sometime   of   Alan   Hobbes 
and  now  void  and  unoccupied  which  is  of  the  purparty  of  John  and 
Margaret)  with  the  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  thereto  belonging. 

The  hke,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in 
Oxfordshire  concerning  the  manors  of  Muswell,  Thomell  and  Hadyng- 
ton  with  the  bailiwick  of  the  forestership  of  Shotore,  except  a 
messuage  and  3  acres  of  land  in  the  manor  of  Hedyngton  which  were 
of  Alan  Hobbes. 

To  Philip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.  Like  order, 
mutatis  mutandis,  to  deliver  to  the  said  John  and  Margaret,  to  her 
purparty,  all  lands,  meado\^  s,  rents  and  services  in  Colne,  Hakthorp 
and  Wyke  ;  as  the  king  has  assigned  to  them  the  manors  of  Chad- 
lyngton and  ShepenhuU  with  all  lands,  ftieadows,  rents  and  services 
etc.  in  WahuU  and  Kadlesham  co.  Oxford  which  are  parcel  of  the 
manor  of  Chadlyngton,  a  messuage  and  3  acres  of  land  in  Hedyngdon 
CO.  Oxford  except  the  services  thereof  due,  all  lands,  meadows,  rents 
and  services  etc.  in  Colne,  Hacthorp  and  Wyke  co.  Gloucester,  the 
manors  of  Ore,  Assheden  and  Haudlo  with  lands,  rents  and  services 
etc.  in  Wynchecombe,  Ore,  Assheden  and  Haudlo  co.  Kent  which 
were  of  the  said  Richard,  Edmund  de  Haudlo  and  Isabel. 


40    EDWARD    III.  231 


1366w  Membrane  19 — conl. 

Tlie  like  to  John  do  Ty  CHcheator  in  Kent,  concerning  the  manors 
of  Ore,  Asshedon  and  Haudlo,  with  lands,  rents  and  services  etc. 
in  tlie  towns  of  Wynchecombe,   Ore,    Assheden  and  Haudlo. 

Membrane  18. 

June  20.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  stay 
Westminstor.  their  demand  made  upon  John  de  Stodeye,  Richard  Blake  and  John 
de  Wylyngham  for  42  tuns  of  wine  to  the  king's  use,  discharging  them 
thereof  ;  as  on  11  February  in  the  34th  year  of  his  reign  the  king 
by  letters  patent  appointed  the  said  Richard  and  John  de  Wylyngham 
jointly  and  severally  to  make  search  upon  singular  the  sea  coasts 
within  the  counties  of  Kent  and  Essex  for  138  tuns  and  one  pipe  of 
wine  of  the  king's  own  wines,  marked  with  the  marks  of  divers 
mercliants  of  whom  they  were  bought,  and  laded  in  a  ship  called 
la  Kateryne  of  Wynchelse,  which  wine  the  king  lately  ordered  to  be 
taken  to  parts  over  sea,  unladed  in  certain  places  and  put  in  cellars, 
and  the  said  ship  at  sea  on  its  voyage  thither  was  by  a  storm  broken 
and  imperilled  off  the  said  coast,  and  great  part  of  the  said  wines 
were  cast  up  on  land,  appointing  them  also  to  arrest  and  safe  keep 
to  the  king's  use  until  further  order  all  wines  so  cast  up  marked  with 
any  mark  whatsoever  which  by  their  search  might  be  found  ;  and 
after  on  behalf  of  the  said  Richard  and  John  the  king  learned  that, 
though  by  their  search  they  found  42  tuns  of  the  said  wines  and 
delivered  the  same  to  John  de  Stodeye  then  the  king's  butler  to  his 
use,  and  though  the  said  butler  accounted  for  them  in  his  account 
in  the  king's  wardrobe,  as  by  the  account  may  appear,  the  treasurer 
and  the  barons  are  purposing  therewith  to  charge  the  said  Richard 
and  John  de  Wylyngham  in  their  account  at  the  exchequer,  wherefore 
he  commanded  them  to  view  the  account  rendered  in  the  wardrobe 
by  John  de  Stodeye,  which  is  in  the  exchequer,  and  if  thereby  they 
should  find  that  he  received  the  said  42  tuns  of  the  said  Richard  and  John 
de  Wylyngham  as  aforesaid,  charged  himself  therewith,  and  accounted 
for  the  same,  to  stay  their  demand  upon  the  said  Richard  and  John  de 
Wylyngham  for  the  said  wines,  discharging  at  the  exchequer  both  them 
and  John  de  Stodeye,  and  if  there  should  be  cause  why  they  ought 
not  so  to  do,  to  certify  the  same  in  chancery  ;  and  the  treasurer  and 
barons  certified  in  chancery  that  they  had  not  proceeded  to  the 
discharge  of  John  de  Stodeye  for  that  he  did  not  account  in  the 
exchequer  concerning  his  butlery  nor  is  his  account  in  their  hands, 
but  he  accounted  with  William  de  Farle  late  keeper  of  the  wardrobe, 
who  accounted  in  the  exchequer  concerning  the  wardrobe,  and  the 
said  William  in  his  account  charges  himself  with  divers  sums  of  money 
received  by  the  said  butler's  hands  as  the  price  of  divers  wines  received 
of  divers  men  upon  the  expenses  of  the  household,  making  no  express 
mention  of  the  said  42  tuns,  nor  giving  particulars  of  the  tuns  of  the 
said  wines  or  the  names  of  those  from  whom  the  same  were  bought 
or  received  ;  and  Thomas  de  Brantyngham  the  king's  clerk  then 
cofferer  of  the  household,  who  began  to  engross  the  said  account  of 
William  de  Farle  and  before  the  same  was  ended  was  sent  on  the  king's 
service  to  the  parts  of  Calais,  John  de  Uppyngham  the  king's  clerk 
then  clerk  of  the  said  William  and  now  one  of  the  auditors  of  the 
exchequer,  who  engrossed  the  said  account  after  the  departure  of 
the  said  Thomas,  and  William  de  Humberston  the  king's  clerk  one  of 
the  clerks  of  the  household,  who  was  with  the  said  William  de  Farle 


232  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366.  Membrane  18 — cont. 

Sit  the  rendering  of  his  account,  as  they  say,  have  severally  witnessed 
before  the  king  that,  among  other  particulars  which  upon  his  account 
of  the  butlery  John  de  Stodeye  delivered  to  Wilham  de  Earle,  they 
saw  particulars  of  the  42  tuns  aforesaid,  and  that  the  said  butler 
charged  himself  with  them  and  accounted  for  them,  and  John  de 
Stodeye  has  sworn  upon  the  gospels  that  he  did  so. 

Sept.  10.         To  the  chancellor  and  treasurer  of  Ireland  for  the  time  being,  or  to 
Havering      their  representatives.     Order  to  summon  to  them  the  king's  justices, 
[atte  Bower],  gerjeants  and  others  of  his  council  in  Ireland,  the  guardian  of  the 
lands  of  the  heritage  of  the  heir  of  Roger  de  Mortuo  Mari,  and  others 
who    ought   to    be    so    summoned,    to    hear   the   plaint    of     Robert 
de  Clynton  knight  and  John  de  Clynton  his  son  and  the  reasons  and 
allegations  to  be  set  forth  as  well  for  the  king  and  the  said  heir  as  for 
the  said  Robert  and    John,  to  take  information  on  the  matter  by  in- 
quisitions and  otherwise  as  shall  seem  best,  and  further  to  proceed  to  final 
debate  of  the  business,  doing  speedy  justice  to  the  parties,  and  if  the 
said  Robert  and  John  shall  find  sufficient  men  willing  to  mainpern 
for  them  to  answer  to  the  king  at  the  exchequer  of  Ireland  for  the 
true  value  of  the  manors  of  Novan  and  Ardsallagh  from  the  death 
of  Wilham  Nongle  in  case  it  be  determined  that  the  same  ought  to 
pertain  to  the  king  in  name  of  wardship  or  otherwise,  upon  sight  of 
these  presents  to  deliver  by  such  mainprise  to  the  said  Robert  and 
John  the  manors  aforesaid  with  the  crop  of  corn  and  other   issues 
thereof  arising  since  the  death  of  the  said  Wilham  and  henceforward, 
any  commission  thereof  made  to  other  persons  by  any  the  king's 
ministers  in  Ireland  whatsoever  notwithstanding,   so  that  the  said 
Robert  and  John  shall  apply  themselves  with  what  diligence  they 
may  to  terminate  the  business  with  all  speed,  the  chancellor  and 
treasurer  certifying  their  action  in  the  matter  under  seal  in  the  chancery 
of  England  as  soon   as   may  be  ;    as  on  10  June   last    it  was   found 
by    inquisition    taken    before    Richard    Stuiy    escheator    of  Ireland, 
which  inquisition  is  exemplified  under  the  great  seal  used  in  Ireland 
and  shewn  before  the  king  in  the  chancery  of  England,  that  Nicholas 
le  Bruyn  was  sometime  lawfully  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  the 
said  manors  which  were  of  William  Naungle,  that  he  gave  them  to 
John  de  Nongle  and  Margaret  his  wife  for  their  lives  with  remainder 
to  Barnabas  de  Nongle  their  son  and   the  heirs  male  of   his    body, 
remainder  for  lack  of  such  heirs  to  Walter  Nongle  brother  of  Barnabas 
and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  further  entailing  the  same  to  other 
persons  in  like  manner,  by  virtue  of  which   gift  the  said   John  and 
Margaret  were  thereof  seised  and  died  so  seised,  that  after  their  death 
the  said  Barnabas  entered  and  was  seised  by  form  of  the  said  gift, 
that  he  had  two  sons  namely  William  Nongle  the  elder  and  Barnabas 
Nongle  the  younger,  that  he  died  so  seised,  that  after  his  death  the 
said  William  entered  as  his  son  and  heir  and  was  seised  by  the  form 
of  the  gift,  that  he  after  demised  the  said  manors  to  Robert  de  Clynton 
knight  for  a  term  of  nine  years  rendering  one  rose  a  year  during  the 
first  seven  years  and  during  the  two  remaining  years  50  marks  yearly 
at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  that  to  secure  that  term 
to  the  said  Robert  the  said  William  made  a  quitclaim  of  the  said 
manors,  which  by  assent  of  the  parties  was  put  in  the  keeping  of  Thomas 
More  upon  condition  that,  if  Robert  might  enjoy  his  said  term  therein 
without  being  thrust  out  by  the  said  William  or  by  any  at  his  pro- 
curement the  quitclaim  should  be  delivered  to  William  and  annulled, 


i 


40    EDWARD    III.  233 


136().  Membrane  18 — cont. 

and  if  he  should  so  bo  tliiust  out  it  should  bo  delivered  to  the  said 
Robert,  that  the  said  Robert  held  the  said  manors  all  the  life  of  the 
said  William  and  long  after  without  let,  and  continued  his  term  two 
years  and  more  after  the  said  demise,  until  after  the  said  William's 
death  he  aliened  the  said  manors  in  fee  to  John  Plunket  and  Richard 
Plunket,  who  thereof  again  enfeoffed  the  said  Robert  and  John  Clynton 
his  son,  by  virtue  of  which  feoffment  they  were  thereof  seised,  that 
the  said  William,  who  died  on  Thursday  before  the  Purification  last, 
was  at  his  death  seised  of  the  estate  aforesaid  and  died  without  an 
heir  of  his  body,  that  Barnabas  Nongle  the  younger  his  brother  is  his  next 
heir  and  of  the  age  of  18  years,  that  the  said  manors  are  held  in  chief 
by  knight  service  of  the  heir  of  Roger  de  Mortuo  Mari,  a  minor  in  the 
king's  wardship,  and  that  for  that  cause  they  are  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  and  so  remain  ;  and  now  on  behalf  of  the  said  Robert  and 
John  the  king  is  informed  that  the  said  William  son  and  heir  of  Barnabas, 
of  whom  the  said  Robert  acquired  the  said  manors  to  him  and  his 
heirs,  was  thereof  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  simple  at  the  time 
of  their  acquisition,  and  not  in  fee  tail  as  by  the  inquisition  supposed, 
that  whereas  in  the  inquisition  it  is  contained  that  the  said  William 
demised  the  said  manors  to  the  said  Robert  for  a  term  of  nine  years 
under  the  condition  aforesaid,  and  for  security  made  a  quitclaim 
thereof  which  was  put  in  the  keeping  of  Thomas  More,  the  said  Robert 
had  an  estate  in  fee  simple  to  him  and  his  heirs  by  feoffment  of 
the  said  William,  and  the  said  quitclaim  to  him  made  was  delivered 
to  his  keeping  and  not  to  the  said  Thomas  nor  to  any  other,  and  with 
the  charter  of  feoffment  so  made  is  yet  in  his  hands  as  he  is  ready  to 
prove  in  due  manner,  wherefore  the  said  Robert  and  John  have 
prayed  the  king  to  order  the  said  manors  to  be  restored  to  them,  as 
by  colour  of  the  said  inquisition  they  are  ousted  of  their  freehold 
without  being  summoned  or  heard,  contrary  to  the  law  and  custom 
of  Ireland  and  to  the  statutes.  By  p.s. 

Et  erat  patens. 

Membrane  17. 

July  12.  To  all  and  singular  the  sheriffs,  mayors,  bailiffs,  the  king's  ministers 

Westminster,  and  other  his  lieges  within  liberties  and  without.  Order  to  suffer 
the  abbot  and  monks  of  St.  Mary  York  and  all  and  singular  their 
^  men  coming  to  the  districts  of  sheriffs  and  others  with  goods  and 
property  or  passing  through  the  same  to  be  quit  of  toll,  tallage,  passage, 
pedage,  stallage,  wardage,  works  and  aids  of  walls,  sea  walls,  dikes  and 
fish  ponds,  ship  carriage  (navigio),  building  of  the  king's  houses,  work 
or  ward  of  castles,  carriage  and  sumpter  service  {carreio  et  summagio), 
according  to  the  charters  of  former  kings,  not  taking  their  wains, 
carts  or  horses  for  any  carriage  or  troubling  them  in  aught  contrary 
to  the  said  charters,  and  restoring  anything  of  them  so  taken  ;  as  among 
other  liberties  granted  to  the  said  abbot  and  monks  by  those  charters 
it  is  granted  that  they  and  their  successors  shall  be  quit  of  the  customs 
aforesaid  in  city  and  borough,  market  and  fair,  in  passage  of  bridges 
and  seaports,  and  in  all  places  througliout  England,  Ireland,  Wales  and 
all  the  king's  lands  and  waters,  and  the  king  by  charter  has  confirmed 
the  same,  and  has  further  granted  that  they  shall  peaceably  use  and 
enjoy  the  liberties  and  quittances  so  granted  without  let  of  the  king, 
his  heirs,  justices,  escheators,  sheriffs,  bailiffs  or  ministers  whatsoever, 
though  they  have  not  so  done  heretofore. 
Et  erat  patens. 


234 


CALENBAH  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366.  Membrane  17 — cont. 

July  14.  To  John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Surrey.     Order  not  to  meddle  further 

Westminster,  with  a  messuage  and  9  acres  of  land,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the 
death  of  Thomas  Vaghan,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken ; 
as  on  6  April  in  the  31st  year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  letters  patent 
gave  to  John  de  Wynewyk,  William  de  Thorp  and  William  de  Peek 
for  their  lives  the  manor  of  Hachesham  which  he  lately  had  of  the  gift 
of  Roger  Bavent  knight,  and.  the  knights'  fees,  advowsons  etc.  thereto 
belonging,  with  remainder  to  the  prioress  and  sisters  of  the  house  of  the 
order  of  preachers  by  him  newly  founded  at  Derteford  and  to  their 
successors  in  aid  of  their  maintenance  ;  and  now  it  is  found  by  divers 
inquisitions,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Thomas  Vaghan, 
who  died  4  June  in  the  35th  year  of  the  reign,  held  at  his  death  no  lands 
in  chief  as  of  the  crown  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  in  his  demesne 
as  of  fee  a  manor  called  Coldherbergh  in  Hachesham  whereof  a  messuage 
and  9  acres  of  land  are  held  of  the  Idng  as  of  his  manor  of  Hachesham 
l)y  the  service  of  rendering  14c?.  a  year  at  his  said  manor  of  Hachesham, 
that  Hamon  Vaghan  son  of  the  said  Thomas  is  his  next  heir  and  was 
aged  one  year  at  his  said  father's  death,  and  that  John  de  Wynewyk 
died  20  June  in  the  34th  year,  William  de  Thorp  27  May  in  the  35th  year, 
and  William  de  Peek  20  December  in  the  37th  year  of  the  reign,  whereby 
the  said  prioress  has  petitioned  the  king  for  removal  of  his  hand 
from  the  premises  so  held  of  her  as  of  her  said  manor  of  Hachesham,  as 
the  same  has  now  come  to  her  hands  by  the  death  of  the  said  John, 
William  and  Wilham. 

July  4.  To  William  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Northumberland.     Order  to 

Westminste-.  deliver  to  John  Stryvelyn  knight  and  Jacoba  his  wife,  Maud  who  was 
wife  of  Alexander  de  Hilton  knight  and  sometime  of  Richard  de  Acton, 
Maud  daughter  of  Agnes  daughter  of  Richard  de  Emeldon,  and  to 
Nicholas  Sabraham  and  Alice  his  wife,  to  be  parted  among  them, 
all  fees  and  advowsons  of  the  heritage  of  the  said  Jacoba,  Maud, 
Maud  and  Alice  which  are  in  the  king's  hand  as  well  by  the  death  of 
Richard  de  Emeldon  as  by  that  of  Christiana  who  was  wife  of  William  de 
Plumpton  knight ;  as  lately  on  the  finding  of  an  inquisition,  taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Cliristiana  at  her  death  held  in  dower 
the  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Jesemuth  which  is  held  in  chief, 
and  divers  other  lands  in  that  county  not  held  of  the  king,  of  the  heritage 
of  Maud  and  Alice  daughters  of  Agnes  eldest  daughter  and  heir  of  the 
said  Richard  her  first  husband  tenant  in  chief,  Maud  who  was  wife  of 
Alexander  de  Hilton  his  second  daughter  and  the  said  Jacoba  his  third 
daughter  and  heir,  with  reversion  to  the  said  heirs  being  of  full  age, 
the  king  took  the  homage  of  the  said  John  Stryvelyn,  Maud  and  Maud 
and  of  Nicholas  husband  of  the  said  Alice,  and  ordered  the  escheator 
in  presence  of  the  said  heirs  and  parceners  to  make  a  partition 
into  three  equal  parts  of  the  lands  so  held  in  dower  by  the  said 
Christiana,  and  to  cause  the  said  John  Stryvelyn  and  Jacoba  and  Maud 
who  was  wife  of  Richard  de  Acton  to  have  seisin  of  the  purparties 
of  Jacoba  and  the  said  Maud,  and  the  said  Maud  daughter  of  Agnes, 
Nicholas  and  Alice  to  have  seisin  of  their  purparty  ;  and  now  the  said 
parceners  have  petitioned  the  king  to  order  livery  to  be  given  them 
of  the  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  of  the  heritage  aforesaid,  which  are 
yet  in  the  king's  hand. 

June  26.         To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne,   and  to  the 
Westminster,  customers  in  that  town.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Nicholas  de 


40  EDWARD  III. 


235 


1800.  Membrane  17 — cont. 

Narford  of  Lenne,  to  take  of  him  security  tUat  he  will  bring  four  lasts 
of  ox  hides  to  the  city  of  London  or  the  town  of  Lcnne  and  not  elsewhere, 
and  to  suil'er  liini  by  that  mainprise  to  lade  the  said  hides  in  the  port  of 
Newcastle  upon  Tyne  and  take  them  tliither  to  make  his  advantage 
thereof,  sending  to  the  king  in  chancery  by  a  trusty  person  the  number 
of  the  said  hides  and  the  names  of  the  mainpernors. 


Membrane  16. 

June  15.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order,  upon 
Westminster,  the  petition  of  the  prioress  and  sisters  of  the  house  of  the  order  of 
preachers  Dertford,  to  search  the  record  and  process  of  a  suit  in  the 
exchequer  concerning  one  mark  of  rent  in  Brent  Illeye,  and  if  they 
shall  thereby  find  that  the  Idng  recovered  the  said  rent  as  parcel  of 
the  manor  of  Coumbes  co.  Suffolk  against  Ralph  de  Shelton  knight, 
and  if  assured  by  inquisition  or  otherwise  that  John  de  Wynewyk, 
William  de  Thorp  and  William  de  Pek  are  dead,  to  cause  the  said 
rent  uith  the  arrears  thereof  from  the  time  of  their  death  to  be  delivered 
according  to  the  king's  grant  to  the  said  prioress  and  sisters  and  their 
successors,  notwithstanding  that  after  such  recovery  the  same  was 
levied  to  the  king's  use  ;  as  Roger  Bavent  knight  by  charter  lately 
gave  the  said  manor  to  the  king  and  his  heirs,  and  the  king  (as  he  has 
learned)  after  recovered  the  said  rent  as  parcel  thereof,  as  may  appear 
by  the  said  record  and  process,  which  are  in  the  exchequer  it  is  said  ; 
and  now  the  said  prioress  and  sisters  have  shewn  the  king  that  by 
letters  patent  on  6  April  in  the  31st  year  of  his  reign  he  gave  the  said 
manor  and  the  knights'  fees  etc.  thereto  belonging  to  the  said  John, 
William  and  William  for  their  lives,  with  remainder  to  the  said  prioress 
and  sisters  in  aid  of  their  maintenance,  which  manor  is  now  in  their 
hands  by  reason  of  the  death  of  the  said  John,  William  and  William, 
and  by  virtue  of  the  kings  grant. 

July  23.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton.  Order  to  cause  Thomas  Fitz  Wauter 
Westminster,  lord  of  Daventre  to  have  seisin  of  a  cottage  with  the  appurtenances 
in  Daventre  held  by  Thomas  de  Thurmaston  outlawed  for  felony  it 
is  said  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  sheriff, 
that  the  same  has  been  in  his  hand  a  year  and  a  day,  that  it  was  held 
of  the  said  Thomas  Fitz  Wauter  by  the  service  of  rendering  him 
Id.  a  year  at  Michaelmas  and  of  doing  suit  at  his  court  of  Daventre 
every  three  weeks,  and  that  Richard  de  Wydeville  the  escheator  has 
had  the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste,  and  ought  to  answer  to  the  king 
for  the  same. 

June  26.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  cause 
Westminster.  John  de  Thorp  the  king's  clerk,  warden  of  his  moneys  in  the  Tower  of 
London,  to  have  allowance  in  his  account  at  the  exchequer  of  111.  by 
him  paid  at  the  receipt  of  the  exchequer  for  the  king's  seignorage 
to  him  pertaining  for  coinage  of  a  sum  of  gold  by  him  received  for  the 
payment  which  the  king  of  France  is  bound  to  make  for  his  ransom. 

July  4.  To  the  treasurer  and    the  barons  of    the  exchequer  and    to  the 

Westminster,  chamberlains.     Order  to  account  with  John  de  Thorp  the  king's  clerk 

concerning  his  expenses  in  going  to  Scotland,  whither  the  king  lately 

sent  him  from  the  city  of  London  to  bring  to  him  in  London  a  sum 

of  money  due  to  the  king  of  the  ransom  of  David  de  Bruys  his  prisoner, 


236 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSK  ROLLS. 


1366.  Mernbrane  16 — cont. 

and  thence  returning,  to  allow  him  10s.  a  day  for  his  wages  and  the 
wages  of  Bartholomew  Lumbard  going  thither  in  his  company  by  order 
of  the  council  and  thence  returning,  73s.  id.  for  two  horses  bought  for 
the  said  Bartholomew  for  the  purpose  and  lost  on  the  journey,  and 
38s.  9d.  for  carriage  of  divers  things  concerning  the  assay  of  the  money, 
and  of  the  treasury  to  pay  the  said  John  what  is  found  to  be  due  to  him 
on  that  account.  By  K.  and  C. 

June  13.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  view 
Westminster,  the  account  of  John  de  Middelton  deceased,  keeper  of  the  king's  victuals 
at  the  town  of  Calais,  and  if  they  shall  thereby  find  that  answer  was 
made  to  the  king  for  710  quarters  (or  707  quarters)  2  bushels  of  oats 
delivered  to  the  said  John  by  Richard  de  Cotyngham  then  the  king's 
Serjeant  under  William  de  Clee  in  the  office  of  avener  of  his  household, 
to  stay  their  demand  made  upon  the  said  John,  or  upon  Adam 
Chaungeour  of  London  tenant  of  a  tenement  in  that  city  which  was  of 
the  said  John,  for  117/.  18s.  4d.  as  to  him  delivered  by  the  said  William 
by  colour  of  the  account  of  Henry  de  Walton  keeper  of  the  wardrobe, 
thereof  discharging  as  well  the  said  John  as  the  said  Adam,  the  heirs 
and  executors  of  the  said  John,  and  the  tenants  of  his  land ;  as  the  said 
Adam  has  shewn  the  king  that  the  last  time  that  the  Idng  was  at  Calais 
the  said  John  received  there  to  the  king's  use  from  the  said  Richard  by 
the  hand  of  John  Gryndere  the  quantity  of  oats  above  mentioned  at  the 
aforesaid  price  at  the  time  when  the  said  Henry  and  VVilliam  held  the 
said  offices,  and  that  though  the  executors  of  the  said  John  de  Middelton 
in  the  account  of  the  said  victuals  by  them  rendered  at  the  exchequer 
accounted  fully  for  the  same  and  charged  themselves  therewith,  the 
treasurer  and  the  barons  are  purposing  to  charge  the  said  John  with 
the  sum  aforesaid,  and  are  causing  the  said  Adam  unlawfully  to  be 
distrained  for  the  same,  for  that  in  the  account  of  the  said  Henry 
it  is  found  that  John  de  Middelton  received  the  said  price  as  a  prest 
to  him  delivered  by  the  said  William  de  Clee,  wherefore  prayer  has 
been  made  to  the  king  for  remedy  ;  and  it  is  witnessed  before  the  kijig 
by  credible  persons  of  his  household  that  the  said  Richard,  being 
under  the  said  W^illiam  as  the  king's  minister  in  his  said  office,  in  the 
said  William's  name  dehvered  at  the  time  aforesaid  to  John  de  Middelton 
the  aforesaid  quantity  of  oats,  and  that  the  said  John  received  no  other 
oats  of  the  said  William  at  that  time. 


Sept.  30.  To  Ralph  Spigurnell  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of  the 
Westminster.  Cinque  Ports.  Order  to  survey  the  defects  of  the  said  castle  as  well 
in  houses,  walls,  turrets,  the  church,  chapel,  belfry,  hall  and  other 
buildings  and  the  windows,  glazing  and  doors  thereof  as  in  the  books, 
vestments,  ornaments  and  fittings  of  the  said  church  and  chapel, 
and  in  the  arms,  armour,  bows,  arrows,  cross  bows,  engines  of  war 
*  and  other  things  needful  for  furnishing  the  same,  and  cause  them  from 
time  to  time  to  be  repaired  as  need  shall  be  by  view  and  testimony 
of  the  abbot  of  St.  Radegund  and  of  the  master  of  the  Maison  Dieu 
Dovorre  or  of  one  of  them,  and  wood  for  making  bows  and  crossbows, 
barrels  for  cleaning  armour,  chests  for  keeping  the  books,  vestments 
and  ornaments  of  the  said  church,  and  other  things  needful  to  be  bought 
and  purveyed  by  view  and  testimony  of  the  persons  aforesaid  ;  as 
the  king  is  informed  that  such  defects  are  many.  By  K. 


40  EDWARD  III.  237 


1366.  Membrane  15. 

Proceedings  in  a  parliament  holdcn  at  Westminster  4  May 
40  Edward  IIT  and  before  the  council,  between  p]lizabeth  wife  of 
Sir  Nicholas  Daudcleye  and  Sir  James  Daudeleye  father  of  the  said 
Nicholas.  WHiereas  the  said  Elizabeth,  pleading  before  the  king  in 
parliament,  shewed  that  the  said  Sir  James  by  deed  indented 
made  between  him  and  Dame  Alice  de  Beaumont  countess  of  Bogham 
mother  of  the  said  Elizabeth  granted  to  the  said  Alice  the  marriage 
of  the  said  Nicholas  to  marry  him  to  the  said  Elizabeth,  granting  that 
he  would  enfeoff  the  .«said  Nicholas  and  Elizabeth  of  200  marks  of 
rent  in  Monynton,  Dilwe  and  Eordeshome  if  so  much  there  were, 
and  if  not  of  his  heritage  of  Audeley  elsewhere,  to  them  and  the  heirs 
of  their  bodies,  and  the  reversion  of  200  marks  of  land  which  should 
come  lo  the  said  James  after  the  decease  of  Sir  Philip  de  ColuTnbers 
and  Dame  Eleanor  his  wiie,  or  after  the  decease  of  Dame  de  Wateville, 
so  that  if  the  said  Philip  and  Eleanor  or  the  said  dame  should  die 
within  six  years  the  said  James  should  have  the  reversions  aforesaid 
for  that  term,  and  granting  further  that  he  would  make  a  feofFment 
and  estate  of  all  the  residue  of  his  heritage  in  demesne  and 
in  reversion  to  certain  persons  in  fee  simple,  taking  again 
an  estate  to  him  the  said  James  and  the  heirs  of  his  body, 
with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  issue  to  his  right  heirs ;  and 
thereupon  the  said  Elizabeth  said  that  the  tenements  which 
she  and  the  said  Nicholas  have  of  the  gift  of  the  said  James 
in  Monynton,  Dilwe  and  Eordeshome  are  worth  but  120Z. 
a  year  and  no  more,  that  by  the  feofTment  by  the  said  James 
made,  when  they  the  said  Nicholas  and  Elizabeth  were  within  the  age 
of  twelve  years,  he  reserved  to  himself  20^.  a  year  of  the  same,  and 
though  ofttimes  required  to  grant  the  reversion  of  the  land  aforesaid 
he  would  do  none  of  it,  which  land  they  the  said  Nicholas  and  Elizabeth 
ought  to  have  had  after  the  death  of  Dame  Eleanor  de  Columbers, 
who  survived  Sir  Philip  her  husband  and  died  in  the  16th  year  of  the 
now  king,  to  wit  after  the  term  of  six  years  above  mentioned,  and 
they  have  none  of  it,  and  likewise  the  said  James  would  make  no 
assurance  of  the  residue  of  his  inheritance  as  in  the  indenture  agreed, 
wherefore  she  prayed  the  king  for  aid  and  remedy.  And  thereupon 
he  caused  the  said  Sir  James  to  come  before  the  council,  to  wit  the 
chancellor,  treasurer,  justices  and  other  wase  men  assembled  in  the  Star 
Chamber  near  the  receipt  at  Westminster  on  the  morrow  of  the 
Ascension,  and  there  the  said  Elizabeth  [shewed]  her  said  grievances 
and  the  indenture  aforesaid,  dated  the  manor  of  Whitewyk  ?Jonday 
before  St.  Luke  15  Edward  III,  and  prayed  for  redress  ;  and  the  said 
Sir  James  submitted  himself  therein  to  the  order  of  the  king  and  council, 
and  so  did  the  said  Elizabeth  ;  and  as  Sir  James  was  not  then  fully 
advised  to  answer  to  the  said  grievances,  at  his  prayer  a  day  was 
given  to  the  parties  on  the  morrow  of  St.  John,  and  at  his  prayer 
he  was  granted  licence  to  make  answer  by  attorney.  On  which  day 
the  said  Elizabeth  came  in  person  before  the  council,  and  Sir  James 
by  David  de  Hanmer  and  others  his  attorneys,  bearing  a  letter  patent 
\text  follows]  of  James  Daudeley  lord  of  Red  Castle  and  of  Heley,  dated 
14  May  40  Edward  III,  naming  Fulk  Corbet,  the  said  David,  Robert 
Hatche  and  John  Mareschall  his  attorneys,  w  ith  proviso  that  the  earl  of 
Arundell  be  present  and  assent  to  the  order  of  council ;  and  the  said 
Elizabeth  shewed  the  grievances  suffered  by  herself  and  her  husband 
contrary  to  the  said  indenture,  and  the  indenture  witnessing  the 
covenants  above  rehearsed,  praying  for  redress,  and  the  said  attorneys 


238  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


i-obb.  Membrane  15 — cont. 

of  Sir  James  answered  nought  save  that  they  would  not  answer  but 
in  presence  of  the  earl  of  Arundell ;  and  they  were  told  by  the  council 
that  when  a  man  submits  himself  to  the  order  of  the  king  or  council 
it  is  not  lawful  nor  reasonable  that  any  be  added  to  the  council  by 
any  name  but  such  as  the  king  pleases,  and  moreover  it  is  put  on 
record  by  the  chancellor,  the  treasurer  and  all  the  council  that 
Sir  James  submitted  himself  wholly  as  aforesaid,  and  after  prayed  that 
the  said  earl  might  be  one  of  them,  and  the  chancellor  said  that  the 
earl  was  of  the  council  and  his  presence  would  please  him  well,  and 
further  shewed  the  earl's  letter  to  him  addressed  witnessing  that 
the  earl  was  required  to  be  in  the  council  that  day  in  aid  of  this 
debate,  and  excused  himself  that  he  might  not  be  there,  praying  that 
the  council  would  make  order  therein  notwithstanding  his  absence, 
and  he  would  assent  to  the  said  chancellor's  will  and  order;  and 
the  attorneys  were  asked  by  the  council  at  their  peril  whether 
they  would  make  further  answer  or  no,  and  they  said  they  would 
not ;  wherefore  the  said  Elizabeth  craved  judgment  and  redress  of 
her  grievances  with  damages  inasmuch  as  no  answer  is  made  to  her 
plaint,  for  that  by  no  law  may  a  party  reasonably  put  to  answer  another 
be  com^pelled  to  answer  and  defend  himself  if  he  will  not  so  do ;  and 
the  council  being  advised  that  they  may  not  well  make  an  end  without 
advising  the  king,  sent  to  him  the  whole  process  to  know  his  will  there- 
upon, who  addressed  his  writ  of  privy  seal  to  the  chancellor  and 
treasurer  commanding  them  to  proceed  to  final  debate  of  the  business 
according  to  the  submission  aforesaid,  and  he  would  confirm  what 
they  should  do  ;  by  virtue  of  which  command  and  of  the  said  submis- 
sion the  chancellor  and  treasurer  caused  the  justices,  Serjeants  and 
others  of  the  council  to  assemble,  before  whom  the  said  process  and 
writs  were  read  and  examined,  and  after  deliberation  had  it  was 
awarded  that  all  the  covenants  in  the  said  indenture  contained 
touching  the  400  maiks  of  land  which  the  said  Sir  Nicholas  and  Elizabeth 
should  have  were  to  be  performed  by  Sir  James  before  Michaelmas 
next  on  pain  of  6,000Z.  to  be  paid  to  the  king,  and  that  he  should 
pay  to  Sir  Nicholas  and  Elizabeth  full  damages  for  that  they  were  not 
performed,  neither  in  respect  of  the  said  tenements  in  demesne  at  any 
time  save  of  lOOl.  a  year,  nor  of  any  of  the  tenements  in  reversion 
after  that  Sir  James  had  power  to  perform  the  same  after  the  reversions 
fell  in,  and  in  case  Sir  James  should  no  longer  have  power  to  fulfil  those 
covenants  as  at  the  time  the  indenture  was  made,  he  should  on  the  pain 
aforesaid  substitute  other  lands  of  as  great  value  and  in  as  sure  manner 
as  therein  contained  ;  and  whereas  full  information  may  not  yet  be 
had  of  the  amount  of  the  said  damages,  it  was  agreed  that  the  execution 
thereof  be  stayed  until  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next,  and  the 
said  Elizabeth  Mas  told  to  come  before  the  council  at  that  time  to 
inform  them  of  such  damages  and  receive  their  award  in  that  behalf 
and  in  regard  to  her  other  grievances.  On  which  day  came  as  well 
the  said  James  as  the  said  Elizabeth  in  person  in  the  chamber  aforesaid, 
and  by  accord  between  them  made  before  the  chancellor,  the  treasurer, 
the  justices  and  others  of  the  council  it  is  agreed  that  the  said 
Sir  Nicholas  and  Elizabeth  shall  hold  the  tenements  in  Monyton, 
Dilwe  and  Fordeshome  as  of  the  value  of  200  marks  of  land  as  they 
held  the  same  before  the  above  award,  discharged  of  the  arrears  of 
the  rent  of  20/.  thereof  reserved  to  the  said  James,  that  Sir  James, 
Isabel  his  wife,  James  and  Thomas  their  sons  shall  before  the  month 
of  Easter  next  by  fines,  deeds,  records  and  licences  of  the  king  if  need 


40  EDWARD  III. 


239 


13GG. 


July  10. 

Lyadhurst. 


Membrane  15 — cont. 


be  make  to  them  for  their  lives  as  sure  an  estate  as  they  may  of  the 
heritage  that  was  of  Sir  William  Martyn  to  the  value  of  120Z.  a  year  ; 
and  tliat  Sir  James  shall  pay  them  1,000  marks  for  damages  ;  and 
further  Sir  James  granted  before  the  said  council  that  he  would  make 
no  alienation  nor  demise  of  his  lands  and  no  waste  of  his  woods  save 
for  needful  and  reasonable  cause  to  be  certified  to  the  chancellor  for 
the  time  being,  the  duke  of  Lancastre  and  the  earl  of  Arondell  and 
assented  to  by  them,  and  that  in  case  of  default  in  the  performance 
of  these  things  the  judgment  against  him  rendered  on  the  morrow  of 
St.  John  last  for  the  said  Elizabeth  should  be  executed  in  all  points, 
and  her  damages  should  be  declared.     French. 

To  James  de  Audeleye  lord  of  Heley.  Order,  under  a  pain  of  6,000?. 
to  be  paid  to  the  king's  use,  to  cause  certain  covenants  made  between 
him  and  Alice  de  Beamount  to  be  performed  by  the  quinzaine  of 
Michaelmas  next  ;  as  after  deliberation  and  advice  had  before  the  king 
and  council  touching  the  differences  and  debates  which  have  arisen 
between  the  said  James  and  Elizabeth  wife  of  Nicholas  de  Audeley 
his  eldest  son  touching  the  fulfilment  of  the  said  covenants  concerning 
the  grant  of  400  marks  of  land  and  rent  by  him  to  the  said  Nicholas 
and  Elizabeth,  according  to  an  indenture  made  between  the  said 
James  and  the  said  Alice  mother  of  Elizabeth,  both  parties  having 
submitted  tliemselves  to  the  order  of  the  king  and  council,  it  was 
determined  that  all  the  said  covenants  should  be  fully  performed 
by  that  date  under  the  pain  a,foresaid.  By  K.  and  C. 


Membrane  14. 

July  4.  To  William  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  to  take  of 

Westminster.  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  Robert  Barde  of  Osgotby  tenant  in  chief 
an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign 
her  dower  of  the  lands  of  her  said  husband  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  death  of  the  said  John  [sic),  sending  the  assignment  under  seal 
to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 


July  14.  To  Richard  de  Sutton  escheator  in  Lancashire.  Order,  upon  the 
Westminster,  petition  of  the  abbot  of  Whalleye,  if  by  inspection  of  divers  the  king's 
letters  patent  by  the  said  abbot  produced,  by  inquisition  or  otherwise 
be  may  be  assured  that  the  lands  etc.  mentioned  in  the  inquisition 
hereinafter  recited  are  the  same  as  in  the  said  letters  patent  contained 
or  parcel  thereof,  to  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to 
meddle  further  with  the  same  ;  as  the  king  lately  commanded  the 
escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  the  said  abbot's 
lands  were  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  what  lands  they  were, 
and  of  what  value,  and  he  certified  that  he  so  took  a  moiety  of  the 
manor  of  Billynton  which  the  said  abbot  acquired  of  Geoffrey  de  Scrope 
knight  value  20  marks  a  year,  a  messuage  and  20  acres  of  land  in 
Billynton  acquired  of  Richard  Daukynson  value  20s.  a  year,  a  third 
part  of  the  manor  of  Wysewall  acquired  of  Thomas  de  Arderne  knight 
value  6O5.  a  year,  the  manor  of  Standen  acquired  of  Henry  late  duke 
of  Lancastre  value  8Z.  a  year,  a  piece  of  wood  and  pasture  called 
Romesgreve  containing  about  200  acres  acquired  of  the  said  duke 
value  4O5.  a  year,  a  messuage  and  60  acres  of  land  acquired  of  John  del 
Clogh  and  John  del  WTa  {or  Wro)  in  Edesford  value  53s.  4c?.  a  year, 


240 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366. 


Membrane  14 — cont. 


six  messuages  and  40  acres  of  land  in  Cliderhou  acquired  of  Hugh  de 
Cliderhou  knight  value  4?.  a  year,  a  messuage  and  8  acres  of  land 
acquired  of  John  de  Kynerdale  in  Kjmerdale  value  8s.  a  year,  and 
a  messuage,  100  acres  of  land  and  20  acres  of  pasture  in  Coldecotes 
acquired  of  Nicholas  del  Bruche  and  Margaret  his  wife  value  60.s. 
a  year,  for  that  he  found  by  inquisition,  before  him  taken  of  his  office, 
that  the  said  abbot  has  licence  of  the  late  king  to  appropriate  to  him 
and  his  successors  201.  of  land  or  rent,  and  in  fraud  of  the  king  has 
by  virtue  thereof  appropriated  the  premises,  Avhich  exceed  the  value 
of  201.  ;  and  the  said  abbot  has  produced  divers  letters  of  the  king 
granting  licence  to  purchase  divers  lands  as  well  in  part  of  the  201.  afore- 
said as  otherwise,  alleging  that  all  the  premises  are  under  other  names 
fully  contained  therein,  and  that  so  he  has  acquired  none  mthout 
licence,  praying  that  the  king's  hand  should  be  removed.  By  C. 

July  15.  To  William  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Westmorland.  Order  not  to 
Westminster,  meddle  further  with  the  moiety  of  a  messuage  and  with  15  acres  of 
land  containing  the  moiety  of  one  bovate  in  Stirkeland  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  William  son  of  Alan  de  Bolteston, 
saving  to  the  king  the  issues  thereof  if  answer  is  not  yet  made  to  him 
for  them  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
the  said  William  son  of  Alan  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county 
in  chief,  but  held  the  premises  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  the  king, 
as  of  the  knights'  fees  "v^hich  were  of  William  de  Coucy  baron  of 
Kendale  then  in  the  king's  hand,  by  homage  and  fealty  and  suit 
of  the  court  of  Kirkeby  in  Kendale  every  three  weeks  and  by  the 
service  of  I2d.  and  one  pair  of  spurs  or  3d.  a  year  for  all  service, 
that  Sibyl  daughter  of  Christiana  daughter  of  the  said  deceased  is  his 
next  heir  and  of  full  age,  and  that  by  reason  of  her  nonage  answer 
has  heretofore  been  made  by  the  escheators  for  the  time  being  for  the 
issues  and  profits  of  the  premises  from  his  death,  who  died  in  the  first 
plague  about  the  feast  of  St.  Peter's  Chains  ;  and  at  another  time 
the  king  by  letters  patent  gave  to  John  de  Coupeland  (now  deceased) 
and  Joan  his  wife  (yet  living)  for  their  lives  all  the  lands  of  Wilham  de 
Coucy  in  that  county  with  the  knights'  fees  etc.  thereto  belonging. 
For  65.  8d.  for  her  marriage  paid  to  the  king  by  the  said  Sibyl,  who  is 
not  yet  married,  he  has  granted  her  that  she  may  marry  whom  she  will. 

June  20.         To  the  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  York.     Order  to  deliver  of  the  king's 

Westminster,  gift  to  William  Hervy  a  horse  whereupon  a  boy  was  riding  when  by 

accident  he  fell  off  and  was  killed,  wherefore  the  said  horse  is  by  the 

bailiff's  taken    into  the  king's   hand  as  a  deodand,  as  the  kii;g  has 

learned.  By  K.  on  the  information  of  John  atte  Lee 

steward  of  the  household. 

July  29.  John  Smyth  of  Bernak,  taken  and  imprisoned  in  the  king's  prison 
Westminster,  of  Rokyngham  for  a  trespass  of  venison  in  the  forest  of  Rokyngham, 
has  a  writ  addressed  to  William  de  Wykeham  clerk,  keeper  of  the  king's 
forest  this  side  of  Trent,  or  to  his  representative  in  the  said  forest, 
to  put  him  on  bail  until  the  coming  of  the  justices  for  pleas  of  the 
forest  in  Norhamptonshire. 

July  28.         To  Alan  de  BuckeshuU  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London,  or  to  his 

Westminster,  lieutenant.     Order  to  cause  William  de  Melborne  clerk,  imprisoned 

in  the  Tower  for  divers  excesses  and  wTongs  attempted  against  the 


40  EDWARD    III. 


241 


136C). 


Membrane  14 — cont. 


king  for  which  ho  is  indicted,  to  bo  set  free  by  a  mainprise,  if  ho  shall 
find  mainpernors  for  whom  tbo  constable  and  lieutenant  will  answer 
at  their  peril,  who  will  mainpern  to  have  his  body  before  the  king  and 
council  in  tlic  quinzainc  of  Michaelmas  to  answer  touching  those 
excesses  and  \\rongs,  certifying  such  mainprise  without  delay  in 
chancery  under  seal,  and  sending  again  this  writ ;  as  the  king's 
will  is  that  the  said  William  be  brought  from  the  Tower  to  answer 
touching  the  premises.  By  K. 

Oct.  7.  To  Thomas  de  Clyfton  chaplain.     Special  licence  [to  pass]  to  foreign 

Westminster,  parts  to  prosecute  and  defend  his  la\\ful  business  ;  as  lately  learning 
that  the  said  Thomas  purposed  to  pass  thither  to  prosecute  many 
matters  to  the  prejudice  of  the  kingandmany  of  his  people,  tlie  king  by 
writ  to  him  addressed  forbade  him  so  to  do  without  special  licence 
under  pain  of  forfeiture  of  life  and  limb,  or  to  prosecute  or  attempt 
aught  tending  to  the  hurt  of  the  king's  crown  and  dignity  or  of  the 
people  ;  but  the  said  Thomas  appearing  in  person  in  chancery  has 
found  mainpernors  before  the  king,  John  de  Brampton  clerk  and 
Michael  atte  Mode  of  New  Sarum,  who  have  mainperned  under  a  pain 
of  1001.  that  he  shall  not  there  prosecute  nor  attempt  aught  tending 
as  aforesaid.  By  C. 

Et  erat  patens.  ^  '-. 


Membrane  13. 

July  14.  To  Richard  de  Wydevylle  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.  Order 
Westminster,  to  cause  Adam  de  Basynges  to  have  seisin  of  his  purparty  of  the  manor 
and  advowson  of  Wykhamond,  kept  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  his 
nonage  ;  as  lately  on  the  finding  of  an  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator  at  the  king's  command,  that  Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  de 
W^olverton  knight  at  her  death  held  for  life  the  said  manor 
and  advowson,  which  are  held  in  chief,  as  jointly  enfeoffed  with 
her  said  husband  (likewise  deceased)  with  reversion  to  Margery 
wife  of  Roger  de  Louthe  and  Elizabeth  wife  of  William  de 
Cogenho,  daughters  and  next  heirs  of  the  said  John  and  of 
full  age,  the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  make,  a  partition 
thereof  into  two  equal  parts,  and  to  cause  the  said  Roger 
and  Margery,  William  and  Elizabeth  to  have  seisin  of  their  respective 
purparties  ;  and  after  on  the  finding  of  another  inquisition,  likewise 
by  him  taken  at  the  king's  command,  that  the  said  Joan  held  the 
premises  as  aforesaid  of  the  gift  of  John  de  Wolverton  the  elder  to  the 
said  John  and  Joan  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  their  bodies,  with  reversion 
for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  said  John  the  elder  and  his  heirs,  that  the 
said  John  and  Joan  had  issue  a  son  named  Ralph  and  the  two  daughters 
aforesaid,  that  the  said  Ralph  survived  his  father  and  died  in  the  life 
time  of  Joan  his  mother,  that  the  said  Margery  and  Elizabeth  daughters 
of  the  said  John  and  the  said  Joan  his  second  wife,  and  John  Wake  son 
of  Joan  one  daughter  of  the  same  John  and  of  Joan  his  first  wife,  Adam 
de  Basynges  son  of  Sara  their  second  daughter,  and  Elizabeth  daughter  of 
Cicely  their  third  daughter  are  next  heirs  of  the  said  John  the  elder,  and 
that  the  said  Margery  and  Elizabeth,  John  Wake  and  Elizabeth  [daughter 
of  Cicelj']  were  of  full  age  and  the  said  Adam  within  age,  the  king  by 
another  writ  commanded  the  escheator  to  keep  the  premises  in  his 
hand  until  further  order,  if  not  parted  and  delivered  by  virtue  of  the 
former  writ  to  the  said  Roger  and  Margery,  William  and  Elizabeth  ; 

E  16 


242  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366.  Membrane  13 — cont. 

and  subsequently  at  the  suit  of  John  Wake,  Thomas  de  Couelee  who 
has  taken  to  wife  the  said  EHzabeth  daughter  of  Cicely  and  the  said 
Elizabeth,  praying  that  their  purparties  should  be  assigned  and  delivered 
to  them  as  cousins  and  two  of  the  heirs  of  the  said  John  de  Wolverton 
the  elder,  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  give  notice  to  the  said  Roger 
and  Margery,  William  and  Elizabeth  to  be  before  the  king  in  chancery  in 
the  quinzaine  of  Easter  last  to  shew  cause  wherefore  the  premises  should 
not  be  parted  among  all  the  said  heirs  and  parceners  and  livery  be 
given  to  the  said  John  Wake,  Thomas  and  Elizabeth  of  the  purparties 
of  John  Wake  and  Elizabeth  wife  of  Thomas,  and  to  do  and  receive 
further  what  the  court  should  determine,  and  the  sheriff  returned  that 
he  gave  them  notice  accordingly  ;  and  at  that  day  the  said  Roger  and 
Margery  came  not,  and  the  said  [William]  appearing  in  person  and 
EHzabeth  his  wife  by  him  as  her  attorney  did  not  gainsay  that  the 
said  John  Wake,  Adam  and  Elizabeth  wife  of  Thomas  are  coheirs 
of  the  premises  with  the  said  Margery  and  Elizabeth  wife  of  William, 
wherefore  the  king  ordered  the  escheator,  in  the  presence  of  the  said 
heirs  and  parceners  if  upon  warning  they  would  attend,  to  make 
a  partition  of  the  premises  into  five  equal  parts,  and  to  cause 
the  said  William  and  Elizabeth,  John  Wake,  Thomas  and  Elizabeth 
to  have  seisin  of  their  respective  purparties,  keeping  in  the  king's 
hand  until  further  order  the  purparties  of  the  said  Roger  and  Margery 
and  of  the  said  Adam  ;  and  after  the  king  took  the  fealty  of  the  said 
Roger  for  the  purparty  of  Margery  his  wife  and  commanded  livery 
thereof  to  be  given  him,  keeping  in  the  king's  hand  until  further  order 
the  purparty  of  the  said  Adam  ;  and  at  another  time  the  said  Adam 
has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his 
fealty,  and  has  respited  his  homage  until  Michaelmas  next. 

July  16.  To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Wiltes.  Order,  if  the  manor 
Westminster,  of  Vasterne  contained  in  the  inquisition  hereinafter  recited  is  the 
same  manor  of  Fasterne  which  is  held  by  Queen  Philippa  of  the  king's 
grant,  to  remove  his  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage, 
one  carucate  of  land  and  3J  acres  of  meadow  in  Westcote  and  Estcote, 
delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator  at  the  king's  command,  that  Susan  who  was 
wife  of  John  Canynges  at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in 
her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  premises  for  hfe  as  jointly  enfeoffed 
with  her  said  husband  (likewise  deceased)  in  chief  as  of  the  manor  of 
Vasterne  by  the  service  of  rendering  \d.  yearly  to  the  king  at 
Midsummer  ;  and  the  king  by  letters  patent  has  granted  to  the  said 
queen  for  life  the  manor  of  Fasterne  in  that  county  with  the  knights' 
fees,  advowsons  etc.  thereto  pertaining. 

Membrane  12. 

July  28.  To  John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire  and  Bukingham- 
Westminster.  shire.  Order  to  deliver  to  Aubrey  de  Veer  the  manors  of  Saxton  co. 
Cantebrigge  and  Calverton  co.  Bukingham  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  death  of  Maud  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Veer,  together  with  the 
issues  thereof  taken  since  her  death  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  divers 
inquisitions,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Maud  at  her  death 
held  the  said  manors  for  life  in  chief  of  the  gift  of  John  de  Sutton  knight 
the  elder,  John  de  Pelham  parson  of  Wykham  and  Thomas  Twe  made 


40  EDWARD  TTI. 


243 


13CG,  Membrane  12 — cont. 

with  the  king's  hccnce,  witli  remainder  to  the  said  Aubrey  and  to  the 
heirs  male  of  liis  body  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  the  homage  and  fealty 
ot  tlic  said  Aubrey.  By  p.s.  [27072.] 

July  28.  To  Roger  do  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Essex.  Order  to  deliver  to 
Westminster.  Thomas  do  Vecr  earl  of  Oxford,  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Veer  late  earl  of 
Oxford,  the  manors  of  Stansted  Monfichet,  Dodyngherst  and  Earls  Colne 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Maud  who  was  wife  of  the 
said  John,  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since  her  death  ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  divers  inquisitions,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said 
manors,  which  are  held  in  chief,  were  held  by  the  said  Maud  for  life 
in  name  of  dower  by  endowmctit  of  her  said  husband,  Avitli  reversion 
to  the  said  Thomas  ;  and  the  king  has  at  another  time  taken  his 
homage  and  fealty,  and  has  commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of 
all  the  lands  of  his  said  father. 


July  27. 

Westminster. 


To  John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Sussex.  Order  to  remove  the  king's 
hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Laghton  and  the 
hundred  of  Sheplake,  delivering  to  Jolin  de  Sutton  knight  the  elder, 
Robert  de  Naylynghurst  and  John  de  Pelham  clerks  and  to  Thomas 
Tuwe  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  lately  commanded  the 
escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  the  said  manor 
and  hundred,  which  were  of  Maud  de  Veer  countess  of  Oxford,  were 
by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  he  returned  that  he  so  took 
them  for  that  the  said  countess,  who  held  the  same  in  chief  as  of  the 
honour  of  Aqiiila,  aliened  them  without  the  king's  licence  to  the  said 
John,  Robert,  John  and  Thomas,  and  for  no  other  cause  ;  and  in  the 
statute  published  at  Westminster  in  the  first  year  of  the  reign  it  is 
contained  that  no  man  shall  be  troubled  for  acquiring  lands  held  of 
the  king  as  of  an  honour. 


July  10. 


To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Essex.  Order  to  remove  the 
Westminster,  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Raureth 
which  was  of  William  Dureward,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  lately  ordered  the  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the 
cause  wherefore  that  manor  was  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand, 
and  he  certified  that  he  so  took  the  same  for  that  it  is  held  in  chief 
as  of  the  honour  of  Reylegh  by  knight  service,  and  he  learned  by  the 
report  of  certain  persons  that  the  said  William  held  the  same  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee,  and  in  fraud  of  the  statute  demised  and  gave  it  a  little 
before  his  death  to  Clement  Spice,  Roger  Keterych  and  others  and  to 
their  heirs,  in  order  to  deprive  the  king  of  the  wardship  and  marriage 
of  the  said  William's  heir,  who  is  within  age  ;  and  the  king  considers 
that   certificate   insufficient. 

July  12.  To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.  Order  to  stay  altogether  the  further 
Westminster,  holding  of  a  plea  before  them  between  John  de  Middelton  and  Christiana 
his  wife  and  John  Wendout  concerning  his  homage  and  fealty  for 
certain  tenements  in  Neuton  by  the  Sea  co.  Northumberland  ;  as  lately 
at  the  suit  of  John  Wendout,  praying  a  remedy  as  well  for  the  king 
as  for  himself,  shewing  that  he  holds  the  said  tenements  in  chief  by 
knight  service  [rendering]  to  the  king  homage  and  fealty  for  the  same, 
which  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Robert  Wendout 
and  after  by  process  in  chancery  dehvered  to  the  said  John  as  his 


244 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366. 


Membrane,  12 — cont. 


brother  and  heir  being  then  of  full  age,  and  that  the  said  John  de 
Middelton  and  Christiana  are  impleading  him  before  the  said  justices 
to  do  homage  and  fealty  to  them  for  the  same,  scheming  to  deprive  the 
king  of  that  homage  and  fealty,  the  king  commanded  the  justices 
to  continue  that  plea,  if  any  such  were  pending  before  them,  in  the 
state  in  which  it  then  was  until  the  parliament  next  ensuing  ;  and  by 
a  process  before  the  king  in  chancery,  upon  a  petition  presented  in  that 
parliament  by  the  said  John  de  Middelton  and  Christiana,  it  is  deter- 
mined that  the  said  services  ought  to  remain  with  the  king  and  his 
heirs,  and  that  John  de  Middelton  and  Christiana  should  take  nothing 
by  their  petition. 

July  2.  To  John  de  Olneye  escheator  in   Bukinghamshire.     Order,   upon 

Westminster,  the  petition  of  the  abbot  of  Wouborne,  if  by  inquisition  or  otherwise 
assured  that  the  facts  are  as  hereinafter  rehearsed,  to  remove  the 
king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage  and  15  acres 
of  land  of  the  said  abbot  in  Woketon,  delivering  to  the  abbot  and 
convent  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  the  king  commanded 
the  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  the  premises 
were  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  he  certified  that  he  took 
them  not,  but  that  William  de  Ot'teford  late  escheator  delivered  the 
same  to  him  by  indenture  wherein  it  is  contained  that  the  said  William 
took  the  premises  into  the  king's  hand  for  that  he  found  by  inquisition, 
before  him  taken  of  his  office,  that  after  the  statute  of  mortmain 
the  said  abbot  acquired  the  same  without  the  king's  licence  ;  and  now 
the  abbot  has  prayed  the  king  for  restitution  thereof,  as  he  and  the 
convent  and  all  their  predecessors  time  out  of  mind  long  before  the 
said  statute  had  and  held  the  said  messuage  and  15  acres,  making 
one  virgate  of  land,  as  may  appear  by  divers  charters  and  muniments 
of  their  feoffees  exhibited  before  the  king,  until  the  said  William 
unlawfully  took  the  same  as  aforesaid  into  the  king's  hand. 

July  2.  To  the  treasurer  and    the  barons  of    the  exchequer  and    to    the 

Westminster,  chamberlains.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  de  Chivereston, 
to  search  the  rolls  and  memoranda  of  the  exchequer  and  the  receipt 
concerning  the  matter,  and  to  account  with  him  as  well  for  the  sums 
due  from  him  to  the  king  as  for  the  sums  due  to  him  from  the  king, 
causing  allowance  to  be  made  him  in  the  sums  wherein  the  king  is  bound 
to  him  of  so  much  as  shall  clearly  and  of  just  cause  be  found  due 
from  him  to  the  king  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  the  said  John 
is  bound  to  the  king  for  prests  and  otherwise  in  divers  sums,  and  certain 
other  sums  are  due  to  him. 


June  23.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order,  upon  the 
Westminster,  petition  of  William  de  Gildeford,  executor  of  William  de  Farle  late 
keeper  of  the  king's  wardrobe  and  after  constable  of  Bourdeaux,  to 
search  the  rolls  and  memoranda  of  the  exchequer,  and  if  it  be  found 
that  his  statement  is  true,  to  allow  the  said  constable  the  lesser  sum 
to  him  due  in  the  greater  sum  by  him  due  at  the  exchequer  ;  as  the  said 
executor  has  shewn  that  the  said  constable  is  bound  in  a  great  sum 
by  his  account  of  that  office  rendered  at  the  exchequer,  and  that 
a  smaller  sum  is  due  to  him  from  the  king  of  the  surplus  of  his 
account  there  rendered  for  his  said  office  of  the  wardrobe,  praying 
allowance  thereof.  By  K.  and  C. 


40  EDWARD  III. 


245 


13G6.  Membrane  12 — cont. 

Aug.  15.         Order  to  tlic  slicrifT  of  Notyngluim  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  John  de  Wyrsop,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Aug.  15.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  York  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 
Westminster,  of  John  Marplcs,  who  ia  insufficiently  qualified. 

Sept.  2.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Henry  Cooke  of  Ely,  who  is  dead. 

Oct.  15.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  York  to  cause  two  verderers  in  the  forest  of 

Westminster.  Galtrys  to  be  elected  instead  of  Hamund  Hessey  and  Master  John  de 
Barton,  who  are  dead. 


Membrane  ll. 

Sept.  10.  To  William  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Yoikshire.  Order  not  to  meddle 
Westminster,  further  ^\  itli  the  manor  of  Colthorpe,  three  messuages  and  seven  bovates 
of  land  in  Miton,  and  divers  other  lands  in  Kyngeston  upon  Hull, 
Cotyngliam,  Neweland,  Hesell,  West  Elvele,  Feriby,  Colthorpe, 
Bikerton,  Sollebergh,  Southtouton  and  Smithton  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  William  de  la  Pole  the  elder  knight,  delivering 
to  Katherine  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  William  de  la  Pole 
at  his  death  held  the  premises  jointly  with  the  said  Katherine,  that 
in  his  will  he  bequeathed  to  her  seven  messuages  in  the  said  town  of 
Kyngeston  for  life,  and  that  the  tenements  in  Kyngeston  are  held 
of  the  king  in  burgage,  and  all  the  residue  of  others  than  the  king. 

To  Thomas  de  Wythornwyk  escheator  within  the  liberty  of  Holder- 
nesse.  Like  order  with  regard  to  the  manor  of  Rymeswell  and  divers 
lands  in  Beghom  and  Estwalsham ;  as  the  king  has  le?.rned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  William  de  la  Pole  the  elder 
knight  at  his  death  held  no  lands  within  that  liberty  in  chief  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  premises  jointly  with  Katherine  his 
wife,  and  that  the  same  are  not  held  of  the  king. 

To  William  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  not  to 
meddle  further  with  86  acres  of  land  and  meadow  and  4  acres  of  wood 
in  Hesille  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  William  de  la 
Pole  the  elder  knight,  delivering  to  Katherine  his  wife  and  Michael 
his  son  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  bj''  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  William  de  la  Pole  at  his  death 
held  the  premises  jointly  with  the  said  Katherine  and  Michael,  and  that 
the  same  are  not  held  of  the  king. 

To  Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Order  not  to  meddle 
further  with  2QI.  of  rent  in  Wesfwode  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the 
death  of  William  de  la  Pole  the  elder  knight,  delivering  to  Katherine 
his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  William  at  his  death  held  that 
rent  jointly  with  the  said  Katherine,  and  that  the  same  is  held  of  another 
than  the  king. 

Sept.  10.        To  Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.     Order  to  take  of 
Westminster.  Katherine  who  was  wife  of  William  de  la  Pole  the  elder  knight  tenant 


246 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366. 


Membrane  11 — cont. 


in  chief  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  hcence, 
and  to  assign  her  dower  of  all  the  lands  of  her  said  husband  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death,  in  presence  of  Michael  de  la  Pole 
his  son  and  heir  if  upon  warning  he  will  attend,  sending  the  assign- 
ment to  be  enrolled  upon  the  rolls  of  chancery. 

Sept.  29.         To  William  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  to  cause 

Sheen.        Thomas  son  and  heir  of  Walter  Faucomberge  tenant  in  chief  to  have 

seisin  of  the  lands  of  his  said  father  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his 

death  ;    as  tlie  said  Thomas  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator, 

and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [27122.] 

To  Richard  de  Wydeville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.     Like  order, 
as  the  said  Thomas  has  proved  his  age  before  William  de  Reygate. 

By  p.s.  (the  same  writ). 

The  like  to  John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Bedfordshire,  by  the  same 
writ. 

Oct.  3.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull. 

Westminster.  Order  of  the  issues  of  those  customs  to  pay  according  to  the  king's 
letters  patent  to  Michael  de  la  Pole,  son  of  William  de  la  Pole  the 
elder,  200  marks  for  Michaelmas  term  last  of  400  marks  yearly 
granted  by  the  king  to  the  said  William  and  Michael,  taking  his 
acquittance  ;  as  on  30  November  in  the  27th  year  of  the  reign,  in 
recompense  for  the  manor  of  Burstewyk  co.  York  and  for  certain  other 
manors  and  lands  by  the  king  lately  given  to  the  said  William  and  his 
heirs  and  after  by  him  surrendered  into  the  king's  hands,  the  king 
gave  to  the  said  William  and  Michael  and  to  their  heirs  400  marks 
of  yearly  rent  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions 
of  the  issues  of  the  ancient  custom  in  the  said  port  by  the  hands  of 
the  collectors  ;  which  William  is  dead,  as  is  found  by  divers  inquisitions. 

Oct.  8.  To  Richard  earl  of  Arundell.     Writ  de  intendendo,  commanding  him 

Westminster,  to  pay  to  Ingelram  de  Coucy  earl  of  Bedford  and  Isabel  his  wife, 
the  king's  daughter,  the  arrears  of  146?.  135.  4d.  yearly  of  the  farm 
of  400  marks  which  the  earl  of  Arundell  is  bound  to  pay  at  the  exchequer 
for  the  wardship  of  the  lands  of  Ankaret  who  was  wife  of  John 
Lestraunge  of  Blakemere,  and  to  pay  them  the  said  sum  henceforth 
at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  until  the  lawful  age  of 
John  son  of  John  Lestraunge  son  and  heir  of  the  said  John  and 
Ankaret  tenants  in  chief  ;  as  on  12  February  in  the  36th  year  of  his 
reign  the  king  of  his  favour  granted  by  letters  patent  to  the  said  Isabel 
that  sum  to  be  taken  every  year  as  aforesaid  by  the  hands  of  the  earl 
of  Arundell,  to  whom  he  committed  the  wardship  of  the  lands  in  the 
counties  of  Suthampton  and  Salop  which  the  said  Ankaret  held  of  the 
said  heir's  heritage,  and  which  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  her  death 
and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  heir. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Oct.  13.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland  to  cause  two  verderers  in  the 

Westminster,  king's  forest  of  Ingelwode  to  be  elected  instead  of  Adam  Parvyng 

knight  and  Richard  Beaulu,  who  are  indicted  for  a  trespass  of  vert 

within  the  said  forest,  as  Ralph  de  Neville  keeper  thereof  has  certified 

in  chancery. 


40  EDWARD  III.  247 


1300.  Membrane  11 — cont. 

Oct.  16.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Suthainpton  to  cause  a  coroner  to  bo  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  John  Fraunk,   who  is  dead. 

Nov.  24.        Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Essex  to  cause  a  verderer  in  the  forest  of 
■Westminster.  Waltham  to  be  elected  instead  of  Alexander  de  Goldyngham,  who  is 
abiding  over  sea. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Essex  to  cause  a  verderer  in  the  forest  of 
Waltham  to  be  elected  instead  of  John  de  Haveryng,  who  is  dead. 

Membrane  10. 

Oct.  20.  To  Roger  dc  Wolfrcton  escheator  in  p]ssex,  Hertfordshire,  Norffolk 
Westminster,  and  Suffolk.  Order  to  cause  Walter  son  and  heir  of  John  Fitz  Wauter, 
cousin  and  heir  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Robert  Fitz  Wauter,  to  have 
seisin  of  the  lands  as  well  of  the  said  John  his  father  as  of  the  said 
Joan  his  grandmother  tenants  in  chief,  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  their  death  ;  as  he  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator, 
and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.      By  p.s.  [27155.] 

To  Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Like  order,  as 
W^alter  son  of  John  Fitz  Wauter  has  proved  his  age  before  Roger  de 
Wolfreton.  By  p.s.  (the  same  writ.) 

The  like  to  the  following,  by  the  same  writ : 

Wilham   de   Reigate   escheator  in   Yorkshire,    Northumberland, 

Cumberland  and  Westmorland. 
John    de    Olneye    escheator    in    Bedfordshire,    Bukinghamshire, 

Cambridgeshire  and  Huntingdonshire. 
Richard  de  Wydevylle  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire. 
John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Oxford,  Berkshire, 

Suthampton  and   Wyltes. 
John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Surrey,  Sussex,  Kent  and  Middlesex. 
Henry  Lescrope  governor  of  the  town  of  Calais,  for  livery  of  lands 

of  the  said  Walter's  heritage  in  that  town. 
The  chancellor  of  Ireland  for  the  time  being  or  his  representative, 
for  livery  of  lands  of  the  said  Walter's  heritage  in  Ireland. 

Oct.  22.  To  John  de  Bekynton  escheator  in  Somerset.  Order  to  cause 
Westminster.  Adam  Pavely  to  have  seisin  of  a  toft  and  6  acres  of  land  in  Westcan- 
tokesheve  held  by  Peter  Damory  outlawed  for  felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
premises  have  been  in  his  hand  a  year  and  a  day  and  are  yet  in  his 
hand,  that  they  were  held  of  the  said  Adam,  and  that  the  escheator 
has  had  the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste,  and  ought  to  answer  to  the 
king  for  the  same. 

Oct.  24.  To  the  sheriffs,  mayors,  bailiffs,  ministers  and  other  the  king's 
Westminster,  lieges.  Order  to  suffer  Thomas  Makerell  and  divers  merchants  of 
Lumbardy,  or  their  attorney,  without  let  to  pass  to  Flanders  from 
the  port  of  Scardeburgh  with  a  ship  of  the  said  Thomas  and  38  sarplers 
25  jjockets  of  mooI  of  the  said  merchants  ;  as  the  king  has  by  writ 
commanded  the  bailiffs  of  Scardeburgh  and  the  collectors  of  customs 
there  to  cause  the  said  ship  and  wool,  which  was  laded  in  the  port  of 
Calais  to  be  taken  to  Flanders  after  payment  of  the  customs  due  to 


248 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366. 


Membrane  10 — cont. 


the  king,    and  was  driven  by  stress  of  weather  to  Scardeburgh  and 
there  arrested,  to  be  delivered  to  the  said  merchants  or  to  their  attorney 
to  make  their  advantage  thereof. 
Et  erat  fatens. 

Nov.  3.  To  John  de  Bekynton  escheator  in  Somerset  and  Dorset.     Order 

Westminster,  to  cause  John  son  of  Ehzabeth  mIio  was  wife  of  Robert  Salmon,  one 
of  the  sisters  and  heirs  of  Nicholas  le  Walsh  e,  to  have  seisin  of  all  the 
lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  said  mother's  death,  saving  to 
the  king  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  divers 
inquisitions,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  at  her  death  the  said  Elizabeth, 
who  died  on  10  October  in  the  22nd  year  of  the  reign,  held  in  her  demesne 
as  of  fee  20d.  of  rent  in  Athelardeston  co.  Somerset  in  chief  by  knight 
service,  the  eighth  part  of  an  eighth  part  of  113  acres  of  land  and  3  roods 
of  meadow  in  Hiwyschamflour  co.  Somerset,  the  fourth  part  of  a  fourth 
part  of  56J  acres  of  land  and  3  roods  of  meadow  in  the  same  town, 
the  eighth  part  of  an  eighth  part  of  a  messuage,  the  moiety  of  a  curtilage, 
40  acres  of  land,  2  acres  1  rood  of  meadow,  1|  rood  of  pasture  and  of 
2s.  M.  of  rent  in  Podyngton,  and  the  eighth  part  of  an  eighth  part  of 
two  messuages,  11  acres  of  land.,  1  rood  of  meadow,  3 J  roods  of  pasture 
and  20c?.  of  rent  in  Westchikerell  co.  Dorset  of  others  than  the  king, 
that  the  said  John  is  her  next  heir  and  of  the  age  of  22  years  and 
upwards,  and  that  by  reason  of  his  nonage  the  escheators  for  the  time 
being  have  occupied  the  premises  since  the  said  Elizabeth's  death, 
taking  the  issues  and  profits  and  answering  at  the  exchequer  for  the 
same  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  the  fealty  of  the  said  John,  and  respited 
his  homage  until  Michaelmas  next ;  and  for  half  a  mark  for  his  marriage 
paid  by  the  said  John,  who  is  not  yet  married  it  is  said,  the  king  has 
granted  him  that  he  may  marry  whomsoever  he  will. 

Oct.  28.  To  Wilham  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  to  deUver 
Westminster,  to  Wilham  de  Fournyvall,  brother  and  heir  of  Thomas  de  Fournyvall 
tenant  in  chief,  the  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  of  his  said  brother 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death,f  together  withf  one  knight's 
fee  in  Aston  now  held  by  William  de  Melton  knight  and  the  advowson 
of  Whistan  excepted,  which  the  king  has  assigned  in  dower  to  Joan 
who  was  wife  of  the  said  Thomas  ;  as  the  king  lately  took  the  homage 
and  fealty  of  William  de  Fournyvall  and  commanded  livery  to  be  given 
him  of  his  said  brother's  lands,  saving  to  the  said  Joan  her  dower  ; 
and  now  the  king  has  taken  of  her  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry 
without  his  licence,  and  has  assigned  her  dower  as  well  of  the  lands 
as  of  the  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  of  her  husband. 

The  like  to  Philip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  Herefordshire  and  the 
march  of  Wales  adjoining  concerning  one  knight's  fee  in  Pottelay 
and  Waluesthorp  co.  Hereford  held  by  John  Comyn,  the  moiety  of  one 
knight's  fee  in  Monsleye  co.  Hereford  lield  by  John  de  la  Lynde,  and 
the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  the  said  county  held  by  John  de 
Oldecastel,  Walter  Myles  '  chapeleyn '  and  William  Bareton  likewise 
assigned  to  the  said  Joan. 

The-  hke  to  the  following,  concerning  livery  to  the  said  William  of  all 
the  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  of  his  said  brother  : 

Edmund  Savage  escheator  in  Notinghamshire  and    Derbyshire, 
John  Bernard  escheator  in  Warwickshire  and  Leycestershire. 
John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire. 


40  EDWARD    III. 


249 


ISOC). 


Membrane  10 — cont. 


Oct.  13.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  view 
Westminster,  letters  patent  to  John  de  Newenhani  the  king's  clerk  made  by  Thomas 
de  Jk^llo  Campo  earl  of  AVarr[e\\yk],  one  of  the  chamberlains  of  the 
exchequer,  and  to  admit  the  said  John  to  exercise  that  office  in  the 
name  of  the  said  earl ;  as  lately  the  king  for  particular  causes,  while 
the  said  earl  was  in  remote  parts,  removed  Richard  de  Piryton  who 
^^•as  by  the  said  earl  appointed  his  substitute  in  that  office,  and 
caused  the  same  to  be  taken  into  his  hand,  and  it  is  now  restored 
to  the  said  earl,  m  ho  by  letters  patent  has  committed  that  office  to  the 
said  John  to  exercise  for  him  in  his  name. 

Oct.  29.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  agree 
Westminster,  witii  Henry  de  Aldryngton  of  Berkshire,  Thomas  atte  Crouche  of  London, 
John  Payn  of  London  and  Thomas  de  Wilteshire  of  London  con- 
cerning the  terms  of  payment  of  a  fine  of  300  marks  by  them  made 
with  the  king  to  be  paid  at  terms  to  be  agreed  upon  with  the  treasurer 
and  the  barons,  causing  the  terms  to  be  enrolled  in  the  exchequer, 
and  answer  to  be  made  to  the  king  for  the  said  sum  at  the  terms  so 
agreed  ;  as  the  persons  named  have  made  that  fine  for  pardon  of 
certain  trespasses  and  misprisions  for  which  the  said  Henry  and 
Elizabeth  his  wife,  Amory  de  Sancto  Amando  the  younger  knight, 
Richard  de  Adderbury  knight,  John  Golofre,  Richard  Brountz, 
\^'ilham  le  Wayte,  Robert  Bisshop,  William  Patriche,  John  Belle, 
John  Spenser  and  Thomas  le  Baillif  of  Ilvedon  were  indicted,  and  for 
which  they  have  the  king's  charters  of  pardon. 

Oct.  30.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.      Like  order 

Westminster,  to  agree  \\  ith  John  Wythegenemulle  concerning  the  terms  of  payment 
of  a  fine  of  20/.  by  him  made  for  pardon  of  certain  trespasses  and 
misprisions. 

Membrane  9. 

Sept.  20.  To  Richard  de  Sutton  escheator  in  Lancashire.  Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors,  lands  etc. 
of  the  abbot  of  Wlialleye  in  Billynton,  W^ysewall,  Standen,  Romesgreve, 
Edes ford,  Cliderhou,Kynerdale and Coldecotes  {as  above,  p.  239),  restor- 
ing any  issues  thereof  taken ;  as  lately  the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to 
certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  the  said  abbot's  lands  were 
by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  the  description  and  value  thereof, 
and  he  certified  that  he  so  took  the  premises  for  that  he  found  by 
inquisition,  before  him  taken  of  his  office,  that  the  abbot  has  licence 
of  the  late  king  to  appropriate  to  him  and  his  successors  20/.  of  land  or 
rent,  and  by  colour  thereof  has  in  fraud  of  the  king  appropriated  the 
premises  which  exceed  that  value  ;  and  the  said  abbot  produced  in 
chancery  divers  letters  of  the  king  concerning  licence  to  acquire  divers 
lands  as  well  in  part  of  the  said  20Z.  of  land  and  rent  as  otherwise, 
alleging  that  all  the  premises  under  other  names  are  therein  fully 
contained,  and  that  so  he  has  acquired  nothing  without  hcence  of  the 
king  or  his  forefathers,  praying  the  removal  of  the  king's  hand,  where- 
fore the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  make  inquisition  touching  the 
premises  ;  and  by  inquisition  so  made  at  his  command  it  is  found  that 
the  lands  specified  in  the  first  inquisition  are  the  same  which  are  con- 
tained in  the  said  letters  of  licence.  By  C, 

Nov.  3.  To   William   de   Raygate  escheator    in   Yorkshire.     Order   not    to 

Westminster,  intermeddle  further  with  the  lands  which  John  de  Leghe  at  his  death 


250 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366. 


Membrane  9 — cont. 


Oct.  25. 

Westminster 
Palace. 


Nov.  3. 
Westminster. 


held  of  tjie  honour  of  Pontefract,  and  which  were  taken  into  the  kinc^'s 
hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir  ;  as  Thomas 
son  and  heir  of  the  said  John,  tenant  in  chief  of  the  said  honour  lately 
in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  death  of  Henry  duke  of  Lancastre 
tenant  in  chief,  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king 
has  taken  the  homage  of  John  now  duke  of  Lancastre  his  son,  who  has 
taken  to  wife  Blanche  one  of  the  daughters  and  heirs  of  the  said  duke, 
for  the  lands  of  her  said  father  beyond  Trent. 

To  pope  Urban.  Notification  that  the  cathedral  church  of  St. 
Swythun  Winchester  being  lately  void  by  the  death  of  bishop  Wilham, 
the  prior  and  chapter  thereof,  after  first  craving  and  obtaining  the 
king's  licence,  have  elected  William  de  Wykeham  archdeacon  of  Lincoln 
to  be  bishop,  and  that  the  king  has  assented  to  that  election  ;  as  the 
metropolitan  see  of  Canterbury  is  likewise  void,  to  the  occupant  whereof 
it  pertains  to  confii-m  the  election  of  bishops  and  prelates  in  that 
province. 

Et  erat  patens. 

To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Boston.  Order  to 
pay  to  William  de  Aldeburgh  300  marks,  namely  100  marks  each  for 
the  38th,  39th  and  40th  years  of  the  reign,  taking  his  acquttance,  in 
accordance  with  the  king's  letters  patent  of  26  January  in  the  30th 
year  of  his  reign,  granting  of  his  favour  to  the  said  William  100  marks 
every  year  of  the  issues  of  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  that  port  at 
Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  for  his  life  or  until  the  king 
should  make  provision  for  him  of  100  marks  a  year  of  land  or  rent  for 
his  life  ;  as  it  is  found  by  certificate  of  the  treasurer  and  the  barons 
■  of  the  exchequer  sent  into  chancery  that,  after  search  made  of  the 
collectors'  accounts,  it  is  not  found  that  any  allowance  is  made  them 
during  the  years  aforesaid  of  any  sum  paid  to  the  said  William.      By  C, 

Nov.  4.  Mandate  to  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  to  view 

Westminster,  the  above  command,  and  to  allow  Thomas  Aubrey  and  Frederick  de 
Tilneye,  collectors  of  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  said  port,  in  their 
account  at  the  exchequer,  such  sums  as  they  shall  be  shewn  to  have 
paid  now  or  hereafter  to  the  said  William  by  virtue  of  the  same, 
receiving  of  them  his  letters  of  acquittance  witnessing  such  payment 
and  the  above  writ.  By  C. 

Membrane  8. 

Nov.  5,  To   John   de    Olneye   escheator   in  Bedfordshire,  Bukinghamshire, 

Westminster.  Cambridgeshire  and  Huntingdonshire.  Order  to  take  in  the  name 
of  the  king's  lordship  a  simple  seisin  in  the  palace  of  the  bishopric  of 
Ely,  now  void  by  the  translation  of  Simon  bishop  of  Ely  to  be  arch- 
bishop of  Canterbury,  and  not  to  meddle  by  reason  of  this  vacancy 
with  the  keeping  of  the  said  bishopric,  the  manors,  property  or  goods 
whatsoever  thereto  belonging,  but  to  suffer  the  prior  and  convent  of  Ely 
to  have  the  keeping  of  all  temporalities  of  the  bishopric  and  freely  to 
dispose  thereof,  according  to  the  king's  late  letters  patent  granting  to 
»  the  said  prior  and  convent  that  thenceforth  at  every  vacancy  by  death, 

cession,  resignation  or  otherwise  they  and  their  successors  should 
have  the  keeping  thereof  as  fully  as  any  bishop  had  in  past 
times  when  the    see    was  filled,    or    as    the   king   might   or  ought 


40  EDWARD  III.  251 


1300.  Membrane  8 — cont. 

to  have  if  tlie  same  were  kept  hi  lus  hand,  so  (hat  they 
should  have  full  and  free  administration  of  the  temporalities, 
property  and  goods  aforesaid,  taking  and  disposing  of  all  manner 
of  emoluments  as  they  sliould  see  best,  saving  to  the  king  the  knights' 
fees  held  of  the  bishopric  and  the  advo\\sons  of  churches  falling  in  during 
a  vacancy,  so  that  all  rents  and  yearly  services  of  such  fees  arising 
should  remain  to  the  prior  and  convent,  saving  also  to  the  king  escheats 
then  falling  in,  so  that  all  rents  and  yearly  services  thereof  arising 
should  likewise  remain  to  the  prior  and  convent,  rendering  to  the  king 
for  every  vacancy  if  lasting  one  whole  year  2,000/.,  and  if  a  less  time 
or  a  greater  pro  rata,  so  that  no  cscheator,  sheriff  or  other  the  king's 
bailiff  or  minister  should  meddle  with  the  keeping  of  the  said  bishopric, 
manors  etc.  by  reason  of  a  vacancy  except  that  the  cscheator  or  other 
his  minister  should  at  the  beginning  of  every  vacancy  in  the  name 
of  the  king's  lordship  take  a  simple  seisin  within  the  bishop's  palace 
at  Ely,  and  immediately  withdraw  without  taking  fealty  or  acknow- 
ledgment of  any  tenant  of  the  bishopric  or  aught  else,  so  that  he  should 
not  abide  there  longer  than  one  day  by  reason  of  that  seisin  nor  put 
any  substitute  in  his  room. 

The  like  to  the  following,  mutatis  mutandis,  the  clause  directing  them 
to  take  a  simple  seisin  being  omitted  : 

John  Louekyn  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  cscheator  therein. 

Roger   de    Wolfreton   cscheator   in  Norffolk,  Suffolk,  Essex  and 
Hertfordshire. 

To  the  knights,  free  men  and  other  tenants  of  the  bishopric  of  Ely. 
Writ  de  intendendo  in  favour  of  the  prior  and  convent  of  Ely,  so  long 
as  the  present  vacancy  shall  last,  according  to  the  king's  late  letters 
patent  (as  above)  ;  as  the  bishojjric  of  Ely  is  now  void  by  the  transla- 
tion of  bishop  Simon  by  the  pope  to  be  archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
and  the  king's  will  is  that  the  said  prior  and  convent  have  the  keeping 
thereof  and  of  the  temporalities  and  all  things  thereto  belonging. 

Nov.  10.  To  the  bailiffs  of  Lincoln  for  the  time  being.  Order  of  the  farm 
Westminster,  of  that  city  to  pay  40.S.  every  year  to  a  vicar  of  the  church  of  St.  Mary 
Lincoln  celebrating  therein  for  the  estate  of  the  late  king,  of  Isabel 
the  queen  mother  and  of  the  king,  and  for  the  souls  of  his 
ancestors  and  heirs  and  of  all  the  faithful  departed,  taking  his 
acquittance  ;  as  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  said  church  granted  to 
the  late  king  a  vicar  to  celebrate  as  afoi'esaid,  such  vicar  to  be  nomin- 
ated by  the  said  king  and  his  heirs,  and  the  said  king  of  his  grace 
granted  him  by  letters  patent  405.  a  year  of  the  farm  of  the  said  city 
to  be  taken  by  the  hands  of  the  bailiffs  thereof  to  increase  his  main- 
tenance until  other  order  should  be  taken  for  his  estate;  and  after  on 
20  March  in  the  20th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  confirmed  his  father's 
grant,  wilhng  that  the  said  vicar  should  have  the  sum  aforesaid. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Nov.  18.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  deduct 
Westminster,  from  a  sum  of  137/.  laid  out  by  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of 
Newcastle  upon  Tyne  upon  the  building  of  a  house  upon  le  Sandhull 
by  the  river  Tyne  contiguous  to  the  town,  wall  15/.  taken  of  the 
issues  of  the  murage  of  the  town,  and  to  allow  them  the  residue  in  their 
account  at  the  exchequer  of  the  issues  of  the  said  customs  ;  as  lately 
at  the  suit  of  the  mayor  of  the  said  town  and  of  the  said  collectors, 


252 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366. 


Membrane  8 — cont. 


Nov.  21. 

Westminsler. 


alleging  that  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  to  them  addressed  concerning 
the  completion  of  the  said  house  then  begun,  for  troning  and  weighing 
wool  there  and  for  safe  guard  of  the  town,  of  the  issues  of  the  said 
murage,  they  caused  the  same  to  be  built  up  to  the  roof,  which  must 
needs  be  made  of  lead,  and  thereon  laid  out  137/.  and  upwards,  that 
all  issues  of  the  murage  during  the  year  did  not  amount  to  15/.,  and  that 
the  collectors  may  not  have  allowance  in  their  said  account  for  the  money 
so  laid  out  over  and  above  the  said  15/.,  the  king  appointed  Ralph  de 
Neville,  John  Moubray,  John  de  Stry velyn  and  Roger  de  Wyderyngton, 
three  and  two  of  them  of  whom  the  said  Ralph  and  John  Moubray 
should  be  one,  to  make  inquisition  by  true  men  of  Northumberland 
concerning  the  building  and  completion  of  the  said  house ;  and  now  it  is 
found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  John  Moubray  and  John  de  Stryvelyn, 
that  the  house  is  needed  for  the  purposes  aforesaid,  that  from  Michael- 
mas in  the  38th  year  of  the  reign  to  Michaelmas  in  the  39th  year  the 
mayor  and  collectors  laid  out  upon  the  building  thereof  137/.,  that 
there  is  yet  to  be  laid  out  upon  its  completion  as  well  for  roofing  with 
lead  as  for  work  of  carpenters,  masons  etc.  212/.  15s.  3|(Z.,  and  that 
the  mayor  and  collectors  did  not  nor  might  not  within  the  said  year 
receive  of  the  murage  of  the  town  more  than  15/. 

To  the  said  mayor  and  collectors  for  the  time  being.  Order  of  the 
issues  of  the  murage  of  the  said  to\Mi  and  of  the  customs  of  the  port  to 
cause  what  remains  to  be  done  concerning  the  said  house  to  be  completed 
without  delay,  and  the  king  will  cause  allowance  to  be  made  of  the 
costs  thereon  laid  out  in  their  account  at  the  exchequer  by  view  and 
testimony  of  John  de  Preston  the  king's  controller  in  the  said  port ; 
as  lately  etc.  (as  above,  mutatis  mutandis),  and  the  king  has  commanded 
the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  (as  above)  :  and  he  would 
that  the  works  of  the  said  house  be  completed. 

Membrane  7. 

Dec.  3.  To  all  free  men  and  tenants  in  the  hundred  of  Ely  of  the  bishopric  of 

Westminster.  Ely,  now  void  by  the  translation  of  bishop  Simon  to  be  archbishop 
of  Canterbury  and  in  the  king's  hand.  Writ  de  intendendo  in  favour 
of  the  prior  and  convent  of  Ely,  who  have  the  keeping  of  the  said 
bishopric  and  the  temporalities  thereof  during  this  vacancy,  as  well 
in  regard  to  acknowledgments  of  the  lordship  of  the  bishopric  as  to 
services  etc.  which  they  are  bound  or  ought  to  do  to  the  king  by  reason 
of  the  vacancy,  paying  to  them  in  the  king's  name  that  which  they  are 
bound  to  pay  to  him,  for  the  king  would  thereof  discharge  them  toward 
himself,  and  so  behaving  that  the  payment  which  the  said  prior  and 
convent  are  bound  to  make  to  the  king  be  not  hindered  or  delayed 
by  their  default,  whereby  the  king  should  have  matter  of  wrath  against 
them  ;  as  lately  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  to  the  said  prior  and 
convent  that,  at  every  vacancy  of  the  said  bishopric  by  death,  cession, 
resignation  or  otherwise,  they  and  their  successors  should  have  the 
keeping  thereof,  and  of  all  the  temporahties  thereof  with  all  things  thereto 
belonging  as  fuUy  as  any  bishcp  had  in  times  past  when  the  see  was 
filled,  or  the  king  might  or  ought  to  have  in  times  of  vacancy  if  the 
keeping  were  in  his  hand,  so  that  the  prior  and  convent  should  have 
free  disposal  of  the  temporahties,  goods  and  property  of  the  bishopric, 
taking  &nd  dealing  M'ith  all  emoluments  thereof  as  should  to  them  seem 
best,  saving  to  the  king  the  knights'  fees  held  of  the  bishopric  and  the 


40  EDWART)  III.  '  253 


1366.  Membrane  7 — cont. 

advowsons  of  churches  then  falling  in,  so  tliat  the  rents  and  yearly 
services  of  such  fees  arising  should  remain  to  the  prior  and  convent, 
for  a  set  sum  to  be  rendered  to  the  king. 

Oct.  3.  To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  the  county  of  Suthampton.     Order 

Westminster,  to  deliver  (o  Hugh  Tyrel,  brother  and  lieir  of  Jolin  Tyrel  tenant  in 
chief,  335.  8J(/.  of  rent,  tlie  moiety  of  67-5.  5fZ.  of  rent  arising  of  three 
virgates  of  land  in  Tangele,  and  12s.  Q\'l.  of  rent,  the  moiety  of  tlie  rent 
of  one  virgate  and  a  half  of  land  in  the  said  town,  from  3  December  in 
the  37th  year  of  the  reign  if  the  same  is  of  the  purparty  of  the  said 
Hugh  ;  as  on  that  day,  the  age  of  the  said  Hugh  being  proved,  the 
king  took  his  fealty,  respited  his  homage,  and  by  writ  commanded 
the  escheator  that  seisin  should  be  given  him  of  the  lands  of  his 
said  brother  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  said  John's  death 
and  by  reason  of  the  said  Hugh's  nonage  ;  and  after  by  complaint 
of  the  said  Hugh  learning  that  the  escheator  has  put  off  the  livery 
to  him  of  certain  lands  of  his  heritage  in  Tangele  which  were  in  the 
king's  hand  in  name  of  wardship  by  reason  of  his  nonage,  though  he 
many  times  sued  to  the  escheator  to  have  livery  thereof  accord- 
ing to  the  king's  command,  the  king  ordered  the  escheator  a 
second  time  to  deliver  to  him  the  lands  of  his  brother  as  aforesaid  with 
the  issues  thereof  taken  since  the  said  day,  or  to  signify  the  cause 
wherefore  he  did  not  obey  the  command  to  him  addressed,  and  the 
escheator  returned  that  he  did  not  deliver  to  Hugh  the  said  rents  for 
that  John  his  brother  after  proof  of  his  age  died  before  having  liveiy 
thereof,  and  the  said  writ  made  no  mention  but  of  lands  whereof  the 
said  John  at  his  death  was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  and  that 
the  rent  aforesaid  was  and  is  in  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John 
Wake  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  Hugh  his  cousin  and  one 
of  his  heirs  as  of  his  purparty  ;  and  it  is  plain  by  inquisitions  taken 
after  John  Wake's  death,  who  at  his  death  held  the  said  rent  in  his 
desmesne  as  of  fee,  that  John  Wake  died  long  before  the  death  of 
the  said  John  Tyrel,  and  that  the  rent  descended  by  inheritance  to 
John  Tyre],  and  so  he  was  thereof  seised  as  of  right,  although  in  his 
life  time  he  did  not  sue  possession  thereof  out  of  the  king's  hands. 

Membrane  6. 

Dec.  1.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order,  upon  the 

Westminster,  petition  of  William  Haule  sheriff  of  Lincoln,  to  receive  of  him  20/., 
and  to  cause  him  to  have  allowance  for  the  time  he  has  been 
sheriff  of  certain  sums  by  him  craved  for  the  decay  of  the  profit 
of  divers  wapentakes,  discharging  him  thereof,  the  king's  commission 
to  him  or  any  articles  hereinafter  rehearsed  to  the  contrary  notwith- 
standing, and  not  to  cause  the  said  William,  his  heirs  and  executors 
and  the  tenants  of  his  lands  hereafter  to  be  impeached  or  vexed  by 
colour  of  such  articles,  suffering  him  to  be  thereof  quit ;  as  two  farms 
are  demanded  by  exchequer  summons  under  the  name  of  the  sheriff 
of  Lincoln  for  the  time  being,  one  called  the  farm  fost  terras  datas 
containing  144/.  125.  4f(Z.,  the  other  called  the  farm  of  the  county 
by  tale  containing  140/.,  which  farms  took  their  origin  of  old  time, 
belong  merely  to  the  crown  and  are  parcel  thereof,  and  the  king,  his 
ancestors  and  heirs,  are  or  ought  to  be  thereof  contented  yearly  without 
any  deduction,  and  were  so  contented  time  out  of  mind  until  the 


254  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366.  Membrane  6 — cont. 

18th  year  of  the  late  king,  when  in  the  month  of  May  he  committed  the 
said  county  to  Reynold  de  Donyngton  during  pleasure  to  answer  for  the 
issues  and  profits  thereof  arising,  and  the  said  Reynold  by  virtue  of 
that  commission  accounted  as  apprower  for  the  said  issues  and  profits 
as  parcel  of  another  farm  of  200Z.  called  the  farm  for  the  profit  of  the 
county  which  Avas  then  and  formerly  current  in  demand  under  the 
sheriff's  name  since  the  52nd  year  of  King  Henry  [III],  whereof  answer 
had  yearly  been  made  and  the  said  late  king  and  his  ancestors  contented, 
charging  himself  Avith  a  certain  sum  of  the  profits  aforesaid  over  and 
above  the  two  first  farms  whereof  from  18  Edward  II  to  16  Edward  III 
the  king  was  yearly  contented  in  full  by  the  sheriff  for  the  time  being  ; 
and  though  the  sheriff  in  the  said  16th  year  and  his  successors  were 
bound  yearly  to  content  the  king  of  the  two  first  farms  in  full  without 
diminution,  the  said  sheriff  and  many  of  his  successors,  one  copying 
another,  have  accounted  divers  sums,  alleged  to  be  charged  upon  them, 
as  the  decay  of  the  profits  of  the  said  wapentakes,  which  sums  are  not 
parcel  of  the  two  first  farms  but  of  the  said  farm  of  200/,  whereof 
alone  they  Mere  approwers,  craving  to  be  thereof  discharged,  and  after 
inquisition  first  made  touching  such  decays  obtained  and  brought  into 
account  their  discharge  and  allowance  thereof  as  parcel  of  the  two  first 
farms,  and  also  40  marks  yearly  for  their  fee  as  approwers,  and  so 
much  was  deducted  from  those  farms,  the  court  not  understanding 
that  allowance  of  such  sums  was  to  be  made  to  any  sheriff,  nor  the 
said  two  farms  to  be  thenceforth  diminished,  nor  the  said  fee  to  be 
taken  while  such  sums  were  pending  without  debate,  no  allowance, 
discharge  or  inquisition  having  been  made  ;   and  the  said  William 
having  no  knowledge  of  the  premises,  in  his  accounts  for  the  38th,  39th 
and  40th  years  as  sheriff  has  without  fraud  or  covin  craved  allowance 
of  divers  sums  for  the  decay  aforesaid  and  for  his  fee,  which  must  be 
deducted  from  the  two  first  farms,  supposing  such  farms  {sic)  to  be 
parcel  thereof  as  they  are  not,  and  that  he  was  apprower  thereof  as 
he  was  not,  but  was  farmer  thereof  to  answer  to  the  king  for  those  farms 
as  do  the  sheriffs  of  other  counties,  and  as  in  his  commission  may  appear  ; 
and  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  for  these  causes  have  put  off  pro- 
ceeding to  make  him  any  allowance  for  such  decay  or  for  his  fee,  and 
have  refused  so  to  do,  wherefore  he  has  prayed  for  remedy,  as  he  has 
craved  allowance  for  the  decay  aforesaid  after  the  copy  of  his  predeces- 
sors in  office  as  they  for  long  time  craved  and  had,  making  no  new  and 
greater  claim  in  regard  to  such  decay,  so  that  the  same  took  not  be- 
ginning in  his  time  nor  was  he  the  cause  of  its  arising  ;    and  in  con- 
sideration that  the  said  sheriff's  predecessors  in  office  have  brought 
into  account  allowance  of  such  sums  for  the  decay  aforesaid  whereof, 
by  the  simplicity  and  ignorance  of  the  ministers  of  the  court  not  under- 
standing the  matter,  the  greater  part  was  deducted  from  the  two  first 
farms,  the  matter  not  originating  in  his  time,  that  the  said  William 
obtained  the  allowance  according  to  copy  being  without  knowledge 
of  the  subtleties  aforesaid,  and  that  if  inquisition  were  made  as  afore- 
time the  king  may  by  such  ignorance  lose  the  greater  part  of  the  two 
first  farms,  also  for  20/.  to  be  spontaneously  paid  by  him  in  order  to  be 
spared  the  expense  and  labour  of  such  inquisitions  and  the  processes 
ensuing  thereupon,  the  king  of  his  favour  has  granted  him  allowance 
and  discharge  as  aforesaid,  and  that  he  shall  not  be  impeached  for  any 
articles  hereinbefore  rehearsed.     Proviso  that  henceforward  answer 
shall  yearly  be  made  for  the  two  first  farms  in  full,  and  for  so  much  of 


40  EDWARD  III. 


265 


1366. 


Membrane  6 — cont. 


the  issues  and  profits  pertaining  to  the  third  farm  of  200/.  as  the  sherifTa 
may  levy,  not  charging  them  with  more  than  they  sliall  be  able  to 
take  thereof. 


Dec.  6. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  5. 
Westminster. 


To  the  treasurer  and  the  batons  of  the  exchequer.  Like  order, 
upon  the  petition  of  Thomas  do  Fulnetby  late  sheriff  of  Lincoln,  to 
receive  of  him  20/.,  and  to  cause  him  to  have  allowance  for  the  sums 
likewise  craved  by  him  for  the  31st  and  32nd  years  of  the  reign  ;  as 
two  farms  etc.  (as  above) ;  and  tlie  said  late  sheriff,  having  no  knowledge 
of  the  premises,  craved  allowance  of  divers  sums  for  the  three  last 
quarters  of  the  29th  year  and  the  30th  year,  and  by  judgment  of 
the  court  brought  allowance  thereof  into  account,  and  in  liis  accounts 
for  the  said  31st  and  32nd  years  craved  allowance  of  divers  other  sums 
whereof  debate  is  yet  to  be  had  etc. 

To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Bristol.  Order  to  dearrest  and  deliver 
to  Hurtinus  Huchewa  of  Spain  a  ship  called  '  Seint  Youn  '  by  them 
arrested  whereof  he  is  master  with  the  gear  and  all  property  and  goods 
therein  found  at  the  time  of  the  arrest,  suffering  him  without  let  to 
pass  therewith  whither  he  will  ;  as  lately  the  king  commanded  the  said 
mayor  and  bailiffs  to  certify  in  chancery  the  manner  and  cause  of  that 
arrest  in  the  port  of  Bristol,  and  they  certified  that  they  arrested  the 
said  ship  as  the  goods  of  the  king's  enemies,  and  are  detaining  the  same 
under  arrest  until  his  further  order,  at  the  suit  of  William  Canynges 
and  Ellis  Spelly  merchants  of  Bristol,  who  before  them  complained 
that  John  Hoghton  and  John  Krymmok  merchants  and  the 
servants  of  the  said  William  and  Ellis  touched  at  the  port 
of  Lusshebone  in  a  ship  of  the  said  William  and  Ellis  of 
120  tuns  called  la  Clement  of  Bristol,  Walter  Peny  master,  that 
certain  the  king's  enemies  of  the  dominion  of  Henry  now  king  of  Castile 
took  their  said  ship,  plundered  and  by  stealth  carried  away  all  their 
goods  and  merchandise  therein,  for  ten  days  and  more  bound  and 
imprisoned  the  said  master  and  merchants  and  the  seamen  to  the 
number  of  28  men  until  they  made  them  fines  and  ransoms,  and  after 
taking  the  same  burnt  the  said  ship  with  its  gear  ;  and  an  alliance 
has  been  made  between  the  king  and  Peter  the  true  king  of  Castell 
for  them  and  their  subjects,  and  the  king  would  not  that  this  alliance 
be  weakened  by  reason  of  faults  committed  by  the  said  Henry  the 
pretended  king  thereof  and  by  his  adherents,  but  that  it  be  observed 
so  far  as  in  him  lies.  By  C. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk.  Order  to  cause  Thomas  bishop  of  Norwich 
to  have  seisin  of  one  acre  of  land  in  Blofeld  held  by  Henry  atte  Fen, 
who  abjured  the  realm  for  a  felony  by  him  committed  it  is  said  ;  as 
the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  sheriff,  that  the 
said  land  has  been  in  his  hand  a  year  and  a  day  and  is  yet  in  his  hand, 
that  the  said  Henry  held  it  of  the  said  bishop,  and  that  Edmund  Cote 
of  Biofeld  had  the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste,  and  ought  to  answer 
to  the  king  for  the  same. 

Vacated  because  otherwise  below. 


Membrane  5. 

Nov.  5.  To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Wiltes.     Order  not  to  meddle 

Westminster,  further  with  a  messuage,  8  acres  and  one  carucate  and  a  half  of  land  in 


256 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366i 


Nov.  18. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  6. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  5 — cont. 

Netherstratton  and  divers  other  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
the  death  of  John  de  Cannyngs  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  Thomas 
son  of  the  said  Thomas  Cannyngs  (sic)*,  saving  to  the  king  any  rehef 
to  him  due  of  the  premises  in  Netherstratton,  and  dehvering  up  any 
issues  taken  of  the  other  lands  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in 
that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  premises  in 
Netherstratton  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford,  cousin  and 
heir  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun  late  earl  tenant  in  chief  and  late  a  minor  in 
the  king's  wardship,  in  socage  and  by  the  service  of  making  suit  at  the 
said  earl's  court  there,  and  divers  other  lands  of  other  lords,  and  that 
the  said  Thomas  son  of  Thomas  is  next  heir  of  the  said  John,  and 
of  the  age  of  15  and  upwards  ;  and  on  proof  of  the  age  of  the  now 
earl,  the  king  took  his  homage,  and  commanded  livery  to  be  given 
him  of  the  lands  of  the  said  late  earl  his  uncle. 

To  John  Bernard  escheator  in  Warwickshire  and  Leycestershire. 
Order  to  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the 
lands  which  Robert  Burdet  knight  held  of  the  heir  of  Maud  de  Holand 
tenant  in  chief,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of 
the  nonage  of  Robert  Burdet  his  son  and  heir ;  as  the  said  Robert,  son 
of  the  said  Robert  tenant  by  knight  service  of  the  said  Maud  while  her 
lands  were  in  the  king's  hand,  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator, 
and  the  king  has  at  another  time  taken  the  homage  of  Robert  de  Holand, 
son  and  heir  of  the  said  Maud,  and  has  commanded  livery  to  be  given 
him  of  his  said  mother's  lands. 

To  John  Charnels  the  king's  clerk.  Order  not  to  meddle  further  with 
the  lands  of  Robert  Burdet  knight,  tenant  by  knight  service  of  the  heir 
of  Maud  de  Holand  tenant  in  chief  while  her  lands  were  in 
the  king's  hand,  lately  committed  by  the  king  to  the  said  John  for 
a  set  yearly  farm  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  Robert's  heir  ;  as 
Robert  his  son  and  heir  has  proved  his  age  before  John  Bernard 
escheator  in  Warwickshire. 

To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.  Order,  if  a  writ  of  quare  impedit 
be  pending  before  them  against  the  prior  of  Plumpton  co.  Devon 
concerning  the  presentation  to  the  vicarage  of  Sutton  by  Plummuth, 
obtained  before  the  restitution  of  the  priory  and  the  temporalities 
thereof  to  the  said  prior,  to  stay  altogether  the  process  thereupon 
begun,  and  the  further  execution  thereof  ;  as  for  particular  causes 
the  said  temporalities  were  lately  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and 
after  debate  had  before  the  king  in  his  court  that  the  said 
priory  was  of  the  foundation  of  former  kings  his  predecessors, 
and  that  it  is  and  ought  to  be  of  his  patronage,  on  4  February 
last  the  king  of  his  favour  restored  the  priory  and  the  tem- 
poralities to  Ralph  Persoun  who  was  with  the  king's  licence  and 
assent  elected  to  be  prior  and  confirmed,  when  he  had  done  fealty  to 
the  king,  as  in  the  record  and  process  thereupon  had  and  in  the  king's 
letters  patent  is  contained  ;  and  after  by  other  letters  patent  the  king 
so  far  as  in  him  lies  has  confirmed  the  estate  and  possession  of  Ralph 
de  Ryngestede  in  the  said  vicarage,  not  willing  that  he  should  be 
impeached  or  troubled  by  the  king,  his  heirs  or  ministers  whatsoever 

*  He  was  son  and.  heir  of  John  the  deceased,,  as  the  inquisition  shews. 


40  EDWARD  III. 


257 


1366. 


Membrane  5 — cont. 


Nov.  18. 

Wostminstor. 


Nov.  21. 

Westminster. 


touching  his  possession  of  the  same  by  reason  of  any  right  or  title  of 
the  king  ;  and  now  the  king  lias  been  informed  that  a  writ  as  aforesaid 
is  being  sued  before  the  justices  by  certain  persons,  that  the  said 
prior  should  suffer  the  king  to  present  to  the  said  vicarage  which  is 
void  and  in  the  king's  gift  by  reason  of  the  late  vacancy  of  the  said 
priory,  and  the  king  would  not  that  any  attempt  should  be  made  by 
him  or  in  his  name  against  his  confirmation  aforesaid. 

To  John  de  Bekynton  escheator  in  Dorset.  Order  to  remove  the 
king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  4  marks  of  rent  of  John 
Gest  in  8wyre,  restoring  to  the  said  John  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  lately  the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the 
cause  wherefore  that  rent  was  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  he 
signified  that  he  so  took  the  same  for  that  Thomas  Colbrond  his 
representative  learned  by  inquisition  that  William  de  Monte  Acuto 
earl  of  Salisbury,  \\\\o  held  the  manor  of  Swyre  in  chief  by  knight 
service,  without  the  king's  licence  therewith  charged  the  said  manor 
to  John  Gest  and  the  heirs  of  his  body  ;  and  the  said  cause,  being 
read  before  the  council  and  examined,  is  considered  insufficient. 

To  William  de  Wychyngham  and  Edmund  de  Chelreye  justices  of 
assize  in  Dorset.  Order  to  proceed  in  an  assize  before  them  arraigned 
by  John  Gest  against  Edmund  Dummere  and  others  concerning  his 
freehold  in  Swyre,  alleging  that  he  was  by  them  disseised  of  a  rent  of 
4  marks  there,  in  which  assize  they  have  delayed  to  proceed  by  reason 
of  an  allegation  before  them  made  that  the  said  rent  was  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  for  the  cause  [above  mentioned),  doing  justice  to  the 
parties,  the  allegation  aforesaid  or  the  taking  of  the  said  rent  not- 
withstanding ;  as  lately  the  king  ordered  John  de  Bekynton  escheator 
in  that  county  to  certify  etc.  {as  above)  ;  and  the  king  has  ordered 
the  escheator  to  remove  his  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the 
said  rent. 


Membrane  4. 

Dec.  12,  To  Reynold  de  Sholdham  searcher  of  the  king's  forfeitures  in  the 

Westminster,  port  of  London.  Order  to  dearrest  and  deliver  to  the  master  and  to 
John  Bachecote  burgess  of  Calais,  to  make  their  advantage  thereof, 
a  ship  and  36  tuns  1  pipe  of  woad  by  him  arrested,  that  arrest  notwith- 
standing ;  as  lately  the  king  ordered  the  searcher  to  certify  in  chancery 
the  manner  and  cause  of  the  arrest  of  the  woad  aforesaid,  and  he  [returned 
that]  information  was  given  him  that  a  ship  of  John  Rys  touched  in 
the  port  of  London  laded  with  37  tuns  1  pipe  of  woad  of  Ajidrew 
Frerote  and  Peter  Page  merchants  of  Amiens,  and  by  search  he  found 
in  the  said  ship  37  tuns  1  pipe  of  wine  uncustomed  except  one  tun, 
for  which  cause  he  arrested  the  residue  on  the  king's  behalf  ;  and  the 
king  by  writ  commanded  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London  to  make 
inquisition  touching  the  circumstances  by  the  oath  of  true  men  as  well 
merchants  of  Caleys  in  London  as  others  of  their  bailiwick,  native  and 
alien,  whether  the  wine  is  of  the  said  Andrew  and  Peter,  of  the  said 
John  or  of  others,  and  if  so  of  whom,  in  what  parts  the  ship  was  laded 
with  the  said  woad,  whether  custom  was  paid  thereon,  and  if  so  where, 
to  whom,  when  and  in  what  manner  ;  and  by  inquisition  so  taken  it 
is  found  that  36  tuns  1  pipe  of  woad  of  the  37  tuns  1  pipe  are  and  at 
the  time  of  the  arrest  were  of  John  Bachecote  and  not  of  the  said 

E  17 


258  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366,  Membrane  4 — cont. 

Andrew  and  Peter  or  any  other,  that  they  were  laded  at  Calais  in  a 
ship  of  the  raid  John,  that  he  paid  the  custom  thereon  due,  namely 
about  Monday  before  St.  Simon  and  St.  Jude  last,  that  the  said  ship 
with  the  woad  after  touched  at  the  port  of  London,  and  paid  to  the 
said  sheriffs  the  custom  thereupon  due,  that  the  remaining  tun  not 
arrested  is  and  at  the  time  of  the  arrest  was  of  Eliot  de  Gascoigne 
'  vyneter,'  that  he  paid  18d.  for  the  custom  thereupon  due  to  the  king 
to  William  de  Kelseye  and  his  fellows  collectors  of  the  petty  custom 
in  the  port  of  London,  and  to  the  said  sheriffs  the  custom  due,  and  that 
that  tun  was  with  the  woad  laded  at  Calais  in  the  said  ship. 

Dec.  3.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.      Order,  upon  the 

Westminster,  petition  of  Henry  de  Brisele,  to  account  with  him  concerning  the  arrears 
of  the  40Z.  lately  granted  him  by  letters  patent  for  term  of  his  life, 
and  to  allow  him  in  the  debts  from  him  due  at  the  exchequer  what  they 
shall  find  to  be  due,  also  83Z.  8d.,  if  due  to  him,  for  the  sale  of  divers 
instruments  and  other  things  needful  for  the  mint  in  the  Tower  of 
London  delivered  to  the  king's  clerk  John  de  Thorpe  warden  thereof 
to  the  king's  use;  as  his  petition  shews  that  he  is  bound  to 
the  king  in  divers  sums  of  money,  that  certain  sums  are  due  to  him 
from  the  king  as  well  of  the  said  arrears  as  for  the  sale  afore- 
said, and  that  these  last  amount  to  83/.  8d.,  as  by  the  said 
John's  account  of  his  office  rendered  at  the  exchequer  may  appear, 
praying  allowance  thereof.  Proviso  that  if  Henry  owes  more 
than    is    due  to  him,  he  shall  answer  to  the  king  for  the  surplus. 

Dec.  7.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  and  to  the  chamber- 

Westminster,  lains.  Order  to  account  with  Thomas  de  Bello  Campo  earl  of  Warre- 
wyk,  whom  the  king  has  newly  sent  to  Flanders  to  further  certain 
business  there,  concerning  the  days  he  stood  upon  the  king's  service 
going  from  the  city  of  London  to  those  parts,  there  abiding,  and  thence 
returning  to  the  said  city,  and  concerning  the  expenses  of  his  passage 
over  sea  and  return,  allowing  him  5  marks  a  day  for  his  wages  and  2i 
marks  for  the  reward  granted  him  by  the  king,  and  to  pay  him  of  the 
treasury  what  shall  by  such  account  be  found  due  to  him.  By  K. 

[Feeder  a.] 

Dec.  16.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Notice  that  the  king  has  withdrawn 

Westminster,  the  letters  patent  of  protection  for  one  year  with  the  clause  volnmus 
which  he  lately  granted  to  Thomas  de  Aldoun,  believing  him  to  be 
about  to  sail  to  Gascony  in  the  company  of  the  king's  son  John  duke 
of  Lancaster,  so  that  the  same  should  not  avail  him  if  he  should  not 
take  that  voyage  or  should  return  to  England  within  the  said  term, 
in  order  that  they  may  do  what  shall  seem  right  at  the  suit  of  all  having 
plaints  before  the  sheriffs  against  the  said  Thomas  that  protection 
notwithstanding  ;  as  the  said  duke  has  sailed,  and  the  said  Thomas 
is  yet  abiding  in  England  and  not  making  ready  to  sail,  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  credible  witness.  By  K. 

Oct.  30.         To  Alan  de  Buckeshull  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London  or  to  his 

Westminster,  lieutenant.     Order  to  keep  in  safe  custody  in  the  prison  of  the  Tower 

until  further  order  Edmund  Rose  whom  the  king  has  caused  to  be 

delivered  by  the  council  to  the  said  constable.  By  C. 


40  EDWARD  III. 


259 


1366. 

Oct.  5. 
Wostniinstor. 


1367. 
Jan.  22. 

Wostminster. 


Jan.  20. 

Westminster. 


1366. 

Nov.  22. 

Westminster. 

1367. 

Jan.  7. 

Westminster. 

1366. 
Nov.  11. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  4 — cont. 

To  the  slicriff  of  Norffolk.  Order  to  cause  Thomas  bishop  of  Norwich 
to  have  seisin  of  one  acre  of  land  in  3'lofeld  lield  by  Henry  atte  Fen, 
who  for  a  felony  by  him  eommilted  abjuK  d  the  realm  it  is  said  ;  as 
the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  sheriff,  that  the 
said  land  has  been  in  his  hand  a  j^ear  and  a  day,  and  is  yet  in  his  hand, 
that  tlie  said  Henry  l\eld  the  same  of  the  said  bishop,  and  that  Edmund 
Cote  of  Blofeld  had  the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste,  and  ought  to 
answer  to  the  king  for  the  same. 

To  the  sheriff  of  York.  Order  to  cause  the  abbot  of  Selby  to 
have  seisin  of  a  messuage  and  appurtenances  in  Selby  held  by  Hugh 
Fish  of  Selby  outlaAved  for  felony  it  is  said ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  sheriff,  that  the  premises  have  been  in  his 
ht\nd  a  year  and  a  day  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  that  the  said  Hugh 
held  them  of  the  said  abbot,  and  that  William  de  Reygate  escheator 
in  Yorkshire  had  the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste,  and  ought  to 
answer  to  the  Icing  for  the  same. 

To  the  tieasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order,  upon 
the  petition  of  the  abbot  of  St.  Mary  Graces  by  the  Tower  of  London, 
to  stay  their  demand  made  by  exchequer  summons  upon  the  said  abbot 
for  10/.  to  the  king's  use  as  a  prest,  which  sum  on  7  March  in  the  29th 
year  of  his  reign  the  king  caused  to  be  delivered  at  the  receipt  of  the 
exchequer  of  his  gift  to  the  then  president  and  the  monks  of  the  said 
abbey  to  buy  certain  books  for  the  use  of  the  abbey,  discharging 
him  thereof. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Devon  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 
of  Nicholas  Potel,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 


Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln  to  cause 
instead  of  Roger  Gunnays,  who  is  dead. 


a  coroner  to  be  elected 


To  Alan  de  Buckeshull  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London,  or  to 
his  lieutenant.  Order  to  keep  in  safe  custody  in  the  prison  of  the  said 
Tower  until  further  order  Richard  Englissh,  whom  the  king  has  caused 
to  be  delivered  by  the  council  to  the  said  Nonstable.'  By  C. 


Membrane  3. 
Dec.  4.  To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Oxford  and  Suth- 

Westminster.  ampton.  Order  to  cause  John  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Burgherssh 
tenant  in  chief  to  have  seisin  of  the  lands  of  his  father  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  his  death  ;  as  the  said  John  the  son  has  proved  his 
age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and 
fealty.  By  p.s.  [27208.] 

To  John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.  Like  order, 
as  John  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Burgherssh  has  proved  his  age  before 
John  de  Evesham.  By  p.s.  (as  above) . 

Dec.  4.  To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Essex.     Order  to  cause  John 

Westminster,  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Burgherssh  to  have  seisin  of  the  manors  of 

Hatfeld  Peverel  and  Wytham,  kept  in  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 


260 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366. 


Membrane  3 — cont. 


of  Margery  who  was  wife  of  Edmund  Bacon  tenant  in  chief  and  by 
reason  of  the  said  John's  nonage,  and  now  in  the  king's  hand  ;  as 
on  14  May  in  the  35th  year  of  the  reign,  in  a  partition  made  between 
WilHam  de  Moljms  and  Margery  his  wife  one  of  the  daughters  and 
heirs  of  the  said  Edmund  and  the  said  John  ,  son  and  heir  of  John  de 
Burgherssh  and  Maud*  his  wife  the  other  daughter  and  heir  of  the  said 
Edmund,  of  the  lands  which  the  said  Margery  wife  of  Edmund  held 
in  dower  or  otherwise  for  life  of  the  heritage  of  the  said  heirs,  by  their 
assent  the  king  assigned  to  the  said  William  and  Margery  the  manors 
of  Gresham  co.  Norffolk  and  Oulton  co.  Suffolk  to  the  purparty  of 
Margery,  commanding  livery  thereof  to  be  given  them,  and  the  manors 
of  Hatfeld  Peverel  and  Wytham  co.  Essex,  Brune  co.  Cambridge 
and  Kyngeseye  cos.  Bukingham  and  Oxford  for  the  purparty  of  the 
said  John,  keeping  the  same  in  his  hand  ;  and  the  said  John  has  now 
proved  his  age  before  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Oxfordshire,  and 
the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  (as  above) 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

John  de  Olney  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire  and  Cambridgeshire, 

concerning  the  manors  of  Brune  and  Kyngeseye. 
John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Oxfordshire,  concerning  the  manor 
of  Kyngeseye. 


Dec.  4.  To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Norffolk  and  Suffolk.     Order 

Westminster,  to  cause  John  son  of  John  de  Burgherssh,  and  cousin  and  heir  of  William 
de  Kerdeston  tenant  in  chief,  to  have  seisin  of  the  lands  of  the  said 
William  his  grandfather  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  ; 
as  the  said  John  has  proved  his  age  before  John  de  Evesham  escheator 
in  Oxfordshire,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty. 

By  p.s.  (as  above) 
The  like  to  the  folloAving  : 

William  de  Reygate  escheator  in  Yorkshire. 
Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire. 
John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire. 

Membrane  ZOd.-f 
To  the  sheriff  of  York.     Order  to  cause  a  regard  to  be  made  in  the 
Westminster,  forest  of    Pikerynglith  according  to  the  form  of  the  capitnla  following, 
so  that  the  same  be  made  before  the  Nativity  of  the  Virgin  Mary  next. 

Capihila. 

Robert  Predyaux  to  Otto  de  Bodrygan.     Recognisance  for  40  marks, 
to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Cornwall. 


Jan.  26. 


Jan.  30. 

Westminster 


Jan.  30.         Thomas  Peyvre  to  William  de  Clopton  and  A  vice  his  wife.     Recog- 
Westminster.  nisance  for  400  marks  payable  by  instalments  ;    to  be  levied  etc.  in 
Bedfordshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  William. 


Jan.  31. 

Westminster. 


John  de  Isle  of  Wodynton  knight  to  John  de  Cobham  knight  of 
Kent.  Recognisance  for  200  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  the  county  of 
Suthampton.  

*  She  was  daughter  of  William  de  Kerdeston  by  Margaret  his  wife  daughter 
of  Edmund  Bacon.  See  the  inquisitions,  and  compare  the  writ  of  privy  seal, 
where  Edmund  Bacon  is  said  to  be  proavus  of  the  heir. 

t  Membranes  2  and  1  are  blank. 


40  EDWARD  III. 


261 


18()().  Membrane  3(W — cont. 

The  said  John  de  Isle  to  John  son  of  James  do  Cobham.  Recognisance 
for  200  marks,  to  be  levied  etc,  in  tlie  county  of  Suthampton. 

Feb.  3.  Simon  Lescy  of  Kyngesclyve,  parson  of  St.  Mary  by  the  Bridge 

V\ostniinstor.  Staiinford,  to  Robert  Clement  parson  of  Overton  Watervylle.  Recog- 
nisance for  100/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesi- 
astical goods  in  Lincolnshire. 

Feb.  3.  William  de  Worston,  Thomas  Coubrigge,  WilUam  de  Camme  and 

Wostminstor.  Robert  de  Cherleton  to  Peter  Tliurk.     Joint  and  several  recognisance 
for  200  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  the  city 
of  London. 
.     Cancelled  on  'payment. 

Indenture  made  between  Peter  Turk  of  the  one  part  and  William 
de  Worston,  Thomas  Coubrigge,  William  de  Camme  and  Robert  de 
Cherleton  of  the  other  part,  being  a  defeasance  of  the  foregoing 
recognisance  upon  condition  that  the  said  William,  Thomas,  WilUam 
and  Robert,  their  heirs  or  executors,  pay  to  the  said  Peter,  his  executors 
or  their  attorney  bringing  an  acquittance,  100  marks  in  the  priory 
of  nuns  of  Clerkenewell,  to  wit  at  Midsummer  next  or  within  six  weeks 
5  marks,  at  Michaelmas  following  or  within  six  weeks  5  marks,  at 
Easter  following  or  within  six  weeks  5  marks,  at  Michaelmas  following 
or  within  six  weeks  5  marks,  and  so  from  year  to  year  until  the  whole 
be  paid.  Dated  Westminster,  Wednesday  after  Candlemas  40 
Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
4  February. 

Feb.  6.  Robert  Vynter  of  Maydenstan  to  David  de  Wollore  clerk.     Recog- 

Westminster.  nisance  for  20  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  Kent. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Feb.  13.         Hugh  Chastillon  knight  of  Bukinghamshire  to  David  de  Wollore 
Westminster,  and  Mchael  de  Ravendale  clerks.     Recognisance  for  4L,  to  be  levied 
etc.  in  Bukinghamshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Michael. 


Membrane  29d. 

Certificate  of  William  de  Otteford  escheator  in  Bedfordshire,  that 
he  has  taken  the  fealty  of  Isold  late  the  wife  of  John  de  Dardres  of 
Turveye,  tenant  by  knight  service  of  John  son  and  heir  of  John  Traily 
tenant  in  chief,  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  has  caused  her  to 
swear  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  has 
assigned  her  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  said  heir's  nonage,  namely 
within  his  manor  of  Turveye  in  Turveye  all  the  chambers  on 
the  east  side  of  the  hall  and  the  third  part  of  the  kitchen 
M'ith  free  ingress  and  egress  as  well  to  the  kitchen  as  the  said 
chambers,  the  lesser  grange  by  the  '  knyghtuschaumbre  '  and  two 
other  houses,  namely  one  sheepfold  and  one  pigsty,  with  ingress  and 
egress  through  the  gates  of  the  manor  and  other  easements,  and  ingress 
and  egress  to  the  chapel  and  dovecot  thereof  for  the  third  part  of  the 


262  CALENDAR  OP  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366.  Membrane  2M — cont. 

issues  and  easements  when  need  be  and  for  divine  celebrations,  which 
grange,  shecpfold  and  pigsty  are  of  no  yearly  value  over  and  above 
reprises,  but  the  third  part  of  the  dovecot  is  worth  2s.  2\d.  a  year  ; 
hkeT\ise  one  garden  called  the  '  Westorcherd,'  a  house  wherein  Alice 
Delly  dwells  with  a  piece  of  land  containing  4  perches  in  length 
and  one  in  breadth  sometime  of  Richard  le  Noble,  value  3s.  4c?.  a  year, 
20J  acres  13  perches  of  arable  land  in  the  higher  field  called  the 
'  Blakedole,'  each  acre  value  4(^.  a  year,  6  acres  3^  roods  in  a  field 
called  Wolvereshej'e,  each  acre  value  M.  a  year,  17  acres  in  the  fields 
called  Hodewyke  Fourlong,  each  acre  value  4(Z.  a  year,  11^  acres  in  a 
field  called  the  Stokkyngg,  each  acre  value  4dd.  a  year,  together  \^ith 
half  an  acre  and  the  hedge  with  6i  perches  of  land  in  Peruscroft 
towards  the  Touneshende,  value  \2d.  a  year,  21  acres  1  rood  5i  feet 
of  arable  land  in  the  '  Westfeld,'  each  acre  value  3cZ.  a  year  ;  of 
meadows  and  pastures  7^  acres  \  rood  16  perches,  each  acre  value 
\2d.  a  year  ;  of  wood  17  acres  1  rood  13  perches  6  feet,  each  acre 
value  \2d.  a  year. 

Assignment  of  dower  to  Constance  who  was  wife  of  Walter  de  Ribbes- 
ford  knight  of  the  manor  of  Ribbesford,  there  made  by  Leo  de  Perton 
escheator  in  Worcestershire  on  Friday  after  the  Conversion  of 
St.  Paul  40  Ed^^•ard  III,  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  thereto  attached. 
First  within  the  said  manor  one  high  chamber  on  the  south  side  of  the 
hall  with  the  cellar,  the  chapel  and  other  houses  as  far  as  the  outer 
post  at  a  Uttle  gate  at  the  entiy  of  the  garden  called  '  Overorchard  '  ; 
a  moiety  of  the  said  garden  as  by  set  bounds  appears,  with  the  dovecot 
there  and  the  fish  pond  called  Postelpol,  a  small  ciirtilage  enclosed 
on  the  east  of  the  said  chamber,  the  joint  easements  of  a  way  from  the 
said  hall  to  Ribbesford  church  when  need  be,  and  of  a  spring  T^ithin 
the  said  manor,  of  the  close  within  the  great  gate,  and  of  coming  and 
going  when  need  be  by  the  great  gate  ;  in  the  outer  court  one  grange 
called  'heyberne,'  by  the  outer  gate  one  house  called "  shepehous',  a  garden 
called  '  Brodeorchord '  with  a  '  forlong  '  of  land  thereby  called  Edesshfeld, 
the  land,  meadow  and  wood  from  the  gate  called  '  Walbrokyate '  to 
Glodderebrugge,  lands,  hay  {haiss')  and  moor  from  the  grove  of  the 
rector  of  Ribbesford  on  the  west  lying  by  a  hay  leading  upon  the 
high  way  to  the  water  called  Gloddere,  and  from  the  said  water  on  the 
east  to  a  hay  hard  by  a  dovecot  on  the  west  as  far  as  the  said  water, 
and  thence  on  the  east  side  to  a  wood  called'  Hewebache  ' ;  in  the  park 
for  a  third  part  from  the  gate  called  '  Birchenj-ate  '  to  the  '  Erber  ' 
by  the  straight  way,  thence  to  a  pear  tree,  thence  to  Oken  Vallet 
leading  by  a  path  to  a  piece  of  ground  called  Doggehed,  thence  to 
the  'Neweyate'  on  the  south  side,  thence  to  the  'crabbetre'  in  the 
Bii'chen  VaUet,  and  thence  to  Walbrokj-ate,  Avith  joint  easement  of 
the  way  there  as  far  as  the  river  Severn  ;  a  piece  of  ground  jointly 
from  \Valbrokyate  to  the  Severn  from  the  '  ivytre  '  to  the  '  pope- 
lerues  '  ;  also  Q\d.  a  year  rent  of  the  tenement  of  Roger  de  Sheynston, 
and  the  presentation  to  the  chiirch  of  Ribbesford,  namely  for  the  third 
f       turn. 

Feb.  10.  j\Iichael  de  Ponynges  knight  to  Queen  Philippa,     Recognisance  for 

Westminster.  2,000  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Sussex. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  Richard  de  Raveneaer  clerk 
the  said  queen's  attorney. 


40  EDWARD  III. 


2G3 


13CC). 


Membrane  29(Z — cont. 


Feb.  22. 
Wostminster. 


April  20. 

Westminster. 


Indenture  made  between  Queen  Pliilippa  and  Sir  Michael  de 
Ponynges  kniglit,  being  a  grant  and  sale  to  Sir  Micliael  of  the  wardship 
of  the  body  of  WilUani  son  and  heir  of  Sir  John  de  Bardolf  and  hia 
niari'iage,  to  the  effect  that  the  said  Wilham  shall  take  to  wife  Agnes 
daughter  of  the  said  Micliael  before  the  month  of  Easter  next,  for 
which  tlie  said  Michael  shall  pay  tlie  said  queeii  1,000/.  in  lier  exchequer 
at  Westminster,  to  wit  500/.  within  eight  days  after  the  month  of 
Easter  next,  250  marks  at  Michaelmas  following,  250  marks  at  Easter 
folloA\  ing,  and  250  marks  at  Michaelmas  follow  ing  ;  and  a  defeasance 
of  the  foregoing  recogni-sance  upon  condition  that  the  said  Sir  Michael 
shall  keep  the  days  of  payment,  and  if  any  default  be  found  in  the  said 
\\'illiam  whereby  he  may  not  marry  the  said  Agnes  by  the  law  of  the 
church,  or  if  he  shall  refuse  so  to  do,  or  if  either  of  them  die  before 
marriage,  the  said  Sir  Michael,  his  heirs  and  executors,  shall  be  dis- 
charged as  well  of  the  payment  aforesaid  as  of  the  said  recognisance. 
Covenants  that  if  the  said  Agnes  after  her  marriage  die  without 
issue  living  before  the  said  sum  be  fully  paid,  Sir  Michael,  his  heirs, 
executors  and  tenants,  shall  be  discharged  of  the  part  thereof 
unpaid  and  of  the  said  recognisance,  that  the  said  William  shall  yearly 
during  his  nonage  take  50  marks  for  maintenance  at  the  queen's 
exchequer  or  by  the  hands  of  the  farmers  of  the  lands  in  Sussex  of  his 
heritage.     Dated  Wyndesore,  11  February  40  [Edward  III].     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Michael,  13  February. 

Richard  de  Piriton  clerk,  William  de  Tudenham,  John  de  Sancto 
Albano  and  Thomas  atte  Crouche  citizens  of  London  to  the  king. 
Recognisance  for  500  marks  payable  by  instalments  in  the  king's 
chamber,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and 
chattels  in  form  following  ;  namely  if  they  pay  the  first  moiety  in  the 
quinzaine  of  Easter  next  and  have  the  body  of  the  said  Richard  at 
that  time  before  the  council  at  Westminster,  the  said  William,  John 
and  Thomas  shall  be  altogether  discharged  of  that  moiety,  and  if  the 
said  Richard  shall  find  other  mainpernors  for  payment  of  the  last 
moiety,  or  shall  die  in  the  mean  time,  they,  their  heirs  and  executors 
shall  be  altogether  quit. 

Memorandum  that  Helmyngus  Legat  receiver  of  the  king's  chamber 
came  into  chancery  at  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  aforesaid,  and 
acknowledged  that  by  his  hands  the  king  was  in  his  chamber 
contented  of  one  moiety  of  the  above  sum,  and  the  said  Richard, 
William,  John  and  Thomas  made  a  recognisance  of  the  other  moiety 
to  be  levied  etc.  in  the  city  of  London  ;  wherefore  the  above  first 
recognisance  stands  uncancelled  until  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas 
next. 


Membrane  isd. 

Feb.  11.         Walter   de   Clopton   to    Queen   Philippa.     Recognisance   for    40Z., 
Westminster,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Somerset. 

Cancelled  on  'payment,  acknowledged  by  Richard  de  Raveneser  clerk 
the  said  queen's  attorney. 

Feb.  13.         William  Meleman  of  Watford  to  Nicholas  Twyford  goldsmith  of 
Westminster.  London.     Recognisance  for  120/.  payable  by  instalments  ;  to  be  levied 
etc.  in  Hertfordshire. 


264 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366.  Membrane  28d — cont. 

Bartholomew  Blaket  to  William  Meleman  of  Watford.     Recognis- 
ance for  120?.  payable  by  instalments  ;  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Hertfordshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Feb.  12.  To  John  Mountagu,  William  de  Wychyngham,  Edmund  Chelreye, 
Westminster.  William  Tauk  and  William  Luscote.  Order  not  to  meddle  further 
henceforth  in  hearing  and  determining  the  matters  hereinafter  recited, 
although  upon  an  allegation  being  made  that,  at  the  time  John  Moubray 
and  Edmund  Chelreye  justices  of  assize  in  Devon  held  their  sessions  at 
Exeter  as  well  for  assizes  as  to  take  an  inquisition  by  writ  of  nisi  prius 
between  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  church  of  St.  Peter  Exeter  and 
John  Gist  late  mayor  of  that  town,  the  bailiffs  and  commonalty  thereof, 
concerning  an  alleged  trespass  by  the  said  mayor,  bailiffs  and  common- 
alty committed  against  the  said  dean  and  chapter,  Nicholas  de  Britstowe 
mayor  of  Exeter  caused  proclamation  to  be  made  throughout  the  town 
{sic)  commanding  all  and  singular  the  inhabitants  thereof  to  shut  their 
doors,  furnish  themselves  with  arms  and  armour,  and  come  with  power 
before  the  said  justices  to  hinder  the  execution  of  the  said  writ,  that 
great  numbers  of  them  so  arrayed  and  furnished  assembled,  ran  by  the 
streets,  and  repaired  into  the  presence  of  the  said  justices,  so  greivously 
threatening  the  said  dean  and  chapter  and  the  jurors  of  the  said 
inquisition  that  they  dared  not  come  before  the  justices  the  dean  and 
chapter  to  sue  and  the  jurors  to  acknowledge  the  truth,  and  so  the 
business  remained  undone,  the  king  by  letters  patent  lately  appointed 
the  said  John  Mountagu  and  the  others,  four,  three  and  two  of  them, 
of  whom  William  de  Wychyngham  and  the  said  Edmund  should  be  one, 
as  justices  to  make  inquisition  whether  the  said  Nicholas  caused  such 
riot  to  be  made,  what  other  evildoers  committed  those  trespasses  and 
contempts,  and  upon  other  articles  touching  the  premises,  and  to  hear 
and  determine  the  same  as  well  at  the  suit  of  the  king  as  of  the  said 
dean  and  chapter  and  of  others  ;  as  the  said  John  and  Edmund  and 
Guy  de  Bryan  being  before  the  council  examined  touching  the  truth 
of  that  allegation  have  upon  their  fealty  acknowledged  that  there  was 
no  truth  in  it,  wherefore  the  king  revokes  their  appointment.  By  C. 

Feb.  17.         Stephen  de  Heppeworth  parson  of  Isefeld  to  William  de  Mirfeld 
Westminster,  clerk.     Recognisance  for  lol,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Sussex. 

Feb.  25.  To  Robert  de  Thorp  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  assize  in  Suffolk. 
Westminster.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  William  Neve  of  Wetyngge  and  Joan  his 
wife,  to  view  the  record  and  process  of  an  assize  of  novel  disseisin  before 
them  arraigned  by  the  said  William  and  Joan  against  David  de 
Strabolgy  earl  of  Athele  and  others,  and  if  the  same  has  proceeded 
as  the  plaintiffs  allege,  to  proceed  to  take  that  assize,  doing  justice  to 
the  parties,  the  allegation  that  the  manor  of  Kentwell  is  in  the  king's 
hand  notwithstanding,  so  that  they  do  not  proceed  to  rendering  of 
judgment  without  advising  the  king  ;  as  the  said  William  and  Joan 
have  shewn  the  king  that  they  arraigned  such  an  assize  of  tenements  in 
Melford,  Alfton,  Stansted  and  Shymplyng,  complaining  that  the  said 
Joan  is  disseised  of  the  said  manor,  12  acres  of  land  and  4/.  of  rent 
therein  excepted,  and  the  defendants  in  pleading  have  alleged  as  afore- 
said, not  purposing  that  they  ought  to  proceed  to  that  assize  without 
advising  the  king,  by  colour  whereof  the  justices  have  hitherto  deferred 
so  to  proceed,  wherefore  the  plaintiffs  have  prayed  for  remedy.     By  C. 


40  EDWARD  III. 


265 


130G.  Membrane  28c? — conL 

Feb.  22.  Mainprise  of  Master  Alexander  de  Neville,  John  do  Hatfeld  citizen 
Westminster,  of  London  and  John  de  Mitford  citizen  of  London  for  John  Heioun 
knight  for  particular  causes  imprisoned  in  the  Flete  prison,  to  answer 
to  the  king  for  1,000  marks  which  the  said  John  Heroun  offered  the 
king  for  a  fine  if  the  king  would  accept  the  same,  or  that  he 
should  enter  again  the  said  prison  within  40  days  after  warning  re- 
ceived if  the  king  would  not,  and  that  in  case  it  should  please  the 
king  to  have  the  lands,  goods  and  chattels  of  the  said  John  Heroun 
until  contented  of  the  said  sum,  the  king  might  take  and  hold  the 
same  as  aforesaid,  or  otherwise  the  said  mainpernors  would  pay  him 
the  same  whether  John  Heroun  should  be  alive  or  dead,  so  that  they 
should  not  by  his  dcatli  be  excused  nor  discharged  thereof  while 
these  conditions  were  not  fulfilled. 

Feb.  22.        John  Heroun  knight  to  Master  Alexander  Neville,  John  de  Hatfeld 
Westminster,  citizen  of  London  and  John  de  Mitford  citizen  of   London.     Recog- 
nisance for  3,000  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Northumberland. 


Feb.  2L        To  the  warden  of  the  Flete  prison.     Order  to  set  free  under  the  form 

Westminster,  in  a  mainprise  contained  John  Heroun  knight,  detained  in  the  said 

prison  for  particular  causes  ;    as  the  king  has  dismissed  him  by  that 

mainprise.  By  K. 

Feb.  20.  To  John  Tracy  sheriff  of  Gloucester,  John  Sergeaunt  of  Stone 
Westminster.  Robert  Palet  and  John  Benet.  Order  to  stay  the  taking  of  the  body 
of  Wilham  Pynnok  parson  of  Chiryngton,  bringing  this  writ  before 
the  king  and  council  one  month  after  Easter  next,  although  the  king 
lately  appointed  them  to  arrest  and  take  the  said  William,  Simon 
Pynnok,  John  le  Longe  and  Thomas  Wattes  his  servants,  and  immedi- 
ately bring  them  before  the  king  and  council  to  answer  touching  divers 
alleged  contempts  by  them  committed  against  the  king  and  his  crown 
whereof  they  are  indicted  and  notoriously  suspect ;  as  the  said  William, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  has  found  Simon  Gildemore  of  Chiryng- 
ton, John  Spenser  of  Chiryngton  and  Richard  atte  Grene  of  Chiryngton 
his  mainpernors,  who  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  300^.  that  he 
shall  appear  before  the  king  and  council  on  the  aforesaid  day  to  answer 
touching  the  said  contempts  and  other  things  which  shall  be  laid  before 
him  on  the  king's  behalf,  and  to  do  and  receive  what  shall  there  be 
ordered  concerning  him,  also  that  he  shall  henceforth  make  no  suit 
elsewhere  which  may  tend  to  the  hurt  of  the  king's  crown.  By  C. 

Jan.  28.  To  Robert  de  Thorp  and  Roger  de  Meres  justices  of  assize  in  Cam- 

Westminster,  bridgeshire.  Order  not  to  proceed  without  advising  the  king  to  take 
any  assize  concerning  a  void  piece  of  ground  lying  in  the  parish  of  All 
Saints  Cantebrigge  by  the  hospital  of  St.  John,  or  any  parcel  thereof  ; 
as  Thomas  son  of  Constantine  de  Mortuo  Mari  knight  the  elder  {militis 
senioris)  by  his  charter  gave  to  the  king,  his  heirs  and  assigns  for  ever 
the  whole  of  the  said  piece  of  ground,  extending  in  length  from  a  public 
lane  leading  from  the  Heyestrete  towards  the  river  {aquam  currentem) 
as  far  as  a  small  ditch  below  the  garden  of  the  said  hospital  towards  the 
north,  and  in  breadth  from  the  garden  of  the  warden  and  scholars  of  the 
King's  Hall  and  from  a  house  sometime  of  Jolm  de  Cantebrigge  knight 
towards  the  east  to  the  middle  of  the  said  river  towards  the  west  ; 
and  now  the  king  has  learned  that  the  mayor  and  commonalty  of 


206 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366.  Membrane  28d—cont. 

the  town  of  Cantebrigge  have  arraigned  an  assize  of  novel  disseisin 
against  Nicholas  Roos  master  of  the  scholars  of  the  said  hall  and  others 
in  the  original  writ  contained  concerning  tenements  in  Cantebrigge, 
putting  in  view  the  piece  of  ground  so  granted  to  the  king.  By  K. 


Membrane  21d. 

Eeb.  3.  To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.     Order,  if  there  be  a  plea  before  them 

Westminster,  between  John  de  Dynham  knight  and  Robert  de  Thorp  clerk  con- 
cerning a  messuage  in  Corston,  to  stay  until  further  order  the  further 
holding  of  such  plea;  as  by  a  presentment  made  before  Nicholas 
de  Carrue  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  make  inquisition  con- 
cerning wards,  marriages,  escheats  and  other  profits  to  the  king  pertain- 
ing unlawfully  occupied  and  concealed,  and  to  hear  and  determine  those 
matters,  it  is  found  that  John  son  of  John  Inge  at  his  death  held  in 
his  demesne  as  of  fee  the  manor  of  Corston  in  chief  by  knight  service, 
that  Joan  his  daughter  and  heir  is  within  age,  that  the  king  has  caused 
the  said  manor  with  the  body  of  the  said  heir  to  be  seized  into  his 
hand,  and  that  tlie  said  Robert  holds  for  life  of  the  heritage  of  the 
said  heir  the  messuage  aforesaid  which  is  parcel  of  the  same  manor, 
as  appears  by  a  record  and  process  which  the  king  has  caused  to  come 
before  him  in  chancery  ;  and  now  the  king  is  informed  that  the  said 
John  de  Dynham,  scheming  to  defraud  the  king  thereof,  is  im- 
pleading the  said  Robert  before  the  said  justices  concerning  the  said 
messuage,  and  if  they  should  proceed  in  that  plea  it  might  be  to 
the  king's  prejudice  and  to  the  disherison  of  the  said  laeir.        By  C. 

Feb.  6.  To   the  sheriff  of  Notyngham.     Order  to   cause  proclamation   to 

Westminster,  be  made  that  all  men  who  have  40/.  a  year  of  land  or  rent,  have  held 
the  same  three  Mhole  years,  and  are  not  knights,  shall  at  their  peril 
take  upon  them  the  order  of  knighthood  before  Midsummer  next 
or  on  that  feast  at  latest ;  and  to  make  inquisition  of  the  names  of 
such  men  in  his  bailiwick,  certifying  their  names  in  chancery  before 
the  said  feast.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Fcedera.} 

The  like  to  singular  the  sheriffs  of  England. 

[Ibid.] 


Feb.  3. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  9. 

Westminster. 


To  William  de  Wychyngham  and  Edmund  Chelreye  justices  of 
assize  in  Devon  and  Somerset.  Order  not  to  proceed  until  further 
order  to  take  any  inquisition  concerning  the  manors  of  Sutton  Lucy, 
Colewille,  Plumtrowe,  Wodehiwysshe,  Harleston,  Donterton  and 
Southpole  CO.  Devon,  the  manor  of  Wotton  Cribet  [sic)  and  the  hamlet 
of  Northorne  co.  Somerset,  which  were  of  Thomas  de  Courteneye 
tenant  in  chief,  and  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason 
of  the  nonage  of  his  heir  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  that  the  said  justices 
are  purposing  to  take  certain  inquisitions  by  colour  of  a  writ  of  nisi 
prius  to  them  addressed,  and  it  would  tend  to  the  king's  prejudice 
and  to  the  disherison  of  the  said  heir  if  they  should  so  proceed  without 
advising  the  king.  By  K.  and  C. 

To  William  de  Wichyngham  and  Edmund  de  Chelreye.  Order  to 
stay  altogether  the  execution  of  the  king's  commission  to  them  and 
other  lieges  as  justices  to  hear  and  determine  certain  alleged  trespasses 
against  Thomas  Bitlesgate  and  Wilham  de  Austhorp  ;  as  for  particular 
causes  the  king  revokes  that  commission.  By  p.s.  [26863.] 


40  EDWARD    III. 


267 


136G. 


Membrane  21d — cont. 


Jan.  26.  To  Jolin  de  Verdoun.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Hugli  lo  Ircmongre 
Wostminstor.  of  Davcntrc,  to  send  to  the  king  under  seal  all  indictments  before  hitn 
against  the  said  Hugh  for  any  trespasses  whatsoever,  also  this  writ, 
so  that  the  king  shall  have  them  in  the  octaves  of  the  Purification 
next  in  oider  to  act  further  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  the 
realm,  and  meantime  to  stay  the  taking  of  the  said  Hugh's  body  ;  as 
his  petition  shews  that  by  certain  his  enemies  he  is  indicted  before 
the  said  John  and  his  fellows,  guardians  of  the  peace  and  justices 
of  oyer  and  terminer  in  Norhamptonshire,  for  trespasses  and  evil  deeds 
not  amounting  to  felony,  praying  that  the  indictment  should  be  sent 
before  the  king  where  it  may  better  be  determined  ;  and  John  Knyght 
of  Catesby,  John  Osbern  of  Braundeston,  Henry  de  Bromwych  and 
John  Calaber  of  Stoke,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  main- 
perned  under  a  pain  of  100^.  to  have  the  said  Hugh  before  the  king 
upon  the  day  above  mentioned  to  answer  touching  those  indictments. 

March  27.       Richard  Raundes  is  sent  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  la  Launde, 

Windsor,      to  have  such  maintenance  of  that  house  for  his  life  as  William  Messager 

deceased  had  at  the  late  king's  request.  By  p.s.  [^6917.] 

Membrane  2Qd. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Payne  esquire,  attorney  general  of  Edmund 
Darrundell  knight,  being  an  acquittance  for  70Z.  received  in  the  church 
of  St.  Sepulchre  London  of  Roger  de  Cherleton  uncle  of  John  de 
Cherleton  knight,  Peter  de  Eyton  and  Robert  son  of  Robert  de 
Stapilton,  in  full  payment  of  450  marks  wherein  the  said  Roger,  Peter 
and  Robert  were  bound  to  the  said  Edmund  by  a  recognisance  made 
in  cliancery  in  the  38tli  year  of  the  reign  and  by  a  bond.  Witnesses  : 
Henry  Dymnell,  John  Worstede,  Simon  Macchyng,  John  de  Fulham. 
Dated  London,  14  April  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  15  April,  before  Simon  bishop 
of  Ely  at  his  manor  of  Holburne  in  the  suburb  of  London, 

April  17.         Peter  Hattere  clerk  to  Peter  Sterre  citizen  of  London.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  240Z.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  the  city  of  London. 

April  23.        John  Flour  of  Codenham  to  Michael  de  la  Pole  knight.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  201.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Oxfordshire. 

April  28.         Thomas  de  Saxendale  of  Botelesford  to  Henry  de  Cotyngton  parson 
Westminster,  of  Botelesford.     Recognisance  for  8  marks  payable  by  instalments  ; 
to  be  levied  etc.  in  Leycestershire, 


May  6.  Edmund  de  Thorpe  knight  of  Norffolk  to  William  de  Manton  clerk. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  160/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Norffolk. 
Cancelled  on  'payment. 

May  6.  John  Colleville  of  Walsokne  knight,  Thomas  son  of  Simon  de  Welle 

Westminster,  and  John  Corner  of  Leveryngton  to  Henry  de  Shanketon  clerk.  Joint 
and  several  recognisance  for  80/.  payable  by  instalments  ;  to  be  levied 
etc.  in  Norffolk. 

Cancelled  on  'payment. 


2C8  '         CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366.  Membrane  26d — cont. 

May  7.  John  Laundelles  to  John  Travers  of  Luttelton.     Recognisance  for 

Westminster.  221.  payable  by  instalments  ;    to  be  levied  etc.  in  Berkshire. 

Charter  of  Roger  Belet  of  Lalham,  giving  with  warranty  to 
Nicholas  abbot  of  Westminster  and  the  convent  and  to  their 
successors  a  messuage,  36|  acres  of  land,  9  acres  of  meadow  and  505. 
of  rent  with  their  rights  etc.  in  Lalham,  as  in  reliefs,  heriots,  escheats, 
suits  of  court,  commons,  waters  and  fisheries,  which  the  said  Roger 
had  of  the  king's  gift  and  which  are  held  in  chief.  Witnesses  : 
William  de  Swanlond,  John  Charleton,  Thomas  Frowyk,  John 
Pyrie,  Nicholas  Bodewelle,  John  Palmere,  William  Bischop,  Nicholas 
de  Ware,  Robert  Gy.  Dated  Lalham,  Sunday  after  St.  George 
40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  May. 

Charter  of  Robert  (sic)  Belet  of  Lalham,  giving  with  warranty  to 
Richard  Rook  the  elder  of  Westminster,  Thomas  Durdent  of  Denham 
and  John  Pecche  of  Westminster,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  his 
lands,  rents  and  services,  meadows,  feedings  and  pastures,  with 
waters,  ways,  paths,  ditches,  commons,  fisheries,  heriots,  reliefs, 
escheats,  etc.  in  the  towns  and  fields  of  Lalham,  Stanes  and  Lytlyngton 
CO.  Middlesex.  Witnesses  :  John  Pirye,  Nicholas  Bodewell,  William 
Bischop,  William  Deuhurst,  Roger  Slak,  Nicholas  de  Ware,  Thomas 
Fremlee,  Robert  Gy.  Dated  Lalham,  Monday  after  St.  George 
40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Roger  Belet,  7  May. 

Writing  of  Sir  Ralph  de  Neville  of  Raby  knight,  being  the 
defeasance  of  a  bond  whereby  Philip  de  Lymbury  knight,  Richard 
de  Ravensere  clerk  and  William  de  Hoton  are  bound  to  him  in  5001., 
upon  condition  that  the  said  Ralph  shall  have  and  peaceably  hold 
for  his  life  the  manor  of  Walleworth  in  the  bishopric  of  Durham, 
which  he  lately  had  for  life  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Sir  Richard 
le  Scrope  and  the  said  Sir  Philip  knights,  John  de  Cotyngham  parson 
of  North  Cave  and  Thomas  de  Wakerfeld  parson  of  Horslee,  without 
being  impleaded,  ejected  or  unduly  suffering  loss  by  the  heirs  of  Sir 
Robert  de  Haunsard  knight  or  any  of  them,  but  shall  by  the  said 
Philip,  Richard  and  William  be  saved  harmless  against  them. 
Dated  Westminster,  6  May  40  Edward  III  (sic). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  8  April  this  year  {sic). 

Writing  of  John  Merseye  clerk,  Walter  de  Lynton,  Henry  Helyon 
of  Bumpstede  and  Thomas  Payn  of  Balsham,  cousins  and  heirs  of 
Robert  Bursteler  knight  of  Cambridgeshire,  being  a  quitclaim  to 
John  Wroth  the  elder  citizen  of  London  of  all  the  lands  in  the 
town  of  Hadenham  in  the  isle  of  Ely  which  the  said  Robert  had 
of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Edmund  de  Sutton,  son  of  Hamon  de 
Sutton  of  Wliuxho.  Witnesses  :  John  Louekyn  mayor  of  the  city  of 
London,  John  Lytic,  Richard  Croydon,  Nicholas  de  Exton  and  William 
Kyngeston  citizens  of  London.  Dated  London,  Friday  before 
Ascension  day  40  Edward  III  (sic). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  8  April  this  year  {sic). 


40  I<:DWARD  III.  269 


1366^  Membrane  2M. 

Writing  of  Thomas,  son  of  Gilbert  do  Bosenham  and  Lsolda  his 
wife  daughter  of  Peter  de  Novo  Castro  sometime  citizen  and  skinner 
of  London,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Ellis  de  Thorpe 
citizen  and  skinner  of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a  tenement 
situate  in  the  parish  of  St.  Stephen  Wallebroke  street  London  between 
a  tenement  of  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  new  work  by  Gildeford 
now  held  b}^  Thomas  de  Athelby  on  the  south  and  a  tenement  of  John 
de  Tryple  now  held  by  Nicholas  Donat  on  the  north,  which  the  said 
Ellis  has  lately  purchased  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Simon  Dolsaby 
sometime  citizen  of  London  and  John  Gysors,  executors  of  the  said 
Simon,  or  any  rent  thereof  arising;  John  Nott  being  mayor  of  the 
city  of  London,  Richard  de  Croydon  and  John  Hiltoft  sheriffs,  and 
John  Pecche  alderman  of  the  ward.  Witnesses  :  Robert  Rydere, 
Richard  atte  Celer,  William  Danyel,  Nicholas  Longe,  Thomas  atte 
Halle,  John  Baas,  Thomas  Croucheman.  Dated  London,  Sunday 
after  the  Conception  37  Edw^ard  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  May  this  year. 

May  8.  John  Belevale,  John  Bydik,   William  Haym,   Anselm  Haym  and 

Westminster.  John   Pikeryng  to   Queen   Philippa.     Recognisance  for  200Z.,   to  be 
levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Dorset. 

Writing  of  Simon  de  Eton  of  Bukyngham,  giving  with  warranty 
to  Nicholas  de  Twyforde  citizen  and  goldsmith  of  London,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  135.  i:d.  to  be  taken  at  Michaelmas  and 
Easter  by  even  portions  of  the  said  Simon's  messuage  situate  in  the 
east  street  of  Bukyngham  between  a  messuage  sometime  of  William 
Page  and  a  messuage  sometime  of  John  le  Brede,  with  power  to 
distrain  for  arrears  ;  and  the  grantor  has  delivered  \d.  to  the  said 
Nicholas  in  name  of  seisin.  Witnesses  :  Roger  Schyrot,  John  de 
Houndell,  William  Goddes,  Richard  Smyth,  William  Seman  bailiff  of 
Bukyngham,  John  de  Chichestre,  John  de  Hiltofte,  Thomas  Hessay, 
William  de  Burton,  John  Coraunt  citizens  of  London.  Dated 
London,  4  May  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  9  May. 

May  9.  John  de  Mohun  knight  to  Nigel  Loryng  knight.     Recognisance  for 

Westminster.  SQL,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Somerset. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

The  same  John  to  the  said  Nigel.     Recognisance  for  120?.,  to  be 
levied  etc.  in  Somerset. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

May  9.  Thomas  Rocheford  of  Essex  to  John  de  Beverleye.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  40Z.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Essex. 

May  10.  Robert    Lewys    parson    of   a    third    portion    of  Guthmundham  in 

Westminster,  the  dioccse  of  York  to  Michael  de  Ravendale  clerk.     Recognisance 
for  lOZ.,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical 
goods  in  Yorkshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


270  CALENDAR  OP  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366.  Membrane  2od — cont. 

May  IL  John   Abbirbury   to   Michael   de   Ravendale   clerk.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  405.,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Oxfordshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

May  13.  Henry  Sturmy  of  Wiltes  to  Robert  de  Loundres  knight.     Recog- 

Westminster.  nisance  for  QOl.^  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Wiltes. 

Writing  of  Roger  de  Holte,  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Holte,  granting 
with  warranty  to  William  de  Worfton  and  Isabel  his  wife  and  to 
the  heirs  of  the  said  William  the  remainder  of  a  rent  of  8  marks,  the 
homage,  fealty  and  other  services  which  Gilbert  de  la  Roche  holds 
for  life,  by  a  grant  to  him  and  Margaret  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  of 
their  bodies  made  by  the  said  Jolm  \^ith  remainder  to  the  grantor 
and  his  heirs,  which  service  the  said  Gilbert  now  takes  of  Adam  Blake, 
son  and  heir  of  John  Blake,  tenant  of  a  messuage,  a  water  mill  and 
of  one  carucate  of  land  in  Ludyngton  by  virtue  of  an  entail  thereof 
made  to  the  said  John  Blake  and  the  heirs  of  his  body  by  gift  of  the 
said  John  de  Holte,  to  hold  of  the  grantor  and  his  heirs  by  the 
services  aforesaid  Avith  reversion  to  the  grantor  and  his  heirs,  and 
which  services  if  the  said  Gilbert  should  die  \vithout  an  heir  of  his 
body  would  revert  to  the  said  Roger,  the  said  Margaret  being  dead 
without  issue  by  the  said  Gilbert,  and  the  said  tenements  like- 
wise if  the  said  John  should  die  without  an  heir  of  his  body. 
Witnesses  :  John  de  Edyndon  and  Robert  de  Loundres  knights, 
Michael  Skillyng,  William  Hoghton,  John  Bluet.  Dated  Thursday 
Ascension  day  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  15  May. 

May  15.         William   de  Wykeham   archdeacon  of  Lincoln  to  Bernard  Brocas 
Westminster,  knight.     Recognisance  for  2001.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 

William  de  Flaumville  knight  to  Thomas  de  Staple.     Recognisance 
for  40  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Leycestershire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

May  15.  Walter   Danseye   of   Wyltes   to   William    de   Edyndon   bishop    of 

Westminster.  Winchester.     Recognisance  for  40?.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Wyltes. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  John  de  Blebury  one  of  the 
said  bishop's  executors. 

May  16.  Wilham    abbot    of    Evesham,    for    himself    and    the    convent,    to 

Westminster.  Margeiy  Mho  was  wife  of  Thcmas  Broun  citizen  of  London.     Recog- 
nisance for  1,000?.  payable  by  instalments  ;    to  be  le\ned  etc.  of  their 
lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Worcestershire, 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

June  9.  Richard  atte  Park  of  Hengham  Sibille  to  Robert  de  Muskham  clerk. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  5  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Essex. 

June  10.         John  Nelyng  of  Boxford  co.  Suffolk  to  Robert  de  Muskliam  clerk. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  100?.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Essex. 


40  EDWARD  III.  271 


13GG,  Membrane  25o? — cont. 

May  16.  Memorandvm    of    a    mainprise    under   a    pain    of    100^.    made    by 

Westminster.  Henry  de  Coue,  John  de  Aldliam  and  \A'illiam  de  Norwych  of  London, 
appeai'ing  in  ])erson  in  tlie  clianeery  at  Westminster,  for  Hobeit 
Kustaec  of  Tilneye  ehaplain,  tliat  he  sliall  not  cause  nor  procure  any 
bodily  hurt  to  Tliomas  de  Horstede  cbaphiin,  presented  by  the  king 
to  the  vicarage  of  Istih\orth  in  tJie  diocese  of  London,  sliall  not 
remove  to  foreign  parts  without  the  king's  special  licence,  nor  suo 
or  procure  to  be  sued  or  done  anything  that  may  tend  to  the 
king's  prejudice,  or  to  impair  the  presentation  aforesaid. 

Membrane  24d. 

Writing  of  John  de  Sancta  Cruce  of  Bedfordshire,  being  a  quit- 
claim with  warranty  to  Amaury  de  Sancto  Amando  knight  lord  of 
Hampthull  and  MuJlebrok,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  messuages, 
lands,  rents,  services  of  free  men  and  neifs,  meadows,  woods,  feedings, 
pastures,  with  the  liberties,  warrens  etc.  which  were  of  Thomas  de 
Sancta  Cruce  in  the  said  towns.  Witnesses  :  Giles  Dauboney  knight, 
Peter  de  Salford,  Thomas  Peyvre,  John  Bruton,  Hugh  Pikard,  Richard 
de  Craunfeld,  Thomas  de  Stepyngle.  Dated  Hampthulle,  Monday 
after  the  Invention  of  Holy  Cross  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  19  May. 

May  19.  John  de  Seint  Clier  knight  to  Queen  Philippa.     Recognisance  for 

Westminster.  400^.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Sussex. 

Writing  indented  of  William  de  Ferers  lord  of  Groby,  giving  to 
John  de  Arderne  of  Lancashire  and  Joan  his  wife  for  their  lives 
a  yearly  rent  of  20Z.  to  be  taken  of  his  manors  of  Groby  and  Lutter- 
worth at  Martinmas  and  Wliitsuntide  by  even  portions  or  within 
eight  weeks  after  those  terms,  the  first  payment  being  at  Martinmas 
next,  with  poA\er  to  distrain  for  arreai's,  and  boncl  for  warranty. 
Witnesses  :  Sir  William  de  Fyncheden,  Roger  de  Fulthorp,  Simon 
Pakemon,  Richard  de  Leycestre,  Adam  Skilyngton.  Dated  London, 
Friday  1  May  40  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  29  May. 

Writing  of  Edmund  Daunvers,  son  and  heir  of  Robert  Daunvers 
of  Wynterbourne,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Edmund  de 
Wymondeswold  chaplain  and  Roger  de  Flete,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  the  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Hakeneston  co.  Wilts  and  the 
advowson  of  the  chapel  thereof,  A^hieh  descended  to  him  after  the 
death  of  Edmund  de  la  Beche  archdeacon  of  Berkshire  as  cousin 
and  one  of  the  heirs  of  Nicholas  de  la  Beche  knight.  Witnesses  : 
Richard  de  Abberbury,  Richard  de  Polhampton  knights,  Roger  de 
Hakebourn,  John  Cokerel  of  Chelreye,  Roger  Louekyn,  Thomas 
Cokerel.  Dated  Cheh'eye,  Sunday  before  St.  Gregory  the  pope 
40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  May. 

Charter  of  Richard  de  Brustow'e,  giving  with  warranty  to  Sir 
Nicholas  de  Lovayne  knight  and  Henry  atte  Helde,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  his  manor  of  Brustowe  and  all  his  lands  in  the  town  of 
BrustoA\e  and  the  parishes  of  Home,  Horle  and  W^yvelesfeld  cos.  Surrey 


272 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366. 


Membrane  24rf — cont. 


and  Sussex  with  the  advowsons  of  churches  and  chapels,  royalties, 
liberties,  parks,  woods,  warrens,  mills,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures, 
waters,  ponds,  fish  ponds,  ways,  paths,  turbaries,  rents,  wards, 
marriages,  reliefs,  heriots,  suits  of  court  of  free  tenants  and  neifs  etc. 
Witnesses  :  Sir  Andrew  Peverel,  Sir  John  de  Sancto  Claro,  Sir 
Andrew  Sakevile  knights,  Roger  Dalyngerugge,  William  Nieudegate, 
Richard  Manfe,  John  Bule,  Nicholas  Bule,  Gregory  atte  Hole, 
John  Brooke.  Dated  Lageham,  30  March  40  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  May. 

May  20.  Thomas  de  Musgrave  knight   to   Henry  de  Ingelby,   Thomas  de 

Westminster.  Neuby  and  Michael  de  Ravendale  clerks.  Recognisance  for  \QQl., 
to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Westmorland. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Thomas 
de  Musgrave  pay  to  them  or  one  of  them  501.  on  Michaelmas  day 
next. 

May  21.  Richard  Wylesford  of  Welborne  to  William  de  Kelleseye.     Recog- 

Westminster.  nisance  for  40Z.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Lincolnshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


John  de  Scotherskelf  clerk  +o  Richard  de  Ravenser  clerk, 
nisance  for  414Z.,     to  be  levied  etc.  in  Yorkshire. 
Cancelled  on  'payment. 


Recog- 


June  5.  To  Thomas   de   Lodelowe  and  Robert  Belknapp  justices  of  assize 

Westminster,  in  Essex.  Order,  if  assured  that  the  tenements  put  in  view  are  the 
same  tliat  are  in  the  king's  hand,  it  is  said,  by  the  death  of  John  de 
Benstede  tenant  in  chief  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir, 
or  any  parcel  thereof,  not  to  proceed  without  advising  the  king  to 
take  an  assize  of  novel  disseisin  before  them  arraigned  by  John  Scot 
and  Margaret  his  wife  against  Edward  son  of  John  de  Banstede  and 
others  concerning  tenements  in  Welcomstowe  ;  as  on  30  May  in  the 
30th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  letters  patent  committed  to  Richard 
Punchardon  the  wardship  of  the  lands  and  rents  of  the  said  John  de 
Benstede  in  Rauryth  and  Welcomstowe  co.  Essex  which  are  in  his  hand 
as  aforesaid,  to  hold  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  heir  for  a  set  yearly 
farm  ;  and  now  the  king  is  informed  that  the  said  John  Scot  and 
Margaret  have  arraigned  the  assize  aforesaid,  putting  in  view  the 
lands  of  the  said  deceased  in  Welcomstowe. 


Membrane  2M. 

May  12.  To    the    sheriff    of    Kent.     Order    to    cause    Richard    atte    Lese 

Westminster,  and  Roger  Dygge,  knights  of  the  shire  coming  to  the  parliament 
at  Westminster  on  Monday  the  morrow  of  the  Invention  of  Holy 
Cross  last,  to  have  of  the  commons  of  the  county,  cities  and  boroughs 
excepted,  U.  165.  for  their  expenses  in  coming  to  the  said  parliament, 
there  abiding  and  thence  returning,  namely  45.  a  day  each  for 
12  days. 

The  like  to  the  sheriffs  of  the  following  counties,  for  the  expenses 
of  knights  therein  named  : 

Surrey.     Simon  de  Codyngton  and  John  de  Kyngesfold  -4^  for 
10  days. 


40  EDWARD  III.  273 


136G.  Membrane  23d — cont. 

Sussex.     Andrew    Pevcrell    and    John    Woyvyllc    il.    IGs.    for 

12  days. 
Sutliampton.     Peter  do  Bruges  and  John  Botiller  il.   I6s.  for 

12  days. 
Wiltes.     Robert  de  la  Mare  and  Nicholas  de  Bonham  112s.  for 

14  days. 
Somerset.     Hugh   Durburgh    and   WilHam    Boneville   71.  4s.  for 

18  days. 
Dorset.     WilHam   Fillol   and   Roger  de  Manyngford   61.   Ss.   for 

IG  daj^s. 
Cornwall.     Nicholas  Wamford  and  John  Tremayn  91.   12s.  for 

24  days. 
Gloucester.     John    Tracy    and    John    de    Sloghtre    61.    Ss.    for 

16  days. 
Hereford.     John  de  Eynesford  and   Hugh  de  Monyton  6?.   85. 

for  16  days. 
Salop.     John  de  Lodelowe  and  William  Banastre  of  Hadenhall 

61.  Ss.  for  16  days. 
Worcester.     Robert    Bracy    and    John    de    Harleye    61.    Ss.    for 

16  days. 
Oxford.     Nicholas  Dammory  and  John  de  Tryllowe  4Z.  16-s.  for 

12  days. 
Berkshire.     Nicholas  de  Tamworth  and  John  de  Estbury  il.  16s. 

for  12  days. 
Warrewyk.     Fulk   de    Bermyngeham   and   Richard   de   Herthill 

61.  Ss.  for  16  days. 
Notingham.     Simon  de  Leek  and  Robert  de  Morton  61.  Ss.  for 

16  days. 
Leycestre.     William   Flamvylle   and   Simon   Pakeman   112s.   for 

14  days. 
Lancastre.     John   le    Botiller   and   William    son   of   Robert   de 

Radeclyf  81.  16s.  for  22  days. 
Northumberland.     Aymer  de  Athole  and  Henry  de  Haveryngton 

9/.  12s.  for  24  days. 
Cumberland.     Christopher     de     Moryceby     and     William      de 

Stapelton  91.  12s.  for  24  days. 
York.     John   Bygot   and   Simon   de    Heselarton    11.    4s.    for   18 

days. 
Lincoln.     Thomas  de  Fulnetby  and  William  Haulay  61.  Ss.  for 

16  days. 
Norhampton.     Theobald  Trussell  and  Richard  Wydevylle  4?.  16s. 

for  12  days. 
Cambridge.     Thomas  de  Shardelowe  and  John  Cheyne  41.   16s. 

for  12  days. 
Huntingdon.     William    de    Risceby    and    Nicholas    de    Styuecle 

41.  16s.  for  12  days. 
Norffolk.     Robert   de   Mortymer   and   Roger   de   Bekham  112s. 

for  14  days. 
Bukingham.     Roger  de  Puttenham  and  John  de  Arderne  41.  16s. 

for  12  days. 
Devon.     John  de  Ferers  and  John  Dabernoun  SI.  for  20  days. 
Hertford.     William   de   Wotton   and   Luke   Vyneter   41.   for   10 

days. 
[Prynne,  Parliamentary  Writs,  iv.  p.  271.] 

iS  18 


274 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366. 

May  12. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  23d — cont. 


May  4. 

Westminster. 


To  the  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Cicestre.  Like  order  to  cause  Roger 
Cheyne  and  Robert  Blundel  citizens  of  the  same  to  have  of  the 
commonalty  of  the  city  48s.  for  their  expenses,  namely  2s.  a  day  each 
for  12  days. 

The  like  to  the  bailiffs  of  the  following  towns  for  the  expenses  of 
the  burgesses  or  citizens  named  : 

The  city  of  Hereford.     Henry  Cachepole  and  William  Collynge 

645.  for  16  days. 
The    toAvn    of    Warrewyk.     Robert    Broun    and    Geoffrey    de 

Halughton  64s.  for  16  days. 
The   town   of   Bedford.     Richard  Erereman   and   Giles   Hermer 

485.  for  12  days. 
The   city   of   Exeter,     William   Wyke   and   John   Gray   4Z.   for 
20  days. 
[Ibid.  p.  273.] 

Membrane  22d. 

William  de  Skipwyth  knight,  Philip  le  Despenser,  Ralph  Paynel 
knight,  John  Dymmok  knight,  Thomas  de  Bernaston  knight,  William 
de  Belesby  knight,  Thomas  de  Fulnetby  knight,  John  de  Blyton 
knight,  Lambert  de  Weston  knight,  John  de  Multon  knight,  Roger 
de  Kirketon,  William  Haulay  the  elder,  Ralph  de  Redford,  John 
Hode,  William  Haulay  the  younger,  John  de  Repynghale,  John  de 
Haghe,  John  Amory,  John  de  Conyngesholm,  William  de  Stayn, 
William  de  Skipwyth  the  younger  of  Lincolnshire,  Aymer  de  Athels 
knight,  Alan  de  Heton  knight,  William  de  la  Vale  of  Northumberland, 
John  Botiller  knight,  Edmund  Laurence  of  Lancashire,  Richard  de 
Haveryng  knight  of  Wiltes,  William  de  Nessefeld,  Roger  de  Fulthorp, 
William  de  Brerely  of  Yorkshire,  William  de  Wakbrigge  of  Derby- 
shire and  LawTcnce  Hauberk  of  Leycestershire  to  the  king.  Joint 
and  several  recognisance  for  3,000  marks  payable  by  instalments  ; 
to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  the 
counties  aforesaid. 

Note  that  they  paid  1,000  marks  at  the  receipt  of  the  exchequer 
for  the  term  of  St.  Peters  Chains,  and  have  an  acquittance  under 
the  great  seal. 

Also  that  on  4  November  this  year  they  paid  1,000  marks  for 
Michaelmas  term,  and  have  a  like  acquittance. 

Theobald  Trussell  knight  of  Norhamptonshire,  John  de  Rocheford 
knight,  Ralph  de  Welwyk,  James  de  Herford,  John  Burdet,  Ralph 
de  Skypwyth,  William  de  Haghe,  John  de  Cotom  of  Lincolnshire, 
John  Hilierd,  John  de  Veer,  John  de  Sadyngton  and  James  de 
Raygate  of  Yorkshire  to  the  king.  Joint  and  several  recognisance 
for  1,000  marks  payable  by  instalments  ;  to  be  levied  etc.  in  the 
counties  aforesaid. 

June  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order  to  summon  the  archbishops,  bishops, 
Westminster,  abbots,  priors,  dukes,  earls,  barons,  knights  and  freeholders  of  the 
county,  four  lawful  men  and  the  reeve  of  every  town,  twelve  lawful 
burgesses  of  every  borough  and  all  who  are  used  and  ought  to  come 
before  the  justices  in  eyre,  to  be  at  Canterbury  on  the  morrow  of 
St.  Mary  Magdalen  next  before  John  Knyvet,  Robert  de  Thorp, 
Thomas  de  Lodelowe  and  other  lieges  whom  the  king  shall  send ;   to 


April  21. 

Westminster. 


40  EDWARD  III.  275 


13G6.  Membrane  22d — cont. 

m 

cause  all  pleas  of  tlie  crown  not  pleaded  or  arising  since  the  last  eyre, 
all  pleas  and  all  attachments  thereto  pertaining,  all  assizes  and  pleas 
put  at  the  first  assize  with  the  writs  thereof  to  come  before  the  said 
justices,  so  that  they  remain  not  by  default  of  the  sheriff  or  for  lack 
of  summons ;  to  cause  })ro('lamation  to  be  made  that  all  assizes  and 
all  pleas  attamed  and  not  ended,  or  summoned  before  the  justices  at 
Westminster  or  York,  at  the  last  eyre  for  all  pleas  in  that  county, 
or  before  justices  tliere  sent  to  take  assizes  of  novel  disseisin  or  for 
gaol  delivery  shall  be  before  the  said  justices  in  the  same  state  wherein 
they  remained  by  order  of  the  king,  the  justices  in  eyre  or  of  the 
Bench  ;  to  summon  all  who  were  sheriffs  or  coroners  after  the  last 
eyre  to  be  there  with  the  writs  of  assizes  and  pleas  received  in  their 
time  to  answer  for  their  time  as  they  ought  to  do ;  to  cause 
proclamation  to  be  made  as  well  in  cities  and  boroughs  as  in  market 
towns  and  elsewhere  that  all  those  claiming  liberties  by  charters  of 
the  king's  predecessors  or  otherwise  shall  be  before  the  said  justices 
to  shew  what  liberties  they  claim  and  by  what  warrant ;  and  himself 
to  be  there  in  person  with  his  bailiffs  and  ministers  to  inform  the 
justices  touching  these  and  other  matters  affecting  the  business ; 
also  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  that  all  complainants  who 
would  complain  as  well  of  the  king's  bailiffs  and  ministers  whatsoever 
as  of  others  shall  come  before  the  justices  at  the  day  and  place  named 
to  shew  forth  their  plaints  and  take  amends,  bringing  this  writ  and 
the  summoners.  By  K. 

July  3.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.     Order  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made 

Breamore.  giving  notice  to  all  men  of  the  county  that,  whereas  the  king  lately 
ordered  the  sheriff  to  summon  the  archbishops  etc.  (as  above)  to  come 
before  his  justices  in  eyre  for  common  pleas  and  pleas  of  the  croAvn, 
no  man  need  repair  to  Canterbury  on  the  day  named  by  reason  of 
the  proclamation  of  that  eyre,  but  the  king  will  hold  them  excused  ; 
as  in  consideration  of  the  charges  borne  by  the  true  men  and  commons 
of  Kent  divers  times  by  reason  of  the  king's  abode  there  in  the  time 
of  Simon  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and  willing  to  shew  them  favour, 
the  king  has  pardoned  them  this  time  the  session  aforesaid  during  the 
vacancy  of  the  archbishopric  by  the  death  of  the  said  Simon,  and 
by  another  writ  has  commanded  the  justices  to  stay  altogether  the 
execution  of  his  commission  to  them.  By  p.s.  [27047.] 

To  John  Knyvet,  Robert  de  Thorp  and  Thomas  de  Lodelowe. 
Order  to  stay  altogether  the  execution  of  the  king's  late  commission 
to  them  by  letters  patent  as  justices  in  eyre  for  common  pleas  and 
pleas  of  the  crown  in  Kent  and  for  certain  other  matters  in  the 
commission  contained;  as  in  consideration  etc.  {as  above),  the  king 
this  time  has  pardoned  the  true  men  and  commons  of  Kent  the  session 
of  the  said  justices  during  this  vacancy  of  the  archbishopric.  ■ 

By  p.s.  (the  same  writ). 

Writing  of  William  Filol  of  Dorset,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Sir  Alan 
de  Buxhull  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  and  advowson 
of  Brianston  co.  Dorset.  Dated  Brianston,  Friday  after  St.  Barnabas 
40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  12  June. 


276  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366.  Membrane  2ld. 

Writing  of  William  duke  of  Julers  count  of  Fauquemont  and  lord 
of  Monyoie,  acknowledging  that  of  his  sure  knowledge  and  free  will 
he  has  done  liomage  and  SAVorn  fealty  to  the  king,  and  promising 
upon  his  oath  and  the  honour  of  knighthood  to  serve  the  king  and 
his  heirs  in  peace  and  war  against  all  men  when  required  at  the  king's 
charges.     Dated  London,  15  June  1366.     French. 

[Foedera.] 

Writing  of  William  duke  of  Juliers  count  of  Valkenburg  and 
lord  of  Monyoie,  reciting  that  the  king,  his  lord  and  cousin,  and 
other  prelates  and  nobles  of  the  realm  were  by  their  letters  patent 
bound  to  his  father  sometime  marquess  of  Juliers  and  to  his  heirs 
in  divers  sums  of  money  payable  yearly,  and  in  other  compacts, 
covenants  and  conditions,  and  that  his  said  father  in  his  life  time 
received  of  the  king  divers  sums  of  money,  some  of  the  said 
conditions  were  fulfilled,  and  some  remain  to  be  paid  or  fulfilled, 
touching  which  they  have  come  to  a  full  and  final  concord,  wherefore 
the  said  duke,  as  son  and  heir  of  the  said  marquess  and  his  lawful 
successor,  has  of  his  sure  knoAvledge  and  free  will  restored  and 
delivered  to  the  king  all  the  bonds  aforesaid,  willing  that  henceforth 
they  shall  be  of  none  effect,  acquiiting  the  king,  his  heirs,  executors 
and  posterity  whatsoever  of  the  said  bonds  and  of  the  compacts 
aforesaid,  and  renouncing  all  claims,  actions  and  demands  real  and 
personal  by  reason  thereof,  saving  bonds  and  promises  of  1,000  marks 
yearly  for  his  homage  to  the  king,  9,000  marks  for  arrears  due  to 
his  said  father,  and  1,400Z.  yearly  for  rents  and  profits  of  the  lands 
of  Virson  and  Lury  in  the  realm  of  France  now  made  and  granted 
to  him  at  London,  which  the  said  duke  will  not  renounce  but  use, 
these  quittances  notwithstanding.     Dated  London,  15  June  1366. 

[Ibid.] 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  both  the  foregoing  letters, 
the  same  day. 

Note  that  Master  John  de  Branketre  treasurer  of  the  church  of 
York  took  this  acknowledgment  by  command  of  Simon  bishop  of 
Ely  the  chancellor. 

Memorandum  that  the  said  duke's  acquittance,  together  wdth  his 
letter  of  homage  acknowledged  before  the  said  Master  John,  were 
the  same  day  delivered  to  Richard  de  Chestrefeld  one  of  the  cham- 
berlains of  the  exchequer  to  be  kept  in  the  treasury. 

July  3.  Baldwin   de   Bereford   knight   to   Walter   Huwet   knight.     Recog- 

Westminster.  nisance  for  160?.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Oxfordshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknoivledged  by  John  de  la  More  attorney 
general  of  the  said  Walter. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Walter  Huwet  knight  and  Sir  Bald\\in 
de  Bereford  knight,  being  a  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance, 
upon  condition  that  Sir  Baldwin,  his  heirs  or  executors,  shall  pay 
to  Sir  Walter,  his  executors,  the  abbot  of  Wygemore  or  other  his 
attorneys  general  in  the  church  of  St.  James  Wygemore  co.  Hereford 
4:01.  at  the  Annunciation  next  and  other  40Z.  at  the  Annunciation 
folloAving.  Dated  Westminster,  Saturday  before  the  Translation  of 
St.  Thomas  40  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  4  July. 


40  EDWARD  III.  277 


1 3(5(3.  Membrane  21d — cont. 

Writing  of  Philip  Everaixi  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  lloger  dc  Meis  of  Kirketon  in  Holand,  John  (lode  of  Fleto,  Thomas 
de  la  Laund  and  Simon  son  of  Martin  do  Jlolbcche,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  t\\  o  messuages,  87  acres  1  rood  of  land  in  Flete  and  Holbeche, 
one  messuage  and  30  acres  thereof  lying  in  Flete  between  Grondesgate 
on  the  south  and  land  of  John  de  Littelbyrs  on  the  north,  the  otlier 
messuage  in  Fletc  between  the  messuage  of  William  Alby  on  the 
east  and  a  messuage  of  the  said  John  Hode  on  the  west,  one  piece 
of  land  called  the  Grippel  containing  11  acres  in  Flete,  another  called 
Milkhous  in  Flete  containing  8  acres,  another  in  Flete  at  Dawkynes- 
gate  containing  3  acres  1  rood,  10  acres  of  land  in  Flete  at  Maltersbrigge 
called  Maltersmedwe  and  Malterslond,  5  acres  of  land  in  Flete  at 
Crispes  b}^  land  of  Richard  Crisp  on  the  south,  6  acres  of  land  in  Flete 
at  Langerethe,  3  J  acres  of  land  in  Flete  called  Quyddykrigg  and  Mary- 
rigg,  and  4|  acres  of  land  in  Holbeche  at  Wyndesore.  Witnesses  : 
Robert  de  Haverj'^ngton  of  Flete,  Lawrence  de  Flete,  Thomas  Ray 
of  the  same,  William  de  Gedeneye  of  the  same,  Richard  Fraunceys 
of  Holbeche,  Richard  Everard  of  Wysbeche,  Geoffrey  Richard  of 
Leveryngton.     Dated  Flete,  20  June  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  July. 

June  3.  John   Leukenore   of   Flechyngg   to   William   de   Eynesham   citizen 

Westminster,  and  j)epperer  of  London.     Recognisance  for   lOZ.,   to   be   levied,   in 
default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Sussex. 

Writing  of  Isabel  who  was  wife  of  Sir  Jolm  Brocas  knight,  being 
a  quitclaim  to  Bernard  Brocas  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the 
manor  of  Ponyngfold  with  the  members  and  parcels  thereof  as  well 
in  Surrey  as  in  Sussex.  Witnesses  :  William  Stokes  clerk,  William 
Tyrwhit  clerk,  Henry  Percehay,  William  Tauk,  Robert  Loxley. 
Dated  Monday  after  the  Translation  of  St.  Tliomas  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  July. 

Membrane  20d. 

Writing  of  John  Nelyng  of  Boxford  co.  Suffolk,  being  a  general 
release  to  Walter  Southous  and  Margaret  his  wife,  late  the  wife  of 
Richard  de  Cortenhale  sometime  the  king's  serjeant  at  arms  and 
his  executrix,  and  to  Richard  de  Saliam  parson  of  Stebbenheth, 
Robert  de  Appelby  the  king's  serjeant  at  arms  and  Thomas  de  Santon 
also  executors  of  the  said  Richard,  of  all  actions  real  and  personal, 
suits,  plaints  and  demands  by  reason  of  debt,  account,  trespass, 
waste,  imprisonment  or  otherwise.  Dated  London,  10  June 
40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  10  June. 

Writing  of  John  Nelyng  of  Boxford  co.  Suffolk,  being  a  general 
release  to  Peter  de  Ereswell  of  la  Brendwode  of  all  actions  real  and 
personal  by  reason  of  debt,  account,  covenant,  contract,  trespass 
etc.     Dated  London,  10  June  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  10  June. 

Writing  of  John  Nelyng  of  Boxford  co.  Suffolk,  granting  with 
warranty  to  Robert  de  Muskham  clerk,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the 
reversion  of  lands  in  Brendev^ode  and  Shenefeld  co.  Essex  by  the 


278  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1366.  Membrane  20d—cont. 

said  John  purchased  of  Richard  de  Cortenhale  the  king's  Serjeant 
at  arms,  and  after  at  the  suit  of  Walter  Southous  and  Margaret  his 
\viie,  executrix  of  the  said  Richard,  Richard  de  Saham  parson  of 
Stebbenhethe,  Robert  de  Appelby  the  king's  serjeant  at  arms  and 
Thomas  de  Santon  also  his  executors,  to  them  delivered  by  process 
in  chancery  according  to  the  ordinance  of  the  staple,  to  hold  until 
they  should  be  contented  of  400?.  wherein  the  said  John  was  bound 
to  the  said  Richard  de  Cortenhale  by  a  recognisance  made  before 
John  Pyel  late  mayor  of  the  staple  of  Westminster,  for  that  he  did 
not  pay  the  money  at  the  terms  appointed,  which  executors  with  the 
said  Walter  have  granted  all  their  estate  therein  to  John  de 
Folkyngham  clerk  and  Richard  de  Batheleye.  Dated  London, 
10  June  40  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  10  June. 

Writing  of  John  de  Folkyngham  and  Richard  de  Batheleye,  being 
an  attornment  to  Robert  de  Muskham  clerk  as  tenants  by  grant  of 
the  executors  of  Richard  de  Cortenhale  of  a  messuage  and  100  acres 
of  land,  5  acres  of  meadow,  10  acres  of  pasture,  2  acres  of  wood  and 
135.  4rf.  of  rent  in  the  towns  of  Brendewode  and  Shenefeld  late  of 
John  Nelyng  until  they  shall  have  levied  4001.  with  costs  and  damages 
for  default  of  payment,  by  execution  of  a  statute  merchant  made  by 
the  said  John  Nelyng  to  the  said  Richard  de  Cortenhale,  the  reversion 
of  which  lands  the  said  John  Nelyng  has  granted  to  the  said  Robert 
and  his  heirs.     Dated  London,  1  October  40  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  October, 

Indenture  made  at  London  11  June  40  Edward  III,  between  Sir 
Bernard  Brocas  knight  and  Simon  Levelyf  brewer  and  citizen  of 
London,  being  the  defeasance  of  a  statute  merchant  of  the  said  Sir 
Bernard  in  200Z.  payable  at  All  Saints  next  made  before  John 
Louekyn  mayor  of  London  and  William  de  Merston  clerk,  upon 
condition  that  Sir  Bernard,  his  heirs  or  executors,  shall  pay  50/.  to 
the  said  Simon,  his  heirs  or  executors,  in  the  church  of  St.  Paul 
London  on  Friday  after  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next,  and  other 
501.  on  Wednesday  after  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  following  :  also  of  a 
like  statute  merchant  in  480  marks  and  a  bond  of  the  said  Simon  in  20 
marks  payable  at  the  same  feast,  so  long  as  Sir  Bernard,  his  heirs  or 
their  assigns,  shall  peaceably  hold  the  manor  of  Weldon  co.  Nor- 
hampton  and  the  baiUwick  of  keeping  the  king's  buckhounds,  not 
being  ousted  thereof  without  fraud  or  covin  by  judgment  or  other- 
wise by  any  claiming  as  heir  or  by  escheat  of  the  possession  of 
Margaret  Bourhunte  late  the  wife  of  William  Daumvers  tenant  thereof, 
whose  cousin  and  heir  Maud  Lovel  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  TreM^e- 
man  claims  to  be ;  or  upon  condition  that  if  Sir  Bernard  be  so  ousted, 
and  he  his  heirs  or  their  executors  shall  obtain  against  the  said  Simon 
a  writ  of  debt  for  the  said  20  marks  addressed  to  the  sheriff  of  Nor- 
hampton  and  returnable  before  the  justices  of  the  Common  Bench 
warning  the  said  Simon  (if  living)  at  his  tenements  in  London  in 
presence  of  four  good  men  his  neighbours  one  month  before  such 
writ  be  returnable,  the  said  Simon  shall  come  and  plead  that 
the  said  Maud  is  cousin  and  true  heir  of  the  said  Margaret,  and  it 
shall  so  be  found  by  verdict  of  an  inquisition  of  men  of  that  county  ; 
or  that  if  the  said  Simon  shall  not  come,  or  shall  come  and  so  plead 


40  EDWAIU)  III.  279 


136C).  Membrane  20d — cont. 

and  it  shall  not  be  so  found  by  verdict,  or  the  verdict  shall  be  contrary 
to  other  plea  of  his  in  the  said  suit,  the  said  Simon,  his  heirs  or 
executors,  shall  pay  to  Sir  Bernard,  his  heirs  or  executors,  250  marks 
within  half  a  year  after  ;  or  that  if  after  the  said  Simon's  death  Sir 
Bernard,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  shall  be  so  ousted  by  any  true  heir  of 
the  said  Margaret  other  t\lian  the  said  Maud  or  her  heirs,  or  by  any 
other  having  their  estate,  or  having  right  by  escheat  for  lack  of  such 
heirs,  within  one  half  year  after  warning  given  250  marks  shall  be 
paid  them.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  12  June. 

Membrane  19d. 

June  13.  Mainprise  of  Odo  Purchas  and  Hugh  atte  Churche  citizens  and 
Westminster,  drapers  of  London  for  William  de  Chirchull  imprisoned  in  the  Flete 
prison  for  an  alleged  deceit  committed  against  the  king  touching  proof 
of  the  age  of  William  son  and  heir  of  William  de  Sepvans,  a  minor 
in  the  king's  wardship,  to  have  the  said  prisoner's  body  if  living  before 
the  king  and  council  upon  warning  received  to  answer  concerning 
that  deceit,  and  to  do  and  receive  what  by  the  king  and  council  shall 
be  determined. 

Order  thereupon  to  the  warden  of  the  Flete  or  to  his  repre- 
sentative to  set  free  the  said  William  by  this  mainprise. 

June  16.         Thomas  de  Brideport  of  Dorset  to  Queen  Philippa.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  10/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Dorset. 

Writing  of  John  de  Neketon  chaplain,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  John  de  Crull  and  Margaret  his  wife,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  all  lands,  rents  and  services  of  free  tenants  and  neifs  late  of  William 
de  Neketon  his  father  in  the  towns  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  Berton, 
Hepworth,  Lyvermere,  Fornham  St.  Martin,  Tymeworth,  Pakenham, 
Ixworth,  Stanton,  Bernyngham,  Weston,  Watlesfeld,  Thelnetham, 
Mildenhale  and  Melford,  and  of  the  advowson  of  Hepworth  church. 
Witnesses  :  Thomas  de  Morieux,  William  de  Resshebrok  knights, 
Alexander  Bouresyard  parson  of  Barsham,  Michael  de  Bures,  John 
de  Rokwode,  Thomas  de  Ty.     Dated  Berton,  10  April  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  16  June. 

June  17.    '     John  Melford  of  Kent  to  Thomas  de  Gylyngham.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  40Z.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Kent. 

June  17.        Thomas  de  Gylyngham  of  Kent  to  William  de  Halden.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  100  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Kent. 

June  18.         Wilham   Hanred   of    Pisford   to    Richard    Wydevylle   of   Grafton. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  401.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Norhamptonsliire. 

June  19.         Ralph  Thurbern  to  Walter  Wliithors.     Recognisance  for  201.,   to 
Westminster,  be  levied  etc.  in  Surrey. 

William  Cheyne  the  younger  to  the  said  Walter.  Recognisance 
for  lOL,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Sussex. 


280  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


X36g.  Membrane  19d — cont. 

Roger  Asshebornham  to  the  said  Walter.  Recognisance  for  10/., 
to  be  levied  etc.  in  Sussex. 

Walter  Warnham  to  Walter  Wliithors.  Recognisance  for  10/.,  to 
be  levied  etc.  in  Sussex. 

Richard  Northwich  and  John  Offam  to  Walter  Whithors.  Recog- 
nisance for  10/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Kent. 

June  20.         Simon  de  Codyngton  knight  to   Walter  Whithors.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  10/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Surrey. 

Richard  Fifhide  to  Walter  Whithors.  Recognisance  for  10/.,  to 
be  levied  etc.  in  Essex. 

June  21.  To  the  mayor  of  the  city  of  London.  Order  to  call  before  him 
Westminster,  the  aldermen,  vintners,  merchants  and  others  of  the  said  city  whom 
he  shall  think  needful,  and  after  advice  and  deliberation  had  to  cause 
such  order  and  measure  to  be  taken  and  observed  touching  the  sale 
of  wines  therein  as  the  people  shall  feel  to  be  for  their  peace  and 
advantage,  that  the  king  need  not  be  troubled  hereafter  for  lack  of 
such  order  ;  as  there  is  now  great  dearness  in  the  sale  of  Avines  there, 
and  the  same  is  daily  arising  to  the  expense  of  the  common  weal, 
wherefore  the  murmuring  of  the  people  is  grievously  increased. 
[Foedera.']  By  K.  and  C. 

June  25.         Richard   Dyere  of   Abyndon   to    William  Coke  of  Agmundesham. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  60/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  Berkshire. 

Indenture  made  between  William  Coke  of  Agmundesham  and 
Richard  Dyer  of  Abyndon,  being  a  defeasance  of  the  foregoing 
recognisance,  and  of  a  bond  made  by  the  said  Richard  for  60/.  pay- 
able at  the  Epiphany  next,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Richard 
shall  pay  10/.  at  the  said  feast  or  within  six  days  after  at  the  house 
of  Simon  de  Mordon  in  Thamsestrete  London,  10/.  at  Midsummer 
following  or  within  six  days  after,  10/.  at  the  Epiphany  following 
or  within  six  days  after,  and  10/.  at  Midsummer  following  or  within 
six  days  after  at  the  same  place,  and  he  shall  have  acquittance  for 
every  payment  so  made  or  be  discharged  thereof  until  he  have 
acquittance  or  receipt  in  a  court  of  record.  Dated  London,  26  June 
40  Edward  III.    French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  the  same  day. 

July  1.  Henry  Chaumberleyn  of  Wykenby  to  Richard  de  Ravensere  clerk. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  40/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Lincolnshire. 
'     Cancelled  on  payment. 

July  1.  Simon  de  Clyve,  parson  of  the  church  of  St.  Mary  Staunford  in 

Westminster,  the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  to  Thomas  de  Thelwall  parson  of  Pokebroke. 
Recognisance  for  2  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Lincolnshire. 


40  EDWARD  III.  281 


18()().  Membrane  I9d — cont. 

July  4.  John   Hay    and   Robert   Paslcwe   of   Norhamptonshire   to   Robert 

Westminster.  Trcsilian  of  Cornwall.     Recognisance  for  40Z.,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  bis 
lands  and  chattels  in  Norhamptonshire. 

June  14.         Cuillelma*  de  Boloigne,  one  of  the  damsels  of  the  king's  aunt  the 

Westminster,  countess  marshal  lately  deceased,  is  sent  to  the  prior  and  convent  of 

St.  Faith  CO.  Norfolk  to  have  such  maintenance  of  that  house  as  in 

meat  and  raiment  as  Maud  late  servant  of  Eva  Datxdele  deceased 

had  there  of  the  king's  grant.  By  p.s.  [27023.] 

June  8  John  Pusy  is  sent  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Mount  St.  Michael 

Eltham.      in   Cornwall,    to   have   such    maintenance  as  in  meat,  raiment   etc. 
as  Reynold  Trewynnard  deceased  had  there  of  the  late  king's  grant. 

By  p.s.  [27014.] 

Membrane  IM. 

Indentxu'e  made  between  the  king  and  Henry  Crowe  of  Neubury, 
being  a  lease  from  2G  March  last  until  Michaelmas  next  and  thence- 
forward for  three  years  of  the  subsidy  in  Oxfordshire  and  Berkshire 
upon  cloth  for  sale  granted  to  the  king  by  the  lords  and  commons 
of  the  realm  for  release  of  the  forfeiture  of  alnage,  rendering  every 
year  10/.  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  and  the  due 
proportion  thereof  from  26  March  to  Michaelmas  next  etc.  [as  above, 
p.  70),  with  covenant  that  the  farmer  shall  have  the  third  part  of  the 
forfeitures.     Dated  Westminster,  10  June  40  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  that  the  said  Henry  has  found  no  mainpernors  for 
that  it  is  witnessed  in  chancery  by  credible  persons  that  he  is  suffi- 
cient and  faithful. 

Like  indentures  are  made  with  the  following  persons  : 

Henry  Herward  and  Thomas  de  Lacford  of  Bury  for  Essex  and 

Hertfordshire  from  20  June  this  year  for  two  years  with  half 

the  forfeitures  ;  rent  24/.  at  Martinmas  and  Midsummer,     Dated 

20  June.     French. 

Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  for  the  said  farm  by  William  Horscrof t 

and  Thomas  de  Lacford  '  pelter  '  citizens  of  London. 
John  Ray  of  Coventre  and  Nicholas  Prille  of  Lodelowe  for 
Warwickshire,  Lej'cestershire,  Staffordshire  and  Salop  from 
Michaelmas  last  for  three  years  with  the  third  part  of 
the  forfeitures,  rent  50  marks  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas. 
Dated  8  October.  French.  William  Palmer  of  Warwickshire, 
Robert  de  Barton  of  Coventre  and  Thomas  Pynner  of  Coventre 
mainpernors. 
Roger  Comyn  of  BunshuU  for  Herefordshire  from  Michaelmas 
last  for  three  years  with  the  third  part  of  the  forfeitures,  rent 
4/.  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas.  Dated  8  October.  French. 
Roger  de  Nassh  and  William  de  Podmore  of  Lulleham  co. 
Hereford  mainpernors. 
Robert  de  Acastre  for  Yorkshire,  Northumberland,  Cumberland 
and  Westmorland  from  Michaelmas  last  for  three  years  with 
the  whole  of  the  forfeitures,  rent  53  marks  at  Easter  and 
Michaelmas.  Dated  12  October.  French.  No  mainpernors, 
because  the  said  Robert  is  sufficient. 


Jji  llie  warrant  {French)  Gylymote  do  Boloi^e. 


282  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366.  Membrane  ISd — cont. 

John  de  Mottesfont  for  the  county  of  Suthampton  from  Michael- 
mas last  until  Michaelmas  next  with  the  whole  of  the  forfeitures, 
rent  201.  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas.  Dated  8  October.  French. 
No  mainpernors,  because  the  said  John  is  sufficient. 

Peter  Sterre  of  London  for  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London  and 
for  Middlesex  from  Michaelmas  last  for  one  year  -ndth  a  moiety 
of  the  forfeitures,  rent  100  marks  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas, 
Dated  10  November,     French. 


Membrane  lid. 

Assignment  of  dower  to  Isabel  who  was  wife  of  Walter  de 
Faucomberge  tenant  in  chief,  made  at  Skelton  on  Friday  in  Easter 
week  40  Edward  III  before  William  de  Raygate  escheator  in 
Yorkshire  by  virtue  of  a  writ  to  him  addressed,  in  presence  of  John 
de  Bentele  attorney  of  Richard  de  Ravenser,  treasurer  of  Queen 
Phihppa  to  whom  the  king  has  committed  the  wardship  of  two  thirds 
of  the  said  Walter's  lands.  Two  tofts  in  the  burgage  of  Skelton  held 
by  John  Bakester  the  younger  rent  Gd.  a  year,  a  messuage,  three 
tofts  and  one  bovate  of  land  in  the  same  town  held  by  the  said  John 
rent  8s,  a  year,  two  tofts  in  the  same  town  held  in  burgage  by  Alice 
Rose  rent  4d.  a  year,  two  tofts  in  the  same  town  held  in  burgage  by 
Thomas  Wauterservant  rent  6d.  a  year,  one  toft  there  held  in  burgage 
by  John  son  of  Robert  rent  2d.  a  year,  one  toft  there  held  in  burgage 
by  Maud  servant  of  Cuthbert  rent  2d.  a  year,  four  tofts  there  held  in 
burgage  by  Walter  de  Meryngton  rent  lid.  a  year,  one  toft  there 
held  in  burgage  by  William  Goldyng  rent  2d.  a  year,  7d.  rent  of  the 
wardens  of  St.  Mary's  light  in  the  said  town,  one  messuage  and  three 
tofts  there  held  in  burgage  by  Walter  Emmeson  rent  18d.  a  year,  one 
toft  and  two  bovates  of  land  held  by  the  said  Walter  rent  95.  a  year, 
one  toft  there  held  in  burgage  by  Roger  Couper  rent  2d.  a  year, 
together  ^^•ith  all  the  services  of  the  tenants  aforesaid  ;  Ihd.  of  rent 
to  be  taken  of  a  messuage  and  3  acres  of  land  in  the  said  town  held 
by  Roger  de  Uplithum,  2^d.,  10  horse  shoes  and  one  barbed  arrow  of  a 
messuage,  one  toft,  four  bovates  of  land  and  a  '  ferland '  held  by  Joan 
Terry,  Id.  and  four  barbed  arrows  of  two  messuages,  one  toft  and 
one  bovate  of  land  held  by  John  Bakester  the  elder,  12  acres  of  land 
in  the  same  town  held  by  Alice  de  Bilton  rent  3s.  Sd.,  Id.  and  one 
horse  nail  to  be  taken  of  two  pieces  of  ground  in  Burghgate  and 
Estgate  held  by  the  said  Alice,  4:d.  a  year  rent  of  a  messuage,  8|  acres 
of  land  and  two  '  riddeings  '  held  by  Robert  Trower,  2d.  and  four 
barbed  arrow  heads  of  a  messuage  and  four  bovates  of  land  held  by 
William  son  of  Robert  Capoun,  with  all  services  of  those  tenants  ; 
a  messuage,  piece  of  ground  and  one  acre  of  land  held  by  Roger  Cam- 
pioun  rent  3s.  Id.  a  year,  a  messuage  held  by  John  de  Westland  rent 
3d.  a  year,  with  all  services  of  those  tenants  ;  a  piece  ot  waste  by  the 
Westbek  in  the  said  town  held  by  John  de  Mersk  rent  2d.  a  year, 
a  piece  of  waste  there  held  by  John  Jollan  rent  7^d.  and  the  third 
part  of  a  fathing  a  year,  a  messuage  with  a  croft,  and  a  toft  with 
a  croft  in  the  said  town  held  by  John  son  of  Nicholas  neif  [nativus) 
rent  3.s.  M.  a  year,  a  piece  of  land  there  held  by  Robert  Dodgeson 
neif  rent  \d.,  with  other  services  and  suits  of  the  said  neifs  and  all 
that  goes  with  them  ;  two  messuages  and  one  bovate  of  land  there 
held  by  John  del  Park  neif  rent  35,  4d,  a  year,  with  ail  services  etc.  j 


40  EDWARD  III.  283 


1866i  Membrane  lid — cont. 

one  messuage  w  ith  a  croft  there  held  M'  John  Hyrp  rent  25.  6d.  a  year, 
two  bovates  of  land  there  held  by  John  de  Eseby  rent  6s.  a  year, 
a  toft  there  held  by  John  Tailliour  rent  2s.  a  year,  two  messuages, 
four  bovates  of  land  and  the  '  Stancrokcs  '  there  held  by  William 
Gibson  rent  18s.  a  year,  a  messuage  and  one  bovate  of  land  there 
licld  by  LaA\rcnce  Scot  rent  4s.  a  year,  4:d.  a  year  rent  to  be  taken  of 
Odnelriddyngg  held  by  Thomas  de  Thweng,  two  tofts  and  one  bovate 
of  land  there  held  by  John  de  Mersk  rent  5s.  a  year,  a  messuage  with 
a  croft  there  held  by  Richard  son  of  Thomas  rent  3s.  4cf.  a  year,  two 
tofts  by  Cutbertlangwath  and  one  bovate  of  land  there  held  by  Roger 
Clerkson  rent  4s.  4:d.  a  year,  the  third  part  of  a  piece  of  land  held 
by  Emma  Couracowe  rent  ^d.  a  year,  with  all  services  and  suits  of 
those  tenants  and  all  that  goes  with  them  ;  in  a  place  called  Stang- 
howe  three  messuages,  one  toft  and  2^  bovates  of  land  held  by 
Wilham  de  Duresme  rent  15s.  a  year,  a  messuage  and  two 
bovates  of  land  there  held  by  Roger  son  of  Peter  rent  5s.  6d. 
a  year,  with  all  services  and  suits  of  those  tenants  and  all  that  goes 
with  them  ;  in  a  place  called  Grenrig  two  messuages,  four  bovates 
of  land  and  Michelfeld  held  by  John  son  of  Hugh  rent  24s.  a  year, 
a  messuage  standing  upon  Fonteyneshenge  with  Fontenshenge  held 
by  Isabel  de  Grenrige  rent  3s.  2d.  a  year  ;  of  the  demesne  lands  in 
Skelton,  in  a  place  called  the  Northfeld  1  acre  8^  perches  of  land 
towards  the  west,  9  acres  |  rood  of  land,  in  a  place  called  the  Miln- 
holme  1  acre  8^  perches  of  land  towards  the  west  and  9^  acres  1  rood 
in  the  Milnholme  towards  the  west,  in  Roshowe  14|^  acres  and  the 
third  part  of  an  acre  of  land  towards  the  west,  in  Brakanheved  3| 
acres  and  10  perches  of  land  towards  the  north,  in  Roskeldsyk  2| 
acres  J  rood  of  land  towards  the  west,  in  Wandelflat  4^  acres  of  land 
towards  the  north,  in  Rothwayte  9  acres  1  rood  of  land  towards  the 
west,  in  Mikelrig  17  acres  1  rood  2  perches  of  land  towards  the  west ; 
in  the  Southfeld  in  a  place  called  Stakhowlythflat  6J  acres  J  rood  of 
land  towards  the  south,  in  Berylythflat  4  acres  3  roods  10  perches  of 
land  towards  the  north,  in  Plexmanflat  5  acres  1  rood  5  perches  towards 
the  east,  in  Cadycroft  4|  acres  the  third  part  of  an  acre  and  10  perches 
of  land  towards  the  west,  in  Cotecroft  1|  acre  1  rood  5  perches  of  land 
towards  the  west,  in  Asedaleflat  16  acres  of  land  towards  the  east ; 
in  the  Westfeld  19|  acres  6  perches  of  land  towards  the  south,  in 
a  place  called  Waynleghes  8  acres  3  roods  of  land  towards  the  south  ; 
in  the  Estfeld  in  a  place  called  Escheflat  6  acres  1  rood  1  perch  of 
land  towards  the  south,  in  Daltonflat  12J  acres  |  rood  of  land  towards 
the  north,  in  Wakestandaleflat  9 J  acres  ^  rood  ot  land  towards  the  east, 
in  Osmundflat  2|  acres  the  third  part  of  an  acre  and  ^  rood  of  land 
towards  the  east,  in  Barlyfiat  1  acre  3^  roods  of  land  towards  the  south, 
in  Rughewflat  9  acres  of  land  towards  the  south,  in  Belheved  1  acre 
8  perches  of  land  towards  the  east ;  in  the  Westfeld,  on  the  north 
side  of  the  road  to  the  park  17J  acres  of  land  towards  the  west ;  the 
whole  place  called  the  Holmes  except  12d.  pertaining  to  the  heir  of 
Walter  de  Fauconberge  ;  of  the  demesne  meadows  in  Skelton,  in 
a  place  called  Roshowemar'  1  acre  10  perches  of  meadow  towards  the 
west,  in  the  Westfeld  1  acre  ^  rood  of  meadow  towards  the  north, 
in  the  Estfeld  in  a  place  called  Rughewsyk  |  acre  ^  rood  of  meadow 
towards  the  west,  in  Dalton  ^  acre  ^  acre  3  perches  of  meadow  towards 
the  north,  in  a  croft  called  Doufecotegarth  there  ^  acre  of  meadow, 
in  Cottecroft  1|  acre  9  perches  of  meadow,  in  Grayneenge  8  acres  of 


284  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366,  Membrane  lid — cont. 

meadow  towards  the  north,  and  the  whole  place  called  Mlnriddyng 
containing  3  acres  of  meadow  ;  the  ^^hole  park  called  Maugreypark 
as  enclosed  ;  a  piece  of  land  called  Tiddekenhowclose  with  the  houses 
adjoining,  the  whole  of  Elathowclose,  all  Assedale,  and  the  whole  place 
called  Camdale  ;  certain  pieces  of  land,  namely  the  Dale  below  the 
Habberenge  to  wit  from  Habberengdyk  to  Saltburne  milne,  and  the 
Ermitarme  namely  from  Nettilthwaytbothum  to  Flitcunthouse ;  in 
a  place  called  Assedalefiat  the  third  part  of  a  sheepfold,  the  said 
third  part  containing  66|^  feet  and  the  third  part  of  one  foot  of  land 
to  the  north  ;  the  third  part  of  four  water  mills  with  their  members 
in  Skelton,  and  the  thiid  part  of  one  fulling  mill  with  the  profits  thereof, 
the  third  part  of  the  profit  of  the  toll  of  the  market  and  fair  there, 
of  the  assize  of  bread  and  ale,  of  the  profit  arising  from  the  furnaces, 
from  all  ponds  and  fish  ponds  there,  so  that  the  said  Isabel  may  fish 
therein  at  Avill,  and  from  all  agistments  A\'ithout  the  parks  there,  the 
third  part  of  the  profit  of  all  wastes  within  the  lordship  of  Skelton 
\\  ith  the  members,  of  all  occasional  profits  in  woods  and  plains  as  in  the 
case  of  sparrowhawks,  hawks,  and  of  other  birds  and  of  beasts  when 
such  there  be,  of  marl,  coal,  quarries,  slates,  mines  of  lead  and  iron, 
and  of  other  mines  whatsoever  within  the  lordship  of  Skelton, 
so  that  she  may  take  profits  of  mining  at  will,  of  the  profit  arising  from 
neifs  not  named  above  without  the  lordship  or  within  when  such  there 
be,  of  the  profit  of  '  housebote  '  and  '  hay  bote  '  for  her  and  her  tenants, 
with  free  ingress  and  egress,  for  burning,  enclosing  and  building  \^hen 
need  be,  of  the  profit  arising  from  the  '  morhyre  '  there,  of  the  venison 
in  the  warrens,  namely  in  the  fields  of  Skelton,  Stanghowe  and  Grenrig, 
and  in  all  meadows,  woods,  closes,  plains,  feedings  and  pastures 
there,  so  that  she  may  hunt  at  will  in  all  the  said  lordship  and  members, 
the  parks  pertaining  to  the  said  heir  excepted,  of  the  profits  arising 
from  beasts  which  come  up  as  '  wafes  '  within  the  said  lordship  when 
such  there  be,  and  the  thii'd  part  of  the  fishing  in  fresh  waters,  so  that 
she  may  fish  therein  at  will ;  the  whole  of  the  capital  messuage  of 
the  manor  of  Mersk  with  the  dovecot,  orchards,  gardens  and  ditches 
thereto  adjoining  in  allowance  for  Skelton  castle  which  shall  wholly 
remain  with  the  said  heir  ;  of  the  demesne  lands  in  Mersk,  namely  in 
the  Estfeld  in  a  place  called  the  Toftes  21  acres  3  roods  3  perches 
of  land  towards  the  west, 

Membrane  16i. 

in  Pitflat  26  acres  1  rood  5  perches  of  land  towards  the  west,  in 
Rouclifflatt  towards  the  west  14  acres  1  rood  the  third  part  of  the 
moiety  of  one  acre  and  5  perches  of  land,  in  the  Langflat  toward  the 
west  13  acres  3|  roods  10  perches  of  land  ;  in  the  Westfeld  in  a  place 
called  Langflatt  towards  the  west  33|  acres  the  third  part  of  half 
an  acre  and  8  perches  of  land,  in  Gildonsflatt  towards  the  north 
6^  acres  8  perches  of  land,  in  Grenwalfiatt  towards  the  west  21 1  acres 
11  perches  of  land,  in  Stodfald  towards  the  west  26 J  acres  2  perches 
of  land,  in  the  Brok  towards  the  Avest  8J  acres  of  land  ;  in  the 
Southfeld  in  a  place  called  Upphthumflatt  towards  the  west  7  acres 
3J  roods  5  perches  of  land  ;  in  Ridker  in  a  place  called  Southbuttes 
towards  the  west  the  moiety  of  one  acre  and  the  third  part  of  one 
half  acre  of  land,  in  the  Northbuttes  towards  the  north  2J  acres 
1  rood  10  perches  of  land,  in  Swartmoldflatt  towards  the  west  24  acres 
the  third  part  of  one  half  acre  and  5  perches  of  land,  in  Wyndilstreflatt 


40  EDWARD  III.  285 


13GG.  ^      Membrane  16c? — cont. 

Midd(>]flat  towards  the  west  25J  acres  6  porches  of  land,  in  Barlyflatt 
toAvards  the  west  4  acres  10  perches,  and  in  Turfhowe  towards  the 
west  5 J  acres  of  land  ;  of  the  drniesne  nicadoAvs  within  the  lordship 
of  Mersk,  in  the  Estfeld  the  moiety  of  one  acre  the  thiid  part  of  one 
half  acre  and  2  perches  of  meadow  towards  the  west,  in  a  close  by  the 
said  manor  towards  the  west  2  acres  ^  rood  3  perches  of  meadow, 
in  a  meadow  called  the  Bradenge,  namely  in  the  first  part  thereof  on 
the  south  side  16|  perches  of  meadow,  and  on  the  south  side  20  perches, 
and  on  the  south  side  25  perches  of  meadow  ;  of  the  several  pastures 
pertaining  to  the  manor  of  Mersk  in  a  place  called  the  Legh  towards 
the  south  32  acres  3  roods  of  pasture  ;  the  third  part  of  the  pastures 
of  the  dikes  around  the  Bradenge,  with  the  agistments  in  the  fields, 
pastures  and  closes  by  the  said  manor  and  the  profits  thereof  ;  in 
the  Estfeld  toAvards  the  west  1|  acres  the  third  part  of  one  half  acre 
and  10  perches  of  pasture  ;  in  the  Westfeld  towards  the  west  the  third 
part  of  four  pieces  of  pasture  by  Grenwallpitflatt,  Langbek  and 
Langflatt  with  the  profits  thereof  ;  in  the  Southfeld  towards  the  west 
2  acres  J  rood  1  perch  of  pasture  ;  the  third  part  of  the  soil  of  the 
pasture  of  Langmere  of  Ridker  towards  the  west  as  well  in  soil  as  in 
money  ;  divers  pieces  of  ground  called  '  saltcotes  '  in  Mersk  and  Cotum, 
namely  one  '  saltcote  '  held  by  William  son  of  Robert  rent  5  bushels 
of  salt  a  year,  one  held  bj'^  Litil  Doge  of  Westcotum  rent  5  bushels 
of  salt  a  year,  one  held  by  Roger  de  Brakton  of  Westcotum  rent 
5  bushels  of  salt  a  year,  one  held  by  Roger  Marke  rent  5  bushels  of 
salt  a  year,  one  held  by  Roger  son  of  Margaret  rent  5  bushels  of  salt 
a  year,  the  moiety  of  one  '  saltcote  '  held  by  Thomas  son  of  Richard 
rent  2^  bushels  of  salt  a  year,  and  the  moiety  of  one  held  by  Robert 
Berier  rent  2|  bushels  of  salt  a  year  ;  a  messuage  and  2  acres  of  land 
in  the  town  and  fields  of  Mersk  held  by  Robert  Cuttaple  rent  35.  Ad. 
a  year,  a  messuage  with  a  croft  there  held  by  William  son  of  John 
son  of  Thomas  rent  35.  4(i.  a  year,  a  messuage  with  a  croft  there  held 
by  John  son  of  Thomas  rent  45.  a  year,  with  the  services  and  suits 
of  those  tenants  and  all  that  goes  with  them  ;  25.  8c?.  to  be  taken  of 
four  messuages,  three  tofts,  five  bovates  and  16  acres  of  land  held 
by  Alan  de  Mersk,  a  messuage  with  a  croft  and  one  house  and  2  acres 
of  land  there  held  by  John  son  of  Adam  the  younger  rent  25.  3c?.  a  year, 
a  toft  with  a  croft,  two  houses  on  the  waste  and  3^  acres  of  land 
there  held  by  Robert  son  of  Robert  son  of  Alan  rent  65.  6d.  a  year, 
20c?.  to  be  taken  of  a  messuage  and  seven  bovates  of  land  there  which 
Roger  Daunax  holds  by  knight  service,  Halfpenyflatt  held  by 
William  de  Foulthorp  rent  9|c?.  and  the  third  part  of  a  farthing,  with 
all  services  of  the  said  tenants  ;  two  messuages,  one  toft  with  a  croft, 
two  bovates  and  15  acres  of  land  in  the  said  town  held  by  Alan  son 
of  Robert  neif  (nativus)  rent  345.  a  year,  four  tofts  and  a  half  and 
four  bovates  of  land  there  held  by  Hugh  Wryght  neif  rent  395.  a  year, 
a  messuage,  a  toft  and  four  bovates  of  land  held  by  William  Storrour 
neif  rent  365.  a  year,  two  m.essuages,  four  bovates  6  acres  3  roods  of 
land  held  by  Wilham  Hamondson  neif  rent  405. 10|/Z.  a  year,  a  messuage, 
a  toft,  two  bovates  2J  acres  1  rood  of  land  held  by  Thomas  Wryght 
neif  rent  305.  4ic?.  a  year,  a  messuage,  two  bovates  6  acres  3  roods  of 
land  held  by  William  son  of  Robert  Grayne  neif  rent  245.  5|c?.  a  year, 
two  tofts  held  by  Robert  Sibson  neif  rent  25.  a  year,  two  messuages 
with  a  croft  held  by  William  Swynhird  neif  rent  65.  a  year,  two  tofts 
and  2  acres  of  land  held  by  William  son  of  Roger  neif  rent  35.  4:d. 


286  CALENDAR  OP  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366,'  Membrane  IQd — cont 

a  year,  with  the  services  and  suits  of  the  tenants  and  all  that  goes 
with  them  ;  two  messuages  and  two  bovates  of  land  in  the  said  town 
held  by  Richard  son  of  John  son  of  Thomas  rent  25s.  a  year,  one  bovate 
of  land  held  by  Thomas  de  Allirdale  rent  85.  a  year,  two  bovates 
of  land  there  held  by  Walter  Idoingson  rent  16s.  a  year,  a  messuage 
with  a  croft  held  by  John  son  of  Julian  neif  rent  2s.  a  year,  a  messuage 
one  bovate  and  a  half  and  2|  acres  of  land  held  by  William  de 
Areshome  rent  13s.  Gd.  a  year,  with  the  services  and  suits  of  the  tenants 
and  all  that  goes  with  them  ;  also  in  a  place  called  Ridker  and  else- 
where a  messuage  and  one  acre  of  land  held  by  Joan  who  was  wife 
of  Robert  Sturmy  rent  I2d.  a  year,  a  messuage  and  one  acre  of  land 
held  by  Robert  Strewe  rent  12c?.  a  year,  a  messuage  and  one  acre  of 
land  held  by  Emma  Benne  rent  12c?.  a  year,  a  messuage  and  one  acre 
of  land  held  by  John  Watson  rent  1 2d.  a  year,  a  messuage  and  2  acres 
of  land  held  by  Thomas  de  Manfeld  rent  2s.  lie?,  a  year,  a  messuage 
with  a  croft  held  by  Stephen  Shephird  rent  3s.  4c?.  a  year,  a  messuage 
with  a  croft  and  2  acres  of  land  in  Uplithum  called  '  Drengland  '  held 
by  John  Widowson  of  Uplithum  rent  5s.  a  year,  and  two  tofts  and 
2  acres  of  land  in  Rydker  held  tyy  Robert  son  of  Adam  rent  2s.  a  year, 
with  all  services  of  the  tenants  ;  in  Mersk  and  Ridker  a  toft  and  one 
acre  of  land  held  by  Roger  Brass  neif  rent  12c?.  a  y«ar,  a  toft  and 
2  acres  of  land  held  by  John  Melkyn  neif  rent  3s.  a  year,  a  toft  and 
one  acre  of  land  held  by  Roger  son  of  Thomas  neif  rent  12c?.  a  year, 
a  toft  and  one  acre  of  land  held  by  Robert  son  of  Hugh  neif  rent  12d. 
a  year,  a  toft,  one  house  upon  the  waste  and  one  acre  of  land  held  by 
Emma  Melkyn  neive  rent  15d.  a  year,  a  messuage  and  IJ  acre  of  land 
in  Ridker  held  by  Alice  Hudson  neive  rent  2s.  a  year,  a  messuage 
with  a  croft  held  by  Walter  Graunger  neif  rent  4s.  a  year,  three  tofts 
and  one  acre  of  land  held  by  Thomas  Hamondson  neif  rent  3s.  8c?. 
a  year,  with  the  services,  suits  and  demands  of  the  said  neives  and 
other  tenants  and  all  that  goes  with  them  ;  the  third  part  of  one 
windmill  in  Mersk  and  Ridker  with  the  profit  thereof,  the  third  part 
of  the  profit  there  arising  from  wTcck  of  the  sea,  from  all  boats  in 
Ridker  as  well  of  prises  as  of  farms  when  such  there  be,  from  neifs  not 
already  assigned  to  her  within  the  lordship  and  without,  and  from 
the  ferry  of  the  '  Melhoddes  '  when  such  there  be,  the  third  part  of 
the  '  conynger  '  M-ith  the  profit  thereof,  of  the  profit  arising  from  the 
toll  of  Mersk  and  Ridker,  of  all  wastes  and  agistments  of  Mersk  and 
Ridker,  of  all  pastures  there  not  already  assigned  to  her,  of  the  toll 
of  Middelesburgh  and  all  other  profits  within  the  lordship  not  already 
assigned,  the  third  part  of  the  profit  arising  from  marl,  coal,  mines  of 
iron,  slate  or  other  mines  Avhatsoever  when  such  there  be,  so  that 
she  may  take  profit  of  mining  at  will,  and  from  the  court  of  Mid- 
delesburgh for  search  of  the  river  These,  of  all  venison  of  the  warrens 
or  without  in  the  fields,  meadows,  woods,  closes,  pastures  or  elsewhere 
within  the  lordship  of  Mersk  and  Ridker,  the  parks  pertaining  to  the 
heir  of  Walter  de  Faucomberge  excepted,  so  that  she  may  hunt  at 
will,  the  third  part  of  the  profit  arising  from  '  wayves  '  there,  and  of 
any  other  profits  not  already  named,  and  the  third  part  of  the 
'  gettes  de  mere  '  when  such  there  be  ;  all  profits  of  court  arising  from 
all  tenants  above  assigned  to  her,  free  men  and  neifs,  and  all  other 
their  suits  and  services  with  the  goods  and  chattels,  suits,  services 
and  lands  of  the  said  neifs  and  all  that  goes  with  them  in  the  manors 
of  Skelton  and  Mersk  with   their   members ;    in  Nunnyngton    two 


40  EDWARD  III.  287 


1366.  Membrane  IGd — cont. 

messuages  and  two  bovates  of  land  held  by  John  de  Bilton  rent  17s.  a 
year  with  all  his  services;  a  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Brantyngham, 
as  of  houses,  gardens  and  all  other  la^ds,  namely  one  grange  on 
the  south  side  of  the  manor,  one  '  bakhowse '  and  '  brcwose '  on  the 
south  side  of  the  hall,  and  one  house  standing  between  the  gate  of 
the  manor  and  the  said  grange,  with  a  third  part  of  the  orchard  and 
gardens  of  the  manor  as  the  houses  above  mentioned  extend  in  length 
and  breadth  ;  of  the  demesne  lands  of  Brantyngham  9  acres  of  land 
in  a  place  called  Northbrakenbergh  and  Southbrakenbergh,  4  acres 
3  roods  of  land  in  Lynland  and  Dunsfeld,  5  acres  of  land  in  Hemenges 
and  Schortbuttes,  6  acres  3|  roods  of  land  in  Welbek,  3^  acres  1  rood 
of  land  about  Burghpittes  and  below  Burghpittes  towards  the  west, 
1|  acre  in  a  place  called  Sandhill  towards  the  west,  3  acres  1  rood  of 
land  in  a  place  called  Wandales,  the  moiety  of  one  acre  of  land 
in  a  place  called  the  Buttes  by  the  church,  and  9 J  acres  at  the 
Hedlandes  ;    of  the  demesne  meadows  of  Brantyngham  5|-  acres 

Membrane  15d. 

towards  the  west ;  a  third  part  of  the  several  pastures  in  the  Sykes 
there,  of  the  pasture  for  22  great  beasts,  and  of  the  common  of  pasture 
for  sheep  without  number  in  the  said  town  and  the  field  of  Brantyng- 
ham and  elsewhere  ;  in  the  town  of  Brantyngham  and  Cave 
7s.  Hid.  to  be  taken  of  a  messuage  and  10 J  bovates  of  land  held  by 
Richard  son  of  William,  I2d.  rent  to  be  taken  of  a  messuage  held  by 
Thomas  son  of  Henry,  45.  Sd.  of  a  messuage  and  four  bovates  of  land 
held  by  Cicely  sometime  wife  of  Simon  de  Ellirker,  35.  9d.  of  a  messuage 
and  four  bovates  6  acres  of  land  held  by  John  son  of  Thomas, 
nd.  a  year  of  a  messuage  and  one  bovate  of  land  held  by  Amand 
Wryglit,  2^rf.  of  4  acres  of  land  held  by  Christiana  Paty,  and  6s.  Sd. 
of  William  son  of  Peter  tenant  by  knight  service  of  the  said  manor 
paying  the  same ;  a  third  part  of  one  windmill  which  renders 
13s.  4c?.  a  year,  with  a  third  part  of  the  profit  thereof,  also  of  the  court 
there  ;  a  third  part  of  the  profit  of  one  dovecot  with  its  profits  ;  a 
third  part  of  all  profits  pertaining  to  the  manor  of  Brantyngham, 
with  all  services  pertaining  to  the  lands  assigned  to  her ;  and  a 
third  part  of  all  fees  and  advowsons  of  churches  in  Yorkshire  which 
were  of  her  said  husband  at  his  death. 

Writing  of  Christina  who  was  the  wife  of  Walter  Dunfouwe, 
being  a  quitclaim  to  William  Carles  and  Agnes  his  wife  and  to  Parnell 
who  was  wife  of  John  Boulewas  knight  of  a  messuage  and  appurtenances 
in  Hereford  called  Saymesplace  lying  in  Plesheuwerusrowe.  Dated 
Hereford,  Sunday  after  St.  John  Baptist  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  July. 

Writing  of  Christina  who  was  the  wife  of  Walter  Dunfouwe, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Parnell  who  was  wife  of  John 
Boulewas  knight,  her  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands  which  the 
said  Christina  lately  had  in  Suttonfren.  Witnesses  :  John  de  Burleye 
knight,  Stephen  de  Lugwardyn,  Roger  Partrich,  Nicholas  Wyke, 
Nicholas  de  Eye.  Dated  Hereford,  Sunday  after  Midsummer 
40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  July. 


288 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366. 

July  10. 
Westminster. 


July  11. 

Westminster. 


July  22. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  15d — cont. 

Master  John  de  Bolton  parson  of  Lythe  to  William  Heroun  knight 
and  Richard  de  Swynhope  clerk.  Recognisance  for  14Z.  10s.,  to  be 
levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  and 
ecclesiastical  goods  in  Yorkshire. 

Charter  of  William  de  Wilmynton,  giving  with  warranty  to  the 
king,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  all  his  lands  in  Derteford  and  Wylmynton 
which  descended  to  him  as  son  and  heir  after  the  death  of  William 
his  father.  Dated  Derteford,  Saturday  before  the  Translation  of 
St.  Thomas  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  8  July. 

Henry  de  Strother  to  Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Coupland. 
Recognisance  for  500  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of 
his  lands  and  chattels  in  Northumberland. 

To  the  sheriff  of  York.  Order  at  his  peril  to  cause  proclamation  to 
be  made  forbidding  any  man,  under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof,  to  take 
corn  out  of  the  realm  to  any  foreign  parts  but  to  the  town  of  Calais, 
and  that  by  security  to  be  made  to  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the 
ports  where  such  corn  shall  be  laded  that  the  same  shall  be  brought  to 
Calais  and  not  elsewhere,  any  command  of  the  king  to  the  contrary 
notwithstanding ;  as  in  consequence  of  the  bad  season  there  is 
increasing  dearness  of  com  in  divers  parts  of  the  realm,  and  the 
king  would  provide  against  the  hurt  and  peril  likely  to  arise 
therefrom   to  himself  and  the  people.  By  K. 

[Fcedera.] 

The  like  to  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland  and  thirteen  other  sheriffs, 
and  to  the  sheriffs  of  London, 

[Ibid.'] 

Membrane  14d. 

Writing  of  John  Trillowe  knight  the  younger,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Baldwin  de  Friville  knight  the  elder,  tenant  of  the 
manor  of  Pynlee  by  Coventre  co.  Warrewyk,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  the  said  manor  of  Pynlee.  Dated  Westminster,  Monday  after 
Midsummer  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  July. 

Indenture  whereby  Baldwin  de  Eryville  knight  gives  to  John 
Trillowe  the  son  knight  a  yearly  rent  of  201.  to  be  taken  during  his 
life  of  the  manor  of  Pynlee  co.  Warrewyk  at  Michaelmas  and  the 
Annunciation  by  even  portions,  (which  manor  by  fine  levied  before 
Sir  Robert  de  Thorp  and  his  fellows,  the  king's  justices,  was  by  the 
said  John  and  Joan  his  wife  granted  to  the  said  Baldwin  and  his 
heirs  for  ever,  by  virtue  whereof  the  said  Baldwin  acknowledges  that 
he  is  seised  of  the  said  manor,)  with  a  condition  that  whensoever 
the  said  manor  shall  be  deraigned  out  of  the  possession  of  the  said 
Baldwin  or  of  his  heirs  by  any  ancient  right  before  the  making  of  these 
presents,  the  said  rent  shall  cease ;  and  for  payment  of  the  said  rent  the 
said  Baldwin  binds  himself  and  his  heirs  together  with  the  said  manor, 
granting  power  to  the  said  John  to  distrain  therein  for  arrears.  Dated 
Thursday  after  St.  Peter  and  St.  Paul  40  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Baldwin,  5  July. 


40  EDWARD  III.  289 


13G6.  Membrane  lid — cont. 

Writing  of  William  Halden,  William  Hornc  and  William  de  Soles, 
being  a  quitclaim  to  Robert  de  Passhele,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the 
manor  of  la  Mote  in  the  full  and  peaceable  seisin  of  the  said  Robert, 
and  of  all  other  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Sussex  sometime  of 
Edmund  de  Passhele  knight.  Witnesses  :  William  de  Echyngeliam 
kniglit,  Andre\\-  Sakevile  knight,  John  Waleys  knight,  Robert  de  Ore, 
W'illiam  de  Ratesforde,  William  Tank,  William  Merbot,  William 
Olmestede,  John  Hemery.  Dated  Echyngehammc,  Saturday  after 
St.  John  ante  Portam  Latinam  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  July. 

Writing  of  Robert  son  of  Robert  de  Passhele,  being  a  quitclaim  to 
Joan  who  was  wife  of  Edmund  de  Passhele  knight,  Reynold  do 
Basynge,  WiUiam  de  Halden,  William  de  Home  and  William  de 
Soles  of  the  manor  of  Palstre  in  the  full  and  peaceable  seisin  of  the 
said  Joan,  and  of  all  other  lands  in  Romene  mar^h  and  elsewhere 
in  Kent  which  were  sometime  of  the  said  Edmund,  save  in  the  manor 
of  Thevegate  ;  all  which,  save  the  said  manor  of  Thevegate,  she 
holds  for  her  life  of  the  demise  of  the  said  Reynold,  William, 
William  and  William  with  reversion  to  them.  Dated  Wightreshamme, 
10  May  40  Edward  III.  Witnesses  :  William  de  Say  knight,  Stephen 
de  Valoyns  knight,  Richard  atte  Lese  knight,  John  Barry,  William 
Tauk,  Roger  Dygge,  William  Tur,  John  Parker,  Thomas  de  Hope. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  July. 

Writing  of  Robert  son  of  Robert  de  Passhele,  being  a  quitclaim 
to  Richard  Charles  of  the  manor  of  Palstre  with  other  lands  in  the 
town  of  Wyghtreshamme  co.  Kent,  held  for  life  by  Joan  who  was 
wife  of  Edmund  de  Passhele  knight  by  lease  of  Reynold  de  Basyng, 
William  de  Haldenne,  William  de  Home  and  William  de  Soles  with 
reversion  to  them,  the  reversion  whereof  they  have  granted  to  the 
said  Richard  and  his  heirs,  by  reason  whereof  the  said  Joan  has  attorned 
tenant  to  the  said  Richard.  Dated  Wyghtreshamme,  Monday  before 
Midsummer  40  Edward  III.  Witnesses :  Thomas  Pot,  John 
Godefray,  Nicholas  Godefray,  John  de  Pesyndenne,  Thomas 
Brounyng,  William  Brounyng,  John  Haukyn.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  July. 

July  6.  William  Maupas  of  Westbradenham   co.   Norffolk  to  William  de 

Westminster.  Humberstan  the  younger.  Recognisance  for  44Z.  payable  by  instal- 
ments ;  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Norffolk. 

Feb.  30.  To  William  de  Shareshull,  Nicholas  de  Beek,  John  de  Swynnerton 

Westminster,  of  Hilton  and  John  de  la  Lee,  guardians  of  the  peace  and  justices  of 
oyer  and  terminer  in  Staffordshire  and  for  certain  other  purposes  in 
their  letters  patent  contained.  Order  to  deliver  from  time  to  time 
before  the  justices  appointed  for  gaol  deUvery  in  Staffordshire  all 
indictments  for  felonies  before  them  made  by  reason  of  their 
appointment,  staying  henceforth  any  proceedings  before  them  for 
that  cause  ;  as  by  advice  of  the  council  it  is  ordered  that  all 
indictments  for  felony  made  before  such  justices  in  whatsoever  county 
of  the  realm  shall  be  sent  before  the  justices  appointed  for  gaol 
deliveries.  By  K.  and  C. 

E  19 


290 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366. 


Membrane  14c? — cont. 


July  IL         Michael   Ude   to    Benedict   Zacarie,    Matthew   Cavason,    Anthony 
Westminster.  Cakeyraynus  and  Martin  his  brother.     Recognisance  for  200  marks, 
to  be  levied,   in  default  of  payment,   of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
CornAvall. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Benedict. 

July  12.         The  abbot  of  Thame  to  Nicholas  de  Staunford  clerk.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  20Z.,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical 
goods  in  Oxfordshire. 


July  20. 

Westminster. 


June  12. 

Westminster. 


July  24. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  \M. 

Indenture  made  between  the  king  and  Adam  de  Seint  Ive  of 
London,  being  a  lease  from  Michaelmas  next  for  two  years  of  the 
exchanges  of  the  king's  and  other  moneys  etc.,  to  be  held  in  all 
suitable  places  the  city  of  York  excepted,  rendering  100/.  a  year  at 
Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  etc.  {as  above,  p.  97). 
Dated  Westminster,   12  July  40  Edward  III.     French. 

[Feeder  a.'] 

Henry  Aunger  of  Ireland  to  Robert  Aunger  chaplain.  Recog- 
nisance for  1 1  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  Ireland. 

To  Gilbert  dc  Umframville  earl  of  Anegoce.  Order  to  send  under 
seal  all  indictments,  records  and  processes  made  before  him  and  his 
fellows,  lately  appointed  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  Lincolnshire, 
together  with  the  king's  commission  to  them  and  all  other  things 
affecting  the  premises,  also  this  writ,  so  that  the  king  shall  have  the 
same  in  the  quinzaine  of  Midsummer;  as  for  particular  causes  laid 
before  the  king  and  council  the  king  would  that  all  such  indict- 
ments, records  and  processes  begun  and  not  yet  determined  shall 
be  determined  before  the  king  and  not  elsewhere. 

To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  stay  altogether  the  holding 
of  all  pleas  or  plaints  before  them  moved  in  the  court  of  London  against 
David  de  Wolloure  clerk  of  chancery,  John  de  Suthcote  his  servant 
and  John  Smyth  labourer,  jointly  or  severally,  telling  John  Broun 
of  London  on  the  king's  behalf  to  sue  before  the  chancellor  if  he  shall 
see  fit ;  as  by  custom  heretofore  used  and  approved  the  clerks  of 
chancery  nor  their  servants  ought  not  against  their  will  to  be  haled  or 
compelled  to  answer,  nor  in  past  time  used  so  to  do,  before  any  justices, 
ministers  of  the  king  or  other  secular  judges  whatsoever  save  the  chan- 
cellor, keepers  or  keeper  of  the  great  seal  for  the  time  being,  touching 
any  pleas,  plaints  or  demands  arising  in  places  where  the  court  {placea) 
may  be  which  do  not  affect  the  king,  pleas  concerning  a  freehold, 
felonies  and  appeals  excepted  ;  and  now  by  complaint  of  the  said 
David  the  king  has  learned  that  the  said  John  de  Suthcote  about 
Midsummer  last  retained  the  said  John  Smyth  to  serve  the  said 
David  where  he  should  appoint,  being  free  and  not  retained  in  any 
man's  service  as  he  affirmed  on  oath  and  as  was  witnessed  by  credible 
persons,  but  that  the  said  John  Broun,  alleging  that  he  retained 
the  said  John  Smyth  with  him  from  Easter  term  last  until  Michaelmas, 
and  that  John  Smyth  so  being  in  his  service  withdrew  therefrom 
before  his  term  without  reasonable  cause,  has  sued  a  plaint  hereupon 


40  EDWARD  III.  291 


13C6.  Membrane  IM — cont. 

in  the  said  court  against  John  (1(>  Ruthcoto,  and  is  tliroatoning  to  sue 
div(Ms  others,  one  against  the  said  J^avid  for  retaining  tlic  said  John 
Sniytli,  another  against  John  Smyth  for  leaving  his  service,  which 
if  it  were  suffered  would  tend  to  impair  the  chancellor's  jurisdiction, 
the  liberty  and  privilege  of  the  clerka  of  chancery  and  the  said  custom, 
which  the  king  would  save  harmless.  By  C. 

[Fcedera.] 

« 

July  30.         Thomas  son  of  Richard  de  Wylughby  knight  to  John  de  Newenham 
Westminster,  canon  of  the  church  of  St.  Mary  Lincoln.     Recognisance  for  100/., 
to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  the 
city  of  London. 

July  12.  To  William  de  Clopton  the    son    knight.      Order,  for    particular 

Westminster,  causes  laid  before  the  king  and  council,  forbidding  him,  under  pain 

of  forfeiture,  to  depart  to  foreign  parts  without   the   king's   special 

licence.  By  K.  and  C. 

The  like  to  Walter  de  Clopton  and  to  Edmund  de  Clopton. 

July  28.  To  the  warden  of  the  Flete  prison.     Order  to  set  free  Richard  de 

Westminster.  Lillebourne  and  Nicholas  Paumes  there  imprisoned.  By  K. 

Membrane  12d. 

July  30.  Thomas    Crispyn    of    Barton    to     Robert    de    Muskham    clerk. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  22  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of 
his  lands  and  chattels  in  Lincolnshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Aug.  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Hertford.  Order  to  stay  the  exigents  against 
Westmmster.  John  Dengayne  knight  and  the  taking  of  his  body  by  the  mainprise 
of  Thomas  Cheyne  and  John  Dunton  of  Cambridgeshire,  bringing 
this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents 
is  returnable  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  that  John  de  Henxteworth 
is  impleading  the  said  John  Dengayne  before  the  said  justices  for 
a  debt  of  40Z.,  and  that  the  said  defendant  is  without  his  knowledge 
put  in  exigents  to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came  not  before  the 
justices  to  answer  concerning  that  debt,  wherefore  he  has  prayed 
to  be  saved  harmless,  as  he  is  ready  to  stand  to  right  touching  the 
premises  ;  and  the  said  Thomas  and  John  Dunton  have  mainperned 
in  cliancery  under  a  pain  of  40Z.  to  have  him  before  the  justices  on  the 
day  above  mentioned  to  answer  as  aforesaid. 

June  10.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to 
Westminster,  admit  Richard  de  Preston  mayor  of  the  town  of  Calais  in  the 
quinzaine  of  Trinity  next  to  his  answer  touching  the  matters  herein- 
after mentioned,  suffering  him  to  be  in  the  same  state  as  before  the 
quinzaine  of  Easter  last  if  he  had  then  appeared  before  them  in 
person  in  that  process,  and  to  cause  justice  to  be  done  to  the  parties, 
the  judgment  then  given  notwithstanding ;  as  lately  upon  informa- 
tion given  by  William  Freman  searcher  of  the  king's  forfeitures  in 
the  port  and  town  of  Calais  that  against  the  will  of  the  said  searcher 
and  his  deputies  the  said  mayor  dearrested  1,509  woolfells  by  them 
arrested  as  forfeit  and  in  their  keeping,  and  that  he  imprisoned 
John  Bisshopeston,  a  deputy  of  the  said  searcher  who  had  in  his  keeping 
divers  memoranda  touching  his  account,  without  whose  presence  and 


292  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366.  Membrane  I2d — cont. 

information  the  searcher  might  not  account,  so  that  he  was  not  able 
to  render  his  account  of  forfeitures  at  the  exchequer,  the  king 
by  writ  under  the  exchequer  seal  commanded  the  said  mayor  to 
have  the  said  Joh^i's  body  before  the  treasurer  and  barons  in  the 
quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  last,  and  to  be  there  to  shew  cause  where- 
fore he  ought  not  to  be  charged  with  the  said  fells  in  discharge 
of  the  said  searcher ;  at  which  day  the  said  mayor,  appearing 
with  the  said  John,  said  that  the  fells  were  by  the  said  John 
unlawfully  arrested  as  was  proved  before  the  said  mayor,  and  that 
they  were  delivered  up  to  the  owners  for  that  reason  and  by  virtue 
of  a  writ  of  the  great  seal  addressed  to  the  said  mayor  and  others, 
and  for  that  he  had  not  that  writ  nor  aught  of  record  witnessing 
the  delivery  of  the  fells,  a  day  was  given  him  at  the  exchequer  in 
the  quinzaine  of  Easter  then  next  to  produce  the  said  writ  and  record, 
on  which  day,  because  the  said  mayor  came  not,  the  treasurer  and 
barons  adjudged  that  the  said  mayor  should  be  charged  towards  the 
king  with  the  fells  aforesaid  in  discharge  of  the  said  searcher  ;  and 
now  the  said  mayor  has  petitioned  the  king  to  save  him  harmless,  as 
by  the  king's  command  he  was  occupied  upon  divers  the  king's  business 
in  the  parts  of  Caleys  so  that  he  might  not  come  to  the  exchequer  on 
the  day  appointed  to  answer  concerning  the  said  fells,  and  is  distrained 
without  fault  of  his  own  ;  and  the  king  is  assured  of  a  certainty  that 
the  said  mayor  was  upon  his  service  as  aforesaid,  and  by  assent  of 
the  council  it  is  agreed  that  he  shall  not  be  a  loser  by  reason  of  his 
absence  at  that  time.  By  C. 

Writing  of  William  Heroun  knight  of  Northumberland  and  Roger 
Heroun  knight  his  son,  being  a  general  release  of  all  plaints,  tres- 
passes and  actions  against  Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Coupeland 
of  the  same  county.  Sir  Thomas  de  Greye,  Sir  Alan  de  Heton, 
Henry  del  Strother,  Alan  del  Strother,  William  de  la  Vale,  William 
de  Nessefeld  and  all  others  who  with  the  said  Joan  sued  against 
the  evildoers  who  slew  the  said  John  or  those  who  harboured  them, 
against  those  appointed  by  the  king's  commission  to  make  inquisi- 
tion touching  his  death  and  who  slew  him,  and  against  others  who 
indicted  the  said  evildoers  or  aided  the  said  Joan's  suit  to  punish 
them,  saving  to  the  said  William  and  Roger,  their  heirs  and  executors, 
all  actions  of  plea  of  land,  debt  and  account.  Dated  Dounham  in 
the  isle  of  Ely,  15  September  40  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  the  said  town 
of  Dounham  the  same  day. 

Sept.  16.  To  the  chancellor  and  treasurer  of  Ireland  for  the  time  being  or 
Westminster,  to  their  representatives.  Order,  for  particular  causes  shewn  before 
the  king  and  council,  to  stay  until  by  advice  of  the  council  further 
order  be  given  them  the  execution  of  the  king's  late  command  to 
summon  before  them  the  justices,  the  king's  Serjeants  and  others  of 
his  council  in  Ireland,  the  guardian  of  the  lands  of  the  heritage  of  the 
heir  of  William  Nongle,  and  others  whom  they  should  see  fit  to 
summon,  to  hear  the  plaint  of  Robert  de  Clynton  knight  and  John 
his  son,  and  the  reasons  to  be  set  forth  as  well  for  the  king  and  the 
said  heir  as  for  them,  take  information  by  inquisition  and  other\vise 
as  they  should  think  best,  and  further  proceed  to  final  debate  of  the 
business,  doing  speedy  justice  to  the  parties  according  to  the  law 
and  custom  of  Ireland  ;    as  lately  the  king  commanded  them  so  to 


40  EJ)WARD  III. 


293 


1360. 


Oct.  1. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  5. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  22. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  I'M — cont. 

do  at  the  suit  of  the  said  Robert  and  John,  alleging  that  they  acquired 
to  them  and  their  heirs  the  manors  of  Novan  and  Ardsallagh  of  the 
said  William  tenant  thereof  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  as  they  asserted, 
that  the  same  were  after  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  that  so  they 
were  unla^  fuUj^  put  out  of  their  freehold  without  an  answer,  by 
colour  of  an  inquisition  taken  at  the  king's  command  before  Richard 
de  Stury  escheator  in  Ireland  and  returned  in  the  chancery  of  Ireland, 
whereby  it  was  found  that  the  said  William  had  no  estate  in  those 
manors  but  in  fee  tail  with  reversion  to  Barnabas  Nongle  the  younger 
his  brother  and  heir,  that  the  said  Barnabas  is  of  the  age  of  18  years, 
and  that  the  said  manors  are  held  by  knight  service  of  the  heir  of 
Roger  de  Mortuo  Mari  tenant  in  chief,  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship, 
and  praying  for  remedy  ;  and  further  the  king  commanded  ""the 
chancellor  and  treasurer  to  cause  the  said  manors  to  be  delivered 
to  the  said  Robert  and  John  by  a  mainpi-ise,  together  with  the  crop 
of  coi'n  and  other  issues  thereof  taken  or  to  be  taken  since  the  said 
William's  death,  any  commission  made  to  other  persons  by  any  the 
king's  ministers  notwithstanding,  if  the  said  Robert  and  John  should 
find  sufficient  mainpernors  who  would  take  upon  them  to  answer  to 
the  king  for  the  value  of  those  manors  the  Avliole  of  that  time  in  case 
it  should  be  determined  that  the  same  ought  to  pertain  to  the  king 
by  reason  of  the  said  wardship  or  otherwise. 

Thomas  son  of  Walter  Faucomberge  to  William  de  Burstall  clerk. 
Recognisance  for  4Z.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  Yorkshire. 

Cancelled  on  'payment. 

Thomas  Hungerford  to  Thomas  Tyrel  knight.     Recognisance  for 
160Z.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Wyltes. 
Cancelled  07i  payment. 

William  de  Kirketon  citizen  of  London  to  Richard  de  Thoren  clerk. 
Recognisance  for  28Z.  payable  by  instalments  ;  to  be  levied  etc.  in 
the  city  of  London. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 


Membrane  \\d. 

Charter  of  William  Hayward  of  Maldon,  giving  with  warranty 
to  Richard  Salyngge  of  London,  John  Porter  chaplain  and  John 
Heyward  brother  of  the  said  William,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  his 
lands  in  the  towns  of  Maldon,  Borham  and  Beniflet.  Witnesses  : 
Thomas  de  Maldon,  Edmund  Dodebroke,  Henry  Tornour,  John  Corne- 
waylle,  John  Lowolde.     Dated  6  October  40  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  William  Heywaid  of  Maldon,  being  a  grant  and  sale 
to  Richard  Salyngge  of  London,  John  Porter  chaplain  and  John 
Heyward  brother  of  the  said  William,  for  a  sum  of  money  in  hand 
paid,  of  all  his  goods  and  chattels  moveable  and  immovable  in  the 
towns  of  Maldon,  Borham  and  Beniflet  or  wheresoever  else. 
Dated  6  October  40  Ed\vard  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing  in  the  chancery  at  London,  7  October. 


294  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366.  Membrane  lid — cont. 

Writing  of  Katherine  atte  Een,  one  of  the  daughters  and  heirs  of 
Robert  atte  Fen,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  Wroth 
the  elder  citizen  of  London  and  to  his  heirs  of  all  the  lands 
in  Totenham  and  Edelmeton  which  he  has  of  the  gift  and  feoffment 
.of  Roger  Bixle  and  Juliana  his  wife  sister  of  the  said  Katherine. 
Witnesses  :  Jordan  de  Elsyng,  Walter  Clay,  William  Salman, 
John  Goldyng,  William  atte  Merssh.  Dated  Totenham,  Wednesday 
after  the  octaves  of  the  Purification  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  London,  5  October, 

Oct.  8.  Robert  Bronston  of  Osprenge  to  Robert  Hughefeld.     Recognisance  for 

Westminster.  40<s.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Kent. 

Oct.  IL         James  Coene  to  Reynold  de  Neuport.     Recognisance  for  8L  payable 
Westminster,  by  instalments  ;    to  be  levied  etc.  in  Kent. 

Oct.  12.  Richard  Stacy  and  Walter  his  brother  to  William  de  Mulsho  dean 

Westminster,  of  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Martin  le  Grand  London.  Joint  and 
several  recognisance  for  88Z.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Essex. 

Oct.  14.  Nicholas  Clerc  of  Bishops  Lavyngton  co.  Wiltes  to  John  Ruycote 

Westminster,  of  Oxfordshire.  Recognisance  for  300^.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in 
Oxfordshire. 

Oct.  16.  Thomas  Fitly ng  to  Robert  de  Marny  knight.     Recognisance  for 

Westminster.  16/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Essex. 

Charter  of  John  de  Gurneye  of  Somersete  knight,  giving  with 
warranty  to  Master  Richard  de  la  Barre,  Master  Richard  Chaundos, 
Adam  Esegar  and  Baldwin  de  Whiteneye  clerks,  their  heirs  or 
assigns,  the  manors  of  Inglescombe,  Odwode  and  Knolle  co.  Somerset 
and  Mammehede  co.  Devon,  all  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Hereford, 
Tatynton  and  Weston  co.  Hereford,  and  all  other  lands,  rents  and 
services  in  that  county  ;  and  appointing  John  de  la  Broke  and 
Nicholas  de  Eye  his  attorneys  to  deliver  seisin  of  the  premises. 
Witnesses  :  John  de  Burleye,  John  de  Eylesford  knights,  John  Gour, 
Richard  de  la  Nasshe,  Roger  Partrich.  Dated  Hereford,  Thursday 
after  St.  Edward  King  and  Confessor  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  16  October. 

Oct.  20.  Thomas  Westeton  of  Petresfeld  and  John  Carpenter  of  Petresfeld 

Westminster,  to  Arnald  de  Pynkeny,  clerk.  Joint  and  several  recognisance  for 
100  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and 
chattels  in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 

Writing  of  Alice  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Ultyng,  being  a  quitclaim 
to  Thomas  de  Maundeville  knight,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  Thomas  their 
son  and  Thomas  de  Benyngton,  and  to  the  heirs  of  the  said  Thomas  de 
Maundeville  the  father,  of  the  lands,  rents  and  services  called  the 
Holehalle  lying  in  the  towns  of  Fairestede,  Notle,  Terlyng,  Wytham 
and  Falkburne.     Dated  Westminster,  20  October  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  22  October. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Fauconberg,  son  and  heir  of  Walter  de 
Fauconberg  sometime  lord  of  Skelton  in  Clyveland,  being  a  quitclaim 


40  EDWARD  III.  295 


13G0.  Membrane  lid — cont. 

with  warranty  to  Sir  Robert  de  Alta  Rypa  and  Sir  Thomas  Soincr 
chaphxhis,  during  tlie  hfe  of  Dame  Isabel  de  Fauconberg,  of  the  manors 
of  Rise  and  Wythernwyk  in  Holdornesse  with  the  advowson  of  the 
church  and  chantry  of  Rise  and  all  manner  of  reversions  as  they  fall 
in,  which  the  said  Robert  and  Thomas  had  for  her  life  of  the  gift  and 
feoffment  of  the  said  Isabel.  AVitnesses  :  Thomas  de  Thwcng  parson 
of  Lytlium,  Sir  Tliomas  de  Sutton,  Sir  William  de  Sancto  Quintino 
knights,  Roger  de  Fulthoi'p,  John  de  MaUeby,  Robert  de  Wythernwyk, 
Robert  Lorymer.  Dated  Skelton  in  Clyveland,  Tuesday  after  the 
Nativity  of  the  Virgin  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acloiowledgment,  25  October. 

Membrane  Idd. 

^Vriting  of  Thomas  Fauconberg,  son  and  heir  of  Sir  Walter  de 
Fauconberg  sometime  lord  of  Skelton  in  Clyveland,  giving  to  Dame 
Isabel  de  Fauconberg,  her  heirs  and  assigns,  Robert  son  of  Juliana 
his  ncif  of  Hornscbek  dwelliug  in  Skaresburg  with  his  goods  and 
chattels  wherever  found  and  all  that  goes  with  him,  granting  and 
confirming  to  her  for  life  with  warranty  her  estate  in  the  manors  of 
Ryse  in  Holdernesse,  Wythornwyk  and  Estbrun  with  the  advowson 
of  the  church  and  chantry  of  Ryse,  and  in  the  third  part  of  the  manors 
of  Skelton  and  Mersk  in  Clyveland  which  she  holds  in  dower  by 
assignment  made  in  chancery  and  by  livery  of  the  escheator,  with 
release  of  all  actions  and  plaints  against  her  by  reason  of  waste  or 
trespass  in  the  said  manors  which  she  holds  or  had  in  wardship  by 
reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  Thomas.  Witnesses  :  Sir  John 
Bigott,  Sir  William  de  Sancto  Quintino  knights,  Roger  de  Fulthorp, 
John  de  Malteby,  William  de  Lackenby.  Dated  Skelton,  Friday 
after  the  Nativity  of  the  Virgin  1366. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  25  October. 

Oct.  24.  John  de  Moubray  of  Axiholme  to  brother  William  de  Monkelane 

Westminster,  of  the  order  of  St.  Augustine,  Nicholas  de  Neuton  clerk,  Thomas  de 
Walmesford  clerk  and  Stephen  atte  Rothe  clerk  executors  of 
Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford  and  Essex.  Recognisance  for 
800Z.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Lincolnshire. 

Cancelled  on  'payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  William  de  Monkelane 
and  Stephen. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  John  de  Moubray  lord  of  Axiholme 
of  the  one  part  and  brother  William  de  Monkelane  of  the  order  of 
St.  Austyn,  Nicholas  de  Neuton  clerk,  Thomas  de  Walmesford  clerk 
and  Stephen  atte  Rothe  clerk  executors  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun 
earl  of  Hereford  and  Essex  of  the  other  part,  being  a  defeasance  of 
the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon  condition  that  Lawrence  Hauberk, 
John  Tours  and  William  de  Bourgh  or  one  of  them  pay  to  the  said 
executors  in  the  church  of  St.  Paul  London  100/.  at  Easter  next, 
lOOZ.  at  Michaelmas  following,  50  marks  at  Easter  following,  50  marks 
at  Michaelmas  following  and  so  for  two  more  years  100  marks  a 
year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  until  400L  be 
fully  paid.     Dated  London,  26   October  40  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acluiowledgment  by  the  said  brother  William 
and  Nicholas,  27  October. 


296  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1366.  Membrane  lOdI — cxmt. 

Writing  of  Margaret  daughter  and  heir  of  John  Pykard  of  York 
merchant,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Thomas  de  Ingelby 
knight  and  Katherine  his  wife,  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said 
Thomas,  of  a  messuage  and  appurtenances  by  Dyvelynstanes  in 
Northstrete  York  which  her  said  father  had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment 
of  John  Sleght  parson  of  Laisyngby.  Dated  London,  Saturday  after 
the  Translation  of  St.  Thomas  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  24  October. 

Oct.  26.  Robert  de  Woubourn  to  John  de  Repynghale.     Recognisance  for 

Westminster.  40L,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Oxfordshire. 

Cancelled  on  'payment. 

Oct.  28.  Thomas  de  Garwynton  of  Kent  to  John  Beverlee.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  100  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Kent. 

Oct.  28.  John  de  Grymesby  to  Richard  de  Ravenser  clerk  and  William 

Westminster.  Hauley  the  younger.  Recognisance  for  40  marks,  to  be  levied  etc. 
in  Lincolnshire. 

Oct.  29.  John  abbot  of  Whallay,  for  himself  and  the  convent,  to  David  de 

Westminster.  Wollore  clerk  and  Thomas  de  Neuby  clerk.  Recognisance  for  40L, 
to  be  levied  etc.  of  their  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods 
in  Lancashire. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  David. 

Oct.  3L  William    de    Skipwyth    knight,    Roger    de   Fulthorp,    William    de 

Westminster.  Haulay  the  younger  and  William  de  Nessefeld  to  Richard  Fraunceys, 

John  Ussher,  Peter  de  Stodeye  and  Richard  Parys.     Recognisance 

for  350  marks  payable  by  instalments  ;   to  be  levied  etc.  of  their  lajids 

and  chattels  in  Lincolnshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Richard  Fraunceys 
and  John  Ussher. 

Oct.  31.  John  de   Stokwyth  of  Scardeburgh  to  Thomas  de  Heslarton  of 

Westminster.  Louthorp  and  John  de  Sutton.  Recognisance  for  1001.,  to  be 
levied  etc.  in  Yorkshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Thomas  before 
John  de  Botheby  a  clerk  of  chancery  by  virtue  of  the  king''s  writ  of  dedimus 
potestatem  which  is  on  the  files  for  the  ^2nd  year. 

Nov.  3.  Hugh    le    Yonge    clerk,    David    de    Hanemere    and    Edmund    de 

Westminster.  Burghton  to  John  de  Chichestre  citizen  of  London.     Recognisance 
for  40L,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Salop. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Nov.  4.  Henry    le    Walssh    of    Aghton    to    Thomas    de    Thelwall    clerk. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  2  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Lancashire, 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


40  EDWARD  III.  297 


13()6.  Membrane  lOd — cont. 

Oct.  8.  Walter  de  Salic  of  Hoitou  to  John  de  Brampton  clerk.     Uecog- 

Wostminster.  nisaucc  for  G  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Bukinghamshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Membrane  9d. 

Writing  of  Walter,  son  and  heir  of  Walter  de  Chesthunte  knight 
{militis),  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Richard  Wj^deville,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  of  the  third  part  of  the  manors  of  Stokebruer  and  Ald- 
ryngton  co.  Norhampton  with  the  advowsons  of  Stokebruer  and 
Aldryngton,  and  of  a  yearly  rent  of  10/.  issuing  from  the  third 
part  aforesaid.  W^itnesses :  Nicholas  Grene,  Nicholas  Thenford, 
Nicholas  Cogenho,  John  Olneye,  John  Caruail.  Dated  Grafton  by 
Yerdele  Cobyoun  co.  Norhampton,  Thursday  after  St.  Simon  and 
St.  Jude  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  30  October. 

Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  made  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster 
on  Saturday  14  May  36  Edward  III  by  Godfrey  Folejaumbe  knight 
of  Derbyshire,  Simon  Simeon  of  Lincohashire,  Thomas  de  Stathum 
and  Haukin  de  Tildesle  of  Lancashire,  for  the  good  behaviour  of 
William  son  of  Robert  de  Radeclif  of  Lancashire,  arrested  and 
detained  in  the  Tower  of  London  for  certain  misprisions,  trespasses 
and  commotions  against  the  king  and  people  laid  against  him,  that 
he  will  by  himself,  his  friends  or  any  of  his  kindred  or  affinity  cause 
or  procure  no  hurt  or  grievance  openly  or  secretly  to  any  of  the 
people,  nor  any  commotion  or  excess  whereby  the  peace  might  be 
broken  or  the  people  put  in  fear,  and  in  case  he  shall  offend  against 
the  form  of  this  mainprise,  to  have  his  body  upon  reasonable 
warning  ^before  the  king  or  the  justices  at  his  command  to  stand  to 
right  touching  the  things  laid  against  him  ;  and  for  greater  security 
the  said  William  bound  himself  to  the  king  in  500Z.,  to  be  levied  to  the 
king's  use  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  England  by  process  of  the 
king's  court  if  he  should  contravene  the  form  of  that  mainprise,  by 
reason  whereof  he  was  set  free  from  prison.  And  after,  on  finding 
by  a  record  of  Godfrey  Folejaumbe  and  his  fellows  justices  of  oyer 
and  terminer  in  Lancashire,  the  tenor  whereof  the  king  caused  to  come 
into  chancery,  that  the  said  William  was  before  them  indicted  and 
convicted  of  divers  trespasses,  the  king  by  divers  writs  commanded 
every  of  the  said  mainpernors  to  have  his  body  before  the  king  in 
the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  in  the  40th  year  of  his  reign  to  answer 
concerning  the  500Z.  aforesaid  ;  at  which  day  the  said  mainpernors 
came  before  the  king  in  chancery  with  his  body  there  to  deliver  it, 
and  thereupon  came  in  chancery  John  sou  of  John  de  Radclif,  John 
le  Botiller  of  Merton,  William  de  Mondeslegh  and  Robert  de  Blakbourne 
and  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  500L  for  the  said  William  to  have 
his  body  in  chancery  from  day  to  day  to  answer  to  the  king,  and 
further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court  should  determine  in  the 
premises  ;  therefore  the  said  Godfrey,  Simon,  Thomas  and  Haukin 
are  discharged  of  their  mainprise.  Afterwards  on  30  October  following 
the  said  William  appeared  before  the  council,  and  because  the  council 
would  take  fuller  information  touching  the  business,  a  day  was  given 
him  in  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  following  to  do  and  receive  what  should 
then  be  determined  ;  a  id  hereupon  John  de  Radclif  of  Chaderton, 
Robert  de  Radclif,  Richard  de  Herwelam  and  Roger  de  Medocroft  of 


298  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


J 


1366.  Membrane  ^d — cont. 

Lancashire  mainperned,  taking  upon  them  to  have  his  body  before 
the  king  and  council  at  Westminster  on  the  day  named  to  do  and 
receive  etc.,  wherefore  the  said  John  son  of  John  de  Radechf, 
John  le  Botiller,  WilHam  de  Mondeslegh  and  Robert  de  Blakebourne 
are  discharged  of  their  mainprise. 

Oct.  20.  To  Alan  de  Buckeshull  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London  or  to 

Westminster,  his  lieutenant.     Order  to  set  free  from  the  prison  of  the  said  Tower 

Thomas  '  of  the  Bataille  '  lately  taken  at  the  king's  command  and 

there  imprisoned.  By  K.  and  C. 

To  the  said  constable  or  his  lieutenant.  Order  to  keep  in  safe  custody 
in  the  said  prison  until  further  order  William  Tauk,  whom  for 
particular  causes  the  king  has  caused  to  be  delivered  by  the  council 
to  the  said  constable.  By  K.  and  C. 

Writing  of  Simon  son  of  Walter  de  Wodeham  of  Surrey,  being  a 
quitclaim  w'lih.  ^\•arranty  to  Nicholas  de  Lovayne  knight  and  Margaret 
his  wife,  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  Nicholas,  of  the  manors  of 
Staunton  St.  John,  Barton,  Lageham  and  Muryden  and  all  other 
lands  in  Oxfordshire  and  Surrey  A\hich  ^^■ere  of  Roger  de  Sancto 
Johanne  of  Lageham  knight,  and  of  Katherine  who  was  wife  of 
John  de  Sancto  Johanne  of  Lageham  knight  father  of  the  said  Roger. 
Dated  Lageham  5  November  40  Edward  III. 

Meviorandum  of  acknowledgment,  8  November. 

Nov.   17.         Aymer  de  Atheles  knight  to  Henry  del  Strother.     Recognisance  for 
Westminster.  200  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of    his    lands  and 
chattels  in  Northumberland. 

Writing  of  Bartholomew  Blaket,  giving  to  John  Curteys  of 
Wymyngton  and  Albred^C  his  wife  for  their  lives  a  yearly  rent  of 
10  marks  to  be  taken  at  Michaelmas  of  all  the  lands  of  the  said 
Bartholomew  in  Garston,  Oxeye  Walrond,  Caysho  and  Abbots 
Langeleye  co.  Hertford,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears ;  also 
granting  to  the  said  John  and  Albreda  and  to  their  executors  that, 
if  both  die  within  eight  years  after  the  date  of  these  presents,  the 
executors  of  the  longer  liver  shall  have  and  take  the  same  until  the 
term  of  eight  years  be  accomplished,  with,  like  power  to  distrain. 
Dated  London,  Friday  the  feast  of  St.  Edmund  the  King 
40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  November. 

Nov.  20.         John   Whitloc    of   Tytenangre   to   the   prior   and   convent   of   St. 
Westminster.  Bartholomew   Smythefeld   London.     Recognisance   for    146/.    65.,    to 
be    levied,    in    defai^lt    of    payment,    of   his    lands    and  chattels    in 
Hertfordshire. 

Membrane  M. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Wytherle  master  of  the  chapel  of  Corpus 
Christi  by  Candelwykstrete  London,  Walter  de  Multon  and  Richard 
de  Sug\^'orth  chaplains,  granting  to  Simon  son  of  Walter  de  Wodeham 
for  his  life  a  yearly  rent  of  5  marks  to   be  taken   at   Easter  and 


. 


40  EDWARD  III.  299 


18(30.  Membrane  Sd — cont. 

Michxaclm.as  by  even  portions  of  a  nianso  call(>d  tlio  (Joldherborgh 
and  all  olluT  their  tcMionu'iits  uj)on  the  '  Hay  wharf '  in  tlu;  parish  of 
Allhallows  the  Groat  London,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears. 
Dated  London,  4  November  40  Edward  ITL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Robert  de 
Wytherle,  8  November. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Nicholas  de  Lovaync  knight  of  the 
first  part,  Simon  son  of  Walter  de  Wodeham  of  the  second  part,  and 
Robert  de  Wytherle  master  of  the  chapel  of  Corpus  Christi  by 
Candelw  ikstrete  London,  Walter  de  Multon  and  Richard  de  Sugworth 
chaplains  of  the  third  part,  whereby  the  said  Simon  covenants  to  sue 
at  the  cost  of  Sir  Nicholas  and  his  heirs,  whensoever  he  shall  by  them 
or  their  counsel  be  warned,  to  recover  all  the  lands  which  are  or  were 
of  the  heritage  of  Seint  John  of  Lageham  and  are  out  of  the  possession 
of  Sir  Nicholas  in  whose  hands  soever  they  may  be,  not  making  a 
release  or  confirmation  to  any  man  of  any  parcel  thereof  without  the 
assent  of  Sir  Nicholas  or  his  heirs,  and  so  soon  as  he  shall  have 
recovered  any  parcel  thereof,  immediately  to  make  a  feoffment  in 
fee  simple  with  warranty  thereof  to  Sir  Nicholas,  his  heirs  or  other 
persons  to  be  by  them  or  their  counsel  nominated,  and  moreover  to 
cause  Sir  Nicholas  or  his  heirs  to  have  true  letters  of  some  bishop, 
and  notarial  instruments  witnessing  that  the  said  Simon's  mother 
was  a  lawful  daughter  {fille  midere)  begotten  between  Thomas  de 
Seint  John  and  his  wife  ;  and  defeasance  of  a  rent  granted  to  the 
said  Simon  for  life  by  the  said  master  and  chaplains  [as  above),  in 
case  he  shall  not  sue  as  aforesaid  upon  reasonable  warning,  shall 
make  release  or  confirmation  of  any  parcel  of  the  said  heritage 
without  the  assent  of  Sir  Nicholas,  his  heirs  or  their  counsel,  shall 
fail  so  to  enfeoff  Sir  Nicholas,  his  heirs  or  others  at  their  nomination 
or  the  nomination  of  their  counsel  of  all  lands  by  him  recovered  as 
aforesaid,  or  to  cause  them  to  have  the  said  letters  and  instruments, 
whereby  Sir  Nicholas,  Margaret  his  wife,  his  heirs  or  any  of  them 
shall  by  any  suit  lose  any  parcel  of  the  said  heritage  of  Seint  John 
whereof  they  are  then  tenants.  Dated  Lageham,  6  November 
40  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  8  November- 


Oct.  25.  To  the  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Beverley.  Order,  under  pain  of  for- 
Westminster.  f  eiture,  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  that  the  vintners  and  taverners 
of  the  said  town  shall,  under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof,  sell  their  wines 
in  gross  and  at  retail  for  moderate  and  not  for  excessive  gain,  having 
regard  to  the  price  of  wines  sold  in  the  neighbouring  ports,  namely  the 
gallon  of  wine  for  the  price  at  which  it  is  sold  in  the  town  of  Kyngeston 
upon  Hull  or  at  most  one  halfpenny  more,  so  chastising  those  found 
at  fault  in  this  behalf  after  the  proclamation  that  the  king  may  not 
need  to  inflict  upon  them  a  more  grievous  punishment ;  as  the  king 
is  informed  that  the  said  vintners  and  taverners,  seeking  an  excessive 
gain,  are  publicly  selling  the  gallon  of  wine  for  \2d.,  although  sold  at 
Kyngeston  upon  Hull  six  leagues  distant  at  not  more  than  M.,  in 
contempt  of  the  king  and  contrary  to  the  ordinance.  By  C. 

[Feeder  a. 1 


300 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366.  Membrane  8d — cont. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Aldoun  knight  of  Kent,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  John  Do  vy  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  the  manors  of  Dytton,  Siffleton  and  Brampton  in  the  said 
county  with  their  appurtenances  as  in  houses,  buildings,  lands,  woods, 
meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  commons,  hays,  hedges,  ditches,  mills, 
waters,  fishponds,  dovecots,  wards,  marriages,  homages,  reliefs, 
heriots,  escheats,  suits  of  court,  rents  and  services  of  free  men  and 
neifs,  and  all  other  rights,  liberties,  advantages  and  lordships,  all 
which  the  said  John  now  has  to  farm  by  indenture  made  between  the 
said  Thomas  and  the  said  John  and  Robert  de  Corby  deceased. 
Witnesses  :  William  Essex,  Thomas  Mounteneye,  John  de  Birlyngham, 
Walter  Blankeneye,  Edmund  Brundissh,  William  Boyville  clerk. 
Dated  Westchepe  ward  London,  Thursday  before  St.  Lucy 
39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  12  November  this  year. 

Nov.   19.         Bartholomew  Blaket  to  John  Curtays.     Recognisance  for  100  marks, 
Westminster,  to  be  levied,   in  default  of  payment,   of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Hertfordshire. 


Nov.  6. 

Westminster. 


Nov.  23. 

Westminster. 


To  S.  archbishop  of  Canterbury.  Order  and  request  to  grant  to 
Walter  son  of  Walter  Whithors*  clerk  such  yearly  pension  as  shall 
befit  the  giver  and  bind  the  receiver  to  him,  making  him  letters 
patent  thereupon  under  seal,  and  writing  again  by  the  bearer  what 
he  will  do  at  this  request ;  as  by  reason  of  his  new  creation  the  arch- 
bishop is  bound  in  such  pension  to  one  of  the  king's  clerks  at  the 
king's  nomination  until  provision  be  made  him  of  a  benefice  by  the 
archbishop,  and  the  king  has  nominated  the  said  Walter  whose 
advancement  he  has  at  heart.  By  p.s.  [27184.] 

Gilbert  de  Stanford  knight  and  Thomas  Belhous  of  Alvethele  to 
Helmyngus  Leget.  Recognisance  for  80Z.,  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Essex. 

Membrane  Id. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Daldoun  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Robert  de  Beleknappe  and  Amy  his  wife,  the  heirs  and  assigns 
of  the  said  Robert,  of  all  the  lands,  rents,  reversions,  farms  and 
services  in  Wy,  Bocton  Alulphi  and  Godmersham  which  aforetime  were 
of  Stephen  de  Etyngbroke  or  of  John  de  Etyngbroke.  Dated  London, 
10  November  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  23  November. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Daldoun  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  Robert  de  Beleknappe  and  Amy  his  wife,  the  heirs  and 
assigns  of  the  said  Robert,  of  all  the  lands,  rents,  reversions,  farms 
and  services  in  Wy,  Godmersham,  Thremworthe  and  Grundale  which 
were  of  Thomas  Daldoun  father  of  the  said  Thomas,  and  in  all  those 
now  or  ever  heretofore  held  in  dower  of  his  heritage  by  Maud  who 
was  wife  of  the  said  Thomas  the  father  in  the  said  towns,  in  Bocton 
Alulphi,  Ditton,  Cranebroke  and  elsewhere  in  Kent.  Dated  London, 
10  November  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  23  November. 

*  In  the  warrant  Watekyn  son  of  Walter  Wliythors. 


40  EDWARD  III.  301 


13C6.  Membrane  Id — cont. 

Writing  of  Sir  Thomas  Daldoun,  reciting  a  gift  by  him  formerly 
made  to  Robert  de  Boleknappe  and  Amy  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs 
and  assigns  of  the  said  Robert  of  all  the  lands,  rents,  reversions,  farms 
and  services  in  Wy,  Godmersham,  Thremworth  and  Grundale  which 
were  of  Sir  Thomas  Daldoun  his  father,  and  all  which  Maud  who  was 
wife  of  Tliomas  the  fatlier  then  or  formerly  held  in  dower  of  the 
heritage  of  Thomas  the  son  in  the  said  towns,  in  Ditton,  Cranebroke 
and  elsewhere  in  Kent,  with  a  condition  that  if  Sir  Thomas  the  son 
should  not  pay  to  the  said  Robert  and  Amy  40Z.  at  Michaelmas  last 
in  the  cliurch  of  Wy  (which  sum  Sir  Thomas  received  of  the  said 
Robert  one  whole  year  before),  or  should  without  the  assent  of  the 
said  Robert  make  any  lease  or  demise  of  land  or  rent,  the  said  Robert 
and  Amy  and  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  Robert  should  have 
an  estate  for  ever  of  the  premises,  otherwise  their  estate  should  cease 
and  the  said  Thomas  might  again  enter  the  same  ;  that  after  seisin 
delivered  to  the  said  Robert  and  Amy,  the  said  Thomas  by  their 
sufferance  took  all  profits  of  the  premises  until  Michaelmas  last, 
without  that  that  the  said  Robert  and  Amy  had  any  profit ;  that 
neither  Sir  Thomas  nor  any  on  his  belialf  on  Michaelmas  day  nor 
after  paid  nor  offered  the  said  sum  nor  any  penny  thereof  to  the 
said  Robert  or  Amy  nor  to  any  other  in  their  name  in  the  said  church 
nor  elsewhere  ;  that  between  the  date  of  the  said  feoffment  and 
Michaelmas  Sir  Thomas  the  son  without  the  said  Robert's  assent  made 
divers  feoffments,  leases  and  grants  as  well  of  his  manor  of  Bocton 
as  of  other  lands,  whereby  an  estate  for  ever  was  vested  in  the  said 
Robert  and  Amy  as  aforesaid  ;  that  peaceably  to  affirm  such  their 
estate  and  to  avoid  debate  Sir  Thomas  by  his  deed  enrolled  in 
chancery  has  made  them  a  release  with  warranty  of  the  premises, 
whereupon  the  said  Robert  has  paid  him  other  40?.,  so  on  his  part 
performing  more  than  he  was  bound  to  do  or  than  good  faith,  con- 
science and  right  would  demand,  and  furthermore  the  said  Robert 
has  promised  Sir  Thomas  that,  if  on  All  Saints  day  next  he  shall  pay 
at  the  said  church  of  Wy  the  801.  received  as  aforesaid,  he  the  said 
Robert  will  enfeoff  Sir  Thomas  of  all  the  premises  to  him  and  his  heirs, 
with  condition  that  if  Sir  Thomas  without  his  assent  shall  make  a 
demise  thereof,  or  of  any  parcel  thereof,  in  fee  or  for  a  term  of  life 
or  of  years,  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  said  Robert  or  his  heirs  again  to 
enter  and  hold  to  them,  their  heirs  or  assigns,  so  much  as  shall  so  be 
demised  ;  and  for  that  the  houses  upon  the  tenement  called  Aldoun 
are  weak  and  ruinous  and,  it  is  thought,  might  fall  down  before  the 
said  feast,  Sir  Thomas  the  son  covenants  that  the  said  Robert  and 
Amy  may  take  down  all  the  said  houses  and  carry  them  whither  they 
will  doing  their  pleasure  therewith  without  being  troubled  at  any 
time,  that  if  he  do  not  pay  the  said  801.  or  cause  the  same  to  be  paid 
at  the  said  feast,  he  nor  his  heirs  shall  never  impeach  the  said  Robert 
or  Amy  nor  the  heirs  or  assigns  of  the  said  Robert  of  the  premises, 
nor  claim  another  day  of  payment.  Be  it  known  that  it  is  not  the 
intent  of  Sir  Thomas  nor  of  the  said  Robert  or  Amy  that  Sir  Thomas 
shall  ever  have  aught  of  the  lands,  rents  or  services  in  Wy,  Bocton 
Alulphi  or  Godmersham  sometime  of  Stephen  de  Etyngbroke  though 
the  said  sum  be  paid  as  aforesaid,  so  that  they  be  for  ever  debarred 
therefrom,  inasmuch  as  the  said  Robert  has  made  full  recompense 
for  the  same,  and  Sir  Thomas  has  by  two  writings  made  full  release 
thereof  to  the  said  Robert  and  Amy,  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the 
said  Robert.     Dated  London,  11  November  40  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  23  November. 


302  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366.  Membrane  Id — cont. 

Dec.  L  Thomas  Devenissh,  Michael  Skillyng  and  WilUam  de  Hoghton  to 

Westminster.  Master  Hugh  Pelegrini  treasurer  of  tlie  church  of  Lychfeld    and  to 

Reymund   Pelegrini   clerk.     Joint   and   several  recognisance  for   101. 

payable  by  instalments  ;    to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their 

lands  and  chattels  in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Reymund. 

Writing  of  John  Dymmok  knight,  son  of  Sir  John  Dymmok  knight 
lord  of  Skrevelby,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Baldwin  de  Freville  knight, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Middelton.  Dated  Westminster, 
Thursday  after  St.  Andrew  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  December. 

Dec.  3.  Robert  Neel  of  Kent  to  Thomas  Neylond  parson  of  Merstham 

Westminster,  co.    Surrey.     Recognisance    for    500Z.,    to    be    levied,    in    default    of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Kent. 

Dec.  3.  Thomas  Nejdond  parson  of  Merstham  co.  Surrey  to  Robert  Neel 

Westminster,  of  Kent.     Recognisance  for  500L,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Surrey. 

Dec.  5.  John  de  Burgh crssh  knight  to  Ralph  de  Restwold.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  500  marks  payable  by  instalmejits  ;    to  be  levied  etc.  in  Essex. 

Me 31  BRA NE  6d. 

Indenture  made  between  the  prior  and  convent  of  Dunstaple 
lords  of  the  town  of  Dunstaple  of  the  one  part  and  John  Averey, 
Thomas  Nicolas,  John  de  Pegelton,  Richard  Albon,  John  de 
Wappenham,  William  Wilshamstede,  John  Iremongere,  Henry  Nicolas, 
John  Barbour,  John  Fisshere  '  cornmongere,'  William  Rammeseye, 
William  Neal,  John  Hent,  William  Catour,  Thomas  de  Lynleye,  William 
Hobbes,  Simon  Gilmyn,  Hugh  le  Ferour,  John  Knyght  and  John 
Wliitawere  burgesses  and  all  the  commonalty  of  the  said  town  of  the 
other  part,  reciting  that  lately  debate  arose  between  the  said  prior 
and  convent  and  the  said  burgesses  and  commonalty  touching  a  claim 
made  by  the  burgesses  and  commonalty  to  divers  customs,  liberties 
and  usages,  whereupon  the  prior  made  complaint  and  suit  to  the  king's 
council  by  petition  touching  wrongs  and  grievances  committed 
against  himself  and  his  church,  that  at  length  by  order  of  the  council 
the  parties  appeared  before  the  council  at  Westminster  and  submitted 
themselves  to  the  judgment  and  order  of  the  council,  that  after 
hearing  the  plaint  and  the  grievances  of  the  prior  with  the  answers  and 
claims  of  the  burgesses  and  commonalty,  and  after  due  deliberation, 
a  decree  and  order  was  by  the  council  made,  which  plaint  and 
grievances,  answers,  claims  and  order  are  contained  in  the  following 
articles  : 

1.  The  prior  of  Dunstaple  says  that  whereas  the  prior  is  lord 
of  the  said  town,  and  has  there  view  of  frankpledge  once  a  year 
on  the  feast  of  St.  Barnabas,  and  amends  of  the  assize  of  bread 
and  ale,  the  burgesses  claim  to  assess  the  assize  of  ale  once  at  the 
next  court  of  the  prior  held  after  Michaelmas  for  the  whole  year 
to  come,  which  seems  unreasonable  for  that  the  price  of  malt 
often  varies  during  the  year,  and  the  said  assize  ought  to  vary 
and  be  assessed  accordingly.  To  this  the  burgesses  answer  that 
every  year  at  the  said  view  of  frankpledge  are  chosen  eight  ale 
wardens  {conservatores  cervisie)  in  lieu  of  ale  tasters,  who  shall 


40  EDWARD  III.  303 


1366*  Membrane  M — cont. 

swear  tliat  to  the  best  of  tlieir  power  the  assize  of  ale  shall  be  kept 
during  tliat  year  aecordiiig  to  the  ])riee  of  malt  and  the  custom 
of  the  town,  and  the  said  \\ardens  will  come  when  need  be  of  their 
free  will  to  the  prior's  court,  for  they  are  not  bound  to  make 
suit  there,  and  the  assize  will  be  varied  by  them  and  the  prior's 
steward.  The  council,  after  hearing  reasons  on  either  side, 
ordered  and  decreed  that  the  prior's  ministers  make  inquisition 
every  quinzaine  by  the  burgesses  or  others  in  court  concerning 
the  price  of  malt  and  of  corn,  and  that  the  assize  be  published 
according  to  the  sale  thereof,  which  assize  the  said  wardens 
shall  upon  their  oath  cause  to  be  kept,  and  offenders  shall  be 
punished  at  the  next  view  of  frankpledge  and  affeered  by  their 
peers  according  to  the  amount  of  the  fault,  saving  their  coun- 
tenance, and  that  for  every  fault. 

2.  The  prior  says  that  whereas  the  dozeners  ought  to  present 
defaults  of  brewers  whenever  they  occur  throughout  the  year, 
they  will  not  so  do,  nor  suffer  any  to  be  amerced  for  every  fault 
according  to  the  amount  of  the  fault,  but  claim  that  amercements 
for  all  trespasses  be  but  M.  as  if  for  one  trespass,  when  by  the 
common  law  a  man  should  be  amerced  for  every  fault  according 
to  the  amount  thereof.  The  bui'gesses  answer  that  they  never 
used  to  present  all  defaults  one  by  one  throughout  the  year,  nor 
is  it  commonly  done  elsewhere,  especially  as  the  view  of  frank- 
pledge is  held  but  once  a  year  and  there  are  there  so  many 
brewers,  men  and  women,  namely  a  hundred  and  more,  but  only  to 
present  that  they  have  been  common  brewers  since  the  last  view 
of  frankpledge  and  have  broken  the  assize,  and  this  by  the  ale 
wardens  only,  and  thence  arises  but  one  amercement ;  as  to  which 
amercement  they  say  that  Richard  predecessor  of  the  prior  and 
the  convent  of  Dunstaple  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  and 
by  their  A^riting  granted  to  the  commons  of  the  said  town  that 
they  should  not  be  amerced  in  the  prior's  court  but  at  4c/.,  and 
by  virtue  thereof  they  have  been  used  to  be  there  amerced  at 
4fi.  and  no  more,  producing  one  part  of  the  fine  and  the  said 
writing.  Ordered,  after  viewing  the  fine  and  writing,  whereby 
the  said  late  prior  and  the  convent  gi'anted  the  burgesses  that 
in  all  pleas  and  plaints  save  pleas  of  the  crown  which  might  be 
held  in  the  prior's  court  between  the  prior  and  the  burgesses 
and  their  heirs  every  of  them  should  for  4(/.  be  quit  of  mercies 
wherein  he  should  fall,  that  all  articles  of  the  view  of  frankpledge 
are  pleas  of  the  crown,  and  amercements  thereof  arising  are  not 
included  in  the  grant  but  expressly  excepted,  wherefore  the  dozeners 
with  the  ale  wardens  shall  at  every  view  of  frankpledge  present 
all  defaults  of  brewers  as  often  as  they  brew,  and  every  of  them 
for  every  fault  shall  be  amerced  and  affeered  according  to  the 
amount  thereof. 

3.  The  prior  says  that  the  burgesses  claim  that  in  that  town 
ale  tasters  make  no  tasting  or  trial  of  ale.  The  burgesses  answer 
that  the  ale  wardens  ought  to  taste  the  same  whenever  they 
please  and  whenever  a  complaint  comes  to  their  ears,  causing  ale 
to  be  sold  according  to  the  assize  laid  upon  it.  Ordered  that  the 
said  wardens  shall  taste  and  try  ale  fi'om  day  to  day  when  need 
be,  and  lay  the  assize  according  to  the  value  thereof,  and  those 


304  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366.  Membrane  Gd — cont. 

in  fault  shall  be  punished  at  the  next  view  of  frankpledge  by 
presentment  of  them  and  of  the  dozeners  according  to  the 
amount  of  the  fault. 

4.  The  prior  says  that  the  burgesses  claim  that  all  defaults 
of  butchers,  fishmongers,  cooks  and  sellers  of  other  victuals 
be  not  accused  nor  punished  but  once  a  year  though  they  trespass 
many  times,  meaning  for  all  trespasses  to  pay  but  4^.  a  year, 
which  is  a  hurt  and  oppression  of  the  people  and  contrary  to  the 
law  of  the  land.  The  burgesses  answer  that  the  prior's  view  of 
frankpledge  is  held  but  once  a  year,  that  the  prior  has  no  privilege 
to  punish  such  things  but  by  virtue  of  his  said  view,  and  so  they 
may  not  be  oftener  punished  ;  and  as  to  the  said  M.  as  above  was 
said.  Ordered  that  every  seller  of  victuals  in  every  market  of 
the  said  town  or  on  another  day  when  victuals  shall  be  sold 
shall  according  to  the  statute  be  chastised  by  the  prior,  his 
steward  or  bailiffs,  and  if  not  punished  for  all  such  trespasses 
before  the  view  of  frankpledge  the  dozeners  shall  then  present 
his  defaults  and  how  many  they  be,  and  he  shall  be  amerced 
and  affeered  for  every  fault  according  to  the  amount  thereof. 

5.  The  prior  says  that  the  burgesses  claim  that  in  the  view  of 
frankpledge  the  dozeners  shall  present  no  hue  and  cry,  '  homsoken,' 
rescue  and  bloodshed,  and  suffer  none  such  to  be  presented,  but 
hinder  the  bailiffs  and  constable  of  the  said  town  from  attaching  any 
who  is  at  fault  in  the  premises.  The  burgesses  answer  that  the 
foundation  of  the  town  is  upon  the  traffic  which  commonly  takes 
place  without  the  town  for  buying  and  selling  of  merchandise, 
and  they  may  not  purpose  to  arrest  those  making  such  affrays, 
but  it  was  ever  heretofore  used  that  the  prior  should  have  his 
bailiffs  to  arrest  such  transgressors  and  present  such  defaults 
in  his  court,  and  if  the  bailiffs  might  not  arrest  them  any  burgess 
whatsoever  found  in  the  town  would  be  aiding  the  said  bailiffs 
at  their  order,  but  such  things  ought  not  to  be  presented  by  the 
dozeners.  Ordered,  in  accordance  with  the  usage  alleged,  that 
the  prior's  bailiffs,  constables  and  ministers  shall  attach  such 
affrays,  and  shall  at  the  view  of  frankpledge  present  hue  and 
cry,  rescue,  '  homsoken '  and  bloodshed,  and  every  offender 
shall  be  amerced  for  every  fault  and  affeered  according  to  the 
amount  thereof,  so  that  if  owing  to  resistance  the  said  ministers 
may  not  or  dare  not  make  such  attachments,  any  burgess  shall 
be  aiding  as  aforesaid. 

6.  The  prior  says  that  the  burgesses  claim  that  the  dozeners 
nor  any  of  them  ought  to  be  amerced  in  the  prior's  view  of 
frankpledge  for  absence  on  the  day  thereof  if  he  shall  not  be  seen 
in  the  town  after  sunrise,  and  clamour  that  none  be  amerced 
and  affeered  at  more  than  id.  for  any  trespasses,  though  offending 
many  times.  The  burgesses  answer  that  so  it  was  used  hereto- 
fore, unless  it  might  be  proved  that  absence  was  by  fraud  or  collu- 
sion ;  and  as  to  amercement,  that  when  a  man  ought  to  be  amerced 
twice,  thrice  or  oftener,  they  willingly  suffer  amercement  at  4d. 
for  every  such  fault,  and  whereas  by  law  there  ought  to  be  but 
one  amercement  only  as  in  breach  of  the  assize  of  ale  and  so 
forth,  they  were  ever  used  after  the  fine  and  grant  aforesaid  to 
pay  id.  only  though  they  should  offend  many  times.     Ordered 


40  EDWARD  III.  305 


13G(5.  Membrane  Gd — coni. 

that  every  headborough  and  liis  dozcner  bo  boiind  to  come  to  the 
view  of  fi'aTik])ledge  on  tlie  day  tliereof,  unless  lie  shall  have  leave 
of  absence  from  the  prior  or  his  stewaid,  and  if  he  make  default 
he  shall  be  amerced  and  affeered  according  to  the  magnitude 
of  his  offence. 

7.     The  prior  says  that  the  commonalty  of  the  town  hinder 
the  dozeners  from  presenting  defaults  of  those  dwelling  within 
the  precinct  of  the  view  of  frankpledge  who  have  leave  of  absence 
from  their  dozeners,  or  absent  themselves  in  a  matter  of  appearance 
{causa  veniendi  se  absentant).     The   burgesses   answer  that  this 
they  have  never  claimed  nor  will  claim. 
And  in  order  that  concord  and  enduring  peace  may  be  in  time  to 
come,  it  is  by  the  council  ordeied  and  decreed  that  a  writing  indented 
between  the  parties  be  made  for  a  perpetual  memorial  concerning  the 
form  of  submission  and  the  above  grievances,  answers,  claims  and  decree ; 
and  as  well  the  prior  and  convent,  for  them  and  their  successors, 
as  the  said  burgesses  and  commonalty  for  them,  their  heirs,  assigns 
and  successors,  hereby  will  and  agree  that  the  order  and  decree  afore- 
said shall  be  observed  and  kept,    and   that   neither   party   may   in 
time  to  come  make  any  claim  or  demand  contrary  to  the  same  ; 
and  as  to  the  custom  contained  in  the  seventh  article,  which  they 
said  they  never  claimed,  the  burgesses  and  commonalty  grant  that  they, 
their  heirs  etc.  will  never  claim  the  same  in  time  to  come.      And 
because  the  seals  of  the  said  burgesses  are  to  most  men  unknown 
and  the  commonalty  of  the  said  town  has  no  seal,  by  judgment  of  the 
council  with  assent  of  the  parties  this  indenture  shall  be  recorded 
and  enrolled  in  chancery,  and  shall  have  the  force  and  effect  of  a 
record,  and  be  held  to  be  a  record  and  final  concord  in  the  premises 
in  time  to  come.     Dated  Westminster,  30  November  40  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  that  on  4  December  at  Westminster  the  said  prior, 
for  himself  and  the  convent  and  for  their  successors,  and  the  men 
above  named,  for  themselves  and  the  commonalty  of  the  town,  their 
heirs  and  successors,  submitted  themselves  to  the  order  of  the  council, 
wherefore  the  council  viewed  the  foregoing  indenture,  and  ordered 
that  all  things  therein  contained  be  observed  and  kept,  and  that  it 
be  enrolled  japon  the  rolls  of  chancery  and  held  for  a  record  for  ever. 
Memoratidum  that  the  tenor  of  this  enrolment  was  exemplified  by 
letters  patent  under  the  great  seal,  in  the  form  of  an  inspeximus, 
tested  at  W^estminster,  10  December. 

Membrane  5d. 

Nov.   11.         John  Dovy    citizen    of    London    to    Thomas    de    Aldoun    knight. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  1,000Z.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 

Indenture  of  agreement  between  Sir  Thomas  de  Aldoun  knight  of 
Kent  and  John  Dovy  citizen  of  London,  covenanting  that  the  said 
John,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  shall  from  the  date  of  these  presents 
until  Michaelmas  next  and  thenceforth  for  ten  years  peaceably  hold 
the  manors  of  Ditton,  Siffleton  and  Brampton  co.  Kent  whereof  Sir 
Thomas  has  enfeoffed  him,  and  has  made  him  a  release  which  is  enrolled 
in  chancery,  rendering  80  marks  a  year  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter 
by  even  portions,  the  first  term  of  payment  being  Michaelmas  next, 
power  being  reserved  to  Sir  Thomas   to  distrain  for  arrears  ;  that 

E  20 


306  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366,  Membrane  5d — cont. 

Sir  Thomas  or  his  heirs  shall  pay  the  said  John,  his  executors  or  assigns, 
28SI.  14s.  at  Midsummer  next  and  Christmas  folloAving  by  even 
portions,  which  sum  he  owes  of  clear  debt ;  for  defeasance  of  the 
foregoing  recognisance,  upon  condition  that  if  the  said  John  sliall 
peaceably  hold  the  said  manors  without  molestation  during  the  term 
aforesaid,  and  if  Sir  Thomas  or  another  in  his  name  shall  make^  the  pay- 
ments aforesaid  in  the  church  of  St.  Paul  London,  the  said  John  shall 
within  a  month  after  the  said  term  enfeoff  Sir  Thomas  or  his  heirs  of  the 
same  manors,  saving  always  that  if  the  said  John,  his  heirs  or  assigns, 
be  put  out  of  the  said  manors  or  any  part  thereof,  molested  or 
challenged  by  Sir  Thomas  or  his  heirs  or  by  any  other  within  the  said 
term,  or  if  the  said  payment  be  not  made  in  part  or  in  whole,  the 
said  recognisance  shall  be  void,  and  the  said  John  and  his  heirs  shall 
be  discharged  of  every  rent  reserved  or  other  farm,  charge  or  condition 
whatsoever.  Dated  London,  12  November  40  Edward  III.  French. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  12  November. 

Writing  of  John  Beket,  brother  and  heir  of  Thomas  Beket,  being 
a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  de  la  Lee  knight  and  Joan  his  wife, 
the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  John  de  la  Lee,  of  the  manor  of 
Hertesho  co.  Essex  with  the  advowson  of  Farnham  '  in  the  Grene  ' 
which  were  of  the  said  Thomas.  Witnesses :  Sir  Richard  de 
Ravenser,  Sir  Richard  de  Chestrefeld,  Sir  Walter  de  Aldebury  clerks, 
John  Bataille,  Thomas  Frere,  William  Rokesburgh.  Dated  London, 
the  morrow  of  St.  Martin  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  15  November. 

Nov.  17.        Thomas  son  of  Walter  de  Faucomberge  to  the  king.     Recognisance 
Woodstock,    for  6,000Z.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Yorkshire. 

The  king  is  assured  that  the  foregoing  recognisance  was  made  upon 
condition  that  the  said  Thomas  should  enfeoff  certain  particular  persons 
of  all  lands  which  he  holds  in  fee  and  heritage,  so  that  they  might  again 
enfeoff  the  said  Thomas  and  Constance  his  wife  under  a  particular 
form ;  and  because  the  said  Constance  after  in  November  42  Edward  III, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  acknowledged  that  the  condition  was 
fulfilled,  the  king  ordered  the  chancellor  that  this  recognisance  should  be 
cancelled,  wherefore  it  is  cancelled. 

Writing  of  John  Foliot  parson  of  Slyndefold,  being  a  bond  to  Sir 
Stephen  Coughtele  vicar  of  Horsham  in  a  yearly  pension  of  50  marks 
payable  in  the  church  of  St.  Paul  London,  one  moiety  at  the  feast  of 
St.  John  Baptist  next  the  other  at  the  Purification  following,  and 
so  from  year  to  year  and  from  term  to  term  during  the  said  Stephen's 
life.     Dated  Londpn,  the  morrow  of  St.  Lucy  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of    ackno"wledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Lamhithe, 

14  December. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  bond,  upon  condition 
that  John  Foliot  parson  of  Slyndefold  pay  to  Sir  Stephen  Coughtele 
vicar  of  Horsham  12^  marks  at  every  of  the  terms  therein  named. 
Dated  London,  15  December  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum   of    acknowledgment    by   the   parties   at   Lamhithe, 

15  December. 


40  EDWARD  TIT.  307 


1300.  Membrane  5d — cont. 

Writing  of  John  Chaworth  of  Med  burn  parson  of  Cosyngton  co. 
Lcycester,  being  a  bond  to  Jolni  atte  Ram,  Roger  Porter  '  cliaundelere  ' 
and  John  Abbot  tailor  eitizens  of  London  in  33/.  jiayable  at  Easter 
next  in  the  church  of  St.  Bride  Fletestrete  in  the  suburb  of  London. 
Dated  London,  14  December  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Lamhithe,  16  December. 

Membrane  4d. 

Charter  of  Thomas  de  Faucombergh  of  Skelton,  giving  with  warranty 
to  Michael  de  Ravendale  clerk,  John  de  Hatfeld,  William  de  Nessefeld 
and  Hugli  de  Westwyk  clerk,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  his  castle  and 
manors  of  Skelton,  Mersk  and  Brantyngham,  the  bailiwick  of  the 
wapentake  of  Langbergh,  and  all  other  his  lands,  rents  and  services, 
neifs  and  all  that  goes  A\ith  tliem  in  Yorkshire  which  descended  to 
him  by  inheritance  after  the  death  of  Walter  de  Faucombergh  his 
father.     Dated  London,  Tuesday  after  St.  Andrew  40  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Faucombergh  of  Skelton,  being  a  letter  of 
attorney  to  John  Capon  to  deliver  to  Michael  de  Ravendale  clerk, 
John  de  Hatfeld,  William  de  Nessefeld  and  Hugh  de  Westwyk  clerk, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  seisin  of  the  castle  and  manors  of  Skelton, 
Mersk  and  Brantyngham,  the  bailiwick  of  the  wapentake  of  Langberg, 
and  all  other  lands  etc.  in  Yorkshire  which  descended  to  the  said 
Thomas  after  the  death  of  Walter  Faucomberg  his  father.  Dated 
{as  the  last). 

W^riting  of  Thomas  de  Faucomberg  of  Skelton,  giving  to  Michael 
de  Ravendale  clerk,  John  de  Hatfeld,  Hugh  de  Westwyk  clerk  and 
Alexander  de  Whiteby  a  yearly  rent  of  500/.  issuing  from  all  his  lands 
in  Yorkshire,  a  yearly  rent  of  200/.  issuing  from  all  his  lands  in  Nor- 
hamptonshire,  and  a  yearly  rent  of  100/.  issuing  from  all  his  lands 
in  Bedfordshire,  all  to  be  taken  yearly  at  WTiitsuntide  and  Martinmas 
by  even  portions,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears.  Dated  London, 
Wednesday  after  St.  Nicholas  40  Edward  III. 

Charter  of  Thomas  de  Faucomberg  lord  of  Skelton,  giving  with 
warranty  to  Michael  de  Ravendale  clerk,  John  de  Hatfeld,  William  de 
Nessefeld  and  Hugh  de  Westwyk  clerk,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  his 
manor  of  Retheresthrop  and  all  other  his  lands,  rents  and  services, 
neifs  and  all  that  goes  with  them  in  the  towns  of  Pateshull,  Anescot, 
Derlescot,  Descot,  Farnyngho,  Potecot,  Lychebarowe,  Maydesford, 
Tiffeld,  Gayton,  Heppewell,  Preston  and  elsewhere  in  Norhampton- 
shire,  which  descended  to  him  by  inheritance  after  the  death  of 
Wilham  de  Pateshull  his  cousin.  Dated  London,  Thursday  after 
St.  Nicholas  40  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Faucomberg  of  Skelton,  beig  a  letter  of  attorney 
to  John  Capon  to  deliver  to  Michael  de  Ravendale  clerk,  John  de 
Hatfeld,  Wilham  de  Nessefeld  and  Hugh  de  Westwyk  clerk,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  seisin  of  the  manor  of  Retheresthrop  and  lands  etc. 
in  the  towns  of  Pateshull,  Anescot,  Derlescot,  Descot,  Farnyngho, 
Potecot,  Lychebarowe,  Maydeford,  Tyfield,  Gayton,  Heppewell  and 


308  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366.  Membrane  4d — cont. 

Preston  and  elsewhere  in  Norhamptonshire  which  descended  to  the 
said  Thomas  after  the  death  of  WilHam  de  PateshuU  his  cousin. 
Dated  {as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of   acknowledgment  of    the  foregoing    charters  and 
writings  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster,  12  December. 

Oct.  20.  To  the  bailiffs  and  true  men  and  all  the  commonalty  of  the 
Westminster,  town  of  Great  Jernemuth.  Order,  under  a  pain  of  lOOZ.,  to  suffer 
the  barons  of  the  Cinque  Ports  without  let  to  use  and  enjoy  at  this 
present  fair  of  Jernemuth  the  liberties  and  offices  hereinafter  mentioned, 
and  all  other  liberties  and  quittances  in  regard  to  the  fair  contained 
in  letters  patent  of  King  Edward  I  and  in  the  king's  charter  of  con- 
firmation so  long  as  the  fair  shall  last,  the  certificate  of  the  said  bailiffs 
and  commonalty  hereinafter  recited  and  the  causes  therein  alleged 
notwithstanding,  so  bearing  themselves  that  the  king  may  not  need 
to  stretch  forth  his  hand  by  reason  of  their  default  and  disobedience, 
and  to  the  said  bailiffs  to  be  in  person  before  the  king  and  council  at 
Westminster  on  the  morrow  of  All  Souls  to  answer  touching  these 
matters  and  others  which  shall  be  laid  against  them  on  the  king's 
behalf  ;  as  in  the  said  letters  patent  touching  a  composition  between 
the  said  barons  and  the  people  of  the  said  town,  for  appeasing  strife 
and  debate  between  them  moved,  it  is  contained  {inter  alia),  that  the 
said  king's  will  was  that  the  said  barons  in  time  of  the  said  fair  during 
40  days  should  have  the  keeping  of  the  king's  peace  and  should  do 
the  king's  {realem)  justice  with  the  provost  of  the  town,  in  the  form 
following,  that  during  the  fair  the  said  barons  should  have  four  Serjeants, 
one  to  carry  the  king's  banner,  a  second  to  blow  a  horn  for  assembling 
the  people  and  to  be  the  better  heard,  and  other  two  to  carry  wands 
for  keeping  the  peace  there,  and  this  office  they  should  do  on  horseback  if 
they  Mould,  doing  and  executing  also  certain  other  things  in  the  said 
letters  contained ;  and  the  king  has  by  charter  confirmed  these 
liberties  and  certain  other  liberties  and  quittances  granted  by  his 
forefathers  to  the  said  barons,  granting  further  for  him  and 
his  heirs  to  the  said  barons,  for  their  good  service  to  him  and 
his  forefathers,  that  they  and  their  successors  should  without 
trouble  or  let  of  the  king,  his  heirs  or  ministers  whatsoever, 
use  and  enjoy  these  liberties  and  quittances  and  every  of  them 
though  any  of  them  were  not  heretofore  fully  used  by  the  said 
barons  or  their  ancestors  ;  but  being  informed  that  certain  men  of 
Jernemuth  Avould  unlawfully  have  hindered  the  said  barons  from 
exercising  their  said  office  at  this  coming  fair,  and  from  using  and 
enjoying  the  said  liberties,  alleging  that  the  said  barons  abused  or  did 
not  use  those  liberties  or  at  least  some  of  them,  the  king  by  writ  com- 
manded the  said  bailiffs  and  commonalty  to  desist  altogether  from 
such  hindrances,  suffering  the  barons  during  the  said  fair  to  use  and 
enjoy  the  said  liberties  and  office  and  all  other  liberties  and  quittances 
in  regard  to  the  fair  according  to  the  said  letters  patent  and  charter, 
and  not  troubling  them  contrary  to  what  is  therein  contained,  the 
pretended  abuse  or  non-user  thereof  notwithstanding,  or  to  signify 
to  the  king  wherefore  they  did  not  obey  his  command  at  another  time 
to  them  addressed  ;  and  they  signified  that  forasmuch  as  the  said 
liberties  were  discontinued  the  year  last  past  by  default  of  Ihe  said 
barons,  and  the  barons  did  not  produce  before  them  the  charters  thereof 
granted  them,  it  seemed  to  the  bailiffs  and  commonalty  that  the 


40  EDWARD  III 


309 


1800. 


Membrane  4c? — cont. 


barons  ouglit  not  to  use  tliose  liberties  without  a  grant  of  the  king's 
special  favour  concerning  the  rene\\al  thereof,  that  if  the  barons  by 
virtue  of  tlie  king's  conunand  ought  to  enjoy  the  same,  they  should 
use  them  in  mamier  accustomed,  namely  every  Sunday  during  the 
fair  at  the  hour  of  prime  before  the  beginning  of  high  mass  in  the  parish 
church,  and  that  at  the  time  of  the  delivery  of  the  said  writ  that  hour 
was  past  and  high  mass  was  begun,  and  so  they  had  exceeded  their 
time.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Foedera.] 


Membrane  M. 

Dec.  24.  To  Ralph  earl  of  Stafford,  ^^'illiam  dc  Shareshull,  James  de  Pype, 
Westmiustor.  Nicholas  de  Beck  and  Thomas  Gegge  of  Neuport.  Revocation  of 
letters  patent  appointing  them  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  Stafford- 
shire, and  command  to  stay  altogether  any  further  proceedings  before 
them  by  virtue  of  tluit  commission,  sending  to  the  king  under  seal  of 
the  said  \\'illiam  the  said  commission,  with  all  indictments,  records  and 
processes  before  them  begun  and  not  yet  determined,  and  this  writ, 
so  that  the  king  shall  have  them  in  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary,  to  do 
further  therein  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  the  realm. 

By  K.  and  C. 

1367. 
Jan.  10.  To  the  prior  and  convent  of  Kellyngworth.  Order  and  request, 
Westminster,  if  Geoffrey  Pycard  who  at  the  king's  request  has  a  set  maintenance 
in  that  priory  will  give  up  the  letters  patent  by  them  made  him 
concerning  the  same,  to  take  again  those  letters  and  admit  Henry 
Dalemaigne  the  king's  yeoman  and  Agnes  his  wife  to  their  house 
and  grant  them  the  same  maintenance  for  their  lives,  making  and 
delivering  to  them  like  letters  patent  under  the  common  seal  of 
the  said  house,  and  writing  again  by  the  bearer  what  they  will  do 
at  this  request ;  as  the  said  Geoffrey  is  minded  that  the  said  Henry 
and  Agnes  should  have  his  estate  in  the  maintenance  aforesaid,  and 
is  ready  as  he  says  to  give  up  the  said  letters,  praying  the  king's  assent ; 
and  the  king  would  shew  more  abundant  favour  to  the  said  Henry  and 
Agnes.  By    p.s.     [27240.] 


Jan.  6.  To  Reynold  de  Sholdham  the  king's  searcher  in  the  port  of  London  and 

Westminster,  the  river  Thames.  Order  to  make  diligent  search  in  the  city  and  suburbs 
of  London  touching  wines  exposed  for  sale,  and  to  cause  all  such  wines 
which  he  shall  find  not  gauged  to  be  arrested  as  forfeit  according  to  the 
statute  and  safe  kept  until  further  order,  certifying  the  king  in  chancery 
from  time  to  time  under  seal  concerning  all  wines  so  arrested  and  all 
other  wines  not  gauged  which  were  sold  in  the  searcher's  absence,  their 
description  and  quality,  the  owners  and  price  thereof  ;  as  in  the  statute 
holden  [sic)  at  Westminster  in  the  31st  year  of  the  reign  it  is  contained 
[inter  alia)  that  if  any  man  sell  to  any  a  tun  or  pipe  of  wine  not  gauged, 
the  seller  shall  forfeit  that  wine  to  the  king  or  the  value  thereof  ; 
and  now  the  king  is  informed  that  great  number  of  vintners  and  others, 
fearing  not  that  forfeiture,  are  selling  and  causing  to  be  sold  by  their 
servants  in  the  said  city  and  the  suburb  thereof  divers  tuns  and  pipes 
of  wine  not  gauged,  in  contempt  of  the  king,  to  the  deceit  and  hurt 
cf  the  people  and  contraxy  to  the  statute.  By  C, 


310 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1367.  Membrane  Sd — cont. 

Jan.  22.  John  Frenshe  of  Shenefeld  to  Robert  de  Muskham  clerk.      Recog- 

Westminster.  nisance  for  201.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 


Jan.  23. 

Westminster. 

Jan.  23. 

Westminster. 


1366. 


chattels  in  Essex. 

William  Forester  of  Welby  to  William  de  Kelleseye. 
for  5  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Lincolnshire. 


Recognisance 


To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  cause  proclamation 
to  be  made  in  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London  that  all  merchants, 
vintners  and  others  cause  their  wines  for  sale  to  be  gauged  without  delay 
under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof,  and  to  cause  all  wines  which  they  shall 
find  exposed  for  sale  and  not  gauged,  first  making  dihgent  search 
touching  the  matter,  to  be  taken  as  forfeit  into  the  king's  hand  accord- 
ing to  the  statutes,  and  those  who  shall  make  debate  or  resistance 
and  will  not  suffer  their  wines  to  be  gauged  to  be  taken  and  imprisoned 
until  further  order,  certifying  in  chancery  from  time  to  time  under  seal 
concerning  wines  so  arrested,  the  price,  description  and  owners  thereof  ; 
as  in  the  statute  holden  {sic)  at  Westminster  in  the  27th  year  of  the 
reign  it  is  contained  {inter  alia)  that  all  red  wines  and  white  brought 
for  sale  into  the  realm  of  England  or  the  lands  of  Ireland  and  Wales 
shall  be  truly  gauged  by  the  king's  ganger  or  his  deputy,  so  that  any 
man  making  hindrance  or  debate  and  not  suffering  his  wines  to  be 
gauged  shall  forfeit  the  same,  be  punished  by  imprisonment,  and  be 
ransomed  at  the  king's  will,  and  that  if  a  tun  or  a  pipe  of  wine  for 
sale  shall  contain  less  than  it  ought  according  to  the  assize  the  price  of  so 
much  wine  as  shall  be  lacking  shall  be  allowed  and  subtracted  at  the 
payment  thereof  according  to  the  price  of  the  tun  or  pipe  ;  and  in 
another  statute  published  in  the  31st  year  it  is  contained  that,  if  a 
man  shall  sell  to  any  a  tun  or  pipe  of  wine  not  gauged,  the  seller  shall 
forfeit  that  wine  to  the  king  or  the  value  thereof  ;  and  now  the  king 
is  informed  that  certain  merchants,  as  well  vintners  of  the  said  city 
as  others,  seeking  excessive  and  unlawful  gain  of  their  wines,  are 
causing  tuns  and  pipes  of  wine  to  be  lodged  without  the  knowledge  of 
the  king's  ganger,  and  have  long  been  selling  the  same  to  nobles  and 
others  as  containing  a  right  prise,  though  they  do  not  but  are  much 
lacking,  in  contempt  of  the  king,  to  the  hurt  and  deceit  of  the 
people,  the  prejudice  and  loss  of  the  ganger,  and  contrary  to  the 
statute.  By    C. 

[Fcedera.] 

Memorandum  of  a  grant  made  by  Isabel  who  was  wife  of  Sir  Walter 
Faucomberge,  appearing  at  Westminster  in  the  Star  council  chamber 
near  the  receipt  of  the  exchequer  on  Wednesday  after  All  Saints 
40  Edward  III  before  the  chancellor,  treasurer  and  others  of  the 
council,  that  if  Thomas  son  and  heir  of  the  said  Walter  by  any  true 
entail  has  action  concerning  the  tenements  by  her  held  jointly  with 
her  said  husband,  she  will  take  no  benefit  nor  advantage  of  any  release 
made  her  by  the  said  Thomas  ;  that  she  wiU  swear  to  surrender  at 
the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next  all  deeds  and  muniments  in  her  keeping 
which  affect  the  heiitage of  the  said  Thomas,  save  only  those  by  which 
she  claims  a  joint  estate  for  her  life  in  the  manors  of  Rise,  Wythornewyk 
and  Brune  ;  that  if  the  said  Thomas  has  action  for  waste  against 
her  she  will  take  no  benefit  nor  advantage  of  any  release  made  her 
by  him ;    that  if  she  be  unreasonably  dowered  her  dower  shall  be 


40  EDWARD  III  311 


136(3.  Membrane  Sd — cont. 

apportioned  by  the  king's  court  witliout  taking  benefit  or  advantage 
of  any  rekvxso  by  him  made,  and  if  dowered  of  tenements  not  subject 
to  dower  by  reason  of  a  previous  entail  she  will  take  no  advantage 
of  any  such  release  ;  that  if  the  said  Thomas  be  condemned  in  the 
court  of  Christianity  at  her  suit  or  at  the  suit  of  any  other  in  her  name 
there  shall  bo  defeasance  of  all  such  condemnations,  and  she  will 
surrender  all  the  lands  M'liich  she  has  in  Skelton  and  Mersk  for  a  term 
of  years  by  lease  of  the  said  Tliomas  saving  her  right  and  reasonable 
costs  of  husbandry ;  that  whereas  by  deed  enrolled  in  chancery  the  said 
Thomas  has  granted  to  her  and  her  heirs  one  villein  of  his,  she  will 
surrender  the  said  deed,  and  the  said  villein  shall  remain  appurtenant 
to  the  manor  of  Rise  of  the  said  Thomas  as  he  was  before  ;  and  that 
all  the  deeds  made  by  the  said  Thomas  from  the  proof  of  his  age  to 
this  day  to  any  persons  whatsoever  shall  be  annulled,  saving  to  the 
said  Isabel  that  which  slie  paid  for  the  deeds  aforesaid.  French. 
1807. 
Jan.  23.  To  John  de  Moubx'ay  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  assize  in  Staffordshire. 
Westminster.  Order,  if  there  be  an  assize  of  novel  disseisin  pending  before  them 
between  Thomas  son  of  Richard  de  Covene  plaintiff  and  John  de 
Waterfall,  Amice  his  wife  and  others  defendants  concerning  tenements 
in  Wolverenehampton,  and  if  the  proceedings  therein  have  been  as 
hereinafter  recited,  to  proceed  to  take  that  assize  and  do  justice 
to  the  parties,  the  allegation  of  the  defendants  that  the  premises 
are  held  of  the  king,  were  aliened  without  licence,  and  committed 
to  the  defendants  by  exchequer  commission  for  a  set  farm  payable 
to  the  king  notwithstanding,  provided  always  that  the  said  justices 
shall  not  proceed  to  rendering  of  judgment  without  advising  the  king  ; 
as  the  said  Thomas  has  she\\'n  the  king  that  he  arraigned  the  assize 
aforesaid  before  William  de  Fyncheden  and  his  fellows  late  justices 
of  assize  in  that  county,  putting  in  view  a  messuage  and  appurtenances 
in  the  said  town,  and  that  the  said  late  justices  by  reason  of  the 
allegation  aforesaid  made  in  pleading  by  the  said  John  and  Amice 
put  off  taking  the  same  ;  and  now^  the  assize  remains  to  be  taken 
before  the  justices  first  above  named,  and  the  said  plaintiff  has  prayed 
for  remedy,  fearing  that  by  reason  of  the  same  allegation  they  will 
not  take  the  said  assize.  By  C. 

Membrane  2d. 

1366.  Assignment  of  dower  of  Beatrice  wife  of  Thomas  de  la  Ryvere, 

late  wdfe  of  Thomas  de  Sancto  Omero  tenant  in  chief,  made  at 
Mulkeberton  co.  Norffolk  by  Roger  de  Wolferton  escheator  23  May 
40  Edward  III.  In  the  manor  of  Mulkeberton  a  moiety  of  the  older 
grange  on  the  west  side  as  appears  by  the  bounds  there  set,  the  moiety 
of  a  new  house  called  '  Longenewehous  '  on  the  w'est  by  the  bounds 
there  set,  a  certain  part  of  '  Longestable  '  towards  the  north  by  the 
bounds,  with  the  whole  of  a  little  house  thereto  attached  at  the  north 
end  by  the  north  door,  a  third  part  of  the  court  called  the  '  Gateyerd  ' 
with  ingress  and  egress  by  both  gates  of  the  manor  when  need  be,  a 
third  part  of  all  common  as  well  in  all  the  great  green  {viridario)  opposite 
the  manor  to^\ard  the  south  as  in  Carleton  common  and  elsewhere 
upon  the  lordship  thereof  ;  pieces  of  land  in  the  said  manor  called 
Shortelond  containing  6  acres  1  rood,  and  Buntisdele  containing  4  acres 
3  roods,  7|  acres  of  land  in  a  piece  of  land  called  Shordole,  19|  acres 
of  land  in  Ryedole  called  '  Longedole,'  a  piece'  of  land  called  Esshryde 


ai2  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1366,  Membrane  2d — cont. 

containing  10  acres,  in  the  Bekfurlong  6  acres  of  land,  in  Nethirtathagh 
9  acres  1  rood  of  land,  in  Wodefurlong  1  acre,  at  Wynmelle  3  acres, 
in  S^^'erdistonefeld  1  rood  of  land  ;   of  meadows  for  mowing  in  the  said 
^  manor,  in  a  meadow  called  the  Caus  3  acres  in  the  midst  thereof, 

in  the  Ponde  1  acre  in  the  midst  thereof,  in  Dodemor  in  the  midst 
thereof  3  roods,  in  a  meadow  called  Chasteleynes  1  rood  ;   of  pasture 
in  the  said  manor  a  piece  of  pasture  called  Ladyesyerd  containing 
3  roods,  a  pightel  called  Wyneyerd  with  the  curtilage  adjoining  as 
enclosed  with  hedges  and  ditches,  and  all  the  pasture  at  the  end  of  a 
piece  of  land  called  '  Sexacris  '  ;    of  wood  in  the  said  manor  all  the 
wood  called  Fredelound  with  the  hedges  and  ditches  containing  in 
all  17|  acres  ;    a  third  part  of  the  liberty  of  the  fold  of  the  manor  ; 
all  the  service  and  rent  of  Thomas  Waxman  for  his  lands  in  Mulkebreton, 
the  service  of  John  Gurnay  with   5Jc^.  of  yearly  rent,  of  Christiana 
Bonyngton  with  5d.  rent,  of  William  Birch  with  l^d.  rent,  of  William 
Scaleng  with  2d.  rent ;    of  waste  lands  of  divers  tenants  in  the  said 
manor  namely  one  toft,  14  acres  of  land  and  1  acre  of  meadow  sometime 
of  Thomas  de  Stongate  '  masoun,'  1  acre  1  rood  of  land  late  of  Richard 
Wayte  ;  Thomas  Isabel  neif,  with  all  his  land  and  all  that  goes  with 
him  and  with  all  his  rent,  services  and  customs,  William  Birch  neif 
with  his  suit  and  all  that  goes  with  him,  his  land,  services  and  customs, 
Henry  Batte  of  Stongate  neif,  his  suit  and  all  that  goes  with  him,  his 
lands,  services  and  customs,  the  services  and  customs  of  divers  new- 
comers  {adventitiorum)  holding  lands  in  neifty,  namely  Adam  Coo, 
Thomas  Wilkokes,  Thomas  Knyght,  Thomas  Ymme,  John  Gurnay, 
Henry  Isabell  with  their  lands,  customs,  rents  and  services  ;  a  third 
part  of  the  leet  of  Mulkeberton  to  be  holden  yearly  on  the  accustomed 
day  ;  a  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Keteryngham,  namely  a  fourth  part 
of  the  grange  therein  on  the  north  side  as  by  the  bounds  appears,  a 
house  on  the  west  side,  namely  next  the  barn,  a  third  part  of  the  court 
•  called  the  '  Gateyerd  '  with  ingress  and  egress  by  both  gates,  a  third 

part  of  the  garden  there  on  the  south  side  by  the  bounds,  and  a  third 
part  of  Conghomisyerd  on  the  Avest  side  ;  of  the  arable  land  in 
Shepehouscroft  called  Intwodewyng  in  two  pieces  of  land  namely 
on  either  side  of  the  road  containing  20  acres,  in  Keteringhamfeld 
S  acres  of  land  on  the  south  side  called  the  Redyng,  a  piece  of  land 
at  Tounesende  called  Nethergate  containing  3  roods,  at  the  south 
gate  of  the  manor  3J  acres  of  land,  at  Brempet  in  a  piece  of  land 
3  acres,  in  a  piece  of  land  called  Shortlond  2  acres,  a  piece  of  land  by 
Wahsaker  half  an  acre,  in  Herlawemere  1  acre,  at  Smythtescroft 
3  roods  of  land,  in  a  piece  of  land  called  Conghamescroft  13  acres,  in  a 
croft  called  '  Jonescroft  atte  Wode  '  1  acre,  a  piece  of  land  at  Kippes- 
croftende  containing  3  roods,  in  a  piece  of  land  called  Walliscroft 
3  roods  ;  in  the  meadow  there  a  moiety  of  Casteleynesdam  on  the  west 
side,  in  a  meadow  called  Dilaker  1  acre,  in  the  same  meadow  another 
piece  containing  3  roods  ;  of  the  wood  3  acres  1  rood  on  the  west 
side  thereof  ;  a  third  part  of  the  liberty  of  the  fold  as  well  in  Intewode 
as  in  Keteryngham  ;  all  the  service  of  Robert  le  Gardener  with  \&d. 
of  yearly  rent,  of  John  atte  Wode  with  \2d.  of  yearly  rent,  of  Walter 
Bole  chaplain  and  his  heirs  \vith  Zd.  and  two  capons  yearly,  of  Michael 
Taillour  and  his  heirs  A\ith  one  capon  rent  every  other  year,  of  John 
Mellere  and  his  heirs  with  \2d.  yearly  rent,  of  William  Hamond  and  his 
heirs  with  2d.  yearly  rent,  of  Robert  Hengham  and  his  heirs  with  6|dt. 
yearly  rjent,  of  John  Debenham  and  his  heirs  with  Zd.  yearly   rent, 


40  EDVVAUl)  III.  313 


13()().  Membrane  2d — cont. 

of  Ricliaid  Doune  and  liis  heirs  with  A\d.  yearly  rent,  of  John  Mumppyng 
and  his  heirs  with  4|(Z.  yearly  rent,  of  Aliec  dc  Halle  and  her  heirs 
^^ith  Qd.  yearly  rent,  of  Richard  Blake  and  his  heirs  A\ith  4(Z.  yearly 
rent,  and  all  the  customs  and  services  of  Walter  de  Brandon  tenant 
in  neifty  and  his  heirs  ;  a  third  part  of  the  Icet  of  Keteryngham  yearly 
on  the  accustomed  day  ;   of  a  toft  and  3|  acres  of  land  late  of  William 
Mumppyng  a  third  part  of  all  the  farm  as  it  may  be  demised,  likewise 
of  a  toft  and  4  acres  of  land  late  of  Robert  Garman  ;   a  third  part  of 
the  manor  of  Brundale,  namely  in  the  said  manor  a  third  part  of  the 
smaller  grange  towards  tlie  east  as  appears  by  the  bounds  set  there, 
the  whole  of  a  house  on  the  west  side  of  tlie  manor  attached  to  the 
said  grange  at  the  west  end  thereof,  a  third  part  of  all  the  court  called 
the  '  Gateyerd  '  with  ingress  and  egress  by  both  gates  ;   the  advowson 
of  Brundale  church  at  eveiy  vacancy ;   of  the  arable  land  in  Apiltonecrof  t 
7  acres,  at  Grenegate  in  one  piece  of  land  11  acres,  in  a  piece  of  land  at 
Grymesgrave  8  acres,  in  a  piece  of  land  called  '  Sevenacris  '  7  acres, 
at  Kcrlyngris  along  the  east  side  by  land  of  Thomas  Stannard  and 
so  towards  Linear  10  acres  of  land  with  the  liberty  of  the  fold  as  it 
pertains  to  that  tenement  ;  of  meadow  and  pasture  the  whole  of  the 
east  enclosure  extending  from  the  entry  of  the  manor  by  the  east  end 
of  the  greater  grange  and  by  the  '  Saute '  to  the  river  bank  called  the  Ee 
with  all  the  east  garden,  meadows,  pastures  and  other  commodities  and 
appurtenances  on  all  the  east  side  aforesaid  and  the  Fysshousfiet,  all 
the  moat  with  the  piece  of  ground  therein  contained  only  excepted, 
all  the  Westker  with  the  pasture  by  the  public  north  road  and  with 
the  '  Soinger,'  as  appears  by  a  ditch  extending  from  the  said  north 
road  to  the  '  Ripe  '  as  by  metes  there  set ;    of  the  wood  a  third  part 
of  a  wood  by  the  manor  called  the  Slynt  on  the  west  side  with  a  third 
part  of  the  '  Reddole  '  opposite  the  said  wood  namely  along  the  west 
side  aforesaid;  of  waste  tenements  of  divers  tenants  in  the  manor  a  mes- 
suage, 6  acres  of  land  and  half  an  acre  of  meadow  sometime  of  William 
Lamekyn,  a  messuage,  7  acres  of  land  and  half  an  acre  of  meadow  late  of 
William  Richilde,  a  messuage,  6  acres  of  land,  1  acre  1  rood  of  meadow 
late  of  Thomas  Richilde,  and  4  acres  of  land  late  of  William  Emelet, 
also  tenants  at  fee  farm  namely  John  Baldwyne  with  55.  farm  and  suit 
of  court,  Henry  Isabell  Avith  5s.  farm  and  suit  of  court,  and  of  free- 
holders the  service  of  John  Flegard  and  his  heirs  with  \2d.  yearly 
rent,  and  of  W^illiam  Skemy  and  his  heirs  with  Sd.  yearly  rent,  also 
John  Baldewyn  tenant  for  life  of  a  moor  with  a  marsh  at  a  rent  of 
500    turves    a    year    called   Keletorf,  also   James   Dymet  a  neif  in 
the  said  manor  with  all   his  land  and  suit  and  all  that  goes  with 
him,    and     all    his     services     and     customs     to    the     said    manor 
pertaining  ;   and   a    third  part   of  the  leet  there  to  be  holden    on 
the  accustomed  day.       This  assignment  was  made  in  presence   of 
William  de  Hoo  and  Alice  his  wife  one  of  the  daughters  and  heirs  of  the 
said  Thomas  de  Sancto  Onicro,  and  of  Thomas  Waryn,  attorney  of 
Thomas  Cheyne  to  whom  the  king  by  letters  patent  has  committed 
the  marriage  and  wardship  of  Elizabeth  the  other  daughter  and  heir, 
being  within  age. 

1367,  Membrane  \d. 

Writing  of  John  Brett  knight,  giving  to  Sir  Thomas  de  Hethe  knight 
and  his  heirs  lOOZ.  of  rent,  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas 
by  even  portions  of  all  his  lands  in  W^yverton,  Langar,  Berneston, 


314  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1367.  Membrane  Id — cont. 

Titheby,  Crophill  Bisshop,  Colston  Basset,  Shelford  and  Aslakton, 
CO.  Notyngham,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  to  whose  hands 
soever  the  said  lands  shall  hereafter  come.  Dated  Wyverton,  new 
year's  day  40  Edward  III.     French. 

Writing  of  John  Brett  knight,  giving  to  Sir  Thomas  de  Hethe  knight 
and  his  heirs  50  marks  of  rent  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by 
even  portions  of  all  his  lands  in  William  Thorp,  Hynkerhull,  Wolveley 
and  Calale  co.  Derby,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears.  Dated 
{as  the  last).    French. 

Writing  of  John  Brett  knight,  giving  to  Sir  Thomas  de  Hethe  knight 
and  his  heirs  10  marks  of  rent  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas 
by  even  portions  of  his  lands  in  Esenhull  co.  Warrewyk,  with  power 
to  distrain  for  arrears.     Dated  {as  above).     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings  in  the 
chancery  at  Lamhithe,  11  January. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  John  Brett  knight  and  Sir  Thomas 
de  Hethe  knight,  being  the  defeasance  of  a  rent  of  lOOL  of  lands  in 
Wyverton,  Langar,  Berneston,  Tytheby,  Crophill  Bysshop,  Colston 
Basset,  Shelford  and  Aslakton  co.  Notyngham,  a  rent  of  50  marks  of 
lands  in  Williamthorp,  Hynkerhull,  Wolveley  and  Calale  co.  Derby,  and 
a  rent  of  10  marks  of  lands  in  Esenhull  co.  Warrewyk  by  the  said  Sir 
John  given  to  the  said  Sir  Thomas  by  several  deeds,  provided  that  Sir 
John,  his  heirs  or  executors,  shall  pay  or  cause  to  be  paid  to  Sir  Thomas, 
his  heirs  or  executors,  300L  in  gold  or  silver  within  seven  years  next 
ensuing,  and  shall  not  alien  from  his  right  heirs  any  of  the  premises 
nor  any  other  lands  of  his  heritage  or  which  may  hereafter  descend, 
revert  or  escheat  to  him,  save  the  condition  following,  to  wit  that 
it  shall  be  lawful  for  him  to  grant  all  the  premises  to  Hugh  de  Segrave, 
Sir  Roger  de  Clone  archdeacon  of  Salesbirs,  Sir  William  Ferugby  parson 
of  Wystowe,  Sir  Thomas  de  Leveryngton  parson  of  Gedelyng,  and  Sir 
John  de  Stanford  parson  of  Briggeford  and  their  heirs  so  that  as  soon 
as  he  shall  have  passed  the  sea  and  returned  to  England  they  shall 
grant  the  manor  of  Wyverton,  parcel  of  the  premises,  to  the  said  Sir 
John  Brett  and  Joan  his  wife  and  to  his  heirs  for  ever,  and  the  residue 
thereof  to  the  said  Sir  John  and  Joan  and  to  his  heirs  for  ever  in  case 
they  shall  have  issue,  and  in  case  there  be  no  issue  between  them  she 
shall  have  nothing  of  the  premises  save  the  manor  of  Wyverton  as 
aforesaid.  Dated  Wyverton,  the  morrow  of  new  year's  day 
40  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  at  Lamhithe, 
11  January. 

Jan.  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Hertford.     Order,  upon  the    petition  of  Roger 

Westminster.  Dryver,  to  cause  the  said  Roger  to  be  set  free  from  prison  by  mainprise 
of  Bartholomew  Blaket  of  Hertfordshire  and  Lawrence  de  Sutton  of 
Notynghamshire,  bringing  this  wTit  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench 
at  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary  next ;  as  the  said  petition  shews  that  John 
de  Bisshey  is  impleading  the  said  Roger  before  the  said  justices  for  that 
he  being  retained  in  the  said  John's  service  at  Little  Bisshey  without 
reasonable  cause  and  without  Ihe  said  John's  licence  withdrew  from 
that  service  before  the  end  of  the  term  agreed  contrary  to  the  ordinance, 


40    EDWARD    III. 


31. 5 


1367. 


Jan.  17. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  16. 

Westminster. 

136G. 


Membrane  Id — cont. 

that  by  process  before  the  said  justices  the  said  Roger  was  taken  and 
imprisoned,  and  that  he  is  ready  to  answer  the  said  John  and  to  stand 
to  light  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Bartholomew  and  Lawrence  have 
mainpcrned  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have  the  said  Roger 
before  the  said  justices  on  the  day  above  mentioned  to  answer  the  said 
John,  and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court  shall  determine. 

Henry  de  Sutton  citizen  of  London  to  John  de  Peckebrigge  knight. 
Recognisance  for  50/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 

William  Plomer  citizen  and  '  ledbeter  '  of  London  to  John  de  Hanhara 
citizen  and  draper  of  London.  Recognisance  for  20/.,  to  be  levied  etc. 
in  the  city  of  London. 

Writing  of  Katherine  relict  of  William  de  la  Pole  the  elder,  being  a 
quitclaim  to  the  king  and  his  heirs  of  all  right  by  reason  of  dower  or 
other  title  whatsoever  in  the  manor  of  Brustwyk  in  Holdernesse,  the 
manors  and  towns  of  Cleton,  Little  Humbre,  Burton  Pridese,  Outhorn, 
Wythornse,  Skeftelyng,  Kylnese,  Esyngton,  Preston,  Bonde  Brustwyk, 
Ravensere,  Hedon,  Barowe,  Paghel  Flete,  Sporteleye,  Lelle  Dyk  and 
Elstonwyk  together  \\'ith  the  wapentake  of  Holdernesse,  and  in  a  farm 
called  serjeanty  of  the  crown,  all  members  and  of  the  appurtenances 
of  the  said  manor  of  Brustwyk,  also  in  210  acres  of  land  and  92  acres 
of  meadow  of  the  demesne  lands  of  the  said  manor  of  Brustwyk  in 
Skeklyng,  in  the  said  towns  of  Lelle  Dyk  and  Elstonwyk,  the  towns 
and  hamlets  of  Northorp,  Hoton,  Synthorp  and  Dymelton,  in  20 
bovates  of  land  called  Rugemound,  the  manor  and  town  of  Skipse 
with  the  bailiwick  and  hamlet  of  Newehithe,  in  the  homages  and 
services  of  the  freeholders  in  Holem  and  all  other  members  and  appur- 
tenances, and  likewise  in  the  manors  of  Gryngele  and  Wheteleye 
CO.  Notyngham,  in  a  yearly  rent  of  260  marks  which  t-he  said  William 
took  of  the  ancient  custom  of  wools,  hides  and  woolfells  in  the  port  of 
Kyngeston  upon  Hull,  and  in  all  other  the  lands  and  tenements  which 
the  said  William  had  of  the  said  king's  gift  and  surrendered  into  the 
king's  hands.  Dated  Kyngeston  upon  Hull,  Monday  after  St.  Lucy 
40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Kyngeston  upon  Hull, 
14  December,  before  Thomas  de  Ingelby  to  whom  the  king  gave  power 
to  receive  that  acknowledgment  by  writ  of  dedimus  potestatem,  which 
is  upon  the  files  of  chancery  for  this  year. 


(316) 


41  EDWARD  III. 


1367.  Membrane  26. 

Feb.  7.  To  the   mayor   and   bailiffs   and   the   true   men   of   the   town   of 

Westminster.  Plummuth.  Order  to  take  information  by  inquisition  and  otherwise 
as  they  best  may  concerning  the  goods  and  merchandise  cast  up  from 
a  ship  of  St.  Antony  called  '  la  Panjyo  '  of  Jeen  in  consequence  of  the 
shipwreck  thereof  and  taken  and  carried  off  by  the  men  of  the  said 
town  and  of  the  neighbouring  parts,  and  to  cause  all  such  as  the 
merchants  may  by  marks,  metes  [metas)  or  other  true  evidences  prove 
to  be  theirs  which  are  aa  ithheld  from  them  to  be  without  delay  or 
difficulty  delivered  to  Lukettus  <^rillus  the  shipmaster,  John  de  Mare 
of  Jeen  proctor  of  the  said  ship  and  Denus  Petrus  their  fellow,  or  to 
Stephen  Durneford,  William  Cole  and  John  Sampson  attorneys  of  the 
said  merchants,  if  the  same  do  not  pertain  to  the  king  as  wreck  of  the 
sea,  so  that  the  merchants  have  no  matter  of  further  suit  against  them 
to  the  king  whereby  the  king  should  need  to  stretch  forth  his  hand 
against  them  ;  as  lately  at  the  suit  of  the  said  master  and  proctor, 
alleging  that  the  said  ship  was  lately  laded  in  the  port  of  Lescluse  in 
Flanders  with  wools,  cloths,  linen  web,  tin,  '  madre',  basins,  curtains 
and  other  merchandise  to  be  brought  to  the  city  of  Janue,  that  while 
at  sea  on  the  voyage  it  Avas  by  a  tempest  di'iven  to  the  port  of 
Plummuth  and  there  wrecked,  and  that  great  number  of  bales  and 
merchandise  therefrom  came  to  the  hands  of  the  mayor  and  bailiffs 
and  of  the  men  of  the  toAVTi  and  neighbouring  parts,  the  king  by 
letters  patent  under  his  privy  seal  commanded  the  mayor  and  bailiffs 
to  make  inquisition  into  Avhose  hands  those  goods  came,  and  to  cause 
such  as  the  said  master  and  proctor  might  by  marS;s,  metes  and  other 
true  evidences  prove  to  be  theirs  or  their  felloAvs'  laded  in  the  said 
ship  and  by  reason  of  the  shipwreck  taken  and  Avithheld  by  the  mayor 
and  bailiffs  and  by  other  men  of  the  toAvn  and  of  the  neighbouring  parts 
to  be  delivered  Avithout  delay  to  the  said  master  and  proctor  Avherever 
they  should  be  found,  paying  to  those  by  Avhom  the  same  AAcre  salved 
due  remuneration  for  their  labour  in  salAdng  the  same  ;  and  though 
the  mayor  and  bailiffs  received  the  king's  said  letters,  and  found 
divers  goods  of  the  said  merchants  from  the  said  ship,  they  have  until 
noAv  put  off  delivering  the  same,  to  the  hurt  and  impoverishment  of 
the  said  merchants,  wherefore  they  have  prayed  the  lang  for  remedy  ; 
and  the  king  Avould  succour  the  said  merchants  touching  their  suit, 
because  from  the  repairing  of  alien  merchants  and  the  bringing  of 
their  merchandise  into  the  realm  great  advantage  arises  to  the  king 
and  all  his  people. 

Feb.  6.  To  Richard  de  Wydeville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.      Order 

Westminster,  to  cause  Thomas  Fitz  Wauter  lord  of  Daventre  to  have  seisin  of  a 
cottage  in  Daventre  held  by  Thomas  de  Thurmaston  outlaAA^ed  for 
felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  the  said  cottage  has  been  in  his  hand  a  year  and  a 
day,  that  it  is  held  of  the  said  Thomas  Fitz  Wauter  by  the  service 
of  rendering  2d.  a  year  and  making  suit  at  his  court  of  Daventre  every 
three  Aveeks,  and  that  the  said  escheator  has  had  the  year  and  a  day 
and  the  waste  and  ought  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  same. 


41    EDWARD    TIT.  317 


1307.  Membrane.  26 — cant. 

Feb.  12.  To  Jolin  de  Tye  osclioator  in  ICont.  Order  to  remove  the  king's 
Westminster,  hand  and  not  to  meddle  furtlier  \\  itii  the  priory  of  Dovorrc,  which 
the  esclieator  lias  taken  into  Ihe  king's  hand,  it  is  said,  by  reason  of  the 
last  vacancy  of  the  archbishopric  of  Canterbury  \\hich  was  then  in  the 
king's  hand,  fully  restoring  to  the  now  prior  anything  by  him  taken 
of  the  said  priory  or  of  the  temporalities  and  possessions  thereof, 
according  to  the  king's  late  letters  patent  granting  that,  if  the  said 
priory  should  happen  to  be  void  during  the  vacancy  of  the  said  see, 
the  subprior  for  the  time  being  should  have  the  keeping  thereof  in 
spiritualities  and  temporalities  until  the  appointment  of  the  next 
archbishop. 

Feb.  22.  To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Suffolk  and  Essex.  Order, 
Westminster,  jf  hy  inquisition  or  otherwise  he  may  be  assured  that  the  earls  of 
Athole  or  of  Stafford  or  others  were  not  at  any  time  seised  of  nor  entered 
the  land  and  rent  hereinafter  mentioned,  nor  aliened  the  same,  and 
that  the  same  are  parcel  of  the  manor  of  Kentewell,  altogether  to 
remove  the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  therewith,  delivering 
any  issues  thereof  taken  to  William  Neve  of  Wetyngg  and  Joan  his 
wife  ;  as  the  said  William  and  Joan  before  Robert  de  Thorp  and  his 
fellows,  justices  of  assize  in  Suffolk,  by  an  assize  of  novel  disseisin  taken 
at  the  town  of  St.  Edmund  recovered  against  David  de  Strabolgi  earl  of 
Athole  their  seisin  of  the  said  manor,  12  acres  of  land  and  41.  of  rent 
therein  excepted,  as  appears  by  the  record  and  process  of  the  assize 
which  the  king  has  caused  to  come  before  him  in  chancery  ;  and 
after  at  the  suit  of  the  said  William  and  Joan,  alleging  that  by  writ 
tested  by  the  said  Robert  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  of  Suffolk  to 
cause  them  to  have  seisin  of  the  said  manor  except  the  land  and  rent 
above  mentioned,  and  that  the  sheriff  might  not  deliver  them  seisin 
thereof  for  that  the  said  manor,  Mhicli  is  held  in  chief,  was  by  the 
escheator  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  certain  alienations 
made  without  the  king's  licence  by  the  said  earl  and  others  after  the 
disseisin  aforesaid,  and  nevertheless  as  the  escheator  has  signified 
to  the  king  in  chancery  a  moiety  of  the  said  manor  was  in  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  Katherine  Gower  tenant  thei*eof  in  chief,  which 
was  entered  by  the  said  Joan  after  the  death  of  the  said  Katherine  her 
sister,  whose  heir  she  is,  without  having  livery  of  the  king,  and  praying 
that  the  king  would  cause  seisin  to  be  delivered  them  at  least  of  the 
other  moiety,  the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  keep  in  his  hand  the 
moiety  so  held  by  the  said  Katherine  until  it  should  be  sued  forth  of 
the  king's  hands  by  those  to  whom  it  pertained,  and  to  remove  his 
hand  and  not  meddle  further  with  the  other  moiety,  the  said  land 
and  rent  excepted  ;  and  subsequently,  of  his  favour  and  for  100s. 
by  the  said  William  and  Joan  paid,  the  king  by  letters  patent  pardoned 
them  their  trespass  in  entering  the  moiety  of  the  said  manor  and  rent 
as  aforesaid,  took  the  fealty  of  the  said  William,  respited  his  homage 
due  by  reason  of  issue  begotten  between  him  and  the  said  Joan,  and 
ordered  the  escheator  to  take  of  the  said  W^illiam  and  Joan  security 
for  payment  of  their  relief  at  the  exchequer,  and  to  cause  them  to 
have  seisin  of  the  said  moiety  and  rent ;  and  now  the  said  William 
and  Joan  have  informed  the  king  that,  though  the  said  rent  M-hich 
is  in  Essex  and  the  said  land  which  is  in  Suffolk  are  parcel  of  the  said 
manor  and  were  never  in  seisin  of  the  said  earl  of  Athole,  the  said 
earl  of  Stafford  or  of  the  others,  and  they  nor  any  of    them  never 


318 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1367. 


Membrane  26 — cont. 


entered  or  aliened  the  same,  by  colour  of  the  said  alienation  the 
escheator  is  keeping  in  the  king's  hand  as  well  the  moiety  of  the  said 
rent  whereof  the  king  has  commanded  livery  to  be  given  as  the  other 
moiety  together  with  the  said  land,  refusing  to  deliver  the  same  to 
the  said  William  and  Joan,  wherefore  they  have  prayed  the  king  for 
Hvery  thereof. 

Feb.  16.  To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Essex  and  Hertfordshire.  Order 
Westminster,  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of  Pelham  Pomeux  and  Hider- 
sham  CO.  Hertford  and  divers  other  manors  and  lands  in  Essex  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Alice  who  was  wife  of  Hugh  le 
Gros,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  divers  inquisitions,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Alice 
at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  those  counties  in  chief  nor  of  any  other 
in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  with  her  said  husband  (likewise 
deceased)  held  the  said  manors  and  lands  of  the  gift  of  Robert  de 
Morlay  knight,  John  Quynyld  and  others  to  the  said  Hugh  and  Alice 
and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others 
than  the  king. 


Feb.  16. 

Westminster. 


To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  and  to  the  chamberlains.  Order  to 
cause  payment  of  a  fee  of  1,000  marks  yearly  to  be  made  to  Ralph  earl 
of  Stafford,  or  due  satisfaction  or  assignment  touching  the  same  to  be 
given  him  in  other  things  whereby  he  may  most  speedily  be  contented  ; 
as  by  letters  patent  the  king  granted  the  said  earl  that  sum  to  be 
taken  every  year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  the 
customs  in  the  ports  of  London  and  St.  Botulph  by  the  hands  of  the 
collectors  during  his  life,  or  until  provision  sliall  be  made  him  for  life 
of  1,000  marks  a  year  of  land  or  rent,  for  abiding  during  his  life  with 
the  king  in  times  of  war  and  of  peace  with  a  hundred  men  at 
arms,  provided  nevertheless  that  the  said  earl  shall  not  abide  in  the 
retinue  of  any  other  but  the  king  ;  and  the  king  has  reserved  all 
customs  and  subsidies  in  the  said  ports  for  the  expenses  which 
must  needs  be  incurred  at  this  time  for  his  household. 

[Fcedera.'] 


Jan.  26.  To  Alan  de  Bukeshull  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London,  or  to  his 
Westminster,  lieutenant.  Order  to  set  free  from  the  prison  in  the  Tower  without 
delay  Rigald  Tyghale,  Roger  de  Uppeham  and  Andrew  atte  Pire 
called  Bruett,  who  were  delivered  to  him  at  the  king's  command  by 
John  de  la  Lee  steward  of  the  household  to  be  there  kept  in  safe 
custody.  By  K.  on  the  information  of  the  said  steward. 


Jan.  30. 

Westminster. 


To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  stay 
their  demand  for  lOZ.  made  by  exchequer  summons  upon  Richard  de 
Craneby  *  clerk,  lately  sent  upon  the  king's  service  to  the  court  of 
Rome  for  certain  business  of  the  king,  who  was  paid  at  the  receipt 
of  the  exchequer  101.  for  his  wages,  and  after  furthering  the  business 
wherewith  the  king  charged  him  in  the  court  of  France  was  slain  as  he 
journeyed  towards  the  court  of  Rome,  thereof  discharging  the  said 
Richard,  his  heirs  and  executors.  By  C. 

*  In  the  margin  Graneby. 


41  EDWARD  IIT. 


310 


1'3G7.  Membrane  25. 

Feb.  20.  To  the  mayor  <and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull. 
Westminster.  Order  not  to  suffer  any  ships  of  foreign  parts  to  be  laded  and  fieighted 
with  \\()()1  or  oilier  merchandise  to  be  tak(>n  over  sea  from  that  ])ort 
until  (he  ships  of  the  said  town,  A\hich  shall  bo  in  port  and  seaworthy, 
be  tliercwith  charged  and  reasonably  but  not  excessively  freighted, 
and  then  other  ships  without  let ;  as  it  has  newly  come  to  the  king's 
ears  how  the  shipping  of  that  town  is  subject  to  great  detriment,  and 
the  sailors  and  seamen  thereof  are  unemployed,  for  that  foreign 
ships  ofttimes  coming  to  the  said  port  are  more  speedily  and  often 
laded  and  freighted  for  foreign  parts  than  ships  of  the  town,  which 
the  king  cannot  nor  ought  not  to  endure.  By  C. 

I 

Feb.  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lancaster.     Order  to  cause  a  messuage  and  26 

Westminster,  acres  of  land  of  John  son  of  Richard  de  Styholm  in  Kynerdale  to  be 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  and  delivered  to  the  said  John  to  hold  as 
before  the  taking  thereof  into  the  king's  hand ;  as  lately  at  the  suit  of 
the  said  John,  alleging  that  Richard  de  Sutton  the  escheator  seized 
the  premises  into  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  his  pretended  outlawry 
for  an  alleged  felony,  though  the  said  John  never  committed  a  felony 
nor  Avas  outlawed,  and  that  after  by  colour  of  an  inquisition  taken 
before  the  sheriff  concerning  the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste 
thereof,  whereby  it  was  found  that  the  premises  were  in  the  king's 
hand  for  a  year  and  a  day,  were  held  of  Thomas  de  Molyneux  and 
Joan  his  ^ife,  and  that  the  said  escheator  had  the  year  and  a  day 
and  the  waste  and  ought  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  same,  the 
premises  were  delivered  as  an  escheat  to  the  said  Thomas  and  Joan, 
to  his  hurt  and  disherison,  and  praying  for  remedy  touching  the 
restitution  thereof  since,  as  well  by  certificate  of  John  Knyvet  chief 
justice  for  holding  pleas  before  the  king  sent  into  chancery  as  by 
inquisition  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  the  escheator,  it  is  found 
that  the  said  John  son  of  Richard  is  not  outlawed,  the  king  ordered 
the  sheriff  to  give  notice  to  the  said  Thomas  and  Joan  to  be  before  the 
king  in  chancery  at  a  set  day  now  past  to  shew  cause  wherefore 
the  premises  ought  not  to  be  seized  into  the  king's  hand  and  restored 
to  John  son  of  Richard,  and  to  do  and  receive  further  what  the  court 
should  determine  ;  and  they,  appearing  on  the  said  day  by  Thomas 
de  Thelwall  and  Robert  de  Faryngton  their  attorneys,  said  nothing 
to  the  effect  that  restitution  ought  not  to  be  made,  wherefore  it  was 
determined  that  the  premises  should  be  restored  as  aforesaid. 


Feb.  4. 

Westminster. 


To  John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.  Order  to  take 
the  fealty  of  Thomas  de  Loueden  according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule 
enclosed,  and  to  deliver  to  the  said  Thomas  and  to  Katherine  his  wife, 
daughter  and  heir  of  John  de  Warmeston  of  Grendon,  the  lands  which 
her  said  father  held  of  the  heirs  of  the  earl  of  Hereford  and  the  earl 
of  Pembroke,  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  her  nonage  ;  as  the  said 
John  held  certain  lands  by  knight  service  as  well  of  the  heir  of 
Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford  tenant  in  chief  as  of  the  heir 
of  LaA^rence  de  Hastyngs  earl  of  Pembroke  tenant  in  chief,  both 
minors  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  the  said  Katherine,  whom  the 
said  Thomas  has  taken  to  wife  by  the  king's  licence,  proved  her  age 
before  William  de  Otteford  escheator  in  the  said  county. 


320 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1367. 

Feb.  20. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  12. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  23. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  26. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  24. 

To  the  treasurer  and  to  the  barons  and  the  chamberlains  of  the 
exchequer  of  Ireland.  Order  of  the  treasury  of  Ireland  to  pay  to 
John  Haukyn  the  king's  Serjeant  at  arms,  in  the  retinue  of  Lionel 
duke  of  Clarence  the  king's  son  and  lieutenant  in  Ireland,  2s.  a  day 
for  his  wages  for  the  time  that  he  abode  in  Ireland  on  the  king's 
service  until  the  final  departure  of  the  said  duke  to  England, 
according  to  the  king's  former  commands  to  them  addressed, 
taking    the  said  John's  acquittance. 

To  John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Kent.  Order  to  cause  John  son  and 
heir  of  Ralph  de  Frenyngham  tenant  in  chief  to  have  seisin  of  the 
lands  of  his  said  father  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  ;  as 
the  said  John  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king 
has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [27269.] 

To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Norffolk.  Order  to  deliver 
to  Adam  son  of  Adam  de  Clyfton  the  elder  the  hundred  of  Frethe- 
brigge  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since  his  father's  death  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
the  said  Adam  the  elder  at  his  death  held  the  said  hundred  for  his 
life  in  chief  by  knight  service  of  the  gift  of  John  de  Merlee,  Thomas 
parson  of  Stanfeld,  Robert  parson  of  Cranous,  William  de  Keteryngham 
parson  of  a  mediety  of  Hedersete,  Thomas  Wotte  and  Thomas  de 
Babynglee  made  with  the  king's  licence,  with  remainder  to  Adam 
the  son  and  the  heirs  riiale  of  his  body  ;  and  the  king  has  taken 
his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [27280.] 

To  the  sheriff  of  Northumberland.  Order  to  cause  as  well  40  marks 
for  the  last  four  years  as  10  marks  a  year  henceforward  to  be  levied 
of  the  lands  committed  in  ward  to  Edward  de  Letham  for  the  main- 
tenance of  John  son  and  heir  of  Robert  de  Maners  tenant  in  chief, 
a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  to  be  delivered  to  the  said  heir  ; 
as  on  20  November  in  the  36th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  letters 
patent  committed  to  the  said  Edward  the  \^ardship  of  one  carucate 
of  land  in  Etale  held  in  chief  by  Alina  who  was  wife  of  the  said  Robert 
for  her  life  of  the  said  heir's  heritage,  one  carucate  in  the  same  town, 
4.S.  of  rent  in  Tossam  and  a  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Etale  which  the 
said  Alina  held  in  dower,  all  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  her  death 
and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  heir,  to  hold  with  the  issues 
thereof  taken  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  heir,  rendering  lOZ.  a 
year  at  the  exchequer,  and  finding  the  heir  his  maintenance  ;  and 
after  at  suit  of  the  said  John,  alleging  that  the  said  Edward  would 
find  him  no  maintenance  since  the  said  Alina's  death,  and  praying 
for  remedy,  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  give  the  said  Edward  notice 
to  be  before  the  king  in  chancery  in  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary  last 
to  shew  cause  wherefore  he  ought  not  to  content  the  said  heir  for  such 
maintenance  and  find  him  the  same  thenceforth  until  his  lawful  age, 
and  to  do  and  receive  further  Avhat  the  court  should  determine  ;  and 
the  said  Edward,  being  warned  by  the  sheriff  as  he  returned,  came 
not  in  chancery  at  that  day,  and  the  king's  will  is  that  the  said  heir 
shall  have  40  marks  for  his  maintenance  during  the  past  four  years 
and  10  marks  every  year  henceforth  until  his  lawful  age,  for  that  the 
king  at  another  time  committed  to  the  said  Edward  the  wardship  of 
other  lands  of  liis  heritage  to  the  value  of  40  moi'ks  a  year.       By  C. 


41  EDWARD  III. 


321 


Feb.  4. 
Westminster. 

Feb.  8. 

Westniinstor. 

Feb.  22. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  26. 

Westminster. 


I^fi7.  Membrane  24 — cont. 

Feb.   I.  To  Rielinrd  de  Wydevylle  esoheator  in  Norlianiptonshire.     Order 

Windsor.  fo  oaiisc  Ricliard,  son  of  Tlionias  CJliandxM-noiin  and  cousin  and  heir  of 
Elizabeth  wlio  was  wife  of  Robert  de  Herlc,  to  liave  seisin  of  tlie 
lands  which  the  said  Robert  at  his  death  held  by  tlie  courtesy  of 
England  of  the  heritage  of  the  said  Ricliard,  and  wliich  by  his  death 
are  taken  into  the  king's  hand  ;  as  the  said  Richard  has  proved  l\is 
age  before  John  de  Bekynton  escheator  in  Somerset,  and  tlic  king 
has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Leycester  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
instead  of  Richard  de  Hotoft,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Order  to  the  slieriff  of  Devon  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 
of  Stephen  Potell,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

To  William  de  Chirchehull  and  his  fellows,  guardians  of  the 
temporalities  of  the  bishopric  of  Cicestre  which  in  in  the  king's  hand. 
Order  to  deliver  200/.  of  the  issues  of  the  said  temporalities  to  William 
de  Thrisseford  parson  of  St.  Michael  in  Crokedlane  London  the 
bisliop's  attorney  for  his  expenses  ;  as  William  bishop  of  Cicestre  is 
coming  from  the  court  of  Rome  to  the  king  in  England  by  his 
command.  By  K. 

To  John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.  Order  to  deliver 
to  William,  brother  of  John  son  of  John  de  Molyns,  140  acres  of  land, 
80  acres  of  wood,  and  4  marks  of  rent  in  Fulmere  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Egidia  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Molyns, 
together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken,  but  not  to  meddle  further  with 
divers  other  lands  likewise  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  delivering  up 
any  issues  of  these  last  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  divers 
inquisitions,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  Egidia  at  her  death  by 
fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his  licence  held  the  premises  in 
Fulmere,  which  are  held  of  the  king,  for  her  life  as  jointly  enfeoffed 
witli  her  said  husband  (likewise  deceased),  with  remainder  to  John 
son  of  the  said  John  de  Molyns  and  Egidia  and  to  the  lieirs  male  of 
his  body,  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  said  William  and 
the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  that  Jolin  the  son  died  without  an  heir 
male  of  liis  body,  whereby  the  premises  ought  by  virtue  of  the  said  fine 
to  remain  to  the  said  William,  and  that  the  said  Egidia  at  her  death 
held  in  dower  and  for  life  divers  other  lands  not  held  of  the  king, 
with  reversion  to  the  said  W^illiam  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  his 
homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [27282.] 

Feb.  26.  To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Wyltes.  Order  not  to  meddle 
Westminster,  further  with  the  manor  of  la  Box  and  a  third  part  of  the  manors  of 
la  Lee  and  Gore  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Egidia 
who  was  wife  of  John  de  Molyns,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  the  said  Egidia  at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in 
chief  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  manor  of  la  Box  for  life 
as  jointly  enfeoffed  with  her  said  husband  (likewise  deceased),  and 
the  said  third  part  in  dower  ;  and  that  the  premises  are  not  held  of 
the  king. 

E  21 


322  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1367.  Membrane  23. 

March  14,  To  the  mayor  and  baihffs  of  the  town  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull  and 
Westminster,  the  collectors  of  customs  there.  Order  to  suffer  all  ships  of  aliens 
in  that  port  to  be  laded  with  wool  and  merchandise  whatsoever,  and 
freely  without  let  to  take  the  same  over  sea  to  Calais  and  not 
elsewhere,  first  paying  the  customs  thereupon  due,  if  the  owners  and 
masters  of  native  ships  shall  refuse  to  freight  their  ships  for  the 
i  purpose  at  a  reasonable  rate  {competenti  joro),  the  king's  command 

to  the  contrary  notwithstanding  ;  as  lately,  upon  information  that 
the  shipping  of  the  said  town  was  subject  to  great  detriment  for  that 
alien  ships  coming  often  to  the  port  were  more  speedily  laded  and 
freighted  as  aforesaid  for  foreign  parts  than  ships  of  the  town,  the 
king  commanded  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  and  the  collectors  to  suffer 
no  ships  of  foreign  parts  to  be  so  laded  and  freighted  until  the  ships 
of  the  town  in  the  said  port,  being  seaworthy,  were  charged  and 
reasonably  and  not  excessively  freighted  ;  and  now  complaint  is  made 
to  the  king  on  behalf  of  several  merchants  native  and  alien,  she\ving 
that  the  masters  and  seamen  of  ships  of  the  said  town  refuse  so  to  lade 
their  ships  save  [for]  excessive  freights,  far  greater  than  used  to  be 
before  the  king's  said  command  or  than  masters  of  alien  ships 
touching  at  the  port  have  taken  and  are  offering  to  take,  and  that  so 
by  reason  of  the  dearness  of  the  freight  demanded  of  them  their  wool 
and  other  merchandise  he  unladed  in  the  port,  to  their  hurt  and 
impoverishment  and  to  the  damage  of  their  goods,  and  praying  for 
remedy  ;  and  it  was  not  nor  is  it  the  king's  intent  that  by  reason  of 
his  said  command  native  ships  should  to  the  hurt  of  the  merchants 
be  set  at  a  higher  freight  than  reasonably  ought  to  be  at  the  discretion 
of  merchants  native  and  alien,  nor  that  merchants  native  or  alien  should 
be  hindered  from  lading  and  freighting  their  wool  or  merchandise  in 
alien  ships  if  the  owners  and  masters  of  native  ships  will  not  set  them 
at  a  reasonable  freight.  By  C. 

Feb.  8.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  to  deHver  to  Ralph  Spigurnel 

Westminster,  the  king's  admiral,  to  deal  with  according  to  maritime  law,  the  six 
tuns  of  wine  and  6L  of  silver  in  coined  money  of  Andrew  Baker 
merchant  in  a  ship  of  John  Malpas  of  Waterford  by  the  sheriffs 
arrested  by  reason  of  their  suspicion  that  the  said  Andrew  was  aiding 
and  abetting  John  Nichol  to  slay  Wilham  Daniel  merchant  of 
Pembroch  at  sea  off  the  town  of  Lusshebon  in  Spain.  By  C. 

March  18.  To  Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Order  to  deliver 
Gravesend.  to  Ralph  de  Cromwell  and  Maud  his  wife  the  castle  and  manor  of 
Tateshale  with  appurtenances  in  Tateshale,  Thorp  by  Tateshale, 
Little  Stretton,  Marton  by  Thorneton  and  in  the  town  of  St.  Botolph, 
and  the  manor  of  Tumby,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  John  de  Kirketon  knight,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken, 
but  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Kirkeby  upon  Bayn  with 
appurtenances  in  Kirkby,  Tateshale  and  Thorp  by  Tateshale,  and 
divers  other  lands  in  Roughton,  Wodehall,  Langton  by  Thornton, 
Trusthorp,  Sutton  by  Markeby,  Malteby  by  Strubby  and  Wynthorp 
likewise  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  dehvering  up  any  issues  of  these 
last  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  the  said  John  at  his  death  held  for  hfe  the  said  castle 
and  manor  of  Tateshale  with  their  appurtenances  and  the  said  manor 
of  Kirkeby  with  its  appurtenances  by  demise  of  Thomas  de  Wyke 


41  EDWARD  [TT. 


323 


1307. 


Membrane  23 — cont. 


Feb.  1. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  3. 
Westminster. 


March  18. 
Gravesend. 


March  18. 
Gravesend. 


clerk,  Thomas  de  Kirkoby  parson  of  Tatcshale,  Henry  Asty,  John 
Wyko  and  Thomas  Slollo,  and  the  said  manor  of  Tumby  and  land  in 
Roughton  etc.  by  demise  of  Ralph  de  Cromwell  and  Maud  bis  wife 
made  by  the  king's  hcence,  with  reversion  to  the  said  Ralph  and 
IVraud  and  tlie  heirs  of  the  said  Maud,  and  tjiat  tlie  castle  and  manor 
of  TatesliaJe  and  the  manor  of  Tumby  are  held  in  chief  by  knight 
service,  the  said  manor  of  Kirkeby  and  all  other  the  lands  above 
meijiioned  of  others  than  the  king;  and  the  king  has  taken  tbo 
homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  Ralph,  and  has  rendered  to  the  said 
Ralph  and  Maud  the  castle  and  manors  held  in  chief.  By  p.s.  [27301.] 

To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  deliver  to  Ralph  Spigurnel 
the  king's  admiral,  to  deal  with  according  to  maritime  law,  John 
Nichol  by  them  taken  and  imprisoned  in  Neugate  prison  for  suspicion 
of  the  death  of  William  Danyel  merchant  of  Pembroke,  lately  slain 
it  is  said  by  him  at  sea  off  the  town  of  Lusshebon  in  Spain,  with  all 
his  goods  and  property,  also  the  ship  of  John  Maupas  merchant  by  them 
arrested  for  the  same  cause  with  his  goods  and  property  therein  at 
the  time  of  the  arrest.  By  C. 

To  Reynold  de  Sholdham  searcher  of  forfeitures  in  the  port  of 
London.  Order  to  cause  the  goods  and  chattels  by  him  arrested  in 
a  ship  of  Heygen  van  Dumburgh  in  the  said  port,  because  of  a 
suspicion  of  one  letter  therein  found,  to  be  without  delay  dearrested 
and  delivered  to  John  Mot  of  Fobbyng  to  make  his  advantage  thereof  ; 
as  by  examination  made  by  order  of  tlie  council  in  presence  of  the 
searcher  by  John  Louekyn  mayor  of  London,  it  is  found  that  the 
said  goods,  claimed  by  the  said  John  Mot,  are  his  and  none  other's, 
that  if  lost  at  sea  the  loss  would  have  fallen  upon  him,  and  that  none 
other  but  he  had  the  value  of  one  penny  or  one  halfpenny  therein, 
as  the  said  mayor  has  certified  in  chancery. 

To  Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Order  not  to 
meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Sixhill  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  death  of  John  de  Kyrketon  knight,  delivering  to  Ralph 
Daubeneye  clerk  and  Thomas  parson  of  Tateshale  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  the  said  John  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief 
in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  manor  for  life  jointly  with 
the  said  Ralph  and  Thomas  of  the  demise  of  Roger  la  Warre  knight 
to  them  made,  and  that  the  same  is  held  of  another  than  the  king. 

To  the  same.  Order  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of 
Kyrketon  in  Holand  and  a  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Castelcarleton 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  de  ICirketon  knight, 
delivering  to  Isabel  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John 
at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  tha^t  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of 
fee,  but  held  the  said  manor  of  Kyrketon  for  life  jointly  with  the 
said  Isabel  of  the  demise  of  Ralph  Daubeneye  parson  of  Broughton 
and  Thomas  parson  of  Tateshale,  and  the  said  third  part  as  of  the 
doA^er  of  the  said  Isabel  after  the  death  of  George  de  Meryet  knight 
sometime  her  husband,  and  that  the  said  third  part  is  held  in  chief, 
the  manor  of  Kyrketon  of  another  than  the  king. 


324 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1367. 
April  9. 

Sheppey. 


April  12. 

Westminster. 


April  26. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  23 — cont. 

To  Philip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.  Order  not 
to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Badmynton,  if  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  death  of  Thomas  le  Botiller,  delivering 
up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Thomas  at  his  death  held  no 
lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service, 
but  held  the  said  manor  of  William  le  Botiller  baron  of  Wemme  by 
the  service  of  Id.  a  year,  and  that  Alan  le  Botil|^r  son  of  the  said 
Thomas  is  his  next  heir,  and  of  the  age  of  24  years. 

To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  in  consideration  of  the  matters 
hereinafter  recited,  to  cause  what  slaould  be  done  according  to  law 
and  the  custom  of  the  city  of  London  to  be  done  towards  the  delivery 
of  Nicholas  Botiller  '  spicer '  of  Yorkshire  from  Neugate  prison ;  as  on 
behalf  of  the  said  Nicholas  it  is  shewn  the  king  that  by  his  own  proper 
recognisance  he  was  before  the  sheriffs  condemned  in  the  court  of 
'  Gihalde  '  London  in  19/.  6s.  8d.  received  as  a  loan  from  Lawrence 
Lepere  of  Wymundham,  and  was  committed  to  the  said  prison  and 
there  detained,  and  that  they  have  deferred  to  deliver  him  thence, 
to  his  hurt  and  the  peril  of  his  life,  although  the  said  Lawrence  going 
on  pilgrimage  to  St.  Thomas  the  Martyr  died  at  Canterbury,  and  in 
his  testament  released  the  said  sum  to  the  said  Nicholas,  wherefore 
he  has  prayed  for  remedy  ;  and  the  ^\dll  being  produced  in  chancery, 
proved  before  the  official  of  the  archdeacon  of  Canterbury  and 
witnessed  by  the  seal  of  his  office,  it  is  clear  that  the  said  Lawrence 
did  so  release  that  sum,  as  William  Vrenysse  his  executor  has 
acknowledged  in  chancery. 

To  the  sheriffs  of  London  for  the  time  being.  Order  to  keep  in  the 
king's  hand  two  thirds  of  a  rent  of  100  marks  payable  at  Michaelmas 
and  Easter  by  even  portions,  namely  50/.  of  Queenhythe  of  the  said 
city  and  25  marks  of  the  farm  of  the  city  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriffs, 
and  to  pay  to  Margaret  ^^'ho  was  wife  of  John  de  Pulteneye  the  arrears 
of  one  third  for  Easter  term  last,  and  the  said  third  part  henceforward 
every  year  during  her  life,  taking  her  acquittance  ;  as  lately  on  the 
finding  of  an  inquisition,  taken  after  the  death  of  John  de  Pulteneye, 
that  the  said  John  at  his  death  held  the  rent  aforesaid  given  by  the 
king  to  him  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  and  that  William  his  son 
and  heir  Avas  then  \Aithin  age,  the  king  ordered  the  then  sheriffs  to 
cause  one  third  thereof  to  be  paid  to  the  said  Margaret  every  year 
for  her  dower,  and  the  residue  to  be  paid  her  as  next  of  kin  to  the 
said  heir  to  his  use  :    and  now  the  said  William  is  dead. 


Membrane  22. 

April  26.  To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Essex.  Order  to  take  the 
Westminster,  fealty  of  Thomas  son  and  heir  of  Andrew  de  Walden  tenant  in  chief 
according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  cause  him  to 
have  seisin  of  the  lands  of  his  said  father  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
his  death  ;  as  the  said  Thomas  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator, 
and  the  king  has  respited  his  homage  until  Whitsunday  next. 

May  3.  To   Leo    de    Perton   escheator   in   Worcestershire.     Order   not   to 

Westminster,  meddle   further   with   the   manors   of   Grafton   by   Bremesgrave   and 

Upton  Fitz  Waryn  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  de 


41    EDWARD    111.  325 


1867.  Membrane  22 — cont. 

Haxtanir,  delivering  to  Maud  liis  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as 
the  king  has  learned  by  iiujuisition,  taken  by  tlie  escheator,  that  tlie 
said  John  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  nor  of  any 
other  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  held  the  said  manors 
jointly  \\  ith  the  said  Maud  of  the  gift  of  Hugh  White  chaplain  to  them 
and  tlie  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  tlian 
the  king. 

May  5.  To  John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Surrey.     Order  not  to  meddle  further 

Wostniinster.  with  the  manor  of  Ymeworth  and  a  moiety  of  the  hundred  of 
Emelbrigge  thereto  pertaining  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  John  de  Brewes  knight,  delivering  to  Beatrice  who  was  wife  of 
Thomas  de  Brewes  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  John  de  Brewes  at  his 
death  held  in  fee  tail  the  said  manor  and  moiety  in  chief  as  parcel  of 
the  king's  town  of  Kyngeston  by  the  service  of  rendering  yearly  to  the 
king's  men  of  that  town  in  aid  of  their  farm  GI5.  for  the  said  manor 
and  lis.  6(1.  for  the  moiety  of  the  said  hundred,  of  the  gift  of  the  said 
Thomas  and  Beatrice  made  with  the  king's  licence  to  the  said  John 
and  Elizabeth  his  wife  (likewise  deceased)  and  to  the  heirs  male  of 
their  bodies,  with  reversion  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  said  Thomas 
and  Beatrice  and  to  their  heirs,  and  that  the  said  John  and  Elizabeth 
are  dead  without  an  heir  male  of  their  bodies,  wherefore  the  premises 
ought  by  virtue  of  the  said  gift  to  revert  to  the  said  Beatrice  and 
her  heirs. 

May  6.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Thomas  de  Curthuhir,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Membrane  21. 

May  4.  To  Bartholomew  de  Burgherssh  and  his  fellows,  arrayers,  triers, 

Westminster,  assessors  and  apportioners  of  men  at  arms,  armed  men  and  archers 
in  Kent.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  the  barons  of  the  Cinque  Ports 
and  of  others  avowing  themselves  of  the  liberty  of  the  same  and 
willing  to  enjoy  the  liberty  thereof,  who  by  reason  of  the  lands,  goods 
and  chattels  which  they  have  without  the  said  liberty  taxable  towards 
the  maintenance  of  the  shipping  of  the  Cinque  Ports  and  towards 
the  service  thereof  contribute  to  the  maintenance  and  performance 
of  the  said  shipping  and  service,  not  to  compel  them  by  virtue 
of  the  king's  commission  nor  distrain  them  to  find  any  men  at 
arms,  armed  men  and  archers  or  to  contribute  with  the  commons 
of  the  county  to  the  expenses  of  such  men,  suffering  them  to  be 
thereof  quit,  and  not  troubling  them  contrary  to  the  charter  of  King 
Edward  I  and  to  the  king's  confirmation  thereof  ;  as  the  said  king, 
in  consideration  that  the  shipping  of  the  Cinque  Ports  might  not  be 
maintained  without  great  cost  and  expense,  in  order  that  it  might 
not  thereafter  fail  or  perish,  granted  by  letters  patent,  which  the  king 
has  confirmed,  that  all  they  of  the  Cinque  Ports  and  others  whatsoever 
avowing  themselves  of  the  liberty  thereof  and  willing  to  enjoy  the  same 
should  contribute,  everyone  according  to  his  means,  towards  doing 
the  said  king's  service  and  the  service  of  his  heirs  with  their  ships 
when  by  the  said  king  or  his  heirs  commanded  ;  and  after,  in  order 
tha,t  the  barons  of  the  said  ports  might  more  conveniently  perform 
such  service  at  time  of  need,  the  king  by  counsel  of  the  prelates,  earls. 


326  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1367,  •  Membrane  21 — cont. 

barons  and  commons  in  the  parliament  liolden  at  York  in  the  second 
year  of  his  reign  granted  to  the  said  barons  that  all  they  of  the  said 
ports  and  others  whatsoever  avowing  themselves  of  the  liberty 
thereof  and  wilhng  to  enjoy  the  same  should  contribute  of  all  their 
goods  and  chattels  as  well  without  as  within  the  said  liberty  to  the 
maintenance  and  performance  of  the  said  shipping  and  services,  and 
should  by  the  mayors  and  jurats  of  the  said  ports  and  also  by  the 
constable  of  Dovorre  castle  be  compelled  thereto  if  need  be,  and  that 
the  goods  and  chattels  of  the  said  barons  and  others,  whether  without 
or  within  the  said  liberty,  which  are  taxed  towards  such  maintenance 
and  performance  should  not  be  taxed  towards  tallages  or  other 
charges  whatsoever  with  the  goods  and  chattels  of  jnen  without ; 
and  the  king  by  charter  has  confirmed  that  charter,  and  has  granted 
furthermore  to  the  said  barons  that  they,  their  heirs  and  successors 
may  fully  use  and  enjoy  the  liberties  in  the  said  charter  contained  and 
every  of  them  without  disturbance  of  the  king  or  his  heirs,  their  justices, 
escheators,  sheriffs,  bailiffs  or  minsters  whatsoever,  though  heretofore 
they  did  not  use  any  of  the  same ;  and  now  on  behalf  of  the  said  barons 
the  king  has  learned  that,  though  they  and  others  of  the  said 
liberty  contributing  as  aforesaid  by  reason  of  their  lands,  goods  and 
chattels  within  or  without  the  said  liberty  from  the  time  of  the  said 
charter  and  confirmation  have  not  found  nor  been  compelled  to  find 
any  men  at  arms,  armed  men  or  archers,  or  any  contribution  thereto, 
'  or  any  other  charge  save  the  shipping  and  services  aforesaid,  but 

have  been  thereof  quit  in  all  time  past,  the  said  arrayers  are  causing 
them  so  contributing  unlawfully  to  be  compelled  and  distrained, 
by  reason  of  their  lands,  goods  and  chattels  without  the  said  liberty 
which  are  taxable  towards  the  shipping  and  services  aforesaid,  to 
find  men  at  arms,' armed  men  and  archers,  and  to  make  contribution 
with  the  commons  of  the  county  towards  the  expenses  of  such  men, 
therefore  they  have  prayed  for  remedy. 

The  like  to  Richard  earl  of  Arundell  and  his  fellows,  arrayers  etc. 
in  Sussex. 

Membrane  20. 

May  15.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  cause 
Westminster.  Thomas  de  Helpeston  late  sheriff  of  Essex  and  Hertford  to  be  dis- 
charged at  the  exchequer  of  30/.  of  the  arrears  of  his  account  of  the 
issues  of  those  counties  for  the  time  he  was  sheriff,  so  that  he  answer 
for  the  residue  of  such  arrears ;  as  the  king  of  his  favour  has 
pardoned  him  30Z.  thereof.  By  K. 

To  the"  justiciary,  the  chancellor  and  the  treasurer  of  Ireland. 
Order  to  cause  all  the  lands  of  Thomas  de  Ros  of  Hamelac  and 
Beatrice  his  wife  in  Ireland,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of 
the  subsidy  for  defence  of  Ireland  during  a  set  time  against  the  Irish 
the  king's  enemies,  to  be  delivered  to  the  said  Thomas  and  Beatrice 
to  hold  as  before  they  were  so  taken  ;  as  willing  to  show  them 
special  favour  the  king  has  granted  them  to  have  their  said  lands  as 
aforesaid.  By  K.  and  C. 

The  following  have  the  like  writs  concerning  their  lands  in  Ireland  : 
Roger  de  Clifford. 
William  la  Zouche  of  Haryngworth. 


41  EDWARD  III.  327 


1307.  Membrane  20 — cont. 

May  25.  To  Jolm  Knyvet  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  liold  pleas 
Wostininstor.  before  the  king.  Order  to  stay  altogetlier  a  plea  pending  before  thcni 
between  the  king  and  the  prior  of  Bodmin  touching  the  said  prior's 
refusal  to  admit  Walter  Chaunterle  to  have  a  maintenance  in  that 
priory  ;  as  the  prior  has  admitted  him  thereto  by  vii'tuc  of  the  king's 
command,  as  the  said  Walter  has  acknowledged  in  chancery.        By  C. 

May  20.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  of  Ireland.  Order 
Westminster,  to  admit  the  proof  tendered  by  the  prior  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John 
of  Jerusalem  in  Ireland  in  a  plea  pending  before  them  between  the 
king  and  the  said  prior,  to  cause  inquisition  to  bo  made  touching  the 
truth  thereof  by  the  men  of  the  county  wherein  is  the  manor  of 
Leixlip  {Saltus  Salamonis)  in  presence  of  the  said  prior  if  he  will 
attend,  and  to  do  what  by  law  ought  further  to  be  done 
touching  debate  of  the  business  as  well  for  the  king  as  for  the  prior, 
not  charging  the  prior  over  and  above  the  value  of  the  said  manor 
which  shall  thereby  be  found  for  time  past  since  the  date  of  the 
king's  charter  contrary  to  the  form  thereof  ;  as  on  19  June  in  the 
12th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  gave  to  brother  Roger  Utlagh  then 
prior  of  the  said  Hospital  and  to  the  brethren  thereof  the  said  manor, 
\A'hich  as  he  learned  was  worth  60Z.  a  year,  to  hold  of  the  king  and  his 
heirs  to  them  and  their  successors  at  fee  farm,  rendering  501.  a  year 
at  the  exchequer  of  Dublin  at  Micliaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions, 
saving  always  to  the  king  the  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  thereto 
belonging,  the  statute  of  mortmain  or  other  statute  or  ordinance 
A\'hatsoever  to  tlie  contrary  notwithstanding  ;  and  for  that  the  said 
prior  promised  to  pay  tlie  king  200^.  in  aid  of  the  exjienses  the  king 
must  needs  incur  in  regard  to  his  passage  to  parts  over  sea,  for  lOOl. 
of  tlie  said  sum  the  king  gave  and  remised  to  the  prior  and  brethren 
101.  yearly  of  the  said  601.,  willing  that  for  the  other  lOOZ.  allowance 
should  be  made  them  of  the  said  farm  of  501.  in  the  first  two  years 
after  he  should  obtain  possession  of  the  said  manor,  provided 
always  that  if  by  extent  and  by  information  by  accounts  thereof 
rendered  the  said  manor  should  be  found  of  greater  value  over  and 
above  601.  a  year,  the  prior  and  brethren  and  their  successors  should 
be  bound  to  pay  every  year  at  the  exchequer  with  the  said  501.  so 
much  as  it  was  worth  over  and  above  QOL,  as  in  the  king's  letters 
patent  is  contained  ;  and  after  at  the  suit  of  the  now  prior,  alleging 
that  the  treasurer  and  the  barons,  not  regarding  the  king's  said  gifts 
and  remissions,  have  contrary  to  the  king's  letters  patent  distrained  him 
to  answer  for  a  great  sum  over  and  above  the  true  value  of  the  said  manor, 
and  that  in  the  said  plea  pleading  has  proceeded  to  judgment,  and 
judgment  is  in  suspense  by  reason  of  difficulty,  the  king  commanded 
the  treasurer  and  the  barons  to  send  the  record  and  process  of  the 
plea  under  the  seal  used  in  Ireland  mto  the  chancery  of  England  for 
debate  ;  and  it  is  found  by  the  tenor  thereof  that  they  summoned 
the  now  j)rior  before  them  at  the  said  exchequer  to  render  account 
of  the  farm  of  the  said  manor  from  the  time  that  account  was  due, 
and  to  content  the  king  of  what  is  due  to  him  by  an  extent  made 
before  Lionel  duke  of  Clarence  the  king's  son  and  late  lieutenant  in 
Ireland  over  and  above  what  he  and  his  predecessors  have  paid  upon 
their  accounts  of  the  farm  thereof  from  the  date  of  the  said  charter, 
for  that  by  the  said  extent  sent  before  them  by  writ  of  the  chancery 
pf  Ireland  it  was  found  that  the  ma.nor  a,t  the  time  of  that  inquisition 


328^  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS 


1367.  Membrane  20 — cont. 

and  from  the  date  of  the  charter  until  then  was  worth  £97  55.  Ihd. 
yeaiiy  ;  and  the  prior  said  tliat  the  said  last  extent  was  made  of 
office  by  his  enemies  in  his  absence,  whereto  he  is  not  a  party  nor  was 
not,  and  that  the  manor  is  not  worth  so  much  as  by  the  extent 
is  surmised,  nor  was  not  at  any  time  after  the  date  of  the  charter, 
the  admission  of  which  proof  the  treasurer  and  barons  have  deferred, 
therefore  the  prior  has  prayed  for  remedy  ;  and  after  viewing  and 
examining  the  record  aforesaid,  it  seems  to  the  council  in  England 
that  the  proof  in  this  case  ought  to  have  been  admitted. 

July  4.  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  to  remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Wilton 
in  Pikcrynglith,  dehvering  to  Walter  son  and  heir  of  Walter  de 
Heslarton  knight  {militis)  any  issues  thereof  taken,  although  the 
escheator  lately  caused  the  same  to  be  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  as 
the  king  has  learned,  for  that  he  found  by  inquisition,  before  him  taken 
of  his  office,  that  Walter  de  Heslarton  knight  deceased  held  the  said 
manor  of  the  gift  of  John  de  Heslarton  knight  his  father  made 
without  the  king's  licence,  that  the  same  was  held  in  chief  as  of  the 
crown  by  knight  service,  the  said  Walter  the  son  being  then  within 
age,  that  the  wardship  thereof  and  the  marriage  of  Walter  the  son 
pertained  to  the  king,  and  that  the  king  had  nothing  ;  as  in  a  cause 
pending  before  the  king  between  the  king  and  Thomas  de  Heslarton, 
uncle  of  the  said  Walter  the  son  whose  heir  he  is,  and  Alice  his  wife 
then  tenants  of  the  said  manor,  namely  whether  the  same  was  held 
in  chief  as  of  the  crown  by  knight  service  or  of  Henry  late  duke  of 
Lancaster,  it  was  found  by  inquisition  of  the  country  that  it  was  held 
of  the  said  duke  as  of  his  honour  of  Pikeryng  and  not  in  chief,  and 
that  all  tenants  thereof  time  out  of  mind  held  of  the  lords  of  the  said 
honour  and  not  of  the  Idng,  as  appears  by  the  tenor  of  the  record  and 
process  thereof  which  the  king  has  caused  to  come  before  him  in 
chancery. 

July  12.  To  Reynold  de  Sholdham  the  king's  searcher  in  the  port  of  London 
Westminster,  and  the  river  Thames.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Nicholas  Snypeston, 
if  by  inquisition  or  otherwise  he  may  be  assured  that  the  facts  therein 
stated  are  true,  to  cause  a  boat  of  the  said  Nicholas  and  one  last 
and  a  half  of  hides  therein  to  be  dearrested  and  delivered  to  the  said 
Nicholas ;  as  the  king  lately  ordered  the  searcher  to  certify  in 
chancery  under  his  seal  the  cause  wherefore  the  said  boat  and  hides 
were  by  him  arrested,  and  he  returned  that  he  arrested  and  is  keeping 
the  same  under  arrest  f6r  that  the  hides  A\'ere  without  the  king's 
warrant  laded  in  the  port  of  London  ;  and  the  said  Nicholas  has 
informed  the  king  that  they  were  so  laded  to  be  taken  to  Berkyng 
and  not  elsewhere.-  By  C. 

July  L  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  to  remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  advowson  of  a 
mediety  of  the  church  of  Bubwyth  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand  ; 
as  lately  the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the 
cause  wherefore  he  so  look  that  advowson  of  the  abbot  of  Byland, 
and  he  certified  that  he  did  so  for  that  he  found  by  inquisition, 
before  him  taken  of  bis  office,  that  the  now  abbot  of  Byland  without 
obtaining  the  king's  licence  in  the  38th  year  of  his  reign  acquired 


41  EDWARD  111. 


320 


1367.  Membrane  20 — cont. 

the  Siiid  advowsoii  of  Jolm  Moubray  lord  of  the  isle  of  Axiholtuc,  and 
appropriated  to  him  and  his  sueeessors  the  iiiodiety  of  the  said 
chureh  ;  and  on  20  August  in  the  23rd  year  the  king  l)y  letters  patent 
gave  lieence  to  tlie  said  Jolui  to  give  the  said  advowson,  which  is 
held  in  chief,  to  the  then  abbot  and  convent  of  Byland  and  to  their 
successors  to  hold  of  the  king  and  his  heirs,  and  to  the  abbot  and 
convent  to  appropriate  and  hold  the  niediety  of  the  said  church,  the 
statute   of   mortmain   notwithstanding. 


Membrane  19. 

May  23.  To  Roger  de  Wolf reton  escheator  in  Essex  (stc).  Order  not  to  meddle 
Westminster,  further  with  a  messuage  and  15  acres  of  land  in  Bourgh  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Richard  de  Thisteldon,  saving  to  the 
king  the  issues  thereof  taken  since  his  death,  to  be  levied  to  the  king's 
use  of  those  who  should  therewith  be  lawfully  charged  ;  as  it  is  found 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Richard,  who 
died  about  the  feast  of  St.  George  in  the  13th  year  of  the  reign,  held 
the  premises  in  chief  as  of  the  manor  of  Bradefeld  by  knight  service, 
that  Alice  de  Thisteldon  wife  of  John  Bisshop,  daughter  of  the  said 
Richard  and  at  his  death  within  age,  is  his  next  heir  and  now  of  full 
age,  and  that  the  escheators  for  the  time  being  have  occupied  the 
premises  from  the  said  Richard's  death  by  reason  of  her  nonage, 
taking  the  issues  and  profits  and  accounting  for  them  at  the  exchequer  ; 
and  at  another  time  the  king  gave  the  said  manor  by  letters 
patent  to  John  de  Norwico  and  his  heirs  with  the  knights'  fees, 
advowsons  etc.  thereto  belonging,  and  for  6s.  ^d.  paid  him  by  the 
said  John  and  Alice  the  king  has  pardoned  them  the  trespasses  com- 
mitted by  the  said  John  in  taking  to  wife  the  said  Alice,  and  by  the 
said  Alice  in  marrying  the  said  John  without  the  king's  licence. 


May  18. 

Westminster. 


To  the  sheriff  of  Somerset.  Order  to  cause  Elizabeth  Brent  to  have 
seisin  of  a  messuage  and  3  acres  of  land  in  Wryngton  held  by  Walter 
Hunt  hanged  for  felony  it  is  said ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  sheriff,  that  the  premises  have  been  in  his 
hand  a  year  and  a  day  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  that  the  said 
Walter  held  them  of  the  said  Elizabeth,  and  that  Richard  Broun 
bailiff  of  the  liberty  of  the  abbot  of  Glastonbury  had  the  year  and  a 
day  and  the  waste,  and  ought  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  same. 


May  18.  To  Philip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.  Order  not 
Westminster,  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Tettebury  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  John  de  Breouse  knight,  delivering  to  Beatrice 
late  the  wife  of  Thomas  de  Breouse  knight  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
the  said  John  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in 
his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  manor  in  tee  tail  in  chief  by 
knight  service  of  the  gift  of  the  said  Thomas  and  Beatrice  made  with 
the  king's  licence  to  him  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  (likewise  deceased) 
and  to  the  heirs  male  of  their  bodies,  with  reversion  for  lack  of 
such  an  heir  to  the  said  Thomas  and  Beatrice  and  to  their  heirs,  and 
that  the  said  John  and  li^lizabeth  are  dead  without  an  heir  male  of 
their  bodies,  wherefore  the  said  manor  ought  by  the  form  of  the 
gift  to  revert  to  the  said  Beatrice 


330 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS 


1367. 

May  20. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  19 — cont. 

To  John  duke  of  Lancastre  or  to  his  steward  in  Yorkshire.  Order 
to  cause  all  the  lands  which  were  of  William  de  Kerdeston  tenant  in 
chief  at  his  death,  the  wardship  whereof  the  king  has  committed  to 
the  said  duke  to  hold  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  William's  heir, 
to  be  delivered  to  John  son  of  John  Burgherssh  cousin  and  heir  of 
the  said  William,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  from  4  December 
last,  for  from  that  day  the  king's  will  is  that  the 'duke  be  thereof 
discharged  toward  him  ;  as  on  4  December  the  age  of  the  said  John 
was  proved,  and  the  king  took  his  homage  and  fealty  for  all  the  lands 
of  the-  said  William  his  grandfather,  and  by  divers  writs  commanded 
as  well  William  de  Reygate  late  escheator  as  John  de  Scotherskelf 
now  escheator  in  Yorkshire  to  cause  him  to  have  seisin  of  the  said 
lands,  or  to  shew  cause  wherefore  they  did  not  obey  the  commands 
at  another  time  addressed  to  them  ;  and  the  now  escheator  has 
certified  in  chancery  that  the  lands  in  the  said  writ  contained  are  in 
the  said  duke's  hand  as  aforesaid,  wherefore  he  might  not  deliver 
them  to  the  said  John. 


May  22. 

Westminster. 


May  15. 

Westminster, 


May  23. 

Westminster. 


May  10. 

Westminster. 


To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  account 
with  Robert  de  Hadham  concerning  the  sale  of  156  quarters  of  salt 
delivered  to  his  keeping  by  John  late  bishop  of  Rochester  the 
treasurer  to  the  king's  use,  allowing  the  said  Robert  of  the  money 
arising  from  the  sale  lOZ.  for  his  expenses  in  regard  to  a  suit  by  him 
made  for  the  king  against  William  de  Keynes  and  Walter  atte  More, 
whereby  the  king  recovered  240Z.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

To  Philip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.  Order 
not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage  and  two  carucates  of  land  in 
Henton  by  Derham  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Emma 
who  was  wife  of  John  de  Merston,  delivering  to  the  said  John 
sometime  her  husband  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Emma 
at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of 
fee  nor  in  service,  but  held  the  premises,  which  are  held  of  others  than 
the  king,  for  her  life  jointly  with  the  said  John. 

To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  not  to 
meddle  further  with  a  messuage,  four  tofts  and  twenty  bovates  of 
land  in  Osgodby  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Robert 
Barde  of  Osgodby,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  it  is 
found  by  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  William  de 
Reygate  late  escheator,  that  the  said  Robert  at  his  death  held  no 
lands  in  that  county  in  chief  as  of  the  crown  in  his  demesne  as  of 
fee,  but  held  the  premises  in  fee  tail  of  the  king  as  of  the  honour 
of  Albemarle  by  knight  service,  and  divers  lands  in  the  same  county  of 
others  than  the  king  ;  and  by  letters  patent  the  king  lately  gave 
all  wards,  marriages,  reliefs  and  other  profits  arising  of  the  fees  of 
Albemarle  in  England  \\'heresoever  to  Isabel  his  daughter,  whom 
Ingelram  Coucy  earl  of  Bedeford  has  now  taken  to  wife. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Dorset.  Order  to  cause  Avice  who  was  wife 
of  Henry  de  Blokkesworth  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage  and  the 
moiety  of  one  carucate  of  land  in  Wynterbourne  Whitchurche  held  by 
Robert    Bertelot    hanged    for    felony   it   is   said;    as   the  king   has 


41  EDWARD  III. 


331 


May  6. 

Westininstor. 


May  20. 
Westminster. 

June  5. 

Westminster. 


June  22. 

Westminster. 


June  5. 

Westminster. 


1367.  Membrane  19 — cont. 

learned  by  inquisition,  tfiken  by  the  sheriff,  that  the  premises  have 
been  in  his  liand  a  year  and  a  day  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  that 
they  were  held  of  the  said  Avice,  and  that  William  Latymer  had  the 
year  and  a  day  aiid  the  waste,  and  ought  to  answer  to  the  king  for 
the  same. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
instead  of  Thomas  de  Curthuhir,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
instead  of  Richard  de  Coupeland  the  uncle,  who  is  sick  and  aged. 

To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer,  and  to  the 
chamberlains.  Order  to  discharge  and  acquit  William  de  Wyndesore, 
whom  the  king  lately  sent  to  the  parts  of  Karliol  on  his  service,  as  well 
at  the  receipt  as  at  the  exchequer,  of  the  40Z.  by  him  taken  as  a  prest 
at  the  receipt  of  the  exchequer  on  17  February  last  touching  his 
expenses  in  going  thither  and  returning  ;  as  the  king's  will  is  that 
he  shall  have  the  same  for  his  expenses  of  the  king's  gift.  By  K. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
instead  of  John  Pope  '  goldesmyth ',  who  is  insufficiently  quaUfied. 

Membrane  18. 
To  Edmund  Sauvage  escheator  in  Notynghamshire.  Order  to 
deliver  to  Robert  Tybetot  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Langar, 
16  messuages  and  21  bovates  6 J  acres  of  land  therein  excepted,  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  Tybetot,  together  with  the 
issues  taken  of  the  said  manor  with  the  exception  aforesaid,  but  not 
to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Epriston  likewise 
so  taken,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John 
at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as 
of  fee,  but  held  for  life  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Langar  (except  as 
aforesaid)  of  the  gift  of  John  de  Sandale  parson  of  Arkeshay  and 
John  de  Kyneton  parson  of  Radclyf,  and  the  manor  and  advowson 
of  Epriston  of  the  gift  of  William  Deyncourt  sometime  lord  of 
Graneby  and  Thomas  de  Hameldene  parson  of  Potterhaynworth, 
with  reversion  to  the  said  Robert  and  to  his  heirs  begotten  of  Margaret 
daughter  of  the  said  William,  and  that  the  manor  and  advowson  of 
Langar  (with  the  exceptions  aforesaid)  are  held  of  the  king  as  of 
the  honour  of  Peverell,  which  is  in  his  hand,  by  the  service  of  one 
knight's  fee  and  a  half  and  of  10s.  yearly  payable,  and  the  manor 
and  advowson  of  Epriston  of  another  than  the  king ;  and  the  king  has 
taken  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  Robert.      By  p.s.  [27368.] 

June  4.  To  Richard  Stanhope  mayor  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne  and  escheator 

Westminster,  in  that  town.  Order,  in  presence  of  Nicholas  Sabraliam,  Alice  his  wife 
and  Maud  her  sister,  if  upon  A\'arning  they  will  attend,  to  make 
a  partition  into  two  equal  parts  of  the  tenements  and  rents  of 
Christiana  who  was  wiie  of  William  de  Plumpton  in  the  said  town 
kept  in  the  king's  hand  for  the  purparties  of  Maud  and  Alice  daughtets 
of  Agnes  elder  daughter  and  heir  of  Richard  de  Emeldon,  and  or 
cause  the  said  Nicholas  and  Alice  to  have  seisin  of  the  purparty  falling 


332  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1367.  Membrane  18 — cont. 

to  the  said  Alice  with  the  issues  thereof  from  15  June  in  the  40th  year 
of  tlie  reign,  on  which  day  the  king  took  the  homage  of  the  said 
Nicholas  due  by  reason  of  issue  between  him  and  Alice  begotten, 
keeping  in  the  king's  hand  until  further  order  the  purparty  of  the 
said  Maud,  and  sending  the  partition  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery  ;  as 
lately  on  the  finding  of  an  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command 
by  William  de  Reygate  then  escheator  in  Northumberland,  that  the 
said  Christiana  at  her  death  held  in  dower  after  the  death  of  Richard 
de  Emeldon  tenant  in  chief  her  first  husband  the  third  part  of  the 
manor  of  Jesemuth  which  is  held  in  chief,  and  divers  other  lands 
not  held  of  the  king,  of  the  heritage  of  the  said  Maud  and  Alice 
daughters  of  Agnes  eldest  daughter  and  heir  of  the  said  Richard,  Maud 
who  was  wife  of  Alexander  de  Hilton  knight  and  sometime  of  Richard 
de  Acton  his  second  daughter,  and  Jacoba  wife  of  John  Stryvelyn 
knight  his  third  daughter  and  heir,  with  reversion  to  the  said  heirs, 
the  king  ordered  the  said  late  escheator  in  presence  of  the  said 
heirs  and  parceners  to  make  a  partition  of  the  premises  into  three 
equal  parts,  and  to  cause  the  said  John  and  Jacoba  and  the  said 
Maud  who  was  A\'ife  of  Richard  severally  to  have  seisin  of  such 
lands  as  should  fall  to  them,  the  king  having  at  another  time 
taken  the  homage  of  the  said  John  and  of  Richard  de  Acton, 
keeping  in  the  king's  hand  until  further  order  the  purparties  of 
the  said  Maud  and  Alice  daughters  of  Agnes  ;  and  after  the  king 
took  the  homage  and  fealty  as  well  of  the  said  Nicholas  as  aforesaid 
as  of  the  said  Maud  daughter  of  Agnes,  and  by  another  writ  com- 
manded the  said  late  escheator  to  make  a  partition  into  two  equal 
parts  of  the  lands  so  kept  in  his  hand,  and  to  cause  the  said  Nicholas 
and  Alice  and  Maud  daughters  of  Agnes  to  have  seisin  of  the  pur- 
parties of  the  said  Alice  and  Maud  respectively  ;  and  subsequently 
upon  the  finding  of  another  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command 
by  Richard  de  Stanhope  then  mayor  of  the  said  town  and 
escheator,  that  the  said  Christiana  at  her  death  held  in  dower 
of  the  same  heritage  divers  tenements  and  rents  in  the  said  toAvn 
of  Newcastle,  held  of  the  king  in  burgage,  m  ith  reversion  as  aforesaid, 
the  king  ordered  the  said  escheator  in  that  town  to  make  a  partition 
thereof  into  three  equal  parts,  and  to  cause  the  said  John  and 
Jacoba  and  Maud  who  was  wife  of  Richard  to  have  seisin  of  the  pur- 
parties of  Jacoba  and  Maud  respectively,  keeping  in  the  king's  hand 
until  further  order  the  purparties  of  the  said  Maud  and  Alice 
daughters  of  Agnes  in  the  said  town. 

July  8.  To   John   de   Scotherskelf   escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order,   if   by 

Westminster,  inquisition  or  otherwise  he  may  be  assured  that  6  marks  of  rent 
issuing  from  tenements  in  York  taken  by  the  escheator  into  the 
king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  idiocy  of  Margaret  one  of  the  daughters 
and  heirs  of  Nicholas  de  Colonia  citizen  of  York,  are  parcel  of  the 
9  marks  id.  of  rent  contained  in  the  king's  letters  patent  to  Richard 
Toller  of  York,  and  that  before  they  were  so  taken  Walter  de 
Ottryngton  chaplain  now  Avarden  of  the  chantry  lately  founded  by 
Andrew  Toller  in  the  church  of  St.  Martin  in  Mikelgate  York  and  his 
predecessors  took  and  had  the  said  6  marks  of  rent  of  those  tene- 
ments bj^  virtue  of  the  king's  licence,  to  cause  the  same  6  marks 
yearly  with  the  arrears  from  the  time  the  same  were  so  taken  to  be  paid 
of  the  said  warden  so  long  as  these  tenements  shall  remain  in  the 


41    EDWARD    III 


333 


1307.  Membrane  18 — cont. 

king's  liand  ;  as  lately  the  king  commanded  the  escheator  to  certify 
in  chancery  under  his  seal  the  cause  wherefore  the  tenements  and 
rents  of  Constantine  del  Dam  and  Joan  his  wife  in  York  were  by 
him  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  he  returned  that  he  so  took  no 
tenements  of  the  said  Constantine  and  Joan  in  York  or  elsewlvere,  but 
that  he  took  into  the  king's  liand  divers  tenements  and  rents  in 
York,  namely  in  Conyngstrete,  Ousegatc,  Stayngate  and  Northstrete, 
\\hich  are  worth  100s.  a  year,  and  they  are  yet  in  the  king's  hand,  for 
that  he  found  by  inquisition,  before  him  taken  of  his  office,  that  the  said 
Margaret  (yet  living)  had  the  same  in  fee  after  her  said  father's  death, 
and  that  she  is  an  idiot  and  has  been  from  birth  ;  and  now  on  behalf 
of  the  said  warden  the  king  has  learned  that  the  said  Ricliard  Toller 
with  the  king's  licence  lately  gave  and  assigned  to  the  chaplains  of  the 
said  chantry  9  mra'ks  4d.  of  rent  in  York,  namely  6  marks  issuing 
from  the  tenements  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the 
idiocy  of  the  said  Margaret,  the  residue  of  certain  other  tenements 
in  the  said  city,  wherefore  the  said  warden  has  prayed  for  restitution 
of  those  6  marks  of  rent ;  and  on  5  December  in  the  6th  year  of  his 
reign  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  licence  to  the  said  Richard 
[to  give]  two  messuages,  two  shops  and  9  marks  4d.  of  rent  in  the 
city  and  suburb  of  York  to  two  chaplains  and  their  successors  for 
ever  to  celebrate  divine  service  every  day  in  the  said  church  of 
St.  Martin  according  to  the  appointment  of  the  said  Richard. 


July  12. 
Westminster. 


July   3. 
Westminster. 


To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Essex  and  Hertfordshire. 
Order,  of  the  issues  of  his  bailiwick,  to  cause  the  necessary  repairs  of 
the  mills  of  Colcestre,  w  hereof  two  thirds  are  the  king's  and  one  third 
of  the  prior  of  St.  Botolph  Colccestre  it  is  said,  to  be  done  up  to  the  sum 
of  10  marks  if  need  be,  distraining  the  said  prior  for  payment  of  one 
third  of  the  costs.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  call 
before  them  John  Charneles  clerk,  late  receiver  of  all  the  king's  wools 
which  he  commanded  to  be  delivered  at  the  port  of  Orewell,  to 
search  the  rolls  of  account  as  well  of  the  said  receiver  as  of  Henry 
Flemyng  and  Robert  atte  Barre  late  collectors  of  customs  in  the 
port  of  Suthampton  which  are  at  the  exchequer,  and  other  rolls  and 
memoranda  of  the  exchequer  relating  to  the  business,  and  if  by 
inspection  thereof,  by  acknowledgment  of  the  said  receiver,  by 
inquisition  or  otherwise  they  may  be  assured  that  the  said  receiver 
took  69  sarplers  of  wool  of  Roger  Norman  deceased,  Nicholas  Spark 
and  Roger  atte  Hurne,  charging  himself  therewith,  and  that  79  sacks 
18  cloves  of  wool  received  by  the  said  collectors  Avas  the  wool  in 
those  sarplers  contained,  to  stay  their  demand  made  by  exchequer 
summons  upon  John  de  Cavendissh  and  Peter  de  Bruges,  tenants  of 
the  lands  which  were  of  the  said  Roger  Norman,  for  the  sacks  and 
cloves  of  wool  aforesaid,  thereof  discharging  as  well  the  said  Roger 
Norman  and  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton  as  the  said  John  de  Cavendissh 
and  Peter  ;  as  on  behalf  of  the  said  John  and  Peter,  tenants  of  the 
lands  of  Roger  Norman  who  was  owner  of  a  ship  called  '  la  Seinte 
Marie  cog  '  of  Suthampton,  it  is  shewn  the  king  that  the  said  Roger, 
Nicholas  Spark  master  of  the  said  ship,  and  Roger  atte  Hurne  owner 
and  master  of  a  ship  called  '  la  Trinite '  of  Suthampton,  lately 
received  of  the  said  collectors  79  sacks  18  cloves  of  the  king's  wool 


334  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1367.  Membrane  18 — cont. 

to  carry  to  the  port  of  Orewell  and  deliver  to  the  said  receiver,  and 
that  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  are  as  aforesaid  demanding  that 
wool  of  the  said  John  de  Cavendissh  and  Peter  as  tenants  of  Roger 
Norman's  lands,  and  causing  them  unlawfully  to  be  distrained  for 
the  same,  although  the  said  Roger,  Nicholas  and  Roger  delivered  the 
said  wool  in  69  sarplers  at  the  said  port  to  the  said  receiver  to  the 
king's  use,  and  the  receiver  charged  himself  therewith  in  his  account 
at  the  exchequer,  for  that  in  his  account  is  no  mention  of  the  79 
sacks  and  19  {sic)  cloves,  although  the  wool  is  the  same  as  is  con- 
tained in  the  69  sarplers  to  him  delivered,  therefore  they  have 
prayed  for  remedy. 


Membrane  17. 

June  1.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Dertemuthe.     Order 

Westminster,  to  receive  of  foreign  and  alien  merchants  to  the  king's  use  for  the 
custom  due  for  every  tun  of  wine  by  them  brought  to  that  port  25., 
for  every  cloth  of  assize  2\d.,  for  every  scarlet  and  other  cloth  of  whole 
grain  35.  6rf.,  and  the  moiety  of  that  custom  for  every  other  cloth  of 
half  grain  or  wherein  part  shall  be  of  grain  intermingled,  namely 
of  every  cloth  made  within  the  realm  and  by  them  taken  over 
sea,  staying  altogether  their  demand  upon  the  said  merchants 
for  payment  of  Zd.  in  the  pound  to  the  king's  use  for  such 
wines  and  cloths  over  and  above  the  said  custom,  and  restoring 
without  delay  anything  of  them  levied  over  and  above  the  same  ; 
as  for  obtaining  certain  liberties  and  immunities  within  the 
realm  granted  them  by  charter  of  King  Edward  I,  confirmed  by  the 
king,  the  said  merchants  granted  the  said  king  and  his  heirs  to  pay 
the  following  customs  of  their  merchandise  brought  within  the  realm 
or  taken  thence  over  and  above  the  ancient  customs  formerly  given, 
namely  of  every  tun  of  wine  2s.,  of  every  scarlet  and  dyed  cloth  in  grain 
25.,  of  every  cloth  whereof  part  was  of  grain  intermingled  18^.,  of 
every  other  cloth  without  grain  12c?.,  of  avoirdupois  and  other  small 
wares  not  easily  set  at  the  true  custom  3d.  in  the  pound  of  every 
pound  of  silver  of  the  estimate  or  value  thereof  ;  and  after  for  that 
the  wool  growing  within  the  realm,  whereof  if  it  had  been  taken  over 
to  foreign  parts  the  custom  and  subsidy  ought  to  have  been  paid  to 
the  king,  was  worked  into  cloths  within  the  realm  and  the  clotlis  taken 
over  to  foreign  parts  in  no  small  quantity,  it  was  ordered  by  the  king 
and  council  that  for  every  cloth  made  within  the  realm  and  so  taken 
out  there  should  be  taken  to  the  king's  use  for  every  cloth  of  assize 
14d.  from  natives  and  21d.  from  aliens,  for  every  cloth  of  scarlet  or 
other  whole  grain  25.  4:d.  from  natives  and  35.  6d.  from  aliens,  and  for 
every  other  cloth  of  half  grain  or  wherein  part  should  be  of  grain 
intermingled  a  moiety  of  that  custom  ;  and  now  on  behalf  of  certain 
of  the  said  merchants  coming  with  their  merchandise  to  the  realm 
the  king  has  learned  that,  though  they  are  ready  to  pay  the  col- 
lectors 25.  for  every  tun  of  wine  brought  to  that  port  and  the  customs 
last  mentioned  for  cloths  made  in  England  and  by  them  exported  in 
the  said  port  according  to  the  ordinance,  the  collectors  regarding  not 
this  are  demanding  of  them  3d.  in  the  pound  for  such  wines  and 
cloths  over  and  above  that  custom,  and  are  unlawfully  troubling  them 
for  that  cause,  wherefore  they  have  prayed  for  remedy  ;  and  it  is 
not  lawful  nor  reasonable  that  they  should  be  charged  with  double 


41  EDWARD  III.  335 


13()7,  Memhrane  17 — cont. 

custom  for  one  and  the  same  matter.  Proviso  that  the  said  mer- 
chants shall  pay  3rf.  in  the  pound  for  other  merchandise  imported  or 
exported. 

June  5.  To  the  collectors  of  the  custom  upon   wools,  hides  and  woolfells 

Wosfininstor.  in  the  ])ort  of  London.  Order,  upon  tlie  petition  of  Thomas  Kyng 
of  Maydcston,  to  take  of  him  security  and  his  oath  that  he  will  not 
take  nor  cause  to  be  taken  two  lasts  of  hides  laded  in  the  said  port 
elsewhere  but  to  the  town  of  Maydcston  to  be  tanned,  and  not  to 
parts  over  sea,  and  to  suftcr  him  to  lade  the  same  and  bring  them 
thither  by  water  \\  ithout  payment  of  custom  and  subsidy,  statutes, 
proclamations  or  prohibitions  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding,  certi- 
fying in  chancery  under  seal  the  security  so  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
granted  him  licence  so  to  do,  so  that  he  first  find  security,  for 
which  the  collectors  will  answer,  for  taking  the  hides  to  the  said 
town,  for  answering  to  the  king  concerning  the  custom  and  subsidy 
thereupon  due  in  case  the  same  should  be  imperilled  or  lost,  and 
concerning  the  forfeiture  likewise  in  case  they  should  be  taken  to 
parts  over  sea.  By  C. 

May  20.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  allow 
Westminster.  John  de  Weye  the  king's  clerk  for  his  expenses  in  going  at  the 
treasurer's  command  to  Cornwall  and  Devon  for  making  an  extent  of 
the  lands  of  Richard  Hywyssh  knight  deceased  U.  95.  3|c?.  current 
in  demand  at  the  exchequer  against  the  said  John  and  Robert  de 
Crouthorn  for  arrears  of  the  farm  of  the  lands  which  were  of  Matthew 
de  Crouthorn,  thereof  discharging  as  well  the  said  John  as  the  said 
Robert.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

May  20.  To  the  sheriff  of  Hereford.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  the  commons 
Westminster,  of  that  county,  if  there  used  of  old  time  to  be  four  coroners  therein 
and  if  there  be  now  but  three,  to  cause  another  to  be  elected  ;  as 
on  behalf  of  the  said  commons  it  is  shewn  the  king  that  there  used 
of  old  to  be  four  coroners  and  now  are  but  three,  whereby  the  commons 
are  ofttimes  troubled  in  these  days,  praying  that  another  may  be 
elected. 

July  1.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Robert  Jordan,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

July  1.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Roteland  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  William  Flemmyng,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

July  13.  To  Richard  de  Ravensere  the  king's  clerk,  keeper  of  the  hanaper 
Westminster,  of  chancery.  Order  of  the  issues  of  the  hanaper  to  pay  16Z.  to  the 
clerks  of  chancery  of  the  first  bench  for  a  barge  by  them  bought  for 
passage  to  and  fro  across  the  Thames  to  the  manor  of  Lambheth  of 
Simon  archbishop  of  Canterbury  the '  chancellor  where  the  inn  of 
chancery  is  now  held,  and  for  wages  of  the  keepers  of  the  said 
barge  this  year,  and  the  expenses  necessary  for  repair  thereof. 

May  1.  To  William  de  Wykeham  the  king's  clerk,  late  keeper  of  the  lands 

Westminster,  which  were  of  Oliver  de  Burdeux.     Order  to  cause  all  the  king's  lands 

in  New  Wyndesore,  Old  Wyndesore,  Wythemere,  Fohe  John,  Hjn-emere, 

Wynkefeld  and  Ascot/e  co.  Berks,  Eton  by  Wyndesore  co.  Bukingham 


336 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROILS. 


1367. 


July  L 

Westminster. 


May  3. 

Westminster. 


May  25. 

Westminster. 


June  8. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  17 — cont 

and  of  the  manor  of  Shawe,  which  were  lately  of  the  said  Oliver  and 
by  the  king's  commission  are  in  the  said  William's  keeping,  to  be 
delivered  to  Thomas  Cheyne  constable  of  Wyndesore  castle  to  be 
kept  to  the  king's  use,  as  command  has  been  given  him.  By  K. 

To  Alan  de  Bukeshull  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London  or  to  his 
lieutenant.  Order  to  receive  and  keep  in  safe  custody  in  the  prison 
of  the  Tower  until  further  order  John  Sibile,  whom  for  particular 
causes  the  king  has  caused  to  be  delivered  to  him.  By  K. 

To  the  same.  Order  to  set  free  from  the  prison  of  the  Tower  John 
de  Massyngham,  whom  the  king  lately  caused  to  be  delivered  to  his 
custody  there.  By  K. 

To  the  same.  Order  to  receive  from  John  de  la  Lee  steward  of 
the  king's  household,  and  to  keep  in  safe  custody  in  the  prison  of 
the  Tower  until  further  order  William  de  Hasthorp,  whom  the  said 
steward  shall  deliver  to  him  at  the  king's  command.  By  K. 

Membrane  16. 

To  Richard  de  Wj^deville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.  Order 
to  deliver  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent  to  Ingelram  de  Coucy 
earl  of  Bedford  and  to  Isabel  his  wife  the  king's  daughter  a  messuage, 
the  moiety  of  a  messuage,  one  virgate  and  the  fourth  part  of  one 
virgate  of  land  in  Watford,  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
the  death  of  Nicholas  de  Burneby  tenant  in  chief,  together  with  the 
issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  on  28  August  in  the  35th  year  of  his  reign 
the  king  granted  to  the  said  Isabel,  whom  the  said  earl  has  taken 
to  wife,  the  wardship  of  the  lands  of  the  said  Nicholas  which  are  in 
the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir, 
with  the  issues  thereof  taken  etc.,  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  heir  ; 
and  now  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
said  Nicholas  at  bis  death  held  the  premises  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee, 
which  are  parcel  of  the  manor  of  Watford  held  in  chief  by  knight 
service,  and  that  they  were  taken  by  the  escheator  into  the  king's 
hand  by  reason  of  the  death  of  the  said  Nicholas  and  of  the  nonage 
of  Agnes  daughter  and  heir  of  Eustace  de  Burneby  his  son  and 
heir,  as  is  found  by  certificate  of  the  escheator  sent  into  chancery 
at  the  king's  command.  The  king's  will  is  that  the  escheator  be 
discharged  of  the  premises. 

To  Thomas  de  Lodelowe  and  his  fellows  justices  of  assize  in  Kent. 
Order  to  proceed  to  take  an  assize  of  novel  disseisin  before  them 
arraigned  by  John  William  citizen  and  spicer  of  London  and 
Elizabeth  his  wife  against  Richard  son  of  Benedict  de  Fulsham  late 
citizen  of  London  and  Thomas  de  Thorneton  '  pavyllonner  '  concerning 
the  lands  not  in  the  king's  hand,  but  not  concerning  the  lands 
taken  into  his  hand,  doing  justice  to  the  parties,  the  king's  com- 
mand notwithstanding  ;  as  the  said  John  and  Elizabeth  arraigned 
that  assize  concerning  tenements  in  Little  Chatham  and  Great  Delse 
by  Rochester,  putting  in  view  60  acres  of  land  in  Little  Chatham, 
and  because  John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Kent  certified  that  he  took  into 
the  king's  hand  60  acres  of  land  in  that  town  which  were  of  the  said 
Benedict  for  that  he  found  by  inquisition,  by  him  taken  of  his  office, 


41  EDWARD  III.  337 


1367.  Membrane  l6—cont. 

that  Benedict  at  his  deatli  held  tlie  same  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  in 
cliief  as  of  tlie  king's  castle  of  Ledes  by  the  service  of  the  fourth  part 
of  one  knight's  fee,  the  king  commanded  the  said  justices  not  to 
proceed  to  take  that  assize  if  assured  that  the  tenements  so  put  in 
view  are  the  same  seized  by  the  escheator  into  the  king's  hand  or  any 
part  thereof  ;  and  now  by  complaint  it  is  shewn  the  king  on  behalf 
of  the  said  John  and  Elizabeth  that,  though  they  arraigned  and  are 
prosecuting  the  said  assize  as  well  concerning  other  lands  not  in  the 
king's  hand  as  concerning  those  so  taken,  the  justices  purpose  not 
to  proceed  to  take  that  assize,  which  would  tend  to  their  hurt  a.nd 
peril  of  their  disherison.  By  C. 

June  1.  To  the  sheriff  of  Northumberland.     Order  to  stay  altogether  the 

Wostininstor.  further  execution  of  the  king's  writ  commanding  him  to  levy  and 
deliver  certain  moneys  to  John  son  and  heir  of  Robert  de  Maners  tenant 
in  chief  ;  as  on  20  November  in  the  36th  year  of  the  reign  the  king  by 
letters  patent  committed  to  Edward  de  Letham  the  wardship  of  certain 
lands  in  Ethale  and  Tossam  held  in  dower  and  otherwise  for  life 
by  Alina  who  was  wife  of  the  said  Robert  of  the  heritage  of  the  said 
John,  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  her  death  and  by  reason  of  the  said  John's  nonage,  to  hold  until 
his  lawful  age,  rendering  at  the  exchequer  lOl.  a  year,  and  finding 
the  said  heir  his  maintenance  so  long  as  he  should  have  that  wardship  ; 
and  after  at  the  suit  of  the  said  heir,  alleging  that  the  said  Edward 
from  the  death  of  the  said  Alina  would  find  him  no  maintenance, 
and  praying  for  i*emedy,  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  give  notice 
to  the  said  Edward  to  be  before  the  king  in  chancery  in  the  octaves 
of  St.  Hilary  last  to  shew  cause  wherefore  he  ought  not  to  content 
the  said  heir  for  his  m.aintenance  as  aforesaid  and  find  him  the  same 
thenceforward  until  his  lawful  age  ;  and  because  he,  being  warned 
as  the  sheriff  returned,  came  not  at  that  day  in  chancery,  and  for 
that  the  wardship  of  other  lands  of  the  same  heritage  to  the  value  of 
40  marks  a  year  was  at  another  time  committed  to  him  by  the  king, 
willing  that  the  said  heir  should  have  for  his  maintenance  for  four 
years  past  40  marks,  and  every  year  thenceforward  until  his  lawful 
age  10  marks  a  year,  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  cause  as  well  40 
marks  for  four  years  past  as  10  marks  yearly  thenceforward  to  be 
levied  for  his  maintenance  and  delivered  to  the  said  heir  ;  and  after 
viewing  his  said  letters  patent  Avhereby  he  sold  to  the  said  Alina 
the  mru'riage  of  the  said  heir,  it  seems  to  the  king  that  he  has  made 
satisfaction  for  the  maintenance  of  the  said  heir,  inasmuch  as  he  sold 
the  same  for  201.  only  which  might  have  been  sold  for  100  marks  and 
more,  and  that  answer  ought  to  be  made  by  the  said  Edward  to  the 
king  for  the  10  marks  yearly  which  he  commanded  to  be  levied  for 
maintenance  of  the  heir,  and  the  king  would  provide  for  his  own 
indemnification  in  that  behalf.  The  king's  will  is  that  the  said 
Edward  be  charged  toward  the  king  with  the  10  marks  by  him 
yearly  payable  as  aforesaid.  By  C. 

June  6.  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Cumberland.     Order  to  take. 

Westminster,  the  fealty  of  Richard  son  of  Thomas  de  Skelton  according  to  the 
form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  deliver  to  him  a  messuage,  15 
acres  of  Ifind  and  1  acre  of  m.eadow  in  Skelton,  a  third  part  of  a  third 
pr^rt  cf  the  manor  of  Skelton,  and  two  bovates  20  acres  of  land  and 
12  acres  of  meadow  in  the  same  town  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 

E  22 


338 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1367. 


Membrane  16 — cont. 


the  death  of  his  said  father,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  WiUiam  de  Reygate 
late  escheator,  that  the  said  Thomas  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that 
county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  for  life  the  first 
mentioned  messuage  and  land,  which  are  held  in  chief  by  homage 
and  by  the  service  of  rendering  yearly  Id.  to  cornage,  two  strikes  of 
oats  price  8d.  for  puture  of  the  king's  foresters  of  Ingelwode,  and 
id.  for  the  turn  of  the  king's  bailiff,  of  the  gift  of  Richard  Shephird 
of  Unthank,  and  the  said  third  part  and  other  lands,  which  are  held 
in  chief  by  homage  and  by  the  service  of  rendering  yearly  13s.  4c?, 
to  cornage,  13|  strikes  of  oats  price  45.  6d.  to  the  puture  aforesaid, 
anji  16d.  to  the  said  bailiff's  turn,  and  of  making  suit  at  the  county 
court  month  by  month,  of  the  gift  of  William  de  Routhebery  clerk 
and  William  de  Brumfeld  chaplain  made  with  the  king's  licence,  with 
remainder  of  all  the  premises  to  the  said  Richard  and  the  heirs  male 
of  his  body  ;  and  the  king  has  respited  the  homage  of  the  said 
Richard  until  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next. 

June  23.  To  Philip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  Salop.  Order  not  to  meddle 
Westminster,  further  with  a  toft  and  one  carucate  of  land  in  Remmesleye  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Alina  who  was  wife  of  Edward 
Burnel,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Alina 
at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as 
of  fee,  but  held  the  premises,  which  are  not  held  of  the  king,  for  her 
life  in  name  of  dower  of  the  heritage  of  her  said  husband,  with 
reversion  to  John  Lovel  knight,  who  is  of  full  age,  as  next  heir  of  the 
said  Edward. 


June  22.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  cause  a  messuage  with 
Westminster,  appurtenances  in  Algatestrete  in  the  parish  of  Allhallows  Stanynge- 
churche  in  the  city  of  London  to  be  seized  into  the  king's  hand  and 
safe  kept  until  further  order,  certifying  in  chancery  under  their  seals 
in  the  octaves  of  Midsummer  what  they  have  done  therein  ;  as 
lately  Richard  de  Karlel  'taillour'  was  indicted  before  the  king  and 
convicted  of  certain  grievous  trespasses,  contempts  and  mischiefs  com- 
mitted in  presence  of  the  king  and  the  justices  at  Westminster  in 
contempt  of  the  crown,  in  breach  of  the  peace  and  in  derogation  of  the 
law  of  the  land,  wherefore  it  was  by  the  court  determined  that  the 
said  Richard  should  be  imprisoned  for  life,  committed  to  the  prison  of 
the  Tower  of  London,  and  his  right  hand  should  be  cut  off  ;  and  on 
3  February  in  the  21st  year  of  his  reign,  at  the  request  of  Richard 
Talebot  then  his  steward,  the  king  of  his  special  favour  by  letters 
patent  pardoned  the  said  Richard  de  Karlel  his  imprisonment,  the 
loss  of  his  hand  and  whatever  pertained  to  the  king  in  that  behalf ; 
and  after  at  the  suit  of  Robert  atte  Melle  and  Maud  his  wife,  one 
daughter  and  heir  of  the  said  Richard  de  Karlel  and  Agnes  his  wife, 
and  of  John  Waleys  and  Joan  his  wife  their  other  daughter  and  heir, 
alleging  that  Robert  Tobworth  chaplain  gave  the  premises  to  the 
said  Richard  and  Agnes  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  that  the 
said  Maud  and  Joan  are  issue  of  the  said  Richard  and  Agnes,  that 
the  premises  were  by  reason  of  the  trespass  aforesaid  seized  into  the 
king's  hand  and  given  by  the  king  to  John  de  Padbury  and  his  heirs, 
that  he  after  aliened  the  same  in  fee,  that  Thomas  Fanner  of  London 


41  EDWARD  III.  339 


1367.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

has  occupied  the  premises  unlawfully  for  that  Richard  and  Agnes 
are  long  dead,  and  that  the  said  Richard  de  Karlel  might  not  forfeit 
the  same  being  so  given  in  fee  tail,  whose  right  therein  after  the  death 
of  Richard  and  Agnes  descends  by  virtue  of  the  entail  to  the  said 
Maud  and  Joan  as  their  daughters  ancj  heirs,  and  praying  that  the 
premises  should  be  delivered  to  the  said  Robert  and  Maud,  John 
Waleys  and  Joan  as  the  right  and  heritage  of  the  said  Maud  and 
Joan,  the  king  by  writ  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  give  notice  to  the  said 
Thomas  to  be  before  the  king  in  chancery  on  the  morrow  of  Trinity 
last  to  shew  cause  wherefore  the  premises  ought  not  to  be  seized  again 
into  the  king's  hand  and  delivered  to  the  said  Robert  and  Maud, 
John  Walej^s  and  Joan  as  the  heritage  of  the  said  Maud  and  Joan, 
and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court  should  determine  in 
that  behalf  ;  and  the  said  Thomas  being  warned  and  appearing  at 
that  day  said  nothing  wherefore  the  same  ought  not  so  to  be  delivered 
in  tail. 

Memorandum  that  this  writ  is  not  sent  to  the  exchequer,  for  that  on 
20  December  following  the  king  caused  the  premises  with  the  issues  thereof 
taken  to  be  delivered  to  the  said  Robert  etc.,  as  appears  below. 

Membrane  15. 

July  6.  Bartholomew  Forster,  taken   and  imprisoned  in  the  king's  prison 

Westminster,  of  Rokyngham  for  a  trespass  of  venison  in  the  forest  of  Sappele  whereof 

he  is  indicted,  has  a  writ  addressed  to  William  de  W^ykeham  keeper 

of  the  king's  forest  this  side  Trent  and  to  his  representative  to  deliver 

the  said  Bartholomew  to  bail. 

July  8.  To  the   sheriff  of    Kent    for    the    time    being.     Order    to    pay    to 

Westminster.  Reynold  de  Ferrariis  the  king's  Serjeant  at  arms  the  arrears  of  lOZ. 
a  year  of  the  issues  of  that  county  from  6  April  last,  and  henceforward 
to  pay  him  that  sum  every  year  during  his  life,  according  to  the 
king's  letters  patent,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  on  the  day  named 
the  king  of  his  favour  granted  the  said  Reynold  for  his  good  service 
that  sum  every  year  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  at  Easter  and 
Michaelmas  by  even  portions  for  his  life  or  until  other  order  should 
be  taken  for  his  estate. 
Et  erat  patens. 

June  6.  To  Richard  de  Wydevylle  escheator  in  Roteland.     Order  to  take 

Westminster,  of  Maud  who  was  wife  of  Robert  de  Sussex  tenant  in  chief  an  oath 
that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign  her 
dower  of  the  lands  of  her  said  husband  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
his  death,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in 
chancery. 

June  30.         The  like  to  Edmund  Savage  escheator  in  Derbyshire  for  assignment 
Westminster,  of  dower  to  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  Philip  de  Strelley. 

July  7.  To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Berkshire.     Order  to  take  of 

Westminster.  Clarice  who  was  wife  of  Richard  de  Wyndesore  tenant  in  chief  an  oath 
that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign  her 
dower  of  the  lands  of  her  said  husband  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
his  death,  in  presence  of  Helmyngus  Leget  the  king's  esquire,  to  whom 
he  has  committed  the  wardship  of  two  thirds  of  the  said  lands  until 


340 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1367, 


Membrane  15 — cont. 


July  4. 
Westminster. 


the  lawful  age  of  the  said  Richard's  heir,  or  of  his  attorney  if  upon 
warning  he  will  attend,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be 
enrolled  in  chancery. 

To  John  de'Tye  escheator  in  Middlesex.  Order  to  assign  dower 
to  Clarice  who  was  wife  of  Richard  de  Wyndesore,  whose  oath  not 
to  marry  without  the  king's  licence  has  been  taken  by  John  de 
Evesham,  etc,  {as  above). 

To  John  de  Scothereskelf  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  to  remove 
the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of  Sutton 
upon  Derwent,  Kernetby  and  Ilkelay,  certain  lands  in  Scorby  and 
Staynfordbrigge,  and  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Wharrom  Percy, 
delivering  to  Walter  de  Heselarton,  son  and  heir  of  Eustachia  daughter 
and  heir  of  Peter  de  Percy  who  was  wife  of  Walter  de  Heselarton  knight 
the  elder^  any  issues  taken  of  the  said  manors  and  lands,  although  lately, 
as  the  king  has  learned,  the  escheator  caused  the  premises  to  be  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  for  that  he  found  by  inquisition,  before  him  taken 
of  his  office,  that  the  said  Eustachia  was  seised  in  her  demesne  as 
of  fee  of  the  manors  of  Sutton,  Kernetby  and  Ilkelay  and  the  said 
lands,  which  are  held  of  the  king  and  of  divers  other  lords,  that  she 
was  an  idiot  from  birth  as  the  jurors  were  informed,  and  that  she  held 
the  said  manor  and  advowson  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee  of  the  heritage 
of  the  said  Peter  in  chief  by  homage  and  by  the  service  of  one  grand 
serjeanty  ;  but  because  idiocy  may  not  by  the  law  and  custom  of 
the  realm  be  proved  and  examined  after  the  death  of  the  idiot,  and 
by  inspection  of  the  rolls  of  chancery  the  king  is  assured  that  on 
21  May  in  the  39th  year  of  his  reign  he  took  the  homage  and  fealty 
of  the  said  Walter  the  son  for  his  said  mother's  lands  and  commanded 
livery  thereof  to  be  given  him,  the  king  considers  the  cause  of  taking 
the  same  into  his  hand  insufficient. 

• 

July  14.  To  John  do  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  four  carucates  of  land 
in  Wyntryngham,  delivering  to  the  prior  of  Malton  of  the  order  of 
Sempyngham  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  lately  ordered  the 
escheator  to  certify  under  his  seal  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore 
the  lands  of  the  said  prior  in  Wyntryngham  were  by  him  taken  into 
the  king's  hand,  and  he  returned  that  he  so  took  the  premises  for 
that  he  found  by  inquisition,  before  him  taken  of  his  office,  that  the 
said  prior  held  the  same  by  homage  of  the  heir  of  Roger  de  Mortuo 
Mari,  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  that  the  priory  was  void  in 
the  time  intervening,  and  that  the  king  had  no  profit  thereof  in  the 
time  of  that  vacancy  ;  and  the  king  considers  that  cause  unlawful 
and  insufficient. 


June  5. 
Sheen. 


To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Suffolk.  Order  to  take  of 
Robert,  son  of  John  de  Tybetot  knight  and  Margaret  late  his  wife, 
security  for  payment  of  his  relief  at  the  exchequer,  and  to  cause  him  to 
have  seisin  of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Netlestede,  240  acres  of  land, 
30  acres  of  meadow,  4  acres  of  pasture,  3  acres  of  wood,  a  park  and 
4L  of  rent  in  Netlestede,  Little  Blakynham,  Braunford,  Somersham 
and  Boylham,  and  the  advowson  of  Blakynham  church,  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  the  said  John  ;    as  the  king  has 


41  EDWARD  III. 


341 


1367.  Mcrtibrane  \5—cont. 

learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John  and 
Margaret  jointly  held  tlie  manor  and  advowson  of  Netlestede,  which 
ixre  lield  in  chief  by  kniglit  service,  and  the  otlier  lands,  j)ark  and 
rent  and  tlie  advowson  of  Blakynhain,  which  are  not  iiekl  of  the 
king,  of  the  gift  of  Ralph  Spigurnell  knight  made  with  the  king's 
licence  to  tliem  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  the  said 
Robert  is  their  next  heir  and  of  full  age  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  his 
homage  and  fealty. 

Vacated  because  upon  the  Fine  Roll  word  for  word. 

July  15.  To  John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.  Order  to  cause 
Westminster.  John,  brotlier  of  WiHiani  son  and  heir  of  Durandus  Barde,  to  have 
seisin  of  a  messuage,  100  acres  of  land,  13J  acres  of  meadow,  2  acres 
of  wood,  a  parcel  of  pasture  and  365.  of  rent  in  Edelesburgh  which 
came  to  the  king's  hands  by  the  death  of  Durandus  and  by  reason 
of  the  nonage  of  tlie  said  William,  and  are  yet  in  his  hand  by  reason 
of  the  nonage  of  the  said  John  ;  as  the  king  laas  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  W^illiam  de  Otteford  late  escheator,  that  the  premises  came 
to  the  king's  hands  by  the  death  of  Durandus,  Avho  held  the  same 
in  chief  as  of  the  crown  by  the  service  of  the  moiety  of  one  knight's 
fee,  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  William  his  son  and  heir,  who 
died  within  age  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  and 
that  the  said  John  brother  of  William,  who  at  William's  death  was 
within  age,  is  next  heir  of  his  said  brother  and  now  of  full  age  ;  and 
the  king  has  taken  his  fealty,  and  respited  his  homage  until  the 
quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next. 


Membrane  14. 

June  28.  To  all  and  singular  the  sheriffs,  mayors,  ministers,  bailiff's  and 
Westminster,  other  the  king's  lieges  within  liberties  and  without  to  whom  etc. 
Order  and  command  to  suffer  the  prior  and  monks  of  Ely  and  their 
men  of  their  lordships  and  every  of  them  without  let  to  use  and  enjoy 
the  liberties  and  quittances  to  them  granted  by  charters  of  former 
kings  according  to  the  king's  grant  and  confirmation,  not  troubling 
them  in  anywise  contrary  thereto ;  as  among  other  liberties  so 
granted  them  it  is  granted  that  they  and  their  said  men  in  all  the  king's 
land  should  be  quit  of  toll  upon  buying  and  selling,  of  passage,  geld, 
danegeld,  and  the  common  forfeiture  of  shires  and  hundreds  ;  and 
the  king  has  confirmed  those  charters,  and  has  further  granted  them 
by  charter  tiiat  they  and  their  successors  should  thenceforward  use 
and  enjoy  the  liberties  aforesaid  and  every  of  them  although  in  any 
case  any  of  them  was  not  heretofore  used  by  them  or  their  predecessors. 
Et  erat  patens. 


July  1. 

Westminster. 


To  the  sheriffs,  mayors,  bailiffs  and  other  the  king's  lieges  to  v/hom 
etc.  Order  to  suffer  Simon  bishop  of  London,  the  dean  and  chapter 
of  the  church  of  St.  Paul  London  and  their  men  to  be  quit  of  toll, 
pontage,  passage,  payage,  lastage,  stallage,  tallage,  carriage,  pasnage 
and  all  other  customs  in  respect  of  all  their  goods  and  property  in 
whatsoever  places  within  the  districts  of  the  sheriffs  etc.  according 
to  the  charters  of  former  kings  and  to  the  king's  confirmation,  not 
troubling  them  in  anywise  contrary  thereto  and  restoring  anything 
of  tliem  taken  for  that  cause  ;  as  among  other  liberties  so  granted 
to  the  said  bishop,  dean  and  chapter  it  is  granted  that  they  and  their 


342 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1367. 


Membrane  14 — cont. 


men  shall  be  for  ever  quit  of  the  customs  aforesaid  throughout  the 
king's  land  in  respect  of  goods  carried  by  land  or  water,  and  by  the 
said  charters  it  is  forbidden  that  any  man  should  trouble  them,  their 
property  or  possessions,  lands  or  men  contrary  thereto  upon  pain  of 
forfeiting  lOZ.  ;  and  the  king  has  by  charter  confirmed  the  same, 
and  has  further  granted  that  they  and  their  successors  shall  without 
let  of  him,  his  heirs,  justices,  sheriffs,  bailiffs  or  ministers  whatsoever 
thenceforward  use  and  enjoy  those  liberties  and  quittances  though 
they  or  their  predecessors  severally  or  in  common  did  not  before  use 
the  same  or  any  of  them. 
Et  erat  patens. 

July  17.  To  Richard  de  Wide vy lie  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.  Order 
Westminster,  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  3  acres 
of  land  and  2s.  of  rent  of  John  Colyns  in  Byfeld,  delivering  up  any 
issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  lately  ordered  the  escheator  to 
certify  in  chancery  under  his  seal  the  cause  wherefore  the  premises 
were  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  by  virtue  of  that  command 
he  certified  that  he  so  took  the  same  for  that  John  Mareschall  without 
the  king's  licence  gave  them  to  the  fabric  of  the  church  of  Byfeld, 
and  towards  finding  two  candles  burning  continually  in  the  said  church 
as  well  on  feast  days  as  on  week  days,  contrary  to  the  statute  of 
mortmain ;  and  the  king  considers  that  cause  undue  and  insufficient. 


June  24.  To  Philip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  Staffordshire,  Salop  and  Glou- 
Westminster.  cestershire.  Order  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of 
Charteleye  and  hamlet  of  Drengeton  co.  Stafford,  the  manor  of 
Wrokwardyn,  a  toft  and  one  carucate  of  land  at  Yeye  co.  Salop,  and 
a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Beggeworth  co.  Gloucester  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  de  Ferrariis  knight,  delivering 
to  Elizabeth  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  divers  inquisitions,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said 
John  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  those  counties  in  chief  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee  whereby  the  wardship  of  his  lands  ought  at  present 
to  pertain  to  the  king,  but  held  the  premises  in  Staffordshire  jointly 
with  the  said  Elizabeth  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Edmund  Morteyn 
and  Richard  de  Stafford,  and  the  premises  in  Salop  and  Gloucester- 
shire in  right  of  the  said  Elizabeth  as  jointly  enfeoffed  with  Fulk  son 
of  John  Lestraunge  her  first  husband  of  the  gift  of  the  said  John 
Lestraunge  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his  licence,  and 
that  the  manor  of  Wrokwardyn  is  held  in  chief  by  the  service  of  paying 
yearly  81.  at  the  exchequer  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  of  Salop  for  the 
time  being,  the  other  manors  etc.  of  others  than  the  king. 

To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Wiltes.  Order  not  to  meddle 
further  with  the  manor  of  Broghton  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
the  death  of  John  de  Ferrariis  knight,  delivering  to  Elizabeth  late 
his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John  at  his  death 
held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but 
held  the  said  manor  in  right  of  the  said  Elizabeth  as  jointly  enfeoffed 
with  Fulk  Lestrange  her  first  husband  of  the  gift  of  John  Lestrange 
father  of  the  said  Fulk,  and  that  the  same  is  not  held  of  the  king. 


41   EDWARD   III.  343 


13C7.  Membrane  14 — cont. 

July  4.  To  John  do  OIik^j^o  csohcator  in  Cambridgeshire.     Order  not  to 

VVeslminstor.  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of  Hardleston  and  Jiurghwell  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  Tibetot,  delivering  up  any 
issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  lias  learned  by  divers  inquisitions, 
taken  by  the  cscheator,  that  the  said  John  at  his  death  held  no  lands 
in  that  county  in  chief  nor  of  any  other  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but 
long  before  his  death  aliened  the  manor  of  Hardleston  in  fee  to 
Andrew  de  Wauton,  Clement  de  Brethenham,  Philip  Chamberleyn 
and  Richard  Basly,  who  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  after  gave 
the  same  to  the  said  John  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  (yet  living)  and 
to  the  heirs  male  of  their  bodies,  that  he  likewise  aliened  the  manor 
of  Burghwell  in  fee  to  the  said  Andrew,  Clement  and  Philip,  who  after 
by  indenture  demised  the  same  to  him  for  a  term  of  years  not  yet 
expired  with  reversion  to  themselves,  without  that  that  at  his  death 
the  said  John  had  any  estate  in  the  manor  last  named  but  for  a  term 
of  years  only,  and  that  the  said  manors  are  held  of  others  than  the 
king. 

June  24.  To  Thomas  de  Wythornewyk  escheator  within  the  liberty  of  Holder- 
Westmiiistor.  nessc.  Order  not  to  meddle  further  with  divers  lands  within  that 
liberty  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  de  Faucomberge, 
delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John  at  his  death 
held  no  lands  within  the  said. liberty  in  chief  as  of  the  crown  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee  whereby  the  wardship  of  his  lands  ought  at  present 
to  pertain  to  the  king,  but  held  divers  lands  there  of  others  than 
the  king  as  well  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  as  jointly  with  Alice  late 
his  wife,  who  is  yet  living. 

July  8.  To  John  Louekyn  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and    escheator 

Westminster,  therein.  Order  to  take  of  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  WilUam  de 
Pultenay  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence, 
and  to  assign  her  dower  of  44^.  85.  10|rf.  of  rent  whereof  her  said 
husband  died  seised,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled 
in  chancery  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
said  mayor,  that  the  said  William  at  his  death  was  seized  of  the  rent 
aforesaid  as  parcel  of  100  marks  which  the  king  lately  by  charter 
gave  to  John  de  Pultenaye  knight  his  father  and  to  the  heirs  male 
of  his  body,  to  be  taken  yearly  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriffs  of  London 
for  the  time  being,  501.  of  Queen  Hythe  of  the  said  city  and 
IGl.  13s.  4:d.  of  the  farm  of  the  city,  and  that  the  said  William  died 
without  an  heir  of  his  body. 

July  10.  To  Richard  de  Wydeville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.  Order 
Westininsier.  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of  Castell  Assheby  and 
Brinkton  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  William  de  la 
Pole  the  younger  knight,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as 
the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
said  William  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  nor 
of  others  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  long  before  his 
death  enfeoffed  John  Moubray  knight,  John  de  Codyngton,  Robert 
de  Charwalton,  William  de  Bifeld  clerks,  John  Bataille,  William  de 
Lyndesele  and  John  Baker  and  their  heirs  of  the  manors  aforesaid, 
and  that  the  same  are  not  held  of  the  king. 


344 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1367.  Membrane  13. 

Proceedings  in  a  parliament  holden  at  Westminster  4  May  40 
Edward  III,  and  before  the  council,  between  Elizabeth  wife  of 
Nicholas  Daudeleye  and  Sir  James  Daudeleye  father  of  the  said 
Nicholas  ;  and  final  agreement  that  the  said  Sir  James,  Isabel  his 
wife,  James  and  Thomas  their  sons  should  before  the  month  of 
Easter  then  next  make  to  the  said  Nicholas  and  Elizabeth  for  their 
lives  an  estate  of  the  heritage  of  Sir  William  Martyn  to  the  value  of 
120^,  a  year,  and  pay  1,000, marks  damages,  and  that  Sir  James  should 
make  no  alienation  nor  demise  of  his  lands  nor  waste  of  his  woods 
[as  above,  pp.  237-9).     French. 

Copy  writ,  tested  at  Lyndhurst  10  July  [40  Edward  III],  command- 
ing the  said  James  de  Audeley  lord  of  Heley,  under  a  pain  of  6,000Z., 
to  fulfil  the  covenants  in  dispute  {as  above,  p.  239).     By  K.  and  C. 

At  which  month  of  Easter  last  came  the  said  Elizabeth  and  Sir 
James  in  person  before  the  council,  and  Elizabeth  prayed  for 
execution  of  the  award  and  judgment  for  her  rendered  on  the  morrow  of 
St.  John  last,  inasmuch  as  Sir  James  had  not  fulfilled  nor  would  fulfil 
the  said  agreement ;    and  Sir  James  said  that  he  held  parcel  of  the 

Membrane  12. 

said  heritage  of  Martyn  for  his  life  with  remainder  to  the  king  and 
his  heirs,  other  parcels  thereof  jointly  with  his  wife  for  their  lives 
with  divers  remainders  in  tail  to  some  of  his  children  and  to  the 
heirs  male  of  their  several  bodies  successively,  remainder  for  lack  of 
such  issue  to  Sir  James  and  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  their 
bodies,  remainder  for  lack  of  such  issue  to  the  king,  and  another 
parcel  jointly  ^^dth  his  wife  for  their  lives  with  remainder  to  some  of 
his  children  in  fee  tail,  as  appears  by  a  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court, 
and  remainder  for  lack  of  such  issue  to  his  right  heirs,  wherefore  he  has 
not  power  to  perform  the  said  agreement ;  and  the  said  Elizabeth 
said  that  those  joint  feoffments  and  entails  were  made  after  the 
indenture  made  between  the  said  Sir  James  and  Dame  Alice  de 
Beaumont  countess  of  Bogham  touching  the  marriage  of  the  said 
Nicholas  and  Elizabeth,  and  contrary  to  the  tenor  thereof,  wherefore 
she  prayed  for  execution  as  before,  and  thereupon  of  respect  to  the 
council  and  at  the  request  of  Sir  James  she  consented  to  treat  for  an 
agreement  with  him,  and  the  council  gave  the  parties  a  day  at  the 
octaves  of  Trinity.  At  which  day  came  the  said  Elizabeth  in  person 
and  Sir  James  by  Fulk  Corbet,  Robert  Hacche  and  others  with  full 
warrant  to  treat,  do  and  receive  what  the  council  should  order,  and 
after  great  deliberation  were  not  able  to  agree,  wherefore  the  said 
Ehzabeth  shewed  how  Sir  James  might  not  assure  to  her  any  lands 
of  the  said  heritage  of  Martyn  for  the  causes  above  recited,  nor  of  any 
other  lands  in  his  hands  by  reason  of  other  entails,  nor  yet  would  he 
make  her  an  estate  of  the  lands  so  entailed  ;  and  thereupon  the  said 
Fulk  and  his  fellows  \A'ere  by  the  council  asked  if  they  would  agree 
to  make  her  and  her  husband  an  estate  of  the  lands  entailed  according 
to  the  said  indenture  in  case  they  would  receive  the  same  those 
entails  notwithstanding,  and  they  said  they  would  not,  wherefore 
Elizabeth  prayed  that  a  sum  of  money  should  be  adjudged  to  her 
husband  and  herself  to  the  value  of  200  marks  of  land  a  year  which 
her  husband  and  she  ought  to  have  had  by  force  of  the  said  indenture, 
and  execution  for  damages  for  withholding  the  same  from  the  death 
of  Dame  Eleanor  de  Columbers,  who  died  in  the  16th  year  of  the 


41    EDWARD    III.  345 


1367.  •  Membrane  12 — cont. 

reign  after  a  term  of  six  years  in  the  same  indenture  named,  and  for 
her  damages  and  costs  in  this  suit;  and  award  was  made. that  the  said 
Nicliolas  and  Elizabetli  should  recover  2,000  marks  for  the  value  of 
the  said  200  marks  a  year  of  land  which  were  in  reversion  at  the 
date  of  the  said  indcTiture,  and  have  1,600  marks  for  withholding 
the  same  after  the  deatli  of  Dame  do  Watcville  who  died  eight  years 
before,  as  w^as  acknowledged  and  agreed  between  the  parties,  and 
for  the  residue  of  the  damages  claimed  from  the  death  of  the  said 
Dame  Eleanor  and  for  her  costs  in  this  suit  the  council  will  advise  ; 
and  thereupon  a  day  was  given  to  the  parties  at  the  quinzaine  of 
Michaelmas  next,  and  Sir  James  should  be  at  the  king's  will  in  regard 
to  the  pain  of  G,OOOZ.  At  which  day  caiuo  the  parties,  and  the  process 
was  continued  to  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  [42  Edward  III],  at  which 
time  came  the  said  Nicholas  and  Elizabeth,  and  acknowledged  before 
the  council  and  in  chancery  that  by  virtue  of  the  judgments  and 
award  above  rehearsed  Sir  James  had  paid  them  the  3,600  marks 
afoi'esaid,  as  appears  by  their  acquittance  enrolled  in  chancery,  to 
wit,  2,000  marks  for  the  value  of  the  said  200  marks  a  year  of  land  in 
revei'sion  at  the  date  of  the  above  mentioned  indenture,  and  1,600 
marks  for  withholding  the  same  ;  and  thereupon  the  king  by  infor- 
mation of  the  council  released  and  pardoned  Sir  James  the  pain  of 
6,000^.  imposed  upon  him,  so  that  in  time  to  come  he,  his  heirs  or 
executors  should  not  be  impeached  nor  troubled  for  the  same,  save 
always  that  other  matters  in  the  same  record  contained  which  were 
not  determined  should  be  in  the  same  state  as  they  then  were  ;  and 
then  at  the  instance  of  the  said  Elizabeth  Sir  James  was  asked  in  court, 
and  a  day  w^as  given  her  at  the  quinzaine  of  Trinity  to  sue  for  the 
award  and  advisement  of  the  council  in  that  behalf  ;  whereupon  she 
appointed  John  Gour  and  Roger  atte  Nasshe  her  attorneys  for  that 
purpose.  At  w^hich  day,  for  that  all  pleas  pending  in  court,  in 
chancery,  in  the  exchequer  and  before  the  justices  of  either  Bench 
were  by  reason  of  the  plague  adjourned  to  the  octaves  of  Michaelmas 
following,  the  said  Elizabeth  came  in  person  at  the  day  last  mentioned 
in  chancery  and  prayed  a  further  day  a.t  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Hillary 
following  [43  Edward  HI},  which  day  was  given  at  her  request.  At 
which  day  she  came,  and  at  her  request  a  further  day  was  given  at 
three  weeks  after  Easter  following.     French. 

Membrane  11. 

June  30.  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  to  deliver 
Westmmster.  in  dower  to  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  Ralph  Bulmere  tenant  in  chief 
such  as  are  in  his  bailiwick  of  the  manors  and  lands  hereinafter  men- 
tioned which  the  king,  after  taking  of  her  an  oath  that  she  will 
not  marry  without  his  licence,  has  assigned  her  of  her  said 
husband's  lands  in  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by 
reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  with  the  assent  of  Richard  de 
Ravenser  the  king's  clerk,  treasurer  of  Queen  Philippa  to  whom  the 
king  has  granted  the  wardship  of  the  said  lands  until  the  lawful  age 
of  the  said  heir,  namely  the  manor  of  Bulmere  with  certain  lands  in 
Welbourne  co.  York  which  are  parcel  thereof  to  the  value  of  201.,  the 
manor  of  Thornton  under  Risbergh,  co.  York,  2  acres  of  meadow  in 
Kirkeby  Mysperton  and  2s.  of  rent  in^ittle  Bergli  all  parcel  of  the  said 
manor  to  the  value  of  100s.,  the  manor  of  Boythorp  to  the  value  of  7 
marks,  certain  lands  in  Laysyngby  to  the  value  of  \\l.  6s.  8(Z.,  certain, 


346 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1367. 


Membrane  11 — cont. 


Nov.  28. 

Westminster. 

Dec.  28. 

Westminster. 

Oct.  1. 

Westminster. 


lands  in  Attyngwyk  in  Holdernesse  to  the  value  of  11  marks,  and 
certain  lands  in  Harleston,  Heyford,  Brynghton  and  Colyntroughe  co. 
Norhampton  to  the  value  of  100s.  6d.  a  year,  to  hold  in  dower  of  all 
the  lands  of  the  said  Ralph  as  well  within  the  liberty  of  the  bishopric 
of  Durham  as  in  whatsoever  counties  of  England,  so  that  if  the  said 
lands  in  Norhamptonshire  exceed  the  yearly  value  of  100s.  6c?.  the 
said  Margaret  shall  answer  for  the  surplus  to  the  said  queen  until  the 
lawful  age  of  the  said  heir,  and  to  the  said  heir  when  of  age. 

To  Thomas  de  Wythornwyk  escheator  within  the  liberty  of 
Holdernesse.  Order  to  deliver  in  dower  to  Margaret  who  was  wife 
of  Ralph  Bulmere  tenant  in  chief  certain  lands  in  Attyngwyk  in 
Holdernesse  which  the  king  has  assigned  to  her  to  the  value  of  11 
marks  a  year. 

To  Richard  Wydeville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.  Order  to 
deliver  in  dower  to  the  same  Margaret  certain  lands  in  Harleston, 
Heyford,  Brynghton  and  Colyngtroughe  to  the  value  of  100s.  6d.  a 
year  which  the  king  has  assigned  to  her,  so  that  if  the  same  shall 
exceed  that  value  she  shall  answer  for  the  surplus  {as  above). 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
instead  of  William  Alysaundre,  who  is  stricken  in  years. 


Order  to  the  sheriff  of    Wiltes  to  cause  a  coroner  to 
instead  of  John  Harnham,  who  is  dead. 


be  elected 


To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  to  take 
of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  Lely  the  younger  tenant  in  chief  an 
oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign 
her  doA^  er  of  the  hands  of  her  said  husband  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  his  death,  sending  the  assignment  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 


Membrane  10. 

Aug.  22.  To  Philip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  Herefordshire  and  the  march 
Havering,  of  Wales  adjoining.  Order  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage, 
a  garden  and  five  bovates  of  land  in  Westwilliamston  co.  Pembroke 
in  the  said  march  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Welthian 
who  was  wife  of  Henry  Bertelot  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of 
John  Bertlot  and  so  in  the  king's  hand,  saving  to  the  king  the  issues 
thereof  taken  and  the  marriage  of  the  said  heir,  if  the  same  ought  to 
pertain  to  the  king  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Welthian  at  her  death  held  no  lands 
in  the  county  and  march  aforesaid  in  chief,  but  as  jointly  enfeoffed 
with  her  said  husband  held  the  premises  by  knight  service  of  the 
heir  of  John  Carreu,  late  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  that  the 
escheator  has  occupied  the  same  since  her  death,  who  died  on  Monday 
after  Midsummer  in  the  36th  year  of  the  reign,  by  reason  of  the 
nonage  of  the  said  John  Bertelot,  son  and  heir  of  the  said  Henry  and 
Welthian,  and  that  the  said  John  Bertlot  is  now  of  the  age  of  21 
years  and  upwards  ;  and  lately  on  proof  of  the  age  of  Leonard  son 
and  heir  of  the  said  John  Carreu,  the  king  took  his  fealty,  and  com- 
manded livery  to  be  given  him  of  the  lands  of  his  said  father. 


41  EDWARD  ITI.  347 


1307,  Membrane  lO-amt. 

Aug.  20.  To  Philip  do  Lutteley  escheator  in  Glouccstersliire.  Order  to 
Havering,  deliver  the  manor  of  Bikenore,  taken  into  tlu;  king's  hand  by  the  d(^ath 
of  John  de  Ferrariis  kniglit,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken, 
to  the  next  friend  of  tlie  said  John's  lu^ir  to  whom  tlie  lieritage  may 
not  descend,  to  bo  kept  to  the  heir's  use;  until  his  lawful  age,  saving 
to  the  king  the  rent  of  15s.  a  year;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John  at  liis  death 
held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  whereby  the  wardship  of  his 
lands  ought  at  present  to  pertain  to  the  king,  but  held  the  said  manor 
in  chief  by  the  service  of  rendering  to  the  king  156".  a  year  at  Newenhani, 
and  that  Robert  his  son  in  his  next  heir,  and  of  the  age  of  7  years  and 
upwards. 

Sept.  3.  To  the  justiciary  and  chancellor  of  Ireland  for  the  time  being,  or 

Westiuinstor.  to  their  representatives.  Order,  if  assured  by  inquisition  or  otherwise 
that  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Ralph  Petit  tenant  in  chief  has  without 
the  king's  licence  married  Henry  de  Ferrariis  knight,  as  the  king  is 
informed,  to  cause  all  the  lands  in  Ireland  held  by  the  said  Henry 
and  Joan  to  her  dower  after  the  death  of  the  said  Ralph  to  be  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  and  committed  to  the  said  Henry  for  the  extent 
thereof  yearly  to  be  rendered  at  the  exchequer  of  Ireland,  until  the 
said  Henry  and  Joan  shall  make  fine  with  the  king  or  otherwise  content 
him  for  that  trespass  according  to  the  statute.  By  C. 

Sept.  15.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Huntingdon  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Richard  Alberd,  who  is  dead. 

Sept.  23.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London  for  the  time  being.  Order  of  the  farm 
Westminster,  of  the  said  city  to  pay  every  year  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even 
portions  from  8  July  last  to  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  William  de 
Pultenay  14L  165.  3Jc?.  to  her  assigned  for  dower,  taking  her  acquit- 
tance at  every  such  term  ;  as  on  the  finding  of  an  inquisition,  taken 
at  the  king's  command  by  John  Louekyn  mayor  of  the  said  city  and 
escheator  therein,  that  the  said  William  at  his  death  was  seised  of 
44Z.  85.  lO^d.  of  rent,  as  parcel  of  100  marks  which  the  king  by  charter 
lately  gave  to  John  de  Pultenay  knight  father  of  the  said  William 
and  to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  to  be  taken  yearly  by  the  hands  of 
the  sheriffs  at  the  said  terms,  namely  50Z.  of  Queenhithe  of  the  said 
city  and  16Z.  135.  4:d.  of  the  farm  of  the  city,  on  the  day  above 
mentioned  the  king  ordered  the  said  escheator  to  take  of  the  said 
Margaret  an  oath  that  she  would  not  marry  without  his  licence,  and 
to  assign  her  dower  of  the  said  44Z.  85.  lO^d.,  sending  the  assignment 
to  be  enrolled  in  chancery  ;  and  the  said  escheator  by  virtue  of  that 
command  assigned  her  the  first  mentioned  sum  to  be  taken  yearly 
as  aforesaid  for  her  life,  as  by  his  certificate  may  appear. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Oct.  6.  To  John  Bernard  escheator  in  Warwickshire  and  Leycestershire. 

Windsor.      Order  to  cause  William  Prilly,  brother  and  heir  of  Hugh  son  and  lieir 

of  Peter  Prilly  tenant  in  chief,  to  have  seisin  of    the  lands  of    his 

.  father  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of   the 

:  nonage  of  the  said  Hugh,  who  died  within    age    and    in  the    king's 

wardship,  and  yet  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the 

said  William  ;    as  he  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the 

king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  K. 


348 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


Oct.  12. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  18. 

Westminster. 


1367.  Membrane  10 — cont. 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire. 
John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire. 
Richard  de  Wydevylle  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton.  Order  to  survey  all  defects  in  the 
wall  of  the  king's  park  of  Multon,  and  of  the  issues  of  his  bailiwick  to 
cause  the  needful  repairs  to  bo  done,  by  advice  of  Hugh  de  Wake 
keeper  of  the  said  park. 

To  John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Kent.  Order  to  cause  the  priory  of 
Bilsyngton  and  the  temporalities  thereof  to  be  delivered  to  Edmund 
as  prior,  together  with  the  issues  of  the  same,  according  to  a  resti- 
tution made  him  in  the  court  of  Rome  ;  as  lately  the  king  ordered 
the  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  the  said 
priory  and  temporalities  were  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and 
he  certified  that  Simon  late  arclibishop  of  Canterbury  in  his  visitation 
long  before  liis  death  deprived  the  said  Edmund,  expelled  him  from  the 
said  priory  and  for  evil  behaviour  in  the  ruling  thereof  caused  him  to 
be  imprisoned  at  Ledes,  appointing  John  de  Romeneye  as  prior,  who 
behaved  well  so  long  as  he  was  there,  that  after  the  said  archbishop's 
death  the  said  Edmund  contrary  to  the  king's  prohibition  departed 
out  of  the  realm  to  the  court  of  Rome,  returned  to  England  with 
papal  bulls,  and  without  the  king's  licence  intruded  himself  into  the 
said  priory  and  temporalities  without  doing  fealty  and  other  services 
due  to  the  king,  and  that  for  this  cause  he  took  the  same  into  the 
king's  hand  ;  and  it  is  clear  by  letters  of  the  papal  see,  produced 
before  the  king  in  chancery,  that  the  said  Edmund  was  restored  to 
the  estate  which  he  formerly  had  as  prior  by  process  in  the  court  of 
Rome  ;  and  for  that  cause,  and  for  IOO5.  by  him  paid,  the  king  of 
his  favour  has  pardoned  the  said  Edmund  the  contempt  and  trespasses 
committed  in  this  matter,  and  has  restored  to  him  the  said  priory 
and  temporalities,  together  with  the  issues  thereof,  to  hold  as  before 
they  were  so  taken  into  the  king's  hand.  By  C. 

Nov.  10.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Leycester  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  John  Charnels,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Nov.  4.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  William  de  Paunton  of  Lincoln,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 


Membrane  9. 

Oct.  26.  To  Thomas  Cheyne  constable  of  Wyndesore  castle,  or  to  his 
Westminster,  lieutenant.  Order  of  the  issues  of  the  manor  of  Clyware  to  pay  to 
Isabel  who  Avas  wife  of  John  Brocas  every  year  at  Easter  and 
Michaelmas  by  even  portions  during  her  life  for  her  dower  thereof 
a  third  part  of  81.  5s.  Old.,  taking  her  acquittance  from  time  to  time  ; 
as  it  is  found  by  certificate  of  the  said  lieutenant,  sent  into  chancery 
by  the  king's  command,  that  the  said  John's  manor  of  Clyware  is  of 
that  yearly   value  by  estimation.  By  K. 

Oct.  20.  To  the  executors  of  Ralph  de  Neville.     Writ  de  intendendo,  corn- 

Westminster,  manding  them  at  their  peril  before  Michaelmas  next  to  cause  all 
defects  in  the  king's  castle  of  Baumburgh  and  the  great  tower  there 


41  EDWARD  in.  349 


1367.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

contained  in  a  cortificato  made  at  the  king's  command  by  Richard 
de  Penibrugge  now  warden  and  constable  thereof,  of  wliicih  a  copy 
is  enclosed,  and  all  other  defects  therein  and  in  the  mills,  houses  and 
other  buildings,  ponds  and  ditches  pertaining  to  the  said  castle  and 
the  lordship  thereof,  to  be  repaired  by  survey  and  advice  of  Aymer 
de  Athell,  Alaiv  de  Heton,  John  do  Fenewyk,  Henry  de  Strother,  William 
de  la  Vale  and  Alan  de  Strother,  whom  the  king  has  appointed  to 
survey  all  such  defects  and  cause  them  to  be  repaired  at  the  costs  of 
the  said  executors  of  the  goods  and  chattels  of  the  said  Ralph  late 
warden  and  constable  thereof,  who  was  bound  especially  to  repair 
the  same  because  all  the  time  that  he  had  the  ward  j^hereof  he  took 
all  issues  and  profits  and  all  other  things  pertaining  to  the  said  castle, 
the  town  of  Baumburgh  and  the  lordships  thereof,  also  commanding 
them  to  obey  the  said  overseers  as  notice  shall  be  given  them, 
so  that  by  their  default  no  hurt  nor  peril  may  happen  to  the  said 
castle  ;  as  there  are  great  number  of  defects  in  the  said  castle  and 
tower,  as  in  houses,  turrets,  A\'alls  and  other  buildings,  and  in  the 
mills,  houses  and  buildings,  ponds  and  ditches  aforesaid,  which  arose 
in  the  time  that  the  said  Ralph  was  constable  by  the  king's  grant,  and 
w'ere  not  by  him  repaired  nor  yet  are,  as  by  the  said  certificate 
appears.  By  K.  and  C. 

Oct.  6.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  to  receive  by  indenture  from 

Westminster.  Peter  Sterre  of  London  and  his  deputies  all  forfeited  cloths  which 
he  or  they  shall  deliver  to  the  sheriffs  to  the  king's  use  for  the  time 
of  his  farm  of  tlie  subsidy  of  cloths  in  the  city  of  London  and  Mid- 
dlesex lately  granted  to  the  king  by  the  commons  of  the  realm  for 
remission  of  the  forfeiture  of  the  alnage  anciently  laid  thereon,  to 
cause  the  same  to  be  appraised  and  sold  as  they  shall  find  to  the  king's 
best  advantage  in  presence  and  by  advice  of  the  said  Peter,  and  one 
moiety  of  the  forfeitures  according  to  the  form  of  his  lease  to  be 
delivered  to  the  said  Peter  for  his  pains  in  aid  of  his  farm,  and  to 
answer  for  the  other  moiety  in  their  account  at  the  exchequer  ;  as 
lately  by  indenture  made  between  the  king  and  the  said  Peter  the  king 
granted  him  to  farm  the  subsidy  aforesaid  for  one  year  from 
Michaelmas  in  the  40th  year  of  his  reign,  rendering  to  the  king  for 
that  year  100  marks  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  ; 
and  whereas  in  the  statute  it  is  contained  that  all  cloths  exposed  for 
sale  before  being  sealed  with  the  seal  appointed  for  the  purpose  shall 
be  confiscated  to  the  king,  the  said  Peter  and  his  deputies  are  thereby 
bound  to  deliver  by  indenture  to  the  sheriffs  all  cloths  found  so 
forfeited  within  the  year  in  the  said  city  and  county,  and  the  sheriffs 
to  answer  for  those  forfeitures  upon  their  account,  so  that  the  said 
Peter  and  his  deputies  shall  be  discharged  from  accounting  for  the 
same  ;  and  for  the  diligence  to  be  shewn  by  him  for  the  king's 
advantage  in  that  behalf  and  in  aid  of  his  fa^rm  the  king  has  granted 
that  he  shall  have  the  moiety  of  such  forfeitures.  The  king's  will 
is  that  the  sheriffs  be  discharged  toward  him  of  the  moiety  delivered 
to  the  said  Peter. 

Oct.  28.         To   Walter   de   Kelby   escheator  in   Lincolnshire.     Order  to   take 

Westminster,  the  fealty  of  Joan  the  wife  of  Philip  de  Lymbury  knight  according 

to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  not  to  meddle  further  A\ith  a 

moiety  of  the  manor  of  Nocton  and  divers  other  lands  taken  into  the 


350 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1367d 


Membrane  9 — cont. 


king's  hand  by  the  death  of  the  said  Phihp,  delivering  to  her  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  the  said  Philip  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that 
county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  jointly  with  the 
■said  Joan  the  said  moiety,  which  is  held  in  chief,  of  the  gift  of  Adam 
de  Lymbergh  canon  of  the  church  of  St.  Mary  Lincoln,  Robert  parson 
of  a  mediety  of  Lesyngton,  Richard  Arnald,  Walter  de  Poynton  and 
William  Pylat  made  with  the  king's  licence  to  them  and  the  heirs 
of  their  bodies,  and  likewise  divers  other  lands  of  others  than  the  king. 

To  John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire  and  Bedfordshire. 
Order  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of  Ichyngton  and  Horseth, 
a  messuage  and  8  acres  of  land  in  Ichyngton,  a  messuage  in  Streteleye 
called  Gambonesplace,  20  acres  of  land  and  2  acres  of  wood  in  tjae 
said  town  of  Streteleye,  and  a  messuage,  100  acres  of  land,  2  acres 
1  rood  of  meadow  in  Hyngston  co.  Cantebrigge,  the  manor  of  Lymbury 
and  4  acres  of  land  in  Cadyngton  co.  Bedford,  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  Philip  de  Lymbury  knight,  delivering  to  Joan 
late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisitions,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Philip  at  his  death 
held  no  lands  in  those  counties  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but 
held  the  premises  jointly  with  the  said  Joan  of  the  gift  of  Adam  de 
Lymbergh  canon  of  the  church  of  St.  Mary  Lincoln,  Robert  parson 
of  a  mediety  of  Esyngham,  Richard  Arnald,  Walter  de  Poynton 
and  William  Pylat  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that 
the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

Nov.  21.  To  Roger  de  Wolf  ret  on  escheator  in  Essex.  Order  to  deliver  to 
Westminster.  Richard  de  Lyouns  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Liston  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  William  de  Liston, 
together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  of  a  grant  made  and  by 
fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his  licence  by  Thomas  son  and 
heir  of  the  said  William  sometime  husband  of  Joan,  to  whom  the 
reversion  pertained,  the  said  Joan  at  her  death  held  for  life  the  said 
manor  and  advowson,  which  are  held  in  chief  by  the  service  of 
finding  the  king  one  '  waferer  '  on  the  day  of  his  coronation,  with 
reversion  to  the  said  Richard  and  his  heirs  ;  and  the  king  has  taken 
the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  Richard. 


Oct.  26. 

Westminster. 


To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Yorkshire,  Northumberland 
and  Cumberland.  Order  to  deliver  of  the  king's  gift  to  John  son  and 
heir  of  Ralph  de  Neville  tenant  in  chief  all  issues  and  profits  taken 
of  the  lands  of  his  said  father  from  the  time  of  his  death  ;  as  the  king 
lately  took  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  John,  and  commanded 
livery  to  be  given  him  of  the  said  lands  ;  and  of  his  favour  and  for 
60Z.  by  the  said  John  paid  in  the  hanaper  of  chancery  the  king  has 
granted  him  the  issues  and  profits  thereof  as  aforesaid. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Norffolk,  Suffolk  and  Essex. 
Ricliard  de  Wydeville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire. 
John  Louekyn  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator  therein. 
William  de  Acton  mayor  of  the  town  of  Newcastle  upon  Tync  and 
escheator  therein. 


41    EDWARD   III.  351 


1307.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

Oct.  10.  To    John   do   Scotherskclf   esc  heater   in   Nortliumbcrland.     Order 

Westminster,  to  deliver  to  Henry  de  Percy  '  le  piere  '  now  lord  of  Ahiewyk,  son  and 
heir  of  Henry  de  Percy  late  lord  tliereof,  the  manor  of  Ncuburn  witli 
its  members  etc.  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Ralph 
de  Neville,  together  with  the  issnes  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Ralph 
at  his  death  held  for  life  the  said  manor  and  members,  which  are  held 
in  eliief,  of  the  grant  of  the  said  Henry  deceased  made  by  the  king's 
licence,  with  reversion  to  the  said  Henry  '  le  piere  '  his  son  who  is  of 
full  age  ;  and  the  king  lately  took  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the 
said  Henry  son  of  Henry,  and  commanded  livery  to  be  given  him 
of  the  lands  of  his  heritage. 

Oct.  13.  To  John  de  Scotherskclf  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  not  to 

Westminstor.  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Thoraldeby,  the  town  of  Neubyggyng 
and  the  advowson  of  Aykesgarth  church  excepted,  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Ralph  de  Neville,  delivering  up  any 
issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Ralph  at  his  death  held  the  said  manor 
for  life  (the  said  town  and  advowson  excepted)  with  remainder  to 
Robert  de  Neville  his  son  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  and  that 
the  same  is  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

Membrane  8. 

Nov.  26.  To  the  brethren  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Bartholomew  by  Oxford. 
Westminster.  Writ  de  intendendo  in  favour  of  the  provost  and  scholars  of  St. 
Mary  Hall  Oxford,  commanding  the  said  brethren  at  their  peril 
to  view  the  king's  letters  patent,  and  to  cause  all  and  singular 
the  articles  therein  contained  and  expressed  for  the  rule  and 
governance  of  the  said  hospital  to  be  observed  and  kept  so 
far  as  in  them  lies;  as  lately  by  charter  the  king  gave  to 
the  said  provost  and  scholars  and  to  their'  successors  the 
hospital  aforesaid,  which  is  of  the  foundation  of  former  kings,  and 
wherein  are  one  chaplain  and  eight  brethren,  of  whom  two  ought  to 
be  whole  and  six  infirm  ;  and  after  being  informed  that  the  brethren 
took  no  heed  to  be  intendant  to  the  said  provost  and  scholars  touching 
the  governance  of  the  hospital,  for  that  there  is  no  ordinance  or  rule 
whereby  they  may  be  governed,  because  of  their  wilful  and  dishonest 
[behaviour],  whereby  increasing  scandal  has  arisen  in  those  parts 
and  the  hospital  is  subjected  to  grievous  hurt  and  destruction, 
willing  to  provide  for  the  good  ruling  and  safety  thereof,  the  king 
by  advice  of  the  council  has  thought  good  to  appoint  certain  articles 
and  observances  in  the  form  in  the  said  letters  patent  expressed  for 
the  good  ruling  thereof  to  be  there  observed  and  kept  for  ever,  and  it 
is  his  will  that  they  shall  be  so  observed  and  kept  by  the  brethren  and 
every  of  them,  and  that  every  brother  when  admitted  shall  be  sworn 
not  to  offend  against  them  in  any  wise  ;  and  further  the  king  by  his 
letters  patent  has  granted  to  the  said  provost,  his  deputies  or  sub- 
stitutes, faculty  to  correct  and  reform  any  errors  or  excesses  they  may 
find  in  the  said  hospital  in  persons,  property  or  possessions. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Nov.  5.  To  John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Kent  and  Sussex.     Order  to  cause 

Westminster.  Thomas,  brother  and  heir  of  Alan  son  and  heir  of  Henry  Fitz  Roger 


352 


CALENDAR   OF    CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1367. 


Membrane  8 — cont. 


tenant  in  chief,  to  have  seisin  of  the  lands  of  the  said  Henry  which 
came  to  the  king's  hands  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage 
of  the  said  Alan,  and  are  in  his  hand  ;  as  the  said  AJan  died  within 
age  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  the  said  Thomas  has  proved  his  age 
before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  of  his  favour  has  respited  his  homage 
and  fealty  during  pleasure. 

Nov.  15.  To  Philip  de  Luttcleye  escheator  in  Gloucestershire  and  the  march 
Westminster,  of  Wales  adjoining.  Order  to  take  the  fealty  of  John  Arundell,  who 
with  the  king's  licence  has  taken  to  wife  Joan  \or  Juliana]  daughter 
of  William  de  Luscote  and  Alice  his  wife,  according  to  the  form  of 
a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  cause  them  to  have  seisin  of  the  said  Joan's 
purparty  of  the  lands  of  Thomas  Achard  ;  as  on  20  October  in  the 
36th  year  of  the  reign,  on  the  finding  of  an  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  the  said  Thomas  at  his  death  held  in  his  demesne  as 
of  fee  8  acres  of  pasture,  lis.  Ad.  of  rent,  and  the  third  part  of  a 
messuage  and  one  carucate  of  land  at  Redwyk  in  the  march  aforesaid 
in  chief  by  knight  service  as  his  purparty  of  the  lands  of  John  de 
Knovylle  tenant  in  chief,  by  a  partition  made  between  the  said  Thomas, 
the  said  William  and  Alice  late  his  wife  deceased,  sister  and  heir  of 
Michael  son  of  Anne  one  of  the  daughters  and  heirs  of  the  said  John, 
which  Michael  died  within  age  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  John  Duyn 
son  and  lieir  of  Eleanor  tliird  daughter  and  heir  of  the  said  John,  and 
that  John  Duyn  and  the  said  Joan  are  cousins  and  next  heirs  of  the 
said  Thomas,  John  Duyn  being  of  full  age  and  the  said  Juliana  {sic) 
within  age,  the  king  took  the  fealty  of  JohnDuyii,  respited  his  homage, 
and  ordered  the  escheator  to  make  a  partition  of  the  said  lands  into 
two  equal  parts  in  presence  of  John  Duyn  and  the  next  friends  of  the 
said  Joan,  if  upon  warning  they  would  attend,  and  to  cause  John 
Duyn  to  have  seisin  of  his  purparty  thereof,  keeping  the  purparty 
of  the  said  Joan  in  the  king's  hand  until  further  order  ;  and  the  said 
Joan  has  proved  her  age  before  John  de  Bekyngton  escheator  in 
Somerset. 


Nov.  15. 
Westminster. 


To  Philip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  Gloucestershire  and  the  march 
of  Wales  adjoining.  Order  to  take  the  fealty  of  John  Arundell,  who 
with  the  king's  licence  has  taken  to  Avife  Joan  daughter  of  Alice 
daugliter  of  Anne  sister  of  Cicely  Avife  of  Peter  Achard,  according  to 
tlie  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  cause  them  to  have  seisin 
of  the  said  Joan's  purparty  of  the  lands  which  the  said  Peter  at  his 
death  held  by  the  courtesy  of  England  after  the  death  of  the  said 
Cicely ;  as  on  28  April  in  the  37th  year  of  the  reign,  on  the  finding 
of  an  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator  at  the  king's  command,  that 
the  said  Peter  at  his  death  held  as  aforesaid  a  messuage,  one  carucate 
of  land  and  20s.  of  rent  in  Redewyk  within  the  lordship  of  Magor  in 
the  said  march  for  his  life  as  of  the  heritage  of  the  said  Cicely  in  chief 
by  knight  service,  that  John  Duyn  son  of  Eleanor  one  sister  of  the 
said  Cicely,  and  the  said  Joan  daughter  of  Alice  daughter  of  Anne  her 
other  sister  are  her  next  heirs,  John  Duyn  being  then  of  full  age  and 
the  said  Joan  Avithin  age,  the  king  took  the  fealty  of  John  Duyn, 
respited  his  homage,  and  ordered  the  escheator  to  make  a  partition 
of  the  premises  into  tAVO  equal  parts,  in  presence  of  John  Duyn  and 
of  the  next  friends  of  the  said  Joan  if  upon  Avarning  they  would  attend, 
and  to  cause  John  Duyn  to  have  seisin  of  his  purparty,  keeping  in  the 


41  EDWARD  III. 


353 


1307. 


Membrane  8 — cont. 


Nov.  30. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  15. 
Westminster. 


king's  hand  until  further  order  the  purparty  of  the  said  Joan  ;  and 
the  said  Joan  has  now  proved  her  age  before  John  do  Bekyngton 
escheator  in  Somerset. 

To  John  de  Evesliani  escheator  in  Oxfordshire.  Order  to  deUvcr 
to  .John  son  of  John  de  Grey  of  Rothcrfeld  the  manor  of  Wy  vclcoto 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Robert  de  Grey,  together 
\\ith  tlie  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John  de  Grey  deceased  acquired 
the  said  manor,  which  was  held  of  him  in  chief  by  the  service  of  the 
fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee,  to  hold  to  the  said  John  and  the  said 
Robert  his  son  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  Robert's  body,  with 
remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  male  to  the  right  heirs  of  the  said 
John  de  Grey,  and  that  the  said  Robert  died  without  an  heir  male 
of  his  body,  whereby  the  said  manor,  the  lordship  whereof  by  reason 
of  that  acquisition  pertains  to  the  king,  ought  by  the  form  of  the 
acquisition  to  remain  to  John  de  Grey  the  son,  being  heir  of  the  said 
John,  who  is  of  full  age ;  and  the  king  has  lately  taken  the  homage 
and  fealty  of  the  said  John  the  son,  and  has  commanded  livery  to  bo 
given  him  of  the  lands  of  his  heritage. 

To  Thomas  Cheyne  escheator  in  Devon.  Order  to  cause  John  Arundell, 
who  with  the  king's  licence  has  taken  to  wife  Joan  daughter  of  William 
Luscote  and  Alice  his  wife,  and  whose  fealty  the  king  has  commanded 
to  be  taken  by  Philip  de  Lutteley  escheator  in  Gloucestershire  and  the 
march  of  Wales  adjoining,  to  have  seisin  of  the  said  Joan's  purparty 
of  the  lands  of  Thomas  Achard  ;  as  on  20  October  in  the  36th  year 
of  his  reign,  on  the  finding  of  an  inquisition,  taken  by  the  said  Philip 
at  the  king's  command,  that  the  said  Thomas  at  his  death  held  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee  8  acres  of  pasture,  lis.  4:d.  of  rent  and  the  third 
part  of  a  messuage  and  one  carucate  of  land  at  Redwyk  in  the  said 
march  in  chief  by  knight  service,  as  his  purparty  of  the  lands  which 
were  of  John  de  Knoville  tenant  in  chief  by  a  partition  made  between 
the  said  Thomas,  William  de  Luscote  and  Alice  late  his  wife,  sister 
and  heir  of  Michael  son  of  Anne  one  of  the  daughters  and  heirs  of 
the  said  John,  which  Michael  died  within  age  in  the  king's  wardship, 
and  John  Duyn  son  and  heir  of  Eleanor  the  third  daughter  and  heir, 
and  that  the  said  John  Duyn  and  Joan  are  cousins  and  next  heirs 
of  the  said  Thomas,  John  Duyn  being  of  full  age  and  Joan  within  age, 
the  king  took  the  fealty  of  John  Duyn,  respited  his  homage,  and 
commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  his  purparty,  and  ordered  the 
escheator  in  Devon  to  make  a  partition  into  two  equal  parts  of  all 
lands  in  his  bailiwick  which  the  said  Thomas  at  his  death  held  of  that 
heritage  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  in  presence  as  well  of  John  Duyn 
as  of  the  next  friends  of  the  said  Joan  if  upon  warning  they  would 
attend,  and  to  cause  John  Duyn  to  have  seisin  of  his  purparty, 
keeping  in  the  king's  hand  until  further  order  the  purparty  of  the 
said  Joan  ;  and  the  said  Joan  has  proved  her  age  before  John  de 
Bekynton  escheator  in  Somerset. 


Membrane  7. 

Nov.  10.         To  the  justiciary,  the  chancellor  and  the  treasurer  of  Ireland,  and 

Westminster,  to  the  others  of  the  king's  council  there.     Order  before  Easter  next  to 

summon  and  hold  a  parliament  in  Ireland  at  a  place  to  be  by  them 

E  23 


354 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1367. 


Membrane  7 — cont. 


Oct.  26. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  1. 

Westminster. 


appointed,  and  therein  to  set  forth  pubhcly  the  business  concerning 

the  state  of  Ireland,  whereby  that  land  may  be  relieved  and  reformed, 

rebels  may  best  be  restrained  and  opposed,  and  other  evils  therein 

be   avoided   and   removed,    especially   appointing   and     applying    a 

remedy  concerning  those  absentees  who  have  lands  in  Ireland  and 

defend  them  not,  and  others  there  who  are  lukewarm  and  remiss 

touching  the  defence  of  their  lands,   treating  thereupon  diligently 

without  faintise,  and  appointing  and  applying  suitable  remedies,  and 

within  a  month  after  Easter  to  send  the  king  under  the  seal  used  in 

Ireland  the  ordinance  so  made  concerning  the  state  of  Ireland,  how 

it  may  be  best  ruled  and  defended  in  future,  with  their  own  advice, 

also  this  writ,  so  that  after  viewing  these  things  the  king  may  better 

dispose  by  his  counsel  what  must  be  done  ;    as  by  reason  of  default, 

negligence  and  the  evil  ruling  of  Ireland,  for  that  those  set  over  that 

land  on  the  king's  behalf  and  as  well  Irishmen  as  many  others  having 

lands  there  and  residing  in  the  realm  or  elsewhere  out  of  Ireland  have 

not  in  time  of  need  come  forward  as  they  ought  to  defend  that  land 

against  the  frequent  attacks  of  the  king's  Irish  enemies,  the  king's 

lands  and  the  lands  of  those  others  in  Ireland  are  becoming  barren 

and  untilled,  being  wasted  and  occupied  by  the  said  enemies,  so  that 

the  king  and  those  others  reap  little  or  no  fruit  or  advantage  therefrom  ; 

and  it  is  the  king's  desire  to  look  to  the  safety  of  Ireland,  and  to  save 

himself  harmless.  By  K. 

To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Yorkshire  and  Northumber- 
land. Order  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Stokeslay  and 
other  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  de  Eure 
knight,  delivering  to  Robert  his  son  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as 
the  king  has  learned  by  divers  inquisitions,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  the  said  John  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  those  counties  in  chief 
nor  of  any  others  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  long  before  his  death 
demised  the  said  manor  and  all  other  his  lands  there  to  the  said 
Robert,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

To  John  de  Scotherskk  {sic)  escheator  in  Cumberland.  Order 
to  deliver  in  dower  to  Felicia  who  was  wife  of  Robert  Tillioll  knight, 
whose  oath  the  king  has  taken  that  she  will  not  marry  without  his 
licence,  a  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Kirklevyngton  the  services  of 
John  de  Thirlwall  excepted,  extended  at  11.  I8s.  Id.  a  year,  certain 
tenements  in  Scolitelgarth  at  145.  4:d.,  a  water  mill  in  Scalby  at  4Z., 
the  park  of  Scalby  at  26s.  Sd.,  a  close  there  newly  approwed  extended 
at  5s.  a  year,  and  40s.  of  rent  issuing  from  certain  tenements  in 
Stapilton,  which  the  king  has  assigned  to  her  of  the  lands  of  her  said 
husband,  in  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage 
of  his  heir. 


Oct.  23.  To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Wyltes.     Order  to  take  the  fealty 

Westminster,  of  Maud  late  the  wife  of  William  de  Holbeche  and  of  Thomas  de 
Holbeche  according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  not  to 
meddle  further  with  a  messuage,  300  acres  of  land,  2  acres  of  meadow, 
600  acres  of  pasture  and  56s.  of  rent  in  Fitelton  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  said  William's  death,  delivering  to  the  said  Maud  and 
Thomas  any  issues  thereof  taken ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  William  at  his  death 


41  EDVVAIll>  III.  355 


13()7j  Membrane  7 — cont. 

hold  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  dcmosno  as  of  foe,  but 
held  (he  premises,  whicih  are  held  in  chief,  jointly  with  the  said  Maud 
and  Thomas,  of  the  gift  of  John  do  Dommesburv"  made  with  the  king's 
hoence. 

Oct.   13.  To  John  do  Scotherskelf  cschoator   in   Yorkshire.     Order  not   to 

Westminster,  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Wynterthorp  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  John  de  Breouse  knight,  delivering  to  Beatrice 
who  was  wife  of  'J'homas  de  Jireouse  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
said  John  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  manor  of  others  than  the  king 
of  the  gift  of  the  said  Thomas  and  Beatrice  to  him  and  the  heirs  of 
his  body,  with  reversion  to  the  said  Thomas  (now  deceased)  and 
Beatrice,  and  that  John  died  without  an  heir  of  his  body. 

Oct.   18.  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheak)r  in  Yorkshire,  Northumberland 

Westminster,  and  Cumberland.  Order  to  deliver  to  Alice  who  was  wife  of  Ralph 
de  Neville  the  portion  of  her  dower  in  his  bailiwick;  as  the  king  with 
the  assent  of  John  de  Neville  son  and  heir  of  the  said  Ralph  has 
assigned  to  her  a  third  part  of  the  knights'  fees  of  her  said  husband, 
and  the  advowsons  of  Fisshelake  co.  York  and  Pykenhamwade 
CO.  NorfFolk,  which  are  in  his  hand  by  the  said  Ralph's  death. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire. 

Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Norffolk,  Suffolk  and  Essex. 

Richard  de  Widevylle  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire. 

Oct.   18.  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Yorkshire,  Northumberland 

Westminster,  and  Cumberland.  Order  to  deliver  to  Alice  who  was  wife  of  Ralph  de 
Neville  tenant  in  chief  all  issues  taken  by  the  escheator  of  the  lands 
of  her  said  husband  lately  assigned  to  her  in  dower  ;  as  the  king 
remembers  that  she  was  by  him  married  to  the  said  Ralph,  and 
would  deal  generously  with  her.  By  K. 

Membrane  6. 

Oct.  23.  To   the  guardians  of  the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric   of  Bath 

Westminster,  and  Wells,  which  is  void  and  in  the  king's  hand.  Order  to  pay  to 
Eustace  Dabrichecourt  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  the  arrears  of  a  yearly 
farm  which  the  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells  is  bound  to  render  to  the 
earl  of  Kent  and  his  heirs  from  the  time  the  said  guardians  have 
had  the  keeping  of  the  said  temporalities,  and  to  pay  the  same 
henceforth  so  long  as  they  shall  have  the  keeping  thereof  ;  as  on 
15  February  in  the  27th  year  of  his  reign,  among  other  lands  and 
tenements  of  John  earl  of  Kent  tenant  in  chief  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  his  death,  the  king  assigned  the  farm  aforesaid  in 
dower  to  the  said  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  the  said  earl,  com- 
manding the  then  bishop  to  be  thenceforward  answerable  to  her  , 
for  the  same. 

Nov.   18.         To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order,   if  the 

Westminster,  manor'  of  Tarum  and  the  town  of  Jarum  are  but  one  and  not  divers 

manors  nor  divers  towns,  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle 

further  therewith,  delivering  to  Peter  de  Malo  Lacu  '  le  sisme  '  and 


356 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1367. 


Membrane  6 — cont. 


Elizabeth  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  on  10  February  in 
the  20th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  licence 
to  Bartholomew  Fanacourt  and  Lucy  his  Avife  to  give  during  the 
said  Lucy's  life  to  John  Darcy  '  le  fitz  '  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  and 
to  the  heirs  of  the  said  John  the  manor  of  Jarum  which  is  held  in  chief, 
and  was  held  for  the  life  of  the  said  Lucy  by  the  said  Bartholomew 
and  Lucy,  and  licence  to  the  said  John  and  Elizabeth  to  take  and 
hold  the  same  as  aforesaid  ;  and  now  on  behalf  of  the  said  Peter, 
who  has  taken  the  said  Elizabeth  to  wife,  the  king  has  learned  that 
the  escheator  has  contrary  to  his  said  licence  taken  the  said  manor 
into  the  king's  hand  for  that  he  found  by  inquisition,  before  him 
taken  of  his  office,  that  tlic  said  Peter  in  right  of  his  said  wife  holds 
the  town  of  Jarum  in  Clyveland,  which  was  without  the  king's  licence 
purchased  by  John  Darcy  knight  deceased  to  him  and  the  said 
Elizabeth  of  the  said  Bartholomew,  who  held  that  town  in  chief  aa 
parcel  of  his  barony. 

Aug.  30.  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  to  deliver 
Westminster,  to  John  de  Strivelyn  the  manor  of  Faxflete,  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  Ralph  de  Neville,  to  hold  to  him  and  the  heirs 
male  of  his  body  to  the  value  of  55Z.  a  year,  together  with  the  issues 
thereof  taken  from  the  time  of  the  taking  of  the  said  Ralph,  in  part 
of  200  marks  of  land  and  rent  to  be  granted  by  the  king  to  the  said 
John  for  his  good  service  ;  as  lately  by  letters  patent  the  king  granted 
him  and  his  heirs  200  marks  to  be  taken  every  year  of  the  issues  of 
the  customs  in  the  ports  of  Hertilpole  and  Newcastle  upon  Tyne 
until  provision  should  b}'^  the  king  or  his  heirs  be  made  him  of  so  much 
of  lands  and  rent,  with  the  knights'  fees,  advowsons  etc.  thereto 
pertaining  ;  and  after  on  20  December  in  the  17th  year  of  his  reign 
in  part  of  the  said  yearly  sum  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  to 
him  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  with  reversion  for  lack  of 
.such  an  heir  male  to  the  king  and  his  heirs,  the  remainder  of  the 
said  manor  and  the  advowson  of  the  chapel  thereof  to  the  value 
aforesaid  after  the  death  of  the  said  Ralph,  who  held  the  same  for  life 
of  the  king's  grant  with  reversion  to  the  king  and  his  heirs ;  and  it 
is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Ralph 
is  dead,  that  he  held  the  said  manor  as  aforesaid  of  the  king's  grant 
with  remainder  to  the  said  John  and  his  heirs,  and  that  the  same  is 
held  of  others  than  the  king. 


Nov,  4.  To  Richard  de  Wydeville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.     Order  to 

Westminster,  assign  and  deliver  to  Isabel  who  was  wife  of  John  de  WodhuU  knight 
tenant  in  chief,  whose  oath  the  king  has  taken  that  she  will  not  marry 
without  his  licence,  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  in  the  king's 
hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  in  presence 
of  Richard  de  Stury  to  whom  the  king  has  committed  the  wardship 
of  two  thirds  of  the  said  lands  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  heir, 
or  of  his  attorney  if  upon  warning  he  will  attend,  sending  the 
assignment  under  his  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 
The  like  to  John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Bedfordshire. 

Nov.  4.  To    John    de    Olneye    escheator    in    Bedfordshire.     Order    not    to 

Westminster,  meddle  further  with  a  place  called  Cattessho  and  other  lands,  rents 

and  services  in  Little  Wodhull,  a  messuage  and  dovecot,  2  acres  of 


41  EDWARD  in. 


357 


1307.  Mcwhrane  6 — cont. 

land,  a  parcel  of  meadow  called  Clifton  Holme,  a  meadow  called 
Lices  Mede,  a  meadow  called  'Holme  over  the  Water,'  U  rood  of 
meadow  in  Stanford  Mede,  a  fishery  in  the  river  Ouse  in  C!helvyn/^ton 
from  Harewold  bridge  to  Wodhull  pond  and  from  Wodhull  mill  to 
Felmersliam  mill,  four  quarters  of  Wodhull  wood  namely  '  Esthey 
(Quarter,  ChaldewcU  quarter',  Coldewell  quarter  and  le  Mare  quarter,' 
all  held  of  others  than  the  king,  and  other  lands,  rents  and  services  in 
the  said  county  not  held  of  the  king,  all  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  death  of  John  de  Wodhull  knight,  delivering  to  Lawrence 
Pabenham  knight,  John  Curteys,  Thomas  de  Reyncs  and  William  de 
\\'odhull  any  issues  thereof  taken;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
iuijuisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  long  before  his  death  the 
said  John  de  Wodhull  enfeoffed  the  said  Lawrence,  John  Curteys, 
Thomas  and   William  of  the  premises,  to  them  and  their  heirs. 

Nov.  4,  To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Wiltes.     Order  not  to  meddle 

Westminster,  further  with  the  manors  of  Great  Derneford,  Little  Derneford  and 
Tudderle  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  de  Wodhull 
knight,  delivering  to  Isabel  his  Avifc  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as 
the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
said  John  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  his  demesne  as 
of  fee,  but  held  the  said  manors  as  jointly  enfeoffed  with  the  said 
Isabel  of  the  gift  of  John  de  Newenham  clerk,  John  Curteys  and 
William  de  Wodhull,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the 
king. 

Nov.   1,  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Northumberland.     Order  to 

Windsor.  cause  John,  son  and  heir  of  John  Musgrave  and  of  Margaret  his  wife, 
to  have  seisin  of  the  manor  of  Heton,  a  messuage  and  36  acres  of 
land  in  Haukewell  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Robert 
de  R3^hull  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  John  the  son  ;  as 
the  said  Robert  held  for  his  life  the  said  manor  which  is  held  in 
chief,  and  the  said  messuage  and  land  which  are  not  held  of  the 
king,  of  the  said  John  the  father  and  Margaret  (both  deceased)  with 
reversion  to  John  the  son  ;  and  John  the  son  has  proved  his  age  before 
the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealtv. 

By  p.s."  [27474.1 

Oct.  28.  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  pending 

Westminster,  debate  of  the  business  to  stay  a  distraint  by  him  made  upon  a  messuage 
and  one  carucate  and  a  half  of  land  in  Multhorp  for  levying  to  the 
king's  use  a  rent  of  4/.  which  the  prior  of  Holy  Trinity  Kyrkham  used 
to  render  to  John  Corbet  for  the  premises  ;  as  a  plea  is  pending  before 
the  king  between  the  king  and  the  said  prior  whether  he  or  his  pre- 
decessors acquired  the  said  rent  after  the  statute  de  Religionis,  as 
found  by  certificate  of  the  escheator  sent  into  chancery  at  the  king's 
command,  or  whether  they  held  the  said  messuage  and  land  quit 
and  discharged  of  the  said  rent  long  before  the  date  of  that  statute 
and  ever  heretofore,  without  that  that  the  prior  or  any  of  his  pre- 
decessors acquu-ed  the  premises,  or  the  said  rent,  or  n,ny  parcel  of  them 
after  that  date  ;  and  it  is  not  yet  debated  whether  the  said  rent, 
taken  by  the  escheator  into  the  king's  hand,  ought  to  pertain  to  the 
king  or  to  the  prior. 


,/- 


358  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1367.  Membrane  5. 

Dec.  1.  To    the    sheriff    of    Essex.     Order    to    cause    John    Gylemjrn    of 

Westminster.  Upmenste  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage  and  appurtenances  in  Alvythele 
held  bj^  John  Wardayn  of  Alvythele  hanged  for  felony  it  is  said  ;  as 
the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  sheriff,  that  the 
premises  have  been  in  his  hand  a  year  and  a  day  and  are  yet  in  his 
hand,  that  John  Wardayn  held  them  of  the  said  John  Gylemyn  by 
fealty  and  the  service  of  35.  4cZ.,  that  the  king  had  the  year  and  a  day 
and  the  waste,  and  that  answer  has  been  made  to  him  for  the  same. 

Dec.  1.  To  James  Andreu   mayor   of  the  city   of  London  and  escheator 

Westminster,  therein.  Order  to  deliver  to  Gervase  de  Castro  bishop  elect  of 
Bangor  all  temporalities  of  that  bishopric  in  his  bailiwick  which  by 
reason  of  the  vacancy  after  the  death  of  bishop  Thomas  are  in  the 
king's  hand  ;  as  the  pope  has  lately  made  provision  of  the  said 
Gervase  a  professor  of  the  order  of  friars  preachers  and  master  in 
theology  to  be  bishop,  as  appears  by  bulls  to  the  king  addressed  ; 
and  willing  to  shew  favour  to  the  said  bishop  elect  for  that  he  has 
renounced  all  words  in  the  said  bulls  contained  which  are  to  the 
prejudice  of  the  king  and  crown,  submitting  himself  humbly  to  the 
king's  grace,  the  king  has  taken  his  fealty,  and  has  restored  to  him 
the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric.  The  king's  will  is  that  the  said 
mayor  be  thereof  discharged  toward  the  king. 

Nov.  24.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  stay 
Westminster,  their  demand  made  by  exchequer  summons  upon  WiUiam  Alfrede 
for  the  issues  and  profits  arising  from  the  king's  manor  of  Yeshamstede 
and  of  the  lands,  meadows,  pastures  and  moors  thereto  belonging, 
and  for  an  account  thereof  for  all  the  time  that  the  said  William  had 
the  keeping  of  the  same,  discharging  him  thereof  ;  as  for  his  pains 
and  the  costs  he  incurred  in  regard  to  the  keeping  of  the  said  manor 
the  king  has  given  him  all  the  said  issues  and  profits,  discharging 
him  of  an  account.  By  K. 

Nov.  26.  To  Jolm  de  Tye  escheator  in  Kent.  Order  to  cause  restitution  to 
Westmfinster.  be  made  to  Robert  de  Neville  of  Horneby  as  well  of  the  issues  and 
profits  of  his  lands  taken  by  the  escheator  to  the  king's  use  by  reason 
of  an  outlawry  published  against  him  upon  a  plea  of  debt  at  the  suit 
of  William  de  Mcryngton  of  York  as  of  his  other  goods  and  chattels 
seized  by  the  escheator  into  the  king's  hand  by  colour  of  the  said 
outlawTy  ;  as  of  his  favour  the  king  by  letters  patent  has  granted 
the  said  Robert  restitution  of  all  goods  and  chattels  forfeit  by  reason 
thereof  and  seized  by  his  ministers  whatsoever  ;  and  though  many 
times  by  divers  v^rits  the  king  has  ordered  the  escheator  to  make 
restitution  accordingly,  he  has  not  cared  to  restore  the  issues  and 
profits  of  the  said  lands  so  taken  and  after  pardon  restored,  but  is; 
keeping  them  in  his  ov.ix  hands,  pretending  that  they  are  not  goods 
and  chattels. 

Nov.  24.  To  William  atte  More  escheator  in  Leycestershire.  Order  to 
Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of 
Salteby  and  Bescoldeby,  restoring  to  the  abbot  of  Croxton  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  it  is  found  by  certificate  of  the  escheator,  sent 
into  chancery  at  the  king's  command,  that  the  said  manors  were 
seized  into  the  king's  hand  by  John  Bernard  late  escheator  for  that 
he   found,    by   mquisition   before   him   taken,    that   the   said   abbot 


41    EDWARD    III. 


359 


1307. 


Membrane  5 — cont. 


without  the  khig's  licenoo  .acquired  thorn  to  him  and  his  successors 
of  Andrew  Louterel  kniglit,  who  held  them  in  chief  by  knight 
service  ;  but  it  is  found  by  the  king's  letters  patent,  produced  in 
chancery,  that  the  king  so  far  as  in  him  Hes  has  granted  licence 
to  the  said  Andrew  to  give  and  assign  the  said  manors  to  the  abbot 
and  convent  of  Croxton  and  to  their  successors  towards  finding  two 
secular  chaplains  to  celebrate  divine  service  every  day  in  the  abbey 
church  according  to  an  ordinance  to  be  made,  and  licence  to  the  said 
abbot  and  convent  to  take  and  hold  the  same. 

To  the  same.  Order,  if  a  messuage  and  one  virgate  of  land  in 
Sharneford  in  his  certificate  contained  are  the  same  that  were 
acquired  by  the  abbot  of  Croxton  as  hereinafter  mentioned,  to  remove 
the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  therewith,  restoring  to  the 
abbot  and  convent  of  Croxton  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  it  is 
found  by  the  said  certificate,  sent  into  chancery  at  the  king's  com- 
mand, that  John  Bernard  late  escheator  found,  by  inquisition  before 
him  taken,  that  William  the  now  abbot's  predecessor  purchased  of 
William  Hauberk  a  messuage  and  one  virgate  of  land  in  Sharneford 
to  him  and  his  successors  in  the  late  king's  time  without  licence  of 
the  late  king  and  of  Theobald  de  Verdon  of  whom  William  Hauberk 
held  the  same,  and  that  the  said  John  delivered  the  premises  by 
indenture  to  the  now  escheator  ;  but  the  king  by  letters  patent  par- 
doned the  said  abbot  and  convent,  to  whom  the  late  king  of  his  favour 
granted  licence  to  acquire  to  them  and  their  successors  lands  and 
rents  to  the  value  of  10/.  a  year,  those  held  in  chief  excepted,  their 
trespass  in  so  acquiring  and  entering  a  messuage  and  one  virgate  of 
land  in  Sharneford  not  held  of  him  before  the  inquisitions  thereof 
were  in  due  manner  returned  in  the  chancery  of  the  late  king  or  of  the 
now  king,  and  granted  that  they  should  hold  the  same  and  certain 
other  lands  in  full  of  the  lOl.  aforesaid  the  statute  of  mortmain 
notwithstanding,  by  virtue  whereof  the  king  considers  that  the 
premises  were  without  reason  unduly  taken  into  his  hand. 

To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Cumberland.  Order  to  cause 
John  son  and  heir  of  Richard  de  Hotonrof  tenant  in  chief  to  have 
seisin  of  the  lands  of  his  said  father  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his 
death  ;  as  the  said  John  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator, 
and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.         By  p.s.  [27503.] 

Nov.  15.  To  Thomas  de  Cheyne  escheator  in  Devon.  Order  to  remove  the 
Westminster,  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  purparty  of  Joan 
daughter  of  William  de  Luscote  of  the  manor  of  Lodes\\ill,  a  messuage, 
one  carucate  of  land  and  fiOs.  of  rent  in  Yiddeford,  and  a  messuage 
and  one  carucate  of  land  in  Bathesthorne  kept  in  the  king's  hand 
and  left  in  the  keeping  of  the  said  WilUam  ;  as  lately  on  the  finding 
of  divers  inquisitions,  taken  by  the  king's  command,  that  Margaret 
de  Dynham  otherwise  called  Margaret  Douuedale  at  her  death  held 
the  premises  in  dower  of  the  heritage  of  John  Duyn  then  of  full  age, 
Thomas  Achard  and  the  said  Joan  both  then  within  age  and  in  the 
king's  w  ardship,  cousins  and  heirs  of  Gilbert  de  Knoville  tenant  in  chief, 
and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king,  on  20  June  in  the 
31st  year  of  his  reign  the  king  ordered  Richard  Hody  then  escheator 

*  The  warrant  is  dated  Nov.  30, 


Nov.   20.* 
Windsor. 


360 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1367. 


Membrane  5 — cont. 


Oct.   12. 

Westminster. 

Oct.   12. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  22. 
Westminster. 


to  make  a  partition  thereof  into  three  equal  parts,  in  presence  of  the 
said  John  r)ii3'n  and  WilUam  to  whom  the  king  committed  the  ward- 
ship of  two  thirds  of  the  lands  held  in  dower  by  the  said  Margaret 
until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  Thomas  and  Joan,  and  to  deliver  to 
the  said  William  their  purparties,  not  meddling  further  with  the 
purparty  of  the  said  John  Duj^n  ;  and  after  on  1st  August  in  the  32nd 
year,  on  proof  of  the  age  of  the  said  Thomas,  the  king  took  his  homage 
and  commanded  livery  of  his  purparty  to  be  given  him,  leaving 
the  said  Joan's  purparty  in  the  hand  of  the  said  William  ;  and  the 
said  Joan  has  proved  her  age  before  John  de  Bekyngton  escheator 
in  Somerset. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
instead  of  John  de  Nunton,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Roteland  to  cause  a  verderer  in  the  king's 
forest  of  Roteland  to  be  elected  instead  of  William  de  Burton  knight, 
who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton  to  cause  two  coroners  {sic)  to 
be  elected  instead  of  Thomas  Westcote  and  Nicholas  Husee  verderers 
in  the  king's  forest  of  Wolmere  and  Aesholte,  who  are  dead. 


Membrane  4. 

Nov.  6.  To  Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Order  to  remove 
Westmmster.  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage  and 
appurtenances  in  Lincoln  which  were  of  William  de  Dodyngton, 
delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  lately  ordered 
the  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  the  premises 
were  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  he  returned  that  it  was 
found  by  inquisition,  taken  before  the  escheator,  that  the  said 
William  at  his  death  held  a  messuage  with  appurtenances  in  the  parish 
of  St.  Benedict  Lincoln  of  the  king  as  parcel  of  the  said  city  by  the 
service  of  one  '  landtolpeny  '  a  year  payable  to  the  bailiffs  of  Lincoln 
at  St.  Peter's  Chains  in  aid  of  their  farm  according  to  the  custom  of 
the  city,  and  by  the  service  of  paying  8s.  a  year  to  the  mother  church 
of  Lincoln,  and  2s.  to  William  de  Blyton  for  all  service,  that  after 
his  death  the  same  descended  by  inheritance  to  Alexander,  son  of 
William  de  Dodyngton  the  younger  brother  of  the  said  deceased, 
as  his  next  heir,  that  he  after  aliened  the  premises  in  fee  to  John  de 
Wykford  chaplain,  who  occupied  the  messuage  as  his  freehold  by 
purchase,  and  that  for  that  cause  he  took  the  same  into  the  king's 
hand  ;    and  the  king  considers  that  return  insufficient. 

Nov.  29.  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  m  Yorkshire.  Order  not  to 
Westminster,  meddle  further  with  a  messuage,  a  mill,  60  acres  of  land  and  4  acres 
of  meadow  in  Gerford,  a  messuage,  one  carucate  of  land  and  5  marks 
of  rent  in  Mikelfeld,  a  mill,  a  toft  and  12  acres  of  land  in  Shipen, 
a  messuage  and  one  carucate  of  land  in  Byngelay,  a  piece  of  land 
called  Prestrede  in  Glusburn,  and  the  manor  of  Rugford,  all  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  de  Dynele,  delivering  to 
Isabel  late  his  wife  any' issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John  at  his  death 


41  EDWARD  III. 


301 


1367. 


Membrane  4 — cont. 

liokl  no  lands  in  tliat  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but 
held  the  premises  jointly  with  the  said  Isabel,  and  that  they  are  held 
of  others  than  the  king. 

Oct.   13.  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator   in   Yorkshire.     Order  not   to 

Westminstoi-.  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Kirkeby  upon  (^uerf  and  certain 
lands  in  Crymmeston  and  Milford  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the 
death  of  Ralph  de  Neville,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
at  his  death  the  said  Ralph  held  the  premises  for  his  life  of  the  grant 
of  Robert  de  Neville  of  Horneby  the  elder,  with  remainder  to  Robert 
de  Neville  of  Horneby  (yet  living)  son  of  the  said  Robert  the  elder 
and  to  his  heirs,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

Oct.   18.  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Yorkshire,  Northumberland 

Westminster,  and  Cumbeiland.  Order  to  deliver  in  dower  to  Alice  who  was  wife 
of  Ralph  de  Neville  knight  tenant  in  chief,  of  whom  the  king  has 
taken  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  his  licence,  the  manors 
of  Crakhall,  Raskelf,  Carleton,  Welle  and  Neubiggyng,  the  sheepcote 
called  Mildperokote  and  wood  of  Cauncewyth,  a  moiety  of  her  said 
husband's  lands  in  Coverdale,  a  third  part  of  the  pasture  of 
Wondslaghdale  upon  the  soil  of  the  earl  of  Rychemund,  and  40?.  6s.  Sd. 
of  rent  to  be  taken  of  the  manor  of  Sutton  in  Galtrys  by  the  hands 
of  the  '  husband '  thereof  in  Yorkshire,  20Z.  of  rent  issuing  from  the 
manor  of  Corbrigge  co.  Northumberland,  and  5U.  Is.  Q\d.  of  rent 
to  be  taken  of  the  cornage  in  Cumberland,  which  with  the  assent 
of  John  de  Neville,  son  and  heir  of  the  said  Ralph,  the  king  has 
assigned  her  of  the  lands  of  her  said  husband  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  his  death. 

To  John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Huntingdonshire.  Order  not  to 
meddle  further  with  the  lands  which  Robert  de  Vernoun  of  Abbots 
Ripton  held  by  knight  service  of  Rameseye  abbey,  lately  void  and 
in  the  king's  hand,  which  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  the  said  Robert's 
death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir  ;  as  Robert  son  and 
heir  of  the  said  Robert  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and 
on  21  August  in  the  23rd  year  of  his  reign  the  king  took  the  fealty 
of  brother  Richard  de  Shenyngton  now  abbot  of  Rameseye,  and 
restored  to  him  the  temporalities  of  the  said  abbey. 

To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  the  county  of  Suthamjjton. 
Order  to  cause  Richard  son  of  John  de  Compton,  cousin  and  heir  of 
John  de  Compton  knight  tenant  in  chief,  to  have  seisin  of  the  lands  of 
his  said  grandfather  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  ;  as  the 
said  Richard  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king 
has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [27518.] 

To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London.  Order  to 
suffer  John  Vautort  merchant  of  London,  who  with  the  king's  licence 
is  about  to  sail  to  Spain  with  one  ship  there  to  buy  divers  property 
and  merchandise,  freely  to  pass  in  that  port  whither  he  will  with 
24  bows  and  24  sheaves  of  arrows  for  defending  and  furnishing  his 
ship  and  30/.  for  his  expenses,  the  king's  command  whatsoever  to  the 
contrary  not^\  ithstanding,  provided  he  take  not  with  him  any  other 


Dec.  10. 

Westminster. 


Dec.  18, 

Eltham. 


1368. 
Jan.  5. 

Westminster. 


362 


CALENr)AR  OF  OLOSK  ROLLS. 


1368. 


1867. 

Oct.  23. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  4 — cont. 

sum  of  money,  nor  letters  or  aught  else  in  writing  or  otherwise  which 
may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  realm  or  of  any  of  his  subjects, 
and  that  none  of  the  king's  hostages  of  France  or  any  other  not 
licensed  by  the  king  shall  pass  out  of  the  realm  by  virtue  of  this 
command.  The  king's  will  is  that  the  said  John  shall  within  one 
month  of  this  date  pass  once  over  sea  and  no  more,  that  if  he  shall 
not  so  do  this  licence  shall  be  of  none  avail,  and  that  after  the  said 
month  he  shall  not  depart  to  foreign  parts  without  another  special 
command. 

Mainprise  of  William  de  Neuport  and  John  Page  of  London  for  the 
said  John  Vautort,  and  for  bringing  again  within  a  year  to  the  city 
of  London  the  said  bows  and  arrows,  if  not  spent  for  defence  of  the 
ship. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Berkshire  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
instead  of  William  W^arde,  who  does  not  dwell  in  the  said  county, 
as  the  king  has  learned. 


Oct.   18.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Oger  Pen  wore,  who  is  aged  and  infirm. 

Oct.  20.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Warrewyk  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Robert  de  Wavere,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Dec.  4.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Devon  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Stephen  Potel,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Aug.  24.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  when  required  by 
Westminster.  William  de  Strete  the  king's  butler,  to  whom  pertains  the  office  of 
coroner  in  the  city  of  London,  to  admit  William  de  Hockele  the 
substitute  by  him  appointed  to  the  exercise  of  that  office  in  his  stead, 
taking  of  the  said  substitute  an  oath  for  his  good  behaviour  therein  ; 
as  the  said  butler  has  not  leisure  to  exercise  the  same  in  person  for 
divers  business  of  the  king  whereon  he  is  engaged  in  divers  parts  of 
the  realm.  By  witness  of  the  said  butler. 

Dec.  4.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Devon  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Richard  Grypeston,  who  is  insufficiently  quaUfied. 

Membrane  3. 

Dec.  6.  To   the   collectors   of   the  petty   custom   in   the   port   of  London. 

Westminster.  Order  to  suffer  Adam  de  Bury  to  lade  in  that  port  a  pipe  charged  with 
flesh  and  two  barrels  with  candle  of  Paris  and  to  pass  without  let 
to  Flanders  after  payment  of  the  customs,  if  any  be  thereupon  due, 
the  proclamation  or  the  king's  commands  to  the  contrary  notwith- 
standing ;  as  the  king  of  his  favour  has  given  the  said  Adam  licence 
so  to  do.  ^y  ^• 


Nov.  4.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  York  to  cause  a  coroner  in  the  Estrithinge 

Westminster,  to    be    elected    instead    of    Simon    de    Heselarton    knight,    who    is 
insufficiently  quahfied. 


41    EDWARD    III. 


363 


13G7. 

Dec.  20. 

Wostminstor. 


1368. 
Jan.  9. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  14. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  3 — cont. 

To  tlie  slieriifs  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Robert  attc 
Melle  and  Maud  liis  wife,  one  of  the  daughters  and  heirs  of  llichard 
de  Karlel  '  taillour  '  and  Agnes  his  wife,  and  of  John  Waleys  and 
Joan  his  wife  their  other  daughter  and  lieir,  to  deliver  to  theui  a  mes- 
suage and  appurtenanees  in  Algatestrete  in  the  parish  of  AUhallows 
in  Stanyngchurehe  in  the  city  of  London  together  with  the  issues 
thereof  taken  since  the  same  was  last  taken  into  the  king's  hand  ; 
as  lately  the  said  Richard  was  indicted  and  convicted  {as  above,  p.  338)  ; 
and  on  22  June  last,  for  that  Thomas  Fanner  tenant  of  the 
premises,  being  warned  as  the  sheriffs  returned  and  appearing  at 
the  day  appointed  him,  said  nought  wherefore  the  same  ought  not 
to  be  seized  aeain  into  the  king's  hand  and  delivered  to  the  said 
Robert  and  Maud,  John  Waleys  and  Joan,  as  tlie  right  and  heritage 
in  tail  of  the  said  Maud  and  Joan,  the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs  to 
cause  the  premises  to  be  so  seized  and  safe  kept  until  further  order  ;  and 
now  the  said  petitioners  have  prayed  the  king  for  restitution  thereof. 

To  the  collectors  of  the  petty  custom  and  the  king's  searcher  in 
the  port  of  London.  Order  to  cause  a  ship  called  '  la  Laurence  '  of 
Wale  by  Calais  by  them  arrested  to  be  dearrcsted,  suffering  John  Loy- 
tyn  the  master  and  the  seamen  without  let  to  go  with  the  said  ship 
whither  they  will ;  as  the  said  master,  who  therein  brought  certain 
merchandise  to  London  from  the  port  of  Calais,  is  without  guilt 
concerning  the  removal  from  his  said  ship  by  certain  merchants  or 
others  without  payment  of  custom  of  a  wallet  containing  customable 
merchandise,  as  the  king  is  fully  informed.  By  C. 

To  the  collectors  of  the  petty  custom  and  the  king's  controller 
and  searcher  in  the  port  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of 
Herman  de  Mulyk  of  Almayn  attorney  of  Bernard  Usterfeld  merchant, 
after  payment  of  the  customs  thereupon  due,  to  deliver  to  the  said 
Herman  a  mail  filled  with  goods  called  '  eirmyns  '  to  make  his  fidvantage 
thereof  ;  as  the  petitioner  has  shewn  that  he  delivered  the  said  mail 
in  the  port  of  Caleys  to  John  de  Hatfeld  merchant  of  Almayn  to  be 
taken  over  to  the  city  of  London  with  goods  of  the  said  John  in  a 
ship  called  '  la  Laurence '  of  Wale  by  Calais,  and  that  the  same  was 
put  ashore  in  the  port  of  London  among  other  the  merchandise  of 
the  said  John  by  a  servant  of  his,  in  whose  keeping  the  same  was,  in 
the  absence  of  the  said  Herman  and  without  his  knowledge  while  he 
was  at  Canterbury  upon  his  pilgrimage,  wherefore  it  was  by  the  searcher 
arrested  as  forfeit  to  the  king,  and  is  kept  under  arrest  for  that  it 
was  found  not  cocketed  nor  customed,  praying  restitution  thereof 
seeing  that  no  fault  is  found  in  him. 


Jan.  24. 

Westminster. 


1367. 
Dec.  1. 

Westminster. 


To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  stay 
theu'  demand  made  by  exchequer  summons  upon  Robert  de  Assheton 
late  captain  of  Guynes  castle  for  four  horses,  one  boat  and  one  cart 
bound  with  iron  by  him  received  (it  is  said)  of  Richard  de  Eccleshale 
late  treasurer  of  Calais,  of  the  king's  favour  discharging  him  thereof. 

By  K. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Essex.  Order  to  cause  John  Gylemyn  of  Upmenstre 
to  have  seisin  of  messuage  and  appurtenances  in  Alvythele  etc. 
[as  above,  p.  358). 


364 


CALENDAR   OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1367. 


Membrane  3 — cont. 


Dec.  18.  To  the  slieriflf  of  Norhampton.  Order  to  repair  in  person  to  a  pasture 
Westminster,  in  Bukton,  and  by  the  oath  of  true  men  of  his  baihwick  to  make 
inquisition  touching  a  second  overcharge  thereof,  and  if  he  shall  so 
find  that  Henry  Jonson,  William  Magot  and  John  Randolf  have 
unlawfully  overcharged  the  same  after  his  first  measurement ,  to 
remove  the  overcharge,  making  answer  at  the  exchequer  for  the  cattle 
put  upon  the  said  pasture  after  the  first  measurement  over  and  above 
the  due  number,  or  for  the  price  of  them  ;  as  Richard  de  Bollesore 
master  of  Trinity  hospital  without  Norhampton  has  shewn  the  king 
that,  whereas  he  lately  brought  to  the  sheriff  the  kmg's  writ  for 
measurement  of  the  common  of  his  said  pasture,  unlawfully  over- 
charged by  the  said  Henry,  William  and  John,  and  whereas  the  sheriff 
accordingly  measured  the  same  as  is  usual  in  the  realm,  the  said 
Henry,  William  and  John  have  a  second  time  unlawfully  overcharged 
the  said  pasture  after  that  measurement. 

Dec.  3.  To    Thomas   Cheyne    escheator    in    Devon.     Order    to    deliver    to 

Westminster.  Henry,  son  of  Henry  de  la  Pomeray  the  elder  knight,  38  knights'  fees 
in  Byry  and  Hurburton,  the  manors  of  Byry  and  Stokeleghe  Pomeray, 
and  the  moieties  of  the  manors  of  Hurburton  and  Brixham  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  the  said  Henry  the  elder,  together 
with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Henry  the  elder  at  his  death 
held  the  premises  for  his  life  in  chief  by  knight  service  of  the  feoffment 
of  Nicholas  Wethergrave  and  John  Camboun,  made  by  fine  levied 
in  the  king's  court  with  his  licence  to  him  and  Joan  his  wife  (likewise 
deceased)  with  remainder  to  the  said  Henry  the  son  and  to  the  heirs 
male  of  his  body  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  the  homage  and  fealty  of 
the  said  Hemy  the  son.  By  p.s.  [27504.] 

1368.  Membrane  2. 

Jan.  16.  To  the  collectors  of  the  petty  custom  in  the  port  of  London,  the 
Westminster,  searcher,  and  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  said  port  and  the  river 
Thames.  Order  to  suffer  Cavalkus  Pase  without  let,  after  first  paying 
the  customs  thereupon  due,  to  lade  in  the  said  port  three  pipes  and 
three  barrels  with  bacons  and  take  them  to  foreign  parts,  the  king's 
command  whatsoever  to  them  addressed  to  the  contrary  notwith- 
standing ;  as  the  king  of  his  favour  has  given  the  said  Cavalkus 
licence  so  to  do,  to  make  his  advantage  thereof.  By  C 

Jan.  19.  Germinus   Smythous,    merchant   of   Ahnayn   dwelling   in   London, 

Westminster,  has  the  like  letters  concerning  one  barrel  filled  with  salt  flesh,  to  be 

taken  to  Flanders  for  sustenance  of  his  fellows  there.  By  C. 


1367. 
Jan.  27. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  2Qd* 

To  William  Walssh  the  king's  ganger  in  the  city  of  London,  or  to 
his  representative.  Commission  and  order  to  make  search  m  cellars 
and  all  other  places  where  needful  in  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London 
to  see  what  wines  are  lodged  there  and  the  description  thereof,  to  take 
information  by  inquisition  and  otherwise  as  he  shall  think  fit  con- 
cerning ^\'ines  sold  therefrom,  and  if  it  shall  so  be  found  that  any  tuns 
or  pipes  were  sold  not  gauged,  to  certify  in  chancery  from  time  to 

*  Membrane  1  is  blank. 


41    EDWARD   III.  365 


1307.  Membrane  2Gd — cont. 

time  under  his  seal  the  names  of  the  vendors  and  the  number, 
description  and  priee  of  such  tuns  and  pipes  ;  as  in  diveis  statutes 
lately  puhlislied  at  Westminster  it  is  contained  (among  other  things) 
that  all  wines  brought  into  the  realm  for  sale  shall  be  well  and  truly 
gauged  by  the  gauger  or  his  deputy,  and  that  if  any  man  shall  sell  a  tun  or 
a  pipe  of  wine  not  gauged  the  vendor  shall  forfeit  to  the  king  the  wine  or 
the  value  thereof  ;  and  now  the  king  is  informed  that  certain  vintners 
and  wine  merchants  of  the  said  city,  scheming  to  defraud  the  king 
and  people  touching  the  purchase  of  wines,  are  causing  their  wines  as 
soon  as  unladed  to  be  lodged  not  gauged  in  secret  cellars  and  other 
privy  places,  and  hiding  them  lest  by  the  gauger's  mark  it  may  be  known 
how  much  such  tun  or  pipe  contains,  and  so  a  great  number  of  tuns 
and  pipes  not  containing  the  assize  arc  sold  to  the  king  and  other 
the  lords  and  common  people  as  whole  tuns  and  pipes,  to  their 
prejudice  and  loss  and  contrary  to  the  said  statutes.  By  C. 

Et  erat  patenft. 

Jan.  27.  To  Richard  Tempeste,  Richard  de  Ask,  William  de  Nessefeld  and 

Wostminsfor.  Richard  Poutrell.  Order  for  particular  causes  to  stay  altogether  the 
execution  of  the  king's  late  commission  appointing  them,  three  and 
two  of  them,  to  make  inquisition  by  true  men  of  the  Westrithinge  in 
Yorkshire  concerning  certain  trespasses  in  Queen  Philippa's  forest 
of  Knaresburgh  committed  by  great  number  of  men  of  the  forest,  and 
to  do  other  things  in  that  trithing  in  the  letters  patent  contained. 
By  K.  on  the  information  of  John  de  la  Lee  steward  of  the  household. 

Jan.  30.  William  de  Hoo  knight,  son  of  Thomas  de  Hoo  knight,  to  John  de 

Westminster.  Sleford  parson  of  Balsham,  William  de  Croxton  and  John  de  Barton 
parson  of  Lekhamstede.  Recognisance  for  40/.,  to  be  levied,  in 
default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Surrey. 

Jan.  31.         Thomas  Waryn  of  Somerset  to  Walter  de  Perlee.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  2001.  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Somerset. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Feb.  1.  Robert    Vynter     of    Maydenstan  to     David     de     Wollor     clerk. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  20Z.  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Kent. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Feb.  5.  John  de  Northwode  parson  of  St.  Columb  in  Cornwall  to  Richard 

Westminster,  de  Ravenserc  clerk.     Recognisance  for  20  marks,  to  be  levied  etc. 

of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Cornwall. 


o 


Feb.  6.  Brother  John  de  Fessunis  prior  of  Wenge,  proctor  of  the  abbot 

Westminster,  and    convent    of    the    monastery    of    St.    Nicholas   near    Angers,    to 

Richard  de  Ravenser  canon  in  the  church  of  St.  Mary  Lmcoln  and 

Nicholas  de  Spaigne  clerk.     Recognisance  for  200/.,  to  be  levied  etc. 

of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Bukinghamshire. 


o 


Writing  of  Margaret  Everard,  daughter  sometime  of  Richard  Everard 
of  Welles,  giving  with  warranty  to  William  Lullok,  William  Palmer, 
William  Loueryng  chaplains  and  John  Fresel,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
a  yearly  rent  of  M.  issuing  from  a  tenement  and  16  acres  of  land 
in  Welles  situated  between  a  tenement  of  Roger  Webbe  on  the  east 


366  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1367.  Membrane  2Qd — cont. 

and  a  tenement  of  the  prior  of  St.  John  Baptist  Wells  on  the  west, 
the  land  being  called  Everardclos,  and  all  held  of  the  said  Margaret 
by  Deonisia  who  was  wife  of  Robert  Brasyeter  of  Welles  and  Agnes 
her  daughter  for  their  lives  by  her  demise  with  reversion  to  the  said 
Margaret  and  her  heirs  ;  giving  them  also  the  reversion  of  the  premises 
when  it  shall  fall  in.  Witnesses  :  Henry  Percy,  John  Fresel,  Walter 
Clopton,  Richard  Sydenham,  John  Baj^s,  John  Baili.  Dated  West- 
minster, Thursday  after  St.  Hilary  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
7  February  this  year. 

Writing  of  Richard  Taverner  of  Chelmersford,  granting  to  Helmingus 
Leget  and  Sir  Robert  Crulle  and  to  their  assigns  all  his  estate  in  the 
lands  which  he  has  to  farm  for  a  term  of  years  of  John  Wroth  in 
Chelmersford  and  Spryngefeld  ;  also  for  a  sum  of  money  in  hand  by 
them  paid  all  his  moveable  goods  and  chattels  thereupon,  and  the 
profits  thereof.  Witnesses  :  William  Prentys,  William  Skeet,  John 
Clubbe,  Adam  atte  Pond,  John  Glover.  Dated  Fancherche  in  the 
city  of  London,  Wednesday  the  morrow  of  Michaelmas  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  8  February  this  year. 

Feb.  13.  Robert  provost  of  the  chantry  of  Cotherstoke  to  Henry  de  Bello 

Westminster.  Monte.  Recognisance  for  200  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in 
Norhamptonshire . 

Feb.  13.  John  deNowers  knight  to  William  deStratton  knight.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  80  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Oxfordshire. 
Cancelled    on    payment,    acknowledged    by    Ellen    who    was    wife    of 
the  said  William  and  his  executrix. 

Feb.  14.  John  Chareman  of  Ryclyngg  to  John  Olyver  of  Stanewey,  Thomas 

Westminster.  Rochford  and  Richard  Whitbred  chaplain.  Recognisance  for  100/., 
to  be  levied  etc.  in  Essex. 

Writing  of  Athelina  Bruys,  daughter  of  Bernard  Bruys  of  Thrap- 
ston,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Nicholas  Grene  and  Joan 
his  wife  and  to  Robert  Louetoft  and  Agnes  his  wife,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  the  manors  of  Exton  and  Conyngton  and  all  other  lands 
which  they  hold  in  those  towns  and  in  Cotysmor,  Gretham  and  other 
towns  and  counties  whatsoever,  advowsons  of  churches  and  chapels, 
services,  customs,  reversions,  parks,  woods  etc.  Witnesses  :  Nicholas 
de  Thenford,  Richard  de  Cloune,  John  Daundelyn,  John  de  la 
Caruayl,  Mauger  Wavasour,  Nicholas  Seymour,  Robert  son  of  William 
de  Haldenby,  William  Thyrnyng,  Richard  de  Haverbergh  of  Desburgh, 
William  Logghes,  Edmund  Legat,  John  Landewath,  Adam  de  Orlyng- 
bergh,  William  de  Rothewell  of  Tycliemersh.  Dated  Isham,  Wednes- 
day before  St.  Peter's  Chair  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Otteford 
CO.  Kent,  1  March. 

Membrane  25d. 

Indenture  made  between  Thomas  son  of  William  le  Skynner  of 
Shrewsbury  and  Thomas  de  Byriton  of  Shrewsbury  the  elder, 
witnessing  a  gift  by  the  said  Thomas  son  of  William  made  with  warranty 


i\    I^:DWARD    III.  367 


13()7.  Membrane  2[>d  -cont. 

to  Thomas  dc  Byriton,  his  heirs  cand  assigns,  of  all  lus  lands,  rents 
and  services  in  Churehehanevvode  and  Wodehous  under  the  conditions 
following,  namely  to  render  yearly  to  the  grantor,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  40,s\  at  the  Annunciation  and  Micliaelmas  hy  even  portions 
so  that  it  shall  be  lawful  to  distrain  for  arrears,  and  if  the  said  rent 
be  in  arrear  one  month  after  any  term,  and  the  grantor,  his  heirs  and 
assigns  be  not  so  contented,  it  shall  be  lawful  for  them  to  enter  and 
hold  again  the  premises  until  contented  of  the  arrears  and  of  their 
costs.  Witnesses  :  William  de  Kyton,  Richard  Hord  of  Neweton, 
Richard  Tristrom,  John  de  W^odehalle,  Hugh  le  Warde,  Hugh  Hagcr. 
Dated  Shrewsbury,  Sunday  after  the  Purification  41   Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  at  Westminster, 
12  February. 

Indenture  made  between  Thomas  son  of  William  le  Skynner  of 
Shrewsbury  and  Thomas  de  Byriton  of  Shrewsbury  the  elder,  being 
the  defeasance  of  two  statutes  merchant  made  in  the  town  of 
Shrewsbury  wherein  either  is  to  the  other  bound  in  200Z.,  the  one 
in  case  Thomas  de  Byriton,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  be  impleaded  of  the 
lands,  rents  and  services  which  he  has  of  the  feoffment  of  the  said 
Thomas  son  of  William  in  Churchehanewode  and  Wodehous  in  the  fee 
of  Longesdon  or  any  parcel  thereof  by  any  man  with  title  earlier  than 
these  presents,  shall  vouch  the  said  Thomas  son  of  William  to  warranty, 
and  shall  prosecute  that  voucher  to  judgment  for  recovery  from 
Thomas  son  of  William  and  his  heirs  of  the  value  thereof,  upon 
condition  that  they  shall  at  the  terms  contained  in  a  charter  indented 
thereof  made  by  the  said  Thomas  son  of  William  to  the  said  Thomas 
de  Byriton  or  within  two  years  after  pay  or  cause  to  be  paid  to  Thomas 
son  of  William,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  40s.  yearly  rent  issuing  from 
the  said  lands  so  long  as  their  estate  therein  shall  endure,  or  pro- 
portionally from  so  much  as  shall  remain  in  their  possession ;  and  the 
other  in  case  the  said  Thomas  de  Byriton  and  his  heirs  be  so  impleaded 
concerning  the  said  lands  or  any  parcel  thereof,  and  shall  make  and 
prosecute  their  voucher  as  aforesaid,  and  the  said  Thomas  son  of 
William  or  his  heirs,  having  no  lands,  rents,  services  nor  reversions 
in  fee  simple  to  the  value  recovered  against  the  said  grantees,  shall 
not  be  ready  to  pay  them  in  money  the  value  thereof  within  one 
quarter  of  a  year  after  it  be  so  lost,  upon  condition  that  the  grantees 
shall  make  or  be  ready  to  make  them  a  release  within  eleven  weeks 
of  such  judgment  before  suing  execution  thereof.  Witnesses  : 
Reynold  Perle,  John  Stury,  Richard  Russell,  John  de  Shetton, 
John  de  Campeden.  Dated  Shrewsbury,  Monday  after  the 
Purification  41  Edward  III.     French. 

Memo7-and2(m  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,   12  February. 

Feb.  19.  Simon  Norreys  clerk  of  NorfTolk  and  Ralph  de  Norton  of  Sussex 

Westminster,  to  Queen  Philippa.     Recognisance  for  2001.,  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  the  said  counties. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  Richard  de  Raveneser  the 
said  queen's  attorney. 

Writing  of  William  atte  Reye,  son  and  heir  of  Nicholas  atte  Reye 
of  Cokham,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Hugh  de  Berewyk 
knight  and  Margaret  his  wife,  the  heus  and  assigns  of  the  said  Hugh, 
of  the  lands,  rents  and  services  called  '  le  Reyelond  '  with  the  water 


368 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1367. 


Membrane  2M, — cont. 


mills,  weirs,  fisheries,  fishings,  islands,  '  eytes  '  etc.  in  Cokham,  as 
fully  as  his  said  father  thereof  enfeoffed  the  said  Hugh.  Witnesses  : 
William  de  Molyns,  John  de  Huntercombe,  Roger  de  Puttenham 
knights,  Richard  Gregori  the  elder,  Richard  Gregori  the  younger. 
Dated  Bekenesfeld,  Thursday  before  St.  Peter's  Chair  41  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  February. 

Feb.  20.  Richard  Wydegate  to  Master  John  de  Kenyngton  parson  of  the 

Westminster,  church  of  St.  Dimstan  by  the  Tower  of  London.  Recognisance  for 
20/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Kent. 


Jan.  27.  To   the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order,   if  John  Nichol  merchant  of 

Westminster.  CornA^all  is  impiisoned  in  Neugate,  and  if  one  tun  and  one  pipe 
of  wine  of  his  and  six  tuns  of  wine  of  Andrew  Bakere  merchant  of 
Cornwall  were  by  them  arrested  for  suspicion  concerning  the  death 
of  William  Danj^el  merchant  of  Pembroke  in  Wales  of  the  king's 
allegiance  and  for  no  other  cause,  and  if  the  said  John  and  Andrew 
have  before  them  found  mainpernors  for  whom  the  sheriffs  will  answer 
who  will  mainpern  to  have  the  body  of  the  said  Jolm  before  the  king 
when  the  king  will  enter  upon  the  cause  against  him,  and  to  answer 
for  the  said  wine  or  the  price  thereof  if  for  the  said  cause  it  ought  to 
pertain  to  the  king,  to  set  free  the  said  John  from  prison  and  dearrest 
the  said  wine,  delivering  it  to  the  said  John  and  Andrew,  and  certifying 
in  chancery  the  names  of  the  mainpernors  ;  as  lately  the  king  com- 
manded the  sheriffs  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  of  the  said  John's 
imprisonment  and  of  the  arrest  of  the  said  wine,  and  they  returned 
that  he  was  imprisoned  for  suspicion  concerning  the  death  of  the  said 
William,  who  on  the  feast  of  All  Saints  last  was  slain  at  sea  off  the  to\Mi 
of  Lussebon  in  Spain  by  the  said  John  it  is  said,  that  they  arrested 
his  wine  to  the  king's  use  as  confiscated  for  that  felony,  and  the  wine 
of  the  said  Andrew  as  confiscated  for  that  he  was  present  and  aiding 
in  that  felony  it  was  said  ;  and  now  on  behalf  of  the  said  John  and 
Andrew  petition  is  made  to  the  king  for-  John's  release  and  the  de- 
arrest  of  the  said  wines,  as  they  are  not  guilty  of  the  said  felony  ; 
and  in  the  statute  of  Westminster  the  first  it  is  (among  other  things) 
contained  thai  those  taken  for  suspicion  are  replevisable. 

March  9.  To  Walter  Box  of  K3mgeston  upon  Hull.  Order  to  cause  the  goods 
Westminster,  and  chattels  of  Osbert  Nikelson  of  Denmark,  found  with  him  when 
lately  taken  at  sea  by  the  said  Walter  because  of  a  suspicion  concerning 
him,  to  be  delivered  to  him,  except  such  as  were  reasonably  spent  in 
bringing  him  before  the  king  and  council  and  in  safe  keeping  the  same, 
suffering  him  freely  without  let  to  pass  to  his  own  parts  with  his  said 
goods  ;  as  the  said  Osbert  was  by  Walter  Frost  brought  before  the 
king  and  council,  and  b_v  advice  of  the  council  has  now  by  the  king 
been  set  free  from  prison  where  he  was  detained  for  the  cause 
aforesaid.  By  C. 

March  7.         To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.     Order  to  stay  the  exigents  against  John 

Westminster.  Wyse  of  Kynardynton  and  the  taking  of  his  body  at  the  suit  of 

Thomas  Beneyt  of  Apuldre  by  the  mainprise  of  William  Home  and 

Thomas   Hope   of   Kent,    bringing   this   writ   before   the   justices   at 

Westminster  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable  ;    as  the  said 


41    EDWARD    III.  369 


lo07«  Membrane  25d — cont. 

Thomas  Beneyt  is  impleading  tho  said  John  before  the  said  justices 
for  that  the  said  John  haled  him  before  the  court  of  Christianity  touching 
certain  trespasses  aj^ainst  the  king's  peace,  to  the  hurt  of  the  crown 
and  the  king's  dignity  and  contrary  to  his  proliibition,  and  the  said 
John  is  put  in  exigents  to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came  not  to  answer 
as  ^\■ell  the  king  as  the  said  Thomas  concerning  the  premises,  wherefore 
he  has  prayed  the  king  to  save  him  harmless,  as  he  is  ready  to  stand 
to  right  touching  the  same  ;  and  the  said  William  and  Thomas  Hope 
have  mainperned  before  the  king  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  10^. 
to  have  the  said  John  before  the  justices  to  'answer  on  the  day 
named. 

March  13.        Henry  \^niyssh,  son  and  heir  of  Henry  Whyssh,  to  Thomas  Fissh 
Westminster,  of  Suthwerk  '  hosyere'.     Recognisance  for  40^.,  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Surrey. 

Membrane  2M. 

Charter  of  Roger  Beumond  called  '  Jolyf ,'  giving  with  warranty  to 
William  Camme,  John  Pynnok  and  Roger  Selyman,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  all  his  lands  in  Hankynton  and  Westcruddewell  and  else- 
where within  the  lordship  of  Cruddewell  with  their  appurtenances  as 
in  rents,  services  of  free  men  and  neifs,  reversions,  escheats,  woods, 
meadows,  feedings  and  pastures,  and  all  his  neifs  and  all  that  goes 
with  them  ;  also  the  homage  and  service  of  John  Hubard,  John  Letse 
of  Westcruddewell  and  of  Thomas  Kenct  and  his  heirs,  and  the 
remainder  of  a  messuage,  one  virgate  7  acres  of  land  and  2  acres  of 
meadow  in  the  Inmede  in  Hankynton  now  held  by  Hamon  le  Wodeward 
and  Amice  his  wife  and  by  William  Sadelere  and  Alice  his  wife  for  the 
lives  of  the  said  Amice  and  Alice  with  reversion  to  the  said  Roger 
Beumond  and  his  heirs.  Dated  Hankynton,  Tuesday  before 
St.  Hilary  40  Edward  III.  Witnesses  :  John  de  Dauntese  and 
Edward  Cerne  knights,  Thomas  Drew,  William  Hasard,  Richard 
Urdele. 

Writing  of  Roger  Beumond  called  '  Jolyf,'  being  a  quitclaim  with 
wananty  to  William  de  Camme,  John  Pynnok  and  Roger  Selyman 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands,  rents,  homages,  services, 
reversions  etc.  which  they  have  of  the  said  Roger  Beumond's  gift  and 
feoffjnent  in  Hankynton,  Westcruddewell  and  elsewhere  within  the 
lordship  of  Cruddewell,  and  of  all  lands  sometime  of  John  de 
Hankynton  in  the  said  towns.  Dated  Malmesbury,  Sunday  before  the 
Conversion  of  St.  Paul  40  Edward  III.     Witnesses  [as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
\\Titing,   10  February  this  year. 

T^'riting  of  John  Laundels  of  Bampton,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  John  de  Bockote  of  Berkshire,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  a  messuage  called  Fowersmull  and  one  carucate  of  land  with  rents, 
farms,  services,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures  etc.  in  Shryvenham. 
Witnesses :  Edmund  Gyffard,  Edmund  Dauvers,  Robert  Tresilian, 
John  W^ythegenmull,  Thomas  de  Themese.  Dated  Wantyng, 
12  February  41  Edward  III. 

Mcmorandxim  of  acknowledgment,  13  February, 

E  24  ■ 


370  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1367,  Membrane  24:d — cont. 

Writing  of  Richard  son  of  John  de  Home  of  Apuldre,  being  a  grant 
and  quitclaim  to  William  de  Home  his  brother  of  all  the  lands  of 
his  said  father  in  Kent,  with  general  release  of  all  actions  real  and 
personal  against  the  said  William,  his  heirs  or  executors.  Dated 
24  January  40  Edward  III.  Witnesses  :  Henry  de  Gosebourne, 
John  Lynot,  John  Parker,  John  atte  Reche,  John  Feldeswell,  Richard 
Denys,  Thomas  de  Hope. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  February  this  year. 

Feb.  18.         John  Londy  to  Vrilliam  del  Frj^th.     Recognisance  for  20  marks, 
Westminster,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,   of  his^  lands  and  chattels  in 
Norhamptonshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

Feb.  8.  To  the  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Plummuth.     Order  at  their  peril,  for 

Westminster,  particular  causes  newly  moving  the  king,  on  sight  of  these  presents 
to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  forbidding  any  man,  under  pain 
of  forfeiture,  without  the  king's  licence  and  special  command,  to  pass 
out  of  the  realm  to  foreign  parts,  or  to  take  out  of  the  realm  any  horse 
or  mare,  armour,  bows  or  arrows,  known  merchants  excepted, 
whom  the  king  will  suffer  to  cross  the  sea  without  horses,  mares, 
armour,  bows  and  arrows,  and  to  cause  any  found  so  doing  after  the 
proclamation  to  be  arrested  with  such  horses,  mares,  armour,  bows 
and  arrows  and  kept  under  arrest,  certifying  the  king  from  time  to 
time  of  the  names  of  those  arrested.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Fcedera.] 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

The  bailiffs  of  Herewic,  and  the  customers,  keepers  of  the  passage 

and  the  king's  searchers  in  that  port. 
The  bailiffs  etc.  of  Romeneye. 
The  bailiffs  of  Lyme  and  of  37  other  towns  and  places,  including 

the  isle  of  Tanet. 
The  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London,  the  customers  etc. 
The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Exeter  and  of  nine  other  cities  and 

towns. 
Thomas  Havenere  keeper  of  all  ports  and  passages  in  Cornwall, 

the  customers  etc. 
The  steward  and  bailiffs  of  Holdernesse. 
The  sheriff  of  Lancastre  and  fifteen  other  sheriffs. 
[Ihid.] 

Feb.  25.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk  and  Suffolk.  Order,  for  particular  causes, 
Westminster,  under  pain  of  forfeiture,  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  forbidding 
any  merchant  or  other  of  whatsoever  condition,  under  pain  of  forfeiture, 
by  himself  or  others  to  take  out  of  the  realm  to  Scotland  privily  or 
openly  by  sea  or  land  horses,  mares  or  other  animals,  bows,  arrows 
or  other  arms  and  armour,  corn  or  other  victual  by  cause,  colour  or 
device  whatsoever,  and  to  arrest  and  safe  keep  under  arrest  until 
further  order  any  whom  they  shall  find  so  doing  after  the  proclamation 
with  such  horses,  arms,  victuals  etc.,  certifying  in  chancery  from 
time  to  time  under  seal  whom  he  has  so  arrested.  By  p.s.  [27281.] 

[Ibid.} 


41    EDWARD    III.  371 


1307 J  Membrane  24:d — cont. 

The  like  to  tlio  following,  mutatis  mutandis. 
The  shorifT  of  Lincoln  and  five  other  sheriffs. 
The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull  and  of  six  other 

cities  and  towns. 
The  bailiffs  of  Boston  and  of  two  other  towns. 
The  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London. 
Thomas  bishop   of   Durham,  for  proclamation  within  the  liberty 

of  the  bishopric. 
Ralpli  Spigurnell  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of  tho 

Cinque  Ports,  or  his  lieutenant. 
[Ibid.'] 

Membrane  2M. 

Feb.  10.  To  Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford  and  lord  of  Breghenok, 

Westminster,  or  to  his  re2:)resontative  or  stewards  there.  Order  upon  his  allegiance, 
as  he  loves  the  king's  honour  and  the  safety  of  the  realm,  without 
delay  to  cause  a  set  number  of  fencible  men  to  be  chosen  at  their  dis- 
cretion of  the  lordships  aforesaid,  furnished  according  to  their  estate 
and  made  ready  with  competent  arms  to  march  when  danger  threatens 
with  other  the  king's  lieges  upon  warning  received  for  defence  of 
the  realm  against  his  enemies,  if  any  such  shall  presume  to  invade 
the  realm  in  Wales  or  elsewhere,  certifying  their  action  in  chancery 
under  seal  as  speedily  as  may  be;  as  the  king,  willing  to  provide 
against  the  hurt  and  peril  which  are  to  be  feared  from  such  inroads, 
as  he  has  learned  by  the  report  of  many,  has  commanded  all  the 
fencible  men  in  every  county  between  the  age  of  16  and  60  years  to 
be  armed,  arrayed  and  tried  so  as  to  be  ready  to  march  against  the 
king's  enemies  as  aforesaid.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Foedera.] 

The  like  to  the  following,  or  to  their  representatives  or  stewards  : 
John  duke  of  Lancastre,  lord  of  Monemuth,  Grossemount,  White- 

castel,  Kedewelly,  Carnewellan  and  Iskennen. 
The  keepers  of  the  lordships  and  lands  of  Ewyas  Lacy,  Kery, 
Kedewy,      Blenleveny,      Crughowel,      Estredewy,      Radenore, 
Warthynyon,  Wygemor,  Melnyth,  Buelt  and  Nerber. 
Agnes  countess  of  Pembroke,  lady  of  Overewent  and  Bergeveny. 
Lionel  duke  of  Clarence,  lord  of  Usk. 

Ralph  earl  of  Stafford,  lord  of  Neuport  and  Netherwent. 
Walter  de  Mauny,  lord  of  Strogoil. 

Edward  le  Despenser,  lord  of  Glamorgan  and  Morgannon. 
Thomas  de  Bello  Campo  earl  of  Warrewyk,  lord  of  Gower  and 

Elvayl. 
John  de  la  Ware,  lord  of  Haraldesewyas. 
The  lord  of  Dynebegh  and  Monte  Goraery. 
Reynold  de  Grey,  lord  of  Deffrencloit. 
Richard  earl  of  Arundell,  lord  of  Bromfeld,  Yale,  Chirk,  Oswaldestre 

and  Clone. 
James  Daudeley,  lord  of  Whitynton. 
John  de  Cherleton,  lord  of  Powys. 

Ralph  earl  of  Stafford  and  his  parceners,  lords  of  Caux. 
Roger  Lestrange,  lord  of  Knokyn  and  Ellesmere. 
Ed\\'ard  prince  of  W^ales  duke  of  Cornwall  and  earl  of  Chester, 
his  justices  in  South  Wales  and  North  Wales,  or  his  stewards 
in  the  said  duchy  and  county. 
{Ibid.} 


372  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1307.  Membrane  23d — cont. 

March  G.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order  to  stay  the  exigents  against  Benedict 
Westminster.  Cely  and  the  taking  of  his  body  by  the  mainprise  of  Steplien  Botiller 
and  William  Moryce  of  Kent,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices 
of  the  Bench  on  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  that  Lawrence  de  Corboyle  and  Joan  his  wife  are 
impleading  the  said  Benedict  before  the  said  justices  to  render  account 
for  the  time  he  was  the  said  Joan's  bailiff  in  Old  Comene  {sic)  and 
Ivechirche  and  receiver  of  her  moneys,  and  that  without  his  knowledge 
(as  he  avers)  he  is  put  in  exigents  to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came 
not  before  the  justices  to  answer  them  thereupon,  wherefore  he  has 
prayed  the  king  to  save  him  harmless,  as  he  is  ready  to  stand  to  right 
touching  the  premises ;  and  the  said  Stephen  and  William  have 
mainperned  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  40^.  to  have  him  before  the 
said  justices  on  the  day  named  to  answer  concerning  the  premises. 

March  1.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  stay  the  exigents  against 
Westminster.  Vincent  le  Botillere  and  the  taking  of  his  body  by  the  mainprise  of 
John  Walden  and  Henry  Diryn  of  Gloucestershire,  bringing  this  writ 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  on  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is 
returnable  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  that  Thomas  de  Thorneye  is 
impleading  the  said  Vincent  before  the  said  justices  to  render  an  account 
for  the  time  that  he  was  receiver  of  the  moneys  of  the  said  Thomas, 
and  that  without  his  knowledge  as  he  says  he  is  put  in  exigents  in 
the  busting  of  London  to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came  not  before 
the  said  justices  to  answer  the  said  Thomas,  wherefore  he  has  prayed  the 
king  to  be  saved  harmless  as  he  is  ready  to  stand  to  right  touching 
the  premises  ;  and  the  said  John  and  Henrj'^  have  mainperned  before 
the  king  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  201.  to  have  the  said  Vincent 
before  the  said  justices  at  the  day  named  to  answer  as  aforesaid. 

Eeb.  18.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Thomas 

Westminster.  Tiewe,  to  stay  the  exigents  against  him  and  the  taking  of  his  body 
by  the  mainprise  of  Robert  de  Nayljmgherst  clerk  and  Clement  Spice 
of  Essex,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  at  the 
day  a  writ  de  judicio  against  him  at  the  suit  of  William  Stedeman  is 
returnable  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  the  said  William  is  impleading 
him  before  the  said  justices  for  an  alleged  trespass,  that  he  was  by 
the  said  writ  put  in  exigents  in  the  busting  of  London  to  be  outlawed 
for  that  he  came  not  before  the  said  justices  to  answer  the  said 
William,  and  that  he  is  ready  so  to  answer,  praying  that  the  exigents 
against  him  be  stayed  until  the  day  named  ;  and  the  said  Robert 
and  Clement  have  mainperned  before  the  king  in  chancery  under 
a  pain  of  lOQs.  to  have  the  said  Thomas  before  the  said  justices  at 
that  day  to  ansAver  as  aforesaid. 

Feb.  22.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Roger 
Westminster.  Cheyne  knight,  to  stay  the  exigents  against  him  and  the  taking  of 
his  body  by  the  mainprise  of  Thomas  de  la  Boure,  John  de  Sibton 
of  the  county  of  Salop,  William  de  Neuton  and  John  de  Huglej'  of 
Staffordshire,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench 
on  the  day  a  writ  dc  judicio  against  him  at  the  suit  of  Thomas  de 
Coun  knight  is  returnable ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  the  said  Thomas 
de  Coun  is  impleading  him  before  the  said  justices  for  a  debt  of  200  marks, 
that  by  the  said  writ  he  was  put  in  exigents  in  the  busting  of  London 
to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came  not  before  the  said  justices  to  answer 


41    EDWARD    III. 


373 


13074 


Membrane  %\d — cont. 


the  saiil  'J'hoinas,  and  that  he  is  ready  so  to  answer,  praying  tliat  tlio 
exigents  against  him  be  stayed  until  the  day  named  ;  and  the  said 
maini)ern()rs  have  mainperned  before  tlie  king  in  chancery  under 
a  pain  of  200  marks  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  on  the  day 
named  to  answer  as  aforesaid. 

Feb.  4.  To  Thomas  de  Lodelowe  and  his  feHows,  justices  of  assize  in  Essex. 

Westininster.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  Scot  and  Margaret  his  wife,  to  proceed 
to  take  an  assize  of  novel  disseisin  by  them  arraigned  against  Edward 
son  of  John  de  Ixinstede  and  others  concerning  tenements  in  Welcom- 
stowe,  doing  justice  to  the  parties,  the  allegation  before  them  made 
in  that  assize  that  the  tenements  put  in  view  were  by  reason  of  the 
nonage  of  the  said  Edward  taken  into  the  king's  hand  and  by  the 
king's  letters  patent  committed  to  Richard  de  Punchardon  until 
his  lawful  age  notwithstanding,  so  that  they  do  not  proceed  to 
rendering  of  judgment  without  advising  the  king  ;  as  the  said  John 
and  Margaret  have  shewn  tlie  king  that  they  arraigned  the  said  assize, 
putting  in  view  a  messuage,  40  acres  of  land  and  2  acres  of  meadow 
in  Welcomstowe,  and  that  the  said  justices  have  deferred  to  take 
the  same  by  reason  of  the  allegation  aforesaid,  praying  for  remedy. 

March  7.         William  de  Beyford,  for  his  good  service,  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and 
Sheppey.      convent  of  Wardon,  to  take  such  maintenance  in  that  house  for  life 
as  Warin  de  Stanford  deceased  had  there  at  the  king's  request. 

By  p.s.  [27286.] 

Writing  of  Thomas  son  of  John  Paget  of  Sandwic,  being  a  quitclaim 
to  Edmund  de  Stablegate  citizen  of  Canterbury,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  all  lands  which  he  has  of  the  feoffment  of  the  said  Thomas  in 
Sturmouth,  Elmereston  and  Preston  by  Wyngham.  Dated  Canter- 
bury, 26  March  41  Edward  III.  Witnesses  :  John  de  Sheldwych, 
John  Tiece  then  bailiffs  of  Canterbury,  Nicholas  atte  Crouche, 
Thomas  Everard,  Stephen  de  Hoo,  Thomas  Perot,  Robert  de 
Wendirton,  Walter  Blere,  Thomas  de  Bonynton,  Thomas  Moselee, 
William  the  clerk. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  before  Simon  archbishop  of 
Canterbury  the  chancellor  in  his  palace  at  Canterbury,  27  March. 

March  6.         Roger  de  Wyght,  for  good  service,  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent 

Sheppey.      of  Derham,  to  take  such  maintenance  in  that  house  for  life  as  Master 

John  Mareschal  deceased  had  there  at  the  king's  requesfe. 

By  p.s.  [27284.] 

Membrane  22d. 

March  25.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  parson  of 
Westminster.  Snave,  to  stay  the  taking  of  his  body  by  the  mainprise  of  Geoft'rey 
atte  Wode  and  Roger  Mot'  of  Kent,  bringing  this  writ  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  on  the  day  a  A\rit  de  judicio  against  him  at  the 
suit  of  John  Hammynghurst  is  returnable  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that 
he  is  being  impleaded  before  the  said  justices  by  the  said  John 
Hammynghurst  concerning  an  alleged  trespass,  that  the  king  by 
writ  de  judicio  has  ordered  the  sheriff  to  take  him  so  as  to  have  him 
before  the  said  justices  fifteen  days  after  Easter  to  ans\^er  the  said 
plaintiff,  for  that  the  sheriff  returned  before  the  justices   that   the 


374 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1367. 


Membrane  22d — cont. 


said  parson  was  not  found  and  had  nothing  in  his  baiUwick  whereby 
he  might  be  attached,  and  that  he  is  ready  so  to  answer  and  to  stand 
to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Geoffrey  and  Roger  have  main- 
perned  before  the  king  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  40  marks  to 
have  his  body  before  the  justices  on  the  day  named  to  answer  as 
aforesaid. 


April  20.  To  John  Knyvet.  Order,  if  assured  by  inquisition  or  otherwise 
Westmmstor.  that  Thomas  de  Arden  knight,  abiding  over  seas  upon  the  king's 
service  in  the  company  of  Edward  prince  of  Aquitaine  and  Wales, 
is  the  same  person  ^\'ho  is  by  the  name  of  Thomas  de  Ardern  indicted 
before  the  said  John  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hear  and 
determine  divers  trespasses  and  mischiefs  committed  against  Thomas 
earl  of  Warrewyk  in  divers  places  in  War^vickshire,  and  is  for  that 
reason  put  in  exigents  in  that  county  to  be  outlawed,  to  command 
a  stay  of  the  exigents  against  him,  and  of  the  publication  of  outlawry 
until  13  February  next,  and  after  to  command  proceedings  to  go  on, 
if  he  shall  not  appear,  making  allowance  of  the  county  courts  wherein 
he  has  so  been  in  exigents  towards  the  pubhcation  of  such  outlawry, 
and  bringing  tliis  writ  before  himself  and  his  fellows  on  the  day  the 
writ  of  exigents  is  returnable  ;  as  on  13  February  last  the  king  by 
letters  patent  to  last  for  one  year  took  the  said  Thomas  de  Arden 
knight  under  his  protection,  his  men,  lands,  property,  rents  and 
possessions,  and  it  is  the  king's  will  that  he  be  quit  of  all  pleas  and 
plaints,  except  pleas  of  dower  whereof  he  has  nought,  of  quxire 
impedit,  novel  disseisin  and  last  presentation,  and  except  attaints 
and  causes  summoned  before  justices  in  eyre  upon  their  eyre  ;  and 
on  behalf  of  the  said  Thomas  it  is  shewn  the  king  that,  though  he  is 
abiding  over  seas  as  aforesaid  so  that  he  may  not  come  before  the 
said  justices  to  answer  for  the  trespasses  whereof  he  is  indicted  by 
the  name  of  Thomas  de  Ardern  it  is  said,  he  is  nevertheless  put  in 
exigents  in  the  said  coimty  to  be  outlawed,  contrary  to  the  said 
letters  patent,  praying  remedy  for  him  in  that  behalf. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Warrewyk.  Order  {as  above)  to  stay  the  exigents 
against  Thomas  de  Arden  knight  and  the  publication  of  outlawry 
against  him  until  13  February  next,  bringing  this  MTit  before  the 
justices  above  mentioned  on  the  day  the  \vrit  of  exigents  is  returnable 
etc.  {as  above.) 

March  4.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton.  Order  to  set  free  William  Karlell 
Westminster,  of  Pokebroke  from  the  prison  of  Norhampton  castle  by  the  mainprise 
of  Thomas  de  Thelwall  the  king's  clerk,  parson  of  Pokebroke,  and 
Richard  Palmer  of  Pokebroke  co.  Norhampton,  bringing  this  writ 
in  chancery  three  A\eeks  after  Easter  next ;  as  in  the  statute  con- 
cerning jurors  lately  published  it  is  contained  that,  if  in  taking  assizes, 
juries  or  other  inquisitions  between  the  king  and  another,  or  between 
one  party  and  another,  any  man  take  aught  by  himself  or  others  from 
plaintiff  or  defendant  for  giving  his  verdict,  and  be  thereof  convicted 
by  process  according  to  the  statute  at  the  suit  of  a  party  for  the  king 
or  for  himself,  or  of  any  who  will  sue  in  that  behalf,  every  such  juror 
shall  pay  tenfold  what  he  so  took,  whereof  one  moiety  shall  go  to  the 
king  and  the  other  to  the  party  suing,  so  that  no  justice  or  minister 
of  the  king  shall  have  power  to  make  inquisition  of  his  office  upon  this 


41    KDWAUl)    HI. 


375 


ia()7. 


Membrane  22d — cont. 


lu'ud,  but  only  at  the  suit  of  one  or  other  party  ;  and  now  it  is  .shown 
the  king  on  behalf  of  the  said  William  that  he  with  other  jurors  was 
put  upon  an  impiisition  taken  at  Norhanipton  by  writ  of  nisi  prius 
before  Thomas  de  Ingelby  and  John  Cavendish  justiees  of  assize  in 
that  eounty  touehing  a  writ  of  quare  impcdit  obtained  by  Roger  de 
Elinerigge  before  the  justiees  of  the  Bench  against  William  Latymer 
concerning  the  presentation  to  the  church  of  Burton,  and  by  incpaisition 
taken  before  the  said  justices  was  convicted  of  having  taken  for  his 
verdict  lOs.  of  the  plaintiff  and  Gs.  Sd.  of  the  defendant,  and  is  for  that 
cause  unlawfully  detained  in  the  said  prison  in  custody  of  the  sheriff, 
wherefore  hs  has  prayed  for  remedy  ;  and  the  said  Thomas  and 
Richard  have  inainperncd  in  chancery  to  have  his  body  there  before 
the  kmg  on  the  day  above  named  to  content  the  king  of  the  penalty 
in  the  said  statute  appointed,  if  it  shall  then  be  adjudged  that  he 
is  liable  for  the  same,  and  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court  shall 
therein   determine. 

April  3.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton.     Order,  if  Peter  Godbody  of  Wadenho 

Westminstor  shall  find  mainpernors,  for  whom  the  sheriff  will  answer,  who  will 
mainpern  to  have  his  body  in  chancery  tlnee  weeks  after  Easter,  to 
content  the  king  of  the  penalty  in  the  statute  concerning  jurors 
appointed,  if  it  shall  then  be  adjudged  etc.,  to  set  him  free  from 
prison  by  such  mainprise,  bringing  this  ^^'rit  in  chancery  on  the  day 
named  ;     as  in  the  said  statute  it  is  contained  etc.  {as  above). 

Writing  of  John  de  Sancto  Johanne,  being  a  release  of  all  actions, 
demands  and  reservations  of  right  or  possession  to  him  due  or 
reserved  by  indentures  made  between  the  said  John  and  Sir  Ralph  de 
Dudelesfeld  clerk  touching  a  charter  of  feoffment  of  the  manor  of 
Lodegarsliale,  by  the  said  John  made  to  the  said  Ralph  and  his  heirs, 
which  charter  shall  remain  in  force  witliout  any  condition  or 
reservation  ;  and  a  quitclaim  with  w arranty  of  the  said  manor  to 
the  said  Ralph,  his  heirs  and  assigns.  Witnesses  :  William  de 
Boxfeld,  Walter  Porter,  John  Parker,  William  Kembare,  WilUam 
de  Haukesfold.  Dated  Potteworth,  Saturday  before  the  Epiphany 
39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  May  tliis  year. 

May  7.  John  de  Foxcote  to  Robert  Lucas  of  London.     Recognisance  for 

Westminster.  40  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Gloucestershire. 


Charter  of  John  de  Wliitefeld  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to  Guy 
de  Briene  knight,  Thomas  Don  and  William  Phissh  clerks,  and  to 
the  heirs  of  the  said  Guy,  his  manor  of  Wirdesford  Belet  and  3  acres 
of  meadow  in  Mourton,  with  the  rents  and  services  of  free  men  and 
villeins  to  the  said  manor  belonging,  and  the  bailiwick  of  keeping 
t  the  rivers  and  Stoure  f  (custodiendi  ripas  aquarum  et  Stoure)  in 
Dorset.  Witnesses  :  Nicholas  Poynlz  kniglit,  Adam  atte  Moure, 
Walter  Belet,  John  de  Warmwell,  John  Shuard,  Robert  Shirard. 
Dated  Wyrdesford,  Wednesday  in  Easter  week  41  Edward  III. 

Metnorandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  May.  ; 


'Me  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1367.  Membrane  22d—conL 

May  8.  Walter  Forester  alderman  of  London  to  William  Power.     Recog- 

Westminster.  nisance  for  llOZ.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 

May  8.  John  Chareman  of  Essex   to   Queen  Philippa.     Recognisance  for 

Westminster.  100/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Essex. 

Cancelled  on  payment,   acknowledged  by  Richard  de  Raveneser  the 
said  queen^s  attorney. 

Membrane  2\d. 
Feb.  24.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made 
Westminster,  on  the  king's  behalf  forbidding  any  merchant  or  other  native  under 
pain  of  forfeiture  to  take  cloths  of  '  worstede '  out  of  the  realm 
otherwise  than  is  in  the  ordinance  appointed,  and  forbidding  any 
native  or  ahen  of  whatsoever  condition  so  to  take  out  sea  coal, 
millstones  or  merchandise  called  '  f  el  ware,'  and  to  arrest  and  keep 
in  safe  custody  until  further  order  any  found  so  doing  after  the 
proclamation  with  their  goods  and  merchandise  so  to  be  taken  out, 
certifying  in  chancery  from  time  to  time  the  names  of  those  arrested 
and  the  description  and  quantity  of  such  goods  ;  as  with  the  assent 
of  the  prelates,  nobles  and  others  of  the  council  the  king  has  ordered 
that  no  native  shall  under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof  take  the  said 
cloths  to  any  foreign  parts  save  only  the  town  of  Calais,  and  no 
native  or  alien  shall  without  the  king's  special  command  and  licence 
take  coal,  millstones  or  '  felware.'  By  K.  and  C. 

[Foedera.'] 

The  like  to  the  following  : 
^  The  sheriff  of  Norffolk  and  Suffolk,  and  fourteen  other  sheriffs. 

The  mayor  and  baihffs  of  the  town  and  the  collectors  of  customs 

in  the  port  of  Sandwic,  and  of  seven  other  cities  and  towns. 
The  bailiffs  of  the  town  and  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port 

of  Melcombe,  and  of  three  other  toAvns. 
The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Lincoln,  and  of  York. 
The  bailiffs  of  Wynchelse,  and  of  twelve  other  towns. 
Ralph  Spigurnell  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of  the 
Cinque  Ports,  or  his  lieutenant. 
[Ibid.-] 

Charter  of  John  son  and  heir  of  Stephen  Cankan  of  Great  Driffeld, 
giving  with  warranty  to  Beatrice  de  Arderne  of  Great  Driffeld  and 
Hugh  de  Arderne  her  son,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  the  lands  and 
tenements  in  the  to-wTi  and  fields  of  Great  Driffeld  co.  York  which 
the  grantor  had  by  inheritance  after  his  said  father's  death.  Wit- 
nesses :  Alexander  de  Lith'  of  ^^^liteby,  Thomas  de  Beverleye, 
John  More,  Robert  Sturmy,  William  de  Feriby.  Dated  Westminster, 
Wednesday  after  the  Invention  of  Holy  Cross  41   Edward  III. 

Writing  of  John  son  and  heir  of  Stephen  Cankan  of  Great  Driffeld, 
being  a  letter  of  attorney  to  John  Drenge  or  William  Scotte  of  Great 
Driffeld  to  deliver  to  Beatrice  de  Arderne  of  Great  Driffeld  and  Hugh 
de  Arderne  her  son  seisin  in  all  the  lands  and  tenements  in  the  town 
and  fields  of  Great  Driffeld  which  the  said  John  son  of  Stephen  had 
by  inheritance  after  his  father's  death,  according  to  his  charter  of 
feoffment.     Dated  {as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  6  May. 


41    EDWARD    III. 


377 


1367. 


May  3. 

Westminstor. 


Membrane  2ld — cont. 


Writing 


of  Richard  Warde,  son  of  John  Wardc  of  Radowyntcr 
and  cousin  and  licir  of  Alexander  do  Neuport  isoineiiine  par.son  of 
Warefeld,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Isabel  who  was  wife 
of  John  Ootcrel  of  Wynkefeld,  lier  hciis  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands, 
rents  and  services  in  the  town  of  Yeshanipstede  by  him  the  said 
Richard  demised  to  tlie  said  John  for  a  term  of  thirteen  years 
beginning  on  10  January  29  ]<]dward  III,  which  lands  after  his  death 
came  to  the  said  Isabel  his  executrix.  Witnesses  :  Richard  Ay  lard, 
William  Alfred,  John  Saward,  Robert  Saward,  William  atte  Lake, 
Walter  atte  Garstone,  John  atte  Westende.  Dated  Wynkefeld, 
11  May  {sic)  41  Edward  111. 

Merrwrandum  of  acknowledgment,  10  May  {sic). 

To  Alan  de  l^uckeshuU  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London,  or  to  his 
lieutenant.  Order  to  receive  and  keep  in  safe  custody  in  the  prison 
of  the  Tower  until  further  order  William  de  Hasthorp,  whom  at  the 
king's  command  John  de  la  Lee  steward  of  the  king's  household  shall 


deliver  to  him. 


By  K. 


May  11.         Edmund    Bernard,    Thomas    Baillif    and    William    Mule  ward    of 
Westminster.  Norhaniptonshire  to  Queen  Philippa.     Joint  and  several  recognisance 
for  100^.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of    payment,  of    theii'    lands  and 
chattels  in  Norhamptonshhe. 

Cancelled  on   'payment,   acknowledged   by   Richard  de   Ravenser   late 
the  said  queen's  treasurer. 


May  11. 

Westminster. 


May  11. 

Westminster. 


May  11. 

Westminster. 


William  de  Morle  knight  to  Adam  Fraunceys  citizen  and  mercer 
of  London.     Recognisance  for  200^.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Norffolk. 
Cancelled   on   payment. 

Richard    de    Haveryng    knight    to    William    de     Mh-feld     clerk. 
Recognisance  for  30/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  the  city  of  London. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


Thomas  de  la  Ryvere  to  Thomas  bishop  of  Durham, 
for  200/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Wyltes. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


Recognisance 


May  13.         John  Bernard  of  Leycestershire  to  Queen  Pliilippa. 
Westminster,  for  10/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Leycestershire. 


Recognisance 


Writing  of  Richard  earl  of  Arundell  and  Surrey,  being  an  acquit- 
tance for  80/.  due  to  liim  upon  a  bond  of  John  de  Chierlieu  sometime 
prior  of  the  house  of  the  Holy  Saviour  Bermondeseye  and  the  convent, 
received  by  the  hands  of  Peter  de  Tevole  now  prior,  covenanting  that 
the  said  bond  if  hereafter  found  shall  be  given  up  and  annulled. 
Dated  Kenyngton,  10  May  41  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  12  May. 


Membrane  20c/. 

Writing  of  Elizabeth  who  was  daughter  of  Nicholas  de  Bourne 
knight,  being  a  quitclaim  to  John  de  Harlyngg  and  Margery  his  wife, 
the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  John,  of  the  manor  of  Longestratton 
and  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  St.  Mary  Longestratton ;    also 


378  CALENDAR  01*  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1367.  Membrane  20d—cont. 

of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  sometime  of  the  said  Nicholas  in 
Tasburgh,  Waketon,  Multon  and  Moringthorpe.  Witnesses  :  Henry 
Bretoun,  James  de  Wrotham,  John  Garlek,  John  Michel,  Peter 
Bryon,  John  Braunche,  John  son  of  Roger  de  Garboldesham.  Dated 
Garboldesham,  Svinday  the  feast  of  St.  Ambrose  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  6  April,  at  Norwich,  before 
William  de  Wychingham,  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus 
potestatem  which  is  on  the  files  of  chancery  for  this  year. 

Writing  of  Elizabeth  named  and  by  some  men  called  daughter 
of  Nicholas  de  Bourne  knight,  being  a  like  quitclaim  to  John  de 
Harlyng  and  Margery  his  wife.     Witnesses  and  date  {as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  [as  the  last). 

Indenture  made  at  Wych  Maubank  on  Friday  the  morrow  of  the 
Annunciation  41  Edward  III,  between  John  Lovel  lord  of  Tyclie- 
mersh  knight  and  John  Delves  laiight,  being  a  lease  with  warranty 
to  the  said  John  Delves  and  his  assigns  for  ten  years  of  all  the  lands 
and  mills  of  the  said  John  Lovel,  with  the  rents,  suits  of  court  etc. 
of  a  sixth  part  of  the  barony  of  Wych  Malbank  co.  Chester,  saving  to 
the  lessor,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the  knights'  fees,  advowsons  of  churches 
and  chapels,  scutages,  escheats,  homages,  fealties,  wards,  marriages  and 
reliefs,  at  a  yearly  rent  of  50Z.  payable  in  the  church  of  St.  Cedde 
at  Lychefeld  at  Michaelmas  and  the  Annunciation  by  even  portions. 
Covenants  that  the  lessee  shall  maintain  the  pi'emises  without  waste, 
and  so  deliver  them  after  the  term  is  ended  ;  that  the  lessor  may 
distrain  for  arrears  of  the  said  rent,  and  if  the  same  be  in  arrear  one 
month  he  may  enter  again  and  hold  the  premises,  this  demise 
notwithstanding  ;  tliat  if  the  lessee  shall  take  fines  of  tenants  of  the 
premises  whatsoever  holding  for  a  term  of  years  by  demise  of  John 
Lovel  knight  father  of  the  lessor,  which  term  is  almost  ended,  or  of 
any  other  willing  to  hold  the  same  for  the  rent  and  services  accustomed 
or  for  a  greater  rent,  he  shall  be  bound  forthwith  to  pay  one  moiety 
of  such  fines  to  the  lessor,  his  heirs  and  assigns. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  21  May. 

May  20.         John  de  Delves  knight  to  John  Lovel  knight.     Recognisance  for 
Westminster.  501.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Staffordshire. 

Indenture  made  at  London,  21  May  41  Edward  III,  being  a 
defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon  condition  that  if  Sir 
Jolin  Lovel  knight  lord  of  Tychemersh,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  shall  enter 
the  lands  of  the  sixth  part  of  the  barony  of  Wych  Maubanc  co. 
Chester,  knights'  fees,  advowsons  of  churches  and  chapels,  scutages, 
escheats,  homages,  fealties,  wards,  marriages,  and  reliefs  excepted, 
for  default  of  payment  of  the  rent  thereof  under  the  condition  specified 
in  a  lease  of  the  premises  by  him  granted  to  Sir  Joiui  de  Delves 
for  ten  years  at  a  rent  of  501.  a  year,  payable  in  the  church  of 
St.  Ceadde  Lycheffeld  at  Michaelmas  and  Lady  Day  by  even  portions, 
the  said  lessee,  his  heu's  or  executors,  shall  at  the  time  of  such  entry 
pay  or  be  ready  to  pay  so  much  as  shall  be  in  arrear  of  the  said  rent 
for  all  time  past.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  21  May. 


41    EDWARD    III.  379 


18()7.  Membrane  2Qd — cont. 

May  20.         William   son  of  William   Haulay   to   William   do   Wykeham   arch- 
Wostininstor.  deacon  of  Lincoln.     Recognisance  for  400/.,  to   be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Jjincolnshite. 

Cancelled  on  •payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  William  now  bishop 
of  Winchester. 

May  26.         John    de    Ditton    clerk    to    William    Meuryk    parson    of    Castle 
Westminster.  Framlyngham.     Recognisance  for  300/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Hunting- 
donsliire. 

May  26.         William  Meuryk  parson  of  Castle  Frandyngham  to  John  de  Ditton 
Westminster,  clerk.     Recognisance  for  300/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Suffolk. 

Writing  of  John  Gravcsende  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  giving 
with  warranty  to  John  Gower,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  10/.  free  quit 
rent  to  be  taken  every  year  at  Michaelmas  of  all  the  lands  of  the 
grantor  as  well  in  Kent  as  in  the  city  of  London,  with  power  to 
distrain  therein  for  arrears  and  costs.  W^itnesses  :  John  de  Stodeye, 
John  Tornegold,  William  de  Essex  citizens  of  London,  John  Page, 
William  Galoun  of  Kent.     Dated  London,  1  June  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  June. 

Membrane  l9d. 

May  20.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln.  Order  to  stay  by  the  mainprise  of  James 
Westminster,  de  Sothill  and  W^illiam  Preston  of  Lincolnshire  the  taking  of  the 
body  of  Alice  daughter  of  John  de  Everyngham  of  the  diocese  of 
Lincoln,  a  nun  of  Haversholme  priory  of  the  order  of  Sempyngham, 
and  the  execution  of  the  king's  command  to  arrest  and  deliver  her 
to  brother  William  master  of  the  said  order  or  to  his  attorney  to  be 
chastised  according  to  the  rule  of  the  order  ;  as  lately  at  the  request 
of  the  said  master,  signifying  to  the  king  by  letters  patent  that  the 
said  Alice,  a  nun  professed  of  the  said  order,  was  apostate  therefrom, 
despising  the  habit  thereof,  and  wandering  from  country  to  country 
in  secular  habit,  to  the  peril  of  her  soul  and  the  scandal  of  the  order, 
for  which  cause  she  incurred  sentence  of  excommunication,  the  king 
commanded  the  sheriff  to  arrest  and  deHver  her  up  as  aforesaid  ; 
and  after  for  that  the  said  Alice  made  lawful  appeal  to  the  see  of 
Rome  and  for  protection  of  the  court  of  Canterbury  against  grievances 
alleged  to  be  brought  upon  her  in  this  behalf,  as  appears  by  a  public 
instrument  on  her  behalf  produced  in  chancery,  and  the  business  of 
her  appeal  is  being  prosecuted  with  effect  as  she  avers,  the  king 
ordered  the  sheriff  to  give  notice  to  the  said  master  to  be  in  chancery 
one  month  after  Easter  last,  which  day  was  given  to  the  said  Alice, 
to  shew  cause  wherefore  the  taking  of  her  body  ought  not  to  be 
stayed  pending  the  business  of  the  said  appeal ;  at  which  day  as  well 
the  said  master  appeared  in  person  as  the  said  Alice  by  James  Sothill 
her  attorney,  being  so  warned,  and  the  master  alleged  that  she  being 
a  nun  professed,  and  sister  of  the  house  and  order  aforesaid,  withdrew 
herself  despising  the  same,  and  craved  that  she  should  be  given  up 
to  the  said  house  there  to  abide  according  to  the  rule  of  the  order 
and  the  oath  of  her  profession,  and  the  said  Alice  said  that  she  is  not 
nor  ever  \\  as  a  nun  professed,  offering  to  prove  this  hi  due  manner, 
and  craving  a  stay  of  execution  of  the  said  writ  to  take  her  body, 
and  the  said  master  said  that  she  is  and  long  ago  was  a  nun  professed, 


380  CALENDAR   OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1367j  Membrane  IM — cont. 

craving  proof  thereof,  and  she  hkemse,  AA^herefore  command  is  given 
to  John  bishop  of  Lincoln  the  diocesan  to  call  the  parties  before  him 
and  take  information  touching  the  premises  as  Avell  by  examination 
of  the  said  Alice  and  the  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  said  house  as  by 
inquisitions  of  the  neighbouring  parts  and  otherwise,  and  to  certify 
under  liis  seal  in  chancery  in  or  before  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas 
next  that  which  shall  so  be  found,  which  day  has  been  given  to  the 
parties  in  chancery  to  do  and  receive  what  shall  be  right  in  the 
premises  ;  and  the  said  Alice  has  found  the  said  James  and  William 
Preston,  aaIio  have  mainperned  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  1001.  to  have 
her  body  before  the  bishop  at  a  day  to  be  by  him  fixed  to  stand  to  his 
examination  and  do  what  else  is  required  in  that  behalf,  and  if  she 
be  found  a  nun  professed  in  the  said  house,  to  bring  her  again  before 
the  king  in  chancery  at  the  day  named  to  be  delivered  to  the  said 
master. 

To  the  sheriffs,  mayors,  bailiffs,  ministers  and  other  the  king's 
Ueges  to  whom  etc.  Like  order,  reciting  the  king's  command  to  the 
sheriff  of  Lincoln, 

Et  erat  patens. 

'Oct.  16.  To  the  same.  Like  order,  as  the  said  bishop  made  no  certificate 
Westminster,  touching  the  premises  at  the  day  above  named,  wherefore  a  day  was 
given  the  parties  in  the  quinzaine  of  Martinmas  next,  that  being 
meanwhile  certified  thereof  the  king  may  then  do  what  law  and 
reason  require  ;  and  the  said  Ahce  has  found  the  same  mainpernors 
etc.  to  have  her  body  at  that  day  {as  above). 

These  letters  are  renewed  under  date  1  December,  by  the  main- 
prise of  James  de  Sothill  and  Simon  de  Massyngham,  to  have  the 
body  of  the  said  Ahce  in  chancery  in  the  octaves  of  the  Purification 
next. 

Indenture  made  between  the  king  of  the  one  part  and  Thomas  de 
Gretwell  and  John  de  Kelby  of  the  other  part,  being  a  lease  for  three 
years  from  5  May  last  of  the  subsidy  in  Lincolnshire  and  Roteland 
upon  cloths  for  sale,  granted  to  the  king  by  the  lords  and  commons 
of  the  realm  to  have  release  of  the  forfeiture  of  aln^ige  thereupon 
laid  of  old  time,  rendering  221.  a  year  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by 
even  portions,  taking  for  their  pains  the  third  part  of  cloths  forfeited 
etc.  {as  above,  p.  70).  Dated  Westminster,  12  May  41  Edward  III. 
French.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Memorandum  that  Walter  de  Kelby  and  John  de  Bole  of  Lincoln- 
shne  are  mainpernors  for  the  said  farmers,  to  answer  to  the  king  for 
the  said  farm  in  case  of  their  default,  and  to  do  their  office  in  manner 
aforesaid  and  in  none  other.     French. 

The  like  indentures  are  made  with  the  foUoAA-ing  : 

Thomas  de  GretAvell  and  John  de  Kelby  in  Notinghamshire  and 
Derbyshire  from  16  May  last  for  one  year  Avith  a  thud  part  of 
forfeitures,  rent  40s.  ;  mainpernors,  Walter  de  Kelby  and 
John  de  Bole.  Dated  18  May.  French. 
Edmund  Giffard  in  Oxfordshire  and  Beikshire  from  Michaelmas 
last  for  five  years  AA'ith  a  third  part  of  forfeitures,  rent  lOl. 
Dated  6  December.  French.  No  mainpernors,  because  the 
lessee  is  sufficient. 


41    EDWARD    ITT.  ^81 


13G7*  Membrane  I9d — cont. 

Walter  Wodoland  in  Surrey  and  Sussex  from  Michaelmas  last  for 
thiee  y<^<'ii'^  Mitli  all  foifeitiires,  rent  9Z.  0.s.  Sd.  Dated  3  June. 
Mainpernors,  W'illiani  Pistour  and  Heruy  Colas  of  Gildeford 
taverner   of   Surrey.     French. 

John  de  Mottesfonte  in  the  county  of  Suthampton  from  Michaelmas 
last  for  one  year  with  all  forfeituies,  rent  20/.  Dated 
2  October.  Mainpernors,  Stephen  Carre  of  the  county  of 
Suthampton  and  John  Smcthe  of  London  skinner.     French. 

Henry  Colas  of  Gildeford  in  Kent  from  Michaelmas  last  for  three 
years  with  all  forfeitures,  rent  40  marks.  Dated  2  October. 
Mainpernors,  Bernard  Coke  and  Robert  Patrik  of  Gildeford 
eo.  Surrey.     French. 

Peter  Sterre  of  London  in  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London  and 
in  Middlesex  from  Michaelmas  last  for  one  year  with  a  moiety 
of  forfeitures,  rent  100  marks.     Dated  4  October.     French. 

Membrane  iSd. 

Charter  of  Nicholas  son  and  heir  of  Sir  William  de  la  More,  granting 
M'ith  warranty  to  John  Aubrey  of  London,  William  Newerk  chaplain 
and  Richard  Toky,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  20  marks 
to  him  payable  by  John  de  Mounteny  and  Cicely  liis  wife,  who  hold 
of  him  the  manor  of  Morehalle  co.  Essex  together  with  other  lands 
in  the  same  county  during  the  life  of  the  said  Cicely,  granting  them 
also  the  reversion  of  the  said  manor  and  lands.  Dated  London, 
10  May  41  Edward  III.     French. 

Writing  of  Nicholas  son  and  heir  of  Sir  William  de  la  More,  being 
an  assignment  to  John  Aubrey  of  London,  William  Newerk  chaplain 
and  Richard  Toky  of  John  de  Mounteny  and  Cicely  his  wife,  who 
hold  of  the  said  Nicholas  the  manor  called  Morehalle  in  Essex  by 
lease  made  to  Ralph  Wolsy  sometime  husband  of  the  said  Cicely  and 
to  her  for  their  lives  rendering  to  him  and  his  heirs  20  marks  a  year, 
in  regard  to  the  rent  aforesaid  and  the  reversion  of  the  premises, 
directing  the  said  John  and  Cicely  to  attorn  tenants  to  the  said  John, 
William  and  Richard,  and  acquitting  them  of  the  said  rent  towards 
the  said  Nicholas  and  his  heirs.  Dated  London,  10  May  41  Edward 
III.     French. 

Memoranduvfi  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
WTiting,  14  May. 

Writing  of  John  de  Mounteny,  for  himself  and  Cicely  his  wife, 
being  an  attornment  to  John  Aubrey  of  London,  William  Newerk 
chaplain  and  Richard  Toky  in  regard  to  a  rent  of  20  marks  a  year 
payable  by  the  said  Jolm  and  Cicely  to  Nicholas  son  and  heir  of  Sir 
William  de  la  More,  of  whom  they  hold  the  manor  called  le  Morehalle 
in  Essex  of  his  heritage  by  lease  from  him  during  the  life  of  the  said 
Cicely,  and  the  reversion  of  the  said  manor  which,  with  the  said  rent, 
the  said  Nicholas  has  granted  to  the  said  John,  William  and  Richard. 
Dated  London,  13  May  41  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  14  May. 

Writing  of  John  Aubrey  of  London,  being  a  bond  to  Nicholas  son 
and  heir  of  Sir  William  de  la  More  in  500  marks  payable  in  the  city 
of  London  at  Christmas  next  to  him  or  his  attorney  bearing  this  bond. 
Dated  London,   14  May  41   Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  14  May. 


382 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1367. 


Membrane  ]8d — cont. 


Indenture  reciting  a  grant  made  by  Nicholas  son  and  heir  of  Sir 
WiUiam  de  la  More  to  John  Aubrey  of  London,  William  Newerk 
chaplain  and  Richard  Toky  of  the  reversion  of  the  manor  of  Morehalle 
and  all  other  lands  in  Essex  of  him  held  by  John  de  Mounteny  and 
Cicely  his  wife  for  the  life  of  the  said  Cicely,  and  of  a  yearly  rent  of 
20  marks  thereof  issuing  during  her  life,  and  witnessing  a  grant  of 
the  said  John  Aubrey,  William  and  Richard  that,  whensoever  the 
said  Nicholas  shall  come  from  over  sea,  and  they,  their  heirs  or  assigns 
shall  without  molestation  have  levied  40Z.  of  the  said  rent  or  of  the  said 
manor  and  lands  or  of  both,  or  the  said  Nicholas  shall  have  otherwise 
recompensed  them  of  that  sum  and  of  their  costs  in  case  they  shall  be 
molested,  they,  their  heirs  or  assigns,  will  grant  the  said  reversion  and 
rent  again  to  the  said  Nicholas  and  to  his  heirs  for  ever,  or  will  enfeoff 
them  of  the  said  manor  and  lands  in  case  the  said  Cicely  be  then  dead, 
save  always  that  before  such  grant  or  feoffment  the  said  Nicholas  shall 
find  security,  as  the  said  John  Aubrey  or  his  counsel  shall  appoint, 
that  if  afterward  any  alienation  of  the  premises  or  parcel  thereof  be 
to  be  made,  the  same  shall  be  made  to  the  said  John  Aubrey,  paying 
so  much  as  another  would  pay  without  fraud  or  covin  ;  witnessing 
also  the  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  bond  of  John  Aubrey,  upon 
condition  that  the  said  John  Aubrey,  William  and  Richard,  their  heirs 
and  assigns,  shall  perform  all  these  covenants  in  form  aforesaid. 
Dated  London,  15  May  41  Edward  III.     French. 

3Iemorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,   15  May. 

Writing  of  Isolda  late  the  wife  of  Donald  Lesturmyn  knight  in  her 
widowhood,  being  a  release  to  the  king  of  all  action  for  dower  or 
otherwise  in  the  manor  of  Thunderlee  co.  Essex-  which  was  of  her  said 
husband,  and  was  by  him  granted  to  the  king  by  charter.  Witnesses  : 
William  de  Wykeham  archdeacon  of  Lincoln,  Thomas  de  Murreaux 
knight,  Ralph  de  Shelton  knight,  Helmyngus  Leget.  Dated  London, 
11  May  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  17  May. 

Writing  of  William  Vremysse,  executor  of  LawTcnce  Wymondham, 
granting  that  Nicholas  Botiller  of  Yorkshire,  lately  committed  to 
the  king's  prison  of  Neugate  at  the  suit  of  the  said  Lawrence  for 
201.  6s.  8d.  lately  recovered  against  him  in  the  king's  court  by  the 
said  La\ATence  in  a  plea  of  debt  before  John  de  Sancto  Albano  late 
one  of  the  sheriffs  of  London,  shall  be  set  free  and  no  longer  detained 
for  that  reason  or  any  other  at  the  suit  of  the  said  LawTence,  as  he 
has  fully  contented  the  said  executor  of  the  sum  named.  Dated 
London,  Tuesday  before  St.  Dunstan  41   Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  18  May. 

May  12.         William  son  of  William  Haulay  to  WilHam  de  Wykeham  archdeacon 
Westminster,  of  Lincoln.     Recognisance  for  400L,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  pay- 
ment, of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Lincolnshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  William  now  bishop 
of  Winchester. 

April  30.        To  J.  bishop  of  Ely.     Request  to  grant  Wilham  Kynesdeley  scholar, 

Sheen.        son  of  Hugh  Forester,  such  yearly  pension  as  may  become  the  giver 

and  should  bind  the  receiver  to  him,  making  the  said  William  under 

his  seal  letters  patent  concerning  the  same,  and  wTiting  again  by  the 


41    EDWARD    III. 


383 


1307. 


Membrane  ISd — cont. 


boaror  what  he  will  do  at  this  request ;  as  the  said  bishop  is  by  reason 
of  his  now  creation  bound  in  such  a  pension  to  one  of  the  kinn;'s  clerks, 
to  be  by  the  king  nominated,  until  he  shall  make  him  jiiovision  of  a 
competent  benefice,  and  the  king  has  nominated  the  said  William, 
whose  advancement  he  has  at  heart.  By  p.s.  [27331.] 

Membrane  lid. 

May  12.         To  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland.     Order  to  cause  a  regard  to  be  made 
Westminster,  in  the  forest  of  Ingelwode  according  to  the  form  of  the  capitula  fol- 
lowing, so  that  the  same  be  made  before  Michaelmas  next. 

Cwpitula. 

June  12.         The  like  to  the  sheriff  of  York,  to  cause  a  regard  to  be  made  in  the 
Westminster,  forest  of  Galtres  before  Christmas  next. 

Writing  of  John  Mallyngges  of  Walton  by  Sandale  Magna  co.  York, 
giving  with  warranty  to  John  de  Querneby  clerk,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
all  his  lands  in  the  toA\n  and  territory  of  Walton  and  Chevet,  with 
rents,  services  of  free  tenants,  their  wards,  reliefs,  escheats,  homages 
and  marriages,  moors,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  fish  ponds,  paths, 
ways  etc.  Witnesses  :  Sir  William  Fynchedene,  John  Burgh  knights, 
Hugh  Brer  lay,  Adam  Moselay,  William  Fery  of  Wakfeld,  William 
Castelford,  Thomas  Manyngham,  Adam  Heyrode  of  Walton,  John 
Kyng,  Richard  Blackar.     Dated  Walton,  12  May  41  Edward  III. 

W^riting  of  John  Mallyngges  of  Walton  by  Sandale  Magna  co.  York, 
giving  to  John  de  Querneby  clerk  all  his  goods  and  chattels  moveable 
and  immovable  wheresoever  found,  granting  that  he  may  bequeath  or 
assign  them  to  whom  he  will  without  challenge  of  the  grantor  or  of  his 
executors.     Witnesses  and  date  {as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
wTiting,  24  May. 


June  1. 

Westminster. 


Writing  of  Edmund  Snellyng,  son  and  heir  of  Margery  who  was  wife 
of  Jolm  Hubcrd  of  Herlawe,  giving  with  warranty  to  John  de  Aungre, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  lOZ.  issuing  from  lands  in 
Buddele  and  Wandelesworth  co.  Surrey,  with  power  to  distrain  for 
arrears,  \\  hich  rent  arising  of  all  the  lands  of  Richard  Hardell  in  Buddele 
in  the  town  of  Lamheth  and  Wandelesworth  with  like  power  to  distrain 
was  by  the  said  Richard  given  to  the  said  John  Huberd  and  Margery, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  to  be  taken  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter 
by  even  portions,  and  descended  to  the  said  Edmund  by 
inheritance  after  his  said  mother's  death.  Witnesses  :  Nicholas 
Carrwe,  Henry  atte  Strete,  John  Tom  worth,  William  de  Leyham, 
Walter  Norman,  Nicholas  Strode,  John  Hadenam.  Dated  Lamheth, 
Monday  after  the  Invention  of  Holy  Cross  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   30  May  this  year. 

Robert  Neville  of  Horneby  knight  to  Thomas  Cooke  of  Wellynges 
and  John  Of  ham.  Recognisance  for  121.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  ui  Kent. 


384 


CALENDAR   OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1367.  Membrane  lid — cont. 

June  L  Thomas  Grey  of  Cavendissh  knight  to  WiUiam  de  Castelacre  and 

WoPtminster.  Robert  de  Plesyngton.     Recognisance  for  111.  IQs.,  to  be  levied  etc. 
in  Cambridgeshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


Membrane  iQd. 

Writing  of  John  Nanscuvel  of  Cornwall,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Master 
John  Goderich,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  lands  in  the  towns  of 
Poukesle,  Stonystratteford,  Couesgrave,  Forthho,  Estpirye  and 
Passenham  co.  Norhampton,  and  of  all  those  which  they  the  said  John 
and  John  had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  William  de  Leycestre  citizen 
and  '  fourbour  '  of  London  and  Agnes  his  wife  in  Norhamptonshire  and 
Bukinghamshire.  Witnesses  :  Edmund  Fitz  Johan,  Robert  Martel, 
Simon  Lufienham,  Robert  de  Melton  clerk,  Hugh  de  Arderne  clerk. 
Dated  Westminster,  Sunday  after  St.  Gregory  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  May. 

May  14.         William  son  of  William  de  Radclyf  to  the  abbey  and  convent  of 
Westminster.  Whalleye.     Recognisance  for  10  marks  payable  by  instalments  ;    to 
be    levied,    in    default    of    payment,    of    his    lands    and    chattels   in 
Lancashire. 

Writing  of  Jakes  des  Essarz,  a  hostage  of  France  and  burgess  of 
Roay,  being  an  acknowledgment  before  the  chancellor  of  England 
that  he  is  bound  to  Thomas  atte  Barnet  citizen  of  London  in  lOl.  6s.  Sd. 
payable  5  marks  on  the  last  day  of  May  next,  5  marks  on  the  last  day 
of  June,  and  5  marks  6s.  Sd.  on  the  last  day  of  August,  binding  for 
payment  thereof  all  his  goods  moveable  and  immovable  as  well  over 
sea  as  on  this  side,  willing  that  his  bond  made  by  notarial  instrument 
shall  be  in  force  as  well  over  sea  as  on  this  side,  and  if  any  man  come 
hither  to  be  hostage  in  his  stead,  his  letter  of  passage  shall  remain 
in  the  said  chancellor's  hand  until  payment  be  made.  Dated 
London,  12  May  1367.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  London, 
13  May. 

Charter  of  John  de  Kirkeby,  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Kirkeby  knight, 
granting  A^ith  warranty  to  William  Moraunt  and  Thomas  son  of 
William  de  Lodelowe,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  the  reversion  of  all 
lands  now  held  for  life  by  Alice  de  Kirkeby  his  mother  in  the  towns 
of  Horton,  Frennyngham,  Faukham,  Sutton  atte  Hone  and  Derteford 
CO.  Kent  with  reversion  to  the  said  John  the  son,  except  the  third  part 
of  the  manor  of  Horton  which  she  holds  in  dower.  Dated  Fotescreie 
CO.  Kent,  Friday  after  St.  Petronilla  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at   Westminster,   2  June. 

June  3.  Master  Thomas  Munt'.  of  Wykham  clerk  to  Richard  de  Chestrefeld 

Westminster,  clerk.     Recognisance  for  200Z.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Notynghamshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

May  28.         To  William  de  Wichyngham,  Robert  de  Causton,  John  de  Berneye 

Westminster,  and    Edmund    Gourneye.       Order    to    stay    altogether    the     further 

execution  of  the  king's  writ  appointing  them,  three  and  two  of  them, 


41    EDWARD    ITI.  38r) 


1307.  Membrane  IGd — cont. 

justices  to  hoar  and  detcrininc  certain  alle<i;e(l  trespasses  by  Peter 
Fyn  of  Hel<i;eye  and  lieatrice  his  wife,  WiUiam  Orede  of  Hcl^eye,  Roger 
Botwryghte  of  St)theroye  and  W'iUiam  Brightlede  of  Denvcre  com- 
mitted against  William  de  Barshale  ;  as  in  the  statute  published  at 
Norhampton  in  the  2nd  year  of  the  reign  it  is  (contained  (among  other 
things)  that  wiits  of  oyer  and  terminer  shall  not  be  granted  save  for 
grievous  and  horrible  trespass  according  to  the  form  of  another  statute 
thereupon  published  in  the  time  of  King  Edward  I,  wherein  it  is 
contained  that  such  writ  shall  not  be  granted  save  for  a  grievous 
trespass  \\\\on  need  be  to  apply  a  speedy  remedy  ;  and  the  king  has 
revoked  his  said  writ  for  that  it  is  now  witnessed  before  the  council 
by  credible  persons  that  the  said  trespasses  are  not  grievous  or 
horrible  whereby  such  writ  ought  to  be  granted  according  to  the 
form  of  the  said  statutes.  By  C. 

June  23.         Andrew   de   Burnham   vicar   of  Sonnyng   and    Roger    Curtays  of 

Westniinstor.  Dounton  and  Agnes  his  wife  to  William  de  Gunthorp,  Richard  de 

Ravenser  clerks  and  William  Strcte.     Recognisance  for  1,000  marks, 

to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in 

Wyltes. 

Indenture  made  at  Westminster  25  June  41  Edward  III,  between 
Richard  de  Heyle  of  Chelchehethe  of  the  one  part  and  Nicholas  abbot 
of  Westminster  and  the  convent  of  the  other  part,  being  a  lease  A\dth 
warranty  to  the  said  abbot  and  convent  and  to  their  successors  during 
the  life  of  the  said  Richard  of  the  manor  of  Chelchehethe  with  its 
appurtenances  as  in  messuages,  gardens,  dovecots,  arable  lands, 
meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  waters,  fisheries,  rents,  services,  homages, 
reliefs,  wards,  marriages,  courts,  suits  of  court,  works  of  tenants  and 
all  other  profits  and  advantages  whatsoever  thereto  belonging,  lands 
and  tenements  in  Westebourne  and  Kyngesholt  excepted,  rendering 
20/.  a  year  at  the  four  usual  terms  by  even  portions,  discharging  him 
of  U.  of  yearly  rent  thereof  due  from  him  to  the  said  abbot  and 
convent,  and  finding  him  every  day  tAAO  white  convent  loaves,  two 
gallons  of  convent  ale,  to  wit  such  as  is  served  to  the  convent  in  the 
refectory,  to  be  taken  by  the  hands  of  the  cellarer  of  Westminster  for 
the  time  being,  and  one  gown  every  year  of  the  suit  of  their  esquires, 
and  finding  moreover  for  his  abode  a  competent  dwelling  house  within 
the  precinct  of  the  abbey  of  Westminster,  to  ^vit  that  wherein  John 
de  Molyns  knight  used  to  dwell,  which  shall  first  be  competently 
repaired  by  the  said  abbot  and  convent  and  maintained  by  the  said 
Richard  during  his  life  at  his  own  cost,  other  men's  fire  and  tempest 
excepted  ;  the  abbot  and  convent  grant  that  the  said  Richard  and 
his  executors  shall  without  let  have  the  free  disposal  of  all  his  goods 
within  the  said  dwelling  house  during  one  half  year  after  his  decease  ; 
it  shall  not  be  lawful  for  him  during  his  life  ^\ithout  special  licence 
of  the  abbot  and  convent  to  let,  pledge  or  demise  the  said  dwelling 
house  or  any  part  thereof,  nor  to  receive  therein  for  longer  than  one 
day  and  one  night  any  fleeing  to  the  church  of  W^estminster,  and  if 
he  shall  so  do  it  shall  be  la\\ful  for  the  abbot  and  convent  to  enter 
again  and  hold  the  said  dwelling  house,  disposing  thereof  at  their 
will  this  indenture  notwithstanding  ;  it  shall  not  be  lawful  for  the 
said  abbot  and  convent  during  the  life  of  the  said  Richard  to  let  the 
said  manor  to  farm  to  any  man  save  the  said  Richard  if  he  will  take 

E25 


386 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE   ROLLS 


1367. 


Membrane  \Qd — cont. 


it,  and  if  they  shall  so  do  it  shall  be  lawful  for  him  to  enter  again  and 
hold  the  same,  disposing  thereof  as  he  shall  see  fit  this  indenture  not- 
withstanding ;  the  abbot  and  convent  shall  at  their  own  cost  repair 
and  maintain  all  houses  in  the  said  manor,  and  shall  leave  them  in 
as  good  state  as  they  took  the  same,  tempest  and  Other  men's  fire 
excepted  ;  if  they  shall  make  default  in  payment  of  the  said  rent  in 
part  or  in  whole  during  one  month,  or  in  payment  of  the  bread,  ale 
and  gown  aforesaid,  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  said  Richard  by  himself 
or  others  to  enter  the  said  manor  and  distrain  until  contented  of  all 
arrears  with  his  damages  and  costs,  and  if  no  sufficient  distress  may 
be  found  therein,  to  enter  again  and  hold  the  manor,  disposing  thereof 
as  he  shall  see  fit  this  indenture  notwithstanding. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  Richard  de  Heile,  26  June. 


Membrane  \bd. 

Charter  of  Thomas  son  of  Thomas  de  Grey  knight  {militis),  giving 
with  warranty  to  John  Toft,  Edmund  Warner  and  John  de  Belstede, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  his  whole  manor  of  Wylynghale  Spayne  called 
Spayneshalle  with  villeins,  villenages  and  all  that  goes  with  them, 
and  all  rights  and  appurtenances  thereof.  Witnesses  :  Thomas 
Rocheford,  Wilham  Bedel,  John  Wydenhey,  Richard  Reynold, 
Wilham  Sprigge.  Dated  Wylynghale,  Tuesday  in  Whitsun  week 
41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  July. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Grey  of  Cavendyssh  knight  and  Thomas  his 
son,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  Toft  clerk,  Edmund 
Warner  and  John  de  Belstede,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor 
of  Wylynghale  Spayne  called  Spayneshalle.  Dated  London,  Sunday 
after  St.  Swithun  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  July. 

July  7.  John  Berner  of  the  isle  of  Axiholme  co.  Lincoln  to    Thomas  de 

Westminster.  Ingelby  knight  and  John  de  Butterwyk.  Recognisance  for  60L, 
to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Lincolnshire. 

Cancelled  on  'payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Thomas. 


July  13. 

Elthain. 


To  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Evesham.  Order  and  request  to  grant 
Walter  Melyn  the  king's  clerk  such  a  yearly  pension  of  their  house  as 
may  befit  the  givers  and  should  bind  the  receiver  to  them,  making 
him  letters  patent  under  the  chapter  seal  touching  the  same,  and 
writing  again  by  the  bearer  what  they  will  do  at  this  request ;  as  the 
said  abbot  by  reason  of  his  new  creation  is  bound  in  such  a  pension  to 
one  of  the  king's  clerks,  to  be  by  the  king  nominated,  until  provision 
be  made  him  by  the  abbot  of  a  competent  benefice,  and  the  king  has 
nominated  the  said  Walter  whose  advancement  he  has  at  heart. 

By  p.s.  [27417.] 

Charter  of  Ralph  Restwold,  giving  with  warranty  to  Richard  de 
Craunfeld,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the  manor  of  Nethercaldecote  by 
Bikeleswade  co.  Bedford  which  he  the  said  Ralph  had  of  the  gift  and 
feofi'ment  of  Ralph  son  and  heir  of  Walter  Carmynou  knight,  with 
all   lands,  homages,   rents   and    services  of    free  men   and   neifs   and 


41    KDWAIII)    III.  387 


l'i()7.  Membrane  I5d — cont. 

all  that  goes  with  thom,  inoadows,  pastmoH,  suits  etc.  \A''itneafics  : 
Jolin  Moitcyn  knight,  J'ctor  do  Salford,  Alo.xandor  Bozon,  Hugh 
Picard,  Nicholas  \Vostuidale,  William  ^Vodh^^ll,  William  lo  Fronsshc. 
Dated  Caldocotc  aforesaid,  Thursday  after  St.  Peter  and  St.  Paul 
41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  London, 
4  July. 

Writing  of  William  atte  Seler  and  Joan  his  wife,  being  a  quitclaim 
to  John  atte  Selcr  and  Alice  his  wife,  their  lieirs  and  assigns,  of  a  yearly 
rent  of  19  marks  to  be  taken  at  the  four  principal  terms  by  even 
portions  of  the  whole  tenement,  brewhouse,  shops  adjoining  and 
houses  thereupon  built  sometime  of  Thomas  de  Iselham  and  now 
held  by  the  said  John  and  Alice  in  Fletestrete  in  the  suburb  of  London 
in  the  parish  of  St.  Bride,  between  a  tenement  of  Thomas  Chauntecler 
on  the  west,  a  tenement  pertaining  to  the  church  of  St.  Bride  on  the 
east,  Fletestrete  on  the  south,  and  a  garden  sometime  of  the  earl  of 
Lincoln  on  the  north,  which  rent  the  said  John  and  Alice  by  charter, 
made  at  London  and  read  and  enrolled  in  the  court  of  the  busting 
there  holden  on  Monday  before  St.  Edmund  the  King  40  Edward  III, 
gave  to  the  said  William  and  Joan,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  during 
the  life  of  the  said  John  and  Alice.  Witnesses  :  Stephen  Maynard, 
Roger  Legat,  William  Bathe,  Simon  atte  Nax,  Thomas  Ermyn. 
Dated    6   July    41    Edward    III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  W^estminster,   10  July. 

July  10.         Jordan  de  Hulme  parson  of  Sefton  in  the  diocese  of  Coventre  and 
Westminster.  Lichfeld  to  Thomas  de  Thelwall  clerk.     Recognisance  for  20^.,  to  be 
levied,    in    default    of    payment,    of    his    lands    and    chattels    and 
ecclesiastical  goods  in  Lancashire. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Jordan 
pay  lOl.  at  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

July  12.         George  de  Felbrigge  and  Edmund  Kempe  of  Saxthorpe  to  Queen 
Westminster.  Philippa.     Recognisance  for  1001.,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  their  lands  and 
chattels  in  Norffolk. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  Richard  Raveneser  late  the 
said  queen's  treasurer. 

July  14.         Hugh  de  Bentelay  of  Donecastre  to  Elhs  de  Sutton  clerk.     Recog- 
Westminster.  nisance  for  201.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Yorkshire. 

Writing  of  Constantine  del  Dam,  giving  ^ith  warranty  to  Margaret 
daughter  of  Nicholas  de  Colonia  for  her  life  a  yearly  rent  of  40s., 
meat  and  raiment  fit  for  lier  estate,  to  be  taken  of  all  his  lands  and 
tenements  in  the  city  of  York  sometime  of  the  said  Nicholas,  the  said 
rent  at  Martinmas  and  Whitsuntide  by  even  portions,  the  said  meat 
and  raiment  daily,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears.  Dated 
London,  13  July  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  London,  13  July. 

July  15.         William   Terry   called   Pott  ere   to   Queen   Philippa.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  200/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in   Suffolk. 


388 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1367. 


Membrane  IM — cord. 


Writing  of  Nicholas  son  of  Sir  James  Daudeleye  of  Heleghe  and 
Elizabeth  his  wife,  being  an  acquittance  to  Sir  James  Daudeleye  of 
Heleghe  for  1,000  marks  in  gold  this  day  received  in  part  payment 
of  3,600  marks  to  them  adjudged  before  the  king's  council.  Dated 
London,  15  July  41  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Nicholas  at  London, 
15  July,  for  himself  and  his  said  wife. 

Membrane  IM. 

Charter  of  Simon  Wynter  citizen  and  goldsmith  of  London,  Joan 
his  wife  and  Agnes  sister  of  the  said  Joan,  giving  with  warranty  to 
Thomas  Blount,  son  sometime  of  Sir  Hugh  Blount  knight,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  a  messuage,  21  acres  of  arable  land  and  2  acres  of  meadow 
in  Gynghejoyberdlaundre  in  the  parish  of  Botulphispyrie  co.  Essex 
sometime  of  John  Colvyle  and  Perina  his  wife.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Thomas 
Tyrell,  Sir  Humphrey  de  Waldon  knights,  Robert  Marschall,  Nicholas 
de  Baryngton,  Roger  Colvyle,  Benedict  Othis,  John  Baryngton.  Dated 
Gynghejoyberdlaundre,  5  June  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Westminster,  30  June. 

June  30.         Robert  de    Bateley  to    Roger  de  Barnburgh  and  EUis  de  Sutton 
Westminster,  clerks.     Recognisance  for  10  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  pay- 
ment, of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Norffolk. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

June  30.         William  son  of  William  Hauley  to  David  de  Wollore  clerk  and 
Westminster.  Thomas  de  Neuby  clerk.     Recognisance  for  201.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in 
Lincolnshire. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  William 
pay  101.  at  London  at  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next. 
Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  David. 

July  1.  Nicholas  de  Ultyngge  to  Richard  de  Walton  parson  of  Wetherisfeld. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for"^74L   16.s.,   to  be  levied  etc.  in  Essex. 

Writing  of  Nicholas  de  Ultynge,  being  a  quitclaim  with  Avarranty 
to  Sir  Richard  de  Walton  parson  of  Wetherisfeld,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  all  the  lands  of  Stokhalle  and  Brokhous  in  the  parishes 
of  Ultynge,  Langeford,  Wytham,  Wykham  and  Hatfeld  Peverell  and 
their  appurtenances  without  exception,  and  of  3J  acres  of  meadow  in 
Ultyngemedewe  with  two  pieces  of  ground.  Witnesses  :  Thomas 
de  Benyngton,  William  Heyward,  Thomas  Chapman  of  Maldon. 
Dated  28  June  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  1  July. 

July  1.  Thomas  de  Pappele,  William  de  Pappele  and  William  Karlell  to 

Westminster.  Thomas  de  Thelwall  clerk,  Robert  Clement  clerk  and  Andrew  Broun. 
Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  18  marks  lOs.,  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Norhamptonshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  Thomas  de  Thelwall. 

July  1.  Gerard  lord  of  Boberch  to  William  Sterre  citizen  and  vintner  of 

Westminster.  London.     Recognisance  for  21   marks,   to  be  levied  etc.   as  well  in 
England  as  in  the  king's  dominion  over  sea. 


41    EDWARD    III.  389 


1807-  Membrane  14rf — cont. 

Writing  of  Thomas  ]\()b(M(lrs  cha))lain,  homg  a  quiU^laiin  with 
warranty  to  Sir  John  dc  hv  Hale  knight,  liis  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all 
lands,  rents,  services,  meadows  etc.  in  Tarente  Vilers,  Tarentc 
Russhton  and  Tarentc  Preston  co.  Dorset.  Dated  Tarente  Russhton, 
Tuesday  before  St.  Dunstan  41  Edward  III.  Witnesses  :  Thomas 
de  Brudeport,  Adam  atte  Moure,  John  Auntioche,  Gerard  Mosket, 
William  Pajii,  Richard  Scammel. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  July. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Roberdes  chaplain,  being  a  quitclaim  to  John 
Fremlyngham,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  lands,  rents,  services, 
meadows,  reversions  etc.  in  Penj^ton,  Estebbeford,  Eordyngbrigge 
and  Hardebrigge  co.  Suthampton.  Dated  Tarente  Russhton  co. 
Dorset,  Tuesday  before  St.  Dunstan  41  Edward  III.  Witnesses  : 
Thomas  de  Bredeport,  Adam  atte  More,  John  Anteoche,  Gerard  Musket, 
William  Payn. 

3Iemorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  July. 

Charter  of  John  de  Newenham  clerk  and  Richard  de  Leycestre, 
having  obtained  licence  of  the  king  and  the  earl  of  Warrewych  of  whom 
the  same  is  held,  granting  in  frank  almoin  to  the  abbot  and  convent 
of  Lavenden  and  to  their  successors  one  acre  of  land  in  Eston 
Mauduyt  co.  Norhampton  and  the  advowson  of  the  church.  Witnesses  : 
Sh  Thomas  de  Reygnis  knight,  William  Wolf,  John  de  Norwych,  Henry 
Terri,  Robert  Wolf  of  Eston.  Dated  Eston  Mauduyt,  the  feast  of  St. 
Dunstan  41  Edward  III. 

MemoranduTH  of  acknowledgment,  2  July. 

July  3.  Nicholas   Thameworth   knight    to   Queen    Philippa.     Recognisance 

Wostrainstor.  for  120Z.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Wyltes. 

Membrane  Vid. 

July  15.         John  Nelyng  of  Boxford  to  Robert  de  Muskham  clerk.     Recog- 
Wostminster.  nisance  for  lOOL,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Essex. 

June  12.  To  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Benet  Hulme.  Request,  if  no 
Canterbury,  recompense  or  satisfaction  is  made  to  Robert  de  Caldewell  the  king's 
clerk  concerning  a  pension  by  them  lately  granted  him  at  the  king's 
nomination,  to  take  again  of  the  said  Robert  the  letters  patent  under 
the  common  seal  of  their  house  to  him  made  concei'ning  the  same, 
and  grant  the  same  to  John  Miles  of  Clisseby  the  king's  clerk  until  they 
shall  make  him  provision  of  a  suitable  benefice,  making  the  said 
Jolm  other  like  letters,  and  writing  again  by  the  bearer  wiiat  they  will 
do  ;  as  the  said  Robert  is  ready,  as  the  king  has  learned,  to  give  up 
the  letters  concerning  the  said  pension,  wherein  the  said  abbot  and 
convent  by  reason  of  the  abbot's  new^  creation  were  bound  to  one  of 
the  king's  clerks  at  the  king's  nomination,' to  the  intent  that  the  said 
John  may  have  that  pension  ;  and  the  king  of  his  favour  approves 
the  restitution  thereof.  By  p.s.  [27373.] 

June  26.         To  Ralph  Spigurnell  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of  the 

Westminster.  Cinque   Ports,   or  to  his  lieutenant.     Order  to  make  inquisition  by 

.    true  men  of  the  Uberty  of  the  said  ports  to  whose  hands  came,  and 


390  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1367.  Membrane  13d — cont. 

in  whose  hands  now  are  33  stone  of  hemp  which  were  by  Richard  de 
Scargill  and  WilUam  de  Hampton  late  baihff  of  the  to\ATi  of  Hethe 
dehvered  to  certain  men  of  that  town  to  make  nets  for  the  king's  use, 
and  in  what  manner,  sending  the  inquisition  so  taken  under  their 
seals  to  the  king  in  chancery  without  delay,  and  this  writ.  By  C. 

June  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.  Order,  at  his  peril,  if  assured  that  John 
Westminster.  Percy  of  Frismershe,  William  Esthus  chaplain,  Nicholas  Smyth  of 
Frismershe,  William  Stedeman  Johanesservant  Percy,  Stephen  Day 
of  Patryngton,  Peter  Day  of  the  same,  Peter  Frowe  of  the  same  and 
William  Gudbarn  of  the  same  were  indicted  concerning  the  death  of 
William  Webster  of  Patryngton  and  Robert  Thorgot  of  Patryngton, 
slain  at  Patryngton,  and  were  fugitives  or  withdrew  themselves  for 
that  cause,  to  take  into  the  king's  hand  all  the  lands,  goods  and 
chattels  which  they  had  on  the  day  those  felonies  were  committed 
within  liberties  and  without  in  whose  hands  soever  they  shall  be, 
cause  their  lands  to  be  extended  and  their  goods  appraised  and  safe 
kept  to  the  king's  use  without  deduction,  so  that  the  sheriff  may 
answer  for  the  same  or  the  value  thereof  at  the  king's  command,  and 
if  any  be  eloigned  so  that  they  may  not  be  found  and  seized,  to  make 
inquisition  into  whose  hands  they  came  and  in  whose  hands  they  are, 
or  to  cause  the  value  thereof  to  be  seized  of  the  goods  and  chattels  of 
those  who  are  bound  to  answer  for  them,  and  answer  to  be  made  to 
the  king  for  the  same,  certifying  in  chancery  when  he  shall  have 
executed  this  command  the  extent  of  their  lands,  the  value  of  their 
goods,  and  all  his  own  action  in  the  matter  ;  as  the  king  is  informed 
that  the  said  John  Percy  and  others,  after  committing  the  said 
felonies,  forthwith  fled  from  justice  and  are  wandering  in  divers 
counties,  wherefore  certain  of  the  king's  ministers  caused  their  goods 
and  chattels  to  be  seized  into  his  hand  and  appraised  to  the  king's 
use  at  20s.  or  little  more,  although  the  value  of  them  is  above  100/., 
keeping  the  residue  to  their  o^vn  use  ;  and  the  king  would  not  be 
so  defrauded.  By  K. 

June  24.  To  the  sheriff  of  Northumberland.  Order  to  stay  altogether  the 
Westminster,  execution  of  the  king's  writ  to  him  addressed,  directing  him  to  compel 
Anne  prioress  of  St.  Bartholomew  Newcastle  upon  Tyne  and  Idonea 
de  Eccles  a  nun  and  sister  of  the  said  priory  to  find  security  that 
they  would  not  without  the  king's  special  licence  repair  to  foreign 
parts  nor  send  thither  to  prosecute  any  suit  to  the  prejudice  of  the 
crown  or  of  the  people  A^hich  ought  to  be  determined  within  the 
realm,  not  troubling  the  said  prioress  or  Idonea  in  aught ;  as  the 
king  lately  learning  that  they  purposed  to  repair  to  foreign  parts  to 
the  end  aforesaid,  ordered  the  sheriff'  to  compel  them  to  find  security 
*  as  before  mentioned,  certifying  in  chancery  the  security  so  taken  ;  but 

Robert  Lamton  of  Northumberland,  Ralph  Flete,  John  Walssh  and 
John  West  of  Lincolnshire,  appearing  personally  in  chancery,  have 
mainperned  under  a  pain  of  201.  that  the  said  prioress  and  Idonea 
shall  not  so  do. 

July  5.  To  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Pascoe  vicar 

Westminster,  of  St.  Crewemia,  to  stay  altogether  the  publication  of  the  exigents 

against   him   toward  his   outlawry  ;      as  his  petition  she\\'s   that   by 

procurement  of  certain  his  enemies  he  is  indicted  before  Richard 


41    KOWARD  III. 


391 


13()7. 


Membrane  IM — cont. 


Sergeaux  and  his  fellows,  guardians  of  the  peace  and  justices  of  oyer 
and  terminer  in  Cornwall,  for  certain  felonies  there  eomniitted,  and 
they  have  made  processes  before  them  thereupon  to  tlie  exigents, 
and  have  ordered  tlie  sheriif  on  the  king's  behalf  to  put  the  said  Pascoc 
in  exigents  until  outlawed  if  he  shall  not  appear,  and  if  he  shall  appear 
to  take  and  keep  him  in  safe  custody  in  prison  so  as  to  have  him 
before  them  at  a  set  day  yet  to  come,  as  by  their  writ  may  appear, 
although  no  power  is  given  to  the  said  justices  to  make  any  processes 
concerning  the  exigents  upon  indictments  for  felonies  before  them 
made. 

July  10.  To  Thomas  de  Shardelowe.  Order  to  send  under  seal  to  the  king; 
Westaiinstor.  with  this  writ,  the  indictment  concerning  certain  trespasses  com- 
mitted at  Foulmere  against  John  Pepir  of  Lynton  and  Adam 
Chaundeler  of  Lynton  for  ^^■hich  Henry  parson  of  Mose,  John  Freman, 
Thomas  Freman,  Richard  Michel,  John  Kyng,  John  Auncel  the  elder, 
John  Lutere,  John  Aldirton,  Henry  Mervyn,  John  Waryn,  John 
Heyne,  Thomas  Lawe,  John  Stote,  Hugh  Spark,  Richard  Brond, 
Geoffrey  Gery,  William  Dende,  John  Janekyn  the  younger,  Walter 
Webbe,  Richard  Chene,  John  Standelf,  William  Smyth,  John  Wold, 
John  Trippelowe,  John  Jekes,  John  Weston,  John  Cook,  John  Auncell 
the  younger,  John  Casebolt,  John  Braisiere,  John  Wale,  John  Beef, 
John  Kene,  John  Miriweder,  Alice  Miriweder,  Bartholomew  Power, 
Roger  Lance,  John  Taillour,  John  Dawe,  William  Dawe,  John 
Alfrede  and  Thomas  Johanesservant  Alfrede  are  indicted  before 
the  said  Thomas  de  Shardelowe  and  his  fellows,  guardians  of  the 
peace  and  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  Cambridgeshire,  with  all 
things  touching  the  matter,  so  that  the  king  shall  have  them  in  the 
octaves  of  Michaelmas  wherever  he  shall  be  in  England,  to  cause  what 
further  ought  to  be  done  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  the 
realm  to  be  done  thereupon,  causing  any  proceedings  before  the  said 
guardians  altogether  to  cease  ;  as  by  certificate  of  John  Knyvet  the 
chief  justice,  sent  into  chancery  at  his  command,  the  king  has  learned 
that  the  said  John  Pepir  and  Adam  are  by  divers  writs  before  the  king 
impleading  the  said  parson,  John  Freman  and  others  for  certain 
trespasses   against  them  committed  at  Foulmere. 

July  3.  To  the  justices  of   the    Bench   of- Ireland.     Order    to    stay   until 

Eltham.  further  order  the  further  holding  of  a  plea  concerning  the  offices  of 
the  serjeanty  of  all  Meath  and  the  serjeanty  of  the  county  of  Dublin 
and  Uriel  ;  as  lately  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  to  William 
Warde  for  life  the  said  offices,  the  former  of  which  was  held  by  John 
Bacoun,  the  latter  by  Robert  de  Crus,  and  both  are  in  the  king's 
hand  by  theh  forfeiture  ;  and  now  the  king  has  learned  that  divers 
men,  scheming  to  defraud  as  well  the  king  of  his  right  as  the  said 
Walter  of  the  possession  of  those  bailiA\'icks,  are  impleading  the  said 
Walter  concerning  the  same  before  the  said  justices,  and  hurt  and 
prejudice  to  the  king  may  easily  arise  if  they  were  to  proceed  in  that 
plea.  By  K. 

The  like  to  Richard  White  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hold 
pleas  that  follow  the  justiciary  of  Ireland. 

Nov.   11.         To  the  prior  of  Holy  Trinity  Norwich.     Request  to  take  again  the 

Westminster,  letters  patent  under  the  common  seal  of  their  house  made  by  the  said 

prior  and  convent  to  John  de  Swanton  the  king's  serjeant  concerning 


392  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1367.  Membrane  IM — cont. 

such  maintenance  as  John  de  Stretford  deceased  had  there  at  the 
king's  request,  the  said  John  de  Swanton  releasing  all  right  and  claim 
therein,  and  to  make  and  deliver  like  letters  to  William  Warner  of 
Gymyngham  for  liis  life,  writing  again  by  the  bearer  what  they  will 
do  at  this  request,  and  the  king  will  be  bound  to  them  for  so  doing  ; 
as  the  said  John  de  Swanton,  to  whom  the  king  lately  granted  such 
maintenance  for  life,  is  ready  to  give  up  the  said  letters  to  him  made, 
releasing  his  said  right,  so  that  the  said  prior  will  grant  his  estate  therein 
to  the  said  William,  and  has  prayed  the  king  to  send  the  said  William 
to  that  house,  and  the  king  has  granted  his  prayer.       By  p.s.  [27485.] 

Membrane  Ud* 

July  4.  To  William  de  Wychyngham,  Edmund  de  Chelreye,  Robert  Bel- 

Westiniustor.  knap  and  Michael  Skyllyng.  Order  to  stay  altogether  the  further 
execution  of  the  king's  writ  appointing  them,  three  and  two  of  them, 
justices  to  hear  and  determine  an  alleged  trespass  committed  by 
Thomas  de  la  Bere  and  Jolm.  Warde  Thomasservant  de  la  Bere  against 
Edmund  Barnabe  ;  as  in  the  statute  published  at  Norhampton  in  the 
2nd  year  of  the  reign  it  is  contained  (among  other  things)  that  writs 
of  oyer  and  terminer  shall  not  be  granted  save  for  grievous  and  hor- 
rible trespass,  according  to  the  form  of  another  statute  published  in 
the  time  of  King  Edward  I,  wherein  it  is  contained  that  such  writ 
shall  not  be  granted  save  for  grievous  trespass  when  need  be  to  apply 
a  speedy  remedy  ;  and  the  king  has  revoked  his  said  writ  for  that 
before  him  and  the  council  it  is  witnessed  that  the  said  trespass  is 
not  grievous  nor  horrible  whereby  such  writ  ought  to  be  granted. 

July  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  Essex.  Order  to  stay  until  the  day  in  the  writ  con- 
Westminster,  tained  the  execution  of  a  writ  de  judicio,  ordering  the  sheriff  to  take  the 
body  of  John  Frensh  of  Brendwode  so  as  to  have  him  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  at  Westminster  on  the  day  therein  named  to 
answer  William  Reyner  concerning  an  alleged  trespass,  bringing  this 
wTit  before  the  said  justices  on  that  day  ;  as  the  said  William  is  im- 
pleading the  said  John  before  them  for  the  trespass  aforesaid,  and 
the  proceedings  have  gone  so  far  as  the  writ  above  recited,  wherefore 
prayer  is  made  to  the  king  on  behalf  of  the  said  Jolin  to  stay  the 
taking  of  his  body  by  a  mainprise,  as  he  is  ready  to  stand  to  right 
in  all  things  ;  and  William  Webbe  and  Thomas  Clerc  of  London, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  for  him  under 
a  pain  of  40Z.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  on  the  day  above 
mentioned 

July  27.         James  de  Audele  of  Helegh  to  Nicholas  de  Audele  knight    and 
Westminster.  Ehzabeth  his  wife.     Recognisance  for  500  marks,   to  be  levied,   in 
default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Devon. 

Note  that  this  recognisance  Avas  taken  by  William  de  Wychyngham, 
by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus  potestatem  which  is  on  the 
files  of  chancery  for  this  year. 
Cancelled  on  payment . 

Sept.  10.        Richard  Ballard  is  sent  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Burstall,  to 
Easthamp-    have  such  maintenance  in  that  priory  as  John  de  Coventre  deceased 
had  at  the  king's  request.  By  p.s.  [27458.] 


si  Gad, 


*  Membrane  12d.  is  blank. 


41    EDWARD    III.  393 


13()7.  Membrane  lid — cont. 

Sept.   18.         William  Mowyn  chaplain  and  John  do  Lanj^cton  chaplain  to  Richard 
Wevstminstor.  do   liydykc  ])arson  of    Bryni^jton  in   the;  dioi'csc  of  Lincoln.      Recog- 
nisance for  200  niai'ks  payable  by  instalments  ;  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Huntingdonshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Membrane  lOrf. 

Sept.  24.  To  Richard  de  Imworth  keeper  of  the  Marshalsea  prison.  Order  to 
Westminster,  set  free  from  the  said  prison  Alice  dc  Hoton,  wife  of  James  atte  Home 
'  brewere  '  of  Fletstrete  in  tlie  suburb  of  London,  by  the  mainprise 
of  Simon  Sparwe  of  Fletstrete  and  of  the  said  James  ;  as  they  have 
mainperned  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  20/.  and  under  pain  of  im- 
prisonment at  the  king's  will  that  she  shall  not  henceforth  sue  for 
delivery  of  Robert  de  Marton  notary,  taken  for  a  forgery  and  im- 
prisoned in  Colchestre  castle  by  order  of  the  council  for  certain  con- 
tempts and  grievous  trespasses  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  and  of 
the  crown. 

Oct.  13.  Richard  son  of  Thomas  de  Colshulle  to  John  rector  of  the  house 

Westminster,  of  Edyngdon  and  his  successors.     Recognisance  for  500/.,  to  be  levied, 
in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Berkshire. 

Writing  of  Richard  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  ColeshuUe,  being  a  quit- 
claim with  warranty  to  John  rector  of  the  house  or  monastery  of 
Edyndon  and  to  the  convent,  new  founded  by  William  de  Edyndon 
bishop  of  Winchester,  and  to  their  successors,  of  the  manor  of  Coles- 
huUe which  the  said  bishop  lately  had  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's 
court  by  Thomas  father  of  the  said  Ricliard,  and  the  said  rector  now 
holds.  Witnesses  :  John  de  Bleobury,  Thomas  Hungerford,  Walter 
Perle,  William  Hoghton,  Michael  Skillyng.  Dated  Edyndon,  Sunday 
before  Michaelmas  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  October. 

Oct.  13.         Jordan  de  Hulme  parson  of  Sefton  in  the  diocese  of  Coventre  and 
Westminster.  Lychfeld  to  Thonias  de  Thelwall  clerk.     Recognisance  for  20  marks, 
to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  and 
ecclesiastical  goods  in  Lancashire. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Jordan 
pay  10  marks  at  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  next. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Oct.  15.  John  Wake  of  Clyfton  to  John  fitz  Richard  of  Olneye.     Recog- 

Westminster.  nisance  for  42  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Bukinghamshire. 

Oct.  21.         Ralph  Boce  to  Guy  de  Briene  knight.     Recognisance  for  1,000/., 
Westminster,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Dorset. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Deed  indented  of  John  Hert  archpriest  of  Welcombe  and  Jolin  de 
Ecclesale  clerk,  giving  to  William  de  Haulghton  of  Staffordshire 
and  to  the  heii's  of  Ms  body  a  yearly  rent  of  20/.  to  be  taken  of  their 
manor  of  Chaldewell  co.  Essex  at  Michaelmas  and  the  Annunciation 
by  even  portions,   upon  condition   that  the  payment   thereof  shall 


394  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1367.  ^  Membrane  lOd — cont. 

be  in  suspense  so  long  as  the  said  William  and  the  heirs  of  his  body 
shall  hold  the  moieties  of  the  manors  of  Longenore  and  Wythynton 
CO.  Salop  without  being  impleaded  in  the  king's  court  by  Margaret 
daughter  and  one  of  the  heirs  of  Nicholas  de  Haulghton  knight  or  by 
her  heirs  so  as  to  lose  the  same  or  parcel  thereof,  and  that  it  shall 
be  payable  from  the  day  the  said  Margaret  or  any  of  her  heirs  shall 
so  implead  them  and  have  judgment  to  recover  the  said  moieties  or 
any  parcel  thereof,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  in  the  said 
manor.  Witnesses  :  William  Trussell  of  Cublesdon,  Fulk  de  Penbrugge, 
Richard  le  Vernoun,  William  Carles,  Robert  Corbet  knights.  Dated 
Westminster,  Thursday  after  St.  Luke  41  Edward  III.  French. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  21  October. 

Oct.  25.         Nicholas  Lyllyng    to  John  Bampton.     Recognisance  for   1001.,   to 
Westminster,  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Nor- 
hamptonshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

Oct.  26.         John  Bret  and  John  Salvayn  of  Killum  to  Richard  de  Ravenser 
Westminster,  clerk.     Recognisance  for  30^.  payable  by  instalments  ;    to  be  levied 
etc.  in  Yorkshire. 

Oct.  28.  William  de  Candelesby  of  Waltham  by  Grymesby  to  Robert  de 

Westminster.  Appelby  the  king's  Serjeant  at  arms.     Recognisance  for  40/.,  to  be 
levied  etc.  in  Lincolnshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Me 31  BRA NE  9d. 

Writing  of  John  de  Braynton  of  Tillesworth,  being  a  quitclaim 
to  John  de  la  Hay  knight  of  one  fifth  part  of  the  manor  of  Masseworth 
and  all  lands,  rents,  services  etc.  in  the  town  of  Masseworth  which 
the  said  Jolm  de  la  Haye  holds  for  the  life  of  Richard  atte  Ponde  of 
Tillesworth.  Witnesses  :  Roger  de  Pottenham  knight,  Roger  Loryng, 
Robert  de  Aldebury,  John  Selk,  Robert  Portreve.  Dated  Masseworth, 
22  October  41   Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  22  October. 

Writing  of  John  Steyneswey  of  Tillesworth,  being  a  quitclaim  to 
John  de  la  Haye  knight  of  one  fifth  part  of  the  manor  of  Masseworth 
etc.  [as  in  the  last).     Witnesses  and  date  {as  above). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  22  October. 

Assignment  of  dower  to  Clarice  who  was  wife  of  Richard  de 
Wyndesore,  made  26  July  41  Edward  III  by  John  de  Evesham 
escheator  in  Berkshire,  in  presence  of  Sh'  John  de  Flete  attorney  of 
Helmingus  Leget,  Gilbert  de  Hakeborne,  Ellis  Here\\'ard,  John  Coke, 
Richard  Robekyn  and  others,  after  taking  of  the  said  Clarice  an  oath 
that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  namely  in  the 
manor  of  Westhakeborne  one  chamber  at  the  hall  end  toAvards  the 
west  with  cellar  and  solar  thereupon  built  and  with  chimneys  and  oratory 
thereto  attached,  all  houses  from  the  said  chamber  to  the  great  gate 
to\\'ards  the  north,  the  little  grange  save  one  bay  towards  the  north, 
a  third  part  of  all  the  garden  in  rear  of  the  said  chamber  as  given  by 
metes  and  bounds  ;    the  kitchen  and  bakehouses  with  the  well,  the 


41    EDWART)    III.  395 


1307.  Membrane  9d — cont. 

dovecot,  the  pond  by  the  great  gate,  the  perquisites  of  the  court  and 
the  ox  pasture  in  the  Estniede  to  be  shared  in  common  ;  of  rents  of 
assize  of  tenants  of  the  said  manor  49.!>\  5-ld.,  whereof  13.s.  Id.  of 
Thomas  Modford,  G.s'.  9d.  of  Ahcc  Sweyn,  14,s.  of  John  liate,  13,v.  4rf. 
of  John  Kete,  S^d.  of  Ricliard  Robekyn,  2s.  of  Thomas  Stotlond  ;  of 
arable  lands  91  acres,  whereof  241  acres  lie  in  the  Southfeld  on  the 
east  side,  40  acres  above  the  Weye  Forlong,  3|  acres  in  the  Brokforlong 
towards  the  east,  3  acres  at  Renydiche,  10  acres  1  rood  13  perches  6  ft. 
at  Roggerscherd,  3|  acres  26  perches  12  ft.  at  Nicholasforlong,  3  acres 
above  Nicholasforlong  towards  the  west,  and  3  acres  at  Renydiche 
by  the  high  road  towards  tiie  west ;  of  meadow  5  acres,  whereof  1  acre 
lies  in  the  Estmcde  and  4  acres  in  the  Westmede  ;  of  pasture  1|  acres 
26  perches  12  ft.  lying  in  the  Estmede  as  given  by  metes  and  bounds, 
and  a  thu'd  part  of  all  advantage  yearly  arising  from  pasture  upon  the 
Doune  as  well  in  money  as  of  underwood  and  '  wodewexen  '  w  hen  it 
falls  in  ;  and  one  hen  yearly  arising  of  Henry  Parminter,  with  free 
ingress  and  egress  in  all  the  parcels  aforesaid. 

Assignment  of  dower  to  Clarice  who  was  wife  of  Richard  de 
Wyndesore,  made  23  July  41  Edward  III  by  John  de  Tye  escheator 
in  Middlesex,  in  presence  of  Sir  John  de  Flete  attorney  of  Helmingus 
Leget  by  view,  aid  and  counsel  of  John  Wygod,  Richard  WodehuUe, 
William  Lorchon,  Thomas  Smalewhite  and  other  neighbours,  namely 
in  the  manor  of  Stanewelle  one  low  chamber  at  the  end  of  the  hall 
behind  the  bench  towards  the  east  with  other  chambers  thereto 
annexed  towards  the  north,  the  cellar  and  solar  and  one  chimney  within 
the  solar,  and  one  parcel  of  garden  in  rear  of  the  said  chamber  towards 
the  east  as  given  by  metes  and  bounds,  the  east  end  of  the  bakehouse 
and  kitchen  by  a  wall  in  the  midst ;  the  dovecot  with  the  well  and 
pond  of  water  shall  be  in  common  between  the  heir  and  the  widow ; 
of  the  chamber  above  the  gate  one  low  chamber  with  solar  over  as 
divided  towards  the  west ;  for  stable  and  byre  three  rods  of  the 
house  called  Oxeschipene  at  the  south  end  thereof  ;  for  grange  a 
house  called  BuUochous  enclosed  with  walls  of  earth,  so  that  the  said 
Clarice  may  if  she  please  remove  and  take  down  the  '  gistes  '  and 
boards  therein  to  make  walls  and  doors  for  the  same  ;  a  garden  called 
Eldegardyn  in  rear  of  the  Bullochous  towards  the  south,  with  a  parcel 
of  pasture  thereto  attached  on  the  pond  side  towards  the  west  as  given 
by  metes  ;  perquisites  of  court  shall  be  shared  in  common  ;  of  arable 
lands  106 J  acres,  whereof  17  acres  be  at  Schobyndon,  1  acre  at  Hoc- 
hedge,  20  acres  in  Laylond,  10  acres  at  Camburst,  1  acre  in  the  Hay, 
half  an  acre  at  Horethorn,  20  acres  at  Kreugessylang  and  Benecroft, 
5J  acres  at  Forlang  atte  Gate,  5J  acres  by  the  garden  towards  the 
north,  2  acres  in  Middelforlang  on  the  south  side,  11|  acres  at  Howe- 
bynorth  on  the  south  side,  1  acre  at  Markforlang,  and  1 1  acres  of  Gluffes 
lond  as  Walter  Gluffe  sometime  held  the  same  in  lands  and  meadows 
save  1  rood  of  meadow  in  the  Newemede  ;  of  meadow  18  [acres], 
whereof  8  acres  in  the  Southay  as  given  by  metes,  1  acre  at  Newemulle 
Cites,  and  by  that  adjoining  8  acres  in  the  Fairemede  as  given  by 
metes  ;  of  pasture  4  acres  at  Reynmede  as  given  by  metes,  a  third 
part  of  all  meadow  and  pasture  in  Waiardesmede  containing  100 
acres,  within  the  enclosure  of  Camburston  a  third  part  there  with  all 
advantages  from  the  entry  of  the  gate  on  the  east  side,  and  a  little 
croft  called  Chalvelese  as  given  by  metes  and  bounds ;  of  wood  {sika 


396  CALENDAR   OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1367.  Membrane  %d — cont. 

et  bosco)  \\'ithin  Ramesangre  a  third  part  towards  Stanes,  6  acres  1^ 
rood  18  perches  3|  feet  as  given  by  metes  and  bounds,  with  free  ingress 
and  egress  by  the  gate  -when  she  shall  please  ;  a  garden  at  la  More 
called  Sprjnaggeshawe,  with  ingress  and  egress  to  all  the  above  ;  of 
the  rents  and  services  of  tenants  of  the  said  manor  118s.  9ld.  clear  to 
be  taken  yearly  without  rendering  aught  and  no  more,  for  that  the 
heir  or  his  guardian  is  bound  to  discharge  her  of  all  demands  as  well 
against  the  king  as  against  others,  namely  of  the  prioress  of  Ankereswyk 
585.  4:d.,  of  Thomas  Smalewhite  10s.  a  year,  of  the  minister  of 
Houndeslawe  13s.  9|d.,  of  Richard  Flemyng  7s.  OJrf.,  of  William  le 
Glovere  25.  4d.,  of  John  Coterel  2s.,  of  Hugh  atte  Stone  7s.,  of  the 
heir  of  John  Prat  2s..  the  heir  of  William  Lytel  Id.,  of  Peter  Roberd 
2d.,  of  Thomas  Bynorth  5s.  Gd.,  of  William  atte  Hethe  2d.,  of  Wilham 
Lorchun  2s.  Qd.  at  the  Annunciation,  of  John  Wygod  Id.  at  the  same 
term  for  1  acre  at  Wynelesmere,  of  Roger  Coterel  7s.  Qd.  a  year  ; 
8  capons,  4  of  the  prioress  of  Ankerwyke  and  4  of  William  Glovere, 
and  one  '  sticke '  of  eels  on  Ash  Wednesday  of  the  minister  of 
Houndeslawe  ;  also  the  thud  presentation  to  Stanewelle  church  on 
the  third  vacancy  after  her  said  husband's  death,  which  church  is 
extended  at  40Z.  a  year. 

Oct.  27.         James  le  Botiller  earl  of  Ormond  and  John  de  Kyngesfeld  to  Thomas 
Westminster,  de  Veer  earl  of  Oxford  and  chamberlain  of  England.     Recognisance 
for  4:001.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels 
in  Surrey. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

Oct.  27.         Jolin  de  la  Pole  knight,  son  of  William  de  la  Pole  loiight  late  lord  of 
Westminster.  Castle  Assheby  David,  to  Jolm  de  Folkyngham  clerk.     Recognisance 
for  101.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Oxfordsliue. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Oct.  28.        John    de    Foxele    knight    to    Queen    Philippa.      Recognisance    for 
Westminster.  73Z.  6s.  8d.  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Berkshire. 

Oct.  30.         Nicholas  de  Lovaigne  knight  to  Richard  parson  of  Staunton  St.  John 
Westminster,  and  Richard  Lyght.      Recognisance  for  100/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Kent. 

Nov.  21.         Anthony  de  Lucy  to  Alice  Perrers.     Recognisance  for  600/.,  to  be 
Westminster,  levied  etc.  in  Cumberland. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Alice  before  John  de 
Freton  clerk,  by  writ  of  dedimus  potestatem  which  is  on  the  files  of 
chancery  for  the  50th  year. 

Nov.  21.         John  de  Multon  to  Alice  Perrers.     Recognisance  for  20/.,   to  be 
Westminster,  levied  etc.  in  Lincolnshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  achwwledged  by  William  Grisele  attorney 
of  the  said  Alice. 

Membrane  8d. 

Writing  of  Fulk  de  Burmyngham  knight,  being  a  qriitclaim  with 
warranty  to  Peter  Coke,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Kyngeston 
Bakepys  co.  Berks  with  the  homage  and  services  of  Jolm  Sewale  and 
his  heus  for  the  lands  m  the  town  of  Boklonde  in  the  same  county 


41    EDWARD    TTT.  397 


1367.  Membrane  8d — cont. 

which  he  lately  held  of  the  said  Fulk,  of  all  lands  late  of  Robert  Scxtus 
in  the  town  of  FilTide  in  the  said  county,  9i  acres  of 
meadow  lying  in  the  town  of  Northmore  co.  Oxford  late  of  the  said 
Robert,  and  1(5.1  acres  of  meadow  called  Kathyngeye  in  the  same 
town,  all  which  the  said  Peter  has  for  life  of  the  demise  of  the  said 
Fulk.  Witnesses  :  Thomas  de  Tiesilles,  Thomas  do  Kyngeston,  John 
Golafre  knights,  Hugh  Segrave,  John  de  Kstbury,  John  Luclies,  Thomas 
atte  More.  Dated  Kyngeston  Bakepys,  Friday  after  St.  Simon  and 
St.  Jude  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  30  October. 

Writing  of  John  Lovel  of  Herdyngton,  granting  to  William  de 
Hasthorp,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  40/.  to  be  taken  of 
all  the  lands  of  the  said  John  in  Herdyngton  at  C'liristmas,  with  power 
to  distrain  for  arrears.     Dated  London,  2  November  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  November. 

Nov.  4.  To  Thomas  de  Dale.     Order  to  continue  the  good  behaviour  which 

Westminstor.  he  has  displayed  as  well  in  presence  of  the  king's  son  the  duke  of 
Clarence  wliile  guardian  in  Ireland  as  since  his  departure  from 
Ireland,  whereof  praiseworthy  witness  in  borne  to  the  king,  that 
the  king's  business  and  the  state  of  Ireland  may  be  prosperously 
guided  and  the  said  Thomas  may  earn  worthy  commendation,  signify- 
ing to  the  king  from  time  to  time  the  state  wherein  Ireland  now  is, 
and  what  things  are  needful  for  the  succour  and  relief  thereof  ;  as  the 
king,  deservedly  commending  the  probity,  circumspection  and  laud- 
able behaviour  of  the  said  Thomas,  thanks  him  for  the  same,  willing 
that  he  shall  abide  in  Ireland  until  further  order  for  the  good  ruling 
and  prosperity  thereof,  lending  his  counsel  and  aid  with  other  the 
king's  counsellors  and  lieges.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Fosdera.] 

Nov.  3.  John  Lovel  of  Herdyngton  to  William  de  Hastthorp.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  400/.  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Middlesex. 

Indenture  between  William  de  Hastthorp  and  John  Lovel  of 
Herdyngton,  being  a  defeasance  as  well  of  a  rent  of  40/.  by  the  said 
John  granted  to  the  said  William,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  by  writing 
emolled  in  chancery,  to  be  taken  yearly  at  Christmas  of  all  the  lands 
of  the  same  John  in  Herdyngton,  as  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon 
condition  that  the  said  John  shall  at  the  said  William's  cost  before 
Michaelmas  next  make  to  the  said  William  a  sure  estate  by  deed 
enrolled  in  chancery,  letters  of  attorney  like%A'ise  there  enrolled  and 
otherwise  as  he  shall  appoint,  of  all  the  manors,  lands,  lordships, 
advowsons,  profits  etc.  late  of  Gilbert  Barentyn,  William  Barentyn, 
John  Barentyn  and  Philip  Barentyn  in  the  isle  of  Jereseye,  and  that 
the  said  William,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  shall  never  hereafter  be  im- 
pleaded concerning  the  same  or  parcel  thereof,  thrust  out  nor  troubled 
by  the  said  John,  by  Edmund  his  brother,  by  Isabel  his  sister,  nor  by 
their  heirs  ;  provided  that  if  the  said  John  shall  not  make  such 
estate,  or  if  the  said  WiUiam,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  shall  be  impleaded, 
thrust  out  or  troubled  as  aforesaid  by  the  said  John,  Edmund  or 
Isabel,  theii-  heiis  or  any  of  their  behalf,  contrivance  or  assent,  and 


398  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1367.  Membrane  8c? — cont. 

this  be  found  by  inquisition  of  men  of  the  neighbourhood  of  Her- 
dyngton  co.  Middlesex,  both  the  writing  and  recognisance  before 
recited  shall  be  in  force.  Dated  London,  3  November  41  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  November. 

Nov.  5.  Robert  James  of  Yevele  to  Robert  Sambourne  parson  of  Yevele. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  200  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,   of 
his  lands  and  chattels  in  Somerset. 

Charter  of  John  Pyel  citizen  and  merchant  of  London  and  John  de 
Notyngham  '  ostiler,'  giving  with  warranty  to  Master  John  Goderiche, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  all  the  lands  and  tenements  which  they  lately 
had  in  the  towTi  of  Westminster,  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  Richard  de 
Welton  rector  of  Billynge  co.  Norhampton,  and  the  said  Richard  by 
gift  and  feoffment  of  John  Boneaventure.  Witnesses  :  Richard  Roke, 
Robert  Gy  then  bailiff  of  the  abbot  of  Westminster,  Peter  Bocher, 
Robert  Hacburne,  Roger  Soddebury,  W^illiam  Brynge,  Richard  Hame. 
Dated  the  town  of  Westminster,  1  November  41  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  John  Pyel  citizen  and  merchant  of  London  and  John  de 
Notyngham  '  ostiler,'  being  a  quitclaim  \^ith  warranty  to  Master  John 
Goderiche,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  lands  and  tenements 
[described  in  the  last).  Witnesses  {as  above).  Dated  the  town  of 
Westminster,  5  November  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  5  November. 

Nov.   11.         Walter  Wayte  is  sent  to  the  abbot   and   convent   of   Leyston   co. 

Westminster.  Suffolk,  to  have  such  maintenance  in  that  abbey  as  Simon  Sojornaunt 

deceased  had  at  the  king's  request.  By  p.s.  [27486.] 

Nov.   15.         Edward  de  Barkele  knight,   Robert  Mansel  of  London   '  mercer  ' 
Westminster,  and  Simon  de  Wynchecombe  of  London  '  armorere  '    to   Edmund  de 
Sarmesfeld.     Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  80L,  to  be  levied,  in 
default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Norffolk. 

Membrane  id. 

Charter  of  John  Goderyk  the  king'  serjeant  and  cook,  giving  with 
warranty  to  Simon  de  Mordon  citizen  and  '  stokfishmongere '  of  Lon- 
don and  Alice  his  wife,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  that  messuage  with 
garden  adjoining  in  the  parish  of  St.  Olave  Suthwerk  sometime  of 
Robert  Olyver  called  '  la  Crouchehous  '  which  he  the  said  John  lately 
had  of  the  grant  of  William  de  Sleford  clerk,  as  enclosed  by  metes, 
hays  and  ditches.  Dated  Southwerk,  Saturday  after  St.  Luke 
41  Edvv'ard  III.  Witnesses  :  John  de  Lambourne,  Robert  Ruthyn, 
John  de  Mokkyng,  Robert  le  Vynour,  John  Typet,  John  Folevyle, 
William  de  Malton  of  Southwerk,  John  Louekyn,  Thomas  atte  Leghe, 
Edmund  Olyver,  W^illiam  de  Kirketon,  James  de  Radewell  citizens 
of  London. 

Writing  of  John  Goderyk  the  king's  serjeant  and  cook,  being  a 
quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Simon  de  Mordon  citizen  and  '  stokfish- 
mongere '  of  London  and  Alice  his  wife,  their  heirs  and  assigns  what- 


41    EDWARD    in.  399 


1307.  Membrane  Id — cont. 

soever,  of  tlic  niossuago  with  ji;aidcn  adjoining  calh^d  '  la  Croiiohohoua  ' 
in  t\w  parish  of  St.  Olave  Soutlnvcik  sometime  of  Robert  Olyver  as 
enclosed  etc.,  which  they  lately  had  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  the 
said  John.  Dated  South werk,  Monday  the  feast  of  All  Saints  41  Ed- 
ward III.     W'^itnesses  {as  the  Inst). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  5  November. 

Charter  of  John  Lovel,  son  of  John  Lovel  of  Herdyngton,  giving 
with  warranty  to  William  de  Hasttliorp,  his  heirs,  and  assigns,  all  the 
manors,  lordships,  liberties,  lands,  rents,  services,  advowsons  of 
churches  and  chapels,  rights,  reversions,  commodities  etc.  in  the  isle 
of  Jerseye,  sometime  of  Gilbert  Barentyn  his  grandfather,  William 
Barentyn,  John  Barentyn,  and  Philip  Barentyn.  Dated  London, 
1  November  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum,  of  acknowledgment,  6  November. 

Writing  of  John  Lovel,  son  of  John  Lovel  of  Herdyngton,  being 
a  letter  of  attorney  to  Thomas  Wodehous  to  sue  in  the  said  John's 
name  all  withholding  or  occupying  manors,  lands,  rents,  advowsons, 
reversions,  rights  and  commodities  in  the  isle  of  Jerseye  sometime 
of  Gilbert  Barentyn,  William  Barentyn,  Jolm  Barentyn  and  Philip 
Barentyn  or  parcel  thereof,  to  receive  seisin  of  the  premises  and  attorn- 
ments of  tenants  thereof,  disposing  thereof  according  to  other  letters 
patent  to  be  to  him  made  by  the  said  John.  Dated  London, 
28  October  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  6  November. 

Charter  of  William  le  Venour  citizen  and  merchant  of  London, 
giving  with  warranty  to  Roger  Syward  of  Dorchestre  co.  Dorset, 
Maud  his  wife,  John  Syward  son  of  the  said  Roger,  Master  Walter 
Calmescote  rector  of  Long  Cheselborne  and  Sir  Andrew  Tanner  rector 
of  All  Saints  Dorchestre,  and  to  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  Roger, 
his  manor  of  Styntesford  and  Frome  Bonvileston  in  the  said  county 
with  its  appurtenances  as  in  houses,  buildings,  hays,  curtilages,  gar- 
dens, lands,  woods,  trees,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  commons, 
ways,  paths,  hedges,  ditches,  dovecots,  mills,  waters,  ponds,  fish 
ponds,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  heriots,  escheats,  homages,  customs, 
rents,  services  of  free  tenants,  neifs  and  villeins  and  all  that  goes  with 
them,  suits  of  courts,  reversions,  rights,  advantages  etc.  thereto 
belonging  as  well  in  the  town  of  Dorchestre  as  elsewhere.  Witnesses  : 
Sir  Guy  de  Briene,  Sir  John  Chidyok,  Sir  John  atte  Hale,  Sir  Robert 
Martyn  knights,  Walter  Perle,  Adam  atte  More,  William  Payn, 
Walter  Mortymer,  William  Hamond,  William  Wyther,  John  de  Frome. 
Dated  Monday  the  feast  of  St.  Luke  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  6  Noveinber. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Dyve,  brother  and  heir  of  Henry  Dyve,  being 
a  quitclaim  to  the  dean  and  college  of  the  chapel  of  St.  George  wdthin 
Wyndesore  castle  and  to  their  successors  of  all  right,  action  and 
demand  in  the  manor  of  Evere  by  reason  of  any  yearly  pension  or 
otherAA'ise,   and   a  general  release   of   all   actions  real   and  personal. 


400  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1367  Membrane  Id — cont. 

Witnesses  :  William  Molyns  knight,  Nicholas  Newenham,  John  Badby, 
John  Bretewell,  John  Forse.  Dated  Wjmdesore,  8  November 
41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  9  November. 

Nov.  9.  Roger   Bacoun   of   Baconesthorp   to   Lambert   de   Weston  knight. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  500  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of 
his  lands  and  chattels  in  Norffolk. 

Nov.   IL         John  de  Clenchewarton  of  Norffolk  to  Jolm  de  Denham  and  Hugh 
Westminster.  Cursoun  of  Carleton.     Recognisance   for   lOOZ.,  to   be   levied   etc.  in 
Norffolk. 

Nov.   1 1 .         Brother  William  de  Norton,  master  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Mary  del 

Westnninstor.  Westgate  Newcastle  upon  Tine,  John  del  Chaumbre  and  Wilham  de 

Acton  both  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne  to  Richard  de  Ravensere  clerk. 

Joint    and    several   recognisance    for    18L    95.   to    be    levied    etc.    in 

Northumberland. 

Cancelled  on  'payment. 

Nov.   15.         Richard  de  Brankescombe  the  younger,  John  de  Newenham,  John 
Westminster.  Wadham  and  John  Fokery  to  Peter  de  Lacy  and  John  de  Delves. 
Recognisance  for  40^.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Devon. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Richard, 
John  de   Brankescombe   {sic),  John  Newenham,  John  Wadham  and 
John  Fokery  pay  26L  135.  M.  in  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  next. 
Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Peter. 

Nov.  18.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.  Order  to  stay  until  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary 
Westminster,  next  the  taking  of  the  body  of  Robert  de  Aclom  of  Scardeburgh  in- 
dicted for  divers  alleged  oppressions,  extortions  and  concealments, 
by  the  mainprise  of  Roger  de  Fulthorp,  John  de  Waddesworth,  William 
de  Risceby  the  younger,  John  Capoun,  William  de  Ulram  and  Richard 
de  Beverle  parson  of  Croft,  who  have  mainperned  in  chancery  to  have 
him  before  the  king  in  the  octaves  aforesaid  to  stand  to  right  in  the 
premises,  and  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court  shall  determine,  for 
his  good  behaviour,  and  that  he  shall  not  do  nor  procure  hurt  or 
prejudice  to  those  who  have  indicted  him  or  who  are  suing  against 
him  for  the  king.  By  C. 

Membrane  6d. 

Nov.  22.         John  de  Burle  knight  to  WiUiam  Latymer  knight.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for    SOI.    payable   at   Christmas    1368  ;    to    be    levied,    in   default    of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Hertfordshire  {sic). 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Nov.  20.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  cause  Adam  son  of  Henry 
Westminster.  Garlekmongre  of  Norhampton  to  be  set  free  from  arrest  by  the  main- 
prise of  John  Bettelowe,  Henry  de  Hegham,  John  Olneye  and  Henry 
de  Gylcsburgh  of  Norhamptonshire  ;  as  lately  at  the  suit  of  Alice 
Notyere  of  London,  complaining  that  the  said  Adam  threatened  her, 
the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  cause  him  to  keep  the  peace  towards 
her,  and  they  arrested  and  are  detaining  him  because  he  found  not 
security  for  so  doing  ;    and  now  the  said  Adam  appearing  in  person 


41     EDWARD    TTT. 


401 


1867.  Memhrnne  6c? — cont. 

in  chancery  has  found  the  said  mainpernors,  who  have  mainperned 
under  a  pain  of  20/.  for  his  good  behaviour  toward  the  said  Alice,  so 
that  no  hurt  nor  peril  shall  come  to  her  by  him  or  by  his  procure- 
ment. 

Writing  of  John  count  of  Tankarville  viscount  of  Meleun,  cham- 
berlain of  France  and  constable  of  Normandy,  being  a  letter  of  attorney 
to  Adam  de  lUny  burgess  of  London  to  sue  for  and  receive  a  sum  of 
3,000  crowns  of  gold  a  year  at  the  exchequer  of  England  at  Christmas 
and  Midsummer  during  the  said  chamberlain's  life,  in  which  sum  the 
king  is  bound  to  him  by  his  letters  patent  under  the  great  seal,  and 
to  give  quittances  for  the  same.  Dated  London,  26  October  1367. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  before  William  bishop  of  Win- 
chester the  chancellor,  24  November. 

Nov.  26.         Roger  Fulthorp  to  Queen  Philippa.     Recognisance  for  16Z.,  to  be 
Westminster,  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Yorkshire. 

Nov.  26.         John  de  Ditton  parson  of  Abbots  Ripton  to  Henry  de  Codjmgton 
■Westminster,  parson  of  Botelesford.     Recognisance  for   lOZ.,   to  be  levied  etc.   of 
his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Huntingdonshire. 

Memorandum   of  defeasance,   upon   condition  that   the  said  John 
pay  100s.  on  the  feast  of  St.  Peter's  Chaii-  next. 
Cancelled  on  'payment. 

Nov.  26.  John  de  Rothewell  clerk  of  Norhamptonshire,  John  de  Tamworth 
Wesiminster.  clerk  of  London,  and  John  de  Herdwyk  of  Oxfordshire  to  Roger  de 
Barneburgh  clerk,  proctor  of  Master  Thomas  de  Paxston  prebendary 
of  Croppery  in  the  church  of  St.  Mary  Lincoln.  Joint  and  several 
recognisance  for  52L  payable  by  instalments  ;  to  be  levied  etc.  of 
their  lands  and  chattels  in  Norhamptonshire. 

Memoreindiim  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  John, 
John  and  John  or  one  of  them  pay  13L  at  Easter  next  or  within  the 
quinzaine  following,  and  13/.  at  Midsummer  following  or  within  the 
quinzaine  thereof. 

Writing  of  Thomas  son  and  heir  of  Walter  de  Chiriton,  being  a 
quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Walter  Whithors  and  Isabel  his  wife,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  right  in  the  lands  of  the  said  Walter  and  Isabel 
in  Bencham  and  Croydon.  Dated  Westminster,  25  November 
41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum^  of  acknowledgment,  26  November. 

Writing  of  Thomas  son  and  heir  of  William  de  Chiriton,  being  a 
quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  de  Bergh,  John  de  Hamuldon  vicar 
of  Croydon  and  John  son  of  Robert  Oliver  of  Croydon,  their  heirs 
and  assigns,  of  all  right  in  the  lands,  rents,  etc.  which  they  hold  in 
Cranham  in  the  parishes  of  Croydon  and  Saundrestede.  Dated 
Westminster,  25  November  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  26  November. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Stoketon  of  York  '  girdeler,'  being  a  bond  to 
Sir  Richard  de  Ravenser  clerk  in  40Z.  payable  at  London  at  Whitsun- 
tide next.     Dated  London,  26  November  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27  November. 

E  26 


402 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


^ggY  Membrane  Qd — cont. 

Charter  indented  of  John  Bockote  of  Bockote,  demising  with 
warranty  to  Walter  Bockote  of  Shuyngham  his  brother  for  life  his 
manor  of  Bockote,  to  be  held  of  the  said  John  and  his  heirs,  doing 
for  them  the  services  due  to  the  chief  lords,  and  rendering  yearly  one 
rose  at  Midsummer.  Witnesses  :  John  de  Wyke  of  Grauntpaunte, 
John  Croke  of  Grove,  Adam  atte  Castel  of  Sutton,  Adam  atte  Wyke  of 
Ordeston,  John  Edmund  of  Styvyngton.  Dated  Bockote,  Monday 
after  Midsummer  37  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  30  November  this  year. 

Writing  of  John  Bockote  of  Bockote,  being  a  grant  and  sale  to  Walter 
Bockote  of  Shiryngham  his  brother  of  all  the  goods  and  chattels  of  the 
said  John  alive  and  dead  upon  his  manor  of  Bockote.  Dated  Bockote, 
Monday  after  Midsummer  41  {sic)  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  30  November  this  year. 

Dec.  4.  John  de  Thorneton  is  sent  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Kirkeham, 

Westminster,  to  tak&  such  maintenance  of  the  said  priory,  and  hold  the  same  office 

there  for  life,  as  Gilbert  de  Briddeshale  deceased  had  there  at  the 

king's  request.  By  p.s.  [27505.] 

Membrane  5d. 

Dec.  1.  William  le  Venour  citizen  and  merchant  of  London  to  Walter  de 

Westminster.  Perlee.     Recognisance  for  lOOZ.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon  con- 
dition that  Roger  SyA\ard  of  Dorchestre,  Maud  his  wife,  John 
Syward  son  of  the  said  Roger,  Master  Walter  Calmescote  parson  of 
Long  Cheselbourne,  Sir  Andrew  Tanner  parson  of  All  Saints  Dor- 
chestre, and  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  Roger  shall  peaceably 
hold  the  manor  of  Styntesford  co.  Dorset  according  to  a  charter  of 
feoffment  to  them  made  by  William  le  Venour  citizen  and  merchant 
of  London,  without  losing  a  third  part  or  any  parcel  thereof  at  the 
suit  of  Mabel  wife  of  the  said  William  by  writ  of  dower  if  she  survive 
him.  Dated  London,  Thursday  after  St.  Andrew  41  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknoA\'ledgment  by  the  said  William  and  Walter 
de  Perlee,  2  December. 

Dec.   1.  Richard  de  Willesford  of  Welbourne  to  Richard  de  Ravenser  clerk. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  4  marks ;   to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Lincolnshire. 


Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  made  by  John  de  Stodeye  of  London, 
John  de  Birlyngham  of  London,  Philip  Taverner  of  London  and 
Thomas  White  of  Great  Jernemuth  before  the  chancellor,  the 
treasurer  and  others  of  the  council  at  Westminster  on  Saturday 
4  December  this  year  for  Geoffrey  de  Fordelee  of  Great  Jernemuth, 
who  appeared  in  person  before  the  council  and  acknowledged  that 
at  sea  ^^ithout  the  port  of  that  to\Mi  he  bought  eight  lasts  of  fresh 
herrings  coming  thither  in  a  boat  of  Holand,  to  have  his  body  before 
the  council  in  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  next  to  answer  concerning 
the  premises  and  all  other  things  that  shall  be  laid  against  him 
on  behalf  of  the  king  and  of  John  Wroth  citizen  of  London. 


41    EDWAIU)    TTT.  403 


1367.  Memhrane  5d — cont. 

Nov.  15.  To  Jolm  do  Cressy.  Order  to  .stay  altogether  the  further  execution 
Westminster,  of  the  king's  late  coiniuission  to  make  incjuiisition  concerning  felonies, 
trespasses  and  evil  doings  connnitted  by  one  of  the  king's  bailiffs  of 
Kirketon  wapentake  in  Lincolnshire,  for  which  John  Stevenson  one 
of  the  said  bailiffs  is  indicted,  sending  the  same  for  execution  before 
John  Knyvct,  Thomas  de  Ingelby  and  John  de  Cavendyssh  or  two  of 
them  at  days  and  places  of  which  he  shall  have  notice,  and  bringing  this 
writ ;  as  the  king  has  appointed  the  said  John  Knyvct,  Thomas  and  John 
de  Cavendyssh  and  two  of  theni  justices  to  [hear  and  determine]  all 
indictments  before  the  said  John  de  Cressy  and  his  fellows,  to  make 
incpiisition  concerning  other  felonies  and  trespasses  of  which  none  is 
yet  made,  and  to  hear  and  determine  the  said  felonies  at  the  suit 
of  the  king  only,  and  the  said  trespasses  as  well  at  the  suit  of  the  king 
as  of  others  willing  to  make  complaint  or  sue  before  them.       By  C. 

Nov.   18.         To  the  sheriff  of  York.     Order  to  stay  the  taking  of  Robert  de  Aclom 
Westminster,  of  Scardeburgli  {as  above,  p.  400).  By  C. 

1368. 

Jan.  16.         To  Christopher  de  Moriceby.     Order,  for  particular  causes,  under 

Westminster,  pain  of  forfeiting  lOOL,  to  be  in  person  before  the  king  and  council  at 

Westminster  on  Friday  after  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next,  to  give 

information   touching   certain   matters   of   which   the   king   would   be 

informed.  By  K. 

The  like  to  the  follo\\dng  : 

John  de  Thirlwall  of  Astenby. 
Adam  de  Aglyonby. 
John  de  Ireby  of  Warthull. 
John  de  Alaynby. 
Mandate  to  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland  to  deliver  the  above  writs, 
certifying  in  chancery  the  time  of  such  delivery.  By  K. 


1367. 


Charter  of  Ingelram  lord  of  Coucy  and  earl  of  Bedeford,  granting 
with  warranty  for  particular  causes  that  all  manors  and  lands  which 
Joan  who  was  wiie  of  John  de  Coupelond  holds  for  life  with  reversion 
to  the  said  earl  and  his  heirs  shall  after  her  death  remain  to  the  king 
and  his  heirs,  with  the  knights'  fees,  the  advowsons  of  churches,  hos- 
pitals, religious  houses,  vicarages  and  chapels,  the  parks,  forests, 
chaces,  woods,  warrens,  fisheries,  moors,  marshes,  turbaries,  meadows, 
feedings,  pastures,  services  of  tenants  free  and  neif,  liberties,  royalties, 
escheats,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  commodities,  profits  etc.  thereto 
belonging.  Witnesses  :  W.  bishop  of  Winchester  the  chancellor, 
J.  bishop  of  Ely  the  treasurer,  Lionel  duke  of  Clarence,  John  duke  of 
Lancastre,  Edmund  earl  of  Cantebrigge,  Richard  earl  of  Arundell, 
Edward  le  Despenser  lord  of  Glamorgan,  Bartholomew  de  Burgherssh, 
and  John  atte  Lee  steward  of  the  king's  household.  Dated  London, 
26  November  41  Edward  III. 

Charter  of  Ingelram  lord  of  Coucy  and  earl  of  Bedeford,  granting 
with  warranty  for  particular  causes  that  all  manors  and  lands  which 
Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Coupeland  holds  for  life  \A'ith  reversion 
to  the  said  earl  and  to  his  heirs  shall  after  her  death  remain  to  King 
Edward  and  to  the  kings  of  England,  ^\ith  the  knights'  fees  etc.  {as 
the  last).  Witnesses  {as  the  last).  Dated  the  king's  palace  of  West- 
minster, 


404 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1367.  Membrane  6d — cont. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charters  at  London 
before  William  bishop  of  Winchester  the  chancellor,  26  November. 

After,  on  3  February  43  Edward  III,  the  said  Joan  came  to  the  manse  of  the 
prior  and  brethren  of  the  order  of  preachers  within  Ludegate  London,  and 
there  before  the  same  bisJiop,  John  bishop  of  Ely  the  treasurer,  Peter  de 
Lacy  keeper  of  the  privy  seal,  David  de  Wollore  keeper  of  the  rolls  of 
chancery  and  others  of  the  council,  attorned  tenant  to  the  king  for  all  the 
lands  in  the  above  charters  contained,  acknowledging  that  she  would 
henceforth  hold  the  same  of  him,  and  perform  to  him  the  services  thereof 
due. 


Membrane  4c?. 

Dec.  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.     Order,  on  sight  of  these  presents,  forth- 

Westminster.  with  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  on  the  king's  behalf  forbidding 
any  merchant  or  other  of  whatsoever  condition,  under  pain  of  forfeiture 
of  life  and  limb,  in  their  lodgings  or  elsewhere  secretly  or  openly  to 
receive  or  pay  in  buying  and  selling  or  otherwise  any  money  of  the 
coinage  of  Scotland  or  other  foreign  lands,  or  any  other  money  save  the 
king's  money  of  his  owna  coinages,  and  that  all  merchants  and  others 
having  such  moneys  shall  from  time  to  time  under  pain  of  forfeiture 
thereof  cause  the  same  to  be  exchanged  and  delivered  for  bullion  and 
not  by  name  of  money,  arresting  any  found  after  the  proclamation 
doing  contrary  to  the  same  and  the  foibidden  moneys  found  with 
them,  keeping  them  in  safe  custody,  until  further  order,  and  certifying 
from  time  to  time  in  chancery  their  action  in  this  behalf  ;  as  the 
money  of  England  of  the  king's  coinages,  gold  and  silver,  is  much 
impaired  and  is  constantly  drawn  out  of  the  realm  by  reason  of  divers 
moneys  of  less  price,  weight  and  value  which  have  long  been  and  yet 
are  current  in  England,  to  the  hurt  of  the  king  and  all  his  people, 
and  the  king,  willing  to  make  provision  for  the  common  weal  against 
such  hurt,  with  consent  and  advice  of  the  council  has  made  order 
that  no  money  of  the  coinage  of  Scotland  or  other  foreign  lands  shall 
have  currency  in  the  realm,  nor  be  received  nor  delivered,  save  the 
money  of  his  own  coinages.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Foedera.] 

The  like  to  singular  the  sheriffs  of  England,  and  mutatis  mutandis 
to  the  follomng  : 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Karliol,  and  of  27  other  cities  and 

towns. 
The  bailiffs  of  Penreth,  and  of  58  other  cities  and  towns. 
The  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London. 
The  steward  and  bailiffs  of  the  isle  of  Wight. 
Thomas  bishop  of  Durham. 
Edward  prince  of  Aquitaine  and  Wales  duke  of  Cornwall  and 

earl  of  Chester,  or  his  justice  in  Cheshire. 
The  said  prince,  or  his  justice  in  the  parts  of  Wales. 
Ralph  Spigurnell  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  ^^'arden  of  the 
Cinque  Ports,  or  his  lieutenant. 
[Ibid.] 

Dec.  8.  To   the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  to  cause  proclamation  to  be 

Westminster,  made  in  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London  of  the  king's  order  that  all 

exchanges  of  gold  and  silver  shall  henceforth  until  further  order  be 

held  in  Bokleresbury  within  the  said  city,  and  to  cause  the  same  tp 


41    EDWARD    Iir.  405 


13G7.  Membrane  4d — cont. 

be  observed,  forbidding  all  and  singular  of  whatsoever  condition 
under  pain  of  forfeiture  to  act  contrary  to  the  same,  arresting  by  their 
bodi(\s  any  found  so  doing  after  the  jjioclaniation  and  the  gold,  silver 
and  bulUon  found  with  tlieni,  keeping  them  in  safe  custody  until 
further-  order,  and  certifying  in  chancery  from  time  to  time  under  seal 
all  their  ac^tion  in  this  behalf  ;  as  ofttimes  reflec;ting  how  his  moneys 
of  gold  and  silver  are  ever  taken  out  of  the  realm,  and  are  so 
diminishing  that  money  is  hardly  found  towards  the  people's  need, 
learning  by  repeated  complaints  that  much  hurt  to  the  king  and  people 
has  hitherto  arisen  and  is  expected  to  arise  hereafter  by  reason  of 
the  exchanges  of  money  set  and  appointed  by  the  king  in  the  said 
city,  and  desiring  to  apply  a  remedy  so  that  bullion  of  gold  and  silver 
may  remain  in  the  realm,  by  striking  whereof  in  the  mints  shall  be 
had  greater  abundance  of  money  in  time  to  come  and  the  uses  of  the 
people  shall  be  more  readily  served,  and  for  other  causes,  by  advice 
of  the  council  the  king  has  made  order  as  above  rehearsed,  willing 
nevertheless  that  all  who  will  make  exchange  of  such  bullion  shall 
so  often  as  need  be  repair  thither  or  to  his  mint  in  the  Tower  of  Lon- 
don and  not  elsewhere,  there  to  receive  promptly  and  continually  the 
value  thereof  according  to  the  currency  of  the  said  mints  without 
giving  or  paying  any  profit  in  the  said  exchanges  to  the  king's  use, 
that  hereby  all  his  people  may  know  that  the  king  will  prefer  the 
common  weal  to  his  private  advantage  so  long  as  he  will  take  nothing 
by  reason  of  such  exchanges  saving  his  seignorage  and  the  profit  of 
the  coinage  as  he  was  used  heretofore.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Foedera.] 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Walden,  son  and  heir  of  Andrew  de  Walden, 
being  a  grant  and  demise,  for  a  sum  of  money  in  hand  paid,  with  war- 
ranty of  his  manor  and  advowson  of  Magdeleyn  Laver  mth  the  free- 
holders and  neifs,  woods,  meadows,  feedings  and  pastures,  and  his 
park  of  Aungre  co.  Essex  with  the  freeholders,  lands,  meadows,  feed- 
ings, pastures  etc.  to  Sir  John  Wade,  his  heirs,  assigns  or  executors 
for  ten  years,  rendering  yearly  one  rose  at  Midsummer.  Witnesses  : 
Sir  John  de  Pokbrige,  Gilbert  de  Stanesford  knights,  Jolrn  de  Gamp- 
ton,  John  Olive,  John  Gippe,  Richard  Hunte,  Edmund  Coke.  Dated 
Navestoke,  Saturday  after  St.  Nereus  and  St.  Achilles  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  22  December. 

Dec.  22.  William    Hawe    of    Covenham    to    William    Abbot    of    Kelleseye. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  40/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  Lincolnshire. 

Membrane  3d. 

Indenture  witnessing  that  Su"  Wilham  de  Molyns  knight  has 
enfeoffed  Su'  William  de  Forde  parson  of  Ebrigliton,  Edmund  fitz  John, 
John  de  Arderne  and  William  Wyot,  then-  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the 
manors  of  Stokepugeys  and  Bichyndon  co.  Bukingham  and  Bamp- 
ton  CO.  Oxford  with  the  hamlet  of  Aston,  all  the  wood  called  la  Sale 
CO.  Bukingham,  and  all  other  his  lands  in  the  said  towns,  and  of  a 
yearly  farm  of  81.  which  Thomas  de  Coubrugge  during  his  life  is  boiind 
to  pay  the  said  Sir  William  [de  Molyns]  and  his  heirs  for  the  manor 
of  la  Boxe  co.  Wyltes  with  the  reversion  thereof,  and  that  the  said 
feoffment  and  the  seisin  thereupon  taken  are  under  these  conditions, 


406  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


]^3g7^  Membrane  ScZ — cont. 

to  wit  that  in  case  Sir  William  [de  Moljrns]  shall  die  before  he  return 
from  over  sea,  the  feoffees  or  three  of  them  shall  of  the  issues  of  the 
premises  and  of  parcel  thereof  take  order  for  his  soul,  the  souls  of 
Sir  John  his  father,  Dame  Gile  Ms  mother  and  their  ancestors  ;  that 
if  Richard  the  eldest  son  of  Sii'  William  [de  MolynsJ  survive  him,  they 
shall  enfeoff  William  his  younger  son  of  the  said  manor  of  Bampton 
and  hamlet  of  Aston  to  him  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  with  remainder 
for  lack  of  such  an  lieu-  to  the  right  heirs  of  Sir  William  ;  that  of  the 
residue  the  said  feoffees  shall  take  order  as  aforesaid,  and  shall  make 
partition  of  the  remainder  among  other  the  sons  and  daughters  of 
Sii'  William  [de  Molyns]  not  advanced  nor  married  as  they  or  three  of 
them  shall  think  fit ;  that  if  the  said  Richard  die  without  issue  before 
such  feoffment  made,  whereby  the  heritage  shall  descend  to  the  said 
William  his  brother,  or  in  case  both  shall  so  die,  the  said  feoffees  or 
three  of  them  shall  take  order  as  aforesaid  of  the  said  manor  of 
Bampton  and  hamlet  as  of  other  the  jwemises,  and  shall  make  par- 
tition as  aforesaid  of  what  remains  ;  that  in  case  no  issue  of  the  body 
of  Sir  William  [de  Molyns]  shall  remain,  the  said  feoffees  or  three  of 
them  shall  take  order  as  aforesaid  of  all  the  premises,  so  that  the  dis- 
posal thereof  shall  be  at  their  discretion  without  impeachment  of  any 
man,  and  without  rendering  account  or  reason  to  any  but  God  ;  and 
that  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  said  feoffees,  or  three,  two  or  one  of  them 
surviving,  to  enfeoff  such  and  so  many  others  as  they  shall  please  of 
the  premises  without  the  conditions  aforesaid,  provided  always  that 
whensoever  Sir  William  [de  Molyns]  shall  after  this  date  return  to 
England,  it  shall  be  lawful  for  him  again  to  enter  the  premises  at  his 
will,  this  feoffment  and  the  seisin  thereupon  had  notwithstanding, 
and  in  case  he  shall  so  leturn  and  die  before  entering  them  again,  the 
said  feoffees  shall  continue  their  estate  in  the  premises  under  the 
conditions  above  written.  Dated  Stoke  Pugeys,  Tuesday  the  feast 
of  St.  Andrew  41  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  London, 
12  December. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Walden,  son  and  heir  of  Andrew  de  Walden, 
being  a  quitclaim  A\'ith  warranty  to  Jolin  Wade  canon  of  St.  Paul 
London  and  to  his  heirs  of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Maudeleyn 
Lauver,  the  park  of  Aungre  co.  Essex  and  all  things  thereto  belonging. 
Witnesses  :  Sir  Nicholas  Golofre  knight,  Sir  John  Bryan  rector  of 
Throkkyngge,  Robert  son  of  Geoffrey,  Robert  Basset,  Hamon  de  Ware. 
Dated  Sandon,  Thursday  before  Ascension  day  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Westminster,  22  December. 


1368. 


Writing  of  Valentine  atte  Mede  of  Bromden,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  William  de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Bourhunt  Herberd  and  all  other  lands, 
rents,  meadows,  woods,  feedings,  pastures,  services  of  free  tenants 
and  neifs  etc.  sometime  of  John  de  Bourhunt  knight  in  Suthwyke, 
Wanstede,  Wymeryng,  Shepewassh,  Porchestre,  Westbourhunt,  Far- 
ham  and  Hameldon.  Witnesses  :  Jolui  de  Warbleton,  Henry  de  Pop- 
ham,  Peter  de  Bruges,  Walter  Haywode,  Thomas  Warner,  Richard 
Pauncefote,  Stephen  Haym.  Dated  Suthwerk  in  the  suburb  of  Lon- 
don, Friday  the  morrow  of  the  Epiphany  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  "the  chancery  at  Suthwerk, 
8  January. 


41    EDWARD    III.  407 


l;i()7.  Membrane  'id — cont. 

Oct.  24.  To   the  .sheriff   of   Northumberland.     Order   to   arrest   WiUiam  do 

VVestminstor.  \\'ahon,  wherever  he  shall  be  found,  with  the  king's  late  letters  patent 
appointing  him  to  arrest  and  take  all  those  who,  as  he  might  be 
assured,  took  wool  and  other  merchanilise,  corn  and  other  victuals 
out  of  the  realm  not  cocketed  nor  custonu^d,  to  bring  them  to  places 
in  the  said  letters  specified,  and  to  do  other  things  tlierein  contained, 
forthw  ith  standing  him  and  the  said  k^tters  when  taken  before  the  king 
and  ('ouncil  to  answer  touching  the  deceits  by  him  practised  in  that 
behalf,  and  to  do  and  receive  what  shall  then  be  ordered,  bringing 
this  writ ;  as  the  king  has  levoked  the  letters  patent  aforesaid,  for 
that  the  said  William  is  abusing  his  commission,  and  oppressing 
great  numbers  of  the  people  by  ransoms  of  them  taken  by  colour 
thereof  and  otherwise,  as  the  king  is  fully  informed. 

By  K.  on  the  information  of  the  steward  of  the  household. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne. 

The  mayor  and  bailiflfs  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Lenne. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Jernemutli. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Donewic. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Horwell. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Maldon. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Colecestre. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Gippewic. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  York. 

The  sheriff  of  York. 

The  sheriff  of  Lincoln. 

13(38.  Membrane  2d. 

Writing  of  Pascal  de  Guataire  in  Spain  and  Peter  Arnald  de  Mandyez 
citizen  of  Bayoun,  reciting  that  he  the  said  Pascal  and  John  de  Blaye 
of  St.  Sebastiane  in  Spain  at  sea  in  a  ship  whereof  they  were  owners 
were  by  a  tempest  driven  upon  the  coast  of  the  bishop  of  St.  David 
in  Wales,  and  being  in  peril  of  their  lives  and  of  the  loss  of  the  said 
ship  caused  it  to  be  published  in  the  lordship  of  the  said  bishop  that 
if  any  would  bring  the  said  ship  safe  to  port  they  should  have  the 
moiety  thereof,  by  virtue  whereof  the  said  bishop's  ministers  at  their 
own  cost  by  great  force  of  men  and  boats  haled  the  said  ship  a  great 
way  safe  to  port  within  the  said  lordship  ;  that  thereupon  the  said 
ministers  caused  them  the  said  Pascal  and  John  to  be  indicted  and 
impeached  for  divers  alleged  crimes  and  trespasses  committed  within 
the  said  lordship,  by  colour  whereof  they  did  them  great  villainy 
and  hurt,  keeping  to  themselves  the  whole  ship  without  answering 
or  making  recompense  for  any  part  thereof,  for  \A'hich  damages  and 
wrongful  detinue  he  the  said  Pascal,  for  himself  and  his  partner  the 
said  John,  in  their  joint  names  made  plaint  to  the  king  and  the  chan- 
cellor of  England  by  bill  against  the  said  bishop  and  his  said  ministers, 
for  \\liich  wrongdoings  the  said  bishop  justified  liimself  ;  and  that  by 
mediation  and  appointment  of  lords  and  true  men,  for  peace  and 
to  discharge  his  conscience,  the  said  bishop  has  made  full  recompense 
to  him  the  said  Pascal,  for  himself  and  the  said  Jolin,  wherefore  they 
the  partners  of  the  said  ship  have  pardoned  and  released  to  him  and 
to  his  said  ministers  and  men  all  actions  real  and  personal,  and  all 
claims  and  impeachments  by  reason  of  the  said  ship,  the  evildoings 


408  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1353^  Membrane  2d — cont. 

of  the  said  ministers  or  otherwise,  AviUing  and  granting  that  the  ship 
with  all  its  gear  shall  remain  as  it  is  awarded  with  the  said  ministers 
to  Adam  the  said  bishop,  his  hens  and  executors,  without  impeach- 
ment of  them  or  either  of  them  or  of  any  other  m  their  name,  and 
binding  themselves  to  warranty  thereof  accordingly  ;  and  for  greater 
security  he  the  said  Pascal,  for  himself  and  his  said  partner,  has  found 
the  said  Peter  Arnald  to  be  his  surety  that  these  covenants  shall  be 
kept,  and  that  the  said  John  de  Blaye  shall  keep  and  observe  all  the 
matters  above  rehearsed  ;  and  he  the  said  Peter  Arnald  undertakes 
that  the  same  shall  be  so  kept  and  fulfilled,  but  if  peradventure  any 
men  of  Wales  or  England  shall  in  time  to  come  make  claim  or  demand 
against  the  said  bishop  or  his  ministers  for  the  said  ships  and  gear,  he 
the  said  Peter  shall  not  by  reason  of  these  presents  be  bound  in  aught 
against  men  of  Wales  or  England.  Dated  London,  7  January 
41  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Pascal  and  Peter 
in  the  chancery  at  London,  9  January. 

Writing  of  Jakes  de  Essars  burgess  of  Roan,  a  hostage  in  England 
for  the  king  of  France,  being  a  recognisance  and  bond  to  Thomas  de 
Brandon  citizen  of  London  in  14  marks  for  a  jDrest  to  him  made  at 
London,  promising  to  pay  that  sum  to  the  said  Thomas  or  to  his 
attorney  beaiing  this  bond  at  his  lodging  at  London,  to  ^v\t  one 
moiety  at  Candlemas  next  and  the  other  at  Easter  following,  binding 
all  his  goods  as  well  this  side  as  over  sea,  and  willing  that  he  may  be 
distrained  as  if  no  hostage,  and  that  his  privilege  may  not  avail 
against  payment,  and  if  he  be  exchanged  again  that  his  letter  of 
acquittance  and  passage  be  in  the  hand  of  the  chancellor  of  England 
until  payment  be  made  with  costs.  Dated  London,  31  December 
1367.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Westminster,  13  January. 

Jan.  15.         John  Trippe  of  Marlebergh  to  Thomas  Hungerford.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for    26/.,    to   be   levied,    in   default   of   payment,    of   his   lands   and 
chattels  in  Wyltes. 

Jan.  18.         John  de  Wyghton  and  John  Galon  of  Great  Walsyngham  to  Queen 

Westminster.  Philippa.     Recognisance  for  100  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Norffolk. 

Cancelled  on  'payment,   acknowledged  by  Richard  de  Raveneser  late 

the  said  queen's  treasurer  and  John  de  Blockele  auditor  of  her  accounts. 

Writing  of  William  de  Okbourne  in  Kent,  being  a  grant  and  quit- 
claim to  Simon  de  Biu-gh,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Vieleston 
and  all  lands  sometime  of  John  de  Vieleston  grandfather  of  the  said 
WilHam  in  the  town  of  Shorham  co.  Kent,  with  warranty  of  a  third 
part  of  the  lands  of  the  said  manor  and  of  other  lands  held  by 
knight  service,  also  of  a  sixth  part  of  the  said  manor  and  of  other  lands 
held  in  '  gavelkynde.'     Dated  Shorham,  12  March  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  24  January. 

Membrane  id. 

Indenture  made  between  the  king  of  the  one  part  and  Nicholas 
Roos  warden  of  the  hall  of  the  king's  scholars  in  the  university  of  Cante- 
brigge  of  the  other  part,  witnessing  that  the  said  Nicholas  has  received 


41    EDWARD    TTT.  409 


1;J()(S.  ,  Membrane  Id — cont. 

by  the  hands  of  Wilhani  do  W'ikhatn  bLshop  of  Winchester  the  chan- 
cellor a  Corpus  of  Civil  Law,  to  wit  live  books,  one  Code,  Old  Digest, 
New  Digest,  '  For,'«i(l,^  and  '  Pvtitvolym'  which  the  king  lias  given  to 
remain  for  ever  in  the  said  house  under  the  keeping  of  the  warden 
thereof  for  the  time  being,  the  use  whereof  it  is  the  king's  will  that 
Walter  de  Herford  scholar  of  the  said  house  sliall  have  for 
his  learning  so  long  as  he  shall  abide  a  scholar  there,  and  as  soon  as 
he  shall  depart  thence  the  books  shall  be  given  by  the  warden  as  he 
shall  think  best  to  other  scholars  of  that  house  who  are  too  poor  to  be 
by  themselves  or  tht^r  friends  provided  with  such  books,  while  they 
shall  there  abide,  provided  always  that  the  books  shall  not  be  aliened 
nor  eloigned  from  the  said  house.  Dated  Westminster,  20  January 
41  Edward  III.     French. 

Jan.  24.  To  John  Knyvet  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hold  pleas 
Westminster,  before  the  king.  Order  for  particular  causes  to  stay  until  further 
order  the  taking  of  an  inquisition  between  the  king  and  the  prior  of 
Newenham  touching  a  maintenance  in  that  priory  to  be  granted  by 
the  said  prior  and  the  convent  to  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  his 
request.  By  K. 


(410) 


42  EDWARD  III. 


1368.  Membrane  27. 

Jan.  30.  To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Wyltes,  Oxfordshire  and  Berk- 

Westminster,  shire.  Order  to  cause  Thomas  Waryn  and  EUzabeth  his  wife,  daughter 
and  heir  of  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  de  Sancto  Omero  tenant 
in  chief,  to  liave  seisin  of  the  lands  of  her  said  mother  held  by  Thomas 
de  Sancto  Omero  at  his  death  of  her  heritage  by  the  courtesy  of 
England  ;  as  the  said  Elizabeth,  whom  Thomas  Waryn  with  the 
king's  licence  has  taken  to  wife,  has  proved  her  age  before  Roger 
de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Norffolk,  and  the  king  has  taken  her  said 
husband's  fealty. 

Jan.  30.  To   Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Norffolk.     Order  to  deliver 

Westminster,  to  Thomas  Waryn  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  her  purparty  of  the  lands 
of  Thomas  de  Sancto  Omero  in  his  bailiwick,  according  to  a  partition 
by  the  escheator  made  ;  as  lately  upon  the  finding  of  an  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  Thomas  de  Sancto  Omero,  who  at  his 
death  held  a  sixth  part  of  the  manor  of  Staunton  FitzWaryn 
CO.  Wyltes  in  chief  by  knight  service  in  right  of  Margaret  late  his  wife 
by  the  courtesy  of  England  by  reason  of  issue  between  them  begotten, 
was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  tee  of  divers  lands  in  that  bailiwick 
not  held  of  the  king,  and  that  Alice  wife  of  William  de  Hoo  of  full  age, 
daughter  of  the  said  Thomas  by  Parnell  his  first  wife,  and  the  said 
Elizabeth  his  daughter  by  the  said  Margaret  his  second  wife,  being 
within  age,  were  his  next  heirs,  the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to 
make  partition  of  the  lands  of  the  said  Thomas  in  the  king's  hand  by 
liis  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  Elizabeth,  in  presence 
as  well  of  Thomas  Cheyne,  to  whom  the  king  committed  the  wardship 
of  the  said  Elizabeth's  purparty  to  hold  until  her  lawful  age,  or  of  his 
attorney,  as  of  the  said  William  and  Alice,  and  not  to  meddle  further 
with  the  purparty  of  the  said  Alice,  delivering  to  the  said  Thomas 
Chejme  the  purparty  of  the  said  Elizabeth  ;  and  the  said  Elizabeth, 
whom  the  said  Thomas  Waryn  has  with  the  king's  licence  taken  to 
wife,  has  proved  her  age  before  the  escheator. 

Feb.  11.  To  PhiUp  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  Salop.     Order  to  cause  James 

Westminster,  son  of  Margaret  w  ho  was  wife  of  John  Pype  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage, 
one  carucate  of  land  and  8s.  of  rent  in  Fayntre  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  said  Margaret's  death,  saving  to  the  king  the  issues  thereof 
taken ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  the  said  Margaret  at  her  death  lield  the  premises  in  her  demesne 
as  of  fee  in  chief  by  the  service  of  rendering  45.  a  year  at  the  exchequer 
by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff,  and  of  doing  suit  at  the  county  court  from 
month  to  month,  that  the  said  James  is  her  next  heir  and  is  of  the 
age  of  24  years  and  upwards,  that  the  premises  have  been  in  the  king's 
hand  since  her  death,  who  died  3  November  in  the  35th  year  of  his 
reign,  and  that  answer  has  been  made  concerning  the  issues  and  profits 
thereof  by  her  hands  of  the  escheator  ;  and  tlie  king  has  taken  the 
fealty  of  the  said  James. 

Jan.  30,  To  John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Bedfordsliire  and  Huntingdonshire. 

Westminster.  Order  to  take  the  fealty  of    Katherine  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  Den- 

gayne  knight  according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  not 


42    EDWARD    III. 


411 


18()8.  Membrane  27 — cont. 

to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Saundeye,  the  advowson  of  a 
chantry  in  the  church  of  Saundeye  co.  Bedford  and  the  manor  of 
G^'ddyng  co.  Huntingdon  taken  into  the  king's  liand  by  tlie  death 
of  the  said  Thomas,  dchverins.';  to  th(i  said  Kathcrin(i  any  issues  tliereof 
taken  ;  as  the  king  lias  learned  by  in((uisition,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  Thomas  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  those  counties  in  chief  in 
his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his 
licence  held  the  premises  jointly  with  the  said  Kathorine  of  the  gift 
of  Thomas  de  Stratton  parson  of  Blatherwyk  and  Thomas  de  Stanes 
paison  of  Upmynstrc  to  them  and  the  lieirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that 
the  same  are  held  in  chief  by  the  scnvice  of  being  the  king's  hunter  to 
chase  and  destroy  all  vermin,  namely  wolves,  foxes  and  wild  cats. 


Jan.  30.  To  John  de  Olnej^e  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire  and  Huntingdon- 

Westminster,  shire.  Order  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  and  advowson  of 
Cotes  CO.  Cantebrigge,  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Grofham  and  the 
manor  of  Dylyngton  co.  Huntingdon  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the 
death  of  Thomas  Dengayne  knight,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  the  said  Thomas  long  before  his  death  aliened  the  manor  and 
advowson  of  Cotes  to  John  Knyvet,  Nicholas  Styuecle,  John  Dengayne 
the  elder  and  Walter  Lasseles  and  their  heirs,  the  manor  and  advowson 
of  Grofham  and  the  manor  of  Dylyngton  to  the  said  John  Knvyet, 
Nicholas  and  Walter,  William  Bolle  and  Robert  Wareyn  and  their 
heirs,  and  that  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Cotes  are  held  of  the  king 
by  knight  service  as  of  the  honour  of  Boulogne,  the  residue  of  the 
premises  of  others  than  the  king  ;  and  in  the  statute  published  at 
Westminster  in  the  first  year  of  the  reign  it  is  contained  (among  other 
things)  that  no  man  shall  be  troubled  by  reason  of  acquiring  lands 
held  of  the  king  as  of  an  honour. 

Jan.  30.  To  William  atte  More  escheator  in  Leycestershire.  Order  not  to 
Westminster,  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Halughton  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  Thomas  Dengayne,  delivering  to  John  Knyvet, 
Nicholas  de  Styuecle,  John  Engayne  the  elder  and  Walter  Lasseles 
any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Thomas  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in 
that  county  in  chief  nor  of  any  other  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  long 
before  his  death  by  charter  enfeoffed  the  said  John  Knyvet  and  the 
others  named  of  the  said  manor  to  them  and  their  heirs,  and  that  the 
same  is  held  of  the  king  as  of  the  honour  of  Peverell  ;  and  in 
the  statute  etc.  {as  the  last). 

To  Richard  de  Wydevylle  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.  Order 
not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of  Blatherwyk  and  Laxton  and 
the  advowson  of  Blatherwyk  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  Thomas  Engayne  knight,  delivering  to  Katherine  late  his  wife  any 
issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by 
the  escheator,  that  the  said  Thomas  at  his  death  held  the  premises  in 
fee  tail  jointly  with  the  said  Katherine  by  charter  thereof  granted  to 
them  with  the  king's  licence,  and  that  the  manor  of  Laxton  is  held 
in  chief  as  of  the  crown  by  the  service  of  finding  at  his  own  cost  running 
hounds  to  destroy  wolves,  foxes,  cats,  wild  cats  {murilegos,  catos)  and 
other   vermin  in    the  counties   of    Norhampton,   Roteland,    Oxford, 


412 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1368.  Membrane  21—cont. 

Essex,  Huntingdon  and  Bukingham  within  liberties  and  without,  and 
the  manor  of  Blatherwyk  of  others  than  the  king  ;  and  the  king  has 
commanded  the  fealty  of  the  said  Katherine  to  be  taken  by  John  de 
Olneye  escheator  in  Bedfordshire  and  Huntingdonshire. 

To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Essex.  Order  not  to  meddle 
further  with  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Colne  Engayne  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Thomas  Dengayne  knight,  delivering 
to  Katherine  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Thomas 
at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as 
of  fee,  but  held  the  said  manor  and  advowson  jointly  with  the  said 
Katherine  of  the  gift  of  Thomas  de  Stratton  parson  of  Blatherwyk 
and  Thomas  de  Stanes  parson  of  Upmenstre  to  them  and  the  heirs 
of  their  bodies,  and  that  the  same  are  not  held  of  the  king. 

To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Essex  and  Hertfordshire. 
Order  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of  White  Nottele 
CO.  Essex  and  Hunsdon  co.  Hertford  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
the  death  of  Thomas  Dengayne  knight,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  divers  inquisitions,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  the  said  Thomas  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  those 
counties  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  long  before  his  death 
enfeoffed  John  Knyvet  knight,  Nicholas  de  Styuecle  and  Walter 
Lascels  and  their  heirs  of  the  manor  of  White  Nottele  and  the  said 
John,  Nicholas  and  Walter,  William  Belle  clerk  and  Robert  Waryn  and 
their  heirs  of  the  manor  of  Hunsdon,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of 
others  than  the  king. 

Feb.  \.  To  Adam  de  Hertyngdon  clerk  of  the  king's  works  at  Wyndesore. 

Westminster.  Order  to  cause  a  piece  of  land  under  Wyndesore  castle  called  Lidecroft, 
which  the  king  has  appointed  to  be  newly  imparked,  to  be  enclosed 
with  a  ditch  and  hay  by  vieAv  and  testimony  of  John  de  Rouceby  the 
king's  clerk  controller  of  the  said  works,  Robert  Hertley,  Nicholas 
Bernard,  John  le  Payntour,  and  Richard  de  Teynton  surveyors 
thereof.  By  K. 

Membrane  26. 

Feb.  15.  To  tha  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  dis- 

Westrainster.  charge  Reynold  de  Sholdham  of  the  office  of  searcher  of  the  king's 

forfeitures  in  the  port  of  London  from  the  feast  of  St.  Clement  last ; 

as  at  the  king's  command  he  gave  up  on  that  day  to  be  cancelled  in 

chancery  the  king's  letters  patent  committing  to  him  that  office. 


Feb.  5.  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order,  if  assured 

Westminster,  by  inquisition  or  otherwise  that  a  messuage  in  Selby,  held  by  Hugh 
Fissh  of  Selby  outlawed  for  felony,  is  the  toft  in  Selby  specified  in  a 
certificate  of  the  escheator,  and  that  the  said  Hugh  at  the  time  the  said 
felony  was  committed  had  no  other  messuage  or  toft  in  the  said  town, 
to  remove  the  king's  hand  and  dehver  the  same  to  the  abbot  of  Selby  ; 
as  lately  the  king  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  sheriff,  that 
the  said  messuage  was  in  his  hand  a  year  and  a  day,  that  the  said 
Hugh  held  it  of  the  said  abbot,  and  that  Wilham  de  Reygate  late 
escheator  had  the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste  and  ought  to  answer 


42    EDWARD    TTT. 


in 


2;]()(^_  Membrane  20 — cont. 

to  the  king  for  the  same,  and  ordoicd  the  sheriff  to  cause  the  said 
abbot  to  have  seisin  thereof  ;  anfl  aft(M'  at  the  suit  of  the  said  abbot, 
alleging  that  the  eseheator  likewise  took  the  premises  into  the  king's 
hand  by  reason  of  the  same  felony,  the  king  ordered  the  eseheator 
to  certify  in  chanc^ery  the  cause  wherefore  he  so  took  the  same,  and 
he  certified  that  he  took  it  not,  but  that  at  the  time  of  his  succession 
to  that  oftice  the  said  AMUiam  delivered  to  him  by  indenture  a  toft 
in  Selby  which  was  of  the  said  Hugh  outlawed  for  felony  at  suit  ot 
the  king,  avei"ring  that  it  was  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  that 
outlaAvry  and  for  that  the  said  abbot,  of  whom  it  was  held  by  fealty, 
sued  not  his  right  out  of  the  king's  hand,  which  toft  was  built  upon 
and  by  reason  of  the  said  felony  was  wasted  ;  and  thereupon  the  abbot 
has  petitioned  for  removal  of  the  king's  hand  and  for  livery  of  the 
said  toft.  It  is  the  king's  will  that  the  eseheator  be  thereof  dis- 
charged toward  him. 

Feb.  20.  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  eseheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order,  if  assured 

Westminster,  by  inquisition  or  otherwise  that  two  messuages  in  York,  one  in  Ouse- 
gate  and  one  in  Conyngestrete,  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand  are 
the  same  messuage  and  shop  comprised  in  the  king's  licence  of  27 
October  in  the  6th  year  of  his  reign,  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and 
not  to  meddle  further  therewith,  delivering  any  issues  thereof  taken 
to  William  de  Wandysford  of  York  ;  as  on  the  day  aforesaid  the  king 
by  letters  patent  gave  licence  in  mortmain  to  Thomas  Durant  of  York 
to  give  and  assign  to  a  chaplain  and  to  his  successors  a  messuage, 
a  shop  and  18.s.  of  rent  in  York  to  celebrate  divine  service  every  day 
in  the  church  of  St.  Crux  in  Fossegate  York  for  the  souls  of  the  said 
Thomas,  Ellen  his  wife,  John  ¥?ovy  the  elder,  John  Bovy  the  younger 
and  their  ancestors  and  of  the  faithful  departed,  and  to  the  said  chap- 
lain licence  to  receive  and  hold  the  premises  ;  and  after  learning  on 
behalf  of  the  said  William  de  Wandesford,  now  tenant  of  the  premises 
by  demise  of  the  chaplain  of  the  said  chantry,  that  the  eseheator  for 
particular  causes  took  the  premises  into  the  king's  hand,  the  king 
ordered  him  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  he  took  the 
same,  and  he  returned  that  he  found  by  inquisition,  before  him  taken 
of  his  office,  that  the  said  Thomas  gave  to  a  chantry  in  the  said  church 
the  two  messuages  above  mentioned,  which  are  held  of  the  king  in 
burgage  ot  the  city  of  York,  that  the  said  chantry  has  been  withdrawn 
for  eighteen  years  past,  that  Joan  w  ho  was  wife  of  Roger  Normanville 
and  the  said  William  have  all  that  time  taken  the  profits  of  those 
messuages,  which  are  worth  20.s.  a  year,  and  that  foi'  this  cause  he 
took  them,  and  they  are  in  the  king's  hand  ;  and  now  the  said  William 
has  petitioned  the  king  for  removal  of  his  hand  from  the  messuage 
and  shop  so  taken  under  the  name  of  two  messuages,  together  with 
the  issues  thereof  taken,  since  they  are  the  same  comprised  in  the  said 
licence,  as  he  is  ready  to  aver. 

Jan.  28.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  York  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  Geoffrey  Randolf,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Feb.  15.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Westmorland  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  William  de  Crakanthorp,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Feb.  5.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  John  de  Stanlowe,  who  is  dead. 


414 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


23gg_  Membrane  26 — cont. 

Eeb.  15.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Oxford  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  John  Say,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Eeb.  10.  To  John  de  Erpeston  and  John  Prentys  late  bailiffs  of  the  city 

Westminster,  of  Lincoln.  Order,  of  the  king's  favour,  to  restore  to  Maurice  Maikyn 
of  Lincoln  clerk,  unless  lie  was  a  fugitive,  his  goods  and  chattels  [taken] 
into  the  king's  hand  ;  as  the  said  Maurice  was  before  Thomas  de  Ingelby 
and  John  Cavendyssh,  justices  for  gaol  delivery  at  Lincoln,  lately 
indicted  for  divers  felonies,  and  at  the  request  of  J.  bishop  of  Lincoln 
was  by  them  delivered  to  him  according  to  the  benefit  of  clergy,  and 
has  purged  his  innocence  before  Master  William  de  Thynghill  the  said 
bishop's  oflicial  and  Peter  de  Dalton  his  commissary,  as  the  bishop 
has  signified  to  tlie  king. 

The  like  writ  word  for  word  to  the  said  late  bailiffs  concerning  the 
delivery  of  his  goods  and  chattels  to  John  de  Bliton  knight  of  Lincoln 
clerk. 

Membrane  25. 

Feb.  5.  To  the   sheriff  of  Norhampton.     Order,   for  particular  causes,   of 

Westminster,  the  issues  of  his  bailiwick  to  cause  GOO  sheaves  of  arrows  in  places 
where  he  shall  see  best  to  be  made  and  purveyed  of  seasoned  and  not 
of  green  wood,  as  he  will  answer  it  before  the  king,  and  to  be  fitted 
with  steel  heads  to  the  pattern  of  the  iron  head  which  shall  be 
delivered  to  him  on  the  king's  behalf,  sending  the  same  to  the  Tower 
of  London  before  Midsummer  next  there  to  be  delivered  to  John  de 
Sleford  the  king's  clerk,  keeper  of  his  wardrobe  in  the  said  Tower, 
knowing  assuredly  that,  if  the  same  be  not  made  of  seasoned  wood, 
the  king  will  charge  him  with  the  cost  over  and  above  the  punishment 
he  will  inflict. 

[Feeder  a.] 

The  like  to  the  sheriff  of  Bedford  and  the  sheriffs  of  24  other  counties, 
every  sheriff  for  600  sheaves. 

[Ibid.] 

Feb.  18.  To  Queen  Philippa's  bailiffs  of  Laigle  in  Sussex.      Order  at  their 

Westminster,  peril  to  content  for  their  pains  all  those  who  salved  the  goods  and 
merchandise  in  a  ship  called  la  Marie  of  Santander  according  to  the 
statute,  and  then  to  cause  the  said  goods  to  be  fully  restored  to  the  mer- 
chants ;  as  Bernard  de  Provana  and  Bartliolomew  Matseferra,  alleging 
that  they  are  attorneys  of  the  said  merchants,  have  shewn  the  king 
that  the  said  ship  was  by  a  storm  broken  and  lost  upon  the  sea  coast 
in  that  bailiwick,  that  certain  merchandise  of  theirs  therein  was  salved 
at  the  town  of  Brydlyng  in  the  said  bailiwick  by  men  of  those  parts, 
and  that  though  divers  seamen  and  other  men  in  the  ship  came  safe  to 
land,  wherefore  the  same  ought  not  to  be  called  wreck,  the  said  bailiffs 
have  arrested  that  merchandise  to  the  queen's  use  as  her  wreck,  refus- 
ing to  deliver  tlie  same  to  the  said  attorneys,  though  they  are  ready 
to  content  those  who  laboured  at  the  salvage  thereof  for  their  pains, 
wherefore  they  have  prayed  for  restitution.  By  C. 

The  like  to  the  bailiff's  of  Bourne  in  Sussex  of  Thomas  de  Roos, 
concerning  the  delivery  of  goods  and  merchandise  arrested  at  Bourne. 

Feb.  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  Somerset.     Order  to  deliver  the  manor  of  Hasel- 

Westniinster.  bere   to  Ingelram  de  Coucy  earl  of  Bedford  and  to  Isabel  his  wife  the 

king's  daughter,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since  1  October 


42    EDWARD    III. 


416 


lJ^f)^^  Memhrayie  25 — cont. 

last ;   as  on  tliat  day  tlie  kinjf  by  letters  pat(;nt  granted  the  said  manor 
to  them  and  tlic  heu.s  male  of  their  bodies.     It  is  the  king's  will  that 
the  sheriff  be  thereof  discharged  toward  him. 
The  like  to  the  folkn\ing  : 

John   de    Evesham    escheator   in   AViltes  concerning   the   manor 

of  Somerford  Keynes. 
John    de    Tye    escheator    in    Kent    concerning    the  manors    of 
Tiem^orth  and  Van  and  \0l.  of  rent  in  the  suburb  of  Canter- 
bury. 

Feb.  8.  To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Essex.     Order  to  take  the  fealty 

Westminster,  of  Cicely  wife  of  John  de  Bohun  of  Midhurst  according  to  the  form  of 
a  schedule  enclosed,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors 
of  Little  Badewe  and  KcUevedon  and  the  advowson  of  Badewe  afore- 
said taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  said  John's  death,  delivering 
to  her  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  divers 
inquisitions,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John  at  his  death 
held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  nor  of  any  other  in  his  demesne 
as  of  fee,  but  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his  licence  held  the 
premises  jointly  A\ith  the  said  Cicely  by  grant  of  Richard  Laxman, 
Richard  le  Graunt  and  Simon  de  Sutton  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their 
bodies,  and  that  the  manor  of  Kellevedon,  20  acres  of  land  and  3  acres 
of  ineadow  excepted,  is  held  in  chief  as  of  the  honour  of  Dovorre 
by  the  service  of  rendering  305.  yearly  to  the  ward  of  Dovorre  castle, 
the  said  land  and  meadow  and  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Badewe  of 
others  than  the  king. 

Feb.  8.  To  John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.     Order  not  to 

Westminster,  meddle  further  with  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Great  Craule  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  de  Bohun  of  Midhurst, 
delivering  to  Cicely  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John  at 
his  death  held  no  land  in  that  county  in  chief  nor  of  any  other  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  manor  and  advo\^'son  jointly  with 
the  said  Cicely  of  the  gift  of  Richard  Laxman,  Richard  le  Graimt  and 
Griffin  de  Sutton  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  the 
same  are  not  held  of  the  king. 

Feb.  8.  To   the  sheriff  of  Wiltes.     Order  of    the  issues  of   his  bailiwick  to 

Westminster,  cause  the  defects  of  walls,  turrets,  houses  and  other  buildings  of  Old 
Sarum  castle  to  be  repaired  where  most  need  is  up  to  40^.  by  view  and 
testimony  of  Thomas  Erlestoke  ;  as  such  defects  are  many  and  in 
sore  need  of  repair  as  the  king  has  learned.  The  king  has  commanded 
Alan  de  Bokeshull  keeper  of  the  forest  of  Claryndon  and  his  repre- 
sentative there  to  cause  timber  to  be  delivered  to  the  sheriff  for  the 
purpose,  namely  six  oaks  in  Claryndon  park,  four  oaks  in  Melchet 
park,  and  36  oaks  in  the  forest  of  Grovele.  By  K. 


To  Alan  de  Bokeshull  keeper  of  the  forest  of  Claryndon  or  to  his 
representative  there.  Order  to  cause  timber  (as  above)  to  be  delivered 
to  the  sheriff"  of  Wiltes  ;  as  the  king  has  ordered  him  to  cause  the 
defects  of  Old  Sarum  castle  to  be  repaired  etc.  {as  above).  By  K, 


416  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1368.  Membrane  24.  . 

Feb.  6.  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Cumberland.     Order  to  cause 

Westminster.  Tliomas  son  of  Robert  de  Raghton  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage  and 
20  acres  of  land  in  Raghton  wliich  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  tlie  said  Robert,  but  not  to  meddle  further  with  divers  other  lands 
likewise  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death,  delivering  up  any 
issues  of  these  last  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  Richard  de  Denton  late  escheator,  that  John  de  Raghton 
(sic)*,  who  died  3  October  in  the  23rd  year  of  the  reign,  at  his  death 
held  the  said  messuage  and  land  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  in  chief  by 
the  service  of  rendering  to  tlie  king  15s.  5\d.  a  year  at  Michaelmas 
for  the  whole  year  by  the  hands  of  the  slieriff  at  the  exchequer  of 
Karliol  for  all  services,  and  divers  other  lands  of  others  than  the  king, 
and  that  Thomas  son  of  tlie  said  Robert  is  next  heir  of  the  said  Robert, 
and  at  the  death  of  Robert  liis  father  was  of  the  age  of  three  years  ;  and 
the  king  has  taken  the  fealty  of  the  said  Thomas. 

Feb.  14.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne 

Westminster,  for  the  time  being.  Order  to  pay  to  John  de  Neville,  son  and  heir  of 
Ralph  de  Neville,  the  arrears  of  11 8L  \2s.  \\\d.  a  year  from  5  August 
last,  and  henceforth  to  pay  him  that  sum  every  year  at  Easter  and 
Michaelmas,  taking  his  acquittance,  according  to  the  king's  letters 
patent  of  16  July  in  the  26th  year  of  his  reign,  granting  in  part  of  a 
yearly  sum  of  120/.  in  exchange  for  the  castle  and  manor  of  the  Ermy- 
tage  in  Scotland  extended  at  that  yearly  value,  which  the  said  Ralph 
gave  to  the  king  and  his  heirs  for  120L  a  year  of  land  and  rent  to  be  by 
the  king  given  to  him  and  his  heirs,  the  reversion  ot  90/.  1 6s.  8c/.  yearly 
taken  of  the  farm  of  the  said  town  by  John  Darcy  deceased  and  his 
heirs  during  the  life  of  Mary  countess  of  Pembroke  by  the  king's 
grant  with  reversion  to  the  king  after  her  death,  and  also  after  the 
decease  of  Richard  de  Denton  the  reversion  of  27s.  0\d.  which  he  was 
bound  yearly  to  pay  at  the  exchequer  of  the  yearly  rent  of  51/.  7s.  0\d. 
issuing  from  the  cornage  of  Cumberland  according  to  the  grant  made 
to  the  said  Ralph  and  his  heirs  after  the  death  of  the  said  Richard, 
who  took  the  said  rent  for  life  of  the  king's  grant,  and  further  granting 
that  he  and  his  heirs  should  take  every  year  120/.  of  the  issues  of  the 
customs  and  subsidies  in  the  said  port,  namely  90/.  16s.  8f/.  thereof 
until  by  the  death  of  the  said  countess  or  otherwise  the  sum  which  the 
said  John  took  as  aforesaid  should  come  to  his  hands,  27s.  0\d.  until 
by  the  death  of  the  said  Richard  or  otherwise  that  sum  of  the  said 
cornage  should  come  to  his  hands,  and  27/.  16s.  3M.  until  by  the 
king  or  his  heirs  provision  should  be  made  to  him  and  his  heirs  of  so 
much  a  year  of  land  and  rent  towards  the  said  exchange  ;  and  after 
on  15  February  in  the  38th  year  of  the  reign,  for  that  the  said  27s.  Ok/, 
of  the  said  rent  of  the  cornage  came  to  the  said  Ralph  by  the  death 
of  the  said  Richard,  who  died  on  Wednesday  after  Palm  Sunday  in 
the  37th  year,  the  king  commanded  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the 
exchequer  to  cause  so  much  to  be  deducted  from  the  yearly  sum 
assigned  to  him  of  the  said  customs  and  subsidies,  allowing  the  same 
as  well  to  the  said  Ralph  as  to  the  collectors  thereof,  delivering  the 
residue  to  him,  making  allowance  thereof  to  the  collectors,  and  dis- 
charging him  at  the  exchequer  of    payment  of    the  same  sum  ;    and 

*  The  inquisition   shews  that  Robert  de  Raghton  died  at  this  date,  and 
that  Thomas  was  his  son  and  heir.  ^ 


42    EDWARD    TTT. 


417 


1308. 


Membrane  24 — cont. 


on  the  finding  of  divers  inquisitions,  taken  at  the  king's  command,  that 
on  5  August  last  the  said  Ralj)h  died,  and  that  the  said  John  his  son 
is  his  next  heir  and  of  full  age,  on  10  October  last  the  king  took  the 
homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  John,  and  commanded  livery  to  bo 
given  him  of  his  said  fatlier's  lands,  and  finther  for  CAH.  by  him  paid 
gave  him  of  the  king's  gift  all  issues  and  profits  of  the  said  lands  since 
the  death  of  his  father. 

Feb.  14.  To  tlie  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  allow 

VVostniinstor.  Stephen  Romylogh  constable  of  Notyngham  castle,  in  his  account  of 
the  issues  of  the  castle,  10/.  for  the  expenses  of  Osbert  Nuttlesson  of 
Denmark  lately  arrested  and  delivered  to  his  custody. 

Feb.  20.  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in   Yorkshire.     Order  not  to 

Westminster,  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Sutton  upon  Derwent  with  its 
member  of  ('ath^\■ayt,  the  manor  of  S(!orby  with  tenements  in  Stayn- 
fordbrigge,  the  manor  of  Kernetby,  and  a  tenement  in  St.  Saviour 
street  York  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Walter  de 
Heselarton  knight,  delivering  to  Eufemia  late  his  wiie  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  lias  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  tlie  said  ^Valter  at  his  death  held  the  premises  jointly 
witli  the  said  Eufemia,  and  that  the  said  tenement  in  York  is  lield 
of  the  king  in  burgage,  the  said  manors  etc.  of  others  than  the  king. 


To  the  same.  Order  to  take  of  Eufemia  who  was  the  ^vife  of 
Walter  de  Heselarton  knight  tenant  in  chief  an  oath  that  she  will 
not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign  her  dower  of  the 
4ands  of  her  said  husband  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death, 
sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

Feb.  10.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  stay 

Westminster,  their  demand  made  by  exchequer  summons  upon  Stephen  Criour  for 
the  farms  of  the  lands  wliich  were  of  the  dean  of  Morteyn,  an  alien  of 
the  power  of  France,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  war 
with  France  and  committed  by  the  king  to  the  said  Stephen  for  a 
set  farm  it  is  said,  and  for  the  arrears  of  the  said  farm  from  1 6  February 
in  the  35th  year  of  the  reign,  thereof  discharging  the  said  Stephen 
and  the  said  dean  according  to  the  form  of  the  peace  with  John  then 
king  of  France  on  that  day  proclaimed  and  of  the  restitution  thereupon 
made,  although  by  reason  of  the  said  war  the  king  lately  took  into 
his  hand  and  keeping  the  houses,  lands  and  possessions  of  men  of 
religion  and  other  aliens  of  the  power  of  France,  committing  the  same 
by  divers  letters  patent  to  the  priors  and  presidents  thereof  and  to 
other  farmers  ;  as  by  the  said  peace  the  king  restored  the  houses  and 
lands  so  taken  \y,-\t\\  the  fees,  advowsons  etc.  thereto  belonging,  and 
commanded  livery  thereof  to  be  given  as  fully  as  they  were  held  before 
being  so  taken  ^\'ithout  thenceforth  rendering  any  farm  to  the  king 
by  reason  thereof,  discharging  such  priors  and  presidents  and  their 
mainpernors  of  their  farm.  Proviso  that  ans\\'er  be  made  to  the 
king  for  the  arrears  (if  any)  of  the  said  farm  from  the  day  the  premises 
were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  until  16  February  aforesaid. 

To  the  same.     General  order  to  discharge  all  and  singular  the  priors, 
keepers  and  farmers  of  houses,  possessions  and  lands  of  men  of  religion 

E  27 


418 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1368. 


Membrane  24 — cont. 


and  other  aliens  of  the  power  of  France  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
as  above  rehearsed  of  their  farms  and  the  arrears  thereof  from 
16  February  aforesaid  ;   with  hke  proviso. 

Feb.  15.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Westmorland  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  William  de  Crakanthorp,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Membrane  23. 

Feb.  7.  To  John  Benet  escheator  in  Gloucestershire  and  the  march  of  Wales 

Westminster,  adjoining.  Order  not  to  meddle  further  with  tlie  lands  held  at  his 
death  by  John  Nerberd  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  the  lieir  of  Hugh 
le  Despenser  tenant  in  chief  late  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  and 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  the  said  John  and  by  reason 
of  the  nonage  of  William  his  son  and  heir  ;  as  the  said  William  son  of 
John,  tenant  by  knight  service  of  the  said  heir,  has  proved  his  age 
before  the  escheator,  and  lately  on  proof  of  the  age  of  Edward  le 
Despenser,  cousin  and  heir  of  the  said  Hugh,  the  king  took  his  homage, 
and  commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  the  lands  of  the  said  Hugh 
his  uncle. 

Feb.  16.  To  Th.  bishop  of  Durham.     Order  to  cause  the  manor  of  Thorp- 

Westminster,  bulmere,  three  messuages  and  six  bovates  of  land  in  Nesbyt  within  the 
said  bishop's  liberty,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Ralph 
de  Bulmere,  together  Avith  the  issues  thereof  taken  by  the  said  bishop 
and  his  ministers  from  10  April  last,  to  be  delivered  to  Queen  Philippa, 
to  whom  on  that  day  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  the  wardship 
of  all  the  said  Ralph's  lands  until  the  lawful  age  of  his  heir  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  by  the  bishop  taken  at  his  command, 
that  the  said  Ralph  at  his  deatli  held  no  lands  within  the  said  liberty 
in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  premises  of  the  lord  of 
Clyfford  by  homage  and  fealty,  and  that  Ralph  his  son  is  his  next  heir, 
and  is  of  the  age  of  one  year  and  upwards. 

To  the  same.  Order  to  remove  the  king's  hand  from  a  messuage 
and  40  acres  of  land  in  Preston  and  Symondset  within  the  liberty 
of  the  bishop  of  Dm'ham,  which  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  the 
death  of  Ralph  de  Bulmere,  suffering  the  prior  of  Durham  to  have 
the  premises  in  name  of  wardship,  as  he  and  his  predecessors 
have  been  used  to  have  such  wardships,  and  delivering  to  the  said 
prior  any  issues  thereof  taken  by  the  bishop  or  his  ministers  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  said  bisliop  at  the  king's 
command,  that  the  said  Ralph  at  his  death  held  no  lands  \\'ithin  the 
said  liberty  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  premises  of 
the  said  prior  by  homage  and  fealty,  and  that  Ralph  his  son  is  his  next 
heir,  and  is  of  the  age  of  one  year  and  up\\-ards. 


Membrane  22. 

Feb.  22.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  York  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of   Geoffrey  Randolph,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

April  4.  To  the  collectors  of  the  petty  custom  in  the  port  of  London.     Order, 

Westminster,  upon  the  petition  of  John  Aubrey  of  London,  to  suffer  him  to  lade 

in  that  port  and,  after  paying  the  customs  thereupon  due,  to  take  over 


42    EDWAIM)    III.  419 


13()8.  Membrane  22 — cont. 

sea  whither  ho  will  twenty  tuns  of  old  wine  so  weak  that  they  are  of 
no  worth  to  sell  in  the  city  of  London  ;  as  the  said  John  has  prayed  the 
king's  liconec  so  to  do,  and  to  make  liis  advantage  thereof,  and  it  is 
Avitnossed  in  eliancery  by  William  del  Strete  the  king's  butler  that 
the  premises  are  true.  By  witness  of  the  butler. 

April  1.  To  the  abbot   and  convent  of  Saint  Victor  in  Kaus  in  France,  and 

Wostminstor.  tlie  piior  of  (ilatford  in  l^]ngland  to  him  subject.  Order  forbidding 
them,  while  Edmund  son  and  heir  of  Roger  de  Mortuo  Mari  earl 
of  March  tenant  in  chief,  founder  and  patron  of  the  priory  of  Clatford, 
is  within  age  and  in  the  king's  wardship,  without  the  king's  special 
Hcence  to  sell  or  otherwise  alien  the  lands,  woods,  trees  etc.  to  the  said 
priory  belonging,  waste  ((h'lnpidnre)  the  goods  thereof,  or  do  or  attempt 
aught  else  which  may  tend  to  the  prejudice  or  hurt  of  the  king  or  ot 
the  said  heir  or  to  the  disherison  of  the  said  priory  ;  as  the  king  is 
informed  tliat  the  said  abbot  and  prior  are  purposing  to  sell  and  alien 
certain  of  the  lands,  A\oods  and  trees  aforesaid,  and  to  waste  the  said 
goods,  which  were  it  suffered  would  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king, 
tlie  hurt  of  the  king  and  the  said  heir,  the  impoverishment  of  the  priory, 
and  the  withdrawal  of  crhantries,  alms  and  works  of  piety  therein 
established  of  old  time  for  the  souls  of  the  king's  lorefathers  and 
of  the  faithful  departed  ;  and  during  the  nonage  of  the  said  heir  the 
king  will  save  harmless  the  rights  and  possessions  of  the  priory,  being 
of  the  said  heir's  patronage,  as  he  is  bound  to  do. 
Et  erat  patens. 

April  28.  To  the  keeper  of  Shirwode  forest,  or  to  his  representative  there. 
Westminster.  Oi'dor  to  deliver  by  indentures  to  John  de  Maunsfeld  the  king's  clerk, 
clerk  of  the  works  by  the  king  aj^pointed  as  well  within  Notyngham 
castle  as  without  in  places  thereto  pertaining,  so  many  trees  in  that 
forest  as  shall  be  needed  for  the  said  works  ;  as  the  king  has  charged 
the  said  clerk  to  purvey  timber  and  other  things  needful  for  the  works. 

April  22.  To  the  sheriff  of  Leycester.  Order  to  cause  James  Belers  to  have 
Westminster,  seisin  of  a  messuage  and  5  acres  of  land  in  Sixteneby,  held  by  Ralph 
son  of  Tsolda  de  Sixteneby  hanged  for  felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  sheriff,  that  the  premises 
have  been  in  his  hand  a  vear  and  a  day  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  that 
the  said  Ralph  held  the  same  of  Ralph  Belers  father  of  the  said  James, 
whose  heir  he  is,  and  that  the  said  James  had  the  year  and  a  day  and 
the  waste,  and  ought  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  same. 

March  20.  To  the  sheriff  of  Notyngham.  Order  to  keep  in  the  king's  hand 
Westminster,  until  tlie  lawful  age  of  William  son  and  heir  of  John  Bardolf  tenant 
in  chief,  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  a  messuage,  four  bovates 
of  land  and  6  acres  of  meadow  in  Shelfordc  held  of  the  said  John  by 
John  Byk  of  Shelforde  outlawed  for  felony  it  is  said,  and  to  cause 
the  prior  of  Shelforde  to  have  seisin  of  two  other  messuages  in  Shel- 
forde lield  by  the  said  John  Byk  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisi- 
tion, taken  by  John  de  Gresley  late  sheriff,  that  the  said  three  messuages 
and  land  have  been  in  his  hand  a  year  and  a  day  and  are  yet  in  his 
hand,  that  John  Byk  held  one  of  them  and  the  land  and  meadow 
aforesaid  of  John  Bardolf  and  the  other  two  of  the  said  prior,  and  that 
Richard  de  Heygham  had  the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste  thereof, 
and  ought  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  same. 


420 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1QQS.  Membrane  2L 

March  16.        To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne. 

Westminster.  Order  to  pay  to  Peter  de  Malo  Lacu  keeper  of  the  town  of  Berewic  upon 
Twede  250  marks  for  the  last  quarter  of  tlie  year  last  past  in  part  of 
the  yearly  fee  by  him  taken  for  keeping  the  same,  taking  his  acquit- 
tance, any  commands  to  tliem  addressed  under  the  king's  privy  seal 
or  under  the  treasurer's  seal  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding.      By  C. 

March  13.  lo  William  de  Bretford  searcher  of  the  king's  forfeitures  in  the 
Westminster,  port  of  London.  Order  upon  the  petition  of  Guy  de  Portu  merchant 
of  Luca  an  alien,  to  cause  a  bale  of  mercery  by  the  said  searcher 
arrested  to  be  dearrested  and  delivered  to  the  said  Guy  to  make  his 
advantage  thereof ;  as  the  searcher  signified  to  the  king  that  he 
arrested  as  forfeit  to  the  king  a  bale  of  mercery  marked  with  the 
mark  of  an  alien  merchant  for  that  the  same  was  taken  out  of  the 
ship  \\'herein  it  was  brought  to  the  port  of  London  by  the  yeoman 
of  a  certain  Lumbard  merchant  enfranchised  in  the  city  of  London 
by  the  king's  charter,  and  without  payment  of  custom  was  put  in  a 
:>  cart  to  be  brought  to  the  said  Lumbard's  house  in  the  said  city,  and 

(  was  marked  Avith  the  said  Lumbard's  mark  ;    and  William  Leeth, 

one  of  the  collectors  of  the  petty  custom  in  the  said  i:>ort,  appearing 
in  chancery  in  presence  of  the  said  searcher  witnessed  that,  before  the 
arrest  of  the  said  bales,  the  said  Guy  appearing  before  the  collectors 
entered  that  bale  in  their  rolls  under  his  own  name  to  content  the 
king  of  the  custom  thereupon  due.  By  C. 

To  the  collectors  of  the  petty  custom  and  the  king's  searcher  in 
the  port  of  London.  Order  to  cause  a  bale  of  striped  cloths  of  Ghent 
in  Flanders  and  tlie  said  cloths  by  them  arrested  to  be  dearrested  and 
delivered  to  John  de  Bures  to  make  his  advantage  tliereof  ;  as  the 
said  collectors  and  searcher  signified  to  the  king  that  tliey  arrested 
as  forfeit  to  the  king  the  said  bale  of  cloths,  brought  in  a  ship  to  the 
said  port  and  marked  with  the  mark  of  an  alien  merchant,  for  that 
without  payment  of  custom  tlie  same  was  taken  out  of  the  ship  and 
put  in  a  cart  to  be  brought  to  the  house  of  a  native  merchant  in  the 
city  of  London  ;  and  John  de  Bures  and  William  de  W^elde  merchants 
of  London,  appearing  in  chancery,  have  made  oath  that  the  cloths 
were  bought  to  the  use  ot  tlie  said  John  in  Flanders  by  his  own  servants 
with  his  money,  and  marked  \\'itli  the  mark  of  a  merchant  of  Flanders 
for  greater  security  touching  the  bringing  thereof  from  Flanders,  and 
that  none  but  he  had  any  share  therein  from  the  time  they  were  so 
bought  on  either  side  the  sea,  and  this  they  took  upon  them  under 
pain  of  forfeiting  the  cloths  if  the  contrary  should  be  found.      By  C. 


March  20.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  dis- 
Westminster.  charge  the  king's  son  Edmund  de  Langele  earl  of  Cantebrigge  at  the 
exchequer  of  a  farm  of  8/.  a  year  for  the  manor  ot  Herlaston  co.  Lincoln 
and  the  members  thereof  during  the  whole  of  his  term  of  ten  years 
therein  ;  as  on  6  May  in  the  38th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  letters 
patent  under  seal  of  the  exchequer  committed  to  the  said  Edmund  the 
keeping  of  the  said  manor,  wdth  Touthorp,  Lundethorp,  Bilton  and 
Manthorp  members  thereof,  the  rents  etc.  thereto  pertaining,  which 
manor  was  of  John  de  Breaux  knight,  and  was  then  in  the  king's 
hand  by  reason  of  a  trespass  by  the  said  John  committed  in  acquiring 
the  same  witliout  the  king's  hcence  of  John  de  Warenna  earl  of  Surrey 


42   EDWARD    TTT. 


421 


1308. 


May  20. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  21 — cont. 


tenant  in  chief  thereof,  and  is  extended  at  8/.  a  year,  to  liold  to  farm 
for  (en  years  fiom  thnt  date  rendering  to  the  kino;  Hi.  a  year  ;  and 
tlie  king  of  his  favour  has  [)ardoncd  ti>e  said  l^]draund  that  yearly 
faini  for  his  wliole  term.  By  K. 

To  Jolin  de  Seotherskelf  eseheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  to  remove 
th(;  kinir's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  witli  a  moiety  of  the  town 
of  Holteby,  restoring  fully  to  the  prior  of  Durham  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  the  king  ordered  the  eseheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the 
cause  wherefore  he  took  tlie  lands  of  tlie  said  prior  in  Holteby  into  the 
king's  hand,  and  he  signified  that  he  found  by  inquisition,  before  him 
taki^i  of  liis  office,  that  the  late  prior  of  Durham,  tenant  in  chief  of 
the  said  moiety  to  him  and  his  successors,  died  about  50  years  past, 
and  that  by  his  death  tlie  king  had  no  profit  tliereof,  and  for  that  cause 
he  took  tlie  same  into  the  king's  hand  ;  and  the  king  considers  that 
cause  insufficient,  for  that  no  temporalities  of  the  prior  and  chapter  of 
Durham  ought  to  be  so  taken  after  the  death  of  any  prior,  nor  used  to 
be  taken  heretofore,  as  the  king  is  assured  of  a  certainty.  By  C 


May  12.  To  the  treasurer  and  tlie  barons  of  the  exchequer.    Order  to  stay 

Westminster,  until  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next  their  demand  made  by  ex- 
chequer summons  upon  the  prior  of  Dunstaple  for  the  value  of  thirteen 
messuages,  three  tofts,  55  acres  3  roods  of  land  and  55.  of  rent  in 
Dunstaple  or  for  tlie  issues  thereof,  that  the  king  being  meanwhile 
more  fully  informed  upon  the  matter  may  order  what  is  his  will ;  as 
lately  at  the  suit  of  tlie  said  prior,  praying  that  the  keeping  of  the 
premises  be  committed  to  him  for  a  rent  of  their  true  value  in  case 
they  ought  to  pertain  to  the  king,  as  he  being  troubled  by  pretext- of 
an  inquisition,  taken  of  his  office  by  John  de  Olneye  eseheator  in 
Bedfordshire,  touching  the  acquisition  ot  the  premises  without  the 
king's  licence,  has  made  divers  answers  to  all  the  articles  in  the  said 
inquisition  contained,  and  the  business  is  pending  without  debate, 
the  king  on  10  July  in  the  40th  year  of  his  reign  by  letters  patent 
committed  the  same  to  the  said  prior  for  the  rent  aforesaid  if  it  should 
be  adjudged  that  they  ought  to  j)ertain  to  the  king  ;  and  the  business 
is  yet  pending  for  debate  before  the  king.  By  G. 

May  18.  To  John  de  Seotherskelf  eseheator  in  Cumberland  (sic).     Order  to 

Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  lordship 
of  the  town  of  Norton  in  le  Dryt  and  divers  tenements  in  the  said 
to\m,  delivering  to  the  abbot  of  St.  Albans  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  lately  ordered  the  eseheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the 
cause  wherefore  he  took  the  manor  of  Norton  by  Burglibrigge  into 
the  king's  hand,  and  the  value  thereof,  and  he  certified  that  he  found 
by  inquisition,  before  him  taken  of  his  office,  that  three  years  past 
AAithout  the  king's  licence  the  prioi-  of  Tynmouth  appropriated  to 
himself  and  his  successors  the  aforesaid  lordship  and  tenements  of  the 
abbot  and  the  convent  of  St.  Albans,  which  are  worth  lOl.  a  year 
in  all  issues,  and  for  that  cause  he  took  the  same  into  the  king's  hand  ; 
and  his  certificate  being  viewed  and  examined,  it  seems  to  the  council 
to  be  insufficient  and  of  none  effect,  for  that  the  priory  of  Tynmouth  is 
a  cell  of  the  said  abbot  and  his  own  house,  who  rules  it  by  one  of  his 
monks  of  his  house  of  St.  Albans  under  name  of  prior  thereof  at  his 
pleasure,  and  no  appropriation  may  be  made  to  such  prior  by  the 


422  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1368i<  Membrane  21 — cont. 

abbot,  especially  as  all  possessions  and  goods  of  the  said  priory  are 
goods  and  possession  of  the  abbot  and  at  his  disposal,  as  the  king  is 
assured  of  a  certainty. 

May  24.  To  John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Middlesex.     Order,  upon  the  petition 

Westminster,  of  John  Triple  of  London,  to  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to 
meddle  further  with  7  acres  of  land  in  the  tOA\n  of  Stebenhithe,  deliver- 
ing to  him  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  said  John  has  shewn  that 
on  the  finding  of  an  inquisition,  before  the  esctlieator  taken  of  his 
office,  that  the  said  John  five  years  past  appropriated  to  himself  in 
severalty  without  the  king's  licence  7  acres  of  land  of  the  common 
ground  in  the  said  town,  which  is  held  in  chief  as  parcel  of  the  barony 
of  the  bishop  of  London,  to  the  hurt  of  all  the  country  and  of  the 
township,  the  escheator  took  the  same  into  the  king's  hand,  praying 
the  removal  of  the  king's  hand  from  the  said  land,  which  is  held  of 
the  said  bishop  and  not  of  the  king  ;  and  after  viewing  the  said 
inquisition  the  king  considers  that  the  land  was  insufficiently  taken. 

May  12.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  and  the  searcher  of  the  king's  forfeitures 

Westminster,  in  the  port  of  Gippewic.  Order  to  cause  as  well  a  ship  called  Skenkewyn 
as  fourteen  dozen  woollen  cloths  of  diverse  colour  by  them  arrested, 
if  the  custom  thereupon  due  be  paid,  to  be  dearrested  and  delivered 
to  William  Jonesson  of  Browershavene  in  Seland  to  do  his  pleasure 
therewith  ;  as  lately  the  king  commanded  the  said  collectors  and 
searcher  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  they  arrested 
*  '  the  said  ship  and  cloths  and  are  detaining  the  same,  and  they  certified 

that  the  said  William  t  while  his  fellows  were  at  another  time  in  the 
said  ship,  which  was  anchored  in  the  said  port,  and  he  was  abiding 
on  shore  for  due  payment  of  the  custom  upon  the  said  cloths,  per- 
ceiving that  at  the  ebb  of  the  sea  they  would  take  the  ship  as  far  as 
the  charmel  of  water  there,  and  that  f  one  Simon  Bukenham  deputy  of 
the  said  collectors  and  searcher,  knowing  nought  thereof,  in  their 
name  arrested  the  ship,  and  so  it  is  kept  under  arrest  until  further 
order  ;   wherefore  the  said  William  has  prayed  for  remedy.  By  C. 

May  12.  To  the  treasurer  and  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order,  if  the  facts 

Westminster,  be  as  hereinafter  stated,  to  discharge  John  Beneyt  escheator  in 
Gloucestershiie  at  the  exchequer  of  the  issues  of  the  manors  of  Clierl- 
ton,  Tettebury,  Chyriton  and  Hamptenet,  and  of  rendering  account 
thereof  from  10  February  in  the  35th  year  of  the  reign,  delivering  the 
said  manors  to  Philippa  who  was  the  wife  of  Roger  de  Mortuo  Mari 
earl  of  March  tenant  in  chief,  according  to  the  grant  and  demise  to 
her  made  by  Isabel  the  king's  daughter  and  the  king's  confirmation 
thereof  ;  as  among  other  lands  which  were  of  the  said  earl,  and  by 
reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir  are  in  the  king's  hand,  granted  by  the 
king  on  the  day  mentioned  to  the  said  Isabel  to  hold  until  the  lawful 
age  of  the  said  heir,  the  king  granted  her  the  manors  aforesaid  ;  and 
the  said  Isabel  by  her  letters  patent  granted  and  demised  the  wardship 
of  all  those  lands  to  the  said  Philippa,  which  grant  and  demise  the 
king  by  his  letters  patent  confirmed  ;  and  now  on  behalf  of  the  said 
Philippa  the  king  has  learned  that  the  said  escheator  in  his  account 
at  the  exchequer  has  charged  himself  with  the  issues  of  the  said  manors 
all  the  time  that  the  said  Philippa  has  had  the  wardship  thereof,  by 
virtue  whereof  she  may  not  take  the  profits  of  the  same,  wherefore  she 
has  prayed  for  remedy. 


42    EDWARD    ITI. 


423 


13()8. 
May  5. 


Membrane  20. 


To  Kdimiiul  Savajifo  escheator  in  Notynf^hamshire.  Order  to 
Wostminster.  remove  llie  king's  liaiul  from  a  toft,  and  one  bovate  of  land  in  Kiikc^by 
n]>on  Asshefekl,  delivering  the  same  to  Robert  de!  Hedelliam  and  fjiKiy 
his  wife,  with  the  issues  thereof  by  him  taken  sinee  27  January  in  the 
17tli  year  of  the  reign  ;  as  Roger  de  Treton  and  Margaret  his  wife  with- 
out the  king's  lietMict'  ar(|Uired  tlie  premises  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  the 
said  Roger  from  Robert  s(m  of  Stephen,  and  tli(^  said  Robert  of  John 
(Jobet,  and  the  said  John  of  John  de  Stuteville  who  held  the  same 
in  ehief,  and  (\ieh  enteied  the  |)remises,  and  on  the  date  above  men- 
tioned by  a  line  with  him  made  by  the  said  Roger  and  Margaret  the 
king  pardoned  those  trespasses,  granting  that  the  said  Roger  and 
Margaret  should  hold  the  ])remises  of  the  king  as  aforesaid  by  the  ser- 
viees  thereof  due  and  aeeustomed  ;  and  the  said  Robert  de  Hedelham 
and  Luey  likewise  without  the  king's  licence  acquired  the  premises  of 
the  said  Roger,  which  by  reason  of  that  trespass  were  taken  into 
the  king's  hand,  and  on  4  November  in  the  31st  year  of  his  reign 
for  Vis.  4:d.  by  them  paid  the  king  by  letters  patent  pardoned  the  said 
Robert  and  Lucy  their  trespass,  granting  that  they  should  have  again 
and  hold  the  premises  as  aforesaid  without  let  of  the  king,  his  heirs, 
justices,  escheators,  sheriffs,  bailiff's  or  ministers  whatsoever ;  and 
after  at  the  suit  of  the  said  Robert  de  Hedelham  and  Lucy,  alleging 
that  the  premises  were  by  John  Moryn  late  escheator  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  for  the  reason  aforesaid,  the  king  by  writ  ordered  the 
escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  under  seal  the  cause  wherefore  they 
were  so  taken,  and  he  certified  accordingly  that  he  knew  not  whether 
the  said  late  escheator  seized  the  same  or  no,  but  that  one  William 
Frothelay  his  predecessor  by  indenture  delivered  to  him  the  premises 
under  the  name  of  a  messuage  and  the  aforesaid  land,  averring  that  the 
same  were  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  trespass  committed  by 
the  said  John  Stuteville  in  aliening  the  same  without  the  king's  licence 
to  John  Gobet,  and  that  they  are  yet  in  the  king's  hand  for  that  cause  ; 
wherefore  the  said  Robert  and  Lucy  have  prayed  the  king  for  remedy. 

July  5.  To  the  justiciary,  chancellor  and  treasurer  of  Ireland  for  the  time 

Westminster,  being.  Oi'der,  as  at  another  time  ordered,  to  summon  before  them 
the  king's  justices  and  Serjeants  and  others  of  his  council  in  Ireland, 
the  guardian  of  the  lands  of  the  heritage  of  the  heir  of  Roger  de  Mortuo 
Mari,  and  all  others  who  ought  to  be  so  summoned,  to  hear  the  plaint 
of  Robert  de  Clynton  knight  and  John  de  Clynton  his  son  and  the 
reasons  and  allegations  to  be  set  forth  as  well  for  the  king  and  the 
said  heii"  as  for  the  said  Robert  and  John,  to  take  information  and 
advice  as  well  by  inquisitions  by  true  knights  and  other  men  of  the 
vicinage  of  Novan  and  Ardsallagh  not  of  any  kinship  or  affinity  with 
the  said  Robert  and  John  nor  suspect,  suborned  nor  otherwise  pro- 
cured, as  by  other  means  as  they  sliall  think  best,  and  to  proceed  further 
to  final  debate  of  the  business,  doing  justice  to  the  parties  according 
to  the  law  s  and  customs  of  Ireland,  so  that  they  proceed  not  to  render- 
ing of  judgment  without  advising  the  king,  certifying  in  the  chancery  of 
England  under  the  king's  seal  used  in  Ireland  the  whole  process  when 
made  and  their  dealing  in  that  behalf  as  well  for  the  king  and  the  said 
heir,  wiio  is  in  his  wardship,  as  for  the  said  Robert  and  John  ;  as  by 
his  writ  under  the  great  seal  of  England  [see  above,  p.  232]  the  king 
commanded  them  to  summon  etc.  (as  before)  to  hear  the  plaint  of  the 
said  Robert  and  John,  to  take  information  and  advice,  to  proceed  to 
final  debate  of  the  business,  and  fmther  to  deliver  by  a  mainprise 


424 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


J35g.  Membrane  20 — cont. 

to  the  said  Robert  and  John  tlie  manors  aforesaid  \vith  the  crop  of 
corn  and  other  issues  tliereof  arising  since  the  death  of  WiUiam  Nongle, 
reciting  an  inquisition  of  10  June  in  the  40th  year  of  the  reign  con- 
cerning the  said  manois,  and  information  given  on  behalf  of  the  said 
Robert  and  John  ;  and  now  by  complaint  on  behalf  of  the  said  Robert 
and  John  it  is  she\Mi  the  king  tliat  by  virtue  of  the  said  command  the 
keeping  of  the  said  manors  was  with  the  assent  of  the  whole  council 
in  Ireland  committed  to  the  said  Robert  and  John,  that  they  were 
in  peaceable  possession  thereof,  and  that  the  justiciary,  chancellor  and 
treasurer  were  ready  to  do  justice  touching  the  business  and  had  begun 
a  process,  but  by  colour  of  another  writ  to  them  addressed  obtained 
in  the  chancery  of  England  at  the  suit  of  certain  enemies  of  the  said 
Robert  and  John,  whereby  command  was  given  for  particular  causes, 
it  is  said,  to  stay  the  further  execution  of  the  king's  first  command, 
they  have  taken  the  said  manors  again  into  the  king's  hand  and  thrust 
out  the  said  Robert  and  John  from  possession  of  the  keeping  thereof, 
deferring  to  proceed  further  in  the  process  so  begun,  wherefore  the 
said  Robert  and  Jolin  have  prayed  for  remedy.  By  C. 

Membrane  19. 

May  15.  To  the  keeper  of  Queen  Philippa's  chace  of  Kyngeswode  co.  Gloucester 

Westminster,  for  the  time  being,  or  to  his  representative  there.  Order,  upon  the 
petition  of  Nicholas  Berkele  knight  and  Cicely  his  wife  presented 
before  the  king  and  council  in  this  parliament,  to  cease  from 
laying  hindrances  upon  them,  suffering  them  without  demand  of 
chiminage  and  other  let  whatsoever  to  have  their  profit  of  the  woods, 
'  gorstes  '  and  sea  coals  within  the  lordship  of  a  moiety  of  the  manor 
of  Bukton  within  the  chace  aforesaid,  as  they  ought  to  have  and  the 
ancestors  of  the  said  Cicely  heretofore  used  to  have  ;  as  their  petition 
shewed  that  the  said  Nicholas  and  Cicely  hold  a  moiety  of  the  said 
manor  in  right  of  the  said  Cicely,  that  they  have  woods,  '  gorstes  '  and 
sea  coals  upon  their  own  soil  to  be  sold  at  their  own  will,  and  that  the 
said  keeper  is  now  newly  hindering  them  so  that  they  may  not  have 
the  profit  thereof  within  their  said  lordship  if  they  pay  not  chiminage 
for  the  same,  though  they  have  and  ought  to  have  such  profit,  and 
though  they  and  the  ancestors  of  the  said  Cicely  had  the  same  time 
out  of  mind  without  paying  chiminage  or  other  custom  until  the  said 
chace  came  to  the  said  queen's  hands,  wherefore  they  prayed  for 
remedy  ;  and  it  is  found  by  certificate  of  the  auditors  of  the  queen's 
accounts  made  in  chancery  at  the  king's  command,  that  upon  search 
of  the  rolls  of  account  of  the  queen's  ministers  in  the  lordship  of  Bristol 
and  the  said  chace  there  is  found  no  answer  made  by  keepers  or  other 
ministers  of  the  chace  concerning  the  profit  of  chiminage  therein. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Membrane  18. 

May  3.  To  the  chancellor  of  Ireland  or  his  representative.     Order,  upon  the 

Westminster,  petition  of  Hugh  le  Despenser  and  Alice  his  wife,  to  deliver  to  them 
the  whole  castle  of  Kilkenny,  five  mills,  5  acres  of  meadow,  a  dovecot, 
16  acres  of  land  and  pasture,  and  the  whole  fishery  of  the  water  opposite 
the  said  castle  in  Kilkenny,  the  manor  of  Dunfert,  the  fishery  of  the 
water,  and  a  mill  there  with  a  dovecot  and  appurtenances,  the  manor 
and  advowson  of  Kendermoy,  the  borough  of  Rosbergoun  with 
appurtenances,  the  manor  of  lUyd  with  appurtenances,  the  scrjeanty 


42  KDWARl)  ITT. 


425 


18()8* 


Membrane  18 — cont. 


of  Overk,  3U.  of  rent  in  Killalo  Moyordioni  w  itii  ai^piiitonances  in  the 
Irao;ht  of  Calian  which  Clement  Of^loein  kni<flit  used  to  pay  for  tlie 
said  lands  in  the  time  of  ()ill)ert  de  Clare  late  lord  there,  tlie  advow- 
son  of  Kalian  by  turns  wlien  void  according  to  a  ))aitition  thereof 
made,  a  messuage  and  three  earueates  of  land  on  the  Hill  of  Kalian 
and  in  tlu^  Iraglit  by  Ka-tlaii,  4/.  of  rent  of  freeholders  in  Castelgonnan, 
KilUryn,  (dassar,  Athmekart,  Fathcly,  Agueiill,  Nywes,  Kilblethin, 
Tomaston  and  elsewhere  in  the  comity  of  Kilkenny,  and  the  third  part 
of  the  royalty  of  the  liberty  of  Kilkenny,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
the  death  of  Aiuie  Ic  Despenser,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken, 
saving  the  relief  due  to  the  king  ;  as  their  petition  shews  that  it  is 
found  by  infiuisition,  taken  by  llichard  Htury  cschcator  in  Ireland 
and  returned  in  the  chancery  of  Ereland,  that  tlic  said  Anne  at  hci' 
death  being  one  of  the  lords  and  pai(;eners  of  the  said  liberty,  held 
the  premises  for  her  life  in  chief  by  the  king's  service  of  the  gift  of 
John  son  of  Peter  de  Hothum  of  iiondeby  knight  made  with  the 
king's  licence,  with  reversion  to  the  said  Hugh  and  Alice  and  to  the 
heirs  of  their  bodies,  praying  that  the  king  would  respite  the  homage 
and  fealty  of  the  said  Hugh,  who  is  over  sea  by  the  king's  licence,  and 
order  the  premises  to  be  rendered  to  him.  By  K. 

May  12.  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Cumberland.     Order  to  cause 

Westminster.  Thomas  son  and  heir  of  Robert  de  Raghton  tenant  in  chief  to  have 

seisin  of  his  father's  lands  ;  as  he  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator, 

and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [27580.] 

May  16.  To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Essex.     Order  to  assign  and 

Westminster,  deliver  to  William  Stighull  and  Constance  his  wife,  late  the  wife  of 
Thomas  atte  Broke  tenant  in  chief,  her  dower  of  the  lands  of  the 
said  Thomas  which  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason 
of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  in  presence  of  Alan  de  Buxhull,  to  whom  the 
kuig  has  committed  the  wardship  of  two  thirds  of  the  said  lands 
until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  heir,  or  his  attorney  if  upon  warning 
he  Avill  attend,  sending  the  assignment  to  be  enioUed  in  chancery. 


May  16.  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order   not   to 

Westminster,  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of  Ilkelay  and  Wylton  in  Pykeryng- 
lyth  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Walter  de  Heslarton 
knight,  10  marks  of  rent  in  the  said  manor  of  Wylton  excepted, 
delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Walter  at  his  death 
held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  fee  simple,  but  lield  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee  the  manors  aforesaid,  the  said  rent  excepted,  of 
others  than  the  king. 

May  6.  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Northumberland.     Order  to 

Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  toft  and 
30  acres  of  waste  land  in  Preston  which  were  held  in  fee  by  Alexander 
de  Preston,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  since  8  July  in  the 
33rd  year  of  the  reign  ;  as  the  king  lately  by  writ  ordered  the  escheator 
to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  the  lands  in  Preston  which 
were  of  Ralph  de  Preston  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  William 
de  Nessefeld  late  escheator,  and  he  returned  that  no  lands  in  Preston 
of  the  said  Ralph  are  in  the  king's  hand  and  in  his  keeping  as  by  the 


426  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1368,  Membrane  18 — cont, 

writ  supposed,  but  that  at  the  time  of  his  succession  to  that  office 
WiUiam  de  Raygate  late  escheator  dehvered  to  him  by  indenture  the 
toft  and  land  aforesaid,  which  the  said  Alexander  at  his  death  held 
in  chief  by  knight  service  as  of  the  fees  of  John  de  Middelton  late  an 
adherent  of  the  Scots  the  king's  enemies  then  in  the  king's  hand,  and 
therefore  the  premises  are  in  the  king's  hand  and  in  the  escheator's 
keeping  ;  and  by  inspection  of  the  rolls  of  chancery  the  king  is  assured 
that  on  the  day  aforesaid  by  letters  patent  he  gave  to  John  de  Stryvelyn 
and  his  heirs  the  homages  and  services  of  freeholders  belonging  to 
the  manors,  lands  and  rents  of  the  said  John  de  Middelton  in  Belsowe, 
Neweland,  Burnton,  Preston,  Warneham,  the  town  of  Newcastle  upon 
Tyne  and  elsewhere  in  Northumberland  as  fully  as  John  de  Middelton 
held  the  same  and  as  they  came  to  the  king's  hands. 

Membrane  17. 

May  22.  To  Robert  de  Thorp  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  the  Bench.     Order 

Westminster,  to  adjourn  to  the  octaves  of  Michaelmas  next,"  in  the  state  they 
now  are  or  ought  to  be  if  the  writs  affecting  the  same  were  returned 
before  them  in  the  said  Bench,  all  pleas  to  be  before  tliem  pleaded  for 
the  octaves  and  quinzaine  of  Trinity  and  the  morrow,  octaves  and 
quinzaine  of  Midsummer,  fixing  the  date  aforesaid  for  the  parties 
prosecuting  such  business,  and  commanding  singular  the  sheriffs  of 
England  to  keep  in  their  hands  until  then  all  writs  hencefor\\'ard 
to  be  by  them  returned  and  then  return  them  ;  as  a  sudden  deadly 
plague  is  anew  increasing  in  the  city  of  London,  and  greater  peril 
is  thereof  shortly  to  be  feared,  for  avoidance  whereof  by  the  assent 
and  at  the  prayer  of  the  nobles  and  others  in  parliament  the  king 
has  ordered  all  pleas  henceforwai'd  pending  to  be  continued  as  afore- 
said. The  king's  will  is  that  the  justices  shall  make  such  process 
upon  writs  so  to  be  returned  as  if  the  days  therein  set  had  been  kept 
without  adjournment  or  delay.  By  K.  and  C.  in  pari. 

The  like  to  John  Knyvet  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to 
hold  pleas  before  the  king. 

To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Like  order  to 
adjourn  to  the  octaves  of  Michaelmas  all  pleas,  accounts  and  other 
business  whatsoever  before  them  pending.  By  K.  and  C.  in  pari. 

- — — —  To  Richard  de  Wydeville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.    Whereas 

lately   upon   the   finding   of  an  inquisition,   taken    by   the  escheator, 

that  Thomas  Dengayne  knight  at  his  death  held  in  his  demesne  as  of 
fee  fourteen  virgates  of  land  and  meadow  and  14s.  4d.  of  rent  in 
Pightesle  with  view  of  frankpledge  there  in  chief  as  of  the  crown  by 
serjeanty  and  by  the  service  of  finding  at  his  own  cost  running  liounds 
to  destroy  wolves,  foxes,  cats,  wild  cats  and  other  vermin  in  Nor- 
hamptonshire, Roteland,  Oxfordshire,  Essex  and  Bukinghamshire, 
as  well  within  parks  as  without,  and  that  Joyce  wife  of  John  de  Gold- 
yngton,  Elizabeth  wife  of  La^\Tence  de  Pabenham  knight  and  Mary 

\Entry  incomplete.] 

Vacated,  because  upon  the  Fine  Boll. 

May  1.  To    WiUiam    atte    More    escheator    in    Leycestershire.      Order   to 

Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage, 

a  mill  and  one  carucate  of  land  in  Croxton,  60s.  of  yearly  rent  in 


42    EmVAHI)    ni.  427 


1308.  Membrane  17 — cont. 

Hanu'lton,  und  ((Mtain  othei-  lands  in  Walton  by  Hanieleote,  extended 
with  the  other  lands  aforesaid  at  20  marks  a  year,  deliverin<^  up  any 
issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
eseheator  that  John  Somervyle  of  Croxton  at  his  d(«ith  held  the 
premises,  and  tliat  William  de  Somervyle  son  of  the  said  John,  aged 
2()  years,  is  his  heir  and  an  idiot  boin  in  idioey  ;  and  by  examination 
of  the  said  William  had  before  the  king  and  council  in  chanceiy  it  is 
clear  that  he  is  compos  mentis  and  of  common  discretion,  wherefore 
it  seems  to  the  council  that  the  warxlshij)  of  those  lands  ought  laot  to 
pertain  to  the  king  by  reason  of  the  idiocy  alleged  against  him. 

May  6.  To  Walter  de  Kclby  eseheator  in  Lincolnshire.     Order  not  to  meddle 

Westminstor.  further  A\'ith  the  castle  and  manor  of  Bitham  and  the  manors  of  (?orby, 
Careby,  Birton,  Repynghale,  Oheyle,  Billesford,  Auburne  and  South- 
wythum  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Rober't  de  Colville, 
delivering  to  Cicely  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  eseheator,  that  the  said 
Robert  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne 
as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  castle  and  manor's  jointly  with  the  said 
Cicely,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

May  12.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.      Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Joan  de 

Westminster.  Farnliam,  if  by  inquisition  or  otherwise  they  may  be  assured  that  a 
woollen  cloth  of  blanket,  arrested  as  forfeit  by  Robert  atte  Forde,  was 
not  exposed  for  sale,  to  cause  the  same  to  be  dearrested  and  delivered 
to  her  ;  as  her  petition  shews  that  on  Easter  eve  last  she  took  the  said 
cloth  to  the  house  of  John  de  Holbech  fuller  to  be  folded  and  pressed 
until  after  the  octaves  of  Easter  to  the  end  it  might  then  be  dyed, 
but  the  said  Robert,  deputy  as  well  of  Peter  Sterre  collector  of  the 
subsidy  due  to  the  king  upon  cloths  for  sale  as  of  William  Hervy 
the  king's  alnager  in  London  and  Middlesex,  pretending  that  the 
cloth  was  not  {sic)  brought  there  to  be  sold,  unlawfully  arrested  the 
same. 

May  9.  To  John  de  Tye  eseheator  in  Sussex.     Order  not  to  meddle  further 

Westminster,  with  the  manor  of  Rustyngton  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the 
death  of  John  de  Bohun  oi  Midhurst  knight,  delivering  up  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
eseheator,  that  the  said  John  de  Bohun  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in 
that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  by 
fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  held  in  fee  tail  the  said  manor,  which 
is  not  held  of  the  king,  of  the  gift  of  Ralph  de  Langele  chaplain  to  the 
said  John  and  Isabel  his  wife  (likewise  deceased)  and  to  the  heirs 
of  their  bodies,  and  that  Joan  de  Lysle  and  Eva  her  sister,  daughters 
of  the  said  John  and  Isabel,  are  their  next  heirs  and  of  full  age. 

Membrane  16. 

May  6.  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  eseheator  in  Cumberland,     Order  to  cause 

Westminster.  John  son  of  John  son  of  Hugh  le  Harpour  to  have  seisin  of  a  piece  of 
land  called  Rawebankes  which  is  a  porpresture  of  Inglewode  and 
is  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  son  of  Hugh  le 
Harpour,  saving  to  the  king  the  issues  thereof  since  his  death  if  they 
ought  to  pertain  to  the  king  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  eseheator,  that  John  son  of  Hugh  at  his  death  held  the 


428 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1368^  Membrane  16 — cont. 

said  land  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  in  chief  by  fealty  and  by  the  service 
of  rendering  12.s.  3^/.  a  year  at  the  exchequer  ot  Karliol  for  all  service, 
and  held  no  other  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  nor  of  any  other,  that 
the  said  John  his  son  is  his  next  heir  and  of  the  age  of  22  years  and 
up\\ards,  and  that  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  the  said  John  son  of  Hugh 
occupied  the  said  land,  taking  the  issues  and  profits  from  his  death, 
who  died  10  October  in  the  23rd  year  of  the  reign,  until  28  October 
in  the  32nd  year,  when  the  king  committed  the  wardship  thereof  to 
Richard  de  Beaulieu  to  hold  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  heir, 
and  he  has  occupied  the  same  from  that  day  ;  and  the  king  has  taken 
the  fealty  of  the  said  John  son  of  John. 

May  26.  To  Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.     Order  to  remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  net  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage  and  20  acres 
of  land  in  Walde  Neuton  which  were  ot  Richard  son  of  William  de  Walde 
Neuton,  delivering  to  Alice  and  Agnes  sisters  of  the  said  Richard  any 
issues  tlxereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  lately  would  be  certified  touching  the 
cause  wherefore  the  escheator  took  the  premises  into  the  king's  hand, 
and  he  certified  that  it  was  found  by  inquisition,  before  him  taken  of  his 
office,  that  William  de  Swyne  formerly  held  a  messuage  and  20  acres 
of  land  there  of  the  grant  and  demise  of  John  de  Dalton  chaplain 
for  a  term  ot  20  years,  rendering  yearly  to  the  said  John  and  his  heirs 
10  marks,  with  power  to  them  to  enter  again  and  peaceably  hold  the 
premises  if  the  rent  should  be  in  arrear  at  any  term,  that  the  said 
William  in  his  life  time  granted  his  estate  therein  to  William  Hillyerd, 
and  that  for  default  of  payment  of  the  said  rent  Nicholas  Mareshall 
of  Walde  Neuton,  cousin  and  heir  of  the  said  John,  in  the  life  time  of 
William  de  Swyne  entered  and  held  the  premises,  and  after  enfeoffed 
the  said  Richard,  Alice  and  Agnes,  and  that  the  promises  are  not  held 
of  the  king,  certifying  that  he  took  the  same  into  the  king's  hand 
for  that  the  said  \Villiam  Hillyerd  feloniously  slew  the  said  William 
de  Swyne,  and  likewise  for  that  the  jurors  of  the  said  inquisition 
knew  not  whether  the  entry  of  the  said  Nicholas  was  la^vful  or  un- 
lawful ;    and  the  king  considers  his  certificate  insufficient. 

June  8.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln  to  cause  a  coroner  to    be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  John  de  Amcotes,  who  is  too  sick  to  exercise  that  office. 

May  15.  To  John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Sussex.     Order  to  cause  dower  to  be 

Westminster,  assigned  to  Cicely  who  was  wife  of  John  di?  Bohun  of  Mid  hurst  knight 

of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death 

and  for  other  particular  causes,  sending  the  assignment  to  be  enrolled 

in  chancery. 

Membrane  15. 

May  12.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Essex  to  cause  a  verderer  in  the  forest  of 

Westminster.  Waltham  to  be  elected  instead  of  Ralph  Asselyn,  who  is  dead. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Essex  to  cause  a  verderer  in  the  forest  of 
W^altham  to  be  elected  instead  of  Thomas  Belhous,  who  has  no  lands 
Avithin  the  bounds  of  the  said  forest,  nor  dwells  within  the  same. 

May  12.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  William  de  Paunton,  who  is  insufficiently  quahfied. 


42    EDWARD    TTT. 


429 


18(58. 

May  20, 

Westminster. 


Membrane  15 — cant. 


Order  to  the  sheriff  of  York  to  cause  a  coroner  to  bo  elected  instead 
of  Cerard  de  Briinby  of  York,  avIio  is  insufTiciently  qualified. 


May  12.  Order  to  the  sheritT  of  Stafford  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  William  le  Hunte,  who  is  sick  and  aged. 

Like  order  to  the  same  sheriff,  as  William  de  Thekenes  is  sick  and 
aged. 

May  20.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Huntingdon  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  (Oected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Hugh  de  Loundres,  Mho  is  dead. 

May  9.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  York  to  cause  a  coroner  to  })e  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  John  de  Frekelton  who  is  siek  and  aged. 

April  28.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  John  de  Ireby,  who  is  sick  and  aged. 


Ai 


ipril  20.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Somerset  to  cause  a  verderer  in  the  forest  of 
Westminster.  Sel^ode  to  be  elected  instead  of  William  Welde,  who  is  dead. 


May  20.  To  Gilbert  de  Umfraunville  earl  of  Angos  and  his  fellows  [appointed] 

Westminster,  to  make  inquisition  concerning  weirs,  mills,  ponds,  piles,  stakes  and 
kiddles  set  up  in  the  river  Tyne.  Order  to  cause  all  who  have  set  up  weirs, 
mills,  ponds,  piles,  stakes  and  kiddles  in  the  said  river  since  the  time 
of  King  Edward  I,  whereby  the  passage  of  ships  and  boats  is  hindered, 
to  appear  before  tliem  in  person,  and  on  the  king's  behalf  to  order 
them  under  a  pain  of  20()Z.  to  abate  and  remove  the  same  before 
Michaelmas  next,  compelling  them  to  find  security  for  payment  of  that 
pain  in  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  next  if  the  same  be  not  so  abated 
and  removed,  certifying  such  security  in  chancery  before  Michaelmas, 
and  sending  again  t.his  writ ;  as  the  king  is  informed  tliat,  though 
in  their  commission  it  is  contained  that  they  should  cause  all  woirs, 
mills,  ponds,  piles,  stakes  and  kiddles  set  up  in  the  said  river  in  or  after 
the  said  king's  time  whereby  the  passage  of  ships  and  boats  is  hindered 
to  be  abated  and  removed  by  those  who  set  them  there  according  to 
the  ordinance  and  the  agreement  made  on  that  behalf,  they  have 
hitherto  deferred  so  to  do  to  the  hurt  and  grievance  of  the  people, 
and  the  king's  will  is  that  matters  which  are  ordered  and  agreed  for  the 
common  weal  be  observed  in  all  things.  By  pet.  of  pari. 

May  20.  To  Alan  de  BukeshuU  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London,  or  to  his 

Westminster,  lieutenant.     Order  to  keep  in  safe  custody  in  the  prison  of  the  said 

Tower  until  further  order  John  de  la  Lee  knight,  whom  the  king  has 

caused  to  be  delivered  to  him  by  the  council.  By  K. 

'May  20.  To  William  de  Elmele  clerk  of  the  king's  works  at  Clipston.     Order, 

Westminster,  of  the  iOl.  which  he  lately  took  at  the  receipt  of  the  exchequer  for 
repair  of  the  enclosure  of  the  king's  park  of  Clipston,  to  cause  as  well 
the  defects  of  said  enclosure  as  those  of  the  enclosure  of  his  park  of 
Beskewode  and  of  his  lodges  in  the  said  parks  to  be  repaired  where  need 
be  by  view  and  testimony  of  Eobert  de  Morton  keeper  of  Shirwode 
forest,  so  far  as  that  money  may  go. 


430 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1368. 

-May  15. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  15 — cont. 


To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  allow 
Thomas  Cheyny  constable  of  Wyndesore  castle  in  his  account  at  the 
exchequer  all  costs  which  they  shall  be  assured  by  view  and  testimony 
of  Peter  Somere  and  Simon  Brocas  surveyors  of  those  works  that  he 
has  laid  out  upon  the  repair  of  the  new  bridge  of  Guldeford  park, 
and  upon  the  making  and  mending  of  the  gates  and  paling  thereof. 

May  6.  To  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton.      Order  at   his  peril  of  the  issues 

Westminster,  of  his  bailiwick  to  cause  needful  repairs  to  be  done  to  the  houses  and 

enclosures  of  the  king's  manor  of  Wolmer  and  the  enclosures  of  his 

wood  of  Altisholt  within  Wolmer  forest ;    as  tliey  are  so  broken  and 

ruinous  that  the  need  of  repair  is  great,  as  the  king  has  learned.     By  C. 

May  12.  To  William  de  Monte  Acuto  earl  of  Salisbury,  or  to  his  steward  in 

Westminster,  the  Isle  of  Wight.  Order,  if  a  ship  called  la  Seinte  Marie  Base  of  la 
Croyne  in  Spain  was  recently  lost,  if  the  goods  and  chattels  therein 
cast  ashore  were  by  the  said  earl  and  his  steward  arrested  as  wreck, 
if  Gomis  Peritz  of  la  Croyne  the  shipmaster,  Robert*  Pollayn  a  native, 
Jacomart  de  Turnay,  John  de  Senterent,  LawTcnce  de  Souze,  Alfonso 
Andre  and  Jolin  Petro  escaped  alive  to  land  within  the  said  island 
and  the  liberty  of  the  town  of  Suthampton  as  it  is  said,  and  if  the 
said  Gomis  and  the  other  merchants  shall  prove  by  charters  or  marks 
or  by  their  oaths  that  the  merchandise  is  theirs,  to  cause  the  same  to 
be  delivered  to  them,  rendering  for  their  pains  to  those  who  salved  and 
kept  the  same  due  reward  to  be  made  by  discretion  of  the  said  earl  and 
his  steward  and  by  appointment  of  four  or  six  true  men  of  the  said 
liberty  according  to  the  statute  ;  as  the  said  Gomis  and  the  others 
named  and  certain  other  merchants  of  Spain  have  she\\'n  before  the  king 
and  council  in  tliis  parliament  that  they  escaped  alive  as  aforesaid  from 
the  said  ship,  wherefore  their  goods  and  merchandise  therein  so  cast 
ashore  might  not  according  to  the  statute  be  called  wreck  [pertaining] 
to  the  king  or  to  other  lords,  but  that  the  said  earl  and  his  steward 
have  arrested  the  same  as  wreck  and  are  unlawfully  \\'ithholding  them 
contrary  to  the  statute.  By  pet.  of  pari.     (Ancient  Petitions  3314.) 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

Ingelram  earl  of  Bedeford  or  his  steward  in  the  Isle  of  Wight. 

Wilham  bishop  of  Cicestre  and  his  bailiffs  of  Cicestre. 

June  10.  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  not  to 
Westminster,  meddle  furtlier  with  the  lands  which  Jolm  son  of  John  Wodecok  held 
of  the  heir  of  William  de  Roos  of  Hamelak  tenant  in  chief,  a  minor 
in  the  king's  wardship,  and  which  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
the  death  of  the  said  John  son  of  John  and  are  in  his  hand  ;  as  Jolm 
son  and  heir  of  the  said  deceased,  tenant  by  knight  service  of  the  said 
heir,  has  proved  liis  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken 
the  homage  and  fealty  of  Thomas  de  Roos,  brother  and  heir  of  William 
de  Roos  son  and  heir  of  the  said  William  de  Roos  of  Hamelak,  and 
has  commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  his  said  father's  lands. 

July  G.  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Yorkshire,     Order  to  deliver 

Westminster,  to  Queen  Philippa  or  to  her  attorney  the  manor  of  Thornton  Styward 

together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since  the  death  of  Alice  who  was 

wife  of  Giles  de  Bassyngbourne,  who  died  on  Tuesday  in  the  first  week 


*  In  the  petition  'Robin.' 


42  EDWARD    TTT.  431 


13{*)3^  Memhrnne  15 — cant. 

of  Lent  last,  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent  of  15  December 
last  granting  to  tlio  said  quoon  the  wardship  of  all  lands  which  were 
of  Walter  dc  (\)Icville  knight  tenant  in  v\\\vi  and  are  in  the  king's 
hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  with  the 
knights'  fees,  advowsons,  reversions  etc.  thereto  belonging,  to  hold 
initil  the  lawfid  age  of  the  said  heir,  together  with  the  mairiage  of  the 
heir,  not  rendering  auglit  to  the  king  for  that  wardship  and  marriage  ; 
as  now  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
said  Ahce  at  lier  deatli  by  fine  thereof  levi(>d  in  the  king's  court  lu^ld 
the  said  manor  foi'  life  with  remaindci-  to  the  said  Walter  and  Margaret 
daughter  of  tlie  said  Giles  and  to  tlie  heirs  of  their  bodies,  that  the 
said  Walter  and  Margaret  are  dead,  that  Robert  their  son  is  tlunr 
next  heir  and  of  the  age  of  three  years  and  upwards,  and  that  the 
said  manor  is  held  by  knight  service  of  another  than  the  king. 

To  Richard  de  Wydeville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.  Like 
order  with  regard  to  the  manor  of  Abyndon,  held  in  chief  by  knight 
service,  the  fine  thereof  being  levied  with  the  king's  licence. 

MEMnRANE   14. 

May  22.  To  Richard  de  Raveneser  the  king's  clerk,   administrator  of  the 

Westminstor.  goods  and  chattels  of  Isabel  the  late  queen  mother.     Order  of  the  said 

goods  and  chattels  in  his  keeping  to  pay  100  marks    to   the   warden 

and  friars  of  the  order  of  Minorites  in  the  city  of  London  in  part  of  the 

execution  of  the  said  queen's  will.  By  K. 

May  10.  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Yorkshire.      Order,  upon  the 

Westminster,  petition  of  William  Rauf  of  DrifPeld  and  Richard  de  Housom  of 
Elmeswell,  to  make  full  restitution  of  their  goods  and  chattels  in  the 
king's  hand  ;  as  they  have  shewn  the  king  that  they  being  indicted 
before  Simon  de  Heselarton  coroner  in  Yorkshire  for  abetting,  pro- 
curing, consenting  and  aiding  to  slay  John  Dryng,  and  appearing  at  the 
view  of  his  body,  were  by  the  said  coroner  attached  and  delivered  to 
the  custody  of  the  sheriff  of  York  to  be  imprisoned  until  delivered 
according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  the  realm,  as  appears  by  the 
tenor  of  the  indictment  then  returned  before  the  coroner  which  the 
king  has  caused  to  come  before  him  in  chancery,  that  thus  it  is  clear 
they  were  not  fugitives,  but  that  the  escheator  has  taken  tlieir  goods 
and  chattels  into  the  king's  hand  as  forfeit,  refusing  to  restore  the 
same,  for  that  John  Bygot,  Robert  Boynton,  Thomas  Maule  and 
Thomas  de  Wythornewyk,  being  appointed  to  make  inquisition  con- 
cerning the  said  John's  death,  certified  that  the  said  William  and 
Richard  were  fugitives  by  reason  thereof,  wherefore  they  have  prayed 
for  remedy.  By  C. 

May  20.  Mandate  to  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  to  stay 

Westminster,  altogether  their  demand  against  the  said  escheator  to  answer  concern- 
ing the  goods  and  chattels  aforesaid,  tliereof  discharging  as  well  the 
escheator  as  the  said  William  and  Richard.  By  C. 

May  20.  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order,  upon  the 

Westminster,  petition  of  Patrick  de  Langedale  and  Robert    de  Ravensthorp,  if   it 

be  not  found  before  any  coroner  of  that  county  that  they  weve  fugitives 

by  reason  of  the  death  of  John  Dryng  of  Driffeld,  to  restore  them 


4S2  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1358^  Membrane  14 — cont. 

their  goods  and  chattels  taken  into  the  king's  hand  on  that  pretence  ; 
as  their  petition  shews  that  they  are  indicted  before  John  Bygot  and 
his  fellows  lately  appointed  to  make  inquisition  concerning  the  death 
of  John  Dryng  for  hiring,  ordering,  commanding  and  procm-ing 
William  '  of  the  Hill '  of  Driffeld  and  certain  others  to  slay  the  said 
John  Dryng,  and  not  as  principals,  and  though  they  were  not  fugitives, 
nor  is  it  found  before  any  coroner  of  the  county  that  they  AA^ere,  the 
escheator  has  taken  their  goods  and  chattels  as  forfeit  into  the  king's 
hand  and  is  yet  detaining  the  same,  for  that  it  is  found  by  an 
inquisition,  taken  before  the  said  John  [Bygot]  and  his  fellows  of  their 
office,  who  have  no  record,  that  the  said  Patrick  and  Robert  were 
fugitives  for  that  cause,  praying  for  restitution.  The  king's  will  is 
that  the  escheator  be  thereof  discharged.  By  K. 

June  12.  To  W.  bishop  of  Worcester.  Licence  to  do  wliat  is  incumbent  upon 
Westminster,  his  office  in  regard  to  the  admission  of  a  parson  to  the  church  of 
Wynterboiirne  of  his  diocese,  the  king's  prohibition  notwithstanding  ; 
as  the  king  lately  by  writ  forbade  him  to  admit  a  parson  to  the  said 
church,  which  is  void  it  is  said,  until  it  should  be  debated  in  the  king's 
court  whether  the  presentation  pertained  to  the  king  or  to  Agnes 
who  was  wife  of  Thomas  de  Bradestane  ;  but  by  search  of  the  king's 
rolls  and  memoranda  it  is  not  at  present  found  that  the  right  of 
presentation  pertains  to  the  king  for  this  turn.  By  K. 

June  7.  To  Robert  de  Morton  keeper  of  the  king's  manor  of  Clipston,  or  to  his 

Westminster,  representative.     Order  of  the  issues  of  the  said  manor  to  cause  all 

defects  of  the  king's  chapel  within  the  same,  and  of  the  chapel    of 

St.    Edwin  within  Shirwode   forest  in    roofing  and  otherwise  where 

need  be  to  be  repaired.  By  K. 

June  10.  To  Roger  de  W^olfreton  escheator  in  Essex.  Order  to  cause  Thomas 
Westminster,  son  and  heir  of  John  son  of  John  de  Belhous  to  have  seisin  of  certain 
lands  in  Relegli  of  his  heritage  held  jointly  by  his  said  father  and  by 
William  de  Leyre  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  his  said  father,  and  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  their  death  ;  as  tlie  premises  are  held  of  the 
king  by  knight  service  as  of  the  honour  of  Relegh  Avhich  is  in  his  hand, 
and  the  said  Thomas  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and 
the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  featly.  By  p.s.  [27611.] 

June  20.         To  Thomas  Cheyne  constable  of  Wyndesore  castle  and  keeper  of 

Westminster.  Guldeiord  park.     Order  of  the  issues  of  his  bailiwick  to  cause  the 

houses,  palings  and  enclosures  of  the  said  park  to  be  repaired  Avhere 

need  be  by  view  and  testimony  of  Peter  Semere,  Simon  Brocas  and 

^Villiam  atte  Parke  surveyors  of  the  king's  works  there.  By  K. 

June  26.  To  the  chancellor  of  Leland  for  the  time  being.  Order  to  deliver  to 
Westminster.  Robert  de  Beverleye  the  castle  of  McKenegan  and  two  carucates  of 
land  of  the  king's  demesnes  there  to  hold  and  keep  according  to  the 
king's  letters  patent,  paying  him  his  fee  of  40/.  a  year  at  Midsummer, 
Michaelmas,  Cliristmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions  so  long  as  he  shall 
abide  in  the  said  castle  with  one  man  at  arms  and  twelve  archers  for 
the  defence  thereof  and  of  the  neighbouring  parts  ;  as  by  letters 
patent  under  liis  seal  used  in  Ireland  the  king  committed  tlie  Avard 
of  the  said  castle  to  the  said  Robert  during  pleasure,  taking  the  said 


42    EDWARD    III.  433 


1368.  Membrane  14 — cont. 

fee,  so  that  he  shall  ever  have  ^v'ith  him  in  arms  the  men  aforesaid  well 
arrayed  to  furnish  and  defend  the  same  and  in  aid  of  the  safety  of  the 
neighbouring  parts  against  the  snares  and  attacks  of  tlie  enemy,  and 
has  granted  liim  in  aid  of  liis  maintenance  to  have  the  said  land  to  till, 
which  then  lay  waste  and  untilled,  not  demised  to  other  tenants,  for 
the  profit  Avlicreof  no  answer  was  made  to  the  king,  and  the  profit 
thereof  arising,  and  that  he  might  take  '  housbote  '  and  '  haybote  ' 
for  his  fuel  in  tlie  king's  wood  there  without  rendering  aught  to  the 
king  so  long  as  he  should  hold  that  ward  ;  and  after  on  5  March  in 
the  29th  year  of  his  reign,  willing  to  shew  more  abundant  favour  to 
the  said  Robert,  by  letters  patent  under  the  seal  used  in  England  the 
king  granted  that  he  should  have  the  ward  of  the  said  castle  and 
land  during  good  behaviour  with  the  fee,  the  land  etc.  aforesaid  with- 
out rendering  aught  to  the  king  ;  and  the  said  Robert,  [who]  has 
long  abode  in  Wyndesore  castJe  among  other  loiights  whom  the  king 
of  his  appointment  there  maintains,  is  now  preparing  [to  go]  to  Ireland 
there  to  abide  in  person  to  the  furnishing  of  the  said  castle  for  the 
safe  guard  and  defence  thereof  and  of  the  parts  adjacent,  leaving 
his  abode  in  Wyndesore  castle  and  the  maintenance  which  he  there 
takes  of  the  king's  appointment. 

Membrane  13. 

July  6.  To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Essex.     Order  not  to  meddle 

Westminster,  further  with  the  manors  of  Hosedenes  and  Cakestone  in  the  towns  of 
Great  Mapeltrestede  and  Castle  Hengham,  a  messuage,  120  acres  of 
land,  5  acres  of  meadow  and  5  acres  of  wood  in  Mapiltrestede,  Castle 
Hengham,  Sible  Hengham,  and  Halstede,  and  the  manor  and  advow- 
son  of  Wanstede,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John 
de  Huntercombe  knight,  delivering  to  Margaret  late  his  wife  any 
issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  divers  inquisitions, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John  at  his  death  held  no  lands 
in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  Jointly  with 
the  said  Margaret  the  manors  of  Hosedenes  and  Cakestone  with  their 
appurtenances  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  John  Olyver  of  Toppesfeld, 
the  said  messuage,  land,  meadow  and  wood  of  the  gift  of  the  said  John 
Olyver  and  John  le  Roo  of  Shaldford,  and  the  manor  and  advowsou 
of  Wanstede  of  the  gift  of  Richard  Tymberlake  parson  of  Bekenesfeld, 
John  parson  of  Wanstede  and  Thomas  Aylmer,  and  that  the  same 
are  held  of  others  than  the  long. 

To  John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.  Order  to  take  of 
Margaret  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Huntercombe  knight  tenant  in 
chief  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and 
-  to  assign  her  dower  of  the  lands  of  her  said  husband  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  his  death,  sending  the  assigrunent  to  be  enrolled  in 
chancery. 

Jjly  2.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Suffolk  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  Bald^^in  Cobbe,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

June  2.5.         To  John  de  Yerdeburgh.     Order  to  bring  into  chancery  a  sum  of 

Westminster,  money  in  gold  and  silver  which  was  of  a  felon  who  abjured  the  realm 

for  a  felony  at  Osbarnby,  so  much  as  came  to  his  haiids  as  the  king 

has  learned,  or  to  send  and  deliver  the  same  there  by  one  for  whom  he 

E  28 


434 


CALENDAR   OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1368. 


Membrane  13 — cont. 


will  answer,  and  the  king  will  give  him  due  reward  as  well  for  his  good 
behaviour  as  for  his  pains  in  that  behalf  ;  as  the  king's  will  is  that 
answer  be  made  to  him  for  the  money  aforesaid.  By  K. 

July  24.  T^o  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln.     Order,  of  the  king's  favour,  to  make 

Westminster,  restitution  to  Thomas  Smyth  of  Askeby,  unless  he  was  a  fugitive,  of 
his  lands,  goods  and  chattels  taken  by  the  sheriff  into  the  king's  hand  ; 
as  the  said  Thomas  was  lately  indicted  touching  divers  thefts,  namely 
for  robbing  John  Coke  of  Bole  of  5d.  and  a  silver  ring  price  \\d.,  and 
Thomas  parson  of  Bultham  of  20  marks,  and  was  taken  and  imprisoned 
in  Lincoln  castle,  and  after  was  as  a  clerk  convicted  before  Thomas 
de  Ingelby  and  liis  fellows,  justices  appointed  for  delivery  of  the 
said  gaol,  and  by  them  delivered  to  the  bishop  of  Lincoln  as  ordinary 
according  to  the  benefit  of  clergy,  and  has  before  the  said  bishop 
purged  his  innocence,  as  the  bishop  has  signified  by  his  letters  patent. 
The  like  to  Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire. 


July  26. 

Guildford. 


To  John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Bedfordshire.  Order  to  dehver  to 
Roger  de  Bello  Campo  and  Sibyl  his  mfe,  sister  and  one  of  the  heirs 
of  William  de  Pateshull  kniglit  tenant  in  chief,  to  her  purparty,  all 
the  knights'  fees  and  parts  of  fees  belonging  to  the  manors  of  Blet- 
teneshoo  and  Cayshoo  and  the  advowson  of  Bletteneshoo  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  the  said  William's  death  ;  as  in  the  partition  of  his 
lands  lately  made  in  chancery  by  assent  of  the  heirs  and  parceners 
of  his  heritage  those  manors  were  assigned  to  the  said  Roger  and  Sibyl, 
and  the  king  commanded  livery  thereof  to  be  given  them  ;  and  it  is 
agreed  among  tlie  said  parceners  that  every  of  them  shall  have  the 
knights'  fees  and  parts  of  fees  pertaining  to  his  purparty,  as  their 
attorneys  lately  appearing  in  person  in  chancery  have  acknowledged. 


Nov.  8.  To   Richard   de   Widevylle   escheator   in   Norhamptonshire.     Like 

Westminster,  order  to  deliver  to  Thomas,  son  of  Walter  de  Faucomberge  and  Maud 
his  wife  deceased,  fourth  sister  of  William  de  Pateshull  knight,  being 
the  cousin  and  fourth  heir  of  the  said  WilUam,  to  his  pui-party,  the 
knights'  fees  and  parts  of  fees  pertaining  to  certain  lands  in  Rethres- 
thrope,  Pateshull,  Auenescote,  Darlescote,  Descote,  Farnyngho, 
Potecote,  Lichebarwe,  Maydeford,  Tyffeld,  Gayton,  Ipwell  and 
Preston,  and  the  advowson  of  Middelton  ;  as  in  the  partition  of  the 
said  WilUam' s  lands  the  said  lands  and  certain  lands  in  Kerdyngton 
CO.  Bedford  were  assigned  to  the  said  Thomas,  then  \nthin  age  and  in 
the  king's  wardshij3 ;  and  after  the  age  of  the  said  Thomas,  was  proved, 
and  the  king  commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  his  purparty. 

Like  command  to  John  de  Olney  escheator  in  Bedfordshire  to 
deliver  to  the  said  Thomas  the  knights'  fees  and  parts  of  fees  pertain- 
ing to  the  lands  in  Kerdyngton  aforesaid. 

Nov.  8.  To   Richard   de   Widevylle   escheator   in    Norhamptonshire.     Like 

Westminster,  order  to  deliver  to  Katherine  the  third  sister  of  William  de  Pateshull 
knight  the  knights'  fees  and  parts  of  fees  pertaining  to  the  manor  of 
Heyford  and  certain  lands  in  Bukebroke,  Flore,  Farthyngeston, 
Grymescote,  Hegham,  Carsewell,  Coldassheby  and  Westhaddon,  and 
the  presentation  of  one  monk  in  Pipewell  abbey  ;  as  in  the  partition 
of  the  said  William's  lands  the  said  manor  and  lands,  certain  lands  in 
Astan\A'yk  \A'ithin  the  liberty  of  Holdernesse,  Ronhale,  Wotton  and 


42  EDWARD  III.  435 


1368.  Membrane  13 — cont. 

Langoford  co.  Bedford,  and  the  manor  of  Frisby  co.  Lincoln  were 
assigned  to  Robert  do  TudcnJiam  (now  deceased)  and  to  the  said 
Katherine  liis  wife  to  her  purparty,  and  the  king  commanded  hvery 
tliereof  to  be  given  them  ;  and  in  accordance  with  the  agreement 
aforesaid  the  king  has  assigned  to  the  said  Katherine  the  knights' 
fees  and  parts  of  fees  thereto  pertaining,  the  advowsons  of  Houton 
Conquest  co.  Bedford  and  Tussemere  co.  Oxford,  the  presentation  of 
one  monk  in  the  said  abbey  and  of  one  canon  in  the  priory  of  Calde- 
well  CO.  Bedford. 

Like  command  to  Thomas  de  \Vithorn^^'yk  escheator  within  the 
hberty  of  Holdernesse  to  dehver  to  the  said  Katherine  the  knights' 
fees  and  parts  of  fees  pertaining  to  the  said  lands  in  Astanwyk. 

Like  command  to  John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Bedfordshire  con- 
cerning the  knights'  fees  and  parts  of  fees  pertaining  to  the  said  lands 
in  Ronliale,  Wotton  and  Langeford,  the  advowson  of  Houton  Conquest, 
and  the  presentation  of  one  canon  in  Caldewell  priory. 

Like  command  to  Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire  con- 
cerning the  knights'  fees  and  parts  of  fees  pertaining  to  the  manor  of 
Frisby. 

Like  command  to  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Oxfordshire  con- 
cernino;  the  advowson  of  Tussemere. 


'■o 


To  John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Bedfordshire  and  Bukinghamshire. 
Like  order  to  deliver  to  Thomas  Wake  of  Blyseworth  and  Alice  his 
wife,  sister  and  one  of  the  heirs  of  William  de  PateshuU  knight,  the 
knights'  fees  and  parts  of  fees  pertaining  to  the  manor  of  Craule 
CO.  Bukingham  and  to  certain  lands  in  Lynchelade  co.  Bukingham, 
Langeford  co.  Bedford,  Bromham  and  Kerdyngton  ;  as  in  the  parti- 
tion of  the  said  William's  lands  the  said  manor  and  lands  and  certain 
lands  in  Middelton,  Colyntre,  Hakelton  and  Pidyngton  co.  Nor- 
hampton  and  in  Chelsey  co.  Hertford  were  assigned  to  the  said  Thomas 
and  Alice  to  her  purparty  ;  and  in  accordance  with  the  agreement 
aforesaid  the  king  has  assigned  to  them  the  knights'  fees  and  parts  of 
fees  thereto  pertaining,  and  the  advowson  of  Colyntre  co.  Norhampton. 

Membrane  12. 

July  16.  To  William  Cheyne  escheator  in  Somerset.     Order  to  cause  John 

Westminster.  Meryet,  son  of  Eleanor  sister  of  John  de  Bello  Campo  of  Somersete 
tenant  in  chief,  to  have  seisin  as  well  of  the  lands  of  the  said  John 
de  Bello  Campo  as  of  those  which  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  John  de 
Bello  Campo  the  elder  held  in  dower  or  otherwise  for  her  life  of  the 
heritage  of  the  said  John  Meryet  and  of  Cicely  sister  and  the  other 
heir  of  the  said  John  de  Bello  Campo,  which  by  the  death  of  the 
said  John  and  Margaret  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said 
John  Meryet  are  in  the  king's  hand  and  in  the  wardship  of 
Queen  Phihppa,  except  the  lands  assigned  by  the  king  to  the  said 
Cicely  to  her  purparty,  and  to  Alice  who  was  wife  of  the  said  John 
de  Bello  Campo  in  dower  ;  as  on  12  February  in  the  36th  year  of  his 
reign,  by  assent  of  the  said  queen  as  guardian  of  the  said  John  Meryet 
then  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  by  assent  of  the  said  Cicely 
being  of  full  age,  the  king  assigned  to  the  said  Cicely  to  her  purparty 
of  the  said  lands  the  manors  of  Hacche,  Shipton  Beauchamp  and 
Murefeld,  a  third  part  of  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Shipton  Malet 
CO.  Somerset,  certain  lands  in  Stourmynstre  Mareschale  co.  Dorset,  the 


436  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


X368.  Membrane  12 — cont. 

manors  of  Boltebury  and  Hurberton  co.  Devon,  the  manors  of  Dourton 
CO.  Bukingham,  and  Littelhawe  co.  Suffolk,  and  two  thirds  of  the 
manor  of  Sellyng  co.  Kent,  and  commanded  Uvery  thereof  to  be 
given  her  ;  and  the  said  John  Meryet  has  now  proved  his  age  before 
the  escheator.  and  the  king  has  taken  his  fealty,  and  has  respited  his 
homage  until  Michaelmas  next. 


"fe^ 


To  Thomas  Cheyne  escheator  in  Devon.     Like  order ;    as  John 
Meryet  has  now  proved  his  age  before  William  Cheyne. 
The  like  to  the  folloMdng  : 

John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire. 

John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Wiltes  and  Berkshire. 

John  Benet  escheator  in  Gloucestershire. 

Johii  de  Tye  escheator  in  Kent  and  Surrey. 

July  28.  To  Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.     Order  to  take  the 

Guildford,  fealty  of  Pliilippa  who  was  wife  of  Edward  son  of  John  de  Bohun 
cf  Midhurst  knight,  according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed, 
and  not  to  meddle  further  witli  a  manor,  one  bovate  and  a  quarter  of 
land  in  that  county,  and  28/.  of  rent  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  death  of  the  said  John,  delivering  to  the  said  Philippa  any 
issues  thereof  taken,  leaving  405.  of  rent  in  the  keeping  of  Guy  de 
Bryene  according  to  the  commission  to  him  made,  and  keeping  in  the 
king's  hand  until  further  order  certain  services  hereinafter  specified  ; 
as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  lately  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
said  John  formerlj^  held  the  said  manor  and  land  and  30/.  a  year  of 
rent  to  be  taken  of  divers  freeholders  in  Waltham,  Belesby,  Hatclyf, 
Fenby  and  Wathe  in  chief  by  the  service  of  the  fourth  part  of  one 
knight's  fee,  that  all  tenants  of  the  said  manor  owe  suit  of  his  court 
in  Waltham  every  three  weeks,  that  the  said  John  by  his  charter 
gave  to  John  Gogh  clerk  and  John  Seys  the  said  manor  and  land  and 
28Z.  of  the  said  rent,  keeping  in  his  hands  405.  thereof,  and  keeping 
the  service  of  William  de  Belesby  knight  who  held  of  him  a  messuage, 
nine  tofts,  the  site  of  a  messuage  and  two  bovates  of  land  in  Belesby 
as  of  the  said  manor  of  Waltham  by  fealty  and  the  suit  of  the  said 
John's  court  of  Waltham  as  aforesaid  and  by  the  service  of  85.  a  year, 
and  the  service  of  Robert  Maundeville  who  held  a  messuage  and  two 
carucates  of  land  in  Belesby  as  of  the  said  manor  by  like  suit  of  court 
and  by  the  service  of  405.,  which  Robert  died  before  the  said  John 
Gogh  and  John  Seys  were  enteoffed  as  aforesaid,  that  the  said  John 
de  Bohun  held  those  services  in  chief  by  knight  service,  that  neither 
the  said  William  nor  the  said  Robert  attorned  tenant  to  John  Gogh 
and  John  Seys  nor  did  fealty  [to  them]  nor  suit  of  court  for  the 
tenements  so  held,  that  the  said  Robert  at  his  death  had  a  daughter 
named  Alice  then  A\ithin  age,  who  was  in  the  nourishment  and  ward- 
ship of  the  said  William  de  Belesby  as  her  next  friend  on  the  mother's 
side  to  whom  her  heritage  on  the  father's  side  ought  not  to  descend, 
that  neither  she  nor  the  said  Wilham  for  her  ever  did  fealty  or  other 
service  or  attorned  tenant  to  John  Gogh  and  John  Seys  for  the  said 
lands,  and  that  so  the  said  John  de  Bohun  at  his  death  was  seised  of 
the  said  405.  of  rent  and  ot  the  said  services,  which  are  held  in  chief 
by  knight  service  ;  and  now  on  behalf  of  the  said  Pliilippa  the  king 
is  informed  that  the  said  John  de  Bohun  was  sometime  seised  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee  of  all  the  premises  together  \vith  another  rent  of 
33s.  4d.  in  the  said  towns,  and  gave  the  whole  of  them  to  Edmund  de 


42   EDWARD    III.  437 


1368.  Membrane  12 — cont. 

Grymosby  clerk  and  to  his  heirs,  by  virtue  whereof  the  said  Edmund 
was  seised  of  the  rent  of  31/.  135.  4d.,  that  .all  the  tenants  thereof 
attorned  tenants  to  the  said  Edmund,,  that  the  said  Edmund  after 
gave  the  said  [tenements]  and  services  to  Guy  de  Bryene,  the  said 
John  de  Boliun,  John  Gogh  and  John  Seys  and  to  their  heirs,  by 
reason  whereof  all  the  tenants  attorned  tenants  to  them,  that  they 
after  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  in  the  Slst  year  of  his  reign 
granted  to  the  said  Edward  and  Philippa  and  to  the  heirs  of  their 
bodies  three  bovates  of  land  and  31/.  135.  4rf.  of  rent  in  Belesby, 
Hatclyf,  Fenby,  Wathe  and  Waltham  with  the  homages  and  services 
of  William  de  Belesby  kniglit,  John  de  Hatclyf,  Alice  daughter  of 
Robert  de  Maundeville  and  others,  by  virtue  whereof  the  said  Edward 
and  Philippa  were  thereof  seised  and  all  the  tenants  aforesaid  attorned 
tenants  to  them,  and  that  after  the  king  by  letters  patent,  reciting 
the  said  gifts  made  without  his  licence,  pardoned  the  said  Edmund 
and  the  other  feoffees  their  trespasses  in  the  matter,  wherefore  the 
^  said  Philippa  has  prayed  the  king  for  livery  of  the  lands  and  rents 
whereof  she  was  jointly  enfeoffed  with  her  said  husband,  as  those 
specified  in  the  said  fine  are  the  same  contained  in  the  said  inquisition  ; 
and  the  king  has  committed  to  the  said  Guy  the  keeping  of  the  405. 
of  rent  in  the  inquisition  contained  until  debate  be  had  whether  they 
be  parcel  of  the  rent  of  31/.  135.  4:d.  specified  in  the  said  fine  or  no, 
so  that  he  shall  yearly  make  answer  for  the  same  during  the  nonage 
of  the  heir  of  Jolin  de  Bohun  in  case  it  shall  be  adjudged  that  the 
wardship  thereof  ought  to  pertain  to  the  king  by  reason  of  his 
nonage. 

Membrane  11. 

Sept.  3.  To  John  Benet  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.     Order  to  take  of 

Woodstock.  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  Maurice  son  of  Thomas  de  Berkele  knight 
tenant  in  chief  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's 
licence,  and  to  deliver  to  her  in  dower  the  manors  of  Couelegh,  Upton 
St.  Leonard  and  Aure  and  a  messuage  and  one  virgate  of  land  in 
Seintcleye  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  the  said  Maurice 
and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir  ;  as  of  her  said  husband's 
lands  the  king  has  assigned  to  her  the  said  manor  of  Couelegh  extended 
at  57/.  45.  lOd.  a  year,  the  said  manor  of  Upton  at  4/.,  the  said  manor 
of  Aure,  namely  Ettelowe  and  Blakeneye  with  the  hundred  of  BHd- 
deslowe  at  27/.  175.  lO^d.,  and  the  said  messuage  and  land  at  405.  all 
in  the  said  county,  in  Somerset  two  thirds  of  the  manor  of  Portbury 
extended  at  66/.  185.  9c/.,  a  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Portesheved  at 
4/.  95.  6c/.,  and  a  messuage,  a  dovecot  and  one  virgate  of  land  in  Portes- 
heved at  185.  5c?.,  in  Essex  the  manor  of  Great  Wenden  extended  at 
10/.  a  year,  10/.  of  rent  in  Briggewater  co.  Somerset  and  305.  of  rent 
in  Chiklade  co.  Wiltcs,  rendering  at  the  exchequer  during  the  said 
heir's  nonage  and  to  the  said  heir  when  of  full  age  15c^.  a  year  which 
is  the  excess  of  her  said  dower. 

To  William  Cheyne  escheator  in  Somerset.  Like  order  to  deliver 
to  the  said  Elizabeth  in  dower  two  thu'ds  of  the  manor  of  Portbury, 
a  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Portesheved,  a  messuage,  a  dovecot 
and  one  virgate  of  land  in  Portesheved,  and  10/.  of  rent  in  Brigge- 
water. 


438 


CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1368. 


Sept.  12. 

Clere 
Episcopi. 


Membrane  11 — cont. 


The  like  to  the  following  : 

Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Essex,  concerning  the  manor  of 

Great  Wenden. 
John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Wiltes,  concerniag  30s.  of  rent 
in  Chiklade. 

To  John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Kent,  Surrey,  Sussex  and  Middlesex. 
Order  to  cause  John  de  Hastyngges,  son  and  heir  of  La\vrence  de  Has- 
tyngges  earl  of  Pembroke  tenant  in  chief,  to  have  seisin  as  well  of 
the  lands  of  his  said  father  as  of  those  which  Agnes  who  was  wiie  of  the 
said  earl  and  Juliana  countess  of  Huntyngdon  held  in  dower  or  other- 
wise for  life  of  his  heritage,  and  which  by  their  death  are  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  ;  as  the  said  John  has  proved  his  age  before  the 
escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty. 


To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Essex,  Hertfordshire,  Norffolk 
and  Suffolk.     Like  order  ;    as  John  de  Hastyngges  has.  proved  his 
age  before  Jolm  de  Tye. 
The  hke  to  the  following  : 

Richard  de  Wydeville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire  and  Rote- 
land. 
PhiHp  de  Lutteley  escheator  in  Salop,  Staffordshire,  Hereford- 
shire and  the  march  of  Wales  adjoining. 
John  Benet  escheator  in  Gloucestershire  and  the  march  of  Wales 

adjoining. 
William  Cheyne  escheator  in  Somerset  and  Dorset. 
John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Wiltes,  Suthampton, 

Oxford  and  Berkshire. 
William  atte  More  escheator  in  Warwickshire  and  Leycestershire. 
Leo  de  Perton  escheator  in  Worcestershire. 
Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire. 

John    de    Olneye    escheator    in    Bedfordshire,    Bukinghamshire, 
Cambridgeshire  and  Huntingdonshire. 

Nov.  6.  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Yorkshire  and  Northumberland. 

Westminster.  Order  to  deliver  in  dow  er  to  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Henry  de  Percy 
the  father  tenant  in  chief,  of  whom  the  king  has  taken  an  oath  that 
she  will  not  marry  without  his  hcence,  the  manor  of  Semer,  a  third 
part  of  the  manors  of  Starbotill,  Spofford,  Topcliff,  of  certain  lands  and 
tenements  in  Walton,  Bukden  and  the  city  of  York,  and  of  two  thirds 
of  the  manor  of  Wharrompercy  co.  York,  a  third  part  of  the  manor  of 
Alnewyk  and  of  the  mills  of  Northcarleton,  of  the  town  of  Denewyk, 
of  the  manors  and  towns  of  Lessebery,  Great  Hoghton  and  Chatton,  of 
the  manor  of  Thrasterston,  of  the  manor  and  town  of  Alneham  and 
of  a  pasture  called  Swynlescheiles  (Swynleischeles),  of  the  manors  of 
Werkeworth,  Routhebury,  Corbrigge  and  Newborne  with  their 
members,  of  certain  tenements  in  Wollore,  of  131.  6s.  did.  of  rent 
pertaining  to  the  ward  of  Alnewyk  castle,  of  SI.  of  rent  yearly  to  be 
taken  of  the  manor  of  Benley  by  the  hands  of  the  tenants  thereof,  and 
of  66s.  8d.  of  rent  to  be  taken  of  the  manor  of  Southmidelton  under 
Chevyot  co.  Northumberland,  a  third  part  of  the  knights'  fees  per- 
taining to  that  heritage,  and  the  advow^son  of  Arneclyf,  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  the  said  Henry  ;  as  of  her  said  husband's 
heritage  whereof  she  may  be  dowered,  with  the  assent  of  Henry   de 


42   EDWARD   III.  439 


1308.  Membrane  11 — cont. 

Percy  son  and  heir  of  the  said  Henry,  the  king  has  assigned  to  the  said 
Joan  tlie  manors,  lands,  rents  and  advowson  aforesaid,  a  third  part  of 
8  marks  of  rent  to  bo  taken  of  the  manor  of  tlie  jn'ior  of  SixJiill  in 
Luddefoid,  of  4().s'.  of  rent  to  be  taken  of  the  lands  of  the  prior  of 
Thornton  in  Outheby,  and  of  ISs.  4c?.  of  rent  to  be  taken  of  the  lands 
of  the  prior  of  Elsham  in  Outhenby  co.  LincoLi,  and  a  third  part  of 
certain  tenements  in  London. 

Nov.  6.  To   Walter   de   Kelby   escheator   in   Lincolnshire.     Like   order   to 

Westminster,  deliver  to  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Henry  de  Percy  the  father  a  thu'd 
part  of  8  marks  of  rent  to  be  taken  of  the  manor  of  the  prior  of  Six- 
hill  in  Luddeford,  of  405.  of  rent  to  be  taken  of  the  lands  of  the  prior 
of  Thornton  in  Outhenby,  and  of  13cS\  M.  of  rent  to  be  taken  of  the 
lands  of  the  prior  of  Elsham  in  Outhenby. 

The  like  to  Simon  de  Mordon  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and 
escheator  therein,  concerning  the  third  part  of  certain  tenements 
in  that  city. 

Membrane  10. 

Sept.  22.  To  Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Order  not  to  meddle 
Windsor.  further  with  the  manor  of  Toft  by  Wytham  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  death  of  Henry  de  Percy  the  father,  delivering  to  Joan  some- 
time his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Henry  at  his  death 
held  the  said  manor  of  her  heritage,  and  that  it  is  held  of  another 
than  the  king. 

To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Norffolk  and  Suffolk.  Order 
not  to  meddle  further  with  the  hundred  of  Shropham  and  a  parcel  of 
the  manor  of  Old  Bokenham  co.  Norffolk,  and  with  the  manor  of 
Crattefeld  co.  Suffolk,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Henry 
de  Percy  the  father,  delivering  to  Joan  sometime  his  Avife  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  divers  inquisitions,  taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Henry  at  his  death  held  the  premises 
of  her  heritage,  and  that  the  said  hundred  and  parcel  are  held  in 
chief  as  parcel  of  the  barony  of  Tateshale,  and  the  said  manor  of 
Crattefeld  of  others  than  the  king. 

Sept.  24.  To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Northumberland.  Order  to 
Westminster,  deliver  to  Gilbert  de  Umtramville  earl  of  Angos,  son  and  heir  of  Robert 
de  Umframville  knight,  the  lands,  rents  and  adv^owson  hereinafter 
mentioned,  which  were  held  in  dower  of  his  heritage  by  Eleanor  who 
was  wife  of  the  said  Robert,  and  by  her  death  are  taken  into  the  king's 
hand,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since  her  death  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said 
Eleanor  at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  cliief  nor  of  any 
other  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  in  dower  by  assignment  of  the 
king  the  town  and  advowson  of  Ovyngeliam,  265.  M.  of  rent  issuing 
from  the  town  of  Rouchastre,  a  messuage,  a  water  mill,  five  carucates 
of  land,  20  acres  of  meadow  and  50  acres  of  wood  in  Shirmonden, 
five  messuages,  one  cottage  and  five  husband  lands  in  Alwynton, 
a  pasture  in  Redesdale  called  Erlesside,  20  acres  of  wood  called  Aken- 
side,  four  messuages  and  four  bovates  of  land  at  the  Wodside  by 
Ellesden,  100  acres  of  wood  called  Kyngthorp,  two  messuages  and 


440  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


J353_  Membrane  10 — cord. 

two  bovates  of  land  in  Little  Wodbume,  a  messuage  and  one  bovate 
of  land  [in]  Wolrig  by  Herbotill,  a  pasture  in  Redesdale  called  Ful- 
hope,  a  piece  of  land  called  Grenesoneheseles,  two  thirds  of  the  pasture 
of  the  Smalburne  in  Redesdale,  a  rent  of  IDs.  and  \lh.  of  pepper  of 
Ladiland  in  Hatherwyk  in  Redesdale,  55.  of  rent  issuing  from  the 
lands  of  Gilbert  Kayxewyk  in  EUesden,  a  rent  of  2$.  issuing  from 
the  lands  of  Nicholas  Doun  in  Ellesden,  and  a  rent  of  14<i.  issuing  from 
the  lands  of  Thomas  Shert  in  Lynsheles,  that  all  the  premises  are  held 
in  chief  by  knight  service  except  certain  lands  in  Alwynton,  which  are 
held  of  Henry  de  Percy,  and  that  the  said  earl  is  son  and  heir  of  the 
said  Robert  and  of  full  age  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and 
fealty,  and  has  commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  his  said  father's 
lands. 

Oct.  20.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne. 
Westminster.  Order  to  pay  to  John  de  Denton,  son  and  hek  of  John  de  Denton,  the 
arrears  of  25Z.  16s.  4c?.  a  year  since  the  death  of  Elizabeth  who  was 
wdfe  of  the  said  John  the  father,  taking  his  acquittance,  according  to 
the  king's  letters  patent  of  28  January  in  the  18th  year  of  his  reign, 
granting  to  the  said  Elizabeth  and  to  her  children,  in  consideration  of 
the  costly  services  rendered  by  the  said  John  in  his  life  time  and  of  the 
king's  will  to  shew  favour  to  her,  the  sum  aforesaid  to  be  taken  every 
year  of  the  said  customs  by  the  hands  of  the  collectors  during  the  life 
of  Mary  countess  of  Pembroke,  who  by  the  king's  grant  holds  the 
manor  of  Wodhorne  for  life  with  reversion  to  the  said  John  and  his 
heirs  ;  as  the  said  Elizabeth  died  26  May  in  the  22nd  year  of  the  reign, 
as  is  found  by  inquisition  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  Jolin  de 
Stanhope  mayor  of  the  town  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne  and  escheator 
therein,  and  the  said  Mary  is  yet  living. 

Membrane  9. 

Oct.  20.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Grymesby  and  the  king's 
Westminster,  searchers  in  the  port  thereof.  Order  to  dearrest  William  Jonesson  of 
Aberden  merchant  of  Scotland,  the  master  and  seamen  of  a  ship 
of  Flanders,  and  all  their  goods  and  chattels  arrested  by  the  mayor 
and  bailiffs  and  by  the  said  searchers,  suffering  the  said  William, 
the  master  and  seamen  ^^'ithout  let  to  lade  the  same  in  any  ship  they 
will  and  take  them  to  Scotland  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent, 
the  arrest  or  other  cause  whatsoever  notwithstanding  ;  as  lately  at 
the  suit  of  the  said  William,  who  alleged  that  he  laded  the  said  ship 
at  the  town  of  Lescluse  in  Flanders  with  divers  merchandise  to  take  to 
the  town  of  Aberden,  that  the  ship  Avhile  on  its  voyage  off  the  coast  of 
England  was  driven  by  a  storm  to  the  port  of  Grymesby,  that  the 
said  master  and  seamen  there  bought  victuals  for  their  maintenance, 
and  that  the  mayor  and  bailiffs,  pretending  that  the  truce  between 
the  king  and  the  Scots  was  not  kept,  contrary  to  the  form  thereof 
arrested  the  ship  and  the  men  and  goods  therein  for  that  they  had  no 
safe  conduct  of  the  king,  the  king  willing  that  the  said  truce  be  kept 
inviolate,  wherein  it  is  contained  that  ships  of  either  realm  on  passage 
by  sea  when  driven  by  storm,  or  to  get  refreshment  or  buy  victuals  for 
their  maintenance  they  shall  come  to  any  port  of  the  said  realms,  may 
there  come  and  abide  in  safety  and  pass  thence  at  their  pleasure,  by 
writ  commanded  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  and  the  searchers,  if  the  said 
ship  came  thither  as  aforesaid  and  no  goods  thereof  were  exposed  for 


42    EDWARD    III. 


441 


1368.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

sale,  to  dearrest  the  same  and  the  goods  therein,  suffering  the  masters, 
seamen  and  merchants  tliereof  to  go  their  way,  with  a  proviso  that 
answer  should  be  made  to  the  king  for  the  customs  of  goods  of  the 
said  ship  bought  and  sold,  if  any  there  were  ;  and  the  mayor  and 
bailiffs  and  the  searchers  signified  to  the  king  tliat  tliey  found  by 
inquisition,  before  them  taken,  that  the  said  William  called  Jonesson 
is  named  William  son  of  James  de  Aberden,  that  on  Friday  after  St.Peter 
and  St.  Paul  last  of  his  own  will  driven  by  no  storm  by  himself 
and  his  fellows  the  seamen  of  tlie  said  ship  he  came  to  the  said  port 
with  the  goods  and  chattels  therein,  and  without  knowledge  of  the 
master  and  bailiffs  and  of  the  searchers  by  the  hands  of  John  Grafe 
of  Lescluse  in  Flanders  exposed  for  sale  one  pipe  of  red  wine  of  his 
own  goods,  that  after  when  his  said  goods  and  chattels  in  the  said 
ship  were  by  them  arrested,  he  took  and  carried  away  from  the  said 
ship  contrary  to  their  will  his  said  goods  and  chattels,  namely  30 
silver  groats  {grotos)  in  coined  money  called  '  Lowys  grotes,'  vessels  of 
silver,  ingots  of  silver,  two  silver  clasps  and  three  gold  rings  to  the 
value  of  101.  in  contempt  of  the  king  breaking  the  said  arrest,  which 
goods  [were]  in  the  keeping  of  Walter  de  Welde  and  Robert  Davy  of 
Grymesby  appointed  to  make  search  there,  and  that  the  said  pipe  of 
red  wine  value  4  marks,  one  pipe  of  woad  price  5  marks,  three  casks 
of  '  waddasse  '  price  205.,  28  '  wey  '  of  large  {grossi)  salt  price  201. 
and  7  quarters  of  pease  price  145.  remain  in  their  keeping  ;  and  the 
king  would  not  that  the  said  truce  be  broken  in  any  wise  by  him  or  his 
subjects.  By  C. 

Oct.  20.  To  the  collectors  of  the  petty  custom,  and  to  William  Bretford 
Westminster,  the  king's  searcher  in  the  port  of  London.  Order  to  cause  all  the  gold 
and  silver  by  them  arrested  in  ships  of  John  Petresson  and  Lanus  Sotte, 
with  the  bags  wherein  the  same  was,  to  come  this  instant  Saturday  to 
the  exchequer  there  to  be  delivered  to  the  treasurer  and  the  chamber- 
lains, and  all  other  the  goods  arrested  in  the  said  ships,  and  in  a  ship 
of  Peter  Gyssilkyn,  to  be  taken  before  the  collectors  of  the  great  custom 
of  London  and  appraised,  and  then  to  be  safe  kept  with  the  ship  of 
the  said  Lanus  until  further  order,  certifiying  the  appraisement  thereof 
in  chancery  ;  as  the  said  collectors  and  searcher  have  signified  to 
the  king  that  they  found  in  the  ship  of  the  said  John  uncustomed  a 
breastplate,  four  aventails  and  two  yards  of  woollen  cloth  of  Herman 
Manard,  a  breastplate  of  Godekin  Finthorp  and  14Z.  of  gold  with  a 
Lumbard  called  Gentiel  Gascoigne,  in  the  ship  of  the  said  Lanus 
a  bag  with  gold  in  coin  of  Clasy  Groote  merchant  of  Almain,  a  bag 
with  gold  of  William  de  Bristol!  merchant,  two  girdles  of  silver  gilt 
of  a  knight  of  Almain  it  is  said,  which  gold  and  girdles  were  by  assent 
of  the  shipmaster  concealed  in  the  said  ship  in  privy  places,  and  in 
the  ship  of  the  said  Peter  22  '  cappes  '  of  wool  and  two  small  pieces 
of  blariket  uncustomed,  all  to  be  taken  without  warrant  to  foreign 
parts  contrary  to  the  king's  prohibition,  and  that  for  that  cause 
they  arrested  all  the  gold,  silver  and  other  goods  aforesaid  as  forfeit 
to  the  king's  use  together  with  the  ship  of  Lanus  Sotte.  By  C. 

Oct.  20.  To  the  collectors  of  the  petty  custom,  and  to  William  Bretford  the 

Westminster,  king's  searcher  in  the  port  of  London.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of 

Godekyn  Fynthorp,  to  dearrest  and  dehver  to  him  one  habergeon  by 

them  arrested,  to  make  his  advantage  thei'eof ;    as  his  petition  shews 


442 


CALENDAR   OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1868. 


Membrane  9 — cont. 


that  he  brought  one  habergeon  from  Flanders  to  the  city  of  London 
for  sale,  and  for  that  it  might  not  there  be  sold  to  his  advantage,  put 
it  in  a  sliip  of  John  Petresson  to  take  again  to  Flanders,  and  that  the 
collectors  and  searcher  have  arrested  and  are  detaining  the  same  as 
forfeit  to  the  king,  wherefore  he  has  prayed  for  restitution  ;  and  the 
said  Godekyn  has  made  oath  before  the  king  in  chancery  that  he  brought 
the  said  habergeon  to  London  for  the  cause  stated  and  for  none  other, 
and  put  it  in  the  said  ship  as  aforesaid.  By  0. 

The  like  \vrit  for  Herman  Manard,  concerning  one  habergeon  and 
four  aventails. 

Oct.  22.  To  William  Latymer  justice  of  the  king's  forest  beyond  Trent,  or 

Westminster,  to  his  representative  in  Shirewode  forest.  Order  to  remove  the 
king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  Wirsop  park  ;  as  lately 
the  lung  commanded  the  said  justice  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause 
wherefore  he  took  the  said  park  into  the  king's  hand,  and  he  certified 
that  he  did  so  on  the  feast  of  St.  Giles  last  for  that  he  found  therein 
three  stags  of  harts  {staggos  cervorum)  ;  and  the  king  considers  the 
taking   thereof   insufficient.  By   C. 


Oct.  20.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull,  and 

Westminster,  to  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  thereof.  Order  to  make  in- 
quisition by  the  oath  of  true  men,  as  well  merchants  as  others,  whether 
John  Williamesson  of  Middelburgh  would  have  sailed  to  Newcastle 
upon  Tyne  with  his  ship  and  33^  sterling  to  buy  coals  there  or  no, 
and  if  they  shall  so  find  that  such  was  their  (sic)  will,  to  dearrest  the 
said  ship  and  money  and  restore  them  to  him,  taking  security  of  him 
that  he  will  sail  thither  for  the  purpose  aforesaid  and  to  no  other 
parts  until  his  ship  be  laded  with  such  coals,  and  if  the  contrary  be 
found  to  keep  the  said  ship  and  money  under  arrest  until  further 
order,  certifying  their  action  in  chancery  before  Martinmas  next ; 
as  by  complaint  of  the  said  John  the  king  has  learned  that  a  ship  of 
his,  laded  at  Lespruce  with  divers  merchandise  to  be  brought  to  the 
port  of  Kyngeston,  was  by  Herman  van  the  ^A■  erde  merchant  of  Lubyk 
freighted  for  33?.  to  be  paid  to  the  said  John  for  himself  and  his  fellows 
the  seamen  thefeof,  that  the  said  Herman  paid  him  the  money  at 
Kyngeston,  the  ship  being  there  unladed,  that  having  received  pay- 
ment in  presence  of  John  Taverner  his  host,  he  hired  two  lodemen, 
one  called  Robert  the  other  Simon,  to  take  him  and  his  ship  to  New- 
castle there  to  buy  coals  with  the  said  money,  and  that  when  the 
ship  was  ready  to  sail  the  king's  searchers  and  the  controller  of  the 
customs  came  and  entered  the  ship,  and  finding  therein  the  said  money, 
took  it  and  arrested  the  ship  as  forfeit  to  the  king,  and  are  unlawfully 
keeping  the  ship  and  money  under  arrest,  wherefore  he  has  prayed 
for  restitution  thereof. 

Oct.  20.  To  the  steward  or  bailiff  of  the  Isle  of  Wight,  or  to  his  representative. 

Westminster.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  Breton  master  of  a  little  ship  of 
Normandy,  to  dearrest  the  said  John,  the  said  ship  and  the  seamen 
therein,  suffering  them  to  go  their  way,  any  command  of  the  king  to 
the  said  steward  or  bailiff  addressed  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding  ; 
as  the  said  petition  shews  that  the  said  John  caused  the  said  ship  laded 
with  fish  bought  in  Normandy  by  Nicholas  le  Hostiller  of  Suthampton 
to  be  brought  to  Suthampton  to  the  house  of  the  said  Nicholas,  that 


42   EDWARD    III.  443 


13(58,  Membrane  9 — cont. 

on  }iis  return  to  his  own  parts  after  unlading  the  said  sliip  in  that  port 
lie  was  [driven]  by  a  storm  to  the  town  of  St.  Helen,  and  was  with 
liis  ship  arrested  by  colour  of  the  king's  command  concerning  the 
arrest  of  aliens  coming  within  the  said  island,  praying  to  be  dearrested  ; 
and  the  king  is  fully  informed  concerning  the  premises,  and  that  the 
said  John  was  for  particular  causes  sent  to  England  on  behalf  of 
Jolin  de  Chandos. 

Membrane  8. 

Nov.  11,  To  all  and  singular  the  sheriffs,  mayors,  bailiffs,  ministers  and  other 
Westminster,  the  king's  Ueges  to  whom  etc.  Order  to  suffer  William  de  Wykeham 
now  bishop  of  \Vinchester,  all  his  men  and  the  tenants  of  his  lands  and 
fees,  when  they  sliall  come  with  their  goods  and  property  whatsoever 
within  the  bailiwicks  and  districts  of  the  said  sheriffs  and  others,  to 
be  quit  of  the  payment  of  toll,  pontage,  passage,  payage,  lestage, 
stallage,  tallage,  carriage,  pavage,  murage,  pesage,  quayage,  pikage, 
terrage  and  every  other  custom  for  the  same  according  to  the  charters 
of  former  kings  and  the  king's  confirmation  thereof,  not  troubling  them 
in  aught  contrary  to  those  charters,  releasing  any  distraint  upon  them 
made,  and  restoring  any  thing  for  that  cause  taken  of  them  or  any  of 
them  ;  as  amongst  other  liberties  granted  to  the  bishop  of  Winchester 
and  his  successors,  as  well  by  charter  of  King  Edgar  as  by  divers  other 
charters  of  divers  kings,  it  is  granted  that  he  and  his  successors,  their 
men  and  the  tenants  of  their  lands  and  lees  shall  be  quit  of  the  customs 
aforesaid  and  of  every  other  custom,  also  of  all  tronage  throughout 
the  king's  land  and  power  save  the  tronage  used  in  places  where  wool 
to  be  taken  out  of  the  realm  is  customed  and  weighed  by  those  to 
whom  that  office  shall  be  granted  by  the  king  or  his  heirs ;  and  the 
king  lately  by  charter  confirmed  those  charters,  and  farther  granted 
the  then  bishop  that  he  and  his  successors  should  thenceforward  fully 
use  and  enjoy  the  said  liberties  and  every  of  them  although  heretofore 
they  did  not  use  the  same,  and  that  he,  his  men  and  tenants  aforesaid 
and  their  successors  should  throughout  the  king's  realm  and  power 
be  quit  of  the  customs  aforesaid  upon  all  their  property  which  they 
shall  cause  to  be  carried  by  land  and  by  water. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Nov.  6.  To  Thomas  Cheyne  escheator  in  Devon.     Order  to  cause  Hugh  de 

Westminster.  Courteneye  earl  of  Devon  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage,  one  carucate 
of  land,  8  acres  of  wood,  heath  and  furze  arid  22s.  of  rent  in  Loghing- 
cote,  held  by  Jolm  de  Loghingcote  outlawed  for  felony  it  is  said  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
the  premises  have  been  in  his  hand  a  year  and  a  day,  that  the  said 
John  held  them  of  the  said  earl,  and  that  John  Gary  had  the  year 
and  a  day  and  the  waste  thereoi,  and  ought  to  answer  to  the  king  for 
the  same. 

Oct.  26.  To  the  chancellor  of  Ireland  for  the  time  being.     Order  to  deliver 

Westminster,  to  John  de  Hastynges,  son  and  heir  of  LaAvrence  de  Hastyngges  earl 
of  Pembroke  tenant  in  chief,  all  the  lands  in  Ireland,  as  well  of  his 
said  father  as  those  held  in  dower  or  otherwise  for  life  of  his  heritage 
by  Agnes  who  was  wife  of  the  said  late  earl  and  by  Juliana  late  countess 
of  Huntyngdon  and  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  their  death,  together 
with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since  12  September  last ;    as  on  that 


444 


CALENDAR   OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1368. 


Membrane  8 — cont. 


day  the  said  John's  age  was  proved,  and  the  king  took  his  homage 
and  fealty,  and  commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  all  the  lands  in 
England  of  his  said  father,  and  of  those  held  as  aforesaid  by  the  said 
Agnes  and  Juliana. 

Oct.  30.  To  Edmund  Savage  escheator  in  Notyngham-shire.     Order  to  take 

Westminster,  of  Francis  de  Meryng,  son  of  Thomas  de  Meryng  and  Elizabeth  his 
wife,  security  for  payment  of  his  reUef  at  the  exchequer,  and  to  cause 
him  to  have  seisin  of  the  site  of  a  msssuage  in  Little  Markham  and 
40  acres  of  land  in  the  said  town  and  in  Tuxford  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  the  said  Thomas,  but  not  to  meddle  further  with 
the  manor  of  Meryng,  10  acres  of  land  and  5  acres  of  meadow  in  Meryng 
likewise  taken  into  the  king's  hand  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  in- 
quisition, taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Thomas  at  his  death 
held  the  premises  in  Little  Markham  and  Tuxford  in  chief  by  knight 
service  by  the  courtesy  of  England  after  the  death  of  the  said 
Elizabeth,  and  the  said  manor  and  premises  in  Meryng  of  others  than 
the  king,  and  that  the  said  Francis  is  next  heir  as  well  of  the  said 
Thomas  as  of  the  said  Elizabeth  and  of  full  age  ;  and  the  king  has 
taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [27655.] 

Vacated  because  upon  the  Fine  Roll. 

Nov.  18.  To  Henry  de  Ingelby  the  king's  trlerk,  warden  of  the  House  of  the 
Westminster.  Converted  London.  Order  to  cause  265.  Sd.  yearly  of  the  rents  and 
other  profits  of  the  said  house  to  be  ministered  to  John  de  Sancta 
Maria  in  Spain  over  and  above  40s.  a  year  which  the  said  warden  has 
appointed  to  be  to  him  dehvered  as  the  king  has  learned  ;  as  the  said 
John,  who  was  long  since  converted  from  the  superstition  of  the 
Jews  to  the  Christian  faith,  and  to  whom  the  king  commanded  that 
maintenance  should  be  ministered  by  the  said  warden  such  as 
one  of  the  converted  was  wont  to  take,  has  repaired  to  thf^  king  praying 
for  more  abundant  favour,  as  the  said  sum  of  40s.  a  year  is  too  small 
for  his  maintenance  and  the  maintenance  of  his  wife  and  childreD, 
and  the  king  would  add  somewhat  in  aid  of  his  living  that  he  may 
have  the  more  willing  mind  to  abide  in  the  cathoUc  faith.  By  K. 


Nov.  20.  To  Andi-ew  de  Guldeford,  John  Maykyn  and  to  William 
Westminster.  Briddeford  the  searcher  in  the  port  of  London.  Order  to  cause  so 
much  of  the  goods  arrested  in  the  ships  of  John  Petresson,  Lanus 
Sotte  and  Peter  Gissilkyn  as  is  to  be  appraised  and  sold  to  be 
appraised  and  sold  without  delay  to  the  king's  best  advantage, 
and  likewise  the  ship  of  the  said  Lanus,  and  to  the  said  searcher 
to  safe  keep  until  further  order  the  money  arising  from  the  sale 
thereof,  certifying  in  chancery  under  their  seals  the  appraisement 
and  sale  thereof  and  all  their  action  in  the  matter ;  as  lately 
the  said  searcher  having  signified  to  the  king  that  the  collectors  of 
the  petty  custom  in  the  said  port  found  in  the  said  John's  ship  un- 
customed a  breastplate,  four  aventails  and  two  yards  of  woollen 
cloth  of  Herman  Manard,  a  breastplate  of  Godekyn  Fynthorp,  and 
14/,  of  gold  of  a  Lumbard  called  Gentiel  Gascoigne,  in  the  ship  of 
the  said  Lanus  a  bag  \vith  gold  in  coin  of  Claysy  Groote  merchant  of 
Almain,  a  bag  with  gold  of  William  de  Bristoll  merchant,  two  girdles 
of  silver  gilt  of  a  knight  of  Almain  it  is  said,  all  with  the  assent  of 
the  shipmaster  concealed  in  the  said  ship  in  privy  places,  and  in  the 


42   EDWARD  III.  446 


1868.  Memhrane  8 — coni. 

said  Peter's  ship  22  '  cappes  '  of  wool  and  two  small  pieces  of  blanket 
uncustomed  to  be  taken  without  warrant  to  foreign  parts  contrary  to 
the  king's  prohibition,  and  that  they  arrested  as  forfeit  to  the  king's 
use  for  that  cause  all  the  gold,  silver  and  goods  aforesaid  with  the 
ship  of  the  said  Lanus,  the  king  ordered  the  collectors  and  the  said 
searcher  to  cause  the  gold  and  silver  and  the  bags  aforesaid  to  be 
brought  to  the  exchequer  there  to  be  delivered  to  the  treasurer  and 
the  chamberlains,  and  all  the  other  goods  to  be  brought  before  the 
collectors  of  the  great  custom  of  London  and  appraised,  and  then  to 
be  safe  kept  until  further  order  with  the  ship  of  the  said  Lanus  ;  and 
the  collectors  of  the  great  custom  may  not  attend  to  the  appraising  of 
the  said  goods,  as  the  king  has  learned.  By  C. 

Nov.  28.  To  the  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Canterbury.  Writ  de  intendendo  in 
Westminster,  fs^vour  of  Idonea  and  Constance  sisters  of  William  son  of  John  Condy 
of  Sandwyc,  Robert  Crobbe  who  has  taken  to  wife  Margaret  another 
sister,  William  Makenhad  who  has  taken  to  wife  Margaret  {sic)  another 
sister,  and  the  next  friend  of  Thomas  Wathenden  son  of  Alice  the 
fifth  sister,  directing  the  bailiffs  of  the  farm  of  the  said  city  to  pay 
them  every  year  30Z.  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent,  taking 
their  acquittance  term  by  term  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken 
at  the  king's  command  by  John  de  Bisshopeston  escheator  in  Kent, 
that  the  said  William  son  of  John  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that 
county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  took  of 
the  king  yearly  30Z.  to  him  and  his  heirs  of  the  farm  of  the  said  city 
by  the  hands  of  the  bailiffs  thereof  for  the  time  being,  namely  lOl. 
at  Easter  and  201.  at  Michaelmas,  that  he  died  5  September  last, 
and  that  Idonea,  Margaret,  Margery  and  Constance  his  sisters  and  the 
said  Thomas  son  of  Alice  are  his  next  heirs,  the  said  Idonea,  Margaret, 
Margery  and  Constance  being  of  full  age  and  the  said  Thomas  of  the 
age  of  4  years  and  upwards  ;  and  on  1  October  in  the  29th  year  of  his 
reign,  in  recompense  for  the  baihAvick  of  the  town  of  Sandwyc  which  the 
king  lately  gave  to  John  son  of  William  Condy  of  Sandwyc  and  his 
heirs  for  ever,  and  the  said  Wilham  son  of  John,  being  son  and  heir 
of  the  said  John  son  of  William,  after  his  father's  death  surrendered 
to  the  king's  hands  at  his  command,  the  king  by  letters  patent  gave  to 
him  and  his  heirs  the  said  yearly  sum  of  the  farm  of  the  said  city 
to  be  taken  as  aforesaid. 

May  25.  To  the  abbot  of  Bruera.  Order,  for  particular  causes,  to  have 
Westminster,  before  the  council  at  Westminster  in  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas 
next  a  charter  of  King  Richard  concerning  liberties  granted  by  the 
said  king  to  his  predecessors  the  abbots  of  that  place  in  the  first  year 
of  liis  reign,  and  all  other  charters  affecting  the  liberties  of  that  house 
and  confirmations  thereof,  and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  shall 
by  the  council  be  then  determined.  By  K. 

Vacated  because  otherwise  on  the  dorse  of  this  roll. 

Membrane  7. 

Nov.  20.         To  the  sheriff  of   Suffolk.      Order  to  cause  Edmund  de  Brundissh 

Westminster,  clerk  to  have  seisin  of  part  of  a  messuage  in  Brundissh  and  a  piece  of 

land  there  containing  2  acres,  Robert  de  Ufford  earl  of  Suffolk  of 


446 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1368. 


Membrane  1 — cont. 


the  residue  of  the  said  messuage,  3|  acres  of  land,  one  acre  of  meadow 
and  one  acre  of  pasture  there,  John  de  Pishale  of  3  acres  of  land,  and 
Massilia  Godde  and  Joan  her  sister  of  2|  acres  of  land  in  Brundissh, 
all  held  by  Thomas  Geoffrey  of  Dymyngton  outlawed  for  felony  it  is 
said ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  a  messuage,  1 1  acres  of  land  and  one  acre  of  meadow  in  Brundissh 
held  by  the  said  Thomas  have  been  in  his  hand  a  year  and  a  day,  that 
he  held  them  of  the  said  Edmund,  the  said  earl,  John,  Massilia  and 
Joan  as  aforesaid,  and  that  Roger  de  Wolfreton  the  escheator  had 
the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste  thereof  and  ought  to  answer  to  the 
king  for  the  same. 

Nov.  6.  To  John  Benet  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.     Order  not  to  meddle 

Westminster,  further  with  the  manor  of  Hurst,  22  marks  of  rent  in  the  manor  of 
Frompton,  and  \2l.  10s.  of  rent  in  the  manor  of  Camme  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Maurice  son  of  Thomas  de  Berkele, 
delivering  to  Elizabeth  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
said  Maurice  at  his  death  held  the  premises  jointly  with  the  said 
Elizabeth  of  the  gift  of  Thomas  de  Berkele  his  father  to  them  and 
the  heirs  male  of  their  bodies,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others 
than  the  king. 

Nov.  24.  To  John  de  Bisshopeston  escheator  in  Kent.  Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  priory  and  church 
of  Bilsyngton,  delivering  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Bilsyngton  any 
issues  thereof  taken,  although  it  was  found  by  inquisition,  taken  of 
his  office  by  John  de  Ty  late  escheator,  that  the  said  priory  is  of  the 
foundation  of  former  kings,  and  was  by  the  king's  forefathers  charged 
to  find  seven  canons  chaplains  to  celebrate  for  the  souls  of  his  said 
forefathers  and  of  the  faithful  departed,  four  of  which  canons  are 
withdrawn  for  sixteen  years  past  to  the  king's  prejudice  and  disherison, 
that  the  temporalities  given  by  the  king's  forefathers  are  worth  20Z. 
a  year,  and  that  the  said  prior  has  acquhed  the  advowson  of  the  said 
church  of  the  prior  of  Bosegrove  and  appropriated  the  same  to  him 
and  his  house,  whether  of  the  king's  allegiance  or  not  is  not  known ; 
as  it  is  plain  by  divers  charters  of  the  said  prior  and  convent,  pro- 
duced in  chancery,  that  one  John  Maunsel  provost  of  Beverley 
appointed  that  a  house  of  religion  should  be  founded,  that  he  granted 
and  assigned  in  frank  almoin  to  the  foundation  and  endowment  thereof 
a  part  of  his  manor  of  Bilsyngton,  which  he  had  of  the  gift  of  Hugh 
then  earl  of  Arundell,  and  his  whole  land  of  Poke,  Gozehale  and  Etche, 
to  be  held  by  God  and  St.  Mary,  William  then  prior  and  the  canons 
at  Bilsyngton  and  their  successors  for  ever,  wilhng  that  such  canons 
should  be  maintained  with  the  fruits  and  issues  thereof,  to  be  assessed 
according  to  their  number  and  the  means  thereof,  that  after  King 
Henry  III  confirmed  that  foundation  and  grant  although  the  land 
of  Bilsyngton  was  of  his  serjeanty,  and  later  by  a  fine  with  him  made 
by  the  said  prior  and  canons  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  licence 
to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Bosegrove  to  give  the  advowson  of 
Bilsyngton  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Bilsyngton  and  their  suc- 
cessors, and  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Bilsyngton  to  receive  the 
said  advowson  and  to  appropriate  and  hold  the  said  church  without 
let  of  the  king,  his  heirs  or  ministers  whatsoever. 


42   EDWARD    III. 


447 


1368. 

Oct.  [*]. 
Westininstor. 


Membrane  1 — coni. 


To  Edward  prince  of  Aquitaine  the  king's  firstborn  son,  his  justice 
of  Wales,  or  the  representative  of  the  said  justice.  Notice  to  do  what 
of  right  ought  to  be  done  according  to  the  laws  (foros)  and  customs  of 
Wales  in  regard  to  the  livery  of  the  lands  in  that  principality  of  the 
heritage  of  Jolin  de  Hastynges,  son  and  heir  of  Lawrence  de  Hastynges 
earl  of  Pembroke  tenant  in  chief,  which  are  in  the  prince's  wardship  by 
reason  of  the  said  John's  nonage  ;  as  by  inspection  of  the  rolls  of 
chancery  the  king  is  assured  that  on  12  September  last,  on  proof  of 
the  said  John's  age,  the  king  took  his  homage  and  fealty  as  well  for 
the  lands  held  by  his  father  as  for  those  which  Agnes  who  was  wife 
of  the  said  earl  and  Juliana  late  countess  of  Huntyngdon  at  their 
deaths  held  in  dower  or  otherwise  for  life  of  his  heritage,  and  com- 
manded livery  thereof  to  be  given  him. 

Nov.  13.  To  Richard  de  Wydeville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.  Order 
Westminster,  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  lands  which  Alice  who  was  wife  of 
Thomas  Bosoun  held  by  knight  service  as  well  of  the  abbey  of  Peter- 
borough lately  void  and  in  the  king's  hand  as  of  the  heir  of  John 
Trayly  tenant  in  chief,  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  her  death  and  by  reason  of  the  vacancy  of  the  said 
abbey  and  of  the  nonage  of  John  Trayly  son  and  heir  of  the  said  John, 
and  yet  in  his  hand  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  Henry  Bosoun  son 
and  heir  of  the  said  Alice  ;  as  the  said  Henry  has  proved  his  age 
before  the  escheator,  and  on  10  November  in  the  35th  year  of  his 
reign  the  king  took  the  fealty  of  Henry  de  Overton  now  abbot  of 
Peterborough  and  restored  to  him  the  temporahties  of  the  said 
abbey,  and  after  on  18  June  in  the  39tli  year  the  age  of  the  said  John 
Trayly  the  son  was  proved,  and  the  king  took  his  homage  and  com- 
manded Hvery  to  be  given  him  of  his  father's  lands. 

Nov.  16.  To  Leo  de  Perton  escheator  of  Worcestershire.  Order  not  to 
Westminster,  meddle  further  with  the  lands  which  Thomas  de  Hastyngges  held  by 
knight  service  of  the  heir  of  Lawrence  de  Hastyngges  earl  of  Pembroke 
tenant  in  chief,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  the  said 
Thomas  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  earl's  heir,  and  yet 
in  his  hand  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  Bartholomew  son  and  heir 
of  the  said  Thomas  ;  as  the  said  Bartholomew  has  proved  his  age 
before  the  escheator,  and  on  12  September  last  the  age  of  John  de 
Hastyngges  son  and  heir  of  the  said  earl  was  proved,  and  the  king  took 
his  homage,  and  commanded  hvery  to  be  given  him  of  his  father's 
lands. 


Nov.  6.  To  Simon  de  Mordon  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator 

Westminster,  therein.  Order  to  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further 
Avith  a  tenement  and  two  shops  thereto  adjoining  in  Menchenlane 
in  the  parish  of  St.  Dunstan  '  Est '  in  London  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  John  Cory  clerk,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  mayor, 
that  the  said  John  at  his  death  held  the  premises  of  the  king  in  free 
burgage  as  all  the  said  city  is  held,  and  that  William  de  Hynelond, 
son  of  Hugh  de  Hynelond  brother  of  the  said  John,  is  his  next  heir 
and  of  full  age. 


*  The  day  left  blank. 


U8 


CALENDAR   OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1368.  Membrane  6. 

Dec.  1.  To  the  justiciary,  the  chancellor  and  the  treasurer  of  Ireland  and 

Westminstor.  others  of  the  council  in  Ireland.  Order  to  summon  as  soon  as  may 
be  a  parUament  or  great  council  of  the  prelates,  nobles  and  other 
the  king's  lieges  of  Ireland  whom  they  shall  see  fit  to  summon  at  a 
day  and  place  to  be  by  them  appointed,  to  cause  certain  ordinances 
touching  the  guidance  and  reformation  of  Ireland  made  by  the  king 
by  assent  and  counsel  of  the  prelates,  nobles  and  others  of  his  council, 
whereof  the  king  is  sending  a  copy  under  the  great  seal  in  form  of 
patent  for  their  fuller  information,  to  be  shewn  in  full  parhament  or 
council  and  to  be  set  forth,  namely  whether  the  same  shall  be  for 
the  reformation  and  rehef  of  the  state  of  Ireland  according  to  theij: 
intent  and  the  intent  of  the  prelates,  nobles  and  other  heges  of  Ireland 
and  according  to  their  certificate  made  at  another  time  to  the  king 
or  no,  and  if  perad venture  fault  be  found  therein,  also  to  cause  ifc 
to  be  declared  and  agreed  by  advice  and  counsel  of  the  said  prelates, 
nobles  and  others  in  the  said  parliament  or  council  concerning  the 
fit  quota  to  be  required  of  the  nobles  and  other  men  who  are  before 
Easter  next  to  come  to  Ireland,  as  in  the  said  ordinances  contained, 
for  the  recovery,  defence  and  conquest  of  their  lands,  lordships  and 
heritage  in  Ireland,  how  much  and  what  land  and  lordships  they 
and  every  of  them  have,  the  true  yearly  value  of  the  same  of  old  time 
and  now,  their  number,  array  and  equipment  as  in  men  at  arms  and 
other  persons  according  to  their  portion  and  the  quantity  of  their 
said  lands  and  lordships,  certifying  in  the  chancery  of  England  under 
the  king's  seal  used  in  Ireland  and  by  letters  patent  under  the  sea,la 
of  the  prelates,  nobles  and  others  who  shall  come  to  the  said  parlia- 
ment or  council  those  things  which  shall  therein  be  agreed,  and  sending 
again  a  transcript  of  this  writ ;  as  after  deliberation  had  with  the 
prelates,  nobles  and  others  of  the  council  touching  the  hurt,  destruction., 
disturbance  and  loss  to  which  Ireland  is  subjected  by  the  Irish  and 
other  the  king's  enemies  and  rebels,  who  have  made  insurrection 
against  him  and  his  lieges,  whereof  the  justiciary,  chancellor,  treasurer 
and  others  have  lately  certified  him  as  well  by  messengers  as  by  letters, 
the  said  ordinances  were  made  as  aforesaid,  and  it  is  therein  contained 
that  every  man  having  or  claiming  lands,  lordships  or  other  rights  of 
inheritance  in  Ireland  and  abiding  in  England  shall  before  Easter  next 
cross  over  to  Ireland  with  his  household,  men  at  arms  and  others  in 
such  force  as  he  may  according  to  his  portion  and  the  quantity  of  such 
his  lands,  lordships  and  heritage  there  to  abide  continually  for  the 
purpose  aforesaid  ;  and  the  king  is  not  nor  may  be  clearly  assured 
concerning  the  quota  to  be  required  as  aforesaid.  By  K. 

Et  erat  patens. 

[Foedera.] 


Nov.  25.  To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Norffolk  and  Suffolk.  Order 
Westminster,  to  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  moiety 
of  the  manor  of  Ixeworth,  Id.  of  rent  in  the  said  moiety  and  the 
advowson  of  a  mediety  of  the  priory  of  Ixeworth  excepted,  dehvering 
to  the  prior  of  Ixeworth  any  issues  thereof  taken ;  as  lately  the  king 
ordered  the  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  the 
moiety  of  the  said  manor  was  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand, 
and  he  signified  that  he  so  took  the  same  for  that  he  found  by  in- 
quisition, taken  before  Edmund  de  Thorpe  and  the  escheator  who 
were  lately  appointed  to  make  inquisition  concerning  lands  aliened 


42    EDWARD    III.  449 


1368.  Membrane  6 — cont. 

and  appropiiated  without  tlie  king's  licence  and  concerning  other 
articles  in  tlieir  commission  contained,  that  the  said  prior  without  the 
king's  licence  appropriated  the  same  of  Roese  de  Pabenham  ;  and 
the  king  is  assuied  by  his  letters  patent,  produced  in  chancery  by  the 
said  prior,  that  on  11  July  in  tlio  25th  year  of  his  reign  he  granted 
licence  in  mortmain  to  the  said  Jioeso  to  enfeoff  the  prior  and  convent 
and  their  successors  of  a  moiety  of  the  said  manor,  the  rent  and 
advowson  aforesaid  excepted,  to  hold  of  the  king  and  his  heirs  towards 
the  maintenance  of  two  canons  chaplains  to  be  taken  to  the  said 
priory  for  increase  thereof  and  to  celebrate  every  day  in  the  priory 
church  for  the  souls  aforesaid  {sic)  according  to  an  ordinance  to  be 
made,  and  to  the  said  prior  and  convent  to  take  seisin  thereof  and 
grant  the  said  moiety,  with  the  exceptions  aforesaid,  to  the  said 
Roese  for  her  life,  with  remainder  to  Hervey  her  son  for  his  life,  and 
reversion  after  his  death,  if  he  should  survive  his  said  mother,  to  the 
said  prior  and  convent  and  to  their  successors,  to  be  held  of  the  king 
and  his  heirs  by  the  services  thereof  due  and  accustomed. 

Dec.  9.  To  the  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  to  take  seisin  in  the  name 

Westminster,  of  the  king's  lordship  within  the  gates  of  Selby  abbey,  now  void  by 
the  death  of  Geoffrey  de  Gaddesby  the  last  abbot,  and  not  to  meddle 
with  the  temporalities  of  the  said  abbey  or  with  any  goods  or  property 
thereto  belonging,  but  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent  to  suffer 
t.he  prior  and  convent  to  dispose  and  appoint  concerning  the  keeping 
of  the  said  temporalities,  and  of  all  goods  and  chattels  of  the  abbey  as 
they  shall  see  best,  saving  to  the  king  during  this  vacancy  the  knights' 
fees  and  advowsons  thereof,  and  the  issues  of  any  lands  by  the  abbot 
and  convent  acquired  since  16  July  in  the  14th  year  of  the  reign  ;  as 
on  that  day  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  the  then  abbot  and  the 
convent  that  at  every  vacancy  of  the  said  abbey  by  death,  cession, 
resignation  or  otherwise  the  prior  and  convent  and  their  successors 
should  have  the  keeping  thereof  and  of  all  the  temporalities  thereof 
and  of  all  property  and  goods  thereto  belonging  as  fully  as  any  abbot 
had  in  times  past  when  the  see  was  filled,  or  as  the  king  might  or 
ought  to  have  had  in  times  of  a  vacancy  if  the  same  were  kept  in  his 
hand,  so  that  they  should  have  free  administration  of  the  said  tempor- 
alities, property  and  goods,  taking  all  emoluments,  and  might  thereof 
dispose  as  they  should  see  best,  saving  to  the  king  during  such 
vacancies  the  knight's  fees  and  advowsons,  rendering  to  the  king 
during  a  vacancy  80Z.  for  the  whole  time  a  vacancy  should  last,  so 
that  no  escheator,  sheriff,  bailiff  or  minister  of  the  king  should  by 
reason  of  such  vacancy  meddle  with  the  keeping  of  the  abbey,  the 
manors,  granges,  property  or  goods  whatsoever  thereto  belonging, 
except  that  in  the  beginning  of  every  vacancy  the  escheator  or 
other  minister  of  the  king  for  the  time  being  should  in  the 
name  of  the  king's  lordship  take  a  simple  seisin  and  immediately 
withdi'aw  without  taking  fealty  or  acknowledgment  of  any  tenant 
of  the  abbey  and  without  taking  or  carrying  aught  away,  so  that  he 
should  not  there  abide  longer  than  one  day  nor  leave  any  substitute 
in  his  room. 

The  hke  to  the  follomng  : 

Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire. 

The  escheator  in  Leycestershire. 

Richard  Wydeville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire. 

E  29 


450  CALENDAR   OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1368.  Membrane  5. 

Nov.  30.  To  Simon  de  Mordon  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator 
Westminster,  therein.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Thomas  Rudde  now  chaplain  of 
a  chantry  in  the  church  of  St.  John  Zakary  for  the  soul  of  Master 
Thomas  Lychefeld  physician,  if  the  tenements  and  shops  contained 
in  a  certificate  of  James  Andreu  late  mayor  of  the  said  city  and  escheator 
are  the  same  tenements  and  rent  specified  under  the  name  of  houses 
and  rent  in  letters  patent  of  the  late  king  hereinafter  recited,  to  remove 
the  king's  hand  and  not  meddle  further  therewith,  delivering  to  the  said 
chaplain  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  the  king  commanded  the 
said  James  Andreu  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  he  took 
into  the  king's  hand  all  the  tenements  of  the  said  physician  in  the 
parishes  of  St.  Jolm  Zakary  and  St.  Michael  in  Hoggenlane  London, 
and  he  certified  that  he  found  by  inquisition,  before  him  taken  of  his 
office,  that  the  said  physician  at  his  death  was  seised  in  his  demesne 
as  of  fee  of  one  tenement  and  five  shops  in  the  said  parish  of  St.  John 
and  of  one  other  tenement  and  one  shop  in  the  said  parish  of  St.  Michael, 
that  after  the  publication  of  the  statute  of  mortmain  by  his  will,  proved, 
pubUshed  and  enrolled  in  the  busting  of  London  holden  on  Monday 
the  morrow  of  St.  Barnabas  29  Edward  I,  he  bequeathed  the  premises 
to  Master  Thomas  le  Brun  under  this  form,  that  neither  he  nor  any 
by  him  might  aHen,  sell  or  pledge  the  same  in  whole  or  in  part,  but 
of  part  of  the  property  thereof  arising  he  should  find  a  chaplain 
celebrating  as  aforesaid  in  the  said  church  of  St.  John,  and  if  the  said 
Thomas  le  Brun  should  be  advanced  to  any  ecclesiastical  benefice  or 
be  dead,  straightway  four  parishioners  of  St.  John  should  elect  and 
present  to  the  official  of  the  archdeacon  of  London  a  chaplain 
so  to  celebrate,  who  should  have  the  premises  for  ever,  that 
after  the  said  physician's  death  immediately  Thomas  le  Brun  was 
seised  of  the  premises  and  held  them  during  his  life,  finding  a  chaplain 
according  to  the  effect  of  the  said  Avill,  that  the  said  Thomas  Rudde 
now  holds  the  premises  and  is  thereof  seised  by  virtue  of  that  bequest, 
celebrating  as  aforesaid,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  the  king  in 
free  burgage  as  all  the  city  of  London,  certifying  that  for  that  reason 
the  premises  are  taken  into  the  king's  hand  ;  and  on  29  May  in  the 
14th  year  of  his  reign  the  late  king  by  letters  patent  pardoned  the 
trespass  of  the  said  physician  in  that  by  his  testament  in  his  last  will  after 
the  publication  of  the  said  statute,  Avithout  hcence  of  King  Edward  I  or 
of  the  late  king,  he  bequeathed  to  Thomas  le  Brun  all  his  houses  in  the 
said  parishes  of  St.  John  and  St.  Michael  and  \2d.  of  yearly  rent  under 
the  form  above  rehearsed  for  a  priest,  who  should  have  the  said  houses 
for  ever,  and  the  said  king  granted  so  far  as  in  him  lay  to  William  de 
Wodestrete,  then  admitted  to  the  said  chantry  by  the  said  official  at  the 
presentation  of  the  four  parishioners,  that  he  should  again  have  and 
hold  to  him  and  his  successors  chaplains  celebrating  as  aforesaid  for 
ever  the  said  houses  and  rent,  which  by  reason  of  the  said  trespass 
were  taken  into  the  late  king's  hand  ;  wherefore  the  said  now  chaplain 
has  prayed  for  removal  of  the  king's  hand  from  the  said  tenements 
and  shops  and  for  the  issues  thereof,  as  the  tenements  and  shops  in 
tlie  certificate  contained  are  the  same  as  the  houses  and  \2d.  of  rent 
specified  in  the  said  pardon. 

Nov.  26.         To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Norffolk.    Order  to  remove  the 

Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with,  the  manor  of  Hapesburgh, 

delivering    to  the  prior  of  Wymondham  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 


42   EDWARD    III. 


451 


13G8. 


Menthrane  5 — cant. 


as  lately  tlio  king  ordered  the  esolieator  to  certify  in  chancery  the 
cause  wlicrofoie  he  took  the  said  manor  into  the  king's  hand,  and  he 
signified  that  he  so  took  the  same  for  that  it  was  found  before 
Edmund  de  Thorpe  and  the  escheator  and  otlier  lieges,  being  appointed 
by  tlie  king  to  make  inquisition  touching  alienations  to  mortmain 
made  without  the  king's  licence  and  other  articles,  that  the  manor 
of  Haselburgh  was  without  licence  of  the  king  given,  by  whom  the 
jurors  know  not,  to  the  prior  of  Wymondham  and  his  successors  under 
a  condition  that  they  should  repair,  erect  and  complete  one  tower 
at  the  priory  church  of  Wymondham  called  '  le  Stepel,'  with  reversion 
when  that  should  be  fully  done  to  the  right  heirs  of  the  donor,  and  tliat 
the  prior  would  not  repair  the  said  tower,  and  for  that  the  said  prior's 
manor  of  Happesburgh  is  by  many  in  the  country  called  Hasilburgh, 
and  the  prior  holds  no  other  manor  of  that  name  ;  and  it  is  clear  by 
a  charter  of  William  de  Albeneye  butler  of  King  Henry  I  produced 
in  chancery,  which  the  said  king  by  his  charter  confirmed,  that  he  gave 
in  frank  almoin  to  the  then  prior  and  convent  of  Wymundham 
William  de  Happesburgh  with  his  appurtenances,  wherefore  the  king 
considers  the  taking  of  the  said  manor  insufficient. 

Dec.  20.  To  J.  bishop  of  Ely  the  treasurer.     Order  to  call  before  him  Gauter 

Westminster,  de  Bardes  and  other  credible  persons  dwelling  in  the  city  of  London, 
and  if  they  will  bear  witness  that  Giles  Centmarz  is  a  true  merchant 
of  Flanders,  to  cause  six  horses  by  him  bought  in  Scotland  and  by 
the  bailiffs  of  Scardeburgh  arrested  to  be  dearrested  and  dehvered  to 
the  said  Giles  with  a  writ  which  the  king  is  sending  concerning  the 
passage  of  the  said  horses  to  the  town  of  Calais,  suffering  the  said 
Giles  without  let  to  pass  thither  with  the  said  horses,  and  commanding 
the  said  bailiffs  by  letters  to  dearrest  a  ship  of  Lescluse  in  Flanders 
wherein  were  the  said  horses,  the  master  and  seamen  thereof,  and 
suffer  them  to  take  it  whither  they  will  to  their  advantage  ;  as  the 
said  bailiffs  have  signified  to  the  king  that  the  said  ship  touched  at 
that  port  with  the  said  horses  to  be  taken  to  France  it  is  said,  and 
that  because  they  were  not  assured  of  what  country  is  the  said  Giles, 
nor  for  what  cause  he  bought  the  said  horses,  they  arrested  him  and 
the  ship,  the  master  and  seamen  thereof,  and  sent  the  said  Giles  with 
the  horses  to  the  king  for  his  orders  thereupon  ;  and  the  said  Giles 
appearing  before  the  Idng  in  chancery  says  that  he  is  a  merchant  of 
Flanders,  as  may  be  witnessed  by  the  said  Gauter  and  other  credible 
persons,  and  truly  bought  the  said  horses  in  Scotland  to  make  his 
advantage  thereof,  praying  that  they  may  be  dearrested  and  dehvered 
to  him  to  take  to  Flanders.  By  C. 


Nov.  28.  To  Roger  de  Wolfreton  escheator  in  Essex  and  Hertfordshire. 
Westminster.  Order  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of  Little  Bentele 
CO.  Essex,  Pelham  Forneus  and  Thiderisham  co.  Hertford  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Wilham  Gros,  delivering  up  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  divers  iaquisitions,  taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  William  son  and  heir  of  Hugh  Gros, 
tenant  by  knight  service  of  the  heir  of  Edward  de  Monte  Acuto  tenant 
in  chief  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  died  within  age  and  in  the 
king's  wardship  not  holding  any  lands  in  those  counties  in  chief  in 
his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  holding  the  said  manors  of  the  bishop  of 
London  by  divers  services. 


452 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1368. 


Membrane  4. 


Nov.  8.  To  Philip  de  Lutteleye  escheator  in  Salop.     Order  to  deliver  to  John 

Westminster,  de  Hastynges,  son  of  Lawrence  de  Hastynges  late  earl  of  Pembroke, 
two  mills  wdth  appurtenances  in  Worfeld  which  were  of  John  de 
Bagesore,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since  12  September 
last ;  as  lately  the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the 
cause  wherefore  the  said  mills  were  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand, 
and  he  returned  that  he  so  took  two  M-ater  mills  with  appurtenances 
in  Worfeld,  parcel  of  the  manor  of  Worfeld  held  in  chief,  for  that  it 
was  found  by  inquisition,  before  him  taken  at  Shrewsbury  on  1  May 
in  the  41st  year  of  the  reign,  that  John  de  Badesore  at  his  death  held 
the  same  for  life  of  the  heritage  of  the  said  LawTence  of  the  gift  of 
John  de  Hastynges  father  of  the  said  Lawrence,  by  his  charter  made 
with  the  king's  licence,  and  that  the  said  John  de  Hastynges,  son  of 
the  said  Lawrence,  to  whom  belongs  the  reversion  thereof  after  the  death 
of  the  said  John  de  Baggesore,  was  then  within  age  and  in  the  king's 
wardship,  certifying  that  for  that  reason  and  none  other  he  took  the 
premises  and  they  are  yet  in  the  king's  hand  ;  and  on  the  day  above 
mentioned  the  age  of  the  said  John  son  of  Lawrence  was  proved,  and 
the  king  took  his  homage  and  fealty  and  commanded  livery  to  be 
given  him  of  his  father's  lands. 

Nov.  6.     .     To  Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.     Order  to  deliver  in 

dower  to  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Henry  de  Percy  a  third  part  of  rents  in 

Luddeford  and  Outhenby  {as  above,  p.  439). 

The  like   to  Simon  de  Mordon,  mayor  of   London  and   escheator, 
concerning  a  third  part  of  tenements  in  that  city. 
Vacated  because  above. 


Nov.  8.  To    Roger    de    Wolfreton    escheator    in    Hertfordshire.     Order    to 

Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  wdth  a  moiety  of  the 
manor  of  Peryton  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Elizabeth 
who  was  wife  of  Maurice  son  of  Jolui  fitz  Nichol,  delivering  to  the 
said  Maurice  any  issues  thereoi  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Elizabeth  at  her 
death  held  the  said  moiety  in  fee  tail  of  the  king  as  of  the  honour  of 
Pynkenye  by  fealty  and  by  the  service  of  one  pair  of  gilded  spurs  price 
half  a  mark,  being  daughter  and  heir  of  David  de  Caunton  and 
Joan  his  wdfe,  by  virtue  of  a  gift  and  feoffment  made  by  Alan  de 
Overton  parson  of  Ibestok  and  Henry  de  Sodyngton  parson  of  Esshetes- 
ford  to  the  said  David  and  Joan  and  to  the  heirs  of  then  bodies,  that 
the  said  David  and  Joan  are  dead,  and  had  no  other  issue  but  the 
said  Elizabeth,  who  was  espoused  to  the  said  Maurice  and  had  issue, 
namely  one  Jolm  their  son,  now  dead,  wherefore  the  said  Maurice 
ought  by  reason  of  that  issue  to  hold  the  said  moiety  by  the  courtesy 
of  England. 


Dec.  1. 

Westminster. 


To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  stay 
their  demand  made  by  exchequer  summons  upon  John  de  Hadderes- 
ham  for  any  issues  or  profits  of  the  manor  of  Combeneville  co.  Surrey 
since  Michaelmas  before  27  April  last,  thereof  discharging  him  from 
that  date  until  the  lawful  age  of  John  son  and  heir  of  William  de 
Hadderesham,  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent ;  as  on  27  April 
the  king  granted  to  John  de  Hadderesham  the  ^\'ardship  of  the  said 
manor,  which  \^as  of  William  de  Hadderesham  tenant  in  chief  and 


42    EDVVAUU    HI. 


463 


18()8. 


Membrane  4 — cont. 


among  other  lands  of  the  said  William  is  in  tlic  king's  hand  by  reason 
of  the  nonage  of  the  said  Jolm  his  son,  which  manor  was  by  some  of 
his  servants  accidentally  burnt,  to  hold  until  the  lawful  ago  of  the 
said  heir  without  rendering  aught  to  the  king,  so  that  of  the  issues 
thereof  arising  he  should  cause  the  houses  and  buildings  thereof  to 
be  repaired  or  new  built  if  need  be,  the  parks  and  woods  tliereto  per- 
taining to  be  safe  kept  without  waste,  and  the  piece  of  wood  whereof 
the  trees  are  cut  doA\n  and  sold  to  tlie  king  for  his  works  at  Wyndesore 
so  to  be  enclosed  that  cattle  should  not  enter  nor  depasture  the  same, 
and  tlicreupon  John  de  Hadderesham  found  in  chancery  Richard  de 
Borstowe  and  Nicholas  Heryng  of  Surrey  who  mainperned  for  him 
that  he  should  perform  the  premises  as  in  the  king's  letters  patent  is 
contained  ;  and  because  before  27  April  the  said  John  laid  out  divers 
costs  and  expenses  upon  such  repair  and  building  as  the  king  is  assured, 
the  king's  will  is  that  he  shall  have  all  issues  of  the  said  manor  from 
Michaelmas  aforesaid. 

Nov.  1.  To  the  justiciary,  chancellor  and  treasurer  of  Ireland.     Order,  as 

Westminster,  they  care  for  the  king's  honour  and  the  safety  of  Ireland,  to  cause  all 
ships  of  20  tuns  burden  and  upwards  to  200  tuns  which  they  may 
find  in  the  ports  of  Dublin,  Droghda  and  Waterford  to  be  forthwith 
arrested  and  sent  to  the  port  of  Lyverpoll  co.  Lancastre  in  England,  so 
as  to  be  there  on  the  feast  of  St.  Hilary  at  latest,  ready  for  the  passage 
of  William  de  Wyndesore  and  of  the  men  at  arms,  archers  and  others 
whom  the  long  will  send  to  sail  on  his  service  to  Ireland  at  his  wages 
for  the  salvation  thereof.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Feeder  a.} 

To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Dublin.     Like  order  to 
arrest  all  such  ships  as  they  may  find  in  the  port  of  Dubhn. 
The  hke  to  the  following  : — 

The  mayor  and  baihffs  of  the  city  of  Droghda. 

The  mayor  and  baihffs  of  the  city  of  Waterford. 
[Ibid.] 

To  the  justiciary,  the  chancellor  and  the  treasurer  of  Ireland.  Order 
for  particular  causes,  under  pain  of  forfeiture,  to  cause  all  men,  and 
all  corn,  horses  and  other  victuals  in  Ireland  wholly  to  be  kept 
in  Ireland,  not  suffering  any  men,  corn,  horses  or  victuals  to  be 
drawn  out  of  Ireland  without  the  king's  special  command,  and  to 
cause  proclamation  to  be  made  in  singular  the  counties,  cities, 
boroughs,  market  towns,  seaports  etc.,  on  the  king's  behalf  forbidding 
any  man  of  whatsoever  condition  under  pain  of  forfeiture  so  to  do 
wdthout  his  special  licence  ;  and  if  after  the  proclamation  they  shall 
find  any  one  lading  men,  corn,  horses  or  victuals  in  ships  or  boats  in  any 
place  in  Ireland  to  be  taken  out  thence,  to  arrest  and  keep  them  in  safe 
custody  until  further  order  with  such  men,  corn,  horses  and  victuals, 
and  the  boats  and  ships  wherein  they  were  put.  By  K.  and  C. 


Nov.  10,         To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  suffer 

Westminster.  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  John  earl  of  Kent  tenant  in  chief  to  have 

and   take   the   farms   of   the   manors  of   Andevre   and .  Basjmgstoke 

CO.  Suthampton  with  small  farms  to  the  same  belonging,  4L  I65.  Sd.  a, 


454  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1368.  Membrane  4 — cont. 

year  of  the  farm  of  Iden  co.  Sussex,  the  farm  of  Melburnport 
CO.  Somerset,  the  farms  which  the  bishop  of  Bath,  the  prior  of  Bath,  the 
abbot  of  Clyve  and  the  abbot  of  Cirencestre  are  bound  to  render  yearly 
to  the  said  earl  and  his  heirs,  and  a  farm  of  155.  from  Walter  de  Merton 
of  Bassyngstoke,  making  due  allowance  to  those  who  are  bound  to 
pay  the  same,  and  thereof  discharging  all  and  singular  the  farmers 
during  her  life  ;  as  with  the  assent  of  Thomas  de  Holand  and  Joan  his 
wife,  sister  and  heir  of  the  said  earl,  the  king  has  assigned  the  said 
farms  to  the  said  Elizabeth  in  dower. 

Dec.  1.  To  Nicholas  de  Styuecle  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire.     Order  to 

Westminster,  restore  fully  to  Hugh  la  Zouche  tenant  in  chief  or  to  his  attorney  all 
the  lands  which  John  de  Olneye  now  {sic)  escheator  took  into  the  king's 
hand  by  virtue  of  his  command  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as 
lately  being  informed  that  the  said  Hugh  was  dead  over  seas,  the  king 
ordered  the  said  late  escheator  to  take  into  his  hand  and  safe  keep 
until  further  order  all  lands  whereof  the  said  Hugh  at  his  death  was 
seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  ;  but  he  is  now  informed  of  a  surety 
that  the  said  Hugh  is  alive  and  well. 

The  Hke  to  William  de  Catesby  escheator  in  Leycestershire,  for 
restitution  of  the  lands  of  the  said  Hugh  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  William  atte  More  late  escheator. 

Nov.  18.  To  Roger  de  Meres  and  John  de  Fencotes  justices  of  assize  in 
Westminster.  Bukinghamshire.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  the  abbot  of  Bee 
Herlewyn,  if  proceedings  be  had  before  them  as  hereinafter  rehearsed, 
to  proceed  to  take  an  assize  of  novel  disseisin  by  the  said  abbot 
arraigned  against  Roger  Otery  parson  of  Bledelawe  concerning  tene- 
ments in  Bledelawe,  doing  justice  to  the  parties,  the  allegation  of 
the  defendant  notmthstanding,  so  that  they  proceed  not  to  rendering 
of  judgment  without  advising  the  king  ;  as  on  behalf  of  the  said 
abbot  it  is  shewn  the  king  that  he  arraigned  that  assize  before  the 
said  justices,  that  the  defendant  in  his  pleading  alleged  that  the  premises 
are  parcel  of  the  dower  of  his  church,  the  advowson  whereof  the  king 
has  acquired  to  him  and  his  heirs,  that  he  was  admitted  and  instituted 
at  the  king's  presentation  and  so  is  parson  of  the  said  church  and 
at  the  king's  presentation  is  seised  of  the  dower  thereof,  and  without 
the  king  ought  not  to  answer  for  the  same,  and  that  by  colour  of  this 
allegation  the  said  justices  have  hitherto  deferred  to  proceed  to  the 
takmg  of  the  assize,  wherefore  he  has  prayed  the  king  for  remedy. 

Membrane  3. 

Oct.  24.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  and  to  the  chamber- 
Westminster,  lains.  Order  to  view  the  indentures  made  between  the  king  and  the 
farmers  of  the  king's  manors  in  Kent  concerning  the  corn  and  stock 
hereinafter  mentioned,  which  indentures  are  in  the  treasury  with  the 
said  chamberlains,  and  if  assured  that  the  executors  of  Juliana  de 
Leybourne  countess  of  Huntyngdon  delivered  to  the  said  farmers  to 
the  king's  use  the  corn  and  cattle  there  mentioned  to  the  value  of 
643Z.  2s.  2d.  or  for  a  less  value,  to  cause  that  sum  or  so  much  as  is 
due  to  be  paid  to  the  said  executors  of  the  farms  or  issues  of  his  said 
manors,  or  assignment  to  be  made  to  them  as  speedily  as  may  be  ; 
as  the  king  is  bound  to  Alexander  Wayte  clerk  and  John  Aumberle 
clerk  executors  of  the  said  JuUana  in  821.  6s.  Hd.  for  256  (sic)  quarters 


42  KinVARI)  III. 


455 


18()8. 


Nov.  10. 
Westminstei'. 


Nov.  26. 
Westminster. 


Dec.  12. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  3 — cont. 

of  \\heat  price  6.s.  8rf.  a  quarter,  in  45s.  for  10  quarters  of  rye  price 
4s.  6(/.  a  quarter,  in  156^.  for  7H0  quarters  of  barley  price  4s.  a  quarter, 
in  30/.  for  180  quarters  of  peas  and  vetch  price  3s.  4(/.  a  quarter,  and 
in  25/.  17s.  Grf.  for  207  quarters  of  oats  price  2s.  (id.  a  quarter  for  sowing 
tlie  lands  in  his  said  manors  and  hveries  of  the  servants  there  ;  also 
in  8/.  10s.  for  17  cart  horses  for  draught  price  10s.  a  head,  in  23/.  13s.  4(1. 
for  71  stots  price  6s.  8d.  a  head,  in  40s.  for  5  plough  mares  price  8s. 
a  head,  in  23/.  6s.  8d.  for  35  oxen  price  13s.  4i.  a  head,  in  70s.  for 
7  bulls  price  10s.  a  head,  in  70/.  10s.  for  141  kine  price  10s.  a  head,  in 
104/.  18s.  6d.  for  one  thousand  three  hundred  fourscore  and  thirty  (sic) 
muttons  price  18c/.  a  head,  in  73/.  17s.  Qd.  for  1,182  ewes  price  15c/.  a 
head,  in  22/.  12s.  for  352  {sic)  hogs  and  tegs  price  12d.  a  head,  in  30s. 
for  10  boars  price  3s.  a  head,  in  60s.  for  20  swine  price  35.  a  head,  and 
in  10/.  5s.  for  164  pigs  price  15c/.  a  head  for  the  stock  of  the  said  manors 
bought  of  the  said  executors  to  the  king's  use,  amounting  in  all  to 
643/.  2s.  2c;.  {sic).  By  K. 

To  John  de  Scotherskelf  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  to  remove 
the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  lands  which 
EhzabetJi  de  Menyll  at  her  death  held  by  knight  service  of  the  arch- 
bishop of  Canterbury,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  her  death  and 
by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  her  heir,  delivering  to  the  archbishop  or 
to  his  attorney  any  issues  thereof  taken,  and  if  the  same  are  for  any 
other  cause  taken  into  his  hand  to  inform  the  king  thereof  in  chancery 
^\ithout  delay,  sending  again  this  writ ;  as  according  to  the  law  and 
custom  of  the  realm  the  archbishop  of  Canterbury  for  the  time  being 
ought  to  have  the  wardship  of  all  lands  in  the  realm  held  of  him  by 
knight  service  after  the  death  of  the  tenants  thereof  until  the  lawful 
age  of  their  heirs  being  within  age,  though  such  tenants  be  elsewhere 
tenants  in  chief  ;  and  now  the  king  has  learned  that  the  lands  which 
the  said  Elizabeth  so  held  are  by  the  escheator  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  among  other  lands  whereof  she  was  seised  and  are  in  his  hand, 
and  the  king  would  not  in  anywise  prejudice  the  archbishop's  right. 

To  the  collectors  of  customs  and  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port 
of  Suthampton.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Bernard  Anton  of  Florence 
merchant,  to  suffer  the  said  Bernard  without  payment  of  customs  or  let 
whatsoever,  by  the  mainprise  of  Silvester  Nicholas,  Walter  Bardes  and 
Simon  Bardes  merchants  of  Lumbardy  dwelling  in  London,  to  take 
to  Lumbardy  8  sacks  of  wool  packed  in  16  pockets  in  a  ship  of  Jacomyn 
de  Fenwe  of  Janua ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  he  put  the  said  wool 
in  that  ship  at  Lescluse  in  Flanders  to  take  to  Lumbardy,  that  the 
ship  has  now  come  to  the  port  of  Suthampton  there  to  lade  wool  and 
other  merchandise  to  take  thither  by  hcence  of  the  king,  and  that  the 
said  collectors  and  keepers  have  arrested  the  said  wool  for  that  the  said 
Bernard  has  not  letters  of  cocket  shewing  payment  of  the  custom  and 
subsidy  thereupon,  wherefore  he  has  prayed  for  remedy  ;  and  it  is  not 
lawful  that  custom  be  paid  in  this  realm  upon  wool  laded  in  Flanders 
to  be  taken  to  foreign  parts,  and  the  said  mainpernors  have  borne 
witness  that  the  said  16  pockets  were  so  laded,  and  have  taken  upon 
them  that  the  same  shall  be  taken  to  Lumbardy  and  to  no  other 
place  this  side  of  the  mountains.  By  C. 

To  Richard  parson  of  Tangemere,  bailiff  of  the  bailiwicks  of 
Terrynge  and  Tangemere  of  the  archbishopric  of  Canterbury.  \Vrit 
of  aid,  straitly  commanding  him,  as  he  would  save  harmless  him  and 


456 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1369. 
Jan.  4. 

Windsor. 


1368.  Membrane  3 — cont. 

his,  to  hold  the  courts  pertaining  to  his  baihwick  according  to  order 
of  the  guardians  of  the  temporaUties  of  the  archbishopric  now  void  and 
in  the  king's  hand,  collecting,  levying  and  taking  to  the  king's  use 
farms,  rents  and  profits  therein  to  the  archbishopric  pertaining  as  used 
heretofore  to  be  done,  executing  all  other  things  that  pertain  to  his 
office,  and  answering  to  the  said  guardians  in  the  king's  name  as  well 
for  the  said  issues,  rents  and  profits  as  for  all  other  things  there  that 
pertain  to  their  guardianship  so  often  as  warned  on  the  king's  behalf 
by  them  or  one  of  them,  so  that  answer  be  made  to  the  king  for 
the  same  by  the  said  guardians,  kno^ving  assuredly  that  the  king  will 
not  hold  him  discharged  or  excused  of  aught  pertaining  to  his  said 
office ;  as  on  14  November  last  the  king  by  letters  patent  committed 
the  guardianship  of  the  said  temporalities  to  the  prior  of  Christ  Church 
Canterbury,  John  Waleys  Thomas  de  Wolton,  Walter  Dautre  parson 
of  Retherfeld,  Simon  de  Burgh  and  William  de  Topclyf  to  hold  during 
pleasure,  so  that  they  shall  answer  at  the  exchequer  for  the  issues 
thereof  arising.  By  K.  and  C. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

Thomas  de  Preston  baihff  of  Otteford  and  Stonham. 

William  de  Tidecombe  bailiff  of  Wyngham. 

John  Praunceys  bailiff  of  Aldyngton. 

William  de  Multon  bailiff  of  Croydon. 

To  the  abbot  of  Chester.  Order  if,  as  the  king  as  learned,  certaLo 
armour,  harness  and  other  goods  of  the  king's  son  Lionel  duke  of 
Clarence  deceased  are  brought  from  Ireland  by  certain  his  ministers 
for  safe  custody  within  the  abbey,  in  presence  of  the  mayor  and 
bailiffs  of  the  said  town  and  of  Thomas  de  Stafford  the  king's  yeoman 
and  Serjeant  at  arms  to  receive  the  same  of  those  who  brought  them, 
and  cause  them  to  be  put  in  a  strong  and  secure  house,  as  he  will 
answer  before  the  king,  shutting  the  house  with  strong  locks,  setting 
thereon  his  seal,  the  seals  of  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  and  of  the  said 
Serjeant,  and  causing  the  same  to  be  there  kept  at  his  peril,  so  that 
none  of  them  be  taTien  away  or  removed  thence  until  fiu-ther  order. 
The  king  has  commanded  the  said  mayor  and  baihffs  by  writ,  and  the 
said  Serjeant  by  word  of  mouth,  to  be  present  at  the  livery  thereof 
to  the  said  abbot,  and  to  see  that  they  be  put  away  and  kept  as 
aforesaid.  By  K. 

'13gg.  Membrane  2. 

Nov.  20.  To  John  Evesham  escheator  in  Wylts.  Order  of  the  heritage  of 
Westminster.  Jolm  Paveleye  tenant  in  chief  [to  deliver]  to  Jolm  de  Seintlou  to 
hold  by  the  courtesy  of  England  the  manor  of  Westbury,  the  hamlets 
of  Hevedynghull,  Stoke  Milbourn  and  Lygh,  a  moiety  of  the  profits 
and  perquisites  of  the  view  of  frankpledge,  of  the  hundred,  fair, 
market  and  '  portmote '  of  Westbury,  and  all  the  rent  arising  of  the 
'  shamelhous  '  in  the  town  of  Westbury,  assigned  by  the  king  for 
the  purparty  of  Joan,  Elizabeth  and  Ela  his  daughters,  rendering  to 
Ralph  Cheyne  and  Joan  his  wife  daughter  of  the  said  John  Pavely 
and  to  the  heks  of  the  said  Joan  6Z.  a  year  at  Christmas,  Easter, 
Midsummer  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  [and  to  deUver] 
to  the  said  Ralph  and  Joan  the_  manors  (sic)  of  la  Broke,  the  hamlets 
or  [  ]*  and  Hauekerygge,  the  other  moiety  of   the 

*  A  blank  space  upon  the  roll  here. 


42    EDWARD    111.  467 


1308.  Membrane  2 — cont. 

said  profits  and  perquisites,  2  marks  of  rent  to  be  taken  by  the  hands 
of  the  prior  of  CJharleton  by  U])haven  and  of  liis  successors,  the  said 
6/.  of  rent  of  the  manor  of  Westbury  and  the  liamlets  aforesaid,  mast 
or  pasture  for  their  pigs  and  the  pigs  of  the  said  Joan's  heirs  in  the 
wood  of  Westbury  called  '  le  Holt,'  and  a  piece  of  ground  to  build 
their  piggery  there  by  the  king  assigned  for  the  said  Joan's  purparty  ; 
as  on  20  November  in  the  35th  year  of  his  reign,  with  the  assent  of 
William  late  bishop  of  Winchester  to  whom  [the  king  committed] 
the  wardship  of  the  purparty  of  Joan  daughter  and  one  of  the  heirs 
of  John  Paveleye  tenant  in  chief,  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship, 
and  of  the  said  Jolm  de  Seintlou  who  took  to  wife  Alice  his  other 
daughter  and  heir  (now  deceased)  and  by  her  begot  the  said  Joan, 
Elizabeth  and  Ela  her  daughters  and  coheirs  and  parceners  of  the 
said  Joan,  the  king  assigned  to  John  de  Seintlou  the  manor  of  Broke 
and  the  hamlet  of  Dycherigge  with  a  moiety  of  the  said  profits  and 
perquisites,  III.  9s.  lid.  of  rent  of  the  said  Joan's  moiety  which  by 
so  much  exceeded  the  yearly  value  of  that  purparty,  and  to  Joan 
daughter  of  John  Paveley  the  manor  of  Westbury,  the  hamlet  of 
Hefdynghull,  and  the  other  moiety  of  the  said  profits  and  perquisites, 
so  that  her  purparty  should  be  bound  to  John  de  Seintlou  for  his 
life  and  after  his  death  to  his  said  three  daughters  in  the  rent  aforesaid 
for  excess  of  the  yearly  value  thereof,  and  the  king  ordered  John  de 
Estbury  then  escheator  to  deliver  those  purparties  to  John  de  Seintlou 
and  to  the  said  bishop  respectively,  saving  the  right  of  either  party  to 
other  lands  of  that  heritage  if  it  should  be  found  that  John  Paveley 
at  his  death  had  any  to  be  parted  betAveen  the  said  heirs  ;  and  lately 
at  the  suit  of  the  said  Ralph,  who  has  now  taken  to  wife  the  said 
Joan  daughter  of  John  Paveley,  alleging  manifest  errors  in  the  record 
and  process  of  the  said  partition  and  in  the  livery  made  to  John  de 
Seintlou,  willing  to  correct  such  errors  if  any  there  were  and  to  do 
justice  to  the  parties,  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  of  Wiltes  to  give 
notice  to  John  de  Seintlou  to  be  before  him  in  chancery  in  the  octaves 
of  Martinmas  last  to  hear  the  same,  and  to  shew  cause  wherefore  the 
said  lands  ought  not  to  be  taken  agam  into  the  king's  hand  and  a 
new  partition  made  by  reason  thereof,  and  to  do  and  receive  further 
what  should  be  lawful  in  the  premises  ;  at  which  day  appeared  in 
chancery  as  well  John  Seintlou  by  Hugh  de  Gouteby  clerk  his  attorney 
according  to  the  warning  given  him  by  the  sheriff  as  the  said  Ralph 
in  person  and  Joan  daughter  of  John  Paveley  by  Jolin  Auncel  her 
attorney,  and  the  said  Ralph  and  Joan  alleged  that  the  value  of  the 
lands  assigned  to  the  purparty  of  his  said  three  daughters  and  delivered 
to  Jolin  de  Seintlou  is  in  excess  of  tlie  value  of  those  kept  in  the  king's 
hand  and  committed  to  the  said  bishop  for  the  purparty  of  the  said 
Joan  by  13-s.  4rf.  yearly,  and  that  so  there  was  error  in  the  partition 
and  in  the  livery  thereof,  praying  that  the  same  should  be  taken  again 
into  the  king's  hand  and  parted  anew,  and  this  excess  John  de  Seintlou 
by  his  attorney  did  not  gainsay,  wherefore  the  king  took  the  lands 
of  the  said  heritage  again  into  his  hand,  and  by  assent  of  the  said 
heirs  and  parceners  assigned  to  the  said  daughters  of  John  de  Seintlou 
the  manor  of  Westbury  with  the  hamlets  first  mentioned,  a  moiety 
of  the  said  profits  and  perquisites  and  the  whole  of  the  said  rent  of 
the  '  shamelhous  '  to  their  purparty,  rendering  to  Joan  daughter 
of  John  Pavele  and  to  her  heirs  61.  a  year  as  aforesaid  A^ith  power  to 
her  and  her  heirs  to  distrain  for  arrears  in  the  said  manor  and  purparty, 
so  that  the  steward  and  bailiff  for  holding  hundreds  and  '  portemotes ' 


458 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1368.  Membrane  2 — cont. 

should  be  at  the  choice  of  John  de  Seintlou  to  whom  that  pur- 
party  pertains  for  his  Hfe,  and  after  his  death  at  the  choice  of  his  said 
three  daughters  and  their  heirs  for  ever,  and  assigned  to  Joan  daughter 
of  John  Paveley  now  wife  of  the  said  Ralph,  who  has  now  proved  her 
age  before  the  escheator,  the  manor  of  Broke  with  the  hamlets  of 
Bicherigge  {sic)  and  Hauekerigge  etc.,  a  moiety  of  the  said  profits 
and  perquisites,  2  marks  of  rent  of  the  said  prior,  6^.  of  yearly  rent 
of  the  purparty  of  the  said  three  daughters  of  Jolm  de  Seintlou,  mast 
and  ground  for  their  piggery  as  aforesaid,  with  power  to  distrain  as 
aforesaid  for  arrears  of  the  said  rent  of  61. 

Dec.  30.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Robert 
Westminstor.  Stotter  of  Hoke  and  WiUiam  Gyse  owners  of  a  ship  called  '  la  cog 
Thomas  '  of  Hoke,  [if]  assured  by  witness  or  certificate  of  the  king's 
admiral  or  of  his  lieutenant  in  the  port  of  London  that  the  said  ship 
was  by  one  of  them  arrested  at  the  suit  of  Henry  Herbury  and  after 
dearrested  for  the  causes  hereinafter  mentioned,  to  cause  the  same 
to  be  dearrested  and  delivered  to  the  said  owners  to  make  their 
advantage  thereof ;  as  the  said  owners  have  shewn  the  king  that  the 
said  ship  was  lately  freighted  in  the  port  of  London,  for  the  third 
part  thereof  by  the  said  Henry  and  for  all  the  residue  by  others,  to  sail 
to  Spain  and  there  get  Avines  to  be  brought  to  London,  that  the  master, 
seamen  and  merchants  therein  at  sea  on  the  voyage  towards  Spain, 
fearing  to  repair  thither  because  of  the  war  of  the  king's  enemies  there, 
by  common  consent  touched  at  the  port  of  the  city  of  Bourdeaux 
in  the  king's  lordship  of  Aquitaine,  that  the  merchants  therein  as 
well  for  the  said  Henry  as  for  the  others  so  discharged  the  said  ship, 
the  owners,  master  and  seamen  thereof,  of  voyaging  to  Spain  accord- 
ing to  their  covenant,  as  may  appear  by  divers  letters  and  public  instru- 
ments which  they  have  with  them,  that  after  at  the  plaint  of  the 
said  Henry,  alleging  to  the  said  admiral  that  the  said  ship  did  not 
go  to  Spain  to  the  said  merchants'  advantage  according  to  their  said 
covenant,  [the  admiral]  caused  the  said  ship  to  be  arrested  in  the 
port  of  London,  and  that  though  being  so  arrested  the  same  was 
by  due  process  before  him  made  dearrested  for  the  causes  aforesaid, 
as  the  said  owners  may  in  due  manner  aver,  the  said  Henry  has  caused 
the  same  being  now  found  in  the  said  port  to  be  a  second  time  arrested 
by  the  sheriffs  by  colour  of  the  said  covenant  concerning  the  freight 
thereof  toward  Spain,  wlierefore  they  have  prayed  the  king  for 
remedy.  By  C. 

To  Nicholas  de  Styuecle  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.  Order  to 
take  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Walter  atte  Grove  tenant  in  chief  an 
oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign 
her  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
his  death,  sending  the  assignment  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

Membrane  1  belongs  to  the  roll  of  the  4cith  year,  and  has  now  been 
transferred  thereto. 

1368.  Membrane  21d. 

Writing  of  John  Fromond  of  Hadlowe  co.  Kent,  being  a  grant  and 
quitclaim  to  Simon  de  Burgh,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of 
Vieleston  and  all  lands  sometime  of  John  de  Vieleston  grandfather  of 


1369. 
Jan.  23. 

Westminster. 


4^    EDWARD    III.  459 


18G8.  Membrane  21d — cont. 

the  said  John  Froinond  m  the  tow  n  of  Shorham  co.  Kent ;  and  warranty 
of  a  third  part  of  the  lands  of  the  said  manor  and  of  other  lands  held 
by  knight  service,  and  of  a  sixth  part  of  the  lands  of  the  said  manor 
and  of  other  lands  which  are  of  the  tenure  of  '  gavelkende.'  Dated 
Shorham,  Tuesday  the  feast  of  the  Conversion  of  St.  Paul  42  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
26  January. 

Charter  of  Wilham  de  Langeleye  of  Rykemeresworth  co.  Hertford, 
giving  with  warranty  to  Wilham  de  Brydport  and  Sibyl  liis  wife  for 
their  lives  all  his  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  to^\^n  of  Langeleye 
Marreys  co.  Bukingham,  with  remainder  to  John  son  of  John  son  of 
the  grantor  who  was  sometime  husband  of  the  said  Sibyl  and  to  the 
heirs  of  his  body,  and  reversion  for  lack  of  said  heirs  to  the  grantor  and 
his  heirs.  Witnesses  :  Richard  Gregory  the  elder,  Richard  Gregory  the 
younger,  John  de  Wexham,  Walter  de  Salle,  Richard  Pope,  William 
Squyer,  Robert  Knyf .  Dated  Langeleye  Marreys,  Thursday  before  the 
Conversion  of  St.  Paul  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27  January  this  year. 

Memorandum  that  on  28  January,  in  the  presence  of  the  chancellor, 
John  de  Branketre  delivered  to  Helmyngus  Leget  bonds  of  the  duke 
of  Borboun  made  to  the  king  for  forty  [thousand]  crowns,  whereof 
he  has  paid  ten  thousand,  and  shall  pay  the  residue  at  Easter  next, 
Michaelmas  and  Christmas  following  by  even  portions. 

\Foedera.'\ 

Jan.  29.         John  de  Kyngesfold  to  W^illiam  bishop  of  Winchester.     Recognizance 
Westminster,  for  100  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Surrey. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  William  de  Balton  citizen  and  pepperer  of  London, 
granting  \\dth  warranty  to  John  Aubrey  and  William  Brickies  citizens 
and  pepperers  of  London,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  for  a  sum  of  money 
in  hand  by  them  paid,  the  reversion  of  a  shop  with  cellar  and  solar 
thereupon  built  in  the  parish  of  St.  Anthony  in  the  city  of  London, 
which  Roger  de  Balton  sometime  citizen  and  pepperer  of  London, 
brother  of  the  said  Wilham,  in  Ms  will  bequeathed  to  Joan  his  wife 
for  hfe  with  reversion  to  the  said  Wilham  de  Balton,  and  Ralph 
Knyghton  citizen  and  pepperer  holds  during  the  life  of  the  said  Joan 
by  her  demise.  Witnesses  :  Robert  Hatfeld,  Nicholas  Chaucer,  Wilham 
Venour,  the  said  Ralph  Knyghton,  Thomas  de  Thorneye.  Dated 
London,  Tuesday  the  feast  of  St.  Margaret  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  29  January  this  year. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  above  grant  of  the  reversion  of 
a  shop  in  the  parish  of  St.  Anthony  London  with  cellar  and  solar, 
held  by  Ralph  Knyghton  citizen  and  pepperer  of  London  during  the 
Ufe  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Roger  de  Balton,  upon  condition  that 
Wilham  de  Balton  citizen  and  pepperer  of  London,  brother  of  the  said 
Roger,  or  some  other  in  his  name  shall  pay  to  John  Aubreye  and 
W^illiam  Brickies  citizens  and  pepperers  of  London  or  one  of  them, 
their  heirs,  executors  or  attorney  in  the  dwelling  house  of  the  said 


460  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1368.  Membrane  21d — cont. 

John  Aubrey  in  the  city  of  London  56  marks  between  this  time  and 
Michaelmas  1368.  Witnesses  (as  the  last).  Dated  London,  Wednesday 
the  morrow  of  St.  Margaret  1367,  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  29  January  this 
year. 

Feb.  1.  Geoffrey  atte  Welle  of  Wengham  to  Henry  Perot  and  Edmund  de 

Westminster.  Gysburn.     Recognisance  for  20Z.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Kent. 

Feb.  5.  William  Fyfhyde  to  Jolm  de  Cavendyssh.     Recognisance  for  40 

Westminster,  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 

Letters  patent  of  Sir  John  de  Benteley  rector  of  Chellesfeld,  Sir  John 
Walden  rector  of  Lakadok  and  Geoffrey  Walden,  being  a  quitclaim 
to  Su'  AVilliam  de  Monte  Acuto  earl  of  New  Salisbury,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  the  manors  of  Burnham  and  Breen  co.  Somersete  with 
the  rights  and  hberties  thereto  belonging.  Dated  London,  Friday 
after  the  Purification  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  February. 

Letters  patent  of  Sir  John  de  Benteley  rector  of  Chellesfeld, 
Sir  John  Walden  rector  of  Lakadok  and  Geoffrey  Walden,  being  a 
quitclaim  to  Sir  Thomas  de  Graunson  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of 
the  manors  of  Burnham  and  Breen  co.  Somersete  with  the  rights  and 
liberties  thereto  belonging.     Dated  {as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  February. 

Feb.  10.         To  the  sheriff  of  Hertford.     Order  to  cause  a  market  at  the  king's 

Westminster,  town  of  Hertford  to  be  proclaimed  and  held  during  Thursday  in  every 

A\'eek,  instead  of  the  market  on  Wednesday  which  heretofore  used 

to  be  held  there  by  the  king's  son  John  duke  of   Lancastre  of  the 

king's  grant.  By  K. 

Membrane  2M. 

Writing  of  Nicholas  eldest  son  of  Sir  James  Daudeleye  lord  of 
Heleye  and  Elizabeth  his  vaie,  being  a  receipt  to  the  said  Sir  James 
for  1,300  marks  paid  in  the  church  of  St.  Botulf  near  Aldrychgate, 
in  full  of  3,600  marks  which  he  was  before  the  council  adjudged  to 
pay  them,  whereof  2,300  marks  was  already  paid.  Dated  London, 
the  church  aforesaid,  27  January  42  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Nicholas,  7  February. 

Writing  of  John  de  Foxcote,  giving  to  John  Payn  citizen  and 
armourer  of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  10/.  to  be 
taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  all  the  grantor's 
lands  in  the  towns  of  Dontebourne,  Turkedene  and  elsewhere  in 
Gloucestershire  and  in  the  city  of  London,  mth  power  to  distrain 
for  arrears  ;  and  he  has  given  the  said  John  Payn  \d.  in  name  of 
seisin.    Dated  London,  Friday  the  eve  of  Christmas  42  {sic)  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  February  this  year. 

Feb.  7.  Edmund  de  Frytheby  of  Yorkshire  to  Queen  PhiHppa.     Recognis- 

Westminster.  ance  for  120Z.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Yorkshire. 


42    EDWARD    III. 


401 


1308. 
Feb.  7. 


Membrane  26d — cont. 


Tliomas  prior  of  Dunstaplo  to  Willi.ain  la  Zouclie  of  Haryngworth 
Westminster,  knight.     Roc^ognisanco  for  200/.,  to  bo  levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Rcdfoidsliiro. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  Jolm  de  Dytton  rector  of  Abbots  Rippeton,  being  a 
quitclaim  to  Sir  John  de  Hylton  rector  of  Haverhill  in  the  diocese  of 
Norwich  of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  which  they  lately  had 
jointly  by  gift  and  feoffment '  of  William  de  Eynesham  citizen  and 
pepperer  of  London  in  the  town  and  territory  of  Chesthunte,  with  all 
services  of  tenants  free  and  neif,  their  suits  and  all  that  goes  with  them, 
and  other  advantages  etc.  Witnesses  :  William  de  Eynesham, 
John  Wyltcsshire,  Robert  de  Burle,  John  de  Hoo,  John  de  Haddele, 
A^'^illiam  Venour,  William  de  Grendon  clerk.  Dated  London, 
1  December  41  Edward  IIL 

Memorandum  of  acloiowledgment,  7  February  this  year. 

Feb.  8.  Robert  Vynter  of  Maydenstan  to  David  de  Wollore  clerk.    Recog- 

Westminster.  nisance  for  20Z.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Kent. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

Feb.  8.  Edward  Stradlyng  and  Oliver  Seint  Johan  knights  to  Guy  de  Briene 

Westminster,  knight.     Recognisance  for  40Z.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Somerset. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Feb.  8.  William  Bourcher,  John  Gernoun,  John  Sutton  the  son,  Richard 

Westminster,  de  Sutton,   William  de  Tendrynge,  John  de  Hevenyngham  knights 

and    John  de  Pej^ton    to  Jolm  de  la  Lee,  Wliliam  Baude  knights, 

Robert  de  Teye  and  Simon  Longe.     Joint  and  several  recognisance 

for  350L,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Essex. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  Simon  Longe. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  John  de  la  Lee,  Sir  William  Baude, 
Robert  de  Teye  and  Simon  Longe  of  the  one  part  and  Sir  William 
Bourcher,  Sir  John  Gernoun,  Sir  John  de  Sutton  the  son.  Sir  Richard 
his  brother,  Sh  Wilham  de  Tendryngge,  Sh  John  de  Hevinyngliam 
and  Jolm  de  Peyton  of  the  other  part,  being  a  defeasance  of  the  fore- 
going recognisance,  upon  condition  of  payment  of  35/.  on  Friday  in 
W^hitsun  week  next  or  within  fifteen  days  after  in  the  church  of  the 
friars  preachers  at  Chelmesford  co.  Essex,  and  35/.  yearly  at  the  same 
term  and  place  until  175/.  be  paid,  acquittance  being  given  for  every 
payment,  or  that  175/.  be  fully  paid  within  the  term  aforesaid.  Dated 
London,  10  February  42  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  as  well  by  the  said  William 
Baud,  Robert  de  Teye  and  Simon  Longe  as  by  the  said  William 
Bourcher  etc.,  11  February. 

Membrane  25d. 

Charter  of  Edmund  de  Chelreye,  desiring  to  make  provision  for  his 
soul  and  the  souls  hereinafter  mentioned  and  to  increase  divine  worship 
for  ever  in  the  parish  church  of  Chelreye  in  the  diocese  of  Sahsbury, 
by  hcence  of  the  king,  the  chief  lords,  and  other  interested  persons, 
giving  in  almoin  towards  the  maintenance  of  a  chantry  by  him  founded 


462  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1368.  Membrane  25d — cont. 

on  the  north  side  of  the  said  church  in  honour  of  God  and  the  Virgin 
Mary,  according  to  the  ordinance  thereof,  with  warranty  to  Sir  Roger 
atte  Peunde  chaplain  and  to  his  successors  chaplains  of  the  said 
chantry  bearing  the  charges  thereof  in  the  said  ordinance  contained 
for  ever,  and  celebrating  divine  service  in  the  said  church  for  the 
health  of  the  king,  the  queen,  their  children,  the  said  Edmund,  his 
friends  and  benefactors  during  their  lives,  for  their  souls  after  death, 
and  the  souls  of  Henry  father  of  the  said  Edmund,  Alice  his  mother, 
Lucy  his  wife,  his  children,  brethren,  sisters,  friends  and  benefactors, 
a  messuage  sometime  of  Martin  de  Hertham  with  curtilage  and  garden 
adjoining  by  the  churchyard,  according  to  metes  and  bounds  new  made, 
with  24  acres  of  arable  land  lying  in  the  fields  of  Chelreye,  4  acres  of 
meadow  in  the  Hemmede  as  shall  be  allotted,  61.  of  rent  issuing  and 
arising  from  all  the  lands  of  the  said  Edmund  in  the  town  of  Chelreye 
to  be  taken  yearly  at  the  four  usual  terms,  namely  Midsummer, 
Michaelmas,  St.  Thomas  the  Apostle  and  the  Annunciation  by  even 
portions,  and  pasture  for  four  oxen  or  kine,  two  horses  and  for 
100  sheep,  with  free  ingress  and  egress  upon  all  the  common  pasture 
of  Chelreye  ;  of  which  land  one  acre  lies  in  the  Estcroft  upon  Claverdon 
between  land  of  Edmund  Dauvers  and  of  John  Cokerel,  one  rood  in  the 
same  field  between  land  of  Thomas  Cokerel  called  Pynnokes  and  of 
Edmund  Dauvers,  one  rood  in  the  same  field  between  the  road  and 
land  of  John  Whethull,  one  half  acre  in  Sevenacres,  between  land  of 
John  Mautravers  and  of  John  Cokerel,  one  acre  in  the  Mersli  in  the 
Middelfurlong  between  land  of  John  Wolvele  and  land  late  of  Richard 
Prince,  one  half  acre  in  the  same  furlong  by  land  of  Nicholas  Colewell, 
half  an  acre  in  the  Westcroft  upon  Idekenhull  between  land  of  Stephen 
Child  and  of  the  rector,  half  an  acre  in  the  same  field  by  Lambroke 
between  land  of  Richard  Iremongere  and  of  Robert  Horl,  half  an 
acre  in  the  same  field  below  the  '  clayputt '  between  land  of  Robert 
Chapman  and  of  the  rector,  one  rood  upon  Lytekoghborgh  between 
land  of  Edmund  de  Berewell  and  of  Edmund  Dauvers,  one  rood  in 
the  Blakelond  between  land  of  Stephen  Child  and  land  of  Robert 
Horl,  one  rood  in  the  same  furlong  between  land  of  Henry  atte  Dene 
and  of  Nicholas  Colewell,  half  an  acre  in  the  same  furlong  between  land 
of  Thomas  Depham  and  of  John  Whethull,  half  an  acre  by  Alryches- 
weye  in  the  same  field  between  land  of  John  Cokerel  and  of  Nicholas 
Colewell,  one  rood  below  Ikeneldeweye  between  land  of  Thomas 
Depham  and  of  William  Chyld,  one  acre  upon  Ikeneldeweye  between 
land  of  Thomas  Erankeleyn  and  of  John  Wylkyns,  one  acre  upon 
Hull  between  land  of  Edmund  Dauvers  and  of  Stephen  Child,  half 
an  acre  in  the  Standelf  between  land  of  Richard  Iremongere  and 
of  John  Cokerel,  half  an  acre  in  the  same  furlong  between  land  of 
Walter  Bolle  and  of  John  Malyn,  one  acre  in  Garbrodeland  between 
land  late  of  John  Mautravers  and  of  Robert  Osemound,  one  acre 
upon  the  WesthuU  between  land  of  Edmund  Dauvers  and  of  John 
de  Whethull,  half  an  acre  in  the  Rowelond  between  land  of  Nicholas 
Gentilcors  and  of  John  Wylkyns,  one  rood  in  the  same  furlong  between 
land  of  Edmund  de  Berewell  and  of  Thomas  Frankelyn,  one  rood  in 
the  Gill3mg  between  land  of  Edmund  Dauvers  and  of  Thomas 
Frankelyn,  one  rood  '  Westout '  in  the  Estfeld  between  land  of  John 
Fauconer  and  of  John  ^'VTiethull,  one  rood  in  the  same  furlong  between 
land  of  John  Fauconer  and  of  Henry  atte  Dene,  one  acre  in  the  Ripene 
between  land  of  the  rector  and  of  Edmund  Dauvers,  one  rood  in  the 


42    EDWARD    III.  403 


180R.  Membrane  25d — cont. 

same  furlong  by  land  of  P^dnuind  Dauvcrs,  half  an  acre  in  the  Buchine 
between  land  of  John  Cokcrel  and  of  Edmund  de  Berewell,  one  acre 
in  the  i^ame  furlong  between  land  of  Robert  CJhaulowe  and  of  Thomas 
Frankeleyn,  half  an  acre  in  the  '  Middelforlong '  between  land  of 
Nicholas  CoIcwcU  and  of  John  Wylkyns,  one  acre  in  the  same  furlong 
between  land  of  John  Cokerol  and  of  William  le  Taillour,  lialf  an  acre 
in  the  same  furlong  betw  een  land  of  Thomas  Cokcrel  and  of  Robert 
Maydelot,  one  acre  in  the  same  furlong  by  land  of  John  Cokcrel,  half 
an  acre  in  the  Inliechyng  between  land  of  Hemy  atte  Dene  and  Robert 
Horl,  half  an  acre  in  the  same  furlong  between  land  of  Thomas 
Frankeleyn  and  of  Edmund  de  Berewell,  one  acre  stretching  to  the 
Wodeweye  between  land  of  John  Malyn  and  of  Edmund  Dauvers, 
half  an  acre  in  the  Wodeweye  between  land  of  Thomas  Depham  and  of 
John  Wylkyns,  one  acre  in  the  same  furlong  between  land  of  John 
de  Henle  and  of  John  Cokcrel,  one  acre  by  the  windmill  between 
land  of  Edmund  Dauvers  and  of  Nicholas  Gentilcors,  and  one  rood 
upon  the  Heye  between  land  of  Thomas  Depham  and  of  John  Cokerel ; 
and  the  said  Edmund  and  his  heirs  shall  bear  all  charges,  rents  and 
services  affecting  the  premises  as  well  to  the  king  as  to  other  persons 
whatsoever,  thereof  acquitting  the  said  Roger  and  his  successors, 
granting  them  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  of  the  said  rent  and  10s. 
more  in  all  the  lands  of  the  said  Edmund  in  the  said  town  to  whose 
hands  soever  they  shall  come  ;  and  because  the  seal  of  the  said  Edmund 
is  to  many  unknown  he  has  procured  that  the  seal  of  R.  bishop  of 
SaHsbury  shall  also  be  affixed  to  these  presents.  Witnesses  :  Warin 
de  Insula,  Thomas  de  Besyles  knights,  John  Cleet,  John  Fynke,  John 
Cokerell,  Robert  de  Louthe.  Dated  Chelreye,  12  April  41  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  8  February  this  year. 

Charter  indented  of  Lionel  de  Bradenham,  giving  with  warranty 
to  WilHam  Borughchier,  John  Gernoun,  John  de  Sutton  the  son, 
Richard  his  brother,  William  de  Tendryngge,  John  de  Hevenyngham 
knights  and  John  de  Peyton,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  his  whole  manor 
of  Langenho  and  the  advowson  of  the  church,  with  the  rents  and 
services  of  all  tenants  and  all  else  to  the  same  belonging,  under  a 
condition  that  whereas  they  are  bound  by  a  recognisance  in  3501. 
by  them  jointly  and  severally  made  to  certain  men  therein  named 
{above,  p.  461),  and  in  a  yearly  rent  of  81.  to  the  same  men  to  be 
taken  of  their  lands,  as  contained  in  certain  WTitings  thereupon  made, 
the  said  feoffees  or  their  heirs  shall  have  and  enjoy  the  premises 
until  of  the  issues  and  profits  thereof  or  otherwdse  they  or  their  heirs 
shall  be  contented  for  any  damages  or  grievances  they  shall  incur 
by  reason  of  the  securities  aforesaid,  and  that  then  it  shall  be  lawful 
for  the  said  Lionel  again  to  enter  the  premises  and  hold  them  in  his 
former  estate  without  gainsaying,  or  they  shall  thereof  dispose  according 
to  his  will,  and  as  shall  by  him  be  shewn  and  declared.  Witnesses  : 
Nicholas  de  Segrave,  Thomas  de  Hinton,  John  Olyver,  John  Rokele, 
Adam  Waryn,  Ralph  de  Tendryngge,  Thomas  Baynard,  Richard  de 
Bergholte.  Dated  Langenho,  Monday  after  the  Conversion  of  St.  Paul 
42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  8  February. 

Writing  of  Hugh  de  Badewe  knight,  William  de  Sancto  Omero  and 
Richard  de  Hertwell  parson  of  Westhorslegh,  giving  to  Ralph  Berners 
clerk  101.  of  rent  yearly  to  be  taken  during  his  life  of  their  manors  of 


464  CALENDAR    OT    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1368.  Membrane  25d — cont. 

Bemeston  and  Rothyngberners  at  the  four  principal  terms  by  even 
portions,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears.     Witnesses  :    John  de 
Kyngesfolde,  John  Guldesborgh,  Thomas  de  Berners,  Richard  Dent, 
Richard  Pruet.     Dated  Westhorlegh,  1  June  41  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  10  February  this  year. 

Writing  of  Hugh  de  Badewe  knight,  William  de  Sancto  Omero  and 
Richard  de  Hertwell  parson  of  Westhorslegh,  giving  to  Thomas  de 
Berners  \Ql.  of  rent  yearly  to  be  taken  during  his  life  of  their  manor 
of  Westhorslegh  at  the  four  principal  terms  by  even  portions,  with 
power  to  destrain  for  arrears.  Witnesses  :  John  de  Kyngesfolde,  John 
Guldesborgh,  Richard  Dent,  Wilham  Cotehull,  Richard  Pruet.  Dated 
Westhorslegh,  1  June  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  10  February  this  year. 

Feb.  10.  Edward  de  Twyford  knight  to  William  Latymer  knight.    Recogni- 

Westminster.  sance  for  200Z.,  to-be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Bukinghamshire. 

Feb.  11.         Richard  de  Wylford  of  Welbourne  to  John  de  Batheleye,     Recogni- 
Westminster.  sance  for  40/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Lincolnshire. 

Membrane  24d. 

Charter  of  John  Neumarche,  giving  with  warranty  to  Sir  Nicholas 
de  Spayne,  Sir  John  de  Folkyngham,  Sir  Robert  de  Muskham  clerks 
and  Richard  de  Batheleye,  then-  heirs  and  assigns,  all  the  lands, 
meadows,  woods  and  pastures  called  Bretonnesland  in  Haveryng 
atte  Boure  cp.  Essex,  with  all  other  lands,  rents,  services  of  free  tenants 
and  neifs,  all  neifs  and  all  that  goes  with  them,  and  all  reversions  in 
Haveryng  aforesaid  which  the  grantor  had  of  the  gift  of  Thomas 
Florak.     Dated  London,  10  February  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  12  February. 

Writing  of  Alana  daughter  of  Bernard  Bruys  of  Thrapston,  being  a 
quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Nicholas  Grene  and  Joan  his  wife  and 
to  the  heirs  of  the  said  Nicholas  of  the  manors  of  Exton  and  Conyngton, 
and  of  all  other  lands  held  by  the  said  Nicholas  and  Joan  in  the  said 
towns  and  in  Cotysmere,  Gretham  and  other  towns  and  counties  what- 
soever, with  the  advowsons  of  churches  and  chapels,  services,  customs, 
reversions,  parks,  woods  etc.  Witnesses  :  Nicholas  de  Thenford, 
Richard  de  Cloune,  John  Daundelyn,  John  de  la  Caruayle,  Mauger 
Vavasour,  Richard  de  Harbergh,  William  de  Rothewell.  Dated 
Isham,  Monday  after  the  Epiphany  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  14  February  this  year. 

Writing  of  Alana  daughter  of  Bernard  Bruys  of  Thrapston,  being 
a  quitclaim  mth  warranty  to  Robert  Louetoft  and  Agnes  his  wife  and 
to  the  heirs  of  the  said  Agnes  of  the  manors  of  Exton  and  Conyngton 
and  all  other  lands  held  by  the  said  Robert  and  Agnes  in  the  said 
towns  and  in  Cotysmor,  Gretham  and  other  towns  and  counties  what- 
soever, Anth  the  advowsons  of  churches  and  chapels,  services,  customs, 
reversions,  parks,  woods  etc.  Witnesses  :  Nicholas  de  Thenford,  Richard 
de  Cloune,  John  Daundelyn,  John  de  la  Caruayl,  Mauger  Vavasour, 
Richard  de  Haverbergh,  Wilham  de  Rothewell.     Dated  {as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   14  February  this  year. 


42    EDWARD    III.  405 


1308-  Membrane  24d — cont. 

Writing  of  Hugh  Dcni  clerk,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Sir  Thomas  de 
Grandesono  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  lands,  rents  and 
services  of  free  men  and  neifs  in  Somerset  which  he  the  said  Hugh 
had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Sir  'i'homas,  with  all  liberties,  customs 
etc.  thereto  belonging.  Dated  London,  Friday  after  the  Purification 
42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   15  February. 

Writing  of  Hugh  Dem  clerk,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Sir  William  de 
Monte  Acuto  earl  of  Salisbury,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  lands,  rents 
and  services  of  free  men  and  neifs  in  Somerset  which  he  the  said  Hugh 
had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Sir  Thomas  de  Grandesono  knight, 
with  all  liberties,  customs  etc.  thereto  belonging.  Dated  London, 
[  ]*  after  the  Purification  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  15  February. 

Feb.  15.         John  Sewale  of  Suthflete  co.  Kent  to  John  de  Bisshopeston  clerk 
Westminster,  and  John   Gour.     Recognisance   for   150?.,   to   be   levied,   in  default 
of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Kent. 

Feb.  15.         Walter  atte  Wode  of  Erhithe  co.  Kent  to  John  de  Bisshopeston 
Westminster,  clerk  and  John  Gour,     Recognisance  for  801.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in 
Kent. 

Charter  of  Henry  de  Bello  Monte  knight,  giving  to  the  king  and  his 
heirs  his  piece  of  land  with  a  garden  etc.  by  Cherryng  Cross  in  the 
parish  of  St.  Martin  in  the  Fields  as  enclosed  with  a  wall.  Witnesses  : 
William  bishop  of  Winchester  the  chancellor,  John  bishop  of  Ely 
the  treasurer,  John  duke  of  Lancastre,  Edmund  earl  of  Cantebrigge, 
John  atte  Lee,  John  de  Cobeham,  Robert  de  Thorp  knights,  WilUam 
de  Ippegrave,  Geoffrey  Lorentyn.  Dated  Westminster  palace, 
Tuesday  after  St.  Valentine  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  February. 

Feb.  26.  To  Alan  de  Buxhull  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London,  or  to  his 

Westminster.  lieutenant.  Order  to  set  free  John  Sibille  of  Chevelee  from  the  prison 
of  the  said  Tower,  where  for  particular  causes  he  is  detained,  by  the 
mainprise  of  Thomas  Cheyne,  Nicholas  de  Donyngton  and  Richard 
Brightwell  of  Cambridgeshii-e  ;  as  they  have  mainperned  under  a 
pain  of  100/.  to  have  him  before  the  king  in  chancery  in  the  month  of 
Easter  next  to  do  and  receive  what  shall  by  the  king  and  council  be 
appointed.  By  C. 

Membrane  2M. 

Feb.  11.  Robert  prior  of  Hautemprise  to  John  de  Delves  knight.     Recog- 

Westminster.  nisance  for  40Z.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Yorkshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Feb.  11.  John   de    Grey    of   Rotherfeld    to    Richard   de   Ravensere   clerk. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  100/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Bukinghamshire. 

Cancelled  on  pai/menf. 

*  The  day  omitted. 

L   311 


466  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS 


1368.  Membrane  23d — cont. 

Feb.  11.         John  Hodebouile  to  Richard  Lyons  and  Roger  More.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  10/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Essex. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  hy  the  said  Roger. 

Charter  of  John  son  of  Sir  John  de  Boueidone  knight,  giving  with 
warranty  to  Richard  earl  of  Arondell  and  Surrey,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
all  his  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Ertham  which  he  the  said  John  had 
by  gift  of  his  said  father.  Dated  Kenyngton  near  London,  10  February 
42  Edward  III.  Witnesses  :  Edward  de  Seint  Johan,  Henry  Husee 
knights,  John  de  Kyngesfold,  Thomas  de  la  More,  Henry  Whyssh,  John 
de  Ernele,  William  de  Polynges.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  Jolin  son  of  Jolm  de  Bouedone, 
12  February. 

Writing  of  Bartholomew  Pycot  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  daughter 
and  heir  of  John  Bluet  of  Rageland,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Lionel  duke  of  Clarence,  liis  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of 
Dagelyngworth  co.  Gloucester.     Dated  4  February,  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Bartholomew, 
12  February. 

Feb.  12.         Edward  de  Sancto  Johanne  knight   to  John   de  Delves  knight. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  2001.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Sussex. 

Writing  of  John  son  of  Sir  John  de  Bouedoune  knight  {militis), 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Ellis  Spelly  burgess  of  Bristol 
and  Agnes  his  wdfe,  the-  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  Ellis,  of  the 
manor  and  advowson  of  Kyngeston  Seymor  co.  Somerset,  and  of 
all  other  lands,  meadows,  woods,  feedings,  pastures,  rents,  services, 
reversions  etc.  whatsoever  which  the  said  Ellis  and  Agnes  formerly 
had  of  his  demise  in  the  said  town  ;  and  because  the  seal  of  the  said 
John  the  son  is  to  many  unknown,  he  has  procured  the  seal  of  John 
de  Panes  to  be  attached  to  this  writing,  and  further  for  better  security 
that  of  the  mayor  of  the  town  of  Bath  to  be  by  him  attached  in  person, 
which  mayor  and  John  de  Panes  have  so  done  at  his  request. 
Witnesses  :  John  de  Sancto  Laudo,  Humphrey  de  Stafford,  Philip 
FitzWaryn  knights,  Henry  de  Forde,  John  de  Pedreton,  John  Beket, 
Henry  Chaumpeneys,  John  de  la  Mare,  John  de  Mershton.  Dated 
Bath,  Sunday  before  the  Purification  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  12  February. 

Feb.  14.  John  Sotheron    of  Mitton  to  William  de  Mirfeld  clerk.     Recogni- 

Westminster.  sance  for  40s.  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Lancashire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Charter  of  John  son  of  John  de  Bouedon  knight  {militis),  giving 
with  warranty  to  Sir  Edward  de  Sancto  Johanne  knight,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  all  his  lands  called  If  old  in  Keuredeford,  which  he  the  said 
Jolin  had  of  his  said  father's  gift.  Witnesses  :  Walter  da  Pavele 
knight,  John  de  Sancto  Johanne,  Thomas  de  la  More,  John  de  Ernele, 
Thomas  de  Hunston,  William  Jakeman.  Dated  Reygate,  16  February 
42  Edward  III. 

MemoraTidum  of  acknowledgment,   17  February. 


42    EDWAllD    III. 


467 


1368. 


Membrane  '2'M — conL 


Feb.  20.  To  ^^'illiam  dc  Quappclade.     Order,   at  his  peril,   not  to  meddle 

Westminster,  hencefoi'ward  in  the  execution  of  the  king's  late  commission  joining 
him  with  Reynold  de  Grey  of  Ruthyn,  Thomas  de  Hoo,  Roger  de 
Trumpynton,  John  de  Middelton  and  Alexander  Bozoun  guardians  of 
the  peace  and  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  Redfordshire,  and  in 
performing  certain  other  things  in  the  letters  patent  contained,  deliver- 
ing forthwith  to  the  said  guardians  the  original  commission,  and  the 
indictments,  records,  processes,  rolls  and  memoranda  in  his  keeping 
which  concern  their  office  ;  as  for  particular  causes  laid  before  the 
king  and  council  the  king  has  discharged  the  said  William  of  that 
office.  '  By  K. 

Feb.  23.         John  Randolf  prebendary  of  Dunstan  in  the  king's  free  chapel  of 

Westminster.  Pencrich  and  John  Heyn  parson  of  Bridham  in  the  diocese  of  Cicestre 

to  John  de  Rasen  clerk.    Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  20?.  payable 

by  instalments  ;    to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands 

and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Staffordshire. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  John 
Randolf  and  John  Heyn  pay  6  marks  of  the  sum  aforesaid  within 
the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next,  and  other  6  marks  within  the  quinzaine 
of  Michaelmas  following. 

Feb.  20.  To  the  sheriffs  and  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London. 

Westminster.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  William  Brykles  merchant  of  London, 
to  suffer  him  to  put  on  board  a  small  ship  of  John  de  Maryn  certain 
victuals  and  armoui'  for  the  furnishing  and  defence  of  a  ship  by  him 
new  made  at  Shorham  and  called  '  la  George '  of  London,  and  other 
things  needful  for  the  gear  thereof  by  him  made  ready  and  purveyed 
at  London,  and  to  take  them  freely  without  let  to  the  said  town  of 
Shorham,  any  command  to  the  said  sheriffs  and  keepers  addressed 
to  the  contrary  notwithstanding  ;  as  he  has  prayed  the  king's  licence 
so  to  do,  and  William  Waryn  and  Roger  Estfeld  merchants  of  London 
have  mainperned  for  him  that  he  will  take  the  said  victuals,  armour 
etc.  to  Shorham  for  the  purpose  aforesaid  and  not  elsewhere. 

March  10.  John  de  Stoke  clerk,  John  de  Sutton  of  Setryngton,  William  Savage 
Westminster,  of  York  and  WilUam  de  Oteryngton  of  York  to  the  dean  and 
college  of  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within  Westminster 
palace.  Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  300?.  payable  by  instal- 
ments ;  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels 
in  Yorkshire. 

Memorandum  that  this  recognisance  was  received  by  William  de 
Fyncheden,  by  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus  potestatem  which  is  on  the 
file  for  this  year. 


Membrane  22d. 

Feb.  24.  To  S.  archbishop  of  Canterbury.      Summons  to  a  parliament  to 

Westminster,  be  holden  at  Westminster  on  1  May  next ;    warning  the  prioi  and 

chapter  of  Christ  Church  Canterbury,  the  archdeacons  and  clergy  of 

his  diocese  to  be  present,  the  said  prior  and  archdeacons  in  person 

the  chapter  by  one  proctor  and  the  clergy  by  two.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Rep.  on  Dignity  of  a  Peer,  iv.  p.  641.] 


468  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1368.  Membrane  22d — cont. 

The  like  to  John  archbishop  of  York,  Thomas  bishop  of  Durham 
and  eighteen  other  bishops,  of  whom  the  bishops  of  Llandaff,  Bangor 
and  St.  Asaph  are  not  named. 

[Ibid.  p.  642.] 

To  the  abbot  of  Glastonbury.  Summons  to  attend  the  said  parlia- 
ment. By  K.  and  C. 

The  like  to  the  abbot  of  St.  Augustine  Canterbury  and  21  other 
abbots,  the  prior  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  and  the  prior 
of  Coventre. 

[Ibid.-] 

To  Edward  prince  of  Aquitaine  and  Wales.  Summons  to  the 
said  parliament.  By   K.   and  C. 

The  hke  to  John  duke  of  Lancastre,  Edmund  earl  of  Cantebrigge  and 
nine  other  earls,  Henry  de  Percy  the  father  and  forty  others. 

[Ibid.-] 

To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order  to  cause  two  knights  of  the  shire, 
two  citizens  of  every  city  and  two  burgesses  of  every  borough  to  be 
elected  and  come  to  the  said  parhament.  By  K.  and  C. 

The  Hke  to  singular  the  sheriffs  of  England. 

[Ibid.  p.  643.] 

To  Ralph  Spigurnel  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of 
the  Cinque  Ports,  or  to  his  lieutenant.  Order  to  cause  two  barons 
of  every  such  port  to  be  elected  and  come  to  the  said  parhament. 

[Ibid.]  By  K.  and  C. 

To  John  Knyvet.     Summons  to  the  said  parliament.      By  K.  and  C. 
The  like  to  Robert  de  Thorp  and  seven  others. 
[Ibid.  p.  644.1 

March  10.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  William 
Westminster.  Fabel,  to  stay  the  exigents  against  the  said  William  and  the  taking 
of  his  body  by  the  mainprise  of  William  Grys  of  Essex  and  Clement 
de  Lenne  of  London  '  draper,'  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of 
the  Bench  on  the  day  the  writ  de  judicio  is  returnable  ;  as  his  petition 
shews  that  Robert  Marny  knight  is  impleading  him  before  the  said 
justices  for  a  debt  of  il.  19s.,  that  by  writ  dp.  judicio  he  was  put  in 
exigents  in  the  busting  of  London  for  that  he  came  net  before  them  to 
answer  the  said  Robert,  and  that  he  is  ready  so  to  answer  and  to  stand 
to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  William  Grys  and  Clement  have 
mainperned  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  20L  to  have  him  before  the 
said  justices  on  the  day  aforesaid. 

April  3.  To  the  sheriff  of  Wiltes.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Ralph  Colles 

Westminster,  and  Nicholas  Abbot,  to  stay  the  exigents  against  them  and  the  taking 
of  their  bodies  by  the  mainprise  of  Richard  Wolhampton  and  \^^illiam 
North  of  the  said  county,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the 
Bench  on  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable  ;  as  their  petition 
shews  that  William  Beneyt  is  impleading  them  before  the  said  justices 
for  an  alleged  trespass,  and  that  thougli  they  are  ready  to  answer  him  and 
to  stand  to  right  in  all  things,  they  are  put  in  exigents  to  be  outlaA\ed 


42    EJ)WAIli)    111.  409 


13()8d  Membrane  22d — conl. 

for  that  the  shorilY  of  malice  returned  before  the  said  Justices  that 
they  were  not  found  in  his  baiUwick  nor  liad  aught  therein,  and  for 
that  they  came  not  before  tlie  said  justices  to  answer,  praying  for 
remedy ;  and  they  have  found  in  cliancery  the  said  Richard  and 
WilHam  North,  who  have  mainperned  body  for  body  to  have  them 
before  the  said  justices  on  the  day  aforesaid. 

To  the  same.  Like  order,  mutatis  mutandis,  upon  the  petition  of 
Ralph  Colles  and  Thomas  Brewe,  who  are  impleaded  by  John  Uuyn 
for  an  alleged  trespass,  and  have  found  the  same  mainpernors. 

Membrane  2ld. 

Indenture  made  between  John  Devenyssh  skinner  and  '  Ede  '  Purchas 
of  London  draper  of  the  one  part  and  Walter  de  Clopton,  Nicholas 
Bledewyne  and  Richard  Brice  of  the  other  part,  being  a  grant  to 
the  said  Walter,  Nicholas  and  Richard  that  they  shall  take  and  have  all 
the  profits  of  the  lands  and  rents  of  Sir  Eustace  Dabrichecourt  knight 
in  Devonshire,  '  Hamptesshire,'  Somerset  and  Gloucestershire  as  fully  as 
the  said  John  and  '  Ede  '  have  execution  thereof  by  virtue  of  a  statute 
merchant  of  the  staple  whereby  Sir  Eustace  is  bound  to  them  in 
•316/.  4s.,  rendering  to  the  said  John  and  '  Ede  '  within  two  years 
in  the  said  John's  house  in  the  parish  of  AUhallows  in  the  Roperie 
London  the  sums  following,  to  wit  one  moiety  of  the  said  sum  the 
first  year  at  Whitsuntide  and  All  Saints  by  even  portions,  and  the 
other  moiety  thereof  the  second  year  at  the  same  feasts  by  even 
portions  ;  and  in  respect  of  damages  for  Avithholding  the  said  sum 
beyond  the  day  of  payment  and  their  costs  at  divers  times  in  divers 
counties  incurred  or  yet  to  be  incurred  in  the  business,  the  parties  to 
the  said  statute  shall  be  at  the  award  of  the  bishop  of  Winchester 
the  chancellor  [and]  of  the  earl  of  Arundell  in  case  they  wall  arbitrate, 
or  of  Sir  Robert  de  Thorp  and  Sir  Thomas  de  Lodelowe  if  they  will 
arbitrate,  or  of  Walter  de  Clopton  and  Walter  de  Perle  within  two 
years  from  this  date,  and  in  case  they  will  not  the  said  parties  will 
go  to  law,  the  said  John  and  '  Ede  '  reserving  power  to  them  and 
their  executors  again  to  enter  and  hold  the  said  lands  and  rents  until 
recompense  be  made  them  for  any  default.  Be  it  remembered  that 
the  said  John  and  '  Ede  '  then  had  no  profit  thereof,  nor  seisin  or 
execution,  save  seven  days  before  this  date.  Dated  London,  24  March 
42  Edward  IIL     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  John  and  '  Ede,' 
Walter  and  Nicholas,  in  the  chancery  at  London,  25  March. 

Charter  of  Walter  fitz  Wauter  lord  of  Wodeham,  giving  with 
warranty  to  Thomas  bishop  of  Norwich,  Master  William  de  Blyth 
archdeacon  of  Norft'olk,  Robert  Kelby  parson  of  Hemmyngesby,  Jolin 
de  Wyllyngham  parson  of  Great  Teye  and  John  de  Kyngesfold,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  his  manors  of  Lexden,  Cage  and  Carykesheth 
CO.  Essex,  his  inn  and  rent  in  London,  all  liis  purparty  of  the  manors  of 
Thrustonton  co.  Suffolk,  Multon  and  Flete  which  was  of  Thomas 
fitz  Wauter  his  uncle,  and  of  the  manors  of  Beausolas  and  Skyrbek 
CO.  Lincoln.  Witnesses  :  Edmund  de  Thorp,  Richard  de  Schelton, 
Robert  de  Ilketelishale  knights,  Stephen  Payoun,  Thomas  Goodwyne, 
Richard  de  Upston,  Simon  Warenner,  John  Brysyngham,  Robert 
Bolour,  Richard  Whyte.     Dated  Hemenhale,  1  March  42  Edward  III. 


470 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1368.  Membrane  21d — cont. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  the  priory 
of  St.  Mary  Suthwerk,  17  March. 

March  15.  To  the  sheriff  of  Bukingham.  Order  to  stay  the  pubhcation  of 
Westminster,  the  exigents  against  John  Middelton  and  the  taking  of  his  body  by 
the  mainprise  of  Roger  Dore,  Walter  Leycestre,  John  Rouland  and 
William  Bettenham  of  Middlesex,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  king 
on  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
that  John  Chilterne,  the  said  John  Middelton,  William  Latre  and 
William  Barham  are  put  in  exigents  in  Bukinghamshire  to  be  out- 
lawed for  that  they  came  not  before  the  king  concerning  their  ransom 
for  not  having  John  de  Miriden  and  Margery  his  wife  before  the  king 
in  his  court  at  the  day  appointed  as  they  mainperned  to  do  ;  and  now 
the  said  John  de  Middelton  has  prayed  the  king  to  stay  the  publica- 
tion as  aforesaid,  inasmuch  as  he  is  ready  to  content  the  king  for  his 
ransom  in  that  behalf  and  to  stand  to  right  in  all  thmgs  ;  and  the 
said  Roger,  Walter,  John  Rouland  and  William  Bettenham,  appearing 
in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  10  marks  to 
have  him  before  the  king  at  the  day  above  mentioned. 

William  de  Barham,  put  in  exigents  in  Bukinghamshire  for  the 
same  cause,  has  the  like  writ  by  mainprise  of  William  Larke  and 
Thomas  Merhyth  under  a  pain  of  10  marks. 

March  24.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  cause  proclamation 
Westminster,  to  be  made  in  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London,  that  all  merchants, 
vintners  and  others  cause  their  wines  for  sale  to  be  forthwith  gauged 
under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof,  making  diligent  search  touching  the 
matter,  causing  all  wines  found  exposed  for  sale  and  not  gauged  after 
the  proclamation  to  be  taken  as  forfeit  into  the  king's  hand  according 
to  the  statutes,  causing  to  be  taken  and  imprisoned  until  further  order 
all  those  who  shall  make  debate  or  resistance  and  will  not  suffer 
their  wines  for  sale  to  be  gauged,  and  certifying  under  seal  in  chancery 
from  time  to  time  the  wines  so  arrested,  the  price,  description  and 
owners  thereof  ;  as  in  the  statute  pubhshed  at  Westminster  in  the 
27th  year  of  the  reign  it  is  contained  (inter  alia)  that  all  red  wines 
and  white  brought  for  sale  to  the  realm  of  England  or  the  lands  of 
Ireland  and  Wales  shall  be  well  and  truly  gauged  by  the  king's  ganger 
or  his  deputy,  so  that  if  any  man  shall  make  hindrance  or  debate 
hereupon,  not  mlling  to  suffer  his  wines  to  be  gauged,  he  shall  forfeit 
the  same,  be  punished  by  imprisonment,  and  be  ransomed  at  the 
king's  will,  and  if  the  tun  or  pipe  of  wine  for  sale  shall  contain  less  than 
it  ought  according  to  the  assize,  the  price  of  so  much  as  shall  so  be 
lacking  shall  be  allowed  and  subtracted  in  the  payment  thereof 
according  to  the  price  of  such  tun  or  pipe  ;  and  in  another  statute 
published  in  the  .31st  year  it  is  contained  that  if  any  man  shall  sell  to 
any  a  tun  or  pipe  of  wine  not  gauged,  the  seller  shall  forfeit  that  wine 
to  the  king  or  the  value  thereof  ;  and  now  the  king  is  informed  that 
certain  merchants,  as  well  vintners  of  the  city  of  London  as  others, 
seeking  excessive  and  unlawful  gain,  are  causing  great  number  of 
tuns  and  pipes  of  wine  not  gauged  to  be  lodged  without  the  knowledge 
of  the  king's  ganger,  and  have  long  been  selling  and  do  daily  sell  the 
same  to  nobles  and  others  as  if  they  contained  a  right  prise,  though 
they  do  not  but  greatly  lack,  taking  for  them  the  full  price,  in  contempt 
of  the  king,  to  the  hurt  and  deceit  of  the  people,  the  loss  and  prejudice 
of  the  ganger,  and  contrary  to  the  statutes. 
[Foedera.] 


42    EDVVAllJ)    m.  471 


1368.  Membrane  2ld — cord. 

April  29.         Geoffrey  Lucy  knight  to  John  Wrotli  the  elder  citizen  of  London. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  100  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of 
his  lands  and  chattels  in  Norhamptonshire. 

Charter  of  William  Wyot  of  Colbroke,  giving  with  warranty  to 
William  de  llawe  and  Lettice  his  wife,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  his 
tenement  with  garden  adjoining  situate  in  the  town  of  Westminster  in 
Charryng  street  bet\A'een  a  tenement  of  William  Ippegrave  towards  the 
east  and  a  tenement  of  Thomas  Trillowe  towards  the  west.  Witnesses  : 
William  Ippegrave,  Kobert  de  Kent,  Thomas  Braunsby,  John  de 
Shelton,  John  W^antyng.  Dated  Cherryng,  Friday  after  St.  Gregory 
the  Martyr  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  30  April. 

May  2.  William  de  Auteleye  to  John   Sotheron.     Recognisance  for   lOl., 

Westminster,  to  be  levied,   in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands   and  chattels   in 
Lancashire. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Neville  of  Horneby  knight,  being  a  bond  to 
Queen  Philippa  in  201.  received  as  a  loan,  payable  at  London  at 
Michaelmas  next.     Dated  London,  3  May  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  May. 

May  4.  William  de  Swanlond  to  John  de  Montvyron  of  Essex.      Recogni- 

Westminster.  sance  for  1001. ,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Middlesex. 

Membrane  20d. 

Charter  of  John  Grey  of  Retherfeld  knight,  giving  with  warranty 
to  Edmund  Giffard  of  Stanlake,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  one  acre  of 
land  in  Stanlake  lying  in  Brodecroft  between  a  piece  of  land  called 
Giffardisplace  on  the  south  and  land  of  Agnes  lady  of  Bradeston 
on  the  north,  with  the  advowson  of  Stanlake  church.  Witnesses  : 
Thomas  Besyles,  John  Golafre  knights,  Thomas  atte  More,  Robert 
Tresilian,  John  Budelle  of  Stanlake,  Thomas  Stephnis  of  Stanlake. 
Dated  Stanlake,  6  May  42  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  John  Grey  of  Retherfeld  knight,  being  a  letter  of  attorney 
to  Reynold  Blokle  chaplain  of  Stanlake  and  William  Scarlet,  to  put 
Edmund  Giffard  of  Stanlake  in  seisin  of  one  acre  of  land  in  Stanlake 
lying  in  Brodecroft  between  land  called  Giffardesplace  on  tlie  south 
and  land  of  Agnes  lady  of  Bradeston  on  the  north,  to  hold  with  the 
advowson  of  Stanlake  church.  Witnesses  ;  Thomas  Besiles,  John 
Golafre  knights,  Thomas  atte  More,  Robert  Tresilian.  Dated  Stan- 
lake, 8  May  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings,  9  May. 

Indenture  made  at  Cogges  co.  Oxford  on  the  feast  of  St.  Thomas  the 
Apostle  41  Edward  III  between  John  Grey  of  Retherfeld  knight  and 
Edmund  Giffard  of  Stanlake,  whereby  the  said  Edmuad  surrenders 
to  the  said  John,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  all  his  estate  in  one  acre  of 
land  in  Stanlake,  parcel  of  the  manor  of  Stanlake,  lying  in  Brodecroft 
between  a  piece  of  land  called  Giffardisplace  on  the  south  and  land 
of  Agnes  lady  of  Bradeston  on  the  north,  saving  to  the  said  Edmund 


472  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1368.  Membrane  20d — cont. 

all  his  estate  in  the  whole  manor  aforesaid  the  said  acre  excepted. 
Witnesses :  Thomas  Resiles,  John  Golafre  knightS;  Thomas  atte 
More,  Robert  Tresilian,  John  Laundels,  John  Ledulle. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Edmund,  9  May 
this  year. 

Charter  indented  of  Roger  la  Warre  lord  of  Fokyngton,  giving 
with  warranty  to  John  la  Warre  knight  his  eldest  son  and  Elizabeth 
his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  the  manor  and  advowson  of 
Fokyngton  with  all  liberties  etc.,  the  manor  of  Porteslade  with  all 
liberties  etc.  and  Avith  its  members  of  Aldryngton  and  Estfeld  and 
the  advowson  of  Aldryngton  church  co.  Sussex,  the  manor  and  ad- 
vowson of  Wykewarre  co.  Gloucester  with  all  liberties  etc.,  and 
the  manor  of  Sixhull  co.  Lincoln  with  all  hberties  etc.,  rendering  one 
rose  a  year  at  Midsummer  to  the  said  Roger  and  his  heirs,  and  per- 
forming for  them  the  services  to  the  chief  lords  due  and  accustomed. 
Witnesses  :  Sir  Robert  de  Holland  knight,  Sir  Luke  de  Ponygh', 
knight.  Sir  Thomas  Latymer  of  Braybroke  knight,  Roger  Dalyngrigge, 
William  Tawk,  Robert  Boteler,  John  de  Wyke.  Dated  Isefeld, 
Monday  after  the  Invention  of  Holy  Cross  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  10  May. 

Indenture  of  Roger  la  Warre  lord  of  Ewyas  Harald,  granting  to 
Dame  Elizabeth  wife  of  John  la  Warre  his  eldest  son  a  yearly  rent 
of  100  marks  to  be  taken  during  her  life  of  his  castle  and  manor  of 
Ewyas  Harald  in  the  march  of  Wales,  to  wit  at  Michaelmas,  Christmas, 
Easter  and  Midsummer  by  even  portions,  upon  condition  that  if 
she  survive  her  said  husband,  and  she  or  her  assigns  peaceably  con- 
tinue their  possession  in  the  manors  of  Sixhull  and  Wykewarre  during 
her  life  mthout  being  thereof  or  of  any  parcel  thereof  impleaded 
or  put  out  by  any  the  heirs  of  the  said  Roger's  body  this  rent  shall 
be  void,  and  subject  to  that  condition  the  said  Elizabeth  shall  have 
power  to  distrain  for  arrears  in  tlie  said  castle  and  manor  ;  and  to 
assure  her  estate  in  the  said  rent  upon  the  condition  aforesaid,  the 
said  Roger  has  put  her  in  possession  thereof  by  payment  of  \d. 
Dated  his  manor  of  Isefeld,  Monday  after  the  feast  of  Holy  Cross 
42  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  aclcnowledgment  by  the  said  Roger,  10  May. 

Writing  of  Ralph  Boce,  cousin  and  heir  of  Simon  le  Deneys,  being 
a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Guy  de  Bryene  knight,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Wroxhale  co.  Dorset.  Dated 
Friday  after  St.  PhiUp  and  St.  James  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  12  May. 

Writing  of  John  Gray  of  Retherfeld  knight,  declaring  that  he  was 
seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  to  him  and  his  heirs  for  ever,  of  one 
acre  of  land  in  Stanlake  lying  in  Brodecroft  between  a  piece  of  land 
called  '  Giffard  isplace '  on  the  south  and  land  of  Agnes  lady  of 
Bradeston  on  the  north  together  with  the  advowson  of  Stanlake 
church,  and  by  his  charter  gave  the  premises  out  of  that  seisin  to 
Edmund  GyfT?rd  of  Stanlake,  his  heirs  aad  assigns,  by  virtue  whereof 
he  the  said  Edmund  is  now  in  full  and  peaceable  seisin  of  the  same, 
to  him,  his  heirs  and  assigns  for  ever  ;    and  quitclaim  of  the  premises 


42    EDWARD    111. 


473 


1368. 


Membrane  20d — cont. 


to  the  said  Edmund,  his  heirs  and  assigns.  Witncssci :  Thomas 
licsilcs,  John  Gohitio  kniglits,  Thomas  attc  Moio,  Robert  Tresulyan, 
Jolin  Laundels,  John  Bedull  of  Stanlake.  Dated  StanlaUe,  13  May 
42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  19  May. 

May  20.         William  de  Melton  knight  and  Henry  do  Barton  to  Gilbert  earl  of 
Westminster.  Anegos.     Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  240/.,  to  be  levied,  in 
default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Yorkshire. 
Cancelled  on  'payment. 

May  17.         John  Heron  knight  and  Roger  de  Widryngton  to  Thomas  de  Bello 
Westminster.  Campo  earl  of  Warrewyk.     Joint  and  several  recognisance  for   100 
marks,  to  be  levied  etc.,  in  Northumberland. 

Membrane  l^d. 

March  29.        Henry  de  Bello  Monte  knight  to  Richard  earl  of  Arundell  and 
Westminster.  Surrey.     Recognisance  for  1,000Z.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Lincolnshire. 

March  31.  To  the  sheriff  of  Stafford.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Roger 
Westminster.  Cheyne  knight,  to  stay  the  taking  of  his  body  and  the  exigents  against 
him  by  the  mainprise  of  Robert  de  Fekenham,  Roger  Cheyne  the 
younger  and  John  de  Higgesleye  of  Salop,  bringing  this  writ  before 
the  justices  of  the  Bench  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable  ; 
as  his  said  petition  shews  that  Robert  bishop  of  Coventre  and  Lichfield 
is  impleading  him  before  the  said  justices  for  a  debt  of  40Z.,  and  that 
he  is  put  in  exigents  in  Staffordshire  to  be  outlawed  for  that  the  sheriff 
has  of  malice  returned  that  he  was  not  found,  and  for  that  he  came 
not  before  the  said  justices  to  answer  the  bishop  in  that  plea,  though 
he  was  and  yet  is  ready  so  to  answer,  and  to  stand  to  right  in  all 
things  ;  and  he  has  found  in  chancery  the  said  Robert,  Roger  and 
John,  who  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  '201.  for  the  said  Roger 
Cheyne  knight,  body  for  body,  to  have  his  body  before  the  said  justices 
on  the  aforesaid  day  to  answer  the  said  bishop. 

May  5.  Thomas  Chese  of  the  town  of  Westminster  to  William  Wyot  of 

Westminster.  Colbroke.     Recognisance  for  lOZ.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  JVIiddlesex. 


May  5.  John  de  Sakeville  to  John  de  Hotoft. 

Westminster,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Sussex. 


Recognisance  for  20  marks, 


May  5.  William   de   Langham   knight   to   Henry   Dureward   of   Bockyng. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  40/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Essex. 

May  10.  Robert  Fitz  Payn  knight  to  Guy  de  Bryene  knight.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  200/.  payable  by  instalments,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Somerset. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

May  12.         Giles  de  Arderne  to  Thomas  Benet  of  Warwyk.     Recognisance  for 
Westminster.  40  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Oxfordshhe. 

Charter  of  Roger  la  Warre  lord  of  Mamchestre,  giving  with  warranty 
to  Thomas  de  Bothe  and  to  the  heirs  of  his  body  all  lands,  rents  and 
services  with  the  free  tenants  in  Barton  within  these  bounds,  beginning 


474  CALENDAR    OP   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1368.  Membrane  19d — cont. 

at  the  bounds  of  Trafford  and  Little  Bolton  to  Cadwalysheved  in 
length,  and  from  the  bounds  of  Workyslegh  and  Swenton  to  the  bounds 
of  Stretford,  Hurmeston  and  Flixton  in  breadth ;  also  Bradford 
hamlet,  Hepensagh  with  the  hamlets  of  Ardwyk  in  the  lo^-dship  of 
Mamchestre,  a  piece  of  land  called  Pycrofte  mth  a  piece  of  land  called 
Flourlach,  and  a  piece  of  land  called  Marchalfeld  in  the  lordship  of 
Mamchestre,  rendering  to  the  said  Roger  and  his  heirs  during  the 
life  of  the  said  Thomas  lOZ.  14.s.  2d.  a  year  at  Christmas  and  Midsummer 
by  even  portions,  and  after  his  death  Id.  at  Christmas  for  all  services 
and  demands.  Dated  Mamchestre,  the  feast  of  St.  Katherine  31 
Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  12  May  this  year. 

Writing  of  Robert  Rodyngton  parson  of  Claxdone,  declaring  that 
John  de  Grey  of  Retherfeld  knight  was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of 
fee  to  him,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  one  acre  of  land  in  Stanlake  lying  in 
Brodecrofte  between  a  piece  of  land  called  Giffardisplace  on  the  south 
and  land  of  Agnes  lady  of  Bradeston  on  the  north  together  with  the 
advowson  of  Stanlake  church,  and  by  his  charter  gave  the  premises 
out  of  that  seisin  to  Edmund  Gyffard  of  Stanlake,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
by  virtue  whereof  he  the  said  Edmund  is  now  in  full  and  peaceable 
seisin  of  the  same  ;  and  quitclaim  of  the  premises  to  the  said  Edmund, 
his  heirs  and  assigns.  Witnesses  :  Thomas  Besiles,  John  Golafre 
knights,  Thomas  atte  More,  Robert  Tresilyan,  John  Laundels,  John 
Bedulle  of  Stanlake,  Thomas  Styvyns  of  Stanlake,  John  Vincent  of 
Stanlake,  John  Wysman  of  Stanlake.  Dated  Stanlake,  10  May 
42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  12  May. 

Writing  of  Reynold  de  Eccles  and  Richard  de  Waterden,  being  a 
quitclaim  to  Edward  de  Berkele  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the 
third  part  of  the  manor  of  Hykelyngg  co.  Norfolk  called  Netherhalle, 
and  the  thud  part  of  the  manor  of  Ryshangles  co.  Suffolk,  now  held 
by  the  said  Edward  for  his  life  by  the  courtesy  of  England,  of  their 
heritage  by  virtue  of  a  grant  of  Thomas  de  Sancto  Omero  knight 
made  to  the  said  Reynold  and  Richard  and  to  Roger  parson  of  Flordon 
and  Thomas  Waxman,  which  Roger  and  Thomas  Waxman  have 
released  their  right  in  the  premises  to  the  said  Reynold  and  Richard. 
Witnesses  :  Edmund  de  Thorp,  Thomas  de  la  Ryvere,  John  le  Groos 
knights,  William  Hervy,  Henry  de  Colkyrke,  Robert  Cryspyng. 
Dated  Hikelyng,  5  May,  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  aclmowledgment,  12  May. 

May  13.  John  de  Kirkeby  clerk  and  John  de  Bretton  to  Matthew  de  Assheton 

Westminster,  parson  of  Shutlyngdon.  Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  40Z.,  to 
be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in 
Norhamptonshire. 

Writing  of  John  Pyfhide,  son  of  William  Fyfhide,  being  a  general 
release  to  William  Fyfhide  his  brother  of  all  actions  real  and  personal. 
Dated  Westminster,  10  May  42  Edward  III.  Witnesses  :  Sir  John 
Knyvet,  Sir  John  Foxle  knights,  Sir  WilUam  Horewyk  chaplain. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  May. 


42   EDWARD   III.  475 


13()8.  Membrane  Idd — cont. 

Return  of  Edmund  Savage  escheator  in   Derbyshire  to  a  writ  to 

him  addressed,  assigning  dower  to  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  l*hiHp 

son  and  heir  of  W^illiam  de  Strelleye  tenant  in  ehief,  of  the  lands  of 
the  said  Phihp  which  came  to  the  king's  hands  by  his  death  and  by 
reason  of  the  nonage  of  liis  heir,  the  said  Pliihp  having  died  within 
age  and  in  the  king's  wardship,  namely  two  thuds  of  the  mill  of  ]5urgh 
value  266\  Sd.  a  year,  two  thirds  of  one  carucate  of  land  and  meadow  in 
Repyndon  value  20s.,  two  thirds  of  tlie  park  of  Rcpyndon  value  6s.  Sd., 
and  four  fifths  of  a  sixth  part  of  the  water  mill  of  Repyndon  value 
4s.  5d.  a  year. 

May  22.         Peter  de  Veel  knight  to  John  de  Delves  knight.     Recognisance  for 
Westminster.  801.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and   chattels 
in  Gloucestershire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

May  22.         William  de  Colonia  canon  of  the  church  of  St.  Paul  London  to 

Westminster.  William  de  Sandford  clerk.     Recognisance  for  280/.,  to  be  levied  etc. 

of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  the  city  of  London. 

May  22.         William  de  Colonia  canon  of  the  church  of  St.  Paul  London  to  WilHam 
Westminster,  de  Sandford  clerk.     Recognisance  for  801.,  to  be  levied  etc.    in  the 
city  of  London. 

Membrane  \8d. 

Writing  of  Roger  son  and  heir  of  Richard  Stanlake  of  Wytteneye 
CO.  Oxford,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Sir  John  Bleobury 
clerk,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  lands  meadows,  woods,  feedings 
and  pastures  which  the  said  John  holds  in  Carswell,  Crotebrugg  and 
Aston  by  Bampton  co.  Oxford  of  the  demise  of  John  Spacy  and  Jolin 
Middelton  chaplains.  Witnesses  :  John  de  Evesham,  Thomas  Austyn, 
Thomas  Carswell,  Thomas  Bygenet,  Jolm  Carswell,  John  Babbelake, 
Robert  Kyng.  Dated  Wytteneye,  the  feast  of  St.  Philip  and  St.  James 
42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  May. 

Writing  of  Roger  son  and  heir  of  Richard  Stanlake  of  Wytteneye, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  vicar  of  W^ytteneye  and 
John  Bussh  chaplain,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a  tenement  with  a 
garden  in  the  to\vn  of  Wytteneye  situate  between  a  tenement  of 
John  de  Denlegh  and  a  tenement  sometime  of  Thomas  Campelham, 
of  two  shambles  in  the  said  town,  and  of  24  acres  of  arable  land  in  the 
town  of  Cogges,  all  which  the  said  vicar  and  John  Bussh  have  and 
now  hold  by  demise  of  John  Spacy  vicar  of  Bradelegh  and  John 
Midelton  chaplain.  Witnesses :  Thomas  Austyn,  John  Carswell, 
Thomas  Frytewell,  John  de  Denlegh,  Wilham  Buntyng.  Dated 
Wytteneye,  5  June  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  May  this  year. 

Writing  of  Roger  son  and  heir  of  Richard  de  Stanlake  of  Wytteneye, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Sir  John  Spacy  vicar  of  Brade- 
legh and  Sir  John  de  Middelynton  chaplain,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of 
all  the  lands  they  have  in  the  towns  of  Wytteneye,  Haille  and  Craule 
CO.    Oxford     and     Sutton    Curteneye    co.    Berks     of    the    grant    of 


476  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1368.  Membrane  I8d — cont. 

William  Curteys  of  Sutton  Curteneye  and  Isabel  his  Avife  mother  of  the 
said  Roger,  which  ought  after  the  said  Isabel's  death  to  descend  to 
the  said  Roger,  and  whereof  they  are  now  in  full  and  peaceable  seisin. 
Witnesses  :  Thomas  Austyn,  John  Carswell,  Thomas  Bygenet,  John 
Babbelake,  William  Buntyng,  Hugh  Curtlynton.  Dated  Wytteneye, 
the  feast  of  St.  John  ante  Portam  Latinam  42  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  May. 

Writing  of  Simon  Daventre,  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Daventre  of  Nor- 
hamptonshire,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Robert  de  Char- 
welton  clerk,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a  parcel  of  wood  called  Armesle 
in  the  parish  of  Maideford.  Witnesses  :  Jolin  Wake  of  Clyfton,  John 
Fitz  Johan,  John  Vavasour.  Dated  Clyfton,  Saturday  after  '  Sedde ' 
42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  15  May. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Driffeld  and  Richard  de  Wandesford  merchant 
of  London,  being  a  receipt  and  acquittance  to  Sir  David  de  Wollore 
and  Sir  Michael  de  Ravendale  for  62/.  18s.  4:d.  of  the  money  of  the  said 
Richard  to  his  use,  which  sum  was  in  a  bag  sealed  with  the  seals  of 
the  said  Thomas  and  Richard,  and  put  in  keeping  of  the  said  David 
and  Michael  by  the  chancellor's  command.  Dated  London,  14  May 
42  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  15  May. 


Membrane  lid. 

May  20.  To  the  sheriff  of  Bukingham.     Order  to  cause  a  regard  to  be  made 

Westminster,  in  the  forest  of  Bernewode  according  to  the  form  of  the  ca/pitula 
following,  so  that  the  same  be  made  before  All  Saints  next. 

Ca'pitula. 
The  like  to  the  sheriff  of  Oxford  for  making  a  regard  in  the  forest 
of  Shotore  and  Stowode  before  All  Saints,. 

May  22.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lancastre.     Order  to  summon  the  archbishops, 

Westminster,  bishops,  abbots,  priors,  earls,  barons,  knights  and  all  freeholders 
having  lands  within  the  bounds  of  the  forest  of  Jolin  duke  of  Lan- 
castre the  king's  son  in  Lancashire,  four  men  and  the  reeve  of  every 
town,  the  foresters  of  the  towns,  and  all  others  who  are  used  and 
ought  to  come  before  the  king's  justices  for  pleas  of  the  forest,  to  be  at 
Lancastre  on  Monday  after  St.  James  the  Apostle  next  before  John 
Knyvet,  William  de  Fyncheden,  Godfrey  de  Foljaumbe,  WilUam 
Croyser  and  Peter  atte  Wode,  justices  in  eyre  by  the  king  appointed 
this  time  for  pleas  of  the  forest  in  that  county,  four,  three  or  two  of 
them,  to  hear  and  perform  the  king's  order  concerning  those  things 
which  pertain  to  such  pleas,  causing  also  to  come  all  foresters  and 
verderers  of  the  said  forest  with  all  attachments  as  well  of  vert  as  of 
venison  arising  after  the  last  pleas  of  the  forest  and  not  yet  determined, 
namely  of  those  dA^^elling  as  well  within  the  bounds  as  without,  the 
regarders  within  his  baihwick  having  all  regards  sealed  with  their 
seals,  and  all  agisters  of  the  forest  A^ith  all  agistments,  having  there 
the  summoners  and  this  writ.  By  K, 


42   EDWARD   III.  477 


1368.  MlCMBRANE   \%d. 

May  23.  John  do  Moryot  kniglit  to  Lawrence  do  Sancto  Martino  knight. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  1,000/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Somerset. 

May  23.  John  son  of  John  de  Meryet  to  Lawrence  de  Sancto  Martino  knight, 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  1,000/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Somerset. 

May  23.         Lawrence  de  Sancto  Martino  knight  to  John  de  Meryet  knight, 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  1,000/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Wiltes. 

Writing  of  Walter,  son  and  heir  of  John  son  of  John  de  Stebenheth 
and  Katherine  his  wife,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  William 
de  Tudenham  citizen  and  mercer  of  London  and  Christina  his  wife,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands,  meadows,  rents  and  services  which 
the  said  William  and  Christina  have  in  the  Eldeford  in  the  parish  of 
Stebenheth ;  and  grant  with  Hke  warranty  to  them  of  all  and  singular 
the  reversions  of  lands,  meadows,  pastures  and  rents  which  ought  to 
revert  to  the  said  John  and  Katherine  father  and  mother  of  the  said 
Walter  and  to  their  heirs  after  the  terms  by  them  granted  to  anj 
persons  whatsoever,  when  they  fall  in.  Witnesses  :  Adam  Fraunceys, 
Adam  Wymondham,  Clement  Spray e  citizens  of  London,  John  de 
Schordich,  Ricliard  Forster,  John  Noble  of  Middlesex.  Dated  London, 
1  May  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  May. 

May  24.         Thomas  de  Cherleton  to  Nicholas  de  Braybrok  and  William  de 

Westminster.  Braybrok.      Recognisance  for   20/.   payable  by  instalments ;    to   be 

levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Middlesex. 

May  25.  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  Robert  de  Baghill  to  Hugh  de  Mitford. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  10/,,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Yorkshire. 

May  25.  The  prior  of  Elsham  to  Richard  de  Ravenser  clerk.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  60s.,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical 
goods  in  Lincolnshire. 

May  26.         Thomas  Dolsely  citizen  of  London  to  Wilham  de  Glendale  citizen 
Westminster,  thereof.      Recognisance  for  100/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  Roger  del  Chaumbre  and 
Agnes  his  wife  late  wife  and  executrix  of  the  said  William,  and  by 
Richard  de  Northbury  his  executor. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon  con- 
dition that  Joan  ^\ife  of  Tliomas  Dolsely  citizen  of  London  shall  not 
recover  against  W^illiam  Glendale  citizen  of  London,  his  heirs  or  assigns, 
dower  of  the  tenements  in  the  parish  of  Allhallows  Bredstret  London 
which  the  said  William  has  purchased  of  the  said  Thomas,  nor  shall 
the  said  William,  his  heirs  nor  assigns,  be  compelled  to  content  her 
of  such  dower.     Dated  London,  27  May  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  William,  27  May. 


478  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1368.  Membrane  16d — cont. 

Writing  of  Nicholas  de  FrendesbjTy  of  Kent,  executor  of  William 
Erne  of  Clyve  the  elder,  being  a  general  release  to  John  de  Bisshopeston 
and  John  de  Massyngham  clerks  and  either  of  them  of  all  actions 
real  and  personal.     Dated  London,  8  June  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  9  June. 

Aug.  24.  To  the  sheriff  of  Berkshire.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Thomas 
Westminster,  de  Wyntershull,  to  stay  the  exigents  against  him  and  the  taking  of 
his  body  by  mainprise  of  Nicholas  Wodelok  and  Jasper  Wodelok  of 
the  county  of  Suthampton,  bringing  this  writ  before  Thomas  de 
Lodelowe  and  his  fellows,  guardians  of  the  peace  and  justices  of  oyer 
and  terminer  in  Berkshire,  on  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable  ; 
as  the  said  petition  shews  that  the  said  Thomas  de  Wyntreshull  is 
without  his  knowledge  put  in  exigents  before  the  said  justices  to  be 
outlawed  for  that  he  came  not  before  them  to  answer  to  the  king  for 
an  alleged  trespass  by  force  of  arms  committed  upon  the  prior  of 
Sandelford  against  the  king's  peace ;  and  the  said  Nicholas  and 
Jasper  appearing  personally  in  chancery  have  mainperned  under 
a  pain  of  1005.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  on  the  aforesaid 
day  to  answer  as  well   to  the  king  as   to   the  prior. 

The  following  persons  have  the  like  writs,  mutatis  mutandis  : 
Aug.   3.  Wiltes.    William  Melborne  clerk,  who  came  not  before  the  justices 

Westminster.  of  the  Bench  to  answer  William  de  Feriby  concerning  a  trespass 

committed  by  him  and   others,  by  mainprise  of  Nicholas   de 
Cherdestoke  and  Thomas  Warde  under  a  pain  of  40/. 

Membrane  15d. 

May  30.  Richard    de    Willisford    of    Welburne    to    William    de    Kelleseye. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  4:01.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  Lincolnshire. 

May  24.  To  the  sheriff    of  Hertford.      Order  to  stay  the  exigents  against 

Westminster.  John  son  of  James  Hanekyn  and  the  taking  of  his  body  by  mainprise 
of  William  Mohaut,  John  Gatyn  and  John  Hatton  of  London,  bringing 
this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
that  Nicholas  Blythewyn  is  impleading  the  said  John  son  of  James 
before  the  said  justices  to  render  his  account  for  the  time  he  was 
bailiff  of  the  said  Nicholas  and  his  receiver  in  Storteford,  and  by 
anotlier  writ  to  render  him  chattels  to  the  value  of  40  marks,  and 
the  said  defendant^  \^ithout  his  knowledge  as  he  avers,  is  put  in 
exigents  to  be  outlawed  in  that  county  for  that  he  came  not  before 
them  to  answer  the  said  Nicholas,  wherefore  he  has  prayed  the  king 
to  stay  the  exigents  until  the  days  when  the  writs  of  exigents  are 
returnable,  as  he  is  ready  to  answer  the  said  Nicholas  and  to  stand 
to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  William,  John  Gatyn  and  John 
Hatton  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  20Z.  to  have  him  before  the 
said  justices  on  the  aforesaid  days. 

June  24.  To  the  mayor  and  constables  last  appointed  in  the  staple  lately 
Westminster,  held  at  Canterbury,  which  by  deliberation  of  the  council  the  king  has 
now  thought  fit  to  remove  to  his  town  of  Quenesburgh  in  the  isle  of 
Shepeye.  Order,  under  pain  of  500/.,  to  cause  all  merchants  of  the 
staple  in  Kent  to  assemble  with  all  speed  at  Quenesburgh,  and  between 
them  and  the  merchants  of  the  staple  to  choose  a  mayor  and  two 


42    EDWARD    III.  470 


13G8.  Membrane  I5d — cont. 

constables  of  the  said  staple  of  the  best  and  discroetest  merchants 
of  the  staple  according  to  the  ordinance,  certifying  in  chancery  before 
St.  Peter's  Chains  next  under  the  common  seal  appointed  for  the 
staple  of  Canterbury  the  names  of  those  elected  and  all  their  action  in 
that  behalf,  and  sending  again  this  writ.  By  K. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order,  under  pain  of  200Z.,  to  cause  all 
merchants  of  the  staple  in  Kent  to  assemble  with  all  speed  at 
Quenesburgh  in  the  isle  of  Shepeye,  and  to  choose  a  mayor  and  two 
constables  of  the  staple,  certifying  their  names  in  chancery  before 
St.  Peter's  Chains  next ;  and  himself  to  be  present  at  the  election  in 
order  to  stir  up  the  said  mercliants  and  move  them  on  the  king's 
behalf  to  do  all  and  singular  the  premises  in  the  form  aforesaid, 
assuring  the  king  in  chancery  under  seal  of  his  action  in  the  matter 
before  the  aforesaid  day,  and  sending  again  this  writ.  By  K. 

To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Sandewic.  Order,  under 
pain  of  2001.,  to  repair  to  the  town  of  Quenesburgh  at  a  set  day  before 
St.  Peter's  Chains  next  to  be  fixed  by  the  mayor  and  constables  last 
appointed  in  the  staple  lately  held  at  Canterbury,  which  by  delibera- 
tion of  the  council  the  king  has  now  thought  fit  to  remove  to  the 
said  town,  and  to  assist  in  the  election  of  a  mayor  and  two  constables 
of  the  staple  of  Quenesburgh,  taking  such  order  among  them  that 
the  said  staple  shall  be  ruled  and  kept  according  to  the  ordinance  ;  as 
the  king  by  writ  has  commanded  the  said  mayor  and  constables  last 
appointed  to  cause  all  merchants  of  the  staple  in  Kent  to  assemble 
at  the  said  town  with  all  speed,  and  of  the  best  and  discreetest  to 
choose  a  mayor  and  constables  according  to  the  ordinance.        By  K. 

To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Sandewic.  Order  to 
suffer  all  wool,  hides  and  woolfells  now  cocketed  and  customed  in 
that  port  to  be  there  laded  and  taken  to  the  king's  staple  of  Calais, 
and  when  that  is  done  to  cause  the  seal  called  '  coket '  in  that  port 
forthwith  to  be  firmly  locked,  so  that  it  be  not  opened,  nor  any  other 
wool,  hides,  woolfells  or  other  merchandise  hereafter  pass  thence 
until  further  order.  By  K. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Samon,  son  sometime  of  Henry  Samon  of 
Shalyngford  co.  Berks,  being  a  quitclaim  \vith  warranty  to  John 
de  Bleobury  clerk,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  lands,  rents,  services, 
wards,  marriages,  reversions  etc.  in  the  town  of  Shalyngford. 
Witnesses  :  Edmund  Chelre,  John  Estbury,  Peter  Coke,  Thomas 
Gylot  of  Farendon,  Walter  Serle.  Dated  Shalyngford,  Monday  the 
feast  of  St.  Bartholomew  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancerj^  at  Sutton 
CO.  Suthampton,  3  July  this  year. 

Membrane  14:d. 

May  21.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.     Order  to  cause  Roger  Lascels  and  Wilham 

Westminster,  de  Nesscfeld,  knights  of  tlie  shire  at  the  parliament  summoned  at 
Westminster  on  1  May  last,  to  have  of  the  commons  of  the  county 
within  hberties  and  without,  cities  and  boroughs  excepted,  131.  45. 
for  their  expenses  in  coming  to  the  said  parliament,  there  abiding,  and 
thence  returning,  namely  4s.  a  day  each  for  33  days. 


480  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


J-<^t)b.  Membrane  14:d — cont. 

The  following  have  the  like  writs  : — 

Northumberland.     Alan  de  Heton  and  Roger  de  Woderyngton 

141.  16s.  for  36  days  [sic). 
Cumberland.     James  de  Pykeryng  and  John  de  Denton  14^.  165. 

for  36  days  (sic). 
Cornwall.     Walter    de    Penherhard    and    Robert    de    Tresulian 

14:1.  165.  for  36  days  {sic). 
Westmorland.     John  de  Preston  11.  for  35  days. 
Lancashire.     Roger   de  Pylkynton    and  Roger  de  Radeclif  the 

elder  141.  for  35  days. 
Devon.     John  Gary  and  William  Cary  141.  for  35  days. 
Staffordshire.     John  Draycote  knight  and  Philip  de  Lutteleye 

HI.  12s.  for  29  days. 
Gloucestershire.     John  Tracy  and  John  Poyns  111.  12s.  for  29  days. 
Herefordshire.     Hugh  de  Monyton  and  John  Oldcastel  111.  12s. 

for  29  days. 
Somerset.     Hugh  Durburgh  and  Walter  Bluet  IIZ.   125.  for  29 

days. 
Lincolnshire.     Thomas  de  Fulnetby  and  William  Busshy  111.  12s. 

for  29  days. 
Worcestershire.     Roger  Corbet   and  Henry  Gruyn    lOZ.  165.  for 

27  days. 
Dorset.     John  de  la  Hale  and  John  Mautravers   101.   16s.  for 

27  days. 
Wiltes.     Henry  Sturmy  and  Thomas  de  la  Ryvere  lOZ.  I65.  for 

27  days. 
Warwickshire.     John   de   Peyto   the   younger   and    Richard   de 

Herthull  101.  16s.  for  27  days. 
Leycestershire.     John  Talbot  and  Simon  Pakeman  101.  16s.  for 

27  days. 
Notinghamshire.     Simon    de    Leek    and    Sampson    de    Strelleye 

101.  16s.  for  27  days. 
Derbyshire.     Robert  de  Twyford  and  John  Toucher   lOZ.   I65. 

for  27  days. 
Roteland.     Wilham  Beaufo  and  Walter  de  Scarle  101.  16s.  for 

27  days. 
NorfTolk.     Thomas  Moreaux  and  Jolm  de  Berneye  101.  16s.  for 

27  days. 
Sussex.     John  Waleys  and  Andrew  Sakevylle  lOZ.  for  25  days. 
Oxfordshire.     Nicholas  Dammory  and  Roger  de  Elinerugge  10?. 

for  25  days. 
Berkshire.     Thomas  de  Besyles  and  John  de  Estbury  lOZ.  for 

25  days. 
Bukinghamshire.     Roger  de  Puttenham  and  John  de  Arderne 

101.  for  25  days. 
Bedfordshire.     John  Ragoun  and  John  Curteys  101.  i&r  25  days. 
Norhamptonshire.      Theobald    Trussel    and    Richard    Wydeville 

101.  for  25  days. 
Suffolk.     Ralph  de  Hemenhale  and  John  de  Rokewode  101.  for 

25  days. 
Cambridgeshire.     Thomas  Shardelowe  and  Hugh  Clyderhowe  101. 

for  25  days. 
Huntingdonshire.     William   Risseby   and   Nicholas   de   Styuecle 

101.  for  25  days. 
Kent.     Thomas  Cauun  and  Thomas  Colepepir  101.  for  25  days. 


42    EDWARD    III. 


481 


1368.  Membrane  lid — cont. 

Surrey.     Simon  do  Codyngton  and  Jolin  do  Kyngosfold  91.  As. 

for  25  days  {sic). 
Essex.     John  de  Bampton  and  John  Olyver  91.  4s.  for  25  days 

{sic). 
Hertfordshire.     Edward   Fitz   Simon   and   Thomas   de    Fytlyng 

9Z.  4s.  for  25  days  {sic). 
Middlesex.     John    Wroth    the    younger   and    Gregory    Fauelore 

SI.  8s. 
The   county   of   Suthampton.     Walter  de   Haywode   and   Peter 

de  Brigge  lOl.  for  25  days. 
[Prynne,  Parliamentary  Writs,  iv.  p.  275.] 

To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Worcester.  Order  to  cause 
John  Goldsmyth  and  Richard  de  Norton  citizens  of  Worcester  to 
have  of  the  commonalty  of  that  city  108s.  for  their  expenses  in  coming 
to  the  said  parliament,  there  abiding  and  thence  returning,  namely 
2s.  a  day  each  for  27  days. 

The  follo\ving  have  the  like  writs  : — 

The  city  of  Cicestre.     John  Goldsmyth  and  Richard  de  Norton 

{sic)*  100s.  for  25  days. 
The  town  of  Bruggewater.     William  Crych  and  Thomas  Engelby 
116s.  for  29  days. 

John  Dadyngton  and  John  de  Benham 


The  town  of  Oxford. 

100s.  for  25  days. 
The  town  of  Bedford. 

100s.  for  25  days. 
The  town  of  Horsham. 

mere  100s.  for  25  days. 


Richard  Frereman  and  Roger  Peyntour 
Walter  Randekyn  and  Oliver  Gyngy- 


May  12  {sic). 
Westminster. 


The  to^\^tt  of  Leomynstre. 
Kedel  116s.  for  29  days. 
[Ibid.  p.  277.] 


William  le  Taverner  and  Richard 


June  9.  John  Maykyn,  for  his  good  service,  is  sent  to  the  prior  and  convent 

Rotherhithe.   of  Bodmynn  in  Cornwall,  to  have  such  maintenance  for  life  in  that 

house  as  Walter  Chauntemerle  deceased  one  of  the  king's  falconers 

had  at  the  king's  request.  By  p.s.  [27609.] 

Membrane  ISd. 

July  15.  To   the  sheriff  of  Dorset.     Order,   upon   the  petition  of  Richard 

Westminster.  Clerc  and  John  Hawe  of  Pudeletrentehide,  to  stay  the  exigents  against 
them  and  the  taking  of  their  bodies  by  mainprise  of  John  Pulter, 
Richard  de  Lavynton  and  John  Gerveyse  of  Winchester,  bringing  this 
writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is 
returnable  ;  as  their  petition  shews  that  John  de  Drayton  is  implead- 
ing them  before  the  said  justices  for  that  they  contrary  to  the  ordinance 
admitted  to  their  service  and  retained  William  Smyth  of  Franc'  lately 
retained  at  Pudele  Hynton  in  the  service  of  the  said  John  de  Drayton, 
who  Mdthout  reasonable  cause  and  licence  of  the  said  John  de  Drayton 
mthdrew  from  his  service  before  the  end  of  the  term  agreed,  and  that 
without  their  knowledge,  as  they  aver,  they  are  put  in  exigents  in  Dorset 
to  be  outlaAved  for  that  the  sheriff  has  returned  before  the  said  justices 


*  An  error.     See  Return  of  Members  of  Parliament,  i.  p.    180. 


E  31 


482 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1368.  Membrane  ISd — cont. 

that  they  were  not  found  in  his  baiHwick,  though  they  are  and  always 
were  ready  to  answer  the  said  Jolin  de  Drayton  in  that  plea,  and  to 
stand  to  right  in  all  things,  praying  for  remedy  ;  and  the  said  John 
Pulter,  Richard  de  Lavyngton  and  John  Gerveyse,  appearing  in 
person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  201.  to  have  the 
said  Richard  Clerc  and  John  Hawe  before  the  said  justices  on  the 
aforesaid  day. 

July  23.  John  Gower  to  Richard  de  Ravensere  clerk.     Recognisance  for  20^., 

Westminster,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  land  and  chattels  in  Suffolk. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

July  13.  Richard  de  Haveryng  knight  to  Queen  Philippa.     Recognisance  for 

Westminster.  100  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Wiltes. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  Richard  de  Raveneser  the  said 
queen's  attorney. 

July  26.  John  West,  for  good  service,  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of 

Guildford.     Wynchecombe,  to  have  such  maintenance  in  that  house  for  life  as 

William  Whithors  deceased  had  at  the  king's  request.  By  K. 

July  26.  William  Gamboun,  for  good  service,  is  pent  to  the  prior  and  convent 

Guildford,     of  Wenlock,  to  have  such  maintenance  in  that  house  for  life  as  William 

Whithors  deceased  had  at  the  king's  request.  By  K. 

July  28.  To  Thomas  de  Roos  of  Hamelak.     Order,  upon  his  allegiance,  to 

Guildford,  array  himself  to  go  to  Ireland  Avith  men  and  arms  to  the  utmost  of 
his  power  so  as  to  be  there  at  Easter,  to  dwell  upon  his  lands  and 
lordships  there  and  upon  the  conquest  thereof,  and  because  the 
business  is  near  the  king's  heart  by  reason  that  the  loss  and  destruction 
of  Ireland  are  more  than  ever  manifest,  to  be  before  the  king  and 
council  at  Westminster  at  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next  in  order 
to  give  information  concerning  the  lands  and  lordships  which  he 
now  has  or  claims  to  have  in  Ireland,  their  true  value  which  they 
were  worth  of  old  time,  and  whether  he  will  go  to  Ireland  or  send 
others  in  his  name  for  the  safety  of  the  same  or  no,  so  that  in  case 
he  will  not  so  do,  in  order  to  avoid  the  hurt,  peril  and  disherison  which 
is  hke  to  happen  to  the  king  and  his  land  of  Ireland  if  speedy  remedy 
be  not  applied,  the  king  may  in  liis  default  take  such  order  concerning 
the  said  lands  and  lordships  as  tlie  law  wills  and  need  requires  in  this 
emergency  for  the  safety  of  Ireland  and  of  the  king's  lieges  there  ; 
as  the  king's  faithful  prelates,  earls,  barons  and  other  men  and  his 
commons  of  Ireland  have  many  times  signified  to  the  king  that,  by 
default  of  those  having  lands  and  lordships  in  Ireland  and  not  there 
abiding  upon  the  defence  thereof,  the  Irish  his  enemies  in  every  part 
of  the  land  ride  in  warlike  fashion,  slaying,  robbing,  burning,  and 
committing  other  mischief,  and  wasting  the  king's  lands  and  the 
lands  of  his  lieges  there  so  that  the  land  is  like  to  be  ruined  if  succour 
and  remedy  be  not  speedily  apphed  ;  and  after  deliberation  had  upon 
the  business  with  the  prelates,  earls,  barons  and  others  of  his  council, 
considering  how  upon  the  first  conquest  of  Ireland  by  his  forefathers 
many  lordships  and  lands  there  were  by  them  given  to  divers  lords 
and  others  of  England  because  the  land  might  by  those  having  such 
rewards  safely  be  defended  and  peaceably  governed  by  means  of  their 
continual  abode  upon  their  said  lordships  and  lands,  and  how  great 


42    EDWARD    III.  483 


l^^o-  Membrane  iZd — cont. 

number  of  lords  and  others  of  England  have  long  taken  the  issues 
and  profits  of  their  lordships  and  lands  in  Ireland  without  making 
defence  or  guard  thereof  as  tliey  are  bound  to  do,  so  that  by  their 
default  the  aforesaid  evils  have  happened  to  the  hurt  and  disherison 
of  the  king  and  his  croAvn,  tlie  destruction  of  his  faithful  people 
there,  and  the  ruin  of  Ireland,  willing  so  far  as  he  may  to  provide  for 
such  defence  as  he  ought  and  is  bound  to  do,  with  the  assent  of  the 
prelates,  nobles  and  others  of  his  council  by  mature  deliberation  had 
the  king  has  ordered  that  all  lords  and  others  of  England  having  or 
claiming  to  have  any  lordsliips  or  lands  in  Ireland  shall  be  in  Ireland  at 
Easter  next  well  and  sufficiently  arrayed  with  arms  and  men  to  dwell 
upon  their  said  lands  and  upon  the  conquest  thereof,  and  in  case  any 
of  tliem  may  not  go  thither  in  person,  that  he  shall  send  others  in 
his  name  there  to  dwell  at  his  cost  for  the  defence,  governance  and 
conquest  of  his  said  lands  and  lordships,  and  in  case  they  will  not 
do  so  the  king  will  take  the  same  into  his  hand  and  give  them  at  his 
pleasure  to  others  who  will  there  dwell  upon  the  defence  and  conquest 
thereof.     French.  By  K.  and  C. 

[FcBdera.'] 

The  like  to  Roger  de  Clifford  and  to  fourteen  others. 

[Ibid.] 

July  30.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order,  on  sight  of  these  presents,  to 

Guildford,  cause  all  and  singular  the  matters  contained  in  the  statute  concerning 
the  import  and  sale  of  merchandise  published  at  Westminster  in  the 
25th  year  of  the  reign  to  be  proclaimed  in  the  said  city  and  the  suburbs 
thereof,  forbidding  any  man  of  whatsoever  condition  under  pain  of 
forfeiture  to  hinder  any  merchants  native  or  alien  from  selling  at 
retail  or  by  parcels  as  they  please  as  well  woollen  goods  as  silk  and 
other  merchandise  whatsoever,  victuals  excepted  which  the  king  has 
granted  to  be  sold  in  gross  until  a  set  time  according  to  the  judgment 
of  his  last  parliament,  causing  any  found  to  do  contrary  to  such 
proclamation  to  be  taken  and  imprisoned  until  further  order  ;  as  in 
the  said  statute  it  is  contained  that  any  merchant  or  other  of  what- 
soever condition,  as  well  alien  as  native,  bringing  cloths,  hides, 
avoirdupois,  or  other  goods  or  merchandise  to  the  city  of  London  or 
to  other  cities,  boroughs  and  towns  or  seaports  of  the  realm  may 
freely  without  let  or  trouble  sell  the  same  in  gross  or  retail  or  by  parcels 
at  his  o^^^l  ^^'ill  to  any  who  will  buy  them,  any  liberties,  grants  or 
customs  or  any  other  things  to  the  contrary  notAvithstanding,  inas- 
much as  such  liberties  and  customs  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king 
and  people  ;  and  now  by  complaint  of  merchants  native  and  alien 
coming  to  London  ^\'ith  cloths  of  wool  and  of  silk  the  king  has  learned 
that  unless  they  will  sell  in  gross  they  may  not  sell  such  cloths  and 
theii'  merchandise  by  parcels  or  at  retail  in  the  said  city  ;  and  the 
king  would  observe  those  statutes  which  are  made  for  the  common 
weal  and  cause  them  be  executed. 

Aug.  24.         The  abbot  of  St.  Augustine's  Bristol,  for  himself  and  the  convent, 
Westminster,  to  John  de  Blebury  clerk.     Recognisance  for  320/.,  to  be  levied,  in 
default  of  payment,   of  their  lands   and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical 
goods  in  Gloucestershire  and  Somerset. 

Memorandum  that  Henry  de  Percehay  took  this  recognisance  by 
wTit  of  dedimus  potestatem,  which  is  on  the  files  of  chancery  for  this 
year. 


484  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1368.  Membrane  \2d. 

Indenture  made  between  the  king  of  the  one  part  and  Walter  de 
Frompton,  Wilham  de  Canynges,  John  de  Stoke  and  Richard  Hanham 
of  the  other  part,  being  a  lease  to  farm  of  the  subsidy  in  Gloucestershire, 
Somerset  and  Dorset  upon  cloth  for  sale  from  Michaelmas  next  for 
three  years,  rendering  L52Z.  a  year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even 
portions,  and  taking  a  third  part  of  forfeited  cloths  etc.  {as  above,  p.  70). 
Dated  Westminster,  28  April,  42  Edward  III.     French. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 
Like  indentures  are  made  with  the  following  : 

Essex  and  Hertfordshire.  Thomas  de  Lakford  of  Bury  from 
Midsummer  last  for  one  year  rendering  20L,  the  whole  of  the 
forfeitures  being  reserved  to  the  king.  Dated  Westminster, 
30  June.  Mainpernors,  Thomas  de  Lakford  of  London  and 
William  Horsecroft.     French.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  county  of  Suthampton.  John  Mottesfont  from  Michaelmas 
last  for  four  years,  rendering  201.  a  year  and  taking  all  forfeitures. 
Dated  Westminster,  20  October.  Mainpernors,  John  Smethe 
and  Thomas  Heroun  of  London.     French. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Wircestreshire.     Henry  Seint  Johan  from  Michaelmas  last  for  six 

years  rendering  535.  4d.  a  year  and  taking  a  moiety  of  the 

forfeitures.     Dated   Westminster,    3   November.     French.     No 

mainpernors,  because  it  is  witnessed  that  he  is  sufficient. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 
Wilteshire.  William  Wyther  of  Dorchestre  from  Michaelmas 
last  for  three  years,  rendering  64tl.  a  year  and  taking  the  third 
part  of  the  forfeitures.  Dated  Westminster,  14  October. 
French.  Memorandum  that  he  found  mainpernors  before  the 
treasurer,  as  appears  by  bill  of  the  treasurer  remaining  in 
chancery  this  year. 
The  city  and  suburbs  of  London  and  Middlesex.  Peter  Sterre 
of  London  from  Michaelmas  last  for  one  year  rendering  100 
marks.  French.  [No  date.]  No  mainpernors,  because  it  was 
witnessed  that  he  is  sufficient.  By  K. 

Membrane  lid. 

Charter  of  John  Talmache  of  the  county  of  Suthampton,  giving  with 
warranty  to  John  Russel  chaplain,  William  Hurst,  Peter  de  Wylton 
and  Nicholas  Mouns  chaplain,  their  heu's  and  assigns,  his  manor  of 
Upsomborne  as  in  homages,  villenages  and  all  that  goes  with  them, 
lands,  woods,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures  etc.  Witnesses  :  Nicholas 
Wodelok,  Hugh  le  Crane,  Walter  Bokeland,  Thomas  Lecford,  Robert 
Forster.  Dated  Upsomborne,  Wednesday  after  the  Translation  of 
St.  Swithun  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Waltham  co. 
Suthampton,  28  August  this  year. 

Writing  of  Nicholas  Mouns  parson  of  Martrewordy,  granting  to  Master 
John  Ware  parson  of  Wonsyngton,  John  Goundeville  parson  of  Chil- 
bolton  and  John  Warner  clerk  and  to  their  heirs  the  reversion  after  the 
death  of  John  Talmache  of  the  manor  of  Upsomborne  lately  granted 
by  the  said  John  Talmache  to  the  said  Nicholas,  Peter  de  Wilton, 
\^illiam  atte  Hurst  and  John  Russel  chaplain  and  to  their  heirs, 
which  manor  they,  having  had  seisin  thereof,  after  demised  to  the 


42   EDWARD    HI.  485 


13G8.  Membrane  lid — cont. 

said  John  Tahnaclie  for  life  witli  reversion  to  thcni  and  their  hoirs, 
and  the  same  ought  to  revert  to  the  said  Nichohis  and  his  heirs,  tlio 
said  Peter,  \\' illiam  and  John  Jiussel  being  now  dead.  Witnesses  : 
John  de  Lisle,  Hugh  Camoys,  Bernard  Broeas,  John  Ticheborne 
knights,  Nicholas  XVodelok,  John  Faukener,  Richard  Scotcney, 
Tliomas  Canteshangre,  Walter  Bocland.  Dated  Somborne,  Tuesday 
before  St.  Martin  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  {as  the  last),  28  August  this  year. 

Writing  of  John  Talmache,  being  an  attornment  to  Master  John 
Ware  parson  of  Wonsyngton,  John  Ooundeville  parson  of  Chilbalton 
and  John  Warner  clerk  concerning  the  reversion  of  the  manor  of 
Upsomborne  which  he  the  said  John  Talmache  holds  for  life  by  demise 
of  Nicholas  Mouns  parson  of  Martrewordy,  Peter  de  Wilton,  Wilham 
atte  Hurst  and  John  Russel  chaplain,  the  reversion  whereof  the  said 
Nicholas  has  after  the  death  of  the  said  Peter,  William  and  John  Russel 
granted  to  the  said  John  Ware,  John  Goundeville  and  John  Warner 
and  to  their  heirs.  Witnesses  :  John  de  Lisle,  Hugh  Camoys,  Bernard 
Broeas,  John  Ticheborne  loiights,  Nicholas  Wodelok,  Jolin  Faukener, 
Richard  Scoteneye,  Thomas  Canteshangrfe,  Walter  Bocland.  Dated 
Somborne,  Thursday  the  feast  of  St.  Martin  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Waltham  {as  above),  28  August 
this  year. 

Writing  of  Master  John  Ware  parson  of  Wonsyngton,  John  Gounde- 
ville parson  of  Chilbolton  and  John  Warner  clerk,  granting  to  William 
Wykham  bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the  reversion  of 
the  manor  of  Upsomborne  now  held  for  life  by  John  Talmache  with 
reversion  to  them  and  their  heirs,  which  manor  the  said  John  Tal- 
mache lately  gave  to  Nicholas  Mouns  parson  of  Martreworthi,  Peter 
Wyltone,  William  atte  Hurst  and  John  Russel  chaplain  and  to 
their  heirs,  and  they  having  had  seisin  thereof  after  demised  to  the 
said  John  Talmache  for  life  with  reversion  to  them  and  their  heirs, 
and  after  the  death  of  the  said  Peter,  William  atte  Hurst  and  John 
Russel  the  said  Nicholas  granted  the  reversion  thereof  after  the  death 
of  the  said  Jolin  Talmache  to  the  said  John  Ware,  John  Gounde- 
ville and  John  Warner,  by  virtue  whereof  the  said  John  Talmache 
has  attorned  tenant  to  them.  Witnesses  :  Jolm  de  Lisle,  Hugh 
Camoys,  Bernard  Broeas,  John  Ticheborne  knights,  Nicholas  Wodelok, 
Peter  Brugges,  Walter  Haywode,  Richard  Pauncefot,  John  Fauconer, 
Richard  Scoteneye,  William  Puttone.  Dated  Upsomborne,  Sunday 
before  St.  Bartholomew  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Waltham  {as  above),  28  August. 

Writing  of  John  Talmache,  being  an  attornment  to  William  Wyk- 
ham bishop  of  Winchester  concerning  the  reversion  of  the  manor  of 
Upsomborne  which  he  tlie  said  John  holds  for  life,  being  of  the  said 
bishop's  lieri'age  by  virtue  of  a  grant  of  the  said  reversion  to  him 
made  by  Master  John  Ware  parson  of  Wonsyngtone,  John  Gounde- 
ville parson  of  Chilboltone  and  John  Warner  clerk,  who  before  that 
time  had  the  same  by  grant  of  Nicholas  Mouns  parson  of  Martreworthi, 
by  virtue  whereof  he  the  said  John  Talmache  attorned  tenant  to  the 
said  John  Ware,  John  Goundeville  and  John  Warner.  Witnesses 
{as  the  last).  Dated  Waltham,  Monday  after  St.  Bartholomew 
42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Waltham  (as  above),  28  August. 


486 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1368.  Membrane  l]d — cont. 

Sept.  8.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  suffer 

Windsor.  Peter  de  Brugge  sheriff  of  Suthampton  to  have  the  respite  of  rendering 
his  account  of  the  issues  of  that  county  until  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary 
next  which  the  king  has  given  him  ;  as  he  is  so  much  occupied  upon 
certain  business  wherewith  the  king  has  specially  charged  him  that 
he  may  not  come  in  person  to  the  exchequer  at  this  instant  morrow 
of  Michaelmas  for  the  purpose.  By  K. 

Walter  de  Haywode  sheriff  of  Wiltes  has  the  like  writ. 

Aug.  2L  To  the  same.  Order  this  time,  of  the  king's  favour,  instead  of  Peter 
Westminster,  de  Brugge  sheriff  of  Suthampton  to  receive  Roger  Colrithe  and  John 
de  Waltham  clerk  the  attorneys  by  him  appointed  in  chancery  to 
make  his  proffer  at  this  instant  morrow  of  Michaelmas,  or  one  of  them  if 
both  may  not  be  there,  not  troubling  the  said  sheriff  by  reason  of  his 
absence  on  that  day ;  as  he  is  so  much  occupied  etc.  [as  above.)       By  K. 

Walter  de  Haywode  sheriff  of  Wiltes  has  the  like  writ,  to  make  his 
proffer  by  John  de  Waltham  clerk  and  Thomas  Cole.  By  K. 

Sept.  10.         John  de  Kyngeston  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Welbek, 

Westminster,  to  have  such  maintenance  in  that  house  as  John  de  Notton  late  yeoman 

of  the  king's  wardrobe  had  at  the  king's  request.  By  K. 

John  Pury  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Augustine's  Canter- 
bury, to  have  such  maintenance  in  that  house  as  John  Milford  had 
in  his  life  time  at  the  king's  request.  By  K. 

Aug.  3L         William  Archebaud  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Circestre, 

Woodstock,    to  have  such  maintenance  in  that  house  as  William  Boys  clerk  had  in 

his  life  time  at  the  king's  command.  By  p.s.  [27635.] 

Charter  of  John  de  Hoyvyle,  son  and  heir  of  William  de  Hoyvyle, 
giving  with  warranty  to  William  de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  his  manor  of  Preston  Candevere  and  all  other  his 
lands,  rents,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures  and  fisheries  in  Candeveres- 
den,  Chilton  Candevere,  Odyliam,  Retherwyk  and  Basyngstoke  or 
in  the  hundreds  of  Bermundesputte,  Basyngstoke  and  Odyham,  and 
the  reversion  of  13s.  4rf.  of  yearly  rent  taken  by  Peter  de  Sutton  for 
his  life  of  the  said  John's  tenements  in  Retherwyk  with  reversion  to 
the  said  John  and  his  heirs,  with  all  liberties,  commodities,  profits, 
lands,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  fisheries,  fish  ponds,  ponds,  mills, 
wards,  marriages,  homages,  reliefs,  escheats,  services  of  free  tenants 
and  neifs,  reversions  etc.  thereto  belonging.  Witnesses  :  Sir  John 
de  Lisle  knight,  Henry  Sturmy,  Peter  de  Bruges,  Walter  Haywode, 
Nicholas  Wodelok,  John  de  Warbleton,  Thomas  Wodelok,  Henry  de 
Popham,  Henry  de  Watesford,  Stephen  Haym.  Dated  High  Clere, 
10  September  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  High  Clere 
CO.  Suthampton,  13  September. 

Sept.  12.         John  de  Hoyvyle,  son  and  heir  of  William  de  Hoyvyle,  to  William 
[High]  Clere.   de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester.     Recognisance  for  500/.,  to  be 
levied,  in  default  of   payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  the  county 
of  Suthampton. 


*l 


42   EDWARD    III.  487 


1308.  Membrane  \0d. 

Charter  of  Ricliard  de  Sybford,  giving  with  warranty  to  Jolin  dc 
Querncby  clerk  and  Edmund  Giftard,  tlieir  lieirs  and  assigns,  all  the 
rent  and  service  in  the  town  of  Henle  upon  Thames  which  fell  to  him 
by  inheritance  after  the  death  of  Peter  dc  Sybford  his  brother,  also 
the  reversion  of  a  messuage  and  appurtenances  in  the  said  town  held 
for  life  by  Agnes  who  was  wife  of  Peter  Persones  by  demise  of  the  said 
Peter  Persones,  and  of  a  messuage  held  for  life  by  John  Grenewyche 
and  Isabel  his  wife  and  John  de  Almesbury  by  demise  of  the  said 
Peter  de  Sybford,  which  messuages,  rents  and  services  were  late  of 
John  de  Stokes.  Witnesses  :  WiUiam  Wakeman,  John  Clobber, 
Thomas  Warner,  John  Aleyn,  John  Wj^ke.  Dated  Henle  aforesaid, 
Sunday  after  St.  Matthew  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Wergrave 
CO.  Berks,  25  September. 

Writing  of  John  atte  Seler  and  Alice  his  wife,  being  a  joint  and 
several  bond  to  William  atte  Seler  and  Joan  his  wife  in  400  marks 
by  reason  of  a  loan,  payable  at  Westminster  at  Christmas  next.  Dated 
London,  6  July  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
3  October  this  year. 

Oct.  5.  Henry  de  Cantebrigge  citizen  and  merchant  of  London  to  Geoffrey 

Westminster.  Puppe    citizen    and    '  stokfisshemongere '    of  London.     Recognisance 
for  48L  15,9.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Indenture  made  between  Nicholas  son  and  heir  of  Sir  William  de  la 
More  of  the  one  part  and  John  Aubrey  of  London,  William  Newerk 
chaplain  and  Ricliard  Toky  of  the  other  part,  cancelling  former  in- 
dentures between  the  parties,  enrolled  in  chancery,  which  contained 
certain  conditions  and  covenants  touching  the  reversion  of  the  manor 
of  Morehall  co.  Essex  and  20  marks  of  rent  thereof  issuing,  surrender- 
ing to  the  said  John,  William  and  Richard  the  part  sealed  by  them, 
with  release  by  the  said  Nicholas  of  all  right  and  action  by  reason 
thereof,  and  avoiding  their  enrolment ;  and  agreement  between  the 
parties  to  new  covenants,  to  wit  that  if  the  said  Nicholas,  now  going 
toward  Gascony,  shall  after  his  passage  come  again  to  England  to  the 
house  of  the  said  John  in  London  before  Michaelmas  next  or  before 
Christmas  following,  and  shall  there  pay  or  make  recompense  to  him 
or  his  executors  for  113Z.  6s.  8rf.,  allowing  to  the  said  Nicholas  in 
his  payment  so  much  of  the  said  rent  or  of  the  profits  of  the  said 
manor,  in  case  the  reversion  fall  in,  as  the  said  John,  William  and 
Richard,  their  heirs  or  assigns,  shall  have  received  clear  of  reprises,  and 
if  the  said  Nicholas  shall  find  security  not  to  alien  the  said  manor, 
rent  or  reversion  to  any  other  but  the  said  John,  so  tliat  he  tlie  said 
John  will  give  as  much  as  any  other  without  fraud  or  covin,  the  said 
John,  William  and  Richard,  their  heirs  or  assigns,  shall  within  one 
quarter  of  a  year  after  such  payment  made  and  such  security  found 
at  his  costs  by  deed  in  the  country  or  by  fine  make  him  an  estate 
of  the  said  rents  and  reversion,  or  of  the  said  manor  if  the  reversion 
shall  fall  in,  to  the  said  Nicholas  and  his  heirs  for  ever  as  fully  as  they 
had  the  premises    by  his  grant ;   in  case  the  said  Nicholas  return  not 


488  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1368.  Membrane  lOd — cont. 

to  England  in  person  at  London  before  Christmas  aforesaid,  but  shall 
in  his  life  time  make  payment  by  another  in  manner  aforesaid,  no 
grant  of  the  reversion  and  no  estate  of  the  said  rents  or  manor  shall  be 
made  him  mitil  his  return  to  London,  but  within  the  quarter  of  a 
year  after  his  return,  on  security  being  found  as  aforesaid,  he  shall 
have  an  estate  thereof  such  as  was  before  rehearsed  ;  in  case  before 
Christmas  aforesaid  the  said  Nicholas  make  not  such  payment  by 
himself  or  another,  an  estate  of  the  said  rent  and  reversion,  or  of  the 
manor  if  it  fall  in,  sliall  by  the  said  William  and  Richard,  their  heirs 
and  assigns,  be  made  to  the  said  John  Aubray  and  Elizabeth  his  wife 
for  their  lives,  rendering  to  the  said  William  and  Richard  and  to  their 
heirs  during  the  hfe  of  Cicely  wife  of  Jolui  de  Mounteny  one  rose  a 
year,  and  after  her  decease  20  marks  a  year  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter 
by  even  portions,  and  the  reversion  of  the  said  manor  with  the  said 
rents  of  one  rose  and  of  20  marks  they  shall  give  to  the  said  Nicholas 
and  the  heirs  of  liis  body  \vith  remainder,  for  lack  of  such  issue,  to 
the  heirs  male  of  the  bodies  of  the  said  John  Aubrey  and  Elizabeth, 
remainder  to  Hugh  son  of  Sir  Hugh  de  Badewe  and  to  his  heirs  for 
ever  ;  and  in  case  the  said  Nicholas  shall  die  before  his  return  to 
London  from  over  sea,  whether  payment  be  made  as  aforesaid  or 
no,  the  said  William  and  Richard,  their  heirs  or  assigns,  shall  make  an 
estate  of  the  said  rent  and  reversion,  or  of  the  said  manor  if  it  shall 
fall  in,  to  the  said  John  and  Elizabeth  and  the  heirs  male  of  their 
bodies  without  rent  reserved,  with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  issue 
to  the  said  Hugh  and  his  heirs  ;  and  if  the  said  John,  Wilham  and 
Richard  shall  on  their  part  keep  all  the  covenants  aforesaid,  a  bond 
of  500  marks  by  the  said  John  made  to  the  said  Nicholas  shall  be 
void.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Hugh  de  Badewe,  Sir  John  de  Sutton  knights, 
Robert  Mareschal,  Roger  Germeyn,  John  Ward,  William  Venour, 
William  Brickies.  Dated  Sunday  after  the  Translation  of  St.  Edward 
the  Confessor  42  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  17  October. 

Oct.  18.         James  Leukenore  to  John  Bereholt  citizen  and  carpenter  of  London 
Westminster,  and  William  Horsecroft  citizen  and  skinner  of  London.     Recognisance 
for  10  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Sussex. 

Oct.  22.         Nicholas  de  Newenham  to  John  Asshelyn  of  Fj^fhide  co.  Essex. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  100^.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Bukinghamshire. 

Oct.  5.  Simon  de  Bokenham,  for  his  good  service,  is  sent  to  the  prior  and 

Westminster,  convent  of  Ely,  to  take  such  maintenance  or  office  in  that  house  for 

life  as  Peter  Fithelere  deceased  had  at  the  king's  request.      By  K. 

Oct.  16.         Isabel  Blaket,  for  her  good  service,  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent 
Westminster,  of  Oseneye,  to  take  such  maintenance  in  that  house  for  life  as  Peter  de 
Oxenford  deceased  had  at  the  king's  request. 

Oct.  23.         Hugh  de  Benteleye  to  Richard  Lewer  of  Doncastre.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  9^.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Yorkshire. 


42  i<:i)vvARi)  11  r. 


489 


1368.  Membrane  lOd — cont. 

Oct.  29.  Tlionias  Ladde  of  Frcnyngham  the  younger  and  Robert  Bakcre  to 

Westminster.  Simon  Burgh.     Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  lOOL,  to  levied  etc. 
in  Kent. 

Writing  of  Simon  atte  Strete,  now  called  Simon  Wynkel  of  Bettlee, 
being  a  release  to  Hugh  de  Hastynges  kniglit,  Thomas  Titeshale,  John 
Mede,  Thomas  Hotchepount,  Thomas  Persones,  Tliomas  Boteler, 
William  Asshele  and  Reynold  Champyon  of  all  personal  actions  by 
reason  of  trespass,  account,  debt  or  other  matter  whatsoever.  Dated 
Westminster,  the  feast  of  All  Saints  42  Edwaid  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  November. 

Membrane  9d. 

Writing  of  Jolm  Wateer,  son  and  hek  of  John  Wateer  of  Acton  co. 
Middlesex,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  de  Burton 
'  chaundeler  '  and  citizen  of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the 
lands,  messuages,  rents,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  curtilages  etc. 
whatsoever  in  Acton  which  the  said  John  Burton  has  by  gift  and 
feoffment  of  him  the  said  John  Wateer.  Witnesses  :  Adam  Haket, 
Thomas  atte  Cros,  Richard  Lakenham,  William  Gherard,  Roger 
Payn,  William  Harecourt,  John  York.  Dated  London,  25  October 
42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  26  October, 


Nov.  1.  Richard  de  Gillyngham  of  Kent  to  John  Organ  citizen  and  mercer 

Westminster,  of  London.     Recognisance  for  80  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Kent, 

Writing  indented  of  William  de  Montagu  earl  of  Salisbury  and  lord 
of  Man,  giving  with  warranty  for  good  service  to  Roland  Rake  his 
water  mills  of  Mertok  called  WalteresmuUe  and  Madymulle  with  the 
weirs,  watercourses,  fishery  and  suits  of  tenants  etc.,  to  hold  for  life 
of  the  said  earl  and  his  heirs  as  fully  as  Sir  Ralph  de  Middelneye  lately 
held  the  same,  rendering  yearly  one  rose  at  Midsummer  for  all  service. 
Witnesses :  Sir  John  de  Mountagu  the  said  earl's  brother.  Sir  Edmund 
Domere,  Sir  John  de  Beauchamp  of  Lullesdou  knights,  Thomas  Waryn, 
Walter  Gupheye,  Walter  de  Widecombe,  John  de  Caunteloo.  Dated 
Caneford  manor,  24  June  38  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  London, 
3  November  this  year. 

Writing  of  Richard  de  Stafford  lord  of  Clifton  Campville,  being 
a  general  release  to  Walter  de  Kelleby  of  Lincoln  of  all  actions  of 
debt  and  account.     Dated  London,  4  November  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Westminster,  4  November. 

Writing  of  John  Newemarche,  being  a  general  release  to  Robert 
de  Muskham  clerk  of  all  actions  real  and  personal,  suits,  plaints  and 
demands  by  reason  of  any  trespass,  debt,  account,  covenant  or 
other  cause  or  contract  whatsoever.  Dated  London,  3  November 
42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  November. 


490 


CALENDAR   OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1368.  Membrane  9d — cont. 

Nov.  6.  John  Robychon  of    Fychyngfeld  to  William  de  Fulburne    clerk. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  301.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  Essex  and  Cambridgeshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Oct.  30.  John  Duke,  for  his  good  service,  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent 

Westminster,  of  Thorneye,  to  take  such  maintenance  in  that  house  for  life  as  Roger 
Watford  deceased  had  at  the  king's  request ;  and  the  said  abbot  shall 
certify  in  chancery  under  the  common  seal  of  his  said  house.  The 
king's  will  is  that,  if  this  command  shall  take  effect,  payment  of  the 
fee  of  100s.  which  the  said  John  yearly  takes  of  the  king  shall  cease,  and 
the  letters  thereupon  made  shall  be  given  up  to  be  cancelled.       By  K. 

Nov.  7.  John  Avenel   to   Edmund  Avenel  knight.     Recognisance  for   500 

Westminster,  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Cambridgeshire. 

Nov.  9.  Amaury  le  Botiller  to  John  de  Boerleye  knight.     Recognisance  for 

Westminster.  20/.  payalile  by  instalments  ;   to  be  levied  etc.  in  Gloucestershire. 

Charter  of  Gosselin  Hosseberne  citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London 
and  Margaret  his  wife,  being  a  gift  with  warranty  to  the  king,  his 
heu's  and  assigns,  of  the  four  shops  and  tenements  with  gardens 
adjoining  upon  the  '  Tourhill '  in  Estsmethefeld  in  the  parish  of  St. 
Botolph  without  Algate  London  which  the  said  Gosselin  and  Margaret 
had  jointly,  situate  between  a  tenement  sometime  of  Peter  atte  Vyne 
and  now  of  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Mary  Graces  on  the  west  and 
the  garden  of  the  said  abbot  and  convent  on  the  east,  which  tenements 
were  sometime  of  William  Box  citizen  of  London.  Witnesses  :  John 
de  Wendovere,  William  Gamen,  Robert  Graylond,  Simon  Taylour, 
John  Grantham,  John  Colyn.  Dated  the  '  Tourhill,'  17  September 
42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  6  November. 

Nov.  11.         John  de  Garton  of   London  to  Robert  Maunsel  citizen  and  mercer 
Westminster,  of  London.     Recognisance  for  100  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  the  said  city. 

Nov.  11,         Henry  de  Torbok  to  Godfrey  Foljaumbe  knight.     Recognisance  for 
Westminster.  400/.  payable  by  instalments  ;    to  be  levied  etc!  in  Lancashire. 

Nov.  13.  Mainprise  of  Master  John  de  Stretele  dean  of  Lincoln,  appearing 
Westminster,  in  person  in  chancery,  that  under  pain  of  his  forfeiture  no  plea  or 
process  shall  be  attempted  in  foreign  parts  to  impair  a  judgment  in 
favour  of  the  king  rendered  in  the  king's  court  concerning  the  church 
of  Littelbury,  that  no  man  by  the  king  presented  to  the  said  church 
nor  any  of  the  king's  subjects  shall  be  troubled,  cited  or  aggrieved  at 
the  court  of  Rome  nor  elsewhere  in  foreign  parts  by  reason  of  the 
said  judgment  or  of  other  process  in  the  king's  court  concerning  the  said 
church,  and  that  if  anything  shall  be  so  attempted  in  the  court  of 
Rome  or  elsewhere  in  foreign  parts  by  any  person  whatsoever,  he  the 
said  dean  shall  at  his  own  costs  cause  the  same  to  be  revoked  and 
annulled,  saving  harmless  those  troubled  or  cited  as  aforesaid. 


42   EDWARD   III. 


491 


1368.  Membrane  Qd — cont. 

Writing  of  Jolin  Lefdale,  being  a  general  release  to  Thomas  de 
Thorneton  tlic  king's  pavilioner  of  all  actions  real  and  personal  by 
reason  of  trespass,  debt,  account  or  otlier  matter  whatsoever.  Dated 
Westminster,  Monday  before  All  Saints  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  November. 

Nov.  17.         John  de  Langton  to  Richard  de  Ravensere  clerk.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  40Z.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Somerset. 

Membrane  8d. 

Charter  of  Agnes  who  was  wife  of  William  Lechebarowe  sometime 
citizen  and  skinner  of  London,  giving  with  warranty  to  John  Dovy 
citizen  and  mercer  of  London  and  to  Katherine  his  wife,  their  heirs 
and  assigns,  all  the  lands,  tenements  etc.  at  the  '  Mileende '  in  the  parish 
of  Stibenhethe  co.  Middlesex  w4iich  fell  to  the  said  Agnes  by  inheri- 
tance after  the  death  of  John  Page  her  nephew,  son  of  Walter  Page 
her  brother  sometime  citizen  and  skinner  of  London.  Witnesses  : 
Sir  Walter  Mewe  knight,  John  Philipot,  John  de  Triple,  William 
Musbroun,  Richard  Sumnour,  William  Potter.  Dated  the  '  Mileende,' 
Thursday  the  feast  of  the  Exaltation  of  Holy  Cross  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  15  November. 

Nov.  16.         Thomas  Henhyrst   to   Thomas  de  Aldoun  knight  and  Simon   de 
Westminster.  Burgh.     Recognisance  for  SOL,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Kent. 


Nov.  16.         Robert  de  Naylynghurst  clerk  to  John  de  Meryet  knight.     Recog- 
Westminster.  nisance  for  40L,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Essex. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Charter  of  John,  son  of  Sir  John  de  Meryet  knight  and  cousin  and 
one  of  the  heirs  of  Sir  John  de  Beauchamp  of  Somerset  knight,  giving 
with  warranty  to  Aubrey  de  Veer  knight,  John  de  Sudbury,  Robert 
de  Naylynghurst  clerk  and  Clement  Spice,  and  to  the  heirs  and  assigns 
of  the  said  Robert,  his  manor  of  Dullyngham  co.  Cantebrigge  called 
Beauchampes,  with  the  services  and  rents  of  all  his  tenants,  free  men 
and  neifs  etc.  Witnesses  :  Thomas  de  Shardelowe  knight,  Thomas 
Sewale,  Richard  his  son,  William  Loft,  Thomas  Nayl3rnghurst.  Dated 
London,  Monday  after  St.  Martin  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  16  November. 

Nov.  22.         Thomas  de  Spaigne  of  Yorkshire  to  Sibyl  w^ho  was  wife  of  John 
Westminster.  Drenge.     Recognisance  for  10  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  pay- 
ment, of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Yorkshire. 

Writing  of  John  Basyng  of  Westmune,  being  a  grant  with  warranty 
to  William  de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  a  rent  of  8  marks  for  15  years,  and  of  40Z.  thereafter  payable  yearly  at 
Michaelmas  to  the  said  John,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  by  William  le  Venour 
citizen  of  London,  by  virtue  of  a  demise  to  him  made  for  50  years  of  all 
the  lands,  rents  and  services  of  free  men  and  neifs  which  are  of  the  said 
John  in  the  town  of  Westmune  and  of  the  reversion  of  the  dower  of 
Isabel  Langrisch  when  it  shall  fall  in,  subject  to  the  said  John's  power 


492  CALENDAR   OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1368.  Membrane.  8d — cont. 

to  distrain  for  arrears  of  the  first  mentioned  rent  and  to  distrain  and 
altogether  thrust  out  the  said  tenant,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  if  the  said 
rent  of  40Z.  be  eight  days  in  arrear,  as  contained  in  a  writing  indented 
dated  Westmune,  Monday  the  feast  of  St.  Kahxtus  38  Edward  III ; 
also  a  grant  of  the  reversion  of  the  premises  after  the  term  aforesaid. 
Dated  Thursday  after  St.  Katherine  42  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of   acknowledgment,   25  November. 

Oct.  8.  The  prior  of  Thurgarton  co.  Notyngham,  for  himself  and  the  convent, 

Westminster,  to  Richard  Davy  warden  of  the  chantry  of  the  altar  of  St.  Nicholas  and 
St.  Katherine  in  the  church  of  Cruche.  Recognisance  for  lOOL,  to  be 
levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  then-  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesi- 
astical goods  in  Notynghamshire  and  Derbyshire. 

Memorandum  that  this  recognisance  was  taken  by  Thomas  de 
Ingelby  by  Avrit  of  dedimus  potestatem,  which  is  on  the  file  among 
such  writs  for  this  year. 

Nov.  28.         John  son  of  Jolm  de  Breouse  knight  {militis)  and  Joan  {Johanna) 
Westminster,  his  wife   to   the  king.     Recognisance  for  1,000Z.,  to  be  levied  etc.  of 
their  lands  and  chattels  in  Lincolnshire. 

Memorandum  that  this  recognisance  is  made  for  security  of  the 
said  Joan  and  of  her  issue  by  the  said  John  the  son  that  he  will  nowise 
alien  lands  of  his  heritage  to  their  disherison. 

Acknowledgment  of  the  abbot  of  Bruera,  made  before  the  king  in 
chancery  in  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  42  Edward  III.  Taking 
notice  that  the  said  abbot  caused  an  erasure  to  be  made  in  a  charter 
of  divers  manors,  lands  and  liberties  in  divers  places  granted  by  king 
Richard  his  forefather  to  the  then  abbot  and  the  monks  of  the  said 
abbey,  altering  one  word,  namely  '  Fiffehida,'  in  the  said  charter 
contained  at  the  making  thereof,  and  inserting  the  word  '  Estleche,' 
and  after  the  alteration  obtained  a  confirmation  of  the  same  by  charter 
of  the  king  with  the  word  Estleche  inserted  therein,  and  thereupon 
sued  for  allowance  of  the  said  liberties  before  the  king  in  his  Bench 
in  a  plea  pending  between  the  said  abbot  and  the  abbot  of  Cirencestre, 
the  Idng  caused  the  said  abbot  to  be  summoned  before  liim  and  the 
council  to  answer  touching  the  premises,  who  appeared  before  the 
council  at  Westminster  in  this  instant  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas,  and 
said  that  without  his  knowledge  Robert  Rag  his  monk  made  that 
erasure  and  eloigned  the  said  charter  ;  and  being  asked  if  he  had 
aught  to  say  wherefore  the  said  charter  so  rased  and  falsified  and 
all  confirmations  thereof  ought  not  to  be  revoked  and  annulled  said  he 
had  not ;  wherefore  order  is  given  to  the  said  abbot  at  his  peril  not 
to  withdraw  from  the  king's  court  Avithout  his  special  command,  or 
until  the  king  has  signified  his  mil  thereupon. 

Text  of  the  above  mentioned  writ  addressed  to  the  abbot  of  Bruera, 
tested  at  Westminster  25  May,  ordering  him  to  have  before  the  council 
at  Westmmster  in  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  a  charter  of  King 
Richard  concerning  liberties  by  him  granted  in  the  first  year  of  his 
reign  to  the  said  abbot's  predecessors,  and  all  other  charters  touching 
the  liberties  of  that  house,  and  confirmations  thereof,  and  further  to 
do  and  receive  what  shall  then  be  determined  by  the  council.  By  K. 

At  which  day  the  abbot  brought  to  the  chancery  the  king's  said 
charter  of  confumation  made  upon  the  charter  of  Kong  Richard  with 


i 


42    EDWARD    III.  493 


1368.  Membrane  M — cont. 

tlie  word  rased,  saying  tliat  lie  has  never  seen  tlic  rased  charter,  but 
brother  Robert  Rag  his  monk  lias  it  with  liim,  if  any  sucli  there  be, 
who  obtained  the  confirmation  and  has  fled  from  liis  liouse,  so  that 
he  tlie  said  abbot  may  not  by  any  means  have  that  charter,  wherefore 
tlie  charter  of  confirmation  is  given  up  and  cancelled. 

Writing  of  Francis  dc  Enefeld,  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Enefeld, 
being  a  quitclaim  \\'ith  warranty  to  John  Wroth  citizen  of  London 
and  Margaret  his  wife,  mother  of  the  said  Francis,  and  to  the  heirs 
of  their  bodies,  of  the  manor  of  Pukeshepyn  co.  Wiltes.  Witnesses  : 
Simon  de  Moredon  then  mayor  of  the  city  of  London,  Adam  Wymond- 
ham  and  Robert  Gyrdeler  sheriffs,  William  Walworth,  Richard  de 
Croydon,  John  Turk,  Giles  Pykeman.  Dated  London,  the  feast  of 
St.  Nicholas  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  6  December. 

Membrane  Id. 

Indenture  made  at  Coveneye  on  Monday  after  St.  Martin  42 
Edward  III,  between  Robert  de  Insula  lord  of  Rougemont  {de  Rubio 
Monte)  of  the  one  part  and  Robert  de  Asshton  knight  and  Henry  de 
Snayth  clerk  of  the  other  part,  being  a  gift  with  warranty  to  the 
said  Robert  de  Asshton  and  Henry,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the 
manors  of  Rampton,  Cotenham  and  Westewyk  co.  Cantebrigge  and 
Pisshoubury  co.  Hertford  with  the  advowson  of  Rampton  church  and 
the  reversion  of  all  lands  in  Rampton  and  Cotenham  now  held  for 
life  by  Alice  Tothale,  rendering  yearly  at  Ely  in  the  cathedral  church 
1601.  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  with  power  to  the 
grantor  to  enter,  seize  again  and  hold  the  premises  if  the  rent  be 
eight  weeks  in  arrear,  and  after  payment  thereof  at  any  term  the 
grantor  or  his  attorney  shall  forthwith  deliver  an  acquittance  for  the 
same  to  the  use  of  those  in  whose  name  such  payment  shall  be  made. 
Witnesses  :  Hugh  de  Stafford  knight,  Thomas  de  Dale  knight,  Thomas 
de  Kyngeston  knight,  John  Bataille,  John  Cheyne,  John  Wroth, 
Roger  de  Harleston. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  29  November. 

Writing  indented  of  Robert  del  Isle  lord  of  Rouge  Mount,  being 
the  defeasance  of  a  recognisance  upon  a  statute  merchant  in 
500  marks  paj^able  at  Easter  next,  made  in  London  to  the  said 
Robert  by  Sii"  Robert  de  Asshton  knight  and  Sir  Henry  de  Snayth 
clerk  to  secure  the  estate  which  the  said  Robert  del  Isle  may 
have  in  the  manors  of  Rampton,  Cotenham  and  Westewyk 
CO.  Cantebrigge  with  the  advowson  of  Rampton  church  and  the 
reversion  of  lands  in  Rampton  and  Cotenham  held  for  life  by 
Alice  Tothale,  namely  to  enter  the  same  again  in  default  of  payment  of  a 
■  yearly  rent  of  160Z.  to  him  reserved  by  a  lease  of  the  premises  and 
of  other  lands  by  him  made  by  writing  indented  to  the  said  Robert 
de  Asshton  and  Henry,  their  heirs  and  assigns  for  ever,  with  covenant 
for  so  entering,  upon  condition  that  in  the  life  time  of  Robert  del 
Isle  the  said  lessees  nor  their  ministers  shall  make  no  waste  in  the 
premises  exceeding  the  value  of  lOl.  other  than  such  as  by  the  law 
of  the  land  they  might  make  if  they  had  only  an  estate  therein  for 
theii"  lives,  that  in  case  they  so  do,  and  shall  be  notoriously  and  openly 
warned  in  manner  following,  to  wit  by  the  said  lessor  sending  his 


494  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1368,  Membrane  Id — cont. 

letters  patent  to  the  priory  of  Ely  in  the  cathedral  church  there  certify- 
ing the  subprior  and  the  sacrist  thereof  concerning  the  manner  of  such 
waste  and  the  place  where  it  is  made,  and  requiring  reasonable  amends, 
the  said  lessees,  their  heirs,  executors  or  assigns  shall  within  one  year 
after  such  warning  recompense  the  said  lessor,  and  that  in  case 
recompense  be  not  then  made,  the  said  lessees,  their  heirs  or  assigns, 
shall  wdthin  two  months  more  recompense  him  to  twice  the  value  of 
such  waste.  Dated  London,  28  November  42  Edward  III.  French. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  29  November. 

Writing  indented  of  Robert  del  Isle  lord  of  Rouge  Mount,  being  the 
defeasance  of  a  recognisance  upon  a  statute  merchant  in  1,000  marks 
payable  at  Easter  next,  made  in  London  to  the  said  Robert  by  Sir 
Robert  de  Asshton  knight  and  Sir  Henry  de  Snayth  clerk  to  secure 
the  estate  which  the  said  Robert  del  Isle  may  have  in  the  manor  of 
Pishoubury  by  entering  the  same  again  in  default  of  payment  of  a 
yearly  rent  of  160/.  to  him  reserved  by  a  lease  of  the  premises  and  of 
other  lands  by  him  made  by  writing  indented  to  the  said  Robert  de 
Asshton  and  Henry,  their  heirs  and  assigns  for  ever,  with  covenant 
for  so  entering  upon  condition  etc.  {as  in  the  foregoing  indenture). 
Dated  {as  the  last).     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  29  November. 

■    '  Membrane  M, 

Charter  of  Robert  de  Insula,  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Insula  knight, 
being  a  gift  and  surrender  to  the  king  and  to  his  heirs  for  ever  of  a 
court  of  divers  his  tenants  and  fees  in  divers  counties  of  England 
which  the  said  Robert  has  in  Walbroke  in  the  city  of  London,  to  be 
holden  in  a  tenement  there  of  the  master  and  brethren  of  St.  Thomas 
of  Aeon,  and  the  right  of  his  easement  of  there  holding  the  same, 
another  court  of  divers  his  tenants  and  fees  to  be  holden  in  Arkesden 
CO.  Essex  in  a  certain  piece  of  land  there,  another  court  of  divers 
his  tenants  and  fees  to  be  holden  in  Farnyngho  co.  Norhampton  every 
three  weeks,  and  86  knights'  fees  in  divers  counties  of  England,  the 
said  piece  of  ground  and  all  other  fees  etc.  contained  in  a  roll  to  this 
charter  attached  and  delivered  to  the  king  by  the  said  Robert  at  the 
time  of  this  surrender,  A^dth  the  homages  and  services  of  the  tenants 
of  the  said  fees,  their  suits  of  court,  the  rents  which  they  were  bound 
to  pay  him,  and  all  rights,  liberties,  views  of  frankpledge,  wards, 
reliefs,  escheats,  marriages  etc.  to  the  premises  belonging,  upon  con- 
dition that  he  the  said  Robert  or  his  heirs  be  not  by  any  words  in 
this  charter  contained  bound  to  warranty  of  the  premises.  Witnesses  : 
W.  bishop  of  Winchester  the  chancellor,  J.  bishop  of  Ely  the  treasurer, 
Henry  lord  Percy  {Henrico  domino  Percy),  William  lord  de  Latymer, 
Henry  Scrope  and  others  of  the  council.  Dated  Westminster, 
24  November  42  Edward  III. 

Fees  of  Sir  Robert  del  Isle  held  of  him  by  knight  service  in  divers 
counties  of  England  ;  and  be  it  known  that  of  all  his  tenants  herein- 
after named  the  said  Sir  Robert  sliall  have  suit  at  the  two  courts  of 
his  honour,  to  -ndt  at  Walbroke  and  at  Arkesden  every  three  weeks. 

Kent.  John  de  Haudlo  sometime  held  half  a  knight's  fee  in 
Fannes  by  Why,  now  in  the  king's  hand. 


42   EDWARD  III.  495 


1308.  Membrane  M — cont. 

John  Stoil  holds  tlie  fourth  part  of  one  kniglit's  fee  in  Botton 

by  Sutton  \^alonci8,  sometime  of  John  Somery. 
Lawience  Shelve  half  a  knight's  fee  in  Shelve  by  Lenham,  some- 
time of  John  Shelve. 
John  de  Hastynges  sometime  held  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's 

fee  in  the  town  of  Leyburn  of  the  heritage  of  Leyburn,  now 

in  the  king's  hand. 
The  said  John  sometime  held  the  seventh  part  of  one  fee  of  the 

tenements  which  were  of  Ralph  Ruff}^!,   now  in  the  king's 

hand. 
The  said  John  sometime  held  half  a  knight's  fee  in  Langeleye  and 

Buggeleye  by  Maidestan,  now  in  the  king's  hand. 
The  said  John  sometime  held  half  a  fee  in  Bressing'  in  service, 

now  held  by  the  king. 
The  said  John  one  fee  in  Cherleton  by  Sutton  Valence,  now  held 

by  the  king. 
The  said  John  held  half  a  fee  in  Shrambroke  by  Clyve,  now  held 

by  the  king. 
The  countess  of  Huntyngdon  formerly  held  the  tenements  which 

were  of  Philip  de  Leybourne  by  the  services  of  7|  fees,  now 

kept  in  the  king's  hand. 
John  Pecche  holds  the  tenements  in   Otham  by  Maydestan  and 

Lullyngton  which  were  of  Walter  de  Rokesleye  by  two  fees. 
John  Baude  knight  the  tenements  in   Eclis  by  Ailleford  which 

were  of  Richard  Rokesleye  by  half  a  fee. 
John  de  Cobham  knight  the  tenements  in  Cowlyng  by  Roucestre 

which  were  of  Henry  de  Cobham  by  one  fee  and  a  half,  with 

the  tenements  in  the  same  town  which  were  of  Nicholas  Grys. 
The  said  John  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Bekkles  by 

Hengham  upon  Tamese  of  the  heritage  of  John  de  Wolton  and 

John  de  Somery. 
Thomas   de   Cobham    the    tenements    in   Hengham    by   Tamese 

which  were  of  Stephen  de  Cobham  by  half  a  fee. 
Henry  de  Scrope  knight  the  tenements  in  Paulynes  Creye  which 

were  of  William  de  Crey  by  two  fees. 
The  heirs  of  Sir  John  de  Huntyngfeld  three  fees  in  Westwycham 

by  Croydon. 
John  de  Upton  sometime  held  the  tenements  in  Eltham  which 

were  of  John  de  Henlee  by  the  fourth  part  of    one  knight's 

fee,  now  in  the  king's  hand. 
Total  in  Kent  14  fees  (sic)  and  the  seventh  part  of  a  fee. 
Sussex.     The  abbot  of  Pount  Robert  holds  the  tenements  of  the 

fee  of  Thomas  de  Verdon  which  were  of  Cicely  de  Averenge  by 

two  fees. 
Total  two  fees. 
Cambridgeshire.     Baldmn  de  Bereford  knight  holds  the  manor  of 

Clopton  by  one  fee. 
Hugh  de  Clyderowe  knight  the  manor  which  was  of  Ralph  de 

Wyndesore  in  Wynpoie  by  one  fee. 
Total  two  fees. 
Essex.     John  de  Stokesby  and  wife  hold  two  fees  in  Theydon, 

Bonehunt,    Willedon    and   elsewhere   which    were    of   W^illiam 

Gernoun. 
The  heirs  of  David  de  Flettewyk  certain  tenements  in  Herlawe 

by  the  fourth  part  of  one  fee. 


496  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1368  Membrane  6d — cont. 

John  Bataille  certain  tenements  in  Manudon  which  were  of  John 

Sausemer  by  half  a  fee. 
Robert  Baiouse  one  fee  in  Arkesden. 
Tlie  abbot  of  Walden  half  a  fee  in  Arkesden. 
William  de  la  Zouche  certain  tenements  in  the  same  town  which 

were  of  Hamond  Peverel  by  the  fourth  part  of  one  fee. 
The  prioress  of  Chaumpeseye  the  fourth  part  of  one  fee  in  the 

said  town, 
Thomas  Twe  certain  tenements  in   Great  Chishill  which  were  of 

John  del  Isle  by  one  fee. 
Hugh  de  Badewe  one  fee  in  Great  Badewe  of  the  fee  of  Berners. 
Lawrence  Breton  certain  tenements  in  Leire  by  Colecestre  which 

were  of  William  [de]  Lapton  Breton  {sic)  by  half  a  fee. 
The  prior  of  St.  Botolph's  Colcestre  certain  tenements  in  Pakeles- 

ham  called  '  le  Gardyn  '  which  were  of  William  del  Haya  by 

half  a  fee. 
The  said  prior  the  third  part  of  one  fee  in  Dykelee  which  was  of 

the  said  William. 
Janjm  de  Wauton  the  fourth  part  of  one  fee  in  Stevyngton  in 

Berklawe. 
Andrew  Bures  the  fourth  part  of  one  fee  in  '  Litle  Radewynter.' 
Jolin   Bataille   tenements  in  Malmedon  which  were  of  Robert 

Revel  by  the  fourth  part  of  one  fee. 
Total  in  Essex  Sh  fees  and  the  third  part  of  one  fee. 
Hertfordshire.     The   lord    of   Mauny   holds   certain   tenements   in 

Knebbeworth  which  were  of  Richard  de  Perers  by  one  fee. 
The  abbot  of  St.  Edmund  one  fee  in  Tydenham  by  Sabrichesworth. 
Total  li  fee  {sic). 
Oxfordshire  and  Berkshire.     William  de  Craunford  holds  certain 

tenements  in  South  Newenton  which  were  of  Robert  Craunford 

by  half  a  fee. 
Richard  de  Adderbury  holds  in  demesne  of  John  de  Hastyng  in  i 

Stapelaston,  and  the  said  John  holds  the  same  tenements  in  '  * 

service  of  Robert  del  Isle  by  one  fee. 
The  abbot  of  Oseneye  certain  tenements  in  Little  Tiewe  of  John  | 

de  Hastyng,  and  he  of  R.  del  Isle  by  one  fee.  * 

The  heirs  of  Eva  de  Gray  one  fee  in  Deneford. 
The  same  heirs  certain  tenements  in  Stanlake  by  one  fee. 
La\^Tence  de  Broke  half  a  fee  there. 
The  abbot  of  Oseneye    certain  tenements  in  Burton  by  Hoge 

Norton  of  the  heirs  of  Eva  de  Gray,  and  they  of  R.  del  Isle 

in  service  by  half  a  fee. 
Warin  del  Isle  knight  in  Frettewell,  Oke,  Aldebury  and  Wilhale 

by  three  fees. 
La\iTence  Broke  half  a  fee  there. 
Ralph  Loveday  certain  tenements  in  Miuigewell  by  Walyngford 

by  one  fee. 
William  Flour  certain  tenements  in  Podlicote  by  one  fee. 
John  de  Appelby  certain  tenements  in  Chadelyngton  by  one  fee.  * 

Jolmi  Golafre  one  fee  in  Cerchedene.  "^ 

Gerard  del  Isle  one  fee  in  Kyngeston  in  the  vale  of  '  Whithors.'  -3 

The  said  Gerard  certain  tenements  in  Spereshold  of  Sir  Robert 

del  Isle,  and  he  of  the  abbot  of  Abyndon  in  service  by  one  fee. 
The  archbishop  of  York  one  fee  in  Rutherfeld. 
Margery  de  les  Rivers  one  fee  in  Niewenham. 


42    EDWARD    III.  497 


18()8.  Membrane  Gd — cont. 

John  de  Spencers  two  fees  in  WylhuU  and  Aldebury  by  Ikforde- 

brigge. 
Total  in  Oxfordshire  19  fees. 
Wiltshire.     The  heirs  of  Andrew  de  Blount  hold  one  knight's  fee 

in  Caleston. 
The  heirs  of  Matthew  de  Columbers  half  a  fee  in  Litheton  of 

the  earl  marshal  in  demesne,  and  he  of  Sir  R.  del  Isle  in  service. 
Thomas  Golafre  one  fee  in  Blounteston. 
Master  Richaid  de  AVyke  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in 

Berton. 
Total  2f  fees. 
Norfolk.     William  de  Hedereseyt  holds  certain  tenements  in  Inte- 

wode,  Gouketliorp  and  Roudham  by  two  fees. 
Henry  Rothyng  half  a  fee  in  Brcthenham. 
Adam  Chaungeour  of  London  half  a  fee  of   Sir  Robert  in  Bruns- 

thorp. 
Sir  Warin  del  Isle  one  fee  of  Sir  R.  del  Isle  in  Mondeford. 
Total  four  fees. 

Membrane  5d. 

Divers  counties.  Sir  John  de  Verdon  holds  certain  tenements  in 
Holt,  C-leye,  Sniterle,  Thorleye,  Leringsete,  Hemsted  and 
Hayfeld  co.  Norffolch  with  others  named  below. 

He  holds  [tenements]  in  Brikelesworth,  Orlyngher  (sic),  Hollecott', 
Craneford  and  Sublipston  co.  Norhampton  with  others. 

And  [tenements]  in  Sutton  by  Steft'ord  [sic)  co.  Sussex  by  services 
of  the  monks  of  Fount  Robert  he  holds  with  the  above  tene- 
ments of  Sir  R.  del  Isle  by  the  services  of  12^  fees. 

Total  12i  fees. 
Suffolk.     The  earl  of  Herfford  holds  tenements  in  Elmesett,  Somers- 
ham  and  Ringeshell  by  three  fees. 

The  heirs  of  Richard  Rokel  tenements  in  Ringesselle  by  half  a 
fee. 

Lawrence  Breton  the  sixth  part  of  one  fee  in  Herkestede. 

The  prince  of  Wales  tenements  in  Leyham  and  Tudenham  by 
3|-  fees. 

John  Gernoun  knight  one  fee  in  Somerton. 

Thomas  de  Clare  and  Thomas  de  Stanton  in  right  of  their  wives 
half  a  fee  in  Little  Fakenham. 

Gilbert  de  Debenham  tenements  in  Brende  Wemham  late  of 
Robert  le  Vaus  by  half  a  fee. 

Total  9|  fees  and  the  sixth  part  of  one  fee. 
Bedfordshire.     David  de  Fletwyk  half  a  fee  in  Hossebourne  Craule 
and  Fletwyk. 

Like\nse  he  renders  lOs.  a  year  at  the  Nativity  of  Our  Lady. 

The  prior  of  Donstaple  half  a  fee  in  Flettewyk  in  frank  almoin. 

Alexander  de  Stoppesle  holds  tenements  in  Clopham  late  of 
Simon  Bayouse  of  Sir  R.  by  half  a  fee,  and  he  holds  the  same 
in  service  of  the  honour  of  Walingf[ord]. 

John  de  Seint  Martyn  two  thirds  of  a  fee  in  Lavendene  Tyngrie 
{sic). 

Simon  de  Ravenston  three  quarters  of  a  fee  in  Weston 

The  abbot  of  Raumesseye  the  fourth  part  of  one  fee  in  Shitlington. 

Total  2h  fees,  two  thirds  of  a  fee  and  lOs. 

E  32 


498  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1368.  Membrane  5d — cont. 

Norhamptonshire.     William     Barry     holds    tenements     in     Great 

Billing  by  one  knight's  fee. 
Thomas  Golofre  one  fee  in  Batulfeld  and  Atteneston. 
Thomas  de  Felton  half  a  fee  in  Botindon. 
John  de  Bokerville  a  messuage  in  Botingdon  rendering  |rf.  a  year 

at  Christmas. 
The  tenents  of  Faryngho  hold  one  fee  in  common,  and  there  is  a 

court  there  to  be  holden  every  three  weeks. 
Total  3J  fees  and  ^d.  rent. 
Comitatus    Insule.      John    Mautravers    holds    one    knight's    fee    in 

Somerford. 
Hugh  de  Seint  Martyn  holds  Kokhill  of  Matthew  de  Columbers, 

and  he  of  the  earl  del  Isle  [del  count  del  Isle),  half  a  fee. 
John  de  Columbers  half  a  fee  in  Foxefeld  of  Matthew  de  Colum- 
bers, and  he  of  the  earl  marshal,  and  he  of  the  earl  del  Isle 

{del  count  del  Isle). 
William  XA^aryn  half  a  fee  in  Fyvede  of   Isabel  de  Mortmeer,  and 

she  of  the  earl  del  Isle  {del  count  del  Isle). 
William  Neville  one  fee  in  Tlieleworth  of  the  earl  of  Salisbury, 

and  lie  of  Henry  Basset,  and  he  of  Matthew  de  Columbers, 

and  he  of  the  earl  del  Isle  {del  count  del  Isle). 
Adam  de  Pyryton  one  fee  in  the  same  to\\Ti  of  Matthew  de  Colum- 
bers, and  he  of  the  earl  del  Isle  {del  count  del  Isle). 
Matthew  de  Columbers  one  fee  in  Bykenolle  of  the  earl  marshal, 

and  he  of  the  earl  del  Isle  {del  count  del  Isle). 
Robert  Corncull'  {sic)  half  a  fee  in  Haydon  of  the  earl  marshal,  and 

he  of  Matthew  de  Columbers,  and  he  of  the  earl  del  Isle  {del 

count  del  Isle). 
Richard  Pipard  one  fee  and  a  half  in  Clive  Pipard  of  Matthew 

de  Columbers,  and  he  of  tlie  earl  marshal,  and  he  of  the  earl 

del  Isle  {del  count  del  Isle). 
Total  seven  fees  {sic). 
Sum  total  of  tlie  fees  of  Sir  Robert  del  Isle  in  all  England  as  well 
in  demesne  as  in  service,  86  fees  {sic).     French. 

Memorandxim  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and  roll, 
25  November. 

Writing  of  Robert  del  Isle,  son  and  heir  of  John  del  Isle  knight, 
being  a  letter  of  attorney  to  John  de  Henxteworth  to  give  the  king 
seisin  of  a  piece  of  land  in  Arkesden  co.  Essex  and  all  other  things 
comprised  in  a  charter  made  with  a  roll  thereto  attached  and  delivered 
to  the  king.  Dated  Westminster,  24  November  42  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  25  November. 

Writing  of  Robert  del  Isle,  son  and  heir  of  John  del  Isle  knight, 
addressed  to  the  tenants  of  certain  kniglits'  fees  in  tlie  counties  of 
Kent,  Sussex,  Cantebrigge,  Essex,  Hertford,  Oxford,  Berkshire, 
Wiltes,  Norffolk,  Suffolk,  Bedeford  and  Norhampton  comprised  in  a  roll 
delivered  to  the  king,  directing  them  to  be  intendant  to  the  king, 
to  whom  and  to  his  heirs  the  said  Robert  has  given  the  said  fees  by 
a  charter  whereto  the  said  roll  is  attached,  as  aforetime  they  were  to 
the  said  Robert  and  his  ancestors.  Dated  Westminster,  24  November 
42  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  25  November. 


42    EDWARD   III.  499 


13C9.  Membrane  5d — cont. 

Memorandnm  that  on  Friday  19  January  this  year  in  Westminster 
hall,  in  the  presence  of  Ricliard  de  Ravcnser,  Walter  Power  and  other 
clerks  of  chancery,  David  de  Wollore  keeper  of  the  rolls  of  chancery 
delivered  to  Amaury  de  Shirlond  one  of  the  barons  of  the  exchequer 
and  Robert  de  Derby  the  treasurer's  clerk  in  the  receipt  of  the  ex- 
chequer to  be  put  in  safe  custody  in  the  treasury  the  foregoing  charter 
and  roll  attached  together  and  sealed  \v\i\\  the  seal  of  Robert  de 
Insula,  and  likc\^'iso  a  letter  patent  of  the  said  Robert  concerning 
livery  of  seisin  to  the  king  of  a  piece  of  land  in  Arkesden  and  all  other 
things  in  the  said  charter  and  roll  contained,  another  letter  of  intend- 
encc  of  the  said  Robert  addressed  to  the  tenants  of  the  aforesaid  fees, 
and  divers  other  rolls  not  sealed  by  him  delivered  in  chancery  whereby 
the  courts  of  the  said  fees  ought  to  be  held. 

[1808.]  Membrane  M. 

Declaration  and  order,  after  deliberation  and  advice  touching  the 

matters    and    circumstances    hereinafter    rehearsed,    for    the    causes 

herein  mentioned  and  other  reasonable  causes  and  especially  for  the 
salvation,  recovery  and  defence  of  the  king's  lordship  of  Ireland,  by 
advice  and  express  consent  of  the  peers,  prelates,  dukes,  earls,  barons, 
nobles,  great  and  wise  men  of  his  council  now  assembled  for  the 
purpose,  of  his  particular  knoA\'ledge  and  kingly  authority  accepting 
the  advice  of  parliament,  and  seeing  so  great  need  that  otherwise 
the  said  land  and  his  lordship  \^'ould  be  ruined  and  destroyed,  that 
all  those  of  England,  whether  prelates,  dukes,  earls,  barons  or  others 
of  whatsoever  degree,  wlio  have  or  claim  to  have  any  lordships,  lands, 
possessions  or  hereditaments  ^^'hatsoever  in  Ireland  shall  go  thither 
and  there  continually  abide  upon  the  same  in  person  with  their 
company,  men  at  ai-ms  and  others  according  to  the  quantity  of  such 
hereditaments,  and  if  for  unavoidable  need  or  other  reasonable  cause 
to  be  by  the  king  and  council  approved  they  may  not  go  in  person 
and  there  abide,  they  shall  sencl  every  one  men  at  arms  or  others 
sufficient  and  well  furnished  at  their  cost  there  to  dwell  for  the  defence, 
governance  and  conquest  of  the  same,  so  that  this  shall  be  done  before 
Easter  next,  and  if  not  they  shall  be  deprived  of  their  lands,  lordships 
and  hereditaments  aforesaid,  and  the  same  shall  be  added  to  the  king's 
demesne  to  be  disposed  of  at  his  free  will,  and  as  shall  seem  good 
for  the  salvation,  defence  and  maintenance  of  his  said  lordship,  any 
claim  in  time  to  come  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding  ;  as  by  the 
complaint  of  his  lieges,  prelates,  earls,  barons  and  other  the  lords 
and  commons  of  the  king's  land  and  lordship  of  Ireland  it  is  signified 
to  him  and  to  his  great  council  how  that  the  Irish  and  others  his 
enemies  ride  in  fashion  of  war  in  every  part  of  Ireland  slaying,  robbing, 
burning,  pillaging,  spoiling  and  destroying  monasteries,  churches,  castles, 
towns  and  fortresses  without  regard  to  God  or  Holy  Church,  to  the 
shame  and  disherison  of  the  king  and  of  his  liege  subjects,  so  that  if 
remedy  and  succour  be  not  speedily  applied  the  land  was  like  to  be 
ruined  ;  wherefore  thinking  he  might  be  better  advised  by  his  lieges 
of  Ireland  who  have  suffered  and  are  suffering  this  hurt  and  dwell 
continually  thereupon,  by  his  special  command  under  the  great  seal 
passed  by  advice  of  his  great  council  a  general  parliament  was  by 
sufficient  warning  and  summons  assembled  in  his  said  lordship  of  the 
prelates,  earls,  barons  and  other  lords,  wise  men  and  commons,  his 
lieges,  to  advise  and  counsel  the  king  touching  the  said  matter  which 


5tX)  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


[1368. J  Membrane  id — cont. 

so  deeply  affects  him  and  his  crowTi,  which  matter  being  debated  at 
length  in  the  said  parliament  holden  at  the  city  of  Dyvelyn  on  Monday 
before  the  Invention  of  Holy  Cross  last,  it  seemed  to  them  that  the 
said  mischiefs  might  no\nse  be  redressed  and  amended  nor  the  said 
land  be  succoured  but  by  the  coming  and  continual  abiding  of  the 
earls,  nobles  and  others  of  England  having  lands  in  Ireland  in  person 
or  by  forcible  and  sufficient  men  weW  arrayed  for  why  to  recover  their 
lost  lordships,  lands,  possessions  and  hereditaments  in  Ireland,  to 
oppose  the  said  mischiefs,  to  save  the  estate  of  the  king  and  the  rights 
of  his  crown,  and  to  succour  their  said  lands,  and  that  they  might 
and  ought  to  be  compelled  so  to  do  speedily  within  a  short  time, 
seeing  that  upon  the  first  conquest  of  Ireland  made  by  former  kings 
of  England  great  number  of  nobilities  {noblees),  lands,  and  possessions 
in  Ireland  Avere  given  to  nobles  and  others  of  England  to  the  end 
they  should  thereupon  continually  dwell  in  person  with  their  com- 
pany, and  defend  and  maintain  the  said  conquest  against  all  rebels 
in  time  to  come,  and  that  since  that  time  the  said  lieges  of  England 
have  for  the  most  part  dwelt  in  England  and  elsewhere,  taking  and 
levying  the  fruits  and  revenues  of  such  hereditaments  without 
defending  the  same,  whereby  the  said  mischiefs  Jiave  arisen  without 
opposition,  \\'hic]i  advice  was  by  the  said  prelates  and  others  of  the 
said  parliament  fully  signified  under  seal  to  the  king  and  his  council ; 
and  after  the  king  was  assured  anew  by  his  lieges  of  Ireland  that  the 
mischiefs  aforesaid  were  renewed,  multiplied  and  grievously  increased, 
insomucli  that  his  lordsliip  of  Ireland  was  for  the  most  part  ruined  and 
destroyed,  as  by  their  letters  they  gave  liim  to  know,  requesting  aid 
and  succour  as  by  their  said  parliament  was  agreed  and  required. 
French.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Feeder  a.] 

1368. 

Nov.  26.  To  the  prior  and  convent  of  Merton.  Request  to  grant  Robert  de 
Westminster.  Sibthorp  the  king's  clerk  such  a  pension  to  be  taken  every  year  of 
tliat  house  as  may  befit  the  givers  and  should  bind  the  I'eceiver  to  tiiem, 
making  him  letters  patent  thereupon  under  the  chapter  seal,  and 
writing  again  by  the  bearer  what  they  will  do  at  this  request  :  as  by 
reason  of  his  new  creation  tlie  said  prior  is  bound  in  such  a  pension 
to  one  of  the  king's  clerks,  to  be  by  the  king  nominated,  until  he  shall 
make  provision  for  him  of  a  benefice,  and  the  king  has  nominated  the 
said  Robert,  whose  advancement  he  has  at  heart.  By  p.s.  [27700.] 


1369. 


Writing  of  Thomas  de  Hanamstede  and  Felicia  who  was  wife  of 
John  Pentrye,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  their  cousin, 
son  and  heir  of  Joan  Aubrej',  his  heirs  and  assigns,  as  well  of  the  lands 
in  the  to\ATi  of  Westhamme  lately  recovered  by  the  said  Thomas  and 
Felicia  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  at  Westminster  against 
William  de  Newerk  chaplain,  Richard  Toky  and  Nicholas  Laurence 
as  of  all  other  lands,  rents  and  services  sometime  of  Thomas  le  Bret 
uncle  of  the  said  Thomas  and  Felicia  in  the  toAATis  of  Westhamme, 
Esthamme,  Stratford  and  Berkyng  co.  Essex.  Witnesses  :  John 
Not,  John  Warde,  Robert  de  Hatfeld,  William  Brickies,  Nicholas 
Chaucer.  Dated  London,  Wednesday  after  St.  Barnabas  42 
Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  January. 


42    EDWARD    III.  501 


1869.  Membrane  id — cont. 

Charter  of  Robert  son  of  AVilliam  de  Somervylle  of  Melton,  giving 
Avith  \Aarranty  to  Tlioiuas  son  of  Richard  Roskyn  of  Melton  Moubray, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  U\o  messuages  and  3i  acres  of  arable  land  in 
Melton,  A\tirre()f  one  messuage  is  situate  in  the  '  Spytelgate '  between 
a  tenement  of  Williaui  Cade  and  a  tenement  lield  by  Maud  who  was 
wife  of  John  Bovyle,  the  other  between  the  said  Maud's  tenement  and 
a  messuage  sometime  of  \>'al(er  Peyle,  also  the  reversion  of  the  said 
tenement  w  liieh  the  said  Maud  holds  in  name  of  dower.  Witnesses  : 
John  Orgei',  ^^'illiam  del  Hull,  Ralph  Peyle,  Roger  de  Waltham, 
John  de  Kirkeby  of  Melton.  Dated  Melton,  Wednesday  after  St. 
Matthew   42   bAlward  111. 

Memorandum  of  aeknowledgment,  23  January. 

Writing  of  Robert  son  of  William  de  Somervylle  of  Melton,  being 
a  general  release  to  Thomas  son  of  Richard  Roskyn  of  Melton  Moubray 
of  all  actions  real  and  personal  by  reason  of  right,  title,  debt,  account 
etc.     Dated  20  January  42   Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  23  January. 

Membrane  3d. 

Writing  of  John  de  Blankmouster  knight,  giving  to  Sir  Roger  de 
Bello  Campo  knight,  liis  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  2001.  to 
be  taken  UK)/,  of  the  said  John's  manors  of  AVyhale  and  Esdyk  co. 
York,  of  all  his  tenements  and  rents  in  the  city  and  suburb  of  York, 
and  of  his  manor  of  Edlyngton  in  the  said  county,  and  KJO^.  of  the  whole 
isle  of  Sully,  the  manors  of  Biename,  Stratton,  Seynt  Mariewyk, 
Swaycote  and  Trenkruc  co.  Cornwall  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by 
even  portions,  with  pow  er  to  distrain  for  arrears  ;  and  the  said  John 
has  put  the  said  Roger  in  seisin  thereof  this  day  by  payment  of  4(M. 
Dated  W^estminster,  Friday  before  the  Conversion  of  St.  Paul  42 
Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  London, 
20  January. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Roger  de  Beauchamp  knight  and  Sir 
John  de  Blankmouster  knight,  being  the  defeasance  of  a  yearly  rent 
of  200/.  by  the  said  Sir  Jolm  granted  to  the  said  Sir  Roger,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  by  deed  enrolled  in  chancery,  upon  condition  that  Sir 
John  shall  make  a  feoffment  to  certain  persons  of  all  the  manors, 
tenements  and  rents  in  the  said  deed  comprised  whereof  the  said  rent 
was  issuing,  to  again  enfeoff  within  two  years  the  said  Sir  John  and 
Margaret  daughter  of  the  said  Sir  Roger,  when  she  shall  be  his  wife, 
and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  witli  remainder  for  lack  of  such  issue 
to  the  right  lieirs  of  Sir  John,  or  that  the  said  Margaret  shall  die 
within  the  term  aforesaid  so  that  no  such  feoffment  may  be  made. 
Dated  \^"estminster,  Saturday  before  the  Conversion  of  St.  Paul 
42  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  at  London, 
20  January. 

Writing  of  Robert  Tibbetot  lord  of  Langar,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  John  de  Wittelbury,  Robert  Aukes  parson  of  Edmerthorp, 
William  Hemmyng  parson  of  Castelcombe  and  William  Purlee  of 
Wymondham,  their  heirs  and  assigns  and  the  assigns  of  their  assigns, 


r 


502  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1369.  Membrane  3d — cont. 

of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Eperston  co.  Notyngham  and  all  lands, 
rents,  services,  reversions  etc.  of  him  the  said  Robert  Tibbetot  in 
that  town.     Dated  London,  22  January  42  Edward  III.     French. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Westminster,  23  January. 

Writing  of  Peter  Cusaunee  knight,  granting  to  Simon  de  Candevere 
all  his  goods  and  chattels  moveable  and  immovable  in  his  manors  of 
Lacham,  Helmerton,  Dounameneye  and  Silchestre  and  elsewhere. 
Dated  Westminster,  22  January  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  23  January. 

Indenture  made  between  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Mary  York 
of  the  one  part  and  John  Clervaux  of  Croft  and  Thomas  de  Sancto 
Quintino  of  the  other  part,  being  the  defeasance  of  a  recognisance 
made  in  chancery,  whereby  the  said  John  and  Thomas  are  bound 
to  the  said  abbot  and  convent  in  200  marks,  so  long  as  the  said  abbot 
and  convent  shall  hold  and  peaceably  enjoy  all  the  tithes  of  corn  of 
the  town  of  Stapulton  according  to  certain  indentures  made  between 
them  and  Sir  Richard  de  Beverle  rector  of  Croft,  without  let  of  the 
said  Richard  or  of  any  in  liis  name.  Dated  as  regards  the  abbot  and 
convent  in  their  chapter  house,  as  regards  the  said  John  and  Thomas 
at  York,  2  Sei>tember  1365. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  abbot  and  convent 
within  their  abbey,  16  January  this  year,  before  Thomas  de  Ingelby 
by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus  potestalem,  which  is  on  the 
tiles  of  chancery  for  this  year. 

Membrane   2d. 

Charter  of  John  le  NeA\'eman  of  Farnham,  giving  with  Avarranty 
to  ^Villiam  de  \Vykeham  bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
all  lands,  woods,  rents  and  services  in  the  parish  of  Farnham  in  the 
tithing  of  Batshete  and  hundred  of  Farnham  -s^hich  he  the  said  John 
had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Robert  de  Snodenham,  and  3  acres  of 
land  in  Farnham  in  the  fields  of  Langenham  in  the  same  tithing  which 
he  had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  William  son  of  William  de  Blok- 
leye  ;  and  bond  to  pa}^  20Z.  to  the  said  bishop,  his  hens  and  assigns, 
in  Farnham  castle  at  the  IMichaelmas  following,  if  he  or  they  be 
impleaded  or  impeached  concerning  the  premises  so  as  to  lose  the 
same  by  reason  of  such  plea.  Witnesses  :  William  Nudegate,  Robert 
Loxle,  John  Henand,  Wilham  Bele,  AA'alter  de  Walyngford.  Dated 
Farnham,  5  January  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandwn  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Farnham 
CO.  Surrey,  6  January. 

Charter  of  John  Bydon  of  Tongham,  giving  with  warranty  to  W^illiam 
de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  four  fields 
of  land  {campos  terre)  in  Farnham  with  all  other  lands,  rents,  woods, 
pastures,  feedings,  meadows,  services  etc.  whatsoever  which  he  the 
said  John  lately  had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  John  de  Sutton  of 
London.  Witnesses  :  William  Nudegate,  Robert  Loxle,  John  Henand, 
Walter  Walyngford,  John  Neweman.  Dated  Farnham,  4  January 
42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Farnham, 
7  January. 


42    EDWARD    III.  503 


1369.  Membrane  "Id — cont. 

W^riting  of  John  Samon  of  Shalyngford  co.  Berks,  being  a  quit- 
claim with  warranty  to  John  do  Hleobury  clerk  of  the  same,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  of  all  lands,  rents,  services,  wards,  marriages,  reversions, 
etc.  in  the  town  of  Slialyngford.  Witnesses  :  l<Alniund  Chelre,  .Jolin 
Kstbury,  Peter  Coke,  Thomas  Temse,  ^\'altel•  Serle.  l^ated  Shalyng- 
ford,  Monday  the  feast  of  St.  Lawrence  40  lOdward  111. 

Memorandum   of   acknowledgment   in   the   chancery   at   Farnham, 

7  January  this  year. 

Charter  of  Thomas  Tylcre  of  Farnham,  giving  with  warranty  to 
William  de  W^ykeham  bishop  of  W^inchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
one  field  of  land  in  Farnham  in  the  titliing  of  Batshete  (;alled  Holcroft 
containing  1 1  acres  of  land,  w  ith  h(xlges,  ditches  et('.  Witnesses  : 
\V'illiam  Nudegate,  John  Bedon,  John  Henand,  William  le  Bele,  Robert 
Loxlee,  John  Ncweman.     Dated  Farnham,  7  January  42  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Tylcre  of  Farnham,  being  a  (juitclaim  to  William 
de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester  of  a  croft  of  land  in  the  tithing 
of  Batshate  by  Farnham  called  Longerude  lying  between  the  high 
road  from  Farnham  to  Redyng  and  a  wood  of  the  bishop  called  la 
Rude,  one  head  abutting  upon  a  wood  of  the  bishop  called  Otryngwode 
the  other  upon  a  road  leading  from  the  high  road  aforesaid  to  the 
said  wood  called  la  Rude,  which  croft  Walter  Bartelot  and  Maud 
his  wife  lately  held  for  their  lives  with  reversion  to  the  said  Thomas 
and  his  heirs.  A\'itnesses  :  AMlliam  Nudegate,  Robert  Loxle,  John 
Henand,    William    Bele,    Walter   de    Walyngford.     Dated   Farnham, 

8  January  42  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Tylere  of  Farnham,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
AAarranty  to  William  de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  of  M.  of  rent  arising  from  a  croft  of  land  at  Hemyweye 
in  the  parish  of  Farnham  called  '  le  Cleyakere,'  and  of  the  said  croft 
which  Avas  late  of  Walter  Bertelot  and  Maud  his  wife.  Witnesses  : 
William  Nudegate,  Jolm  Bydon,  John  Henand,  William  le  Bele, 
Robert  Loxlee,  John  Neweman.  Dated  Farnham,  7  January 
42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknoAvledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writings  in  the  chancery  at  Farnham,  8  January. 

^Vriting  of  William  Puryford,  granting  with  AAarranty  to  William 
de  Wykeham  bishop  of  WiBchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the  reversion 
after  the  death  of  Isabel  de  Sutton  of  a  croft  of  arable  land  called 
SomerA'ecroft,  lying  on  the  east  side  of  the  high  road  from  Farnham 
castle  to  a  wood  called  OterATigwode,  late  of  John  de  Sutton  and 
now  held  for  life  by  the  said  Isabel  by  demise  of  the  said  William 
Purj^ford  with  reversion  to  him,  w  Inch  croft  the  said  William  Puryford 
lately  had  to  him  and  his  heirs  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  John  de  Foxlee 
knight  and  William  Dimmogh  clerk,  and  the  said  Isabel  has  granted 
her  estate  therein  to  Richard  Hert  and  Jolm  le  SAVon  of  Farnham 
it  is  said.  Witnesses  :  William  Nudegate,  John  Henand,  John  Bydon, 
Robert  Loxlee,  Walter  de  ^Yalyngford.  Dated  Farnham,  7  Januar}' 
42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknoAvledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Farnham, 
8  January. 


504  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1B69.  Membrane  2d — cont. 

Charter  of  Walter  Bartelot  and  Maud  his  wiie,  giving  with  warranty 
during  their  hves  to  William  de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  croft  of  land  in  the  tithing  of  Batshate  by 
Farnham  called  Longerude  (as  above  described).  Witnesses  :  William 
Nudegate,  Robert  Loxle,  John  Henand,  William  Bele,  Walter  de 
Walyngford.     Dated  Farnham,  7  January  42  Edward    III. 

Charter  of  Walter  Bartelot  and  Maud  his  wife,  giving  with  warranty 
to  William  de  \A'ykeham  bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
a  croft  of  land  at  Hemeweye  in  the  parish  of  Farnham  called  '  Cleya- 
kere '  as  enclosed  with  metes  and  bounds.  Witnesses  :  William 
Nudegate,  John  Bydon,  John  Henand,  William  le  Bele,  Robert 
Loxle,  John  Neweman.     Dated  Farnham,  7  January  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charters  in  the 
chancery  at  Farnham,  8  January. 

{Membrane  1  belongs  to  the  roll  of  the  iUh  year,  and  has  now  been 
transferred  thereto.] 


I 


N 


I 


(  505  ) 


GENERAL    INDEX 


( r.07 ) 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


A 

Abadatn,  John,  45. 
Abberbiu'y,  Abbii'bury,  de,  Dabber- 
bury,  John,  77,  270. 

,   ]lirlmrd.    165. 

,   ....,  kni^lit,  1S2,  271. 

Cf.  Adderbniy. 

Abbot,    Joiui,    tailor,     of     London, 

mi. 

,  NicJiolas,  468. 

,  William,  of  Kelsey,  73,  405. 

Abbots  I.angley,  Abboteslangeleye. 
See  Langley. 

Abbots  Ripton,  Rippeton,  co.  Hunt- 
ingdon, 361. 

parson,  rector  of.  See  Ditton, 

John  de. 

Aberdeen,  Aberden,  Scotland,  440. 

Aberden,  William  called  Jonesson 
son  of  James  de,  441. 

Abergavenny,  Bergevenj-  [co.  Mon- 
mouth], lady  of.  Sec  Hast- 
ings, Agnes  de,  countess  of 
Pembroke. 

Abergwili,  Aberguilly  [co.  Carmar- 
then], collegiate  church  of 
125. 

Abingdon.  Abb\'don,  co.  Berks,  280. 

,  abbot  of,  496. 

Abington,  Abynton  [co.  Cambridge], 
69. 

,  deed  dated  at,  69. 

,  Abj-ndon  [co.  Northamp- 
ton], manor  of.  431. 

Abyndon.    See  Abingdon,  Abington. 

Abynton.    See  Abington. 

Acastre,  Robert  de,  farmer  of  sub- 
sidy, 281. 

Achard,  Cicelv  wife  of  Peter.  352. 

,  Peter,  352. 

,  Thomas,  352,  353,  359,  360. 


Acklingtoii,  Aklyngton  [parish  of 
\\'ark\vorthJ,  co.  Northum- 
berland, 140. 

Aclom,  Roljcrt  de,  of  Scarborough, 
400,  403. 

Acriso,  Akrise,  co.  Kent,  manor  of, 
65. 

Acton,  CO.  Middlesex,  489. 

,  Aketon  [co.  Sui'folk],  deeds 

dated  at,  186. 

Sec  Iron  Acton. 

Acton,  Jolin  de,  knight,  62. 

,  Maud,  wife  of  Richard  de, 

234,  332. 

,  Richard  de,  332. 

,   yeoman  of  the  king' s 

kitclien,  213. 

,  William  de,  224. 

,    .  .  .  . ,   collector   of   customs 

at  Newcastle-upon-Tj'ne,  146. 

,     .  .  .  . ,    mayor    of,    and    es- 

cheator    in    Newcastle-upon- 
Tyne,  350. 

,  . .  . . ,  of  Newcastle-upon- 
Tyne,  400. 

Adam,  Geoffrey,  citizen  of  London, 
208. 

,   John   son  of,   the  younger, 

285. 

,  Robert  son  of,  286. 

,  Roger  son  of,  de  Brankes- 

ton,  195. 

,  Walter  son  of,  de  Holtale, 

195. 

Adderbury,  co.  Oxford,  229. 

Adderbiu"y,  Richard  de,  496. 

,  .  .  . .,  justice,  185. 

, ,  knight,  249. 

Cf.  Abberbury. 

Addingham  [co.  Cumberland],  Glas- 
sonby  in,   36. 

,Maughanby,Merghanbyin,36. 

Addmgrove,   A.dyngrave,   co.   Buck- 
ingham, manor  of,  229,  230. 
Addirlegh.    See  Alderley. 

Adel.  CO.  York,  131. 
admiral,    the    king's.        See    Herle, 
Robert  de. 

Adstone,  Atteneston,  co.  North- 
ampton, fee  in,  498. 


508 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Adyngrave.    See  Addingrove. 

Aesholte.    See  Alice  Holt. 

Agace,  Hugh,  6. 

Aghaviller,  Aguerill,  co.  Kilkenny, 
425. 

Aghmacart,  Athmekart  [Queen's 
County],  Ireland,   425. 

Aghton.    See  Aighton. 

Aglionby,  Agillonby  [joarish  of  War- 
wick], CO.  Cumberland,  38. 

Aglyonb^s  Adam  de,  403. 

Agmundesham.     See  Amersham. 

Aguerill.    See  Aghaviller. 

Aighton,  Aghton  [co.  Lancaster].  296. 

Aignel,  Aygnel,  Aynell,  Jolm,  44. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  tenant  in  chief,  101. 

,  Katherine  wife  of  John,  101. 

,  William  son  of  John,  164. 

Ailleford.    See  Aylesford. 

Aillesbury.    See  i\ylesbury. 

Ailwyne,  Geoffrey,  coroner  of  co. 
Gloucester,  221. 

Aisshe.    See  Asshe. 

Akenside,  co.  Northumberland,  wood 
of,   439. 

Aketon.   See  Acton. 

Aklyngton.    See  Acklington. 

Akrise.    See  Acrise. 

Akum,  Adam  de,  parson  of  Ash-next- 
Ridley,  160. 

Alan,  Robert  son  of  Robert  son  of, 
285. 

,  Sibyl  daughter  of  Christiana 

daughter  of  William  son  of, 
de  Bolteston,  240. 

,  William  son  of,  de  Boltes- 
ton, 240. 

See  Fitz  Alan. 

Alast,  John,  of  Fulbeck,  coroner  for 
Lincolnshii'e,    129. 

Alayn,  William,  180. 

Cf.  Aleyn. 

Alaynby,  John  do,  403. 

Alaynson,  Geoffrey,  of  Boothby,  28. 

,   Hugh   son   of   Geoffrey,    of 

Boothby,   28. 

Alban.    See  Albon. 

Albemarle  [Aumale,  dep.  Seine 
Inferieure],  earl  of.  See 
Fortibus,  William  de. 

,  earldom  of,   chamberlain  of 

exchequer  of.  See  Brantyng- 
ham,  Ralph  de. 

,  fees  of,  20. 

,  honour  of,  20,  101,  320. 

Albeneye.     See  Albini. 

Alberd,  Richard,  coroner  for  co. 
Huntingdon,  347. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Huntingdon,   169. 


Albini,  Albeneye,  Hugh  de,  earl  of 

Arundel,  446. 
,  Williain  de,  butler  of  Henry 

I,  451. 

Cf.  Daubeneye. 

Albon,   Alban,   Richard,   burgess   of 

Dtmstable,   302. 

,  Thomas,  178. 

Albrighton,  co.  Salop,  manor  of,  21. 
Albury,     Aldebury,     Aldebury     by 

Ikfordebrigge.      co.     Oxford, 

fees  in,  496,  497. 
,  Aldebury   in  Merstham,  co. 

Surrey,  178. 
Alby,  WiUiam,  277. 
Alliyn,  Robert,  48. 
Alcester,  Alyncestre  [co.  Warwick], 

71. 
Aldborough,  co.  York,  Ringborough, 

Ryngburglmeuton   in,    101. 
Aldbourn,  co.  Wilts,  manor  of,  112. 
Aldeburgh,  William  de,  250. 

C/.    Aldebury. 

Aldebury.    See  Albury. 
Aldebury,  Robert  de,  86,  394. 
,  Walter  de,  auditor  of  account 

of  lands  of  tlic  king's  sons,  14. 

, ,  clerk,  203,  306. 

Cf.  Aldeburgli. 

Alderley,     Addirlegh     [co.      Salop], 

manor  of,  40. 
Alderney,  Aurneye,  island  of,  keeper 

of.    See  Cheyne,  Edmund. 
Alderton,    Aldryngton,    co.    North- 
ants,  manor  of,  41,  297. 
,  CO.  Suffolk,  parson  of.     See 

Pishale,  John  de. 
Alderton,  John,  391. 
Aldeworth.     See  Aldworth. 
Aldham,  John  de,  271. 
Aldington,    Aklyngton    [co.    Kent], 

bailiff    of.        See    Fravinceys, 

John. 
,  Aldynton  [in  Thornham,  co. 

Kent],  nmnor  of,   185. 
Aldoun.    See  Pei'rj^  Court. 
Aldoun,     de,     Daldoun,     Elizabeth 

wife  of  Thomas,  198,  199. 
,  Mavid  wife  of  Thomas,  the 

elder,  300,  301. 

,  Thomas,  258. 

, ,  knight,  161,  178,  179, 

193,  196,  198,  199,  491. 
,    ,    ,   of  Kent,    300, 

301,  305,  306. 
,   ,  the  elder,  300, 

301. 
Aldrington,  Aldryngton,  co.  Sussex, 

472. 
,  advowson  of,  472. 


^ 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


509 


Aldryngton.    Sec  Alderton,  Aldring- 

ton. 
Aldryno;ton.  Eli/.nhetli  wife  of  Henry 

do,  of  lierksliire,  249. 

Henry  de.  of  ]Vrksliir(\  249. 

Aldworth,  Aldcnvortli,  co.  liciks,  4U. 
[parish      of     Mitford],      co. 

NorliHinihorland,  147. 
Aldyngton,  Aldynton.     iSee  Alding- 
ton. 
Aldynton,  Richard  de,  185. 
ale,  amends  of,  l.'}3,  i:U. 

,  convent,  38o. 

ale   wardens,  302,  303. 

Aleyn,  John,  487. 

,  Michael  brotlior  of  Richard, 

209. 

,  Richard,  209. 

,  Stephen,  24. 

Cf.  Alavn. 

Alfrede,  Alfryd,"  Jolin,  391. 

,    .  .  .  .,  Thomas  his  servant, 

391. 

,  William,  190.  358,  377. 

Alfton.   See  Alpheton. 

Algarve,  Algarljo  [FV)rtns;al],  wine  of, 

158. 
Algor,  Henry,  200. 
Aliee  Holt,  Aesholte  forest,  Altisholt 

wood  within  Woolmer  forest, 

CO.  ?Iants.,  repair  of,  430. 
,    verdercrs   of.      See   Husee, 

Nicholas  ;  Westcote,  Thomas. 
alien  merchants,  132,  334,  420,  483. 

,  encouragement  of,  316. 

priories.  94,  153,  154. 

,  subsidy  imposed  on,  2. 

aliens,  arrest  of,  443. 

of   power   of   France,    417, 

418. 
,  permission  to,  to  take  wool 

to  Calais,  104. 
,  regulations  for  lading  ships 

of,  322. 

,  trading  capacities  of,  104. 

Allington,       Allyngton,       Alyngton 

[parish  of  South  Stoneham], 

CO.  Hants,  44,  51. 
Allirdale,  Thomas  de,  286. 
Allyngton.     See  Allington. 
Almain,  Almayn,  knight  of,  441,  444. 
,  merchants  of,  363,  364,  441, 

444. 
Almesbury,  Jolm  de.  487. 
alnage,  70,  203,  281,  349,  380,  427. 
Alneham,    See  Alnham. 
Alnewyk.   See  Alnwick. 
Alnewyk,  John  de,  195. 
Alnham,  Alneham,  co.  Northumber- 
land, manor  of,  438. 


Alnwick,  Alnewyk,  co.  Northumber- 
land,   lord    of.       See    Percy, 

Henry  de. 

manor  of,  438. 

ward  of  castle  of,  438. 

Alpheton,   Alfton,   co.    Suffolk,   222, 

264. 
Alstonby,  Astenby  [co.  C'uinberland], 

403. 
Alta  Hipa,  Robert  de,  chaplain,  295. 
Alton,  Alveton,  co.  Stafford,  manor 

of,   147. 
Aluetono,  John  de,  166. 
Alvcley,  co.  Salop,  Romsley,  Rem- 

mesleye  in,  338. 
Alvethele.   See  Aveley. 
Alveton.   See  Alton. 
Alvythele.    See  Aveley. 
Alwaldeley.    See  Alwoodley. 
Alwinton,     Alwynton,     co.     North- 

mnberland,  439,   440. 

,  Farnham,  Tliirnham  in,  147. 

Alwoodley,    Alwaldeley    [})arish    of 

Harewood],  co.  York,   17. 
Alwynton.    See  Alwinton. 
Alyncestre.    See  Alcpster. 
Alyngton.    See  Allington. 
Alysaundre,    William,     coroner    for 

Norfolk,  346. 
Amannat,    Nicholas,    merchant     of 

Florence,   215. 
Ambresbury.    See  Amesbury. 
Amliresdon,   Ricliard,   chaplain,    86. 
Aincotes,     John     de,      coroner     for 

CO.  Lincoln,  428. 
amends  of  bi'ead  and  ale,  133,    134. 
An^ersham,      Agmundesham       [co. 

Buckingham],  280. 
Amesbviry,   Ambresbury,   co.   Wilts, 

manor  of,   1 12. 
Amiens  [dep.  Somme],  burgesses  of, 

179. 

,  merchants  of,  257. 

Amorj%  John,  274. 

Cf.  Damory 

Amoundeville,  Richard  de,  184. 
Ampney.  See  Down  Ampney. 
Ampthill,  Hampthull,   co.   Bedford, 

271. 

,  deed  dated  at,  271. 

ancient     demesne.       See    Law    and 

administration. 
Andover,  Andevre,  co.  Hants,  manor 

of,  453. 
Andre,  Alfonso,  430. 
Andreu,  Jannes,  161. 
,     .  .  .  . ,    mayor    of,    and    es- 

cheator  in  London,  358,  450. 
Andrewe,  John,  131,  132,  195. 
A.nescot!   See  Ascote. 


510 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Angers  [France,  dep.  Maine-et- 
Loire],  abbot  and  convent  of 
St.  Nicholas  abbey  near,  365. 

Angos,  earl  of.     See  Umframville. 

Angre,  Hangre,  Richard,  44,  50,  51. 

Cf.  Aunger,  Aungre. 

Ankerwiek,  Ankerswyke,  Ankerwyke 
[co.  Buckingham],  prioress 
of,  396. 

Anketell,  Tliomas,  162. 

Anlak,  Jolm,  seaman,  115. 

Anteoche.    See  Auntioche. 

Anton,  Bernard,  of  Florence,  mer- 
chant, 455. 

Apley,  Appeleye  [co.  Salop],  81,  83. 

Apoldrefeld.    See  Apuldrefeld. 

apostacy,  379. 

Appelby.    See  Appleby. 

Appeleye.    See  Apley. 

Apperleye,  Nicholas  de,  176. 

Appleby,  Appelby,  Ap^Julby,  John 
de,  230,  490. 

,  Margaret  (de  Haudlo)  wife 

of  John  de,  230. 

,  Robert  de,  tlie  king's  sei'jeant 

at  arms,  159,  277,  278,  394. 

,  Thomas  de,  bisliop  of  Car- 
lisle, 152. 

Ai^pledore,  Apuldre,  co.  Kent,  176, 
368,  370. 

Api^ulby.    See  Appleby. 

Appulderfeld.     See  Apuldrefeld. 

Apuldre.    See  Appledore. 

Apuldrefeld,  Apoldrefeld,  Appulder- 
feld, de,  Dajiuldrefold,  Henry, 
52. 

,  Thomas,  knight,  52,  05,  60. 

,  William,  65,  00,  178,  198. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shii'e  of 

Kent,  108. 

Aquila.    See  Laigle. 

Aquitaine,  117. 

,  prince  of.    See  Edward. 

,  the  king's  lordship  of,  458. 

Archebavid,  William,  486. 

archery,  proclamation  concerning, 
181—182. 

Arches,  Gilbert  de,  parson  of  Dray- 
ton Beauchamp,  174. 

Cf.  Darches. 

Ardele.    See  Ardley. 

Arden.    See  Arderne. 

Arden  Hall,  Ardernhalle  in  Horndon 
[in  Horndon-on-the-Hill,  co. 
Essex],   197. 

Arderne,  Arden,  Beatrice  de,  of 
Great  Driffield,  376. 

,  Giles  de,  473. 

,  Hughde,  370. 

, ,  clerk,  384. 


Arderne — cont. 

,  Joan  wife  of  John  de,  271. 

,  John  de,  405. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Buckingham,   273,   480. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  of  Lancashire,  271. 

,  Thomas  de,  knight,  239. 

,  .  .  .  . , identity  of,  374. 

Ardernhalle.   See  Arden  Hall. 
Ardley,  Ardele,  co.  Oxford,  3. 
Ardsallagh  [co.  Meath],  Ireland,  423. 

,  manor  of,  232,  293. 

Ardwiclj,    Ardwyk    [in    Manchester, 

CO.   Lancaster],   474. 
Areshome,  William  de,  286. 
Arkesden,  co.  Essex,  498. 

,  court  at,  494. 

,  fees  in,  496. 

,  manor  of,  100. 

Arksey,  Arkeshay  [co.  York],  parson 

of.  See  Sand  ale,  John  de. 
Armagh,     Armach,     Ireland,    arch- 
bishop   of.       See    Sweetman, 

Miles. 
Amies,  Richard  des,  190. 
Armesle     wood     in     Maidford,     co. 

Northampton,  470. 
Armestrange,  Adam,   3. 
,   Jolm  son   of   John  son    of 

Adam,  4. 
armour,  for  defence  of  ship,  407. 

prohibition  of  export  of,  370. 

See  aventails,  breastplates. 

Arnald,  Peter,  de  Mandyez,  citizen 

of  Bayonne,  407,  408. 

,  Richard,  350. 

Arncliffe,  Arneclyff  [co.   York],   ad- 

vowson  of,  438. 
Arondell.     See  Arundel, 
arrows,  heads  of  steel  for,  414. 

,  rent  of,  282. 

Arundel,    Arondell,    Arundell,    earl 

of.       See    Albini,    Hugh    de  ; 

Fitz  Alan,   Richard. 
Arundell,      Darrundell,     Darundell, 

Edmund,  knight,  267. 

,  Eleanor  wife  of  John,  155. 

,     Joan      [or     Juliana]      (de 

Luscote)wifeof  John,  352,353. 

,  John,  155,  352,  353. 

Ascot,  CO.  Berks,  335. 

Ascote,     Aneseot,     Auenescote     [in 

Pattishall],  co.  Northampton, 

307,  4.34. 
Asedale.    See  Aj'sdale. 
Ash-near-Sandwich,        Etche        [co. 

Kent],  446. 

,Goshall,Gozehalein,446. 

-next-Ridley,        Asshe,        co. 

Kent,  100. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


511 


Ash -next -Ridley — cont 

,  parson  of.    See  Akum, 

Adam  do. 
Ashauipstoad,      Asshampsted,      co. 

Berks,  40. 
Ashbury,      co.      Berks,      Odstone, 

Ordeston  in,  402. 
Ashby,  Askeby,  co.  Lincoln,  43-t. 
,     Castle,     Castoll     Assheljy, 

Castell    do    Asschby    David, 

CO.     Northampton,     lord     of. 

See  Pole,  William  de  la. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  343. 

,      Cold,      Coldassheby,      co. 

Northampton,  434. 
Ashdon,  co.  Essex,  Stevington  in,49G. 
Ashdovvn,     Asshedonne    chace,     co. 

Sussex,    167. 
Ashendon,  Asslieden,  Asshedon   [by 

Tenterden],    co.    Kent,     230, 

231. 

manor  of,  2.30,  231, 

Ashford,    Esslietesford    [co.    Kent], 

parson    of.      See    Sodyngtoii, 

Henry  de. 
Ashorne,     Asshorne     [in     Newbold 

Pacy],  CO.  Warwick,  174. 
Ask,  Richard  do,  82,  3()."). 
Askeaton,    Inskisty,    co.    Limerick, 

manor  of,  154,  180. 
Askeby.    See  Ashby. 
Askeby,    William   de,    chancellor   of 

the  exchequer,  11.^. 
Aslocton,  Aslakton,  co.  Nottingham, 

314. 
Aspale,  Elizabeth  wife  of  John  de, 

knight,    190. 
,  Roliert  de,  parson  of  Warn- 

ford,    196. 
Aspefeld  in  Shaldeswell     [Shad well, 

CO.    Middlesex  ?],    182. 
Asschby  David,     Castell    de.       See 

Ashby,  Castle. 
Assedale.    See  Aysdale. 
Assel5'n,  Asslielyn,  John,  of  Fyfield. 

488. 
Ralph,  verdorer  of  Waltham 

forest,  428. 
Asshampsted.     See  Ashampstead. 
Asshe.   See  Ash. 
Asshe,  Aisshe,  John  de,  195. 

, ,  of  Otterton,  204. 

Asshebournham,  Asshobornham,  de, 

Dasshebovirnham,  John,   178, 
196. 

,  Roger,  178,  196,  280. 

Assheden.  Asshedon,    See  Ashendon. 
Asshedonne.    See  Ashdown. 
Assheruggeslud   [near  Windsor,    co. 

Berks],  133. 


Asshele,  William,  489. 

Asshelyn.     See  Asselyn. 

Assheton,     Asshton,     Matthew     de, 

parson  of  Shitlington,  474. 
,     Robert     de,     captain     of 

Guines  castle,  363. 
,   .  .  .  .,  chancellor  of  Ireland, 

lol. 

, ,  knight,  493,  494. 

Cf.  Aston. 

Asshewell,  Eustace  de,  of  Stamford, 

coroner  for  Lincolnshire,  129. 
Asshorne.    See  Ashorne. 
Asshton.    See  Assheton. 
Assington,  Assyngton,  Asyngton  [co. 

Suffolk],  manor  of,  186. 
assize  of  novel  disseisin.      See    Law 

and  administration. 
Astanwyk.    See  Elstronwick. 
Astclaj^don.    See  Claj'don,  East. 
Astelee.    See  Astlej'. 
Astelee,  John  son  of  Thomas  de,  187. 
AstoTiby     See  Alstonby. 
Asthorp,  Hasthorp,  Hastthorp,  Mar- 
garet  (de   Dynham)    wife    of 

William  de,  157. 
,  William  de,   157,    365,   377, 

397,  399. 

Cf.  Austhorp. 

Astley,  Astelee  [co.  Warwick],  deed 

dated  at,  187. 
Aston,  CO.  York,  248. 
,    Bampton,       by     Bampton 

[in    Bampton,     co.     Oxford], 

405,  406,  475. 
Cantlow,      Cantilupe      [co. 

Warwick],  161. 
Clinton,     Astonclj'nton,    co. 

Buckinghain,  manor  of,   214. 
,    Steeple,     Stapelaston,     co. 

Oxford,  fee  in,  496. 
Aston,    Hugh   de,   justice   of   assize 

and  gaol  delivery,  22. 
,  Walter  de,  parson  of  Dum- 

bleton,    184. 

Cf.  Assheton. 

Asty,  Henry,  68,  323. 

Cf.  Hasty. 

Asyngton.    See  Assington. 

Athelardeston.    See  Atherstone. 

Athelby,  Thomas  de,  269. 

Atheles,  Athell,  Athels.    See  Athole. 

Atherby,  Thomas,  161. 

Atherstone,     Athelardeston     [parish 

of    White      Lackington],    co. 

Somerset,  248. 
Atherton,  Nicholas  de,  179. 
Athmekart.    See  Aghmacart. 
Athol,  Athole  [Perthshire],  earls  of, 

317.  (See a/soStrabolgi,  David. 


512 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Athole,  Atheles,  Atliell,  Athels,  Aj^- 
mer  de,  knight,  274,  298,  349. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  kniglit  of  the  slnre  of 

Northumberland,    169,    273. 

Aton.    See  Ayton. 

Aton,  Wilham  de,  justice,  57. 

Atte.  See  Barnet,  Barre,  Berglie, 
Boure,  Brigge,  Broke,  Castell, 
Celer,  Chambre,  Churchc, 
Crook,  Cros,  Crouche,  Dane, 
Dene,  Doune,  Felde,  Fen, 
Forde,  Garstone,Glorie,  Grene, 
Grove,  Hach,  Hale,  Halle, 
Hayteleye,  Helde,  Hethe, 
Hirst,  Hole,  Holylond,  Hoo, 
Home,  Hulle,  Hurne,  Lake, 
Lee,  Lese,  Levere,  Mede, 
Melle,  Merc,  Merssh,  More, 
Morhalle,  Nasslie,  Nax,  Park, 
Peundo,  Pire,  Ponde,  Rame, 
Reche,  Rcye,  Rothe,  Seler, 
Slade,  Stone,  Strete,  Thorne- 
frith,  Vyne,  Warre,  Welle, 
Westende,   Wode,  Wyke. 

Attclburgli.    See  Attleborougli. 

Atteneston.    See  Adstone. 

Attleborough,  Attelburgh,  co.  Nor- 
folk, Crowshall  in,  5. 

Atwick,  Attyngvvyk  in  Holdernesse, 
CO.  York,  34(5. 

Auborn,  Auburne,  co.  Lincoln, 
inanor  of,  427. 

Aubrej',  Aubray,  Andrew,  92,  93. 

,  Elizabeth  wife  of  John,  488. 

Joan  wife  of  Andrew,  92. 

,  John,  170. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  63. 

,    .  .  .  . ,   of  London,   55,    381, 

382,  418,  487,  488. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  pepperer.  of  London, 

459,  460. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  son  of  Andrew,  pep- 
perer, of  London,  92. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  son  of  Joan,  500. 

,  Thomas,  93. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  collector  of  customs  at 

Boston,  250. 

Auburne.    See  Auborn. 

Audeleye,  Audele,  de,  Daudele, 
Daudeleye,  Elizabeth  (de 
Beaumont)  wife  of  Nicholas, 
237-239,  344,  345,  388,  392, 
460. 

,  Isabel  wife  of  James,   238, 

344. 

,    James,    lord    of    Redcastle 

and  Heighley,   237-239,   344, 
345,  460. 

,    .....  lord   of  Whittington, 

371. 


Audeleye — cont. 

, of  Heighley,  392. 

, , ,  knight,  388. 

,    ....    son    of   James,    238, 

344. 

,  Joan  wife  of  William,  214. 

,  Maud  servant  of  Eva,  281. 

,  Nicholas  son  of  James,  237- 

239,  345,  388,  392,  460. 
,  Thomas  son  of  James,  238, 

344. 

,  William,  214. 

Audley,  heritage  of,  237. 

Audley,      co.      Oxford,      Hardwick, 

Herdewyk  in,  214. 
Auencscote.  See  Ascotc. 
Aiikes,  Robert,  parson  of  Edmond- 

thorpe,   501. 
Aumale.   See  Albemarle. 
Aumberle,  John,  clerk,  454. 
Avnicel,  Auncell,  John,  457. 

,  .  .  .  .,  the  elder,  391. 

, the  younger,  391. 

Aunger,  Henry,  of  Ireland,  290. 

,  Robert,  clia])]ain,  290. 

C/.  Angre,  Aungre. 

Aungewyn,  John,   170. 
Aungre.   See  Ongar. 
Aungre,  Jolm  de.  383. 

Cf.  Angre,  Aunger. 

Auntioche,     Anteoche,     Auntyoche, 

John,  389. 

Simon,  164. 

Aure.    See  Awre. 
Aurneye.    See  Alderney. 
Austhorp,  William  de,  266. 

Cf.  Asthorp. 

Austyn,  Thomas,  475,  476. 

'.  . , ,  of  Hants,  204. 

Auteleye,  William  de,  471. 

Cf.  Audeleye. 

Aveley,    Alvethele,     Alvythele,    co. 

Essex,  300,  358,  363. 
Avenel,  Edmund,  knight,  490. 

John,  490. 

aventails,  441,  442,  444. 

Averenge,  Cicely  de,  495. 

Averey,  Jolm,  burgess  of  Dunstable, 

'302. 
Avon,  North,  Northavene  [in  Sopley], 

CO.  Hants,  51. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  44. 

,  South,  Suthavene   [in   Sop- 
ley],  CO.  Hants,  51. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  deed  dated  at,  44. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  44,  50. 

avoirdupois,  483. 

Awre,  Aure,  co.  Gloucester,  manor 

of,  437. 
,  Etloe,  Ettelowe  in,  437. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


513 


Axholme,    Axiholmo,    Tsle    of,    co. 

Lincoln,  295,  380. 
lord  of.    See  Mowbray,  John 

de. 
Aygnel.    See  Aignel. 
Aykesgarth.    See  Aysgarth. 
Aylard,  Richard,  377. 
Aylesbury,    Aillesbury,    co.     Buck- 

ingliani,  174. 
Aylesbury,    Aillesbury,    Ayllesbury, 

John  de,  knight,  54,  207. 
Aylesford,       Ailleford,       Eylesford, 

Eylisford  [co.  Kent],  159,  160. 

,  Cosington  in,  65. 

,  Eccles  in,  495. 

Ayllesbury.    See  Aylesbury. 
Aylmer,  Thomas,  433. 
Aymunderby,  John  do,  40. 
Aynell.    See  Aignel. 
Ayneshargh,  Richard  de,  mayor  of 

Liverpool,  226,  227. 
Aysdale,  Asedale,  Assedale  in  Skel- 

ton,  CO.  York,  283,  284. 
Aysgarth,    Aykesgarth,    co.     York, 

advowson  of,  351. 
,  Newbiggin,  Neubyggyng  in, 

351,  361. 
,    Thoralby,    Thoraldeby    in, 

351. 
Ayton,  Aton,  co.  York,  81,  83. 


B 

Baas,  John,  269. 
Babbelake,  John,  475,  476. 
Babynglee,  Thomas  de,  320. 
Bachecote,  John,  burgess  of  Calais, 

257,  258. 
Bacon,    Bacoun,    Beatrice    wife    of 

Stephen,  56. 
,       Margery       (de       Molyns) 

daughter  of  Edmund,  260. 
, wife     of      Edmund, 

260. 
,  Maud  daughter  of  Margaret 

daughter    of    Edmund,    260, 

260n. 

,  Roger,  of  Baconsthorpe,  400. 

,  Stephen,  of  Suffolk,  56. 

,  William,     Serjeant     of    co. 

Meath,  391. 
Baconesthorp.    See  Baconsthorpe. 
bacons,  cargo  of,  364. 


Baconsthorpe,     Baconesthorp,     co. 

Norfolk,  400. 
Bacoun.   See  Bacon. 
Badby,  John,  400. 
Baddow,  Great,  Great  Badewo,  co. 
Essex,  fee  in,  496. 

,    Little,    Little   Badewo,   co. 

Essex,  advowson  of,  415. 

,  .  .  .  .,  manor  of,  415. 

Badesore.  See  Bagesore. 
Badewe.   See  Baddow. 
Badewe,  Hugh  de,  496. 

,   ,  knight,  55,   197,  463, 

464,  488. 

,  Hugh  son  of  Hugh  de,  488. 

Badgworth,         Beggeworth,         co. 

Gloucester,  manor  of,  342. 
Badminton,  Badmynton,  co. 

Gloucester,  manor  of,  324. 
Badshot,     Batshate,     Batshete     [in 
Farnham,    co.    Surrey],    tith- 
ing of,  502,  503,  504. 

,  places  in,  502,  503,  504. 

Bagborough,  West,  Westbaggeburgh 

[co.  Somerset],  manor  of,  47. 

Bagesore,  Badesore,  Baggesore,  John 

de,  452. 
Baghill,  Margaret  wife  of  Robert  de, 

477. 
Baili,  John,  366. 

Cf.  Baylay. 

Bailiff,  Thomas,  377. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  le,  of  Ilvedon,  249. 

Baiouse,  Bayouse,  Robert,  496. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  de,  knight,  160. 

,  Simon,  497. 

Baker,  Andrew,  merchant,  322. 

, , ,  of  Cornwall,  368. 

,  Henr3^  of  Pelham,  43. 

,  John,  343. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  bailiff  of  Ryedale,  129. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  chaplain,  159,  160. 

,  Robert,  489. 

Cf.  Pesto,  Pistour. 

Bakester,  John,  the  elder,  282. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the  younger,  282. 

,  Robert,  of  Hedon,  192. 

balances   for  weighing  wool,  4,  104, 

111,  112. 
Baldwyne,  Baldewyne,  Baudewyne, 
John,    189,  313. 

,    of  Owlswiek,  172. 

,    ....    son  of  Henry,  61, 

,  Wmiam,  54,  189. 

Baldyndon,  John  de,  84. 
Baldyngton,  John  de,  justice,  185. 
Ballard,  Richard,  392. 
Balle,  John,  master  of  la  Peter,  of 
Liverpool,  25. 

,  Roger,  66. 

E33 


614 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Balle,  Roger — cont. 

, of  Dartford,  69. 

Balsham  [co.  Cambridge],  268. 
,  parson  of.  See  Sleford,  John 

de. 
Balston,  Nicholas  de,  of  Kngston- 

upon-Hull,   11. 
Balton,  Joan  wife  of  Roger  de,  4.59. 
,  Roger  de,  pepperer  of  Lon- 
don, 459. 
,    WiUiam    de,    pepperer    of 

London,  459. 
Bamburgh,  Baumburgh  [co.  North- 
umberland], 349. 

,  castle  of,  survey  of,  348,  349. 

,  .  .  . . ,  tower  of,  348. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  warden  of.  See  Neville, 

Ralph        de   ;        Pembrugge, 

Richard  de. 

,  lordship  of,  349. 

,Warenton,Warnehamin,426. 

Bampton,  co.  Oxford,  369. 

,  manor  of,  405,  406. 

,  Bami^ton  Aston  in,  405,  406, 

475. 

,  Brighthampton  in,  44,  45. 

Bampton,  John,  John  de,  176,  394. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Essex,  481. 

,  . .  .  . ,  of  Essex,  45. 

Banastre,  William,  191. 

,  .  .  .  . ,   of  Hadnall,  knight  of 

the  shire  of  Salop,  273. 
Banathlek  by  Bretheby  [hundred  of 

Pyder],  co.  Cornwall,  166. 
Banbury,  Banburgh,  co.  Oxford,  3. 
Bangor,   co.    Carnarvon,   bishop   of. 

See  Ringstede,  Thomas  de. 
,  bishop  elect  of.    See  Castro, 

Gervase  de. 
,    temporalities    of    bishopric 

of,  358. 
Bannebury,   Richard   de,   rector   of 

Wenyngton,  192. 
Bannoc,  Edmund,  citizen  of  London, 

176. 
Banstede.  See  Benstede. 
Barbour,    John,    burgess    of    Dun- 
stable, 302. 
,    Richard,    burgess   of   High 

Wycombe,  169. 
Barde,  Durandus,  341. 
,  Gautron  de,  master  of  the 

king's  money,   115. 

,  John  son  of  Durandus,  341. 

,  Margaret  wife  of  Robert,  of 

Osgodby,   239. 

,  Robert,  of  Osgodby,  330. 

,    ....      son    of    William,    of 

Osgodby,  tenant  in  chief,  20. 


Barde — cont. 

,  William  son  of  Durandus, 

341. 
Bardes,  Gauter  de,  451. 
,   Simon,  merchant  of  Lom- 

bardy,  455. 
,  Walter,  merchant  of  Lom- 

bardy,  455. 
Bardolf,  Bardulf,  John,  419. 
,   .  .  . . ,  coroner  for  co.  War- 
wick, 16. 

, ,  knight,  208. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Wormegay,  25,  104. 

,  Robert,  25. 

,  William  son  of  John,  263, 

419. 
Barenton.   ^ee  Baryngton. 
Barentyn,  Gilbert,  397,  399. 

,  John,  397,  399. 

,  Philip,  397,  399. 

,  William,  397,  399. 

Cf.  Barntyn. 

Bares,  Geoffrey,  de,  164. 

,  Margaret  wife  of  Geoffrey 

de,  164. 
Baret,  John,  177. 

,  Roger,  spicer,  93. 

Bareton,  Wilham,  248. 

Barford,  Bereford  [co.  Wilts],  50. 

,  deed  dated  at,  44. 

,  manor  of,  44. 

,  Little,  Little  Bereford,  co. 

Oxford,  3. 
barge    for   chancellor,   purchase   of, 

335. 
Barham,  William,  William  de,  470. 
Barkby,    co.     Leicester,    Hamilton, 

Hamelton  in,  427. 
Barkele,  Barkeleye.    See  Berkele. 
Barkere,  John,  oif  Olney,  54. 
Barking,   Berkyng,   co.   Essex,   328, 

500. 

,  Berkyng  [co.  Suffolk],  54. 

Barle,  William,  of  Hunden,  62. 

barley,  455. 

Barling,   Berlyng   [parish   of  Wark- 

worth],  CO.  Northumberland, 

140. 
Barnabe,  Edmund,  57,  207,  392. 
Barnack,  Bernak  [co.  Northampton], 

240. 
Bamburgh,  Barneburgh,    Roger  de, 

clerk,  388,  401. 
Barnet,  John,  bishop  of  Bath  and 

Wells,  48. 
,    .  .  .  . ,    .  .  . . ,   the   treasurer, 

123. 
,    bishop    of   Elv,    the 

treasurer,  382,  383,  403,  404, 

451,  465,  494. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


615 


Barnet,  John — cont. 

,  bishop  of  Worcester, 

the  treasurer,  114,  117,  118. 

,    Tliomas    atte,    citizen    of 

London,   384. 
Barneville,  Jolui,  190. 
Barningham,  Bernyngham  [co.  Suf- 
folk], 279. 
Barnstaple,  Bernestaple  [co.  Devon], 

bailiffs  of,  91. 
Barnston,     Berneston    [co.    Essex], 
manor  of,  464. 

,  Berneston,  CO.  Nottingham, 

313,  314. 
Barntyn,  Bartyn,  Tliomas,  166,  173. 

Cf.  Barentyn. 

Barnwell,  Bernewell  [co.  Cambridge], 

prior  of,  6. 
Barowe  [in  Holderness],   co.   York, 

315. 
Barr,  Great,  Barre,  co.  Stafford,  32. 
Barre,  John  atte,  69. 

,  Richard  de  la,  clerk,  294. 

,    Robert    atte,    collector    of 

customs  at  Southampton,  333. 

,  Thomas  de,  13. 

Barrow,  Burgh,  co.  Derby,  mill  in, 

475. 
Barry,  John,  289. 

,  William,  498. 

Barshale,  William  de,  385. 
Barsham    [co.    Suffolk],    parson    of. 

See  Bouresyard,  Alexander. 
Bartelot,  Bertelot,  Bertlot,  Alice,  of 
Burwell,  225. 

,  ....    daughter  of  John  son 

of  Alice,  225. 

,  Henry,  346. 

,  John,  346. 

,  Margaret  daughter  of  John 

son  of  Alice,  225. 

,  Maud  wife  of  John  son  of 

Alice,  225. 

,    ....     wife  of  Walter,  503, 

504. 

,  Richard,  of  Welford,  161. 

Robert,  330. 

,  Walter,  503,  504. 

,  Welthian  wife  of  Henry,  346. 

Bartlesden.  See  Basildon. 
Bartlow    End,    Berklawe    [in    Ash- 
don],  CO.  Essex,  496. 
Barton  [in  Bristol].   See  Bristol. 

,  Great,  Berton  [co.  Suffolk], 

279. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  deed  dated  at,  279. 

-in-Fabis,  Barton,    co.    Not- 
tingham, 17. 

-on-Humber,    upon    Humbre 

[co.  Lincoln],  291. 


Barton-on-Humber — cont. 

.bailiffs  of,  91,  137. 

,  customers  of,  137. 

-on-Irwell,  Barton  [in  Eccles], 

CO.  Lancaster,  473. 
Barton,  Henry  de,  473. 
,    .  .  .  . ,  canon  of  St.  Peter's, 

York,  201. 
,  John  de,  mercer  of  London, 

209. 
,  . .  . . ,  parson  of  Leckhamp- 

stead,  365. 

,  Jordan  de,  72. 

,  Robert  de,  of  Coventry,  281. 

Cf.  Berton. 

Bartyn.  See  Barntyn. 

Barugh,    Little,     Little    Bergh    [in 

Kirby  Misporton],  co.  York, 

345. 
Baryngton,  Barenton,  John,  388. 

Nicholas  de,  174,  388. 

Bas,  Andrew  le,  133. 

Basildon,  Bastelesden,  co.  Berks,  40. 

,  Bartlesden  [in  Laindon],  co. 

Essex,  205. 
Basingstoke,  Bassjmgstoke,  Basyng- 

stoke,  CO.  Hants,  454,  486. 

,  farm  of  manor  of,  453. 

,  hundred  of,  486. 

basins,  cargo  of,  316. 
Basly,  Richard,  343. 
Basset,  Henry,  498. 

,  Ralph,  lord  of  Drayton,  184. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Drayton,  32. 

,  Robert,  406. 

Bassingbourn,     Bassyngborne     [co. 

Cambridge],  69. 
Bassyngbourne,  Alice  wife  of  Giles 

de,  430,  431. 

,  Giles  de,  431. 

,  John  de,  knight,  49. 

,      Margaret      (de     Coleville) 

daughter  of  Giles  de,  431. 
Bassyngstoke.    See  Basingstoke. 
Bastelesden.    See  Basildon. 
Basyng,  John,  of  West  Meon,  491. 

,  Reynold  de,  289. 

Basynges,  Adam  de,  241,  242. 
Basyngstoke.   See  Basingstoke. 
Bataille,  John,   133,   306,  343,  493, 

496. 

,  ....  son  of  John,  171. 

,  Thomas  of  the,  298. 

Bate,  John,  395. 
Bateley,  Robert  de,  388. 

Cf.  Batheleye. 

Batelisford,  William,   183. 

Batesforde,  William  de,  289. 

Bath,  CO.  Somerset,  deed  dated  at, 

466. 


616 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Bath — cont. 

,  mayor  of,  seal  of,  466. 

,  prior  of,  454. 

Bath  and  Wells,  bishop  of.  See 
Barnet,  John  ;  Harowell, 
John  ;  Shrewsbury,  Ralph  of. 

,    guardians   of   temporalities 

of  bishopric  of,  4,  355. 

Bathe,  William,  Wilham  de,  72,  173, 
188,  387. 

Batheaston,  Bedmeston,  co.  Somer- 
set, 144,  220. 

Batheleye,  John  de,  404. 

,  Richard  de,  278,  464. 

Cf.  Bateley. 

Bathesthorne.    See  Batteshorne. 

Batshate,  Batshete.    See  Badshot. 

Batte,  Henry,  of  Stongate,  312. 

Batteshorne,  Bathesthorne  [in  Honi- 
ton],  CO.  Devon,  359. 

Battle  [co.  Sussex],  abbot  of,  184. 

Batulfeld.     See  Blakesley. 

Baude,  John,  knight,  495. 

,  William,  knight,  171,  461. 

,  ....  son  of  John,  42,  43. 

Baudeseye.    See  Bawdsey. 

Baudewyne.    See  Baldewyne. 

Baudre,  William,  of  Abington,  69. 

Baumburgh.    See  Bamburgh. 

Bavent,  Roger,  knight,  234,  235. 

Bawdsey,  Baudeseye  [co.  Suffolk], 
baihffs  of,  91. 

Bayfield,  Hayfeld,  co,  Norfolk,  fee 
in,  497. 

Baylay,  Bayley,  Richard,  159,  160. 

Cf.  Baili. 

Baylham,  Boylham,  co.  Suffolk, 
340. 

Baynard,  Thomas,  463. 

Baj'onne,  Bayoiin  [France],  citizen 
of,  407. 

Bayouse.    See  Baiouse. 

Bays,  John,  306. 

.  .  .\  .  ., ,  of  Yeovil,  47. 

Beachington,  Bichyndon,  co.  Buck- 
ingham, manor  of,  405. 

Beaconsfield,  Bekenesfeld  [co.  Buck- 
ingham], 86. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  80,  308. 

,  parson  of.    See  Tymberlake, 

Richard. 

Beams,  Beaumys,  co.  Wilts  [in 
Shinfield  and  Swallowfield,  co. 
Berks],  manor  of,  107,  208. 

Beanley,  Benley,  co.  Northumber- 
land, manor  of,  438. 

Beauchamp.   See  Bello  Campo. 

Beauchamp  Hall,  Beauchampes  in 
Dullingham,  co.  Cambridge, 
manor  of,  491. 


Beaufo,  William,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Rutland,  169,  480. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  verderer  of  the  forest 

of  Rutland,  42. 
Beaulieu,  Kings  Beaulieu,  Beaulieu 

Regis  [co.  Hants],  abbot  and 

convent  of,  delivery  of  wine 

to,  18,  216. 
Beaulieu,  Beaulu,  Richard,  Richard 

de,  428. 
,  .  .  . . ,  verderer  of  Inglewood 

forest,  246. 
Beaumont,  Beaumount.     See  Bello 

Monte. 
Beaumys.    ^ee  Beams. 
Beausolas     [near     Holbeach],     co. 

Lincoln,  manor  of,  469. 
Beauver.  See  Carrigaline. 
Bee,  Bee  Herlewyn  [Normandy,  dep. 

Em-e],  abbot  of,  454. 
Beche,  Edmund  de  la,  40,  107,  208. 
,    .  .  .  . ,  archdeacon  of  Berk- 
shire, 271. 

,  John  de  la,  40. 

,  Nicholas  de  la,  208,  271. 

,  Robert  de  la,  40. 

,  William  de  la,  40. 

Becheshale,      Bedeshale,      Richard, 

parson  of  Foxearth,  186. 
Beckel,  Bekkles  by  Hengham  upon 

Tamese  [in  Chalk],  co.  Kent, 

fee  in,  495. 
Beckett,   Bockote   [in  Shrivenham], 

CO.    Berks,   deeds    dated   at, 

402. 

,  manor  of,  402. 

Bedeford,  John  de,  73. 
Bedel,  William,  386. 
Bedeshale.     See  Becheshale. 
Bedford  [co.  Bedford],  burgesses  of, 

summoned  to  parliament,  169, 

274,  481. 
Bedford,  county  of,  68,  86,  175,  260, 

461. 
,   escheator  in.      See  Olneye, 

John  ;  Otteford,  William  de. 
,  guardians  of  the  peace  and 

justices  of  oyer  and   terminer 

in,  407. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  168, 

480. 
,  sheriff  of,  10,  141,  142,  228, 

229. 
Bedford,  earl  of.    See  Coucy,  Ingel- 

ram  de. 
Bedmeston.    See  Batheaston. 
Bedminster,  co.  Somerset,  KnoUe  in, 

294. 
Bedon,  Bydon,  John,  503,  504. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Tongham,  502. 


] 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


617 


Bedullo,  Budello,  LeduUe,  John,  of 

Standlake,  471,  472,  473,  474. 
Bedwin,  Little,  co.  Wilts,  Chisbury 

in,  82. 
Beochingstoke,     co.     Wilts,      Puck 

Shipton,  Pukoshopyn  in,  493. 
Beef,  John,  391. 
Beek,  Nicholas  de,  309. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and     justice     of     oj^er     and 

terminer  in  Staffordshire,  289. 
Beeleigh,  Bilegh  abbey  [co.  Essex], 

advowson  of,  200. 
Beelsby,  Belesby,  Belisby,  co.  Lin- 
coln, 87,  436,  437. 
Beer   Crocombe,    Beere   Craucombe 

[co.  Somerset],  manor  of,  47. 
Beetley,  Bettlee  [co.  Norfolk],  489. 
Begelley,  co.  Pembroke,  West  Wil- 

liamston  in,  346. 
Beggeworth.    See  Badgworth. 
Beghom.    See  Bewholnie. 
Bek,  John,  200. 
Bekenesfeld.     See  Beaconsfield. 
Bekenesfeld,  Nicholas  de,  escheator 

in  Ireland,  154,  180. 
Beket,  John,  466. 

,  ....  brother  of  Thomas,  306. 

,  Thomas,  306. 

Cf.  Bockote. 

Bekham,   Roger  de,   knight  of  the 

shire  of  Norfolk,  273. 
Bekkles.    See  Beckel. 
Bekyngham,  Ellis  de,  77. 
Bekyngton,     Bekynton,     John     de, 

escheator  in  Dorset,  5,  8,  107, 

111,  133,  227,  248,  257. 
,    .  .  .  . ,    ....   in  Somerset,  5, 

108,  127,  144,  157,  217,  220, 

247,  248,  321,  353,  360. 
Bele  {alias  Fleccher),  John,  28. 
,    William,    William   le,    502, 

503,  504. 

Cf.  Belle. 

Boleknappo,     Beleknap,     Belknapp, 

Amy  wife  of  Robert  de,  206, 

300,  301. 
,  Robert,  Robert  de,  66,  69, 

206,  300,  301,  392. 
,    .  .  .  . ,   justice   of   assize   in 

Essex,  272. 
Belere,  Roger,  knight,  68. 
Belers,  James  son  of  Ralph,  419. 

,  Ralph,  419. 

Belesby.    See  Beelsby. 

Belesby,      Belisby,      William      de, 

knight,  88,  274,  436,  437. 
,    .  .  .  . ,    ....    of  the  shire  of 

Lincoln,  169. 
Belet,  Roger,  of  Laleham,  268. 


Bolet — cont. 

,  Walter,  375. 

Belevale,  John,  269. 
Belowc,  John,  chaplain,  86. 
Belhous,  BoUous,  Thomas,  197. 

, ,  of  AveJoy,  300. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  verderer  of  Waltham 

forest,  428. 
,  .  .  .  .  son  of  John  son  of  John 

de,  432. 
Belisby.    See  Beelsby,  Belesby. 
Belknapp.    See  Beleknappe. 
Belle,  BoUo,  John,  249. 

,  Thomas,  of  Croxby,  87,  88. 

,  William,  411,  412. 

Cf.  Bele. 

Bellerby,  Henry  de,  212. 

Bello  Campo,  Beauchamp,  Alice  wife 

of  John  de,  435. 

,  Cicely  de,  20. 

,  ....  sister  of  John  de,  435. 

,  Eleanor  sister  of  John  de,  435. 

,  John  de,  of  Lillisdon,  489. 

,    . .  .  . ,  of  Somerset,  20,   52, 

435,  491. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  tenant  in  chief,  5. 

,  Margaret  daughter  of  Roger 

de,  501. 

,  ....  wife  of  John  de,  435. 

,  Roger  de,  knight,  501. 

,  Thomas  de,  earl  of  Warwick, 

83,   114,   143,   162,  258,   374, 

389,  472. 
,   .  .  .  . ,   .  .  .  . ,  chamberlain  of 

the  exchequer,  249. 
,   .  . . . ,   . . . . ,  lord  of   Gower 

and  Elvel,  371. 
,    justice   of  oyer   and 

terminer    in    Worcestershire, 

216. 
Bello  Monte,  Beaumont,  Beaumount, 

Alice  de,  eoimtess  of  Bvichan, 

237,  239,  344. 

,       Elizabeth        (Daudeleye) 

daughter    of    Alice    de,    237, 

238,  239. 

,  Henry  de,  16,  17,  366. 

, ,  knight,  465,  473. 

,  Henry  son  of  Henry  de,  1 7. 

Bellous.    See  Belhous. 

Belne,  John  de,  72. 

Belsay,    Belsowe    [in    Bolum],    co. 

Northumberland,    426. 
Belstede,  John  de,  386. 
Belton,  Bilton,  co.  Lincoln,  420. 
Bench,  the  Common,  198. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  chief  justice  of.     See 

Thorpe,  Robert  de. 
,  .  .  .  .,  justices  of,  32,  46,  47, 

57,  60,  '67,  106,  107,  125,  138, 


518 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Bench,  the  Common,  justices  of — 
cont. 

180,  186,  209,  223,  224,  243, 
244,  256,  257,  266,  275,  278, 
291,  314,  315,  345,  372,  373, 
374,  392,  426,  468,  469,  473, 
478,  481,  482,  500.  See  also 
Mowbray,  John  do  ;  Thorpe, 
Robert  de. 

,  . .  . . ,  recognisance  in,  68. 

,  the  King's,  492. 

,   . .  . .,  chief  justice  of.     See 

also  Grene,  Henry  ;  Ivnyvet, 
John. 

,  . .  .  . ,  justices  of,  57, 107,  345, 

426.     See  also  Grene,  Henry. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  process  in,  32. 

Bencham.    See  Bensham. 

benefit  of  clergy.  See  clergy. 

Beneknoll.    See  Bincknoll. 

Benet,  Beneyt,  John,  73,  195,  265. 

,  . .  .  . ,  escheator  in  Glouces- 
tershire, 418,  422,  436,  437, 
438,  446. 

,     .  .  .  . ,     ....     in    march    of 

Wales  adjoining  Gloucester- 
shire, 418,  438. 

,   of  Dorchester,  204. 

,  Thomas,  of  Appledore,  368, 

369. 

,  . .  .  . ,  of  Warwick,  473. 

,  WUliam,  468. 

Benfieet,  Beniflet  [co.  Essex],  293. 

Benham,  John  de,  citizen  of  Oxford, 
481. 

Beniflet.     See  Benfleet. 

Benley.    See  Beanley. 

Benne,  Emma,  286. 

Bensham,  Bencham  [in  Croydon], 
CO.  Surrey,  401. 

Benstede,  Banstede,  Edward  son  of 
John  de,  272,  373. 

,  Johnde,  217,  218. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  tenant  in  chief,  272. 

,  Parnell  wife  of  John  de,  218. 

Bentelay,  Bentele,  Benteley,  Hugh 
de,  488. 

,  .  . .  . ,  of  Doncaster,  387. 

,  John  de,  attorney  of  Richard 

de  Ravenser,  282. 

, rector  of  Chelsfield,  460. 

Bentele.    See  Bentelay,  Bentley. 

Benteley.   See  Bentelay. 

Bentley,  Bentele,  Little,  co.  Essex, 
manor  of,  451. 

chapel    in     Shustoke     [co. 

Warwick],  chantry  in,  162. 

Benyngton.     See  Binnington. 

Benyngton,  Simon  de,  54. 

,  Thomas  de,  294,  388. 


Benytestrete,  co.  Berks,  133. 
Beorton,  Richard  de,  103. 
Berard,  William,  163. 
Bercheston,   Alexander  de,   coroner 

for  Warwickshire,  156. 
Berden,  John  de,  168,  197. 
Bere,  Byre,  hundred  of  [co.  Dorset], 

133,  134. 

, .bailiff  of,  134. 

Bere  Regis,  Byre,  la  Bere,  co.  Dorset, 

133. 

,  church  of,  172. 

,  manor  of,  133,  134. 

,  wood  of,  133,  134. 

Bere,  John,  185. 

,  Richard,  81,  191. 

,  Thomas  de  la,  184,  392. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Dorset,  168. 
,     John     Warde     his 

servant,  392. 
Bereford.    See  Barford. 
Bereford,  Baldwin  de,  knight,  276, 

495. 
Bereholt,  John,  carpenter  of  London, 

488. 
Berewell,  Edmund  de,  462,  463. 
Berewic.     See  Berwick-on-Tweed. 
Berewyk.     See  Berwyck. 
Berewyk,  county  of.     See  Berwick- 
shire. 
Bergeveny.    See  Abergavenny. 
Bergh.  See  Barugh. 
Bergh,    Eustace    de,    merchant    of 

Bruges,  159. 

,  John  de,  401. 

Berghe,  Walter  atte,  193. 
Bergholte,  Richard  de,  463. 
Berghton.   See  Broughton. 
Berier,  Robert,  285. 
Berkele,  Barkele,  Barkeleye,  Cicely 

wife  of  Nicholas,  424. 

,  Edward  de,  knight,  398,  474. 

,   Elizabeth  wife  of  Maurice 

son    of    Thomas    de,    knight, 

437,  446. 
,   Joan  wife  of  Thomas  de, 

219. 

, ,  knight,  157. 

,  Maurice  son  of  Thomas  de, 

446. 
,      Nicholas,      Nicholas     de, 

knight,  45,  424. 

,  Thomas  de,  446. 

, ,of  Coberly,  219. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  knight,  157. 

Berkeley   [co.   Gloucester],   lordship 

of,  103. 
Berkhampstead    [co.    Herts],    road 

from  Watford  to,  49. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


519 


Berklawe.   See  Bartlow  End. 
Berks,  county  of,  G4,  69,   104,   1G5, 
185,  2G8,  280,  393,  39G. 

,  archdeacon  of.     See  Boche, 

Edmund  de  la. 

,  eschoator  in.    See  Evesham, 

John  de. 

,  guardians  of  the  peace  and 

justices  of  oyer  and  terminer 
in,  478. 

,  kniglits  of  the  shire  of,  169, 

273,  480. 

,  sheriff  of,  16,  133,  362,  478. 

See  also  Cotesford,  Roger  de. 

,  taxation  in,  281,  380. 

Berkyng.    See  Barking. 

Berling,  Brydlyng  [in  East  Dean], 

CO.  Sussex,  414. 
Berlyng.    See  Barling. 
Bermeo,  province  of  Biscay,  Spain, 

merchants  of,  102,  103. 
Bermondsey,      Bermondeseye      [co. 
Svirrey],  St.  Saviour's  priory, 
Peter    prior    of,    174,  193. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  prior   and  convent  of, 

2,  6. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  prior  of.  See  Chierlieu, 

John  de  ;  Tevole,  Peter  de. 
Bermondspit,    Bermundesputte   [co. 

Hants],  htmdred  of,  486. 
Bermyngeham,  Burmyngham,  Fulk 
de,  knight,  169,'  396,  397. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Warwick,  168,  273. 
Bernak.    See  Barnack. 
Bernak,  John,  tenant  in  chief,  228. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  son  of  John,  228. 

,  Maud  (de  Cromwell),  sister 

of  William,  228. 

,  William  son  of  John,  228. 

Bernard,  Edmund,  377. 

,  Gilbert,  24. 

,  John,  escheator  in  Leicester- 
shire, 248,  256,  347,  358, 
359. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Warwickshire, 

248,  256,  347. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Leicestershire,  377. 

,  Nicholas,  surveyor  of  works 

at  Windsor,  412. 
Bernaston,  Thomas  de,  knight,  274. 
Berner,  John,  of  Axholme,  386. 
Berners,  Ralph,  clerk,  463. 

,  Thomas  de,  464. 

Berners,  fee  of,  496. 

Berners   Roothing,   RothjTigberners 

[co.  Essex],  manor  of,  464. 
Bernestaple.  See  Barnstaple. 
Berneston.    See  Barnston. 
Bernewell.    See  Barnwell. 


Bernewode.    See  Bernwood. 
Berneye,  John  de,  justice,  384. 

,  .....  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Norfolk,  480. 
Bernham,     John     de,     coroner    for 
Essex,  30. 

,    Mary   wife   of   Robert   de, 

tenant  in  chief,  215. 
Bernwood,    Bernewode,    Brenewode 
forest,       CO.       Buckingliam, 
forestership  of,  229,  230. 

,  regard  of,  476. 

Bernyngham.    *See  Barningham. 
Berry  Pomeroy,   Byry,   co,  Devon, 
fees  in,  364. 

,  manor  of,  364. 

Bertelot,  Bertlot.    See  Bartelot. 
Bert  on.  See  Barton,  Burton  Grove(?) 
Berton,  Richard  de,  72. 

,  Sir  Thomas  de,  clerk,  65. 

Cf.  Barton. 

Bertram,  Nicholas,  162. 

,  Robert,  147. 

Berwick-on-Tweed,  Berewic, Berwick 
upon  Twede,  chamberlain  of. 
See  Vale,  William  de  la. 

,  collectors  of  customs  at,  52, 

104. 

,  keeper  of.    See  Heton,  Alan 

de  ;    Malo  Lacu,  Peter  de. 

,  mayor  and  bailiffs  of,   52, 

153. 
Berwickshire,    county    of    Berewyk 

[Scotland],  194. 
Berwyck,  Berewyk,  Hugh  de,  knight, 
84,  166,  173,  208,  367,  368. 

,  Margaret  wife  of  Hugh  de, 

367. 
Bescoldeby.    See  Beskaby. 
Besiles,    BesUles,    Besyles,   Thomas, 
Thomas  de,  165. 

,   ,  knight,   19,  397,  463, 

471,  472,  473,  474. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Berks,  480. 
Beskaby,    Bescoldeby    [in    Croxton 
Kerrial],  co.  Leicester,  manor 
of,  358. 
Beskewode.    See  Bestwood. 
Besthorpe,   co.   Norfolk,   manor  of, 

228. 
Bestwood     Park,     Beskewode     [co. 
Nottingham],  repair  of,  429. 
Besyles.   See  Besilles. 
Bettelowe,  John,  400. 
Bettenham,  William,  of  Middlesex, 

470. 
Bettlee.   See  Beetley. 
Beumond,      Roger,      called     Jolyf, 
369. 


520 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Beverle,  Beverlee,  Beverleye,  Alan 
de,  76. 

,  John,  John  de,  215,  269,  296. 

,  Richard  de,  parson,  rector 

of  Croft,  400,  502. 

,  Robert  de,  432. 

,  Thomas  de,  193,  376. 

Beverley,  co.  York,  bailiffs  of,  229. 

,  provost  of  St.  John's  church. 

See  Maiinsel,  John  ;    Raven- 
sere,  Richard  de. 

,  sale  of  wine  in,  299. 

Beverleye.     See  Beverle. 

Bewholme,  Beghom  [in  Niinkeeling], 
CO.  York,  245. 

Beyford,  William  de,  373. 

Beyvyn,  John,  201. 

Bichyndon.    See  Beachington. 

Bickenhall,  Bikenliiill,  co.  Somerset, 
220. 

Bickerigge.   See  Ditteridge.    • 

Bickerton,  Bikerton,  co.  York,  245. 

Bicknor,  Bikenore,  co.  Gloucester, 
manor  of,  347. 

Bidborough,  Buttebergh  [co.  Kent], 
184. 

Biename.    See  Binhamy. 

Biernes,  John  de,  92. 

Bifeld,  William  de,  clerk,  343. 

Biggleswade,  Bikeleswade,  co.  Bed- 
ford,   387. 

Bigott.  See  Bygot. 

Bikeleswade.    See  Biggleswade. 

Bikenliull.  See  Bickenliall. 

Bikenore.   See  Bicknor. 

Bikenore,  Bykenoro,  John  de,  of 
Clavering,  lord  of  Coldham, 
185. 

Robert  de,  of  Dartford,  185. 

Bikerton.    See  Bickerton. 

Bilbao,  Bilvao,  province  of  Biscay, 
Spain,  merchants  of,  102,  103. 

Bilegh.   See  Beeleigh. 

Bilhagh,  co.  York,  147. 

Billesford.   See  Bitclifield. 

Billing,  Billjaige,  Great,  co.  North- 
ampton, fee  in,  498. 

[Little],   CO.   Northampton, 

rec'tor     of.         See     Welton, 
Richard  de. 

Billington,     Billynton     [parish     of 
Blackburn],     co.     Lancaster, 
239,  249. 
,  manor  of,  239. 

Billynge.    See  Billing. 

Billynton.    See  Billington. 

]iilsington,  BilsjTigton,  co.  Kent, 
church  of,  446. 

,  manor  of,  446. 

priory,  348,  446. 


Bilsington  priory — cont. 

,  Edmund  prior  of,  348. 

,  prior  and  convent  of, 

446. 
,  prior  of.    See  Romen- 

eye,  John  de. 

,  William  prior  of,  446. 

Bilton.    See  Belton. 
Bilton,  Alice  de,  282. 

,  John  de,  287. 

Bilvao.   See  Bilbao. 

BincknoU,  BeneknoU,  BykenoUe  [in 

Broad  Hinton],  co.  Wilts,  fee 

in,  498. 

,  manor  of,  82. 

Bingley,  Byngelay,  co.  York,  360. 
Binhamy,  Bienaraie  [in  Stratton],  co. 

Cornwall,  manor  of,  501. 
Binnington,    Benyngton,    co.    York, 

140. 
Birch,  Walter,  312. 

,  William,  neif,  312. 

Birch  Wood,  Birchenemor,  in  Max- 
stoke,  CO.  Warwick,  162. 
Birdham,  Bridham  [co.  Sussex],  par- 
son of.  See  Heyne,  John. 
Birlyngham,  John  de,  300. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  London,  402. 

Birstall,   Biirstall  [co.   York],  prior 

of,  153. 

,  ....  and  convent  of,  392. 

Birton.  See  Burton  Goggles. 
Biscay,     province     of,     county     of 

Viscagia,  Spain,   102. 
Bishop,   Bischop,  Bisshop,  Alice  de 

Thisteldon  wife  of  John,  329. 

,  John,  161,  329. 

,  Robert,  249. 

,  William,  268. 

,     ....    son    of    Thomas,    of 

Mickleton,    161. 
Bishops    Cannings,     Canynges,     co. 

Wilts,  Coate,  Cotes  in,  27. 
Bishops  Hatfield.    See  Hatfield. 
Bishops    Lavington,    Bishops    Lav- 

yngton.    See  Lavington. 
Bishops  Lenne.     See  Lynn. 
Bishops  Stortford.     See  Stortford. 
Bishopstone,  co.  Hereford,  Bunshill, 

Bunshull  in,  281. 
Bishopstrow,     Busshepestrowe     [co. 

Wilts],   193,  194. 
Bishops    Waltham,    Waltham    [co. 

Hants],  chancery  at,  484,  485. 
Bisshebury,  Thomas  de,  22. 
Bisshey.    See  Bushey. 
Bisshey,  John  de,  314,  315. 
Bisshop.    See  Bishop. 
Bisshopeston,  John,  John  de,  clerk, 

201,  465,  478. 


I 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


521 


Bisshopeston,  John — cont. 

,     deputy    searcher    of 

forfeitures  in  Calais,  292. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  escheator  in  Kent,  445, 

44G. 
Bissyngton,     co.     Northumberland, 

147. 
Bitchfield,    Billesford,    co.    Lincoln, 

manor  of,  427. 
Bitham.    See  Bytham. 
Bitlesgate,     Bvtelesgate,     Thomas, 

175,  266. 
Bitton,     Bukton,     co.     Gloucester, 

manor  of,  424. 
Bixle,   Juliana    (atte   Fen)   wife   of 

Roger,  294. 

,  Roger,  294. 

Black    Bourton,    Burton    by    Hoge 

[rectius   Brize  ?]   Norton,    co. 

Oxford,    fee    in,    496. 
Blackar,  Richard,  383. 
Blackbvim,  co.  Lancaster,  Billington 

in,  239,  240. 
„ ,     Ramsgreave,     Romesgreve 

in,  239,  249. 
Black  Notley.    See  Notley,  Black. 
Blaen-llyfni,  Blenleveny  [co.  Brecon], 

keeper  of  lordship  of,  371. 
Blakbourn,    Blakebiirn,    Henry    de, 

clerk,  171. 

,  Robert  de,  297,  298. 

Blake,  Adam  son  of  John,  270. 

,  John,  270. 

,  Richard,  92,  231,  313. 

Blakeburn.    See  Blakbourne. 
Blakeney,  Blakeneye,  co.  Gloucester, 

437. 
,  alias  Sniterle,  co.  Norfolk, 

baOiffs  of,  91. 
bailiffs,   customers   etc.   of, 

137. 

,  fee  in,  497. 

,  sale  of  fish  at,  58. 

Blakeneve,    John    de,    of    London, 

57. 
Blakenham,      Little,      Blakynham, 

Little  Blakynham,  co.  Suffolk, 

340. 

,  advowson  of,  340,  341. 

Blake  Nuttele.    See  Notley,  Black. 
Blakesley,     Batulfeld,     co.    North- 
ampton, fee  in,  497. 
Blaket.  Bartholomew,  264,  298. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Hertfordshire,  314, 

315. 

,  Isabel,  488. 

Blakynham.    See  Blakenham. 
blanch  farm,  41. 
Blankeneye,  Walter,  300, 
blanket,  cloth  of,  427. 


blankets,  441,  445. 

Blajikmoustor,  John  de,  knight,  501. 

Blatherwycke,       Blatherwyk,       co. 

Northampton,    advowson    of, 

411. 

,  manor  of,  411,  412. 

,   parson   of.      See   Stratton, 

Thomas  de. 
Blatherwyk,  Robert  de,  162. 
Blaxhill  [in  Enmore]  ?  Blecchewell, 

CO.  Somerset,  144,  220. 
Blaye,  John  de,  of  San  Sebastian, 

407,  408. 
Blebviry,    Bleobury,    John   de,    195, 

270,  393. 

, clerk,  475,  479,  483. 

,  .  .  .  . ,   .  .  .  . ,  of  Shellingford, 

503. 
Blecchewell.    See  Blaxhill  ? 
Blecchyngleghe.     See  Bletchingly. 
Blechesdon.   See  Bletchingdon. 
Bledelawe.    See  Bledlow. 
Bledesloe,  Bliddeslowe,  co.  Glouce.s- 

ter,  hundred  of,  437. 
BledewA^ne,    Blythewvn,    Nicholas, 

469,  478, 
Bledlow,  Bledelawe,  co. Buckingham, 

454. 

,  parson  of.  See  Otery,  Roger. 

Bledlowe,  Lewis,  of  Takeley,  62. 
Blenleveny.    See  Blaen-llyfni. 
Bleobury.    See  Blebury. 
Blere,  Walter,  373. 
Bletchingdon,   Blechesdon,   co.   Ox- 
ford, 3. 
Bletchingly,      Blecchyngleghe,      co. 

Surrey,  54. 
Bletsoe,  Bletteneshoo,  co.  Bedford, 

advowson  of,  434.    • 
,  manor  of,  knights'  fees  in, 

434. 
Bliddeslowe.    See  Bledesloe. 
Bliton,  Blyton,  John  de.  knight,  274. 

,  .  .  . . ,  of  Lincoln,  clerk,  414. 

,  William  de,  360. 

Blockele,  Blockeleye,  Blokle,  Blok- 

leye,  John  de,  115. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  auditor  of  the  queen's 

accounts,  408. 

,  .  .  .  .,  clerk,  174. 

,  .  . .  . ,  parson  of  Lighthorne, 

187. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the  younger,  187. 

,  Reynold,  chaplain,  of  Stand- 
lake,  471. 
William  son  of  William  de, 

502. 
Blode,  Thomas,  fishmonger  of  Lon- 
don, 170. 
Blofield,  Blofeld,co.Norfolk,255, 259. 


522 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Blokkesworth,  Avice  wife  of  Henry 

de,  330,  331. 
Blokle,  Blokleye.    See  Blockele. 
Blonvylle,  Nicholas,  of  Norfolk,  209. 
Blound,  Thomas,  170. 
Blount,  Andrew  de,  heirs  of,  497. 

,  Hugh,  Hughle,  174. 

,  John  son  of  Hugh  le,  174. 

,  Joyce  mother  of  Hugh  le, 

174. 

,  Thomas  de,  knight,  62. 

, son  of  Hugh,  388. 

Blounteston.    See  Blunsdon. 
Bloxham,    co.    Oxford,    the    Grove, 

Grava  in,   3. 
Bluet,    Elizabeth    (Pycot)    daughter 
of  John  of  Raglan,  466. 

,  John,  270. 

,  Walter,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Somerset,  480. 
Blundel,  Robert,  citizen  of  Chiches- 
ter, 274. 
Blunsdon,    Blounteston,    co.    Wilts, 

fee  in,  497. 
Blunts,     Gynghejoyberdlaundre    [in 

Buttsbury],  co.   Essex,   388. 
Blyth,    William   de,    archdeacon   of 

Norfolk,  469. 
Blythe,  river,  co.  Warwick,  162. 
Blythewyn.     See  Bledewyne. 
Blyton.    See  Bliton. 
Boarhunt,    Bovirhunt   Herberd    [oo. 
Hants],  manor  of,  406. 

,    West,    Westbovirliunt    [co. 

Hants],  406. 
Boarstall,  Borstall,  co.  Buckingham, 

manor  of,  229,  230. 
Boberch,  Gerard  lord  of,  388. 
Boce,  Ralph,  393,  472. 

Cf.  Bosse. 

Bocher,  Peter,  82,  398. 

, le,  48. 

Bocking,  Bockyng  [co.  Essex],  473. 
Bockote.  See  Beckett. 
Bockote,  John,  John  de,  165. 

, ,  of  Berkshire,  369. 

, ,  of  Beckett,  402. 

,  Walter,  of  Shrivenham,  402. 

Cf.  Beket. 

Bockyng.   See  Bocking. 
Bockyng,  Philip  de,  clerk,  46. 
Bocland,  Bokeland,  Walter,  484,  485. 
Bocton.    See  Boughton. 
Boddington,   Botindon,    Botingdon, 
CO.  Northampton,  fee  in,  498. 
Bodekesham.    See  Bottisham. 
Bodekesham,  John  de,  178. 
Bodewelle,  Nicholas,  268. 
Bodley,    Buddele   in    Lambeth,    co. 
Surrey,  383. 


Bodmin,    Bodmynn,   co.    Cornwall, 
166. 

,  prior  of,  327. 

,  ....  and  convent  of,  481. 

Bodrygan,  Otto  de,  260. 
Boerleye,  John  de,  knight,  490. 

\    Cf.  Burleye. 

Bogham.    See  Buchan. 

Bogheweye.    See  Boohay. 

Bohxm,  Cicely  wife  of  John  de,  415. 

,  Edward  son  of  John  de,  437. 

,  Eva  daugliter  of  John  de, 

427. 

,    Humphrey    de,    cousin    of 

Humphrey  earl  of  Hereford, 
139,  256. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  earl  of  Hereford,  123, 

134,  139,  256,  319,  497. 

,  .  .  .  . , and  Essex,  295. 

,    ,  lord  of  Breck- 
nock, 371. 

,  Isabel  wife  of  John  de,  427. 

,  Joan  (de  Lysle)  daughter  of 

John  de,  427. 

,  John  de,  of  Midhurst,  211, 

415,  427,  436,  437. 

,  Philippa  wife  of  Edward  son 

of  John  de,  436,  437. 
Boilly,  John,  188. 

Bokebrvigge,  William  de,  clerk,  16L 
Bokeland.    See  Bocland. 
Bokelond.    See  Buckland. 
Bokenham.    See  Buckenham. 
Bokenham,    Bukenham,    Simon   de, 
488. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    deputy   collector   of 

customs  at  Ipswich,  422. 

Cf.  Buckyngham. 

Bokeshull.    See  Buckeshull. 
Bokesworth.    See  Boxworth. 
Bokesworth,  Henry  de,  165. 
Boklonde.    See  Buckland. 
Bokyngham.    See  Buckyngham. 
Bolbury,  Great,  Boltebury  [in  Mal- 
borough],   CO.  Devon,  manor 
of,  436. 
Bole  [co.  Nottingham],  434. 
Bole.  SeeBolle. 
Bolevaune.    See  Bulphan. 
BoUe,     Bole,     Christina     wife     of 
Richard,  165. 

,  John  de,  of  Lincolnshire,  380. 

,  ....  son  of  Richard,  165. 

,  Richard,  165. 

,  Walter,  462. 

,  .  . .  . ,  chaplain,  312. 

See  Belle. 

BoUesore,  Richard  de,  master  of 
Trinity  hospital  without 
Northampton,  364. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


523 


Bolneye,  Peter  do,  22,  23. 
Boloigne,   Guillelina,   Gylymote   de, 
damsel  of  the  countess  mar- 
shal, 281. 
Bolour,  Robert,  469. 
Boltebury.    See  Bolbury. 
Bolteston,       Sibyl       daughter       of 
Christiana  daughter  of  Wil- 
liam son  of  Alan  de,  240. 

,   William    son    of  Alan    de, 

240. 
Bolton,   Little  [in   Bolton-le-Moors, 

CO.  Lancaster],  474. 
Bolton,  John  de,  parson  of  Lythe, 

288. 
Bolum,  CO.  Northumberland,  Bolsay, 

I3elsowe  in,  426. 
Bolyngton,  John,  197. 
Bonby,  Bondeby  [co.  Lincoln],  425. 
Bond    Burstwick,    Bondebrustewyk 
[in  Burstwick],  co.  York,  315. 
Bonde     {or    Nettleton),     John     of, 

Yeovilton,  43. 
Bondebrustewyk.     See  Bond  Burst- 
wick. 
Bondeby.    See  Bonby. 
Boneaventure,  John,  398. 
Bonehunt.     See  Wicken  Bonhunt. 
Boneville,  Wilham,  175. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Somerest,  273. 

Cf.  Bovyle. 

Boneyate.    See  Boyat. 
Bonham,  Nicholas,  193. 

,  ....  de,  knight  of   the  shire 

of  Wilts,  273. 
Bonrepos  abbey  [in  Saint  Gelven, 
dep.     C6tes-du-Nord],     Brit- 
tany, abbot  and  convent  of, 
47,  67. 
Bonyngton,  Richard  de,  60. 
Bonynton,  Thomas  de,  373. 
Boohay,      Bogheweye      [parish      of 
Brixham],  co.  Devon,   163. 

,  deed  dated  at,  163. 

books  named,  409. 

,  purchase  of,  259. 

Boothby,  Botheby  [co.  Lincoln],  28, 

229. 
Borboim.    See  Bourbon. 
Bordeaux,  Bovu-deaux,  constable  of, 
128.     See  also  Farle,  William 
de. 

,  port  of,  458. 

,  wine  from,  226. 

Boreham,  Borham  [co.  Essex],  293. 
Borescombe.    See  Boscombe. 
Boreyate,  Maud  wife  of  John  de,  162. 
Borham.    See  Boreham. 
Boriswerthe,  Richard  de,  42. 


Borley,  Borle  [co.  Essex],  manor  of, 

131. 
Boroughbridge,      Burghbrigge,     co. 

York,  Norton  by,  421. 
Borstall.   See  Boarsall. 
Borstowe.    See  Burstow,  Burstowe. 
Boscombe,  Borescombe,   co.    Wilts, 
50. 

,  advowson  of,  44. 

,  deed  dated  at,  44. 

,  manor  of,  44. 

Bosegrove.    See  Boxgrave. 
Bosenham,  Isolda  (de  Novo  Castro) 
wife  of  Thomas  son  of  Gilbert 
de,  269. 

,  Thomas  son  of  Gilbert  de, 

269. 
Bosoun,  Alice  wife  of  Thomas,  447. 

,  Henry  son  of  Alice,  447. 

Cf.  Bozon. 

Bosse,  Thomas,  164. 

Cf.  Boce. 

Bosshel,  Richard,  170. 
Boston,    St.    Botholf,    St.    Botolph, 
St.  Botulph,  CO.  Lincoln,  93, 
322. 

,  bailiffs  of,  52,  91,  137,  206, 

371. 

,    collectors    of    customs    in, 

customers  of,  40,  52,  95,  116, 
137.  See  also  Aubrey, 
Thomas  ;  Tilneye,  Frederick 
de. 

,  port  of,  318. 

Botclaydon.         See      Claydon      St. 

Botolph. 
Boteler,     Botiller,     Alan     son     of 
Thomas  le,  324. 

,  Amaury  le,  490. 

,  James  le,  earl  of  Ormond,  43, 

146,  396. 

,  .  . .  . ,   guardian    of  Ireland, 

63. 

,  Joan,  wife  of  William    son 

of  William  le,  of  Hardmead, 
99,  152. 

,  John,  43. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Southampton,  273. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Leyburn,  212. 

,  John  le,  knight,  274. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Lancaster,  273. 

, ,  of  Marton,  297. 

,   Nicholas,   spicer,   of  York- 
shire, 324,  382. 

,  Robert,  45,  159,  160. 

,  Stephen,  372. 

,  Thomas,  186. 

le,  324. 


524 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Boteler — cont. 

,  Vincent  le,  372. 

,  William  le,  baron  of  Wem, 

324. 
,    ....   son  of  William  le,  of 

Hardmead,  99,  152. 
Botelesford.    See  Bottesford. 
Bothe,  Thomas  de,  473. 
Botheby.     See  Boothby. 
Botheby,  John  de,  clerk  of  chancery, 

296. 
Botiller.    See  Boteler. 
Botindon,  Botingdon.    See  Bodding- 

ton. 
Botitourt,  John  de,  knight,  186. 
Botolph      Bridge,      Botulvesbrugge 

[parish  of  Orton  Longueville], 

CO.  Huntingdon,manor  of,229. 
Botriaux,  William  son  of  William  de, 

22. 
Bottesford,  Botelesford,  co.  I.eices- 

ter,  267. 
,  parson  of.     See  Codyngton, 

Henry  de. 
Bottisham,   Bodekesham  [co.   Cam- 
bridge], 77. 

,  deed  dated  at,  77. 

,  messuages  named  in,  77. 

Botton  by  Sutton  Valencies.      See 

Boughton  Malherbe. 
Botulphispyrie.    See  Buttsbury. 
Botulvesbrugge.         See        Botolph 

Bridge. 
Bot\\Tyghte,    Roger,    of   Southerey, 

385. 
Boty,  Robert,  195. 
Boudon,  William  de,  chaplain,  82. 
Bouedon,     Bouedoune,     Boueidone, 

John  son  of  Sir  John  de,  466. 
Boughton,   Bukton,   co.   Northamp- 
ton, overcharge  of  pasture  in, 

364. 
Alulph,     Bocton,      Bocton 

Alulphi,  Boughton,  Boutton, 

CO.  Kent,  300. 

,  manor  of.  196,  198,  301. 

,  Bowlev,  Buggeleye  in, 

495. 
Malherbe,  Bocton  Malherbe, 

Botton  by  Sutton  Valencies, 

CO.  Kent,  fee  in,  495. 

,  manor  of,  214. 

Boulewas.    See  Buildwas. 
Boulewas,  John  de,  knight,  13,  14. 

,  John  son  of  John  de,  13,  14. 

,  Parnell  wife  of  John  de,  1 3, 

287. 
Bovilogne,  honour  of,  411. 
Boultham,    Bultham    [co.    Lincoln], 

Thomas  parson  of,  434. 


Bourbon,   Borboiui,   duke   of.      See 

Lewis  II. 
Bourcher.    See  Bourgcher. 
Bourdeaux.    See  Bordeaux. 
Boure,  John  atte,  188. 

,  Thomas  do  la,  372,  373. 

Bouresyard,    Alexander,    parson    of 

Barsham,  279. 
Bourgcher,    Bourcher,    Bourghcher, 

Bourghchier,  John  de,  knight, 

43,  200. 

,  WiUiam,  knight,  461,  463. 

Boxurgh.   <See  Burgh. 

Bourghcher,        Bourghchier.        See 

Bourgcher. 
Bourhunt.    See  Boarhunt. 
Bourhunte,  John  de,  knight,  406. 
,  Marearet,  wife  of  William 

Daumvers,  278,  279. 
Bourn,  Brune,  co.  Cambridge,  manor 

of,  260. 
Bourne.    See  Eastbourne. 
Bourne,      Elizabeth      daughter      of 

Nicholas  de,  knight,  377,  378. 

,  Nicholas  do,  knight,  378. 

,     Robert      de,      parson     of 

Freckenham,  84. 

Cf.  Brunne. 

Bourton.    See  Black  Bourton. 
Bourton,  Robert  de,  parson  of  Wick- 
ham  and  warden  of  chantry 

in  Layer  Marney  chmrch,  207. 

C/.  Burton. 

Boutton.  See  Boughton  Alvilph. 
Bovey,      North,      Northbovy,      co. 

Devon,  manor  of,  27. 
Bovy,  John,  the  elder,  413. 

. . ,  the  younger,  413. 

Bovyle,  Maud  wife  of  John,  501. 

Cf.  Boneville,  Boyville. 

Bowley,    Buggeleye    by    Maidestan 

[in    Boughton    Alulph],    co. 

Kent,  fee  in,  495. 
bows  and  arrows,  49. 

,  carriage  of,  29. 

for  defence  of  ship,  361,  362. 

,  prohibition  of  export  of,  370. 

Bowyere,  Richard,  92. 

Box,  la  Boxe,  co.  Wilts,  manor  of, 

321,  405. 
Box,  W^alter,  of  Kingston-upon-HuU, 

368. 
,  William,  citizen  of  London, 

490. 
Boxfeld,  William  de,  375. 
Boxford,    CO.  Suffolk,  270,  277,  389. 
Boxgrave,    Bosegrove   [co.    Sussex], 

prior  of,  446. 
Boxley,    Boxle,    Boxlee,    co.    Kent, 

Cosington  in,  65. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


525 


Boxworth,  Bokesworth  [co.  Cam- 
bridge], Ainory  parson  of,  (59. 

Boyat,  Boneyato  [i)ari.sh  of  Otter- 
bournoj,  co.  Hants,  4i,  51. 

Boylham.  See  Baylhani. 

Boynton,  Robert,  431. 

Boys,  Guy  de,  sheriff  of  p]ssox  and 
Hertfordshire,   152. 

,  John,  172. 

, of  Duninow,  139. 

,  ....  de,  kniglit,  86. 

,  ....  son  of  John,  217. 

,  Roger,   172, 

,  William,  clerk,  480. 

Cf.  Wode, 

Boythorpe,  co.  York,  manor  of,  345. 

Boyton,  co.  Wilts,  manor  and 
advowson  of,  9. 

Boyville,  WilUara,  clerk,  300. 

Cf.  Bovyle. 

Bozon,  Bozoun,  Alexander,  387. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and  jvistico  of  oyer  and 
terminer  in  Bedfordshire,  467. 

Cf.  Bosoun. 

Braban,  John,  king's  yeoman,  keeper 
of  the  king's  mews,  139. 

Brabant,  130. 

,  duke  of.     See  Lewis. 

Bracebrugge,  John  do,  knight,   161. 

,  Ralph  de,  knight,  162. 

Bracklev,  Brakkele  [co.  Northamp- 
ton], 37. 

Bracy,  Robert,  knight  of  the  shire 
of  Worcester,  168,  273. 

Bradefeld.    See  Bradfield,  Bredfield. 

Bradelegh.      See  Bradley. 

Braden,  Bradene,  Bradenne  forest, 
CO.  Wilts,  regard  of,  56. 

,  verderers  of,  named,  10. 

Bradenham,  West,  Westbradenham, 
CO.  Norfolk,  289. 

Bradenham,  Leo  de,  43. 

,  Lionel,  Lyonet  de,  156,  157, 

163,  171,  463. 

Bradenne.   See  Braden. 

Bradenstoke  priory  [co.  Wilts], 
brother  Geoffrey,  prior  of,  176. 

,  convent  of,  176. 

Bradeston,  Bradestan,  Agnes  ladv 
of,  471,  472.  474. 

,  ....  wife  of  Thomas  de,  432. 

Bradewell,  Thomas  de,  knight,  60. 

Bradfield,  Bradefeld,  co.  Berks, 
manor  of,  40. 

Bradefeld  [parish  of  Eccles- 

field],  CO.  York,  mill  in,  147. 

,  soke  of,  147. 

Bradford  [in  Manchester,  co.  Lan- 
caster], 474. 


Bradle,   John   de,   parson   of  Whit- 

clum;li,  203. 
Bradley,      North,     Bradehigh     [co. 

Wilts]  vicar  of.   See  Spacy, 

John. 
Braham,     .lohn      de,     knight,      91, 

163. 
Braisiero,  John,  391. 

Cf.  Brasyeter. 

Brakkele.     See  Brackley. 
Brakton,   Roger  de,   of  West  Coat- 
ham,  285. 
Brambcle.    See  Bromley. 
Bramber,  Brembre  [co.  Sussex],  lord 

of.    See  Mowbray,  John  de. 
Bramdean,    Broinden    [co.    Hants], 

406. 
Bramford,    Braunford,    co.    Suffolk, 

340. 
Brampton    [in    Ditton],    co.    Kent, 

manor  of,  300,  305. 
Brampton,  John  de,  clerk,  60,  241, 

297. 
Brandon,  Thomas  de,  citizen  of  Lon- 
don, 408. 

,  Walter  de,  313. 

Brankescombe,  John  de,  400. 
,    Richard   de,    the   vounger, 

400. 
Brankeston,  Roger  son  of  Adam  de, 

195. 
Branketre,  John  de,  459. 
,   . .  .  . ,  canon  of  St.  Peter's, 

York,  155,  201, 

, ,  clerk,  155,  241. 

,..••,  treasurer  of  St.  Peter's, 

York,  80,  155,  201,  276. 
,     Richard     de,     parson     of 

Broughton,    80. 
,  Thomas,  rector  of  St.  Alban, 

Wood  Street,  192. 
Brantingham,      Brantyngham,      co. 

York,    assignment  of    dower 

in,  287. 

,  church  of,  287. 

,  manor  of,  307. 

,  mill  in,  287. 

,  places  named  in,  287. 

Brantj'^ngham,   Ralph  de,  chamVjer- 

lain  of  the  exchequer  of  the 

earldom   of    Albemarle,    114, 

118,   120. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  dismissal  of,  124, 

125. 

,  Tliomas  de,  clerk,  92. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  king's  clerk,  cofferer  of 

the  household,  231. 
,     .  .  .  . ,    treasurer    of 

Calais,  9,  37,  111. 
Brass,  Roger,  neif,  286. 


626 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Brasyeter,  Agnes  daughter  of 
Deonysia  wife  of  Robert,  366. 

,    Deonysia  wife   of   Robert, 

366. 

Cf.  Braisiere. 

Bratton  Seymour,  Brocton,  co. 
Somerset,  217. 

Braunche,  John,  378. 

Braundeston.    See  Braunston. 

Braunfeld,  Joan  wife  of  John  de, 
154. 

,  Thomas  son  of  John  de,  1.54. 

Braunford.   See  Bramford. 

Braunsby,  Thomas,  471. 

Braunston,  Braundeston  [co.  North- 
ampton], 267. 

Bray,  John,  of  Middlesex,  61. 

,    usher   of   the   king's 

receipt,  of  the  receipt  of  the 
exchequer,  129,  130,  131. 

Braybrok,  Nicholas  de,  477. 

,  William  de,  477. 

Braybrook,  Braybroke  [co.  North- 
ampton], 472. 

Brayes,  Agnes,  45. 

Braylesford,  Henry  de,  knight  of 
the  shire  of  Derby,  169. 

Bravnton,  John  de,  of  Tilsworth, 
394. 

bread,  kinds  of,  171,  172. 

and  ale,  amends  of,  133. 

,  assize  of,  302. 

Breane,  Breen,  co.  Somerset,  manor 
of,   460. 

breastplates,  441,  444. 

Breaux,  John  de,  knight,  420. 

Cf.  Brewes. 

Brecknock,  Breghenok,  Wales,  lord 
of.   See  Bohun,  Humphrey  de. 

Brecon,  Brechon  [co.  Brecknock], 
Brother  John,  prior  of  St. 
John  the  Evangelist,  173. 

Brede,  John  le,  269. 

Bredecote.   See  Burcott. 

Bredeport.    See  Brideport. 

Bredfield,  Bradefeld  [co.  Suffolk], 
manor  of,  329. 

Breen.    See  Breane. 

Bregham,  John  de,  213. 

Breghenok.    See  Brecknock. 

Brehull.    See  Brill. 

Brembre.    See  Bramber. 

Brenchley,   Brencheslee  [co.   Kent], 

163. 
,  deed  dated  at,  163. 

Brende  Wemham.     See  Wenham. 

Brendewode,  la  Brendwode.  See 
Brentwood. 

Brenewodo.    See  Bernwood. 

Brenlyf,  Lawrence  de,  knight,  178. 


Brennand,  Richard,  83. 

Brent,  Ehzabeth,  329. 

Brent  Eleigh,  Brent  Illeghe,  Illeye 
[CO.  Suffolk],  235.  "" 

,  manor  of,  186. 

Brentwood,  Brendewode,  la  Brend- 
wode, CO.  Essex,  277,  278, 
392. 

Breouse.   See  Brewes. 

Brerely,  William  de,  of  Yorkshire, 
274. 

Brerlay,  Hugh,  383. 

Bressing'.    See  Brushing. 

Bret,  Brett,  Joan  wife  of  John, 
314. 

John,  394. 

, ,  knight,  313,  314. 

,  Thomas,  of  West  Ham,  92. 

, le,  500. 

Bretenham,  Brethenliam,  Clement 
de,  163,  343. 

Brcteuille,  William,  60. 

Bretewell,  John,  400. 

Bretfarton.  See  Bretforton. 

Bretford,  Briddeford,  William,  Wil- 
liam de,  searcher  of  forfei- 
tures in  London,  420,  441, 
444. 

Bretforton,  Bretfarton  [co.  Worces- 
ter], 71,  170. 

Bretheby,  Brethey  [hundred  of 
Pyder],  co.   Cornwall,    166. 

Brethenham.  See  Bretenham, 
Brettenham. 

Brethey.    See  Bretheby. 

Breton,  Bretoun,  Henry,  378. 

,  John,  shipmaster,  442. 

,  LawTence,  496,  497. 

,  Peter,  87,  88. 

Bretons,  Bretonnesland  in  Haver- 
ing, CO.  Essex,  464. 

Bretoun.    *See  Breton. 

Brett.    »See  Bret. 

Brettenham,  Brethenham,  co.  Nor- 
folk, fee  in,  497. 

Bretton,  John  de,  83,  474. 

Breule,  Lawrence  de,  knight,  52. 

Brewe,  Thomas,  469. 

Brewes,  Breouse,  Beatrice  wife  of 
Thomas  de,  97,  98,  325,  329, 
355. 

,  Elizabeth  wife  of  John  de, 

325,  329. 

,  Joan  wife  of  John  son    of 

John  de,  97,  98,  492. 

John  de,  97,  98,  355. 

,    ,  knight,  62,  325,  329. 

,  John  son  of  John  de,  97,  98, 

492. 

,  Peter  de,  223. 


GENERAL  TNDEX. 


527 


Brewes — co7it. 

,  Thomas  de,  97,  98,  325,  329, 

355. 

Cf.  Breaux. 

Browodp,  Guiidreda  do,  162. 

Brian,   Bryan,  John,   IGO. 

,  rector  of  Throcking, 

40G. 

,  Peter,  378. 

,  Reynold,  bishop  of  Worces- 
ter, 216. 

See  Briene. 

Brianstan.    See  Bryanston. 

Bricc,  Richard,  469. 

Brickies,  Brykles,  William,  488,  500. 

,   . .  .  .,  merchant  of  London, 

467. 

,    . .  .  . ,  pepperer  of  London, 

459. 

Briddeford.    See  Bretford. 

Briddeshale,  Gilbert  de,  402. 

Brideport,  Bredeport,  Brudeport, 
Brydport,  Sibyl  wife  of  Wil- 
liam de,  459. 

Thomas  de,  164,  389. 

, ,  of  Dorset,  279. 

,  William  de,  459. 

Bridgford,  Briggeford,  co.  Notting- 
ham, parson  of.  See  Stanford, 
John  de. 

Bridgwater,  Briggewater,  Brugge- 
water,  Bruggewatre,  co. 
Somerset,  437. 

,  baihffs  of,  91,  137. 

,  burgesses  of,  summoned  to 

parliainont,    481. 

,  customers  etc.  of,  137. 

Bridham.    See  Birdliam. 

Briene,  Brian,  Bryene,  Brj'on, 
Guy  de,  115,  123,  205,  264, 
436,  437. 

, keeper  of  St.  Briavel's 

castle  and  forest  of  Dean,  19. 

,    ....,   knight,   47,    64,    373, 

393,  399,  461,  472,  473. 

Cf.  Brian. 

Brigeham,  John  de,  86. 

Brigenhale.     See  Brignall. 

Brigge,  Bruges,  Brugge,  Brugges, 
John  atte,  clerk,  209. 

,   Peter,   Peter  de,   333,    334, 

406,  485,  486. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Southampton,    273,    481. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  sheriff  of  co.   South- 
ampton, 486. 
,  William  atte,  of  Rushton,  127. 

Briggeford.    See  Bridgford. 

Briggewater.     See  Bridgwater. 

Brighous,  Richard,  of  Yorkshire,  88. 


Brightelogli,  Bryghtlee,  William  de, 
81.' 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Devon,   168. 
Brighthamj)ton  [parish  of  Bampton], 

CO.  Oxford,  44,  45. 
Brightlede,  William,  of  Denver,  385. 
Brightwell,  Richard,  of  Cambridge- 
shire, 465. 

Brignall,  Brigenhale  [co.  York], 
manor  of,   192. 

Brikelesworth.    See  Brixworth. 

Brikelesworth,  John,  citizen  of  Lon- 
don, 208. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  sheriff  of  London,  212. 

Brill,  Brehull,  co.  Buckingham,  229. 

,  manor  of,  230. 

,   Clearfields,    Claresplace    in, 

230. 

Brimington,  co.  Derby,  Inkersell, 
Hynkerhull  in,  314. 

Brimpton.  Brompton,  co.  Somerset, 
chapel  of  St.  Mary,  172. 

,  manor  of,  172. 

Brington,  Bryngton  [co.  Hunting- 
don], parson  of.  See  Bj-^dik, 
Richard  de. 

,    Brinkton,    Brynghton,    co. 

Northampton,  manor  of,  343, 
346. 

Brinkworth,  Brynkworth,  co.  Wilts, 
parson  of.  Sec  Hatheleseye, 
Richard. 

Brisele,    Sec  Brusele. 

Bristol,  44,  154. 

,  abbey  of  St.  Augustine,  154. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  abbot  and  convent  of, 

190,  483. 

,  barton  of,  154. 

,  burgess  of,  466. 

castle,   154. 

,  constable  of,  84. 

,  prison  in,  84. 

,  customers  of,  117,  137. 

,  lordship  of,  424. 

,   mayor   and   bailiffs  of,    91, 

137,  146,  255. 

,  merchants  of,  255. 

,  port  of,  255. 

,  ships  of,  146,  255. 

Bristoll,  William  de,  merchant,  441, 
444. 

Britstowe,  Nicholas  de,  mayor  of 
Exeter,  264. 

Brittany,  14. 

,  pirates  of,  103. 

,  the  king's  lieutenant  in.   See 

Buckyngham,  John  de. 

Britwell,  Brutewell  [parish  of  Burn- 
ham,  CO.  Buckingham],  61. 


528 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Brixham,  co.  Devon,  manor  of,  364. 
places  named  in,    74,    163, 

180,  266, 
Brixworth,  Brikelesworth,  co.  North- 
hampton, fee  in,  497. 
Brize  Norton.    See  Norton. 
Broad  Hinton.    See  Hinton. 
Brocas,  Bernard,  knight,  270,  277, 

278,  279,  485. 
,   Isabel  wife   of  Jolin,    277, 

348. 

,  John,  348. 

,    Siinon,   siu'veyor   of   works 

at  Guildford,  430,  432. 
Brocklesby,   co.   Lincoln,  Newsham 

abbey,  Newehoiis  in,  87. 
Brocton.    See  Bratton  Seymour. 
Brodeford  [near  Windsor,  co.  Berks], 

133. 
Brodestrode      [near     Windsor,     co. 

Berks],   133. 
Broghton.  See  Broughton  Gifford. 
Broke,  la.    See  Brook. 
Broke,    Brooke,    Constance   wife   of 

Thomas  atte,  425. 

,  John,  272. 

, dela,  294. 

,  Lawrence,  Lawrence  de,  496. 

,  Richard,  189. 

,  Roger  atte,  69. 

,  Thomas  atte,  425. 

,  William,  163. 

Brokesbourne,  Edmund  de,  91. 
Brokhell.    See  Brokhull. 
Brokhous.    See  Brook  House. 
Brokhull,Brokhell,  John,  knight,  198. 
,  Margaret  wife  of  Thomas  de, 

knight,  199,  200. 

,  Thomas  de,  knight,  200. 

Bromden.  See  Bramdean. 
Bromfeld.  See  Bromfield. 
Bromfelde,  Brunfeld,  Robert  son  of 

William  de,  41. 

,  William  de,  41. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  chaplain,  338. 

Bromfield,  Bromfeld  [co.  Denbigh], 

lord     of.         See     Fitz     Alan, 

Richard. 
Bromham,  co.  Bedford,  435. 
Bromley,  Brambele  [co.  Middlesex], 

53. 
Bromley,  John  de,  174. 
Brompton.    See  Brimpton. 
Bromwych,  Henry  de,  267. 
,  John  de,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Gloucester,  168. 
Brond,  Richard,  391. 
Bronston,  Robert,  of  Ospringe,  294. 
Brook,    la    Broke    [in    Westbury], 

CO.  Wilts,  456,  458. 


Brooke.   See  Broke. 
Brook  House,  Brokhous  [in  Wick- 
ham  Bishops],  CO.  Essex,  388. 
Broomsthorpe,       Brunsthorp,       co. 

Norfolk,  fee  in,  497. 
Brotherton,  Mary  wife  of  Thomas  de, 

earl     marshall,     the     king's 

aunt,  281. 
Broughton,    Berghton    [co.    Hants], 

chm-eh  of,   80. 
,    .  .  .  . ,  parson  of.    See  Bran- 

ketre,  Richard  de. 
[co.  Lincoln],  parson  of.    See 

Daubeneye,     Ralph. 
GifTord,  Broghton,  co.  Wilts, 

manor  of,  342. 
Broun,  le  Brun,  Adam,  195. 

,  Andrew,  388. 

,  John,  of  Lincolnshire,  63. 

, ,  of  London,  290. 

, ,  the  older,  131,  132. 

,  .  .  .  .,  the  younger,  131,  132. 

,    Margery   wife    of   Thomas, 

citizen  of  London,  270. 
,     Richard,     bailiff     of     the 

abbot  of  Glastonbury,  329. 

,  Robert,  170. 

,    .  .  . . ,  burgess  of  Warwick, 

274. 

,  Thomas,  450. 

Cf.  Bruyn . 

Brountz,  Richard,   249. 
Brounyng.     See  Brunyng. 
BrouwershaA'en,    Browershaveno    in 

Seland  [Zeeland],  422. 
Bruche,  Margaret  wife  of  Nicholas 

del,  240. 

,  Nicholas  del,  240. 

Brudemere,  John  de,  184. 
Brudeport.    See  Brideport. 
Bruorn,  Bruera  abbey  [co.  Oxford], 

abbot  of,  445. 
,     .  .  .  . ,    charter    alleged    to 

have  been  erased  by,  492. 

,  John  abbot  of,  61. 

Bruett,  Andrew  atte  Pire  called,  318. 
Bruges,  Flanders,  mercliant  of,  159. 
Bruges,     Brugge,     Brugges.         See 

Brigge. 
Bruggewater,     Bruggewatre.         See 

Bridgwater. 
Brumfeld.    See  Bromfelde. 
Brun.    See  Broun. 
Brunby,     Gerard,     Gerard     de,     of 

York,    coroner   of   co.    York, 

229,  429. 
Brundall,     Brundale,     co.     Norfolk, 

advowson  of,  313. 

,leetat,  313. 

,  manor  of,  313. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


529 


Bnindall — cont. 

,  places  named  in,  313. 

Brundish,    Brundissh,    co.    Suffolk, 

445,  446. 
Brundissh,  Edmund,  300. 

de,  clerk,  445,  44G. 

Brune.   See  Bourn,  Eastburn. 
Brunne,  Margaret  wife  of  John  de, 

17. 

Cf.  Bourne. 

Brunsthorp.     See  Broomsthorpe. 
Brunton,  Burnton  [in  Embleton],  co. 

Northumberland,  426. 
Brunyng,  Brounyng,  John,  164. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  of  Melcombe  Horsey, 

184. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  steward  of  the  abbess 

of  Tarrant  Keynston,   134. 

,  Thomas,   289. 

,  William,  289. 

Brus,  William,  of  Barton  by  York, 

80. 
Brusele,  Brisele,  Brysele,  Henry  de, 

120,  128,  258. 
Brushing,  Bressing'  [in  I^angley],  co. 

Kent,  fee  in,  495. 
Brustowe.     See  Burstow,  Burstowe. 
Brustwyk     in     Holdernesse.         See 

Burstwick. 
Brut,  William,  164. 
Brutewell.     Sec  Britwell. 
Bruton,  John,  271. 
Bruyn,  Nicholas  le,  232. 

,  William,  knight,  207. 

Cf.  Broiin. 

Bruys,  Alana,  Athelina  daughter  of 

Bernard,  366,  464. 

,  Bernard,  of  Thrapston,  366. 

,  David  de,  ransom  of,  235. 

Bryan.    See  Brian. 

Bryanston,    Brianston,    co.    Dorset, 

deed  dated  at,  275. 
,    manor    and    advowson    of, 

275. 
Brj'dlj'^ng.    See  Berling. 
Brydport.    See  Brideport. 
Bryene.    See  Brian. 
Bryghtlee.    See  Brightelegh. 
Brykles.    See  Brickies. 
Brynge,  William,  398. 
Brynghton,  Bryngton.  SecBrington. 
Brynkworth.    See  Brinkworth. 
Bryon.    See  Briene. 
Brysele.   See  Brusele. 
Brysyngham,  John,  469. 
Bubwith,  Bubwyth,  co.  York,  church 

of,  328,  329. 
Buchan,    Bogham    [Aberdeensiiire], 

coimtess  of.     See  Bello  Monte, 

Alice  de. 


Buckden,  Bukden,  co.  York,  438. 

Buckenham,  Bokcnham,  co.  Norfolk, 
228. 

Old,    Old    Bokenham,    co. 

Norfolk,  manor  of,  439. 

Buckeshull,  Bokeshuil,  Bukcshull, 
Buxhull,  Alan  de,  425. 

,      .  .  .  . ,     constable     of     the 

Tower  of  London,  240,  241, 
258,  259,  298,  336,  377,  429, 
465. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  keeper  of  Clarendon 

forest,  415. 

, ,  knight,  178,  275. 

buckhounds,  the  king's,  278. 

Buckingham,  Bukyngham,  co.  Buck- 
ingham, 269. 

,     bailiff    of.        See     Seman, 

William. 

,  the  east  street  of,  269. 

Buckingham,  Bukingham,  county  of, 
60,  77,  172,  174,  261,  297, 
365,  393,  464,  465,  488. 

,  escheator  in.     See  Olneye, 

John  ;  Otteford,  William  de  ; 
Styuecle,  Nicholas  de. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  168, 

273,  480. 

,  service  of  destroying  vermin 

in,  412,  426. 

,  sheriff  of,  10,  141,  142,  470, 

476. 

Buckland,  Boklonde,  co.  Berks,  396. 

St.  Mary,  Seinte  Marie  Boke- 

lond  [co.  Somerset],  47. 

Buckyngham,  Bokyngham,  Bukyng- 
ham, John  de,  bishop  of 
Lincoln,  227,  228,  380,  414, 
434. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  the  king's  lieu- 
tenant in  Brittany,  145. 

,  Roger  de,  92. 

Cf.  Bokenham. 

Buddele.    See  Bodley. 

Budelle.    See  Bedulle. 

Buelt.    See  Builth. 

Buffry.  Thomas,  215. 

Bugbrooke,  Bukebroke,  co.  North- 
ampton, 434. 

Buggeleye  by  Maidestan.  See  Bow- 
ley. 

Bugh'brigge,  William  de,  clerk,  191. 

Buildwas,  Boulewas  [co.  Salop], 
manor  of,  13,  14. 

Builth,  Buelt  [co.  Brecon],  keeper 
of  lordship  of,  371. 

Bukden.    See  Buckden. 

Bukebroke.     See  Bugbrooke. 

Bukenham.    See  Bokenham. 

BukeshuU.    See  Buckeshull. 

E  34 


530 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Bukingham.    See  Buckingham. 
Bukton.    See  Bitton,  Boughton. 
Bukyngham.       See       Buckingham, 

Buckyngham. 
Bule,  John,  272. 

,  Nicholas,  272. 

Bullok,  Robert,  208. 

Bulmer,  co.  York,  manor  of,  345. 

Bulmere,  Margaret  wife  of  Ralph, 

345,  346. 

,  Ralph,  346. 

, de,  418. 

,  ....  son  of  Ralph  de,  418. 

Bulphan,  Bolevaune,  co.  Essex,  205. 
Bultham.    See  Boultham. 
Bumpstead      Helion,      Bumpstede, 

Bumstedhelion,     co.     Essex, 

114,    268. 
Bumpstede,  Peter  de,  88. 
Bumstedhelion.         See    Bumpstead 

Helion. 
Bunshill,  BunshuU  [in  Bishopstone, 

CO.  Hereford],  281. 
Buntyng.  William,  475,  476. 
Burbanh,  Richard  de,   161. 
Burcott,  Bredecote  [co.  Oxford],  192. 
Burdet,  John,  274. 

,  Robert,  knight,  256. 

,  ....  son  of  Robert,  256. 

Burdeux,  Oliver  do,  336. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    keeper   of   lands   of. 

See  Wj'keham,  William  de. 
Burdon,  Edmund,  96. 

,  John  son  of  Edmvmd,  96. 

Burdv,  Hugh,  coroner  for  Norfolk, 

'  30. 
Burefeld.    See  Burghfield. 
Burel,  John,  166,  173. 
Bures  St.  Mary  [co.  Suffolk],  manor 

of,    186. 
Bures,  Alice  mother  of  Robert  de, 

knight,   186. 

,  Andrew,  496. 

, de,  101. 

,    Joan    wife    of    Robert    de, 

knight,  186. 

,  John  de,  54,  161. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  merchant  of  London, 

420. 
,  Katherine  wife  of    Andrew 

de,  101. 

,  Michael  de,  279. 

,  R.obert  de,  knight,  186. 

,     ....     son    of    Andrew    de, 

knight,   186. 
Burewell,  John,  184. 
Burford,  James  de,  knight,  93. 
Burgate,         Upper,         Overburgate 

[parish  of  Fordingbridge],  co. 

Hants,  22. 


Burgh,  Bourgh  [co.  Suffolk],  329. 

See  Barrow. 

Burgh,  Bom'gh,  John,  knight,   383. 
de,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Westmoreland,  169. 
,  Simon,  Simon  de,  408,  458, 

489    491. 

,  William  de,  43,  295. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  clerk,  43. 

Burgham,  John,   173. 
Biu-ghbrigge.    See  Boroughbridge. 
Bvirghefeld.     See  Burghfield. 
Burgherssh.   See  Burwash. 
Burgherssh,   Bartholomew  de,   403. 
,     .  .  .  . ,    arrayer    of    nuen-at- 

arms  in  Kent,  325. 
,   ,  knight,  42,  179,  196, 

198. 

,  John  de,  knight,  302. 

,  ....  son  of  John  do,  330. 

, ,  tenant  in  chief, 

259,  260. 
,  Maud  (de  Kerdeston)  wife 

of  John  de,  260,  260n. 
Burghfield,      Burefeld,      Burghefeld 

[co.  Berks],  208. 

,  Vyneye  meadow  in,  107. 

Burghill   [co.  Hereford],  Tillington, 

Tulynton  in,  176. 
Burghton,  Edmund  de,  296. 
Burghwell.    See  Burwell. 
Burleye,  Burle.  John  de,  knight,  13, 

287,  294,  400. 

,  Robert  de,  461. 

Cf.  Boerleye. 

Burmyngham.    See  Bermyngeham. 
Burneby,  Agnes  daughter  of  Eustace 

son  of  Nicholas  de,  336. 
,     Nicholas     de,     tenant     in 

chief,  336. 
Burnel,  Alina  wife  of  Edward,  338. 

,  Edward,  338. 

,  Nicholas,  knight,  129. 

Burnham  [co.  Buckingham],  61,  86. 

,  ....  deed  dated  at,  61. 

,  CO.  Somerset,  manor  of,  460. 

[co.  Somerset  ?],  56,  165. 

,  East,  Estburnham  [in  Burn- 
ham,  CO.  Buckingham],  61. 
on  Crouch,  Burnham,  Burn- 
ham  Ware,  Burnhamware  [co. 

Essex],  222. 

,  bailiffs  of,  222. 

,  fishery  of  weirs  of,  172. 

Burnham,     Andrew     de,     vicar     of 

Sonning,  385. 
Burnton.    See  Briinton. 
Burstall.    See  Birstall. 
Burstall,    William    de,    clerk,    206, 

293. 


CENERAL  INDEX. 


631 


Burstelor,  Robert,  knight,  of  Cam- 

bridgcshiro,   208. 
Burstewyk.    Sec  Burstwick. 
Burstow,    Borstowe,    Brustowe,    co. 

Surrey,  188,  271. 

,  manor  of,  271. 

Burstowe,       Borstowe,       Brustowe, 

Richard,    Richard    de,     178, 

188,  271,  453. 
Burstwick,  Burstewyk,  Brnstwyk  in 

Holderness,  co.   York,  manor 

of,  246,  315. 
,  Bond  Burstwick  and  LcUoy 

Dyke  in,  315. 
,  Ridgmont  and  Skeckling  in, 

307. 
Burton  by  Hoge  Norton.    See  Black 

Bourton. 
Goggles,  Birton,  co.  Lincoln, 

manor  of,  427. 
Grove  [in  Highworth]  ?  Ber- 

ton,  Wilts,  fee  in,  497. 
I^atimer,  Burton,  co.  North- 
ampton, 220. 

,  church  of,  375. 

Pidsea,    Pridese,    co.    York, 

315. 
Burton,  Henry  de,  48. 

,  .  .  .  .,  clerk,  195. 

,    Isabel   (Faucomberge)  wife 

of  Roger  de,  knight,  57. 
,  John  de,  chandler  of  London, 

489. 
,  Mariota  daughter  of  Robert 

son  of  Gregory  de,  7. 

,  Robert  de,  of  Holderness,  12. 

,  Walter  de,  173. 

,  William  de,  7. 

,  .  .  .  . ,     citizen    of     London, 

269. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  goldsmith  of  London, 

54. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  knight,  verderer  of  the 

forest  of  Rutland,  360. 

Cf.  Bovu'ton. 

Burtonwood,    Burtonheved    [parish 

of  Warrington,  co.  Lancaster], 

68. 
Burwash,  Burgherssh,  [co.   Sussex], 

deed  dated  at,  178. 

,  manor  of,  1 78,  179,  196,  198. 

Burwell,  Burghwell,  co.  Cambridge, 

225. 

,  manor  of,  343. 

Bu^5^  Adam  de,  160,  161,  362. 
,    .  .  .  . ,    bnrgess    of    London, 

401. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  mayor  of,  and  eschea- 

tor  in  London,  82,   142,   173, 

192,  212. 


Bury — cont. 

,    Alice  w  ife  of  William  de, 

161. 
,  Nicliolas  servant  of  William 

de,  fislier,  57. 

,  Wilham  de,  160. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  citi/en  and  draper  of 

liOndon,   161. 
Bury     St.     p]dmunds.     Bury,     St. 

Edmund,     CO.     Suffolk,     279, 

281,   484. 

,  abbey  of,  72. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  abbot  of,  496. 

,  assizes  taken  at,  224,  317. 

Bushey,   Little,    Little   Bisshey,   co. 

Hertford,  314. 
Bussh,  John,  chaplain,  475. 
Busshepcstrowe.    See  Bishopstrow. 
Busshy,     William,     knight     of     the 

shire  of  Lincoln,  480. 
Butler.    See  Boteler. 
Buttebergh.    See  Bidborough. 
Butterwyke,  John  de,  189,  386. 
Buttsbury,        Botvilphispyrie,        co. 

Essex,         Blunts,         Gynge, 

Gynghejoyberdlaundre         in, 

174,  388. 
BuxhuU.    See  Buckeshull. 
Buyres,  John  de,  draper  of  London, 

100. 
Bydik,  John,  269. 
,     Richard     de,     parson     of 

Brington,   393. 
Bydon.    See  Bedon. 
Byfield,    Byfeld,    co.    Northampton, 

342. 

,  church  of,  342. 

Bygenet,  Thomas,  475,  476. 
Bygot,  Bigott,  John,  431,  432. 

,  .  .\  . ,  knight,  295. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    ....    of  the  shire  of 

York    273. 
Byk,  John,  of  Shelf ord,  419. 
BykenoUe,    See  BincknoU. 
Bykenore.    See  Bikenore. 
Byland     abbey     [in     Coxwold,     co. 

York],  abbot  of,  328. 

,  ....  and  convent  of,  329. 

Byngelay.    See  Bingley. 
Byngham,  Katherine  de,  184. 
Bynorth,  Thomas,  396. 
Bvntre,     Thomas     de,     coroner     of 

Norfolk,   10. 
Byre.    See  Bere,  Bere  Regis. 
Byriton,  Thomas  de,  of  Shrewsbury, 

the  elder,  366,  367. 
Byry.    See  Berry  Pomeroy. 
Bj'telesgate.     See  Bitlesgate. 
Bythams  Castle,  Bitham,  co.  Lincoln, 

castle  and  manor  of,  427. 


532 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


C 

Cachepole,  Henry,  citizen  of  Hero- 
ford,  274. 
Caddington,  Cadyngton,  co.  Bedford, 

350. 
Cade,  William,  501. 
Cadishead,        Cadwalysheved        [in 

Eccles,  CO.  Lancaster],  474. 
Cadyngton.    See  Caddington. 
Caen  [Normandy],  abbess  of,  lady  of 

Minchinliampton,   19. 
Caidge,  Cage  [in  Soiithminster],  co. 

Essex,  manor  of,  469. 
Caistor  [co.  Lincoln],  Clixby  in,  88. 
Cakehowe,  Walter  de,  81. 
Cakeraynus,  Anthony,  290. 
,  Martin  brother  of  Anthony, 

290. 
Cakestone  in  Great  Maplestead  and 

Castle       Hedingham.         See 

Caxtons. 
Calaber,  John,  of  Stoke,  267. 
Calais,  Caleys,  8,  25,  26,  29,  95,  104, 

111,  236,  257,  258,  288,  292, 

322,  376,  457. 

,  aldermen  of,  4,  179. 

,  balances  for  weighing  wool 

in,  4,  112. 

,  castle  of,  9. 

,  constables  of  the  staple  at. 

See    Frost,    John ;     Philipot, 

John. 
,  governor  of.    See  Lescrope, 

Henry. 
,  keeper  of  victuals  at.     See 

Middelton,  John  de. 
,  mayor  of,  4.     See  also  Pres- 
ton, Richard  de. 
,   ....   and  merchants  of  the 

staple  at,  111. 
,   merchants   of,   in   London, 

257. 

,  port  of,  247,  363. 

,  repair  of,  37. 

,   searchers  of  forfeitures  in. 

See  Bisshopeston,  John  ;  Fre- 

man,  William  ;  Norffolk,  John 

de  ;     Philipot,  John. 
,  treasurer  of.    See  Brantyng- 

hain,  Thomas  de  ;  Eccleshale, 

Richard  de. 


Calais,  treasiirer  of — cont. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  controller  of.  See  Les- 
crope, Henry. 
Calale.    See  Calow. 
Caldecote,    parish    of    Coleshill,    co. 

Berks,  165. 
Caldewell.    See  Caldwell. 
Caldewell,    Robert   de,  king's  clerk, 

167,  389. 
Caldicote,    Lower,   Nethercaldecote 

by    Bikeleswade    [parish    of 

Northill],    CO.  Bedford,  deed 

dated  at,  387. 

,  manor  of,  386. 

Caldwell,    Caldewell,    co.    Bedford, 

priory    of,     presentation     of 

canon  in,  435. 
Caleston.    See  Calstone,  Wellington. 
Calewe,  John,  72. 
Caleys.    See  Calais. 
Callan,  Kalian,  co.  Kilkenny,  advow- 

son  of,  425. 

,  Iraght  bv,  425. 

,  Hill  of,  425. 

,  lord  of.     See  Clare,  Gilbert 

de. 
Calmescote,      Walter,      parson      of 

Chesilborne,  399,  402. 
Calouhill,  Caluhill,  John,  coroner  for 

CO.  Hereford,  129,  145. 
Calow,   Calale  [in  Chesterfield],   co. 

Derby,  314. 
Calstone   Wellington,    Caleston,    co. 

Wilts,  fee  in,  497. 
Caluhill.    See  Calouhill. 
Calverton,  co.  Buckingham,  manor 

of,  242. 
Cam,  Camme,  co.  Gloucester,  manor 

of,  446. 
Camboun,  John,  364. 

Cf.  Campion. 

Cambridge,   Cantebrigge   [co.    Cam- 
bridge], 266. 

,  Heye  Street  in,  265. 

,  Kings   Hall  [site  of  Trinity 

College],  hall  of  the  scholars 

maintained     by     the     king, 

garden      of      warden      and 

scholars  of,  265. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  scholars  of,  221. 

,  .  .  . . ,  warden  of.     See  Roos, 

Nicholas  de. 

,  parish  of  All  Saints  in,  265. 

,  river  at,  265. 

,   St.   John's   house,   hospital 

[site  of  St.   John's  College], 

265. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  master  of,  24. 

Cambridge,     Cantebrigge,     earl    of. 

See  Edmund. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


633 


Cainbridgc,  Cantubriggo,  county  of, 

61,  381,  490. 
«,....,  eschoator  in.      See  Olncyo, 

John  ;        Otteford,      William 

de  ;    Styuoclo,  Nicholas  de. 
,  guardians  of  the  peace  and 

justices  of  oyer  and  terminer 

in,  391. 

,  justices  of  assize  in,  265. 

knights  of  the  shire  of,  169, 

273,  480. 
,   sheriff    of,    138,    141,    156, 

245. 
cambuc,  prohibition  of,  181. 
Camme.    See  Cam. 
Camme,  William,  William  de,  261, 

369. 
Camoys,  Hugh,  knight,  485. 
Campeden,    Caumpeden,    John    de, 

367. 
,  Walter  de,  receiver  of  rents, 

etc.  of  the  lands  of  the  king's 

sons,  14. 
Campelham,  Thomas,  475. 
Campion,  Campioun,  John,  65. 

,  Roger,  282. 

Cf.  Camboun,  Champyon. 

Campsey    Ash,    Chaumpeseye    [co. 

Suffolk],  prioress  of,  496. 
Candelesbye,  Kandlesby,  William  de 

205. 

, of   Waltham,  394. 

Candevere,  Simon  de,  502. 
Candeveresden.    See  Canterton. 
candle  of  Paris,  362. 
Candover.      See    Chilton  Candover, 

Preston  Candover. 
Cane,  John,  of  Sherrington,  54. 
Canford,      Caneford,      co.      Dorset, 

manor  of,  112,  113. 

,  . . . . ,  deed  dated  at,  489. 

Cankan,    John   son   of   Stephen,    of 

Great  Driffield,  376. 
Canne,  Walter,  73. 
Cannings.    See  Bishops  Cannings. 
Cannyngs,  Canynges,  John  de,  256. 

,  Susan  wife  of  John,  242. 

,  Thomas  son  of  John  de,  256. 

,  William,  William  de,  117. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  farmer  of  subsidy,  484. 

,    .  .  . . ,  merchant  of  Bristol, 

255. 
Cantebrigge.    See  Cambridge. 
Cantebrigge,    Henry    de,    merchant 

of  London,  487. 

,  John  de,  knight,  265. 

Canterbviry,  Caunterbire,   co.   Kent, 

180,   230,   373. 
,   archbishop   of.      See   Islip, 

Simon  de  ;    Langham,  Simon 


Canterbury,  arclibi-shop  of — cont. 

,  .  ,  .  . ,  palace  of,  373. 

,  rights  of  wardship  of, 

455. 

,      .  .  .  . ,     settlement     as     to 

primacy  of,   181. 

,  archbishopric  of,  tempora- 
lities of,  200. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    guardians   of, 

456. 

,  . .  . . ,  voidance  of,  134,  250, 

317. 

,   bailiffs  of,  215,  445.       See 

also  Sheldwych,  John  do ; 
Tiece,  John. 

,  Christ  Church,  prior  of,  131. 

,    .  .  .  . ,   ....   and  chapter  of, 

89,  210,  467. 

,  citizens  of,  373. 

,  court  of,  178,  379. 

,  deed  dated  at,  373. 

,  justices  in  eyre  at,  274. 

,  official  of  archdeacon  of,  324. 

,  St.  Augustine's  abbey,  abbot 

of,  89,  210,  468. 

,   .  .  .  . ,   ....  and  convent  of, 

486. 

,  staple  held  at,  478,  479. 

,  suburb  of,  415. 

Canterton,  Candeveresden  [in  Pres- 
ton Candover],  CO.  Hants,  486. 

Canteshangre,  Thomas,  485. 

Cantilupe.    See  Aston  Cantlow. 

canvass,  exemption  from  custom  on, 
104. 

Canynges.    See  Cannyngs. 

Capell.    See  Chapeltown. 

Capon,  Capoun,  John,  307,  400. 

,  William  son  of  Robert,  282. 

Carbonell,  Robert,  coroner  for  co. 
Bedford,  229. 

Carburra,  Walter,  coroner  for  Corn- 
wall, 97. 

Cardington,  Kerdyngton,  co.  Bed- 
ford, 434,  435. 

Careby,  co.  Lincoln,  manor  of,  427. 

Carent,  William,  111. 

,  ....  son  of  William,  111. 

Carham,  co.  Northumberland,  Wark, 
Werk  in,  182,  183. 

Car  lei.     See  Karlel. 

Carles,  Agnes  wife  of  William,  287. 

,  Hugh,  21. 

,  .  .  .  .,  clerk,  159. 

,  William,  287. 

, ,  knight,  394. 

Cf.  Cliaries. 

Carleton.       See  Carlton. 

Carlisle,  Karliol,  Karlioll,  KarlLsle 
[co.  Cumberland],  331. 


634 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Carlisle — oont. 

,    bishop    of.       See    Ap|)leby, 

Thomas  de. 

castle,  repair  of,  110. 

,  diocese  of,  taxation  of,  151. 

,  exchequer  of,36,  41,  41fi,  428. 

,  mayor  and  bailiffs  of,  404. 

Cai'low,     Catherlagh     [co.     Carlo  w], 

Ireland,   Irish  exchequer   at, 

150. 
Carlton,    Castle,   Castelcarleton,    co. 

Lincoln,  inanor  of,  323. 
,  East,  Carletou  [co.  Norfolk], 

400. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  common  at,  311. 

Highdale,  Carleton  [in  Cover- 
ham],  CO.  York,  manor  of,  361. 
Carmarthen,     Kaermerdyn,     Wales, 

152. 
Carmynou,    Ralph    son    of    Walter, 

knight,  387. 
Carnaby,      Kernetby,      co.      York, 

manor  of,  340,  417. 
Carnewellan.     See  Carnwallon. 
Carnforth,  Kerneford,  co.  Lancaster, 

manor  of,  59. 
Carnwallon,    Carnewellan    [co.    Car- 
marthen], lord  of.     Sea  John 

duke  of  Lancaster. 
Carpenter,  John,  50. 

, ,  of  Petorsfield,  294. 

Carre,  Stephen,  of  Hants,  381. 
Carreu,  Carru,  John  de,  15,  95,  96. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight,  16. 

,    Leonard,    Leonard   de,    70, 

95,  96. 

,  ....  son  of  John  de,  16,  346. 

Carrigaline  alias  Beauver  [co.  Cork], 

manor  of,  94. 
Carru.     See  Carreu. 
Carrwe,  Nicholas,  383. 
Carsewell.   See  Caswell. 
Carshalton,  Kersalton,    Kershalton, 

CO.  Surrey,  187. 

,  fvilling  mill  at,  20. 

Carswsll.    See  Caswell. 
Carswell,  John,  475,  476. 

,  Thomas,  475. 

Cartere,  Beatrice  daughter  of  Robert, 

63. 

,  Joan  daughter  of  Robert,  63. 

,  John  son  of  Robert,  63. 

,  Robert,  of  Falkingham,  63. 

,  ....  son  of  Robert,  63. 

,  William  son  of  Nicholas  le,  3, 

Caruail,  Caruayle,  John,  John  de  la, 

297,  366,  464. 
Cary,    Castle,    Cary   [co.    Somerset], 

vicar  of.    See  Stanlegh,  Roger 

de. 


Cary,  John,  45,  73,  175,  191,  443. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Devon,  480. 

,  Margaret  wife  of  John,  73. 

,  William,  44,  45,  61,  65,  162, 

175,  191. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire   of 

Devon,  480. 
Carykesheth.    See  Creeksea. 
Casebolt,  John,  391. 
Cassio,    Caysho    [in    Watford],    co. 

Hertford,  298. 
Castel,  Castell,  Adam  atte,  of  Sutton, 

402. 
,    George    atte,    coroner    for 

Warwickshire,   129. 
,     Thomas     atte,     of     West 

Smithfield,  citizen  of  London, 

82. 
Castelacre,  William  de,  384. 
Castelcarleton.    See  Carlton. 
Castelcombe.     See  Combe,  Castle. 
Casteleynosdam.    See  Castelyns. 
Castelford,  William,  William  de,  S3, 

87,  383.  \ 

, ,  of  Wakefield,  85, 

Castelgonnan.     See  Castlegannon. 

Castell.    See  Castel,  Castile. 

Castell  Assheby,  de  Asschby  David. 

See  Ashby,  Castle. 
Castelyns,   Casteleynesdam   in   Ket- 

teringham,   co.   Norfolk,   312. 
Castile,  Castell,  king  of.  See  Henryll; 

Peter. 
Castle  Ashby.    See  Ashby. 

Bytham.    See  Bytham. 

Carlton.   See  Carlton. 

Cary.    See  Cary. 

Combe.    See  Combe. 

Framlyngham.      See  Fram- 

lingham . 
Castlegannon,  Castelgonnan  [barony 

of     I'ijTLOcktopher],     co.     Kil- 
kenny, 425. 
Castle  Hedingham,  Hengham.     See 

Hedingham. 
Castre,  John,  50. 
Castro,  Gervase  de,  bishop  elect  of 

Bangor,  professor  of  order  of 

Friars  preachers   and   master 

in  theology,  358. 
Caswell,      Carsewell      [in      Green's 

Norton],     co.     Northampton, 

434. 
Carswell    [in    Witney],    co. 

Oxford,  475. 
Catcott,  Catccote,  Gattecote  [parish 

of  Moorlinch],   co.   Somerset, 

144,  166,  220. 
Catesby  [co.  Northampton],  267. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


635 


Catesb}',    William   de,    oschcator   in 

CO.  Leicester,  4. '54. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  kniglit  of  the  sliiro  of 

Warwick,   108. 
Catewey,  Catowy,  Thomas,  101,  191. 
Catherlagh.    Sec  Carlow. 
Cat  Hill,  Kateshull  [parish  of  Curd- 
worth,  CO.  Warwick],    manor 

of,  51. 
Cathwayt.    See  Catton  ? 
Catour,    William,    burgess   of   Dun- 
stable, 302. 
cats,  411,  426. 
Catsey  wood,  Cattessho  in  Odell,  co. 

}3edford,  356. 
cattle,  454,  455. 
Catton,  CO.  York,  57. 
?  Cath-wayt    {elsetvhere   Cat- 

wayton),  417. 

,  manor  of,  140. 

Caumpeden.    See  Campedon. 
Caunburleyn.      See  Chamberlayn. 
Cauncewyth,  co.  York,  wood  of,  361. 
Caunteloo,  John  de,  489. 
Caunterbire.    See  Canterbury. 
Caunton,  David  de,  452. 
,      Elizabeth     (fitz       Nichol) 

daughter  of  David  de,  452. 

,  Joan  wife  of  David  de,  452. 

Caurse,  Caux  [cos.  Salop  and  Mont- 
gomery], lords  of,  371. 
Caus,  Matthew  de,  161. 
Causton.    See  Cawston. 
Causton,  Robert  de,  justice,  384. 
Cauun,  Thomas,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Kent,  480. 

Cf.  Coene. 

Caux.    See  Caurse. 

Cavason,  Matthew,  290. 

Cave,  North  [co.  York],  parson  of. 

See  Cotyngham,   John   de. 

,  South,  CO.  York,  287. 

Cave.     See  Cane. 

Cavendish,  Cavendissh,  Cavendvssh 

[CO.   Suffolk],    170,    171,    384, 

386. 

,  deed  dated  at,  171. 

Cavendish,  Cavendissh,  Cavendyssh, 

John,  John  de,  333,  334,  460. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  justice,  403. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    ....    of  assize  in  co. 

Northampton,  375. 
,   .  .  .  . ,   ....   of  gaol  delivery 

at  Lincoln,  414. 

,  Stephen  de,  draper,  188. 

,     .  .  .  . ,    mayor    of,    and    es- 

cheator  in  London,  24. 
Cawston,     Causton     [co.     Norfolk], 

parson  of.     See  Skakelthorp, 

Adam  de. 


Caxtons,  Cakestonn  in  Groat  Maple- 
stead  and  Castle  Hedinghain, 
CO.  Esse.x,  manor  of,  433. 

Caysho.    See  Cassio. 

Cayshoo.     See  Keysoe. 

Cedewain,  Kedewy  [co.  Mont- 
gomery], kee])er  of  lordship 
of,  371. 

Celer,  Richard  atte,  269. 

,  .  .  .  .,  citizen  of  London,  211. 

Cf.  Seler. 

Cely,  Benedict,  372. 

Cf.  Sely. 

Centmarz,  Giles,  merchant  of 
FlaTiders,  451. 

Cepham,  Elizabeth  wife  of  John  de, 
61. 

,  John  de,  61. 

,  ....  son  of  John  de,  61. 

Cerchedene.      See  Sarsden. 

Cergoaux.     See  Sergeaux. 

Cerne,  Edward  de,  184. 

, ,  knight,  369. 

Cesterton.    See  Chesterton. 

Chaddorton,  Chaderton  [in  Oldham], 
CO.  Lancaster,   297. 

Chaddesleye,  Chadeslee,  Richard  de, 
clerk  of  the  earl  of  Salisbury, 
205,  206. 

Chadelyngton.     See  Cliadlington. 

Chaderton.    See  Chadderton. 

Chadeslee.     See  Chaddesleye. 

Chadlington ,  Chadelyngton,  Chad- 
lyngton,  Chadylnton,  co.  Ox- 
ford, fee  in,  496. 

,  Shepenhull  manor  in,  230. 

,  Wahull,  Whaull  manor  in, 

230. 

Chadwell,  Chaldewell,  co.  Essex,  78. 

,  manor  of,  391. 

Cf.    Shaldeswelle. 

Chafford  [in  Penshurst,  co.  Kent], 
178. 

Chakendene.    See  Checkendon. 

Chaldewell.    See  Chadwell. 

Chalfont  St.  Giles,  Chalfhunte  St. 
Giles   [co.    Buckingham],    86. 

St.    Peter,    Chalfhunte    St. 

Peter  [co.   Buclcingham],   86. 

Chalgrove,  Chalgrave,  co.  Oxford, 
manor  of,  214. 

Chalk,  CO.  Kent,  Beckel,  Bokkles  in, 
495. 

Chaloner,  Thomas,  45. 

Chamberlayn,  Caunburleyn,  Cham- 
berleyn,  Chaumberleyn, 

Chaunberleyn,  Chavmbiu"leyn, 
Henry,  of  Wickenby,  280. 

,  John,  54. 

.Philip,  343.  ^   . 


536 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Chamberlayn — cont. 

llichard  le,  207. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight,  54. 

Chambernoun,  llichard  son  of 
Thomas,  321. 

Chambre,  Chaumbre,  Agnes  wife  of 
Roger  del,  477. 

John,  170. 

,  ....      atte,     of      Marston, 

161. 

,  ....  del,  of  Newcastle-upon- 
Tyne,  400. 

Margery  do  la,  133. 

,  Matthew  de  la,  133. 

,  Roger  del,  477. 

Champyon,  Reynold,  489. 

Cf.  Campy  on. 

Chancellor,  the.  See  Langham, 
Simon  ;  Wykeham,  William 
de 

of    the     exchequer.         See 

Askeby,  William  de. 

Chancery,  22,  34,  39,  46,  71,  88,  90, 
93,  97,  98,  100,  103,  105,  107, 
109,  126,  154,  155,  157,  164, 

169,  171,  179,  180,  205,  209, 
215,  216,  218,  222,  223,  224, 
229,  230,  232,  235,  241,  242, 
243,  244,  249,  263,  265,  266, 
267,  271,  278,  281,  291,  294, 
295,  297,  315,  317,  319,  320, 
324,  327,  328,  337,  339,  345, 
348,  349,  359,  369,  372,  373, 
374,  375,  379,  380,  390,  392, 
393,  400,  401,  419,  420,  424, 
431,  433,  434,  442.  449,  451, 
455,  457,  465,  468,  469,  470, 
473,  478,  482,  486,  487,  499. 

,  clerks  of,  335. 

,  . .  .  . ,  cognisance  of  tres- 
passes committed  by  or 
against,  177,  290. 

,    See  Botheby,  John 

de  ;  Power,  Walter  ;  Raven- 
sere,  Richard  de;  WoUore, 
David  de. 

,  deeds  acknowledged  in,  42, 

47,  50,  52,  54,  59,  72,  73,  159, 

170,  190,  192,  206,  261,  306, 
308,  314,  366,  384,  387,  406, 
408,  459,  469,  470,  479,  484, 
486,  489,  501,  502,  503,  504. 

,  enrolments  in,  9,  10,  11,  12, 

20,  21,  28,  29,  30,  100,  101, 
111,  158,  221,  301,  311,  332, 
340,  346,  347,  356,  397,  417, 
425,  433,  458,  501. 

,  with  effect  of  record, 

305. 

,  estreats  of,  28. 


Chancerv — cont. 

,  files  of,  59,  70,  1 65,  1 76,  206, 

210,  213,  315,  378,  396,  483, 
502. 

,  fine  made  in,  40. 

,  hanaper  of,  225,  330. 

,  .....  keeper  of.  See  Raven- 
sere,  Richard  de. 

,  inn  of,  335. 

,   instruments   cancelled   etc. 

in,  7,  65,  131,  200,  306,  412, 
492,  493. 

,  king  and  council  in,  427. 

,  matters  certified  in,  3,  6,  7, 

17,  19,  21,  24,  31,  36,  37,  38, 
49,  51,  80,  94,  99,  103,  105, 
128,  131,  144,  145,  152,  153, 
159,  164,  212,  217,  218,  225, 
226,  231,  232,  239,  241,  243, 
244,  246,  249,  250,  255,  257, 
266,  309,  310,  323,  328,  330, 
333,  335,  336,  338,  340,  342, 
348,  357,  358,  360,  364,  368, 
370,  371,  376,  390,  391,  404, 
405,  413,  421,  422,  423,  424, 
425,  429,  441,  442,  414,  448, 
450,  451,   479,  490. 

,  pleas  in,  164. 

,  recognisances  in,  47,  67,  223, 

502. 

,   ....   annulled  in,  65,  306. 

,  rolls  of,  13.  66,  100,  223,  305, 

340,  426,  447. 

,   keeper  of.     ^See  Wol- 

lore,  David  de. 

,    suburb    of    London    where 

chancery  is,  177. 

See  Ireland. 

Chandos,  Chaundos,  John  de,  443. 

,  baron  of  St.  Sauveur 

le  Vicomte,  128. 

Richard,  clerk,  294. 

Chantries.  See  Bentley,  Childrey, 
Cocker  ham,  Cotterstock, 

Crich,  Layer  Mamey,  Lon- 
don, Lychefeld,  Rise,  Sandy, 
Skelton,  York. 

Chapeltown,  Capell  [parish  of 
Ecclesfield],  co.  York,  147. 

Chapman,  Margery,  170. 

,  Robert,  462. 

Thomas,  of  Maldon,  388. 

Chareman,  John,  of  Essex,  376. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  of  Rickling,  366. 

Charlbury,  co.  Oxford,  Pudlicot, 
Podlicote  in,  496. 

Charles,  co.  Devon,  18,  109. 

in   Dartford.  co.    Kent,  98. 

Charles,  Richard,  289. 

Cf.  Carles. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


537 


Charleton,     Chorlton,     co.     Devon, 

manor  of,  27. 
Charloton,  Cherloton,  John,  John  de, 

103,  268. 
, .  . .,  lord  of  Povvis,  371. 
, .  . .,  of  Apley,  knight,  81, 

83. 

,  of  Middlesex,  55,  199. 

Lewis  de,  22. 

.  .  .  . ,  bisliop  of  Hereford,  23. 
Robert  de,  201. 
Roger   uncle    of   John   de, 

knight,  267. 
Thomas  de,  477. 
WilUam  de,  22. 
Charlton,      Cherleton     by      Sutton 

Valence  [in  East  Sutton],  co. 

Kent,  fee  in,  495. 
,  Charleton  by  Uphavcn,  co. 

Wilts,  prior  of,  4.57. 
Horettiorne,    Clierleton,    co. 

Somerset,  manor  of,  112. 
Kings,  Cherlton,  co.  Glouces- 
ter, manor  of,  422. 
North,    Northcarleton    [co. 

Northumberland],     mills     at, 

438. 
Charneles,     Charnels,    John,     clerk, 

receiver  of  the  king's  wools, 

333. 
.'.....,    coroner   for    co.    Leicester, 

348. 

king's  clerk,  256. 

Char tel eye.    See  Chartley. 
Chartham,    Chertham    [co.     Kent], 

parson    of.       See    Chirchull, 

William  de. 
Chartley,    Charteleye,    co.    Stafford, 

manor  of,  342. 
Charwalton,  Robert  de,  clerk,  343. 

Roger  de,  clerk,  476. 

Chastillon,  Chastillun,  Hugh,  knight, 

77. 
,  .  .  .  . ,   of  CO.  Bucking- 
ham, 261. 
Chatham,  Chetham,  co.  Kent,  206. 
,    Shawstead,    Sliarstede    in, 

206. 

,  Little,  CO.  Kent,  189,  336. 

Chatton,  co.  Northumberland,  438. 

,  Fowberry,  Fulbery  in,    147. 

Chaucer,  Nicholas,  459,  500. 
Chaucombe,  John,  161. 
Chaulowe,  Robert,  463. 
Chaumberleyn.     See  Chamberlayn. 
Chaumbre.    Se-e  Chambre. 
Chaumpeneys,  Henry,  466. 
Chaumpeseye.    See  Campsey  Ash. 
Chaunberleyn,   Chaunburleyn.      See 

Chamberlayn. 


Cliaundoler,  Adam,  of  Linton,  391. 
Chaundos.    See  Chaiidos. 
Chaungoour,  Adam,  of  London,  236, 

497. 
,    Bartholomew,    of    London, 

12,  13. 
Chaunse,  Isabel  do,  32. 
Chauntecler,  Thomas,  387. 
Chauntemerle,    Walter,    the    king's 

falconer,  481. 
Chaunterle,  Walter,  327. 
Chaworth,     John,     of     Medbourne, 

parson  of  Cossington,  307. 
Checkendon,    Chakendene    [co.    Ox- 
ford], rector  of.  See  Stratton, 

Henry. 
Cheddar,     Cheddre,     co.     Somerset, 

manor  of,  4. 
Cheddre,  Robert,  farmer  of  subsidy, 

203. 

,  William,  56,  165. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  farmer  of  subsidy,  203. 

Cheigny,  Alan  de,  knight,  184. 

Cf.  Cheyne. 

Chelchehethe.    See  Chelsea. 
Chelford.    ^See  Shelf ord. 
Chelham,  Alice  de,  66. 
Chellosfeld.     See  Chelsfield. 
Chellington,  Chelvyngton,  co.  Bed- 
ford, fishery  at,  357. 
Chells,   Chelsey   [in   Stevenage],   co. 

Hertford,  435. 
Chelmsford,  Chelmersford,  Chelmes- 

ford  [CO.  Essex],  171,  306. 
,  church  of  friars  preachers  at, 

461. 
Chelreye.    See  Childrey. 
Chekeve,    Clielre,    Alice   mother    of 

^Edmund  de,  462. 
,    Edmund,    Edmund   de,    6, 

264,  392,  461,  462,  463,  479, 

503. 
,    . .  .  . ,    justice   of   assize   in 

Devon,  73,  74,  264,  266. 

,  . .  . . ,  ....  in  Dorset,  257. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Somerset,  74, 

266. 
,  Henry  father  of  Edmund  de, 

462. 
,  Lucy  wife  of  Edmund  de, 

462. 
Chelscombe,  Alan  de,  185. 
Chelsea,   Chelchehethe  [co.  Middle- 
sex],   385. 

,  manor  of,  385,  386. 

Chelsey.    See  Chells. 

Chelsfield,    Chellesfeld    [co.    Kent], 

rector  of.  See  Bentelay,  John 

de. 
Chelsham,  co.  Surrey,  83. 


538 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Cheltenham,  Cliiltenham  [co. 
Gloucester],  manor  and  hun- 
dred of,  21. 

Chelvey,  Chelvy  [co.  Somerset], 
manor  of,  47. 

Chelvyngton.    See  Chellington. 

Chelworth,  Theleworth,  co.  Wilts, 
fees  in,  498. 

See  Chilworth. 

Chene,  Richard,  391. 

Cf.  Cheyne. 

Chenie.    See  Cheyne. 

Cheppestowe.   See  Chepstow. 

Chepsted.    See  Chipstead. 

Chepstede,  John  de,  173. 

Chepstow,  Cheppestowe,  Strogoil  [co. 
Monmovith],  bailiffs,  cus- 
tomers etc.  of,  137. 

,  lord  of.    See  Mauny,  Walter 

de. 

Chepyngtoriton.     See  Torrington. 

Cherdestoke,  Nicholas  de,  478. 

Cherleton,  Cherlton.  See  Charleton, 
Charlton. 

Cherrington,  Chiryngton,  Chyriton, 
CO.  Gloucester,   265. 

,  manor  of,  422. 

,    parson    of.       See    Pynnok, 

William. 

Chertham.    See  Chartham. 

Chese,  Thomas,  of  Westminster,  473. 

Cheselborne,  Cheselbourne.  See 
Chesilborne. 

Cheshiuit,  Chesthunte  [co.  Hertford], 
461. 

Chesilborne,  Long  Cheselborne, 
Cheselbourne,  co.  Dorset, 
rector  of.  See  Calmescote, 
Walter. 

Chester  [co.  Chester],  abbot  of,  456. 

,  chamberlain  of,  226,  227. 

,  gaugers  of  wine  at,  132. 

Chestre   [in   Irchester],    co. 

Northampton,    54. 

Chester,  earl  of.  See  Edward  ;  Scot, 
John  le. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  justice  of,  in  Cheshire, 

404. 

Chesterfeld,  Chestrefeld,  Richard  de, 
canon  of  St.  Stephen's  col- 
lege, Westminster,   122. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    chamberlain    of    the 

exchequer,  276. 

,  clerk,  176,  306,  384. 

,  ..'..,  .  .  .  . ,  deputy  treasurer 

in  the  receipt  of  the  exche- 
quer, accusations  against, 
114-124. 

,      . .  . . ,      .  .  .  . ,     the     king's 

chamberlain,  49. 


Chesterfeld — cont. 

,  Roger  brother  of  Richard  de, 

118,   120. 
Chesterfield,      co.      Derby,      Calow, 

Calale  in,  314. 
Chesterton,  Cesterton,  co.  Oxford,  3. 
Chesthunte.    See  Cheshunt. 
Chesthunte,    Menaudus   de,    knight, 

108. 
,   Walter  son  of  Walter  de, 

knight,  297. 
Chestre.   See  Chester. 
Chestrefeld.    See  Chesterfeld. 
Chesulhampton.   See  Chiselhampton. 
Chetham.     »See  Chatham. 
Chetton,  co.  Salop,  Faintree,  Fayn- 

tre,  in  410. 
Cheupayn,        William,        otherwise 

Robert  Fool,  48,  49. 
Cheveley,  Chevelee  Tco.  Cambridge], 

465. 
Chevereshalle.    See  Chi  vers  Hall. 
Chevet  [in  Royston],  co.  York,  383. 
Cheyle.    See  Keal. 
Cheyndust,  Emma  wife  of  Thomas, 

50. 

,  Joan  daughter  of  Thonias,  50. 

,  Thomas,  50. 

Cheyne,   Chenie,    Cheyny,  Edmund, 

keeper  of  the  islands  of  Jersey, 

Guernsey,  Alderney  and  Sark, 

34,    105. 
,  Joan  (Pavely)  wife  of  Ralph, 

456,   457,   458. 

,  John,  203,  493. 

, ,  knight,  50,  207. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    ....    of  the  shire  of 

Cambridge,  273. 

,  Ralph,  456. 

,  Roger,  citizen  of  Chichester. 

169,  274. 

, ,  knight,  372. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    ....    of  the  shire  of 

Salop,  168. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  sheriff  of  Salop,  203. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  the  younger,  473. 

,  Thomas,  191,  221,  291,  313. 

410,  465. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  constable  of  Windsor 

castle,  336,  348,  430,  432. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  escheator  in  Devon,  1 6, 

27,  38,  52,  96,  139,  157,  353, 

359,  364,  436,  443. 
,    .  .  .  . ,    keeper   of   Guildford 

park,  432. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the  king's  esquire,  195. 

,  William,  escheator   in  Dor- 
set, 438. 
,     .  .  .  . ,     ....     in    Somerset, 

435,  436,  437,  438. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


539 


Cheyne,  William — corU. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the  youn<?or,  279. 

Cf.  Cheigny,  Chono. 

Cheyvene,     Chyvene,     Thomas,     of 

Mardon,  tho  older,  209. 
, de,      the      younger, 

209. 
Chichester,    Cicestre    fco.     Sussex], 

bailiffs  of,  90,  137,  430. 
,  bishop  of.    See  Lenne,  Wil- 
liam de. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  vicar-general  of,  89. 

,   bishopric   of,   guardians   of 

temporalities  of,  321. 
,    citizens    of,    summoned    to 

parliament,    169,   274,   481. 

,  collectors  of  customs  in,  95. 

,  customers  etc.  of,  137. 

mayor  of,  90,  137. 

Chichestre,  Cicestre,  Johnde,  71,  269. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  alderman  of  London, 

77. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  296. 

Chickerell,  West,  Westchikerell,  co. 

Dorset,    248. 
Chicklade,  Chiklade,  co.  Wilts,  437. 
Chiddingstone,      Chidyngston      [co. 

Kent],  184. 
Chidiok,   Chidyok,   John,   John    de, 

knight,    184,    399. 
Chidyngston.     See  Chiddingstone. 
Chidyok.    See  Chidiok. 
Chierleiu,    John    de,    prior    of    St. 

Saviour's,   Bermondsey,    377. 
Chiklade.    See  Chicklade. 
Chilbolton,   Chilbalton  [co.   Hants], 

parson  of.     See  Goundeville, 

John. 
Child,  Chyld,  Stephen,  462. 

,  William,  462. 

Childehey,    Cicely    (de    Croukerne), 

daughter    of    Joan    wife    of 

Richard,  220. 
,     Joan     (Laundy)     wife     of 

Richard,  220. 
Childerlee,  William  de,  69. 
Child     Okeford,     Childokford,      co. 

Dorset,  church  of,  56,  165. 

,  manor  of,  56,  165. 

Childrey,  Chelreye  [co.  Berks],  271, 

462. 
,  church  of,  chantry  in,  461, 

462. 
,     .  .  .  . ,    divine    worship    in, 

461. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  rector  of,  462. 

,  deed  dated  at,  271. 

,  places  named  in,  462,  463. 

Chilham    [co.     Kent],    manor    and 

castle  of,  40. 


Chiltenham.     See  Cheltenham. 
Chilterne,  John,  163,  470. 

,    do,   50. 

Chilton    Candover,    Candevere,    co. 

Hants,    486. 
Chilwell,  Shillewell  [co.  Nottingham], 

142. 
Chilworth,    Chelworth,    co.    Hants, 

manor  of,  44,  51. 
chiminage,  424. 
Chipstead,    Chepated,     co.     Surrey, 

20. 
Chirbury,  John,  71. 
,  .  .  .  . ,     farmer     of     subsidy, 

88. 
Chirchetyso.    See  Tysoe. 
Chirchhixll,     Chrchull,    William    de, 

guardian     of     the     tempora- 
lities    of     the     bishopric     of 

Chichester,  321. 
,    .  .  .  . ,  parson  of  Chartham, 

66. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  prisoner  in  the  Fleet, 

279. 
Chiriton,  Thomas  son  of  Walter  de, 

401. 
Chirk  [co.   Denbigh],  lord  of.      See 

Fitz   Alan,    Richard,    earl   of 

Arundel. 
Chiryngton.    See  Cherrington. 
Chiryton,  Geoffrey,  184. 
Chisbury,     Chissebury     [parish     of 

Bedwin],  co.  Wiits,  manor  of, 

82. 
Chiselhampton,  Chesulhampton  [co. 

Oxford],  192. 
Chishall,  Chishill,  Great,  co.  Essex, 

fee  in,  496. 
Chisleden,  William  de,  of  Wilts,  50. 
Chissebury.    See  Chisbury. 
Chitecroft,  John,  163,  185. 
Chivaler,  William,   206. 
Chivereston,  John  de,  244. 
Chivers    Hall,    Chevereshall,    parish 

of   High   Ongar    [co.    Essex], 

172. 
Chokes,  honour  of,  in  co.  Northamp- 
ton, 154. 
Chrchull.    See  ChirchuU. 
Christianity,  court  of,  369. 
church,  proclamation  in,  202. 
Churche,  Hugh  atte,  draper  of  Lon- 
don, 279. 
Churchehanewode.     See  Hanwood. 
Churston    Ferrers,  Churcheston  [co. 

Devon],  163. 
Chyld.    See  Child. 
Chyriton.    See  Cherrington. 
Chyvene.    See  Cheyvene. 
Cicestre.    See  Chichester,  Chichestre. 


540 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Cinque    Ports,    the,    barons   of,    90, 

325. 
,    .  .  .  . ,   immunities   of,    325, 

326. 
,    . .  .  . ,  liberties  of,  in  Great 

Yarmouth,  308,   309. 

,  mayors  and  jurats  of,  326. 

,  men  of  hberty  of,  389. 

,    warden    of.        See    Herle, 

Robert  ;     Spigurnell,    Ralph. 
Cippenham    [parish     of     Bvu'nhani, 

CO.  Buckingham],  61. 
Cirencester,     Circestre,     Cirencestre 

[co.     Gloucester],    abbot    of, 

454,  492. 

,  ....  and  convent  of,  486. 

,  deed  dated  at,  68. 

Civil  Law,  Corpus  of,  409. 
Glacton,  Clokton  [co.  Essex],  85. 
Claines,    co.    Worcester,    Northwick 

in,  106. 
Claphara,  Clopham,  co.  Bedford,  fee 

in,  497. 

,  Clopham,  co.  Sussex,  5. 

,    . .  .  . ,  Michel  Grove,  Muche- 

grove  in,  5. 
,  .  .  . . ,  parson  of.   See  Swyf t, 

John. 
Clapton,    Clopton,    co.    Cambridge, 

manor  of,  495. 
Clare,  Gilbert  de,  lord  of  Callan,  425. 
,  Richard  de,  dean  of  Wim- 

borne  Minster,  106. 

,  Thomas  de,  497. 

Clarence,  duke  of.    See  Lionel. 
Clarendon,     Claryndon     forest,     co. 

Wilts,  keeper  of.    See  Buckes- 

hull,  Alan  de. 

park,  CO.  Wilts,  415. 

Claresplace.     See  Clearfields. 
Claryndon.    See  Clarendon. 
Clatford  priory,   co.   Wilts,   founder 

of.     See  Mortuo  Mari,  Roger 

de. 

,  prior  of,  419. 

Clavering,    Claveryng    [co.    Essex], 

185. 
Claville,  John  de,  38. 
,  William  son  of  John  de,  38. 

39. 
Claxdone,  parson  of.     See  Rodyng- 

ton,  Robert. 
Clay,  Walter,  294. 
Claydon,  East,  Astclaydon,  Haste- 

claydon,      co.      Buckingham, 

229,  230. 
,  Middle,  Middelclavdon,  co. 

Buckingham,   229,   230. 
St.     Botolph,     Botclaydon, 

CO.  Buckingham,  229,  230. 


Clearfields    (farm),     Claresplace  [in 

Brill],  CO.  Buckingham,  230. 
Cleatop,  Cletliorp  [in  Giggleswick], 

CO.  York,  manor  of,  140. 
Clee,  Wmiam  de,  avener  of  the  king's 

household,  236. 

Cf.  Cley. 

Cleet,  John,  165,  463. 

Cleeve,  Clyve,  co.  Somerset,  abbot 

of,  454. 
Clement,  Robert,  clerk,  388. 
, parson  of  Orton  Water- 

vUle,  261. 
Clenchewarton,  John  de,  of  Norfolk, 

400. 
Clendon,  Richard  de,  1 02. 
Clerc.  ,See  Clerk. 
Clere  Episcopi.     See  Highclere. 
Clerevaux,  Clervaux,  John,  143. 

, ,  of  Croft,  191,  502. 

clergy,  benefit  of,  99,  153,  216,  414, 

434. 
,  prerogative  of,  when  serving 

the  king,  156. 

,  privilege  of,  41. 

Clerk,  Clerc,  John,  18. 
,    ....    le,   of  Hamel  Hemp- 
stead, 207. 
,  Nicholas,  of  Bishops  Laving- 

ton,  294. 

,  Richard,  481,  482. 

,  Thomas,  of  London,  392. 

,  William,  of  Lindsell,  171. 

, the,  43,  373. 

Clerkson,  Roger,  283. 
Clervaux.     See  Clerevaux. 
Clethorp.    See  Cleatop. 
Cleton  [in  Skipsea,  co.  York],  315. 

Newehithe  in,  315. 

Cleveland,     Cliveland     [co.     York], 

archdeaconry  of,  151. 
Clewer,  Clyware,  co.  Berks,  manor  of, 

348. 

,  Loffeld  in,  133. 

Cley,    Cleye,    co.    Norfolk,    fee    in, 

497. 
Cley,  William  de,  73. 

Cf.  Clee. 

Cliderhou.    See  Clitheroe. 
Cliderhou,    Clyherhowe,    Clyderowe, 

Hugh  de,  knight,  240,  495. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Cambridge,  169,  480. 
Cliffe,  Clyve  [co.  Kent],  478. 
,  Mortimers  alias  Shrambroke 

in,  495. 

,  King's.    See  Kingscliffe. 

Clifford,    Clyfford,    Roger    de,    326, 

483. 
,  lord  of,  418. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


541 


Clifton     Campvillo     [co.     Stafford], 

lord  of.  See  Stafford,  Richard 

de. 
Hamp<lon,      Clifton      [co. 

Oxford],  192. 
lieynes,  Clyfton  [co.   Buck- 
ingham],  .393,   470. 

,  deed  dated  at,  476. 

Clipstone,    Clipston,     co.     Notting- 
ham, chapel  in,  142. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  repair  of,  432. 

chapel    of    St.      Edwin     in 

Sherwood  forest  in,  142. 

,  repair  of,  432. 

clerk    of    works    at.       See 

Elmele,   Walter  de. 
,  manor  of,   keeper   of.      See 

Morton,  Robert  de. 

,  park  of,  repair  of,  429. 

Clisseby.    See  Clixby. 

Clitheroe,  Cliderhou,  co.  Lancaster, 

240,  249. 

,  Coldcotes  in,  240,  249. 

Cliveland.    See  Cleveland. 

Clive  Pipard.    See  Clyffe  Pypard. 

Clixby,     Clisseby    [in    Caistor,     co. 

Lincoln],  88,  389. 
Clobber,  John,  487. 
Clokton.    See  Clacton. 
Clompstok.    See  Colmpstok. 
Clone.  See  Clun. 
Clon§,  Sir  Roger  de,  archdeacon  of 

Salisbury,  314. 

Cf.  Cloune. 

Clopham.    See  Clapham. 

Clopton.    See  Clapton. 

Clopton,  Avice  wife  of  William  de, 

260. 

,  Edmund  de,  291. 

,  Walter,  Walter  de,  64,  263, 

291,  366,  469. 

,  William  de,  260. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the  son,  knight,  291. 

cloth,  assize  of,  70. 

,  kinds  of,  334. 

of  blanket,  427. 

,    proclamations    concerning, 

88,  376. 

,  regulation  of  sale  of,  349. 

,  sealing  of,  88,  89. 

,  striped,  420. 

,  subsidy    on,     88,    89,     334, 

427. 
, ,  farm  of,  70,  203,  204, 

281,  282,  380,  484. 

,  woollen,  422,  441,  444,  483. 

Cloune,  Richard  de,  366,  464. 

Cf.  Clone. 

club  ball,  prohibition  of,  18L 
Clubbe,  John,  366. 


Clun,  Clone  [oo.  Salop],  lord  of.    See 

Fitz    Alan,    Richard,    earl   of 

Arundel. 
Clyderhowc,  Clydorowo,    See  Clider- 
hou. 
Clyffe     Pypard,    Clivo    Pipard    [co. 

Wilts],  fees  in,  498. 
Clyfford.    See  Clifford. 
Clyfton.    See  Clifton. 
Clyfton,  Adam  de,  the  elder,  320. 

,   ....  son  of  Adam  do,  320. 

,  Thomas  de,  chaplain,  241. 

Clynton,  John  de,  knight,  102,  178. 
,    ....    son   of   John   de,    of 

Maxstoke,   knight,    161,    162. 
, son  of  Robert  de,  232, 

233,  292,  293,  423,  424. 
,  Robert  de,  knight,  232,  233. 

292,  293,  423,  424. 
,  William  de,  earl  of  Hunting- 
don, 161,  162. 
Clyve.      See   Cleeve,    Cliffe,    Ivings- 

cliffe. 
Clyve,     Simon    de,    parson    of    St. 

Mary's  church,  Stamford,  280. 
Clyvedon,    Matthew    de,    knight    of 

the  shire  of  Somerset,  168. 
Clyware.    See  Clewer. 
Cnottynlegh,  Cnottynglegh,  Richard 

de,  44. 
coal,  424,  442. 

,  export  of,  376. 

Coate,     Cotes     [parish    of    Bishops 

Cannings],  co.  Wilts,  27. 
Coatham,  Cotum  [in  Kirk  Leatham], 

CO.  York,  saltcotes  in,  285. 
,  West  [in  Kirk  Leatham],  co. 

York,  285. 
Cobbe,  Baldwin,  coroner  for  Suffolk, 

433. 
,  Henry,  of  Weston  Colville, 

41. 
Cobbeham,  Cobeham.    See  Cobham. 
Coberly,    Cubberle,    Cubberley    [co. 

Gloucester],  157,  219. 
Cobham,    co.    Kent,    lord    of.       See 

Cobham,  John  do. 
Cobham,       Cobbeham,       Cobeham, 

Elizabeth  wife  of  Thomas  de, 

178. 

,  Henry  de,  495. 

,  Joan  wife  of  Reynold  de,  66. 

,  John  de,  knight,  65,  98,  465, 

495. 

, , ,  of  Kent,  260. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  lord  of  Cobham,  82, 

206. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  son  of  James  de,  261. 

,  Stephen  de,  495. 

,  Thomas  de,  178,  495. 


542 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Cobham — cont. 

,  William  de,  66. 

, ,  of  Chafford,  178. 

Cockerham,     Cokerham,     co.     Lan- 
caster, advowson  of,  222,  223. 
,  chantries  in  church  of,  222, 

223. 

,  manor  of,  222,  223. 

,  Ellel,  Ellale  in,  222. 

Cockfield,     Cokefeld     [co.     Suffolk], 

parson    of.       See    Haweboys, 

Adam, 
cock-fighting,  prohibition  of,  181. 
Cockleborough      [by     Chippenham] 

?Kokhill,  CO.  Wilts,  498. 
Coddenham,  Codenham  [co.  Suffolk], 

267. 
Codeford.     See  Codford. 
Codenham.     See  Coddenliam. 
Codford,  Codeford,  co.  Wilts,  manor 

of,  9. 
Codyngton,    Henry    de,    parson    of 

Bottesford,"'40l. 

,  John  de,  clerk,  343. 

Simon  de,  knight,  280. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Surrey,  272,  481. 
Coene,  James,  294. 

Cf.  Cauun. 

Cofe,  John,  idiot,  18,  109. 
Cogan,  Peter  de,  94,  95. 

,  Walter  son  of  Peter  dc,  94. 

Cogenho,  Elizabeth  (de  Wolverton) 

wife  of  William  de,  101,  241, 

242. 

,  Nicholas,  297. 

,  William  de,  101,242. 

Cogges  [co.  Oxford],  475. 

,  deed  dated  at,  471. 

,  Wilcote,  Wyvelcote  in,  353. 

Coggeshale,  Henry  de,  knight,  43. 
Coghill,  Coghull  [in  Pontefract],  co. 

York,  manor  of,  7,  59. 
coinage  of  gold  received  for  ransom 

of  king  of  France,  235. 
Cok,  Coke.    See  Cook. 
Cokefeld.   See  Cockfield. 
Cokefeld,  Alice  wife  of  Thomas  de, 

knight,   211. 
Coker,  Richard,  201. 

,  Roger  de,  184. 

Cokerel,  Cokerell,  John,  462,  463. 

, ,  of  Childrey,  271. 

,  Thomas,  271,  462,  463. 

Cokerham.    See  Cockerham. 
Cokeseye,  Cokesheye,  Hugh  de,  155. 

,  Walter  son  of  Hugh  de,  135, 

155. 
Cokham.    See  Cookham. 
Cokkynge,  John  de,  of  Sussex,  92. 


Colas,  Henry,  of  Guildford,  tavernor, 
farmer  of  subsidy,  71,  89,  381. 
Colaton,  Desiderata  wife  of  George 
de,  73. 

George  de,  73. 

Colbroke.   See  Colnbrook. 
Colbrond,  Thomas,  257. 
Colchester,      Colcestre,      Colchestre, 
Colecestre    [co.    Essex],    cus- 
tomers of,  137. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  168. 

,   mayor  and  bailiffs   of,   91, 

137,  407. 

,  mills  of,  333. 

,  prison  in  castle  of,  393. 

,   St.  Botolph's  priory,  prior 

of,  333,  496. 

Coldassheby.    See  Ashby. 

Coldcotes  [in  Clitheroe],  co.  Lan- 
caster, 240,  249. 

Coldham,  co.  Essex,  lord  of.  See 
Bikenore,  John  de. 

Coldharbour,  Coldherbergh  in  Hat- 
cham  in  Camberwell,  co. 
Surrey,  234. 

See  London,  places  named. 

Cold  Higham,  Hegham,  co. 
Northampton,  434. 

,  Potcote  in,  307,  434. 

Cold  Norton.    See  Norton,  Brize. 

Cole,  Adam,  163. 

,  Thomas,  486. 

,  William,  316. 

Cf.  Colle. 

Colcestre.     See  Colchester. 

Colecombe.    See  CuUicomb. 

Colepeper,  Colepepir,  Colepere,  Col- 
peper,  Culpepyr,  Geoffrey, 
65,  66,  206. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  sheriff  of  Kent,  185. 

,  John,  163,  178,  185. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Kent,  168. 

,  Richard  son  of  Thomas,  163. 

,  Thomas,  178,  206, 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Kent,  480. 

Colepittes,  le,  co.  Northumberland, 
147. 

Coleshill,  Coleshulle,  co.  Berks,  deed 
dated  at,  165. 

,  manor  of,  393. 

,  Larkeby  and  Caldecote  in, 

165. 

Coleshulle.    See  Coleshill,  Colshulle. 

Coleville.    See  Colville. 

Colewell,  Nicholas,  462,  463. 

Colewille,  Colewyll,   See  Colwell. 

Colkyrke,  Henry  de,  474. 

CoUan,  Alan,  tenant  in  chief,  3. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


543 


Colle,  Thomas  do,  ganger  of  wines 
at  Chester  and  in  Ireland,  1 32. 

Cj.  Cole. 

Colles,  Ralph,  4(58,  469. 

CoUesleyo,  John  do,  162. 

Walter  do,  162. 

Collcville.    See  Colville. 

CoUingtree,  Colj-ngtroughe,  Colyn- 
troughe,  Colyntre,  co.  North- 
ampton, 346,  435. 

.......  advowson  of,  435. 

Collynge,  William,  citizen  of  Here- 
ford,  274. 

Cf.  Colyn. 

Colman,  W^illiam,  73. 

Colmoro.    See  Coolmore. 

Colmpstok,  Clompstok,  John,  clerk, 
69. 

Colnbrook,  Colbroke  [cos.  Bucking- 
ham and  Middlesex],  471, 
473. 

Colne,  Earls,  co.  Essex,  manor  of, 
243. 

Engaine,      Engayne,      co. 

Essex,  43. 

,  manor  and  advowson 

of,  412. 

,  White,  CO.  Essex,  43. 

St.     Aldwin,      Seint    Alde- 

wyne,   co.  Gloucester,  manor 
of,  230. 

Colne,  river,  co.  Essex,  creeks  etc. 
in,  157. 

Colonia,  Margaret,  Margery  daughter 
of  Nicholas  de,  387. 

, ,  idiot,  332,  333. 

,  Nicholas  de,  387. 

,    William   de,    canon    of    St. 

Paul's,  London,  475. 

, ,  clerk,  92. 

Coloyne,  John  de,  117. 

Colpeper.    See  Colepeper. 

Colrithe,  Roger,  486. 

Colrugge  [parish  of  Hampstead 
Norris],  co.  Berks,  40. 

Colshulle,  Coleshulle,  Richard  son 
of  Thomas,  Thomas  de,  393. 

,  Thomas,  393. 

Colston  Bassett,  Basset,  co.  Notting- 
ham,  314. 

Colthorpe  [in  Spofforth]  co.  York, 
245. 

,  manor  of,  245. 

Columbers,  Alice  de,   1 84. 

,  Eleanor  de,  344,  345. 

, wife  of  Philip  de,  237. 

,  John  de,  498. 

,  Matthew  de,  498. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  heirs  of,  497. 

,  Sir  Philip  de,  237. 


Colville,    Colevillo,    Collevillo,    Col- 

vylo,    Cicelj'   wife   of    Robert 

de,  427. 

,  John,  388. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  of  Walsoken,  knight, 

267. 
,  Margaret  (de  Bassingbourn) 

wife  of  Walter  de,  431. 

,  Porina  wife  of  John,  388. 

,  Robert  do,  194,  427. 

,  ....  son  of  Walter  de,  431. 

,  Roger,  388. 

,   Walter   de,   knight,   tenant 

in  chief,  431. 
Colwell,     Colewille,     Colewyll,     co. 

Devon,    manor    of,    74,    180, 

206. 
Colvn,  John,  490. 
..."...,  William,  48. 

Cf.  Collynge,  Colyns. 

Colyngtroughe.    See  CoUingtree. 
Colyns,  John,  342. 

Cf.  Colyn. 

Colyntre,    Colyntroughe.      See   Col- 

lingtree. 
Combe,  Coumbe,  co.  Warwick,  John 

abbot  of,   198. 
,     Castle,     Castelcombe     [co. 

Wilts],  parson  of.    See  Hem- 

myng,  William. 

See  Coombe. 

Combeneville.    See  Coombe. 
Combs,      Combys,      Coumbes,      co. 

Suffolk,  54. 

,  manor  of,  235. 

Comene.    See  Romney. 

comitatus  Insule.     See  Lisle,  honour 

of. 
Common  Bench,    See  Bench. 
CompeAvorth,  Thomas  de,  67. 
Compton,  CO.  Berks,  40. 
Compton,   John  de,   knight,   tenant 

in  chief,  361. 

,  Richard  son  of  John  de,  361. 

,  Walter  de,  chaplain,  217. 

Comyn,  John,  248. 

,  Roger,  of  Bunsliill,  farmer 

of  subsidy,  281. 
Conan, William  son  of,  chaplain,  210. 
Condestede,  Jolin,  fisher,  of  London, 

58. 
Condy,  Alice  sister  of  William  son 

of  John,  of  Sandwich,  445. 
,  Constance  sister  of  William 

son  of  John,  of  Sandwich,  445. 
,    Idonea    sister     of    William 

son    of    John,    of    Sandwich, 

445. 
,    .John    son    of    William,    of 

Sandwich,    445. 


544 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Condy — cont. 

,  Margaret  (Crobbe)  sister  of 

William  son  of  John,  of  Sand- 
wich, 445. 
,    ....    (Makenhad)  sister  of 

William     son     of     John,     of 

Sandwich,  445. 
,    William    son    of    John,    of 

Sandwich,  445. 
Conghomescroft,        Conghomisyerd. 

See  Kanghams  ? 
Congresbury,    co.    Somerset,   manor 

of,  4. 
Conington,    Conyngton,    co.    Hunt- 
ingdon, manor  of,  366,  464. 
Conquet,  le,  [dep.  Finisterre]  ?  Seint 

Gilmyn    of    Conk,    Brittanj', 

port  of,  102,  103. 
Conyngesholm,  John  de,  274. 
Conyngton.     See  Conington. 
Coo,  Adam,  312. 
Cook,   Cok,   Coke,   Adam,   of  Little 

Gaddesden,    207. 

Bernard,  381. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Guildford,  71. 

,  Edmund,  405. 

,  Henry,  of  Ely,  coroner  for 

CO.  Cambridge,  245. 

,  John,  391,  394. 

,  John  le,  48. 

,  of  Bole,  434. 

,  Margery  wife  of  John  le,  22. 

,  Peter,  396,  397,  479,  .50.3. 

,    Ralph   son   of  Thomas,  of 

Dorchester,  191,  192. 

,  Richard  the,  162. 

,  Robert,  6. 

,  Thomas,  191. 

,  ....,  of  Welling,  383. 

,  William,  of  Amersham,  280. 

Cookham,  Cokham,  co.  Berks,  367. 

,  mills,  weirs  etc.  in,  368. 

,  Ray  [mill],  le  Revelond  in, 

367. 
Cooling,  Cowling  by  Roucestre,  co. 

Kent,  knight's  fee  in,  495. 
Coombe,    Combe    [in    Enford],    co. 

Wilts,  27. 
,  Combenevnie  [in  Kingston], 

CO.  Surrey,  manor  of,  burnt, 

452,  453. 
Coolmore,  Colmore  [barony  of  Kin- 
sale,  CO.  Cork],  manor  of,  95. 
Copt    Hall,    Coppithall    [parish    of 

Epping],  CO.  Essex,  188. 
,    parker    of.        See   Pernyll, 

John. 
Coraunt,  John,   citizen  of  London, 

269. 
Corbet,  Fulk,  45,  237,  344. 


Corbet — cont. 

,  John,  357. 

,  Robert,  knight,  394, 

,  Roger,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Worcester,  480. 
Corboyle,  Joan  wife  of  Lawrance  de, 
'372. 

,  Lawrence  de,  372. 

Corbridge,    Corbrig,    Corbrigge,    co. 

Northumberland,    manor    of, 

140,  361,  438. 
Corby,  co.  Lincoln,  manor  of,  427. 
,  Corkeby  [in  Wetheral],  co. 

Cumberland,  3,  38. 

,  manor  of,  4. 

,  Brigende  in,  38. 

Corby,  Joan  wife  of  Robert  de,  213, 

214. 

,  Robert  de,  86,  213,  214,  300. 

,  William  de,  146. 

Cf.  Corkeby. 

Corbyn,  Walter,  tailor  of  London, 

188. 
Corfe  Castle  [co.  Dorset],  constable 

of  castle  of,  85. 
Corkeby.    See  Corby. 
Corkeby,  Simon  de,  38. 

Cf.  Corby. 

corn,  8,  232,  293,  407,  453,  454. 
,  proclamation  forbidding  ex- 
port of,  owing  to  bad  season, 

288. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  to  Scotland,  370. 

cornage.     See  taxation. 

Cornard,  Great,  Great  Cornerd  [co. 

Suffolk],  manor  of,  186. 
,   Little,   Little  Cornerd  [co. 

Suffolk],  manor  of,  186. 
Cornculle,  Robert,  498. 
Comer,  John,  of  Leverington,  267. 
Cornerd.    See  Cornard. 
Cornewaille,  Cornewaylle,  Comubia, 

Andrew,  Andrew  de,  82,  84. 

,  Joan  wife  of  William  de,  182. 

,  John,  293. 

,   Thomas,    burgess   of   High 

Wycombe,   169. 

,  William  de,  182. 

Cornwall,  Cornewaille,  103,  260,  290, 

365. 

,  archdeaconry  of,  125,  126. 

,  customers  etc.  of,  137. 

,  dry  fish  of,  76. 

,  diike  of.     See  Edward. 

,  guardians  of  the  peace  and 

justices  of  oyer  and  terminer 

in,  391. 

,  justices  of  assize  in,  166,  167. 

,  keeper  of  ports  and  passages 

in.    See  Havenere,  Thomae. 


GENERAL  INDKX. 


545 


Cornwall — cont. 

knights  of  tho  shiro  of ,  168, 

273,  480. 

,  merchants  of,  368. 

,  sheriff  of,  97,  102,  103,  129, 

228,  325,  331,  362,  391. 

,  stanipago  of  tin  in,  113. 

Cornwell,  co.  Oxford,  2. 

coroners,  election  of,  10,  16,  29, 
30,  94,  97,  100,  101,  129,  130, 
142,  143,  145,  156,  217,  219, 
221,  228,  229,  245,  247,  259, 
321,  325,  331,  335,  346,  347, 
348,  360,  362,  413,  414,  418, 
428,  429,  433. 

,  maintenance  of  number  of, 

225,  335. 

corrodies,  204,  213. 

corruption,  prohibition  of,  374. 

Corry,  Walter,  adlierent  of  the 
king's  Scottish  enemies,  3. 

Corston  [co.  Somerset],  266. 

,  manor  of,  266. 

Cortenhale,  Margaret  wife  of  Richard 
de,  277,  278. 

,     Ricliard     de,     the     king's 

Serjeant  at  arms,  277,  278. 

Gorton,  co.  Wilts,  manor  of,  9. 

Corunna,  Groyne,  la  Groyne,  Spain, 
430. 

,  ship  of,  430. 

Gorveyser,  John  le,  207. 

Gory,  John,  clerk,  211,  447. 

Gosgrove,  Couesgrave,  co.  North- 
ampton, 384. 

Gosington,  Great  Gosington,  parishes 
of  Aylesford  and  Boxley,  co. 
Kent,  manor  of,  65. 

,   deeds  dated  at   65,  66. 

,      parishes      of      Northfieet, 

Southfleet   and  Swanscombe, 
CO,  Kent,  manor  of,  65. 

Gossington,  Cosynton,  co.  Leicester, 
parson  of.  See  Chaworth, 
John. 

,  Cosvnton,  co.  Somerset,  144, 

220." 

Gostantyn,  Roger,  goldsmith  of  Lon- 
don, 203. 

Gostessey,  Gostesey,  Gosteseya  [co. 
Norfolk],  church  of,  47,  67. 

Goston,  John  de,  chaplain,  9. 

Gosyn,  William,  brewer,  of  Aldgate 
street,  184. 

Gosynton.    See  Gossington. 

Gosynton,  Gusyngton,  Stephen,  128. 

,  ....  de,  knight  of  Kent,  65. 

,  William  son  of  Stephen  de, 

knight,  65. 

Cote,  Edmund,  of  Blofield,  255,  259. 


t 


Cotogravo,  William,  William  de, 
citizen  of  London,  82,  84. 

Cotehull,  William,   464. 

Gotenham.    Sec  Gottonham. 

Gotorel,  lsab(sl  wife  of  John,  of  Wink- 
field,   377. 

,  John,  396. 

,  Roger,  396. 

Gotos.    See  Goate,  Goton. 

Gotes,  Thomas,  Thomas  de,  13,  18, 
109. 

Gotesford.    See  Gottisford. 

Gotesford,  Roger  de,  knight,  161, 
182. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  sheriff  of  cos.  Oxford 

and  Berks,  133. 

Gotherstoke.    .See  Gotterstock. 

Gotom,  John  de,  of  Lincolnshire, 
274. 

Goton,  Gotes,  co.  Cambridge,  manor 
and  advowson  of,  411. 

Gotstede,  Joan  wife  of  William  do, 
176. 

Gottenham,  Gotenham,  co.  Gam- 
bridge,    493. 

,  manor  of,  493. 

Gotterstock,  Gotherstoke  [co.  North- 
ampton], Robert  chaplain  of 
chantry  of,  366. 

Cottesmore,  Gotysmere,  Gotysmor 
[co.  Rutland],  366.  464. 

Cottingham,  Cotyngham,  co.  York, 
245. 

,  Newland  in,  245. 

Gottisford,  Gotesford,  co.  Oxford, 
214. 

Cotum.    See  Coatham. 

Cotyngham.    >S'ee  Cottingham. 

Cotyngham,  John  de,  parson  of 
North  Gave,  208. 

,  Richard  de,  king's  serjeant, 

236. 

Gotysmere,  Gotysmor.  See  Cottes- 
more. 

Coubrigge,  Coubrugge,  Thomas, 
Thomas  de,  261,  405. 

Couey,  Ingelram  de,  143. 

,   ,  earl  of  Bedford,  246, 

336,  403,  414,  430. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  steward  of  the  Isle  of 

Wight,  430. 

,  Ingelram  lord  of,  59,  60,  145, 

222,  223,  403. 

,  Isabel  wife  of  Ingelram  de. 

See  Isabel  the  king's  daughter. 

,  Robert  de,  59,  145. 

,  William  de,  7,  222. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  baron  of  Kendal,  240. 

Coue,  Henry,  160. 

de,  271. 

S  35 


546 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Couelee,  Couele,  Elizabeth  wife  of 
Thomas  de,  242. 

,  Joan  de,  182. 

,  Robert  de,  parson  of  Slim- 
bridge,  47. 

,  Thomas  de,  242. 

Couelegh.    See  Cowley. 

Couesgrave.    See  Cosgrove. 

Coughtele,  Stephen,  vicar  of  Hor- 
sham, 306. 

Coulyngle.    See  Covelingly. 

Coumbe.   See  Combe. 

Coumbes.    See  Combs. 

Coun,  Thomas,  Thomas  de,  knight, 
50,  372. 

Cf.  Covene. 

council,  the,  4,  17,  18,  29,  34,  57,  59, 
60,  61,  63,  71,  74,75,90,  103, 
107,  111,  113,  114,  115,  116, 
120,  121,  125,  131,  135,  151, 
152,  155,  159,  177,  181,  201, 
205,  209,  223,  224,  227,  237, 
238,  239,  241,  257,  258,  259, 
263,  264,  265,  279,   289,   290, 

291,  297,  298,  302,  304,  308, 
328,  334,  344,  345,  351,  368, 
376,  385,  388,  392,  393,  402, 
403,  404,  405,  407,  424,  426, 
427,  429,  445,  460,  465,  467, 
478,  482,  492,  499,  500. 

assembly  of  wise  men  of,  in 

star  chamber,  237. 

,  great,  499. 

,    great    and    wise    men    of. 

499. 

,  members  of,  named,  494. 

,  the  learned  of,  151. 

,  wine  for,  129. 

See  Ireland. 

Ooupeland,  Coupland,  Joan  wife  of 

John  de,  8,   59,    60,    80,    182, 

183,  19t,   195,   199,  240,  288, 

292,  403. 

,  John  de,  8,  240. 

,  murder  of,  292. 

,     Ricliard     de,     the     uncle, 

coroner  for  Cumberland,  331. 
Couper,  Roger,  282. 
Coupland.    See  Coupeland. 
Couracowe,  Emma,  283. 
Courtenay,    Courteneye,    Hugh    de, 

earl  of  Devon,  175,  443. 
,  Hugh  son  of  Thomas  de,  99, 

180. 
,  Margaret  wife  of  Hugli  de, 

earl  of  Devon,  175. 
,  Thomas  de,  tenant  in  chief, 

74,  99,  180,  266. 
Courtgate,  John,  65. 
Couseby,  John  de,  57. 


Couton,  William  son  of  Simon  do, 

143. 
Covelingly,  Coulyngle  [in  Godstone, 

CO.  Siu-rey],  manor  of,  188. 
Covene,  Thomas  son  of  Richard  de, 

311. 

Cf.  Coun. 

Coveney,  Covoneye  [co.  Cambridge], 

deed  dated  at,  493. 
Covenham  [co.  Lincoln],  405. 
Coventre,  John  de,  392. 
Coventry,  Coventre  [co.   Warwick], 

71,  198,  281. 

,  enclosure  of,  146. 

mayor  and  bailiffs  of,   146. 

,  prior  of,  89,  210,  468. 

Coventry  and  Lichfield,   bishop  of. 

See  Stretton,  Robert. 
Coverdale,  co.  York,  361. 
Coverham,  co.  York,  Carlton  High- 
dale,  Carleton  in,  361. 
Cowherd,  John  le,  162. 
Cowley,    Couelegh,    co.    Gloucester, 

manor  of,  437. 
Cowling  by  Roucestre.    See  Cooling. 
Cowton,  East,  Estcouton,  co.  York, 

143. 
,     South,     Southtouton,     co. 

York,  245. 
Coxwold,   CO.   York,   Byland  abbey 

in,  328,  329. 
Craan.  See  Crane. 
Cradock,  Roger,  bishop  of  Llandaff, 

210. 
Crakanthorp,    William    de,    coroner 

for  Westmoreland,   413,   418. 
Crakehall,  Crakhall,  co.  York,  manor 

of,  361. 
Cranbrook,    Cranebroke,    co.   Kent, 

300,  301. 
Crane,  Craan,  Hugh,  Hugh  le,  484. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  Winchester, 

188. 
Cranebrok,  Richard  de,  of  Kent,  87. 
Cranebroke.    See  Cranbrook. 
Craneby,     Graneby,     Richard     de, 

clerk,  318. 
Cranford,  Craunford,  co.  Middlesex, 

162. 
St.   Andrew,   Craneford,   co. 

Northampton,  fee  in,  497. 
Cranham.    See  Croham. 
Cranwich,     Cranous     [co.     Norfolk], 

Robert  parson  of.  320. 
Cratfield,     Crattefeld,     co.     Suffolk, 

manor  of,  439. 
Craule.      See     CraAvley,      Husborne 

Crawley. 
Craunfeld,  Richard  de,  271,  386. 
Craunford.   See  Cranford, 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


547 


Craunford,  Robert,  496. 

,  William  do,  490. 

Crawlt'y,    Cranio    [in    Witney],    co. 

Oxford,  475. 

Crawie  [co.  Sussex],  188. 

,     North,     CO.     Buckingham, 

Great     Crawley,     Cranio     in, 

manor  and  ad\'owson  of,  41;'). 
,  .  .  .  . ,  Little  Crawley,  Craule 

in,  435. 

See  Husborne  Crawley. 

Cray,   Foots,   Fotescreie,   co.    Kent, 

deed  dated  at,  384. 
,  St.  Paul's,  Paulynes  Creye, 

CO.  Kent,  fees  in.  495. 
Crede,  William  of  Hilgay,  385. 
creeks  etc.,  orders  to  scare) i,  51. 
Creeksea,    Carykcshrth,    co.    Essex, 

manor  of,  469. 
Creeting    All    Saints,    Cretyng    All 

Saints  [co.  Suffolk],  54. 

St.  Mary  [co.  Suffolk],  54. 

St.  Olave  [co.  SuffoUi],  54. 

St.  Peter  [co.  Suffolk],  54. 

Crendon,  Long,  Grendon,  co.  Buck- 
ingham, 319. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  manor,  of  27. 

Creesville,  Richard  de,  clerk,  45. 
Cressv,  John  de,  403. 

.\,  Ralph,  49. 

Cressyngham,    John    de,    citizen    of 

London,  78,  79. 

,  John  son  of  John  de,  78,  79. 

,  Maud  wife  of  John  de,  78. 

,  ....  wife   of     John    son    of 

Johnde,  78,  79. 
Cretyng.  See  Creeting. 
Cretyng,      Margaret      daughter      of 

Richard,  54. 
,  Maud  wife  of  Edmund    de, 

223. 

,  Richard,  54. 

Crey.  William  de,  495. 

Creye,  Paulines.    See  Cray. 

Crich,   Crnclie   [co.   Derby],   warden 

of  chantry  of  St.  Nicholas  and 

St.    Katherine.       See    Davy, 

Richard. 
Criekhowell,  Crughowel  [co.  Brecon], 

keeper  of  lordship  of,  371. 
Criour,  Stephen,  417. 
Crisp,  Richard,  277. 
Crispyn,  Cryspyng,  Robert,  474. 

,  Thomas,  of  Barton,  291. 

Crobbe,    Margaret    (Condy)   wife   of 

Robert,  445. 

,  Robert,  445. 

Crocker  ton,     Crokerton     [parish     of 

Longbridge      Deverill],       co. 

Wilts,  193.  194. 


Crocombe.     See  Beer  Crocombe. 

Croft,  CO.  York,  191,  502. 

,     parson,     rector    of.         See 

Beverle,  Richard  de. 
,    Stapleton,     Stapulton    in, 

502. 
Croftland,   Crofti*  [in  Brixliain,   co. 

Devon],  103. 
Croliam,  Cranham  in  Croydon  and 

Sanderstead  [co.  Surrey],  401. 
Croidon.    See  Croydon. 
Croke,  John,  of  Grove,  402. 

67.  Crook,  Crouk. 

Crokedayk,  John,  30. 
Crokerton.    See  Crockerton. 
Cromford      [in      Wirksworth],      co. 

Derby,  18. 
Cromwell,  Amice  wife  of  Ralph  do, 

37. 
,     Maud     (Bernak)     wife     of 

Ralpli  de,  228,  322,  323. 

,  Ralph  de,  228,  322,  323. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight,  68. 

Crondal,  co.  Southampton,  parson  of. 

See  Kaerwent,  Nicholas  de. 
Crondale.   See  Crimdale. 
Crook,  Peter  atto  (alias  de  Wend- 

lyngburgh),    148. 

Cf.  Croke,  Crouk. 

Crophill.    »SVe  Cropwell. 

Cropredy,    Croppery    [co.    Oxford], 

prebendary  of.     See  Paxston, 

Thomas  de. 
Cropwell   Bishop,   Crophill   Bisshop, 

CO.  Nottingham,  314. 
Cros,    Alice    wife    of    William, 

monger  of  London,  64. 

,  Thomas  atte,  489. 

Cf.  Crouche. 

Crotebruge.    See  Cnrbridge. 

Croton.    See  Groton. 

Crotoy,   Le,   Crotoye   [France, 

Pas-de-Calais],        works 

castle  of,  111. 
Crouche,  Nicholas  atte,  373. 
,     Thomas     atte,     citizen 

London,  249,  263. 

Cf.  Cros. 

Crovicheman,  Thomas,  269. 
Crouk,    John,    coroner    for    Oxford- 
shire,  156. 

Cf.  Croke,  Crook. 

Croukerne,  Christina  wife  of  John  de, 

144,  220,  221. 
,    Cicely   (Childehey)   wife    of 

John  de,  220. 

,  Johnde,  220. 

Croun,  John,  of  Beelsby,  87. 
Crouthorn,  Matthew  de,  335. 
,  Robert  de,  335. 


fish- 


dep. 
at 


of 


548 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Crowan,  St.  Crewenna,  co.  Corn- 
wall, Pascoe  vicar  of,  390,  391. 

Crowe,  Henry,  of  Newbnry,  farmer 
of  subsidy,  281. 

Crowshall,  Croweshall  in  Attle- 
borough,  CO.  Norfolk,  manor 
of,  5. 

Croxby  [co.  Lincoln],  87,  88. 

Croxton  Kerrial,  co.  Leicester,  abbot 
of,  358,  359. 

,  provision  of   chaplains 

in    abbey  of,  359. 

,  William  abbot  of,  359. 

,    Beskaby,    Bescoldeby 

in,    358. 

,    South,   CO.    Leicester,   426, 

427. 

Croxton,  William  de,  365. 

Croydon  [co.  Surrey],  401. 

,  bailiff  of.  See  Multon,  Wil- 
liam de. 

,   vicar  of.      >See  Hamuldon, 

John  de. 

,  Bensham,  Bencham  in,  401. 

Croydon,  Croidon,  Groidon,  Richard, 
Richard  de,  493. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  268. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  fishmonger  of  London, 

92. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  sheriff  of  I-ondon,  170, 

269. 

Croyne,  la  Croyne.     See  Corunna. 

Croyser,  William,  justice  of  the 
forest  in  co.   Lancaster,  476. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Surrey,  480. 

Cruche.    See  Crich. 

Crudwell,  Cruddewell  [co.  Wilts], 
lordship  of,  349. 

,  West,   Westcruddewell    [co. 

Wilts],   369. 

Crughowel.    See  Crickhowell. 

CruUe,  John  de,  279. 

,  Margaret  wife  of  Jolin  de, 

279. 

,  Sir  Robert,  366. 

Crundale,  Crondale,  Grundale,  co. 
Kent,  300,  301. 

advowson  of,  230. 

,  manor  of,  230. 

,  Tremworth  in,  230,  415. 

,  Vanne  in,  230. 

,  Winchcoombe  in^  230,  231. 

Crus,  Robert  de,  serjeant  of  cos. 
Dublin  and  Louth,  391. 

Crych,  William,  citizen  of  Bridg- 
water, 481. 

Cryspyng.    See  Crispyn. 

Cubberle,   Cubberley.    See  Coberly. 

Cublesdon.    See  Kibblestone. 


Cuerdale,     Kynerdale      [parish      of 

Blackburn],     co.      Lancaster, 

145,  240,  319. 
Cullicomb,     Colecombe     [parish     of 

Lamerton],  co.  Devon,  deeds 

dated  at,  175. 
Culpepyr.    See  Colepeper. 
Cumberland,  covmty  of,  396. 

cornage  in,  31,  96,  416. 

,  escheators  in.     See  Denton, 

Richard  de  ;    Nessefeld,  Wil- 
liam  de  ;     Reygate,   William 

de  ;    Scotherskelf,  John  de. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  169, 

273,  480. 
,  sheriff  of,  1 10,  138,  142,  143, 

229,  246,  288,  331,  383,  403, 

413,  429. 

subsidy  in,  281. 

Curbridge,  Crotebruge  [in  Witney], 

CO.  Oxford,  475. 
Curdworth,  co.  Warwick,  Cat  Hill, 

KateshuU  in,  51. 
CuiTant,  John,  54. 
Curry,   North,  co.    Somerset,  Lillis- 

don,  Lvillesdon  in,  489. 
Cursoun,Hugh,  of  [East]Carlton,400. 
otirtains,  cargo  of,  316. 
Curtays,    Curteys,    Agnes    wife    of 

Roger,  385. 

,  Albroda  wife  of  John,  298. 

,  Isabel  wife  of  William,  476. 

,  John,  175,  192,  298,  357. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Bedford,  480. 

,   ,  of  Wymington,  298. 

,  Nicholas,  fisher,  57. 

,  Roger,  of  Downton,  385. 

,  William,  of  Sutton  Courtney, 

476. 
Curthuhir,  Thomas  de,  coroner  for 

Cornwall,  325,  331. 
Curtlynton,  Hugh,  476. 
Cusancia,  William  de,  king's  clerk, 

125. 
Cusaunce,  Peter,  knight,  502. 
Cusyngton.    See  Cosynton. 
Cuthbert,  Maud  servant  of,  282. 
Cuttaple,  Robert,  285. 


D 


Dabernoun,    John,    knight    of    the 

shire  of  Devon,  168,  273. 
Dabberbury.    See  Abberbury. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


549 


Dabrichecourt,  Elizabeth  wife  of 
Eustace  do,  4,  355. 

,  Eustajo  do,  4,  355. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight,  469. 

, ,  of  Surrey,  97. 

Dadyngton,  John,  citizen  of  Oxford, 
481. 

Daglingworth,  Dagelyngworth,  co. 
Gloucester,  manor  of,  466. 

Dalby,  Walter  de,  receiver  of  moneys 
for  wages  of  soldiers  in  Ire- 
land, 10. 

,  . .  .  . ,  treasurer  of  Ireland,  4. 

Daldoun.    See  Aldoun. 

Dale,  Thomas  de,  de  la,  397. 

knight,  86,  493. 

Dalemaigne,  Agnes  wife  of  Heniy, 
309. 

,  Henry,  king's  yeoman,  309. 

Dalingrugge,  Dalyngerugge,  Dalyn- 
gregge,  Dalyngrigge,  Roger, 
85,  188,  272,  472. 

Cf.  Elinrigge. 

Dalscote,  Darlescote,  Derlescote  [in 
Pattishain,  co.  Northampton, 
307,  434. 

Dalston,  co.  Cumberland,  Raughton, 
Raghton  in,  416. 

Dalton,  John  de,  chaplain,  428. 

,  Peter  de,  commissary  of  the 

bishop  of  Lincoln,  414. 

,     William     de,     clerk,      151, 

205. 

Dalyngerugge,  Dalyngregge,  Dal- 
yngrigge.     See  Dalingrugge. 

Dam,  Constant ine  del,  333,  387. 

,    Joan    wife    of    Constantino 

del,  333. 

Damisele,  Damysel,  Elizabeth  wife 
of  John,  23. 

.......  John,  23. 

,  ....  son  of  John,  23. 

Damory,  Dammory,  Damori,  Nicho- 
las, knight,  61. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Oxford,  169,  273,  480. 

,  Peter,  247. 

,  Richard,  knight,  182. 

Cf.  Amory. 

Damysel.    See  Damisele. 

Dane,  Richard  atte,  butcher,  18. 

danegeld,  341. 

Danesfort,  Dunfert,  co.  Kilkenny, 
fishery  at,  424. 

,  manor  of,  424. 

,  mill  of,  424. 

Daniel,  Danyel,  Simon,  46. 

,  WUliam,  269. 

,  merchant  of  Pem- 
broke, 322,  323,  368. 


Danseyo,  Dauntese,  John,  220. 

,   ....  de,  knight,  309. 

,  Walter,  220. 

, ,  of  Wilts,  270. 

,    William,   220. 

Danvers.    Sec  Dauvers. 
Danyel.    See  Daniel. 
Dapuldrefold.  See  Apuldrefold. 
Darches,  Richard,  61. 

Cf.  Arches. 

Darcy,     Elizabeth     wife     of     John 

le  fitz,  356. 

,  John,  15,  31,  96,  416. 

,   knight,  356. 

,lefitz,  143,  356. 

Dardres,  Isold  wife  of  John  de,  of 

Turvey,  261. 
Darfield,  Derfeld,  co.  York,  church 

of,  42,  58. 

,  deed  dated  at,  42. 

Darlescote.    See  Dalscote. 
Darrundell.    See  Arundell. 
Dartford,  Derteford,  co.  Kent,  66,  69, 

185,  288,  384. 

,  bailiffs  of,  215. 

,   chapel  of  St.   Edmund  the 

king  in,  185. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  185,  288. 

,  Maud  prioress  of,  66. 

,   prioress   and  sisters   of   the 

house    of    preachers    in,    234, 

235. 

,  Portbridge  in,   185. 

Dartmouth,  Dertemuth  [co.  Devon], 

bailiffs  of,  91,  137,  158. 

,  burgesses  of,   158. 

customers  in,  137,  334. 

,  ferry  at,  163. 

,  mayor  of,  158. 

Darundell.     See  Arundell. 
Dasshebournham.     See  Asshebourn- 

ham. 
Daubeneye,  Ralph,  clerk,  323. 
,  parson  of  Broughton, 

323. 

,  William,  127. 

Cf.  Albini. 

Dauboney,  Giles,  knight,  271. 
Daudele,  Daudeleye.    See  Audeleye. 
Daukynson,    Richard,    239. 
Daumvers,       Margaret       Bourhunte 

wife  of  William,  278,  279. 

Cf.  Dauvers. 

Daunax,  Roger,  285. 

Daundelyn,  John,  366,  464. 

Dauntese.    See  Danseye. 

Daunvers.    See  Dauvers. 

Dautre,  Thomas,  42. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  the  king's  Serjeant   at 

arms,  1. 


550 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Daiitre — eouf. 

,    Walter,    parson   of   R other- 
field,  456. 
Dauvers,    Danvers,    Daunvers,    Ed- 
mund, 107,  369,  462,  463. 
,     ....     son    of    Robert,    of 

Winterbourne,  271. 
,   Isabel    (Swanlond)    wife   of 

Edmund,  35. 

Cf.  Daumvers. 

Daventre,   Simon,   son  of  John  de, 

of  Northamptonshire,   476. 
Daventry,  Daventre,  co.  Northamp- 
ton,  127,  128,  134,  235,  267, 

316. 

,  court  of,  316. 

,  lord  of.     See  Fitz  Walter, 

Thomas. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,  128. 

David,  Master  Thomas,  125. 
Davy,  John,   of  Chilvvell,   chaplain, 

142. 
,  Richard,  warden  of  chantry 

of      St.     Nicholas     and     St. 

Katherine,  Crich,  492. 

,  Robert,  of  Grimsby,  441. 

Da  we,  John,  391. 

,  William,  131,  132,  391. 

Day,  Peter,  of  Patrington,  390. 

,  Stephen,  of  Patrington,  390. 

Dean,    East,    co.    Sussex,    Berling, 

Brydlyng  in,  414. 
Dean,  Dene,  forest  of,  co.  Gloucester, 

103. 
,  . . .  . ,  keeper  of.     See  Bi'iene, 

Guy  de. 
Debenham,  Gilbert  de,  497. 

,  John,  312. 

Deem,  Henry,  195. 

Cf.  Dem. 

Deffrencloit.     See  Dyffryn  Clwyd. 
Delce,      Great,      Great     Delse      by 

Rochester    [co.    Kent],     189, 

336. 
Delly,  Alice,  262. 
Delse.    See  Delce. 
Delves,  John  de,  400. 
...,..,    ....,  knight,   42,  378,  465, 

466,  475. 
Dem,  Hugh,  clerk,  465. 

Cf.  Deem. 

Demmesbury,  John  de,  355. 
Denbigh,    Dynebegh   [co.    Denbigh], 

lord  of,  371. 
Dencourt,  Deyncourt,  Milisent  wife 

of  W^illiam,  23,  28. 

,  William,  23. 

, lord  of  Granby,  331.         ' 

Dende,  William,  391.  | 

Dene.    See  Dean.  \ 


Dene,  Henry  atte,  462,  463. 

Deneford.    See  Dornford. 

Denewyk.     See  Denwick. 

Deneys.    See  Denys. 

Dengayne,  Engayne,  John,  knight, 
291. 

,   .  .  .  .,  the  elder,    411. 

,  Katherine  wife  of  Thomas, 

410,   411,   412. 

,  Thomas,  knight,  411,  426. 

Denham  [co.  Buckingham],  268. 

le  Southland,   le  Wetmede 

and  le  Southmede  in,  160. 

Denham,  John  de,  400. 

Walter  de,  48. 

Denlegh,  John  de,  475. 

Denmark,  368,  417. 

Dennington,  Dymyngton  [co.  Suf- 
folk], 446. 

Denom,  Alice  wife  of  Edmund  de, 
173. 

Edmund  de,  17l 

Dent,  Richard,  464. 

Denton,  co.  Norfolk,  228. 

Denton,  Elizabeth  wife  of  John  de, 
440. 

,  John  de,  440. 

,  . .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Cumberland,   480. 

,  John  son  of  John  de,  440. 

,  Richard  de,  31,  32,  95,  96, 

416. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  escheator  in  Cumber- 
land,  416. 

,  Robert  de,  chaplain,  174. 

Denver,  Denvere  [co.  Norfolk],  385. 

Denwick,  Denewyk,  co.  Northum- 
berland, 438. 

Denys,  Deneys,  Richard,  370. 

,  Simon  le,  472. 

Cf.  Enys. 

deodands,  240. 

Depham,  Thomas,  462,  463. 

Derby  [co.  Derby],  bailiffs  of,  130. 

Derby,  county  of,  492. 

,  escheator  in.  See  Frotheleye, 

William  de  ;  Savage,  Edmund. 

knights  of  the  shire  of,  169, 

400. 

,  subsidy  in,  380. 

Derby,  Robert  de,  118,  122,  123. 

,    .....   treasurer's    clerk    in 

receipt  of  exchequer,  499. 

Dereham  [co.  Norfolk],  203. 

,  West  ,Derham  [co.  Norfolk], 

abbot  and  convent  of,  373. 

Derfeld.    See  Darfield. 

Derham.    See  Dereham,  Dirham. 

Derk,  Thomas,  163. 

Derlaston,  Richard  de,  71. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


661 


Derlescoto.     See  Ualscote. 
Ddrnodon,  William,  86. 
Derneford.     See  Durnford. 
Dersham,  Robert  do,  of  Suffolk,  RO. 
Derteford.    See  Dartford. 
Dertemuth.    See  Dartmouth. 
Desborough,    Desburgh,    Deseburgh 

[co.  Nortliamptor.],  42,  366. 
Descote.     See  Eastcote. 
Deseburgh.     See  Desborough. 
Desmond,  Dessemuiid,  countess.    See 

FitzGerald,  Beatrice. 
Despenser,    Alice  wife  of   Hugh  le, 

424,  425. 

,  Anne  le,  425. 

,  Edward  coutJin  of  Hugh  le, 

39,  418. 
,    Edward    le,    lord    of    Gla- 
morgan, 371,  403. 
,    .  .  .  . ,    lord   of   Morgannwg, 

371. 
,    Hugh  le,  38,  39,  418,  424, 

425. 
,    . .  . . ,    the   younger,    forfei- 
ture of,  113. 

Philip  le,  274. 

,  ....  son  of  Philip  le,  11. 

Dessemund.    See  Desmond. 

Deuhurst,  William,  268. 

Deumars,      Deumarcz,      Deuxmars, 

Bartholomew,    197,   198,  201, 

202,  205. 
Deveneshire.    See  Devon. 
Dovenissh,        Devenysshe,        John, 

skinner  of  London,   97,    211, 

469. 

Thomas,  302. 

Devon,  countv  of,  Deveneshire,  64, 

65,  70,  "95,  175,  204,  392,  400. 

dry  fish  of,  76. 

,    earl    of.       See    Courtenay, 

Hugh  de. 
,  escheator  in.      See  Cheyne, 

Thomas ;     Hody,    Richard. 
justices  of  assize  in,  73,  74, 

264,  266. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  168, 

273,  480. 
sheriff  of,  97,  138,  209,  259, 

321,  362. 
Deyncourt.    See  Dencourt. 
Deynham,    Margaret    de,    otherwise 

Douuedale,   359,  360. 

Cf.  Dynham. 

Dichaude,  John  de,   195. 

Dickley,    Dykelee    [in    Mistley],    co. 

Essex,  fee  in,  496. 
Digge,  Dygge,  Joan  wife  of  William, 

173,   188. 
Roger,  87,  188,  289. 


Digge,  Roger — cont. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    knight    of    the  shire 

of  Kent,  272. 
,    W^illiam,    wax   chandler    of 

London,  173,   188. 
Dighton,  William  do,  clerk,  92. 
Dikson,  Richard,  3. 
Dillington,     Dylyngton     [in     Great 

Staughton],  co.   Huntingdon, 

manor  of,  411. 
Dilwyn,   Dilwe  [co.   Hereford],   237, 

238. 
Dimlington,    Dymelton    fin    Easing- 

ton,  CO.  York],  315. 
Dimmogh,  William,  clerk,  503. 

Cf.  Dymmok. 

Dinton,  co.  Buckingham,  Upton  in, 

230. 
Dirham,    Derham,    co.     Gloucester, 

Hinton,  Henton  in,  330. 
Dirkeson,  James,  of  Holland,  16. 
Diryn,    Henry,    of    Gloucestershire, 

372. 
Ditteridge,    Dycherigge,    Bickerigge, 

CO.  Wilts,  457,  458. 
Ditton,  Dytton,  co.  Kent,  301. 

,  manor  of,  300,  305. 

,  Brampton  and  Sifflington  in, 

300,  305 
See  Thames  Ditton,  Wood 

Ditton. 
Ditton,  Dytton,  John  de,  clerk,  379. 
,     .  .  .  . ,    parson    of     Abbots 

Ripton,  401,  461. 
Dobat,  Stephen,  24. 
Dobble,  Ralph,  fisher,  57. 

Cf.  Double. 

Dodebroke,   Edmund,    293. 
Doddinghiirst,       Dodyngherst,       co. 

Essex,  manor  of,  243. 
Doddington,  Dodyngton,  co.  North- 
ampton, 23. 
Dodgeson,  Robert,  neif,  282. 
Dodyngherst.     *See  Doddinghurst. 
Dodyngton.    See  Doddington. 
Dodyngton,   Alexander   son  of  Wil- 
liam de,  360. 
,     Maud     (Laundy)     wife     of 

Thomas  de,   220 

,  William  de,  360. 

Doge,     Litil,     of     West      Coatham, 

285. 
Dolsaly,     Dolsaby,     Dolsely,     Joan 

wife  of  Thomas,  269,  477. 

,  Simon,  93. 

,  Thomas,  citizen  of  London, 

269,  477. 
Domere,  Dummer, Edmund,  Edmund 

de,  257. 
, ,  knight,  205,  489. 


552 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Don,  Nicholas,  440. 

,  Thomas,  clerk,  375. 

Donat,  Nicholas,  269. 

Doncaster,     Doncastre,     Donecastre 

[CO.  York],  387,  488. 
Donewic,  Donewyz.    See  Dunwich. 
Donmowe.     See  Dunmow. 
Donstaple.    See  Dunstable. 
Dontebourne.    See  Duntisborne. 
Donterton.    See  Dunterton. 
Donynton,  Donyngton,  Nicholas,  86. 

, de,  465. 

,  Reynold  de,  254. 

William,  86. 

Dorchester,  Dorchestre,  co.  Dorset, 

164,  204,  399,  402,  484. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  deed  dated  at,  164. 

,  . .  .  . ,  rector    of   All   Saints' 

church.     See  Tanner,  Andrew. 
,    Dorkecestre    [co.    Oxford], 

192. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  deeds  dated  at,    191, 

192. 
Dore,  Roger,  93,  470. 

Cf.  Ore. 

Doreward.    See  Dureward. 
Dorkecestre.     See  Dorchester. 
Dorney,  Dorneye  [co.  Buckingham], 

61. 
Dornford,    Deneford    [in    Wootton], 

CO.  Oxford,  fee  in,  496. 
Dorset,  county  of,   62,  70,  93,   163, 

269,  279,  393. 
,  escheator  in.     See  Bekyng- 

ton,       John      de  ;       Cheyne, 

William. 

,  justices  of  assize  in,  257. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  168, 

273,  480. 
,  sheriff  of,  9,  138,  219,  330, 

331,  481. 
Dorton,   Dourton,   co.   Buckingham, 

manor  of,  436. 
Double,    John,    of    London,    farmer 

of  subsidy,  70.  71,  88. 

Cf.  Dobble. 

Dounaueneye.     See  Down   Ampney. 
Doune,  the.    See  Down. 
Doune,  Richard,  313. 

,  Robert  atte,  64. 

Dounham.    See  Downham. 
Dounton.     See  Downton. 
Dourburgh.     See  Durborough. 
Dourton.    See  Dorton. 
Douuedale,  Margaret    de   Deynham 

otherwise,  359,  360. 

Cf.  Uvedale. 

Dover,  Dovorre  [co.  Kent],  castle  of, 

179. 
,   . .  .  . ,  constable  of,  326. 


Dover,  castle  of — cont. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  repair  of,  236. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ward  of,  415. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  warden  of.    See  Herlo, 

Robert  de  ;  Spigurnell ,  Ralph. 

customers  etc.  of,  137.      See 

also  Reade,  Peter. 

,  honour  of,  415. 

,  letters  close  dated  at,  31. 

,  Maison  Dieu,  master  of,  236. 

,....,....,  and  brethren  of, 

190. 

..-....,  mayor  and  bailiffs  of,  91, 
137. 

priory,  317. 

Dovy,  John,  citizen  of  London,  305, 
306. 

,  mercer  of  London,  300, 

491. 

,  Katherine  wife  of  John,  491. 

,  Mark,  merchant  of  Cornwall, 

102,   103. 

dower,  88,  96,  108,  154,  218,  223, 
226,  248,  29.5,  311,  321,  324, 
332,  337,  338,  345,  346,  347, 
348,  384,  435,  439,  443,  447, 
477,  501. 

,  assignment  of,  4,  9,  10,  17, 

21,  27,  28,  29,  30,  35,  100,  101, 
111,  134,  146,  147,  158,  215, 
221,  239,  246,  248,  261,  262^ 
282-287,  311-313,  339,  346, 
347,  351.  355,  356,  361,  394- 
396,  417,  425,  433,  437,  438, 
439,  454,  458,  475. 

,  plea  of,  374. 

writs  of,  160,  402. 

Down  (farm),  the  Doune  in  West 
Hagbourne,   co.   Berks,   395. 

Down  Ampney,  Dounaueneye  [co. 
Gloucester],  manor  of,   502. 

Downham,  Dounham,  co.  Cam- 
bridge, chancery  at,  73. 

,  deed  dated  at,  292. 

,  Thomas  parson  of,  73. 

Downton,  Dounton  [co.  Wilts],  385. 

dozeners,  303,  304,  305. 

drapery,  protection  of  craft    of,  75. 

Draycote,  John,  knight  of  the  sliire 
of  Stafford,  480. 

Drayton  [co.  Sussex],  187. 

Basset,  Drayton,  co.  Staf- 
ford,  32. 

,  lord  of.      See  Basset, 

Ralph. 

Beauchamp,  co.  Bucking- 
ham, parson  of.  See  Arches, 
Gilbert  de. 

,    Dry,    Drye     Drayton,    co. 

Cambridge,  24. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


653 


Drayton,  Dry — cont. 

,  parsou  of.   See  Warde, 

John. 

,  Fen,  Fondrayton  [co.  Cam- 
bridge], church  of,  47,  67. 

Drayton,  John  de,  481,  482. 

,  Margaret  wife  of  Simon  de, 

229. 

Drenge,  Dryng,  John,  376,  431,  432. 

,  Sibyl  wife  of  John,  491. 

Drengeton.     See  Drinkstone. 

Drew,  Thomas,  369. 

Driffeld,  John,  73. 

,  Thomas  de,  476. 

Driffield,  Great,  Driffeld,  co.  York, 
376,  431,  432.     • 

,    . .  .  . ,    Emswell,     Elmeswell 

in,  431. 

Drinlfstone,  Drengeton,  co.  Staf- 
ford,   342. 

Driver,  Dryver,  Hugh,  170. 

Roger,  314,  315. 

Drogheda,  Droghda  [cos.  Louth  and 
Meath],  Ireland,  mayor  and 
baiUffs  of,  453. 

,  port  of,  453. 

,  Droghda    on    the     side     of 

Uriel  [co.  Louth],  petition  of 
burgesses  of,  8. 

Drokenesford,  Drokesford,  John  de, 
133. 

Dronsfeld,  John  de,  83. 

Dry  Drayton,  Dryedrayton.  See 
Drayton. 

Dryng.    See  Drenge. 

Dryver.    See  Driver. 

Dublin,  Dyvelyn,  Ireland,  93. 

,  archbishop  of.     See  Minot, 

Thomas. 

,  .....  dispute  as  to  primacy 

of,  181. 

,  customs  at,  26. 

,  exchequer  of.     See  Ireland. 

,  mayor  and  bailiffs  of,   453. 

,  parliament  at,  500. 

port  of,  58,  453. 

Dublin,  county  of,  serjeanty  of,  391. 

Ducklington,  Daklynton,  co.  Ox- 
ford, 3. 

Duckworth  (Hall),  Dukworth  [parish 
of  Oswald twistle],  co.  Lancas- 
ter, 31. 

Duddesfeld,  Sir  Ralph  de,  clerk,  375. 

Duke,  John,  490. 

,  Thomas,  209. 

Duklynton.    See  Ducklington. 

Dukworth.     See  Duckworth. 

Dukworth,  Cicely  de,  31. 

,  Margery  de,  31. 

,  Robert  de,  heir  of,  idiot,  31. 


Dullingham,  Dullyngliam,  co.  Cam- 
bridge, lieauchamp  Hall, 
Boauchampcs   in,    491. 

Dumbloton,  Duinbclton  [co.  Glou- 
cester], parson  of.  See  Aston, 
Walter  de. 

Dumburgli,  Heygen  van,  323. 

Dummere.    See  Domere. 

Dunfert.     See  Danesfort. 

Dunfouwe,  Christina  wife  of  Walter, 
287. 

Dunkirk,  Flanders,  seamen  and  bur- 
gesses of,  130. 

Dunmow,  Great,  Donmowe  [co. 
Essex],  priory  of,  convent  of, 
171,   172. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    . .  .  . ,  deed  dated  at, 

172. 

,    . . .  . ,    .  . .  . ,  prior  of.      See 

Plesye,  Richard  de. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  Shingle  Hall,  Shyngle- 

halle  in,    139. 

,  Little,  Little  Donmowe  [co. 

Essex],    172. 

Dunstable,  Donstaple,  Dunstaple, 
CO.  Bedford,  421. 

,  assize  of  bread  and  ale  at,  302. 

,  burgesses  of,  305. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  named,  302. 

,  customs  of,  302-304. 

,  hue  and  cry  at,  304. 

,  prior  of,  305,  421,  497. 

,  ....    and  convent  of,  lords 

of  the  town  of,  302. 

,    ,   court  of,    302, 

303,  304. 

,  Richard  prior  of,  303. 

,  sale  of  victuals  at,  304. 

,  Thomas  prior  of,  461. 

Dunstan.    See  Dunston. 

Dunster,  Dunsterre  [co.  Somerset], 
lord  of.   See  Mohun,  Jolin  de. 

Dunston,  Dunstan  [in  Penkridge,  co. 
Stafford],  prebendary  of.  *See 
Randolf,  John. 

Dunterton,  Donterton,  co.  Devon, 
manor  of,  74,  180,  266. 

Duntisborne,  Dontebourne,  co. 
Gloucester,  460. 

Dunton,  John,  of  Cambridgeshire, 
291. 

Dunwich,  Donewic,  Donewyz,  Dun- 
wic  [co.  Suffolk],  bailiffs  of, 
91,  137,  407. 

,  customers  etc.  of,  137. 

,  mayor  of,  407. 

Durant,  Alexander,  coroner  of  co. 
Bedford,  228. 

,  Ellen  wife  of  Thomas,  413. 

,  Thomas,  of  York,  413. 


554 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Durborough,   Doui'burgh   [parish   of 

Stogursoy],       co.       Somerset, 

manor  of,  144,  220. 
Durbirrgh,     Hugh,     knight     of     the 

sliire   of   Somerset,    273,    480. 
Durdent,  Edward,   160. 

,  Thomas,  of  Denham,  268. 

Dxiresme,  WiUiam  de,  283. 
Dureward,      Doreward,      Henry,    of 

Booking,  473. 

,  Wniiam,  43,  186,  243. 

Durham,    bishop   of.      See   Hatfeld, 

Thomas  de. 

,  bishopric  of,  194. 

liberty   of,    346,    371, 

418. 

,  diocese  of,  taxation  of,  151. 

,  prior  of,  418,  421. 

Durneford,  Stephen,  316. 
Durnford,     Derneford,     Great,     co. 

Wilts,  manor  of,  357. 
,  Derneford,  Little,  co.  Wilts, 

manor  of,  357. 
Duxfeld,   Robert   de,   of   Newcastle- 
upon-Tyne,    86. 
Duyn,    Jolm,     107,    352,    353,    359, 

360,  469. 
Dycherigge.     See  Ditteridge. 
Dyere,  Richard,  of  Abingdon,  280. 
Dyffryn     Clwyd,     Deffrencloit     [co. 

Denbigh],  lord  of.     See  Grey, 

Reynold  de. 
Dygge.    See  Digge. 
Dykelee.    See  Dickley. 
Dylyngton.    See  Dillington. 
Dymelton.     See  Dimlington. 
Dymet,  James,  313. 
Dymmok,  John,  knight,  274. 
,     .  .  .  . ,    .  .  .  . ,    son    of    John, 

lord   of   Scrivelsby,    302. 

See  Dimmogh. 

Dymnell,  Henry,  267. 
Dymyngton.     See  Dennington. 
Dynebegh.    See  Denbigh. 
Dynele,    Isabel    wife    of    John    de, 

361. 

John  de,  360. 

Dyngelee,  John,  64. 

Dynham,     Elizabeth     daughter     of 

Oliver  de,   nun  of  Buckland, 

157. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  nun  of  Watton,    157. 

,  John  de,  99,  180. 

,  knight,  266. 

,      Margaret      (de      As  thorp) 

daughter  of  Oliver  de,  157. 
,   Oliver  de,   tenant  in  chief, 

157. 

Cf.  Deynham. 

Dytton.    See  Ditton. 


Dyve,    Thomas    brother    of    Henry, 

399. 
Dyvelyn.    See  Dublin. 


E 

Ealdynge.    See  Yalding. 

eai'l  marshal,  the,  497,  498. 

Earl   Stonham,   Stonham  Pearls   [co. 

Suffolk],   54. 
Earls  Colne.    See  Colne. 
Eartham,  Ertham  [co.  Sussex],  466. 
Easby,  Eseby,  co.  York,  218. 
Easenhall,     Esenhull       [in      Monks 

Kirby],  co.  Warwick,  314. 
Easington,  Esyngton,  co.  Yoi'k,  315. 
,      Dimlington      (Dymelton), 

Hoton  and  Northop  in,  315. 
Easingwold,  Esyngwald   [co.   York], 

57. 
Eastbourne,  Bourne,  co.  Sussex,  414. 

,  bailiffs  of,  414. 

Eastburn,  Brune,  Estbrim  [in  Kirk- 
burn],    CO.    York,    manor    of, 

295,  310. 
Eastcote,  Descote  [in  Pattishall],  co. 

Northampton,    307,    434. 
,    Estcote    [in    Swindon,    co. 

Wilts],  242. 
East  Ham.    See  Ham. 
Eastham,   co.   Chester,   Pool,   PuUe 

in,  227. 
Easthainpstead,  Yeshampstede,  Yes- 

hamstede    [co.    Berks],    377. 
,   letters   close   dated   at,    25, 

190,  392. 

manor  of,  358. 

Eastleach,  Estleche  [co.  Gloucester], 

insertion    of     name      of,      in 

charter,  492. 
Eastling,    Eselynge,    co.    Kent,    ad- 

vowson  of  chui'ch  of,  52. 

,  Robertesgrof  in,  52. 

Easton     Maudit,     Eston     Mauduit, 

Mauduyt,    co.    Northampton, 

389. 

,  advowson  of  church  of,  389. 

,  deed  dated  at,  389. 

Ebbeford.    See  Efford. 
Eboraco     See  York. 
Ebrington,   Ebrighton  [co.   Glouces- 
ter],  parson   of.      See  Forde, 

William  de. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


555 


EechynRluun,      Dchyngeham,      Wil- 
liam do,  kui^lit,"  178,  2Si). 
EccJos,     CO.     Laiicastor,     Bartou-on- 
Irvvell  in,  473. 

,   .  .  .  .,  CadislKiad,   Cadvvalys- 

lioved,  and  VV^orsley,  VVorkys- 
legli,  and  Swinton,  Swentoii 
in,  474. 

,  Eclis  by  Ailleford  [in  Ayle.s- 

ford|,  CO.  Kont,  fee  in,  495. 
Eccles,  Tdonea  de,  nun  of  St.   Bar- 
tholomew's      priory,       New- 
castle-upon-Tyne,   390. 

,  Reynold  de,  474. 

Ecclesale.    See.  Eccleshale. 
Ecclesfield,    Ecclesfeld    [co.     York], 
places  named  in,  147. 

,  soke  of,  147. 

Eccleshale,      Ecclesale,      John      de, 
clerk,  393. 

,     Richard    de,    treasurer    of 

Calais,  363. 
Echyngeham.     See  Ecchyngliam. 
Echyngehamme.     See  Etchingham. 
Eclis  by  Ailleford.    See  Eccles. 
Edelesburgh.     See  Edlesborough. 
Edelmeton.    See  Edmonton. 
Edenburgh.    »See  Edinburgh. 
Edendon.     See  Edington. 
Edenestowe.     See  Edwinstow. 
Edesford.     See  Edisford. 
Edgar,  king,  charter  of,  443. 
Edgeworfch,    Eggesworth,    co.    Glou- 
cester,   109. 

manor  of,  18,  109. 

Edinburgh,     Edenburgh,     Scotland, 

130. 
Edington,  Edyndon  [co.  Wilts],  deed 

dated  at,  393. 
,....,  St.  Augustine's  monas- 
tery, John  rector  of,  395. 
,  ....,....,  rector  and  breth- 
ren of ,  165,   192. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  Tinhead,  Tenhyde  in, 

192. 

,     Edyngdon     by     Gattecote 

[in  Moorlinch],  co.  Somerset, 
166. 
Edington,   Edendon,   Edyndon,   Ed- 
yngdon, Edynton,  Gilbert  de, 
5. 

,  John  de,  205. 

, ,  knight,  270. 

,  Thomas  de,  161. 

,    ....    son  of  Gilbert  de,    5, 

166. 
...-...,  William  de,  bishop  of  Win- 
chester,    56,     77,     120,     123, 
148,  165,  192.   250,   270,   393, 
457. 


Edisford,    Edesford    |ii>     (Jlitheroe, 
purish       of      WiialleyJ,       co. 
Lancaster,  239.    249. 
Edlaston,   co.    Derby,    Wyaston   in, 

18. 
Edlesborough,       Edelesburgh,       co. 

Buckingham,   341. 
Edlington,     Edlyngton,     co.     York, 

manor  of,  501. 
Edmondthorj^e,      Edm(>rthorp     [co. 
Leicest(irJ,    parson    of.        See 
Aukes,  Robert. 
Edmonton,   Edelmeton,  co.   Middle- 
sex, 53,  92,  294. 

,  deed  dated  at,  92. 

Edmund  [earl  of  Lancaster],  brother 
of  Edward  I,  33. 

,  Avelina  his  wife,  33. 

Edmund  of  Langeleye,  earl  of  Cam- 
bridge, the  king's  son,  14, 
89,  l81,  211,  403,  420,  421, 
465,  468. 
Edmund,  John,  of  Steventon,  402. 
Edward  I,  charters,  letters  patent 
etc.  of,  33,  34,  110,  308,  325, 
334. 

,  his  brother.     See  Edmund. 

Edward  IT,  charter  of,  61. 
Edward  III,  his  admiral,  458.     See 
also       Herle,       Robert       de  ; 
Spigurnell,  Ralph. 

,  his  aunt.     See  Brotherton, 

Mary  wife  of  Thomas  de. 

,  his  buckhounds,  278. 

,   Ills    butler.       See    Stodeye, 

John  de  ;    Strete,  William. 

,      his      chamberlain.  See 

Chesterfeld,   Richard  de. 

,   his   cook.       See    Goderich, 

John. 

,  his  daughter.     See  Isabel. 

,    his    esquire.       See   Cheyne, 

Thomas  ;    Leget,    Helmingus. 

,  his  falconer.     See  Chaunte- 

nierle,  Walter. 

,    his    mason.       See    Sponle, 

Master  John. 

,  his  pavilioner.    See  Thorne- 

ton,  Thomas  de. 

,  liis  Serjeants  at  arms.      See 

EUerton,  John  ;  Ferrariis, 
Reynold  de ;  Haddon,  John 
de ;   Haukyn,  John. 

his    sons.     See     Edmund ; 

Edward  ;  John ;  Lionel. 

,••••,  accounts  of  lands  of,  14. 

,  his  steward.      See    Talbot, 

John. 

,    lioiisehold    of,    avener    of. 

See  Clee,  William  de. 


556 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Edward  III,  household  of — cont. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  clerk  of.  See  Humbers- 

ton,  William. 
,     cofferer     of.         See 

Brantyngham,    Thomas    de. 
,     .  .  .  . ,    controller    of.       See 

Slirewsbury,  William  de. 
,   . .  . . ,  steward  of.     See  Lee, 

John  atte. 
,     . .  . . ,    treasurer    of.        See 

Ferriby,  William  de ;  Retford, 

WUliam  de. 
,   keeper   of   his   mews.      See 

Braban,  John. 
,  receiver    of     his     chamber. 

See  Leget,   Helmingus. 
Edward,    the   king's   son,   prince   of 

Aquitaine  and  Wales,  7,  102, 

103,   152,  374,  404,  447,  468, 

497. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  prince  of  Wales,  duke 

of     Cornwall     and     earl     of 

Chester,    226,    227,    371,    404. 
,      .  .  .  . ,     investitiire     of,     as 

duke  of  Cornwall,  112. 
Edwardstone,       Edwardiston       [co. 

Suffolk],   manor   of,    186. 
Edwinstow,  Edenestowe  [co.  Notts], 

28. 
Edyndon,      Edjmgdon,      Edyngton, 

Edynton.    See  Edington. 
Efford,    Estebbeford,    Est   Ebbeford 

[parish  of  Milford,  co.  South- 
ampton],  62,   389. 
Eggardon,       Egreton       [parish       of 

Asherswell  or  Litton  Cheney], 

CO.  Dorset,  8. 
Eggesworth.     See  Edgeworth. 
Egreton.    See  Eggardon. 
Eir,  John  le,   191. 
Eiton,  John  de,  195. 

Cf.  Eton,  Etton,  Eyton. 

Eketon,  John  de,   165. 

Eldeforde,    the    Eldford.      See    Old 

Ford. 
Elford,  Robert  de,  45. 
Elham,  co.  Kent,  Mount  in,  65. 
Elinrigge,      Elinbrigge,      Elinerigge, 

Elinerugge,    Elinrugge,    Elin- 

rygge,  Robert,  185. 

,  Roger,  Roger  de,  375. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight,  45,  161. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Oxford,  169,  480. 

Cf.  Dalingrugge. 

Eliot,  Elyot,  Richard,  of  Worcester, 

outlawed,   106. 

Robert,  183. 

Ella,  West,  West  Elvele,  co.York,  245. 
EUale.    See  EUel. 


Ellehirst,  Ralph  brother  of  Richard 

de,   209. 

,  Richard  de,  209. 

EUel,  EUale  [parish  of  Cockerham], 

CO.  Lancaster,  chapel  of,  222. 
EUerbek,  Thomas  de,  78. 
EUerton,   John,   the   king's   yeoman 

and  Serjeant  at  arms,  6,  7. 
EUesden.    See  Elsdon. 
EUesmere  [co.  Salop],  lord  of.     See 

Lestrange,  Roger. 
EUesworth,  Robert  de,  24. 
EUirker,      Cicely     wife    of     Simon, 

287. 
Elmbridge,   Emelbrigge,  co,  Surrey, 

hundred  of,   325. 
Elmele,    William    de,    clerk    of    the 

king's    works    at     Clipstone, 

429. 
Elmereston.    See  Elmstone. 
Elmesale,  Anthony  son  of  Hugh  de, 

174. 

,  Hugh  de.  174. 

Elmesett.  See  Elmsett. 
Elmeswell.  See  Emswell. 
Elmsett,   Elmesett,   co.   Suffolk,  fee 

in,   497. 
Elmstone,    Elmereston    [co.    Kent], 

373. 
Elsdon,    EUesden,    co.    Northumber- 
land, 439,  460. 
,    Linsheeles,     Lynsheles    in, 

440. 

Wodside  by,  439. 

Elsham  [co.  Lincoln],  prior  of,  439, 

477. 
Elstronwick,    Astanwyk   in    Holder- 

ness,  Elstonwyk  [in  Humble- 
ton],  CO.  York,  315,  434. 
Elsyng,  Jordan  de,  294. 
Eltham,  co.  Kent,  64. 

,  fee  in,  495. 

,  letters   close   dated    at,     11, 

281,  361,  386,  391. 

,  manor  of,  26. 

,  the  king's  court  of,  27. 

Elvel,  Elvayl  [co.  Radnor],  lord  of. 

See  Bello  Campo,  Thomas  de, 

earl  of  Warwick. 
Elvele,  West.    See  EUa,  West. 
Elvendon,  Ilvedon  [in   Goring],   co. 

Oxford,  249. 
Ely,  CO.  Cambridge,  73,  245. 
,  bishop  of.  See  Barnet,  John  ; 

Hothum,   John   de  ;     Insula, 

Thomas        de  ;        Langham, 

Simon. 
,  . .  .  . ,  manor  of,  at  Holborn, 

267. 
,  . .  .  . ,  palace  of,  250,  251. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


657 


Ely — cont. 

,   bishopric  of,   2r)l,   252. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  keeper  of  temporalities 

of.     iScc  Wesonluun,  Jolinde. 

cathedral,  49'4. 

,  rent  rendered  in,  493. 

deed  dated  at,  73. 

,  hundred  of,  252. 

priory,  prior  and  convent  of, 

250,  251,  488. 

,  .  .  .  .  and  monks  of,  341. 

,  sacrist  of,  496. 

,  sub-prior  of,  494. 

Elyot.   See  Eliot. 

Elys,  William,  of  Great  Yarmouth, 

45. 

See  Fitz  Elys. 

Ember,  Ymeworth  [in  Thames  Dit- 

ton],    CO.    Surrey,    manor    of, 

325. 
Embleton,       co.       Northumberland, 

Brunton,  Burnton,  in  426. 
Erne,  William,   of  Cliffe,   the  elder, 

478. 
Emelbrigge.    See  Elmbridge. 
Emeldon,   Alice   daughter   of  Agnes 

daughter  of  Richard  de,  234, 

331,  332. 
,   Christiana  wife  of  Richard 

de,  96,  331,  332. 
,  Jacoba  (Stryvelyn)  daughter 

of  Richard  de,  96,  332. 
,    Maud    daughter    of    Agnes 

daughter  of  Richard  de,  234. 

331. 
,    ....    daughter   of   Richard 

de,  332. 

,  Richard  de,  96,  234. 

,  tenant  in  chief,  332. 

Emelet,  William,  313. 

Emmeson,  Walter,  282. 

Emswell,    Elmeswell    [in    Driffield], 

CO.  York,  431. 
Enefeld.  See  Enfield. 
Enefeld,    Francis    son    of    John    de, 

493. 
,  John  de,  pepperer  of  Lon- 
don, 208. 
Enepol,  John  de,  223. 
Enfield,  Enefeld,  co.  Middlesex,  92. 
Enford,  co.  Wilts,  Coombe  in,  27. 
Engayne.     »See  Dengayne. 
Engelby,  Thomas,  citizen  of  Bridge- 
water,   481. 

Cf.  Ingelby. 

Englefield  Green,  Ingelfeld  [co.  Sur- 
rey], 133. 
Engleis,  Lengleys,  William,   138. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Cumberland,    1 69. 


Englis,     Englissh.      Alice     wife     of 

Richard,  173. 
,     Ralph     [or     Richard],     of 

Newnham    Murren,    166. 

Richard,  259. 

,  of  Newnham  Murren. 

173. 

,  ....  son  of  Ralph,  166. 

,  Roger  son  of  Ralph,  166. 

Englishcombe,       Inglcscombe       [co. 

Somerset],  manor  of,  294. 
Englissh.    See  Englis. 
Engulf  eld,  Philip  de,  knight,   166. 
Ennewylle  [co.  Devon],  163. 
Enys,  John  son  of  Thomas  de,  166, 

167. 

Cf.  Denys. 

Epperstone,  Eperston,  Epriston,  co. 

Nottingham,     advowson     of, 

331,  501. 

,  manor  of,  331,  501. 

Epping,  CO.  Essex,  Copt  Hall,  Coppit- 

hall  in,   188. 
Epriston.    See  Epperstone, 
Ercall     Magna,     co.     Salop,     Isom- 

bridge,  Tsenbrugge  in,  13,  14. 
Erchedekne,  Maud,  44,  45. 
Erdington,   co.   Warwick,   51. 
Ereswell,    Peter   de,    of   Brentwood, 

277. 
Erith,  Erhithe,  co.  Kent,  465. 
Erlam,  John,  of  Norfolk,  88. 
Erlegh,  Elizabeth  wife  of  John  de, 

108. 

,  John  de,  tenant  in  chief,  108. 

,  ....  son  of  John  de,  108. 

Erlestoke,  Thomas,  415. 
Ermitage.    See  Hermitage. 
Ermyn,  Thomas,  387. 
Ermytage.     See  Hermitage. 
Ermytescroft     [hermitage     on      St. 

Leonard's   hill   in    Clewer    ?], 

CO.  Berks,  133. 
Ernele,  John  de,  466. 
Erpeston,  John  de,  bailiff  of  Lincoln, 

414. 
Ertham.    See  Eartham. 
Esdyk.    See  Esedike. 
Eseby.    See  Easby. 
Eseby,  John  de,  283. 
Esedike,     Esdyk    [in    Wighill],     co. 

York,  manor  of,  501. 
Esegar.    See  Esgar. 
Eselynge.    See  Eastling. 
Eselynge,  Arnald  de,  52. 
Esenhull.    See  Easenhall. 
Esgar,    Esegar,     Adam,     clerk,     13, 

294. 
Esmon,  Adam,  65. 
esperquerie  of  congers,  34,  105. 


558 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Essars,  Essarz,  Jakes  de,  burgess  of 
Roan,    Roay,    384. 

,      . .  . . ,      .  .  .  . ,     hostage     of 

France,  408. 

Essex,  county  of,  45,  46,  56,  62,  85, 
160,  171,  173,  174,  175,  176, 
184,  195,  201,  269,  270,  280, 
294,  302,  310,  366,  376.  388, 
389,  461,  466,  473,  490,  491. 

,  collectors  of  customs  in,  11. 

,  ....  of  subsidy  in,  115. 

,  earl  of.  See  Bohun,  Hum- 
phrey  de. 

,  escheator  in.   See  Wolfroton, 

Roger  de. 

,    justices    of    assize   in,    272, 

373. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  169, 

481. 

,  search  for  wine  on  coast  of, 

231. 

,   searchers   of  forfeitures   in, 

11. 

,  service  of  destroying  vermin 

in,  412,  426. 

,  sheriff  of,  11,  29,  30,  48,  88, 

138,  156,  229,  247,  358,  363, 
392,  428.  See  also  Boys,  Guy 
de  ;     Helpeston,   Thomas   de. 

,  subsidy  in,  70,  281,  484. 

Essex,  Wilham,   161,   300. 

,  Wilham  de,  54. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London.  379. 

Esshetesford.     See  Asliford. 

Estbrun.    See  Eastburn. 

Estburnhani.     See  Biu'nham,  East. 

Estbviry,  John,  John  de,  50,  397, 
479,  503, 

,     .  .  .  . ,    escheator    in    Wilts, 

457. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Berks,   169,  273,  480. 

Estcote.    See  Eastcote. 

Estcouton.    See  Cowton,  East. 

Estebbeford,  Est  Ebbeford.  -See 
Efford. 

Estfeld  [by  Aldrington,  submerged  .?], 
CO.  Sussex,  472. 

Estfeld,  Roger,  merchant  of  London, 
467. 

Esthamme.    See  Ham,  East. 

Esthanneye.    See  Hanney,  East. 

Esthorndon.    See  Horndon,  East. 

Esthus,  William,  chaplain,  390. 

Estleche.     See  Eastleach. 

Estlemynton.  See  Leamington  Hast- 
ings. 

Estlynton,  Henry,  193. 

Estmallyng.    See  Mailing,  East. 

Estmordon.    *See  Morden,  East. 


Eston.    See  Easton. 

Eston,  John  de,  190. 

,  Richard  de,   190. 

,  Roger  de,  212. 

Estpirye.    See  Potterspury. 

Estredewy.    See  Ystrad-yw. 

Estwalsham.     See  Halsham  ? 

Estychenore.    Sec  Itchonor,  East. 

Esyngham.     See  I^easmgham  ? 

Esyngton.    »See  Easington. 

Esyngwald.    See  Easingwold. 

Etal,  Ethale  [in  Ford],  co.  North- 
umberland,  320,   337. 

,  manor  of,  320. 

Etche.    See  Ash. 

Etchingham,  Echyngehamme  [co. 
Sussex],  deed   dated   at,  289. 

Ethale.    See  Etal. 

Etloe,  Ettelowe  [in  Awre],  co. 
Gloucester,  437. 

Eton,  Eton  bj^  Wyndesore,  co. 
Buckingham,   335. 

Eton,  Simon  de,  of  Buckingham,  269. 

Ettelowe.    -See  Etloe. 

Etton,  John  de,  coroner  of  Berks,  16. 

Cf.  Eiton,  Eyton. 

Etyngbroke,  John  de,  300. 

.."....,  Stephen  de,  300,  301. 

Eui'e,  John  de,  knight,  354. 

,  Robert  son  of  John  de,  354. 

Eustace,  Robert,  of  Tilnej',  chap- 
lain, 271. 

Evegate,  Thevegate  [in  SmeethJ,  co. 
Kent,  manor  of,  289. 

Evenefeld,  John  de,  93. 

Everard,  Margaret  daughter  of 
Richard,^ of  Wells,   365,   366. 

,  Phihp,  knight,  277. 

,  Richard,  of  Wisbeach,  277. 

Thomas,  373. 

Everdon,  Everden,  Henry  de,  56. 

....  son  of  Richard  de,  1 65. 

,  Richard  de,  56,  165. 

Evere.    -Sec  Iver. 

Everesholt,  Katherine  de,  73. 

Everheth.   -See  Iver  Heath. 

Everwyk.     -See  York. 

Everyngham,  Alice  davighter  of  John 
de,  nun  of  Haverholm,  379, 
380. 

Evesham,  co.  Worcester,  170. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  386. 

,  William  abbot  of,  270. 

Evesham,  John  de,  475. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  escheator  in  Berkshire, 

19,  40,  107,  139,  142,  213,  247, 
339,  340,  394,  410,  436,   438, 

,....,....  in  Hampshire,  22. 

106,  107,  139,  142,  247,  253, 
259,  361,  438, 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


550 


Evesham,  John  do,  escheator — cunt. 

,    .  .  .  .,    ....    in  Oxfordsliiro, 

2,  139,  152,  213,  214,  230, 
247,  259.  2G0,  353,  410,  435, 
438. 

,    ....    in  Wiltshire.   9, 

II,  19,  27.  96,  107,  142,  220, 
223,  242,  247,  255,  321,  342, 
354,  357,  410,  415,  430,438,456. 

,  justice,  185. 

Ewhiirst  [co.  Surrey],  Paddingfold, 
Ponyngfold  in,  277. 

Ewias  Harold,  Ewyas  Harald, 
Haraldesewyas  [co.  Hereford], 
castle  and  manor  of,  472. 

,    lord   of.     See  Warre, 

John  de  la;  Warre,  Roger  de  la. 

Lacy,     Ewyas     Lacy     [co. 

Hereford],  keeper  of  lordship 
of,   371. 

Excestre.    See  Exeter. 

Exchequer,  tlie,  9,  21,  29,  31,  33,  38, 
96,  98,  116,  124,  133,  142. 
148,  149,  181,  219,  225,  231, 
244,  258,  292,  333,  335,  337, 
342,  345,  364,  401,  410,  416, 
420,  422,  437,  441,  445. 

,  accounts  at.  13,  37,  104,  109, 

III,  121,  140,  146,  152,  155, 
218,  231,  235,  236,  250,  251, 
258,  292,  329,  349,  422,  430. 

,  ancient  books  of,  119. 

,  auditor  of.   See  Uppyngham, 

Jolin  de. 

.......    barons    of.       See   Plesleye, 

Robert  de  ;  fthirland,  Aju- 
amy  de. 

,  chamberlains  of.     See  Bello 

Canipo,  Thomas  de  ;  Brant- 
yngham,  Raljih  de  ;  Chester- 
feld,  Richard  de  ;  Mulsho, 
William  de  ;  Newenham, 
Jnlm  de  ;  Piriton,  Richard  de, 

chancellor  of.     See  Askeby, 

William  de. 

,  clerks  in,  of  the  earldom  of 

Albemarle.  >S'ee  Kestevene, 
Ralph  de  ;   Wenlok,  William. 

clerks  and  officers  of,  118. 

,  commission  of,  311. 

,  enrolments  in,  249. 

,  estreats  sent  to,  7,  83,  223. 

,  payment   of  relief   at,    317, 

340.   444. 

,  process  in,  118,  120. 

proffers  at,  486. 

,  receipt  of,  2,  29,  35,  114,  115, 

116,  117,  120,  121,  122,  123, 
124,  140,  187,  235,  244,  259, 
274,  310,  318,  331. 


Excliequer,  receipt  of — cont. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  clerk  in.     (S'ee  Wenlok, 

William. 

, deputy    treasurer    in. 

See  Chesterfeld,  Richard  do. 

,    ,   rolls  of,  119. 

,     .  .  .  . ,    treasurer's   clerk    in. 

See  Derby,  Robert  de. 

,    usher  of.      See  Bray, 

John. 

,  rolls  and  memoranda  of,  7, 

22,  40,  97,  104,  148,  244,  333. 

,  seal  of,  292. 

,  summons  of,  1,  2,  10,  12,  14, 

28,  29,  35,  120,  128,  148,  153, 
155,  181,  223,  253,  259,  318, 
333,  358,  363,  417,  421,  452. 

,  tallies  of,  118. 

,  treasurer  and  barons  of,   1, 

2,  6,  7,  9,  10,  12,  13,  14,  22, 
28,  29,  35,  37,  40,  44,  95,  97, 
98,  110,  111,  133,  140,  145, 
146,  148,  149,  150,  152,  155, 
180,  217,  218,  219,  223,  225, 
231,  235,  236,  244,  249,  250, 
251,  252,  253,  254,  255,  258, 
259,  291,  292,  326,  334,  335, 
358,  363,  412,  416,  417,  420, 
421,  422,  426,  430,  431,  452, 
453,   486. 

,    ....    and  chamberlains    of, 

6,  104,  108,  224,  244,  258, 
318,  331,  441,  445,  454. 

,  writ  not  sent  to,  339. 

See      Carlisle,      Ireland, 

Philippa. 

Exemuth.    See  Exmouth. 

Exeter,       Excestre       [co.       Devon], 
bailiffs  of,  91,   136,  264,   369. 

,  bishop  of.    See  Grandi  Sono, 

John  de. 

bishopric    of,    temporalities 

of,  125. 

,     cathedral     church     of     St. 

Peter,  dean  and  chapter  of. 
126,  264. 

,    citizens    of,    summoned    to 

parliament,    274. 

,   customers,   keepers  of  pas- 
sage and  searchers  in,  136. 

,  mayor  of,  91,  136,  264,  370. 

See  also  Britstowe,  Nicholas 
de  ;    Gist,  John. 

,  riot  at,  264. 

Exmouth,     Exemuth     [co.     Devon], 
bailiffs  of,  91. 

Exton  [co.  Rutland],  manor  of,  366, 
464. 

,  CO.  Somerset,  parson  of.    See 

Venour,  William  le. 


560 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Exton,  Nicholas  de,  citizen  of  Lon- 
don, 268. 

Eye,  Yeye  [in  Leighton],  co.  Salop, 
342. 

Eye,  Nicholas  de,  287,  294. 

Eyette,  WiUiam  de,  188. 

Eylesford,  Eylisford.    See  Aylesford. 

Eylesford,  John  de,  13,  14. 

, ,  knight,   176,  294. 

Eym,  Fabian,  159. 

Eynesford,  John  de,  knight  of 
the  shire  of  Hereford,  168, 
273. 

Eynesham,  William  de,  461. 

,    .  .  .  . ,   pepperer   of   London, 

277,   461. 

Eynsham  abbey,  co.  Oxford,  213. 

Eype,  Yepe  [in  Symondsbury],  co. 
Dorset,  204. 

Eyton,  Peter  de,  267. 

,  William  de,  367. 

Cf.  Eiton,  Eton,  Etton. 


Fabel,  John,  168. 

,    ....    son  of  Thomas,    197, 

201,  202. 
,  Mary  wife  of  Thomas,  197, 

198    201 

,  Thomas,  197,  198,  201. 

,  William,   197,  468. 

Fain  tree,   Fayntre   [in  Chetton],   co. 

Salop,  410. 
Fairestede.     See  Fairsted. 
fairs,  30,  284,  308,  456. 
Fairsted,     Fairestede     [co.     Essex], 

197,  294. 
Faithlegg,  Fathely  [co.  Waterford], 

Ireland,  425. 
Fakenham,  Little,  co.  Suffolk,  fee  in, 

497. 
Falk,  Amice  wife  of  John,  162. 
Falkebourne,      Falkeburne.  See 

Faulkbourn. 
Falkingham,   Fulkyngham,   co.   Lin- 

6oln,  63. 
Falsgrave,      Walesgrave     [in     Scar- 
borough, CO.  York],  manor  of, 

141. 
Fanacom't,  Bartholomew,  356. 
,  Lucy  wife  of  Bartholomew, 

356. 


Fanner,  Thomas,  363. 

, ,  of  London,  338,  339. 

Fannes.     See  Vanne. 

Fareham,  Farham  [co.  Hants],  406. 

Farendon.     See  Faringdon. 

Farham.    See  Fareham. 

Faringdon,    Farendon    [co.    Berks], 

479. 
Farle,    Farleye,    William    de,    con- 
stable      of     Bordeaux,      140, 

244. 
,    keeper,    treasurer   of 

the  king's  wardrobe,  117,  231, 

232,  244. 
Farleton    [parish    of    Melling],     co. 

Lancaster,  145. 
Farley  [in  Swallowfield,  co.  Berks], 

208. 
Farleye.     See  Farle,  Monkton  Far- 

leigh. 
farm  called  post  terras  datas,  253. 
for  the  profit  of  the  county, 

254. 

of  the  county  by  tale,  253. 

Farnham,   Farnham    in   the   Grene, 

CO.  Essex,  advowson  of,  306. 
,    .  .  .  . ,  Hertesho,     Hertisho- 

bury  in,  306. 
,  Thirnham  [parish  of  Alwin- 

ton],     CO.      Northumberland, 

147. 

,  CO.  Surrey,  502,  503. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  castle  of,  502. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  chancery  at,  502,  503, 

504. 
, deeds   dated   at,    502, 

503,  504, 

,   .  .  .  . ,  hundred  of,  502. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  places  named  in,  502, 

503,  504. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  road  from,  to  Reading, 

503. 
Farnham,  Joan  de,  427. 
Farningham,       Frennyngham,       co. 

Kent,  384,  489. 
Farthinghoe,  Farnyngho,  Faryngho, 

CO.  Northampton,  307,  434. 

,  coiirt  at,  494,  498. 

,  tenants  of,  498. 

Farthingstone,     Farthyngeston,    co. 

Northampton,  434. 
Faryngho.    See  Farthinghoe. 
Faryngton,  Robert  de,  319. 
Fasterne.     See  Vastern. 
Fastof,  Hugh,  collector  of  customs 

in  Yarmouth,  6. 
Fathely.    See  Faithlegg. 
Faucomberge,    Faucombergh,    Fau- 

conberg,   Alice  wife  of  John 

de,  343. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


561 


Faucomborge — cont. 

,  Constance  wife  of  Thomas 

de,  306. 

Isabel  de,  295. 

,     ....    (de    Burton)    wife    of 

Walter  de,  57,  310,  311. 
,    .  . . . ,   . . . . ,    assignment    of 

dower  to,  282-287. 

,  John  de,  343. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  tenant  in  chief,  218. 

,  Maud  wife  of  Walter  de,  434. 

,  Thomas  de,  lord  of  Skelton, 

295,  307. 
,  ....  son  of  Walter  de,  246, 

293,  306,  310,  311,  434. 

,  Walter  de,  307. 

, ,  heir  of,  283,  286. 

Fauconer,  Faukener,  Henry,  5. 

,  John,  462,  485. 

,  ....  son  of  Henry,  5. 

,  Margaret  wife  of  John,  5. 

Fauelore,  Gregory,  92. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Middlesex,   481. 
Faukener,    See  Fauconer. 
Faukham.   See  Fawkham. 
Faulkbourn,     Falkebourne,      Falke- 

burne  [co.  Essex],  197,  294. 

,  advowson  of,  197. 

,  manor  of,  197. 

Faiiquemont.    See  Valkenburg. 
Faversham    [co.    Kent],    bailiffs    of, 

49,  91,  136. 

,  customers  of,  136. 

,  mayor  of,  49. 

Fawkhain,  Faukham,  co.  Kent,  384. 
Faxfieet,  Faxflete,  co.  York,  chapel 

of,  356. 

,  manor  of,  356. 

Fayntre.    *See  Faintree. 

Fecamp    [France,  dep.   Seine-Inferi- 

eure],  privileges  of  abbot  of,  21. 
Fekenham,  Robert  de.  473. 
Felbrigge,  George  de,  387. 
Felde,  Richard  atte,  27,  195. 
Feldeswell,  John,   370. 
Felmersham,  co.  Bedford,  mill  at,  357. 
Felton,  CO.  Northumberland,  Thris- 

ton,  Thrasterston  in,  438. 
Felton,  Thomas  de,  498. 

,  Wilham  de,  128. 

Fen,  Henry  atte,  255,  259. 

,    Jiiliana    (Bixle)    sister    of 

Katherine  atte,  294.    * 
,      Katherine      daughter      of 

Robert  atte,  294. 
Fenby,  co.  Lincoln,  436,  437. 
Fencotes,  Jolin  de,  210. 
,     .  .  .  . ,    justice    of    assize    in 

po.  ^Buckingham,  454. 


Fencotes — cont . 

,  Thomas  de,  210 

Fen    Drayton,     Fondrayton.        See 

Drayton. 
Fenewyk.    See  Fenwyk. 
Fenstede,  John  do,  225. 

,  Maud  wife  of  Jolin  de,  225. 

Fenwe,  Jacomyn  do,  of  Genoa,  455. 
Fenwyk,    Fenewyk,    John   de,    224, 

349, 
Ferers.    See  Ferrariis. 
Feriby.    See  Ferriby. 
Fernham   [parish   of   Longcott],    co. 

Berks,  manor  of,  195. 
Ferour,      Hugh      le,      burgess      of 

Dunstable,   302. 
Ferrariis,  Ferers,  Ferrers,  Elizabeth 

wife  of  John  de,  342. 

,  Henry  de,  knight,  347. 

,  John  de,  knight,  342,  347. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Devon,  273. 
,    .  .  .  . ,   of  Churston  Ferrers, 

163. 
,     Reynold     de,     the     king's 

Serjeant  at  arms,  339. 
,    Robert    son    of    John    de, 

347. 
,  William  de,  knight,  lord  of 

Groby,  171,  271. 
Ferriby,  North,  Feriby,  co.  York,  245. 
Ferriby,    Feriby,    William    de,    376, 

478. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  treasurer  of  the  king's 

household,    116. 

Cf.  Ferughby. 

ferries,  163,  286. 
Fershesdon.    See  Fresden. 
Ferughby,    Sir    William,    parson    of 

Wystow,  314. 

Cf.  Ferriby. 

Fery,  William,  of  Wakefield,  383. 
Fessunis,  Brother  Jolin  de,  prior  of 

Wing,   365. 
Feteplace,  Thomas,  19. 
Fewell,     William     de,     coroner     for 

Norfolk,    101. 
Fiddleford,  Fitelford  [parish  of  Oke- 

ford    Fitzpaine,    co.    Dorset], 

57,  165. 
Fienles,     Robert    de,     constable    of 

France,  92. 
Fiffehida.    See  Fifield. 
Fiffide.    See  Fyfield. 
Fifhide,  Fifhyde,  Fyfhide,  Fyfhyde, 

John  son  of  William,  474. 

,  Richard,  280. 

,  William,  460. 

,  ....  son  of  William  de,  105, 

106,  474. 

^  3§ 


562 


GENERAL 


Fifield,      Fiffehida      [co.      Oxford], 

erasure  of  name  of,  in  charter, 

492. 
Filby,  Henry  de,  221. 
Fillol,  Filol,  Fylol,  John,  91. 

,  William,  62. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  kniglat  of  the  shire  of 

Dorset,   273. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Dorset,  275. 

Filongleye,  William  de,  161. 
Filston,  Vieleston  [in  Shoreham],  co. 

Kent,  408. 

,  manor  of,  458. 

Filz  Rauf.    See  Fitz  Ralph. 
Finchingfield,       Fychyngfeld       [co. 

Essex],  490. 
Finthorp,  Fynthorp,  Godekin,  Gode- 

kyn,  441,  442,  444. 
Firsby,   Frisby,   co.   Lincoln,   manor 

of,  435. 
first  fruits,  151. 
Fish,   Fissh,   Fyssh,   Phissh,   Henry, 

184. 
,   Hugh,   of   Selby,   259,    412, 

413. 
,     Thomas,     of     Southwark, 

hosier,  369. 

,  William,  clerk,  375. 

fish,  442. 

,  iiTegularities  in  trade  in,  58. 

,  kinds  of  : 

congers,  34,   105. 

dry  fish,  76. 

eels,  16,  30,  31,  396. 

herring,  30,  31,  36,  76,  140,  141, 

402. 
mackerel,  34,   105. 
stockfisli,  74. 
fisheries,    147,    162,    172,    357,    368, 

424,  486,  489. 
Fishlake,   Fisshelake,  co.   York,   ad- 

vowson  of,  355. 
fishmongers,  protection    of   craft   of, 

74,  75. 
fish  ponds,  262. 
Fissh.    See  Fish. 
Fisshacre,  Martin,  Martin  de,  64,  65, 

162. 
Fisshelake.    See  Fishlake. 
Fisshere,  John,  45. 
,    .  .  .  . ,  cornmonger,  of  Dun- 
stable, 302. 
Fitelford.    See  Fiddleford. 
Fitelton.    See  Fittleton. 
Fithelere,  Peter,  488. 
Fitlyng,  Thomas,  294. 
Fittleton,    Fitelton,    co.    Wilts,    27, 
354. 

,  Hacklestone,  Hakeneston  in, 

107,  208,  271. 


INDEX. 

Fitz  Alan,  Richard,  469. 

,    .  .  .  . ,   earl   of  Arundel   and 

Surrey,    65,    68,    69,    70,    123, 

237,  238,  239,  246,  377,  403, 

466,  472. 
,    .  .  .  . ,    .  .  .  . ,  arrayer  of  men 

at  arms  in  Sussex,  326. 
,    .....    .  .  .  . ,  lord  of  Brom- 

field,    Yale,    Chirk,    Oswestry 

and  Clvm,  371. 
Fitz  Elys,  Margaret  wife  of  Robert, 

27. 

,  Robert,  27. 

Fitz  Gerald,  Beatrice,  countess  Des- 
mond, 154,  180. 

,  Maurice,  earl  of  Kildare,  58. 

Fitz  Heir,  John,  23. 

Fitz  John,  Fitz  Johan,  Edmund,  384, 

405. 

,  John,  476. 

Fitz  Nichol,  Elizabeth  (de  Caunton) 

wife  of  Maurice  son  of  John, 

452. 
,  John  son  of  Maurice  son  of 

John,  452. 

,  Maurice  son  of  John,  452. 

Fitz  Payn,  Robert,  knight,  473. 
Fitz     Ralph,     Filz     Rauf,     Hugh, 

186. 

,  William,  69. 

Fitz   Richard,   John,    of   Olney,    54, 

393. 

,  Thomas,  173. 

Fitz  Roger,  Alan  son  of  Henry,  351, 

352. 

,  Henry,  352. 

,    Thomas    brother    of    Alan, 

352. 
Fitz  Simond,   Fitz  Simon,  Edward, 

knight,  49. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Hertford,  481. 
Fitz    Urse    (Orsini),    Reynold,    car- 
dinal,  dean  of  Salisbury,   2. 
Fitz  Walter,  Fitz  Wauter,  Joan  wife 

of  Robert,  247. 

,  John,  17,   247. 

,  Thomas,  lord  of  Daventrv, 

235,   316. 

,  uncle  of  Walter,  469. 

,  Walter,  173. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  lord      of      Woodham 

Walter,  469. 

-,  .  .  .  . ,  son  of  John,  247. 

Fitz  Waryn,  Amice  wife  of  William, 

5. 

Philip,  knight,  466. 

,  William,  of  Wliittington,  5, 

6. 
Fitz  Wauter.    See  Fitz  Walter. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


563 


Fitz  William,  Robert,  197. 

Cf.  WilliaTii. 

Flamvyllo,  Fiaumvilk',  William,  Wil- 
liam de,  knight,  270. 

,   .  .  .  .,  knight  of  tiio  shiro  of 

Lcicost(T,   273. 

Flanders,  130,  141,  153,  159,  247, 
258,  3()2,  364,  420,  441,  442, 
455. 

,  count  of.    See  Lewis. 

,  fishermen  from,  30,  31. 

,  merchants  of,  420,  451. 

,  seamen  of,  1  ^0. 

,  ships  of,  440,  451. 

Flatherwyk,  parish  of  West  Ham,  co. 
Essex,  92. 

Flaumville.    See  Flamvylle. 

Fleccher  {alias  Bele),  John,  28. 

Flechyngg.    See  Fletching. 

Fleet,  Flete,  co.  Lincoln,  277. 

,  deed  dated  at,  277. 

,  manor  of,  469. 

,  places  named  in,  277. 

Flegard,  John,  313. 

Flemyng,  Flemmyng,  Henry,  col- 
lector of  customs  at  South- 
ampton, 333. 

,  Richard,  396. 

,  Simon,  58. 

,  William,  coroner  for  Rut- 
land, 335. 

Fletching,  Flechyngg,  co.  Sussex, 
277. 

Flete.    See  Fleet. 

Flete,  John  de,  394,  395. 

,  Lawrence  de,  277. 

,  Ralph,   390. 

,  Roger  de,  146,  271. 

Flettewyk,  Fletwyk.    *S'ee  Flitwick. 

Fletwyk,  Flettewyk,  David  de,  497. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  heirs  of,  495. 

Flitton  [in  North  Molton],  co. 
Devon,   81. 

Flitwick,  Flettewyk,  Fletwyk,  co. 
Bedford,  fees  in,  497. 

Flixton  [co.  Lancaster],  474. 

,  Urmston,  Hurmestonin,  474. 

Floore,  Flore,  co.  Northampton,  434. 

Florak,  Thomas,  464. 

Flordon  [co.  Norfolk],  Roger  parson 
of.  474. 

Flore.    See  Floore. 

Florence,  merchants  of,  215,  455. 

Flour,  John,  of  Codenham,  267. 

,  William,  496. 

Fobbing,  Fobbyng  [co.  Essex],  323. 

Fogghe,  Joan  wife  of  Sir  Thomas, 
176. 

Fokery,  John,  400. 

Fokyngton.    See  Folkington. 


Folejambe,    Folojaumbo.      See   Fol- 

jaumbo. 
Folevyle.    See  Folville. 
Foli  Johan.    See  Folly  John. 
Foliot,  John,  parson  of  Slinfold,  306. 
Foljaumbe,  Folcjjamhe,  Folejaumbe, 
Godfrey,  Godfrey  d(%'78,  179. 
,    ....,   justice    of   oyer   and 

terminer  in  Lancashire,   297. 
,    .  .  .  . ,    ....   of  the  forest  in 

Lancashire,  476. 

,    ,  knight,  490. 

,    ,  of   Derbyshire, 

297. 
,    .  .  .  . ,    ....    of  the  shire  of 

Derby,  169. 
Folkington,  Fokyngton  [co.  Sussex], 

advowson  of,  472. 
,  lord  of.     See  Warre,  Roger 

la. 

,  manor  of,  472. 

Folkyngham,  John  de,  clerk,  55,  176, 

278,  396,  464. 
,    .  .  .  . ,  parson  of  West  Wal- 
ton, 77. 
Folleswych.      See  FuUeswich. 
Folly   John,   Foli   Johan   [parish   of 

Winkfield],  co.  Berks,  335. 

,  manor  of,  133. 

Folville,  Folevyle,  Geoffrey  de,  43. 

,  John,  398. 

,  ....  brother  of  Geoffrey  de, 

43. 
Fool,     Robert,     otherwise     William 

Cheupayn,  48,  49. 
football,  prohibition  of,  181. 
Foots  Cray.   See  Cray. 
Ford,  CO.  Northumberland,  Etal  in, 

320,   337. 
,  Fordeshome  [co.  Salop],  237, 

238 

,  Old.    See  Old  Ford. 

Fordam.    See  Fordham. 
Forde,  Henry  de,  466. 

,  Robert  atte,  427. 

,  Thomas  son  of  John  de  la, 

of  Hemel  Hempstead,  207. 
,     William     de,     parson     of 

Ebrington,  405. 
,    ....   son  of  John  de  la,  of 

Hemel   Hempstead,   207. 
Fordelee,     Geoffrey     de,     of     Great 

Yarmouth,  402. 
Fordeshome.    See  Ford. 
Fordham,    Fordam,    co.    Cambridge, 

25,  35,  37. 
Fordingbridge,  Fordyngbrigge,  Ford- 

ynggebrigge,    co.    Hants,    62, 

389. 
,  Overburgate  in,  22. 


564 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Forest,  the,  assize  of,  28,  37,  476. 

,  justices  for  pleas  of,  28,  240, 

476. 

,  keeper  of,  north    of    Trent. 

See  Latymer,  Wnham  ; 
Neville,  Ralph  de. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  south  of  Trent.     See 

Wykeham    William  de. 

See  also  Alice  Holt,Bernwood, 

Braden,  Clarendon,  Dean, 
Galtres,  Grovely,  Inglewood, 
Kinfare,  Kingswood,  Knares- 
borough,  Lancaster,  Morf, 
New  Forest,  Pickering  Ly the, 
Rockingham,  Rutland,  Sale, 
Sapley,  Selwood,  Sherwood, 
Shotover,  Stow  Wood,  Wal- 
tham,  Windsor,  Woolmer, 
Wychwood. 

Forester,  Walter,  122. 

,    alderman  of  London, 

376. 

,  William,  of  Welby,  310. 

....     Kynesdeley    son    of 
Hugh,  382,  383. 

Gf.  Forster. 

Fornham  St.  Martin  [co.  Suffolk], 
279. 

Forse,  John,  400. 

Forster,  Bartholomew,  339. 

,  Richard,  477. 

,  Robert,  484. 

,  Roger,  L 

,  ....  le,  son  of  Roger,  1. 

,   Walter   son   of   Ellis  le,   of 

Harlow,  173. 

Cf.  Forester. 

Fortho,  Forthho,  co.  Northampton, 
384. 

Fortibus,  William  de,  earl  of  Albe- 
marle,  33. 

Fotescreie.    See  Cray. 

Foucher,  John,  knight  of  the  shire 
of  Derby,  480. 

Foulesthorp.     See  Thorpe. 

Foulmire,  Foulmere,  co.  Cambridge, 
391. 

Foulthorp,  William  de,  285. 

Cf.  Fulthorp. 

Fournyvall,  Joan  wife  of  Thomas  de, 
146,   147,  223,  248. 

,  Thomas  de,  knight,  147,  223. 

,  William  brother  of  Thomas 

de,  223,  248. 

Fours  Mill,  FowersmuU  in  Shriven- 
ham  [co.  Berks],  369. 

Fowberry,  Fulbery  [parish  of  Chat- 
ton],  CO.  Northimiberland, 
147. 

FowersmuU.    See  Fours  Mill. 


Fowey,  Fowy,  co.  Cornwall,  bailiffs, 

customers,  etc.  of,  137. 

,  port  of,  102. 

Foxcote,  John  de,  375,  460. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  sliire  of 

Hertford,   169. 

,  Thomas  de,  68. 

Foxearth,   Foxherde,   Foxhirde   [co. 

Essex],  deed  dated  at,  186. 
,  parson  of.     See  Becheshale, 

Richard. 
Foxefeld.    See  Froxfield. 
Foxele,  Foxle,  Foxlee,  Agnes  wife  of 

Jolm  de,  69. 

,  John  de,  69. 

, ,  knight,  396,  474,  503. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Southampton,   1 68. 

,  of  Norwich,  203. 

foxes,  411,  426. 

Foxherde,  Foxhirde.     See  Foxearth. 

Foxhull.     -See  Foxleys  ? 

Foxle,  Foxlee.    See  Foxele. 

Foxleys   [in    Bray]     ?  Foxhull,    co. 

Berks,  107. 
Foxton,  Richard,  Richard  de,  42,  43. 
Frakenham.      See  Freckenham. 
Framlingham,  Castle  Framlyngham 

[co.  Suffolk],  parson  of.     See 

Meuryk,  William. 
Frampton,     Frompton,     co.     Glou- 
cester, manor  of,  446. 
France,  451. 
,  aliens  of  the  power  of,  2,  153, 

154,  417,  418. 
,  chamberlain  of.      See  John 

count  of  Tankarville. 
,   constable  of.      See  Fienles, 

Robert  de. 

,  court  of,  318. 

,  hostages  of,  362,  384,  408. 

,  king  of.    See  John. 

,  peace  with,  128. 

war  with,  2,  21,  94,  1 15,  417. 

France  [in  Blandford]  ?    Franc',  co. 

Dorset,   481. 
Frank.    See  Fraimk. 
Frankeleyn,     Frankelyn,     Fraunke- 

leyn,  Richard,   170. 

,  Thomas,  86,  462,  463. 

Frankton  [co.  Warwick],  71. 
Fraunceys,  Adam,  92,  127,  206. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  24, 

477. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  mercer  of  London,  377. 

,  John,  bailiff  of  Aldington, 456. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  cordwainer,  93. 

Richard,  296. 

,  . .  .  . ,  of  Holbeach,  277. 

Thomas,  190. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


565 


Frauiik,  Frank,  Jolin,  44,  50,  51. 

,  of  Hampsliiro,  56. 

,  .....  of  Soutliainpton,  coro- 
ner for  Hants,  228,  247. 

, ,  of  Worcester,  203. 

,    . .  .  . ,  verderer  in  the  New 

Forest,   228. 

Fraunkoleyn.    See  Frankeleyn. 

Freckenliam,  Frakenliam  [co.  Suf- 
folk], parson  of.  See  Boiu'ne, 
Robert  de. 

Fredelound.   See  Freeland. 

Freebridge,  Frothobrigge  hundred, 
CO.  Norfolk,  320. 

Freeland  Wood,  Fredelound,  in 
Mulbarton,  co.  Norfolk,   312. 

Frekelton,  Frokelton,  John,  John  de, 
coroner  for  co.  York,  30,  217, 
429. 

Freland,  Walter  de,  clerk>^172. 

Freman,  John,  391. 

Thomas,  391. 

,  Walter,  45. 

William,  72. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  of  Brackley,  searcher 

of  forfeitures  at  Calais,  25,  37, 
291. 

Fremlee,  Thomas,  268. 

Fremlyngham,  John,  389. 

Frendesbyry,  Nicholas  de,  of  Kent, 
478. 

Frennyngham.     See  Farningham. 

Frensh,  Frensshe,  John,  of  Brent- 
wood, 392. 

, ,  of  Shenfield,  310. 

,  William  le,  387. 

Cf.  Freynsh. 

Frensted,  Thomas  de,  fisher,  of 
London,   58. 

Frenyngham,  John  de,  11. 

, ,     ....     son    of     Ralph    de, 

320. 

,  Katherine  wife  of  Ralph  de, 

10,   11. 

,  Ralph  de,  son  of  John  de, 

knight,    11. 

Frere.  John,  of  Dereham,  the  son, 
203. 

,  Thomas,  306. 

Frereman,  Richard,  burgess  of  Bed- 
ford, 274,  481. 

Frerote,  Andrew,  merchant  of 
Amiens,  257,  258. 

Fresden,  Fershesdonby  Heigh  worth, 
Freshesdon  [in  Highworth], 
CO.  Wilts,  165,  166. 

Fresel,  John,  365,  366. 

Freshesdon.    See  Fresden. 

Fretewell,  Ralph,  45. 

Frethebrigge.     See  Freebridge. 


Fretheby,  .\lico  daughter  of  Ed- 
ward, 191 

Edward,  191. 

,  Joan  wife  of  Edward,  191. 

Cf.  Frytheby. 

Fretheleye,     See  Frotheleyo. 

Freton,  John  de,  clerk,  396. 

Frettewell.     See  Fritwell. 

Freville,  Frivillo,  Fryville,  Fryvyle, 
Baldwin  de,  170. 

, ,  knight,  162,  169,  302. 

, , ,  the  elder,  288. 

,  Joan  de,  170. 

Freynsh,  Joan  wife  of  Nicholas  le, 
178. 

,  Nicholas  le,  of  Reigate,  178. 

Cf.  Frenshe. 

Friars,  Minorite,  431. 

Preachers,    houses    of.       See 

Chelmsford  ;  Dartf ord  ;   Lon- 
don, places  named. 

,  professor  of  order  of . 

See  Castro,  Gervase  de. 

Frisby.    See  Firsby. 

Frisraershe  [co.  York — sub7nerged], 
390. 

Fritwell,  Frettewell,  co.  Oxford,  fees 
in,   496. 

FrivQle.    See  Freville. 

Frokelton.    See  Frekelton. 

Frome,  river.    See  Stour. 

Frome,  John  de,  399. 

,  Richard  de,  13. 

Frome  Bonvile,  Frome  Bonvyleston 
[in  Stinsford],  co.  Dorset,  165. 

,  manor  of,  399. 

Whitfield,    Fromewhitefeld, 

CO.  Dorset,  advowson  of,  9. 

,  manor  of,  8. 

Fromond,  Jolm,  of  Hadlow,  458, 
459. 

Frompton.    See  Frampton. 

Fro mp ton,  John  de,  164. 

,  Walter  de,  fanner  of  sub- 
sidy, 484. 

Frost,  John,  constable  of  tlie  staple 
at  Calais,  26. 

Walter,  368. 

Frotheleye,  Fretheleye,  Frothelay, 
William  de,  escheator  in 
Derbyshire,   18,  28,  29,   108. 

,   .  .  .  . ,   ....  in  Notts,  15,  17, 

28,  29,  32,  108,  423. 

Frowe,  Peter,  of  Patriiigton,  390. 

Frowyk,  Henry  de,  of  Middlesex,  92. 

Thomas,  268. 

, de,  190. 

Froxfield,  Foxefeld,  co.  Wills,  fee  in, 
498. 

Fry te well,  Thomas,  475 


566 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Fryth,  William  del,  370. 

Frytheby,  Edmund  de,  of  York- 
shire, 460. 

Of.  Fretheby. 

Fryville,  Fryvyle.    See  Freville. 

Ftdbeck,  Fulbek,  co.  Lincoln, 
129. 

Fulbery.    See  Fowberry. 

Fulboxirn,  Fulborne  [co.  Cambridge], 
church  of,  47,  67. 

Fulburne,  William  de,  clerk,  490. 

Fulhope  in  Redesdale,  co.  North- 
umberland, 440. 

Fulkyngharai.     See  Falkingham. 

Fulham,  John  de,  267. 

FuUeswich,  Folleswych,  William, 
William  de,  69. 

, ,  of  Dartford,  66. 

Fulmer,  co.  Buckingham,  32L 

Fulnetby,  Thomas  de,  knight,   274. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Lincoln,  273,  480. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  sheriff  of  co.  Lincoln, 

255. 

Fulsham,  Benedict  de,  citizen  of 
London,   189,  337. 

,  Richard  son  of  Benedict  de, 

189. 

,    .  .  . . ,    citizen     of    London, 

336. 

Fulthorp,  Roger  de,  271,  274,  295, 
296,  400,  401. 

Cf.  Foulthorp. 

Fychyngfeld.     See  Finchingfield. 

Fyfhide,  Fyfhyde.  .See  Fifhide, 
Fyfield. 

Fyfield,  Fiffide,  co.  Berks,  397. 

,  Fyfhide,  co.  Essex,  488. 

,  Fyvede  [co.  Wilts],  fee  in, 

498. 

Fylol.    See  Fillol. 

Fyn,  Beatrice  wife  of  Peter,  385. 

,  Peter,  of  Hilgay,  385. 

Fyncheden,  Fynchynden,  William, 
William"  de,  42,  69,  83,  87, 
193,  467. 

,    justice    of    assize    in 

Iftnt,  66. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    ....     in   cos.    Salop, 

Stafford,  Worcester,  Glou- 
cester and  Hereford,  191,  311. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  justice  of  the  forest  in 

Lancashire,  476. 

, knight,  271,  383. 

Fynke,  John,  463. 

Fynthorp.    See  Finthorp. 

Fyssh.    See  Fish. 

Fytlyng,  Thomas  de,  knight  of  the 
shire  of  Hertford,  169,  481. 

Fyvede.    .See  Fyfield. 


G 

Gaddesby,    Geoffrey    de,    abbot    of 

Selby,  449. 
Gaddesden,    Little,   Little   Gatesden 

[co.  Hertford],  207. 
Gaddon  [co.  Devon],  69. 
Galon,  John,  of  Great  Walsingham, 

408. 
Galvun,  William,  of  Kent,  379. 
Galtres,    Galtrys    forest,    co.    York, 

election  of  verderers  of,  245. 

regard  of,  383. 

Gambonesplace     in     Streetley,     co. 

Cambridge,  350. 
Gamboiin,  William,  482. 
Gamen,  John,  88. 

,  William,  211,  490. 

Gampton,  John  de,  405. 
Garboldesham,   John  son   of   Roger 

de,  378. 
Garboldisham,     Garboldesham     [co. 

Norfolk],  deed  dated  at,  378. 
Gardener.    See  Gardiner. 
Garderobe,   Henry   de   la,   of   Berk- 
shire, 92. 
Gardiner,        Gardener,        Gardyner, 

Adam  le,  of  Pendley,  207. 

,  John,  of  Westminster,   167. 

,  Robert  le,  312. 

Garforth,  Gerford,  co.  York,  360. 

,  mill  in,  360. 

Garlek,  John,  378. 

.......  Thomas,  of  Cheshire,  97. 

Garlekmongere,  Adam  son  of  Henry, 

of  Northampton,  400. 
Garman,  Robert,  313. 
Garounde.    See  Guerande. 
Garston,  co.  Hertford,  298. 
Garstone,  John  atte,  of  Bletchingly, 

54. 

,  Roger  son  of  John  atte,  54. 

,  Walter  atte,  166,  173,  377. 

Garton,  John  de,  of  London,  490. 
Garwynton,    Thomas   de,    of   Kent, 

296. 
Gascoigne,  Eliot  de,  vintner,  258. 

,  Gentiel,  441,  444. 

,  William,  210. 

Gasconv,      7,     8,     75,     140,       258, 

487. 
,  controller  of,  140. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


567 


Gascony — cont. 

,  soTiosclial  of.     Sec  Stafford, 

Richard  do. 

,  vintnors  of,  74,  75. 

,  wines  of,  158. 

Gattecote.    See  Catcott. 

Gatosdon.    See  Gaddosden. 

Gatton  [co.  Surrey],  manor  of,  68. 

Gatyn,  John,  478. 

Gaucebv,  Jolin,  merchant  of  Conk', 
i03. 

Gayhnrst,  Gothurst  [co.  Bucking- 
ham], 54, 

deed  dated  at,  54. 

Gaynesford,  John  de,  66. 

Gayrgravp,  WiUiani  de,  83. 

Gayton,  co.  Northampton,  307,  434. 

Gedelyng.    See  Gedhng. 

Gedeneye,  WiUiam  de,  of  Fleet,  277. 

Gedling,  Gedelyng,  co.  Nottingham, 
parson  of.  See  Leveryngton, 
Sir  Thomas  de. 

Geeton,  South,  water  of  South- 
gedenoye  [creek  in  river 
Colne,  CO.  Essex],  157. 

Geffray,  Simon,  63. 

Gegge,  Thomas,  of  Newport,  309. 

Genoa,  Janua,  Janue,  Jene,  316,  455. 

,  sliip  of,  Avrecked,  316. 

Gent,  Robert,  170. 

Gentilcors,  Nicholas,  462,  463. 

Geof¥reJ^  Robert  son  of,  406. 

,  Thomas,  of  Bennington,  446. 

Gerard  lord  of  Boberch,  388. 

Gerard,  Gherard,  Richard,  of  Dor- 
chester, 204. 

,  William,  489. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Norwich,  farmer  of 

subsidy,  203. 

Gerford.    See  Garforth. 

Germayn,  Germeyn,  Roger,  187, 
488. 

Gernereye.     See  Guernsey. 

Gernoun,  John,  knight,  171,  197,  461, 
463,  497. 

,  William,  495. 

Gervais,  Gervays,  Gerveyse,  Joan 
wife  of  Martin,   178. 

,   John,   of   Winchester,    481, 

482. 

,  Martin,  178. 

,      Nicholas,      of     Merstham, 

178. 

Gerv,  Geoffrey,  391. 

Gest,  John,  257. 

Cf.  Gist. 

Ghent  in  Flanders,  striped  cloths  of, 
420. 

Gherard.    See  Gerard. 

Gibson,  William,  283. 


Gidding,  Gyddyng,  co.  Huntingdon, 

manor  of,  41  1. 
GifTard,  Gyffard,   Edmund,  45,  369, 

487. 

, farmer  of  subsidy,  380. 

, ,  of  Standlak(i,  471-474. 

,  Robert,   186. 

Giggleswick,  Gikeleswyk,   co.   York, 

manor  of,  140. 

,  Cleatop,  Clethorpe  in,  140. 

Gilberd,  Geoffrey,  27. 
Gildeford.    See  (Juildford. 
Gildeford,    Guldeford,    Andrew    de, 

444. 

,  Henry  de,  82,  84. 

,  William  do,  140,  244. 

Gildemore,    Simon,    of   Cherrington, 

265. 
Gildesbm-gh,      Gildisbury,      Guldes- 

borgh,    John,    John    de,    42, 

178,    179,    464. 

Cf.  Gylesburgh. 

Giles,  William,  of  Edwinstow,  28. 
Gillingham,    Gillyngham,   co.    Kent, 

206. 
Gillyng,  Richard  de,  84. 
Gillyngham.    See  Gillingham. 
Gillyngham,     Gylvngham,     Richard 

de,  of  Kent,  489. 

,  Thomas  de,  of  Kent,  279. 

Gilmyn,    Simon,    burgess    of    Dun- 
stable, 302. 
Gimingham,  Gymyngham  [co.  Nor- 
folk], 392. 
Gippe,  John,  405. 
Gippewic.    See  Ipswich. 
Gippewico,  Roger  de,  cordwainer  of 

London,  208. 
girdles,  441,  444. 
Girsonsfield  [in  Elsdon]  ?  Grenesone- 

haseles,  co.  Northumberland, 

440. 
Girton,  co.  Nottingham,  Mering  in, 

444. 
Gisburne.     See  Guisbrough. 
Gissilkyn.     See  Gyssilkyn. 
Gist,  John,  mayor  of  Exeter,  264. 
Glamorgan  [co.  Glamorgan],  lord  of. 

See  Despenser,  Edward  le. 
Glashare.     Glassar,     co.     Kilkenny, 

425. 
Glassanby.    See  Glassonby. 
Glassar.    See  Glashare. 
Glassonby,     Glassanby     [parish     of 

Addingham,  co.  Cumberland], 

36. 
Glaston,  Gleston,  co.  Rutland,  manor 

of,  22. 
Glastonbury,  co.  Somerset,  abbot  of, 

1,  89,  210,  468. 


568 


GENERAL 


Glastonbury,  abbot  of — cont. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  bailiff  of.     Sec  Broiin, 

Richard. 

,    monk    of.        See    Zouche, 

William  la. 
Glaumvylle,  John,  coroner  of  Dorset, 

219. 
Glendale,  Agnes  wife  of  William  de, 
477. 

William,  William  de,  citizen 

of  London,  477. 

,     .  .  .  . ,    clerk    of    the    great 

wardrobe,  122. 
Gleston.    See  Glaston. 
Glorie,  John  atte,  86. 
Glossary  of  uncommon  words,  etc.  : 
adventitii,   312. 
birlesteres,   75. 
felware,    376. 
ferland,  282. 
gorstes,  424. 
kernes,  108. 
landtolpeny,  360. 
leyhalymode,  74,  75. 
miches,   172. 
riddeinges,  282. 
serjauntlof,  172. 
shamelhous,  456,  457. 
tisters,  75. 
waddasse,  441. 
wodewexen,  395. 
Gloucester,  bridge  at,  repair  of,  34, 
85. 

castle,  constable  of,  85. 

,  repair  of,  34. 

,  St.  Peter's  abbey,  abbot  of, 

34. 
Gloucester,  county  of,  375,  475,  483, 
490. 

,    escheator   in.      See   Benet, 

John  ;    Lutteleye,   Pliilip  de ; 
Prestwode,  Henry  de. 

,  justices  in,  191. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  168, 

273,  480. 

,  sheriff  of,   34,   35,   97,    103, 

109,  138,  221,  331,  335.    See 
also  Tracy,  Jolin. 

,  subsidy'in,  203,  484. 

Gloucestre,    Stephen    de,   fisher,    of 

London,  58. 
Glover,  John,  366. 

,  William,  William  le,  396. 

Gluffe,  Walter,  395. 

Glusburn,    co.    York,    Prestrede   in, 

360. 
Gnatyshale,    Jolin   de,    of   Norwich, 
205. 

,  William  brother  of  John  de, 

205. 


INDEX. 

Gobet,  John,  423. 

Godbody,  Peter,  of  Wadenhoe,  375. 

Godchepe,  Henry,  farmer  of  subsidy, 
70,  71,  88. 

Godde,  Joan,  446. 

,  Massilia,  446. 

Goddes,  William,  269. 

Godefray,   John,   289. 

,  Nicholas,  289. 

Godefreye,  William,  of  Leire,  chap- 
lain, 176. 

Godeman,  Godman,  John,   185. 

,  Robert,  goldsmith  of  Lon- 
don, 203. 

Godeneston.    See  Goodnestone. 

Goderich,  Goderych,  Goderyk,  John, 
384,  398. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the  king's  Serjeant  and 

cook,  398,  399. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  yeoman  of  the  lung's 

kitchen,  213. 

,  Robert,  skinner,  209. 

Godestowe,  Simon  de,  82. 

Godman.    See  Godeman. 

Godmersham,  co.  Kent,  300,  301. 

Godstone  [co.  Surrey],  Lagham, 
Lageham  in,  272,  298,  299. 

,  Harden,  Muryden  in,  298. 

Godyn,  John,  chaplain,  24. 

Gogh,  John,  clerk,  436,  437. 

Golafre.    See  Golofre. 

Goldhanger,  Goldhangre,  co.  Essex, 
197. 

Goldsmith,  Goldsmyth,  John, 
citizen  of  Worcester,  481. 

,  Thomas,  of  Bodmin,  166. 

Goldyng,  John,  294. 

William,  282. 

Goldyngham,  Alexander  de,  ver- 
derer  of  Waltham  forest,  247. 

Goldyngton,  Jolin  son  of  Sir  John 
de,  43. 

,    Joyce    wife    of     John    de, 

426. 

Golofre,  Golafre,  Jolm,  249,  496. 

,  ....,  knight,  397,  47L  472, 

473,  474. 

,  Nicholas,  knight,  406. 

,  Thomas,  497,  498. 

Gonale,  Geoffrey,  185. 

Gonerbj'  [parish  of  Hatcliffe,  co. 
Lincoln],   87,   88. 

Gonyldesbiiry.     See  Gvmnersbury. 

Goodmanham,  Guthmundham,  co. 
York,  parson  of.  See  Lewys, 
Robert. 

Goodnestone  [by  Wingham],  Godene- 
ston [co.  Kent],  deed  dated  at, 
200. 

Goodwyne,  Thomas,  469. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


569 


Goro     [in     West      Lavington],      co. 

Wilts,  manor  of,  321. 
Gorges,  Theobald,  224. 
Goring      [co.     Oxford],      Elveudon, 

Ilvedon  in,  241). 
Goscbourne,  Henry  de,  49,  370. 

John  de,  49,  184,    185. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  auditor  of  the  queen's 

accounts,  187. 
Gosoyo,  John,   1G6. 

,  Maud  wife  of  John,  166. 

Gosford      [co.     Suffolk — submerged], 

bailiffs,  customers  etc.  of,  137. 
Gosh.all,  Gozehale  [in  Ash,  co.  Kent], 

446. 
gospels,  oath  upon  the,  232. 
Gothiu'st.    See  Gayluu'st. 
Goukethorp.    See  Gowthorpe. 
Goundevillo,   Jolm,   parson   of  Chil- 

bolton,  484,  485. 
Gour.    See  Gower. 
Gourneye,  Edmund,  justice,   384. 

Of.  Gurneye. 

Goutebj%  Hugh  de,  clerk,  457. 
Gower  [co.  Glamorgan],  lord  of.    See 

Bello     Campo,     Thomas     de, 

earl  of  Warwick. 
Gower,  Gour,  John,   185,   294,   345, 

379,  465,  482. 

,  Katherine,  224,  225. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  tenant  in  chief,  317. 

gowns.  141. 

Gowthorpe,    Goukethorp    [parish   of 

Swardeston],  co.  Norfolk,  fees 

in,  497. 
Gozehale.    See  Goshall. 
Gi-afe,  John,  of  Sluys,  441. 
Grafham,     Grofham,    co.     Hunting- 
don, manor  and  advowson  of, 

411. 
Grafton  [co.  Northampton],   279. 
Manor,  Grafton  by  Bremes- 

grave,  co.  Worcester,  manor 

of,  324. 
Regis,   Grafton  by   Yerdele 

Cobyoun,    co.    Northampton, 

deed  dated  at,  297. 
Granby   [co.   Nottingham],   lord   of. 

See  Dencourt,  William. 
Grandi    Sono,    Grandesono,    Gravin- 

son,     John     de,     bishop     of 

Exeter,  125. 

,  Thomas  de,  knight,  460,  465. 

Grandpont,        Grauntpaunte        [co. 

Berks,  near  Oxford],  402. 
Graneby.    See  Craneby. 
Gransden,  Little,  Little  Grantisden, 

CO.  Cambridge,  131. 
Grantham,  co.   Lincoln,  Manthorpe 

in,  420. 


Grantham,  John,  490. 
Graiitisden.     See  Gransden. 
Grasby,  Grisseby  [co.  I.iincoln],  88. 
Grauleriis,     William     de,     prior     of 

Monks  Kirby,  172. 
Grauncort,  Andrew,   187. 
Graunger,  Walter,  neif,  286. 
Graunson.    See  Grandi  Sono. 
Graunt,  Richard  le,  415. 
Grauntpaunte.     See  Grandpont. 
Grava.    Sec  Grove. 
Gravelee,  Jolm  de,  54. 
Gravesend  [co.   Kent],   letters  close 

dated  at,  322,  323. 
Gravesende,  Graveshend,  Joan  wife 

of  Thomas  de,  knight,   78. 

,  John,  draper  of  London,  379. 

Gray.    See  Grey. 

Graylond,  Robert,  490. 

Grayne,  William  son  of  Robert,  neif, 

285. 
Green's   Norton,   co.    Northampton, 

Caswell,  Cai'sewell  in,  434. 
Greetham,   Gretham   [co.   Rutland], 

366,  464. 
Gregory,  Gregori,  Mariota  daughter 

of  Robert  son  of,  de  Burton,  7. 
,  Richard,  the  elder,   61,   86, 

368,  459. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  the  younger,  61,  368, 

459. 
Grenacres,  Richard  de,  knight,  145. 

,  Robert  de,  knight,  145. 

Grendon.     See  Crendon. 

Grendon,  John  de,  28. 

,    ....    son   of   Luke   de,    of 

Abington,    69. 

,  Warin  de,  23. 

,  William  de,  clerk,  461. 

Grene,  parishes  of  Northfieet,  South- 
fleet    and    Swanscombe,    co. 

Kent,  manor  of,  65. 
Grene,  Henry,  Henry  de,  90,  123. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  chief  justice,  152. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    ....    of    the    King's 

Bench,  to   hold  pleas   before 

the  king,  7,  57,  63,  72,  98,  106, 

112. 
,  .  .  .  . , ,  delivery  of 

rolls  by,  145. 
,    .  .  .  . ,  justice  to  hold  pleas 

before  the  king.  156,  180. 
....""..,  Joan  wife  of  Nicholas,  366, 

464. 
,     John     atte,     butcher,     of 

Aldgate  Street,  185. 

,  Nicholas,  297,  366,  464. 

,  Richard  atte,  of  Cherrington, 

265. 
Thomas  de  la,  103. 


570 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Grenesonehaseles.     See  Girsonfield  ? 
Grencstede.    See  Grinstead. 
Grenewych.     See  Grenwyche. 
Grenrige,  Isabel  de,  283. 
Grenstede.    See  Grinstead. 
Grenwyche,  Grenewych,  Isabel  wife 

of  John,  487. 

,  John,  487. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Weston  Underwood, 

54. 
Gresgarth  in  Inglewood  forest,  41. 
Gresham,  co.  Norfolk,  manor  of,  260. 
Gresley,      John      de,        sheriff      of 

Nottinghamshire,    419. 

Cf.  Grisele. 

Gretham.    See  Greetham. 

Gretwell,     Thomas     de,     farmer    of 

subsidy,    380. 
Grey,  Gray,  Eva  de,  496. 
,   John,   John   de,   citizen   of 

Exeter,  274. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight,  166. 

, ,  of  Rotherfield,  58,  353, 

465,  471,  472,  474. 

, , ,  knight,  42. 

,  ....  son  of  John  de,  353. 

,  Reynold  de,  lord  of  Dyffryn 

Clwyd,  371. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Ruthin,  guardian  of 

the  peace  and  justice  of  oyer. 

and  terminer  in  Bedfordshire, 

467. 

,  Robert  de,  353. 

Thomas,  Thomas  de,  knight, 

292. 

, ,  of  Cavendish,  384,  386. 

, ,  ....,  knight,  170,  171. 

,  ....  son  of  Thomas  de,  170, 

171,  386. 
Greyby,  Thomas,  190. 
Greyndor,  Lawrence  de,  109. 
Greystok,  Hemy  de,  120. 
Griffyn,  Alice  wife  of  John,  162. 

,  John,  162. 

Grillus,  lyukettus,  shipmaster,  316. 
Grimescote,     Grymescote     [in    Cold 

Higham],    co.    Northampton, 

434. 
Grimsby,    Grymesby    [co.    Lincoln], 

394    441. 

,  bailiffs  of,  52,  91,  136,  440. 

,  customers  of,  1 36. 

,  mayor  of,  52,  440. 

,  port  of,  440. 

,  searchers  in,  440. 

Grimston,  Grymston  [parish  of  Wel- 

low],  CO.  Notts,  32. 
,  Grymmeston  [West  riding], 

CO.  York,  361. 
Grinel,  William,  170. 


Gringley  on  the  Hill,  Gryngele,  CO. 
Nottingham],  315. 

Grinstead,  East,  Grenestede,  Gren- 
stede, CO.  Sussex,  167,  188. 

,  . .  . .,  park  of,  167. 

Grippel,  the,  in  Fleet,  co.  lAncoln, 
277. 

Grisele,  William,  396. 

Cf.  Gresley. 

Grismond,  John,  of  London,  tailor, 
208. 

Grisseby,    See  Grasby. 

Grisseby,  William  de,  87. 

Groby  [co.  Leicester],  271. 

,  lord  of.  See  Ferrariis,  William 

de. 

Grofham.    See  Grafham. 

Orofham,  William,  of  London,  iron- 
monger, 204. 

Groidon.    See  Croydon. 

Grondesgate  in  Fleet,  co.  Lincoln, 
277. 

Groos.    »Sec  Gros. 

Groote,  Clasy,  Claysy,  merchant  of 
Almain,  441,  444. 

Gros,  Groos,  Alice  wife  of  Hugh  le, 
318 

,  Hugh  le,  318. 

,  John  le,  knight,  474. 

,    Richard,    of   Gonerby,    87, 

88. 

,  William  son  of  Hugh,  451. 

Grosmont,  Grossemount  [cos.  Here- 
ford and  Monmouth],  lord  of. 
See  John  duke  of  Lancaster. 

Groton,  Croton,  Groten  [co.  Suffolk], 
manor  of,  186. 

Grove,  co.  Berks,  402. 

,   the  [in   Bloxham]   ?  Grava, 

CO.  Oxford,  3. 

Grove,  Joan  wife  of  Walter  atte,  458. 

Grovely,  Grovele  forest,  co.  Wilts, 
415. 

Groylonde,  Robert,  212. 

Grundale.     See  Crundale. 

Gruyn,  Henry,  knight  of  the  shire  of 
Worcester,  480. 

Grymesby.    See  Grimsby. 

Grymesby,  Adam  de,  72. 

,  Edmund  de,  clerk,  437. 

,  John  de,  296. 

Grymescote.    See  Grimescote. 

Grymeston,  Robert  de,  clerk,  159. 

Grymmeston,  Grymston.         See 

Grimston. 

Gryndale,  William  de,  78. 

Gryndere,  John,  236. 

Gryngele.    Sec  Gringley. 

Grypeston.  Richard,  coroner  for 
Devon,  362. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


571 


Grys,  Nicholas,  405. 

William,  of  Essex,  468. 

(jiuataire  in  Spain,   Pascal  do,   407, 

408. 
Gudbarn,    William,    of    Patrington, 

390. 
Guorande,    Garonnde    [dep.    Loire- 

Infereure],  France,  salt  from, 

103. 
Guernsey,  Gernereye,  34. 
keeper    of.       See    Cheyne, 

Edmund. 
Guildford,  Gildeford,  Guldeford  [co. 

Surrey],  71,  269,  381. 
letters  close  dated  at,  434, 

436,  482,  483. 
park,  keeper  of.   See  Cheyne, 

Thomas. 

,  new  bridge  in,  430. 

,  repair  of,  432. 

,  surveyors  of  works  in. 

See    Brocas,    Simon  ;    Parke, 

William  atte  ;   Semere,  Peter. 
Guines,      Guynes,       Gynes       castle 

[France,  dep.  Pas-de-Calais], 9. 
,   captain  of.      See  Assheton, 

Robert  de. 
Guisbrough,  Gisburne,  co.  York,  218. 

,  prior  of,  164,  218,  219. 

Guldeford.    See  Gildeford,  Guildford. 
Guldesborgh.     See  Gildesburgh. 
Gulphey,     Gupheve,     Walter,     205, 

480. 
Gunnavs,   Gunnevs,   Roser,   coroner 

of  CO.  Lincoln,  30^,  259. 
Gunnersbury,      Gonj'ldesbury      [co. 

Middlesex],  deed  dated  at,  61. 

,  manor  of,  61. 

Gunneys.    See  Gunnays. 
Gunthorp,  William  de,  clerk,  385. 
Gunwardeby,  John  de,  212. 
Gupheye.    See  Gulphey. 
Gurneye,  Gurnay,  John,  312. 
,  ....  de,  of  Somerset,  knight, 

294. 

Cf.  Gourneye. 

Guthmundham.     See  Goodmanham. 
Guynes.    See  Guines. 
Guytyng,  Walter,  of  Evesham,  170. 
Gwrtheyrnion,      Warthynyon      [co. 

Radnor],    keeper   of   lordship 

of,   371. 
Gy,  Robert,  268. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  bailif?  of  the  abbot  of 

Westminster,  398. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Uxbridge,  81. 

Gvddyng.    See  Gidding. 

GyfTard.    See  Giffard.  " 

Gylemyn,  John,  of  Upminster,  358, 

363. 


Gylesburgh,  Henry  de,  of  North- 
amptonshire, 400. 

Cf.  Gildesburgh. 

Gylot,  Thomas,  of  Karingdon,  479. 

Gylyngham.    See  Gillyngham. 

Gymegcs,  John,  220. 

,  ....  son  of  John,  of  Stags- 
den,  229. 

Gymyngham.    See  Gimingham. 

Gynes.    See  Guines. 

Gynge.     See  Buttsbury. 

Gyngemere,  Oliver,  burg(\>is  of  Hor- 
sham, 481. 

Gynghejoyberdlavindre.  See  Butts- 
bury. 

Gyrdeler,  Robert,  sheriff  of  London, 
493. 

Gysburn,  Edmund  de,  460. 

Gyse,  William,  458. 

Gysors,  John,  269. 

Gyssilkyn,  Gissilkvn,  Peter,  441.  444, 
445. 


H 


habergeons,  441,  442. 
Hacburne.    See  Itakebourne. 
Hacche.    See  Hatch  Beauchamp. 
Hacche,      Hatche,       Robert,      237, 

344. 

, de,  78. 

Hach,  William  atte,  50. 
Hachesham.    See  Hatcham. 
Hacklestone,  Hakeneston  [parish  of 

Fittleton],     co.     Wilts,      ad- 

vowson  of  chapel  of,  208,  271. 

,  manor  of,  107,  208,  271. 

Hackleton,    Hakelton    [in    Pidding- 

ton],   CO.   Northampton,   435. 
Hacknev,  Hakeneye,  co.  Middlesex, 

53,   192. 
Hacthorp.     Sec  Hatherop. 
Hadclif.    See  Hatcliffe,  Hatteclif. 
Haddele,  John  de,  461. 
Haddenham,  Hadenham,  Isle  of  Ely 

[co.  Cambridge],  268. 
Hadderesham.  Hadresham,  John  de, 

66,  452,  453. 
,  ....  son  of  William  de,  452, 

453. 
,  William  de,  tenant  in  chief, 

452,  453. 
Haddestoke.    See  Hadstock. 


572 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Haddon,     West,     Westhaddon,     co. 

Northampton,  434. 
Haddon,  Jolin  de,  the  king's  serjeant 

at  arms,  116. 
,      Wilham     de,      abbot      of 

Thorney,  149 
Hadenam,  John,  383. 
Hadenhall.    See  Hadnall. 
Hadonham.    See  Haddenham. 
Hadesco,  Wilham  dc,   abbot  of  St. 

Benet's  Holme,   110. 
Hadham,  Robert  de,  330. 
Hadlow,  Haudlo,  co.  Kent,  230,  231, 

458. 

manorof,  230,  231. 

Hadnall,  Hadenhall,  co.  Salop,  273. 
Hadresham.     See  Hadderesham. 
Hadstock,   Haddestoke   [co.   Essex], 

parson    of.        See    Shankton, 

Henry   de. 
Hadyngton.    See  Headington. 
Hagbourne,      Westhakeborne,      co. 

Berks,  manor  of,   394. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  court  of,  394. 

,  places  named  in,  395. 

Hager,  Hugh,  367. 

Haghe,  John  de,  274. 

Thomas  son  of  William  de, 

63. 

,  William  de,  274. 

Hailey,     Haille     [in     Witney],     co. 

Oxford,  475. 
Haiwode.    See  Haywode. 
Hakeborne,  Hacburne,  Hakebourne, 

Gilbert  de,  394. 
,  Robert,  Robert  de,  48,  82, 

271,  398. 
Hakelton.    See  Hackleton. 
Hakeneston.    See  Hacklestone. 
Hakeneye.    See  Hackney. 
Haket,  Adam,  489. 

,  Thomas.  172. 

Hakthorp.    See  Hatherop. 
Halden,    Haldenne,    William,    Wil- 
liam de,  163,  279,  289. 
Haldenbv,  Robert  son  of  William  de, 

366. 
Haldenne.     See  Halden. 
Hale,  Henry  in  the,   fishmonger  of 

London,   205. 
,  Joan  wife  of  John,  of  Rain- 
ham,  205. 
,   ....   wife  of  John  de  la,  of 

Dorset,  61,  62. 

,  John  atte,  knight,  399. 

,  John  de  la,  knight,  163,  164, 

389. 

, ,  of  Dorset,  61,  62. 

,   .....  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Dorset,  168,  480. 


Hale — cont. 

,   Margaret   (de   Neubiggyng) 

wife  of  Thomas  de,  35,  36. 
,  Richard  son  of  Thomas  de, 

35,  36. 

,  Thomas  de,  36. 

Cf.  Halle. 

Hales,  Agnes  (de  Carlel)  daughter  of 

John  de,  85. 

,  John  de,  woodmonger,  85. 

Halfhyde,  co.  Dorset,  164. 
Hallaton,  Hahighton,  co.  Leicester, 

manor  of,  411. 
Halle,  Alice  de,  313. 

,  John  atte.  82,  83. 

,  Richard,  183. 

,  Thomas  atte,  269. 

,  Walter  atte,  of  Adderbury, 

coroner  for  co.  Oxford,  229. 

Cf.  Hale. 

Halsham,  East  [in  Halsham]  ?  Est- 

walsham,  co.  York,  245. 
Halstead,     Halsted,     Halstede,     co. 

Essex,  43,  433. 

,  deed  dated  at,  43. 

Haltemprice,       Hautemprise       [co. 

York],  Robert  prior  of,  465. 
Halughton.    See  Hallaton. 
Halughton,  Geoffrey  de,  burgess  of 

Warwick,  274. 
Ham,  East,  Esthamme,  [co.  Essex], 

53,  500. 
,     West,     Westhamme,     co. 

Essex,  92,  500. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  deed  dated  at,  92. 

Hamble,    Hamelhoke    [co.    Hants], 

bailiffs,  customers  etc.  of,  137. 
Hambledon,  Hameldon  [co.  Hants], 

406. 
Hame,  Richard,  398. 
Hamelac,  Hamelak.    See  Helmsley. 
Hamelcote.    See  Kimcote  ? 
Hameldene,  Thomas  de,  parson  of 

Potter  Han  worth,  331. 

Cf.  Hamuldon. 

Hameldon.    See  Hambledon. 
Hamelhamstede.     See  Hemel  Hemp- 
stead. 
Hamelhoke.    See  Hamble. 
Hamelton.    Sec  Hamilton. 
Hamely,  Joan  wife  of  John,  226. 

,  John,  226. 

Hames,   Hammes   castle   [dep.   Pas- 
de-Calais],  9. 
Hamilton,    Hamelton    [in    Barkby], 

CO.  I^eicester,  427. 
Hammes.     See  Hames. 
Hammynghurst,  John,   373. 
Hamond,  William,  312,  399. 
Hamondson,  Thomas,  neif,  286. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


573 


Hampnett,  Hamptonet,  co.  Glou- 
cester, manor  of,  422. 

,  Hamptonnet,  co.  Sussex,  69. 

Hampstoad,  Hampstodo  [co.  Middle- 
sex], 184. 

Marshall,    Hampstod   Marc- 

schal  [co.  Berks],  manor  of, 
111. 

Norris,  co.  Berks,    Colruggo 

in,  40. 

Hamptenet.    See  Hampnett. 

Hampthull.    See  Ampthill. 

Hampton,  Richard  de,  71. 

,  William  de,  bailiff  of  Hythe, 

390. 

Hamptonnet.    See  Hampnett. 

Hamslape.    See  Hanslope. 

Hamuldon,  John  de,  vicar  of  Croy- 
don, 401. 

Cf   Hameldene. 

Hanamstede,  Hanampstede,  Thomas 
de,  500. 

,    William    de,    pepperer,    of 

London,   92. 

Hancepe,  Thomas,  208. 

handball,  prohibition  of,  181. 

Hanekjm,  John,   171. 

,  ....  son  of  James,  478. 

Cf.  Haukyn. 

Hanemere.    See  Hanmer. 

Hangre.    See  Angre. 

Han  ham,  John  de,  draper  of  Lon- 
don, 315. 

,  Richard,  farmer  of  subsidy, 

484. 

Hankerton,  Hankynton  [co.  Wilts], 
309. 

,  deed  dated  at,  369. 

,  Inmede  in,  369. 

Hankynton,  John  de,  369. 

Cf.  Haukynton. 

Hartley,  William  de,  king's  clerk,  29. 

Cf.  Haulay. 

Hanmer,  Hanemere,  David  de,  237, 
296. 

Hanney,  Hannej'e,  co.  Berks,  19. 

,      East,      Esthanneye,      co. 

Berks,  19,  161. 

Hanred,  William,  of  Pisford,  279. 

Hanslope,  Hamslape  [co.  Bucking- 
ham], 54. 

Hanwood,  Great,  Churchehanewode 
[CO.  Salop],  367. 

Hanworth.    See  Potter  Hanworth. 

Hapesburgh.    See  Happisburgh. 

Happesburgh,  Williain  de,  451. 

Happisburgh,  Hapesburgh,  Happes- 
burgh, Haselburgh,  Hasil- 
biirgh,  CO.  Norfolk,  manor  of, 
450. 


Harald,  John,  28. 

,  William,  28. 

Haraklesewyas.     See  Evvias  Harold. 
Harbergh.     See  Haverbergh. 
Harberton,   Hurberton,    Hnrburton, 

CO.   Devon,    knights'   fees   in, 

364. 

manor  of,  364,  436. 

Harbridge,  Hardebrigge,  co.  South- 
ampton, 62,  389. 
Harcla,  Hercla,  Andrew  de,  adherent 

of  the  Scots,   3,  4,   38,  105. 
Hardebrigge.    *See  Harbridge. 
Harden,  Richard,  383. 
Hardemede.     See  Hardmead. 
Hardleston.    See  Harston. 
Hardmead,    Hardemede    [co.  Buck- 
ingham], 99,  152. 
Hardwick,    Herdewyk    [in   Audley], 

CO.    Oxford,    jnanor   of,  214. 
Hardyng,  Ankitill,   170. 
Hare,  Robert,   162. 
Harecourt,  Williain,  489. 
Harefield,   Herfeld   [co.   Middlesex], 

35. 
Harewell,  John  de,  bishop  of  Bath 

and  Wells,  454. 
Harewood,    Harewode    [co.    York], 

lord  of.    See  Insula,  John  de. 

,  manor  of,  131. 

,  Alwoodley  in,  17. 

Harkstead,  Herkestede,  co.  Suffolk, 

fee  in,  497. 
Harlaxton,   Herlaston,   co.    Lincoln, 

manor  of,  420. 
Harleston.   See  Harston. 
Harleston,  Roger  de,  493. 

,  WiUiam  de,  48. 

Harlestone,   co.   Northampton,    346. 
Harleye,  John  de,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Worcester,  273. 

,  Robert  de,  of  Salop,  42. 

Cf.  Herle. 

Harlington,  Herdyngton,  co.  Middle- 
sex. 397,  398,'  399. 
Harlow,   Herlawe  [co.   Essex],    173, 

383. 

,  fees  in,  195. 

Harlyng,   Harlyngg,   John   de,    377, 

378. 
,   Margery  wife   of   John   de, 

377,  378. 
Harnham,  John,  44. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  coroner  for  Wilts,  346. 

Harpour,  Elizabeth  wife  of  John  son 

of  Hugh  le,  428. 
,  John  son  of  Hugh  le,  427, 

428. 
,  .  .  .  .  son  of  John  son  of  Hugh 

le,  427. 


574 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Harring\\'orth,      Haryngworth      [co. 

Northampton],  326,  461. 
Harrold,  co.  Bedford,  bridge  at,  357. 
Harston,      Hardleston,      co.      Cam- 
bridge, manor  of,  343. 
,  Harleston  [in  Brixham],  co. 

Devon,  manor  of,  74,  180,  266. 
Hartburn,       co.       Northiomberland, 

Longwitton,  Longwotton    in, 

147. 
Hartest,     Hertherst     [co.     SufTolk], 

m.anor  of,  2. 
,     reeve  of.         See      Pompy, 

Richard. 
Hartherugge,  Thomas,    of    Marden, 

209. 
Hartlepool,     Hertelpole,     Hertilpole 

[CO.  York],  bailiffs  of,  91,  137. 

,    customers   etc.    of,    137. 

,  customs  in  port  of,  356. 

Harville,  John,  87. 
Harwedon,  John,  166,  173. 
Harwich,    Herewic,    Herewich    [co. 

Essex],  bailiffs,  customers  etc. 

of,  91,  136,  140,  370. 
Haryngworth.    See  Harringworth. 
Hasard,  William.  369. 
Haselbere.     See  Haselbixry. 
Haselburgh,  Hasilburgh.     See  Hap- 

pisburgh. 
Haselbury,  Haselbere,  co.  Somerset, 

manor  of,  132,  414. 
Haselden,  Hasilden,  Thomas  de,  of 

Wakefield,   83. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Yorkshire,  51. 

Hastang.    See  Hastings. 
Hasteclaydon.     See  Claydon,  East. 
Hasthorp.     See  Asthorp. 
Hastings,     Hasty^ges,     Hastyngges 

[co.    Sussex],    bailiffs   of,    91, 

137. 

,  customers  etc.  of.  137. 

Hastings,  Hastang,  Hastyng',  Hast- 

ynges,    Hastyngs,    Agnes   (de 

Mortuo   Mari)   wife   of    Law- 
rence de,   earl   of   Pembroke, 

27,  28,  127,  213,  438,  443,  444, 

447. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  lady  of  Over  Went  and 

Abergavenny ,   371. 
,  Bartholomew  son  of  Thomas 

de,  447. 

,  Hugh  de,  knight,  489. 

,  John  de,  324,  325,  496. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  father  of  Lawrence  de, 

452. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  son  of  John  de,  174. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  son  of  lJa^^Tence  de, 

earl  of   Pembroke,   438,   443, 

444,  447,  452. 


Hastings — cont. 

,     Juliana     de,     countess     of 

Hvmtingdon,    127,    184,    438, 
443,  444,  447,  454. 
,  Lawrence  de,  earl  of  Pem- 
broke, 28,  319. 

,  Maud  wife  of  John  de,  325. 

,  Ralph  de,  148,  149,  224. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Leicester,   168. 

,  Thomas  de,  447. 

Hastthorp.    See  Asthorp. 

Hasty,  Henry,  of  Lincolnshire,  63. 

John,  outlaw,  1 7. 

Cf.  Asty. 

Hastyng',    Hastynges,    Hastyngges, 

Hastyngs.    See  Hastings. 
Hatcham,   Hachesham   [in   Caniber- 

well],   CO.   Surrey,   manor  of, 

234. 
,  manor  of  Coldherbergh  in, 

234. 
Hatch     Beauchamp,     Hacche,     co. 

Somerset,  manor  of,  435. 
Hatche.    See  Hacche. 
Hatcliffe,   Hadclif,   Hatclyff,  Hatte- 

clif,  CO.  Lincoln,  87,    88,    436, 

437. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  87,  88. 

....;.,  Gonerby  in,  87,  88. 
Hatclyf.    See  Hatteclif. 
Hatclyff.    See  Hatcliffe. 
Hatfeld,  John  de,  307. 

,  .....  citizen  of  London,  265. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  merchant  of  Alniayn, 

363. 
,  Robert,  Robert  de,  170,  205, 

459,  500. 
,  Thomas  de,  bishop  of  Dur- 
ham, 89,  210,  371,  377,  404, 

418,  468. 

,  William  de,  61. 

Hatfield,  Hatfeld,  Bishops  Hatfeld, 

CO.  Hertford,  chancery  at,  72, 

170,   190. 
Peverel,     Hatfeld    Peverel, 

Peverell  [co.  Essex],  197,  388. 
,    Clerkestenement    in, 

197. 

,  manor  of,  259,  260. 

Hatheleseyo,     Richard,     parson     of 

Brinkworth,  174. 
Hatherop,  Hacthorp,  Hakthorp,   co. 

Gloucester,  230. 

,  manor  of,  230. 

Hatherwyk     in     Redesdale.  See 

Heatherwick. 
Hatteclif.    See  Hatcliffe. 
Hatteclif,    Hadclif,    Hatclyf,    Alan, 

87,  88. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


575 


Hatteclif — cont. 

John  de,  437. 

son  of  Poter  de,  87. 

,  Mariot  wifo  of  John  sou  of 

Peter  de,  87,  88. 

Nicholas,  87,  88. 

,  Wilham  son  of  John  son  of 

Peter  de,  87. 
Hattere,  Peter,  clerk,  267. 
Hatton,  Jolin,  of  London,  478. 
,    Wilham    do,    escheator    in 

Sussex,  226. 
Hauberk,  Lawrence,  43,  295. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  l^eicestershire,  274. 

,  Wilham,  43,  359. 

Haudlo.    See  Hadlow. 

Haudlo,  Ahce  wifo  of    Edniund    de, 

230. 
Edmund  son  of  Richard  de, 

229. 
,     Elizabeth     (de     la     Pole) 

daughter  of  Richard  de,  229. 
,  Isabel  wife  of  Richard  de, 

229. 

,  John  de,  494. 

,  Richard  de,  229. 

Hauekerugge.    See  Hawkeridge. 
Haugh,  Little,  Littlehawe  [in  Thurs- 
ton],  CO.    Suffolk,   manor   of, 

436. 
Haukeden,    John    de,    poulterer,    of 

London,  24. 
Haukesfold,  William  de,  375. 
Haukewell.    See  Hawk  well. 
Haukyn,  John,  289. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  the  king's  serjeant  at 

arms,  30,  33,  144,  320. 

Cf.  Hanekyn. 

Haxikynton,  Nigel  de,  172. 

Cf.  Hanky nton. 

Haulay,    Haule,    Hauley,    A¥illiam, 

William    de,    knight    of    the 

shire  of  Lincoln,  273. 
,  .....  sheriff  of  I^incolnshire, 

80,  81,  253,  254. 
,    ....     son  of  William,   379, 

382,  388. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the  elder,  274. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the  younger,  274.  296. 

Cf.  Hanley. 

Haulghton,    Margaret    daughter    of 

Nicholas  de,  knight,  394. 
,  William  de,  of  Staffordshire, 

393,  394. 
Haunsard,  Robert  de,  knight,  2G8. 
Hautboys.   See  Haweboys. 
Hautemprise.    See  Haltemprice. 
Havenere,  Thomas,  keeper  of  ports 

and  passages  in  Cornwall,  L37, 

370. 


Haverah,    Haywra   in    Knaresburgh 

forest   fco.    York],    repair   of 

fortalice  of,  15. 
Haverbergli,  Harbcrgli,  Richard  de, 

464. 

,  of  Desborough,  366. 

Haverhill  [cos.   Suffolk  and  Essex], 

rector  of.     See  Hilton,  John 

de. 
Haverholm,  Haversholme  priory  [co. 

Lincoln],  nun  of.     Sec  Ever- 

yngham,    Alice    daughter    of 

John  de. 
Havering  atte   Bower,   atte   Bouro, 

CO.  Essex,  464. 
,  Bretons,  Bretonnesland   in, 

464. 
,  letters  close  dated  at,  232, 

346,  347. 
Haverlond,  Richard,  merchant,  26. 

,  Richard  de,  of  Ipswich,  104. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  searcher  of  forfeitures, 

12. 
Haversholme.    See  Haverholm. 
Haveryng,     John    de,     verderer    of 

Waltham  forest,  247. 
,  Richard  de,  knight,  187,  377, 

482. 

, , ,  of  Wilts,  274. 

Haveryng  atte  Boure,  John  de,  of 

Essex,  209. 
Havcryngton,     Henry     de,     knight, 

195. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  tlie  shire  of 

Nortliumberland,    273. 

,  John  de,  of  Farleton,  145. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  tenant  in  chief,  42. 

,  Nicliolas  son  of  John  de,  145. 

,  Robert  de,  of  Fleet,  277. 

Hawe,    John,     of    Puddletrenthide, 

481,  482. 
,  Lettice  wife  of  William  de, 

471. 

,  Wilham,  William  de,  471. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Covenham,  405. 

Haweboys,  Hautboys,  Adam,  parson 

of  Cockfield,  46,  184,  196. 
Hawkeden,    co.    Suffolk,    Thurston, 

Thurstonton  in,  469. 
Hawkeridge,  Hauekerugge  [in  West- 

bmy],  CO.  Wilts,  456,  458. 
hawks,  49,  139. 

,  kinds  of,  140. 

Hawkwell,  Haukewell  [in  Stamford- 
ham],    CO.     Northumberland, 

357. 
Haxey,  co.  Lincoln,  Westwoodside, 

Westwode  in,  245. 
Hay,    Agnes   wife    of    John    del,    of 

Woodford,   111. 


576 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Hay — cont. 

,  John,  281. 

,  . .  .  . ,  of  Sutton  Bassett,  46. 

,  John  de  la,  164,  207. 

, ,  knight,  394. 

Haya,  William  del,  496. 

haybote.    See  housebote. 

Haydon  [in  Rodbourne  Cheney,  co. 
Wilts],  fee  in,  498. 

Hayfeld.    See  Bayfield. 

Haym,  Hayn,  Anselin,  269. 

,  Stephen,  406,  486. 

,  Wilham,  269. 

C/.  Heyn. 

Hayt,  Simon,  of  Bassingbourn,  69. 

Hayteleye,  Gregory  atto,  162. 

Hayward,  Hey  ward,  John  brother  of 
WiUiam,  293. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  Sherman,  209. 

,  William,  388. 

, ,  of  Maldon,  293. 

Haywode,  Haiwode,  Walter,  Walter 
de,  44,  45,  50,  51,  406,  485, 
486. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Southampton,  168,  481. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Wilts,  486. 

Haywra.    See  Haverah. 

Headington,  Hadjmgton,  Hedyndon, 
Hedyngdon,  Hedyngton,  co. 
Oxford,  230. 

,  manor  of,  230. 

Heatherwick,  Hatherwj'k  in  Redes- 
dale,  CO.  Northumberland, 
Ladiland   in,    440. 

Hebregge.    See  Heybridge. 

Hedelham,  Lucy  wife  of  Robert  de, 
423. 

,  Robert  de,  243. 

Hedereseyt,  William  de,  497. 

Hedge  Court,  Heggecourt  [in  God- 
stone  and  Home,  co.  Surrey], 
deeds  dated  at,  188. 

,  manor  of,  188. 

Hedingham,  Castle,  Castle  Heng- 
ham,  CO.  Essex,  433. 

,     Sible,      Hengham      Sibile, 

Sibille,  Sible  Hengham,  co. 
Essex,  270,  433. 

,  .  .  .  .,  Greys  manor  in,  171. 

Hedirsete.    See  Hethersett. 

Hedon,  co.  York,  192,  315. 

Hedyndon,  Hedyngdon.  See  Head- 
ington. 

Hedyngham,  John,  188. 

Hedyngton.    See  Headington. 

Heeton.    See  Heton. 

HefdynghuU.    See  Hundenhall. 

Hegelond  [in  Pevensey],  co.  Sussex, 
178. 


Heggecourt.    See  Hedge  Court. 

Hegham,  Cold.    See  Cold  Higham. 

Hegham,  Henry  de,  400. 

,  Hugh  de,  burgess  of  North- 
ampton, 169. 

Cf.  Heygham. 

Heghclere,  Hegh  Clere.  See  High- 
clere. 

Heighington  [co.  Durham],  Wal- 
worth in,  268. 

Heighley,  Heleghe,  Heley  [parish  of 
Audley,  co.  Stafford],  lord  of. 
See  Audeleye,  James. 

Heighworth.    See  Highworth. 

Heile.    See  Heyle. 

Heir.    See  Fitz  Heir. 

Helde,  Henry  atte,  178,  188,  271. 

,  Isabel  atte,  48. 

Helecombe  Regis.  ^ee  Holcombo 
Rogus. 

Heleghe,  Heley.    See  Heighley. 

Helgeye.    See  Hilgay. 

Helion,  Helyon,  Henry,  of  Bump- 
stead  Hehon,  114,  268. 

Helle,  Agnes,  217. 

Hellingly,  Hellyngleye,  co.  Sussex, 
deeds  dated  at,  183. 

Helmerton,    See  Hillmarton. 

Helmsley,  Hamelac,  Hamelak  [co. 
York],  40,  129,  326,  430, 
482. 

Helpeston,  Thomas  de,  sheriff  of 
Essex  and  Hertfordshire,  326. 

Helyon.    See  Helion. 

Hemel  Hempstead,  Hamelhamstede, 
Hemelhamstedo,  co.  Hertford, 
50,  207. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  207. 

Hemenhale.    See  Hempnall. 

Hemenhale,  Ralph  de,  26. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Suffolk,  169,  480. 

Hemery,  John,  289. 

Hemeweye  in  Farnham,  co.  Surrey, 
504. 

Hemingby,  Hemmyngesby  [co.  Lin- 
coln], parson  of.  See  Kelby, 
Robert. 

Hemington,  co.  Northampton, 
manor  of,  77. 

Hemingtone,  Hemyngtone,  Richard 
son  of  Richard  de,  77. 

,   Thomas  de,   of  Bottisham, 

77. 

Hemmyng,  William,  parson  of 
Castle  Combe,  501. 

Hemmyngesby.    See  Hemingby. 

hemp,  390. 

Hempnall,  Hemenhale  [co.  Norfolk], 
deed  dated  at,  469. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


577 


Hempstead,    Hempstedo    by    Holt, 

Hemsted,  co.  Norfolk,  213. 

,  fee  in,  497. 

See  Hemel  Hempstead. 

Hemvngtone.    See  Hemingtono. 
Henand,  John,  502,  503,  504. 
Henden  [in    Sundridge],    co.    Kent, 

deeds  dated  at,  178,  19G,  198. 
Henden,  John  de,  81. 
Hengham.     See  Hedingham. 
by,     upon    Tainese.        See 

Higham. 
Hengham,  Robert,  312. 
Henhyrst,  Thomas,  491. 
Henle,  Henlee,  John  de,  463,  495, 
Henley   upon  Thames,   Henle  upon 

Thames  [co.  Oxford],  487. 

,  deed  dated  at,  487. 

Henry   I,    butler   of.       See    Albini, 

William  de. 
Henry  III,  charters  of,  18,  39. 

,  confirmation  by,  446. 

Henry  II,  king  of  Castile,  102,  103, 

255. 
Henry  duke  of  Lancaster,  239,  250, 

328. 
Henry,  Thomas  son  of,  287. 
Henrys,  John,  seamen  and  burgess 

of  Brabant,  130. 
Henstridge,  Henstrugge,  co.  Somer- 
set, manor  of,  112,  113. 
Hent,   John,   burgess  of  Dunstable, 

302. 
Henton.    See  Hinton. 
Henton,  William  de,  174,  184. 

Cf.  Hinton. 

Henxteworth,  John  de,  291,  498. 
Hepenshagh.     See  Openshaw. 
Hephale.     See  Hepple. 
Heppewell.     See  Ipewell. 
Heppeworth,  Stephen  de,  parson  of 

Isfield,  264. 
Hepple,   Hephale   [parish   of   Roth- 
bury],    CO.    Northumberland, 

manor  of,  147. 
Hepworth  [co.  Suffolk],  279. 

,  advowson  of,  279. 

Herbury,  Henry,  458. 
Hercla.   See  Harcla. 
Herdenehed,  Henry,  162. 
Herdew'yk.   See  Hardwick. 
Herdwyk,  John  de,  of  Oxfordshire, 

401. 
Herdyngton.    See  Harlington. 
Hereford,  287,  294. 
,   bishop  of.      See  Charleton, 

Lewis  de. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  lodging  of,  in  London, 

198,  200. 
, ,  bishopric  of,  23. 


Hereford — cont. 

citizens    of,    summoned    to 

parliament,   274. 

,  Butchers  Row,  Fleahouwer- 

usrowe  in,   287. 

,  Saymesplaco  in,  287. 

Hereford,  Herfford,  earl  of.  See 
Bohun,  Humpiu'cy  de. 

Hereford,  county  of,  173. 

,  commons  of,  335. 

,  coroners  in,  number  of,  335. 

,  escheators  in.  See  Lutteleye, 

Philip  de  ;  Prestwode,  Henry 
de ;  Saundres,  Thomas,  of 
Neubold. 

,  justices  in,  191. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  168, 

273,  480. 

sheriff  of,  89,  129,  145,  335. 

,  subsidy  in,  71,  89,  281. 

Hereward.     See  Her  ward. 

Herewic,  Herewich.     See  Harwich. 

Herfeld.    See  Harefield. 

Herfford.    See  Hereford. 

Herford,  James  de,  274. 

,  Walter  de,  scholar  of  Cam- 
bridge, books  for  use  of,  409. 

Herkestede.    See  Harkstead. 

Herlaston.    See  Harlaxton. 

Herlawe.    See  Harlow. 

Herlawe,  Walter  de,  girdler  of  I^on- 
don,   173. 

Herle,  Elizabeth  (Wyard)  wife  of 
John  de,   152. 

, wife  of  Robert  de,  321. 

,  John  de,  152. 

,  Robert  de,  148,  149,  321. 

,     .  .  .  . ,    constable    of    Dover 

castle  and  warden  of  the 
Cinque  Ports,  33,  49. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  steward  of  lands  and 

controller  of  households  of  the 
king's  sons,  14. 

the  king'swidmiral,  156, 

224. 

Cf.  Harleye. 

Hermer,  Giles,  bvu"gess  of  Bedford. 
274. 

Hermitage  Castle,  Ermitage,  Ermy- 
tage  [Roxburghshire],  Scot- 
land, castle  and  manor  of,  31, 
96,  416. 

Hermyn,  Thomas,    188. 

Hernesheved.     See  Heronshead. 

Heron,  Heroun,  John,  esquire, 
prisoner,  85. 

, ,  knight,  265,  473. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  prisoner,  84,  150. 

,     Roger,     knight,     prisoner, 

85. 

E   37 


578 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Heron,  Roger — cont. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  son  of  William,  knight, 

292. 

,  Thomas,  of  London,  484. 

,  William,  knight,    194,    199, 

288. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Northumber- 
land, 292. 

,   .  .  .  . ,   .  .  .  . ,  prisoner,  84. 

Heronshead,         Hernesheved        [in 

Leigh],  CO.  Surrey,  manor  of, 

97,  98. 
Heroun.    See  Heron. 
Herre,  John,  209. 
herring.     See  fish. 
Herst.     See  Hirst. 
Hert,  John,  archprieet  of  Welcombe, 

393. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  verderer  in  Waltham 

forest,  229. 

,  Richard,  503. 

Hertelpole.    See  Hartlepool. 
Hertesho.   See  Hertishobury. 
Hertford  [co.  Hertford],  market  at, 

460. 
Hertford,  comity  of,  69,  73,  186,  263, 

298,  400. 
,  escheator  in.  See  Wolfreton, 

Roger  de. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  1 69, 

273   481 
,  sheriff  of,  48,  88,  291,  460, 

478.    See  also  Boys,  Guy  de  ; 

Helpeston,  Thomas  de. 

,  subsidy  in,  70,  281,  484. 

Hertham,  Martin  de,  462. 

Hertherst.    See  Hartest. 

Herthill,     Herthull,      Richard      de, 

knight  of  the  shire  of  War- 
wick, 273,  480. 
Hertilpole.    See  Hartlepool. 
Hertishobury,    Hertesho    [in    Farn- 

ham],  CO.  Essex,  306. 
Hertley,  Robert,  siu"veyor  of  works 

at  Windsor,  412. 
Hertwell,     Richard    de,    parson    of 

West  Horsley,  443,  464. 
Hertyngdon,  Adam  de,  clerk  of  the 

king's  works  at  Windsor,  412. 
Hervy,  Reynold,  60. 
,     Thomas,      master     of     la 

James  of  Lynne,  153. 

William,  240,  474. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  alnager  in  London  and 

Middlesex,   427. 
Herward,  Hereward,  Ellis,  394. 
,  Henry,   farmer    of   subsidy, 

281. 

,  Robert,  170. 

Herwelam,  Richard  de,  297, 


Heryng,  Nicholas,  206. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Surrey,  453. 

Heselerton.  See  Heslarton. 
Hesell,  Hesille.  See  Hessle. 
Heslarton,  Heselerton,  Alice  wife  of 

Thomas  de,  328. 
,  Euf emia  wife  of  Walter  de, 

417. 
,  Eustachia  (de  Percy)  wife  of 

Walter  de,  340. 

,  John  de,  knight,  328. 

,    Simon   de,   coroner  for  co. 

York,  for  the  East  Riding  of 

Yorkshire,  217,  362,  431. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

York,  169,  273. 

,  Thomas  de,  328. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  of  Lowthorpe,  296. 

,  Walter  de,  knight,  417,  425. 

,  ....  son  of  John  de,  knight, 

328. 
, son  of  Walter  de,  328, 

340. 
Hessay,  Thomas,  269. 
Hessle,  Hesell,  Hesille,  co.  York,  245. 
Heth.     See  Hythe. 
Hethe,  Thomas  de,  knight,  313,  314. 

,  William  atte,  396. 

Hethersett,   Hedirsete,   co.   Norfolk, 

manor  of,  228. 
,   parson  of.      See  Keteryng- 

ham,  William  de. 
Heton,  CO.  Northumberland,  manor 

of,   357. 
Heton,  Heeton,  Alan  de,  349. 
,     . .  .  . ,    keeper    of    Berwick 

upon  Tweed,  224. 
,    ,  knight,  57,   194,   195, 

274,  292. 
,    .  .  .  . ,  kniaht  of  the  shire  of 

Northvmiberland,  169,  480. 
,    Joan   wife   of   Thomas   de, 

152,   156. 
Hevedynghull.     See  Himdenhall. 
Hevenyngham,  John  de,  knight,  461, 

463. 
Hexham,  Thomas  de,  160,  171. 
Heybridge,     Hebregge,     co.     Essex, 

197. 
Heyford,  co.  Northampton,  346. 

,  manor  of,  434. 

Heyford,  Joan  daughter  of  William 

de,  68. 
Heygham,  Richard  de,  419. 

Cf.  Hegham. 

Heyle,  Heile,  Richard  de,  of  Chelsea, 

385,  386. 
Heyne,  John,  391. 

,....,  parson  of  Birdham,467. 

, , Cf.  Haym, 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


579 


Hcyrodo,  Adam,  of  Walton,  HSIi. 
Heyward.    See  Hayward. 
Hichj'ngham,  William,  l<Tiight,   19G. 

Hicklinfr,   HiUely'iS'  l^Tyk<'ly""f^'  ^^• 

Norfolk,  \\ved  dated  at,  474. 

,  Notherlmll  in,  474. 

Hidorsliam.    See  Hixham  ? 
hides,  8,  328,  483. 

,  custom  on,  335. 

Hidon,  Hydon,  Jolm,  191. 

,  Richard,  161. 

Higgesloyo,  John  de,  of  Salop,  473. 
Higham,       Hcngham       by,       upon 

Tamese,  co.  Kent,  foe  in,  495. 

Cold.      See  Cold  Higliam. 

Highclere,  Clere  Episcopi,Heghclere, 

Hegli      Clere,      High     Clere, 

CO.  Hants,  chancery  at,  480. 

,  deed  dated  at,  486. 

,  letters  close  dated  at,438,486. 

jiarson  of.      See   Laurence, 

John. 
Highwortli,   Heighworth,   co.   Wilts, 

deed  dated  at,  166. 
,     Fresden,     Fershesdon     in, 

165,   166. 
Hikelj-ng.    See  Hickling. 
Hikkebrid.  Ralph,  of  Cranford,  162. 
Hilfield,  Hulselde  [co.  Dorset],   164. 
Hilgay,  Helgeye  [co.  Norfolk],  385. 
Hilierd.    See  Hillyerd. 
Hill,  Gilbert  del,  38. 
William  of  the,  of  Driffield, 

432. 
Hillingdon,    Hylyndon,    co.    Middle- 
sex,  35. 
Hillmarton,   Helmerton   [co.   Wilts], 

manor  of,  502. 
Hillyerd,  Hilierd,  John,  274. 

,  William,  428. 

Hilperton,   Hulprynton   [co.   Wilts], 

198. 
Hiltoft,  Jolm,  John  de,  54,  269. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  sheriff  of  London,  1 70, 

269. 
Hilton,  Hulton  [in  Wolverhampton, 

CO.  Stafford],  205,  289. 
Hilton,  Hylton,  John  de,  clerk,  165. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  king's  clerk,  29. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    rector   of   Haverhill, 

461. 
,  Maud  (de  Emeldon)  wife  of 

Alexander    de,    knight,    234, 

332. 
Hintlesham,    HjTitlesham,    co.   Suf- 
folk, manor  of,   27. 
Hinton,     Henton    by    Derham     [in 

Dirham],  co.  Gloucester,  330. 
,   Broad,   Henton,   ro.   Wilts, 

manor  of,  82, 


Hinton,   Hynton,  Thomas  do,    171, 

463.' 

Cf.  Henton. 

Hinxton,  Hyngston,  co.  Cambridge, 

350.  "^ 
Hirst,   Herst,    Hurst,   Joan   wife   of 

Richard,   183. 

,  Jolm  do,  clerk,  132. 

,  Richard,  178,  183,  196. 

,  William,  William  atte,  484, 

485. 
Hirstlyngstone.     See  Hurstingston. 
Hisbeers,    Hisbere    [near    Nerochc], 

CO.  Somerset,  47. 
Hitchin,  Hychen,  co.  Herts,  23. 
Hiwyschamflour.    See  Huish  Champ- 

fiower. 
Hixham     [in     Pelham     Furneaux]  ? 

Hidersham,  Thiderisliam,   co. 

Hertford,  manor  of,  318,  451. 
Hobbes,  Alan,  230. 
,   William,   burgess    rf    Dun- 
stable, 302. 
Hobeldod,  Adam,  of  Swavesey,  61. 
Hockele,  William  de,  depvity  coroner 

for  London,  362. 
Hode,  John,  274. 

, ,  of  Fleet,  277. 

Hcdebouile,  John,   466. 

Hody,    Richard,    escheator    in    co. 

Devon,   359. 
Hoge  Norton.    See  Hook  Norton. 
Hoggeshagh,  Edmund  de,  7. 
Hoghton,    Great.       See    Houghton, 

Long. 
Hoghton,  Adam  de,  128. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Lancaster,    169. 

,  John,  merchant,  255. 

,  William,  270,  393. 

, de,  78,  302. 

Cf.  Houghton. 

Hoke.   See  Hook. 

Hokkele.    See  Oakley. 

Hokynton.    See  Oakington. 

Holand.    See  Holland. 

Holand,     Holland,     Joan     wife     of 

Thomas  de,  454. 

,  Maud  de,  256. 

,  Robert  de,  knight,  472. 

,  ....  son  of  Maud  de,  256. 

,  Thomas  de,  454. 

Holbeach,    Holbeche,    co.     Lincoln, 

277. 
Holbeche,  John  de,  fuller,  427. 
,   Maud  wife   of  William  de, 

354,  355. 

,  Simon  son  of  Martin  de,  277. 

,  Thomas  de,  354,  355. 

,  Wilham  de,  354, 


580 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Holborn.  See     London,      places 

named. 
Holcombe,    Opholcounibe   [in   New- 

ington,     CO.     Oxford],     deed 

dated  at,  166. 

,  manor  of,  166. 

Rogus,     Helecombe     Regis 

[co.  Devon],  69. 
Holcot,  Hollecott',  co.  Northampton, 

fee  in,  497. 
Holden,  William,  69. 
Holderness,  co.  York,  12. 
,  escheator  in.     See  Wythor- 

nwyk,  Thomas  de. 
steward  and  bailiffs  of,  137, 

370. 

,  wapentake  of,  101. 

Holdyche,  Robert,  34. 

Hole,  Gregory  atte,  272. 

Hole    (farm)    [in    Faulkbourn],    the 

Holehalle  in  Fairstede,  Notle, 

Terlyng,  Wytham  and  Falk- 

burne,  co.  Essex,  294. 
Holegh  CO.  Surrey,  manor  of,  97,  98. 
Holem.    See  Hollym. 
Holeweye,    Robert,    coroner    of    co. 

Warwick,   228. 
Holilond.    See  Holylond. 
Holland,  Holand,  amity  with,  16. 

,  boat  of,  402. 

,  eels  from,  16. 

Holland.    See  Holand. 
Hollecott'.     See  Holcot. 
HoUington,    Holyngton    [parish    of 

Longford],  co.  Derby,   18. 
Hollvm,  Holem,  co.  York,  315. 
Holt,  CO.  Norfolk,  fee  in,  497. 
Holt  wood,   le   Holt,   in  Wostbury, 

CO.  Wilts,  457. 
Holtale.    See  Howtell. 
Holtale,  Thomas  de,  199. 
,   ....   son  of  Roger  de,   194, 

195. 

,  Walter  son  of  Adam  de,  195. 

Holtby,  Holteby,  co.  York,  421. 
Holte,  John  de,  64,  270. 

,  Roger  son  of  John  de,  270. 

Holteby.    See  Holtby. 
Holweli,  Henry,  73. 

,  Isabel  wife  of  Henry,  73. 

Holylond,    Holilond,    Thomas    atte, 

de,  178. 
Holyngton.    See  HoUington. 
homsoken,  304. 
Honeby.    See  Humby. 
honey,  9. 

Honingham,    Hunygham    [co.    Nor- 
folk], church  of,  47,  67. 
Honiton,    co.    Devon,    Battcshorne, 

Bathesthorne  in,  359. 


Honyngton,  Christiana,  312. 
Honyspill.    See  Huntspill. 
Hoo.    See  Hoo  Down,  Hooe. 
Hoo,  Alice  (de  Sancto  Omero)  wife 

of  William  de,  221,  313,  410. 

,  John  de,  461. 

,  Stephen  de,  373. 

,  Thomas  atte,  knight,  49. 

,    ....    de,    guardian    of   the 

peace  and  justice  of  oyer  and 

teiminer  in  Bedfordshire,  467. 
,  William  de,  knight,  221,  313, 

410. 
,    .  .  .  . ,    son   of   Thomas   de, 

knight,  365. 
Hood,  Robert,  162. 
Hoo  Down,  Hoo  [parish  of  Brixham, 

CO.  Devon],  163. 
Hooe,  Hoo,  CO.  Sussex,  183. 
Hook,  Hoke  [South  Holland],  458. 

,  ship  of,  458. 

Hook    Norton,    Hoge    Norton,    co. 

Oxford,  496. 
Hope,  Thomas  de,  289,  370. 

, of  Kent,  368,  369. 

Hord,  Richard,  of  Newton,  367. 
Hore,  Thomas,  fisher,  of  London,  58. 
Horecastel,  John  de,  clerk,  175. 
Horeworth,  Ellen  de,  105. 

,  John  de,  105. 

Horewyk,  William,  chaplain,  474. 
Horl,  Robert,  462,  463. 
Horley,  Horle  [co.  Surrey],  188,  271. 
Hornby,    Horneby    [in   Melling,    co. 

Lancaster],  66,  358,  361,  383, 

471. 
Hornchurch  [co.  Essex],  209. 

,  keeper  of  church  of,  209. 

Horndon      [co.      Essex],     168,     197, 

201. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  197. 

,  East,  Esthorndon,  co.  Essex, 

205. 
Home  [co.  Surrey],  188,  271. 
Home,     Alice    de    Hoton    wife    of 

James  atte,  393. 
,  James  atte,  brewer  of  Lon- 
don, 393. 
,  Richard  son  of  John  de,  of 

Appledore,   370. 
,   William,   WUliam   de,    188, 

289,  368,  369. 
,     .  .  .  . ,    of    Appledore,    176, 

370. 
Horneby.     See  Hornby. 
Horneby,  Robert  de,  92. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  clerk,  69. 

Hornsea  Beck,  Hornsebek  [in  Horn- 
sea— stibmerged],     co.    York, 

295. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


581 


Horsocroft,  William,  484. 

, citizen  of  London,  281. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    skinner   of    London, 

488. 
Horsoheath,     Horseth,     co.      Cam- 

bridgo,  manor  of,  214,  350. 
Horseloy,  Hicliard  de,  57. 
horso-nails,  rent  of,  282. 
horses,   7,    111,   236,   363,   451,   453, 

455,  462. 
,  proclamation  concerning,  49, 

370. 

,  seizure  of,  6. 

horse-shoes,  rent  of,  282. 
Horseth.    See  Horseheath. 
Horsham  [co.  Sussex],  burgesses  of, 

summoned      to      parliament, 

481. 
,    vicar   of.       See   Coughtele, 

Stephen. 
St.    Faith,     St.    Faith,    co. 

Norfolk,    prior    and    convent 

of,  281. 
Horsley,  Long,  Horslee  [co.  North- 
umberland],  parson  of.      See 

Wakerfeld,  Thomas  de. 
,   West,    Westhorlegh,   West- 

horslegh   [co.    Surrey],   deeds 

dated  at,  464. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  464. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  parson  of.    See  Hert- 

well,  Richard  de. 
Horstede,     Thomas     de,     chaplain, 

vicar  of  Isleworth,  271. 
Horton,  co.  Buckingham,  60,  297. 
Kirby,    Horton,    co.    Kent, 

384. 

,  manor  of,  384. 

Horwell.     See  Orwell. 

Horwode,  Alice  wife  of  Alan,  142. 

,    Fulk,    citizen    of    London, 

177,   178. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  grocer  of  London,  178. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  mercer  of  London,  178. 

Hosdens      (farm),       Hosedenes      in 

Great  Maplestead  and  Castle 

Hedingham,  manor  of,  433. 
Hosseberne,  Gosselin,  fishmonger  of 

London,   490. 
,  Margaret  wife  of  Gosselin, 

490. 
Hossebom-ne  Craule.    See  Husborne 

Crawley. 
Hostiller,     Nicholas    le,     of    South- 
ampton,  442. 
Hotchepount,  Thomas,  489. 
Hothum,   John   de,   bishop   of   Ely, 

132. 
,    ....    son    of    Peter   de,    of 

Bonby,  knight,  425. 


Hotoft.    See  Huttoft. 

llotoft,  John  de,  473. 

,  Richard  de,  coroner  for  co. 

Leicester,   321. 

Cf.  Hotot. 

Hoton    [in    Easington,    co.    York — 

submerged],  315. 
Hoton,  Alice  dc!,  wife  of  James  atte 

Home,  393. 

Richard  de,  105. 

, ,ofAton,  81,83. 

,  William  de,  268. 

Hotonrof,  John  son  of  Richard  de, 

359. 
Hotot,  Robert,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Bedford,   168. 

Cf.  Hotoft. 

Houburne,  John  de,  195. 
Houchon,  Huchon,  Thomas,  69,  185. 

, ,  of  Dartford,  66. 

Houden,  William  de,  of  Clacton,  85. 
Houeden.    See  Howden. 
Houghton,     Adam,     bishop     of     St. 

David's,  32,  407. 

Cf.  Hoghton. 

Houghton   Conquest,    Houton   Con- 
quest, CO.  Bedford,  advowson 

of,  435. 
,   Long,   Great   Hoghton,   co. 

Northumberland,    nianor    of, 

438. 
Houndell,  John  de,  269. 
Houndeslawe.    See  Hounslow. 
hounds,  service  of  finding,  411,  426. 
Houngreford.    See  Hungerford. 
Hounslow,  Houndeslawe,  co.  Middle- 
sex, minister  of,  396. 
housebote  and  haj'^bote,  59,  284,  433. 
Housom,    Richard   de,    of   Emswell, 

431. 
Houton   Conquest.      See   Houghton 

Conquest. 
Howden,   Houeden,   co.   York,  deed 

dated  at,  70. 
Howtell,    Holtale    [parish    of    Kirk- 

newton],  co.  Northumberland, 

194,  195,  199. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  195,  199. 

,  manor  of,  199. 

Hoyvyle,  John  de,  son  of  Wiiliam  dc, 

486. 
Hubard,  John,  369. 
Huberd,  John  of  Harlow,  383. 

,  Margery  wife  of  John,  383. 

Huchewa,  Hurtinus,  of  Spain,  255. 

Huchon.    See  Houchon. 

Hudson,  Alice,  neive,  286. 

hue  and  cry,  304. 

Hugges,   Thomas,   of  L'pton  Snods- 

bury,  clerk,  215,  216. 


582 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Hugh,  John  son  of,  283. 

,  Robert  son  of,  neif,  286. 

,   Wilham  son  of,   de  Penne, 

215. 
Hughefeld,  Robert,  294. 
Huglet,  Thomas,  200. 

Cf.  Hulot. 

Hugley,   John  de,   of   Staffordshire, 

372. 
Huish     Champflower,     Hiwyscham- 

flour,  CO.  Somerset,  248. 
Hulle,    Hull,    John,    the    elder,    of 

Kislingbury,    161. 

,  Ralph  atte,  66. 

,  Robert  de,  mariner,  211. 

,  Stephen  atte,  77. 

,  William  de,  clerk,  84. 

, del,  501. 

Hullewode,  Isabel,  87. 

,  John,  87. 

Hulme,  Jordan  de,  parson  of  Sefton, 

387,  393. 
Hulot,  Simon,  42. 

,  William,  42. 

Cf.  Huglet. 

Hulprynton.    See  Hilperton. 

Hulselde.    See  Hiiaeld. 

Hulton.    See  Hilton. 

Humber,      Little,      Little     Humbre 

[l^arish   of   Paull,    co.    York], 

315. 
Humberston,  Huinberstan,  William, 

king's     clerk,     clerk     of     the 

household,  231. 

,  ....  de,  the  younger,  289. 

Humbleton,  co.  York,  Elstronwick, 

Astanwyk,  Elstonwyk  in,  315, 

434. 
Humbre.    See  Humber. 
Humby,  Honeby  [in   Somerby,    co. 

Lincoln],   88. 
Hunden.     See  Hundon  ? 
Hundenhall,Hefdynghull,Hevedyng- 

hull        [in      Westbury],      co. 

Wilts,  456,  457. 
Hundon  [co.  Suffolk]  ?    Hunden,  62. 
Hungerford,  Houngreford,  Hungur- 

ford,  Thomas,  Thomas  de,  44, 

51,    166,    178,    179,    193,   393, 

408. 
Htinsdon,    co.    Hertford,    manor   of, 

412. 
Hunston,  Thomas  de,  466. 
Hunte,  Hunt,  John,  101. 
,    Margery    (de    Wolverton), 

wife  of  John,  101. 

,  Richard,  405. 

,  Walter,  329. 

,  William  le,  coroner  for  co. 

Stafford,    101,   429. 


Huntercombe,  John  de,  knight,  61, 

368,  433. 
,  Margaret  wife  of  John  de, 

433. 
Huntingdon,  Huntyngdon,  43. 
,     bailiff    of.        See    Luton, 

William  de. 

bridge,  repair  of,  39. 

gaol,  repair  of,  129,  144. 

,  prior  of,  129,  144. 

Huntingdon,  Huntyngdon,  countess 

of.    See  Hastings,  Juliana  de. 
,  earl  of.     See  Clynton,  Wil- 
liam de  ;    Scot,  John  le. 

,     honour  of,  39. 

Huntingdon,    county   of,    160,    379, 

393,  401. 
,   escheator  in.      See  Olneye, 

Jolin  ;       Otteford,      William 

de. 

,  justices  in  eyre  in,  39. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  169, 

273,  480. 
,      service       of       destroying 

vermin  in,  412. 
,  sheriff  of,  30,  39,  129,  138, 

144,  229,  347,  429.     See  also 

Styuecle,  Nicholas  de. 
Huntspill,   Honyspill,   co.   Somerset, 

manor  of,  144,  220. 
Huntyngdon.    See  Huntingdon. 
Huntyngfeld,  Alice  de,  184. 

,  Sir  John  de,  heirs  of,  495. 

Hunygham.    See  Honingham. 

Hm-aunt,  Gerard,  43. 

Hiu-berton,  Hurburton.   (SeeHarber- 

ton. 
Hurdecote,  John,  174. 
Hurmeston.     See  Urmston. 
Hurne,  Roger  atte,  ship-master,  333. 
Hurst,  la  Hurst  [co.  Berks],  la  Lee 

in,  208. 
[in  Slimbridge],  co.  Glouces- 
ter, manor  of,  446. 
Hurst.    See  Hirst. 

Hurstingston,    Hirstlyngstone    hun- 
dred, CO.  Huntingdon,  39. 
husband  lands,  147. 
Husborne      Crawley,      Hossebourne 

Craule,    co.    Bedford,    fee   in, 

497. 
Husee,  Henry,  knight,  466. 

,  John,  58. 

,    ....   brother  of  Sir  Roger, 

188. 
,    Nicholas,    verderer    of    the 

forests  of  Woolmer  and  Alice 

Holt,  360. 
Huttoft,  Hotoft,  CO.  Lincoln,  205. 
Huwet,  Walter,  knight,  276. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


583 


Hychcn.    See  Hitchin. 

Hydon.    See  Hitlon. 

Hykelyngg.    See  Hickling. 

Hykford.    See  Tckford. 

Hylton.    See  Hilton. 

Hylyndon.    See  Hillingdon. 

Hyndale,  John,  braudercr,  93. 

Hynolond,  Williani  son  of  Hugh  de, 
447. 

Hyngston.    See  Hinxton. 

Hynkerhull.   See  Inkersell. 

Hyntlesham.    See  Hintlosham. 

Hynton.    See  Hinton. 

Hynynden,  Thomas  de,  of  Berk- 
shire, 69. 

Hyremere  [near  Windsor,  co. 
Berks!,  335. 

Hyrp,  Jolin,  283. 

Hythe,  Heth  [co.  Kent],  baiUffs  of, 
90,  137. 

,  customers  etc.  of,  137. 

Hywyssh,  Richard,  knight,  335. 


I 

Ibstock,     Ibestok     [co.     Leicester], 

vicar  of.     See  Overton,  Alan 

de. 
Ichyngton.    See  Ickleton. 
Ickenham,  Ikenham,  co.  Middlesex, 

35. 
Ickford,  Hykford,  co.  Buckingham, 

229,  230. 
bridge,     Ikfordebrigge,     co. 

Oxford  [and  co.  Buckingham], 

497. 
Ickham,  co.  Kent,  Well,   Welde   in, 

230. 
Ickleton,  Ichyngton,  co.  Cambridge, 

350, 

,  manor  of,  350.  * 

Ideford,     Yiddeford,      co.      Devon, 

359. 
Idell.    See  idle. 

Iden,  CO.  Sussex,  farin  of,  454. 
,   Moat   (farm),   la   Mote     in, 

289. 
idiot,  marriage  of,  340. 
Idle,  Idell,  river,  co.  Notts,  32. 
Idoingson,  Walter  de,  286. 
Ifold  in  Kirdford  [co.  Sussex],  466. 
Ikeneldeweye.    See  Ikenild  Way. 
Ikenham.    See  Ickenham. 


Ikenild      Way,      Ikencldcnveyo      in 

Childrey,  co.  I5(>rks,  462. 
Ikfordebricge.    See  Ickford  bridge. 
Ikston,  Thomas  do,  4. 
Ilgor,  William,  146. 
Ilkelay.     See  llkley. 
Tlketelishalo,  Robert  de,  knight,  469. 
llkley,  Ilkelav,  co.  York,  manor  of, 

340,  425. 
Illyd.    See  Ullid. 
Ilmington,     Ylmyndon     by     Whit- 

chirche,  co.  Warwick,  170. 
11  ton,      CO.      Somerset,      Mcrryfield, 

Murefeld  in,  435. 
Ilvedon.     See  Elvendon. 
Iinworth,  Richard  de,  keejier  of  the 

Marshalsea  prison,  393. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  Serjeant  at  arms,  1 59. 

Inge,  Joan  daughter  of  John  son  of 

John,  266. 

,  John  son  of  John,  266. 

Ingel,  John,  of  Bassingbourn,  69. 
Ingelby,   Henry  de,   clerk,   55,    199, 

"272. 
,    .  .  .  . ,  king's  clerk,  warden 

of  the  House  of  the  Converts, 

London,   444. 
,  Katherine  wife  of  Thomas 

de,  296. 
,  Thomas  de,  59,  78,  191,  210, 

315,  492,  502. 

, ,  justice,  57,  81,  403. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    ....    of  assize  in  co. 

Northampton,  375. 
,   .  .  .  . ,   ....   of  gaol  delivery 

at  Lincoln,  414,  434. 

, ,  knight,  192,  296,  386. 

Cf.  Engelby. 

Ingelfcld.    See  Englefield  Green. 
Ingel wode.    See  Inglewood. 
Inglescombe.    See  Englishcombe. 
Inglethorpe,    Eleanor    wife    of    Wil- 
liam de,  knight,  29. 

,  William  de,  knight,  29. 

Inglewood,     Ingel  wode     forest,     co. 

Cumberland,  38,  41. 
,  keeper  of.  See  Neville,  Ralph 

de. 

,  purpresture  of,  427. 

,    verderers    of,    election    of, 

246. 
Inkersell,  Hykorhull  [in  Brimington], 

CO.  Derby,  314. 
Inskisty.    See  Askeaton. 
Insula,  de,  de  Lisle,  de  Isle,  del  Isle, 

de    Lyle,    de    Lysle,   Gerard, 

496. 

,  Joan,  427. 

,  John,  496. 

,   ,  Itnight,  173,  485,  486. 


584 


GENERAL 


Insula,  John — cont. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  lord  of  Harewood,  17, 

131. 

, ,  of  Wootton,  82,  260, 

261. 

,  son  of  Roger,  17. 

,  Margaret  (Fitz  Elys)  wife  of 

Warin,  27. 

,  Robert,  496. 

, ,  fees  of,  494-498. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  lord  of  Ridgmont,  493, 

494. 

, son  of  John,  494,  498. 

,  Roger,  16. 

,  Thomas,  bishop  of  Ely,  1. 

Warin,  27,  165,  463,  496. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

in  Berks,  185. 

,  knight,  64,  497. 

Intwood,  Intewode,  co.  Norfolk,  312. 

,  fees  in,  497. 

investiture  of  Edward  the  king's  son 
as  duke  of  Cornwall,  112. 

of  William  de  Monte  Acuto 

as  earl  of  Salisbury,  112. 

Ipewell,  Heppewell,  co.  Nortli- 
ampton,  307,  434. 

Ippegrave,  William,  William  de,  465, 
471. 

Ipposdene.    See  Ipsden. 

Ippewell,  William  de,  72. 

Ipsden,  Ippesdene  [co.  Oxford],  166, 
173. 

Ipswich,  Gippeme,  Yeppewiz  [co. 
Suffolk],  baiUffs  of,  91,  137, 
407. 

,  collectors  of  custom,  cus- 
tomers in,  103,  132,  137, 
422. 

,    controller   of   customs    and 

troner  of  wool  in,  132. 

,  mayor  of,  407. 

,      ....      and     constable     of 

staple  in,  103. 

,  port  of,  26,  104. 

,  searchers  in,  422. 

Irchester,  co.  Northampton,  Chester 
in,   54. 

Irebv,  John  de,  coroner  of  Cumber- 
land, 229,  429. 

, ,  of  Warthole,  403. 

Ireland,  5,  15,  44,  HI,  146,  147,  151, 
290,  347,  433,  456,  482,   499. 

,  bows,  etc.,  sent  to,  29. 

,  chancellor  of,  4,   15,  41,  58, 

63,  94,  95,  96,  108,  110,  132, 
135,  146,  147,  213,  232,  247, 
292,  326,  347,  353,  423,  424, 
443,  448,  453.  See  also 
Assheton,  Robert  de. 


INDEX. 

Ireland — cont. 

,  chancery  of,4,  94,  95,327,425. 

council  'in,  58,  232,  292,  353, 

423,   424,   448. 

,  court  of,  155,  180,  181. 

,   defence  of,   482,    483,   499, 

500. 
destruction    of,    482,    483, 

499,  500. 

,  dissensions  in,  63,  64. 

,  escheators  in.    Sec  Bekenes- 

feld,     Nicholas     de  ;      Stury, 

Richard  de. 
,  exchequer  of,  exchequer    of 

Dublin,    43,     155,     180,    232, 

327,  347. 

,    .....  barons  of,  15. 

,    .....   court  of,   at  Carlow, 

150. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  summons  of,  44. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  treasurer  and  barons 

of,  30,  33.  41,  327,  328. 
,   .  .  .  . , and  cham- 
berlains of,  144,  320. 
,    .  .  .  . ,    treasurer  and  cham- 
berlains of,   150. 

,  export  of  wool  from,  8. 

,  gangers  of  wine  in,  1 32. 

,  guardians  of,  58.     See  also 

Boteler,  James  le. 
,    hospital    of    St.    John    of 

Jerusalem  in,  4. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  prior  of.    See  Utlagh. 

Roger. 
,  justices  attending  justiciary 

of,  180,  391. 
, of,  154,  155,  232,  292, 

423. 

of  Bench  of,  391. 

justiciary  of,  154,  155,  326, 

347,  353,  423,  424,  448,  452. 
,     keeper     of    measures    and 

weights      in.  See     Stury, 

Richard  de. 
law  and  custom  of,  233,  293, 

423. 
,    marshal    of.       See    Morle, 

William   de. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  deputy  of.     See  Naun- 

ton,  John  de. 

,  marshalsea  of,  14. 

,  men  of,  called   kernes,  108, 

109. 

,  merchants  of,  26. 

,    non-resident   lords    of,    15. 

41,  42,  110,  482,  483,  499. 
,    parliament    of,     353,     448. 

499,  500. 
,    proclamations    concerning, 

58,  63.  64,  452. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


585 


In^laiid  -  cont. 

prosjxM-ity  of,  397. 

,  ivbols  of,  l.')0,  354,  448. 

,  rocoivei'       of      money      for 

soldiers'  wages  in.  See  Dalby, 

Waltor  do. 

relief  of,  354,  448,  482. 

,  sale  of  wine  in,  310. 

,  seal  used  in,  63,  94,  108,  154, 

232,  327,  354,  423,  432,  468. 
,  subsidy  by  lords  of  land  in, 

resident   in   England,    15,   41, 

42,  110. 

,  ....  for  defence  of,  21 3,  326. 

.' the  king's  enemies  in,  8,  213, 

326,  354,  448,  482,  499. 
,  the  king's  lieutenant  in.    See 

Lionel  duke  of  Clarence. 
,  treasurer  of,  4,  15,  110,  132, 

135.   146,  213,  232,  292,  .320, 

353,  423,  424,  448,  453.     See 

also      Dalby,      Walter      de  ; 

Troye,  John  de. 

,  treasury  of,  30,  33,  144. 

,  war  in,  10,  15,   41,  42,   108, 

499. 

,  wool  of,  8,  25,  26. 

Iremongere,  Irmongere,  Hugh  le,  of 

Daventry,  267. 
,  John,  burgess  of  Dunstable, 

302. 

, le,  86. 

,  Richard,  462. 

Irenacton.    See  Iron  Acton. 

Irlond,  Irlaund,  Thomas  de,  skinner, 

of  London,  82. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  sheriff  of  London,  212. 

Irmongere.    See  Iremongere. 
iron,  8,  103. 

,  quintals  of,  102. 

Iron    Acton,    Irenacton,    co.    Glou- 
cester, 62. 
Irthlingborough,  Irtlyngbourgh,  Irt- 

Ivngburgh,  co.  Northampton, 

99. 
Isabel  consort  of  Edward  II,  251. 

,  the  queen  mother,  431. 

Isabel   the   king's  daughter,  41,  42, 

99,    102,    111,    180,    190,    191, 

219,  220,  422. 

,  contract  for  marriage  of,  35. 

wife  of  Ingelram  de  Coucy, 

143,  246,  330,  336,  414. 
Isabel,  Isabell,  Henry,  312,  313. 

Philip,  162. 

,  Thomas,  312. 

Is-cennen,    Iskennen    [co.    Carmar- 
then], lord  of.   See  John  duke 

of  Lancaster. 
Isebury,  John  de,  92. 


Lsefeld.    See  Isfield. 
Lstiliiam,  Thomas  de,  387. 
Isenbrugge.    See  Tsombridgo. 
Isfield,    lsefeld,    co.    Sussex,    deeds 

dated  at,  472. 
,  parson  of.    See  Heppeworth, 

Stephen  de. 
Isham     [co.     NorthamptonJ,     deeds 

dated  at,  366,  464. 
Iskennen.    See  Is-cennen. 
Isle,  de,  del.  See  Insula. 
Isleworth,  Istilworth  [co.  Middlesex], 

vicar     of.         See     Horstede, 

Thomas  de. 
Islip,      Simon     de,     archbishop     of 

Canterbury,  89,  275. 
(or    Langham),    Simon    de, 

archbishop     of     Canterbury, 

348. 
Isombridge,    Isenbrugge    [parish    of 

Ercall  Magna],  co.  Salop,    13, 

14. 
Istelworthe,     Gilbert     de,     dyer,    of 

London,  173. 
Istilworth.    See  Isleworth. 
Itchenor,     East,     Estychenore,     co. 

Sussex,    Baldwin    parson    of, 

226. 
,    West,    Westychenore,     co. 

Sussex,  226. 
,    .  .  .  . ,    Nicholas   parson   of, 

226. 
Tttlycote,  John.  82. 
Ive,  Robert,  209. 
Ivechirche.    Sec  Ivychurch. 
Iver,      Evere      [co.      Buckingham], 

manor  of,  399. 
Heath,    Everheth    [in   Iver, 

CO.  Buckingham],   160. 
Iverk,  Overk,  co.  Kilkenny,  serjeanty 

of,  425. 
Ivychurch,     Ivechirche,     co.     Kent, 

372. 
Ivyngefeld,  Adam  de,  66. 
Iwayn,  Cicely  daughter  of  Thomas, 

72. 

,  Thomas,  175. 

., ,    . .  . . ,    citizen    of     London, 

72. 
,   ....   son  of  John,  of  Bret- 

forton,  71. 
Ixworth,    Ixeworth     [co.     Suffolk], 

279. 

manor  of,  448. 

,  prior  of,  448. 

,  priory  of,  448. 


586 


GENERAL  IKDEX. 


J 

J  ace,  John,  verderer  of  Sherwood 
forest,   16. 

Jakeman,  William,  466. 

James,  Geoffrey,  180. 

,  John,  166,  173. 

, ,  of  Wallingford,  195. 

,  Kobert,  of  Yeovil,  398. 

,  William  called  Jonneson  son 

of,  de  Aberden,  441. 

Janekyn,  Jolm,  the  younger,  391. 

Janua,  Janue.    See  Genoa. 

Jarum.   See  Yarm. 

Jasper,  Robert,  of  Ash,  160. 

Jekes,  .John,  391. 

Jene.    See  Genoa. 

Jereseye.     See  Jersey. 

Jem  emu  th.     See  Yarmouth. 

Jersey,  Jereseye,  Jerneseye,  Jerseyse, 
'  island  of,  397,  399. 

,    keeper    of.        See    Cheyne, 

Edmund. 

Jerusalem,  hospital  of  St.  John  of. 
See  St.  John. 

Jesmond,  Jesemuth  [in  Newcastle- 
upon-TjTie],  co.  Northumber- 
land, manor  of,  234,  332. 

jewels,  14,  121,  122. 

Jews,  converted,  444. 

Johan.   See  Fitz  John. 

John  count  of  Tankarville,  viscount 
of  Melun,  chamberlain  of 
France  and  constable  of  Nor- 
mandy, 401. 

John  duke  of  Lancaster  112,  123, 
163,  239,  330,  465,  468. 

,  earl   of   Richmond,    14,    89, 

211,  361. 

,  the  king's  son,   14,  89,  211, 

258,  460. 

,    bailiffs    of,    of    honour    of 

Richmond,    in   Norfolk,    216. 

,  Blanche  his  daughter,  250. 

forest  of,  476. 

,    lord    of   Monmouth,    Gros- 

mont,  Whitecastle,  l\id- 
welly,  Carnwallon  and  Is- 
cennen,  371. 

John  earl  of  Kent,  4,  355. 

,  Elizabeth  his  wife,   4,   355, 

453,  454. 

John  king  of  France,  128,  153,  417. 

,  ransom  of,  115,  235. 

John,  Edward  son  of,  de  Banstode, 
373. 


John — cont. 

,  John  son  of,  de  Sheffeld,  63. 

See  Fitz  John. 

Jollan,  John,  282. 
Jolyf,  Roger,  191,  195. 

,   ....   Beumond  called,  369. 

Jonesson,     William,     of     Aberdeen, 

merchant  of  Scotland,  440. 
,    .  .  .  . ,  of  Brouwershaven  in 

Zeeland,  422. 
,  William  called,  son  of  James 

de  Aberden,  441. 
Jonson,  Henry,  364. 
Jordan,  Jurdan,  Idonea  wife  of  John, 

10,  11. 

,  John,  10,  11. 

,  Robert,  170. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  coroner  for  co.  Glou- 
cester, 335. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Long  Marston,  161. 

Julers.    See  Juliers. 

Julian,  John  son  of,  neif,  286. 

Juliana,  Robert  son  of,  of  Hornsea 

Beck,  295. 
Juliers,    Julers    [Rhenish    Priissia], 

duke  of.    ^ee  William. 
Jurdan.    See  Jordan. 


K 

Kadlesham  in  manor  of    Chadling- 

ton,  CO.  Oxford,  230. 
Kaermerdyn.    See  Carmarthen. 
Kaerwent,    Nicholas   de,    parson    of 

Crondal,   163. 
Kaignes,  Thomas,  clerk,  191. 

Cf.  Keynes. 

Kalian.    See  Callan. 
Kandlesby.     See  Candelesbye. 
Kanghams  ?   Conghomescroft,  Cong- 

homisyerd  in   Ketteringham, 

CO.  Norfolk. 
Karlol,      Carlel,      Karlell,      KarlUl, 

Karliolo,  Adam  de,  draper  of 

London,   193. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  London,  100. 

,  .....  tailor,  85. 

,    Agnes    (de   Hales)    wife   of 

Alan  de,  85,  86. 
,  wife  of   Richard    de, 

338,  339,  363. 
,      Alan    de,     goldsmith      of 

London,  85,  86. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


587 


Karlel — cont. 

Joan  (Waloys)  daughter  of 

Rioluird  do,  338,  339,  363. 

,  Maud  (atto  Molle)  daughter 

of  Riclmrd  de,  338,  339,  303. 

Ricliard  do,  tailor,  of  Lon- 
don, 338,  339,  363. 

Wilham.  338. 

, ,  of  Polobrook,  374,  375. 

,  Wilham  de,  adherent  of  the 

Scots,  17. 

Karliol,  Karlioll.     See  Carlisle. 

Karliolo.     See  Karlol. 

Karlisle.     See  Carlisle. 

Kateshull.    See  Cat  Hill. 

Kathyngeye  in  Northmoor,  co. 
Oxford,  397. 

Kayrewyk,  Gilbert,  440. 

Keal,  Cheyle,  co.  Lincoln,  manor  of, 
427. 

Kedel,  Richard,  burgess  of  Leomin- 
ster, 48  L 

Kedewelly.     See  Kidwelly. 

Kedewy,    See  Cedewain. 

Kegworth,  Simon  de,  185. 

Kelby,  Kelleby,  John  de,  farmer  of 
subsidy,   380. 

,  Robert,  parson  of  Heming- 

by,  469. 

Walter  de,  L5,  380. 

,  . .  . . ,  escheator  in  Lincoln- 
shire, n,  15,  16,  29,  33,  107, 
108,  139,  149,  229,  245,  247, 
260,  322,  323,  348,  349,  355, 
360,  427,  428,  434,  435,  436, 
438,  439,  449,  452. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Lincoln,  489. 

Kelfield,  Kelkfeld  [co.  York],  210. 

,  deed  dated  at,  210. 

,  manor  of,  210. 

Kelkfeld,  Conan  son  of  Henry  de, 
knight,   210. 

,    Henry    son    of    Conan    de, 

knight,   210. 

,  Juliana  wife  of  Henry  son  of 

Conan  de,  210. 

,  Thomas  son  of  Henry  son  of 

Conan  de,  210. 

Kelleby.    See  Kelby. 

Kelleseye.    See  Kelsey,  Kelseve. 

KelleshuU,  John  de,  93. 

Kelleveden.    See  Kelvedon. 

Kelly,  William,  191. 

Kellyngworth.    See  Kenilworth. 

Kelsey,  Kelleseye,  Kelsay  [co.  Lin- 
coln], 73,  88,  405. 

Kelseye,  Kelleseye,  Peter,  clerk, 
176. 

,  William,  William  de,  4,  176, 

272,  478. 


Kelseye,  William — cont. 

,     .  .  .  . ,    collector    of     potty 

custom  in  London,  258. 

Kelsliowc,  Thomas  do,  176. 

,  .  . .  . ,  burgess  of  Newcastle- 
upon-Tyne,    181. 

Kolvcdon,  Kellovedon,  co.  Essex, 
manor  of,  415. 

Kembaro,  William,  375. 

Kemeseye.    See  Kempsey. 

Kempe,  Edmund,  of  Saxthorpe,  387. 

Kempsey,  Kemeseye  [co.  Wor- 
cester], rector  of  See  Piri- 
ton.  Sir  Richard  de. 

Kenardington,  Kynardynton  [co. 
Kent],  368. 

Kendal,  Kirkeby  in  Kendale,  co. 
Westmoreland,  baron  of.  See 
Coucy,  William  de. 

,  court  of,  240. 

,  manor  of,  with  members,  59. 

Kendale,  Sir  Edward  de,  49. 

Kendermoy.    See  Kildrummy. 

Kene,  John,  391. 

Kenet,  Thomas,  369. 

Kenilworth,  Kellyngworth  [co.  War- 
wick], prior  and  convent  of, 
309. 

Kennington,  Kenyngton  near  Lon- 
don [co.  Surrey],  68. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  377,  466. 

Kensal  ?  Kyngesholt,  co.  Middlesex, 
385. 

Kent,  county  of,  46,  49,  50,  51,  66, 
68,  160,  161,  167,  175,  178, 
184,  193,  199,  261,  279,  280, 
294,  2)6,  302,  365,  368,  383, 
394,  460,  461,  465,  489,  491. 

,  arrayers  of  men  at  arms  in, 

325. 

,  earl  of.     See  John  earl    of 

Kent. 

,  escheators  in.  See  Bisshopes- 

ton,     John  ;     Tye,   John   de. 

,  farmers  of  the  king's  manors 

in,  454. 

,  justices  of  assize  in,  66,  189, 

275,  336,  337. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  168, 

272,  480. 

,  search  for  wine  on  coast  of, 

231. 

,  session  of  justices  in,  par- 
doned, 275. 

,  sheriff  of,  89,  137,  180,  209, 

211,  272,  274,  275,  339,  368, 
372,  373,  404,  468,  479.  See 
also  Colepeper,  Geoffrey. 

,  staple  in,  478,  479. 

,  subsidy  in,  71,  89,  381. 


588 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Kent,  Robert  de,  471. 

,  Thomas  de,  213. 

Kentewellehalle.    See  Kentwell  Hall. 

Kentissh,  Adam,  of  Carshalton, 
187. 

Kentwell  Hall,  Kentewellehalle 
[parish  of  Melford,  co. 
Suffolk],  manor  of,  164,  222, 
224,  264,  317. 

Kenyngton.    See  Kennington. 

Kenyngton,  John  de,  parson  of  St. 
Dunstaii  by  the  Tower,  Lon- 
don, 368. 

Kerdeston,  Margaret  (Bacon)  wife  of 
William  de.  100,  260n. 

,  William  de,  260. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  tenant  in  chief,  330. 

Kerdyngton.    See  Cardington. 

Kerneford.    See  Carnforth. 

Kernetby.   ^^ee  Carnaby. 

Kerre,  John,  194. 

Kerry,  Kery  [co.  Montgomery], 
keeper  of  lordship  of,  371. 

Kersalton,  Kershalton.  See  Car- 
shalton. 

Kery.   See  Kerry. 

Kestevene,  John  de,  mercer  of  Lon- 
don, 208. 

Ralph  de,  clerk  in  the  ex- 
chequer of  the  earldom  of 
Albemarle,  114,  115,  123,  125. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  king's  clerk,  7. 

Kete,  John,  395. 

Keteryk,  Keterych,  Ketrich,  Roger, 
170,  200,  243. 

Keteryngham.     See  Ketteringham. 

Keteryngham,  William  de,  parson  of 
Hethersett,  320. 

Ketrich.    See  Keteryk. 

Ketteringham,  Keteryngham,  co. 
Norfolk,  manor  of,  312. 

,  leet  of,  313. 

places  named  in,  312,  313. 

Kettlewell,  co.  York,  Starbottom, 
Starbotill  in,  438. 

Keviredeford.     See  Kirdford. 

keyage.       See  quayage. 

Keynes,  Joan  wife  of  John  de,  155, 
227. 

,  John  de.  knight,  155,  227. 

,  William  de,  330. 

Cf.  Kaignes. 

Keysoe,  Cayshoo,  co.  Bedford, 
fees  in,  434. 

Kibblestone,  Cublesdon  [in  Stone], 
CO.  Stafford,  394. 

kiddles,  429. 

Kidwelly,  Kedewelly  [co.  Carmar- 
then], lord  of.  See  John  duke 
of  Lancaster. 


Kilbline,    Kilblethin,    co.    Kilkenny, 

425. 
Kildare,  earl  of.   See  Fitzgerald. 
Kildrummy,     Kendermoy    [now    in 

Killarmery   parish],    co.    Kil- 
kenny, 424. 
Kilham,  Killum  [co.  York],  394. 
Kilkenny  [co. Kilkenny], Ireland,  424. 

,  castle  of,  424. 

,  fishery  at,  424. 

,  liberty  of,  425. 

,  mills  at,  424. 

I^lkieran,    Ivilkryn,    co.    Kilkenny, 

425. 
Killaloe      (near      Callan),       Killalo 

Moyordrom,     co.     I^kenny, 

425. 
Killum.    See  Kilham. 
Kilnsea,  Kylnese,  co.  York,  315. 

,  Synthorp  in,  315. 

Kimcote  ?   Hamelcote,  co.  Leicester, 

427. 
Kinfare,      Kinver,      Kynefare,      co. 

Stafford,  forest  of,  37. 

manor  of,  37. 

,  Stourton  in,  37. 

Kings  Beaulieu.   See  Beaulieu. 
King's  Bench.    See  Bench. 
Kingscliffe,  Clyve,  Kyngesclyve,  co. 

Northampton,   21,   261. 
Kingsdown,      co.      Kent,     Mappis- 

combe,  Maplescompe  in,  185. 
Kingsey,  Kyngeseye,  cos.   Bucking- 
ham and  Oxford,   manor  of, 

260. 
ling's    Langley,    Kings    Langeleye. 

See  Langley. 
King's  Stanley,   Kyngestanleye,  co. 

Gloucester,  manor  of,  9. 
I^ngston       Bagpuize,       Kyngeston 

Bakepys,     co.     Berks,     deed 

dated  at,  397. 

,  manor  of,  396. 

-by-Lewes,      Kyngeston      by 

Lewes  [co.  Sussex],  69. 

,  dovecote  at,  69. 

Lisle,  Kyngeston  in  the  vale 

of   Whithors,    co.    Berks,    fee 

in,  496. 
Seymour,    Kyngeston    Sey- 

mor,  CO.  Somerset,  466. 
,  manor  and  advowson 

of,   466. 
-upon-Hull,  Kyngeston  upon 

Hull  [co.  York],  245,  368. 
,   collectors  of  customs 

in,  customers  of,  95,  116,  137, 

160,246,322,442. 
,  custom  of  wool  etc.  in, 

314, 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


589 


King.ston-upon-Hiill — cont. 
deed       dated     and 

acknowledged  at,  314. 
,  mayor  and  bailiffs  of, 

91,    137,   319,   322,   371,   407, 

442. 

port  of,  12,  314. 

,  lading  of  ships  in, 

322. 

,  sale  of  wine  in,  299. 

,  ships  of,  11. 

-upon-Thames,       Kyngeston, 

Kyngeston  upon  Thames  [co. 

Surrey],  160,  171,  325. 
,  Coombe,  Combeneville 

in,  452,    453. 
Kingswear,  Kyngiswere  [co.  Devon], 

ferry  at,  163. 
liingswood,  Kyngeswode  chace  [co. 

GlovTcester],  keeper  of,  424. 
Kinver.    See  Kinfare. 
Ivirby  Misperton,   Kirkeby  Mysper- 

ton,  CO.  York,  345. 
,  Little  Barugh,  Bergh 

in,  345. 
,  Monks,  Monks  Ivirkeby,  co. 

Warwick,     prior     of.  See 

Grauleriis,  William  de. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  Easenhall  in,  314. 

Kirdford,  Keuredeford  [co.  Sussex], 

Ifold  in,  466. 
Kiriel,    Kyriel,    John,    knight,    178, 

198. 
Kirkburn,  co.  York,  Eastburn,  Est- 

briui,  in  295. 
Kirkby  in   Ashfield,   Kirkeby  upon 

Asshefeld,     co.     Nottingham, 

423. 
-on-Bain,   Kirkeby  on  Bayn, 

CO.    Lincoln,   manor   of,    322, 

323. 

,  Timiby  in,  322,  323. 

Wharfe,      Kirkeby      upon 

Querf,    CO.    York,    manor   of, 

361. 
Kirkeby.         See      Kendal,      Kirby, 

Kirkby. 
Kirkeby,    Alice    wife    of    John    de, 

knight,   384. 

,  John  de,  82,  84. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  clerk,  474. 

,    .  .  .  . ,   of  Melton  Mowbray, 

501. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  son  of  John  de,  384. 

,     Thomas     de,     parson     of 

Tattershall,  323. 
Kirkeham.    See  Kirkham. 
Kirkelevyngton,     Richard     son     of 

Richard  de,  3. 
Kirkelevyngton.     See  I^rk   Linton. 


Kirkeley,   Kirkeloyrode.      See  Kirk- 
ley. 
Kirketon.    See  Kirton. 
Kirketon,  Kirton,  Kyrkcton,  Isabel 

wife  of  John  do,  knight,  323. 

,  John  do,  1 1. 

, ,  knight,  322,  323. 

,  Roger  do,  91,  274. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  justice  of  assize  in  cos. 

Salop,     Stafford,     Worcester, 

Gloucester  and  Hereford,  191. 

,  William  de,  398. 

,....,  citizen  of  London,  293. 

Cf.  Kirton. 

Kirkham,  Kirkeham,  Kyrkham,  co. 

York,    Holy    Trinity    priory, 

prior  of,  357. 
,   .  .  .  . ,   ....   and  convent  of, 

402. 
Kirk  Leatham,  co.  York,  Coatham, 

Cotum  in,  285. 
Kirk     Leavington,     I^irklevyngton, 

CO.  York,  manor  of,  140. 
Kirklevyngton.     See  Kirk  Leaving- 
ton, Kirk  Linton. 
Kirkley,      Kirkeley,      Kirkeleyrode, 

CO.  Suffolk,  bailiffs  of,  91. 
,   bailiffs,   customers  etc.    of, 

137. 

,  port  of,  36. 

Kirklington,  Kirtelyngton  in  Riche- 

mundshire  [co.  York],  212. 
Kirk  Linton,  Kirkelevyngton,  Kirk- 
levyngton, CO.  Cumberland,  3. 

,  manor  of,  354. 

Kirknewton,     co.     North  vunberland, 

Howtell,  Holtale  in,  194,  195, 

199. 
Kirkstall  abbey  [co.  York],  abbot  of, 

17,  131. 

,  voidance  of,  131. 

Kirse,  William,  45. 
Kirtelyngton.   See  Kirklington. 
Kirtlington,  Kurtlynton,  co.  Oxford, 

3. 
Kirton,  Kirketon  in  Holand,  Kyrke- 

ton  in   Holand,    co.    Lincoln, 

276. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  323. 

,  CO.  Notts,  32. 

Kirton,     Kirketon    wapentake,     co. 

Lincoln,       bailiff       of.        See 

Stevenson,  John. 

,  trespasses  in,  403. 

Kirton.     See  Kirketon. 
Kislingbury,         Kislyngbury,        co. 

Northampton,   161. 
Kislyngbury,  Alice  wife  of  Richard 

de,  161. 
,  Richard  de,  161. 


590 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


I^aresborough,  Knaresburgh  [co. 
York],  castle  of,  150. 

, constable  of,  159. 

forest,  15. 

,   queen  Philippa's  forest  of, 

365. 

Knebworth,  Knebbeworth,  co.  Hert- 
ford, fee  in,  496. 

knighthood,  proclamation  concern- 
ing, 266. 

knives,  marks  put  upon,  182. 

Knockin,  Ivnokyn  [co.  Salop],  lord 
of.    See  Lestrange,  Roger. 

Knolle  [in  Bedminster],  co.  Somer- 
set, manor  of,  294. 

Knotte,  William,  55. 

Knoville,  Knovylle,  Cicely  daughter 
of  John  de,  352,  353. 

,  Eleanor  daughter  of  John  de, 

352,  353. 

,  Gilbert  de,  tenant  in  chief, 

359. 

,  John  de,  352. 

,      Michael      son      of      Anne 

daughter  of  John  de,  352,  353. 

Ivnyf,  Robert,  459. 

Knyght,  John,  burgess  of  Dun- 
stable, 302. 

, ,  of  Catesby,  267. 

,     ....     son    of    William,    of 

Gaddon,   69. 

,  Thomas,  312. 

,  William,  of  Gaddon,  69. 

Knyghton,  Ralph,  pepperer  of  Lon- 
don, 459. 

Knyvet,  John,  John  de,  374,  411, 
468. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    chief   justice   of   the 

king's  bench,  144,  205,  319. 
391. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  delivery  of  rolls 

to,   145. 

, ,  justice,  115,  123,  274, 

275,  403. 

,     of    assize    in 

Suffolk,  164. 

,   .  .  .  . ,    ....   of  the  forest  in 

Lancashire,   476. 

,    . .  .  . ,    ....    to    hold    pleas 

before  the  king,  156,  327, 
409,  426. 

, ,  Imight,  412,  474. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  summons  of,  to  parlia- 
ment,  211. 

Kokhill.     See  Cockleborough  ? 

Krymmok,  John,  merchant,  255. 

Kurtlynton.    See  Ivirtlington. 

Kuynenton,  Margery  wife  of  Wil- 
liam de,   192. 

,  Wniiamde,  192. 


Kylnese.     See  Kilnsea. 
Kynavdynton.    See  Kenardington. 
KjTiefare.    See  Kinfare. 
Kynerdale.    See  Cuerdale. 
Kynerdale.    See  Kyuerdale. 
Kynesdeley,  William,  scholar,  son  o  f 

Hugh  Forester,  382,  383. 
Kyneton,  John  de,  parson  of  Rad- 

chffe-on-Trent,  331. 
Kyng,  John,  383,  391. 

,  Robert,  475. 

Thomas,  of  Maidstone,  335. 

Kyngesclyve.    See  Kingscliffe. 
Kyngeseye.     See  Kingsey. 
Kyngesfold,    Kyngesfeld,    John   de, 

396,  459,  464,  466,  469. 
, knight  of  the  shire  of 

Surrey,  272,  481. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Sussex,  77. 

Kyngesholt.    See  Kensal  ? 
Kyngestanleye.    See  King's  Stanley. 
Kyngeston.    See  Kingston. 
Kyngeston,  John  de,  486. 
,    ....    son    of    Thomas   de, 

193. 
,  Maud  wife  of  Thomas  de, 

194. 
Thomas  de,  knight,  193,  194, 

397,  493. 

,  William  citizen  of  London, 

268. 
Kyngeswode.    See  Kingswood. 
Kyngiswere.     See  Kingswear. 
Kyngthorp    wood     [in    Redesdale], 

CO.    Northumberland,   439. 
Kyriel.    See  Kiriel. 
Kyrketon.    See  Kirketon,  Kirton. 
Kyrkham.     See  Kirkham. 
Kyuerdale,    Kynerdale,     John     de, 

240. 


Lacford,  Lakford,  Lecford,  Thomas, 
484. 

,  de,  of  Bury  St.  Ed- 
munds, farmer  of  subsidy, 
281,  484. 

, of  London,  484. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  pelter,  of  London,  281. 

Lacham.    See  Lasham. 

Laci.    See  Lacy. 

Lackenby,  William  dc,  295, 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


591 


Lackington,    White,    co.    Somorsot, 

Athorstone,  Atholardeston  in, 

248. 
Lacy,  Laci,  Alice  daughter  of  Henry 

de,  earl  of  Lincoln,  113. 
,  Henry,  pepperer  of  London, 

92. 
,  ....  de,  earl  of  Lincoln,  113, 

387. 
,  Margaret  wife  of  Henry  do, 

earl  of  Lincoln,  113. 
,  Nicholas,  of  Stratford  upon 

Avon,   IGl. 

,  Peter  de,  400. 

, clerk,  65. 

,    .  .  .  . ,   keeper  of  the  privy 

seal,  404. 
Ladde,  Thomas,  of  Farningham,  the 

younger,  489. 
Lagham,  Lageham  [in  Godstono,  co. 

Surrey],    298. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  272,  299. 

,  heritage     of    St.     John    of, 

299. 

,  manor  of,  298. 

Laghton.    See  Lavighton. 

Laigle,    Aquila,    honour    of,    in    co. 

Sussex,  167,  243. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  bailiffs  of,  414. 

Laindon,  Langedon  [co.  Essex],  205. 

,  Basildon,  Bartlesden  in,  205. 

Laisyngby.      See  Lazonby. 
Lakadok.    See  Llangadock  ? 
liake,  William  atte,  377. 
Lakenham,  Richard,   489. 
Lakford.    See  Lacford. 
Laleham  [co.  Middlesex],  268. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  268. 

Lambeth,    Lambehithe,    Lambheth, 

Lamheth,       Lamhithe,       co. 

Surrey,  176,  383. 

,  chancery  at,  306,  307,  314. 

,  deed  dated  at,  383. 

,     passage      of      Thames      at 

manor  of,  335. 

,  Bodley,  Buddele  in,  383. 

Lambley,   Lamleye  wood   [co.   Not- 
tingham], 37. 
Lambourne,  John  de,  398. 
Lambyn,  Edmund,  185. 
Lamekyn,  William,  313. 
Lamerton,    co.    Devon,    Cullicomb, 

Colecombe  in,   175. 
Lamheth,  Lamhithe.    See  Lambeth. 
Lamleye.    See  Lambley. 
Lamton,    Robert,    of    Northumber- 
land,  390. 
Lancaster,  Lancastre  [co.  Lancaster], 

assize  of  the  forest  at,  476. 
prior  of,  69. 


Lancaster,duke  of.  See  Henry ;  John. 

,  carl  of.   See  Thomas. 

Lancaster,  Lancastre,  county  of,  60, 

66,  68,  84,  161,  167,  187,  296, 

384,  387,  393,  466,  471,  490. 
,  escheator  in.    See  Nesscfeld, 

William  de  ;   Sutton,  Richard 

de. 

,  forest  in,  480. 

,  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer 

in,  179. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  273, 

480. 
,  sheriff  of,  138,  179,  319,  370, 

480. 
Lancastre,   John   de,    clerk,    60,  68, 

69. 

,  Sir  William  de,  223. 

,  William  son  of  William   de, 

219. 
Lance,  Roger,  391. 
Lancing,  Launcynge,  Launtynge  [co. 

Sussex],  45. 

,  church  of,  45. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  46. 

Landaff.    See  Llandaff. 

Landell,     William,     bishop     of     St. 

Andrews,    153. 
Landewath,  John,   366. 
Landewy    Wilfray.        See    Llande- 

wyvelfrey. 
Langar,  co.  Nottingham,  313,  314. 

,  advowson  of,  331. 

,    lord     of.         See     Tibetot, 

Robert. 

,  manor  of,  331. 

Langbaurgh,    I-,angberg,    Langbergh 

[co.  York],  wapentake  of,  307. 
Langdon,      Longedon      [parish      of 

Wambury],  co.  Devon,  manor 

of,    27. 
Langebergh.     See  Longborough. 
Langedale,  Patrick  de,  431,  432. 
Langedon.     See  Laindon. 
Langeford.    See  Langford. 
Langeford,  Thomas  de,  40,  41. 
Langeleye.  See  T^angley. 
Langeleye,    Langele,    John    son    of 

John  son  of  William  de,  459. 

Ralph  de,  chaplain,  427. 

,   W^illiam   de,   of  Rickmans- 

worth,  459. 

See  Edmund  of  Langeleye. 

Langenham  in  Farnham,  co.  Surrey, 

502. 
Langenhoe,     Langenho,    Langenhoo 

[co.  Essex],  chiirch  of,  463. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  171,  463. 

,  manor  of,  171,  463. 

Langeton.     See  Langton. 


592 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Langford,    Langeford,    co.    Bedford, 

175,  435. 

[CO.  Essex],  388. 

Langham,   Sirnon,   Simon  de,   arch- 
bishop   of    Canterbury,     135, 

210,  250,  251,  252,  300,  467. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  chancellor,  373. 

, , , ,  barge  for, 

335. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  bishop  of  Ely,  41,  205, 

250,  251,  252,  267. 
,   .  .  .  . ,   .  .  .  . ,  chancellor,  100, 

123,  276. 
{or  Islip),   Simon   de,   arch- 
bishop of  Canterbury,  348. 

,  William  de,  knight,  473. 

Langholm  in  Tnglewood  forest,  co. 

Cumberland,   36. 
Langley,    Langeleye,    co.    Kent,   fee 

in,  495. 
,    . .  .  . ,    Brushing,    Bressing' 

in,  495. 
,    Abbot's,  Abboteslangeleye, 

CO.  Hertford,  48,  49,  298. 
,  Iving's,  Kings  Langeleye,  co. 

Hertford,  49,  50,  207. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  deed  dated  at,  50. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  letters  close  dated  at, 

87,   151. 
,     Abbot's   and     King's    [co. 

Hertford],    places   named   in, 

49. 
Marsh,    Langeleye   Marreys, 

CO.  Buckingham,  459. 

deed  dated  at,  459. 

Langrisch,  Isabel,  491. 

Langton,  Langeton,  John  de,  491. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  chaplain,  393. 

,   ....   son  of  Nicholas  de,  of 

York,  410. 
Langton    Matravers,     Langeton    in 

Purbik,  CO.  Dorset,  advowson 

of,  9. 

,  manor  of,  8. 

Lapton  Breton,  William  de,  496. 
Large,  Thomas,  the  elder,  201. 
Larke,  William,  470. 
Larkeby    [parish    of    Coleshill],   co. 

Berks,   165. 
Lascels,   Lasseles,   Roger,   knight  of 

the  shire  of  York,  479. 

,  Walter,  411,  412. 

Lasham,  Lacham  [co.  Hants],  manor 

of,  502. 
Lasseles.     See  Lascels. 
Lassington,   Lassyden,  Lassyngden, 

Lassynden,    co.      Gloucester, 

109. 

,  manor  of,  18,  109. 

lastage,  20,  102,  341. 


Lathum,    Thomas    de,    knight,    the 

elder,  187. 
Latre,  William,  470. 
Latymer,   Elizabeth,    192. 

Thomas,     of     Braybrooke, 

knight,   472. 
William,  331,  375. 
....,  justice  of  the  forest 

north  of  Trent,  442. 
.  .  . ,  knight,  400,  464. 

lord  de,  494. 

Laughton,     Laghton,     co.     Sussex, 

manor  of,  243. 
by   Thornton,    co.    Lincoln, 

322. 
Launcynge.     See  Lancing. 
Launde,   la  Launde  [co.   Leicester], 

prior  and  convent  of,  267. 
Launde,  Laund,  John,  184. 

,  Thomas  de  la,  277. 

Laundels,  Laundelles,  John,  44,  45, 

84,    195,   268,   471,   472,   473, 

474. 

, of  Bampton,  369. 

Laundy,  Alice  (Orchard)  daughter  of 

Cicely  wife  of  Stephen,  220. 
,  Cicely  wife  of  Stephen,  144, 

220,  221. 
Joan   (Childehey)   daughter 

of    Cicely    wife    of    Stephen, 

220. 
,   Maud        (de       Dodyngton) 

daughter    of    Cicely    wife    of 

Stephen,  220. 

Cf.  Londy. 

Launtynge.     See  Lancing. 
Laurence,  Edmund,  60. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Lancashire,  274. 

,  Jolui,  parson  of  Highclere, 

80. 

,  Nicholas,  500. 

Laurens,  Walter,  47. 
Lavendon,  Lavenden  [co.   Bucking- 
ham], abbot  and  convent  of, 

389. 

?  Lavendene,  fee  in,  497. 

Lavington,    Bishops,    Bishops    Lav- 

yngton,  co.  Wilts,  294. 
,    West,    CO.    Wilts,   Gore   in, 

321. 
Lavvngton,  Lavynton,  Richard  de, 

481,  482. 
Law  and  administration  : 

ancient  demesne,  liberties  of,  21. 
assembly  of  wise  men  of  council 

at  Star  chamber,  237. 
assize  of  novel  disseisin,  19,  73, 

166,  170,  189,  222,  224,  264, 

266,  272,  274,  311,  317,  336, 

373,  374,  454. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


593 


Law  and  administration — cont. 

cancellation  of  writ  of  summons, 

100. 
chancery    enrolments    to    be    a 

record  for  ever,  305. 
common  forfeiture  of  shires  and 

hundreds,  341. 
crafts,    protection   of,    74-76. 
deodands,  240. 
election    of    officers    of    staple, 

478-479. 
encroachments  on  arms  of  sea, 

157. 
exclusion  of  foreign  money,  404. 
exemption  of  ecclesiastics  from 

local  assessment,    146. 
indictments    for    felony    to    go 

before       justices       of       gaol 

delivery,  289. 
jurisdiction   in   trespasses   com- 
mitted  by   or   against   clerks 

of  chancery,  177,  290. 
liabilities  of  ancient  tenure  not 

discharged     by     charter     in 

which    tenure    not    specified, 

39. 
maintenance  of  old  number  of 

coroners,  225. 
manorial     customs,     settlement 

of,  302—305. 
maritime  law,   322,   323. 
mortmain    devises    in    London, 

61. 
names  of  farms  of  county,  253, 

254. 
no  examination  of  idiocy  after 

death,  340. 
no  impeachment  for  acquisition 

of  land   held   as   of   honoiu"s, 

3,  38,  243,  411. 
overcharge  of  pasture,  364. 
prerogative  of  beneficed  clerks, 

engaged    on    Icing's    service, 

156. 
recognizance  of  minor  quashed, 

106. 
removal  of  records,  118. 
replevin    of    persons    taken   on 

suspicion,  368. 
return  of  sequatur  suo  periculo, 

202. 
revocation  of  commission,   57. 
right  of  archbishop  of  Canter- 
bury   to    certain    wardships, 

455. 
sessions    in    county    pardoned, 

in     consideration     of     heavy 

charge     of     royal     entertain- 
ment, 275. 
simple  seisin,  149,  250,  251,  449. 


Law  and  administration — cont. 

wreck,   law  etc.   of,     103,    430, 

440. 
See    also    proclamations  ;     ser- 
vices ;      statutes ;      tenures ; 

writs, 
law-books  named,  409. 
Lawe,  Thomas,  391. 
lawyer,  raiment  suitable  for  a,  79. 
Laxman,  Richard,  415. 
Laxton,  co.  Northampton,  manor  of, 

411.       . 
Laybiu-n.    See  Leyburn. 
Layer  Breton,  Leire  by  Colchester, 

CO.  Essex,  fee  in,  496. 
Marney,    Leyre   Marny   [co. 

Essex],  warden  of  chantry  in 

church     of.         See     Bourton, 

Robert  de. 
Layham,  Leyham,  co.  Suffolk,  497. 
Lazenby,  Laysyngby,  co.  York,  345. 
Lazonby,   Laisyngby    [co     Cumber- 
land], parson  of.     ^ee  Sleght, 

John. 
Lea,  la  Lee  [co.  Wilts],  manor    of, 

321. 
Lea,  river,  survey  of,  48. 
Leamington  Hastings,  Estlemynton 

[co.    Warwick],    deed    dated 

at,    174. 
Leasingham  ?  Lesyngton?  Esyngham 

[co.  Lincoln],   Robert  parson 

of  a  mediety  of,  350. 
Leatham.    See  Kirk  Leatham. 
Leavington.    See  Kirk  Leavington. 
Lecford.    See  Lacford. 
Lechebarowe,  Agnes  wife  of  Willian., 

skinner,  of  London,  491. 
Leckhampstead.  Lekhampstede, 

Lekhamstede,       co.       Berks, 

manor  of,  107. 
,    parson    of.       See    BartoK 

John  de. 
Leckonfield,   Lekyngfeld,   co.   York, 

57. 

,  manor  of,  1 40. 

Ledbury  Foreign,  Ledebury  Foreyn, 

CO.  Hereford,  23. 
Ledecombe,  John  de,  king's  clerk,  73. 
Ledes.    See  Leeds. 
Ledrede,  John,  coroner  for  Somerset, 

94. 
Ledulle.    See  Bedville. 
Lee,  la,  in  Hurst  [co.  Berks],  deeds 

dated  at,  208. 

See  Lea. 

Lee,  Leghe,  Joan  wife  of  John  de  la, 

306. 
,  John  atte,  de,  de  la,  du,  49, 

123,   162,   178,  249,  250,  461. 

E  38 


594 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Lee,  John  atte — cont.  i 
,  .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and     justice     of     oyer     and 

terminer  in  Staffordshire,  289. 

, ,  knight,  306,  429,  465. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  steward  of  the  house- 
hold  of   queen   Phihppa,    20, 

24,  28,   104,  365. 
,     .  .  .  . ,     ....    of    the    king's 

household,  114,  124,  159,  240, 

318,  336,  377,  403. 

Thomas  atto,  69,  398. 

, de,  175. 

,  ....  son  of  John  de,  250. 

Leeds,  Ledes,  co.  Kent,  castle  of,  189, 

337. 

prison  at,  348. 

Leek  [co.  Stafford],  parson  of.     See 

Stafford,  John  de. 
Leek,  Simon  de,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Nottingham,  169,  273,  480. 
Leeth,    William,    collector   of   petty 

custom  in  London,  420. 
Lefdale,  John,  491. 

Cf.  Lenedale. 

Leget,  Legat,  Edmund,  366. 
,  Helmingus,  Helmyngus,  300, 

366,  382,  394,  395,  459. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  receiver  of  the  king's 

chamber,  28,   145,  223,  263. 
,    the    king's    esquire, 

339. 
,    .  .  .  . ,    the    king's    yeoman, 

73. 

,  Roger,  387. 

Leghe.    See  Lee. 

Leghtonstone.     See  Leightonstone. 

Leicester,     Leycestre,     abbot     and 

convent  of,  222,  223. 
Leicester,  Levcestre,  county  of,   78, 

176,  267,  270,  272,  377. 
,  escheator  in,  449.     See  also 

Bernard,     John  ;        Catesby, 

William  de  ;      More,   William 

atte. 
knights  of  the  shire  of,  168, 

273,  480. 

,  sheriff  of,  89,  321,  348,  419. 

,  subsidy  in,  71,  89,  203,  281. 

Leigh,  Lye  [co.  Kent],  184. 

,     CO.     Surrey,     Heronshead, 

Hernesheved  in,  97,  98. 

See  Westbury  Leigh. 

Leighton,  co.  Salop,  Eye,  Yeye  in, 

342. 
Leightonstone,    liCghtonstone    hun- 
dred, CO.  Huntingdon,  39. 
Leire,  Leyre,  co.  Leicester,  176. 
,  by  Colchester.        See  Layer 

Breton, 


Leiston,  Leyston,  co.  Suffolk,  abbot 
and  convent  of,  398. 

Leixlip,  Saltus  Salamonis  [cos.  Kil- 
dare  and  Dublin],  manor  of, 
327. 

Lekhampstede,  Lekhamstede.  See 
Leckhampstead. 

Lekyngfeld.     See  Leckonfield. 

Lelley  Dyke,  Lelle  Dyk  [in  Burst- 
wick,  CO.  York],  315. 

Lely,  Joan  ^\^fe  of  John,  the 
younger,  tenant  in  chief,  346. 

Lemyngton.   See  Lymington. 

Lfmedale,  Joan  wife  of  John  de,  68. 

,  John  de,  43,  68. 

Cf.  Lefdale. 

Lengleys.    See  Engleis. 

Lenham,  Edmund  son  of  Edmund 
de,  64. 

,  Sibyl  sister  of  Edmund  son 

of  Edmund  de,  64. 

Lenne.    See  Lyim. 

Ijenne,  Clement  de,  of  London, 
draper,  468. 

,     William     de,     bishop     of 

Chichester,  89.  321,  430. 

Lenveysey,  John,   133. 

Leoline  ap  Madoc,  bishop  of  St. 
Asaph,  210. 

Leominster,  Leomynstre  [co.  Here- 
ford], burgesses  of,  summoned 
to  parliament,  481. 

Lepere,  Lawrence,  of  Wytnondham, 
324. 

Lequeitio,  Liquecio,  province  of 
Biscay,  Sj^ain,  merchants  of, 
102,   103. 

Leringsete.     See  Letheringsett. 

Lesbury,  Lessebery,  co.  North- 
umberland, manor  of,  438. 

Lescluse  in  Flanders.     See  Sluys. 

Lescrope,  Henry,  controller  of  the 
treasurer  of  Calais,  9. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  governor  of  Calais,  247. 

,  Richard,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  York,  169. 

Lescy,  Simon,  of  Kingscliffe, 
parson  of  St.  Mary,  Stam- 
ford, 261. 

Lese,  Richard  atte,  49,  289. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Kent,  272. 

Lesness,  Letenesse,  co.  Kent,  148. 

Lespruce.    See  Prussia  ? 

Lessebery.    See  Lesbury. 

lestage,  443. 

Lestrange,  Lestraunge,  Ankaret 
wife  of  John,  of  Blakemere, 
246. 

,  Elizabeth  wife  of  FxJk,  342. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


595 


Lostrango — cont. 

,  Kulk  son  of  John,  342. 

,  John,  342. 

,    ....    son   of   John   son    of 

John,  246. 

,  Roger,  lord  of  Knockin  and 

Ellesniore,  371. 

Lestnrmyn,  Isolda  wife  of  Donald, 
382. 

Lesyngton.    See  I.easingham  ? 

Letenesse.    See  Lesness. 

Letham,  Edward  de,  320,  337. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight,  57. 

Letheringsett,    Leringsete,   co.    Nor- 
folk, fee  in,  497. 

letters  of  exchange,   ordinance   con- 
cerning, 90. 

Letse,  John,  of  West  Crudwoll,  369. 

Leukenore,  James,  488. 

,  John,  of  Fletching,  277. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Sussex,  50. 

,  Tliomas  de,  188. 

Levelyf,  Simon,  brewer  of  London, 
278. 

Levere,  Ralph  atte,  183. 

Leverington,  Leveryngton  [co.  Cam- 
bridge], 267,  277. 

Leveryngton,  Sir  Thomas  de,  parson 
of  Gedling,  314. 

Lewer,  Richard,  of  Doncaster,  488. 

Lewes  [co.  Sussex]  castle,  deed 
dated  at,  69. 

,  prior  of,  89. 

,      .  .  .  . ,     removal     of,     from 

summons  to  parliament,  100. 

Lewesham,  John  de,  64. 

Lewis  I,  count  of  Flanders,  35. 

II.    count   of   Flanders,    35, 

130. 

II,  duke  of  Brabant,  459. 

Lewys,  Robert,  parson  of  Good- 
manham,  269. 

Lexden,  co.  Essex,  manor  of,  469. 

Ley,  Lower,  Leye  [in  Westbury-on- 
Severn],  co.  Gloucester,  18, 
109. 

,  manor  of,  18,  109. 

Leyborne,  Leybourne,  Juliana  de, 
countess  of  Huntingdon.  See 
Hastings. 

,  Phihp  de,  295. 

Leybourne,  Leyburn,  co.  Kent,  fee 
in,   495. 

Leyburn.  Layburn  [co.  York],  212. 

Leyburn,  heritage  of,  495. 

Leycestre.    See  Leicester. 

Leycestre,  Agnes  wife  of  William  de, 
384. 

,  Henry  de,  4. 

,  John,  of  Worcestershire,  46. 


Leycestre — cont. 

,    Richard    de,    43,    73,    271, 

389. 

,  Walter,  470. 

,  William    do,      fourber,      of 

London,   384. 
Leyf,  William,  42. 
Leyham,  William  de,  383. 
Leyham.    See  Layham. 
Leynthale,    Katherino    daughter    of 

John  de,  25. 

,  Joan  wife  of  John  de,  25. 

,  John  de,  25. 

Leyre,  William  de,  432. 
Leyre.     See  Leire. 

Marny.    See  Layer  Mamey. 

Leyston.     See  Leiston. 
Lichebarwe.    See  Litchborough. 
Lichfield,    Lychefeld    [co.    Stafford], 

bishop  of.    See  Coventry  and 

Lichfield. 
,    church    of    St.    Chad,    St. 

Ceadde,  St.  Cedde,  378. 
,     .  .  .  . ,    treasurer    of.        See 

Pelegrini,  Master  Hugh. 
Liddington,  Ludyngton  [co.   Wilts], 

270. 

,  -water-mill  in,  270. 

?  Litheton,  co.  Wilts,  fee  in, 

479. 
Lidecroft     under     Windsor     castle 

[co.  Berks],  inclosure  of,  412. 
Lighthorne,    Lytethurne    [co.    War- 
wick], parson  of.    See  Blocke- 

le,  John  de. 
Lillebourne,  Richard  de,  291. 
Lillebm-n,      William      de,      knight, 

prisoner,  84. 
Lilleye,    Richard    son    of    John    de, 

of  Yalding,  48. 
Lillisdon,      Lullesdon      [in      North 

Curry,  co.  Somerset],  489. 
Lillyngston.     See  LiiUingstone. 
Limbury,   Lymbury  [in  Luton],  co. 

Bedford,  manor  of,  350. 
Lincoln,      179,       348,       360,       414, 

489. 
,  archdeacon  of.     See  Wyke- 

ham,  William  de. 
,    bailiffs   of,    251,    360,    376. 

See  also  Erpeston,  John  de  ; 

Prentys,  John. 
,  bishop  of.    See  Buckyngham, 

John  de. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  his  commissary.      See 

Dalton,  Peter  de. 

castle,  434. 

cathedral,     church     of     St. 

Mary,  minster  of  Our    Lady, 

mother  church,  81,  360, 


596 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Lincoln,  cathedral — cont. 

,      .  .  .  . ,     canons     of.         See 

Lymbergh,  Adam  de  ;  New- 
enham,  John  de  ;  Raven- 
sere,  Richard  de. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  dean  of.    See  Stretele, 

John  de. 

,   . .  .  . ,   ....   and  chapter  of, 

251. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  prebend  of  Cropredy 

in,  401. 

,  .  .  .  .,  vicar  of,  251. 

,  custom  of,  360. 

,  farm  of,  251,  360. 

,  justices  of  gaol  delivery  at, 

414,  434. 

,  mayor  of,  376. 

,  parish  of  St.  Benedict,  360. 

Lincoln,  county  of,  80,  81,  82,  84,  86, 
176,  200,  261,  280,  290,  291, 
295,  296,  310,  379,  382,  386, 
388,  394,  396,  402,  405,  464, 

272,  477,  478,  492. 

,   pscheator  in.      See   Kelby, 

Walter  de. 
knights  of  the  shire  of,  169, 

273,  480. 

,  sheriff  of,  7,  16,  30,  129,  138, 

220,  259,  348,  378,  379,  380, 
407,  428,  434.  ,S'ec  also 
Fulnetby,  Thomas  de  ; 
Haulay,  William  de. 

,  subsidy  in,  203,  380. 

Lincoln,  earl  of.  See  Lacy,  Henry  de. 

Lincoln,  John  de,  receiver  of  John  de 
Wesenham,  2. 

,  Robert  de,  clerk,  4,  111. 

,     Thomas    de,     of    London, 

fisher,  58. 

Lindeth,  Lyndheved  [parish  of 
Wartar],  co.  Lancaster,  59. 

Lindryche,  Emma  wife  of  Nicholas 
de,  162. 

Lindsell,  Lyndesselle  [co.  Essex],  171. 

Lingfiejd,  Lyngefeld  [co.  Surrey],  188. 

,  deed  dated  at,  66. 

Linsheeles,  Lynsheles  [in  Elsdon],  co. 
Northumberland,   440. 

Linslade,  Lynchelade,  co.  Bucking- 
ham, 435. 

Linton,  Lyndon,  Lynton  [co.  Cam- 
bridge], 391. 

,  Thomas  parson  of,  213. 

See  Kirk  Linton. 

Lionel  duke  of  Clarence,  the  king's 
son,   4,   403,   466. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  lieutenant  in  Ireland, 

^  4,  10,  14,  15,  30,  33,  41,  63, 
110,  132,  135,  144,  146,  150, 
154,  213,  320,  327,  397. 


Lionel  duke  of  Clarence — cord. 

, ,  lord  of  Usk,  371. 

,    .  .  .  . ,   return   of,   from  Ire- 
land, 456. 
Liquecio.   See  Lequeitio. 
Lisbon,    Lussebon  in  Spain.  Lusshe- 

bon,   Lusshebone    [Portugal], 

322,  323,  368. 

,  port  of,  255. 

Lisle,   honour  of,   comitatus  Insule, 

498. 
Lisle.   See  Insula. 
Liston,   CO.   Essex,   manor   and   ad- 

vowson  of,  350. 
Liston,    Joan   wife   of   William   de, 

350. 
,  Thomas  son  of  William  de, 

350. 

,  William  de,  350. 

Litchborough,    Lichebarwe,    Lyche- 

barowe,     co.     Northampton, 

307,  434. 
Lith',    Alexander    de,    of    Whitby, 

376. 
Litheton.    See  Liddington  ? 
Litil  Doge  of  West  Coatham,  285. 
Litle,    Lytel,    Lytle,    John,    alder- 
man of  London,  173. 
,     .  .  .  . ,    citizen    of    London, 

268. 

,  WiUiam,  396. 

Littelbyrs.    See  LittlebjTS. 
Littelton,  Littleton,  Henry  de,   184. 

,  John  de,  106. 

,  Robert  de,  of  Bristol,  44. 

Littlebury    [co.    Essex],    church    of, 

491. 
LittlebjTs,  LittelbjTS,  John  de,  81, 

82,  277. 
Littlehawe.    See  Haugh. 
Littleton,    Lytljmgton,    co.    Middle- 
sex, 268. 
,  CO.  Worcester  ?    Luttelton, 

268. 
Littleton.   <S'ee  Littelton. 
Livermere,  Lvvermere  [co.  Suffolk], 

279. 
Liverpool,     Lytherpole,     Lyverpole, 

LyverpoU,      Lyverpulle,      co. 

Lancaster,  29,  226. 

,    bailiffs  of,  91. 

,   bailiffs,   customers  etc.   of, 

137. 
,  mayor  of.    See  Ayneshargh, 

Richard  de. 

,  port  of,  226,  453. 

,  ship  of,  25. 

Llandaff,   Landaff  [co.   Glamorgan], 

bishop     of.         See     Cradock, 

Roger. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


597 


Llandowyvelfrey,  Landewy  Wilfray 
[co.  Pembroke],  chaplains  etc. 
of.  Sec  Nichol,  William  ; 
Slomon,  Brian. 

Llangadock  [co.  Carmarthen], 
?  Lakadok,  rector  of.  See 
Walden,  John. 

Lobenliam.    See  Lubenham. 

Loddiswell,  Lodeswil],  co.  Devon, 
manor  of,  359. 

Lodegarshale.    See  Lurgashall. 

Lodolowo.    See  Ludlow. 

Lodelowe,  John  de,  knight  of  the 
shire  of  Salop,  273. 

,  Thomas  de,  guardian  of  the 

peace  and  justice  of  oyer  and 
terminer  in  Berks,  478. 

, ,  justice,  274,  275. 

,     of    assize    in 

Essex,  272,  336,  373. 

,    in  Kent, 

189. 

, ,  knight,  469. 

,  ....  son  of  William  de,  139, 

384. 

Lodolyngden,  John  de,  209. 

Lodere,  Hugh,  42,  43. 

Loders,  co.  Dorset,  manor  of,  8. 

Lodeswill.   See  Loddiswell. 

Loffield,  Loffeld  [in  Clewer],  co. 
Berks,   133. 

Loft,  Wjlham,  491. 

loggats,  prohibition  of,  181. 

Logghes,  William,  366. 

Loghingcote.   See  Luffincot. 

Loghingcote,  John  de,  73,  434. 

Lokton,  Thomas  de,  coroner  for 
York,  156. 

Lombardy,  Lumbardy,  247. 

,  merchants  of,  420,  441,  444, 

455. 

London,  10,  12,  18,  29,  30,  35,  44, 
46,  47,  55,  57,  58,  60,  62,  65, 
68,  70,  79,  80,  88,  92,  93,  97, 
100,  120,  122,  124,  152,  158, 
172,  184,  187,  188,  198,  200, 
208,  209,  210,  211,  212,  222, 
235,  236,  249,  261,  263,  267, 
271,  278,  290,  291,  293,  305, 
315,  349,  361,  363,  375,  376, 
377,  379,  381,  382,  388,  392, 
401-,  402,  404,  408,  418,  422, 
439,  442,  451,  458,  460,  467, 
471,  475,  477,  478,  487,  490, 
502. 

aldermen  of,  60,  61,  77,  182, 

280.  See  also  Chichestre, 
John  de  ;  Forester,  W^alter  ; 
Litle,  John  ;  Pecche,  John  ; 
Tornegold,    John. 


London — cont. 

,    alnagcr    in.        See    1  lervy, 

William. 

archdeacon    of,    odicial    of, 

450. 

,  armourers  of,  85,  398,  460. 

,  assay  of  wine  in,  143. 

,    bishop    of.       See   Sudbury, 

Simon  de. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  barony  of,  422. 

brewers  of,  278,  393. 

,  burgess  of,  40 1 . 

,  carpenters  of,  72,  488. 

chamberlain  of,  176,  177. 

,  chancery   at,    50,    52,     192, 

294,  384,  387,  406,  408,  469, 
489,  501. 

,  chandlers  of,  173.  307,  489. 

,  citizens  of,   63,   65,   72,   78, 

82,84-,  94,  164,  176,  177,  195, 
203,  208,  211,  263,  265,  267, 
268,  269,  270,  294,  296,  305, 
315,  336,  379,  398,  477,  490, 
491,  493. 

,       collectors       of       custom, 

customers  of,  30,  40,  51,  95, 
104,   132,   136,   160,  335,  370. 

,  ....  of  great  custom  in,  441, 

445. 

,    ....    of    petty   custom   in, 

143,  362,  363,  364,  418,  420, 
441.  See    also     Kelseye, 

William  de;     Leeth,  William. 

,    controller    of    customs    of, 

132. 

,  ....  in  port  of,  363. 

,  cordwainers  of,  208. 

,  coroners  of.        See  Hockele, 

William  de  ;   Strote,  William. 

,  council  at,  136,  355. 

,  court  of,  290. 

,  crafts  in,  protected,  74-76. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  42,  43,  47, 

50,  51,  54,  55,  60,  63,  65,  67, 
69,  78,  79,  81,  82,  84,  85,  86, 
87,  92,  93,  161,  163,  165,  170, 
172,  173,  174,  175,  177,  179, 
181,  182,  183,  184,  187,  188, 
189,  192,  194,  196,  197,  198, 
199,  200,  203,  205,  206,  207, 
267,  268,  269,  271,  276,  277, 
278,  280,  295,  290,  298,  299, 
300,  301,  306,  307,  378,  379, 
381,  382,  386,  387,  388,  397, 
398,  399,  401,  402,  403,  408, 
460,  461,  464,  465,  469,  471, 
476,  477,  478,  487,  489,  491, 
493,  494,  500. 

,  drapers  of,  97,  100,  161,  193, 

197,  205,  208,  279,  315,  379. 


598 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


London — cont. 

,  dyers  of,  173. 

,  escheator  in.  Sec  below  under 

mayor. 
,  exchange  of  money  etc.  in, 

80,  404. 

,  farm  of,  52,  343,  347. 

,  fishers  of,  58. 

,  fishmongers  of,   64,   74,    92, 

170,  205,  490. 

,  "fourbour"  of,  384. 

,  free  burgage  in,  24,  447,  450. 

,  Friars  Minors  of,  431. 

,    ganger    in.        See    Walshe, 

WilHam. 

,  girdlers  of,  173. 

,  goldsmiths  of,  85,  203,   263, 

269,  388. 

,   grocers  of,  178. 

,   husting   of,    211,    374,    387, 

468. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  will  enrolled  in,  450. 

,  ironmongers  of,  204. 

,  issues  of,  139. 

,  keepers  of  passage    in  port 

of,   136,  361,  467. 

,  law  and  custom  of,  324. 

,  leadbcaters  of,  315. 

,  lease  of  subsidy  in,  282,  381, 

484. 

,  marking  of  cutlery  in,  182. 

,  mayor  of,  12,  13,  60,  61,  74, 

75,    76,    136,    143,    157,    176, 

177,   182,  211,  257,  280,  310, 

342,  370,  371,  404,  470. 
,     .  .  .  . ,    and    escheator    in. 

See  Andreu,   James  ;     Bury, 

Adain         de  ;  Cavendish, 

Stephen  de  ;   Louekyn,  John  ; 

Mordon,   Simon  de  ;      Notte, 

John. 
,  mercers  of,  55,  178,  208,  209, 

377,  398,  477,  489,  490,  491. 
,     merchants    of,     280,     361, 

398,  399,  402,  467,  487. 

,  ....  of  Almain  in,  364. 

,   ....  of  Calais  in,  457. 

,  pelters  of,  281. 

,  pepperers  of,   92,   208,   277, 

459,  461. 

,  plague  in,  increase  of,  426. 

,  port  of,  257,  318,  328,  420, 

458. 

,  poulterers  of,  24. 

,  privileges  of,  24,  60,  61. 

,  recorder  of,  60,  61. 

,  sale  of  cloth  etc.     in,    349, 

483. 
,    ....   of  wine  in,   176,   177, 

280,  309,  364,  365,  419,  470. 


London — cont. 

,   searchers   in,    30,    51,    363. 

See  also   Bretford,   William ; 
Sholdham,  Reynold  de. 

,  sheriffs  of,  12,  13,  30,  35,  49, 

•  52,  60,  61,  74,  75,  79,  91,  136, 
139,  157,  176,  177,  181,  182, 
211,  212,  257,  258,  288,  290, 
310,  322,  323,  324,  338,  339, 
343,  347,  349,  362,  363,  368, 
370,  371,  372,  376,  400,  404, 
427,  458,  467,  468,  470,  483. 
See  also  Br ikeles worth,  John  ; 
Croydon,  Richard  ;  Gyr- 
deler,  Robert  ;  Hiltoft, 
John  ;  Irlond,  Thomas  de  ; 
Mitford,  John  de  ;  Mordon, 
Simon  de  ;  Sancto  Albano, 
John  de ;  Wymondham, 
Adam. 

,  ship  of,  467. 

skinners  of,  82,  97,  211,  269, 

381,  488,  491. 

,  spicers  of,  189,  336. 

,  stockfishmongers     of,     398, 

487. 

,   suburbs  of,   364,   381,   387, 

404,  470,  483. 

,  tailors  of,  188,  208,  307. 

,  troner  of  wool  in,  132. 

vintners  of,   280,   310,    365, 

388. 
London,  places  named  : — 

Aldgate     Street,     Algatestrete, 
Algatstrate,  Algatstrete,   183, 
185,  338,  363. 
All  Hallows,  Bread  Street,  Bred- 
stret,  parish  of,  477. 

[the      Great],      in     the 

Roperie,   parish   of,   469. 

Staining,      Stanynge- 

churche,      parish       of,      338, 
363. 
Billingsgate,   11,   74. 
Bridge  Street,  Brugestrete,   11. 
Bucklersbury,       Bokeleresbury, 

exchange  of  inoney  at,  404. 
Charing  Cross,  Charryngcrouch, 

Cherryng  Cross,   465. 
,    highway    from    West- 
minster to,  82. 
Cheapside,  street  of  Chepe,  177 
Clerkenwell,  deed  dated  at,  58. 

,  priory  of,  261. 

Coldharbour,     Coldherbergh    in 

the  Hay  Wharf,  299. 
Corpus    Christi    by   Candlewick 
Street,  Candelwykstrete, 

master    of    chapel    of.       See 
Wytherle,  Robert  de. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


590 


London,  ])lacos  named — cont. 

Dibblosvvluirf    [parish      of      St. 

Michael.  QiUTuliitlioJ,  74. 
East  Smitlifiold,  Estsmethefeld, 

211,  490. 
Fleet,  Flete  prison,  the,  265. 
,    warden    of,    179,    265, 

279,  291. 
Fleet  Street,  Fletestrete,  393. 

,  deed  dated  at,  72. 

,  shops  in,  72,  175,  387. 

Frosli   wliarf,    Fresshfisshwharf, 

74. 
Friars     Preachers,     house     of, 

within  Ludgate,  404. 
Guildhall,      Gihalde,      Gihalle, 

Gildehall,  the,  60,  182,  324. 
Haywharf,  the,  in  All  Hallows 

the  Great,  299. 
Hoggestrete,   211. 
Holborn,  Holburne,  deed  dated 

at  the  bishop  of  Ely's  manor 

of,   267. 
Holv  Trinitj^   new  churchyard 

of,   212. 
House  of  the  Converts,  warden 

of.    See  Ingelby,  Henry  de. 
inn  of  Walter  FitzWalter,  469. 
Ledeneporche,  brewhouse  called 

le,  72. 
Little  Trinity  lane,  deed  dated 

at,   160. 
Lombard  Street,  Lumberstrete, 

Lumbardstrete,    177. 

,  ward  of,  199,  200. 

London  Bridge,  74,  76. 
Marshalsea  prison,  7,  393. 
,  keeper  of.  See  Imworth, 

Richard  de. 
Minchin     Lane,     Menchenlane, 

447. 
Monkwell  Street,  Mugwelstrete, 

189. 
Newgate,    Neugate,    prison    at, 

323,  .324,  368,  382. 
New  Temple,  the,  176. 

,  deed  dated  at,  176. 

Old     Fish     Street,     Aldefisshe- 

strete,     Aldefisstrete,      Olde- 

fisshstret,   74. 
,  the  bishop  of  Hereford's 

lodging  near,  198,  200. 
Pudding     Lane,     Puddynglane, 

11. 
Queenhithe,       Queen       Hythe, 

Queenhythe,  the  Quenehuth, 

35,  52,  324,  343,  347. 
St.     Alban,    Wood    Street,     in 

Wodestrete,    rector   of.       See 

Branketre,  Thomas. 


London,  places  named — cont. 

St.  Andrew,  Castle  Baynard, 
parish  of,  85. 

,      Holborn,      Holburne, 

deed  dated  in  parish  of,  173. 

St.  Anthony,  parish  of,  459. 

St.  Augustine,  Watlirig  Street, 
Watlyngestrete,  St.  Augustine 
by  the  door  of  St.  Paul's 
chiu'ch,  parish  of,  82,  84. 

St.  Bartholomew,  West  Smith- 
field,  Smethefeld,  West 
Smothefeld,  72,  87. 

,  prior  of,  75,  192. 

,    ....    and   convent   of, 

298.     • 

St.  Benet,  Paul's  Wharf,  atte 
Wodewharf,  by  Paules- 
wherf,  parish  of,  192. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the  earl  of  Salis- 
bury's lodging  in,  206. 

St.  Botulph  Aldersgate,  St. 
Botulf  near  Aldrychgate, 
church  of,  460. 

without    Aldgate,    211, 

490. 

St.  Bride,  Fleet  Street,  Flete- 
strete, church  of,  307,  387. 

,  parish  of,  387. 

St.  Clement  Danes,  without  the 
bar  of  the  New  Temple,  parish 
of,  183. 

St.  Dunstan  by  the  Tower,  in 
the  East,  Est,  parish  of,  447. 

,    parson   of.      See 

Kenyngton,  Jolin  de. 

in  the  West,  church- 
wardens of,  72. 

,  parish  of,  72. 

St.  Faith  [under  St.  Paul's], 
Old  Dean's  lane,  Oldedenes- 
lane,  parish  of,  78. 

St.  Giles  without  London, 
master  of  hospital  of,  157, 
158. 

St.  James,  Garlickhythe,  Gar- 
lekhithe,  church  of,    78. 

St.  John  Zachary,  Zakary, 
chantry  in  church  of,  450. 

,  i^arish  of,  450. 

St.  Margaret  [New  Fish  street], 
in  Briggestrete,  174. 

St.  Martin  le  Grand,  dean  of 
free  chapel  of.  See  Mulsho, 
William  de. 

Orgars,  Orgar,lane  of,  11. 

St.  Mary  Fanchurch,  Fan- 
cherclic,  deed  dated  at,   366. 

St.  Mary  Graces  abbej%  by  the 
Tower,  abbot  of,  212,  259. 


600 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


London,  places   nani^ed: 

St.  Mary  Graces  abbey — cont. 

,   abbot   and  convent  of, 

490. 

and  monks  of,  211. 

,  books  for,  259. 

St.      Mary      Magdalene,      Milk 

Street,    Mylk    Strete,    parson 

of.    See  Somerby,  William. 
St.     Michael     Bassishaw,     Bas- 

syngeshawe,  parish  of,  78. 
Crooked  Lane,  Crokede- 

lane,  parish  of,  142. 
,   parson   of.      See 

Thrisseford,  William  de. 
Hoggen  Lane,  Hoggen- 

lane,  parish  of,  450. 
Queenhithe,   parish   of, 

173. 
St.     Mildred    in    the     Poultry, 

parish  of,  24. 
St.  Olave  [Silver  Street],  189. 
St.  Paul's  church,  78,  278,  295, 

306. 
,  canons  of.    See  Colonia, 

William  de  ;    Wade,  John. 
,    dean   and   chapter   of, 

102,  341. 

deed  dated  at,  87. 

,  the  cross  at  the  north 

door  of,  47,  67. 
St.  Sepulchre's  church,  267. 
St.  Stephen,  Walbrook,  Walle- 

broke  Street,  269. 
St.  Thoinas  of  Aeon,  master  and 

brethren  of,  494. 
Shoe  Lane,  Scholane,  188. 
stocks,     the,     Lestekkes     near 

Old  Fish  street,  74. 
suburb   of,   where   cliancery   is, 

177. 
Thames    Street,    Thamisestrete, 

Thamsestrete,  192,  280. 
Tower,  the,   41,    171,   212,   241, 

297,  414. 
,   constable  of,   71.      See 

also     Buckeshull,     Alan    de  ; 

Vache,  Richard  la. 

,  mint  in,  405. 

,  . .  .  . ,  houses  in,  79. 

,    .  .  .  . ,   instruments  for, 

258. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  warden  of,  of  the 

king's  moneys.      See  Thorpe, 

John  de. 
prison  in,  100,  128,  152, 

209,  240,  258,  259,  298,  338, 

377,  465. 
,  wardrobe  in,  keeper  of. 

See  Sleford,  John  de. 


liOndon,  places  named — cont. 
Vintrv,  the,  76. 
Walbrook,  Walbroke,  177,  269. 

,  court  of,  494. 

West  Cheap,  Westchepe  ward, 

deed  dated  at,  300. 
West    Smithfield,    Westsmethe- 

feld,  82. 
Whitefriars,  chancery  at,  59. 
,  coimcil  at,  60. 

London,  Hildebrand  de,  165. 

,  James  de,  fishmonger,  71. 

,  John  de,  50,  133. 

Cf.  Loundres. 

Londonthorpe,  Lundethorp,  co.  Lin- 
coln, 420. 

Londy,  John,  370. 

Cf.  Laundy. 

Longborough,  Langebergh  [co. 
Gloucester],   68. 

Longbridge  Deverill,  co.  Wilts, 
Crockerton  in,  193,  194. 

Longcott,  CO.  Berks,  Fernham  in, 
197. 

Longden,  Longesdon  [in  Pontesbury, 
CO.  Salop],  fee  of,  367. 

Longe,  John  le,  265. 

,  Nicholas,  269.   • 

,  Simon,  461. 

Longedon.    See  Langdon. 

Longemerschton.  See  Marston, 
Long. 

Longenore.    See  Longner. 

Longesdon.    See  Longden. 

Longestratton.    See  Stratton,  Long. 

Longford,  co.  Derby,  HoUington  in, 
18. 

Longner-upon-Severn,  Longenore, 
CO.  Salop,  manor  of,  394. 

Longwitton,  Longwotton  [parish  of 
Hartburn],  co.  Northumber- 
land,  147. 

Lorayn,  James  le,  194. 

Lorchon,  Lorchun,  William,  395,  396. 

Lorentj'^n,  Geoffrey,  465. 

Lorymer,  Robert,  295. 

Loryng,  Nigel,  128. 

, ,  knight,  269. 

,  Roger,  394. 

Cf.  Loueryng. 

lot  and  scot,  61. 

Loudham,  John  de,  knight,  68. 

Loueden,  Katherine  (de  Warmeston) 
wife  of  Thomas  de,   319. 

Thomas  de,  319. 

Louekyn,  John,  398. 

,     .  .  .  . ,    mayor    of,    and    es- 

cheator  in  London,  251,  268, 
278,  323,  343,  347,  350. 

Roger,  271. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


601 


Loueryng,  William,  chaplain,  365. 

Of-  Loryiig. 

Louotoft,  Agnes  wifo  of  Robert, 
3G6,  4G4. 

,  Robert,  366,  464. 

Loundros,  Hugh  de,  coroner  for  co. 
Huntingdon,   429. 

Robert  do,  knight,  270. 

Cf.  London. 

Louterel,  Andrew,  knight,  359. 

Louth,  county  of,  Uriel,  Ireland, 
serjoanty  of,  391. 

Louthe,  Margery  (de  Wolverton)  wife 
of  Roger  do,  lOL  241,  242. 

,    Nicholas    de,    king's   clerk, 

receiver  of  issues  of  lordships 
of  Ponthieu  and  Montreuil, 
15,    111. 

..."...,  Robert  de,  185,  403. 

,  Roger  de,  101,  163,  242. 

Louthorp.   Sec  Lowthorpe. 

Louthteburgli,  William  de,  43. 

Lovayne,  Lovaigne,  Guy  de,  53. 

,   Margaret  wife  of  Nicholas 

de,  184,  298,  299. 

,  Nicholas  de,  knight,  50,  52, 

53,  177,  178,  184,  188,  271, 
298,  299,  396. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  steward  of  the  lord- 
ships of  Ponthieu  and  Mont- 
reuil, 15. 

Loveday,  John,  166. 

,  Ralph,  496. 

,  Richard,  of  Essex,  176. 

,  Roger,  221. 

Lovel,  Cicely  de  la  Lynde  wife  of 
John,  217. 

,   Ednaund   brother  of   John, 

397. 

,  Isabel  sister  of  John,  397. 

,  John,  217. 

, ,  knight,  338. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    .  .  .  . ,  lord  of  Titch- 

marsh,  378. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  the  elder,  378. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    of   Harlington,    397, 

399. 

son  of  John,  of  Har- 
lington, 397. 

,     Maud,     wife     of     Thomas 

Treweman,  278,  279. 

,  WiUiam,  45. 

Lovesone,  Richard,  coroner  for  co. 
Stafford,  400. 

Lovet,  Clausus  son  of  Thomas,  127. 

Loweches,  Thomas  de,  158. 

Cf.  Luches. 

Lowick,  Lufwyk,  co.  Northampton, 
54. 

Lowolde,  Jolin,  293. 


Lowthorpe,  Louthorp  [co.  YorkJ, 
296. 

Loxley,  Loxlo,  Loxlee,  Robert,  277, 
502,  503,  504. 

Loytyn,  John,  master  of  La  Lau- 
rence of  Wael  by  Calais, 
363. 

Lubeck,  Lubyk  [Germany],  merchant 
of,  442. 

Lubenham,  Lobonham  [co. 

Leicester],  43. 

church  of,  42,  43. 

,  Calewehill  in,  42. 

Luca.    Sec  Lucca. 

Lucas,  Agnes,  211. 

,  Robert,  of  London,  375. 

Lucca,  Luca  [Italy],  merchants  of, 
420. 

Luches,  John,  397. 

Cf.  Loweches. 

Lucy,  Anthony  de,  198,  200,  396. 

,  Geoffrey,  Geoffrey  de,  184. 

, ,  Imight,  471. 

,  Thomas  de,  110. 

, ,  knight,  81,  82,  200. 

Ludford,  Luddeford,  co.  Lincoln, 
452. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  439. 

,  CO.    Salop,    Sheet,    Sete    in, 

129. 

,••••,  Steventon,  Stevyngton 

in,  129. 

Ludlow,  Lodelowe  [co.  Salop],  203, 
281. 

Ludyngton.     See  Liddington. 

Luffenham,  Robert  de,  187. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  kniglit  of  the  shire  of 

Rutland,  169. 

,  Simon,  384. 

Luffincot,  Loghingcote,  co.  Devon, 
73,  443. 

Lufwyk.    See  Lowick. 

Lugwardyn,  Stephen  de,  287. 

Lulham,  Lulleham  [in  Madley,  co. 
Hereford],   281. 

Lullesdon.    See  Lillisdon. 

Lullingstone,  Lillyngston,  Lullyng- 
ston,  Lullyngton,  co,  Kent, 
199. 

,  fee  in,  495. 

,  manor  of,  200. 

LuUok,  William,  chaplain,  365. 

LuUyngston,  Lullyngton.  See  Lul- 
lingstone. 

Lumbard,  Bartholomew,  236. 

Lumbardy.    See  Lombardy. 

Lundethorp.    See  Londonthorpe. 

Lungevilers,  John  de,  32. 

Lurgashall,  Lodegarshale  [co.  Sus- 
sex], manor  of,  375. 


602 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Lury-sur-Arnon,  Lury,  France  [dep. 

Cher],  276. 
Luscote,   Alice  wife  of  William  de, 

352,  353. 

,  Joan  [or  Juliana]  (Arundell) 

daughter  of  William  de,  352, 
353,'  359,  366. 

,    William,    William    de,    81, 

264,  352,  353,  360. 

Lussebon,  Lusshebone,  Lusshebon 
in  Spain.       See  Lisbon. 

Lusteshull,  Lustush\ille,  John  de, 
166. 

,  Philip,  44. 

Lutere,  John,  391. 

Luton,  CO.  Bedford,  Limbury  in, 
350. 

Luton,  William  de,  coroner  for 
Hunts  and  bailiff  of  Hunting- 
don, 30. 

Lutteleye,  Philip  de,  205. 

,  escheator  in  Glou- 
cestershire, 9,  18,  96,  103,  109, 
139,  154,  157,  219,  230,  324, 
329,  330,  342,  347,  352,  353. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Hereford- 
shire, 1,  16,  18,  23,  109,  154, 
220,  248,  346,  438. 

, in  Notts,  17. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Salop,  25,  107, 

129,  135,  139,  154,  338,  342, 
410,  438,  452. 

,   .  .  .  . ,   ....  in  Staffordshire, 

37,  147,  154,  342,  438. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  the  marches  of 

Wales,  16,  154,  268,  346,  352, 

353,  438. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Stafford,  480. 
Luttelton.     See  Littleton  ? 
Lutterworth  [co.  Leicester],  271. 
Lychebarowe.     See  Litchborough. 
Lychebarowe,  John  de,   127,   128. 
Lychefeld.    »See  Lichfield. 
Lychefeld,        Thomas,        physician, 

chantry  for  soul  of,  450. 
Lychet  Matravers,   Mautravers,   co. 

Dorset,  advowson  of,  9. 

,  manor  of,  8. 

Lydeneye,  Roger  de,  203. 

Lydney,     co.     Gloucester,     Purton 

Piryton  in,  18. 
Lye.    See  Leigh. 
Lyght,  Richard,  396. 
Lyghtefot,   Geoffrey,   209. 
Lyle.    See  Insula. 
Lyllyng,  Nicholas,  394. 
Lymbergh,  Adam  de,  canon  of  St. 

Mary,  Lincoln,  350. 
Lymbury.    See  Limbury. 


Lymbury,   Joan  wife   of   Philip  de, 

349.  350. 

,  Philip  de,  knight,  268,  350. 

Lyme  Regis  [co.  Dorset],  bailiffs  of, 

370. 

,  bailiffs  etc.  of,  136. 

Lymford,  Laurence  de,  194. 
Lymington,  Lemyngton  [co.  Hants], 

bailiffs,     customers    etc.     of, 

136. 
Lynchelade.   See  Linslade, 
Lynde,   Cicely  de  la,   wife  of  John 

Lovel,  217. 

,  John  de  la,  248. 

Lyndesele,    Lyndesell,    William    de, 

343. 

, ,  clerk,  172. 

Lyndeselle.  See  Lindsell. 
Lyndheved.  See  Lindeth. 
Lyndhurst  [co.  Hants],  51. 

,  letters  close  dated  at,  239. 

,  manor  of,  44. 

,  writ  dated  at,  344. 

Lyndon.    See  Linton. 

Lyneham,  Reynold  de,  213. 

Lyngefeld.    See  Lingfield. 

Lynlee  [near  Godstone,  co.  Surrey], 

chapel  at,  188. 

wood,  188. 

Lynleve,    Thomas    de,    burgess    of 

"Dunstable,  302. 
Lynn,    Bishops    Lenne,    Lenne    [co. 

Norfolk],   156,  235. 

,  customers  etc.  of,  137. 

,   mayor   and  bailiffs   of,   52, 

91,  137,  407. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,  104. 

,  ship  of,  153. 

,  Lenne  on  either  side  of  the 

port,  mayor  and  bailiffs  of,  52. 
Lynot,  John,  370. 
Lynsheles.     See   Linsheeles. 
Lynton.    See  Linton. 
Lynton,  Walter  de,  268. 
Lyons,    Lyouns,    Richard,    Richard 

de,  350,  466. 
Lyre  [France,  dep.  Eure],  abbot  of, 

106. 
Lysle.    See  Insula. 
Lytel.    See  Litle. 
Lytethiu-ne.    See  Lighthorne. 
Lythe,    co.    York,    parson   of.       See 

Bolton,  John  de. 
Lytherpole.    See  Liverpool. 
Lythum.    See  Upleatham. 
Lytle.    See  Litle. 
Lytlyngton.    See  Littleton. 
Lyvermere.    See  Livermere. 
Lyverpole,     LyverpoU,     LyverpuUe. 
See  Liverpool. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


G03 


M 

Mablothorpe,  Malbertliorp,  co.  Lin- 
coln, n^anor  of,  205,  20G. 

Macchyng,  Simon,  2G7. 

,   ....  de,  hosteler,  93. 

madder,  cargo  of,  316. 

Madey  Mills,  Madymill  in  Martock, 
CO    Somerset,  489. 

Madley,  co.  Hereford,  Lulham  in, 
28L 

Madymill.     See  Madey  Mills. 

Maelionydd,  Melnyth  [co.  Radnar], 
keeper  of  lordship  of,  37  L 

Magdalen  Laver,  Magdeleyn  Laver, 
Maudeleyn  Lauver  [co. 
Essex],  manor  and  advowson 
of,  405,  406. 

Magor  [co.  Monmouthi,  lordship  of, 
352. 

Magot,  William,  364. 

Maidford,  Maideford,  Maydeford, 
Maydesford,  co.  Northamp- 
ton, 307,  434. 

,  Armesle  wood  in,  476. 

Maidstone,  Maydenstan,  Maydestan, 
Maydeston,  co.  Kent,  H,  49, 
68,  84,  173,  175,  261,  365,  461. 

,  hides  tanned  at,  335. 

,  the  Mote  in.   See  Shoford. 

Maikyn.    See  Maykyn. 

Makeneye,  Makkeneye,  Walter  de, 
knight,   208. 

,  William  de,  165. 

Makenhad,  Margaret  (Condy)  wife  of 

William,  445. 
,  William,  445. 

Makerell,  Thomas,  247. 

Makkeneye.    See  Makeneye. 

Malbayn,  merchants  of,  [of  society 
of  Malebaille  ?],  118. 

Malbertliorp.   See  Mablethorpe. 

Malborough,  co.  Devon,  Great 
Bolbury,  Boltebury  in,  436. 

Malbys,  William,    105. 

Maldon,  [co.  Essex],  293,    388. 

baiHffsof,  91,  407. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  customers,  etc,  of,  136. 

,  deed  dated  at,  200. 

,  hospital  of  St.  Giles,  advow- 
son of,  200. 
,  mayor  of,  407. 


Maldon — cont. 

,  quay  otc.  at,  200. 

,  Little  [co.  Essex],  manor  of, 

200. 
Maldon,  Thomas  do,  200,  293. 

,  William  do,  55,  200. 

Maleijaille.     See  Malbayn. 
Malewayn.    Sec  Malwayn. 
Malgraf,  Hugh,   197. 
Mailing,  East,  Estmallyng,  co.  Kent, 

"180. 
Mallyng,    Mallvnges,    John    de,    of 

Walton,''85,  383. 
Malmedon.    Sec  Manowden. 
Malmesbury  [co.  Wilts],  deed  dated 

at,  369. 
Malo  Lacu,  Elizabeth  wife  of  Peter 

de,  356. 
,  Peter  de,  keeper  of  Berwick- 
upon-Tweed,  420. 

,  .  .  .  .,  le  sisme,  355,  356. 

Malore,  John,  of  Winwick,  215. 
Malpas,  Maupas,  John,  merchant  of 

Waterford,  322,  323. 
,   William,   of   West   Braden- 

ham,  289. 
Maltby     le      Marsh,     Malteby     by 

Strubby,  co.  Lincoln,  322. 
Malteby,  John  de,  295. 
Malwayn,  Malewayn,  John,  4,   111. 
,   ....  son  of  John,  tenant  in 

chief,  142,  148. 
,  William,  executor  of  John, 

4,   111. 
Malton,  Old  [co.  York],  prior  of,  340. 
Malton,  John  de,  bailiff  of  Rvedale, 

129. 
,  William  de,  of  Southwark, 

398. 
Malyn,  John,  462,  463. 
Malyns.     See  Molyns. 
Mamchestre.     See  Manchester. 
Mamhead,  Mammehede,  co.  Devon, 

manor  of,  294. 
Man,   Mann,   Isle   of,   lord  of.      See 

Monte  Acuto,  William  de. 
Manard,  Herman,  441,  442,  444. 
Mancliester,   Mamchestre   [co.    Lan- 
caster], deed  dated  at,  474. 

,  lord  of.  See  Warre,  lloger  la. 

,  places  named  in,  473,  474. 

Mandyez,  Peter  Arnald  de,  citizen  of 

Bayonne,  407,  408. 
Maners,    Alina   wife   of   Robert   de, 

320,  337. 
,  John  son  of  Robert  de,  320, 

337. 
Manesbrigge.    Sec  Mansljridge. 
Manewden,     Malmedon,     Manudon, 

CO.  Essex,  fees  in,  496, 


604 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Manfee,  Richard,  188,  272. 
Manfeld,  Thomas  do,  286. 
Manfield,    Manfeld    in    Kichemond- 

shire   [co.    York],   manor   of, 

210. 
Mann.    See  Man. 

Manningtree,  Manytre,  co.  Essex,  11. 
Mannyng,  John,  clerk,  166,  173. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  of  Newnham  Murren, 

chaplain,   166. 
Mansbridge,  Manesbrigge  [parish  of 

South  Stoneham],  co.  Hants, 

manor  of,  44,  51. 
Mansel.    See  Maunsel. 
Manthorpe,     Man  thorp     [in     Gran- 
tham], CO.  Lincoln,  420. 
Manton,  William  de,  clerk,  267. 
,    .  .  .  . ,  keeper  of  the  king's 

wardrobe,  116. 
Manudon.    See  Manewden. 
Manyngford,  Roger  de,  164,  184. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Dorset,   273. 
Manyngham,  Thomas,  383. 
Manytre.    A^ee  Manningtree. 
Mapeltrestede.      See  Maplestead. 
Maplescompe.     See  Mappiscombe. 
Maplestead,     Mapeltrestede,     Great, 

CO.  Essex,  43,  433. 
,    Mapeltrestede,    Little,    co. 

Essex,  43. 
Mappiscombe,  Maplescompe  [parish 

of  Kingsdown,  co   Kent],  185. 
March,  earl  of.     See  Mortuo  Mari, 

Roger  de. 
Marden,  Maurdyn,  co.  Hereford,  1. 

,  Merden  [co.  Kent],  209. 

,  Muryden  [in  Godstone,  co. 

Surrey],  manor  of,  298. 
Mare,  John  de,  of  Genoa,  ship's  proc- 
tor, 316. 

, de  la,  466. 

,   Robert   de    la,   knight,   51, 

166. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Wilts,  168,  273. 

,  Thomas  de  la,  92,  165,  166. 

Mareschall,     Mareschal,     Mareshall, 

Marschall,    John,     237,     342, 

373. 
,  Nicholas,  of  Wold  Newton, 

428. 

,  Robert,  388,  488. 

Maresfield,    Maresfeld,    co.    Sussex, 

manor  of,  167. 
Mareshall.   See  Mareschall. 
Margaret,  Roger  son  of,  285. 
Margate,  Mergate  [co.  Kent],  bailiffs 

of,   91,    137. 
,   customers  etc.   of,    137. 


.  Margrove    Park,    Maugreypark,    in 

Skelton,  co.  York,  284. 
Mariot,  Reynold,  166. 
Marke,  Roger,  285. 
markets,  284,  456,  460. 
Markham,    West,    I^ittle   Markham, 

CO.  Nottingham,  444. 
Marlborough,         Marlebergh,         co. 

Wilts,  408. 

,  letters  close  dated  at,  139. 

Marmion,      Marmyon,      Marmyoun, 

Maud  wife  of  Robert,  knight, 

43. 

,  Philip  de,  170. 

,  William,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Lincoln,  169. 
Marnham,  co.  Nottingham,  173. 
Marny,  Robert,  171. 
,  Robert,  Robert  de,  knight, 

168,    196,   197,  201,  202,  203, 

207,  294,  468. 
Marples,  John,  coroner  for  co.  York, 

245. 
marriage  covenants,  263. 
Marschall.   See  Mareschall. 
marshall,      the      countess.  See 

Brotherton,     Mary    wife     of 

Thomas  de. 

,  the  earl,  497,  498, 

Marshwood,         Mersshwode,         co. 

Dorset,  8. 
Marske,  Mersk,  Mersk  in  Clyveland, 

CO.  York,  311. 
,  assignment  of  dower  in,  284- 

286. 

manor  of,  295,  307. 

,  mill  in,  286. 

,  places  named  in,  284. 

,  Redcar  in,  284,  286. 

Msfston,  Merschton  [co.  Gloucester], 

161. 
,  Long,  Longemerschton  [co . 

Gloucester],   161. 
Marsworth,   Masseworth   [co.   Buck- 
ingham], 394. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  394. 

,  manor  of,  394. 

Martel,  Robert,  384. 

Marteleye.    See  Martley. 

Martin,   Marton  by  Thorneton,  co. 

Lincoln,  322. 
Martin,  Simon  son  of,  de  Holbeche, 

277. 
Martley,  Marteleye  [co.  AVorcester], 

church  of,  125. 
Martock,     Mcrtok     [co.     Somerset], 

mills  in,  named,  489. 
Marton,  Merton,  co.  Lancaster,  297. 

[CO.  York],  105. 

,  Tolesby  in,  105. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


605 


Marton — cont. 

See  Martin. 

Marton,  Robert  do,  notary,  393. 
Martrowordy,    Martroworthi.        See 

Martyr  Worthy. 
Martyn,  John,  170. 

,  Robert,  knight,  399. 

,  Sir  WiUiam,  239. 

,   .....  lioritage  of,  344. 

Martyr        Wortliy,        Martrowordy, 

Martrewortlii      [co.      Hants], 

parson       of.         See      Moins, 

Nicholas. 
Maryn,  John  do,  467. 
mass,  proclamation  at,  202. 
Masseworth.    See  Marsworth. 
Massyngham,  John  de,  336. 

, ,  clerk,  478. 

,  Simon  de,  380. 

Matham,  Hamelin,  of  SmTey,  186. 
,  Margaret  wife  of  Sampson 

de,  170. 
,     Sampson,  Sampson  de,  of 

Sawbridgeworth,  170,  186. 
Matseferra,  Bartholomew,  414. 
Maudeleyn  Lauver.     See  Magdalen 

Laver. 
Mauduyt,  John,  11. 

,  Juliana,  wife  of  John,  11. 

Maughanby,    Merghanby    [in    Glas- 

sonby,  parish  of  Addingham], 

CO.  Cumberland,  36. 
Maugrej'park.     See  Margrove  Park. 
Maulay,  Thomas  de,  163. 
Maule'  Thomas,  431. 
Mauncel.    See  Maunsel. 
Maundeville,      Alice      daughter      of 

Robert,  436,  437. 
,   Elizabeth   wife   of  Thomas 

de,  294. 

,  Robert,  436. 

,  Thomas  de,  knight,  168,  174, 

196-198,  201-203,  294. 
,  ....  son  of  Thomas  de,  202, 

294. 
Maunsel,  Mansel,  Mauncel,  Edmund, 

60. 

,  Elizabeth  wife  of  Walter,  21. 

,  John,  provost  of  Beverley, 

446. 
,  Robert,  of  London,  mercer, 

398,  490. 
Maunsfeld,    John    de,    king's    clerk, 

clerk    of    works    within    and 

without    Nottingham    castle, 

419. 
Mauny,  lord  of,  496. 
,  Walter  de,  lord  of  Chepstow 

(Strogoil),  371. 
Maupas.   See  Malpas. 


Maurdyn.    See  Marden. 

Maurdyn,  John,  133. 

Mautravers,  Agnos  wife  of  John,  8, 

9,  1.').'),  171,  180,  181. 

John,  462,  498. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Dorset,  480. 
,  . .  .  .,  the  elder,  9,  154,  155, 

180,  181. 

,  .  .  .  .,  the  younger,  154,  180. 

Maxtoko  [co.  Warwick],  161. 

castle,  deed  dated  at,  161. 

,  deed  dated  at,  162. 

,  manor  of,  162. 

places  named  in,  162. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,    161, 

162. 

,  Robert  prior  of,  161. 

,  water-mill  at,  162. 

May,  John,  69. 
Maydeford.    See  Maidford. 
Maydelot,  Robert,  463. 
Maydenstan.   See  Maidstone. 
Maydesford.    See  Maidford. 
Maydestan,  Maydeston.     See  Maid- 
stone. 
Mayheu,    Richard,    of    Desborough, 

42,  43. 
Maykyn,  Maikyn,  John,  444,  481. 
,  Maurice,  of  Lincoln,  clerk, 

414. 
Maynard,  Stephen,  387. 
McKenegan.    See  Newcastle. 
Meath,  county  of,  Ireland,  serjeanty 

of,  391. 
Medbom-ne,  Medburn  [co.  Somerset], 

307. 
Mede,  John,  489. 
,  Michael  atte,  of  New  Sarum, 

341. 
.......  Valentine  atte,  of  Bramdean, 

406. 
Medeford.     See  Mitford. 
Medocroft,  Roger  de,  of  Lancashire, 

297. 
Meignille,  Hugh  de,  knight,  18. 

,  Thomas  son  of  Hugh  de,  18. 

Cf.  Menyll. 

Melborne,     William,     William     de, 

clerk,  240,  241,  478. 

Cf.  Milboiu-ne. 

Melburnport.     See  Milborne  Port. 
Melchet  park,  co.  Wilts,  415. 
Melcombe,  Melecombe  [co.   Dorset], 

advowson  of,  184. 
Horsey,  Upmelecombe  [co. 

Dorset],  184. 

,  manor  of,  184. 

Regis,  Melcombe  [co.  Dorset], 

baUifTs  of,  91,  137,  376. 


606 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Melcombe  Regis — cont. 
,  customers  etc.  of,  137, 

376. 
Melcote.  SeeMilcote. 
Meldyng,  Meldyngg.    See  Milden. 
Melecombe.     See  Melcombe. 
Meleman,  William,  of  Watford,  263, 

264. 
Meleun.   See  Melun. 
Melford,  co.  Suffolk,  222,  264,  279. 
,  Kentwell  in,  164,  222,  224, 

264. 
Melford,  John,  of  Kent,  279. 
Melhoddes,  ferry  of.   at  Redcar,  co. 

York,  286. 
Melkyn,  Emma,  neive,  286. 

,  John,  neif,  286. 

Melle,    Maud    (de    Karl  el)    wife    of 

Robert  atte,  338,  339,  363. 

,  Robert  atte,  338,  339,  363. 

Mellere,  John,  312. 

Melling,  co.  Lancaster,  Farleton  in, 

145. 

,  Hornby  in.     See  Hornby. 

Mails,  CO.  Somerset,  parson  of.     See 

Shepton,  Thomas  de. 
Melnyth.    See  Maelionydd. 
Melton,  Robert  de,  clerk,  384. 

,  William  de,  knight,  248,  473. 

Melton    Mowbray,    Melton,    Melton 

Moubray  [co.  Leicester],  501. 

,  deed  dated  at,  501. 

,  Spytelgate  in,  501. 

Melun,  Meleun  [France,  dep.   Seine 

et  Marne],  viscount  of.     See 

John  count  of  Tankarville. 
Melyn,  Walter,  king's  clerk,  386. 
Menyll,  Elizabeth  de,  455. 

Cf.  Meignille. 

Meon,  West,  Westmune  [co.  Hants], 

491. 

,   deed  dated  at,   492. 

Merbot,  William,  289. 

Merden.    See  Marden. 

Mere,  Nicholas  atte,  66. 

Meres,  Roger  de,  justice  of  assize   in 

Buckinghamshire,  454. 
,    .  .  .  . ,    ....    in   Cambridge- 
shire, 265. 
Mergate.    See  Margate. 
Merghanby.    See  Maughanby. 
Merhyth,  Thomas,  470. 
Meriet,  Merj^et,   George  do,  kniglit, 

323. 

,  Isabel  wife  of  George  de,  323. 

,  John,  435,  436. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  John  de,  knight,  52, 

65,  175,  477,  491. 
' ,  ....  son  of  John  de,  20,  477, 

491. 


Mering,  Meryng  [in  Girton],  co.  Not- 
tingham, 444. 

manor  of,  444. 

Merkes    in    Raydon,     Roydon,    co. 

Suffolk,  manor  of,  186. 
Merlee,  John  de,  320. 
Merlyng,  Robert  de,  129. 
Merre,  Geoffrey,   133. 

,  William  de,  le,  133. 

Merridge,  Merygge  [in  Spaxton,  co. 

Somerset],  manor  of,  47. 
Merryfield,  Murefeld  [in  Ilton],   co. 

Somerset,  manor  of,  435. 
Mers,  Roger  de,  of  Kirton,  277. 
Merschton.    See  Marston. 
Merseye,  John,  clerk,  268. 
Mershton.    See  Merston. 
Mersk,    Mersk    in    Clyveland.       See 

Marske. 
Mersk,  Alan  de,  285. 

,  John  de,  282,  283. 

,  Thomas  de,  210. 

Merssh,  William  atte,  294. 
Mersshton.    See  Merston. 
Merstham,  co.  Surrey,  178. 

Albury,  Aldebury  in,   178. 

,    parson   of.       See   Neylond, 

Thomas. 
Merston,       Mershton,       Mersshton, 
Emma  wife  of  John  de,  330. 

,  John  de,  47,  330,  466. 

,  Richard,  88. 

,  William  de,  clerk,  278. 

Mertok.    See  Martock. 

Merton  [co.  Surrey],  prior  of,  63. 

,  ....  and  convent  of,  500. 

See  Marton. 

Merton,  Richard  de,  knight,  191. 

,  Walter  de,  of  Basingstoke, 

454. 

Mervyn,  Henry,  391. 

Meryet.   See  Meriet. 

Merygge.    See  Merridge. 

Meryng.    See  Mering. 

Meryng,   Elizabeth  wife  of  Thomas 
de,  444. 

,  Francis  son  of  Thomas  de, 

444. 

,  Thomas  de,  444. 

Meryngton,  Walter  de,  282. 

,  William  de,  of  York,  358. 

Messager,  William,  267. 

Mettone,  William  de,  69. 

Meuryk,  William,   parson  of  Fram- 
lingham,  379. 

Mewe,  Walter,  knight,  491. 

Michel,  John,  98,  164,  378. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  London,  122. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  vintner,  44. 

Richard,  391. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


0)07 


Miclicldevro,  Tliomas,  of  Hants,  204. 
Michol  Grove,  Muchogi-ove  [parish  of 

Clapham],  co.  Sussex,  5. 

Sutton.     See  Sutton  Vony. 

Micklefield,  Mikelfold  [in  Sherburn], 

CO.  York,  360. 
Mickloton,  Mukelton,  co.  Gloucester, 

161. 
Middelburg,  Middelburgh  [Zeeland], 

442. 
Middelclaydon.  See      Claydon, 

Middle. 
Middelesburgh.     See  Middlesbrough. 
Middelneye,      Elizabeth      wife      of 

Ralph  de,  5,  6. 

,  Ralph  de,  .5,  6. 

,  knight,  489. 

Middelton.      See  Middleton,  Milton 

Malsor. 
Middelton,    Middelynton,    Midelton, 

Christiana   wife   of   John   de, 

243,  244. 
,    John,    John   de,    243,    244, 

470. 
,   .....  adherent  of  the  Scots, 

426. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  chaplain,  475. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and    justice     of     oyer      and 

terminer  in  Bedfordshire,  467. 
,    .  .  .  . ,  keeper  of  victuals  at 

Calais,   121,  236. 

,   .  .  .  . ,   ....  at  Sangatte,  9. 

,  Richard  son  of  John  de,  the 

elder,  190. 
,  William  son  of  John  de,  of 

Willesden,    190. 
Middlesbrough,  Middelesburgh, 

court  of,  for  search  of  river 

Tees,  286. 

,  toll  of,  286. 

Middlesex,  county  of,  55,  58,  63,  93, 

162,  185,  188,   192,   199,  397, 

471,   473,   477. 
alnager    in.        See    Hervy, 

William. 
,  escheator  in.    See  Tye,  John 

de. 
knights  of  the  shire  of,  169, 

481. 

,  sheriff  of,  68. 

,  subsidies  in,  282,  349,  381, 

484. 
Middleton,  Middelton  [co.  Warwick], 

manor  of,  302. 
,  North,  Northmiddelton,  co. 

Northumberland,    147. 
,  South,  Southmidelton  under 

Chevyot,     co.     Northumber- 
land, manor  of,  438. 


Midilton.    See  Middelton,  Milton. 
Midhurst    [co.    Sussex],    211,    415, 

427,  436. 
Mikelfeld.    See  Micklofield. 
Milborne     Port,     Me!  burn  port,     co. 

Somerset,  farm  of,  454. 
Milbourno,  Roger,  195. 

Cf.  Melbornc. 

Milcote,  Melcote  [parish  of  Weston- 
on-Avon],       co.       Warwick, 
manor  of,  83. 
Mildecumbe,    John   de,    of    Oxford- 
shire, 67. 
Milden,     Mcldyng,     Meldyngg     [co. 

Suffolk],  manor  of,  186. 
Mildenhall,  Mildenhale  [co.  Suffolk], 

279. 
Mildperokote,  co.  York,  361. 
Mile  End,  Mileende  in  Stepney,  co. 
Middlesex,  491. 

,  deed  dated  at,  491. 

Miles,  Myles,  Adam,  163. 

,     John,     of     Clixby,     king's 

clerk,  389. 

,  Walter,  chaplain,  248. 

Milford  [co.   Southampton],   Efford, 
Ebbeford  in,  62,  389. 

,    Pennington,  Penyton 

in,  44,  51,  62,  163,  164. 

[in  Kirkby-cum-Milford],  co. 

Y^ork,  361. 
Milford,  John,  486. 
Millbrook,  Mullebrok,   co.   Bedford, 

271. 
Mill  Holme,  Milnholme,  in   Skelton, 

CO.  York,  283. 
mills,    19,    147,    162,    190,   284,   286, 
287,  354,  357,  360,  368,  378, 
424,  429,   438,  452,   475. 

,  fulling,  20,  32. 

,    water,    32,    270,    439,    475, 

489. 

,  wind,  463. 

Milnholme.   See  Mill  Holme. 
Milton,  Midelton,  co.  Hants,  manor 
of,  44,  51. 

,  CO.  Kent,  Ore  in,  230,  231. 

Malsor,  Middelton,  co.  North- 
ampton, 435. 

,  advowson  of,  434. 

Mimms,  North,  Northmymmes,  co. 
Hertford,   163. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  deed  dated  at,  163. 

Minchinhampton,  Munchenhampton, 
CO.  Gloucester,  9,  19. 

,  lady  of.  See  Caen,  abbess  of. 

mines,  284,  286. 
Minorite  friars.  See  Friars. 
Minot,      Thomas,      archbishop      of 
Dublin,  44,   181. 


608 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Minster,  co.  Kent,  Shepnej'    Castle, 

Risshedon,     Risshyndon     in, 
121,  131. 
Mirfeld,  William  de,  42,  264,  466. 

, clerk,  377. 

Miriden,  John  de,  470. 

,  Margerj'  wife  of  John  de, 

470. 
Miriweder,  Alice,  391. 

,  John,  391. 

Mistley,  co.  Essex,  Dickley,  Dykelee 

in,  496. 
Mitford,   CO.   Northumberland,   Aid- 
worth  in,  147. 
Mitford,  Medeford,  Hugh,  Hugh  de, 

173,  176,  477. 
,   John,   John   de,   citizen   of 

London,  265. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  sheriff  of  London,  82, 

173,  192. 
Miton.   See  Myton. 
Miton,  Sir  Thomas  de,  vicar  of  the 

choir    of    St.    Peter's,    York, 

200,  201. 
Mitton  [cos.   Lancaster  and  York], 

466. 
Moat  (farm),  la  Mote  [in   Iden],  co. 

Sussex,  manor  of,  289. 
Modford,  Thomas,  395. 
Modyngdenne.     See  Mottingden. 
Mohaut,  William,  478. 
Mohun,    Mohoun,  John  de,  knight, 

42,  269. 
,    .  .  .  . ,  lord  of  Dunster,   42, 

175. 
,     John     son     of     Reynold, 

coroner  for  Cornwall,  129. 
Moigne,  Sir  Henry  le,  knight,  62. 

,  Thomas,  knight,  5. 

Mokkyng.  John  de,  398. 

,  Thomas  de,  fisher,  of  I^on- 

don,  58. 
Molineux,   Molyneux,   Joan  wife  of 

Thomas  de,  145,  319. 
,   Thomas,  Thomas  de,    145, 

319. 

Cf.  Molyns. 

MoUand     Champion,    Sarazyn,    co. 

Devon,  81. 
,  Mollond,  Nether,  co.  Devon, 

81. 
,   Mollond,   Over,  co.   Devon, 

81. 
Molton,   North,   co.   Devon,   Flitton 

in,  81. 
Molyneux.     See  Molineux. 
Molyns,  Malyns,  Egidia,  Giles,   wife 

of  John  de,  321,  406. 

Henry,  the  younger,  166. 

John,  John  de,  127,  32L 


Molyns,  John — cont. 

, ,  knight,  385,  406. 

,  ....  son  of  John  de,  321. 

,    Margery    (Bacon)  wife     of 

William  de,  260. 
,  Richard  son  of  Wiliam  de, 

406. 

,  William  de,  260. 

, ,   knight,  368,  400,  405, 

406. 
,    William    son   of   John   de, 

321. 

,  ....  son  of  William  de,  406. 

Cf.  Molineux. 

Monboucher,     Monbocher,     Mount- 

burghcher,    Bertram,   knight, 

55. 

,  Isabel  wife  of  George  de,  15. 

Nicholas,  32,  55. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  son  of  Isabel  de,  15. 

Mondeford.    See  Mundford. 
Mondeslegh,  William  de,  297,  298. 
Monek,  Richard,  44,  50. 
Monemuth.    See  Monmouth, 
money,     carriage     of,     out    of    the 

realm,  90. 
,    exclusion   of   foreign,    404, 

405. 
farm  of  exchange  of,  29,  79, 

290. 

,  Lowys  groats,  441. 

,    scarcity   of,    in   exchequer, 

120. 
,  the  king's,  master  of.     See 

Barde,  Gautron  de. 
,....,  warden  of.  See  Thorpe, 

John  de. 
Mongomery,     Mongomory,      Philip, 

173,   174. 
Mongwell,    Mungewell    by   Walvng- 

ford,  CO.  Oxford,  166,  173. 
.......  fee  in,  496. 

Monkelane,  William  de,  of  the  order 

of  St.  Augustine,  295,  296. 
Monks       Kirkeby.        See        Kirby, 

Monks. 
Monks  Risborough.   See  Risborough, 

Monks. 
Monkton     Farleigh,     Farleyo     [co. 

Wilts],  prior  of,  94. 
Monmouth,    Monemuth    [co.    Mon- 
mouth], lord  of.      See  John 

duke  of  Lancaster. 
Monnington,     Monynton,     Monyton 

[co.  Hereford],  237,  238. 
Monsleye,    See  Munsley. 
Monte    Acuto,    Mountagu,    Edward 

de,  tenant  in  chief,  216. 

,  .....  .  .  .  . ,  heir  of,  451. 

,  John,  264. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


609 


Monte  Acuto,  John — cont. 

,  .  ,  , . ,  brother  of  WiUiatn  do, 

knight,  489. 

,  John  de,  knight,  182,  183. 

,    Wilham   de,   earl   of   Salis- 
bury, of  New  Salisbury,  113, 

123,  257,  430,  460,  465,  498. 
,    .  .  .  . ,    .  .  .  . ,  investiture  of, 

112. 
, ,  lord  of  the  Isle 

of  Man,  205,  206,  489. 
Montgomery,    Monte    Gomery    [co. 

Montgomery],  lord  of,  371. 
Montjoie,  Monyoie  [Rhenish 

Prussia],  lord  of.    See  William 

duke  of  Juhers. 
Montpilers,  Mounpellers,  Joan  wife 

of  John  de,  54. 

,  John,  John  de,  54,  176. 

Montreuil,  Montstrolle  [dep.  Pas-de- 
Calais],  lordship  of,  receiver 

of    issues    of.       See    Louthe, 

Nicholas  de. 
,     .  .  . . ,    steward    of.        See 

Lovayne,  Nicholas  de. 
Mont  St.  Michel  (in  periculo  maris) 

[Normandv],    abbot    of,     34, 

105. 
Montstrolle.   See  Montreuil. 
Montvyron,  John  de,  of  Essex,  471. 
Monynton.     See  Monnington. 
Monyoie.    See  Montjoie. 
Monyton.    See  Monnington. 
Monyton,   Hugh  de,   knight  of   the 

shire  of  Hereford,    168,   273, 

480. 
Monyu,  John,  190. 
Moor  Hall,   la  More,   Morehalle   in 

Writtle,  CO.  Essex,  manor  of, 

55,  66,  381,  382,  487. 
Moorlinch,  co.  Somerset,  Catcott  in, 

144,  166,  220. 

,  Edington,  Edyngdon  in,  166. 

Moors,    West,    La   More    [parish   of 

West  Parley],  co.  Dorset,  8. 
Mora,  John  de,  133. 

Cf.  More. 

Moraunt,  Ellen  wife  of  Thomas,  138, 

139. 

Thomas,  138. 

,  knight,  178. 

William,  384. 

Morden,      East,      Estmordon      [co. 

Dorset],  manor  of,  8,  9. 
Mordon,     Moredon,     Alice    wife    of 

Simon  de,  398. 

Simon  de,  280. 

,  mayor  of  London,  493. 

, ,  .  .  .  . ,  and  escheator  in 

London,  439,  447,  450,  452. 


Mordon,  Simon  do — cont. 

, aherifT  of  London,  82, 

173,  192. 
,     .  .  .  . ,    stockfishmonger    of 

London,   398. 

,  Thomas  de,  164. 

More,  la.  See  Moor  Hall ;  Moors,  West. 
More,  Moure,  Adam  atte,  375,  389, 

399. 
John,  376. 

de  la,  276. 

Nicholas  son  of  William  de 

la,  55,  381,  382,  487,  488. 
Roger,  466. 
Thomas,  81,  232,  233. 
atte,  45,  397,  471,  472, 

473,  474. 

of  Sussex,  163. 

de,  225. 

de  la,  84,  466. 

Walter  atte,  330. 
William   atte,    escheator   in 

Leicestershire,  358,  359,  411, 

426,  438,  454. 
,     .  .  .  . ,     ....     in    Warwick- 
shire, 438. 

Cf.  Mora. 

Moreaux.    See  Morieux. 

Moredon.    See  Mordon. 

Morohall  by  Alcester,  Agnes  wife  of 

John  de,  71. 

,  John  de,  71,  72. 

Thomas   son  of  John 

de,  72. 
Morehalle.    See  Moor  Hall. 
Morehalle,  Morhalle,  John  atte,  175. 
,    Thomas    de    la,    rector    of 

Quinton,  68. 
Moreton,  Mourton  [co.  Dorset],  375. 
,    North,    Northmortone    [co. 

Berks],   191. 
Morf  forest,  co.  Salop,  forestership 

of,  25. 

,  regard  of,  56. 

Morgannwg,  Morgannon  [co. 

Glamorgan],    lord    of.        See 

Despenser,  Edward  le. 
Morhalle.    See  Morehalle. 
Morice,  Moryce,  Thomas,  of  London, 

68. 

,  William,  of  Kent,  372. 

Moriceby,  Moryceby ,  Christopher  de, 

403. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Cumberland,   273. 
Morieux,   Moreaux,   Moryeux,  Mur- 

reaux,  Thomas  de,  233. 

,  knight,  279,  382. 

,    .  . . . ,    ....    of  the  shire  of 

Norfolk,  169,  480. 

E  39 


610 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Moringthorpe.      See  Mornirigthorpe. 
Morlay,  Robert  de,  knight,  318. 
Morle,  William  de,  knight,  377. 
,    .  .  .  . ,    marshal    of   Ireland, 

14,  15. 
Morningthorpe,    Moringthorpe    [co. 

Norfolk],  378. 
Morpeth,       co.       Northumberland, 

Shilvington  in,  147. 

,  Twizle,  Twysell  in,  147. 

Mortagne,    Morteyn    [France,    dep. 

Orne],  dean  of,  alien,  317. 
Morteyn,  Edmund,  342. 

,  Joan  de,  170. 

,  John,  knight,  387. 

Mortimers     alias     Shrambroke     by 

Clyve    [in   Cliff e],    co.    Kent, 

fee  in,  495. 
miortmain,  alienations  to,  451. 

,  statute  of.     See  statutes. 

Mortmeer.   See  Mortuo  Mari. 
Morton,  Robert  de,    keeper  of  Clip- 
stone  manor,  432. 
,    .  .  .  . ,   keeper  of  Sherwood 

forest,  429. 
, knight  of  the  shire  of 

Nottingham,   169,  273. 

,  William  de,  192. 

Mortuo  Mari,  Mortmeer,  Mortymer, 

Agnes         (de        Hastynges), 

daughter    of    Roger    de,    of 

Wigmore,  28. 
,   Edward   son   of   Roger  de. 

earl  of  March,  219. 
,    Hugh    de,    knight    of    the 

shire  of  Salop,  168. 

,  Isabel  de,  498. 

,  Philippa  wife  of  Roger  de, 

countess  of  March,   110,  219, 

422. 
,  Robert,  Robert  de,  knight 

of  the  shire  of  Norfolk,   169, 

273. 
,  Roger  de,  earl  of  March,  32. 

219. 
,      .  .  .  . ,      .  .  .  . ,     founder     of 

Clatford  priory,   419. 
, , heir  of,  158,   232, 

233,  293,  340,  419,  423. 
,  Thomas  son  of  Constantine 

de,  265. 

,  Walter,  164,  399. 

Moryce.    See  Morice. 
Moryceby.    See  Moriceby. 
Moryeux.    See  Morieux. 
Moryn,  John,  escheator  in  Notting- 
hamshire, 423. 

Simon,  1 62. 

Mose.    See  Moze. 
Moselay,  Adam,  383. 


Moselee,  Thomas,  373. 

Mosket.    See  Musket. 

Mot,  John,  of  Fobbing,  323. 

Mot',  Roger,  of  Kent,  373,  374. 

Mote,  la.   See  Moat. 

,    the,    in    Maidstone.        See 

Shoford. 
Motelowe,     Henry     de,     justice     of 

assize  and  gaol  delivery,  22. 
Mottesfonte,    John    de,    farmer    of 

subsidy,  204,  282,  381,  484. 
Mottingden,     Modyngdenne     priory 

[co.  Kent],  minister  and  con- 
vent of,  45,  46. 
Moubray.    See  Mowbray. 
Moulton,  Multon,  Multon  in  Holand, 

CO.  Lincoln,  81. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  deed  dated  at,  81. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  469. 

,  Multon  [co.  Norfolk],  378. 

,  Multon  [co.  Northampton], 

the  king's  park  of,  keeper  of. 

See  Wake,  Hugh  de. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  siarvey  of,  348. 

Moumbray.    See  Mowbray. 
Mounchesni,  John  de,  knight,  163. 
Mounester.    See  Mimster. 
Mounpellers.   See  Montpilers. 
Mouns,  Nicholas,  chaplain,  484. 
,     .  .  .  . ,     parson    of    Martyr 

Worthy,  484,  485. 
Mount,  parish  of  Elham,  co.  Kent, 

manor  of,  65. 
Mount,  Robert,  66. 

, of  Dartford,  69. 

,  Thomas,  clerk,  184. 

Mountagu.    See  Monte  Acuto. 
Mountburghcher.     See  Monboucher. 
Mounteney,  Mountenay,  Mounteny, 

Cicely  wife  of  John  de,   55, 

66,  381,  382,  488. 
John  de,   55,   66,   381,  382, 

488. 

John  de,  55,  66,  381,  382. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight,  163. 

,  Robert  son  of  John  de,  163. 

,  Theobald  de,  19,  28. 

,  Thomas  de,  300. 

Mom-e.    See  More. 

Mourholm   [parish   of  Warton],   co. 

Lancaster,  manor  of,  59. 
Mourton.    See  Moreton. 
Mowbray,      Moubray,      Moumbray, 

Alexander,  210. 
,  John,  John  de,  45,  57,  70, 

176,  192,  212,  252. 
,    .  .  .  . ,    justice    of   assize   in 

Cornwall,  166. 
,....,....    in  Devon,  73,  74, 

264. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


611 


Mowbray,  John,  justice  of  assizo — 

cont, 
, in  Somerset,  73, 

74. 
,   .  .  .  . ,   ....   in  Staffordshire, 

311. 
,   justice  of  the  Bench, 

99,  180. 

,   ,  knipht,  43,  210,  343. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  lord  of  Axholme,  295, 

329. 
son  of  John,  lord  of 

Axholme   and    liramber,    45, 

46. 
Mowthorpe,    Multhorp    [in    Teiring- 

ton],  CO.  York,  357. 
Mowyn,  William,  chaplain,  393. 
Moze,     Mose     [in     Beaumont-ciim- 

Moze,  CO.  Essex],  Henry  par- 
son of,  391. 
Muchegrove.    See  Michel  Grove. 
Mukelton.    See  Mickleton. 
Mulbarton,      Mulkeberton,      Mulke- 

breton,     co.    Norfolk,    dower 

8.ssigned  at,  311. 

,  leetof,  312. 

,  manor  of,  311. 

,  places  named  in,  311,  312. 

Muleward,  William,  of  Northampton- 
shire, 377. 
Mulkeberton,      Mulkebreton.         See 

Mvilbarton. 
MuUebrok.    See  Millbrook. 
Mulsho,  William  de,  clerk,  92. 
,   .  .  .  . ,    .  .  .  . ,  chamberlain  of 

the  exchequer,   124. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  dean  of  the  free  chapel 

of  St.  Martin  le  Grand,  I.on- 

don,  294. 
Multhorp.    See  Mowthorpe. 
Multon.    See  Moulton. 
Multon,  John  de,  396. 

, ,  knight,  274. 

,    Walter   de.    chaplain,    298, 

299. 

, clerk,  211. 

,  William  de,  bailiff  of  Croy- 
don, 456. 
Mulyk,    Herman    de,     of     Almayn, 

363. 
Mumppyng,  John,  313. 

,  William,  313. 

Munchenhampton.        See    Minchin- 

hamptori. 
Mundford,  Mondeford,  co.  Norfolk, 

fee  in,  497. 
Mungewell    by    Walyngford.        See 

MongAvell. 
Munsley,    Monsleye,    co.    Hereford, 
.     248. 


Munster,   Moimester,   Ireland,   post- 
ponement of  pleas  in,  63. 
Munt',  Thomas,  of  Wykham,  clerk, 

384. 
murage,  443. 

Murefeld.    See  Merryfield. 
Muriet,  John  de,  knight,  205. 
Murreaux.    See  Morieux. 
Muryden.    See  Marden. 
MusbroTin,  William,  491. 
Muschance,  Thomas,  195.  ^ 

Musgrave,  John,  357. 

,  ....  son  of  John,  357. 

,  Margaret  wife  of  John,  357. 

,    Thomas    de,    knight,     192, 

272. 

, ,  the  father,  210. 

Musket.  Mosket,  Gerard,  389. 
Muskham,    Robert    de,    clerk,    195, 

270,  277,  278,  291,  310,  389, 

464,  489. 
Mussynden,   Thomas   de,   knight   of 

the    shire     of     Buckingham, 

168. 
Muswell  [parish  of  Piddington],  co, 

Oxford,     230. 
Muston,   Pudelmusterton  [parish  of 

Puddlehinton,  co.  Dorset],  93. 
Myles.   See  Miles. 
Myton,    Miton    [in    Kingston-upon- 

Hull],  CO.  York,  245. 


N 


Nafferton,  co.  York,  57. 

,  manor  of,  140. 

Naffreton,  Margaret  wife  of  Wil- 
liam de,  160. 

,  William  de,  160. 

Naillyngherst  Naylyngherst,  Nay- 
lynghurst,  Richard  de,  43, 
200. 

,  Robert  de,  11,  243. 

,    ,    clerk,    43,    200,    372, 

491. 

,  Thomas,  491. 

Nanscuvel,  John,  of  Cornwall,    384. 

Nantwich,  Wych  Malbank,  Man- 
banc,  Maubank,  co.  Chester, 
barony  of,   378. 

,  indenture  made  at,  378. 

Narberth,  Nerbert  [co.  Pembroke], 
keeper  of  lordship  of,  371. 


612 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Narford,     Nicholas    de,     of     Lynn, 

235. 
Nasshe,  Richard  de  la,  294. 

,  Roger  atte,  345. 

, de,  281. 

Nassyngton,  Thomas  de,  146. 

Naungle.    See  Nongle. 

Naunton,     John     de,     deputy      of 

marshal  of  Ireland,  15. 

,  Thomas  de,  knight,  106. 

Navan,  Novan  [co.  Meath],  Ireland, 

423. 

,  manor  of,  232,  293. 

Navestock,   Navestoke   [co.   Essex], 

deed  dated  at,  405. 
Nax,  Simon  atte,  188,  387. 
Naylyngherst,    Naylynghurst.       See 

Naillyngherst. 
Neal,  William,  burgess  of  Dunstable, 

302. 

Cf.  Neel. 

Neasden,  Nesedon,  parish  uf  Willes- 

den,  CO.  Middlesex,  190. 
Neel,  Richard,  45. 

,  Robert,  of  Kent,  302. 

Cf.  Neal. 

Neketon,  Giles  de,  72. 

,    John    son    of   Williani    de, 

chaplain,  279. 

,  William  de,  279. 

Nelyng,  John,  of  Boxford,  270,  277, 

278,  389. 
Nemnefeld.    See  Ninfield. 
Nerberd,  John,  418. 

,  William  son  of  John,  418. 

Nerbert.    See  Narberth. 

Nesbitt,  Nesbyt  [co.  Durham],  418. 

Nesedon.    See  Neasden. 

Nessefeld,  William  de,  15,  210,  274, 

292,  296,  307,  365. 

,   .  .  . . ,  escheator  in  Cumber- 
land, 3,  38. 

,    .  .  . . ,    ....    in  Lancashire, 

31. 

,   .  .  .  . ,   ....  in  Northumber- 
land, 425. 

,  ....  in  Yorkshire,  17, 

131,  218. 

,   knight  of  the  shire  of 

York,  479. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Scotton,  81. 
Net?iercaldecote.    See  Caldicote. 
Netherhall  in  Hickling,  Hykelyngge, 

CO.  Norfolk,  manor  of,  474. 
,    le    Netherhalle    [in    Bures 

St.  Mary,  co.  Suffolk],  manor 

of,  186. 
Netherpenne.     See  Penn. 
Netherstratton.       See    Stratton    St. 

Margarets. 


Netherwent    [co.    Monmouth],    lord 
of.     See  Stafford,  Ralph,  earl 
of  Stafford. 
Netlestede.    See  Nettlestead. 
nets  for  the  king's  use,  390. 
Nettlestead,  Netlestede,  co.  Suffolk, 
340. 

,  advowson  of,  340,  341. 

,  manor  of,  340,  341. 

Nettleton     (or    Bonde),     John,     of 

Yeovilton,  43. 
Neubeurn,  John,  132. 
Neubiggyng,     Margaret     (de   Hale), 

daughter  of  Thomas  de,  36. 
Neubold.     See  Newbold. 
Neuburgh,  Hawise  wife  of  Thomas 
de,  134. 

,  John  de,  vicar  of  the  choir 

of  St.  Peter's  York,  200,  201. 

,  Thomas  de,  134. 

Neuburn.  See  Newburn. 
Neubury.  See  Newbiu-y. 
Neuby,  Thomas  de,  78,  176,  681. 

,   ,  clerk,  55,  68,  83,  84, 

86,  174,  199,  272,  296,  388. 
Neubyggyng.     See  Newbiggin. 
Neue.    See  Neve. 
Neumarche.    See  Newemarche. 
Neuport.     See  Neweport,  Newport. 
Neuton.    See  Newton,  Newtown. 
Neuton,    Nicholas    de,    clerk,    125, 
126,  295,  296. 

,  Simon  de,  esquire,  50. 

,  Stephen  de,  216,  217. 

,    William    de,    of    Stafford- 
shire, 372. 
Neve,  Neue,  Joan  wife  of  William, 
164,  222,  224,  264,  317,  318. 

,  William,  164. 

, ,  of  Weeting,  222,  224, 

264,  317,  318. 
Neville,    Alexander    de,     125,     126, 
265. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  king's  clerk,  126. 

,  Alice  wife  of  Ralph  de,  355, 

361. 

John,  son  of  Ralph  dc,  350, 

355,  361,  416,  417. 

Ralph  de,  31,  32,  57,  95,  96, 

252,  351,  355,  356,  361,  416, 
417. 

,  . .  . . ,  executors  of,  348. 

, justice,  224. 

,    . . . . ,  keeper  of  the  forest 

beyond  Trent,  28,  37. 

,     . .  .  . ,     ....    of    Inglewood 

forest,  246. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Raby,  knight,  268. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  warden  and  constable 

of  Bamburgh  castle,  349. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


613 


Neville — cont. 

Robert  do,  knight,  42. 
.  .  .  . ,  of  Hornbv,  60,  358. 

.knight,  383,  481. 

, the  elder,  361. 

Robert  son  of  Ralph  de,  351. 
....  son  of  Robert  de,  of 
Hornby,  361. 
Newark,  the  new  work  by  Guild- 
ford [co.  Surrey],  prior  and 
convent  of,  269. 
Newbiggin,  Neubyggyng  [in  Ays- 
garth],  CO.  York,  351. 

,  manor  of,  361. 

Newbold  [-and-Armscott],  Noubold, 
Newebold  upon  Stowre  [co. 
Worcester],  1,  68. 

Pacy,  CO.  Warwick,  Ashorne 

in,   174. 
Newburn,  Neuburn,  Newborne,  co. 
Northumberland,    manor    of, 
351,  438. 
Newbury,  Neubury  [co.  Berks],  281. 
Newcastle,   McKenegan   [co.    Wick- 
low],  Ireland,  castle  of,  432. 

under  Lyme  [co. Stafford],  169. 

upon  Tyne,  upon  Tine,  co. 

Northumberland,      86,      173, 
426,  442. 

,  bailiffs  of,  23,  91,  137, 
153,  234,  407. 
.  .  .  .,  burgesses  of,  169,  181. 
.  .  .  . ,  castle  of,  prison  in,  150. 
.  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  repair  of,  149. 
.  .  .  . ,    controller  in  port  of, 
132.  (SeeaZso  Preston,  John  de. 
.  .  .  . ,    customers,    collectors 
of  custom  of,  31,  95,  130,  132, 
137,  153,  234,  251,  416,  420, 
440.     Sec  also  Acton,  William 
de  ;   Stanhope,  Richard  de. 

. .  . . ,    escheator    in.        See 
below  under  mayor. 
.  .  .  . ,  gaol  at,  keeper  of.    See 
Rote,  Thomas. 
.  .  . . ,  . .  .  . ,  repair  of,  37. 
.....    house    for    weighing 
wool  at,  252. 

.....  issues  of  customs  and 
subsidy  in,  31,  96,  356. 

mayor  of,  23,  91,  137, 

143,  153,  234,  251,  407. 

.  .  .  . ,    .  .  .  . ,    and   escheator 
in.     See  Acton,  William  de  ; 
Stanhope,    John    de  ;     Stan- 
hope, Richard. 
.  .  .  .,  murage  of,  251,  252. 

,  port  of,  235. 

.  .  . . ,     St.       Bartholomew's 
priory,  Anne  prioress  of,  390. 


143, 


Newcastle     ui)on     Tyne,     St.    Bar- 
tholomew's priory — cont. 
,    nun    of.     See 

Eccles,  Idonea  do. 
,  St.  Mary  del  Wostg  te, 

master   of   hospital   of.      See 

Norton,  William  de. 

,  sliips  of,  181. 

,  staple  of,  4,  1 12. 

the  king's  chapel  at, 

chaplain  of.     See  Thj'ngdon, 

Robert  de. 
,  the  Sandhill,  le  Sand- 
hull  in,  251. 

,  troner  of  wool  in,  132. 

Newdegate,   Nieudegate,    Nudegate, 

William,   188,  272,  502,   503, 

504. 
Newebold.     See  Newbold. 
Newehithe.    See  New  Hithe. 
Newehous.    See  Newsham. 
Neweland.    See  Newton  on  the  Sea. 
Neweman,  Hugh,  217. 
,  John,  John  le,  of  Farnham, 

502,  503,  504. 
Newemarche,  Neumarche,  John,  464, 

489. 
Newenham.    See  Newnham. 
Newenham,  John  de,  400. 
,    .  .  .  . ,  canon  of  St.  Mary's 

church,  Lincoln,  291. 

,  clerk,  357,  389. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    .  .  .  . ,  chamberlain  of 

the  exchequer,  124. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  king's  clerk,  249. 

,  Nicholas,  Nicholas  de,  400, 

488. 
Newenton.    See  Newington. 
Newenton,  Geoffrey  de,  43. 
Neweport,   Neuport,   Alexander  de, 

parson  of  Warfield,  377. 

,  Jolin,  John  de,  160,  185. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight,  168. 

,  Reynold  de,  294. 

William,    William   de,    173, 

362. 
Newerk,  William,  William  dQ,  63. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  chaplain,  55,  92,  381, 

382,  487,  488,  500. 
Neweton.     See  Newton. 
New      Forest,      co.      Southampton, 

election  of  verderer  in,  228. 
New  Hithe,   Newehithe   [in   Cleton, 

CO.  York — lost],  bailiwick  of, 

315. 
Newington,  Newynton,  co.  Kent,  87. 
[co.     Oxford],     Holconibe, 

Opholcombe  in,  166. 
South,  South  Newenton,  co. 

Oxford,  fee  in,  496. 


614 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Newland  [parish  of  Cottingham],  co. 
York,  245. 

Newnham,  Newenham  [co.  Bedford], 
prior  of,  409. 

„ ,  Nywenham  [in  Sutton  Veny, 

CO.  Wilts],  193,  194. 

Murren,  NeWenham,  Newen- 
ham Moryn  [co.  Oxford],  166, 
173. 

■ on   Severn,   Newenham,   co. 

Gloucester,  347. 

Newport  [co.  Monmouth],  lord  of. 
See  Stafford,  Ralph,  earl  of 
Stafford. 

,  Neuport,  co.  Salop,  309. 

,    Neuport    [Isle    of    Wight], 

deed  dated  at,  173. 

Pagnell,  Neuport  Paynel,  co. 

Buckingham,  chitrch  of,  217. 

Robert  vicar  of,  217. 

Newsham,  Newehous  [in  Brock- 
lesby,  CO.  Lincoln],  abbot 
and  convent  of,  87. 

Newton,  Neweton  [co.   Salop],   367. 

Old,   Neuton   [co.    Suffolk], 

54. 

on  the  Sea,  Neuton  by  the 

Sea,    Neweland,    co.    North- 
umberland, 243,  426. 

,   Wold,    Walde   Neuton,    co. 

Lincoln,   428. 

Newtown,  Neuton  [parish  of  Roth- 
bury],  CO.  Northumberland, 
140' 

Newynton.    See  Newington. 

Neylond,  Thomas,  parson  of  Mers- 
tham,  302. 

Neyrnuyt,  John,  164. 

Nichol,  Henry,  170. 

John,  322,  323. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  merchant  of  Corn- 
wall,  368. 

,    William,    clerk,    incumbent 

of    Llandewyvelfrey    church, 
32. 

See  Fitz  Nichol. 

Nicholas,  Nicolas,  Henry,  burgess 
of  Dunstable,   302. 

,  John  son  of,  neif ,  282. 

,  Silvester,  merchant  of  Lom- 

bardy,  455. 

,  Thomas,  burgess  of  Dun- 
stable,   302. 

,  . .  . . ,  coroner  of  co.  Bed- 
ford, 228. 

Nieudegate.    See  Newdegate. 

Niewenham.  See  Nuneham  Court- 
ney. 

Nikelson,  Osbert,  of  Denmark,  368. 

Cf.  Nuttlesson. 


Ninfield,  Nemnefeld,  co.  Sussex,  183. 

Noble,  John,  of  Middlesex,  477. 

,  Richard  le,  262. 

Nocton,  CO.  Lincoln,  manor  of,  349. 

Noioim.,  Alice  wife  of  William,  19. 

,  William,  bastard,  19. 

Noke,  Oke,  co.  Oxford,  fees  in,  496. 

Nongle,  Naungle,  Barnabas  son  of 
Barnabas  de,  232,  233,  293. 

,  ....  son  of  John  de,  232. 

,  John  de,  232. 

, Margaret  wife  of  John  de,232. 

,  Walter  brother  of  Barnabas 

de    232. 

,  William,  424. 

,    ....    son  of  Barnabas  de, 

232,  233,  293. 

, ,  heir  of,  292. 

Norffolk,  John  de,  the  king's  searcher 
in  Calais,  152. 

Norfolk,  Norffolk,  Northfolk,  county 
of,  45,  56,  77,  205,  209,  267, 
289,  367,  377,  387,  388,  398, 
400,  408. 

,  archdeacon  of.     See  Blyth, 

William  de. 

collectors   of   customs    and 

searchers  of  forfeitures  in,  11. 

,  creeks  and  privy  places  in, 

guarding  of,  6. 

,  duke  of.      See  Brotherton, 

Thomas  de. 

,  escheator  in.   See  Wolfreton, 

Roger  de. 

,  honour  of  Richmond  in,  216. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  169, 

273,  480. 

,  sale  of  fish  in,  58. 

,  sessions  in,  63. 

,  sheriff  of,    10,   30,   88,    101, 

138,  156,  216,  255,  259,  346, 
370,  376.  See  also  Sancto 
Omero,  Thomas  de, 

subsidy  in,  203. 

Norhampton.     See  Northampton. 

Norman,  Roger,  333,  334. 

,  Walter,  383. 

Normancross,  Normancrosse  hun- 
dred, CO.  Huntingdon,  39. 

Normandy,  constable  of.  See  John 
count  of  Tankarville. 

,  fish  from,  442. 

,  little  ship  of,  442. 

Normanville,  Joan  wife  of  Roger, 
413. 

,  Thomas  de,  escheator  be- 
yond Trent,  33. 

Norreys,  Nicholas  le,  of  Burton- 
wood,  68. 

,  Simon,  clerk,  of  Norfolk,  367 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


615 


North,  VV'illiain,  of  Wilts.  4()8,  469. 
Norbhaiiiptori,Norliaiuptoa,375,  400. 

,  burgossos  of,   169. 

,  prison  of,  374,  375. 

.statutes  published  at,   385, 

392. 
Trinity    hospital    without, 

master    of.       See    Bollesore, 

Richard  de. 
Northampton,  Norhampton,  county 

of,  46,  64,  279,  281,  366,  370, 

377,  388,  394,  401,  471,  474. 

commons  of,  225. 

,  eschoator  in.  See  Wydeville, 

Richard  de. 

,  justices  of  assize  in,  375. 

of  oyer  and  terminer 

in,  267. 

,  ....  of  the  forest  in,  240. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  168, 

273,  480. 
,  service  of  destroying  vermin 

in,  411,  426. 
,  sheriff  of,  99,  127,  225,  235, 

242,  278,  348,  360,  374,  375, 

414. 
Northavene.    See  Avon,  North. 
Northbovy.    See  Bovey,  North. 
Northbroke    [parish    of    Somerton], 

CO.  Oxford,  3. 
Northbury,     John     de,     farmer     of 

subsidy,  203. 

,  Richard  de,  477. 

Northcarleton.    See  Charlton. 
Northfieet.  Northflet,  co.  Kent,  65. 
Northfolk.    ,See  Norfolk. 
Northmiddelton.        See    Middleton, 

North. 
Northmoor,  Northmore,  co.  Oxford, 

397. 

,  Kathyngeye  in,  397. 

Northmortone.  See  Moreton,  North. 
Northmymmes.  See  Minims,  North. 
Northome     [near    Wellington],     co. 

Somerset,  74,  180,  266. 
Northorp  [in  Easington,  co.  York], 

315. 
Northtoft,  Edmund,  171. 
Northumberland,  county  of,  57,  83, 

86,    173,    176,    182,    194,   265, 

288,  298,  400,  472. 
,  escheator  in.    See  Nessefeld, 

William  de  ;  Rej^gate, William 

de  ;  Scotherskelf,   John  de. 

,  justices  in,  224. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  196, 

273,  480. 
sheriff  of,  36,  1 38,  149,  152, 

156,  320.  337,  390,  407.     See 

also  Strother,  Henry  de. 


Northumberland — conl. 

subsidy  in,  281. 

Northwicli,  Richard,  280. 

Northwick,  Northwyk  Ijy  Worcester 
[parish  of  dairies],  co.  Wor- 
cester, 106. 

Northvvode,  Agnes  de,  51. 

,  Joan  daughter  of  John  de,  27. 

,  John  de,  knight,  27. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  parson  of  St.  Columb, 

365. 

,  John  son  of  Roger  de,  knight, 

50,  51. 

,    Roger    son    of    Roger    de, 

knight,  50,  51. 

Northwyk.    See  Northwick. 

Norton,  Brize,  Coldnorton,  Norton, 
CO.  Oxford,  44,  45. 

prior  and  convent  of, 

127. 

,  Green's.   See  Green's  Norton. 

,  Hook.    See  Hook  Norton. 

le.  Clay,  Norton  by  Burgh- 
bridge,  in  le  Dryt  [co.  York], 
421. 

,  manor  of,  421. 

Norton,  Ralph  de,  of  Sussex,  367. 

,     Richard     de,     citizen     of 

Worcester,  481. 

,  William  de,  master  of  tlie 

hospital  of  St.  Mary  del 
Westgate,  Newcastle-upon- 
Tyne,'  400. 

Norwich,  Norwiz,  179,  203,  205,  378. 

,     bishop     of.        See     Percy, 

Thomas. 

,    Holy    Trinity,    prior    and 

convent  of,  391. 

,  prison  at,  88. 

Norwico,Norwych,  John  de,  329,  389. 

,  Richard  de,   of  Orpington, 

167. 

,  William  de,  of  London,  271. 

Norwiz.    See  Norwich. 

Norwych.    See  Norwico. 

Not.    -See  Notte. 

Notefeld.    See  Nutfield. 

Notingham,  Notyngham,  John  de, 
of  Dorking,  204. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  ostiler,  398. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  verderer  of  the  forest 

of  Rutland,  130. 

,  Thomas  de,  12,  13. 

,  William  de,  177. 

Notley,  Black,  Blake  Nuttele,  co. 
PJssex,  proclamation  in  church 
of,   202. 

,   White,   Notle,   White  Not- 

tele,  CO.  Essex,  294. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  412. 


616 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Notte,  Not,  John,  93,  500. 

citizen  of  London,  92. 

,      .  .  . . ,      mayor      of,      and 

escheator  in  London,   10,   24, 

170,  269. 
Nottele.     See  Notley. 
Nottingham,  Notyngham  [co.   Not- 
tingham],  castle  of,  clerk  of 

works    at.       See    Maunsfeld, 

John  de. 
,    . . . . ,    constable    of.       See 

Romylogh,    Stephen. 

,  prison  at,  28. 

Nottingham,  Notyngham,  county  of, 

68,  384,  492. 
,  escheator  in.     See  Frothe- 

leye,  Wilham  de  ;  Lutteleye, 

Philip     de  ;     Moryn,    John  ; 

Savage,  Edmund. 
,    justices    for    pleas    of    the 

forest  in,  28. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  168, 

273,  480. 
sheriff  of,  16,  17,  142,  143, 

245,     266,     419.        See    also 

Gresley,  John  de. 

,  subsidy  in,  380. 

Notton    [parish    of    Roystone],    co. 

York,   193. 
Notton,    John   de,    yeoman   of    the 

king's  wardrobe,  486. 

,  William  de,  193. 

Notyere,  Alice,  of  London,  400,  401. 
Notyngham.     See  Notingham,  Not- 
tingham. 
No  van.    See  Navan. 
Novo  Castro,  Isolda  (de  Bosenham) 

daughter  of  Peter  de,  citizen 

and  skinner  of  London,  269. 
Nowers,  John,  John  de,  knight,  45, 

61,  366. 

of  Gothurst,  54. 

,  Maud  wife  of  John,  54. 

Nudegate.    See  Newdegate. 

nun,  apostate,  379. 

Nuneham     Courtney,     Niewenham, 

CO.  Oxford,  fee  in,  496. 
Nunkeeling,    co.    York,    Bewholme, 

Beghom  in,  245. 
Nunnington,  Nunnyngton,  co.  York, 

assignment  of  dower  in,  286, 

287. 
Nunton,    John   de,    coroner   for   co. 

Northampton,  360. 
Nutfield,  J^otefeld,  Nutfeld,  Nutte- 

feld  [co.  Surrey],  20. 

,  deed  dated  at,  178. 

,  manor  of,  177. 

Nuthurst,  CO.  Berks,  133. 
Nuttefeld.    See  Nutfield. 


Nuttele.    See  Notley. 
Nuttlesson,     Osbert,    of     Denmark, 
417. 

Of.  Nikelson. 

Nywenham.    See  Newnham. 
Nywes,  co.  Kilkenny,  425. 


o 

Oakington,     HokjTiton,     Okyngton, 
CO.  Cambridge,  6,  138,  139 

,    Westwick,    Westewyk     in, 

493. 

Oakley,  Hokkele,  Ocle,  co.  Bucldng- 
ham,  manor  of,  229,  230. 

oaks,  415. 

oats,  stripes  of,  338. 

Ocle.     See  Oakley. 

Odell,    Wodhull,     Little     Wodhull, 
Woodhull,  CO.  Bedford,  356. 

,  deed  dated  at,  175. 

,  manor  of,  175. 

,  mill  at,  357. 

,  pond  at,  357. 

,  places  named  in,  357. 

,  wood  at,  357. 

Odiham,  Odyham  [co.  Hants],  486. 

,  hundred  of,  486. 

Odstone,  Ordeston  [in  Ashbury],  co. 
Berks,  402. 

Odwode,    CO.    Somerset,    manor    of, 
294. 

Odyham.     See  Odiham. 

Ofham,  Offam,  John,  280,  383. 

Ogle  [parish  of  Whalton],  co.  North- 
umberland, manor  of,  147. 

Ogle,  Joan  wife  of  Robert  de,   147, 
148. 

,  Robert  de,  147,  148. 

,  ....  son  of  Robert  de,  147, 

148. 

Ogloern,  Clement,  425. 

Okbourne  in  Kent,  William  de,  408. 

Okeford,  Okford,  Child.     See  Child 

Okeford. 
Fitzpaine,  co.  Dorset,  Fiddle- 
ford  in,  57,  165. 

Shilling,    Okford    Skillyng. 

See  Shilling  Okeford. 

Oke.    See  Noke. 

Okford.    See  Okeford. 

Okstede.    See  Oxted. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


617 


Okyngtoa.    See  Oakington. 
Oklcastol,    Oldecastel,    John,    John 
de,  248. 

kniglit     of     the    shire     of 

Hereford,  480. 
Olde,  Henry  le,  44. 
Oldecastel.    See  Oldcastel. 
Oldewyndesore.     See  Windsor,   Old. 
Old  Ford.  Eldeforde,  the  Eldoford 
in  Stebenheth  [parish  of  Bow, 
CO.  Middlesex],  53,  477. 
Oldham,  co.  Lancaster,  Chadderton 

in,  297. 
Olive,     Olyve,     Alice    daughter    of 
William,  139. 

,  John,  139,  405. 

,  William  son  of  John,  139. 

Oliver,  Olyver,   Edmund,   398. 

,  John,  171,  463. 

,  . .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Essex,  481. 

,  . ,  . . ,  of  Stanway,  366. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Toppesfield,  433. 

,     ....     son    of    Robert,    of 

Croydon,    401. 

,  Robert,  398,  399. 

Olmestede,  William,  289. 

Olney,    Olneye    [co.    Buckingham], 

54,  393. 
Olneye,  John,  John  de,  297,  400. 
, escheator  in  Bedford- 
shire, 246,  247,  250,  350,  356, 

410,  412,  421,  434,  435,  438. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Buckingham- 
shire, 223,  229,  242,  244,  247, 
248,  250,  259,  260,  319,  321, 
341,  415,  433,  435,  438. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Cambridge- 
shire, 221,  225,  242,  247, 
250,  260,  343,  348,  350,  411, 
436,   438,   454. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Huntingdon- 
shire, 229,  247,  250,  361,  410, 

411,  412,  438. 

,  Richard,  of  London,  209. 

Olyve.    See  Olive. 

Olyver.    See  Oliver. 

Ongar,  High,  Aimgre,  High  Aungre, 

CO.      Essex,      Chivers     Hall, 

Chevereshalle  in,  172. 

, ,  park  of,  405,  406. 

Openshaw,    Hepenshagh    [parish    of 

Manchester,    co.    Lancaster], 

474. 
Opholcoumbe.    See  Holcombe. 
oratory  attached  to  chamber,  394. 
Orchard,    Alice    (Laundy)    wife    of 

Thomas,  144,  220,  221. 

,  Thomas,  220. 

Ordeston.    See  Odstone. 


Ore  [in  Milton],  co.  Kent,  230,  231. 

,  manor  of,  230,  231. 

Ore,  Robert  do,  289. 

C/.  Dore. 

Orewell.    See  Orwell. 

Orford  [co.  Suffolk],  bailiffs  of,  91. 

,   bailiffs,   customers  etc.   of, 

137. 
Organ,  John,  mercer  of  London,  489. 
Orgor,  John,  501. 
Orgreave  [in  Rotherham]  ?  Orpittes, 

CO.  York,  147. 
Orlingbury,    Orlyngher,    co.    North- 
ampton, fee  in,  497. 
Orlyngborgh,  Adam  de,  366. 
Orlynglier.     See  Orlingbury. 
Ormond,    Ormound,    earl    of.       See 

Boteler. 
Orpington,  Orpynton,  co.  Kent,  167. 
Orpittes.     See  Orgreave  ? 
Orpynton.    See  Orpington. 
Orreby,   Joan   (de  Percv)  daughter 

of  John  de,  107,  i08. 
,   John  de,   tenant   in  chief, 

107. 
Orsini.     See  Fitz  Urse. 
Orton  Longueville,  co.  Huntingdon, 

Botolph     Bridge,     Botulves- 

brugge  in,   229. 
Waterville,  Overton  Water- 

vylle  [co.   Huntingdon],  par- 
son of.    See  Clement,  Robert. 
Orwell,  Horwell,  Orewell  [co.  Suffolk 

— lost],  maj'or  and  bailiffs  of, 

407. 

,  port  of,  333,  334. 

Orwyn,  Roger,  of    Cambridgeshire, 

188. 
Osbarnby.    See  Osbournby. 
Osbern,  John,  of  Braunston,  267. 
Osbournby,  Osbarnby  [co.  Lincoln], 

433. 
Osekyn,  John,  189. 
Osemound,  Robert,  462. 
Oseneye.    See  Osney. 
Osgerthorp,  co.  York,  147. 
Osgodby,  Osgotby,  co.  York,  20,  239, 

330. 
Osgotby,  Sir  Thomas,  vicar  of  the 

choir  of  St.  Peter's,  York,  200, 

201. 
Osney,  Oseneve  [co.  Oxford],  abbot 

of,  496. 

,  ....  and  convent  of,  488. 

Ospringe,  Osprenge,  co.  Kent,  294. 
Oswaldestre,    See  Oswestry. 
Oswaldestwisel.     See  Oswaldtwistle. 
Oswaldkirk,  co.  York,  129. 
Oswaldtwistle,    Oswaldestwisel,    co. 

Lancaster,  Duckworth  in,  31. 


618 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Oswestry,  Oswaldestre  [co.  Salop], 
lord  of.  See  Fitz  Alan, 
Richard,   earl   of    Arundel. 

Osye,  wine  of,  158. 

Otery,  Roger,  parson  of  Bledlow,  ini. 

Oterj'ngton.     See  Ottryngton. 

Otford,  Otteford,  co.  Kent,  bailiff 
of.     See  Preston,  Thomas  de. 

,  chancery  at,  366. 

Otham,  Otham  by  Maydestan,  co. 
Kent,  fees  in,  495. 

Othis,  Benedict,  388. 

Otryngwode  in  Farnham,  co. 
Surrey,  503. 

Otryton.    See  Otterton. 

Otteford.     See  Otford. 

Otteford,  William  de,  escheator  in 
Bedfordshire,  12,  99,  101, 
125,   127,   149,  261. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Buckingham- 
shire, 23,  27,  34,  99,  101,  139, 
149,  214,  217,  244,  319,  341. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Cambridge- 
shire, 1,  6,  24,  25,  28,  35,  37, 
108,  114,  125,  131,  142,  149, 
213,  214,  221,  225. 

,   .  .  .  . ,   ....   in  Hvmtingdon- 

shire,   149. 

Otterbourne  [co.  Hants],  Boyat, 
Boneyate  in,  44,  51. 

Otterton,  Otrj'ton  [co.  Devon],  204. 

Ottryngton,  Oteryngton,  Walter 
de,  chaplain,  warden  of 
Andrew  Toller's    chantry    in 

'^  St.     Martin's     in   Micklegate 

church,   York,    332. 

,  William  de,  of  York,  467. 

Otwy,  Andrew,  93. 

Oulton,  CO.  Suffolk,  manor  of,  260. 

Ouse,  river  [co.  Bedford],  fishery  in, 
357. 

Outheby,  Outhenby.  See  Owmby. 

Outhorne.    See  Owthorne. 

Overburgate.    See  Burgate,  Upper. 

Overewent.    See  Over  Went. 

Overk.  See  Iverk. 

Overton  Watervylle.  See  Orton 
Waterville. 

Overton,Alan  de,  vicar  of  Ibstock, 452. 

.......  Henry  de,  abbot  of  Peter- 
borough, 447. 

Overtyso.    See  Tysoe. 

Over  Went,  Overewent  [co.  Mon- 
mouth], lady  of.  See  Hast- 
ings,  Agnes  de. 

Ovingham,  Ovyngeham,  co.  North- 
umberland,   439. 

,  advowson  of,  439. 

,  Rouchester,  Rouchastre  in, 

439. 


Owlswick,     Ulneswyk      [in     Monks 

Risborough,  co. Buckingham], 

172. 
Owmby,    Outheby,    Outhenby,    co. 

Lincoln,  439,  452. 
Owthorne,  Outhorne,  co.  York,  101, 

102,  315. 

,  Rimswell  in,  245. 

Oxenford,  Peter  de,  488. 

,  Robert  de,  goldsmith,  77. 

Oxeye  Walrond.    See  Wiggenhall. 
Oxford,  burgesses  of,  summoned  to 

parliament,   481. 

,  castle  of,  constable  of,  85. 

,    countess    of.        See    Veer, 

Maud  de. 
,  earl  of.    See  Veer,  John  de  ; 

Veer,   Thomas  de. 
St.       Bartholomew       by, 

brethren  of  hospital  of,  351. 
St.    Mary  Hall    [now    Oriel 

college],  provost  and  .scholars 

of,  351. 
Oxford,  county  of,  61,  67,  84,   193, 

267,  270,  276,  290,  294,  296, 

366,   396,   473. 
,  escheator  in.    See  Evesham, 

John  de. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  169, 

273,  480. 
,  service  of  destroying  vermin 

in,  411,  426. 
,    sheriff    of,    138,    142,    156, 

229,     414,     476.         See    also 

Cotesford,   Roger  de ;    Pury, 

John. 

,  taxation  in,  281,  380. 

Oxted,  Okstede,  co.  Surrey,  manor 

and  advowson  of,  66. 
Oxton,  Walter,  209. 


P 

Pabenham,  Elizabeth  wife  of 
Lawrence  de,  knight,  426. 

,   Lawrence  de,   knight,    175, 

357. 

Cf.  Pebenham. 

Pache,  John,  felon,  32. 

,  Thomas,  felon,  32. 

Cf.  Pecche. 

Paciencia,  Ralph  de,  prior  of 
Plympton,   204. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


619 


Packington,     Pakyntou     [co,     War- 
wick], 162. 
Padbury,  John,  de  338. 
Paddingfoki,     Ponyngfold    [in    Ew- 

hiu'st,  CO.  SuiToy],  manor  of, 

277. 
Pademere,     Eleanor     daughter     of 

Alice      daughter      of      John, 

knight,  163. 
Page,  John,  379. 

,  of  London,  362. 

son  of  Walter,  skinner, 

of  London,  491. 
Peter,  merchant  of  Amiens, 

257,  258. 
,    Thomas    son    of    John,    of 

Sandwich,  373. 

,  William,  269. 

Pagoham,    Lawrence   de,    tenant   in 

chief,  225. 

,  heir  of,  225. 

Paget,  William,  131,  132. 
Paghel  Flete.    See  Paulfleet. 
Paglesham,  Pakelesham,  co.  Essex, 

le  Gardyn  in,  496. 
Paiable,     Payable,     Nicholas.     166, 

173. 
,  mayor  of  Wallingf ord, 

195. 
Pakefield,  Pakefeld,  co.  Suffolk,  73. 
Pakelesham.     See  Paglesham. 
Pakeman,     Pakemon,     Simon,     43, 

271. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Leicester,  168,  273,  480. 
Pakenham  [co.  Suffolk],  279. 
Pakynton.    See  Packington. 
Palet,  Robert,  265. 
Palham,    John,   John   de,   chaplain, 

186. 

Cf.  Pelham. 

Pallyng,  John,  of  Drayton,  187. 
Palmer,  Alan,   192. 

,  John,  268. 

,  Richard,  of  Polebrook,  374, 

375. 

,  William,  chaplain,  365. 

,  clerk,  176. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  of  Frankton,  7 1 . 

,   .  .  .  . ,  of  Warwickshire,  281. 

Palster,  Palstre  [in  Wittersham],  co. 

Kent,  289. 
Panes,  John  de,  466. 

,  Thomas,  184. 

papal    instruments,    ordinance    con- 
cerning, 90. 
Pappele,  Thomas  de,  388. 

Wilham  de,  388. 

Parchemyner,  Roger  le,  72. 
Paris,  Parys,  candle  of,  172,  362. 


Parke,  Jolin  del,  282. 

,     Richard     atto,     of     Sible 

Hcdingham,  270. 

Thomas  atto,  43. 

,  William    atto,    surveyor   of 

the    king's    works    at    Guild- 
ford, 432. 
Parker,  Alice  wife  of  Richard  le,  50. 

John,  289,  370,  375. 

, ,  of  Eltham,  64. 

,   yeoman  of  Isabel  the 

king's  daughter,  190,  191. 

,     Richard     le,     of     King's 

Langley,  50. 
Paries,    Roese     wife    of     Nicholas, 

102. 
Parley,     West,     co.     Dorset,     West 

Moors,  La  More  in,  8. 
parliament,   3,   7,   38,   74,   104,   112, 
113,  118,  132,  135,  141,  177, 
244,  326. 

in  Ireland,  353,  448,  499,  500. 

,    knights    and    burgesses    of, 

168,   169,  272-274,  479-481. 

,  petitions  of,   100,   126,   177, 

244,  424,  429,  430. 

,  roll  of,  177. 

,   summons   to,    89,    90,    210, 

211,  467,  468. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  cancelled,  100. 

proceedings    in,     237-239, 

344,  345. 
Parminter,  Henry,  395. 
Parrokfiete     [in    estuary    of    Colne, 

CO.    Essex],    water    of,    157. 
Partrich,  Roger,  287,  294. 

Cf.  Patriche,    Patrik,    Per- 

trich. 
Parvyng,  Adam,  knight,  verderer  of 
the  forest  of  Inglewood,  246. 
Parys.   See  Paris. 
Parys,  Richard,  296. 
Pase,  Cavalkus,  364. 
Pasford,  John,  cordwainer,  209. 
Paslewe,   Robert,   of  Northampton- 
shire, 281. 

Cf.  Pashele. 

pasnage,  102,  341. 

passage,  341. 

Passenham,  co.  Northampton,  384. 

,  Puxley,  Poukesle  in,  384. 

Passeware,  William,  82,   84. 
Passhele,  Edmund  de,  knight,  289. 

,  Joan  wife  of  Edmund  de, 

289. 

,   Robert  de,   Robert  son  of 

Robert  de,  289. 

Cf.  Paslewe. 

pasture,  overcharge  of,  364. 
Pateshull.    See  Pattiahall. 


620 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Pateshull,    Alice    (Wake)    sister    of 

William  de,  435. 
,    Katherine    (de   Tudenham) 

sister  of  William  de,  434,  435. 
,     Maud     (de    Faucomberge) 

sister  of  William  de,  434. 

,  William  de,  307,  308,  435. 

,     .  .  .  . ,     knight,     tenant     in 

chief,  434. 
Patriche,  William,  249. 
Cf.   Partrich,  Patrik,   Per- 

trich. 
Patrik,  Robert,  of  Guildford,  381. 
Patrington,  Patryngton  [co.  York], 

390. 
Pattishall,     Pateshull,     co.     North- 
ampton, 175,  307,  434. 
,    Ascote,    Anescot,    Auenes- 

cote  in,  307,  434. 
Dalscote,         Darlescote, 

Derlescote  in,  307,  434. 
Paty,  Christiana,  287. 
Paiilfleet,    Paghel   Flete,    co.    York, 

315. 
Paull  [co.  York],  Little  Humber  in, 

315. 
Paulynes    Creye.        See    Cray,     St. 

Paul's. 
Paumes,  Nicholas,  291. 
Pauncefote,  Ralph,  72. 

,  Richard,  78,  406,  485. 

Paunton,    William    de,    of    Lincoln. 

coroner  for  co.  Lincoln,  348, 

428. 
pavage,  20,  443. 
Paveleye,    Pavele,    Pavely,    Adam, 

247. 
,  Alice  (de  Seintlou)  daughter 

of  John,  457. 
,  Joan  (Cheyne)  daughter  of 

Jolin,  456,  457,  458. 
,  John,  prior  of  the  hospital 

of  St.   John  of  Jerusalem  in 

England,  58. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  tenant  in  chief,  456. 

,  Walter  de,  knight,  42,  178, 

196,  199,  466. 

,....,....,  of  Hilperton,  198. 

Paxston,  Thomas  de,  prebendary  of 

Cropredy    in    the    church    of 

St.  Mary,  Lincoln,  401. 
Payable.    See  Paiable. 
payage,  20,  102,  341,  443. 
Payn,  John,   armourer,   of  London, 

85,  460. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  82, 

84. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  London,  249. 

,  Roger,  489. 

,  Thomas,  esquire,  267. 


Payn,  Thomas — cont. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Balsham,  268. 

,  William,  164,  389,  399. 

See  Fitz  Payn. 

Paynel,  John,  229. 

,  ....  son  of  John,  of  Booth- 

by,  229. 

,  Ralph,  knight,  274. 

Paynlowe,  Robert,  87. 

Payntour,  Peyntour,  John  le,  sur- 
veyor of  works  at  Windsor, 
412. 

,  Roger,  of  Bedford,  481. 

Payoun,  Stephen,  469. 

Peapingbery.    See  Pembury. 

pease,  441,  455. 

Peasmarsh,  Pesemerssh,  co.  Sussex, 
178. 

Pebbeworth.    See  Pebworth. 

Pebenham,  Hervey  son  of  Roese  de, 
449. 

,  Roese  de,  459. 

Cf.  Pabenham. 

Pebmarsh,  Pebenhersh,  co.  Essex, 
43. 

Pebworth,  Pebbeworth,  co.  Glou- 
cester, 170. 

Pecche,  John,  495. 

,   alderman  of  London, 

269. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight,  161. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Westminster,  268. 

Cf.  Pache. 

Peckebrigge,  John  de,  knight, 
315. 

Peckham,  Pekham,  James  de,  186, 
206. 

Pecok,  Richard,  of  London,  tailor, 
93. 

pedage,  233. 

Pedreton,  John  de,  466. 

Peek,  Pek,  William  de,  234,  235. 

Pegelton,  John  de,  burgess  of  Dun- 
stable, 302. 

Pek.    See  Peek. 

Pekliam.    See  Peckham. 

Pelegrmi,  Master  Hugh,  treasurer 
of  the  church  of  Lichfield, 
302. 

,  Reymund,  clerk,  302, 

Pelham  [co.  Hertford],  43. 

Furneaux,  Forneus,  Forneux, 

CO.  Hertford,  manor  of,  318, 
451. 

Pelham,  John  de,  clerk,  243. 

,    .  .  . . ,   parson  of  Wykham, 

242. 

,     Thomas     de,     coroner     of 

Sussex,  219. 

Cf.  Palham. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


C21 


Pembroke,     Pombroch     [eo.     Pem- 
broke],    mercliant     of,     322, 

323,  368. 
Pembroke,  countess  of.  Sec  Hastings, 

Agnes     de ;      Sancto     Paulo, 

Mary  de. 
,    earl    of.         Sec    Hastings, 

Lawrence  de. 
Pembrugge,  Richard  de,  warden  and 

constable  of  Bamburgh  castle, 

349. 

Cf.  Penbrugge. 

Pembury,    Peapingbery   [co.    Kent], 

163. 
Penbrugge,  Fulk  de,  knight,  394. 

Cf.  Pembrugge. 

Penorich.    See  Penkridge. 

Pendley,  Pendele  [parish  of  Tring], 

CO.  Hertford,  207. 
Penherhard,    Walter   de,    knight   of 

the  shire  of  Cornwall,  480. 
Penhirgharth,     John,     coroner     for 

Cornwall,  97. 
Penkridge,   Pencrich   [co.   Stafford], 

prebend   of   Dunston   in   the 

free  chapel  of,  467. 
Penn,     Lower,     Netherpenne,     co. 

Stafford,  215. 
Penne,  Warin  de,  215. 

,  William  son  of  Hugh  de,  215. 

Pennington,    Penyton,    Penyton   hy 

Lemynton  [in    Milford],     co. 

Hants,  62,  389. 
,  manor  of,  44,  51,  62,   163, 

164. 
Penrith,  Penreth  [co.  Cumberland], 

bailiffs  of,  404. 
Pensax,  Richard  de,  32. 
Penshurst,  Pensherst,  co.  Kent,  184. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  52,  185. 

,  Chafford  in,  178. 

Pentlow,  CO.  Essex,  161. 
Pentrye,  Felicia  wife  of  John,  500. 
Penwore,    Oger,    coroner   for    Corn- 
wall,  362. 
Peny,  Walter,  ship-master,  255. 
Penyton.    See  Pennington. 
Pepelisham.  Thomas,  183. 
Pepir,  John,  of  Linton,  391. 
pepper,  rent  of,  440. 
Percehay,    Pershay,    Henry,    Henrv 

de,  69,  78,  81,  175,  191,  277, 

483. 

,  Isabel  wife  of  Henry,  8 1 . 

Percy,    Eustachia    (de    Heselarton) 

daughter  of  Peter  de,  340. 
,  Henry,  Henry  de,  89,   104, 

107,  211,  366,  440. 
,  .  .  .  .,  le  piere,  son  of  Henry 

de,  lord  of  Alnwick,  351. 


Perers, 


200. 


ship- 


Percy,  Henry — coni. 

.  .    lord,  494. 

.  .,  lord  of  Alnwick,  351. 

.  .,  son  of  Henry  de,  104, 

140,  439. 

,  the  father,438,  439,468. 

Idonea  wife  of  Henry  de, 

57,  140. 
Joan  wife  of  Henry  de,  107, 

108,  438,  439,  4.52. 
John,  of  Frismorshe,  390. 
Thomas,  bishop  of  Norwich, 

255,  259,  469. 
William,  knight,  92. 
Perreres,  Alice,  396. 
. .  .  .,  of  London,  198, 
Richard  de,  496. 
Peritz,   Gomis,  of  la  Croyne, 

master,  430. 
Perle,  Perlee,  Reynold,  367. 
,  Walter,  Walter  de,  62,  127, 

365,  393,  399,  402,  469. 
Pernyll,  John,  parker  of  Copt  Hall, 

188. 
Perot,  Henry,  460. 

,  Reynold,  of  Berkshire,  165. 

.Thomas,  373. 

Perreres.    See  Perers. 

Perry    Court     formerly    Aldoun    [in 

Wye],  CO.  Kent,  301. 
Pershay.    See  Percehay. 
Persones,  Agnes  wife  of  Peter,  487. 

Peter,  487. 

,  Thomas,  489. 

Persshore,  William,  72. 

Perth  [Perthshire],  port  of  St.  John, 

St.  John  Pert,  153. 
Perton,  John  de,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Stafford,  168. 
,  Leo  de,  escheator  in  Worces- 
tershire,   106,    135,    152,    155, 

158,  324,  438,  447. 
Pertrich,  William,  coroner  for  Cam- 
bridgeshire,   1 56. 
Cf.  Partrich,  Patrik,  Pat- 

riche. 
Peryton.    See  Pirton. 
pesage,  20,  443. 
Pesecod,  Richard,  3. 

,  Thomas,  3. 

Pesemerssh.    See  Peasmarsh. 
Pesto,  Isabel  daughter  of  Peter  de, 

of  Wetheral,  38. 

Cf.  Pistour. 

Pesyndenne,  John  de,  289. 
Peter,  king  of  Castile,  255. 
Peter,  John  son  of,  de  Hadclif,  87. 
,  Mariot  wife  of  John  son  of, 

de  Hadclif,  87. 
Roger  son  of,  283. 


622 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Peter — cont. 

,  William  son  of,  287. 

,  ....  son  of  John  son  of,  de 

Hadclif,  87. 
Peterborough     abbey     [co.     North- 
ampton],    abbot     of.         See 

Overton,  Henry  de. 

,  voidance  of.  111,  447. 

Petersfield,    Petresfeld,    co.    South- 
ampton, 294. 
Petherton,  South,  Southperton  [co. 

Somerton],    deed     dated    at, 

166. 
Petit,  Joan  wife  of  Ralph,  347. 
,    Ralph,     tenant     in     chief, 

347. 
Petresfeld.     See  Petersfield. 
Petresson,  John,  441,  442,  444. 
Petro,  John,  430. 
Petrus,  Denus,  316. 
Petworth,  Potteworth  [co.  Sussex], 

deed  dated  at,  375. 
Peunde,    Roger    atte.    chaplain    of 

chantry  at  Childrey,  462,  463. 

Cf.  Ponde. 

Pevensey  [co.  Sussex],  bailiffs  of,  91. 

,  Hegelond  in,  178. 

Peverel,    Peverell,    honour    of,    217, 

331,  411. 
Peverel,    Peverell,    Andrew,   knight, 

272. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Sussex,  273. 

,  HaiTiond,  496. 

,  Thomas  son  of  Henry,   44, 

50. 
Peyle,  Ralph,  501. 

,  Walter,  501. 

Peyntour.     See  Payntour. 
Peyto,  John,  170. 

,  John  de,  the  younger,   162. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    .  .  .  . ,   knight   of   the 

shire  of  Warwick,  480. 

,  William,  the  elder,  64. 

Peyton,  John  de,  461,  463. 
Peyvre,  Thomas,  260,  271. 
Phelippot.     iSee  PhilijDot. 
Phelpeston.    See  Philipston. 
Philip,     Philipp,     John,     parson    of 

Purleigh,  78,  79. 
Philipot,  Phelippot,  Philippot,  Joan 

wife  of  John,  147. 

,  Jolm,  147,  491. 

,     .  .  .  . ,    citizen    of    London, 

195. 
.  .  .  . ,     constable     of     the 

staple  of  Calais,  26. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  searcher  of  forfeitures 

at  Calais,  37. 
Philipp.   ,See  Philip. 


Philippa,  queen,  25,  44,  45,  46,  51, 
52,  57,  69,  85,  93,  154,  165, 
167,  172,  175,  187,  193,  227, 
242,  262,  263,  269,  271,  279, 
282,  346,  365,  367,  376,  377, 
387,  389,  396,  401,  424,  430, 
435,  460,  471,  482. 

,  attorney  of.    See  Ravensere, 

Richard  de. 

,  auditors  of  accounts  of,  424. 

See  also  Blockele,  John  de  ; 
Gosebourne,  John  de. 

,  bailiffs  of,  414. 

,  exchequer  of,  175,  263. 

,   grants  of  wardsliips  to .   5, 

15,  418. 

,  receiver  of.    See  Ravensere, 

Richard  de. 

,  steward    of    household     of. 

See  Lee,  John  atte. 

,  treasurer  of.   See  Ravensere, 

Richard  de. 

Philippot.    See  Philipot. 

Philipston,  Phelpeston  [parish  of 
Wimborne  St.  Giles],  co. 
Dorset,  manor  of,  8. 

Phipp,  William,  170. 

Phissh.    See  Fish. 

picage,  pikage,  20,  21,  443. 

Picard.    See  Pycard. 

Pickenham,  North,  Pykenhamwade, 
CO.  Norfolk,  advowson  of,  355. 

Pickering,  Pikeryng,  co.  York, 
honour  of,  328. 

Pickering  Lythe,  Pikerynglith,  forest 
of,  CO.  York,  regard  of,  260. 

Pickwell,  Pikwell,  co.  Leicester,  187. 

Picwell.    See  Pikwell. 

Piddington,  Pidynton,  co.  North- 
ampton,  435. 

,  Hackleton,  Hakelton  in,  435. 

,  CO.  Oxford,  Muswell  in,  230. 

piggery,  457,  458. 

Pightesle.    See  Pitchley. 

Pigott,  Geoffrey,  212. 

Cf.  Pycot. 

pikage.    See  picage. 

Pikard.    See  Pycard. 

Pikeryng.    See  Pickering. 

Pikeryng,  Pykering,  Pykeryng, 
James  de,  knight  of  the  shire 
of  Cumberland,  480. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  of  Westmore- 
land, 169. 

,  John,  269. 

Pikerynglith.     See  Pickering  Lythe. 

Pikwell.     See  Pickwell. 

Pikwell,  Picwell,  William  de,  clerk, 
43. 

,  . .  , . ,  parson  of  Trent,  188. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


623 


Pilewogh,  Peter,  92. 

pilgrimage  to  Canterbury,  3G3. 

pilgrims,  51,  324. 

Pillesmore,  eo.  Wilts,  19. 

Pinkney,  Pynkeneye  [co.  North- 
ampton], honour  of,  in  Herts, 
452. 

Pinley,  Pynlee  by  Coventry,  co. 
Warwick,  inanor  of,  288. 

Pipard,  Pyppard,  Margaret,  Mar- 
gery wife  of  William,  27,  34. 

,  Peter,  193. 

,  Richard,  498. 

,  William,  34. 

,  knight,  27. 

Pipewell  abbey,  co.  Northampton, 
presentation  of  monk  in,  434, 
435. 

piracy,  103. 

Pire,  Andrew  atte,  called  Bruett, 
318. 

Piriton,  Piryton,  Pyriton,  Pyryton, 
Adam  de,  498. 

,  Richard  de,  chamberlain  of 

the  exchequer,  114,  249. 

,  .  .  .  . , dismissal  of,  124, 

125. 

, ,  clerk,  83,  263. 

,....,  rector  of  Kempsey,  1 70. 

Pirpount,  Edmund,  knight,  17. 

Pirton,  Peryton,  co.  Hertford,  manor 
of,  452. 

Pirye.     See  Pyrie. 

Piryton.    See  Piriton,  Purton. 

Pisford,  CO.  Northampton,  279. 

Pishale,  John  de,  446. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  parson  of  Alderton,  46. 

Pisshobury,  Pishoubury,  Pisshou- 
bury  [in  Sawbridgeworth],  co. 
Hertford,  manor  of,  493,  494. 

Pistour,  William,  381. 

Cf.  Baker,  Pesto. 

Pitchley,  Pightesle,  co.  North- 
ampton, 426. 

plague,  the,  116,  240,  345. 

,  increase  of,  in  London,  426. 

Plaxton,  Robert  de,  195. 

Playz,  Playce,  John  de,  knight,  91. 

,   ....  son  of  Richard  de,  1 . 

,  Richard  de,   1. 

William,  justice,  57. 

Plecy,  Ida  wife  of  John  de,  226. 

,  John  de,  knight,  226. 

Cf.  Plescy,  Plesye. 

Plescy,  Elizabeth  wife  of  Hugh  de,  2. 

Hugh  de,  2. 

Cf.  Plecy,  Plesye. 

Plesebiiry,  Robert  de,  auditor  of 
account  of  lands  of  the  king's 
sons,   14. 


Plesleyo,  Robert  de,  baron  of  the 
exchequer,    115. 

Plesye,  Richard  de,  prior  of  Dun- 
mow,  171,  172. 

Plesyngton,  Robert  de,  384. 

Ploermel,  Plurimel,  Brittany  [dep. 
Morbihan],  castle  and  town 
of,  145. 

Plomer,  William,  leadbeater  of  Lon- 
don, 315. 

Plumbland,  co.  Cumberland,  Wart- 
hole,  WarthuU  in,  403. 

Plummuth.    See  Plymouth. 

Plumpton.    See  Plympton. 

Plumpton,  Christiana  wife  of  Wil- 
liam de,  knight,  96,  243,  331, 
332. 

Plumtrowe.    See  Plymtree. 

Plunket,  John,  233. 

,  Richard,  58,  233. 

Plurimel.    See  Ploermel. 

Plymouth,  Plummuth  [co.  Devon], 
bailiffs  of,  91,  370. 

,   bailiffs,   customers  etc.    of, 

136. 

,  mayor,  bailiffs  and  true  men 

of,  316. 

,  wreck  at,  316. 

Plympton,  Plumpton,  co.  Devon, 
204. 

,    deed  dated  at,  204. 

,    prior    of.       See    Paciencia, 

Ralph  de. 

,    ....    and  convent  of,    167, 

204. 

Plymtree,  Plumtrowe,  co.  Devon, 
manor  of,  74,  180,  266. 

Podemor.   See  Podmore. 

Podlicote.    See  Pudlicot. 

Podmore,  Podemor,  Richard  de, 
burgess  of  Newcastle-under- 
Lyme,   169. 

,    William    de,     of     Lulham, 

281. 

Podyngton.    See  Poyntington. 

Poghlee,  Alice  wife  of  John,  61. 

Pokbrige,  John  de,  knight,  405. 

Pokebroke.    See  Polebrook. 

Polders,  Poire  [in  Woodnesborough, 
CO.  Kent],  446. 

Pole,  la.    See  Poole. 

Pole,  Edmimd  de  la,  229,  230. 

,  Elizabeth  (de  Haudlo)  wife 

of  Edmund  de  la,  229,  230. 

,  Jolin  de  la,  161. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  son  of  William  de  la, 

knight,  lord  of  Castle  Ashby, 
396. 

,  Katherine  wife  of  William 

de  la,  the  elder,  245,  315. 


624 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Pok — cont. 

Michael    de     la,     knight, 

267. 
,   ....   son  of  William  de  la, 

245,  246. 

William     de     la,     lord     of 

Castle  Ashby,   172. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  the  elder,  knight,  245, 

246,  315. 

,   .  .  . . ,  the  younger,  knight, 

343. 
Polebrook,    Pokebroke,    co.    North- 
ampton, 374. 
,    parson   of.      See   Thelwall, 

Thomas  de. 
Polhampton,    Richard    de,    knight, 

271. 
PoUavn,  Robert,  430. 
Polled  John  de,  52. 
Poire.    See  Polders. 
Polstead,  Polsted,  Posted  [co.  Suf- 
folk], manor  of,  186. 
Polynges,  William  de,  466. 
Pomeray,   Henry   de   la,    the   elder, 

364. 
,    ....    son   of   Henry   de  la, 

364. 
,  Joan  wife  of  Henry  de  la, 

364. 

,  Nicholas  de  la,  163. 

Pompy,  Richard,  reeve  of  Hartest,  2. 

Ponde,  Adam  atte,  366. 

,  Richard  atte,  of  Tilsworth 

394. 

,  Roger  atte,  211. 

Cf.  Peimde. 

pontage,    20,     21,     39,     102,     341, 

443. 
Ponte,  Joan  wife  of  Richard,  142. 

,  Richard,  142. 

Pontefract,    co.    York,    honour    of, 

250. 

,  Coghill  in,  7,  59. 

Pontesbury,     co.     Salop,     Longden, 

Longesdon  in,  367. 
Ponthieu     [France],      lordsliip      of, 

receiver    of    issues    of.      See 

Louthe,  Nicholas  de. 
,     .  .  .  . ,     steward     of.         See 

Lovayne,  Nicholas  de. 
Ponygh',  Luke  de,  knight,  472. 
Ponynges,       Agnes       daughter       of 

Michael  de,  263. 
,  Michael,  de  knight,  45,  262, 

263. 
Ponyngfold.    See  Paddingfold. 
Pool,      Pulle      [in      Eastham],     co. 

Chester,  port  of,  227. 
,  South,  Suthpole,  co.  Devon, 

manor  of,  74,  180,  266. 


Poole,  la  Pole  [co.  Dorset],  bailiffs 
of,  91. 

,   bailiffs,   customers   etc.    of, 

137. 

Poorstock,  Pourestoke  [co.  Dorset], 
manor  of,  5. 

Pope,  John,  goldsmith,  coroner  for 
Gloucestershire,    331. 

,  Richard,  459. 

Popelir.    See  Poplar. 

Popham,  Henry  de,  406,  486. 

Poplar,  Popelir,  co.  Middlesex, 
manor  of,  53. 

Porchester,  Porchestre  [co.  Hants], 
406. 

Portbridge,  Portebrig  [site  of  Dart- 
ford  powder-mills,  co.  Kent], 
manor  of,  185. 

Portbury,  co.  Somerset,  manor  of, 
437. 

Portebrig.   See  Portbridge. 

Porter,  John,  chaplain,  293. 

,  John  le,  of  Woburn, 

60. 

,  Roger,  chandler,  307. 

,  Walter,  375. 

William,  78. 

Portesheved.    See  Portishead. 

Porteslade.    See  Portslade. 

Portesmuth.    See  Portsmouth. 

Portishead,  Portesheved,  co.  Somer- 
set, 437. 

,  manor  of,  437. 

Portreve,  Robert,  394. 

Portslade,  Porteslade,  co.  Sussex, 
manor  of,  472. 

Portsmouth,  Portesmuth  [co.  Hants], 
mayor  and  bailiffs  of,  91. 

Posted.    See  Polstead. 

Postu,  Guy  de,  merchant  of  Lucca, 
420. 

Pot,  Thomas,  289. 

Potcote,  Potecoate,  Potecot  [in  Cold 
Higham],  co.  Northampton, 
307,  434. 

Potel,  Potell,  Nicholas,  coroner  for 
Devon,  259. 

Stephen,  coroner  for  Devon, 

321,  362. 

Pottelay.    See  Putley. 

Pottenham.   See  Puttenham. 

Potter,  WiUiam,  491. 

,  William  Terry  called,  387. 

Potter  Han  worth,  Potterhayn  worth 
[co.  Lincoln],  parson  of.  See 
Hameldene,  Thomas  de. 

Potterspury,  Estpirye,  co.  North- 
ampton, 384. 

Potteworth.  See  Petworth. 

Pouer.    See  Power. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


625 


Poiikeslo.    See  Puxloy. 

Poiint  Robert.      See  Itobortsbridgo. 

Poui'estoke.    See  Poorstock. 

Poutrell.  Eii'hard,  305. 

Power,  Pouer,  Bartholomew,  391. 

,  Nicliolas,  99. 

Thomas  son  of  Nicholas,  99. 

,  Walter,  clerk,  92. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  of  chancery,  499. 

,  William,  376. 

Powis,  Powys  [co.  Montgomery], 
lord  of.  See  Charlcton, 
John  do. 

Powke,  Robert,  162. 

,  Thomas,  102. 

Powys.    See  Powis. 

Powys,  John,  133. 

Poyns.    See  Poyntz. 

Poyntington,  Podyngton.  co.  Somer- 
set, 248. 

Poynton,  Walter  de,  350. 

Poyntz,  Poyns,  John,  John  de,  du, 
knight,  of  Gloucestershire,  61, 
62. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Gloucester,  480. 

Nicholas,  knight,   164,   375. 

Prat,  John,  396. 

Predyaux,  Robert,  260. 

Prentys,  John,  bailiff  of  Lincoln,  414. 

,  William,  366. 

Prestecote,  William,  69. 

Preston,  co.  Durham,  418. 

[in  Ellingham],  co.  North- 
umberland, 425. 

,  CO.  York,  315. 

by     Wingham,     Wyngham 

[CO.  Kent],  373. 

Candover,    Candevere    [co. 

Hants],  manor  of,  486. 

Capes,  CO.  Northampton,  307, 

308,  434. 

-under-Sear,  Preston  by  Lay- 
burn  [co.  York],  deed  dated 
at,  212. 

manor  of,  212. 

Preston,  Alexander  de,  425,  426. 

,   Jolin  de,   controller  in   the 

port  of  Newcastle-upon-Tyne, 
252. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Westmoreland,   480. 

,  Ralph  de,  425. 

,  Richard  de,  mayor  of  Calais, 

291,  292. 

,  Thomas  de,  bailiff  of  Otford 

and  Stoneham,  456. 

,    William,    of    Lincolnshire, 

379,  380. 

Prestrede  in  Glusburn,  co.  York,  360, 


Prestwode,  Henry  de,  escheator  in 
Gloucestershire  and  Hereford- 
shire, 109. 
Prille,  Nicholas,  of  Ludlow,  farmer 
of  subsidy,  203,  281. 

,  Richard,  203. 

Prilly,  Hugh  son  of  Peter,  347. 

,   William  brother  of   Hugh, 

347. 
Prince,  Richard,  462. 
proclamations  : — 

concerning  knighthood,  266. 

marking  of  cutlery,  182. 

enjoining    practice    of    archery, 

181,   182. 
excluding  Scottish  and  foreign 

coins,  404,  405. 
forbidding    dissensions    in    Ire- 
land, 63,  64. 

exchange  of  money  by 

unauthorised  persons,  79,  80. 

export  of  corn,  288. 

etc.  from  Ire- 
land, 453. 

of  fish,  36. 

of    horses,    wool, 

bows,  etc.  49,  370. 

of  money,   letters 

etc.,  30,  31,  52,  90,  135,  137, 
140,  141. 

persons  to  cross  the  sea 

without  licence,  6. 

to   leave    Ireland 

without  licence,  58. 
made  in  church  at  high  mass, 

202. 
of  assizes,  275. 
of  market,  460. 
regulating  sale  of  cloth,   88,  376. 

sale  of  wine,  212,  310, 

470. 
Pro  van,  Peter,  152. 
Provana,  Bernard  de,  414. 
Prowde,  Henry  le,  162. 
Pruet,  Richard,  464. 
Prussia  [port  of]    ?    Lespruce,    ship 

laded  at,  442. 
Prys,  John,  coroner  for  co.  Hereford, 

145. 

Puck      Shipton,       Pukeshepyn      [in 

Beechingstoke],      co.      Wilts, 

manor  of,  493. 

Pudele  Hynton.     See  Puddlehinton. 

Pudeletrentehide.     See  Puddletrent- 

hide. 
Pudelmusterton.    See  Muston. 
Puddlehinton,    Pudele    Hynton,    co. 
Dorset,   481. 

,  Muston,  Pudelmusterton  in, 

93. 

E  40 


626 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Puddletrenthide,     Pudeletrentehide, 

CO.  Dorset,  481. 
Pudlicot,   Podlicote   [in   Charlbiiry], 

CO.  Oxford,  fee  in,  496. 
Pukeshepyn.     See  Puck  Shipton. 
PuUe.     See  Pool. 
Pulteneye,    Pultenay,    John,    John 

de,  knight,  52,  324,  343,  347. 
,  Margaret  wife  of  John  de, 

324. 
wife  of  Wilham  de,  35, 

52,  53,  343,  347. 
,    Wilham     de,    knight,    52, 

63. 
,    ....   son  of  John  de,   324, 

343,  347. 
Pulter,  John,  481,  482. 
Pulton,  John  de,  73. 
Punchardon,   Richard,    Richard   de, 

217,  218,  272,  373. 
Puppe,  Geoffrey,  stockfishmonger  of 

London,  487. 
Piircel,  John,  182. 
Purchace,     Purchas,     Ede,     Eudo, 

Odo,   draper  of  London,  97, 

208,  279,  469. 
Purlee,    William,    of    Wymondham, 

501. 
Purleigh,  Purlee,  co.  Essex,  parson 

of.     See  Philip,  John. 
Purslowe,  John  de,  129. 
Purton,    Piryton    [in     Lydney,     co. 

Gloucester],  18. 
Pury,  John,  486. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  sherifiE  of  Oxfordshire, 

142. 
Puryford,  William,  503. 
Pusy,  John,  281. 

Putley,  Pottelay,  co.  Hereford,  248. 
Putmede  by  Bishopstrow  [co.  Wilts], 

193,  194. 
Puttenham,   Pottenham,   Roger   de, 

knight,  368,  394. 
knight  of  the  shire  of 

Buckingham,   168,  273,  480. 
Puttone,  William,  485. 
puture,  338. 
Puxley,  Poukesle  [in  Passenham],  co. 

Northampton,  384. 
Pycard,     Picard,     Pikard,    Pykard, 

Geoffrey,   309. 

,  Hugh,  271,  387. 

,    John,    merchant    of    York, 

296. 
,  Margaret  daughter  of  John, 

of  York,  296. 
,  ....  wife  of  Henry,  of  Lon- 
don, 65. 
Pychard,  Elizabeth  wife  of  William, 

155. 


Pycot,  Pykot,  Bartholomew,  466. 
,    Elizabeth    (Bluet)    wife    of 

Bartholomew,  466. 

Maud  wife  of  Robert,  205. 

,  Robert,  168,  197,  201,  202. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    draper,    of    London, 

199,  205. 

Cf.  Pigott. 

Pyel,  Pyle,  John,  12,  13. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  65. 

,  mayor  of  the  staple  of 

Westminster, 97,  106,  171,  278. 
,    .  .  .  . ,  merchant  of  London, 

398V 

,  Robert,  chaplain,  34. 

Pykard,    See  Pycard. 

Pyke,  Eleanor  wife  of  John,  22. 

Pykeman,  Giles,  493. 

Pykenhamwade.    See  Pickenham. 

Pykering,  Pykeryng.    See  Pikeryng. 

Pykot.    See  Pycot. 

Pylat,  WiUiam,  350. 

Pyle.    See  Pyel. 

Pylkyngton,   Pylkynton,   Roger  de, 

knight  of   the  shire   of   Lan- 
caster, 169,  480. 
Pymme,  William,  92. 
Pympe,  William,  65,  66,  198. 
Pynk,  William,  of  Bassingbourn,  69. 
Pynkeneye.    See  Pinkney. 
Pynkeny,  Arnald  de,  clerk,  294. 
Pynlee.  See  Pinley. 
Pynner,  Thomas,  of  Coventry,  281. 
Pynnok,  John,  369. 

,  Simon,  265. 

,  William,  parson  of  Cherring- 

ton,  265. 
Pynson,  William,  73. 
Pj^pe,  James,  de  309. 
,    ....    son  of  Margaret  wife 

of  John,  410. 

,  Margaret  wife  of  John,  410. 

,  Thomas  de,  coroner  for  co. 

Stafford,  101. 
Pyppard.    See  Pipard. 
Pyrie,  Pirye,  John,  268. 
Pyriton,  Pyryton.    See  Piriton. 


Quantockshead,      West,     Westcant- 
okesheve   [co.  Somerset],  247. 
Quappelade.    See  Whaplode. 
Quappelade,  William  de,  467. 
quayage,  keyage,  20,  443. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


627 


queen's  gold,  148,  149. 
Queensboroucli,  Quonosburgh  in  tho 

isle    of    Shepeye    [co.    Kent), 

staple  removed  to,  478,  479. 
Quenton,  William  do,  knight  of  the 

shire  of  Northampton,  168. 
Querneby,  John  de,  clerk,  383,  487. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  king's  clerk,  48. 

Querton,  Hugh  de,  71. 

Quinton,  Quynton  [co.  Gloucester], 

deed  dated  at,  68. 
,   rector   of.      See   Morehalle, 

Thomas  de  la. 
quoits,  prohibition  of,  181. 
Qviynton.     See  Quinton. 
Qujniyld,  Jolm,  318. 


R 

Raby  [parish  of  Staindrop],  co. 
Durham,  268. 

Radcliffe-on-Trent,  Radclyf  [co. 
Nottingham],  parson  of.  See 
Kyneton,  Jolin  de. 

Radclyf,  Radeclif,  Jolin  de,  of 
Chadderton,  297. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  son  of  John  de,  297, 

298. 

Robert  de,  297. 

,  Roger  de,  the  elder,  knight 

of  the  shire  of  Lancaster,  480. 

William  son  of  Robert  de, 

knight  of  the  shire  of  Lan- 
caster, 273. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,    of   Lancashire, 

297. 

,  ....  son  of  William  de,  384. 

Radenore.    See  Radnor. 

Radewell,  .James  de,  citizen  of  Lon- 
don, 398. 

Radewynter.  See  Radwinter. 

Radnor,  Radenore  [co.  Radnor], 
keeper  of  lordship  of,  371. 

Radston,  Roddeston  [co.  North- 
ampton], manor  of,  200. 

Radwinter,  Radewynter  [co.  Essex], 
377. 

,    Litle    Radewynter,    fee    in, 

496. 

Rag,  Robert,  monk  of  Bruern,  492, 
493. 

Rageland.    See  Raglan. 

RagenliuU,  Jolm,  fisher,  57. 


Raghton.     See  Raughton. 
Raghton,  Robert  do,  416. 

,  Thomas  son  of  Robert  de, 

416,  425. 
Raglan,   Rageland  [co.   Monmouth], 

466. 
Ragoun,  John,  knight  of  tho  shire 

of  Bedford,   480. 
Rainham,     Reynham     [co.     Essex], 
205. 

,    South   Hall,    Southalle,    in, 

108. 
Rake,  Roland,  489. 
Raketon,      Roger     de,     citizen     of 

Chichester,   169. 
Ralegh,    Thomas,    Thomas    de,    of 

Charles,   18,   109. 
Ralph,  Rauf,  William,  of  Driffield, 
431. 

See  Fitz  Ralph. 

Rame,  Ram,  John  atte,  78,  307. 
Rameseye.     See  Ramsey. 
Rammesdene.    See  Ramsden. 
Rammeseye.    See  Ramsey. 
Rammeseye,     William,     bvu-gess     of 

Dimstable,   302. 
Rampton,  co.  Cambridge,  493. 

,  advowson  of,  493. 

,  manor  of,  493. 

Ramsden  Barrington,  Rammesdene 
[in  Ramsden  Bellhouse,  co. 
Essex],  174. 
Ramsej',  Rameseye,  Rammeseye, 
Raumesseye  abbey  [co.  Hun- 
tingdon], 361. 

,  abbot  of,  497. 

,  Richard  abbot  of,  225.    See 

also  Shenyngton,  Richard  de. 

,  vacancy  of,  225. 

Ramsgreave,  Romesgreve  [in  Black- 
burn], CO.  Lancaster,  239, 
249. 
Randekyn,  Walter,  burgess  of  Hor- 
sham, 481. 
Randolf,  Randolph,  Geoffrey, 
coroner  for  co.  York,  413, 
418. 

,  John,  364. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    prebendary   of   Dun- 

ston,  467. 
ransom  of  David  de  Bruys,  235. 

of  king  of  France,  235. 

Rasen,  Jolin  de,  clerk,  467. 
Raskelf,  co.  York,  manor  of,  361. 
Rathkeale,    Rathgel,    Rathgell,    co. 
Limerick,  manor  of,  154,  180. 
Rauf.   See  Fitz  Ralph,  Ralph. 
Raughton,  Raghton  [in  Dalston],  co. 

Cumberland,  416. 
Raulyn,  Thomas,  190, 


628 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Raumesseye.     See  Ramsey. 
Raundes,  Richard,  267. 
Raunds,  co.  Northampton,  99,   152. 
Raureth.     See  Rawreth. 
Ravendale,  Michael  de,  476. 
,  clerk,  55,  68,  77,  78, 

83,  205,  261,  269,  270,  272, 
307. 

Ravendale,     West,     Westravendale, 

[CO.  Lincoln],  87.  88. 
Raveneser.    See  Ravensere. 
Ravenesthorp,  Robert  de,  431,  432. 
Ravensere     [co.     York — submerged], 

315. 

,  bailiffs  of,  52. 

Ravensere,    Raveneser,  Richard  de, 

canon  of    St.  Mary's  church, 

Lincoln,    365. 
,    ....,  clerk,  45,  51,  66,  83, 

84,  86,  200,  205,  262,  263, 
268,  272,  280,  296,  306,  365, 
385,  394,  400,  401,  402,  465, 
477,  482,  491. 

,  . . . . ,  ....  of  chancery,  499. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  keeper  of  the  hanaper 

of  chancery,  335. 

,   king's  clerk,  345. 

,     .  .  .  . ,     .  .  .  . ,    administrator 

of   the   goods   of   Isabel,    the 

queen  mother,  431. 
,   .  ,  .  . ,  provost  of  St.  John's, 

Beverley,   201. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  receiver  of  the  queen's 

moneys,  187. 
,    .  .  .  . ,  the  queen's  attorney, 

85,  172,  367,  376,  482. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  the  queen's  treasurer, 

28,  29,  44,  46,  193,  282,  345, 

377,   387,   408. 
,    .  .  .  . ,    warden   of   St.    Leo- 
nard's hospital,  York,  100. 
Ravenston,  Simon  de,  497. 
Rawcliffe    [by    Goole],   Rouclif,   co. 

York,  12. 
Rawebankes      in      Inglewood,      co. 

Cumberland,   427. 
Rawreth.  Raureth,  co.  Essex,  272. 

,  manor  of,  243. 

Ray  (mill),  le  Reyelond  in  Cookham, 

CO.  Berks,  367. 
Ray,  John,   of  Coventrv,  farmer  of 

subsidv,  71.  89,  281. 

,  Thomas,  of  Fleet,  277. 

Cf.  Reye. 

Raydon,  Roydon,  co.  Suffolk,  Merkes 

in,  186. 
Ray  gate.     See  Reygate. 
Rayleigh,      Relegh,      Reylegh,      co. 

Essex,  432. 
,  honour  of.  243,  432. 


Raymes,  Nicholas  de,  prisoner,  85. 
Reade,  Peter,  collector  of  custom  at 

Dover,  215. 

Cf.  Reed. 

Reading,     Redyng,     Redynges     [co. 

Berks],  abbot  and  convent  of, 

76. 

,  road  from  Farnham  to,  503. 

,  Southcote  in,  107,  208. 

,  Whitley  in,  107. 

Reche,  John  atte,  370. 

Recolvre,  Thomas  son  of  William  de, 

of  Kent,  84. 
Redberd,  Thomas,  chaplain,  22,  23. 
Redcar,  Ridker,  Rvdker  in    Marsk, 

CO.  York,  286. 

,  mill  in,  286. 

,  places  named  in,  284-285. 

,   ferry  of  the  Melhoddes  at, 

286. 
Red   Castle   [parish   of   Weston,   co. 

Salop],  lord  of.    See  Audeleye, 

James. 
Redenesse,  William  de,  clerk,  212. 
Redenhall,  Redenhale,    co.  Norfolk, 

manor  of,  216. 
Redesdale,  co.  Northumberland,  pas- 
tares,  etc.  named  in,  439,  440. 
Redford,  Ralph  de,  274. 
Redhogh,  Hugh  de,  del,  160,  171. 
Redmane,   Thomas  de,   coroner  for 

Westmoreland,    130. 
Red^vick,    Redwyk    in    Magor    [co. 

Monmouth],   352,   353. 
Red5mg.     See  Reading. 
Redyng,  Henry,  195. 

,  Johnde,  192. 

Redvnges.    See  Reading. 
Reed,  John,  211. 

Cf.  Reade. 

Reigate,  Reygate,  co.  Surrey,   178. 

,  deed  dated  at,  466. 

Reigate.     See  Reygate. 
Relegh.     See  Rayleigh. 
Remmesleye.    See  Romsley. 
Renhold,  Ronhale,  co.  Bedford,  434, 

435. 
Repton,  Repvndon,  co.  Derby,  475. 

,  mUl  in,  475. 

......  park  of,  475. 

Repynghale.    See  Rippingale. 
Repynghale,  John  de,  84,   192,  274, 

296. 
Reresby,  Thomas  de,  knight,  coroner 

of  York,   16. 
Resshebok,  William  de,  knight,  279. 
Restwald,   Restwold,   Ralph,   Ralph 

de,  166,  173,  208,  302,  386. 

,  Thomas,  195. 

,  . .  .  . ,  of  Berkshire,  1 65. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


629 


Rotford,  William  de,  treasurer  of 
the  housohold,   10. 

Retheresthrop.     See   Rothersthorpe. 

Retherfold.    See  Rotlierfield. 

Retherwyk.    See  Rothervvick. 

Rothresthorpe.     See  Rothersthorpe. 

Rettendon,  Retyngdon  [co.  Essex], 
197. 

Revel,  Robert,  496. 

Roye,  William  son  of  Nicholas  atte, 
of  Cookham,  367. 

Cf.  Ray. 

Reyelond.    See  Ray  (mill). 

Reygate.    See  Reigato.' 

Reygate,  Raygate,  Reigate,  James 
de,  of   Yorkshire,   274. 

, ,    Williain    de,    escheator    in 

Cumberland,  3,  35,  38,  41, 
219,  338. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    ....   in  Northmnber- 

land,  96,  140,  147,  219,  221, 
234,   332,  426. 

,  . .  .  . ,  ....  in  Westmore- 
land, 35,  219,  240. 

,   .  .  .  . ,   ....   in  Yorkshire,  7, 

17,  20,  34,  105,  108,  131,  140, 
143,  146,  219,  239,  245-429, 
259,  260,  282,  330,  412,  413. 

Reygnis.    See  Reynes. 

Reylegh.    See  Rayleigh. 

Reyner,  Thomas,   42. 

,  William,  392. 

Reynes,  Reygnis,  Thomas  de,  357. 

, ,  knight,  54,  175,  389. 

Reynham.     See  Rainham. 

Reynliam,  Simon,  mercer  of  Lon- 
don, 55. 

Reynold,  Richard,  386. 

Reyson,  John,  22. 

Thomas  son  of  John,  22. 

Ribbesford,  co.  Worcester,  262. 

,  chm-ch  of,  262. 

,  hall  etc.  of,  262. 

,  manor  of,   158,  262. 

,  places  named  in,  262. 

,  rector  of,  262. 

Ribbesford,  Constance  wife  of 
Walter  de,  158,  262. 

,  Walter  de,  158. 

,     ....     son    of    Walter    de, 

158. 

Richard   I,    charters   of,    445,    492. 

Richard,  CJeofTrey,  of  Leverington, 
277. 

,  Gilbert,  65. 

,   John   son   of,    de   Styholm, 

319. 

,  Ricliard  son  of,  de  Heming- 

tone,  77. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  de  Kirkelevyngton,  3. 


Richard — cont. 

,  Thomas  son  of,  tic  Covono, 

311. 

See  Fitz  Ricliard. 

Richemund.    See  Richmond. 
Richildo,  Thomas,   313. 

,  William,  313. 

Ricliinond,       Richemund,       Ryche- 

mund,      [co.      York],      arch- 
deaconry of,  151. 
,   earl  of.     See  John  duke  of 

Lancaster. 
,    honour   of,     bailiffs    of,    in 

Norfolk,  216. 
Rickling,  Ryclyngg  [co.  Essex],  366. 
Rickmansworth,      Rykemeresvvorth, 

CO.  Hertford,  459. 
Ridgmont,        Rougemont,        Rouge 

Mount    (Rubius    Mons)    [co. 

Bedford],  lord  of.    See  Insula, 

Robert  de. 
Rugeinound  [in  Burstwick, 

CO.  York],  315. 
Ridker.    See  Redcar. 
Rightwys,  Thomas  son  of  John,  of 

King's     Lynn,     coroner     for 

Norfolk,    156. 
Rimswell  [parish  of  Owthorne],  co. 

York,  manor  of,  245. 
Ringborough,  Ryngburghneuton 

[parish    of    Aldborough],    co. 

York,  101. 
Ringeshell,  Ringesselle.     See  Rings- 
hall, 
rings,  gold,  441. 

,  theft  of,  434. 

Ringshall,    Ringeshall,     Ringesselle, 

CO.  Suffolk,  fees  in,  497. 
Ringstede,    Thomas    de,    bishop    of 

Bangor,  358. 
riot,  alleged,  at  Exeter,  264. 
Rippeton.     See  Abbots  Rijoton. 
Rippingale,  Repynghale,  co.  Lincoln, 

manor  of,  427. 
Ripton.    See  Abbots  Ripton. 
Risborough,    Monks     [co.    Buclcing- 

ham],     Owlswick,     Ulneswyk 

in,  172. 
Risceby,  Risseby,  Russheby,  Rysce- 

by,    William   de,   king's    yeo- 
man,    ganger     of     wines     in 

Chester  and  Ireland,  132. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Bedford,   168. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Hvmtingdon,  273,  480. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  the  younger,  400. 

Rise,  Ryse  in  Holdernesse,  co.  York, 

church  and  chantry  of,   295. 
,  manor  of,  295,  310. 


630 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Rishangles,  Ryshangles,  co.  Suffolk, 

manor  of,  474. 
Risseby.    See  Risceby. 
Risshedon,  Risshyndon.   (SeeShepney 

Castle. 
Rivers,  Margery  de  les,  496. 
Roan,  Roay.    See  Rouen  ? 
Robardes,     William,     of    Cantilupe, 

161. 

Cf.  Roberdes. 

Robekyn,  Richard,  394,  395. 
Robelyn,  Adam,  clerk,  159. 
Roberd,  Peter,  396. 
Roberdes,  Thomas,  chaplain,  389. 

Cf.  Robardes. 

Robert,  Alan,  merchant  of  Cornwall, 

102,   103. 

,  ....  son  of,  neif ,  285. 

,  John  son  of,  282. 

,  lodeman  called,  442. 

,  Ralph,  190. 

,  Robert  son  of,  de  Stapilton, 

267. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  son  of  Alan,  285. 

,  William  son  of,  285. 

Robertsbridge,    Fount    Robert,    co. 

Sussex,  abbot  of,  495. 

,  monks  of,  497. 

Robychon,    John,    of    Finchingfield, 

490. 
Robyn,  Richard,  of  Middlesex,  93. 
Roche,  Gilbert  de  la,  270. 
,  Margaret  wife  of  Gilbert  de 

la,  270. 
Rocheford,  John  de,  knight,  274. 

,  Thomas,  366,  386. 

, ,  of  Essex,  269. 

Rochester,     Roucestre,      co.     Kent, 

495. 

,  bailiffs  of,  206,  212,  215. 

,  keeper  of  bishopric  of,  89. 

Roche-sur-Yon,  Rochezanes  [Poitou, 

dep.  Vendee],  castle  of,  145. 
Rock,  la  Rook,  co.  Worcester,  158. 
Rockhampton,      Rokhampton,      co. 

Gloucester,  19. 
Rockingham,        Rokyngham        [co. 

Northampton],       castle       of, 

constable  of,  159. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  prison  in,  159. 

,  forest  of,  240. 

prison  at,  240,  339. 

Rodborne  Cheney,  co.  Wilts,  Haydon 

in,   498. 
Roddeston.    See  Radston. 
Rodelond,  John,  of  Norwich,  179. 
Rodyngton,  Robert,  parson  of  Clax- 

done,  474. 
Roger,    John   son   of,    de   Garboldi- 

aham,   378. 


Roger — cont. 

,  Thomas  son  of,  de  Holtale, 

194,  195,  199. 

,  William  son  of,  neif,  285. 

See  Fitz  Roger. 

Roke,  Rook,  Richard,  398. 

, ,  the  elder,  48,  82. 

,  . .  .  . ,  . .  .  . ,  of  Westminster, 

268. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the  younger,  48,  82. 

Rokeby,  Thomas  de,  knight,  192. 
Rokele,  Geoffrey,   173. 

,  John,  463. 

,  Richard,  heirs  of,  497. 

Rokesleye,  Richard,  495. 

,  Walter  de,  495. 

Rokesburgh.      See  Roxburgh,   Rox- 
burghshire. 
Rokesburgh,  William,  306. 
Rokewode.    See  Rokwode. 
Rokhampton.    See  Rockhampton. 
Rokwode,     Rokewode,     Rookwode, 

John  de,  186,  279. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Suffolk,  480. 

,    of  Suffolk,  56. 

,  Thomas  brother  of  John  de, 

56,   165. 

de.   175. 

Rokyngham.    See  Rockingham. 
Rome,    cardinal    of    the    chiirch    of. 

See  Fitz  Urse,  Reynold. 
,  court  of,  90,   126,   151,  205, 

318,  321,  348,  490. 

,  pope  of.     See  Urban  VI. 

,     restriction    in     diplomatic 

relations  with,  90. 

,  see  of,  appeal  to,  379. 

Romene,  Romeneye.    See  Romney. 
Romeneye,  John  de,  prior  of  Bilsing- 

ton,  348. 
Romesgreve.    See  Ramsgreave. 
Romesy,  Amice  wife  of  John  de,  189. 

,  John  de,  188,  189. 

,  Margery  mother  of  John  de, 

189. 
,  Thomas  brother  of  John  de, 

189. 
Romney,    Romene,    Romeneye,    co. 

Kent,  bailiffs  of,  91,  136.  137. 

,  customers  etc.  of,  136. 

marsh,  289. 

,  Old,  Old  Comene  [co.  Kent], 

372. 
Romsey,  co.  Hants,  51. 
Romsley,  Remmesleye  [in  Alveley], 

CO.  Salop,  338. 
Romylogh,     Stephen,     constable    of 

Nottingham  castle,  417. 
Ronhale.     See  Renhold. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


631 


Roo,  John  le,  of  Slialford,  433. 

Cf.  Rous. 

Rook.    See  Roke. 

Rook,  la.  See  Rock. 

Rookwode:    See  Rokwodo. 

Roos,  Ros,  Beatrice  wife  of  Thomas 
de,  of  Hehiisley,  326. 

,   Nicholas  de,  clerk,  master, 

warden  of  King's  Hall,  Cam- 
bridge, 86,  141,  142,  221, 
266. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    .  .  .  . ,  books  received 

by,  408. 

,  Thomas  de,  bailiffs  of,  414. 

,   ,  of  Helmsley,  40,  129, 

326,  482. 

,  ....  brother  of  William  son 

of  William  de,  430. 

,    William    de,    of    Helmsley, 

430. 

Roothing.     See  Berners  Roothing. 

Ros.     See  Roos. 

Rosbercon,  Rosbergoun,  co.  Kil- 
kenny, borough  of,  424. 

Rose,  Alice,  282. 

,  Edmund,  122,  258. 

,  Margery  wife  of  Roger,  172, 

173. 

,  Roger,  172,  173. 

Roskyn,  Thomas  son  of  Richard,  of 
Melton  Mowbray,  501. 

Rote,  John,  72,  173,  188. 

,    Thomas,     keeper      of     the 

gaol  of  Newcastle-upon-Tyne, 
36. 

Roteland.    See  Rutland. 

Rothbury,  Roubiry,  co.  Northumber- 
land, manor  of,  140,  438. 

Hepple,  Hephale  in,  147. 

,  Newtown,  Neuton  in,  140. 

,  Snitter,  Sny ter  in,  1 40. 

,  Thorpton,  Tliropton  in,  140. 

Tossen,  Tossam  in,  320,  337. 

Rothe,  Stephen  atte,  295. 

Rotherfield,  Retherfeld  [co.  Sussex], 
parson     of.  See     Dautre, 

Walter. 

Greys,    Retherfeld,    Rother- 

feld,  Rothurfeld,  Rutherfeld 
[CO.  Oxford],  44,  58,  353,  465, 
471,   472,   474. 

,  fee  in,  496. 

Rotherhithe  [co.  Surrey],  letters 
close  dated  at,  481. 

Rothersthorpe,  Retheresthrop,  Reth- 
resthorpe,  co.  Northampton, 
434. 

,  manor  of,  307. 

Rotherwick,  Retherwyk  [co.  Hants], 
486. 


Rothowoll,  John  do,  clerk,  of  North- 
amptonshire,  401. 

,  William  do,  464. 

, ,  of  Titchmarsh,  366. 

Rothurfeld.     iS'ce  Rotherfield  Greys. 

Rothyng,   Henry,   497. 

Rothyngberners.  See  Berners  Rooth- 
ing. 

Roubiry.    See  Rothbury. 

Rouceby,  John  do,  121. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  king's  clerk,  con- 
troller of  works  at  Windsor, 
412. 

Rouccstre.    See  Rochester. 

Rouchester,  Rouchastro  [in  Oving- 
ham],  CO.  Northumberland, 
439. 

Rouclif.     See  Rawclift'e. 

Roudene,  John,  166,  173. 

Roudham,  co.  Norfolk,  fees  in,  497. 

Rouen  ?  Roan,  Roay,  burgess  of, 
384,  408. 

Rougemont,  Rouge  Mount.  See 
Ridgmont. 

Roughton,  CO.  Lincoln,  322,  323. 

[in  Worfield],  co.  Salop,  25. 

Rouland,  John,  470. 

Rounfare,  William,  of  Skirlaugh, 
193. 

Rous,  John,  65,  66,  72. 

, le,  83.  ■' 

Cf.  Roo.  r 

Routhe,  Peter  de,  86. 

Routhebery,  William  de,  clerk,  338. 

Rowe,  Richard,   171. 

Rowehull,  la  [near  Windsor,  co. 
Berks],  133. 

Roxburgh,  Rokesburgh  [Roxburgh- 
shire, Scotland],  deed  dated 
at,   194. 

Roxburghshire,  county  of  Rokes- 
burgh [Scotland],   194. 

Roydon.     See  Raydon. 

Roystone,  co.  York,  Chevet  in,  383. 

,  Notton  in,  193. 

,  Woolley,  Wolvelay  in,   193. 

Rubiiis  Mons.    See  Ridgmont. 

Rud,  John,  166,  173. 

Rudde,  Thomas,  cliaplain  of  chantry 
in  church  of  St.  John 
Zachary,  London,  450. 

Rufforth,  Rugford,  co.  York,  manor 
of,  360. 

Ruffyn,  Ralph,  495. 

Rugemound.    See  Ridgmont. 

Rugford.     iS'ee  Rufforth. 

Rushall,  Ruysshale,  co.  Stafford,  32. 

Rushenden.     See  Shepney  Castle. 

Rushton,  Ryssheton,  co.  Northamp- 
ton,  127 


632 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Russel,  John,  184. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  chaplain,  484,  485. 

,  Richard,  367. 

,  Robert,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Worcester,  168. 
Russheby.    See  Risceby. 
Russheton,  John  de,  138,  139. 
Rustington,  Rustyngton,  co.  Sussex, 

manor  of,  427. 
Rutherfeld.     >See  Rotherfield  Greys. 
Ruthin,  Ruthyn  [co.  Denbigh],  467. 
Ruthyn,  Robert,  398. 
Rutland,  Roteland,  county  of,  44. 
,  escheator  in.   See  Wydoville, 

Richard. 

,  forest  of,  42. 

,    .  .  .  . ,   election  of  verderers 

of,  130,  360. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  169, 

480. 
,  service  of  destroying  vermin 

in,  411,  426. 

,  sheriff  of,  42,  130,  335,  360. 

,  subsidy  in,  203,  380. 

Ruycote,  John,  of  Oxfordshire,  294. 
Ruysshale.  See  Rushall. 
Ruyton,  Thomas  de,  161. 

Cf.  Ryghton. 

Ry,  Thomas  de,  203. 
Rychemund.     See  Richmond. 
Ryclyngg.    See  Rickling. 
Rydale.    See  Ryedale. 
Rydell,  Thomas,  prisoner,  150. 
Rydere,  Robert,  269. 
Rydker.    See  Redcar. 
Rydyngherssh,  John  de,  83. 

,  ....  son  of  John  de,  83. 

Rye  [co.  Sussex],  customers  etc.  of, 

137. 
,   mayor   and   bailiffs   of,    91, 

137. 
rye,   455. 
Ryedale,  Rydale  [co.  York],  bailiffs 

of.  See  Baker,  John  ;  Malton, 

John  de. 
Ryfeld,  Sir  John,  chaplain,  161. 
Ryghton,  William  de,  20. 

,  ....  son  of  William  de,  20. 

Cf.  Ruyton. 

Ryhull,  Robert  de,  357. 
Rykemeresworth.       See    Rickmans- 

wortli. 
Ryms,  William,  134. 

, ,  of  Daventry,  127,  128. 

Ryngburghneuton.  See      Ring- 

borough. 
Ryngestede,     Ralph     de,     vicar     of 

Sutton  Prior,  256. 
Rys,  Ryse,  John,  257. 
,  WiUiam  de,  justice,  57. 


Rysceby.    See  Risceby. 
Ryse.    See  Rise,  Rys. 
Ryshangles.    See  Rishangles. 
Ryssheton.     See  Rushton. 
Ryvere,  Alice  wife  of  Thohias  de  la, 

221. 
,  Beatrice  wife  of  Thomas  de 

la,    assignment   of   dower   to, 

311-313. 

,  Thomas  de  la,  44,  377. 

, ,  knight,  221,  474. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Wnts,   480. 
Ryxspande,  John,  of  West  Wratting. 

clerk,  41. 


s 

Sabraham,    Alice   wife   of   Nicholas, 

234,  331,  332. 
,  Maud  sister  of  Alice  wife  of 

Nicholas,  331,  332. 

,  Nicholas,  234,  331,  332. 

Sabrichesworth.         See     Sawbridge- 

worth. 
Sadelere,  Alice  wife  of  William,  369. 

,  Richard,  of  London,  88. 

,  William,  369. 

Sadyngton,  John  de,  78,  274. 
Saffron  Walden,  Walden  [co.  Essexl, 

abbot  of,  496. 
Saham,     Richard     de,     parson     of 

Stepney,  277,  278. 
St.    Albans     abbey    [co.    Hertford], 

abbot  of,  164. 
,  ....  and  convent  of,  48,  49, 

421. 

,  cell  of.    See  Tynemouth. 

,  Michael  abbot  of,  48. 

,  Richard  abbot  of,  48. 

,  Thomas  abbot  of,  48. 

St.   Andrews   [Fifeshire],   bishop   of. 

See  Landell,  William. 
St.  Antony,  ship  of,  316. 
St.  Asaph,  bishop  of.     See  Leoline 

ap  Madoc. 
St.      Benet's     Holme,      St.       Benet 

Hulme   [co.    Norfolk],    abbey 

of,  110. 
,    abbot    of,    216,    217.     See 

also  Hadesco,  William  de. 

,  .  .  .  .  and  convent  of ,  167,  389. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,  110. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


633 


St.  Botholf,  St.  Botolph,  St.  Botulph. 

See  Boston. 
St.      Briavels,      St.      Briavel,      co. 

Gloucester,    18,    1 9. 
castle,  keeper  of.    See  Brione, 

Guy  de. 
,  service  of  keeping,  in 

in  time  of  war,   19. 
St.  Columb,  CO.  Cornwall,  parson  of. 

See  Northwode,  John  do. 
St.  Crewenna.    See  Crowan. 
St.   Davids  [co.   Pembroke],   bishop 

of.     See  Houghton,  Adam. 
St.  Edmund.    See  Bury  St.  Edmimds. 
St.     Edwin     in     Sherwood     forest, 

chapel  of.    See  Clipstone. 
St.  Faith.    See  Horsham  St.  Faith. 
St.     Gelven    [dep.     C6tes-du-Nord], 

Brittany,  Bonrepos  abbey  in, 

47,  67. 
St.     Gennj's,    co.     Cornwall,     Tren- 

crick,  Trenkrue  in,  501. 
St.    Germans,    co.    Cornwall,     prior 

and  convent  of,   167. 
St.  Helens,  St.  Helen,  Isle  of  Wight, 

443. 
St.  John  of  Jerusalem,  hospital  of, 

prior   of,    89,    468. 
,....,....,  in  England,  210. 

See  also  Paveleye,  John. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  in  Ireland.      See 

Utlagh,  Robert. 
,  .  .  .  . ,    prior     and    brotliren 

of,    in    England,  42,  58. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  Thomas    prior    of,    in 

Ireland,  4. 
St.  Jolin  of  Lagham,  heritage  of,  299. 

See  also  Sancto  Johanne. 

St.  John  Pert.    See  Perth. 

St.   Michael's  Mount,   co.   Cornwall, 

prior  and  convent  of,  281. 
St.     Omer     [France,     dep.     Pas-de- 
Calais],  prior  and  convent  of, 

111. 
St.  Paul's  Cray.    See  Cray. 
St.    Peter's,    co.    Hertford,    Titten- 

hanger,  Tytenangre  in,  298. 
St.    Radegund's    abbey,    co.    Kent, 

abbot  of,  236. 
St.  Sauveur  le  Vicomte,  St.  Sauvour 

le    Viscounte     [France,     dop. 

Manche],     baron     of.  See 

Chandos,  John  de. 
St.  Sebastiane.     See  San  Sebastian. 
St.  Victor  en  Caux,  in  Kaus,  France 

[dep.  Seine-Inferieure],  abbot 

and  convent  of,  419. 
Sakeville,        Sakevile,        Sakevylle, 

Andrew,  Andrew  de,  knight, 

107,  184,  208,  272,  289. 


Sakovillo,  Andrew — cont. 

.  .  .  . ,    knight    of   tho   shire 

of  Sussex,  168,  480. 

, tho  younger,  107. 

,  John  do,  473. 

Sale,  la,  wood  of  [co.  Buckingham], 

405. 
Saleman,  Salman,  William,  92,  294. 
Salemanbury.     See  Salmondsbury. 
Salesbirs.     See  Salisbury. 
Salfietehavon.     See  Saltfleot  Haven. 
Salford,  Peter  de,  86,  271,  387. 
Salisbury,    New       Salisbury,      New 

Sarum,    Salesbirs,    co.    Wilts, 

241. 
,  archdeacon  of.     See  Clone, 

Sir  Roger  de. 
,     bishop    of.        See    Wivill, 

Robert. 
,     cathedral     church     of     St. 

Mary,    dean    of.        See    Fitz 

Urse,  Reynold. 
,  earl  of.     See  Monte  Acuto, 

William  de. 
Salkeld,  Salkild,  Richard  de,  3,  38. 
Salle,  Walter  de,  61,  459. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  of  Horton,  60. 

Sallowe,  Wniiam,   188. 

Sallt,  Walter  de.  of  Horton,  297. 

Salman.    See  Saleman. 

Salmon,  Elizabeth  (le  Walshe)  wife 

of  Robert,  248. 
,  John  son  of  Elizabeth  wife 

of  Robert,  248. 

Cf.  Samon. 

Salmondsbury,      Salemanbury,      co. 

Gloucester,  hundred  of,  21. 
Salop,  county  of,  42,  296. 

,  county  court  of,  410. 

,  escheator  in.    See  Lutteleye, 

Philip  de. 

justices  in,  191. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  168, 

273. 
sheriff  of,   21,   56,   89,   138, 

219,  225,  342,  410.     See  also 

Cheyne,   Roger. 
,     subsidv    in,    71,    89,    203, 

281. 
salt,   8,  103. 

flesh,  cargo  of,  364. 

,  largo,  441. 

,  rent  of,  285. 

,  sale  of,  330. 

Saltburn,  Saltburne  Milne  in  Skelton, 

CO.  York,  284. 
Saltby,  Salteby,  co.  Leicester,  manor 

of,  358. 
saltcotes,  285. 
Salteby.    See  Saltby. 


634 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Salter,  John  son  of  Richard,  of 
Horsham,  85. 

,  Richard,  of  Aylesbury,  174. 

Salteria.    See  Sawtry. 

Saltfleet  Haven,  Salfletehaven  [co. 
Lincoln],  bailiffs,  customers 
etc.  of,  137. 

Saltus  Salamonis.    See  Leixlip. 

Saltwick,  Saltwyk  [parish  of  Stan- 
nington],  co.  Northumber- 
land,  147. 

Salvayn,  John,  of  KUham,  394. 

Salyng,  Salyngge,  Master  Geoffrey, 
clerk,  87. 

,  Richard,  87. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  London,  293. 

Sambourne,  Robert,  Robert  de, 
chaplain,   9. 

,   .  .  .  .,  clerk,  175. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  parson  of  Yeovil,  398. 

Samon,   John,   of  Shellingford,   503. 

,   Thomas   son   of   Henry,   of 

Shellingford,  479. 

Cf.  Salmon. 

Sampson,  John,  316. 

Sancta  Cruce,  John  de,  of  Bedford- 
shire, 271. 

,  Thomas  de,  271. 

Sancta  Maria,  John  de,  444. 

Sancto  Albano,  John  de,  citizen  of 
London,   263. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  sheriff  of  London,  382. 

Sancto  Amando,  Amaury  de,  165, 
271. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  the  younger,   knight, 

249. 

Sancto  Claro,  Seintcler,  Seint  Cler, 
Seintclier,  John  de,  knight, 
165,  178,  184,  188,  196,  271, 
272. 

Thomas  son  of  Sir  John,  91. 

Sancto  Johanne,  Seint  Johan,  Ed- 
ward de,   127. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight,  the  elder,  167. 

,       Henry,       of       Worcester, 

farmer  of  subsidy,   203,   484. 

,  Jolm  de,  375. 

,  Katherine  wife  of  John  de, 

of  Lagham,  knight,  461. 

,  Roger  de,  of  Lagham,  knight, 

298. 

Thomas    de,    daughter    of, 

299. 

Sancto  Laudo,  Seintlou,  Alice 
(Paveleye)  wife  of  John  de, 
457. 

,   Ela  daughter  of  John  de, 

456,  457. 

,  Elizabeth  daughter  of  John 

de,  456,  457. 


Sancto  Laudo — cont. 

,  Joan  daughter  of   John  de, 

456,  457. 

,  John  de,  4,56,  457,  458. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight,  466. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Somerset,   168. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  the  elder,  knight,  47. 

Sancto  Licio,  Adam  de,  77. 

,  Isolda  wife  of  Adam  de,  77. 

Sancto  Martrno,  Seint  Martyn,  Seynt 

Martyn,  Hugh  de,  498. 

,  John  de,  497. 

,  Lawrence  de,  193. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight,  51,  477- 

Sancto     Omero,     Alice     (de     Hoo) 

daughter  of  Thomas  de,  221. 

313,  410. 
,  Beatrice  wife  of  Thomas  de, 

221,  311. 
,  Elizabeth  (Waryn)  daughter 

of  Thomas  de,  221,  313,  410. 
,  Margaret  wife  of  Thomas  de, 

410. 
,  ParneU  wife  of  Thomas  de, 

410. 

,  Thomas  de,  410. 

, ,  knight,  474. 

, ,  sheriff  of  Norfolk,  217. 

,  William  de,  193,  463,  464. 

Sancto  Paulo,  Mary  de,  countess  of 

Pembroke,   31,   96,    135,    143, 

416,  440. 
,  Robert  de,  coroner  of  Lin- 
colnshire,  1 6. 
Sancto  Philberto,  Hugh  de,  133. 

,  John  de,  161. 

Sancto     Quintino,     Alice     wife     of 

Thomas  de,  187. 

,  Thomas  de,  187,  191,  502. 

,  William  de,  knight,  295. 

Sandale,      John      de,      parson      of 

Arksey,  331. 
Sandal  Magna,  co.  York,  Walton  in, 

383. 
Sandelford.    See  Sandford. 
Sanderstead,        Saundrestede        [co. 

Surrey],     Croham,     Cranham 

in,  401. 
Sandewych.    See  Sandwich. 
Sandford,    Sandelford   [co.    Oxford], 

prior  of,  478. 
Sandford,  William  de,  clerk,  188, 189, 

475. 
Sandgate.    See  Sangatte. 
Sandon  [co.  Hertford],  deed  dated  at, 

406. 
Sandwich,      Sandewych,      Sandwic, 
Sandwyc  [co.  Kent],  373,  445. 
,  bailiwick  of,  445. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


63{ 


Sandwich — cont. 

,  collectors  of  customs  at,  33, 

52,  95,  13G,  37G,  479. 
,     keepers     of     passage     and 

searchers  at,  13(5. 
,   mayor   and   bailiffs   of,    31, 

52,  91,  135,  206,  212,  376. 

,  port  of,  26. 

Sandy,      Saundoye,      co.      Bedford, 

chantry  in  church  of,  411. 

,  manor  of,  411. 

Sangatte,  Sandgate    castle   [France, 

dep.   Pas-de-Calais],  9. 
,  keeper  of  the  king's  victuals 

at.    See  Middelton,  John  de. 
San  Sebastian,  St.  Sobastiane  [Spain, 

Biscay],  407. 
Santander  [Spain],  ship  of,  414. 
•Santon,  Thomas  de,  277,  278. 
Sapey,     Lower,     Little     Sapy     [co. 

Worcester],    155. 
Saple3%    Sappele    [co.    Huntingdon], 

forest  of,  339. 
Sapy.     See  Sapey. 
Sapy,  John,  knight,  162. 
Sarazyn.    See  MoUand  Champion. 
Sark,    Serk,    keeper    of    island     of. 

See  Cheyne,  Edmund. 
Sarmesfeld,  Edmund  de,  398. 
Sarsden,  Cerchedene,  co.  Oxford,  496. 
Sarum,  New.    See  Salisbury. 
,   Old   [co.   Wilts],   castle   of, 

constable  of,  84. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  repair  of,  415. 

Saucer,  Margery  wife  of  Walter  le, 

207. 

,  Nicholas,   161. 

,  Walter  le,  207. 

Saucerye,  Sauserye,  William  de  la, 

of        liingston-upon-Thames, 

160,  171. 
Saundeye.    See  Sandy, 
Saundres,  Thomas,  clerk,  159,  160. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  of  Neubold,  escheator 

in  Herefordshire,  1. 
Saundresdon,  William  de,  61. 
Saundrestede.     See  Sanderstead. 
Sausemer,  John,  496. 
Sauserye.    See  Saucerye. 
Sautre.    See  Sawtry. 
Savage,  Sauvage,  Arnald,  knight,  65. 
,      Edmund,      escheator      in 

Derbyshire,  248,  339,  475. 
,     .  .  .  . ,    escheator    in    Nott- 
inghamshire,   248,    331,    423, 
444. 

,  William,  of  Whaplode,  55. 

, ,  of  York,  467. 

Saward,  John,  377. 
Robert,  377. 


Sawbridgoworth,  Sabrichesworth,  co. 

Hertford,  170,  186,  496. 

,  deed  dated  at,  170. 

,  Tediuimbury  Tydenham  in, 

496. 
Sawtry,  Sautre  (Salteria)  abbey  [co. 

Huntingdon],  abbot  and  con- 
vent of,  47,  67,  68. 

,  deed  dated  at,  68. 

Saxendale,    Thomas   de,    of   Bottes- 

ford,   267. 
Saxthorpo  [co.  Norfolk],  387. 
Saxton    Street,    Saxton     [in     Wood 

Ditton],  CO.  Cambridge,  manor 

of.  242. 

[co.  Suffolk],  54. 

Say,  John,  coroner  for  co.  Oxford, 

414. 
William     de,    knight,     206, 

289. 
Scaleby,    Scalby,    co.    Cumberland, 

354. 

,  mill  in,  354. 

,  park  of,  354. 

Scaleng,  WilUam,  312. 
Scammel,  Richard,  389. 
Scarborough,    Scardeburgh,    Skares- 

burg    [CO.    York],    248,    295, 

296,  400,  403. 
,  baUiffs  of,  91,  136,  141,  143, 

247,  451. 

,  burgesses  of,  141. 

,      collectors      of      customs, 

customers  of,   136,  247. 

,  port  of,  247. 

,    Falsgrave,    Walesgrave    in, 

141. 
ScargLll,  Richard  de,  390. 
Scarle,  Walter,  44. 
,   ....  de,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Rutland,  480. 
Scarlet,  William,  471. 
scarlet  cloth,  334. 
Schamelesford,    Richard    de,    clerk, 

87. 
Schelton,  Richard  de,  knight,  469. 

Cf.  Shelton. 

Schert,  Thomas,  440. 
Schirforde,  William,  81. 
Schordich.    See  Shordyche. 
Schotton.     See  Shotton. 
Schrop,  Geoffrey,  61. 

Cf.  Scrope. 

Schulvestrode,    Roger   son   of   John 

de,  70. 
Schyrot,  Roger,  269. 
Scilly,  Sully,  island  of,  501. 
Scolitelgarth,   co.  Cumberland,    354. 
Scoreby,  Scorby,  co.  York,  340. 
manor  of,  417. 


636 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Scot,  Scotte,  John,  272,  373. 

,  ....  le,  earl  of  Chester  and 

Huntingdon,   39. 

,  Lawrence,  283. 

,  Margaret  wife  of  John,  272, 

373. 

,  Richard  son  of  Richard,  of 

Newcastle-upon-Tyne,   173. 

....:.,  William,  of  Great  Driffield, 
376. 

Scoteney,  Richard,  485. 

Scotherskelf,  John  de,  clerk,  272. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  escheator  in  Cumber- 
land, 337,  350,  354,  355,  359, 
361,  416,  421,  425,  427. 
* ,  ....  in  Northumber- 
land, 310,  351,  354,  355,  357, 
361,  425,  438,  439. 

, in  Yorkshire,  328, 

330,  332,  340,  345,  346,  350, 
351,  354,  355,  356,  357,  360, 
361,  412,  413,  417,  421,  425, 
430,  431,  438,  455. 

Scothowe.    See  Scottow. 

Scotland,  96,  224,  235,  440. 

,  envoys  of,  153. 

,  exclusion  of  coinage  of,  404. 

,  horses  bought  in,  451. 

,  merchandise  of,  153. 

,  merchants  of,  130,  153,  440. 

,  prohibition     of     export     of 

horses,  bows,  corn  etc.  to,  370. 

,  the  king's  enemies  in,  3,  38. 

truce  with,  440,  441. 

Scotte.    See  Scot. 

Scotton,  CO.  York,  81. 

Scottow,  Scothowe,  co.  Norfolk, 
manor  of,  216. 

Scrivelsby,  Skrevelby  [co.  Lincoln], 
lord  of.   See  Dymmok,  John. 

Scrope,  Geoffrey  le,  knight,  239. 

,  Henry,  494. 

,  ....  de,  knight,  495. 

,  Richard  le,  192. 

, ,  knight,  78,  212,  268. 

Cf.  Sclirop. 

sea,  obstructions  etc.  in  arms  of 
the,  156,  157. 

Seaford,  Seford,  Stefford,  co.  Sussex, 
bailiffs  and  collectors  of 
customs  at,  130,  137. 

,  Sutton  in,  497. 

Seal,  CO.  Surrey,  Tongham  in,  502. 

seals,  70,  137,  144,  155,  158,  167, 
212,  222,  232,  239,  241,  267, 
305,  309,  310,  324,  328,  335, 
338,  339,  340,  342,  356,  365, 
370,  371,  386,  390,  391,  405, 
417.  443,  444,  456,  463,  466, 
476,  490. 


seals— conL 

,  cocket,  26,  479,  499,  500. 

,  disused,  placed  in  treasury, 

71. 

,  exchequer,  292. 
for  sealing  cloth,  forgery  of, 

88,  89. 
for  staple,  479. 

,  the  great,  156,  274,  292,  305, 

423,  448. 

,  warrants  of,  118. 

,  the  king's  cocket,  26. 

,  the  privy,  316,  420. 

,   .  .  .  .,  clerk  of,  61. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  keeper  of.     See  Lacy, 

Peter  de  ;  Wykeham,  William 

de. 

,  the  treasurer's,  420. 

,  used  in  Ireland,  63,  94,  108, 

154,  232,  327,  354,  423,  432, 

448. 
Seamer,  Semere,  co.  York,  57. 

,  manor  of,  140,  438. 

seanage,  80. 

Searby,      Seuerby      [co.       Lincoln], 

88. 
Seaton,  Seton  [co.  Devon],  baUiffs, 

customers,  etc.   of,  137. 
,  North,  Seton  Wodhome  [in 

Woodhorn],  co.  Northumber- 
land,   147. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  fishery  at,  147. 

Seele,  Thomas,  83. 

Seford.    See  Seaford. 

Sefton    [co.    Lancaster],    parson    of. 

See  Hulme,  Jordan  de. 
Seggeborwe,  Ralph,  45. 
Segrave,  Hugh,  Hugh  de,  191,  192, 

314,  397. 
,  Nicholas,  Nicholas  de,  171, 

463. 
Seint    Cler,    Seintcler.      See   Sancto 

Claro. 
Seintcleye,  co.  Gloucester,  437. 
Seint  Clier.    See  Sancto  Claro. 
Seinte  Marie  Bokelond.     iSee  Buck- 
land  St.  Mary. 
Seint  Gilmyn  of  Conk.    See  Conquet, 

le? 
Seint    Ive,    Adam    de,    of    London, 

farmer    of   the    exchanges    of 

money,     plate     and     broken 

silver,  29,  79,  80,  290. 
Seint  Johan.    See  Sancto  Johanne. 
Seintlou.     See  Sancto  Laudo. 
Seint  Martyn     See  Sancto  Martino. 
Sekynton,  John  de,  203. 
Seland.    See  Zealand. 
Selby,       CO.       York,        259,        412, 

413. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


637 


Selby — co7it. 

abboy,   abbot   of,   259,   412, 

413.        See    also    Gaddoaby, 
Geoffrey  de. 

,  voidance  of,  449. 

Seleman,  Maud  wife  of  Robert, 
knight,    192. 

Cf.  Selyman. 

Seler,  Alice  wife  of  J.ohn  atto,  387, 
487. 

,  Joan  wife  of  William  atte, 

387,  487. 

,  John  atte,  387,  487. 

,  William  atte,  387,  487. 

Cf.  Celer. 

Selk,  John,  394. 

Selling,  Sellyng,  co.  Kent,  manor  of, 
436. 

Selwood,  Selwode  forest,  co.  Somer- 
set, election  of  verderer  in,  429. 

Sely,  John,  161. 

Cf.  Cely. 

Selyman,  Roger,  369. 

Cf.  Seleman. 

Seman,  William,  bailiff  of  Bucking- 
ham, 269. 

Semere.    See  Seamer. 

Semere,  Somere,  Peter,  of  Guildford, 
71. 

surveyor  of  works  at 

Guildford,  430,  432. 

Sempringham,  Sempjmgham  [co. 
Lincoln],  order  of,  high 
master  of,  227. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  liouses  of.  See  Haver- 
holm,  Malton. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  nuns  of,   blessing  of, 

227. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  William  master  of,  379. 

Senterent,  John  de,  430. 

Septem  Vannis,  Sepvans,  Sepvantz, 
Sepvauns,  Sevans,  William 
de,  82. 

son  of  William  de,  33, 

174,  183,  185,  279. 

Sergeaunt,  John,  of  Stone,  265. 

Sergeaux,  Cergeaux,  Richard,  guar- 
dian of  the  peace  and  justice 
of  oyer  and  terminer  in  Corn- 
wall, 391. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  km'ght  of  the  shire  of 

Cornwall,  168. 

Serk.     See  Sark. 

Serle,  Walter,  479,  503. 

services  : 

being  the  king's  hunter  to  chase 

vermin,  411,  412,  426. 
finding    archers    in    the    king's 
war  within  the  four  seas  of 
England,   157,  219. 


services — cont. 

finding  one  waferor  at  the  kings' 

coronation,  350. 
holding     the     cord     when     the 

king    built    a    castle    in    the 

marches  of  Wales,  1. 
keeping     St.     Briavol's     castle 

in  time  of  war,  19. 
Sete.     See  Sheet. 
Seton.    See  Soaton. 
Settrington,  Setryngton  [co.  York], 

"467. 
Seuerby.   See  Soarby. 
Sevans.    See  Septem  Vannis. 
Severn,  river,  262. 

,  boat  sunk  in,  103. 

,    repair    of    bridge    over,    at 

Gloucester,  34,  35. 
Sewale,  John,  185,  396. 

,   ,  of  Soutlifleet,  465. 

,  Richard  son  of  Thomas,  491. 

,  Thomas,  185,  491. 

Sewardstone,        Sywardeston,       co. 

Middlesex  [rectms  co.  Essex], 

marsh  of,  92. 
Sextus,  Robert,  397. 
Seymour,  Seymore,  John,  19. 

,  Nicholas,  366. 

, de,  heir  of,  217. 

Seynt    Mariewyk.       See    Week    St. 

Mary. 
Seynt  Martyn.    See  Sancto  Martino. 
Seys,  John,  436,  437. 
Shaldeswell,  Aspefeld  in,  182. 
Shalford,  Shaldford  [co.  Essex],  433. 
Shalyngford.     See  Shellingford. 
Shalyngford,     John     de,     tailor     of 

London,  208. 
Shanketon,  Henry  de,  clerk,  267. 
,    .  .  .  . ,  parson  of  Hadstock, 

86. 
Shardelowe,  John  de,  117. 

,  Richard  de,  of  London,  46. 

,  Thomas  de,  guardian  of  the 

peace  and  justice  of  oyer  and 

terminer     in     Cambridgshire, 

391. 

, ,  knight,  491. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Cambridge,  169,  273,  480. 
Shareshull,  William  de,  205,  309. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and     justice     of     oyer     and 

terminer  in  Staffordshire,  289. 
Sharnford,  Sharneford,  co.  Leicester, 

359. 
Sharnton.    See  Sherrington. 
Sharstede.    See  Shawsted. 
Shaw  [co.  Berks],  manor  of,  336. 
Shawe,  Thomas,  133. 


638 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


'Shawsted,  Sharstede  [in  Chatham], 

CO.  Kent,  manor  of,  206. 
Sheen,    Shene    [co.    Surrey],    letters 

close  dated  at,  246,  340,  382. 
sheep,  455. 
Sheet,  Sete  [in  Ludford],   co.  Salop, 

129. 
Sheffeld,  John  de,  knight,  17. 

,  ....  son  of  John  de,  63. 

Sheldwych,     John     de,     bailifT     of 

Canterbury,  373. 
Sheles.    See  Shields. 
Shelford,  co.  Nottingham,  314,   419. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  prior  of,  419. 

,   Great,   Great  Chelford,   co. 

Cambridge,  manor  of,  28. 
Shellingford,  Shalyngford,  co.  Berks, 

479,  503. 
,   deeds   dated   at,    195,    479, 

503. 
Shelton,  John  de,  471. 

Ralph  de,  knight,  235,  382. 

Cf.  Schelton. 

Shelve    in    Lenham,    co.    Kent,    fee 

in,  495. 
Shelve,  John,  495. 

,  Lawrence,  495. 

Shench,  John,  66. 
Shene,  See  Sheen. 
Shenfield,  Shenefeld,  co.  Essex,  277, 

278,  310. 
Shenyngton,   Richard   de,   abbot   of 

Ramsey,  361. 
Shepenhull,  Shipenhull  in  Chadling- 

ton,    CO.    Oxford,    manor    of, 

230. 
Shepewassh  [co.  Hants],  406. 
Shepeye.    See  Sheppey. 
Shephird,    Sheppeliird,    Richard,    of 

Unthank,   338. 

Stephen,  286. 

,  WiUiam,  of  Copt  Hall,  188. 

Sheplake.    See  Shiplake. 

Shepney  Castle,  Risshedon,  Risshyn- 

don,    Rushenden     castle    [in 

Minster],  co.  Kent,  131. 

,  works  at,  121. 

Sheppehird.    See  Shephird. 
Sheppey,  Shepeye,  isle  of  [co.  Kent], 

478,  479. 
,  letters  close  dated  at,  324, 

373. 
Sheprugge.    See  Shipbridge. 
Shepton,     Thomas     de,     parson     of 

Mells,  188. 
Shepton  Beauchamp,  Skijjton  Beau- 
champ,  CO.   Somerset,   manor 

of,  435. 
Mallet,  Skipton  Malet,  manor 

of,  435. 


Sherard,  Thomas,  of  Pudelmuster- 
ton,  93. 

Cf.  Sliirard. 

Sherburn,  co.  York,  Micklefield, 
Mikelfeld  in,  360. 

Sherrington,  Shiryngton  [co.  Buck- 
ingham], 54. 

,  Sharnton,  co.  Wilts,  manor 

of,  9. 

Sherwood,  Shirewode,  Shirwode 
forest  [co.  Nottingham],  28, 
37,  142,  432,  442. 

,    keeper    of,    419.       See   also 

Morton,  Robert  de. 

Shetton,  Jolin  de,  367. 

Sheynston,  Roger  de,  262. 

Shibden,  Shipen  [parish  of  Halifax], 
CO.  York,  360. 

Shield  Dyke  or  Swinlees  [in  Shil- 
bottle]  ?  pasture  of  Swyn- 
lescheiles,  Swynleischeles,  co. 
Northumberland,   438. 

Shields,  Sheles  [cos.  Northumber- 
land and  Durham],  bailiffs  of, 
52. 

ShUlewell.    See  Chilwell. 

Shilling  Okeford,  Okford  Skillyng 
[co.  Dorset],  57. 

Shillyng,  John,  209. 

Cf.  SkiUyng. 

Shilvington,  Shilvyngton  [parish  of 
Morpeth],  co.  Northvunber- 
land,  manor  of,  147. 

Shimpling,  Shymplyng,  co.  Suffolk, 
222,  224. 

Shinfield,  Shynyngfeld  [co.  Berks], 
208. 

Shingle  Hall,  Shynglehalle  in  Dun- 
mow  [co.  Essex],  manor  of, 
139. 

Shipbridge,  Great,  Great  Sheprugge, 
Great  Sheprugge  [in  Shinfield 
and  Swallowfield,  co.  Berks], 
208. 

Shipen.    See  Shibden. 

Shipenhull.    See  Shepenhull. 

Sliiplake,  Sheplake,  co.  Sussex, 
htmdred  of,  243. 

ships,  7,  18,  24,  36,  49,  51,  58,  130, 
146,  159,  222,  226,  227,  257, 
258,  322,  323,  420,  440,  441, 
442,  443,  444,  445,  451,  453, 
455. 

,  armour  etc.  for  defence   of, 

361,  467, 

,  foreign,  319. 

,  little,  of  Normandy,  442. 

,  masters  of,  136. 

wrecked,      130,      153,     407,     . 

408. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


639 


shipa  named  : 

la  Clement,  of  Bristol,  25.'). 
la  cog  Thomas,  of  Hook,  458. 
la  George,  of  London,  467. 
la  Hilde,  of  Hull,  11. 
la  James,  of  Lynn,  153. 
la  Kateryne,  of  Winchelsea,  231. 
la  Laurence,  of  Newcastle-upon- 
Tyne,  181. 

of  Wael  by  Calais,  363. 

la  Marie,  of  Santander,  414. 
la  Panfyo,  of  Genoa,  316. 
la  Peter,  of  Liverpool,  25. 
la  Seint  John,  of  Sluys,  153. 
la  Seinte  Marie  cog,  of  South- 
ampton, 333. 
la  Trinite,  of  Southampton,  333. 
Seint  Youn,  of  Spain,  255. 
Skenkeiuyn,  422. 
Shipton.     See  Puck  Shipton. 
Shirak.    See  Skyrack. 
Shirard,  John,  375. 

,  Robert,  375. 

Cf.  Slierard. 

shires  and  hundreds,  common    for- 
feiture of,  341. 
Shirewode.    See  Sherwood. 
Shirley,  co.  Derby,  Yeaveley,  Yeve- 

ley  in,  18. 
Shirland,  Shirlond,  Amaury  de,  120. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  auditor  of  account  of 

lands  of  the  king's  sons,  14. 
,     .  .  . . ,    baron    of    the    ex- 
chequer, 499. 
Shirmonden,    co.    Northvimberland, 
439. 

,  mill  in,  439. 

Shirwode.    See  Sherwood. 
Shiryngham.    See  Shrivenham. 
Shiryngton.     See  Sherrington. 
Shitlington,    Shutlyngdon,   co.   Bed- 
ford, fee  in,  497. 

,   parson   of.      See   Assheton, 

Matthew  de. 
Shoford,  Shoforde  by  Maydenstan 
[the  Mote  in  Maidstone], 
mianor  of,  84. 
Sholdham,  Reynold  de,  searcher  in 
the  port  of  London,  159,  257, 
323. 

,  .....  .  .  .  . ,  discharge  of,  412. 

and    in    river 

Thames,  309,  328. 
Shoprugge.    See  Shipbridge. 
Shordyche,  Schordich,  John  de,  477. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Hackney,  192. 

Shoreham,  Shorham,  co.  Kent,  408, 
459. 

,  . .  . . ,  deeds    dated  at,   408, 

459. 


Shoreham,  co.  Kent — cont. 

, Filston,   Vieleston   in, 

408. 
,      Shorham      [co.      Sussex], 

baihffs  of,  91,  136. 
,    .  .  .  . ,    customers     etc.     of, 

136. 

,  ship  made  at,  467. 

Short,  John,  coroner  for  Cumberland, 

143. 
Shotesbroko,    Gilbert   de,    161,    165, 

195. 
Shotover,  Shotore  forest,  co.  Oxford, 

forestership   of,   230. 

,  regard  of,  476. 

Shotton,   Schotton  [parish  of  Stan- 

nington],     co.      Northumber- 
land, 194,  199. 

,  deed  dated  at,  195. 

,  manor  of,  199. 

Shrambroke      by      Clyve.  See 

Mortimers. 
Shrewsbury  [co.  Salop],  366,  367. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  367. 

inquisition  taken  at,  452. 

Shrewsbury,    Slirosbury,    Ralph    of, 

bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  4, 

355. 
,    William    de,    king's    clerk, 

controller    of    the    household, 

10. 
Shrivenliam,  Shiryngham,  Sliryven- 

ham  [co.  Berks],  402. 

,  Beckett,  Bockote  in,  402. 

,  Fours  Mill,  Fowersmull  in, 

369. 
Shropham,  co.  Norfolk,  hundred  of, 

439. 
Shrosbury.    See  Shrewsbury. 
Shryvenham.     See  Shrivenham. 
Shurdington,        Shurdyngton,        co. 

Gloucester,  manor  of,  9. 
Shustoke  [co.  Warwick],  manor  of, 

162. 

,  Bentley  chapel  in,  1 62. 

Shutlyngdon.     See  Shitlington. 
Shymplyng.    See  Shimpling. 
Shynglehalle.    See  Shingle  Hall. 
Shynyngfeld.     See  Shinfield. 
Sibford,  Sibbeford,  co.  Oxford,  3. 
Sibile,  Sibille,  John,  336. 

,  .  .  . . ,  of  Cheveley,  465. 

Sible    Hedingham    Hengham.      See 

Hedingham. 
Sibson,  Robert,  neif,  285. 
Sibthorp,    Robert    de,    king's    clerk, 

500. 
Sibton,  John  de,  of  Salop,  372. 
Siflflington,  Siflfleton  [in  Ditton],  co. 

Kent,  manor  of,  300,  305. 


640 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Silchester,     Silchestre    [co.     Hants], 

manor  of,  502. 
silk,  sale  of,  483. 

cloth,  custom  on,  215. 

Silverton,     Sulferton,     co.     Devon, 

manor  of,  52. 
Simeon,  Simon,  of  Lincolnshire,  297. 
Simon,  lodeman  called,  442. 
Simon,   Thomas    son   of,   de   Welle, 

267. 

See  Fitz  Simond. 

Simond,  Agnes,   167. 

John,  167. 

See  Fitz  Simond. 

Simonside,     Symondset,     co.     Dur- 
ham, 418. 
Sixhills,  Sixhill,  Sixhull,  co.  Lincoln, 

manor  of,  323,  472. 

,  prior  of,  439. 

Sixtenby,   Ralph  son  of  Isolda  de, 

419. 
Sixteneby.     See  Sysonby. 
Skakelthorp,    Adam    de,    parson    of 

Cawston,  184. 
Skaresburg.     See  Scarborough. 
Skeckling,   Skeklyng   [in  Burstwick, 

CO.  York],  315. 
Skeet,  William,  366. 
Skeffling,  Skeftelyng,  co.  York,  315. 
Skeklyng.    See  Skeckling. 
Skelton,  co.  Cumberland,  337. 

,  manor  of,  337. 

,     Skelton   in    Clyveland    [in 

Langbaurgh],   co.   York,   218, 

307,  311. 
,  assignment  of  dower  at,  282, 

286. 

,  burgage  of,  282. 

,  castle,  284.  307. 

,  deed  dated  at,  295. 

,  lord  of.     See  Faucomberge, 

Thomas  de. 

,  manor  of,  295,  307. 

,  market  and  fair  at,  284. 

,  mines  at,  284. 

,  places  named  in,  282-284. 

,  wardens  of  St.  Mary's  light 

in,  282. 
Skelton,  Richard  son  of  Thomas  de, 

337,  338. 

,  Thomas  de,  338. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  verderer  of  Inglewood 

ferest,   142. 
Skemy,  William,  313. 
Skillyng,  Skyllyng,  Michael,   69,  92, 

185,     193,      270,      302,      392, 

393. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  suitor  for  the  king,  98. 

Cf.  ShilljTig. 

Skilyngton,  Adam,  271. 


Skinthorpe,  Skyn thorp  [near  Cus- 
worth  in  Sprotbiirgh — lost^, 
147. 

Skippewyth.     See  Skipwyth. 

Skipsea,  Skipse  [co.  York],  castle  of, 
102. 

,  manor  of,  315. 

,  Cleton  in,  315. 

Skipton.     See  Shepton. 

Skipwith,  Skippewyth,  Skypwyth, 
Ralph  de,  274. 

,  William  de,  70,  123,  187. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  justice,  57. 

, ,  knight,  274,  296. 

.  V  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  the  younger,  of  Lin- 
colnshire, 274. 

Skirbeck,  Skyrbek,  co.  Lincoln, 
manor  of,  469. 

Skirlaugh,  Skirlagh  [co.  York],  193. 

Skrevelby.     See  Scrivelsby. 

Skybhoke,  water  of,  [in  estuary  of 
Colne,  CO.  Essex],  157. 

Skyllyng.     See  Skillyng. 

Skynner,  Thomas  son  of  William  le, 
of  Slu-ewsbury,  366,  367. 

Skynthorp.     See  Skinthorpe. 

Skypwyth.    See  Skipwyth. 

Skyrack,  Shirak  wapentake  [co. 
York],  17. 

Skyrbek.     See  Skirbeck. 

Slade,  Richard  atte,  162. 

Slak,  Roger,  268. 

Slaughter,  Sloughtre  [co.  Gloucester], 
manor  of,  21. 

Sleford,  John  de,  king's  clerk,  keeper 
of  the  king's  wardrobe  in 
Tower  of  London,  414. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    parson   of    Balsham, 

365. 

Sleght,  John,  parson  of  Lazonby, 
296. 

Slimbridge,  Slymbrugge,  co.  Glou- 
cester, Hurst  in,  446. 

,   parson  of.         See   Couelee, 

Robert  de. 

Slinfold,  Slyndefold  [co.  Sussex], 
parson  of.    See  Foliot,  John. 

Slipton,  Sublipston,  co.  Northamp- 
ton, fee  in,  497. 

Sloghtre,  John,  knight  of  the  shire 
of  Gloucester,   168,  273. 

Sloman,  Brian,  chaplain  of  the 
church  of  Llandewyvelfrey, 
32. 

Sloughtre.     See  Slaughter. 

Sluys,  Lescluse  in  Flanders,  440, 
441,  455. 

,  port  of,  316. 

,  ships  of,  153,  451. 

Slymbrugge.    See  Slimbridge, 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


641 


Slyndofoldo.    See  Slinfold. 
Smalburno  in  Redosdalo,  co.  North- 

iiinborland,    440. 
Smalewliito,  Thomas,  395,  396. 
Smoaton,  Smithton,  co.  York,  245. 
Smooth,  CO.  Kent,  Evegate,  Theve- 

gate  in,  289. 
Smethe,  Jolm,  484. 
,   of   London,    skinner, 

381. 
,  .  . .  . ,  of  West  Ravendale,  87, 

88. 
Smith,   Smyth,   Alice  wife  of  John 

the,  162. 

,  Jolm,  labourer,  290,  291. 

,  of  Barnack,  240. 

,     Nicholas,     of     Frismershe, 

390. 

,  Richard,  269. 

Thomas,  of  Ashby,  434. 

William,  391. 

, of  Franc',  481. 

Smithton.   See  Smeaton. 

Smyth.    See  Smith. 

Smythous,    Germinus,    merchant    of 

Almayn  in  London,  364. 
Snave,    co.    Kent,    John   parson   of, 

373. 
Snayth,  Henry  de,  clerk,  493,  494. 
Snellyng,  Ednumd,  383. 
Sniterle.     See  Blakeney. 
Snitter,  Snyter  [parish  of  Rothbury], 

CO.  Northumberland,   140. 
Snodenham,  Robert  de,  502. 
Snow    Hill,    Snowedon    in    Windsor 

forest      [in      Windsor     Great 

Park],  CO.  Berks,  133. 
Snypeston,  Nicholas,  328. 
Snyter.    See  Snitter. 
Sodbery,  Soddebury,     See  Sudbury. 
Sodyngton,    Henry    de.    parson    of 

Ashford,  452. 
Sojornamit,  Simon,  398. 
Sollebergh.    See  Sowber  Hill  ? 
Soles,  William  de,  289. 
Sombourne,  Upper,   Somborne,  Up- 

somborne     [in     King's     Som- 
bourne,    CO.     Hants],     deeds 

dated  at,  484,  485. 

,  manor  of,  484,  485. 

Somenour,  William,  72. 

Cf.  Sumnour. 

Somer,  Thomas,  chaplain,  295. 
Somerby     [co.     Lincoln],     Humby, 

Honeby  in,  88. 
Somerby,    William,    parson    of    St. 

Mary   Magdalene,   Milkstreet, 

55. 
Somere.    See  Semere. 
Someresham.    See  Somersham. 


Somerford,  Great  [co.  Wilts],  fee  in, 

498. 
Koynes,  Kaynos,   co.   Wilts, 

manor  of,  19,  415. 
Somerset,  county  of,  43,  78,  80,  99, 

161,   174,   188,   193,   195,  201, 

209,  263,  269,  365,  398,  461, 

473,  477,  483,  491. 
,    eschoator  in.    See  Bekyng- 

ton,       John      de ;       Cheyne, 

Thomas. 
,    justices    of    assize    in,    74, 

266. 
knights  of  the  shire  of,  168, 

273,  480. 
sheriff  of,  1,  94,  97,  132,  138, 

329,  429. 

,  subsidy  in,  203,  204. 

Somersham,  co.  Suffolk,  340. 

,  fee  in,  497. 

Somersham,      Someresham,      Agnes 

daughter  of  Alexander  de,  12. 

,  Alexander  de,  12. 

,  Jolm  de,  49,  205. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  63. 

,  Margaret  daughter  of  Alex- 
ander de,  12. 
Somerton,    co.    Oxford,    Northbroke 

in,  3. 

,  CO.  Suffolk,  fee  in,  497. 

Somerton,  John  de,  78,  192. 

,  Nicholas  de,  182. 

Somervylle,     Somervyle,     John,     of 

Croxton,  427. 
,  Robert  son  of  William  de,  of 

Melton  Mowbray,  501. 

,  William  son  of  John,  427. 

Somery,  John,  John  de,  495. 
Sonning,  Sonnyng  [co.  Berks],  vicar 

of.   See  Burnham,  Andrew  de. 
Sonynghulle,     John,     of     Berkshire, 

164,   165. 
Sopley  [co.  Hants],  North  Avon  in, 

44,  51. 

,  South  Avon  in,  44,  50,  51. 

Sothereye.    See  Southerey. 
Sothill,  James,  James  de,  379,  380. 
Sotheron,  John,  471. 

, ,  of  Mitton,  466. 

Sotte,  Lanus,  441,  444,  445, 
Souewelle,  John,  69. 
Southalle.    See  South  Hall. 
Southampton,  Suthampton,  51,  122, 

228,  442. 
,     collectors     of    custom    in, 

customers    of,    95,    137,    333, 

455. 
.......  liberty  of,  430. 

mayor  and  bailiffs  of,  49,  91, 

137. 

E  41 


642 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Southampton — cont . 

,  port  of,    17,   216,   334,   443, 

455. 
,  . .  . . ,  keepers  of  passage  in, 

455. 

,  ships  of,  333. 

Southampton,   Suthampton,   county 

of,   45,   56,   63,   77,    193,   260, 

261,  270,  294,  302,  460,  486. 
,  escheator  in.    See  Evesham, 

John  de. 

,  issues  of,  486. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  168, 

273    481 
,  sheriff  of,  97,  138,  228,  247, 

333,  360,  430.  See      also 

Brigge,  Peter. 
,   subsidy  in,    204,    282,    381, 

484. 
Southcote,   Suthcote   [parish   of   St. 

Mary,    Reading],    co.    Berks, 

208. 

,  Hevenemede  in,  107. 

Southedon,  John  de,  clerk,  175. 
Southerey,  Sothereye  [co.  Norfolk], 

385. 
Southfleet,  Southflete,  Suthflete,  co. 

Kent,  66,  465. 

,  Grene  and  Cosington  in,  66. 

Southgedeneye.     See  Geeton,  South. 
South  Hall,  Southalle,  in  Rainham, 

CO.  Essex,  manor  of,  108. 
Southmidelton  under  Chevyot.     See 

Middleton,  South. 
Southminster,     co.     Essex,     Caidge, 

Cage  in,  469. 
Southovis,  Margaret  wife  of  Walter, 

277,  278. 

,  Walter,  277,  278. 

Southperton.    See  Petherton,  South. 
Southpole.    See  Pool,  South. 
Southtouton.    See  Cowton,  South. 
Southwark,  Southwerk,  Suthwerk  in 

the    suburb    of    London  [co. 

Surrey],  64,  369,  398. 

,  chancery  at,  406. 

,  church  of  St.  Mary  Overy, 

Our  Lady  called  Overre,   St. 

Mary's    priory,    chancery  at, 

470. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  deed  dated  at,   82. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  prior  and   convent  of, 

120. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  64,  159,  160, 

398,  399,  406. 

,  la  Crouchehous  in  parish  of 

St.  Olave,  398,  399. 

,   manor   of,   deed   dated   at, 

192. 

,  parish  of  St.  Margaret,  159. 


Southwick,    Suthwyke    [co.    Hants], 

406. 

,  Wanstead,  Wanstede  in,  406. 

Southwythum.    See  Witham. 

Souze,  Lawrence  de,  430. 

Sowber     Hill     [in     Kirby      Wiske] 

?  SoUebergh,  co.  York,  245. 
Sowy,  Thomas,  44,  45. 
Spacy,  John,  chaplain,  475. 
,      .  .  .  . ,     vicar     of     [North] 

Bradley,  475. 
Spaigne,   Spayne,  Nicholas  de,   165. 

, ,  clerk,  365,  464. 

,    Thomas   de,    of   Yorkshire, 

491. 
Spain,  255,  361,  407,  444,  458. 
,   men  of,  plundered  at  sea, 

224. 

,  merchants  of,  102,  103,  430. 

,  ships  of,  103. 

,   . .  .  . ,  wrecked,  430. 

wine  of,  9,  158. 

Spains  Hall,  Spayneshall   in  Willin- 

gale  Spain,  co.  Essex,    manor 

of,  170,  368. 
Spark,  Hugh,  391. 

,  Nicholas,  ship-master,   333. 

Sparsholt,   Spereshold,   Spersolt,  co. 

Berks,  fee  in,  496. 
,  vicar  of.   See  Wulfrycheston, 

Richard. 
Sparwe,  John,  86. 

Simon,  of  Fleet  Street,  393. 

Spaxton,     CO.     Somerset,    Merridge, 

Meryddge  in,  47. 
Spayne.    See  Spaigne. 
Spayneshall.     See  Spains  Hall. 
Spedhiu"st.    iSee  Speldhurst. 
Speek,  John,   163. 
Speldhurst,    Spedhurst    [co.    Kent], 

184. 
Spelly,  Agnes  wife  of  Ellis,  466. 

,  Ellis,  burgess  of  Bristol,  466. 

,    merchant  of  Bristol, 

255. 
Spencer,  Spenser,  John,  249. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Clierrington,  265. 

,  William,  164. 

Spencers,  John  de,  497. 

Spense,   Lawrence  de,   merchant  of 

Scotland,  153. 
Spenser.     See  Spencer. 
Spereshold,  Spersolt.    See  Sparsholt. 
Spice,  Alice  wife  of  Clement,  170. 

,  Clement,  170,  200,  243,  491. 

, ,  of  Essex,  372. 

,  William,  170,  171. 

Spicer,    Spycer,    John,    burgess    of 

Bedford,  169. 
,  Richard,  of  Eeist  Mailing,  180. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


643 


Spignrnell,  Spigiirnel,  Ralph,  71. 
,    constable    of    Dover 

Castle    and    Warden    of    the 

Cinque    Ports,    33,    90,     135, 

211,  236,  371,  376,  389,  404, 

468. 

, knight,  341. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  tlio  king's  admiral,  322, 

323. 

Thomas,  35. 

Spofforth,  Spofford,  co.  York,  manor 

of,  438. 

,  Colthorpe  in,  245. 

Sponle,    Master    John,     the    king's 

mason,  76,  77. 
Sporteleye.    See  Sproatley. 
sports,  proclamation  concerning,  181, 

182. 
Spraye,  Clement,  citizen  of  London, 

477. 
Sprigge,  William,  386. 
Springfield,  Spryngefeld  [co.  Essex], 

366. 
Sproatley,     Sporteleye    [co.     York], 

315. 
Sprotburgh,    co.    York,    Skinthorpe, 

Skynthorp  in,  147. 
Spryngefeld.    See  Springfield. 
Spycer.   See  Spicer. 
Spyney,  John,  91. 
Spynk,  Richard,  of  Norwich,  179. 
Squyer,  John,  of  London,  71. 

,  William,  459. 

Stablegate,   Edmund   de,    citizen   of 

Canterbury,   373. 
Stacheden.     See  Stagsden. 
Stacy,  Richard,  294. 
,  Walter  brother  of  Richard, 

294. 
Stafford,  delivery  of  gaol  at,  205. 
Stafford,  county  of,  83,  378,  467. 
,  escheator  in.    See  Lutteleye, 

Pliilip  de. 

,  justices  in,  191. 

,  ....  of  assize  in,  311. 

,  ....  of  gaol  delivery  in,  289. 

,  ....  of  oyer  and  terminer  in, 

289,  309. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  1 68, 

480. 
,  sheriff  of,  32,  89,  100,   101, 

215,  219,  429,  473. 

,  subsidy  in,  71,  89,  203,  281. 

Stafford,  Hugh  de,  knight,  493. 

,  Humplirey  de,  knight,  466. 

,  John  de,  parson  of  Leek,  167. 

,  Ralph,  earl  of  Stafford,  40, 

309,  317,  318. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  lord  of  Newport 

and  Netherwent,  371. 


Stafford — cont.  '  '  ^ 

,  Richard  de,  342. 

, clerk,  40. 

lord  of  Clifton  Camp- 

villo,  489. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  seneschal  of  Gascony, 

128. 

,  Robert,  earl  of  Stafford,  83. 

,  Thomas  de,  14,  15. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  the  king's  sorjoant  at 

arms,  456. 

,  William  de,  214. 

stags  of  harts,  442. 

Stagsden,   Stacheden  [co.   Bedford], 

229. 
Staindrop,    co.    Durham,    Raby    in, 

268. 
Staines,  Stanes,  co.  Middlesex,  268, 

395,   396. 
stallage,  21,  102,  233,  341,  443. 
Stamer,  John,   174. 
Stamford,    Staunford    [cos.  Lincoln, 

and  Northampton],   129. 
,  church  of  St.  Mary  by  the 

Bridge,  parson  of.    See  Clyve, 

Simon  de  ;    Lescy,   Simon. 
Stamford    Bridge,    Staynfordbrigge, 

CO.  York,  340,  417. 
Stamfordham,  co.  Northumberland, 

Hawkwoll  in,  357. 
stampage  of  tin,  113. 
Standelf,  John,  391. 
Standen    [parish    of    Whalley],    co. 

Lancaster,  inanor  of,  239,  249. 
Standlake,  Stanlake,  co.  Oxford,  44, 

45,  471,  472,  474. 

,  advowson  of,  472,  474. 

,  chaplain  of.       See  Blockele, 

Reynold. 

,  church  of,  471. 

,    deeds    dated    at,    45,   471, 

473,  474. 

,  fee  in,  496. 

manor  of,  471. 

,  places  named  in,   471,   472, 

474. 
Stanes.     See  Staines. 
Stanes,  Richard  de,  93. 
,      Thomas     de,      parson     of 

Upminster,   411,   412. 

,  William,  209. 

Stanesford.  See  Stanford. 
Stanewelle.  See  Stanwell. 
Staneweye.  See  Stanway. 
Stanfield,      Stanfeld,      co.      Norfolk, 

Thomas  parson  of,  320. 
Stanford  [co.  Kent],  198. 
Stanford,      Stanesford,      Staunford, 

Gilbert  de,  knight,    197,    300, 

405. 


644 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Stanford — cont. 

,  John  de,  parson  of  Bridg- 

ford,  314. 

,  Nicholas  de,  clerk,  171. 

,  Warm  de,  373. 

Stanghow  in  Skelton,  co.  York,  283, 

284. 
Stanhope,  John  de,  mayor  of  New- 
castle-upon-Tyne, 440. 
,     Richard    de,     collector    of 

customs    at    Newcastle-upon- 
Tyne,  146. 
,     .  .  .  . ,    mayor    of,    and    es- 

cheator    in    Newcastle-upon- 
Tyne,  331,  332. 
Stanlake.    See  Standlake. 
Stanlake,    Roger    son    of    Richard, 

Richard  de,  of  Witney,  475, 

476. 
Stanlegh,  Roger  de,  vicar  of  Castle 

Gary,  217. 
Stanley.    See  King's  Stanley. 
Stanlowe,     John     de,     coroner    for 

Cumberland,   413. 
Stannard,  Thomas,  313. 
Stannington,    co.    Northumberland, 

Saltwick  in,  147. 

,  Shotton  in,  194,  195,  199. 

Stanstead,    Stanstedo,    co.    Suffolk, 

222,  224. 
Stansted  Movmtfichet,  Monfichet,  co. 

Essex,  manor  of,  243. 
Stanstede,  John,  parson  of  Stanway, 

171. 
Stanton  [co.  Suffolk],  279. 
Fitzwarren,    Staunton    Fitz 

Waryn,  co.  Wilts,  manor  of, 

410. 
St.  John,  Staunton  St.  John 

[co.  Oxford],  manor  of,  298. 

,  Richard  parson  of ,  396. 

Stanton.    See  Staunton. 

Stanway,  Staneweye  [co.  Essex],  366. 

,  parson  of.      See  Stanstede, 

John. 
Stanwell,  Stanewelle,  co.  Middlesex, 

assignment  of  dower  in,  395- 

396. 

,  church  of,  396. 

,  manor  of,  395. 

Moor,  la  More,  396. 

,  places  named  in,  395-396. 

Stanynges.    See  Steyning. 
Stapelaston.     See  Aston. 
Stapelford.    >See  Stapleford. 
Stapelton,      Stapilton,      Brian      de, 

knight,  172,  192,  205. 

,  Robert  son  of  Robert  de,  267. 

,   William   de,   knight   of   the 

shire  of  Cumberland,  273. 


Stapilton.    See  Stapelton,  Stapleton. 

Staple,  Thomas  de,  270. 

staple,  establishment  of,  at  Queens- 
borough,  478,  479. 

,  mayor  of,  95,  104.     See  also 

Pyel,  John. 

,  ....  and  constables  of,  479. 

, ,  at  Ipswich,  103. 

,  ordinance  of,   106,  222. 

Stapleford,  Stapelford,  co.  Wilts, 
manor  of,  9. 

Stapleton,  Stapilton,  co.  Cumber- 
land,  354. 

,     Stapulton    [in    Croft,     co. 

York],  tithes  of,  502. 

Starbottom,  Starbotill  [in  Kettle- 
well],  CO.  York,  manor  of,  438. 

Star  Chamber,  Star  council  chamber, 
the,  310. 

,  assembly  of  wise  men  of  the 

coixncil  in,  237. 

Stathum,  Thomas  de,  of  Lanca- 
slaire,  297. 

statutes  : 

concerning      merchandise      (25 

Edw.    Ill,    cap.  3),  483. 
forbidding   export   of   gold   etc. 

(38  Edw.  Ill,  cap.  1),  141. 
of  false  accusers  (37  Edw.  III. 
cap.    18    and    38    Edw.    Ill, 
cap.  9),  124,  125,  179. 
of  jurors  (38  Edw.  Ill,  cap.  1), 

374,  375. 
of    mortmain,    de    religiosis    (7 
Edw.   I,   cap.   2),   6,   24,   244, 
327,  329,  342,  357,  450. 
of  Provisors  (25   Edw.  Ill,  cap. 

4),  106,  107. 
of    Westminster    the    First     (3 

Edw.  I),   368. 
regulating     sale     of     wine     (31 
Edw.  Ill,  cap.  1),  309,  365. 

tenure    as    of    honours 

(1  Edw.  Ill,  cap.  2,  sec.  13), 
3,  38,  243,  411. 

writs     of     oyer 

and  terminer  {de  Finibus,  27 
Edw.  I,  sec,  3,  and  statute  of 
Northampton,  2  Edw.  Ill, 
sec.   2),  385,   392. 

statutes  merchant,  62,  68,  175,  179, 
189,  190,  194,  198,  199,  278, 
367,   469,   493. 

Staughton,  Great,  co.  Huntingdon, 
Dillington  in,  411. 

Staunford.     See  Stamford. 

Staunford,  Nicholas  de,  clerk,  290. 

Stavmton.    See  Stanton. 

Staunton,  Stanton,  Alice  de,  41. 

,,,,..,  ....  wife  of  John  de,  108. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


645 


Stniinton — cont. 

Hugh  do,  188. 

John  do,  108. 

,  Thomas.  Thomas  de,  497. 

, ,  of  Eype,  204. 

Stavorton  [co.  Northampton], 
Walter  vicar  of,  127,  128. 

Stawell.    See  Stowelle. 

Stayn,  WiUiam  de,  274. 

Stayudrop,  John  de,  of  Westmore- 
land, 71. 

Staynfordbrigge.  See     Stamford 

Bridge. 

Stayngatside  in  Guisbrough  and 
Skelton,  co.  York,  218. 

Stebbenheth.    See  Stepney. 

Stabbing,  Stebbyng  [co.  Essex],  deed 
dated  at,  174. 

Stebonheth.    See  Stepney. 

Stebenheth,  John  son  of  John  de, 
477. 

,  Katherine  wife  of  John  son 

of  John  de,  477. 

,  Walter  son  of  John  son  of 

John  de,  477. 

Stebenhithe.    See  Stepney. 

Stedeman,  William,   372. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  servant  of  John  Percy, 

390. 

steel  heads  for  arrows,  414. 

Steeple,  Staple  [parish  of  Wirks- 
worth],  CO.  Derby,  18. 

Aston.    See  Aston. 

Stef?ord.    See  Seaford. 

Stelle,  Thomas,  323. 

Stephen,  Robert  son  of,  423. 

Cf.  Stevenson. 

Stephnis.     See  Styvyns. 

Steple.    See  Steeple. 

Stepney,  Stebbenheth,  Steben- 
hethe,  Stebenhithe,  Stiben- 
hethe,  Stibenliithe,  co.  Mid- 
dlesex, 53,  422,  477. 

,    parson    of.        See    Saham, 

Richard  de. 

,  Mile  End,  Mileende  in,  491. 

Stepyngle,  Thomas  de,  271. 

Sterre,  Peter,  citizen  of  London,  267. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  of  London,  farmer  of 

subsidy,  282,  349,  381,  427, 
484. 

,  William,  vintner,  of  Lon- 
don, 388. 

Stevenage,  co.  Hertford,  Chells, 
Chelsey  in,  435. 

Stevenes,  Henry,  129. 

Cf.  StyvjTis. 

Stevenson,  John,  bailiff  of  I^rton 
wapentake,    403. 

Cf.  Stephen. 


Steventon,  Styvyngton   [co.   Berks], 

402. 
Stevynton  [in  Ludford],  co. 

Salop,   129. 
Stovington  in  Bartlow  End,  Stovyng- 

ton  in  Berklawe  [in  Ashdon], 

CO.  Essex,  fee  in,  496. 
Stevynton.  See  Steventon. 
Stewkley,Styuecle  [co.  Buckingham], 

manor  of,  40. 
Steyneswey,  John,  of  Tilsworth,  394. 
Steyning,    Stanynges    [co.    Sussex], 

land  and  dependencies  of,  21. 
Stibenhethe,  Stibenhithe.    See  Step- 
ney. 
Stighull,  Styghull,  Constance  wife  of 

William,  425. 

,  William,  64,  425. 

Stiholme.    See  Styholme. 

Stinsford,    Styntesford,    co.    Dorset, 

manor  of,  165,  399,  402. 

,  Frome  Bonvile  in,  165,  399. 

Stirkeland.    See  Strickland. 
Stockhall,    Stokhalle   in   Ulting   [co. 

Essex],  388. 
Stockleigh       Pomeroy,       Stokeleghe 

Pomeray,   co,   Devon,   manor 

of,  364. 
Stockton,   Great   Stokton  [co.   Nor- 
folk], advowson  of,  223. 

,  manor  of,  223. 

Stodawe,  Robert  de,  212. 
Stodeye,  John  de,  12,  13. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  379. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  London,  402. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the  king's  butler,  231, 

232. 

,  Peter  de,  296. 

Stodleye,  Walter  de,  81. 

Stogursey,       co.       Somerset,       Dur- 

borough,  Dourburgh  in,  220. 
Stoil,  John,  495. 
Stoke  [co.  Northampton],  267. 
Archer,      co.      Gloucester, 

manor  of,  157,  219. 
Bruerne,     Stokebruere,    co. 

Northampton,  41,  297. 

in  Hamme,    iSee  Stokenham. 

Milbourne,  co.  Wilts,  456. 

,  North,  Stoke  Bassott,  Stoke- 

basset  [co.  Oxford],  166,  173. 
,    .  .  .  .,   deeds  dated  at,   166, 

173. 
Poges,  Stoke  Pugeys,  Stoke- 

pugeys,  CO.  Buckingham,  deed 

dated  at,  406. 

,  manor  of,  405. 

Stoke,  John,  175. 

,  John  de,  clerk,  467. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  farmer  of  subsidy,  484, 


646 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Stoke — cont. 

,  Richard  de,  of  Coventry,  198. 

Stokebasset,     Stokebruere.  See 

Stoke. 
Stokeleghe.    See  Stockleigh. 
Stokenbirry,  Idonea  (Jordan)  wife  of 

John  de,  10,  11. 

,  John  de,  10,  11. 

Stokenham,    Stoke   in   Hamme,    co. 

Devon,  manor  of,  183. 
Stokepugeys.    See  Stoke  Poges. 
Stokes,  John  de,  487. 

,  William,  clerk,  277. 

Cf.  Stokkes. 

Stokesby,  John  de  495. 

Stokesley,     Stokeslay     [co.     York], 

manor  of,  354. 
Stoketon,     Thomas     de,     of     York, 

girdler,  401. 
Stokhalle.    See  Stockhall. 
Stokkes,  Thomas  son  of  Henry  del, 

of  Wakefield,  83. 

Cf.  Stokes. 

Stokton.      See  Stockton. 
Stokwyth,  John  de,  of  Scarborough, 

296. 
Stonard,   Robert,  coroner  for  Corn- 
wall, 129. 
Stone     [parish     of      Berkeley,     co. 

Gloucester  ?],  265. 
,    CO.    Stafford,    Kibblestone, 

Cublesdon  in,   394. 
by  Dartford,  Stone,  co.  Kent, 

66,  185. 
Stone,  Hugh  atte,  396. 
Stoneham,    Stonham    [co.     Sussex], 

bailiff     of.         See      Preston, 

Thomas  de. 
,  South  [co.  Hants],  Allington 

in,  44,  51. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  Mansbridge  in,  44. 

Stonehouse,  Stonhouse,  co.  Glouces- 
ter, manor  of,  9. 
Stongate,  co.  Norfolk,  312. 
Stongate,  Thomas  de,  mason,  312. 
Stonham.     See  Stoneham. 

,  Earls.     See    Earl    Stonham. 

Stonhouse.     See  Stonehouse. 

Stonhurst,  Peter  de,  51. 

Stonore,  Edmund  son  of  John  de, 

139. 

,  John  de,  82. 

,  knight,  166. 

Stony    Stratford,    Stonystratteford, 

CO.  Northampton  [rectius  co. 

Buckingham],   384. 
Stoppesle,  Alexander  de,  497. 
Stormy.    See  Sturmy. 
Stortford,   Bishop's,   Storteford   [co. 

Hertford],  478. 


Storton.    See  Stourton. 
Storye,  William,  60. 

Cf.  Stury. 

Stote,  John,  391. 

,  William,  192. 

Stotland,  Thomas,   395. 
Stotter,  Robert,  of  Hook,  458. 
Stour    [?  Frome    and],  bailiwick    of 

keeping     rivers     of,      in      co. 

Dorset,  375. 
Stourmenstre  Mareschall.    See  Stur- 

minster  Marshall. 
Stourmouth,  Sturmouth  [co.  Kent], 

373. 
Stourmy.    See  Sturmy. 
Stourmynstre  Mareschale.    See  Stur- 

minster   Marshall. 
Stourton,    Storton    [in    Ivinver],    co. 

Stafford,  manor  of,  37. 
Stouting,  Stoutyng  [co.  Kent],  hun- 
dred of,  198. 

manor  of,  196,  198. 

,  park  of,  198. 

Stow  Bardolph,  Stowe,  co.  Norfolk, 

manor  of,  24,  104. 
Wood,   Stowode,    Stouwode 

[parish  of  Stanton  St.  John], 

CO.    Oxford,    forestership    of, 

230. 

regard  of,  476. 

Stowe.   See  Stowmarket. 

Stowelle,  Stawell,  Matthew  de,  191. 

,    ....    son    of   Geoffrey    de, 

184. 
Stowmarket,  Stowe,  co.  Suffolk,  54. 
Stowode.     See  Stow. 
Strabolgi,  Strabolgy,  David  de,  earl 

of     Athol,      Athele,      Athels, 

Atholl,  80,  81,  164,   200,   222, 

224,  264,  317. 
Stradlyng,  Edward,  knight,  461. 
Stratfield  Mortimer,  Stratfeld  Morty- 

mer,  Stratfeld  [co.  Berks],  208. 

,  letters  close  dated  at,  190. 

,  Tnmkwell  in,  107. 

Stratford,  co.  Essex,  53,  500. 
on  Avon,  Stretford,  Stretford 

upon  Avon,  co.  Warwick,  161. 

:  .  .  .,  deed  dated  at,  161. 

,  Stony.    See  Stony  Stratford. 

Stratford,  Andrew  de,  208. 

Cf.  Stretford. 

Stratton,    co.    Cornwall,    manor    of, 

501. 
,    Long,    Longestratton    [co. 

Norfolk],  church  of  St.  Mary, 

377. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  377. 

St.   Margarets,   Netherstrat- 

ton,  CO.  Wilts,  256. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


647 


Stratton,  Ellon  wife  of  William  de, 
3GG. 

,  Henry,    parson    of     Check- 

ondon,    1 66. 

,    Laurence    de,    burgess    of 

Northampton,   169. 

,     Thomas     de,     parson     of 

Blatherwycko,  41 L  412. 

,  William  do,  knight,  366. 

Strootley,  Stretoloye,  Strettleye,  co. 
Cambridge,  350. 

,  Gambonesplace  in,  350. 

Strelleye,  Margaret  wife  of  Philip  de, 
339. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  assignment  of  dower 

to,  475. 

,  Philip  son  of  William,  475. 

,  Sampson  do,  knight  of  the 

shire  of  Nottingham,  480. 

Strete,  Henry  atte,  383. 

,  Jolon  atte,  207. 

,    Simon    atte,    called    Simon 

Wynkel  of  Beetley,  489. 

,   William,   William  atte,   de, 

del,  69,  385. 

,   . .  .  . ,  the  king's  butler,  17, 

18,  122,  129,  216,  226,  418. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  coroner  for  Lon- 
don, 362. 

Stretele,  John  de,  dean  of  Lincoln, 
490. 

Streteleye.    See  Streetley. 

Stretford  [in  Manchester,  co.  Lan- 
caster], 474. 

See  Stratford. 

Stretford.  John  de,  392. 

Cf.  Stratford. 

Strettleye.    See  Streetley. 

Stretton.     See  Sturton. 

Stretton,  Robert,  bishop  of  Coven- 
try and  Lichfield,  473. 

Strewe,  Robert,  286. 

Strickland,  Stirkeland,  co.  West- 
moreland, 240. 

Strivelyn.    See  Stryvelyn. 

Strode,  Nicholas,  383. 

,  William,  164. 

Strogoil.    See  Chepstow. 

Strokelady,  William,  192. 

Strother,  Alan  de,  del,  292,  349. 

,  Henry  de,  del,  292,  298,  349. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  sheriflF  of  Northumber- 
land, 150. 

,  Hugh  de,  288. 

Stryvelyn,  Strivelyn,  Jacoba  (de 
Emeldon)  wife  of  Jolin,  96, 
234,  332. 

,  John,  Jolm  de,  96,  252,  332, 

356,  426. 

,  knight,  234. 


Sturminster  Marshall,  Stourmonstro 
Marosohall,  Stoiymynstre 

Maroschalo,  co.  Dorset,  435. 

,  presentation  to  vicarage  of, 

224. 

Sturmouth.    See  Stourmouth. 

Sturmy,    Stormy,    Stourniy,    Henry, 
208,  486. 

,  .....  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Wilts,  480. 

, ,  of  Wilts,  270. 

,  Joan  wife  of  Robert,  286. 

,   Juliana  wife  of  William,  226. 

,    Robert,  376. 

,   William,  226. 

Sturton,  Little,  Little  Stretton,  co. 
Lincoln,  322. 

Stury,  John,  367. 

,  Richard,  Richard  de,  356. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  escheator  of  Ireland, 

150,  232,  425. 

,     .  .  .  . ,    keeper    of    measures 

and  weights  in  Ireland,   146, 
150. 

Cf.  Storye. 

Stuteville,  John  de,  423. 

Styghull.    See  Stighull. 

Styholme,    Stiholme,    John    son    of 
Richard  de,  145,  319. 

Styntesford.    See  Stinsford. 

Styuecle.     See  Stewkley. 

Styuecle,  Nicholas  de,  411,  412. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  escheator  in  Bucking- 
hamshire, 458. 

,    ....    in   Cambridge- 
shire, 454. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Huntingdon,  273,  480 

,  .  .  .  . ,  sheriff  of  Huntingdon- 
shire, 144. 

Styvyngton.    See  Steventon. 

Styvyns,      Stephnis,      Thomas,      of 
Standlake,  471,  474. 

Cf.  Stevenes. 

Styward,  Thomas,  chaplain,  148. 

subadmiral    towards   the   west,    the 
king's,    102,    103. 

Sublipston.     See  Slipton. 

subsidies.    See  taxation. 

Sudbury.     Sodbery,     Siidbery     [co. 
Suffolk],  manor  of,  186. 

Sudbury,  Soddeburv,  Sudbery,  John 
de,    186,    200,  491. 

,  Roger,  Roger  de,  48,  82,  398. 

,  Simon  de,  bishop  of  London, 

55,  102,  123,  351,  451. 

Suffolk,  county  of,  56,   60,  72,   176, 
184,  378,  387,  482. 

,    collectors    of    customs    and 

searchers  of  forfeitures  in,  1 1 , 


648 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Suffolk — cont. 

,  earl  of.    See  Ufford,  Robert 

de. 
,  escheator  in.   See  Wolfreton, 

Roger  de. 
guard  of  creeks  and  privy 

places  in,  6. 
,  justices  of  assize  in,  164,  224, 

264. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  169, 

480. 

,  sessions  in,  63. 

sheriff  of,   27,   46,   60,    138, 

219,  224,  317,  370,  376,  433, 

445. 

subsidy  in,  203. 

Sugworth,     Richard     de,     chaplain, 

298,  299. 
Sulferton.     See  Silverton. 
Sullington,    Sullyngton,    co.    Sussex, 

parson     of.  See     Tomys, 

Richard. 
Sully.   -SeeScilly. 
Svilly,  Isabel  wife  of  John  de,  50. 

,  John  de,  50. 

Sullyngton.    See  Sullington. 
Sumnour,  Richard,  491. 

Cf.  Somenour. 

sumpter  service,  233. 

Sundridge    [co.    Kent],   Henden   in, 

178,  196,  198. 
Surrey,  county  of ,  43.  63,  66,  159,  171, 

187,  279,  280,  302,  365,  369, 

396,  459. 
,  earl  of.    See  Warenna,  John 

de. 
,    escheator    in.        See    Tye, 

John  de. 
knights  of  the  shire  of,  168, 

272,  481. 

,  sheriff  of,  97. 

subsidy  in,  204,  381. 

Surteys,  Gosselin,  176. 

Sussex,  county  of,  50,  55,  77,  85, 
163,  165,  262,  263,  264,  271, 
277,  279,  280,  367,  466,  473, 
488. 

,  arrayers  of  men  at  arms  etc. 

in,  326. 

escheator  in .     See  Hatton , 

William  de  ;    Tye,  Jolin  de. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  168, 

273,  480. 

,  sheriff  of,  138. 

,  subsidy  in,  204,  381. 

Sussex,    Maud   wife    of    Robert    de, 

tenant  in  cliief,  339. 
Suthampton.     See  Southampton. 
Suthavene.    See  Avon,  South. 
Suthcote.    See  Southcote. 


Suthcote,  John  de,  290,  291. 
Suthfiete.     See  Soutlifleet. 
Suthwerk.     See  Southwark. 
Suthwyke.    See  Southwick. 
Sutton,  CO.  Bedford,  12. 
,  Sutton  by  Stefford  {sic)  [in 

Seaford],  co.  Sussex,  497. 

atte  Hone,  co.  Kent,  384. 

Basset    [co.    Northampton], 

46. 
,    Bishop,    CO.    Southampton, 

chancery  at,  479. 
Courtney,     Ciirteneye     [co. 

Berks],  402.  475,  476. 
,  East,  CO.  Kent,  Charlton  by 

Sutton  Valence  in,  495. 
Frene,        Suttonfren        [in 

Harden,    co.    Ho.reford],   287. 
in  the  Marsh,  by  Markby,  co. 

Lincoln,   322. 
,     Little,     Litel     [in     Sutton 

Veney,  co.  Wilts],  deeds  dated 

at,  193,  194. 

,   .  .  .  .,  manor  of,   193. 

Lucy,  CO.  Devon,  74,  180,  266. 

on  Derwent,  upon  Derwent, 

CO.  York,  340. 

,  manor  of,  417. 

on  the  Forest,  in  Galtrys,  co. 

York,  manor  of,  361. 
Prior,    by    Plummuth,    co. 

Devon,  vicar  of.     See  Rynges- 

tede,  Ralph  de. 

vicarage  of,  256,  257. 

Veney,  Great  Sutton,  Michel 

Sutton  [CO.  WUts],  193. 
Sutton,     Alice    wife    of    John    de, 

knight,    186. 
,  Edmund  de,  son  of  Hamon 

de,  of  Whixhoe,  268. 

Ellis  de,  clerk,  387,  388. 

.......  Griffin  {or  Simon)  de,  415. 

,  Henry  de,  citizen  of  London, 

315. 

,  Isabel  de,  503. 

,  John  de,  296,  503. 

, knight,  161,  488. 

, ,  of  Wivenhoe,  91. 

,    ,    the  elder,  242, 

243. 
,  .  .  . ., the  son,  186,  461, 

463. 
,  of  Lincoln,  aldemaan 

of  Calais,  179. 

,  .  .  . . ,  of  London,  503. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  of  Settrington,  467. 

,  the  elder,  11,  197. 

,    icnight  of  the 

shire  of  Essex,  169. 
,  .  .  . . ,  the  younger,  197. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


649 


Sutton — cont. 

John  son  of  John  de,  171. 

,    Lawrence   de,    of   Notting- 

liamshiro,  314,  315. 
,  Nicholas  de,  of  Hornchurch, 

209. 

,  Peter  do,  486. 

,   Richard  do,    17,    197,    461, 

463. 
,   escheator  in   Lanca- 
shire, 31,  145,  219,  222,  239, 

249,  319. 

,  Simon  {or  Griffin)  de,  415. 

,  Thomas  de,  188. 

Suttonfren.     See  Sutton  Frene. 
Swaffham,  Swafliam,  co.  Cambridge, 

77. 
Prior,  Priour,  Swafhara  Prior, 

CO,  Cambridge,  86. 
,  advowson  of  chapel  of, 

53. 

,  manor  of,  52,  213. 

Swale,  William  de,  210. 
Swallowfield,     Swalefeld,     Swalewe- 

feld  [co.  Berks],  208. 
Beames,    Beaumys   in,    107, 

208. 

,  Farley  in,  208. 

,  Shipbridge  in,  208. 

Swanescompe.    See  Swanscomibe. 
Swanlieved     in     Guisborough,     co. 

York,  218. 
Swanlond,  Isabel   wife  of  John,  35. 

,  John,  35. 

,    Simon    de,    merchant      of 

London,   163. 

,  William  de,  69,  268,  471. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Middlesex,    169. 
,  .....  son  of  Simon  de,  163, 

188. 
Swannacott,  Swaycote  [in  Week  St. 

Mary],    co.    Cornwall,  manor 

of,  501. 
Swanscombe,       Swanescompe',       co. 

Kent,  65. 
Swanton,  John  de,  king's  serjeant, 

391,  392. 
Swardeston,      Swerdistonefeld,      co. 

Norfolk,  312. 
,  Gowthorpe,  Goukethorpe  in, 

497. 
Swavesey,     Swaveseye     [co.     Cam- 
bridge], 61. 
Swaycote.     See  Swannacott. 
Sweetman,     MUes,      archbishop     of 

Armagh,   181. 
Swenton.     See  Swinton. 
Sweny.  WilUam,  218. 
Swerdistonefeld.    See  Swardeston. 


Swerford.  Svvoroford,  co.  Oxford,  3. 

Sweyn,  Alice,  395. 

Swindon,    co.    ^Vilts,    Eastcote    and 

Westlocote  in,  242. 
swine,  price  of,  455. 
Swinton,  Swenton  [parish  of  Eccles, 

CO.   Lancaster],   474. 
Swon,  John  lo,  of  Farnham,  503. 
swords,  marks  put  upon,  182. 
Swyft,  John,  of  Pakefield,  73. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  parson  of  Clapham,  5. 

,  Katherino  wife  of  John,  73. 

Swylyngton,  Robert  de,  loiight,  42,  66. 
Swy^n,     water     of     [in    estuary     of 

river  Colne,  co.  Essex],  157. 
Swynbourne,  Robert  de,  knight,  186. 
Swyne,  WiUiam  de,  428. 
S\vynestode,  Jolui  son  of  Robert  de, 

171. 
Swynhird,  William,  neif,  285. 
Swynhope,  Richard  de,  clerk,  288. 
Swynithwait,   Geoffrey  son   of   Wil- 
liam de,  212. 
SwynlescheUes,  Swynleischeles.     See 

Shield   Dyke  ? 
Swynnerton,  John  de,  of  Hilton,  205. 
,   .  .  .  . ,   .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the 

peace  and  justice  of  oyer  and 

terminer  in  Staffordsliire,  289. 
Swyre,  co.  Dorset,  257. 
Sybford,  Peter  de,  487. 

,  Richard  de,  487. 

Sydenham,   Richard,   366. 
Symondsbury,     co.     Dorset,     Eype, 

Yepe  in,  204. 
Symondset.    See  Simonside. 
Synthorp  [in  manor  of  Kilnsea,  co. 

York],  315. 
Sysonby,    Sixteneby,    co.    Leicester, 

419. 
Syward,  John  son  of  Roger,  399,  402. 

,  Maud  wife  of  Roger,  399,  402. 

,  Roger,  of  Dorchester,399,402. 

Sywardeston.     See  Sewardstone. 
Sywell  [co.  Northampton],  85. 


T 

Taillour,   Tailliour,    Taylour,    John, 
173,   283,  391. 

,  Michael,  312. 

,  Simon,  490. 

,  WiUiam  le,  463. 


650 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Taillour,  William  le~—cont. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Burnham,  chaplain, 

56,  165. 
Takeley,  Takeleye,  co.  Essex,  62. 
Talbot,  Talebot,  Gilbert,  18,  109. 
,  John,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Leicester,  480. 

, ,  of  Dublin,  93. 

,  Perina  wife  of  Gilbert,   18, 

109. 
,  Richard,  the  king's  steward, 

338. 
tallage.    See  taxation. 
Talmache,  John,  of  Hants,  484,  485. 
Tamworth,      Thameworth,      Tham- 

worth.    Jolin   de,    clerk,    168, 

169,  193. 

,   .  .  .  . ,   .  .  .  . ,  of  London,  401. 

, ,  of  Yaxley,  42,  43. 

,  Nicholas  de,  knight,  28,  193, 

389. 
,  . .  . . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Berks,  273. 
,  .  .  .  . ,    ....    of   the  shire   of 

Cornwall,  168. 

Cf.  Tomworth. 

Tancarville,Tankarville  [France,  dep. 

Seine-Inferieure],      count     of. 

See  John. 
Tanet.    See  Thanet. 
Tangele.    See  Tangley. 
Tangemere.    See  Tangmere. 
Tangley,  Tangele,  co.  Southampton, 

253. 
Tangmere,  Tangemere  [co.   Sussex], 

Richard  parson  and  bailiff  of, 

455. 
Tankarville.    See  Tancarville. 
Tanner,  Andrew,  rector  of  All  Saints, 

Dorchester,  399,  402. 

,  Nicholas,   195. 

Tarrant  Crawford,  Tarente  Preston, 

CO.  Dorset,  389. 
Keynston,  Tarente,  Tarente 

Keynes,  co.  Dorset,  abbess  of, 

133,  134. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  steward  of.    See 

Brunyng,  John. 

,  manor  of,  227. 

Rushton,  Tarente  Russhton, 

CO.  Dorset,  389. 

,  deed  dated  at,  389. 

Vilers,    Tarente    Vilers    [in 

Tarrant  Rushton],  co.  Dorset, 

62,  389. 

,  deed  dated  at,  389. 

Tarring,  West,  Terrynge  [co.  Sussex], 

bailiff  of,  455. 
Tarrington,  Tatynton,  co.  Hereford, 

294. 


Tasburgh  [co.  Norfolk],  378. 
Tattershall,  Tateshale  [co.  Lincoln], 
barony  of,  228,  439. 

,   castle  and  manor  of;    322, 

323. 

,    parson   of.       See   Kirkeby, 

Thomas  de. 

Thorpe,  Thorp  by  Tateshale, 

CO.  Lincoln,   322. 
Tatynton.    See  Tarrington. 
Tauceby.    See  Tolesby. 
Tauk,  Tawk,  William,  85,  175,   178, 

264,  277,  289,  298,  472. 
Taverner,  John,  442. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Worcester,  103. 

,  Philip,  of  London,  402. 

,  Richard,  of  Chelmsford,  366. 

,     William     le,     burgess     of 

Leominster,   481. 
Tawk.    >SeeTauk. 
taxation  : 

alnage.    See  alnage. 
cornage,  31,  36,  96. 
customs,  31,  96,  143,  146,  153, 
258,  356,  362,  364,  416,  418, 
441. 

ancient,  246,  315. 

,  collection  of,  23,  24. 

,  evasion  of,  24. 

on  cloth,  215,  334. 

on  wine,  334. 

on  wool,  25,  26,  95,  104, 

120,  315,  335,  455. 
immunities     of     Cinque     Ports, 

325,  326. 
of  clergy,  new  and  old,  151. 
subsidies,  31,  96,  104,  143,  146, 
153,  416. 

,  clerical,  2,  6,  151. 

,  farm  of,  70,  71,  89,  203, 

204,  281,  282,  380,  381,  484. 

for  defence  of  Ireland, 

213,  326. 

granted  by  lords  of  Irish 

land,  resident  in  England,  15, 
41,  42,  110. 

in  lieu  of  forfeiture  of 

alnage,  70,  281. 

of  moiety  of  tenth  and 

fifteenth,  115,  119. 

on   cloth,    88,    89,    349, 

427. 

on  wool,  120. 

tallage,  102,  326,  341,  443. 
Taylour.    See  Tailour. 
Tednambury,   Tydenham    by    Saw- 
bridgeworth,     co.      Hertford, 
fee  in,  496. 
Tees,  These,  river,  court  for  search  of, 
286. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


651 


Temedobury,  Walter  de,  farmer  of 

subsidy,   203. 

Cf.  Teiitebury. 

Tempest,  Hicliard,  365. 

Tomse.    See  Tlioineso. 

Toiidring,     Toiidriugge,     co.     Essex, 

churcli  of,  91. 

,  deed  dated  at,  91. 

Tendrynge,   Tendryngge,   Ralph  de, 

463. 
,    William    de,    knight,    461, 

463. 
Tenhyde.     See  Tinhead. 
Tentobury,  Walter  de,  56,  165. 

Cf.  Temedebury. 

tenures  : 

burgage,  332,  413,  417. 

by  courtesy  of  England,  25,  36, 

321,  346,  352,  410,  444,  452, 

456,  474. 
fee  taa,  325. 
free  burgage  in  city  of  London, 

24,  447,  450. 
gavelkind,  26,  408,  459. 
grand  serjeanty,  221. 
See  also  services. 
Terling,    Terlyng    [co.    Essex],    197, 

294. 
terrage,  20,  443. 
Terri.     See  Terry. 
Terrington,    co.    York,    Mowthorpe, 

Multhorp  in,  357. 
Terry,  Terri,  Henry,   389. 

,  Joan,  282. 

;  Jolm,  173. 

,  William,  called  Pottere,  387. 

Terrynge.    See  Tarring. 

Tetbury,  Tettebury,  co.  Gloucester, 

manor  of,  329,  422. 
Tetlyngbery,  Master  William,  clerk, 

55. 
Tettebxiry.    See  Tetbury. 
Tevole,     Peter     de,     prior      of     St. 

Saviour's,  Bermondsey,   377. 
Tew,  Tiewe,  Little,  co.  Oxford,  fee 

in,  496. 
Tey,  Teye,  Great  [co.  Essex],  parson 

of.      See  Wyllyngham,   John 

de. 
Teye,  Robert  de,  171,  461. 
Tejmton,    Richard    de,    surveyor    of 

works  at  Windsor,  412. 
Thame,  co.  Oxford,  abbot  of,  290. 
Thames,    Thamise,    river,    48,     192, 

222. 

barge  for  passage  of,  335. 

,  fish  from,  75. 

,  keepers  of  passage  in,  364. 

,  searcher  in.    See  Sholdham, 

Reynold  de. 


Thames  Ditton,  co.  Surrey,  Ember, 

Ymeworth  in,   325. 
Thameworth.      See  Tamworth. 
Thamise.     See  Thames. 
Thamworth.     See  Tamworth. 
Thanet,   Tanot,   Isle  of   [co.    Kent], 

bailiffs  of,  137,  370. 

,  customers  etc.  of,  137. 

Theddlethorpe,  Thidelthorp,  co.  Lin- 
coln,  205. 
Thekenos,    Thykkenes,    William   de, 

coroner  for  co.  Stafford,  101, 

429. 
Theleworth.    See  Ciielworth. 
Thelnetham  [co.  Suffolk],  279. 
Thelwall,  Thomas  de,  319. 
,    ,    clerk,    68,    208,    296, 

374,  375,  387,  388,  393. 
,    parson  of  Polebrook, 

280,  374,  375. 
Themese,  Temse,  Themeso,  Thomas, 

Thomas  de,  195,  369,  503. 
Thenford,     Nicholas,     Nicholas    de, 

297,  366,  464. 
These.    See  Tees. 
Thevegate.    See  Evegate. 
Theydon     Gernon,      Theydon,      co. 

Essex,  fees  in,  495. 
Thidelthorp.    See  Theddlethorpe. 
Thiderisham.     See  Hixham  ? 
Thirlwall,  John  de,  354. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  of  Alstonby,  403. 

Thirnham.    See  Farnham. 
Thisteldon,   Alice  de,  wife  of  John 

Bishop,  329. 

,  Richard  de,  329. 

Thoky.    See  Toky. 

Thomas  earl  of  Lancaster,  112. 

Thomas,  John  son  of,  285,  287. 

,  .  .  .  .,  de  Astelee,  187. 

,  Richard  son  of,  283. 

son  of   John  son  of, 

286. 

Roger  son  of,  neif,  286. 

,  William  son  of  John  son  of, 

285. 
Thomastown,    Tomaston,     co.    Kil- 
kenny, 425. 
Thomley,  Thomell  [parish  of  Water- 
perry],  CO.  Oxford,  230. 
Thoralby,  Thoraldeby  [in  Aysgarth], 

CO.  York,  manor  of,  351. 
Thoren,  Richard  de,  clerk,  293. 
Thoresby,  John  de,  212. 
,    .  .  . . ,   archbishop  of  York, 

58,  59,  89.  151,  210,  468,  496. 
Thorgot,     Robert,     of     Patrington, 

390. 
Thornage,    Thorleye,     co.     Norfolk, 

fee  in,  497. 


652 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Thome,  Avice  daughter  of  Nicholas 

de,  102. 
,      Elizabeth      daughter      of 

Nicholas  de,  102. 
,  Maud  (de  Villers)  daughter 

of  Nicholas  de,  102. 

,  Nicholas  de,  101. 

Thorne   Falcon,   Thornesfaucon   [co. 

Somerset],  manor  of,  47. 
Thornefrith,  Walter  atte,  de,  178. 
Thornesfaucon.    See  Thorn  Falcon. 
Thorneton.    See  Thornton. 
Thorneton,  John  de,  402. 
,  Thomas  de,  pavyUoner,  189, 

336. 
,    .  .  .  . ,  the  king's  pavilioner, 

491. 
Thorney     abbey     [co.     Cambridge], 

abbot  of.     See  Haddon,  Wil- 
liam de. 
,  ....    and  convent    of, 

490. 
,  prior  and  convent   of, 

149. 

,  voidance  of,  149. 

[co.     Suffolk],     manor     of, 

184. 
Thorneye,  Thomas  de,  372,  459. 
Thornham  [co.  Kent],  Aldington  in, 

185. 
Thornhull,  Walter  de,  70. 
Thornton,   Thorne ton-upon-Humber 

abbey   [in   Thornton   Curtis], 

prior  of,  439. 

Robert  abbot  of,  33. 

,  vacancy  of,  33,  34. 

Lonsdale,  in  Lonesdale  [cos. 

York  and  Lancaster],  7. 
Risebrough,  under  Risebergh, 

CO.  York,  manor  of,  345. 
Steward,  Styward,  co.  York, 

manor  of,  430. 
Thorpe,  Foiilesthorp  [in  Trusthorpe] , 

CO.  Lincoln,  205 
Bulmer,   Thorpbulmere   [co. 

Durham],  manor  of,  418. 
by  Tateshale.  See  Tattershall 

Thorpe. 
Thorpe,  Edmund  de,  448,  451. 

,   ,  knight,  469,  474. 

,  ....,  of  Norfolk,  267. 

,  Ellis  de,  skinner,  of  London, 

269. 

,  John  de,  171. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  king's  clerk,  235. 

,  warden  of  the  king's 

money,    of    the   mint   in   the 

Tower  of  London,    115,   235, 

236,  258. 
Robert  de,  90,  468. 


Thorpe,  Robert  de — cont. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    chief   justice    of    the 

Common  Bench,  205. 

, ,  clerk,  266. 

, ,  jvistice,  114,  123,  274, 

275,  288. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  of  assize  in  Cam- 
bridgeshire,   265. 

,   .  .  .  . , in  Sufiolk, 

164,  222,  264,  317. 

, of  the  Bench,  426. 

, ,  knight,  465,  469. 

,  summons  of,  to  parlia- 
ment, 211. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  surveyor  of  Hunting- 
don bridge,  39. 

,  Thomas  de,  clerk,  185. 

,  William  de,  234,  235. 

Thorpton.     *See  Thropton. 

Thrapston  [co.  Northainpton],  366, 
464. 

Thrasterston.     See  Tliriston. 

Threm worth.    See  Trem worth. 

Thrisseford,  William  de,  parson  of 
St.  Michael,  Crooked  Lane, 
London,   321. 

Thriston,  Thrasterston  [in  Felton], 
CO.  Northumberland,  manor 
of,   438. 

Throcking,  Throkkyngge  [co.  Hert- 
ford], rector  of.  *See  Brian, 
John. 

Thropton,  Thorpton  [parish  of  Roth- 
bury],  CO.  Northiimberland, 
140. 

Thrustonton.    See  Thurston. 

Thunder  sleigh,  Thunderlee,  co. 
Essex,  manor  of,  382. 

Thurbern,  Ralph,  279. 

Thurgarton,  co.  Nottingham,  prior 
of,   492. 

Thurk.    See  Tvu-k. 

Thurmaston,  Thomas  de,   235,   316. 

Thurston,  co.  Suffolk,  Little  Haugh, 
Littlehawe  in,  436. 

,  Thrustonton  [in  Hawkedon], 

CO.  Suffolk,  manor  of,  469. 

Thweng,  Thomas  de,  283. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  parson  of  Upleatham, 

295. 

Thykkenes.    See  Thekenes. 

Thyngden,  Robert  de,  chaplain  of 
the  king's  chapel  of  New- 
castle-upon-TjTie,   149. 

Thyngliill,  William  de,  official  of  the 
bishop  of  Lincoln,  414. 

Thyrnesco,  John  son  of  Henry  son 
of  Simon  de,  chaplain,  7. 

Thymyng,  William,  366. 

Tibbetot.    See  Tibetot. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


653 


Tibeteu,  Walter,  of  Mickloton,   161. 
Tibetot,    Tibbetot,    Tybetot,    Eliza- 
beth wife  of  John,  Mli. 

John,  331,  34;}. 

, do,  knight,  340.  341. 

,  Margaret  wife  of  John  de, 

340,  341. 
,    ....   wife      of      John      [or 

Robert],  331. 

Robert,  331. 

,    .....  lord  of  Langar,   501, 

502. 
,    ....    son  of  John  de,   340, 

341. 
Ticheborne,  John,  knight,  485. 
Tickhill,  Tykhull  castle  [co.  York], 

constable  of,  159. 
Tiddekenhowclose.         See     Tidkin- 

howe. 
Tidecombe,    William    de,    bailiff    of 

Wingham,  456. 
Tidkinhowe,     Tiddekenhowclose     in 

Skelton,  co.  York,  284. 
Tiece,   John,   bailiff  of  Canterbury, 

373. 
Tiewe.    See  Tew,  Tu. 
Tiffield,    Tiffeld,    co.    Northampton, 

307,  434. 
Tildesle,  Haukin  de,  of  Lancashire, 

297. 
Tillesworth.    See  Tilsworth. 
Tillington,    Tulynton    [in     Bnrghill, 

CO.  Hereford],  176. 
Tillioll,  Tilliol,  Felicia  wife  of  Robert, 

knight,  354. 
,  Robert,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Cumberland,   169. 
Tilney  [co.  Norfolk],  271. 
Tilneye,  Tylneye,  Frederick  de,  93. 
,    .  .  .  . ,   collector  of  customs 

at  Boston,  250. 
Tilsworth,  Tillesworth  [co.  Bedford], 

394. 
Timworth,  Tymeworth  [co.  Suffolk], 

279. 
tin,  stampage  of,  113. 
Tinhead,  Tenhyde  [in  Edington],  co. 

Wilts,  manor  of,  192. 
Tingrith,  Tyngrie,  co.  Bedford,  fee 

in,  497. 
Tirwhit,  Tyrwhit,  Ellis,  153. 

,  Ralph,  63. 

,  WilHam,  clerk,  77,  277. 

TireU.    See  Tyrell. 

Tiryngton,  Tyryngton,   William  de, 

clerk,  205. 
Titclimarsh,  Tychemersh  [co.  North- 
ampton], 366. 

,  lord  of.    See  Lovel,  John. 

Titeshale,  Thomas,  489. 


Tithoby.    See  Tythby. 

Titsoy,  Tycheseyo,  co.  Surrey,  83. 

Tittenhanger,     Tytonangre     [in     St. 

Fetor's],  co.  Hertford,  298. 
Tittosham,  Richard  de,  knight,  184 
Tobwortli,    Robert,    chaplain,    338, 

339. 
Todyngton,  John,  chaplain,   161. 
Toft,  Toft  by  Wytham  [in  Witham], 

CO.  Lincoln,  manor  of,  439. 
Toft,  John,  386. 

,   clerk,  386. 

Tofts    (farm),  the  Toftes  in  Marske, 

CO.  York,  284. 
Toky,  Thoky,  Richard,  92,  120,  381, 

382,  487,  488,  500. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  the  younger,  93. 

Tolesby,       Tauceby,      ToUesby     in 

Clyveland     [in    Marton,     co. 

York],  105. 
Toller,   Andrew,   chantry   of,   in   St. 

Martin's  in  Micklegate  church, 

York,  332. 

,  Richard,  of  York,  332,  333. 

Tollesby  in  Clyveland.    See  Tolesby. 
Tomaston.     See  Thomastown. 
Tomworth,  John,  383. 

Cf.  Tamworth. 

Tomys,  Richard,  parson  of  Sulling- 

ton,   5. 
Tonbridge,    Tonebrugge    [co.  Kent], 

184. 
Tongham  [in  Seal],  co.  Surrey,  502. 
Topcliffe,  Topcliff,  co.  York,  438. 
Topclyf,  William  de,  456. 
Toppesfield,   Toppesfeld,   co.   Essex, 

433. 
Topsham,  Toppesham  [co.  Devon], 

bailiffs  of,  91. 
Torbok,  Henry  de,  .490. 
Tornegold,  John,  alderman  of  Bay- 

nard's  Castle,  London,  192. 
,    .  .  .  . ,     citizen    of    London, 

379. 
Tornour.    See  Turnour. 
Torperle,  Richard,  220. 
Torrington,    Great,     Chepyngtoriton 

[co.  Devon],  manor  of,  191. 

,  la  Wodein,  191. 

Toseland,    Touleslond    hundred,    co. 

Huntingdon,    39. 
Tossen,   Tossam   [in   Rothbury],  co. 

Northumberland,  320,  327. 
Toteneys.     See  Totnes. 
Totenhale,  John  de,  163. 

Cf.  Totliale. 

Totenham.     See  Tottenham. 
Totesham,  Richard  de,   128. 
Tothale,  Alice,  493. 
Cf.  Totenhale. 


654 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Totham,  Great,  co.  Essex,  197. 

,  Little,  CO.  Essex,   197. 

Totnes,    Little,    Litel  Toteneys,  co. 

Devon,  manor  of,  27. 
Tottenham,  Totenham  [co.  Middle- 
sex], 294. 

,  deed  dated  at,  294. 

Touleslond.    See  Toseland. 

Tounnam,  Adam,  of  Aglionby,  38. 

Tournour.    See  Turnour. 

Tours,  John,  295. 

Touthorp    [in    Belton    park  ?],     co. 

Lincoln,   420. 
Tracy,  John,  knight  of  the  shire  of 
Gloucester,   273,   480. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  sheriff  of  Gloucester, 

265. 
trades  : 

armourers,  85,  398,  460. 
braisier,  184. 
brauderer,  93. 
brewers,  278,  393. 
butcher,  304. 
carpenters,  72,  488. 
chandlers,  173,  188,  307,  489. 
clothmaker,   88. 
cooks,  304,  398. 
cordwainers,  93,  208,  209. 
drapers,    75,    88,    97,    161,    188, 
193,   197,  205,  208,  279,  315, 
379,  468,  469. 
dyer,   173. 
ferrour,  72. 
fisher,  58. 
fishmongers,  64,  74,  92,  170,  205, 

304,  490. 
fourbour,  384. 
fuller,  427. 
girdlers,   173,  401. 
goldsmiths,    77,    85,    172,    203, 

263,  269,  331,  388. 
grocer,  178. 
hosier,  369. 
hosteler,  93. 
ironmonger,  204. 
leadbeater,  315. 
mercers,  55,  178,  208,  209,  377, 

398,  477,  489,  490,  491. 
pavilioners,   189,  336. 
pelter,  281. 
pepperers,    92,    208,    277,    459, 

461. 
poulterer,  24. 
Sherman,  209. 
skinners,  82,  97,  209,  269,  381, 

469,  488,  491. 
spicers,  93,  189,  324,  336. 
stockfishmongers,    398,    487. 
tailors,  85,  93,  188,  208,  307,  338, 
363. 


trades — cont. 

taverner,  381. 

vintners,    44,     74,   75,   76,   258, 

280,  310,  365,  388. 
waxchandler,   173. 
woodmonger,  85. 
Trafford    [in   Manchester,    co.    Lan- 
caster], 474. 
Traily.    See  Trayly. 
Trallong,  Trallan  [co.  Brecon],  pre- 
bend of,  in  church  of  Aberg- 

wili,   125. 
Travers,  John,  of  Littleton,  268. 
Trayly,  Traily,  John,  447. 

, son  of  John,  125,  261. 

treasury,  the,  39,  40,  49,  104,  276,  454. 

,  disused  seals  placed  in,  72. 

Treeton,  Treton,  co.  York,  manor  of, 

147. 
Treganon,  Hugh,  48. 
Tremayn,  Jolin,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Cornwall,  273. 
Tremworth,  Thremworth    [in    Crun- 

dale],  CO.  Kent,  300,  301. 

,  manor  of,  230,  415. 

Trenaswethen,   Hervey,   coroner  for 

Cornwall,   97. 
Trencrick,  Trenkruc  [in  St.  Gennys], 

CO.  Cornwall,  manor  of,  501. 
Trent  [co.  Somerset],  parson  of.    See 

Pikwell,  William  de. 
Tresilian,  Tresilyan.     See  TrisHian. 
Treton.    See  Treeton. 
Treton,  Margaret  wife  of  Roger    de, 

423. 

,  Roger  de,  423. 

Trevaswethen .     See  Trenaswethen. 
Treweman,     Maud     Lovel     wife     of 

Thomas,  278,  279. 
Trewoef,  John,  coroner  of  Cornwall, 

228. 
Trewynnard,  Reynold,  281. 
Trillo,  TrUlowe,  Tryllowe,  Joan  wife 

of  John,  288. 
,  John,  John  de,  knight,  45, 

83,   161. 
,   . .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  ■  shire  of 

Berks,  169. 
,...., of    Oxford, 

273. 
,    .  .  .  . ,   knight,   the  younger, 

288. 

,  Thomas,  471. 

Cf.  Trippelowe. 

Tring,  co.   Hertford,   Pendley,   Pen- 
dele  in,  207. 
Triple,  Tryple,  John,  John  de,  269, 

491. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  London,  422, 

Cf.  Trippelowe. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


655 


Trippe,  John,  of  Marlborough,  408. 

Trippolowo,  John,  391. 

Cf.  Trillo,  Triple. 

Trisilian,  Tresilinn,  Trosilyan, 
Robert,  161,  471,  472,  474. 

Tristrem,  Richard,  367. 

tronage,   443. 

Troubrigge.     See  Trowbridge. 

Troubrik,  Edward  de,  130,  131. 

Trowbridge,  Troubrigge,  Trou- 
brugge,  CO.  Wilts,  castle  and 
manor  of,   112. 

Trower,  Robert,  282. 

Troye,  John,  197. 

,  ....  de,  king's  clerk,  treas- 
urer of  Ireland,  150. 

Trumpynton,  Roger  de,  guardian 
of  the  peace  and  justice  of 
oyer  and  terminer  in  Beds, 
467. 

Trunkwell  in  Stratfield  Mortimer, 
CO.  Berks,  107. 

Trussell,  Trussel,  Theobald,  knight, 
of  Northamptonshire,   274. 

,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Northampton,   168,  273,  480. 

,     William,     of     Kibblestone, 

knight,  394. 

Trusthorpe,  co.  Lincoln,  322. 

Foulesthorpe  in,  205. 

Tryllowe.    See  Trillowe. 

Tryple.    See  Triple. 

Tu,  Tiewe,  Tuwe,  Twe,  Thomas,  186, 
242,  243,  372,  496. 

Tuddenham,  Tudenham,  co.  Suffolk, 
fee  in,  497. 

Tudderle.    See  Tytherley. 

Tudenham.    See  Tuddenham. 

Tudenham,  Christiana  %vife  of  Wil- 
liam de,  477. 

,     Katherine     (de     PateshuU) 

wife  of  Robert  de,  434,  435. 

,  Robert  de,  435. 

,  William  de,  citizen  of  Lon- 
don, 263. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  mercer  of  London,  477. 

Tughale,  Robert  de,  83. 
Cf.  Tyghale. 

Tulynton.     See  Tillington. 

Tumby  [in  Ivirkby-on-Bain],  co. 
Lincoln,  manor  of,  322,  323. 

Tut,  William,   289. 

Turberville,  Eleanor  wdfe  of  Richard 

de,  134. 
,  Richard  de,  134. 

Turk,  Thurk,  John,  493. 

,  Peter,  261. 

,  Robert,  of  London,  46. 

Turkdean,  Turkedene,  co.  Glou- 
cester, 460. 


Turnay,  Jacomart  do,  430. 
Turnour,  Tornour,  Tournour,  Henry, 

293. 

,  John,   of  Hampstoad,  184. 

,  Richard,  tailor  of  London, 

188. 
Turvey,  co.  Bedford,  261. 

hall  etc.,  at,  261. 

,   manor  of,  261. 

,  places  named  in,  262. 

Tusmore,    Tussemere,    co.    Oxford, 

advowson  of,  435. 
Tutbury,      Tuttebury      castle      [co. 

Stafford],  constable  of,  179. 

,  prison  in,  179. 

Tuwe.   SeeTu. 

Tuxford,  CO.  Nottingham,  444. 

Twe.    See  Tu. 

Twinstead,    Twynstede,    co.    Essex, 

43. 
Twizle,  Twysell  [parish  of  Morpeth], 

CO.  Northumberland,   147. 
Twyford,  Edward  de,  knight,  464. 
,    Nicholas    de,    of    London, 

goldsmith,  172,  263,  269. 

, ,  the  elder,  182. 

,    .  .  .  . ,   the   younger,    citizen 

of  London,  182. 
,    Robert   de,    knight    of    the 

shire  of  Derby,  480. 
Twynstede.     *See  Twinstead. 
Twysell.    See  Twizle. 
Twytham,  Alan  de,  135. 
,  ....  son  of  Theobald  de,  135. 

199,  200. 
Ty.    *5ee  Tye. 
Tybetot.    See  Tibetot. 
Tychemersh.     See  Titchmarsh. 
Tycheseye.     See  Titsey. 
Tydenham  by  Sawbridgeworth.      See 

Tednambury. 
Tydynglombe,  William  de,  poulterer, 

of  London,  24. 
Tye,    Ty,    John    de,    escheator    in 

Kent,  10,  11,  26,  33,  98,  127, 

135,   142,   148,   189,  214,  231, 

247,  317,  320,  336,  348,  351, 

358,  415,  436,  438,  446. 
,     .  .  .  . ,     ....    in     Middlesex, 

35,    139,    142,    149,   247,    340, 

395,  422,  438. 
,....,....   in  Surrey,  19,  1 14, 

234,  247,  325,  436,  438. 
,   .  .  .  . ,   ....  in   Sussex,  5,  33, 

105,   106,  225,  243,  247,  351, 

427,  428,  438. 

,  Thomas,  279. 

Tyghale,  Rigald,  318. 

.'. Cf.  Tughale. 

Tykhull.    See  Tickhill. 


656 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Tylere,  Thomas,  of  Farnham,  503. 
Tylneye.    See  Tilneye. 
Tymberlake,     Richard,     parson     of 

Beaconsfield,  433. 
Tymeworth.    See  Timworth. 
Tyne,  river,  weirs  etc.  in,  429. 
Tynemouth,   Tynmouth  priory   [co. 

Northumberland],   cell  of  St. 

Albans    abbey,    prior   of,    52, 

421,  422. 
Tyngewyk,  Henry  de,  chaplain,  9. 

,  Thomas,  213. 

Tyngrie.    See  Tingrith. 
Tynmouth.     See  Tynemouth. 
Typet,  John,  398. 
Tyrell,   Tirell,   Tyrel,   Alice  wife  of 

Thomas,  44,  45. 

,  Hugh,  37,  38,  148. 

,    son  of  Hugh,   37,   38, 

77,  107,  148,  253. 

,  Joan  wife  of  John,  19. 

,  John,   19. 

,    son  of  Hugh,   37,   38, 

148,  149,  253. 

,  Thomas,  knight,  44,  45,  50, 

163,   164,  293,  388. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Essex,  44. 

,    .  .  .  . ,   Jinight  of  the  shire  of 

Essex,  169. 
Tyrwhit.     ^ee  Tirwhit. 
Tyryngton.    See  Tiryngton. 
Tysoe,     Church,     Chirchetyso     [co. 

Warwick],  68. 
Over,     Overtyso    [co.    War- 
wick], 68. 
Tytenangre.     See  Tittenhanger. 
Tythby,  Titheby,  Tytheby,  co.  Not- 
tingham,   314. 
Tytherley,   Tudderle,   co.   Wilts   [by 

West  Tytherley,   co.   Hants], 

manor  of,  357. 


u 


Ude,  Michael,  290. 

Uffculme,  Ufcolmp  [co.  Devon],  69. 

Ufford,  Edmund  brother  of  Robert 

de,   184. 
,  Robert  de,  earl  of  Suffolk, 

26,  123,  184,  445,  446. 
Ughtred,  Thomas,  justice,  57. 

,  ....  de,  the  elder,  114. 

ullage,  9. 


Ullid,  Illyd,  CO.  Kilkenny,  manor  of, 

424. 
TJlneswyk.    See  Owlswick. 
ITlram,  William  de,  400. 
Ulreston.    See  Ulverston. 
Ulting,   Ultynge,   co.   Essex,   Stock- 
hall,  Stokhall  in,  388. 
Ultynge,    Ultyngge,    Alice    wife    of 

John  de,  294. 

,  Nicholas  de,   388. 

Ulverston,  Ulreston,  co.  Lancaster, 

manor  of,  59. 
Ulveston,  WUliamson  of  John  de,  155. 
Umframville,  Umfraunville,  Eleanor 

wife    of    Robert    de,    knight, 

439. 
,   Gilbert  de,  earl  of  Angos, 

429,  473. 
,    .  .  .  . ,    .  .  .  . ,  justice  of  oyer 

and     terminer     in     Lincoln- 
shire, 290. 
,   Gilbert  son  of  Robert  de, 

earl  of  Angos,  439. 

,  Robert  de,  knight,  439. 

unemployment,  319. 
Unthank  [in  Skelton],  co.   Cumber- 
land, 338. 
Upleatham,      Lythum,      Uplithum, 

Upplithumflett   in   manor   of 

Marsk,  co  York.  284,  286. 

,  Drengland  in,  286. 

,    parson    of.      See    Thweng, 

Thomas  de. 
UpHthum,  Roger  de,  282. 
Upmelecombe.  See    Melcombe 

Horsey. 
Upminster,   Upmenste,   Upmynstre, 

CO.  Essex,  358,  363. 
,    parson    of.        See    Stanes, 

Thomas  de. 
Uppeham,  Roger  de,  318. 
Upplithmnflet.    See  Upleatham. 
Uppyngham,  John  de,  king's  clerk, 

auditor  of  the  exchequer,  231. 
Upsomborne.    See  Sombourne. 
Upston,  Richard  de,  469. 
Upton  [in  Dinton],  co.  Buckingham, 

230. 
,    Upton    by    Haseloure    [in 

Haselor,  co.  Warwick],  72. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  deed  dated  at,  72. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  Rolveswode  in,  72. 

,      Upton      Snodesbury,      co. 

Worcester,  215. 
,  rector  of.    See  Yevele, 

Thomas  de. 
St.  Leonards,  co.  Gloucester, 

manor  of,  437. 
Warren,    Fitz    Waryn,    co. 

Worcester,  manor  of,  324, 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


657 


Upton,   Godelof  wife   of  Robert,   of 

Aylosford,  160. 

John  do,  495. 

,  Robert,  Robert  de,  159,  160. 

Upwymbourne.     See  Wiinborno  St. 

Giles. 
Urban  VI,  pope  of  Ronne,  256. 
Urdele,  Richard,  369. 
Uriel.     See  Louth. 
Urmston,  Hnrmeston  [in  Flixton,  co. 

Lancaster],  474. 
Urse.    See  Fitz  LTrse. 
Usflet,  Gerard  de,  192. 
,     Illardus     de,     the     king's 

justice,  81. 
Usk  [co.  Monmouth],  lord  of.     See 

Lionel  duke  of  Clarence. 
Ussher,  John,  296. 
Usterfeld,   Bernard,   merchant,    363. 
Utlagh,  Roger,  prior  of  the  hospital 

of  St.   John  of  Jerusalem  in 

Ireland,  327,  328. 
Uvedale,  Thomas  de,  knight,  83. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Surrey,  168. 

C/.  Douuedale. 

Uxbridge,  Wixbrugge  [co.  Middlesex], 

81. 


Vache,  Richard  la,  constable,  keeper 
of  the  Tower  of  London,  41, 
48,  100,  128,  159,  209. 

, ,  knight,  86. 

,  Thomas  de  la,  lieutenant  of 

Richard  de  la,  keeper  of  the 
Tower  of  London,  152,  156. 

Vaghan.     See  Vaughan. 

Vale,  Henry  son  of  William  de  la, 
221. 

,    Robert    de    la,    tenant    in 

chief,  221. 

,  William  de  la,  292,  349. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  chamberlain  of  Ber- 
wick-upon-Tweed, 52. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    of   Northvunberland, 

274. 

Valence,  Stephen  de,  knight,  65,  66, 
198. 

Valkenburg,  Fauquemont  [Holland, 
Limbvu-g],  count  of.  See 
William  duke  of  Juliers. 


Vall6  Clos,  Vallia  [Guernsey],  priory 

of   St.    Michel,    prior   of,    34, 

105. 
Vallibus,   Jolm  do,  justice  in  eyre, 

39. 

Cf.  Vans,  Vaux. 

Valoyns,      Voloyns,      Stephen      de, 

knight,    52,  178,  289. 
Van.    See  Vanne. 
Vanes,  Domyngo,  merchant  of  Conk, 

103. 
Vanne,    Fannes    by   Why,    Van    [in 

Crundale],   co.    Kent,   fee  in, 

494. 

,  manor  of,  230,  415. 

Vanne,  Peter,  citizen  of  London,  92. 
Vastern,        Fasterne       [parish       of 

Wootton  Bassett],  co.  Wilts, 

identity  of  manor  of,  242. 
Vaughan,    Vaghan,   Hamon  son    of 

Thomas,  234. 

Thomas,  234. 

,  Walter,  19. 

Vauls.   See  Vaux. 

Vaus,  Alice  wife  of  Robert  de,  77. 

,  Robert  de,  77. 

, le,  497. 

Cf.  Vallibus,  Vaux. 

Vautort,  John,  merchant  of  London, 

361,  362. 
Vaux,  Vauls,  William,  185 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Maidstone,  49. 

Cf.  Vallibus,  Vaus. 

Vavasoiir,  Wavasour,  John,  476. 

,  Mauger,  366,  464. 

Veel,  Peter  de,  knight,  475. 
Veer,  Aubrey  de,  242,  243. 

, ,  knight,  491. 

,  John  de,  274. 

, ,  earl  of  Oxford,  243. 

,  Maud  wife  of  John  de,  242. 

,  ....  wife  of  John  de,  earl 

of  Oxford,  243. 
,  Thomas  de,  earl  of  Oxford, 

243. 
,    .  .  .  . ,    .  .  .  . ,  chamberlain  of 

England,    396. 
Venour,  Mabel  wife  of  William  le, 

165,  402. 

,  William,  459,  461,  488. 

,  William  le,  citizen,  merchant 

of    London,     152,     164,     165, 

399,  402,   491. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  parson  of  Exton,  209. 

Cf.  VjTiour. 

Verdon,  Verdoun,  John  de,  guardian 

of   the   peace   and   justice   of 

oyer     and     terminer     in     co. 

Northampton,  267. 
, knight,  497. 

E  43 


658 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Verdon — cont. 

,  Theobald  de,  359. 

,  Thomas  de,  fee  of,  495. 

vermin,  411,  426. 

Vernon,  Robert  de,  of  Abbot's 
Ripton,  361. 

,   ....  son  of  Robert  de,  361. 

Vernoun,  Richard  le,  knight,  394. 

vetch,  455. 

Veyages,  John  de,  103. 

Viel,  John,  coroner  for  Essex,  156. 

Vieleston.    See  Filston. 

Vieleston,  John  de,  408,  458. 

Vierzon,  Virson  [France,  dep.  Cher], 

276. 
Vincent,  John,  of  Standlake,  474. 
vintners,     protection    of    craft    of, 

75,  76. 
Virson.    See  Vierzon. 
Viscagia.    See  Biscay. 
Voloyns.    See  Valoyns. 
Vremysse,   Vrenysse,   William,    324, 

382. 
Vygerous,  Richard,  burgess  of  Bed- 
ford, 169. 
Vyne,  Peter  atte,  490. 
Vyneter.     See  Vynter. 
Vynour,  Robert  le,  398. 

Cf.  Venour. 

Vynter,  Vyneter,  Vyntier,  Luke, 
knight  of  the  shire  of  Hert- 
ford, 273. 

,  Robert,  46. 

, ,  of  Kent,  68. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  of  Maidstone,  68,  84, 

173,  175,  261,  365,  461. 


Wace,  Gilbert,  knight,  166,  173. 

Wacton,  Waketon  [co.  Norfolk], 
378. 

Waddesworth,  Wadesworth,  John 
de,  71,  83,  87,  400. 

Wade,  John,  405. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    canon    of    St.    Paul, 

London,    187,    406. 

,   Margaret   wife   of   William, 

22. 

,  William,  22. 

Wadenhoe,  Wadenho,  co.  North- 
ampton,  375. 

Wadesworth.    See  Waddesworth, 


Wadham,  John,  400. 

Wael,  Wale  by  Calais  [France,  dep. 

Pas-de-Calais],  ship  of,  363. 
Wahull,  Whaull  in  Chadlington,  co. 

Oxford,  manor  of,  230. 
Wainfleet,   Waynflete   [co.   Lincoln], 

bailiffs,  customers  etc.  of,  137. 
Waithe,    Wathe,    co.    Lincoln,    436, 

437. 
Wakbrigge,   William   de,   of   Derby- 
shire, 274. 
Wake,  Alice   (de  PateshuU)  wife  of 

Thomas,  435. 
,  Hugh  de,  keeper  of  Moulton 

park,  348. 

,  John,  241,  242. 

, ,  of  Clifton,  393,  476. 

,  Thomas,  of  Blisworth,  435. 

Wakefield,   Wakefeld,   Wakfeld,   co. 

York,  83,  85,  86,  383. 

,  deed  dated  at,  83. 

,    Kirkgate,    street    called    le 

Kergate  in,  87. 
,  Northgate  street,  le  North- 
gate  in,  83. 
Wakeman,  William,  487. 
Wakerfeld,    Thomas    de,    parson    of 

Horsley,   268. 
Waketon.    See  Wacton. 
Wakfeld.    See  Wakefield. 
Walden.    See  Saffron  Walden. 
Waldene,  Walden,  Geoffrey,  460. 

,  John,  195,  372. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  rector  of  Llangadock, 

460. 
,  Thomas  son  of  Andrew  de, 

324,  405,  406. 
Walde  Neuton.   See  Newton,  Wold. 
Walde     Neuton,     Agnes     sister     of 

Richard  son  of  WilUam  de, 

428. 
,  Alice  sister  of  Richard  son 

of  William  de,  428. 
,  Richard  son  of  William  de, 

428. 
Waldeyeve,  William,  161. 
Waldingfield,  Great,  Great  Waldyng- 

feld  [co.   Suffolk],  manor  of, 

186. 
,    Little,    Little   Waldyngfeld 

[co.  Suffolk],  manor  of,  186. 
Waldon,     Humphrey     de,      knight, 

388. 
Waldyngfeld.     See  Waldingfield. 
Wale  by  Calais.    See  Wael. 
Wale,  Jolui,  391. 
Wales,  368. 

,  justices  in,  404,  447. 

,  law  and  custom  of,  447. 

,.....,  march  of,  472, 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


659 


Wales,  marcli  of — cont. 

, .  .  .  .  ,osclioators  in.  See  Benet, 

John;  Lutteleye,  I'hili])  do. 
,     .  .  .  . ,     service    of     liokling 

cord    when    the    king    builds 

castle  in,  1. 

,  men  of,  408. 

,  North,  justices  of,  371. 

,      precautions      against      in- 
vasion of,  .371,  372. 

,  prince  of.    See  Edward. 

,  sale  of  wine  in,  310. 

,  South,  justices  of,  371. 

Walesby,  co.  Notts,  32. 
Walesgrave.     See  Falsgrave. 
Waleshale.    See  Walsall. 
Waleys,    Joan    (de    Karlel)    wife   of 

John,  338,  339,  363. 

,  John,  338,  339,  363,  456. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  coroner  for  Essex,  29. 

, ,  knight,  196,  289. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Sussex,   480. 

Cf.  Walshe. 

Walingford.     See  Wallingford. 
Walker,  Alice  le,  162. 

,  Henry  le,  162. 

John,  45. 

le,  162. 

,  Richard  le,  162. 

Walkinstead,  Wolkenstede,  co.  Sur- 
rey, 188. 
Walle worth.    See  Walworth. 
Wallingford,    Walingford,    Walyng- 

ford  [CO.  Berks],  195,  496. 
,    churchyard   and   parish    of 

St.  Mary  the  less,  195. 

,  deed  dated  at,  195. 

,  honour  of,  497. 

,  mayor     of.        See    Paiable, 

Nicholas. 

,  streets  etc.  named  in,  195. 

Walmesford,  Thomas  de,  clerk,  295. 
Walpole,  William,  of  Burnham,  222. 
Walrand,  John,  162. 

,  William,  69. 

Walsall,  Waleshale,  co.  Stafford,  32. 
Walshale,  William  de,  knight  of  the 

shire  of  Stafford,  168. 
Walsham,  William  son  of  Alexander 

de,  106. 
Walshe,  Walssh,  Elizabeth  (Salmon) 

sister  of  Nicholas  le,  248. 

,  Henry  le,  of  Aighton,  296. 

,  Hxigh,  84. 

,  John,   390. 

,  Walter,  193. 

,  William,   the  king's  gauger 

in  London,  364. 
Cf.  Waleys. 


Walsingham,     Walsyngham,     Great 

[CO.  Norfolk),  408. 
Walsoken,    Walsokne,    co.    Norfolk, 

267. 
Walsopthorno       [in        Ashperton]  ? 

Walvesthorp,     co.     Hereford, 

248. 
Walssh.     See  Walshe. 
Walsynghain.     See  Walsingliam. 
Walsyngham,  Adam  do,  73. 
Walter,  Wautor.    See  Fitz  Walter. 
Waltham,   Waltham   by   Grymesby, 

CO.  Lincoln,  394,  436,  437. 

,  manor  of,  436. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  court  of,  436. 

,     Bishops.  See     Bishops 

Waltham. 

Holy  Cross  [co.  Essex],  48. 

,  abbot  of,  142. 

,  farm  of,  142. 

,   White,   CO.   Berks,   Woolley 

in,  133. 
Waltham  forest,  co.  Essex,    election 

of  verderers  in,  229,  247,  428. 
Waltham,  John  de,  clerk,  486. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  sacrist  of  the  chapel  of 

St.   Marv  and  the   Angels  in 

St.  Peter's,  York,  201. 

,  Roger  de,  501. 

Walthamstow,     Welcomstowe,      co. 

Essex,  272,  373. 
Walton,   Walton  by  Hamelcote   [in 

Knaptoft],  CO.  Leicester,  427. 

,  CO.  York,  438. 

in  Sandal  Magna,  co.  York, 

383. 

,  deed  dated  at,  383. 

-on-the-Hill,     Wauton,    co. 

Surrey,  manor  of,  97,  98. 
-on-the-Naze,      Walton      [co. 

Essex],  85. 
,  West,  [co.  Norfolk],  parson 

of.  See  Folkyngham,  John  de. 
Walton,    Henry    de,    keeper    of    the 

wardi'obe,  236. 
,     Richard      de,    parson      of 

Wethersfield,    388. 
,    William   de,    85,     87,     161, 

407. 
Walvesthorp.     See  Walsopthorno  ? 
Walworth,    Walleworth    [parish    of 

Heighrngton,     co.     Durham], 

manor  of,  268. 
Walworth,  William,  493. 
Walwyche.    See  Woolwich. 
Walyngford.     See  Wallingford. 
Walyngford,  Walter,  Walter  de,  502, 

503. 
Wambury,     co.     Devon,     Langdon, 

Longedon  in,  27. 


660 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Wamford,  Nicholas,  knight  of  the 
shire  of  Cornwall,  273. 

Wandeles worth.     See  Wandsworth. 

Wandesford,  Richard  de,  merchant 
of  London,  476. 

Cf.  Wandysford. 

Wandestre.     See  Wanstrow. 

Wandsworth,  Wandeles  worth,  co. 
Siirrey,   383. 

Wandysford,  William  de,  of  York, 
413. 

Cf.  Wandesford. 

Wanetench,  John  de,  206. 

Cf.  Wantyng. 

Wanstead,  Wanstede,  co.  Essex, 
advowson  of,  433. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  John  parson  of,  433. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  433. 

,  Wanstede     [in     Southwick, 

CO.  Hants],  406. 

Wanstrow,  Wandestre  [co.  Somer- 
set], church  of,  47. 

Wantage,  Wantyng  [co.  Berks], 
deed  dated  at,  369. 

Wantyng,  John,  471. 

Cf.  Wanetench. 

Wappenham,  John  de,  btirgess  of 
Dimstable,   302. 

Warbleton,  John  de,  406,  486. 

wardage,  233. 

Wardayn,  John,  of  Aveley,  358. 

Warde,  Hugh  le,  367. 

,  Jol-m,  205,  488,  500. 

, ,  of  Chxby,  88. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  parson  of  Drv  Drayton, 

24. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  servant  of  Thomas  de 

la  Bere,  392. 

,    Richard    son    of    John,    of 

Radwinter,  377. 

,  Simon,  42. 

,  Stephen,  of  Liverpool,  226, 

227. 

,  Thomas,  478. 

,  WiUiam,  88,   171. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  coroner  for  Berks,  362. 

,  Serjeant  of  cos.  Meath, 

Dublin  and  Louth,  391. 

Wardeden,  John,  163. 

Wardedieu,  John,  of  Sjn;vell.  85. 

Warden,  Wardon  abbey  [co.  Bed- 
ford], abbot  and  convent  of, 
373. 

Wardrobe,  the,  10,  240. 

,  accounts  at,  231. 

,    clerk    of.        See    Glendale, 

William. 

,     keeper     of.         See    Farle, 

William    de  ;     Manton,    Wil- 
liam de  ;    Walton,  Henry  de. 


Wardrobe,  keeper  of — cont. 

,    . .  .  . ,  in  Tower  of  London 

See  Sleford,  John  de. 

,    treasurer    of.       See    Farle, 

William. 

,    yeoman    of.       See   Notton, 

John  de. 

Ware  [co.  Hertford],  48. 

Ware.    See  Warre. 

Warefeld.    See  Warfield. 

Wareham  [co.  Dorset],  bailiffs, 
customers  etc.  of,   137. 

Warenna,  Joan  wife  of  John  de, 
earl  of  Surrey,  113. 

,    John    de,    earl    of    Surrey, 

112,  113,  420. 

Warenner,   Simon,   469. 

Cf.  Warner. 

Warenton,  Warneham  [in  Bam- 
burgh],  CO.  Northumberland, 
426. 

Wareyn.     See  Waryn. 

Warfield,  Warefeld  [co.  Berks],  par- 
son of.  See  Neweport,  Alex- 
ander de. 

Warghton,  William  de,  166. 

Wargrave,  Wergrave,  co.  Berks, 
chancery  at,  487. 

Wark,  Werk  upon  Twede  [in 
Carham,  co.  Northumber- 
land], castle  and  barony  of, 
182,   183. 

Warkworth,  Werkeworth,  co.  North- 
umberland, manor  of,  140, 438. 

,  Acklington  in,  140. 

,  Barling,  Berlyng  in.  140. 

Warmeston,  Katherine  (de  Loueden) 
daughter  of  John  de,  of 
Grendon,    319. 

Warminster,  Wermenstre,  co.  Wilts, 
manor  of,   11. 

Warmwell,  John  de,  375. 

Warneham.    See  Warenton. 

Warner,  Edmund,  386. 

,  John,  clerk,  484,  485. 

,  Thomas,  406,  487. 

,  William,  of  Gimingham,  392. 

Cf.  Warenner. 

Wamford  [co.  Hants],  parson  of. 
See  Aspale,  Robert  de. 

Wamham,  Walter,  280. 

Warre,  Ware,  Elizabeth  wife  of 
John  la,  472. 

,  Hamon  de,  69,  406. 

,  Hugh  de,  173. 

,   John,   parson   of  Wonston, 

484,  485. 

,  ....  atte,  66. 

,  ....    do  la,  lord  of    Ewiaa 

Harold,  371. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


661 


Warr(%  John — cont. 

,  ....  son  of  Roger  la,  472. 

Nicholas  do,  208. 

Roger,  verderer  of  Braden 

forest,  10. 

,  Roger  la,  de  la,  22. 

, ,  knight,  323. 

lord  of  Ewias  Harold, 

472. 
,    lord    of    Folkington, 

472. 
,    lord   of   Manchester, 

473. 
Warrewyk.    See  Warwick. 
Warrington  [co.  Lancaster],  Burton- 
wood,  Burtonheved  in,  68. 
Warthole,  Warthull  [in  Plumbland], 

CO.  Cumberland,  403. 
Warthynyon.     See  Gwrtheyrnion. 
Wartling,  Wertelyngge,  co.   Sussex, 

183. 
Warton,    co.    Lancaster,    manor   of, 

59. 
,    Lindeth,    Lyndheved,  and 

Mourholm  in,   59. 
Warwick,  Warwyk,  473. 
,  burgesses  of,  summoned  to 

parliament,    274. 
Warwick,   Warrewyk,  earl  of.      See 

Bello  Campo,  Thomas  de. 
Warwick,     Warrewyk,     county     of, 

172,  184,  198. 
,  escheator  in.     See  Bernard, 

John  ;     More,   William   atte  : 

Wyndesore,  John  de. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  168, 

273,  480. 
,  sheriff  of,   7,    16,    89,     129, 

156,  228,  362,  374. 

,  subsidy  in,  71,  89,  203,  281. 

,  trespasses  committed  in,  374. 

Waryn,  Wareyn,  Adam,  463. 
,    Elizabeth        (de        Sancto 

Omero)  wife  of  Thomas,  210. 

John,  174,  200,  391. 

,  ....  son  of  William,  18,  19. 

,  Robert,  411,  412. 

,  Thomas,  205,  313,  410,  489. 

,   .  .  .  .,  of  Somerset,  195,  365. 

,  WUliam,  18,  19,  498. 

.  .  .  . ,  merchant  of  London, 

467. 

See  Fitz  Waryn. 

Wastel,  Michael,  167. 

Wateer,  John  son  of  John,  of  Acton, 

489. 
Waterden,  Richard  de,  474. 
Waterfall,  Amice  wife  of  John  de, 

311. 
John  de,  311. 


Watorford  [co.  Watorford],  citizens 

and  mtu'chants  of,  8. 

,  mayor  and  baililfs  of,  453. 

,  port  of,  453. 

,  ship  of,  322. 

Waterperry,    co.    Oxford,   Thonley, 

Thomell  in,  230. 
Watosford,  Henry  do,  486. 
Watevillo,  Uame  de,  237,  345. 
Watford,  co.  Hertford,  263,  264. 
,  Cassio  and  Wiggenhall, 

Oxeye  Walrond,  in,  298. 
,....,  road  to  Berkhampstead 

from,  49. 

,  CO.  Northampton,  336. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  336. 

Watford,  John  de,  10. 

,  Roger,  490. 

Wath    [parish    of    Hovingham,    co. 

York],  manor  of,  43. 
Wathe.    See  Waithe. 
Wathenden,   Thomas   son   of   Alice, 

445. 
Watlesfeld.    See  Wattisfield. 
Watson,  James,  194. 

,  John,  286. 

Wattes,  Thomas,  265. 

Wattisfield,  Watlesfeld  [co.  Suffolk], 

279. 
Watton  [co.  York],  nun  of,  157. 
Wauncy,  Walter  de,  165. 
Waundel,  John,   of  Daventry,    127, 

128. 
Wauter.    See  Fitz  Walter. 
Wauterservant,  Thomas,  282. 
Wauton.     See  Walton-on-the-Hill. 
Wauton,  Andrew  de,  343. 

,  Gilbert  de,  212. 

,  Janyn  de,  496. 

,  John  de,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Huntingdon,   169. 

,  William  de,  knight,  174,  197. 

Wavasour.    See  Vavasour. 

Wavere,     Robert    de,     coroner    for 

Warwick,  362. 
Waxman,  Thomas,  312,  474. 
Waynflete.  -  See  Wainfleet. 
Wayte,  Alexander,  clerk,  454. 

,  Richard,  312. 

William,  249,  398. 

Weaverthorpe,      Wynter  thorp,      co. 

York,  manor  of,  355. 
Webbe,     Joan     wife     of     William, 
191. 

,  Roger,  365. 

,  Walter,  391. 

,  William,  191,  392. 

Webster,    William,    of    Patrington, 

390. 
Wederhale.    See  Wetheral. 


662 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Wednesbury,        Wodnesbury,        co. 

Stafford,  32. 
Week    St.    Mary,    Seynt    Mariewyk, 

CO.  Cornwall,  manor  of,  501. 
,    Swannacott,    Swaycote    in, 

501. 
Weeting,    Wetynge,    Wetyngge    [co. 

Norfolk],  222,  224,  264,   317. 
weirs,  429,  489. 
Welbeck,  Welbek  [co.  Nottingham], 

abbot  and  convent  of,  486. 
Welbourn,  Welborne,  Welburne.  co. 

Lincoln,   176,  272,  402,     464, 

478. 
Welbourne.    See  Welburn. 
Welburn,  Welbourne,  co.  York,  345. 
Welburne.    See  Welbourn. 
Welby,  CO.  Lincoln,  310. 
Welcombe,     arch    priest     of.        See 

Hert,  John. 
Welcomstowe.    See  Walthamstow. 
Welde.    See  Well,  Wold. 
Welde,  Walter  de,  441. 
William,    verderer    in    Sel- 

wood  forest,  429. 
,   ....   de,  merchant  of  Lon- 
don, 420. 
Weldon,  co.  Northampton,  manor  of, 

278. 
Welford,  co.  Berks,  Weston  in,  92. 
,    Welneford,    co.  Gloucester, 

161. 
Well,  Welde  [in  Ickham],   co.   Kent, 

230. 
,  Welle,  CO.   York,   manor  of, 

361. 
Welle,   Geoffrey  atte,   of  Wingham, 

460. 

Richard  atte,  52. 

,  Thomas  son  of    Simon   de, 

267. 
Welles.    See  Wells. 
Welling,   Wellynges  [in  Bexley  and 

East    Wickham,    co.     Kent], 

383. 
Wellow,  Wolhagh,  co.  Notts,  32. 

,  Grimston  in,  32. 

Wells,   Welles   [co.    Somerset],    365, 

366. 
,   bishop   of.      See   Bath   and 

Wells. 
,     priory    of     St.     John    the 

Baptist,  prior  of,  366. 

,  Everardclos  in,  366. 

Wellynges.    See  Welling. 

Welneford.    See  Welford. 

Welton,  Richard  de,  rector  of  Little 

Billing,   398. 

Cf.  Whelton. 

Welwyk,  Ralph  de,  274. 


Wem,  Wemme  [co.  Salop],  baron  of. 

See  Boteler,  William  le. 
Wemham.     See  Wenhom. 
Wemme.     See  Wem. 
Wencelaghe,  Peter  de,  212. 
Wenden,  Wendon,  Great,  co.  Essex, 

manor  of,  437. 
Wendirton,  Robert  de,  373. 
Wendlyngburgh,  Peter  de  {alias  atte 

Crook),   148. 
Wendon.    See  Wenden. 
Wendout,  John,  243. 

,  Robert,  243. 

Wendovere,  John  de,  212,  490. 
Wenge.     See  Wing. 
Wengham.    See  Wingham. 
Wengrave.    See  Wingrave. 
Wengrave,  William  de,  207. 
Wenham,   Great,  Brende  Wemham, 

CO.  Suffolk,  fee  in,  497. 
Wenlock  [co.  Salop],  prior  and  con- 
vent of,  482. 
Wenlok,  William,  William  de,  125. 

, ,  clerk,  41,  100. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  clerk  in  the  exchequer 

of  the  earldom  of  Albemarle, 

114,   115. 
,  clerk  of  the  receipt  of 

the  exchequer,  122. 
Wennington    [co.   Essex]  ?    Wenyn- 

ton,   rector   of.      See   Banne- 

bury,  Richard  de. 
Wensleydale,      Wondslaghdale,     co. 

York,  361. 
Went.     See  Over  Went. 
Wenyngton.     See  Wennington  ? 
Weoleye,  John,  170. 
Werde,  Herman  van  the,  merchant 

of  Lubeck,  442. 
Wergrave.     See  War  grave. 
Werk  upon  Twede.    See  Wark. 
Werkeworth.     See  Warkworth. 
Wermenstre.    See  Warminster. 
Wertelyngge.     See  Wartling. 
Wesenham,  John  de,   128. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  keeper  of  the  tempor- 
alities of  the  bishopric  of  Ely, 

2. 
West,  John,  482. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  of  Lincolnshire,  390. 

,  Thomas,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Wilts,  168. 
Westbaggeburgh.     See  Bagborough, 

West. 
Westbery,  Roger  de,  60. 
Westbourhunt.   See  Boarhunt. 
Westbourne,        Westeboume,       co. 

Middlesex,  385. 
Westbradenham.      See  Bradenham, 

West. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


663 


Westbury,  co.  Wilts,  11. 

,  advowson  of  cliapel  of,  11. 

fair  and  market  at,  456. 

,  hundi'ed  of,  456. 

,  manor  of,  456,  457. 

,  places    named  in,   456,  457, 

458. 
Leigh,     Lygh      [in      West- 
bury],    CO.    Wilts,    456. 
-on-Severn,     Westbury     [co. 

Gloucester],  manor  of,  18,  109. 

,  Lower  Ley  in,  18,  109. 

Westcantokesheve.     See  Quantocks- 

head.  West. 
Westchikerell.    See  Chickerell,  West. 
Westcote.     See  Westlecote. 
Westcote,  Margery  wife  of  Robert, 

73. 

,  Robert,  73. 

,  Thomas,  verderer  of  Wool- 

mer  and  Alice  Holt  forests, 

360. 
Westebourne.    See  Westbourne. 
Westende,  John  atte,  377. 
Westerham,  co.  Kent,  manor  of,  48. 
Westeton,    Thomas,    of    Petersfield, 

294. 
Westewyk.    See  Westwick. 
Westhaddon.    See  Haddon. 
Westhakeborne.     See  Hagbo\rrne. 
Westhamme.    ^See  Ham. 
Westhide,  Westhyde,  co.  Hereford, 

109. 

,  manor  of,  18,  109. 

Westhorlegh,     Westhorslegh.         See 

Horsley,    West. 
Westhyde.     See  Westhide. 
Westland,  John  de,  282. 
Westlecote,  Westcote  [in  Swindon], 

CO.  Wilts,  242. 
Westminster,  81,  99,   107,   122,   152, 

167,  384,  398,  473,  487. 
abbey,    abbot    of,    99,    153, 

386. 
,    .  .  .  . ,   bailiff  of.      See 

Gy,  Robert. 

,....,  prison  of,  99,  153. 

,  cellarer  of,  385. 

,  convent  of,  385,  386. 

,  Nicholas  abbot  of,  48, 

268,  385. 
,   chancery  at,   44,    159,   261, 

297,  308,  366,  459,  487. 
,  chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within 

palace      of,      St.      Stejihen's 

college,   122. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  canon  of.   See  Chester- 

feld,  Richard  de. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  dean  and  college  of, 

467. 


Westminster — cont. 

,  Cliaring,  Chorryng  in,  deed 

dated  at,  471. 
Cross,     highway    to, 

81,  82. 

,  ....  street,  Charryng  Street 

in,  471. 
Common  Bench  at,  186,  198, 

500. 
,   council   at,    129,    151,    263, 

298,  302,  402,  403,  445,  482, 

492. 
,  deeds  acknowledged  at,  387, 

406,  408,  452. 
,    dated  at,   49,   51,   79, 

82,  83,  101,  103,  107,  175,  184, 
186,  188,  193,  196,  203,  204, 
261,  268,  271,  276,  281,  288, 
290,  294,  302,  376,  380,  384, 
385,  394,  398,  401,  409,  474, 
484,   489,  491,  494,  498,   501. 

Hall,  499. 

,  justices  at,  88,  275,  368,  392. 

,  King's  Bench  at,  57. 

,  letters  close   etc.,  dated  at, 

1-112,  114,  125-135,  138-189, 

191-201,     204^281,     288-300, 

305-492,  500. 

,  letters  patent  dated  at,  305. 

palace,  deeds  dated  at,  403, 

465. 
,  letters  close  dated  at, 

156,  250. 
,  parliament  at,  3,  7,  38,  89, 

104,   112,   113,   168,   177,  210, 

237,  272,  344,  467. 

,  receipt  of  exchequer  at,  118. 

,  staple  of,  222. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  mayor  of,  95,  104.   See 

also  Pyel,  John. 
,  Star  Chamber,  Star  council 

chamber  near  the  receipt  at, 

237,  310. 

,  Statute  of,  the  fu-st,  368. 

,   statutes   published  etc.   at, 

243,  309,   310,  365.  411,  470, 

483. 
,  the  king's  mews  by,  keeper 

of.    See  Braban,  John. 
,    the    queen's   exchequer   at, 

175,  263. 
,     trespasses     committed     in 

presence  of  king  and  justices 

at,  338. 
Westmoreland,  county  of,  272. 

,  coroners  in,  71. 

,  escheator  in.     See  Reygate, 

William  do. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  1 69, 

480. 


664 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Westmoreland — cont. 

.sheriff  of,  130,  138,  413,  418. 

,  subsidy  in,  281. 

Westmiine.    See  Meon,  West. 

Weston  [co.  Salop],  Red  Castle  in, 
lord     of.  See     Audeleye, 

James  de. 

[in  Welford],  co.  Berks,  92. 

Beggard,  Weston,  co.  Here- 
ford,  294. 

Colville,  CO.  Cambridge,  41. 

Coney,  co.  Suffolk,  279. 

-on- Avon,  co.  Warwick,  Mil- 
cote,  Melcote  in,  83. 

Underwood,  Underwode.  co. 

Buckingham,  deed  dated  at, 
54. 

,  manor  of,  54. 

See  Westoning. 

Weston,  John,  John  de,  73,  121,  122, 
391. 

„ ,    Lambert    de.    knight,    162, 

400. 

,  Robert  de,  188. 

Westoning,  Weston,  co.  Bedford, 
fee  in,  497. 

Westravendale.  See  Ravendale,West. 

Westurdale,  Nicholas,  387. 

Westwick,  Westewyk  [in  Oakington], 
CO.  Cambridge,  manor  of,  493. 

Westwilliamston.  See  WilUamston, 
West. 

Westwoodside,Westwode  [in  Haxey], 
CO.  Lincoln,  245. 

Westwrattynge,  Westwrottyng.  See 
Wratting,   West. 

Westwycham  by  Croydon.  See 
Wickham,  West. 

Westwyk,  Hugh  de,  clerk,  307. 

Westychenore.    See  Itchenor,  West. 

Wetheral,  Wederhale,  co.  Cumber- 
land, 38. 

Wethergrave,  Nicholas,  364. 

Wethersfield,  Wetherisfeld  [co. 
Essex],  parson  of.  See  Wal- 
ton, Richard  de. 

Wetynge,  Wetyngge.     See  Weeting. 

Wetyngge,  John  de,  73. 

Wevelescombe,  Wyvelescombe,  Maud 
wife  of  John,  144,  221. 

Wexham,  John  de,  459. 

Weye,  John  de,  king's  clerk,  335. 

Weymouth,  Weymuth  [co.  Dorset], 
bailiffs  of,  91. 

,   bailiffs,    customers   etc.   of, 

136. 

Weyvylle,  John,  knight  of  the  shire 
of  Sussex,  273. 

Whalley,  Whallay,  co.  Lancaster, 
abbot  of,  239,  240,  249. 


Whalley — cont. 

,  ....  and  convent  of,  384. 

,  John  abbot  of,  84,  167,  187, 

296. 

Standen  and   Wisewall    in, 

239,  249. 

Whalton,  co.  Northumberland,  Ogle 
in,  147. 

Whaplode,  Quappelade  [co.  Lincoln], 
55. 

wharfage,  69. 

Wharrain  Percy,  Wharrompercy, 
Wharrom  Percy,  co. York,  438. 

,  manor  and  advowson  of,  340. 

Whaull.    See  Wahull. 

Wheatley,  Whetele  [co.  Notting- 
ham],  315. 

Wheler,  William,  131,  132. 

Whelton,  Richard  son  of  Thomas  do, 
86. 

,  Thomas  de,  86. 

Cf.  Welton. 

Whetele.    See  Wheatley. 

Wheteleye,  John,  32. 

Whethvill,  John,  John  de,  462. 

Wliichewode.     See  Wychwood. 

Whippendell  Bottom,  Whippeden  in 
King's  Langley,  co.  Hertford, 
49. 

Whiston,  Whistan,  Whitstan,  co. 
York,  advowson  of,  248. 

,  manor  of,  147. 

Whitawere,  John,  burgess  of  Dun- 
stable, 302. 

Whitbred,  Richard,  chaplain,  366. 

Whitburn,  Whitebernes  [co.  Dur- 
ham], shipwreck  at,  130,  153. 

Wliitby,  Whiteby  [co.  York],  376. 

bailiffs  of,  91,  137. 

,  customers  of,  137. 

Whitchurch,  Whitcherch  [co.  Buck- 
ingham], parson  of.  See 
Bradle,  John  de. 

,  Whitchirche,    co.    Warwick, 

170. 

White,  Whyte,  Hugh,  chaplain,  326. 

,    John,    master    of    la   Seint 

John  of  Sluys,  153. 

,  Richard,  58,  469. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  justice  for  pleas  that 

follow  justiciary  of  Ireland, 
391. 

,  Thomas,  of  Great  Yarmouth, 

402. 

Whitebernes.    See  Whitburn. 

Whiteby.     See  Whitby. 

Whiteby,  Alexander  de,  307. 

Whitecastle,  Whitecastel  [co.  Mon- 
mouth], lord  of.  See  John 
duke  of  Lancaster. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


665 


Whito  Coluo.    See  Colue. 

Wliitofold,      Wliitfold,      John      de, 

knight,   375. 

,   .  .  .  .,  of  Westmoreland,  71. 

White  Horse,  Whithors,  V^ale  of,  co. 

Berks,  496. 
Whitole.    See  Whitley. 
Whiteneye,  Baldwin  de,  clerk,  294. 
White  Notley,  White  Nottele.      See 

Notley. 
White  Waltham.  See  Waltham. 
Wlxitewyk.    See  Whitwick. 
Whitfeld.     See  Whitefeld. 
Whitfield.    See  Fromo  Whitfield. 
Whithors.    See  White  Horse. 
Whithors,  Why thors,  Isabel  wife  of 

Walter,  401. 

,  Walter,  279,  280,  401. 

,  Watkin  son  of  Walter,  clerk, 

300. 

,  Wilhara,  482. 

Whitley,     Whitele     [parish     of     St. 

Giles,    Reading],    co.    Berks, 

Holmesmede  in,    107. 

[in  Ecclesfield],  co.  York,  147. 

Whitloc,  Jolin,  of  Tittenhanger,  398. 
Whitstan.    See  Whiston. 
Whittington,Whitynton  [co. Salop],  5. 
,    lord    of.         See    Audeleye, 

James  de. 
Whitwick,  Whitewyk  [co.  Leicester], 

manor  of,  deed  dated  at,  237. 
Whitynton.     See  Whittington. 
Whixoe,  Wliuxho  [co.  Suffolk],  268. 
Why.    See  Wye. 
Whyssh,  Henry,  466. 

,  ....  son  of  Henry,  369. 

Whyte.    See  White. 
Whyteby.    See  Whitby. 
Whythors.    See  Whithors. 
Wichyngham.    See  Wychyngham. 
Wick,    Wyke    [by    Leclilade  ?],    co. 

Gloucester,  230. 
Wicken,    Wykhamond,    co.    North- 
ampton,  manor   and   advow- 

son  of,  101,  241. 
Bonhunt,     Bonehunt,     co. 

Essex,  fees  in,  495. 
Wickenby,   Wykenby  [co.   Lincoln]. 

280. 
Wickham    Bishops,     Wykliam,     co. 

Essex,  197,  388. 
,  parson  of.  See  Bourton, 

Robert  de. 
,      West,      Westwycham     by 

Croydon,    co.    Kent,    fees   in, 

495. 
Wickwar,     Wykewarre,     co.     Glou- 
cester, advowson  of,  472. 
manor  of,  472. 


Widecombo,  Walter  de,  489. 
Widryngton,    Wyderyiigton,    Roger 

do,  252,  473. 

Cf.  Wodoryngton. 

Widevylle.    See  Wydeville. 
Widowson,  John,  of  Upleatham,  286. 
Wigborough,  Wygebergh,  co.  Essex, 

deed  dated  at,  82. 

,  manor  of,  82,  185. 

Wiggenhall  alias  Oxeye  Walrond  [in 

Watford],  co.  Hertford,  298. 
Wiggington,  Wygenton,  co.  Oxford, 

3. 
Wighill,  Wvhale,  co.  York,  manor  of, 

501." 

,  Esedike,  Esdyk  in,  501. 

Wight,  Isle  of,  shipwreck  off,  430. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  steward  of,  442. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    ....    and  bailiffs  of, 

404. 
Wightman,  William,  69. 
Wightreshamme.     See  Wittersham. 
Wigmore,    Wygemore,    Wyggemore, 

CO.  Hereford,  28. 

,  abbot  of,  276. 

,  church  of  St.  James,  276. 

,  keeper  of  lordship  of,  371. 

Wilbraham,   Great,   Great   Wilburg- 

ham,  CO.  Cambridge,  221. 
Wilcote,  Wyvelcote  [in  Cogges],  co. 

Oxford,  manor  of,  353. 
Wilhale,    Wylhull,    co.   Oxford,  fees 

in,  496,  497. 
Wilkokes,  Thomas,  312. 
will,  terms  of,  set  out,  78,  79. 
Wille,  Edmund,  clerk,  187. 
Willedon,  co.  Essex,  fees  in,  495. 
WiUesden,  Willesdon,  co.  Middlesex, 

190. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  190. 

,  windmill  in,  1 90. 

,  Neasden  in,  1 90. 

Willesford,     Willisford,     Wylesford, 

Wylford,  Richard  de,  55. 
, ,  of  Welbourn,  176,  272, 

402,  464,  478. 

,  Thomas  de,  fisher,  57. 

William   duke   of   Juliers,    count    of 

Valkenburg  and  lord  of  Mont- 

joie,  276. 
William,  Elizabeth  wife  of  John,  189 , 

336,  337. 
,  Geoffrey  son  of,  do  Swynith  - 

wait,  212. 
,  John,  citizen  and  spicer  of 

London,   189,   336,   337. 

Richard  son  of,  287. 

, ,  de  Walde  Neuton,  428 . 

,  Robert  son  of,  de  Haldenby , 

366. 


666 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


William — cont. 

,  Thomas  son  of,  de  Hagh,  63. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  de  Lodelowe,  384. 

Williamesson,  John,  of   Middelburg, 

442. 
Williamthorp,     William    Thorp     [in 

North  Wingfield  and  Heath], 

CO.  Derby,  314. 
Williamston,  West,  West  will  iamston 

[in    Begelly],    co.    Pembroke, 

346. 
Willingale    Doe,    Wylinghale    Rokel 

[co.  Essex],  170. 
Spain,  Wylinghale,  Wylyng- 

hale  Spayne  [co.  Essex],  170. 

deed  dated  at,  386. 

,  manor  of  Spayneshalle 

in,  386. 
Williot,  Thomas,  163. 
Willisford.    See  Willesford. 
Wilmington,  Wylmynton  [co.  Kent], 

185,  288. 
Wilmynton,  William  de,  288. 

,  ....  son  of  William  de,  288. 

Wilshamstede,   William,    burgess   of 

Dunstable,   302. 
Wilteshire,   Wyltesshire,   John,   461. 

,  Thomas  de,  of  London,  249. 

Wilton,    Wilton      in       Pikerynglith 

[in  Ellerburn],  co.  York,  manor 

of,  328,  425. 
Wnton,  Wylton,  John  de,  justice,  57. 

,  Peter  de,  484,  485. 

,    Thomas   de,    of    Yorkshire, 

193. 
Wilts,  Wyltes,  county  of,  171,   174, 

176,  187,  270,  293,  377,  385, 

389,  408,  477,  482. 
,  escheator  in.     See  Estbuiy, 

John  de  ;   Evesham,  John  de. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  168, 

273,  480. 
,  sheriff  of,  10,  56,  346,  415, 

457,     468,     469.         See    also 

Haywode,  Walter. 

,  subsidy  in,  204,  484. 

Wimborne      Minster,       Wymburne, 

Wynburne  [co.  Dorset],  dean 

of,     106.         See    also    Clare, 

Richard  de. 
St.  Giles,  Upwymbourne,  co. 

Dorest,  advowson  of,  9. 

,  manor  of,  8. 

,  PhUipston,  Phelpeston 

in,  8. 
Wimpole,  Wjmpole,  co.  Cambridge, 

495. 
Winchcombe,      Wynchecombe      [co. 

Gloucester],   abbot   and   con- 
vent of,  482. 


Winchcoombe  (Farm),Wynchecombe 

[in  Crundale],  co.  Kent,  230, 

231. 
Winchelsea,  Wynchelse  [co.  Sussex], 

bailiffs  of,  91,  137,  376. 

,  customers  etc.  of,  137. 

,     landing     of      enemies     at, 

119. 

,  mayor  of,  91,  137. 

,  ship  of,  231. 

Winchester,        co.        Southampton, 

bishop    of.        See    Edington, 

William  de  ;   Wykeham,  Wil- 
liam de. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  grants  to,  443. 

castle,  constable  of,  84. 

,     cathedral     church     of     St 

Swithin,  dean  and  chapter  of, 

250. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  voidance  of,  259. 

,  citizens  of,  188. 

Windsor,  Wyndesore,  New  Wynde- 

sore,  CO.  Berks,  335. 

castle,  433. 

,  clerks  of  works  at.   See 

Hertyngdon,  Adam  de. 
,    constable    of.        See 

Cheyne,  Thomas. 
,  controller  of  works  at. 

See  Rouceby,  John  de. 
,    dean    and   college    of 

chapel  of  St.   CJeorge  within, 

399. 
surveyors  of  works  at, 

named,  412. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  263,  400. 

forest,  133. 

,  letters  close  dated  at,  42,  48, 

76,    101,    102,    114,    130,    135, 

137,  139,  167,  191,  209,  219, 

267,  321,  347,  357,  359,  439, 

456,  486. 

park,  133. 

,  works  at,  453. 

,  Old,     Oldewyndesore      [co. 

Berks],  335. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  133. 

wine,  8,   9,   17,   103,   122,   129,   216, 

226,  227,  257,  258,  322. 
...,..,  assay  of,  143. 

,  customs  on,  334. 

,  dearness  of,  280. 

,     forfeitures     of,     18,      310, 

368. 

,  gangers  of,  132,  309,  310. 

,  old  and  weak,  419. 

,  price  of,  299. 

,  red,  310,  441,  470. 

,  regulation  of  trade  in,   75, 

76,  299,  470. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


667 


w  ine — cont. 

,  sale  of,  in  London,  176,  177, 

212,  280,  309,  310,  364,  365, 
470. 

,  Spanish,  9,  158,  458. 

,  swoot,  158,  176,  206,  212. 

,  white,  310,  470. 

,   wreck   of   ship   laden   with, 

231. 
Winfrith        Newburgli,        Wynfrede 

Neubai'gli,  co.  Dorset,  134. 
Wing,     Wenge     [co.     Buckingham], 
prior  of.  See  Fessunis,  Brother 
John  de. 
Wingham,     Wengham,     Wyngham, 
CO.   Kent,  460. 

,   bailiff  of.      See  Tidecombe, 

William   de. 
Wingrave,   Wengrave,   co.   Bucking- 

liam,     manor     of,      34. 
Winkfield,    Wynkefeld,    co.    Berks, 
•335,  377. 

,  deed  dated  at,  377. 

,  Folly  John  in,  133,  335. 

Winsford,  Wynsford  [co.  Somerset], 

manor  of,  47. 
Winterborne   Whitchurch,    Wynter- 
bourne  Whitchurche,  co.  Dor- 
set, 330. 
Winterborne,  William  de,   164. 
Winterbourne,     Wynterbourne     [co. 
Berks],  271. 

,  CO.  Gloucester,  advowson  of, 

432. 

Earls,    Wynterbourne,    co. 

Wilts,  manor  of,  112. 
Winthorpe,  Wynthorp,  co.  Lincoln, 

322. 
Wintringham,     Wyntryngham,     co. 

York,  340. 
Winwick,     Wynewyk,     co.     North- 
ampton,  215. 
Wircester.    See  Worcester. 
Wirdesford.    See  Woodsford. 
Wirksworth,    co.    Derby,    Cromford 
in,  18. 

,  Steeple,  Steple  in,  18. 

Wirmegeye.    See  Wormegay. 
Wirsop.    See  Worksop. 
Wisbeach,      Wysbeche      [co.      Cam- 
bridge], 277. 
Wiston,  Wyston  [co.  Stiff  oik],  manor 

of,  186. 
Wistow  [co.  York]  ?  Wystow,  parson 
of.  See  Ferughby,  Sir  William. 
Wiswall,       Wysewall       [parish       of 
Whalley],       co.       Lancaster, 
manor  of,  239,  249. 
Witham,    Wytham,    co.  Essex,   197, 
294,  388. 


Witham — cont. 

,  manor  of,  259,  260. 

,  Wytham,  co.  Lincoln,  Toft 

in,  439. 

[co,  Somerset],  prior  of,  170. 

,    Soutli,    Southwythum,    co. 

Lincoln,  manor  of,  427. 
Withernsea,    Wythornse,    co.    York, 

315. 
Withernwick,   Wythernwyk  in  Hol- 
dernesse,    Wythornewyk,    co. 
York,  manor  of,  295,  310. 
Withington,  Wybhynton,  co.   Salop, 

manor  of,  394. 
Withmere,  Wythemere  [near  Wind- 
sor, CO.  Berks],  335. 
Withornwyk.     See  Wythornwyk. 
Witney,  Wytteneye,  co.  Oxford,  475. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  475,  476. 

John  vicar  of,  475. 

,  places  named  in,  475. 

,  shambles  in,  475. 

Witside,  John,  166. 
Wittelbury,  John  de,  501. 
Wittershara,     Wightreshamme     [co. 
Kent],  289^: 

,  deeds  dated  at,  289. 

,  Palster  in,  289. 

Wittlesev,    William    de,    bishop     of 

Worcester,  73,  106,  216,  432. 

Wivelsfield,  Wyvelesfeld,  co.  Sussex, 

271. 
Wivenhoe,  Wyvenho  [co.  Essex],  91. 
Wiverton,    Wyverton,    co.    Notting- 
ham, 313,  314. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  314. 

,  manor  of,  314. 

Wivill,  Robert,  bishop  of  Salisbury, 

463. 
Wixbrugge.    See  Uxbridge. 
woad,  257,  258,  441. 
Woburn,  Wobourne  Chapelle,  Wou- 
borne,     Wouburne     Chapelle 
[co.  Bedford],  60. 

,  abbot  of,  244. 

,  Wouburn,  co.  Buckingham, 

manor  of,  23. 
Wode,  la,  in  Torrington  [co.  Devon], 

191. 
Wode,  Woode,  Edward  atte,  38. 

,  Geoffrey  atte,  373,  374. 

John  atte,  7,  38,  64,  161,  312. 

,   of  Worcestershire,  67. 

,  Lucy  wife  of  John  atte,  161. 

Peter   atte,   justice   of   the 

forest  in  Lancashire,   476. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Sussex,  168. 

,  Richard  atte,  185. 

,  Walter  atte,  of  Erith,  465. 


668 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Wodebury,  John,  191. 
Wodechestre.     See  Woodchester. 
Wodecok,  John  son  of  John,  430. 
Wodeford.    See  Woodford. 
Wodeford,  Robert  de,  194. 
Wodehall.     See  Woodhall. 
Wodehalle,  John  de,  .367. 
Wodeham.    See  Woodham. 
Wodeham,  Simon  son  of  Walter  de, 

of  Surrey,  298,  299. 
Wodehous.    See  Wood  Hall  ? 
Wodehous,  Thomas,  399. 
Wodehull,  Wodhull,  Eleanor  wife  of 

John  de,  knight,  175. 
,    Isabel    wife    of    John    de, 

knight,  tenant  in  chief,  356, 

357. 

,  John  de,  knight,  357. 

son  of  John  de,  175. 

,  Richard,  395. 

,     Thomas     de,     burgess     of 

Newcastle-under-Lyme,     169. 

,  WUliam  de,  175,  357,  387. 

Wode  Hiwyssh.  Wodehiwysshe.    See 

Woodhviish. 
Wodeland,  Wodelond,  Walter,  farmer 

of  subsidy,  204,  381. 
Wodelok,     Jasper,     of     co.     South- 
ampton,  478. 

,  Nicholas,  478,  484,  485,  486. 

,  Thomas,  486. 

Wodelond.     See  Wodeland. 
Wodemersthorne.       See    Woodman- 

sterne. 
Woderyngton,  Roger,  55. 
,   ....  de,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Northumberland,  480. 

Cf.  Widryngton. 

Wodestrete,    William    de,    chaplain 

of  chantry  in  church  of    St. 

John  Zachary,  London,   450. 
Wodeton.    See  Wootton. 
Wodeward,  Amice  wife  of  Hamon  le, 

369. 

,  Hamon  le,  369. 

,  Thomas,  72. 

Wodhorne.     See  Woodhorn. 
Wodhull.    See  Odell,  Wodehull. 
Wodnesbtiry.     See  Wednesbury. 
Wodynton.    ^See  Wootton. 
Woketon.      See   Woughton   on   the 

Green. 
Wolcombe.    See  Woolcombe. 
Wold,  Welde,  co.  Northampton,  214. 

,  Newton.     See  Newton. 

Wold,  John,  391. 
Wolf,  Hugh,  166. 

,  Richard,  of  London,  209. 

,Robert,of  EastonMaudit,389. 

,  WUliam,  146,  389. 


Wolfreton,    Wolferston,    Wolferton, 

Roger  de,  163,  170,  171. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  escheator  in  Essex,  1 , 

5,  33,  108,  114,  139,  142,  217, 

218,  243,  247,  251,  259,  317, 

318,  324,  329,  333,  350,  355, 

412,  415,  425,  432,  433,  438, 

451. 
, in  Herts,  22,  99, 

101,  217,  218,  247,  251,  318, 

333,  412,  438,  451,  452. 
,   .  .  .  . ,   ....  in  Norfolk,  1,  5, 

21.  29,  108,  110,  155,  213,  221, 

247,  251,  260,  311,  320,  350, 

355,  410,   438,   439,  448,   450. 
,   .  .  .  . ,   ....   in  Suffolk,  1,  5, 

27,    100,    108,    114,    164,   215, 

221,  247,  251,  260,  317,  340, 

350,  355,  438,  439,    446,  448. 
Wolhagh.    See  Wellow. 
Wolhampton,  Richard,  468,  469. 
Wolkenstede.    See  Walkinstead. 
WoUore,  David  de,  45,  175,  176,  476. 
,    .  .  .  . ,  canon  of  St.  Peter's, 

York,   201. 
,  . .  .  .,  clerk,  44,  46,  70,  77,  83, 

84,  86,  92,  174,  187,  261,  296, 

365,  388,  461. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  of  chancery,  290, 

291. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  keeper  of  the  rolls  of 

chancery,  404,  499. 
Wollore.    See  Wooler. 
Wolmere.   See  Woolmer. 
Wolrig  by  Harbottle,  Herbotill,  co. 

Northumberland,    440. 
Wolsy,  Cicely  wife  of  Ralph,  66,  67, 

381. 

,  Ralph,  66,  67,  381. 

Wolton,  John  de,  495. 

,  Thomas  de,  456. 

Wolvelay,  Wolvele.    See  WooUey. 
Wolvele,  Jolin,  462. 
Wolveley,  co.  Derby,  314. 
Wolverhampton.      Wolverenehamp- 

ton,  CO.  Stafford,  311. 
Wolverhampton,  co.  Stafford,  Hilton 

in,  289. 
Wolverton.     See  Woolverton. 
Wolverton,  Adam  de  Basynges  son 

of  Sara  daughter  of  John  de, 

241,  242. 
,     Elizabeth     (de     Cogenho), 

daughter  of  John  de,  101,  241, 

242. 
,   ....   (de  Couelee)  daughter 

of   Cicely   daughter   of   John 

de,  241,  242. 
,  Joan  daughter  of  John  de, 

241. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


669 


Wolverton,  Joan — cont. 

,    ....   first  wife  of  John  de, 

241. 
,   ....   [second]  wife  of  John 

de,  101,  241. 

,  John  de,  knight,  101,  241. 

, ,  the  elder,  241,  242. 

,       Margery       (de       Louthe) 

daughter    of    Jolin    de,    101, 

241,  242. 
,  Ralph    son    of     Jolin    de, 

241. 
wolves,  411,  426. 
Wolwyche.    See  Woolwich. 
Wombewell,  Hugh  de,  83. 
Wondslaghdale.       See    Wensleydale. 
Wonston,  Wonsyngton  [co.  Hants], 

parson  of.   See  Ware,  Jolin. 
Woodburn,     East     [in     Corsenside], 

?  Little       Woodburne,        co. 

Northumberland,   440. 
Woodchester,       Wodechestre,       co. 

Gloucester,    manor    and    ad- 

vowson  of,  9. 
Wood  Ditton,  co.  Cambridge,  Saxton 

in,  242. 
Woode.    See  Wode. 
Woodford,    Wodeford,    co.     North- 
ampton,  111. 
Wood  Hall  [parish  of  Pontesbury,  co. 

Salop]  ?    Wodehous,    367. 
Woodhall,    Wodehall,    co.    Lincoln, 

322. 
Woodham      Mortimer,       Wodeham 

Mortymer  [co.  Essex],  197. 
Walter,    Wodeham,    Wode- 
ham Wauter  [co.  Essex],  197. 
,    lord    of.       See    Fitz 

Walter,  Walter. 
Woodliorn,    Wodhorne    [co.    North- 
umberland], manor  of,  440. 

,  North  Seaton  in,  147. 

Woodhuish,   Wode  Hiwyssh,  Wode- 

hiwysshe  [parish  of  Brixham], 

CO.  Devon,  manor  of,  74,  180, 

266. 
Woodhull.    See  Odell. 
Woodmansteme,     Wodemersthorne, 

CO.  Surrey,  20. 
Woodnesborough,  co.  Kent,  Polders, 

Poh-e  in,  446. 
Woodsford,        Wirdesford         Belet, 

Wyrdesford  [co.  Dorset],  deed 

dated  at,  375. 

manor  of,  375. 

Woodstock  [co.  Oxford],  letters  close 

dated  at,  437,  486. 
wool,  11,  12,  49,  130,  146,  152,  153, 

160,  222,  247,  291,  292,  316, 

322,  333,  334,  407. 


wool — cont. 

,    allowance    for    canvass    in 

weighing,    132. 
,   balances  etc.   for  weighing, 

4,  26,  104,  112. 
called    cogwollo    and   refus, 

25,  26. 

,  cappes  of,  441,  445. 

,  custom  on,  95,  104,  120,  315, 

335,  455. 

,  export  of,  from  Ireland,  8. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  from  Kingston-upon- 

Hull,  319. 

,  house  for  weighing,  252. 

,  receiver  of.     See  Charneles, 

John. 

,  regulation  of  sale  of,  483. 

,  staple  of,  79. 

Woolcombe,  Wolcombe,  co.  Dorset, 

8. 
Wooler,    Wollore,    co.    Northumber- 
land, 438. 
Woolley,    Wolvele    [in    White    Wal- 

tham],  CO.  Berks,  133. 
,  Wolvelay  [in  Rovston],  co. 

York,  193. 
Woolmer,      Wolmere,      co.      South- 
ampton, forest  of,  430. 
,     .  .  .  . ,    verderers     of.       See 

Husee,   Nicholas  ;    Westcote, 

Thomas. 

,  manor  of,  430. 

Woolverton,  Wolverton  [co.  North- 
ampton], barony  of,  101. 
Woolwich,     Walwyche,     Wolwyche, 

CO.  Kent,  26,  53. 
Wootton,  Wotton,  co.  Bedford,  434, 

435. 
,  CO.  Oxford,  Dornford,  Dene- 
ford  in,  496. 
,    Wodeton,    Wodynton,    Isle 

of  Wight,  82,  260. 
Bassett,  co.  Wilts,  Fasteme, 

Vastern  in,  242. 
Courtney,    Wotton    Cribet, 

Criket,  &iket,  co.  Somerset, 

manor  of,  74,  180,  266. 
Fitzpaine,      Wodeton      in 

Mersshwodevale,    co.    Dorset, 

advowson  of,  9. 

,  manor  of,  8. 

Worcester,     Wircestre,     Wyrcestre, 

103,  106,  203. 
,    bishop    of.        See    Barnet, 

John  ;        Brian,       Reynold  ; 

Wittlesey,  William  de. 
castle,     gaol     delivery     at, 

205. 
,    citizens    of,    summoned    to 

parliament,   481. 


670 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Worcester,  county  of,   46,   84,    162, 

184,  187,  270. 
,  escheator  in.      See  Perton, 

Leo  de. 

,  justices  in,  191. 

,    ....    of  oyer  and  terminer 

in,  216. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  168, 

273,  480. 

,  sheriff  of,  215. 

,  subsidy  in,  203,  484. 

words,  unusual.    See  Glossary. 
Worfield,  Worfeld,  co.  Salop,  manor 

of,  25,  452. 

,  mills  in,  452. 

,  Roughton  in,  25. 

Worfton,  Isabel  wife  of  William  de, 

270. 

.William,  193. 

, de,  270. 

Cj.  Worston. 

Worksop,  Wirsop  [co.  Nottingham], 

park  of,  442. 
Workyslegh.    See  Worsley. 
Worlich,  Thomas,  184. 
Wormegay,      Wirmegeye,      Wyrme- 

geye,  co.  Norfolk,  25,  104. 
Worsley,     Workyslegh     [parish     of 

Eccles,  CO.  Lancaster],  474. 
worsted  cloth,  376. 
Worstede,  Jolin,  267. 
Worston,  WiUiam  de.  261. 

Cf.  Worfton. 

Worte,  William,  of  Canterbiu-y,  180. 
Worthyngton,  John  de,  179. 
Wotte,  Thomas,  320. 
Wotton,  Walter  de,  200. 

,  William  de,  207. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Hertford,  273. 
Wotton.    See  Wootton. 
Wouborne.    See  Woburn. 
Woubourn,  Robert  de,  296. 
Woubum,  Wouburne  Chapelle.    See 

Woburn. 
Woughton  on  the  Green,  Woketon, 

CO.  Buckingham,  244. 
Wra,  Wro,  John  del,  239. 
Wratting,      West,      WestwTattynge, 

Westwrottyng,       co.       Cam- 
bridge, 41,  86. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  213. 

Wraxall,      Wroxhale,      co.      Dorset, 

manor  and  advowson  of,  472. 
wrecks,  point  of  law  relating  to,  103. 

See  ships. 

Wreohull,   Walter,   of   Stratford-on- 

Avon,  161. 
Wright,  Wryght,  Alan,  of  Winwick, 

216. 


Wright — cont. 

,  Amand,  287. 

,  Hugh,  neif,  285. 

Robert,  of  Wakefield,  86. 

,  Thomas,  neif,  285. 

,  William,  87. 

Wrington,  Wryngton,  co.  Somerset, 

329. 
writs  : 

ad  quod  damnum,  49. 

dedimus  potestatem.  59,  70,  165, 

176,   187,   191,  206,  210,  212, 

296,  314,  378,  392,  396.  467, 

483,  492,  502. 

de  intendendo,  1,  5,  99,  142,  143, 

221,  246,  251,  252,  348,  445. 

de  judicio,  32,  46,  180,  209,  372, 

373,  392,  468. 

diem,  clausit  extremum,  94,  113. 
nisi  prius,  74,  99,  180,  264,  266, 

375. 
of  aid,  23. 
of  dower,  160,  402. 
of  exigents,  7,  60,  209,  291,  372, 

374,  468,  470,  473,  478,  481, 
of  novel  disseisin,  81. 

of  oyer  and  terminer,  385,  392. 
of  right,  46. 

quare  impedit,  32,  256,  375. 
supersedeas,  7. 
Writtle,  Wrytle    [co.    E.ssex],    Moor 

Hall,  la  More  in,  55,  66,  381, 

382,  487. 
Wro.  See  Wra. 
Wrockwardine,     Wrokwardyn,     co. 

Salop,  manor  of,  342. 
Wroth,  John,  366,  493. 

,  citizen  of  London,  402. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  fisher,  of  London,  58. 

,    ....,   the  elder,   citizen  of 

London,  268,  294,  471. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  the  yoiuiger,  92. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    .  .  .  . ,   knight   of   the 

shire  of  Middlesex,   169,  481. 
,     Margaret    wife    of     John, 

493. 
Wrotham,  James  de,  378. 

,  Richard  de,  62. 

Wroxhale.      See  Wraxall. 
Wroxston,  .John  de,  chaplain,  214. 
Wryght.    See  Wright. 
Wryngton.    »See  Wrington. 
Wrytle.     See  Writtle. 
Wulfrycheston,    Richard,    vicar    of 

Sparsholt,   175. 
Wy.   5eeWye. 
Wyard,       Elizabeth       (de       Herle) 

daughter  of  Robert,  152. 

,  John,  152. 

,  Robert,  152. 


I 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


671 


Wyaston   [parish   of   Ediaston],   co. 

Derby,   18. 
Wybard,  John,  verderor  of  Bradon 

forest,   10. 
Wychinf];liani.    See  Wychynglmin. 
Wych  MalbaTik,  Mawbanc,  Maubank. 

See  Nantvvicli. 
Wychwood,  Whicliewode  forest  [co. 

Oxford],  keeper  of,  127. 
Wychyngliam,  Wicliyngliam,  Wych- 

ingliam,  Wilhain,   69. 

,  VVilham  de,  264,  378,  392. 

,   .  .  .  .,  justice,  384. 

,     . .  .  . ,     ....     of    assize    in 

Devon,  266. 
,  .  .  .  . , in    Dorset, 

257. 

,  .  .  .  . , in  Kent,  66. 

, in  Somerset, 

266. 
Wyclyf,  John  de,  210. 
Wycombe,  High  [co.  Buckingham], 

burgesses    of,    summoned    to 

parliament,    169. 
Wydegate,  Richard,  368. 
Wydegode,  Wytegod,  John,  50,  51. 

,   .  .  .  .,  of  Southampton,  122. 

Cf.  Wygod. 

Wydenliey,  John,  386. 
Wyderyngton.     See  Widryngton. 
Wydeville,     Widevylle,     Wydevylle, 

Richard,   Richard  de,   297. 
,      .  .  .  . ,     escheator     in     co. 

Northampton,    23,     41,     101, 

102,   111,   127,   134,   149,   152, 

154,  214,  215,  226,  235,  241, 
.     246,  247,  316,  321,  336,  342, 

343,  346,   348,  350,  355,  356, 

411,  426,  431,  434,  438,  447, 

449. 
,    .  .  .  . ,    ....   in  Rutland,  22, 

149,  339,  438. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  sliire  of 

Northampton,    273,    480. 

, ,  of  Grafton,  279. 

Wye,  Why,  Wy,  co.  Kent,  300,  301, 

494. 

,  church  of,  301. 

,  Perry  Court  alias  Aldoun  in, 

301. 
Wyersdale,     Wyresdale,     co.     Lan- 
caster, manor  of,  222. 
Wyford.     See  Wykford. 
Wygebergh.     See  Wigborough. 
Wygemore.   See  Wigmore. 
Wygenhale,  Richard  son  of  Reynold 

de,  25,  35,  37. 

,  Thomas  son  of  William  de,  37. 

,    William    de,    of    Fordham, 

25,  37. 


Wygonton.    See  Wiggington. 
Wyger,  Thomas,   167. 
Wyggemoro.    See  Wigmore. 
Wyght,  Roger  de,  373. 
Wyghton,  John  de,  408. 
Wygod,  John,  395,  396. 

Cf.  Wydegode. 

Wyhale.   See  WighiU. 

Wyke.     See  Wide. 

Wyke,  Adam  atte,  of  Odstone,  402. 

,  John,  John  do,  68,  323,  472, 

287. 

,   .....  of  Grandpont,  402. 

,  Nicholas,  287. 

,  Richard  de,  497. 

,  Thomas  de,  clerk,  322,  323. 

,  William,  citizen  of  Exeter, 

274. 
Wykeham,  Wilham  de,  121,  123. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  archdeacon  of  Lincoln, 

250,  270,  379,  382. 
,  bishop  of  Winchester, 

250,  379,  382,  406,  443,  459, 

485,  486,  491,  502,  503,  504. 
,    ....,   chancellor,   401,   403, 

404,  409,  465,  469,  494. 
,    .  .  .  . ,   clerk,   justice   of   the 

forest  south  of  Trent,  240. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  keeper    of    the    forest 

south  of  Trent,   339. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  keeper  of  the  lands  of 

Oliver  de  Biu-deux,   335. 
,    keeper  of  the  privy 

seal,  59,  114. 
Wykenby.    See  Wickenby. 
Wykewarre.    See  Wickwar. 
Wykford,   Wyford,   John   de,   chap- 
lain, 360. 

farmer  of  subsidy,  203. 

Wykham,  384. 

,  parson  of.  See  Pelham,  John 

de. 

See  Wickham  Bishops. 

Wykhamond.     See  Wicken. 
Wylesford,  Wylford.    See  Willesford. 
Wylhull.     See  Wilhale. 
Wylinghale.    See  Willingale. 
Wylkyns,  John,  462,  463. 
Wyllyngham,  Wvlyngham,  Jolin  de, 

231. 

,....,  parson  of  Great  Tey,  469. 

Wylmjmton.    See  Wilmington. 

Wyltes.    See  Wilts. 

Wyltesshire.    See  Wilteshire. 

Wylton.     See  Wilton. 

Wylughby,  Thomas  son  of  Richard 

de,  knight,  291. 
Wylynghale.    See  Willingale. 
Wylynghale,  Richard  de,  209. 
Wylyngham.     See  Wyllyngham. 


672 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


Wymark,  Nicholas,  of  Rawcliffe,  12. 
Wymburne.  See  Wimborne  Minster. 
Wymering,  Wymeryng  [co.  Hants], 

406. 
Wymondeswold,  Edmund  de,  chap- 
lain, 271. 
Wymondham,      Wymtindham      [co. 

Leicester],  .324,  501. 

,  CO.  Norfolk,  228. 

,   . .  . . ,  erection  of  steeple  of 

chiirch  of,  451. 

,  prior  of,  450. 

Wymondham,  Adam,  Adam  de,  117. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  477. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  sheriff  of  London,  493. 

,  Lawrence,   382. 

Wynburne.  See  Wimborne  Minster. 
Wynchecombe.       See    Winchcombe, 

Winchcoombe. 
Wynchecombe,  Simon  de,  of  London, 

armourer,  398. 
Wynchelse.    See  Winchelsea. 
Wynchestre,  Cicely  wife  of  John,  66. 

,  John,  of   Southfleet,  66,  69. 

Wyndesore.    See  Windsor. 
Wyndesore.  Clarice  wife  of  Richard 

de,  339,  340. 
,    .  .  .  . ,   assignment  of  dower 

to.  394,  395,  396. 
,  John  de,  escheator  in  War- 

wickshii-e,  127,  135,  149. 

,  Ralph  de,  495. 

,  Richard  de,  heir  of,  340. 

,  William  de,   108,   109,    110, 

331,  453. 

, ,  knight,  187. 

Wynewyk.    See  Winwick. 
Wynewyk,  John  de,  234,  235. 
Wjmfrede  Neuburgh.     See  Winfrith 

Newburgh. 
Wyngefeld,  Eleanor  wife  of  John  de. 

216. 

,  Wilham,  William  de,  186. 

Wyngham.  See  Wingham. 
Wynkefeld.  See  Winkfield. 
Wynkel,    Simon    atte    Strete    called 

Simon,  of  Beetley,  489. 
Wynpole.    See  Wimpole. 
Wynsford.     See  Winsford. 
Wynter,   Agnes  sister  of  Joan  wife 

of   Simon,    388. 

,  Joan  wife  of  Simon,  388. 

,  Simon,  goldsmith  of  London, 

388. 
Wynterbourne.       See    Winterborne, 

Winter  bourne . 
Wynterthorp.      See  Weaverthorpe. 
Wyntershull,  Thomas  de,  478. 
Wynthorp.     See  Winthorpe. 
Wyntryngham.     See  Wintringham. 


Wyot,  William,  405. 

, ,  of  Colnbrook,  471,  473. 

Wyrcestre.    See  Worcester. 
Wyrdesford.   See  Woodsford. 
Wyresdale.    See  Wyersdale. 
WjTmegeye.    See  Wormegay. 
Wyrsop,    John    de,    coroner    of    co. 

Nottingham,   245. 
Wyryng,  John,  seaman,  115. 
Wysbeche.    See  Wisbeach. 
Wyse,  John,  of  Kenardington,  368, 

369. 
Wysewall.    See  Wiswall. 
Wysman,  John,  of  Standlake,  474. 
Wyston.    See  Wiston. 
Wystow.     See  Wistow  ? 
Wytegod.     See  Wydegode. 
Wytham.    See  Witham. 
Wythegenemulle,  John,  249,  369. 
Wvthemere.    See  Withmere. 
Wyther,  William,  399. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  of  Dorchester,  farmer 

of  subsidy,  204,  484. 
Wytherle,  Robert  de,  master  of  the 

chapel   of   Corpus   Christi  by 

Candlewick    Street,    London, 

298,  299. 
Wythernwyk.      See  Wythornwyk. 
Wythernwyk    in    Holdernesse,   Wy- 

thornewyk.    See  Withernwick. 
Wythornse.    See  Withernsea. 
Wythornwyk,Withornwyk,Wythern- 

wyk,  Robert  de,  295. 
,    Thomas    de,    escheator    in 

Holderness,  34,  101,  245,  343, 

346,  431,  4.35. 
Wythynton.    See  Withington. 
Wytteneye.    See  Witney. 
Wyvelcote.    See  Wilcote. 
Wyvelescombe.     See  Wevelescombe. 
Wyvelesfeld.    ^ee  Wivelsfield. 
Wyvenho.    See  Wivenhoe. 
Wyverton.    See  Wiverton. 


Yakesle,  Yakeslee.  See  Yaxley. 
Yalding,  Ealdynge,  co.  Kent,  48. 
Yale    [co.    Denbigh],    lord   of.      See 

Fitz   Alan,    Richard,    earl   of 

Arundel. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


673 


Vardloy  Gobion,  Yerdele  Cobyoun, 

CO.  Nortliainpton.  297. 
Yarin,  Jariiiu,  Janun  in  Clyvolaiid, 
CO.  York,  manor  of,  355,  356. 
Yarnioutli,  Great,  Great  Jerneniuth, 
CO.  Norfolk,  45,  402. 

,  bailiffs  of,  30,  36,  52, 

91,  137,  308,  407. 

,  .  .  . . ,  controller  of  customs 

at,   132. 

,    .  .  .  . ,   customers,   collectors 

of  customs  at,  6,   11,  26,  30, 
52,  95,  132,  137. 

fair  at,  30,  308. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  liberties  of  barons  of 

Cinque  Ports  in,  308,  309. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  mayor  of,  407. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  port  of,  36. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  searcher  of  forfeitures 

at,  11. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  troners  at,  26,  132. 

,  Little,      Little       Jerneinuth 

[CO.  Norfolk],  bailiffs  of.  91. 
Yattendon.    Yatyngden,    Yatyndon, 
CO.  Berks,  advowson  of,  107, 
208. 

,  manor  of,  107,  208. 

Yaxley,  Yakesle,  Yakeslee,  co.  Hunt- 
ingdon, 42,  43. 
Yeaveley,   Yeveley  [in  Shirley],   co. 

Derby,  18. 
Yeovil,  Yevele,  co.  Somerset,  47,  398. 

,  parson  of.     See  Sambourne, 

Robert. 
Yeovilton,  Yevelton,   co.   Somerset, 

43. 
Yepe.    See  Eype. 
YeppeAviz.    See  Ipswich. 
Yerdebui'gh,  Jolm  de,  433. 
Yerdele     Cobioun.         See     Yardley 

Gobion. 
Yeshampstede,  Yeshainstede.        See 

Easthampstead. 
Yevele.    See  Yeovil. 
Yevele,  Thomas  de,  rector  of  Upton, 

CO.  Worcester,  216. 
Yeveley.    See  Yeaveley. 
Yevelton.     See  Yeovilton. 
Yeye.    See  Eye. 
Yiddeford.    See  Ideford. 
Ylmyndon    by    Whitchii'che.        Sec 

Ilmington. 
Ymeworth.    See  Ember. 
Ymme,  Thomas,  312. 
Yoman,    Yomiian,    Cicely    daughter 
of  William,  175. 

James  son  of  William.   72, 

175. 

,  Margery  wife  of  William,  72, 

175. 


Yojnan — cont. 

William,  175. 

,...-,  carpenter,  "  ferrour  "  of 

London,  72. 
Yonge.    See  Young. 
York,  Everwyk,   155,  332,  333,  358, 
387,  413,  417,  431,  438,  467, 
601. 

,  archbishop  of.  See  Thoresby, 

John  de. 

,      .  .  .  . ,     settlement     as     to 

primacy  of,    181. 

,  bailiffs  of,  91,  240,  376,  407. 

,  citizens  of,  332. 

,  deeds  acknowledged  at,  59, 

70,  210. 

, dated  at,  210,  502. 

,  diocese  of,  taxation  of,  151. 

,    Dyvelynstanes    in    Northo- 

strete,  296. 

,  exception  of,  from  farm  of 

exchange  of  money  through- 
out England,  29,  79,  80,  290. 

,  girdler  of,  401. 

,  justices  at,  275. 

,  mayor  of,  91,  376,  407. 

,  merchants  of,  296. 

,  parliament  at,  326. 

,     St.     Crux     in     Fossegate, 

chantry  in,  413. 

,      St.      Leonard's      hospital, 

brethren  of,  99. 

,     .  .  .  . ,     warden     of.         See 

Ravensere,  Richard  de. 

,    St.    Martin    in    Micklegate, 

chantry  of  Andrew  Toller  in, 
332,  333. 

,  St.  Mary's  abbey,  abbot  of, 

191. 

,    .  .  . . ,   ....    and  monks   of, 

233,  502. 

,     .  .  .  . ,    chapter     house     of, 

502. 

,    St.     Peter's     church,     155, 

156. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  canons  of,  155. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  named,  20 1 . 

,  .  .  .  . ,  chapter  of,  58,  59,  155. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  sacristan  of  chapel  of 

St.  Mary  and  All  Angels  in. 
See  Waltham,  John  de. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  vicars  of  the  choir  of. 

See  Miton,  Sir  Thomas  de  ; 
Neiibiu-ah,  John  de  ;  Osgotby, 
Sir  Thomas. 

,     . .  .  . ,    treasurer    of.        See 

Branketre,  Jolm  de. 

,  streets  named  in,  296.   333, 

413,  417. 
,  suburb  of,  501. 


E   43 


674 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


York,  county  of,  51,  69,  78,  80,  81, 
82,  83,  163,  172,  192,  193, 
245,  269,  272,  288,  293,  296, 
306,  387,  394,  401,  460,  465, 
467,  472,   477,   488,  491. 

,  escheators  in.    See  Nessefeld, 

William  de  ;  Reygate,  William 
de  ;  Scotherskelf,  John  de  ; 
Wythornwyk,  Thomas  de. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  169, 

273   479. 

,   sheriff  of,    15,    16,   30,    105, 

129,  138,  156,  216,  217,  229, 
259,  260,  288,  362,  383,  390, 
400,  403,  407.  412,  413,  418, 
429,  479. 

,  subsidy  in,  281. 

York,  Eboraoo,  Everw\'k,  John, 
John  de,  87,  489. 

,  Robert  de,  188. 

Youman.     See  Yoman. 

Young,  Yonge,  Hugh  le,  clerk,  296. 

,  Thomas,  168. 

Walter,  191.  195. 

,  William,  191,  226. 


Ystrad-yw,  Estredewy  [co.  Brecon], 
keeper  of  lordship  of,  371. 

Ywavn,  Thomas  son  of  John,  of 
Bretforton,  170. 


Zacarie,  Benedict,  290. 

Zeeland,  Seland,  422. 

Zouche,  Zusche,  Hugh  la,  tena^it  in 
chief,  454. 

,  Richard  la.  knight,  164. 

,  William  de  la,  496. 

,  Wniiara  la,  of  Harringworth 

326. 

,  .  .  .  .,   .  .  .  .,  kniglit,  461. 

,  William  le,    monk  of  Glas- 
tonbury,  1. 


CATALOGUE 

{Revised  to  Ixt  February,   IfllO) 


OF 


ENGLISH,    SCOTTISH,    AND    IRISH    RECORD 
PUBLICATIONS, 

REPORTS     OF     THE     HISTORICAL     MANUSCRIPTS 

COMMISSION, 


AND 


ANNUAL  REPORTS  OF  THE  DEPUTY  KEEPERS 
OF  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS,  ENGLAND  AND 

IRELAND, 

Printed  for 

HIS   MAJESTY'S   STATIONEKY   OFFICE, 

And  to  be  purchased, 

Either  directly  or  through  any  Bookseller,  from 

WYMAN    AND    SONS,    Ltd..    Fetter    Lane,    E.G., 
and  32,  Abingdon  Street,  Westminster,  S.W.  ;   or 

OLIVER    AND    BOYD,    Tweeddale    Court,    Edinburgh  ;    or 
EDWARD    PONSONBY,    116,   Grafton   Street,   Dublin. 


CONTENTS. 


Page 

Calendabs  of  State   Papers,   &c 3 

Acts  of  the  Privy  Council           8 

Public  Record  Office,  Lists  and  Indexes ..  10 

Chronicles  and  Memorials  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland 

during  the  Middle  Ages        12 

Publications  of  the  Record  Commissioners,  &c.           . .      .  .  20 

Reports  on  the  Utrecht  Psalter      21 

Works   Published  in  Photozincography           22 

Historical  Manuscripts  Comimission  Reports 24 

Reports  of  the  Deputy  Keeper  of  the  Public  Records       .  .  31 

Scottish  Record  Publications       35 

Irish   Record   Publications               36 

Reports   of   the   Deputy   Keeper   of   the    Public   Records, 

Ireland           37 


CALENDARS   OF   STATE   PAPERS.    &c. 


[Imperial  8vo.,  olotli.     Price  15s.  each  Volume  or  Part,  except  where 

otherwise  stated.] 


Subsequent  to  recommendations  of  Committees  of  tlio  ITouse  of 
Commons  in  1800  and  1836,  the  Master  of  the  Rolls,  in  18G5,  stated  to 
the  Lords  of  the  Treasury  that  although  "  the  Records,  State  Papers, 
"  and  Documents  in  his  charge  constitute  the  most  complete  and 
"  perfect  series  of  their  kind  in  the  civilized  world,  and  although 
"  they  are  of  the  greatest  value  in  a  historical  and  constitutional  point 
"  of  view,  yet  they  are  comparatively  useless  to  the  public  froin  the 
"  want  of  proper  Calendars  and  Indexes."  Whereupon  their  Lord- 
ships assented  to  the  necessity  of  having  Calendars  prepared,  and 
empowered  the  Master  of  the  Rolls  to  take  such  steps  as  might  be 
necessary  for  this  purpose. 

The  following  Works  have  been  already  published  in  this  Series  : — 

Calendarium  Genealogicum  ;  for  the  reigns  of  Henry  III.  and 
Edward  I.     Edited  by  C.   Roberts.     2  Vols.      1865. 

Syllabus,  in  English  of  Rymer's  Fcedera.  By  Sir  T.  D.  Hardy, 
D.C.L.  1869-1885.  Vol.  I.— 1066-1377.  (Out  of  Print.)  Vol. 
IL— 1377-1654.      Vol.  III.,  Appendix  and  Index. 

Descriptive  Catalogue  of  Ancient  Deeds,  preserved  in  the  Public 
Record  Office.      1890-1906.      Vols.  I.,  II.,   III.,  IV.  and  V. 

Calendar  op  the  Patent  Rolls.     1891-1909. 

Henry  III. 

Vol.   I.   (Latin  text). — 
1216-1225. 
11.   (Latin  texf^. — 
1225-1232 
I. 

L— 1272-1281. 

IL— 1281-1292. 

II. 

I.— 1307-1313. 

IL— 1313-1317. 

III.— 1317-1321. 

III. 

I.— 1327-1330. 

IL— 1330-1334. 

III.— 1334-1338. 

IV.— 1338-1340. 

v.— 1340-1343. 

II. 

I.— 1377-1381. 
11.-1381-1385. 
III.— 1385-1389. 
IV. 

I.— 1399-1401. 
IL— 1401-1405. 
VI. 

I.— 1422-1429. 
IL— 1429-1436. 
IV.— 1461-1467. 
Henry  VI.— 
Edward  V., 


Vol. 

Edw^ard 

Vol. 

Vol. 
Edward 

Vol. 

Vol. 

Vol. 
Edward 

Vol. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

Vol. 
Richard 

Vol. 

Vol. 

Vol. 
Henry 

Vol. 

Vol. 
Henry 

Vol. 

Vol. 
Edward 
Edward  IV., 
Edward  IV., 


Vol. 

IIL- 

-1232-1247. 

Vol. 

IV.- 

-1247-1258. 

Vol. 

III. 

—1292-1301. 

Vol. 

IV. 

—1301-1307. 

Vol. 

IV. 

—1321-1324. 

Vol. 

V. 

—1324-1327. 

Vol.  VI.— 1343-1345. 

Vol.  VII.^1345-1348. 

Vol.  VIIL— 1348-1350. 

Vol.  IX.— 1350-1354. 


Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 

Vol. 
Vol. 

Vol. 
Vol. 


IV. 

V. 

VI. 


-1388-1392. 
-1391-1396. 
-1396-1399. 


III.— 1405-1408. 
IV.— 1408-1413. 

III.— 1436-1411. 
IV.— 1441-1446. 


1467-1477. 

Richard  III.,   1476-1485. 


Wt,  118.— 237  .—2/10.— n.T.  Lfd, 


Calendar  op  the  Close,  Rolls.     1892-1908. 


Henry  III.   (Latin  text). 

Vol. 

I.- 

—1227-1231 

Vol. 

11. 

—1231-1234 

Edward 

I. 

Vol. 

I. 

—1272-1279 

Vol. 

II. 

—1279-1288 

Vol. 

III. 

—1288-1296 

Edward 

II. 

Vol. 

I. 

—1307-1313. 

Vol. 

II.- 

—131.3-1318. 

Edward 

III. 

Vol. 

I.- 

—1.327-1330. 

Vol. 

II. 

—1330-1333. 

Vol. 

III. 

—1333-1337. 

Vol. 

IV. 

—1337-1339 

Vol. 

V. 

—1339-1341. 

Vol. 

VI.- 

—1341-134.3. 

Vol. 

III. 

-1234-1237 

Vol. 

Vol. 

IV.- 
V.- 

-1296-1302 
-1302-1307 

Vol. 

Vol. 

III.- 
IV.- 

-1318-1323. 
-1323-1327. 

.      Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 

VII.- 

VIII.- 

IX.- 

X- 

XI.- 

-1343-1346. 
-1346-1349. 
-1349-1354. 
-1354-1360 
—1360-1364 

1903-1908. 
Vol.      III.- 

—1300-1326 

Calendar  op  the  Charter  Rolls. 
Vol.       I.— 1226-1257. 
Vol.     II.— 1257-1300. 

Calendar  of  Inquisitions  post  mortem  and  other  analogous  docu- 
ments.     1898-1909. 


Vol.    I.— Henry  III. 
Vol.  II.— 1-19  Edward  I. 

Second  Series — 
Henry  VII.— Vol.  I. 


Vol.       v.— 1-9  Edward  II. 
Vol.  VII.— 1-9  Edward  III. 


Inquisitions  and  Assessments  relating  to  Feudal  Aids,  etc.  1284- 
1431.  Vol.  I.  Bedford  to  Devon.  1899.  Vol.  II.  Dorset  to 
Huntingdon.  1900.  Vol.  III.  Kent  to  Norfolk.  1904.  Vol. 
IV.  Northampton  to  Somerset.  1906.  Vol.  V.  Stafford  to 
Worcester.      1909. 

Calendar  of  Letters  and  Papers,  Foreign  and  Domestic,  op  the 
reign  op  Henry  VIII.,  preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office, 
the  British  Museum,  and  elsewhere  in  England.  Edited  by  J.  S. 
Brewer,  M.A.  (Vols.  I.-IV.)  ;  by  J.  Gairdner  (Vols.  V.-XIII.)  ; 
and  by  J.  Gairdner,  C.B.,  and  R.  H.  Brodie  (Vols.  XIV. -XXI.). 
1862-1908. 
Vol.  I.— 1509-1514.  (Out  of  print.) 


Vol.  II.  (in  two  parts) — 1515- 

1518.   (Part  II.  out  of  print.) 
Vol.  III.   (in  two  parts)— 1519- 

1523. 
Vol.  IV. — Introduction. 
Vol.  IV.,  Part  I.— 1524-1526. 
Vol.  IV.,  Part  II.— 1526-1528. 

(Out  of  print.) 
Vol.  IV.,  Part  III.— 1529-1530. 
Vol.  v.— 1531-1532. 
Vol.  VI.— 1533. 
Vol.  VII.— 1534. 
Vol.  VIII.— 1535,  Jan.  to  July. 
Vol.  IX.— 1535,  Aug.  to  Dec. 

(Out  of  print.) 
Vol.  X.— 1536,  Jan.   to  June. 

(Out  of  print.) 
Vol.  XI.— 1536,  July  to  Dec. 
Vol.  XII.,  Part  1.-1537,  Jan. 

to  May. 
Vol.  XII.,  Part  II.— 1537,  June 

to  Dec. 
Vol.  XIII.,  Part  I.— 1538,  Jan. 

to  July. 


II.— 1538, 


Vol.    XIII.,    Part 

Aug.  to  Dec. 
Vol.  XIV.,  Part  I.— 1539,  Jan. 

to  July. 
Vol.    XIV.,    Part    II.— 1539, 

Aug.  to  Dec. 
Vol.  XV.— 1540,  Jan.  to  Aug. 
Vol.     XVI.— 1540,     Sept.     to 

1541,  Dec. 


Vol 
Vol 


XVII.— 1542. 


XVIII. ,    Part  I.— 1543, 

Jan.  to  July. 
Vol.    XVIII.,  Part  II.— 1543, 

Aug.  to  Dec. 
Vol.  XIX.,  Part  I.— 1544,  Jan. 

to  July. 
Vol.    XIX.,    Part    II.— 1544, 

Aug.  to  Dec. 
Vol.  XX.,  Part  I.— 1545,  Jan. 

to  July. 
Vol.     XX.,*^     Part     II.— 1545, 

Aug.  to  Dec. 
Vol.  XXL,  Part  I.— 1546,  Jan. 

to  Aug. 


Calendar  of  Statk  PAricjts,  JJomkstio  Sebiks,  of  the  reions  of 
P^DWARD  VI.,  Mary,  Elizabeth,  and  James  I.  Edited  by  R. 
Lemon  (Vols.  I.  and  11.)  cmd  bij  Mary  Anne  Everett  Green 
(Vols.  lll.-XII.).      1850-1872. 

Vol.       1.— ir)47-l.'J8(). 

Vol.     11.-1581-1590.       1 


Vol.  VIII.— 1G0:M  (510. 
Vol.  IX.— IGl  1-1018. 
Vol.  X.— 1019-102:5. 
Vol.       XI.— ]02:M025, 

Addenda,    1()0;{-1025. 
Vol.     XU.— Addoiula,     1580 

1025.      {Out  of  print.) 


Wltll 


th 


Vol.  III.— 1591-1594.  ...   ,     , 

Vol.    IV.— 1595-1597.       U^^«.<;>/ 

Vol.      v.— 1598-1  ()0 1.  print.) 

Vol.     VI.— 1001-1003. 

with  Addenda,   1547-1505. 

Vol.  VII.— Addenda,  1566-1579. 
[Out  of  print.) 
Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Domestic  Series,  of  the  rekjn  of 
Charles  I.  Edited  by  J.  Bruce  (Vols.  I. -XII.)  ;  by  J.  Bruce 
and  W.  D.  Hamilton  (Vol.  Xlll.)  ;  by  W.  D.  Hamilton  (Vols. 
XIV.-XXII.)  ;  by  VV.  D.  Hamilton  and  Sophie  C.  Lojias  (Vol. 
XXIII.).      1858-1897. 

Vol.  I.— 1025-1020. 

Vol.        II.— 1027-1028. 

V^ol.      III.— 1028-1029. 

Vol.       IV.— 1029-1031. 

Vol.         v.— 1031-1633. 

Vol.       VI.— 1033-1034.  1 

Vol.     VII.— 1034-1035.  j     ,,-,   ,     , 

Vol.   VIII.— 1035.  \    v^?«  <^/ 

Vol.      IX.— 1035-1030.  I    V^^nt.) 

Vol.        X.— 1030-1037.  J 

Vol.      XI.— 1037. 

Vol.     XII.— 1037-1038.     {Out  of 

print. ) 

Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Domestic  Series,  during  the  Common- 
wealth.    Edited  by  Mary  Anne  Everett  Green.      1875-1886. 


Vol. 

XIII.- 

—1638-1039. 

Vol. 

XIV.- 

-1639.      {Out  of 
print. ) 

Vol. 

XV. 

-1639-1640. 

Vol. 

XVI.- 

-1640. 

Vol. 

XVII.- 

—1640-1641. 

Vol. 

XVIII.- 

-1641-1643. 

Vol. 

XIX. 

—1644. 

Vol. 

XX. 

—  1644-1645. 

Vol. 

XXI. 

—1645-1647. 

Vol. 

XXII.- 

—1648-1649. 

Vol. 

XXIII.- 

— Addenda,  1625- 
1649. 

Vol.  I.- 
Vol.  tll.- 
Vol.  III.- 
Vol.  I  IV.- 


-1649-1650. 
-1650. 
-1651. 
-1051-1052. 


Vol.  v.— 1052-1053. 
Vol.  VI.— 1653-1654. 
Vol.  VII.— 1654. 


I  {O'ut  of 
I    print. ) 


Vol.  VIII.— 1655. 

Vol.  IX.— 1655-1656. 

Vol.  X.— 1656-1657. 

{Out  of  print.) 

Vol.  XI.— 1657-1658. 

Vol.  XII.— 1658-1659. 

Vol.  XIII.— 1659-1660. 


Calendar    of    State    Papers.     Combiittee   for   the   Advance   of 

Money.      1642-1656.     Edited  by  Mary  Anne   Everett  Green. 

Parts  I.-III.     1888. 
Calendar    of    State    Papers.     Committee  for  Cobipoundinc,  &c. 

1643-1660.     Edited    by    Mary    Anne    Everett    Green.     Parts 

I.-V.    1889-1892. 
Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Domestic  Series,   of  the  reign  of 

Charles  II.     Edited  by  Mary  Anne  Everett  Green  (Vol.  I.-X.)  ; 

and  by  F.  H.  B.  Daniell  (Vols.  XI.-XVIII.).     1800-1909. 


Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 


I.— 1660-1001 
II.— 1061-1662.  ] 
ni.— 1663-1664.  ! 
IV.— 1664-1665.  1.  {Oitt  of 


v.— 1665-1666. 
VI.— 1666-1007. 
VII.— 1007. 
Vol.  VIIL— 1067-1668. 
Vol.   IX.— 1668-1669. 


print. ) 


Vol.  X.— 1670,   and  Ad- 
denda,   1660-1670. 

Vol.  XI.— 1671. 

Vol.  XII.— 1671-1672. 

Vol.  XIII.— 1672. 

Vol.  XIV.— 1072-1073. 

Vol.  XV.— 1673. 

Vol.  XVI.— 1673-1675. 

Vol.  XVII.— 1675-1676. 


Vol.  XVIII.— 1676-1677. 
Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Domestic  Series,  of  the  reign  of 
William  III.     Edited  by  W.  J.  Hardy.     1895-1908. 


Vol.  I.— 1689-1690. 
Vol.  II.— 1690-1691. 
Vol.  III.— 1691-1692. 
Vol.  IV.— 1693. 


Vol.     v.— 1694-1695. 

Vol.  VI.— 1695,  July  to  Dec.  ; 

and  Addenda,   1689- 

1695. 


6 


Calendar  of  Home  Office  Papers  of  the  reign  of  George  111. 

Vols.  I.  and  II.     Edited  by  J.  Redington.      1878-1879.     Vols.  III. 

and  IV.     Edited  by  R.  A.  Roberts.      1881-1899. 
Vol.     1.— 1760  (25  Oct.)-1765.       I         Vol.  111.— 1770-1772. 
Vol.  II.— 1766-1769.  I         Vol.  IV.— 1773-1775. 

Calendar  of  Treasury  Books.     Edited  by  W.   A.   Shaw,   Litt.  D. 
1904-1909. 


Vol.  1.— 1660-1667. 
Vol.  II.— 1667-1668. 
Vol.  111.— 1669-1672. 


Part  I. 


Vol.  III.- 
Vol.    IV.- 


-1669-1672.  Part  II. 
-1672-1675. 


Edited  by  J.  Redington.      1868- 


Calendar  of  Treasury  Papers. 
1889. 
Vol.       I.— 1557-1696.     (Out  of 

print. ) 
Vol.     II.— 1697-1702. 
Vol.  111.— 1702-1707. 

Calendar  of  Treasury  Books  and  Papers.    Edited  by  W.  A.  Shaw, 
Litt.  D.      1897-1903. 


Vol.  IV.- 
Vol.  V.- 
Vol.  VI.- 


-1708-1714. 
-1714-1719. 
-1720-1728. 


Vol.  I.— 1729-1730. 
Vol.  II.— 1731-1734. 
Vol.  111.— 1735-1738. 


Vol.  IV.— 1739-1741. 
Vol.     v.— 1742-1745. 


Calendar  of  State  Papers  relating  to  Scotland.     Edited  by  M.  J. 
Thorpe.     1858. 
Vol.     1.-1509-1589. 

Vol.  II.— 1589-1603  ;     an  Appendix,  1543-1592  ;     and  State  Papers 

relating  to  Mary  Queen  of  Scots,  1568-1587. 

Calendar  of  Documents  relating  to  Ireland,  in  the  Public  Record 

Office,  London.     Edited  by  H.  S.  Sweetman,  B.A.  (Vols.  I.-IV.)  ; 

and  by  H.  S.  Sweetman  and  G.  F.  Handcock  (Vol.  V.).      1875-1886. 


Vol.  I.— 1171-1251. 
Vol.  IL— 1252-1284. 
Vol.  III.— 1285-1292. 


Vol.  IV.— 1293-1301. 
Vol.     v.— 1302-1307. 


Calendar  of  State  Papers  relating  to  Ireland,  Henry  VIII. — 
Elizabeth.  Edited  by  H.  C.  Hamilton  (Vols.  l.-V.);  and  by 
E.  G.  Atkinson  (Vols.  VI.-X.).     1860-1905. 


i,  Vol.       I.— 1509-1573. 
'  Vol.     II.— 1574-1585. 

(Out  of  print.) 
Vol.  III.— 1586-1588. 
Vol.   IV.— 1588-1592. 
Vol.     v.— 1592-1596. 
Calendar  of  State  Papers  relating  to  Ireland,  James  I.,  preserved 
in  the  Public  Record  Office,  and  elsewhere.     Edited  by  the  Rev. 
C.  W.  Russell,  DD.,  and  J.  P.  Prendergast.     1872-1880. 


Vol.  VI.- 

Vol.  VII.- 

Vol.  VIIL- 

Vol.  IX.- 

Vol.  X.- 


-1596-1597. 

-1598-1599. 

-1599-1600. 

-1600. 

-1600-1601. 


Vol.       I.- 
Vol.     II.- 


-1603-1606. 

(Out  of  print.) 
-1606-1608. 


Vol.  III.— 1608-1610. 
Vol.  IV.— 1611-1614. 
Vol.      v.— 1615-1625. 


Calendar  of  State  Papers  relating  to  Ireland,  Charles  I.  and 
Commonwealth.     Edited  by  R.  P.  Mahaffy,  B.A.     1900-1903. 


IV. — Adventurers      for 
Land,  1642-1659. 


Vol.       I.— 1625-1632.  Vol. 

Vol.     II.— 1633-1647. 
Vol.  III.— 1647-1660,  with 
Addenda,   1625-1660. 
Calendar  of  State  Papers  relating  to  Ireland,  Charles  II.     Edited 
by  R.  P.  Mahaffy,  B.A.,  1905-1908. 


Vol.     I.— 1660-1662. 
Vol.  IL— 1663-1665. 


Vol.  III.— 1666-1669. 


Calendar  of  the  Carew  Papers,  preserved  in  the  Lambeth  Library. 
Edited,  by  J.    S.    Brewer,   M.A.,   and  W.    Bullen.      1867-1873. 

Vol.  IV.— 1601-1603. 
Vol.     v.— Book  of  Howth. 
(Out  of  Miscellaneous. 

print.)  Vol.    VI.— 1603-1624, 


Vol.  I.— 1515-1574. 
Vol.  11.-1575-1588. 
Vol.  III.— 1589-1600. 


Calrndar  op  Statk  Papiors,  Colonial  SSkriks.  lidiled  bi/  W.  N. 
Sainsiuiry  (VoIh.  l.-IX.)  ;  bi/  W.  N.  Sainsiiuky  and  tlio  Hon. 
.).  VV.  KoirrKscuio  (Vol.  X.)  ;  bi/  tlio  lion.  J.  W.  Fortkscuk 
(\'(.ls.  X1.-XVI.);  (iiid  b>/  C.  Headlam,  M.A.  (Vol.  XVII.). 
18G0-1'J08. 


Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 

Vol. 

Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 


I. — America  and  West  Indies,   1574- KiOO. 
II. — East  Indies,  China,  and  Japan,  I5l,'M()l().  ] 
III.—  „  „  „  KJ17-I()21.  [      (Out  of 

IV.—  ,,  ,.  ,,  U;22-l()24.   :       priuL) 

V. — Aniorica    and    AVi-sL    Indies,      1  (Hi  1- 1008.  i 
VI.— East  Indies,  China,  and  Persia,  1025-1029. 
Vir.— Anieriea  and  West  Indices.   100!)-I074. 
VII  I. —East  Indies  and   P(-rsia,    103O-10:}4. 
IX. — America   and    West    Indies,    1075-1076,   and   Addenda, 
1574-1074. 
X. — America  and  West  Indies,  1077- 1080. 


XI.— 

XII.— 

XIII.— 

XIV.— 

XV.— 

XVI.— 

XVII.— 


1081-1085. 
„  1085-1088. 
„  1089-1092. 
„       1693-1090. 

1090-1097. 

1097-1098. 
,,  1099  ;     with  Addenda, 

1098. 
Foreign    Series,    preserved 


1621- 
the 


Calendar   of    State    Papers,    j^oreign    series,    preserved    m 
Public  Record  Office.     Edited  bij  W.  B.  Tvri<ibvi.l.      1801. 
Edward  VI.,  1547-1553.         I         Mary,   1553-1558. 

Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Foreign  Series,  of  the  reign  of 
Elizabeth,  preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office,  &c.  Edited 
by  the  Rev.  J.  Stevenson,  M.A.  (Vols.  I. -VII.)  ;  by  A.  J.  Crosby, 
M.A.  (Vols.  VIII.-XL);  and  by  A.  J.  Butler,  M.A.  (Vols.  XII.- 
XVI.).      1803-1909. 


Vol, 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 


I.- 

II.- 

III.- 

IV.- 

V.- 

VI.- 

VII.- 

VIII.- 

IX.- 


1559. 
1500. 
1501. 
1502. 


-1558 

-1559 

-1500 

-1561 

-1562. 

-1563. 

-1564-1505. 

-1566-1568. 

-1569-1571. 


Vol. 

X.- 

— 1572-1574  (Ot<^o/ 
jrri7it.) 

Vol. 

XI.- 

—1575-1577. 

Vol. 

XII.- 

—1577-1578. 

Vol. 

XIII.- 

—1578-1579. 

Vol. 

XIV.- 

-1579-1580. 

Vol. 

XV.- 

-1591-1582. 

Vol. 

XVI.- 

-1582. 

Calendar  of  Documents  in  France,  illustrative  of  the  History  of 
Great  Britain  and  Ireland.  Vol.  I.  918-1206.  Edited  by  J.  H. 
Round,  M.A.      1899. 

Calendar  of  Letters,  Despatches,  and  State  Papers,  relating  to 
the  Negotiations  between  England  and  Spain,  preserved  at  Siman- 
cas  and  elsewhere.  Edited  by  G.  A.  Bergenroth  (Vols.  I.  and 
II.)  ;  by  Don  Pascual  de  Gay'angos  (Vols.  III.  to  VI.)  ;  by 
Don  Pascual  de  Gayangos  and  M.  A.  S.  Hume  (Vol.  VII.)  ; 
and  by  M.  A.  S.  Hume  (Vol.  VIII.).      1862-1904. 


Vol.     I.— 1485-1509. 

(Out   of    print.) 
Vol.   II.— 1509-1525. 
Supplement     to    Vol.    I.      and 

Vol.  II. 
Vol.   III.   Part     I.— 1525-1526. 
Vol.   III.   Part  II.— 1527-1529. 
Vol.    IV.  Part     I.— 1529-1530. 
Vol.    IV.  Part  II.— 1531-1533. 


Vol.  IV.   Part 
continued. 

Vol.  V.   Part 

Vol.  V.   Part 

Vol.  VI.   Part 

Vol.  VI.   Part 

Vol.  VII.— 1544. 

Vol.  VIIL— 1545-1546. 


II.— 1531-1533. 

I.— 1534-1535. 
I.I.— 1536-1538. 

I.— 1538-1542. 
II.— 1542-1543. 


(Out  of  print.) 

Calendar  op  Letters  and  State  Papers,  relating  to  English 
Affairs,  preserved  principally  in  the  Archives  of  Simancas. 
Edited  by  M.  A.  S.  Hume.      1892-1899. 

Vol.     I.— 1558-1567.  I         Vol.  III.— 1580-1586. 

Vol.  IL— 1568-1579.  Vol.  IV.— 1587-1603. 


8 

Calendar  of  State  Papebs  and  Manuscripts,  relating  to  Enolish 
Affairs,  preserved  in  the  Archives  of  Venice,  &c.  Edited  by 
K.  Brown  (Vols.  I. -VI.)  ;  by  R.  Brown  and  the  Right  Hon.  G. 
Cavendish-Bentinck  (Vol.  VII.)  ;  by  H.  F.  Brown  (VVis. 
VIII.-XII.)  ;  and  by  A.  B.  Hinds,  M.A.  (Vols.  XIII.-XV.). 
1864-1909. 

Vol.     VII.— 15.58-1.580. 

Vol.  VIII.— 1581-1591. 

Vol.       IX.— 1592-1603. 

Vol.         X.— 1603-1607. 

Vol.       XI.— 1607-1610. 

Vol.     XII.— 1610-1613. 

-1555-1556.  Vol.   XTII.— 161.3-1615. 

-1556-1557.  Vol.    XIV.— 161.5-1617. 

-1557-1558.  Vol.      XV.— 1617-1619. 


Vol.      I. 

—  1202-1509. 

{Out  of 
print.) 

Vol.    II. 

—  1509-1519. 

Vol.  III. 

—1520-1526. 

Vol.   IV.- 

—1527-1533. 

Vol.     V.- 

—  1534-1554. 

Vol.  VI.—  Part  I.- 
Vol.  VI.— Part  II.- 
Vol.   VI.— Part  III.- 


Calendar  of  entries  in  the  Papal  Registers,  illustrating  the  History 
of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland.  Edited,  by  W.  H.  Bliss  (Vols.  I. 
and  II.);  b>j  W.  H.  Bliss  and  C.  Johnson,  M.A.  (Vol.  III.); 
by  W.  H.  Bliss  and  J.  A.  Twemlow,  B.A.  (Vols.  IV  and  V.)  ; 
and  by  J.  A.  Twemlow,  B.A.  (Vols.  VI.-VIII.). 
Papal  Letters.      1893-1909. 


Vol.  I.— 1198-1304. 
Vol.  II.— 1305-1342. 
Vol.  III.— 1342-1362. 
Vol.    IV.— 1362-1404. 

Petitions  to  the  Pope. 
Vol.       I.— 1342-1419. 


Vol.  v.— 1396-1404. 

Vol.  VI.— 1404-1415. 

Vol.  VII.— 1417-1431. 

Vol.  VIII.— 1427-1447. 


1896. 


Guide  to  the  Various  Classes  of  Documents  in  the  Public 
Record  Office.  By  S.  R.  Scargill-Bird.  Third  Edition. 
1908.     Price  Is. 


CTS    ( 

DF    THE 

Privy  Council  of 

^]ngland 

New  Series.     Edited 

J. 

R.  Dasent,  M.A.      1890-1907.     Price 

10s.  each. 

Vol. 

L- 

-1542-1547. 

Vol. 

XVII. 

—  1588-1589 

Vol. 

II.- 

-1547-1550. 

Vol. 

XVIII.- 

—  1589-1590 

Vol. 

III.- 

-1550-1552. 

Vol. 

XIX. 

—1590. 

Vol. 

IV.- 

-1552-1554. 

Vol. 

XX. 

—1590-1591 

Vol. 

V.- 

-1554-1556. 

Vol. 

XXI. 

—1591. 

Vol. 

VI.- 

-1556-1558. 

Vol. 

XXIL- 

—1591-1592 

Vol. 

VII.- 

-1558-1570. 

Vol. 

XXIII. 

—1592. 

Vol. 

VIII.- 

-1571-1575. 

Vol. 

XXIV.- 

—1592-1593 

Vol. 

IX.- 

-1575-1577. 

Vol. 

XXV. 

—1595-1596 

Vol. 

X.- 

-1577-1578. 

Vol. 

XXVI. 

—  1596-1597. 

Vol. 

XI.- 

-1578-1580. 

Vol. 

XXVII. 

—1597. 

Vol. 

XII.- 

-1580-1581. 

Vol. 

XXVIII.- 

-1597-1598. 

Vol. 

XIII.- 

-1581-1582. 

Vol. 

XXIX.- 

—1598-1599. 

Vol. 

XIV.- 

-1586-1587. 

Vol. 

XXX. 

—1599-1600. 

Vol. 

XV.- 

-1587-1588. 

Vol. 

XXXI. 

-1600-1601. 

Vol. 

XVI.- 

-1588. 

Vol. 

XXXII.- 

-1601-1604. 

Acts  of  the  Privy  Council  of  England.  Colonial  Series. 
Edited  by  W.  L.  Grant,  M.A.,  and  J.  Munro,  M.A.  Vol.  I. — 
1613-1680.      1909.     Price  10s. 


Catalogue  of  Manuscripts  and  other  objects  in  the  Museum  of 
the  Public  Record  Office.  By  Sir  H.  C.  Maxwell  Lyte, 
K.C.B.,     Sixth   Edition.     1909.     Price    6d. 


f) 


In  the.  Press. 

Close  Rolls  ok  thic  kijcn  oi    IIicnjiy  III.  {Latin  Te.iL)     Vol.  IV. 

Calendar  of  thk  Closl:  Rolls  ok  thk  iikion  ok  Edwabd  1.     Vol.  Vf. 

Calendar  of  the   Close   Rolls   of  tke   beign   of  Edward    111. 
Vols.  XII.  and  XIII. 

Calendar  of  the  Fink  Rolls  of  the  reign  op  Edward  I. 

Calendar  of   the   Patent   Rolls   of   the  keign   of   Henry   III. 
Vol.  V. 

Calendar  of  the  Patent  Rolls  of  the  reign  of  Edward  III. 
Vols.  X.  and  XI. 

Calendar   of   the    Patent   Rolls   of   the   beign   of     Henry   V. 
Vol.  I. 

Calendar   of   the    Patent   Rolls   of   the   beign   of   Henby    VI. 
Vols.  V.  and  VI. 

Calendab  of  the  Charteb  Rolls.     Vol.  IV. 

Calendab  of  Inquisitions  Post  Mobtem.     Vol.  VI.  10-20  Edward  II. 

Calendar  of  Inquisitions  Post  Mobtem.   Second  Series.  Henby  VII. 
Vol.  II. 

Calendab  of  State  Papers,  relating  to  English  Affairs,  preserved 
in  tlie  Archives  of  Venice,  &c.     Vols.  XV.  and  XVI. 

Calendab  of  entries  in  the  Papal  Registebs,  illustrating  the  History 
of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland.      Papal  Letters.     Vol.  IX. 

Calendab  of  State  Papers,  Dobiestic  Series,  of  the  beign  of 
William  III.     Vol.   VII. 

Calendab   of    State    Papebs,    Fobeign    and    Domestic  ;      Henby 
VIII.     Vol.   XXI.      (Part  II.) 

Calendab  of  Treasuby  Books.     Vol.  V. 

Calendar  of  State  Papebs,  Fobeign  Sebies,  Elizabeth.     Vol.  XVII. 

Calendab  of  State  Papers,  Dobiestic  Series,  of  the  beign  of 
Chables  II.     Vol.  XIX. 

Calendab  of  State  Papebs,  Ireland,  Chables  II.     Vol.  IV. 

Calendab  of  State  Papebs,  Colonial  Sebies.     Vols.  XVIII.  and 
XIX. 

Catalogue  of  Ancient  Deeds.     Vol.  VI. 

Calendab  of  Lettebs,  Despatches,  and  State  Papebs,  belating 
TO  THE  Negotiations  between  England  and  Spain.     Vol.  IX. 

Inquisitions  and  Assessments  belating  to  Feudal  Aids.     Vol.  VI. 

Calendab  of  Miscellaneous  Inquisitions  (Chanceby).     Henby  III. 


In  Progress. 

Calendab     of     Inquisitions     Post     Mobtem.      Edward     I.     and 
Edward  III. 


10 

PUBLIC    RECORD    OFFICE. 


LISTS   AND   INDEXES. 

The  object  of  these  pubHcations  is  to  make  the  contents  of  the 
Pubhc  Record  Office  more  easily  available.  In  conjunction  with 
the  Calendars,  they  will,  in  course  of  time,  form  a  catalogue  of  the 
National  Archives,  as  explained  in  the  Fifty-first  Report  of  the 
Deputy  Keeper  of  the  Records  (page  10). 


No.    I.      Index    of    Ancient    Petitions    of    the    Chancery    and    the 
Exchequer.      1892.      9s.  6d. 

No.  II.     List  and  Index  of  Declared  Accounts  from  the  Pipe  Office 
and  the  Avidit  Office.      1893.      15s. 

No.  III.     List    of    volumes    of    State    Papers    (Great    Britain    and 
Ireland).     Part   I.     1547-1760.      1894.      6s.    6d. 

No.  IV.     List  of  Plea  Rolls.     1894.     7s.     {Under  revision). 

No.  V.     List  of  Ministers'  Accounts  preserved  in  the  Public  Record 
Office.     Part  I.      1894.      16s. 

No.   VI.     List  and  Index  of  Court  Rolls  preserved  in  the  Public 
Record  Office.     Part  I.      1896.      15s.      (Out  of  -print.) 

No.    VII.     Index    of    Chancery    Proceedings,    Series    II.     Vol.    I. 
1558-1579.      1896.      14s. 

No.    VIII.     List    of    Ministers'    Accounts.     Appendix,    Corrigenda, 
and  Index  to  Part  I.      1897.      3s. 

No.  IX.     List  of  Sheriffs  from  the  earliest  times  to  A.D.  1831.     1898. 
9s. 

No.  X.     List  of  proceedings  with  regard  to  Charitable  Uses.     1899. 

5s. 
No.  XL     List  of  Foreign  Accounts  enrolled  on  the  Great  Rolls  of 

the  Exchequer.      1900.      10s. 

No.  XII.     List  of  Early  Chancery  Proceedings.     Vol.  I.     1901. 
12s. 

No.    XIII.     List    of    Star-Chamber    Proceedings.     Vol.    I.     1485- 
1558.      1901.      10s. 

No.  XIV.     List  of  Records  of  the  Duchy  of  Lancaster.     1901.     5s. 
No.   XV.     List  of  Ancient  Correspondence  of  the  Chancery  and 
Exchequer.      1902.     12s. 

No.  XVI.     List  of  Early  Chancery  Proceedings.     Vol.  II.     1903. 
17s. 

No.  XVII.     List  of  Inquisitions  ad  Quod  Damnum.     Part  I.     1904. 
13s. 

No.  XVIII.     List  of  Admiralty  Records.     Vol.  I.     1904.     8s. 
No.  XIX.     List  of  State  Papers,  Foreign,  1577-1581.     1904.     4s. 
No.  XX.     List  of  Early  Chancery  Proceedings.     Vol.  III.     1906. 
15s. 

No.  XXL     List  of  Proceedings  in  the  Court  of  Requests.     Vol.  I. 

1906.      15s. 
No.    XXII.     List    of    Inquisitions    ad    quod    Damnum.     Part    11. 

1906.      14s. 
No.    XXIII.     Index    of    Inquisitions.     Vol.    I.     Henry    VIII.    to 

Philip  and  Mary.     1907.     10s. 
No.  XXIV.     Index  of  Chancery  Proceedings.     Series  II.     Vol.  II. 

1579-1621.     1908.     10s. 


11 

No.    XXV.     List   of   Rkntals   and   Surveys,   and  other   Analogous 
Documents.      1908.      14s. 

No.  XXVI.     Index  of  Inquisitions.     Vol.  II.  Elizabeth.     1908.     12s. 

No.  XXVII.     List  of  Chancery  Rolls.     1908.     10s. 

No.  XXVIII.     List  of  War  Office  Records.     Vol.  I.     1908.     8s.  6rf. 

No.    XXIX.     List    of    Early    Chancery    Proceedings.     Vol.    IV. 
1908.     15s. 

No.  XXX.     Index  of  Chancery  Proceedings.     Series  II.     Vol.  III. 
1621-1660.      1909.      12s. 

No.    XXXI.     Index    of   Inquisitions.     Vol.    III.     James    I.     1909. 
12s. 

No.   XXXIII.     Index  of   Inquisitions.     Vol.   IV.     Charles  I.  and 
later.     With   Appendices.      1909.      14s. 


In  the  Press. 

Index  to  the  Placita  de  Banco  (Plea  Rolls,  Common  Pleas). 
List  of  Ministers'  Accounts.     Part  II. 
Early  Chancery  Proceedings.     Vol.   V. 
Exchequer  Accounts. 
Colonial  Office  Records. 


In  Progress. 
List  of  Ancient  Accounts. 


1^ 


THE    CHRONICLES   AND    MEMORIALS 

OF    GREAT    BRITAIN    AND    IRELAND  DURING 

THE    MIDDLE  AGES. 


Royal  8vo.     Price  10s.  each  Volume  or  Part. 


1.  The  Chronicle  of  England,  by  John  Capgrave.     Edited  by  the 

Rev.  F.  C.  HiNGESTOlT,  M.A.     1858. 

2.  Chkonicon  Monasterii  de  Abingdon.     Vols.  I.  and  II.     Edited 

by  the  Rev.  J.  Stephenson,  M.A.      1858. 

3.  Lives    op    Edward    the    Confessor.     I. — La    Estoire    de     Seint 

Aedward  le  Rei.  II. — Vita  Beati  Edvardi  Regis  et  Confessoris. 
III. — Vita  ^duiiardi  Regis  qui  apud  Westmonasteriuni  I'equiescit. 
Edited  by  H.  R.  Luard,  M.A.      1858. 

4.  Monumenta  Franciscana. 

Vol.  I. — Thomas  de  Eccleston  de  Adventu  Fratrum  Minor um  in 
Angliam.  Adas  de  Marisco  E23istol8e.  Registrum  Fratrum 
Minorum  Londoniaj.     Edited  by  J.  S.  Brewer,  M.A.      1858. 

Vol.    II. — De    Adventu    Minorum  ;      re-edited    with    additions. 
Chronicle  of  the  Grey  Friars.     The  ancient  English  version  of 
the  Rule  of  St.  Francis.     Abbreviatio  Statutorum,    1451,  &c. 
Edited  by  R.  Howlett.     1882. 

5.  Fasciculi  Zizaniorum  Magistri  Johannis  Wyclif  cum  Tritico. 

Ascribed  to  Thomas  Netter,  of  Walden,  Provincial  of  the 
Carmelite  Order  in  England,  and  Confessor  to  King  Henry  the 
Fifth.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  W.  Shirley,  M.A.      1858. 

6.  The  Buik  of  the  Croniclis  of  Scotland  ;    or,  a  Metrical  Version 

of  the  History  of  Hector  Boece  ;  by  Williabi  Stewart.  Vols. 
I.-III.     Edited  by  W.  B.  Turnbull.      1858. 

7.  Johannis  Capgrave  Liber  de  Illustribus  Henricis.     Edited  by 

the  Rev.  F.  C.  Hingeston,  M.A.     1858. 

8.  HiSTORiA  Monasterii  S.  Augustini  Cantuariensis,  by  Thomas 

of  Elmham,  formerly  Monk  and  Treasurer  of  that  Fomidation. 
Edited  by  C.  Hard  wick,  M.A.     1858. 

9.  EuLOGiUM    (HiSTORiARUM    sivE   Temporis)  :     Chronicon   ab  Orbe 

condito  usque  ad  Annum  Domini  1366  ;  a  monacho  quodam 
Malmesbiriensi  exaratmii.  Vols.  I.-III.  Edited  by  F.  S.  Haydon, 
B.A.     1858-1863. 

10.  Memorials  of  Henry  the  Seventh  ;   Bernardi  Andreae  Tholosatis 

Vita  Regis  Henrici  Septimi  ;     necnon  alia  quaedam  ad  eundem 
Regem  Spectantia.     Edited  by  J.  Gairdner.     1858. 

11.  Memorials    of    Henry    the    Fifth.     I. — Vita    Henrici    Quinti, 

Roberto  Redmanno  auctore.     II. — Versus  Rhythmici  in  laudem 
I  Regis  Henrici  Quinti.     III. — Elmhami  Liber  Metricus  de  Henrico 

V.     Edited  by  C.  A.  Cole.      1858. 


12.  Mttnimionta    dTLnHAT.L.T;    TiONDONiRNSis  ;       Libor    AlIniR,    Libor 

CustuiimiMm,  ot  Libor  Horn,  in  nrchivis  dlildlialliu  as«(Mvati. 
Edited  bij  H.  T.  Riley,  M.A.      1859-18G2. 

Vol.  I.,  Liber  Albus. 

Vol.  TT.  (in  Two  Parts),  Liber  Custumarum. 

Vol.   111.,  Translation  of  the  Anglo-Norman  Passages  in   Liber 
Albns,    Glossaries,    Appendices,    and    Index. 

13.  Chronica   Johannts    dk    Oxenkdks.      Edited   by   Sir    H.    Ellis, 

K.H.      1859. 

14.  A   Collection   of   Political   Poems   and   Songs   relating   to 

English  Histouv,  frojni  the  accession  ok  Edward  111.  to  the 
REIGN  OF  Henry  VIIl.  Vols.  T.  and  11.  Edited  by  T.  Wright, 
M.A.      1859-1801. 

15.  Tlie   "  Opus  Tertium,"   "  Opus  Minus,"   &c.  of  Roger  Bacon. 

Edited  by  J.  S.  Brewer,  M.A.      1859. 

16.  BARTHOLOM.T5I      DE      COTTON,      MONACHI     NoRWICENSIS,      HiSTORIA 

Angltcana,  449-1298  ;  necnon  ejnsdem  Liber  de  Archiepiscopis 
et  Episcopis  Anglise.     Edited  by  H.  R.  Luard,  M.A.      1859. 

17.  Brut  y  Tywysogion  :     or,  Tlie  Chi'onicle  of  the  Princes  of  Wales* 

Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  Williams  ab  Ithel,  M.A.     1860. 

18.  A  Collection  of  Royal  and  Historical  Letters  during  the 
.    Reign  of  Henry  IV.     Vol.  I.      1399-1404.     Edited  by  the  Rev. 

F.   C.   Hingeston,  M.A.      1860. 

19.  The  Repressor  of  over  much  Blaming  of  the  Clergy.      By 

Reginald  Pfcock,  sometime  Bishop  of  Chichester.  Vols.  I. 
and  II.     Edited  by  the  Rev.   C.   Babinoton,   B.D.      18G0. 

20.  Annales  Cambrt.e.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  Williaims  ab  Ithel, 

M.A.      1860. 

21.  The  Works  of  Giraldus  Cambrensis.     Vols.  I. -IV.     Edited  by 

the  Rev.  J.  S.  Brewer,  M.A.  ;  Vols.  V.-VII.  (Vol.  V.  out  of 
'print).  Edited  by  tlie  Rev.  J.  F.  Dimock,  M.A.  ;  Vol.  VIIL 
Edited  by  G.  F.  Warner,  M.A.      186 1-1 891. 

22.  Letters  and  Papers  illustrative  of  the  Wars  of  the  English 

in  France  during  the  Reign  of  Henry  the  Sixth,  King  of 
England.  Vol.  I.,  and  Vol.  II.  (in  Two  Parts).  Edited  by  the 
Rev.   J.    Stevenson,   M.A.      1801-1864.    ' 

23.  The    Anglo-Saxon    Chronicle,    according    to    the    several 

Original  Authorities.  Vol.  I.,  Original  Texts.  Vol.  II., 
Translation.     Edited  and  translated  by  B.   Thorpe.      1861. 

24.  Letters  and  Papers  illustrative  of  the  reigns  of  Richard 

III.  and  Henry  VII.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited  by  J.  Gairdner. 
1861-1863. 

25.  Letters   of   Bishop   Grosseteste.     Edited  bij   the   Rev.   H.    R. 

Luard,  M.A.      1861. 

26.  Descriptive    Catalogue    of    Manuscripts    relating    to    the 

History  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland.  Vol.  I.  (in  Two 
Parts).  Anterior  to  the  Norman  Invasion  ;  \'ol.  II.,  1066-1200  ; 
Vol.  III.,  1200-1327.  Edited  by  Sir  T.  D.  Hardy,  D.CL. 
1862-187L 


14 

27.  Royal  and  other  Historical  Letters  illustrative  of  the 

REIGN  OF  Henry  III.     Vol.  I.      1216-1235.     Vol.  II.  1236-1272. 
Selected  and  edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  W.  Shirley,  D.D.      1862-1866. 

28.  Chronica  Monasterii  S.  Albani.    Edited  by  H.  T.  Riley,  M.A. 

1863-1876. 

1.  Thom^  Walsingham  Historia  Anglicana.     Vol,   I.,    1272- 

1381  ;     Vol.  II.,  1381-1422. 

2.  Willelmi  Rishanger  Chronica  et  Annales,    1259-1307. 

3.  JOHANNIS   DE   TrOKELOWE   ET   HeNRICI   DE   BlANEFORDE 

Chronica  ET  Annales  1259-1296  ;     1307-1324;     1392-1406. 

4.  Gesta  Abbatum  Monasterii  S.  Albani,  a  Thoma  Walsing- 

ham, REGNANTE  RiCARDO   SeCUNDO,   EJUSDEM  EcCLESI.^ 

Pr^centore,  compilata.  Vol.  I.,  793-1290 ;  Vol.  II., 
1290-1349;     Vol.  III.,   1349-1411. 

5.  Johannis  Amundesham,  monachi  Monasterii  S.  Albani,  ut 

viDETXJR,  Annales  ;    Vols.  I.  and  II. 

6.  Registra  quorundam  Abbatum  Monasterii  S.  Albani,  qui 

S^cuLO  xvino  Floruere.  Vol.  I.,  Registrum  Abbati^ 
Johannis  Whethamstede,  Abbatis  Monasterii  Sancti 
Albani,  iterum  suscept^  ;  Roberto  Blakeney,  capellano, 
quondam  adscriptum.  Vol.  II.,  Registra  Johannis 
Whethamstede,  Willelmi  Albon,  et  Willelmi  Waling- 
forde,  Abbatum  ]\Tonasterii  Sancti  Albani,  cum  Appen- 
DicE  continente  quasdam  epistolas  a  Johanne  Whetham- 
stede  CONSCRIPTAS. 

7.  Ypodigma    Neustri^    a    Thoma    Walsingham,     quondam 

MONACHO  Monasterii  S.  Albani,  conscriptum. 

29.  Chronicon     Abbatis     de     Evesham,     auctoribus     Domtnico 

Priore  Eveshami^  et  Thoma  de  Marleberge  Abbate,  a  fun- 
datione  ad  annum  1213,  una  cum  continuatione  ad  annum 
1418.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  D.  Macray.      1863. 

30.  RicARDi    DE    Cirencestria   Speculum   Historiale    de    Gestis 

Regum  Anglic.  Vol.  I.,  447-871.  Vol.  II.,  872-1066.  Edited 
by  J.  E.  B.  Mayor,  M.A.      1863-1869. 

31.  Year  Books  of  the  reigns  of  Edward  the  First  and  Edward 

THE  Third.  Years  20-21,  21-22  (Out  of  Print),  30-31,  32-33,  and 
33-35  Edw.  I.  ;  and  11-12  Edw.  III.  Edited  and  translated  by 
A.  J.  HORWOOD.  Years  12-13,  13-14,  14,  14-15,  15,  16  (in  two 
parts),  17,  17-18,  18,  18-19,  19,  and  20  (First  Part),  Edward  III. 
Edited  and  translated  by  L.  O.  Pike,  M.A.      1863-1908. 

32.  Narratives  of  the  Expulsion  of  the  English  from  Normandy, 

1449-1450. — Robertu3  Blondelli  de  Reduetione  Normanniae  :  Le 
Recouvrement  de  Normendie,  par  Berry,  Herault  du  Roy  :  Con- 
ferences between  the  Ambassadors  of  France  and  England. 
Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  Stevenson,  M.A.      1863. 

33.  Historia  et  Cartularium  Monasterii  S.  Petri  Gloucestri^. 

Vols.  I.-III.     Edited  by  W.  H.  Hart.      1863-1867. 

34.  Alexandri    Neckam    de    Naturis    Rerum    libri    duo  ;      with 

Neckam's  Poem,  De  Laudibus  Divin^e  Sapienti^.  Edited  by 
T.  Wright,  M.A.     1863. 


15 

35.  LrKCHDOMS,  WoTlTOtTNNINO,  AND  RtARCTIAT'T  OF  "RaRT-Y  'RNfiLANn  ; 

boiiig  a  rollection  of  DocuiiKMits  ilhistiatiiig  tlui  History  of 
Science  in  this  Coinitry  before  the  Nornian  Conquest.  Vols. 
I.-III.  (Vol.  III.  Out  of  print.)  Collected  and  edited  by  the 
Rev.  O.  CooKAYNR,  M.A.      1864-1 806. 

36.  Annalrs  Monastici.     Edited  by  the  Rev.   H.   R.   Luard,  M.A. 

1804-1869. 

Vol.  1.  Annales  de  Margan,  1000-1232  ;  Annales  de  Theoke.s- 
beria,   1000-1203  ;     Annales  de  Burton,  1004-1203. 

Vol.  IT.  Annales  Monasterii  de  Wintonia,  519-1277  ;  Annales 
Monasterii   de   Waverleia,    1-1291. 

Vol.  III.  Annales  Prioratus  de  Dunstaplia,  1-1297.  Annales 
Monasterii  de  Bermnndeseia,   1042-1432. 

Vol.  IV.  Annales  Monasterii  de  Oseneia,  1016-1347  ;  Chronicon 
vulgo  dictum  Chronicon  Thonite  Wykes,  1066-1289  ;  Annales 
Prioratus  de  Wigornia,   1-1377.     {Out  of  print.) 

Vol.  V.     Index  and  Glossary. 

37.  Magna  Vita  S.  Hugonis  Episcopi  Lincolniensis.     Edited  by  the 

Rev.  J.  F.  DiMOCK,  M.A.      1804. 

38.  Chronicles  and  Memorials   of  the   Reign  of  Richard  the 

First.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  Stubbs,  M.A.      1804-1805. 
Vol.  I.     Itinerarium  Peregrinorum  et  Gesta  Regis  RiCARDi. 
Vol.   II.     Epistol.e  Cantuarienses  ;    the  Letters  of  the  Prior 
and  Convent  of  Christ  Church,  Canterbury  ;     1187  to  1199. 

39.  Recueil  des  Croniques  et  anchiennes  Istories  de  la  Grant 

Bretaigne  a  present  nomme  Engleterre,  par  Jehan  de 
VVaurin.  Vol.  I.,  Albina  to  088.  Vol.  II.,  1399-1422.  Vol. 
III.,  1422-1431.  Edited  by  W.  Hardy.  1864-1879;  Vol.  IV., 
1431-1447.  Vol.  v.,  1447-1471.  Edited  by  Sir  W.  Hardy  and 
E.  L.  C.  P.  Hardy.      1884-1891. 

40.  A  Collection  of  the  Chronicles  and  Ancient  Histories  of 

Great  Britain,  now  called  England,  bj?  John  de  Waurin. 
Vol.   I.,   Albina  to   088.      Vol.   II.,    1399-1422.      Vol.   III.,    1422- 

1431.  (Translations  of  the  preceding  Vols.  I.,  II.,  and  III. 
Edited  and  translated  by  Sir  W.  Hardy  and  E.  L.  C.  P.  Hardy. 

1864-1891. 

41.  Polychronicon  Ranulphi  Higden,  with  Trevisa's  Translation. 

Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  C.  Babington.  B.D.  ;  Vols. 
III.-IX.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  R.  Lumby,  D.D.      1865-1886. 

42.  Le  Livere  de  Reis  de  Brittanie  e  Le  Livere  de  Reis    de 

Engletere.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  Glover,  M.A.      1865. 

43.  Chronic.'V  Monasterii  de  Melsa  ab  anno  1150  usque  ad  annum 

1406.  Vols.  I.-III.     Edited  by  E.  A.  Bond.      1866-1868. 

44.  Matth^i    Parisiensis    Historia    Anglorum,    sive    ut    vulgo 

DiciTUR  Historia  Minor.  Vols.  I.-III.  1067-1253.  Edited  by 
Sir  F.  Madden.      1866-1809. 

45.  Liber  Monasterii  de  Hyda  :     a  Chronicle  and  Chartulary 

of  Hyde  Abbey,  Winchester,  455-1023.  Edited  by  E.  Edwards. 
1800. 


16 

46.  Chbonicon  Scotorum.     A  Chronicle  of  Irish  Affairs,  from 

the  earliest  times  to  1135  ;  and  Supplement,  containing  the 
events  from  1141  to  1150.  Edited,  with  Translation,  by  W.  M. 
Hennessy.      1866. 

47.  The  Chronicle  of  Pierre  de  Langtoft  in  French  Verse,  from 

THE  EARLIEST  PERIOD  TO  THE  DEATH  OF  EdWARD  I.       Vols.  I.  and 

II.  Edited  bij  T.  Wright,  M.A.      1866-1868. 

48.  The  War  of  the  Gaedhil  with  the  Gaill,  or  The  Invasions  of 

Ireland  by  the  Danes  and  other  Norsemen.  Edited,  tvith  a 
Translation,  by  the  Rev.  J.  H.  Todd,  D.D.      1867. 

49.  Gesta  Regis  Henrici  Secundi  Benedicti  Abbatis.     Chronicle 

OF  the  Reigns  of  Henry  II.  and  Richard  I.,  1169-1192,  known 
under  the  name  of  Benedict  of  Peterborough.  Vols.  I.  and  II. 
(Vol.  IT.  Out  of  print.)  Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  Stubbs,  M.A. 
1867. 

50.  Munimenta  Academica,  or  Documents  illltstrative  of  Acade- 

mical Life  and  Studies  at  Oxford  (in  Two  Parts).  Edited  by 
the  Rev.  H.  Anstey,  M.A.      1868. 

51.  Chronica  Magistri  Rogeri  de  Houedene.     Vols.  I. -IV.     Edited 

by  the  Rev.  W.  Stubbs,  M.A.      1868-1871. 

52.  WiLLELMi    Malmesbirtensis    Monachi    de  Gestis  Pontificum 

Anglorum  Libri  Quinque.  Edited  by  N.  E.  S.  A.  Hamilton. 
1870. 

5.3.  Historic  and  Municipal  Documents  of  Ireland,  from  the 
archives  of  the  City  of  Dublin,  &c.  1172-1320.  Edited  by 
J.  T.  Gilbert.     1870. 

54.  The   Annals   of   Loch   Cr.      A   Chronicle    of   Irish   Affairs, 

1014-1590.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited,  with  a  Translation,  by 
W.  M.  Hennessy.     1871.     [Ozit  of  print.) 

55.  Monumenta  Juridica.     The  Black  Book  of  the  Admiralty, 

WITH  Appendices.  Vols.  I. -IV.  (Vols.  I.  and  IV.  Out  of  print.) 
Edited  by  Sir  T.  Twiss,  Q.C.,  D.C.L.      1871-1876. 

56.  Memorials  of  the  reign  of  Henry  VI.  : — Official  Correspon- 

dence OF  Thomas  Bekynton,  Secretary  to  Henry  VI.,  and 
Bishop  of  Bath  and  Wei,ls.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  G.  Williams, 
B.D.     Vols.  L  and  II.      1872. 

57.  Matthjei  Parisiensis,  monachi  Sancti  Albani,  Chronica  Majora 

Vol.  I.     The  Creation  to  A.D.  1066.     Vol.  II.  1067  to  1216.      Vol. 

III.  1216  to  1239.  {Out  of  print.)  Vol.  IV.  1240  to  1247.  Vol.  V. 
1248  to  1259.  [Out  of  print.)  Vol.  VI.  Additamenta.  Vol. 
VII.  Index.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  H.  R.  Luard,  D.D.      1872-1884. 

58.  Memoriale  Fratris  Walteri  de  Coventria. — The  Historical 

Collections  of  Walter  of  Coventry.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited 
by  the  Rev.  W.  Stubbs,  M.A.      1872-1873. 

59.  The  Anglo-Latin  Satirical  Poets  and  Epigrammatists  of  the 

Twelfth  Century.  Vols.  I.  and  IT.  Collected  and  edited  by 
T.  Wright,  M.A.      1872.     (Vol.  II.  Out  of  print.) 


17 

60.  Materials  for  a  History  of  the  Reion  of  Henry  VIT.,  from 

ORIGINAL  Documents  preserved  in  thr  Public  Record  Offick. 
Vols.  I.  and  II.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  Campbell,  M.A.     1873- 

1877. 

61.  Historical  Papers  and  Letters  from  the  Northern  Reots- 

ters.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  Raine,  M.A.      187.3. 

62.  Registrum  Palatinum  Dunelmense.     The  Register  of  Richard 

DE  Kellawe,  Lord  Palatine  and  Bishop  of  Durham  ;  1311- 
1316.     Vols.  I.-IV.     Edited  by  Sir  T.  D.  Hardy,  D.C.L.       1873- 

1878. 

63.  Memorials    of    St.    Dunstan,    Archbishop    of    Canterbury. 

Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  Stubbs,  M.A.      1874.     {Out  of  print.) 

64.  Chronicon  Anglic,  ab  anno  domini  1328  usque  ad  annum  1388, 

AucTORE  Monacho  Quodam  Sancti  Albani.  Edited  by  E.  M. 
Thompson.     1874. 

65.  Thomas  Saga  Erkibyskups.     A  Life  op  Archbishop  Thomas 

Becket,  in  Icelandic.  Vols.  I.  and  IT.  Edited,  with  English 
Translation,  Notes,  and  Glossary,  by  M.  Eirikr  Magnusson,  M.A. 
1875-1883. 

66.  Radulphi  de  Coggeshall  Chronicon  Anglicanum.     Edited  by 

the  Rev.  J.  Stevenson,  M.A.     1875. 

67.  Materials  for  the  History  of  Thomas  Becket,  Archbishop  of 

Canterbury.  Vols.  I. -VI.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  C.  Robertson, 
M.A.  1875-1883  ;  Vol.  VII.  Edited  by  J.  B.  Sheppard,  LL.D. 
1885. 

68.  Radulfi  de  Diceto,  Decani  Lundoniensis,  Opera  Historica. 

The  Historical  Works  of  Master  Ralph  de  Diceto,  Dean 
OF  London.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  Stubbs, 
M.A.      1876. 

69.  Roll  of  the  Proceedings  of  the  King's  Council  in  Ireland, 

FOR  A  portion  OF  THE  16tH  YEAR  OF  THE  REIGN  OF  RiCHARD  II. 

1392-93.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  Graves,  B.A.      1877. 

70.  Henrici  de  Bracton  de  Legibus  et  Consuetudinibus  Anglic 

LiBRi  Quinque  in  varios  tractatus  distincti.  Vols.  I.-VT. 
(Vols.  II.-IV.  Out  of  print.)  Edited  by  Sir  T.Twiss,  Q.CB.C.L. 
1878-1883. 

71.  The  Historians  op  the  Church  of  York  and  its  Archbishops. 

Vols.  I.-III.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  Raine,  M.A.      1879-1894. 

72.  Registrum  Malmesburiense.     The  Register  of  Malmesbury 

Abbey,  preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office.  Vols.  I. 
and  II.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  S.  Brewer,  M.A.,  and  C.  T. 
Martin,  B.A.      1879-1880. 

73.  Historical  WORKS  OF  Gervase  OF  Canterbury.     Vols.  I.  and  II. 

Editsd  by  the  Rev.  W.  Stubbs,  D.D.      1879-1880. 

74.  Henrici  Archidiaconi  Huntendunensis  Historia  Anglorum. 

The  History  of  the  English,  by  Henry,  Archdeacon  op 
Huntingdon,  from  a.d.  55  to  a.d.  1154,  in  Eight  Books.  Edited 
by  T.  Arnold,  M.A.     1879. 

B 


IS 

75.  The  Historical,  Works  of  Symeon  of  Durham.     Vols.  I.  and  II. 

Edited  hy  T.  Arnold,  M.A.      1882-1885. 

76.  Chronicle  of  the  Reigns  of  Edward  I.  and  Edward  II.     Vols. 

I.  and  II.     Edited  hy  the  Rev.  W.  Stubbs,  D.D.      1882-1883. 

77.  Registrum  Epistolartjm  Fratris  Johannis   Peckham,   Archi- 

EPiscopi  Canttjariensis.  Vols.  I. -III.  Edited  hy  C.  T.  Martin, 
B.A.      1882-1886. 

78.  Register  of  S.  Osmund.     Vols.  I.  and  II.     Edited  hy  the  Rev. 

W.  H.  Rich  Jones,  M.A.      1883-1884. 

79.  Chartulary  of  the  Abbey  of  Ramsey.     Vols.   I. -III.     Edited 

hy  W.  H.  Hart,  and  the  Rev.  P.  A.  Lyons.      1884-1893. 

80.  Chartularies  of  St.  Mary's  Abbey,  Dublin,  with  the  Register 

OF  its  house  at  Dunbrody,  county  of  Wexford,  and  Annals 
OF  Ireland,  1162-1370.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited  hy  J.  T. 
Gilbert.      1884-1885. 

81.  Eadmeri  Historia  Novorum  in  Anglia  et  opuscula  duo  de 

vita  Sancti  Anselmi  et  quibusdam  miraculis  ejus.  Edited  hy 
the  Rev.  M.  Rule,  M.A.      1884. 

82.  Chronicles  of  the  Reigns  of  Stephen,  Henry  II.,  and  Richard 

I.     Vols.   I. -IV.     Edited  hy  R.   Howlett.      1884-1889. 

83.  Chronicle  of  the  Abbey  of  Ramsey.      Edited  hy  the  Rev.  W.  D. 

Macray,  M.A.      1886. 

84.  Chronica   Rogeri   de   Wendover,   sive   Flores   Historiarum. 

Vols.  I. -III.     Edited  hy  H.  G.  Hewlett.      1886-1889. 

85.  The    Letter    Books    of   the    Monastery    of   Christ   Church, 

Canterbury.  Vols.  I. -III.  Edited  hy  the  Rev.  J.  B.  Sheppard, 
LL.D.      1887-1889. 

86.  The  Metrical  Chronicle  of  Robert  of  Gloucester.     Edited 

hy  W.  A.  Wright,  M.A.     Parts  I.  and  II.       1887. 

87.  Chronicle  of  Robert  of  Brunne.     Edited  hy  F.  J.  Furnivall, 

M.A.      Parts  I.   and   II.      1887. 

88.  Icelandic  Sagas  and  other  Historical  Documents  relating  to 

the  Settlements  and  Descents  of  the  Northmen  on  the  British 
Isles.  Vol.  I.  Orkneyinga  Saga,  and  Magnus  Saga.  Vol.  II. 
Hakonar  Saga,  and  Magnus  Saga.  Edited  hy  Gudbrand  Vig- 
FUSSON,  M.A.  1887.  Vols.  III.  and  IV.  Translations  of  the 
above  by  Sir  G.  W.  Dasent,  D.C.L.      1894. 

89.  The    Tripartite    Life    of    Patrick,    with     other     documents 

relating  to  that  Saint.  Edited  hy  W.  Stokes,  LL.D.,  D.C.L. 
Parts  I.  and  II.      1887. 

90.  Willelmi  Malmesbiriensis  Monachi  de  Gestis  Regum  Anqlo- 

rum  libri  v.  ;  et  Histori.e  Novella,  libri  III.  Edited  by 
W.  Stubbs,  D.D.,  Bishop  of  Oxford.  Vols.  I.  and  11.  1887- 
1889. 

91.  Lestorie     des     Engles    solum    Geffrei    Gaimar.       Edited    by 

Sir  T.  D.  Hardy,  D.C.L.  ;  continued  and  translated  by  C.  T. 
Martin,  B.A.     Vols.  I.  and  II.      1888-1889. 


10 

92.  Chroniclr  of  Henry  Kntohton,  Canon  of  I.oioostor.     Vols.    F. 

and  n.      Edited  by  the  Kcv.  J.  R.  I.i'muy,  D.I).      1889-1895. 

93.  Chronicle  of  Adam  Murimuth.  with  tlie  Chrontolr  of  Robert 

OF  AvESBtTRY.      Edited  by  E.  M.  Thompson,  I.F>.1).      1889. 

94.  Register  of  the  Abbey  of  St.  Thomas  the  Martyr,  Dubi-in. 

Edited  by  J.  T.  Gilbert.      1889. 

95.  Flores  Historiarum.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  H.  R.  Luard,  D.D. 

Vol.  I.  The  Creaton  to  a.d.  1066.  Vol.  IT.  1067-1264.  Vol. 
in.    1265-1326.      1890. 

96.  Memorials    of   St.    Edmund's    Abbey.     Edited   by   T.    Arnold, 

M.A.     Vols.   I.-III.      1890-1896. 

97.  Charters  and  Documents  illustrating  the  history  of  the 

Cathedral  and  City  of  Sarum,  1 100- 1 300 ;  forming  an  Appendix 
to  the  Register  of  S.  Osmund.  Selected  by  the  Rev.  W.  H. 
Rich  Jones,  M.A.,  and  edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  U.  Macray,  M.A. 
1891. 

98.  Memoranda  de  Parliamento,   33  Edward  I.      1305.     Edited  bi/ 

F.  W.  Maitland,  M.A.      1893. 

99.  The  Red  Book  of  the  Exchequer.     Edited  by  H.  Hall.     Parts 

I.-III.      1896. 


20 

PUBLICATIONS 
OF  THE  EECOED  COMMISSIONERS.  &c. 

In  boards  or  cloth.      Volumes  not  mentioned  in  this  list  are  out  of  print. 

BoTULOBTTM  Originalium  IN  CuRiA  ScACCARii  Abbreviatio.     Henry  III. — 

Edw.  III.     £:d?:ted  63/ H.  Playford  (1805-1810).     2  Vols,  folio.    'l2s.  6d. 

each. 
Calendarittm    Inqthsitionum    Post    Mortem    sive    Escaetarum.     Edited 

by  J,  Caley  and  J.   Bayley  (1806-1828).     Folio.     Vols.    1,  2,  3,  21s. 

each  ;    Vol.  4,  24s. 
NoNARnjM  Inqttisitiones  in  Curia  Scaccakii.     Edited  by  G.  Vanderzee 

(1807).     Folio.     18s. 
LiBRORUM  Manuscriptorum  Bibliothec^  Harleian^  Catalogtts.     4  Vols. 

Edited  by  the  Rev.  T.  H.  Hornb  (1812).     Folio.      18s.  each. 
Abbreviatio  Placitorum.   Richard  I. — Edward  II.    Edited  by  the  Right  Hon. 

G.  Rose  and  W.  Illingworth  (1811).     Foho.      18s. 
Liber  Censualis  vocati  Domesday-Book.     Foho.  Vols.  1  and  2  (1783),  25s. 

each.     Vol.  3,  Indices,  and  Vol.  4,  Additamenta  ex  Codic.  Antiqviiss  (1816). 

Edited  by   Sir  H.   Ellis.     21s.   each. 
Statutes  of  the  Realm.     Edited  by  Sir  T.  E.  Tomlins,  J.  Raithby,  J.  Caley 

and  W.  Elliott  (1824-1828).     Foho.     Vols.  2,  3,  4  (Part  II),  and  5  to 

9,  31s.   Gd.  each;    Vols.    10  and  11,  Indices.      30s.  each. 
Valor  Ecclesiasticus,   temp.   Hen.   VIII.,    Anctoritate    Regia    institutus. 

Edited  by  J.  Caley  and  the  Rev.  J.  Hunter  (1825-1834).     Vols  1  to  6, 

folio.      25s.  each.     The  Introduction,  separately,  8vo.      2s.   6d. 
Rotuli  Scotia  in  Turri  Londinensi  et  in  Domo  Capitulari  Westmonas- 

TERiENSi  ASSERVATi,  19  Edw.  I. — Hen.  VIII.    Edited  by  D.  Macpherson, 

J.  Caley,  W.  Illingworth,  and  the  Rev.  T.  H.  Horne  (1814-1818). 

2  Vols,  folio.     42s. 
Fcedera,  Conventiones,  Litter-e,  &c.  ;  or  Rymer's  Fcedera.  New  Edition. 

Foho.     Edited  by  J.  Caley  and  F.  Holbrooke  (1869).    Vol.  3,  Part  II., 

1361-1377,  21s.  ;    Vol.  4,  1377-1383,  6,«. 
DucATus    Lancastri.^   Calendarium   Inquisitionum   post   Mortem,    &c., 

Edw.  I. — Car.  I.     Edited  by  R.  J.  Harper,  J.  Caley,  and  W.  Minchin 

(1827-1834).     Foho.     Vols.  1  and  2,  31s.  6d.  each  ;   Vol.  3,  21s. 
Calendars  of  the  Proceedings  in  Chancery,  Elizabeth  ;    with  Examples 

of  Proceedings  from  Ric.  II.     Edited  by  J.  Baylby  (1832).     3  Vols,  folio. 

21s.  each. 
Parliament.ary  Writs  and  Writs  of  Military  Summons,  with  Records  and 

Muniments  relating  to  Suit  and  Service  to  Parliament,  etc.     Edw.   II. 

Edited  by  Sir  F.  Palgrave  (1830-1834).     Folio.     Vol.  1,  21s.  ;    Vol.  2, 

Divisions,  1,  2,  21s.  each,  and  3,  42s. 
Rotuli  Litterarum  Clausarum  in  Turri  Londinensi  asservati.     2  Vols. 

foho.     Edited  by  T.  D.  Hardy  (1833-1844).     Vol.    1,   1204-1214,  63s.; 

Vol.  2,  1224-121,7,  18<j. 
Proceedings    and    Ordinances    of    the    Privy    Council    of    England. 

10  Ric.  II.— 33  Hen.  VIII.     Edited  by  Sir  N.  H.  Nicolas  (1834-  1837). 

7  Vols.  8vo.      14s.  each.     (Vols.   1-3  out  of  print.) 
Rotuli  Litterarum   Patentium  in  Turri   Lond.   asservati.    1201-1216. 

Edited  by  T.  D.  Hardy  (1835).      1  Vol.  folio,  31s.  6^.     {Out  of  print.) 

The  Introduction,  separately,  8vo.     9s. 
Rotuli  Normanni.e  in  Turri  Lond.  asservati.     1200-1205  ;    1417-1418. 

Edited  by  T.  D.  Hardy  (1835).     8vo.      12s.  6d. 
Rotuli  de  Oblatis  et  Finibus  in  Tueri  Lond.  asservati,  temp.  Regis 

Johannis.     Edited  by  T.  D.  Hardy  (1835).     8vo.      18s. 
ExcERPTA  e  Rotulis  Finium  IN  TuRRi  LoNDiNENSi  ASSERVATI.     Henry  III. 

1216-1272.      Edited    by   C.    Roberts    (1835-1836).      8vo.      Vol.  i,  14s. 

Vol.  2,  18s. 
Fines,  sive  Pedes  Finium  :     sive  Finales  Concordl^e  in  Curia  Domini 

Regis.       7  Richard  1.— 16  John,   1195-1214.       Edited  by  the  Rev.  J. 

Hunter  (1835-1844).     In  Counties.     8vo.     Vol.  1,  8s.  6d.,  Vol.  2,  2s.  Gd. 
Ancient  Kalendars  and  Inventories  of  the  Treasury  of  His  Majesty's 

Exchequ:er  ;   with  Documents  illustrating  its  History.     Edited  by  Sir  F. 

Palgrave  (1836).     3  Vols.  8vo.     42s. 
Documents  and  Records  illustrating  the  History  of  Scotland,  and  Trans- 
actions between  Scotland  and  England  ;    preserved  in  the  Treasury  of 

Her   Majesty's   Exchequer.      Edited  by  Sir  F.  Palgrave  (1837).     8vo. 

18s. 


21 

RoTULi  Chartakum  in  Turri  LoNDiNENSi  ASSERVATi.  1199-1210.  Edited 
by  T.  D.  Hardy  (1837).     Folio.     30s. 

Report  of  the  Proceedings  of  the  Record  Commissioners,  1831-1837. 
Folio  (1837).     8s. 

Ancient  Laws  and  Institutes  of  England  ;  comprising  Laws  enacted  under 
the  Anglo-Saxon  Kings,  with  translation  ot  the  Saxon  ;  the  Laws  called 
Edward  the  Confessor's  ;  the  Laws  of  VVilham  the  Conqueror,  and  those 
ascribed  to  Henry  I.  ;  Monunionla  Ecclcsiastica  Anglicana,  from  7th  to 
10th  century  ;  and  Ancient  Latin  Version  of  the  Anglo-Saxon  Laws. 
Edited  by  B.  Thorpe.  1  Vol.  foho,  408.  2  Vols.  8vo.,  30a.  (Vol.  1 
is  out  of  print.) 

Ancient  Laws  and  Institutes  of  Wales  ;  comprising  Laws  supposed  to  be 
enacted  by  Howel  the  Good,  modified  by  Regulations  prior  to  the  Conquest 
by  Edward  I.  ;  and  anomalous  Laws,  principally  of  Institutions  wliich 
continued  in  force.  With  translation.  Also,  Latin  Transcripts,  con- 
taining Digests  of  Laws,  principally  of  the  Dimetian  Code.  Edited  by 
Aneurin  Owen  (1841).      1  Vol.  folio.     44s.     2  Vols.  Svo,,  368. 

RoTULi  DE  Liberate  ac  de  Misis  et  Pr^stitis,  Regnante  Johanne.  Edited 
by  T.  D.  Hardy  (1844).     Svo.     Gs. 

Documents  Illustrative  of  English  History  in  the  13th  and  14th  centuries, 
from  the  Records  of  the  Queen's  Remembrancer  in  the  Exchequer.  Edited 
by  H.  Cole  (1844).     Foho.     45s.  (id. 

Modus  Tenendi  Parliawentum.  An  Ancient  Treatise  on  the  Mode  of  holding 
the  Parhament  in  England.  Edited  by  T.  D.  Hardy  (1846).  Svo. 
28.  6d. 

Registrum  Magni  Sigilli  Regum  Scotorum  in  Arcliivis  PubUcis  asservatum. 
Vol.  I.  1306-1424.  {For  continuation  see  page  35.)  Edited  by  T.  Thomson 
(1814).     Foho.     10s.  6d. 

Acts  of  the  Parliaments  of  Scotland.  Edited  by  T.  Thomson  and  C.  Innes 
(1814-1875).  Foho.  Vol.  1,  42s.;  Vols.  2,  3.  and  4,  10s.  6d.  each; 
Vols.  5  and  6  (in  three  Parts),  21s.  each  Part ;  Vols.  7,  8,  9,  10,  and  11, 
10s.  Qd.  each ;  Vol.  12  (Index),  63s.  Or,  12  Vols,  in  13,  12^.  12s. 
(A  Revised  Edition  of  the  Acts  of  the  Parliaments  of  Scotland,  1424-1707, 
was  published  in  1908  for  the  Statute  Law  Committee.     1  Vol.     10s.) 

Acts  of  the  Lords  Auditors  of  Causes  and  Complaints  (Acta  Dominorum 
Auditorum).  1466-1494.  Edited  by  T.  Thomson  (1839).  Foho. 
10s.  6d. 

Acts  of  the  Lords  of  Council  in  Civil  Causes  (Acta  Dominorum  Concilii). 
1478-1495.     Edited  by  T.  Thomson  (1839).     Folio.     10s.   6d. 

Issue  Roll  of  Thomas  de  Brantingham,  Bishop  of  Exeter,  Lord  High 
Treasurer,  containing  Payments  out  ot  the  Revenue,  44  Edw.  III.,  1370. 
Edited  by  F.  Devon.     8vo.,  25s. 

Issues  of  the  Exchequer,  Henry  III. — Henry  VI.  ;  from  the  Pell  Records. 
Edited  by  F.  Devon.     4to.,  40s.     Or,  8vo.  30s. 

Issues  of  the  Exchequer,  James  I.  ;  from  the  Pell  Records.  Edited  by 
F.  Devon  (1836).     4to.,  30s.     Or,  Svo.  21s. 

Handbook  to  the  Public  Records.  By  F.  S.  Thomas  (1853).  Svo. 
12s. 

Historical  Notes  relative  to  the  History  of  England.  Henry  VIII. — 
Anne,  1509-1714.  A  Book  of  Reference  for  ascertaining  the  Dates  of 
Events.     By  l .  S.  Thomas  (1856).     3  Vols.  Svo.     408. 

State  Papers,  during  the  reign  of  Henry  the  Eighth  :     with  Indices  of 
Persons  and  Places.     J 1  Vols.  4to.  (1830-1852).     10s.  6i.  each. 
Vol.   I. — Domestic   Correspondence. 
Vols    II.  and  III. — Correspondence  relating  to  Ireland. 
Vols.  IV.  and  V. — Correspondence  relating  to  Scotland. 
Vols.  VI.  to  XL — Correspondence  between  England  and  Foreign  Courts. 

MoNUMENTA  HiSTORiCA  Britannica.  Edited  by  H.  Petrie,  the  Rev.  J. 
Sharpe,  and  T.  D.  Hardy  (1848).     Foho.     42s. 


REPORTS  ON  THE  UTRECHT  PSALTER. 

The  Athanasian  Creed  in  Connexion  with  the  Utrecht  Psalter  ;  being 
a  Report  to  the  Right  Honourable  Lord  RomiUy,  Master  of  the  Rolls, 
on  a  Manuscript  in  the  University  of  Utrecht,  by  Sir  T.  D.  Hardy,  D.C.L. 
1872.     4to.     2  facsuniles.     20s. 

Further  Report  on  the  Utrecht  Psalter  ;  in  answer  to  the  Eighth  Report 
made  to  the  Trustees  of  the  British  Museum,  and  edited  by  the  Dean  of 
Westminster.     By  Sir  T.  D.  Hardy,  D.C.L.  1874.     4to.     10s. 


22 


WORKS    PUBLISHED    IN    PHOTOZINCOGRAPHY. 


Domesday  Book,  or  the  Gkeat  Survey  of  England  of  William  the 
Conqueror,  1086  ;  fac-simile  of  the  Part  relating  to  each  county, 
separately  (with  a  few  exceptions  of  double  counties).  Photo- 
zincographed  at  the  Ordnance  Survey  Office,  Southampton. 

Dome.sday  Book  was  printed  verbatim  et  literatim  during  the  18th 
centurv,  in  consequence  of  an  address  of  the  House  of  Lords  to 
King  George  III.  in  1767.  It  was  not,  however,  commenred  until 
1773,  and  was  completed  early  in  1783.  In  1860,  Her  Majesty's 
Government,  with  the  concurrence  oi  the  Master  oi  the  Rolls, 
determined  to  apply  the  art  of  photozincography  in  the  pro- 
duction of  a  facsimile  of  Domesday  Book. 


In  Great  Domesday  Book. 

Price. 

J 

Price. 

Bedfordshire           _         _         _ 

8/0 

Middlesex     _         -         _         _ 

8/0 

Berkshire      _         _         _         _ 

8/0 

Northamptonshire           -         - 

8/0 

Buckingham           _         _         _ 

8/0 

Nottinghamshire   -         -         - 

10/0 

Cambridge    -         -         -         - 

10/0 

Oxfordshire  -        -         -         - 

8/0 

Cheshire  and  Lancashire 

8/0 

Rutlandshire      {see     Leicester- 

Cornwall       _         _         _         _ 

8/0 

shire)      -         -         -         - 

Derbyshire    -         -         -         - 

8/0 

Shropshire        ] 

Devonshire   -         -         -         - 

10/0 

Somersetshire  y  (out  of  print) 

Dorsetshire  -         -         -         - 

8/0 

Staffordshire     j 

Gloucestershire  {out  of  print) 

Surrey           _         _        _         _ 

8/0 

Hampshire    -         -         -         - 

10/0 

Sussex            _         _         _         _ 

10/0 

Herefordshire         _         _         _ 

8/0 

Warwickshire  (out  of  print) 

Hertfordshire          _         _         _ 

10/0 

Wiltshire       _         -         -         _ 

10/0 

Huntingdonshire    -         ~         - 

8/0 

Worcestershire       _         _         _ 

8/0 

Kent  (out  of  print) 

Yorkshire  (out  of  print) 

Lancashire  (see  Cheshire  and 

Lancashire)     -         -         - 

In  Little  Domesday  Book. 

Leicestershire     and     Rutland- 

Essex -         -         -         -         - 

16/0 

shire       _         _         _         _ 

8/0 

Norfolk          _         -         -         - 

23/0 

Lincolnshire            _         _         _ 

21/0 

Suffolk           _         _         _         _ 

22/0 

Translation  of  the  Domesday  Book  : — Cornwall,  5/0. 

Fac-similes  op  National  Manuscripts,  from  W^illiam  the  Con- 
queror to  Queen  Anne,  selected  under  the  direction  of  the 
Master  of  the  Rolls  and  Photozincographed  by  the  Ordnance 
Survey,  and  edited  by  W.  Basevi  Sanders.  Price,  each  Part, 
with  translations  and  notes,  16s. 

Part  I.  (WiUiam  the  Conqueror  to  Henry  VII.).      1865.     {Out 
of  print.) 

Part  II.  (Henry  VII.  and  Edward  VI.).      1866. 

Part  III.  (Mary  and  Elizabeth).      1867. 

Part  IV.  (James  I.  to  Anne).      1868. 

The  6rst  Part  extends  from  William  the  Conqueror  to 
Henry  VII.,  and  contains  autographs  of  the  kings  of  England, 
as  well  as  of  many  other  illustrious  personages  famous  in  history, 
and  some  interesting  charters,  letters  patent,  and  state  papers. 
The  second  Part,  for  the  reigns  of  Henry  VIII.  and  Edward  VI., 
consists  principally  of  holograph  letters,  and  autographs  of  kings, 
princes,  statesmen,  and  other  persons  of  great  historical  interest, 
who  lived  during  those  reigns.  The  third  Part  contains  similar 
documents  for  the  reigns  of  Mary  and  Elizabeth,  including 
a  signed  bill  of  Lady  Jane  Grey.  The  foinrth  Part  concludes 
the  series,  and  comprises  a  number  of  documents  taken  from 
the  originals  belonging  to  the  Constable  of  the  Tower  of  London  ; 
also  several  records  illustrative  of  the  Gunpowder  Plot,  and  a 
woodcut  containing  portraits  of  Mary  Queen  of  Scots  and 
James  VI.,  circulated  by  their  adherents  in  England,  1580-3. 


23 

Fac-simit.es  of  Anoi-o-Saxon  Manusciiii'ts.  I'hotozincograpliod 
by  the  Oronance  Survey,  and  oditod  ))y  W.  Haskvi  Sanders. 
Part  I.     Price  21.  10s. 

The  Ango-Saxon  MSS.  represented  in  this  volume  form  the 
earlier  portions  of  the  collection  of  archives  belonging  to  the 
Dean  and  Chapter  of  Canterbury,  and  consist  of  a  series  of 
2.5  charters,  deeds,  and  wills,  commencing  with  a  record  of 
proceedings  at  the  first  Synodal  Council  of  Clovesho  in  742, 
and  terminating  with  the  first  part  of  a  tripartite  chirograph 
of  the  sixth  year  of  the  reign  of  Edward  the  Confessor. 

Part  II.     Price  31.   10s. 

(Also  separately.     Edward  the  Confessor's  Charter.     Price  2s.) 

The  originals  of  the  fac-similes  contained  in  this  volume  belong 
to  the  Deans  and  Chapters  of  Westminster,  Exeter,  WoUs, 
Winchester,  and  Worcester  ;  the  Marquis  of  Bath,  the  Earl  of 
Ilchester,  Winchester  College,  Her  Majesty's  I'uhlic  Record  Office, 
Bodleian  Library,  Somersetshire  Archaeological  and  National 
History  Society's  Museum  in  Taunton  Castle,  and  William  Salt 
Library  at  Stafford.  They  consist  of  charters  and  other 
documents  granted  by,  or  during  the  reigns  of,  Baldred,  ^thelred, 
OfTa,  and  Burgred,  Kings  of  Mercia  ;  Uhtred  of  the  Huicca^, 
Caedwalla  and  Ini  of  Wessex  ;  ^thelwulf,  Eadward  the  Elder, 
^thelstan,  Eadmund  the  First,  Eadred,  Eadwig,  Eadgar, 
Eadward  the  Second,  ^Ethelred  the  Second,  Cnut,  Eadward  the 
Confessor,  and  William  the  Conqueror,  embracing  altogether 
a  period  of  nearly  four  hundred  years. 

Part  III.     Price  61.  6s. 

This  volume  contains  fac-similes  of  the  Ashburnham  Collection 
of  Anglo-Saxon  Charters,  &c.,  including  King  Alfred's  will.  The 
MSS.  represented  in  it  range  from  A.D.  697  to  A.D.  IIGI,  being 
charters,  wills,  deeds,  and  reports  of  Synodal  transactions  during 
the  reigns  of  Kings  Wihtred  of  Kent,  Offa,  Eardwulf,  Coenwulf, 
Cuthred,  Beornwulf,  .lEthelwulf,  Alfred,  Eadward  the  Elder, 
Eadmund,  Eadred,  Queen  Eadgifu,  and  Kings  Eadgar,  ^theh-ed 
the  Second,  Cnut,  Henry  the  First,  and  Henry  the  Second.  In 
addition  to  these  are  two  belonging  to  the  Marquis  of  Anglesey, 
one  of  them  being  the  Foundation  Charter  of  Burton  Abbey  by 
^thelred  the  Second,  with  the  testament  of  its  great  benefactor 
W\iHric. 


24 


HISTORICAL    MANUSCRIPTS    COMMISSION. 


REPORTS  OF  THE  ROYAL  COMMISSIONERS  APPOINTED  TO  INQUIRE  WHAT 
PAPERS  AND  MANUSCRIPTS  BELONGING  TO  PRIVATE  FAMILIES  AND 
INSTITUTIONS  ARE  EXTANT  WHICH  WOULD  BE  OF  UTILITY  IN  THE 
ILLUSTRATION  OF  HISTORY,  CONSTITUTIONAL  LAW,  SCIENCE,  AND  GENERAL 
LITERATURE. 


{Size,  to  Ninth  Report,  Pari  III.,  inclusive,  F'cap  ;    alter  thai,  Svo.) 


(Dates  in  parentheses  show  years  of  Reprints.) 


Date. 


No.  of 
Paper. 


Price. 


1870 
(1874) 


1871 


1872 
(1895) 


1873 


1873 
1876 


1876 


First  Report,  with  Appendix 

England.  House  of  Lords  ;  Cambridge 
Colleges ;  Abingdon,  and  other  Cor- 
porations, &c.  Scotland.  Advocates' 
Library,  Glasgow  Corporation,  &c. 
Ireland.  DubUn,  Cork,  and  other 
Corporations,  &c. 

Second    Report,     with    Appendix,     and 
Index     to     the     First     and     Second 

Reports        

England.  House  of  Lords  ;  Cambridge 
Colleges  ;  Oxford  Colleges ;  Monas- 
tery of  Dominican  Friars  at  Wood- 
chester,  Duke  of  Bedford,  Earl  Spencer, 
&c.  Scotland.  Aberdeen  and  St. 
Andrew's  Universities,  &c.  Ireland. 
Marquis  of  Ormonde  ;  Dr.  Lyons,  &c. 

Third  Report,  with  Appendix  and  Index 
England.  House  of  Lords  ;  Cambridge 
Colleges  ;  Stonyhurst  College  ;  Bridg- 
water and  other  Corporations  ;  Duke 
of  Northmnberland,  Marquis  of  Lans- 
downe,  Marquis  of  Bath,  &c.  Scot- 
land. University  of  Glasgow  ;  Duke 
of  Montrose,  &c.  Ireland.  Marquis  of 
Ormonde  ;  Black  Book  of  Limerick,  &c. 

Fourth  Report,  with  Appendix.  Part  I. 
England.  House  of  Lords  ;  West- 
minster Abbey ;  Cambridge  and 
Oxford  Colleges  ;  Cinque  Ports,  Hythe, 
and  other  Corporations ;  Marquis  of 
Bath,  Earl  of  Denbigh,  &c.  Scotland. 
Duke  of  Argyll,  &c.  Ireland.  Trinity 
College,  Dubhn  ;  Marquis  of  Or- 
monde. 

Ditto.     Part  II.     Index 

Fifth  Report,  with  Appendix.  Part  I. 
England.  House  of  Lords  ;  Oxford  and 
Cambridge  Colleges  ;  Dean  and 
Chapter  of  Canterbury  ;  Rye,  Lydd, 
and  other  Corporations ;  Duke  of 
Sutherland,  Marquis  of  Lansdowne, 
Reginald  Cholmondeley,  Esq.,  &c. 
Scotland.     Earl  of  Aberdeen,  &c. 

Ditto.     Part  II.     Index 


C.  55 


C.  441 


C.  673 


C.  857 


C.  857-i 
C.   1432 


C.   1432-i 


s.     d, 
1     6 


3   10 


6     0 


6     8 


2     6 

7     0 


3     6 


25 


1878 
(1893) 

1879 
(1895) 


1879 
(1895) 

1881 


1881 

1881 

1883 
(1895) 


Sixth  Report,  with  Appendix.  Part  I. 
England.  House  of  Lords  ;  Oxford  and 
Cambridge  Colleges  ;  Lambeth  Palace  ; 
Black  Book  of  the  Archdeacon  of  Can- 
terbury ;  Bridport,  Wallingford,  and 
other  Corporations  ;  Lord  Leconfield, 
Sir  Reginald  Graham,  Sir  Henry 
Ingilby,  &c.  Scotland.  Duke  of 
Argyll,  Earl  of  Moray,  &c.  Ireland. 
Marquis  of  Ormonde. 

Ditto.     Part  II.     Index 

Seventh  Report,  with  Appendix.   Part  I. 
House  of  Lords  ;    County  of  Somerset ; 
Earl    of   Egmont,    Sir   Frederick    Gra- 
ham, Sir  Harry  Vernej',  &c. 
Ditto.   Part  II.  Appendix  and  Index 

Duke   of   Atholl,    Marquis   of   Ormonde, 
Sir  S.   F.   Livingstone,  &c. 
Eighth     Report,     with     Appendix     and 
Index.     Part  I.         

Re-issued  as  Stationery  Office  publica- 
tions— 
Report    and     Appendix,     Part    I., 
Section      I.       1907.       Price      6s. 
8vo  :— 
Duke   of   Marlborough  ;     Earl   of   Ports- 
mouth ;     Earl    of    Jersey  ;     House    of 
Lords  ;     Lord   Emly  ;     Ralph   Bankes, 
Esq.,    Geo.    Wingfield    Digby,    Esq.  ; 
Royal  College  of  Physicians  ;   Corpora- 
tion of  Trinity  Hojte. 

Report  and  Appendix,  Part  I.,  Sec- 
tion II.  1908.  Price  6s.  8vo.  :— 
Magdalen  College,  Oxford  ;  Corporation 
of  Pontefract ;  Lord  Braybrooke  ; 
Viscount  Arbutlmott  ;  Earl  of 
Glasgow  ;  Miss  Hamilton  of  Burns 
and  Cochno  ;  Alex.  C.  Stuart,  Esq., 
of  Eaglescarnie  ;  Dean  and  Chapter 
of  Canterbury  ;  Corporations  of  Chester 
and  Leicester ;  The  O' Conor  Don, 
M.P.  ;  Lord  Talbot  de  Malahide ; 
Marquis  of  Ormonde. 

Report    and     Anpondix.       Part     I. 
Section    III.,    and    Index.      1909. 
Price  4s.  firf.      8vo  : — 
Earl      of      Denbigh  ;       Trinity      College, 
Dublin  ;    Ewelme  Almshouse  ;    Queen 
Anne's     Bounty  ;      Edw.     Hailstone, 
Esq.  ;     Church   of   St.    Andrew,   Wor- 
cester ;      Bishop      Bubwith's      Alms- 
houses,  Wells ;     Derry   Diocesan   Lib- 
rary :     G.   H.   Finch,   Esq. 
Ditto.     Part  II.      Appendix   and    Index 

Duke  of  Manchester. 
Ditto.     Part  III.     Appendix  and  Index 

Earl  of  Ashburnham. 
Ninth  Report,  with  Appendix  and  Index. 

Part  I 

St.  Paul's  and  Canterbiiry  Cathedrals ; 
Eton  College ;  CarUsle,  Yarmouth, 
Canterbvu-y,  and  Barnstaple  Corpora- 
tions, &c. 


C.    1745 


C.  2102  1  10 

C.  2340  7  6 

I 

C.  2340-i    I  3  0 


C.  3040      ;  Out  oj 
print. 


C.  3040-i 
C.  3040-ii 

C.  3773 


Out  of 
print. 

Out  of 
print. 

5     2 


26 


Date. 


1884 

(1895) 


1884 


1883 
(1895) 
1888 
1889 
1892 
1894 
1896 
1899 
1899 
1902 
1904 
1906 


1885 


1885 
(1896) 

1885 
1885 


1885 


1885 
(1895) 

1887 

1887 

1887 

1887 
1887 


Ninth  Report.     Pakt  II.     Appendix  and 
Index. 
England.      House    of    Lords ;    Earl    of 
Leicester;    C.  Pole    Gell,    Alfred   Mor- 
rison,  Esqs.,    &c.      Scotland.      Lord 
Elphinstone,    H.    C.    Maxwell    Stuart, 
Esq.,  &c.  Ireland.  Duke  of   Leinster, 
Marquis  of  Drogheda,  &c. 
Ditto.  Pajit  III.   Appendix  and  Index    .  . 
Mrs.  Stopford  Sackville  [re-issued,  1904, 
revised  and  extended,  as  Vol.  I.,  Cd. 
1892.     Price  Is.   lOd.     8vo.] 
Calendar    of   the    Manuscripts    of   the 
Marquis  of  Salisbury,  K.G.   (or  Cecil 
MSS.). 

Past  L  1306-1571        

Part  II.  1572-1582        

Part  IIL        1583-1589       

Part  IV.         1590-1594        

Paet  V.  1594-1596        

Part  VL        1596         

Part  VII.       1597  

Part  VIII.     1598         

Part  IX.        1599         

Part  X.  1600         

Part  XL        1601  

Part  XII.      1602         

Tenth  Report        

{Re-issued,  1906,  as  a  Stationery  Office 
Publication.     Price  6d. ) 

This  is  introductory  to  the  following 
Appendices  and  Indexes  : 

(1.)  Earl  of  Eglinton,  Sir  J.  S.  Maxwell, 
Bart.,  and  C.  S.  H.  D.  Moray,  C.  F. 
Weston  Underwood,  G.W.  Digby,  Esqs. 

(2.)  The  Family  of  Gawdy 

(3.)  WeUs  Cathedral  

[Re-issued,  1906,  revised  and  extended, 
as  Cd.  2810.     2s.  lid.     8vo.l 

(4.)  Earl  of  Westmorland  ;  Capt.  Ste- 
wart ;  Lord  Stafford  ;  Sir  N.  W. 
Throckmorton  ;  Sir  P.  T.  Mainwaring, 
Lord  Muncaster,  M.P.,  Capt.  J.  F. 
Bagot,  Earl  of  Kilmorey,  Earl  of  Powis, 
and  others ;  the  Corporations  of 
Kendal,  Wenlock,  Bridgnorth,  Eye, 
Plymouth ;  the  County  of  Essex  ; 
and  Stonyhurst  College. 

{Re  issued,  1906,  as  a  Stationery  Office 
Publication.     Price  6s. ) 

(5.)  Marquis  of  Ormonde,  Earl  of  Fingall, 
Corporations  of  Galway  and  Waterford, 
Sees  of  Dublin  and  Ossory,  the  Jesuits 
in  Ireland. 

( 6. )  Marquis  of  Abergavenny ;  Lord  Braye ; 
G.  F.  Lnttrell,  P.  P.  Bouverie,  W. 
Bromley  Davenport,  R.T.  Balfour,  Esqs. 

Eleventh  Report         

This  is  introductory  to  the  following 
Appendices  and  Indexes  : 

(1.)  H.      D.      Skrine.      Esq..       Salvetti 
Correspondence 

(2.)  House  of  Lords,   1678-1688     .  .      . . 

(3.)  Corporations  of  Southampton  and 
Lynn 


No.  of 
Paper. 


Price. 


C.  3773-i 


C.  3773-ii 


C.  3777 
C.  5463 
C.  5889-v 
C.  6823 
C.  7574 
C.  7884 
C.  P'><6 
C.  9467 
Cd.  928 
Cd.  2052 
Cd.  3134 


C.  4548 


C.  4575 


C.  4576-iii 
C.   4576-ii 


C.  4576 


a.   d. 
6     3 


Out  of 
print. 


3     5 

3     5 

2     1 

2   11 

2     6 

2     8 

2     8 

2     8 

2     3 

2     3 

2  10 

In  the 

press. 

Out  of 

print. 


3     7 


1  4 
Out  of 
print. 

Out  of 
print. 


C.  4576-i 

2 

10 

C.  5242 

1 

7 

C.  5060-vi 

0 

3 

C.  5060 

1 

1 

C.  5060-i 

2 

0 

C.  5060-ii 

1 

8 

27 


Date. 


No.  of 
Paper. 


Price. 


1887 
1887 
1887 
1888 


1890 


1888 

1888 
1889 
1888 

1891 
1889 
1890 
1891 
1891 


1891 
1892 


1891 
1893 
1892 

1892 


1892 
1893 


1893 
1893 

1896 


1894 
1894 
1894 


1894 
1896 


Eleventh     Ukport  :     Appendices       and 
Indexes — cont. 

(4.)  Marquess  Tovvnshend        

(5.)  Earl  of  Dartmouth 

(6.)  Duke  of  Hamilton 

(7.)  Duko  of  Leeds,  Mrti-chioncss  of 
Waterford,  Lord  Hothfield,  <%c.  ; 
Bridgwater  Trust  Office,  Raading 
Corporation,  Inner  Temple  Library. 

Twelfth  Report  

This  is  introductory  to  tlie  following 
Appendices  and  Indexes  : 
(1.)  Earl  Cowper,   K.G.   (Coke  MSS.,  at 
Melbourne  Hall,  Derby).     Vol.  I. 

(2.)  Ditto.     Vol.  II 

(3.)  Ditto.     Vol.   Ill 

(4.)  Duke  of  Rutland,  G.C.B.     Vol.    I. 

(5.)  Ditto.     Vol.  II 

(6.)  House  of  Lords,   1689-1G90     ..      .. 

(7.)  S.  H.  le  Fleming,  Esq.,  of  Rydal      .  . 

(8.)  Duke  of  Athole,  K.T.,  Earl  of  Fome 

(9.)  Duke  of  Beaufort,  K.G.,  Earl  of 
Donoughmore  ;  J.  H.  Gurney,  W.  W. 
B.  Hulton.  R.  W.  Ketton,  G.  A. 
Aitken,  P.  V.  Smith,  Esqs.  ;  Bishop 
of  Ely  ;  Cathedrals  of  Ely,  Gloucester, 
Lincoln  and  Peterborough  ;  Corpora- 
tions of  Gloucester,  Higham  Ferrers, 
and  Newark  ;  Southwell  Minster ; 
Lincoln  District  Registry. 
(10.)  First  Earl  of  Charlemont.    Vol.  I. 

Thirteenth  Report      

This  is  introductory  to  the  following 
Appendices  and  Indexes  : 

(1.)  Duke  of  Portland.     Vol.  I 

(2.)  Ditto.     Vol.  II 

(3.)  J.  B.  Fortescue,  Esq.,  of  Drop- 
more.  Vol.  I. 

(4.)  Corporations  of  Rye,  Hastings,  and 
Hereford  ;  Captain  F.  C.  Loder- 
Symonds  ;  E.  R.  Wodehouse,  M.P., 
J.  Dovaston,  Esqs.  ;  Sir  T.  B.  Leonard, 
Bart.,  Rev.  W.  D.  Macray,  and  Earl 
of  Dartmouth  (Supplementary  Report). 

(5.)  House  of  Lords,   1690-1691     . .      .  . 

(6.)  Sir  W.  Fitzherbert,  Bart.  ;  the 
Delaval  Family,  of  Seaton  Delaval ; 
Earl  of  Ancaster  ;  General  Lyttelton- 
Annesley. 

(7.)  Earl  of  Lonsdale        

(8.)  First  Earl  of  Charlemont.     Vol.   II. 

Fourteenth  Report     

This  is  introductory  to  the  following 
Appendices  and  Indexes  : 
(1.)  Duke  of  Rutland,  G.C.B.    Vol.  IIL 
(2.)  Duke  of  Portland.     Vol.  III. 
(3.)  Duke    of    Roxburghe  ;     Sir    H.    H. 
Campbell,     Bart.  ;      Earl     of     Strath- 
more  ;    Countess  Dowager  of  Seafield. 

(4.)  Lord  Kenyon 

(5.)  J.  B.  Fortescue,  Esq.,  of  Dropmore. 
Vol.  11.        


8.   d. 


c.  noeo-iii 

2 

6 

C.  5060-iv 

2 

8 

C.  5060  v 

1 

6 

C.  5612 

2 

0 

C.  5889 


C.  5472 


0  3 


2  7 


C.  5613 

2  5 

C.  5889-i 

1  4 

C.  5614 

Out  of 

print. 

C.  5889-ii 

2  0 

C.  5889-iii 

2  1 

C.  5889-iv 

1  11 

C.  6338 

1  0 

C.  6338-i 

2  6 

C.  6338-ii 
C.  6827 


C.  6474 

C.  6827 -i 

C.  6660 

C.  6810 


C.  6822 
C.  7166 


C.  7241 
C.  7424 

C.  7983 


C.  7476 
C.  7569 
e.  7570 


C.  7571 
C.  7572 


1  11 
0  3 


3  0 

2  0 

2  7 

2  4 


2  4 
1  4 


1  3 
1  II 

0  3 


1  11 

2  8 
1  2 


2  10 

2  8 


28 


Date. 


No.  of 
Paper. 


Price. 


1895 


1895 
1895 


1895 

1895 
1899 


1896 
1897 
1897 


1897 
1897 
1897 
1897 

1897 

1897 

1899 


1898 
1899 

1905 


1902 


1903 

1905 
1899 


1903 
1903 
1903 


Fourteenth    Report  :    Appendices    and 
Indexes — con*.  I 

(6.)  Houseof  Lords,  1692-93 \      C.  7573 

(Manuscripts   of   the   House   of   Lords, 
]  693-1 695.      Vol.  I.  (New  Series).    See 
H.  L.  No.  (5)  of  1900.     Price  2s.  2d. 
Ditto.     1695-1697.     Vol.  II.    See  H.L. 

No.  (18)  of  190.3.    Price  2s.  9d. 
Ditto.    1697-1699.    Vol.  III.    See  H.L. 

No.   (175)  of  1905.     Price  2s.) 
Ditto.    1699-1702.     Vol.  IV.    See  H.L. 
No.  (7)  1908.    Price  2s.  9d. 

(7.)  Marquis  of  Ormonde         C.  7678 

(8.)  Lincoln,   Bury  St.   Edmunds,   Hert-        C.   7881 
ford  find  Great  Grimsby  Corporations  ; 
Dean  and  Chapter  of  Worcester,  and 
of    Lichfield ;      Bishop's    Registry    of 
Worcester. 

(9.)  Earl  of  Buckinghamshire  ;    Earl  of  ;     C.   7882 
Lindsey ;      Earl     of     Onslow  ;      Lord  , 
Emly  ;    T.   J.   Hare,  Esq.,  J.   Round, 
Esq.,  M.P. 
(10.)  Earl  of  Dartmouth.  Vol.   II.  Amer-        C.   7883 
ican  Papers. 

Fifteenth  Report        C.  9295 

This  is  introductory  to  the  following 
Appendices  and  Indexes  :  [ 

(1.)  Earl  of  Dartmouth.     Vol.  III.       ..         C.   8156 

(2.)  J.  Eliot  Hodgkin,  Esq C.  8327 

(3.)  Charles  Haliday,  Esq.,  of    Dublin;        C.  8364 

Acts  of  the  Privy  Council  in  Ireland, 

1.056-1571  ;       Sir     William      Ussher's 

Table  to  the  Council  Book  ;    Table  to 

the  Red  Council  Book. 

(4.)  Duke  of  Portland.     Vol.  IV.  . .         C.   8497 

(5.)  Right  Hon.  F.  J.  Savile  Foljambe  . .         C.  8550 

(6.)  Earl  of  Carlisle,  Castle  Howard         ..         C.   8551 

(7.)  Duke    of     Somerset ;      Marquis     of        C.  8552 

Ailesbury  ;    Sir  F.  G.  Puleston,  Bart.   '< 
(8.)  Duke    of     Buccleuch     and     Queens-        C.  8553 

berry,  at  Drumlanrig.     Vol.      I. 
(9.)  J.    J.    Hope     Johnstone,     Esq.,    of        C.  8554 
Annandale. 
(10.)  Shrewsbury     and      Coventry      Cor-        C.  9472 
porations ;     Sir  H.    O.    Corbet,   Bart., 
Earl  of  Radnor,  P.  T.  Tillard,  J.  R. 
Carr-ElUson,  Andrew  Kingsmill,  Esqs. 
Manuscripts  in  the  Welsh  Language  : 

Vol.  I.   Lord  Mostyn,  at  Mostyn  Hall    . .         C.  8829 
Vol.  L   Partn.     W.  R.  M.  Wynne,  Esq.,         C.  9468 

of  Peniarth. 

Vol.     I.     Part    III.     Peniarth.     Sir    T.       Cd.  2443 
Williams ;        John        Jones,      Robert  ] 
Vaughan,  Esqs.  | 

Vol.   II.  Part  I.  Jesus  College,   Oxford;       Cd.   1100 
Free  Library,  Cardiff  ;   Havod  ;  Wrex- 
ham ;    Llanwrin ;    Merthyr  ;    Aberdar. 
Vol.   II.   Part  II.    Plas    Llan     Stephan ;       Cd.   1692 

Free  Library,  Cardiff. 
Vol.  II.   Part  III.  Panton  ;  Cwrtmawr  . .    :    Cd.   2444 
Manuscripts.  Duke  of  Buccleuch  and  Queens-        C.  9244 
berry,    K.G.,    K.T.,    at   Montagu    House, 
Whitehall.     Vol.  I. 

Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  II.     Part  1 1    Cd.  930 

Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  II.     Part  II Cd.  930-i 

Ditto.  Ditto.  At  Drumlanrig  Castle.  Vol.  II.  [    Cd.   1827 


8.   d, 
1   11 


1   10 
1     5 


2     6 

2     9 
0     4 


1     5 

1     S 
1     4 


2  11 

0  10 

3  6 

1  9 

1     4 
1     0 

1     0 


1  4 

2  11 

0     8 


1     9 


1  8 

0     8 

2  7 


1  10 
1  11 
1     1 


29 


Date. 


Price. 


1899 

1909 
1902 
1903 
1904 
1906 
1908 


1904 


1899 
1901 

1901 
1907 
1899 
1899 
1905 
1906 
1908 


1899 
1900 
1900 
1900 
1901 


1903 


1904 


1907 


1909 


1909 


1902 


Manuscripts.  Marquess  of  Ormonde,  K.P., 

at  Kilkenny  Castle.     Vol.  II. 

Ditto.     Ditto.  Index  to  Vols.  I.  and  II. 

Ditto.     Ditto.  New  Series.     Vol.  I. 

Ditto.     Ditto.  Ditto. 

Ditto.     Ditto.  Ditto. 

Ditto.     Ditto.  Ditto. 


Ditto.     Ditto.  Ditto. 

Ditto.     Ditto.  Ditto. 


Vol.  II. 

Vol.  III. 

Vol.  IV. 

Vol.  V. 

Vol.  VI. 


Ditto.     Mrs.  Stopford-Sackville.    Vol.  I.     . . 
Ditto.     Ditto.  Vol.  II. 

Ditto.  Duke    of    Portland,    K.G.     Vol.  V. 

Ditto.  Ditto.     Vol.     VI,   with    Index     to 

Vols.  III.-VI. 

Ditto.  Ditto.     Vol.  VII 

Ditto.  Ditto.     Vol.  VIII 

Ditto.  J.  M.  Heathcote,  Esq 

Ditto.  J.  B.  Fortescue,  Esq.     Vol.  III.     . . 

Ditto.  Ditto.     Vol.  IV 

Ditto.  Ditto.     Vol.  V.  

Ditto.  Ditto.     Vol.  VI 

Ditto.  Ditto.     Vol.  VII 

Ditto.     F.  W.  Leyborne-Popham,  Esq. 

Ditto.     Mrs.  Frankland-Russell-Astley 

Ditto.     Lord  Montagu  of  Beaulieu     . . 

Ditto.     Beverley  Corporation       

Ditto.  Various  Collections.  Vol.  I.  Cor- 
porations of  Berwick-on-Tweed,  Burford 
and  Lostwithiel ;  Counties  of  Wilts  and 
Worcester  ;  Bishop  of  Chichester  ;  Dean 
and  Chapter  of  Chichester,  Canterbury, 
and  Salisbury. 

Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  II.  Sir  Geo.  Womb- 
well,  Duke  of  Norfolk,  Lord  Edmund 
Talbot  (the  Shrewsbury  Papers),  Miss 
Buxton,  Mrs.  Harford  and  Mrs.  Went- 
worth  of  Woolley. 

Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  III.  T.  B.  Clarke- 
Thornhill,  Esq.,  Sir  T.  Barrett-Lennard, 
Bart.,  Pelham  R.  Papillon,  W.  Cleverley 
Alexander,  Esqs. 

Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  IV.  Bishop  of  Salis- 
bury ;  Bishop  of  Exeter ;  Dean  and 
Chapter  of  Exeter ;  Earl  of  Leicester ; 
Sir  W.  Clayton,  Bart.  ;  Major  Money- 
Kyrle  ;  F.  H.  T.  Jervoise,  Esq.  ;  Glem- 
ham  Hall ;  Corporations  of  Salisbury, 
Or  ford,  and  Aldeburgh. 

Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  V.  Colonel  Mordaunt 
Hay  of  Duns  Castle ;  Sir  Archibald 
Edmonstone  of  Duntreath ;  Sir  John 
Graham  of  Fintry,  K.C.M.G. 

Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  VI.  Miss  M.  Eyre 
Matcham  ;  Captain  H.  V.  Knox  ;  C.  Wyke- 
ham-Martin,  K.  B.  Tighe,  Esqs.,  Lord 
Oranmore  and  Browne. 

Calendar  of  the  Stuart  Manuscripts  at 
Windsor  Castle,  belonging  to  His  Majesty 
the  King.     Vol.   I. 


C.  9245 

C.  4774 
Cd.  929 
Cd.  1691 
Cd.  1963 
Cd.  3008 
Cd.  4116 


Cd.  1892 


C.  9466 
Cd.  676 

Cd.  783 
Cd.  3475 
C.  9469 
C.  9470 
Cd.  2233 
Cd.  2311 
Cd.  3670 


C.  9471 
Cd.  282 
Cd.  283 
Cd.  284 
Cd.  784 


Cd.  932 


Cd.  1964 


Cd.  3218 


Cd.  4600 


Cd.  4382 


Cd.  927 


A.  d. 
2  0 

0  Hi 

1  7 

1  10 

2  0 

3  0 

2  10 
In  the 
press. 

1  10 
In  the 

press. 

2  9 

1  9 

2  3 
1  10 


1 
3 

2 

2 

2  t> 
In  the 
press. 


6 
0 


1  1 


0 
0 


2  4 


1  6 


1  9 


1  4 


2  3 


2  11 


30 


Date. 


1904 


1907 


1902 

1904 

1907 
1908 
1904 

1906 
1907 
1909 
1904 


1904 

1905 
1905 

1905 
1905 

1905 
1906 
1906 

1907 
1907 
i907 


Calendar  of  the  Stuart  Manuscripts  at 
Windsor  Castle,  belonging  to  His  Majesty 
the  King.     Vol.  II.  

Ditto.     Vol.  Ill 

Ditto.     Vol.  IV 

Manuscripts.  Colonel  David  Milne-Home, 
of  Wedderbiirn  Castle,  N.B. 

Ditto.  Marquess  of  Bath,  at  Longleat,  Wilt- 
shire.    Vol.  I. 

Ditto.     Ditto.     Vol.  II 

Ditto.     Ditto.     Vol.  III.     (Prior  Papers).. 

American  Manuscripts  in  the  Royal  Institu- 
tion of  Great  Britain.     Vol.  I. 

Ditto.     Vol.  II 

Ditto.     Vol.  IIT 

Ditto.     Vol.  IV 

Sixteenth  Report  (containing  a  list  of  the 
owners  of  Manuscripts  upon  whose  collec- 
tions Reports  have  been  made  to  July, 
1904). 

Manuscripts.  Earl  of  Mar  and  Kellie, 
at  Alloa  House,  N.B. 

Ditto.     Lady  Du  Cane  

Marquess   of  Lothian,   at    Blickling 


Ditto. 
Hall 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 


Earl  of  Egmont.    Vol.  I.     Part  I.  . . 
Ditto.  Vol.  I.     Part  II. 

Ditto.  Vol.  II 

Duke  of  Rutland.     Vol.  IV. 

Earl  of  Verulam        

(Franciscan)  at  the  Convent,     Mer- 
chants' Quay,  Dublin. 
Ditto.     Dean  and  Chapter  of  Wells  .  . 
Ditto.     Earl  of  Ancaster,  at  Grimsthorpe    . . 
Seventeenth  Report  (containing  a  List  of 
the    owners   of   Manuscripts   upon    whose 
collections   Reports   have    been   made    to 
June,   1907. 
Manuscripts.     Lord  Polwarth       


Cd.  2189 
Cd.  3430 


Cd.  931 

Cd.  2048 

Cd.  3474 

Cd.  3849 

Cd.  2201 

Cd.  2897 

Cd.  3669 

Cd.  4773 

Cd.  2209 


Cd.  2190 

Cd.  2367 

Cd.  2319 

Cd.  2318 

Cd.  2570 

Cd.  4599 

Cd.  2606 

Cd.  2973 

Cd.  2867 

Cd.  2810 

Cd.  3429 

Cd.  3737 


a.    d. 


2  9 

2  10 

In  the 

Press. 

1  4 

1  9 

1  0 

2  5 
2  3 

2  6 

1  11 

2  3 
0  9 


2     7 

2     6 
2     2 


8 
9 
3 
9 
4 
4 


2  11 

2     7 
0  11 


In  the 
Prefs. 


.31 

ANNUAL    REPORTS  OF    TIIK   DEPUTY   KEEPER 
OF  THE   PUBLIC  RECORDS. 


REPORTS  NOS.    1-22,  IN  FOLIO,   PUBLISHED     BETWEEN    1840  AND    1861,   ARK   NO 
LONGER   ON  SALE.      SUBSEQUENT  REPORTS   ARE   IN   OCTAVO. 


No. 

Date. 

of 

Report 

1862 

23 

1863 

24 

1864 

25 

1866 

26 

Chief  Contents. 


1866        27 


1867 


28 


1868        29 


1869 


30 


ProceedingB 
Ditto      .  . 


Calendar  of  Crown  Leases,  33-38  Hen. 
VIII. — Calendar  of  Bills  and  An- 
swers, &c..  Hen.  VIII. — Ph.  and 
Mary  for  Cheshire  and  Flintshire. 
— List  of  Lords  High  Treasurer 
and  Chief  Commissioners  of  the 
Treasivry,  from  Hen.  VII. 

List  of  Plans  annexed  to  Inclosure 
Awards,  31  Geo.  II.-7  Will.  IV.— 
Calendar  of  Privy  Seals,  &c.,  for 
Cheshire  and  Flintshire,  Hen.  VI.- 
Eliz. — Calendar  of  Writs  of  Greneral 
Livery,  &c.,  for  Cheshire,  Eliz.- 
Charles  I. — Calendar  of  Deeds,  <fec., 
on  the  Chester  Plea  Rolls,  Hen.  III. 
and  Edw.  I. 

List  of  Awards  of  Inclosxire  Commis- 
sioners.— References  to  Charters  in 
the  Cartas  Antiqufe  and  the  Con- 
firmation Rolls  of  Chancery,  Ethel- 
bert  of  Kent-James  I. — Calendar 
of  Deeds,  &c.,  on  the  Chester  Plea 
Rolls,  Edw.  II. 

Calendar  of  Fines,  Cheshire  and  Flint- 
shire, Edw.  I. — Calendar  of  Deeds, 
&c.,  on  the  Chester  Plea  Rolls, 
Edw.  III. 

Table  of  Law  Terms,  from  the 
Norman  Conquest  to  1  Will.  IV. 

Calendar  of  Royal  Charters. — Calen- 
dar of  Deeds,  &c.,  on  the  Chester 
Plea  Rolls,  Richard  II.-Henry  VTI. 
— Durham  Records,  Letter  and 
Report. 

Duchy  of  Lancaster,  Records,  Inven- 
tory— Durhanri  Records,  Inventory. 
— Calendar  of  Deeds,  &c.,  on  the 
Chester  Plea  Rolls,  Hen.  VIIL— 
Calendar  of  Decrees  of  Court  of 
General  Surveyors,  34-38  Hen.  VIII. 
— Calendar  of  Royal  Charters. — 
State  Paper  Office,Calendar  of  Docu- 
ments relating  to  the  History  of,  to 
1800. — Tower  of  London.  Index  to 
Documents  in  custody  of  the  Con- 
stable of. — Calendar  of  Dockets, 
&c.,  for  Privy  Seals,  1634-1711.— 
Report  of  the  Commissioners  on 
Cart©  Papers. — Venetian  Ciphers. 


C.   2970 
C.  3142 

C.  3318 


C.  3492 


C.   3717 


C.   3839 


C.  4012 


C.  4166 


Price. 


8.   d. 

0     4 
Out  of 
print. 
Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 

pn'nt. 


Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 

print. 


32 


1870 

31 

1871 

32 

1871 

— 

1872 

33 

1873 

34 

1874 

35 

1875 

36 

1876 

37 

1876 

— 

Duchy  of  Lancaster  Records,  Calen- 
dar of  Royal  Charters. — Durham 
Records,  Calendar  of  Chancery 
Enrolments,  Cursitor's  Records. — 
List  of  Officers  of  Palatinate  of 
Chester,  in  Cheshire  and  Flint- 
shire, and  North  Wales. — List  of 
Sheriffs  of  England,  13  Hen.  I.  to 
4  Edw.   III. 

Part  I. — Report  of  the  Commis- 
sioners on  Carte  Papers. — Calen- 
darium  Genealogicum,  1  &  2  Edw. 
11.  —  Durham  Records,  Calendar 
of  Cursitor's  Records.  Chancery 
Enrolments. — Duchy  of  Lancaster 
Records,  Calendar  of  Rolls  of  the 
Chancery  of  the  County  Palatine. 

Part  II.  —  Charities  ;  Calendar  of 
Trust  Deeds  enrolled  on  the  Close 
Rolls  of  Chancery,  subsequent  to 
9  Geo.  II. 

Duchy  of  Lancaster  Records,  Calendar 
of  Rolls  of  the  Chancery  of  the 
County  Palatine. — Durham  Re- 
cords, Calendar  of  the  Cursitors' 
Records,  Chancery  Enrolments. — 
Reports  on  the  Shaftesbury  Papers. 
— Venetian  Transcripts.  —  Greek 
Copies  of  the  Athanasian  Creed. 

Durham  Records,  Calendar  of  the 
C\u"sitors'  Records,  Chancery  En- 
rolments.— Supplementary  Report 
on  the  Shaftesbury  Papers. 

Duchy  of  Lancaster  Records,  Calen- 
dar of  Ancient  Charters  or  Grants. 
— Palatinate  of  Lancaster ;  In- 
ventory and  Lists  of  Documents 
transferred  to  the  Public  Record 
Office.— Durham  Records,  Calendar 
of  Cursitors'  Records. — Chancery 
Enrolments. — Second  Supplemen- 
tary Report  on  the  Shaftesbury 
Papers. 

Durham  Records,  Calendar  of  the 
Cursitor's  Records,  Chancery  En- 
rolments.— Dvichy  of  Lancaster  Re- 
cords ;  Calendar  of  Ancient  Charters 
or  Grants. — Report  upon  Docu- 
ments in  French  Archives  relating 
to  British  History. — Calendar  of 
Recognizance  Rolls  of  the  Pala- 
tinate of  Chester,  to  end  of  reign  of 
Hen.  IV. 

Part  I. — Durham  Records,  Calendar 
of  the  Cursitor's  Records,  Chancery 
Enrolments. — Duchy  of  Lancaster 
Records,  Calendar  of  Ancient  Rolls 
of  the  Chancery  of  the  County 
Palatine. —  List  of  French  Ambas- 
sadors, &c.  in  England,  1509-1714. 

Part  II. — Calendar  of  Recognizance 
Rolls  of  the  Palatinate  of  Chester  ; 
Hen.  v.— Hen.  VIL 


C.   187 


8.   d. 

Out  of 

'print. 


C.   374 


Out  of 
print. 


C.  374-i. 


C.   020 


Out  of 
print. 

Out  of 
print. 


C.  728 


C.   1043 


1     9 


Out  of 
print. 


C.   1301 


Out  of 
print. 


C.   1544 


C.  1544- 


Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 
print. 


33 


Date. 


1877 


1878 


1879 


1880 


No. 

of 
Report 


38 


Chief  Contents. 


39 


40 


41 


1881 


42 


1882 


43 


1883 


44 


Exchequer  Records,  Catalogiie  of 
Special  Commissions,  1  Kliz.  to 
10  Vict.,  Calendar  of  De]K)sitioiis 
taken  hy  (Jominission,  1  EUz.  to 
end  of  James  1. — List  of  Represen- 
tative Peers  for  Scotland  and  Ire- 
land. 

Calendar  of  Recognizance  Rolls  of 
the  Palatinate  of  Chester,  1  Hen. 
VIII.— 11  Geo.  IV.— Exchequer  Re- 
cords, Calendar  of  Depositions 
taken  by  Commission,  Charles  I. — 
Duchy  of  Lancaster  Records  ;  Cal- 
endar of  Lancashire  Inquisitions 
post  Mortem,  &c. — Third  Supple- 
mentary Report  on  tlie  Shaftesbury 
Papers. — List  of  Despatches  of 
French  Ambassadors  to  Plngland. 
1509-1714. 

Calendar  of  Depositions  taken  by 
Commission,  Commonwealth  — 

James  II.  —  Miscellaneous  Re- 
cords of  Queen's  Remembrancer 
in  the  Exchequer. — Durliam  Re- 
cords, Calendar  of  the  Cursitors' 
Records,  Chancery  Enrolments. 
— Calendar  of  Duchy  of  Lancaster 
Patent  Rolls,  5  Ric.  II.— 21  Hen. 
VII. 

Calendar  of  Depositions  taken  by 
Commission,  William  and  ]\Iary  to 
George  I. — Calendar  of  Norman 
Rolls,  Hen.  V.,  Part  I.— List  of 
Calendars,  Indexes,  &c.,  in  the 
Public  Record  Office  on  31st  De 
comber.   1879. 

Calendar  of  Depositions  taken  by 
Commission.  George  II. — Calendar 
of  Norman  Rolls,  Hen.  V..  Part  II. 
and  Glossary. — Calendar  of  Patent 
Rolls,  1  Edw.  I.  Transcripts  from 
Paris. 

Calendar  of  Privy  Seals,  &c.,  1-7 
Chai-les  I. — Duchy  of  Lancaster 
Records,  Inventory  of  Court  Rolls, 
Hen.  III. — Geo.  IV.  Calendar  of 
Privy  Seals,  Ric.  II. — Calendar  of 
Patent  Rolls,  2  Edw.  I.— Fovu-th 
Supplementary  Report  on  the  Shaf- 
tesbury Papers. — Transcripts  frona 
Paris. — Report  on  Libraries  in 
Sweden. — Report  on  Papers  re- 
lating to  English  History  in  the 
State  Ai'chives,  Stockholm. — Re- 
port on  Canadian  Ai'chives. 

Calendar  of  Patent  Rolls,  3  Edw.  I. 
— Durham  Records,  Cursitors'  Re- 
cords, Inquisitions  post  Mortem, 
&c. — Calendar  of  French  Rolls, 
1-10  Hen.  V. — Report  from  Venice. 
— Transcripts  from  Paris. — Report 
from  Rome. 


C.    1747 


Price. 


a.  d. 

Out  of 
print. 


C.   2123 


Out  of 
print. 


C.   2377 


Out  of 
print. 


C.   2658 


4     8 


C.   2972 


4     0 


C.   3425 


3  10 


C.  3771 


3     6 


34 


Date. 


No. 

of 

Report 


Chief  Contents. 


No.  of 
Paper. 


Price. 


1884 


1885 


1886 


1887 


1888 


1889 
1890 
1891 
1892 
1893 
1894 
1895 
1896 

1897 
1898 
1899 
1900 
1901 
1902 
1903 
1904 
1905 
1906 
1907 
1908 
1909 


45 


46 


47 


48 


49 


50 
51 
52 
53 
54 
55 
56 
57 

58 
59 
60 
61 
62 
63 
64 
65 
66 
67 
68 
69 
70 


Duchy  of  Lancaster  Records,  Inven- 
tory of  Ministers'  and  Receivers' 
Accounts,  Edw.  I. — Geo.  III. — 
Durham  Records,  Cursitors'  Re- 
cords, Inquisitions  post  Mortem, 
&c. — Calendar  of  Diplomatic  Docu- 
ments.— Transcripts  frojn  Paris. — 
Reports  from  Rome-  and  Stock- 
hohn. — Report  on  Archives  of 
Denmark,  &c. — Transcripts  from 
Venice. — Calendar  of  Patent  Rolls, 
4  Edw.  I. 

Presentations  to  Offices  on  the  Patent 
Rolls,  Charles  II. — Transcripts  from 
Paris.  Reports  from  Rome. — 
Second  Report  on  Ai-chives  of  Den- 
mark, &c. — Calendar  of  Patent 
Rolls,  5  Edw.  I. — Catalogue  of 
Venetian  Manuscripts  bequeathed 
by  Mr.  Rawdon  Brown  to  the 
Public  Record  Office. 

Transcripts  from  Paris — Third  Report 
on  Archives  of  Denmark,  &c. — 
List  of  Creations  of  Peers  and 
Baronets,  1483-1646.— Calendar  of 
Patent  Rolls,  6  Edw.  I. 

Calendar  of  Patent  Rolls,  7  Edw.  I. — 
Calendar  of  French  Rolls,  Henry  VI. 
— Calendar  of  Privy  Seals,  &c., 
8-11  Charles  I. — Calendar  of  Diplo- 
matic Documents. — Schedules  of 
Valueless  Documents. 

Calendar  of  Patent  Rolls,  8  Edw.  I. — 
Index  to  Leases  and  Pensions 
Augmentation  Office). — Calendar 
of    Star    Chamber    Proceedings. 

Calendar  of  Patent  Rolls,  9  Edw.  I.    .  . 

Proceedings  

Ditto       

Ditto       

Ditto       

Ditto 

Ditto       

Ditto.  Account  of  the  Rolls  Chapel, 
with  eight  plates  of  the  Chapel. 

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Indexes  to  Printed  Reports,  viz.  : — 
Reports  1-22  (1840-1861)  (bound)   . 
„       23-39(1862-1878)        ..      .. 


C.  4425 


C.  4746 


C.  4888 


C.  5234 


C.   5596 


C.  5847 

1 

2 

C.  6108 

0 

2 

C.  6528 

0 

n 

C.  6804 

0 

n 

C.  7079 

0 

n 

C.  7444 

0 

u 

C.  7841 

0 

U 

C.  8271 

1 

0 

C.  8543 

0 

u 

C.  8906 

0 

C.  9366 

0 

Cd.  245 

0 

Cd.  617 

0 

Cd.  1141 

0 

Cd.  1620 

0 

Cd.  2129 

0 

Cd.  2536 

0 

Cd.  2962 

0 

Cd.  3439 

0 

Cd.  4062 

0 

Cd.  4624 

0 



10 

0 

— 

2 

0 

8.    d. 
4     3 


2   10 


2      2 


3     6 


3     3 


85 

SCX)T'riSII    KECOIU)    PUBLICATIONS. 

[Other  Works  Rklatino  to  Scotland  will  hk  found  amono  the  Publica- 
tions OF  THE  Record  Commissioners,  nee  pp.  20-21.] 


1.  Chronicles  ov  teil;  Piots  and  Soots,  and  other  early  Memorials  of 

Scottish  History.     (Out  oj  print.) 

2.  Ledger  of  Andrew  Halyburton,  Conskrvator  of  the  Privileges  of 

THE  Scotch  Nation  in  the  Netherlands  (1492-150H)  ;  together 
with  the  Books  of  Customs  and  Valuation  of  Merchandises  in 
Scotland,   1(512.     Edited  by  C.  Innes.      10s. 

3.  Documents   Illustrative   of  the    History   of   Scotland   from   the 

Death  of  Kino  Alexander  the  Third  to  the  Accession  of  Robert 
Bruce,  from  original  ami  authentic  copies  in  London,  Paris,  Brussels, 
Lille,  and  Ghent.     £rf//ed  ^.y  the  Rev.  ,1.  Stevenson.    2  Vols.     lOs.  each. 

4.  Accounts    of   the    Lord    High    Treasurer    ok    Scotland.       Vol.    I., 

1473-1498.  Edited  by  T.  Dickson;  Vol.  LL,  1500-1504.  Vol.  III., 
1506-1507.  Vol.  IV.,  1507-1513.  Vol.  V.,  1515-1531.  Vol.  VL, 
1531-1538.  Vol.  VIL,  1538-1541.  Vol.  VUL,  1541-1546.  Edited 
by  Sir  J.  B.  Paul.      IO,t.  each. 

5.  Register  of  the  Privy  Council  or  Scotland.       Vol.  I.,   1545-1569. 

Vol.  II.,  1569-  1578.     Edited  and  arranged  by  J.  H.  Burton,  LL.D.  ; 

Vol.  III.,   1578-1585.     Vol.  IV.,   158.5-1592.      (Out  of  print.)     Vol.  V., 

1592-1599.     Vol.  VI.,  1599-1604.     Vol.  VIL,  1604-1607.     Vol.  VIII., 

1607-1610.     Vol.    IX.,    1610-1613.     Vol.    X.,    1613-1616.     Vol.    XL. 

1616-1619.     Vol.  XIL,  1619-1622.    Vol.  XIIL,  1622-1625.    Vol.  XIV., 

Addenda,  1545-1625.  Edited  by  D.  Masson,  LL.D,  15s.  each. 
oa.   Ditto,  Second  Series.    Vol.  I.,  1625-1627.    Edited  by  D.  Masson,  LL.D.; 

Vol.    II.,    1627-1628.     Vol.    IIL,    1629-1630.     Vol.    IV.,    1630-1632. 

Vol.    v.,    1633-1635.     Vol.    VL,    1635-1637.     Vol.    VIL,    16.38-1643. 

Vol.  VIIL,  1544-1600.  Edited  by  P.  H.  Brown,  M.A.,  LL.D.  15s.  each. 
5b.  Ditto,  Third  Series.     Vol.  I.,  1661-1664.     Edited  and  abridged  by  P.  H. 

Brown,  M.A.,  LL.D.      15s. 

6.  Rotuli    Scaccarii    Regum    Scotorum.     The    Exchequer    Rolls    of 

Scotland.  Vol.  L,  1264-1359.  Vol.  II.,  1359-1379.  Vol.  III., 
1379-1406.  Vol.  IV.,  1406-1436.  Vol.  V.,  1437-1454.  Vol.  VL, 
1455-1460.  Vol.  VIL,  1460-1469.  Vol.  VIIL,  1470-1479.  Vol.  IX., 
1480-1487.  Addenda,  1437-1487.  Vol.  X.,  1488-1496.  Vol.  XL, 
1497-1501.  Vol.XIL,  1502-1507.  Vol.  XIIL,  1508-1513.  Vol.  XIV., 
1513-1522.  Vol.  XV.,  1523-1529.  Vol.  XVL,  1529-1536.  Vol.  XVIL, 
1537-1542.  Vol.  XVIIL,  1543-1556.  Vol.  XIX.,  1557-1567.  Vol.  XX., 
1568-1579.  Vol.  XXL,  1580-1588.  Vol.  XXIL,  1589-1594. 
Vol.  XXIIL,  1595-1600.  Edited  by  J.  Stuart,  LL.D.  (Vol.  I.); 
G.  Burnett  (Vols.  I.  to  XIL)  ;  G.  Burnett  and  JE.  J.  G.  Mackay 
(Vols.  XIIL  and  XIV.)  ;  and  G.  P.  McNeil  (Vols.  XIV.  to  XXIIL) 
lO.s.   each. 

7.  Calendar   of   Documents   Relating   to   Scotland,    preserved  in   the 

Pubhc  Record  Office.  Edited  bij  .].  Bain.  Vol.  I.,  U08-1272.  Vol.  II., 
1272-1307.     Vol.   III.,    1307-1357.     Vol.   IV.,    1357-1509.      15s.   each. 

8.  Register  of  the  Great  Seal  of  Scotland.     Vol.  I.,    1306-1424  (se-: 

p.  21).  Vol.  IL,  1424-1513.  Vol.  IIL,  1513-1546.  Vol.  IV.,  1546- 
1580.  Vol.  v.,  1580-1593.  Vol.  VI. ,  1593-1608.  Vol.  VIL,  1609- 
1620.  Vol.  VIIL,  1620-1633.  Vol.  IX.,  1634-1651.  Vol.  X., 
1652-1659.  Edited  bi/  J.  B.  Paul  (Vol.  II.)  ;  J.  B.  Paul  and 
J.  M.  Thomson  (Vol.  III.);  J.  M.  Thomson  (Vols.  IV.  to  IX.);  J.  H. 
Stevenson,  M.A.,  and  W.  K.  Dickson,  M.A.  (Vol.  X.).      15s.  each. 

9.  The  Hamilton  Papers.     Letters  and  Papers  illustrating  the  Political 

Relations  of  England  and  Scotland  in  the  XVIth  Century.  Formerly 
in  the  possession  of  the  Dukes  of  Hamilton,  now  in  the  British  Museum. 
Edited  by  J.  Bain.      Vol.  I.,  1532-1543  ;   Vol.  IL,  1543-1590.    15s.  each. 

10.  Borders    of    England    and     Scotl.^nd.      Calendar    of     Letters    and 

Papers  relating  to  the  Affairs  of  the.  Preserved  in  Her  Majesty's 
Public  Record  Office,  London.  Edited  by  J.  Bain.  Vol.  I.,  1560- 
1594  ;    Vol.  IL      1595-1603.      15.s-.  each. 

11.  State   Papers  Relating  to   Scotland  and    Mary%   Queen  of  Scots. 

Calendar  of,  1547-1603.  Vol.  L,  1547-1563  ;  Vol.  IL,  1563-1569. 
Edited  by  J.  Bain;  Vol.  IIL,  1569-1571;  Vol.  IV.,  1571-1574; 
Vol.  v.,  1574-1581.     Edited  by  W.  K.  Boyd.      15s.  each. 

12.  Guide  to  the  Public  Records  of  Scotland.     By  M.   Livingstone, 

LS.O.      1905.     3s.  Qd. 

13.  Register  of  the  Privy  Seal  of  Scotland.     Vol.  I.,  1488-1529.   Edited 

hy  M.  Livingstone,  LS.O.      15s. 
Fac-similes  of  the  National  MSS.  of  Scotland.     Parts  I.  IL.  and  III. 
(Out  of  print.) 


36 


IRISH    EECORD     PUBLICATIONS. 


1.  Calendar  of  the   Patent  and  Close   Rolls  of  Chancery  in 

Ireland,  Henry  VIII.,  Edward  VI.,  Mary  and  Elizabeth, 
and  for  the  1st  to  the  8th  Year  of  Charles  I.  Edited  by 
J.  MoRRiN.     Vols.  I.,  II.,  and  III.      lis.  each. 

2.  Ancient  Laws  and  Institutes  of  Ireland. 

Vols.  I.,  II.,  III.,  Senclms  Mor.     Vols.  IV.,  V.  Brehon  Laws. 
Vol.  VI.     Glossary.      \Qs.  each. 

3.  Abstracts  of  the  Irish  Patent  Rolls  OF  James  I.     {Out  of  print.) 

4.  Annals  of  Ulster.      Otherwise  Annals  of  Senat,    a    Chronicle  of 

Irish  Affairs  from  431-1131,  1155-1541.  With  Translation  and 
Notes.  Vol.  I.,  431-1056.  Edited  by  W.  M.  Hennessy.  Vol.  II., 
1057-1131,  1155-1378;  Vol.  III.,  1379-1541;  Vol.  IV.,  Intro- 
duction and  Index.     Edited  by  B.  MacCarthy,  D.D.      10s.  each. 

5.  Charts,  Privilegia,  et  Imbiunitates,  being  transcripts  of  Charters 

and  Privileges  to  Cities,  Towns,  Abbeys,  and  other  Bodies  Cor- 
porate. 18  Henry  II.  to  18  Richard  II.  (1171-1395).  Printed 
by  the  Irish  Record  Commission,  1829-1830.      5s. 

6.  Justiciary    Rolls,    or     Proceedings    in    the    Court    of     the 

Justiciar  of  Ireland.  23rd  to  31st  years  of  Edward  I.  1295- 
1303.     Edited  by  J.  Mills.      15s. 

7.  Statutes  and   Ordinances,   and  Acts  of  the   Parliament  of 

Ireland.  Kitstg  John  to  Henry  V.  Edited  by  H.  F.  Berry, 
M.A.      10s. 


Fac-similes  of  National  Manuscripts  of  Ireland,  from  the 
earliest  extant  specimens  to  1719.  Edited  by  J.  T.  Gilbert. 
Part  I.  is  out  of  print  ;  Parts  II.  and  III.  21.  2s.  each ;  Part 
IV.— 1.     51.  5s.  ;     Part  IV.— 2.      U.  10s. 

This  work  forms  a  comprehensive  Palieographic  Series  for. 
Ireland.  It  fui'nishes  cliaracteristic  specimens  of  the  docu- 
ments wliich  have  come  down  from  each  of  the  classes  which, 
in  past  ages,  formed  principal  elements  in  the  population  of 
Ireland,  or  exercised  an  influence  in  her  affairs.  With  these 
reproductions  are  combined  fac-similes  of  writings  connected 
with  eminent  personages  or  transactions  of  importance  in  the 
annals  of  the  country  to  the  early  part  of  the  eighteenth  century. 

The  specimens  have  been  reproduced  as  nearly  as  possible  in 
accordance  with  the  originals,  in  dimensions,  colouring,  and 
general  appearance.  Characteristic  examples  of  styles  of  writing 
and  caligraphic  ornamentation  are,  as  far  as  practicable, 
associated  with  subjects  of  historic  and  linguistic  interest. 
Descriptions  of  the  various  manuscripts  are  given  by  the  Editor 
in  the  Introduction.  The  contents  of  the  specimens  are  fully 
elucidated  and  printed  in  the  original  languages,  opposite 
to  the  Fac-siuiiles — line  for  line — without  contractions — thus 
facilitating  reference  and  aiding  effectively  those  interested  in 
palaeograpliic  studies. 

In  the  work  are  also  printed  in  full,  for  the  first  time,  many 
original  and  important  historical  documents. 

Part  I.  commences  with  the  earliest  Irish  MSS.  extant. 

Part  II.     From  the  Twelfth  Century  to  1299. 

Part  III.     From  1300  to  end  of  reign  of  Henry  VI]  I. 

Part  IV. — 1.  From  reign  of  Edward  VI.  to  that  of  James  I. 

In  part  IV. — 2  the  work  is  carried  down  to  the  early  part 
of  the  eighteenth  century,  with  Index  to  the  entire  publication. 

Account  op  Fac-similes  of  National  Manuscripts  of  Ireland.  In 
one  Vol.,  with  Index.  10s.  Or  separately  :  Parts  I.  and  II. 
together,  2s.  6d.  ;  Part  II.  Is.  6d.  ;  Part  III.  Is.  ;  Part  IV.— 
1.  2s.  ;     Part  IV.— 2.      2s.  Qd. 


37 

ANNUAL    I{K1M)1{TS    OV    TIIK    l)KI>UTY   KKKPK|{ 
OF   TIIK    PUIiLK^    HK(X)HI)S.    IHKLANl). 


1809 

1 

1870 

2 

1871 

3 

1872 

4 

1873 

5 

1874 

(i 

1875 

7 

1876 

8 

1877 

9 

1878 

10 

1879 

11 

1880 

12 

1881 

13 

1882 

14 

1883 

15 

1884 

16 

Contents  of  the  Principal  Record  Re- 
positories of  Ireland  in  1864.— 
Notices  of  Records  transferred 
from  Chancery  Offices. — Irisli  State 
Papers  presented  by  Philadelphia 
Library  Company. 

Notices  of  Records  transferred  from 
Chancery,  Queen's  Beneli,  and 
Exchequer  Offices. — Index  to 
Original  Deeds  received  from 
Master  Litton's  Office. 

Notices  of  Records  transferred  from 
Queen's  Bench,  Cominon  Pleas,  and 
Exchequer  Offices. — Report  on  J.  F. 
Furguson's  MSS. — Exchequer  In- 
dices, &c. 

Records  of  Probate  Registries 

Notices  of  Records  from  Queen's 
Bencla  Calendar  of  Fines  and  Re- 
coveries of  the  Palatinate  of  Tip- 
perary,  1G64-1715. — Index  to  Re- 
ports to  date. 

Notices  of  Records  transferred  from 
Chancery,  Queen's  Bench,  and 
Common  Pleas  Offices. — Report 
respecting  "  Facsimiles  of  National 
MSS.  of  Ireland." — List  of  Chancery 
Pleadings  (1662-1690)  and  Calendar 
to  Chancery  Rolls  (1662-1713)  of 
Palatinate  of  Tipperary. 

Notices  of  Records  from  Exchequer 
and  Admiralty  Offices. — Calendar 
and  Index  to  Fiants  of  Henry  VIII. 

Calendar  and  Index  to  Fiants  of 
Edward  VI. 

Index  to  the  Liber  Munerum  Publi- 
corum  Hibernise.  —  Calendar  and 
Index  to  Fiants  of  Philip  and  Mary. 

Index  to  Deputy  Keeper's  6th,  7th, 
8th,  yth.  and  10th  Reports. 

Calendar  to  Fiants  ofElizabeth  (1558- 
1570). 

Calendar  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth,  con- 
tinued (1570-1576). 

Calendar  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth,  con- 
tinued (1576-1583). 

Report  of  Keeper  of  State  Papers  con- 
taining Catalogue  of  Common- 
wealth Books  transferred  from 
Bermingham  Tower. 

Calendar  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth,  con- 
tinued (1583-1586).— Index  to  De- 
puty Keeper's  11th,  12th,  13th,  14th 
and  15th  Reports. 

Calendar  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth,  con- 
tinued (1586-1595). 


C.  4157 


C.  137 

C.  329 

C.  515 

C.  760 

C.  963 


C.    1175 

C.  1469 
C.    1702 

C.  2034 
C.  2311 
C.  2583 
C.  2929 
C.  3215 

C.   3676 

C.   4062 


fl.   d. 

Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 

print. 

0     8 


Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 
print. 

Out  of 
print. 

Out  of 
print. 

Out  of 
print. 

Out  of 
print. 

Out  of 

print. 

1     5 

0     6i 


1     0 


1      6 


38 


Price. 


1885 

17 

1886 

18 

1887 

19 

1888 

20 

1889 

21 

1890 

22 

1891 

23 

1892 

24 

1893 

25 

1894 

26 

1895 

27 

1896 

— 

1896 

28 

1897 

29 

1898 

30 

1899 

31 

Report  on  Iron  Chest  of   Attainders  C.   4487 

following    after    1641    and    1688. — 

Queen's  Bench  Calendar  to  Fiants 

of  Ehzabeth,  continued  (1596  1601 ). 
Calendar  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth,  con-  C.   4755 

tinued  (1601    1603).      Memorandum 

on  Statements  (1702)  and  Declarons 

(1713-14)  of  Huguenot  Pensioners. 
Notice  of  Records  of  Incumbered  and  C.   5185 

Landed  Estates  Com-ts. — Report  of 

Keeper  of  State  Paj^ers,   containing 

Table    of   Abstracts    of    Decrees    of 

Innocence  (1663),   with   Index. 
Calendar    to    Clii'ist    Church     Deeds  C.   5535 

in    Novum    Registrum,    1174-1684. 

Index  to  16th,  17th,  18th,  19th,  and 

20th  Reports. 
Index  to  Calendars  of  Fiants  of  the         C.  5835 

reign  of  Queen  Elizabeth.     Letters 

A— C. 
Catalogue    of    Proclamations,     16 IS-         C.   6180 

1660. 

Index  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth.    D — Z.        C.   6180-i. 
Catalogue    of    Proclamations,     1661-  C.   6504 

1767. — Calendar   to   Cln'ist  Church 

Deeds,  1177-1462. 
Catalogue    of     Proclamations,     1767-  C.   6765 

1875.     Contents  of  the  Red  Book 

of    the    Exchequer.       Calendar    to 

Christ  Chiu-ch   Deeds,    1462-1602. 
Regulations  respecting  State  Papers.  C.   7170 

Instructions     for     Parochial     Cus- 
todians.      Index    to    21st    to    25th 

Reports. 
Abstract      of       Antrim      Inquisition,  C.   7488 

3   James   I.,    Bankruptcy   Records, 

1857-1872;     Early    Plea    Rolls    to 

51  Edward  III. 
Index  to  the  Act  or  Grant  Books,  and       C.   7488-i. 

to  Original  Wills,  of  the  Diocese  of 

Dublin  to  the  year  1800. 
Records  from  Coiu'ts  and  Offices  trans-  C.    7802 

ferred    to,    and    dejjosited    at,    the 

Public  Record  Office  in  Ii-eland. 
Index  to   Calendars   of  Christ  Church  C.   8080 

Deeds,     1174    1684,     contained     in 

Appendices  to  20th,  23rd,  and  24th 

Reports. 
(1.)  Report  on  the  Early  Plea  Rolls,  C.   8163 

continued  from    51    Edward    HI.; 
(2.)  Table  showing  present  Custodies 

of  Parochial  Records. 
Copy  and  Translation  of  Five  Instru-  C.   8567 

menL.s    of    Record    in    the    Public 

Recoi'd  Office  of  Ireland,  written  in 

the    Irish    Character    and    Tongue, 

1584-1606. 
Report  on    MSS.    of   Sir  T.    PhilHps'  C.   9030 

Library  ;   Index  to  Deputy  Keeper's 

26th  to  30th  Reports. 
Report  of  Proceedings,  and  Appendix  C.    9478 

(1.)  Corrections    to    the    Addenda    to 

the      Dublin      Grants      Index      in 

Appendix  to  the  26th  Report : 
(2.)  Notes  on  the  Departmental  Letters 

and     Official      Papers,     1760-1789. 


s.    d. 
1      6 


1      ] 


0     6 


0     8i 


1     0 


0     2\ 


2     0 
1     1 


0     9| 

0     3 

0     U 

Out  of 
print. 

0     2i 
0     5J 

0     5^ 

0     3 

0     U 

0     5i 


39 


Date. 


No. 

of 
Report 


Chief  Contents. 


N...  of 
I'lipoi'. 


Price. 


1900 
1900 

1901 


32 


'^'^ 


1902 


1903 


1904 


1905 


1906 


34 


35 


36 


38 


1907 


1908 


1909 


39 


40 


41 


Index  to  tlie  Act  or  Grant  Book  and 
Original  Wills  of  the  Diocese  of 
Dublin  from   1800-1858. 

Report  of  i'rocoodinga  and  Appendix. 
— Report  on  the  Records  of  the 
ClerUs  of  the  Crown  and  Peace 
transferred  prior  to  1900. 

Report  of   I'roceedinj^s  and  Appentlix 

(1.)  Notes  on  Manuscript  Volinnes 
connected  with  the  Irish  Revenue, 
the  Court  of  Trustees  of  Forfeited 
Estates,  &c.,  in  the  possession  of 
Earl  Annesley  ; 

(2.)  Report  on  the  Books  of  the 
Treasury  and  Accounting  Depart- 
ments in  Ireland. 

Report  of  Proceedings  and  Appendix 

(1.)  List  of  Maps  presented  by  Com- 
missioners of  Woods  and   Forests  ; 

(2.)  Report  on  Register  of  Irregular 
Marriages,  1799-1844. 

Report  on  Proceedings  and  Appendix 

(1.)  Regulations  as  to  access  to  Mili- 
tary Records  ; 

(2.)  Records  found  in  former  Record 
Oflice  ; 

(3.)  Catalogue  of  Accounts  in  the  Pipe 
Rolls  ot  Irish  Exchequer,  Henry  III. 

Report  of  Proceedings  and  Appendix 
Catalogue  of  Acounts  in  the   Pipe 
Rolls  of  the  Irish  Exchequer,!  to  12 
Edward  I. 

Report  of  Proceedings  and  Appendix 
Catalogue  of  Accounts  in  the  Pipe 
Rolls  of  the  Irish  Exchequer, 
15-22  Edward  I. 

Report  of  Proceedings  and  Appendix 

(1.)  Rules  for  admission  to  the  use  of 
the  Records  ; 

(2.)  Catalogue  of  Accounts  in  the  Pipe 
Rolls  of  the  lrisl\  Exchequer,  25  to 
33  Edward  I. 

Report  of  Proceedings  and  Appendix. 
Catalogue  of  Accounts  in  the  Pipe 
Rolls  of  the  Irish  Exchequer,  1  to  10 
Edward  II. 

Report  of  Proceedings  and  Appendix 

(1.)  Report  on  certain  Records  trans- 
ferred from  former  Land  Estates 
Record  Office  ; 

(2.)   Index  to  Reports  XXXI.-XL. 

Report  of  Proceedings  and  Appendix 
(1.)  List  of  Parishes  for  which  Regis- 
ters of  Baptisms  are  preserved  in 
Record  Office. 
(2.)  List  of  Parishes  for  which  Returns 
to  Visitations  supply  deficiencies  in 
Parish  Registers. 


Cd.  4 
Cd.  274 

Cd.   729 


Cd.    1170 


Cd.    1.504 


Cd.  3726 


Cd.  4312 


Cd.  4857 


a.    d. 

4     7 


0     6 


0     5 


0     2i 


0     3 


Cd. 

2234 

0     4| 

Cd. 

2708 

0     3 

Cd. 

3162 

0     51 

0     4 


0     2i 


0      2 


DA  25  .D319  V.12  IMS 
Great  Britain.  Public  Record 
Calendar  of  the  close  rolls 
preserved  in  the  Public  Reco 


I 


PONTIrlCAU   INSnTOr* 
OF    MEDIAEVAL   STUDIE€ 

59    OJEEN'S     PARK 


