LIBRARY  SHr^         H^J 


IFFICfi  OF  H.M,  PROCDRATOR  GENERAL 

AND  TREASURY  SOLICITOR 
JL^  H  ;3  R  A  M  IT   -»- — » — 


s/ 


^^>-^-^'^^-*^*% 


{  1  ^  " 


?,^0:yio,    00'>'* 


""*"^^*ilji* 


.  A*^ 


.* 


CA  L  E  N  1)  A  II 


OF    THE 


C  LOS  E    It  DLLS. 


PRESERVED    IN    THE 


PUBLIC  RF.rORl)   OFFICE. 


PREPARED    UNDER    THE    SUPERINTENDENCE    OF 

THE  DEPUTY  KEEPER  OF  THE  RECORDS. 


EDWAKD  III. 

VOL.   XIIL 

A.D.  1369— 1374. 


PUBLISHED    BY    AUTHORITY    OF    HIS    MAJESTYS    PRINCIPAL    SECRETARY    OF    STATE 

FOR   THE    HOME    DEPARTMENT. 


LONDON : 
PUBLISHED    BY    HIS    MAJESTY'S    STATIONERY    OFFICE. 

To   be   purchased,   either   directly   or   through   any   BookseUer,   from 

WYMAN  &  SONS,  Ltd.,  Fetter  Lane,  E.G.;  or 

OLIVER  &  BOYD,  Tweeddale  Court,  Edinburgh;  or 

E.  PONSONBY,  Ltd.,  116    Grafton  Street,  Dublin. 


PRINTED    BY 

THE  HEREFORD  TIMES  LIMITED,   Maylord  Street,  Hereford. 


1911. 


CONTENTS 


Page 
Preface       ......  v 

Corrigenda  to  Vol.  XTT.  ....  vii 

Calendar  .....  1 

General  Index  ....  617 


(V) 


PREFACE. 


The  present  volume  forms  part  of  a  series  of  Calendars 
of  the  Close  Rolls  from  the  reign  of  Edward  I.  to  that 
of  Edward  IV.,  the  object  and  character  of  which  are 
explained  in  the  Preface  to  the  first  volume  for  the  reign  of 
Edward  II.  (a. d.  1307-1313).  The  text  has  been  prepared, 
with  the  sanction  of  the  Lords  Commissioners  of  His 
Majesty's  Treasury,  by  Mr.  W.  H.  B.  Bird,  B.A.,  and  the 
Index  has  been  compiled  by  Mr.  C.  T.  Flower,  M.A.,  of 
this  Office. 

H.  C.  MAXWELL  LYTE- 

Public  Record  Office, 
November^  1911. 


1 


(vii) 


CORRIGENDA    TO    VOLUME    XII. 


INDEX, 
p.  522,  insert  Bolas  Magna,  Boulewas  [co.  Salop],  manor  of,  18,  14. 
p.  524,  Tit.  Boulewas.     For  Buildwa.s  read  Bolas. 
p.  529,  dele  Bnildwas,  Boulewas  [co.  Salop],  manor  of,  13,  14. 


CALENDAK 

OF 

CLOSE    EOLLS. 


43    EDWARD    III. 


13G9.  Membrane  35. 

Jan.  26.  To  William  de  Mulsho  and  John  dc  Ncwenham  chamberlains  of 
Westminster,  the  exchequer,  John  de  Thorp  warden,  Walter  de  Bardes  master  of  the 
king's  mint  in  the  Tdwer  of  London,  Eustace  de  la  Tour  keeper  of  tlie 
touch  there,  John  de  NorthA\ych  and  Nicholas  de  Twyford  goldsmiths 
of  the  city  of  London.  Commission  and  command  to  assemble  in  the 
To^^er  at  a  set  day  to  be  by  them  appointed,  to  survey  certain  vessels 
of  silver  and  girdles  of  gold  and  assay  the  same  by  the  touch  and 
other\A'ise,  and  to  certify  in  chancery  under  their  seals  \\hat  they 
shall  so  find,  sending  again  tliis  writ ;  as  the  king  is  informed  that 
William  de  IMonte  Acuto  earl  of  Salisbury  has  caused  the  said  vessels 
and  girdles  to  be  new  made  by  certain  goldsmiths  of  the  said  city, 
and  tliat  the  same  are  not  of  so  good  gold  and  silver,  metal  and  alloy 
as  they  ought  to  be,  Mherefore  tliey  are  liable  to  be  forfeit  to  the 
king  according  to  the  ordinance  and  to  the  king's  charter. 

Et  end  patens. 

[Feed  era.] 

Jan.  28.  To  the  sheriff  of  Leycester.  Order  to  repair  in  person  to  the  com- 
VVestminster.  mon  pasture  of  Boresworth  and  there  make  inquisition,  and  if  thereby 
it  be  found  that  after  the  first  measurement  the  said  pasture  was 
unlawfully  overcharged  by  John  atte  Welle  and  Roger  Pakeman,  to 
make  answer  at  the  exchequer  for  their  beasts  so  put  upon  the  said 
pasture  over  and  above  the  number  due,  or  for  the  price  thereof,  remov- 
ing such  overcharge  ;  as  Richard  Beller  has  shewn  the  king  that  he 
lately  took  a  writ  for  measurement  of  the  common  pasture  aforesaid 
which  was  unlawfully  overcharged  by  the  said  John  and  Roger,  that 
by  order  of  the  king  the  sheriff  measured  the  same  according  to  custom, 
and  that  after  that  measurement  the  said  John  and  Roger  have  again 
unlawfully  overcharged  the  same  contrary  to  the  statute. 

Jan.  2G.  To    William    de    Catesby    escheator   in    Leycestershire.     Order    to 

Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  ^\^tl^  the  manor 
of  Gloveston,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  it  is  found 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  WiUiam  atte  More  late  escheator,  that 
Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  Roland  Daneys  tenant  in  chief,  being 
tenant  for  life  of  the  said  manor  of  the  heritage  of  John  Daneys 
cou.sin  and  heir  of  the  said  Roland,  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship, 
aliened  the  same  in  fee  to  Robert  de  Haryngton,  by  virtue  whereof 
the  tenants  of  the  manor  attorned  tenants  to  tlie  said  Robert  to  the 
prejudice  and  disherison  of  the  said  heir  ;  and  now  John  de  Radeclyve 
Wt.  19C10— H.T.  Ltd.— 400.  •  cr  1 


s 


CALENDAR   OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1309^  Membrane  35 — cont. 

vicar  of  Evyngton  has  petitioned  tlie  king  for  restitution  of  the  said 
manor  taken  into  the  kind's  hand  by  reason  of  tlie  pretended  ahenation 
aforesaid,  as  the  said  Ehzabeth  did  not  ahen  the  same  to  the  said 
Robert,  but  by  her  writing  produced  granted  it  to  him  the  said  vicar 
to  hokl  during  her  Ufc  ;  and  the  king  would  not  that  the  said  vicar  be 
unh\\\  fully  ousted  from  possession  thereof  without  an  answer. 

Jan.  29.  To   John   de   Ciessyngham    escheator   in    Essex.     Order   to   cause 

Wffitnunstor,  John  brother  and  heir  of  Richaid  Sayer  son  and  heir  of  John  Sayer  to 
have  seisin  of  the  lands  of  his  father,  which  came  to  the  king's  hands 
by  his  deatli  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  Richard,  m  ho  died 
within  a<ic  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  are  yet  in  his  hand  by  reason 
of  the  nonage  of  the  said  John  brother  of  Richard  ;  as  the  said  Jolm 
Sayer  deceased  was  tenant  of  the  king  as  of  the  honour  of  Hakenet 
now  in  the  king's  hand  by  the  service  of  rendering  lOs.  a  year  to 
the  ward  of  Dovorre  castle,  and  the  said  John  the  son  proved  his 
age  before  Roger  de  \\'olfreton  late  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken 
his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [27727.] 


Feb.  16.  To  Robert  de  Twyford  escheator  in  Notynghamshire.     Order  to 

Wostminster.  take  the  fealty  of  Roger  Belers  knight  according  to  the  form  of  a 
schedule  enclosed,  and  to  deliver  to  him  12  messuages  and  12  virgates 
of  land  in  Boncye  held  in  chief  by  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's 
fee,  which  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Alice  who 
■was  wife  of  Roger  Belers,  together  witli  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as 
the  king  has  learned  l)v  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
said  Alice  at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  nor  of  any 
other  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  premises  for  life  of  the 
gift  of  Richard  de  Whatton  late  parson  of  Wydemerpole  made  with  the 
king's  licence,  with  remainder  to  Roger  Belers  knight  (yet  living) 
for  his  life. 


Feb.  16.  To   William   do   Catesby   escheator   in   Leycestershire.     Order  not 

Westminster,  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Kirkeby  upon  Wrethek,  a 
messuage  and  one  virgate  of  land  in  Little  Dalby  and  2s.  of  rent  in 
Holwell  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Alice  who  was  wife 
of  Roger  Belers,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king 
lias  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Alice 
at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as 
of  fee,  but  held  the  premises  of  the  gift  of  John  Cousin  late  warden  of  the 
chapel  of  St.  Peter  upon  Wrethek  to  the  said  Roger  and  Alice  and  to 
the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the 
king. 


Feb.  16.  To  Richard  de  Wideville  escheator  in  Roteland.  Order  to  take  the 
Westminster,  fealty  of  Roger  Belers  knight,  son  and  heir  of  Roger  Belers  tenant 
in  chief  of  the  late  king,  according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed, 
and  to  cause  him  to  have  seisin  of  the  manor  of  Stretton  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Alice  who  was  wife  of  Roger  Belers 
the  father;  as  lately  the  age  of  the  said  Roger  the  son  was  proved, 
and  the  king  respited  his  homage  and  rendered  to  him  his  said  father's 
lands  then  in  the  king's  hand  by  his  father's  death  and  by  reason  of 
bis  own  nonage ;    and  now  it  is  foimd  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 


43    EDWARD    III. 


130)0.  Membrane  35 — coiit. 

cscheator,  that  th(>  said  Alice  at  lier  death  held  the  said  manor  in 
dower  of  his  licritage  by  assif^nment  of  the  kinff,  and  that  tlie  same  is 
lield  in  chief  by  knight  service  ;  and  of  his  favour  the  king  has  respited 
the  homage  of  the  said  Roger  until  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next. 

Membraxe  34. 

Jan.  28.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  •  Order  to  allow 

Westminster,  at  the  exchequer  to  the  now  bishop  of  i:iy  70G/.  1 3s.  4d.  for  the  stock 
of  the  bishopric  in  the  527/.  0«.  4\fl  due  from  him,  and  the  417/.  11.9.  GUI. 
due  from  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  cathedral  church  of  Ely  to  the 
king  according  to  their  accounts  rendered  at  the  exchequer  for  the 
issues  of  the  temporalities  of  the  bisliopric  by  reason  of  the  last  vacancy 
thereof,  when  by  divers  successive  commissions  the  said  temporalities 
were  in  their  hands,  as  is  found  by  certificate  of  the  treasurer  and 
barons  made  in  chancery  at  the  king's  command,  thereof  discharging 
as  weW  the  said  bishop  as  the  said  prior  and  convent ;  as  in  con- 
sideration that  the  stocks  of  the  said  bishopric  therein  used  of  long 
time,  consisting  of  471  oxen,  292  stots  and  41  cart  horses,  were 
destroyed  by  default  of  Thomas  de  Insula  late  bishop  and  by  his 
long  abode  and  death  in  the  court  of  Rome,  and  unless  provision  be 
made  for  other  stock  the  same  "would  for  ever  be  lost  for  that  his  next 
successor  received  and  might  receive  nought  thereof,  and  has  left 
nothing  as  he  was  bound  to  leave  nothing  to  his  successor,  by  reason 
of  his  devotion  towards  St.  Etheldreda  the  king  of  his  favour  and  for 
the  salvation  of  his  soul  has  by  letters  patent  granted  of  his  treasury 
(erario)  to  God  and  the  church  of  Ely  to  the  use  and  advantage  of 
the  now  bishop  and  his  successors  706/.  13s.  4d.  that  the  said  stocks 
be  therewith  brought  again  to  their  former  state  and  remain  to  the 
said  bishop  and  to  his  successors  to  all  time,  to  wit  471  oxen  at  20s. 
a  head,  292  stots  at  13s.  id.  a  head,  and  41  cart  horses  at  20s.  each. 
Proviso  that  answer  be  made  to  the  king  for  the  residue  of  the 
sums  due  of  the  said  issues  from  the  bishop  and  the  prior  and  convent, 
namely  the  portion  falling  upon  either  of  them  over  and  above  the 
said  stock. 

Feb.  5.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Somerset  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  John  Brice,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Feb.  20.  To  John  de  Cressyngham  escheator  in  Essex.  Order  to  cause 
Westminster.  John  de  Goldynton  and  Joyce  his  wife,  LaAM-ence  de  Pabenham  and 
Elizabeth  his  wife,  and  AMlliam  de  Bernak  and  Mary  his  wife  to  have 
livery  of  a  rent  of  one  pair  of  gilt  spurs  price  6(7.  to  be  taken  of  the 
manor  of  Upmynstrc,  and  of  the  advowson  of  Upmynstre  church, 
saving  her  dower  thereof  to  Katherine  who  was  wife  of  Thomas 
Dengayn  knight  tenant  in  chief  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  at  his  command  by  Roger  de  \Volfreton  late  escheator,  that  the 
said  Thomas  at  his  death  was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  the 
rent  and  advo^\son  aforesaid  ^^•hich  are  not  held  of  the  king,  and  that 
the  said  Joyce,  Elizabeth  and  Mary  are  his  sisters  and  next  heirs, 
and  are  of  full  age  ;  and  at  another  time  the  king  commanded  a 
partition  to  be  made  of  the  lands  which  the  said  Thomas  held  in  chief, 
and  livery  of  their  respective  purparties  to  be  given  to  tlie  said  John 
and  Joyce,  Lawrence  and  Elizabeth  and  William  and  Mary. 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


13G9.  Membrane  34 — cont. 

Jan.  29.  To  Jolm  de  Cressyngham  escheator  in  Suffolk.     Order   to  cause 

Westminster.  William  son  and  heir  of  \Villiain  Criketot  kniglit  {militis)  tenant  in  chief 
to  have  seisin  of  his  .said  father's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
hia  death  ;  as  the  said  William  the  son  proved  his  age  before  Roger 
de  W'olfreton  late  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and 
fealty.  By  p.s.  [27726.] 

Jan.  26.  To  the  abbot  of  Eourney.s.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Wostminstcr.  in  his  court  by  assent  of  his  men  and  tenants  instead  of  Adam  Taillour 
of  Ulverston  ;  as  on  16  March  in  tlic  11th  year  of  his  reign,  learning 
that  in  times  past  divers  men  were  lost  in  the  passage  over  the  sands 
between  the  parts  of  Fourneys  co.  Lancaster  and  other  neighbouring 
parts  at  the  ebb  and  flow  of  the  sea  water  A\hicli  there  runs  swiftly 
and  powerfully  and  for  divers  other  causes,  upon  whose  bodies  and 
upon  the  bodies  of  others  slain  in  the  parts  of  Fourneys  and  dying 
for  other  causes  heretofore  the  coroner's  office  was  not  duly  executed 
for  that  the  coroners  there  dw  elt  afar  off,  the  king  by  charter  granted 
to  the  said  abbot  and  convent  that  tliey  and  their  successors  for  ever 
by  writs  of  chancery  to  be  to  the  abbot  addressed  should  have  a 
coroner  in  their  lands  and  fees  of  Fourneys,  to  be  elected  as  aforesaid 
and  to  execute  his  office  in  the  said  lands  and  fees  ;  and  the  said 
Adam  their  coroner  is  dead,  as  the  king  has  learned. 

Feb.  6.  To  Thomas  de  Musgrave  escheator  in  Northumberland.     Order  to 

Westminster,  take  of  Christiana  who  Avas  the  wife  of  John  Wendout  tenant  in  chief 
an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to 
assign  her  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  his  death,  sending  the  assignment  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery 
as  usual. 

Membbane  33. 

Feb.  10.  To    Thomas    de    Musgrave    escheator    in    Cumberland.     Order,    if 

Westminster,  assured  by  inquisition  or  otherwise  that  a  place  in  Kirkandres  with 
the  wood  and  lands  adjoining,  whereof  in  the  time  of  the  late  king 
mention  is  made  in  the  process  hereinafter  rehearsed,  and  the  lands 
in  Kirkandres  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  Jolm  de  Scotherskelf 
late  escheator  are  one  and  the  same,  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and 
not  to  meddle  further  therewith,  making  full  restitution  to  the  abbot 
of  St.  Mary  York  of  any  issues  thereof  taken  by  himself  or  the  late 
escheator  ;  as  lately  the  king  ordered  the  late  escheator  to  certify 
in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  lands  of  the  prior  of  Wederhale 
in  Kirkandres  were  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  he  returned 
that  he  found  by  inquisition,  by  him  taken  of  his  office,  that  Andrew 
de  Harcla  at  his  death  was  seised  in  fee  to  him  and  his  heu's  of  certain 
lands  in  Kirkandres  by  Blenkarne,  that  he  forfeited  by  adhering  to 
the  Scots  the  king's  enemies,  that  the  said  prior  and  his  successors 
without  the  king's  licence  occupied  those  lands  from  the  said  Andrew's 
death,  and  that  tliey  are  worth  .30s.  a  year,  wherefore  the  late  escheator 
took  the  same  into  tlie  king's  hand  ;  and  now-  the  said  abbot,  to 
whom  the  said  priory  is  subject  being  a  cell  of  his  abbey,  and  to  whom 
it  pertains  to  substitute  one  of  his  monks  for  governance  thereof  aad 
to  remove  him  at  will,  has  informed  the  king  that  Simon  his  pre- 
decessor granted  and  demised  the  said  lands  to  Michael  de  Harcla 
knight  (father  of  the  said  Andi'ew  who  was  his  heir)  and  Joan  his 
wife  and  to  the  said  Michael's  heirs  for  405.  yearly  payable  to  the  said 


43    EDWARD    III. 


1369.  Membrane  33 — cont. 

prior,  that  aftci-  by  reason  of  Aiulrcw  's  forfeiture  the  same  were  taken 
into  the  late  king's  liand  by  liis  tlien  esclieator,  wliereforc  the  abbot 
at  that  time  sued  against  the  late  king  for  the  said  rent  to  him  due 
aecording  to  the  said  demise,  that  so  by  process  thereupon  made 
the  said  lands  were  restored  to  the  said  abbot  to  hold  at  the  late  king's 
will  for  that  by  extent  then  made  they  did  not  exceed  the  yearly 
value  of  205.,  and  so  from  that  restitution  the  abbot  and  his  pre- 
decessors ever  peaceably  held  the  same  until  they  were  by  the  late 
esclieator  sei/x'd  into  the  king's  hand,  praying  for  removal  of  the  king's 
hand  ;  and  by  view  of  the  chancery  rolls  the  king  is  assured  that,  at 
the  suit  of  the  then  abbot  alleging  that  Simon  his  predecessor  by 
writing  indented  granted  to  the  said  Micliael  a  place  of  the  said  Simon 
called  Kirkandres  with  the  wood  and  lands  adjoining  the  same,  which 
lands  and  wood  \\\i\\  a  certain  hanger  ('pendenti)  called  Prestebank 
in  the  territory  of  Neubyggyng  and  a  cuUura  of  land  which  the  said 
abbot  Simon  had  there  were  by  Adam  son  of  Swan  and  Alexander  de 
Crevquer  given  in  frank  almoin  to  the  abbot  of  St.  Mary  York  and  the 
monks  of  Holy  Trinity  and  St.  Constantine  W'ederhale,  to  hold  to  the  said 
Michael  and  Joan  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  of  the  said  Michael  of  the 
said  Simon  and  his  successors  rendering  40^.  yearly  to  the  prior  of  his 
cell  of  W'ederhale  for  the  time  being,  one  moiety  at  Whitsuntide  and 
the  other  at  Martinmas  for  all  claims  and  demands,  saving  to  the 
said  monks  the  tithes  thereof  arising  every  year  great  and  small  and 
the  obventions  due  and  accustomed,  and  though  he  and  his  predecessors 
from  the  date  of  that  writing  were  fully  seised  of  that  rent  by  the 
hands  of  the  said  AndreA\'  and  of  Michael  his  father  as  tenants  of  the 
premises,  he  had  not  obtained  payment  thereof  since  the  time  when 
the  same  with  other  the  lands  of  the  said  Andrew  by  his  forfeiture 
came  to  the  late  king's  hands,  and  alleging  that  the  late  king  by  writ 
commanded  Anthony  de  Lucy,  then  keeper  of  the  said  Andrew's  lands 
in  the  said  king's  liands  by  his  forfeiture,  if  these  things  were  so,  to 
pay  to  the  said  abbot  the  arrears  of  the  said  rent  from  the  time  the 
premises  so  came  to  the  king's  hands,  and  to  pay  the  same  at  the 
accustomed  terms  so  long  as  they  sliould  be  in  the  king's  hand  and 
in  his  keeping,  and  further  alleging  that  the  said  Anthony  returned  that 
all  things  in  the  said  A\Tit  contained  in  regard  to  the  grant  made  by 
abbot  Simon  to  the  said  Michael  and  the  said  rent  were  true,  that  the 
said  Simon  and  his  successors  were  peaceably  seised  of  the  said  rent 
until  the  premises  came  as  aforesaid  to  the  said  king's  hands,  and 
that  he  might  not  be  contented  of  the  arrears  nor  of  the  said  rent 
for  that  the  said  place  and  lands  adjoining  were  not  nor  in  the  time 
of  the  said  Simon,  Michael  and  Andi'ew  used  to  be  of  more  value  than 
20s.  a  year,  but  because  the  same  was  near  a  town  of  the  said  Michael 
called  Colgayth,  fit  to  dwell  in  and  to  himt  there,  the  said  Michael 
[made  there]  a  manse  for  him  and  his  heirs  [and]  arrented  the  said 
place,  woods  and  lands  at  40s.  for  ever  payable  to  the  said  abbot  and 
his  successors,  the  said  late  king,  in  consideration  that  tlie  value  of  the 
premises  did  not  amount  to  so  mucli  as  the  rent  payable,  by  another 
WTit  commanded  the  said  Antony  in  recompense  for  the  said  rent  to 
cause  Uvery  of  the  premises  to  be  given  to  the  then  abbot  to  hold  at 
the  king's  \\ill. 

Feb.  15.  To  the  justiciary,  chancellor  and  treasurer  of  Ireland.     Order,  upon 

Westminster,  petition  made  on  behalf  of  John  Wogan,  if  at  Easter  next  or  sooner 

he  shall  come  to  Ireland  there  to  abide  upon  the  defence  of  the  country 


A  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


18t)l).  Membrane  33—cont. 

and  of  his  lands  accordinj^  to  the  ordinance  last  made,  and  if  his  said 
lands  are  in  the  king's  hand  because  of  tlic  said  ordinance  and  for  no 
other  cause,  to  cause  him  without  delay  to  have  restitutitm  and  livery 
thereof  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  in  tlie  mean  time  by  them  or  other 
the  king's  niinisters,  to  hold  as  before  they  were  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  ;  as  the  said  j)etiiion  shews  tliat  the  said  John  abode  con- 
tinually upon  his  lands  in  Ireland  until  tlie  coming  of  Lionel  duke  of 
Clarence  the  king's  son  and  lieutenant  in  Ireland,  tliat  \\ith  his  men 
at  his  own  cost  he  stood  with  the  said  duke  no  small  time  upon  the 
war  against  the  king's  enemies,  taking  nothing  of  the  king,  until  news 
came  that  he  would  lose  his  lands  in  Wales  unless  he  should  speedily 
remove  tliither,  when  \\ith  the  said  duke's  licence  he  departed  for 
the  recovery  and  defence  of  his  said  lands,  came  to  Wales,  and  there 
abode  as  need  was  at  the  command  of  his  superiors  as  well  for  defence 
of  AN'ales  as  of  his  said  lands,  and  that  while  so  he  was  in  Wales 
his  lands  in  Ireland  Avere  long  ago  by  the  justiciary,  chancellor  and 
treasurer  and  other  the  king's  ministers  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
for  that  he  w-as  not  in  Ireland  in  person  upon  the  defence  thereof, 
although  he  left  there  men  sufficient  for  their  defence,  and  the  perils 
in  \A'ales  being  ended  hastened  upon  his  passage  to  Ireland,  but  three 
times  in  crossing  the  sea  thitlier  was  by  storm  driven  back  to  land  in 
\\'ales,  praying  for  restitution  thereof,  as  he  is  now  ready  to  cross 
over  in  person  to  Ii'eland  and  there  abide  with  men  at  arms  and  archers 
according  to  his  estate  for  defence  of  Ireland  and  of  his  lands  there 
against  the  king's  enemies  according  to  the  ordinance  new  made  by 
the  king  and  council.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Feeder  a.] 

Feb.  20.  AA'illiam  de  Lenne  chaplain,  imprisoned  in  Karliol  prison  for  an 

Westmiiistor.  alleged  trespass  of  venison  in  the  forest  of  Ingelwode  whereof  he  is 
indicted,  has  a  Avrit  addressed  to  William  Latymer  keeper  of  the  king's 
forest  beyond  Trent  or  to  his  representative  in  the  said  forest,  to 
put  him  on  bail  until  the  next  coming  of  the  justices  in  eyre  for  pleas 
of  the  forest  in  Cumberland. 

Feb.  12.  To  William  de  Aeon  sheriff  of  York.     Order  at  liis  peril  to  remove 

Westminster.  Thomas  de  Thorp  clerk  from  the  office  of  sheriff's  clerk,  and  to  appoint 
another  in  his  room  without  delay  ;  as  in  the  statute  published  at 
Westminster  in  the  42nd  year  of  the  reign  it  is  contained  [inter  alia) 
that  no  sheriff's  clerk  shall  remain  in  office  longer  than  one  year,  and 
the  said  Thomas  was  sheriff's  clerk  within  York  castle  with  John 
Chaumon  late  sheriff  last  year,  as  the  king  has  learned  by  credible 
witness.  Writ   on   the   statute. 

Membrane  32. 
Feb.  16.  To   the   sheriff   of   York.      Order   to  attach  Thomas  de  Spaigne, 

Westminster.  A\'ilham  de  Rilleston  and  Hemy  son  of  William  de  Hertlyngton  by 
their  bodies  so  as  to  have  them  before  the  king  in  the  quinzaine  of 
Easter  next  to  answer  for  the  contempts  by  them  committed,  and 
further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court  shall  determine,  bringing 
tills  writ,  also  to  cause  William  de  Hertlyngton  to  have  full  livery  of 
all  lands  occupied  as  hereinafter  mentioned  by  the  said  Thomas, 
A\'ilham  de  Rilleston  and  Hemy,  to  hold  according  to  the  king's  letters 
patent  and  the  judgment  of  parliament,  taking  to  him  for  the  purpose 
the  posse  comitatus  if  need  be,  arresting  and  safe  keeping  tinti!  the 


43    i:i)\\  AJID    III. 


1309.  Membrane  32 — cont. 

king  be  contented  of  tlie  issues  of  the  said  lands  or  until  further  order 
all  goods  and  chattels  thereupon  found  without  diminution,  and 
certifying  in  chancery  under  his  seal  in  the  quinzaine  aforesaid  what 
he  has  done  in  the  nuitter  ;  as  lately  the  king  by  letters  patent  com- 
mitted to  Tliomas  de  Spaignc  the  keeping  of  the  manor  of  Braham 
and  of  certain  lands  in  Folyfayt,  Spofford,  Braham,  Brampton 
in  Thomes  and  Little  Dunsford  co.  York  which  were  of  William 
de  Hertlyngton  and  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  reason 
of  his  adherence  to  Gilbert  de  I\Iiddelton  a  traitor  to  the  late 
king  as  it  was  said ;  and  after  the  said  William  was  acquitted 
of  his  adherence  aforesaid,  and  by  other  letters  patent  the  king 
gave  to  Richard  Stury  and  to  his  heirs  in  fee  the  manors  of 
Hertlyngton  and  Braham  and  certain  other  lands  in  Braham,  Folyfayt 
by  Braham  and  Little  Dunsford  which  were  of  the  said  William  and 
were  by  John  de  Scotherskelf  late  escheator  a  second  time  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  alleged  adherence  of  Henry  de  Hert- 
lyngton father  of  the  said  WiUiam  to  the  said  Gilbert  and  to  Goscelin 
Dayville  traitors  to  the  late  king  in  their  treasons  ;  and  after  for 
particular  causes  shewn  before  the  king  and  council  in  the  last  parlia- 
ment, with  the  assent  of  the  said  parliament  the  king  revoked  the  said 
letters  patent  made  to  the  said  Thomas  and  Richard,  and  by  other 
letters  patent  committed  to  the  said  William  [de  Hertlyngton]  the 
keeping  of  all  the  manors  and  lands  to  them  given  and  granted  with 
the  issues  thereof  taken  from  the  time  they  were  taken  into  his  hand  ; 
and  many  times  the  king  ordered  the  said  escheator  to  cause  the 
same  to  be  taken  again  into  his  hand  and  livery  thereof  to  be  given 
to  the  said  William  together  with  the  said  issues  according  to  the 
said  judgment  of  parliament  and  to  the  form  of  those  letters  patent, 
or  to  shew  cause  wherefore  he  disdained  to  obey  the  commands  so 
many  times  to  him  addressed,  and  he  returned  that  he  caused  execu- 
tion of  the  said  wi'it  to  be  made  by  Roger  de  Quixleye  his  subescheator, 
who  by  the  king's  writ  dated  20  May  last  gave  the  said  William  de 
Hertlyngton  livery  of  the  said  manors  and  lands,  namely  at  Braham 
on  the  feast  of  Michaelmas  last,  and  at  Hertlyngton  on  Sunday  before 
St.  Wilfred  following,  and  that  the  said  Wilham  was  by  such  livery 
peaceably  seised  thereof,  certain  tenements  in  Haghenlyth  and 
Hertlyngton  excepted  which  the  said  William  de  Rilleston  and  Hem-y 
son  of  the  said  WiUiam  de  Hertlyngton  hold  by  power,  not  suffering 
him  hitherto  to  enter  or  take  any  j)rofits,  the  livery  given  him  by  the 
said  Roger  notA\ithstanding,  and  as  to  livery  of  the  said  issues  the 
said  escheator  says  that  from  the  time  the  premises  w'ere  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  the  said  Thomas,  William  de  Rilleston  and  Hemy  son 
of  \A'illiam  and  other  persons  unknown  in  their  name  have  taken  and  had 
all  issues  upon  the  premises,  doing  their  will  therewith,  so  that  neither 
the  said  escheator  nor  any  other  in  his  name  took  or  had  any  issues  or 
profits  thereof  at  any  time  ;  and  in  consideration  that  the  things  done 
by  the  said  Thomas,  Wilham  de  Rilleston  and  Hem-y  are  in  contempt 
of  the  king  and  to  his  i)rejudice  it  is  the  king's  will  that  such  con- 
tempt pass  not  unpunished. 


Membrane  31. 

March  4.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Lincohi  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 
Westminster,  of  William  Bayard,  w  ho  is  insufficiently  qualified. 


S  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


13(;9  Membrane  31 — cont. 

Jan.  12.  To  tlie  sheriff  of  Stafford.      Order  to  cau.se  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Wostmiuster.  instead  of  Thomas  de  Pipe,  who  lias  no  lands  or  tenements  in  the 
county  in  fee  where  he  may  dwell  for  exercise  of  that  office. 

Jan.  23.  To  the  sheriff  of  Worcester.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Tliomas  de  Hanleye,  who  is  dead. 

To  the  same.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead  of 
Richard  de  Lenche,  who  is  dead. 

To  the  same.     Order  to  catise  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead  of 
Thomas  de  Clypston,  who  is  dead. 

Feb.  6.  To  the  sheriff  of  Essex.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Geoffrey  Dersham,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Feb.  5.  To  the  slieriff  of  Lincoln.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  John  de  Cotes,  who  is  insufficiently  quahfied. 

Jan.  27.  To  the  [.same]  sheriff.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  John  Glaumville,  \\iio  is  sick  and  aged. 

Jan.  20.  To  the  sheriff  of  Dorset.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  \\'altcr  Belet,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

April  6.  To  the  sheriff  of  Surrey.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  William  de  Sydeney,  who  is  dead. 

March  7.         To  the  sheriff'  of  Middlesex.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Robert  Gy,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

May  6.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Jolm  de  Little  Cotes,  who  is  sick  and  aged. 

April  28.         To  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be 
Westminster,  elected  instead  of  Hemy  Pudel,  who  is  dead. 

April  25.         To  the  sheriff  of  Berkshire.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Jolm  de  Ekton,  who  is  infirm  and  aged. 

April  16.         To  the  sheriff  of  Devon.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Stephen  Potel,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

April  16.         To  the  sheriff  of  Hertford.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Richard  Heyle,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

June  28.         To  the  sheriff"  of  Lincoln.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Eustace  de  Aswell,  who  is  dead. 

June  15.         To  the  sheriff  of  Devon.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  John  de  Oreweye,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

June  1.  To  the  sheriff  of  Essex.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  John  Hert,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 


43    EDWARD    TIT.  ft 


13C)0.  Membrane  31 — cont. 

June  23,         To  the  sheriff  of  Lincohi.     Order  to  eause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminstor.  instead  of  Robert  dc  Hohii,  a\  ho  is  disquahfied  by  sickness. 

Oct.  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Devon.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Ricliard  Gripeston,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

June  28.         To  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Walter  Apethorp,  who  is  dead. 

July  18.  To  the  sheriff  of  Bukingham.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Richard  Durant,  who  is  dead. 

Oct.  20.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  John  de  Ireby,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
instead  of  John  de  Alanb3^  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Order  to  the  slieriff  of  York  to  cause  two  verdcrers  in  the  forest  of 
Galtres  to  be  elected  instead  of  Marmaduke  Darel  and  John  de  Thweng, 
who  are  dead. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  CJumberland  to  cause  verderers  in  the  forest 
of  Ingelwode  to  be  elected  instead  of  \\'illiain  de  Laton,  Clement  de 
Crofton,  John  de  Raghton  and  John  Butycombe,  who  are  dead. 

Nov.  20.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Thomas  Clerk,  who  is  dead. 

Membrane  30. 
Feb.  16.  To  John  dc  Cressyngham  escheator  in  Essex.     Order  to  cause  the 

Westminster,  manor  of  Wigeberglx  to  be  taken  again  into  the  king's  hand,  together 
w  ith  the  issues  tliereof  since  the  insufficient  proof  of  the  age  of  William 
son  and  heir  of  William  de  Septvans  made  before  John  de  Tye  late 
escheator  irf  Kent,  and  to  be  safe  kept  vmtil  further  order,  so  tliat 
answer  be  made  at  the  exchequer  concerning  those  and  all  other  issues 
thereof  arising  ;  as  on  Tuesday  before  St.  George  in  the  40th  year  of 
the  reign  it  was  found  by  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command, 
and  by  other  evidences  produced  before  tlie  king  in  chancery,  that  at 
the  time  of  the  said  proof  the  said  ^Villiam  the  son  was  not  of  full  age, 
for  that  at  the  feast  of  St.  Augustine  the  l^octor  then  next  to  come 
he  was  of  tiie  age  of  20  and  no  more,  and  so  tlic  said  proof  was  not 
duly  and  lawfully  made,  and  by  view  of  his  body  before  the  king 
and  all  the  council  in  full  })arliament  holden  at  AVestminster  on 
Monday  the  morrow  of  the  Invention  of  Holy  Cross  in  the  said 
40th  year  and  by  examination  had  it  appeared  to  the  council  that  he 
was  within  age,  wherefore  it  was  in  the  said  parliament  determined  tliat 
all  the  lands  of  his  father  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of 
his  nonage  and  by  colour  of  that  insufficient  proof  to  him  delivered 
as  being  of  full  age,  to  whose  hands  soever  they  were  come,  with  the 
issues  tliereof  taken  from  the  time  of  the  said  proof,  should  be  seized 
again  and  remain  in  the  king's  hand  until  his  full  age,  and  that  all 
charters,  writings,  bonds  of  statutes  merchant,  of  the  staple  and  other 
bonds  and  recognisances  by  him  heretofore  made  should  be  annulled  ; 
wherefore  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  of  Essex  to  give  notice  to  John 


10  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1;J00.  Membrane  30 — rant. 

atte  Lee  knij);lit,  then  tenant  of  the  said  manor,  w  hicli  the  said  heir  aliened 
to  Richard  de  Hurst  and  to  his  heirs  and  the  said  Richard  gave  to  the 
said  John  and  liis  heirs  as  it  was  said,  to  be  before  tlie  king  in  cliancery 
in  the  (juinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  last  to  shew  cause  wherefore  tlie  same 
with  other  the  lands  of  the  said  William's  heritage  delivered  as  afore- 
said out  of  the  king's  hand  should  not  be  seized  again  into  the  king's 
hand  according  to  the  judgment  of  parliament,  wherefore  the  charter 
and  wi-itings  to  the  said  Kicliard  made  should  not  be  annulled,  and 
wlierefore  the  said  Joim  ought  not  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  issues 
thereof  from  the  time  of  such  livejy,  and  further  to  do  and  receive 
what  the  court  should  determine  in  that  behalf;  and  the  slieriff 
returned  in  chancery  that  he  gave  notice  accordingly  to  the  said  John, 
and  according  to  the  warning  so  given  the  said  John  came  in  chancery 
by  John  de  W'ermyngton  his  attorney  and  said  nought,  and  being 
after  called  came  not,  wherefore  it  was  determined  that  the  said 
manor  and  the  issues  thereof  from  tlie  time  of  the  said  proof  should 
be  taken  into  the  king's  hand. 

Feb.  21.  To   John   de   Cressyngham   escheator   in   Essex.      Order   to   cause 

Westminster,  ^\'illiam  son  and  heir  of  William  de  Septvans  tenant  in  chief  to  have 
seisin  of  his  father's  lands  which  are  in  the  king's  hand  for  the  reason 
hereinafter  rehearsed  ;  as  lately  proof  of  the  said  heir's  age  was  made 
before  John  de  Tye  escheator  in  Kent,  and  the  king  took  his  homage 
and  fealty  and  rendered  to  liiui  his  father's  lands  ;  and  after  on  finding 
as  well  by  view  of  his  body  as  by  examination  of  divers  credible 
persons  of  his  blood  and  of  many  others,  and  by  divers  inquisitions  read 
in  his  presence  in  full  parliament  holden  at  Westminster  on  the  morrow 
of  the  Invention  of  Holy  Cross  in  the  40th  year  of  the  reign,  that  the 
said  proof  was  not  true,  and  that  on  the  morrow  of  St.  Augustine 
the  Doctor  then  next  he  would  be  of  the  age  of  20  years  and  no  more, 
it  was  in  the  said  parliament  determined  that  the  said  proof  was  of 
none  effect,  that  all  the  lands  of  his  said  father  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  reason  of  his  nonage  and  to  him  delivered  by  colour  of  the 
said  insufficient  proof  of  his  age,  to  whose  hands  soever  they  were 
come,  should  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  from  the  time  of  that 
proof  be  seized  again  and  remain  in  the  king's  hand  until  the  lawful 
age  of  the  said  heir,  and  that  all  charters,  writings,  bonds  of  statute 
merchant  and  of  the  staple  and  other  wTitings  and  recognisances  by 
him  made  should  be  annulled  ;  by  virtue  of  which  judgment  all  the 
said  lands  were  seized  again  into  the  king's  hand  to  remain  as  afore- 
said, and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  and  because  two  years  and  more  have 
passed  since  the  said  feast  of  St.  Augustine,  and  so  it  is  plain  that 
the  said  William  the  son  is  of  i\\\\  age,  the  king  has  taken  his  homage 
and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [27756.] 

The  like  to  John  de  Bisshopeston  escheator  in  Kent. 

Feb.  20.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne. 

Westminster.  Order  to  make  full  restitution  to  certain  merchants  of  Almain,  Spruce, 
Seland  and  Flanders  of  their  goods  and  chattels  taken  and  detained 
by  the  collectors  by  reason  of  the  custom  of  3f/.  in  the  pound  ;  as 
lately  the  king  ordered  the  collectors  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause 
wherefore  they  took  the  same  into  the  king's  hand,  and  they  certified 
that  certain  ships  laded  with  goods  of  men  and  merchants  of  the  parts 
aforesaid  touched  at  that  port  ow  ing  to  a  storm,  and  they  exposed  none 
of  the  goods  for  sale,  but  thinking  that  the  said  men  and  merchants 


43    EDWARD    lit. 


11 


13G9.  Membrane  30 — cont. 

ouglit  to  pay  tlie  king  that  custom  thereupon,  tliey  took  a  certain 
part  of  the  same  for  naam  and  are  cletaining  them  until  the  king  be 
contented  of  those  customs;  and  the  king  c(nLsideis  the  taking  and 
witliholding  thereof  insufficient. 

Feb.  27.  Order  to  tiie  sheriff  of  Essex  to  cause  a  verdercr  of  tlie  forest  of 

Westminster.  \\'aUhani  to  be  elected  instead  of  Thomas  do  Helpesjton,  wlio  is  dead. 

Feb.  8.  To  the  mayor  and  l>aihlfs  of  Kiistol  and  tlie  collectors  of  customs 

Westminster,  in  that  port.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Richard  Spicer,  John  Piers 
and  certain  other  merchants  of  Bristol,  to  view  the  letters  of  cocket 
for  14  lasts  of  ox  hides,  and  if  assured  that  they  bought  the  same 
in  Ireland  and  paid  to  the  collectors  of  customs  in  Iicland  the  custom 
thereupon  due,  to  suffer  them  to  lade  the  said  hides  in  the  port 
of  Bristol  and  without  payment  of  custom  to  take  them  to  the  king's 
staple  of  Calais  ;  as  their  petition  shews  that  they  bought  those  hides 
in  Ireland,  and  caused  them  to  be  laded  in  divers  ports  of  Ireland 
and,  after  payment  of  the  customs  due,  as  may  a})pear  by  the  king's 
letters  patent  under  the  cocket  seals,  to  be  brought  to  the  king's 
staple  of  Bristol,  praying  licence  there  to  lade  them  and  without  a 
second  payment  of  custom  to  take  them  to  Calais  to  trade  and  make 
their  advantage  thereof. 

Feb.  6.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Bristol  and  the  kee])ers  of  the  passage 

Westminster,  in  that  port.  Order  to  suffer  the  servants  of  \Mlliam  de  W'yndesore 
without  let  to  lade  in  the  said  port  100  quarters  of  wheat  and  take  tliem 
to  the  port  of  Lyverpole,  any  command  of  the  king  to  the  contrary 
notwithstanding,  certifying  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Lyverpole  by 
letters  under  the  common  seal  of  the  town  that  the  said  servants 
have  so  done,  and  that  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Lyverpole  shall 
receive  the  said  corn  of  them  b}'  indenture,  taking  oversight  that 
the  same  be  there  spent  upon  the  maintenance  of  the  said  A\'iniam's 
men  and  not  taken  out  of  the  town  ;  as  the  king  is  sending  the  said 
William  with  a  set  number  of  men  at  arms  and  archers  to  Ireland 
on  his  service,  and  has  granted  him  power  by  his  servants  to  lade 
so  much  wheat  at  Bristol  and  bring  it  to  Lyverpole,  where  the  kmg 
lias  commanded  shipping  to  be  assembled  for  their  passage,  for  main- 
tenance of  those  men  while  there  abiding,  and  tlie  said  William 
has  mainpeined  before  the  king  under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof  that 
it  shall  be  brought  to  Lyverpole  and  nowhere  else.  By  C. 

April  2.  To  the  sheriff  of  Oxford.     Order  to  make  incjuisition  what  and  liow 

Westminster,  many  weirs,  mills,  stanks,  stakes  and  kiddles  whereby  the  passage 
of  ships  and  boats  may  be  hindered  are  set  up  in  the  river  Thames 
between  Rotecote  and  Henle  upon  Thames,  by  whom  and  in  what 
manner,  and  to  cause  all  such  as  w  ere  there  set  up  in  and  after  the  time 
of  King  p]d\\ard  I  to  be  abated  and  removed,  according  to  the  statute 
published  at  Westminster  in  the  25th  year  of  the  reign,  whereby  it 
was  ordered  and  agreed  (among  other  things)  that  all  such  weirs, 
mills,  stanks,  stakes  and  kiddles  set  up  upon  the  great  rivers  of  England  in 
and  after  the  said  king's  time  be  removed  and  altogether  abated 
without  that  that  they  be  anywise  again  set  up  ;  as  now  the  king 
is  informed  that  great  number  of  them  are  now  newly  set  up  in  the 
said  river  to  the  hurt  of  the  people  of  those  parts  and  contrary  to  the 
said  statute. 


H  CAl.KXDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


13(59  Membrane  29. 

Manl)  19.        To  tlic  isclicator  in  Devon.     Order  to  cau.se  Thomas  son  and  heir 

WoMtiuiiister.  of  John  I5('aucliani|)  oi  Kyni  tenant  i.i  cliief  to  liave  .seisin  of  his  said 

father's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  ;    as    he    lias 

|)!Ov<'(l  his  a<.'e  before  William  Cheyne  escheator  in  Dorset,  and  the 

k\i\\i  has  taken  his  homajre  and  fealty.  By   p.s.   (27784.1 

May  14.  To  Thomas  de  I\lusgrave  escheator  in  ("nmberland.     Order  to  cause 

Wosiminsttr.  Kieluvrd  son  and  heir  of  Hiehard  Kirkbride  tenant  in  chief  to  have 

seisin    of   his  said  father's  lands  taken  into  the  king's   hand   by  his 

death  ;    as  the  said  heir  has  prov'ed  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and 

the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [27857.] 

March  3.  To  Richard  de  W'ydeville  escheator  in  Roteland.  Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  liand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Kilthorp 
and  its  appurtenances  in  Kilthorp,  Keten  and  Weston  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Thomas  Deyncoujt  knight,  delivering 
to  Jiobert  Deyncourt  his  brother  any  if-sues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said 
Thomas  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  liis  demesne 
as  of  fee  noi-  in  service,  but  held  the  said  manor  and  appurtenances 
of  others  than  the  king  of  the  gift  of  the  said  Robert  to  him  and  the 
heirs  male  of  his  body,  with  reversion  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the 
said  Robert  and  his  heirs,  and  that  the  said  Thomas  died  Anthout 
an  heir  male  of  his  body. 

April  16.  To  Richard  de  Wydeville  escheator  in  Xorhamptonshire.  Order 
Westminster,  not  to  meddle  further  w  ith  the  manor  of  Kilthorp  and  its  appurtenances 
in  Kilthorp,  Keten  and  AVcston  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the 
death  of  Thomas  Deyncourt,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
the  said  Thomas  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief 
in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  reversion,  but  held  the  said  manor 
and  appurtenances  of  the  gift  of  Robert  Deyncourt  his  brother, 
confirmed  by  William  Deyncourt  their  father,  to  the  said  Thomas 
and  the  lieirs  male  of  his  body,  with  reversion  for  lack  of  such  an 
heir  to  the  said  Robert  (yet  living)  and  to  his  heirs,  and  that  the 
same  is  not  held  of  the  kins. 


*e" 


April  28.  To  John  de  Bisshopeston  escheator  in  Kent.  Order  to  take  the 
Westminster,  fealties  of  Nicholas  Damory  knight  and  John  Lenne  clerk  according 
to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  give  them  livery  of  the 
manor  of  Brabourne  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of 
Katherine  countess  of  Athole,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken 
from  the  time  of  her  death  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Katherine  at  her  death  held  no 
lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  by  grant 
of  David  de  Strabolgy,  son  and  heir  of  David  de  Strabolgi  sometime  her 
husband,  made  with  the  king's  licence,  she  held  the  said  manor,  which 
is  held  in  chief  by  knight  service,  in  name  of  dower  after  her  said 
husband's  death,  ^^ith  reversion  to  the  said  Nicholas  and  John  and 
to  their  heirs  ;  and  the  king  has  respited  until  Michaelmas  next  the 
homage  of  the  said  Nicholas  and  John. 


43    EDWARD   III.  13 


1369.  Membrane  29 — cont. 

April  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln.  Order  to  receive  by  indenture  the  body 
Westminster,  of  Hufjh  de  Kernyngton.  whom  Nicholas  dc  \\'erk  took  \\ith  false 
bulls,  letters  and  processes  sealed  with  counterfeit  seals,  and  delivered 
to  the  sheriff  to  be  kept  for  a  time  in  safe  custody  in  the  prison  of 
Lincoln  ca.stle,  and  the  body  of  Hugh  de  Sulgrave,  whom  at  the  suit 
of  the  said  Nicholas  the  baihfTs  of  ^^'elton  by  Lincoln  of  the  chapter 
of  Lincoln  took  with  the  like  false  bulls,  letters  etc.  and  are  there 
detaining  in  prison,  with  the  said  bulls,  letters  etc.  and  the  horses  and 
harness  with  them  arrested,  and  to  deliver  by  indenture  to  the  said 
Nicholas  their  bodies  and  the  said  bulls  etc.,  horses  and  harness  to 
be  brought  before  the  council,  in  order  that  the  king  may  do  further 
wixat  shall  seem  good  to  the  council  for  punishment  of  the  said  forgeries. 
The  king  has  commanded  the  said  bailiffs  to  deliver  by  indenture 
to  the  slieriff  the  said  Hugh  de  Sulgrave  with  the  said  bulls,  horses 
harness  etc.  By  C. 

April  25.         To   ^Valter  de  Kelby   escheator  in  Lincolnshire.     Order  to  cause 

Westminster.  John  son  and  heir  of  Hugh  Cokheved  of  Barton  tenant  in  cjliief  to  have 

seisin  of  h.is  said  father's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his 

death  ;    as  the  said  John  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and 

the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [27822.] 

April  10.  To  the  bailiffs  of  the  chapter  of  Lincoln.  Order  under  pain  of 
Westminster,  forfeiture  and  of  the  king's  wrath,  to  deliver  without  delay  to  the 
sheriff  of  Lincoln  Hugh  de  Sulgrave,  whom  at  the  suit  of  Nicholas 
de  Werk  they  have  taken  with  false  bulls,  letters  and  processes 
sealed  with  counterfeit  .seals,  and  the  said  bulls  etc.,  his  horses  and 
harness  ;  as  the  king  has  commanded  the  sheriff  to  receive  him  by 
indenture  and  send  him  before  the  council,  in  order  that  the  king  may 
there  do  what  shall  by  advice  of  the  council  seem  good  for  punishment 
of  that  forgery.  By  C. 

May  5.  To    John    de    Bis.shopeston    escheator    in    Kent.     Order    to    cause 

Westminster.  Thomas  atte  Welle,  brother  and  heir  of  William  atte  Welle  tenant 

in  chief,  to  have  seisin  of  his  said  brother's  lands  taken  into  the  king's 

hand  by  his  death  ;    as  the  said  Thomas  has  proved  his  age  before 

the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty. 

Feb.  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Bukingham.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Lawrence 

Westminster.  Palmere  of  Norhampton.  if  John  A\'alker  of  Mounsorel  is  at  his  suit 
and  for  no  other  cause  taken  and  imprisoned  under  the  sheriff's 
custody,  to  deliver  him  by  indenture  to  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton 
or  to  his  attorney  with  his  attachments  to  be  brought  to  the  gaol  of 
Norhampton  castle  and  there  kept  in  safe  custody  until  justice  be 
done  conceining  him  ;  as  the  said  petition  shews  that  the  said  John 
stole  a  horse  and  other  goods  and  chattels  of  the  said  Lawrence  at 
Norhampton,  that  upon  the  new  commission  of  that  felony  the  said 
Lawrence  pursued  him  within  the  county  of  Bukingham,  and  caused 
him  to  be  taken  and  imprisoned  under  custody  of  the  sheriff  thereof, 
and  that  the  said  John  may  not  conveniently  be  judged  within  that 
county,  praying  that  he  may  be  delivered  as  aforesaid  to  the  sheriff 
of  NorhamiDton.  The  king  has  commanded  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton 
to  receive  the  said  John  and  keep  liim  in  safe  custody  in  the  said  gaol 
until  he  shall  thence  be  delivered  according  to  law. 


14 


CALENDAR  OK  CLOHK  ROLLS. 


13(jt)  Membrane  29 — cont. 

April  27.  'J'o  the  coUeetois  of  customs  of  the  town  of  Lenne.  Order,  upon  the 
Wostminster.  petition  of  John  I^asset,  to  suffer  liini  or  liis  servants  to  lade  in  tliat 
j)Oit,  and  after  payment  of  the  customs  thereupon  due  to  take  to  foreijrn 
j)arts  w  hither  he  will  to  make  his  advantage  thereof,  16  tuns  of  old 
AN ine  vhich  are  so  weak  that  they  may  not  be  sold  in  tlic  realm,  any 
command  to  the  collectors  formerly  addressed  to  the  contrary  not- 
\\itlistanding  ;  as  the  king  has  granted  the  said  John  licence  so  to 
do  because  it  is  witnessed  before  the  king  in  chancery  by  ^^'illiam 
Strete  the  king's  butler  that  the  premises  are  true. 

Membrane  28. 
Feb.  20.  Older  to  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  John  de  Hustyng'.  who  is  insufficiently  quaUfied. 

INLarch  0.  To  tlie  .slierift"  of  York  for  the  time  being.  Order  of  the  issues  of  his 
Westmiiistor.  bailiwick  to  pay  Thomas  Fyftimyle  the  arrears  of  '2d.  a  day  from 
20  December  in  the  29th  year  of  the  reign,  and  to  pay  him  that  sum 
every  day  henceforward  during  his  life,  taking  his  acquittance  for  every 
payment ;  as  on  the  da}^  mentioned  the  king  of  his  favour,  for  the 
good  service  of  the  said  Thomas  and  for  that  he  was  maimed  in  the 
king's  office  so  that  he  may  not  help  himself,  by  letters  patent  granted 
him  'Id.  a  day  for  life  for  his  maintenance  to  be  taken  of  the  issues 
of  the  said  county  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  for  the  time  being. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Feb.  4.  Order  to  the  sheriff'  of  AN'arrewyk  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  \\'illiam  ^^'aldeyeve,  who  is  dead. 

IMarch  19.        To  Luke  de  Ponynges  keeper  of  Pambere  forest,  or  to  his  representative 
Westminster,  there.     Ordei'  to  deliver  by  indenture  to  Adam  de  Hertyndon  the  king's 
clerk,  clerk  of  his  works  at  AVyndesore  castle,  to  the  king's  use,  as 
many  oaks  as  he  will  select  in  the  said  forest  and  as  shall  be  needed  for 
the  said  works.  By  C. 

The  like  to  Helmyng  Leget  keeper  of  Wyndesore  forest,  or  to  bis 
representative  there,  to  deliver  to  the  said  Adam  as  many  oaks  as 
he  will  select  in  the  king's  park  of  Gildeford  within  the  precinct  of  the 
said  forest.  By  C. 

March  24.        To  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton.     Order  to  cause  two  verderers  in 
Westminster,  the  forests  of  W'olmere  and  Absolt  to  be  elected  instead  of  Ralph  de 
Norton  knight  and  Richard  de  Westcote  ;   as  they  have  sailed  to  parts 
over  sea  upon  the  king's  service. 

May  8.  To   William    Banastre   of   Yorton   escheator   in   Salop.     Order   to 

Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor 
of  Gateacre  and  hamlet  of  Sutton  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
Philip  de  Lutteleye  late  escheator,  delivering  to  Alice  who  was  wife 
of  Thomas  de  Gateacre  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  the  king 
ordered  the  late  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore 
the  lands  of  the  said  Thomas  were  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand, 
and  he  returned  that  he  so  took  the  said  manor  for  that  he  found 
by  inquisition,  before  him  taken  of  his  office,  that  Geoffrey  de  Gateacre 
father  of  the  said  Thomas  at  his  death  A\as  elsewhere  tenant  in  chief, 
namely  of  the  said  hamlet  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  by  knight  service, 
that  he  died  5  October  in  the  19th  year  of  the  reign,  that  after  his 


43    EDWARD    III.  15 


1369.  Membrane  28— cont. 

death  the  said  Thomas  liis  son  and  hen-  entered  as  well  the  said  hamlet 
as  the  said  manor  without  doing  homage  and  fealty  to  the  king  nor 
paying  his  relief,  and  so  oeeupied  tlie  premises  without  due  process  ; 
and  after  at  the  suit  of  the  said  AUce,  w  iio  held  the  premises  jointly 
with  her  said  husband  as  she  averred,  alleging  that  the  said  Geoffrey 
father  of  Thomas  w  hose  heir  he  was,  and  all  the  ancestors  of  the  said 
Tliomas  tenants  thereof,  held  the  said  hamlet  by  knight  service  of 
William  la  Zouche  of  Haryngworth  and  not  of  the  king,  and  praying 
the  removal  of  his  hand,  the  king  sent  the  record  and  process  of  tliat 
cause  to  be  before  him  debated  ;  and  it  was  found  by  in(|uisition 
thereupon  nuide  that  the  said  hamlet  is  held  of  the  said  \Villiam 
la  Zouche  and  not  of  the  king,  that  the  said  Geoffrey  and  all  the 
ancestors  of  the  said  Tliomas,  who  was  joint  tenant  witli  the  said 
Alice,  held  the  same  time  out  of  mind  of  \Villiam  la  Zouche  and  of  his 
ancestors,  wherefore  it  was  determined  that  the  king's  hand  should 
be  removed,  and  the  premises  with  the  issues  meantime  taken  sliould 
be  delivered  to  the  said  Alice. 

May  10.  To  the  same.      Order  to  remove  the  king's  liand,  and  not  to  meddle 

Wostminstor.  further  with  lands  and  rent  in  Great  Litlie  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  Pliilip  de  Lutteleye  late  escheator,  delivcing  to  Alice  late  the 
wife  of  I'homas  de  Gateacre  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king 
lately  ordered  the  said  late  esclieator  to  certify  in  chancery  tlie  cause 
wherefore  the  manor  of  Great  Lithe,  which  A\'as  of  the  said  Thomas, 
was  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  he  returned  that  he  so 
took  lands  and  rents  there  worth  40.s.  a  year  for  that  he  found  by 
inquisition,  before  liim  taken  of  his  office,  that  Geoffrey  de  Gateacre 
at  his  death  held  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  the  hamlet  of  Sutton  in 
chief  by  knight  service,  and  held  the  said  lands  and  rents  of  Edward 
le  Botjller  by  the  service  of  2.s.  a  year,  and  that  Thomas  de  Gateacre 
son  of  the  said  Geoffrey  entered  the  said  hamlet,  lands  and  rents  with- 
out doing  homage  and  fealty  to  the  king,  not  paying  his  relief  or  any 
other  service  due  for  the  same,  and  that  he  occupied  tlie  premises 
taking  the  rents  and  profits  thereof  from  his  said  father's  death  to 
the  taking  of  the  said  inquisition,  namely  from  5  September  in  the 
19th  year  of  the  reign  to  10  November  in  the  41st  year  ;  and  at  another 
time  at  the  suit  of  the  said  Alice  etc.  {as  above). 

Membuane  27. 
April  20.  To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.  Order  to  stay  altogether  the  allow- 
Westminster.  ance  of  the  king's  letters  patent  of  protection  with  the  clause  volumus 
granted  to  Fulk  de  Pembrugge  knight,  if  tendered  before  them,  sending 
the  same  to  be  cancelled  in  chancery  ;  as  for  particular  causes  the 
king  has  revoked  the  said  letters  which  he  lately  granted  to  the  said 
Fulk  in  the  belief  that  he  was  about  to  sail  to  Aquitaine  on  the  king's 
service.  -  By  K. 

May  2.  The  like  to  the  said  justices  to  stay  the  allowance  of  like  letters 

Westminster,  granted  to  Thomas  Travers. 

The  like  to  the  slieriffs  of  London.  By  K. 

April  30.         To  John   de   Evesham   escheator   in   the   county   of   Suthampton. 

Westminster.  Order  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage  and  30  acres  of    land 

in  Ouergate  which  came   to   the  king's  hancls  by  the  death  of   John 

Reison  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  Thomas  liis  son  and  heir  and 


16 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


13G9.  Membrane  27 — cont. 

are  yet  in  the  king's  liand  ;  as  tlie  king  iias  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John  held  the  premises  by  knight 
service  of  the  lieir  of  William  de  l^otreaux  tenant  in  cliief,  lately 
within  age  and  in  the  king's  w  ardship,  tliat  they  came  to  the  king's  hands 
by  the  said  John's  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said 
Thomas,  who  died  witliin  age  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  are 
yet  in  his  hand,  and  that  Eleanor  wife  of  John  Pyke  and  Margery 
wife  of  William  Cook,  sisters  of  th.e  said  John  Reison  and  aunts  of 
tlie  said  Tiiomas,  are  his  next  heirs  and  of  full  age  ;  and  on  27  Septem- 
ber in  the  '^'^rd  year  of  his  reign  the  age  of  William  son  and  heir  of 
^Villiam  Botreaux  was  proved,  and  the  king  took  his  homage,  and 
commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  his  said  father's  lands. 

Membrane  26. 
April  22.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  stay 
Westminster,  their  demand  nxade  by  exchequer  summons  upon  Adam  Fraunceys 
to  make  a  fine  to  the  king  for  his  trespass  in  not  taking  upon  him  the 
order  of  knighthood  according  to  the  proclamation,  or  for  that  which 
jiertains  to  the  king  in  that  behalf,  discharging  the  said  Adam  thereof  ; 
as  the  king  of  his  favour  has  pardoned  the  si  id  Adam  that  trespass 
cn<i  any  fine  he  .shall  be  bound  to  make  to  the  king  for  that  cause, 
altliough  it  was  certified  in  chancery  that  he  had  40Z.  a  year  of  land 
and  rent  and  did  not  within  the  time  appointed  take  upon  him  the 
said  order.  Bv  K. 


April  26.  To  the  sheriff  of  Somerset  and  Dorset  for  the  time  being.  Order 
Westminster,  of  the  i.ssues  cf  those  counties  to  pay  to  Walter  Triilowe  one  of  the 
king's  hunters  the  arrears  of  4d.  a  day  from  16  March  in  the  42nd 
year  of  the  reign,  and  to  pay  him  that  sum  every  day  hence- 
forward during  his  life,  taking  his  acquittance,  according  to  the 
king's  letters  patent  of  the  date  aforesaid,  granting  to  the  said  Walter 
of  the  king's  favouf  for  his  good  service  4(Z.  a  day  for  life  or  until  other 
order  should  be  taken  for  his  estate,  to  be  taken  of  the  issues  of  the 
said  counties  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  for  the  time  being. 
Et  erat  patens. 

April  25.         Order  to  the  shei'iff  of  Berkshire  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  John  de  Ektone,  w^ho  is  infirm  and  aged. 

April  28.         Order  to  the  sheriti'  of  Hereford  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be   elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Robert  Basset,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

April  30.  To  Tliomas  de  Musgrave  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  certain  tenements 
in  Barneby  by  Mulgreve  and  100  arces  of  land  in  Eggeton,  delivering 
to  the  prior  of  Grosmont  (de  Grandi  Monie)  in  Eskedale  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  the  king  commanded  William  de  Nessefcld 
late  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  the  lands 
of  the  said  prior  in  Eggeton  and  Barneby  aforesaid  were  by  him 
taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  he  certified  that  he  found  by  inquisition, 
before  him  taken  of  his  office,  that  in  the  time  of  King  Edward  I 
Peter  de  I\Ialo  Lacu  the  third,  who  lield  the  manor  of  Eggeton  in 
chief  by  knight  service,  thereof  aliened  without  the  king's  licence  to 
the  prior  of  Grosmont  aforesaid  and  to  his  successors  100  acres  of 
waste  land  in  Eggeton  worth 'in  .all  issues,    as   in  herbage,  85.  4d.  a 


43    EDWARD    TIT.  17 


1369.  Membrane  26 — cont. 

year,  and  likewise  certain  tenements  in  Barneby  aforesaid  worth 
135.  id.  a  year,  wherefore  he  took  the  same  into  the  king's  hand  ; 
and  the  said  prior  lias  in  chancery  produced  letters  patent  of  the 
said  king  granting  licence  to  the  said  Peter  to  give  to  the  prior  and 
brethren  of  the  said  house  and  to  their  successors  20/.  of  land  in 
Blakehou  moor,  averring  that  the  premises  are  parcel  of  the  land  given 
by  virtue  thereof,  and  praying  restitution  of  the  same  ;  and  the  king 
appointed  John  Moubray,  Thomas  de  Ingelby,  William  de  Fyncheden 
and  Roger  de  Fulthorp,  three  and  two  of  them,  tomake  inquisition 
touching  the  circumstances,  and  by  inquisition  taken  before  the  said 
John,  William  and  Roger  it  is  found  tlint  the  premises  are  in  Blakeliou 
moor  and  parcel  of  the  land  given  by  the  licence  aforesaid. 

Membrane  25. 

April  26.  To  \^'alter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Order  to  cause 
Westminster.  Ralph  son  of  Ralph  de  Shelton,  cousin  and  heir  of  Hugli  Burgilon 
tenant  of  the  king  by  knight  service  as  of  the  honour  of  Albemarle, 
to  have  seisin  of  the  said  Hugh's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  his  death  ;  as  the  said  Ralph  has  proved  his  age  before  John 
de  Cressyngham  escheator  in  NortTolk,  and  the  king  has  taken  his 
homage   and   fealty.  By   p.s.    [27824,] 

May  12.  To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Wiltesir.  Order  to  take  of 
Westminster.  John  Wrenche  and  Margaret  his  wife  security  for  payment  of  their 
relief  at  the  exchequer,  and  to  cause  them  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage 
and  two  carucates  of  land  in  Atteworth  ;  as  on  16  June  in  the  40th 
year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  letters  patent  committed  to  Thomas 
Spigurnell  his  esquire  to  hold  for  a  set  yearly  farm  during  pleasure 
the  keeping  of  the  manor  of  Atteworth,  which  was  of  George  Selman, 
was  held  by  knight  service  of  the  king  as  of  his  manor  of  Hampstede 
Marschall.  and  came  to  the  king's  hands  as  an  escheat  for  that  the 
said  George  committed  a  felony  for  which  he  was  outlawed,  as  was 
found  by  inquisition  taken  by  the  escheator  at  the  king's  command  ; 
and  after  on  the  finding  of  another  inquisition,  likewise  taken  by  the 
escheator  at  the  king's  command,  that  the  said  George  held  the  said 
manor  to  him  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  by  virtue  of  a  fine  thereof  levied 
in  the  court  of  King  Edward  I  under  the  name  of  a  messuage  and  two 
carucates  of  land  in  Atteworth  between  Richard  Cotel  and  Isabel 
his  wife  plaintiffs  and  William  Percy  deforciant,  whereby  the  said 
W^illiam  granted  that  messuage  and  land  to  the  said  Richard  and 
Isabel  for  life,  with  remainder  to  John  son  of  the  said  Richard  and 
the  heirs  of  his  body,  remainder  for  lack  of  such  issue  to  Thomas  his 
brother  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  remainder  for  lack  of  such  issue  to 
Isolda  sister  of  the  said  Thomas  and  to  the  heirs  of  her  body, 
that  the  said  Richard  and  Isabel  are  dead,  and  hkewise  the  said  John 
[son  of  Richard]  and  Thomas  his  brother,  both  without  issue,  that 
the  said  Isolda  (now  deceased)  had  issue  the  said  George  and  one 
Egidia,  and  the  said  Egidia  had  issue  the  said  Margaret  Anfe  of  John 
^^>enche,  and  that  the  said  George  died  without  issue,  wherefore  the 
premises  ought  by  the  form  of  the  fine  to  descend  to  the  said  Margaret, 
being  of  full  age,  as  daughter  of  Egidia  and  cousin  and  heir  of  the  said 
George,  at  the  suit  of  the  said  John  Wrenche  and  Margaret  praying 
livery  of  the  premises,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  under  the  name  of  the 
manor  of  Atteworth  by  forfeiture  of  the  said  George,  as  the  right  and 
heritage  of  the  said  Margaret  seeing  that  the  said  George  might  not  for- 

CR  2 


18 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


im\). 


April  24. 

Wostminstor, 


March  20. 

Windsor. 


Membrane  25 — cont. 
feit  tlie  samo  hut  for  l)is  lifi;  only  heinf^  by  the  said  fine  entailed,  and  that 
by  hi.s  deatli  they  pertain  to  her  as  his  cousin  and  heir,  the  king  ordered 
the  sheriff  of  Wilte-sir  to  give  notice  to  the  said  Thomas  [Spigurnell] 
to  be  before  liijn  in  chancery  in  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  last  to  shew 
cause  wherefore  livery  of  the  premises  ought  not  to  be  given  as  afore- 
said, and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court  should  determine  ; 
and  the  sheriff  returned  that  he  gave  notice  accordingly  by  Thomas 
Grenehull  and  Robert  Cood  ;  and  at  the  day  appeared  as  well  the 
.said  John  W'renche  and  ^Margaret  as  the  said  Thomas  Spigurnell  in 
person,  and  the  said  John  and  Margaret  craved  livery  of  the  premises 
as  the  heritage  of  the  said  Margaret  to  hold  according  to  the  said 
fine,  and  whereas  Thomas  Spigurnell  said  nought  in  effect  where- 
fore livery  thereof  ought  not  to  be  given  them,  the  king  took  the 
fealty  of  the  said  John  Wrenche  and  rendered  the  premises  to  him 
and  the  said  Margaret. 

To  Tliomas  de  Musgrave  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  not  to 
meddle  further  with  a  messuage  and  two  borates  of  land  in  Rillyngton 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Robert  de  Langthwayt  of 
Rillyngton  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  Margaret  his  daughter, 
saving  to  the  king  the  issues  thereof  taken,  and  the  marriage  of  the 
said  iMargaret  if  that  ought  to  pertain  to  the  king  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  William  de  Raygate  late  escheator, 
that  the  said  Robert,  who  died  in  the  plague  on  20  August  in  the  23rd 
year  of  the  reign,  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief, 
but  held  the  premises  by  homage  and  fealty  of  the  heirs  of  William 
de  Roos  of  Hamelak  tenant  in  chief  who  were  within  age  and  in  the 
king's  wardship,  that  the  said  Margaret  is  his  next  heir  and  now 
of  full  age,  and  that  the  escheators  for  the  time  being  have  by  reason 
of  her  nonage  taken  all  profit  of  the  premises  since  the  said  Robert's 
death,  charging  themselves  therewith  in  their  accounts  at  the 
exchequer  ;  and  on  21  June  in  the  32nd  year  of  the  reign  the  age 
of  Thomas  de  Roos  brother  and  heir  of  the  said  William  de  Roos 
was  proved,  and  the  king  took  his  homage  and  fealty,  and  commanded 
livery  to  be  given  him  of  his  said  brother's  lands. 

Membrane  24. 

To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  and  to  the  aldermen  of  London.  Order 
under  pain  of  forfeiture  to  cavise  all  the  fencible  men  between  the  ages 
of  16  and  60  years  in  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London  to  be  arrayed, 
furnished  with  arms  every  man  according  to  his  estate  and  means, 
put  in  thousands,  hundreds  and  twenties,  and  kept  in  such  array,  so 
as  to  be  ready  before  \Vhitsuntide  at  latest  to  march  for  defence  of 
the  realm  so  often  as  danger  shall  threaten  by  inroads  of  the  king's 
enemies  and  they  shall  thereof  be  warned,  also  to  cause  all  craftsmen, 
workmen  and  labourers  who  refuse  to  labour  and  serve  for  the  wages  in 
the  ordinance  contained  to  be  punished,  and  likewise  all  who  take  or  pay 
more  than  is  thereby  established  and  declared,  certifying  in  chancery  be- 
fore Trinity  next  the  number  of  men  at  arms,  armed  men,  hobblers  and 
archers  so  arrayed  ;  as  being  desirous  to  guard  against  the  hurt  and  peril 
that  is  feared  for  lack  of  furnishing  of  the  men  of  the  realm,  the  king  has 
appointed  guardians  of  the  peace  in  every  the  counties  thereof  by  them- 
selves and  their  deputies  to  array  all  the  fencible  men  between  the 
ages  mentioned,  to  furnish  all  men  at  arms,  armed  men,  hobblers 
and  archers  with  arms,  every  man  according  to  his  estate  and  means, 


43    EDWARD    III.  19 


1809.  Membrane  24 — cont. 

to  put  tlieni  in  thousands,  luinclicds  and  twenties,  and  wlien  so  armed, 
arrayed  and  tried  to  keep  them  in  array,  so  that  it  be  before  Whitsun- 
tide at  latest,  ready  to  march  as  aforesaid  ;  and  also  for  that  some 
craftsmen,  laboui'ei's  and  workmen  refuse  to  work  aecoiding  to  the 
ordinance  long  ago  made  by  the  king  and  council,  fearing  not  tlie  pain 
thereby  made  for  that  the  justices  assigned  for  the  purpose  hold  not 
sessions  at  the  times  a])pointed  noi-  give  due  punishment  to  those  who 
are  guilty  according  to  the  same,  the  king  has  by  divers  WTits  com- 
manded the  said  guardians  and  the  sheriffs  every  year  to  hold  such 
sessions  at  the  terms  therein'  limited  according  to  the  form  of  the 
ordinance,  punishing  all  who  refuse  to  labouf  and  serve  as  aforesaid 
and  all  those  who  take  more  and  pay  more  than  is  thereby  established 
and  declared.  By  K. 

[Foedera.l 

The  like  to  the  follo\ving  : — 

Th.  bishop  of  Durham,  upon  his  allegiance,  so  to  do  witliin  the 
liberty   of  Durham.  By  K. 

Ralph  Spigurnell  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of  the 
Cinque  Ports,  or  to  his  lieutenant,  so  to  do  within  the  liberty 
of  the  said  ports.  By  K. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Winchester. 
The  mayor  and  bailifl's  of  the  town  of  Suthampton. 
\Ibid.] 

May  12.  To  Richard  de  Wydeville  escheator  in  Norharaptonshire  and  Rote- 

Westminster,  land.  Order  to  cause  John  de  Wittelbury,  brother  and  heir  of  Thomas 
de  W^ittelbury,  to  have  seisin  of  a  third  part  of  two  thirds  of  the  manor 
of  Wyssendene  co.  Roteland,  held  in  dower  of  his  heritage  by  Joan 
who  was  wife  of  Aubrey  [Alhrcdi)  de  Witlebury  and  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  her  death,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken,  but 
not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Horton  co.  Norhampton  and 
other  lands  likewise  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  delivering  up  any 
issues  of  these  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  divers  inquisitions, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Joan  at  her  death  held  no  lands 
in  the  said  counties  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  as  jointly 
enfeoffed  with  her  said  husband  held  the  m.anor  of  Horton  with 
appurtenances  in  Horton  and  Pid\Tigton  of  the  gift  of  Robert  de 
Thorp  knight,  a  messuage  and  one  carucate  of  land  and  meadow  in 
Blaconesle  co.  Norhampton  containing  80  acres  of  land  of  the  gift  of 
John  de  Witlesbury  knight,  20  acres  of  land  in  the  town  of  Paston 
of  the  gift  of  William  de  Thorp,  five  messuages  and  ten  bovates 
of  land  in  Empyngham  co.  Roteland  of  the  gift  of  William  de  Thorp 
to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  the  said  third  part  in 
dower  of  tlie  heritage  of  John  son  and  heir  of  the  said  Aubrey, 
that  the  said  John  de  Wittelbury  brother  of  Thomas  is  son  and  next 
heir  of  the  said  Aubrey  and  Joan  and  of  full  age,  and  that  the  said 
third  part  is  held  by  knight  service  of  the  king  as  of  the  honour  of 
Huntyngdon,  the  said  manor  of  Horton  and  other  the  premises  of 
others  than  the  king ;  and  on  26  September  in  the  28th  year  of  the 
reign  the  age  of  the  said  John  son  of  Aubrey  was  proved,  and  the  king 
took  his  homage  and  commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  the  lands 
of  Thomas  his  brother. 

To  John  de  Bisshopeston  escheator  in  Kent.     Order  not  to  meddle 
further  with  200  acres  of  land,  7  acres  of  meadow,  16  acres  of  wood 


20 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1369. 


Membrane  24 — cont. 


and  11.  5s.  of  rent  in  I*re8ton,  Slieldwych,  Faveresham  and  Herthey, 
and  with  52  acres  of  land  and  1 1  acres  of  ineatlow  in  Estwell,  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Michael  de  Ponynges  knight, 
delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  iVIichael  held  the 
premises  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  in  '  gavelkynde  '  of  others  than  the 
king,  and  that  Thomas  and  Richard  his  sons  are  his  heirs  of  all 
lands  so  held  at  his  death,  Thomas  being  aged  20  and  Richard 
12  years  and  upwards. 

Membrane  23, 

May  6.  To  the  king's  searclier  in  the  port  of  London  and  of  Cravesende. 

Westminster.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Peter  GyselvTi  master  of  a  ship  called 
'  la  Hogbote '  of  Flanders,  to  cause  the  said  ship  and  all  things  therein 
to  be  dearrcsted  and  delivered  to  the  said  master  to  make  his 
advantage  thereof  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  upon  a  search  made 
bj'  tlie  said  searcher  in  the  river  Thames  at  Oravesende  there  was 
foimd  upon  a  woman  in  the  said  sliip  about  to  pass  to  foreign  parts 
43/.  10s.  to  be  by  her  taken  thither  contrary  to  the  ordinance  and 
proclamation  made  by  the  king  and  council,  and  that  he  arrested 
the  ship  and  is  detaining  it  together  with  the  said  money,  though  the 
said  master  knew  nought  of  the  money  before  the  said  woman's  entry 
into  the  ship  nor  after  before  the  search,  wherefore  he  has  prayed  for 
remedy  ;  and  as  well  the  said  master  as  Doncardus  Enson,  William 
Muse,  John  Souter  and  Lawrence  Sherman  seamen  appearing  in 
chancery  have  made  oath  that  the  said  master  knew  nought  thereof 
before  the  search,  nor  was  the  money  brouglit  thither  by  him  by 
covin  or  other  subtlety. 

May  9.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Suthampton.     Order  to  cause  pro- 

Westminster,  clamation  to  be  made  on  the  king's  behalf  forbidding  any  man  who 
has  lands,  goods  and  cliattels  in  the  said  town  and  dwelt  therein 
heretofore  to  eloign  himself  therefrom  or  draw  away  or  asunder  his 
goods  or  chattels,  and  if  any  has  so  done  because  of  the  danger  now 
impending,  ordering  him  to  return  thither  within  eight  days  after 
the  proclamation  and  bring  again  such  chattels,  and  if  he  shall  not 
to  take  and  keep  his  body  if  found  within  the  town  in  safe  custody 
in  the  king's  prison  until  further  order  ;  and  by  true  men  of  the  town 
to  make  inquisition  what  men  have  so  eloigned  themselves  withdraw- 
ing their  goods  and  chattels.  Avhen  and  in  what  manner,  to  take  and 
keep  as  aforesaid  the  bodies  of  all  found  to  have  so  done  when  they 
shall  come  to  the  toAMi,  if  within  eight  days  they  shall  not  return 
thither  and  bring  again  the  goods  and  chattels  so  flithdra\ATi,  and 
to  seize  into  the  king's  hand  their  lands,  goods  and  chattels  found  in 
the  said  town,  answering  to  the  king  for  the  issues  of  such  lands  and 
for  the  goods  and  chattels  so  seized,  and  certifying  in  chancery  from 
time  to  time  all  their  action  in  the  matter. 
{Foedera.'] 

May  14.  To  Alan  de  Toucestre  of  Merkyate.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of 

Westminster.  John  de  Cobildyk  knight,  to  cause  John  son  of  the  said  John,  if  he 
be  in  the  said  Alan's  wardship,  to  be  delivered  without  delay  to  his 
father  ;  as  his  said  petition  shews  that,  upon  an  allegation  that  John 
the  father  was  dead  and  that  the  wardship  of  Jolin  the  son  who  was 
within  age  pertained  to  her,  whereas  John  the  father  was  yet  alive 


43    EDWARD    III. 


21 


1309.  Membrane  23— con<. 

and  held  no  lands  of  her,  Mary  late  countess  of  Norffolk  caused  John 
the  son  to  be  seized  to  her  use  and  kept  him  with  her  during  her  life 
time,  and  that  her  executors,  with  whom  he  remained  as  a  chattel 
of  the  said  countess,  by  command  of  the  then  chancellor  as  disposer 
of  the  goods  and  chattels  of  the  countess  deputed  by  the  king  as  chief 
overseer  of  her  will,  delivered  John  the  son  to  the  said  Alan  for  a  debt 
wherein  the  said  countess  was  bound  to  him,  and  so  jJolm  the  son  is 
yet  in  the  wardship  of  the  said  Alan  ;  and  his  wardship  may  not  nor 
ought  in  the  life  time  of  his  said  father  to  pertain  to  the  countess  or 
to  any  other,  and  it  is  witnessed  before  the  king  by  credible  persons 
that  John  the  father  is  yet  alive  and  well.  The  king's  will  is  that,  if 
the  said  countess  was  at  her  death  bound  to  the  said  Alan  in  any  debt, 
her  executors  shall  content  him  of  her  goods  and  chattels  in  their 
keeping.  By  K.  and  C. 

Membrane  22. 

May  12.  To  John  de  Bissliopeston  escheator  in  Kent  and  Sussex.     Order  to 

Westminster,  take  of  Joan  who  was  the  wife  of  Michael  de  Ponynges  knight  tenant 
in  chief  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  tiie  king's  licence, 
and  to  deliver  to  her  in  dower  the  manors  of  Nowynton  Bertram 
CO.  Kent  extended  at  16^  4.9.  O^d.  a  year,  Estwell  co.  Kent  (the  lands 
therein  held  in  'gavylkynde'  excepted'*  at  11.  ISs.  2d.,  and  Ponynges 
CO.  Sussex  at  12/.  2s.  2id.,  which  manors  and  the  manor  of  Wilton 
CO.  Norffolk,  extended  at  Ills.  2d.  a  year,  the  king  has  assigned  to 
her  of  her  said  husband's  lands  which  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  his 
death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir. 

To  John  de  Cressyngham  escheator  in  Norffolk.  Order  to  deliver 
in  dower  to  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Michael  de  Ponynges  knight  tenant 
in  chief  the  manor  of  Wylton  which  the  king  has  assigned  to  her. 

April  16.  To  John  de  Bissliopeston  escheator  in  Sussex.  Order  not  to  meddle 
Westminster,  further  with  the  manors  of  Penggeden,  Perchyng,  Hangelton  and 
Preston  by  Glynde  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Michael 
de  Ponynges  knight,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  long 
before  his  death  the  said  Michael  by  divers  charters  demised  the 
same  to  Robert  Boteler,  John  Borle  parson  of  Terryng,  Robert  Queche 
and  John  atte  Hide  (all  yet  living)  for  their  lives,  and  that  the  same 
are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

To  John  de  Bisshopeston  escheator  in  Sussex.  Order  not  to  meddle 
further  ^^ith  the  manor  of  Westdene  by  Sefforde  and  a  messuage  and 
100  acres  of  land  in  \\'alderne  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  Michael  Ponynges  knight,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  the  said  Michael  at  his  death  held 
the  said  manor  jointly  \\ith  Joan  late  his  wife  (yet  living),  and  also  the 
premises  in  Walderne  under  the  name  of  the  manor  of  ^^'^alderne,  to 
them  and  the  heiis  of  the  said  Michael,  and  that  the  same  are  held 
of  others  than  the  king. 

May  3.  To  the  official  of  the  court  of  Canterbury  and  to  his  commissary. 

Westminster.  Notice  to  proceed  in  the   court    christian   in    a  cause  before   them 

prosecuted  by  Master  William  de  Melborne,  in  case  Robert  de  Derby 


22  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


ISCA).  Membrane  22 — cont. 

clerk  was  presentfd  by  the  kint^  to  the  prebend  of  Netherhaven  in  the 
church  of  St.  Mary  Sahsbuiy  by  virtue  of  the  king's  recovery  of  that 
presentation  and  kept  possession  of  the  said  prebend  until  his  death, 
and  in  case  William  de  Feriby  was  after  the  death  of  the  said  Robert 
collated  thereto  by  authority  of  the  ordinary  and  so  occupies  the  same, 
v\ith  licence  to  do  what  they  .shall  lind  to  pertain  to  the  ecclesiastical 
court  the  king's  proliibition  notwithstanding,  provided  that  no 
attempt  be  made  tending  to  prejudice  the  king  or  his  right,  or  judg- 
ments rendered  in  his  courts  ;  as  Master  William  de  Mulborne  has 
shewn  the  king  that  by  virtue  of  a  late  papal  provision  to  him  of  a 
canomy  and  prebend  in  the  said  church  he  canonically  obtained 
possession  of  the  said  prebend,  that  he  after  was  ousted  therefrom 
by  the  said  Robert,  who  Avas  thereto  admitted  at  the  king's  presenta- 
tion by  colour  of  his  alleged  right  of  collating  thereto  at  that  time,  and 
held  the  said  prebend  all  his  life,  that  after  the  said  Robert's  death  the 
said  A\'illiam  de  Feryby  obtained  the  said  prebend  by  collation  of 
Robert  now  bishop  of  Salisbury  to  the  prejudice  of  the  said  W^illiam 
de  Mulborne,  and  now  unlawfully  holds  and  occupies  the  same,  that 
he  the  said  William  de  Mulborne  is  suing  in  the  court  christian 
to  recover  possession  thereof  according  to  the  said  provision  against 
William  de  Feryby,  that  William  de  Feryby  scheming  to  impede  the 
jurisdiction  pertaining  to  the  ecclesiastical  court  in  that  behalf,  has 
procured  a  prohibition  to  the  said  ofl&cial  and  commissary  addressed 
against  any  attempt  in  contempt  of  the  king  tending  to  prejudice  his  right 
or  impair  a  certain  judgment  in  his  court  before  the  justices  of  the 
Bench,  alleging  in  chancery  that  the  king  lately  before  the  said  justices 
recovered  against  the  said  bishop  and  William  de  Mulborne  his 
presentation  to  the  said  prebend  lately  void  and  in  his  gift,  and  that 
certain  persons  were  suing  in  the  court  christian  striving  to  annul  the 
king's  right  and  the  judgment  so  rendered,  made  provocations,  appeals 
etc.  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  and  crown,  and  Avere  thereby 
endeavouring  to  submit  the  king's  right  and  the  said  judgment  to 
the  judgment  of  another  and  so  to  subvert  and  annul  the  same,  and 
shewing  that  by  colour  of  the  said  prohibition  the  said  official  and 
commissary  have  deferred  to  proceed  further  in  the  cause  pending 
before  them  between  ^^'illiam  de  Mulborne  and  William  de  Feryby 
touching  the  recovery  of  the  said  prebend,  Avherefore  he  has  prayed 
for  remedy  ;  and  the  king  Avould  not  that  the  ecclesiastical  jurisdiction 
be  unduly  impeded. 

April  30.  To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Oxfordshire.  Order  to  deliver 
Westminster,  to  Thomas  son  of  John  Giffard  of  Twyford  the  manor  and  advowson 
of  Somerton  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  said  father's  death, 
together  AA'ith  the  issues  thereof  taken,  but  not  to  meddle  further  AA'ith 
other  lands  likcAvise  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  delivering  up  the 
issues  thereof  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  the  said  John  Giffard  at  Ms  death  held  no  lands  in  that 
county  in  chief  nor  of  any  other  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the 
said  manor  and  advowson  for  term  of  his  life  in  chief  by  knight  service 
of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Robert  de  Tibetot  parson  of  Somerton  and 
Richard  Malet  chaplain  made  Avith  the  king's  licence,  AA'ith  remainder 
to  the  said  Thomas  and  to  the  heii's  of  his  body,  and  held  divers  other 
.  lands  of  others  than  the  king  likcAAise  for  life  AAith  reversion  to  the 
said  Thomas  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the 
said  Thomas.  By  p.s.  [27832.] 


43    EDWARD    III. 


23 


1359  Membrane  21. 

June  1.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Essex  to  cause  a  verderer  in  tliat  county 

Weatminster.  to  be  elected  instead  of  Thomas  de  ^^Mlelpe8ton,  who  is  sick  and  aged. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Essex  to  cause  a  verderer  in  the  said  forest 
{sic)  to  be  elected  instead  of  John  Rokell,  who  is  dead. 

Order  to  the  same  sheriff  to  cause  two  verderers-of  the  said  forest 
(sic)  to  be  elected  instead  of  Alexander  de  Goldyngham  and  Jolm 
Mounteney,  who  have  sailed  to  parts  over  sea  on  the  king's  service. 

June  5.  To  the  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Shrew  sbury.     Order  to  cause  pro- 

Westminster,  clamation  to  be  made  on  the  king's  behalf  forbidding  am'  burge.ss  or 
other  inhabitant  to  pass  out  of  the  said  town  or  absent  himself 
therefrom  by  reason  of  any  the  king's  war,  by  colour  of  a  retainer  of 
any  lord,  or  for  other  like  cause,  but  ordering  them  at  tlieir  peril  to 
be  intendent  to  the  furnishing  and  defence  of  the  town  when  need  be, 
and  if  the  bailiff's  shall  find  any  rebellious  herein,  to  cause  them  to 
be  straightway  arrested  and  kept  in  safe  custody  until  they  shall  find 
security  not  to  leave  the  to\na  for  such  causes  ;  as  the  kmg  is  informed 
that  under  colour  of  such  retainers  some  of  the  burgesses  and  in- 
habitants are  purposing  to  pass  over  seas  and  leave  the  town  without 
sufficient  furnishing  in  case  evil  should  happen. 
[Foedera.^ 

May  21,  To  William  de  Catesby  escheator  in  Warwickshire.     Order,  upon  the 

Westminster,  petition  of  the  prior  of  Kenilleworth,  if  the  messuages,  mills,  lands, 
rents  etc.  hereinafter  mentioned  are  the  same  that  are  specified  in  a 
licence  in  mortmain  of  6  February  18  Edward  II,  and  in  the  king's 
letters  of  exemphfication  of  the  record  and  process  of  a  cause  in  mort- 
main hereinafter  rehearsed,  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and  not  to 
meddle  further  therewith,  delivering  to  the  said  prior  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  upon  the  finding  of  an  inquisition,  taken 
of  his  office  by  John  Bernard  then  escheator,  that  without  the  king's 
licence  the  prior  and  convent  of  Kelyngworth  after  the  publication 
of  the  statute  of  mortmain  appropriated  to  them  and  their  house  a 
manor  and  four  carucates  of  land  and  rent  in  Radford,  30  acres  of 
land  called  Berehull  and  "  Graungedore  '  w  ith  parcels  of  meadow  called 
'  Odammesmedewe  '  and  '  Horspol '  in  Whittenassh  Mith  three  selions 
of  land  at  the  '  Milledore  '  and  a  croft  called  the  '  Aumnersclos,'  taking 
the  issues  and  profits  thereof  24  years  and  more  contrary  to  the  said 
statute,  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  give  notice  to  the  prior  to  be 
before  the  king  in  chancery  at  a  set  day  now  past  to  shew  cause  where- 
fore the  premises  ought  not  to  be  seized  .as  forfeit  into  the  king's 
hand  and  remain  with  the  king  and  his  heirs  according  to  the  said 
statute,  and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court  should  deter- 
mine ;  at  which  day  the  said  prior  appeared  by  Richard  de  Braunston 
his  attorney  and  said  in  regard  to  a  messuage,  a  mill.  10' acres  of  land, 
2  acres  of  meadow,  3  acres  of  pasture  and  166\  \d.  of  rent  in  Radford 
that  on  the  date  above  mentioned  the  late  king  by  letters  patent 
granted  to  his  predecessor  then  jjrior  of  Kenilleworth  Ucence  in  mort- 
main to  acquire  and  hold  the  same  to  him  and  his  successors,  and  in 
regard  to  other  six  messuages,  four  virgates  of  land,  6  acres  of  meadow 
and  105.  of  rent  in  Radford  and  the  said  tenements  in  Wittenassh  he 
said  that  in  the  26th  year  of  the  reign  at  \\'arrewyk  there  a\  as  a  cause 
in   the   king's  court  against    a  prior  of  Kenilleworth  his  predecessor 


24  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


IStJU.  Membrane  21 — cont. 

touchmg  tiie  purchase  of  lands  tlieie  to  the  value  of  lOL,  and  it 
was  found  by  inquisition  whereupon  the  said  prior  then  put  liimself 
that  by  the  king's  licence  he  acquired  as  well  the  said  six  messuages, 
four  virgates  of  land,  6  acres  of  meadow  and  10.s.  of  rent  in  Radford 
as  a  mill,  one  virgate  of  land  and  8  acres  of  meadow  in  Wyttenassh, 
w  hereforc  it  was  determined  that  he  should  go  without  a  day,  as  may 
appear  by  the  said  exemplification,  and  so  the  said  now  prior  says 
that  as  well  the  premises  in  Radford  as  those  in  Wyttenassh  were 
w  ith  the  king's  licence  and  by  due  process  acquired  by  his  predecessors, 
without  that  that  he  or  his  predecessors  acquired  any  other  lands  in 
those  towns,  or  that  he  has  or  claims  any  other,  praying  the  removal 
of  the  king's  hand. 

Membrane  20. 

April  16.  To  Ricliard  de  Wydeville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.  Order 
Westminster,  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Kilthorp,  Keten  and  Weston 
in  the  said  county,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Thomas 
Deyncourt,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Thomas  at 
his  deatli  held  no  lands  in  that  coimty  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of 
fee  nor  in  reversion,  but  held  the  said  manor  of  the  gift  of  Robert 
Deyncourt  his  brother,  confirmed  by  W'illiam  Deyncourt  their  father, 
to  him  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  during  the  said  Robert's  life, 
with  reversion  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  said  Robert  (yet  living) 
and  to  his  heirs,  and  that  the  same  is  not  held  of  the  king. 

May  12.  To  ^^'illiam  de  Wyndesore  the  king's  lieutenant  in  Ireland.     Order, 

Westminster,  upon  the  petition  of  the  prior  of  Lanthony  by  Gloucestre,  to  have 
regard  to  the  estate  of  the  said  prior  and  the  convent,  delivering  to 
them  a  part  of  the  profits  of  the  spiritual  benefices  and  small 
temporalities  which  they  have  in  Ireland  to  bring  to  the  said  priory 
for  their  maintenance,  and  reserving  some  part  thereof  for  the  expenses 
of  the  wars  in  Ireland  ;  as  the  said  petition  shews  that  great  part 
of  their  livelihood  consists  in  the  said  benefices  and  temporalities, 
and  that  by  colour  of  the  said  wars  they  are  now  newly  hindered  from 
taking  any  money  arising  therefrom  to  bring  out  of  Ireland,  praying 
for  remedy  ;  and  the  king  would  not  that  they  be  altogether  deprived 
of  their  said  profit. 

May  10.  To  the  arrayers  and  triers  of  men  at  arms,  armed  men  and  archers 
Westminster,  in  Kent.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  de  Cobham  and  Walter 
Doget  tenants  of  the  manor  of  Bekesbourne  co.  Kent,  not  to  compel 
or  distrain  them  by  virtue  of  the  king's  commission  to  find  any  men 
at  arms,  armed  men  or  archers,  or  to  contribute  with  men  of  the 
commons  of  that  county  towards  the  expenses  of  such  men  by  reason 
of  the  said  manor  whicli  is  one  of  the  members  of  the  port  of  Hastynges 
being  of  the  Cinque  Ports,  but  to  suffer  them  to  be  thereof  quit  accord- 
ing to  the  charter  of  King  Edward  I  and  the  king's  confirmation  thereof, 
whereby  in  consideration  that  the  shipping  of  the  said  ports  might  not 
without  great  expense  be  maintained,  in  order  that  the  same  should 
not  fail  nor  perish,  the  said  king  by  his  letters  patent,  confirmed  by  the 
king,  granted  that  all  they  of  the  said  ports  and  others  whatsoever 
avowing  themselves  of  the  liberty  thereof  and  willing  to  enjoy  the 
same  should  contribute  with  their  ships,  every  man  according  to  his 


43    EDWARD    III.  26 


13()0.  Membrane  20— ccmt. 

means,  to  perform  the  king's  service  when  commanded  so  to  do  ; 
and  after  in  order  tliat  the  barons  of  tl)o  said  ports  may  the  more 
conveniently  perform  that  service  in  time  of  need,  tlie  king  by  counsel 
of  the  prelates,  earls,  barons  and  commons  of  the  realm  in  a  parliament 
holden  at  York  in  tlie  2nd  year  of  his  reign  granted  the  said  barons 
that  all  they  of  the  said  ports  and  others  whatsoever  avowing  themselves 
of  the  said  liberty  and  willing  to  enjoy  the  same  should  contribute  to 
maintain  the  said  shipping  and  perform  the  said  service  of  all  their 
goods  and  chattels  as  well  without  as  within  the  said  liberty,  and 
if  need  be  should  by  the  mayors  and  jurats  of  the  said  ports  and  by  the 
constable  of  Dovorre  castle  be  compelled  so  to  do,  and  that  the  goods 
and  chattels  of  the  said  barons  and  others  without  or  within  the  said 
liberty  taxed  for  that  purpose  should  not  be  taxed  with  the  goods  and 
chattels  of  foreigners  towards  tallages  or  other  charges  whatsoever  ; 
and  the  king  by  charter  has  confirmed  the  aforesaid  charter,  granting 
further  that  the  said  barons,  their  heirs  and  successors,  shall  fully 
enjoy  and  use  those  liberties  and  every  one  of  them  without  trouble 
of  the  king,  his  justices,  escheators,  sheriffs,  bailiffs  or  ministers 
wliatsoever,  though  heretofore  they  used  not  any  of  them  ;  and  now 
on  behalf  of  the  said  John  and  Walter  the  king  has  learned  that  the 
said  arrayers  and  triers  have  by  colour  of  the  present  array  assessed 
them  by  reason  of  their  said  manor,  being  a  member  of  the  said  ports, 
to  find  a  contribution  towards  certain  men  at  arms,  armed  men  and 
archers,  and  towards  finding  and  maintaining  the  shipping  and  services 
aforesaid,  and  arc  unla\\fully  distraining  and  troubling  them  otherwise 
than  was  heretofore  used,  although  all  the  said  barons  and  others  of 
the  said  liberty  contributing  as  aforesaid  by  reason  of  lands,  goods 
and  chattels  within  or  without  the  same  since  the  date  of  the  said 
charter  and  confirmation  have  not  found  nor  been  compelled  to  find 
any  men  at  arms,  armed  men  or  archers,  any  contribution  or  other 
charge  save  the  shipping  and  services  aforesaid,  but  have  been  thereof 
quit  in  all  past  times,  praying  for  remedy  ;  and  it  is  found  by  certificate 
of  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer,  sent  into  chancery 
at  the  king's  command  and  exemplified  by  his  letters  patent,  that  the 
said  manor  is  one  of  the  members  of  the  port  of  Hastynges,  being 
the  chief  of  the  Cinque  Ports,  which  with  its  members  ought  at  the 
king's  summons  to  fiiid  21  sliips,  and  in  every  ship  21  men  strong, 
able,  well  armed  and  furnished  towards  the  service  of  the  realm. 

April  30.  To  John  de  Ipre.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Alice  wife  of  Richard 
Westminster.  Engleys  now  deceased,  henceforth  not  to  meddle  with  the  office  of 
gauger  of  wines  in  the  town  of  Bristol  and  the  serjeanty  of  the  tidal 
river  [aque  maritime)  within  the  liberty  of  the  said  town  by  colour  of 
a  grant  thereof  to  him  made,  restoring  to  the  said  Alice  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  on  24  February  in  tiie  27th  year  of  the  reign  the 
king  by  letters  patent  gave  the  said  office  to  the  said  Richard  and 
Alice  for  their  lives  with  all  profits  and  emoluments  thereto  pertaining  ; 
and  on  6  March  in  the  28th  year  by  other  letters  patent  he  confirmed 
the  grant  of  the  said  serjeanty  within  the  liberty  of  her  said  town 
made  to  the  said  Richard  and  AUce  for  their  lives  by  letters  patent  of 
Queen  Philippa,  granting  further  that  even  if  one  should  overUve  the 
other  they  should  have  and  hold  that  serjeanty  during  the  life  of  the 
longest  Uver  ;  and  now  the  said  Alice  has  prayed  restitution  of  the 
said  office  and  serjeanty  according  to  the  form  of  the  grant,  as  she 
has  been  therefrom  ousted  by  the  said  John  by  colour  of  a  grant  of 


26 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


13()<)  Membrane  20 — cont. 

the  king  to  him  made  of  the  office  of  gauger  and  the  office  of  '  water- 
baillif,'  and  at  the  time  of  inakinrf  that  grant  the  king  remembered  not 
the  urant  made  to  the  said  Richard  and  Alice  for  their  Uves. 

June  I.  To  Richard  de  Pembrugge  keeper  of  the  New  Forest  or  to  his 

Westminster,  repressentative.     Order   to   dehver   by   indenture   to   the   mayor   and 

bailiffs  of  Suthampton,  by  the  view  and  testimony  of  the  verderers  of 

the  said  forest,  100  oaks  for  certain  works  which  the  king  has  ordered 

in   Suthampton   castle.  By   K. 

May  28.  To  the  sheriff  of  Warrewyk  for  the  time  being.     Order  to  suffer 

Westminster,  the  prior  and  convent  of  Coventre  \\ithout  let  to  enclose  246  acres 
of  waste  and  w  ood  by  them  held  in  severalty  within  their  manor  of 
Newelond  it  is  said,  and  436  acres  of  waste  and  wood  \s  ithin  their  manor 
of  \Mutcmore,  if  not  within  the  bounds  of  the  king's  forest,  on  the  king's 
behalf  forbidding  all  and  singular  within  his  bailiwick  as  well  of  the 
town  of  Coventre  as  elsewhere  to  hinder  or  disturb  such  enclosure, 
and  if  he  shall  find  any  so  doing  to  aid  the  said  prior  and  convent  with 
all  his  posse  in  removing  such  hindrance,  certifying  in  chancery  the 
names  of  those  who  cause  the  same,  if  any  there  be  ;  as  lately  of  his 
favour  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  licence  to  the  said  prior  and 
convent  to  make  the  said  enclosures,  to  make  parks  thereof,  and  to 
hold  the  said  enclosures  and  parks  so  made  to  them  and  their  successors 
for  ever  without  trouble  or  let  of  the  king,  his  justices,  escheators, 
sheriffs,  bailiffs  or  ministers  whatsoever,  provided  the  same  be  not 
within  the  bounds  of  the  forest. 
Et  erat  patens. 


Membrane  19. 

May  12.  To  the  arrayers  of  men  at  arms,  armed  men  and  archers  in  the  county 

Westminster,  of  Suthampton.  Order  to  stay  altogether  their  demand  made  upon 
John  de  Shupton,  provost  of  the  chapel  of  St.  EUzabeth  by  Winchester, 
among  the  laymen  of  the  county,  to  find  any  men  at  arms,  armed 
men  and  archers,  releasing  any  distress  made  for  that  cause  ;  as  the 
said  provost  is  among  other  ecclesiastical  persons  of  the  county 
arrayed  by  William  bishop  of  Winchester  for  all  the  lands  belonging 
to  his  provostship  to  find  such  men  for  defence  of  those  parts  according 
to  the  ordinance. 

May  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.     Order,  upon  sight  of  these  presents,  of  the 

Westminster,  issues  of  his  baili\A"ick  to  cause  the  bridge  of  York  castle  towards  the 
city  to  be  repaired  by  view  and  testimony  of  John  de  Stoke  one  of 
the  barons  of  the  exchequer  ;  as  the  said  bridge  is  on  every  side  so 
broken  and  ruinous  that  a  man  may  not  without  great  peril  enter 
or  leave  the  said  castle,  and  the  king  would  make  provision  to  save 
his  people  harmless.  By  K. 

April  28.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  cause  an  inquisition  which 
Westminster,  remains  to  be  taken  in  a  plea  of  trespass  pending  before  them  between 
John  Foxton  a  native  and  Lewis  Paul  merchant  of  Provence  an  alien 
to  be  taken  as  well  by  aliens  as  by  natives,  so  that  one  half  the  in- 
quisition be  of  aliens  the  other  of  natives  if  one  of  the  party  is  an 
alien  the  other  a  native,  according  to  the  charter  and  the  king's  con- 
firmation thereof,  not  troubling  the  said  Lewis  contrary  to  the  same ; 


43    EDWARD    III.  27 


1360.  Membrane  19 — cont. 

as  among  other  liberties  granted  to  alien  merchants  by  charters  of  the 
king's  forefatheis  and  confirnicd  by  the  kintr,  it  is  granted  that  in 
such  a  case  in  any  court  in  the  realm  one  moiety  of  the  inquisition  shall 
be  of  alien  merchants  and  the  other  half  of  natives. 

May  16.  To  the  bailiffs  of  Scardeburgli.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  envoys 

Westminster,  sent  from  Scotland  to  the  king,  to  summon  before  them  Robert  de 
Acclom  and,  if  they  shall  find  the  facts  to  be  as  by  the  said  envoys 
stated,  to  dearrest  and  give  up  to  John  Ciille  merchant  of  Scotland 
or  to  his  attorney  a  sum  of  'Ml.  by  the  said  Robejt  arrested  and  de- 
tained ;  as  the  said  envoys  have  shewn  the  king  that  the  said  John 
lately  in  Normandy  laded  a  ship  of  Normandy  witli  barley  to  take 
thence  to  Scotland,  that  the  said  ship  w  hile  at  sea  on  its  voyage  was 
by  a  storm  driven  to  the  port  of  Scardeburgli,  that  by  reason  of  the 
weakness  of  the  ship  the  said  John's  servant  sold  the  barley  for  34^., 
and  would  have  taken  the  money  \\ith  him  to  Scotland,  but  the  said 
Robert  unla\\  fully  arrested  the  same  and  is  detaining  it  under  arrest 
contrary  to  the  truce  between  the  king  and  the  Scots,  praying  for 
livery  thereof.  By  C, 

May  15.  To  Robert  de  Aston  the  king's  admiral,  or  to  his  lieutenant  in  the 

Westminster,  port  of  Great  Jernemuth  and  the  neighbouring  parts.  Order  to  take 
information  by  inquisition  of  true  men  of  those  parts  and,  if  they 
shall  find  the  facts  to  be  as  hereinafter  rehearsed,  to  cause  all  those 
to  whose  hands  the  goods  of  Wilham  de  Lyth,  John  Wode,  John 
Foldmouth  and  certain  other  burgesses  of  Aberdene  in  Scotland 
came  to  make  full  restitution  to  them,  or  to  their  proctors  or  attorneys 
suing  in  that  behalf,  first  having  duly  contented  those  by  whom  the 
goods  were  salved  according  to  the  maritime  law  and  the  ordinance 
made  by  the  king  and  council,  compelling  those  withholding  them 
so  to  do  as  law  and  reason  require  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  the 
grievous  complaint  of  the  said  burgesses  that  at  Lescluse  in  Flanders 
they  laded  a  ship  called  the  Seint  Marie  of  \^'estcapel  in  Seland, 
William  Mone  master,  with  100  tuns  of  wheat  flour,  10  lasts  of  herring 
and  divers  other  goods  and  chattels  to  the  value  of  1,000  marks, 
and  with  gold  and  silver  in  money  and  pieces  of  silver  of  the  price  of 
500  marks,  to  be  taken  to  Aberdene,  that  the  said  ship  on  its  voyage 
to  Scotland  was  by  a  storm  wrecked  ofl^  the  coasts  of  Kyrkeleyerode, 
the  said  master  escaping  aUve  so  that  the  ship  and  goods  aforesaid 
may  not  be  called  wreck,  and  that  certain  men  of  Kyrkeleye,  Corston 
and  Lystoft  and  of  the  parts  adjacent  took  and  carried  away  the  said 
goods  being  cast  up  on  the  sands  by  the  said  ship\\Teck,  and  did  their 
will  with  the  same,  praying  the  king  to  make  provision  touclung  the 
recovery  thereof.  By  K.  and  C. 

May  10.  To  John  Page  searcher  of  the  king's  forfeitures  in  the  river  Thames. 
Westminster.  Order  to  deliver  to  Joan  wife  of  Thomas  de  Burton  of  London,  by 
the  mainprise  of  the  said  Joan,  Thomas  Frere  and  Wilham  de  Burton  of 
London,  John  V'autort  and  John  Hautrj've  of  Derbyshire,  a  sum  of 
43Z.  105.  by  liim  arrested  in  the  said  river  at  Graveshende  ;  as  on 
behalf  of  the  said  Joan  humble  petition  is  made  to  the  king  for  dearrest 
and  delivery  of  the  said  money  and  of  herself,  together  with  a  ship 
of  Flanders  wherein  it  was  found  and  the  master  thereof,  shewing 
that  to  fulfil  his  vows  her  said  husband  departed  from  the  city  of 
London  on  a  pilgrimage  towards  the  Holy  Land  and  other  the  thres- 


28  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  KOLLS. 


1369.  Membrane  19 — cont. 

holds  of  the  saints,  that  on  his  Journey  he  was  in  the  parts  over  sea 
taken  and  imprisoned  and  put  to  ransom,  and  is  yet  there  detained, 
tliat  the  said  Joan  desiriny  to  deliver  him  sold  all  her  lands,  tenements 
and  rents  and  her  goods  and  chattels  as  well  in  the  said  city  as  else- 
where, receiving  of  the  buyers  the  sum  above  mentioned,  and  knowing 
nought  of  the  ordinance  against  taking  money  out  of  the  realm  without 
licence,  put  herself  with  the  money  on  board  the  said  ship  in  the 
said  river  to  sail  to  foreign  parts  for  delivery  of  her  husband,  and 
that  the  searcher  entered  the  said  ship  and  making  search  found  the 
said  Joan  with  tlie  said  sum  upon  her,  arrested  as  well  the  sliip  as 
the  said  Joan  having  upon  her  money  to  be  taken  out  of  the  realm 
contrary  to  the  ordinance,  and  the  master  and  seamen  of  the  ship, 
and  is  yet  detaining  them  under  arrest  ;  and  as  well  the  said  Joan 
as  the  said  Thomas  Frere,  William,  John  Vautort  and  John  Hautryve, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  to  answer  to  the  king 
for  the  said  money,  if  it  shall  be  determined  that  the  same  ought  to 
pertain  to  the  king.  By  C. 

May  22.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  chamberlains.     Order  to  deliver  to  Joan 

Westminster,  who  was  {sic)  wife  of  Tliomas  de  Burton,  by  the  mainprise  above 
mentioned,  43Z.  105.  upon  her  found  and  arrested  in  a  ship  at  Graves- 
hende  ;  as  upon  humble  petition  made  upon  her  behalf  (as  above, 
mutatis  mvtandis),  the  king  ordered  John  Page  searcher  etc.  (as  above) 
to  deliver  the  said  sum  to  her  ;  and  he  has  certified  in  chancery  that 
by  the  hands  of  John  Bray  he  delivered  to  the  treasury  at  Westminster 
the  said  sum  in  the  writ  contained,  namely  on  Wednesday  after 
St.  PhiUp  and  St.  James  last,  and  so  may  not  execute  the  king's 
command.  By  C. 

June  20.  To  William  Latymer  keeper  of  the  king's  forest  beyond  Trent, 
Westminster,  or  to  his  representative  in  Ingelwode  forest.  Order,  if  Richard 
Beaulieu  of  Kirkth^ayt  co.  Cumberland  shall  find  security  to  answer 
to  the  king  for  the  ciop  of  corn  of  liis  close  within  the  bounds  of  the 
said  forest,  and  if  the  same  be  replevisable  according  to  the  assize 
of  the  forest,  to  replevy  to  the  said  Richard  liis  said  close  until  the 
coming  of  the  justices  for  pleas  of  the  forest  in  that  county, 
certifying  the  security  in  chancery  under  seal ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
that  the  said  close  is  taken  into  his  hand  for  that  it  is  not  enclosed 
according  to  the  assize  of  the  forest. 

Membrane  18. 
June  11.*  To  the  bailiffs  and  constables  of  the  city  of  Hereford.  Order  to 
Westminster,  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  on  the  king's  behalf  forbidding  any 
citizen  or  other  inhabitant  of  the  said  city  to  pass  out  of  the  same 
by  reason  of  any  the  king's  war,  by  colour  of  the  retainer  of  any  lord, 
or  for  other  Uke  cause,  or  to  absent  himself  therefrom,  but  at  his 
peril  to  be  intendant  upon  the  furnishing  and  defence  of  the  city  when 
need  be,  and  order  forthwith  to  arrest  any  found  rebellious  herein 
and  keep  them  in  safe  custody  until  they  shall  find  security  not  to 
leave  the  city  for  the  reasons  aforesaid  nor  anywise  absent  themselves  ; 
as  the  king  is  informed  that  some  citizens  and  inhabitants  of  the  said 
city  are  purposing  to  pass  over  sea  by  colour  of  the  retainer  of  lords, 
leaving  the  said  city  without  furnishing  in  case  any  evil  should  happen. 

Et  erat  patens. 

[Feeder  a.] 

*  In  this  writ  the  regnal  year  is  the  43rd  of  England  and  30th  of  France. 


43    EDWARD    III.  29 


1369.  Membrane  18 — cont. 

The  like  to  the  following  : 
June  12.  The  mayor  and  baiUffs  of  tlie  city  of  Winchester.      By  K.  and  C. 

Westminster.       [Ibid.^ 

June  18.  To  William  Cheyne  escheator  in  Somerset.  Order,  if  assured 
Westminster,  that  a  messuage  and  7  acres  of  land  in  Southpedirton  which  were  of 
Ralph  Daubency  kniglit  were  by  him  demised  after  the  licence  granted 
him  by  the  king  so  to  do,  and  that  he  has  not  aliened  to  any  man 
lands  held  in  chief  over  and  above  the  value  of  50/.  a  year,  to  remove 
the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  premises,  delivering 
up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  the  king  ordered  the  escheator 
to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  the  said  messuage  and  land 
were  by  John  de  Bokj'ngton  (sic)  late  escheator  taken  into  the  king's 
hand,  and  he  certified  that  they  were  by  John  de  Bekyngton  so  taken 
for  that  without  tlic  king's  licence  John  Speyne  acquired  the  same 
for  his  life  of  the  said  Ralph,  who  held  them  in  chief  by  knight  service 
as  parcel  of  the  manor  of  Southpedirton  ;  and  on  28  February  in 
the  1st  year  of  his  reign  the  king  of  his  favour  by  letters  patent  gave 
the  said  Ralph  licence  to  demise  to  particular  tenants  and  to  others 
at  his  will  lands  to  the  value  of  50/.  a  year  of  the  lands  he  lield  in 
chief,  to  be  lield  for  the  lives  of  those  to  whom  it  was  demised 
rendering  thereof  a  yearly  farm  to  the  said  Ralph  and  to  his  heirs. 

June  16.  To  William  Aunsel  escheator  in  Herefordshire  and  the  march  of 
Westminster.  Wales  adjacent.  Order  not  to  meddle  further  with  tlie  lands  of 
Ralph  de  Bromhull  tenant  by  kniglit  service  of  the  heir  of  Lawrence 
de  Hastynges  earl  of  Pembroke  tenant  in  chief,  late  a  minor  in  the 
king's  wardship,  which  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  the  said  Ralph  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  and  are 
yet  in  the  king's  hand  ;  as  Lawrence  Bromhull,  brother  and  heir  of 
the  said  Ralph,  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  on 
12  September  last  the  age  of  John  son  and  heir  of  the  said  earl  was 
proved,  and  the  king  took  his  homage,  and  commanded  livery  to  be 
given  him  of  his  father's  lands. 

July  18.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  suffer 

Westminster.  William  Spaldyng,  the  king's  bailiff  of  Eltham,  to  have  the  respite 
which  the  king  for  particular  causes  has  given  him  until  the  quinzaine 
of  Michaelmas  next  for  100.9.  of  him  demanded  by  exchequer  sum- 
mons of  the  arrears  of  his  account  for  the  first  year  he  was  the  king's 
bailiff  there,  releasing  any  distress  made  for  that  cause. 

Oct.  20.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order,  upon  the 

petition  of  John  Dabernoun  sheriff  of  Cornwall,  if  his  petition  contains 

the  truth,  to  discharge  him  at  the  exchequer  of  lOOs.  whereat  he  is 
amerced  toward  the  king  ;  as  the  said  John  has  shewn  the  king  that 
lately  he  had  a  day  to  appear  before  the  treasurer  and  barons  in  the 
exchequer  at  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  last  concerning  the  issues 
of  the  county,  that  for  certain  great  and  arduous  business  affecting 
Edward  prince  of  Aquitaine  and  Wales  and  earl  of  Cornwall  whereupon 
he  was  engaged,  his  attorneys  were  received  to  appear  for  him  in  the 
exchequer,  that  two  of  his  said  attorneys  are  dead  in  this  plague,  and 
he  is  amerced  as  aforesaid  for  that  he  nor  any  of  his  attorneys 
appeared  in  the  exchequer  on  the  first  day  of  the  quinzaine  aforesaid 
to  render  account  for  him,  and  that  one  of  the  said  attorneys  appeared 


30  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1309.  Membrane  18 — cont. 

on  the  second  day  tliereof  tliat  the  excliequer  was  open,  craving  to 
be  admitted  in  the  said  sheriflf's  name  to  render  that  account, 
wherefore  in  consideration  of  the  premises  he  has  prayed  the  king's 
grace  and  succour  in  that  behalf. 

Membrane  17. 

June  15.  To  Robert  de  Assheton  the  kind's  admiral  towards  the  west,  or  to 
Westminster,  his  lieutenant.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Ellis  Spelle,  William 
Canynges,  Henry  Cobyndon,  Walter  Pene,  John  Wotton,  Gregory 
Blanket,  John  Roper,  Richaid  Spicer,  Walter  Frampton,  Richard 
de  Brampton,  Edmund  Blanket,  John  Bathe,  Walter  Sampson.  John 
Wattes,  John  Profit  and  Thomas  Crosseman  merchants  of  Bristol, 
and  of  William  Smalwode  and  Reynold  Loue  merchants  of  London, 
to  make  a  lawful  appraisement  of  tlie  five  ships  of  Spain  now  newly 
taken  by  certain  the  king's  ships  of  the  western  fleet,  and  of  the  goods 
tlierein  found  at  the  time  of  their  capture,  to  take  of  the  said  merchants 
security  tliat  they  will  answer  to  the  owners  for  those  ships  and  goods 
or  the  value  thereof  in  case  they  be  contented  for  their  own  goods 
which  were  plundered  and  carried  away,  or  it  be  found  that  the  same 
were  not  taken  and  plundered  by  Henry  the  bastard  of  Spain  and 
his  people,  and  to  deliver  the  said  ships  and  goods  by  indenture  to 
the  said  merchants  upon  that  security,  to  have  and  keep  the  same 
until  duly  contented  of  their  own  goods  and  merchandise  or  the  value 
thereof,  certifying  in  chancery  under  seal  the  price  and  security  before 
mentioned  ;  as  by  a  complaint  on  behalf  of  the  said  merchants  it  is 
shewn  the  king  that  lately  the  said  William  Canjmges,  Ellis,  Henry 
and  Walter  Pene  laded  at  the  town  of  Bristol  a  ship  called  '  le  Clement ' 
of  Bristowe  of  152  tuns  burden  with  divers  goods  and  merchandise 
to  the  value  of  1,600/.,  that  the  said  Ellis,  John  Wotton,  Gregory, 
Jolm  Roper,  Richard  Spicer,  Walter  Frampton,  Richard  de  Brampton, 
Edmund  Blanket,  John  Bathe,  William  Canynges,  Walter  Sampson, 
John  Wattes,  John  Profit,  Thomas  Crosseman  and  WilHam  Smahvode 
there  laded  a  sliip  called  '  le  Welefare  '  of  Bristowe  of  200  tuns  burden 
and  another  ship  called  '  le  Marcjarete '  of  Plummuth  with  goods  to 
the  value  of  6,000/.  to  be  taken  to  the  towns  of  Lussebon  and  Sivile 
in  Spain,  and  that  the  said  Reynold  at  the  town  of  Vermieu  freighted 
a  ship  called  '  le  Seint  Marie  '  of  Mondak  in  Biskay  with  goods  to  the 
value  of  1,100  marks  to  be  taken  to  Flanders,  and  that  the  said  ships 
and  merchandise  being  foiind  at  Lussebon,  Siville  and  Vermieu  were 
by  the  said  bastard  and  his  people  in  hostile  manner  taken  and 
plundered  and  are  yet  detained  A\'ithout  making  any  satisfaction 
to  the  said  merchants,  whereupon  they  have  prayed  that  the  said 
five  ships  and  the  goods  therein  may  be  delivered  to  them  in  part 
satisfaction  or  recovery  of  their  goods  by  the  Spaniards  plundered 
and  carried  away,  and  the  king  would  succour  them  as  he  is  bound 
to  do  touching  the  recovery  of  their  goods  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will 
that  the  admiral  and  his  lieutenant  be  thereof  discharged  toward 
him.  Proviso  that  if  the  price  of  the  five  ships  and  the  goods  therein 
exceed  the  value  of  the  said  merchants'  goods  the  admiral  and  his 
lieutenant  shall  retain  the  excess  in  their  hands  and  answer  for  it  to 
the   king.  By   C. 

July  9.  To  Thomas  de  Musgrave  escheator  in  Northumberland  and  Cumber- 

Westminster,  land.     Order  to  deliver  in  dower  to  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Anthony 
de  Lucy  tenant  in  chief  the  castle  etc.  hereinafter  mentioned,  w^hich 


43    EDWARD    III. 


31 


1369.  Membrane  17 — cont. 

\v\i\\  the  assent  of  Richard  de  Ravenser  his  clerk,  attorney  and  receiver 
of  the  moneys  of  Queen  Pliilippa  to  wliom  the  king  granted  the  ward- 
sliip  of  two  thirds  thereof  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  heir,  the  king 
has  assigned  to  the  said  Joan  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir, 
with  tlic  members,  knights'  fees  etc.  thereto  belonging,  and  with  the 
issues  thereof  taken  since  Michaelmas  last  which  the  king  has  granted  her 
of  his  gift,  having  taken  of  her  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without 
his  licence,  namely  the  castle  and  manor  of  Langely  e'o.  Northumber- 
land with  its  members  etc.  extended  at  69Z.  lO.s.  9f/.  a  year,  a  third  part 
of  the  manor  of  Egremond  co.  Cumberland  with  its  members  etc. 
at  43/.  I8s.  9f/.  a  year,  all  the  free  farm  of  AUerdale  at  56s.  3J(/.,  the 
manor  of  Aspatrik  at  8Z.  14s.  Ad.,  the  manors  of  Crosby  and  Bretby  at 
14^  6s.  8rf.  a  year,  all  in  the  same  county,  and  the  advowson  of 
Ulnedale  co.  Cumberland. 


June  18.  To  William  Cheyne  escheator  in  Somerset.  Order  to  remove  the 
Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage  and  7  acres 
of  land  in  Southpedirton  which  were  of  Ralph  Daubeneye  knight, 
delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  the  king  commanded 
the  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wlierefore  the  premises 
were  by  John  de  Bekyngton  late  escheator  taken  into  the  king's 
hand,  and  he  certified  that  they  were  so  taken  for  that  without  the 
king's  licence  Jolm  Spyne  acquired  them  for  his  life  of  the  said  Ralph, 
who  held  them  in  chief  by  knight  service  as  parcel  of  the  manor  of 
Southpedirton  ;  and  on  28  February  in  the  first  year  of  liis  reign 
the  king  of  his  favour  by  letters  patent  granted  licence  to  the  said 
Ralph  to  demise  lands  to  the  value  of  50/.  a  year  of  those  which  he 
held  in  chief  by  knight  service  to  particular  tenants  and  to  others 
at  his  will,  to  hold  for  their  lives  rendering  a  yearly  farm  to  the  said 
Ralph  and  his  heirs. 

July  15.  To  Thomas  de  Chambernoun  escheator  in  Devon.     Order  to  cause 

Westminster.  John  son  and  heir  of  \\'illiam  Kaile*  tenant  in  chief  to  have  seisin 
of  liis  said  fatlier's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and 
by  reason  of  tlie  nonage  of  the  said  John  ;  as  he  has  proved  his  age 
before  William  Cheyne  escheator  in  Somerset,  and  the  king  has  taken 
his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [27934.] 

Membrane  16. 

June  12.  To  the  mayor,  recorder,  aldermen  and  sheriffs  of  London.  Order 
Westminster,  before  St.  Peter's  Cliains  next  to  cause  a  competent  place  without 
the  city  of  London  to  be  appointed  where  the  slaughter  of  beasts  may 
take  place  to  the  less  nuisance  and  grievance  of  the  said  city,  and  the 
bridge  called  Bochersbrigge  to  be  altogether  abated  and  removed, 
suffering  no  beasts  after  the  said  feast  to  be  slaughtered  in  the  shambles 
of  the  butchers  of  St.  Nicholas  by  the  manse  of  the  friars  minors  of 
London  or  elsewhere  within  the  city  ;  as  by  complaint  of  divers 
prelates,  nobles  and  others  of  the  said  city  having  houses  and  buildings 
in  the  stieets,  lanes  and  other  places  between  the  said  shambles  and 
the  river  Thames  near  Baynardescastell,  by  their  petition  presented 
in  full  parliament,  the  king  has  learned  that  by  slaughter  of  beasts 
in  the  said  shambles,  by  taking  offal  and  ordure  of  the  said  beasts 

*   In  the  warrant  Kele. 


32  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1369.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

arising  by  the  said  streets,  lanes  and  places  to  the  said  river  at  a  place 
called  Bochersbrigge  where  the  same  are  cast  into  the  river,  and  by 
the  shedding  of  their  blood  which  runs  down  from  the  said  shambles 
to  the  river  through  the  midst  of  the  said  streets  and  lanes,  grievous 
corruption  and  foulness  is  gendered  as  well  in  the  river  as  in  the  said 
streets,  lanes  and  places  in  neighbouring  parts  of  the  city,  so  that 
.scarce  any  man  dares  dwell  in  his  houses  by  reason  thereof  ;  and 
though  many  times  by  divers  writs  the  king  has  commanded  the 
mayor  etc.  to  apply  a  speedy  remedy  they  have  hitherto  taken  no 
heed  so  to  do,  to  the  nuisance  and  damage  of  the  complainants,  wherefore 
they  have  prayed  the  king  for  remedy  ;  and  in  consideration  of  the 
hurt  which  has  heretofore  arisen  from  so  taking  offal  and  ordure  to 
the  river  by  the  corruption  and  grievous  stench  and  by  the  loathsome 
sight,  and  of  the  greater  hurt  that  will  arise  if  a  remedy  be  not  speedily 
applied,  with  assent  of  the  whole  parliament  the  king  has  thought 
fit  that  the  said  bridge  be  before  the  feast  aforesaid  utterly  abated  and 
removed,  willing  that  such  slaughter  take  place  without  the  city 
where  it  may  better  be  done  and  may  be  less  noisome. 

July  2.  To  Robert  de  Aston  the  king's  admiral  towards  the  west  or  his 

Westminster,  lieutenant  in  the  port  of  Dovorre,  and  to  Ralph  Spigurnell  warden 
of  Dovorre  castle  and  of  the  Cinque  Ports.  Order,  upon  the  petition 
of  John  Guaygnet,  Peter  Duchesne  and  their  fellows  merchants  of  the 
duch}'  of  Brittany,  that  the  said  warden  and  lieutenant  shall  hear  the 
.  said  merchants'  complaint,  and  make  inquisition  by  the  oath  of  true 
men,  seamen  and  others  of  the  port  of  Dovorre,  of  the  king's  fleet 
between  Calais  and  Dovorre  and  of  the  neighbouring  parts,  concerning 
the  taking  and  eloigning  of  their  goods  and  merchandise,  and  shall 
cause  all  those  so  found  to  have  taken,  carried  away,  eloigned  and 
withheld  goods  of  the  said  merchants,  which  were  in  two  ships  of  the 
said  duchy  at  the  time  of  their  capture,  to  be  compelled  and  dis- 
trained to  restore  and  deliver  the  same  or  the  price  thereof,  and  in 
case  of  their  refusal  to  be  taken  by  their  bodies  and  imprisoned  until 
they  have  made  full  satisfaction  for  the  same,  so  that  they  be  nowise 
set  free  without  the  king's  special  command,  suffering  the  said 
merchants  with  the  said  ships  and  the  seamen  therein  to  pass  under 
safe  conduct  to  the  city  of  London  to  fetch  goods  brought  thither 
and  there  delivered  to  them,  and  without  let  to  return  thence  to  their 
own  parts,  certifying  in  chancery  under  their  seals  what  they  have 
done  in  the  matter,  and  sending  again  this  writ ;  as  by  a  complaint 
on  behalf  of  the  said  merchants  it  is  shewn  the  king  that  they  laded 
the  said  ships  at  the  town  of  Bruges  in  Flanders  with  cloths,  spices 
and  divers  other  goods  and  merchandise  to  be  taken  to  the  said  duchy 
for  traffic,  that  on  their  voyage  the  same  were  taken  at  sea  by  the 
king's  men  in  three  barges  of  the  said  fleet  as  goods  of  his  enemies  of 
France,  and  brought  to  the  port  of  Dovorre,  and  that  great  part  of 
them  is  by  certain  men  of  that  port  and  others  of  the  said  fleet  and 
of  neighbouring  parts  carried  away  and  eloigned,  whereof  they  may 
not  have  livery,  although  by  ordinance  of  the  council  it  is  appointed 
that  ships  and  all  goods  so  taken  shall  be  wholly  delivered  to  the  said 
merchants  as  being  of  the  king's  friendship,  to  be  brought  to  their 
own  parts  to  make  their  advantage  thereof,  wherefore  they  have 
prayed  for  restitution.  By  K.  and  C. 

To   the   bailiffs   of  Melcombe  and  Weymouth.     Order,   upon  the 
petition  of  John  Guaygnet  and  his  fellows  merchants  of    the  duchy 


43    EDWARD    III. 


33 


1369.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

of  Brittany,  to  dearrest  a  little  ship  of  the  said  duchy  of  8  tuas  burden, 
and  the  niercliants  and  seamen  who  came  therein  to  England,  suffering 
tliem  freely  without  let  to  return  to  the  said  duchy  ;  as  the  said  John 
and  his  fellows  have  shewm  the  king  that  they  came  to  England  in 
the  said  ship,  and  that  the  same  was  with  the  merchants  and  seamen 
arrested  in  the  said  port  by  the  said  bailiffs,  pretending  tliat  they  are 
of  the  king's  enemies  ;  and  the  king's  will  is  that  men  and  merchants 
of  the  said  duchy  be  not  so  arrested,  as  he  reckons  tliem  his  friends 
and  well  wishers. 

June  28.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  and  to  the  charaber- 
Weatrainster.  lains.  Order  to  summon  before  them  as  well  Robert  Munk  and  John 
Pledour  as  other  the  persons  hereinafter  mentioned  to  whom  certain 
sums  of  money  are  due  by  their  accounts,  to  view  the  tallies  and 
letters  thereof  made  to  every  one  of  them,  and  to  pay  him  of  the 
treasury  what  is  so  due,  or  make  him  an  assignment  wliere  he  may 
speedily  be  contented  ;  as  willing  to  be  certified  of  the  sums  wherein 
the  said  Robert  charged  himself  in  his  account  at  the  exchequer  for 
victuals  taken  and  purveyed  for  furnishing  the  to\^-n  of  Calais  during 
the  time  that  lie  was  bj^  divers  commissions  appointed  so  to  do  together 
with  the  said  John  and  by  himself  respectively,  by  divers  writs  the 
king  commanded  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  to.  view  the  said 
accounts  and  certify  in  chancery  under  the  exchequer  seal  what 
they  should  find,  and  they  certified  that  upon  search  of  the  rolls  of 
the  particulars  of  the  account  of  the  said  Robert  and  John  purveyors 
of  victuals  to  the  king's  use  for  furnishing  the  said  town,  namely  of 
corn  taken  in  Lincolnshire,  Cambridgeshire,  Huntingdonshire  and 
Norffolk  in  the  33rd  and  34th  years  of  the  reign,  it  is  found  that  they 
charged  themselves  with  corn  taken  of  divers  persons  for  which  no 
payment  was  by  them  made,  namely  519  quarters  of  wheat  price 
107^.  25.  l^d.  taken  of  divers  men  in  Lincolnshire,  493  quarters  of 
wheat  price  125Z.  45.  3|c/.  taken  of  divers  men  in  Cambridgeshire  and 
Huntingdonshire,  and  136  quarters  of  wheat  price  37/.  85.  taken 
of  divers  men  in  Norffolk,  that  certain  of  those  persons  are  at  the 
receipt  of  the  exchequer  contented  of  28/.  155.  of  tlie  price  aforesaid, 
that  the  said  Robert  likewise  charged  himself  with  divers  corn  for 
which  no  payment  was  by  him  made,  namely  385  quarters  of  wheat 
price  134/.  155.,  48  quarters  of  beans  and  peas  price  8/.  I65.,  18  quarters 
of  maslin  price  725.,  147  quarters  of  oats  price  19/.  125.,  and  545 
quarters  of  malt  price  181/.  135.  4rf.,  but  that  certain  persons  are  at 
the  receipt  of  the  exchequer  contented  of  15/.  45.  of  the  price  of  certain 
com  by  him  so  purveyed.  By  K. 


June  30.  To  the  same.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  the  said  Robert,  to 
Westminster,  view  the  tallies  he  has  with  him  and  the  foils  thereof  which  are  in 
the  exchequer,  and  if  assured  that  he  has  paid  the  sums  therein  con- 
tained to  the  persons  to  whom  thej^  are  due,  to  take  of  him  the  said 
tallies  and  cause  those  sums  to  be  paid  him  of  the  treasury,  discharging 
the  king  thereof  toward  the  aforesaid  persons  ;  as  the  king  has  ordered 
them  to  summon  etc.  (as  above,  mutatis  mutandis),  and  now  the  said 
Robert  has  prayed  the  king  for  payment,  seeing  that  he  has  con- 
tented the  persons  to  whom  they  were  due  of  divers  sums,  as  may 
appear  by  the  tallies  and  foils  aforesaid.  By  K. 

OR  3 


34 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1309.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

Nov.  20.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  stay 
VVeatminBter.  their  demand  made  by  exchequer  summons  upon  the  baihfTs  and 
burgesses  of  liridport  co.  Dorset  to  account  before  them  concerning 
forfeitures  of  gold  and  silver  in  coined  money,  in  the  lump  or  the  plate, 
of  vessels  or  jewels,  made  by  colour  of  a  writ  of  the  king  concerning  a 
search  to  be  made  in  that  port  to  the  said  bailiffs  addressed  and  sent 
to  the  treasurer  and  barons  in  the  estreats  of  chancery,  thereof  dis- 
charging the  said  bailiffs  and  burgesses  ;  as  on  their  behalf  it  is  shewn 
the  king  that,  although  there  is  no  landing  of  ships  or  boats  at  the 
said  to^\■n  or  within  5  leagues  thereof  nor  any  port,  nor  ever  was,  by 
vutue  of  the  said  ^^'rit  directing  that  no  man  under  pain  of  forfeiture 
thereof  should  from  that  port  take  gold,  silver  or  Jewels  out  of  the 
realm,  the  treasurer  and  barons  are  causing  them  to  be  distrained 
to  account  for  such  forfeitures  as  if  there  were  a  port  there,  as  there 
is  not,  praying  for  remedy  ;  and  it  is  witnessed  in  chancery  that 
no  ships  or  boats  may  nor  ever  might  come  or  pass  to  the  said  town 
or  within  5  leagues  thereof. 


Membrane  15, 

June  15.  To  Thomas  Chaumbernoun  escheator  in  Devon.  Order  not  to 
Westminster,  meddle  further  with  the  lands  held  by  Richard  de  Hywyssh  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee  as  well  of  the  heir  of  John  de  ( 'laville  as  of  the  fifth 
part  of  the  manor  of  Chepyngtoryton,  and  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  William  his  son, 
saving  to  the  king  the  issues  thereof  taken,  to  be  levied  to  his  use 
of  those  who  shall  law  fully  be  chargeable  thereAvith  ;  as  it  is  found 
by  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  Thomas  Cheyne  late 
escheator,  that  the  said  Richard  at  his  death  held  by  the  service  of 
the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  a  messuage,  one  carucate  of  land 
and  41.  of  rent  at  Stouford  in  chief  as  of  the  fifth  part  of  the  manor 
of  Chepyngtoryton,  which  fifth  part  was  of  John  de  Chelfham  and 
was  lately  in  the  king's  hand  as  an  escheat,  a  mill  and  one  carucate 
of  land  at  la  Leghe  All  Saints  of  the  said  heir,  then  within  age  and  in 
the  king's  wardship  being  tenant  by  knight  service  of  the  heir  of  Hugh 
le  Dispenser  tenant  in  chief  liliewise  within  age  and  in  the  king's 
wardship,  and  held  a  messuage,  one  carucate  of  land  and  4Z.  of  rent  at 
Hywyssh  of  others  than  the  king,  that  the  said  William  his  son  is 
his  next  heir  and  on  Monday  before  Michaelmas  in  the  39th  year  of 
the  reign  was  of  the  age  of  20  years,  and  that  John  Aslegh  has  taken 
4  marks  a  j^ear  of  the  premises  in  Leghe  All  Saints  by  grant  of  the 
said  Richard  to  him  made  for  life,  the  late  escheator  by  his  repre- 
sentative has  taken  the  residue  thereof,  and  Richard  de  Merton  and 
the  late  escheator  have  taken  the  issues  and  profits  of  the  premises  at 
Huw^ssh  and  Stouford  as  chief  lords  since  the  death  of  the  said 
Richard  Hy^wyssh,  who  died  31  January  in  the  35th  year  of  the  reign  ; 
and  on  6  May  in  the  said  35th  j^ear  the  king  by  letters  patent  gave 
the  fifth  part  aforesaid  to  the  said  Thomas  and  his  heirs  \A'ith  the 
knights'  fees  thereto  pertaining,  and  after  on  4  November  in  the 
38th  year  the  age  of  William  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Claville  was 
proved,  and  the  king's  hand  removed  from  the  lands  which  his  father 
held  by  knight  servnce  of  the  said  Hugh's  heir  ;  and  the  said  William 
son  of  William  {sic)  has  proved  his  age  before  Robert  de  Wysdom 
escheator  in  Cornwall. 


43    KDWARD    TTT.  35 


1309.  Membrane  15 — cont. 

To  Robert  W'ysdoiii  escheator  in  Cornwall.  Order  to  cause  William 
son  of  Riehard  Hywyssli  to  have  livery  of  the  lands  which  his  said 
father  at  his  death  held  in  fee  simple,  not  meddlinjr  further  therewith  ; 
as  it  is  found  by  an  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command  by 
Thomas  Cheyne  late  escheator  in  Devon,  that  the  said  Richard  at  his 
death  held  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  a  messtiage,  one  carueate  of  land 
and  4/.  of  rent  at  Stouford  co.  Devon  of  the  king  as  of  the  fifth  part  of 
the  manor  of  Chepyngtoryton  whi(;h  was  of  Jolm  de'Chelfham  then 
in  the  king's  hand  and  a  mill  and  land  at  la  Leghe  All  Saints  of 
the  heir  of  John  dc  (^laville  etc.  {as  above)  ;  and  by  another 
inquisition,  taken  likewise  at  the  king's  command  by  tlie  said 
Robert,  it  is  found  that  the  said  Richard  at  his  death  held  in 
Cornwall  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  Edward  prince  of  Aquitaine  and 
Wales  by  knight  service  the  manors  of  Trenant  and  Meinely  and  a 
sixth  part  of  the  town  of  Truru  with  the  advowsons  of  the  church  of 
St.  Euwe  t5  the  said  manor  of  Meinely  [pertaining]  and  of  the  church  of 
Truru,  namely  to  present  at  the  third  turn,  and  divers  other  manors  and 
lands  of  divers  other  lords  by  divers  services  as  well  in  his  demesne 
as  of  fee  simple  as  in  fee  tail  jointly  with  Alice  late  his  wife,  that  the 
said  William  his  son  is  his  next  heir  and  now  of  full  age,  and  that  the 
said  prince  caused  all  the  lands  which  were  of  the  said  Richard 
within  Cornwall  to  be  seized  into  liis  hand  together  with  the  body  of 
the  said  son  and  heir,  then  within  age,  for  that  the  said  Richard 
held  the  manors  of  Trenant  and  Meinely  of  him  by  knight  service  ; 
and  before  the  king  and  council  it  is  debated  that  by  reason  of  the  lands 
of  the  said  Richard's  heir  in  Devon  his  marriage  pertains  to  the  king 
and  not  to  the  said  prince,  and  he  has  contented  the  king  at  the 
receipt  of  the  exchequer  for  200  marks  for  the  same  ;  and  by  inspection 
of  the  rolls  of  chancery  tlie  king  is  assured  that  on  6  May  in  the  35th 
year  of  his  reign  by  letters  patent  he  gave  the  said  fifth  part  of  the  manor 
of  Chepyngtoryton  to  Thomas  Cheyne  and  his  heirs  with  the 
knights'  fees  thereto  pertaining,  and  after  on  4  November  in  the  38th 
year  the  age  of  William  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Claville  was  proved,  and 
the  king  caused  his  hand  to  be  removed  from  the  lands  which  the 
said  John  held  by  knight  service  of  the  king  as  of  the  heir  of  Hugh  le 
Dispenser  late  within  age  and  in  his  wardship,  wherefore  he  com- 
manded livery  to  be  given  to  the  said  William  son  and  heir  of  the  said 
Richard  de  Huwyssh  of  his  father's  lands  in  Devon,  as  he  has  proved 
his  age  before  the  said  Robert. 

July  3.  To  Simon  de  Mordon  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator 

Westminster,  therein.  Order  to  cause  Roger  son  of  Roger  de  Saperton,  cousin  and 
heir  of  Margaret  daughter  and  heir  of  John  Souche*  tenant  in  chief, 
to  have  seisin  of  the  said  John's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  Margaret,  who 
died  within  age  and  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  therefore  yet  in  his 
hand  ;  as  the  said  Roger  the  son  has  proved  his  age  before  Robert  de 
Twyford  escheator  in  Derbyshire,  and  the  king  has  taken  his 
homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [27918.] 

To  Robert  de  Twyford  escheator  in  Derbyshire.  Like  order ; 
as  Roger  son  of  Roger  de  Saperton  has  proved  his  age  before  him. 

By  p.s.  (the  same  writ). 

*  In  the  warrant  Senche. 


36  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLT^S. 


1360.  Membrane  15 — cont. 

July  8.  To  the  wardens  of  the  Flete  prison.     Order  to  deliver  by  indenture 

Westminster,  to  Ro»or  son  of  I^oger  do  Saperton,  cousin  and  heir  of  Margaret 
daughter  and  heir  of  John  Souche  tenant  in  chief  who  died  within  age 
and  in  the  kind's  wardship,  the  wardenship  of  the  .said  prison  and  all 
prisoners  under  tlicir  custody  therein,  together  with  the  issues  thereof 
by  them  taken  since  3  July  last,  not  meddling  further  therewith  ; 
as  on  that  day  the  said  Roger's  age  was  proved,  and  the  king  took 
his  homage  and  fealty,  and  commanded  divers  esclieators  to  give 
him  seisin  of  the  lands  of  the  said  John  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  said  Margaret's  nonage  ;  and  it 
is  found  by  inquisition  after  tlie  said  John's  deatli,  taken  at  the  king's 
command  by  Walter  Turk  late  mayoi-  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator 
therein,  that  at  his  death  he  held  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  a 
messuage  and  garden  etc.  within  the  king's  close  at  Flete  in  the 
suburb  of  London  with  the  wardship  of  all  prisoners  committed  to 
that  prison,  taking  for  the  wardship  of  the  prison  Gd.  a  day  by  the  hands 
of  the  slieriffs  of  London  for  the  time  being,  and  25.  4rf.  in  name  of  his 
fee  of  every  man  committed  to  the  same,  and  that  the  said  Margaret 
was  his  daughter  and  next  heir  and  was  within  age. 

To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  admit 
the  said  Roger  before  them  in  the  exchequer  to  the  exercise  of  the 
said  office,  suffering  him  there  to  perform  and  exercise  the  same  as  his 
ancestors  used  to  do. 

The  like  to  the  justices  of  the  Bench. 

Membrane  14. 

July  2.  To  the  guardians  of  the  peace  in  Kent,  and  to  the  sheriff.     Whereas 

Westminster,  lately  being  desirous  to  provide  against  the  hurt  and  peril  which  is  to 
be  feared  for  lack  of  furnishing  of  the  men  of  the  realm,  the  king 
appointed  them,  four,  three  and  two  of  them,  by  themselves  and  their 
deputies  to  array  all  the  fencible  men  in  that  county  mthin  liberties 
and  without  between  tlie  ages  of  16  and  60  years,  to  cause  all  men 
at  arms,  armed  men,  hobblers  and  archers  to  be  furnished  with  arms, 
every  man  according  to  his  estate,  possessions  and  means,  to  be  put 
in  thousands,  hundreds  and  twenties,  and  kept  in  such  array,  so 
that  before  a  set  day  now  past  all  should  be  arrayed,  furnished,  tried 
and  kept  in  array  ready  to  march  in  defence  of  the  realm  whenever 
peril  should  threaten  by  inroads  of  the  enemy  and  they  should  have 
Avaming  on  the  king's  behalf,  and  to  cause  all  such  men  to  be  distrained 
and  compelled  so  to  arm  themselves  by  imprisonment,  by  taking  their 
goods  and  chattels  and  their  lands  into  the  king's  hand  and  otherwise, 
whereof  they  have  done  and  are  taking  heed  to  do  little  or  nothing 
as  the  king  has  learned,  although  grievous  peril  is  threatening, 
wherefore  the  king  is  moved  to  anger ;  and  whereas  the  French  the 
king's  enemies  have  broken  the  peace  last  made  at  Calais  between 
the  king  and  them,  have  in  warlike  fashion  invaded  the  king's 
dominions  in  divers  parts  of  France  and  Aquitaine,  taking  and  putting 
to  their  own  hands  castles,  cities,  towns  and  other  places  there  and 
slaying  the  king's  lieges  therein,  and  do  occupy  and  hold  the  same, 
and  therewith  not  content  have  made  ready  a  great  fleet  of  ships  and 
galleys  upon  the  sea  coast  in  divers  parts  with  a  host  of  armed  men, 
hastening  as  speedily  as  they  may  to  invade  the  realm,  to  conquer 
and  destroy  the  king  and  people  and  overthrow  his  dominion  ;     and 


43    EDWAKl)    111  37 


1369.  Membrane  14 — cont. 

whereas  the  king  would  by  the  grace  of  Clod  meet  sueli  hurt  and  peril, 
making  provision  by  all  means  for  the  safety  and  defence  of  his  realm 
and  people  so  far  as  he  may  :  order  upon  their  allegiance  and  under 
pain  of  forfeiture  of  life  and  hmb,  in  consideration  of  the  hurt  and 
peril  aforesaid,  the  need  being  so  urgent,  to  postpone  all  else  and 
cause  the  furnishing  and  arraying  of  singular  the  men  of  that 
county  within  liberties  and  without  to  be  done  and  accomplished 
without  delay,  sparing  none  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition, 
so  that  all  shall  be  well  armed,  arrayed  and  tried,  every  man 
according  to  his  estate,  possessions  and  means,  ready  to  march  on 
the  king's  service  against  the  said  enemies,  to  overcome  and  destroy 
them  and  defeat  their  malice  wherever  need  be  and  when  peril  shall 
threaten  within  the  realm,  so  bearing  themselves  that  by  their 
negligence,  lukewarmness  or  default  no  harm  shall  come  to  the  king 
or  the  realm,  and  nevertheless  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  in 
singular  the  hundreds,  wapentakes,  cities,  boroughs,  market  towns, 
seaports  and  j)laccs  in  the  county  within  liberties  and  without,  that 
all  and  singular  between  the  ages  aforesaid,  of  whatsoever  estate  or 
condition  tiiey  be,  shall  under  pain  of  the  forfeiture  aforesaid  with  all 
speed  arm  and  furnish  themselves  according  to  their  estate,  possessions 
and  means,  so  that  they  be  well  armed  and  arrayed,  ready  with  other 
the  king's  lieges  to  march  against  the  said  enemies  w^ithin  the  realm, 
if  they  shall  enter  the  same.  By  K.  and  C. 

\Fosdera.\ 
The  like  to  the  following,  mutatis  mutandis  : 

The  guardians  of  the  peace  and  sheriff  of  Surrey,  and  of  33  other 
counties,  the  guardians  of  the  peace  in  the  parts  of  Holand, 
Lyndeseye  and  Kesteven  respectively  in  Lincolnshire  and  the 
sheriff  of  the  county,  the  guardians  of  the  peace  in  the  North- 
trithing,  Estrithing  and  Westrithing  respectively  in  Yorkshire 
and  the  sheriff  of  the  county. 
[Ibid.] 

Aug.  27.  To  John  de  Bisshopeston  escheator  in  Kent  and  Sussex.  Order 
Rotherhithe.  to  deliver  to  William  de  Say,  son  and  heir  of  Geoffrey  de  Say,  the 
manors  of  Berlyng  and  Burgham  co.  Kent  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  death  of  Maud  who  was  wife  of  the  said  Geoffrey,  together 
with  the  issues  thereof  taken,  but  not  to  meddle  further  with  the 
manors  of  Hammes  and  Bucstede  co.  Sussex  likewise  so  taken, 
delivering  up  any  issues  of  these  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
divers  inquisitions,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Maud  at  her 
death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  (sic)  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of 
fee  nor  in  service,  but  held  the  manors  of  Berlyng  and  Burgham  in 
dower  after  the  death  of  the  said  Geoff'rey  with  reversion  to  the  said 
\\'il]iam,  the  manor  of  Hamme  to  her  and  the  heirs  male  of  the  body 
of  the  said  Geoffrey  by  gift  of  Thomas  de  Hethe,  and  the  manor  of 
Bucstede  to  her  and  the  heirs  of  the  bodies  of  the  said  Geoff'rey  and 
herself  by  gift  of  Richard  de  Chudcrlegh  parson  of  MaimehuU  and 
John  Cramphorne,  that  the  said  William  is  son  and  lieu-  of  the  said 
Geoffrey  and  William  {sic)  and  of  full  age,  and  that  the  manors  of 
Berlyng  and  Burgham  are  held  in  chief  as  of  the  crown  by  knight 
service,  the  manors  of  Hammes  and  Bucstede  of  others  than  the  king  ; 
and  on  4  July  in  the  35th  year  of  the  reign  the  age  of  the  said  William 
was  proved,  and  the  king  took  his  homage,  and  commanded  livery 
to  be  given  him  of  his  father';^  lauds. 


38 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


18(»!).  Membrane  14 — coni. 

Aug.   IG.  To   the  cijlleetors  ot"  customs   in   the   port  of   Melcombe.      Order, 

Westminster,  upon  the  petition  of  James  Jakemyn  merchant  of  Florence,  to  suffer 
him  by  himself  and  his  servants  to  bring  to  the  town  of  Melcombe 
all  his  wool  bought  and  {)urveyod  in  Somerset  and  Dorset,  and  before 
Micliaelmas  next  to  lade  and  cocket  the  same  in  the  port  thereof,  and 
after  paying  4().s.  8rf.  upon  every  sack  for  the  customs  and  subsidies 
thereupon  due,  to  take  it  without  let  to  foreign  parts,  as  he  has 
prayed  licence  to  do.  Proviso  tliat  no  wool,  woolfells  or  hides  be 
laded  in  the  said  port  nor  taken  over  after  Michaelmas  without 
the   king's  special  licence. 

Sept.  22.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  London.  Order,  upon 
fKiuK's]  the  petition  of  Walter  de  Bardes  merchant,  to  view  letters  of  cocket  by 
Langley.  j^jj^j  produced,  and  if  assured  that  4  sacks  10  stone  8/6.  of  wool  were 
weighed  and  cocketed  at  the  staple  of  Kothcland,  and  that  the  custom 
thereupon  due  was  well  and  truly  paid,  to  suffer  him  to  lade  the  same  in 
the  said  port  and  without  a  second  payment  of  custom  or  subsidy  to  take 
them  without  let  to  foreign  parts  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  he  lately 
caused  the  said  wool  of  the  growth  of  Wales,  being  of  John  de  Delves 
knight  in  Wales,  to  be  bought  and  carried  to  the  city  of  London, 
thence  [to  be  taken]  to  foreign  parts  to  make  his  advantage  thereof, 
and  that  the  collectors  are  demanding  of  him  the  custom  and  subsidy 
for  the  same  as  if  not  customed  and  cocketed,  though  it  w'as  weighed 
and  cocketed  as  aforesaid  and  the  custom  paid,  as  b}^  letters  of  cocket 
appears,  praying  for  remedy  ;  and  in  the  ordinances  lately  made 
for  holding  staples  of  wool  within  the  realm  it  is  contained  (among 
other  things)  that  it  shall  be  lawful  for  men  of  Ireland  and  Wales, 
who  in  those  parts  may  not  deliver  their  wool,  woolfells  and  hides 
to  foreign  mercliants,  to  come  therewith  to  any  staple  in  England 
after  the  same  are  in  Ireland  or  Wales  customed  and  cocketed,  and 
when  they  have  brought  thither  the  letters  of  cocket  witnessing  the 
premises,  neither  they  nor  the  merchants  buying  that  merchandise 
shall  a  second  time  pay  customs  or  subsidies  thereupon.  Proviso 
that  no  wool  of  the  growth  of  England  shall  be  taken  wath  this 
wool  to  foreign  parts  by  colour  of  these  presents. 


Membrane  13. 

July  6.  To  "W.  archbishop  of  Canterbury.     Whereas  in  the  last  parliament, 

Westminster,  by  the  assent  of  the  archbisliop  and  of  other  the  prelates,  lords  and 
commons  of  the  realm,  it  was  ordered  and  agreed  that  all  men  of  the 
said  realm,  as  well  clerks  as  lajanen,  should  be  armed  and  arrayed, 
every  man  according  to  his  estate,  possessions  and  means,  to  march 
for  the  salvation  and  defence  of  the  church  and  realm  against  the 
king's  enemies,  if  any  should  enter  the  realm,  wherefore  by  divers 
commissions  the  king  has  in  singular  the  counties  of  the  realm 
appointed  certain  his  lieges  to  array  all  the  fencible  men  between  the 
ages  of  16  and  60  years,  and  to  cause  them  to  be  arrayed  and  armed, 
putting  them  in  thousands,  hundreds  and  twenties  so  that,  being 
furnished  with  arms,  they  shall  be  ready  to  resist  the  enemies  as 
aforesaid  ;  and  whereas  the  French,  the  king's  enemies,  have  broken 
the  peace  last  made  at  Calais  between  France  and  England,  and  have 
invaded  the  king's  dominions  over  sea,  taking  and  putting  to  their  own 
hand  in  manner  of  war  great  number  of  cities,  castles,  towns  and  places 
and  slaying  the  king's  lieges  therein,  and  do  hold  and  occupy  the  same, 


43    EDWARD    III.  dO 


1369.  Membrane  13 — cont. 

and  therewith  not  content  have  gatliered  a  great  fleet  of  ships  upon  the 
sea  coast  in  divers  parts  witli  a  host  of  warriors  and  armed  men, 
hasteninjz  to  make  ready  as  soon  as  they  may  to  invade  the  realm,  to 
overcome  and  destroy  the  king,  his  realm  and  people  and  to  overthrow 
his  dominion  and  the  church  of  England  ;  and  wliereas  the  king  would 
with  all  his  power  make  provision  for  the  salvation  and  defence  of  the 
church  and  realm,  in  consideration  that  the  archbishop  and  other 
prelates  and  all  the  clergy  are  boimd  to  lay  to  their,  hand  with  other 
the  king's  lieges,  and  help  to  resist  the  said  enemies  :  order  and 
request  upon  his  allegiance,  as  he  h)ves  the  king's  lionour  and  his  own 
and  desires  the  salvation  of  the  church  and  realm,  in  consideration  of  the 
hurt  and  peril  wiiich  are  threatening  by  the  attacks  of  the  said  enemies, 
without  delay  to  cause  all  abbots,  priors,  men  of  religion  and  other 
ecclesiastical  perscms  of  his  diocese  whatsoever  to  be  armed,  arrayed, 
furnished  with  arms  every  man  between  the  aforesaid  ages  according  to 
his  estate,  possessions  and  means,  and  ])ut  in  thousands,  hundreds  and 
twenties,  so  that  they  shall  be  ready  with  other  the  king's  lieges  to 
march  against  the  said  enemies  within  the  realm,  with  God's  help 
to  overcome  and  destroy  them,  defeating  and  crushing  their  insolence 
and  malice.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Foedera.] 

The  like  to  the  archbishop  of  York,  and  to  singular  the  bishops 
throughout  England. 

[Ibid.] 

Jime  8.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order,  upon  the 

Weetminster.  petition  of  John  de  Upton  of  New  iSarum  and  Martin  Moulissh  canon 
of  the  church  of  St.  Mary  Salisbury,  to  take  of  them  an  oath  that  they 
will  well  and  truly  render  account  of  the  works  done  about  the  king's 
park  of  Claryndon  and  the  wages  and  other  payments  made,  and  to  audit 
their  said  account,  allo^\'ing  them  at  the  exchequer  what  thereby  should 
reasonably  be  allowed,  and  doing  further  what  the  nature  of  the 
account  requires,  the  absence  of  John  de  A\'ilton  parson  of  St.  Thomas 
New  Sarum  and  controller  of  the  said  works  not^\'ithstanding  ;  as 
lately  the  king  appointed  the  said  Joim  de  Upton  and  Martin  jointly 
and  severally  to  cause  the  paling  about  the  said  park  to  be  made  and 
repaired  of  timber  windfallen  within  the  park,  and  the  manor  and  the 
houses  of  the  king's  new  lodge  in  the  said  park  to  be  repaired  and 
roofed,  and  to  pay  all  manner  of  wages  and  payments  as  well  for  buying 
and  purveying  divers  things  needful  for  tlie  said  works  as  for  other 
costs  whatsoever,  by  view  and  testimony  of  the  keeper  of  the  said 
manor  and  park  or  his  representative,  of  the  verderers  therein  appointed, 
and  of  the  said  controller  ;  and  now  their  petition  shews  that  they  are 
ready  to  account  as  aforesaid,  that  the  said  controller  is  over  sea,  and 
that  the  treasurer  and  barons  have  put  off  proceeding  to  the  audit 
of  their  account  without  his  presence  and  witness,  and  the  king  would 
not  that  the  same  be  for  that  reason  delayed. 

April  28.  To  John  Knyvet  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hold  pleas 
Westminster,  before  the  king.  Order,  if  the  inquisitions  which  remain  to  be  taken 
before  them,  namely  one  between  the  king  and  William  sou  and  heir 
of  Henry  de  Hertlyngton  concerning  the  manors  of  Hertlyngton  and 
Braham  and  certain  other  lands  in  Yorkshue,  another  between  Richard 
de  Stury  (suing  for  the  king)  and  the  said  ^Allliam  concerning  the 


40 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSK  ROLLS. 


1369. 


Mtwhrane  13 — cont. 
said  manors,  may  not  conveniently  be  so  taken,  to  send  the  same  by 
writ  of    wisi  prius  to  be  taken  before  one  of  them  or  before  others 


according  to  the  statute. 


By  C. 


April  26. 

Westminster, 


To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  allow 
tlie  prior  of  Rochester,  cliicf  master  of  the  king's  works  in  Rochester 
castle,  in  his  account  at  the  exchequer,  (W.  a  day  so  long  as  he  .shall 
stand  in  that  office  for  one  purveyor  by  him  appointed  for  purveyance 
of  divers  things  affecting  the  said  works.  By  K. 


June  20.  To  John  Knyvet  and  liis  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hold  pleas 
Westminster,  before  the  knig.  Order  by  writ  of  nixi  prius  to  send  an  inquisition 
which  remains  to  be  taken  in  a  plea  of  trespass  pending  before  them 
between  the  king  and  Richard  Melbourne  and  others  to  be  taken  as 
they  shall  think  fit  according  to  the  statutes  and  the  law  and  custom 
of  the  realm.  By  C. 

July  12.  To  Thomas  de  Musgrave  escheator  in  Northumberland.  Order 
Westminster,  to  take  of  Eleanor  who  \\as  \viie  of  Henry  Tayleboys  tenant  in  chief 
an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to 
assign  her  dower  of  the  lands  of  her  said  husband  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  his  death,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled 
in  chancery  as  usual. 

To  Nicholas  de  Styuecle  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire.  Like  order, 
mutatis  mutandis,  to  assign  dower  to  Alice  who  was  wife  of  John  de 
Mepirsale. 

July  9.  To   Nicholas   de   Styuecle   escheator   in    Huntingdonshire.     Order 

Westminster,  to  take  the  fealty  of  Joan  late  the  wife  of  Edward  de  Lovetot 
according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  not  to  meddle 
further  with  a  messuage,  one  carucate  of  land  and  lOZ.  of  rent  in 
Southo,  Beuton  and  Overton  Waterville  which  are  held  in  chief  and 
with  divers  other  lands  not  so  held,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the 
said  Edward's  death,  delivering  to  her  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
the  said  Edward  at  liis  death  held  the  premises  jointly  with  the  said 
Joan  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  the  said  Edward,  having  obtained  the 
king's  licence,  and  divers  other  lands  likewise  jointly  with  her. 

Oct.  5.  To  the  baihffs  of  the  city  of  Rochester.     Order  by  amercements 

Westminster,  and  otherwise  to  compel  all  men  of  that  city  who  have  any  tenements 
in  Eppelane  and  Horslane  there,  and  are  bound  so  to  do,  to  repair 
and  pave  the  said  lanes,  namely  every  man  according  to  the  rate  of 
his  holding  therein,  sparing  none  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  that  those 
lanes  are  so  miry  and  deep  that  a  man  may  hardly  pass  through  them 
to  Rochester  castle,  and  his  will  is  that  they  be  speedily  repaired. 

Aug.  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  Wiltesir.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John 
Westminster.  Bullok  of  London  the  king's  tapicer,  to  cause  three  sarplers  of  wool 
to  be  dearrested  and  delivered  to  him,  suffering  him  or  his  servants 
without  let  to  bring  the  same  to  the  city  of  London  ;  as  his  petition 
shews  that  three  sarplers  of  wool  by  him  lately  bought  for  making 
carpets  to  the  king's  use  are  unlawfully  arrested  at  Colyngburne  by 
Stephen   Newe  and  Thomas  West  of   Chysebury,   to  his   hurt   and 


43  EDWARD  III.  41 


1369.  Membrane  13 — cont. 

delaying  the  making  of  the  king's  carpets  which  he  has  ordered  to  be 
thereof  made,  praying  for  the  dearrest  and  deUvery  of  the  said  wool  ; 
and  it  is  not  lawful  nor  reasonable  that  an  arrest  of  the  king's  goods 
be  anywise  made  by  any  of  his  subjects  within  the  realm. 


Membrane  12. 

July  8.  To    the   sheriff    of    Lancastre.     Order,    under    pain    of    forfeiture, 

Westminster,  without  any  delay  to  cause  the  GOO  sheaves  of  arrows  by  the  king 
commanded,  of  seasoned  wood  and  not  of  green  as  he  will  answer  it 
before  the  king,  to  be  purve\'ed  in  his  bailiwick  within  liberties  and 
without,  fitted  with  heads  of  steel  after  the  pattern  of  the  iron  head 
delivered  to  him  on  the  king's  behalf,  and  to  come  to  the  Tower  of 
London  tlierc  to  be  delivered  by  indenture  to  John  de  Sleford  the  king's 
clerk,  keeper  of  his  wardrobe  in  the  Tower,  so  that  they  be  there  on 
Michaelmas  day  at  latest,  knowing  assuredly  that,  if  the  same  be  not 
of  seasoned  wood,  the  king  will  cause  the  sheriff  to  be  charged  with  the 
costs  thereupon  laid  out,  and  punished  by  forfeiture  ;  as  the  sheriff 
has  hitheito  taken  j\o  heed  to  do  aught  concerning  the  said  sheaves 
which  the  king  commanded  to  be  purveyed  and  delivered  as 
aforesaid  for  his  service,  and  thereby  tlie  furtherance  of  the  king's 
business  affecting  liim  and  tlie  defence  of  the  realm  is  delayed,  whereat 
he  is  moved  to  anger.  By  K. 

{Foedera.'\ 

The  like  to  the  sheriii  of  Oxford  and  Berkshire,  and  to  seven  sheriffs 
of  nine  other  counties,  to  purvey  600  sheaves  in  every  county. 

{Ibid.'] 

To  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton.     Like  order,  mutatis  mutandis,  to 
purvey  and  deliver  402  sheaves  of  arrows,  arrears  of  the  600  sheaves 
commanded  as  above. 
[Ihid.] 
The  Uke  to  the  following  : 

The  sheriff  of  Stafford  to  purvey  480  sheaves,  arrears  of  600. 
The  sheriff  of  Essex  to  purvey  295  sheaves,  arrears  of  600. 
The  sheriff  of  Surrey  and  Sussex  to  purvey  800  sheaves,  arrears  of 

1,200. 
The  sheriff  of  Lincoln  to  purvey  218  sheaves,  arrears  of  600. 
The  sheriff  of  Notingham   and  Derby   to  purvey  407   sheaves, 

arrears  of  1,200. 
The  sheriff  of  Hereford  to  purvey  360  sheaves,  arrears  of  600. 
The  sheriff  of  Bedford  and  Bukingham  to  purvey  881  sheaves, 
arrears  of  1,200. 
{Ibid.'] 

June  15.  To  William  Auncell  escheator  in  Herefordshire  and  the  march  of 
Westminster.  Wales  adjacent.  Order  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  castle  of 
Ewj-as  Lacy  in  the  said  march,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the 
death  of  Bartholomew  de  Burgherssh  knight,  delivering  to  Margaret 
his  wife  any  issues,  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Bartholomew  at  liis 
death  held  no  lands  in  the  said  county  and  march  in  chief  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  castle  jointly  with  the  said 
Margaret    of    the    gift    of    Walter     Pavely,    John    de    Guldeburgh, 


42  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1869.  Membrane  12 — cont. 

Thomas  de  Hungeiford  and  William  de  Wviidesore  clerk  made  witli 
the  king's  licence  to  tlicm  and  the  heirs  of  the  said  Bartholomew, 
and  that  the  same  is  lield  in  chief  by  knight  service  ;  and  tlie  king 
has  taken  the  fealty  of  the  said  Margaret. 

Memorandum  that  Thomas  de  Hungerford  took  her  fealty  by  writ. 

To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  W'iltesir.  Order  not  to  meddle 
further  with  the  manors  of  Heghtredbury,  Sterte  and  Coleme  taken 
into  the  king's  liand  by  the  death  of  Bartholomew  de  Burgherssh 
kniglit,  delivering  to  Margaret  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
the  said  Bartholomew  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in 
chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  manors  jointl}'  with  the 
said  Margaret  of  the  gift  of  Walter  Paveiy  knight,  John  de  Guldesburgh, 
Thomas  de  Hungerford  and  William  de  Wyndesore  clerk  made  with 
the  king's  licence  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  the  said  Bartholomew,  and 
that  the  same  are  held  in  chief  by  knight  service  ;  and  the  king  has 
taken  the  fealty  of  the  said  Margaret. 

Memorandum  {as  above). 

Aug.  2.         To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London  and  the  river 

Thames,  and  to  the  king's  searcher  in  the  port  and  river  aforesaid. 

Order,  upon  the  petition  of  William  de  Walworth  citizen  of  London, 
.  to  suffer  certain  his  servants  in  the  said  port  freely  without  let  to 
pass  toward  the  parts  of  Skone  in  Swethe  with  200/.  in  gold  or  silver 
to  buy  herring  there,  any  command  etc.  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that 
he  purposes  to  send  his  said  servants  thither  to  buy  herring,  and  bring 
the  same  to  the  city  of  London,  praying  licence  to  send  wdth  them 
2001.  for  that  pm'pose  ;  and  he  has  in  chancery  taken  upon  him  that 
he  will  cause  herring  to  that  value  to  be  brought  thence  to  the 
said  city. 

June  13.  To  the  electors  and  arrayers  of  aiciiers  in  Herefordshire.     Order 

Westminster,  not  to  meddle  by  colour  of  any  commission  to  them  heretofore 
addressed  in  choosing  and  arraying  any  archers  dwelhng  within  the 
city  of  Hereford  ;  as  lately  being  informed  that  a  number  of  citizens 
and  other  inhabitants  of  the  said  city  are  purposing  under  colour 
of  the  retainer  of  lords  to  pass  over  sea,  leaving  the  city  without 
sufficient  furmshing  in  case  evil  should  happen,  the  king  commanded 
the  bailiffs  and  constable  thereof  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  there 
made  forbidding  any  citizen  or  inhabitant  to  pass  out  of  the  city  by 
reason  of  any  the  king's  war,  by  colour  of  the  retainer  of  any  lord, 
or  for  any  like  cause,  or  to  absent  himself  from  the  said  city, 
ordering  the  said  inhabitants  at  their  peril  to  be  intendant  upon 
the  furnishing  and  defence  thereof. 

June  13.  To  the  executors  of  Roger  de  Mortuo  Mari  earl  of  March.  Order, 
Westminster,  of  the  issues  of  the  lands  of  William  baron  of  Greystok  tenant  in  chief, 
to  pay  to  Ralph  son  and  heir  of  the  said  William,  a  minor  in  the 
king's  wardship,  that  which  pertains  to  him  for  his  maintenance  since 
his  said  father's  death  and  henceforward  until  his  lawful  age  ;  as 
lately  the  king  granted  to  the  said  earl  the  wardship  of  all  the  lands 
of  the  said  William  which  are  in  the  Mug's  hand  by  his  death  and 
by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  to  hold  imtil  the  lawful  age  of  the 
said  heir  without  rendering  aught  to  the  king. 


43    EDWARD    11  J. 


43 


13C0,  Membrane  12 — cent. 

Juno   14.         To  John  de  (Jressyniihain  escla'ator  in  Essex.     Order  to  cause  John 

Westminster,  son  and  hi'ir  of  Wilhani  do  Enefeld  tenant  in  chief  to  have  seisin  of 

his  father's  lands  taken  into  tlie  king's  hand  by  his  doatli  ;    as  the  said 

Jolin  has  proved  liis  age  before  tiie  eseheator,  and  the  king  has  taken 

liis  homage  and  fealty. 

June  12.         To  the  treasurer  and  the  chamberlains.     Order  to  pay  of  the  treasury 

to  Nicholas  de  Hhirboine  and  Thomas  .Stillard,  \\  hom  the  king  has 

charged  to  repaii'  the  defects  of  Oloucester  castle  by  view  and  testimony 
of  the  prior  of  Lanthony,  50/.  in  aid  of  the  e.\i)enses  of  such  repair  or  to 
cause  them  to  have  an  assignment  where  they  may  best  be  contented 
thereof. 


Membrane  11. 

June  20.  To  the  treasurer  and  tlic  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order,  if 
Westminster,  assured  by  oath  of  William  Croke,  attorney  of  John  atte  Wyneyard 
and  Robert  Bulleville  executors  of  William  de  Ledene  late  sheriff  of 
Gloucester,  that  the  writs  and  indentures  hereinafter  mentioned  were 
stolen  from  him  the  said  attorney,  and  if  by  inspection  of  the  rolls 
and  memoranda  of  the  exchequer  thoy  shall  find  that  the  said 
executors  have  fully  rendered  the  said  sheriff's  account  of  the  issues 
of  that  county  for  the  first  half  of  the  29th  year  of  the  reign  when  he 
was  sheriff,  and  have  contented  the  king  of  all  that  is  thereby  due, 
to  proceed  to  allow  the  said  account  as  lawful  is,  notwithstanding  that 
by  reason  of  the  said  robbery  the  executors  or  their  said  attorney  have 
not  the  said  writs  and  indentures  to  deliver  to  the  treasurer  and 
barons  ;  as  the  said  executors  have  shewn  the  king  that  they  have 
rendered  account  as  aforesaid  and  have  contented  the  king  of  all  that 
is  thereby  due  to  him,  that  when  the  account  was  not  completed 
upon  the  rolls  of  the  exchequer  as  usual,  the  said  attorney  knowing  it  not 
took  with  him  from  the  exchequer  to  his  omti  parts  writs  of  privy 
seal  [one]  for  purveyance  of  a  set  number  of  lampreys  to  the  said 
sheriff  addressed,  [another]  to  Master  Peter  de  Bovyndon  to  whom 
the  same  were  delivered  to  the  king's  use,  and  who  took  of  the  sheriff 
12d.  a  day  while  busied  about  the  purveyance  thereof,  and  [others] 
for  payment  of  the  wages  of  falconers  and  porters  of  hawks  and  of  the 
puture  of  hawks,  and  indentures  concerning  the  delivery  of  the  said 
lampreys,  and  payment  of  the  said  wages  and  puture,  whereof  full 
mention  is  made  in  the  said  account,  that  those  writs  and  indentures 
were  with  his  own  goods  stolen  from  the  said  attorney  on  his  journey 
thither,  and  that  tlie  treasurer  and  barons  have  put  off  proceeding 
to  allow  the  said  account  for  that  the  said  attorney  then  had  not  the 
same  to  deliver  to  them,  although  they  were  produced  upon  the  said 
account,  and  although  he  has  requested  them  so  to  do,  Avherefore  the 
executors  [have  prayed]  for  remedy  ;  and  the  king  considers  it  hard 
that  tile  sheriff  or  his  executors  shoidd  be  charged  with  things  therein 
contained,  and  accounted  for  in  the  said  account,  in  default  of 
delivering  up  the  said  writs  and  indentures  which  were  stolen  from  their 
said  attorney. 

July  3.  To  the  prior  of  Spaldyng.     Order  at  his  peril  to  retain  and  safe  keep 

Westminster,  until  further  order  the  40/.  which  he  is  bound  to  pay  yearly  to  the 

abbot  of  St.   Nicholas  Angers,   an   alien   of    the    power    of    France, 

paying  him  nought  without  the    king's    special    command  ;    as  for 


44 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


13(59.  Membrane  11 — cont. 

particular  and  lawful  causes  with  the  assent  of  parliament  the  king  has 
taken  into  his  hand  all  priories  and  houses  of  alien  religious  of   the 
power  of  France,  together  with  the  lands,  goods,  rents  and  possessions 
to  the  same  belonging. 
[Foedera.] 
The  Uke  to  the  following  : 

The   prior   of   Newstede    by   Ancolme,   concerning    100*.   yearly 

payable  to  the  abbot  of  Longevillers. 
The  abbot  of  Thornton,  concerning  20/.  yearly  payable  for  two 

pensions  to  the  abbot  of  Auraale. 
The  abbot  of  llufford,  concerning  20/.  yearly  payable  to  the  abbot 
of  Clairvaux  for  the  farm  of  a  mediety  of  Roderham  church. 
[Ibid.] 

Oct.  29.  To  Robert  Russell  escheator  in  Worcestershire.  Order  not  to 
Westminster,  meddle  furtlier  with  the  manor  of  Mitton  and  certain  lands  in 
Kilmesham  taken  into  tiie  king's  hand  after  tlie  death  of  Agnes  who 
was  wife  of  Thomas  de  Bradestone,  delivering  to  Thomas  de  Bradestone, 
son  of  Robert  de  Bradestone,  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Agnes 
at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of 
fee  nor  in  service,  but  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  held  the  said 
manor  and  lands  for  life  with  remainder  to  the  said  Thomas  son  of 
.  Robert  and  to  the  heirs  of  his  body,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others 
than  the  king. 

July  23.         Order  to  the  slieriff  of  Bukingham  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  John  de  Aylesbury,  who  is  dead. 

Sept.  26.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Suthampton.  Order,  upon 
Westminster,  the  petition  of  Henry  Byle,  to  cause  all  goods  and  chattels  in  that 
town  of  the  men  of  Seint  Malliore  in  Brittany  to  be  arrested  and 
kept  under  arrest  in  name  of  a  distress  until  the  said  Hem-y  be  contented 
for  a  ship  of  his  called  the  '  Elianora  '  and  his  goods  and  merchandise 
therein,  or  until  further  order  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  the  said 
ship  laded  with  divers  merchandise  was  by  men  of  Seint  Malliore 
arrested  without  reasonable  cause,  and  is  there  under  arrest ;  and 
the  king  is  informed  that  the  said  ship  and  goods  are  arrested  without 
reasonable  cause. 

Nov.  20.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer,  and  to  the 
Westminster,  chamberlains.  Order  to  revoke  the  assignments  made  on  1  September 
last  to  David  de  Strabolgi  late  earl  of  Athole  of  180/.  to  be  taken 
of  the  customs  for  his  wages  and  the  wages  of  his  men  then  about 
to  sail  (it  was  said)  on  the  king's  service  over  sea,  namely  100/.  in  the 
port  of  St.  Botolph  and  the  residue  in  that  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull, 
causing  the  money  to  be  levied  to  the  king's  use  and  answer  to  be  made 
for  it  to  the  king  ;  as  the  said  David  or  his  men  did  not  sail  as  aforesaid. 


June  15. 


To  John  Knyvet  and  his  fellows  etc.  Order  by  writ  of  nisi  'prius 
to  send  the  inquisition  which  remains  to  be  taken  in  a  plea  for 
contempt  and  trespass  pending  before  them  between  the  king  and 
John  de  Acclom  of  Scardeburgh  to  be  taken  as  they  shall  see  fit 
according  to  the  statutes  and  the  law  and  custom  of  the  realm.        By  C. 


43  EDWARD  HI. 


45 


1369.  Membrane  11 — cont. 

June  15.  To  Thomas  de  Musgravc  cschoator  in  Yorksliiro.  Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  moddk>  further  witli  a  rent  of  Margaret 
de  Cailly  of  2(Xs.  in  Harewode,  delivering  to  her  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  lately  the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery 
the  cause  wherefore  the  said  rent  was  by  Jolm  de  Scotlierskelf  late 
escheator  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  he  returned  that  the  said 
John  delivered  to  him  by  indenture  20.s\  of  rent  in  Harewode, 
averring  that  he  took  the  same  into  the  king's  hand  for  that  he  found 
by  inquisition,  before  him  taken  of  his  office,  tliat  John  de  Insula  late 
lord  of  Harewode,  tenant  in  cliief  of  that  manor,  without  the  king's 
licence  gave  the  said  rent  thereof  issuing  to  the  said  Margaret  for  her 
life,  and  for  that  cause  it  is  yet  in  the  king's  hand  ;  and  the  king 
reckons  the  cause  insufficient. 

June  28.         To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  London.     Order  to  suffer 
Westminster.  Forest  de  Pierre  a  Lumbard  witliout  let,  after  payment  of  the  customs 
and  subsidies  thereupon  due,  to  pass  over  sea  whither  he  Avill  [taking] 
ten  bales  of  lambs'  fells. 

July  5.  To    Thomas    de    Musgrave    escheator    in    Cumberland.     Order    to 

Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  about  20  acres 
of  land  [in]  tlie  soil  of  Glassanby  within  the  park  of  Kirkoswald, 
delivering  to  Randolph  de  Dacre  lord  of  Gillesland  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator  of  his 
office,  that  the  said  Randolph  has  imparked  the  said  land  which  is 
held  in  chief,  and  the  escheator  has  for  that  cause  taken  the  same 
into  the  king's  hand,  as  he  has  by  word  of  mouth  acknowledged  in 
chancery  ;     and  the  king  reckons  the  cause  insufficient. 

July  14.         To  John  dc  Bisshopeston  escheator  in  Kent.     Order  to  cause  Thomas 

Westminster,  son  and  heir  of  James  Lapj^n  tenant  in  chief  to  have  seisin  of  the 

lands  of  his  said  father  taken  into  tlie  king's  hand  by  his  death  ;    as 

he  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator.  and  the  king  has  taken  his 

homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  10. 

July  12.  To  Thomas  Musgrave  escheator  in  Northumberland.  Order  to 
Westminster,  take  of  Eleanor  who  was  wife  of  Henry  Ta3deboys  tenant  in  chief  an 
oath  tliat  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign 
her  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
his  death,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in 
chancery. 


To  Nicholas  de  Styuecle  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire.  Like  order, 
mutatis  mutandis,  to  assign  dower  to  Alice  who  was  wife  of  John  de 
Mepirsale. 

Aug.  13.  To  the  collectors  of  the  petty  custom  in  the  port  of  London.  Order 
Westminster,  to  suffer  Richard  Scut  merchant  or  his  servants,  after  pa^'ment  of 
the  customs  thereupon  due,  without  let  to  lade  and  take  to  Flanders 
four  bales  of  fells  of  lambs,  conies,  hares  and  foxes,  any  command  of 
the  king  to  them  addressed  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding  ;  as  the 
king  has  given  licence  to  the  said  Richard  so  to  do  to  make  his 
advantage  thereof. 


46 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


Memhrnne  10 — cont. 

June  28.         To  tlio  collector.s  of  customs  in  the  port  of  London.     Order  to  suffer 
Westminster.  Forest  de  Pierre,  a  Lumbard,  witliout  let,  aftc^r  payment  of  the  customs 
and  sub.sidies  thereupon  due,  to  pas.s  over  sea  whither  lie  will,  [taking] 
ten  bales  of  lambs'  fells. 

Oct.  16.         To  the  sheriff  of  York.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  William  de  Oairgrave  ;     as  he  is  abiding  over  sea  in  the 
company  of  John  duke  of  Lancastre. 

July  9.  To  Nicholas  do  Styuecle,  escheator  in  Huntingdonshire.     Order  to 

Westminster,  take  the  fealty  of  Joan  late  the  wife  of  Edward  de  Lovetot,  and  not; 
to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage,  land  and  rent  in  Southo, 
Beuton  and  Overton  Waterville  etc.  {as  above,  p.  40). 

June  15.  To  Thomas  de  Musgrave  escheator  in  Northumberland.  Order 
Westminster,  to  cau.se  David  de  Strabolgi  now  earl  of  Atliole  to  have  seisin  of  two 
thirds  of  the  manor  of  Ponthelond,  and  of  all  other  the  lands  which 
Kathcrin<^  who  was  wife  of  David  de  Stiabolgi  late  earl  of  Athole  held 
of  his  heritage,  and  which  are  taken  into  the  king's  liand  by  her 
death,  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Katherine  at  her 
death  hold  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee, 
})ut  hold  in  dower  of  the  heritage  of  the  now  earl,  son  and  lieir  of  the 
said  late  earl,  two  thirds  of  the  said  manor,  six  husband  lands,  three 
cottages,  5.S.  4.k/.  of  rent  in  Little  Eland  as  a  hamlet  thereof,  and 
300  acres  of  land,  8i  acres  of  meadow,  eight  husband  lands  and 
2s  Shi.  of  rent  at  Calverdon  Valence,  with  reversion  to  the  now  earl 
who  is  of  full  age,  and  that  the  premises  are  held  in  chief  as  parcel  of 
the  barony  of  Mitford  ;  and  on  8  May  in  the  29th  year  of  his  reign 
the  king  took  the  homage  of  the  now  earl,  and  commanded  livery 
to  be  given  him  of  all  his  father's  lands. 

July  2.  To  John  de  Bisshopeston  escheator  in  Kent.     Order  not  to  meddle 

Westminster,  further  with  the  moiety  of  a  windmill  and  of  5s.,  54  quarters  of  palm 
barley  and  two  hens  of  rent  in  Upchurche,  Renham,  Hertclepe, 
Halghstede  and  Stokebury  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  Juliana  countess  of  Huntyngdon,  delivering  to  Thomas  de 
Gillyngham,  Richard  de  Gillyngham,  Nicholas  Edoun,  James  Palmere 
and  John  Savaye  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  countess  at  her 
death  held  the  premises  in  dower  after  the  death  of  William  de 
Clynton  earl  of  Huntyngdon  sometime  her  husband  with  reversion  to 
the  said  Thomas,  Richard,  Nicholas,  James  and  John,  by  virtue  of  a 
feoffment  made  by  the  said  earl  to  Thomas  de  Gillyngham  whose  estate 
they  have,  she  having  recovered  the  same  in  the  king's  court  against 
them,  and  that  the  premises  are  not  held  of  the  king. 

July  9.  To   John   de   Cressyngham   escheator   in   Suffolk.     Order    not    to 

Westminster,  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of  Carleton,  Mydelton,  Blaxhale,  Assh, 
Clopton,  Swynlond,  Cokafeld,  ^^''ytnesham,  Whelnetham  and 
Fenhalle  in  Onehows  in  the  said  county  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  death  of  Bartholomew  de  Burgherssh,  delivering  up  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  divers  inquisitions,  taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Bartholomew  at  his  death  held  no  lands 
in  those  counties  [sic)  in  chief  nor  of  any  other  in  his  demesne  as  of 


43    EDWARD    III. 


47 


1309.  Membrane  10 — cont. 

fee,  but  lield  the  said  manors  for  life  by  the  eourtesy  of  England  after 
tlie  death  of  Cicely  his  wife  of  her  heritage,  with  reversion  to  Elizabeth 
wife  of  Edward  le  Spenser  daughter  and  heir  of  the  said  Bartholomew 
and  Cicely,  who  is  of  full  age,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others 
than  the  king. 

July  9.  To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  \Viltesir.     Order  not  to  meddle 

Westminster,  further  with  the  manors  of  la  Lee  and  la  Gore  by  Lavynton  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Michael  de 
Ponyngcs,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  tbe  escheator,  that  the  said  Joan 
at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as 
of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  held  the  said  manors  by  virtue  of  a  gift  made 
by  fine  levied  in  the  kiag's  court  by  John  de  Molyng  knight  to  John 
his  son  and  tlie  said  Joan  then  wife  of  John  the  son  and  to  the  heirs 
of  their  bodies,  with  remander  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  William 
de  Molyng  brother  of  John  the  .son  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body, 
that  the  said  John  the  son  and  Joan  died  without  an  heir  of  their 
bodies,  and  that  the  said  manors  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

July  10.  To  William  Bernard,  executor  of  Gilbert  Bernard  one  of  the 
Westminster,  guardians  of  the  peace  in  Cambridgeshire  and  of  tlie  justices  of  oyer 
and  terminer  therein,  and  to  Jolin  de  ^^'etheresfeld  clerk  of  the  said 
justices.  Order,  under  pain  of  10(i/.,  to  send  under  their  seals  into 
chancery  without  delay  the  estreats  of  all  fines,  amercements  and 
issues  of  forfeits  made  and  adjudged  before  the  said  justices  all  the 
time  the  said  Gilbert  was  with  other  lieges  appointed  so  to  act, 
which  are  yet  in  their  custody  it  is  said,  also  this  writ. 

Nov.  8.  To  William  .\unscll  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.     Order  to  cause 

Westminster.  Gilbert  Giffard  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  sister  and  heir  of  Richard 
Daubeneye  tenant  in  chief,  to  have  seisin  of  the  lands  of  her  said 
brother  taken  into  the  king's  liand  by  his  death  ;  as  the  said  Elizabeth 
has  proved  her  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  respited 
the  fealtv  of  the  said  Gilbert  until  the  Purification  next. 


Dec.  19.  To  the  bailiff  of  the  honour  of  Reylcgh  co.  Essex.  Order  not  to 
Westminster,  distrain  William  son  and  heir  of  William  Cosyn  to  do  homage  to  the 
king  for  tlie  manor  and  advowson  of  Great  Sutton,  held  by  knight 
service  of  the  king  as  of  the  said  honour  which  is  now  in  the  king's 
hand,  releasing  any  distress  made  ;  as  he  has  done  homage  and 
fealty.  "  By  p.s.  [28140.] 

Membrane  9. 

Oct.  6.  To  Richard  de  Wydeville  escheator  in    Norhamptonshire.      Order 

Sheen.  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Norton  Davy  with  the 
hundred  thereto  pertaining  and  other  appurtenances  (the  advowson 
excepted),  the  manor  of  Estneston  with  the  advowson  of  Sewardesle 
priory,  a  messuage  and  one  carucate  of  land  in  Wittilbury  and 
Silveston,  a  piece  of  meadow  called  Huberdesmede  in  Toucestre,  and 
the  manor  of  Heymondcole,  taken  into  the  king's  liand  by  the  death 
of  Henry  Grene  knight,  delivering  to  the  said  Henry  (sic)  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  leained  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  Mith  his  licence  the 
said  Henry  at  his  death  held  the  preniises  jointly  with   Thomas   his 


48 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


Oct.  6. 

Sheon. 


1369.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

son  (yet  living)  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  Henry's  body,  that  the  manor 
of  Norton  Davy  is  held  in  chief  by  knight  service,  and  the  said 
hundred  likewise  by  the  service  of  rendering  yearly  at  the  exchequer 
by  the  hands  of  the  slieriff  54.9.,  which  is  called  blaach  farm,  and 
the   other  manors,  advowson  etc.  of  others  than  the  king. 

To  the  same.  Order  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  and 
advowson  of  Lufwyk,  nine  messuages,  one  toft,  four  virgates  of  land 
and  12  acres  of  meadow  in  Haryngworth,  a  ninth  part  of  the  manor 
of  Great  Hoghton,  four  messuages,  one  carucate  and  3^  virgates  of 
land,  2  acres  1|  rood  of  meadow  and  C)S.  Sd.  of  rent  in  the  said  town, 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Henry  de  Grene  knight, 
delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Henry  Grene  gave 
the  said  manor  and  advowson  of  Lufwyk  and  tlie  premises  in 
Haryngworth,  witli  other  lands  in  Bedfordshire  and  Bukinghamshire, 
to  Richard  de  Bollesore  and  William  Thirnyng,  and  the  said  ninth  part 
and  premises  in  Great  Hoghton,  with  other  lands  in  the  same  counties, 
to  Nicholas  de  Thenford,  Thomas  Pavely  and  William  de  Asshele 
to  hold  during  his  life,  with  remainder  after  his  death  to  Henry  his 
son  (yet  living)  and  to  the  heirs  of  the  body  of  Henry  the  son,  and 
that  all  the  premises  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

Oct.  10.  To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  the  county  of  Suthampton.  Order 
Westminster,  to  take  of  John  de  Brambeshute  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  sister  and 
heir  of  John  de  Lisle  of  Gatescombe  tenant  in  chief,  security  for 
payment  of  their  relief  at  the  exchequer,  and  to  cause  them  to  have 
seisin  of  her  said  brother's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his 
death  ;  as  the  king  has  taken  the  homage  and  fealty  of  John  de 
Brambeshute  by  reason  of  issue  between  him  and  the  said  Elizabeth 
begotten. 

Vacated  because  upon  the  Fine  Roll. 


Sept.  23. 

Sheen. 


Sept.  23. 

Sheen. 


To  Richard  de  Wydeville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.  Order 
to  deliver  to  Henry  son  of  Henry  Grene  knight  the  manor  of  Drayton 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  said  father's  death,  together  with 
the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  without  his 
licence  the  said  Henrj'  held  the  said  manor  to  him  and  his  said  son  and 
to  the  heirs  of  the  body  of  his  said  son,  and  that  the  same  is  held  in 
chief  by  knight  service  ;  and  for  that  Henry  the  son  is  abiding  over 
sea  in  the  king's  service  upon  the  furtherance  of  his  war  there,  the 
king  of  his  favour  has  respited  his  homage  and  fealty. 

To  Nicholas  de  Styuecle  escheator  in  Bedfordshire  and  Buking- 
hamshire.  Order  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Chalton 
CO.  Bedford,  the  advowson  of  Chalton  chapel  {or  church),  and  the  manors 
of  Wolston  and  Wavyndon  co.  Bukinghani  the  advowson  of  Wavyndon 
excepted,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Henry  Grene 
knight,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  divers  inquisitions,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said 
Henry  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  those  counties  in  chief  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee,  but  long  before  his  death  gave  the  said  manor  and 
advowson  of  Chalton  and  the  said  manors  of  Wolston  and  Wavyndon 
(the  advowson  of   Wavjmdon    excepted)    to    William   Thirnyng   and 


43  EDWARD  III. 


49 


1369.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

Richard  de  Bollesore  clerk  to  hold  during  his  life,  with  romaindor  after 
his  deatli  to  Heniy  his  son  (yet  living)  and  to  the  lieirs  of  his  said  son's 
body,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

Nov.  6.  To  William  Auncell  escheator  in  Herefordshire  and  the  march  of 

Weatminster.  Wales  adjacent.  Order  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  lands  which 
were  of  William  Malyfaunt  tenant  by  knight  service  of  tiie  heir  of 
Lawrence  de  Hastynges  earl  of  Fembrocli  tenant  in  cliief,  and  were 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of 
John  son  and  heir  of  the  said  earl,  being  yet  in  his  hand  by  reason  of 
the  nonage  of  William  son  and  heir  of  the  said  William  Malifaunt  ; 
as  William  the  son  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  on 
12  September  in  the  42nd  year  of  the  reign  the  age  of  the  said  John 
was  proved,  and  the  king  took  his  homage  and  fealty,  and  commanded 
livery  to  be  given  hiui  of  the  said  earl's  lands. 

Nov.  8.  To  the  same.     Order  to  take  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Philip  ap  Rees 

Westminster,  knight  tenant  in  chief  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the 
king's  licence,  and  in  presence  of  the  heirs  and  parceners  of  that 
heritage,  if  upon  warning  they  will  attend,  to  assign  and  deliver  her 
dower  of  the  lands  of  her  said  husband  taken  into  the  king's  iiand 
by  his  death,  sending  the  assignment  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

Nov.  8.  To  Nicholas  de  Styuecle  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire.     Order  not 

Westminster,  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  called  le  Moignes  in  Weston  Colville 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  Buntyng,  delivering 
to  Agnes  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John  at  his  death 
held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  by 
fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  held  the  said  manor  jointly  with  the 
said  Agnes,  and  that  the  same  is  not  held  of  the  king. 

Oct.  10.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Oxford  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  John  Wyndesore,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Membrane  8. 

Sept.  11.  To  Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Order  not  to 
Leeds.  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Wiggetoft  in  Holand  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Richard  de  Wilughby  knight,  delivering 
to  Maud  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator.  that  the  said  Richard 
at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as 
of  fee,  but  held  the  said  manor  jointly  with  the  said  Maud  of  the  gift 
of  Richard  de  Wilughby  the  elder,  Nicholas  de  Whadden  chaplain 
and  Hugh  Martel  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  the 
same  is  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

To  Robert  de  Twyford  escheator  in  Notynghamshire  and  Derby- 
shire. Order  not  to  meddle  further  with  tiie  manor  of  Cossale  co. 
Notyngham,  the  manor  of  Brakunthweit  and  certain  lands  in  Alwaston 
CO.  Derby,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Richard  de 
Wilughby  knight,  delivermg  to  INlaud  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  divers  inquisitions,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  the  said  Richard  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  those  counties  in 
his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  jointly  with  the  said  Maud  the  said 

CR  4 


50  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1309.  Membrane  8 — cont. 

manor  of  f'ossale  and  lands  in  Alwaston  of  the  t^ift  of  Richard  de 
W'ilugliby  knij^ht  the  elder,  Nicholas  de  W'hadden  chaplain  and  Huf^h 
Martel,  and  the  said  manor  of  Brakunthweit  of  the  trift  of  Richard  de 
Wihighby  knij^ht  the  elder  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and 
that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

Sept.  20.  To  tlie  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Suthampton.  Order  to 
Westminster,  can.se  the  goods  and  merchandise  hereinafter  mentioned  to  be 
without  delay  dearrested  and  delivered  to  John  Guaygnet,  William 
BeauUabaille  and  certain  other  their  fellows,  merchants  of  the  duchy 
of  Brittany,  sufYeiing  them  therewith  to  pass  freely  without  let  whither 
they  will,  any  command  of  the  king  to  the  said  ma\'or  and  bailiffs 
addressed  to  the  contiary  notwithstanding  ;  as  lately  by  letters 
patent  to  endiue  for  one  year  the  king  took  the  said  merchants  under 
his  protection  and  safe  conduct,  coming  by  land  and  by  sea  to  the 
realm  and  elsewhere  within  his  dominion  and  power  to  traffic  and 
make  their  advantage  withal,  [bringing]  their  merchandise  and  goods 
whatsoever,  there  abiding  and  thence  returning  to  their  own  again  ; 
and  now  on  behalf  of  the  .said  John  and  William  the  king  has  learned 
that  at  the  suit  of  Henry  Byle  merchant  of  Swanwyche,  by  colour  of 
a  ship  of  his  taken  by  men  of  Brittany  and  plundered  with  goods 
therein  to  the  value  of  00/..  certain  goods  of  the  .said  merchants  and 
their  fellows  are  at  the  town  of  Suthampton  by  the  mayor  and 
bailiffs  arrested  and  detained,  wherefore  they  have  prayed  for 
restitution  ;  and  the  said  John  and  William,  for  themselves  and  their 
fellows,  have  in  chancery  taken  upon  them  to  make  restitution  and 
content  the  said  Henry  before  the  Purification  next  for  his  said  ship 
and  goods  or  00/.  for  the  same,  and  John  Wittegode  of  Suthampton 
has  mainperned  for  them  that  two  ships  of  the  said  John  Guaygnet 
and  William,  one  at  Sandewic  in  the  custody  of  William  Barber  the 
other  at  Dovorre  in  the  custody  of  Alexander  Coke,  .shall  remain 
under  arrest  imtil  the  said  Henry  shall  be  contented  as  aforesaid. 

Sept.  27.  To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  Oxfordshire.  Order  not  to 
Westminster,  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Bourton  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  death  of  Agnes  who  was  wife  of  John  Mauduyt,  delivering  up 
any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Agnes  at  her  death  held  no 
lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  by  fine 
levied  in  the  king's  court  held  the  said  manor  with  reversion  after 
her  death  to  Joan,  daughter  and  heir  of  John  son  of  Alice  Basset, 
whom  Roger  Door  has  taken  to  wife,  being  of  full  age,  and  that  the 
same  is  held  of  others  than  the  king. 


o" 


Oct.  5.  To  the  sheriff  of  Berkshire  for  the  time  being.     Writ  de  intendendo, 

Westminster,  directing  him  of  the  issues  of  that  county  to  pay  to  John  Edward  the 
arrears  of  0^/.  a  day  from  23  November  in  the  35th  year  of  the  reign, 
and  to  pay  him  that  sum  henceforward  according  to  the  king's  letters 
patent,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  on  the  date  above  mentioned  the 
king  of  his  favour  granted  the  said  John  for  his  good  service  Orf.  a  day 
for  life  or  until  the  king  should  take  other  order  for  his  estate,  to  be 
taken  of  the  issues  of  the  said  county  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Oct.  4.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Kent  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  Thomas  Perot,  who  is  insufficiently  quaUfied. 


43  EDWARD    III. 


51 


1369.  Membrane  8 — cont. 

Nov.  3.  Order  to  t)ie  HherilT  of  [Somerset]  to  cause  a  verderer  in  Selewode 

Westminster,  forest  to  be  elected  instead  of  John  Mauger,  who  is  dead. 

Dec.  8.  To  the  mayor  and  baihffs  of  the  city  of  New  Sarum.     Order  at 

Westminster,  their  peril,  as  tliey  care  for  tlie  safety  of  the  king  and  the  honour  and 
estate  of  the  realm,  to  cause  \\'illiam  Gys  and  other  men  of  the  city 
wha-tsoever  who  will  sail  with  ships  to  Gascony  to  get  wines  there, 
or  to  overcome  and  destroy  the  king's  enemies  at  sea'  to  the  extent  of 
their  power,  to  have  seamen  and  other  men  sufficient  for  the 
equipment,  furnishing  and  defence  of  the  said  ships,  and  victuals  for 
their  maintenance  for  payment  of  their  own  money  according  to 
maritime  law.  By  K.  and  C. 

Et  erat  patens. 
[Foedera.] 
The  hke  to  the  following  : 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Plymmuth  for  Thomas  Fisshacre  of 

Plymmuth,  John  Sampson,  Robert  Pilche  etc. 
The   mayor  and  bailiffs  of  T)ertmuth  for  John  Asshelden  [and] 

WiUiam  Lambey  of  Dertmuth. 
The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Suthampton  for  John  Witegote,  William 
Gys  etc. 
[Ibid.] 

Dec.  10.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  York  to  cause  a  verderer  in  the  forest  of 
Westminster.  Pikeryng  to  be  elected  instead  of  William  Playce,  who  is  dead. 

Nov.  6.  To  the  sheriff  of  Bedford.     Order    to  repair  in  person  to  a  pasture 

Westminster,  in  Henlowe,  and  to  make  inquisition  touching  a  second  overcharge 
thereof,  and  if  he  shall  thereby  find  that  Robert  vicvar  of  Henlowe 
has  after  the  first  measurement  a  second  time  unlawfully  overcharged 
the  same,  to  answer  at  the  exchequer  concerning  his  cattle  thereupon 
put  after  the  said  measurement  over  and  above  the  number  due  or 
concerning  the  price  thereof,  removing  such  overcharge  ;  as  John 
Harewold  of  HenloAve  has  shewn  the  king  that  he  lately  brought  a 
writ  for  measurement  of  the  common  of  his  said  pasture  by  the  said 
vicar  overcharged,  that  by  the  king's  order  the  sheriff  measured  the 
same  as  the  custom  is  in  the  realm,  and  that  after  that  measurement 
the  said  vicar  has  a  second  time  unlawfully  overcharged  the  said  pasture 
contrary  to  the  statute  ;  and  the  king  would  succour  the  said  John 
as  he  is  bound  to  do. 


Membrane  7. 

Nov.  7.  To  Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.     Order  to  take  of 

Westminster.  Katherine  who  was  the  wife  of  Peter  Bavent  tenant  in  chief  an  oath 
that  she  will  not  marry  without  tlie  king's  licence,  and  to  assign  her 
dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
his  death,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in 
chancery. 

Nov.  6.  To  William  Auncel  escheator  in  Herefordshire  and  the  march  of 

Westminster.  Wales   adjacent.      Order    not   to   meddle   further   with   the   lands  of 

William  Malefaunt  etc.  [as  above,  p.  49 ;     but  for  Johannis   filii  et 

heredis  predicti  nuper  comitis  is  here  read  erroneously  Johannis  filii 

Johannis  predicti  nuper  comitis). 


52 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1369.  Membrane  7 — cont. 

Nov.  14.         To  the  bailiils  of  the  king's  manor  of  Overlond  for  the  time  being. 

Weetminster.  Order  of  the  issues  of  the  said  manor  to  pay  to  William  de  U'avere  the 

arrears  of  100.s.  a  year,  and  henceforward  to  pay  him  that  sum  every 

year  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent,  taking  his  acquittance  ; 

as  Juliana  countess  of  Huntyngdon  granted  the  said  William  that  sum 

for  his  good  service  to  her,  to  be  taken  every  year  during  her  life  at 

Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  the  said  manor,  which  she 

held  for  life  with  reversion  to  the  king ;  and  on  2  May  in  the  37th  year 

of  his  reign,  at  the  request  of  the  said  countess,  the  king  willing  to 

shew  favour  to  the  said  William  by  his  letters  patent  confirmed  her 

said  gift,  granting  that  in  case  the  said  countess  should   die   in    his 

life  time,  he  should  have  the  said  sum  for  his  life  without  let  of  the 

king  or  his  heirs,  their  bailiffs  or  ministers  whatsoever. 

Et  erai  patens. 

Oct.  28.  To   John    de   Evesham   escheator   in  Wiltesir  and   the  county  of 

Westminster.  Suthampton.  Order  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  and 
advowson  of  Lokynton  co.  Wiltesir  and  the  third  part  of  the  manor 
of  Everslee  co.  Suthampton  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  Agnes  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  de  Bradestone,  delivering  up  any 
issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  divers  inquisitions, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Agnes  at  her  death  held  no  lands 
in  those  counties  in  chief  nor  of  any  other  in  lier  demesne  as  of  fee  nor 
in  service,  but  held  the  premises  for  her  life  by  gift  of  Robert  Coigne 
parson  of  Somerford  Mauduyt  and  John  de  Wynchestre  warden  of 
the  chantry  of  \^'yntevbouine  by  Bristol,  with  reversion  to  Thomas 
de  Bradestone  (yet  living)  son  of  Robert  de  Bradestone  and  to  the 
heirs  of  his  body,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

Nov.  6.  To  the  bailiffs  of  Karliol  for  the  time  being.   Order  of  the  farm  or  rent 

Westminster,  of  that  city  to  pay  to  Joan  ^ife  of  Guy  Ferre  deceased  during  her  life 
52  marks  every  year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  poitions 
according  to  the  king's  letters  patent,  taking  her  acquittance  ;  as 
in  recompense  for  lands  in  Scotland  of  her  heritage  held  by  the  said 
Guy  and  Joan  and  by  them  lost  for  that  they  adhered  to  the  king, 
the  king  of  his  favour  granted  the  said  Joan  that  sum  every  year  during 
her    life    to    be    taken    as    aforesaid.  By   bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Et  erat  patens. 

Nov.  20.  To  Robert  de  Assheton  admiral  of  the  fleet  towards  the  west,  or  to 
Westminster,  his  lieutenant  in  Cornwall.  Order  to  repair  in  person  to  the  place 
where  a  certain  crayer  of  the  king's  enemies  of  France  taken  by  John 
Spencer  and  Richard  Crych  of  Brigewauter  merchants  is  arrested, 
to  cause  as  well  the  said  John  and  Richard  as  Brasgonus  de  Penryn, 
John  Joce  of  Penryn,  Pennenus  de  Penryn,  Chymbwellus  de  Penryn, 
John  Symond  of  Penryn, Geoffrey  Vytte  of  Penrjoi  and  Thomas  Haverner 
of  Fowy  to  come  before  him,  and  other  true  men  of  the  neighbouring 
parts  by  whom  information  may  be  had  concerning  the  cause  of  that 
arrest,  to  make  inquisition  concernmg  the  said  cause  by  them  and 
others  as  he  shall  see  fit,  and  if  he  shall  thereby  find  no  reasonable 
cause  wherefore  the  said  merchants,  the  crayer,  and  the  seamen  and 
corn  therein  ought-  to  be  arrested,  to  dearrest  the  same  suffering  them 
to  pass  freely,  and  if  he  shall  find  the  cause  of  the  said  arrest  to  be  good 
and  sufficient,  to  cause  the  said  merchants,  the  crayer,  seamen  and 
corn  aforesaid  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  until  further  order,  certifying 


i'A    EDWAKI)    III. 


63 


13()9.  Membrane  7 — cont. 

in  chanocrv  under  .sciil  the  cause  of  anest,  the  value  of  the  said  crayer 
and  corn,  the  names  and  number  of  the  said  seamen,  and  all  his  action 
in  the  nuitter,  and  sentling  again  this  writ  ;  as  the  said  merchants 
have  shewn  the  king  that  they  lately  laded  in  the  port  of  la 
Baye  a  ship  callc^d  '  la  Faitroun  '  of  Plummuth  with  divers  merchandise, 
tliat  at  sea  on  their  voyage  towards  Kngland  tliey  took  b}'  action  of 
war  the  said  crayer  laded  with  140  (piarters  of  wheat  for  maintenance 
and  aid  of  the  king's  enemies  of  France,  and  l)rought  the  said  crayer 
and  wheat  to  the  port  of  Falemutli  in  Cornwall  with  the  seamen 
therein,  and  that  the  said  Brasgonus  and  the  others  above  named 
•  and  certain  other  their  accomplices  have  arrested  and  are  un- 
lawfully detaining  the  said  merchants  and  the  crayer  with  the  corn 
and  seamen  therein,  whereupon  they  have  prayed  for  remedy.     By  C. 

Nov.  28.  To  Nicholas  de  Tamworth  admiral  of  the  fleet  towards  the  west 
Wefltminster.  (sic).  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Simon  Pichermaker  of  Cornwall, 
whose  petition  the  king  is  sending  enclosed  in  these  presents,  to  view 
and  examine  the  same,  to  call  before  him  as  well  the  said  Simon  as 
other  true  men  having  knowledge  of  maritime  law  and  others  who 
should  be  cited,  to  hear  the  said  Simon's  plaint,  and  to  do  further 
what  ought  to  be  done  in  that  behalf  according  to  maritime  law  ;  as 
on  behalf  of  the  said  Simon  it  is  shewn  the  king  that  at  Nermoustre  in 
Poytou  he  laded  a  certain  ship  of  his  with  divers  goods  and  mer- 
chandise and  brought  it  to  the  town  of  la  Rye,  and  that  Robert  de 
Asshton  admiral  of  the  fleet  towards  the  west  has  arrested  and  is 
unlawfully  detaining  the  said  ship  under  arrest,  pretending  that  the 
same  is  forfeit  to  the  king  with  the  goods  and  merchandise  therein, 
wherefore  he  has  prayed  for  remedy.  Proviso  that  if  the  ship  shall 
be  found  forfeit  with  the  goods  therein,  the  said  admiral  shall  cause 
the  same  to  be  safe  kept  under  arrest  until  further  order  without 
removal  of  aught,  certifying  in  chancery  the  price  of  the  said  ship  and 
goods,  and  all  liis  action  in  the  matter.  By  0. 

To  Richard  de  WydeviUe  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.  Order 
not  to  distrain  Thomas  Grene,  son  and  heir  of  Henry  Grene  knight 
tenant  in  chief,  to  do  his  homage  and  fealty,  releasing  any  distress 
made  ;  as  the  said  Thomas  has  done  homage  and  fealty  to  the  king. 

To  the  same.  Like  order  not  to  distrain  Henry  Grene,  son  of 
Henry  Grene  knight ;  as  he  has  done  homage  and  fealty  to  the  king 
for  the  manor  of  Drayton,  held  for  life  by  his  said  father  with 
remainder  to  the  said  Henry  the  son  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  his 
body  by  virtue  of  a  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his  licence. 

Membrane  6. 

Oct.  29.  To   William   Auncel   escheator  in   Gloucestershire.      Order  not  to 

Westminster,  meddle  further  with  8  acres  of  meadow  in  Tidrynton,  2  acres  of 
meadow  in  Ichenton,  a  messuage,  four  virgates  of  land,  10  acres  of 
meadow  and  30s.  of  rent  in  Horton,  26s.  Sd.  of  rent  in  Erlyngham 
and  a  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Erlyngham,  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  Agnes  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  de  Bradestone, 
delivering  to  the  said  Joan  {sic)  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Agnes 
at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as 
of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  held  the  premises  for  life  of  the  gift  of.  Robert 


Dec.  2. 
Westminster. 


64  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


18()9.  Membrane  6 — cont. 

Coi^ny  late  paiHon  of  Soim-ifoKl  Mauduyt  and  John  de  Wynchestre 
tliaplain,  with  iwer.sion  to  Thomas  ile  Bradestone  (yet  livint^)  son  of 
Robert  de  Bradestone  and  to  the  heirs  of  the  body  of  tlie  said  Thomas 
son  of  Robert,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

Nov.  20.  To  Richard  de  Sutton  eschoator  in  Lancashire.  Order  not  to  meddle 
Wostrainster.  further  with  ()(►  acres  of  land  and  43.s.  4(1.  of  rent  in  Whityngton  taken 
into  the  kiny's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  de  Dalton  knight,  delivering 
to  the  said  Alice  {.sic)  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John  at  his  death  held 
no  lands  in  that  county  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  held 
the  premises  jointly  with  KUen  late  his  wife  (yet  living)  of  the  gift 
of  William  de  Horneby  parson  of  St.  Michael  upon  Wyre  and  Richard 
de  StaynoU  chaplain  for  the  lives  of  the  said  John  and  Ellen  with 
remainder  to  John  son  of  the  said  John  and  to  the  heirs  of  his  body, 
and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

Nov.  20.  To  the  same.  Order  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of 
Westminster.  Bispham  in  Leylondshire,  40  acres  of  land  in  Dalton,  and  a  messuage 
and  garden  and  40  acres  of  land  in  Hale,  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  death  of  John  de  Dalton  knight,  delivering  to  John  his  son  any 
issues  thereof  taken ;  as  the  king  lias  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by 
the  escheator,  that  John  the  father  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that 
county  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  long  before  his 
death  gave  the  premises  by  charter  to  William  de  Horneby  parson  of 
St.  Michael  upon  Wyre  and  Richard  de  Staynoll  chaplain  and  to  their 
heirs,  who  were  thereof  peaceably  seised  by  vu-tue  of  that  gift,  that 
they  by  their  charter  gave  the  premises  to  the  said  John  de  Dalton 
for  life  with  remainder  to  the  said  John  the  son  and  to  the  heirs  male 
of  his  body,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

Nov.  29.  To  the  farmer  or  keeper  of  the  manor  of  Woteryngbury.  Order 
Westminster,  of  his  farm  to  pay  to  the  prior  of  Ledes  5s.  4td.  a  year  granted  by 
charters  of  Bartholomew  son  of  Gilbert  de  Woteryngbury  sometime 
lord  of  the  said  manor  to  the  predecessors  of  the  said  prior,  namely 
for  the  time  he  has  been  farmer  or  keeper  thereof  and  henceforward 
so  long  as  he  shall  be  farmer  or  keeper,  taking  the  said  prior's 
acquittance. 

Nov.  26.  Commission  to  Christiana  who  was  wife  of  John  fitz  Eustace  tenant 
Westminster,  in  chief  of  the  Avardship  of  tAVO  thirds  of  the  manor  of  Ouseden  co. 
Suffolk,  two  thirds  of  a  piece  of  ground  Avith  a  garden,  184  acres  of 
land  and  8  acres  of  meadow  in  Casewyk  co.  Lincoln,  and  tAvo  thirds  of 
a  messuage,  134  acres  of  land,  0  acres  of  meadow,  20  acres  of  wood  and 
60s.  of  rent  in  Shenle  co.  Bukingham,  taken  into  tlie  king's  hand  by 
her  said  husband's  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  to 
hold  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  and  other  things  to  that  AAardship 
belonging  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  heir,  rendering  at  the 
exchecjuer  100s.  a  year  at  Easter  and  INIichaelmas  by  even  portions, 
performing  all  ser\^ices  to  the  king  and  others  and  bearing  all  charges 
thereupon  so  long  as  she  shall  hold  the  same  ;  and  if  the  heir  shall  die 
before  his  laAvful  age,  his  heir  being  Avithin  age,  she  shall  have  the  said 
Avardship  until  the  laAvful  age  of  that  heir,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir  until 
some  heir  shall  come  to  his  laAvful  age.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Vacated  because  upon  the  Fine  Roll. 


43  EDWAliD  III. 


55 


I860.  Membrane  G — cont. 

Nov.  15.  To  John  de  Bisshopeston  cschcator  ill  Surrey.  Order,  upon  petition 
Westminster,  of  the  prioress  of  the  house  of  the  order  of  preachers  by  the  king  new 
founded  at  Dcrtoford,  not  to  iiH>d(lle  further  with  a  me.ssuage,  garden 
and  dovecot  and  10  acres  of  laud  in  llacclicshani,  42  acres  of  land  in 
Oubrayfeld,  7  acres  of  land  and  5  acres  of  wood  with  a  croft  called 
Absolet  croft,  a  cottage  and  one  acre  of  meadow  sometime  of  William 
Sheruesbiry,  a  messuage  and  garden  and  2  acres  of  land  adjoining 
in  a  croft  called  Bromescroft,  .'J  acres  of  land  in  ".  the  Lorde.scroft,' 
the  moiety  of  one  acre  of  land  in  Bridescroft,  and  a  cottage  and 
garden  sometime  of  Wilham  Clillis,  all  held  by  knight  service  and  divers 
other  services  of  the  said  prioress  as  of  lier  manor  of  Hachesham 
whereof  she  is  now  lady,  and  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  John  son  of  John  Adam,  dcHvciin^  to  her  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  on  6  April  in  the  31st  year  of  his  leign  the  king  by  letters  patent 
gave  to  John  de  W'ynwyk,  William  Thorp  and  William  de  Peek  now 
deceased  the  manor  of  Hacchesham,  which  he  lately  had  of  tlie  gift 
of  Roger  de  Bavent  knight,  to  hold  for  tlie  life  of  every  of  them  with 
the  knights'  fees,  advowsons  etc.  thereto  belonging  of  the  king  and 
his  heirs  by  the  services  thereof  due  and  accustomed,  with  remainder 
to  the  prioress  and  sisters  of  the  said  house  and  to  their  successors  for 
ever  in  aid  of  their  maintenance  ;  and  now  it  is  foimd  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John  son  of  John  held  the 
premises  at  Hacchesliam  as  aforesaid,  and  that  he  died  without  an 
heir,  whereupon  the  said  prioress  has  prayed  for  livery  thereof  as  her 
escheat,  the  said  manor  having  long  ago  come  to  her  hands  by  the 
death  of  the  said  grantees,  and  being  so  in  her  hand  ;  and  the  king's 
will  is  that  his  said  grant  sliall  remain  in  force. 


To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  It  is  shewn  the  king  by  the  plaint  of 
John  Cos^'n  that,  although  he  many  times  sued  a\  itli  the  sheriffs  for 
execution  of  a  judgment  before  them  rendered  in  the  king's  court  of 
London  concerning  a  cause  before  tliem  in  that  court  without  writ  of 
the  king  according  to  the  custom  of  the  city  of  London  between  the 
said  John  and  Augustine  Symeon  for  a  debt  of  108/.  6s.  Sd.,  by  colour 
of  a  writ  under  the  exchequer  seal  to  them  addressed  for  arresting 
and  keeping  under  arrest  all  the  goods  and  chattels  of  the  said 
Augustine  in  the  said  cit^^  until  satisfaction  should  be  made  for  250 
marks  wherein  he  A\as  bound  to  the  king,  and  for  500/.  wherewith 
John  Thorp  clerk  and  \\'alter  de  Bardes  are  for  particular  causes 
charged  towaid  tl\e  king  for  him,  the  sheriffs  have  hitherto  deferred 
to  proceed  to  execution  of  the  said  judgment,  though  the  king  is  now 
contented  of  the  said  250  marks  and  the  goods  so  arrested  are  sufficient 
as  well  to  content  the  king  for  the  said  sum  of  500/.  as  the  said  John 
Cosyn  for  tlie  debt  by  him  recovered  as  aforesaid,  wherefore  he  has 
prayed  the  king  to  [command]  the  said  500/.  to  be  by  the  sheriffs  levied 
of  the  said  goods  to  the  king's  use  :     Incomplete. 

Vacated  because  not  sealed. 


Aug.  24. 

Eltham. 


Membrane  5. 

To  John  de  Bisshopeston  escheator  in  Kent  and  Surrey.  Order 
to  cause  Edmund  de  Mortuo  Mari  earl  of  March  and  Philippa  his  wife, 
daughter  and  heir  of  Lionel  duke  of  Clarence  and  Elizabeth  his  wife 
tenants  in  chief,  to  have  seisin  of  the  lands  held  by  the  said  duke  her 
father  as  well  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  as  by  the  courtesy  of  England 


56 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1360.  Memimine  5 — cont. 

after  the  death  of  the  said  lOh/.abeth  her  mother  whose  heir  PhiHppa 
is,  and  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  ;  as  the  said  Phihppa 
has  pioviKl  her  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  the 
said  earl's  fealty. 

To  John  de  Cressyngham  escheator  in  Norffolk,  Suffolk,  Essex  and 
Hertfordshire.     Like  order  ;     as  the  said  I'hilippa  has  proved  her  age 
before  John  de  Bisshopeston. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

Nicholas  d«  Styuecle  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire.  Huntingdon- 
shire, iiedfordshire  and  Hukinghamshire. 
William  Cheyne  escheator  in  Somerset  and  Dorset. 
William  Aimcel  escheator  in  Gloucestershire  and  Herefordshire 

and  in  the  march  of  Wales  adjacent. 
Thomas  de  Musgrave  escheator  in  Yorkshire. 

Sept.   13.         INtandate  to  William  de  Wyndesore  the  king's  lieutenant  in  Ireland 

Westminster,  to  deliver  to  the  said  earl  and  Philippa  all  the  lands  held  by  the  said 

duke  in  Ireland  as  well  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  as  by  the  courtesy  of 

England,  and  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death,  with  the  issues 

thereof  taken  since  24  August  aforesaid. 

Oct.  18.  To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 
Westminster.  Order  to  take  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  de  Overton  tenant  in 
chief  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and 
in  presence  of  Thomas  Warner,  to  whom  the  king  by  letters  patent 
has  committed  during  pleasure  the  wardship  of  her  said  husband's 
lands  taken  into  tlie  king's  hand  by  his  death,  to  assign  her  dower 
thereof,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 


Oct.  24.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Berewic  upon  Twede 
Westminster,  or  of  Eland.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Thomas  de  Estwyk,  to  suffer 
him  by  himself  or  his  servants  to  lade  in  either  port  and  take  to  the 
city  of  London  or  elsewhere  within  the  realm  at  his  will  ten  lasts 
of  hides  to  make  his  advantage  thereof,  any  command  of  the  king 
to  them  addressed  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding  ;  as  he  has 
prayed  the  king's  licence  so  to  do,  and  the  king  has  granted  him  licence, 
because  Richard  de  Kent,  Hugh  Bryugge  and  Robert  Terry  all  of  London 
merchants,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  for 
him  that  he  sliall  bring  those  hides  to  London  or  other  places  within 
and  not  without  the  realm,  and  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  forfeiture 
thereof  and  of  the  ship  in  case  they  be  taken  to  any  parts  over  sea, 
and  for  the  custom  thereupon  in  case  they  be  lost  at  sea.  By  C 

Et  erat  patens. 

Nov.  20.  To  Richard  de  U'ydeville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.  Order 
Westminster,  to  assign  to  Ellen  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Dalton  knight  tenant 
in  chief  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  his  death,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in 
chancery  ;  as  the  king  has  taken  of  her  an  oath  that  she  will  not 
marry  without  his  licence. 

Nov.  18.         To  John  de  Bisshopeston  escheator  in  Surrey.     Order  not  to  meddle 

Westminster,  further  with  divers  lands  in  Hattesham  and  elsewhere  taken  into  the 

king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  soii  of  John  Adam,  delivering  up  any 


43    EDWARD    III. 


67 


1300.  Membrane  5 — cont. 

issues  tlieroof  taken  ;  as  the  kiritz  l>as  Icarmcl  \}y  iiuiuisitlon.  taken 
by  the  eselieator.  that  the  said  Jolm  at  liis  death  li<  hi  no  hinds  in  that 
county  in  chief  in  Ins  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  held  divers 
lands  by  divers  services  of  the  prioress  of  Derteford  lady  of  Hattesham. 

Nov.  28.  To  William  Auneell  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.  Order  not  to 
Westminster,  meddle  further  witli  the  manor  of  Walton  Kerdyf  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  the  deatli  of  Edward  de  Keidyf.  delivering  to  Joan 
late  liis  wife  any  issues  tliereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
in(|uisition,  taken  by  the  e.scheator.  that  the  said  Edward  at  his 
death  held  no  lands  in  tiiat  county  \n  eliief  in  his  demesne  a-s  of  fee 
nor  in  service,  but  by  tine  levied  in  the  king's  court  held  the  said  manor 
jointly  with  the  .said  Joan,  and  that  it  is  held  of  another  than  the 
king." 

Oct.  20.  To  the  sheriflF  of  Stafford.  Order  to  repair  in  person  to  a  pasture 
Westminster,  in  Allcrshawe,  and  to  make  inquisition  touching  a  second  overcharge 
tliereof,  and  if  he  shall  so  find  that  the  same  has  been  unlawfully 
overcharged  a  second  time  after  the  measurement  by  him  made, 
to  answer  at  the  exchequer  for  the  cattle  put  thereon  over  and  above 
the  due  number  after  the  said  measurement  or  for  the  price  thereof, 
removing  such  overcharge  ;  as  Thomas  Taverner  of  Lychefeld  has 
shewn  the  king  that  he  brought  a  writ  for  measuring  his  common 
pasture  there,  which  was  overcliarged  by  Adam  le  Rede  of  Allershawe 
and  John  dc  Tiiomonore,  that  by  order  of  the  king  the  sheriff  measured 
the  same  according  to  custom,  and  that  the  said  Adam  and  John  have 
after  that  measurement  a  second  time  unlawfully  overcharged  the 
said  pasture  contrary  to  the  statute. 

Oct.  6.  To  the  sheriff  of  Somerset.     Order  to  cause  another  coroner  of  the 

Westminster,  parts  of  Munedep,  Bruntemerssh.  Wryngemerssh,  Dundray  and 
Whiteston  to  be  elected  instead  of  Baldwin  Malet ;  as  he  is  dead, 
and  the  other  coroners  of  the  county  dwell  in  places  30  leagues 
and  more  distant,  wherefore  those  things  which  pertain  to  the  office  of 
coroner  in  the  parts  aforesaid  by  reason  of  distance  and  the  difficulties 
of  the  way  are  not  done  in  good  time  but  greatly  delayed,  to  the  hurt 
and  grievance  of  the  men  of  those  parts  as  the  king  has  learned. 

Dec.  6.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  York  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  Simon  de  Heslarton,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 


Membrane  4. 

Oct.  27.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London  and  Middlesex.     Order  on  sight  of  these 

Westminster,  presents  forthwith  of  the  issues  of  their  bailiwick  to  cause  1,000  sheaves 
of  arrows  of  good  and  seasoned  wood,  and  not  of  green  wood  as  they 
will  answer  it  before  the  king  himself,  to  be  made  and  purveyed  in  the 
said  city  and  county  within  liberties  and  without,  to  be  fitted  with 
heads  of  steel,  and  come  before  Easter  next  to  the  Tower  of  London, 
to  be  delivered  by  indenture  to  John  de  Sleford  the  king's  clerk, 
keeper  of  his  wardrobe  there,  any  assignments  of  payments  to  be 
made  to  any  persons  bj^  letters  patent,  writs  under  tlie  great  or  privy  seal, 
tallies  or  letters  of  the  treasurer  or  other  the  king's  commands  however 
made  notwithstanding,  knowing  assuredly  that,  unless  the  said  sheaves 
be  made  of  seasoned  wood  and  brought  before  that  feast  to  the  Tower 


58  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1309.  Membrane  4 — c&nt. 

the  kin*^  will  cause  the  shcritT.s  upon  the  view  of  their  account  on  the 
morrow  of  the  clo.se  of  Easter  next  to  be  arrested  and  imprisoned, 
their  lands,  tjoods  and  cliattels  to  be  seized  into  his  hand,  and  the 
said  sheaves  to  be  bought  and  purveyed  of  tlie  issues  thereof,  and 
will  further  cause  them  as  he  may  to  be  in  such  wise  punished  that 
thcii'  punishment  shall  be  a  terror  to  others  who  ne<:;lect  the  execution 
of  the  kinj^'s  ct)minands  ;  as  the  kinj^  has  particular  information 
that  his  adversaries  of  France  and  other  his  enemies  to  them  adhcrinj: 
are  making  ready  with  a  host  of  ships  and  armi'd  men  to  destroy  the  navy 
of  the  realm,  to  hinder  the  passage  of  the  merchants  and  merchandise 
thereof,  and  destroy  the  merchants  and  other  the  king's  liegt-s  by 
every  means  they  may,  if  not  speedil}'  opposed  with  a  strong  liand  ; 
and  it  is  the  king's  will  to  resist  their  malice,  and  make  provision  for 
the  safety  of  the  realm  and  of  the  ships,  merchants  and  merchandise 
thereof.  By  K.  and  C. 

\Foedera.] 
The  like  to  the  following,  mutatis  mutandis  : 

The  shei'iff  of  Bedford  and  Bukingham  and  13  other  sheriffs  to 

purvey  1 ,000  sheaves  each. 
The  sherirt'   of   Leycester    and   five  other  sheriffs  to   purvey  600 

sheaves  each. 
The    sheriff   of   Salop   and    two    other   sheriffs    to    purvey    800 
sheaves  each. 
.    [Ibid.] 

Dec.  7.  To  Hugh  de  Courteneye  earl  of  Devon  and  his  fellows,  guardians 

Westminster,  of  the  peace  and  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  Devon.  Order  to 
set  free  from  prison,  wherein  they  detained  at  command  of  the  said 
justices,  the  seamen  arrested  by  the  said  earl  in  a  ship  of  Hugh 
Peyntour  merchant  of  Vanes,  making  restitution  to  the  said  merchant 
of  his  said  ship,  goods  and  merchandise  according  to  the  judgment 
hereinafter  rehearsed  ;  as  lately  at  the  suit  of  the  said  merchant  the 
king  learned  that  he  was  by  the  said  earl  arrested  and  detained  under 
arrest  with  his  ship,  his  salt  and  other  merchandise,  and  his  seamen, 
praying  that  all  shoidd  be  delivered  as  he  was  the  king's  liege  man 
and  has  done  nought  for  \\  hich  he  ought  to  be  arrested  or  aggrieved  ; 
and  in  consideration  that  it  Mas  then  witnessed  by  many  his  lieges 
that  the  said  merchant  was  his  liege  man,  and  ever  well  disposed 
toward  him  and  his,  willing  therefore  to  do  what  was  lawful  in  that 
behalf,  the  king  conmiandcd  the  said  justices  to  send  the  said  merchant 
before  the  king  and  council  at  Westminster  under  safe  guard  for  which 
they  would  answer,  and  the  cause  wherefore  they  ordered  him  to  be 
arrested  and  detained  with  his  ship,  seamen  and  goods,  so  as  to  be 
there  on  Tuesday  after  St.  Simon  and  St.  Judc  last  in  order  that  the 
king  should  view  the  cause  aforesaid  and  cause  what  further  should  be 
lawful  to  be  done,  and  they  did  so  ;  and  because  Robert  de  Asshton 
admiral  of  the  fleet  from  the  mouth  of  the  Thames  westward,  in  w^hose 
bailiwick  the  said  arrest  was  made  and  to  whom  pertained  the  debate 
of  the  business,  was  at  the  king's  command  occupied  about  other 
business  so  that  he  might  not  have  leisure  so  to  do,  Avilling  that  the 
said  merchant  should  not  be  longer  detained  in  prison,  but  that  the 
matter  should  this  time  be  determined  by  Nicholas  de  Tamworth 
admiral  of  the  fleet  from  the  mouth  of  the  Thames  northwards  instead  of 
the  said  Robert,  the  king  sent  him  the  certificate  of  arrest  sent  by  the 
said    earl,  commanding    him   to  view   the  same,  to  call  before  him 


43    EDVVAKD    111.  69 


1360.  Membrane  4 — cont. 

those  whom  ho  sliould  set-  lit.  to  cauHc  tlic  said  nieirhant  to  come 
before  him,  and  tiiis  time  of  the  kin<^'.s  favour  to  proceed  furtlR-r  to 
deliver  the  said  merchant,  his  ship,  goods  and  seamen,  according  to 
maritime  law  ;  whcieupon  the  said  Nicholas  took  with  liim  William 
de  \\  ythingham  one  of  the  justices  of  the  ("ommon  Ucnch,  Kdmund 
de  Chelreye  deputed  to  })lead  pleas  for  the  king  and  Robert  de 
Tresilian.  all  learned  in  the  law,  and  by  the  constable  of  the  Tower 
of  London,  in  \\hosc  custody  he  was,  caused  the  said  merchant  to  come 
before  him  in  the  port  of  the  said  city,  and  in  presence  of  those  aforesaid 
learned  in  the  law  had  speech  \\ith  him  concerning  adherence  to  the 
king's  enemies  of  France,  destruction  of  boats  and  fishermen  along 
the  sea  coast  and  other  evildomgs  in  the  said  certificate  contained, 
who  said  he  was  in  no  wise  guilty  and  put  himself  upon  the  country  ; 
and  the  jurors  thereupon  chosen,  sworn  and  tried  said  upon  their  oath 
that  he  is  not  guilty,  and  being  further  asked  if  his  seamen  of  the  said 
ship  were  guilty  in  any  of  the  premises  against  the  king  and  his 
subjects,  so  that  order  .should  be  taken  for  their  safe  custody  if  they 
were  there  accused,  the  jurors  said  they  are  not  guilty,  nor  any  of  them  ; 
wherefore  by  advice  of  those  aforesaid  learned  in  the  law  it  is 
determined  that  the  said  merchant  and  seamen  sliall  be  set  free,  and 
full  restitution  shall  be  made  of  the  said  ship,  goods  and  merchandise, 
as  the  king  is  assured  by  the  tenor  of  the  record  and  process  of  the 
business  sent  into  chancery  at  his  command. 

Dec.   10  To  John  Moubray,   Thomas  de  Ingelby,   \A'illiam  de  Fyncheden 

Westminster.  John  de  Langet(m  and  William  Uraa.  Order  that  they,  four  etc.  of 
whom  the  said  John  Moubray,  Thomas  or  William  de  Fyncheden  shall 
be  one,  shall  proceed  to  make  iiKjuisition,  according  to  the  form  of 
the  king's  commission  to  them,  touching  the  things  contained  in  an 
information  laid  against  \Mlliam  Coke  of  Kexby,  and  shall  without 
delay  send  such  inquisition  into  chancery  under  their  seals  and  the 
seals  of  those  by  whom  it  shall  be  made,  and  also  this  writ,  staying 
the  determination  of  the  evildoings  hereinafter  rehearsed  until  the 
king,  being  by  them  certified  touching  the  said  inquisition,  shall  send 
instructions  as  to  what  shall  be  lawful  therein,  but  continuing  the 
process  so  far  as  shall  be  lawful  in  the  meantime  ;  as  lately  at  the 
plaint  of  Roger  de  Relby  mayor  of  York  the  king  learned  that  when 
he  was  lately  occupied  about  the  execution  of  the  king's  commands, 
the  keeping  of  the  peace,  and  the  restraining  of  evildoers  in  the  said 
city,  the  said  AVilliam  Coke,  scheming  cunningly  to  hinder  him  therein, 
and  other  evildoers  and  disturbers  of  the  peace  with  abusive  and 
crafty  words  assailed  the  said  mayor,  assaulted  him  with  force  of 
arms,  with  drawn  knife  laid  violent  hands  upon  him,  and  would  have 
slain  him  had  not  a  rescue  been  speedily  made,  whereby  the  king's 
business  remained  undone,  the  offenders  there  by  aid  of  the  said 
William  escaped  \^  ithout  punishment,  and  other  crimes  were  committed 
contrary  to  the  peace,  to  the  contempt  and  prejudice  of  the  king,  the 
hurt  of  the  said  mayor,  and  the  disturbance  of  the  whole  city, 
wherefore  the  said  William  was  taken  and  committed  to  the  king's 
prison  of  York  wherein  he  is  yet  detained,  and  the  king  not  willing 
that  such  contempts  and  evildoings  shall  pass  without  punishment 
appomted  the  said  persons  justices  to  make  inquisition  concerning 
the  names  of  the  evildoers  who  with  the  said  William  committed  the 
same  and  concerning  the  truth  of  the  premises,  and  to  hear  and 
determine  the  contempts,  trespasses  and  evildoings  aforesaid  as  well 


60 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


18()i).  Membrane  4 — cont. 

at  the  suit  of  thf  king  as  of  tlu'  said  mayor  accordinf»  to  the  law  and 
custom  of  England  ;  and  because  the  king  has  undoubted  information 
by  certiain  crctlil)!!'  persons  that  the  allegaticm  whereupon  the  said 
commission  was  niacle  was  untrue,  he  wcjuld  be  by  the  said  justices 
fully  eeitified  touching  the  same  before  the  evildoings  therein 
contained  are  determined. 


Membrane  .'i. 

Nov.  20.  To  Nicholas  de  Styuede  late  escheator  in  liukinghamsliire.  Order 
Westminster,  not  to  meddle  furtlu'r  with  a  manor  in  Weston  Turvile  and  the 
advowson  of  that  churfh  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of 
Joan  who  was  wife  of  Micliael  de  Ponynges,  delivering  up  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
said  Niehoia'^,  that  the  said  Joan  at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that 
bailiwick  in  chief  nor  of  any  other  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  by  fine 
levied  in  the  king's  court  held  the  said  manor  and  advowson  of  the 
feoffment  of  John  de  Molyns  knight  to  hei-  and  John  sometime  her 
husband  son  of  the  said  John  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with 
remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  William  brother  of  the  said  John 
the  son  (yet  living)  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  that  John  the  .son 
and  Joan  are  dead  ^\ithout  an  heir  of  their  bodies,  wherefore  the 
premises  ought  by  virtue  of  the  said  fine  to  remain  to  the  said  William, 
and  that  the  same  are  held  of  another  than  the  king. 

Nov.  28,  To  John  de  Rokwode  escheator  in  Suffolk.  Order  not  to  meddle 
Westminster,  further  with  the  lands  which  Giles  de  Neketon  at  his  death  held  by 
knight  service  of  the  abbey  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  lately  void  and 
in  the  king's  hand,  and  which  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the 
nonage  of  Margaret  daughter  and  heir  of  the  said  Giles  and  of  the 
vacancy  of  the  said  abbey  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  and  are  yet 
in  his  hand  ;  as  the  said  Margaret,  whom  John  Crull  has  taken  to  wife, 
has  proved  her  age  before  Nicholas  de  Styuecle  escheator  in  Cambridge- 
shire, and  on  12  November  in  the  35th  yeai-  of  his  reign  the  king  took 
the  fealty  of  brother  John  de  Brynkele  now  abbot,  and  restored  to  him 
the  temporalities  of  the  said  abbey. 

Nov.  26.  To  John  de  Rokwode  escheator  in  Nor ff oik.  Order  in  presence  of 
Westminster.  Helmyng  Leget  the  king's  esquire,  to  whom  he  has  committed  the 
wardship  of  the  lands  of  Thomas  de  Feltham,  tenant  by  knight 
service  of  the  heir  of  Adam  de  Clifton  knight  tenant  in  chief,  a  minor 
in  the  king's  wardship,  or  in  presence  of  his  attorney  if  being  warned 
he  will  attend,  to  assign  to  Joan  who  was  wife  of  the  said  Thomas 
dower  of  the  lands  of  her  said  husband  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  sending  the  assignment 
under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

Dec.  12.  To  William  de  Catesby  escheator  in  Leycestershire.  Order  not 
Westminster,  to  meddle  further  with  twelve  messuages  and  twelve  virgates  of 
land  in  Sheynton  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Joan 
who  was  wife  of  William  de  Harecourt,  delivering  up  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  the  said  Joan  at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county 
in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  premises  in  fee  tail  of 
others  than  the  king  with  reversion  to  Elizabeth  wife  of  Thomas  son 
of  Thomas  de  Asteleye,  daughter  and  heir  of  Richard  de  Harecourt 
knight  the  eldest  son  of  the  said  William  and  Joan. 


43  EDWARD  HI.  61 


1369.  Membrane  3 — cont. 

To  Thomas  de  Musgravo  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Like  order  in 
regard  to  tlie  manors  of  l^ynghiy  and  H('hii.rhf('l{l  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  (as  above)  that  the  said  Joan  at  her  death  held  the  said  manors 
of  others  than  the  king  to  lier  and  the  lieirs  of  l)er  body  of  \\\c  gift 
and  feoffment  of  John  de  Harecoiut  of  I?os(>\\()rtli  to  the  said  Wilham 
and  Joan  and  to  the  Iteirs  of  their  bodies. 

Dec.  24.  To  Jolm  duke  of  Lincastre  tlie  king's  son,  or  to  his  representative, 
[King's]  slieriffs.  stewards  or  haihiTs  and  minist(M's  in  Wales  whatsoever. 
Langley.  Order  upon  their  allegiance,  under  pain  of  forfeiture,  as  they  love  the 
king  and  his  honour  and  desire  the  salvation  of  the  realm  and  of  the 
principality  of  Wales,  on  sight  of  these  presents  forthwith  to  postpone 
all  else  and  ceasing  every  exc-use  to  cause  all  castles,  fortresses,  towns 
and  other  places  within  the  said  principality  to  be  furnished  with 
men  at  arms,  armed  men  and  archers,  with  victuals  and  other 
things  needful,  and  all  the  men,  tenants  and  inhabitants  within  the 
said  diike's  lordship  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition  to  be  arrayed 
A\ith  arms  as  their  estate  demands,  and  kept  in  array  ready  at 
all  times  to  resist  the  malice  of  the  king's  enemies  if  any  shall 
invade  those  parts,  causing  all  men  in  the  same  who  are  suspected 
of  adherence  of  the  said  enemies,  or  of  covin,  aid,  coun.sel  or  favour 
toward  them,  to  be  arrested  and  kept  in  safe  custody  under  arrest  in 
prison  while  danger  threatens,  so  that  no  hurt  or  peril  happen  to 
the  king  and  realm  or  to  his  lieges  by  those  enemies  or  their 
adherents  ;  as  lately  upon  information  received  that  his  enemies 
of  France  and  other  their  adherents,  endeavouring  to  do  away  the 
king  and  realm  and  all  the  English  tongue  and  to  destroy  the  said 
principality,  drawing  tlie  same  imder  their  dominion,  purposed  to 
land  within  the  principality  with  a  host  of  ships,  men  at  arms  and 
armed  men,  the  king  many  times  commanded  the  said  duke  and 
every  other  the  lords  thereof  and  their  nunisters  whatsoever, 
charging  them  before  him  and  the  council  to  furnish  all  castles  etc., 
Rrray  and  keep  in  array  all  the  men  with.in  their  lordships  ready  to 
resist  the  malice  of  the  said  enemies,  and  to  arrest  and  detain  all 
those  suspected  as  aforesaid  ;  and  nou'  by  divers  messengers  arriving 
day  by  day  the  king  has  particular  information  tluit  the  said  enemies 
are  actually  at  sea  with  such  a  host,  purposing  and  preparing  to  land 
within  the  said  principality,  to  draw  and  subject  the  same  to  their 
dominion,  and  to  the  utmost  of  their  power  utterly  to  destroy  and 
overthrow  the  king  and  his  lieges  if  they  be  not  speedily  resisted  with 
a  strong  hand  ;  and  it  is  th(>  king's  will  to  oppose  their  malice  by  all 
means  he  may,  as  lie  ought  to  do.  By  K. 

{Feeder  a.] 

The  like  to  the  following  lords  • 

Richard  earl  of  .\rundell  and  five  other  earls,  including  Edmund 

de  Mortuo  Mari  oai\  of  March. 
The  countess  mother  of  March. 

Ed\\ard  lord  le  Despenser,  and  the  lord  de  Grey  of  Ruthyn. 
Guy  de  Bryene  and  five  other  lords. 

Elizabeth  daughter  and  heir  of  William  Botiller  of  Wemme. 
Tngelram  de  Coney  earl  of  Bedeford,  for  the  lands  of  Edmund 

earl  of  ^March,  within  age  and  in  the  king's  wardship,  which 

bv  the  king's  grant  are  in  his  wardship. 
[Ibid.] 


62 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


13C9.  Membrane  3 — cont. 

Dec.  24.  To  the  representative  of   Edward   prince  of  Acjuitaine  and  Wales 

Westiniurtter.  and  earl  of  Chester,  liis  sheiifTs,  st<'\vards,  bailitis  and  ministers  in 
Wales  whatsoever.  Like  order,  mutatis  mutandis,  reciting  also  the 
kinji's  eoinniand  to  make  proclamation  in  the  cities,  boroughs,  market 
towns  and  other  places  in  the  said  principality  on  the  king's  behalf 
directing  all  and  singular  the  lords  thereof,  under  pain  of  forfeiture, 
to  furnish  and  fortify  all  their  eastles,  towns  and  other  fortresses 
there,  to  array  and  keep  in  array  all  the  men,  tenants  and  inhabitants 
within  their  lordsliips.  and  to  airest  and  detain  all  suspects.  By  K. 
[Ibid] 


Membrane  2. 

Nov.  10.  To  William  Banastre  of  Yorton  escheator  in  Salop.  Order  to  take 
Westminster,  the  fealty  of  Alice  late  the  wife  of  William  de  Stuchc  according  to  the 
form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  moiety 
of  the  hamlet  of  Wlonkeslowe  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  said 
William's  death,  delivering  to  her  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  in(juisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said 
William  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne 
as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  nioiety  jointly  with  the  said  Alice  of  the 
gift  and  feoffment  of  Richard  de  Yorton  chaplain  and  Vivian  de  Stuche 
to  them  made  with  the  king's  licence,  and  that  the  same  is  held  in 
chief  by  the  service  of  finding  at  his  own  costs  one  footman  at 
Montgomery  castle  in  time  of  war  in  Wales. 

Oct.  18.  To  John  de  Evesham  escheator  in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 
Westminster.  Order  to  take  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  de  Overton  tenant  in 
chief  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and 
in  presence  of  Thomas  Warner,  to  whom  the  king  by  letters  patent 
has  committed  during  pleasure  the  wardship  of  all  her  said  husband's 
lands,  or  of  his  attorney  if  being  warned  he  will  attend,  to  assign  and 
deliver  to  the  said  Joan  dower  of  her  husband's  lands  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  his  death,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be 
enrolled  in  chancery. 

Nov.  12.  To  William  Cheyne  escheator  in  Somerset.  Order  not  to  meddle 
Westminster,  further  with  the  manor  of  Lopene  and  Stratton  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  John  de  Meriet  knight,  delivering  to  Maud  late 
his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John  at  his  death 
held  the  said  manor  jointly  with  the  said  Maud  for  their  lives  and 
to  the  heirs  of  the  said  John,  and  that  the  same  is  held  in  chief  by 
knight  service  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  the  said  Maud's  fealty. 

To  the  same.  Order  to  assign  to  Maud  who  was  wife  of  John  Meriet 
knight  tenant  in  chief  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  his  death,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be 
enrolled  in  chancery  ;  as  the  king  has  taken  of  her  an  oath  that  she 
will  not  marrj'  without  his  licence. 

The  like  to  Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire. 

Oct.  26.  To  Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.     Order  to  deliver 

Westminster,  in  dower  to  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  Henry  de  Bello  Monte  knight 

tenant  in  chief,  and  of  whom  the  king  has  taken  an  oath  that  she  will 

not  marry  without  his  Ucence,  the  manor  of  Hekyngton  extended  at 


43    EDWARD    III.  63 


1309.  Membrane  2 — cont. 

80  marks  a  year,  the  manor  of  8tyuet(m  at  25/.,  and  two  messuages 
with  appurtenances  in  Lincoln  at  20'?.  a  year,  whicli  the  king  has 
as.signcd  to  lici'  of  her  said  hushiind's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  licir. 

Nov.  10.  To  Master  .John  de  Bolton  the  king's  clerk,  chamberlain  of  the 
Westminster,  town  of  Berewic  upon  TAvede.  Order  to  assign  and  deliver  to  Margaret 
who  was  wife  of  Henry  de  Bello  Monte  knight  tenant^  in  cliief  dower 
of  her  said  husband's  lands  witiiin  the  king's  douiinion  of  Scotland 
according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  those  parts,  together  with  the 
issues  thereof  taken  since  26  October  last,  sending  the  assignment  to 
be  enrolled  in  tl\e  chancery  of  England  ;  as  on  that  day  the  king  took 
of  her  an  oath  that  he  would  not  marry  without  his  licence,  and 
assigned  her  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  within  the  realm  of 
England,  couinianding  livery  thereof  to  be  given  her. 

Nov.  12.  To  \\'illiam  Banastre  of  Yorton  escheator  in  Salop.  Order  to  take 
Westminster,  the  fealty  of  Joan  late  the  wife  of  Philij)  ap  Rees  knight  according 
to  the  form  of  a  schedule  eui'loscxl,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the 
manor  of  Ideshale  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  said  Philip's 
death,  delivering  to  the  said  Joan  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the 
king  has  learnecl  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said 
Philip  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  nor  of  any 
other  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  manor  jointly  with 
the  said  Joan  of  the  gift  of  William  de  liohun  late  earl  of  Norhampton 
and  Elizabeth  his  wife  made  with  the  king's  licence  to  them  and  the 
heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  the  same  is  held  in  chief  by  knight 
service. 

Nov.  29.  To  John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.  Order  to  assign 
Westminster,  to  Christiana  who  was  wife  of  John  Filz  Eustace  tenant  in  chief  dower 
of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death, 
sending  the  assignment  vuader  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery  ;  as 
the  king  has  taken  of  the  said  Christiana  an  oath  that  she  will  not 
marry  without  his  licence. 

Nov.  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton.  Order  to  cause  the  prior  of  Haylyng, 
Westminster,  an  alien,  with  one  companion  and  one  groom  only,  to  be  taken  to 
the  priory  of  Suthwyk  and  delivered  to  the  prior  thereof,  there 
to  abide  as  hereinafter  rehearsed  ;  as  the  king  is  informed  that 
the  said  prior  of  Haylyng  has  received  of  the  king's  enemies  of 
France  great  number  of  letters  and  other  things  to  the  prejudice 
of  the  king  and  his  realm,  and  has  by  letters  and  messengers  revealed 
the  secrets  of  the  realm  contrary  to  his  oath  to  the  king,  wherefore  the 
king's  will  is  that  he  shall  abide  at  his  own  costs  in  the  priory  of 
SutTiwyk  under  custody  of  the  prior  thereof  until  the  king  be  more 
fully  certified  touching  the  premises,  so  that  without  the  presence  of 
the  prior  of  Suthwyk  he  have  no  speech  nor  communication  with 
strangers,  and  that  the  priory  of  Haylyng  meanwliile  be  kept  and 
ruled  by  his  deputies.  The  king  has  commanded  the  prior  of 
Suthwyk  to  receive  the  said  prior  in  his  priory  of  Suthwyk,  assigning 
him  within  the  same  houses  competent  for  his  estate.  By  K. 

Mandate  to  the  prior  of  Haylyng  to  repair  with  one  companion 
and  one  groom  to  the  priory  of  Suthwyk,  and  there  abide. 


64  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1369.  Membrane  2 — cont. 

Nov.  24.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  harons  of  the  e.xchequer.  Order  before 
Weetininster.  the  auditor.s  by  the  council  appointed  for  the  purpose  to  audit  the 
account.s  of  the  ministers  of  Queen  Philippa  concerning  her  lands 
as  well  in  her  life  time  as  after  her  death  up  to  Michaelmas  last,  to 
nuike  such  allowances  by  judgment  of  the  said  auditors  and  by 
warrants  under  the  seals  of  the  said  queen  and  of  the  steward  of  her 
lands  as  in  her  life  time  used  to  be  made,  and  to  cause  the  said  accounts 
to  be  before  them  enrolled  in  the  exchequer,  allowing  at  the  exchequer 
the  allowances  by  the  said  auditors  so  made,  and  the  moneys  paid  in 
the  king's  receipt  by  the  said  ministers,  and  causing  arrears  pending 
in  the  said  accounts  to  be  levied  to  the  king's  use. 

To  William  Albyn  bailiff  of  the  king's  manor  of  Haveryng  atte  Boure. 
Order  of  the  issues  of  the  said  manor  to  cause  the  defects  of  the  houses 
thereof  to  be  repaired  by  view  and  testimony  of  Clement  Spice  steward 
of  the  court  there. 

To  the  reeve  of  the  king's  manor  of  Istelworth.  Order  of  the  issues 
of  the  said  manor  to  cause  the  defects  of  the  bridge  and  head  of  the 
pond  of  Babeworthepound  to  be  repaired  by  view  and  testimony  of 
John  Weche  steward  of  the  said  manor  court,  and  the  water  mill  of 
Istelworth  to  be  new^  built. 

To  Helmyng  Leget  the  king's  esquire  keeper  of  Wyndesore  forest, 
or  to  his  representative  there.  Order  to  deliver  by  indenture  to  the 
reeve  of  the  king's  manor  of  Cokham  twelve  oaks  and  sixteen  beeches 
as  well  in  Bray  as  in  Cokham  for  the  repair  of  the  water  mill  of 
Cokham. 

To  the  foresters  of  the  king's  forest  of  Knaresburgh,  and  to  his 
parker  of  the  Hay.  Order  to  deliver  by  indenture  to  the  king's 
ministers  appointed  to  execute  his  \\  orks  A\'ithin  his  lordship  there  oaks 
and  other  trees  sufficient  for  timber  for  the  said  works. 

1370.  Membrane   1. 

Jan.  12.  To  Nicholas  de  Tamwortli  admiral  of  the  fleet  towards  the  north, 
Westminster,  or  to  his  lieutenant  in  Suffolk.  Order  to  hear  the  plaint  of  James 
Henrison,  William  Leche,  Jolm  Wode,  Thomas  '  Rosse  Vet,'  John  de 
Syres,  John  Scoot,  Adam  de  Dalgarnok,  John  de  Fodilmuth,  John 
de  Aynecroft  and  John  de  Lichardewode  merchants  of  Aberden  in 
Scotland,  alleging  that  certain  goods  and  merchandise  in  a  ship  of 
William  Mone  of  Seland  called  '  la  Seinfe  Marie,'  which  was  by  a 
storm  cast  upon  land  and  wrecked  at  Kirkele  Rode  in  Suffolk,  were 
by  evildoers  unlawfully  carried  away,  to  view  the  inquisition  by  the 
king's  command  taken  at  the  suit  of  the  said  mercliants  by  William 
de  Wychingham,  Edmund  Gurneye,  John  de  Berneye  and  Reynold 
de  Eccles,  which  the  king  is  sending  under  his  seal,  and  to  cause  all 
goods  and  merchandise  which  thereby  or  by  other  inquisition  or 
otheiwise  the  admiral  or  lieutenant  may  be  assured  were  of  the 
said  merchants  and  were  carried  away  or  arrested  to  be  restored  and 
delivered  to  the  said  merchants,  or  to  the  said  James  the  general 
attorney  of  them  all,  according  to  the  form  of  the  truce  lately  agreed 
upon  between  the  king  for  himself  and  his  subjects  and  David  de  Bruys 
of  Scotland  for  himself  and  his  subjects  and   according   to  maritime 


43  EDWARD  III.  66 


1370.  Membrane  1 — cont.  ' 

law,  that  by  default  of  tlic  admiral  or  lieutenant  loud  complaint 
come  not  a  second  time  to  tlie  king's  ears  ;  as  in  tlie  said  truce  it  is 
contained  that  while  the  truce  shall  endure  all  men  of  either  party 
may  have  communication  witli  one  another  by  land  and  sea,  castles 
and  fortified  towns  excepted,  and  that  in  case  any  ship  on  one  side 
or  the  other  be  driven  by  storm  or  other  need  to  touch  in  any  ports 
in  England  or  Scotland,  the  same  may  peaceably  there  touch,  abide 
and  rest,  be  furnished  with  victuals  for  a  competent- time,  and  freely 
return  thence  with  goods  and  people  without  arrest  or  hindrance  ; 
and  it  is  the  king's  will  that  the  said  truce  shall  be  observed  in  all 
things.  By  K.  and  C. 

Jan.  li).  To  John  atte  Wode  farmer  of  the  king's  manor  of  Feckenham. 
Westminster.  Order  of  the  farm  of  that  manor  to  make  all  payments  as  well  for 
wages  of  carpenters  and  other  workmen  as  for  repair  of  the  defects  of 
the  pond  of  the  said  manor,  of  tlie  enclosure  of  the  park  and  hays  and 
of  the  roofing  of  tlie  king's  lodge  there  by  indentures  to  be  made  between 
the  said  John  and  Henry  Wynterfold,  Nicholas  Wawhe  and  Richard 
Gravenore  ;  as  the  king  lias  by  letters  patent  appointed  the  said  Henry 
and  Nicholas  to  cause  those  repairs  to  be  made  by  view  and  testimony 
of  the  said  Richard  ranger  of  his  forest  there,  taking  and  putting  upon 
the  said  works  carpenters  and  other  workmen  and  labomers  as  many 
as  need  be,  there  to  abide  as  long  as  they  shall  be  required  at  the 
king's  wages  to  be  paid  by  the  said  farmer,  and  buying  and  purveying 
timber  and  other  things  needful  for  the  work  for  the  king's  money 
likewise  to  be  paid  by  the  said  farmer.  By  K. 

Jan.  14.  To  Thomas  de  Musgrave  escheator  in  Cumberland  and  Northumber- 
Westminster.  land.  Order  to  stay  his  demand  made  upon  the  said  John  [sic)  to  do 
homage  and  fealty  to  the  king,  releasing  any  distress  for  that  cause 
made  ;  as  Gilbert  de  Umframville  earl  of  Anegos,  who  has  taken 
to  wife  ^laud  sister  of  Anthony  de  Luci,  being  cousin  and  heir  of  Joan 
daughter  and  heir  of  the  said  Anthony  tenant  in  chief,  has  done 
homage  and  fealty  to  the  king,  due  by  reason  of  issue  between  him  and 
the  said  !Maud  begotten,  for  the  said  Anthony's  lands  which  came  to 
the  king's  hands  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  tlie  said 
Joan,  who  died  within  age  in  the  king's  wardship.        By  p.s.  [28145.] 

Jan.  22.  To  Edward  prince  of  Aquitaine  and  Wales,  his  stewards  and 
Westminster,  representatives,  and  to  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Kermerdyn  in  Wales. 
Order,  as  they  love  the  king  and  his  honour  and  desire  the  salvation  of  the 
realm,  to  cause  all  ships  of  100  tuns  burden  and  upwards  with  sufficient 
gear  which  are  in  the  port  of  that  town  to  be  arrested  ^nthout  delay, 
furnished  a\  ith  seamen,  men  at  arms,  armed  men  and  archers,  and 
brought  to  the  port  of  Plymmuth,  so  that  they  be  there  at  latest  within 
four  daj^s  after  the  Purification  next,  ready  each  ship  with  a  double 
equipment  of  seamen  to  sail  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of 
Guy  de  Brvene  as  he  shall  give  them  notice  on  the  king's  behalf  ; 
as  the  king  has  charged  the  said  Guy  to  sail  with  certain  ships  of  the 
realm  to  resist  the  malice  of  the  king's  enemies  of  France,  who  are 
now  at  sea.  and  with  God's  help  to  destroy  them. 

The  like  to  the  said  prince,  his  stewards  etc.  and  to  the  mayor  and 
baiUffs  of  Tynby. 

.    CR  5 


66  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1370.  Membrane  1 — cont. 

Jan.   18.  To  Rulpli  oarl  of  Stafford,   lord  of  Xcuport  in  Wales.     Order  to 

Westminster,  deliver  by  indenture  to  theeustody  of  Jolindukeof  Lanoa.stre  the  king's 
son  Riehard  ap  Thewelyn  by  the  said  earl  taken  and  detained  in 
the  prison  of  Neuport  eastle  at  the  king's  eomnuind,  for  particular 
causes  him  moving.  The  king  is  giving  command  to  the  said  duke  to 
receive  and  keep  the  said  Richard  in  safe  custody  without  making 
mainprise  or  any  otlier  delivery  of  him.  By  K, 

I\handate  to  tlie  said  duke  to  receive  the  said  Richard  of  the  said  earl, 
and  to  keep  him  in  safe  custody  as  above  until  further  order. 

13G9.  Membrane  ^M. 

Jan.  26.         William     Clopton    of     Warden    to    the    abbot    of    Feveresham. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  200^,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  Cambiidgeshire  and  Essex. 

Jan.  26.         Richard    Pope   of    Bukinghamshire    and    Roger    Alby    citizen    of 
Westminster.  London  to  Queen  Pliilippa.     Joint  and  several   recognisance  for  40/., 
to  be  levied  etc.  in  Bukmgliamshire. 

Charter  of  John  de  la  Pole  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to  John 
Moubray  of  Cliflond  knight,  John  Bataille,  Robert  Charwolton, 
Robert  Antoigne,  A\'illiam  de  Lyndesele  and  John  Kympton,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  his  manor  of  Assheby  David  \\ith  wards,  reliefs, 
escheats,  rents,  services  and  other  profits  in  the  town  of  Grendon, 
the  advowson  of  Assheby  David  excepted.  Witnesses :  ^^'illiam 
Woulf  lord  of  Estone,  Philip  de  Weston  parson  of  Grendon,  John 
Baily  of  the  same,  Robert  Freman,  John  Freman.  Dated  Assheby 
aforesaid,  Saturday  the  feast  of  the  Annunciation  42  Edward  III. 

M emornndxim  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
31  January  this  year. 

Feb.  1.  Richard  Depedene  to  Ralph  Basset  of  Drayton  knight.   Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  1,000  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Yorkshire. 

A\'riting  of  Robert  de  Baiocis  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Sir  William 
de  Burton  knight  and  to  Richard  de  Baiocis  son  of  Sir  Richard  de 
Baiocis  knight  (militis),  tlieir  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of 
Covj^ngton  co.  Huntyngdon  A\hich  they  tlie  said  William  and  Richard 
lately  acquired  jointly  in  fee  of  Richard  de  Baiocis  knight  and 
Katherine  his  wife.  Witnesses  :  Thomas  de  Styuekelee  knight, 
William  Moigne,  Roland  Dauneys,  John  de  Haryngton  knights, 
Nicholas  de  Styuekelee,  John  de  Harughdon,  John  de  Wympton. 
Dated  Covyngton,  Thursday  the  feast  of  St.  Thomas  the  Apoi5tle 
31  Edward  TIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgement,   1  February  this  year. 

Writing  of  Richard  de  Baiocis  knight,  being  a  grant  and  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Sir  William  de  Burton  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  the  manor  of  the  Wodehall  in  Arkesdene.  Witnesses  :  William 
Bealfow,  Robert  de  la  Rokele,  Laurence  Hauberk,  William  fitz 
Richard,  John  de  Wempton.  Dated  Tolthorp,  Monday  after  the 
Epiphany  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  1  Februeiry  this  year. 


43    EDWARD    III.  67 


1309.  Membrane  35rf — cont. 

Writinfr  of  William  do  Baiocis  clork,  boincr  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Sir  \\illiam  de  l^urton  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor 
of  the  Wodehall  in  Arkesdene.  Witnesses  :  \\'illiam  Beaufow  etc. 
{as  the  lest).     Date  (as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  1  February  this  year. 

Writing  of  Richard  son  of  Sir  Richard  de  Baiocis  knight  {militis), 
being  a  grant  and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Sir  William  de  liurton 
knight,  liis  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  the  Wodehall  in 
Arkesdene.     Witnesses  and  date  {as  above). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  1  February  this  year. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Baiocis  knight,  being  a  grant  and  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Sir  William  de  Burton  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  the  manor  of  the  Wodehall  in  Arkesdene.  Witnesses  and  date 
{as  above). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  1  February  this  year. 

Feb.  3.  Stephen  atte  Lane  of  Stretford  Langthorne  to  William  de  Alyngton 

Westminster,  parson  of  Fifhide.     Recognisance  for  41.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Essex. 

Membrane  34rf. 

Charter  of  John  de  Massyngliam  clerk,  giving  with  warranty  to 
Robert  Freman  of  Brinyngham,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  all  the  lands 
in  Kent  which  he  the  said  John  has  at  the  date  of  these  presents. 
Witnesses  :  John  Mortymer,  Gosselin  Osbeine,  Richard  Cardoun, 
Richard  Bokelond.  AA'illiam  Jakes,  John  Sowle.  Dated  Clyve  co. 
Kent,  24  January  42  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  John  de  Massyngham  clerk,  giving  to  Robert  Freman 
of  Brinyngham  all  his  goods  and  chattels  quick  and  dead  in  Kent  and 
Hertfoidsliire.     Dated  {as  the  last). 

Memorandmn  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  3  February  this  year. 

Writing  of  John  de  Massyngham  clerk,  granting  to  Robert  Lam- 
bourne  clerk,  Ralph  Prote  baker  of  London  and  Robert  Freman  of 
Brinyngham,  their  executors  and  assigns,  the  wardship  of  the  lands 
of  INIargaret  daughter  and  one  of  the  heirs  of  Robert  Ram  of  Clyve 
CO.  Kent  until  her  lawful  age,  also  her  marriage.     Dated  {as  above). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  February  this  year. 

Feb.  6.  Maurice  le  Brune  knight  to  Richard  de  Ravensere  clerk.     Recog- 

Westminster.  nisance  for  5  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  Surrey. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Feb.  7.  Gerard  Braybroke  knight  to  Richard  Stury  knight.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  200/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Bukinghanishire. 

Indenture  made  between  Richard  Stury  knight  and  Gerard  de 
Braybroke  knight,  being  a  defeasance  of  tlie  foregoing  indenture, 
upon  condition  that  the  said  Gerard  sliall  marry  without  disparagement 


6S  CALENDAR   OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1369.  Membrane  34</— con^ 

Elizabeth  and  Eleanor  dauj^hters  and  heirs  of  John  de  Wodehulle, 
knight,  sliall  save  hannles.s  him  the  said  Kichard,  his  heirs  and 
executors,  concerning  any  waste  made  in  two  thirds  of  the  said 
John's  hxnds  while  in  the  wardship  of  the  said  Gerard,  of  Isabel  who 
was  wife  of  tlie  said  John  or  of  their  assigns,  which  wardship  the  said 
Gerard  has  of  the  said  Richard's  grant,  and  shall  acquit  the 
said  Richard  toward  Eleanor  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Wodehulle 
father  of  the  said  John  concerning  a  yearly  rent  thereof  ij?suing,  toward 
anv  lords  of  the  fees  concerning  services  and  customs  thereof  due,  and 
toward  any  others  concerning  all  charges  during  the  wardship  aforesaid. 
Witnesses  :  Reynold  Malyns,  Baldwin  de  Bereforde,  John  Kentwode 
knights,  John  de  Harderne,  William  W'odhulle,  Thomas  Doly.  Dated 
London,  8  February  4.3  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  8  February. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  a  statute  merchant  wherein  Gerard  de 
Braybroke  knight,  Reynold  Malyns  knight  and  William  Burstall 
parson  of  Flamstcde  are  jointly  and  severally  bound  to  Sir  Richard 
Stury  kniglit  in  1,060^  13.s.  ^d.,  upon  condition  that  they  shall  in  the 
church  of  St.  Lawrence  by  Candelwykstretc  London  pay  to  Sir  Richard 
or  his  attorney  800  marks,  to  wit  200  marks  on  1  April  next  year, 200 
marks  on  1  April  following,  and  so  from  year  to  year  until  the  said 
sum  be  fully  paid.  Dated  London,  2  February  43  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  7  February. 

Writing  of  Roger  de  Boys  knight,  son  of  John  de  Boys  knight, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  Pyel,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  the  manor  of  AVodforde  co.  Norhampton  and  the  advowson  of  a 
mediety  of  the  church.     Dated  London,  8  February  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  9  February. 

Writing  of  Jolm  de  Boys,  son  of  John  de  Boys  knight  {militis),  being 
a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  Pyel,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the 
manor  of  Wodforde  co.  Norhampton  and  the  advowson  of  a  mediety 
of  the  church.     Dated  {as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  ackno\^■ledgment,  9  February. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Travers,  granting  with  warranty  to  Robert  de 
Beleknappe  and  Amy  his  wife,  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  Robert, 
the  reversion  of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  etc.  in  Ditton  and 
Estmallynge  co.  Kent  sometime  of  Simon  Fraunceys  of  London,  now 
held  by  Geoffrey  de  Ditton  during  the  life  of  Maud  who  was  wife  of  the 
said  Simon  by  her  demise  with  reversion  to  the  said  Thomas  and  his 
heirs  ;  and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  the  said  Robert  and  Amy 
and  to  the  heirs  of  the  said  Robert  of  the  manor  or  tenement  in 
Kenyngton  in  the  same  county  called  LUee  sometime  of  the  said  Simon, 
with  all  lands,  rents,  services  and  commodities  thereto  belonging. 
Dated  London,  Friday  the  feast  of  the  Purification  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  9  February. 

Writing  of  John  de  Middelton,  John  de  Southam,  Henry  de 
Herbury,  John  Grene  clerk  and  Richard  Bythewatre  clerk,  being  a 
quitclaim  to  Robert  de  Beleknappe,  Amy  his  wife  and  the  heirs  and 
assigns  of  the  said  Robert  of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  sometime 


43    EDWARD    III.  69 


13G0.  Membrane  24d — cont. 

of  Simon  Fraunceys  of  London  in  Kenyngton,  Ditton  and  Estmallyngg 
CO.  Kent  with  all  commodities  etc.  thereto  belonging.  Dated  London, 
8  February  43  Edward  IH. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  9  February. 

Membrane  33d. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Travers,  being  a  bond  to  Robert  Beleknappe  in 
40^  paj^ablc  at  Easter  next.     Dated  London,  8  February  43  Edward  IIL 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  9  February. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  bond,  upon  condition  that 
Robert  de  Beleknappe  and  Amy  his  wife,  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the 
said  Robert,  be  not  put  out  nor  impleaded  concerning  the  lands,  rents 
and  services  sometime  of  Simon  Fraunceis  of  London  in  Kenyngton, 
Ditton  and  Estmallynge  co.  Kent  or  any  parcel  thereof  by  Thomas  de 
Whitacre  now  over  sea  nor  by  his  assigns,  or  that  the  said  Thomas 
returning  to  England  shall  without  having  granted  his  estate  to  any 
man  make  them  a  sufficient  release  thereof  enrolled  in  chancery  so 
that  their  estate  shall  be  assured  against  the  said  Thomas  and  his 
assigns.     Dated  London,  the  year  and  day  above  mentioned.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  Robert  Beleknappe,  9  February. 

Feb.  IL         The  abbot  of  Neubo,  for  himself  and  the  convent,  to  Henry  de 
Westminster.  Codyngton  parson  of  Botelesford.      Recognisance  for  4d.,  to  be  levied 
in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical 
goods  in  Lincolnshire. 

Feb.  12.         Henrj'  Percehay  and  John  Bays  to  Robert  de  Teye  and  Robert  de 
Westminster.  Bures.     Recognisance  for  100  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  their  lands 
and  chattels  in  Somerset. 
Cancelled  on  'payment. 

Writing  of  John  son  of  Robert  Daysoule  of  Wendelburgh,  being  a 
quitclaim  to  Thomas  Perle  and  Isabel  his  wife,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  all  the  lands  which  they  the  said  Thomas  and  Isabel  hold  in  the 
towns  of  Eltham,  Bixle  and  Kidebroke  co.  Kent,  and  which  were 
of  Gilbert  de  Wendelburgh  uncle  of  the  said  John  or  of  Robert  de 
Braundeston  his  cousin.     Dated  Eltham,  10  February  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  11  February. 

Feb.  12.         Roger  de  Chflford  lord  of  Westmorland  to  Thomas  de  Bello  Campo 
Westminster,  earl  of  W'arrewyk  lord  of  Gower  and  marshal  of  England.     Recog- 
nisance for  1,000  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Westmorland. 

Cancelled  on  paijment,  acknowledged  by  Thomas  de  Bello  Campo  son 
of  the  said  earl  and  Richard  de  Piryton,  his  executors. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Thomas  de  Beauchamp  earl  of  ^\' arewyk 
lord  of  Gower  and  marshal  of  England  and  Sir  Roger  de  Clifford  lord 
of  Westmorland,  being  a  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance, 
upon  condition  that  Sir  Roger,  his  heirs,  assigns  or  executors  shall  pay 
to  Sir  John  de  Clynton,  Sir  Fulk  de  Bermyngeham  knights  and  Sir 
Thomas  Hakelut  clerk  or  one  of  them  700  marks  at  the  terms  contained 
in  other  indentures  made  between  the  said  earl  and  Sir  Roger  and 


70  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1300.  Membrane  33d — cant. 

the  said  knif^hts  and  clerk,  for  payment  \vliereof  tlie  said  earl  has 
given  a  joint  bond  with  Sir  Roger.  Dated  Westminster,  15  February 
43  Edward  IIL     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  earl,  15  February. 

Writing  of  Godfrey  Cyphrewast,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to 
William  de  Mulsho  clerk,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Chesham 
CO.  Bukingham  as  well  in  demesnes  as  in  lordships,  reversions,  messuages, 
lands,  meadows,  pastures,  woods,  waters,  knights'  fees,  freeholders 
and  neifs  and  all  that  goes  with  them,  liberties,  free  customs,  com- 
modities etc.  thereto  belonging.  Witnesses  :  Peter  Ber\\ose,  Roger 
de  Puttenham,  Gerard  de  Braybroke  knights,  Henry  Brusele,  John 
Arderne,  Richard  de  Chesham,  John  atte  Broke.  Dated  Chesham, 
Sunday  after  St.  Scolastica  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  15  February. 

Writing  of  Andrew  son  of  Roger  Gerveys,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  William  de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  of  all  lands,  rents  and  services,  neifs  and  all  that  goes  with 
them  and  reversions  whatsoever  in  Roppele,  Sutton,  Old  Alresford, 
New  Alresford,  Medestede,  Byketon,  \\'ynhale  and  the  suburb  of 
Winchester  or  elsewhere  in  the  county  of  Suthampton  which 
descended  to  him  the  said  Andrew  by  inheritance  or  otherwise,  saving 
a  yearly  rent  of  20/.  for  his  own  life,  as  contained  in  an  indenture  made 
between  the  said  bishop  and  himself,  saving  also  20/.  to  him  thereby 
reserved  for  one  month's  default  of  payment  of  the  said  rent  at  any 
term.  Witnesses  :  Robert  de  Thorp,  John  Knyvet  justices  of  the 
king,  David  de  Wollore  clerk,  Roger  de  Kirketon,  Edmund  de 
Chelreye,  Robert  Beleknappe  the  king's  Serjeants.  Dated  Lambhethe, 
14  February  43  Edward  IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  17  February. 

Feb.  20.  Robert  de  Assheton  knight,  Henry  de  Snayth  clerk  and   Roger  de 

Westminster.  Harleston  to  John  Mareschall  chaplain,  John  de  Bretteby  chaplain, 

Edmund    Lawrence   and    John  de  Wyndesore.     Joint    and    several 

recognisance  for  6,000/.,  to   be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their 

lands  and  chattels  in  Cambridgeshire. 

Cancelled  on  'payment,  acknowledged  by  John  de  Bretteby . 

Membrane  32d. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  John  ^Valkeleyn  prior  of  Swaveseye 
CO.  Cantebrigge  and  Amory  de  Shirlond  parson  of  Bokesworth,  being 
a  lease  for  three  years  of  the  priory  and  of  tlfe  said  prior's  manor 
of  Driedrayton,  with  all  lands,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  rents, 
fisheries,  services  of  free  men  and  neifs,  tithes  of  corn,  pensions, 
portions,  emoluments  and  profits  whatsoever  thereto  pertaining,  render- 
ing yearly  100/.  at  Swaveseye  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions. 
The  lessee  shall  during  that  term  maintain  the  houses,  walls  and  other 
buildings  to  the  priory  pertaining,  as  in  roofing  of  houses  and  repair 
of  walls,  hedges  and  enclosures,  and  the  lessor  shall  bear  all  charges 
in  pensions,  annuities  and  portions,  in  tenths,  fifteenths  or  other 
quotas  or  impositions  thereon  imposed  or  granted  by  the  clergy  to 
the  pope  or  by  the  commons  to  the  king  or  hereafter  to  be  so  granted, 
contenting  them  of  his  own  money  by  himself,  his  attorneys  or  deputies 


43  EDWARD  ill.  71 


1360.  Membrane  32d—cont. 

without  cliargc  of  the  lessee,  and  if  any  monk  or  monks  sliall  \\itliin  the 
said  term  be  sent  to  the  said  piiory  by  the  abbot  and  convent  of  tlie 
superior  house  to  abide  as  fellows  of  the  said  prior,  his  attorneys  or 
deputies  shall  of  the  farm  aforesaid  bear  their  costs  so  that  the  lessee  shall 
not  be  therewith  charged.  Covenant  by  the  lessee,  and  bond  in  lOOl., 
in  case  the  said  farm  be  not  paid  within  a  quinzaine  after  any  term 
by  his  default ;  and  the  lessor  names  William  de  Gamelyngeye  vicar 
of  Swaveseye  and  Richard  de  Dounham  parson  of  Little  Lawfare  his 
attorneys  or  deputies  as  well  to  receive  the  said  farm  and  give 
acquittance  for  the  same  as  to  fulfil  all  other  the  premises  on  his  behalf. 
The  lessee  shall  at  the  end  of  his  term  leave  as  many  acres  of  land 
fallowed,  reploughed  (rebinatas)  and  manured  as  he  took  over  at  the 
beginning  thereof,  as  appears  by  another  indenture  between  the 
parties,  nor  may  he  let  the  site  of  the  priory  to  farm  to  any  other,  nor 
make  any  waste.  Covenant  that  if  during  the  said  term  the  lessor 
be  removed  or  promoted  to  any  other  benefice  or  office  (gradum),  or 
if  for  other  just  cause  the  lessee  may  not  wholly  enjoy  the  same,  he 
shall  have  allowance  in  paj'ment  of  his  said  farm  ;  and  bond  for 
payment  of  lOOL  at  Bokesworth  \vithin  one  month  if  he  have  not 
such  allowance,  or  be  cast  out  of  his  term  by  default  of  the  said  prior, 
his  attorneys  or  executors  ;  and  if  at  the  end  of  tlie  said  term  the 
priory  be  further  demised  to  farm,  the  lessee  sliall  have  the  preference 
if  he  will  give  as  much  as  others.  The  prior  has  this  day  delivered 
and  left  in  the  hands  of  his  said  attorneys  or  one  of  them  a  seal  for 
giving  acquittance  in  h.is  name  for  payments  received.  Witnesses  : 
Nicholas  de  Styuecle,  John  de  Wauton,  Robert  Waryn,  Roger  de 
Herlaston,  Thomas  DockjTig.  Dated  Swaveseye,  Friday  after  the 
Purification  43  Edward  III. 

Memorayidum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  12  February. 

Feb.  13.         William  de  Haulay  the  younger  to  David  de  Wollore  and  IVIichael 
Westminster,  de  Ravendale  clerks.     Recognisance  for  20  marks,   to  be  levied,  in 
default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Lincolnshire. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  William 
shall  pay  10  marks  at  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next. 
Cancelled  on  ^payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Michael. 

Writing  of  Robert  Brabume,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to 
Reynold  de  Cobeham  parson  of  Coulyng,  Sir  Edmund  Stanlake  chap- 
lain, John  de  Idelegh  and  Richard  de  Idelegh,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  a  marsh  called  Shirlandesmerssh  in  the  parish  of  Eastcoulyng  co. 
Kent.  ^Vitnesses  :  Sir  Thomas  de  Lodelowe,  Su-  Thomas  de  Hampton 
knights,  John  Mortymer,  John  Ram  of  Clyve,  Roger  de  Delham, 
Richard  Hanekyn,  Thomas  Hemery,  John  Prikke.  Dated  Coulyng, 
Tuesday  the  eve  of  All  Saints  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  15  February  this  year. 

Writing  of  Robert  Brabourne,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to 
Sir  John  de  Cobeham  lord  of  Cobeham,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  12  acres 
6f  '  daywerc  '  of  land  lying  in  a  field  called  Suthland  in  the  town  of 
Frendisbury  co.  Kent.  ^^  itnesses  :  John  Mortymer,  John  Ram  of 
Clyve,  Roger  de  Delham,  Richard  Hanekyn,  Nicholas  de  Frendesbury, 
Adam  Marchal,  John  Bakere  clerk.     Dated  {as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   15  February  this  year. 


72  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


13(59,  Membrane  32d — cont. 

Writing  of  Jolin  Michel  citizen  and  vintner  of  London,  being  a 
quitclaim  to  Sir  Reynold  de  Cobeliani  parson  of  Coulyng,  Sir  Edmund 
Stanlake  chaplain,  John  de  Idelcgh  and  Richard  de  Idelegh  of  Shir- 
landes  merssh  in  the  parish  of  Eastcoulyng  co.  Kent.  Witnesses  : 
Sir  Thomas  de  Lodelowe,  Sir  Thomas  de  Hampton  knights,  John 
Mortymer,  John  Ram  of  Clyve,  Roger  de  Delliam,  Richard  Hanekyn, 
Thomas  Hemery,  John  Prykke.     Dated  {as  above). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  15  February  this  year. 

Feb.  21.  Thomas  de  Sancto  Albano  of  Luton  to  Bernard  Brokas  knight  and 

Westminster.  John  parson  of  Overwalop.     Recognisance  for  500/.,  to  be  levied,  in 
default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Kent. 

W^riting  of  Dame  Ellen,  relict  and  executrix  of  William  de  Stratton 
knight,  being  a  receipt  and  acquittance  to  John  de  Nowers  knight 
for  20  marks,  in  full  of  80  marks  wlierein  the  said  John  was  bound 
to  her  said  husband  by  a  recognisance  made  in  chancery.  Dated 
Baldyndon,  Monday  after  the  Purification  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  February. 

Membrane  31rf, 

Charter  of  Robert  Tibtot  lord  of  Langare,  giving  with  warranty  to 
Jolin  Haukyn  the  king's  serjeant  at  arms,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the 
manor  of  Inchecoigne  and  YougliuU,  the  share  of  the  advowson  of 
the  church  thereof  to  him  the  said  Robert  pertaining,  and  all  other 
his  lands,  reversions,  rents  and  services  in  Ireland.  Dated  14  February, 
43  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Robert  Tibtot  lord  of  Langare,  being  a  letter  of  attorney 
to  John  Flete,  John  Drule  and  William  Horewe^t  to  deliver  to  John 
Haukyn  the  king's  Serjeant  at  arms,  his  attorneys  or  deputies,  seisin  of 
the  manor  of  Inchecoigne  and  Youghull,  the  share  of  the  church 
thereof  to  the  said  Robert  pertaining,  and  of  all  other  his  lands,  rever- 
sions, rents  and  services  in  Irlond,  according  to  the  foregoing  charter 
and  to  an  indenture  thereupon  made  concerning  the  condition  of  the 
warranty  therein  contained.  Dated  14  February  43  Edward  III. 
French. 

Writing  of  Robert  Tybtot  lord  of  Langare,  being  a  grant  and  quit- 
claim with  warranty  to  John  Haukyn  the  king's  serjeant  at  arms, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Inchecoigne  and  Youghhull,  the 
share  of  the  church  therein  to  him  the  said  Robert  pertaining,  and 
all  other  liis  lands,  reversions,  rents  and  services  in  Ireland,  which 
the  said  John  now  holds  by  his  demise  for  a  term  of  20  years.  Dated 
14  February,  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writings  in  the  chancery  at  London,  3  March. 

Writing  indented  of  John  Haukyn  the  king's  serjeant  at  arms, 
reciting  a  gift  Avith  warranty  to  him  made  by  Sir  Robert  de  Tibtot 
lord  of  Langare  by  his  charter  of  his  manor  in  Inchecoigne  and 
Youghull,  the  share  to  him  pertaining  of  the  advowson  of  the  church 
therein,  and  all  his  lands,  reversions,  rents  and  services  in  Ireland,  and 
a  release   thereof  made  by    another  deed  of  the  said  Robert  with 


43    EDWARD    III.  73 


1369.  Membrane  31rf — cont. 

warranty  to  the  said  John,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  \\hich  deeds  are 
enrolled  in  the  chancery  of  England,  and  hereby  granting  that,  if  the 
premises  or  pan-el  thereof  be  lost  or  destroyed  by  war  of  tlie  king's 
enemies  in  Ireland,  Sir  Robert  shall  not  be  bound  to  warranty  by  the 
said  deeds  or  any  of  them  ;  and  the  said  Robert  grants  that  the  same 
shall  in  all  other  points  remain  in  force.  Dated  London,  14  February 
43  Edward  III.     French. 

Memoraiulum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  at  London, 
3  March. 

Writing  of  Robert  Tibtot  lord  of  Langare,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  Roger  Beler  knight,  Gervase  de  Clifton  knight,  Robert 
Deyncourt  knight,  John  de  Loudham  knight,  John  de  Wittclhury, 
William  de  Burgh,  Robert  Aukes  parson  of  Edmerethorp,  William 
Hemyng  parson  of  Castelcombe  and  William  Purle  of  the  manors 
and  advowsons  of  Barwe  co.  Suffolk  and  Hameldon  co.  Bukingham,  the 
manor  of  Oxenden,  co.  Gloucester,  the  lands  whatsoever  in  Lymstrete 
London,  and  the  reversions  of  the  manor  of  Sonyngdon  held  for 
life  by  John  de  Sonyngdon  clerk,  of  the  manor  of  Sibton  co.  Kent 
held  for  life  by  Roger  Digge.  and  of  the  lands  of  all  the  said  Robert's 
tenants  in  Marketesoverton.  ^Vitnesses  :  John  filz  William  knight, 
Robert  de  Morton,  Hugli  de  Martel,  Robert  Martel,  John  de  Sonyngdon 
clerk.     Dated  Langare,  20  February  43  Edward  IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at   London,   3  March. 

Charter  of  John  son  of  John  de  Eylesford  knight  (militis)  giving 
with  warranty  to  Sir  AVilliam  Latymer  knight  lord  of  Danby,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  one  acre  of  land  in  the  town  of  Burton  co.  Xorliampton 
and  tlie  advowson  of  the  church  to  the  said  acre  pertaining.  Witnesses  : 
Sir  John  Knyvet  knight  the  king's  justice,  Simon  Ward,  Richard 
Wodewjdle,  John  Caruell,  Jolm  de  Wolaston.  Dated  Eston,  the  last 
day  of  February  43  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  John  son  of  John  de  Eylesford  knight,  being  a  letter  of 
attorney  to  Henrj'  de  Meddeburne  clerk  and  John  Caruell  to  give 
Sir  William  de  Latymer  lord  of  Danb}-  seisin  of  one  acre  of  land  in 
the  town  of  Burton  co.  Xorhanipton  and  the  advo^^'Son  of  the  church 
thereof  to  the  said  acre  pertaining,  according  to  a  charter  by  him 
the  said  John  made.     Dated  (as  the  last).     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing  at  ^Vestminste^,  5  3Iarch. 

Writing  of  \\"illiam  Caperoun,  son  and  heii'  of  John  Caperoun  of 
Est  Reed,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Thomas  de  Haselden, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Stepil  ^lordon  which  fell  to  him 
the  said  William  after  the  death  of  John  Brescy  of  Stepil  Mordon, 
namely  in  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  homages,  wards,  reliefs, 
escheats,  rents,  services,  suits  of  freeholders  and  neifs  and  all  that 
goes  with  them,  perquisites  of  men,  courts  and  views,  rights  and 
liberties,  with  the  reversions  of  the  lands  of  tenants  thereto  belonging. 
Dated  London,  Tuesday  before  St.  Gregory  the  Pope  43  Edward  III- 

Memoramlum  of  acknowledgment  at  London.  6  March. 


74 


CALENDAR    OF   fXOSE    ROLLS. 


1360. 


Mi:MIiIiA.\K  30r/. 


Writing  of  John  son  of  John  Chanibeileyn  of  Great  Gatesden, 
giving  with  warranty  to  John  Coiirtoys  of  Wyniyngton,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  G  marks  a  year  jmyable  by  Alan  Toucestre,  and  the  reversion 
of  the  manor  of  Southalle  in  Gatesden  aforesaid,  held  by  the  said 
Alan  for  life  and  for  one  year  longer  by  the  serviee  aforesaid  by  gi-ant 
of  the  said  John  son  of  John  with  reversion  to  him,  also  a  water  mill 
ealled  Okmill  in  Gatesden  aforesaid,  with  the  pond,  watereourse  etc. 
Witnesses  :  Jolin  de  la  Hay  knight,  ^^'illiam  de  \\'otton,  Richard  de 
Segham,  Richard  atte  Dene,  Bartliolomew  Blaket,  Xicliolas  son  of 
Hugh.     Dated  Gatesden  aforesaid,   1  June  42  Edward  IIL 

Writing  of  John  sim  of  John  riianiberlevTi  of  Great  Gatesden,  being 
a  quitclaim  witli  warranty  to  John  Courteys  of  Wymyngton,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  of  a  rent  of  6  marks  yearly  to  be  taken  of  the  manor  of 
Southalle  in  Gatesden  aforesaid  held  for  life  and  for  one  year  after 
by  Alan  Toucestre,  with  the  revcr.'-ion  of  the  said  manor,  and  of 
Okmill  in  Gatesden  aforesaid.  Dated  London,  H  February,  43 
Edward  IIL 

Mcmoran(lu7n  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings  at 
^^'estminster,  17  February  this  year. 

Feb.  20.  Henry  de  Kynggeston  to  William  de  Mordon.     Recognisance  for 

Westminster.  20/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Surrey. 

Feb.  22.  Lambert  de  ^Vcston  kniglit  to  Adam  Fraunceys,  William  Halden, 

Westminster.  John  Oskyn  and  John  Ussher  citizens  of  London.     Recognisance  for 
800  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Lincolnshire. 

Feb.  24.         John  atte  Lane  of  Caleys  to  Edward  prince  of  Aquitaine  and  Wales. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  40/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  the  town  of  Calais. 

Charter  of  AValter  Pavely,  knight,  William  Steel  and  William  de 
Wyndesore  clerks,  and  John  de  Gildesburgh,  granting  to  John  de 
Delves  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  their  manors  of  Braundon  co. 
Warrewyk  and  Crakemerssh  co.  Stafford,  with  the  knights'  fees, 
rents  and  services  of  all  tenants  thereto  belonging.  Witnesses  : 
John  de  Clynton,  Thomas  de  Sutton  knights,  William  de  Catesby, 
John  de  Catesby,  Richard  de  Stoke  of  Coventre.  Dated  Braundon, 
Tuesday  after  St.  Matthias  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandxim   of   acknowledgment,   1  Marcli. 


Charter  of  John  de  Drayton  and  Agnes  Astwyk  his  wife,  daughter 
and  heir  of  John  Astwyk  the  younger  of  Eston  by  Rokyngham  co, 
Leycestre,  giving  with  warranty  to  Sir  Philip  de  Popham  knight,  his 
heirs  and  assigns,  all  theu"  estate  in  the  manor  of  Dummere  co.  Hamp- 
ton which  they  have  bj'^  grant  of  John  Astwyk  the  elder,  rendering 
yearly  to  the  said  Jolin  the  elder  during  his  life  4/.,  namely  at  Michael- 
mas and  Easter  by  even  portions,  and  to  the  chief  lords  the  services 
thereof  due,  the  first  payment  to  begin  at  Michaelmas  next,  the 
reversion  of  which  manor  after  the  death  of  John  Astwyk  the  elder 
Avith  the  advowson  of  Dummere  ■  church  ought  to  descend  by 
inheritance  to  the  said  Agnes  ;   giving  also  with  warranty  to  the  said 


1369. 


43  EDWARD  III. 


Membrane  30rf — cont. 


Philip,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  for  a  sum  of  money  in  hand  paid,  the 
reversion  and  advowson  aforesaid.  Dated  at  their  manor  of  Dummere, 
20  February  43  Edward  II L. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  March. 

March  1.         John  Delves    knight  to  Peter  de  Veel  knight.     Recognisance  for 
Wostminstor.  550/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Staffordshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 


March  1.         John  de  Delves  knight  to  Richard  dc  Chaddesle  clerk. 
Westminster,  for  2,000  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Staffordshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


Recognisance 


March  1.         John  de  Delves   knight   to   Waiter  Pavely   knight,   William  Steel 
Westminster,  clerk,    William    de    Wyndesore    clerk    and    John     de     Gildesburgh. 
Recognisance  for  1,000  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Staffordshire. 
Cancelled  on  payinent,  acknowledged  by  John  de  Gildesburgh. 

Writing  of  John  son  of  John  de  Xowers  of  Gothurst  co.  Buckingham, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  the  king,  Sir  Ingelram  Coucy  earl 
of  Bedeford  and  the  lady  Isabel  his  wife  the  king's  daughter,  and  to  the 
king's  heirs,  of  all  manors,  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Salden, 
Murreslee,  Yiftele,  Kymbell,  W^eston  Turville,  Wendovere,  Wycombe, 
Great  Horwode,  Little  Horwode,  Hoggeston,  Bechehampton,  Ewelle 
and  Luton.  Witnesses  :  W.  bishop  of  Winchester,  J.  bishop  of  Ely 
Sir  William  Latymer,  Sir  Robert  de  Thorp,  Sir  John  Knyvet,  Sir  Jolin 
Delves,  Sir  William  Croyser  knights.  Dated  Westminster  palace^ 
1  March  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  London,  3  March.  .   . 


Mem  BRA  X?:  29d. 

Writing  of  John  son  of  Jolm  de  Boulewas  knight  (militis),  granting 
with  warranty  to  Hugh  de  Monyton,  Thomas  de  Bourghope,  John 
de  Stretton  and  Roger  Partrich,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  the  reversion 
of  the  manor  of  Brunfeld  co.  Hereford,  held  for  hfe  of  his  heritage  by 
ParneU  who  A\"as  wife  of  Jolin  de  Boulewas  knight  with  reversion  to 
the  said  John  the  son  ;  also  the  reversion  of  the  manor  of  Boulewas, 
with  the  advowson  of  Boulewas  thereto  belonging,  and  of  the  manor 
of  Isenbrugge  co.  Salop,  now  held  by  John  de  Eylesford  knight  by 
virtue  of  the  execution  of  a  statute  merchant  of  1,000/.  with  reversion 
to  the  said  John  the  son  and  his  heirs  after  the  determination  of  that 
estate  and  after  the  levy  of  the  said  sum  with  damages  and  costs. 
Witnesses  :  Richard  de  la  Bere,  John  de  Burley,  John  de  Lauton 
knights,  John  de  Strete,  Phihp  Holgot.  Dated  Tullynton,  17  March 
43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Farnham 
castle  CO.  Surrey,  20  March. 

Memorandum  that  John  de  Eylesford,  being  then  present  as  tenant 
of  the  manor  and  aidvowson  of  Boulewas  and  of  the  manor  of  Isen- 
brugge as  aforesaid,  attorned  tenant  to  Roger  Patrich  as  well  in 
his  own  name  as  in  the  name  of  the  said  Hugh,  Thomas  and  John 
de  Stretton,  giving  him  \d.  in  name  of  such  attornment. 


76  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS 


1369.  Mernfmine  29rf — cont. 

Charter  of  John  son  of  John  de  Boulewas  knight  {militia),  giving 
with  warranty  to  Huj^h  do  Monyton.  Tliomas  de  Burghope,  John  de 
Stretton  and  Roger  Partricli,  their  heirs  .and  assigns,  his  manor  of 
Boulewas  witli  the  advowson  of  Boulewas  thereto  belonging  and 
liis  manor  of  Isenbnigge.  Witnesses  :  Jolm  de  Burleye,  Richard  de 
la  Bere,  John  de  Lauton  knights,  Jolm  de  Strete,  Philip  Holgot. 
Dated  Tullynton,  18  March  43  Edward  IIL 

Writing  of  John  son  of  John  de  Boulewas  knight,  being  a  letter  of 
attorney  to  John  de  Strete,  John  vicar  of  Eye  and  William  de  Barton 
to  deliver  to  Hugh  de  Monyton,  Thomas  de  Burghope,  Jankyn  de 
Stretton  and  Roger  Partrich,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  seisin  of  the 
manor  and  advowson  of  Boulewas  and  the  manor  of  Isenbrugge, 
according  to  the  charter  of  him  the  said  John  son  of  John.  Dated 
{a^  the  last).     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing  (as  above). 

Charter  of  Richard  de  Apelderham  parson  of  Tangemere,  giving 
with  warranty  to  \\'illiam  de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  all  his  lands,  rents  and  tenements  called  la  Setene  and 
Stapele  in  Pageham  co.  Sussex,  with  the  services  of  tenants  free  and 
neif,  reversions,  escheats,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  meadows,  pastures, 
Avoods,  suits  of  court,  liberties  etc.  Witnesses  :  William  Tauk,  Thomas 
atte  More,  Thomas  de  Hunston,  William  Raketon,  Ralph  Lette, 
John  atte  Vanne.  Dated  Pageham,  the  feast  of  the  Annunciation 
43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Farnham  castle,  26  March. 

March  19.        William  Gamboun  is  sent  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  St.  Oswald 

Rotherhithe.  Xostell,  to  take  such  maintenance  in  that  house  for  life  as  John  Styrop 

deceased  had  at  the  king's  request.  By  p.s.     [27786.] 

Charter  of  William  Honybrygge,  giving  with  warranty  to  Roger 
Dore,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  all  his  lands,  rents,  services  of  tenants  free 
and  neif  and  all  that  goes  with  such  "neif  s,  woods,  meadows,  feedings, 
pastures,  wards,  marriages,  escheats,  heriots  etc.  in  Knyghtone  by 
Dorchestre  co.  Dorset.  Witnesses  :  Lawrence  de  Sancto  Martino, 
Robert  Martyn  knights,  Hugh  Tyrell,  Adam  atte  More,  Roger 
Manvngford,  John  ^lautravers.  Dated  Knvghtone,  1  April  43 
Edward  IIL 

Writing  of  William  Honybrigge,  being  a  letter  of  attorney  to  William 
Drury  and  Thomas  Sexpen  to  put  Roger  Doie  in  seisin  of  all  the  lands 
etc.  which  he  has  acquired  of  the  said  A\'ilUam  Honybrigge  in 
Knyghtone  by  Dorchestre  co.  Dorset,  as  in  a  charter  of  the  said 
William  appears.     Dated  Knyghtone  by  Dorchestre,  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing  at  Farnham  castle,  1  April. 

Charter  of  John  Nowers  and  Maud  his  wife,  giving  with  -vAarranty 
to  the  king,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the  estate  which  at  this  date  they 
have  in  the  manors  and  advowsons  of  Gothurst  and  Stokegoldyngton 
CO.  Bukingham  and  in  the  manor  of  Chestre  upon  the  Water  co. 
Korhampton,   with   the   said   manors   and   advowsons   and   all    their 


43    f^DWARl)    Til. 


13()9.  Membrane  29(1— cont. 

liberties  etc.  Witnesses  :  Sir  I^evnokl  de  (riey  of  Rutliyn,  Sir  NVilliam 
Latyiner  of  l);inbv.  Sir  William  ("rovser.  Sir  Jolin  clc  Aylesbury, 
Sir  Jolm  Pavelee  knights.  John  do  'riryngham,  Peter  de  Salford.  Dated 
Gotliurst,  Wednesday  after  Palm  Sunday,  namely  28  March  43 
Edward  III. 

Charter  of  John  Xowers  and  >raud  his  wife,  f^iving  with  Avarranty 
to  the  king,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the  manors  antl  advowsons  of 
Gothurst  and  Stokegoldyngton  co.  Bukingham  and  the  manor  of 
Chestre  upon  the  Water  eo.  Xorhami)ton,  witti  tlie  knights'  fees,  parks, 
woods,  warrens,  chaces.  waters,  feedings,  pastures,  moors,  turbaries, 
fisheries,  fish  ponds,  ponds,  mills,  rents,  .services  of  tenants  free  and 
neif,  liberties,  royalty,  customs  etc.  to  the  said  manors  belonging. 
Witnesses  and  date  {(is  the  Uint). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charters  by 
John  Nowers  at  Farnham  castle,  30  March. 

Mcmornvdum  tliat  on  15  May  this  year  these  two  charters,  with  two 
tines  levied  of  the  tenements  therein  contained  between  the  king  and 
the  parties  above  named,  were  in  chancery  in  the  presence  of  Sir  John 
Knyvet  the  chief  justice  delivered  by  David  de  Wollore  keeper  of  the 
rolls  of  chancery  to  Robert  de  Derby  one  of  the  cliamberlains  of 
the  exchequer  to  be  kept  in  the  treasury. 

Mi:  Mini  ASK    28rf. 

Feb.  12.  To  Pa[t]riek  de  Langedale.     Order  not  to  meddle  henceforward  in 

Westminster,  the  execution  of  the  king's  late  commission  to  him  and  John  Walsshe, 
appointing  them  in  the  king's  name  to  ])rosecute  the  business  of 
inqui.sitions  before  William  de  Fyncheden  and  his  fellows,  the  king's 
justices  for  making  inquisition  concerning  divers  felonies,  trespasses 
and  evildoings  in  Yorkshire  and  Lincolnshire,  to  challenge  jurors 
suspect  in  that  behalf,  and  to  do  other  things  needful  for  the  king's 
adyantage  :  as  for  particular  causes  laid  before  the  king  and  council  he 
has  removed  the  said  Paft]rick  from  that  office.  By  C. 

Writing  of  Edmund  earl  of  Cantebrigge  the  king's  son,  granting 
to  the  king,  his  heirs,  executors  and  assigns,  all  his  castles,  manors, 
lands,  rents  etc.  in  England  with  tlie  knights'  fees,  adyowsons  of 
abbeys,  priories,  hospitals,  churches  and  chapels,  the  forests,  parks, 
chaces,  warrens,  wards,  marriages,  seryices  of  tenants  free  and  neif, 
fisheries,  turbaries,  moors,  meadows,  pastures,  liberties,  royalties  etc. 
to  the  same  belonging,  to  hold  imtil  2,000  marks  wherein  the  said 
earl  is  bound  to  the  king  by  way  of  prest  be  of  the  issues  thereof  levied 
and  paid  to  the  king's  use.  Dated  Westminster,  6  March  43  Edward  III. 
French. 

Writing  of  Edmund  earl  of  Cantebrigge  the  king's  son,  being  a 
letter  of  intendence  addressed  to  all  stewards,  farmers,  bailiffs, 
receiyers,  foresters,  parkers,  feudaries  and  ministers  of  all  his  castles, 
manors,  lands,  forests,  parks,  chaces  and  warrens  in  England,  reciting 
the  foregoing  grant,  and  directing  them  accordingly  to  deliver  seisin 
of  the  premises  to  the  king  or  his  deputies,  and  to  be  intendant  to 
the  king  as  to  the  said  earl  b.ad  tlic  tame  remained  in  his  hand.  Dated 
[as  the  last).     French. 


78  CALEXBAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1860.  Memhrane  2M—co7it. 

Writing  of  Edmund  oarl  of  Cantebrigge  the  king's  son,  being  a  like 
letter  of  intendance  addressed  to  all  tenants  of  liis  castles,  manors, 
lands,  rents  etc.  in  England,  directing  them  to  answer  henceforth  to 
the  king  for  the  services  due  to  the  said  earl.  Dated  (as  the  last). 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings  made 
at  Westminster,  6  March,  before  William  de  Wykeham  bishop  of 
Winchester  the  chancellor. 

March  17.        Tliomas    Hungcrford     to     Bartholomew     de     Burgherssh     knight. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  1,000L  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Wiltesir. 

Cancelled  on  'payment,  acknowledged  by  Waller  Pavely  knight  and 
John  de  Goldesbnrgh  execufors  of  the  said  Bariholomexo. 

March  20.        Brother  Nicholas  de  Dovorre  master  of  the  hospital  of  Burton  St. 
Westminster.  Lazarus  to  Tliomas  de  Chosele  and  Robert  de  Colston.      Recognisance 
for  100/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical 
goods  in  Leycestershire. 

March  20.  John  de  Eylesford  knight  to  Richard  de  Ravensere  clerk.  Recog- 
Westminster.  nisance  for  100/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Salop. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  John 
pay  50/.  at  Whitsuntide  next. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

March  22.        Henry  Whyssh  of  Sussex  to  Nicholas  de  KaervVent  clerk.     Recog 
Westminster,  nisance  for  40/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Surrey  and  Sussex. 

March  26.  To  tlie  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  tjie  exchequer.  Order  this  time 
Westminster,  of  the  king's  favour  to  receive,  instead  of  Peter  de  Brugges  sherif?  of 
Suthampton,  John  Sandford  and  Roger  Colrithe,  or  one  of  them  if 
both  may  not  be  there,  whom  the  said  sheriff  has  before  the  king  in 
chancery  appointed  his  attorneys,  to  make  his  proffer  at  the  exchequer 
on  the  morrow  of  the  Close  of  Easter  next,  not  troubling  the  said  sheriff 
for  his  absence  on  that  day  ;  as  he  is  so  engaged  upon  certain  business 
of  the  king  Avherewith  the  king  has  specially  charged  him  that  he 
may  not  come  in  person  to  the  exchequer  as  usual  on  that  day.  By  K. 
Walter  de  Haywode  sheriff  of  Wiltesir  has  the  like  Avrit  under  the 
names  of  John  Sandford  and  John  Waryn. 

April  4.  To  the  sheriff  of  Leycester.     Order  to  stay  until  further  order  the 

Westminster,  exigents  against  Richard  de  Vernoun  knight,  Thomas  de  Arderne 
knight,  Nicholas  de  Stafford  knight,  Richard  de  Ruggeley  and  Thomas 
Cloune,  and  the  publication  of  outlawry  against  them  by  colour  of  any 
writs  to  him  addressed  by  Wilham  de  Ferrariis  and  his  fellows  guardians 
of  the  peace  and  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  that  county  or  by 
any  of  them  ;  as  prayer  is  made  on  their  behalf  that  the  king  will  see 
them  haimless,  shewing  that  they  sailed  to  Aquitaine  in  the  company 
of  John  de  Hastynges  earl  of  Pembroke  there  to  abide  on  the  king's 
service  in  the  company  of  Edward  prince  of  Aquitaine  and  Wales,  as 
the  king  is  fully  informed  by  Walter  de  Amyas  his  clerk,  attorney 
general  of  the  said  earl,  and  that  they  are  indicted  before  the  said 
justices  for  certain  trespasses  and  evildoings,  and  by  process  before 
them  made  are  put  in  exigents  in  that  county  to  be  outlawed  for  that 


43  EDWARD  III.  79 


13G0.  Membrane  2Sd—€ont. 

thoy  came  not  before  them  to  an^iwer  the  king  toiifhin<i  tliose  indict- 
ments, as  tliey  mij^ht  not  do.  to  the  peril  of  their  life  ;  and  it  is  not 
lawful  that  any  man  while  abidin<^  in  foreign  parts  on  the  king's  service 
should  at  the  king's  suit  be  outlawed  by  any  such  process  within  the 
realm.  By  C. 

MEMliRANE  21  d. 

Writing  of  Hawise  sometime  wife  of  Peter  ^'anne.  granting  in  her 
widowhood  to  Richard  de  Gillyng  a  yearly  rent  of  10  marks  to  be 
taken  during  her  life  at  Michaclma.s,  Christmas.  Easter  and  Midsummer 
by  even  portions  of  all  her  lands  in  the  parish  of  St.  Anthony  London 
which  she  has  by  becpie^t  of  her  said  husband,  as  appears  by  his  will 
proved,  published  and  enrolled  in  the  husting  of  common  pleas  London 
holden  on  Monday  after  St.  Matthias  43  Edward  III,  and  power  to 
distrain  for  arreais  :  and  in  name  of  seisin  she  has  delivered  to  the 
said  Ricliaid  Id.  in  presence  of  Sir  Walter  rector  of  the  church  of 
St.  George  by  Byllinggesgate  London,  ^Villiam  Benyer,  John  de  Holand, 
John  Colman.  John  Anfeld,  John  Marchaunt  and  Thomas  de  Cotes  ; 
Simon   de   Mordon   being   mayor   of   the  city  of    London,   Adam  de 

Wymondham  and    Robert  Gurdlere  sheriffs,  John  de alderman 

of  the  ward.  Dated  F|i]idavstrete  London,  Friday  after  St.  Gregory 
the  Pope  43  Edward  III.       " 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  London, 
11  April. 

Charter  of  David  de  Wollore  clerk,  giving  \\\i\\  warranty  to  Adam 
de  Bondegate  perpetual  cha])lain  of  the  altar  of  St.  Mary  the 
Virgin  in  the  collegiate  clunch  of  Ripon  and  to  his  successors 
there  celebrating  divine  ser\ice  every  day,  to  increase  their  main- 
tenance, two  messuages  in  Hipon,  one  lying  in  the  '  Horsfaire  ' 
betA\een  a  messuage  of  Elizabeth  de  Snayth  and  a  messuage  of 
John  Pakhardy,  the  other  in  Kirkegate  between  a  messuage  sometime 
of  John  Frankissh  and  a  messuage  of  John  Gyliot.  ^^'itnesses  : 
Roger  de  Hewyk,  Simon  Warde.  Christopher  Maylloure  knights, 
John  de  Shyrwode.  Robert  de  Brounhous.  John  de  Topclyf,  John 
de  Tanfeld.  "  Dated  Ripon,  29  .Alarch  43  Edward  III. 

Charter  of  David  de  Wollore  clerk,  giving  with  warranty  to  the 
chapter  of  the  collegiate  church  of  Ripon.  towards  the  maintenance 
of  the  fabric  thereof,  two  messuages  in  Ripon,  one  lying  in  Aunsgate 
by  a  toft  of  the  abbot  of  Fountains,  the  other  in  Staynbergate  by 
a  messuage  of  William  Lister  on  the  one  side  and  a  messuage  of 
WiHiam  Topclyf  on  the  other.  ^Vitnesses  :  Roger  de  Hewyk,  Simon 
Warde,  Christoplier  Maylloure  knights.  John  de  Shirwode,  Robert  de 
Brunhous,  John  de  Tanfeld,  William  de  Scotton.     Dated  {as  the  last). 

Charter  of  Thomas  son  of  Thomas  Drakelowe.  giving  \\  ith  warranty 
to  John  Ragon  knight  and  John  de  Merton  parson  of  Great  Brykhull, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  the  manor  of  Xapton  \\\t\\  all  liis  lands,  rents, 
services,  advowsons,  rights  and  reversions  in  Xapton  and  Weston. 
Witnesses  :  Thomas  de  Sutton  knight,  John  de  Verdoun  knight, 
William  de  Catesby,  John  de  Catesby,  William  atte  Hurne.  Dated 
Xapton,  Thursday  in  Easter  week  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Westminster,  18  April. 


80 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


18()<.).  Membrane  21d — cont. 

April  19.  Thomas  Oyrwy  of  Heivhithc  to  John  Hand  of  Dortcford  clerk  and 

Westminstor.  Nicholas    Baud    of    Staundon.     Kccoi'nisiincc    foi'    10    marks,    to    be 
levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Kent. 

April  20.         John   de   Seynlo    the  son  knight,  Nicholas  de  Berkle  knight  and 
Westminster.  Robert  Maunsel  of  London  'mercer  '   to  Fulk  de  Burrayncham  knight. 
Recognisance  for  200  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Gloucestershire  and 
Someiset. 


Mkmhiiaxi-:  26^. 

Writing  of  John  Charenchous,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to 
John  Beneyt  clerk,  David  parson  of  the  cl)urcii  of  St.  Rowald  Shaftes- 
bury, \\  illiam  parson  of  Sutton  Walrand,  John  Halewelle  chaplain, 
Walter  W'oxale,  David  Thurmound,  Richard  Clerc,  Henry  parson  of 
the  church  of  All  Saints  Shaftesbury  and  Robert  Beere,  their  heirs 
and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands  in  the  parish  of  St.  Lawrence  Shaftesbury 
whicli  John  de  Weston  and  Ralph  le  Kyng  of  Tarente  acquu-ed  of 
John  Cille  of  Shaftesbury.  Dated  Westminster,  19  April  43 
Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  April. 

Writing  of  Jolin  Charenchous.  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to 
Joan  abbess  of  Shaftesbury  and  the  convent  and  to  their  successors 
of  7  acres  of  land  in  Shaftesbury  Iving  in  Danielesfeld.  sometime  of 
John   Gille.   Dated   (as    the  laM).^ 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  April. 

April  24.         Fulk  Corbet  to  John  de  Delves  knight.     Recognisance  for  40Z.,  to 
Westminster,  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Salop. 

April  25.         William  Porkleye  to  John  duke  of  Lancastre.     Recognisance  for 
Westminster.  40/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Warwicksliire  and  Leycestershire. 

April  27.         Nicholas   Dye   of   Lodelowe   to   Hugh   Cheyne.     Recognisance   for 
Westminster.  40L,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Salop. 

April  26.         John  Floure  of  Charlbury  to  Nicholas  de  Spaigne  clerk.     Recog- 
Westminstor.  nisancc  for  14  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Oxfordshire. 

April  28.         Robert  Russel  of  AA'orcestershire  to  Walter  Huwet  knight.    Recog- 
Westminster.  nisance  for  60/. pay  able  b}'  instalments,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Worcestershire. 

April  29.         John  de  Estbury  the  elder  and  John  de  Estbury  the  younger  of 
Westminster.  Berkshire  to  John  Pecche  citizen  and  draper  of  London.     Joint  and 
several  recognisance  for  400/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Berkshire. 
Cancelled  on  'payment. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon 
condition  that  John  de  Estbury  the  elder  and  Jolm  de  Estbury  the 
younger  or  one  of  them  pay  to  John  Pecche  citizen  and  draper  of 
London  or  his  executors  in  tlie  church  of  St.  Paul  London  200/.,  namely 
100/.  in  the  octaves  of  Trinitj'  and  100/.  in  the  octaves  of  INIiehaelmas 
next.     Dated  London,  28  Apiil  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  in  the  cliancery  at 
London,  29  April. 


43    EDWARD    III.  81 


1369.  Membrane  26rf — cont. 

Cliarter  of  John  Peoolie  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  granting  to 
Nicholas  de  Taniworth  knight,  John  dc  Hlebury  (;lork,  Jolin  de 
Chetwode,  Robert  de  Chilton  chaplains  and  Xictholas  de  Braille  and  to 
the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  cliaplains,  his  manor  of  Chepyng 
Lanibonrne  witli  houses,  gardens,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  woods, 
knights'  fees,  homages,  rents  and  services  of  free  tenants  and  neifs, 
pleas,  perquisites  of  courts,  fairs,  the  market  and  hundred,  tolls, 
commodities,  liberties  and  customs  thereto  belonging  as  fully  as  he 
the  said  John  l*ecc]\c  had  the  same  by  grant  of  Thomas  de  Grandisono 
knight.  Witnesses  :  Thomas  Tirel,  Tliomas  Langford  knights,  John 
James,  John  Rothewell,  Thomas  Tcmese,  John  \Valdene,  Robert 
James,  John  de  Herdecote.      Dated  London,  27  April  43  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  John  Pecche  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  being  a  quit- 
claim to  Nicholas  de  Tamworth  knight,  John  de  Blebury  clerk,  John 
de  Chetwode,  Robert  de  Chilton  chaplains  and  Nicholas  de  Braille, 
and  to  the  lieirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  chaplains,  of  the  manor  of 
Chepynglambourne  late  of  Thomas  de  Grandisono  knight.  Witnesses  : 
Thomas  de  Langford,  Thomas  de  Besiles  knights,  John  de  Rothewell, 
John  de  Waldene,  John  Crook,  Geoffrey  de  Wegenholte.  Dated 
Estbury,  28  April  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandnm  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing  at  London,  29  April. 

April  30.         Fulk    de    Horwode    to    John   Delves   knight.       Recognisance   for 
Westminster.  896/.  lis.  Sd.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  Thomas  de  Bedenhale  and 
John  Scolehalle  executors  of  the  said  John  Delves. 

Memorandum  that  the  chancellor  with  his  own  hand  cancelled  this 
recognisance,  26  October  this  year. 

Indenture  of  accord  made  between  Sir  John  Boyvyle  and  Roger 
Perewychc,  in  presence  of  Richard  de  Ravensere  archdeacon  of 
Lincoln,  Master  William  de  Askeby  archdeacon  of  Norhampton,  Sir 
William  de  Fyncheden  the  king's  justice  and  Sir  Henry  Snayth  his  ward- 
rober.  in  regard  to  a  writ  of  ravishment  of  ward  concerning  Amy 
daughter  and  heir  of  Sir  Thomas  Mallesores,  and  a  writ  of  ejectment  of 
ward  concerning  the  manor  of  Lobenham  sued  by  the  said  Sir  John 
against  the  said  Roger,  witnessing  that  Roger  having  made  recompense  to 
Sir  John  for  the  said  ravisliment  and  ejectment,  and  Sir  John  to  the 
said  Roger  and  to  the  said  Amy  now  his  wife  for  waste  alleged  to 
have  been  by  him  made  in  the  said  manor  while  in  his  hand  in  name 
of  wardship,  Sir  John  releases  to  the  said  Roger  all  such  actions  as 
aforesaid  and  all  actions  by  reason  of  the  said  heir's  nonage,  or  actions 
of  trespass,  debt,  account,  covenant  and  arrears  of  rent  to  this  date, 
saving  always  to  him  and  his  heirs  the  seignory  and  services  to  them 
due  for  the  said  manor  ;  and  the  said  Roger,  for  himself  and  his  said  wife, 
releases  to  the  said  John  all  actions  for  waste,  trespass,  debt,  account 
and  covenant.  Dated  Westminster,  Saturday  after  St.  George  43 
Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  at  Westminster, 
28  April. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Grandissono  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  Jolin  Isle,  John  Idelegh,  Nicholas  Bakere  of  Pekham, 

cu  0 


82  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1369.  Membrane  2Gd — cont. 

Alan  de  Chelescombe,  Jolm  Bakere  of  Stanstede,  Ricliard  de  North- 
wych,  John   Henteleye  clerk  and  Geoilrey  Waldene,   their    heirs   and 
assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Kemesyng  and  la  Sele,  the  advowson  thereof 
excepted.     Dated  2  A\n'il  43  Edward  IIL 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   6  May. 

Membrane  25d. 

Writing  of  WiUiam  Stawell,  being  a  quitclaim  to  John  de  Foxlee 
knight,  John  l^lebury  clerk,  Adam  de  Hertyndon  clerk  and  Roger 
Dore,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  in 
Gatesden,  Ivynghoo  and  Edesburgh  cos.  Hertford,  Bedford  and 
Bukingham  lately  of  John  de  Gatesden  knight.  Witnesses  :  Henry 
Percehay,  Walter  Perlee,  Thomas  Austyn,  Michael  Skyllyng,  William 
Guldeford.  Dated  Saturday  before  St.  Philip  and  St.  James  43 
Edward  III. 

Writing  of  William  Stawell,  being  a  like  quitclaim  to  John  de  Foxle 
knight,  Jolm  Blebury  clerk,  Adam  Hertyndon  clerk  and  Roger  Dore. 
Witnesses  and  date  {as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings,  29  April. 

May  1.  Jolm  Brice  of  Little  Jememuth,  Thomas  Rose  of  Becles  and  Henry 

Westminster,  de  Jernemuth  of  Blundeston  to  Mary  de  Sancto  Paulo  countess  of 
Pembroke.  Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  200/.,  to  be  levied, 
in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Suffolk. 

Charter  of  Thomas  le  Ingleys  of  Newenham,  giving  with  warranty 
to  John  de  Qwernby  clerk  and  Edmund  Giffard,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
all  the  lands  in  Rutherfeld  Pipard  called  Coufold  and  Beresorchard 
sometime  of  Edmund  Waleys,  and  lands  called  Shergrovesfeld,  which 
lands  with  gardens,  woods,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  common  of 
pasture,  common  of  estover  of  the  wood,  hays,  hedges,  ditches  etc. 
thereto  belonging  were  sometime  held  by  Geoffrey  de  Alueton  in  his 
life  time.  Witnesses  :  Sir  John  de  Grey,  Sir  Thomas  de  Blount 
knights,  Edmund  Rose,  William  Catour  of  Redyng,  William  Wakeman, 
Thomas  Tours,  Robert  Padenhale.  Dated  Rutherfeld,  the  feast  of 
St.  Phihp  and  St.  James  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  May. 

Writing  of  John  Vyncent  '  mercere,'  being  a  receipt  and  acquittance 
to  Walter  de  Kelby  of  Lincoln  for  4L  to  him  due  by  bond.  Dated 
Lincoln,  20  March  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  6  May. 

May  6.  Katherine  who  was  wife  of  Reynold  de  Ferers  to  Robert  CruUe. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  40/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  her  lands 
and  chattels  in  Kent. 

Charter  of  Katherine  who  was  wife  of  Reynold  de  Ferers,  giving  with 
warranty  to  Martin  de  Ferers,  Thomas  Halsbury  and  Peter  Silverlok, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  her  messuages  and  lands  in  Milton,  Horswill, 
Sutton  and  Burlegh  and  elsewhere  in  Devon,  and  granting  them 
with  like  warranty  all  the  rents  and  services  of  Robert  Fairfot, 
1  Stephen  Bers,  Henry  Hyndeston,  Agnes  Smale,  Thomas  Rou  and  Joan 

liis  wife,   Stephen  Lakyng,   Walter  Dokham,   John  Tosere,   Robert 


43    EDWARD    III.  83 


1360.  Membrane  25<f — cont. 

Aishman,  Henry  Clerk  and  Idonea  his  wife,  John  l^orlc^h,  Richard 
('ri.sj)yn,  and  SU^phen  atte  Porcho  her  freeholders,  and  those  which 
John  (libha  and  Mabel  his  wife,  William  Fort,  John  Hunte,  Stephen 
atte  Porche,  Richard  Crispyn  and  Rofrei-  Ropa  used  to  pay  her  for  divers 
lands  held  of  her  in  severalty  for  their  lives  in  Milton  and  Horswill, 
together  with  the  reversions  of  those  tenements  when  they  shall  fall  in, 
and  all  other  rents  and  services  in  Devon  of  her  tenants  in  fee,  for 
life  and  for  a  term  of  years  with  the  reversions  whatsoever  to  her 
j)ertaining.  Witnesses  :  John  de  Chevereston,  William  de  Botreaux, 
John  de  Ferrers,  John  Daumarle  knights,  Thomas  de  Courtenay, 
Richard  Underliull,  Robert  Hull.  Dated  Milton,  Thursday  before 
St.  George  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  6  May. 

Charter  of  Thomas  de  Seynt  Manefu,  giving  with  warranty  to 
William  de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Wincliester,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  after 
the  end  of  a  term  of  40  years,  all  his  lands  in  the  town  of  Chirchokle, 
in  the  parish  of  Wotton  co.  Suthampton  and  the  hundred  of  Chittle, 
which  he  the  said  Thomas  by  writing  indented,  made  on  Friday  after 
Corpus  Christi  36  Edward  III,  demised  for  that  term  to  Philip  de 
Popham,  his  lieirs  and  assigns,  at  a  rent  of  6  marks  a  year  payable  at 
the  Exaltation  of  Holy  Cross  and  at  St.  Gregory  by  even  portions,  and 
giving  to  the  said  bishop  the  said  rent  until  the  term  aforesaid. 
Witnesses  :  Lawrence  Seint  Mart}^,  Bernard  Brocas,  Peter  de  Brugges, 
John  de  Waltham  clerk.     Dated  London,  4  May  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  G  May. 

May  6.  Thomas  Dastyn,  son  of  Walter  Dastyn  knight  {militis).  to  Walter 

Westminster.  Huwet  knight.  Recognisance  for  50/..  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Gloucestershire. 

May  8.  Geoffrey  Culpepir  to  John  Shank,  Jordan  de  Bladyndon,   Robert 

Westminster.  Bamun,  John  Overey,  Thomas  Swere,  Geoffrey  atte  Cotene,  John 
Vyel,  John  Pykot  and  Thomas  atte  Wyne.  Recognisance  for  40?.,  to 
be  levied  etc.  in  Kent. 

May  8.  Walter  Mounde  of  Walyngton  to  Richard  de  Wyddene  citizen  of 

Westminster.  London.     Recognisance  for  IG/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Surrey. 

Membrane  24rf. 

April  6.  To  W.  archbishop  of  Canterbury.    Summons  to  a  parliament  to  be 

Westminster,  holden  at  Westminster  in  the  octaves  of  Trinity  next,  directing  him  to 

warn  the  prior  and  chapter  of  Christ  Church  Canterbury,  the  archdeacons 

and  the  clergy  of  his  diocese  to  attend,  the  said  prior  and  archdeacons 

in  person,  the  chapter  by  one  proctor  and  the  clergy  by  two. 

By  K.  and  C. 
The  like  to  John  archbishop  of  York,  Thomas  bishop  of  Durham, 
and  sixteen  other  bishops,  of  whom  the  bishops  of  LlandafT,  Bangor 
and  St.  Asaph  are  not  named. 

[Rep.  on  Dignity  of  a  Peer,  iv.  644.] 

To  the  abbot  of  Glastonbury.     Summons  to  the  said  parliament. 

By  K.  and  C. 


84 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1300. 


Membrane  24fl — cont. 


The  like  to  tlie  abbot  of  St.  Augustine  Canterbury  and  21  other 
abbots,  tlie  prior  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  and  the  prior  of 
Coventre. 

[Ibid.] 

To  John  duke  of  Lancastre  the  king's  son.  Summons  to  the  said 
parliament.  By  K.  and  C. 

The  like  to  Richard  earl  of  Arundell  and  nine  other  earls,  John 
de  Neville  of  Raby  and  34  others. 

[Ibid.  p.  645.]  * 

To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order  to  cause  two  knights  of  the  shire,  two 
citizens  of  every  city,  and  two  burgesses  of  every  borough  therein  to 
be  elected  and  come  to  the  said  parliament.  By  K.  and  C. 

The  like  to  singular  the  sheriffs  throughout  England. 

[Ibid.  p.  646.1 

To  Ralph  Spigurnell  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of  the 
Cinque  Ports,  or  to  his  lieutenant.  Order  to  cause  two  barons  of  every 
port  to  be  elected  and  come  to  the  said  parliament.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Ibid.] 

To  John  Kny vet.     Summons  to  the  said  parliament.      ByK.andC 

The  like  to  Robert  de  Thorp  and  seven  others. 

[Ibid.] 

Writing  of  Thomas  Chambernoun  lord  of  Modbury,  being  a  grant, 
surrender  and  quitclaim  to  Richard  Chambernoun  his  son,  the  heirs 
and  assigns  of  tlie  said  Richard,  of  all  his  lands,  rents  and  services 
in  Worthynton  co.  Leycester,  in  Estcoton  by  Gildesburgh  co.  Nor- 
hampton,  and  in  Coumbe  Real  and  Portesmouth  co.  Devon,  which 
he  the  said  Thomas  had  for  life  of  the  said  Richard's  heritage  by  the 
courtesy  of  England  after  the  death  of  Eleanor  his  wife.  Witnesses  : 
Sir  Thomas  de  Asteleye,  Richard  de  Hethnll,  John  Boyville  knights, 
Philip  de  Drayton,  William  Merther.  Dated  Westminster,  25  April 
43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  25  April. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Marny  parson  of  Tappelowe,  granting  to  Nicholas 
de  Brakele  for  his  good  service  a  pension  of  13s.  4rf.  to  be  taken  year 
by  year  during  his  life  at  Easter  at  London  of  the  said  parson  and 
his  executors  ;  and  bond  for  payment  thereof.  Dated  London,  20  April 
43  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  25  April. 

May  2.  Gerard  son  of  John  Salvayn  of  Herswell  knight  to  John  son  of 

Westminster.  Geoffrey  de  Wandesford,  Adam  de  Hedelay  parson  of  Bolton  Percy, 

John  Bret,  Ralph  Lund  and  John  parson  of  Herswell.     Recognisance 

for  200Z.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 

in  Yorkshire. 


May  5.  Guy   de  Briene  knight,   John   Seys   clerk   and  John   Bakwelle  to 

Westminster.  Thomas   de    Grandissono    knight.     Recognisance   for    2,000Z.,    to    be 
levied  etc.  in  Somerset. 


43    EDWARD    III. 


85 


1369. 


Membrane  24d — cont. 


Thomas  de  Grandissono  knight  to  Guy  de  Bryene  knight,  John 
Seys  clerk  and  John  Bakwelle.  Recognisance  for  2,000/.,  to  be 
levied  etc.  in  Somerset. 


April  21.         Adam  de  Chesterfeld  clerk  is  nominated  to  the  abbot  and  convent 

Westminster,  of  Selby  for  a  pension  wlierein  the  said  abbot  by  reason  of  his  new 

creation  is  bound  to  one  of  the  king's  clerks  at  the  king's  nomination. 

By  K. 

March  20.        William  Gamboun  the  king's  Serjeant  is  sent  to  the  prior  and  con- 

Rothorliitho.   vent  of  St.  Oswald,  to  take  such  maintenance  for  life  in  that  house 

as  John  Styrop  deceased  had  at  the  king's  request.        By  p.s.  [27786.] 

Membrane  2M. 

Writing  of  John  son  of  Richard  de  Bagingdene,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Thomas  de  Newenham  clerk,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  all  the  lands,  reversions  and  services  of  tenants  which  were  of  his  said 
father  in  the  towns  of  Shotryth,  Bruggeton,  Ruyneclifford,  Stratford 
upon  Avene  and  elsewhere  in  the  county  of  Warrewik.  Witnesses  : 
William  de  Catesby,  John  de  Catesby,  Nicholas  Michel  of  Coventre, 
William  de  Burton,  Henry  Edyngton.  Dated  London,  the  eve  of 
the  Assumption  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  30  April  this  year. 

Charter  of  Robert  Corby,  son  and  heir  of  Robert  Corby,  giving 
with  warranty  to  Robert  Beverage,  Thomas  Sewale  and  Sir  Philip 
de  Wrattyng  clerk,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  the  lands,  rents  and 
services  etc.  sometime  of  Jolm  de  Bregham  in  West  Wrattyng,  Weston 
Colville,  Wikeham  and  Strettele  which,  with  a  manor  in  Swafham 
Priour  sometime  of  the  said  John,  his  said  father  lately  had  of  the 
king's  grant.  Witnesses  :  John  de  Burgh  knight,  William  Beverage, 
John  de  Wode,  Thomas  Payn  of  Balsham,  Thomas  atte  Boure,  Adam 
Kailly,  Robert  Howessone.   Dated  Wrattyng,  30  April  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  May. 

Writing  of  Nicholas  de  Frendesbury,  one  of  the  executors  of  William 
Eme  of  Clyve  the  elder,  being  a  release  of  all  actions  real  and  personal 
against  John  de  Bisshopeston,  John  de  Massyngham,  John  de  Burton 
and  John  Swale,  and  acknowledgment  that  they  have  recompensed 
him  for  all  the  testator's  goods  and  chattels  by  them  taken,  driven 
or  carried  away  out  of  the  possession  of  the  executors  or  of  any  other 
in  Kent  or  elsewhere.  Dated  London,  10  February  38  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  6  May  this  year. 


Writing  of  Thomas  de  Grauntson  knight  and  Geoffrey  Waldene, 
granting  to  G\iy  de  Briene  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yeaily  rent 
of  40?.  to  be  taken  of  the  manor  of  Kestane  co.  Kent  at  Michaelmas  and 
Easter  by  even  portions,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  ;  and  they 
have  delivered  to  him  Id.  in  name  of  seisin  thereof.  Dated 
Wednesday  after  St.  Valentine  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandiim  of  acknowledgment  by  Thomas  de  Grauntson,  9  May 
this  year. 


8G 


CALKNDAl^  OF  CLOSK  KOLLS. 


l;iGJ).  Membrane  23d — amt. 

Writing  indented  of  Williiun  dt;  Botriaux  kniglit,  giving  with 
warranty  to  Master  Stephen  Pem]>el  dean  of  Welles,  Henry  Pcreeiiay, 
^Valter  de  C'loi)ton,  John  Tremayn,  Walter  Hethenham  parson  of 
I'okulchurche,  Peter  Crogov  parson  of  Landewynnek,  John  de 
Cliageford  parson  of  Northcadebury  and  Henry  Nanfan  for  their 
lives  the  towns  of  Lananta  and  liotriauxeastel,  the  manors  of  Botylet, 
Penhel,  Crakhamton,  Trewatlienant,  Worthcvale,  Jioswythgy,  Trene- 
thow,  Tiewarnayl  and  Lugans  co.  Cornwall  and  of  Langeford  and 
Mollond  Jiotriaux  eo.  Devon,  with  tlie  knights'  fees,  advowsons, 
reversions,  rents,  serviees,  liberties,  free  customs  etc.  thereto  belonging. 
Witnesses  :  Sir  Guy  de  Briene,  Sir  Walter  Bluet,  Sir  John  Prideau.K 
knights,  John  Dabernoun,  John  Boeville,  Richard  Chambernoun, 
John  Gerleston.     Dated  10  May  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  12  May. 

May  10.  AN^alter  de  Pedewardyn  knight  to  Robert  la  Souche.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  40/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 

Robert  la  Souche  to  Walter  de  Pedewardyn  knight.  Recognisance 
for  80  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 

April  13.         William  de  Nessefeld  to  William  bishop  of  Winchester.  Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  200/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Yorkshire. 

Memorandum  that  Richard  de  Ravensere  clerk  took  this  recog- 
nisance by  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus  potestatem,  which  is  on  the 
file  for  this  year. 

Membrane  22d. 

To  the  sheriff  of  York.  Order  to  cause  a  regard  to  be  made  in  the 
forest  of  Pekerynglith  according  to  the  form  of  the  capitula  following, 
so  that  it  be  done  before  the  Nativity  of  the  Virgin  Mary  next. 

Capitula. 

Beatrice  who  was  the  wife  of  Thomas  de  Breouse  knight  to  John 
Payn  citizen  and  armourer  of  London.  Recognisance  for  100/. 
payable  by  instalments,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  her 
lands  and  chattels  in  Sussex. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

Indenture  made  at  London,  15  May  43  Edward  III,  between  Beatrice 
who  was  the  wiie  of  Thomas  de  Breouse  knight  and  John  Payn  citizen 
and  armourer  of  London,  being  a  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recog- 
nisance, upon  condition  that  the  said  Beati-ice,  her  heirs  or  executors, 
shall  pay  to  tlie  said  John,  his  heirs  or  executors,  in  the  church  of 
St.  Paul  London  10  marks  at  the  quinzaine  of  Midsummer  next, 
10/.  at  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next,  10/.  at  the  quinzaine  of 
Michaelmas  next  {sic),  and  so  from  year  to  year  until  100  marks  be 
fully  paid,  the  said  John  covenanting  that  a  sufficient  acquittance 
shall  be  given  for  every  payment.      French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  John  Payn,  16  May. 

May  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  Essex.     Order  to  stay  altogether  the  execution  of 

the  king's  writ  ordering  him  to  cause  Richard  Hermar  of  London  to 

appear  in  person  before  him,  and  compel  the  said  Richard  to  find 


May  1. 

Westminster. 


May  14. 

Westminster. 


43  EDWARD  III. 


87 


1309.  Membrane  22d—cont. 

security  that  lie  will  not  cause  nor  procure  hurt  nor  liarni  to  tlie  person 
of  Thomas  Belhous  of  Alvethele,  not  troubUng  the  said  Richard  by 
reason  of  that  writ ;  as  the  same  was  lately  issued  at  the  suit  of  the 
said  Thomas,  alleging  that  the  said  Richard  had  threatened  him  ; 
but  William  de  Kent,  Richard  Norburgh,  Simon  Hadle  and  Wilham 
de  Bostone  of  London  appealing  in  person  in  chancery  have 
mainperned  for  the  said  Richard  to  the  effect  aforesaid  under  a  pain 
of  20^. 

The  following  have  like  writs  of  supersedeas  : 
April  16.  Hertfordshire.     William   parson  of  Lynlee,   John  Kylbeef,   John 

Westminster.  Kelyng  and  William  Bekenesfeld,  threatened  by  John  Wardc 

of  Lynlee  ;  mainpernors,  Thomas  Whatton  and  Robert  Fletwell 
of  Hertfordshire,  under  a  pain  of  20/. 

May  8.  Norhamptonshire.     Richard  parson  of  Little  Billyng,  threatened 

Westminster.  by  William  S\Aayn  of  Great  Billyng  the  younger,  John  Laurence 

of  Pisford,  John  Siwell  of  Pisford,  Simon  Flemyng,  Nicholas 
Webstere  of  Great  Billyng,  Henry  Jonson,  Simon  atte  Well  of 
Abyndon,  William  Yonge  of  Sprotton,  William  Magotes,  William 
Bettelowe,  Alfred  Abovethewell,  John  Cherl  and  William 
Mason  of  Great  Shillyng  ;  mainpernors  Robert  de  Isham, 
John  Caruaill,  Richard  Pyel,  and  William  Lodebroke  of 
Norhamptonshire,  under  a  pain  of  20/. 

May  25.  Ingelram  de  Coucy   earl  of  Bedeford  to  the  king.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  4,000  marks  payable  by  instalments  ;    to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Bedfordshire. 

Memorandum  that  by  writ  of  privy  seal  [29300],  dated  22  August  in 
the  46th  year  of  his  reign,  the  king  certified  John  Knyvet  the  chancellor 
that  the  said  4,000  marks  were  paid  in  his  chamber,  commanding  the 
said  chancellor  to  cancel  the  recognisance  for  the  same  made  and  eyirolled 
in  chancery,  wherefore  this  recognisance  is  cancelled.  The  said  writ 
is  on  the  file  among  writs  of  privy  seal  of  the  46th  year. 

May  30.  John  Pusye  to  Richard  de  Ravenser  clerk.     Recognisance  for  20/., 

Westminster,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Bukinghamshire. 


Membrane  2ld. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Claveryng  the  elder,  granting  with  warranty 
to  Hugh  de  Westwyk  clerk.  Thomas  de  Brandon  chaplain  and  John 
the  chaplain  of  the  Forde,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of 
40/.  issuing  from  his  manor  of  Calule  co.  Northumberland,  to  be  taken 
at  ^^'hitsuntide  and  Martinmas  by  even  portions,  with  power  to  distrain 
for  arrears.     Dated  Calule,  Monday  after  Ascension  day  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  1  June. 

June  2.  John  Lercedekne  knight  of  Cornwall  to  Peter  abbot  of  Abyndon, 

Westminster.  John  Seymour  and   Robert  Tresilian.      Recognisrnce  for  80  marks, 

to  be  levied,  in  default  of  paj-ment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Corm\  all. 

June  2.  To  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton.     Order  on  sight  of  these  presents  to 

Westminster,  cause  proclamation  to  be  made,  that  no  foreigner  or  jirivy  person  shall 

under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof  expose  any  cloths  for  sale  until  the 

subsidy  thereon  be  paid  and  the  cloths  sealed  with  the  seal  appointed 


88  CALKNDAR  0¥  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


13()!\  Mirnf)r:ine  2ld—ront. 

for  the  purpose,    tliat   no  drapers  or  clothmakers  shall   deliver   any 
cloths  out  of  their  keepinj^,  nor  suffer  tlie  same  to  pass  out  of  their 
hands  until  the  subsidy  be  paid  and  the  cloths  sealed  as  aforesaid, 
and  that  all  and  singular  the  mayors  and  bailiffs,  the  king's  ministers 
and  otliers  of  that  county  within  liberties  and  without  shall  under 
pain  of  forfeiture  be  herein  obedient  and  intendant  to  the  mayor  and 
bailiffs  of  Winchester  and  to  their  deputies  in    all  things  to  them 
pertaining,  and  himself  to  take  by  indenture  of  the  said  mayor  and 
bailiffs  or  their  deputies  and  of  every  one  of  them  all  cloths  which  they 
shall  take  as  forfeit  and  deliver   to  him,    handing   again   one  moiety 
thereof  to  them,  and  making  answer  at  the  exchequer  for  the  other 
moiety  of  sucli  forfeitures  ;    as  lately  in  aid  of  enclosing  the  city  of 
Winchester  with  walls,  these  being  in  part  ruinous  and  in  divers  places 
threatening  to  fall  it  is  said,  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  to  the 
mayor  ana  bailiffs  and  to  the  commonalty  of  the  said  city  all  the 
subsidy  upon  cloths  for  sale  in  that  county  within  liberties  and  without 
to  him  lately  granted  for  the  remission  by  him  made  at  the  request 
of  his  people  of  the  forfeiture  of  the  alnage  of  cloth,  to  be  taken  and 
collected  by  those  wliom  they  should  depute  from  Michaelmas  last 
for  five  years  according   to   the  statute  and  as  collected  by   John 
Mottesfunt  who  had  the  same  by  commission  of  the  king,   together 
with  a  moiety  of  all  forfeitures  to  the  king  pertaining  according  to  the 
statute,  which  the  king  [has  given]  them  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff 
for  their  pains  in  searching  for  forfeitures,  willing  that  the  same  shall  be 
delivered  by  indenture  to  the  sheriff,  and  that  answer  be  by  him  made 
to  the  king  for  the  other  moiety,  without  rendering  aught  to  the  king 
for  the  subsidy  or  for  the  moiety  of  the  forfeitures  ;    and  now  on 
behalf  of  the  said  mayor  and  bailiffs  the  king  is  informed  that  great 
number    of    merchants    and   others  have  heretofore  caused  and  do 
daily  cause  their   cloths  to  be  sealed  with  false  seals  and  counterfeit 
and  not  with  the  seal  appointed,  to  the  king's  great  loss  ;   and  whereas 
in  the  grant  of  the  said  subsidy  it  is  contained  that  all  cloths  exposed 
for  sale  before  being  sealed  with  the  seal  of  the  collection  thereof 
shall  be  forfeit  to  the  king,  it  is  his  will  that  all  cloths  sealed  with  the 
true  seals  of  the  collectors  shall  be  held  for  cloths  lawfully  customed 
and  sealed,  and  nought  shall  henceforward  be  demanded  or  paid  upon 
them  for  such  subsidy,  and  that  all  other  sealed  with  false  seals  and 
counterfeit  shall  when  exposed  for  sale  be  forfeited  and  by  the  collectors 
or  by  their  deputies  taken  into  the  king's  hand.  By  K. 

[Fcsdera.] 

June  3.  Thomas  de  Bobwyth  clerk  and  Henry  his  brother  to   Wilham   de 

Westminster.  Mirfeld   clerk.     Recognisance   for   201.,    to   be   levied,    in   default   of 
payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Yorksliire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

June  5.  Henry  Tydynge  parson  of  Estbradenham  to  Simon  Fymmar  vicar 

Westminster,  of  Estderham.     Recognisance  for  10/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Norffolk. 

Writing  of  Edward  de  Mounteneye,  son  of  John  de  Mounteneye, 
being  a  grant  and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Richard  de  Salyngg 
citizen  of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands  which  he  the 
said  Richard  has  in  Stanford  Reyners  and  Kelwedon  co.  Essex. 
Witnesses  :   Sir  John  Pykbrigge  knight,  Su  Gilbert  de  Stanford  knight, 


43    EI)\VA1M>    111.  89 


1360.  Membrane  21  d — cont. 

Jolin  de  Bampton,  Roger  Gcrmayn,  Ralph  Asselyne,  John  Olyvc,  John 
atte  IJiigge.  Dated  Stanford  Royncrs,  Sunday  after  St.  Edmund 
King  and  Martyr  41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  6  June  this  year. 

Writing  of  William  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Bcnyngton,  giving 
to  Master  Richard  de  Salyngg  mason  citizen  of  London  and  to  Jolm 
Hanekyn  citizen  of  London,  their  heirs  and  a.ssififns,  a  yearly  rent 
of  10  marks  to  be  taken  at  Michaelmas  of  all  his  lands  in  Springfeld 
and  Borham,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  in  the  said  lands 
to  whose  hands  soev'^er  they  shall  come,  and  in  all  other  his  lands  in 
Essex  which  he  has  in  demesne,  which  others  hold  of  him,  or  the 
reversion  whereof  pertains  to  him  or  his  heirs  after  the  same  shall 
fall  in.  Witnesses  :  Hugh  de  Badewe  knight,  Edmund  Waryner, 
Simon  de  la  Boterye,  William  Prentys,  Robert  Bakere.  Dated 
Chelmersford   co.  Essex,  Friday  before  St.  Barnabas  43  Edward  IIL 

Memorandnm  of  acknowledgment,  6  June. 

Charter  of  John  Billyng,  giving  with  warranty  to  -Lewis  bishop  of 
Hereford,  William  de  Cherleton,  Thomas  de  Bysshebury  and  Adam 
Esegar,  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  bi.shop,  one  acre  of  land  in 
\\'estbury  by  Newenham.  namely  of  the  land  which  he  the  said  John 
purchased  of  Elizabeth  one  of  the  daughters  and  heirs  of  Nicholas 
Gamage,  and  a  third  part  of  a  third  part  of  the  advowson  of  \Vestbury 
church,  namely  all  that  part  which  he  the  .said  John  purchased  of 
the  said  Elizabeth.  Dated  Westbury.  Tuesday  in  Whitsun  week 
43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  6  June. 

June  8.  John  abbot  of   Torre,   for   himself    and   the  convent,    to   Matthew 

Westminster,  de  Clyvedon.     Recognisance  for   1,000/.,   to   be  levied,   in  default  of 
payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Devon. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Membrane  20d. 

Indenture  made  between  the  king  and  John  Claver  of  Bury,  being 
a  lease  to  farm  for  three  years  from  8  May  last  of  the  subsidy  upon  cloths 
for  sale  in  Norflfolk  and  Suffolk  lately  granted  to  the  king  by  the  lords 
and  commons  of  the  realm  for  release  of  the  forfeiture  of  alnage  there- 
upon laid  of  old  time,  to  wit  'id.  the  cloth  of  assize  without  grain, 
Gd.  the  cloth  of  assize  of  '  scarlet,'  5(7.  the  cloth  of  assize  of  half  grain, 
the  moiety  thereof  for  every  half  cloth,  and  in  proportion  for  every 
cloth  exceeding  the  half  cloth  of  assize  by  3  ells  or  more  wliich  is  not 
a  whole  cloth,  and  for  one  exceeding  a  whole  cloth  of  assize  by  3  ells 
or  more,  rendering  to  the  king  30/.  a  year  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter 
by  even  portions.  Covenant  by  the  king  that  in  case  the  said  subsidy 
or  any  parcel  thereof  shall  cease  dming  the  said  term  by  order  of  the 
king  or  council,  the  lessee,  his  deputies  and  heirs,  shall  be  quit  toward 
the  king  of  the  farm  from  the  time  it  shall  first  cease  ;  that  they  shall 
be  quit  toward  him  in  time  to  come  of  all  impeachments  touching  the 
collection  and  administration  of  the  said  subsidy,  saving  to  every 
man  his  action  for  extortion  or  excess  by  the  farmer  committed  ; 
that  they  shall  not  be  compelled  to  render  account  to  the  king  of  the 
said  subsidy,  but  only  to  answer  for  the  said  yearly  farm  ;  that  they 
shall  have  licence  at  their  pleasure  without  impeachment  of  the  king 


90  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


13()9.  Membrane  20d — cont. 

or  his  initiisters  in  time  to  conic  to  let  the  subsidy  to  farm  in  gross 
or  by  patcels  to  any  w  ho  will  take  it  ;  that  whereas  in  the  statute 
it  is  contained  tliat  all  manner  of  cloths  exposed  for  sale  before  being 
sealed  with  the  seal  appointed  for  the  purpose  shall  be  forfeit  to  the 
king,  the  farmer  and  his  deputies  shall  be  bound  to  deliver  by  indenture 
to  the  sheriff  of  the  county  where  they  shall  be  found  all  cloths  found 
so  forfeit,  and  the  sheriff  shall  answer  for  them  upon  his  account,  so 
that  the  farmer  and  liis  deputies  shall  thereby  be  discharged  of  render- 
ing account,  provided  alw  ays  that  such  forfeitures  in  the  said  counties 
shall  remain  to  the  king  ;  that  in  case  the  farmer  shall  have  occasion 
to  sue  any  man  for  any  matter  concerning  his  farm,  the  king  will  lay 
to  his  hand  and  will  be  a  party  in  aid  of  the  farmer  ;  that  commissions 
shall  be  made  to  particular  persons  at  the  farmer's  nomination  to 
make  inquisition  in  the  said  counties  at  what  towns  and  places  cloth 
is  made,  and  every  maker  thereof  shall  be  forbidden  on  pain  of  for- 
feiture to  suffer  any  cloth  to  pass  out  of  his  keeping  until  sealed  with 
the  seal  appointed  for  the  purpose  ;  tliat  from  Michaelmas  forward 
the  seals  which  serve  this  office  shall  be  new  made  by  advice  of  the 
council  and  of  the  farmers  [sic),  and  the  seals  now  in  use  shall  be 
given  up  and  put  in  the  treasury  to  avoid  hurt  which  might  happen 
to  the  farmer  during  the  said  term  ;  that  in  case  after  the  said  term 
the  subsidy  sliall  be  further  let  to  farm  and  the  said  John  will  take 
it,  he  shall  have  the  preference  over  any  other  for  the  sum  that  others 
will  give  without  fraud  or  covin.  Dated  Westminster,  12  May  43 
Edward  III.     French.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  for  the  said  farmer  by  Nicholas  Bures, 
Thomas  Ewell  and  Edward  de  Naunton  of  Suffolk,  to  answer  to  the 
king  for  the  said  farm  in  case  of  his  default. 

Like  indentures  are  made  between  the  king  and  the  following 
persons  : 

Essex  and    Hertfordshire.      Thomas  de  Lacford  for  three  years 

from   Michaelmas   last   rendering   221.    a   year  ;     and   the   said 

Thomas    shall    have    to    his    own    use    all    forfeitures.     Dated 

Westminster,   8  October.     Mainpernors  :   William  Hor,scroft  of 

London  "  pelter  '  and  Thomas  de  Lacford  of  London  '  pelter.' 

French. 

City    and   suburbs   of   London   and   Middlesex.     Richard   Baret 

for  three  years  from  Michaelmas  last  rendering  100  marks  a 

year,  and  taking  the  moiety  of  forfeitures.     Dated  Westminster, 

8  October.     French. 

WarAvickshire,  Leycestershii'e,  Staffordshire  and  Salop.  John  Ray  of 

Coventre  for  three  years  from  Michaelmas  last  rendering  50 

marks  a  year,  and  taking  the  third  part  of  forfeitures.       Dated 

\^'estminster,  8  October.     Freyich.         By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Herefordshire.     William  Leyghton  of  Hereford  for  seven  years 

from  Micliaelmas  last  rendering  4L  a  year  and  taking  the  third 

part    of    all    forfeitures.      Dated  Westminster,   10    December. 

French.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Mainprise  before  the  treasurer  of  Walter  Thurgrym  and  William 

de  Telyngton  of  Herefordshire  for  the  said  farmer. 


Charter  of  Roger  de  Bello  Campo  knight,  Wilham  de  Sandford  clerk 
and  Andrew  de  Wauton,  granting  to  John  de  Blankmouster  knight  and 
Margaret  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  the  manors  of 
Wyghhale,  Esdik,  Bisshopeshill  and  Edlyngton  co.  York,   Bienamee, 


43    EDUAKI)    ill.  91 


1309.  Membrane  20rf — cont. 

Stratton,  Seintemaru'wyk,  the  advowson  of  Sfiiiteiiuiricwik,  Swancote 
and  the  whole  isle  of  vSully  eo.  Cornwall,  and  ail  lands,  rents,  and 
services  of  free  men  and  neifs,  all  knights'  fees,  lordships,  liberties, 
escheats,  wards,  r('li(>fs,  marria;;es,  profits  etc.  as  fully  as  the  grantors 
liad  the  same  of  the  gift  and  feolfmentof  tlie  said  John,  with  remainder, 
if  the  said  .John  and  Margaret  die  witliout  sucli  heirs,  to  John  de 
Bhmkinouster  knight,  his  licirs  and  assigns.  Witnesses  :  John  hisliop 
of  Lincoln,  Thomas  earl  of  Warrewyk,  John  de  Bdllo  C'ampo,  Walter 
Penhargarth,  Robert  Kos  knights,  Robert  Tresilian,  William  Fairfax. 
Dated  London,  4  May  43  Edward  IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  11  June. 

Writing  of  John  Royston  and  Thomas  de  Abberton,  being  a  bond  to 
Thomas  de  Hesj'lden  in  100/.  payable  at  London  at  Michaelmas  next. 
Dated  London,   10  June  43  PMward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  London,  11  June. 

Membrane   19f/. 

April  26,  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  at  tlieir  peril  to  cause 
Westminster,  proclamation  to  be  made  forbidding  any  man  of  whatsoever  con- 
dition under  pain  of  forfeiture  to  do  anything  by  deed  or  word  tending 
to  offence  or  insult  towards  the  hostages  of  the  realm  of  France 
dwelling  in  the  city  of  London  for  John  late  king  of  France  the  king's 
prisoner,  their  household  or  servants,  to  threaten  or  molest  them,  or 
to  do  violence  or  hurt  to  them  in  body  or  goods  ;  and  if  after  the 
proclamation  they  shall  find  any  so  doing,  to  cause  them  to  be 
arrested  and  imprisoned  until  the  king  shall  take  other  order  for  their 
punishment.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Fmdera.} 

May  10.  To  the  mayor  and  slieriffs  of  London.     Order  to  cause  proclamation 

Westminster,  to  be  made  in  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London  on  the  king's  behalf 
forbidding  any  man  of  whatsoever  craft  or  condition  under  pain  of  for- 
feiture to  inflict  hurt  or  insult  upon  the  men  and  merchants  of  Flanders 
and  Lumbardy  in  their  persons  or  property,  or  to  do  anything  tending 
thereto,  and  if  after  the  proclamation  thej'  shall  find  any  so  doing, 
to  take  and  imprison  them  until  further  order  ;  as  the  king  has  heard 
by  frequent  report  of  several  that  evil  and  insult  is  by  the  people 
of  the  said  city  daily  inflicted  on  the  said  men  and  merchants  dwelling 
there  and  coming  tliither,  to  his  shame  and  offence  ;  and  the}'  are  come 
for  the  advantage  of  the  realm  according  to  proclamation  made  on 
the  king's  behalf,  wherefore  they  trusted  to  be  safe  from  ill  usage, 
and  the  king  has  taken  them  under  his  special  protection.  By  K. 
[Ibid.] 

Assignment  of  dower  to  Joan  who  was  w  ife  of  John  Lely  the  younger 
tenant  in  chief,  made  at  Carleton  by  John  Scotherskelf  escheator  in 
Yorkshire  10  November  41  Edward  III,  in  the  presence  of  John  son 
of  Walter  de  Carleton.  John  Taillour,  John  del  Law  e,  Thomas  son  of 
William  of  the  same.  First  in  the  capital  messuage  of  her  said  husband 
in  Carleton  one  grange  with  all  the  garden  which  extends  from  the 
hall  towards  a  croft  of  the  said  messuage  lying  by  the  public  lane  of 
the  town  of  Carleton  towards  the  north  as  appears  by  bounds  there, 
and  a  house  with  a  chamber  built  opposite  the  haU  towards  the  south 


92 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1301). 


Membrane  \9d — cont. 


without  the  garden  adjoining ;  in  another  messuage  called  the 
'  Marschall  Place '  the  smaller  grange  there  built,  with  a  third 
part  of  all  the  garden  next  adjacent  as  appears  by  metes  and 
bounds  ;  in  the  field  of  Carleton  one  whole  several  pasture  called 
'  Lelypasture '  containing  10  acres  of  land,  one  cultura  of  land 
there  called  '  Outinwych  '  containing  3i  acres,  one  called  '  Lidyntak ' 
containing  3  acres,  one  called  '  Mikylbaghham  '  containing  4  acres, 
one  called  '  Litebaghham  '  containinK  3  acres,  one  called  '  Under- 
bagiiham '  containing  3  ac-res,  and  one  called  '  Perkyngarth  ' 
containing  3  acres  of  land  ;  also  one  cultura  of  land  there  called 
'  Havercroft '  containing  (5  acres,  to  hold  with  free  ingress  and  egress 
and  with  all  appurtenances  in  the  town  and  territory  of  Carleton. 

June  8.  To  Jolm  Knyvet  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hold  pleas 

before  the  king.     Order,  for  particular  causes,  to  stay  until  further 

order  the  pleas  before  tliem  pending  between  the  king  and  John 
de  Acton  monk  of  Bordesleye  abbey,  now  abbot  thereof  it  is  said, 
concerning  certain  contempts  and  trespasses  laid  against  the  said 
abbot. 

May  9.  To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.     Order  to  stay  until  further  order  the 

Westminster,  making  of  further  process  for  a  contempt  against  Henry  de  Terbok  by  a 
writ  before  them  pending  at  the  king's  suit ;  as  on  behalf  of  the  said 
Hem-y  it  is  shewn  the  king  that  at  his  command  the  said  Henry  is  about  to 
sail  with  all  speed  to  foreign  parts  for  defence  of  the  king's  lands  there, 
that  he  is  [prosecuted]  before  the  said  justices  for  having  haled  William 
Carles  and  Emma  his  wife  to  a  plea  out  of  the  realm  touching  many 
matters  belonging  to  the  king's  cognisance,  for  making  with  others  and 
procuring  appeals,  citations,  instruments,  processes  etc.  hurtful  to  the 
king  and  the  crown,  to  the  contempt  and  prejudice  of  the  king  and  the 
destruction  of  the  law  and  custom  of  the  realm,  and  that  by  reason 
of  his  speedy  departure  he  may  not  at  present  appear  before  the 
justices  to  answer  touching  that  contempt,  wherefore  prayer  is  made 
to  the  king  for  [speedy  succour],  seeing  that  otherwise  he  must  shortly 
be  put  out  of  the  king's  protection  for  not  appearing  before  the  said 
justices  for  that  cause;  and  the  king  would  not  that  any  man  should  at 
his  suit  be  damnified  while  absent  on  his  service  at  his  command.    By  C. 


Membrane   18c?. 

Charter  of  Jolm  Paynell  of  Botheby  by  Billesfeld,  giving  with 
w^arranty  to  Sir  Henry  de  Barton  canon  of  the  church  of  St.  Peter  York, 
Sir  John  de  Botheby  parson  of  Baynton,  Sir  John  de  Billesfeld  parson  of 
Botheby,  Peter  de  Grimesby  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull,  Thomas  de 
Botheby  of  Billesfeld  and  John  de  Brakenholm,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
his  manor  and  the  advowson  of  Botheby  co.  Lincoln  and  all  other  his 
lands  and  rents  in  Estdepjnig,  Brunne  and  Donyngton,  Ingoldesby, 
Somerby,  Paunton  and  Thorpe  by  Westby  and  elsewhere  in  the  said 
county,  his  manor  of  Sproxton  co.  Leycester,  all  his  lands  in  Skylyng- 
ton  and  elsewhere  co.  Lincoln,  also  his  manor  of  Botilbrigge  co.  Hunting- 
don and  all  his  lands  in  Lutryngton  by  Aberford  co.  York,  with  the 
services  of  free  tenants  and  neifs,  meadows,  woods,  ways,  paths, 
marshes,  fisheries,  mills,  feedings,  pastures,  lordships  etc.  Witnesses  : 
William  Marmyon,  John  Paynell  of  Knaptoft  knights,  Richard  de 
Salteby,  John  de  Welleby.  WilUam  de  Wodforth,  Lawrence  Hauberk, 


43    EDWARD    III. 


93 


1300.  Memhrnne  \Hd — cont. 

Jolin  de  PykwoU,  Jolin  de   Harawdon,   William  de  Raygat,    William 
de  fierlay.    Dated  i^otheby,  Thursday  Ix'foro  Midsummer  40  Edward  111. 
Memorandum  of  aeknowledgment,  9  June  this  year. 

Charter  of  Walter  Blount,  giving  with  warianty  to  Godfrey  Fol- 
jaunibe  knight  and  Auiua  his  wife,  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said 
Godfrey,  all  the  site  of  his  manor  of  Haselwode  and  all  buildings 
thereon  within  the  moat  and  without,  exoejjt  the  worser  grange,  a  house 
called  the  '  deyrye  '  and  the  garden  adjoining,  and  except  the  great 
garden  without  the  moat  of  the  said  manor,  with  free  ingress  and 
egress.  Witnesses  :  John  duk(;  of  Lancastre,  William  Croyser,  Aldrcd 
Sulny,  Edmund  de  Appelby,  Robert  de  Twyford  knights,  John  de  la 
Pole.     Dated  Hasilwode,  Saturday  after  A.scension  day  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  9  June. 

June  8.  Thomas  de  Abberton  and  John  Roiston  to  Thomas  de  Hasilden. 

Westrninstor.  Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  100/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Kent. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

June  7.  Bernard   Brocas   knight   to   Hugh   Segrave.     Recognisance   for   80 

Westrninstor.  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  William  de  Sandford  clerk,  being  a  release  and  con- 
firmation to  John  de  Blankmouster  knight  and  Margaret  his  wife 
and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an 
heir  to  the  said  John  and  liis  heirs  for  ever  quit  of  him  the  said  William 
and  his  heirs,  of  the  manors  of  Bienamee,  Stratton,  Seintemariewyk 
with  the  advowson  of  Seintemariewyk  church,  Swancote  and  the 
whole  isle  of  Sully  co.  Cornwall,  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services  of 
free  men  and  neifs,  with  all  kniglits'  fees,  lordships,  liberties,  escheats, 
wards,  reliefs,  marriages,  profits  etc.  which  he  the  said  William,  Roger  de 
Bello  Campo  knight  and  Andrew  de  Wauton  had  of  the  gift  and 
feoffment  of  the  said  John,  the  said  John  and  Margaret  being  now  in 
full  and  peaceful  possession  and  seisin  of  the  premises  by  virtue  of 
a  charter  whereby  they  the  said  Roger,  William  and  Andrew  granted 
the  same  to  them  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  with  remainder  as 
aforesaid.  Witnesses  :  John  bishop  of  Lincoln,  Thomas  earl  of 
Warrewyk,  John  de  Bello  Campo,  Robert  de  Thorp,  William  de 
Fyncheden  knights,  Robert  Treszilian,  William  Worfton.  Dated 
Westminster,   10  June  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,    11   June. 

Memorandum  that  it  was  set  forth  in  tlie  present  parliament  holden 
at  Westminster  in  the  octaves  of  Trinity,  namely  3  June  this  year, 
how  that  Charles  son  of  John  late  king  of  France  has  broken  the  peace 
last  made  between  the  king  and  the  said  John,  not  onh-  usurping  the 
sovereignty  and  jurisdiction  {resortum)  which  ought  to  pertain  to  the  king 
of  England  and  his  heirs  in  the  lands  by  the  said  peace  delivered  to 
him,  but  in  warlike  fashion  with  banners  displayed  by  his  men  and 
power  thrusting  out  the  said  king  as  well  from  his  sovereignty  and 
jurisdiction  aforesaid  as  from  his  castles,  towns  and  lands  in  the  lord- 
ship of  Ponthieu  and  from  that  whole  lordship,  and  also  from  great 
number  of  other  castles,  cities  and  towns  in  divers  other  parts  over 


04 


CALKNDAR  OF  ("LOSK  ROLLS. 


1300.  Membrane  ISd — cont. 

sea,  taking  them  to  his  own  liands,  oc(;upying  and  holding  tlieni  in 
liostile  manner,  and  has  caused  divers  fleets  of  ships  and  galleys  to 
assemble  with  great  power  of  armed  men  in  divers  parts  over  sea  in 
order  to  invade  the  realm  and  overthrow  the  king  and  his  dominion, 
of  his  malice  making  open  war  contrary  to  his  oath  and  to  the  said 
peace  ;  and  it  was  agreed  by  the  prelates,  lords  and  the  commons  of 
the  counties  of  England  in  parliament  assembled  with  the  assent 
of  the  whole  parliament  that  the  king  of  England  should  again  take 
the  name  of  king  of  England  and  France  as  before  the  peace,  should 
style  himself  king  of  England  and  France  upon  letters  and  seals,  and 
henceforw  ard  use  that  name  or  style  ;  wherefore  on  Monday  the 
feast  of  St.  Barnabas,  namely  11  June  this  year,  the  now  king  of 
England  and  France  caused  all  his  seals  which  were  in  his  treasury 
as  ^\•ell  for  the  ruling  of  England  as  for  the  courts  (placets)  of  either 
Bench  and  of  the  exchecjuer  and  for  the  office  of  the  privy  seal  in  the 
circumscription  whereof  is  engraved  Edwardus  Rex  Anglie  et  Francie 
or  Francie  et  Anglie  to  come  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster  by  William 
de  Mulsho  and  Jolin  de  Newenham  the  chamberlains  of  his  exchequer, 
and  of  them  William  bishop  of  Winchester  the  chancellor  [took]  two 
great  seals  either  of  them  in  two  pieces  on  one  of  which  is  engraved 
Rex  Anglie  et  Francie  and  on  the  otlier  Rex  Francie  et  Anglie,  delivering 
one  seal  in  two  pieces  to  John  Knyvet  chief  justice  of  the  King's 
Bench  for  sealing  writs  of  that  court  (placee),  one  other  in  two  pieces 
to  Robert  de  Thorp  chief  [justice]  of  the  Common  Bench,  a  third 
in  two  pieces  to  Master  William  de  Askeby  archdeacon  of  Norhampton 
chancellor  of  the  exchequer,  and  another  seal  in  one  piece  appointed 
for  the  office  of  privy  seal  to  Peter  de  Lacy  clerk  of  the  privy  seal, 
and  handing  again  to  the  said  chamberlains  to  be  kept  in  the  treasury 
the  great  seal  in  two  pieces  whereon  is  engraved  Edwardus  Rex  Anglie 
dominus  Hihernie  et  Aquitanie  appointed  for  the  ruling  of  England 
according  to  the  said  peace,  and  four  other  seals  with  the  style 
Regis  Anglie  domini  Hihernie  et  Aquitanie  heretofore  used  for  the 
courts  of  the  two  Benches  and  of  the  exchequer  and  for  the  office 
of  the  privy  seal  after  the  said  peace. 

[Foedera.     Rolls  of  Parliament,  ii.  App.  460.] 

June  15.  Ralph  de  Hastyngges  knight,   William  de  Chetewynd  knight  and 

Westminster.  Nicholas  de  Stayngreve  parson  of  Thornton  in  Craven  to  John  de 
Neville  lord  of  Rab}^  Roger  de  Fulthoxp,  Thomas  de  Hexham  and 
William  de  Blakeden.  Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  800  marks,  to 
be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in 
Yorkshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment^  acknowledged  by  the  said  John. 


Membrane  lid. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Marny  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Robert  de  Burton  now  parson  of  Southwokendon  and  John  de 
Shropham  chaplain,   tlieir  heirs  and    assigns,    of    the 
of   Leyre   Marny,    tlie    advowson    of   the   chantry   of 
church,    the   manor   of    Ardernehall    in    Horndon,   and 
lands,  fees,  homages,  fealties,  rents,  services,   liberties 
of  free  tenants  and  villeins  in  the  towns  of  Leyre  Marny,  Horndon 
Great  Wygebergh,  Salcote  Virly,  Leyrebretoun.  Tolshunte    Knightes, 
Kelleveden,    Great    Braxted,    Inneworth,    Feryngg,    Great    Totham, 


whole   manor 

Leyre   Marny 

all  other  his 

and  customs 


43    EDWARD    III.  95 


18()9.  Membrane  lid — cont. 

Little  Totham,  Heohroggo,  Falkcljorne  and  Little  Lo(]rlies  co.  Essex 
without  ext-eption,  all  w  liicli  the  said  Robert  de  Marny  by  eharter, 
dated  Ley  re  Marney  S  April  41  Edward  III,  gave  to  Walter  de  Salcote 
parson  of  Great  Horkesleye,  the  said  Robert  de  Burton  then  parson 
of  Wvkhain  and  the  said  John,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  and  after  by 
a  writing,  dated  South  Wokendon  29  August  42  Edward  III,  the  said 
Walter  quitclaimed  to  the  said  Robert  de  Burton  and  John,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  all  his  right  in  the  premises.  Dated  South wokyndon, 
12  June  43  Edward  IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  June. 

Writing  of  Ralph  de  Crombwell  kniglit  lord  of  Tatershale  co.  Lincoln, 
giving  with  warranty  to  Richard  de  Chestrefeld  clerk,  Richard  de 
Tyssynton  clerk,  AVilliam  de  Wakebrugge  and  John  de  la  Pole  of 
Assheburne,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  the  remainder  after  the  death  of 
Ulker  the  said  Ralph's  brother  of  the  mnnor  of  Hokenale  Torkard  with 
all  services  of  free  and  villein  tenants,  all  reversions  of  tenants 
for  life  or  years,  and  all  other  lands  in  the  said  town  now  held  for 
life  by  the  said  Ulker  with  reversion  to  him  the  said  Ralph.  Witnesses  : 
Sir  Hugh  de  Huse  knight,  Roger  de  Mers.  Lawrence  Hauberk,  William 
de  Aderleye.  Dated  London,  Thursday  after  St.  Barnabas  43 
Edward  IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  15  June. 

Writing  of  Stephen  de  W^ndslade  lord  of  Frome  Braunche  and 
of  Faleyse,  being  a  grant  and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John 
Panes  of  \Vyke,  Thomasia  his  wife  and  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the 
said  John,  of  all  his  estate  in  the  manor  and  all  the  lands  of  Elme,  and 
in  Elme  and  the  advowson  thereof,  saving  to  the  said  Stephen  and  his 
heirs  the  suit  to  the  lumdred  of  Frome  which  he  used  heretofore  to 
have.  Witnesses  :  John  de  la  Mare,  Henry  de  Forde,  Edmund  Flory, 
John  Pane  of  Prurigge,  William  Mountagu  of  Frome. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  16  June. 

June  19.  William  de  Sancto  Quintino  knight  to  Richard  de  Ravenser  clerk, 

Westminster.  John  de  Ravenser  clerk  and  Roger  de  Fulthorp.  Recognisance  for 
80Z.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Yorkshire. 

Charter  of  Thomas  son  of  Alan  of  North  Milford,  giving  with  warranty 
to  Robert  son  of  Richard  del  Northalle  of  Ledes,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  town  and  territory  of  North 
Milford  which  descended  by  inheritance  to  him  the  said  Thomas 
after  the  death  of  Alan  his  father.  Witnesses  :  Robert  de  Saxton, 
William  Bracebrig,  John  Levet,  William  de  Mikelfeld,  Thomas  de 
Saxton.  Dated  Hillum  by  Abberford,  Thursday  after  St.  Barnabas 
43  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Thomas  son  of  Alan  of  North  Milford,  being  a  letter 
of  attorney  to  Thomas  de  Ledes  and  John  Levet  or  one  of  them  to 
deliver  to  Robert  son  of  Richard  del  Northalle  of  Ledes  seisin  of  all 
the  lands  of  the  said  Thomas  son  of  Alan  in  the  town  and  territory 
of  North  Milford.  Dated  Hullum  by  Abberford,  Saturday  after  St. 
Barnabas  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  28  June. 


96 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


13()0. 


Membrane  lid — cont. 


Writing  of  John  do  Harleye,  Rohert  Hayle  '  hoclior,'  John  Donelent 
and  John  do  Ohdon  clcik,  being  a  bond  to  John  do  licdewardyn  (;ierk 
in  200/.  payable  at  Hereford  on  Micliaelnias  day  next.  Dated 
Thursday  the  eve  of  St.  Peter  and  St.  Paul  43  Edward  IlL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  June. 

Membrane  16<i. 

July  5.  Simon    de    Burgh,    Richard    Tewedre    clerk    and    William    Kerl    to 

Wostininstor.  Gilbert  Champeney.s.     Joint  and  .several  recogni.sance  for  4,000/.,  to 
be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Kent. 
Cancelled  on  'payment. 

Charter  of  John  Chipstede  and  John  Walworth,  giving  to  the  king, 
his  heirs  and  as.signs,  to  the  use  of  the  house  of  the  order  of  friars 
preachers  of  Derteford  by  him  new  founded,  10  acres  of  land  in 
Derteford.     Dated  Derteford,  10  June  43  Edward  ILL 

Memorandum   of  acknowledgment,    12  July. 

June  11.  To  the  bailiffs  and  constable  of  the  city  of  Hereford.     Order  to 

WostminHtor.  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  forbidding  any  citizen  or  inhabitant  to 
pass  out  or  absent  himself  etc.  [as  above,  p.  28). 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Marny  knight,  giving  to  Robert  de  Burton 
parson  of  South  Wokyndon  and  John  de  Schropham  chaplain,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  100  marks  to  be  taken  at  Michael- 
mas and  Easter  by  even  portions  of  all  his  lands  in  Bukinghamshire, 
with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears ;  and  he  has  this  day  delivered  to 
them  half  a  mark  in  name  of  seisin  thereof.  Dated  South  Wokyndon, 
4  July  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  July. 

July  12.  Ebulo  Roos   to    Benedict   de  Gresby   clerk.     Recognisance  for  10 

Westminster,  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Lincolnshire. 

Indenture  made  between  Simon  de  Burgh  of  the  one  part  and 
Gilbert  Chaumpeneys  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  of  the  other  part,  witness- 
ing a  gift  to  the  said  Gilbert  and  Elizabeth  of  tlie  manor  of  Redmergge 
with  the  lands,  mills,  meadows,  rents,  services,  woods,  pastures  and 
commodities  in  Rotherfeld,  Wythyhamme,  Gromenebrigge,  Speld- 
hurst  and  Penshurst  which  the  said  Simon  had  of  their  gift,  as  appears 
by  a  fine  levied  between  the  parties  in  this  quinzaine  of  St.  John 
43  Edward  III,  to  hold  for  their  lives  with  reversion  to  the  said  Simon 
and  his  heirs.  Covenants  that  the  said  Gilbert  and  Elizabeth  shall 
not  be  impeached  for  any  waste  therein  made,  and  for  discharge  of 
the  said  Gilbert's  warranty  to  the  said  Simon  and  his  heirs  in  the 
said  fine  contained  saving  warranty  as  against  the  said  Elizabeth 
and  her  heirs  to  have  and  enjoy  the  premises  at  his  will  after  the  said 
Gilbert's  death.  Dated  Westminster,  Friday  after  the  fourth  day 
after  the  said  quinzaine  of  St.  John.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  14  July. 

Indenture  made  between  Richard  Tewedre  clerk  and  William 
Kerl  of  the  one  part  and  Gilbert  Chaumpeneys  and  Elizabeth  his 
wife  of  the  other  part,   witnessing  a  gift  to   the   said   Gilbert  and 


43    EDWARD    III.  97 


1369.  Membrane  \M—cont. 

Elizabeth  for  their  Hves,  with  remainder  to  the  said  Ricliard  and 
William  and  to  their  heirs,  of  two  messuages,  a  mill,  300  acres  of 
land,  40  acres  of  meadow,  2(K)  acres  of  pasture,  50  acres  of  wood, 
400  acres  of  marsh,  33s'.  id.  of  rent,  and  a  rent  of  one  cock,  14  hens 
(gelyns),  one  lamb,  one  '  wcye '  'Ahlh.  of  cheese  in  Frcndesbury, 
Sturreye,  Hakynton,  Upcherche,  Halwesto  by  Upcherche,  '  Seint 
Marie  Paryssh  '  and  AlUiallows  Halwesto  in  Hoo,  which  they  the 
said  Richard  and  William  had  by  gift  of  the  said  Gilbert  and  Elizabeth 
contained  in  a  fine  levied  between  the  parties  in  this  qiiinzaine  of 
St.  John  43  Edward  III.  Covenants  tliat  the  said  Gilbert  and 
Elizabeth  shall  not  be  impeached  for  any  waste  by  them  made  in 
the  premises,  and  for  discharge  of  the  said  Gilbert's  warranty  to 
the  said  Richard  and  William  and  to  their  heirs  in  the  said  fine  con- 
tained, saving  warranty  against  the  said  Elizabetli  and  her  heirs  to 
have  and  enjoy  the  premises  at  their  will  after  his  death.  Dated 
{as  the  last).     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,   14  July. 

Membrane  I5d. 

Charter  of  Roger  del  Northalle  of  Ledes,  giving  with  warranty 
to  Sir  Walter  Power  clerk,  Richard  del  Gates  chaplain  and  Thomas 
de  Bameby  parson  of  Heton,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  his  manor  of 
Northalle  of  Ledes  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services  whatsoever  which 
he  has  or  may  have  in  Heton  in  Bradfordale,  Shagh,  Brytby,  Cusworth, 
Burlay,  Armelay,  a\  ith  all  wards,  reliefs,  marriages,  escheats,  services 
of  free  tenants  and  neifs,  meadows,  woods,  pastures  etc.  thereto 
belonging,  ^^'itnesses  :  James  de  Raygate,  Thomas  Gra,  John  de 
Wad  worth,  John  de  \^niettelav.  \\'illiam  de  Whettelay.  Dated  London, 
the  feast  of  St.  Peter  and  St.  Paul  43  Edward  III. 

Charter  of  Roger  del  Northalle  of  Ledes,  granting  with  warranty 
to  Sir  Walter  Power  clerk,  Richard  de  Gates  chaplain  and  Thomas  de 
Barneby  parson  of  Heton,  and  to  their  heirs,  the  reversion  of  the 
manor  of  Okewell,  now  held  for  life  by  John  de  INIetham  with  reversion 
to  the  said  Roger  and  his  heirs.     Witnesses  and  date  {as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charters,  29  June. 

July  2.  William  Reynboud  prior  of  St.  Mary  Lancastre  to  John  de  Ipre 

Westminster,  knight,  William   de  Horneby  clerk,  John  de  Lancastre  clerk,  William 

de  Hexham  and  Richard   de  Wynkele.     Recognisance  for  500Z.,   to 

be    levied,   in   default   of    payment,  of   his   lands   and   chattels   and 

ecclesiastical  goods  in  Lancashire. 

July  2.  Andrew  Pr^^k  of  Winchester  to  Maud  de  Burton.    Recognisance  for 

Westminster.  43  marks  payable  by  instalments  ;  to  be  levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  tlie  county  of  Suthampton. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Andrew 
pay  7  marks  at  Whitsuntide  next,  7  marks  at  Whitsuntide  following, 
and  7  marks  65.  8rf.  at  Whitsuntide  following. 

Writing  of  Thomas  son  of  Andrew  de  Walden  of  Essex,  cousin  and 
heir  of  Thomas  de  Caumbrigge,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Adam  Fraunceys 
and  John  Doget  citizens  of  London  of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services 
in  the  town  of  Kensyngton  co.  Middlesex  sometime  of  the  said  Thomas 
de  Caumbrigge  which  the  said  Adam  and  John  lately  had  by  gift  and 

OR  7 


98 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


13()9.  Membrane  \5d — cont. 

feoffment  of  Robert  de  Bassyngbourne  and  Maigaret  his  wife  some- 
time wife  of  the  said  Tliomas  de  Caumbrigge  for  hfe  of  the 
said  Margaret,  and  which  ought  after  her  death  to  descend  to  the 
said  Thomas  son  of  Andrew.  Witnesses  :  W'ilham  Halden,  John 
Pyel,  John  Osekyn,  Walter  Frowyk,  John  Maryns.  Dated  London, 
Saturday  after  Midsummer  43  Edward  IIL 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  July. 

Charter  of  Roger  de  Northhalle  of  Ledes,  giving  with  warranty  to 
Sir  Walter  Power  clerk,  Richard  Gates  and  Thomas  de  Barneby 
parson  of  Heton,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  lands,  meadows  and  rents 
of  the  said  Roger  wliatsoever  in  tlie  toA^Ti  of  Doncastre  and  Bentley, 
granting  them  also  \\itli  like  warranty  the  reversion  of  two  bovates 
of  land  in  Sprotburgh  by  Doncastre  now  held  for  life  by  John  de 
Metham  with  reversion  to  the  said  Roger  and  his  heirs.  Witnesses  : 
James  de  Raygate,  Jolm  Power,  John  Frere  of  Doncastre,  Gregory 
Vavasour,  Richard  de  Clareburgh  chaplain,  Robert  de  Ledes.  Dated 
London,  the  feast  of  St.  Peter  and  St.  Paul  1369. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  29  June. 

Writing  indented  of  Roger  Saperton,  being  a  demise  with  warranty 
to  Roger  Northdon,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  from  tliis  date  to  Michaelmas  in 
September  next  and  thenceforward  for  one  year  and  8  days,  of  his  posses- 
sion of  the  Flete  with  the  king's  common  place  of  pleas  and  the  exchequer, 
to  have  the  lessor's  office  there  with  the  wages  to  be  rendered  to  the 
said  office  from  the  sheriffs  of  London,  the  rents  and  services  of  all 
tenants  in  London  and  the  suburb  thereof  to  be  rendered  to  the 
warden  of  the  Flete,  and  all  fees  and  profits  of  the  said  places  arising 
and  to  the  said  warden  pertaining,  as  well  wages  for  keeping  the 
palace  as  for  tlie  premises.  Dated  London,  Friday  after  St.  Peter 
and  St.  Paul  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  July. 

Charter  of  Valentine  atte  Mede,  giving  with  warranty  to  William 
de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the  manor 
of  Henton  co.  Suthampton  with  woods,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures, 
waters,  ponds,  fish  ponds,  fisheries,  rents  etc.  thereto  belonging. 
Witnesses  :  Sir  Bernard  Brocas,  Sir  Robert  Markaunt  knights,  John 
Romyn,  Simon  atte  Grevette,  Thomas  Stake.  Dated  Westminster, 
6  July  43  Edward  III. 

Memoi-andum  of  acknowledgment,   6  July. 

July  6.  Thomas    de    Mapelton    and    Thomas   Fymmere    to    Richard    Basy 

Westminster,  and  Thomas  Gra  of  York.     Recognisance  for  20/.,  to  be  levied,  in 
default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Yorkshire. 


July  14.  John   Chareman    to   Jolm    Bataile 

Westminster,  for  70/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  [ 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


of   Manewedon.     Re<!ognisance 


Membrane  14c/. 

Writing  of  John  de  Goldington,  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Goldinton 
knight,    being   a   quitclaim   with   bond   for   warranty   to   Robert   de 

*  The  county  left  blank. 


43    EDWARD    IIT.  99 


1369.  Membrane  lid — cont. 

Bradenham  and  his  lieirs  of  tlie  manor  of  Sprinp;efeld  with  the 
advowson  of  a  niediety  of  the  church,  being  now  in  possession  of 
the  said  Robert  by  virtue  of  a  lease  to  him  made  for  a  term  of  years 
by  Jolin  de  Leibuin  and  Robeit  Litle  of  Tjondon,  to  whom  he  the 
said  John  the  son  by  charter  dated  Sumiay  tlie  feast  of  All  Saints  40 
Edward  III  gave  the  premises  \\ith  bond  for  warranty  to  them  and 
their  heirs,  an  indenture  between  tiie  parties  of  that  same  date  not- 
witlistanding,  being  a  defeasance  of  his  said  feoffment  upon  certain 
conditions  therein  contained.  Witnes.ses  :  Sir  Hugh  de  Badewe,  William 
de  Wauton,  Thomas  Maundeville  knights,  Ricliard  l)uck,\\'illiam  Nobat, 
William  de  C'hainel,  Geoft'rey  Colvile,  Richard  Stace,  William  Prentiz. 
Dated  Springefeld.  Sunday  before  Midsummer  43  Edward  III.       French. 

Wilting  of  John  son  of  Jolm  de  CJoldington  knight  {ynilitis),  being 
a  bond  to  Robert  de  Bradenham  and  his  assigns  in  400^.  received  as 
a  loan,  payable  in  Springefeld  church  on  the  feast  of  the  Purification 
next.  Dated  Springefeld,  Thursday  after  the  Conversion  of  St.  Paul 
43  Edward  III. 

Charter  of  John  son  and  heir  of  Sir  John  de  Goldyngton  knight 
{militis),  giving  with  warranty  to  Robert  de  Bradenham,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  a  hall  with  chambers  attached  and  a  kitchen  in  the  manor 
of  Springefeld,  the  soil  whereon  those  houses  are  built,  the  gardens 
of  the  said  manor,  free  ingress  and  egrees,  and  the  reversions  to  him 
the  said  John  pertaining  whatsoever  as  well  for  term  of  life  as  of  years. 
Witnesses  :  Sir  Hugh  de  Bradewe  (sic)  knight,  Richard  Duck,  Richard 
Stace,  WiUiam  Nobat,  William  Chainel,  Oeoffrey  Colvile,  Edmund  Lyon. 
Dated  Springefeld,  Monday  after  Whitsuntide  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  ackno\\  ledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
>vTitings  by  John  de  Goldyngton,  21  June. 

Writing  of  John  son  and  heir  of  William  de  Enefeld,  granting  with 
warranty  to  John  Bampton  and  John  Lepyngeden,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  20/.,  to  be  taken  of  all  the  lands  of  the  said 
Jolm  de  Enefeld  in  the  towns  of  Little  Laufare,  Morton  and  Rothing 
Beauchamp  co.  Essex  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions, 
with  power  to  distrain  for  anears  ;  and  he  has  paid  them  If/,  in  name 
of  seisin.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Gilbert  de  Stanford,  Sir  John  Pekkebregge 
knights,  Thomas  de  Leighs,  Thomas  filz  Richard,  Thomas  Rocheford, 
Nicholas  filz  Richard,  Simon  Pecche.  Dated  Little  Laufare,  Thursday 
before  Midsummer  43  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  22  June. 

June  30.         John  Bullok  of  London  '  tapicer  '  to  Master  Richard  Charles.  Recog- 
Westminster.  nisance  for  100/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 

Writing  of  John  Mautravers  of  la  Hoke,  being  a  quitclaim  to 
Thomas  de  Oldyngton  clerk  and  Robert  de  Erboroghfeld  clerk,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  manor  of  WestAvyttenham  called  '  le 
Dounecourt '  co.  Berkshire,  which  the  said  Thomas  and  Robert  hold  of 
the  gift  and  feoffment  of  the  said  John.  Dated  Westminster,  3  July 
43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  July. 


100  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1369,  Membrane  lid — cont. 

July  1.  Henry    Stormy    to    Thomas    de    Hungerford.     Recogniwance    for 

Westminster.  400  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  hi.s  lands  and  cliattels 
in  Wiltesir. 

Cancelled  on  'payment. 

July  L  Thomas    de    Hungerford    to    Henry    Stormy.     Recognisance    for 

Westminster.  40  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Wiltesir. 

July  4.  Robert  Weye  and  Roger  Northdon  of  Devon  to  William  de  Wake- 

Westminster,  brigge  and  Roger  de  Saperton.     Joint  and  several  recognisance  for 
2001.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Devon. 

July  4.  Roger  Northdon  to  Robert  Weye.     Recognisance  for  300/.,  to  be 

Westminster,  levied  etc.  in  l)evon. 

^^'riting  of  Jolm  son  and  lieir  of  Robert  de  Barton,  otherwise  called 
Chamberleyn,  being  a  quitclaim  «ith  warranty  to  Helmyng  Leget, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manors  of  Austebourne  Wode  and 
Cliillyngwode  and  all  other  lands  in  the  isle  of  Wight  held  by  the 
said  Helmyng.     Dated  Westminster,  4  July  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  July. 

July  17.  William   Strete  and  Walter  Barde  to  Richard  de  Ravenser  clerk. 

Westminster.  Joint  and   several   recognisance   for   200/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  tlieir  lands  and  chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 

Membrane  \M. 

June  11.  To  the  sheriH  of  York.  Order  to  cause  Thomas  de  Musgrave  and 
Westminster.  Simon  de  Heselarton,  knights  of  the  shire  at  the  parliament  summoned 
at  Westminster  at  the  octaves  of  Trinity  last,  to  liave  of  the  commons 
of  the  county  within  liberties  and  witliout,  cities  and  boroughs  excepted, 
8/.  for  their  expenses  in  coming  to  the  said  parliament,  there  abiding 
and  thence  returning,  namely  is.  a  day  each  for  20  days. 
The  following  have  the  like  writs  : 

Westmorland.     Gilbert   de   Suwen   and   John   de   Derwentwatre 

8/.  165.  for  22  days. 
Devon.     Richard  de  Merton  and  Robert  Cornu  the  same. 
Lancashire.     John  de  Dalton  and  John  de  Ipre  the  same. 
W^orcestershire.     John  de  Harleye  and  Nicholas  Morhalle  1125. 

for  14  days. 
Wiltesir.     Robert  de  la  Mare  and  John  Thorp  the  same. 
Dorset.     John  Chedyok  and  Thomas  Brudeport  the  same. 
Roteland.     John  Boyville  and  William  Beaufou  the  same. 
Derbyshire.     Godfrey  Foljambe  and  Robert  de  Twyford  the  same. 
Notinghamshire.     Robert   de   Morton    and    William   de   Stielley 

the  same. 
Norffolk.     Robert  de  Mortymer  and  Richard  de  Holdych  the  same. 
Warwickshire.     John  de  Peyto,  son  of   William   de   Peyto,    and 
-^  •— «a^  Robert  de  Stafford  the  same. 

^^^'^'^     TT     *~  ^^J^*.  Leycestreshire.     John  Talbot  and  Thomas  de  Oudeby  the  same. 

•^.,s«-   0'       ^^'-''^'^'a"-^  Cumberland.     WilHam   Lengleys  and   Robert  Moubray   9/.    125. 

'^  >:?\  for  24  days. 

^^^         Cornwall.     Otto  Bodrugan  and  John  Tremaen  the  same. 
^    ^    ^   t~^  ^  ,       '^'?^\        Herefordshire.     Richard  de  la  Bere  and  John  Eynesford  knight 

L I B  R  A  R  Y     }     ^^-  ^'-  ^°'  1^  ^^y^- 


43    EDWARD    III.  101 


1369.  Membrane  \3d — cont. 

Staffordshire.     John  Verdon  and  WiUiain  del  Wode  the  same. 
Somerset.     Edmund  Cheyne  and  Matthew  de  Clyvedon  the  same. 
Salop.     William  Carles  and  Biian  Cornewayll  the  same. 
Gloucestershire.     John  Poyntz  and  John  Tracy  the  same. 
Lincolnshire.     Edmimd  de  Cornubia  and  Thomas  de  Fulnetby 

the  same. 
Kent.     Thomas   Apuldrefeld    and    Thomas    Couen   il.    165.    for 

12  days. 
Norhamptonsliire.     John  Verdon  and  \Villiam  de  Quenton  the  same. 
Oxfordsliiie.    Roger  de  Elinerugge  and  Roger  de Cotesford  the  same. 
Berkshire.     John  Foxle  and  John  Trillowe  the  same. 
Bukinghamshire.     Fulk  de  Bermyngeham  and  Thomas  de  Keynes 

the  same. 
Bedfoidshire.     John  Ragoun  and  John  Dakeneye  the  same. 
Suthampton  county.     Bernard  Brocas  and  Philip  Pohham  (sic) 

the  same. 
Sussex.     Andrew  Sakevyle  and  Jolm  Waleys  the  same. 
Suffolk.     Thomas  Vydeleu  and  Robert  Bacoun  the  same. 
Middlesex.     Thomas  Frowyk  and  John  Wroth  the  younger  64s. 
Essex.     Thomas  Tirel  and  Robert  de  Marny  il.  for  10  days. 
Hertfordshire.     Nicholas  Golofre  and  John  Henxteworth  the  same. 
Surrey.     Simon  de  Codyngton  and  Ralpli  Thurbarn  the  same. 
Cambridgeshire.     John   Cheyne   and    Richard    Muschet    14    and 

165.  {sic)  for  12  days. 
Huntingdonshire.    Robert  Bavouse  and  John  de  Wauton  the  same. 
[Prynne.    Parliamentary    Writs,   iv.   278.] 

June  11.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Oxford.     Order  to  cause 

Westminster.  William  de  Codesale  and  John  Gibbes,  burgesses  of  the  town  coming 
to  the  same  parliament,  to  have  of  the  commonalty  of  the  town  48s. 
for  their  expenses,  namely  2^.  a  day  each  for  12  days. 
The  following  have  the  like  writs  for  their  wages  : 

Worcester  city.     Thomas  de  Lichefteld  and  Thomas  de  CUfton 

565.  for  14  days. 
Briggewater  town.     John  Lof  and  Adam    Leybourne  the  same. 
Notyngham    town.     Thomas   de   Morewode    and    Peter    Masoun 

the  same. 
Derby  town      John  de  Brakkeley  and  William  Glasiere  the  same. 
Appelby  town.     Robert  Overdo  and  Thomas  Baye  4  and  45.  {sic) 

for  22  days. 
Norhampton  town.     Lawrence  de  Haddon  and  Walter  de  Preston 

485.  for  12  days. 
Bedeford    town.   John    Boryate    and    John    Ampthull    485.    for 

12  days. 
Grenstede   town.     Thomas   Eston   and   Geoffrey   Cook    40s.   for 
10  days. 
{Ihid.  p.  281,  omitting  Worcester  city.] 

Membrane  I2d. 

July  19.  John   Boys   of    Great   Dunmowe   to   William   de   Fulburne    clerk. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  lOOl.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  paj'ment,  of  liis 
lands  and  chattels  in  Essex. 

Charter  indented,  made  at  London  on  Saturday  after  St.  Margaret 
43     Edward     III,    between    John    Boys   of    Great    Dunmowe     and 


102  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1S69.  Membrane  I2d — cont. 

William  de  Fulbiirno  clerk,  witnessing  that  the  said  John  has  given  to 
the  said  William,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  ail  his  lands,  rents  and  services  of 
tenants,  free  men  and  neifs,  in  the  town  and  fields  of  Fulburne  co. 
Cantebrigge  sometime  of  John  Olyve  with  the  advowson  of  the  church 
of  St.  Vigor  Fulbunie,  liberties  of  folds  and  other  rights  etc..  in 
exchange  for  a  messuage,  27  acres  of  land,  7  acres  of  wood,  9  acres  of 
meadow,  7  acres  of  pasture,  Is.  2d.  of  rent  in  the  towns  of  Stanstede 
Abbots  and  Honesdon  co.  Hertford  to  be  by  the  said  William  given  to 
the  said  John,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  upon  condition  that  if  the  said 
William,  his  heirs  or  any  claiming  fee  tail  by  gift  made  to  any  of  the 
ancestors  of  the  said  William  shall  implead  the  said  John,  his  heirs 
or  any  tenants  of  the  premises  so  as  to  recover  the  same  in  whole  or 
in  part,  or  so  that  they  shall  be  by  them  thrust  out  of  the  same  in 
whole  or  in  part,  it  shall  thenceforward  be  lawful  for  the  said  John  and 
his  heirs  to  enter  again  and  hold  the  premises  in  their  former  estate 
this  charter  notwithstanding ;  and  witnessing  that  the  said  WilUam 
has  hereby  given  to  the  said  John,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  all  the 
lands  etc.  aforesaid  in  Stanstede  Abbots  and  Honesdon  in  exchange 
for  the  piemises  in  Fulburne  to  be  by  the  said  John  given  to  the  said 
William,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  upon  condition  that  if  the  said  John, 
his  heirs  or  any  claiming  fee  tail  by  gift  made  to  any  of  the  ancestors  of 
the  said  John  shall  implead  the  said  William,  his  heirs  or  any  tenants 
of  the  premises  so  as  to  recover  the  same  in  whole  or  in  part,  or  so 
that  they  shall  by  them  be  thrust  out  of  the  same  in  whole  or  in  part, 
it  shall  thenceforward  be  lawful  for  the  said  William  and  his  heirs 
to  enter  again  and  hold  in  their  former  estate  the  premises  herein- 
before described,  this  charter  notwithstanding  ;  and  further  witnessing 
that  so  long  as  the  said  William,  his  heirs  or  other  the  tenants  shall 
peaceably  hold  the  premises  to  be  given  him  as  aforesaid  without 
such  recovery  or  ejectment,  the  foregoing  recognisance  shall  remain 
without  execution,  but  otherwise  it  shall  be  put  in  execution  forthwith. 
Witnesses  :  William  de  Rokesburgh,  John  \^'3^sshele,  John  Lammer, 
John  Prime,  William  '  in  the  Netherstrete,'  WilUam  Hanyfeld. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  21  July. 

Indenture  made  at  London  on  Thursday  the  eve  of  St.  Margaret 
43  Edward  III,  between  John  Boys  of  Great  Dunmowe  and  William 
de  Fulburne  clerk,  being  a  grant  and  surrender  by  the  said  John  to  the 
said  William,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  said  John's  estate  in  a 
messuage,  27  acres  of  land,  7  acres  of  wood,  9  acres  of  meadow,  7  acres 
of  pasture,  75.  2d.  of  rent  in  the  towns  of  Stanstede  Abbots  and 
Honesdon  co.  Hertford,  which  he  the  said  John  holds  for  his  life  of 
the  said  WiUiam  by  his  demise  with  reversion  to  the  said  William  and 
his  hehs.     AVitnesses  (as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  John  Boys,  21  July. 

Charter  of  John  de  Scotherskelf  clerk,  giving  with  warranty  to 
William  de  Gryselaye  and  John  de  Plouseld  chaplains  and  to  John 
Vyncent  of  London,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  his  manor  of  Skelton  by 
York  with  the  appurtenances,  commodities  and  easements,  namely  in 
woods,  moors,  meadows,  pastures,  turbaries,  agistments,  wards,  reliefs, 
suits,  escheats,  services  of  free  tenants  and  profits  whatsoever  to  the 
same  belonging,  his  wood  of  Hordern  and  laund  of  Corteburne,  and 
the  boonworks  to  the  said  manor  belonging.  Witnesses  :     William  de 


43  EDWARD  III.  103 


13fi0.  Membrane  I2d — cont. 

Aton,  Robert  de  RouclifTe  knights,  ^^'illiam  de  Ncssefeld,  William  de 
Meryngton,  Thomas  Loveli,  Richard  Bernard,  John  de  Holand,  Thomas 
de  Spaigne.  Dated  Skelton  by  York,  Sunday  the  feast  of  St.  Mary 
Magdalene  43  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  23  July. 

Indenture  of  covenant  made  between  Sir  Walter  Palmere  rector  of 
Great  Greneford  in  the  diocese  of  London  and  Sir  ^Villiam  atte  Crosse 
rector  of  St.  Clement  Danes  without  Temple   Bar  London,   namely 
that  Sir  Walter  has  sold  to  Sir  William  all  fruits,  rents,  proventions, 
tithes,    commodities   and    obventions    to    his   said   church    arising    or 
belonging  for  three  years  from  Michaelmas  next,  rendering  and  paying 
yearly  to  the  said  Walter  or  to  his  proctor  producing  in  the  church  of 
St.  Clement  Danes  one  part  of  these  indentures  sealed  by  the  said 
William  23  marks  a  year  at  the  Purification,  Midsummer  and  Michael- 
mas by  even  portions,  the  first  payment  beginning  at  the  Purification 
1 370  ;    that  in  the  last  year  of  his  said  term  the  said  William  shall 
leave  the  glebe  and  church  land  in  competent  tillage,  fallowing  such 
as  ought  to  be  followed  at  the  reasonable  and  accustomed  time  ;    that 
the  said  William  shall  at  his  own  cost  maintain  the  houses,  walls  and 
buildings  of  Greneford  rectory  all  the  said  term,  leaving  them  in  as 
good  estate  as  he  received  them  or  better,  saving  tempest  or  other 
accident  not  due  to  his  negUgence  ;    that  he  shall  find  a  parochial 
chaplain  celebrating  there  and  ministering  to  the  parishioners  all  the 
said  term,  shall  bear  all  ordinary  charges  incumbent  on  that  church, 
not  being  in  any  wise  charged  with  extraordinary  charges  ;    that  if  he 
shall  be  in  default  in  payment  of  the  money  aforesaid  in  whole  or  in 
part,  touching  which  matter  credence  shall  be  given  to  the  said  Walter, 
and  it  shall  rest  upon  his  assertion  without  other  proof,  the  sum  remain- 
ing to  be  paid  shall  be  doubled  and  truly  paid  in  name  of.  a  pain  as 
often  as  there  shall  be  default  at  any  term,  nor  may  the  said  William 
help  himself  to  avoid  such  payment  by  secular  or  ecclesiastical  court, 
and  nevertheless  in  case  of  default  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  said  Walter 
after  fifteen  days  freely  to  dispose  of  the  fruits  etc.  then  collected  or  to 
be  collected  as  he  shall  see  best  without  gainsaying  of  the  said  William ; 
and  that  if  the  said  Walter  shall  die  or  vacate  his  said  church  or  resign 
the  same  by  reason  of  exchange  or  otherwise  during  the  said  term,  he 
and  his  executors  are  bound  to  save  the  said  William  harmless  in  that 
behalf  so   that  he  be   not  thereby  aggrieved.     The  parties  are  sworn 
to   observe  the   premises,   and  mutually   bound   nevertheless  to   the 
jurisdiction,  distraint  and  coercion  of  any  judge  ecclesiastical  or  secular. 
Dated  London,  the  feast  of  St.  Margaret  43  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  23  July. 

July  20.  W'illiam  Gamboun  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  king's  chamber  is  sent 

Westminster,  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Coventre,  to  have  such  maintenance  in 

that  house  as  Agnes  Augnet  lately  deceased  had  there  at  the  king's 

request.  By  p.s.     [27943.] 

July  18.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  suffer 

Westminster.  WilUam  Spaldyng  the  king's  bailiff  of  Eltham  to  have  the  respite  which 
for  particular  causes  the  king  has  given  him  until  the  quinzaine  of 
Michaelmas  next  for  payment  of  lOOs.  demanded  of  him  by  exchequer 
summons  of  the  arrears  of  his  account  for  the  first  year  he  was  bailiff 
there,  releasing  any  distress  made  for  that  cause. 


I 


1U4  CALENDAB  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1309.  Membrane  \\d. 

Cliaiter  of  Thomas  Tyldcrlc^h  of  London  '  goldsuiyth,'  giving  with 
wiinanty  to  Walter  Rauel  and  Joan  his  wife,  the  heii'S  and  assigns 
of  the  said  Walter,  a  croft  of  land  called  Northcroft  in  Catestok  co. 
Dorset  ;  and  hecause  the  seal  of  the  said  Thomas  is  to  many  unknown 
he  has  procured  the  seals  of  Guy  de  Briene  knight  and  of  Peter  Blount 
to  be  also  attached.  Witnesses  :  John  de  Frompton,  Hugh  de  Stroude, 
Kdmund  de  Stroude,  John  Chauntemarlc,  John  de  Kentecombe. 
Dated  Sunday  after  the  Translation  of  St.  Thomas  43  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Tylderlegh  of  London  '  goldsmyth,'  being  a 
quitclaim  witli  w  arranty  to  Walter  Rauel  and  Joan  his  wife,  the  lieirs 
and  assigns  of  the  said  Walter,  of  all  his  lands,  meadows  and  pastures 
in  Catestok  co.  Dorset,  all  which  except  one  croft  of  land  called  North- 
croft are  by  his  demise  now  held  of  him  by  the  said  Walter  and  Joan 
and  John  their  son  for  their  lives  and  the  life  of  the  longest  liver  with 
reversion  to  him  the  said  Thomas,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  as  appears  by 
an  indenture  between  them  made  ;  and  because  the  seal  etc.  (as  the 
last).  Witnesses  :  (as  the  last).  Dated  Monday  after  the  Translation 
of  St.  Thomas  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  17  July. 

Writing  of  William  Rocke  chaplain,  uncle  of  Thomas  Tylderlegh  of 
London  '  goldsmyth,'  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Walter 
Rauel  and  Joan  his  wife,  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  Walter,  of 
all  the  lands,  meadows  and  pastures  in  Catestok  co.  Dorset  which 
were  of  the  said  Thomas  ;  and  because  the  seal  of  him  the  said  WilUam 
etc.  (as  above).  Witnesses  {as  above).  Dated  Sunday  before  St. 
Kenelm  43  EdAvard  III. 
•        Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  17  July. 

July  1(3.  Fulk  de  Penbrugge  knight  of  Salop,  Robert  de  Whitteney  knight 

Westminster,  of    Herefordshu'e    and    Robert    de    Penbrugge   of    Salop   to   Queen 

Philippa.     Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  84/.    lid.   payable  by 

instalments  ;    to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and 

chattels  in  the  counties  aforesaid. 

Indenture  made  between  Jolin  de  Paddebury  and  Alice  his  wife 
of  the  one  part,  and  Nicholas  de  Exton,  Richard  atte  Gate  and  John 
Wade  of  the  other  part,  witnessing  that  whereas  by  fine  levied  in  the 
king's  court  the  said  John  and  Alice  are  bound  in  20/.  of  yearly  rent 
payable  to  the  said  Nicholas,  Richard  and  John  Wade  for  their  lives  of  the 
lands  in  the  said  fine  comprised  at  four  terms  in  the  year,  namely 
IOO5.  a  term,  the  said  Nicholas,  Richard  and  John  Wade  grant  that  after 
the  death  of  the  said  Nicholas  and  of  Katherine  his  wife  the  said  John 
and  Alice,  their  heirs  and  the  tenants  of  the  said  lands  shall  be  dis- 
charged of  the  said  rent,  that  at  whatsoever  term  or  within  one  month 
after  the  said  John  and  Alice,  their  heirs  and  the  tenants  aforesaid 
shall  pay  50s.,  they  shall  be  discharged  of  the  residue  for  that  term, 
and  so  from  term  to  term  during  the  lives  of  the  said  Nicholas  and 
Katherine.  and  that  if  there  be  default  at  any  term  after  one  month  the 
said  Nicholas,  Richard  and  John  Wade  shall  have  IOO5.,  but  default  at 
one  term  shall  not  affect  other  terms.  Dated  London,  10  February 
43  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  16  July. 


43    EDWARD    111. 


105 


1360.  Membrane  lid — cont. 

Iiidentuio  made  between  William  Oliieye,  Hem y  Hale  and  Thomcaa 
Vyily  of  the  oiu'  j)art  and  J(.)lin  I'adl)iny  and  Alice  his  wife  of  the  other 
part,  witnessing  that  the  said  William,  Hemy  and  Thomas  have 
hereby  given  to  the  said  John  and  Alice  and  to  the  heirs  of  the  said  Alice 
a  messuage,  140  acres  of  land,  7  acres  of  meadow,  15  acres  of  pasture 
and  40s.  of  rent  in  the  parish  of  St.  Giles  without  the  Old  Temple 
London,  and  the  reversion  of  (iO  acres  of  land  and  7  acres  of  meadow 
in  the  parish  of  St.  Pancrasin  Kcntisslitoun  now  held 'by  Walter  Walssh, 
Robert  Gayton  and  (Jilbert  Neel  chaplain  for  their  lives,  Peter  Turk 
and  Juliana  his  wife,  rendering  to  the  said  William,  Henry  and 
Thomas,  tlieir  heirs  and  assigns,  10/.  a  year  during  the  lives  of  Nicholas 
de  Exton  and  Katherine  his  wife  at  four  terms  in  the  year,  namely 
Michaelmas.  Christmas,  Easter  and  Midsummer  by  even  portions  at 
the  house  of  the  said  Nicholas  in  the  parish  of  St.  IMary  atte  Hulle 
London,  with  power  to  the  said  William.  Henry  and  Thomas  to  enter 
again  and  hold  the  premises  in  their  former  estate  in  case  the  said 
rent  or  any  part  thereof  be  in  arrear  thirteen  -weeks  after  any  term, 
and  covenant  that  they  or  the  receiver  in  their  name  will  seal  an 
acquittance  for  every  payment,  bearing  the  date  of  the  term  for  which 
it  is  made.  Witnesses  :  Thomas  Frowyk,  John  Charleton,  John 
Wroth.  John  Shordich,  John  Boterwyk,  Roger  Legat,  Peter  Bocher. 
Dated  the  parish  of  St.  Giles  aforesaid,  14  July  43  Edward  III.  French. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  16  July. 

July  20.  Nicholas    Farndon,    William    Pynewygel,    William    Boho,    William 

Westminster.  Marcant  and  John  North  to  Queen  Philipi)a.  Joint  and  several 
recognisance  for  160/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their 
lands  and  chattels  in  Kent. 


Membrane  lOd. 

July  27.  Thomas  de  Veer  earl  of  O.xford  and  chamberlain  of  England   to 

Westminster.  John  de  Sutton  the  younger  knight,  John  de  Pelham  clerk  and  Thomas 
Tuwe.     Recognisance  for  2,000/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Essex. 

Indenture  made  between  Thomas  de  Veer  earl  of  Oxford  and 
chamberlain  of  England  of  the  one  part  and  Sir  John  de  Sutton  the 
elder  knight,  Sir  John  de  Sutton  the  younger  knight.  Sir  John  de 
Pelham  clerk  and  Thomas  Tuwe  of  the  other  part,  witnessing  that 
whereas  the  said  Sir  John  de  Sutton  the  elder  and  his  party  have  by 
charter  enfeoffed  the  said  earl  and  his  heirs  of  the  manor  of  Laughton 
CO.  Sussex  with  the  hundred  of  Sheplak,  and  of  the  manor  of 
Marketoverton  co.  Rotelaud,  and  whereas  the  said  earl  is  bound  to 
i  Sir  John  the  younger  and  others  in  2,000/.  by  the  foregoing  recognisance, 

the  parties  are  agreed  that  if  the  said  earl,  his  heirs  or  executors  or 
any  in  their  name  shall  pay  to  Sir  John  the  younger  and  the  others 
or  one  of  them  or  to  the  executors  of  the  survivor  at  Colne  1,000  marks 
at  Easter  in  the  year  next  to  come  and  454/.  IQs.  8d.  at  Easter 
following,  the  said  manors  and  hundred  shall  remain  to  him  the  said 
earl  and  to  his  heirs  for  ever  according  to  the  said  charter,  the  recog- 
nisance shall  be  void,  and  the  said  John  the  j^ounger  and  the  others 
shall  be  bound  to  annul  it,  and  if  the  said  earl,  his  heirs  and  executors 
shall  make  default,  the  said  charter  shall  be  void  and  the  recognisance 
in  force,  and  it  shall  be  lawful  for  Sir  John  the  elder  and  the  others 
and  for  their  heirs  to  enter  again  and  hold  the  said  manors  and  hundred 
in  their  former  estate  ;    and  the  said  earl  grants  that  Sir  John  the 


106 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


LSOO.  Membrane  lOd — cont. 

elder  and  the  others,  their  ministers  and  assigns,  may  until  Midsummer 
next  year  enter  upon  the  crop  of  coiii  growing  uj)(jii  the  lands  of  the 
said  manors,  with  free  ingress  and  egress  to  the  granges  thereof,  that 
they  may  at  will  take,  carry  and  drive  away  their  other  goods  and 
chattels  which  they  now  have  therein  between  this  and  Michaelmas 
next,  and  that  they  may  levy  arrears  to  them  due,  also  that  they 
shall  have  all  profits  of  the  said  manors  as  soon  and  as  fully  as  the 
said  earl's  niinistcis  shall  levy  the  same  whether  by  farm  before  paid  for 
certain  years  or  otherwise  until  the  aforesaid  debt  be  fully  paid, 
allowing  in  part  payment  thereof  as  much  as  they  shall  so  receive. 
Dated  29  July  43  Edward  IlL     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  as  well  by  the  said  earl  as  by 
John  de  Pelham  and  "Jliomas  Tuwe,  30  July. 

July  31.         William    de    Monte    Acuto    earl    of    Sahsbury    to    Thomas    de 
Westminster.  Newenham  clerk.      Recognisance  for  500  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Somerset. 

Indenture  made  between  William  de  Monte  Acuto  earl  of 
Salisbury  and  Thomas  de  Newenham  clerk,  being  a  defeasance  of  the 
foregoing  recognisance,  made  as  security  for  the  freedom  of  Richard 
son  of  Hugh  Loksmyth  of  Aston  Clinton  co.  Bukingham  and  of  his 
issue,  whom  the  said  earl  by  his  writing  has  manumitted  and  altogether 
.  set  free  from  the  yoke  of  servitude,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Richard 
nor  his  issue  shall  never  be  grieved  by  the  said  earl  nor  by  his  heirs 
in  time  to  come  contrary  to  the  said  manumission.  Dated  London, 
1  August  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  Thomas  de  Newenham  in  the 
chancery  at  London,  1  August. 

July  26.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  stay  the  taking  of  the  bodies 
Westminster,  of  William  Barbour  and  Alice  his  wife,  and  if  they  are  taken  to  set 
them  free  from  prison  by  the  mainprise  of  William  Swalweclyve, 
John  Yonge,  William  Leycestre,  John  Hampstede,  Andrew  Grauncourt 
and  John  Bemshull  of  London,  bringing  tiiis  writ  before  the  justices 
of  the  Bench  on  the  day  contained  in  a  writ  de  judicio  against  them  at 
the  suit  of  Joan  de  Irlonde  ;  as  on  behalf  of  the  said  William  Barbour 
and  Alice  prayer  is  made  to  the  king  for  a  stay  until  that  day,  shewing 
that  the  said  Joan  is  impleading  them  before  the  said  justices  for  an 
alleged  trespass,  and  that  by  the  said  writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered 
the  sheriffs  to  take  and  imprison  them  so  as  to  have  them  on  that  day 
before  the  said  justices  to  answer  her  thereupon,  for  that  on  the  day 
in  the  original  writ  named  they  came  not  to  answer,  and  shewing 
that  they  are  ready  so  to  answer  and  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ; 
and  the  said  mainpernors  appearing  in  person  in  chancery  have  main- 
pemed  under  a  pain  of  200/.  to  have  them  on  the  said  day  before  the 
said  justices  to  answer  as  aforesaid. 


Membrane  M. 

Indenture  made  between  the  kmg  of  the  one  part  and  Henry  de 
Brislee  and  John  de  Coloigne  of  the  other  part,  being  a  lease  for  15  years 
from  tliis  date  of  all  the  king's  mines  of  gold  and  silver  to  be  found 
in  Devenshire  and  Somersete,  to  Avit  in  Mils,  in  fields  and  in  waste 
places,  so  that  they  may  mine  and  dig  to  get  the  same  in  aU  places  where 
it  may  be  done  to  the  Idng's  best  profit  and  theirs,  save  beneath  any 


43    EDWARD    III.  107 


1360.  Membrane  9d — cont. 

man's  castles  manors  or  houses  without  licence  of  the  lords  thereof. 
If  it  be  for  such  profit  to  fall  trees  in  their  way  to  pioscculc  such  mine, 
or  to  enter  gardens  or  simple  closes  not  inhabited,  and  any  man  would  for 
envy  or  malice  gainsay  or  molest  tliem,  the  same  shall  be  praised  by  true 
men  of  the  country  and  the  price  shall  be  paid  in  their  presence  ;  no 
man  of  whatsoever  condition  shall  at  his  peril  meddle  in  such  mining 
during  the  said  term  save  the  said  lessees  or  their  attorneys  ;  all 
metal  (plate)  thereof  arising  which  belongs  to  them  shall  be  brought 
to  the  Tower  of  London  and  nowi)ere  else  to  make  money  thereof, 
and  the  ninth  part  which  belongs  to  the  king  shall  be  carried  to  the 
receipt  of  the  exchequer,  provided  always  that  the  king  shall  have 
to  hjs  share  for  his  seignorage  the  ninth  pound  of  all  such  metal 
of  gold  and  silver  thence  arising,  and  the  said  lessees  all  the  residue  of 
the  profit  for  all  maimer  of  labour  and  expense  by  them  and  their 
servants  incurred  thereupon  ;  the  sheriffs  of  the  said  counties  shall 
by  the  king's  commandment  and  b}'  writ  of  chancer}^  be  bound,  when 
any  considerable  quantity  of  metal  shall  be  ready  and  the  sheriff  shall 
be  warned  bj'  the  lessees  or  their  attorneys,  to  cause  them  to  have 
a  sure  escort  of  archers  as  far  as  London  at  the  lessees'  cost  in  meat 
and  drink  going  and  returning  for  fear  of  thieves  to  save  their  profit 
and  the  king's  ;  a  controller  shall  by  the  king  and  council  be  chosen 
to  abide  upon  the  mines,  and  shall  be  at  the  lessees'  cost,  to  ^it  1 01.  a  year 
or  less  and  no  more  payable  at  four  terms  in  the  year,  and  whenever 
they  shall  have  need  of  him  he  shall  by  command  of  the  king  and  council 
be  bound  to  aid  and  counsel  and  lal)our  for  them  for  the  king's  profit  and 
theirs  at  their  reasonable  cost ;  the  lessees  shall  be  bound  to  find  40  work- 
men, to  work  every  working  day  between  1  March  and  1  November,  or  a^ 
many  more  as  they  will  if  they  find  work  in  plenty,  to  wit  miners, 
heavers  (gettours),  smelters  and  carters,  and  all  manner  of  other  work- 
men pertaining  to  such  mines,  and  it  is  the  king's  wiU  that  all  men  of 
whatsoever  condition  who  will  work  therein  shall  be  free  toward  all 
men  so  long  as  they  will  do  so  ;  the  lessees  shall  have  for  them  and 
their  servants  all  hberties  which  the  mines  of  Bere  in  the  same  county 
(sic)  are  used  to  have  for  the  king's  profit  and  their  own,  and  their 
servants  shall  have  power  to  take  aU  manner  of  carriages  by  water 
and  land  for  reasonable  payment,  saving  the  fee  of  the  church  ;  they 
shall  have  commissions  and  writs  as  many  and  of  sucli  kind  as  they  shall 
please  or  as  need  shall  be,  paying  for  the  wax  and  writing  ;  if  any  man  of 
whatsoever  condition  shall  abuse  the  lessees  or  any  of  their  servants  to  the 
disturbance  of  their  work,  and  be  thereof  convicted,  he  shall  be  arrested 
and  brought  to  the  Tower  of  London  until  he  shall  recompense  the  king 
and  the  parties ;  the  king  promises  to  keep  covenant  with  the  lessees 
during  the  said  term  without  regard  to  any  profit  that  any  man  may 
promise  him,  granting  that  if  the  said  mines  fail  (as  may  be,  «  hich  God 
forbid),  and  that  shall  be  proved  and  known  by  true  men,  the  lessees, 
their  heirs  and  executors  shall  be  for  ever  quit  toward  the  king  and  liis 
heirs,  pro\'ided  always  they  shall  dig  and  heave  [gettre)  as  deep  as 
the  mine  may  be  found,  to  wit  that  all  their  workmen  however  many 
they  be  shall  have  sufficient  room  wherein  they  may  be  employed,  so  that 
they  may  lawfully  make  in  one  comitry  so  many  pits  as  shall  be  needed 
to  set  to  work  the  40  men,  or  more  if  more  there  be,  to  the  profit  of  the 
king  and  the  lessees  ;  whenever  the  lessees  or  their  attorneys  shall 
bring  to  the  exchequer  any  quantity  of  metal  great  or  smaU  of  the 
ninth  part  pertaining  to  the  king,  the}'  shall  by  indenture  to  be  made  be- 
tween them  and  the  controller  for  the  time  being  have  an  acquittance 


108  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1369.  Membrane  M — cont. 

every  time  ui»(lt'r  the  great  seal,  and  shall  never  more  be  impeached  nor 
charged  with  any  account  toward  the  king  but  for  so  much  metal  of 
gold  and  silver  as  the  controller  shall  by  indenture  charge  them  withal. 
Dated  Westminster,  15  July  43  Edward  III.     French. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Membrane  8d. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Bello  Campo  earl  of  Warrewyk  lord  of  Gower 
and  marshal  of  England,  being  a  (|uitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  de 
Bukyngham  now  bishop  of  Lincoln,  John  de  Bello  Campo,  Ralph 
Basset  of  Sapecote,  Bichard  de  Piryton,  Walter  de  Shakenhurst, 
Nicholas  (ijc)  de  Henton  and  John  le  Rous,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  in 
their  full  right,  seisin  and  possession  being,  of  the  castle  and  manors 
of  Elmele,  Great  Comberton,  Little  Comberton,  Wyke,  Pydele, 
Newenton  Beauchainp,  Piriton,  Power,  Wadbergh,  Stolton,  Crombe 
Adam,  Boeleghe,  Shirreveslench,  Sallewarp  and  Grafton  under  Flavel 
CO.  Worcester,  the  manors  of  Hasele  and  Asshorne,  co.  Warrewyk, 
Kymmerton  co.  Gloucester,  Spellesbury  co.  Oxford,  Asshstede  and 
Neudegate  co.  Surrey,  Stratford  Tony  and  Newenton  Tony  co.  Wiltesir, 
Melbroke  and  Esehole  co.  Kent,  a  messuage  with  garden  and  shops 
adjoining  and  other  appurtenances  in  the  cit}'  of  London  by  Neugate, 
the  manor  and  advowson  of  Chaddesle  Corbet  with  the  knights'  fees  etc. 
thereto  pertaining,  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Pirye  by  Worcester 
and  certain  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Wiche  and  Worcester,  10^.  of 
yearly  rent  payable  by  Edmund  de  Brugge  for  the  manors  of  Here- 
wynton  and  PurshuU  by  him  held  in  fee  tail  of  the  said  earl  and  the 
reversion  of  those  two  manors  for  lack  of  issue  of  the  said  Edmund, 
10  marks  of  yearly  rent  payable  by  Thomas  Coleman  for  the  manor  of 
Little  Intebegh  by  him  held  in  fee  tail  of  the  said  earl  and  the  reversion 
of  that  manor  for  lack  of  issue  of  the  said  Thomas,  and  of  the  reversion 
of  the  manors  of  Henle  in  Arderne,  Ilmyndon,  Gunthorp  and 
Hyndelep  with  the  knights'  fees,  advowsons  of  churches,  collations 
of  chapels  and  chantries  as  well  of  men  of  religion  as  secular,  and  all 
liberties,  warrens,  free  customs  etc.  thereto  belonging  ;  as  lately 
by  his  charter  the  said  earl  gave  to  the  said  bishop,  to  Robert  de  Herle, 
the  said  John  de  Bello  Campo,  Ralph,  Richard,  W^alter,  Nicholas 
and  John  Rous,  their  heirs  and  assigns  the  said  castle  and  manors 
of  Elmele,  Great  and  Little  Comberton,  Wyke,  Pydele,  Newenton 
Beauchamp,  Piriton,  Power,  Wadbergh,  Stolton,  Crombe  Adam, 
Boeleghe,  Shirreveslench,  Sallewarp,  Grafton,  Hasele,  Asshorne,  Kym- 
merton, Spellesbury,  Asshstede,  Neudegate,  Stratford  and  Newenton 
Tony,  Melbroke  and  Esehole,  the  premises  in  London,  the  said  rents 
and  reversions  of  Herewynton,  Purshull  and  Intebegh,  and  granted 
also  the  reversion  of  the  manors  of  Henle  in  Arderne,  Ilmyndon  and 
Gunthorp  held  for  life  b}'  Peter  de  Monte  Forti,  of  the  manor  and 
advow'son  of  Chaddesle  Corbet  with  the  knights'  fees  etc.  thereto 
pertaining  then  held  for  life  by  William  Corbet  knight,  of  the  manor 
of  H>Tidelep  and  certain  other  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Wych 
and  Worcester  held  for  life  by  Thomas  Cassy  of  Haddesore,  Robert  de 
Hyndelep  and  William  le  Cartere,  and  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Pyrie 
then  held  for  life  by  Roger  de  Grafton  and  Thomas  Robyns,  all  of  the  said 
earl's  heritage  with  reversion  to  him  and  liis  heirs,  the  reversion  whereof 
the  said  earl  by  the  same  charter  granted  to  the  said  bishop,  Robert, 
John,  Ralph,  Richard,  Walter,  Nicholas  and  John  Rous,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  having  had  full  attornment  and  intendance  of  the  said  tenants, 


43    EDWARD    III. 


109 


1309.  Memhrane  M — cont. 

the  said  Robert  de  Herle  and  Nicholas  de  Heiiton  are  now  dead,  the 
manor  of  Cliaddesle  Corbet  lias  come  to  the  hands  and  seisin  of  the  said 
bishop  and  other  the  survivors  by  the  death  of  William  Corbet  knight, 
the  premises  in  Wiche  and  Worcester  and  the  said  moiety  of  the  manor 
of  Pirye  by  the  death  of  tlie  said  Thomas  Cassy,  Roger  de  Grafton 
and  Thomas  Robyns,  and  by  virtue  of  the  feoffment  aforesaid. 
Witnesses  :  William  bishop  of  Winchester  the  chancellor,  Richard  earl 
of  Arundell,  William  de  Monte  Acuto  earl  of  .Salisbury,  John  de  Mohun 
lord  of  Dunsterre,  William  la  Zousche  lord  of  Harjnigvvorth.  Dated 
London,  28  August  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  before  the  said  chancellor  in  his 
lodging  at  Suthwerk,  26  August. 

Aug.  31.        William  Chauncy  to  Jordan  de  Barton.     Recognisance  for  24  mark.-?, 
Westminster,  to   be  levied,   in  default  of  pa^'ment,   of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Yorkshire. 

Writing  of  John  de  Foxcote  of  Gloucestershire,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Sir  Thomas  Hakeluyt,  William  Forde,  Robert  More 
and  William  Forester  clerks,  their  licirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor 
of  Merkhall  co  Essex.  Dated  London,  Friday  after  the  Beheading 
of  St.  John  the  Baptist  43  Edward  IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  before  the  chancellor  (as  above), 


31 


August. 


Sept.  10.         Henry  de  Percy  knight  to  Gilbert  de  Umfram\ille  earl  of  Anegos. 
Preston.       Recognisance  for  1,000  marks  payable  by  instalments  ;    to  be  levied, 
in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Yorkshire. 

Oct.  5.  John  de  Horwode  citizen  of  London  to  John  de  Chichestre  citizen 

Westminster,  of  London.     Recognisance  for  60/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  the  said  city. 
Memorandum  that  these  two  recognisances  were    received    by  the 
chancellor. 

Membrane  Id. 

Writing  of  John  Mannyng  fisher,  son  and  heir  of  William  Mannyng 
of  Chyngeford  co.  Essex,  being  a  grant  and  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  John  Biernes  citizen  of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the 
waters,  fisheries  and  river  banks  with  '  Neylondes  Fisshyngweres  ' 
and  all  appurtenances  and  commodities  thereto  belonging  in  the 
parishes  of  Chyngeford  and  Edelmeton  or  elsewhere  in  Essex  and 
Middlesex  wliich  the  said  John  Biernes  lately  had  of  the  gift  and 
feoffment  of  him  the  said  John  Mannjmg,  as  by  his  charter  may 
appear.  Witnesses  :  William  Pym,  John  Goldyng,  William  Salman, 
Peter  le  Rouwe,  Richard  Potter.  Dated  Edelmeton,  Thursday  the 
feast  of  St.  Luke  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  before  the  chancellor  at 
Westminster,  30  October. 


Oct.  26.  To  Ralph  Spigumell  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of  the 

Westminster.  Cinque  Ports,  or  to  his  lieutenant.  Order,  under  pain  of  forfeiture, 
on  sight  of  these  presents  to  cause  two  men  of  every  town  of  the  said 
ports  having  the  best  knowledge  of  foreign  parts  and  skill  in  the 
guiding  of  shipping,  merchants  and  merchandise  and  otherwise  to  be 
chosen  and  come  before  the  king  and  council  at  Westminster  in  the 


no  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1309.  Memhrane  Id — cont. 

octaves  of  St.  Martin  next  at  latest  in  order  to  give  them  counsel 
and  information  concerning  what  is  to  be  done  for  the  safety  of  ships, 
merchants  and  merchandise,  their  passage  to  and  fro  for  the 
advantage  of  the  realm  and  people  their  protection  against  the  king's 
adversaries  of  France  and  other  his  enemies  to  them  adhering,  and 
for  the  destruction  of  such  enemies,  bringing  thither  the  said  men's 
names  and  this  writ  ;  as  the  king  has  particular  information  that  the  said 
enemies  are  making  ready  with  a  host  of  ships  and  armed  men  to 
destroy  the  shipping  of  the  realm,  hinder  the  passage  of  merchants 
and  merchandise,  and  by  every  means  destroy  merchants  and  other  the 
king's  lieges  if  they  be  not  speedily  opposed  with  the  strong  hand  ;  and 
it  is  the  king's  will  to  resist  their  malice,  and  provide  so  far  as  he  may 
for  the  safety  of  ships,  merchants  and  merchandise. 

[  Feeder  a.] 

The  like  to  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Plymmuth  and  of  27  other 
cities  and  to\viis,  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London,  and  to  the  bailiffs 
of  Norwich. 

[Ibid.] 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Teynton  of  Coventre,  being  a  quitclaim  to  the 
king's  eldest  son  Edward  prince  of  Aquitaine  and  Wales  duke  of 
Comewaille  and  earl  of  Cestre  of  one  shop  with  appurtenances  in 
Erlestrete  Coventre  held  by  Richard  de  Stoke  and  William  de  Coreby. 
Witnesses  :  John  de  Toft  mayor  of  Coventre,  Nicholas  Michel,  John  de 
Pounfreit,  John  Ray,  Thomas  de  Nassjnigton.  Dated  London,  the 
eve  of  All  Saints  43  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  before  the  chancellor,  6  November. 

Charter  of  Thomas  atte  More,  giving  with  warranty  to  William  de 
Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the  manor  of 
Depenhale  with  all  lands,  rents,  reversions,  woods,  meadows,  feedings, 
pastures,  fisheries,  fish  ponds,  ponds,  the  services  of  free  tenants 
and  neifs,  the  said  neifs  and  all  that  goes  with  them  in  Crundale, 
Badele,  Depenhale  and  Bentele,  which  he  the  said  Thomas  lately  had 
of  the  gift  of  Margery  de  Fulquardeby,  except  the  lands  of  Colville 
which  Sir  Nicholas  de  Kaerwent  clerk  holds  by  demise  of  the  said 
Thomas.  Witnesses  :  Henrj^  Sturmy,  Thomas  Biflet,  Thomas  Warner, 
Roger  Colreth,  John  Clere.  Dated  Ben  tie,  Sunday  the  feast  of 
St.  Martin  in  winter  43  Ed\\ard  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknow^ledgment,  13  November. 

Dec.  12.  Alice  de  Rasyn,  sister  of  Richard  de  Waltham  clerk,  to  Richard  del 

Westminster.  Bernes   of   Westsmythefeld.     Recognisance   for    lOOZ.,    to   be   levied, 
in  default  of  payment,  of  her  lands  and  chattels  in  Essex. 

Membrane  6d. 

Writing  of  John  son  and  heir  of  Robert  de  Barton  of  Kent  otherwise 
called  Robert  Chamberleyn,  being  a  quitclaim  wdth  warranty  to 
HelmjTig  Leget,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services 
of  the  said  Helmyng  in  the  isle  of  Wight  sometime  of  the  said  Robert. 
Witnesses  :  Jolm  de  Lisle  and  Jolm  Barmgbroke  knights,  Stephen 
atte  Wode  of  the  isle  of  Wight,  Roger  Dygge  of  Kent.  Dated 
Neuport  in  the  isle  of  Wight,  1  November  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  before  the  chancellor,  21  November. 


43  EDWARD  HI.  HI 


13f)0_  Membrane  C^d — cont. 

Oct.  16.  ToW.  archbishop  of  Canterbury.  Request  and  order  upon  his  allegiance, 
Westiniiistor.  as  he  loves  the  king  and  his  honour,  and  desires  the  safety  and  defence  of 
the  realm  and  church,  in  consideration  of  the  difficulty  of  the  business 
and  the  perils  likely  to  happ<M\  for  lack  of  such  defence,  to  cause  his 
suffragans,  the  deans  and  priors  of  cathedral  churches,  the  abbots, 
priors  and  others  elective,  exempt  and  not  exempt,  the  archdeacons, 
chapters,  convents  and  colleges  and  all  the  clergy  of  every  diocese 
of  his  province  in  manner  accustomed  to  be  summoned  before  him 
in  the  church  of  St.  Paul  London  or  elsewhere  as  he  shall  see  fit 
at  tlie  shortest  possible  date,  to  lay  before  them  the  business  in  the 
last  parliament  set  forth  affecting  as  well  the  king  and  the  estate  of 
the  realm  as  the  needful  defence  thereof,  and  the  charges  incumbent 
on  the  king  in  that  behalf,  and  induce  them  to  grant  the  king  a 
competent  subsidy  in  aid  of  the  charges  aforesaid,  applying  himself 
to  effect  the  same,  and  certifying  the  king  of  the  amount  of  such  subsidy 
and  the  terms  of  payment  thereof  ;  as  it  is  not  unknown  to  the  arch- 
bishop how  the  said  business  and  charges  were  laid  before  him  and 
others  in  the  said  parliament,  which  charges  the  king  is  not  able  to 
support  without  the  aid  of  his  lieges,  wherefore  the  king  craved  of  the 
archbishop  and  other  the  clergy  of  his  diocese  and  province  there 
present  the  grant  of  a  fit  subsidy  as  the  urgent  need  and  manifest 
advantage  demand. 
[Foedera.] 

To  J.  archbishop  of  York.  Like  request  and  order,  mutatis  mutandis ; 
as  it  is  not  unknoAMi  to  the  said  archbishop  how  the  premises  were  laid 
before  his  proctors  and  the  prelates  in  the  last  parliament  etc.  (as  above). 

[Ibid.] 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Camoys  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  Robert  de  Thorp  knight,  liis  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor 
of  Pilketon  witli  the  reversions,  liberties  and  commodities  thereto 
belonging,  and  a  gift  with  like  warranty  of  the  advowson  of  Pilketon 
church.  Witnesses  :  Sir  John  de  Knyvet,  Sir  Thomas  de  Preston, 
Sir  Hugh  de  Northburgh  knights,  Thomas  Mortymer,  Andrew  Broun, 
Peter  Godebody. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  before  the  chancellor,  21  November 
this  year. 

Writing  of  Alice  sister  and  heir  of  Richard  de  Durem,  being  a  quit- 
claim with  warranty  to  Joan  relict  of  John  de  Coupeland,  her  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  all  lands,  rents  and  possessions  in  the  town  of  Byker  which 
the  said  John  and  Joan  sometime  had  of  her  said  brother's  gift. 
Witnesses  :  WiUiam  de  Acton  mayor  of  Newcastle  upon  T>Tie,  John  de 
Emildon,  John  de  Biker,  John  de  Preston  and  John  Howell  bailiffs 
thereof,  Richard  de  Stanhopp,  Stephen  Quitgrave,  Robert  Holme. 
Dated  Newcastle  upon  Tyiie,  Wednesday  the  feast  of  All  Saints 
42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  before  the  chancellor  at  his  lodging 
at  Suthwerk,  29  November  this  year. 

Writing  of  Bugo  IMauduyt  parson  of  Dene,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
A\arranty  to  Sir  Wilham  Payn  parson  of  Bukworth,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Dene  Mauduyt  co.  Suthampton  and  the 
advowson  of  the  church  thereof,  which  they  the  said  Bugo  and  VViUiam 


112  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1369.  Membrane  6d — cont. 

lately  had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Sir  John  Mauduyt  knight  of 
VVermenstre  to  them  and  their  heirs.  Dated  Dene  Mauduyt,  Sunday 
the  feast  of  St.  Valentine  41  Edward  IIL 

Memorandiun  of  acknowledgment  at  [  ]*  co.  Suth- 

ampton,  1  December  this  year,  before  Walter  de  Haywode,  by  virtue 
of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus  potestatem  which  is  on  the  file  for  this 
year. 

Writing  of  John  Dalton  of  Kirkeby  Mispirton  co.  York,  being  a 
quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Sir  W^illiara  Latymer  lord  of  Danby,  his 
heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  lands  and  tenements,  meadows,  feedings, 
pastures,  commons,  turbaries,  ponds,  fish  ponds,  rents,  rever- 
sions and  services,  with  all  lordships  etc.  which  he  the  said  John 
had  in  the  town  and  fields  of  Knapton  by  Scamston  co.  York,  all  which 
he  long  ago  demised  to  the  said  Sir  William  for  a  term  of  six  years. 
Witnesses  :  Sir  Robert  Pert  knight,  WilUam  Cotoun,  Geoffrey  Randolf 
of  Yorkshire,  John  Pecche,  Adam  de  Bury  citizens  of  London.  Dated 
London,     12    December    43    Edward    IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  before  the  chancellor  in  his  lodging 
at  Suthwerk,  12  December. 

Membra  ne   5d. 

Agreement  made  between  the  king  of  France  and  England  and  envoys 
sent  before  him  and  his  council  by  the  commonalty  of  merchants, 
shipmasters  and  seamen  of  Castelle  and  Viscaye  abiding  at  the  good 
town  of  Bruges  in  Flanders,  reciting  that  a  truce  was  lately  agreed 
between  the  said  king  for  him  and  all  his  merchants,  seamen,  goods, 
vessels  and  subjects  on  the  one  part  and  the  then  king  of  Spain  and  all 
his  merchants  etc.  of  the  realm  of  Castelle  and  county  of  Viscaye 
on  the  other  part,  which  truce  is  to  last  a  set  time  ;  that  during  this 
time  certain  men  of  the  city  of  London  and  the  town  of  Bristol  and 
other  merchants  of  the  realm  of  England  have  endured  many 
grievances,  hurts  and  villainies  from  men  of  Spain  by  taking  as  well 
their  goods,  ships  and  vessels  as  their  men  thereof,  of  whom  some 
were  barbarously  murdered,  some  are  yet  imprisoned  at  Sibille  and 
elsewhere  in  the  realm  of  Castelle  contrary  to  the  said  truce,  and  certain 
ships,  vessels  and  goods  of  the  merchants  of  Spain  have  been  arrested 
and  are  yet  under  arrest  in  England,  whereof  debate  and  tumult 
may  arise  between  the  parties  if  the  matter  remain  in  such  wise  without 
other  order  and  appointment ;  that  in  consideration  of  these  matters 
and  of  others  depending  thereupon  the  commonalty  aforesaid,  desiring 
to  apply  a  remedj^  by  common  consent  have  sent  envoys  before 
the  said  king  and  council,  to  wit  Martin  Peres  de  Merande,  and  John 
de  Segura  shipmasters,  Peter  Juaynes  de  Pratis  and  John  Martins 
de  Loagha  merchants,  humbly  prajdng  the  said  king  and  council  to 
give  them  a  term  within  which  they  might  take  advice  and  counsel 
of  the  merchants,  shipmasters  and  seamen  of  their  country,  without 
whom  they  might  not  take  order  how  the  grievances,  hurts,  losses 
and  villainies  aforesaid  might  be  redressed  ;  whereupon  after  fuU 
deliberation,  in  hope  of  peace  between  the  parties  and  of  such  redress, 
the  king  has  agreed  ^ith  the  said  envoys  that  they  shall  have  a  day 
for  the  purpose  between  this  and  1  May  next,  during  which  time 
they  shall  with  all  their  power  and  without  deceit  or  covin  pursue 

*  The  place  left  blank. 


43  EDWARD  III.  113 


1309.  Membrane  6d — cont. 

means  to  make  amends  to  the  said  king's  subjects,  the  said  masters, 

goods   and   ships  of  Spain   meanwhile   remaining   in   the   said   king's 

hand  or  at  his  will  and  order  unless  the  said  mercliants  and  shipmasters 

will  of  their  good  will  deliver  uj)  their  goods  and  ships  to  his  said 

subjects  to  recompense  them  for  their  damages  so  far  as  the  same 

will  go,  any  surplus  of  the  said  goods  after  satisfaction  so  given  being 

delivered   to   the   said   merchants   and   shipmasters   to   dispose   of   at 

their    pleasure   ;    and    it    is    also    agreed    that    all  'ships,    goods    and 

merchandise  of  Spain  now  being  in  Flanders  and  all  their  men  there 

may  during  the  said  term  freely,  safely  and  peaceably  go  to  Spain, 

and  all  those  now  in  Spain  and  Viscaye  to  Flanders,  coming  and  going 

for  traffic,   passing,   abiding   and   returning   by   the   power,   territory 

and  lordships  of  the  said  king  by  land  and  sea  so  often  as  they  shall 

please  without  arrest,  disturbance  or  hindrance  as  peaceably  and  safely 

as  in  the  time  of  the  said  truce  or  in  time  of  peace,  provided  always 

that  such  ships,  vessels,  masters,  merchants  nor  seamen  shall  not  aid, 

counsel  nor  comfort  any  of  the  said  king's  enemies,  but  if  against  their 

will  any  ships  or  seamen  of  Spain  be  now  with  the  said  enemies  the 

envoys  will  not  hereby  be  bound  for  them  ;  and  they  have  likewise 

promised  for  and  in  the  name  of  all  the  merchants,  shipmasters  and 

seamen  of  Castelle  and  Viscaye  that  none  of  the  said  king's  subjects  by 

land  nor  by  sea  shall  be  grieved,  hurt  nor  hindered  in  body  nor  goods 

by  any  of  the  realm  of  Castelle  nor  county  of  Viscaye,  but  shall  safely 

and  securely  come  thither  for  traffic  by  all  their  power  and  so  depart 

with  their  goods  and  ships  as  often  as  they  shall  please  during  the  said 

term,  and  if  the  contrary  be  done  on  the  part  of  Spain  or  Viscaye  it 

shall  be  straightway  redressed  by  taking  of  their  goods,  bodies  and 

vessels  wheresoever  found  on  land  or  sea  ;    and  for  truly  observing 

and  keeping  the  premises  the  said  king  has  caused  promise  to  be 

made  for  his  party,   and  the  said  envoys   have  made  promise  and 

oath,  by  power  to  them  given  binding  their  persons  and  goods,  and  the 

persons,  goods  and  merchandise  of    all  the  merchants,  shipmasters 

and  seamen  of  the  said  realm  and  the  county  of  Viscaye  in  whatever 

country,  land,  lordship  or  place  they  shall  be  found  by  land  or  sea 

to  the  taking  and  constraiiit  of  the  said  king,  the  count  of  Flanders, 

the  burgomasters,  advocates,  jurats  and  consuls  of  the  good  towns 

of  Flanders,  or  of  any  other  prince,  lord,  judge  or  court  secular  or 

ecclesiastical,  expressly  willing  and  granting  of  the  particular  knowledge 

and  good  will  of  them  and  every  of  them  on  their  party  that  the  said 

king,  count  etc.  and  every  of  them  may  by  land  and  sea  take,  constrain 

and  compel  the  said  merchants,  shipmasters  and  seamen  of  Castelle 

and  Viscaye  by  marque  and  reprisal  of  their  goods,  merchandise, 

persons  and  ships  and  otherwise  to  observe  the  premises  and  every 

of  them,  hereby  renouncing  exceptions  of  force  and  constraint,  of  error 

or  quantity,  and  in  general  all  exceptions,  cautions,  remedies  and 

defences  of  the  civil  and  canon  law  whereby  they  might  aid  or  defend 

themselves  against  any  such  matter,  and  the  law  against  the  validity 

of  general  renunciations.     Dated  the  city  of  London,  16  August  1369. 

French. 

Charter  of  John  Haukjm  the  king's  serjeant  at  arms,  gixang  with 
warranty  to  James  earl  of  Ormond  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  the  heirs 
and  assigns  of  the  said  earl,  his  manor  in  Inchecoigne  and  Youghhull, 
the  share  of  the  advowson  of  the  church  therein  to  him  pertaining, 
and  all  other  his  lands,  reversions,  rents  and  services  in  Ireland  which 

CB   8 


114  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


ISfJO.  Memhtane  M — cont. 

were  of  Robert  Tybtot  lord  of  Langare,  and  which  he  the  said  John 
had  of  the  said  Robert's  gift.     Dated  14  October  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum     of     acknowledgment     before     the     chancellor     at 
Westminster,  17  October. 

Oct.  29.         Stephen   Eyr  chaplain  to  Master  John  Corf  clerk.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  4/.  lis.  5\d.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  paj^ment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Somerset. 

Memorandum  that  this  recognisance  was  taken  by  the  cliancellor. 

Membrane  4d. 

Dec.  3,  To  WilUam  de  Fyncheden,  Thomas  de  Musgrave  knight,  Roger  de 

Westminster.  Fulthorp  and  WilUam  de  Nessefeld.  Order  to  stay  until  further  order 
the  execution  of  the  king's  late  commission  appointing  them,  three 
and  two  of  them,  to  make  inquisition  by  true  men  of  Yorkshire  what 
evildoers  and  breakers  of  the  peace  by  force  of  arms  broke  a  close 
and  fulling  mill  of  William  Gascoigne  of  Harewode  at  Harewode,  out 
down  trees  growing  in  his  orchard  there,  uprooted  others,  took  and 
carried  away  the  said  trees  and  timber  from  the  said  mill  to  the  value  of 
100  marks,  and  broke  his  mill  pond,  M'hereby  the  water  thereof  ran  off 
in  so  much  that  the  said  W^illiam  wholly  lost  his  profit  of  the  said 
mill,  and  to  do  certain  other  things  in  the  letters  patent  contained  ; 
as  for  particular  causes  laid  before  the  king  and  council  the  king's 
will  is  that  the  same  be  not  executed  at  present. 

Dec.  9.  To  William  de  Fyncheden.     Order  to  send  into  chancery  under  his 

Westminster,  seal  the  tenor  of  all  indictments  made  before  him  and  his  fellows, 
guardians  of  the  peace  and  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  Northumber- 
land, against  Hugh  Moungowe  for  certain  felonies  and  trespasses,  also 
this  writ,  staying  the  delivery  of  the  said  Hugh's  body  until  upon  view 
and  information  thereof  the  king  shall  send  him  further  order  ;  as 
for  particular  causes  the  king  would  be  certified  concerning  the  tenor  of 
those  indictments. 

Membrane  Sd. 

Dec.  3.  To  William  de  Fyncheden,  Thomas  de  Musgrave  knight,  Roger  de 

Westminster.  Fulthorp  and  William  de  Nessefeld.     Order  to  staj^  until  further  order 

the  execution  of  the  king's  commission  {as  above).  By  C. 

Nov.  26.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  under  pain  of  forfeiture, 
Westminster,  on  sight  of  these  presents  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  from 
month  to  month  in  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London  on  the  king's 
behalf  forbidding  any  man  openly  or  secretly  to  take  out  of  the  realm 
any  corn,  gold  or  silver,  bows,  arrows  or  other  arms  and  armour  under 
pain  of  forfeiture  of  all  the  lands,  goods  and  chattels  as  weU  of 
the  buyers  as  of  the  sellers  thereof,  of  the  ships  conveying 
the  same  to  foreign  parts,  and  of  all  else  that  may  be  forfeited  to  the 
king,  to  arrest  all  corn,  gold  and  silver  and  arms  found  after  the 
proclamation  in  ships  to  be  so  taken  over,  the  bodies  of  the  sellers 
and  buyers  thereof  and  of  the  seamen  of  the  said  ships,  and  the  ships, 
and  to  keep  their  bodies  in  prison  m  ithout  mainprise  until  further  order, 
certifying  from  time  to  time  in  chancery  under  their  seals  the  names  of 
buyers  and  sellers,  seamen  and  sliips,  the  quantitj^  of  corn,  gold  and  silver 
and  arms,  the  true  value  thereof  and  of  the  ships  w^herein  the  same 


43  EDWARD  III.  115 


1300.  Membrane  3d — cont. 

were  laded  ;  as  the  king  is  informed  that  nicrcliants  and  others  have 
oft  times  heretofore  taken  out  of  the  reahn  corn,  gold  and  silver  and 
arms,  and  cease  not  daily  so  to  do,  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  and  the 
hurt  of  all  his  jx'ojile  aiul  contrary  to  the  proclamation,  and  he  would 
ap|)ly   a   remedy   touching   the   premises.  By  K.   and  C. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

The  mayor  and  hailifts  of  the  town  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  York.    • 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Scardeburgh. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Lincoln. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  tow^l  of  St.  Botolph. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  towTi  of  Grymesby. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Barton. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Gippewic. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Great  Jernemuth. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  towii  of  Lenne. 

The  baiUfts  of  the  town  of  Colccestre. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  to^vn  of  Maldon. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Manytre. 

The  bailiff's  of  the  town  of  Orcwell. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Huntyngdon. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Ely. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Norhampton. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  towii  of  Yakesle. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Rochester. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Middelton. 

The  baiUffs  of  the  town  of  Faversham. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Canterbury. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  towai  of  Sandewic. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  towai  of  Dovorre. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  la  Rye. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Romeneye. 

The  maj'or  and  baiUffs  of  the  town  of  Hastpiges. 

The  mayor  and  bailiff's  of  the  town  of  Wynchelse. 

The  baihffs  of  the  city  of  Cicestre. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  to«ni  of  Shorham. 

The  baihft's  of  the  town  of  Lewes. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Suthampton. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Winchester. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  tow^l  of  Weymuth. 

The  baihffs  of  the  towTi  of  Pole. 

The  baihffs  of  the  town  of  Briggewauter. 

The  mayor  and  bailiff's  of  the  city  of  Exeter. 

The  baihffs  of  the  town  of  Plymmuth. 

The  bailiff's  of  the  towTi  of  Dertemuth. 

The  bailiff's  of  the  town  of  Fowy. 

The   baihffs  of  Falemuth. 

Ralph  Spigumell  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of  the 
Cinque  Ports. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Northumberland.      Like  order,  mutatis  mutandis, 
to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  in  singular  the  cities,  boroughs,  market 
to^^^lS  and  other  places  in  his  baihwick,  within  liberties  and  without 
The  hke  to  the  following  : — 
The  sheriff  of  York. 
The  sheriff  of  Lincoln. 


110  CALENDAR    OF    (LOSE  ROLLS. 


lJj(Ji>.  Membrane  3d — cont. 

The  sheriff  of  Norffolk. 

The  sheriff  of  Suffolk. 

The  sheriff  of  Suthampton. 

The  sheriff  of  Dorset. 

The  sheriff  of  Somerset. 

The  sheriff  of  Essex. 

The  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge  and   Huntingdon. 

The  sheriff  of  Norhampton. 

The  sheriff  of  Kent. 

The  sheriff  of  Suffolk  (sic). 

The  sheriff'  of  Devon. 
1  orTQ  The  sheriff"  of  Cornwall. 

Jan.  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  Dorset.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  Husee, 

Westminster,  to  stay  the  exigents  against  him  by  the  mainprise  of  Thomas 
Warenere  and  Hugh  Crane  of  the  county  of  Suthampton,  provided 
the  same  do  not  concern  a  felony,  causing  copies  of  the  writs  against 
the  said  John  to  the  sheriffs  addressed  to  be  delivered  to  him  ;  as  his 
petition  she\^s  that  without  his  knowledge  he  is  put  in  exigents  in 
Dorset  to  be  outlawed  by  a  process  made  in  the  king's  court,  and  that  he 
is  ready  to  answer  according  to  the  laws  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things, 
praying  a  stay  of  the  exigents  until  the  day  the  same  are  returnable  ; 
and  the  said  Thomas  and  Hugh  have  mainperned  before  the  king  in 
chancery  under  a  pain  of  40/.  to  have  his  body  in  the  king's  court  when 
the  exigents  shall  be  returnable  to  answer  the  king  and  others 
whatsoever. 

Membrane  Id* 
Jan.  18.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  to^\Tl  of  Bristol.  Order  for  particular 
Westminster,  causes,  under  pain  of  forfeiture,  on  sight  of  these  presents  to  cause  pro- 
clamation to  be  made  on  the  king's  behalf  forbidding  any  man  secretly 
or  openly  to  take  any  corn  to  Wales  or  any  foreign  parts,  or  by  craft 
or  covin  to  presume  so  to  do,  under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof  and  of  the 
ships  and  vessels  wherein  it  was  put  to  be  taken  over,  and  order 
to  arrest  and  keep  under  arrest  until  further  order  all  corn  found  after 
the  proclamation  put  in  ships  without  the  king's  licence  to  be  taken 
thither,  with  the  ships  wherein  it  is  put.  By  K.  and  C. 


18()9, 


Charter  of  Stephen  Randulph  chaplain,  giving  with  warranty  to 
Sir  William  de  Harewell  rector  of  Penhurst  and  Richard  Mauffe, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  lands,  houses,  messuages,  gardens,  arable 
lands,  woods,  wood  ground,  meadows,  waters,  ponds,  hedges,  trees, 
rents,  reliefs,  escheats,  rights  etc.  in  the  parish  of  Penshurst  in  a  place 
called  Hauedenne  and  in  the  parish  of  Chidyngston,  as  shewn  by  metes 
and  bounds,  which  he  the  said  Stephen  had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment 
of  Wilham  Coleville.  Dated  London,  5  June  37  Edward  III. 
Witnesses  :  William  Salman,  John  de  Haueden',  William  Sleghtre, 
Thomas  de  Esshore,  John  Morcok. 

Writing  of  Stephen  Randulf  chaplain,  rector  of  Coudenne,  being 
a  letter  of  attorney  to  Henry  atte  Sole  to  dehver  to  Sir  W^illiam 
Harewell  rector  of  Pensherst  and  Richard  Mauffe  seisin  of  the  lands 
and  rights  in  the  parish  of  Pensherst  and  Chidyngston  which  he  the 
said  Stephen  purchased  of  William  Coleville,  as  in  his  charter  of 
feoffment  to  them  contained.     Dated  London,  5  June  37  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  8  February  this  year. 

*  Membrane  2d  is  blank. 


(117) 


44   EDWARD   TIL 


1370.  Mi:mi:i!.\xic  25. 

Feb.  3.  To  the  sheriff  of  Oxford  and  Berkshire  for  the  time  being.     Order 

Westminster,  of  the  issues  of  those  counties  to  pay  to  Edmund  Ciffard  the  arrears 
of  &(l.  a  day  from  'i  January  last,  and  henceforward  to  pay  liim  that 
daily  sum  during  his  Ufe  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent,  taking 
his  acquittance  for  every  payment ;  as  on  that  date  the  king  of  his 
favour  granted  the  said  Ednmml  for  good  service  iSd.  a  day  by  the 
hantls  of  the  sheritf  for  his  wages  for  Ufe  or  until  other  order  be 
taken  for  his  estate. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Feb.  4.  To  the  bailiffs  of  the  king's  manor  of  Wodlyng  for  the  time  being. 

Westminster.  Order  of  the  issues  of  the  said  manor  henceforward  to  pay  2d.  a  day 
to  Roger  Wemme,  late  servant  of  Juliana  de  Leybourne  countess  of 
Huntingdon,  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent,  taking  his 
acquittance  ;  as  for  good  service  to  the  said  countess  the  king  of  his 
favour  has  grantetl  the  said  Roger  2d.  a  day  to  be  taken  by  the  hands 
of  the  said  bailiffs  during  his  life  or  until  other  order  be  taken  for 
his  estate.  By  K. 

Et  erat  patens. 

Feb.  12.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiff's  of  the  town  of  Bristol,  and  to  the  king's 

Westminster,  receiver  there  for  the  time  being.  Order  to  i)ay  to  the  abbot  and 
monks  of  Teukesbury  every  year  as  well  QOs.  of  the  rent  of  Bristol 
mill  as  14/.  lO*'.  for  the  tithe  of  the  rents  of  the  said  town,  as  the  same 
used  to  be  paid  them  heretofore,  with  the  arrears  thereof  since  the 
death  of  Queen  Philippa,  taking  the  said  abbot's  acquittance  ;  as 
lately  at  the  suit  of  the  abbot,  averring  that  time  out  of  mind  Robert 
son  of  Hamon,  founder  of  the  said  abbey  and  lord  of  Bristol,  by 
charter  gave  to  the  church  of  St.  Mary  Teukesbury  and  the  monks 
there  the  tithe  of  all  his  rents  of  Bristol  which  was  assessed  at  14/.  10s. 
a  year,  that  after  William  then  earl  of  Gloucestre  and  lord  of  Bristol  by 
charter  confirmed  this  gift,  and  further  gave  to  the  church  of  St.  James 
Bristol,  which  is  a  cell  of  the  said  abbey,  60s.  yearly  to  be  taken  of  liis 
mill  of  Bristol,  that  King  Henry  111,  to  whose  hands  the  said  town 
came,  on  14  July  in  the  20th  year  of  his  reign  granted  the  then  abbot 
that  he  and  his  successors  [should  have]  the  said  14|Z.  which  they  were 
used  to  take  as  aforesaid  every  year  at  four  terms,  to  wit  a  fourth 
part  at  Michaelmas,  a  fourth  part  at  Christmas,  a  fourth  part  at 
Easter,  and  a  fourth  part  at  Midsummer,  that  King  Edward  II  by 
letters  patent  on  1  June  in  the  18th  year  of  his  reign  commanded 
Hugh  le  Dispenser  son  of  Hugh  le  Dispenser  earl  {comiti)  of  Winchester, 
then  keeper  and  farmer  of  the  castle,  town  and  barton  of  Bristol,  to 
pay  of  his  farm  to  the  abbot  and  monks  of  Teukesbury  60s.  of  the 
rent  of  Bristol  mills  and  14/.  10s.  in  name  of  the  tithe  of  the  issues 
of  that  town,  and  that  the  bailiff's  of  the  said  town,  which  has  now 
come  to  the  king's  hands  by  the  said  queen's  death,  who  was  tenant 
thereof  for  life  by  the  king's  grant,  arc  gainsaying  the  payment  as 
well  of  the  said  tithe  as  of  the  said  60s.,  though  the  same  have  both 
been  ever  taken  liitherto  without  impeachment  by  the  abbot  and  his 


118  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370.  Membrane  25 — cont. 

predecessors  from  the  time  of  the  grants  aforesaid  untU  Christmas 
last,  as  well  when  tlie  town  was  in  the  hands  of  the  king  and  of 
former  kings  as  when  it  was  in  the  said  queen's  liand,  and  praying  the 
king  to  content  him  of  the  sums  aforesaid  amounting  to  17/.  lO*.  a 
year,  the  king  by  writ  commanded  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of 
the  exchequer  to  search  the  rolls  of  accounts  rendered  at  the  exchequer 
as  well  by  tlie  farmers  of  the  town  as  by  the  bailiffs  while  the  town  was  in 
the  king's  hands,  and  other  roUs  and  memoranda  concerning  the  business, 
and  to  certify  in  chancery  under  the  exchequer  seal  what  they  should 
find  ;  and  they  have  certified  that  upon  search  of  the  said  rolls  and 
memoranda  there  is  found  in  the  great  roU  of  5  Edward  I,  namely  in 
the  account  of  Richard  Jeovene,  son  and  heir  of  Bartholomew  le 
Jeovene,  of  the  issues  of  the  said  castle,  town  and  barton  from 
14  July  in  the  3rd  year  of  that  reign  to  18  October  in  the  5th  year,  a 
payment  to  the  monks  of  Teukesbury  of  6O5.  in  the  rent  of  Bristol 
mill  for  the  year  and  14/.  lOs.  in  money  for  the  year,  in  the  great 
roll  of  the  6th  year  of  that  reign,  in  the  account  of  Peter  de  la  Mare 
from  Michaelmas  in  the  5th  year  to  Michaelmas  in  the  6th  year,  a 
like  payment,  in  the  great  roll  of  the  8th  year  of  that  reign  in  the 
said  Peter's  account  from  Michaelmas  in  the  7th  year  to  Michaelmas 
in  the  8th  year  a  like  payment,  and  in  the  great  roll  of  the  15th  year 
of  that  reign,  under  Gloucester,  that  Hugh  le  Despenser  the  younger 
owes  105/.  for  the  last  half  of  that  year  at  the  rate  of  210/.  a  year  for 
the  farm  of  the  castle,  town  and  barton  of  Bristol  which  on  3  May 
that  year  the  king  committed  to  him  to  hold  during  pleasure  rendering 
that  sum  at  the  exchequer  every  year,  one  moiety  at  Michaelmas  the 
other  at  Easter,  keeping  the  same  nevertheless  at  his  own  cost,  and 
paying  to  the  abbot  and  monks  of  Teukesbury  every  year  60s.  of  the 
rent  of  Bristol  mill  and  14/.  IO5.  for  a  chantry  by  them  maintained 
within  the  castle  for  the  souls  of  the  king's  ancestors  ;  and  it  is  the  king's 
will  that  the  abbot  and  monks  shall  be  contented  thereof. 

Feb.  15.  To  Thomas  de  Musgrave  escheator  in  Cumberland.  Order  for 
Westminster,  particular  causes  to  certify  in  chancery  without  delay  under  his  seal 
the  cause  wherefore  the  lands  which  were  of  Robert  le  Bruyn  knight 
and  of  Richard  his  son  in  Cumberland  and  the  manor  of  Laysyngby 
are  by  the  escheator  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  the  particulars 
and  value  thereof,  sending  again  this  writ,  and  delivering  meanwhile 
to  Randolph  de  Dacre  all  the  lands  and  the  manor  aforesaid,  together 
with  the  issues  thereof  taken. 

Feb.  10.  To  the  same.     Order  to  assign  to  Mary  who  was  wife  of  William 

Westminster.  Arturet  tenant  in  chief  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  his  death,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to 
be  enrolled  in  chancery  as  usual ;  as  the  king  by  letters  patent  has 
given  her  licence  to  marry  whom  she  will,  provided  he  be  at  the  king's 
allegiance. 

Feb.  12.  To  John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.     Order  to  remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand  from  a  messuage,  80  acres  of  land,  3  acres  of  meadow 
and  3  acres  of  wood  in  Wouburne,  and  from  the  issues  thereof  taken 
since  the  death  of  John  son  of  John  Bernard,  who  died  on  the  eve  of 
St.  Matthew  in  the  42nd  year  of  the  reign,  not  meddling  further  there- 
with if  in  the  king's  hand  for  the  cause  hereinafter  mentioned  and  for 
none  other,  saving  to  the  king  the  issues  thereof  from  the  day  when 


44    EDWARD  111.  119 


1370.  Membrane  25 — cont. 

outlawry  was  publislicd  against  the  said'John  son  of  John  until  the 
day  of  his  death  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  biquisition,  taken  by 
Nicholas  de  Styuecle  late  escheatt)r,  tliat  on  Monday  before  the  feast 
of  St.  Edmund  the  Kijig  in  tiie  38th  year  of  his  reign  the  said 
John  the  son  was  outlawed  at  the  suit  of  Robert  Thame  citizen 
of  London  on  a  plea  of  account,  that  at  his  death  he  lield  no  lands 
in  that  county  in  ciiicf  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  that  tlie  jjremises, 
which  are  not  held  of  the  king,  descended  to  him,  after  the  death  of 
John  Bernard  his  father,  that  by  virtue  of  a  writ  of  the  Common  Bench 
to  the  said  escheator  addressed  the  same  were  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  and  that  Edmund  brother  of  the  said 
John  the  son  is  his  next  heir  and  of  full  age. 

To  John  Froylle  escheator  in  Oxfordshire.  Order  to  remove  the 
kings  hand  from  a  messuage,  7U  acres  of  land,  4  roods  of  meadow  and 
235.  6c/.  of  rent  in  Milton  not  held  of  the  king,  and  from  the  issues 
thereof  taken  since  the  death  of  John  son  of  John  Bernard,  who  died 
24  August  in  the  42nd  year  of  the  reign,  not  meddling  further  there- 
with if  in  the  king's  hand  for  the  cause  hereinafter  mentioned  and  for 
none  other,  saving  to  the  king  (as  abo\e)  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator.  that  on  Monday  before  8t.  Edmund 
the  King  in  the  38th  year  of  his  reign  the  said  John  the  son  was 
outlawed  (as  above),  that  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  he  held 
the  premises  at  his  death  in  fee  tail,  namely  to  him  and  the  heirs  of  his 
body,  with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  lieir  to  Edmund  his  brother 
(yet  living)  and  the  heirs  of  Edmund's  body,  and  that  he  died  without 
an  heir  of  his  body,  wherefore  the  premises  ought  to  remain  to  the 
said  Edmund  and  to  the  heirs  of  his  body. 


Membrane  24. 

Feb.  6.  To  John  de  Rokwode  escheator  in  Norffolk.     Order  in  the  presence 

Westminster,  of  Stephen  de  Wynselade,  if  upon  warning  he  w  ill  attend,  to  assign  and 
deliver  to  Mary  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  son  of  Andrew  Braunche 
tenant  in  chief  a  third  part  of  the  lands  of  the  said  Thomas  in  his 
bailiwick  taken  into  the  long's  hand  by  the  death  of  tiie  said  Thomas,  and 
to  the  said  Steplien  two  thirds  thereof,  sending  the  assignment  to  be  en- 
rolled in  chancery  ;  as  on  11  October  in  the  34th  year  of  his  reign,  of  the 
lands  of  the  said  Andrew  which  came  to  the  king's  hands  by  his  death 
and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  Thomas  his  sgn  and  heir,  who  died 
within  age  in  the  long's  wardship,  the  king  assigned  to  the  said  Mary 
in  dower  the  manors  of  Northbarsham  co.  Norfolk  and  Piperharwe 
CO.  Surrey  and  12  marks  of  rent  issuing  from  the  manor  and  hundred 
of  Frome  in  Selewode  co.  Somerset,  commanding  livery  thereof  to  be 
given  her  ;  and  after  at  the  suit  of  John  Giffard,  who  with  the  king's 
licence  has  taken  her  to  wife,  and  of  the  said  Mary,  averrmg  that 
Bernard  Brocas  clerk  recovered  agamst  them  the  said  manor  of 
Piperharwe  by  a  jury  of  24  knights  which  by  the  king's  writ  he 
obtained  against  them  before  the  king  to  convict  the  jurors  of  an 
assize  of  novel  disseisin  concerning  tenements  in  Piperharwe  lately 
summoned  and  taken  before  the  king  at  Kyngeston  upon  Thames 
between  the  said  Thomas  wliile  within  age  and  the  said  Bernard, 
Robert  Adymot  and  Jolm  de  Muxenbroke,  as  appears  by  the  record 
s  ,  and  process  of  the  recovery  which  the  king  has  caused  to  come  before 


120  CALKNDAK  OF  CLOSK  ROLLS. 


1370.  Membrane  24 — cont. 

liiin  in  chancery,  and  praying  the  king  to  assign  to  them  other  lands 
of  the  said  Thomas  in  recompense  for  tlie  said  manor  assigned  to  the 
said  Mary  and  recovered  out  of  lier  liands  as  aforesaid,  the  king 
ordered  the  sherilf  of  Somerset  to  give  notice  to  the  said  Steplien 
de  \Vynselade,  son  of  Eleanor  sister  of  the  said  Andrew  who  was  wife 
of  Richard  de  VVynselade,  being  cousin  and  heir  of  the  said  Thomas,  to 
be  in  chancery  in  the  (juinzaine  of  Midsummer  last  to  shew  cause 
\\herefore  the  lands  of  the  said  'J'homas,  whereof  the  king  commanded 
livery  to  be  given  him  as  cousin  and  heir,  should  not  be  taken  again  into 
the  king's  hand,  and  dower  thereof  delivered  to  the  said  John  and 
]\Iaiy  in  recompense  for  the  manor  so  recovered,  and  further  to  do 
and  receive  ^\hat  the  court  shoukl  determine  ;  and  because  the  said 
Stephen  appearing  accordingly  at  W'estminster  by  John  de  Burton 
clerk  his  attorney  said  nought  to  the  purpose  wherefore  the  said 
Mary  should  not  thereof  be  dowered  anew,  the  king  thought  good  to 
take  the  lands  of  the  said  Thomas  again  into  his  hand,  as  well  those 
delivered  to  the  said  Stepehn  as  those  formerly  assigned  to  the  said 
Mary  the  manor  of  Piperharwe  excepted,  and  ga\e  the  said  John  and 
Mary  a  day  to  be  before  him  in  chancery  in  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary 
last  to  receive  dower  to  be  assigned  her  anew,  ordering  the  sheriff 
to  give  notice  to  the  said  Stephen  to  be  there  at  that  day  hi  order 
to  be  present  at  the  assignment  of  dower  if  he  should  think  fit,  and 
further  to  do  and  receive  Avhat  the  court  should  determine  ;  and  the 
said  Stephen  being  so  warned  appeared  that  day  in  chancery,  and 
being  asked  by  the  court  whether  he  would  be  present  at  the 
assignment  of  dower  said  nought. 

The  like  to  William  Chcyne  escheator  in  Somerset. 

Feb.  12.  To  John  de  Bisshopeston  escheator  in  Kent.     Order  not  to  meddle 

Westminster,  further  with  the  manor  of  Brabourne  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the 
death  of  David  de  Strabolgi  earl  of  Athell,  delivering  to  Elizabeth  late 
his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisi- 
tion, taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  earl  at  his  death  held  no 
lands  in  that  county  in  chief,  but  held  the  said  manor  jointly  with  the 
said  Elizabeth  of  the  gift  of  Nicholas  Dammory  knight  and  John 
de  Lenne  clerk  made  with  the  king's  licence  to  them  and  the  heirs  male  of 
their  bodies,  and  that  the  same  is  held  in  chief  by  the  service  of  one 
knight's  fee  ;   and  the  king  has  taken  the  fealty  of  the  said  Elizabeth. 

Feb.  12.  To  John  de  Cressyngham  escheator  in  Norffolk.    Order  not  to  meddle 

Westminster,  further  with  the  manors  of  Possewyk,  Westlexham,  Styvekeye  and 
Holkham  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  David  de 
Strabolgi  earl  of  Atholl,  delivering  to  Elizabeth  late  his  wife  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  the  said  earl  at  his  death  held  the  same  jointly  with 
the  said  Elizabeth,  the  manors  of  Possewyk  and  Westlexham  of  the 
gift  of  William  de  Edyngton  late  bishop  of  Winchester  and  David  de 
Wollore  clerk,  the  manor  of  Styvekeye  of  the  gift  of  Nicholas  Damory 
knight  and  John  de  Lenne  clerk  made  with  the  king's  licence,  and 
the  manor  of  Holldiam  of  the  gift  of  Nicholas  Damory,  Ehzabeth  de 
Burgo  and  John  de  Lenne  clerk  to  them  and  the  heirs  male  of  their 
bodies,  and  that  the  manors  of  Possewyk,  Westlexham  and  Styvekeye 
are  held  in  chief,  the  manor  of  Holkham  of  others  than  the  king  ; 
and  the  king  has  taken  the  fealty  of  the  said  Elizabeth. 


44    EDWARD    III. 


121 


1370  Membrane  24 — cont. 

Feb.  12.  To  Alan  de  .Strotlier  bailitV  of  the  liberty  of  Tymlale.     Order  not 

Westminster,  to  meddle  further  with  a  moiety  ot  the  site  of  the  manor  of  Thornton 
in  Tvndale,  1(50  aci'es  of  land  there,  two  thirds  of  a  water  mill,  a 
tenement  called  Keldreshays,  L'eltreuerut,  halt  Keldre,  Waynhope 
8yde  with  a  park  called  \Vaynho[)e  park,  a  moiety  of  Hemilhope,  a 
hope  called  Bowes  and  1(^  Belles,  and  a  free  farm  of  41.  4d.  arising  from 
certain  burgages  within  the  town  of  Meuburgh  in  Tyndale,  all  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  David  de  8traboJgi  earl  of  Atholl, 
delivering  to  Elizabeth  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  in(|uisition,  taken  by  the  said  baihff,  that  the 
said  earl  at  his  deatli  held  the  premises  jointly  with  the  said  EUzabeth 
in  his  demesne  to  them  and  the  heirs  male  of  the  said  earl's 
body,  and  that  the  same  are  held  in  chief  as  of  the  manor  of  Werk  in 
Tyndale  by  the  ser\iee  of  the  30th  part  of  one  barony  and  by  suit 
of  the  court  of  Werk  in  Tyndale  every  three  weeks  ;  and  the  king  has 
taken  the  fealty  of  the  said  Elizabeth. 

Feb.  12.  To  Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.     Order  not  to  meddle 

Westminster,  further  with  the  manor  of  Geynesburgh  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  death  of  Da\  id  de  8trabolgy  earl  of  Atholl,  delivering  to 
Elizabeth  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  in(|uisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  earl  at 
his  death  held  the  said  manor  jointly  with  the  said  Elizabeth  to  them 
and  the  heirs  male  of  their  bodies,  and  that  the  same  is  held  of  others 
than  the  king. 

Feb.  24.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Great  Jernemuth.     Order, 

Westminster,  upon  the  i)etition  of  Walter  Barde  merchant  of  Lumbardy,  to  suffer  the 
balances  and  weights  appointed  for  weighing  of  wool  in  the  port  of 
Great  Jernemuth  to  be  brought  to  the  port  of  Gippewic,  and  the  said 
Walter's  wool  to  be  weighed  and  eocketed  from  time  to  time  when  it 
shall  come  thither,  suffering  him  by  himself  and  his  servants  there 
to  lade  the  same  in  ships  when  so  weighed  and  eocketed,  and  to  take 
it  whither  they  will  after  receipt  of  the  customs  and  subsidies  there- 
upon due  ;  as  his  petition  shew  s  that  he  purposes  to  buy  certain  wool 
in  Norffolk,  Suffolk,  Cambridgeshire,  Huntingdonshire  and  Essex  to 
his  own  use,  praying  licence  to  take  the  same  to  Gippewic  which  is 
within  the  limits  of  the  said  collectors'  bailiwick  and  there  lade  it  in 
ships  and  take  it  to  foreign  parts  to  make  his  advantage  thereof. 


Feb.  22.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  London.     Order,  upon  the 

Westminster,  petition  of  8imon  '  van  the  W'ard  '  of  Flanders  merchant,  to  view  letters 
of  cocket  to  him  made  in  Wales,  and  if  thereby  assured  that  certain 
wool  of  the  growth  of  Wales  was  weighed  and  eocketed  at  the  staple 
of  Kermerdyn,  and  that  the  custom  thereupon  due  was  well  and 
truly  paid  as  it  is  said,  to  suffer  him  to  lade  the  same  in  the  port  of 
London  and  take  them  without  let  to  foreign  parts  without  a  second 
payment  of  custom  or  subsidy  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  he  bought 
74  sacks  8  stone  of  such  w  ool  of  William  ^'enour  merchant  of  London 
and  6\  sacks  7  stone  of  John  Westby  merchant  to  take  to  foreign 
parts  to  make  his  advantage  thereof,  and  that  the  collectors  are 
demanding  of  him  custom  and  subsidy  as  if  it  were  not  already  eocketed 
and  customed,  although  it  was  at  the  said  staple  weighed  and  eocketed 
and  the  custom  well  and  truly  paid  as  by  the  letters  of  cocket  appears, 
praying  for  remedy  ;    and  in  the  ordinances  lately  made  for  holding 


122 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  KOLLt;. 


1870.  Membrane  24 — cant. 

staples  of  wool  within  the  realm  it  is  contained  that  it  shall  be  lawful 
for  men  of  Ireland  and  Wales,  w  ho  in  those  parts  may  not  deliver  their 
wool,  woolfells  and  hides  to  foreign  merchants,  to  come  with  them 
to  any  of  the  staples  in  England  after  the  same  are  cocketed  and 
customed  in  Ireland  or  Wales,  and  that  when  they  shall  so  come 
bringing  thither  the  letters  of  cocket  in  witness  thereof,  they  nor  the 
merchants  who  buy  of  them  shall  not  a  second  time  pay  customs  or 
subsidies  thereupon.  I'roviso  that  no  wool  of  tlie  growth  of  England 
shall  by  colour  of  these  presents  be  taken  over  among  the  wool 
aforesaid. 

Feb.  14.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  ot  the  exchequer.     Order  to  stay 

Westminster,  their  demand  made  by  exchequer  summons  upon  William  late  provost 
of  Wengham  and  now  bishop  of  Cicestre  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the 
issues  and  profits  of  the  temporalities  of  the  said  bishopric  to  the 
king  pertaining  from  4  June  to  9  June  last,  thereof  discharging  as  well 
the  said  William  as  John  de  Bisshopeston  cschcator  in  Sussex,  Surrey, 
Kent  and  Middlesex ;  as  on  4  June  the  king  took  the  fealty 
of  William  late  bishop  of  Cicestre,  translated  by  the  pope  to  be 
bishop  of  Worcester,  and  restored  to  him  the  temporalities  of  that 
bishopric,  and  after  on  9  June  he  took  the  fealty  of  the  said  provost, 
promoted  by  the  pope  to  be  bishop  of  Cicestre,  and  restored  to  him  the 
temporalities  of  that  bishopric,  of  his  favour  pardoning  him  the  issues 
and  profits  thereof  between  those  dates  which  pertain  to  the  king. 
[Fcedera.] 

Membrane  23, 

Feb.  2.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  William  Boneface,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 


Jan.  30.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  York  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 
Westminster,  of  Geoffrey  Randolf,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Feb.  15.  To  William  Banastre  of  Yorton  escheator  in  Salop.  Order  to  cause 
Westminster.  William  son  and  heir  of  John  son  of  John  de  Bentele  tenant  in  chief 
to  have  seisin  of  his  said  father's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his 
death  ;  as  the  said  William  has  proved  his  age  [before]  the  escheator, 
and  the  king  has  respited  his  homage  and  fealty  until  the  quinzaine 
of  Easter  next. 

Feb.  18.  To   John   Froylle   escheator   in   Berkshire.     Order  not   to   meddle 

Westminster,  further  with  a  messuage  and  one  carucate  of  land  in  Bouklond  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Thomas  de  Alberton,  delivering 
to  Mary  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Thomas  at  his 
death  held  no  lands  in  chief,  but  held  the  premises  jointly  with  the 
said  Mary,  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  the  said  Thomas,  of  others  than 
the  king. 

Feb.  22.         To  William  Banastre  escheator  in  Salop.     Order  to  cause  Thomas 

Westminster,  son  of  Thomas  de  Alvedele,  cousin  and  heir  of  Thomas  de  Al\edele 

tenant  in  chief,  to  have  seisin  as  well  of  the  lands  of  the  said  Thomas 

his  grandfather  as  of  those  lands  of  his  heritage  held  by  Dionisia  who 

was  wife  of  his  said  grandfather,  which  were  taken  into  the  king's 


44    EDVVAKD    111. 


123 


1370.  Membrane  23 — cont. 

liancl  l)y  their  deaths  ;  as  tlic  said  ThomaH  son  of  Thomas  has  proved 
his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and 
fealty.  By  p.s.* 

Feb.  7.  To  John  de  Ohieye  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire   and   Bukingham- 

Westminster.  sliire.  Order  to  deliver  to  Tlionias  son  of  Thomas  de  Hello  Campo 
earl  of  Warrewyk  the  manor  of  Kirtlyng  witli  the  advowsons  of 
Whittlesford  and  Bryngele  tliereto  pertaining,  the  manors  of  Hamps- 
lak  and  Quernedon  co.  Bukingham,  10  marks  of  rent  in  Long  Stanston 
CO.  Cantebrigge  issuing  from  a  manor  [called]  Toiiyesft  e,and  the  offices 
of  chamberlain  and  usher  in  the  exchequer  in  Bukingliamshire,  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  the  said  earl's  death,  together  with  the  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  divers  inquisitions,  taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  tiic  said  earl  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  those 
counties  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's 
court  with  his  licence  held  the  manor  of  Kirtlyng  and  the  said 
advowsons  in  chief  for  his  hfe  of  the  grant  of  Jolin  de  Melbourne  and 
Roger  de  Ledebury  clerks  to  the  said  carl  and  Guy  his  son  and  the 
heirs  male  of  the  said  Guy's  body,  the  manors  of  Hampslak  and 
Quernedon  by  like  tine  to  the  said  earl  and  Katherine  his  wife  (likewise 
deceased)  for  tlieir  lives  with  remainder  to  the  said  Guy  and  to  the 
heirs  male  of  his  body,  remainder  for  lack  of  such  heirs  as  well  of  those 
manors  as  of  the  manor  of  Kirtlyng  and  the  said  advowsons  to  Thomas 
brother  of  the  said  Guy  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  that  the  said 
Guy  is  dead  without  issue  male,  wherefore  the  same  ought  by  virtue 
of  the  said  fines  to  remain  to  the  said  Thomas  as  aforesaid,  also  that 
the  said  earl  at  his  death  held  for  life  the  rent  and  offices  aforesaid 
by  a  like  fine,  the  said  offices  with  remainder  to  the  said  Thomas  and 
the  heirs  male  of  his  body  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and 
fealty.  By  p.s. 


Feb.  7.  To  William  Auncell  escheator  in  Gloucestershire  and  Herefordshire 

Westminster,  and  in  the  march  of  Wales  adjacent.  Order  to  deliver  to  Thomas 
son  of  'J'homas  de  Bello  Campo  earl  of  Warrewyk  the  castles,  manors, 
land  and  advowson  hereinafter  mentioned,  which  were  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  the  said  earl's  death,  together  with  the  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  divers  inquisitions,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  the  said  earl  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  those  counties 
in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  by  tine  levied  in  the  king's  court 
with  his  licence  held  Pains  Castle  (Ca^"<r«m  MatilV)  and  the  manor  of 
Eluell  with  the  appurtenances  in  the  said  march  in  chief  for  his  life 
of  the  grant  of  John  de  Melbourne  and  Roger  de  Ledebury  clerks 
to  the  said  earl  and  Guy  his  son  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  Guy's  body, 
the  castles  of  Sweneseye  and  Oystresmoutli  and  the  land  of  Gower  in  the 
said  march  by  a  like  tine  of  the  grant  of  Ralph  earl  of  Stafford,  Robert 
de  Herle  and  Richard  de  Pyriton  to  the  said  earl  and  Katherine  his 
wife  (likewise  deceased)  with  remainder  to  the  said  Guy  and  the  heirs 
male  of  his  bod\',  with  remainder  of  all  the  premises  for  lack  of  such 
issue  to  Thomas  brother  of  the  said  Guy  and  the  heirs  male  of  his 
body,  that  the  said  Guy  is  dead  without  issue  male,  wherefore  the 


*  The  warrant  of  tlus  date  (p.s.  28214)  is  for  a  writ  of  livery  of  liis  father's 
lands  to  Tliomas  son  of  Thomas  de  -Alvedele,  no  mention  being  made  of  his 
grandfather,  or  of  Dionisia.  See,  however,  the  inquisitions  post  mortem  Thomas 
de  Alvydeleve  (35  Edward  III,  pt.  1,  no  61  and  Dionisia  de  Alvedele 
(43  Edward  III,  pt.  1,  no.  1). 


124  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370.  Membrane  23 — cont. 

same  ouj^lit  to  remain  to  the  said  Thomas  as  aforesaid,  also  that  by 
a  hke  fine  the  said  earl  held  in  chief  for  his  life  the  manors  of  Abbir- 
dewie  (Abbridewe)  and  Kylneye  in  the  said  march,  of  Wykwan, 
Lydeneye  and  Cheddeworth  and  the  advowson  of  Nategrave,  with 
remainder  thereof,  as  of  Sweneseye  and  Oystresmouth  castles  and  the 
land  of  Gower,  to  the  said  Thomas  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  ;  and 
the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.         By  p.s.  (the  same  writ). 

Feb.  15.  To  Thomas  de  Musgrave  escheator  in  Cumberland.     Order  to  take 

Westminster,  the  fealty  of  Eleanor  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Raghton  according  to 
the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  deliver  to  her  four  tenements  in 
Langholm,  three  tenements  and  the  moiety  of  one  water  mill  in  the 
town  of  Gamelsby,  three  tenements  in  Cruddayk,  a  piece  of  land 
called  Blakthwayt  and  a  tenement  at  Crinkledyk  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  said  John's  death,  together  w  ith  the  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
the  said  John  at  his  death  held  no  tenements  in  that  county  in  chief 
in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  premises  of  the  said  Eleanor's 
heritage  in  chief  by  knight  service  and  by  the  service  of  rendering  40.9. 
at  the  exchequer  of  Karliol  by  the  hands  of  the  sherifif  for  the  time 
being,  and  2d.  to  cornage  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  the  homage  of 
the  said  Eleanor.  By  p.s.  [28206.J 

Membrane  22. 

Feb.  14,  To  the  arrayers  of  men  at  arms,  armed  men,  hobblers  and  archers 
Westminster,  in  Kent.  Order  upon  their  allegiance  and  under  pain  of  forfeiture, 
in  consideration  of  the  hurt  and  peril  that  are  to  be  feared  for  lack  of 
furnishing  of  the  men  of  the  realm,  in  this  time  of  need  to  cause  the 
furnishing  of  arms  and  arraying  of  fencible  men  in  that  county  to 
be  completed  within  Hberties  and  without,  sparing  none  of  whatsoever 
estate  or  condition,  and  causing  the  men  at  arms,  armed  men,  hobblers 
and  archers  so  arrayed  to  be  kept  in  array,  so  that  before  Palm  Sunday 
next  they  may  be  well  armed,  arrayed  and  tried,  ready  to  march  on 
the  king's  service  against  his  enemies  to  overcome  them  and  defeat  their 
maUce  within  the  realm  wherever  and  whenever  danger  shall  threaten 
and  need  be,  so  bearing  themselves  in  tliis  behalf  that  by  their  neglect, 
lukewarniness  or  default  no  hurt  or  peril  shall  happen  to  the  king  or 
to  his  realm  ;  as  lately  being  desirous  to  guard  against  the  hurt  and 
peril  aforesaid  the  king  appointed  the  arrayers,  four,  three  and  two 
of  them,  by  themselves  and  their  deputies  to  array  all  the  fencible 
men  in  the  county  between  the  ages  of  16  and  60,  to  cause  all  men 
at  arms,  armed  men,  hobblers  and  archers  to  be  furnished  with  com- 
petent arms  every  man  according  to  his  estate,  possessions  and  means, 
to  be  put  in  thousands,  hundreds  and  twenties,  and  to  be  kept  in 
array,  so  that  by  a  set  daj^  now  past  they  should  be  arrayed,  furnished 
and  tried,  and  should  be  kept  in  array  ready  to  march  for  defence  of 
the  realm  whenever  peril  should  threaten  by  invasion  of  the  enemy 
and  they  should  have  warning,  distraining  and  compelling  all  such 
men  by  imprisonment,  seizure  of  their  goods  and  chattels  and  of  their 
lands  and  otherwise,  so  to  arm  and  array  themselves,  whereof  the  arrayers 
have  taken  heed  to  do  little  or  nothing  as  the  king  has  learned,  although 
by  inroads  of  the  enemy  grievous  peril  is  daily  threatening  the  king  and 
realm,  wherefore  the  king  is  moved  to  anger  ;  and  the  enemy  are 
making  ready  a  great  fleet  of  ships  and  galleys  upon  the  sea  coast  in 


44    EDWARD    III. 


125 


1370.  Membrane  22 — cont. 

divers  parts  with  a  host  of  armed  men  in  haste  to  invade  the  realm 
and  speedily  to  overcome  the  king  and  his  people  and  destroy  his 
dominion,  and  it  is  the  king's  will  by  God's  grace  to  resist  such  hurt  and 
peril,  and  make  provision  so  far  as  he  may  for  the  safety  and  defence 
of  himself  and  his  people.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Foedera.] 

The  like  to  the  arrayers  in  Surrey  and  3.3  other  counties,  in  the  parts 
of  Holand,  Lyndeseye  and  Kesteven  co.  Lincoln,  and  in  the  parts  of 
the  Northithing,  Estri thing  and  Westrithing  co.  York. 

[Ibid.] 

Feb.  8.  To  John  Froylle  escheator  in   Wiltesir.     Order  to  take  of  Maud 

Westminster,  who  was  wife  of  Walter  Dansey  tenant  in  chief  an  oath  that  she  will 
not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  in  presence  of  the  heirs  and 
parceners  of  that  heritage,  if  upon  warning  they  will  attend,  to  assign 
her  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
his  death,  sending  the  assignment  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

To  William  Aunsell  escheator  in  Herefordshire.  Order  to  assign 
dower  to  the  said  Maud,  of  whom  the  king  by  John  Froylle  escheator 
in  Wiltesir  has  taken  an  oath  (as  above). 

Feb.  5.  To  John  de  Bisshopeston  escheator  in  Kent,  Middlesex,  Surrey  and 

Westminster.  Sussex.  [Order]  to  cause  Reynold  de  Cobham,  son  and  heir  of 
Reynold  de  Cobham  tenant  in  chief,  to  have  seisin  as  well  of  his  said 
father's  lands  as  of  those  held  in  dower  or  otherwise  for  life  of  his 
heritage  by  Joan  who  was  wife  of  the  said  Reynold  the  father,  and 
taken  into  tlie  king's  hand  by  tlieir  death  ;  as  Reynold  the  son  has 
proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his 
homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [28170.] 

To  Jolin  Froylle  escheator  in  Wiltesir.  Like  order  ;  as  Reynold 
de  Cobham  the  son  has  proved  his  age  before  John  de  Bisshopeston. 

By  p.s.  (the  same  writ). 


Jan.  26.  To  John  Rous  escheator  in  Leycestershire.     Order  not  to  meddle 

Westminster,  further  with  the  advo\^son  of  Bose worth  church,  namely  of  presenting 
thereto  at  the  first  turn,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of 
Bartholomew  de  Burghcrssli  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  William  de  Catesby  late  escheator,  that  the  said  Bartholomew 
at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  count}'  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as 
of  fee,  but  held  the  said  advowson,  and  that  the  same  is  held  of  others 
than  the  king. 

Feb.  14.  To  Thomas  de  Musgrave  escheator  in  Northumberland.     Order  to 

Westminster,  deliver  in  dower  to  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  David  de  Strabolgy 
earl  of  AthoU  tenant  in  chief  two  thirds  of  the  manor  of  Ponteland 
extended  at  16Z.  15s.  lOkZ.  a  year,  the  hamlet  of  Liteleland  at  40s.  S^d., 
and  15  acres  of  meadow  in  Mitford  extended  at  125.  a  year,  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  the  said  earl's  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of 
his  heirs  ;  as  the  king  has  assigned  the  premises  to  her,  having  taken 
of  her  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  his  licence. 

Feb.  12.  To  Robert  Russell  escheator  in  Worcestershire.     Order,  upon  the 

Westminster,  petition  of  Ingelram  lord  of  Coucy  earl  of  Bedeford,  to  deliver  to  him 


126  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370.  Membrane  22— conf. 

of  the  kinjr's  favour  a  third  part  of  the  lands  of  Geoffrey  de 
Comewaille  knight  tenant  in  chief  taken  into  tiie  king's  hand  by  the 
death  of  Cicely  who  was  wife  of  the  said  Geoffrey,  together  with  the 
issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  on  5  Noveni])er  in  the  30th  year  of  his  reign 
the  king  of  his  favour  granted  to  the  said  earl  by  letters  patent  the  ward- 
ship of  the  said  Geoffrey's  lands,  which  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  hia 
death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  to  hold  until  the  said 
heir's  lawful  age  together  with  the  marriage  of  the  heir,  without 
rendering  aught  to  the  king  ;  and  now  the  said  earl  has  prayed  for 
livery  of  the  third  part  thereof  assigned  by  the  said  earl  to  the  said 
Cicely  in  dower. 

Feb.  10.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Lenne.     Order,  upon  the 

Westminster,  petition  of  Henry  Lescrope  captain  of  the  town  of  Calais,  to  suflFer 
the  said  Henry  by  himself  or  his  servants  without  let  to  lade  100 
quarters  of  wheat  bought  and  purveyed  in  Suffolk  in  ships  in  the  port 
of  Lenne  and  take  it  to  Calais,  any  proclamations,  ordinances  or 
commands  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding  ;  as  he  has  prayed  licence 
so  to  do  for  his  maintenance  and  the  maintenance  of  his  household. 

Feb.  8.  To  Thomas  de  Musgrave  escheator  in  Westmorland.     Order  not 

Westminster,  to  meddle  further  with  a  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Burgham  and 
44  acres  of  land  and  meadow  thereto  adjoining  taken  mto  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  John  Cuthbert  of  Burgham,  delivering  ujj  any 
issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that 
county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  premises  of  others 
than  the  king. 

Membrane  21. 

Feb.  10.  To  Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Order  to  take 
Westminster,  of  Eleanor  and  Cicely  daughters  of  Peter  Bavent  of  Billesby  security 
for  payment  of  their  relief  at  the  exchequer,  and  in  their  presence, 
if  upon  warning  they  will  attend,  to  make  a  partition  of  the  manor  of 
Billesby  into  two  equal  parts,  causing  the  said  Eleanor  as  elder 
daughter  and  the  said  Cicely  to  have  seisin  of  their  respective  pur- 
parties,  and  sending  tlie  partition  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  b}'  inquisition,  taken  b}'  the  escheator,  that  the 
said  Peter  at  his  death  held  the  said  manor  in  chief  by  knight  service, 
and  that  the  said  Eleanor  and  Cicely  are  his  next  heirs  and  of  full 
age  ;  and  for  20s.  bj'  them  paid  to  the  king  he  has  respited  their  homage 
and  fealty  until  IVIichaelmas  next. 
Vacated  because  upon  the  Fine  Roll. 

Feb.  7.  To  John  Rous  e.scheator  in  Warwickshire.    Order  to  deliver  to  Thomas 

Westminster,  son  of  Thomas  de  Bello  Campo  earl  of  Warrewj'k  the  castle  of  War- 
rewyk,  the  manors  of  WarrcAvyk,  Brayle,  Claverton,  Thoneworth,  Sutton 
in  Colefeld,  Berkeswell  and  Lythechum,  also  the  manor  of  Bereford, 
40  marks  of  rent  in  Morton  Daubeneye,  one  knight's  fee  in  Alyncestre, 
and  the  advowson  of  Wolfhamcote  church  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  said  earl's  death,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  AVilUam  de  Catesby  late 
escheator,  that  the  said  earl  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county 
in  chief  in  liis  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court 
with  his  licence  held  the  said  castle  and  manors  in  chief  of  the  grant 


44  EDWARD  III.  127 


1370.  Membrane  21 — cont. 

of  John  de  Melbourne  and  Roger  de  Ledebury  clerks  to  the  said  earl 
and  Guy  liis  son  and  to  the  lieirs  male  of  Gu3''s  body,  with  remainder 
for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  said  Thomas  brother  of  Guy  and  the 
heirs  male  of  his  body,  and  that  tlic  said  Guy  is  dead  without  issue 
male,  that  by  a  like  fine  he  heUl  the  said  manor  of  Hereford,  rent  and 
fee  in  chief  for  his  life  with  remainder  to  the  said  Thomas  the  son 
and  to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  and  that  the  said  earl  and  Thomas 
his  son  by  fine  levied  as  aforesaid  ac(]uired  the  said 'advowson,  which 
is  not  held  of  the  king,  of  John  Trillowe  the  younger  and  Joan  his 
wife  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  Thomas 
the  son.  By  p.s. 

To  Robert  Russell  escheator  in  Worcestershire.  Order  to  deliver  to 
Thomas  son  of  Thomas  de  Bello  Campo  carl  of  Warrewyk  the  castle 
and  shrievalty  of  Worcester  with  the  hundreds,  members  and  other 
appurtenances  thereof,  the  manors  of  Elnele  Lovet,  Syntele,  Abbedeleye 
and  Yherdele,  a  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Rykmerleye,  and  the 
manor  of  Shraueleye,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  said  earl's 
death,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's 
court  with  his  licence  the  said  earl  at  his  death  held  the  said  castle  and 
shrievalty,  manors  and  moiety  in  chief  for  his  life  with  remainder  to 
the  said  Thomas  the  son  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  that  by 
another  fine  he  held  the  said  manor  of  Sliraueleye  likewise  in  chief 
for  his  life  of  the  grant  of  John  de  Melbourne  and  Roger  de  Ledebury 
clerks  to  the  said  earl  and  Katherine  his  wife  (likewise  deceased)  for 
their  lives  with  remainder  to  Guy  son  of  the  said  Guy  [sic]  and  to  the 
heirs  male  of  his  body,  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  Thomas 
brother  of  the  said  Guy  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  and  that  he 
the  said  Guy  is  dead  without  issue  male,  wherefore  the  said  manor 
ought  by  the  form  of  the  gift  to  remain  to  the  said  Thomas  as 
aforesaid  ;  and  the  king  lias  taken  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said 
Thomas.  By  p.s.   (the  same  writ). 

Feb.  7.  To  Thomas  de  Musgrave  escheator  in  Northumberland.     Order  to 

Westminster,  deliver  to  Thomas  son  of  Thomas  de  Bello  Campo  earl  of  Warrewyk 
Bernard's  Castle  and  the  manor  of  Gaynford  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  said  earl's  death,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said 
earl  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne 
as  of  fee,  but  b\'^  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his  licence  held 
the  said  castle  and  manor  in  chief  for  his  life  of  the  grant  of  John 
de  Melbourne  and  Roger  Ledebury  clerks  to  the  said  earl  and 
Guy  his  son  and  the  heirs  male  of  Guy's  body  with  remainder  for 
lack  of  such  an  heir  to  Thomas  brother  of  the  said  Guy  and  to  the  heirs 
male  of  his  body,  and  that  the  said  Guy  is  dead  without  issue  male 
wherefore  the  premises  ought  by  tlie  form  of  the  gift  to  remain  to 
the  said  Thomas  as  aforesaid  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage 
and  fealty.  By  p.s.  (the  same  writ). 

To  Richard  de  Wydeville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire  and  Rote- 
land.  Order  to  deliver  to  Thomas  son  of  Thomas  de  Bello  Campo 
earl  of  Warrewyk  the  manors  of  Berughton  and  Gretham  and  the 
hundred  of  \A>angd3'k  co.  Roteland  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the 
said  earl's  deatli,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken,  but  not  to 


128  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370.  Membrane  21 — cent. 

meddle  further  Avith  tlio  manor  of  Potterospyrie  co.  Norliampton 
likewise  taken  into  the  king's  iiand,  deUvering  up  any  issues  thereof 
taken  :  as  tlie  king  lias  kiarned  by  divers  intpiisitions,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  the  said  earl  at  his  death  lield  no  lands  in  those  counties 
in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  by  fine  lately  mfide  in  the  king's 
court  held  for  his  life  the  inanor  of  l*oteres])yrie,  which  is  not  held 
of  the  king,  of  tlie  grant  of  John  de  Melburne  and  Roger  Ledebury 
clerks  to  the  said  earl  and  Katherine  his  \\ife  (likewise  deceased) 
with  remainder  to  Guy  the  said  earl's  son  and  the  heirs  male  of  his 
body,  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  Thomas  brother  of  the 
said  Guy  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  that  by  another  fine  levied 
with  tlie  king's  licence  the  said  earl  held  for  his  life  the  other  manors 
and  hundred  aforesaid  in  chief,  with  remainder  to  Reynbrun  his 
son  (now  deceased)  for  life,  remainder  to  Guy  brother  of  Reynbrun  and 
to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to 
Thomas  brother  of  Guy  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  and  that  the 
said  Gu}^  is  dead  without  issue  male,  wherefore  all  the  premises  ought  by 
virtue  of  the  said  fines  to  remain  to  the  said  Thomas  as  aforesaid  :  and 
the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.         By  p.s.  (the  same  writ). 

To  John  de  Welde  escheator  in  Essex  and  Hertfordshire.  Order  to 
deliver  to  Thomas  son  of  Thomas  de  Bello  Campo  earl  of  Warrewyk  the 
manors  of  Welcommestowe  co.  Essex  and  Flamstede  co.  Hertford,  one 
knight's  fee  in  Beruglios  and  the  advowsons  of  Fambrigge  and  Stanbrigge 
CO.  Essex  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  said  earl's  death,  together 
with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  divers 
inquisitions,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  earl  at  his  death 
held  no  lands  in  those  counties  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  by 
fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his  licence  held  the  said  manors 
in  chief  of  the  grant  of  John  de  Melbourne  and  Roger  de  Ledebury 
clerks  to  the  said  earl  and  Guy  his  son  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  Guy's 
body,  with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  Thomas  brother  of  Guy 
and  to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  and  that  the  said  Guy  is  dead  \a  ithout 
issue  male,  wherefore  the  same  ought  to  remain  to  the  said  Thomas 
by  virtue  of  the  said  fine,  also  that  by  a  like  fine  the  said  earl  held  for 
his  life  the  said  fee  and  advowsons  in  chief  with  remainder  to  the  said 
Thomas  his  son  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  ;  and  the  king  has 
taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  (the  same  writ). 

To  Jolm  Froille  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Suthampton  and  Wiltesir. 
Order  to  deliver  to  Thomas  son  of  Thomas  de  Bello  Campo  earl  of  Warre- 
wyk the  manor  of  Chiriel  co.  Wiltesir  the  rroiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in 
Wodebergh  co.  Wiltesir  and  the  advowson  of  the  church  thereof,  two 
messuages  and  the  office  of  pesager  {oflicium  pesagarie)  in  the  town 
of  Suthampton  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  said  earl's  death, 
together  Avith  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
divers  inquisitions,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  earl  at  his 
death  held  no  lands  in  those  counties  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee, 
but  held  the  said  manor  for  liis  life  in  chief  by  knight  service  of  the  grant 
of  John  Melbourne  and  Roger  de  Ledebury  clerk  made  by  fine  levied  in 
the  king's  court  with  his  licence  to  the  said  earl  and  Guy  his  son  and 
to  the  heirs  male  of  Guy's  body,  with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an 
heir  to  Thomas  brother  of  the  said  Guy  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  his 
body,  that  the  said  Guy  is  dead  without  issue  male,  wherefore  the 
same  ought  by  virtue  of  the  said  fine  to  remain  to  the  said  Thomas, 


44    EDWARD    III.  129 


1370.  Membrane  21 — cont. 

and  that  tlio  said  earl  lield  likewise  in  chief  the  said  moiety,  advowson, 
messuages  and  ofhce  of  the  grant  of  .John  de  Bukyngham  and  certain 
others  to  him  and  the  said  Thomas  his  son  and  to  the  heirs  male  of 
the  said  son's  body  :  and  the  king  has  taken  the  said  son's  homage 
and  fealty.  By  p.s.  (the  same  writ). 

Mi:Mnn.\M-:  20. 
March  1.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Suthampton.  Order, 
Wcstniinster.  upon  the  ))etilion  of  James  Jaeobyn  merchant  of  Lumbardy,  to  cause 
the  balances  and  weights  appointed  for  weighing  wool  in  the  said  port 
to  be  carried  at  the  said  merchant's  cost  to  tlie  port  of  Melcombc, 
and  his  wool  to  be  there  weighed  and  cocketed,  suffering  him  by 
liiinself  and  his  servants,  after  payment  of  the  customs  and  subsidies 
thereupon  due,  to  lade  the  wool  so  weighed  and  cocketed  in  ships  not 
arrested  nor  appointed  for  the  king's  service,  and  without  let  to  take 
it  to  foreign  parts  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  he  bought  certain  wool 
in  divers  parts  of  the  realm,  praying  licence  by  himself  and  his  servants 
to  bring  the  same  to  the  port  of  Melcombe  which  is  within  tlie  said 
collectors'  bailiwick,  and  there  lade  it  and  take  it  over  sea  whither  ho 
will  to  make  his  advantage  thereof. 

Feb.  24.         To  William  Banastre  of  Yorton  escheator  in  Salop.     Order  to  cause 

Westminstpr.  John  de  la  More,  son  and  heir  of  WilUam  de  la  More  tenant  in  chief, 

to  have  seisin  of  his  father's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his 

death  ;    as  the  said  John  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator, 

and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.         By  p.s.  [28216.] 

March  12.        To  Thomas  de  Musgrave  escheator  in  Cumberland.     Order  without 

Westminster,  delay  to  execute  what  is  incumbent  upon  his  office  in  regard  to  Richard 

de  Alanby  of  Cumberland,  who  is  outlawed  in  Westmorland  as  the  king 

has  learned,  as  is  wont  to  be  done  in  like  case,  certifying  his  action 

in  chancery  under  seal. 

March  14.        To  William  Cheyne  escheator  in  Somerset.     Order  to  cause  Roger 
Westminster.  Dore  and  Joan  his  wife,  daughter  and  heir  of  John  son  of  John  Inge 

tenant  in  chief,  to  have  seisin  of  her  said  father's  lands  taken   into 

the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  tlic  said  Joan's  nonage  ; 

as  she  has  proved  her  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken 

the  fealty  of  the  said  Roger. 

To  John  FroLlle  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Suthampton  and  Oxford. 
Like  order,  as  the  said  Joan  has  proved  her  age  before  William  Cheyne. 

The  like  to  William  Auncell  escheator  in  Gloucestershire  and  Here- 
fordshire. 

March  29.        To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Coventre.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner 

Westminster,  of  that  town  to  be  elected  by  the  commonalty  thereof  instead    of 

Thomas  Nassyngton,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified  as  the  king  has 

learned  by  credible  witness,  wherefore  the  king  has  thought  tit  to 

remove  him  from  office. 

March  18.        To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  St.  Botolph  and  the 

Westminster,  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Waynflete.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John 

Mercer  and  his  fellows  merchants  of  Scotland,  to  view  certain  letters 

of  cocket  under  the  seal  of  David  de  Bruys  of  Scotland,  and  if  assured 

OR   9 


130  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370.  Memhrnnp  20— cont. 

thafc  certain  wool  and  hides  cast  upon  tlie  shore  by  Waynflete  co. 
Lincoln  were  cocketed  in  Scothxnd  and  the  custom  due  was  there  paid 
as  it  is  said,  to  suffer  the  said  merchants  without  let  to  [lade]  the  same 
in  the  said  port  and  take  them  fthenco]  without  a  second  payment  of 
custom  or  subsidy  thereupon  ;  as  in  the  truce  lately  made  between 
the  king  and  the  said  David,  for  themselves  and  their  subjects,  it  is 
contained  that  during  the  said  truce  all  men  of  either  party  may 
have  intercourse  with  one  another  by  land  and  sea,  castles  and  towns 
closed  and  fortified  excepted,  and  that  in  case  a  ship  of  either  party 
by  storm  or  other  need  be  driven  to  touch  at  any  ports  in  England  or 
Scotland,  the  same  may  there  peaceably  touch  and  abide,  finding  it 
in  victuals  for  a  competent  time,  and  without  arrest  or  impediment 
may  freely  return  thence  with  goods  and  men  ;  and  now  on  behalf  of  the 
petitioners  it  is  shewn  the  king  that  in  Scotland  they  freighted  a  ship 
called  '  la  Magdeleyn  of  Scluse  with  certain  wool,  hides  and  woolfells  of 
the  growth  of  Scotland  to  take  to  Flanders  and  make  their  advantage 
thereof,  that  on  the  voyage  thither  the  said  ship  was  driven  by  stress 
of  weather  upon  the  sea  coast  aforesaid  and  there  wrecked,  the  said 
wool  and  hides  were  cast  ashore,  and  the  seamen  and  merchants  therein 
escaped  alive  to  land,  and  that  the  said  collectors  and  bailiffs  are 
demanding  of  the  said  merchants  custom  and  subsidy  for  the  same 
for  that  they  were  landed,  as  if  they  were  not  before  cocketed  and 
customed,  though  they  were  cocketed  as  aforesaid  and  the  custom 
paid,  as  by  the  said  letters  of  cocket  appears,  praying  for  remedy. 
Proviso  that  no  wool  or  hides  of  the  growth  of  England  shall  by  colour 
of  these  presents  be  taken  with  those  to  foreign  parts. 

March  26.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  if  John  de  Assheby  is  yet  in  the 
Westminster,  city  of  London,  to  proceed  in  a  cause  which  is  before  them  without  the 
king's  writ  between  Nicholas  de  Tamworth  plaintiff  and  the  said 
John  concerning  a  debt  of  55  marks,  doing  speedy  justice  to  the 
parties  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  England  and  of  the  said 
city,  notwithstanding  letters  of  protection  with  the  clause  volumus  etc. 
which  the  king  lately  granted  to  the  said  John,  believing  him  about 
to  sail  to  Aquitaine  on  the  king's  service  ;  as  the  said  John  has  not 
yet  sailed  tliither,  but  is  abiding  in  the  said  city  upon  his  own  business, 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  credible  witness. 

April  23.  To  the  collectors  of  the  petty  custom  in  the  port  of  St.  Botolph 
Westminster,  for  the  time  being.  Order  of  the  issues  of  the  said  custom  to  pay 
to  Agnes  who  was  wife  of  John  Permay  of  St.  Bo'olph  the  arrears 
from  1  August  last  of  100s.  a  year  for  Michaelmas,  Christmas  and 
Easter  terms,  paying  her  henceforward  the  said  sum  every  year  at 
those  terms  and  at  IVIidsummer  by  even  portions,  and  taking  her 
acquittance,  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent  of  that  date,  granting 
of  his  favour  to  the  said  Agnes,  for  her  said  husband's  good  service, 
100^.  a  year  of  the  said  issues  payable  as  aforesaid  during  her  life. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Membrane   19. 

March  20.        To  the  reeve  or  keeper  of  the  manor  of  Cokeham  for  the  time  being. 

Westminster.  Order  of  the  issues  of  the  manor  to  pay  to  John  Godeshipman  the 
arrears  from  14  August  last  of  I2d.  a  week,  paying  him  that 
sum  henceforward  every  week  during  his  Ufe,  and  taking  Ms 
acquittance  for  every  payment,  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent 


44    EDWARD    III.  131 


1370.  Membrane  19 — cont. 

of  that  date,  granting  of  his  favour  to  the  said  John,  for  good  service  to 
Qucon  Philippa  in  her  life  time,  12c?.  a  week  for  life  in  aid  of  his 
maintenance,  payable  as  aforesaid. 

Feb.  21.  To  William  de  Wyndesore  the  king's  lieutenant  in  Ireland,    the 

VVestniinstor.  chancellor  and  treasurer  in  Ireland.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  the  prior 
of  Lanthony  in  Wales,  in  consideration  that  he  may  not  without  great 
hurt  dwell  without  the  priory,  if  he  or  his  proctor  in  Ireland  shall 
find  security  for  finding  so  many  armed  men  and  archers  for  the 
defence  of  Ireland  as  pertain  to  him  for  his  lands  in  Ireland,  or  the 
expenses  of  finding  such  men,  and  shall  with  others  of  the  clergy  in 
Ireland  pay  them  tenths  of  his  ecclesiastical  benefices  there,  to 
remove  the  king's  hand,  and  suffer  the  said  prior  or  his  proctor  without 
let  to  take  and  bring  to  England  for  his  maintenance  the  residue 
of  the  issues  and  profits  of  his  said  lands  and  benefices  over  and  above 
the  imposts  aforesaid,  notwithstanding  that  he  does  not  there  dwell 
in  person  ;  as  lately  with  the  assent  of  the  prelates,  nobles  and  others 
of  the  council  the  king  appointed  that  all  lords  and  others  of  England 
having  or  claiming  lordships,  lands  etc.  in  Ireland  should  be  there 
at  Easter  last  well  arrayed  and  furnished  with  arms  and  men  to  dwell 
upon  their  lands  and  upon  the  conquest  thereof,  that  in  case  for  any 
inevitable  need  oi  impediment  any  of  them  might  not  go  thither  in 
person,  they  should  send  others  in  their  name  at  their  own  cost  there 
to  dwell  upon  the  defence,  governance  and  conquest  of  the  same, 
and  that  in  case  they  would  not  so  do  the  king  should  take  their 
lands  and  lordships  into  his  hand  to  be  given  at-  his  pleasure  to  others 
who  will  there  dwell  as  aforesaid  ;  and  now  by  a  plaint  on  behalf 
of  the  said  prior  it  is  shewn  the  king  that  the  greatest  part  of  his 
maintenance  and  of  the  maintenance  of  his  convent  is  of  the  profit 
of  lands  and  benefices  in  Ireland,  that  for  his  maintenance  he  has 
ever  been  wont  to  bring  the  issues  and  profits  thereof  from  Ireland 
to  England,  and  that  the  said  lieutenant  and  others  have  commanded 
his  lands  in  Ireland  and  the  profits  and  emoluments  of  his  benefices 
there  to  be  taken  into  the  king's  hand  for  that  the  said  prior  in  person 
made  not  his  abode  thereupon  for  the  defence  of  Ireland,  although 
brother  John  Leghton  one  of  the  monks  his  fellows,  proctor  and 
attorney  general  of  the  said  prior  and  convent  in  Ireland,  has 
according  to  the  said  ordinance  found  from  the  date  thereof  and  is 
yet  ready  to  find  for  defence  of  Ireland  the  due  quota  of  men  at  arms, 
armed  men  and  archers  for  the  quantity  of  the  said  lands  there,  and 
has  with  others  of  the  clergy  of  Ireland  paid  tenths  of  the  said  benefices, 
wherefore  the  said  prior  has  prayed  for  removal  of  the  king's  hand 
and  licence  to  bring  the  residue  of  the  said  issues  and  profits  to 
England  as  aforesaid. 

March  20.  To  William  Auncel  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.  Order  to  take 
Westminster,  of  Alice  who  was  wife  of  Peter  de  Gloucestre  tenant  in  chief  an  oath 
that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign  and 
deliver  her  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  his  death,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled 
ui   chancery. 

April  G.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Bristol.     Order,  under  pain 

Westminster,  of  forfeiture,  to  cause  the  owners  and  masters  of  the  ships  of  that 

town  arrested  in  the  port  for  the  king's  service  to  have  without  delay 


132 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370. 


Membrane  19 — cont. 


80  many  armed  men,  archers  and  seamen  of  the  best  of  that  town 
and  of  the  hborty  thereof  as  shall  be  needful  for  furnishing  the  same 
to  sail  on  the  king's  service  at  his  wages  as  they  shall  be  commanded  ; 
as  great  number  of  ships  are  there  arrested  and  appointed  to  sail  for 
defence  of  the  realm,  wherefore  the  owners  and  masters  thereof  have 
prayed  the  king  to  provide  them  with  men  as  aforesaid. 

May  2,  To  the  farmers,  bailiffs  or  otlier  the  keepers  of  the  king's  manor  of 

Westminster.  Snetesham    co.  Norffolk   for    the    time    being.     Writ    de    intendendo, 

.  directing  them  of  the  issues  of  the  manor  to  pay  to  Hugh  Lyngeyn 

and  Agatha  his  wife  the  arrears  of  3^.  a  day  since  the  death  of  Queen 

Philippa,  and  henceforward  to  pay  them  that  daily  sum,  taking  their 

ac(iuittance  ;    as  for  their  good  and  willing  service  the  said  queen 

so  far  as  in  her  lay  lately  granted  that  daily  sum  to  the  said  Hugh 

and  Agatha  of  the  issues  of  the  said  manor  for  their  lives  and  the  life 

of  the  longest  liver,  and  the  king  by  letters  patent  has  granted  them 

that  they  shall  have  the  same  accordingly. 

Et  erat  patens. 

May  8.  To  the  abbot  of  Stratford  co.  Essex  for  the  time  being.     Writ  de 

Westminster,  intendendo,  directing  him  to  pay  hencefo^^^'ard  every  year  to  Richard 
de  Pembrugge  during  his  life  lOOs.  to  him  surrendered  by  Thomas 
Temese  ;  as  the  king's  daughter  Joan  princess  of  Aquitaine  and 
Wales,  sometime  wife  of  Thomas  de  Holand,  granted  to  the  said 
Richard  for  life  a  yearly  farm  of  11/.  which  the  said  abbot  is  bound 
to  render  to  her  and  her  heirs  for  the  manors  of  Svidbury  and  Hamme, 
and  by  divers  writings  the  said  Richard  with  the  king's  licence  gave 
the  said  farm,  IOO5.  thereof  to  the  said  Thomas  Temese,  60s.  to  John 
de  Estbury,  and  6O5.  to  John  de  Walden  and  to  their  assigns 
respectively  to  be  taken  during  his  life  by  the  hands  of  the  abbot, 
and  the  said  Thomas  Temese  by  his  writing  has  surrendered  the 
said  100s.,  as  the  said  Richard  has  witnessed  before  the  king. 
Et  erat  patens. 


Membrane   18. 

April  20.  To  William  Auncell  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.  Order  to  deliver 
Westminster,  of  the  king's  gift  to  William  Melbourne  and  Roger  Dore  all  the  issues 
and  profits  by  him  taken  since  20  November  in  the  39th  year  of  the 
reign  of  a  messuage,  one  virgate  of  land  and  40s.  of  rent  in  the  tow^n 
of  Lee  ;  as  on  that  day  for  their  good  service  the  king  by  letters  patent 
granted  them  the  w^ardship  of  all  the  lands  which  were  of  John  son 
of  John  Inge  tenant  in  chief,  and  were  in  the  king's  hand  by  his  death 
and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  to  hold  until  the  said  heir's 
lawful  age,  with  her  marriage,  under  this  condition  that  at  their  own 
costs  they  should  sue  for  recovery  of  the  king's  right  in  the  said  ward- 
ship and  marriage  by  certain  persons  long  fraudulently  concealed  and 
Avithheld,  and  that  in  case  at  their  suit  the  king's  said  right  should  be 
recovered  they  should  have  all  the  profit  thereof  for  the  time  to  come, 
answ'er  being  made  to  the  king  for  such  profit  for  the  time  past  since  the 
said  John's  death,  and  that  being  applied  to  the  king's  advantage  ; 
and  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator  at  the  king's  com- 
mand, that  at  his  death  the  said  John  the  son  held  the  premises  in 
chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  by  the  service  of  keeping  a  certain  baili- 
wick of  the  forestership  of  la  I-ee  in  the  forest  of  Micheldene  ;  and 
the  king  having  recovered  the  Avardship  of  the  premises    and  the 


44    EDWARD    ill. 


133 


1370. 


Membrane  18 — cont. 


marriage  of  Joan  daughter  and  heir  of  the  deceased,  it  is  his  will  that 
his  said  grant  should  take  effect.  Proviso  that  answer  be  made  to 
the  king  for  the  issues  of  the  premises  from  the  said  John's  death 
to  20  November  aforesaid. 

April  28.  To  Thomas  de  Musgrave  cscheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  to  assign 
Westminster,  to  Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  Lely  the  younger  tenant  in  chief  dower 
of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death, 
togetlier  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  from  1  October  in  the  41st  year  of 
the  reign,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery  ; 
as  on  that  date  the  king  ordered  John  de  Scotherskelf  then  cscheator 
to  take  of  her  an  oath  that  she  would  not  marry  \\ithout  the  king's 
licence,  and  to  assign  her  dower  of  the  said  lands,  sending  the  assign- 
ment to  be  enrolled  as  aforesaid  ;  and  now  by  plaint  of  the  said  Joan  the 
king  has  learned  that,  though  the  late  cscheator  took  of  her  an  oath 
according  to  that  command,  he  refused  to  assign  her  dower,  wherefore 
she  has  prayed  the  king  for  remedy. 

May  1.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln.     Order  on  sight  of  these  presents  to  cause 

Westminster,  proclamation  to  be  made  in  the  cities,  boroughs  and  towns  in  his 
baihwick  where  need  be  within  Uberties  and  without,  that  no  stranger 
or  privy  person  shall  under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof  expose  any 
cloths  for  sale  before  the  subsidy  upon  cloths  for  sale  lately  granted 
to  the  king  for  remission  of  the  forfeiture  of  alnage  be  thereupon 
paid  and  the  cloths  scaled  under  the  seal  appointed  for  the  purjDOse, 
that  no  drapers  or  clothmakers  shall  deliver  any  cloths  from  their 
keeping  nor  suffer  them  to  pass  out  of  their  hands  before  the  said 
subsidy  be  paid  and  the  cloths  sealed  as  aforesaid,  and  that  aU  mayors, 
baiUffs  and  ministers  of  the  king  and  others  of  the  county  shall  under 
pain  of  forfeiture  be  obedient  and  intendant  to  Thomas  de  Thomhagh 
of  Lincoln  and  his  deputies  in  all  things  that  pertain  to  them,  and 
himself  to  receive  from  time  to  time  of  them  and  every  of  them  by 
indentiire  containing  the  quantity,  value,  description  and  ownership 
thereof  aU  cloths  by  them  taken  as  forfeit  into  the  king's  hand, 
delivering  to  the  said  Thomas  or  to  his  attorneys  the  third  part 
thereof,  and  safe  keeping  the  other  two  thirds  to  the  king's  use 
until  further  order  ;  as  according  to  covenants  made  between  the 
king  and  the  said  Thomas  the  king  has  by  an  indenture  granted  and 
to  farm  let  to  him  for  a  set  rent  the  said  subsidy  in  Lincolnshire  and 
Roteland  for  three  years  from  6  May  next,  together  with  a  third  part 
of  forfeited  cloths ;  and  now  on  behalf  of  the  said  Thomas  the  king 
has  learned  etc.  {as  above,  p.  88).  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  to  the  sheriff  of  Roteland  for  the  said  Thomas. 

May  8.  The  like  to  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton,  to  deliver  to  John  Nokton  a 

Westminster,  third  part  of  the  forfeiture  for  one  year  from  that  date. 


Membrane  17. 

May  5.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  stay 

Westminster,  their  demand  made  by  exchequer  summons  upon  William  de  Wyke- 

ham  now  bishop  of  Winchester  to  answer  to  the  king  concerning  fmes, 

amercements,  forfeited  issues,  the  year  and  a  day  and  waste,  rents, 

protits,  emoluments,  and  recognisances  of  tenants,  liberties,  issues  etc. 


134  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370.  Membrane  17 — cont. 

of  the  men  and  tenants  of  his  lands  and  fees  whatsoever  in  any  the 
king's  courts  to  his  bishopric  pertaining  and  to  the  teraporahties  tliereof 
wliicli  fell  in  time  of  the  last  vacancy,  discharging  as  well  the  said 
bishop  as  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton  of  all  such  fines  etc.  which 
pertained  to  the  king  by  reason  of  that  vacancy,  or  might  have  pertained 
to  him  if  the  same  had  b.en  kept  in  th  ;  king's  hand,  suffering  the  said 
bishop  to  have  and  enjoy  all  such  fines  etc.  according  to  the  charter, 
letters  patent  and  grants  hereinafter  recited,  and  not  troubling  the 
said  bishop  and  sheriff  contrary  to  the  same  ;  as  on  8  June  in  the 
9th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  charter  granted  to  Adam  then  bishop 
of  Winchester  that  he  and  his  successors  should  have  for  ever  all 
fines  for  mercies,  trespasses  and  licence  to  concord,  all  amercements 
and  forfeited  issues,  all  that  might  pertain  to  the  king  for  the  year 
and  a  day  and  for  waste  of  all  men  and  tenants  of  his  lands  and  fees  in 
whatsoever  court  of  the  king  they  should  be  fined  or  amerced,  forfeit 
issues  or  be  adjudged  to  the  year  and  a  day  and  to  waste  as  well  before 
the  king  in  chancery,  before  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the 
exchequer,  the  steward  and  marshal,  or  the  clerk  of  the  market  of 
the  houseliold  for  the  time  being  as  in  other  courts  before  the  king's 
justices  and  ministers  whatsoever  as  well  in  his  presence  as  in  his 
absence,  whicli  fines  etc.  might  pertain  to  the  king  if  they  were  not 
granted  to  the  bishop,  so  that  the  bishop  and  his  successors  might  by 
themselves,  their  bailiffs  and  ministers,  take  and  have  such  fines  etc., 
distraining  for  them  when  need  be,  without  let  of  the  king,  his  justices, 
escheators,  sheriffs,  baiUffs  or  ministers  A\hatsoever  ;  and  after  on 
1  December  in  his  40th  year,  for  a  great  sum  in  hand  paid  in  his  chamber 
by  the  said  now  bishop,  being  then  archdeacon  of  Lincoln,  the  king 
by  letters  patent  granted  him  the  keej^ing  of  the  said  bishopric,  then 
in  the  king's  hand,  and  all  the  temporalities  thereof,  with  the  rents, 
profits,  emoluments,  recognisances  of  tenants,  liberties,  knights'  fees, 
advowsons  of  churches,  issues  etc.  pertaining  thereto  and  to  the  king 
by  reason  of  the  vacancy,  to  hold  from  the  death  of  William  de 
Edyndon  late  bishop  so  long  as  the  said  bishopric  and  temporalities 
should  remain  in  the  king's  hand  without  rendering  aught  to  the  king 
over  and  above  the  sum  aforesaid. 

May  6.  To  William  Latymer  keeper  of  the  king's  forest  beyond  Trent,  or 

Westminster,  to  his  representative  in  Ingelwode  forest.  Order,  if  Robert  son  of 
John  Frere  of  Karhol,  taken  and  imprisoned  in  KarUol  prison  for  a 
trespass  of  venison  in  the  said  forest  whereof  he  is  indicted  it  is  said, 
shall  find  him  twelve  true  men  of  that  baih\\ick  who  will  mainpern 
the  said  Robert  to  have  him  before  the  king's  justices  in  eyre  for 
pleas  of  the  forest  in  Cumberland  to  stand  to  right  concerning  the 
said  trespass  when  they  shaU  next  come  tliither,  to  dehver  the  said 
Robert  to  bail  if  replevisable  according  to  the  assize  of  the  forest, 
bringing  before  the  said  justices  the  names  of  such  mainpernors  and 
this  writ. 

May  10.  To  Nicholas  de  Morewode.     Order  not  to  meddle  henceforward  in 

Westminster,  aught  affecting  the  office  of  guardian  of  the  peace  and  justice  of  oyer 

and  terminer  in  Roteland,  although  the  king  lately  joined  him  with 

those  appointed  to  that  office,  with  them  to  preserve  the  peace  and 

perform  other  tilings  in  the  king's  letters  patent  contained  ;    as  for 

,  particular  causes  the  king  has  thought  good  altogether  to  discharge 

the  said  Nicholas. 


44   EDWARD   III. 


m 


1870.  Memljruiie  17 — cont. 

March  20,        To  the  sheriff  of  Oxford.     Order  to  cause  a  verderer  of  the  forest 
Westminster,  of  Whichowode  to  be  elected  instead  of  Ralpli  Frettewell,  who  is  too 
infirm  and  aged  to  perforin  that  office  as  the  king  has  learned. 

Jan.  27.  To  the  sheriff  of  Stafford.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Philip  de  Bobynton,  who  is  insufficientlj^  quaUfied. 

May  15.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk,     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  William  Alisaundre,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

June  28,         To  the  sheriff  of  York.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Thomas  Dautry,  who  is  too  infirm  and  aged  for  the  exercise 
of  his  office  as  by  credible  witness  the  king  has  learned,  wherefore  he 
has  removed  liim. 

June  22.         To  the  sheriff  of  Devon.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  insteatl  of  Thomas  de  Manston,  who  is  insufficiently  quaUfied. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
instead  of  Robert  Jurdan,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified, 

June  27.         To  the  sheriff  of  Warrewyk.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  William  Coppethome,  who  is  too  infirm  and  aged  for  the 
exercise  of  that  office, 

July  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  Stafford.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Phihp  de  Bobyngton,  who  is  insufficiently  quaUfied. 

July  10.         To  the  same.     Like  writ  concerning  PliiUp  de  Bobyngton. 
Westminster. 

July  10.         To  the  sheriff  of  Devon.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Thomas  de  Manston,  who  is  insufficiently  quaUfied. 

June  20.         To  the  sheriff  of  Oxford.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  John  Hardy,  who  is  insufficiently  quaUfied. 

April  30,         To  John  Rous  escheator  in  Leycesterafcire.     Order  to  deUver  to 
Westminster.  John  Goderich   the  king's  yeoman  the   baiUwick  of  the  hundred  of 
Gertre  in  that  county  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of 
*  John  de   Astwyk,   together   with   the  issues   thereof   taken  ;    as   on 

27  May  in  the  37th  year  of  his  reign,  for  his  said  yeoman's  good  service, 
the  king  of  his  favour  granted  b}^  letters  patent  to  the  said  yeoman 
for  his  life,  without  rendering  aught  to  the  king,  the  revereion  of  the 
bailiwick  aforesaid,  then  held  for  Ufe  of  the  king's  grant  by  John 
de  Astwj^k  with  reversion  to  the  king  and  his  heirs  ;  and  now  it  is 
found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  John  de  Astwyk 
died  on  Tuesday  the  feast  of  St.  Edmund  the  King  last  holding  in 
chief  for  liis  Ufe  the  baiUwick  aforesaid  of  the  king's  grant  with 
reversion  to  the  said  John  Goderich. 


Membrane  16. 

Jime  27.         To  William  Cheyne  escheator  in  Somerset  and  Dorset.     Order  to 

Westminster,  cause  Ivo  son  and  heir  of  William  Fitz  Waryn  of  Whytyngton  tenant 

in  cliief  to  have  seisin  of  his  father's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand 


136  CALENDAR  OP  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

by  liis  death  and  by  reason  of  the  said  Ivo's  nonage  ;  as  he  proved 
his  age  before  John  de  Evesham  late  escheator  in  Wiltesir,  and  the 
king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [28441.] 

Tlie  Uke  to  tlic  following  : 

John  Eroille  escheator  in  Wiltesir  and  Berksliire. 

Richard  dc  Wideville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire. 

July  9.  To  Richard  de  Ravensere  the  king's  clerk,  keeper  of  the  hanapcr 

Westminster,  of  chancery.  Order  of  the  issues  of  tlie  hanaper  to  pay  to  William 
bishop  of  Winchester  the  chancellor  60/.  which  he  has  paid  over  and 
above  the  usual  fee  for  the  winter  and  summer  hvery  of  the  clerks 
of  eliancery  these  last  three  years  because  of  the  present  dearness  of 
cloth,  furring  and  scndal,   taking  his  acquittance.  By  K. 

Juh'  8.  To   William   Aunsel    escheator  in   Herefordshire.     Order   to    take, 

Westminster,  according  to  tlie  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  the  fealty  of  Robert 
atte  Rudyng,  who  with  the  king's  licence  has  taken  to  wife  EUzabeth 
daughter  and  heir  of  WilUam  dc  Northgrave  tenant  in  chief,  and  to 
cause  the  said  Robert  and  EUzabeth  to  have  seisin  of  her  said  father's 
lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  liis  death  ;  as  the  said  Elizabeth 
proved  her  age  before  PhiUp  de  Lutteleye  late  escheator,  and  the 
king  has  respited  until  the  quinzaine  of  Martinmas  next  the  said 
Robert's  homage  due  by  reason  of  issue  between  him  and  the  said 
EUzabeth  begotten. 

June  18.         To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  on  sight  of  these  presents  to 
Westminster.  deUver  Hugh  de  Ronscy,  late  the  king's  hostage,  to  Florymound  lord 
of  la  Sparre  to  be  taken  to  his  own  parts  and  dealt  with  as  he  shall 
tliink  fit. 

May  20.  To  the  guardians  of  the  temporaUties  of  the  bishopric  of  Norwich, 

Westminster,  now  void  and  in  the  Idng's  hand.  Order  by  true  men  of  the  manors 
of  the  said  bishopric  to  make  inquisition  by  whom  the  doors  and 
windows  of  the  houses  and  buildings  of  the  said  manors  are  carried 
away  and  eloigned,  causing  the  same  in  whose  hands  soever  they 
shall  be  to  be  brought  back  without  delay  and  repaired  in  due 
manner  ;  as  ^he  king  is  informed  that  since  the  death  of  Thomas  the 
last  bishop  the  said  doors  and  windows  are  carried  away  and  eloigned 
to  liis  prejudice  and  the  ruin  of  the  bishopric,  and  it  is  his  will  to  apply 
a  remedy. 

May  8.  To  the  collectors  of  the  custom  of  3d.  in  tlie  pound  in  the  port  of 

Westminster.  Bristol.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  Bentham  and  Richard 
Milbourne  merchants  of  England,  if  assured  that  they  were  bom  \vitliin 
the  realm  and  are  true  merchants  of  the  king's  allegiance  of  England 
having  nowise  adliered  to  the  king's  enemies,  to  stay  their  demand 
made  against  the  said  merchants  as  aUens  for  payment  of  3d.  in  the 
pound  upon  their  merchandise,  releasing  any  distress  made  for  that 
cause,  notwithstanding  that  the  said  merchants  abode  a  considerable 
time  in  Brittany  upon  the  exercise  of  their  traffic  ;  as  their  petition 
shews  that  they  freighted  a  ship  with  iron  in  Brittany  and  as  the 
king's  true  Ueges  brought  the  same  to  Bristol  to  be  unladed,  and 
that  the  collectors  are  unlawfully  making  the  demand  aforesaid  as 
if  they  were  aUen  merchants  for  that,  they  so  abode  in  Brittany, 
praying  for  remedy. 


44    EDWARD  lit. 


137 


1370. 


Membrane  15. 


May  6.  To  William  Banastrc  of  Yorton  escheator  in  Staffordshire.     Order 

Westminster,  to  cause  William*  son  of  Joan  sister  of  William  dc  Pylatenhale  to  have 
seisin  of  his  purparty  of  a  messuage  and  one  carucato  of  land  in 
Huntyndon  in  that  county  kept  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  his 
nonage  ;  as  on  5  May  in  the  37th  year  of  his  reign  upon  the  finding 
of  an  in(iuisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  the  then  escheator, 
that  WiUiam  de  Pylatenhale  at  his  death  held  the. premises  in  chief 
by  homage  and  i)y  the  service  of  keeping  Teddesley  hay  within  the 
forest  of  ('annok,  and  that  John  son  of  Margaret  one  of  his  sisters 
and  the  said  William  son  of  Joan  the  other  sister  were  his  next  heirs, 
the  said  John  being  of  full  age  and  William  son  of  Joan  within  age,  the 
king  took  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  John,  by  writ  ordering 
the  late  escheator  to  take  of  him  security  for  payment  of  his  relief 
at  the  exchequer,  to  make  a  partition  of  the  premises  into  two  equal 
parts  in  presence  of  the  said  .John  and  of  the  next  friends  of  the  said 
William  son  of  Joan  if  being  warned  they  would  attend,  and  to  cause 
the  said  John  to  have  seisin  of  his  puri)arty,  keeping  the  purparty 
of  Willianx  son  of  Joan  in  the  king's  hand  until  further  order  ;  and 
now  the  said  William  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and 
the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s  [28315.] 

May  16.  To  John  de  Busshopeston  esclieator  in   Kent.      Order  to  deUver 

Westminster,  to  Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford,  to  hold  according  to  the  form 
of  conveyance  hereinafter  recited,  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  West- 
pecham,  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Mereworth,  and  certain  tene- 
ments called  Holdhay,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  as  well  by  the 
death  of  John  de  Merew  orth  as  by  reason  of  the  trespasses  hereinafter 
juentioned,  saving  to  the  king  the  relief  due  for  the  .said  moiety  to 
be  levied  to  his  use  of  those  who  are  lawfully  chargeable  therewith  ; 
as  lately  upon  the  finding  of  an  inquisition,  taken  at  tlie  king's  com- 
mand by  John  de  Tye  late  escheator,  that  a  covenant  A\'as  made 
between  John  de  Mereworth  (now  decea.sed)  and  William  Strete 
concerning  the  purchase  of  the  premises,  the  said  moiety  being  held 
in  chief  b}'  the  service  of  keeping  one  of  the  kings  hawks  and  of  mewing 
the  same  when  need  be,  the  said  manor,  advovvson  and  tenements  of 
the  earl  of  Stafford  as  of  the  honour  of  Gloucestre  by  knight  service, 
namel}^  that  John  de  Mereworth  should  thereof  enfeoff  John  parson 
of  Mereworth  and  Robert  vicar  of  Estpecham,  under  a  condition  that 
they  should  demise  the  same  to  the  said  John  de  Mere\\orth  for  life 
with  remainder  to  the  said  William  and  his  heirs,  finding  that  the 
said  John  de  Mere\\orth  was  asked  concerning  his  will  if  he  should 
die  before  the  said  covenant  was  fulfilled,  Avho  spake  and  ordered  the 
said  WilUaiii  to  go  and  incontinently  take  seisin  of  the  premises  to  him 
and  his  heirs  as  lord  and  master  thereof,  and  to  the  increase  and 
confirmation  of  his  estate  gave  the  said  William  all  the  oxen  and 
plough  liorses  for  three  ploughs  with  all  their  gear,  that  the  said  William 
there  abode  all  night,  taking  and  claiming  his  seisin  in  the  premises, 
and  that  on  the  morrow  the  said  John  de  Mereworth  died,  and  that 
after  on  the  morrow  of  his  death  one  John  Malemayns,  alleging  liimself 
to  be  heir  of  the  said  deceased,  without  process  and  authority  of  the 
king's  court  entered  the  said  manor  and  all  the  lands  that  were  of 
John  de  Mereworth,  and  on  Thursday  following,  namely  Ascension 
day,   by  a  letter  of  attorney  enfeoffed   the  said  earl   of   Hereford, 


*  .In  the  warrant  William  son  of  Richard  de  Engleton. 


138 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370. 


Membrane  15 — cant. 


at  tho  suit  of  tlie  said  oarl  praying  the  king  to  receive  of  liini  the 
services  due  for  the  said  moiety  and  cause  livery  to  be  given  him 
as  well  of  the  said  nK)iety  as  of  other  the  premises  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  de  Mereworth  [as]  he  was  ready  to 
make  fine  with  the  king  for  pardon  of  his  trespass  in  acquiring  the 
same  without  tho  king's  licence,  thr  king  ordered  tho  sheiitf  of  Kent  to 
give  notice  to  the  said  WiUiam  to  be  before  him  in  chancery  at  a  set 
day  now  past  to  shew  cause  wherefore  such  liver}'  should  not  be  given, 
and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court  should  determine  in  that 
behalf;  at  which  day  came  as  well  the  said  earl  by  John  de 
Bampton  his  attorney  as  the  said  William  in  person,  and  a  day  was 
given  them  before  the  king  in  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  to  do  and 
receive  wliat  should  be  lawful  in  the  premises  ;  and  after  before  the 
king  in  his  Bench  the  said  William  acknowledged  that  the  said  earl 
has  fidl  right  therein,  and  by  his  writing  granted  that  he  and  his  heirs 
should  be  barred  from  all  action,  suit,  claim  and  demand  in  the  premises, 
as  appears  by  the  tenor  of  the  record  and  process  which  the  king  has 
caused  to  come  before  him  in  chancery;  and  on  4  Maj'  last,  for 
40  marks  by  the  said  oarl  paid,  the  king  by  letters  patent  pardoned  the 
trespasses  committed  as  well  by  hhn  as  by  the  said  John  Malmeyns,  and 
respited  his  homage  and  fealty  until  Whitsunday  next. 

April  25.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  admit 
Westminster.  Thomas  now  earl  of  Warrewyk,  son  of  Thomas  de  Bello  Campo  the 
late  earl,  to  the  office  of  sheriff  of  Worcester,  suffering  him  to  exercise 
that  office  by  deputies  to  be  by  him  appointed  anew,  as  the  late  earl 
in  his  life  time  used  to  do  ;  as  upon  the  finchng  of  an  inquisition,  taken 
at  the  king's  command  by  Robert  Russel  escheator  in  Worcestersliire, 
that  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  \nth  his  hcence  the  said  late  earl 
at  liis  death  held  for  life  the  castle  and  shrievalty  of  Worcester  with 
the  hundred,  members  and  appurtenances  in  chief,  ^^■ith  remainder  to 
the  said  Thomas  his  son  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  liis  said  son's  body, 
on  7  February  last  the  king  took  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said 
now  earl,  ordering  the  escheator  to  give  him  livery  of  the  premises, 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  late  earl's  death,  together  with  the 
issues  thereof  taken. 

May  3.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  cause 

Westminster,  all  issues  and  jirofits  pertaining  to  the  king  as  well  of  the  baiUmck  of 
the  honour  of  Peverel  in  Xorhamptonshire,  Bedfordshire,  Bukingham- 
shire  and  Leycestershire  as  of  a  farm  of  15/.  yearly  for  the  manor  of 
Falwesle  for  Easter  term  last,  Mith  the  arrears  if  any,  to  be  levied 
and  paid  to  the  executors  of  Hugh  Wake,  discharging  as  well  the  farmers 
and  tenants  of  the  said  manor  as  the  heirs  and  executors  of  the  said 
Hugh,  notwithstanding  that  he  died  before  Easter  ;  as  of  liis  favour 
and  in  recompense  for  20  marks  yearh'  to  him  granted  for  Ufe  to  be 
taken  at  the  exche(|uer,  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  to  the  said 
Hugh  the  baihwick  aforesaid  to  the  value  of  100s.  a  year  and  the 
said  farm  to  be  taken  during  liis  life  by  the  hands  of  the  tenants  or 
farmers  of  the  said  manor  ;  and  wilUng  to  shew  special  favour  to  the 
said  Hugh's  executors  by  reason  of  his  long  service  to  the  king  in  his 
life  time,  the  king  has  granted  them  the  issues  and  profits  aforesaid, 
though  the  said  Hugh  died  before  Easter  last. 

May  16.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  th«  exchequer.     Order,  if  assured 

Westminster,  by  inquisition  or  otherwise  that  the  greatest  part  of  the  profits  of  the 


44    EDWARD    III.  13d 


1370.  Memhratie  15 — cont. 

manors  and  lands  licivinaftcr  mentioned  is  in  the  rent  of  tenants 
payable  at  two  terms  in  the  year,  namely  at  Whitsuntide  and 
Martinmas,  and  tiiat  Edmund  de  Fritheby  and  Margaret  his  wife 
had  or  miglit  have  none  of  such  profits,  to  stay  their  demand  against 
the  said  Edmund  and  Margaret  to  content  the  king  of  a  proportion 
of  their  farm  for  the  premises  from  Wliitsuntide  last  to  24  October 
over  and  above  that  which  the  said  lOdmund  and  Margaret  received 
or  might  receive,  discharging  them  thereof  at  the  exeijequer,  and  to 
charge  the  said  Edmund  and  Margaret  toward  the  king  with  the  residue 
of  the  said  farm  by  them  received  or  from  them  due,  allowing  them 
therein  10/.  yearly  for  wardship  of  the  heir  ;  as  on  10  Febrxiary  in  tlu; 
42nd  year  of  the  reign  Queen  Philippa  to  faiin  let  to  the  said  Kdmund 
and  to  Margaret  m  ho  was  wife  of  Ivalpli  de  liulmere  tenant  in  chief 
(whom  he  has  now  taken  to  wife)  the  wardsliip  of  two  thirds  of  the 
lands  of  the  said  Ralph,  namely  of  the  manors  of  W3'lton,  Laysyngby, 
Lakenby,  Westcotom,  aud  Estcotom  and  of  other  lands  in  Thorpkilton, 
Pynchenthorp  and  Upsale,  which  are  of  the  heritage  of  Ralph  son 
and  heir  of  the  said  Ralph,  and  after  the  death  of  his  said  father  by 
reason  of  the  said  lieirs  nonage  were  in  the  said  queens  hands  by  grant 
of  the  king,  to  hold  from  the  said  Ralph's  death  until  the  lawful  age 
of  the  said  heir,  rendering  to  the  queen  120/.  every  year  at  Midsummer 
and  Christmas  by  even  portions,  so  that  from  that  date  10/.  yearly 
should  be  allowed  tliem  in  that  farm  during  the  nonage  of  the  heir 
for  his  wardship,  \\hich  lands  after  by  the  queens  death  canie  again 
to  the  king's  hands  among  other  lands  of  the  said  Ralph  ;  and  after, 
for  1,000  marks  by  him  paid  to  the  king,  on  24  October  the  king  granted 
to  Peter  de  Mauley  the  wardship  of  all  the  said  Ralphs  lands  to  hold 
imtil  the  lawful  age  of  the  heir  with  the  marriage  of  the  said  heir 
without  rendering  aught  to  the  king  over  and  above  that  sum  ;  and 
now  on  behalf  of  the  said  Edmund  and  Margaret  it  is  shewn  the  king 
that  the  greatest  part  of  the  profits  of  the  premises  is  in  the  rents  of 
tenants  payable  as  aforesaid  at  \\'hitsuntide  and  Martinmas,  avei-ring 
that  they  had  not  nor  might  have  therefrom  any  profit  from  Whitsun- 
tide last  to  24  October,  on  which  day  the  wardship  was  granted  to 
the  said  Peter,  but  the  treasurer  and  the  said  barons  are  purposing 
to  charge  them  with  a  proportion  of  their  farm  between  those  dates, 
pretending  that  divers  other  profits  thereof  then  fell  in,  as  they  did 
not,  and  were  received  by  the  said  Edmund  and  Margaret,  as  they 
were  not,  although  by  virtue  of  the  grant  to  him  made  the  said  Peter, 
as  lawful  was,  levied  in  full  the  whole  jirofit  of  the  premises  arising 
at  Martinmas  last,  wherefore  the  said  Edmund  and  Margaret  have 
prayed  for  remedy. 

Membrase   14. 

• 

June  10.  To  Thomas  de  Musgrave  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  to  deliver 
Westminster,  to  John  duke  of  Lancastre  the  manor  of  Snaytli  and  Cow yk  with  the 
soke,  taken  into  the  kings  hand  by  the  death  of  Queen  PliiUppa, 
together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken,  to  hold  as  the  said  duke  and 
Blanche  his  w  ife  (now  deceased)  held  the  same  before  the  grant  by  them 
made  to  the  said  queen  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  b}^  inquisition,  taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  the  queen  at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that 
count}^  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  that  the  said  duke  and  Blanche 
granted  her  the  said  manor  and  soke  for  life,  and  that  she  after 
demised     the     same     during    her    life    to    Robert    de    Swylyngton, 


140 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370.  Membrane  14- — caul. 

Godfrey  Foljambe,  William  do  Fyncheden  knights  and  Simon  Symeon 
rendering  to  her  50/.  a  year,  tliat  the  same  ought  after  the  said  queen's 
death  to  revert  to  tlie  said  duke,  and  that  they  are  held  in  eliief  by 
knight  service  ;  and  the  king  has  partkmed  the  said  duke  the  trespasses 
connnitted  in  that  behalf,  though  the  grant  and  demise  aforesaid 
were  made  without  his  licence. 

May  28.  To  Robert  de  Thorpe  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  survey 

Westminster.  Huntyngdon  bridge,  which  has  long  been  broken  and  ruinous  to  the 
nuisance  of  all  the  country  and  of  men  crossing  thereby,  and  to  distrain 
and  compel  all  who  ought  and  are  wont  so  to  do  to  repair  the  said 
bridge.  Order  \\ithout  delay  to  open  all  water  gates  of  mill  ponds 
upon  the  said  bridge  w  hereby  the  water  is  held  up,  and  to  keep  them 
open  until  the  foundation  of  the  said  bridge  shall  be  built  as  needful 
is,  and  further  by  amercements  and  other  lawful  means  as  they  shall 
see  fit  to  take  order  that  the  recovery  (sic)  or  new  builchng  thereof 
be  not  delayed  or  liindered  by  such  obstructions  or  otherwise ;  as  lately 
by  the  tenor  of  a  record  and  process  before  John  de  Vallibus  and  liis 
fellows,  justices  in  eyre  of  King  Edward  1  in  Huntyngdonsliire,  wliich 
was  in  the  treasurj-^  and  which  the  king  caused  to  come  before  him  in 
chancery,  it  is  found  that  the  said  bridge  ought  to  be  repaired  by  the 
commons  of  the  \\hole  county,  namely  by  the  four  hundreds  of  Touleslond, 
Leghtonston,  Xormancrosse  and  Hirsthiigston,  so  that  each  hundred 
is  bound  to  do  its  share  at  its  o\\n  cost  ;  and  though  the  men  of  those 
hundreds  are  purposing,  as  they  are  bound,  to  repair  and  in  part  to 
new  build  the  said  bridge  \\hicli  is  now  broken,  to  the  hurt  and  peril 
of  the  king  and  all  the  people  inasmuch  as  the  pubUc  passage  north 
and  south  is  across  the  same,  they  may  not  so  do  as  the  king  has 
learned  because  of  the  depth  of  water,  for  that  the  bridge  is  flooded 
up  to  the  top  by  the  water  of  the  said  ponds  and  o\nng  to  the 
obstructions  thereof  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will  to  obviate  the  hurt 
and  peril  aforesaid,  and  so  far  as  he  may  to  hasten  the  repair  of  the 
bridge. 

May  6.  To  Thomas  de  Musgrave  escheator  in  Cumberland  and  Westmorland. 

Westminster.  Order  to  take  of  Isabel  who  was  wife  of  Christopher  de  Moriceby  an 
oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  kings  licence,  and  to  assign 
her  dower  of  lier  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
liis  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  sending  the  assign- 
ment under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 


May  10.  To  John  Rous  escheator  in  W'arwickshire.      Order  to  remove  the 

Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  A\ith  a  messuage  and  four 
and  a  half  x-irgates  of  land  in  Sekyndcai  held  of  the  honour  of 
Winchester,  a\  hich  came  to  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Gerard 
Burdet  and  of  ^Maud  who  wan  wife  of  Robert  de  Holand  of  whom  the 
said  Gerard  held  the  same,  and  are  yet  in  liis  hand  ;  as  it  is  found  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Gerard  at  his  death 
held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held 
the  premises  by  knight  service  of  the  said  Maud,  who  held  the  same 
of  the  said  honour,  that  the  said  Maud  after  died,  and  by  her  death 
her  tenements  came  to  the  king's  hands  with  the  services  of  the  said 
Gerard,  that  Robert  de  Sekyndon  clerk  by  the  king's  commission 
occupied  the  premises  from  the  said  Gerard's  death,  who  died  9  July 


44  EDWARD  TTT.  141 


1370,  Memhrane  14 — cont. 

in  the  23ixl  year  of  the  reign,  and  that  John  Burdet  knight  son  of  the 
said  Gerard  is  liis  next  heir  and  of  full  age  ;  and  on  1(5  Septein}>er  in 
the  23rd  year  of  his  reign  the  king  took  the  homage  of  Robert  do 
Holand,  son  and  heir  of  the  said  Robert  and  Maud,  and  commanded 
livery  to  be  given  him  of  all  the  lands  held  by  the  said  Maud  as  well 
jointly  with  her  said  husband  as  in  dower  or  otherwise  for  Ufe  or 
in  fee  tail. 

June  26.  To  brother  John  Garyny  monk  of  St.  Michel  in  peril  of  the  sea 
Westminster.  Normandy,  and  prior  of  ^'ale  priory  in  the  isle  of  Garnereye  subject  to  the 
said  monastery.  Writ  de  inlendendo,  directing  him  to  pay  to  Walter 
Huet  keeper  of  the  islands  of  Jereseye,  Gernereye,  Serk  and  Aureneye 
or  to  his  attorneys  in  the  said  islands  60/.  a  year  upon  his  wages  and 
the  wages  of  his  men  guarding  those  islands,  being  the  farm  of  the 
said  priory,  at  Christnias  and  Whitsuntide  by  even  portions,  taking 
their  accjuittance  ;  as  at  the  prayer  of  tlie  said  prior  the  king  lately 
by  letters  patent  committed  to  him  the  keeping  of  the  said  priory, 
which  is  taken  into  the  Idng's  hand  by  reason  of  the  war  with  France, 
and  of  all  the  lands  and  possessions  thereof,  to  hold  so  long  as  the 
same  shall  remain  in  the  king's  hand,  rendering  the  said  sum  yearly 
at  the  exchequer  at  the  aforesaid  terms,  as  used  to  be  done  at  other 
times  when  by  reason  of  war  between  England  and  France  the  said 
priory  Avas  in  the  king's  hand.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

May  21.  To  William  de  Chorlegh  escheator  in  Lancashire.     Order  to  remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  lands  of  Thomas 
de  Bartaille  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of 
the  nonage  of  John  son  of  John  Dautry  his  cousin  and  heir ;  as  the  said 
Thomas  was  tenant  by  knight  service  of  the  king  as  of  the  lands  which 
were  of  William  de  Coucy  deceased,  lately  in  the  king's  hand,  and 
the  said  John  proved  his  age  before  John  de  Scothei-skelf  late 
escheator  in  Yorkshire  ;  and  at  another  time  the  king  by  letters 
patent  gave  to  John  de  Coupland  (now  deceased)  and  to  Joan  his 
wife  (yet  hving)  for  their  lives  all  the  manors,  lands  etc.  of  the  said 
WilUam  in  Cumberland,  W^estmorland  and  Lancashire  with  the 
knights'  fees  thereto  pertaining. 

May  6.  To  Thomas  de  Musgrave  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  to  take 

Westminster,  of  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  Edmimd  de  Thweng  an  oath  that  she  will 
not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  in  presence  of  Thomas  Lovell 
of  Skelton  to  Avhom  the  king  has  committed  the  wardsliip  of  those 
lands  until  the  lawful  age  of  his  heir,  if  being  warned  he  will  attend, 
to  assign  her  dower  of  the  lands  of  the  said  John  {sic)  her  husband 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  l>y  reason  of  the  nonage 
of  the  said  John's  heir,  sending  the  assignment  to  be  enrolled  in 
chancery. 

May  20.  To    Walter   de    Kelby    escheator   in    Lincohishire.     Order   not    to 

Westminster,  meddle  further  with  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Byker  extending  to 
Byker,  Svvynesheved,  Donyngton  and  Soterton,  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  John  de  Sheffeld  knight,  deUvering  up  any 
issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  Idng  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Jolm  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that 
county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  moiety  of 
others  than  the  king. 


142  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370.  Mernf/rane  14 — cont. 

May  4.  To  William   Aunsel  escheator  in   Herefordshire.     Order  to  assign 

Westminster,  and  deliver  to  Robert  de  Kendale  and  Maud  his  wife,  late  the  wife 
of  Thomas  Rous  tenant  by  kniglit  service  of  the  bishopric  of  Hereford 
lately  void  and  in  the  king's  hand,  the  dower  of  the  said  Maud  of  the 
lands  of  the  said  Thomas  which  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  his  death 
and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  lieir,  sending  the  assignment  to  be 
enrolled  in  chancery. 

July  5.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  account 

Westminster,  with  Henry  de  Maunnesfeld  clerk  of  the  king's  works  of  Childerlange- 
leye  concerning  his  expenses  laid  out  by  the  king's  order  at  Littel- 
london  by  view  and  testimony  of  brother  William  de  Wolverton  and 
Richard  Parker  controllers  of  the  said  woiks,  allowing  him  in  his 
account  so  much  as  by  such  testimony  they  shall  be  assured  that 
he  has  laid  out  thereupon,  and  doing  further  as  the  nature  of  the 
account  requires. 

Membrane   13. 

June  2G.  To  the  keepers,  bailiffs  or  farmers  of  the  king's  manor  of  Haveryng 
Westminster,  atte  Boure  for  the  time  being.  Order  of  the  issues  of  that  manor  to 
pay  to  Alice  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Cestre  the  arrears  of  10^.  a  year 
from  3  April  in  the  44th  year  of  the  reipn,  and  henceforward  to  pay 
lier  that  sum  every  year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions, 
taking  her  acquittance  ;  as  on  that  day  of  his  favour  and  for  her 
good  service  the  king  by  letters  patent  gi-anted  her  10^.  a  year  to  be 
taken  as  aforesaid  during  her  life  or  until  other  order  shall  be  taken 
for  her  estate. 
Et  erat  patens. 

June  21.  To  WilUam  Aunrel  escheator  in  Herefordshire.  Order  to  deliver  to 
Westminster.  Jolm  Eylesford  knight  and  Isabel  lus  Mife  the  manor  of  Bremfeld, 
which  is  in  the  kings  hand  by  the  death  of  Parnell  who  was  wife  of 
John  Boulewas  knight  and  of  John  de  Boulewas,  together  Avith 
the  issues  thereof  taken  since  the  deatli  of  John  BoulcAvas,  saving  to 
the  lung  the  issues  taken  from  the  said  Parnell's  death  to  the  death 
of  John  Boulewas  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  John  Boulewas,  who  died  12  April  last,  held 
at  his  death  no  lands  in  that  county  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in 
service,  but  long  before  his  death  A\ith  the  king's  Kcence  granted  the 
reversion  of  the  said  manor,  then  held  for  life  of  his  heritage  by  the 
said  Parnell  who  died  10  August  last,  after  her  death  to  Hugh  de 
Monj'ton,  Thomas  de  Burghope,  John  de  Stretton  and  Roger  Partrich 
and  to  their  heirs  for  ever,  that  they  received  the  attornment  of  the 
said  Parnell,  and  granted  to  the  said  John  Boulewas  and  to  the  heirs  of 
his  body  the  remainder  of  the  said  manor,  which  after  her  death  ought 
by  virtue  of  the  grant  and  attornment  aforesaid  to  have  remained  to 
them,  with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  said  John  de 
Eylesford  and  Isabel  and  to  their  heirs,  that  the  said  Jolin  Boulewas 
died  A\ithout  issue,  Avherefore  the  same  ought  by  the  form  of  the 
gift  to  remain  to  John  de  Eylesford  and  Isabel,  that  the  said  John 
Boule\\as  in  his  life  time  sued  not  out  of  the  king's  hand  the  said 
manor  which  was  in  the  king's  hand  by  the  said  Parnell's  death, 
and  that  the  said  manor  is  held  in  chief  by  the  service  of  keeping 
the  king's  forest  of  Morf ;  and  the  king  has  taken  the  homage  and 
fealty  of  John  de  Eylesford.  By   p.s.    [28427.] 


44   EDWARD    I  IT.  143 


1870,  Membrane  13 — cont. 

June  21.  To  William  Banastre  osolieator  in  Salop.  Order  to  deliver  to 
VVpstiniiistcr.  John  de  Kylesford  knight  and  I.sal)ol  iiis  wife  the  manors  of  Boulewas 
and  l.senbiugge  taken  into  the  kings  hand  by  the  death  of  John 
Boulewas,  together  with  the  i.ssue.s  thereof  taken ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  John  Boulewas 
at  his  death  held  the  said  nuinors  of  the  gift  of  Hugh  de  Monyton, 
Thomas  de  Burghope,  John  de  Stretton  and  Roger -Part rich  made 
with  the  king's  licence  to  him  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  with 
remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  said  John  de  Kylesford 
and  Isabel  and  to  their  heirs  for  ever,  that  he  died  without  issue, 
wherefore  the  same  ought  by  the  form  of  the  gift  to  remain  to  John 
de  Eylesford  and  I.sabel,  and  tiuit  the  said  manors  are  held  in  chief 
by  the  service  of  keeping  the  king's  hays  and  forests  in  all  the 
county  of  Salop ;  and  the  king  has  taken  the  homage  and  fealty  of 
John  de  Eylesford.  By  p.s.  [as  above], 

June  6.  To  the  collectors  of  the  custom  and  subsidy  upon  wool,  hides  and 

Westminster,  woolfells  in  the  ])ort  of  the  city  of  London,  and  to  the  controller  in 
the  said  port.  Order  to  deliver  to  John  de  Chichestre  mayor  of  the 
said  city,  Adam  Frauncevs,  William  Walleworth,  John  Pyel  aldermen, 
John  de  Cantebrugge  chamberlain,  Hugh  Holbeche,  John  Philippot 
and  John  Organ  citizens,  or  to  their  deputies,  one  foil  of  the  cocket 
enclosed  under  the  seals  of  the  controller  and  of  the  collectors  or  one 
of  them,  suflfering  them  to  take  and  have  of  the  said  customs  and 
subsidies  the  sum  hereinafter  rehearsed  during  the  term  herein 
mentioned,  and  taking  their  acquittance  ;  as  the  king  by  letters  patent 
has  granted  to  the  said  mayor,  aldermen,  chamberlain  and  citizens 
and  to  other  the  citizens  of  London  that  they  by  themselves  and  their 
deputies  shall  Authodt  gainsa\'ing  have  and  take  by  indenture  to  be 
from  time  to  time  made  between  them  and  the  said  collectors  and 
controller,  as  well  for  themselves  and  in  their  own  name  as  in  the 
name  of  other  the  citizens,  of  the  said  customs  and  subsidies  due  to  the 
king  upon  exports  of  every  sack  of  wool  16s'.  8f/.  of  natives  and  20s. 
of  aliens,  of  every  last  of  hides  'ASs.  4(/.  of  natives  and  405.  of  aUens, 
of  every  240  woolfells  I65.  Hd.  of  natives  and  205.  of  ahens  from  the 
date  of  these  presents  until  a  sum  of  5,000/.  by  them  advanced  to 
the  king  for  furtherance  of  the  war  and  for  other  particular  causes 
be  fully  levied  ;  and  for  their  greater  security  it  is  the  king's  will  that 
the  said  mayor  and  others  named  or  their  deputies  shall  have  in  their 
hands  one  foil  of  the  cocket  as  aforesaid,  and  that  during  the  said 
term  no  wool,  hides  or  woolfells  shall  pass  from  that  port  without 
being  sealed  with  both  foils  thereof,  provided  alwaj-s  that,  so  soon 
as  the  said  sum  shall  by  them  be  levied,  the  said  foil  shall  be  delivered 
to  the  treasurer  and  the  king's  chamberlains,  and  the  said  letters  patent 
given  up  to  them  to  be  cancelled. 

Mandate  to  the  treasurer  and  to  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  to 
allow  the  said  collectors  from  time  to  time  at  the  exchequer  so 
much  of  the  said  customs  and  subsidies  in  that  port  as  they  shall 
be  assured  that  the  said  mayor  and  others  or  their  deputies  take 
thereof  by  virtue  of  the  said  letters  patent,  until  5,000/.  shall  be 
so  levied,  thereof  discharging  as  well  the  collectors  as  the  said 
mayor  and  others,  and  taking  again  of  them  the  said  foil  of  the 
cocket  and  the  said  letters  patent  when  that  sum  shall  by  them  be 
levied. 


144  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 

•jf^YO  Membrane  13 — cont. 

July  3  Order  to  the  sheritT  of  Lincoln  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elect^-d 

\Vost,nia«ter.  instead  of  William  Hakseye  of  Hedynghani,  who  is  insuflieiently 
qualified  as  tlie  king  has  learned. 

June  '>0  To  John  de  Bisshopeston  escheator  in  Kent.     Order  to  take  of 

Westminster.  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Leyhani  tenant  m  chief  an  oath 
that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  in  presence  of 
Richard  Aleyn  guardian  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  his  death,  if  being  warned  he  will  attend,  to  assign 
her  dower  thereof,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled 
in  chancery. 

May  18  To  the  collectors  of  the  petty  custom  in  the  port  of  London.     Order, 

Westuunstor.  upon  the  petition  of  William  Cees,  if  assured  by  true  witness  or  other- 
wise that  four  packs  of  cloths  were  cocketed  and  customed  at 
the  port  of  Suthampton  and  the  custom  thereupon  truly  paid  to 
deariest  the  same,  sullering  the  said  WilUam  to  carry  them  wluther 
he  will  •  as  Ills  petition  shews  that  he  laded  the  said  cloths  in  a  slup 
of  William  Osbarne  in  the  port  of  Suthampton  to  take  over  sea,  and 
that  the  said  collectors  are  unlawfully  demanding  ot  him  a  second 
payment  of  the  custom  thereupon  as  if  they  were  not  before  cocketed 
and  customed,  for  that  they  were  taken  out  of  the  said  ship,  put  in 
another  and  transferred  to  the  port  of  London,  though  they  were 
cocketed  and  customed  by  the  collectors  of  customs  at  Suthampton, 
and  the  custom  was  truly  paid,  praying  for  the  dearrest  thereof. 

May  16.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  account 

Wcstmir>ster.  ^nth  John  le  Man,  executor  of  Fulk  Payforer  late  clerk  of  the  king  s 
works  in  the  castle  and  town  of  Quenesburgh,  as  well  concerning  the 
said  Fulk's  wages  and  the  wages  of  masons,  carpenters  and  other 
workmen  whatsoever,  as  concerning  the  costs  by  him  incurred  upon  the 
said  works,  and  other  costs  foreign  thereto,  and  payments  by  him 
made  by  virtue  of  divers  writs  of  privy  seal  while  clerk  of  the  said 
works,  causing  the  said  executor  to  have  allo\vance  as  well  of  the 
wages  and  costs  aforesaid  [as]  of  4^.  2d.  for  ten  dozen  bovvstrings  for 
fur^shing  the  said  castle  and  78s.  Gd.  for  divers  seeds  by  him  bought 
for  sowing  the  castle  garden,  and  further  doing  what  the  nature  of 
the  account  requires. 

May  1  To  WilUam  Auncell  escheator  in  Herefordshire  and  the  march  of 

Westminsler.  Wales  adjacent.  Order  to  keep  in  the  king's  hand  the  manor  of 
Aleyne^more  co.  Hereford  until  further  order  removing  the  king  s 
hand  and  not  meddhng  further  mth  the  ham  et  of  Wylyiiliale  and 
manor  of  Tregget  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John 
le  Rous  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  Juhana  his  sister,  and 
delivering  up  any  issues  taken  of  the  said  hamlet  and  manor  of  Iregget 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
the  said  John  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  bailiwack  m  chief 
in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  held  the  manor  of  Aleynes- 
more  by  knight  service  of  the  bishopric  of  Hereford  ^^/^^^  and 
in  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Lewis  de  Charleton  late  bishop 
the  said  hamlet  and  manor  of  Tregget  of  others  than  the  king,  and 
that  the  said  Juhana,  being  within  age,  is  his  next  heir. 


44    EDWARD   III.  145 


1870.  Membrane   12. 

May  30.  To  John  de  Bis.shope.ston  escheator  in  Kent,  Surrey  and  Sussex. 

Westminster.  Order  to  cause  Thomas  de  Ponynges,  son  and  heir  of  Michael  de 
Ponyngt's  knight  tenant  in  chief,  to  have  seisin  as  well  of  his  said  father's 
lantis  as  of  tlie  lands  of  his  heritage  held  in  tlow  er  or  otherwise  for  Ufe 
by  Joan  who  was  wife  of  the  said  Michael,  and  taken  into  the  king's 
liand  by  their  death  ;  as  the  said  Thomas  has  proved  his  age  before 
the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty. 

To  John  Rokewode  escheator  in  Norffolk  and  Suffolk.  Like  order  ; 
as  Thonuis  de  Ponynges  knight  has  proved  liis  age  before  John  de 
Bisshopeston  escheator   in    Sussex.  By    p.s.    [28370.] 

May  15.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  stay 

Westminster,  their  demand  made  against  WilUam  de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester 
to  answer  for  fines  etc.  during  the  last  vacancy  of  the  bishopric  etc. 
{as  above,  p.   133). 

April  30.         To  Joiin   Rous  escheator  in   Leycestershire.     Order    to  deliver  to 
Westminster.  .lolm  (toderich  the  baiUwick  of  Oertre  hundred  (r/s  ab(we,  p.  135). 

June  20.  To    Edmund    Bernard,    Thomas    Bayllif    and    William    Muleward, 

Westminster,  farmers  of  the  manor  of  Dodcford  co.  Xorhamptun  of  the  heritage 
of  John  de  Keynes  knight  tenant  in  chief  deceased.  W>it  de  in- 
tendendo,  commanding  them  to  pay  the  farm  of  the  said  manor  to 
John  de  Beverle  the  king's  esquire  at  the  terms  in  their  commission 
appointed,  so  long  as  they  shall  be  farmers  thereof  and  he  shall  have 
the  wardshij)  of  the  said  deceased's  lands  ;  as  of  his  favour  the  king 
has  granted  by  letters  patent  to  John  de  Beverle  the  wardship  of 
the  said  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  the  said 
John  de  Kaynes  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  to  hold 
without  rendering  aught  to  the  king  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said 
heir,  and  his  marriage,  and  if  the  said  heir  shall  die  before  that  time 
and  shall  not  by  him  be  married,  liis  heir  being  within  age  and 
unmarried,  John  de  Bev'erle  shall  have  the  wardship  until  the 
lawful  age  of  such  heir  and  his  marriage,  and  so  from  heir  to  heir  until 
one  shall  come  to  lawful  age  and  John  de  Beverle  shall  obtain  his 
effectual  marriage,  provided  that  all  that  time  he  shall  find  competent 
maintenance  for  every  heir  wliile  in  his  wardshiji,  bearing  and 
performing  the  king's  services  and  other  charges  upon  the  said  lands. 
The  hke  to  the  following  farmers  of  manors  of  the  same  heritage  : 

John  Wacche  farmer  of  the  manor  of  Piriton  co.  Wiltesir. 

Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Kaynes  knight,  farmer  of  the 
manor  of  Combekeynes  co.  Dorset. 

John  de  Blokkele  chaplain,  farmer  of  the  manor  of  Oxhilve  co. 
Warrewyk. 

June  21.  To  John  de  Froille  escheator  in  Oxfordshire.     Order  not  to  meddle 

Westminster,  further  with  the  manors  of  Lynham  and  Escotc  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  Adam  de  Shareshull,  delivering  up  an}'  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  the  said  Adam  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that 
county  in  chief  in  liis  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  manors  for 
life  with  reversion  to  Joan  (yet  Li\ing)  late  the  wife  of  William 
Fienlys  now  deceased,  whom  Stephen  de  \'alence  has  taken  to  wife, 

CB    10 


140 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1370.  Merhbrane  12— cont. 

by  virtue  of  a  grant  tlioroof  niailo  by  Richard  de  Chyderle  clerk  to  the 
said  Williaiu  and  Joan  and  to  tiio  heirs  of  the  said  VViUiam,  and  tiiat 
the  same  are  held  of  others  than  tlie  king. 

July  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Essex.     Order  to  cause  John  Bourgcher  knight 

VVeatniinster.  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage  and  5  acres  of  land,  and  the  prior  of 
Christ  Church  Canterbury  of  the  residue  of  12  acres  of  land  in  Me.ssyng 
Jield  by  William  Goldyng  hanged  for  felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  intjuisition,  taken  by  the  sheriff,  that  the  said  messuage 
and  12  acres  of  land  have  been  in  his  hand  a  year  and  a  day,  that 
the  said  William  lield  the  messuage  and  5  acres  thereof  by  knight 
service  of  the  said  Jolm  le  Bourgcher,  and  tiie  residue  of  the  said 
prior  by  the  rod,  and  that  John  Cemoun  late  sheriff  had  the  year 
and  a  day,  and  the  said  .John  Bourgcher  the  waste,  and  ought  to  answer 
to  the  king  for  the  same. 

July  8.  To  Thomas  de  Musgrave  escheator  in  Cumberland  and  Westmor- 

Westminstcr.  land.  Order  to  take  the  fealty  of  Hugh,  son  of  Hugh  de  Louthre  the 
elder  knight,  according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to 
deliver  to  him  and  Maud  his  wife  a  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Neweton 
Reygne  co.  Cumberland  taken  into  tlie  king's  hand  by  the  death  of 
Margaret  who  was  wife  of  Hugh  the  elder,  together  with  the  issues 
thereof  taken,  but  not  to  meddle  further  witli  the  manor  of  Louthre, 
[the  town  of  Louthre  Quale]  and  the  hamlet  of  Quale  co.  Westmorland, 
ten  messuages  and  40  aci'es  of  land  in  Wythop  in  the  town  of  Braith- 
wayt  CO.  Cumberland  likewise  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  delivering 
up  any  issues  of  those  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  divers 
inquisitions,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Margaret  at  her 
death  held  the  said  part  in  dower  for  her  life  with  reversion  to  the 
said  Hugh  the  son  and  Maud  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  their  bodies  by 
virtue  of  a  feoffment  thereof  to  them  made  with  the  king's  licence 
by  Nicholas  del  Close  and  John  Tannour  chaplains,  the  said  manor, 
town  and  hamlet  Ukewise  for  her  life  of  the  gift  of  Thomas  Hanand 
chaplain  to  her  and  her  said  husband  for  their  hves  with  remainder 
to  the  said  Hugh  the  son  and  Maud  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  their 
bodies,  and  the  premi.ses  in  Wythop  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  that 
the  said  Hugh  her  son  is  her  next  heir  and  of  full  age,  and  that  the 
third  part  of  tlie  said  manor  of  Neuton  is  held  in  chief  by  grand  ser- 
jeanty,  namely  by  the  service  of  finding  the  third  part  of  one  armed  man 
40  days  Anth  the  king  in  Scotland,  the  residue  of  the  premises  of  others 
than  the  king  ;  and  for  half  a  mark  by  Hugh  the  son  paid  the  king 
has  respited  his  homage  until  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next. 


Membrane  II. 

July  5.  To  John  Rous  escheator  in  Warwickshire.     Order  not  to  meddle 

Westminster,  further  with  25s.  of  yearly  rent  issuing  from  five  messuages  and  2§  virgates 
of  land  in  Bemangle,  13s.  4d.  of  yearly  rent  issuing  from  a  messuage 
and  one  carucate  of  land  in  Sutton  upon  Colefeld,  and  I2d.  of  rent 
in  Wj'lmendecote  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John 
de  Lysours  knight,  deUvering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
said  John  at  his  death  held  no  lands  or  tenements  in  that  county  of 
the  king  nor  of  others  in  demesne  nor  in  service,  but  long  before  his 
death  gave  the  said  rents  to  Hugh  de  Lysours  and  Beatrice  his  wife 


44    EDWARD    III.  147 


1870.  Memhrnne  11 — cont. 

(both  docea-sed)  and  to  tlio  hoirs  of  their  bodies  with  reversion  for 
lack  of  such  <an  heir  to  himself  and  his  heirs,  tiiat  the  said  Hugh  died 
in  the  life  time  of  the  said  Beatrice  witiiout  an  heir  of  her  begotten, 
that  the  .said  John  after  granted  the  reversion  of  the  premises  to 
(Jregorv  parson  of  Hedon,  John  de  Longevilers,  R()l)ert  de  Donham 
and  Wilhani  son  of  RdlxTt  de  liathehiy  and  to  their  heirs,  by  virtue  of 
which  grant  the  said  Beatrice  attorned  t(»nant  to  tifem,  and  that  the 
same  are  held  by  others  than  tlie  king. 

The  Hke  to  \\  illiam  de  Cate.sby  late  escheator  in  Warwickshire. 

Aug.  6.  To  the  collectors  in  the  archdeaconries  of  Dorset  and  Sah.sbury 

Clarondun.  of  the  three  years'  tenth  last  grant(>d  to  the  king  by  the  clergy  of  the 
province  of  Canterbury.  Order  of  the  money  by  them  levied  to 
the  king's  use  and  in  their  keeping  to  deUver  to  Henry  de  Wakefeld  the 
king's  clerk,  treasurer  of  the  great  wardrobe,  260/.  for  expen.ses  of 
the  kings  household,  taking  his  accjuittance. 

July  12.  To  Thomas  de  Musgrave  escheator  in  Cumberland.     Order,  if  Thomas 

Westminster,  de  Bleneou  and  lOlizabeth  his  w ife,  Williaju  Wythlawe  and  Joan  his  wife 
shall  find  security  for  whicii  the  escheator  will  answer  to  answer  to  the 
king  for  their  relief  due  for  the  manor  of  Jonby,  and  for  tlie  issues 
of  the  same  from  the  death  of  Robert  son  and  heir  of  Nicholas  de 
X'espount  to  this  date  in  case  it  sliall  be  found  that  the  said  manor 
is  held  of  the  heir  of  WilUam  de  Grej^stok  tenant  in  chief,  who  is  a  minor 
in  the  king's  wardship,  to  deliver  the  said  manor  and  issues  upon  that 
security  to  the  said  Thomas  de  Bleneou  and  Elizabeth,  William 
Wj'thlawe  and  Joan  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  the  said  Robert  died  seised  of  no  lands  held  in  cliief, 
but  seised  of  the  said  manor  by  virtue  of  a  feoffment  made  by  Jolin 
de  Lancastre  knight  to  the  said  Nicholas  and  Ellen  his  wife,  father 
and  mother  of  the  said  Robert,  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  that 
the  said  Elizabeth  and  Joan  being  daughters  of  the  said  Nicholas 
and  Ellen  are  sisters  and  next  heirs  of  the  said  R,obert  and  of  full 
age,  and  that  the  said  manor  is  held  of  John  de  Kirketon  the  heir 
of  Cregory  Burdon  by  homage  and  fealty  and  by  the  service  of 
rendering  5s.  '3(1.  a  year  to  cornage  ;  and  a  plea  is  penchng  before  the 
king  in  chancery  between  the  king  and  John  de  Kirketon,  and 
between  the  king  and  Thomas  de  Ughtred  knight,  whether  the 
same  is  held  of  the  heir  of  William  late  baron  of  Grej'^stok  or  of  the 
said  John  de  Kirketon  or  the  said  Thomas  de  Ughtred. 

May  30.  To  John  de  Bisshopeston  escheator  in  Kent  etc.      Writ  of  livery 

Westminster,  to  Thomas  de  Ponynges  knight  {as  above,  p.   145).       By  p.s.  [28376.] 

To  John  Rokewode  escheator  in  Norflfolk  etc.    Like  writ  {as  above. 
I.e.)  By  p.s.  (the  same  writ). 

July  8.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  cause 

Westminster.  Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Coupland  to  have  the  respite  until  the 
quinzaine  of  Easter  next  which  the  king  of  his  favour  has  given  her 
for  all  manner  of  debts  and  accounts  demanded  of  her  at  the  exchequer 
to  the  kings  use  as  well  in  her  own  name  as  in  the  name  of  her  said 
husband,  releasing  any  distress  made  for  that  cause. 


Ua  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370.  Membrane  11 — cont. 

Aug.  5.  To  John  de  Bisshopeston  oscheator  in  Kent,  Surrey  and  ISIiddleBex. 

clarendon.     Order  in  the  name  of  the  king's  lordship  to  take  a  simple  seisin  within 
the  gates  of  Certeseye  abbey,  now  void  by  the  death  of  William  the 
last  abbot,  and  forthwith  to  depart  without  taking  fine,  fealty  or 
aeknowledgnient  whatsoever  of  any  tenant  thereof  or  otherwise,  so 
that  he  sliall  not  by  reason  therw)f  abide  more  than  one  day  nor  leave 
any  substitute  in  his  room,  but  shall  suffer  the  now  prior  and  the 
convent  freely  to  administer  the  said  abbey,  the  temporalities,  goods 
and    ])roperty    whatsoever   thereto    belonging,    taking    and    disposing 
of  all  emoluments,  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent,  and  shall  not 
by  reason  of  this  vacancy  meddle  with  the  keeping  of  the  said  abbey, 
the  manors,  granges,  lands,  rents,  property  or  goods  thereof  whatso- 
ever, nor  trouble  the  said  prior  and  convent  in  aught  contrary  to 
the  said   letters   patent,   saving   to   the   king   the   knights'   fees   and 
advovvsons   thereto   belonging,   and   saving  also  50   marks,   and    the 
issues  of  any  lands  purchased  by  the  abbot  and  convent  or  by  their 
predecessors  since  26  February  in  the   IGth  year  of  the  reign  ;    as 
on  that  day  the  king  by  charter  granted  to  John  then  abbot  and 
to  the  convent  that  at  every  vacancy  by  death,  cession,  resignation 
or  otherwise  the  prior  and  convent  and  their  successors  should  have 
the  keeping  of  the  said  abbey  and  of  the  temporalities  thereof,  and  all 
property  and  goods  thereto  belonging  as  fully  as  any  abbot  had  in  times 
past  when  the  see  was  filled  or  as  the  king  might  or  ought  to  have  had  if 
the  same  were  kept  in  his  hand,  with  free  administration  of  the  said 
abbey  etc.,   taking  and  disposing  of  all  manner  of  emoluments  as 
they  should  think   best,  saving  to  the  king  during  such  vacancies 
the  knights'  fees  held  of  the  abbey  and  the  advowsons  of  churches, 
rendering  to  the  king  at  every  vacancy  50  marks  if  it  should  last  four 
months  or  less,   and  if  longer  in  proportion,   and  granted   that  no 
escheator,  sheriff,  bailifif  or  minister  of  the  king  should  meddle  with 
the  keeping  of  the  abbey  etc.  at  any  vacancy,  except  that  in  the 
beginning  of  every  vacancy  his  escheator  or  other  minister  should 
take  a  simple  seisin  and  depart  as  aforesaid,  not  abiding  more  than 
one  day  or  leaving  any  substitute  in  his  room  ;    and  the  said  abbey 
is  now  void  as  aforesaid,  as  the  prior  and  convent  have  certified  to 
the  king. 

To  John  Foille  {sic)  escheator  in  Berkshire  and  Wyltesir.  Like 
order  to  suffer  the  said  prior  and  convent  freely  to  administer  the 
temporalities,  goods  and  property  of  the  said  abbey  within  his  baili- 
wick ;  as  the  Idng  has  comnianded  John  de  Bisshopeston  escheator 
in  Surrey  and  Sussex  to  take  a  simple  seisin  in  form  aforesaid. 

Membrane  10. 

May  14.  To  William  de  Wyndesore  the  king's  lieutenant  in  Ireland,  and 

Westminster,  to  the  chancellor  and  treasurer  in  Ireland.  Order,  upon  a  petition 
made  on  behalf  of  Anabilla  who  was  wife  of  John  Comyn  and  of  his 
heirs,  if  the  said  John's  lands  in  Ireland  are  in  the  king's  hand  for 
the  cause  hereinafter  mentioned  and  for  none  other,  to  cause  them 
to  be  fully  restored  and  delivered  to  the  said  Anabilla  and  the  said 
heirs,  of  the  king's  favour  delivering  to  them  also  any  issues  taken  of 
the  same,  notwithstanding  that  lately  with  the  assent  of  the  prelates, 
nobles  and  others  of  liis  council  the  king  made  order  that  all  lords 
and  others  of  England  having  or  claiming  lordships  or  lands  in  Ireland 


44    EDWAKD    HI. 


149 


1370. 


Membrane  10 — cont. 


sliould  at  Eastej  in  the  43r(l  year  of  his  reign  be  in  Ireland  well  arrayed 
and  furnished  with  anus  and  men  to  dwell  upon  their  lands  and  upon 
the  eon(|uest  thereof,  that  in  case  for  any  necessary  liindrance  any 
such  lord  might  not  go  thither  in  person  he  should  send  other 
sufficient  men  in  his  name  there  to  abide  at  his  own  cost  upon  the 
defence,  goveriiancc  and  concjuest  thereof,  and  that  in  case  he  would 
not  so  do  the  king  should  take  the  said  lands  and  'lordships  into  his 
hand  to  be  given  at  his  pleasure  to  othei-s  who  would  dwell  there 
upon  the  defence  and  c()nt|uest  thereof  ;  aa  the  said  petition  shews 
that  though  the  king  of  his  favour  granted  the  said  John  licence  for 
particular  causes  to  abide  in  England  from  the  said  feast  until  Easter 
last,  promising  that  he  should  be  no  loser  because  of  his  absence 
from  Ireland,  nor  be  troubled  for  that  he  sent  not  other  men  thither 
in  his  name  as  he  ought  to  have  done  according  to  the  said  ordinance, 
and  by  letters  uncU^r  the  privy  seal  commanded  the  said  lieutenant 
notwithstanding  the  same  to  suffer  the  said  John  of  the  king's 
favour  to  have  respite  until  Easter  last  of  coming  thither  and 
sending  other  men  in  his  name  as  aforesaid,  who  died  before 
Easter  last  as  the  Idng  has  learned,  the  said  lieutenant  and  the 
others  have  commanded  all  his  lands  in  Ireland  to  be  taken  as 
forfeit  int(^  the  king's  hand  contrary  to  his  said  licence,  for  that 
the  said  John  came  not  tliitlier  nor  sent  other  men  there  to  abide  as 
aforesaid,  praying  for  remedy  ;  and  for  the  said  John's  good  service 
as  well  to  the  king  as  to  Lionel  duke  of  Clarence  liis  son  the  king 
would  deal  generously  with  the  said  Anabilla  and  with  his  said  heirs. 
Proviso  that  they  shall  do  and  find  what  is  fitting  for  the  said  lands 
from  Easter  last  according  to  the  said  ordinance.  By  K. 

May  15.  To  Ralph  Basset,  guardian  of  certain  lands  which  were  of  John 

Westminster.  Moubray  of  Axiholm  tenant  in  chief  deceased  and  are  in  the  king's 
hand  bj'  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir.  Order,  upon  the  petition 
of  brother  PhiUp  Kenulphi  proctor  in  J'^ngland  of  the  abbot  of  Fecamp, 
to  whom  the  king  has  committed  the  keeping  of  all  the  said  abbot's 
lands  and  possessions  in  England,  if  assured  that  the  said  abbot  and 
liis  predecessors  heretofore  took  and  ought  to  take  every  year  of  the 
chace  of  the  woods  of  Stanherst  and  Rippefeld,  which  chace  is  of  the 
said  heir's  heritage,  five  good  bucks  in  time  of  grease  (i7i  gresso)  and 
five  does  in  time  of  fermison,  all  whole  with  their  liides,  to  cause  the 
same  to  be  dehvered  for  this  years  season  to  the  said  abbot  or  his 
proctor  as  used  to  be  done  heretofore  ;  as  liis  petition  shews  that 
by  virtue  of  a  fine  levied  in  the  court  of  King  Henry  111  between 
the  then  abbot  and  John  de  Braheuse  ancestor  of  the  said  heir,  the 
abbot  ought  to  take  the  bucks  and  does  aforesaid,  which  at  his 
summons  ought  to  be  taken  and  delivered  to  him  or  his  bailiffs  by  the 
said  John  de  Braheuse  and  his  heirs  or  by  their  bailifis,  and  that  from 
the  levying  of  the  said  fine  until  for  the  cause  aforesaid  the  said  chace 
came  to  the  Idngs  hands  he  and  his  predecessors  were  in  peaceable 
possession  thereof  by  the  hands  of  the  keepers  of  the  said  chace,  praying 
for  Uvery  of  the  arrears  thereof  from  the  time  the  chace  came  to  the 
king's  hand. 

Aug.  3.  To  the  customers  in  the  port  of  London  for  the  time  being.     Order 

Clarendon     charging  them  to  view  and  examine  certain  indentures  made  between 

Manor.       the  king  and  several  prelates,  earls,  lords,  knights,  clerks  and  others 

of  the  one  part  and  Richard  earl  of  Arondell  and  Surreye  of  the  other 


160 


CALENDAR  i)F  (LOSE  ROLLS. 


1;{7().  Memltrane  10 — coiU. 

])art,  and  to  .suffer  the  said  earl  or  his  (Jeputies,  by  indenture  to  be 
made  between  tliem  anil  the  eustoniei's,  to  levy  nntl  have  2A  marks 
of  every  saek  of  wool  whicli  shall  be  huied  in  the  said  i)ort  between 
this  date  and  Midsummer  next  until  the  .said  earl  be  eont^ented  of  what 
is  due  to  him  aeeording  to  tlu;  form  of  the  indentures  afore.said,  and 
further  it  is  the  kings  plea.sure  that,  as  Ix'tter  security  for  the  said 
payment,  the  customers  shall  deliver  to  the  said  earl  or  his  deputies 
one  part  of  the  cocket  seal,  e.\pres.sly  forbiilding  any  wool  [to  be 
sealed  |  in  the  said  port  w  ith  the  part  remaining  with  the  cust<jmers 
without  that  part  and  so  to  be  laded  and  pass  out  during  the  said 
term  of  jjaymcnl,  and  by  the  acquittance  to  be  received  of  the  said 
earl  and  his  deputies  for  the  sum  so  paid  on  behalf  of  the  king  and 
those  bound  with  liim  and  by  these  presents  the  customers  shall  be 
di.scharged  of  so  much  in  their  account  at  the  exchequer  ;  as  the  king 
and  the  said  prelates  and  others  are  bound  to  the  said  earl  in  20,000/. 
which  the  king  has  received  of  him  in  name  of  a  prest,  to  be  paid  to 
the  said  earl  or  to  liis  deputies  at  the  Ascension  and  at  Midsummer 
next,  for  payment  whereof  the  king  and  some  of  them  have  given 
their  bond  in  20,000  marks,  and  for  pjiyment  of  other  10,000  marks 
the  king  and  some  of  liis  officers  are  likewise  bound  upon  the  subsidies 
and  customs  for  wool  laded  in  the  said  port,  to  wit  2h  marks  a  sack, 
as  is  contained  in  the  said  indentures  one  part  whereof  remains  with 
the  said  earl.  French. 
Et  erat  patents. 

Aug.  15.         John  Wilmyn  the  younger,   taken  and    imprisoned  in  the  king's 

Clarendon,     gaol  of  Lyndhurst  for  a  trespass  of  vert  and  venison  in  the  New  Forest, 

has  a  writ  addressed  to  John  de  Foxle  keeper  of  the  king's  forest  tliis 

side  Trent  or  to  his  representative  in  the  New  Forest,  directing  liim  to 

deliver  the  prisoner  to  bail. 

Aug.  20.  Richard   Vernoun   and    WilUam   Loueras,   taken   and   kept   under 

Westminster,  arrest  for  a  trespass  of  venison  in  Selewode  forest,  have  the  like  writ 
addressed  to  the  said  keej)er  or  to  liis  representative  in  Selewode 
forest. 

Aug.  10.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne  and 

Clarendon,  the  controller  thereof  in  the  said  port.  Order  to  receive  the  seal 
called  'coket '  appointed  for  the  customs  in  the  said  port,  which  the 
king  is  sending  under  seal  of  the  treasurer's  office,  and  to  keep  the  same 
as  usual,  namely  one  part  with  the  collectors  imder  the  controller's 
seal,  the  other  part  with  the  controller  under  the  collectors'  seal, 
dealing  therewith  further  as  they  kno\^  to  pertain  to  the  said  seal 
and  as  used  heretofore  to  be  done. 

The  like  to  the  collectors  of  customs  and  controllers  of  customs 
in  the  following  jjorts : 

Kyngeston  upon  Hull.         London.  Suthampton. 

St.  Botolph.  Quenesburgh.  Exeter. 


Great  Jernemuth. 


Cicestre. 


Bristol. 


July  26. 

Westminster. 


To  John  de  Olne}'  eseheator  in  Huntingdonshire  and  Bukingham- 
slure.  Order  to  take  the  fealty  of  Maud  late  the  wife  of  Reynold  de 
Grey  of  Wilton  upon  Wee  according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed, 
and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Touslond  co.  Huntingdon 
taken  into  the  kings  hand  by  the  said  Reynold's  death,  delivering 
to    her    any    issues    thereof    taken  ;     as    the    king    has    learned    by 


44   EDWARD    Hi. 


151 


1370,  Membrane  10 — cont. 

inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  by  grant  of  Henry  de  Grey 
his  father  the  said  Reynold  at  his  death  held  that  manor  jointly  with 
the  said  Maud,  and  that  the  same  is  held  by  knight  service  of  the  king 
•  as  of  the  honour  of  Huntyngdon  of  the  purparty  of  Robert  de  Brous 
which  is  in  the  king's  hand. 

To  Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Order  not  to  meddle 
further  with  the  manor  of  Hemmyngby  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  death  of  Reynokl  de  Grey  of  Wee,  delivering  to  Maud  late 
his  wife  any  issues  etc.  (as  above)  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  in(juisi- 
tion,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  at  his  dt-ath  the  said  Reynold  held 
the  said  manor  jointly  with  the  said  Maud,  and  that  the  same  is  held 
of  others  than  tlic  king. 

Aug.  14.  To  Robert  de  Twy ford  escheator  in  Derbyshire.     Order  to  take  of 

Clarendon.  Maud  who  was  wife  of  Reynold  de  Grey  of  Wilton  upon  Wee  tenant 
in  cliief  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence, 
and  in  presence  of  Henry  de  (Jrey  knight  son  and  heir  of  the  said 
Reynold,  if  being  warned  he  will  attend,  to  assign  her  dower  of  her 
said  husbands  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death,  sending 
the  assignment  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

William  Auncel  escheator  in   Herefordshire  and   the  march   of 

Wales  adjacent. 
John  atte  Welde  escheator  in  Essex  and  Hertfordshire. 
John  Eroille  escheator  in  Wiltesir. 

John    de    Ohiey    escheator    in    Bedfordshire,    Bukinghamshire, 
Cambridgesliire  and  Huntingdonshire. 


Membrane  9. 

Sept.  14.  To  Hugh  de  Courtney  earl  of  Devon.  Order  upon  his  allegiance,  as 
Havering,  he  cares  for  the  king  and  his  honour  and  the  safety  of  England,  and 
would  save  himself  harmless,  to  leave  over  aU  else  and  with  all  possible 
speed  to  cause  all  the  fencible  men  of  those  parts  to  be  arrayed  and 
kept  in  array,  so  that  they  shall  be  ready  to  resist  the  king's  enemies 
of  France  and  to  defeat  their  malice  if  they  shall  invade  those  parts  ;  as 
the  kinjT;  is  by  certain  his  friends  informed  of  a  surety  that  the  said 
enemies  have  now  made  ready  a  great  Heet  with  a  host  of  armed  men, 
purposing  within  a  nionth  from  tliis  date  to  invade  the  realm  in  those 
parts  and  to  overcome  and  destroy  the  king  and  his  people,  and  it  is 
the  king's  will  with  God's  aid  to  oppose  their  malice  and  to  provide 
for  the  safety  of  the  realm,  as  he  is  bound  to  do.  By  K. 

[Foedera.] 

To  the  abbot  of  Quarr,  Theobald  Gorges,  Tliomas  de  la  Ryvere  and 
Ral])h  Basset.  Like  order,  imder  pain  of  forfeiture,  to  array  all  the 
fencible  men  of  the  Isle  of  Wight ;  as  the  Idng  etc.  (as  above,  mutatis 
mutandis).  By  K. 

[Ibid.] 

To  the  mayor  and  baililis  of  Bristol,  Walter  de  Frompton,  Walter 
Derby,  Richard  Spicer  and  Robert  Chidder.  Order,  under  pain  of 
forfeiture,  leaving  over  all  else  and  ceasing  all  excuse,  to  be  in  person 
before  WiUiam  bishop  of  Winchester  the  chancellor  at  Clere  Episcopi 


152 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1;^70.  Membrane    9 — cont. 

with  all  possible  speed,  with  him  to  take  order  for  the  salvation  of 
the  realm,  and  furtlier  to  do  as  they  shall  be  then  directed  by  him  on 
the  king's  behalf  ;    as  the  king  etc.  (a.s  above). 

Sept.  7.  To  John  de  Bisshopeston  escheator  in  Middlesex.     Order  without 

Westminster,  delay  to  certify  in  chancery  under  his  seal  the  cause  wherefore  he  has 
taken  into  the  king's  liand  the  goods  and  chattels  of  Master  John  de 
Bukynghani  fanner  of  Hyndon  church,  and  the  fruits  and  proventions 
thereof,  sencUng  again  this  writ,  and  to  cause  the  same  goods  and 
chattels,  fruits  and  proventions  to  be  delivered  by  indenture  containing 
an  account  and  the  value  thereof  to  the  said  John,  who  has  taken 
u])on  him  in  chancery  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  same,  or  for  the 
value  or  price  thereof,  if  they  ought  to  pertain  to  the  king. 
Vacated  because  nothing  done  thereupon. 

Sept.  8.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  la  Rye.    Strict  order,  under 

Westminster,  pain  of  forfeiting  the  value  of  the  goods  hereinafter  mentioned,  to 
deliver  and  restore  to  Francis  Boydezone  and  John  Croeselin,  attorneys 
of  Clays  le  Baker,  Michael  le  Fevre,  Lamsyn  de  la  Clyte  and  Lamsin  de 
Boxtat' merchants,  being  burgesses  of  Ipre  and  subjects  of  the  count 
of  Flanders,  a  ship  called  '  la  Seinte  Marie '  of  Lescluse,  Lamsin  Crieke 
master,  and  all  goods  and  merchandise  therein,  according  to  the  agree- 
ment made  between  the  king  and  council  and  the  envoys  of  the  said 
count,  arresting  all  those  of  the  said  town  «ho  took  out  of  the  said 
ship  or  have  corn,  bacon  pigs,  oil,  cheese,  honey  or  other  goods  and 
will  not  restore  the  same,  and  imprisoning  them  until  they  shall  fullj' 
content  the  said  merchants  or  attorneys  of  their  said  goods  if  existing, 
or  otherwise  of  the  true  value  thereof,  so  behaving  in  the  matter  that 
by  their  default  no  second  complaint  shall  reach  the  king's  ears  ; 
as  on  behalf  of  the  said  count  it  is  shewn  the  king  that,  whereas  it 
was  agreed  with  the  said  env^oys,  sent  on  behalf  of  the  said  count 
and  the  commonalty  of  Flanders  to  treat  concerning  divers  trespasses 
and  grievances  inflicted  by  the  king's  people  upon  merchants  and 
other  men  of  Flanders  at  sea,  that  all  the  said  corn  and  other  goods 
in  the  said  ship,  lately  taken  at  sea  by  the  king's  people  and  brought  to 
the  said  town,  should  be  wholly  restored  and  dehvered  to  the  said 
merchants  together  with  the  sliip,  and  that  though  the  said  merchants 
have  many  times  sued  with  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  for  restitution  thereof 
accorchngly,  they  have  heretofore  taken  no  heed  to  make  restitution 
of  ship  or  goods  or  any  of  the  same  as  the  king  has  learned,  wherefore 
on  behalf  of  the  said  count  prayer  is  made  to  the  king  for  succour  and 
restitution ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will  that  the  said  agreement  be 
observed  in  all  things. 

Sept.  23.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Bristol,  Walter  de  Frorapton, 
Westminster.  Walter  Derby  and  Robert  Cliidder.  Order,  under  pain  of  forfeiture 
of  life  and  Umb  etc.,  leaving  over  all  else,  with  all  possible  speed  to 
cause  all  the  fencible  men  of  that  to\\n  and  the  suburbs  thereof  to 
be  arrayed  and  kept  in  array  so  as  to  be  ready  to  resist  the  king's 
enemies  of  France  and  defeat  their  malice  if  they  shall  invade  those 
parts  ;  as  by  certain  liis  friends  the  king  has  sure  information  that 
the  said  enemies  have  now  made  ready  a  great  fleet  with  a  host  of 
armed  men,  purposing  as  soon  as  may  be  to  invade  the  realm  in  those 
parts.  By  K. 

Et  erat  patens. 

[Foedera.] 


44  EDWARD  HI.  15:} 


1870.  Meinbrnne    9 — cont. 

Sept.  24.  To  the  sheriflF  of  Roteland.  Order  to  stay  lii.s  demand  made  by 
Westminster.  excluMjuer  .summons  u[)on  i\w  parson  of  Uppyngham  for  47.s.  of  the 
tax  granted  to  the  king  l)v  ahens  in  the  l!tth  year  of  lii.s  reign,  releasing 
any  distress  made  for  that  cause  ;  as  tliat  sum  is  being  demanded  at 
the  exchequer  of  tiie  said  church  as  the  king  has  learned,  and  by 
colour  of  estreats  of  the  excliecpier  lately  sent  to  the  sheriff,  the  sheriff 
is  unlawfully  distraining  and  troubling  the  said  parson  for  payment 
thereof  as  if  he  were  an  alien,  which  he  is  not,  although  the  said  sum 
is  due  from  the  cluuch  of  I'ltpyngham  in  the  Isle  of  \Viglit,  and  not  of 
Uppyngham  co.  Kot*^land,  as  of  the  prior  of  Uppyngham  who  is  parson 
of  Uppyngham  in  the  Isle  of  Wight,  u  herefore  th(>  parson  first  nsimcfl  has 
prayed  the  king  for  remedy  ;  and  the  king  is  fully  assured  that  the 
church  whereof  the  said  sum  is  due  is  in  the  Isle  of  Wight. 

To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exehe((uer.  Like  order  to 
stay  their  demand  for  47«.  made  upon  the  parson  of  Uppyngham  co. 
Roteland,  causing  the  same  to  be  levied  of  the  parson  of  Uppyngham 
in  the  Isle  of  Wight,  if  answer  has  not  yet  been  made  for  it  to 
the  king. 

Sept.  26.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Suthampton.  Order, 
Westminster,  upon  the  petition  of  Gailard  de  la  Launde  and  his  fellows,  merchants 
of  Bayonne,  if  assured  by  oath  of  the  said  Cailard  or  otherwise  that 
certain  cloths  of  theirs  were  l)ought  in  Flanders,  and  were  landed  on 
the  sea  coast  near  Portesmuth  for  salvage  thereof  for  fear  of  the  king's 
enemies  of  France  and  not  for  sale  as  it  is  said,  to  suffer  the  said 
merchants  to  lade  the  same  in  the  said  port  and  without  payment  of 
custom  to  take  them  to  Gascony  to  make  their  advantage  thereof  ; 
as  their  petition  shews  that  in  Flanders  they  laded  a  ship  called  'la  Seint 
Johan '  of  liayonne  with  cloths  and  other  merchandise  to  take  to  Gas- 
cony, and  that  although  on  the  \oyage  thither  the  said  ship  was  by  the 
said  enemies  pursued  to  the  coast  aforesaid  and  there  burned,  and  of 
the  cloths  therein  77  2  of  divers  sorts  were  landed  for  salvage  of  the  same, 
the  collectors  are  hindering  the  said  merchants  from  lading  those 
cloths  in  ships  and  taking  them  to  Gascony  without  payment  of  custom 
thereon,  praying  for  remedy. 

Oct.  6.  To  the  bailiffs  of  Kyngeston  upon  Thames  for  the  time  being.     Order 

Sheen.  of  the  farm  of  that  town  to  pay  to  Richard  de  Irlond  the  king's  surgeon 
the  arrears  for  Michaelnias  term  last  of  40  marks  a  year,  and  hence- 
forward to  pay  him  that  sum  every  jear  during  his  life  at  Easter  and 
IVIiehaelmas  by  even  portions,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  lately  of 
his  favour  and  for  the  said  surgeon's  good  service  the  king  by  letters 
patent  granted  him  that  sum  to  l)e  taken  at  the  exchequer  every  year 
during  his  life  or  until  the  king  should  take  other  order  for  his  estate ; 
and  after  on  15  May  last,  at  the  prayer  of  the  said  Richard  and  for 
that  he  gave  up  the  said  letters  in  chancery  to  be  cancelled,  the  king 
by  letters  patent  granted  him  to  take  the  same  sum  of  the  farm  of  the 
said  town  by  the  hands  of  the  bailiffs  every  year  during  his  life  or  until 
other  order  should  be  taken  for  his  estate. 

Sept.  11.         To    the   collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Suthampton.     Order 

Westminster,  to  view  certain  letters  of  cocket  of  the  prince  of  Aquitaine  and  Wales 

made  to  Richard  de  Westburj^  merchant,   and  if  assured  that    36f 

sacks  3  cloves  6/6.  of  wool  in  20  sarplers  and  1  pocket  are  of  the  growth 


154 


CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE  KOLL8. 


1,*)7().  Membrane    9 — cont. 

of  Wales,  were  cocketed  in  the  staple  of  Coneweye,  and  the  custom 
truly  paid,  to  sutTcr  the  said  Hiehard  to  latle  the  said  wool  in  ships 
in  the  port  of  Suthainpton  and  without  a  second  payment  to  take 
the  same  to  Calais  to  make  his  advantage  thereof  ;  as  by  plaint 
make  on  behalf  of  the  said  Kichard  it  is  shewn  the  king  that  in  the 
principality  of  North  Walew  he  laded  the  said  wool  of  the  growth 
thereof,  being  weighed  in  the  sarplers  and  pocket  aforesaid,  in  a  ship 
called  'la  Kalerine  of  Beaumaris,  Adam  le  Clerc  master,  at  the  said 
prince's  staple  of  Conewey,  and  paid  the  custom  thereupon  due  to 
Robert  de  Parys  chamberlain  of  the  said  prince  in  North  Wales  and 
collector  in  that  staphs  of  the  custom  as  well  upon  wool,  hides  and 
woolfells  as  upon  otlier  merchandise  etc.  whatsoever,  as  by  the  said 
letters  of  cocket  may  appear,  and  that  the  said  collectors  are  hindering 
him  from  lading  the  said  wool  in  another  ship  and  taking  it  to  Calais 
without  a  second  |)ayment  of  custom  as  if  it  were  not  already  customed, 
although  after  the  lading  thereof  the  said  ship  was  arrested  in  Wales 
for  the  king's  service  and  brought  to  8uthampton,  and  the  said  wool 
was  taken  out  of  the  ship  and  put  ashore  against  the  will  of  the  said 
Kichard.  Proviso  that  no  v\ool  of  the  growth  of  England  shall  by 
colour  of  these  presents  be  taken  over  thither  with  the  wool  above 
mentioned. 


Membrane   8. 

Oct.  7.  To  the  sheriff  of  York  for  the  time  being.     Writ  de  intendendo, 

Westminster,  ordering  liim  of  the  issues  of  his  bailiwick  to  pay  to  Robert  atte  Wode 
the  arrears  of  4d.  a  day  from  6  November  in  the  34th  year  of  the 
reign,  and  henceforward  to  pay  him  that  daily  sum,  taking  his 
acquittance  ;  as  on  6  November  aforesaid  of  his  favour,  for  the  said 
Robert's  good  service  and  for  that  he  \\  as  maimed  in  the  king's  service, 
the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  him  4rf.  a  day  for  life  to  be  taken 
by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff. 
Et  erat  yatens. 

Oct.  15.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons.     Order  to  stay  their  demand  made 

Westminster,  by  exchequer  summons  upon  Richard  del  Heton,  Hugh  del  Holt, 
Henry  de  Workeslegh,  Adam  de  Rauthorn  and  Jolm  de  Asshehurst 
for  100  marks,  thereof  discharging  them  at  the  exchequer  ;  as  they 
mainperned  before  the  justices  of  the  peace  in  Lancashire  under  a 
pain  of  100  marks  for  the  good  behaviour  of  Richard  de  Shakerleye 
toward  the  king  and  his  people,  and  to  have  his  body  upon  warning 
before  the  said  justices  within  six  days,  and  that  sum  is  now 
demanded  as  aforesaid  of  the  said  mainpernors  for  that  they  had 
him  not  before  the  justices  at  a  set  day  according  to  warning  received 
to  answer  to  the  king  concerning  divers  trespasses  by  him  committed  ; 
and  the  said  Richard  de  Heton,  Hugh  and  John,  William  son  of 
William  de  Radechf  and  Geoffrey  del  Holt  have  made  to  the  king 
in  chancery  a  recognisance  for  10/. 

Oct.  14.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Quenesburgh  for  the  time 

Westminster,  being.  Order,  of  the  issues  of  the  customs  in  the  said  [port],  to  pay 
to  Richard  de  Pembrugge,  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden 
of  the  Cinque  Ports,  so  much  as  pertains  to  him  from  21  June  last  of 
100  marks  a  year  to  him  granted  by  the  king,  and  henceforward  to 
pay  him  that  sum  every  year  at  lilichaelmas  and  Easter  by  even 


44  EDWARD  Ul.  165 


1370.  Membra7ie    8 — cont. 

portions  so  long  as  he  shjill  have  that  wardonship,  taking  liis  acquit- 
tance :  as  on  the  day  mentioned,  among  other  grants  made  him  for  ids 
maintenance  and  maintenance  of  his  chaf)lains,  servants  and  warders 
and  of  one  carpenter  dwelhng  in  the  said  caslle,  and  for  their  wages, 
the  king  l)y  letters  patent  ;j:rantcd  him  100  marks  a  year  to  be  taken 
as  aforesaid  in  the  said  port  or  elsewhere,  wheresoever  the  staple  of 
wool  in  Kent  shall  be  and  custom  be  taken. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Oct.  20.  To  the  keepers  or  farmers  of  the  king's    manor    of    Bray    for   the 

Weetiniiister.  time  being.  ()rder  of  tlu'  faini  or  issues  of  that  luanor  to  pay  to  John 
de  Drayton  the  arrears  of  43.s.  4c{.  a  year  since;  14  August  in  the 
43rd  year  of  the  reign,  and  henceforward  to  pay  him  that  sum  every 
year,  taking  his  accpiittance  ;  as  lately  t^ueen  Philippa  granted  him 
the  office  of  hay^vard  (messor)  and  warrener  of  the  said  manor  to  hold 
during  good  behaviour,  taking  thereof  such  liveries  and  profits  as  the 
last  holder  Koger  de  Yerdele  deceased  used  to  take  ;  and  after  on  the 
day  mentioned,  for  that  by  the  said  (jueen's  death  the  said  manor  came 
to  the  king's  hands  of  liis  favour  and  in  consideration  of  the  good 
service  of  the  said  John  to  the  (jueen  in  her  life  time,  in  recompense 
for  the  said  office,  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  him  the  said 
yearly  sum  to  be  taken  as  aforesaid  during  his  life  or  until  other 
order  should  be  taken  for  his  estate. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Oct.  20.  To  Ralph  Basset  of  Drayton  knight,  keeper  of  tlie  manor  of  Melton 

Westminster.  Moubray  which  was  of  John  de  Moubray  of  Axiholm  tenant  in  chief 
deceased,  or  to  the  farmers  there  for  the  time  being.  Order  to  pay 
to  John  de  Dysworth  the  arrears  of  405.  a  year,  and  hencefor\\  ard  to 
pay  him  that  sum  every  year  at  the  accustomed  terms,  taking  his 
acquittance  for  every  payment  ;  as  the  said  John  de  Moubray  lately 
in  his  life  time  granted  to  the  said  John  de  Dysworth  his  servant,  for 
the  report  w  hich  he  brought  him  of  the  delivery  of  Eleanor  his  eldest 
daughter,  405.  a  year  for  life  to  be  taken  of  his  said  manor  at  Mid- 
summer, with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  ;  and  on  8  April  in  the 
43rd  year  of  his  reign  the  king  confirmed  that  grant. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Oct.  15.  To  John  de  Foxelee  keeper  of  the  king's  forest  this  side  Trent,  or  to 

Westminster,  his  representative  in  8avernak  forest.  Order  to  deliver  to  John  son  of 
John  Malewayn  tenant  in  chief  the  forest  bailiwick  of  Suthgrove  within 
the  said  forest  of  Savernak  to  hold  and  keej)  it  as  his  ancestors  hereto- 
fore used  to  do,  if  the  same  is  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  his  nonage 
and  not  otherwise  ;  as  it  is  found  by  incfuisition,  taken  by  John  de 
Froille  escheator  in  ^\'iltesir,  that  John  Malewayn  at  his  death  held  in 
chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  a  messuage  and  80  acres  of  land  in  West- 
grafton  by  the  service  of  keeper  of  the  bailiwick  aforesaid  and  by  the  ser- 
vice of  IO5.  yearly  payable  by  the  hands  of  the  constable  of  Marlcbergh 
castle,  and  held  the  said  bailiw  ick  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  ;  and  on 
14  October  in  the  39th  year  of  the  reign  the  age  of  John  his  son  and 
heir  was  proved,  and  the  king  took  this  homage,  and  commanded  livery 
to  be  given  him  of  liis  said  fathers  lands. 

Oct.  28.  To    the    treasurer   and    the   barons   of    the  exchequer.      Order,   if 

Westminster,  assured  by  inquisition  or  otherwise  that  by  reason  of  the  destruction 

wrought  by  the  Scots  in  those  parts  Richard  de  Horsley  sheriff  of 


156 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    KOLUS. 


1370. 


Membrane    8 — cont. 

Northumberland  did  not  nor  might  not  levy  the  rents,  farms  and 
other  j)rofit«  of  okl  time  pertaining  to  that  eounty,  not  to  charge  him 
in  his  account  to  answer  to  the  king  for  any  not  levied  for  that  cause, 
thereof  discharging  him  as  other  sheriffs  there  used  heretofore  to  be 
discharged  ;  as  he  has  sliewn  the  king  that  the  lands  in  that  county 
are  so  wasted  by  frecjuent  inroads  of  the  Scots  lately  coming  in  warlike 
manner  that  he  may  not  levy  the  said  rents,  farms  and  profits,  but 
that  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  considering  not  this  are  purposing 
to  charge  him  in  his  account  with  all  of  them,  as  if  the  land  were  not 
wasted  and  he  might  have  levied  them  all. 


Oct.  28. 


To  John  de  Rokewode  escheator  in  Suffolk.     Order  to  cause  John 

Westminster,  son  and  heir  of  VV^alter  Clerbek  tenant  in  chief  to  have  seisin  of  his 

said  father's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  ;    as  the 

said  John  has  proved  his  age  before  tfie  escheator,  and  the  king  has 

taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [28531.] 

Oct.  10.  To  William  de  Chorlegh  escheator  in  Lancashire.     Order  to  take 

Westminster,  of  Alice  who  was  wife  of  Richard  de  Dynelay  tenant  in  chief  an  oath 
that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  in  presence 
of  Henry  son  and  heir  of  the  said  Richard,  if  being  warned  he  will  attend, 
to  assign  her  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  his  death,  sending  the  assignment  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 


Membrane  7. 

Oct.  18.  To  John  Froille  escheator  in  Oxfordshire.     Order  to  take  into  the 

Westminster,  king's  hand  the  manors  of  Escote  and  Lynham  together  vvith  the  issues 
thereof  taken  since  the  death  of  Adam  de  Shareshill,  and  to  deliver 
them  with  the  said  issues  to  Stephen  de  Valence  and  Joan  his  wife 
to  hold  during  her  life  ;  as  on  8  April  last  by  divers  letters 
patent  the  king  committed  to  William  Gamboun  the  keeping  of  a 
messuage  and  two  carucates  of  land  in  the  town  of  Ascote,  and 
to  William  Hervy  the  keeping  of  a  messuage  and  two  carucates 
of  land  in  the  town  of  Lynham,  which  are  of  the  heritage  of  John 
de  Fienes  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  were  in  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  the  said  Adam,  who  held  the  same  for  life  of  that 
heritage,  to  hold  with  the  issues  thereof  for  set  yearly  farms  until 
the  law  ful  age  of  John  de  Fienes  ;  and  after  it  was  found  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator  at  the  king's  command,  that  Joan  Fienles 
long  ago  held  the  said  manors  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  and  after 
espoused  the  said  Adam,  that  the  said  Adam  and  Joan  by  fine  levied 
in  the  king's  court  granted  the  said  manors  to  John  de  ShareshuU 
parson  of  Wyrardesbury  and  John  le  Moigne  and  to  their  heirs,  and 
they  granted  the  same  to  the  said  Adam  and  Joan  and  to  the  heirs 
of  the  said  Joan,  that  the  said  Adam  overlived  his  said  wife  and  by 
virtue  of  the  said  grant  held  the  said  manor  for  life  with  reversion  to 
William  Fienles,  son  and  heir  of  John  Fienles  son  and  heir  of  the  said 
Joan  Fienles,  that  William  Fienles  gave  the  said  reversion  to  Richard 
de  Chiderle  clerk  and  John  Cramphorn  and  to  their  heirs,  to  whom 
the  said  Adam  attorned  himself,  that  after  the  said  Richard,  who 
overlived  John  Cramphorn,  gave  the  said  reversion  to  the  said 
William  Fienles  (now  deceased)  and  Joan  his  Avife,  whom  Stephen  de 
Valence  has  now  taken  to  wife,  and  to  the  heirs  of  the  said  WUliam  de 
Fienles,  and  the  said  Adam  likewise  attorned  himself  to  them,  and 


44   EDWARD    III. 


157 


1370.  Membrane  7 — cont. 

that  the  said  manors  are  not  held  of  the  king  ;  and  thereupon  at  the 
suit  of  the  said  Stephen  and  of  Joan  now  liis  wife,  praying  for 
revocation  of  the  said  grants  to  WilHam  (Janiboun  and  WilHam  Hervy 
and  for  hvery  to  themselves  of  the  saitl  manoi*s  and  issues,  as  the  said 
messuage  and  hmd  in  l^^scote  are  the  said  manor  of  Escote  and  the 
said  messuage  and  land  in  liynham  are  the  said  manor  of  Lynham  and 
not  other  lands  nor  tenements,  the  king  by  ^\rit  ordered  the  sheriff 
to  give  notice  to  the  said  William  Gambon  and  William  Herv^y  to  be 
before  him  in  chancery  in  the  octaves  of  Michaelmas  last  to  shew  cause 
wherefore  the  said  grants  to  them  respectively  matle  ought  not  to 
be  revoked,  and  the  said  manors  and  issues  be  delivered  to  the  said 
Stephen  and  Joan  to  hold  during  her  life  according  to  the  grant  and 
attornment  aforesaid,  and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court 
should  determine  in  the  j)rcmises  ;  and  the  sheriff  returned  that  he 
gave  notice  to  William  Hervy  accordingly,  and  as  to  William 
Gamboun  he  caused  Robert  Pursle  bailiff  of  the  liberty  of  the  hundred 
of  Thame  to  have  the  return  of  that  writ,  who  answered  that  he 
likewise  gave  notice  as  the  writ  re(juired  ;  and  the  said  W^illiam  Hervy 
being  at  the  day  named  called  in  chancery  came  not,  and  William 
Gamboun  or  Micliael  Skillyng  the  king's  attorney  appearing  there  that 
day  said  nought  to  the  purpose  for  the  king  or  for  the  said  William 
wherefore  the  said  giants  ought  not  to  be  revoked  and  the  said  manors 
delivered  as  aforesaid,  wherefore  by  these  presents  the  king  has 
revoked  the  said  grants. 

Oct.  22.  To  John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire   and   Cambridge- 

Westiniiister.  shire.  Order  to  cause  Philip  la  \'ache  knight,  son  and  heir  of  Richard 
la  Vache  knight  tenant  in  chief,  to  have  seisin  of  his  said  father's 
lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  ;  as  the  said  Philip  has 
proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage 
and   fealty.  By   p.s.    [28525.] 

To  Richard  de  Wydeville  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.  Like 
order  ;  as  the  said  Philip  has  proved  his  age  before  John  de  Olneye 
escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.  By  p.s.  (the  same  writ). 


Nov.  10.  To  the  keeper  of  the  great  wardrobe  for  the  time  being.  Order 
Westminster,  to  pa}/  to  John  Brian  year  by  j-ear  40.s.  of  a  piece  of  ground  and  an 
inn  or  dwelling  house  tliereu])on  built  by  John  de  Beauchamp  of 
Warrewyk,  the  said  ground  and  inn  being  in  the  king's  hand  and  the 
said  John  Brian  being  parson  of  St.  Andrew  Baynardescastell  London, 
taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  at  the  suit  of  the  said  parson,  alleging 
that  the  said  John  de  Beauchamp  (now  deceased)  acquired  certain 
tenements  in  that  parish  wherein  great  number  of  the  parishioners 
dwelt,  pulled  them  down,  and  new  built  the  said  inn  for  his  dwelling, 
which  ground  and  inn  were  after  aecpiired  of  his  executors  by  the  king, 
and  that  he  the  said  parson  and  his  predecessors  parsons  of  the  said 
church  before  that  time  yearly  took  of  the  said  parishioners  tithes, 
oblations,  obventions  and  divers  other  profits  and  emoluments 
amounting  to  great  part  of  the  proventions  of  the  said  church,  whereof 
at  present  the  })arson  takes  nothing  for  that  the  premises  are  in  the 
king's  hand  and  not  inhabited  by  parishioners,  praying  that  in  lieu 
thereof  provision  be  made  him  of  some  remuneration,  on  1  October  in 
the  43rd  year  of  his  reign  of  his  favour  and  alms  the  king  by  letters 


158  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1870.  Memhrane    7 — cont. 

patent  granted  the  .said  parson  in  recompense  for  the  tithes  etc.  afore- 
.said  40v.  a  year  to  he  taken  of  the  said  ground  and  inn  by  the  hands 
of  tlie  said  keeper,  who  now  dwells  then^  upon  his  office,  so  long  as  he 
shall  there  ahide  hy  the  king's  appointment,  and  of  others  who  shall 
hereafter  in  name  of  the  king  or  his  heirs  have  or  occupy  the  keeping 
of  the  premi.ses  by  reason  of  the  said  oflice  or  otherwi.se,  so  long  as 
the  sauje  shall  remain  in  the  king's  hands  and  the  said  John  Brian 
shall  be  ))arson  of  the  said  ehuroh. 

hJl   nut   JKtleHS. 

Nov.  10.  To  John  duke  of  Laneastre  or  to  liis  representative,  his  sheriffs  and 
VVeatminster.  stewards  or  bailiffs  and  ministers  in  Wales  whatsoever.  Order  upon  their 
allegiance,  inid(^r  pain  of  forfeiture,  as  they  love  the  king  and  his 
honour  and  desire  the  salvation  of  the  realm  and  principality,  upon 
sight  of  these  presents  to  leave  over  all  else,  cease  every  excuse,  and 
cause  all  the  castles,  fortresses,  towns  and  other  places  of  the  said  duke 
within  the  ))rincipality  of  Wales  to  be  furnished  with  men  at  arms, 
armed  men  and  archers,  with  victuals  and  other  things  needful,  and  all 
the  men,  tenants  and  dwellers  within  the  duke's  lordship  of  whatsoever 
estate  or  conditirm  to  be  anayed  with  competent  arms  and  kept  in  array 
so  as  to  be  ready  at  all  times  to  resist  the  malice  of  the  king's  enemies 
of  France  if  any  shall  invade  those  parts,  arresting  and  keeping  under 
arrest  in  ]irison  under  safe  custody  while  danger  threatens  all  suspected 
persons  within  the  said  lordship,  being  adherents  of  the  said  enemies 
or  of  covin,  aid,  counsel  or  favour  toward  them,  so  that  no  manner  of 
hurt  or  peril  come  to  the  king,  his  realm  or  lieges  by  the  said  enemies 
or  their  adherents ;  as  the  king  has  particular  information  by  certain 
his  friends  that  the  said  enemies  and  other  their  adherents,  endeavouring 
to  destroy  the  realm  of  England  and  all  the  English  tongue,  have 
gathered  a  great  host  of  ships  \\itli  men  at  arms  and  armed  men, 
purpo.sing  before  Christmas  next  to  land  within  the  said  principality 
and  draw  over  the  same  to  their  dominion,  and  so  far  as  they  may 
utterly  to  overthrow  the  king  and  his  lieges  unless  speedily  and  manfully 
resisted  with  the  strong  hand  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will  by  every 
means  he  may  to  oppose  their  malice  as  he  ought  to  do.  By  K. 

[Fa(kra.] 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

EdA\ard  ]>rince  of  Aquitaine  and  Wales. 

Walter  de  Manny  lord  of  the  county  of  Meryonnyth. 

Reynold  de  Grey  lord  of  Ruthyn. 

John  de  Cherlton  lord  of  Powys. 

Richard  earl  of  Arundell. 

Edmund  earl  of  March. 

Thomas  earl  of  Warrewich. 

John  earl  of  Pembroch. 

Ralph  earl  of  Stafford. 

Edward  lord  le  Despenser. 

James  lord  of  Audele. 

Nicholas  son  of  James  lord  of  Audele. 

Guy  de  Briene. 

Humphrev  de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford. 

The  bishop  of  St.  David's. 

Roger  le  Strange. 

Robert    de    Ferrers. 

Nicholas  Burnel.  •  •     • 


44  EDWARD  III. 


159 


1370.  Membrane    7 — cont. 

Gilbert  Talbot. 
The  countess  of  March. 

Ingclrain    de    Couey   earl   of   Bedford,    guardian  of   the  lands  of 
Edmund  carl  of  March,  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship. 
[Ibid.] 

Membrane  6. 

Nov.  12.  To  William  Latymer  keeper  of  the  king's  forest  "beyond  Trent,  or 
Westminster,  to  his  representative  in  the  forest  of  Galtres.  Order,  if  Jolin  son  of 
John  (Jregory  of  (Jrayk,  William  del  Hank  of  ('rayk,  William  Eleccher 
of  Crayk,  Thon\as  Scot  of  Grayk  and  William  Day  of  Brandesby, 
taken  and  imprisoned  in  the  king's  prison  of  Davy  for  an  alleged 
trespass  of  venison  in  the  said  forest  for  which  they  are  inflicted,  shall 
find  every  of  th(>m  twelve  true  men  of  that  bailiwick  who  will  mainpern 
to  have  them  before  the  king's  justices  next  in  eyre  for  pleas  of  the 
forest  in  Yorkshire  to  stand  to  right  concerning  the  said  trespass,  to 
deliver  them  in  l)ail  to  the  said  mainpernors  if  replevisable  according 
to  the  assize  of  the  forest,  bringing  the  names  of  the  mainpernors  and 
this  writ  before  the  said  justices. 

Nov.  10.         To  Thomas   Chaumbernoun   escheator  in   Devon.     Order   to   take 

Westminster,  of  Maud  who  was  wife  of  Richard  de  Merton  tenant  in  chief  an  oath 

that  slie  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign  her 

dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal 

to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

To  William  Cheyny  escheator  in  Somerset.  Order  to  take  of  Cicely 
who  was  wife  of  Adam  Sabyn  of  Bekyndon  tenant  in  chief  an  oath 
that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign  her 
dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal 
to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

Nov.  18.  To  John  Coby  chaplain.  Licence  to  [defend]  the  business  of  an 
Westminster,  appeal  at  the  court  of  Rome  in  so  far  as  it  concerns  the  jurisdiction  of 
that  court  and  does  not  touch  the  king's  jurisdiction,  provided  that  he 
shall  attempt  nothing  else  there  which  ma}'  tend  to  the  hurt  of  the  crown 
and  the  king's  dignity,  or  to  impair  the  laws  and  customs  of  the  realm  : 
as  on  behalf  of  the  said  John  the  king  has  learned  that  by  an  appeal 
[laid]  at  the  court  of  Rome  by  William  de  Navesljy  canon  residentiary 
{residrnciarins  ei  stagitirius)  of  the  cliurch  of  London  and  prebendary 
of  Cadyngton  the  less  therein  against  the  said  John  and  against 
Richard  subexecutor  of  a  grace  done  to  him  by  the  see  of  Rome  con- 
cerning the  vicarage  of  Tyllyngham,  certain  business  specially 
belonging  it  is  said  to  the  jurisdiction  of  that  court  touching  alleged 
wrongs  committed  against  the  said  William  is  pending  w  ithout  decision, 
and  petition  is  made  to  the  king  for  licence  for  the  said  John  to  depart 
to  Rome  and  defend  the  same  ;  and  the  king  would  not  deny  the  said 
John  justice  in  that  behalf.  By  C. 

Nov,  18.  To  the  keeper  or  farmer  of  the  manor  of  Melton  Moubray  co. 
Westminster.  Leycester  for  the  tin\e  being.  Order  of  the  issues  of  that  manor  to 
pay  to  Joan  de'Canleye,  late  a  damsel  of  the  consort  of  John  de  Moubray 
late  lord  of  the  honour  of  Brembre,  the  arrears  of  a  yearl^'^  rent  of 
10  marks,  and  henceforward  to  paj^  her  that  rent  every  year,  taking 
her  acquittance  ;    as  the  said  John  by  his  writing  gave  her  the  aaid 


100  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1870.  Membrane    6 — cont. 

rent  issuing  from  his  said  manor  to  be  taken  at  Melton  Moubray  every 
year  during  her  life  at  Martinmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions  ;  and 
after  tlu'  king  l»y  ictlcrs  patent  contirmed  the  same,  notwitlistanding 
that  the  said  manor  is  hehl  in  chief,  and  amimg  other  hands  of  tiie 
saitl  John  is  now  come  to  the  king's  hands  by  his  death  and  by 
^  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  lieir. 

El   rral   jxtlcns. 

Nov.  26.  'Vo    Riehard   dc    Wych'viMe   eseheator   in    Rotehand.     Order  not   to 

Westniinster.  meddh'  fiirtiier  with  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Wodeheved  taken 
into  the  king's  liand  by  the  death  of  Roger  la  Warre  knight,  delivering 
to  ICleanor  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  incpiisition,  taken  by  the  e.scheator,  that  the  said  Roger 
at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  deme.sne 
as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  held  the  said  manor  and  advowson 
jointly  with  the  said  Eleanor  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  John  de 
(olne  i)arson  of  Etton  and  William  de  Sywardeby  to  them  and  the 
heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than 
the  king. 

To  Walter  de  Kelby  eseheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Like  order 
concerning  the  manor  of  Swynesheved  a  messuage,  6  acres  of  land  and 
4  acres  of  meadow  therein  excepted,  the  advowson  of  Swynesheved 
church  and  Garthorp  chapel,  and  the  manor  of  Bloxham  with  the 
advow.sons  of  Bloxhani  and  Brigeasterkm  churches  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  incpiisition  that  the  said  Roger  held  the  manor  and 
advowson  of  Swynesheved  (with  the  exception  aforesaid)  and  the 
advowscm  of  the  said  chapel  jointly  with  the  .said  Eleanor  by  fine 
levied  in  the  king's  court  of  the  grant  of  John  la  Warre  knight  and 
John  de  Wyke  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  Roger,  and  likewise  the  manor 
of  Bloxham  with  the  advowsons  aforesaid  of  the  gift  of  John  de  Colne 
parson  of  Etton  and  William  de  Sywardeby  to  them  and  the  heirs 
of  their  bodies,  and  tlmt  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

To  William  de  Qiorlegh  eseheator  in  Lancashire.  Like  order 
concerning  the  manor  of  Mamchestre  and  the  advow  sons  of  Mamehestre 
and  Assheton  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  t)v  inq»iisition  that  the  said 
Roger  held  the  same  jointly  with  the  said  Eleanor  of  the  gift  and 
feoffment  of  John  la  Warre  knight  and  John  de  Wyke  to  them  and 
the  heirs  of  Roger,  and  that  they  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

To  John  Rous  eseheator  in  Leycestershire.  Like  order  concerning 
tw  o  thirds  of  the  manor  of  Borstalle  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition  that  the  said  Roger  held  the  same  jointly  with  the  said 
Eleanor  of  John  duke  of  Lancastre  by  the  gift  of  John  de  Wyke  to 
them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies. 

To  Richard  de  Wydeville  eseheator  in  Norhamptonshire.  Order 
to  take  of  the  said  Eleanor  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without 
the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign  her  dower  of  the  lands  of  the  said 
Roger  her  husband  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death,  sending 
the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

To  William  Banastre  eseheator  in  Salop.  Order  to  assign  dower  to 
the  said  Eleanor ;  as  the  king  has  by  Richard  de  Wydeville  taken  of 
her  an  oath  etc.  {as  above). 


44  EDWARD   III. 


161 


1370. 


Membrane    6 — cont 


The  like  to  tlie  following  : 

John  Froille  escheator  in  Berkshire  and  Wiltesir. 

William  Cheyny  escheator  in  Somerset. 

William  de  Chorlegh  escheator  in  Lancashire. 

William   Auncel   escheator   in   Herefordsliirc   and   the   march   of 

Wales  adjacent. 
John  de  Bisshopeston  escheator  in  Sussex. 


Membrane  5. 

Nov.  8.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Bristol.     Order,  upon 

Westminster,  the  petition  of  Richard  Spicer  of  Bristol  merchant,  to  view  divers 
the  king's  letters  of  cocket  in  the  hands  of  John  Seymor  and  Walter 
Stodley  his  attorneys,  and  if  by  iiispection  thereof  assured  that  the 
said  John  and  Walter  laded  certain  hides  in  Ireland  and  there  paid 
the  custom  due  upon  the  same,  and  that  these  are  the  same  which 
were  customed  in  Ireland,  to  suffer  the  said  Richard,  John  and  Walter 
without  let  to  put  the  said  hides  upon  ships  and  without  a  second 
payment  of  custoni  to  take  them  to  the  town  of  Calais  to  make  their 
advantage  thereof,  any  ordinances  or  commands  to  the  contrary 
notw  ithstanding ;  as  the  said  petition  shews  that  in  Ireland  the  said 
John  and  Walter  laded  certain  ships  with  60  lasts  of  hides  to  be  taken 
to  Calais,  that  they  truly  paid  there  the  customs  due  for  the  same, 
tliat  the  said  ships  at  sea  were  by  certain  the  king's  enemies  driven  to 
the  said  port,  that  the  said  hides  are  yet  in  that  port,  and  that  the 
collectors  suffer  them  not  to  take  the  same  thence  to  any  parts  without 
a  second  payment  of  custom  for  that  they  were  there  put  on  shore, 
although  the  custom  was  paid  as  aforesaid,  as  by  the  said  letters  of 
cocket  may  appear.  By  C. 

Dec.  2.  To  John  de  Rokwode  escheator  in  Suffolk.     Order  not  to  meddle 

Westminster,  further  with  the  lands  of  William  de  Bockyng,  tenant  by  knight  service 
of  tlie  heir  of  Lionel  duke  of  Clarence  tenant  in  chief  a  minor  in  the 
king's  wardship,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  said  William's 
death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  as  well  of  John  Bockyng  his  son 
and  heir  as  of  the  said  duke's  heir,  and  yet  in  the  king's  hand ;  as 
the  said  John  de  Bockyng  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator, 
and  on  24  August  in  the  43rd  year  of  the  reign  was  proved  the  age 
of  Philippa  daughter  and  heir  of  the  said  duke,  whom  Edmund  de 
Mortuo  Mari  earl  of  March  has  taken  to  wife,  and  the  king  took  the  said 
earl's  fealty,  and  commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  the  lands 
held  by  the  said  duke  as  well  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  as  by  the  courtesy 
of  England  of  the  said  Philippa's  heritage  after  the  death  of  her  mother 
Elizabeth  late  his  \vife. 

Nov.  18.  To  Thomas  Chaumbernoun  escheator  in  Devon.  Order  not  to 
Westminster,  meddle  further  with  a  fifth  part  of  the  manor  of  Chepyngtoriton  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Richard  de  Merton,  delivering  to 
William  de  Bokebrigge  clerk  and  Matthew  de  Stawell  knight  any  ii^sues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  lias  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  the  said  Richard  at  his  death  held  the  same  jointly 
with  the  said  William  and  Matthew  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Thomas 
Chevne  made  with  the  king's  licence  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  the 
said  Richard,  and  that  the  same  is  held  in  chief  by  the  service  of  the 
fifth  part  of  three  knights'  fees. 

CR    11 


162  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1370.  Membrane    5 — conl. 

Nov.  6.  To  Thomas  de  Musgrave  eacheator  in  Westmorland.     Order  not  to 

Westminater.  meddle  further  with  two  thirds  of  a  certain  pasture  in  Banandesdale 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Roger  son  of  Gilbert  de 
Lancastre  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
the  said  Roger,  who  died  on  Thursday  before  Michaelmas  in  the 
26th  year  of  the  reign,  held  at  his  death  no  lands  in  that  county  in 
chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  two  thirds  of  the  fees 
of  William  de  Coucy  late  in  the  king's  hand  as  of  a  moiety  of  the 
manor  of  Kyrkeby  in  Kendale  by  the  service  of  3s.  yearly  payable  to 
the  said  William,  and  that  Joan  wife  of  William  Taillour  daughter 
of  the  said  Roger,  wlio  at  his  death  was  within  age,  is  his  next  heir 
and  now  of  full  age  ;  and  at  another  time  the  king  committed  to  John 
de  Coupland  deceased  and  Joan  his  wife  (yet  living)  for  the  life  of 
either  of  them  the  said  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Kyrkeby  in  Kendale, 
together  with  the  knights'  fees  thereto  pertaining. 

Nov.  20.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Essex  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  William  de  Pakelesham,  who  has  not  leisure  for  the  duties  of  that 
office. 

Nov.  10.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Salop  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  Roger  Preyers,  who  is  dead. 

Nov.  6.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Hereford  to  cause  two  coroners  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  John  Strete  and  Thomas  Burghope,  who  are  dead. 

Nov.  3.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Worcester  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  William  de  Ruyhale,  who  is  dead. 

Nov.  6.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Richard  Hurtland,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Oct.  12.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Westmorland  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Thomas  de  Red  mane,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Nov.  22.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Derbyshire  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Hugh  de  Muskham,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Oct.  15.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Oxford  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  Thomas  de  Fretewell,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Oct.  20.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Roteland  to  cause  a  verderer  of  the  king's 

Westminster,  forest  of  Roteland  to  be  elected  instead  of  William  Morewode  of 
Dryestoke,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Oct.  24.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Devon  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  William  Lyf,  who  is  sick  and  aged. 

Oct.  25.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Roteland  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Richard  Neville,  who  is  sick  and  aged. 

Membrane  4. 

Oct.  22.  To  William  Auncel  escheator  in  Herefordshire  and  the  march  of  Wales 

Westminster,  adjacent.     Order  to  deliver  to  Adam  de  Peshale  and  Elizabeth  his 

wife  a  third  -part  of  the  lordship  of  Talgarth  Englees  in  the  said  march 


44  EDWARD  III.  163 


1370.  Membrane    4 — cont. 

taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Joan  ap  Rees  wife  of  Philip 
ap  Rees,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Joan  at  her  death 
held  the  said  third  part  in  chief  by  knight  service  in  name  of  dower 
to  her  assigned  bj'^  the  king's  command  after  her  said  husband's  death 
with  reversion  to  the  said  IClizabeth,  being  daughter  and  heir  of  the 
said  Phihp  ;  and  the  king  has  at  another  time  taken  the  fealty  of  the 
said  Adam. 

Oct.  20.  To   Robert   de   Twyford   escheator  in   Derbyshire.     Order  not   to 

VVeatmineter.  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Shirland  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  Reynold  de  Grey  of  Wilton  upon  Wee,  delivering 
to  Maud  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Reynold  at  his 
death  held  the  said  manor  jointly  with  the  said  Maud  of  the  gift  and 
feoffment  of  Henry  Knot  and  John  Lecheworth  clerks,  and  that  the 
same  is  not  held  of  the  king  ;  and  although  the  said  Maud  has  at 
present  no  charter  or  other  evidence  of  that  gift  to  produce  in  chancery 
as  usual,  Henry  de  Grey  son  and  heir  of  the  said  Reynold,  being  of 
full  age.,  has  there  acknowledged  that  the  feoffment  was  made  in  the 
form  aforesaid. 

Nov.  5.  To  John  Froille  escheator  in  Wiltesir.     Order  not  to  meddle  further 

Wostminster.  with  the  manor  of  Saltharp  and  a  messuage  and  one  carucate  of  land 
in  Chilton  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Edmund  Everard 
knight,  delivering  to  Felicia  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
the  said  Edmund  at  his  death  held  the  said  manor  jointly  with  the 
said  Felicia  of  the  gift  of  Robert  Lydyard  chaplain  and  Nicholas 
de  London,  the  said  messuage  and  land  of  the  gift  of  Maud  daughter 
and  heir  of  John  de  Chilton  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  the  said  Edmund, 
and  that  the  premises  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

To  William  Cheyne  escheator  in  Somerset  and  Dorset.  Order  not 
to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage,  two  carucates  of  land,  30  acres  of 
meadow  and  40^.  of  rent  in  Steuelegh  co.  Somerset,  a  messuage  and 
one  carucate  of  land  in  Westafford  [co.  Dorset]  and  the  advowson 
of  Westafford,  and  with  one  carucate  of  land  at  Adesham  in  the  said 
county  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Edmund  Everard 
knight,  delivering  to  Felicia  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  divers  inquisitions,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  the  said  Edmund  at  his  death  held  the  premises  jointly  with  the 
said  Fehcia,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

Nov.  22.  To  John  Chaumon  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  observe 
West  minster,  and  keep  the  rivers  Humbre,  Ouse,  Trente,  Derwent,  Ayre,  Done, 
Querf,  Nidde,  Yore,  Swale  and  Tese  in  Yorkshire  and  Lincolnshire 
according  to  the  statute.  Order  to  suffer  Richard  de  Sutton  the  king's 
yeoman  by  himself  or  his  deputies  before  the  said  justices  to  demand 
all  fines  and  amercements  now  or  hereafter  before  them  made  or 
adjudged  for  whatsoever  trespasses  in  the  said  rivers  committed 
coi^trary  to  the  statute,  and  to  take  and  have  the  money  thereof 
arising  ;  as  on  10  ^May  in  the  43rd  year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  letters 
patent  granted  the  said  Richard  for  his  good  service  the  office  of  keeper 


164 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370. 


Membrane  4 — cont. 


of  the  said  rivers,  so  as  to  oversee  by  himself  and  his  deputies  that  no 
salmon  or  samlets  be  taken  in  them  or  any  of  them  in  time  of  fence, 
to  hold  the  said  office  for  his  life  with  the  fines  and  amercements 
aforesaid  as  Thomas  del  Bothe  deceased  held  it  in  his  life  time. 

Nov.  9.  To  William  de  W^yndesore  the  king's  lieutenant  in  Ireland.     Order 

Westminster,  to  suffer  Edmund  Lorence  to  have  and  })eaceably  possess  during  his 
life  the  manors  of  Baliogary,  Louthe,  Castelryng,  Asshe  and 
Donmawe  in  Ireland,  freely  disposing  thereof  according  to  the  grant 
of  John  Darcy  lord  of  Knayth  deceased  and  the  king's  confirmation 
thereof,  notwithstanding  that  by  the  death  of  Queen  Philippa  the 
wardship  of  the  said  John's  land  and  heir  has  come  to  the  king's 
hands,  and  to  release  any  distress  made  upon  the  said  Edmund  for 
that  cause,  provided  that  every  year  from  the  said  queen's  death  until 
the  lawful  age  of  the  said  John's  heir  answer  be  made  at  the  exchequer 
of  Ireland  for  the  farm  of  53/.  6s.  8d.  ;  as  the  said  John  demised  and 
to  farm  let  to  the  said  Edmund  for  life  all  his  lands,  lordships,  rents 
and  services  in  the  said  manors  rendering  yearly  521.  6s.  Sd.  at 
Christmas  and  Midsummer  by  even  portions,  and  after  the  said  queen, 
to  whom  the  king  lately  committed  the  said  wardship,  granted  to 
John  Wafir  for  a  set  farm  all  the  lands  of  the  said  John  Darcy  in 
Ireland  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  heir,  and  at  the  suit  of  the  said 
Edmund  granted  him  to  enjoy  the  premises  according  to  the  said 
writing  of  John  Darcy  notwithstanding  her  said  grant  to  John  Wafir 
which  she  thereby  revoked ;  and  on  23  November  in  the  36th  year 
of  his  reign  the  king  confirmed  the  said  demise. 

Oct.  20.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  not  to 

Westminster,  charge  Richard  de  Horsley  sheriff  of  Nortlmmberland  to  answer  for 
any  rents,  farms  and  profits  not  levied  etc.  {as  above,  p.  155). 

Oct.  25.  To  William  Cheyne  escheator  in  Somerset.     Order  to  remove  the 

Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  liberties  which  Margery 
prioress  of  Stodelegh  had  at  Craucombe,  delivering  to  her  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  certify 
in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  the  said  liberties  were  by  him  taken 
into  the  king's  hand,  and  he  certified  that  he  so  took  the  same  for  that 
he  found  by  inquisition,  before  him  taken  of  his  office,  that  by  grant  of 
Kjng  Henry  and  King  John  the  king's  forefathers  the  said  prioress 
held  the  assize  of  bread  and  ale,  the  chattels  of  felons  and  fugitives, 
'  w^ayf  '  and  '  stray,'  '  infangethef  '  and  '  outfangethef  '  and  other 
liberties  pertaining  to  the  crow^n  w-hich  are  not  confirmed  by  the 
king  ;   and  the  king  reckons  that  cause  insufficient. 

Oct.  20.  To  John  de  Foxle  keeper  of  the  king's  forest  this  side  Trent,  or  to 

Westminster,  his  representative  in  the  New  Forest.  Order,  if  by  inquisition  of 
true  men  dwelling  within  the  said  forest  and  without  or  otherwise 
assured  that  the  manor  of  Hale  co.  Suthampton  is  without  the 
bounds  of  the  forest,  to  stay  the  demand  made  upon  Robert  de 
Loundres  knight  to  enclose  the  same,  suffering  him  to  be  thereof 
quit,  and  releasing  any  distress  made  for  that  cause  ;  as  by  complaint 
of  the  said  Robert  the  king  has  learned  that,  though  his  said  manor 
is  without  the  bounds  of  the  said  forest,  the  keeper  is  distraining  him 
to  enclose  the  same  as  if  within  the  said  bounds,  wherefore  he  has  prayed 
the  king  for  remedy. 


44  EDWARD  III.  165 


1370.  Membrane  4 — cont. 

Oct.  30.  To  the  bailiffs  of  Lincoln.     Order  to  deliver  to  the  keeping  of  John 

Weetminster.  de  Holt  of  Norhamptonshiro  and  Walter  dc  Askeby  of  Lincolnshire, 
by  indenture  containing  the  price,  value  and  description  thereof,  the 
goods  and  chattels  of  William  Belle,  certifying  the  king  of  the  same, 
and  of  the  price,  value  and  description  thereof,  and  to  certify  in 
chancery  under  their  seals  if  there  be  any  reasonable  cause  wherefore 
they  ought  not  so  to  do,  sending  again  this  writ  ;  as  the  king  has  full 
information  that  the  said  William  being  mad  in  his  madness  at  Lincoln 
slew  John  Geppe  of  Axay  otherwise  called  John  Belle,  wherefore  the 
bailiffs  caused  his  goods  and  chattels  to  be  seized  as  forfeit  into  their 
hands  and  are  detaining  them  ;  and  madmen  committing  crimes 
in  their  madness  ought  not  by  law  to  undergo  the  extreme  penalty 
nor  to  forfeit  their  goods  or  chattels  ;  and  the  said  John  de  Holt  and 
Walter  appearing  in  person  in  chancery  have  mainpemed  when  the 
said  William  shall  recover  to  answer  to  the  king  or  any  fit  person 
concerning  the  goods  and  chattels  so  seized,  over  and  above  his 
reasonable  maintenance. 

•Nov.  1.  To  John    de    Bisshopeston    escheator  in  Kent.     Order  to  deliver 

Westminster,  to  the  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  freely  to  hold  in  name  of  wardship 
until  the  lawful  age  of  the  heir,  as  the  archbishop  and  his  predecessors 
have  been  used  to  have  such  wardships,  the  manor  of  Wadenhale 
taken  by  the  escheator  into  the  king's  hand  among  other  the  lands 
of  Henry  Haut  tenant  in  chief  by  his  death  it  is  said,  together  with 
the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Henry  at  his  death  held  the  said  manor 
of  the  archbishop  by  the  service  of  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee 
and  of  doing  suit  at  the  archbishops  palace  of  Canterbury  every 
three  weeks,  and  that  Nicholas  son  of  Edniund  de  Haut  knight 
{militis)  son  of  the  said  Henry  is  his  next  heir  and  within  age. 

Membrane  3. 
Oct.  28.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order,  if  assured 

Westminster,  that  a  pension  of  10  marks  a  year  is  due  to  the  prior  of  Ware  from 
the  vicars  of  Ware  for  the  time  being  as  parcel  of  Ware  priory,  to 
proceed  as  they  shall  see  fit  according  to  law  and  as  heretofore  used 
to  be  done  in  such  a  case  in  a  process  before  them  begun  at  the 
exchequer  concerning  the  arrears  of  the  said  pension,  any  command 
of  the  king  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding  ;  as  by  complaint  on 
behalf  of  brother  John  Gerard  prior  of  the  said  priory  it  is  shewn 
the  king  that  lately  for  200/.  yearly  payable  at  the  exchequer  he 
committed  to  the  said  prior  the  keeping  of  the  priory,  being  in  the 
king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  war  with  France,  and  of  all  lands 
and  possessions  thereto  belonging  so  long  as  the  same  should  remain 
in  the  king's  hand,  that  the  prior  and  his  predecessors  used  to  take 
the  said  pension  as  parcel  of  the  said  priory,  that  the  said  prior 
sued  as  aforesaid  for  arrears  thereof  against  Ralph  now  vicar  of  Ware 
in  aid  of  his  said  farm,  and  by  process  at  the  exchequer  the  said 
Ralph  was  summoned  to  answer  to  the  king  and  the  prior  concerning 
the  same,  but  that  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  have  long  deferred 
to  proceed  in  that  process  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  and  of  the 
prior  delaying  payment  of  his  said  farm. 

Oct.  22.  To  John  Froille  escheator  in  the  county  of  Suthampton.     Order 

Westminster,  to  take  of  Isabel  who  was  wife  of  John  Husce  tenant  in  chief  an  oath 


1()<5  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370.  Mtmhrane    3 — cont. 

that  slie  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign  Iier 
dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
his  death,  sending  the  assignment  to   be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

Oct.  14.  To  John  Olneye  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.     Order  to  remove 

WflBtminster.  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of 
Stokgoldyngton  and  the  issues  thereof  taken  by  him,  if  in  the  king's 
hand  for  the  cause  hereinafter  rehearsed,  saving  to  the  king  his  action 
against  John  de  Nowers  tenant  thereof  for  his  marriage  if  that  ought 
to  pertain  to  the  king  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator  of  his  office,  that  the  said  John,  who  holds  the  said  manor 
of  the  king  by  knight  service  as  of  the  honour  of  Peverell,  was  within 
age  when  a  third  part  thereof  descended  to  him  after  the  death  of  Grace 
de  Nowers  who  held  that  part  in  dower,  and  of  full  age  when  two 
thirds  thereof  descended  to  him  after  the  death  of  Agnes  his  mother, 
that  his  marriage  pertained  by  law  to  the  king,  and  that  he  married 
while  within  age  ;  and  now  the  said  John  has  petitioned  the  king  for 
remedy,  because  by  colour  of  the  said  inquisition  he  is  unlawfully 
put  out  of  the  said  manor  by  the  escheator  without  an  answer  or  any 
process  ;  and  in  the  statute  holden  {sic)  at  Westminster  in  the  28th 
year  of  the  reign  among  other  things  it  is  contained  that  no  man  shall 
be  put  out  of  his  freehold  without  an  answer. 

Not  sent  to  the  exchequer,  because  the  king  has  pardoned  the  said  John 
the  trespasses  above  mentioned,  and  has  granted  him  all  issues  taken  of 
the  premises. 

Oct.  18.  To  John  Froille  escheator  in  Wiltesir.     Order  to  assign  to  Beatrice 

WeetminBter.  who  was  wife  of  Reynold  Perot  tenant  in   chief,   of   whom    the   king 

has    taken    an   oath    that  she   will    not  marry  without   his  licence, 

dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his 

death,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

Oct.  18.  To  Richard  de  Pembrugge  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of 

Westminster,  the  Cinque  Ports.  Order  to  survey  the  defects  of  the  said  castle,  and  to 
cause  the  same  to  be  repaired  from  time  to  time  when  need  be  by  the 
view  and  testimony  of  the  abbot  of  St.  Radegund  and  the  master 
of  the  Maison  Dieu  Dovorre  or  one  of  them,  buying  and  purvejdng 
wood  for  making  bows  and  engines  [balistis),  barrels  for  scouring 
armour,  coffers  for  keeping  the  books,  vestments  and  ornaments 
of  the  castle  church,  and  other  things  needful ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
that  defects  are  many,  as  w^ell  in  the  houses,  walls,  turrets,  church, 
chapel,  belfry,  hall  and  buildings  of  the  said  castle,  the  glazed  windows 
and  doors  thereof,  as  in  the  books,  vestments,  ornaments  and  fittings 
of  the  said  church  and  chapel,  the  arms  and  armour,  bows,  arrows, 
engines,  artillery  (attiliis)  and  things  needful  purveyed  for  furnishing 
the  same. 

Nov.  20.  -  To  William  Latymer  keeper  of  the  king's  forest  of  Galtres  or  his 
Westminster,  representative.  Order,  if  Roger  '  the  Personesman  '  of  Brandesby 
and  Thomas  '  the  Personesman  '  of  Brandesby,  who  are  taken  and 
imprisoned  in  the  king's  prison  of  Davy  for  an  alleged  trespass  of 
vert  and  venison  in  the  said  forest  for  which  they  are  indicted,  shall 
find  either  of  them  twelve  free  men  of  that  bailiwick  who  will  mainpern 
to  have  them  before  the  justices  next  in  eyre  for  pleas  of  the 
forest  in  Yorkshire  when  they  shall  come  thither  to  stand  to  right 


44  EDWARD  III.  167 


1370.  ♦  Membrane    3 — cont. 

concerning  that  trespass,   to  deliver  the  said  Roger  and  Thomas  to 
bail  to  such   mainpernors   if   replevisable  according   to   the  assize  of 
the    forest,    bringing    before    the     said    justices    the    names    of    the 
mainpernors  and  this  writ. 
1371. 

Jan.  23.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order,  upon 

Westminater.  the  petition  of  the  prior  of  Rochester,  to  account  with  him,  allowing 
him  all  reasonable  expenses  which  they  shall  be  assured  by  his  oath 
and  by  testimony  of  John  Page  that  he  has  laid  out  upon  the  repair 
of  the  king's  manor  of  Gravesende,  and  further  doing  as  the  nature 
of  the  account  requires  ;  as  the  king  charged  the  said  prior  to  survey 
all  defects  of  the  said  manor  in  houses,  walls,  enclosure  and  buildings, 
and  by  view  and  testimony  of  the  said  John,  being  controller  of 
the  king's  works  there,  to  cause  the  same  to  be  repaired  at  the 
king's  cost. 

1370. 

Nov.  6.  To  John  de  Bisshopeston  escheator  in  Kent.      Order  to  deliver  to 

Westminster.  John  de  Hastynges,  son  and  heir  of  Lawrence  de  Hastynges  earl  of 
Pembroke,  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Godewyneston  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Juliana  late  wife  of  William  de  Clynton 
earl  of  Huntxaigdon,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since 
12  September  in  the  42nd  year  of  the  reign  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  William  at  his  death  held  no 
lands  in  that  county  in  chief  nor  in  service  in  his  demsene  as  of  fee, 
but  held  the  said  moiety  of  the  gift  of  the  said  Lawrence  during  the 
life  of  the  said  Juliana,  with  reversion  after  her  death  to  the  earl  of 
Pembroke  and  his  heirs,  and  that  the  same  is  held  of  the  king  in 
'  gavelkynde  '  by  fealty  ;  and  on  the  day  mentioned  the  age  of  the 
said  John  was  proved,  and  the  king  took  his  homage  and  fealty, 
commanding  livery  to  be  given  liim  of  all  his  said  father's  lands. 

Membrane  2. 
Dec.  16.  To  Hugh  Fastolf,   subadmiral  to  John  de  Neville  admiral  of  the 

Westminster,  king's  fleet  towards  the  north.  Order,  if  the  facts  are  as  hereinafter 
rehearsed,  to  arrest  as  forfeit  to  the  king  and  keep  under  arrest  until 
further  order  20  tuns  of  wine  sold  contrary  to  the  statute,  the  ship 
in  which  the  same  were,  and  all  wine  and  other  goods  and  chattels 
therein  ;  as  it  is  contained  in  divers  statutes  that  if  any  man  shall 
sell  a  tun  or  a  pipe  of  wine  before  it  be  gauged  by  the  king's  butler, 
ganger  or  other  his  ministers,  the  vendor  shall  forfeit  to  the  Icing 
that  wine  or  the  value  thereof  ;  and  now  the  king  has  learned  by 
credible  witness  that  a  ship  laded  with  wine  lately  touched  at  Kirkele 
Rode,  and  that  certain  forestallers  and  others  of  the  city  of  Norwich 
entered  the  same,  and  bought  and  forestalled  20  tuns  of  the  wine 
before  they  were  gauged  as  aforesaid,  in  contempt  of  the  king  and 
contrary  to  the  statute. 

Oct.  14.  To  John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.     Order  to  remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand  from  the  manor  of  Stokegoldyngton,  suffering  John 
de  Nowers  to  hold  the  same  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since 
it  was  taken  into  the  king's  hand  until  the  quinzaine  of  Easter 
next,  in  order  that  in  the  mean  time  search  may  be  made  of  the 
rolls  of  chancery  and  other  evidences  concerning  the  pronises  as 
well  for  the  king  as  for   the  said  Joan  {sic),  and  the  king  may  act 


168  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370.  Membrane    2 — cont. 

as  he  shall  see  fit  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  the  realm  ; 
as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  by  the  escheator  taken  of  his  office, 
that  John  de  Nowers,  who  holds  the  said  manor  of  the  king  by  knight 
service  as  of  the  honour  of  Peverell,  was  within  age  when  a  third 
part  thereof  descended  to  him  after  the  death  of  Grace  de  Nowers 
who  held  that  part  in  dower,  and  of  full  age  when  two  thirds  of 
the  same  descended  to  him  after  the  death  of  Agnes  his  mother, 
that  his  marriage  pertained  by  law  to  the  king,  and  that  he  married 
while  within  age,  and  by  virtue  of  this  inquisition  the  said  manor  is 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  ;  but  the  said  John  is  abiding  over  sea  on 
the  king's  service,  and  the  king  would  deal  generously  with  him. 

Oct.  28.  To  Thomas  de  Musgrave  escheator  in  Cumberland.     Order  to  take 

Westminster,  the  fealty  of  Richard  de  Louthre  according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule 
enclosed,  and  to  give  him  and  Joan  his  wife,  daughter  and  heir  of 
John  de  Eglesfeld  tenant  in  chief,  seisin  of  the  said  John's  lands  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  ;  as  the  said  Joan  has  proved  her  age 
before  the  escheator. 

Oct.  20.  To  John  de  Olneye  esclieator  in  Bukinghamshire.     Order  not  to 

Westminster,  meddle  further  with  two  carucates  of  land,  18  acres  of  meadow  and 
285.  of  rent  in  Morton  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of 
Reynold  de  Grey  of  Wilton  upon  Wee,  delivering  to  Maud  late  his  wife 
any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Rejmold  at  his  death  held  the 
premises  jointly  with  the  said  Maud  in  fee  tail  of  the  gift  of  Henry 
de  Grey  his  father,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than 
the  king. 

Nov.  6.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  stay 

Westminster,  the  demand  made  upon  Richard  de  Penbrugge  knight  by  the  collectors 
of  the  tenth  lately  granted  to  the  king  by  the  clergy  of  the  province 
of  Canterbury  for  payment  of  the  tenth  for  the  manors  of  Wadele 
and  W^ykyngesham  co.  Berks,  thereof  discharging  as  well  the  said 
Richard  as  the  said  collectors,  and  cancelling  the  taxation  made  of 
the  said  manors  with  the  clergy  ;  as  the  abbot  and  convent  of 
Stanlay  abbey  co.  Wiltesir,  which  is  of  the  foundation  of  former  kings 
it  is  said,  with  the  king's  licence  and  the  assent  of  the  whole  chapter 
have  by  charter  enfeoffed  the  said  Richard,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  their  manor  lately  called  Worda,  now  the  manors  of  Wadele  and 
Wykyngesham  aforesaid,  to  hold  with  the  knights'  fees,  advowsons 
etc.  thereto  belonging  of  the  king  by  the  service  of  fealty  for  all  service, 
and  on  4  July  in  the  37th  year  of  his  reign,  of  his  favour  to  the  said 
Richard,  the  king  by  letters  patent  confirmed  the  feoffment  and 
gift  so  made.  Milling  that  the  said  Richard,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
should  hold  the  premises  as  aforesaid  without  let  of  the  king  or  his 
heirs,  their  justices,  escheators,  sheriffs,  bailiffs  or  ministers  whatso- 
ever, any  right  or  title  of  the  king  therein  notwithstanding,  although 
the  said  abbej^  is  of  the  foundation  of  the  king's  forefathers  and  of  his 
patronage,  and  the  abbot  and  convent  held  the  premises  in  almoin  of 
their  grant ;  and  now  on  behalf  of  the  said  Richard  the  king  has  learned 
that  the  said  collectors  have  assessed  him  to  the  said  tenth  as  if  the 
premises  were  in  the  hands  of  the  said  abbot  and  convent  annexed 
to  their  spiritualities,  though  they  are  not,  and  purpose  to  levy  the 


44  EDWARD  HI.  100 


1370.  Membrane  2 — cont. 

same  of  him,  unlawfully  troubling  him  for  the  same,  wherefore  he  has 
prayed  for  remedy.  Proviso  that  the  premises  be  charged  among  laymen 
with  fifteenths  and  other  quotas  and  charges  granted  to  the  king  by 
the  commons  of  the  realm. 

Dec.  30.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Bristol.     Order,  upon 

Westminster,  the  petition  of  William  Canynges  of  Bristol,  to  view  letters  of  cocket 
which  he  has,  and  if  assured  that  certain  hides  put  on  shore  iti  that 
port  were  counted  and  cocketed  in  Ireland,  and  that  the  custom  there- 
upon due  was  truly  paid  to  the  collectors  there,  to  suffer  him  to  lade 
the  same  in  ships  in  the  said  port  and  without  a  second  payment  of 
custom  or  subsidy  to  take  them  by  himself  or  his  servants  without 
let  to  Calais  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  he  lately  bought  and  purveyed 
in  Ireland  60  lasts  of  hides  of  the  growth  of  Ireland,  and  there  put 
them  in  certain  little  ships  to  take  to  Calais  and  make  his  advantage 
thereof,  that  the  said  ships  were  by  a  storm  driven  to  the  port  of 
Bristol,  and  that  because  the  said  hides  were  put  ashore  the  collectors 
in  that  port  are  hindering  him  from  taking  them  to  Calais  without 
papng  custom  and  subsidy  anew  for  them  as  if  they  were  not  already 
cocketed  and  customed,  although  they  were  counted  and  cocketed  and 
the  custom  truly  paid  to  the  collectors  in  Ireland,  as  by  the  said  letters 
of  cocket  appears. 

1371. 

Jan.  18.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Bristol.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of 

Westminster.  Tankard  Playson  master  of  a  ship  called  '  la  Crislofre  '  of  Lescluse  owned 
by  merchants  of  Bruges  in  Flanders,  if  the  said  ship  with  the  seamen, 
the  freight,  goods  and  merchandise  therein  be  arrested  for  the  cause 
hereinafter  mentioned  and  for  none  other,  to  dearrest  the  same  and 
the  said  master,  suffering  him  to  take  the  same  to  Calais  if  the  owners 
\vill,  and  if  they  shall  pay  the  customs  and  subsidies  thereupon  due, 
and  in  case  they  will  not  to  unlade  the  said  goods  and  merchandise, 
suffering  the  said  master  and  seamen  without  let  to  pass  to  Flanders 
or  whither  they  will  with  the  ship  and  freight  ;  as  the  petition  shews 
that  at  Bourdeaux  the  master  laded  the  said  ship  with  certain  wines 
of  merchants  of  Bristol,  brought  them  to  the  port  of  Bristol  and  there 
unladed  them,  that  the  ship  is  now  laded  with  other  goods  and 
merchandise  of  merchants  of  Bristol  to  be  taken  to  Calais,  and  that  by 
colour  of  a  late  strife  upon  the  coast  of  Brittany  between  certain 
subjects  of  the  king  and  certain  merchants  of  Flanders,  wherein  the 
said  master  is  not  concerned  it  is  said,  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  have 
arrested  and  are  detaining  under  arrest  the  said  master  and  his  ship 
with  the  seamen  thereof,  the  freight  due  for  bringing  the  said  wines, 
and  the  said  goods  and  merchandise,  although  he  came  thither  in  hope 
of  peace  and  good  accord  and  not  otherwise,  praying  for  remedy. 

Membrane  1. 

Jan.  20.  To   William  de  Chorlegh  escheator  in  Lancashire.     Order  not  to 

Westminster,  meddle  further  with  a  messuage,  20  acres  of  land,  10  acres  of  meadow 
ui  a  place  called  Ravensholme  in  the  to\\Ti  of  Dounom,  and  the  moiety 
of  one  bovate  of  land  in  the  said  town  containing  4  acres  of  land,  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Thomas  de  Ravensholme,  delivering 
up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Thomas  at  his  death  held  po  lands 


170  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1871.  Membrane    1 — cont. 

in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said 
messuage,  land  and  meadow  of  Henry  de  Dyneley,  and  the  said  moiety 
of  John  duke  of  Lancastre  in  right  of  Blanche  late  his  wife  by  divers 
services. 

Jan.  20.  To  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  William  de  Wighfeld,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Jan.  10.  To  William  Streto  the  king's  butler,   or  to  his  representative  in 

Weatniiiister.  the  port  of  Suthampton.  Order  to  deliver  in  that  port  to  the  abbot 
and  convent  of  Beaulieu  Regis  for  this  year  one  tun  of  wine  of  the 
king's  right  prise  as  they  and  their  predecessors  u.sed  to  have,  taking 
their  acquittance,  according  to  the  charter  of  King  Henry  III  giving 
them  one  tun  of  wine  a  year  of  his  right  prise  in  that  port  between 
Christmas  and  the  Purification  towards  the  celebration  of  masses  in 
their  church. 

Jan.  16.  To  the  collectors  of  the  custom  of  wool,  hides  and  woolfells  in  the 

Westminster,  port  of  London  and  the  king's  controller  in  the  said  port.  Order  to 
suffer  all  merchants  and  others  willing  so  to  do  to  lade  in  that  port 
wool,  hides  and  woolfells  and  after  payment  of  the  custom  and 
subsidies  thereupon  due  to  take  them  to  the  town  of  Calais,  notwith- 
standing that  the  same  be  not  first  brought  to  the  staple  of  Westminster, 
the  wool  there  weighed  and  the  hides  and  fells  counted  ;  as  although 
order  was  lately  taken  that  wool,  hides  and  woolfells  should  not  be  taken 
out  of  the  realm  before  they  were  brought  to  the  king's  staples  and  the 
wool  there  weighed  and  the  hides  and  fells  counted,  that  all  wool  brought 
to  the  staples  of  Westminster  and  Winchester  should  there  be  truly 
weighed  by  the  standard,  that  every  sack  and  sarpler  so  weighed  should 
be  sealed  with  the  seals  of  the  mayor  and  constables  of  the  staple, 
or  of  the  mayor  and  one  of  them,  and  after  payment  of  the  customs 
of  the  staple  the  wool  so  sealed,  and  the  hides  and  woolfells,  should 
by  bill  sealed  by  the  said  mayor  and  constables  be  brought  from  the 
staple  of  Westminster  to  the  port  of  London,  and  from  the  staple  of 
Winchester  to  the  port  of  Suthampton,  and  there  in  presence  of  the 
customers  and  controller  there  appointed  should  be  weighed  a  second 
time,  nevertheless  the  merchants  of  the  realm  frequenting  those 
ports  with  their  merchandise  have  heretofore  borne  grievous  costs 
for  carrying  their  wools,  hides  and  woolfells  to  the  said  staples  and 
back  again  to  the  said  ports,  to  their  hurt  and  charge  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  their  complaint,  and  to  spare  them  expense  in  that  behalf 
it  is  the  king's  will  that  all  merchants  and  others  willing  so  to  do  shall 
bring  their  wool,  hides  and  woolfells  to  the  said  staples  or  to  the  said 
ports  as  they  please,  and  lawfully  without  let  take  the  same  over 
to  Calais  after  payment  of  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  said  ports, 
notwithstanding  that  they  be  not  first  weighed  or  counted  in  the 
said  staples,  saving  always  the  liberty  and  jurisdiction  of  the  staples 
in  all  other  matters.  By  K. 

To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Suthampton,  and  the 
king's  controller  in  the  said  port.  Like  order  to  suffer  all  merchants 
and  others  to  lade  in  that  port  and  take  over  to  Calais  wool,  hides 
and  woolfells,  notwithstanding  that  the  same  be  not  first  weighed  and 
counted  at  the  staple  of  Winchester.  By  K. 


44  EDWARD   ni.  171 


1871.  Membrane  1 — cont. 

Jan.  23.  To   the   justices   of   the   Bench.     Order   to   cea^se   altogether   from 

Westminster,  making  any  process  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  addressed  to  the 
sheriff  of  VViltesir,  and  returned  before  the  said  justices,  commanding 
him  to  warn  William  de  Walsham  clerk  and  Robert  de  Walsham 
canon  in  the  church  of  St.  Mary  Salisbury  at  Ludyngton  to  be  before 
the  said  justices  at  Westminster  in  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  to 
answer  concerning  an  alleged  contempt  and  further,  to  do  and  receive 
what  the  court  should  determine  in  that  behalf,  and  not  to  trouble 
them  contrary  to  the  king's  letters  patent  ;  as  lately  being  informed 
that  the  said  William  and  Robert  in  contempt  of  the  king,  to  his 
prejudice  and  the  disherison  of  the  crown,  and  contrary  to  the  ordinance 
in  such  a  case  made  by  the  king  and  the  commons  of  the  realm,  by 
process  without  the  realm  impugned  the  king's  right  in  regard  to 
the  prebend  of  Ludyngton  in  the  church  of  Shaftesbury  lately  void 
and  in  his  gift,  the  presentation  whereto  by  process  made  before 
the  said  justices  the  king  recovered  against  the  abbess  of  Shaftesbury 
and  Robert  Andreu,  by  the  writ  above  recited  the  king  commanded 
the  sheriff  to  wani  the  said  William  and  Robert  de  Walsham  as  afore- 
said ;  and  after  willing  of  his  favour  to  make  provision  for  the  security 
of  the  said  William,  being  prebendary  of  Ludyngton,  the  king  by  his 
said  letters  patent  confirmed  the  estate  and  possession  which  the  said 
William  has  in  that  prebend,  and  willed  that  he  should  not  in  time  to 
come  be  impeached,  troubled  or  aggrieved  by  the  king,  his  heirs  or 
their  ministers  w^hatsoever  touching  his  pos-session  thereof  by  reason 
of  any  right  or  title  to  the  king  pertaining.  By  C. 

Jan.  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Berkshire.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  John  Edmond,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

1370.  Membrane  2od. 

Feb.  4.  William  de  Ufford  earl  of  Suffolk  to  Roger  de  Boys  knight,  Ellis 

Westminster,  de  Byntre  parson  of  Dalham  and  Roger  de  Wolferston.  Recognisance 
for  5001.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Norffolk  and  Suffolk. 

Memorandum  that  the  chancellor  received  this  recognisance. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Feb.  4.  William  de  Ufford  earl  of  Suffolk,  Roger  de  Boys  knight,  Ellis  de 

Westminster.  B3mtre  parson  of  Dalham  and  Roger  de  Wolferston  to  Adam  de  Cokef eld 
parson  of  Thorndon,  Reynold  de  Eccles,  John  de  Pissale  parson  of 
Alderton  and  Robert  de  Asshefeld.      Joint   and  several  recognisance 
for  500/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Norffolk  and  Suffolk. 
Memorandum  {as  the  last). 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Feb.  5,  Richard  de  Upton  parson  of  Musgrave  to  William  de  Burstall  clerk 

Westminster,  and  John  de  Brigge  clerk.      Recognisance  for  4  marks,  to  be  levied 
etc.  of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Salop. 
Memorandum  {as  above). 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Feb.  6.  Richard  de  Merton  knight   to   Bartholomew  de   Naunton   knight 

Westminster,  and  Baldwin  de  Sane  to  Georgio.     Recognisance  for  1,000  marks,  to 
be  lev^ied  etc.  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Devon. 
Memorandum  {as  above). 
Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Bartholomew. 


172 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


Membrane  25d — cont. 


1370. 

Feb.  10.  William  Haulay  and  John  Haulay  U)  John  de  la  Pole  and  Henry 

Westminster,  de   Coton   clerk.     Recogni.sance   for   2,000/.    payable    by   instalments, 
to  be  levied  etc.  in  Lincolnshire. 
Memorandum   {as  above). 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


Feb.  10.  John  de  Meryet  knight  to  John  de  Mountagu  knight. 

Westminister,  for  1,000  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Somerset. 
Memorandum  {as  above). 


Recognisance 


Writing  of  Stephen  de  Wynslade,  giving  to  John  de  Munstreworth 
knight  and  to  his  assigns  during  his  life  a  j'carly  rent  of  20  marks  to 
be  taken  of  the  said  Stephen's  manor  of  Frome  co.  Somerset  at  the 
Annunciation  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  with  power  to  distrain 
for  arrears  ;  and  in  name  of  seisin  thereof  the  said  Stephen  has  given 
him  Id.  in  liand.  Dated  London,  Monday  after  St.  Scolastica 
44  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  before  the  chancellor  at  the 
house  of  the  friars  preachers  London,  11  February. 


Membrane  2Ad. 

Feb.  14.         John  Kayle,  son  and  heir  of  William  Kayle,  to  John  de  Romeseye. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  100/.,   to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  ids 
laiids  and  chattels  in  Somerset. 


Feb.  14.  Peter  White  clerk  of  Somerset  to  John  de  Romeseye. 

Westminster,  for  40/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Somerset. ' 


Recognisance 


Indenture  made  between  the  king  and  Thomas  de  Thornhaghe  of 
Lincoln,  being  a  lease  for  three  years  from  6  May  next  of  the  subsidy 
in  Lincolnshire  and  Roteland  upon  cloth  for  sale  lately  granted  to 
the  king  by  the  lords  and  commons  of  the  realm  in  order  to  have 
release  of  the  forfeiture  of  alnage  thereupon  laid  of  old  time  etc.  {as 
above,  p.  89),  rendering  to  the  king  22/.  a  year  at  Michaelmas  and 
Easter  by  even  portions,  and  taking  for  his  pains  the  third  part  of 
all  cloths  forfeited.  Dated  Westminster,  1  May  44  Edward  III. 
French.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

By  the  mainprise  of  Walter  de  Kelby  of  Lincoln. 
The  like  leases  to  the  following  : 

Yorkshire,  Northumberland,  Cumberland  and  Westmorland. 
Robert  de  Acastre  for  three  years  from  Michaelmas  last, 
rendering  53  marks  a  year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even 
portions,  and  taking  all  forfeitures.  Dated  Westminster, 
17  June.     French.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Surrey  and  Sussex.  John  Legge  for  three  years  from  Michaelmas 
last,  rendering  9/.  6s.  8c/.  a  year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by 
even  portions,  and  taking  all  forfeitures.  Dated  Westminster, 
15   October.     French.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Mainpernors,  William  de  Guldeford  and  Robert  de  Chesenhale, 
as  appears  by  bill  of  the  treasurer  which  is  upon  the  files  for 
this  year. 
Kent.  Henry  Colas  of  Guldeford  for  four  years  from  Michaelmas 
next,  rendering  40  marks  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even 
portions,  and  taking  all  forfeitures.  Dated  Westminster, 
15  August.     French.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


44  EDWARD  III.  173 


1370.  Membrane  23rf. 

Indenture  made  between  Peter  son  of  Peter  Fauelour  of  the  one 
part  and  John  Osekyn  executor  of  the  said  Peter  Fauelour  of  the 
other  part,  being  a  confirmation  to  the  said  Jolm  of  the  estate  which 
he  lias  in  the  manor  of  Xewton  co.  Suffolk  by  virtue  of  a  recognisance 
for  1,000^  made  on  12  May  33  Edward  III  in  the  staple  of  Westminster 
to  the  said  Peter  the  father  by  Gregory  Fauelour;  and  of  the  execution 
thereof  sued  by  the  said  John  and  by  Thomas  de  Langham  (since 
deceased)  his  coexecutor  after  the  said  Gregory's  death,  and  granting 
that  the  said  John,  his  executors  and  assigns,  shall  without  gainsaying, 
let  or  impeachment  of  the  said  Peter  the  son,  his  heirs  or  assigns, 
have  and  hold  the  said  manor  until  900/.  be  thereof  levied  with  their 
expenses  and  costs,  reciting  the  recognisance  aforesaid,  that  the  said 
Gregory  after  acquired  the  said  manor  in  fee  simple,  that  he  aliened 
the  same  to  certain  persons  in  fee  simple,  who  again  enfeoffed  the 
said  Gregory  thereof  to  him  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  with  remainder 
for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  said  Peter  the  son  and  the  heirs  of  his 
body,  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  Adam  Fraunceys  citizen 
of  London  and  his  heirs,  as  by  charters,  evidences  and  fines  levied  in 
the  king's  court  may  appear,  that  the  said  manor  being  in  seisin  of 
the  said  Peter  the  son  the  said  executors  sued  execution  as  aforesaid 
for  that  the  said  Gregory  in  his  life  time  never  contented  the  said 
Peter  the  father  or  his  executors  of  the  said  1,000/.,  that  the  said 
manor  as  parcel  of  the  said  Gregory's  lands  was  extended  at 
211.  13s\  \\d.  and  was  against  the  possession  of  Peter  tlie  son  delivered 
to  the  said  executors  to  hold  until  900/.  should  thereof  be  levied,  and 
that  the  said  Peter  the  son  is  assured  of  a  certainty  that  the  said 
recognisance  was  made  for  a  true  and  lawful  cause,  that  the  said  Gregory 
was  after  seised  of  the  premises  in  fee  simple,  and  that  the  said 
execution  was  lawfully  and  reasonably  sued.  Dated  London, 
1  April  44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  at  Westminster 
before  the  chancellor,  8  May. 

Indenture  made  between  John  Osekyn  executor  of  Peter  Fauelour 
of  the  one  part  and  Thomas  Byeston  vicar  of  Edelmeton  and  Simon 
Richild  chaplain  of  the  other  part,  being  a  lease  to  farm  of  the  manor 
of  Newton  co.  Suffolk  to  the  said  Thomas  and  Simon,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  so  long  as  the  same  ought  to  be  in  the  said  executor's  hands 
for  the  cause  hereinafter  mentioned,  rendering  and  paying  yearly 
to  the  lessor  in  me  church  of  St.  Helen  London  20  marks  at  Easter 
and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  with  power  to  the  lessor  to  distrain 
for  arrears,  and  iii  case  the  rent  be  four  months  in  arrear  to  enter 
again  and  hold  the  manor,  taking  without  gainsaying  into  whose 
hands  soever  the  premises  shall  come  all  goods  and  chattels  thereupon 
found  ;  as  on  12  May  33  Edward  III  in  the  staple  of  Westminster 
Gregory  Fauelour  made  to  the  said  Peter  a  recognisance  for  1,000/. 
according  to  the  statute,  and  in  his  life  time  paid  not  the  money  to 
the  said  Peter  or  to  his  executors,  wherefore  the  said  John  with 
Thomas  de  Langham  chaplain  his  coexecutor  (now  deceased)  by 
virtue  of  the  said  recognisance  sued  in  chancery  for  execution  of  the 
said  Gregory's  lands,  and  by  process  thereupon  had  the  said  manor  was 
extended  at  27/.  135.  lie?.,  and  was  delivered  to  the  said  executors  to 
hold  until  they  should  thereof  levy  900/.  with  their  expenses  and 
costs.     Dated  London,  4  April  44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  (as  the  last),  8  May. 


174 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370. 


Membrane  23d — cont. 


Indenture  between  John  Osekyn  executor  of  Peter  Fauelour  of  the 
one  part  and  Thomas  Byeston  vicar  of  Edelraeton  and  Simon  Rychild 
chaplain  of  the  other  part,  reciting  the  foregoing  lease  of  the  manor  of 
Newton  so  long  as  the  same  ought  to  remain  in  the  said  executor's 
hands  by  reason  of  an  execution  sued  by  virtue  of  a  reco;inisance  by 
statute  merchant  for  1,000/.  to  the  said  Peter  made  by  Gregory 
Fauelour  who  was  thereof  seised,  at  a  rent  of  20  marks  yearly  payable 
at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  in  the  church  of  St.  Helen  London,  and 
granting  that  if  the  lessees,  their  heirs  or  assigns,  shall  yearly  pay  the 
said  rent  as  aforesaid  for  22  years,  they,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  shall 
thereafter  be  no  longer  bound  to  pay  aught  for  the  premises  to  the  lessor, 
his  executors  or  assigns,  but  shall  be  discharged  of  every  such  payment, 
provided  that  if  the  said  lessees,  their  heirs  or  assigns,  make  default 
in  such  payment  or  in  any  part  thereof,  they  shall  be  bound  to  pay  the 
said  rent  during  the  whole  term  that  the  same  ought  to  remain  in  the 
lessor's  hands,  to  wit  until  900Z.  be  thereof  levied  with  the  expenses 
and  costs,  and  shall  be  therewith  charged  according  to  the  said  lease 
and  subject  to  the  penalties  as  well  of  distraint  as  of  reentry.  Dated 
London,  5  April  44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  {as  above),  8  May. 

Membrane  22d. 

Writing  of  Brian  Slooman  chaplain,  being  a  bond  to  Sir  John  de 
Tilneye  chaplain  in  G  marks  of  yearly  pension  payable  to  the  said 
John  during  the  life  of  the  said  Brian  in  the  church  of  St.  Paul  London 
at  Midsummer  and  Christmas  by  even  portions.  Witnesses  : 
Robert  de  Boxford  draper,  Robert  de  Oxenford  goldsmith,  Richard 
Broke  saddler,  Thomas  Kyngesbrigge.  Dated  London,  the  feast  of 
St.  Gregory  the  Pope  44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  before  the  chancellor,  22  March. 

Writing  of  Richard  son  of  William  Fyfhid,  being  a  general  release 
to  William  Fyfhid  his  brother  of  all  actions  real  and  personal. 
Witnesses  :  Sir  Andrew  Peverel  knight,  Roger  Dalyngregge,  John 
Weyvile,  William  Merlot  the  elder,  John  atte  Hyde,  Walter  Pakyn, 
John  Michel.     Dated  Shyremanbury,  4  July  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  before  the  chancellor,  22  March 
this  year. 

May  10.  John  de  Wandesford  of  Westwyk  to  John  Moubray  of  Kyrtlyngton 

Westminster,  knight.     Recognisance  for  500L,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Yorkshire. 

Memorandum  that  the  chancellor  received  this  recognisance. 


Membrane  2\d. 

Feb.  15.  Ralph  Ferrour  of  Notyngham  for  his  good  service  is  sent  to  the 

VVestniinster.  prior  of  Gysburgh,  to  have  such  maintenance  in  that  priory  as  John 

Wyther  late  one  of  the  king's  falconers  had  in  his  life  time  at  the 

king's  command.  By  p.s.  [28204.] 

Feb.  21.  To  the   sheriff   of  Norffolk.     Order,   upon  the  petition  of  Robert 

Westminster.  Cheyne,  Thomas  de  Seggeford,  John  le  Flemmyng,  Richard  Roberdes- 

man  Cheyne  and  John  Roberdesman  Cheyne,  to  stay  the  exigents 


44  EDWARD  III.  175 


1370.  Membrane  2ld — cont. 

against  them  and  the  taking  of  their  bodies  by  mainprise  of  Christian 
Elfer  of  Kent  and  Jolui  de  Caynesburgh  of  Yorkshire,  bringing  tliis 
writ  before  the  justices  of  assize  in  Norffolk  on  the  day  the  exigents 
are  returnable  ;  as  their  petition  shews  that  before  Roger  de  Meres 
and  John  de  Fencotes  justices  of  assize  in  that  county  the  prior  of 
Holy  Trinity  Norwich  recovered  against  them  seisin  of  the  manor  of 
Gnatyngton,  and  1  lOl.  were  to  him  adjudged  for  damages,  and  that  they 
are  without  their  knowledge  put  in  exigents  to  be  outlawed  at  his 
suit  for  that  they  came  not  before  the  said  justices  to  content  the  said 
prior  thereof,  though  they  have  contented  him  of  the  greater  part  of  the 
said  damages,  and  are  ready  to  content  him  of  the  residue,  and  to 
stand  to  right  in  all  things  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  the 
realm ;  and  the  said  Christian  and  John  de  Gaynesburgh  appearing  in 
person  in  chancery  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  110/.  to  have 
their  bodies  before  the  said  justices  on  the  day  above  mentioned. 

Feb,  21.  Robert  Cheyne  and  Thomas  de  Seggeford  of  Norffolk  to  the  king. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  200/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their 
lands  and  chattels  in  Norffolk. 

Memorandum  that  the  chancellor  received  this  recognisance. 
Memorandum  of  defeasance,  under  condition  that  the  said  Robert 
and  Thomas  at  a  set  day  yet  to  come  should  be  in  person  before  Roger 
de  Meres  and  John  de  Fencotes  justices  of  assize  in  Norffolk. 

Writing  of  Edmund  de  Combe,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to 
Sir  William  de  Molyns  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manors  of 
la  Lee  by  Malmcsbury  and  la  Gore  by  Lavj^nton  co.  Wiltesir,  and 
of  all  lands,  rents,  services  of  free  tenants  and  neifs  with  the  neifs 
and  all  that  goes  with  them  and  their  chattels,  the  homages,  liberties 
etc.  which  were  of  Ralph  de  Combe  in  demesne  and  in  lordship  of 
la  Lee,  Brenkeworth,  Brokencbrowe,  Newynton,  Thornhull,  la  Gore, 
Castelcombe,  Yatton  Keynes,  Cherlton  and  Milbourne  in  the  same 
county.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Hugh  de  Berwyk,  Sir  Roger  de  Puttenham 
knights,  Robert  de  Bolystrode,  Nicholas  de  Newenham,  John  de 
Brittewell.  Dated  Ditton  by  Colbroke,  the  feast  of  St.  Matthias 
44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  before  the  chancellor,  26  February. 

Indenture  made  between  William  de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester 
and  John  Clere  of  Crundale,  witnessing  a  gift  with  warranty  by  the 
said  bishop  to  the  said  John,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  land  called 
*  Dymarceslond  '  in  Crundale  in  exchange  for  a  field  of  land  in  the 
said  town  called  '  Rumbaldesfeld,'  rendering  to  the  said  bishop  and 
to  his  successors  35.  yearly  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  ; 
and  by  this  charter  indented  the  said  John  has  given  with  warranty 
to  the  said  bishop  and  his  successors  in  exchange  the  field  aforesaid 
lying  in  Crundale  between  the  high  way  leading  from  Depenhale  to 
the  corner  of  Farneham  park  towards  the  heath  and  land  called 
'  Moneyeslond,'  performing  all  rents  and  services  due  and  accustomed 
to  the  prior  and  convent  of  St.  Swythun  for  the  said  field,  and  thereof 
acquitting  the  said  bishop  and  his  successors  ;  and  the  said  John 
grants  to  the  said  bishop  and  to  his  successors  power  to  distrain  for 
arrears  of  the  said  rent  of  3s.  in  all  the  lands  called  '  Dymarceslond.' 


17() 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS, 


1370. 


March  8. 
Westminster. 


Menihrane  2\d — cont. 
Thomas  Byflete,  John  atte  Bergh,  Alexander  de  Iweshote, 


Adam    atte    Lee.     Dated    Farneham,     8    March 


Witnesses 

Ralph    atte    Rude, 

44  Edward  IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  in  the  chancery 
at  Farnham,  9  March. 


To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  son  of 
Bartholomew  Langerith  of  Waltham  Holy  Cross,  to  stay  the  exigents 
against  him  by  the  mainprise  of  Simon  VVaryn,  William  Wotton, 
Matthew  Langerith  and  Peter  Payn  of  Essex,  bringing  this  writ  before 
the  justices  at  Westminster  in  the  octaves  of  Trinity  ;  as  the  said 
John  has  shewn  the  king  that  the  king  lately  by  writ  ordered  the 
sheriffs  to  put  him  in  exigents  from  busting  to  busting  until  outlawed 
if  he  appeared  not,  and  if  he  appeared  to  take  him  and  keep  him  in 
safe  custody  so  as  to  have  his  body  before  the  said  justices  on  the  day 
before  mentioned  to  answer  to  Agnes  atte  More,  daughter  of  Richard 
atte  More  of  Waltham,  on  a  plea  of  debt  and  detenue  of  3G/.  ;  and  he 
has  now  prayed  the  king  to  stay  the  exigents  by  a  mainprise,  as  he 
is  ready  so  to  answer  and  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the 
said  Simon,  William,  Matthew  and  Peter  have  mainperned  under  a 
pain  of  3G/.  to  have  his  body  before  the  said  justices  on  that  day  to 
answer  as  aforesaid. 

Memorandum  that  the  said  mainprise  was  received  by  Th.  de 
Newenham  clerk. 


March  20.  To  John  Gemoun,  William  Tendryng,  Robert  Belknap  and  John 
Westminster.  Rokewode.  Order  for  particular  causes  to  stay  the  taking  of  inquisi- 
tions concerning  the  bridge  of  Bures  in  Suffolk  or  on  the  border  of 
Essex  and  Suffolk,  or  doing  of  aught  else  by  virtue  of  the  king's  late 
commission  ;  although  lately  learning  that  the  said  bridge,  whereby 
is  the  public  passage  of  men  of  the  parts  adjacent  and  elsewhere,  is  so 
broken  and  ruinous  that  for  lack  of  repair,  if  it  be  not  speedily  done, 
grievous  damage  and  peril  to  passengers  is  to  be  feared,  by  divers  letters 
patent  the  king  appointed  the  said  commissioners,  three  and  two  of 
them,  as  justices  to  make  inquisition  by  true  men  of  the  said  counties, 
within  liberties  and  without,  who  are  bound  to  repair  the  same  and 
who  used  so  to  do,  by  amercements  and  otherwise  to  distrain  and 
compel  all  found  to  be  so  bound  to  repair  the  said  bridge,  every  one 
according  to  the  rate  of  his  holding,  and  to  do  all  other  things  needful 
or  fitting  in  that  behalf,  sparing  no  man. 


Membrane  2Qd. 

Feb.  16.  To    the    sheriff    of   Essex.     Order,    upon    the    petition    of   Walter 

Westminster.  Edwyne,  to  stay  the  taking  of  his  body  until  three  weeks  after  Easter 
next,  and  if  taken  and  imprisoned  for  the  cause  hereinafter  mentioned 
and  for  none  other  to  set  him  free  by  the  mainprise  of  John  de  Southcotes 
and  John  Stephnes  of  Essex,  bringing  this  writ  on  the  aforesaid  day  ; 
as  his  petition  shews  that  Thomas  Houlot  and  Emma  his  wife  are 
impleading  the  said  Walter  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  concerning 
an  alleged  trespass,  and  that  by  a  writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the 
sheriff  to  take  the  said  Walter  so  as  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices 
on  the  day  above  mentioned  to  answer  them,  for  that  it  was  returned 
before  the  justices  that  he  was  not  found  and  had  nought  in  that 
bailiwick  whereby  he  might  be  distrained,  shewing  further  that  he  is 


44  EDWARD  III. 


/  / 


1370.  Membrane  20d — cont. 

ready  so  to  answer  and  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things*  ;  and  the  said 
John  de  Southcotcs  and  John  Stephnes  apijoaiing  in  poison  in  cliancery 
have  mainporned  under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have  his  body  before  the 
said  justices  on  that  day  to  answer  as  aforesaid. 

March  22.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk  and  Suffolk.  Order,  under  pain  of  forfeiture, 
Westminster,  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  that  all  and  singular  within  that 
bailiwick  having  victuals  for  sale  shall  bring  them  to  be  sold  at  market 
towns  within  twelve  leagues  of  the  town  of  Orowell,  so  that  they  l)e 
there  with  the  said  victuals  at  the  octaves  of  Easter  next  at  latest  and 
there  abide  so  long  as  the  king  shall  be  at  that  ])ort  upon  his  passage, 
and  that  no  uian  under  pain  of  forfeiture  shall  after  the  octaves 
aforesaid  openly  or  secretly  sell  victuals  to  any  save  within  twelve 
leagues  of  the  said  town,  and  order  to  arrest  any  found  so  doing  and 
the  victuals  they  are  selling  and  to  detain  them  until  further  order  ; 
as  the  king  has  appointed  his  navy  of  England  to  assemble  at  the  said 
port  so  as  to  be  there  on  1  May  next,  every  ship  with  a  double  equip- 
ment of  seamen,  to  sail  on  his  service  against  his  enemies  of  France 
and  so  far  as  may  be  with  God's  help  to  defeat  their  malice,  and  it  is 
his  set  purpose  to  be  there  in  person  before  that  day  with  his  whole 
army  to  sail  in  the  said  ships,  and  he  would  make  all  possible"  provision 
for  sustenance  of  the  nobles  and  others  who  will  come  thither  for  that 
cause.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Feeder  a.] 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  sheriff  of  Essex  and  Hertford. 

The  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge  and  Huntingdon. 

[Ibid.] 

March  23.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order,  for  particular  causes,  to  cause 
Westminster,  proclamation  to  be  made  that  all  and  singular  willing  to  bring  corn 
or  victuals  to  the  town  of  Calais  to  make  their  advantage  thereof 
shall  repair  to  chancery  whenever  they  will,  there  to  find  security 
that  they  will  take  the  same  to  that  town  and  no\\here  else,  and  by 
such  mainprise  the  king  will  gladly  grant  them  licence  and  warrant 
so  to  do.  By  C. 

April  8.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.    Order  to  suffer 

Westminster.  Walter  de  Haywode  sheriff  of  Wiltesir  to  have  the  respite  of  rendering 
account  of  his  office  for  the  last  year  which  the  king  has  given  him 
until  the  morrow  of  Michaelmas  next  ;  as  he  is  so  much  occupied 
about  certain  business  wherewith  he  is  specially  charged  by  the  king 
that  he  ina,y  not  come  to  the  exchequer  at  the  quinzaine  of  Easter 
next  as  was  by  them  arranged. 

To  the  same.  Order  this  time  of  the  king's  favour  to  receive  Roger 
Colrithe  and  William  Upton,  attorneys  appointed  in  chancery  by 
Peter  de  Brugge  late  sheriff  of  Suthampton,  or  one  of  them  if  both  may 
not  attend,  to  render  his  account  at  the  exchequer  in  his  room  for  the 
time  that  he  was  sheriff,  not  troubling  him  by  reason  of  his  absence 
at  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next ;  as  the  said  Peter  is  so  much  occupied 
etc.  {as  above). 

April  20.         To  the  mayor,  the  recorder,  aldermen  and  sheriffs  of  London.    Order, 
Westminster,  under  a  pain  of  100/.,  upon  sight  of  these  presents  straightway  to  cause 

CR    12 


178  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


LS70.  Membrane  20d—cont. 

proclamation  to  be  made  in  the  shambles  of  the  butchers  of  St.  Nicholas 
by  the  manse  of  the  friars  minors  and  elsewhere  in  the  city  of  London 
on  the  king's  behalf  forbidding  any  butcher  or  other  person  whatso- 
ever, under  pain  of  forfeiture  of  the  flesh  of  all  his  beasts  slaughtered 
in  the  said  shambles  and  of  imprisonment  at  the  king's  will,  hence- 
forward secretly  or  openly  to   take   offal  or  ordure  of  such  beasts  to 
the  river  Thames,  arresting  any  found  so  doing  after  the  proclamation, 
and  all  flesh  of  beasts  so  slaughtered  within  the  city  which  is  with  them 
in  their  houses  or  elsewhere,  causing  such  fiesh  to  be  sold  to  the  king's 
use,  and  the  bodies  of  such  offenders  to  be  imprisoned  in  the  king's 
prison  until  he  shall  take  other  order  concerning  their  punishment, 
and  certifying  from  time  to  time  in  chancery  their  names  and  the 
true  value  or  the  price  of  the  flesh  so  arrested  ;    as  lately  the  king 
learned   by   the   grievous   complaint   of   divers   prelates,    nobles   and 
others  of  the  people  of  that  city  having  houses  and  buildings  in  the 
streets,  lanes  and  places  therein  between  the  said  shambles  and  the 
said  river  near  Baynardescastel,   by  their  petition  presented  before 
the  king  and  council  in  the  parliament  last  holden  at  Westminster, 
that   by    the   slaughter   of   beasts   in    the   said    shambles,    by    taking 
offal  and  ordure  thereof  arising  by  the  said  streets,   lanes  and  places 
to    the  said  river  at  a  place  called  '  Bochersbrigge,'  where    the    same 
are  cast  into  the  river,  and  by  the  blood  of  the  said  beasts  flowing 
down  to  the  river  by  the  said  streets  and  lanes,  grievous  corruptions 
and  foulness  are  gendered  as  well  in  the  river  as  in  the  streets,  lanes  and 
places  aforesaid  in  neighbouring  parts  of   the  cit}',  so  that  because  of 
them  a  man  hardly  dare  dwell  in  his  house  ;  and  in  consideration  of  the 
hurt  and  damage  that  have  so  arisen  by  the  corruption,  the  grievous 
stench  and  the  loathsome  sight,  with  assent  of  the  whole  parliament 
the  king  thought  fit  that  the  said  bridge  should  before  St.   Peter's 
Chains  last  be  utterly  abated  and  removed,  willing  that  the  slaughter  of 
beasts  should  take  place  without  the  city  where  it  might  better  be  done 
and  be  less  noisome,  and  thereiipon  commanded  the  said  mayor  etc. 
before  the  said  feast  to  appoint  a  place  without  the  city  for  that 
purpose,   causing   the  said   bridge   meanwhile   to   be  so   abated   and 
removed  ;     and   now   the  king  is  informed  that,   though    by    virtue 
of  his  said  command  the  said  bridge  was  abated,  and  the  offal  and 
ordure  of  beasts  slaughtered  in  the  said  shambles  were  for  some  time 
taken  out  of  the  city,  certain  of  the  said  butchers  are  now  by  force  of 
arms  taking  and  daily  causing  such  offal  and  ordure  to  be  anew  taken 
to  the  river  by  the  said  streets  and  lanes,  in  contempt  of  the  king,  to 
the  grievous  hurt  of  the  prelates,  nobles  and  the  people  of  the  city 
having  houses  and  inns  there,  and  contrary  to  the  said  ordinance 
and  assent  of  parliament,  whereat  the  king  is  wroth  ;    and   it   is  his 
will  that  those  things  which  were  so  ordered  in  parliament  shall  be 
observed. 

[Bolls  of  Parliament,  App.  iv.  p.  460.] 

March  28.  To  the  sheriff  of  Westmorland.  Order  to  suffer  James  de  Pykeryngge 
Westminster,  knight,  who  is  abiding  in  Ireland  on  the  king's  service,  to  have  the 
respite  which  the  king  of  his  favour  has  given  him  until  Michaelmas 
next  for  payment  of  20/.,  at  which  lately  while  under  sheriff  of  that 
county  he  was  amei'ced  before  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the 
exchequer  for  that  he  came  not  before  them  as  usual  to  render  his 
account  of  the  issues  of  the  county.  By  C. 


44   EDWARD  III. 


179 


1370. 

April  7. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  20d — cont. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Surrey.  Order  to  suffer  John  Husee  to  have  the 
respite  which  the  king  of  his  favour  has  given  him  until  further  order 
for  taking  upon  him  the  order  of  knighthood,  relea.sing  any  distress 
made  upon  him  by  exchequer  summons  for  that  cause.  By  K. 


March  20. 

Westminster. 


March  22. 

Westminster. 


April  23. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  19d. 

Writing  of  Joiin  Husee,  brother  and  heir  of  Roger  Husee  knight, 
giving  to  William  de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  a  yearh*  rent  of  40  marks  to  be  taken  of  the  said  John's  manor 
of  Berton  Sacy  co.  Suthampton  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even 
portions,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears,  binding  himself  and  his 
heirs  to  payment  of  the  same  ;  and  for  greater  security  the  said  John 
has  put  the  said  bishop  in  seisin  thereof  by  payment  of  \d.,  granting 
that  he  will  attorn  tenant  to  any  the  assign  or  assigns  of  the  said  bishop 
to  whom  by  writing  he  shall  give  the  said  rent  according  to  an 
indenture  to  be  made  between  the  parties.  Dated  Berton  Sacy, 
15  February  44  Edward  III. 

Indenture  made  between  William  de  W3'keham  bishop  of  Winchester 
and  John  Husee,  brother  and  heir  of  Roger  Husee  knight,  being  a 
defeasance  of  the  rent  given  to  the  said  bishop  by  the  foregoing  writing 
so  long  as  the  said  John  or  his  heirs  by  themselves  or  their  attorneys 
shall  not  implead  or  thrust  out  the  said  bishop,  his  heirs  or  assigns 
or  any  future  tenant  thereof,  or  cause  them  to  be  put  out  of  the  manor 
and  advowson  of  Mourton  and  other  lands  which  were  of  the  said 
Jolm  in  Pudele  Turberville  co.  Dorset  or  of  parcel  thereof,  so  that 
the  same  be  not  paid  so  long  as  the  said  bishop,  his  heirs  or  assigns, 
shall  peaceably  hold  the  premises  without  impeachment,  with  proviso 
for  payment  of  the  said  rent  and  the  arrears  thereof  so  soon  as  the 
said  bishop  or  any  future  tenant  be  impleaded  or  put  out  as  aforesaid 
by  any  process  to  which  the  said  John  or  his  heirs  shall  appear. 
Dated  Berton  Sacy,  17  February  44  Edward  III. 

Memorandxun  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writing  and 
indenture  on  Monday  before  St.  Peter's  Chains  by  John  Husee  before 
William  de  Wichjiigham,  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus 
potestatem  which  is  on  the  files  for  this  year. 

Re\niold  parson  of  CouljTig  and  John  de  Idelegh  to  Robert  Turk 
citizen  of  London.  Recognisance  for  200/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Kent. 

Memorandum  that  this  recognisance  was  received  by  the  chancellor. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk  and  Suffolk.  Order  to  cause  proclamation 
to  be  made  that  all  having  victuals  for  sale  shall  bring  them  to  be 
sold  at  market  towns  within  twelve  leagues  of  Orewell  {as  above, 
p.  177).  By  K.  and  C. 

The  like  to  two  other  sheriffs  of  four  adjoining  counties. 

Vacated  because  above. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge.  Order  to  cause  proclamation  to 
be  made  that  all  and  singular  in  that  county  having  victuals  for  sale 
may  lawfully  bring  the  same  to  the  to%Mi  of  Cantebrigge  and  there 
sell  them  and  make  their  advantage  thereof,  as  they  used  to  do  before 


180 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370. 


Membrane  \9(l — cont. 


20  March  last,  the  king's  hvte  proclamation  and  command  notwith- 
standing ;  as  on  22  March  last  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  cause 
proclamation  to  bo  made  that  all  and  singular  in  his  bailiwick  having 
victuals  for  sale  should  draw  to  market  towns  within  twelve  U-agues 
of  the  town  of  Orewell,  where  the  king  has  appointed  the  navy  of 
England  to  assemble,  so  as  to  be  there  with  such  victuals  at  the  octaves 
of  Easter  next  at  latest,  and  to  abide  in  the  said  towns  so  long  as  the 
king  should  be  there  upon  his  passage,  and  that  no  man  under  pain 
of  forfeiture  should  after  the  said  octaves  sell  victuals  save  within 
twelve  leagues  of  Orewell  ;  but  by  the  loud  complaint  of  the  scholars 
of  the  university  of  Cantebrigge  the  king  has  learned  that  by  colour 
of  that  proclamation  and  command  all  the  victuals  of  the  town  of 
Cantebrigge  and  the  adjacent  country  are  altogether  withdrawn  thence, 
so  that  unless  a  speedy  remedy  be  applied  the  said  scholars  must 
depart  from  the  study  of  that  university  for  lack  of  victuals  ;  and  the 
king  would  cherish  the  study  thereof  to  the  utmost  of  his  power. 


Membrane  \M. 

April  14.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk.  Order  by  the  mainprise  of  John  de  Hales, 
Westminster.  William  de  Hales,  John  Bukmongere  and  Edward  Neve  of  Norffolk 
to  stay  the  exigents  against  William  Soutere  of  Hales  and  the  taking 
of  his  bod}'  until  the  da}'  when  a  writ  of  debt  at  the  suit  of  William 
Josse  of  Great  Jernemuth  '  coupere '  is  returnable  before  the  justices 
of  the  Bench,  bringing  before  them  this  writ  ;  as  the  said  plaintiff 
is  by  the  said  writ  impleading  the  said  defendant  for  a  debt  of  40s., 
and  for  that  he  came  not  before  the  said  justices  to  answer  concerning 
that  debt  the  said  defendant  is  without  his  knowledge  put  in  exigents 
to  be  outlawed,  wherefore  he  has  prayed  for  a  stay  as  he  is  ready  to 
stand  to  right  touching  the  premises  ;  and  the  said  John,  William, 
John  and  Edward,  appearing  personally  in  chancery,  have  mainperned 
under  a  pain  of  40Z.  to  have  the  defendant's  body  before  the  said 
justices  on  the  day  before  mentioned  to  answer  concerning  the  afore- 
said contempt  and  debt. 

April  23.  To  the  same.  Order  to  set  free  Thomas  de  Hales  chaplain  from 
Westminster,  the  king's  prison  of  Norwich  where  he  is  detained  at  the  suit  of  William 
de  Kerdeston  knight  by  the  mainprise  of  John  de  Hales  etc.  above 
named,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  said  justices  of  the  Bench  on 
the  day  mentioned  in  a  writ  de  judicio  ;  as  the  said  William  is 
impleading  the  said  Thomas  for  an  alleged  trespass,  and  for  that  the 
sheriff  returned  that  the  defendant  had  nought  within  that  bailiwick 
whereby  he  might  be  attached,  by  the  said  writ  the  king  ordered  the 
sheriff  to  take  his  body  so  as  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  at 
a  set  day  not  yet  past  to  answer  the  said  William,  by  virtue  of  which 
command  he  is  taken  and  committed  to  the  said  prison  ;  and  now 
he  has  prayed  the  king  to  be  released  as  he  is  ready  to  stand  to  right 
in  all  things  and  to  answer  as  aforesaid,  and  the  said  mainpernors 
etc.  have  mainperned  (as  in  the  last). 

April  27.         To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.     Order  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made 

Westminster,  that  all  in  that  county  having  victuals  for  sale  may  lawfully  bring  and 

carry  the  same  to  the  city  of  London  and  to  other  market  to\^'ns  where 

it  may  be  for  the  most  advantage  of  the  people  of  the  realm,  and 

may  there  sell  them  and  make  their  advantage  thereof,  the  king's 


44  KDWARD   III.  181 


1370.  Membrane  ISd — cont. 

former  proclamation  or  command  notu  ithstanding  ;  as  lately  the 
king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  that  all 
and  singular  in  his  bailiw  ick  having  victuals  for  sale  should  draw  there- 
with to  market  towns  lying  within  twelve  leagues  of  the  town  of  Orew  ell, 
where  the  king  appointed  his  navy  of  England  to  assemble,  there 
to  be  seen  (sic),  so  that  they  should  be  tliere  at  the  octaves  of  Easter 
last,  and  abide  in  those  towns  so  long  as  the  king 'should  be  there 
upon  his  passage,  and  that  no  man  under  pain  of  forfeiture  should 
after  the  octaves  aforesaid  sell  any  victuals  save  within  the  twelve 
leagues  aforesaid  ;  but  for  particular  causes  laid  before  the  king  and 
council  it  is  the  king's  will  that  all  of  that  county  having  victuals  for 
sale  may  bring  them  to  London  or  to  other  market  to\^■ns  as  before 
rehearsed. 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  sheriff  of  Essex  and  Hertford. 
'The  sheriff  of  Norffolk  and  Suffolk. 
The  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge  and  Huntingdon. 

April  24.         To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  suffer 

Thomas  de  la  Mare  of  Aldermanston  to  have  the  respite  which  the 

king  has  given  him  until  Easter  next  for  taking  upon  him  the  order 
of  knighthood,  releasing  any  distress  made  for  that  cause. 

May  14.  Hervey  de  Pakenham  and  Tliomas  de  Tyveteshale  to  Thomas  de 

Westminster.  Brayles.     Recognisance   for   100  marks,   to   be  levied,   in  default  of 
payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Norffolk. 

Memorandum  that  this  recognisance  was  received  by  the  chancellor. 

May  21.  William  de  Swanlond  to  John  Bernes  mercer  of  London.     Recogni- 

Westminster.  sance  for  200  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Hertfordshire  and  Middlesex. 
Memorandum  {as  above). 

May  20.  William  Gamboun  is  sent  to  tlie  abbot  of  Hayles  to  take  such 

Westminster,  maintenance  in  that  abbey  as  Henry  Fauconer  had  in  his  life  time. 

By  p.s.   [28344.] 

Writing  indented  of  William  de  Wykeham  bisliop  of  Winchester, 
reciting  a  writing  of  John  Husee,  brother  and  heir  of  Roger  Husee, 
whereby  he  granted  to  the  said  bishop,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  a  yearly 
rent  of  40  marks  to  be  taken  of  his  manor  of  Berton  Sacy,  in  seisin 
whereof  he  put  the  said  bishop  by  i)ayment  tliercof,  as  security  for 
having  and  holding  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Mourton  and  certain 
lands  in  Pudele  Turbcrville  co.  Dorset  late  of  the  said  John,  according 
to  an  indenture  bet\\een  the  parties  one  part  A\hereof  is  enrolled  in 
chancery,  containing  particulars  of  the  conditions  of  that  security, 
and  by  these  presents  giving  the  said  rent  to  Walter  de  Frempton 
and  Margaret  his  wife,  w  horn  the  said  bishop  by  charter  has  made  his 
assigns  of  the  manor,  advowson  and  lands  aforesaid,  and  to  the  heirs 
and  assigns  of  tlie  said  Margaret,  under  the  condition,  manner  and 
form  in  the  said  indenture  specified  and  limited  whereby  the  said 
bishop  had  the  same,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  in  the  said 
manor  of  Berton  Sacy.  Dated  Thursday  after  the  Invention  of 
Holy  Cross  44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  as  well  by  tlie  said  Walter  by 
himself  as  by  the  said  Walter  and  Margaret  jointly,  at  New  Sarum 


182  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370.  Memitrane  I8d — cont. 

24  May  before  John  Moubray,  by  virtue  of  divers  the  king's  writs  of 
dedimus  jxite-statem  whicli  are  upon  the  tiles  for  this  year. 

Membrane  lid. 

Charter  indented  of  Nicholas  de  Lovayne  knight,  giving  with 
warranty  to  William  bishop  of  Wyncestre,  Sir  John  de  Pekbrugge, 
John  Colepeper  and  Richard  Mafee,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  the  manors 
of  Ditton  Camois  and  Chevele  co.  Cantebrigge  and  Shonele  co.  Hertford, 
a  messuage,  one  virgate  and  half  an  acre  of  land  in  Napton  and 
Shathewell  co.  Warrewyk,  a  messuage  and  one  virgate  of  land  in 
Welford  co.  Norhampton,  the  manors  of  Mj'sterton  and  Pulteneye  co. 
Leycestre  and  Wytherefeld  co.  Suffolk,  and  all  other  lands,  rents, 
services,  mills,  ^\'oods,  meadows,  pastures,  fisheries,  lordships,  customs, 
knights'  fees,  advowsons  of  churches  and  chapels  etc.  which  the  said 
Nicholas  has  in  the  said  counties,  to  hold  during  his  life  rendering 
yearly  250  marks  at  Easter,  IMidsummer,  Michaelmas  and  Christmas 
by  even  portions,  power  being  reserved  to  him  to  distrain  for  arrears, 
and  to  enter  again  and  hold  the  premises  in  his  former  estate  with  the 
growing  com  and  all  other  goods  and  chattels  therein  if  the  said 
rent  be  one  quinzaine  in  arrear  ;  which  lease  is  made  upon  condition 
that  if  the  said  Nicholas  shall  cross  the  sea  and  die  before  his  return 
to  England,  the  said  lessees  of  the  moiety  of  the  profits  by  them  taken 
shall  pay  his  debts  and  make  provision  for  his  soul,  saving  to  them 
the  residue  of  such  profits,  and  saving  to  the  said  Nicholas  the  rent 
aforesaid,  and  if  he  shall  return  to  England  the  said  lessees  at  his  request 
shall  Avithout  delay  lease  again  all  their  estate  in  the  premises  to  the  lessor 
alone  or  jointly  with  others,  and  if  they  do  not  so,  or  make  default 
in  any  of  the  covenaiits  or  conditions  aforesaid,  it  shall  be  lawful  for 
him  the  said  Nicholas  to  enter  again  and  hold  the  premises  in  his 
former  estate  with  the  growing  corn  and  all  other  goods  and  chattels 
quick  and  dead.  Witnesses  :  Sir  William  de  Cobham,  Sir  Thomas 
Morant,  Sir  John  Burgh  knights,  Sir  William  Harewell,  Sir  Robert 
Lincoln  clerks,  Henrv  Englissh,  John  Sibille.  Dated  Penshurst, 
20  March  44  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  in  the  chancery 
at  Westminster,  28  May. 

Charter  indented  of  Nicholas  de  Lovayne  knight,  giving  w  ith  w  arranty 
to  William  bishop  of  Wyncestre,  Sir  John  de  Pekbrugge,  Sir  William 
Harewell  clerk  and  Richard  Mafee,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  the  manors 
of  Penshurst  and  Northpark  with  all  other  his  lands,  rents,  services, 
mills,  woods,  meadows,  pastures,  fisheries,  lordships,  customs,  knights' 
fees,  advow  sons  of  churches  and  chapels  etc.  in  the  toAvns  of  Penshurst, 
Tonbrugge,  Leghe,  Bitteberugh,  Speldhurst  and  Chydyngston  co. 
Kent,  to  hold  during  his  life  rendering  yearly  60/.  at  Easter,  IVIid- 
summer,  Michaelmas  and  Christmas  by  even  portions,  power  being 
reserved  to  the  lessor  to  distrain  for  arrears  and  to  enter  again  and 
hold  the  premises  in  his  former  estate  with  the  growing  com  etc.  if 
the  rent  be  one  quinzaine  in  arrear ;  w  hich  lease  is  made  upon 
condition  (as  in  the  last).  Witnesses:  Sir  William  de  Cobham,  Sir 
Thomas  Morant,  Sir  John  Burgh  knights,  John  Colepeper,  Sir  Robert 
de  Lincoln  clerk.  Dated  Penshurst,  25  March  44  Ed^vard  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  28  May. 


44    EDWARD    111.  183 


1370.  Metnbrane  lid — cont. 

Writing  of  Nicholas  dc  Lovaync  knijihi.  jiivinc;  to  Willi:iin  bi.shop  of 
Wynccstro,  8ir  John  dv  IN-khruggf,  Sir  William  HaiT\\(>ll  clerk  and 
Richard  Mafeo  all  his  growing  corn,  goods  and  chattels  upon  his  manors 
of  Pcnshurst  and  Northpark  and  his  lands  in  tin-  towns  of  P(>nshurst, 
Tonbruggc,  Leghc,  FJittcbciugh,  Spekliiurst  and  Chydyngston  co.  Kent. 
Datod  Pcnshurst,  25  March  44  Edward  111.     French. 

Writing  of  Nicholas  do  Lovaync  knight,  giving  to  William  bishop  of 
Wyncestre,  Sir  John  de  Pckbruggc,  John  Colepepcr  and  Richard 
Mafee  all  his  growing  corn,  goods  and  chattels  upon  his  manors  of 
Ditton  Camois,  Chcvele,  Shenlee,  Misterton,  Pulteneye  and  Wytheres- 
feld  cos.  Cantebrigge,  Hertford,  Leycester  and  Suffolk,  and  all  his 
chattels  in  the  towns  of  Napton,  Shathewell  and  Welford  cos. 
Warrewyk  and  Norhampton.  Dated  Penshurst,  20  March 
44  Edward  III.     French. 

Writing  of  Nicholas  de  Lovayne  knight,  giving  to  William  bishop 
of  Wyncestre,  Sir  John  de  Pekbrugge,  John  Colepeper  and  Richard 
Mafee  all  his  growing  corn,  goods  and  chattels  upon  his  manors  of 
Osprenge  and  Yenesfeld  co.  Kent.  Dated  Penshurst,  25  March 
44   Edward   III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  three  foregoing  writings, 
28  May. 

Membrane  IQd. 

Qiarter  indented  of  Nicholas  de  Lovayne  knight,  giving  with 
warranty  to  William  bishop  of  W'ynccstre,  Sir  John  de  Pekbrugge, 
John  Colepeper  and  Richard  Mafee  the  manors  of  Osprenge  and 
Yenesfeld  co.  Kent  and  all  the  lands,  rents,  services,  mills,  woods, 
meadows,  pastures,  fisheries,  lordships,  customs,  knights'  fees, 
advowsons  of  churches  and  chapels  etc.  thereto  belonging  to  hold 
during  his  life,  rendering  yearly  70/.  at  Easter,  Midsummer, 
Michaelmas  and  Christmas  by  even  portions,  power  being  reserved 
to  him  to  distrain  for  arrears,  and  to  enter  again  and  hold  the  premises 
in  his  former  estate  with  the  growing  corn,  goods' and  chattels  thereupon 
if  the  rent  be  one  quinzaine  in  arrear ;  which  lease  is  made  upon 
condition  {as  above,  last  page).  Witnesses  :  Sir  William  de  Cobham, 
Sir  Thomas  Morant,  Sir  John  Burgh  knights.  Sir  William  Harewell, 
Sir  Robert  Lincoln  clerks.  Dated  Penshurst,  25  March  44  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  28  May. 

Indenture  made  between  William  bishop  of  W5'ncestre,  Sir  John  de 
Pekbrugge,  John  Colepeper  and  Richard  Mafee  of  the  one  part  and 
Sir  Nicholas  de  Lova}Tie  knight  of  the  other  part,  being  a  lease  for 
seven  years  to  the  said  Nicholas,  his  heirs  and  executors,  of  the  manors 
of  Ditton  Camoys  and  Chevelee  co.  Cantebrigge  and  of  Shenelee 
CO.  Hertford,  a  messuage,  one  virgate  and  half  an  acre  of  land  in 
Napton  and  Shathewell  co.  Warrewyk,  a  messuage  and  one  virgate 
of  land  in  Welford  co.  Norhampton,  the  manors  of  Misterton  and 
Pulteneye  co.  Leycestre  and  of  Wj-theresfeld  co.  Suffolk,  and  all  other 
lands,  rents,  services,  mills,  woods,  meadows,  pastures,  fisheries, 
lordships,  customs,  knights'  fees,  advowsons  of  churches  and  chapels 
etc.  in  the  said  counties  comprised  in  a  charter  indented  by  the  said 
Nicholas  heretofore  made  to  the  said  lessors,  rendering  to  the  lessors 


184  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370.  Membrane  16rf — cont. 

120/.  a  year  at  Easter  and  Michaelina.s  by  even  portions,  power  being 
reserved  to  them  to  distrain  for  arrears,  and  to  enter  again  and  hold 
tlie  premises  in  their  former  estate    if  the  rent  be  one  quinzaine  in 
arrear.     Dated  Peneshurst,  9  April  44  Edward  111.     French. 
Mcinorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  28  May. 

Indenture  made  between  William  bishop  of  Wyncestre,  Sir  John 
de  Pekbrugge,  Sir  William  Harewell  clerk  and  Richard  Mafee  of  the 
one  part  and  Sir  JS'icholas  de  Lovayne  knight  of  the  other  part,  being 
a  lease  for  seven  years  to  the  said  Nicholas,  his  heirs  and  executors, 
of  the  manors  of  Penshurst  and  Northpark  and  all  other  lands,  rents, 
services,  mills,  woods,  meadows,  pastures,  fisheries,  lordships,  customs, 
knights'  fees,  advowsons  etc.  in  the  towns  of  Penshurst,  Tonbrugge, 
Leghe,  Bitteberugh,  Speldhurst  and  Chydyngston  co.  Kent  comprised 
in  a  charter  indented  by  the  said  Nicholas  heretofore  made  to  the 
said  lessors,  rendering  to  the  lessors  100  marks  a  year  at  Easter  and 
Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  power  being  reserved  to  them  to  distrain 
for  arrears,  and  to  enter  again  and  hold  the  premises  in  their  former 
estate   if   the   rent   be   one   cpiinzaine   in    arrear.     Dated    Penshurst 

13  April  44  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  28  May. 

Indenture  made  between  William  bishop  of  Wyncestre,  Sir  John 
de  Pekbrugge,  John  Colpeper  and  Richard  Mafee  of  the  one  part  and 
Sir  A'icholas  de  Lovaj-^ne  knight  of  the  other  part,  being  a  lease  for 
seven  years  to  the  said  Nicholas,  his  heirs  and  executors,  of  the  manors 
of  Osprenge  and  Yenesfeld  co.  Kent  and  all  lands,  rents,  services, 
mills,  w  oods,  meadow  s,  pastures,  fisheries,  lordships,  customs,  knights' 
fees,  advowsons  of  churches  and  chapels  etc.  in  that  county  comprised 
in  a  charter  indented  by  the  said  Nicholas  heretofore  made  to  the 
said  lessors,  rendering  to  the  lessors  57/.  a  year  at  Easter  and 
Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  power  being  reserved  to  them  to 
distrain  for  arrears,  and  to  enter  again  and  hold  the  premises  in  their 
former  estate  if  the  rent  be  one  quinzaine  in  arrear.     Dated  Penshurst, 

14  April  44  Edward  III.     French. 

Menwrandnm  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  28  May. 

Membrane  \5d. 

Writing  of  Nicholas  de  Lovayne  knight,  being  a  letter  of  attorney 
to  William  de  Tarent  clerk  and  John  Sybyle  to  deliver  to  William 
bishop  of  Wyncestre,  Sir  John  de  Pekbriggc  (Pekkebrygge)  knight, 
John  Colepcper  and  Richard  Mafee  seisin  of  the  manors  of  Osprynge 
and  Yenesfeld  co.  Kent,  according  to  his  charters  indented  to  them 
made.     Dated  Penshurst,  25  March  44  EdA\ard  III.     French. 

Writing  of  Nicholas  de  Lovayne  kniglit,  being  a  letter  of  attorney 
to  William  dc  Tarent  clerk  and  John  »Sibille  to  deliver  to  William 
bishop  of  Wyncestre,  Sir  John  de  Pekbrugge,  John  Colepeper  and 
Richard  Mafee  seisin  of  the  manors  of  Ditton  Camois,  Chevele,  Shenlee, 
Misterton,  Pulteneye  and  WVtheresfeld  cos.  Cantebrigge,  Hertford, 
Leycestre  and  Suffolk,  and  of  all  his  lands  in  the  towns  of  Napton, 
Shathewell  and  Welford  cos.  W^arrewyk  and  Norhampton,  according 
to  his  charters  indented  to  them  made.  Dated  Penshurst,  20  March 
44  Edward  III.     French. 


4-i    EDWARD    ill.  185 


1370.  Membrane  \5d — cont. 

Writing  of  Nicholas  de  Lovayne  knight,  being  a  k-tter  of  attorney 
to  ^^'illianl  de  Tarent  clerk  and  John  Sibille  to  deliver  to  William 
bishop  of  Wyncestre,  Sir  John  de  Pekbrugge,  Sir  \\'illiam  Harewell 
and  Richard  Mafee  seisin  of  the  manors  of  Penshurst  and  Xorthpark 
and  all  his  lands  in  the  towns  of  Penshurst,  Tonbrugge,  Leghe, 
Bitteberugh  and  Chydyngston  co.  Kent,  according  to  his  charters 
indented  to  them  made.  Dated  Penshurst,  25  March  44  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  letters  of  attorney, 
28  May. 

Writing  of  William  bishop  of  Wyncestre,  John  de  Pekbrugge  knight, 
John  Colepeper  and  Richard  Mafee,  being  a  letter  of  attorney  to 
Nicholas  Pot^'n  to  receive  of  Sir  NichoUis  de  Lovayne  knight  seisin 
of  the  manors  of  Ditton  Camoys,  Chevele,  Shenlee,  Misterton, 
Pulteneye  and  Wytheresfeld  cos.  Cantebrigge,  Hertford,  Lcycestre 
and  Suffolk  and  of  other  lands  in  the  towns  of  Napton,  Shathcwell 
and  Welford  cos.  Warrewyk  and  Norhampton  comprised  in  charters 
indented  to  them  made  bv  the  said  Sir  Nicholas.  Dated  Penshurst, 
20  March  44  Edw  ard  III.  ^  French. 

Writing  of  William  bishop  of  Wynchestre,  John  de  Pekbrygge  knight, 
John  Colepeper  and  Richard  Mafee,  being  a  letter  of  attorney  to 
Nicholas  Potyn  to  receive  of  Sir 'Nicholas  de  Lovayne  knight  seisin 
of  the  manors  of  Osprynge  and  Yenesfeld  co.  Kent  according  to  charters 
indented  to  them  made  bv  the  said  Sir  Nicholas.  Dated  Penshurst, 
25  March  44  Ed\\ard  III."    French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings,  28  May. 

W^riting  of  William  bishop  of  Wyncestie,  John  de  Pekbrugge  knight, 
William  Harew  ell  clerk  and  Richard  Mafee,  being  a  letter  of  attorney 
to  Nicholas  Potyn  to  receive  of  Sir  Nicholas  de  LovajTie  knight  seisin 
of  the  manors  of  Penshurst  and  Northpark  and  other  lands  in  the 
towns  of  Penshurst,  Tonbrugge,  Leghe,  Bitteberugh,  Speldhurst  and 
Chydyngston  co.  Kent  comprised  in  charters  indented  to  them  made 
by  the  said  Sir  Nicholas.  Dated  Penshurst,  25  March  44  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   28  May. 

Charter  of  John  de  Wysham  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to  John 
Pecche  citizen  and  aldernian  of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the 
whole  manor  of  Redelialle  co.  Surrey  w  ith  all  his  lands,  rents,  services, 
reversions,  customs,  meadows,  woods,  feedings,  and  pastures,  and 
the  park  of  Folleslowe  in  the  said  county.  Witnesses  :  Andrew 
Peverel,  Nicholas  de  Loveygne,  John  Seintcler  knights,  Roger 
Dalyngrigge,  Richard  de  Burstowe.  Dated  Redelialle,  Thursday  in 
Whitsun  week,  namel\-  G  June  44  Edw  ard  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  12  June. 

May  6.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.     Order  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made 

Westminster,  that  all  and  singular  the  men  at  arms,  armed  men  and  archers  of 
whatsoever  estate  or  condition  ^\ ho  will  freely  set  out  from  their  homes 
to  the  sea  to  serve  the  king  at  his  wages  in  Normandy  and  other  parts 
over  sea  in  France,  and  for  there  abiding  until  they  shall  cross  the  sea, 
and  for  their  passage  until  they  come  to  land  there,  shall  with  all  speed 


186  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370.  Membrane  I5d — cont. 

make  ready  with  horses,  arms  and  armour  suitahh'  for  tlieir  estate, 
and  repair  to  the  town  of  Sutharnpton,  where  the  king  has  appointed 
the  passage  of  Kohert  Knolles  and  all  the  said  men  and  of  all  others 
who  will  freely  set  (Jut  as  aforesaid,  so  as  to  be  there  before  the  octaves 
of  Mitlsuniiner  next,  or  in  the  said  octaves  at  latest,  ready  to  sail  thence  ; 
and  the  king  will  cause  them  to  be  contented  of  his  wages  from  the 
time  they  shall  leave  tlu<ir  homes  for  that  cause  and  there  abide  until 
they  shall  come  to  land  in  the  parts  aforesaid,  so  that  they  shall  there- 
after sail  thither  without  delay  in  the  company  of  the  said  Robert 
and  of  other  his  lieges. 

\Foedera.] 

The  like  to  singular  the  sheriffs  of  England. 

[Ibid.] 

Membrane  Md. 

Writing  of  Baldwin  fitz  Peres  of  Glenfeld,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warrant}^  to  Robert  de  Swylyngton  the  uncle  knight,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  all  the  lands,  reversions,  rents,  services  of  free  men  and 
neifs  w  hich  he  the  said  Robert  has  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  the  said 
Baldwin  in  Glenfeld,  Sytheston  and  Rothelay  co.  Leycestre.  Dated 
London,  Tuesday  after  Trinity  44  Edward  111. 

Meinorandiun  of  acknowledgment  before  the  chancellor,  12  June. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Robert  de  Swylyngton  the  uncle  knight 
and  Baklw  in  fitz  Peres  of  Glenfeld,  being  a  defeasance  of  the  foregoing 
release,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Baldwin,  his  heirs,  executors 
and  assigns,  on  Easter  day  next  at  Leycestre  castle  shall  pay  40L 
to  the  said  Robert,  his  heirs,  executors  or  assigns.  Dated  London, 
Wednesday  after  Trinity  44  Edward  111.     Frc7ich. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  before  the 
chancellor,  12  June. 

Charter  of  John  de  Wysham  knight,  giving  Avith  Avarranty  to  John 
Pecche  citizen  and  alderman  of  London  and  Ellen  his  wife  and  to  the 
heirs  of  their  bodies  all  his  lands,  rents  and  services  with  the  woods, 
meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  Avards,  marriages,  reliefs,  heriots,  escheats, 
appurtenances  and  profits  Avhatsoever  in  Mapplescompe  co.  Kent  and 
the  adA'OA\son  of  Mapplescompe  church,  Avith  remainder  for  lack  of 
such  issue  to  the  heirs  of  the  said  John  Pecche.  Witnesses  :  Sir  John 
de  Cobeham,  Sir  Thomas  de  Grauntson,  Sir  John  Kyriell  knights, 
John  Yedelee,  Geoffrey  Walden,  Nicholas  Baker,  Stephen  Edolf. 
Dated  Mapplescompe,  Monday  the  niorroAv  of  Trinity  44  EdAvard  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknoAvledgment  before  the  chancellor,  11  June. 

Indenture  made  betAveen  Thomas  Cornewaleys  [of]  London  and 
Joan  his  wiie  of  the  one  part  and  Henry  son  of  Henry  Fanner  [of] 
London  of  the  other  part,  being  a  grant  and  release  Avith  Avarranty  to 
the  said  Thomas  and  Joan  for  their  lives  of  all  messuages,  lands,  rents 
AA'ith  houses,  gardens,  meadoAvs,  feedings,  pastures,  commons,  Avays, 
paths,  hedges,  ditches,  Avards,  marriages,  reliefs,  heriots,  escheats, 
services,  customs,  suits  of  court,  profits,  commodities  etc.  thereto 
belonging  in  the  parish  of  St.  Botolph  Avithout  Alegate  London,  at 
Eldeforde,  le  Popeler  and  elseAvhere  in  the  parish  of  Stebenhithe, 
Avhich  the  said  Joan  has  of  the  gift  of  Richard  Smelt,  Peter  Fyge 


44    EDWARD    Ul.  187 


1370.  Membrane  14f/ — cont. 

[of]  London  and  John  Mile  cliaplain,  (lio  said  Tliomas  and  Joan 
keeping  and  maintaining  the  picmises  without  waste  or  destruetion. 
Witnesses  :  Jolin  VV'endover,  John  Tripe,  John  (Jose bourne,  Wilham 
Underwode,  John  Perekok,  John  Smart,  Maurice  (h;  Caxton.  Dated 
the  said  parish  of  St.  Botolph,  Friday  after  St.  Liike  42  Edward  111. 
Memorandum  of  acknowk^dgment  by  the  said  Thomas  Conicualeys 
and  Henry  son  of  H(>nrv  before  tlie  ehaneeUor  at  the  manse  of  the 
friars  preachers  within  Ludgate  London,  12  July  this  year. 

Membrane  13d. 

Accord  made  with  the  king's  assent,  before  WilHam  de  Wykeham 
bishop  of  Wyncestre  and  chancellor  of  England,  between  Sir  Richard 
de  Pembrugge  of  the  one  part  and  Sir  Ralph  SpigumcU  constable  of 
Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports  of  the  other  part,  that 
whereas  the  king  has  heretofore  granted  to  Sir  Ralph  for  his  life  the 
said  offices  with  the  usual  fees  and  wages,  to  wit  such  as  others  used 
to  take.  Sir  Richard  shall  ha\-e  the  said  office  with  the  fees  and  wages 
aforesaid  and  other  appurtenances,  and  Sir  Ralph  so  far  as  in  him  lies 
shall  assure  the  same  to  him  ;  wherefore  it  is  agreed  between  thera 
that  Sir  Ralph  shall  surrender  his  said  office  to  the  king  and  the  patent 
thereof  made  to  him,  for  which  grant  and  surrender  Sir  Richard  shall 
now  owe  him  400  marks,  and  shall  further  pay  Sir  Ralph  every  year 
during  his  life  at  his  lodging  in  the  parish  of  St.  Olave  by  the  Crutched 
Friars  London  100/.  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions,  the 
first  term  of  payment  being  at  Michaelmas  next,  for  payment  whereof 
Sir  Richard  shall  give  such  security  as  the  counsel  of  Sir  Ralph  shall 
advise.     Dated  London,  18  June  44  Edward  111.     French. 

Memorand^im  of  acknowledgment  b}'  the  parties  before  the 
chancellor  at  Westminster,  21  June. 

Writing  of  Ralph  Spigurnell,  being  a  surrender  to  the  king  of  the 
wardenship  of  Dovorre  castle  and  of  the  Cinque  Ports,  and  all  and 
singular  the  wages,  fees  or  commodities  thereto  belonging,  as  fully  as 
the  said  office  was  formerly  granted  to  him  for  life  by  the  king's 
letters  patent,  saving  and  reserving  to  him  all  wages,  fees,  arrears  and 
commodities  for  his  time  past  and  to  come  until  the  morrow  of 
Midsummer  next.     Dated  London,   19  June  44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  before  the  chancellor,  21  June. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Richard  de  Penbrugge  knight  and 
Sir  Ralph  Spigurnell  knight,  granting  to  Sir  Ralph  for  fife  a  yearly 
rent  of  200  marks  to  be  taken  of  Sir  Richard's  manor  of  Wadeleye 
CO.  Berkes  and  another  of  100  marks  to  be  taken  of  his  manor  of 
Orewell  co.  Cauntebrigge,  one  moiety  at  Easter  the  other  at  Michaelmas, 
to  be  paid  by  Sir  Richard,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  at  Sir  Ralph's  lodging 
in  London  by  the  Crutched  Friars  in  the  Tower  w  ard  and  the  parish 
of  St.  Olave,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  ;  upon  condition  for 
defeasance  of  the  above  mentioned  rents  so  long  as  Sir  Richard,  his 
heirs  or  assigns  of  the  said  manors,  shall  at  the  said  terms  and  place 
pay  to  Sir  Ralph  or  his  assigns,  or  to  their  attorney  bringing  a  sufficient 
acquittance,  100  marks  a  year  of  the  said  manor  of  Wadeley  and 
50  marks  a  year  of  the  said  manor  of  Orew  ell  by  even  portions.  Dated 
London,  Thursday  before  Midsummer  44  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  before  the 
chancellor,  21  June. 


188  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1870.  Membrane  13d — cont. 

June  20.  Richard    de     Pembrugge     knight    to     Ral})h     Spigurnell     knight. 

VVestiiiinbter.  Recognisance  for  3UU/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Berkshire. 

Memorandum  that  this  recognisance  was  received  by  the  chancellor. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  above  recognisance,  and  of  the  rents 
granted  by  the  foregoing  indenture  to  Sir  Ralph  Spigurnell,  so  long 
as  Sir  Ralph  shall  yearly  at  the  terms  therein  mentioned  or  within 
three  months  after  each  of  them  be  paid  100/.,  but  so  often  as  such 
payment  shall  be  Avithdrawn  at  any  term  he  may  distrain  for  the 
whole  sum  of  300  marks  mentioned  in  the  other  indenture  aforesaid. 
Dated  London,  20  June  44  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  before  the 
chancellor,  21  June. 

July  7.  John    de    Cressyngham    of    London    to    John    de    Purlee    clerk. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  100/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 

Memorandum  that  this  recognisance  was  received  by  the  chancellor. 

May  7.  To  the  sheriff  of  Stafford.     Order  to  stay  altogether  the  distraint 

Westminster,  of  William  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Benteleye  tenant  in  chief  for  his 

homage,  releasing  any  distress  made  for  that  cause  ;  as  the  said  WilUam 

has  done  domage  to  the  king.  By  p.s.  [28319.] 

Memorandum  that  on  18  June  this  year  an  indenture  of  a  debt  of 
20,000  marks  made  to  the  earl  of  Arundell  under  the  said  earl's  seal 
is  by  the  hands  of  Master  John  de  Branketre  deUvered  into  the 
treasury  to  the  chamberlains  of  the  king's  receipt. 

Membrane  12d. 

May  7.  To  the  mayor  and  baihffs  of  Sandewic.     Order  to  cause  proclamation 

Westminster,  to  be  made  in  the  town  of  Sandewic,  that  all  and  singular  who  will 
take  any  corn  or  victuals  to  the  tow  n  of  Calais  to  make  their  advantage 
thereof  shall  repair  to  the  ports  where  such  com  or  victuals  shall  be 
laded,  and  shall  there  find  security  to  take  the  same  to  Calais  and 
not  elsewhere,  to  take  of  such  men  security  for  which  they  will  answer 
for  bringing  the  same  thither  under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof,  and 
to  suffer  them  without  let  to  lade  their  corn  and  victuals  in  the  port 
of  Sandewic  and  take  the  same  to  Calais,  the  former  proclamation 
notwithstanding,  certifying  in  chancery  from  time  to  time  the  security 
so  taken,  the  quantity  and  value  of  such  corn  and  victuals  ;  as  lately  the 
king  ordered  the  sheriff  of  Kent  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made 
that  all  willing  so  to  take  corn  and  victuals  to  Calais  should  repair 
to  him  in  chancery,  there  to  find  security  as  aforesaid  ;  but  for  particular 
causes  laid  before  the  council  the  king's  will  is  that  such  security 
be  taken  by  the  mayors  and  bailiffs  of  the  said  ports. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Dovorre. 

The  bailiffs  of  la  Rye. 

The  bailiffs  of  Romeneye. 

The  bailiffs  of  Hethe. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Wynchilse. 


44    P:DVVARD    III.  189 


1370.  Memhrane  IM—cont. 

Writing  of  Jolni  de  Assheby,  being  a  (luitclaini  witli  warranty  to 
John  de  Haddon  the  king's  Serjeant  at  anus,  his  lieirs  and  assigns,  of 
all  his  lands,  rents,  services  of  free  tenants  and  neifs,  suits  of  court 
and  other  services  whatsoev'er  in  Yorkshire,  namely  in  the  towns 
of  Northelnieshale,  Southkyrkeby,  Tpton,  Ackeworth,  Wiangebroke, 
Burnelhouses,  Mensthorp  and  Thwonge.  Dated  London,  IS  June 
44  Edward  III. 

Me.  trior  and  lun  of  acknowledgment  before  the  chancellor,  10  June. 

Charter  of  John  de  Eillesford  of  Kyngespewne,  giving  with  warranty 
to  Roger  Berde  of  Sweyneston  his  heirs  and  assigns,  his  manor  of 
Kyngespewne  \\ith  the  reversions,  rents  and  services  of  free  men 
and  neifs  thereto  belonging  of  all  his  tenants  in  the  town  of 
Kyngespewne  and  elsewhere.  Witnesses  :  John  de  Burley  knight, 
Thomas  de  Sarnesfeld,  Ralph  Yedefen,  William  l^roun,  Philip  le  Cooke 
of  Bromyard,  Payn  Hergast,  Richard  Robines,  John  Yedefen.  Dated 
Bromyard,  Thursday  after  St.  Ambrose  44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  {as  above),  21  June. 

Indenture  made  between  John  de  Eillesford  knight  of  Kyngespewne 
and  Roger  Berde  of  Sweyneston,  \\itnessing  that  whereas  the  fore- 
going feoffment  of  the  manor  of  Kyngespewne  was  made  upon  the 
following  condition,  namely  that  for  a  term  of  20  years  the  said  Roger, 
his  heirs,  executors  and  assigns,  should  pay  the  said  John  or  his  heirs 
12  marks  a  year  at  the  Annunciation  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions, 
and  if  he  shall  be  longer  tenant  40Z.  a  year  at  the  same  terms,  with  power 
to  the  said  John  or  his  heirs  to  enter  if  the  rent  be  one  month  in  arrear, 
that  imder  the  like  pain  of  reentry  the  said  Roger  shall  pay  40/.  on 
Tuesday  in  Whitsun  week  next,  and  that  he  shall  make  no  waste  in 
the  premises  under  the  like  pain,  as  appears  by  indentures  already 
made  between  the  parties,  the  said  John  hereby  releases  the  payment 
of  40/.  on  the  date  aforesaid,  and  further  releases  all  rents  by  the 
former  indentures  reserved  for  a  term  of  90  years,  granting  that  the 
said  Roger,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  may  do  their  \nll  in  the  premises 
without  impeachment  of  waste  any  other  indenture  notwithstanding, 
and  further  releasing  all  his  right  in  the  said  manor  during  the  said 
term  of  GO  years.  Dated  Wednesday  after  Trinity  44  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  before  the 
chancellor,  21  June. 

May  30.  To  William  de  Topclive  bailiff  of  the  archbishop  of  Canterbury  of 

Westminster,  his  libert}'  of  Maydestan.  Order  to  set  free  Richard  vicar  of 
DudjTigton  from  Maydestan  gaol  where  he  is  bj-  the  said  bailiff  detained, 
if  it  be  for  the  cause  hereinafter  mentioned  and  for  none  other,  by 
mainprise  of  John  Depham,  John  Squier,  Simon  de  Macchyng  and 
Richard  Kene  of  London,  giving  up  to  John  Okcnfold;  John  Botiler, 
Thomas  Okenfold,  Adam  atte  Hacche,  William  Eme,  Richard  Godwyn, 
John  Thomas,  William  atte  Seathe,  James  Pj^cot,  John  Arderne, 
Brice  Peytevyn  and  John  Reyner  their  bond  given  to  the  said  bailiff 
for  a  mainprise  before  him  lately  made  ;  as  order  was  lately  taken 
by  the  king  and  council  that  all  those  who  were  apprehended  at  the 
suit  of  Hugh  de  Lavenham  late  the  king's  prover,  whether  bj-  appeal  or 
by  accusation,  should  be  set  free  by  mainprise,  and  petition  for  release 
is  made  to  the  king  on  behalf  of  the  said  vicar,  whom  at  the  said 


190 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370.  Membrane  \2d — cont. 

Hugli's  suit  the  said  bailiff  has  taken  and  is  detaining,  as  he  has 
certified  in  chancery  at  the  king's  command,  since  the  said  vicar  is 
ready  to  answer  touching  the  felonies  and  trespasses  whatsoever 
laid  to  his  charge  by  the  said  Hugh,  and  to  stand  to  right  according 
to  the  law  and  custom  of  the  realm  ;  and  the  said  John  Depham  and 
others  appearing  in  person  in  chancery  have  mainperned  for  the  said 
vicar  to  have  him  before  wliatsoever  justices  the  king  shall  appoint, 
to  stand  to  right  touching  the  premises. 

Assignment  of  dower  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  Lelly  the  younger, 
made  at  Carlton  8  May  44  Edv^ard  III  before  Thomas  de  Musgrave 
escheator  in  Yorkshire,  in  presence  of  John  son  of  Walter  de  Carleton, 
John  Baillour,  John  del  Lowe,  Thomas  son  of  William  of  the  same 
and  others.  In  the  capital  messuage  of  John  Lely  her  husband  in 
Carleton  by  Snayth  one  grange  with  all  the  garden  extending  from 
the  hall  ttowards  adjoining  the  said  messuaget  by  the  public  lane 
of  the  said  town  towards  the  north  (boriens)  as  shewn  by  bounds,  one 
house  with  chamber  built  opposite  the  hall  to  the  south  without  (sine) 
the  garden  adjoining  ;  in  the  messuage  caUed  Marshalplace  the  lesser 
grange  there  built  with  a  third  part  of  all  the  garden  adjoining  nearest 
the  sun  (sflis)  as  shewn  by  metes  and  bounds  ;  in  Carleton  field  one 
w  hole  several  pasture  called  '  Lely  pasture  '  containing  16  acres  of 
land,  one  cnltura  there  called  '  Outerwith  '  containing  4i  acres  of 
land,  one  cullura  called  '  Mikilbaghan  '  containing  4  acres  of  land, 
one  ndtura  called  '  Lutilbaghan '  containing  4  acres  of  land,  one  cultura 
called  '  Undirbaghan  '  containing  3  acres  of  land,  one  cultura  called 
'  Perky ngarth  '  containing  3  acres  of  land,  and  one  cultura  called 
'  Havircroft '  containing  6  acres  of  land,  with  free  ingress  and  egre.ss 
and  all  ajjpurtenances  in  the  town  and  territory  of  Carleton  aforesaid. 

Writing  of  John,  son  of  Richard  atte  Celer  citizen  of  London,  being 
a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  de  Swanbourne  clerk,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  of  a  third  part  of  one  tenement  in  the  town  of  St.  Albans 
sometime  of  John  Brockele,  \\hich  third  part  the  said  John  de  Swan- 
bourne  lately  purchased  of  John  atte  Celer  brother  of  the  said  John 
son  of  Richard.  Witnesses  :  William  Martyn,  Thomas  Hostiler, 
John  Pj'kebon,  Alexander  Bysouthe,  William  Kendale.  Dated 
St.  Albans,  31  January  44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  before  the  chancellor,  30  June. 

June  24.  To  the  collectors  in  Surrey  of  the  three  years'  tenth  last  granted 
Westminster,  to  the  king  by  the  clergy  of  the  province  of  Canterbury.  Order,  for 
particular  cau.ses,  of  the  king's  favour  to  stay  until  Michaelmas  next 
the  levy  to  the  king's  use  of  the  said  tenth  of  the  ecclesiastical  goods 
of  the  abbot  of  Cherteseye,  releasing  any  sequestration  of  the  fruits 
of  his  ecclesiastical  benefices  made  for  that  cause. 

The  like  to  the  collectors  in  Berkshire. 

Memorandum  that  after,  on  22  December,  the  said  abbot  had  like 
writs  addressed  to  the  collectors  in  Middlesex  to  stay  the  levy  until 
Easter  next. 

Aug.  28.  Robert  de  Stowe  clerk  is  sent  to  H.  bishop  of  Norwich,  to  have  the 

Havering,     yearly  pension  wherein  the  said  bishop  by  reason  of  his  new  creation 

is  bound  to  one  of  the  king's  clerks  at  the  king's  nomination,  until 

provision  be  made  him  by  the  bishop  of  some  ecclesiastical  benefice. 

By  p.s.  [28500.] 


44  EDWARD  III.  191 


1370.  Membrane  Ud. 

Writing  of  William  de  Hopton  of  the  county  of  Salop,  being  a 
grant  and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  Pecche  citizen  and  alderman 
of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Redehalle  co.  Surrey 
and  all  lands,  rents,  services,  reversions,  customs,  meadows,  woods, 
feedings  and  pastures,  and  of  Folleslowe  park  etc.  in  the  same  county, 
which  the  said  John  has  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  John  de  Wysham 
knight.  Dated  London,  Thursday  the  feast  of  Corpus  Christi,  namely 
13  June  44  Edward  IlL 

Writing  of  William  de  Hopton,  being  a  <.rrant  and  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  John  Pecche  citizen  and  alderman  of  London  and  Ellen  his 
wife  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  for  lack  of  such  issue  to  the 
heirs  of  the  said  John,  of  the  lands,  rents,  customs  and  services  etc.  in 
Mapplescompe  co.  Kent,  and  of  the  advowson  of  Mapplescompe  church, 
which  they  have  hy  gift  and  feoffment  of  John  de  Wysham  knight. 
Witnesses:  John  de  Chichestre,  Adam  Fraunceys,  Hugh  Holbech, 
Adam  de  Sancto  Ivone,  Thomas  de  Saham.  Dated  London,  Sunday 
after  Corpus  Christi  44  Edw  ard  IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings  before 
the  chancellor,  18  June. 

Jul}'  6.  To   the  sheriff  of  Cumberland.     Order  to  make  a  regard   in   the 

Westminster,  forest  of  Ingelwode  according  to  the  capitnla  following,  so  that  the 
regard  be  made  before  Martinmas  next. 

Capitula. 

Membrane  lOd. 

June  8.  John  de  Wysliam  knight  to  John  Pecche  citizen  and  alderman  of 

Westminster.  London.     Recognisance  for  300/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Kent. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  John  de  Wysham  knight  and  John 
Pecche  citizen  and  alderman  of  London,  being  a  defeasance  of  the 
foregoing  recognisance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  John  Pecche,  his 
heirs  or  assigns,  be  not  impeached  nor  impleaded  concerning  the 
manors,  lands,  rents,  services,  customs,  parks,  woods,  meadows, 
pastures,  fees,  reversions  etc.  in  Kent  and  Surrey,  which  he  has  by  gift 
and  feoffment  of  the  said  Sir  John,  nor  any  parcel  thereof,  that  they 
be  not  impeached  nor  lose  aught  thereof  by  an  action  of  dower  at  the 
suit  of  Katherine  wife  of  the  said  Sir  John  if  she  survive  him  or  of 
any  other  woman,  nor  be  charged  by  statute  merchant,  recognisance, 
rent  charge  or  annuity  heretofore  made,  and  that  if  they  so  lo.se  aught 
Sir  John  or  his  heirs  shall  within  one  quarter  of  a  year  recompense 
them  for  such  loss  and  for  their  costs  and  damages  thereby  incurred 
without  collusion  or  covin,  and  they  shall  thereof  have  matter  of 
record  or  deed  witnessing  the  same  which  shall  be  given  them  by 
the  said  John  Pecche,  his  heirs  or  assigns.  Dated  London,  11  June 
44  Edward  III.     French. 

Memonmdum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  before  the  chancellor, 
1 1  June. 

Writing  of  Florymound  lord  of  la  Sparre,  being  a  declaration  that 
whereas  the  king  of  France  and  England  has  delivered  to  him  the 
person  of  Hugh  de  Ronssy,  conveying  to  him  and  his  heirs  all  right 


192 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370.  Mefnhrane  lOd — cont. 

and  action  in  regard  to  tlie  said  Hugli,  this  was  done  in  full  satisfaction 
of  1,000/.  diu'  from  the  king  t(j  his  late  father  and  to  him  the  said 
Florymound  for  wages  of  war  and  otherwise  ;  and  accjuittance  of 
the  said  debt,  annulling  all  Ixmds  etc.  to  him  or  his  father  made  for 
the  saftie  or  for  any  parcel  thereof.  Dated  the  city  of  London,  17  June, 
1370,  30  and  44*[Kdward  III].     French. 

Writing  of  Florymond  lord  of  la  Sparre,  being  a  bond  to  the  king 
of  France  and  Kngland  in  1,000/.  i)ayable  to  the  treasurer  of  England 
in  the  city  of  London  at  the  feast  of  St.  John  the  Baptist  next  year, 
provided  that  if  he  the  said  Florymond  may  shew  the  king  or  council 
that  the  kinii  is  bound  to  his  late  father  and  him  in  the  same  sum 
for  wages  of  war,  this  bond  shall  be  of  none  effect.  Dated  the  city 
of  London,  17  June  1370.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings  before 
the  chancellor,  18  June. 

July  12.  Robert  James  to  John  de  Wenlyngburgh  the  elder  clerk.     Recog- 

Westniinster.  ni.sance  for  100,s'.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  hi.s  lands  and 
chattels  in  Somerset. 

Memorandura  that  this  recognisance  was  received  by  the  chancellor. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

June  26.  William  bishop  of  Winchester,  Simon  bi.shop  of  London,  Thomas 
Westminster,  bishop  of  Exeter,  William  Latymer  knight  and  Richard  de  Pembrugge 
knight  to  William  de  Monte  Acuto  earl  of  Salisbury.  Joint  and 
several  recognisance  for  1,000  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  their  lands 
and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  the  counties  of  Suthampton 
Essex,  Devon,  York  and  Gloucester. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

July  24.  To  the  sheriff  of  Dorset.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Thomas  Creue 

Clarendon,  parson  of  Fallegh,  to  stay  the  exigents  against  him  and  the  taking  of 
his  bod}^  by  mainprise  of  Andrew  de  Stretford,  Peter  le  Clerc  of  Iwerne, 
John  AvTiell  and  John  de  Pershute  of  Wiltcsir,  bringing  this  writ 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  on  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is 
returnable  ;  as  George  de  Caneford  is  impleading  the  said  Thomas 
*  before  the  said  justices  for  a  debt  of  10/.,  and  the  said  Thomas  is 

A\'ithout  his  knowledge  put  in  exigents  to  be  outlawed  in  the  said 
county  for  that  he  came  not  to  answer  before  the  said  justices,  where- 
fore he  has  prayed  for  a  stay  until  the  aforesaid  day,  as  he  is  ready 
to  stand  to  right  in  all  things  touching  the  premises  ;  and  the  said 
Andrew,  Peter,  John  and  John,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have  his  body  before  the 
said  justices  on  that  day. 

Aug.  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.     Order,  on  sight  of  these  presents,  to  cause 

Clarendon,  proclamation  to  be  made  that  no  merchant  native  or  alien  nor  other 
person  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition  shall  under  pain  of  forfeiture 
bring  wool,  hides  or  woolfells  to  be  taken  over  seas  to  any  place  within 
the  realm  save  to  the  ports  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne,  Kyngeston  upon 
Hull,  St.  Botolph,  Great  Jernemuth,  London,  Quenesburgh,  Cicestre, 
Suthampton,  Exeter  and  Bristol  or  one  of  them,  nor  after  Monday 
after  St.  Bartholomew  next  take  them  to  any  foreign  parts  save  to 
the  towTi  of  Calais,  as  heretofore  used. to  be  done  ;   as  by  ad\ace  of  the 


44    EDWARD    III.  193 


1370.  Membrane  \0d — cont. 

council  the  king  has  appointed  that  wool,  hides,  and  woolfells  shall 
from  tliat  day  forward  be  in  the  said  ports  and  in  none  other  laded, 
customed  and  cocketed,  and  shall  under  pain  of  forieiture  thereof  be 
taken  thence  to  Calais,  where  it  is  the  king's  will  that  the  staple  of 
wool,  hides  and  woolfells  shall  henceforth  be  held  in  the  manner  at 
another  time  appointed,  and  not  elsewhere.  By  K.  and  C. 

The  like  to  tlie  sheriffs  of  London,  and  to  singular  the  sheriflFa 
throughout  England. 

Membrane  dd. 

Writing  of  William  Gerveys  clerk,  son  of  Roger  Gerveys,  being 
.an  attornment  to  William  de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester  and 
his  heirs  concerning  the  reversion  of  all  lands  held  by  the  said  clerk 
in  the  towns  of  Byketon  and  Drayton  co.  Suthampton,  which  after 
his  death  ought  to  remain  to  the  said  bishop  and  his  heirs  by  virtue 
of  a  grant  lately  made  by  Andrew  Gerveys  brother  of  the  said  clerk. 
Dated  Famham,  2  October  44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Famham 
castle  CO.  Surrey,  2  October. 

July  13.  John  Roos,  Peter  Ughtred,  Thomas  Beauderer,  Nicholas  de  Skelton 

Westminster,  and   Thomas   de   Watton   to   Richard   de    Ravenser   archdeacon    of 

Lincoln  and  John  de  Ravenser  clerk.     Joint  and  several  recognisance 

for  20Z.  payable  by  instalments  ;   to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 

of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Yorkshire. 

Memorandum  that  this  recognisance  was  received  by  Walter  Power 
clerk,  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus  potestatem  which  is 
on  the  files  for  this  year. 

Nov.  9.  Peter  de  Careswelle  knight  to  Baldwin  de  Fryville  knight.     Recog- 

VVestminster.  nisance  for  1,000/.  payable  by  instalments  ;  to  be  levied  etc.  in 
Staffordshire  and  Salop. 

Memorandum  that  this  recognisance  was  received  by  the  chancellor. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Membrane  8d. 

Oct.  10.  Roger  de  Stanyngdenne  of  Lymnesfcld  to  Nicholas  abbot  of  West- 

Westminster,  minster  or  his  successors.  Recognisance  for  100  marks,  to  be  levied 
etc.  in  Surrey. 

Oct.  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.    Order,  on  sight  of  these  presents,  to  cause 

Westminster,  proclamation  to  be  made  in  the  fairs,  markets,  hundreds,  market 
towns  etc.  in  his  bailiwick  within  liberties  and  without  on  the  king's 
behalf  forbidding  any  man  under  pain  of  forfeiture  and  of  the  imprison- 
ment of  seller  and  buyer  to  embrace,  buy  or  forestall  in  gross  any 
com  which  is  in  granges  or  stacks,  or  other  corn  before  it  shall  come 
to  markets  and  fairs  and  shall  there  be  exposed  for  sale  in  market  overt  ; 
as  the  king  is  informed  that  certain  forestallers,  embracers  of  corn  and 
regraters  do  embrace,  buy  and  forestall  wheat,  malt  and  other  corn 
in  gross,  as  well  com  in  granges  and  stacks  as  other  com  to  be  by 
men  of  the  said  county  brought  to  markets  and  fairs  before  it  come 
thither,  putting  such  com  in  granges,  granaries  and  other  places 
and  so  withholding  it,  and  utterly  refusing  to  sell  the  same  to  men  of 

CR  Iti 


194 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370. 


Membrane  Sd — cont. 


the  county   who  are   in    manifold   need   tliercof,   wherefore  deamess 
of  com  is  daily  increasing  in  those  parts,  in  contempt  of  the  king  and 
to  the  impoverishment  of  the  people  of  the  county. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  sheriflf  of  Essex  and  Hertford. 

The  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge  and  Huntingdon. 

The  sheriff  of  Bedford  and  Bukingham. 

The  sheriff  of  London. 

The  sheriff  of  Middlesex. 

The  sheriff  of  Lincoln. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Beverley. 

Oct.  14.  Richard  de  Heton,  Hugh  del  Holt,  John  Asshehurst,  William  son 

Weatminster.  of  William  de  Radeclif  and  Geoffrey  del  Holt  to  the  king.  Recog- 
nisance for  10/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands 
and  chattels  in  Lancashire. 

Writing  of  Alan  son  of  Theobald  de  Twitham,  being  a  general  release 
to  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  de  Brokhull  knight  of  all  actions 
real  and  personal  by  reason  of  debt,  waste  or  contract.  Dated 
Orpynton,  13  July  44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Suthwerk  before  the  chancellor, 
14  October. 

Writing  of  Margaret  sometime  wife  of  Thomas  de  Brokhull  knight, 
being  a  general  release  to  Alan  de  Twitham,  son  of  Theobald  de 
Twitham,  of  all  actions  real  and  personal  by  reason  of  account, 
trespass,  contract  or  recognisance  in  chancery  to  her  made.  Dated 
Orpynton,  13  June  44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  {as  the  last). 

Oct.  30.  John   Cole   of   Briggewater   to   William   de   Monte   Acuto   earl   of 

Westminster.  Salisbury.  Recognisance  for  40/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Somerset. 

Memorandum  that  this  recognisance  was  received  by  the  chancellor. 

Writing  of  John  de  Mildecombe,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Sir  Thomas  de  Broughton  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the 
lands  sometime  of  John  de  Mildecombe  father  of  the  said  John  in 
the  to\\-n  and  fields  of  Mildecombe.  Witnesses  :  Walter  ate  Halle, 
Richard  Page,  John  le  Say,  Simon  de  Fifhj'^de.  Dated  Bloxham, 
Saturday  the  feast  of  St.  Peter's  Chains  44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  John  de  Mildecombe  the 
son,  8  October  at  Oxford  before  John  Moubray,  by  virtue  of  the 
king's  writ  of  dedimus  potestatem  which  is  on  the  file  for  this  year. 


Membrane  Id. 

Indenture  made  between  the  king  of  the  one  part  and  Robert  Rous 
of  Bristowe  and  William  de  Notyngham  of  Bissheie  of  the  other  part, 
being  a  lease  for  seven  years  from  this  date  of  all  the  king's  mines 
of  gold;  silver,  lead  and  tin  found  in  Gloucestershire  in  hills,  fields  and 
waste  places  etc.  {as  above,  p.  107  ;  adding  a  provision  that)  the  king 
shaU  have  for  iiis  seignorage  the  ninth  pound  of  all  plate  of  gold  and 


44    EDWARD    III.  195 


1370.  Membrane  Id — cont. 

silver  from  the  mines  arising,  ami  where  lead  ore  shall  be  found  the 
lord  of  the  soil  shall  have  the  thirteentli  part  of  the  ore,  and  where  tin 
shall  be  found  the  tenth  part  of  the  tin  ore,  and  the  lessees  the  residue 
of  the  profit.  Dated  \Vestminster,  22  October  44  Edward  III. 
French.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Oct.  28.  To  the  sheriflf  of  Kent.     Whereas  lately  the  king  ordered  him  to 

Wostininster.  cause  jiroclamation  to  be  made  within  liberties  and  without  on  the 
king's  behalf  forbidding  any  man,  under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof  and 
of  the  imprisonment  of  buyer  and  seller,  to  embrace,  buy  or  forestall 
in  gross  any  com  in  granges  and  stacks,  or  any  corn  before  it  should 
come  to  markets  and  fairs  and  be  there  exposed  for  sale  in  market  overt, 
but  it  was  and  is  the  intent  of  the  king  and  council  that  prelates, 
nobles  and  other  lords  and  men  of  the  church  may  lawfully  without 
impeachment  sell  their  corn  in  houses,  granges  etc.  where  they  think 
best  in  gross  and  in  parcels  any  proclamation  and  the  said  prohibition 
notwithstanding,  provided  that  the  pain  of  forfeiture  and  imprisonment 
aforesaid  shall  be  executed  upon  common  embracers,  forestallers  and 
regraters  :  order  therefore,  on  sight  of  these  presents,  to  cause  proclama- 
tion to  be  made  of  the  premises  in  singular  the  fairs,  markets, 
hundreds,  market  toAMis  and  other  places  in  his  bailiwick,  Avithin 
liberties  and  without,  in  form  aforesaid. 

[Foedera.] 

The  like  to  the  sheriff  of  Essex  and  Hertford,  to  two  other  sheriffs 
of  four  other  counties,  the  sheriffs  of  London,  and  the  sheriff  of 
Middlesex. 

[Ibid.] 

Membrane  6d. 

Indenture  made  between  William  de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester 
and  Edmund  de  Stonore,  being  a  grant  and  surrender  to  the  said 
Edmund,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Asshe 
CO.  Suthampton  and  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  heretofore  of  the 
said  Edmund  in  Overton,  Quydhampton,  Polhampton,  Okie  and  Asshe 
in  the  said  county  lately  given  by  his  charter  indented  to  the  said  now 
bishop  by  name  of  Sir  William  de  Wykeham  archdeacon  of  Lincoln  for 
his  life,  and  to  his  heirs  and  executors  for  the  term  of  20  years  after  his 
death,  and  of  all  the  said  bishop's  estate  therein  by  reason  of  that  gift ; 
which  grant  and  surrender  the  said  Edmund  has  accepted  so  far  as 
in  liim  lies.     Dated  London,  3  October  44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  6  October. 

Writing  of  Edmund  de  Stonore,  being  a  quitclaim  to  William  de 
Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  whole 
manor  of  Repynghale  co.  Lincoln.  Dated  London,  3  November 
44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  12  December. 

Charter  of  William  de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester,  granting 
to  Edmund  de  Stonore,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the  whole  manor  of 
Repjmghale  co.  Lincoln,  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  towns 
of  Repynghale,  Walcote,  Hacomby  and  Kyrkeby  or  elsewhere  in  the 
parts  of  Kestevene,  and  the  advowson  of  the  tliird  part  of  Repynghale 
church,  which  were  sometime  of  John  de  Stonore  knight  grand- 
father of  the  said  Edmund.     Witnesses  :    Sir  Thomas   de    Fulnetby 


196  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370.  Membrane  (id — cont. 

knight,  Walter  Kolby,  William  Hauley,  John  de  Repynghale,  Henry 
Hansty.     Dated  Suthwerk,  30  November  44  Edward  IIL 

Writing  of  William  de  Wykcham  bishop  of  Winchester,  being  a 
letter  of  attorney  to  William  Hauley  and  John  de  Repynghale  and 
either  of  them  to  deliver  to  Edmund  de  Stonore  seisin  of  the  whole 
manor  of  Repynghale,  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  towns  of 
Repynghale,  Walcote,  Hacomby  and  Kyrkeby  or  elsewhere  in  the 
parts  of  Kestevene,  and  of  the  advowson  of  the  third  part  of  Repyng- 
hale church,  sometime  of  John  de  Stonore  knight  grandfather  of  the 
said  Edmund,  according  to  the  said  bishop's  charter.  Dated  Suth- 
werk, 1  December  44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  12  December. 

Charter  of  Edmund  de  Stonore,  giving  with  warranty  to  William 
de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  his  whole 
manor  and  the  advowson  of  Asshe  and  all  his  lands,  rents  and  services 
in  Overton,  Quydhampton,  Polhampton,  Oklee  and  Asshe  co.  Suth- 
ampton.  Witnesses  :  Lawrence  de  Sancto  Martino,  Bernard  Brocas, 
Hugh  Camoys  knights,  Peter  de  Brugges,  Walter  de  Haywode.  Dated 
Asshe,  30  November  44  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Edmund  de  Stonore,  being  a  letter  of  attorney  to  John 
de  Warbleton  and  Henry  de  Wattesford  and  either  of  them  to  deliver 
to  William  de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester  seisin  of  the  whole 
manor  and  the  advowson  of  Asshe  and  of  lands,  rents  and  services 
in  Overton,  Quydhampton,  Polhampton,  Oklee  and  Asshe  co.  Suth- 
ampton.     Dated  Suthwerk,  1  December  44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  4  December. 

Assignment  of  dower  of  Beatrice  who  was  wife  of  Reynold  Perrot, 
made  at  Pleyteford  co.  Wiltesir  15  November  44  Edward  III  by  John 
Froille  escheator,  namely  all  her  said  husband's  lands,  rents  and 
services  in  Bymerton,  a  chamber  with  a  cellar  on  the  east  side  of  the 
hall  in  the  manor  of  Pleyteford,  the  gate  with  the  chamber  within  the 
bridge,  and  one  house  on  the  west  side  of  the  said  gate,  22s.  6^d.  of 
rent  to  be  taken  3-early  of  divers  tenants  of  the  said  manor  of  Pleyte- 
ford, namely  of  Thomas  Arnald  85.,  of  Richard  Waterman  45.  6d., 
of  William  Agodeshalf  4s.  Td.,  of  Philip  Bone  5s.  5^d.,  a  third  part  of 
all  profits  arising  from  the  view  of  frankpledge  of  the  said  manor,  a 
wood  called  the  '  HacchcAvode  '  in  Abboteston,  and  a  grove  called 
the  '  Moregrove  '  in  the  More. 

Membrane  5d. 

Writing  of  Edmund  de  Stonore,  granting  to  William  de  Wykeham 
bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  10?.  to  be 
taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  the  said  Edmund's 
whole  manor  of  Penyton  co.  Suthampton  and  all  other  his  lands  in  that 
county,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears,  and  bond  for  payment 
thereof  by  the  said  Edmund,  his  heirs  and  executors  ;  and  he  has  put 
the  said  bishop  in  seisin  with  his  own  hands  by  payment  of  the  said 
rent  for  the  first  year,  to  wit  for  both  terms.  Dated  Suthwerk, 
4  December  44  Edward  III. 


44  EDWARD  III.  197 


1370.  Membrane  5d — cont. 

Writing  of  Edmund  de  Stonore,  granting  to  William  de  Wykeham 
bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  201.  to  be 
taken  of  the  said  Edmund's  whole  manor  of  Beyreton  by  Aylesbury 
CO.  Bukingham  and  of  all  other  his  lands  in  that  county  etc.  {as  the 
last).     Dated  {as  above). 

Writing  of  Edmund  de  Stonore,  granting  to  William  de  Wykeham 
bisliop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  30^.  to 
be  taken  of  the  said  Edmund's  whole  manor  of  HamhuU  co.  Gloucester, 
of  all  his  lands  in  Hembury  in  Saltmerssh,  and  of  all  other  his  lands 
in  that  county  etc.  {as  above).     Dated  {as  above). 

Writing  of  Edmund  de  Stonore,  granting  to  William  de  Wyke- 
ham bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  30/. 
to  be  taken  of  the  said  Edmund's  whole  manor  of  Stonore  co.  Oxford 
and  of  all  other  his  lands  in  that  county  etc.  {as  above).  Dated  {as 
above). 

Writing  of  Edmund  de  Stonore,  granting  to  William  de  Wykeham 
bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  50/.  to 
be  taken  of  the  said  Edmund's  whole  manor  of  Dodecote  co.  Berks, 
of  all  his  lands  in  Tyeghelhurst,  and  of  all  other  his  lands  in  that 
county  etc.  {as  above).     Dated  {as  above). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings, 
4  December. 

Membrane  4d. 

Indenture  made  between  William  de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Win- 
chester and  Edmund  de  Stonore,  witnessing  that  whereas  Thomas  de 
Hungerford,  son  and  heir  of  Walter  de  Hungerford  to  whom  Adam 
fitz  Johan  then  tenant  of  the  manor  of  Rep3Tighale  granted  a  yearly 
rent  of  20/.,  b}''  his  writing  has  made  a  quitclaim  to  the  said  bishop, 
being  then  tenant  thereof,  of  all  his  right  in  the  said  manor,  by  another 
writing  has  made  a  quitclaim  of  any  rent  thereof  arising,  and  by  a 
third  of  any  right  in  the  said  manor  or  any  rent  thereof  arising,  willing 
to  warrant  the  said  manor  to  the  said  bishop,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
quit  and  discharged  of  every  rent  in  order  to  discharge  the  same  of 
the  rent  aforesaid  ;  and  whereas  after  the  said  bishop  has  by  his 
charter  granted  the  said  manor  to  the  said  Edmund  in  fee  simple, 
the  said  bishop  for  the  advantage  of  the  said  Edmund  and  his  heirs 
willing  to  make  further  provision  for  the  discharge  of  the  said  manor, 
which  is  in  his  hands  according  to  the  things  contained  in  another 
indenture,  has  this  day  in  his  lodging  of  Suthwerk  delivered  to  the 
said  Edmund  the  writings  above  mentioned.  {Text  follows.)  Dated 
Suthwerk,  6  December  44  Edward  III. 
The  following  are  the  writings  so  delivered  : 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Hungreford,  being  a  quitclaim  to  William 
de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  any 
yearly  rent  whatsoever  arising  from  the  manor  of  Reppynghale 
CO.  Lincoln,  and  from  all  the  lands  in  Walcote,  Kyrkeby, 
Ryngesdon  and  Dunnesby  which  with  the  said  manor  the  said 
bishop  had  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  Edmund  son  and  heir  of 
John  de  Stonore  knight.  Dated  Stonore  co.  Oxford,  Tuesday 
after  the  Purification  44  Edward  III. 


198  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1370.  Membrane  M — cont. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Hungreford,  being  a  quitclaim  to  William 
de  VVykeham  bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of 
all  right  in  the  manor  of  Reppynghale  co.  Lincoln  and  in  all 
lands  in  Walcote,  Kyrkeby,  Ryngesdon  and  Dunnesby  which 
with  the  said  manor  the  said  bishop  had  by  gift  and  feoifment 
of  Edmund  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Stonore  knight  ;  and 
warranty  of  the  premises,  provided  that  this  warranty  shall 
take  effect  whensoever  the  said  bishop,  his  heirs  or  assigns, 
shall  be  impleaded  or  otherwise  impeached  concerning  i\\6 
premises  or  any  parcel  thereof  by  the  said  Thomas  or  any  of 
liis  heirs,  but  not  when  they  shall  be  so  impleaded  by  others. 
Dated  (as  the  last). 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Hungreford,  being  a  quitclaim  to  William 
de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  of  all 
right  in  the  manor  of  Reppynghale  co.  Lincoln  and  in  all  lands 
in  W^alcote,  Kyrkeby,  Ryngesdon  and  Dunnesby  which  with  the 
said  manor  the  said  bishop  had  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  Edmund 
son  and  heir  of  John  de  Stonore  knight,  and  in  any  yearly  rent 
thereof  issuing  and  for  any  cause  due  to  him  the  said  Thomas 
or  his  heirs ;  and  \\'arranty  of  the  premises  quit  and  discharged 
of  all  and  singular  such  rents,  provided  etc.  [as  the  last). 
Dated  {as  the  last). 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  12  December. 

Indenture  made  between  William  de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester 
and  Edmund  de  Stonore,  witnessing  that  the  said  bishop  has  granted 
to  the  said  Edmund,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  20/.  to  be 
taken  at  Michaelmas  of  the  whole  manor  of  Asshe  and  of  all  the  lands 
in  Overton,  Quydhampton,  Polhampton,  Okie  and  Asshe  co.  Suth- 
ampton  sometime  of  John  de  Stonore  grandfather  of  the  said  Edmund, 
with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears,  upon  this  condition  and  not  other- 
wise, namely  that  whereas  speech  was  heretofore  made  between  the 
said  bishop  and  the  said  Edmund  that  for  particular  causes  the  said 
bishop  should  so  far  as  in  him  lay  discharge  and  acquit  the  manor  of 
RepjTighale  co.  Lincoln  toward  Thomas  de  Hungerford  and  his  heirs 
of  a  yearly  rent  of  20Z.  lately  granted  by  Adam  fiz  Johan,  then  tenant  of 
that  manor,  to  Walter  de  Hungerford  father  of  the  said  Thomas  whose 
heir  he  is,  and  to  his  heirs,  and  whereas  at  the  said  bishop's  instance  the 
said  Thomas  has  delivered  to  him,  being  then  tenant  of  that  manor,  the 
writing  of  the  said  Adam  made  to  the  said  Walter,  and  it  is  at  present 
unknowTi  where  that  writing  ought  to  be  found,  and  whereas  by  three 
other  writings,  to  the  said  Edmund  delivered  by  indenture  by  the 
said  bishop,  the  said  Thomas  has  quitclaimed  to  the  said  bishop,  being 
then  tenant  as  aforesaid,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  all  right  as  well  in 
the  said  yearly  rent  as  in  the  said  manor  of  Repynghale,  walling  to 
give  warranty  thereof  quit  of  the  said  rent  and  of  any  other  what- 
soever, the  said  bishop,  willing  so  far  as  in  him  lies  to  perform  his 
speech  aforesaid,  and  to  make  provision  for  saving  the  estate  of  the 
said  Edmund  and  his  heirs,  in  recompense  for  the  said  charge  by  the 
said  Adam  made  upon  the  said  manor  of  Repynghale  in  case  that  the 
manor  hereafter  be  lawfully  charged  therewith  contrary  to  the  premises, 
has  agreed  with  the  said  Edmund  that  the  rent  first  mentioned  shall  be 
taken  of  the  manor  of  Asshe  and  of  the  other  towns  aforesaid  under 
the  form  following  and  not  otherwise,  to  wit  that  so  soon  as  the 


44  EDWARD  III.  19a 


1370.  Membrane  4d — cont. 

writing  above  mentioned  of  the  said  Adam  shall  be  found  and  shall 
by  any  on  behalf  of  the  said  bishop,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  be  delivered 
to  the  said  Edmund  or  his  heirs,  or  shall  be  offered  and  by  them  refused, 
the  cause  of  so  delivering  the  same  and  the  things  therein  contained 
being  first  rehearsed,  this  grant  shall  be  void,  and  as  well  the  said  bishop 
and  his  heirs  as  the  said  manor  of  Asshe  and  other  the  lands  aforesaid 
shall  be  for  ever  quit  and  discharged  of  the  said  rent, 'the  part  of  this 
indenture  sealed  with  the  bishop's  seal  and  delivered  to  the  said 
Edmund  being  delivered  again  to  the  bishop,  his  heirs  or  assigns  of 
the  said  manor  of  Asshe  ;  and  it  is  agreed  that  although  the  writing 
of  the  said  Adam  be  never  found,  deUvered  or  offered  to  the  said 
Edmund  or  to  his  heirs,  nevertheless  payment  of  the  rent  hereby 
granted  shall  be  suspended  and  not  be  made  until  one  of  the  heirs 
of  the  said  Thomas  shall  by  lawful  title  without  fraud  and  collusion 
recover  against  the  said  Edmund  or  his  heirs  by  due  process  of  law  and 
by  judgment  thereupon  the  rent  granted  to  the  said  Walter  contrary  to 
the  three  writings  of  quitclaim  which  shall  be  put  in  plea,  there  being 
no  other  true  and  lawful  matter  to  be  set  forth  Anth  them  or  by  itself 
which  might  bar  the  plaintiff's  claim,  and  shall  by  \-irtue  of  such 
judgment  obtain  execution,  provided  that  payment  shall  never  be 
made,  nor  shall  it  be  lawful  to  distrain,  unless  some  heir  of  the  said 
Thomas  shall  obtain  judgment  and  execution  as  aforesaid,  but  only 
after  the  rendering  and  execution  of  any  such  judgment  shall  payment 
be  made  so  long  as  the  heirs  of  the  said  Edmund  shall  be  lawfully 
compelled  to  pay  the  rent  so  recovered  against  them  and  no  longer, 
and  of  the  arrears  thereof  so  much  shall  be  paid  them  by  the  tenant 
for  the  time  being  of  the  said  manor  of  Asshe  and  of  the  other  lands 
aforesaid  as  by  such  judgment  shall  be  recovered  against  them  of  the 
aforesaid  other  rent,  so  that  if  no  arrears  be  adjudged  or  paid  to  the 
heirs  of  the  said  Thomas  none  shall  be  paid  to  the  said  Edmund  or  to 
his  heirs  or  by  them  demanded,  and  when  pajinent  of  one  rent  shall 
cease  payment  of  the  other  shall  cease  likewise  ;  and  it  is  further 
agreed  that  after  or  before  the  rendering  of  such  judgment  as  aforesaid 
whensoever  the  said  Thomas  and  all  other  issue  of  the  said  Walter  and  of 
Elizabeth  sometime  his  wife  shall  be  dead  without  an  heir  of  their 
bodies,  this  grant  shall  no  more  take  effect,  and  the  part  of  this 
indenture  sealed  with  the  bishop's  seal  and  delivered  to  the  said 
Edmund  shall  be  delivered  again  to  the  bishop  or  to  liis  heirs.  Dated 
Suthwerk,  6  December  44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  12  December. 

Membrane  M. 

Dec.  8.  Edmund  de  Stonore,  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Stonore  knight  [militis), 

Weatminster.  to  William  de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester.  Recognisance  for 
500/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
the  county  of  Suthampton. 

Indenture  between  William  de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester  and 
Edmund  de  Stonore,  witnessing  that  whereas  the  said  Edmund  has 
granted  the  said  bishop,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  j^early  rent  of  50Z. 
to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  his  manor 
of  Dodecote  co.  Berks  and  of  all  his  lands  in  Tj'cghelhurst  and  else- 
where in  the  said  county,  and  whereas  he  has  granted  the  said  bishop, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  another  yearly  rent  of  SOZ.  to  be  Ukewise  taken 


200 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1370.  Membrane  3d — cont. 

of  his  manor  of  Stonore  co.  Oxford  and  of  all  other  his  lands  in  that 
county,  and  a  third  yearly  rent  of  20/.  to  be  likewise  taken  of  his 
manor  of  Beyreton  by  Aylesbury  co.  Bukingliam  and  of  all  other  his 
lands  in  that  county,  and  a  fourth  yearly  rent  of  10/.  to  be  Ukewise 
taken  of  his  manor  of  Penyton  co.  Suthampton  and  of  all  other  his 
lands  in  that  county,  and  a  iifth  yearly  rent  of  30/.  to  be  likewise  taken 
of  his  manor  of  HarnhuU  co.  Gloucester,  his  lands  in  Hembury  in 
Saltmerssh  and  of  all  other  his  lands  in  that  county,  with  power  to 
distrain  for  arrears  of  the  same,  and  whereas  on  8  December  last 
he  made  to  the  said  bishop  in  chancery  a  recognisance  for  500/.,  the 
said  bishop  hereby  grants  that  payment  as  well  of  the  said  rents  as 
of  the  said  500/.  and  liis  power  to  distrain  shall  be  suspended  until 
some  heir  of  the  said  Edmund  shall  by  judgment  recover  the  manor 
and  advowson  of  Asshe  co.  Suthampton  and  the  lands  in  Overton, 
Quydhampton,  Polhampton,  Oklee  and  Asshe  which  were  of  the 
said  Edmund  or  any  part  thereof  against  the  said  bishop  or  his  heirs 
or  against  any  other  the  tenant  or  tenants  of  the  same  or  any  part 
thereof,  or  shall  thrust  them  out  of  the  premises,  so  that  such  payment 
shall  never  hereafter  be  made  unless  some  heir  of  the  said  Edmund 
shall  so  do,  but  as  soon  as  any  such  heir  shall  so  recover  the  said  manor 
and  lands,  rents,  services  and  advowson,  or  any  part  thereof,  thrusting 
out  the  said  bishop,  his  heirs  or  any  tenant,  then  and  not  before  shall 
such  payment  be  made,  to  wit  to  the  said  bishop,  his  heirs,  executors 
and  assigns  for  ever,  and  they  shall  have  action  whatsoever  as  well  to 
sue  for  the  said  rent  and  power  to  distrain  as  for  the  said  500/.,  and 
execution  thereof.  Dated  Suthwerk,  10  December  44  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  12  December. 

Dec.  7.  William  Chandeler  of  Sydyngburn  to  Richard  de  Ravensere  clerk. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  24  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of 
liis  lands  and  chattels  in  Kent. 

Memorandum  that  this  recognisance  was  received  by  the  chancellor. 

Nov.  21.         Richard  de  Willisford  of  Welbourne  to  Robert  Josep  of  London. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  40/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Lincolnshire. 
Memorandum  {as  the  last). 

Nov.  23.         Richard  Brennehand  of  Knaresburgh  to  WiUiam  Gamboun.     Recog- 
Westminster.  nisance  for  100  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Yorkshire. 
Memorandum  {as  above). 

Dec.  12.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Lenne.  Order,  for 
Westminster,  particular  causes,  under  pain  of  forfeiture,  to  make  diligent  search 
in  the  port  of  that  town  and  in  singular  the  seaward  places  witliin  their 
bailiwick,  that  no  person  being  an  alien,  clerk,  layman,  man  of  rehgion 
or  other  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition  shall  secretly  or  openly 
bring  within  the  realm  letters,  bulls,  instruments  or  other  things  to  the 
prejudice  of  the  king  or  his  subjects  or  of  the  crown,  arresting  and 
keeping  in  safe  custody  until  further  order  all  whom  they  shaU  find 
having  or  bringing  letters  etc.  or  aught  else  which  may  be  to  the 
prejudice  or  hurt  of  the  king  or  any  of  his  subjects  or  of  the  realm, 
taking  to  them  all  letters  etc.  so  found,  and  sending  the  same  under 
their  seals  before  the  king  and  council  for  examination,  to  be  dealt 
with  as  shall  to  them  seem  good. 
[Foedera.'\ 


44  EDWARD  III. 


L'OI 


1370.  Membrane  Zd — cont. 

The  like  to  tlic  following  : 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  St.  Botolph. 

The  bailiffs  of  Grymesby. 

The  bailiffs  of  Great  Jcrnemuth. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Quenesburgh. 

The  bailiffs  of  Dovorre. 

The  bailiffs  of  Hethe. 

The  bailiff's  of  Sandwic. 

The  bailiffs  of  Wynchelse. 

The  bailiffs  of  la  Rye. 

The  bailiffs  of  Hastynges. 

The  bailiffs  of  Suthampton. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Chichcstre. 

The  bailiff's  of  Dertmuth. 

The  bailiffs  of  Plymmuth. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Exeter. 

The  bailiffs  of  Fo«y. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Bristol. 

The  bailiffs  of  Mclcombe. 

The  bailiffs  of  Bruggewauter. 

The  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Faversham. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne. 

The  bailiffs  of  Gyppewic. 

The  bailiffs  of  Portesmuth. 

Oct.  8.  To  John  Knyvet  and  his  fellows  justices  appointed  to  hold  pleas 

Westminster,  before  the  king.  Order,  if  William  de  Balton  is  put  in  exigents  to  be 
outlawed  by  process  upon  an  indictment  made  before  the  king  con- 
cerning certain  trespasses  and  evildoings  committed  in  IVIiddlesex 
and  not  at  the  suit  of  any  other  party,  to  command  a  stay  of  the 
publication  of  the  exigents  and  of  outlawry  against  liim  until  liis  return 
to  England,  or  until  further  order  ;  as  the  said  William  is  retained 
to  sail  on  the  king's  service  to  foreign  parts  in  the  company  of  Robert 
Knollcs,  and  has  sailed  upon  that  service  as  John  de  Lakynghethe 
attorney  general  of  the  said  Robert  has  by  word  of  mouth  testified 
in  chancery  ;  and  prayer  is  made  to  the  king  on  behalf  of  the  said 
William  to  see  him  harmless  wliilst  abiding  on  the  said  service,  as  at 
the  procurement  of  certain  his  enemies  he  is  put  in  exigents  in  the 
said  county  as  aforesaid,  so  being  in  foreign  parts  upon  the  king's 
service. 

Membrane  2d. 
Nov.  17.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Bristol.  Order  at  their  peril,  on  sight 
Westminster,  of  these  presents,  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  on  the  king's 
behalf  forbidding  any  man  under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof  to  put 
in  cellars,  sell  or  eloign  any  wines  brought  to  the  port  of  Bristol  before 
they  be  duly  gauged,  as  the  custom  is,  by  Alice  Englissh  to  whom  the 
king  has  granted  the  office  of  gauging  wine  there  or  by  her  deputy, 
and  if  after  such  proclamation  tliey  shaU  find  any  wine  unladed  in  the 
said  toA\'n  put  in  cellars,  sold  or  eloigned  before  being  so  gauged, 
to  cause  the  same  to  be  arrested  and  safe  kept  until  further  order, 
certifying  in  chancery  from  time  to  time  under  their  seals  the  wines 
so  arrested  and  the  value  thereof. 


202  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370.  Membrane  2d — cont. 

Nov.  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.     Order  to  cause  John  Folifayt,  wherever 

Weatrninster.  found  in  that  baiHwick,  to  be  arrested  and  imprisoned  until  he  shall 
find  security,  for  uliich  the  sheriff  will  answer,  to  sail  on  the  king's 
service  to  Ireland,  there  to  abide  according  to  his  retainer,  or  at  least 
until  he  has  contented  the  king  of  the  money  by  him  received  for  that 
cause  ;  as  the  said  John  w  as  retained  to  sail  thither  with  VViUiam 
de  \Vyndesorc  the  king's  lieutenant  in  Ireland,  and  received  of  the 
said  William  in  the  king's  name  divers  sums  of  money  for  wages,  but 
has  taken  no  heed  to  sail  thither,  in  contempt  and  deceit  of  the  king 
remaining  continually  in  Yorkshire  upon  his  own  business,  as  is 
witnessed  by  Edmund  Laurence  attorney  of  the  said  William. 

Nov.  27.  To  John  Knyvet  and  Thomas  Ingelby  justices  appointed  to  hold 
Westminster.  j)leas  before  the  king.  Order  by  writ  of  nid  prius  to  cause  an  inquisi- 
tion whereupon  William  Drenge  of  Lokyngton  has  put  himself 
concerning  divers  felonies  for  which  he  is  indicted  before  the  king 
to  be  taken  before  them  the  said  John  and  Thomas  or  before  one  of 
them.  By  K. 

The  like  writ  addressed  to  the  said  John  and  Thomas  for  William 
son  of  William  Drenge  of  Lokyngton.  By  K. 

Nov.  16.         To  the  sheriff  of  Warrewyk.     Order,  for  particular  causes,  to  stay 
Westmineter.  until   Whitsuntide  next  his  demand   made   by  exchequer  summons 
upOn  the  prior  of  Wolfrecheston  for  payment  of  certain  moneys  to 
the  king's  use,  releasing  any  distress  made. 

Oct.  8.  To   Thomas  Chaumbemoun  escheator  in  Devon.     Order   to   suffer 

Westminster.  Margaret  sister  and  one  of  the  heirs  of  Hugh  son  and  heir  of  Thomas 
de  Courtenay  knight  tenant  in  chief  to  have  the  respite  which  the 
king  has  given  her  until  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next  for  her  homage 
for  the  purparty  falling  to  her  of  the  lands  of  her  said  father  which 
came  to  the  king's  hands  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of 
the  said  Hugh,  who  died  within  age  in  the  king's  wardship,  releasing 
any  distress  made  for  that  cause. 

The  like  to  William  Cheyne  escheator  in  Somerset. 

Nov.  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order,  under  pain  of  forfeiture,  on  sight 
Westminster,  of  these  presents  forthwith  to  cease  every  excuse  and  cause  proclama- 
tion to  be  made  on  the  king's  behalf  in  singular  the  fairs,  markets, 
hundreds,  boroughs,  market  towTis  and  places  of  his  bailiwick  within 
liberties  and  without,  that  all  and  singular  of  whatsoever  estate  or 
condition  having  lands  in  that  county  and  not  dwelling  within  the  same, 
if  they  be  not  continually  abiding  upon  their  own  lands  in  any  the 
counties  of  Suthampton,  Sussex,  Dorset,  Somerset,  Devon  or  Corn- 
wall for  defence  of  the  sea  coast,  shall  under  pain  of  forfeiture  of  their 
lands,  goods  and  chattels  etc.  with  all  speed  draw  towards  their  lands 
in  Kent,  cause  their  men  and  tenants  there  to  be  arrayed  every  one 
according  to  his  estate  and  means,  and  with  them  and  all  their  house- 
hold continually  abide  in  array  in  such  pow-er  as  they  best  may,  com- 
pelling them  so  to  do  by  distraint  of  their  goods  and  chattels,  and  if 
they  have  none  by  taking  their  lands  into  the  king's  hand  and  by  what 
other  means  he  may,  so  that  they  be  there  before  the  octaves  of  the 
Purification  next  at  latest  with  their  households  there  to  abide  for 
defence  of  the  sea  coast  agamst  attacks  of  the  king's  enemies,  and  in 


44  EDWARD  III. 


203 


1370. 


1371. 
Jan.  16. 

Westminster. 


1370. 

June  11. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  2d — cont. 

the  mean  time  to  make  inquisition  concerning  the  names  of  all  and 
singular  who  having  lands  in  Kent  have  not  there  been  dwelling, 
certifying  in  chancery  before  the  octaves  aforesaid  their  names,  and 
the  quantity  and  value  of  their  lands  ;  as  the  king  has  particular 
information  by  certain  his  friends  that  his  enemies  of  France  and 
other  their  adherents  have  assembled  a  great  host  of  ships  with  men 
at  arms  and  armed  men,  purposing  as  speedily  as  they  may  therewith 
to  land  within  the  realm  of  England  and  to  wipe  away  the  king  and 
his  realm  and  all  the  English  tongue,  if  their  mahce  be  not  resisted 
with  a  strong  hand  ;  and  it  is  his  will  to  provide  against  the  hurt 
and  peril  which  by  their  attack  may  hapjien  to  him,  his  realm  and 
subjects. 
[Foedera.] 

To  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton.  Like  order  in  regard  to  those  having 
lands  in  the  county  of  Suthampton  and  not  dwelling  within  the  same, 
if  they  be  not  continually  abiding  upon  their  own  lands  in  any  the 
counties  of  Kent,  Sussex,  Dorset,  Somerset,  Devon  or  Cornwall. 

The  like  to  the  sheriffs  of  Sussex,  Dorset,  Somerset,  Devon  and 
Cornwall  respectively. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Wiltesir.  Like  order  to  make  proclamation  in 
regard  to  those  having  lands  in  the  county  of  Suthampton,  if  they 
be  not  continually  abiding  upon  their  lands  in  Kent,  Sussex,  Dorset, 
Somerset,  Devon  or  Cornwall,  that  under  pain  of  forfeiture  they  shall 
draw  to  their  said  lands  etc.  (as  above),  ready  to  march  on  the  king's 
service  towards  the  sea  coast  in  that  county  to  resist  the  king's  enemies 
if  any  shall  invade  those  parts. 

The  like  to  the  sheriff  of  Berkshire. 

The  Uke,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  the  sheriff  of  Surrey  in  regard  to 
those  having  lands  in  Sussex. 

To  the  abbot  of  Muchelney.  Request  that  he  will  grant  Thomas 
de  Maddynglee  the  king's  clerk  such  a  pension  of  his  abbey  as  shall 
befit  the  givers  and  should  bind  the  receiver  to  them,  making  the 
said  Thomas  letters  patent  under  the  chapter  seal  with  mention  of 
"what  he  shall  so  take,  and  vsTiting  again  by  the  bearer  what  he  wiU 
do  at  this  request  ;  as  the  abbot  is  by  reason  of  his  new  creation  bound 
in  a  j'early  pension  to  one  of  the  king's  clerks  at  the  king's  nomination 
until  provision  be  by  the  abbot  made  him  of  an  ecclesiastical  benefice, 
and  the  king  has  nominated  the  said  Thomas.  By  p.s.  [28610.] 

The  like  to  WiUiam  bishop  of  Cicestre  by  reason  of  liis  new  creation, 
in  favour  of  Thomas  de  Swaby  clerk.  By  p.s. 


1371.  Membrane  Id. 

Jan.  8.  To  W.  archbishop  of  Cantcrbu^^^      Summons  to   a  parliament  to 

Westminster,  be  holden  at  Westminster  on  Monday  in  the  first  week  in  Lent, 
namely  the  feast  of  St.  Matthias  next,  warning  the  prior  and 
chapter  of  Christ  Church  Canterbury,  the  archdeacons  and  clergy 
of  his  diocese  to  attend,  the  said  prior  and  archdeacons  in  person, 
the  chapter  by  one  proctor  and  the  clergy  by  two,  and  to  be  there 
on  Saturday  the  feast  of  St.  Peter's  Chains.  By  K. 

[Rep.  on  Dignity  of  a  Peer,  iv.  p.  646.] 


204  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1871,  Membrane  \d — cont. 

The  like  to  J.  archbishop  of  York,  Th.  bishop  of  Durham  and  17 
other  bishops,  of  whom  tlie  bishop  of  St.  Asaph  is  not  named,  and  to 
the  guardian  of  the  spiritualities  of  the  bishopric  of  Bangor. 

[Ibid.  p.  647.] 

To  the  abbot  of  Glastonbury.     Summons  to  the  said  parhament. 

The  like  to  the  abbot  of  St.  Augustine's  Canterbury  and  22  other 
abbots,  the  prior  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England  and  the  prior 
of  Co  ventre. 

[Ibid.] 

To  Edward  prince  of  Aquitaine  and  Wales.  Summons  to  the  said 
parliament. 

The  like  to  Richard  earl  of  Arundell  and  ten  other  earls,*  Henry 
de  Percy  and  fifty  others,  including  Roger  le  Strange  of  Blakemere. 

[Ibid.  p.  648.] 

Jan.  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.     Order  to  cause  two  knights  of  the  shire 

Westminster,  girt  with  the  sword  and  proved  in  arms  and  deeds  of  arms,  two  citizens 
of  every  city  and  two  burgesses  of  every  borough  therein  to  be  elected 
and  come  to  Westminster  on  the  Saturday  aforesaid. 
The  like  to  singular  the  sheriffs  throughout  England. 
[Ibid.] 

To  Richard  de  Pembrugge  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden 
of  the  Cinque  Ports,  or  to  his  lieutenant.  Order  to  cause  two  barons 
of  every  of  the  said  ports  to  be  elected  and  come  as  aforesaid. 

[Ibid.  p.  649.] 

To  John  Knyvet.     Summons  to  the  said  parliament. 
The  like  to  Robert  de  Thorp  and  seven  others. 
[Ibid.] 

Membrane  Id.  {bis).t 

Assignment  of  dower  of  Maud  who  was  wife  of  John  Miryot  knight  of 
the  manor  of  Castel  Carleton,  there  made  on  Tuesday  after  the  Epiphany 
44  Edward  III  by  Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  In  the 
capital  messuage  a  high  chamber  opposite  [extransverso)  the  hall  on 
the  east  side,  and  thence  from  the  south  corner  thereof  tow^ards  the 
hall  to  the  Little  stable,  with  that  stable  and  a  third  part  of 
the  said  messuage  towards  the  east,  with  all  houses  situated  in  that 
portion,  a  part  of  the  grange  towards  the  east  and  of  the  court 
thereof  up  to  the  mete  there  set  by  common  consent,  with  all  the  water 
and  the  ditch  and  all  manner  of  profits  thereof  from  a  postern  on  the 
east  side  of  the  said  chamber  between  the  chamber  and  the  kitchen 
as  far  as  the  draw  bridge  of  the  manor,  and  a  moat  which  is  within 
the  said  water  on  the  east  side,  with  free  ingress  and  egress  at  all 
times  for  all  her  needful  purposes  through  the  midst  of  the  gate  and  over 
the  draAvbridge  at  her  will  and  the  will  of  all  her  people  and  of  others 
coming  over  to  her,  as  the  third  part  of  the  said  capital  messuage  ; 
two  small  fishponds,  one  lying  by  the  '  Crewker  '  on  the  south  side, 

*  One  line  is  erased  in  the  record  between  the  names  of  the  Earl  of  Warrewyk 
and  the  Earl  of  Stafford. 

t  This  membrane  which  has  writing  only  on  the  back,  has  been  transferred 
from  the  roll  of  the  ■I'Znd  year. 


44  EDWARD  III.  206 


1371.  Membrane  Id  {bis) — cont. 

the  other  on  the  east  side  of  the  first,  with  free  ingress  and  egress  to 
tlie  same,  as  the  third  part  of  a  great  fishpond  ;  one  half  acre  and  the 
third  part  of  one  half  acre  of  land  and  the  third  part  of  a  house  there- 
upon situated  at  tlie  '  Fenhouses  '  called  the  '  Skypengarth  '  upon 
the  north  side,  according  to  metes  and  bounds  there  set,  as  the  third 
part  of  that  messuage  ;  five  tofts,  one  lying  on  the  north  side  of  the 
town  of  Castel  Carleton  sometime  of  John  de  Arderno,  and  four  on  the 
south  side  of  the  town,  as  the  third  part  of  fifteen  tofts  ;  6  acres  of 
arable  land  on  the  south  side  of  '  Appelgarthwonges,'  14  acres  of 
arable  land  on  the  south  side  of  a  cultura  lying  above  the  '  Appegarth- 
wonges,'  20  acres  of  arable  land  on  the  south  side  of  the  '  Morwonges,' 
60  acres  of  arable  land  lying  on  the  south  side  of  the  '  Wodewonges  ' 
and  the  '  Street wonges,'  5  acres  1  rood  of  arable  land  lying  on  the  east 
side  of  a  cultura  called  the  '  Wilghisliill,'  20  acres  of  arable  land  lying 
by  the  said  '  Skypengarth  '  on  the  west  side,  10  acres  of  arable  land 
in  the  said  cultura  on  the  east  side  of  land  of- the  parson  of  Great 
Carleton,  10  acres  of  land  lying  on  the  west  side  of  a  cultura  called  the 
'  Southwonges  '  according  to  metes  and  bounds  there  set,  as  the  third 
part  of  435i  acres  1  rood  of  arable  land  ;  one  piece  of  meadow  called 
the  '  Fenforth . . . '  containing  54  acres,  95  acres  of  meadow  in  the 
'  Outfen  '  Ijang  on  the  south  side  of  the  '  Northdyke,'  19  acres  1|  rood 
of  meadow  lying  on  the  east  side  of  the  '  Thakgayre,'  8-J-  acres  of 
meadow  lying  on  the  west  side  of  the  '  Westfen  '  according  to  metes 
and  bounds  therein  set,  as  the  third  part  of  529^  acres  1^  rood  of 
meadow  ;  one  piece  of  several  pasture  called  '  Muryetcroft '  with 
the  dikes  enclosing  the  same  containing  10  acres,  one  piece  of 
several  pasture  called  '  Bariecroft '  containing  16  acres  with  the  dike, 
7  acres  of  several  pasture  on  the  east  side  of  a  pasture  called  the 
'  Crewker,'  and  one  piece  of  pasture  called  '  Haygarth  '  containing 
1  acre,  as  the  third  part  of  102  acres  of  several  pasture  ;  a  third  part 
of  a  windmill  and  of  the  profits  thereof  arising  ;  a  third  part  of  the 
fair  held  in  Castel  Carleton  on  the  feast  of  the  Exaltation  of  Holy  Cross, 
and  of  the  profits  thereof  arising  ;  a  third  part  of  the  perquisites  of 
court  and  of  all  manner  of  profits  thereto  belonging  ;  40|  acres  of  wood, 
whereof  31 J  acres  lie  on  the  east  side  of  a  piece  of  wood  called  the 
'  Estwode,'  and  9  acres  in  the  south  corner  of  the  '  Westwode,'  with  the 
dikes  enclosing  those  9  acres,  and  a  piece  of  ground  called  the  '  Appelgarth' 
with  a  kiln  house  (ioralc)  thereupon  built  included  in  the  measure  of  the 
said  9  acres,  as  the  third  part  of  121 1  acres  of  wood  to  the  said  manor 
pertaining  ;  4d.  of  the  chevage  of  grooms,  to  be  taken  of  Robert 
Pertout,  Richard  Pcrtout,  Erneys  Douce  and  Joan  daughter  {Johanne 
filie)  of  William  Ernys  at  Michaelmas,  as  the  third  part  of  l'2d.  of 
chevage ;  30s.  9^d.  and  lib.  of  pepper  of  the  rent  of  free  tenants  to  be 
taken  at  Martinmas,  Christmas,  Easter,  St.  Botolph  and  Michaelmas, 
namely  of  Robert  de  Val  7s.  O^d.,  of  Robert  Douce  12s.,  of  William  Fish 
2s.  6c?.,  of  Lucy  Crecy  2s.  Qd.,  of  Philip  son  of  Robert  Pormort  2s.  6c?., 
of  Gilbert  the  carpenter  1/6.  of  pepper  or  12f/.,  of  William  atte  Fen  18d., 
of  Richard  Walssh  2s.  6c?.,  of  John  Chapman  9(Z.,  as  the  third  part  of 
4?.  14s.  Uc?.  1  lb.  of  pepper  price  12c?.  and  2lb.  of  cumin  price  3c/.  ; 
one  toft  called  '  Doggetoft '  in  allowance  for  the  third  part  of  the 
profit  of  free  bull  and  free  boar,  of  one  sparrowhawk  and  one  pair  of 
gilt  spurs  ;  10c?.  of  rent  to  be  taken  at  Christmas,  Easter,  St.  Botolph 
and  Rlichaelmas  of  William  son  of  Thomas  atte  Mergate  as  the  third 
part  of  2s.  6c?.  wliich  he  renders  for  one  toft  which  he  holds  in  bondage  ; 


206  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  Id  (bis) — cont. 

a  third  part  of  the  profit  of  tlie  agistment  of  sheep  upon  the  common 
pasture  there,  which  agistment  is  called  '  faldesokene,'  taking  what 
shall  come  in  future  years  since  it  may  not  be  extended  at  a  set  price  ; 
61.  \3s.  5d.  of  the  rent  of  neifs'  lands  to  be  taken  at  Martinmas,  Christ- 
mas, St.  Botolph  and  Michaelmas,  namely  of  John  Hede  55.  5d.,  of 
William  Shirwode  \(),s.,  of  John  de  Clygby  326-.,  of  Herbert  de  Clygby 
32s.,  of  William  Gray  herd  16s.,  and  of  Walter  Oustyn  32*.,  as  the 
third  part  of  20/.  3(/.,  four  hens  as  the  third  part  of  11 1  hens,  and 
25  eggs  as  the  third  part  of  75  eggs  ;  3^  (sic)  works  of  harrowing  at 
winter  seed  time  as  the  third  part  of  11  works,  3^  works  as  the  third 
part  of  11  works  at  Lent  seed  time,  17^  works  of  hoeing  as  the  third 
part  of  52|  works,  63  autumn  works  in  reaping  com  as  the  third  part 
of  nine  score  and  nine  works,  towards  the  lady's  food  towards  one 
repast  or  whatsoever  she  shall  have  Id.,  and  27J  works  of  carting 
com  in  autumn  as  the  third  part  of  fourscore  and  two  works. 


I 


(  207  ) 


J.")  EDWARD  III. 


1371, 


Membrane  41, 


Jan.  31.  To  the  customers  in  the  port  of  London  for  the  time  being.     Order 

Westminster  and  charge  to  suffer  Richard  earl  of  Arondell  and  Surreye  and  his 

Palace.        deputies  to  levy  by  indenture  and  have  of  every  sack  of  wool  laded 

in  the  said  port  2i  marks  until  he  shall  be  contented  of  5,000  marks 

and  of  so  much  as  remains  to  be  paid  of  other  great  sums  to  him  due 

from  the  king  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will  and  pleasure  that  as  greater 

security  for  payment  thereof  one  part  of  the  cocket  seal  shall  remain 

with  the  said  earl  or  his  deputies  as  now  it  is,  and  the  king  expressly 

forbids  any   wool   [sealed]   with  the  other  part  remaining  with  the 

customers  and  not  with  that  part  also  to  be  laded  in  the  said  port 

or  to  pass  out  of  the  same  until  the  said  earl  be  fully  contented  ;  as 

the  king  is  bound  to  the  said  earl  in  5,000  marks  received  as  a  prest 

and  payable  of  the  subsidies  and  customs  upon  wool  laded  in  the 

said  port.     French. 

Et  erat  patens. 

Feb.  2.  To  the  prioress  of  Foss  by  Torkeseye  for  the  time  being.     Writ 

Westminster,  de  intendendo  in  favour  of  John  de  Salesbury  and  his  heirs,  directing 
her  to  pay  to  the  said  John  every  year  465.  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas 
by  even  portions  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent  of  1  December 
last,  of  his  favour  granting  to  the  said  John  and  his  heirs,  for  his 
good  service,  that  yearly  sum  which  the  said  prioress  and  the  convent 
are  bound  to  render  for  the  site  of  the  priory  and  for  seven  tofts, 
120  acres  of  land  and  meadow  in  the  town  of  Torkeseye  to  them 
formerly  granted  by  the  king's  forefathers.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  2.  To  the  prior  of  Torkeseye  for  the  time  being.     Like  wTit,  directing 

Westminster,  him  to  pay  to  John  de  Salesbury  and  his  heirs  every  year  \0l.  at  Easter 
and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  according  to  the  king's  letters 
patent  of  1  December  last,  of  his  favour  granting  to  the  said  John 
and  his  heirs  that  yearly  sum  which  the  said  prior  and  the  convent 
are  bound  to  render  for  the  site  of  the  priory  and  for  fifty  tofts,  498 
acres  of  land  and  meadow  in  Torkeseye  to  them  formerly  granted  by 
the  king's  forefathers.  By  p.s. 

Feb.  6.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  chamberlains  of  the  exchequer  for  the 

Westminster,  time  being.  Order  to  allow  the  sheriff  of  Salop  in  his  account  at  the 
exchequer  so  much  as  they  may  be  assured  that  he  has  by  virtue  of 
the  king's  command  paid  to  John  de  Beauchamp  the  king's  esquire  ; 
as  on  15  January  in  the  43rd  year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  letters 
patent  granted  to  the  said  John  the  ward  of  his  castle  of  Bruggenorth 
for  Ufe,  taking  of  the  issues  of  the  said  county  Qd.  a  day  for  liis  wages 
by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  for  the  time  being  as  Leo  de  Perton  used 
to  do,  and  commanded  the  sheriff  to  pay  the  same,  taking  the  said 
John's  acquittance  for  every  payment. 

Feb.  10.  To    Richard    de    Wydeville    late    escheator    in    Norhamptonshire. 

Westminster.  Order,  if  one  carucate  of  land  in  Blacolnesle  is  in  the  king's  hand 

for  the  cause  hereinafter  mentioned  and  for  none  other,  to  remove 

the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  therewith  ;  as  lately  the 

king  ordered  the  said  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the    cause 


208  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  41 — cont. 

wherefore  a  carucatc  of  land  there  of  Richard  de  Piriton  clerk,  Robert 
de  Hyworth  parson  of  Eydon  and  William  Barfot  vicar  of  Assheby 
in  the  Wodende  was  by  him  taken  into  the  king'.s  hand,  and  he  signified 
that  he  so  took  one  carucate  of  land  in  the  Wodende  in  the  parish  of 
Blacolnesle  for  that  it  was  before  him  found,  by  inquisition  taken  of 
his  office,  that  William  Mayheu  two  years  ago  without  the  king's 
licence  thereof  enfeoffed  the  said  Richard,  Robert  and  William  Barfot 
to  the  use  of  the  prior  and  convent  of  Assheby  ;  and  the  king  reckons 
that  cause  insufficient. 

Feb.  10.  To  William  Banastre  escheator  in  Salop.  Order  to  take  the  fealty 
Westminster,  of  Richard  Harnage  according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed, 
and  to  cause  the  said  Richard  and  Katherine  his  wife  to  have  seisin 
of  the  purparty  falling  to  her  of  the  manor  of  Sheynton,  saving  to  the 
king  her  marriage  or  the  forfeiture  thereof  if  the  same  ought  to  pertain 
to  him  ;  as  on  28  October  in  the  41st  year  of  his  reign  on  the  finding 
of  an  inquisition,  taken  by  Philip  de  Lutteleye  late  escheator,  that 
William  de  Sheynton  clerk  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county 
in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  manor  of  the  heir 
of  Roger  de  Mortuo  Mari  earl  of  March  tenant  in  chief,  a  minor  in 
the  king's  wardship,  by  homage  and  fealty  and  by  the  service  of  one 
knight's  fee,  and  that  Hawise  sister  of  the  said  William,  Alan  son  of 
Joan  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  le  Botiller  the  second  sister,  and 
Katherine  daughter  of  Hugh  le  Child  son  of  Margaret  the  third  sister 
are  his  next  heirs,  the  said  Hawise  being  of  full  age  and  the  said  Alan 
and  Katherine  within  age,  the  king  ordered  the  late  escheator  to  take 
the  fealty  of  the  said  William  (sic),  to  take  of  the  said  Hawise  security 
for  payment  of  her  relief  at  the  exchequer,  in  presence  of  the  heirs 
and  parceners,  if  being  warned  they  would  attend,  to  make  a  partition 
of  the  said  manor  into  three  parts,  and  to  cause  the  said  Hawise  to  have 
seisin  of  her  purparty,  keeping  in  the  king's  hand  until  further  order 
the  purparties  of  the  said  Alan  and  Katherine  ;  and  the  said  Katherine, 
whom  the  said  Richard  has  taken  to  wife,  has  now  proved  her  age 
before  the  escheator. 

Feb   14.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.     Order,  for  particular  causes,  on  sight  of 

Westminster,  these  presents  forthwith  of  the  issues  of  his  bailiwick  to  cause  1,000 
sheaves  of  arrows,  over  and  above  those  which  the  king  lately 
commanded  him  to  purvey  to  his  use,  to  be  made  and  purveyed  in  his 
bailiwick,  within  liberties,  and  without,  of  good  and  seasoned  wood 
and  not  of  green  wood  as  he  will  answer  it  before  the  king  himself, 
and  to  cause  those  so  to  be  newly  made  as  those  formerly  commanded 
which  are  in  arrear  to  be  made  ready  with  steel  heads  and  come  to 
the  Tower  of  London  before  the  quinzaine  of  Trinity  next,  there  to 
be  delivered  by  indenture  to  John  de  Sleford  the  king's  clerk,  keeper 
of  his  wardrobe  in  the  Tower,  any  assignments  of  payments  whatsoever 
to  be  made  given  by  letters  patent,  writs  of  the  great  or  privy  seal, 
tallies,  letters  of  the  treasurer  or  otherwise  notwithstanding,  knowing 
assuredly  that  if  all  those  arrows  be  not  made  of  seasoned  wood  and 
be  not  brought  to  the  Tower  by  the  date  assigned,  the  king  will  cause 
the  sheriff's  lands,  goods  and  chattels  to  be  seized  into  his  hand,  and 
the  arrows  to  be  bought  and  purveyed  of  the  issues  thereof,  and  will 
further  cause  him  so  to  be  punished  that  his  punishment  shall  be  a 
terror  to  others  negh gently  executing  the  king's  commands.  By  K. 
[Feed  era.] 


45    EDWARD    III. 


209 


1371. 


Membrane  41 — cont. 


The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  sheriff  of  Kent,  for  GOO  sheaves. 

The  sheriff  of  Surrey  and  Sussex  for  1,000. 

The  sheriff  of  Lincoln  for  1,000. 

The  sheriff  of  Notingham  and  Derby  for  1,000. 

The  sheriff  of  Northampton  for  600. 

The  sheriff  of  Suthampton  for  600. 

The  sheriff  of  Stafford  for  600. 

The  sheriff  of  Hereford  for  1,000. 

The  sheriff  of  Essex  for  600. 

The  sheriff  of  Salop  for  600. 

The  sheriff  of  Worcester  for  600. 

The  sheriff  of  Gloucester  for  600. 

The  sheriff  of  Somerset  and  Dorset  for  1,000. 

The  sheriff  of  Warrewyk  for  600. 

The  sheriffs  of  London  for  2,000. 

The  sheriff  of  Norffolk  and  Suffolk  for  1,000. 

The  sheriff  of  Oxford  for  600. 

The  sheriff  of  Wiltesir  for  600. 

The  sheriff  of  Bedford  and  Bukingham  for  1,000. 

The  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge  for  400. 
[Ibid.] 

Feb.  16.  To  William  Martlesham  seaman.  Order  to  cause  one  of  the  two 
Westminster,  cocche  or  tarits  {cochas  sive  taritas)  of  Genoa  (Janua)  wliich  were  last 
summer  taken  at  sea  and  are  in  the  port  and  river  Thames,  whereof 
Albert  Squarzaficus  is  owner  (patronus),  to  be  safely  brought  and  piloted 
out  to  sea  from  the  said  port  and  river  beyond  the  district  and  danger 
{dangerium)  of  the  river  mouth,  whence  it  may  sail  whither  it  will, 
with  the  persons,  merchandise,  goods  and  property  therein,  provided 
that  the  said  William  shall  forthwith  return  to  the  city  of  London  ; 
as  of  his  royal  bounty  the  king  with  the  assent  of  the  council  has 
caused  the  said  cocche  or  tarits  to  be  given  up  to  the  Genoese  from 
whom  they  were  taken. 

Membrane  40. 

Feb.  14.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.  Order  to  cause  Thomas  de  Roos  of  Hamelak 
Westminster,  to  have  seisin  of  two  messuages  and  one  bovate  of  land  in  Oswaldkirk 
held  by  Robert  Merl^Tig  hanged  for  felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  sheriff,  that  the  premises  have 
been  in  his  hand  a  year  and  a  day  and  more,  that  the  said  Robert 
held  them  of  the  said  Thomas,  and  that  William  Petyt  had  the  year 
and  a  day  and  the  waste  thereof,  and  ought  to  answer  to  the  king 
for  the  same. 


Feb.  12.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order,  upon 
Westminster,  the  petition  of  Master  John  de  Bolton  chamberlain  of  Berewic  upon 
Twede,  to  cause  inquisition  to  be  made  by  true  men  of  the  town  of 
Berewyc  and  the  parts  adjacent  what  burgages  and  pieces  of  ground 
in  the  said  town  and  the  bailiwick  of  the  chamberlainship  were  void,  cast 
dowTi,  abandoned  and  occupied  by  the  Scots  since  the  said  John  has  been 
chamberlain,  whereof  he  might  not  levy  farms  or  any  issues,  and  to 
discharge  him  in  his  account  at  the  exchequer  of  all  issues  and  farms 
of  him  demanded  which  for   the  cause  aforesaid  he  might  not  and 

P«  H 


210  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1871.  Membrane  40 — cont. 

may  not  levy  ;  as  the  said  Jolin  has  shewn  the  king  that  he  is  ready 
to  account  and  to  answer  to  the  king  for  all  such  issues  and  farms 
which  he  might  levy,  that  there  are  great  number  of  biirgages,  houses 
and  pieces  of  land  in  the  said  town  and  bailiwick  all  the  time  he  has 
been  chamberlain,  some  void  and  abandoned  for  lack  of  tenants, 
some  destroyed  by  the  Scots  the  king's  enemies,  and  some  occupied 
by  them,  wherefore  he  might  make  no  levy  of  the  issues  or  farms  thereof, 
and  that  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  without  regard  to  the  premises 
are  purposing  unlawfully  to  compel  him  to  answer  for  the  issues  and 
farms  thereof,  wherefore  he  has  prayed  for  remedy. 

Feb.  12.  To  John  de  Bisshopeston  escheator  in  Kent.  Order  to  remove  the 
Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  60  acres  of  land,  22  acres 
of  wood,  12^.  of  rent  and  a  rent  of  12  hens  and  120  eggs  in  Mapeles- 
combe  and  the  advowson  of  the  church,  saving  to  the  king  the  issues 
thereof  taken  since  the  death  of  John  de  Mereworth  knight  tenant 
in  chief  ;  as  lately  the  king  ordered  John  de  Tye  late  escheator  to 
certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  the  lands  of  the  said  deceased 
in  Mapelescombe  and  the  said  advowson  were  by  him  taken  into  the 
king's  hand,  and  he  returned  that  he  so  took  the  premises  for  that 
he  found  by  inquisition,  before  him  taken  at  the  king's  command, 
that  at  his  death  the  said  deceased  held  the  same  in  chief  in  his  demesne 
as  of  fee  ;  and  after  at  the  suit  of  Henry  son  of  John  Malemayns, 
cousin  and  heir  of  the  deceased,  averring  that  the  premises  are  held 
of  the  heirs  of  Robert  de  Northwode  knight  by  the  service  of  the  fourth 
part  of  one  knight's  fee,  and  the  service  of  paying  to  the  said  heirs 
25.  2d.  every  24th  week  to  the  ward  of  Dovorre  castle,  and  not  of  the 
king,  and  offering  to  prove  that  this  is  so,  the  king  sent  the  whole 
business  to  be  before  him  debated  ;  and  it  is  found  by  inquisition 
between  the  king  and  the  said  Henry,  taken  before  the  king,  that  the 
premises  are  held  of  WiUiam  Beaufey  and  Agnes  his  wife,  John  Lenedale 
and  Joan  his  wife  in  right  of  the  said  Agnes  and  Joan  daughters  and 
heirs  of  Robert  de  Northwode  as  of  their  manor  of  Northcreye,  and 
not  of  the  king  as  was  by  the  certificate  supposed,  and  that  the  said 
Henry  is  cousin  and  heir  of  the  said  deceased,  namely  son  of  John 
son  of  Eleanor  his  sister. 

Feb.  1.  To  the  collectors  of  the  custom  and  subsidy  upon  wool,  hides  and 

Westminster,  woolfells  in  the  port  of  the  city  of  London,  and  to  the  controller  in  the 
said  port.  Order  to  deliver  to  John  Bernes  mayor  of  the  said  city, 
Adam  Fraunceys,  William  Walworth,  John  Piel  aldermen,  John  de 
Cantebrigge  chamberlain,  Hugh  Holbech,  John  Philippot  and  John 
Fyfhide  citizens,  or  to  their  deputies,  one  foil  of  the  cocket,  and  to 
suffer  them  during  the  term  hereinafter  mentioned  to  take  and  have 
of  the  said  customs  and  subsidies  the  sum  of  4,Q0ll.  13s.  Ad.,  taking 
their  acquittance  ;  as  by  letters  patent  the  king  has  granted  to  the 
said  mayor  and  others  above  named  and  to  other  the  citizens  that 
they  shall  by  themselves  or  their  deputies  without  gainsaying  take 
of  the  customs  and  subsidies  due  to  the  king  upon  wool,  hides  and 
woolfells  in  that  port  taken  over  seas,  of  every  sack  of  wool  165.  Sof. 
of  natives  and  20s.  of  aliens,  of  every  last  of  hides  335.  4td.  of  natives 
and  405.  of  aliens,  of  every  240  w^oolfells  I65.  9>d.  of  natives  and  205.  of 
aliens  by  indenture  to  be  made  between  the  said  collectors  and  con- 
troller and  them  from  time  to  time  witnessing  the  sums  so  received,  until 
4,601Z.  135.  4(Z.  by  them  advanced  to  the  king  for  furtherance  of  the 


45    EDWARD    Til.  211 


1371.  Membrane  40 — cont. 

war  and  for  other  particular  causes  shall  be  fully  levied  ;  and  for 
greater  security  the  king  has  willed  that  the  said  mayor  and  the  others 
named  or  their  deputies  shall  have  in  their  hands  the  foil  aforesaid 
closed  up  under  the  seals  of  the  said  collectors  and  controller,  and  that 
during  the  said  term  no  wool,  hides  or  woolfells  shall  pass  from  the 
said  port  without  being  sealed  with  botii  foils  of  the  said  cocket, 
provided  always  that  as  soon  as  the  said  sum  shall  so  be  levied,  the 
said  foil  in  their  custody  shall  be  delivered  to  the  treasurer  and  the 
chamberlains,  and  the  said  letters  patent  shall  be  given  up  to  them 
to  be  cancelled, 

Feb.  16.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  account 

Westminster,  with  John  de  Bolton  the  king's  clerk,  chamberlain  of  Berewic  upon 
Twede,  concerning  all  costs  and  expenses  by  him  laid  out  all  the  time 
he  has  been  chamberlain  upon  the  repair  as  well  of  the  king's  tenements 
in  that  town  as  of  the  walls,  brattices,  gates  and  bridges  thereof, 
allowing  him  in  his  account  at  the  exchequer  so  much  as  by  his  oath 
they  may  be  assured  that  he  has  so  laid  out. 

Feb.  20.  To  the  farmer  or  keeper  or  the  bailiff  of  the  king's  manor  of  Odyham 
Westminster,  for  the  time  being.  Order  of  the  issues  of  the  said  manor  henceforth 
to  pay  to  William  Prest  2d.  a  day  for  keeping  the  park  and  Id.  a 
day  for  keeping  tlie  warren  of  Odyham,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as 
for  his  long  and  praiseworthy  service  to  her  Queen  Philippa  granted  to 
the  said  William  for  life  the  keeping  of  the  said  park  and  warren 
taking  the  said  sums  for  his  wages  by  the  hands  of  the  farmers,  bailiffs 
or  approwers  of  her  manor  there,  or  of  other  her  ministers  for  the 
time  being ;  and  on  26  February  in  the  44th  year  of  his  reign  the  king 
by  letters  patent  confirmed  her  grant  to  the  said  William  for  his  life, 
further  granting  that  he  should  have  his  wages  as  aforesaid  howsoever 
the  said  manor,  park  and  warren  are  come  to  the  king's  hands  by  her 
death. 

Et  erat  patens. 

Feb.  14.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order,  upon  the 

Westminster,  petition  of  William  de  la  Vale  late  chamberlain  of  Berewic  upon 
Twede,  to  cause  inquisition  to  be  made  what  burgages,  houses  and 
pieces  of  land  in  that  town  and  in  the  bailiwick  of  the  chamberlainship 
were  void,  cast  down,  abandoned  and  occupied  by  the  Scots 
while  he  was  chamberlain,  discharging  him  at  the  exchequer  of  all 
issues  and  farms  which  he  might  not  levy  for  that  cause  etc. 
{as  above,  p.  209). 

Membrane  39. 

Feb.  21.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  and  to  the 
Westminster,  chamberlains.  Order  to  account  with  Master  John  de  Bolton  the 
king's  clerk,  chamberlain  of  Berewic  upon  Twede,  concerning  all 
costs  and  expenses  by  him  incurred  in  regard  to  the  reception  and 
conveyance  from  that  town  to  the  city  of  London  of  4,000  marks  of 
the  ransom  of  David  de  Bruys  of  Scotland  paid  in  the  43rd  year  of  the 
reign,  and  of  1,000  marks  of  the  said  ransom  paid  in  the  44th  year, 
also  in  regard  to  the  chamberlainship  of  the  said  town  at  divers  times 
in  the  42nd,  43rd  and  44th  years,  the  march  days  of  the  march  of 
Scotland,  and  divers  other  charges  in  respect  of  his  said  oflfice,  causing 


212  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  39 — cont. 

him  to  have  payment  of  the  treasury  or  an  assignment  of  the  issues 
of  his  said  office  for  so  much  as  by  his  oath  they  may  be  assured  that 
he  has  laid  out  as  aforesaid. 

Feb.  24.  To   John   Waleys,   William   Neudegate     sheriff   of   Sussex,    Roger 

Westminster.  Dalynrugge,  John  Leg,  John  de  Clyfton  and  Thomas  de  Grymesby, 
appointed  by  the  king  to  buy  and  purvey  com  for  furnishing  the  town 
of  Calais,  and  to  every  of  them.  Order  not  to  meddle  by  virtue  of 
the  king's  said  commission  in  taking,  buying  or  purveying  to  the 
king's  use  any  corn  in  the  fee  of  the  church  of  the  prior  and  convent 
of  Merton  or  of  any  other  ecclesiastical  persons  ;  as  lately  the  king 
by  letters  patent  appointed  them  jointly  and  severally  to  purvey 
to  his  use  500  quarters  of  wheat  in  Sussex  within  liberties  and  without 
for  prompt  payment  of  his  money,  to  hire  threshers  and  winnowers 
of  corn  to  thresh  and  wirmow  the  same,  and  to  carry  the  same  to 
the  nearest  place  on  the  coast  where  it  should  be  purveyed,  taking 
carriage  for  the  same  thither  by  land  and  water  without  the  fee  of  the 
church,  and  to  fulfil  other  matters  in  their  commission  contained  ;  but 
it  is  not  his  will,  nor  was  it  his  intent  that  by  colour  thereof  they 
or  any  of  them  or  any  their  deputy  shall  take  aught  in  the  fee  of  the 
church. 

Feb.  26.  To  the  keeper  of  the  king's  chace  of  Kyngeswode  for  the  time 
Westminster!  being,  or  to  his  representative  there.  Order  to  cease  from  hindering 
Edmund  son  of  Hugh  Blount,  cousin  and  heir  of  Edmund  Blount 
lord  of  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Button  within  the  said  chace,  from 
having  the  profit  of  his  woods,  gorse  and  sea  coals  upon  his  own  soil  within 
his  said  lordship,  suffering  him  freely  to  have  such  profit  without 
demand  for  chiminage  or  other  let  whatsoever  as  he  ought  to  do, 
and  as  he  and  his  ancestors  lords  of  that  moiety  were  wont  to  do  here- 
tofore ;  as  on  behalf  of  the  said  Edmund  son  of  Hugh  it  is  shewn  the 
king  that,  though  he  and  all  his  ancestors  aforesaid  time  out  of  mind, 
as  well  while  the  said  chace  was  in  the  hand  of  Queen  PhiHppa  as  of 
other  lords,  used  to  have,  sell  and  carry  away  at  will  their  woods, 
gorse  and  sea  coals  upon  their  own  soil,  making  their  profit  thereof 
without  payment  or  performance  of  chiminage  or  other  custom 
w^hatsoever,  the  said  keeper  is  newly  purposing  to  hinder  him  from 
so  doing  unless  he  shall  pay  chiminage  upon  the  same,  wherefore  he 
has  prayed  for  remedy  ;  and  by  certificate  of  the  auditors  of  the  said 
queen's  accounts,  sent  into  chancery  at  the  king's  command  in  the 
42nd  year  of  his  reign,  it  is  found  that  search  being  made  of  the  rolls 
of  accounts  of  her  ministers  in  her  lordship  of  Bristol  and  in  the  said 
chace  it  is  not  found  that  answ^er  was  made  to  her  for  any  profit  of 
chiminage  therein  by  the  keepers  or  other  ministers  of  the  chace. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Feb.  26.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  stay 
Westminster,  their  demand  made  by  exchequer  summons  upon  the  bailiffs  and 
burgesses  of  Portesmuth  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  farm  of  that 
towTi  which  they  are  bound  to  render  at  the  exchequer  for  the  last 
two  years,  discharging  them  thereof  ;  as  the  king  has  pardoned  them 
that  farm  in  consideration  of  the  hurt,  destruction  and  loss  they  have 
heretofore  suffered  by  attacks  of  his  enemies  and  by  burnings  of  the 
town. 


45   EDWARD    III. 


213 


1371. 


Membrane  39 — cord. 


March  2.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Sutharapton.  Order, 
Weatininstor.  upon  the  petition  of  Nicholas  de  la  More,  William  Scallir  and  John 
.  Broun,  to  view  divers  letters  of  cocket  in  their  hands,  and  if  assured 
that  certain  hides  of  theirs  were  counted  and  cocketed  in  Ireland, 
and  that  the  customs  thereupon  due  were  paid  to  the  collectors  there, 
to  suffer  them  by  themselves  or  their  servants  without  let  again  to 
lade  the  same  in  ships  in  the  said  port,  and  without  a  second  payment 
of  custom  or  subsidy  to  take  the  same  to  Calais  ;  as  their  petition  shews 
that  the  said  Nicholas  bought  in  Ireland  four  lasts  six  dakers  and 
two  hides  as  well  of  hide  as  of  '  kyppys  '  of  salted  hides,  and  nine  dakers 
and  four  hides  securely  placed  in  five  tuns  and  two  pipes,  the  said 
William  one  last  six  dakers  of  salted  hides  as  well  of  hides  as  of 
'  kyppys,'  and  eight  hides  securely  placed  in  one  pipe,  and  the  said 
John  three  lasts  nine  dakers  and  six  hides,  and  there  put  them  in 
certain  ships  to  be  taken  to  Calais  to  make  their  advantage  thereof, 
and  that  though  the  same  were  numbered  and  cocketed  in  the  port 
of  Cork  in  Ireland,  and  the  custom  thereupon  due  was  truly  paid 
to  the  collectors  there,  as  by  the  said  letters  of  cocket  [appears],  the 
collectors  at  Suthampton  are  hindering  the  said  Nicholas,  William 
and  John  from  taking  the  same  to  Calais  without  paying  anew  the 
custom  and  subsidy  thereupon,  as  though  they  were  not  already 
cocketed  and  customed,  for  that  the  said  ships  were  in  that  port 
arrested  for  the  king's  service  and  the  said  hides  were  there  put  ashore, 
wherefore  they  have  prayed  for  remedy.  Proviso  that  no  hides  of 
the  growth  of  England  shall  by  colour  of  tliis  command  be  exported 
with  those  liides. 

Feb.  20.  To  the  sheriff  of  Dorset.  Order  to  cause  Edmund  de  Mortuo  Mari 
Westminster,  earl  of  March  and  Philippa  his  wife  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage  and 
appurtenances  in  Warham  held  by  Robert  Fergaunt  hanged  for 
felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
sheriff,  that  the  premises  have  been  in  the  king's  hand  a  year  and  a 
day  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  that  the  said  Robert  held  them  of  the 
said  earl  and  Philippa  in  right  of  Philippa,  and  that  John  atte  Hale 
late  sheriff  had  the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste  thereof,  and  ought  to 
answer  to  the  king  for  the  same. 

March  4.  To  the  collectors  of  the  petty  custom  in  the  port  of  London  and  the 
Westminster,  controller  thereof  in  that  port.  Order,  if  20  cloths  of  John  de  Pountpere 
merchant  of  Valence  are  of  the  cloths  taken  in  two  cocche  or  tarits  {cochis 
sive  taritis)  of  Genoa  [Janua),  and  if  they  are  arrested  in  the  said  port  for 
payment  of  custom  and  for  no  other  cause,  to  dearrest  the  same  with- 
out delay,  suffering  the  said  John  to  lade  them  in  ships  and  without 
payment  of  custom  to  take  them  whither  he  will ;  as  lately  of  his  favour, 
by  counsel  of  the  prelates,  princes,  lords  and  wise  men  of  his  council, 
the  king  took  order  that  a  ship  called  '  la  Beyard  '  otherwise  '  Seinte 
Marie  Magdalene  '  and  the  said  two  cocche  or  tarits,  lately  taken  at 
sea  and  brought  within  the  king's  realm  and  power,  and  the  goods 
and  merchandise  therein  at  the  time  of  their  capture,  should  be  given 
up  to  Pascalotus  Usus  Maris  citizen  of  Genoa  as  proctor  and  syndic 
of  the  doge  and  of  the  commonalty  and  distrettuali  {districtualium) 
of  Genoa  specially  despatched  to  the  king's  presence  on  behalf  of  the 
said  doge  and  commonalty  for  the  purpose  ;  and  now  the  king  is 
informed  that  the  said  cloths  have  been  taken  out  of  the  said  ships 
and  brought  to  the  city  of  London,  and  are  arrested  in  the  said  port 


214  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  39 — cont. 

for  the  custom  which  the  collectors  are  demanding  to  the  king's  use  ; 
and  the  king's  will  is  to  deal  amicably  with  the  Genoese  and  observe 
the  said  ortQnance. 

March  3.  To  John  Froille  escheator  in  the  county  of  Suthampton  and  Wiltesir. 
Westminster.  Order  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of  Sharpryxsh  by 
Lemyngton,  of  Southshorewell  in  the  Isle  of  Wight  and  of  Chuyt 
CO.  Wiltesir  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  de  Lisle 
knight,  delivering  to  Maud  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken ;  as 
the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
said  John  at  his  death  held  those  manors  as  jointly  enfeoffed  with  the 
said  Maud  by  reason  of  a  gift  by  Walter  Note  clerk  and  Philip  Upton 
made  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  the  same  are 
held  of  others  than  the  king. 

March  3.         To  Simon  Warde  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.      Like  order  in 

Westminster,  regard  to  the  manor  of  Walton  ;  as  the  king  has  by  like  inquisition 

learned  that  the  said  deceased  held  that  manor  as  above  of  a  gift 

made  by  Walter  Notte  clerk  and  Philip  de  Upton  clerk  by  fine  levied 

in  the  king's  court,  and  that  the  same  is  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

March  4.         To  William  Banastre  escheator  in  Salop.     Order  to  cause  John 
Westminster.  Baskerville,  son  and  heir  of  Walter  Baskerville  and  of  Elizabeth  late 
his  \Wfe  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Delves  tenants  in  cliief,    to  have 
seisin  of  the  lands  of  Ms  said  father  and  mother  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  their  death  ;  as  the  said  John  has  proved  his  age  before  the 
escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty. 
The  like  to  the  following,  mutatis  mutandis : 
Simon  Warde  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire. 
William  Auncel  escheator  in  Herefordshire. 

Membrane  38. 

March  12.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Suthampton.  Order, 
Westminster,  upon  the  petition  of  Reynold  Loue  citizen  and  merchant  of  London, 
at  his  cost  if  need  be,  to  suffer  the  balances  and  weights  appointed 
for  w^eighing  wool  in  the  said  port  to  be  taken  to  the  port  of  Melcombe, 
which  is  within  the  limits  and  districts  of  the  said  collectors'  bailiwick, 
to  suffer  300  sacks  of  wool  by  him  bought  in  divers  parts  of  England 
and  brought  thither  to  be  there  weighed  and  cocketed,  and  the  said 
Reynold  by  himself  and  his  servants  to  lade  the  said  wool  in  ships 
when  so  weighed  and  cocketed,  after  receiving  of  them  the  customs 
and  subsidies  thereupon  due,  and  to  take  them  to  Calais  to  make  his 
advantage  thereof ;  as  he  has  prayed  licence  so  to  do. 

Feb.  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.     Order,  if  Richard  de  Croydon  citizen  of 

Westminster.  London  shall  find  so  many  men  at  arms,  armed  men  and  archers  as 
for  his  lands  in  Kent  it  pertains  to  him  to  find  for  defence  of  the  sea 
coast,  to  stay  altogether  any  distress  upon  his  lands,  goods  or  chattels 
in  Kent  by  the  sheriff  made  for  his  said  lands  in  order  to  cause  him 
and  his  household  to  abide  in  that  county,  not  troubling  him  in  anywise 
for  that  cause,  any  proclamations  or  commands  to  the  contrary 
notwithstanding,  although  lately  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  cause 
proclamation  to  be  made  that  all  and  singular  of  whatsoever  estate 
or  condition  having  lands  in  that  county  and  not  dwelling  therein, 


45   EDWARD   III. 


215 


1371, 


Membrane  38 — cont. 


if  they  be  not  continually  abiding  upon  their  own  lands  in  the  counties 
of  Suthampton,  Sussex,  Dorset,  Somerset,  Devon  or  Cornwall  upon 
the  defence  of  the  sea  coast,  should  with  all  speed  under  pain  of 
forfeiture  draw  towards  their  lands  in  Kent,  cause  their  men  and  tenants 
there  to  be  arrayed  every  man  according  to  his  estate  and  means, 
and  with  them  continually  abide  in  array  with  all  their  household 
in  such  power  as  they  may,  compelling  them  so  to  do  by  distraints 
of  their  goods  and  cliattels,  and  if  they  have  none  by  taking  their 
lands  into  the  king's  hand  and  otherwise  as  he  may,  so  that  they  should 
be  there  before  the  octaves  of  the  Purification  last  at  latest,  to  abide 
continually  with  all  their  household  upon  the  defence  of  the  sea  coast 
against  attacks  of  the  king's  enemies  ;  as  the  said  Richard  is  too  sick 
and  infirm  to  be  able  there  to  abide  for  the  purpose.  Proviso  that  the 
said  Richard's  men  and  tenants  in  Kent  be  arrayed  according  to  the 
form  of  the  order  aforesaid.  By  C. 

Feb.  18.  To  the  sheriff  of  Dorset.  Like  order  to  stay  any  distress  made  upon 
Westminster,  the  abbot  of  Teukesbury,  although  etc.  ;  as  the  said  abbot  abides 
continually  in  his  abbey  in  the  march  of  Wales  Avith  his  household 
for  maintenance  of  divine  worship,  as  he  is  bound  to  do,  and  he,  his 
tenants  and  household  are  there  armed,  arrayed  and  tried  for  defence 
of  those  parts  according  to  the  king's  order,  and  he  has  found  as  many 
men  at  arms,  armed  men  and  archers  for  defence  of  the  sea  coast 
as  it  pertains  to  him  to  find  by  reason  of  his  lands  in  Dorset.     By  C. 

To  the  same.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Agnes  who  was  wife 
of  John  Mautravers,  to  cause  her  to  have  respite  until  Whitsuntide 
next  of  abiding  in  Dorset,  not  troubling  her  in  aught  for  that  cause, 
the  proclamation  above  recited  or  other  proclamations  whatsoever 
to  the  contrary  notwithstanding  ;  as  on  behalf  of  the  said  Agnes  the 
king  has  learned  that  the  sheriff  is  troubling  her  in  her  lands  in  Dorset 
so  to  abide  with  her  household,  though  she  is  finding  a  sufficient  quota 
of  men  for  her  lands  in  that  county  for  defence  of  those  parts,  has 
sent  certain  of  her  household  to  make  provision  there  for  her  and  her 
household,  and  is  hastening  to  make  ready  as  speedily  as  she  may 
with  her  whole  household  there  to  abide  continually  according  to  the 
proclamation,  praying  the  respite  aforesaid  in  consideration  of  her 
great  age,  owing  to  wliich  she  may  not  suddenly  depart  thither  without 
great  peril  of  her  body.     Proviso  as  above. 

March  10.        To  the  same.     Like  order  as  in  the  first  writ  in  regard  to  Sara  de 

Westminster.  Brewes  dwelling  in  Buckinghamshire  ;  as  she  is  so  sick,  aged  and  infirm 

that  she  may  not  abide  in  Dorset  upon  the  defence  of  the  sea  coast 

by  reason  of  her  lands  there,  nor  is  able  to  labour  to  that  end.    By  C. 

To  the  treasurer  and  barons  of  the  exchequer  and  to  the  chamberlains. 

Wliereas  on  1  January  in  the  27th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  letters 

patent  gave  to  the  dean  and  canons  of  St.  Stephen  within  Westminster 
palace  the  chamber  within  the  gate  by  the  queen's  bridge  where  now  is 
opened  an  entry  into  the  said  chapel,  which  chamber  was  sometime 
of  the  clerk  of  the  kitchen,  the  houses  within  the  palace  formerly 
appointed  for  stables  of  the  destriers  and  other  the  king's  horses, 
the  king's  garden  there  as  it  extends  in  length  and  breadth  between 
the  said  houses  and  the  lodging  sometime  of  the  earl  of  Kent  [in]  the 
town  of  Westminster  adjoining  the  said  garden,  the  said  lodging  as 


216 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371. 


MemJbrane  38 — cont. 


fully  as  the  king  had  the  same  of  the  said  earl's  gift,  and  the  tenements 
in  the  town  of  Westminster  which  were  of  Roger  de  Heyton  surgeon 
Incomplete. 

Feb.  17.  To  the  chancellor  and  scholars  of  Oxford  university  for  the  time 
Westminster,  being.  Order  to  pay  to  Edmund  de  Tettesworth  the  king's  serjeant 
the  arrears  of  100s.  a  year  from  25  November  in  the  42nd  year  of  the 
reign,  and  henceforward  to  pay  him  that  sum  year  by  year  and  term 
by  term  during  his  life,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  on  1  December 
last  the  king  of  his  favour  granted  by  letters  patent  to  the  said  Edmund 
for  life  for  his  good  service  that  sum  every  year  from  the  date  above 
mentioned,  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions 
by  the  hand  of  the  said  chancellor  and  scholars  of  the  breach  of  the 
assize  of  bread  and  ale  in  the  town  of  Oxford,  in  the  same  manner 
as  Richard  Englissh  now  deceased  had  it  by  force  of  the  king's  grant. 


Membrane  37. 

March  20.        To  the  sheriff  of  Oxford.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  John  Say,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified  as  the  king  has 
learned. 

March  28.  To  the  collectors  of  the  custom  and  subsidy  upon  wool,  hides  and 
Westminster,  woolfells,  and  k)  the  controller  thereof  in  the  port  of  London. 
Order  to  cause  restitution  to  be  made  to  Bernard  Antoigne,  John  Crede, 
Nicholas  Russell,  James  Jacobyn,  Lowis  Andre,  Aungel  Cavakant  and 
Peter  Marche  merchants  of  Florence,  attorneys  and  proctors  of  the  doge, 
commonalty  a,nd\distrettuaU  of  Genoa  {Januensium),  of  1593  pockets  of 
wool,  33  bales  of  woolfells,  12  bales  of  glasswort  {soudr')  and  51  pieces 
of  woollen  cloth  by  them  arrested,  having  been  found  in  two  cocche 
or  tarits  of  Genoa  at  the  time  of  their  capture,  brought  to  the  city 
of  London,  there  taken  out  of  the  said  tarits,  and  heretofore  delivered 
by  Guy  de  Briene  and  John  de  Neville  the  king's  admirals  to  the 
said  Jolin  Crede  and  Bernard  by  indentures  containing  particularly 
the  number  of  pockets,  bales  and  pieces  by  the  particular  marks  therein 
specified,  according  to  the  form  of  the  agreement  made  between  the  king 
and  the  Genoese,  suffering  the  said  attorneys  and  proctors  freely  without 
let  to  lade  the  same  in  ships  and  without  levy  of  custom  or  subsidy 
thereupon  to  the  king's  use  to  take  them  to  foreign  parts  whither 
they  w^ill  ;  as  lately  of  his  favour,  by  counsel  of  the  prelates,  princes, 
lords  and  wise  men  of  his  council,  the  king  took  order  that  the  said 
tarits,  being  taken  at  sea  and  brought  into  his  realm  and  pow  er,  should 
with  the  goods  and  merchandise  therein  at  the  time  of  the  capture 
be  restored  to  Pascalotus  Usus  Maris  proctor  and  S5mdic  of  the  doge, 
commonalty  and  distrettv,ali  aforesaid  specially  despatched  on  their 
behalf  for  the  purpose  ;  and  the  king  would  deal  amicably  wdth  the 
Genoese,  and  observe  the  said  ordinance.  Proviso  that  no  wool, 
woolfells  or  cloths  shall  be  exported  by  colour  of  this  command  save 
those  specified  in  the  said  indentures. 

The  like  to  the  collectors  as  well  of  the  custom  and  subsidy  upon 
wool,  hides  and  woolfells  as  of  the  petty  custom,  and  to  the  controller 
in  the  said  port. 

June  26.         To  the  collectors  of  the  custom  and  subsidy  etc.  as  above.  Like  order 
Westminster,  to  restore  and  deliver  to  James  de  Petro  Dyne  of  Florence,  attorney 


45    EDWARD    III. 


217 


1371. 


Membrane  37 — cont. 


and  proctor  of  the  merchants  of  Venice,  54  pockets  of  wool,  five  bales 
of  woolfells  and  one  cloth  of  Braban  by  them  kept  under  arrest,  which 
were  found  in  the  cocche  or  tarits  above  mentioned  at  the  time  of  their 
capture,  brought  to  the  city  of  London,  and  were  by  John  de  Neville 
and  Guy  de  Briene  the  king's  admirals  delivered  to  the  said  James, 
according  to  the  agreement  made  between  the  king  and  the  Genoese, 
by  indentures  containing  the  number  of  pockets  and  bales  and  the 
said  cloth,  suffering  him  to  lade  the  same  in  ships  in  that  port  and 
without  levy  of  custom  or  subsidy  thereupon  to  the  king's  use  freely 
to  take  them  to  foreign  parts  whither  he  will  according  to  the  said 
agreement.  Proviso  that  no  wool,  woolfells  or  cloth  be  exported 
by  colour  of  these  presents  besides  those  specified  in  the  said  indentures. 

The  like  to  the  collectors  as  well  of  the  subsidy  upon  wool,  hides 
and  woolfells  as  of  the  petty  custom,  and  to  the  controller  in  the  said 
port,  concerning  delivery  of  the  said  five  bales  of  woolfells  and  one 
cloth  of  Braban  to  the  said  James. 

The  like  to  the  collectors  of  the  custom  and  subsidy  upon  wool,  hides 
and  woolfells  and  to  the  controller  thereof  in  the  said  port,  concerning 
the  deUvery  of  nine  cockets  {sic)  of  wool  to  Bernard  Antoigne  attorney 
of  the  merchants  of  Genoa. 

June  28.  To  all  and  singular  the  king's  admirals,  their  lieutenants,  his 
Westminster,  customers,  controllers  of  customs,  keepers  of  the  seaports  and  other 
seaward  places,  sheriffs,  bailiffs,  ministers  and  lieges  to  whom  etc. 
Order  to  suffer  James  de  Petro  Dyne  of  Florence  attorney  and 
proctor  t  of  Genoa  [Janua]  of  Venice  f  and  Bernard  Antoigne  attorney 
of  the  merchants  of  Genoa  freely  without  let  to  bring  and  carry  53 
(■sic)  pockets  of  wool,  five  bales  of  woolfells  and  one  cloth  of  Braban 
through  the  ports  and  places  within  the  districts  of  the  said  admirals 
etc.  to  what  parts  they  will  without  payment  of  custom  or  subsidy  to 
the  king's  use  or  laying  other  arrest  upon  them,  provided  that  no 
wool,  woolfells  or  cloths  be  exported  by  colour  of  this  command 
save  those  specified  in  the  indentures  ;  as  by  divers  writs  the  king 
has  commanded  the  collectors  as  well  of  the  custom  and  subsidy 
upon  wool,  hides  and  woolfells  as  the  controller  in  the  port  of  London 
to  restore  and  deliver  to  the  said  James  54  pockets  of  wool  and  five  bales 
of  woolfells  and  the  said  cloth,  and  to  the  said  Bernard  nine  pockets 
of  wool  by  them  arrested,  all  wliich  were  lately  taken  at  sea  in  certain 
cocche  or  tarits  of  Genoa  at  the  time  of  their  capture,  brought  to  the 
city  of  London,  and  according  to  the  form  of  tlie  agreement  between 
the  king  and  the  doge,  commonalty  and  distreltuali  of  Genoa  delivered 
by  Jolin  de  Neville  and  Guy  de  Briene  the  king's  admirals  to  the 
said  James  [and  Bernard]  by  indentures  containing  the  number  of 
the  said  pockets  and  bales  and  the  said  cloth,  and  to  suffer  the  said 
James  and  Anthony  {sic)  to  lade  the  same  in  ships  in  the  said  port, 
and  wdthout  levy  of  custom  or  subsidy  to  the  king's  use  to  take  them 
to  whatever  parts  they  would. 


Membrane  36. 

March  4.         To  the  sheriff  of  Somerset.     Order  to  deliver  to  WiUiam  de  Adewell 

Westminster,  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  of  Stephen  Wynslade  in  that  bailiwick 

taken  by  the  sheriff  into  the  king's  hand,  if  he  \v]W.  take  them  by  extent, 

to  hold  to  the  said  William  and  Ms  assigns  as  their  freehold  until 

contented  of  a  debt  of  80/.  to  him  due  from  the  said  Stephen  and 


218 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  36 — cont. 

Edward  de  Coumbe  and  of  his  damages  and  costs,  and  nevertheless 
to  take  and  imprison  the  bodies  of  the  said  Stephen  and  Edward 
if  laymen,  until  the  said  William  be  contented  of  the  said  debt, 
certifying  in  chancery  in  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next  by  letters  under 
his  seal  how  he  has  executed  this  command,  and  bringing  this  writ  ; 
as  lately  on  finding  by  certificate  sent  into  chancery  by  William  de 
Walworth  mayor  of  the  staple  of  Westminster,  being  deputed  to 
receive  recognisances  of  debts  in  the  said  staple,  that  on  4  July  in 
the  43rd  year  of  the  reign  before  Fulk  de  Horwode  late  mayor  of  the 
said  staple,  then  deputed  as  aforesaid,  the  said  Stephen  and  Edward 
jointly  and  severally  acknowledged  their  said  debt  to  the  said  William 
de  Adewell  which  they  ought  to  have  paid  at  All  Saints  then  next 
to  come,  and  that  they  paid  it  not,  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to 
take  and  imprison  the  bodies  of  the  said  Stephen  and  Edward,  if 
laymen,  until  they  should  content  him  thereof,  causing  all  their  lands 
and  chattels  in  that  bailiwick  to  be  extended  and  appraised  and  to 
be  seized  into  the  king's  hand  in  order  to  be  delivered  to  William  de 
Adewell  according  to  the  ordinance,  and  certifying  in  chancery  in  the 
quinzaine  of  Hilary  last  what  he  had  done ;  and  the  sheriff  returned 
that  Edmund  Cheyne  late  sheriff  his  predecessor  by  virtue  of  another 
writ  to  him  addressed  delivered  to  Adam  Stable  and  Robert  Haryngeay 
citizens  and  mercers  of  London  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  which 
were  of  the  said  Stephen  in  his  bailiwick,  extended  at  56/.  4.s.  Id. 
a  year,  to  hold  to  them  and  their  assigns  as  their  freehold  until 
contented  of  200/.  with  their  damages  and  costs,  and  that  nevertheless 
he  caused  the  same  to  be  seized  into  the  king's  hand  until  the  king 
should  take  order  to  which  of  the  said  creditors  they  ought  to  be 
delivered,  returning  that  the  said  Edward  has  no  lands,  goods  or 
chattels  in  that  bailiwick  which  may  be  extended,  appraised  and  seized 
as  aforesaid  ;  and  after  at  the  suit  of  William  de  Adewell,  averring 
that  the  said  Stephen  and  Edward  were  in  the  said  staple  bound  to 
him  in  80/.  long  before  the  said  Stephen  was  bound  to  the  said  Adam 
and  Robert  in  200/.,  and  praying  livery  to  him  of  the  said  lands  etc.  to 
hold  as  aforesaid  according  to  the  ordinance  lately  made  concerning 
such  recognisances,  the  king  by  writ  ordered  the  sheriff  to  give  notice 
to  the  said  Adam  and  Robert  to  be  before  the  king  on  the  morrow 
of  St.  Matthias  last  to  shew  cause  wherefore  the  premises  being  so 
seized  into  the  king's  hand  ought  not  to  be  delivered  to  WilUam  de 
Adewell,  and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court  should 
determine  in  that  behalf,  and  the  sheriff  returned  that  he  gave  them 
notice  accordingly  by  William  Poleyn  and  William  Jurdan  ;  and  they 
being  so  warned  came  not  in  chancery  at  the  aforesaid  day, 

March  5.         To  the  sheriff  of  Wiltesir.     Order  of  the  issues  of  his  bailiwick 

Westminster,  up  to  the  sum  of  40/.  to  cause  the  defects  of  Old  Sarum  castle,  as  in 

houses,  walls,   turrets   and    other    buildings   where   need    be,    to    be 

repaired  by  oversight  of  William  de  Okebourne  and  Thomas  Erlestoke 

clerk.  By  C. 

Feb.  20.  To  Master  John  de  Bolton  the  king's  clerk,  chancellor  of  Berewic 

Westminster,  upon  Twede.  Order  by  wTits  under  the  seal  used  in  that  behalf, 
which  is  in  his  keeping,  to  give  special  command  when  need  be  to 
the  king's  ministers  or  others  whom  it  concerns  to  make  inquisition 
concerning  the  lands  and  chattels  which  were  of  John  Dunkanson 
of  Berewic  on  the  day  he  committed  the  felony  for  which  he  waa 


45    EDWARD    III.  219 


1371.  Membrane  36 — covi. 

outlawed  and  after  and  the  extent  of  sucli  lands,  to  cause  the  same 
to  bo  seized  into  the  king's  hand  in  whose  hands  [soeverj  they 
shall  be  and  answer  to  be  made  to  the  king  concerning  them,  and 
further  to  do  what  he  shall  see  fit  for  the  speedy  execution  of  the 
business,  certifying  in  chancery  under  his  seal  when  he  shall  have 
executed  this  command ;  as  the  said  John  was  outlawed  in  Northum- 
berland for  the  death  of  Richard  Benerigge  by  ai^  appeal  before  the 
king  made  by  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  the  said  Richard  and  by 
process  thereupon,  as  appears  by  the  tenor  of  the  record  and  process 
of  his  outlawry  sent  into  chancery  at  the  king's  command ;  and  the 
king  is  informed  that,  though  the  lands  and  chattels  which  were  his 
on  the  day  that  felony  was  committed  and  after  are  by  reason  of 
his  outlawry  confiscated  to  the  king,  he  is  yet  keeping  the  same  to 
him  and  converting  them  to  his  own  use  in  contempt  of  the  king  ; 
and  it  is  the  king's  will  that  answer  be  made  to  him  concerning 
the  issues  thereof. 

March  21.        To   Simon   Warde   escheator   in   Norhamptonshire   and   Roteland. 

Westminster.  Order  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  priory  of  Chaucombe  now  void 
by  the  death  of  Henry  de  Keg  worth  the  last  prior,  or  \vith  the 
temporalities  or  goods  thereto  belonging,  which  were  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  vacancy  and  of  the  nonage  of  the  heir 
of  John  Moubray  of  Axholme  tenant  in  chief  now  patron  thereof, 
being  within  age  and  in  the  king's  wardship,  deUvering  fully  to  the 
subprior  and  convent  any  issues  thereof  taken ;  as  upon  the  finding 
of  an  inquisition,  taken  at  the  late  king's  command  by  Matthew  Broun 
then  escheator,  that  Hugh  de  Chaucombe,  founder  of  the  said  priory, 
which  is  of  the  advowson  of  the  heir  of  Stephen  de  Segrave  tenant 
in  chief  then  a  minor  in  the  said  king's  wardship,  long  ago  by  his 
charter  granted  to  the  canons  thereof  that  with  his  assent  and  the 
assent  of  his  heirs  they  should  have  freedom  of  election,  that  Amabel 
de  Segrave  heir  of  the  said  Hugh  after  by  her  charter  granted  them 
that  upon  the  vacancy  of  the  said  priory  by  death  or  cession  of  any 
prior  they  should  have  free  administration  of  all  things  moveable 
and  immovable,  saving  to  her  and  her  heirs  one  servant  on  her  behalf 
and  theirs  to  abide  in  the  said  priory  during  such  vacancy  for  defence 
thereof  and  protection  of  the  goods  thereof,  finding  also  that  by 
virtue  of  those  charters  after  the  death  or  cession  of  every  prior  since 
the  date  thereof  the  subprior  and  convent  have  had  freedom  of  election, 
and  have  been  used  to  elect  another  prior  at  every  vacancy  without 
craving  licence  to  elect  from  the  said  Stephen  or  any  of  his  ancestors 
being  their  patrons,  and  that  during  a  vacancy  they  have  had  free 
administration  of  all  things  moveable  and  immovable  and  the  keeping  of 
all  the  temporahties  thereof  without  let  or  question  of  the  said  Stephen 
or  any  such  his  ancestors,  and  without  that  that  the  said  Stephen 
or  any  his  ancestors  have  taken  any  issues  or  profits  of  the  said 
temporahties  in  time  of  any  vacancy,  or  have  had  any  other  estate 
in  the  priory  or  in  the  keeping  of  the  temporahties  aforesaid,  save 
that  at  every  vacancy  he  and  liis  said  ancestors  have  set  one  servant 
to  abide  as  aforesaid  at  the  gates  of  the  said  house  without  taking 
or  carrying  away  any  issue  or  profit  of  the  said  temporalities,  and 
finding  further  that  election  being  made  by  the  subprior  and  convent, 
they  have  been  used  forthwith  by  their  letters  patent  sealed  with 
their  common  seal  to  send  the  prior  elect  to  the  ancestors  of  the  said 
Stephen,  who  at  every  vacancy  have  received  such  elect  persons  without 


220 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371. 


AJembrane  36 — cont. 


challenge,  and  have  been  used  to  present  them  by  their  letters  patent 
to  the  bishop  of  Lincoln  for  the  time  being,  that  tlie  elect  persons 
being  by  the  bisTiop  confirmed  have  been  used  to  return  to  the  said 
priory  at  their  w  ill,  without  at  any  time  doing  fealty  or  any  service 
to  the  said  Stephen  or  to  any  of  his  ancestors,  and  lastly  finding 
that  when  the  prior  so  obtained  his  confirmation  and  returned  to 
the  said  priory  the  said  servant  without  letter  or  order  of  his  lord 
has  been  used  forthwith  to  depart,  the  late  king  commanded  the  said 
Matthew  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  said  priory,  which  was  then 
void,  or  with  the  temporalities  thereof  taken  into  the  said  king's  hand 
by  reason  of  that  vacancy,  delivering  wholly  to  the  subprior  and 
convent  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  and  after  on  22  March  in  the  7th 
year  of  his  reign,  the  priory  being  then  void  by  the  death  of  Roger 
the  late  prior,  the  now  king  commanded  his  then  escheators  in 
Norhamptonshire,  Warwickshire  and  Leycestershire  not  to  meddle 
further  with  the  said  priory  or  the  temporalities,  goods  or  chattels 
thereto  belonging  taken  into  his  hand  by  reason  of  that  vacancy 
and  of  the  nonage  of  the  heir  being  then  in  his  hand,  and  to  restore 
to  the  subprior  and  convent  the  issues  thereof  taken,  as  by  inspection 
of  the  chancery  rolls  the  king  is  assured.  Proviso  that  on  the  king's 
behalf  one  servant  shall  be  deputed  in  the  said  priory  as  aforesaid 
during  this  vacancy. 


March  21,       To  John  Rous  escheator  in  Warwickshire  and  Leycestershire. 
VVestminstor.  order  {the  proviso  being  omitted). 


Like 


Membrane  35. 

March  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall.  Order  not  to  compel,  distrain  or  trouble 
Westminster.  John  Blaunkmoustier  knight  to  abide  continually  in  person  upon  his 
lands  in  Cornwall  according  to  the  proclamation,  the  said  proclamation 
or  the  king's  command  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding,  releasing 
any  distress  made  upon  him  in  lands  or  goods  and  chattels  ;  as  lately 
being  aware  that  liis  enemies  of  France  and  other  their  adherents  had 
assembled  a  great  host  of  ships  with  men  at  arms  and  armed  men, 
purposing  therewith  as  soon  as  they  might  to  land  within  the  realm, 
destroy  the  king  and  liis  kingdom  and  wipe  away  all  the  English 
tongue  if  their  malice  were  not  resisted  with  the  strong  hand,  and 
wishing  to  provide  against  the  hurt  and  peril  which  miglit  happen 
to  the  king,  his  realm  and  subjects  by  their  attacks,  the  king  ordered 
the  sheriff  ceasing  every  excuse  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  that 
all  and  singular,  of  w^iatsoever  estate  or  condition,  having  lands  in 
Cornwall  and  not  dwelling  within  the  county,  if  not  continually  abiding 
upon  their  own.  lands  in  the  counties  of  Kent,  Suthampton,  Sussex, 
Dorset,  Somerset  or  Devon  upon  the  defence  of  the  sea  coast,  should 
under  pain  of  forfeiture  draw  with  all  speed  to  their  lands  in  Cornwall, 
cause  their  men  and  tenants  there  to  be  arrayed  every  man  according 
to  his  estate  and  means,  and  with  their  said  men  and  tenants  so  arrayed 
and  all  their  household  there  continually  abide  wdth  the  strongest 
power  they  might,  compelling  them  so  to  do  by  distraint  of  their 
lands,  goods  and  chattels,  and  if  they  had  no  goods  and  chattels  by 
taking  their  lands  into  the  king's  hand  and  otherwise,  so  that  they 
should  be  there  at  latest  before  the  octaves  of  the  Purification  last 
to  abide  continually  with  all  their  household  upon  the  defence  of  the 
sea  coast  against  attacks  of  the  enemy  ;  but  the  said  John  is  of  the 


45    EDWARD    III. 


221 


1371.  Membrane  35 — corit. 

retinue  of  William  de  Monte  Acuto  earl  of  Salisbury,  abiding  continually 
with  the  said  earl  as  of  his  household,  ready  to  march  with  him  upon 
the  king's  service  whither  the  king  will  send  him,  as  the  said  earl  in 
person  has  borne  witness  before  the  king  and  council,  wherefore  he 
may  not  be  compelled  to  abide  upon  his  lands  in  Cornwall.     By  C. 

Memorandum  tliat  here  the  king  delivered  the  .great  seal  to  Sir 
Robert  de  Thorp  knight  the  chancellor,  as  appears  upon  the  back 
of  this  roll. 

April  2.  To  William  Che3me  escheator  in  Somerset.     Order  not  to  meddle 

Westminster,  further  with  the  lands  of  Thomas  Denboude,  tenant  by  knight  service 
of  the  heir  of  William  Kayle  tenant  in  chief  a  minor  in  the  king's 
wardship,  which  lands  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  the  said  Thomas  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  and  are 
so  in  the  king's  hand  ;  as  John  Denboude  son  and  heir  of  the  said 
Thomas  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  on  15  July  in 
the  43rd  year  of  the  reign  the  age  of  John  son  and  heir  of  the  said 
William  was  proved,  and  the  king  took  his  homage  and  fealty,  and 
commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  his  father's  lands. 

April  10.         To  the  sheriff  of  Worcester.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Simon  Poche,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified  as  the  king  has 
learned. 

To  the  same.  Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead  of 
William  Petlyng,  who  is  dead. 

April  13.         To  the  sheriff  of  Dorset.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  John  Bowode  the  elder,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

March  12.        To  the  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Ralph  de  Hynton,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Feb.  6.  To  the  sheriff  of  Worcester.     Order  to  cause  a  verderer  in  the  forest 

Westminster,  of  Feckenham  to  be  elected  instead  of  Richard  de  Rudyng,  who  is 
dead. 

April  8.         To  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Simon  Leuelaunte,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Membrane  33.* 

April  4.  To  John  Rous  escheator  in  Warwickshire.     Order  of  the  king's 

Westminster,  favour  to  restore  to  John  Corpsone  clerk,  unless  he  was  a  fugitive, 
his  lands,  goods  and  chattels  taken  into  the  king's  hand  upon  charges  of 
theft ;  as  before  Thomas  de  Ingelby  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed 
to  deliver  Warrewyk  gaol,  the  said  clerk  was  indicted  for  the 
theft  of  one  ox  of  William  Cokkes  and  of  five  oxen  and  two  kine  of 
John  Bottourt  knight,  and  was  after  at  the  request  of  W.  bishop  of 
Worcester  the  ordinary  by  them  delivered  to  the  said  bishop  as  usual 
according  to  the  benefit  of  clergy,  and  has  purged  his  innocence  before 
the  said  bishop,  as  the  bishop  has  signified  to  the  king. 


*  3Iembrane  34  is  blank. 


222 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371. 

May  8. 
Guildford. 


March  24. 
Westminster. 


March  24. 
Westminster. 


March  15. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  33 — cont. 

To  Simon  Blokl^Tig,  John  de  Oulton  and  Stephen  Silvestre  VjaiUffa 
of  the  city  of  Norwich,  Thoma.s  Bom.sted,  Peter  de  Bleklyng,  WilUam 
de  Broke,  Ralph  Sket,  John  Stoke,  John  Lothale,  Walter  Bixton, 
Peter  de  Bixton  and  Robert  hi.s  brother,  Hugh  de  Holand,  John  de 
Welborne,  Robert  Spicer,  RejTiold  Colby,  John  de  Wyntirton,  Simon 
de  Almayne,  James  Yve,  Robert  Papyngeye,  William  de  Worstede, 
Reynold  de  Bungeye,  John  Warde  and  John  de  Bastwyk  citizens, 
and  other  the  inhabitants  in  the  said  city.  Order  at  their  peril,  upon 
complaint  and  petition  of  Henry  Lomenour,  John  Gynay,  Nicholas 
de  Blakenay,  William  Asger,  William  Blaklyngge,  Bartholomew 
Appelyard  and  John  Prantyng  citizens  of  Norwich,  to  meet  at  some 
set  place  within  the  city  and  take  such  order  for  the  safe  keeping, 
peace  and  tranquility  thereof  that  no  hurt  or  violence  may  by  any 
evildoers  be  done  to  the  said  complainants,  and  no  breach  of  the  peace, 
tumult  or  disturbance  of  the  king's  people,  no  wrongdoings,  misprisions 
or  other  mischiefs  be  done  or  had,  and  no  costs  or  taxes  be  set,  levied 
or  demanded  therein  to  the  destruction  of  the  king's  subjects  ;  as 
lately  by  their  complaint  averring  that  because  of  grievous  dispute 
which  arose  between  certain  citizens  and  the  commons  of  the  said 
city,  and  open  threats  made  against  them  by  certain  their  enemies, 
they  dared  not  repair  thither  for  governance  of  their  lands,  goods 
and  possessions  therein,  and  praying  that  the  king  would  look  to 
their  safety,  the  king  took  the  said  complainants  under  his  special 
protection,  their  waives,  children,  men,  tenants  and  servants,  lands, 
possessions,  property,  goods  and  chattels  whatsoever,  forbidding 
aU  and  singular  at  their  peril  and  under  pain  of  forfeiture  to  inflict 
any  wrong,  trouble,  hurt  or  grievance  upon  the  complainants  in  their 
persons  or  property.  By  K. 

Et  erat  patens. 

Membrane  32. 

To  Michael  atte  Mede.  Order  not  to  meddle  in  the  office  of  escheator 
in  Devon,  although  by  letters  patent  of  16  February  last  the  king 
committed  that  office  to  him  to  hold  from  Easter  next  during  pleasure  ; 
as  for  particular  causes  the  king  has  revoked  his  commission. 

To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Suthampton.  Order 
to  dearrest  and  deliver  to  John  de  Derneford,  attorney  of  Thomas 
de  Melburne  the  king's  clerk  treasurer  of  Brittany,  to  carry  M'hither 
he  will  within  the  realm,  300  bows  arrested  in  the  said  port  by  the 
deputy  of  Guy  de  Briene  the  king's  admiral  towards  the  west ;  as 
although  lately  the  king  gave  the  said  Thomas  licence  by  himself 
or  his  servants  to  take  the  said  bows  out  of  the  realm  to  Brittany, 
for  particular  causes  it  is  his  will  that  they  shall  not  be  taken  out  of 
the  realm. 

To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of 
Reynold  Loue,  if  lawfully  assured  that  William  Swalclif  is  bound  to 
the  said  Reynold  in  68Z.,  to  cause  all  goods  and  chattels  of  the  said 
William  in  their  bailiwick  to  be  arrested  and  the  said  sum  to  be  thereof 
levied,  and  answer  to  be  made  for  it  to  the  king  in  his  chamber  in 
part  of  74/.  10s.  8fZ.  due  to  the  king  from  the  said  Reynold,  any  extent 
of  the  said  goods  and  chattels  made  by  virtue  of  any  former  writ 
addressed  to  the  said  sheriffs  notwithstanding;  as  the  said  Rejmold 
is    bound   to   pay  the   king   in   his   chamber  that  greater  sum,  as 


45    EDWARD    III. 


223 


1371. 


Membrane  32 — cont. 


April  18. 
Westminster. 


April  20. 
Westminster. 


April  20. 
Westminster. 


Helmyng  Leget  receiver  of  his  chamber  has  testified,  and  the  said 
Reynold  ha'^  prayed  the  king's  aid  in  levying  GSl.  wherein  the  said 
William  is  bound  to  him,  as  the  said  William  scheming  to  debar  him 
from  his  due  has  fled  to  Westminster  there  to  obtain  the  sanctuary 
of  holy  church,  and  is  purposing  to  withdraw  all  his  goods  and  chattels 
which  are  in  the  city  of  London. 

To  the  bailiffs  and  commonalty  of  Newcastle  up6n  Tyne.  Order 
on  sight  of  these  presents  forthwith  to  cause  a  fit  and  more  sufficient 
mayor  of  the  town  to  be  elected  instead  of  Robert  de  Angerton,  such 
an  one  as  shall  be  faithful  and  useful  to  the  king  and  the  realm  and 
for  governance  of  the  town  ;  as  for  particular  causes  the  king  lately 
removed  the  said  Robert  from  the  office  of  mayor. 

To  John  Rous  escheator  in  Leycestershire.  Order  to  remove  the 
king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  100  acres  of  land  in 
Lutturworth,  delivering  to  Maud  late  the  wife  of  Reynold  de  Grey 
of  Wilton  upon  Wee  any  issues  thereof  taken  since  her  husband's 
death  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  the  said  Reynold  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in 
his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  held  the  said  land  jointly 
with  the  said  Maud  in  fee  tail  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies 
of  the  gift  of  Henry  de  Grey  kniglit  father  of  the  said  Reynold,  and 
that  the  same  is  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

To  John  Rous  escheator  in  Leycestershire.     The  last  writ  repeated. 
Vacated  because  above. 


April  14.  To  the  sheriff  of  Devon  for  the  time  being.  Order  of  the  farm  or 
Westminster,  issues  of  that  county  to  pay  to  Nigel  Loryng  the  arrears  of  70  marks 
a  year  from  24  August  in  the  33rd  year  of  the  reign,  and  henceforward 
to  pay  him  that  yearly  sum,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  on  that  date 
the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  to  the  said  Nigel  that  he  should 
have  every  year  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter 
by  even  portions  20  marks  of  the  50  marks  formerly  granted  him 
by  the  king,  other  20  marks  yearly  granted  him  before  he  took  upon 
him  the  order  of  knighthood,  and  likewise  20/.  after  granted  him 
yearly  to  be  taken  at  the  exchequer  for  maintaining  the  estate  of 
knighthood,  to  him  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  or  until  provision 
should  be  made  him  of  lands  or  rents  to  the  value  of  70  marks  a  year 
over  and  above  the  manor  of  Wynkele  and  the  reversions  of  certain 
tenements  in  HalghewiU  and  Blakeburghbot'  granted  by  the  king 
to  him  and  his  heirs, 
Et  erat  patens. 

April  24.  To  Ralph  de  Ferrariis  keeper  of  the  isle  of  Wight  or  his  lieutenant 
Westminster,  there.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  William  de  Spridlyngton  clerk, 
to  suffer  the  said  William  by  liimself  or  his  deputies  to  receive  of 
Walter  de  Burton  and  others  of  the  said  island  beasts  and  com  to 
the  value  of  their  debt,  and  freely  without  let  to  carry  the  same  to 
the  to\^Ti  of  Suthampton  to  make  his  advantage  thereof,  any  commands 
or  proclamations  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding  ;  as  his  petition 
shews  that  the  said  debtors  are  bound  to  him  in  20  marks,  and  have 
nothing  but  beasts  and  corn  A\herewith  they  may  content  him  of 
their  debt,  and  that  they  are  ready  therewith  to  content  him  in  case 


224 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


LS71, 


Membrane  32 — cont. 


the  king  will  grant  him  licence  to  receive  and  carry  the  same  out  of 
the  island  to  the  said  town.  Proviso  that  the  beasts  and  com  be 
brought  to  no  foreign  parts  but  to  the  said  town.  By  C. 

April  25.  To  John  dc  Wilyngton.  Writ  discharging  him  of  the  king's  late 
Westminster,  commission  appointing  him  with  John  Daumarle  and  other  his  lieges 
to  collect  and  levy  in  Devon  the  subsidy  of  225.  M.  of  singular  the 
parishes  in  that  county  granted  to  the  king  by  the  commons  of  the 
realm  in  the  last  parliament ;  as  he  is  of  the  retinue  of  Richard  earl 
of  Arundell,  as  the  said  earl  has  testified  to  the  king,  and  with 
advice  of  the  council  order  is  made  in  the  said  parliament  that  those 
who  are  in  the  king's  retinue  and  in  the  retinue  of  other  nobles  of 
the  realm  shall  be  discharged  of  collecting  the  said  subsidy.  The 
king  has  commanded  the  said  John  Daumarle  and  his  fellows  to  be 
intcndant  upon  the  levying  and  collection  thereof  without  awaiting 
the  presence  of  the  said  John  de  Wilyngton.  By  C. 

To  John  Daumarle,  Martin  Ferrers,  William  Brightleye,  Thomas 
Aston  and  Walter  Branscombe  collectors  of  the  subsidy  of  22s.  3d. 
of  singular  the  parishes  in  Devon  granted  to  the  king  by  the  commons 
of  the  realm  in  the  last  parliament.  Order  to  be  intendant  upon  the 
collection  and  levy  of  the  said  subsidy,  not  awaiting  the  presence  of 
John  de  W^ilyngton  lately  appointed  with  them  so  to  do  ;  as  the  king 
has  discharged  him  of  so  doing  for  that  he  is  of  the  retinue  etc.  {as 
above).  By  C. 

Membrane  3L 

April  28.  To  Simon  Warde  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.  Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  moiety  of  the  manor 
of  Great  Okie,  and  three  carucates  of  land  and  meadow  to  the  said 
moiety  pertaining,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken ;  as 
the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
Richard  Lyouns  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief 
in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  held  the  premises  of  Mary 
de  Sane  to  Paulo  countess  of  Pembroke. 

May  21.  To   Thomas   de   Musgrave   escheator   in   Westmorland.     Order   to 

Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor 
of  Askeby  W3manderwath,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
Christopher  de  Moriceby  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county 
in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  manor,  4Z.  of  rent 
and  the  advowson  of  the  church  excepted,  jointly  with  Isabel  his 
Avife  (yet  living)  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Hugh  de  Moriceby  and 
Margaret  his  wife  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  the 
same  is  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

May  17.  To  John  Knyvet  and  Thomas  de  Ingelby  justices  appointed  to  hold 

Westminster,  pleas  before  the  king.     Order   by   writ   of  nisi   prius   to   cause   the 

inquisition  whereon  Richard  Whitesyde  of  Drayton  has  before  the 

kmg  put  himself,  it  is  said,  concerning  the  death  of  Richard  Heryerd 

whereof  he  is  appealed,  to  be  taken  before  them  or  one  of  them.     By  C. 

May  24.         To  John  de  Neville  admiral  of  the  fleet  from  the  mouth   of   the 
Westminster.  Thames  northward,  or  to  his  lieutenant.     Order  to  hear  the  plaint 


45  EDWARD  III.  226 


1371.  Membrane  31 — ccmt. 

of  divers  merchants  of  Bruges  in  Flanders,  their  envoys  or  attorneys, 
to  summon  before  them  those  who  should  be  summoned  in  that  behalf, 
and  to  cause  speedy  justice  to  be  done  them  touching  the  restitution 
of  a  ship  called  '  la  Bone  Huere,"  Boudinus  Tunemen  of  le  Scluse  master, 
and  of  the  goods  and  merchandise  therein,  according  to  the  agreement 
made  between  the  king  for  himself  and  his  subjects  and  Lewis  count 
of  Flanders  for  him  and  his  subjects,  namely  that  the  lords,  people, 
subjects,  shipmasters,  seamen  and  merchants  of  either  party  on  either 
side  the  sea,  and  all  other  true  merchants  not  being  enemies 
of  either  party,  may  freely  and  peaceably  in  merchantlike  manner 
communicate,  converse  and  traffic  one  with  another,  and  may  freely  and 
amicably  by  land  and  sea  bring  their  own  goods  and  goods  of  other 
true  merchants  as  aforesaid  as  they  used  to  do  in  time  of  the  peace, 
paying  the  customs  and  other  duties  (deveria),  so  that  no  merchant 
or  other  of  Flanders  going  or  coming  by  sea  shall  by  colour,  fraud 
or  covin  whatsoever  lade  any  ship  or  vessel  with  any  goods  of  the 
king's  enemies  of  France  and  Spain,  and  that  in  case  any  ships,  goods 
or  merchandise  shall  be  taken  or  arrested  at  sea  on  either  party,  they 
should  be  restored  to  the  said  merchants  ;  and  now  by  the  plaint  of 
the  said  merchants  of  Bruges  the  king  has  learned  that  the  said  ship 
being  freighted  with  divers  their  merchandise  was  on  its  voyage  from 
Caen  towards  the  port  of  Swjti  taken  in  warlike  manner  and  arrested 
by  some  of  the  king's  subjects,  and  brought  to  the  coast  of  England 
contrary  to  the  said  agreement,  as  the  king  is  assured  by  letters 
before  him  produced  as  well  of  the  said  count  as  of  the  burgesses 
and  commonalty  of  Brugges,  praying  restitution  thereof  ;  and  it  is  the 
king's  will  that  the  agreement  be  kept  in  all  respects. 
[Fcedera.] 

May  26.  To  Nicholas  de  Tamworth  captain  and  William  de  Gunthorp 
Westminster,  treasurer  of  the  town  of  Calais,  and  to  the  mayor  thereof.  Order  to 
hear  the  plaint  of  Richard  de  Ipre  burgess  of  Bruges  in  Flanders, 
Ghiis  Cudel  master  of  a  ship  called  the  '  Seinte  Marie  '  of  Lesclus, 
and  John  Mone  of  Lesclus  master  of  another  ship  of  Lesclus,  their 
envoys  or  attorneys,  to  summon  before  them  Richard  Lyouns  and 
John  Grenwych  and  others  who  should  be  summoned  in  that  behalf, 
and  to  cause  speedy  justice  to  be  done  to  the  complainants  touching 
restitution  of  the  said  two  ships  and  the  goods  and  merchandise  therein, 
according  to  the  agreement  etc.  (as  in  the  last),  that  for  their  default 
no  loud  complaint  come  a  second  time  to  the  king's  ear  ;  as  by  the 
plaint  of  the  said  Richard  de  Ipre,  Ghiis  and  John  Mone  the  king  has 
learned  that  the  said  ships  being  freighted  with  divers  goods  of  Richard 
de  Ipre  were  at  sea  on  their  voyage  taken  in  warlike  manner  and  arrested 
by  John  Grenwych  in  a  ship  of  the  said  Richard  Lyouns  of  Caleys 
called  '  houkebot '  and  by  other  the  king's  subjects,  and  are  unlawfully 
detained  contrary  to  the  said  agreement,  etc.  (as  in  the  last  writ, 
mutatis  mutandis). 
[Ibid.] 

To  the  same.  Order  to  hear  the  plaint  of  divers  merchants  of 
Lescluse  in  Flanders  etc.  (as  in  the  last,  mutatis  mutandis),  according 
to  the  agreement  made  etc.  (as  before)  ;  as  by  the  said  merchants' 
plaint  the  king  has  learned  that  a  sliip  called  '  la  Katerine  '  of  Lescluse, 
John  Moen  of  Lescluse  master,  being  freighted  with  divers  their  goods 
and  merchandise,  was  at  sea  on  its  voyage  from  Caen  towards  the  port 

OR     15 


226  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  31 — cont. 

of  Swyn  taken  in  warlike  manner  and  arrested  by  John  Vox  of  Grenewich 
coming  in  a  ship  of  Richard  Lyouns  of  Caleys  and  by  other  the  king's 
subjects  and  is  unlawfully  detained  contrary  to  the  said  agreement, 
as  the  king  is  assured  by  letters  of  the  said  count  and  of  the  burgesses 
and  commonalty  of  Lescluse  before  him  produced,  praying  restitution 
thereof  to  the  said  merchants  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will  that  the 
agreement  be  kept  in  all  respects. 
[Ibid.] 

To  Guy  de  Briene  admiral  of  the  fleet  from  the  mouth  of  the  Thames 
westward,  or  to  his  lieutenant.  Order  to  hear  the  plaint  of  Tankard 
Clays  filz  Gerard  and  John  le  Keyser  burgesses  of  Bruges  etc.  (as 
above,  mutatis  mutandis),  according  to  the  agreement  etc.  (as  before)  ; 
as  by  their  plaint  the  king  has  learned  that  a  ship  of  theirs,  of  which 
the  said  John  was  master,  being  freighted  with  divers  their  goods 
and  merchandise,  was  at  [sea]  on  its  voyage  from  Ruaen  towards  the 
port  of  Swyn  taken  in  w^arlike  manner  and  arrested  by  certain  the  king's 
subjects  and  brought  to  the  coast  of  England,  and  is  unlawfully 
detained  contrary  to  the  said  agreement,  as  the  king  is  assured  by 
letters  of  the  said  count  and  of  the  burgesses  and  commonalty  of 
Bruges  before  him  produced,  praying  restitution  thereof. 

[Ibid.] 

To  the  same.  Like  order,  mutatis  mutandis,  upon  the  plaint  of 
Andrew  Muelnare  burgess  of  Bruges  ;  as  thereby  the  king  has  learned 
that  a  ship  of  his,  whereof  he  was  master,  freighted  with  divers  his 
goods  and  merchandise  purveyed  and  appointed  for  his  own  stock, 
was  at  sea  on  its  voyage  taken  in  warlike  manner  and  arrested  by 
certain  the  king's  subjects  and  brought  to  the  coast  of  England,  and 
is  unlawfully  detained,  as  the  king  is  assured  etc.  (as  above). 

[Ibid.] 


Membrane  30. 

April  6.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  discharge 

Westminster.  William  de  Briddeford,  the  king's  searcher  in  the  port  of  London  and 
the  river  Thames,  of  195/.  136'.  Ad.  by  him  found  upon  a  servant  of 
Robert  de  Wilford  in  a  ship  to  be  taken  over  to  foreign  parts  without 
the  king's  licence,  contrary  to  the  proclamation  made  by  the  king  and 
council,  and  by  him  arrested  and  delivered  at  the  receipt  of  the  exchequer 
on  25  June  last,  as  the  treasurer  has  certified  in  chancery.       By  C. 

May  4.  To  John  de  Bernes  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator 

Westminster,  therein.  Order,  if  assured  by  inquisition  or  otherwise  that  no  lands 
or  tenements  which  were  of  Thomas  Bedyk  of  London  descended  in  fee 
simple  after  his  death  to  Alexander  his  son  and  heir,  to  remove  the  king's 
hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  rents  hereinafter  mentioned, 
delivering  to  the  said  Alexander  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  lately 
it  w^as  found  by  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  John  de 
Chichestre  then  mayor  and  escheator,  that  John  Mareys  died  seised 
in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  I65.  of  rent  issuing  from  tenements  in  the 
parish  of  St.  Stephen  Colmanstrete  London  in  the  tenure  of  John 
Deynes,  6s.  Sd.  of  rent  issuing  from  a  tenement  in  the  parish  of 
St.  Alphege  without  Crepelgate  in  the  tenure  of  the  prior  of  the 
hospital  of  St.  Mary  Elsyng  within  Crepelgate,  20s.  of  rent  issuing 


45  EDWARD  HI.  227 


1371.  Membrane  30 — cont. 

from  a  tenement  in  the  parish  of  St.  Pancrace  in  the  tenure  of  Thomas 
de  Tudenham,  20^.  8fZ.  of  rent  is.suing  from  a  tenement  in  the  pari.sh 
of  St.  Vedast  London  in  the  tenure  of  Roger  de  Excestre,  85.  of  rent 
is.suing  from  a  tenement  in  the  parish  of  St.  Mary  Colchirch  in  the 
tenure  of  John  Botoun,  12.f.  of  rent  issuing  from  a  tenement  in  the 
said  parish  of  St.  Vedast  in  the  tenure  of  Bartholomew  Castre,  and 
2s,  of  rent  i.ssuing  from  tenements  sometime  of 'Simon  Spiser  in 
Marchane  London,  that  the  said  rent  is  held  of  the  king  in  free  burgage 
as  is  all  the  eity  of  London,  and  that  the  .said  John  died  without  an 
heir,  wherefore  that  rent  is  taken  into  the  king's  hand  ;  and  after  at 
the  suit  of  the  said  Alexander,  averring  that  Henry  Bedyk  late  citizen 
of  London,  his  grandfather,  was  seized  of  the  said  rent  in  his  demesne 
as  of  fee,  and  by  will  devised  the  same  to  Thomas  Bedyk  his  son, 
father  of  the  said  Alexander  whose  heir  he  is,  and  to  the  heirs  of  his 
body,  and  that  the  said  Thomas,  having  no  estate  therein  but  in  fee 
tail  so  that  he  might  make  no  estate  to  any  other  but  for  his  life, 
gave  the  same  to  the  said  John  contrary  to  the  form  of  the  said 
will,  as  he  is  ready  to  prove,  the  king  ordered  the  mayor  to  make 
inquisition  touching  the  circumstances  ;  and  by  inquisition  so  made 
it  is  found  that  the  said  John  acquired  the  premises  to  him,  his 
heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  said  Thomas  who  had  no  estate  therein  save  in 
fee  tail,  namely  that  the  said  Henry  was  theieof  sometime  seised,  and 
by  will  proved,  publislied  and  enrolled  in  the  busting  of  London 
holden  on  Monday  before  St.  Dunstan  in  the  9th  year  of  the  reign, 
devised  the  said  rents,  among  others  which  he  had  in  the  city  and 
suburb  of  London,  to  the  said  Thomas  and  to  the  heirs  of  his  body, 
with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  John  son  of  the  said  Henry 
and  to  the  heirs  of  his  body,  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to 
the  next  heir  of  the  testator's  blood,  that  by  virtue  of  this  bequest 
the  said  Thomas  after  his  father's  death  was  thereof  seised  in  fee 
tail,  having  no  other  estate  therein,  that  the  said  Jolin  after  acquired 
the  same  of  him,  and  had  no  other  estate  therein  but  by  that  purchase, 
that  the  said  Thomas  had  issue  the  said  Alexander  his  son  and  heir, 
and  that  he  is  of  the  age  of  21  years  ;  and  by  the  tenor  of  the  said 
will  sent  into  chancery  at  the  king's  command  it  is  likewise  found  that 
the  said  Henry  bequeathed  all  the  said  rents  as  aforesaid  to  the  said 
Thomas  and  the  heirs  of  his  body. 

Membrane  29. 

May  8.  To  William  de  Gunthorp  the  king's  clerk  treasurer  of  Calais,  and 

Guildford,  to  the  king's  searcher  there.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  de 
Gisburn  of  York  merchant,  if  assured  by  certificate  of  the  collectors 
of  customs  in  the  port  of  Kjmgeston  upon  Hull  that  in  the  said  port 
he  laded  in  a  ship  called  '  la  Edmund  '  of  Herwych  15  sarplers  of  wool 
containing  30  sacks  16  stone  of  wool  and  no  more,  and  well  and  truly 
paid  the  customs  and  subsidy  thereupon  due,  and  that  7  sarplers 
thereof  were  omitted  in  the  letters  of  cocket  by  fault  of  the  writer 
and  not  otherwise,  to  cause  those  7  sarplers  by  them  arrested  to  be 
dearrested  and  delivered  to  him,  the  omission  notwithstanding  ;  as 
his  petition  shews  that  he  lately  laded  15  sarplers  as  aforesaid  to  bring 
to  Calais  and  make  his  advantage  thereof,  and  that  though  he  paid 
to  the  said  collectors  the  customs  and  subsidy  due  upon  30  sacks  16  stone 
of  wool,  because  by  negligence  of  the  writer  but  8  sarplers  of  wool 
containing  30  sacks  16  stone  are  specified  in  the  letters  of  cocket 


228 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1371. 


May  4. 
Guildford. 


May  20. 

Westminster. 


July  5. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  29 — coiit. 

concerning  the  lading  and  customing  thereof,  the  treasurer  and  .searcher 
have  arrested  as  forfeit  and  are  detaining  under  arrest  the  remaining 
7  sarplers  so  omitted,  praying  for  remedy.  By  C. 

To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order,  if  assured 
that  Reynold  Loue  has  goods  and  chattels  sufficient  for  levying  his 
debt  of  74/.  lOs.  8rf.  due  to  the  king,  to  arrest  all  his  goods  and  chattels 
in  whose  hands  soever  they  shall  be  found,  and  to  levy  thereof  that 
sum  to  the  king's  use,  making  answer  for  it  to  the  king,  and  if  the  same 
be  not  sufficient  to  cause  that  wliich  shall  lack  to  be  levied  of  the  goods 
and  chattels  of  William  de  Swalclif  ;  as  the  said  Reynold  is  bound  in 
the  said  sum  payable  to  the  king  in  his  chamber,  as  Helm^Tig  Leget  the 
king's  esquire  receiver  of  his  said  chamber  has  witnessed,  although  at 
the  suit  of  the  said  Reynold,  averring  tliat  the  said  William  is  bound 
to  him  in  68/.,  and  scheming  to  debar  him  from  his  due  has  fled  to 
Westminster  to  obtain  the  sanctuary  of  holy  church  with  intent 
to  remove  all  his  goods  and  chattels  which  are  in  the  city  of 
London,  and  praying  the  king's  aid  in  levying  the  said  debt,  the  king 
ordered  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London,  if  lawfully  assured  that 
the  said  William  is  bound  to  the  said  Reynold  in  68/.,  to  cause  all 
his  goods  and  chattels  in  the  said  city  to  be  arrested  and  that  sum 
to  be  thereof  levied,  and  answer  to  be  made  for  it  in  the  king's  chamber 
in  part  of  the  said  greater  sum  due  from  the  said  Reynold,  any  extent 
thereof  made  by  virtue  of  any  former  writ  to  them  addressed  notwith- 
standing. 

To  brother  William  Wymeswold  canon  of  the  house  of  St.  Gilbert 
of  Sempyngham.  Order  at  his  peril  to  be  in  chancery  in  person  in 
the  quinzaine  of  Trinity  next  to  answer  touching  the  matter  hereinafter 
mentioned  and  other  matters  which  shall  be  laid  against  him  on  the 
king's  behalf,  and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  shall  by  the  king 
and  council  be  ordered,  bringing  this  writ  ;  as  lately  the  king  caused 
proclamation  to  be  made  throughout  all  the  kingdom  forbidding 
any  man  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition  openly  or  secretly  without 
his  special  licence  under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof  to  take  or  send  to 
foreign  parts  gold  or  silver  in  the  lump,  in  money  or  in  the  plate  or 
letters  of  exchange  ;  and  the  king  is  informed  that  the  said  William 
has  oftentimes  sent  over  divers  sums  of  money  as  well  by  letters  of 
exchange  as  without  such  letters  to  the  master  of  the  order  of 
Sempyngham  dwelling  over  seas  in  contempt  of  the  king  and  contrary 
to  the  proclamation  ;  and  the  king's  will  is  that  such  contempt 
pass  not  unpunished. 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

To  Adam  de  Leverton  and  John  Donesby  canons  of  the  said 
house. 

To  brother  John  de  Whiteby  canon  of  the  said  house. 


Membrane  28. 

May  29.  To  the  arrayers  of  men  at  arms,  armed  men,  hobblers  and  archers 

Westminster,  in  Kent.     Order  not  to  compel  William  Halden  recorder  of  the  city 

of  London  to  dwell  with  his  household  upon  the  safe  guard  of  the  sea 

coast  in  Kent,  releasing  any  distress  made  for  that  cause  ;  as  the  said 

William  may  not  conveniently  absent  himself  from  his  office.     By  C. 


45    EDWARD    III. 


229 


1871. 

May  23. 

Westminster. 


June  12. 
^^'incheste^. 


Membrane  28 — cont. 

To  Thomas  de  Musgrave  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  not  to 
nu'ddlc  fiirtlier  with  the  manors  of  Paddokthorp  and  Hesill  taken  into 
the  king's  haml  by  the  death  of  VViUiam  de  Ferrariis  of  Groby  knight, 
dehvering  to  Margaret  late  his  wife  and  sometime  wife  of  Robert 
de  I'nifraniville  knight  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  William 
at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as 
of  fee,  but  held  the  said  manors  in  right  of  the  said  Margaret,  who 
held  them  as  jointly  enfeoffed  with  the  said  Robert,  and  that  the  same 
are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

Vacated,  because  otherwise  below. 

To  Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Order  not  to  meddle 
further  with  the  manor  of  Stalyngburgh,  the  sheepfolds  and  300  acres 
of  meadow  therein  excepted,  which  manor  w'as  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  William  de  Ferrariis  of  Groby  knight,  delivering 
to  Margaret  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  William 
at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as 
of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  held  the  said  manor  with  the  exceptions 
aforesaid  in  right  of  the  said  Margaret,  who  held  the  same  as  jointly 
enfeoffed  with  Robert  de  Umframville  her  first  husband  of  the  gift 
of  Gilbert  de  Umframville  earl  of  Angos  made  with  the  king's  licence 
to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  the  said  manor  is  held 
in  chief  by  knight  service  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  the  fealty  of  the 
said  Margaret. 

Vacated. 

To  Guy  de  Brien  and  to  Walter  de  Hanlegh  and  Walter  de  Wodebergh 
the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms.  Order  to  stay  the  taking  of  the  lands, 
goods  or  chattels  of  any  men  whatsoever  in  the  counties  of  Somerset, 
Dorset,  Devon,  Cornwall,  Gloucester  and  Suthampton  into  the  king's 
hand,  and  the  choosing  or  taking  of  any  men  dwelling  within  six 
leagues  from  the  sea  for  furnishing  the  ships  which  the  king  has 
appointed  to  sail  upon  his  service  in  the  company  of  the  said  Guy 
to  resist  the  malice  of  his  enemies,  restoring  and  delivering  up  any 
lands,  goods  or  chattels  so  seized  together  with  the  issues  thereof 
taken,  dearresting  and  setting  free  all  men  by  them  arrested  who 
dwell  w  ithin  six  leagues  from  the  sea,  although  lately  by  letters  patent 
the  king  appointed  them  jointly  and  severally  by  themselves  and 
their  deputies  to  choose  and  take  in  the  said  counties  within  liberties 
and  without  as  many  men  at  arms,  armed  men,  archers  and  seamen 
as  should  be  sufficient  for  the  furnishing  and  defence  of  the  said  ships, 
as  well  of  those  arrayed  by  the  arrayers  of  men  at  arms,  armed  men 
and  archers  in  those  counties  as  others,  men  in  the  retinue  of  lords 
excepted,  to  put  them  upon  the  said  ships  to  sail  at  the  king's  wages 
in  the  company  of  the  said  Guy,  and  to  arrest  and  take  all  who  should 
be  found  rebellious  to  them  or  any  of  them,  seizing  into  the  king's 
hand  their  lands,  goods  and  chattels  and  committing  their  bodies 
to  prison  there  to  abide  until  the  king  should  take  other  order  concerning 
their  punishment  ;  as  it  seems  to  the  king  and  council  that  their  said 
commission  issued  in  error  in  regard  to  the  taking  or  seizure  of  the 
lands,  goods  and  chattels  of  any  men  in  the  said  counties,  and  the 
arrest  and  taking  of  men  who  dwell  within  six  leagues  from  the  sea 
in  order  to  sail  as  aforesaid. 


230 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1371. 

June  14. 

Winchester. 


June  20. 
\Vinchester. 


Membrane  28 — cont. 

To  William  de  Wyndesore  the  king's  lieutenant  in  Ireland.  Order, 
upon  the  petition  of  the  prior  of  Lantliony  by  Gloucester,  if  he  or 
one  of  the  canons  his  fellows  being  his  proctor  shall  well  and  truly  pay 
the  tenths  and  other  aids  for  the  defence  of  Ireland  and  shall  find  other 
the  charges  whatsoever  incumbent  upon  him  for  that  purpose  by 
reason  of  his  lands  and  possessions  there,  as  do  other  men  of  religion 
who  dwell  continually  in  Ireland,  to  suffer  him  by  himself  or  his  proctor 
without  let  to  take  and  send  or  bring  to  England  for  his  maintenance 
and  the  maintenance  of  his  convent  all  issues  and  protits  of  the  said 
lands  and  possessions  over  and  above  the  said  charges  and  aids, 
disposing  thereof  freely  at  his  own  pleasure  as  he  used  to  do  before 
the  late  ordinance,  his  absence  from  Ireland  notwithstanding  ;  as  his 
petition  shews  that  he  finds  a  canon  his  proctor  dwelling  continually 
upon  his  lands  and  possessions  in  Ireland  temporal  and  spiritual  at 
his  house  of  Deuelek  co.  Meath,  and  has  so  done  from  the  date  of  the 
said  ordinance  made  by  the  king  and  council  and  sent  to  the  lieutenant, 
commanding  every  lord  and  all  others  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition 
who  have  lands  in  Ireland  to  draw  thither  and  there  make  their  abode 
for  the  defence  thereof,  or  in  their  stead  to  send  other  men  sufficient 
for  the  purpose,  that  his  said  proctor  has  paid  the  tenths  and  aids 
granted  for  defence  of  Ireland,  and  has  borne  other  the  said  charges 
whatsoever,  praying  licence  to  bring  to  England  the  residue  of  the 
issues  and  profits  of  his  lands  and  possessions  arising  over  and  above 
such  tenths,  aids  and  charges,  or  otherwise  to  make  his  advantage 
thereof. 

To  William  de  Chorley  escheator  in  Lancashire.  Order  to  cause 
John  de  Chaderton  and  Katherine  his  wife  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage 
and  6  acres  of  land  in  Ines  Blundell  held  by  Wilham  son  and  heir  of 
Richard  Elynson  of  Ines  outlawed  for  felony  it  is  said,  and  John 
Blundell  of  Crosseby  of  3  acres  of  land  in  Crosseby  likewise  held  by 
the  said  W^ilham  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by 
the  escheator,  that  the  premises  have  been  in  his  hand  a  year  and  a 
day  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  that  the  said  Wilham  held  the  said 
messuage  and  6  acres  of  the  said  John  and  Katherine,  and  the  said 
3  acres  of  the  said  John  Blundell,  and  that  Henry  de  Chaderton  had 
the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste  thereof,  and  ought  to  answer  to 
the  king  for  the  same. 


Membrane  26.* 

June  1 .  To  John  de  Neville  admiral  of  the  fleet  from  the  mouth  of  the  Thames 

Westminster,  northward  or  to  his  lieutenant,  and  to  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Sandwic. 
Order,  under  pain  of  forfeiture,  to  cause  a  ship  of  Genoa  {Janua)  by 
certain  the  king's  subjects  taken  at  sea  and  brought  to  Sandwic,  the 
goods  and  merchandise  therein,  to  be  safe  kej^t  under  arrest  in  that  port 
without  removing  aught,  until  the  king  be  fully  certified  whether 
the  same  are  of  merchants  of  Genoa  and  of  Plesencia  of  his  friendship 
or  belong  to  his  enemies,  setting  free  meanwhile  from  prison,  where 
he  is  detained  it  is  said,  Anthony  de  Aurea  master  or  owner  (patronum) 
of  the  said  ship,  treating  him  and  other  the  merchants  and  seamen 
thereof  with  favour  until  further  order,  and  with  all  speed  certifying 
in  chancery  under  their  seals  concerning  the  premises  and  all  their 
action  in  that  behalf ;    as  the  king  has  learned  that  the  said  ship  being 


*  Membrane  27  is  blank. 


45    EDWARD    HI.  231 


1371.  Membrane  26 — cont. 

freighted  with  goods  and  merchandise  of  the  said  merchants  on  its 
voyage  towards  Lescluse  in  Flanders  was  taken  as  aforesaid  contrary 
to  the  agreement  between  the  king  and  the  Genoese,  wherefore  the 
said  merchants  have  prayed  for  remedy. 

May  30.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order,  upon  the 

Westminster,  petition  of  Agnes  who  was  wife  of  Jolm  Mautravers  the  elder  and 
is  his  executrix,  to  stay  until  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  next  their 
demand  upon  her  made  by  exchequer  summons  for  the  issues  of  the 
manor  of  Hathgell  co.  Lymerik  or  an  account  thereof,  that  being 
meanwliile  more  fully  certified  touching  a  process  thereupon  had, 
the  king  may  cause  what  should  further  be  done  by  the  law  and  custom 
of  England  to  be  done  for  her  discharge  ;  iis  lately  upon  the  finding 
of  an  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  Nicholas  de 
Bekenesfeld  then  escheator  in  Ireland  and  returned  in  the  chancery 
of  England,  that  John  Mautravers  the  younger  at  his  death  held  the 
said  manor  in  chief  by  knight  service  for  term  of  his  life  by  demise 
of  the  said  John  the  elder  with  reversion  to  John  the  elder  and  his 
heirs,  at  the  suit  of  John  the  elder  in  chancery  in  the  octaves  of  the 
Purification  in  the  37th  year  of  his  reign,  averring  that  the  same 
is  held  of  the  countess  Dessemund  as  of  her  manor  of  Inskysty  and 
not  of  the  king,  the  king  sent  the  record  and  process  of  the  business 
to  be  debated  before  the  justices  appointed  to  hold  pleas  which  follow 
his  justiciary  of  Ireland  because  of  the  allegation  that,  as  found  by 
the  said  inquisition,  it  is  held  of  the  king  and  without  his  licence  was 
aliened  by  the  said  John  the  elder  to  John  the  younger  for  his  life, 
meanwhile  by  letters  patent  committing  the  keeping  thereof  to  John 
the  elder  according  to  the  statute,  so  that  answer  should  be  made 
to  the  king  at  the  exchequer  of  Dublin  for  the  issues  or  the  value 
thereof  if  it  should  be  determined  that  the  said  manor  or  the  keeping 
thereof  ought  to  pertain  to  the  king  ;  and  now^  by  plaint  of  the  said 
Agnes  the  king  has  learned  that,  though  it  \\as  found  by  due  process 
in  Ireland  made  that  the  said  manor  is  not  held  in  chief  as  by  the 
said  inquisition  supposed,  and  though  by  that  process  the  same  was 
delivered  to  the  right  heirs  of  the  said  John  the  elder,  and  therefore 
no  issues  thereof  ought  by  law  to  pertain  to  the  king,  the  treasurer 
and  the  barons  are  distraining  her  to  render  account  at  the  exchequer 
of  England  for  the  issues  or  the  value  of  the  said  manor  so  long  as  it 
was  in  her  husband's  keeping  by  the  said  commission,  w'herefore  she 
has  prayed  that  the  process  in  Ireland  for  livery  thereof  out  of  the 
king's  hand  be  sent  into  the  chancery  of  England,  and  for  a  stay  of  the 
said  distress. 

To  the  chancellor  of  Ireland,  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the 
exchequer  there,  and  the  justices  appointed  to  hold  pleas  which  follow 
the  king's  lieutenant  in  Ireland.  Order,  upon  the  same  petition,  to 
search  the  rolls  and  memoranda  as  well  of  the  chancery  and  treasury 
of  Ireland  as  of  pleas  there  held  before  the  king,  and  under  the  seal 
used  in  Ireland  to  certify  in  the  chancery  of  England  what  they  shall 
there  find  concerning  the  matters  hereinafter  rehearsed  and  the 
circumstances  relating  to  the  manor  of  Rathgell,  sending  again  this 
writ  ;  as  lately  etc.  (as  above,  down  to)  pertain  to  the  king,  the  said 
Agnes  is  distrained  to  render  etc.  wherefore  etc.  {as  above)  ;  and  the 
king  would  be  more  fully  certified  touching  the  premises. 


232 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1871. 


Membrane  25. 


May  20.  To  John  atte  VVelde  escheator  in  Essex.  Order,  in  the  presence  of 
Westminster.  Luke  de  Ponynges  to  whom  the  king  has  committed  the  wardsliip  of 
the  lands  of  VVilham  de  Ferariis  of  Groby  knight  tenant  in  chief, 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage 
of  his  heir,  to  hold  until  the  said  heir's  lawful  age,  if  being  warned 
he  will  attend,  to  assign  to  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  the  said  William 
dower  of  the  said  lands,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be 
enrolled  in  chancery ;  as  the  king  has  taken  of  the  said  Margaret  an 
oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  his  licence. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

John  Rous  escheator  in  Warwickshire  and  Leycestershire. 

William  de  Chorleye  escheator  in  Lancashire. 

John  Froille  escheator  in  Oxfordshire. 

John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire  and  Cambridgeshire. 

Simon  Warde  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire. 

William  Banastre  escheator  in  Salop  and  Staffordshire. 

June  2.  To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.     Whereas  the  king  has  learned  that 

Westminster,  the  abbot  of  Eynesham  is  before  them  impleading  John  Smyth 
and  certain  others  in  the  writ  named  for  an  alleged  trespass,  averring 
that  with  certain  cattle  they  depastured,  trampled  and  consumed  his 
com  and  grass  lately  growing  at  Eynesham  to  the  value  of  200^, 
and  committed  other  grievous  acts  to  his  hurt  and  against  the  peace, 
and  whereas  the  said  defendants  in  pleading  have  alleged  that  as 
to  the  count  of  force  and  arms  they  are  not  guilty,  that  the  king  is 
lord  of  the  manor  of  Hanbergh  and  they  are  his  tenants  therein,  that 
the  place  where  the  said  abbot  avers  that  the  trespass  was  committed 
is  a  hamlet  called  Tilgerdesle  within  the  bounds  of  the  town  of 
Eynesham,  within  which  hamlet  the  defendants  as  pertaining  to  their 
several  tenements  in  Hanbergh  have  common  with  all  manner  of 
their  cattle  as  well  upon  the  wastes  as  upon  the  lands,  meadows  and 
pastures  thereof,  to  wit  upon  the  wastes  and  pastures  every  year 
during  the  whole  of  the  year,  upon  the  arable  lands  after  the  reaping 
and  carrying  of  the  corn  until  the  new  sowing  and  every  third  year 
in  time  of  fallow  during  the  whole  year,  and  upon  the  meadows  after 
the  lifting  and  carrying  of  the  hay  until  the  Purification,  and  that 
they  and  all  other  the  tenants  of  their  said  tenements  in  Hanbergh 
time  out  of  mind  were  seised  of  that  common  as  in  right  of  the  king 
and  of  his  forefathers,  as  they  are  ready  to  prove,  and  without  the 
king  may  not  prosecute  the  proof,  craving  his  aid  ;  and  whereas  the 
abbot  has  denied  their  allegation  that  they  have  common  in  form 
aforesaid,  and  the  justices  by  reason  of  the  same  allegation  have  put 
off  hitherto  proceeding  to  take  the  proof  aforesaid,  wherefore  the 
abbot  has  prayed  the  king  to  bid  them  so  to  do  :  order,  if  in  the  said 
plea  there  has  been  the  process  and  allegation  above  rehearsed,  to 
proceed  with  such  speed  as  may  be  to  take  the  said  proof,  and  further 
to  do  as  should  be  done  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  the  realm, 
that  allegation  notwithstanding,  but  so  that  they  proceed  not  to 
rendering  of  judgment  without  advising  the  king. 

May  1.  To  John  atte  Wode  keeper  of  Feckenham  forest.     Order  to  take 

Westminster.  John  Mody  wherever  found,  and  cause  him  to  find  mainpernors  who 

will  mainpern  him  that  he  shall  commit  no  more  trespasses  there, 

and  will  before  the  justices  now  or  hereafter  assigned  to  punish  such 

trespasses  at  their  next  coming  in  those  parts  stand  to  law  touching 


45  EDWARD   III. 


233 


1371.  Metnbrane  25 — cont. 

tho  trospasscs  by  him  committed,  and  if  he  shall  refuse  before  the  said 
keeper,  to  commit  him  to  the  king's  prison  of  Feckenham  there  to  be 
kept  in  safe  custody  until  he  shall  so  do  of  his  ovvn  will,  bringing 
the  names  of  the  mainpernors  before  the  said  justices,  also  tliis  writ  ; 
as  the  king  has  sure  information  that  the  said  John  Mody  has  many 
times  heretofore  committed  and  does  daily  without  ceasing  commit 
great  number  of  trespasses  of  vert  and  of  venison  in  the  said  forest  and 
of  fishing  in  the  king's  fish  ponds  there,  in  contempt'  of  him.      By  K. 

June  12.  To  Adam  de  Hoghton  and  Thomas  le  Molyneu.x,  and  to  the  sheriff 
Winchester,  of  Lancastre.  Order  to  stay  altogether  the  execution  of  the  king's 
letters  patent  of  23  March  last,  appointing  them  jointly  and  severally 
to  pursue,  arrest  and  take  William  de  Chorle,  indicted  for  divers  forgeries 
and  deceits  committed  against  the  king,  his  son  John  duke  of  Lancastre 
and  others  of  his  people  in  that  county,  wherever  found  within  liberties 
or  without,  and  commanding  the  sheriff  to  keep  him  in  safe  custody  in  the 
prison  of  Lancastre  castle,  so  as  to  have  him  before  William  de  Fyn- 
cheden,  Godfrey  Foljaumbe,  William  de  Nesfeld  and  Roger  de  Fulthorp, 
whom  the  king  has  appointed  to  view  and  duly  determine  those 
indictments,  at  their  first  session  for  that  purpose,  there  to  answer 
touching  the  same  ;  as  the  said  William  de  Chorle  is  charged  by  the 
king  and  council  to  exercise  what  pertains  to  the  office  of  escheator 
in  that  county  according  to  his  commission,  and  to  execute  and  do 
certain  other  business  therein  specially  affecting  the  king,  wherefore 
the  king  has  revoked  the  said  letters  patent. 
Et  erat  patens. 

May  16.  To  the  sheriff  of  Oxford.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Walter  Halle,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified  as  the  king 
has  learned. 


June  11.         To  the  sheriff  of  Westmorland.     Like   order  to  cause   a  coroner 
Winchester,    to  be  elected  instead  of  Thomas  de  Redemane,  who  is  insufficiently 
qualified. 

June  20.  To  John  de  Neville  admiral  of  the  fleet  from  the  mouth  of  the  Thames 
Winchester,  northward,  or  to  his  lieutenant.  Order,  if  a  ship  of  Genoa  (Janua) 
whereof  Anthony  de  Aurea  is  master  and  owner  (patromis) .  the  goods  and 
merchandise  therein,  are  of  certain  merchants  of  Genoa  and  Plesencia 
and  not  of  other  merchants  of  the  king's  enemies,  to  restore  and 
deliver  the  same  to  the  said  merchants,  or  to  Palavoisin  Palavoisin 
merchant  of  Genoa  and  Nicholas  Vigochou  merchant  of  Plesencia 
their  attornej's,  and  the  goods  and  merchandise  therein  found  at 
the  time  of  capture  which  by  their  marks  they  may  prove  to  be  theirs, 
with  the  book  of  the  freight  and  other  letters  therein  found,  suffering 
them  freely  to  take  the  same  whither  thej'  will  ;  as  lately  at  the  said 
merchants'  suit,  averring  that  the  said  ship  being  freighted  with  their 
goods  and  merchandise  was  on  its  voyage  tow  ards  Lescluse  in  Flanders 
taken  at  sea  by  certain  the  king's  subjects  and  brought  to  the  town  of 
Sandewic,  the  king  commanded  the  said  admiral  or  lieutenant  to 
keep  the  same  safe  under  arrest  in  that  port  without  removing  aught 
until  the  king  should  be  more  fully  certified  whether  the  same  were 
of  the  said  merchants  or  of  his  enemies  ;  and  now  the  burgomasters, 
echevins  and  consuls  of  Bruges  in  Flanders  have  certified  the  king  that 
the  said  Anthony  is  a  merchant  of  Genoa  and  that  all  the  said  goods 


234 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1371. 


Membrane  25 — cont. 


therein  pertain  without  fraud  and  covin  to  merchants  of  Genoa  and 
Plesencia  specitied  in  tlie  book  of  the  freight  and  other  letters  therein 
found  who  are  of  the  king's  friendship,  and  not  to  other  persons  who 
are  of  his  enemies,  wliereforc  the  said  merchants  have  prayed  the 
king  for  restitution  of  the  said  ship,  tlie  goods  and  merchandise  therein 
taken  without  lawful  cause,  the  said  book  and  letters,  and  all  the 
ship's  gear.  Proviso  that  if  any  goods  of  the  king's  enemies  shall 
be  found  therein,  the  same  shall  be  kept  under  arrest  to  the  king's 
use  until   further  order. 

July  12.  To  Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.     Order,  if  the  manor 

Westminster,  of  Fraunton  be  in  the  king's  hand  for  the  cause  hereinafter  mentioned 
and  for  none  other,  to  deliver  the  same  to  Ingelram  de  Coucy  earl  of 
Bedeford  and  to  Isabel  his  wife  the  king's  daughter  with  tlie  issues 
thereof  taken,  to  hold  in  name  of  wardship  until  the  lawful  age  of 
the  heir  of  John  de  Multon  knight ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inijuisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John  at  his  death  held  no  lands 
in  that  coimty  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said 
manor  by  knight  service  of  the  heir  of  John  de  Har^Tigton  a  minor 
in  the  king's  wardship,  and  that  Maud  his  daughter  is  his  next  heir 
and  of  the  age  of  three  years  and  upwards  ;  and  on  4  October  in  the 
37th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  to  the  said 
Isabel  the  w  ardship  of  all  lands  which  were  of  John  de  Haryngton 
with  the  knights'  fees,  advowsons  etc.  thereto  pertaining. 


Membrane  24. 

May  23.  To  Thomas  de  Musgrave  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  not    to 

Westminster,  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of  Paddokthorp  and  Hesill  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  William  de  Ferrariis  of  Groby 
knight,  delivering  to  Margaret  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
the  said  William  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief 
in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  manors  in  right  of  the  said 
Margaret  sometime  wife  of  Robert  de  Umframville  knight,  who  held 
the  same  as  jointly  enfeoffed  with  the  said  Robert,  and  that  they 
are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

To  W^alter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Like  order  not  to 
meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Stalyngburgh,  the  sheep  folds  and 
300  acres  of  meadow  therein  excepted  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  William  de  Ferrariis  of  Groby 
knight  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne 
as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  held  the  said  manor  with  the  exceptions 
aforesaid  in  right  of  Margaret  late  his  wife,  who  held  the  same  as 
jointly  enfeoffed  with  Robert  de  Umframville  her  first  husband,  of  the 
gift  of  Gilbert  de  L^mframville  earl  of  Angos  made  with  the  king's 
licence  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  the  same  is  held 
in  chief  by  knight  service  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  the  fealty  of  the 
said  Margaret. 

Membrane  23. 

July  12.  To  Thomas  de  Musgrave  escheator  in  Yorksliire.     Order  to  remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  20^.  a  year  of  rent 

to  be  taken  of  the  manor  of  Harwode,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof 


45    EDWARD    III. 


235 


1,371.  Membrane  23 — cont. 

taken  ;  as  it  is  found  by  incjuisition,  taken  of  his  office  by  John  de 
Scotherskelf  late  cscheator,  that  John  do  Insula  hite  h)rd  of  the  said 
manor,  who  lield  the  same  in  chief,  24  years  before  without  obtaining 
the  king's  hcence  gave  the  said  rent  to  Margaret  who  was  wife  of 
Thomas  d(>  Thwaytes  for  Iier  hfe,  and  that  for  that  cause  the  same 
was  taken  into  the  king's  haiul,  as  tlie  king  has  learned  by  plaint 
of  the  said  Margaret  ;  and  the  king  reckons  that  cau^e  insufficient. 

July  3.  To    Thomas    Chambernoun    escheator    in    Devon.     Order,    in    the 

Westminster,  presence  as  well  of  the  heirs  and  parceners  of  that  heritage  as  of  Thomas 
Stanes  to  whom  the  king  has  comniittcHl  the  wardship  of  certain  lands 
thereof,  if  being  warned  they  will  attend,  to  assign  to  Maud  who  was 
wife  of  Richard  de  Merton  tenant  in  chief  dower  of  the  knights'  fees 
and  advoMsons  of  her  said  husband  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonagt;  of  his  heir,  sending  the  assign- 
ment under  his  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

July  20.  To  John  de  Bysshopeston  escheator  in  Kent.     Order  to  remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  tenement  in 
Ospryngge  held  by  Adam  Baumford  of  Ospiyngge  and  Amice  his  wife, 
delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  since  the  said  Adam's  death  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
the  said  Adam,  who  on  Monday  after  Midsummer  in  the  43rd  year 
of  the  reign  was  outlawed  in  Kent  for  felony  for  slaying  Richard 
Frere,  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demense 
as  of  fee,  but  that  before  the  commission  of  that  felony  he  and  the 
said  Amice  held  the  premises  of  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Faveresham 
in  right  of  the  said  Amice  (yet  living),  and  that  by  the  escheator 
answer  is  made  to  the  king  for  the  issues  thereof  from  the  date  of 
the  felony  to  the  said  Adam's  death,  who  died  on  the  eve  of  the 
Assumption  last.  Proviso  that  answer  be  made  at  the  exchequer 
for  the  said  issues  from  the  date  of  the  felony  to  the  eve  of  the 
Assumption  aforesaid. 

April  28.         To  the  sheriff  of  Warrewyk.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Ralph  Pecche,  who  has  no  lands  whereof  he  may   answer 
to  the  king  or  his  people  according  to  the  statute,  as  the  king  has 
learned. 

April  20.         To  the  sheriff  of  Bedford.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  John  Child,  who  is  too  sick  and  aged  to  labour  in  the  execution 
of  that  office. 

May  18.  To  the  sheriff  of  Essex.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Robert  Clement,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

July  1.  To  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to   be 

Westminster,  elected  instead  of  Adam  de  iSigeswyk,  who  is  dead. 

June  20.         To  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  John  Brighthampton,  who  is  too  sick  and  aged  to  labour 
in  the  execution  of  that  office. 

July  5.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Robert  de  Passelewe,  who  is  so  much  occupied  with  divers 
the  king's  business  in  that  county  that  he  has  not  leisure  to  exercise 
that  office,  wherefore  the  king  has  removed  him. 


236  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  23 — eont. 

May  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Roteland.     Order  to  cause  a  verderer  in  the  forest 

Westminster,  of  Roteland  to  be  elected  instead  of  .John  d(?  Boyvylle  knight,  who 
has  no  lands  within  the  bounds  of  the  said  forest,  nor  dwells  within 
the  same  to  exercise  his  office. 

April  23.         To  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton.     Order  to  cause  a  verderer  in  the 
Westminster,  forest  of  Rokynghani  to  be  elected  instead  of  John  de  Harwedon, 
who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 


Westminster,  instead  of  Gilbert  de  Clyve,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

To  the  same.     Like  order  for  election  of  a  coroner  instead  of  Walter 
Markeley. 

Oct.  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  John  de  Bukton,  who  is  so  much  engaged  upon  certain 
business  specially  affecting  the  king  that  he  may  not  attend  to  that 
office. 

Oct.  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  Salop.     Order  for  election  of  a  coroner  instead  of 

Westminster.  John  de  Upton,  who  is  dead. 

Oct.  20.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln.     Order  for  election  of  a  coroner  instead 

Westminster,  of  Richard  Almot  of  Brandon,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Nov.  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  Westmorland.     Order  for  election  of  a  coroner 

Westminster,  instead  of  Thomas  Makado,  who  is  dead. 

Nov.  9.  To   the  sheriff  of  Cumberland.     Order  for  election   of  a  coroner 

Westminster,  instead  of  Simon  Clerc  of  Karlill,  lately  elected,  as  he  has  no  lands 
in  that  county,  nor  dwells  therein  for  exercise  of  his  office,  as  the 
king  has  learned. 

Nov.  13.         To  the  sheriff  of  Hertford  (sic).     Order  for  election  of  a  coroner 

Westminster,  instead  of  William  Deveros  of  Bodeham,  who  is  now  sheriff  of  that 

county,  wherefore  the  king  has  removed  him  from  the  office  of  coroner. 

Dec.  3.  To   the   sheriff   of  Cumberland.     Order  for  election   of  a  coroner 

Westminster,  instead  of  Roger  de  Marty ndale,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Nov.  20.         To  the  sheriff  of  W^arrewyk.     Order  for  election  of  a  coroner  instead 
Westminster,  of  John  de  Clopton,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Nov.  28.         To   the   sheriff   of   Cantebrigge.     Order   for  election   of   a  coroner 
Westminster,  instead  of  John  de  Aylesham,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

June  14.         To   the  sheriff   of  Suthampton.     Order  for  election   of  a  coroner 
Winchester,    instead  of  Stephen  de  W^elw-yk,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

July  7.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.     Order  for  election  of  a  coroner  instead  of 

Westminster.  John  de  Mapples,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Oct.  30.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.     Order  for  election  of  a  coroner  instead  of 

Westminster.  John  Spicer,  who  is  too  infirm  to  labour  in  the  exercise  of  that  office. 


45    EDWARD   III.  237 


1871.  Membrane  23 — cont. 

Nov.  3.  To  the  sheriff  of  Bukingham.     Order  for  election  of  a  coroner  instead 

Westminster,  of  John  atte  More,   who  is  dead. 

Nov.  16.         To  the  sheriff  of  Devon.     Order  for  election  of  a  coroner  instead  of 
Westminster.  Thomas   Daubemoun,   who   is  insufficiently   qualified. 

Nov.  20.         To  the  sheriff  of  Stafford.     Order  for  election  of  a  coroner  instead 
Westminster,  of  Richard  Levesone,   who  is  too  infirm  and  aged  to  labour  in  the 
exercise  of  that  office. 

Nov.  24.         To   the   sheriff   of   Notyngham.     Order  for  election   of   a  coroner 

Westminster,  instead  of  Thomas  de  Grenehull,   who  is  now  made  escheator  of  the 

county,  wherefore  he  has  not  leisure  for  exercise  of  the  office  of  coroner. 

Nov.  20.         To  the  sheriff  of  York.     Order  for  election  of  a  coroner  instead 
Westminster,  of  William  de  Lakenby,   who  is  so  much  occupied   upon  divers  the 
king's  business  in  that  county  that  he  has  not  leisure  for  the  exercise 
of  the  office  of  coroner. 

Nov.  20.         To  the  sheriff  of  York.     Order  to  cause  four  verderers  of  the  forest 

Westminster,  of  Galtres  to  be  elected  instead  of  Thomas  de  Ecton,  John  de  Hamertone, 

William  Darell,  and  Ivo  de  Thornton  ;  as  by  the  testimony  of  William 

de  Latymer  keeper  of  his  forest  beyond  Trent  the  king  has  learned 

that  they  are  insufficiently  qualified. 

To  the  sheriff  of  York.     (The  last  order  repeated  unth  slight  variation 
of  wording.) 

Membrane  22. 

June  5.  To  the  sheriff  of  Salop.     Order  to  cause  the  abbot  and  convent 

Westminster,  of  Shrewsbury  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage  and  two  carucates  of 
land  in  Drayton  by  Abbots  Eyton,  held  by  Edmund  de  Drayton 
outlawed  for  felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  sheriff,  that  the  premises  have  been  in  his  hand  a  year 
and  a  day  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  that  the  said  Edmund  held  them 
of  the  said  abbot  and  convent,  and  that  Maud  wife  of  Edmund  de 
Drayton  had  the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste  thereof,  and  ought  to 
answer  to  the  king  for  the  same. 

June  12.  To  Simon  Warde  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.  Order  to  cause 
Winchester.  John  de  Estbury  the  younger  and  Agnes  his  wife,  daughter  of  Eustace 
son  of  Nicholas  de  Burneby  tenant  in  chief  and  cousin  and  heir  of 
the  said  Nicholas,  to  have  seisin  of  her  said  grandfather's  lands  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  her  nonage ;  as  she 
has  proved  her  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken 
the  said  John's  fealty. 

The  like  to  John  Rous  escheator  in  Leycestershire. 

June  20.  To  John  Froille  escheator  in  the  county  of  Suthampton.  Order  to 
Winchester,  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  four  messuages 
and  6  acres  of  land  in  Rokeford  and  Heywode,  delivering  up  any  issues 
thereof  taken  since  the  death  of  Edmund  de  Kendale  knight  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said 
Edmund  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  his  demesne  as 
of  fee,  but  long  before  his  death  gave  the  premises  to  Philip  de  Kendale 
liis  son  and  Alice  Belowe  for  their  lives  with  reversion  to  the  said 
Edmund  and  his  heirs,  and  that  the  same  are  not  held  of  the  king. 


238 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  2\. 

June  24.  To  Master  John  de  Bolton  tho  king's  clerk,  chamberlain  of  Bercwic 
Westminster,  upon  Twede.  Order,  upon  the  petition  (jf  John  del  Charabre  of 
Newcastle  upon  Tyne  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  late  the  wife  of  William 
de  Svvynhowe  of  Berewic  upon  Twede,  to  take  of  them  security  for 
finding  a  fit  tenant  of  their  lands  and  tenements  in  the  said  town  of 
Berewic  there  continually  to  dwell,  and  for  supporting  all  charges 
falling  thereon,  and  to  cause  the  sfime  to  be  delivered  to  them  ;  as 
lately  the  king  commanded  the  said  chamberlain  to  certify  in  chancery 
the  cause  wherefore  their  said  lands  were  by  him  taken  into  the  king's 
hand,  and  he  certified  that  he  so  took  them  for  that  at  the  last  conquest 
of  the  said  town  order  was  by  the  king  and  council  taken  that  no 
man  should  have  lands  or  tenements  therein  unless  he  dwelt  in  them 
in  person,  and  for  that  the  said  John  and  Elizabeth  dwell  not  there  ; 
and  their  petition  shews  that  they  are  ready  to  find  a  sufficient  tenant 
as  aforesaid,  praying  for  restitution. 

June  12.  To  Ralph  Basset  guardian  of  the  lands  which  were  of  John  Moubray 
Winchester,  of  Axiholm  tenant  in  chief,  or  to  his  representative  in  Sussex.  Order, 
upon  the  petition  of  the  prior  and  monks  of  the  house  of  la  Sele,  to 
cause  a  tithe  of  all  rents  of  the  barony  of  Brembre  to  be  paid  them, 
as  they  and  their  ancestors  used  to  take  it  of  old  time  ;  as  their  petition 
shews  that  they  ought  to  have  that  tithe,  and  that  by  endowment  of 
the  founders  of  the  said  house  all  their  predecessors  had  the  same 
as  well  when  the  barony  was  in  the  hands  of  the  king's  forefathers 
as  when  in  the  hands  of  other  lords,  but  that  the  said  guardian  and  his 
representative  have  withdrawn  the  same  from  them,  refusing  to 
pay  it. 

June  4.  To  the  arrayers  of  nien  at  arms,  armed  men  and  archers  in  Kent. 

Westminster.  Order  not  to  compel  John  Stodeye  citizen  of  London,  dwelling  in 
that  city,  to  come  or  abide  upon  his  lands  in  Kent  by  reason  of  the 
king's  ordinance  and  proclamation,  releasing  any  distress  made  upon 
him  for  that  cause,  although  lately  order  was  by  the  king  and  council 
taken  that  all  having  lands  upon  the  sea  coast  in  Kent  should  draw 
thereto  and  there  continually  abide  with  all  their  household  for  the 
defence  and  safety  of  those  parts  against  attacks  of  the  king's  enemies, 
as  is  contained  in  the  proclamations  thereupon  made  ;  as  the  said 
John  is  by  the  king's  order  engaged  with  others  of  the  council  whereto 
he  is  sw^orn  upon  the  king's  business. 

The  following  have  the  like  writs  addressed  to  the  said  sheriff  : 

Adam  Fraunceys  citizen  of  London. 

John  Pyel  citizen  of  London. 

John  Blakchild  citizen  of  London. 

July  20.  To  the  sheriff  of  Oxford.     Order  of  the  king's  favour  to  restore  to 

Westminster.  Geoffrey  Rokele  and  William  Dulsey  clerks,  unless  they  were  fugitives, 
their  lands,  goods  and  chattels  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand  ;  as 
they  were  indicted  before  John  Knyvet  and  his  fellows,  justices 
appointed  to  hold  pleas  before  the  king,  for  robbing  a  servant  of  a 
student  of  Oxford  of  two  horses,  two  saddles  and  10a\  in  the  fields 
of  Torsmere,  and  after  at  the  request  of  John  bishop  of  Lincoln  the 
ordinary  were  to  him  delivered  according  to  the  benefit  of  clergy,  and 
have  before  him  purged  their  innocence,  as  he  has  signified  to  the 
king. 

The  like  to  John  Froille  escheator.in  Oxfordshire. 


45    EDWARD    III. 


239 


1371.  Membrane  20. 

June  23.  To  the  arrayers  of  men  at  arms,  armed  men  and  archers  in  Kent. 
Westminster.  Order  not  to  compel  John  Pecche  citizen  and  one  of  tlie  aldermen  of 
London  dwelling  in  that  city  to  come  or  abide  upon  his  lands  in  Kent 
by  reason  of  the  ordinance  and  proclamation,  releasing  any  distress 
made  upon  him  for  that  cause,  although  lately  order  was  by  the  king 
and  council  taken  that  all  having  lands  upon  the  sea  coast  in  Kent 
should  draw  towards  the  same  and  there  continually  abide  with  all 
their  household  for  the  defence  of  those  parts  against  attacks  of  the 
king's  enemies  ;  as  the  said  John  is  engaged  upon  the  business  and 
safe  guard  of  the  said  city  whereto  he  is  sworn.  Proviso  that  he 
shall  find  men  at  arms,  armed  men  and  archers  sufficient  according 
to  the  rate  of  his  holding  in  Kent  for  defence  of  those  parts  according 
to  the  ordinance. 

June  16.  To  John  Knyvet  and  Thomas  de  Ingelbj^  justices  appointed  to 
Winchester,  hold  pleas  before  the  king.  Order  by  writ  of  nisi  prius  to  cause  the 
inquisition  whereupon  William  Budde,  John  Budde,  John  Rikeraan  the 
younger  and  John  Budde  chaplain  son  of  the  said  William  have  put 
themselves  concerning  certain  felonies  and  trespasses  for  which  they 
are  indicted  before  the  king  to  be  taken  before  them  the  said  justices 
or  one  of  them. 


June  15. 

Winchester. 


June  16. 

Winchester. 


July  10. 

Westminster. 


To  the  same.  Like  order  in  regard  to  the  inquisition  whereupon 
Joan  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  de  Fymmer  of  Thorwaldby  has  put  herself, 
being  indicted  for  feloniously  breaking  a  chest  of  William  de  Thorwaldby 
and  carrying  away  a  seal,  price  40d.,  and  divers  his  chartei"s. 

To  the  same.  Like  order  in  regard  to  the  inquisition  whereupon 
Ralph  Scot  of  Welham,  William  Eyer  and  Henry  Ailward  have  put 
themselves  concerning  the  death  of  John  Martyn  of  Thorp  Langeton 
for  which  they  are  indicted. 

To  the  same.  Like  order  in  regard  to  the  inquisition  whereupon 
Joan  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  Bernard  of  Matersay  has  put  herself, 
being  indicted  for  aiding,  abetting  and  counselling  the  death  of  the 
said  Thomas,  who  was  slain  by  Richard  Page  son  of  Sara  atte  Brygge 
of  Mattersay  and  bj'  Thomas  Hert  of  Matersay. 

To  the  same.  Like  order  in  regard  to  the  inquisition  whereupon 
Nicholas  de  Derby  of  Horsleye,  John  de  Ilkeston  of  Horsleye,  Ralph 
de  Wodehouse  of  Horsleye,  Nicholas  son  of  John  de  Horsleye  and 
John  de  Burleye  have  put  themselves,  being  indicted  for  harbour- 
ing John  de  Derby  of  Horsleye  outlawed  for  the  death  of  John  Derby 
of  Duffeld.  By  C. 

To  the  same.  Like  order  in  regard  to  the  inquisition  whereupon 
Richard  Coselyn  and  Henry  Coselyn  have  put  themselves,  being 
indicted  for  harbouring  Richard  le  Wright  of  Horsleye  outlawed 
for  the  death  of  Thomas  Warde  of  Langeleye.  By  C. 


Membrane  10. 

July  12.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  stay 

Westminster,  altogether  execution  and  further  process  against  the  prior  of  Holy 


240  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  19 — cont. 

Trinity  Gippewic,  their  judgment  hereinafter  mentioned  notwith- 
standing, releasing  any  distres.s  made  upon  him  for  that  cause  ;  as 
Roger  de  Wolfreton  late  escheator  in  Suffolk  certified  in  chancery 
that  he  took  into  the  king's  hand  a  messuage,  30  acres  of  land,  7  acres 
of  meadow  and  20  acres  of  pasture  in  Gippewic  for  that  it  was  found 
before  Edmund  de  Thorp  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  make 
inquisition  in  Suffolk  concerning  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats 
and  divers  other  articles,  that  Robert  Brisete  commissary  at  his  death 
was  seized  of  the  premises  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  that  after  his  death 
the  same  came  into  the  possession  of  the  said  prior  and  the  convent, 
that  they  took  the  issues  and  profits  thereof  from  the  death  of  the 
said  Robert  until  Tuesday  after  Palm  Sunday  in  the  42nd  year  of 
the  reign,  and  that  the  said  prior's  occupation  thereof  was  in  fraud 
of  the  statute  of  mortmain  ;  and  after  the  said  prior  appearing  in 
person  in  chancery  alleged  that  with  the  king's  licence  and  not  in 
fraud  of  the  said  statute  he  acquired  the  premises  of  Robert  parson  of 
Martelesham,  Richard  Manser  chaplain  and  John  de  Hemelyngton, 
wherefore  the  king  sent  the  business  for  debate  before  him  ;  and  now 
by  a  plaint  on  behalf  of  the  said  prior  it  is  shown  the  king  that,  though 
by  an  inquisition  of  the  country,  whereupon  Michael  Skillyng  who  is 
suing  for  the  king  and  the  said  prior  put  themselves  before  the  king, 
it  is  found  that  the  premises  are  parcel  of  the  lands  contained  in  the 
king's  licence  granted  to  the  said  prior,  and  that  they  are  held  of  the 
earl  of  March  as  of  the  honour  of  Clare  and  of  the  prior  of  St.  Peter 
Gippewic  and  not  of  the  king,  as  John  Knyvet  chief  justice  has  wit- 
nessed before  the  king  in  chancery,  by  colour  of  an  inquisition 
taken  by  the  said  Edmimd  and  his  fellows  and  sent  before  them 
at  the  exchequer  by  the  king  among  other  inquisitions,  the  treasurer 
and  the  barons  by  writ  under  the  exchequer  seal  commanded  the  sheriff 
of  Suffolk  to  give  notice  to  the  said  prior  of  Holy  Trinity  to  be  before 
them  in  the  exchequer  at  a  set  day  now  past  to  shew  cause  wherefore 
the  premises  ought  not  to  be  seized  into  the  king's  hand,  and  for  that 
he  came  not  at  that  day  have  determined  that  by  his  default  the  same 
should  be  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  wherefore  he  has  prayed  for 
remedy. 

Aug.  8.  To  R.  bishop  of  Coventre  and  Lichefeld.     Order  upon  his  allegiance 

Westminster,  before  Michaelmas  next,  according  to  the  will  of  the  late  king  and  to 
the  indult  given  him  by  the  pope,  to  appropriate  to  some  ecclesiastical 
persons  for  making  and  maintaining  chantries  and  other  works  of 
piety  for  the  souls  of  the  king's  forefathers  as  hereinafter  mentioned 
the  churches  of  Cestreton  co.  Warrewyk  and  Worfeld  co.  Salop, 
knowing  of  a  surety  that  in  case  after  that  feast  the  same  be  not 
efifectually  so  appropriated  it  is  the  king's  purpose  thenceforward 
to  present  to  the  same  as  void  and  belonging  to  his  presentation, 
and  by  all  lawful  means  to  proceed  against  the  said  bishop  to  recover 
the  presentation  thereto  and  otherwise  as  shall  seem  fit  to  him  and 
to  the  council,  and  certifying  in  chancery  under  seal  before  the 
Nativity  of  the  Virgin  next  what  he  will  do  in  regard  to  this  command  ; 
as  recollecting  how  the  late  king  was  desirous  that  King  Edward  I 
■  should  perpetually  be  remembered  in  prayers,  and  observing  the  zeal 
displayed  by  Walter  de  Langeton  late  bishop  of  that  see,  treasurer 
of  the  said  king  and  his  executor,  to  make  chantries  and  other  works 
of  piety  for  his  soul,  how  the  late  king  gave  to  the  said  bishop  Walter 


45   EDWARD   III. 


241 


1371.  Membrane.  19 — cont. 

and  to  his  successors  the  advowsons  of  the  said  churches  to  the  end 
tliat  lie  or  his  successors  shouM  appropriate  the  same  to  ecclesiastical 
persons,  men  of  religion,  or  others  within  that  diocese  for  the  support 
of  chantries  and  other  works  of  piety  for  the  said  king's  soul  and 
the  souls  of  his  forefathers,  how  at  the  late  king's  request  the  pope 
granted  a  faculty  for  such  appropriation  to  the  said  bishop  not 
mentioning  his  name,  and  how  the  said  bishop  Walter  having  died 
before  he  might  effect  that  purpose,  the  late  king  willing  to  accomplish 
what  they  began  after  granted  licence  to  bisliop  Roger  the  said  bishop 
Walter's  successor  or  to  his  successors  to  give  the  said  advowsons 
as  aforesaid,  and  to  the  grantees  to  receive  the  same  and  appropriate 
those  churches  in  frank  almoin,  whereof  nouglit  is  yet  done  by  the 
now  bi.shop  or  the  said  Roger  his  predecessor,  but  contrary  to  the  will 
and  intent  of  the  said  kings  fraudulently  retaining  the  said  advowsons 
in  their  hands  they  both  have  taken  no  heed  to  proceed  to  the  appro- 
priation of  the  said  churches,  whereat  the  king  is  moved  to  wrath 
not  without  cause  ;  and  though  by  reason  of  the  negligence  and  default 
of  the  bishop  and  of  his  said  predecessor  the  king  may  revoke  the  late 
king's  gift  seeing  that  it  is  notoiiously  applied  to  a  use  which  is  contrary 
to  the  will  and  purpose  of  the  grantor,  it  is  his  will  to  fulfil  the  late 
king's  pious  intention.  By  K.  and  C. 

June  13.  To  the  collectors  of  the  custom  upon  wool,  woolfells  and  hides  in  the 
Westminster,  port  of  London.  Order  to  stay  altogether  the  levying  from  merchants 
or  others  of  imposts  and  other  charges  whatsoever  upon  wools,  woolfells 
or  hides  taken  from  that  port  after  the  first  grant  of  the  subsidy 
thereupon,  suffering  the  merchants  and  others  without  let  to  take 
the  same  to  the  staple  of  Calais  quit  of  all  and  singular  such  imposts 
and  charges  after  the  said  first  grant ;  as  although  in  the  parliament 
last  liolden  at  Westminster,  at  the  petition  of  the  commons  of  England 
therein  presented,  it  was  agreed  that  no  impost  or  charge  over  and 
above  the  custom  and  subsidy  formerly  granted  thereupon  should 
without  the  assent  of  parliament  be  laid  upon  wool,  woolfells  or 
hides,  and  that  any  impost  or  charge  so  laid  upon  them  should  be 
revoked  and  annulled,  it  was  and  is  the  intent  of  the  king  and  council 
that  any  such  impost  or  charge  thereupon  laid  after  the  first  grant  of 
the  said  subsidy  be  revoked  and  annulled. 

July  11.  To  John  Olney  escheator  in  Bedfordshire.     Order  to  cause  William 

Westminster,  de  Kynwell  prebendary  of  Leghton  to  have  seisin  of  the  moiety  of  a 
messuage  in  Leghton  and  12  acres  of  land  there  held  by  John  son  of 
Richard  Byndyng  outlawed  for  felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  moiety  and  land 
have  been  in  his  hand  a  year  and  a  day  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  that 
the  said  John  held  them  of  the  said  prebendary,  and  that  the  king  had 
the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste  thereof,  and  the  escheator  ought 
to  answer  to  him  for  the  same  in  liis  account. 


July  20. 
Westminster. 


To  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln.  Order  altogether  to  remove  and  abate  a 
ferry  over  the  river  Humbre  at  Barowe  set  up  upon  the  ground  of 
the  abbot  of  Thornton,  according  to  a  judgment  of  the  justices  of  either 
Bench  ;  as  lately  it  was  found  by  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's 
command  by  Thomas  de  Kydall  knight  and  Walter  de  Kelby,  that 
Richard  earl  of  ArundeU  and  Eleanor  his  A^ife  have  and  hold  a  ferry 


CK- 16 


242  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  19 — cont. 

over  the  said  river  at  Barton  upon  Humbre  with  the  profit  thereof 
in  dower  of  the  said  Eleanor,  with  reversion  to  John  son  and  heir  of 
Henry  de  Beaumont  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  that  they  and 
all  other  tlie  lords  of  the  town  of  Barton  time  out  of  mind  have  had 
and  been  wont  to  have  the  same,  and  that  none  other  heretofore 
has  used  to  have  a  ferry  within  the  bounds  of  Radclif  and  Twygrayn, 
save  that  at  Barowehaven  within  the  said  bounds  there  is  and  ever 
has  been  an  easement  for  the  tenants  and  men  of  the  town  of  Barowe 
to  pass  themselves,  their  property  and  merchandise  over  the  said 
river,  at  their  own  costs  to  carry  them  elsewhere  at  their  pleasure, 
and  to  bring  them  thither  without  payment  of  toll  or  custom  to  the 
lords  of  Barton,  and  that  one  Thomas  Crispyn  has  now  newly,  to 
wit  on  Ascension  day  in  the  43rd  year  of  the  reign,  set  up  a  ferry 
over  the  said  river  within  the  said  bounds  at  the  town  of  Barowe  upon 
the  said  abbot's  ground,  from  that  date  and  yet  taking  the  profit 
thereof,  namely  of  one  man  passing  over  with  a  horse  2d.,  of  one  man  only 
sometimes  ^d.  and  sometimes  \d.,  and  great  number  of  profits  more, 
and  so  he  has  thereof  taken  10^.  since  that  ferry  was  set  up,  that  the 
said  new  erected  ferry  is  to  the  prejudice  of  the  said  earl  and  Eleanor 
and  to  the  disherison  of  the  said  John,  and  that  the  said  Thomas 
is  daily  withdrawing  from  the  said  ferry  of  Barton  divers  men  willing 
to  pass  over  with  horses  and  divers  goods,  bringing  them  to  the  ferry 
of  Barowe,  and  so  the  said  earl  and  Eleanor  are  losing  the  greatest 
part  of  the  profit  of  their  ferry  of  Barton,  namely  10  marks  every 
year,  wherefore  they  have  prayed  the  king  for  remedy  as  well  for 
themselves  as  for  the  said  heir  being  in  the  king's  wardship  ;  and  the 
king  by  writ  ordered  the  sheriff  to  give  notice  as  well  to  the  said 
Thomas  Crispyn  as  to  the  said  abbot  to  be  in  chancery  in  the  octaves 
of  St.  John  Baptist  last  to  shew  cause  wherefore  the  said  new  erected 
ferry  at  Barowe  should  not  be  abated  and  the  ferry  at  Barton  held 
as  of  old  time  it  used  to  be,  and  further  to  do  and  receive  as  the  court 
should  determine  in  that  behalf,  and  the  sheriff  returned  that  he 
gave  them  notice  ;  at  which  day  the  said  abbot  and  Thomas  Crispyn 
came  not,  wherefore  by  the  assent  of  the  said  justices  it  was  determined 
that  the  said  ferry  at  Barowe  be  removed  and  utterly  abated. 

Membrane  18. 

Aug.  5.  To  Nicholas  de  Audeleye,  John  Moubray  and  Richard  de  la  Bere. 

WeBtminster.  Order  to  command  the  making  henceforth  of  any  process  against  John 
prior  of  the  house  of  friars  of  the  order  of  Holy  Cross  by  the  Tower 
of  London  and  brother  Thomas  Peytevyn  late  his  fellow,  the 
publication  of  the  exigents  wherein  they  are  put  by  a  process  made 
before  the  said  Nicholas,  John  and  Richard  it  is  said,  and  of  outlawry 
against  them,  to  be  altogether  stayed,  but  to  proceed  to  the  execution 
of  their  commission  against  others  whatsoever  according  to  the  effect 
thereof  ;  as  lately  learning  by  plaint  of  Thomas  Peytevyn  knight 
that  the  said  prior  and  brother  Thomas,  Philip  Lunteleye,  William 
Golafre,  Hugh  del  Brome,  John  Kjmlet,  WiUiam  Bray  bailiflF  of 
Stepelton,  William  de  Mildenhale  and  certain  other  evildoers  and 
breakers  of  the  peace  with  arms  drawn,  being  armed  and  arrayed  in 
manner  of  war,  repaired  with  force  of  arms  to  the  said  knight's  manor 
of  Twyvord  in  Erselone  while  he  was  under  the  king's  special  protection, 
being  on  his  service  in  Aquitaine  in  the  company  of  Edward  prince  of 
Aquitaine  and  Wales,  besieged  the  said  manor,  holding  free  men  and 


45    EDWARD   III.  243 


1371.  Membrane  18 — cont. 

servants  of  the  said  knight  therein  beseiged  for  ten  days,  entered 
the  same  by  assault,  drove  thence  the  said  free  men  and  servants, 
divers  times  broke  the  said  knight's  houses  there,  took  24  oxen  and 
500  sheep  of  his  there  found,  price  120/.,  carried  away  the  said  oxen 
and  200  of  the  slicep,  killed  the  residue  of  the  said  sheep,  and  took 
and  carried  away  his  goods  and  chattels  to  the  value  of  600/.,  assaulting, 
beating,  wounding  and  abusing  tlie  said  men  and  servants  wherefore 
he  lost  their  service  a  great  while,  and  inflicting  on  hirh  other  grievous 
wrongs  contrary  to  the  said  protection,  in  breach  of  the  peace  and  of 
the  statute  for  not  carrying  arms  contrary  to  the  peace,  the  king 
not  willing  to  leave  their  contempt  and  trespasses  without  punishment 
by  letters  patent  appointed  the  said  Nicholas,  John  and  Richard 
and  two  of  them,  of  whom  John  Moubray  should  be  one,  justices 
to  make  inquisition  by  true  men  of  Herefordshire  concerning  the 
names  of  the  evildoers  who  with  the  said  prior  etc.  so  did,  and 
concerning  the  contempt  and  trespasses  aforesaid,  and  to  hear  and 
determine  the  same  ;  and  on  behalf  of  the  said  prior  and  brother  Thomas 
the  king  has  learned  that  certain  men,  scheming  to  deprive  the  said 
Thomas  late  a  friar  of  the  heritage  falling  to  him  after  the  death  of 
John  Peytevyn  his  father,  compelled  him  at  that  priory  to  take  the 
habit  of  religion  in  order  thereby  and  by  his  profession  in  the  order 
aforesaid  to  debar  him  from  action  for  his  said  heritage,  that  if  this 
was  done  it  was  done  within  his  age  of  14  years,  namely  within  the 
time  by  law  forbidden,  and  ought  to  be  reckoned  as  null,  that 
the  said  late  friar  by  compulsion  and  against  his  will  had  for  some 
time  his  conversation  in  the  said  order,  habit  and  religion,  and 
after  being  within  his  said  age  with  the  knowledge  and  by  per- 
mission of  the  said  prior  and  the  brethren  withdrew  therefrom 
as  lawful  was,  casting  off  the  habit  thereof,  and  Simon  bishop  of 
London  having  information  concerning  the  premises  commanded 
the  said  prior  and  the  convent  to  attempt,  procure  or  cause 
nothing  to  be  done  against  the  said  late  friar  at  the  cost  of  his 
freedom  as  appears  by  notarial  instruments  and  the  bishop's  letters 
produced  in  chancery,  wherefore  prayer  is  made  to  the  king  to  save 
harmless  the  said  prior  and  late  friar,  as  at  the  suit  of  the  said  knight 
the  said  justices  by  virtue  of  their  commission  have  made  and  are 
making  processes  against  them  concerning  the  said  trespass  to  their 
cost  and  grievance  and  to  the  peril  of  the  late  friar's  disherison  ;  and 
considering  the  nature  of  the  attempts  aforesaid  and  great  number 
of  other  matters  affecting  this  business  and  the  disherison  of  the  said 
late  friar  which  are  laid  before  the  king  and  council,  the  king  would 
deal  the  more  favourably  with  them.  By  C. 

Mandate  to  the  sheriff  of  Hereford  to  stay  the  publication  of  the 
exigents  and  of  outlawry  against  the  said  prior  and  Thomas  late  a 
friar. 

To  Richard  de  la  Bere  and  his  fellows,  guardians  of  the  peace  and 
justices  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  Herefordshire.  Order  to  stay 
altogether  any  further  process  against  John  prior  of  the  friars  of  the 
order  of  Holy  Cross  by  the  Tower  of  London  and  Thomas  Peytevyn 
late  a  friar  his  fellow  by  colour  of  any  indictments  before  them  made, 
but  to  send  the  king  under  their  seals  or  the  seal  of  one  of  them  the 
indictments  for  the  evildoings  whatsoever  for  which  the  said  prior 
and  Thomas  are  so  indicted  with  all  things  concerning  the  same, 


244 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371. 


Membrane  18 — cont. 


also  this  writ,  so  that  the  king  shall  have  them  in  the  octaves  of 
Michaelmas  next  and  further  deal  with  them  according  to  the  law 
and  custom  of  England,  and  to  command  the  publication  of  the  exigents 
and  of  outla^\  rj'  against  them  to  be  altogether  stayed  ;  as  on  behalf 
of  the  said  prior  and  Thomas  it  is  shewn  the  king  that  they  with  others 
are  indicted  before  the  said  justices  by  certain  their  enemies,  of  their 
malice  scheming  to  deprive  the  said  Thomas  of  the  heritage  falling 
to  him  after  the  death  of  John  Peytevyn  his  father,  for  certain  alleged 
trespasses  at  Tuyvord  in  Erselone  committed  against  Thomas  Peytevyn 
knight,  namely  the  said  prior  by  the  style  aforesaid  and  the  said  Thomas 
by  the  name  of  Thomas  Peytevyn  friar  his  fellow,  and  notwithstanding 
that  the  said  late  friar  being  within  his  age  of  14  years  with  the 
knowledge  and  permission  of  the  said  prior  and  the  brethren  of  the 
priory  as  lawful  was  cast  off  the  habit  of  religion  and  withdrew,  and 
so  remains  free  of  himself,  they  are  by  process  before  the  said  justices 
upon  the  said  indictment  put  in  exigents  to  be  outlawed  in  that  county, 
to  their  cost  and  grievance  and  the  peril  of  their  life,  wherefore  prayer 
is  made  to  the  king  to  save  them  harmless  ;  and  as  well  by  notarial 
instruments  as  by  letters  of  Simon  bishop  of  London  produced  in 
chancery  the  king  is  assured  that  the  said  late  friar  withdrew  from  the 
order  as  aforesaid  and  is  free  of  himself,  and  considering  great  number 
of  other  matters  affecting  the  business  and  his  disherison  which  are 
laid  before  the  king  and  council  the  king  would  the  more  favourably 
deal   with    them.  By   C. 

Aug.  12.         To  Richard  de  Imworth  keeper  of  the  marshalsea  prison  before  the 

Westminster,  king.     Order  to  set  free  from  prison  Robert  Sorel,  William  Vitande, 

Giles   del   Coteur,    John   Goneley   and   John   Potter   who   are   there 

imprisoned  under  his  custody  ;  as  the  king  has  given  them  licence  to 

pass  without  let  to  Flanders  by  the  river  Thames.  By  C. 

Aug.  30.  To  the  collectors  in  Lincolnshire  of  the  subsidy  last  granted  to  the 
Westminster,  king  b}'  the  clergy  of  the  province  of  Canterbury.  Order,  upon  the  peti- 
tion of  the  prior  of  Spaldyng,  if  assured  that  he  or  his  predecessors  after 
the  20th  year  of  King  Edward  I  acquired  to  them  and  their  house  certain 
lands  in  SpaldjTig,  Pyncebek  and  Multon,  and  that  the  same  are 
taxed  towards  the  subsidy  last  granted  by  the  laity,  to  stay  altogether 
their  demand  for  the  subsidy  for  the  lands  so  newly  acquired  ;  as 
his  petition  shews  that  though  he  is  ready  with  the  laity  to  pay  the 
subsidy  upon  these  lands  according  to  the  ordinance,  the  said  collectors 
without  consideration  thereof  are  endeavouring  by  ecclesiastical 
censures  to  compel  him  to  pay  to  the  king's  use  the  subsidy  granted 
by  the  clergy  for  the  said  lands,  which  are  taxed  among  the  laity, 
praying  for  remedy  ;  and  it  is  not  lawful  nor  reasonable  that  he  should 
pay  as  well  the  subsidy  granted  by  the  clergy  as  that  granted  by  the 
laity  for  the  same  lands.  Proviso  that  he  shall  pay  as  well  the  subsidy 
granted  by  the  laity  for  the  lands  newly  acquired  as  aforesaid  as  that 
granted  by  the  clergy  for  all  other  his  lands  acquired  before  the  date 
above  mentioned. 

Sept.  7.         To  the  bailiffs  of  Great  Jememuth.     Order,  if  the  men  of  Flanders 

Westminster,  imprisoned  in  that  town  shall  find  mainpernors,  for  whom  the  bailiffs 

will  answer,  that  they  will  not  leave  the  town  nor  eloign  therefrom 

any  of  their  goods  or  chattels,  to  set  them  free  from  prison,  suffering 


45    EDWARD    III. 


245 


1371.  Membrane  18 — cont. 

them  under  a  sure  mainprise  to  dwell  within  the  town  and  ply  their 
craft  there  until  further  order  ;  as  lately  the  king  ordered  the  bailiffs 
to  arrest  all  men  of  Flanders  who  were  in  the  town  and  the  suburbs 
thereof  and  all  their  goods  and  chattels  there,  and  until  further  order 
honourably  to  guard  their  bodies  and  safe  keep  their  goods  without 
removal  of  aught  as  they  would  answer  it  to  the  king  and  the  said 
men  ;  and  now  by  complaint  of  the  Flemings  dwelling  in  the  said 
town  the  king  has  learned  that  the  baiUffs  have  arrested  them  and 
are  keeping  them  in  close  custody  in  prison  contrary  to  the  intent 
of  the  king  and  council  and  to  the  form  of  the  said  command. 

Sept.  16.  To  the  collectors  of  the  petty  custom  in  the  port  of  London.  Order 
Westminstor.  to  suffer  John  Aubrey  and  John  de  Hedyngham  citizens  and  merchants 
of  London  to  lade  in  ships  in  that  port  nine  tuns  of  honey  by  them 
lately  bought  of  men  of  Janua,  and  after  payment  of  the  customs 
thereupon  due  by  themselves  or  their  servants  to  take  the  same  over 
to  Durdraght  in  Seland  in  order  to  bring  again  to  England  wine  to 
the  value  thereof,  any  proclamations,  ordinances  or  commands  to  the 
contrary  notwithstanding  ;  as  the  king  has  given  them  licence  so 
to  do. 

Membrane  17. 
Aug.  27.  To  John  atte  Welde  escheator  in  Essex  and  Hertfordshire.     Order 

Westminster,  to  suffer  the  prior  and  convent  of  Waltham  abbey,  now  void  by  the 
death  of  Thomas  de  Wolmersty  the  last  abbot,  to  have  without  let 
the  keeping  of  the  abbey  and  of  all  lands,  goods  and  chattels  thereto 
pertaining,  disposing  thereof  as  shall  seem  to  be  for  the  most 
advantage  of  the  abbey,  according  to  the  charters  of  the  king's  fore- 
fathers and  his  confirmation  thereof,  and  as  they  and  their  predecessors 
used  to  have  in  times  of  vacancies,  saving  to  the  king  the  knights' 
fees  and  advowsons  of  churches  to  the  said  abbey  belonging,  and 
the  issues  during  tliis  vacancy  of  any  lands  by  the  abbot  or  his 
predecessors  acquired  in  mortmain  since  10  March  in  the  6th  year  of 
the  reign  ;  as  among  the  other  liberties  granted  as  aforesaid  to  the 
canons  of  Holy  Cross  Waltham  it  is  granted  that  upon  the  decease 
of  the  abbot  they  shall  have  freedom  of  election,  and  that  until  they 
have  an  abbot  the  abbey  and  all  the  possessions  thereof  shall  be  in 
the  hand  and  keeping  of  the  said  canons,  and  all  rents,  issues  and 
goods  of  the  said  house  shall  by  them  be  freely  spent  to  the  use  of  the 
poor  and  the  profit  of  the  church  ;  and  on  the  date  above  mentioned 
the  king  by  charter  confirmed  the  same,  granting  further  to  the  then 
abbot  and  the  convent  that  they  and  their  successors  shall  fully  use 
and  enjoy  the  liberties  and  quittances  in  the  said  charters  contained 
though  heretofore  in  any  case  they  or  their  predecessors  used  not  any 
of  them. 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

John  Rokwode  escheator  in  Norffolk. 

John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Bedfordshire  and  Cambridgeshire. 

John  Froille  escheator  in  Berkshire. 

John  de  Bisshopeston  escheator  in  Surrey. 

Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnsliire. 

John  Bemes  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator  therein. 

May  2.  To  John  Kjiyvet  and  liis  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hold  pleas 

Westminster,  before    the    king.     Order   by   writ   of  nisi  prius,   according   to   the 


246 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371. 


Meinbrane  17 — cont. 


statutes  and  to  the  law  and  custom  of  England,  to  command  an  in- 
quisition which  remains  to  be  taken  between  the  king  and  Master 
Alexander  de  Neville  for  prosecution  of  the  execution  of  a  judgment 
rendered  before  the  king  in  liis  court  concerning  the  archdeaconry 
of  Cornwall  lately  void  and  in  the  king's  gift,  to  be  taken  before  the 
justices  of  assize  in  Cornwall.  By  C. 

Sept.  10.  To  Wilham  de  Wyndesore  the  king's  lieutenant  in  Ireland.  Order 
Westminster,  to  stay  and  altogether  cease  until  other  order  be  taken  by  the  king 
and  council,  or  until  further  instructions  be  sent  him,  the  levying  or 
collecting  of  the  sums  hereinafter  mentioned,  and  of  all  other  the 
tallages,  fines  and  imposts  by  him  unlawfully  laid  upon  the  mayor 
and  commonalty  and  upon  the  citizens  of  Dublin  in  Ireland  ;  as  by 
their  complaint  the  king  has  learned  that  the  lieutenant  on  the  king's 
behalf  ordered  the  said  mayor  and  twelve  true  men  of  the  said  city 
lately  to  come  before  him  at  Kilkenny  and  there  abide,  not  suffering 
them  to  depart  thence  until  by  duress  they  granted  for  themselves  and 
the  said  commonalty  that  100  marks  should  be  paid  him,  that  by 
writ  under  the  seal  used  in  Ireland  he  ordered  Edmund  Berle, 
Nicholas  Serjant,  William  Serjant,  Richard  Chaumberleyn,  John 
Bukeland,  Geoffrey  Gallan,  John  Foyl  and  Walter  Passavant  citizens 
of  Dublin  to  come  from  that  city  to  the  city  of  Lymeric  and  there 
to  abide  and  dwell,  there  detaining  them  until  by  a  great  sum  they 
made  fine  with  him  to  have  Hcence  to  return  thence  to  Dublin,  and 
that  at  the  last  parhament  holden  at  Balidoulle  he  unlawfully  laid 
upon  the  said  mayor  and  commonalty  a  tallage  of  200  marks,  and 
divers  other  taUages,  fines,  extortions  and  imposts  not  to  be  borne 
it  is  said,  to  the  impoverishment  of  the  king  and  his  people  of  the 
said  city  ;  and  in  consideration  of  the  hurt  and  peril  which  is  like  to 
happen  thereby  to  the  said  city  and  to  Ireland  the  king  would  make 
provision  against  the  same,  as  he  is  bound  to  do.  By  p.s.  [28820.] 

[Fcedera.] 

To  the  same.  Like  order,  mutatis  mutandis  ;  as  by  complaint  of  the 
mayor,  steward  and  commonalty  of  his  town  of  Droghda  in  Ireland 
the  king  has  learned  that  his  said  lieutenant  on  the  king's  behalf 
ordered  the  said  mayor  and  steward  and  twelve  true  men  of  the  said 
town  lately  to  come  before  him  at  Kilkenny  and  there  abide,  not  suffer- 
ing them  to  depart  thence  until  by  duress  they  granted  for  themselves 
and  the  said  commonalty  that  100  marks  should  be  paid  him,  that 
by  writ  under  the  seal  used  in  Ireland  he  ordered  Richard  Mole, 
Richard  Rath,  Thomas  Rath  the  elder,  Thomas  Asshe,  Henry 
Garnoun  and  Roger  Heyn  burgesses  of  the  said  town  to  come  thence 
to  the  city  of  Lymeric  and  there  abide  and  dwell,  there  detaining 
them  until  by  a  great  sum  they  made  fine  with  him  for  licence  to 
return  to  Droghda,  and  that  at  the  last  parliament  holden  at 
Balidoulle  he  unlawfully  laid  upon  the  said  mayor  and  steward  and 
the  commonalty  a  tallage  of  240  marks  etc.  (as  the  last). 

[Ihid.] 

Sept.  16.         To  Thomas  de  Metham  knight.     Order  upon  his  allegiance  and 

Westminster,  under  pain  of  forfeiture  forbidding  him  to  lay  upon  John   Pothowe, 

his  men  or  servants,  any  hurt,  oppression,  wrong,  threat  or  hindrance 

whereby  they  may  be  hindered  in  cpllecting  and  levying  the  subsidy 


45  EDWARD  III. 


247 


1371.  Membrane  17 — co7it. 

last  granted  to  the  king  by  the  commoas  of  England,  or  in  their  own 
business,  that  by  his  default  tlie  lev'y  or  collection  thereof  be  not 
dela3'ed,  and  no  loud  complaint  a  second  time  come  to  the  king's 
ear  by  reason  whereof  the  king  should  have  matter  of  wrath  against 
him  ;  as  the  king  by  letters  patent  has  appointed  the  said  John  with 
other  his  lieges  to  levy,  collect  and  receive  the  said  subsidy  in  York- 
shire to  the  king's  use,  by  other  letters  patent  takjng  him,  liis  goods, 
chattels  and  property  whatsoever,  his  men  and  servants  into  the  king's 
special  protection,  and  forbidding  all  and  singular  to  lay  upon  them 
wrong,  trouble,  hurt  or  grievance  ;  and  now  on  behalf  of  the  said  John 
the  king  has  learned  that  the  said  Thomas  has  sent  to  his  house  at 
Yucliet  great  number  of  armed  men,  who  by  command  of  the  said  Thomas 
a  great  while  there  besieged  the  said  John,  his  wife  and  household, 
broke  liis  gates  and  close  there,  continually  assaulted  him  and  Ms 
men  and  servants  who  were  in  the  said  house  with  intent  to  slay 
them,  grievously  wounding  four  men  of  his  said  servants,  and  drove 
thence  the  said  John,  his  wife  and  the  residue  of  his  servants,  so  that 
he,  his  wife  or  his  men  and  servants  for  fear  of  death  and  the  threats 
made  against  them  by  the  said  Thomas  and  his  accomplices  dared 
not  repair  tliither  or  elsewhere  abide  in  the  country,  nor  did  the  said 
John  dare  to  engage  in  the  collection  of  the  said  subsidy,  and  inflicted 
on  them  great  number  of  other  hurts  in  contempt  of  the  king, 
delaying  the  said  collection,  contrary  to  the  said  protection  and  in 
breach  of  the  peace  ;  and  the  king  will  not  longer  endure  the  crimes 
so  committed  in  contempt  of  him. 

Sept.  18.  To  Simon  Warde  escheator  in  Roteland.  Order  not  to  meddle 
Westminster,  further  with  the  bailiwick  of  keeping  the  king's  forest  in  Roteland 
and  with  the  manor  of  Braunston  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the 
death  of  Alice  who  was  \vife  of  John  Wardedieu,  delivering  to  the  said 
Jolin  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Alice  at  her  death  being  jointly 
enfeoffed  with  her  said  husband  (yet  living)  held  the  said  baihwick 
by  gift  of  Robert  Wardedieu  of  Bodyham  and  John  de  la  Porte  made 
with  the  king's  licence  to  them  and  the  said  John's  heirs,  and  the 
said  manor  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  to  them  and  the  heirs  of 
their  bodies,  and  that  the  said  bailiwick  is  held  in  chief  by  the  service 
of  rendering  40s.  a  year  at  the  exchequer,  the  said  manor  oi  others 
than  the  king. 

Sept,  18.  To  John  Rous  escheator  in  Leycestershire.  Order  not  to  meddle 
Westminster,  further  with  a  manor  in  Adloxton,  5  marks  of  rent  in  Carleton  Curly 
and  205.  of  rent  in  Somurdeby  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  Alice  who  was  wife  of  John  Wardedieu,  delivering  to  the  said  John 
any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Alice  at  her  death  held  no  lands 
in  that  county  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  being  jointly 
enfeoffed  A\ith  her  said  husband  held  the  said  manor  and  rents  by 
virtue  of  a  gift  made  by  Henry  W^ardedieu  and  John  Courthorp  to 
them  and  the  heirs  of  the  said  John,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of 


others  than  the  king. 


Sept.  25. 
Westminster. 


To  John  Froille  escheator  in  Berkshire.  Order  to  deliver  the  manor 
of  Mollisford,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Leonard  de 
Carreu,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken,  to  the  next  friend  of 


248  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371-  Membrane  17 — cont. 

the  said  Leonard  (sic)  to  whom  the  heritage  may  not  descend  to  be  kept 
to  the  heir's  use  according  to  the  statute  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Leonard  at  his 
death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  £is  of  fee 
by  reason  whereof  the  wardship  of  his  land  and  heir  ought  at  present  to 
pertain  to  the  king,  but  held  the  said  manor  of  the  king  in  socage 
by  the  service  of  rendering  2s.  a  year  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  for 
all  services,  and  that  Thomas  his  son  is  his  next  heir,  and  is  of  the 
age  of  one  year. 

Membrane  16. 

Aug.  26.  To  Thomas  do  Fulnetby,  William  Stayn,  Frederick  de  Tilneye,  John 
Westminster.  Hode,  William  Bus.sy  and  John  de  Welby  of  Roppesleye.  Order, 
under  pain  of  forfeiture,  on  sight  of  these  presents  forthwith  ceasing 
every  excuse  to  cause  all  and  singular  the  parishes  of  Lincolnshire  as  well 
in  the  parts  of  Holand  and  Kesteven  as  of  Lyndeseye,  within  liberties 
and  without,  to  be  apportioned  and  assessed  by  the  advice  and  at 
the  discretion  of  John  bishop  of  Lincoln,  the  abbot  of  Barlynges, 
Ralph  de  Crombewell  and  John  Paynell  w  hom  the  king  has  appointed 
in  that  county  overseers  of  the  apportionment,  assessment,  levying 
and  collection  of  the  subsidy  of  II65.  of  every  parish  lately  granted  to 
the  king,  without  favour  to  any  sparing  none  according  to  the  true 
value  of  the  lands,  goods  and  chattels  of  the  parishioners  as  well 
lords  as  labourers,  craftsmen,  workmen  and  others  of  whatsoever 
estate  or  condition,  except  the  lands  and  possessions  of  ecclesiastical 
persons  taxed  with  the  clergy  before  20  Edward  I,  and  to  cause  the 
portions  so  assessed  upon  the  parishes  to  be  levied  to  the  king's  use  of 
all  his  subjects  of  the  said  parishes  as  well  of  the  lords  of  towns  as  of  the 
labourers  etc.  without  severance  of  hundreds,  wapentakes  and  other 
places,  so  that  answer  be  made  to  the  king  for  one  moiety  thereof  at  Mar- 
tinmas next  and  for  the  other  moiety  at  Easter  following,  notwithstand- 
ing that  the  said  men  of  Holand  used  to  be  taxed  with  the  men  of 
Kesteven  in  singular  the  taxations,  tallages  and  other  charges  heretofore 
granted  to  the  king,  so  behaving  in  this  behalf  that  no  loud  complaint 
shall  a  second  time  come  to  the  king's  ear  ;  as  lately  in  aid  of  the  expenses 
which  he  must  incur  as  well  for  the  safety  and  defence  of  the  realm 
and  of  the  shipping  thereof  as  for  furtherance  of  the  war  wdth  France, 
the  earls,  barons,  lords  and  commons  of  the  realm  granted  the  king 
the  subsidy  aforesaid  to  be  levied  of  every  parish  of  the  realm,  so 
that  every  parish  of  greater  value  shall  aid  and  contribute  rateably  to 
another  of  less  value  without  severance  by  hundreds,  wapentakes  or 
otherwise  of  all  the  king's  secular  subjects  being  lords  of  towns,  manors, 
lands,  goods  and  chattels  etc.  whatsoever,  labourers,  craftsmen  and 
workmen  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition,  the  county  of  Cestre  and 
the  lands  and  possessions  of  ecclesiastical  persons  put  in  mortmain 
and  with  the  clergy  taxed  towards  the  tenth  before  20  Edward  1  being 
excepted  ;  and  wdlling  that  answer  be  made  for  the  same  the  king 
by  letters  patent  appointed  the  said  Thomas  and  the  others  named 
five,  four,  three  and  two  of  them,  to  assess,  levy  and  collect  as  afore- 
said in  Lincolnshire  (with  the  above  exception)  3,636^.  12s.  whereat 
are  assessed  the  parishes  thereof  within  liberties  and  without  according 
to  the  apportionment  by  the  number  of  parishes  returned  in  chancery  ; 
and  now  by  plaint  of  the  men  of  Lyndeseye  the  king  has  learned  that, 
though  the  parishes  in  the  parts  of  Holand  are  of  greater  value  than 


45  EDWARD  III. 


249 


1371. 


Membrane  16 — cont. 


those  in  the  parts  of  Lyndeseye  and  Kesteven,  the  men  of  Holand 
altogether  refuse  to  contribute  aught  in  aid  of  the  men  of  Lyi^<^leseye, 
though  one  parish  in  the  parts  of  Holand  exceeds  the  value  of  many 
parishes  in  the  parts  of  Lyndeseye,  for  that  in  singular  the  aids, 
tallages  and  other  charges  heretofore  granted  to  the  king  by  the 
commons  of  the  realm  tliey  used  to  be  taxed  (it  is  said)  with  the  men 
of  Kesteven  and  not  with  the  men  of  Lyndeseye,  to  -the  hurt  of  the 
men  of  Lyndeseye  and  delay  of  the  levy  aforesaid  and  contrary  to  the 
purpose  of  the  grant,  wherefore  the  king  is  moved  to  anger  ;  and  it 
is  his  will  that  the  subsidy  be  levied  in  accordance  w4th  the  grant. 

Mandate  to  the  said  bishop,  abbot,  Ralph  and  Jolin  Paynell,  over- 
seers of  the  assessment  and  levying  of  the  said  subsidy,  to  cease  every 
excuse  and  oversee  the  apportionment,  assessment  and  levy  thereof, 
so  that  it  be  assessed  evenly  upon  the  men  of  the  parishes  of  that 
county  without  severance  of  hundreds,  wapentakes  or  other  places 
whatsoever,  or  favour  to  any  person.  By  C. 

Aug.  28,  To  the  alderman  and  all  the  commonalty  of  the  town  of  Grantham. 

Westminster.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  the  abbot  of  Croxton,  collector  in  Lincoln- 
shire, Leycestershire  and  Roteland  of  the  subsidy  last  granted  to  the 
king  by  the  clergy  of  the  province  of  Canterbury,  to  deliver  to  the 
said  abbot  a  strong  and  sure  house  in  that  town  for  keeping  the  money 
from  the  said  subsidy  arising,  as  they  will  answer  it  before  the  king 
himself,  causing  him  upon  warning  received  to  have  the  king's  safe  and 
sure  conduct  for  himself,  liis  men,  horses,  harness  and  property  coming 
to  the  said  town  with  such  money  and  thence  returning  to  his  own 
again  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  his  abbey  is  situate  in  a  rural  place 
far  distant  from  other  towns  in  every  direction,  and  that  he  has  no 
sure  place  to  keep  the  said  money,  praying  that  a  strong  house  in 
the  said  town  be  appointed  for  the  purpose. 

Sept.  10.  To  the  justices  of  the  Common  Bench  in  Ireland.  Order,  upon  the 
Westminster,  petition  of  Thomas  Bache  the  king's  clerk,  parson  of  Kilbery  in  the 
diocese  of  Meath,  to  continue  in  the  same  state  as  it  now  is  until 
debate  be  had  in  chancery  between  the  king  and  the  said  Thomas 
concerning  the  revocation  of  a  confirmation  of  his  estate  in  the  said 
church  made  by  the  king,  or  until  further  order,  a  process  pending 
before  the  said  justices  between  the  king  and  Miles  Rodipak  and  the 
said  Thomas  ;  as  on  22  December  last,  desiring  to  make  provision 
for  his  security,  the  king  confirmed  the  estate  of  the  said  Thomas  as 
aforesaid,  willing  that  he  should  not  in  time  to  come  be  impeached  or 
troubled  by  the  king,  his  heirs  or  ministers  whatsoever  touching  his 
possession  thereof  by  reason  of  any  right  or  title  now  or  hereafter 
vesting  in  the  king  or  his  heirs  ;  and  after  on  being  informed  that  he 
was  deceived  therein,  for  that  the  confirmation  was  by  untrue  sugges- 
tion granted  to  his  prejudice  and  to  the  disherison  of  the  heir  of  Peter 
le  Butiller  who  acquired  the  said  advowson  of  the  said  Miles  in  fee, 
being  a  minor  in  his  wardsliip,  the  king  ordered  William  de  Wyndesore 
his  lieutenant  in  Ireland  to  give  notice  to  the  said  Thomas  to  be  before 
him  in  the  chancery  of  England  in  the  quinzaine  of  Micliaelmas  next 
to  shew  cause  wherefore  that  confirmation  ought  not  to  be  revoked, 
and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court  should  determine  in  that 
behalf  ;  and  now  the  said  Thomas  has  prayed  the  king  for  a  stay  of  the 
said   plea   pending    before   the   justices    against   the  said  Miles  and 


250 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371. 


Membrane  16 — cont. 


Thomas,  that  they  shall  suffer  the  king  to  present  to  the  said  church, 
until  the  process  pending  without  debate  in  chancery  concerning  the 
said  revocation  shall  be  determined. 

The  like  to  the  justices  appointed  to  hold  pleas  wliich  follow  the 
king's  lieutenant  in  Ireland. 

Sept.  14.  To  the  executors  of  Robert  Ruthyn,  subconstable  of  Alan  de  Buxhull 
Westminster,  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London  who  is  afar  off.  Order  to  deliver 
by  indenture  to  Walter  de  Chippenham  the  prisoners  in  the  said 
Tower,  the  keys  and  all  other  things  in  their  keeping  which  concern 
the  said  office  ;  as  the  king  has  appointed  him  to  do  all  things  which 
pertain  to  the  office  of  constable  until  the  coming  of  the  said  Alan  to 
England,  or  until  further  order.  It  is  the  king's  will  that  the  said 
executors  be  discharged  toward  him. 

Sept,  26.  To  John  Froille  escheator  in  the  county  of  Suthampton.  Order  to 
Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of 
Aunedeport,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  Leonard  de 
Carreu  at  liis  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee,  but  long  before  liis  departure  from  England  over 
sea  made  a  feoffment  of  the  said  manor  to  Hugh  Harston,  Ralph 
Clatford,  Thomas  Stone  chaplain  and  John  Matesford,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  and  that  it  is  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

To  Thomas  Chaumbernoun  escheator  in  Devon.  Order  to  remove 
the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  lands  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Leonard  de  Carreu,  dehvering  up  any 
issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Leonard  at  his  death  held  no  lands 
in  that  county  in  chief  nor  of  others  in  liis  demesne  as  of  fee,  but 
long  before  his  death  made  a  feoffment  of  all  his  lands  in  Devon  to 
Thomas  Stone  parson  of  Combe  Ralegh,  John  Mattesford,  Hugh 
Harstoun  and  Ralph  Clattesford,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  and  that 
the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

Nov.  26.  To  John  Knyvet  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hold  pleas 
Westminster,  before  the  king.  Order  by  writ  of  nisi  prius  according  to  the  statutes 
to  command  that  an  inquisition  which  remains  to  be  taken  before 
them  between  the  king  and  Thomas  bishop  of  Durham  and  John  de 
Henle  clerk,  namely  whether  a  judgment  rendered  before  the  king 
that  the  said  bishop  should  suffer  him  to  present  to  the  church  of 
Hoghton  has  been  executed  or  no,  be  taken  before  one  of  the  king's 
justices.  By  K. 

Membrane  15. 

July  30.  To  the  customers  in  the  port  of  London  for  the  time  being.     Order 

Westminster  and  charge,  if  Richard  earl  of  Arondell  and  Surreye  be  not  yet  contented 
Palace.  Qf  ^yhat  is  due  to  him  by  the  indentures  hereinafter  recited,  to  suffer 
him  or  his  deputies  to  levy  and  have  2  J  marks  of  every  sack  of  wool 
laded  in  that  port  until  he  be  so  contented  ;  as  the  king  with  a  number 
of  prelates,  earls,  lords,  knights,  clerks  and  other  his  lieges  is  bound 
to  the  said  earl  in  20,000/.  of  him  received  by  name  of  a  prest,  to  be 
paid  to  the  said  earl  or  his  deputies  at  the  feasts  of  the  Ascension  and 


45  EDWARD  III. 


251 


1371. 


Membrane  15 — cont. 


of  St.  John  Baptist  next,  for  payment  whereof  the  king  and  they  have 
given  tlieir  bond  in  20,000  marks,  and  for  other  10,000  marks  the  king 
and  any  his  officers  are  bound  hkewise  to  pay  2|  marks  a  sack  of 
the  customs  and  subsidies  upon  wool  laded  in  the  said  port,  as  in  the 
said  indentures  is  contained,  wherefore  on  3  August  last  the  king 
*  commanded  and  charged  the  said  customers  to  view  the  said  indentures, 

and  to  suffer  tlic  said  carl  and  his  deputies  to  levy  2i  marks  of  every 
such  sack  from  that  time  to  the  feast  of  St.  John  Baptist  following 
until  contented  as  aforesaid.     French. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Aug.  10.  To  William  Banastre  escheator  in  Salop.     Order  to  take  the  fealty 

Westminster,  of  Robert  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Scint  George,  tenant  by  knight 
service  of  the  heir  of  Roger  do  Mortuo  Mari  carl  of  March  tenant  in 
chief  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  according  to  the  form  of  a 
schedule  enclosed,  and  to  cause  him  to  have  seisin  of  his  said  father's 
lands  which  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of 
the  said  Robert's  nonage ;  as  he  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator. 


Sept.  8.  To  W.  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and  to  the  collectors  in  the  diocese 

Westminster,  of  Canterbury  of  the  subsidy  last  granted  to  the  king  by  the  clergy  of 
that  province.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  the  brethren  of  the 
Hospital  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  if  assured  that  the 
brethren  have  heretofore  paid  the  fifteenths  and  all  other  charges  and 
subsidies  granted  to  the  king  and  his  forefathers  for  all  their  lands  and 
rents  in  that  diocese,  their  ecclesiastical  benefices  excepted,  with  laymen 
and  not  with  the  clergy  as  it  is  said,  to  stay  altogether  the  demand 
made  upon  them  for  payment  of  the  said  subsidy  in  respect  of  the 
lands  for  which  they  are  assessed  among  laymen  ;  as  their  petition 
shews  that  in  all  times  past  they  and  their  predecessors  paid  as  afore- 
said with  laymen  and  not  with  the  clergy,  and  that  they  are  with 
laymen  assessed  for  all  their  lands  towards  the  subsidy  last  granted 
as  used  to  be  done  of  old  time,  but  that  the  archbishop  and  collectors 
not  considering  this  are  endeavouring  by  ecclesiastical  censures  to 
compel  them  with  the  clergy  to  pay  to  the  king's  use  the  subsidy  last 
granted  by  the  clergy  for  their  lands  and  rents  so  taxed  among  laymen, 
as  though  the  same  were  annexed  to  their  spiritualities  which  they  are 
not,  praying  for  remedy.  Proviso  that  they  pay  as  well  with  the 
laity  the  subsidy  granted  by  the  laity  for  all  their  lands  and  rents  as 
with  the  clergy  the  subsidy  granted  by  the  clergy  for  their 
ecclesiastical  benefices. 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

W.  bishop  of  Winchester  and  the  collectors  in  that  diocese. 

S.  bishop  of  London  and  the  collectors  in  that  diocese. 

H.  bishop  of  Norwich  and  the  collectors  in  that  diocese. 

J.  bishop  of  Lincoln  and  the  collectors  in  that  diocese. 

R.  bishop  of  Coventre  and  Lichefeld  and  the  collectors  in  that 
diocese. 

W.  bishop  of  Hereford  and  the  collectors  in  that  diocese. 

W.  bishop  of  Worcester  and  the  collectors  in  that  diocese. 

Th.  bishop  of  Exeter  and  the  collectors  in  that  diocese. 

R.  bishop  of  SaUsbury  and  the  collectors  in  that  diocese. 

J.  bishop  of  Ely  and  the  collectors  in  that  diocese. 


252  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  15 — cont. 

J.  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells  and  the  collectors  in  that  diocese. 
\N .  bishop  of  Cicestre  and  the  collectors  in  that  diocese. 
Th.  bishop  of  Rochester  and  the  collectors  in  that  diocese. 

To  J.  archbishop  of  York,  and  to  the  collectors  in  the  diocese  of 
York  of  the  subsidy  granted  by  the  clergy  of  that  province.  Lik5 
order. 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

Th.  bishop  of  Durham  and  the  collectors  in  that  diocese. 
Th.  bishop  of  Karliol  and  the  collectors  in  that  diocese. 

Sept.  26.  To  Robert  de  Twyford  escheator  in  Notinghamshire  and  Derbyshire. 
Wostmiuster.  Order  to  deliver  to  William  brother  of  Nicholas  de  Caatilupo  the 
manor  of  Ilkeston  and  castle  of  Greseleye,  together  with  the  issues 
thereof  taken  since  the  death  of  Nicholas  son  of  William  de  Cantilupo  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
Nicholas  de  Cantilupo  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  {sic) 
in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  that  Thomas  de  Newemarche 
knight,  John  Buscy  and  Hugh  de  Cressy  gave  to  Joan  (now  deceased) 
who  was  wife  of  Nicholas  de  Cantilupo  knight  the  manor  and  castle 
aforesaid  for  her  life  with  remainder  to  the  said  Nicholas  son  of 
William  and  to  the  heirs  of  his  body,  remainder  if  he  should  die  without 
issue  to  William  his  brother,  that  by  virtue  thereof  the  same  ought 
to  remain  to  the  said  William  brother  of  Nicholas  for  that 
the  said  Nicholas  is  dead  without  issue,  and  that  the  said  manor  is 
held  of  the  heir  of  H«nry  de  Bello  Monte  tenant  in  chief,  a  minor  in 
the  king's  wardship,  and  the  said  castle  in  chief  by  knight  service  as 
of  the  honour  of  Peverell  ;  and  the  king  has  respited  the  homage  and 
fealty  of  William  brother  of  Nicholas  until  Christmas  next,  for  that 
he  is  abiding  on  the  king's  service  in  Aquitaine. 

Sept.  26.  To  Jolin  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.  Order  to  deliver 
Westminster,  to  Wilham  brother  of  Nicholas  de  Cantilupo  the  manor  of  Little  Clayton 
together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since  the  death  of  Nicholas  son 
of  William  de  Cantilupo,  but  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of 
Heselbergh,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  Nicholas  de 
Cantilupo  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief,  but 
that  Tlaomas  Newemarche  knight,  John  de  Buscy  and  Hugh  de 
Cressi  were  seised  in  their  demesne  as  of  fee  of  the  said  manors 
of  Clayton  and  Eselbergh,  and  gave  the  same  to  Joan  (now  deceased) 
who  Avas  wife  of  Nicholas  de  Cantilupo  knight  for  her  life  with 
remainder  to  the  said  Nicholas  son  of  Wilham  and  the  heirs  of 
Ms  body,  remainder  if  he  should  die  without  issue  to  William  his 
brother  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  that  after  the  said  Joan's  death 
the  said  Nicholas  son  of  William  entered  and  died  seised  of  the  said 
manors  without  heir  of  his  body,  that  by  virtue  of  the  aforesaid  gift 
the  same  ought  to  remain  to  the  said  William  brother  of  Nicholas, 
and  that  the  said  manor  of  Clayton  is  held  of  the  king  as  of  the  honour 
of  Peverell  by  the  service  of  one  laiight's  fee,  and  the  said  manor  of 
Heselbergh  of  others  than  the  king  ;  and  the  king  has  respited  etc. 
[as  above). 


46  EDWARD  III. 


253 


1371.  Membrane  15 — cont. 

Oct.  8.  To  the  keeper  or  farmers  for  the  time  being  of  tlie  manors  and  lands 

Westminster,  which  were  of  John  de  Moubray  of  Axihohn  tenant  in  chief  decea.scd. 
Order  to  pay  to  John  de  Derby  servant  of  the  deceased  the  arrears  of 
2d.  a  day  from  28  April  in  the  43rd  year  of  the  reign,  and  henceforward 
to  pay  him  that  daily  sum  every  year  at  the  accustomed  terms,  taking 
his  acquittance  for  ever}'  payment ;  as  the  said  John  de  Moubray 
in  his  life  time  by  writing,  which  on  the  aforesaid  date  the  king  by 
letters  patent  confinned,  granted  to  his  said  servant  for  60  years 
the  ward  of  lirembre  castle  and  the  office  of  hayward  (messer)  of  his 
manors  of  Kyngesbcrnes  and  Bedynges  with  all  profits  thereto  pertain- 
ing, taking  during  the  said  term  for  all  manner  of  profits  2d.  a  day  for 
performing  the  said  offices  in  person,  so  that  if  he  shall  die  within  that 
term  or  refuse  so  to  do,  or  shall  make  notorious  default  or  fault  therein, 
the  same  should  revert  to  the  grantor  and  to  his  heirs. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Membrane  14. 

Oct.  15.  To  John  de  Rokwode  escheator  in  Norffolk  and  Suffolk.     Order  to 

Westminster,  cause  William  son  and  heir  of  John  Bardolf  of  Wirmegeye  tenant  in 

chief  to  have  seisin  of  his  said  father's  lands  which  are  in  the  king's 

hand  by  his  death  ;    as  he  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator, 

and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.         By  p.s.  [28837.*] 

To  John  Welde  escheator  in  Essex  and  Hertfordshire.      Like  order, 
as  the  said  William  has  proved  his  age  before  Jolin  de  Rokwode. 

By  p.s.  {the  same  writ). 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

Walter  de  Kelby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire. 

Robert  de  Twyford  escheator  in  Notjiighamshire   and  Derby- 
shire. 
John  Rous  escheator  in  Warwickshire  and  Leycestershire. 
John  de  Olneye  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire. 
John  de  Bisshopeston  escheator  in  Surrey  and  Sussex. 
William  Aunccll  escheator  in  Gloucestershire. 
William  Cheyne  escheator  in  Dorset.  By  p.s.  (the  same  wTit). 

Oct.  16.  To   Thomas   de   Musgrave   escheator   in   Northumberland.     Order 

Westminster,  to  cause  Walter  son  and  heir  of  Henry  Tailboys  tenant  in  cliief  to  have 

seisin  of  his  said  father's  lands  which  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  his 

death  ;    as  the  said  Walter  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator, 

and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [28833.] 


Membrane  13. 
Oct.  20.  To  Thomas  de  Musgrave    escheator  in    Westmorland.     Order  to 

Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage 
and  about  40  acres  of  land  and  waste  called  Likebergh  in  Kendale  in 
the  town  of  Stirklandketle  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  Swan  de  Derlay  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  delivering 
up  any  issues  thereof  taken  since  the  death  of  Thomas  son  of  Swan ;  as 
the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
premises  came  to  his  hands  by  the  death  of  the  said  Swan,  who  held 
them  of  the  knights'  fees  that  were  of  William  de  Cuucy  knight,  late 
in  the  king's  hand,  by  homage  and  suit  of  his  court  of  Kirkeby  in 

*  The  warrant  is  dated  16  October. 


254 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  \2—cont. 

Kendale  every  three  weeks  and  by  the  service  of  rendering  Sd.  a  year 
at  Martinmas  and  Whitsuntide  by  even  portions,  and  by  reason 
of  the  nonage  of  Thomas  his  son  and  heir,  who  died  within  age  in 
the  king's  wardship,  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  and  that  Roger  son  of 
Thomas  de  Derlay  brother  (frater)  of  the  said  Swan  and  uncle 
(avunculus)  of  the  said  Tiiomas  son  of  Swan  is  his  next  heir  and  of 
full  age  ;  and  the  king  lately  gave  to  John  de  Coupland  (deceased) 
and  Joan  his  wife  (yet  living)  for  life  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services, 
fees  and  advowsons  which  were  of  the  said  William  de  Cuucy. 

Nov.  16.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Dublin.  Order  with  what 
Westminster,  speed  it  may  lawfully  be  done  to  proceed  according  to  the  law  and 
custom  of  Ireland  to  take  an  assize  of  fresh  force  against  Richard 
Strokys  concerning  a  messuage  and  appurtenances  in  that  city,  not- 
withstanding that  the  same  is  now  in  the  king's  hand  it  is  said,  but 
so  as  not  to  proceed  to  rendering  of  judgment  without  advising  the 
king  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  that  John  Blakebourne  lately  arraigned 
that  assize  before  the  said  mayor  and  bailiffs  in  the  court  of  the  said 
city  according  to  the  liberties  thereof,  and  that  although  it  so  far 
proceeded  that  judgment  was  given  for  taking  the  same  by  default  of 
the  said  Richard,  they  have  hitherto  deferred  to  proceed  to  take  the 
same  for  that  in  his  pleading  the  said  Richard  alleged  that  the  premises 
with  all  other  his  lands  in  the  said  city  were  seized  into  the  king's 
hand  and  are  yet  in  his  hand  by  virtue  of  a  writ  of  the  exchequer  of 
Ireland  addressed  to  the  said  mayor  and  to  the  escheator  in  Ireland, 
containing  that  the  said  Richard  is  bound  to  the  king  and  to  William 
de  Wyndesore  his  lieutenant  in  Ireland  in  divers  debts  and  accounts, 
wherefore  the  said  John  has  prayed  the  king  that  the  assize  be  taken. 

Oct.  26.  To  W^illiam  Cheyne  escheator  in  Somerset.     Order  to  remove  the 

Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage,  a  toft  and 
one  carucate  of  land  of  Robert  Lambroke  in  Kyngesbury  Episcopi  and 
Southpederton,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  the 
king  ordered  the  escheator  to  certify  under  seal  in  chancery  the  cause 
wherefore  the  premises  were  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and 
he  returned  that  he  so  took  the  same  for  that  he  found  by  inquisition, 
before  him  taken  of  his  office,  that  John  atte  Yerd  of  Estlambroke, 
tenant  thereof  for  life  with  reversion  to  the  said  Robert,  was  indicted 
for  divers  felonies,  and  after  the  said  felonies  demised  the  premises 
to  the  said  Robert,  and  that  the  said  John  was  after  outlawed  at 
the  suit  of  Ralph  Daubeney  knight  upon  a  plea  of  account,  and  for 
no  other  cause  ;   and  the  king  reckons  that  cause  insufficient.      By  C. 

Nov.  28.         To  John  Knyvet  and  Thomas  de  Ingelby  justices  appointed  to  hold 

Westminster,  pleas  before  the  king.     Order  to  admit  Edmund  de  Chelreye  to  be  their 

fellow  ;   as  it  is  the  king's  will  that  he  shall  be  one  of  the  said  justices 

during  pleasure.  By  K. 

Dec.  2.  To  Alan  de  BuxhuU  keeper  of  the  Tower  of  London,  or  to  his  lieu- 

Westminster,  tenant  there.  Order  of  the  king's  favour  to  set  free  Hugh  de  Redhoo, 
who  is  there  imprisoned  for  particular  causes.  By  K. 

Nov.  16.         To  John  Knyvet  and  Thomas  de  Ingelby  justices  appointed  to 
Westminster,  hold  pleas  before  the  king.     Order  by  writ  of  nisi  prius  to  cause  the 


45  EDWARD  IH. 


255 


jgYJ^  Membrane  13 — cont. 

inquisition  whcrcnpon  Nicholas  Lawe  bailiff  of  Foxton  market  has 
put  himself,  being  indicted  for  taking  Henry  Oarlek  of  Berton 
indicted  for  the  theft  of  divers  chattels,  and  for  that  the  said  Henry 
escaped  him  and  the  said  chattels  remained  with  him,  to  be  taken  before 
them  or  one  of  them. 

Nov.  30.  To  Edmund  Cheyne  escheator  in  Dorset.  Order  to.  take  the  fealty 
VVestminater.  of  Cicely  daughter  and  heir  of  Simon  de  Whitewelle  according  to  the 
form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  deliver  to  her  two  thirds  of  the 
manor  of  Wynterboume  Kyngeston  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
the  said  Simon's  death,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  :  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  William 
ChejTie  late  escheator,  that  the  said  Simon  at  his  death  held  no  lands 
in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  by  reason  whereof  the 
wardship  of  his  lands  ought  at  present  to  pertain  to  the  king,  but  held  in 
fee  tail  the  said  two  thirds  in  chief  in  socage,  by  the  service  of  rendering 
to  the  king  40s.  a  year  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  for  all  services,  of  a 
gift  made  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his  licence  to  William 
de  Witewell  his  father  and  Katherine  his  mother  and  to  the  heirs  of 
their  bodies,  that  by  the  form  of  the  gift  the  same  ought  to  descend 
to  the  said  Cicely  after  the  death  of  the  said  William,  Katherine  and 
Simon,  and  that  she  is  of  the  age  of  twelve  years. 

Oct.  16.  To  William  de  Latimer  keeper  of  the  king's  forest  beyond  Trent, 

Westminster,  or  to  his  representative  in  the  forest  of  Galtris.  Order  to  deliver  to 
bail,  if  replevisable  according  to  the  assize  of  the  forest,  John  Gregory 
of  Crayke,  William  Fleccher  of  Crayke,  William  Day  of  Brandesby, 
William  del  Bank  of  Crayke  and  Thomas  Scotte  of  Crayke,  taken  and 
imprisoned  in  Davy  prison  for  an  alleged  trespass  of  venison  in  the 
said  forest  for  which  they  are  indicted,  if  they  shall  find  every  one  of 
them  twelve  free  men  of  that  bailiwick  who  shall  mainpern  to  have 
them  before  the  justices  next  in  eyre  for  pleas  of  the  forest  in 
Yorkshire  at  their  coming  to  those  parts-,  in  order  to  stand  to  right 
concerning  that  trespass,  bringing  before  the  said  justices  the  names 
of  the  twelve  men  and  this  writ. 

Oct.  26.  To  John  de  Foxle  keeper  of  the  king's  forest  this  side  Trent,  or  to 

Westminster,  his  representative  in  the  forest  of  Racchich.  Like  order  to  dehver  to 
bail  Peter  Whyte  parson  of  Bokelond  St.  Mary  and  Adam  Swyft, 
taken  and  imprisoned  in  Neuton  prison  for  an  alleged  trespass  of 
venison  in  the  said  forest  for  which  they  are  indicted,  if  they  shall 
find  either  of  them  twelve  mainpernors  to  have  them  before  the  justices 
in  eyre  in  Somerset. 

Aug.  2.  To  John  duke  of  Lancastre  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  in 

Westminster.  Lancashire  to  hear  and  determine  divers  felonies,  trespasses  and 
evildoings  in  their  commission  contained  as  well  at  the  suit  of  the  king 
£is  of  other  complainants.  Order  to  proceed  to  make  inquisition 
concerning  the  said  felonies,  trespasses  etc.,  doing  justice  to  the  parties 
who  \\iU  complain  before  them,  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  the 
realm  and  their  commission  aforesaid,  the  ordinance  made  in  the  last 
parliament  notwithstanding ;  as  the  king  has  learned  that  although  great 
number  of  felonies  etc.  are  committed  in  that  county  by  great  number 
of  men  of  the  county  and  elsewhere,  the  said  justices  have  hitherto  taken 


256 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371. 


Membrane  13 — cont. 


no  heed  to  make  inquisition  concoi  iiing  them,  to  punish  the  guilty  or  shew 
justice  to  the  complainants,  whereat  he  marvels  ;  and  it  is  the  king's 
will  that  those  felonies  etc.  shall  not  go  without  punishment.      By  K. 

Membrane  12. 

Oct.  10.  To  Robert  de  Umframville,  Roger  de  Wyderyngton,  Richard  de 

Westminster.  Horsleye,  Robert  de  Haggarston,  William  de  Heppescotes,  Hugh 
Galoun,  Thomas  Galoun  and  John  Mitford.  Order  on  sight  of  these 
presents  forthwith  fairly  to  apportion,  assess  and  tax  all  the  men  of 
the  liberty  of  Hextildesham,  as  well  lords  of  towns  as  labourers,  crafts- 
men, workmen  and  others  of  whatever  estate  or  condition,  not  shewing 
favour  to  any,  for  their  lands,  goods  and  chattels  within  the  said 
liberty,  except  the  lands  of  ecclesiastical  persons  by  them  acquired 
before  20  Edward  I  and  taxed  with  the  clergy  towards  the  tenth  and 
other  quotas,  certifying  as  well  the  king  at  the  exchequer  as  John 
archbishop  of  York  before  St.  Andrew's  day  of  the  sum  at  which  they 
shall  be  so  assessed  and  taxed,  and  staying  altogether  the  levy  of  the 
whole  sum  at  which  the  men  of  the  said  liberty  shall  be  assessed  ; 
as  lately  in  aid  of  the  costs  which  the  king  must  needs  incur  as  well 
for  defence  of  the  kingdom  and  the  shipping  thereof  as  for  furtherance 
of  the  war  \\ith  France,  the  earls,  barons,  lords  and  commons  of 
England  granted  the  king  a  subsidy  of  11 65.  to  be  levied  and  collected 
of  every  parish  of  the  realm,  so  that  a  parish  of  greater  value  should 
aid  and  contribute  rateably  to  a  parish  of  less  value ;  and  now 
petition  is  made  to  the  king  on  behalf  of  the  said  archbishop,  being 
lord  of  the  said  liberty,  shewing  that  he  is  ready  to  pay  the  king  the 
whole  sum  at  which  the  men  thereof  shall  by  reason  of  their  lands, 
goods  and  chattels  within  the  hberty  be  assessed  and  taxed  according 
to  the  said  grant,  and  praying  that  the  levy  thereof  from  the  said  men 
be  stayed  ;  and  Richard  de  Ravensere  the  king's  clerk  archdeacon 
of  Lincoln  and  Henry  de  Barton  the  said  archbishop's  steward  have 
mainperned  for  him  before  the  king  for  payment  of  the  said  sum 
before  the  octaves  of  St.  Andrew  next. 

Oct.  16.  To  Alan  del  Strother  bailiff  of  the  liberty  of  Tyndale.     Order  to 

Westminster,  deliver  to  John  Vespount  the  manors  of  Aldeston  and  Elleryngton  and 
the  advowson  of  Kirkehalgh,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  said  bailiff,  that 
Robert  Vespount  at  his  death  held  the  premises  for  life  of  the  gift  of 
William  de  Salkeld  parson  of  a  mediety  of  Ayketon  and  Ralph  de 
Cryngyldyk  chaplain,  with  remainder  to  Nicholas  his  son  and  to  the 
heirs  male  of  his  body,  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  William 
brother  of  Nicholas  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  remainder  for 
lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  said  John  Vespount  brother  of  William  and 
to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  that  the  premises  are  held  of  the  king 
as  of  his  manor  of  Werk  in  Tyndale  by  the  service  of  one  knight's 
fee,  and  that  by  virtue  of  the  said  gift  they  ought  to  remain  to  the 
said  John  as  aforesaid,  being  of  full  age,  for  that  both  Nicholas  and 
W^illiam  died  without  issue  male  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  the  said 
John's  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [28838.] 

Oct.  20.  To  William  de  Wyndesore  the  king's  lieutenant  in  Ireland.     Order, 

Westminster,  at  his  peril,  to  stay  altogether  the  levy  of  all  manner  of  tallages,  fines, 

ransoms  and  imposts  by  him  laid  upon  the  people  in  Ireland,  and 


45  EDWARD  III.  257 


1371.  Membrane  12 — cont. 

henceforth  utterly  to  cease  from  lajang  upon  them  such  undue  tallages 
and  exactions  until  other  order  be  taken  by  the  king  and  council, 
suffering  the  prelates  and  other  ecclesiastical  persons  in  Ireland 
without  let  to  use  and  enjoy  their  privileges  and  liberties  whatsoever 
as  heretofore,  and  freely  to  dispose  of  the  fruits  of  their  benefices, 
and  allowing  free  passage  to  the  king's  lieges  who  for  lawful  causes 
will  come  to  him  in  England  ;  as  the  said  William. well  knows  how 
the  king  trusting  in  his  circumspection  and  faithfulness  appointed  him 
lieutenant  in  Ireland  under  a  particular  form  and  condition  specified 
in  a  certain  indenture  between  them  made,  in  the  hope  to  give  peace 
and  rest  to  his  said  people  ;  and  now  to  his  sorrow  the  king  has  heard 
by  complaint  of  great  number  of  his  lieges  of  Ireland  that  the 
lieutenant  has  gone  beyond  those  conditions,  laying  upon  the  people 
new  and  unheard  of  imposts  not  to  be  endured,  namely  on  every 
last  of  herring  3s.,  on  every  hundred  of  great  fish  I2d.,  on  every  hundred 
of  small  fish  6d.,  on  every  tun  of  salmon  45.,  on  every  pipe  of  salmon  25., 
on  every  tun  of  wine  65.  8d.,  on  every  pipe  of  uane  35.  4d.,  on  every 
pound  of  flesh  of  oxen,  swine  and  sheep  Qd.,  on  every  wey  of  wheat 
65.  Sd.,  on  every  wey  of  malt,  beans,  peas,  barley,  rye  and  'hastinel  '* 
55.,  on  every  wey  of  salt  O5.  Sd.,  on  every  pound  of  fells  of  horses, 
harts  and  plough  horses  and  of  'pilfel,'  of  linen  and  woollen  cloths, 
faldings  and  all  manner  of  other  merchandise  Qd.,  likewise  on  every 
carucate  of  land  tilled  throughout  all  Ireland  135.  4c?.,  and  upon  the 
clergy  there  a  two  years'  tenth,  moreover  demanding  and  levying 
3,000/.  at  a  parliament  holden  at  Kilkenny,  and  2,000/.  at  a  parliament 
holden  at  Balydoille,  in  particular  counties  by  themselves  half  a  mark 
of  every  carucate  of  land,  in  others  a  set  number  of  kine  and  of  quarters 
of  wheat  and  oats,  of  divers  cities  and  towns  particular  sums  of  money, 
and  of  the  citizens  of  divers  cities  at  his  will  particular  fines  and 
ransoms  to  discharge  them  of  abiding  at  Lymeryk,  and  hindering 
divers  the  king's  lieges  of  Ireland  who  felt  themselves  aggrieved  by 
the  lieutenant  and  other  the  king's  ministers  of  Ireland  contrary  to 
the  law  and  custom  of  Ireland  from  repairing  to  the  king  for  redress  ; 
wherefore  after  deliberation  had  with  the  council  touching  the 
premises,  it  seems  to  the  council  that  by  such  imposts  and  exactions 
peril  of  the  loss  of  Ireland  is  like  to  arise. 
[Foedera.] 

Oct.  15.  To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.     Order  lawfully  to  proceed  in  certain 

Westminster,  processes  before  them  pending  against  great  number  of  the  king's 
lieges  to  whom  he  lately  granted  letters  patent  of  protection  wdth 
the  clause  volumus  for  a  set  time  when  about  to  sail  upon  his  service, 
doing  full  and  speedy  justice  to  the  parties  notwithstanding  the 
said  letters  of  protection,  and  notwithstanding  that  the  terms  therein 
contained  are  not  yet  expired  ;  as  lately  for  defence  of  the  realm  the 
king  assembled  a  fleet  of  ships  to  sail  against  his  enemies  if  any  should 
invade  the  realm,  and  granted  great  number  of  such  letters,  which 
were  to  be  of  none  effect  if  the  said  lieges  took  not  their  voyage  or 
left  the  king's  service  before  the  term  ;  but  the  voyage  is  now  at  an 
end,  and  they  have  left  his  service. 

The  like  to  John  Knyvet  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to 
hold  pleas  before  the  king. 

Another  writ  to  the  sheriffs  of  London. 

*  So  printed  in  Fcedera  ;  hastiuelli  in  Early  Statutes  of  Ireland,  p.  478.     Hafti- 
nel  or  haftiuel  might  also  be  read. 

CB  17 


268 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371-  Membrane  12 — cont. 

Oct.  8.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order,  if  assured 

Westminster,  that  the  king's  toll  of  the  mines  in  the  forest  of  Dene  is  parcel  of  the 
issues  and  profits  of  the  forest  and  ought  to  pertain  to  Guy  de  Briene 
by  reason  of  his  keeping  the  same,  that  he  received  of  Peter  de  la  Mare 
a  sum  of  211.  I2s.  as  })arcel  of  the  said  issues  and  profits,  and  that  the 
said  toll  used  heretofore  to  be  allowed  to  the  said  Guy  and  other  the 
keepers  of  the  said  forest  in  their  farm  thereof  as  parcel  of  the  same,  to 
stay  their  demand  made  by  exchequer  summons  upon  the  said  Guy  and 
Peter  to  account  for  that  sum,  thereof  discharging  them  at  the  exchequer ; 
as  lately  by  letters  patent  the  king  granted  to  the  said  Guy  for  life  the 
keeping  of  the  castle  of  St.  Briavel  and  of  the  said  forest  with  all  issues 
and  profits  thereof  arising  for  a  set  yearly  farm  ;  and  now  on  behalf  of  the 
said  Guy  and  Peter  the  king  has  learned  that,  although  from  the  date  of 
that  grant  the  said  Guy  has  taken  tlie  said  toll  as  parcel  of  his  farm, 
and  the  said  Peter  has  paid  him  211.  I2s.  of  that  toll  as  parcel  of  the 
said  issues  and  profits,  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  are  unlawfully 
distraining  them  to  account  for  that  sum  by  colour  of  an  inquisition 
lately  taken  before  William  de  Wykeham  late  keeper  of  the  king's 
forest  this  side  Trent,  whereupon  the  said  Peter  was  indicted  for  six 
years'  detenue  of  the  said  toll  amounting  to  the  said  sum,  wherefore 
the  said  Guy  and  Peter  have  prayed  for  remedy. 

Oct.  20.  To   Reynold   de   Sholdam   searcher  of   forfeitures  in  the   water  of 

Westminster.  Kirkelerode.  Order  to  dearrest  and  deliver  to  John  Bollard  of  Causer  in 
Seland  the  master  a  ship  of  Causer  aforesaid  Avith  all  the  rigging  and 
gear  thereof  and  with  his  own  merchandise  truly  customed  and  cocketed 
therein,  to  take  whither  he  will,  if  arrested  for  the  cause  hereinafter 
mentioned  and  for  none  other,  causing  the  wool  therein  forfeited  to 
be  sold  at  the  best  price  he  may  to  the  king's  use,  and  answer  to  be 
made  to  the  king  for  the  money  thereof  arising  ;  as  the  said  John 
has  shewn  the  king  that  a  certain  merchant  of  Lenne  without  paying 
custom  or  subsidy  thereupon  freighted  with  him  in  the  said  ship  as 
merchandise  customed  and  cocketed  a  pipe  Rhenish  and  one  bed  to 
the  measure  of  one  '  baiard '  filled  with  wool  {quandam  pijxim 
Beyneuz  el  unum  lectum  ad  modum  unius  baiard  lanis  plenos),  and  put 
them  therein  to  be  taken  over  sea  with  other  merchandise  duly 
customed,  the  said  John  knowing  nought  of  the  forgery,  and  that 
the  said  searcher  for  that  cause  arrested  and  is  detaining  the  ship 
and  the  merchandise  therein  found,  as  he  has  certified  to  the  king, 
wherefore  the  said  John  has  prayed  the  king  for  dearrest  and  delivery 
of  ship  and  gear  and  of  his  own  merchandise  truly  cocketed  and 
customed,  as  he  is  vritbout  fault  in  that  behalf  :  and  the  king  with 
assent  of  the  council  would  deal  favourably  with  him. 

Nov.  12.         To  John  Knyvet  and  Thomas  de  Ingelby  justices  appointed  to 

Westminster,  hold  pleas  before  the  king.     Order  by  writ  of  nisi  prius  to  cause  the 

inquisition    whereupon    Maud    Gilledoghter   has   put    herself    before 

the    king,   being  indicted    for  harbouring  Geoffrey  Milner  chaplain 

outlawed  for  felony,  to  be  taken  before  them  or  one  of  them. 

Oct.  25.  To  the  same.     Order  by  writ  of  nisi  prius  to  cause  the  inquisition 

Westminster,  whereupon  William  son  of  Marmaduke  de  Grendale  knight  (militis) 

has  put  himself  before  the  king,  being  indicted  for  the  theft  of  a  horse 

of  W^illiam  Roberd  price  one  mark,  to  be  taken  before  them  or  one 

of  them.  By  C. 


45  EDWARD  III. 


259 


1;^71.  Membrane  11. 

Oct.  26.  To  William  bishop  of  Worcestor.     Order  to  repair  in  person  to  the 

Westminster,  abbey  of  St.  Augustine  Bristol  and  to  visit  the  same  in  the  head  and 
in  the  members,  the  abbot,  canons  and  officers  thereof,  at  his  discretion 
reforming  and  bringino;  again  to  a  due  estate  such  undue  acts  or 
behaviour  as  he  shall  find  in  that  behalf,  and  executing  all  things 
which  concern  or  may  concern  the  visitation  of  the  said  abbey  and  the 
correction  and  reformation  of  the  premises  ;  as  by  divers  in<{uisition3 
taken  at  the  king's  command  by  John  Tracy,  William  Wynterburn, 
Thomas  Styward,  John  Sergeant,  William  Erlyngham,  Ellis  Spelly 
and  Walter  Derby,  it  is  found  that  the  said  abbey,  acknowledged  to 
be  of  the  foundation  of  the  king's  forefathers  and  of  his  patronage,  for 
lack  of  good  governance  and  by  neglect  of  Henry  now  abbot,  who  has 
brought  it  low  as  well  by  sale  and  conferment  of  corrodies,  by  hurtful 
demises  to  farm  of  the  possessions  thereof  bringing  little  or  no  profit, 
by  waste,  sale  and  destruction  of  the  said  possessions,  as  by  his 
excessive  and  fruitless  expenses  upon  the  manors,  lands,  rents,  property 
and  means  thereof,  is  so  burdened  with  debt  that  the  worship  of  God 
is  ceasing  therein,  alms  and  works  of  piety  of  old  time  appointed  for 
the  souls  of  the  king's  forefathers  are  withdrawn,  and  it  is  to  be  feared 
that  the  canons  there  dwelling  are  like  to  be  dispersed  for  lack  of 
sustenance  if  a  speedy  remedy  be  not  applied  ;  and  of  his  compassion 
for  the  estate  thereof  the  king  would  make  provision  for  taking  away 
the  corrodies  and  charges  aforesaid,  for  relief  and  succour  of  the  house 
and  increase  of  the  manors,  lands  etc.  thereto  belonging,  in  order 
that  the  works  of  piety  now  withdrawn,  the  worship  of  God  now  ceased, 
and  the  matter  of  the  gift  now  diminished  may  be  restored,  and  may 
increase  and  flourish.  The  king  has  commanded  the  said  abbot, 
canons  and  ministers  and  every  of  them  to  be  obedient  and 
intendant  to  the  said  bishop  in  the  execution  of  the  premises  whenso- 
ever he  shall  give  them  notice  on  the  king's  behalf. 


Nov.  12.  To  William  de  Wyndesore  the  king's  lieutenant  in  Ireland.  Order, 
Westminster,  under  pain  of  forfeiture,  forbidding  him  until  other  order  be  taken 
by  the  king  and  council  thereupon  to  make  any  processes  in  any  the 
king's  courts  in  Ireland  against  the  mayor  and  commonalty  of  the 
city  of  Dublin,  the  mayor,  steward  and  commonalty  of  the  town  of 
Droghda,  the  commons  of  the  counties  of  Dyvelyn,  Meath,  Uriel  and 
Kildare  in  Ireland,  or  against  any  person  of  the  same  by  reason  of 
their  resisting  or  obstructing  the  payment  of  the  fines,  ransoms  and 
imposts  hereinafter  mentioned  ;  as  lately  the  king  commanded  his 
said  lieutenant  altogether  to  stay  the  levy  of  all  manner  of  tallages, 
fines,  ransoms  and  imposts  by  him  laid  upon  the  people  in  Ireland, 
and  utterly  to  cease  from  laying  upon  them  undue  tallages  and 
exactions  until  other  order  should  be  taken  by  the  king  and  council 
thereupon,  having  learned  by  complaint  of  great  number  of  his  lieges 
in  Ireland  that  the  lieutenant  has  gone  beyond  the  conditions  contained 
in  particular  indentures  between  the  king  and  himself,  and  has  laid 
upon  the  said  people  new  and  unheard  of  imposts  etc.  {as  above,  p.  257)  ; 
and  now  on  behalf  of  the  said  mayors,  steward  and  commons  the  king 
is  informed  that  the  lieutenant  is  purposing  to  make  divers  processes 
against  them  in  the  king's  court  for  resisting  and  obstructing  the 
payment  of  the  fines  ransoms  and  imposts  aforesaid,  striving  to  distrain 
them  for  that  cause. 
[Fcedera.] 


260  CALENDAR   OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  11 — cont. 

Nov^  12.  To  the  sherifTs  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  James 
Wostiuinster.  Sehind  citizen  and  hostler  of  London,  to  cause  payment  and  allowance 
to  be  made  him  of  the  goods  in  their  keeping  (if  so  they  be)  which 
belong  to  certain  men  of  Flanders,  who  were  his  guests  before  their 
arrest,  for  the  reasonable  expenses  which  by  his  oath  and  by  examina- 
tion of  the  said  Flemings  the  sheriffs  shall  be  assured  that  he  incurred 
upon  their  maintenance  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  divers  men  of 
Flanders  of  the  city  of  London  to  the  number  of  thirty,  whom  ^vith 
their  goods  and  chattels  there  the  king  lately  commanded  the  sheriffs 
to  arrest  and  detain  until  further  order,  before  their  arrest  abode  one 
quinzaine  in  the  inn  of  the  said  James  as  his  guests,  and  that  after 
their  arrest  they  abode  seven  weeks  at  his  cost  in  the  king's  prison  of 
Algate  under  the  sheriffs'  custody,  praying  that  he  may  be  contented 
for  the  expenses  of  their  maintenance. 

Nov.  6.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  stay 

Westminster,  their  demand  made  by  excliequer  summons  upon  John  Burgherssh 
deceased  for  20  marks  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Berkshire  for  the 
expenses  of  finding  two  men  at  arms  for  the  king's  passage  to 
Normandy,  thereof  discharging  as  well  the  said  deceased  as  John 
de  Burgherssh  his  son  and  heir  ;  as  the  said  deceased  was  in  the  king's 
company  by  his  command  on  his  service  at  the  time  when  he  landed 
at  Hogges  in  Normandy  and  until  his  return  to  England,  as  Edward 
prince  of  Aquitaine  and  Wales  has  testified  by  his  bill. 

Nov.  26.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  stay 
Westminster,  their  demand  made  by  exchequer  summons  upon  Alice  prioress  of 
Bromhale  for  the  portion  of  a  sum  of  36/.  5s.  O^d.  falling  upon  her  as 
tenant  of  certain  lands  which  were  of  William  de  la  Rokele  late  Queen 
Philippa's  bailiff  of  the  manors  of  Cokham,  Braye,  Benetfeld  and 
Sonynghull,  thereof  acquitting  her,  so  that  answer  be  made  at  the 
exchequer  for  the  portions  thereof  falling  upon  other  the  tenants  of 
lands  which  were  the  said  William's  ;  as  the  king  of  liis  favour  has 
pardoned  her  the  portion  falling  upon  her  for  the  said  lands  of  the 
said  sum  wherein  the  said  bailiff  was  bound  to  Queen  Philippa.      By  K. 

Nov.  24.  To  the  abbot  of  Pippewell  and  his  fellows,  collectors  in  Norhampton- 
Westminster.  shire  of  the  subsidy  last  granted  to  the  king  by  the  clergy  of  the 
realm.  Order  to  stay  their  demand  made  upon  the  two  chaplains 
of  the  chantry  of  St.  Mary  of  Makeseye  to  pay  the  said  subsidy  with 
the  clergy  for  their  possessions,  suffering  them  to  be  thereof  quit 
according  to  the  form  of  the  grant  thereof,  releasing  any  sequestration 
laid  for  that  cause  upon  their  goods  or  fruits,  and  revoking  any 
sentences  fulminated  against  them  ;  as  on  behalf  of  the  said  chaplains 
the  king  has  learned  that  the  said  chantry  was  founded  for  one 
chaplain  only,  and  that  chaplain  of  old  time  used  not  to  contribute 
with  the  clergy  or  with  laymen  to  any  subsidy  for  that  the  possessions 
[assigned  to]  him  by  the  founder  thereof  were  insufficient  for  his 
maintenance,  that  the  second  chaplain  has  been  appointed  by  Robert 
de  Thorp  the  chancellor,  who  has  newly  conferred  upon  the  said 
chantry  certain  possessions  as  well  for  his  maintenance  as  to  sustain 
the  chaplain  who  was  there  of  old  time,  as  the  king  has  sure  information, 
that  so  the  said  chaplains  are  concerned  to  contribute  to  the  subsidy 
for  their  said  possessions  with  laymen  and  not  \\ith  the  clergy  for  that 


45   EDWARD    III. 


261 


1371. 


Membrane  11 — cont 


the  greatest  part  tliereof  is  newly  assigned  to  the  said  chantry  and 
not  of  old  time,  but  that  the  collectors  considering  not  this  are  striving 
by  ecclesiastical  censures  to  compel  the  said  chaplains  to  contribute 
with  the  clergy,  although  the  possessions  of  old  assigned  to  the  said 
chantry  used  not  heretofore  to  be  taxed  towards  any  subsidy  or  other 
charge,  and  although  tiie  other  possessions  newly  conferred  upon  the 
same  ought  to  be  taxed  witli  laymen  and  not  with  the  clergy,  wherefore 
the  said  chaplains  have  prayed  the  king  for  remedy. 

Nov.  4.  To  the  guardian  of  the  spirituality  of  the  bishopric  of  Bangor,  now 

Westminster,  void  and  in  the  king's  hand.  Order,  if  the  facts  are  as  hereinafter 
rehearsed,  to  discharge  the  abbot  of  Conweye  in  North  Wales  of 
further  levying  or  collecting  in  the  diocese  of  Bangor  the  subsidy 
last  granted  to  the  king  by  the  clergy  of  the  province  of  Canterbury, 
assigning  and  deputing  in  his  room  another  collector  for  whom  the 
said  guardian  will  answer,  and  informing  the  king  under  seal  of  the 
name  of  the  collector  so  deputed  ;  as  the  said  abbot  has  shewn  the  king 
that,  though  his  abbey  is  situate  in  the  diocese  of  St.  Asaph,  and  he 
is  by  the  bishop  thereof  deputed  to  collect  the  said  subsidy  in  that 
diocese,  for  certain  possessions  which  he  holds  in  the  diocese  of  Bangor 
the  said  guardian  has  charged  him  to  levy  and  collect  the  said  subsidy 
in  that  diocese,  wherefore  he  has  prayed  to  be  discharged  ;  and  the 
king  considers  that  he  is  not  sufficiently  qualified  for  levying  the  said 
subsidy  to  the  king's  advantage  in  both  dioceses. 

Nov.  10.         To  the  bailiflfs  of  Portesmuth.     Order,  at  their  peril,  to  keep  safe 

Westminster,  and  sure  under  arrest  a  ship  from  over  sea  called  la  Seinle  Croyce  of 

Gaterville,  driven  by  a  tempest  to  that  port  and  by  them  arrested  it 

is  said,  and  the  men,  goods  and  property  therein  whatsoever.      By  C. 


Membrane  10. 

Oct.  24.  To  the  keeper  or  farmer  for  the  time  being  of  the  manor  of  Knapp 

Westminster.  CO.  Sussex  and  of  other  the  lands  which  were  of  John  de  Moubray  of 
Axiholm  tenant  in  cliief  deceased.  Order  to  pay  to  William  de  Grene 
servant  of  the  said  deceased  the  arrears  of  2d.  a  day  from  1  February 
in  the  43rd  year  of  the  reign,  and  henceforward  to  pay  liim  that  daily 
sum  every  year  at  the  accustomed  terms,  taking  liis  acquittance  for 
every  payment  ;  as  in  consideration  that  the  said  John  in  his  life 
time  gave  the  said  WilUam  the  keeping  of  I^app  park  to  hold  of 
the  said  John  and  his  heirs  for  60  years  with  the  houses  appointed  for 
the  keeping  thereof,  the  fees  and  other  profits  and  commodities 
thereto  pertaining,  taldng  of  the  said  John  and  his  heirs  '2d.  a  day  of 
the  said  manor  during  tliat  term,  and  that  the  said  William  after  he 
was  keeper  by  virtue  of  the  said  John's  letters  patent  lost  the  said 
letters  as  the  king  is  informed  of  a  surety  by  credible  persons,  on  the 
aforesaid  date  the  king  of  his  favour  by  letter's  patent  granted  the 
said  William  the  keeping  of  the  said  park,  the  park  and  manor  being 
now  in  his  hand  by  the  said  John's  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage 
of  his  heir,  to  hold  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  heir  during  the  said 
term  with  the  houses  etc.  as  aforesaid,  taking  the  said  fee  of  the  issues 
of  the  manor  by  the  hands  of  the  keepers,  baihtfs  or  farmers  thereof. 
Et  erat  paleiis. 


262 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371. 


Membrane  10 — cont. 


Oct.  25.  To  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland.     Order  to  compel  the  abbot  of  Foumea 

Westminster,  and  the  abbot  of  Caldra  to  contribute  with  others  of  the  clergy  there 
to  the  subsidy  of  50,000^.  granted  to  the  king  by  the  prelates  and 
clergy  of  the  provinces  of  Canterbury  and  York,  and  to  pay  the 
subsidy  falling  to  them  according  to  the  quantity  of  their  possessions 
in  Cumberland,  so  that  payment  thereof  be  not  delayed  by  their 
default,  and  if  they  shall  refuse  so  to  do,  to  warn  them  to  be  before  the 
king  in  chancery  in  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  next  to  do  and  receive 
what  shall  by  advice  of  the  council  be  appointed  them,  certifying 
in  chancery  what  he  shall  do  therein  and  all  his  dealing  in  the 
matter,  and  bringing  there  the  names  of  those  by  whom  such  warning 
shall  be  given,  and  this  writ  ;  as  for  the  defence  of  the  realm  and 
protection  of  the  church  of  England  the  said  prelates  and  clergy  granted 
the  subsidy  aforesaid  to  be  paid  at  the  exchequer  at  Michaelmas  last 
and  the  Purification  next  by  even  portions,  and  in  order  that  payment 
thereof  might  more  easily  be  borne  to  the  greater  peace  of  the  clergy, 
the  king  willed  that  parsons  and  men  of  the  church  whatsoever,  exempt 
and  not  exempt,  alien  and  native,  should  of  their  benefices  and 
possessions  w'hatsoever  taxed  and  not  taxed  within  the  said  provinces 
contribute  rateably  to  the  said  sum,  and  stipendiary  priests  of  their 
stipends,  any  privileges  heretofore  granted  by  the  king  or  his  fore- 
fathers or  by  others  whatsoever  notwithstanding,  and  notwithstanding 
that  some  of  them  used  not  to  contribute  to  such  charges  ;  and  the 
king  commanded  Th.  bishop  of  Karliol  at  a  set  day  and  place  before 
him  or  his  commissaries  to  convoke  by  the  king's  authority  all  and 
singular  the  parsons  and  men  of  the  church  of  his  diocese,  subject  to 
him  and  exempt,  to  charge  them  rateably  with  payment  of  the  said 
subsidy  according  to  the  ordinance,  and  to  cause  the  same  to  be  levied 
to  the  king's  use  by  trusty  men  of  his  diocese  to  be  deputed  for  the 
purpose,  and  if  any  such  parsons  and  men  being  exempt  will  not 
appear  Ijefore  him  or  contribute  rateably  as  they  are  bound  to  do,  to 
set  them  a  day  by  the  king's  authority  to  be  before  him  in  chancery 
in  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  last  to  do  and  receive  w^hat  should  then 
and  there  be  appointed  by  advice  of  the  council,  certifying  in  chancery 
the  names  of  all  who  refuse  to  pay  the  portion  falling  upon  them  ; 
and  the  said  bishop  signified  accordingly  that  the  said  abbots  holding 
possessions  within  his  diocese  have  taken  no  heed  to  appear  before 
him  or  contribute  as  aforesaid,  wherefore  he  set  them  the  day  above 
mentioned  to  be  in  chancery  before  the  king,  and  they  came  not  at 
that  day  according  to  the  appointment  so  made  on  the  king's  behalf. 
The  like  to  the  sheriff  of  Westmorland  concerning  the  abbot  of  Bella 
Landa,  the  prior  of  Watton  and  the  prior  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in 
England. 

Oct.  20.         To  William  de  Wyndesore  the  king's  lieutenant  in  Ireland.     Order 
Westminster,  to  stay  the  levy  of  all  manner  of  tallages  etc.  upon  the  people  in 
Ireland  {as  above,  p.  256). 
Vacated,  because  above. 


Nov.  20.         To  the  escheator  in  Norffolk.     Order  to  cause  Robert  de  Cronge- 

Westminster.  thorp  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage  and  appurtenances  in  Brunham 

held  by  John  Palmere  hanged  for  felony  it  is  said  :    as  the  king  has 

learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  premises  have 

been  in  lus  hand  a  year  and  a  day  and  are  yet  in  his  hand^  that  the 


45  EDWARD  III. 


263 


1371.  Membrane  10 — cunt. 

said  John  held  them  of  the  said  Robert,  and  that  John  de  Crcssyngham 
late  escheator  had  tlie  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste  thereof,  and  ought 
to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  same. 

Nov.  16.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln.  Order  to  cause  the  carl  of  Richemund  to 
Westminster,  have  seisin  of  1  acre  3  roods  of  hind  in  (irosberkyrk  held  by  Thomas 
son  of  Robert  de  Gosberkirk  hanged  for  felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  Saier  de  Rocheford  late  sheriff, 
that  tlie  said  hmd  has  been  in  liis  liand  a  year  and  a  day  and  is  yet 
in  his  hand,  that  tlie  said  Thomas  held  it  of  the  said  carl,  and  that 
Ralph  de  Bury  had  the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste  thereof,  and 
ought  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  same. 

July  15.  To    John    Welde    escheator    in    Essex.       Order    to    cause    Robert 

Westminster.  Marny  knight,  William  Andreu,  Thomas  Bret,  John  Cooke  of 
Horndon,  John  Malgraf  and  John  Mokkyng  respectively  to  have  seisin 
of  the  tenements  in  Horndon  held  of  them  by  Peter  son  of  Peter  Burre 
of  Horndon,  who  for  a  felony  by  him  committed,  for  which  he 
was  outlawed,  has  abjured  the  realm  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  sheriff,  that  one  toft  and  10  acres 
3  roods  of  land  of  the  said  Peter  the  son  have  been  in  his  hand  a  year 
and  a  day  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  that  the  said  Peter  the  son  held 
the  toft  of  the  said  Robert,  3  acres  of  land  of  the  said  Wilham,  3  acres 
of  Thomas  Bret,  3  acres  of  the  said  John  Cooke,  one  acre  of  John 
Malgraf,  and  3  roods  of  John  Mokkyng,  and  that  Thomas  de  Chabham 
late  escheator  had  the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste  thereof,  and  ought 
to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  same. 


Membrane  9. 

Oct.  20.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  and  all  the  commonalty  of  the  town  of 

Westminster.  Bristol.  Order  and  request,  in  consideration  of  the  imminent  peril, 
to  give  their  assent  to  the  grant  of  a  subsidy  of  25.  upon  every  tun  of 
wine,  and  Gd.  in  the  pound  upon  certain  other  merchandise  brought 
within  the  realm  and  exported  thence  (wool,  hides  and  woolfells 
excepted)  over  and  above  the  ancient  customs  thereupon  due,  and  to 
depute  certain  {ceteras)  fit  persons  to  levy,  collect  and  receive  the  same 
on  the  king's  behalf  in  that  port,  certifying  with  what  speed  they 
may  under  the  seals  of  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  the  names  of  those 
deputed  and  all  their  action  in  the  matter  ;  as  the  prelates,  nobles 
and  merchants  of  the  realm  in  the  great  council  last  assembled  at 
Westminster,  in  consideration  of  the  peril  to  the  realm  and  the  shipping 
thereof  to  be  feared  by  attacks  of  the  enemy,  for  the  safety  as  well  of 
the  said  realm  and  shi})ping  as  of  the  goods  and  merchandise  of  the 
king's  merchants  and  other  his  subjects  imported  into  the  realm 
or  exported  thence,  have  freely  granted  the  said  subsidy  to  the 
king,  so  far  as  in  them  lies,  to  be  taken  from  All  Saints  next 
until  the  same  feast  next  following  in  aid  of  the  expenses  of 
armed  men  and  archers,  and  of  ships  of  war  to  sail  for  the 
aforesaid  cause  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  desire  that  effect  be  given  to 
the  things  so  appointed.  It  is  not  the  will  nor  intent  of  the  king  or 
council  that  aught  be  taken  of  merchandise  in  sliips  touching  at  the 
said  port  when  driven  thither  by  stress  of  weather  or  otherwise  for 


204  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

their  refreshment,  if  not  there  laded  or  unladed,  or  for  those  on  which 
the  subsidy  has  previously  been  paid  in  other  ports.  By  K.  and  C. 

The  hke  to  the  following  : — 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Barstaplo, 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Excestre. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Lostwythyel. 

The  bailiff's  of  the  town  of  Mosehole. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Polruen.* 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Dertmuth. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Fowy. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Plummuth. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Melcombe. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  towTi  of  Weymuth. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  towTi  of  Suthampton. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Cicestre. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Lenne. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Great  Jernemuth, 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  St.  Botolph. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  io\YTi.  of  Shorham. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  tlie  towTi  of  Hertilpole. 

The  mayor  and  baiUffs  of  the  town  of  Quenesburgh. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Gippewdc. 

Richard  de  Pembrugge  warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports. 
The  like  to  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  and  all  the  commonalty  of  the 
city  of  London,  for  payment  of  the  said  subsidy  from  the  feast  of 
St.  Simon  and  St.  Jude  next  to  the  same  feast  next  following. 

Dec.  6.  To  William  de  Cranewell  steward  in  Cornwall  of  Edward  prince  of 

Westminster.  Aquitaine  and  Wales.  Order,  under  pain  of  forfeiture,  to  dearrest 
without  delay  all  the  merchants  of  Portyngale  by  him  arrested, 
suffering  them  to  go  their  way  and  freely  to  traffic  without  arrest  or 
wrong  done  to  them  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  that  the  said  steward 
has  without  cause  arrested  and  is  keeping  under  arrest  divers  merchants 
of  Portyngale,  who  lately  as  true  merchants  [came]  into  the  realm  at 
Dertmuth  and  Falemuth  ;  and  the  king  reckons  them  his  friends 
and  well  wishers,  and  would  not  that  they  be  molested  within  the 
realm.  By  K. 

[Fcedera.l 

Nov.  2.  To    Edmund   Chejme   escheator   in    Dorset.      Order   to   take   the 

Westminster,  fealty  of  Felicia  late  the  wife  of  Edmund  Everard  knight  according 
to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  to  remove  the  king's  hand 
and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage  and  one  virgate  of 
land  in  Fromebelet  taken  into  his  hand  by  the  said  Edmund's 
death,  delivering  to  the  said  Felicia  any  issues  thereof  taken ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  at  his  command 
by  William  Cheyne  late  escheator,  that  the  said  Edmund  at  his 
death  held  the  premises  jointly  with  the  said  Felicia  by  the  service 
of  the  twentieth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  of  the  gift  of  William 
Frome,  who  formerly  held  the  premises  of  the  said  Edmund  as  mesne 

*  The  next  line  erased. 


45  EDWARD  UI.  2G5 


2371.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

lord,  to  the  said  Edmund  and  Felicia  and  to  the  heirs  of  the  said 
Edmund,  and  that  by  virtue  of  that  acquisition  the  same  are  now 
held  in  cliief. 

Dec.  8.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  of  Ireland.     Order, 

VVeatrainster.  under  pain  of  forfeiture,  if  John  Frombold  now  mayor  of  Droghda  in 
Ireland  is  arrested  for  the  cause  hereinafter  mentioned  and  for  none 
other,  without  delay  to  dearrest  and  set  him  free,  staying  until  other 
order  be  by  the  king  and  council  taken  the  levy  of  100  marks  and 
other  sums  of  money  unlawfully  laid  upon  the  said  mayor  and  the 
commonalty  of  Droghda  by  William  de  Wyndesore  the  king's 
lieutenant  in  Ireland,  any  command  of  the  said  lieutenant  now  or  here- 
after to  tliem  addressed  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding  ;  as  lately 
by  complaint  of  the  mayor,  steward  and  commonalty  of  tTie  said  town 
the  king  learned  that  the  said  lieutenant  lately  ordered  the  mayor 
and  steward  and  twelve  true  men  of  the  town  to  come  before  him 
at  Kilkenny  and  there  abide,  not  suffering  them  to  depart  until  for 
themselves  and  the  commonalty  thereof  by  duress  they  granted  him 
100  marks,  that  by  writ  under  the  seal  used  in  Ireland  he  [ordered] 
Richard  Mole  and  divers  other  burgesses  of  the  said  towTi  to  come  to 
the  city  of  Ljmieryc  and  there  to  abide  and  dwell,  detaining  them  there 
until  by  a  great  sum  they  made  fine  witli  him  for  licence  to  return 
thence  to  their  own  town,  and  that  he  unlawfully  laid  upon  the  said 
mayor,  steward  and  commonalty  divers  other  tallages,  fines, 
extortions  and  imposts  not  to  be  endured,  wherefore  by  advice  of 
the  council  the  king  commanded  his  said  lieutenant  by  writ  to  stay  the 
further  levy  and  collection  of  the  said  sums  and  of  all  manner  other  the 
tallages,  fines  and  imposts  by  liim  unlawfully  laid  upon  them,  causing 
the  same  utterly  to  cease  until  other  order  should  by  the  king  and 
council  be  taken,  and  by  another  writ  coumianded  the  treasurer 
and  the  said  barons  likewise  to  stay  the  further  levy  of  the  same  ;  and' 
now  on  behalf  of  the  said  John  and  of  the  commonalty  of  the  said 
town  the  king  has  learned  that  by  virtue  of  a  command  of  the  said 
lieutenant  the  treasurer  and  barons  have  caused  the  said  John  to 
come  before  them  at  Catherlach,  and  have  there  arrested  and 
imprisoned  him  for  non-payment  of  the  said  100  marks  and  the  other 
sums  unlawfully  laid  upon  him  and  the  commonalty  of  the  town,  in 
contempt  of  the  king  and  liis  commands,  wherefore  the  king  is  moved 
to  anger. 
{FcederaJ] 

Dec.  10.  To  the  same.  Order  to  stay,  until  further  order  be  by  the  king 
Westminster,  and  council  taken,  the  making  of  any  process  whatsoever  before  them 
in  the  exchequer  by  virtue  of  any  commands  of  William  de  Wyndesore 
the  king's  lieutenant  in  Ireland  now  or  hereafter  to  them  addressed 
against  the  mayor  and  commonalty  of  the  city  of  Dublin  in  Ireland 
or  any  person  thereof  for  resisting  or  obstructing  payment  of  fines  and 
imposts  by  the  said  lieutenant  unlawfully  laid  upon  the  said  mayor 
and  commonalty  ;  as  lately  by  their  complaint  the  king  learned  that 
the  said  Ueutenant  ordered  the  mayor  and  twelve  true  men  of  that 
city  to  come  before  him  at  Kilkenny  and  there  abide,  not  suffermg 
them  to  depart  thence  until  for  themselves  and  the  commonalty  of 
the  city  they  granted  him  by  duress  100  marks,  that  by  writ  under  the 
seal  used  in  Ireland  he  [ordered]  Edmund  Berle,  Nicholas  Ser jaunt, 


266  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

Richard  Chaumberleyn,  John  Bukeland,  Geoffrey  Gallan,  John  Foyl 
and  Walter  Passavant  citizens  of  DubUn  to  come  thence  to  the  city  of 
Lymeryc  and  there  abide  and  dwell,  detaining  them  there  until  by  a 
great  sum  they  made  fine  with  him  for  licence  to  return  thence  to 
l)ublin,  and  that  at  the  last  parliament  holden  at  Balidoille  he 
unlawfully  laid  upon  the  said  mayor  and  commonalty  a  tallage  of 
200  marks  and  divers  other  tallages,  fines,  extortions  and  imposts 
not  to  be  borne,  to  their  impoverishment  and  ruin  ;  and  by  advice 
of  the  council  the  king  by  writ  commanded  his  said  lieutenant  to 
stay  the  further  levy  and  collection  of  the  said  sums  and  of  all  other 
■  the  tallages,  fines  and  imposts  by  him  unlawfully  laid  upon  them, 
causing  the  same  utterly  to  cease  until  other  order  should  by  the 
king  and  council  be  taken  ;  and  after  on  behalf  of  the  said  mayor  and 
commonalty  the  king  was  informed  that  the  lieutenant  purposes  to 
make  divers  processes  before  him  in  the  king's  court  because  of  the 
resistance  and  obstruction  aforesaid,  striving  unlawfully  to  distrain 
and  trouble  them  for  that  cause,  wherefore  by  advice  of  the  council 
the  king  has  by  writ  forbidden  the  said  lieutenant  until  other  order 
be  taken  as  aforesaid  to  make  any  processes  in  any  courts  against  the 
said  mayor  and  commonalty  or  any  person  of  the  said  city  for  resisting 
or  obstructing  payment  as  aforesaid. 

[Ibid,  under  the  erroneous  date  October  10.] 

Membrane  8. 

Nov.  8.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  stay 

Westminster,  until  Easter  next  their  demand  made  upon  John  Wroth  and  Robert 
de  Parys  to  account  before  them  concerning  any  issues  arising  of 
four  fifths  of  two  messuages,  46  acres  and  3  roods  of  land  in  Haddenham 
which  were  of  Robert  Busteler  kjiight  from  the  time  the  same  were  by 
John  de  Olneye  late  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire  taken  into  the  king's 
hand,  releasing  any  distress  made  for  that  cause  ;  as  by  a  particular 
mainprise  the  king  committed  to  the  said  John  Wroth  and  Robert 
de  Parys  the  keeping  of  the  said  four  fifths  with  the  issues  thereof 
taken  as  aforesaid  and  all  else  to  the  same  belonging,  until  debate 
should  be  had  in  the  king's  court  whether  those  four  fifths  ought  by 
law  to  pertain  to  the  king  or  to  them,  so  that  answer  should  be  made 
at  the  exchequer  for  those  and  all  other  issues  thereof  arising  in  case 
the  said  four  fifths  or  the  issues  should  be  adjudged  to  the  king  ; 
and  no  debate  is  yet  had  on  the  subject. 

The  like  writ  of  supersedeas  until  the  quinzaine  aforesaid  {sic)  in 
favour  of  the  said  Robert  Parys  concerning  four  fifths  of  the  manor 
of  Dukesworth  which  was  of  the  said  Robert  Busteler,  and  was 
demised  to  liim  in  the  form  above  rehearsed. 

Oct.  10.  To  the  archbishops,   bishops,   abbots,  priors,  deans,   archdeacons, 

Westminster,  officials,  chancellors,  provosts,  sacrists,  prebendaries  in  cathedral  or 
collegiate  churches,  advocates,  proctors  and  other  ecclesiastical  persons 
holding  whatsoever  dignity  or  office,  and  to  notaries  public  and  others 
whatsoever  to  whom  etc.  Writ  of  prohibition,  forbidding  them  and 
every  of  them  to  attempt  or  cause  aught  to  be  attempted  which  may 
tend  to  prejudice  the  king,  to  impair  his  right,  or  to  the  disherison  of 
the  crown,  revoking  without  delay  any  such  attempt  made  by  them 
or  any  one  of  them,  knowing  that  otherwise  the  king  will  be  wroth  with 
them  as  with  men  who  impugn  his  rights  ;    as  the  king  by  letters 


45  EDWARD  IH.  267 


1371.  Membrane  8 — cont. 

patent  granted  to  William  de  Horewyk  clerk  the  prebend  of  Helegh 
in  the  church  of  Cicestre  with  its  rights  etc.  then  void  and  belonging  to 
the  king's  gift  by  reason'  of  the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric  of 
Cicestre  which  were  in  the  king's  hand  ;  and  now  the  king  is  informed 
that  though  the  said  William  by  virtue  of  the  king's  collation  and 
of  the  right  vesting  in  him  canonically  obtained  the  said  prebend, 
certain  men  scheming  to  impugn  that  right  and  collation,  and 
unlawfully  to  trouble  him  touching  the  possession  of  that  prebend, 
have  made  and  without  ceasing  do  daily  make  provocations,  citations, 
appeals,  instruments,  processes,  notifications  thereof  and  many  other 
things  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  and  his  crown,  whereby  they  are 
endeavouring  to  bring  the  king's  right  under  another  jurisdiction  to 
the  subversion  and  annulment  thereof,  in  contempt  of  the  king  and 
to  his  prejudice,  impairing  his  right,  and  to  the  peril  of  the  disherison 
of  the  crown  ;  and  the  king  will  not  endure  these  things,  being  bound 
by  his  oath  to  keep  inviolate  the  rights  of  his  crown. 

Nov.  1.  To  William  de  Wyndesore  the  king's  lieutenant  in  Ireland.     Order, 

Westminster,  if  assured  that  at  the  time  he  made  the  fine  hereinafter  mentioned 
or  afterwards  John  Scrope  deceased  had  no  other  estate  in  two 
messuages  and  the  appurtenances  in  Dublin  but  jointly  with  Joan  his 
wife,  and  that  the  same  ought  not  to  be  charged  for  any  sums  of 
money  due  to  the  king,  or  for  any  other  cause  to  remain  in  the  king's 
hand,  to  command  the  king's  hand  to  be  removed  from  the  same  and 
the  issues  thereof  since  they  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  ;  as  on 
behalf  of  the  said  Joan  it  is  she\\n  the  king  that  the  said  Jolm  was 
bound  to  the  king  in  a  certain  sum  of  money  for  a  fine  which  he  made 
for  his  deliverance  from  Dublin  prison  where  he  was  detained  for 
certain  trespasses  and  contempts  by  liim  committed,  and  that  though 
on  the  day  he  made  the  said  fine  or  after  he  had  but  a  joint  estate  in 
the  said  messuages  with  the  said  Joan,  namely  in  one  messuage  to 
them  and  the  heirs  of  the  said  Jolin  and  in  the  other  for  a  term  of 
60  years,  the  lieutenant  caused  them  to  be  seized  into  the  king's  hand 
for  levying  the  said  sum  thereof,  wherefore  the  said  Joan  has  prayed 
for  remedy.  Proviso  that  the  sum  of  the  said  fine  be  levied  to  the 
king's  use  of  other  lands  which  the  said  Jolm  held  in  fee  simple  at  the 
date  of  the  said  fine  or  after,  and  after  the  said  Joan's  death  of  that 
messuage  wliich  he  held  jointly  with  her  to  them  and  to  his  heirs. 

Nov.  14,  To  the  sheriflf  of  Lincoln.  Order  to  cause  the  abbot  of  Peterborough  to 
Westminster,  have  seisin  of  2  acres  of  land  in  Gosberkirk  held  by  Thomas  son  of 
Robert  de  Gosberkirk  hanged  for  felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  Saier  de  Rocheford  late  sheriff,  that  the  said 
land  has  been  in  the  king's  hand  a  year  and  a  day  and  is  yet  in  his 
hand,  that  the  said  Thomas  held  it  of  the  said  abbot,  and  that  Ralph 
de  Bury  had  the  year  and  a  day  and  the  Avaste  thereof,  and  ought  to 
answer  to  the  king  for  the  same. 

Oct.  16.  To  William  Cheyne  escheator  in  Somerset.     Order  to  cause  James 

Westminster,  de  Audelegh  of  Helegh  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage  and  garden, 
50  acres  of  land  and  4  acres  of  meadow  in  Strengeston  held  by  John 
Nicol  outlawed  for  felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  premises  have  been  in 
his  hand  a  year  and  a  day  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  that  the  said  John 


268  CALENDAR  OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  8 — cont. 

held  tliem  of  the  said  James,  and  that  the  king  has  had  the  year  and 
a  day  and  tiie  waste  thereof,  and  the  esclieator  ought  to  answer  for 
the  same  in  his  account. 

Nov.  27.  To  the  true  men  and  all  the  commonalty  of  the  city  of  Worcester 
Westminster,  and  every  of  them.  Writ  de  inlendendo,  strictly  ordering  them  under 
pain  of  forfeiture,  if  the  custom  hereinafter  mentioned  be  had  in 
that  city,  to  be  answerable  to  Robert  Baret  as  bailiff  thereof, 
and  forbidding  them  and  every  of  them,  under  pain  of  forfeiture, 
in  anywise  to  hinder  his  election  or  attempt  aught  that  may 
tend  to  a  breach  of  the  peace  or  of  that  custom,  or  to  put  the  people 
in  fear ;  as  according  to  the  custom  heretofore  maintained  and  approved 
the  citizens  of  Worcester  have  been  used  time  out  of  mind  to  choose 
24  citizens  thereof,  and  these  24  ought  to  elect  one  baihff  for  the 
keeping  and  good  governance  of  the  city ;  and  tiie  24  citizens 
so  chosen  have  accordingly  elected  the  said  Robert  bailiff  for  the 
present  year  as  the  king  has  learned,  but  he  is  now  informed  that 
certain  of  the  city  opposing  the  election  are  striving  as  rebels  to  cause 
disputes  among  the  men  thereof  and  assemblies  in  contempt  of  the 
king,  in  breach  of  the  peace  and  of  the  said  custom,  and  to  the  terror 
and  diisturbance  of  the  people  ;  and  the  king  would  obviate  the  peril 
threatened  thereby. 

Nov.  20.  To  Richard  de  Tounlay  escheator  in  Lancashire.  Order  of  the 
Westminster,  king's  favour  to  restore  to  Roger  Birewath  of  Preston  clerk,  unless  he 
was  a  fugitive,  his  lands,  goods  and  chattels  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  William  de  Chorle  late  escheator  by  reason  of  the  felonies  for  which 
he  was  indicted  ;  as  he  was  lately  indicted  before  Godfrey  Foljambe 
and  his  fellows,  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  Lancashire,  upon 
charges  of  the  manslaughter  of  William  Clerc  of  Preston,  the  robbery 
of  335,  4(i.  and  of  a  merchant's  seal  in  the  said  WilUam's  keeping,  the 
manslaughter  of  Geoffrey  de  Langton,  the  theft  of  one  cow  and  other 
chattels  of  Robert  de  Riddyng  price  IO5.,  of  breaking  the  church  of 
Preston  and  feloniously  carrying  away  IOO5.  in  coined  money  in  an 
ambry  in  the  chancel  thereof,  of  breaking  the  chamber  of  Henry  de 
Preston  chaplain  at  Preston  and  feloniously  carrying  away  10  marks 
and  a  mazer  of  the  said  Henry  price  65.  8d.,  and  of  being  a  notorious 
thief  ;  and  after  at  the  request  of  John  archbishop  of  York  his 
diocesan  he  was  by  the  said  justices  delivered  to  the  said  archbishop 
according  to  the  benefit  of  clergy,  and  there  lawfully  purged  his 
innocence,  as  the  archbishop  has  signified  to  the  king. 

The  like  to  William  de  Chorley  late  escheator,  mutatis  mutandis. 

Nov.  10.  To  John  Froille  escheator  in  the  county  of  Suthampton.  Order  to 
Westminster,  take  of  AUce  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Norton  tenant  in  chief  an  oath 
that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  in  presence  of 
Hamon  parson  of  Fynchampstede  to  whom  the  king  has  committed 
the  Avardship  thereof,  if  being  w^arned  he  will  attend,  to  assign  her 
dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his 
death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  sending  the  assignment 
to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

Nov.  20.         To  Richard  de  Tounlay  escheator  in  Lancashire.     Order  of  the 
Westminster,  king's  favour  to  restore  to  Jolm  de  Hakenshawe  clerk,  unless  he  was 


45    EDWARD    IH.  209 


1371.  Membrane  8 — cont. 

a  fugitive,  his  lands,  goods  and  chattels  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  William  dc  Chorley  late  escheator  by  reason  of  the  felonies  for 
which  he  \\as  indicted  ;  as  he  was  lately  indicted  before  Godfrey 
Folejambe  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  Lanca- 
shire, ujjon  charges  of  the  manslaughter  of  Geoffrey  de  Langeton  and 
William  le  Clerk  of  Preston,  and  of  the  robbery  of  33s.  4d.  and  of  a 
merchant's  seal  in  the  said  William's  keeping,  and  after  at  the 
request  of  John  archbishop  of  York  the  diocesan  was  by  the  said 
justices  delivered  to  the  said  archbishop  according  to  the  benefit  of 
clergy,  and  there  lawfully  purged  his  innocence,  as  the  archbishop 
has  signified  to  the  king. 

The  like  to  William  dc  Chorley  late  escheator,  mutatis  mutandis. 

Membrane  7. 

Dec.  2.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  deliver 

Westminster,  to  William  de  Monte  Acuto  earl  of  Salisbury,  son  and  heir  of  William 
de  Monte  Aeuto  tlie  late  earl  and  marshal  of  England,  such  farm  of 
the  priory  of  Montacute  as  used  to  be  paid  to  the  king  for  the  keeping 
thereof  before  the  same  was  granted  to  the  late  earl  and  to  his  heirs, 
and  as  the  prior  ought  to  pay  the  king  if  the  keeping  thereof  were 
granted  to  liim  by  the  king,  with  the  arrears  thereof  since  the  priory  was 
taken  into  the  king's  hand,  to  hold  so  long  as  the  priory  shall  remain  in 
the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  war  with  France,  thereof  discharging 
the  prior  at  the  exchequer ;  as  in  consideration  of  the  late  earl's  zealous 
faithfulness  and  fruitful  service  the  king  gave  to  him  and  his  heirs 
for  ever  the  ad  vow  son  of  the  said  priory  to  hold  of  the  king  and  his 
heirs  ;  and  after  observing  his  faithful  and  praiseworthy  behaviour 
upon  the  king's  service  and  the  high  place  which  he  held,  and  willing 
to  shew  him  further  favour,  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  that  he 
and  his  heirs  should  have  the  keeping  of  the  said  priory  and  all  things 
thereto  belonging  as  well  in  times  when  it  should  be  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  with  other  alien  priories  and  religious  houses  and  possessions 
within  the  realm  by  reason  of  wars  between  the  king  and  the  French  or 
between  the  two  kingdoms  or  for  any  other  cause  as  in  times  of  vacancy 
by  death,  deposition  or  resignation  of  the  prior  or  otherwise,  disposing 
thereof  as  they  should  deem  to  be  for  their  own  advantage  and  the 
good  of  the  priory,  and  taking  the  issues  and  profits  at  all  such  times 
as  fully  as  would  the  king  if  he  kept  the  priory  or  the  keeping  thereof 
in  his  own  hands,  without  that  that  the  king,  his  heirs  or  ministers 
whatsoever  should  in  aught  meddle  therewith,  that  answer  should  be 
made  to  the  said  earl  for  the  farm  which  the  keepers  or  monks  thereof 
were  bound  to  render  j^early  to  the  king  for  the  keeping  of  the  said 
priory,  then  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  war  with  France,  and 
for  the  arrears  if  any,  the  keepers  thereof  being  altogether  discharged 
toward  the  king  ;  and  the  said  now  earl  has  now  prayed  the  king 
for  livery  of  the  keeping  of  the  said  priory  and  the  issues  and  profits 
thereof,  according  to  the  said  grant,  from  the  time  the  same  was  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  because  the  peace  made  at  Calais  between  the  king 
and  the  French  his  adversaries  was  by  them  broken,  and  desiring  that 
the  said  grant  may  take  effect  as  far  as  may  be  without  breach  of 
the  agreement  and  ordinance  made  in  parliament,  at  the  time  when  it 
was  resolved  that  alien  priories,  houses  and  possessions  should  be  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  in  aid  of  the  war,  namely  that  as  well  for  the  good 
governance  thereof  as  for  maintenance  of  divine  worship  therein  the 


270 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLvS. 


1371. 


Membrane  7 — cont. 


priors  and  other  presidents  or  their  proctors  shall  be  preferred  to 
others  for  keeping  the  same,  rendering  to  the  king  what  may  be  agreed 
between  them,  it  is  the  king's  \\ill  that,  in  aid  of  the  war  and  in  order 
that  the  said  earl  may  the  better  maintain  himself  in  the  king's  wars, 
he  shall  during  the  war  have  and  take  the  farm  aforesaid  of  the  prior 
of  Montacute,  provided  that  the  said  earl  or  his  ministers  shall  not 
meddle  in  the  keeping  or  ruling  of  the  priory  or  in  aught  belonging 
to  the  same. 


137;2. 
Jan.  18. 

Westminster. 


To  the  prior  of  Montacute  priory.  Writ  de  intendendo,  ordering 
him  to  pay  to  the  said  earl  the  farm  above  mentioned  so  long  as  the 
priory  shall  remain  in  the  king's  hand  for  the  aforesaid  cause,  and  the 
arrears  thereof  from  the  time  the  priory  was  taken  into  the  king's 
hand. 

To  John  de  Greseley  sheriff  of  Stafford  and  William  de  Halughton. 
Order  not  to  meddle  henceforward  with  Routon  priory  or  with  the 
lands  or  other  possessions  thereof,  nor  to  suffer  any  other  so  to  do 
in  the  king's  name  by  virtue  of  the  king's  late  letters  patent  com- 
mitting to  them  the  keeping  of  the  said  priory,  lands  and  possessions, 
which  for  particular  causes  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  leaving 
the  priory  in  the  state  in  which  they  found  the  same  ;  as  for  particular 
causes  laid  before  the  king  and  council  he  has  revoked  their 
commission.  By  C. 


Dec.  3.  To  William  de  Cranewell  sheriff  of  Cornwall.     Order,  under  pain  of 

Westminster,  forfeiture,  in  presence  of  Walter  de  Hanle  the  king's  serjeant  at  arms 
and  lieutenant  of  Robert  de  Assheton  admiral  of  the  fleet  from  the 
mouth  of  the  Thames  westward,  whom  the  king  is  sending  for  the 
purpose,  by  indenture  to  be  made  between  the  sheriff  and  the  said 
Walter  on  the  king's  part  and  the  merchants  on  their  part  containing 
the  ships,  goods  and  merchandise  and  the  value  thereof,  to  deliver 
to  John  Mountier  master  of  a  ship  called  la  Seint  Martyn  of  Luscebon, 
John  Alfons  master  of  la  Seint  Crois  of  Portyngale,  Nicholas  Mena 
master  of  la  Seint  Michel  of  the  king  of  Portyngale,  and  Goncaleon 
Grande  master  of  la  Seint  Marie  of  Portyngale,  being  merchants  of 
Portyngale  of  the  king's  friendship  it  is  said,  their  said  ships  and 
the  goods  and  merchandise  therein  if  the  same  exist  or  the  value 
thereof  if  they  do  not,  in  whose  hands  soever  they  shall  be,  freely  to 
take  whither  they  will,  certifying  the  king  by  the  said  Walter  when 
this  command  is  executed  of  all  their  action  in  the  matter  ;  as  the 
king  has  received  the  complaint  of  the  said  merchants  that  they 
with  their  said  ships  laded  with  divers  goods  and  merchandise  on 
their  voyages  towards  Portingale  were  by  a  storm  driven  to  land  at 
Falemuth  co.  Cornwall  and  Plummuth  co.  Devon,  and  were  arrested 
by  the  sheriff  and  other  ministers  of  Edward  prince  of  Aquitaine 
and  Wales,  and  their  said  ships  and  goods  kept  under  arrest,  and  that 
though  many  times  they  craved  of  the  sheriff  and  the  said  ministers 
livery  of  the  said  ships  and  goods,  being  the  king's  friends  as  they 
offered  to  prove,  the  sheriff  and  ministers  have  heretofore  taken  no 
heed  to  give  them  livery  thereof,  to  the  scandal  of  the  people  and  a 
pernicious  example  to  other  the  king's  friends  ;  and  for  that  the  king's 
son  John  duke  of  Lancastre,  who  says  that  he  has  knowledge  of  the 


45  EDWARD  lU.  271 


1371.  Membrane  7 — cont. 

said  merchants,  has  testified  that  they  were  and  are  the  king's  tnie 
friends,  it  is  the  king's  will  that  restitution  be  made  them.     By  K.  and  C. 

Dec.  25.  To  John  Knyvet  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hold  pleas 
Westminster,  before  the  king.  Order  to  cause  inquisition  touching  the  matters 
hereinafter  rehearsed  to  be  made  by  true  men  of  the  vicinage  of 
Stratford  upon  Aven  co.  VVarrewyk,  within  liberties  and  without, 
not  allied  to  John  de  Peyto  the  elder  by  any  affinity  or  kinship,  and 
further  to  do  as  the  law  and  custom  of  England  require  ;  as  in  a 
cause  which  was  in  chancery  between  the  king  and  the  said  John 
concerning  the  unlawful  occupation  and  receipt  of  the  issues  and  profits 
of  the  manor  of  Stratford  upon  Aven,  wliich  is  parcel  of  the 
temporalities  of  the  bishopric  of  Worcester  and  was  by  the  said  John 
ac(iuired  for  his  life  without  the  king's  licence  of  Wolstan  late  bishop 
of  Worcester  on  12  August  in  the  13th  year  of  the  reign,  rendering 
to  the  said  bishop  and  his  successors  60/.  a  year  at  Michaelmas,  the 
feast  of  St.  Andrew,  the  Aimunciation  and  Midsummer  by  even  portions, 
the  said  John  by  Robert  Burgylon  his  attorney  alleged  that  at  that 
time  the  said  manor  was  worth  no  more  than  GOl.  a  year,  and  craved 
proof  thereof,  and  Michael  Skillyng  suing  for  the  king  said  that  at  the 
time  of  the  demise  the  same  was  worth  and  is  yet  worth  71/.  35.  4d., 
as  found  by  inquisition  of  his  office  taken  by  John  Rous  late  escheator 
and  returned  in  chancery,  craving  that  inquisition  be  thereupon  had 
by  the  country,  and  the  said  John  de  Peyto  likewise  ;  and  because 
the  issues  and  profits  of  the  manor  from  12  August  aforesaid  to  the 
feast  of  St.  Barnabas  in  the  44th  year,  on  which  day  the  same  was 
by  the  said  escheator  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  virtue  of  the 
said  inquisition,  pertain  to  the  king,  as  appears  by  a  record  and  process 
had  before  the  king  in  chancery,  the  king  has  given  the  said  John  de 
Peyto  a  day  to  be  before  him  in  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  next  to  do 
and  receive  what  shall  be  lawful  in  the  premises. 

Membrane  6. 

Dec.  29.  To  Richard  Cergeaux.     Order  not  to  meddle  further  in  the  office 

Eltham.  of  sheriff  of  Cornwall,  although  by  letters  patent  the  king  lately  com- 
mitted the  same  to  him  to  keep  during  pleasure  ;  as  the  king  has 
revoked  his  commission  because  he  formerly  gave  the  shrievalty  of 
that  county  by  charter  to  his  firstborn  son  Edward  prince  of 
Aquitaine  and  Wales  and  earl  of  Cornwall,  and  to  his  heirs  the  kings 
of  England  to  be. 

Dec.  18.  To  Richard  Norwych  escheator  in  Kent  and  Sussex.  Order  to 
Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors 
of  Whitestaple,  Flete,  Bok\Tigfold  and  Olderomeneye  co.  Kent,  the 
manor  of  Laughton  and  hundred  of  Shepelake  co.  Sussex  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Thomas  de  Veer  earl  of .  Oxford, 
delivering  to  Maud  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  divers  inquisitions,  taken  by  John  de  Bysshopeston  late 
escheator,  that  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court,  at  his  death  the 
said  earl  and  Maud  held  jointly  to  them  and  the  earl's  heirs  the  manors 
and  hundred  aforesaid,  and  that  the  manor  of  Laughton  and  the  said 
hundred  are  held  of  the  king  as  of  the  honour  of  I'Aigle  by  fealty  and 
by  the  service  of  doing  suit  at  his  court  of  Rip  every  three  weeks,  and 


272 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371. 


Membrane  6 — cont. 


the  other  manors  of  others  than  the  king;  and  the  king  has  caused 
the  said  Maud's  fealty  to  be  taken  by  Simon  bishop  of  London. 

To  Tliomas  Sewale  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.  Like  order, 
mutatis  mutandis,  concerning  the  manor  of  Chesham  and  the  view 
of  frankpledge  in  Chesham  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  Jolm  de  Olneye  late  escheator,  that  by  fine  levied  in  the 
king's  court  with  his  licence  the  said  earl  and  Maud  his  wife  held  the 
same  jointly  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  in  chief  by  knight 
service. 

To  John  Bataille  escheator  in  Essex  and  Hertfordshire.  Like 
order,  mutatis  mutandis,  concerning  the  manor  of  Rameseye  co.  Essex, 
the  manor  of  Westewyk  in  the  to^^^l  of  Kyngebury  and  the  manor  of 
Welles  in  the  town  of  Offeleye  co.  Hertford  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  John  Welde  late  escheator,  that  by  fine  levied 
in  the  king's  court  the  said  earl  and  Maud  hold  the  said  manors  jointly, 
the  manors  of  Rameseye  and  Westwyk  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their 
bodies,  and  the  manor  of  Welles  to  them  and  the  said  earl's  heirs. 

Dec.  18.  To  John  Bataille  escheator  in  Essex.     Order  to  remove  the  king's 

Westminster,  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Wrabbenase  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  the  said  earl's  death,  delivering  to  the  said 
Maud  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  John  atte  Welde  late  escheator,  that  at  his  death  the  said 
earl  held  that  manor  in  right  of  the  said  Maud,  and  that  the  same  is 
held  of  others  than  the  king. 


Dec.  18.  To  Thomas  Caus  of  Hokkam  escheator  in  Suffolk.    Order  to  deUver 

Westminster,  in  dower  to  Maud  who  w^as  wife  of  Thomas  de  Veer  earl  of  Oxford  tenant 
in  chief  the  manors  of  Overhall  in  Lavenham  extended  at  28/.  145.  Z\d. 
a  year,  of  Netherhall  in  Lavenham  at  4Z.  35.  2d.,  and  of  Aldham  at 
13/.  125.  46/.,  and  certain  tenements  called  Hellond  at  205.  ^\d. 
together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since  his  death  ;  as  having 
caused  an  oath  to  be  taken  of  her  by  Simon  bishop  of  London  that 
she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  Licence,  with  the  assent  of 
Thomas  Tyrell,  John  de  Estbury  and  John  James,  to  whom  the  king 
has  granted  the  wardship  of  two  thirds  of  the  said  earl's  manors,  lands 
and  rents  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of 
the  nonage  of  his  heir,  the  king  has  assigned  to  the  said  Maud  the 
said  manors  of  Overhall,  Netherhall  and  Aldham  and  the  said  tene- 
ments called  Helland  co.  Suffolk,  the  manors  of  Great  Hormad  co. 
Hertford  extended  at  17/.  a  year,  of  Earls  Colne  co.  Essex  at  10/.  95.  5rf., 
and  Benteley  co.  Essex  at  11.  135.  4(/.,  a  toft,  15  acres  of  land,  8  acres 
of  meadow  and  205.  of  rent  in  Couleye  co.  Bukingham  at  355.,  the 
manors  of  Great  Abyton  co.  Cantebrigge  at  16/.  135.  8J(/.,  and 
Rydelyngwolde  co.  Kent  at  10/.,  certain  tenements  at  Cherleton  co. 
Kent  at  1005.,  and  the  fourth  part  of  two  thirds  the  manor  of  Kynges- 
doun  CO.  Kent  extended  at  355.  IQd.  a  year,  rendering  at  the  exchequer 
until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  heir,  and  to  the  heir  when  of  age,  IO5. 4c/. 
a  year  which  is  the  excess  of  her  said  dower  over  the  third  part  of  the 
said  lands  ;  and  for  29/.  95.  4Jc/.  by  her  paid  has  granted  her  all  the 
issues  and  profits  thereof  arising  since  the  said  earl's  death. 


45  EDWARD  Til.  273 


1,371.  Membrane  6 — cont. 

To  John  Bataillo  escheator  in  Essex  and  Hertfordsliiro.  Order  to 
deliver  in  dower  to  tlie  said  Maud  the  manors  of  Earls  Colne  and 
Jienteleye  co.  Essex  and  (ireat  Horniad  co.  Hertford,  which  the  king 
has  assigned  to  her  among  other  lands  of  her  husband. 

To  Thomas  Sewall  escheator  in  liukinghamshire  and  (Cambridge- 
shire. Like  order  to  deliver  in  dower  to  the  saitl  Maud  a  toft, 
15  acres  of  land,  8  acres  of  meadow  and  205.  of  rent  in  C'ouleye  co. 
Bukingham  and  the  manor  of  Great  Abyton  co.  Cantebrigge. 

To  Richard  Norwych  escheator  in  Kent.  Like  order  to  deliver  in 
dower  to  the  said  Maud  the  manor  of  Rydelyngwelde  and  certain 
tenements  at  Cherleton. 

Membrane  5. 

Nov.  20.  To  Edmund  Che\'Tie  escheator  in  Somerset.  Order  to  keep  a  third 
Westminster,  part  of  the  manor  of  Orchardlegh  in  the  king's  hand  until  furtlier  order, 
to  take  the  fealty  of  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  Henry  de  Merlaund 
according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  remove  the  king's 
hand  and  not  meddle  further  with  two  thirds  of  the  said  manor  and 
other  lands  not  held  of  the  king,  which  were  taken  into  his  hand  by 
the  death  of  Henry  son  of  Henry  dc  Merlaund,  delivering  up  any 
issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's 
command  by  William  Cheyne  late  escheator,  that  Henry  de  Merlaund 
at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of 
fee,  but  held  the  said  manor  in  chief  by  the  service  of  the  moiety 
of  one  knight's  fee  jointly  with  the  said  Margaret  during  their  lives  of 
the  gift  of  William  Flemmyng  parson  of  St.  Tathan  and  Robert  Gayner 
parson  of  Orchardlegh  made  with  the  king's  licence  to  them  and  the 
heirs  of  the  said  Henry,  and  divers  other  lands  as  well  in  his  demesne 
as  of  fee  as  for  life  held  of  others  than  the  king  ;  and  the  said  licence 
was  given  to  the  said  Henry  son  of  Henry  to  enfeoff  the  said  William 
and  Robert  and  their  heirs  of  two  thirds  of  the  said  manor  which  is 
held  in  chief,  and  to  grant  to  them  also  the  remainder  of  one  third 
thereof,  held  in  dower  of  his  heritage  by  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Henry 
de  Merlaund  a\  ith  reversion  to  him,  and  licence  to  the  said  William  and 
Robert,  seisin  being  had  of  the  said  two  thirds,  to  give  the  same  to 
the  said  Henry  son  of  Henry  and  to  Margaret  his  wife  and  the  heirs 
of  Henry  son  of  Henry,  and  having  received  the  attornment  of  the 
said  Joan,  to  grant  the  remainder  of  the  said  third  part  after  her 
death  likewise  to  the  said  Henry  son  of  Henry  and  the  said  Margaret 
and  to  the  heirs  of  Henry  son  of  Henry  ;  and  the  king  is  not  assured 
whether  the  said  Joan  is  yet  living  or  no. 

Nov,  20.  To  William  Palmere  escheator  in  Leycestershire.  Order  to  deliver 
Westminster,  in  dower  to  JMai'garet  \\ho  \\as  wife  of  William  de  Ferrariis  of  Groby 
knight  tenant  in  cliief  such  of  the  Icnights'  fees  and  parts  of  fees  late  of 
her  said  husband  to  her  assigned  as  are  in  his  bailiwick  ;  as  of  the  said 
fees  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  said  William's  death  and  by 
reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  the  king  has  assigned  to  her  the 
moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Braundeston  held  by  the  heirs  of  Robert 
Burdet  and  extended  at  505.  a  year,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee 
in  Barkeby  held  by  Thomas  le  Roos  at  50^.,  three  quarters  of  one 
knights  fee  in  Burton  and  Upton  held  by  Margaret  de  Neville  cousin 

CR  18 


274 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1871, 


Membrave  5 — cont. 


and  one  of  the  heirs  of  Robert  de  la  VVarde  knight  at  25s.,  the  sixth 
part  of  one  knight's  foe  in  Berleston  held  by  Richard  Yerward  and 
Joan  his  wife  in  right  of  the  said  Joan  who  is  cousin  and  heir  of 
Richard  Botiler  at  20s.,  the  20th  part  and  40th  part  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  Swythelond  held  by  the  two  daughters  and  heirs  of  John  VValssh 
at  73^.,  the  third  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Sapcote  sometime  of 
William  Mareschal  and  now  held  by  Ralph  Basset  of  Sapcote  at 
326'.,  seven  knights'  fees  in  Thorpe  Arnold,  Aylmerestorp,  Thomby, 
Petlyng,  Busseby,  Belgrave,  Cropston,  Brandesby,  Babbegrave, 
Barnesby,  Stretton,  Ilveston  and  Outheby  and  the  fee  of  Nicholas  de 
Haveresham  in  Claybrok  all  now  held  by  William  la  Zouche  of 
Haryngwortho  at  35/.,  all  in  the  said  county,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  Wilderhope  co.  Salop  held  by  Burga  who  was  wife  of  Robert 
de  Harleye  at  50s.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Trumpyngton  co.  Cantebrigge 
held  by  Roger  de  Trumpyngton  at  lOOs.,  one  knight's  fee  in 
Chicheridel  co.  Essex  held  by  Thomas  Sejnicler  at  100^.,  and  the 
fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Gyngejoyberdlaundri  co.  Essex 
held  by  the  prioress  of  Eclynton  and  extended  at  25s.  a  year. 

To  Edmund  de  Burton  escheator  in  Salop  and  Staffordshire.  Order 
to  deliver  in  dower  to  the  said  Margaret  the  moiety  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  Wilderhope  held  by  Burga  who  was  wife  of  Robert  de  Harleye, 
which  the  king  has  assigned  to  the  said  Margaret  among  other  knights' 
fees  of  her  husband. 

To  William  de  Pappeworth  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire.  Like 
order,  mutatis  mutandis,  concerning  one  knight's  fee  in  Trumpyngton 
held  by  Roger  de  Trumpjmgton. 

To  John  Bataille  escheator  in  Essex.  Like  order,  mutatis  mutandis, 
concerning  one  knight's  fee  in  Chicheridel  held  by  Thomas  Seincler,  and 
the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Gyngejoberdlaundry  held  by 
the  prioress  of  Eclynton. 

To  William  Palmere  escheator  in  Leycestershire.  Order  to  deliver 
in  dower  to  the  said  Margaret  such  of  her  husband's  advowsons  to  her 
assigned  as  are  in  his  bailiwick  ;  as  the  king  has  assigned  to  her  the 
advowsons  of  the  hospital  of  St.  John  Lutterworth  which  is  not 
extended,  of  a  third  part  of  the  church  of  Doseworthe  to  present 
at  the  third  vacancy  extended  at  40/.  a  year,  both  in  the  said  county, 
of  Bryngton  church  co.  Northampton  at  59/.,  and  of  the  deanery  of  the 
free  chapel  of  Tatenhale  co.  Stafford  extended  at  205.  a  year. 

To  John  Charnels  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.  Order  to 
deliver  in  dower  to  the  said  Margaret  the  advowson  of  Bryngton 
church,  which  among  other  advowsons  of  her  husband  the  king  has 
assigned  to  her. 

The  like  to  Edmund  de  Burton  escheator  in  Staffordshire  con- 
cerning the  advowson  of  the  deanery  of  the  free  chapel  of  Tatenhale. 


Membrane   1.* 

Dec.  16.  To  Thomas  Caus  of  Hokham  escheator  in  Norffolk.     Order  to  take 

Westminster,  into  the  king's  hand  and  safe  keep  until  further  order  the  manor  of 

*   Membranes  4,  3  and  2  are  blank. 


45  EDWARD  III.  275 


1371.  Membrane  1 — cont. 

Burnham,  certifying  under  liis  seal  in  chancery  what  he  shall  do  in 
the  premises,  and  sending  again  this  writ  ;  as  the  king  is  informed 
of  a  surety  that  Ralph  de  Hemenaie  knight  deceased,  who  held  the 
said  manor  in  cliief  as  of  the  honour  of  Dovorre  castle,  without  the 
king's  licence  aliened  the  same  in  his  life  time  to  certain  persons 
in  fee. 

Dec.  3.  To  Richard  de  Imworth  keeper  of  the  marshalsea  prison  before  the 

Westminster,  king.  Order  to  deliver  to  Jolm  But,  Alexander  de  Storteford  and 
Conan  Cely  or  two  of  them  tlic  body  of  Jolin  ap  Lytliyn  by  the  king's 
order  detained  under  the  said  Richard's  custody  in  that  prison,  to 
be  by  them  taken  to  the  castle  of  Edward  prince  of  Aquitaine  and 
Wales  at  Walyngford  and  there  delivered  to  the  constable  thereof 
to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  until  further  order.  By  C. 

1372. 

Jan.  20.  To  the  collectors  of  3c?.  in  the  pound  in  the  port  of  Plymmuth. 

Westminster.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Leonard  Molyn  burgess  of  la  Rochelc,  to 
stay  their  demand  upon  him  made  for  'M.  in  the  pound  upon  the 
wine  brought  thither  by  him  over  and  above  the  ancient  custom 
of  2s.  upon  every  tun,  suffering  him  to  be  thereof  quit,  and  releasing 
any  distress  made  for  that  cause  ;  as  the  said  Leonard  has  shewn 
that  he  brought  84  tuns  of  wine  to  the  said  port  from  the  town  of 
la  Rochele,  and  that  although  he  has  paid  the  ancient  custom  afore- 
said thereupon  the  collectors  are  unlawfully  demanding  of  him  Zd. 
in  the  pound  over  and  above  the  said  custom,  praymg  for  remedy. 
Proviso  that  answer  be  made  to  the  king  for  the  ancient  custom,  and 
2s.  a  tun  for  the  subsidy  last  granted  him  by  the  merchants. 

Jan.  20.  To  the  bailiffs    and    true    men    of    the    city  of  York.     Order    on 

Westminster,  sight  of  these  presents  forthwith  by  common  consent  to  cause  one 
citizen  of  the  said  city  fit  and  trusty  for  the  ruling  thereof  to  be 
elected  and  appointed  mayor,  provided  that  neither  John  de  Langeton 
nor  John  de  Gisebournc  be  mayor  nor  meddle  in  such  election,  and  strict 
order  forbidding  them  to  suffer  any  debates,  abusive  language  or  unlawful 
assemblies  to  take  place  in  that  city  whereby  the  peace  may  be  broken 
and  the  people  there  put  in  fear  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  that  there 
is  strife  between  John  de  Langeton  and  John  de  Gisebourne  citizens 
of  York,  namely  ^\■hich  of  them  was  made  mayor  for  the  present  year, 
whereby  great  number  of  the  citizens  adhering  to  one  party  and  the 
other  do  grievously  strive  together  to  the  terror  of  the  people  of  the 
city  and  the  breach  and  disturbance  of  the  peace,  whereat  the  king 
is  moved  to  anger ;  and  the  king  would  obviate  the  peril  which 
threatens  in  that  behalf,  and  take  order  for  the  good  governance  of 
the  city.  By  K.  and  C. 

1371. 

Dec.  14.  To  Alan  de  Buxhill  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London,  or  to  his 

Westminster,  lieutenant  there.     Order  to  set  free  William  Tonge  of  London  and 

Thomas  Clerk  of  Bristol,   who   by  the  king's  order  are   imprisoned 

therein  for  certain  trespasses  by  them  committed  upon  merchants  of 

Portyngale  it  is  said,  if  detained  for  that  cause  and  for  none  other. 

1372. 

Jan.  24.  To  the  sheriff  of  Roteland.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Thomas  Peres,  who  is  sick  and  aged. 


276 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


187L  Ml'MHRANE  41rf. 

VA).  \.  John  Herbergc  of  Reylegh  to  William  de  Berland  knight.     Recog- 

Woatininster.  nisance  for  2UU/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Essex. 

Memorandum  that  this  recognisance  was  taken  by  the  chancellor. 

Feb.  3.  To  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton.     Order,  under  pain  of  forfeiture,  on 

Westminster,  sight  of  these  presents  forthwith  to  cease  every  excuse  and  cause 
proclamation  to  be  made  on  the  king's  behalf  in  all  fairs,  markets, 
hundreds,  boroughs,  market  towns  etc.  as  well  in  the  Isle  of  Wyght  as 
elsewhere  in  his  bailiwick,  within  liberties  and  without,  that  all  and 
singular  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition  who  have  lands  within  the 
said  i.sland  and  dwell  not  therein  shall  under  pain  of  forfeiture  with 
all  speed  draw  thither  and  there  continually  abide  in  such  power  as 
they  may  with  their  men  and  all  their  household,  so  as  to  be  there  in 
the  first  week  of  Lent  next  upon  the  defence  of  the  sea  coast  against 
attacks  of  the  king's  enemies  of  France,  and  that  if  they  come  not 
within  one  month  there  to  dwell  as  aforesaid,  the  king  will  cause  all 
their  lands,  goods  and  chattels  within  the  island  to  be  taken  into  his 
hand  in  name  of  distress,  and  of  the  issues  of  the  same  will  find  other 
men  sufficient  for  the  defence  thereof  ;  as  the  said  enemies  having 
many  times  invaded  divers  towns  in  England  upon  the  sea  coast 
and  made  divers  burnings  there,  have  assembled  a  great  host  of  ships 
witli  men  at  arms  and  armed  men,  purposing  therewith  to  land  within 
the  realm  as  speedily  as  they  may,  and  to  destroy  the  same  if  their 
malice  be  not  resisted  with  the  strong  hand  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will 
by  what  means  he  may  to  make  provision  against  such  hurt  and 
peril.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Feeder  a.} 

The  like,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall  and  to  five 
other  sheriffs  of  eight  counties. 

[Ibid.} 

To  the  arrayers  in  the  Isle  of  Wight  of  men  at  arms,  armed  men 
and  archers,  the  keepers,  steward  and  bailiffs  of  the  said  island  and 
every  of  them.  Like  order  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made, 
and  if  they  come  not,  to  cause  the  lands,  goods  and  chattels  of  land- 
owners within  the  island  to  be  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  certifying 
in  chancery  within  ten  days  after  the  month  the  names  of  all  and 
singular  who  repaired  thither  within  the  month  there  to  dwell  upon 
the  defence  thereof,  and  who  did  not,  what  lands,  goods  and  chattels 
shall  be  taken  into  the  king's  hand  for  their  not  coming,  the  owners 
and  value  thereof,  that  of  the  issues  of  the  same  the  king  may  find 
other  men  to  dwell  upon  the  defence  of  the  island.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Ihid.] 

Feb.  5.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  stay 

Westminster,  until  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next  their  demand  made  by  exchequer 
sumrnons  upon  John  de  Chichestre  late  mayor  of  the  city  of  London 
and  escheator  therein  to  account  for  6  marks  10s.  ^d.  of  rent  issuing 
from  tenements  late  of  Henry  Gubbe,  which  are  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  for  that  they  were  put  to  mortmain  without  the  king's  licence. 

Feb.  3.  To  John  Moubray,   Roger  de   Elinrugge,   Henry   Percehay,   John 

Westminster.  Baldyndon   and  John  Herdewyke.     Order   to   stay  altogether  until 

further  order  the  further  execution  of  the  king's  late  commission 


45    KDWARD    III.  277 


1371.  Membrane  41rf — cont. 

by  letters  patent  to  them,  four,  three  and  two  of  them  of  wliom  John 
Moubray  should  be  one,  appointing  them  justices  at  the  suit  of  John 
Leukenore  to  hear  and  determine  certain  alleged  trespasses  against 
him  committed  by  Robert  Mile  chaplain  and  certain  other  evildoers  ; 
as  it  is  witnessed  before  tlie  king  and  council  that  tlie  said  commission 
was  procured  in  chancery  by  untrue  suggestion.  By  C. 

Feb.  6.  John  de  Pekbrugge  knight,  William  de  Tarent  clerk  and  Nicholas 

Westminster.  Potyn  citizen  of  London  to  John  Hydyngham  citizen  of  London. 
Recognisance  for  200/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their 
lands  and  chattels  in  Middlesex. 

Memorandum  that  this  recognisance  was  taken  by  the  chancellor. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Feb.  6,  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.     Order  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  of 

Wostininster.  the  peace  and  concord  made  between  the  king  for  himself,  his 
dominions  and  subjects  on  the  one  part  and  the  doge,  commonalty 
and  dislrettuali  of  Genoa  on  the  other  part,  the  remission  and  pardon 
of  all  and  singular  the  wrongs,  damages,  homicides,  robberies,  trespasses, 
violence  and  rapine  and  of  all  actions  real  and  personal  begun  or 
committed  on  either  side,  and  that  all  and  singular  the  citizens,  lawful 
merchants  and  dislrettuali  of  Genoa  may  as  the  king's  friends  and 
well  wishers  peaceably  and  freely  in  security  enter,  dwell  in  and 
leave  his  kingdom  and  power  and  traffic  there,  exporting  and  importing 
lawful  goods  and  merchandise,  having  their  conversation,  passage 
and  return  as  well  by  land  as  by  sea  through  his  realm  and  power  so 
often  as  shall  be  convenient  and  as  every  of  them  shall  think  fit, 
without  let,  arrest,  trouble,  marque,  reprisal  or  grievance  in  person  or 
property  done  to  them  or  any  of  them  hereafter  by  the  king  or  any  of 
his  ministers  or  subjects,  provided  that  they  shall  deal  amicably  and 
peaceably  within  his  realm  and  power  by  land  and  sea,  plying  lawful 
traffic  and  paying  him  customs  and  duties  (deveria),  not  making 
confederacies  or  alliances  wdth  his  adversaries  and  enemies  of  France 
and  Spain  or  any  other  his  enemies  present  or  future  against  tlie 
king,  his  realm,  dominions  or  subjects,  not  standing  or  abiding 
in  aid  or  service  of  such  enemies  with  pay  or  without  with  galleys 
or  other  vessels  by  land  or  sea,  and  not  doing  or  causing  other 
grievance  to  the  king  or  his  subjects  in  person  or  property  whatsoever  ; 
as  peace,  concord  and  friendship  has  been  again  newly  made  between 
the  said  parties,  and  under  particular  forms  and  conditions  the  wrongs 
etc.  aforesaid  have  been  for  ever  acquitted  and  altogether  pardoned 
on  either  side,  as  is  contained  in  public  instruments  and  letters  made 
between  the  parties.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Foidera.] 

The  like  to  the  sheriff  of  Sussex,  to  ten  other  sheriffs  of  twelve 
counties,  and  to  the  sheriffs  of  London. 

[Ibid.] 

Feb.  6.  Edmund  Rose  to  William  de  Gresleye  clerk,  John  de  Plouseld  clerk 

Westminster,  and  John  Vj^ncent  of  London.     Recognisance  for  1,000  marks,  to  be 
levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Berkshire. 
Memorandum  that  this  recognisance  was  taken  by  the  chancellor. 


278 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371.  MhMUUAXK    40(1. 

Feb.  8.  To  tlie  arrayers  in  the  Isle  of  Wight  of  men  at  arms,  armed  men 

Weatminster.  and  archers,  the  steward,  keepers  and  haihffs  of  the  said  ishind 
and  every  of  them.  Order,  under  pain  of  f(jrfeiture,  for  particular 
causes  laid  before  the  king  and  council,  to  cause  proclamation  to  be 
made  in  singular  the  fairs,  markets  and  other  places  therein  on  the 
king's  behalf  forbidding  any  num  under  pain  of  forfeiture  to  take  or 
cause  to  be  taken  corn  and  other  victuals  out  of  the  said  island  by 
land  or  water,  and  to  take  and  arrest  by  their  bodies  all  found  so 
doing  after  the  proclamation  with  such  com  and  victuals  and  the 
vessels  wherein  they  shall  be  so  taken  as  forfeit  to  the  king,  causing 
answer  to  be  mad(!  to  the  king  for  the  same,  and  the  offenders  to  be 
imprisoned  until  further  order.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Foedera.] 

Feb.  6.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  to  cause  proclamation 

Wostniiiister.  to  be  made  in  the  said  city  and  the  suburbs  thereof,  that  all  merchants, 
vintners  and  others  shall  under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof  cause  their 
wines  for  sale  to  be  gauged  without  delay,  to  take  as  forfeit  into  the 
king's  hand  according  to  the  statute  all  wines  which  shall  be  found 
exposed  for  sale  after  the  proclamation  and  not  gauged,  arresting  and 
imprisoning  under  sure  custody  until  further  order  all  who  shall  make 
debate  or  resistance  and  will  not  suffer  their  \\ines  for  sale  to  be  gauged, 
and  certifying  in  chancery  from  time  to  time  under  their  seals  what 
wine  they  have  so  arrested  and  the  price  thereof  ;  as  in  the  statute 
published  at  Westminster  in  the  27th  year  of  the  reign  it  is  contained 
(among  other  things)  that  all  wines  red  and  white  brought  for  sale  to 
England,  Ireland  and  Wales  shall  be  well  and  truly  gauged  by  the 
king's  ganger  or  his  deputy,  so  that  if  any  man  shall  make  hindrance 
or  debate  thereupon,  and  will  not  suffer  his  wdne  to  be  gauged,  he  shall 
forfeit  the  same,  shall  be  punished  by  imprisonment,  and  be  ransomed 
at  the  king's  will,  and  that  if  a  tun  or  pipe  of  wine  for  sale  shall  contain 
less  than  it  ought  according  to  the  assize,  the  price  of  so  much  wine 
as  shall  be  lacking  according  to  the  price  of  such  tun  or  pipe  sold 
shall  be  allowed  and  subtracted  in  payment  for  the  same  ;  and  in 
another  statute  after  published  in  the  31st  year  it.  is  contained  that, 
if  any  man  shall  sell  to  any  a  tun  or  pipe  of  wine  not  gauged,  the 
vendor  shall  forfeit  to  the  king  the  wine  or  the  value  thereof  ;  and 
now  the  king  is  informed  that  certain  merchants  as  well  vintners  of 
the  city  of  London  as  others  are  causing  great  numbers  of  tuns  and 
pipes  of  wine  not  gauged  to  be  lodged,  and  are  selling  the  same  in 
contempt  of  the  king,  to  the  hurt  and  deceit  of  the  people  and 
contrary  to  the  statutes  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will  to  obviate  such 
fraud,  and  that  the  said  statutes  be  observed. 


Feb.  4.  To    the    abbot    and    convent    of    Glastenbirs.     Request    to    admit 

Westminster.  William  Perceval  the  king's  Serjeant  to  their  house,  and  to  minister 
to  him  such  maintenance,  as  in  meat,  raiment  and  other  things  needful, 
as  Robert  Twyford  deceased  had  there  at  the  king's  command,  making 
and  delivering  to  him  letters  patent  under  their  common  seal  with 
express  mention  of  all  things  which  he  shall  so  take,  for  which  the 
king  will  be  especially  bound  to  them,  and  certifying  by  letters 
and  by  the  bearer  what  they  will  do  at  this  request  ;  as  the  king  is 
sending  the  said  William  to  them  in  consideration  of  his  wilHng  and 
praiseworthy  service,  desiring  to  make  provision  for  his  main- 
tenance, no  such  provision  being  yet  made.  By  p.s.  [28640.] 


45  EDWARD  III.  27f) 


1371.  Membrane  40rf — cont. 

Feb.  16.  T(j  the  sheriff  of  Kent.     Order  to  stay  the  taking  of  the  body  of 

Westminster.  Jolin  Symcok  by  mainprise  of  Nicholas  Symcok,  Robert  Hert,  John 
Coke  and  John  Hanccok  of  Kent,  bringing  this  writ  Ix'fore  the  king's 
justices  at  Westminster  at  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next  ;  as  hitely 
tlie  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  take  the  said  John  Symcok  so  as  to 
have  liim  l)efore  the  said  justices  on  that  day  to  answer  Richard 
Idelegli  concerning  a  debt  of  40s.  ;  and  the  said  defendant  has  prayed 
the  king  to  stay  the  taking  of  his  body,  as  he  is  r6ady  to  stand  to 
right  and  answer  the  said  Richard  ;  and  the  said  XichoUis  and  the 
others,  ajipearing  in  person  in  cliancery,  have  mainperned  under  a 
pain  of  40/.  to  have  him  at  that  day  before  the  said  justices  to  stand 
to  right  as  aforesaid. 

Feb.  22.  To  the  prior  and  convent  of  Mount  St.  Michael  in  Cornwall.     Order 

Westminster,  again,  asfonuerly  ordered,  to  admit  Roger  le  Copper  the  king's  yeoman 
to  their  house,  and  minister  to  him  such  maintenance  as  Reynold 
Trewemath  had  there,  who  was  for  ])articular  causes  outlawed, 
delivering  to  him  the  arrears  thereof,  making  him  letters  patent  with 
mention  of  what  he  shall  so  take,  and  writing  again  by  the  bearer 
what  they  will  do  at  this  command,  or  signifying  the  cause  wherefore 
they  would  not  or  might  not  execute  the  command  formerly  addressed 
to  them  ;  as  on  12  May  in  the  15th  year  of  the  reign,  willing  to  make 
fitting  provision  for  his  maintenance,  the  king  sent  the  said  Roger 
to  the  said  prior  and  convent,  requesting  them  to  admit  him  to  their 
house  and  minister  to  him  as  aforesaid,  making  him  the  like  letters 
patent  under  the  common  seal  of  their  house. 

Writing  of  William  Suanlond,  son  of  Sir  Simon  Swanlond  knight  of 
Middlesex,  giving  with  warranty  to  John  Biernes  citizen  and  mercer 
of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  20/.  yearly  of  free  and  quit  rent, 
namely  10/.  yearly  of  his  manor  of  Herefeld  co.  JMiddlesex  and  10/. 
of  his  manor  of  North  Mymmes  co.  Hertford  to  be  taken  at  Michaelmas 
and  Easter  by  even  portions,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  ;  and 
the  said  William  has  delivered  to  the  said  John  40f/.  in  name  of  seisin 
of  the  said  rent  of  Herefeld,  and  40cZ.  in  name  of  seisin  of  the  said  rent 
of  North  Mymmes.  Witnesses  :  James  Andreu,  William  Essex, 
Adam  Stable,  John  Dovy,  William  Boyvile  clerk.  Dated  London, 
24  February,  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  before  the  chancellor  at  Suth- 
werk,  25  February. 

Writing  of  Gilbert  Champeneys  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  being  an 
attornment  to  Reynold  de  Cobeham  parson  of  Coulyng,  John  do 
Idelegh  and  Richard  his  brother,  and  warranty  to  them,  their  heirs 
and  assigns,  of  the  marsh  of  the  said  Gilbert  and  Elizabeth  in 
Chattenemersch,  the  reversion  of  which  marsh  they  the  said  Gilbert 
and  Elizabeth  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  lately  granted  to 
Richard  Tewder  clerk  and  William  Kerl,  and  thereupon  the  said 
Richard  and  William  granted  the  same  to  the  said  Reynold,  John 
and  Ricliard,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  after  the  decease  of  the  said 
Gilbert  and  Elizabeth.     Dated  4  March  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  Gilbert  Chaumpeneys 
7  March. 


280 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371.  Membkane  39(/. 

March  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  Berkshire.  Order  to  make  inquisition  concerning 
Wostuuaster.  the  goods  and  chattels  whcitsoever  which  wen;  of  John  Fenner  of 
Merchehani  before  lie  abjured  the  realm,  in  whose  hands  they  are, 
and  who  ought  to  answer  to  the  king  for  them,  and  to  cause  all  such 
goods  and  chattels  to  be  seized  into  the  king's  hand  wherever  found 
and  safe  keep  theni  until  further  order  without  removal  of  aught, 
sending  the  inquisition  so  taken  to  the  exchequer  under  his  seal,  also 
this  writ ;  as  lately  the  said  John  acknowledged  at  Mercheham  church 
before  John  Edmund  one  of  the  coroners  of  Berkshire  that  he  is  a 
thief,  and  that  he  feloniously  broke  the  house  of  John  Soutere  at 
Mercheham  by  night  and  stole  6  bushels  of  wheat  price  85.  and 
4  bushels  of  malt  price  45.,  wherefore  he  there  abjured  the  realm,  as 
the  king  is  assured  by  the  said  coroner's  certificate  sent  into  chancery 
at  his  command  ;  and  the  king  is  informed  that  great  number  of  his 
said  goods  and  chattels,  for  whicli  by  law  answer  ought  to  be  made 
to  the  king,  are  in  the  hands  of  divers  men  of  that  county. 

Feb.  3.  To  Adam  de  Hogliton,  William  de  Nessefeld  and  Thomas  Molineux. 

Westminster.  Order,  for  particular  causes,  not  to  meddle  in  aught  concerning  the 
execution  of  the  king's  late  commission  by  letters  patent  appointing 
them  and  t\\  o  of  them  to  make  inquisition  by  true  men  of  Lancashire  con- 
cerning trespasses,  conspiracies,  confederacies,  extortions,  oppressions, 
chamjierties,  maintenances,  damages,  grievances,  forgeries  and  excesses 
whatsoever  committed  by  Richard  de  Radeclive  sheriff  of  that  county, 
William  de  Chorley  under  sheriff,  Richard  de  Radeclyve  the  elder, 
Thomas  his  son  and  other  of  their  confederacy  against  the  abbot  of 
Evesham,  the  prior  of  Penwortham  and  others  of  the  people  by  colour 
of  the  office  of  sheriff  and  otherwise,  but  to  send  again  the  said  letters 
to  be  cancelled  in  chancery. 

Jan.  30.  To  Adam  de  Hoghton.     Order  not  to  meddle  until  further  order  in 

Westminster,  the  execution  of  aught  contained  in  the  king's  late  commission  by 
letters  patent,  apj^ointing  him  with  John  duke  of  Lancastre  and  other 
lieges  a  guardian  of  the  peace  and  justice  of  oyer  and  terminer  in 
Lancashire,  and  to  do  other  things  there  in  the  said  commission 
contained  ;  as  the  king  has  discharged  him  from  that  office,  purposing 
to  charge  him  to  do  and  prosecute  certain  other  matters  in  the  said 
county  and  elsewhere  for  furtherance  of  the  king's  business. 

Charter  of  Thomas  Maundevyle  knight  the  younger,  giving  with 
warranty  to  John  Kyng  rector  of  Fresshewater,  James  Lacy,  John 
Blont  rector  of  Aulton  Berners  and  Jolm  Wykyng  the  elder,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  his  manor  of  Affeton  and  la  Lee  in  the  Isle  of  Wight. 
Witnesses  :  Theobald  de  Gorges,  Lawrence  de  Sancto  Martino,  Ralph 
Russel  knights,  Thomas  Haket,  Ralph  Wolferton,  Geoffrey  Rokele. 
Dated  Westminster,  8  March  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  before  the  chancellor  at  London 
(wo  date). 

Membrane  38c^. 

Charter  of  Walter  de  Pavely  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to  Thomas 
Hungerford,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the  manor  of  Mildenhale  by 
Marlebergh  co.  Wiltesir  with  the  knights'  fees,  the  advowson  of 
Mildenhale  church,  and  the  reversions  thereto  belonging.  Witnesses  : 
Robert  de  Loundres,  Richard  Haveryngg  knights,  WilUam  Worfton, 


t^ 


45  EDWARD  111.  281 


1371.  Membrane.  3Sd—<ont. 

Michael   Skyllvng,   Peter  Rameshull.     Dated   New   Sarum,    1    March 
45  Edward  111. 

Wi'iting  of  Walter  de  Pavely  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Thomas  Himgerford,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Milden- 
hale  by  Marlebergh  co.  Wiltesir,  the  knights'  fees,  the  advowson  of 
Mildenhale  church,  the  reversion  of  the  said  manor  etc.,  which  reversion 
after  the  decease  of  the  said  Thomas  w  ith  the  kniglits'  fees,  advowson 
etc.  aforesaid  Sir  Bartholomew  de  Burgherssh  knight  granted  to  him 
the  said  Walter,  William  Steel,  William  Wyndeshore  clerks,  John 
Gildesburgh  and  the  said  Thomas,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  and  by 
virtue  of  that  grant  the  said  Thomas  attorned  tenant  to  them. 
Witnes.ses  {as  above).     Dated  New  Sarum,  G  March  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  11  March. 

Writing  of  Walter  de  Pavely  knight,  William  Steel,  William 
Wyndeshore  clerk  and  John  Gildesburgh,  being  a  ([uitclaim  to  Thomas 
Hungerford,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Mildenhale  by 
Marlebergh  co.  Wiltesir,  the  knights'  fees,  the  advowson  of  Mildenhale 
church,  the  reversion  of  the  said  manor  etc.,  which  reversion  etc. 
(as  the  last).  Witnesses  {as  above).  Dated  New  Sarum,  8  March 
45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  11  March. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  warranty  contained  in  the  foregoing 
charter  and  w  riting  of  Sir  Walter  de  Pavely,  in  case  Thomas  Hungerford 
and  his  heirs  shall  be  impleaded  concerning  the  manor  of  Mildenhale, 
shall  vouch  to  warranty  the  said  Walter  or  his  [heirs],  and  they  be  not 
able  to  defend  the  said  manor  and  the  ai)i)urtenances  thereof,  nor 
by  the  law  to  maintain  the  estate  of  the  said  Thomas  therein  to  him 
and  his  heirs,  the  said  Thomas  or  his  heirs  doing  their  utmost  in  such 
plea,  so  that  after  determination  thereof  and  judgment  rendered  they 
shall  have  cause  to  sue  for  execution  against  the  said  Walter  or  his 
heirs  to  the  value  thereof,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Walter  or  his 
heirs  shall  at  New  Sarum  one  year  after  such  judgment  rendered  pay 
the  said  Thomas  or  liis  heirs  100/.,  whereupon  they  shall  lose  execution 
as  aforesaid,  and  the  said  warranty  shall  be  for  ever  annulled. 
Witnesses  {as  above).  Dated  New  Sarum,  11  March  45  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  13  March. 

March  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Essex.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Philip  de 
Westminster.  Melreth  clerk,  to  stay  the  exigents  against  him  and  the  taking  of 
his  body  by  mainprise  of  Roger  PJalemayns  of  Kent,  John  West- 
wycombe  of  Hertfordshire,  Thomas  del  Chambre  of  London  and 
Richard  Longe  of  Kent,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the 
Bench  the  day  a  writ  de  judicio  against  him  at  the  suit  of  Alice  de 
Neirford  dame  de  Neville  is  returnable  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  the 
said  Alice  is  impleading  him  to  render  her  76/.  13s.  4o?.,  and  that  by  the 
said  writ  he  is  put  in  exigents  in  that  county  to  be  outlawed  for  that 
he  came  not  before  the  said  justices  to  answer  her,  and  that  he  is  ready 
to  answer  her,  and  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Roger 
and  the  others  have  mainperned  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  the 
sum  named  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  at  that  day. 


2S2 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  38(/ — cont. 

March  14.        Nieliolas  de  Styuecle  to  William  Abbot  of  Kellcseye.    Recognisance 
VVostniiuster.  for  80/.  payable  by  instalments  ;    to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Huntingdonshire. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  u[)on  condition  that  the  said  Nich(jlas 
pay  20  marks  at  either  of  the  three  terms  of  payment. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


Indenture  witnessing  that,  whereas  Robert  Tuylet  lias  by  indenture 
cnfeoiVed  his  sister  Alice  wife  of  Richard  Salyng  to  her  and  her  heirs  of 
all  his  lands  and  tenements  in  Cauntebrigge,  rendering  to  him  40s.  a 
year  for  his  life  and  after  his  decease  10/.  to  the  heirs  of  his  body,  and 
whereas  the  said  Richard  has  delivered  to  him  10/.,  which  sum  he  is 
to  repay  at  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next  in  Cristeschurche  London, 
the  said  Robert  grants  that  in  default  of  such  })ayment  the  said  lands 
and  tenements  shall  reiuain  to  the  said  Richard  and  Alice  and  to  their 
heirs  for  ever  quit  of  all  rents,  charges  and  demands,  and  if  the  said 
Robert  shall  pay  that  sum  as  aforesaid  the  estate  of  the  said  Alice 
shall  remain  charged  as  by  the  former  indentures  of  lea.se,  this 
indenture  notwithstanding.  Dated  London,  Thursday  before  the 
Annunciation  45   Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  Robert  Tuylet  and  Richard 
Salyngge,  21  March. 

March  7.         To  John  Froille  escheator  in  Berkshire  and  Wiltesir.     Order  not 

Westminster,  to  distrain  John  la  Warre  knight,  son  and  heir  of  Roger  la  Warre  knight 

tenant  in  chief,  to  do  homage  and  fealty  to  the  king,  but  to  suffer 

him  to  be  thereof  quit,   releasing  any  distress  made  for  that  cause  ; 

as  he  has  done  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [28661.] 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

William  de  Chorley  escheator  in  Lancashire. 

Simon  Warde  escheator  in  Northamptonshire. 

John  de  Bisshopeston  escheator  in  Sussex. 

WilUam  Auncel  escheator  in   Herefordshire   and   the  march   of 

Wales  adjacent. 
William  Cheyne  escheator  in  Somerset. 
William  Banastre  escheator  in  Salop. 


Membrane  31d. 

Feb.  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk.     Order  to  stay  the  taking  of  the  body 

Westminster,  of  William  Halman  by  the  mainprise  of  John  de  Foxle  of  Norwich, 
John  Pagrave,  William  Thurtoun  and  John  Methewold  of  Norffolk, 
bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  three  weeks  after 
Easter  next ;  as  Philippa  Beauchaump  impleaded  the  said  William 
Halman  before  the  said  justices  concerning  an  alleged  trespass,  and 
for  that  the  sheriff  returned  before  the  said  justices  that  the  defendant 
was  not  found  and  had  nought  in  that  bailiwick  whereby  he  might 
be  attached,  the  king  by  writ  de  jndicio  ordered  the  sheriff  to  take  him 
so  as  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  at  Westminster  on  the  day 
above  named  to  answer  her  thereupon  ;  and  he  has  prayed  the  king 
for  a  stay,  as  he  is  ready  so  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ; 
and  the  said  John  and  the  others  have  mainperned  in  chancery  under 
a  pain  of  40/.  to  have  the  said  defendant  there  at  that  day. 


45  EDWARD  III. 


283 


1371. 

March  22. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  37rf — cont. 


March  12. 
Westminster. 


To  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John 
Tibald  '  bocher,'  to  stay  the  further  pubhcation  of  the  exigents  against 
him  and  the  taking  of  his  body  by  mainprise  of  Ricliard  IJtyll,  John 
Waterville,  Ricliard  Holborn  and  Hugh  Tanner  of  London,  bringing 
this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  at  the  octaves  of  Trinity 
ne.xt,  when  the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable  ;  as  his  petition  shews 
that  John  Noble  of  Winchester  is  impleading  liim  for  a  debt  of  405., 
that  without  his  knowledge  as  he  avers  he  is  put  'in  exigents  to  be 
outlawed  in  that  county  for  that  he  came  not  before  the  said  justices 
to  answer  the  said  plaintiff,  and  that  he  is  ready  so  to  answer  and 
stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Richard  and  the  others, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  for  the  said 
defendant  under  a  pain  of  40  marks  to  have  him  before  the  said 
justices  at  that  day. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Suffolk.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  William 
Potter,  to  stay  the  further  publication  of  the  exigents  against  him  and 
the  taking  of  his  body  by  mainprise  of  John  Ippegrave,  Roger  Bourn 
and  John  Wysebeche  of  London,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices 
of  the  Bench  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable  ;  as  his  petition 
shews  that  Hugh  Walle  and  John  Holt  are  impleading  him  before  the 
said  justices  for  an  alleged  trespass,  that  by  process  thereupon  made 
he  is  put  in  exigents  to  be  outlawed  in  Suffolk  for  that  he  came  not 
before  them  to  answer  the  plaintiffs,  and  that  he  is  ready  so  to  answer 
and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Jolm  Ippegrave  and 
the  others  have  mainperned  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  40/.  to  have 
the  defendant  before  the  said  justices  at  the  day  above  named. 


March  29.        Roger  de  Clifford  lord  of  Westmorland  to  Ralph  Spigurnell  knight 
Westminster,  and  John  de  Bisshopeston  clerk.     Recognisance  for  500/.,  to  be  levied, 
in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Westmorland. 
Cancelled  o?i  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  John. 

Indenture  made  31  March  45  Edward  III,  between  Sir  Ralph  Spigurnell 
knight  and  John  de  Bischepton  clerk  executors  of  the  earl  of  la  Marche 
of  the  one  part  and  Sir  Roger  de  Clifford  lord  of  Westmorland  of  the 
other  part,  being  a  lease  A\ith  warranty  from  20  May  next  to 
St.  Mark's  day  following  and  thenceforward  for  two  years,  at  the 
expiration  whereof  Sir  Ralph  will  be  of  age,  of  the  wardship  of  the 
lands,  rents  and  services  which  they  the  said  executors  have  in  ward 
by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  Sir  Ralph  de  Graystok  son  and  heir  of  Sir 
WiUiam  late  baron  of  Graystok,  saving  to  them  all  manner  of  reversions 
of  lands,  rents,  servdces  and  lordships  which  shall  fall  in  before  the  full  age 
of  the  said  Ralph,  rendering  to  them  240/.  a  year  at  the  Assumption  and 
the  Purification  by  even  portions  ;  with  covenants  for  defeasance  of 
the  foregoing  recognisance  made  to  secure  the  payment  of  the  aforesaid 
rent,  upon  condition  that  Sir  Roger  shall  duly  pay  the  same  in  the 
church  of  St.  Paul  London  at  the  terms  aforesaid,  that  the  said 
executors  shall  have  and  enjoy  without  disturbance  of  Sir  Roger,  his 
executors  and  assigns  or  any  on  his  behalf,  any  reversions  falling 
in  as  aforesaid  during  the  said  Ralph's  nonage,  and  if  any  having  an 
annuity  or  other  charge  for  life  or  years  upon  tlie  tenements  hereby 
leased  shall  die  during  the  said  Ralph's  nonage,  that  the  lessee  \\ill 
pay  the  lessors  the  amount  of  such  charge  over  and  above  the  said 


284 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371. 


Membrane  'Sid — conf. 


farm,  and  will  make  no  waste  or  destruction  in  the  premises  whereby 
the  lessors  shall  lose  their  farm  or  the  farmers  be  thrust  out  of  the 
premises  ;  also  covenants  by  the  lessee  that  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the 
lessors  to  enter  again  and  hold  the  premises  in  their  former  estate 
in  default  of  payment  of  the  said  rent,  and  by  the  lessors  that  the 
yearly  farm  reserved  under  a  lease  of  Graystok  '  parke  '  and  of  80  kine 
by  them  granted  to  William  de  Latoun  and  others  shall  be  paid  to  Sir 
Roger,  his  assigns  and  their  executors,  until  the  full  age  of  the  said 
Ralph,  that  the  lessors  will  by  process  of  law  enforce  the  covenants 
made  by  the  said  William  and  others,  and  that  if  the  said  Ralph  die 
within  the  term  aforesaid,  and  the  said  lessee  shall  pay  the  rent  and 
keep  the  covenants  hereinbefore  contained  until  his  death,  the  said 
recognisance  shall  be  void.     Dated  London  as  above.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Roger  and  John  dc 
Bischepton,  29  March. 

March  30.        John  de  Donyngton  and  William  Olyver  skinners  of  London  to 

Westminster.  John  de  Wythornwyk  clerk.     Recognisance  for  36/.,  to  be  levied,  in 

default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  John  de 

Donyngton  and  William  or  one  of  them  shall  pay  18/.  at  the  day  named. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

March  30.        John  de  Donyngton  and  W^illiam  Olj'ver  skinners  of  London  to  John 
Westminster,  de  W^ythornwyk  clerk.     Recognisance  for   16/.,   to   be  levied  etc.  in 
the  city  of  London. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  John  de 
Donyngton  and  William  or  one  of  them  pay  8/.  9s. 
Cancelled  on  'payment. 

Membrane  36(Z. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Maundevyle  knight  the  younger,  being  a  bond 
to  William  de  Ryngeborn  in  400  marks  received  as  a  loan,  payable  at 
W^inchester  at  Michaelmas  next.  Dated  Westminster,  8  March 
45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  before  the  chancellor  at  London, 
11  March. 

Writing  of  William  de  Ryngeborn,  being  a  defeasance  of  the  foregoing 
bond,  upon  condition  that  Thomas  de  Maundevyle  knight  the  younger 
and  Anne  his  wife  shall  be  ready  to  levy,  and  within  one  quarter  of  a  year 
after  the  said  Anne  shall  come  to  her  full  age  shall  upon  reasonable  warn- 
ing of  the  said  W  illiam  or  of  another  in  his  name  levy  a  fine  of  the  manor 
of  Affeton  and  la  Lee  in  the  Lsle  of  Wight  to  John  Kyng  rector  of 
Fresshewater,  James  Lacy,  John  Blont  rector  of  Aulton  Berners 
and  John  Wykyng  at  their  cost,  thereby  acknowledging  the  said  manor 
to  be  the  right  of  the  said  James,  for  themselves  and  the  said  Anne's 
heirs  releasing  the  same,  and  binding  themselves  and  the  said  Anne's 
heirs  to  warranty  thereof  to  the  said  John,  James,  John  and  John 
and  to  the  heirs  of  the  said  James,  and  in  case  before  that  time  the  said 
James  be  dead  to  the  said  John,  John  and  John  and  the  heirs  of  the 
said  John  Blont,  and  in  case  he  be  dead  to  the  said  John  Kyng  and 
John  Wykyng  and  the  heirs  of  one  them,  or  else  that  before  the  said 
term  the  said  Thomas  shall  acquire  lands  in  Essex  to  the  true  value 


45  EDWARD  III.  285 


1371.  Memhranr  36^/ — cont. 

of  the  said  manor  aixd  sliall  tlicrcof  enfeoff  the  said  John,  James,  John 
and  John  and  the  heirs  of  the  said  James,  so  that  tliey  shall  again 
enfeoff  the  said  Thomas  and  Anne  and  their  heirs  of  the  aforesaid  manor, 
wherehy  exchanges  may  and  shall  after  be  made  of  the  said  manor  and 
the  lands  in  Essex  so  to  be  purchased  in  the  form  of  the  fine  above 
recited.     Dated  Westminster,  \)  March  45   Edwaid  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  before  the  chancellor 
at  London,  11  March. 

Writing  of  William  Ryngebourne  of  the  county  of  Suthampton, 
being  a  bond  to  Thomas  de  Maundevyle  the  younger  knight  in 
400  marks  by  reason  of  a  loan,  to  be  paid  at  Falkebourne  co.  Essex 
at  Michaelmas  next.     Dated  Stapelford  Tany,  12  March  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandtim  of  acknowledgment  before  the  chancellor,  12  March. 

Writing  indented  of  Thomas  Maundevyle  the  younger  knight  of 
Essex,  being  a  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  bond  upon  condition  that 
William  Ryngebourne  of  the  county  of  Suthampton  shall  within 
a  month  of  Easter  next  pay  him  100  marks  in  the  church  of  St.  Paul 
London,  and  240  marlcs  on  the  second  day  after  that  he  the  said 
Thomas  by  himself  and  Anne  his  wife  shall  fulfil  certain  covenants 
contained  in  an  indenture  made  between  the  said  Thomas  and  William 
concerning  the  manor  of  Affeton  and  la  Lee  and  levying  a  fine  thereof. 
Dated  London,  13  March  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  before  the 
chancellor  at  London,  13  March. 

March  17.        Thomas  de  Staunton  and  Ralph  his  brother  to  W^illiam  Gamboun. 
Westminster.  Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  300^.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Notynghamshire. 

March  13.        Ralph   de   Crombewell  knight   to   Helmyng   Leget.      Recognisance 
Westminster,  for    2,000    marks    payable    by   instalments ;     to    be    levied   etc.   in 
Notynghamshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

W^riting  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  de  Overton  and  daughter 
of  Sir  William  BrujTi  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to 
Sir  Robert  de  Marny  knight,  Dame  Alice  his  wife  mother  of  the  said 
Joan,  Ingelram  and  Richard  brothers  of  the  said  Joan,  and  the  heirs 
and  assigns  of  the  said  Ingelram  and  Richard,  of  the  manors  of 
Southwokyndon  co.  Essex,  Bekynham  co.  Kent,  Rounore  and 
Migham  co.  Suthampton  and  Randolveston  co.  Dorset,  now  held  by  the 
said  Sir  Robert  and  Alice.  Witnesses  :  William  Essex,  John  Sely, 
John  Maryns,  John  Gravele,  John  Essex,  Robert  de  Bourton  parson 
of  Southwokyndon,  John  de  Shropham  chaplain,  William  Mepeshale, 
PhiUp  atte  Bregge.     Dated  London,  20  March  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  London, 
1  April. 

Writing  of  Stephen  atte  Forde,  called  Soudan  '  boucher  '  citizen  of 
London,  giving  with  warranty  to  John  Alston  of  Kentisshtoun  co. 
Middlesex  and  John  de  Suthcote,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  4Z.  of  yearly 
free  and  quit  rent  to  be  taken  at  the  four  usual  terms  of  the  year  by 


286  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371.  Memhrane  36rf — conl. 

even  portions,  namely  20^.  at  every  term,  the  first  payment  to  be 
at  Eastor  next,  of  all  his  tenement  and  appurtenances  in  the  parish 
of  St.  Nicholas  at  the  Shambles  London  which  was  of  John  Manypany 
sometime  citizen  and  butcher  of  London,  and  of  all  his  tenement  and 
aj)purtenances  in  the  town  of  Maydenhethe  co.  Bukkingham  sometime 
of  the  said  John  Manypany,  with  power  to  distrain  therein  for  arrears 
and  in  every  parcel  thereof  ;  and  in  name  of  seisin  the  said  Stephen 
has  attorned  to  them  by  payment  of  12c/.  in  part  of  the  first  term. 
Witnesses  :  Walter  atte  Grene,  Richard  Stoneham,  John  Thurkilde, 
Henry  Asshelyn,  William  Boyvile  clerk.  Dated  London,  30  March 
45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  London,  2  April. 

Membrane  35d. 

Feb.  28.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Nicholas  Bonde, 

Westminster,  to  stay  altogether  making  distress  upon  the  castle  and  manor  of 
Lillyngston,  releasing  any  distress  thereupon  made,  the  proclamation 
that  all  and  singular  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition  having  lands 
in  Kent  and  not  dwelling  therein  should  under  pain  of  forfeiture 
draw  thither  with  all  speed  notwithstanding  ;  as  liis  petition  shews 
that  John  Poyntz  knight  by  his  writing  demised  to  farm  the  said 
castle  and  manor  and  all  his  lands  in  Kent  to  the  said  Nicholas  for  a 
term  of  years,  and  that  he  the  said  Nicholas  is  continually  dwelling 
in  Kent  with  all  his  household  upon  the  safe  guard  of  the  said  castle 
and  manor,  and  other  his  own  lands  there  and  of  the  sea  coast,  but 
that  the  sheriff  by  colour  of  the  said  proclamation,  which  the  king 
lately  ordered  him  to  make,  has  made  and  is  making  grievous  distresses 
upon  the  goods  and  chattels  of  the  said  Nicholas  in  the  castle  and  manor 
aforesaid,  pretending  that  the  same  are  in  the  said  Jolm's  hand,  as 
they  are  not,  wherefore  the  said  Nicholas  has  prayed  for  remedy. 

March  12.  To  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Wellowe  by  Grymesby.  Request  to 
Westminster,  grant  Thomas  do  Stayndrop  the  king's  clerk  such  a  pension  to  be  taken 
every  year  of  that  house  as  shall  befit  the  givers  and  should  bind  the 
receiver  to  them,  making  him  letters  patent  thereupon  under  the 
chapter  seal,  and  writing  again  by  the  bearer  what  they  will  do  at 
this  request ;  as  the  said  abbot  by  reason  of  his  new  creation  is  bound 
in  such  a  pension  to  one  of  the  king's  clerks  at  the  king's  nomination 
until  provision  be  made  him  by  the  abbot  of  a  suitable  benefice  ; 
and  the  king  has  nominated  the  said  Thomas,  whose  advancement  he 
has  at  heart.  By  p.s.  [28667.] 

March  27.  To  W.  archbishop  of  Canterbury.  Order  and  request,  as  he  loves 
Westminster,  the  king  and  his  honour  and  desires  the  safety  and  defence  of  the 
realm  and  church,  in  consideration  of  the  difficulty  of  the  business 
and  of  the  perils  likely  to  happen  for  lack  of  such  defence,  to  cause 
a  convocation  of  his  suffragans,  the  deans  and  priors  of  cathedral 
churches,  the  abbots,  priors  and  other  elective  persons,  exempt  and  not 
exempt,  the  archdeacons,  chapters,  convents  and  colleges  and  all  the 
clergy  of  every  diocese  of  that  province  to  appear  before  him  in 
the  church  of  St.  Paul  London  or  elsewhere  as  he  shall  think  fit  at  the 
earliest  possible  day,  to  lay  before  them  the  business  set  forth  in  the 
last  parliament  affecting  as  well  the  king  and  the  estate  of  the  realm 
as  the  needful  defence  of  the  same  and  the  charges  resting  upon  the 


45    EDWARD    III.  287 


1371.  Membrane  35rf — cont. 

king  by  reason  thereof,  and  to  urge  them  to  grant  a  competent  subsidy 
in  aid  of  such  charges,  doing  his  part  to  that  end,  and  certifying  the 
king  of  the  amount  of  such  subsidy  and  of  the  terms  of  payment ; 
as  the  archbishop  is  not  ignorant  of  the  business  and  tlie  charges  afore- 
said, which  the  king  is  not  able  to  bear  without  aid  of  liis  lieges,  wherefore 
in  the  said  parHament  he  craved  a  subsidy  of  the  archbishop  and 
others  of  liis  diocese  and  province  there  present. 

[Foedera.     Hep.  upon  the  Dignity  of  a  Peer,  iv.  p.  64!).] 

To  J.  archbisliop  of  York.  Like  order  and  request,  mutatis 
mutandis ;  as  the  archbishop  is  not  ignorant  of  the  buslnsss  and  charges 
laid  before  his  proctors  and  the  prelates  in  the  last  parliament. 

[Ibid.\ 

Memorandiim  that  on  Monday  24  Marcli  this  year  about  the  third 
hour,  in  a  privy  chamber  of  the  king  situate  upon  the  queen's  bridge 
by  the  river  Thames  called  the  '  Redechambre,'  in  presence  of  Tli. 
bishop  of  Exeter,  Richard  earl  of  Arundell,  Humphrey  earl  of  Hereford, 
Henry  Lcscrope  steward  of  the  king's  household,  Richard  Lescrope, 
Richard  de  Pembrigge  chamberlain  of  the  king's  household  and 
Helmyng  Leget  receiver  of  the  king's  chamber,  William  bishop  of 
Winchester  the  chancellor  delivered  up  the  great  seal  enclosed  in  a 
purse  of  leather  and  sealed  with  the  said  bishop's  seal,  which  seal 
the  king  took  from  him  as  aforesaid  ;  and  after  on  Wednesday  following 
the  king  made  Sir  Robert  de  Thorp  knight  chancellor,  and  in  the  said 
chamber  in  presence  of  William  bishop  of  Winchester,  S.  bishop  of 
London,  the  said  earls  of  Arundell  and  Hereford,  Henry  Lescrope, 
Richard  Lescrope,  Richard  de  Pembrugge  and  Helmyng  Leget  with 
his  own  hand  delivered  the  said  seal  to  the  said  Robert  ;  and  he 
thereupon  took  the  oath  and  received  the  said  seal,  and  on  Thursday 
following  in  the  great  hall  of  Westminster  where  the  court  (placea) 
of  chancery  is  held,  in  presence  of  the  said  bishop  of  Winchester  and 
of  the  clerks  of  chancery,  caused  the  said  purse  to  be  opened  and  the 
seal  to  be  drawn  out,  and  letters  patent  and  writs  to  be  sealed  there- 
with ;  and  after  the  said  chancellor,  being  about  to  depart  home 
to  his  own  parts  with  the  king's  licence,  on  Friday  following  in  a 
chamber  of  the  friars  preachers  of  London  called  the  '  parlour  '  situate 
by  their  church  left  the  said  seal  enclosed  in  the  said  purse  under  his 
seal  in  the  custody  of  Walter  Power,  William  de  Burstall,  William 
de  Mirfeld  and  Nicholas  de  Spaigne  clerks  of  the  chancery  to  be  kept 
until  his  return  to  London,  bidding  them  on  the  king's  behalf  upon 
the  oath  by  them  made  to  the  king  faithfully  to  do  and  fulfil  those 
things  which  pertain  to  the  keepers  of  the  seal  ;  and  they  received  the 
said  seal,  and  on  Saturday  following  before  noon  in  another  chamber 
of  the  said  friars  called  the  '  Counseil  house  '  beside  the  lower  cloister 
caused  the  purse  to  be  opened  and  writs  of  course  to  be  there  sealed. 

[Foedera.] 

Memorandum  that  on  Friday  28  March  this  year  at  Westminster 
in  a  chamber  of  the  king  near  the  river  Thames,  in  presence  of 
Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford,  Robert  de  Thorp  chancellor, 
Richard  Lescrope  treasurer,  Richard  de  Pembrugge  chamberlain, 
Helmyng  Leget  receiver  of  the  king's  chamber,  William  de  Burstall 
keeper  of  the  rolls  of  chancery  and  many  others,  William  bishop  of 
Winchester  late  chancellor  delivered  to  the  king  two  great  seals  and 


288 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLvS. 


l:i71. 


Membrane  35rf — cont. 


two  j)rivy  seals  wliicli  wore  lately  in  the  king's  use  and  remained  in  the 
custody  of  the  said  bisiiop  by  his  commission,  the  inscriptions  where- 
upon are  as  follows,  namely  upon  one  of  the  great  seals  '  Edwardus 
dei  gratia  Hex  Francie  et  Anglie  et  Dominus  Hibernie,'  upon  the  other 
'  Edwardus  dei  gratia  Rex  Anglie  Dominus  Hibernie  et  Aquitanie,'  upon 
one  of  the  privy  seals  '  Secreturn  Edwurdi  Regis  Francie  et  Anglie 
et  Domini  Hibernie,''  upon  the  other  '  Secretum  Edwardi  Regis  Anglie 
domini  Hibernie  et  Aquitanie  '  ;  and  the  king  caused  the  two  great 
seals  to  be  enclosed  in  two  purses  of  leather  under  seals  of  white  wax, 
and  the  two  privy  seals  in  two  linen  napkins  {panniclis)  under  seals  of 
red  wax,  sealed  with  the  king's  signet  and  the  said  bishop's  seal,  and 
the  four  seals  so  enclosed  he  delivered  to  the  said  treasurer  to  be  kept 
in  the  treasury. 
[Ibid.] 

March  28.        John  prior  of  Sandwell,  for  liimself  and  the  convent,   to  Ralph 
Westminster.  Basset.     Recognisance  for  300^.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Staffordshire. 


March  31. 


To  the  sheriff  of  Leycester.  Order  to  stay  altogether  the  execution 
of  the  king's  late  writ,  issued  at  the  prayer  of  Theobald  Blakwyn  of 
Sudeby  \\  ho  averred  that  they  threatened  him  with  death  and  loss  of 
limbs,  ordering  the  sheriff"  to  compel  Henry  Summard,  John  and  Hugh  his 
sons  to  find  a  mainprise,  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriff  laid  upon 
them,  that  they  should  not  do  nor  procure  any  damage  or  hurt  to 
the  said  Theobald  in  his  person,  and  if  they  should  refuse  so  to  do, 
to  commit  them  to  the  nearest  gaol  there  to  be  kept  in  custody  until 
they  would  willingly  do  it  ;  as  Master  Richard  de  Outeby  parson  of 
Thodenham,  John  de  Leycestre  of  London  and  Simon  Frankelayn 
of  London,  appearing  personally  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  for 
them  as  aforesaid  under  a  pain  of  40/. 

Writing  of  John  Bays  of  Yevele  co.  Somerset,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Robert  Cheddre,  Henry  Forde,  John  parson  of 
Bakwell,  Ralph  Damesele,  Ralph  Waleys  and  Walter  Lauerens,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Tornok  co.  Somerset  and  all  lands 
in  Baggeworth  and  Alleston.  Dated  Monday  after  All  Saints 
44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  London,  2  April  this  year. 


Membrane  S4:d. 

March  29.  To  the  sheriff  of  Warrewyk.  Order  to  cause  William  Bretoun  and 
Westminster.  John  de  Peyto,  knights  of  the  shire  at  the  parliament  summoned  at 
Westminster  on  Monday  in  the  first  week  of  Lent,  namely  the  feast  of 
St.  Matthias  last,  to  have  of  the  commons  of  the  county  16/.  85.  for 
their  expenses  in  coming  to  the  said  parliament,  there  abiding  and 
thence  returning,  namely  for  41  days  at  45.  a  day  each. 
The  following  have  the  like  writs  : 

Leycestershire.     William  Flaunnville  and  Thomas  Walssh  16/.  85. 

for  41  days. 
Oxfordshire.     Roger    de    Elinerugge    and    Roger    de    Cotesford 

15/.  12s.  for  39  days. 
Berkshire.     John  de  Foxle  and  Thomas  de  Kyngeston  15/.  12s.  for 
39  days. 


45  EDWARD  III.  289 


1371.  Membrane  34c? — cont. 

Essex.     Robert    le    Marny    and    Robert   de   Teye    15/.    12.9.    for 

39  days. 
Hertfordshire.     Thomas  de  Fitlyng  and  Edward  Fitz   Symond 

14/.  16s.  for  37  days. 
Worcestersliire.     Richard    Fyton    and   John    Aleyn    16/.   85.   for 

41  days. 
Bedfordsliire.     Thomas  de  Reynes  and  John  Ragoun  15/.  12.s.  for 

39  days. 
Bukinghamshire.     Fulk  de  Bermyngham  and  Roger  de  Puttenham 

15/.  12s.  for  39  days. 
Surrey.     Simon  de  Codyngton  and  William  de  Cobeham  14[/.]  16s. 

for  37  days. 
Sussex.     John  Waleys  and  John  de  Sancto  Claro  15/.   12$.  for 

39  days. 
Staffordshire.     John  de  Dray  cote  and  John  de  Perton  17/.  4-5.  for 

43  days. 
Middlesex.     John  Pekkebrugge  and  Nicholas  de  Exton  14/.  for 

35  days. 
Lincolnshire.     Robert  Haulay  and  John  Paynel  of  Queryngton 

17/.  4.S.  for  43  days. 
Roteland.     Lawrence  Hauberk  and  Nicholas  Grene  16/.  8s.  for 

41  days. 
Devon.     William    Bonevyle    and    Roger   Nywent    19/.    125.    for 

49  days. 
Herefordshire.     Thomas  Chaundos  and  John  Bromwych  17/.  4s. 

43  days. 
Westmorland.     Hugh  de  Louthre  and  John  de  Preston  19/.  12s. 

for  49  days. 
Yorkshire.     Robert  de  Rouclyf  and  Simon  de  Heselarton  18/.  16s. 

for  47  days. 
Gloucestershire.     John   Poyntz    and   Robert   Palet    16/.    85.    for 

41  days. 
Salop.     Robert    de    Kendale    and    Robert    Corbet    17/.    4s.    for 

43  days. 
The  county  of  Suthampton.     Bernard  Brocas  and  Philip  Popham 

15/.   12s.  for  39  days. 
Kent.     Thomas  Apuldrefeld  and  John  Barry  14/.  16s.  for  37  days. 
Notynghamshire.     Roger  Beler  and  Robert  de  Morton   17/.  45. 

for  43  days. 
Derbyshire.     Godfrey  Foljambe  and  John  Foucher  17/.  4s.  for 

43  days. 
Cumberland.     Robert  Culwenne  and  William  de  Stapilton  20/.  8s. 

for  51  days. 
Cambridgeshire.     John  Andreue  and  John  Chene   15/.    12s.   for 

39  days. 
Huntingdonshire.     William    Moigne    and    Nicholas    de    Styuecle 

15/.  12s.  for  39  days. 
Wiltesir.     Lawrence  de  Sancto  Martino  and  Thomas  de  la  Ryver 

16/.  8s.  for  41  days. 
Cornwall.     William  Brun  and  John  de  Trenewyth  20/.   8s.  for 

51  days. 
Norffolk.     Edmund  de  Thorp  and  Roger  de  Willesham  16/.  8s. 

for  41  days. 

CR   19 


290  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  34(/ — cont. 

Suffolk.     John  de  Argcntein  and   Roger  de  Boys   16^   85.    for 

41  days. 
Norhamptonshire.     William  de  Quenton  and  Thomas  de  Preston 

15/.  125.  for  39  days. 
Somerset.     John  Beauchamp  of  LiUesdon  8/.   12s.  for  43  days. 
Dorset.     John  Hamely  and  Walter  Perle   17/.  4s.  for  43  days. 
Lancashire.     John  de  Ipres  and  Richard  de  Tounley  19/.  12s.  for 

49  days. 
Northumberland.     William  Heroun  and  Alan  de  Heton  20/.  85. 

for  51  days. 
[Prynne.     Parliamentary   Writs,  iv.   f.  283.] 

March  29.        To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Leycestre.     Like  order  to  cause  William 
Westminster.  Taillard  and  Richard  de  Knyghton,  burgesses  at  the  said  parUament, 
to  have  of  the  commonalty  of  the  town  8/.  45.  for  their  expenses  for 
41  days,  taking  either  of  them  25.  a  day. 
The  following  have  the  like  writs  : 

Warrewyk.     Thomas    Pavy    and    William     Lyndraper   burgesses 

8/.  45.  for  41  days. 
Oxford,     WiUiam  Coteshale  and  John  de  Stodle  burgesses  11.  I65. 
for  39  days. 

Membrane  33c/. 

Walyngford.     John    James    and    Richard    atte    Feld    burgesses 

11.  I65.  for  39  days. 
Worcester.     John  Croule  and  John  Goldsmyth  citizens  8/.  45. 

for  41  days. 
Bedeford.     Richard   Frereman   and   William   Brasiere   burgesses 

11.  I65.  for  39  days. 
Guldeford.     Peter  Semere  and  Walter  Wodelond  burgesses  11.  85. 

for  37  days. 
Newcastle  under  Lyme.     Roger  Letys  and  Richard  Lavendene 

burgesses  8/.  12s.  for  43  days. 
Hereford.     Henry  Cachepole  and  William  Collyng  citizens  8/.  12s. 

for  43  days. 
Gloucester.     William  Heyberare  and  John  de  Compton  burgesses 

8/.  4s.  for  41  days. 
Bruggenorth.     Nicholas  Palmere  and  Nicholas  Fililode  burgesses 

8/.  12s.  for  43  days. 
Rochester.       John    Fynchyngfeld     and     Richard     Bromyngfeld 

citizens  11.  85.  for  37  days. 
Notyngham.     Roger  de  Hulme  and  Henry  de  Brademere  burgesses 

8/.  125.  for  43  days. 
Donhevedburgh.     Ralph  Trevysa  and  John  Tremaen  burgesses 

10/.  4s.  for  51  days. 
Lostwythiel.     Richard  Carsur  and  John  de  Nanscawe  burgesses 

10/.  4s.  for  51  days. 
Kyngeston  upon  Hull.     Peter  de  Grymesby  and  Walter  Frost 

burgesses  9/.  85.  for  47  days. 
Briggew^ater.     Adam  Best  and  William  Taimere  burgesses  8/.  4s. 

for  41  days. 
Newcastle  upon  Tyne.     Richard  Dacton  and  Robert  de  Angerton 

burgesses  10/.  4s.  for  51  days. 
[Ihid,  p.  286.] 


45  EDWARD  III.  291 


1371.  Membrane  33d — cont. 

April  14.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Henry  Noble 
Westminster,  of  Berkynge  '  tannere  '  and  Margery  his  wife,  to  stay  the  further  publica- 
tion of  the  exigents  against  them  and  the  taking  of  their  bodies  by  main- 
prise of  William  de  Preston,  William  de  Norwych  and  William  Palmer  of 
London,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  the  day  the 
writ  of  exigents  is  returnable  ;  as  their  petition  shews  that  Richard 
Vyncent  of  London  '  cordewaner '  and  Agnes  his  wife  are  impleading  them 
before  the  said  justices  to  render  them  chattels  to  the  value  of  10  marks, 
that  they  are  put  in  exigents  in  the  busting  of  London  to  be  outlawed 
for  that  they  came  not  before  the  said  justices  to  answer  the  plaintifiFs, 
and  that  they  are  ready  to  answer  them  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ; 
and  tlie  said  \\'illiam,  William  and  William,  appearing  in  person  in 
chancery,  have  mainperned  for  them  under  a  pain  of  20^.  to  have  them 
before  the  said  justices  on  the  day  aforesaid. 

April  24.         John  Dovy  citizen  of  London  to  Ellen  Bertram  lady  of  Bothale. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  100  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of 
his  lands  and  chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon  condition 
that  Katherine  wife  of  John  Dovy,  if  she  survive  him,  shall  recover 
no  dower  against  Ellen  Bertram  lady  of  Bothale,  her  heirs  or  assigns, 
of  the  tenements  in  the  city  of  London  and  parish  of  St.  Margaret 
Patinz  which  she  the  said  Ellen  has  by  the  said  John's  charter  of 
feoffment,  or  that  in  case  such  dower  be  recovered,  she  the  said  Ellen 
her  heirs  or  assigns,  shall  by  force  of  the  warranty  in  the  said  charter 
contained  recover  against  the  said  John's  heirs  other  tenements  to  the 
same  value.     Dated  London,  24  April  45  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Ellen  at  Westminster, 
24  April. 

Membrane  32d. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  a  yearly  rent  of  41.  given  by  writing  of 
Stephen  atte  Forde  called  Soudan  '  boucher  '  citizen  of  London  to  John 
Alston  of  Kentisshtoun  co.  Middlesex  and  John  de  Suthcote,  to  be 
taken  of  a  tenement  which  the  said  Stephen  has  in  the  parish  of 
St.  Nicholas  at  the  Shambles  London  and  of  his  tenement  in  the  town 
of  Maydenhethe,  upon  condition  that  he^  his  heirs  or  executors  or 
another  in  their  name  shall  pay  33/.  to  the  said  John  Alston  or  to  liis 
attorney  producing  this  indenture,  his  heirs,  executors  or  assigns, 
namely  2Qs.  on  Easter  eve  next,  20*.  on  Midsummer  eve  following, 
205.  on  Michaelmas  day,  205.  on  Christmas  eve,  and  so  from  year  to 
year  until  the  said  sum  be  fully  paid.  Dated  London,  1  April 
45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  John  Alston  at  London, 
18  AprU. 

Writing  of  John  Suthcote,  being  a  grant  and  quitclaim  to  John 
Alston,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  right  in  4/.  of  yearly  free  and  quit 
rent  to  them  given  by  writing  of  Stephen  atte  Forde  called  Soudan 
of  London  '  boucher,'  to  be  taken  of  liis  tenements  in  the  parish  of 
St.  Nicholas  at  the  Shambles  London  and  in  the  town  of  Maydenhethe. 
Dated  9  April  45  Edward  III.     ■ 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  London,  18  April. 


292  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  32d—cont. 

Charter  of  William  Pymnie  of  Edelmeton,  granting  to  Adam 
Fraunceys  citizen  of  London  and  to  Adam  Fraunceys  the  younger  of 
London  all  the  lands,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  commons,  services 
of  tenants  etc.  in  the  town  and  parish  of  Kdelmeton  co.  Middlesex 
which  John  Claveryng  of  Edelmeton  and  he  the  said  William  lately 
had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  William  \'ikere  of  Edelmeton,  to  hold 
to  the  said  Adam  and  Adam  and  to  the  heirs  of  the  body  of  the  said 
Adam  the  younger,  with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  Maud 
daughter  of  the  said  Adam  citizen  of  London  and  to  the  heirs  of  her 
body,  remainder  to  the  right  heirs  of  the  said  Adam  citizen  of  London. 
Witnesses  :  John  Wroth  the  younger,  Jordan  de  Elsyng,  John 
Goldvng,  Peter  Rowe,  Richard  Smyth.  Dated  Edelmeton,  17  March 
45  Edward  IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Westminster,  18  April. 

Writing  of  William  Viker,  son  and  heir  of  William  Viker  of 
Edelmeton,  being  a  grant  and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Adam 
Fraunceys  citizen  of  London  and  Adam  Fraunceys  the  younger  of 
London  and  to  the  heirs  of  the  body  of  the  said  Adam  the  younger, 
with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  Maud  daughter  of  the  said 
Adam  citizen  of  London  and  the  heirs  of  her  body,  remainder  to  the 
right  heirs  of  the  said  Adam  citizen  of  London,  of  lands  etc.  in  the 
toMn  and  parish  of  Edelmeton  co.  Middlesex,  which  William  Pymme 
of  Edelmeton  and  John  Clav^eryng  of  Edelmeton  lately  had  by  gift  and 
feoffment  of  William  Viker  his  father,  and  thereof  the  said  William 
Pymme  by  charter  enfeoffed  the  said  Adam  and  Adam  with  remainders 
as  aforesaid.     Dated  London,  19  March  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Westminster,  18  April. 

April  13.         Memorandum  of  a  mainprise,  made  before  the  chancellor  in  the 

Westminster,  manse  of  the  friars  preachers  London  by  Francis  Bache  and  John 

Salman  under  a  pain  of  100^.,  to  have  the  body  of  Peter  Grotoft  in 

chancery  before   the   chancellor  from  day  to  day  until  by  judgment 

of  the  court  he  be  delivered. 

April  20.         Henry    de    Aldryngton    of    Berkshire    to    Alban    du    Fen    clerk. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  20^.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  Berkshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

April  18.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order  to  stay  altogether  the  further 
Westminster,  execution  of  the  king's  late  command  of  the  issues  of  liis  bailiwick 
to  cause  600  sheaves  of  arrows  to  be  made  and  purveyed  therein, 
and  cause  them  to  come  to  the  Tower  of  London  before  the  quinzaine 
of  Trinity  next,  there  to  be  delivered  to  John  de  Sleford  the  king's 
clerk  keeper  of  his  wardrobe  there  ;  as  with  the  assent  and  advice  of 
the  council  it  is  agreed  that  no  arrows  or  other  arms  be  taken  out  of  the 
county,  but  that  they  shall  remain  therein  for  defence  of  the  sea  coast 
and  of  the  shipping  there  against  attacks  of  the  king's  enemies. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  sheriff  of  Surrey  and  Sussex  concerning  1,000  sheaves. 

The  sheriff  of  Suthampton  concerning  600  sheaves. 

The  sheriff  of  Somerset  and  Dorset  concerning  1,000  sheaves. 


45    EDWARD    III.  293 


1871.  Membrane  326? — cont. 

April  10.  To  Nicholas  de  Audeley.  Order  to  deliver  to  Gilbert  Talbot,  whom 
Westminster,  with  the  said  Nicholas  and  other  lieges  the  king  lately  by  letters  patent 
appointed  guardians  of  the  peace  and  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer 
in  Herefordshire,  all  indictments,  records  and  processes,  rolls  and 
memoranda  affecting  that  office  which  are  in  his  custody  it  is  said, 
and  his  commission  aforesaid,  tliat  the  said  Gilbert  and  his  fellows  may 
proceed  further  to  the  execution  of  justice  according  to  the  law  and 
custom  of  the  realm  and  to  their  said  commission,  and  order  to  be 
intendent  upon  the  arraying  of  men  at  arms,  armed  men  and  others 
when  need  be  with  the  other  lieges  appointed  for  the  purpose  in  that 
ocimty  ;  as  the  king  has  for  the  present  discharged  him  of  the  aforesaid 
offices  of  guardian  and  justice,  purposing  to  appoint  him  to  execute 
other  and  higher  duties.  By  C. 

April  28.         Roger  de  Assheburnham  and  Richard  Halle  to  William  Steel  clerk 
Westminster,  and  Nicholas  de  Spaigne  clerk.     Joint  and  several  recognisance  for 
200/.  pa3'able  by  instalments  ;    to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of 
their  lands  and  cliattels  in  Sussex. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Nicholas. 

Membrane  31d. 

Writing  of  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  and  of  a  yearly 
rent  of  40/.  to  be  taken  of  all  their  lands  in  Sussex  by  Roger 
Asshbournhamme  and  Richard  de  Halle  granted  to  William  Steel 
and  Nicholas  Spayne  clerks,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Roger  and 
Richard  or  one  of  them  or  some  other  in  their  name  shall  in  the  church 
of  St.  Paul  London  pay  to  the  said  William  and  Nicholas  or  one  of  them 
or  to  their  executors  5G/.  I3s.  4d.  in  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next 
and  56/.  135.  4f/.  at  Whitsuntide  following.  Dated  Asshbournhamme, 
Monday  before  St.  Philip  and  St.  James  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  WilUam  Steel  and 
Nicholas,  29  April. 

May  1.  John  Gray  of  Ritherfeld  to  Thomas  de  Burgo.     Recognisance  for 

Westminster.  120/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Warwickshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  John  de  Byssheye  of  the  parish  of  Watford  co.  Hertford, 
being  a  general  release  to  William  Goodrych  rector  of  St.  Mildred  in 
Bredstrete  London  of  all  actions  real  and  personal.  Dated  London, 
1  May  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   2   May. 

Writing  of  John  de  Byssheye  of  the  parish  of  Watford,  being  a  general 
release  to  John  Shadworth,  Richard  Betele  and  Thomas  Trillowe 
chaplain,  executors  of  Thomas  son  of  John  de  Byssheye,  of  all 
actions  real  and  personal.     Dated  Westminster,  2  May  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum   of   acknowledgment,   2   May. 

Writing  of  John  Shadworth,  Richard  Betele  and  Thomas  Trillowe 
chaplain,   executors  of    Thomas  son   of  Jolin   de  Bj'ssheye,  being  a 


294 


CALENDAK    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371. 


Membrane  31d — cont. 


general  release  to  John  de  Byssheye  of  the  parish  of  Watford  of  all  actions 
real  and  personal.     Dated  {as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Richard  and  Thomas, 
2  May. 

Writing  of  Sir  William  Goodrych  rector  of  St.  Mildred  in  Bredestrete 
London,  being  a  general  release  to  John  de  Bissheye  of  the  parish  of 
Watford  of  all  actions  real  and  personal.  Dated  London,  1  May 
45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  May. 

May  3.  To  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Mary  York.     Order  to  take  again 

Westminster,  their  letters  patent  made  to  Richard  de  Sutton  the  king's  serjeant 
concerning  the  maintenance  which  he  had  in  the  said   abbey  at  the 
king's  command,  and  to  cause  Joan  de  Wyggemore  during  her  life 
^  fully  to  have  such  maintenance,  making  her  letters  patent  sealed  with 

the  common  seal  of  their  house  concerning  the  same,  and  writing  again 
by  the  bearer  what  they  will  do  at  this  request  ;  as  with  the  assent 
and  at  the  instance  of  the  said  Richard  the  king  of  his  favour  has 
granted  that  the  said  Joan  shall  henceforth  have  that  maintenance  for 
her  hfe.  By  p.s.  [28745.] 

Writing  of  John,  son  of  Richard  atte  Celer  citizen  of  London,  being 
a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  de  Swanbourne,  Agnes  his  wife 
and  William  his  son,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  third  part  of  a  tene- 
ment in  the  town  of  St.  Albans  sometime  of  John  Brokele,  which 
part  the  said  John  de  Swanbourne  lately. purchased  of  John  atte  Celer 
brother  of  the  said  John  son  of  Richard.  Witnesses  :  WiUiam 
Martyn,  Thomas  Hosteler,  John  Pykebon,  Alexander  Bysouthe, 
William  Kendale.  Dated  St.  Albans,  Tuesday  before  the  Ascension 
45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  19  May. 

May  21.         John    Stodeye    of  Westthorrok    to    William    de    Wauton    knight. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  100/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  Essex. 

May  21.  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Aspale  knight  to  Thomas  prior 

Westminster,  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Mary  w  ithout  Bisshopesgate  London.     Recog- 
nisance for  400  marks  payable  by  instalments ;  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Essex. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

May  21.  Thomas  prior  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Mary  without  Bisshopesgate 

Westminster.  London,  for  himself  and  the  convent,  to  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of 
John  de  Aspale  knight.     Recognisance  for  100  marks,  to  be  levied  etc. 
of  their  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Essex. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

May  18.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Walter 

Westminster.  Arnald  chaplain,  to  set  him  free  from  prison  by  mainprise  of  William 
Heyberer,  John  atte  Yate  and  WilUam  Langeford  of  Gloucestershire  ; 
as  his  petition  shews  that  lately  at  the  suit  of  Master  John  vicar  of 
Ledeneye,  averring  that  he  was  by  the  said  Walter  threatened  with 
death  and  loss  of  hmbs,  the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  cause  the  said 
Walter  to  come  before  them,  and  compel  him  to  find  security  under 


45    EDWAIU)    III.  2'J5 


1371.  Membrane  3ld — cont. 

a  pain  to  be  by  them  set  that  he  would  not  do  or  procure  any  hurt 
or  harm  to  the  said  John's  person,  and  if  he  should  refuse  so  to  do  to 
take  and  imprison  him  until  he  would  willingly  do  the  same,  and  that 
by  virtue  thereof  the  sheriffs  have  taken  him  and  are  keeping  him 
in  prison  ;  and  the  said  Wilham,  John  and  William  have  mainperncd 
for  him  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  40/.  that  he  shall  not  cause  hurt 
or  harm  as  aforesaid. 

May  29.  Aymer  de   Atholl   knight  to   Mary  de  Sancto   Paulo   countess  of 

Westminster.  Pembroke.     Recognisance  for  100  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  liis  lands  and  chattels  in  Northumberland. 

Membrane  SOd. 

Writing  of  John  Edmund  citizen  of  London,  being  a  grant  and  quit- 
claim to  brother  Robert  de  Draycote  prior  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Mary 
Elsingspitel  within  Crepulgate  London  and  the  convent  and  to  their 
successors  of  the  lands  and  rents  in  the  lane  and  jiarish  of 
St.  Lawrence  in  the  Old  Jewry  London  which  he  the  said  John  some- 
time had  by  grant  and  demise  of  John  de  Wyndesore  sometime  prior  of 
the  said  hospital  and  of  the  convent,  and  of  all  other  lands  and  rents  to 
the  said  hospital  belonging  which  he  had  by  grant  and  demise  of  any  prior 
or  of  the  convent  to  this  date  on  any  condition  or  by  any  writing  what- 
soever, and  further  as  well  of  any  chambers  whatsoever  in  the  said 
hospital  built  as  of  8/.  of  yearly  free  and  quit  rent  to  him  granted  for 
life  by  John  Gerard  late  prior  of  the  said  hospital  and  the  convent, 
which  rent  he  used  to  take  of  lands  in  the  city  of  London  to  the  said 
hospital  belonging  ;  also  a  general  release  of  all  actions,  suits,  plaints 
and  demands  real  or  personal  by  reason  of  trespass,  contract,  covenant, 
debt,  damage,  grievance  or  other  matter.  Dated  London, 
3  November  44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  21  March  this  year,  at 
Lavenham  co.  Suffolk  before  WilUam  de  Wychyngham,  by  virtue  of 
a  writ  of  dedimus  potestatem  which  is  on  the  file  for  this  year. 

Writing  of  Wilham  W^ynkefeld  knight  and  Joan  his  mfe,  who  was  wife 
of  EUis  Fraunceys  sometime  citizen  of  London,  being  a  grant  to  Robert 
de  Draycote  prior  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Mary  Elsyngspitle  within 
Crepulgate  London  and  the  convent  and  to  their  successors  of  all  the 
estate  of  them  the  said  William  and  Joan  or  one  of  them  in  the  tenement 
called  the  Brodegate  ^^ith  messuages,  shops,  cellars,  solars  etc.  situate 
in  the  parish  of  St.  Lawrence  in  the  Old  Jewry  London,  which  the  said 
Ellis  had  by  extent  of  two  statutes  merchant,  one  to  him  made  by 
Jolm  Edmund  sometime  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  the  other  by 
the  said  John  Edmund  made  to  John  Berland  the  younger  of  Essex. 
Dated  London,  29  January  44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  William,  21  March 
this  year  (as  the  last). 

Writing  of  Roger  Asshboumliame  and  Richard  de  Halle,  being 
a  grant  to  Sir  William  Steel  and  Sir  Nicholas  Spayne  clerks,  their  heirs 
and  assigns  and  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  their  assigns,  of  a  yearly  rent 
of  40Z.  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  all 
their  lands  in  Sussex,  ^ith  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  :  and  for  greater 
security  they  have  attorned  to  the  said  William  and  Nicholas  by  Id. 


296  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  Ziid — cont. 

Dated  Asshboumhamnie,  Tuesday  before  St.  Philip  and  St.  James 
45  Edward  IlL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
28  April. 

Indenture  made  between  William  Steel  and  Nicholas  Despayne 
clerks  of  the  one  part  and  Richard  do  Halle  of  the  other  part,  being 
a  lease  to  the  said  Richard  of  the  manor  of  Asshbournhamme  with 
woods,  meadows,  pastures,  wards,  marriages,  escheats,  rents  and 
services  of  free  tenants  and  neifs  etc.  for  tlie  lives  of  them  the  said 
William  and  Nicholas  and  one  year  longer,  rendering  to  John 
Asshbournhamme  20  marks  a  year  at  the  quinzaines  of  Easter, 
Midsummer  and  Michaelmas  and  at  the  Purification  by  even  portions, 
with  covenant  that  if  certain  lands  called  Kechenhamme  parcel  of  the 
said  manor,  which  are  in  the  hands  of  Robert  Eliot  of  Borham,  shall 
by  plea  or  accord  be  taken  or  derraigned  out  of  the  said  Robert's 
hands,  and  if  the  said  Richard  shall  have  livery  and  take  the  profit 
thereof  as  of  the  residue  of  the  manor,  he,  his  executors  and  assigns 
shall  render  and  pay  20/.  a  year  a.s  aforesaid,  and  that  the  said  Richard 
may  upon  the  soil  of  the  manor  set  up  a  house  and  an  oven  called 
'  tygelhous  '  and  '  tigelhost,'  and  may  thereupon  take  earth,  sand 
and  brushwood  sufficient  to  maintain  the  same  during  the  said  term, 
with  all  other  matters,  profits  and  advantages  to  them  granted  by 
indenture  of  the  said  Jolm  Asshbournhamme  and  Joan  his  wife.  Dated 
Asshbournhamme,  Monday  before  St.  PhiUp  and  St.  James 
45  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  28  April. 

May  3.  Ed\\ard    Seint    John    of    Wyghton    knight    to    Henry    de    Percy. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  80  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Yorkshire. 

April  28.  To  Alan  de  Heton,  William  de  la  Vale,  WiUiam  de  Stapelton  and 
Westminster.  Thomas  de  Sandford.  Order,  for  particular  causes  moving  the  king 
and  council,  not  to  take  those  who  shall  henceforward  be  indicted 
before  them,  though  they  have  taken  inquisitions  upon  the  matters 
hereinafter  rehearsed,  and  though  some  have  been  indicted 
before  them  or  by  inquisition  hereafter  taken  before  them  may  be 
indicted,  but  that  the  said  Alan  shall  keep  in  his  hands  until  further 
order  the  inquisitions  now  or  hereafter  taken  by  them^  and  that  they 
shall  certify  in  chancery  A^dthout  delay  the  tenor  of  such  inquisitions 
now  or  hereafter  taken,  so  that  the  king  may  further  do  as  ought 
to  be  done  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  England,  although 
lately  the  king  by  letters  patent  appointed  them,  three  and  two  of  them, 
by  true  men  of  the  liberty  of  Tyndale  to  make  inquisition  what  evil- 
doers and  breakers  of  the  peace  at  Faustane  in  Tyndale  slew  John 
Robbesson  of  Tyndale,  Adam  Robbesson  and  Thomas  Robbesson 
and  how  it  was  done,  who  by  deceit  took  Roger  del  Spence  the  king's 
liege  man  at  Charleton  in  Tyndale  and  delivered  him  to  the  king's 
enemies  of  Scotland,  and  they  took  him  with  them  to  Scotland  and  there 
detained  him  until  at  their  \vill  he  made  fine  with  the  Scots  for  his 
deUverance,  who  after  knowingly  harboured  the  said  evildoers,  and 
concerning  aD  articles  and  circumstances  affecting  those  felonies,  and 
to  take  and  keep  in  safe  custody  in  the  king's  gaol  of  Werk  in  Tyndale 
until  therefrom  dehvered  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  those 
parts  aU  who  should  be  indicted  before  them  touching  the  premises. 


45    EDWARD    Hi.  297 


1371.  Membrane  29rf. 

April  27.  To  the  sherifiF  of  Kent.  Order  to  warn  Tliomas  Apuldrcfokl  one  of 
Westminster,  the  knights  of  the  shire,  Echiiund  Hornc  one  of  the  eitizens  of  Canter- 
bury and  John  Fynehynfeld  one  of  tlie  citizens  of  Rochester  wJio  by  the 
king's  command  came  to  the  parhament  htst  hoklen  at  [Westminster] 
for  the  commons  of  the  .said  county  and  tlic  said  cities,  if  yet  hving, 
or  others ise  their  fellows  \\ ho  w ere  elected  with  them  so  to  do,  to  leave 
over  all  else  and  ceasing  every  excuse  to  be  in  person  at  Winchester 
in  the  octaves  of  Trinity  next  to  inform  the  king  and  council  touching 
the  manner  and  form  in  w  hich  answer  may  most  speedily  and  most 
conveniently  be  made  to  the  king  concerning  the  sura  of  50,000/. 
according  to  the  intent  of  the  grant  made  to  him  in  the  said  parliament, 
and  in  the  mean  time  to  make  in({uisition  concerning  tlie  number  of 
parish  churches,  chapels  and  prebends  in  the  county  as  well  in  the 
hands  of  secular  persons  as  of  men  of  religion,  and  certify  at  the  day 
and  place  aforesaid  the  names  thereof  and  of  the  said  knight  and 
citizens,    sending  again  this  writ  ;  as  [in  aid  of  the  expenses  \\hich] 

as  well  for  the  safety  and  defence  of  the  realm  and  the 

shipping  thereof  as  for  furtherance  of  the  war  with  France,  the  earls, 
barons,  lords  and  commons  of  the  realm  in  the  said  parliament 
[granted]  the  king  a  subsidy  of  22.s.  3d.  to  be  levied  and  taken  of  every 
parish  of  the  realm,  [every  parish  of  greater]  value  aiding  and 
contributing  rateably  to  another  of  less  value,  to  the  intent  that  the 
subsidy  should  amount  [to  the  sum  of  50,]000Z.  ;  and  after  deliberation 
had  by  the  king  and  council  touching  the  levy  thereof  [it  seems  to  the 
council  that]  22s.  .3d  levied  of  every  parish  does  not  [b}^]  much  amount 
to  the  said  sum,  and  it  is  feared  that  answer  may  not  be  made  for  that 
sum  at  the  said  terms  appointed  according  to  [the  intent]  of  the 
grant ;  and  the  king  \\illing  to  be  better  informed  touching  the 
declaration  of  intent  aforesaid  and  how  the  levy  may  most  speechly 
be  made,  and  considering  that  it  would  be  burdensome  for  all  the 
lords,  knights,  citizens  and  burgesses  who  at  his  command  came  to 
the  said  parliament  to  be  assembled  a  second  time  for  that  cause, 
in  order  to  spare  them  labour  and  expense  has  appointed  to  hold 
speech  and  treaty  with  certain  of  them  touching  the  premises. 

[Defective.     See  Rep.  on  Dignity  of  a  Peer,  iv.   p.  650  ;  from  which 
source  the  words  in  brackets  are  supplied.^ 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  sheriff  of  Surrey,  to  warn  William  de  Cobeham  knight  of 
the  shire,  Thomas  Dane  burgess  of  Suthwerk,  Peter  Semere 
burgess  of  Guldeford  and  John  Bodekesham  burgess  of 
BlecchjTiglegh. 
The  sheriff  of  Sussex,  to  warn  John  Waleys  knight  of  the  shire, 
John  Wyn  citizen  of  Cicestre,  Henry  Exton  burgess  of  Midhurst, 
John  Cosham  burgess  of  Arundell,  Wilham  Snellyng  burgess 
of  Shorham,  Robert  Frenssh  burgess  of  Horsham,  Henry 
Werkeman  burgess  of  Lewes,  Jolin  Chepman  burgess  of  Seford 
and  Gregorj'  atte  Hole  burgess  of  Estgrenestede. 
The  sheriff  of  Suthampton,  to  warn  Bernard  Brocas  knight  of  the 
shire,  Stephen  Haym  citizen  of  ^^'incheste^,  William  Bacoun 
burgess  of  Suthampton  and  Robert  Lekford  burgess  of 
Portesmuth. 
The  sheriff  of  Wiltesir,  to  warn  Lawrence  de  Sancto  Martino  knight 
of  the  shire,  Robert  Bont  citizen  of  New  Sarum  and  William 
de  Keynesham  burgess  of  Malmesbury. 


2U8  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  29rf — cont. 

The  sheriff  of  Somerset,  to  warn  John  Beauchamp  of  Lillesdon 
knight  of  the  shire,  John  Whittokesmede  citizen  of  Bath, 
John  Ropere  citizen  of  Welles,  John  Osebeme  burgess  of 
Taunton  and  Adam  Best  burgess  of  Briggewater. 

The  sheriff  of  Dorset,  to  warn  Walter  Perle  knight  of  the  shire, 
John  Chichestre  burgess  of  Melcombe  Regis,  Robert  Osent 
burgess  of  Lym,  Richard  Suward  burgess  of  Bridport,  John 
Champion  burgess  of  Dorchestre,  William  Cliike  burgess  of 
Warham  and  Walter  Henle  burgess  of  Shaftesbury. 

The  sheriff  of  Devon,  to  warn  WilUam  Boneville  knight  of  the 
shire,  John  Pasford  burgess  of  Dertemuth,  Hugh  Werf  burgess 
of  Totten',  John  Combe  burgess  of  Plympton,  John  Bosoun 
citizen  of  Exeter,  Richard  Cokelescombe  burgess  of  Tavystok 
and  William  Taverner  burgess  of  Barnestaple. 

The  sheriff  of  Cornwall,  to  warn  John  Trenewyth  knight  of  the 
shire,  Ralph  Trevisa  burgess  of  Donhevedburgh,  John  Jowel 
burgess  of  Bodmyn,  Richard  Carsur  burgess  of  Lost\\'ythiel, 
Stephen  Chaumberleyn  burgess  of  Liskird,  WilUam  Boyville 
burgess  of  Truru  and  John  Tremaen  burgess  of  Helleston. 

The  sheriff  of  Gloucester,  to  warn  John  Poyntz  knight  of  the 
shire,  William  Heyberere  burgess  of  Gloucester  and  John  Bathe 
burgess  of  Bristol. 

The  sheriff  of  Hereford,  to  warn  Thomas  Chaundos  knight  of  the 
shire,  Henry  Cachepol  citizen  of  Hereford  and  WilUam  Taverner 
burgess  of  Leomynstre. 

The  sheriff  of  Salop,  to  warn  Robert  de  Kendale  knight  of  the 
shire,  Thomas  le  SkjTinere  burgess  of  Shrewsbury  and  Nicholas 
Palmere  burgess  of  Briggenorth. 

The  sheriff  of  Stafford,  to  warn  John  de  Perton  knight  of  the 
shire,  Hugh  Snell  burgess  of  Stafford  and  Roger  Letys  burgess 
of  Newcastle  under  Lyme. 

The  sheriff  of  W^orcester,  to  warn  Richard  Fiton  knight  of  the 
shire  and  John  Croule  citizen  of  Worcester. 

The  sheriff  of  Oxford,  to  warn  Roger  de  Cotesford  knight  of  the 
shire,  William  Coteshale  burgess  of  Oxford  and  John  James 
burgess  of  Walyngford. 

The  sheriff  of  Berkshire,  to  warn  John  de  Foxle  knight  of  the  shire 
and  WilUam  Catour  burgess  of  Redynges. 

The  sheriff  of  Bedford,  to  warn  Thomas  Reynes  knight  of  the 
shire  and  Richard  Frereman  burgess  of  Bedeford. 

The  sheriff  of  Bukingham,  to  warn  Fulk  de  Bermyngeham  knight 
of  the  shire  and  WilUam  atte  Dene  burgess  of  Wycombe. 

The  sheriff  of  Northampton,  to  warn  Thomas  de  Preston  knight 
of  the  shire  and  John  de  Bukbrok  burgess  of  Norhampton. 

The  sheriff  of  Roteland,  to  warn  Lawrence  Hauberk  knight  of  the 
shire. 

The  sheriff  of  Warrewyk,  to  warn  John  Peyto  knight  of  the  shire 
and  Thomas  Pavy  burgess  of  Warrewyk. 

The  sheriff  of  Leycester,  to  warn  William  Flaunville  knight  of  the 
shire  and  WiUiam  Taillard  burgess  of  Leycestre. 

The  sheriff  of  Notyngham,  to  warn  Roger  Belers  knight  of  the 
shire  and  Roger  de  Holme  burgess  of  Notyngham, 

The  sheriff  of  Derby,  to  warn  Godfrey  Foljambe  knight  of  the 
shire  and  John  Trowell  burgess  of  Derby. 


45  EDWARD  III.  299 


XSTi.  Membrane  29c? — cont. 

The  sheriff  of  Lincoln,  to  warn  Robert  Haulay  knight  of  the  shire, 

John  de  Outhorp  citizen  of  Lincohi  and  Ralph  de   Utterby 

burgess  of  Gryniesby. 
The  sheriff  of  York,  to  warn  Robert  Rouclyf  knight  of  the  shire, 

William  Graa  citizen  of  York,  Henry  de   Roston  burgess  of 

Scardeburgli   and   Walter  Frost   burgess   of   Kyngeston   upon 

Hull. 
The  sheriff  of  Northumberland,  to  warn  Alan  de  Heton  knight  of 

the  shire  and  Lawrence   Dacton  burgess  of  Newcastle  upon 

Tyne. 
The  sheriff  of  Westmorland,  to  warn  Hugh  de  Louthre  knight 

of  the  shire  and  Robert  Overdos  burgess  of  Appelby. 
The  sheriff  of  Cumberland,  to  warn  Gilbert  (sic)  Culwenne  knight 

of  the  shire  and  John  de  Whitlawe  citizen  of  Karliol. 
The  sheriff  of  Lancaster,  to  warn  John  de  Ipres  knight  of  the 

shire. 
The  sheriff  of  Norffolk,  to  warn  Edmund  de  Thorp  knight  of  the 

shire,  John  Latyuier  burgess  of  Norwich,  Thomas  de  Bodekes- 

ham  burgess  of  Lenne  and  John  de  Halle  burgess  of  Great 

Jernemuth. 
The  sheriff  of  Suffolk,  to  warn  Roger  de  Boj's  knight  of  the  shire, 

Robert  de  Preston  burgess  of  Gippewic  and  John  Astell  burgess 

of  Donewic. 
The  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge,  to  warn  John  Chene  knight  of  the  shire 

and  John  IVforys  burgess  of  Cantebrigge. 
The  sheriff  of  Huntingdon,  to  warn  Nicholas  Styuecle  knight  of 

the  shire  and  William  Wyghtman  burgess  of  Huntyndon. 
The  sheriff  of  Essex,  to  warn  Robert  de  Marny  knight  of  the  shire, 

John  Halle  burgess  of  Colchestre  and  William  Halle  burgess  of 

Maldon. 
The  sheriff  of  Hertford,  to  warn  Thomas  de  Fitlyng  knight  of  the 

shire. 
The  sheriff  of  JVIiddlesex,  to  warn  John  Pekbrugge  knight  of  the 

shire. 
Richard  de  Pembrugge  constable  of  Dovorre  castle,  to  warn  Nicholas 

Parker     of     Hastynges,     Robert      Baddyng     of     Wynchelse, 

William    Taillour    of    Rye,    WilHam    Holynbrok    of    Romene, 

William  Hampton  of  Hetlie,   Simon  Monyn  of    Dovorre  and 

Arnald  Broun  of  Sandwic  barons  of  the  Cinque  Ports. 
The  sheriffs  of  London,  to  warn  Bartholomew  Fristlyng  and  John 

Phelipot  citizens  of  London. 
[Ibid,  p.  65L] 

To  W.  bishop  of  Winchester.  Order,  upon  his  allegiance,  to  leave 
over  all  else  and,  as  he  loves  the  king  and  his  honour  and  desires  the 
furtherance  of  certain  arduous  and  urgent  business  affecting  the 
defence  of  the  realm  and  the  shipping  thereof,  to  cease  every  excuse 
and  be  present  in  person  at  Winchester  in  the  octaves  of  Trinity  next 
with  the  king  and  other  the  prelates,  lords  and  princes  of  the  realm 
to  treat  thereupon  and  afford  his  counsel  ;  as  the  king  has  appointed 
a  council  to  be  there  held  on  that  day  touching  the  said  business, 
desiring  to  have  speech  and  treaty  AAith  the  said  bishop  and  other  the 
prelates,  lords  and  princes  aforesaid. 

[Ibid,  p.  652.] 


300  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


137]^  Membrane  2'.)d — cont. 

The  like  to  S.  bishop  of  London  and  two  other  bishops,  the  abbot 
of  Redynges  and  three  otlier  abbots. 
[Ibid.] 

To  Richard  earl  of  Arundell.     Like  summons  to  the  said  council. 
[Ibi(L] 

The  like  to  Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford  and  five  other 
earls,  Henrv  de  Percy  and  five  others. 
[Ibid,  p.  "^653.] 

Membrane  2Sd. 

Letter  of  Loys  count  of  Flanders,  duke  of  Brabant,  count  of  Xevers 
and  Retli'  and  lord  of  Malines,  dated  Gand,  27  April  1371,  where  were 
in  council  the  chdldain  of  Dicpnue,  the  lords  of  Maldeghem  and 
Colscanip,  Sir  ^\'illialu  de  Ronghersvliete,  Sir  Philip  de  5lasmines, 
Sir  Roger  Boeteline,  Sir  Goss[uinJ  le  Wilde,  Sir  Cobet  (sic)  de  le  Clite 
receiver  of  Flanders  knights,  the  provost  of  Herlebeke,  the  dean 
of  Bruges  chancellor.  Master  Testard  de  le  Wastine,  the  provost  of 
St.  Pharahault  of  Gand,  acknowledging  the  receipt  of  the  king's  letter 
containing  the  treaty  agreed  upon  between  the  king  of  England,  his 
men  and  council  on  the  one  part  and  the  council  and  men  of  the  said 
count,  his  three  good  towns  of  Gand,  Brugges  and  Ipre  and  them  of 
le  Franc  on  the  other  part  {text  follows)  ;  which  treaty  and  all  things 
therein  contained  he  the  said  count  by  advice  and  consent  of  himself, 
his  council,  his  said  good  towns,  them  of  le  Franc,  his  towns  of  Malines 
and  Anwers  and  other  his  subjects  of  Flanders,  hereby  accepts,  agrees, 
approves  and  of  his  particular  knowledge  confirms,  promising  so  far 
as  concerns  them  to  perform  and  keep  the  same.  French. 
[Fcedera,  omitting  the  names  of  those  -present  in  council.] 
The  king's  letter  hereinbefore  recited,  dated  at  the  king's  manor  of 
Clarendon,  4  August  1370  in  the  44th  year  of  his  reign,  states  that  the 
king  has  caused  examination  to  be  had  of  the  treaty  newly  made 
between  him  and  his  council  on  the  one  part  and  the  envoys  of  the  said 
count,  of  the  said  good  towns,  of  them  of  le  Franc  and  the  peers  {sic) 
of  Flanders  on  the  other  part  {text  follows)  ;  and  by  reason  that  the 
count  of  Flanders  by  the  advice  and  consent  of  his  said  good  towns 
and  of  them  of  le  Franc  with  the  toA^^ns  of  Malines  and  Anwers  has 
sent  these  articles  under  his  seal  to  the  king's  captain  of  Calais  as 
passed  and  altogether  agreed,  and  thereupon  they  have  wTitten  to  the 
king  under  their  seals,  the  king  by  the  advice  and  consent  of  the  prelates, 
peers,  earls,  barons  and  other  wise  men  of  his  council,  for  himself,  his 
country  and  his  subjects  accepts,  agrees,  approves  and  of  his  particidar 
knowledge  and  royal  authority  confirms  the  said  treaty  and  all  tilings 
therein  contained,  promising  so  far  as  concerns  them  to  perform  and 
keep  the  same.     French. 

[Ibid.     See  under  date  4  August  in  the  44i^  year.] 

The  terms  of  the  treaty  hereinbefore  recited  are  as  follows  : 

First,  that  the  lords,  people,  subjects,  shipmasters,  seamen  and 
merchants  of  either  party  on  either  side  the  sea,  and  all  other 
true  merchants  not  being  enemies  of  either  party,  may  by  land 
and  by  sea  freely  and  peaceably  have  their  conversation  as 
merchants  and  traffic  one  with  another,  bringing  their  own  goods 
and  the  goods  of  other  merchants  not  enemies  of  either  party 


45  EDWARD  III.  301 


1371.  Membrane  28(1 — cont. 

in  as  friendly,  free  and  peaceable  manner  as  in  time  of  peace 
used  to  be  done,  paying  duties  and  customs  on  tliis  side  and  on 
that. 
(2)    By  reason  of  great  number  of  hurts,  arrests  and   impeach- 
ments which  have  happened  and  miglit  probably  happen  hereafter 
to  them  of  the  country  of  Flanders  by  reason  Qf  their  bringing 
by  sea  the  goods  and  merchandise  of  the  said  king's  enemies, 
to  the  end  that  such  debates,  arrests  and  imi)eachments  shall 
cease,   and  friendship  shall   continue   between  the   said   lords, 
their  countries  and  subjects,  to  the  advantage  of  merchants 
and  of  traffic,  speech  and  mention  has   been  made  that  no 
merchant  or  other  man  of  the  country  of  Flanders  shall  lade  any 
ship  or  other  vessel  going  or  coming  again  by  sea  with  any  goods 
of  the  king's  enemies  of  France  and  Spain  by  any  concealment, 
fraud  or  covin  ;  that  the  count  or  his  subjects  of  the  said  country 
shall  make  no  person  of  his  said  enemies  a  free  burgess  of  towns 
or  countries  of  Flanders  in  order  to  escape  such  concealment ; 
and  to  the  end  the  matter  may  be  better  known,  and  the  men  of 
Flanders  may  more  freely  pass  by  sea,  speech  has  been  had 
that  every  ship  or  vessel  so  laded  shall  have  with  the  charter 
party  t  and  t  letters  patent  under  the  seal  of  the  town  where 
he  (sic)  is  burgess,  inhabitant  or  subject,  making  express  mention 
of  the  goods  and  merchandise  therein  contained,  the  owner 
thereof,  the  place  of  lading,  and  the  port  where  they  are  to  be 
discharged,  and  that  upon  the  information  of  such  letters  the 
count  shall  give  his  letters  patent  to  be  thereto  attached  and  add 
credence  to  the  same,  taking  security  that  such  goods  are  not 
goods  of  the  said  enemies,  but  only  of  those  named  in  the  charter 
and  letters  aforesaid,  and  that  he  (sic)  shall  bring  no  goods  of  the 
said  enemies  going  nor  coming  again  ;    and  tliereupon  my  lord 
of  Flanders  shall  w  itness  by  his  letters  patent  according  to  the 
information  had  in  the  tow ns  under  \\ hieh  he  (sic)  dwells  that  he 
holds  for  true  the  matters  in  the  said  letters  contained,  adding 
credence  thereto  as  aforesaid,  and  that  such  security  has  been 
taken  ;    and  that  upon  shewing  the  charter,  the  letters  of  the 
town  and  the  letter  of  my  lord  of  Flanders,  with  his  (sic)  barmers 
and  pennons,  he  (sic)  shall  freely  and  peaceably  pass  by  sea  with- 
out any  impeachment  by  the  king's  men  ;  and  it  is  the  intent  of 
my  lord  of  Flanders  that,  if  any  burgess,  inhabitant  or  subject, 
shipmaster,  merchant  or  seaman  of  his  shall  take  or  send  goods 
and  merchandise  by  sea  without  having  such  letters  and  without 
giving  security  as  aforesaid,  it  shall  be  at  his  own  risk. 
(3)    Speech  has  especially  been  had    that  none  of  the  subjects 
of  the  said  count  or  of  the  country  of  Flanders  shall  bring  or 
cause   to    be   brought   by   sea   any  arms,  artillery  or  victuals 
to  the  said  enemies  to  aid,  refresh  or  comfort  them  against  the 
said  king,  his  friends,  helpers,  adherents  or  allies  whatsoever, 
save  and  except  those  needful  for  protection  of  the  persons  of 
such  masters,  merchants,  seamen  and  their  varlets  in  the  ships 
and  vessels  aforesaid  ;  and  that  if  other  arms  or  any  other  tiling 
shall  be  found  to  have  been  done  (sic)  contrary  to  the  articles 
before  mentioned  by  any  of  the  country  of  Flanders  or  other 
the  said  count's  subjects,  their  punishment  in  body  and  goods 
shall  belong  to  my  lord  of  Flanders,  and  the  forfeiture  of  goo.ds, 


302 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  2M — ccmt. 

merchandise,  victuals,  arms  and  artillery  of  the  enemies  or  so 
brought  to  the  enemies,  whereof  my  lord  of  Flanders  shall  have 
the  cognisance,  shall  belong  to  the  said  king,  which  forfeitures 
shall  there  be  delivered  to  a  person  by  the  king  deputed,  having 
from  him  power  to  receive  the  same  according  to  the  form  of  the 
security  for  protection  of  the  king's  right  and  profit. 
(4)  For  greater  security  of  the  men  and  merchandise  of  Flanders, 
and  to  put  the  matter  in  execution  so  far  as  pertains  to  the  king, 
he  hath  already  charged  by  word  of  mouth  and  shall  again  by 
letters  of  his  great  seal  charge  his  admirals  of  the  sea,  the 
constable  of  Douvre  castle,  the  wardens,  mayors  and  bailiffs 
of  all  the  ports,  havens  and  towns  of  England  and  of  Calais 
and  of  all  other  places  and  ports  of  his  obedience,  and  every  of 
them,  to  make  proclamation  in  all  towns  and  places  of  their 
districts  that  all  his  subjects,  every  man  for  himself,  shall  keep 
and  so  far  as  in  them  lies  cause  to  be  kept  the  articles  aforesaid, 
that  if  any  of  his  subjects  do  not  so  he  shall  be  punished  in  person 
and  goods  by  the  said  admirals  and  constable  according  to  the 
extent  of  his  misdeed  in  such  wise  that  others  shall  take  warning 
therefrom,  that  no  negligence,  favour,  exception  nor  default 
shall  hereinafter  be  shewn  upon  their  allegiance  and  upon  pain 
of  forfeiture,  and  that  therewithal  restitution  shall  be  made  of 
goods  and  merchandise  to  the  merchants  as  shall  pertain  to 
them. 
[Ibid.] 
Memorandum  that  on  7  May  this  year  the  foregoing  letter  was 

delivered  to  Richard  le  Scrope  knight  the  treasurer,  to  be  safe  kept  in 

the  treasury. 

May  12.  To  the  bailiffs,  citizens,  true  men  and  commonalty  of  the  city  of 

Guildford.  Nor\\  ich.  Order,  under  pain  of  forfeiture,  to  cause  proclamation  to  be 
made  in  the  said  city  on  the  king's  behalf  forbidding  any  man  under 
pain  of  forfeiture  of  life  and  limbs  to  make  assemblies  or  confederacies 
or  attempt  aught  else  which  may  tend  to  the  terror  or  disturbance 
of  the  people  or  to  a  breach  of  the  peace,  and  moreover  to  choose  six 
or  four  men  of  either  of  the  parties  between  whom  strife  and  discord 
have  arisen,  being  fully  instructed  and  informed  touching  the  moving 
and  causes  thereof  and  having  full  power  to  agree  and  consent  to  such 
things  as  shall  be  by  the  council  appointed  in  that  behalf,  and  cause 
them,  to  come  to  the  city  of  Winchester  in  the  octaves  of  Trinity  next, 
bringing  there  the  names  of  the  men  chosen  and  this  writ ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  that  grievous  strife  has  newly  arisen  between  certain 
citizens  of  the  said  city  and  the  commonalty  thereof,  to  the  disturbance 
of  the  peace  and  terror  of  the  people,  wherefore  unless  the  same  be 
speedily  reformed  great  peril  of  the  ruin  of  the  city  and  the  people 
there  is  to  be  feared  ;  and  for  particular  causes  laid  before  the  king 
and  council  it  is  the  king's  wlU  that  these  dissensions  and  debates 
shall  before  him  in  person  and  not  elsewhere  be  reformed  and  duly 
ended,  and  he  has  thought  fit  to  take  the  quarrel  and  the  cause  thereof 
into  his  own  hand.  By  K.  and  C, 


May  2L  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London  or  of  Dovorre. 

Westminster.  Order  to  suffer  William  de  Glynton  chaplain  freely  in  one  of  the  said 

ports  to  pass  without  let  towards  the  court  of  Rome  taking  5  marks  for 


45    EDWARD    TIT.  303 


1371.  Membrane  28d — cont. 

his  expenses,  any  command  of  the  king  to  them  addressed  to  thd 
contrary  notwithstanding  ;  as  for  certain  causes  touching  his  conscience 
he  has  craved  the  king's  Hcence  so  to  do ;  and  for  that  in  the  office  of 
the  privy  seal  he  has  made  oath  not  to  do  nor  attemi)t  there  aught 
to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  any  of  his  subjects,  and  Richard  Shawe 
clerk  has  undertaken  for  him  concerning  the  premises,  the  king  has 
granted  him  licence  accordingly.  By  bill  of  the  privy  seal. 

Membrane  21  d. 

Indenture  made  between  the  king  and  Bardet  de  Malepilys  of 
Florence,  witnessing  tlaat  the  king  has  made  tlie  said  Bardet  master 
and  worker  of  his  gold  and  silver  moneys  in  the  touTi  of  Caleys,  which 
Bardet  has  before  the  council  taken  upon  him  to  make  three  sorts 
of  gold  moneys,  one  current  for  6s.  8d.  sterling  the  piece  called  the 
gold  noble,  45  pieces  in  the  pound  by  weight  of  the  Tower  of  London, 
another  of  half  that  weight  current  for  40d.,  90  pieces  in  the  pound 
by  the  Tower  weight,  and  a  third  one  fourth  the  weight  of  the  first 
current  for  20d.,  180  pieces  in  the  said  pound,  and  these  shall  be  of 
23  carats  3|  grains  of  fine  gold,  every  pound  of  them  worth  151. 
sterling,  and  of  every  pound  of  them  by  weight  the  king  shall  have 
by  the  hands  of  the  wardens  '3s.  6d.  by  tale,  the  master  ISd.  by  tale 
for  his  pains,  the  waste  of  gold,  cutting  the  irons,  loss  of  weight, 
expenses  and  all  manner  of  other  costs  saving  the  wages  of  the 
wardens  and  other  ministers  of  the  king  there,  so  that  of  every  pound  of 
gold  by  weight  deposited  in  the  mint  of  Caleys  there  shall  remain 
to  the  merchant  14Z.  15^.  by  tale  according  to  the  standard  of  the 
noble  ;  and  because  the  gold  money  may  not  always  be  made  exactly 
according  to  the  true  standard,  but  peradventure  by  default  of  the 
master  or  his  workmen  it  shall  be  found  sometimes  too  strong  or  too 
weak  more  or  less  in  weight  or  alloy  or  in  both,  the  king's  will  is  that 
when  at  the  assay  before  delivery  the  gold  money  is  found  too  strong 
or  too  weak  in  weight  only,  in  alloy  only  or  in  both  by  the  sixteenth 
of  one  carat  in  the  pound  by  weight  and  no  more,  which  shall  be 
called  the  master's  remedy,  the  money  shall  be  deliv^ered  as  good, 
provided  the  default  be  accidental  and  not  otherwise,  but  if  greater 
default  be  found  the  delivery  shall  cease,  the  money  shall  be  chal- 
lenged and  judged  less  than  good,  and  shall  be  melted  and 
coined  again  at  the  master's  cost  until  it  be  exact  ;  and  it 
is  for  a  particular  cause  agreed  that  of  every  pound  of  gold  by 
weight  the  master  must  coin  4  ounces  in  nobles,  6  ounces  in  half 
nobles,  and  2  ounces  in  ferlings  of  nobles,  and  that  tliis  ordinance  shall 
in  no  wise  be  changed  b}'  the  master  to  make  more  of  one  sort  and 
less  of  another  untU  he  shall  have  order  to  the  contrary  :  he  has  also 
taken  upon  him  to  make  4  sorts  of  moneys  of  silver,  to  wit  one  current 
for  4:d.  sterling  the  piece  to  be  called  a  groat,  and  75  such  pieces  shall 
make  a  pound  by  the  Tower  weight,  another  current  for  2d.  to  be 
called  the  half  groat,  and  150  pieces  shall  make  a  pound,  the  third 
current  for  Id.  to  be  called  sterling,  of  the  coin  of  the  old  sterling, 
and  300  pieces  shall  make  a  pound,  the  fourth  to  be  called  'maile'  shall 
be  -worth  half  the  sterling,  and  600  pieces  shall  make  a  pound,  and 
for  the  aid  and  profit  of  the  commons  the  king's  will  is  that  the  master 
be  bound  every  year  to  make  100  pounds  by  weight  in  silver  ferhngs, 
four  of  them  worth  the  sterling,  1,200  pieces  bj^  tale  making  a  pound 
by  the  Tower  weight ;  all  these  silver  moneys  shall  be  of  the  standard 


304  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  21(l~cont. 

alloy  of  the  old  sterling,  to  wit  every  pound  of  them  by  weight  con- 
taining 11  ounces  2  pennyweight  of  fine  silver  and  18  pennyweight 
of  alloy,  every  pennyweight  containing  24  grains  ;  and  of  every  pound 
of  silver  by  weiglit  so  made  the  king's  wardens  of  the  moneys  shall 
take  to  them  Sd.  by  weight,  thereof  paying  Id.  by  tale  to  the  master 
for  his  pains,  for  offal,  loss  of  weight,  cutting  of  irons  and  all  other 
costs  but  the  wages  aforesaid,  and  keeping  the  residue  to  the  king's 
use,  so  that  of  every  pound  of  silver  by  weight  deposited  in  the  said 
mint  there  shall  reniain  to  the  merchant  \9s.  4d.  by  weight,  making 
24.S'.  2d.  by  tale  ;  and  because  the  silver  money  may  not  always  be 
made  exactly  according  to  the  true  standard,  inasmuch  as  by  default 
of  the  master  or  his  A\orkmen  it  may  sometimes  be  made  too  strong 
or  too  Meak,  when  upon  the  assay  before  delivery  the  said  money  shall 
be  found  too  strong  or  too  weak  by  2  pennyweight  in  the  pound  by 
weight  and  no  more,  which  shall  be  called  the  master's  remedy,  it  shall  be 
delivered  as  good  when  the  default  shall  be  by  accident,  but  if  greater 
default  be  found  delivery  shall  cease,  the  money  shall  be  challenged 
and  judged  less  than  good,  and  shall  be  melted  and  coined  again  at  the 
master's  cost  until  it  shall  be  exact ;  arid  for  a  particular  cause  it  is 
agreed  that  of  every  pound  of  silver  by  weight  the  master  must  coin 
3  ounces  in  groats,  4  ounces  in  half  groats,  4  ounces  of  sterling  and 
1  ounce  of  '  mailes,'  and  that  this  ordinance  shall  in  no  wise  be 
changed  by  the  master  until  he  shall  have  order  to  the  contrary  ; 
the  wardens  shall  at  all  times  keep  the  gold  and  silver  moneys  as 
pertains  to  their  office,  so  that  as  soon  as  they  be  coined  and  perfect 
they  shall  between  him  {sic)  and  the  master  be  put  until  delivery 
in  a  coffer  with  two  keys,  one  remaining  with  the  wardens  the  other 
with  the  master,  and  after  they  are  assayed  and  proved  good  as 
aforesaid,  before  any  delivery  of  the  whole  sum  be  made,  a  prise 
shall  be  cunningly  made  of  gold  and  silver  to  put  in  a  box  whereof 
the  assaj'^s  shall  be  made,  to  wit  of  every  five  pounds  of  gold  by 
weight  the  value  of  one  gold  noble,  provided  that  the  same  shall  be 
taken  of  nobles,  half  nobles  and  ferlings  proportionally,  and  of  every 
hundred  pounds  of  silver  by  weight  25.  by  tale  of  groats,  half  groats, 
sterlings,  '  mailles  '  and  ferlings  proportionally;  and  when  these  prises 
are  so  made  and  put  in  a  box  for  the  assays  they  shall  be  sealed  with 
the  seals  of  the  wardens,  the  changer  and  the  master,  and  the  box 
shall  be  locked  \Wth  three  keys,  one  remaining  with  the  wardens,  one 
with  the  changer  and  the  third  with  the  master,  and  shall  be  put  in 
a  coffer  for  safe  keeping,  and  opened  once  every  three  months  before 
the  governor  and  treasurer  of  Caleys  and  the  two  mayors  in  presence 
of  the  said  wardens  and  master,  and  there  shall  assays  be  made 
of  the  moneys  therein  found  in  the  most  just  manner  possible,  by 
fire  or  touchstone  or  by  both,  to  the  end  that  if  the  moneys  be  proved 
good  according  to  the  foregoing  covenants  the  master  shall  be  for 
ever  quit  up  to  that  time,  and  when  these  assays  shall  be  made  at  Caleys 
the  said  governor,  treasurer,  mayors  and  wardens  shall  be  bound  to 
certify  the  king  and  council  in  England  specifying  how  they  have 
found  them,  and  thereupon  the  master  shall  have  a  patent  of  acquit- 
tance under  the  great  seal  if  he  shall  deserve  it,  but  at  all  assays  so 
made  at  Caleys  a  small  portion  of  every  sort  of  gold  and  silver  money 
shall  be  taken  and  put  in  a  box  under  the  seals  of  the  governor, 
treasurer,  mayors,  wardens  and  master,  and  shall  be  brought  before 
the  king  and  council  in  England  there  to  be  assayed  so  often  as  they 


45  EDWARD  III.  305 


1371.  Membrane  21d — cont. 

shall  see  fit,  and  if  by  the  assays  made  at  Caleys  the  said  moneys 
shall  be  found  weaker  than  the  right  standard  more  or  less  in  weight 
or  alloy  or  in  botli  to  the  extent  of  the  said  remedies  and  no  further 
the  default  shall  be  entered  in  the  record  and  the  master  charged 
to  make  immediate  recompense  to  the  king  upon  the  assay  without 
delay  and  without  claiming  any  advantage  by  reason    of    the    said 
remedies,  save  always  that  in  case  the  moneys  at  SAxy  time  be  found 
to  exceed  the  standard  in  goodness,  that  shall  be  entered  in  the  record 
against  any  charge  for  d(^fault  so  found  at  Caleys,  and  if  at  any  assay 
the  moneys  shall  be  found  in  default  exceeding  the  said  remedies, 
the  master  shall  incur  forfeiture  of  life  and  chattels  to  the  king ;  the 
master  shall  at  his  peril  be  bound  to  make  a  privy  mark  on  all  gold 
and  silver  moneys  by  him  made,  so  that  another  time,  if  need  be, 
he  may  know  which  are  his  own  work  among  other  like  moneys  and 
which  are  not,  provided  always  that  the  master  shall  not  be  bound 
to  answer  for  any  sort  of  money  not  of  his    own    boxes  :    whereas 
heretofore  the  cutter  of  the  irons  has  been  appointed  by  the  master 
and  at  his  costs,  he  shall  henceforward  be  appointed  by  the  council, 
and  sworn  well  and  law  fully  to  do  his  office  by  oversight  of  the  wardens 
in  a  house  appointed  for  the  purpose  for  the  Caleys  mint,  or  in  the 
Tower  of  London,  which  ever  shall  prove  most  profitable  for  the  king, 
the  commons  and  the  master,  and  nowhere  else,  and  the  said  wardens 
shall  have  charge  of  the  irons,  delivering  and  receiving  them    by 
indenture   between   the   wardens   and   the   cutter,   and   between   the 
wardens  and  the  master,  and  the  cutter  shall  be  paid  for  his  labour 
by  the  hands  of  the  wardens,  the  amount  to  be  agreed  before  the 
council  in  England  so  long  as  his  work  shall  be  done  in  England  at 
the  said  Tower,  and  when  done  at  Caleys  the  amount  shall  be  agreed 
before  the  said  governor,   treasurer,  mayors  and  wardens,  and  the 
master  shall  recompense  the  wardens  for  it  for  that  he  ought  to  pay 
the  same,  and  all  irons  when  cut  shall  be  delivered  by  indenture  to  the 
wardens  or  to  him  who  shall  be  appointed  by  the  king  to  keep  the 
same  :  the  master  shall  be  bound  to  receive  all  manner  of  gold  and 
silver  brought  to  the  said  mint  in  presence  of  the  wardens  and  the 
changer  according  to  the  true  value,  every  parcel  in  its  degree,  one 
more  and  another  less  according  to  quality,  and  if  the  master  and  the 
merchant  who  brings  the  same  cannot  agree,  the  king's  assayers  must 
in  presence  of  the  wardens  and  master  try  the  truth,  and  the  master 
shall  receive  it  and  remain  charged  therewith  according  to  what  is  found 
upon  that  assay,  and  the  balances  and  weights  shall  from  time  to  time 
be  corrected  when  need  be  :  upon  the  receipt  of  gold  and  silver  the 
wardens  shall  be  bound  for  reasonable  payment  to  deliver  to  the 
merchants  bills  of  the  sums  they  have  brought  with  the  sums  they 
ought  to  receive,  so  that  at  the  deliveries  they  or  their  attorneys  shall 
be  repaid,  which  merchants  shall  have  free  ingress  and  egress  to  the 
said  mint  without  disturbance  by  porters  or  others  and  without  giving 
anything  against  their  will  :  delivery  shall  be  made  twice  a  week 
or  once  at  least,  and  after  the  assay  made  before  delivery  the  w^ardens, 
changer  and  master  shall  have  regard  to  the  sums 

Membrane  2Q>d. 

received  and  the  number  of  persons  to  take  delivery  so  that,  in  case 
the  sum  wrought  may  not  suffice  to  pay  all  in  full,  each  may  take 
part  payment  according  to  his  amount,  the  time  when  he  brought 

•CR  20 


306  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 

1371.  Membrane  26d — cojit. 

his  gold  and  silver  and  when  it  was  melted,  and  the  wardens  shall  be 
bound  to  show  each  merchant  his  sum  wlien  retjuired  ;  in  ease  any 
merchant  be  absent  and  have  no  attorney  ready  to  take  his  money 
for  him,  the  \\ardens  sliall  be  bound  to  take  the  same  and  keep  it 
safe  under  the  seals  of  the  changer  and  the  master  until  the  merchant 
or  his  attorney  come  for  payment,  which  sliall  then  be  made  as  if  he 
had  come  at  the  first  delivery  :  for  that  the  wardens  shall  take  all 
the  profit  pertaining  to  the  king  and  render  account  thereof,  the 
master  shall  not  be  bound  to  render  account  to  the  king  but  only 
to  the  wardens  as  the  manner  is,  except  for  damages  reckoned  against 
him  for  defaults  found  in  the  moneys  by  the  assays  at  Caleys,  for 
which  he  shall  answer  to  the  king  :  the  king  shall  cause  proclamation 
to  be  made  once  every  month  in  the  town  of  Caleys  and  the  echevinage 
forbidding  any  man  poor  or  rich  for  any  merchandise  small  or  great, 
victual,  labour  or  aught  else  to  receive  or  pay  privily  or  openly  any 
sort  of  money  save  the  king's  money  made  in  the  said  town,  on  pain 
of  losing  the  value  and  his  body  at  the  king's  will,  or  to  bring  to  Caleys 
or  the  surrounding  lordship  any  false  or  counterfeit  money  upon 
the  money  of  England  or  of  Caleys  upon  the  same  pain,  and  that  every 
man  who  may  spy  others  so  doing  and  will  sue  for  the  king  shall  have 
the  third  part  of  moneys  found  false  and  counterfeit,  and  the 
the  king  two  thirds  :  the  king  hereby  confirms  to  the  master,  his 
ministers  and  Avorkmen  the  charters  of  liberties  before  granted  to  the 
moneyers  :  the  master  has  made  oath  before  the  council  for  per- 
formance of  the  above  covenants,  for  good  behaviour  in  his  office, 
and  for  recompense  to  the  king  and  to  all  men  of  the  price  of 
gold  and  silver  to  be  received,  binding  himself,  his  heirs  and  executors, 
and  for  greater  security  has  according  to  the  king's  command  found 
a  mainprise  before  Sir  Nicholas  de  Tamworth  captain  of  Caleys,  to 
wit  William  Swyn,  John  Neuwerk,  Thomas  Abbelford,  Paul  de 
Florence,  John  Tracy  and  Francis  Grace  burgesses  of  Caleys,  every  of 
them  for  100^.,  to  recompense  the  said  merchants.  Dated  Westminster, 
20  May  45  Edward  III.  French. 
[Fcedera.] 

May  23.  To  the  collectors  in  Middlesex  of  the  subsidy  of  225.  3d.  of  every 

Westminster,  parish  according  to  the  grant  made  to  the  king  in  the  last  parliament. 
Order  to  stay  their  demand  made  upon  John  Mody,  Walter  Mayu, 
Nicholas  Albon,  John  Sharp,  John  Symond,  John  Pantecost,  John 
Clopton,  Richard  Hert,  William  ToUere,  William  Mody,  John  Heryong, 
John  Hyne,  Richard  Haveryng,  John  Haveryng,  Roger  Heryoun, 
John  Hert.  John  Heryong,  John  Clerc,  Henry  Coumbe,  Richard 
atte  Gate  and  William  Shorne  the  king's  moneyers  or  any  of  them 
for  their  portions  according  to  the  assessment  by  the  collectors  made, 
releasing  any  distress  made  for  that  cause  upon  them  or  any  of  them 
by  reason  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Middlesex  ;  as  they  have 
contented  the  king  for  their  portions,  namely  of  40cZ.  for  their  lands 
and  chattels  in  the  parish  of  Shordich,  of  35.  lid.  for  their  lands  and 
chattels  in  the  parish  of  Newenton,  and  of  2s.  (id.  for  their  lands 
and  chattels  in  the  parish  of  St.  Sepulchre  without  Neugate.     By  K. 

Writing  of  Peter  Thebaud  clerk,  son  of  Robert  Thebaud  of  Old 
Lafford,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  de  Rouceby  clerk, 
John  de  Ayremynne  clerk,  Henry  Asty,  William  Pylet  and  John 


45  EDWARD  III. 


30- 


1371. 


Membrane  2Gd — cont. 


Slori,  thoir  lioirs  and  assigns,  of  all  tlio  lands,  rents  and  sorvicos  that 
wore  his  said  father's  in  Wilhighby  and  Silkehv  by  LafTord.  Witnesses  : 
William  Bernak  knight,  William  Beaufo  of  Williighby,  William  de 
Sancto  Botulpho  of  Hekyngton.  Dated  Williighby  aforesaid,  Tuesday 
the  feast  of  St.  John  anlr  portam  Latinnm  4.")  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  31   May. 

Writing  of  John  Thebaud,  son  of  Robert  Tliebaud  of  Old  Lafford, 
being  a  like  quitclaim  to  the  same  persons.  Witnesses  and  date  (as 
the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  31  May. 

June  12.  To  William  dc  FjTicheden,  Godfrey  Folejambe,  William  de 
Winchester.  Nessefeld  and  Roger  de  Fulthorp.  Order  to  stay  altogether  the 
further  execution  of  the  king's  letters  patent  of  22  March  last, 
appointing  them,  three  and  two  of  them,  of  whom  the  said  William 
de  Fyncheden  and  Godfrey  were  to  be  one,  justices  to  inspect  certain 
indictments  \\hich  the  king  sent  them  under  his  .seal,  and  dvXy  to 
determine  the  same  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  the  realm, 
sending  to  the  king  in  chancery  under  their  seals,  the  seals  of  three 
or  two  of  them,  the  said  commission  and  inquisitions  ;  as  the  king 
lately  appointed  Adam  de  Hoghton,  William  de  Xesscfeld  guardians 
of  the  peace  in  Lancashire  and  Thomas  de  Latham,  and  two  of  them, 
to  make  inquisition  by  tiiie  men  of  that  county  concerning  trespasses, 
conspiracies,  confederacies,  extortions,  oppressions,  champerties, 
maintenances,  damages,  grievances,  forgeries  and  excesses  whatsoever 
committed  by  William  de  Chorle  under  sheriff  and  escheator  in  that 
county  and  by  certain  others  against  the  abbot  of  Evesham,  the  prior  of 
Penwortham  and  others  of  the  people  ;  and  they  made  inquisitions 
touching  the  premises,  whereby  the  said  William  is  indicted  for  divers 
evil  doings,  and  sent  them  into  chancery  ;  but  for  particular  causes 
the  king  has  revoked  the  first  mentioned  commission. 

To  Adam  de  Hoghton  and  Thomas  le  Molyneux.  Order  for 
particular  causes  to  stay  altogether  the  further  execution  of  the 
king's  late  letters  patent  appointing  them  to  make  inquisition  by 
true  men  of  Lancashire  concerning  trespasses  etc.,  whatsoever 
committed  by  William  de  Chorle  and  certain  others  against  certain 
of  the  people,  and  to  send  the  same  into  chancery  under  their  seals 
and  the  seals  of  the  said  men,  sending  into  chancery  under  their  seals 
all  inquisitions  which  at  present  air  taken  by  virtue  of  that  commission, 
with  the  commission  and  this  writ. 


Membrane  2od. 

May  8.  To  Nicholas  de  TamA\"orth  captain  of  the  town  of  Calais,  or  to  his 

Henley.  lieutenant  there.  Order  to  cause  the  agreement  made  between  the 
king  and  Louis  count  of  Flanders,  for  themselves  and  their  subjects, 
to  be  proclaimed  in  the  said  town  and  elsewhere  within  the  king's 
dominion  in  those  parts,  on  the  king's  behalf  forbidding  any  man  of 
w  hatsoever  estate  or  condition  under  pain  of  forfeiture  to  infUct  or 
so  far  is  in  them  lies  to  suffer  any  ^^  rong,  trouble,  violence,  hurt, 
hindrance  or  grievance  to  be  inflicted  upon  the  merchants  of  Flanders, 
their  ships  or  merchandise  coming  within  the  king's  dominion  and 
power  by  land  or  sea,  there  abiding,  plying  their  traffic,  and  thence 


308 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  25d — cont. 

returning  to  their  owia  again,  and  if  any  forfeit  or  wrong  be  done 
them  or  any  of  them  to  cause  due  amends  to  be  made  without  delay, 
provided  they  shall  ply  lawful  traffic,  truly  paying  customs  and  other 
duties  to  the  king  as  they  ought  according  to  the  said  agreement ; 
as  the  said  agreement  is  that  lords,  people,  subjects,  shipmasters, 
seamen  and  merchants  of  either  party  on  either  side  the  sea  and  all 
other  true  merchants,  not  being  enemies  of  either  party,  may  freely 
and  peaceably  as  merchants  have  their  conversation  and  traffic  one 
with  another,  bringing  their  own  goods  and  the  goods  of  other  true 
merchants,  not  being  enemies  as  aforesaid,  by  land  and  by  sea  in  as 
friendly,  free  and  peaceable  manner  as  they  used  to  do  in  time  of  peace, 
paying  customs  and  other  duties,  so  that  no  merchant  or  other  of 
Flanders  shall  by  any  colour,  fraud  or  covin  lade  his  ship  or  vessel 
with  any  goods  of  the  king's  enemies  of  France  or  Spain  ;  and  it  is 
the  king's  will  that  this  agreement  be  kept  in  all  things  so  far  as  in 
him  lies.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Fcedera.] 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Lenne  and  of  seven  other  cities  and 

towns. 
The  bailiffs  of  St.  Botolph  and  of  sixteen  other  towTis. 
Richard  de  Pembrigge  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden 
of  the  Cinque  Ports. 
[Ibid.] 


June  13.  To  the  prior  and  convent  of  Lenton.  Order  to  take  to  them  and 
Wincliester.  cancel  their  letters  patent  made  to  Richard  Raundes  the  king's  Serjeant, 
one  of  the  yeomen  of  his  kitchen,  concerning  his  maintenance  for  life 
in  the  said  priory,  and  to  cause  Thomas  Bulcote  one  of  the  clerks 
of  the  Kang's  Bench  to  have  that  maintenance  for  his  life,  making 
him  other  like  letters  patent  in  due  form  under  their  common  seal ; 
as  by  virtue  of  a  contract  between  the  said  Richard  and  Thomas 
it  is  agreed  that  the  said  Thomas  shall  have  the  estate  in  that 
maintenance  which  the  said  Richard  now  has  at  the  king's  command  ; 
and  at  the  prayer  of  the  said  Richard  the  king  has  given  licence, 
and  has  further  granted  of  his  favour  so  far  as  in  him  lies  that  the 
said  Thomas  shall  have  the  same  for  life.  By  p.s.  [2877 L] 

June  20.         William  Bryd  of  Hukkote  to  William  de  Brantjmgham.     Recog- 
Winchester.    nisance  for  2001.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Buckinghamshire. 


Memorandum  that  on  Tuesday  after  Trinity  this  year  at  Sprot- 
burgh  before  William  de  Fyncheden  and  his  fellows  guardians  of 
the  peace  in  the  Westrithing  co.  York,  by  virtue  of  a  writ  to  them 
addressed,  came  John  Fitz  William  knight,  and  found  mainpernors 
John  Sayville  knight,  Thomas  de  Reresby  knight,  John  de  Wodehall, 
William  Clarell,  John  de  Totehill,  and  John  Mapples  of  Rodirham, 
who  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  300/.  that  he  should  not  cause  nor 
procure  hurt  or  harm  to  John  de  Staynton  in  his  person,  as  may 
appear  by  the  return  of  the  said  writ  which  is  on  the  file  of  chancery 
for  this  year. 


45  EDWARD  111.  30!J 


1371.  Membrane  25d — cont. 

Charter  of  Richard  de  Stretton,  son  of  Walter  Oulyas  of  Stretton 
in  the  ('hiy  co.  Notynghaiu,  giving  with  warranty  to  Sir  WilHani  de 
Fulburne  and  8ir  John  de  Hayton  ehaphxins,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
all  his  lands,  rents  and  services  with  their  rights  and  appurtenances 
in  the  towns  of  Stretton,  Fenton  and  Lyttelburgh  co.  Xotyngham. 
Witnesses  :  John  Bcernes  then  mayor  of  London,  William  Haldeyn 
recorder  tliereof,  John  Pyt^l,  John  Organ,  Thomas  Wilteshire,  John 
Whissele,  William  Assheford.  Dat<'d  London,  Sunday  the  feast  of 
St.  Peter  and  St.  Paul  45  Edward  IIL 

Memoranduyn  of  acknowledgment,  30  June. 

Charter  indented  of  Robert  de  Beleknappe  and  John  Wroth  the 
younger,  granting  to  Adam  Fraunceys  citizen  of  London  the  manor 
of  Edelmeton  and  20  cartloads  of  brushwood  yearly  to  be  taken  in 
the  out  park  of  Enefeld  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford, 
which  manor  and  brushwood  were  sometime  of  William  de  Say 
knight,  to  hold  in  chief  of  the  king  during  the  said  Adam's  life,  with 
remainder  [after]  his  death  to  Adam  Fraunceys  the  younger,  and 
to  the  heirs  of  his  body,  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  Maud 
daughter  of  the  said  Adam  citizen  of  London  and  to  the  heirs  of  her 
body,  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  right  heirs  of  the 
said  Adam  citizen  of  London.  Witnesses  :  William  Halden,  John 
Bernes,  Henry  Frowyk,  Thomas  Frowyk,  John  Osekyn,  Lawrence 
de  Ware,  John  Buttirwyke,  Jordan  Elsjoig,  John  Goldyng  the  elder, 
William  Pymme.     Dated  Edelmeton,  8  July  44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  30  June  this  year. 

July  15.  Jolin  Doune  is  sent  to  the  abbot  of  Waverle,  to  take  such  main- 

Windsor,      tenance  in  that  house  as  John  Strav^oiton*  in  his  life  time  had  at  the 
king's  request.  By  p.s.  [28800.] 

Membrane  2M. 

Charter  of  John  Lovel  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to  Robert 
Holand  knight,  Hugh  Hopewas  clerk,  Robert  de  Londres  knight, 
William  Werfton  and  Hildebrand  Barre,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  his 
manors  of  Tychemerssh  co.  Norhampton,  Ministre  co.  Oxford, 
Elcoumbe  co.  Wiltesir,  Sparkeford  and  Upton  co.  Somerset,  the 
advowsons  of  churches  and  chapels  to  the  same  belonging,  with 
homages,  wards,  reliefs,  escheats,  rents,  services,  reversions,  liberties 
and  customs  whatsoever.  Witnesses  :  John  Daunteseye,  John 
Nowers,  John  Trillou,  Richard  Chamberlayn,  Robert  Hotot  knights. 
Dated  Axeford  co.  Wiltesir,  Thursday  after  St.  Barnabas  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Winchester, 
18  June. 

Assignment  of  dower  to  Isabel  who  was  wife  of  John  Husee  of  her 
said  husband's  lands  in  Berton  Sacy  co.  Suthampton,  there  made 
3  Januarv  44  Edward  III  by  John  Froille  the  escheator,  in  presence 
of  Richard  de  Colshull  clerk,  Hugh  Craan,  Roger  Colrithe,  John 
Budel,  Stephen  Carpenter ;  namely  5.^  acres  of  a  croft  called 
'  Parkescroft '  on  the  east  side  of  her  said  husband's  court  in  the 
said  town  containing  16^  acres,  wliich  portion  is  bounded  from  the 

*  In  the  warrant,  Henry  de  Stravynton. 


310  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1871.  Merhhrane  24d — cont. 

comer  of  the  garden  in  a  straiglit  lino  to  the  '  more  '  ;  in  the  east 
field  outside  tlie  south  gate  there  are  6  acres  extending  towards  the 
way  to  the  church,  whereof  4  acres  lying  on  the  east  side  are  assigned 
to  her  for  that,  three  of  them  suffice  not  to  make  a  third  part  ; 
between  the  cony  warren  and  the  hay  of  '  Parkescroft '  on  the  east 
side  are  11  acres  of  land,  whereof  .3|  acres  and  the  third  part  of  half 
an  acre  extending  towards  Clanehull  on  the  south  side  and  towards 
the  '  more  '  on  the  north  side  are  assigned  to  her  ;  and  3  acres  there 
lying  between  '  Coudrayeslond  '  on  either  side,  whereof  one  acre 
on  the  west  side  is  assigned  to  her  ;  4  acres  of  land  in  a  furlong  called 
'  Whithors  '  by  the  cony  warren,  whereof  1  J-  acre  lying  on  the  south 
side  is  assigned  to  her  ;  6  acres  in  a  furlong  called  Wynyerd,  whereof 
2  acres  on  the  south  side  are  assigned  to  her  ;  3  acres  1  rood  in  a 
furlong  called  Gorewey,  whereof  one  acre  on  the  north  side  is  assigned 
to  her ;  at  Whithors  10  acres  of  land  extending  southward  and 
northward,  whereof  3i-  acres  on  the  west  side  are  assigned  to  her  ; 
in  Havestane  forlong  3  acres,  whereof  one  acre  on  the  west  side  is 
assigned  to  her  :  and  6  acres  of  land  there  extending  towards  the  '  Ster- 
more  '  on  the  north  side,  whereof  2  acres  on  the  east  side  are  assigned  to 
her  ;  3  acres  in  Gorewey,  whereof  one  acre  on  the  east  side  is  assigned 
to  her  ;  in  '  Syngyngelond  '  are  6  acres,  whereof  2  acres  on  the  east 
side  are  assigned  to  her  ;  in  '  Strangelond  '  are  3  acres  of  land,  whereof 
one  acre  on  the  south  side  is  assigned  to  her  ;  in  '  Benelond  '  are 
4  acres  of  land,  for  which  2  acres  in  Havestane  forlong  bounded  on 
either  side  are  assigned  to  her  ;  and  11  acres  in  '  Benelond,'  for  which 
one  of  them  on  the  west  side  and  3  acres  in  '  Strangelond  '  bounded 
on  either  side  are  assigned  to  her  ;  at  Cokham  are  9  acres  of  land 
extending  towards  the  '  doune,'  whereof  3  acres  on  the  north  side  are 
assigned  to  her  ;  at  '  Suttonemark '  11  acres  of  land  extending 
towards  the  '  doune  '  and  next  Cokham  4  acres  of  land  extending 
eastwards  and  westwards,  whereof  5 acres  are  assigned  to  her,  namely 
the  said  4  acres  and  one  of  the  said  12  acres  on  the  west  side  ;  at 
'  Goselond  '  are  9  acres  of  land  extending  eastwards  and  westwards, 
whereof  3  acres  on  the  north  side  are  assigned  to  her  ;  at  '  Haydoune  ' 
are  10  acres  of  land  extending  eastwards  and  westwards,  and  4  acres 
of  land  extending  northwards  and  southwards,  at  '  Goselond esende  ' 

4  acres  of  land,  6  acres  in  the  Combe,  and  at  '  Abboteslond  '  4  acres, 
whereof  9^  of  the  said  10  acres  at  '  Haydoune  '  are  assigned  to  her  ; 
in  the  west  field  are  6  acres  in  the  '  Wodelond,'  Avhereof  2  acres  on 
the  east  side  are  assigned  to  her  ;  in  the  same  field  are  18  acres  of 
land  in  the.  Breche,  whereof  6  acres  on  the  south  side  are  assigned 
to  her  ;  in  '  Westbreche  '  are  8  acres  of  land,  for  which  4  acres  in 
Asshebury  bounded  on  either  side  are  assigned  to  her ;  and  in 
'  Westbreche  '  by  Asshebury  3  acres,  whereof  one  on  the  north  side 
is   assigned   to   her ;  in    '  Honemannestaple '    are    15   acres,    whereof 

5  acres  on  the  south  side  are  assigned  to  her  ;  in  '  Westbreche  '  10 
acres,  for  which  5  acres  in  '  Shephousforlong  '  are  assigned  to  her  ; 
in  the  same  furlong  by  '  Shephous  '  are  3  acres,  of  which  one  acre 
on  the  north  side  is  assigned  to  her  ;  upon  '  WhethuU  '  are  7  acres 
of  land,  and  4  acres  in  the  '  Hangyngelond,'  for  which  5  acres  called 
'  Longelond  '  are  assigned  to  her  ;  in  '  Danput  '  are  9  acres  of  land 
extending  towards  '  Langelond,'  whereof  3  acres  on  the  east  side 
are  assigned  to  her  ;  and  in  '  Danput '  6  acres  of  land,  whereof 
2  acres  on  the  east  side  are  assigned   to   her,  and  11  acres  there,  and 


45  EDWARD  III.  311 


1371.  Momhrane  24d — cont. 

one  other  by  itself,  whereof  4  acres  on  the  nortli  side  are  assigned 
to  lier  ;  at  Mordelcoinbe  are  G  acres  of  hind,  \vli(M'eof  2  acres  on  the 
west  side  are  assigned  to  her ;  at  '  Honemanlewe  '  are  12  acres, 
whereof  4  acres  on  the  north  side  arc  assigned  to  lier  ;  in  Stancheslee 
are  10  acres  of  hind,  whereof  2  acres  are  assigned  to  her  and  2  other 
acres  there  of  Elyng  land  lying  by  themselves  ;  in  Combe  are 
10  acres  in  one  parcel  extending  towards  '  Ekeneldcwey,'  in  another 
parcel  4  acres  of  land  extending  southwards  and  northwards,  in 
another  parcel  12  acres  extending  likewise,  6  acres  extending  east- 
wards and  westwards,  and  in  another  parcel  12  acres  extending 
eastwards  and  westwards,  and  at  Brokiioles  in  another  parcel  8  acres 
extending  southwards  and  northwards,  in  anotlier  parcel  there  are 
4  acres  of  land  extending  eastwards  and  westwards,  and  in  another 
10  acres  extending  eastwards  and  westwards,  whereof  tlie  said  parcel 
of  10  acres  extending  towards  '  Ekeneldewey  '  and  the  said  12  acres 
extending  southwards  and  northwards  are  assigned  to  her ;  at 
'  GlovT^lond  '  are  18  acres  extending  towards  '  Ekeneldewey,'  whereof 
6  acres  on  the  north  side  are  assigned   to   her  ;    at   '  Foulflode  '   are 

3  acres  of  land,  whereof  one  acre  on  the  west  side  is  assigned  to  her ; 
at  Lokhull  are  6  acres  of  land,  whereof  2  acres  on  the  east  side  are 
assigned  to  her  ;  at  '  Bredcnythe  '  are  6  acres  of  meadow,  whereof 
2  acres  on  the  east  side  are  assigned  to  her  ;  in  '  Longcraede  '  are 
Gacresof meadow, whereof  2 acres  on  the  west  side  are  assigned  to  her; 
and  2  acres  of  meadow  there,  and  4  at  Notlyng,  whereof  one  of  the 

4  acres  at  Notlyng  on  the  north  side  and  one  of  the  said  2  acres  at 
'  Kyngmede  '  (sic)  are  assigned  to  her  ;  and  there  is  pasture  there 
for  GOO  sheep  pertaining  to  the  land  aforesaid,  whereof  pasture  for 
200  sheep  is  assigned  to  her,  and  for  more  if  more  it  may  bear  ;  likewise 
of  13/.  lis.  Id.  of  rent  and  foldage  there  issuing  from  divers  tenants 
of  Bcrton  and  Newenton  4/.  lOs.  6|(Z.  is  assigned  to  her,  with  a  third 
part  of  the  tenants  and  their  services  ;  a  third  part  of  the  hall  on 
the  north  side  with  two  of  the  hall  doors  and  ingress  and  egress,  a 
chamber  at  the  north  end  of  the  hall  with  two  cellars  beneath,  a 
kitchen  with  an  oven  attached  to  the  bakehouse,  and  a  piece  of  ground 
to  be  enclosed  at  joint  costs  between  the  said  kitchen  and  hall 
from  the  north  corner  of  the  bakehouse  in  a  straight  line  to  the  hall, 
for  the  third  part  of  the  grange  the  north  porch  and  two  '  feldes  ' 
from  the  south  side  thereof,  and  from  the  north  side  of  the  said  porch 
the  gate  and  all  buildings  attached  and  adjoining  thereto  ;  of  the 
space  of  the  court  6  feet  in  breadth  from  the  north  side  of  the  said 
porch  in  a  straight  line  to  the  hay  and  the  ash  opposite  the  hall  to  be 
enclosed  at  joint  costs  :  a  tliird  part  of  the  garden  from  the  east 
corner  of  the  latrine  of  her  said  chamber  in  a  straight  line  to  the 
eastern  hay  thereof  to  be  enclosed  at  joint  costs,  and  in  a  corner 
piece  of  ground  of  the  said  garden  from  the  north  corner  of  the  bake- 
house to  the  close  of  the  said  dower  garden  likevvdse  to  be  enclosed, 
and  the  said  third  part  of  the  garden  extends  in  length  to  the  west 
gate  of  the  said  court  and  the  high  street ;  she  shall  have  a  third 
part  of  a  moiety  of  the  profit  of  the  agistment  of  '  Wydemor  '  when 
such  there  shall  be,  of  the  fishery,  hundred  and  mill,  and  a  third  part 
of  the  cony  warren,  so  that  she  bear  a  third  part  of  the  charge  and 
expense  of  the  said  hundred  and  mill ;  and  she  shall  have  the  easement 
of  a  lane  \vithout  the  south  gate  of  the  said  court  for  carrying  corn 
and  other  things  needful,  and  for  driving  her  cattle  to  and  from  the 


312 


CALENDAIt  01'  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  2id — conl. 

fields  ;  and  divers  rents  and  fees  are  ytsarly  paid  of  the  said  m^inor 
wiiereof  she  shall  Ix-ar  a  third  part,  namely  40s-.  to  the  h)rd  of  Coudray, 
40s.  to  Edmund  C'helreye,  20,9.  to  Walter  Haywode,  40s.  to  Roger 
Colrithe  and  13is-.  4(1.  to  the  bailiff  of  the  hundred  ;  total  charges 
7/.  136-.  4d. 

Charter  indented  of  Richard  Mallore  of  Westhaddon  knight, 
giving  with  warranty  to  John  de  H addon  the  king's serjeant  at  arms,  his 
heirs  and  assigns,  his  manor  in  Westhaddon,  with  lands,  woods, 
meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  waters,  ways,  paths,  mills,  wards, 
marriages,  reliefs,  heriots,  escheats,  rents  and  services  of  free  tenants 
and  neifs,  their  suits  and  all  that  goes  with  them,  to  hold  of  the  said 
Richard  and  his  heirs  for  ever,  doing  the  rents  and  services  due  and 
of  right  accustomed  to  the  chief  lords  of  the  fee,  and  rendering  yearly 
to  the  said  Richard  and  his  heirs  one  rose  at  Midsummer  during  the 
first  ten  years,  and  afterwards  20  marks  a  year  at  Michaelmas, 
Christmas,  Easter  and  Midsummer  by  even  portions,  power  being 
reserved  to  enter  and  hold  the  said  manor  in  his  former  estate  if  the 
said  rent  or  any  parcel  thereof  be  two  months  in  arrear.  Witnesses : 
John  Mallore,  Thomas  Murdak  knights,  John  Jsbury  lord  of  Watford, 
John  Mountagu,  Ralph  Paries,  John  V\^arde,  John  Knyght  of  West- 
haddon. Dated  Westhaddon,  Monday  the  morrow  of  Trinity 
45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Westminster,  29  June. 

June  29.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London  and  the  river 
Westminster.  Thames  and  in  the  port  of  Dovorre.  Order  to  suffer  William  Brewer 
chaplain  who  is  by  a  certain  pro  visor  impleaded  in  the  court  of  Rome 
concerning  his  benefice  it  is  said,  when  he  shall  arrive  at  any  of  those 
ports  for  the  purpose  of  crossing  the  sea,  to  pass  freely  without  let 
towards  the  said  court  taking  40s.  for  his  expenses  and  101.  by 
exchange,  any  commands  or  proclamations  to  the  contrary  notwith- 
standing, provided  he  shall  attempt  nought  which  may  tend  to  the 
prejudice  of  the  king  or  people. 

Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  for  the  said  William  made  under  a 
pain  of  100/.  by  John  Bays  and  James  Filz  James  of  Somerset, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  that  he  shall  do  or  prosecute  nought 
to  the  king's  prejudice. 

July  5.  John  Botild  to  Henry  de  Percy.     Recognisance  for  1001.,  to  be 

Westminster,  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Suffolk. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Membrane  2M. 
Writing  of  Gilbert  de  Wyghtresliamme  citizen  and  fishmonger  of 
London,  reciting  that  lately  speech  was  made  between  Joan  who 
was  wife  of  William  de  Wyghtresliamme  and  him  the  said  Gilbert 
that  she  should  demise  to  him  all  the  lands  rents  and  services  in  the 
parish  of  Wyghtresliamme  co.  Kent  which  were  sometime  of  the 
said  William  for  a  rent  of  30/.  yearly  payable  to  her  for  life,  by  reason 
of  which  speech  the  said  Gilbert  has  hitherto  by  her  sufferance 
occupied  the  same  and  taken  the  rents  and  profits  as  her  farmer  before 
indentures  or  other  writings  of  demise  were  made  between  them, 
and  before  covenants  and  securities  were  fully  and  finally  completed 
as  well  concerning  the  said  lands  on  his  part  as  for  the  possession 


45    EDWARD    III.  313 


1371.  Membrane  23d — cont. 

in  severalty  by  tlie  said  Joan  of  tlie  said  rent  on  her  ])art,  and  {^ranting 
that  he  the  said  Gilbert  has  never  chiiined  and  does  not  elaini  any 
estate  in  possession  of  the  premises  save  only  at  her  will,  to  wit  that 
it  would  be  lawful  for  her  at  will  to  remove  and  thrust  him  out 
therefrom  withoiit  wrong  or  gainsaying,  and  further  to  declare  the 
estate  of  the  said  Joan  surrendering  to  her  whatsoever  he  has  in 
possession  thereof,  willing  and  granting  that  he  will  never  hereafter 
make  any  claim  therein  by  reason  of  the  demise,  speech  or  occupation 
aforesaid.  Dated  W'yghtreshamme,  I  June  45  Edward  111. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  July. 

Indenture  made  between  Joan  who  was  wife  of  William  de 
Wgyhtreshamnie  and  (Jilbert  de  Wyghtreshamme  citizen  and  fish- 
monger of  London,  giving  to  the  said  (iilbert,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
all  tlie  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Wyghtreshamme  which  were 
sometime  of  the  said  William,  except  and  reserved  to  the  said  Joan 
the  hall,  chambers,  kitchen,  one  stable  and  the  gate  in  the  capital 
messuage,  a  right  of  way  to  any  of  the  said  houses,  two  crofts  lying 
between  the  common  pasture  called  the  Hamme  towards  the  west 
and  land  of  the  said  William  called  Morghenes  towards  the  east  the 
heads  abutting  northwards  on  the  high  street  and  extending  south- 
wards to  land  of  the  said  William,  and  except  a  piece  of  land  in 
Wyghtreshamme  marsh  sometime  of  Thomas  atte  Grove  between 
land  of  the  manor  of  Wyghtreshamme  towards  the  north  and  the 
Flete  towards  the  south,  to  hold  of  the  chief  lords  rendering  to  the  said 
Joan  yearly  during  her  life  and  paying  in  Wyghtreshamme  church 
2Sl.  13s.  at  Midsummer,  Michaelmas  and  the  Purification  by  even 
portions,  power  being  reserved  to  the  said  Joan  to  distrain  for  arrears, 
and  to  enter  again  and  hold  the  premises  in  her  former  estate  if  the 
rent  be  three  months  in  arrear.  Dated  Wyghtreshamme,  16  June 
45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  5  July. 

Indenture  witnessing  that  Gilbert  de  Wyghtreshamme  citizen 
and  fishmonger  of  London  has  given  to  Joan  who  was  wife  of  William 
de  Wyghtreshamme  for  her  life  all  the  chambers  at  the  \vest  head 
of  the  hall  of  the  capital  messuage  in  Wyghtreshamme  which  was 
sometime  of  the  said  William,  except  only  one  solar  there,  and  has 
given  her  two  chambers  and  one  stable  at  the  west  end  of  a  house 
together  built  called  the  '  Longhous  '  in  the  said  messuage,  \\dth 
easement  for  her  and  all  her  household  to  do  their  business  whatsoever 
as  well  in  the  hall  as  in  the  kitchen  thereof,  free  ingress  and  egress 
by  the  gate  thereof,  and  a  right  of  way  to  any  of  the  said  houses, 
also  sufficient  estover  of  wood  and  brushwood  to  be  taken  at  her  will 
at  all  times  of  the  year  in  all  his  woods  and  hays  in  Wyghtreshamme, 
with  free  ingress  and  egress  to  carry  and  burn  the  same  in  the 
messuages  whatsoever  where  she  shall  dwell  in  the  town  of  Wyghtres- 
hamme for  all  manner  of  needs,  wdthout  impeachment  of  waste, 
so  that  after  her  deatli  the  same  shall  revert  wholly  to  the  said  Gilbert. 
Dated  W^vghtreshamnie,  24  June  45  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Gilbert,  5  July. 

Indenture  witnessing  that  Gilbert  de  Wyghtreshamme  citizen  and 
fishmonger  of  London  has  given  to  Peter  Wyhnot  and  his  assigns 
during    the   said    Peter's    life    two    crofts    and    a    piece    of   land  in 


314  CALENDAR  OP  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  23d — cont. 

Wyghtroshamme  (described  as  above),  to  hold  of  the  chief  lords  of 
the  fee,  with  romaiuder  after  the  said  Peter's  death  to  Joan  who  was 
wife  of  William  de  Wyghtreshamme  and  to  her  assigns  to  hold  as 
aforesaid  during  her  life,  so  that  after  her  death  the  premises  shall 
wholly  revert  to  the  said  Gilhert,  his  heirs  and  assigns.  Dated 
Wyghtreshamme,  24  June  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Gilbert,  5  July. 

Charter  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  William  de  Wyghtreshamme, 
giving  to  Gilbert  de  Wyghtreshamme  citizen  and  fishmonger  of 
London,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  all  the  lands  and  tenements  in 
Wyghtreshamme  excepted  and  to  her  reserved  in  an  indenture  of 
demise  by  her  made  to  the  said  Gilhert  of  the  lands  in  the  said  parish 
which  were  of  the  said  William,  namely  the  gate,  hall,  chambers, 
kitchen  and  stable  of  the  capital  messuage,  a  right  of  way  to  any  of 
the  same,  two  crofts  and  one  piece  of  land  {described  as  above). 
Dated  Wyghtreshamme,  20  June  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  July. 

July  4.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  ports  of  Dovorre  or  Sandewyc. 

Westminster.  Order  to  suffer  brother  John  Benet  a  monk  of  Kirkestede  abbey 
of  the  Cistercian  order,  who  with  the  king's  licence  is  about  to  journey 
towards  the  court  of  Rome,  to  pass  without  let  towards  those  parts 
in  one  of  the  said  ports  for  declaration  of  certain  matters  touching  his 
conscience,  with  two  yeomen  and  one  horse,  taking  100s.  for  his  expenses 
and  201.  in  exchange,  any  command  to  them  addressed  to  the  contrary 
notwithstanding,  the  said  John  having  found  in  chancery  Henry 
Hasty  and  Thomas  Claymond  of  Lincolnshire  his  mainpernors,  who 
have  mainperned  for  liim  and  the  said  yeomen  under  a  pain  of  500/. 
that  they  shall  attempt  nought  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  any 
of  his  subjects.  By  bill  of  privy  seal. 

June  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order  at  his  peril  on  sight  of  these  presents 
Westminster,  forthwith  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  on  the  king's  behalf 
forbidding  any  man  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition  to  lay  or  cause 
to  be  laid  any  impost  or  charge  upon  wools,  woolfells  or  hides  over 
and  above  the  customs  and  subsidies  granted  to  the  king  thereupon, 
nor  to  demand  or  take  auglit  thereof  over  and  above  the  custom 
and  subsidy  aforesaid  ;  as  in  the  parliament  last  holden  at  West- 
minster and  in  the  great  council  at  Winchester,  at  the  petition  of  the 
commons  of  England  presented  in  the  said  parliament,  it  was  ordered 
and  agreed  that  no  such  impost  or  charge  shall  be  laid  thereupon 
without  the  assent  of  parliament,  and  that  any  so  laid  shall  be  utterly 
revoked  and  annulled ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will  that  this  order  be 
duly  put  in  execution.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Fcedera.] 

The  like  to  singular  the  sheriffs  throughout  England. 

[Ibid.] 

Memorandum  that  on  10  July  this  year  an  information  touching 
the  right  of  the  late  Queen  Philippa  in  the  county  of  Hanou  received 
of  the  bishop  of  Liege  and  his  privy  council  and  the  lord  of  Shonevorst 
was  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster  by  Master  Nicholas  Chaddesden 
the  king's  clerk  and  envoy  despatched  in  that  behalf  delivered 
to  Richard  Lescrope  knight  the  treasurer  by  the  hands  of  Robert 
de  Thorpe  the  chancellor  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  in  the  treasury. 


45  EDWARD  III.  315 


-jor?-!  Membrane  23(Z — ccmt. 

June  12.  To  Godfrey  Folejanibe  and  his  fellows,  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer 
Winchester,  in  Lancashire.  Order,  for  paiticular  causes,  without  delay  to  send 
into  chancery  under  their  .seals  all  inc^uisitions  now  or  hereafter  taken 
whereby  William  de  C'horlegh  i.s  or  shall  be  before  them  indicted 
in  that  county  for  any  trespasses,  deceits,  grievances  and  evildoings, 
felonies  only  excepted,  also  this  writ. 

* 

Membrane  22(1. 

Charter  of  Henry  de  Chilterne,  giving  with  warranty  to  Edmund  de 
Gessinge  and  Katherine  his  wife,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  his  manor 
of  Bretewell  in  Kaisho  and  Watford,  \\ith  lands,  rents,  meadows, 
feedings,  pastures  etc.  Witnesses  :  Sir  John  Chayne  knight,  William 
de  Suanlond,  William  de  Langelegh,  William  de  Wodewyk,  John 
de  Goldyngton.  Dated  la  More,  Sunday  before  St.  George 
45  Edward  111. 

Memoranchim  of  acknowledgment,  8  July. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  tlie  foregoing  charter  of  the  manor  of 
Brute  well  in  Caysho  and  Watford,  upon  condition  that  Edmund  de 
Gyssynge  and  Katherine  his  wife,  their  executors  or  assigns,  shall 
peaceably  hold  and  enjoy  the  premises  from  Michaelmas  45  Edward  III 
for  a  term  of  20  years  without  being  molested  by  Henry  de 
Chilterne,  his  heirs,  executors  or  assigns,  by  Maud  de  Chilterne  his 
mother,  or  by  any  other  in  their  name,  and  that  tlie  said  Henry  shall 
well  and  truly  keep  the  covenants  contained  in  an  indenture  of  lease 
tc  them  made  by  him  for  the  said  term.  Dated  the  More  in  Ryk- 
meresworth,  Wednesday  after  the  Translation  of  St.  Tliomas 
45  Edward  III.     French, 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Edmund,  8  July. 

Indenture  of  lease  with  warranty  granted  by  Henry  de  Chilterne 
to  Edmund  de  Gessinge  and  Katherine  his  wife  and  to  their  heirs 
and  assigns  for  a  term  of  20  years  from  Michaelmas  45  Edward  ill 
of  his  manor  of  Bretewell  in  Kaysho  and  Watford  with  lands,  rents, 
meadows,  pastures  etc.  as  well  of  neifs  as  of  free  tenants,  rendering 
for  his  farm  10  marks  a  year  during  the  first  four  years  and  afterwards 
12  marks  a  year  ;  the  lessor  shall  find  them  '  housebote,  ferbote  ' 
and  '  heybote  '  great  trees  and  timber  excepted  unless  it  be  by 
appointment  to  repair  the  houses,  he  shall  repair  the  said  houses  at 
the  entry  of  the  lessees,  and  they  shall  maintain  them  ;  the  lessees 
shall  render  20-5.  a  year  and  \lb.  of  pepper  to  the  chief  lord  of  the 
fee  for  all  services,  tallages,  arrears  etc.,  and  if  distrained  in 
the  premises  or  troubled  by  reason  of  any  service  or  arrears  allowance 
shall  be  made  in  their  farm  for  their  costs  and  expenses  ;  if  their 
said  farm  be  in  arrear  for  one  half  year  the  lessor  or  liis  attorney  may 
for  ever  enter  upon  the  premises  and  the  moveable  goods  and  chattels 
thereupon  found.  Witnesses  :  William  Swanlond,  Wilham  de 
Langelegh,  William  de  Wodewyk,  John  de  Goldygton.  Dated  the 
More,  Wednesday  after  the  Translation  of  St.  Tliomas  the  year  above 
mentioned.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Edmund  and  Henry, 
8  July. 


316 


CALENDAll    OF    CLOSE    110LL8. 


1371. 


Membrane  22d — cont. 


June  17.  To  the  .sheriff  of   Kent.      Order  to  cau.se  Thomas    do  Apuldrefeld 

VVestminstor.  knight  ot"  the  .shire  to  have  of  the  commons  of  the  county,  except 
citie.s  and  boroughs  which  sent  citizens  and  lnirges.ses  to  the  great 
council  summoned  at  Winchester  on  Monday  in  the  octaves  of  Trinity 
last,  52-9.  for  his  expen.ses  in  coming  to  the  said  council,  there  abiding 
and  thence  returning,  namely  4.s.  a  day  for  13  days. 

The  following  knights  of  the  shire  have  the  like  writs  : 

Surrey.     William  de  Cobeham  44s-.  for  11  days. 

Sus.sex.     John  Waleys  446'.  for  11  days. 

The     county     of     Suthampton.       Bernard     Brocas     36s.      for 
{)  days. 

Wiltesir.     Lawrence  de  Sancto  Martino  44a'.  for  11  days. 

Somerset.     John  Beauchamj)  of  Lillesdon  52*.  for  13  days. 

Dorset.     \V^alter  Perle  60s.  for  15  days. 

Devon.     Roger  Newent  60s.  for  15  days. 

Cornwall.     John  de  Trenewyth  76s.  for  19  days. 

Gloucest(ushire.     John  Poyntz  52s.  for  13  days. 

Herefordshire.     Thomas  Chaundos  60s.  for  15  days. 

Salop.     Robert  de  Kendale  68s.  for  17  days. 

Staffordshire.     John  de  Perton  60s.  for  15  days. 

Worcestershire.     Richard  Fyton  52s.  for  13  days. 

Oxfordshire.     Roger  de  Cotesford  44s.  for  11  days. 

Berkshire.     John  Foxle  44s.  for  II  days. 

Bedfordshire.     Thomas  Reynes  60s.  for  15  days. 

Bukinghamshire.     Fulk  de  Bermyngeham  60s.  for  15  days. 

Norhamptonshire.     Thomas  de  Preston  60s.  for  15  days. 

Roteland.     Lawrence  Hauberk  68s.  for  17  days. 

Warwickshire.     John  Peyto  60s.  for  15  days. 

Leycestershire.     William  Flaumville  68s.  for  17  days. 

Notynghamshire.     Roger  Beler  765.  for  19  days. 

Derbj-^shire.     Godfrey  Folejambe  76s.  for  19  days. 

Lincolnshire.     John  Paynel  of  Queryngton  76s.  for  19  days. 

Yorkshire.     Robert  de  Rouclyf  4L  4s.  for  21  days. 

Northumberland.     Alan  de  Heton  100s.  for  25  days. 

Westmorland.     Hugh  de  Louthre  100s.  for  25  days. 

Cumberland.     Gilbert  de  Curwenne  100s.  for  25  days. 

Lancashire.     John  de  Ipre  41.  4s.  for  21  days. 

Norffolk.     Edmund  de  Thorp  68s.  for  17  days. 

Suffolk.     Roger  Boys  60s.  for  15  days. 

Cambridgeshire.     John  Chene  60s.  for  15  days. 

Huntyndonshire.     Nicholas  de  Styuecle  60s.  for  15  days. 

Essex.     Robert  Marny  60s.  for  15  days. 

Hertfordshire.     Thomas  de  Fitlyng  52s.  for  13  days. 

Middlesex.     John  Pekbrugge  52s.  for  13  days. 
[Pryrme,  Parliamentary  Writs,  iv.  p.  289.] 


June  17.         To  the  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Canterbury.     Like  order  to  cause 
Winchester.    Edmund  Home  citizen  of  the  said  city  to  have  of  the  commonalty 
thereof  26s.  for  iiis  expenses  coming  to  the  said   parliament  (sic)  etc., 
namely  2s.  a  day  for  13  days. 

The  following  citzens  and  burgesses  have  the  like  writs  : 
Rochester.     Richard  BrounynghuU  citizen  26s.  for  13  days. 
Suthwerk.     Thomas  Dane  burgess  22s.  for  11  days. 
Cicestre.     John  Wyn  citizen  225.  for  11  days. 


45   EDWARD   TTT.  317 


1371.  Membrane  22d — cmi. 

Winchester.     Steplien  Hay  in  citizen  18.s.  for  9  days. 
New  iSaruni.     Rol)ort  Bont  citizen  22.9.  for  11  days. 
{Ibid.  p.  292,  omitting  Rochester.} 

Membrane  lid. 
Indenture  made  between  the  king  of  tlie  one  part  and  Thomas 
Beaiipyne  and  Richard  Hanhain  of  the  other  part,  being  a  lease  for 
three  years  from  Michaehnas  next  of  the  subsidy  in  Somerset,  Dorset 
and  Gloucestershire  upon  cloths  for  sale  granted  to  the  king  by  the 
lords  and  commons  of  the  realm  for  release  for  the  forfeiture  of  alnage 
thereupon  laid  of  old  time,  rendering  to  the  king  152/.  a  year  at  the 
quinzaines  of  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  etc.  {as  above, 
p.  89)  taking  for  their  pains  in  that  behalf  to  the  king's  profit  the 
third  part  of  forfeited  cloths  ;  and  the  said  farmers  shall  from  time 
to  time  have  commissions  and  writs  of  chancery  as  many  as  they  shall 
need  in  aid  of  the  collection  of  the  said  subsidy,  paying  in  the  hanaper 
for  the  seals  of  those  first  issued,  provided  that  they  pay  for  the 
others  as  others  of  the  people.  Dated  Westminster,  24  June. 
French. 

By   mainprise   of   John   Wodehouses   of  Derbyshire   and   William 
Canynges  of  Gloucestershire. 

Like  indentures  are  made  to  the  following  persons  : 

Wiltesir.  Wilham  Wyther  of  Dorchestre,  for  three  years  from 
Michaelmas  last,  rendering  64?.  a  year  and  taking  the  third 
part  of  forfeitures.  Dated  Westminster,  2  October.  French. 
Mainpernor  :  Robert  de  Aston  knight  of  Gloucestershire. 
Devon  and  Cornewaille.  John  Webber  for  one  year  from 
2.3  November  last,  rendering  IOO5.  a  year  and  taking  the  moiety 
of  forfeitures.  Dated  Westminster,  1  December.  French. 
Mainpernors :  William  Gerveys  and  Thomas  Webber  of 
Devonshire. 

June  12.  To  the  collectors  of  the  customs  upon  wool,  woolfells  and  hides  in 
Westminster,  the  port  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull.  Order,  if  any  impost  or  charge 
has  been  laid  upon  wool,  woolfells  and  hides  brought  to  the  king's 
staple  in  that  port  over  and  above  the  custom  and  subsidy  formerly 
granted  to  the  king  thereupon,  to  cause  the  same  to  be  altogether 
revoked  and  annulled,  demanding  and  taking  no  subsidy  thereof 
over  and  above  the  customs  and  subsidies  aforesaid,  and  suffering 
none  to  be  by  others  demanded  or  taken  contrary  to  the  ordinance  ; 
as  in  the  parliament  last  holden  at  Westminster  and  in  the  great 
council  at  Winchester,  at  the  petition  of  the  commons  of  England 
in  the  said  parliament  presented,  it  was  ordered  and  agreed  that  no 
impost  or  charge  should  be  thereupon  laid  over  and  above  the  said 
custom  and  subsidy  without  the  assent  of  parliament.         By  K.  and  C. 

\Fmdera.] 

The  like  to  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  ports  of  Newcastle  upon 
Tvne  and  London,  and  in  nine  other  ports. 
\lbid.] 

Membrane  20d. 
Charter  of  John  Olyve  the  younger  and  Thomas  son  and  heir  of 
John  Olyve  the  elder  of    Essex,  giving  with  \\arranty  to  William 
Baldewyn   '  sadeler,'  John  de  Wentbrigge  and  Thomas  atte  Wode, 


318 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  20(1 — cont. 

their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  their  lands  and  rents  with  houses,  gardens, 
meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  waters,  ways,  paths,  ditehes,  hays  etc. 
which  they  had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Kicliard  atte  Water  in 
the  towns  and  parishes  of  Westminster  and  Eye  co.  Middlesex. 
Witnesses  :  Richard  Rook,  Roger  de  Sudbury,  Thomas  Chese,  Robert 
de  Hakebourne,  William  Brenge,  Thomas  atte  Rythe,  John  Lorymero. 
Dated  Westminster,  Wednesday  after  St.  Leonard  42  Edward  III, 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  July  this  year. 

Writing  of  John  Olyvc  the  younger  and  Thomas  son  and  heir  of 
John  Olyve  the  elder  of  Essex,,  being  a  (juitclaim  with  warranty 
to  William  Baldewyn  '  sadeler,'  John  de  Wentbrigge  and  Thomas 
atte  \\'ode,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services 
with  houses,  gardens,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  waters,  ways, 
hays,  paths,  ditches  etc.  which  the  said  William,  John  de  Wentbrigge 
and  Thomas  atte  Wodc  lately  had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  them 
the  said  John  and  Thomas  Olyve  in  the  towns  and  parishes  of 
Westminster  and  Eye  co.  Middlesex.  Witnesses  :  Thomas  Chese, 
Richard  Rook,  Roger  de  Sudbury,  Robert  de  Hakbourne,  Thomas 
atte  Rithe.  Dated  London,  Friday  before  the  Translation  of  St. 
Thomas  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  July. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Heigham,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Dame 
Elizabeth  de  Aspale,  William  de  Ingham  parson  of  Stonham  AntegajTie 
and  John  Harneys  of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  sometime  of 
Sir  John  de  Aspale  in  the  towns  of  Great  Cressyngham,  North- 
pikenham,  Hildeborgworth,  Swafham  and  Walton,  the  advowson 
of  Leneford  church  co.  Norffolk,  and  the  manor  of  Hogeston  co, 
Middlesex,     Dated   Stonham   aforesaid,   Monday   after  St.   Margaret 

44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  July  this  year, 

W^riting  of  William  de  Ronham  parson  of  Sprouton,  William  de 
Ingham  parson  of  Stonham  Antegayne  and  John  Harneys,  being  a 
quitclaim  to  Dame  Elizabeth  de  Aspale  of  all  the  lands,  rents  and 
services  sometime  of  Sir  John  de  Aspale  in  the  town  (sic)  of  Great 
CressjTigham,  Northpekenham,  Huldeborgworth,  Swafham  and 
W^alton,  the  advowson  of  Leneford  church  co.  Norfolk  and  the  manor 
of  Hogeston  co.  Middlesex.  Dated  Stonham  aforesaid,  Monday 
the  morrow  of  Trinity  45  Edward  III. 

31cmorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  July, 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Ednesore  citizen  and  skinner  of  London, 
being  a  quitclaim  to  William  de  Stoke  of  all  right  by  reason  of  a  statute 
merchant  to  him  the  said  Robert  published  by  John  de  Knapwell 
of  London  or  otherwise  in  all  the  lands  which  the  said  William  had 
of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  the  said  John  in  the  town  of  Bastelden 
CO.  Berks.     Dated  London,  Thursday  after  St.  Peter  and  St.   Paul 

45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  July, 

Writing  of  William  Devorois  knight,  granting  to  Sir  Thomas 
Hakeluyt,  Master  Thomas  Lexham,  Master  Richard  de  la  Barre, 
Sir  Adam  Esgar,  Sir  ]^oger  de  Withynton  canons  of  Hereford  church, 


4r)   EDWARD    TTT.  319 


1371.  MemJjrane  20(1— cont. 

Sir  John  de  Bridwodc,  Sir  James  dc  Wettenluille  clerks  and  Nicholas 
Wyke,  and  to  their  heirs  for  ever,  tlie  reversion  of  the  manor  of 
Nether  Heyton  co.  Salop,  now  hekl  l)y  John  de  Fallesleye  for  his  life 
and  one  year  longer  with  reversion  to  the  said  William.  Witnesses  : 
Phfili])]  Holgote,  lloger  Paitrieh,  Thomas  Seete,  John  de  Lonteleye, 
Robert  Aleyn.  Datecl  Monday  after  St.  Peter  and  St.  Paul  45  Edward 
III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  July. 

Indenture  of  covenants  made  between  Sir  William  Deverois  knight 
of  the  one  part  and  Sir  Thomas  Hakeluyt,  Master  Thomas  Lex  ham, 
Master  Richard  de  la  Barre,  Sir  Adam  ]<lsgar,  Sir  Roger  de  Wythynton 
canons  of  Hereford  elnirch,  Sir  John  de  Bridwode,  Sir  James  de 
Wettenhulle  clerks,  Nicholas  Wyke  and  John  de  Fallesleye  of  the  other 
part,  reciting  a  grant  made  by  the  said  William  to  the  said  canons, 
clerks  and  Nichohis  and  to  their  l)eirs  of  the  reversion  of  the  manor 
of  Nether  Heyton,  now  held  by  the  said  John  de  Fallesleye  for  his 
life  and  one  year  longer  with  reversion  to  the  grantor,  which  grant 
was  made  by  attornment  of  the  said  tenant  and  with  his  assent  and 
shall  be  enrolled  in  chancery,  upon  condition  that  the  said  tenant  shall 
surrender  his  estate  to  the  said  canons,  clerks  and  Nicholas,  and  that 
before  the  Assumption  next  they  shall  grant  the  said  manor  to  the 
said  tenant  and  Margaret  his  wife  for  their  lives  and  to  their  executors 
and  assigns  for  three  years  longer,  with  remainder  to  the  said  Sir 
William  and  his  heirs  for  ever  if  he  be  alive,  otherwise  to  his  heirs  in 
fee  ;  and  whereas  Sir  William  is  bound  to  the  said  John  de  Fallesleye 
by  bond  upon  certain  conditions  contained  in  a  defeasance  thereof, 
which  conditions  being  fulfilled  the  bond  shall  be  delivered  again 
to  Sir  William  and  a  new  bond  shall  be  by  him  made  upon  like 
conditions,  to  bear  date  after  the  grant  of  the  said  manor  to  be 
made  as  aforesaid  to  the  said  John  and  Margaret,  and  after  they 
have  taken  an  estate  therein  Sir  William  shall  confirm  their  estate 
with  warranty,  and  in  case  when  the  ancient  deeds  are  viewed  there 
shall  be  be  need  to  amend  the  deeds  to  be  made.  Sir  William  shall 
cause  them  to  be  amended,  to  bear  the  same  force  and  matter  herein 
contained,  and  if  the  reversion  be  not  to  him  but  to  another  person, 
he  shall  cause  such  person  to  grant  the  same  to  the  said  canons, 
clerks  and  Nicholas,  as  he  ought  to  do  ;  and  \\hen  all  covenants  shall 
be  performed  on  either  side,  the  said  John  dc  Fallesleye  wills  that 
a  recognisance  for  40  marks  made  to  him  in  the  Common  Bench  by 
Sir  William  shall  be  annulled,  and  he  the  said  John  will  make  an 
acquittance  thereof,  either  party  binding  himself,  his  heirs  and 
executors  in  lOOL  for  true  performance  of  these  covenants.  Dated 
London  {as  (he  last).  The  said  covenants  to  be  performed  before 
the  Assumption  next.     French. 

Memorandtim  of  acknowledgment  as  well  by  the  said  William  as 
by  John  Bridwode,  John  dc  Fallesleye  and  Nicholas  Wyke,  7  July. 

Membrane  lOcZ. 

July  10.  To  Thomas  bishop  of  Durham.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Robert 

Westminster,  de  Fandon  and  Sibyl  his  wife,  to  cause  full  and  speedy  justice  to  be 

done    them    touching    the    grievances     and     extortions     hereinafter 

rehearsed,  kno\\"ing  assuredly  that  if  a  loud  complaint  shall  a  second 

time  come  to  the  king's  ears  he  will  lay  to  his  hands  and  aid  them 


320 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371. 


Membrane  19d — corU. 


July  15. 
Westminster. 


July  18. 
Westminster. 


June  18. 
Winchester. 


in  that  behalf  ;  as  by  their  complaint  is  shewn  the  king  that  on 
Wednesday  after  the  Exaltation  of  Holy  Cross  last  William  de 
Meneville  the  bishop's  sheriff  of  Durham  by  colour  of  his  office  took 
of  his  malice  and  carried  away  certain  goods  and  chattels  of  the  said 
Robert  found  at  Durham  to  the  value  of  401.,  imprisoned  the  said  Sibyl 
keeping  her  in  prison  until  he  nuide  fine  w  ith  the  said  William  by  40^.  to 
have  her  deliverance,  and  until  Master  Peter  de  Stapelton  her  brother 
gave  his  bond  in  40/.  that  neither  the  said  Robert  and  Sibyl  nor  any 
other  in  their  name  shoukl  prosecute  any  suit  to  the  king  and  council 
by  reason  of  the  said  grievances  and  extortions,  and  that  though 
they  have  many  times  sued  \^ith  the  bishop  and  his  council  to  have 
amends  for  them  the  bishop,  considering  not  the  same  but  rather 
consenting  thereto,  has  hitlierto  taken  no  heed  to  do  them  justice, 
^\■herefore  they  have  prayed  the  king  for  remedy  ;  and  the  king  is 
bound  to  render  justice  to  all  and  singular  the  people  of  his  realm. 

By  K.  and  C. 

To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  part  of  Dovorre.  Order,  upon 
the  petition  of  Master  William  PolgrujTi,  to  suffer  him  with  one  clerk 
of  his  and  one  horse  freely  to  pass  in  that  port  without  let  towards 
the  court  of  Rome,  taking  6O5.  for  his  expenses  and  one  letter  of 
exchange  of  40/.,  any  command  to  them  addressed  to  the  contrary 
notwithstanding  ;  as  he  has  prayed  the  king's  licence  to  pass  thither 
in  order  to  prosecute  and  defend  his  business  there,  and  Robert  de 
Wyggeleye  parson  of  Wotton  and  John  Philipot  of  London,  appearing 
in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  for  him  either  of  them  under 
a  pain  of  100/.,  that  neither  he  nor  his  said  clerk  shall  attempt  aught 
that  may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  realm  or  of  any  other 
therein.  By  p.s. 

Master  William  de  Polgruyn  parson  of  Ilfricombe  to  Robert  de 
Wyggele  parson  of  Wotton  and  John  Phelipot  of  London.  Recog- 
nisance for  200/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Devon. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order  on  sight  of  these  presents  to  cause 
proclamation  to  be  made  in  singular  the  fairs,  markets,  hundreds 
etc.  in  his  bailiwick,  within  liberties  and  without,  on  the  king's  behalf 
forbidding  any  merchant  or  other  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition 
after  Michaelmas  next  in  buying,  selling  or  otherwise  secretly  or 
openly  to  receive  or  pay  any  money  of  the  coin  of  Scotland  or  of  other 
foreign  lands,  or  any  other  money  save  the  king's  money  of  his  own 
coinage,  upon  pain  of  forfeiture  of  such  money,  but  that  all  merchants 
and  others  having  moneys  of  the  coinage  of  Scotland  or  other  foreign 
lands  shall  under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof  bring  the  same  from  time 
to  time  to  the  king's  exchanges  for  buUion  and  not  otherwise,  causing 
them  there  to  be  changed  and  delivered  ;  as  in  the  parliament  last 
holden  at  Westminster,  considering  how  that  the  money  of  England, 
gold  and  silver,  is  daily  impaired  by  reason  of  divers  other  moneys 
of  far  less  price,  weight  and  value,  and  is  continually  drawn  and 
carried  out  of  the  realm,  with  the  consent  and  by  advice  of  the  council 
the  king  made  order  that  after  JNIichaelmas  next  no  money  of  the  coin 
of  Scotland  or  of  other  foreign  lands,  nor  any  but  his  gold  and  silver 
money  of  his  own  coinage  shall   have  currency  in  England,  nor    be 


45  EDWARD  III.  321 


1371.  Membrane  IQd — cont. 

received  or  delivered  secretly  or  ojienly  in  buying,  selling  or  othennso 
in  markets,  fairs  or  in  inns  or  elsewhere,  but  only  for  bullion,  under 
pain  of  forfeiture  of  such  money,  whereof  one  moiety  shall  go  to  the 
king,  the  other  to  whosoever  else  finding  such  money  will  sue  for  the 
king  in  that  behalf  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will  that  this  ordinance  bo 
observed.  By  K.  and  G. 

[Foedera.] 

The  like  to  singular  the  sheriffs  throughout  England, 

[Ibid.] 

July  19,  Robert*  de  Kendale  knight  to   the  king.     Recognisance  for  200 

Westminster,  marks  payable  by  instalments  ;  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Salop. 

This  recognisance  was  amended,  as  appears  in  a  memorandum  enrolled 
upon  this  roll. 

Writing  of  Oliver  son  and  heir  of  John  son  of  Robert  de  Ingham, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Adam  de  Sancto  Ivone  citizen 
of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  his  messuage  of  Stebenhethe 
called  the  Mote,  with  all  lands,  gardens,  pastures,  fish  ponds,  dovecots 
etc.  thereto  pertaining  sometime  of  Edmund  Crepyn.  Witnesses  : 
Adam  Fraunceys,  William  de  Haldene,  John  Piel,  John  de 
Chichestre,  John  Pountfret.  Dated  London,  Wednesday  the 
feast  of  St.  Gregory  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  24  July. 

July  29  .        William  de  Hopton  to  Robert  de  Denton  chaplain.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  20/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Salop. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

July  14.  To   the   sheriff    of    Devon.      Order,   on   the  petition  of    William 

Westminster.  Rakerncford,  to  stay  the  taking  of  his  body  by  mainprise  of  John 
Plymmouth  and  Roger  Malemaker,  Simon  Clerc  and  John  Milton 
of  London  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  John  Coulyng  and  Dionisia 
his  wife  are  impleading  him  before  the  king's  justices  for  an  alleged 
trespass,  that  the  king  has  ordered  the  sheriff  to  take  him  wherever 
found  in  his  bailiwick  so  as  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  at  a 
set  day  in  the  writ  de  judicio  contained  to  answer  to  the  plaintiffs, 
for  that  the  sheriff  returned  that  the  defendant  had  nothing  in  that 
bailiwick  whereby  he  might  be  attached,  shewing  also  that  he  is  ready 
so  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  John  Plym- 
mouth and  Roger,  Simon  and  John  Milton,  have  mainperned  in 
chancery  under  a  pain  of  20  marks  to  have  him  before  the  said 
justices  on  the  aforesaid  day. 

Memorandum  that  on  Sunday  27  July  45  Edward  III  at  West- 
minster in  the  small  hall  towards  the  king's  water  mill  there,  in 
presence  of  the  king,  of  Robert  de  Thorp  the  chancellor,  Richard 
Lescrope  the  treasurer,  Nicholas  de  Carreu  keeper  of  the  privy  seal 
and  others  of  the  council,  William  de  W^ykeham  bishop  of  Winchester 
appearing  in  person  surrendered  into  the  king's  hands   the  manor 

*  The  name  Robert  is  written  over  an  erasure. 

Qr21 


322  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  I9d — cont. 

of  Wcndovere  co.  Bukyngham  which  the  said  bishop  lately  acquired 
of  Robert  Fyenles  with  the  king's  money  to  the  king's  use,  making 
a  quitclaim  thereof  to  the  king,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 

Oct.  12.  John  de  Padbury  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Rameseye, 

Westminster,  to  take  such  maintenance  in  that  house  as  Richard  de  Brome  deceased 
had  at  the  king's  command. 

Memorandum  that  on  25  July  in  the  45th  year  of  his  reign  the  king 
by  letters  patent  committed  to  Robert  de  Kendale  and  Maud  his 
wife  the  wardship  of  all  the  lands  of  Thomas  Rous  decea.sed,  which 
were  in  his  hands  for  particular  causes  in  the  said  letters  contained, 
together  with  the  forfeiture  of  the  marriage  of  Juliana  daughter  and 
heir  of  the  said  Thomas,  who  being  within  age  and  in  the  king's 
wardship  was  ravished  and  married  without  his  licence,  and  all  things 
thereto  pertaining,  and  all  other  profits  whatsoever  to  the  said 
,  forfeiture  belonging,  paying  for  the  same  at  the  exchequer  400  marks 

only  at  set  terms,  under  a  condition  for  defeasance  of  a  recognisance 
for  400  marks  by  the  said  Robert  made  in  the  exchequer,  and  of 
another  recognisance  for  200  marks  by  him  made  in  chancery, 
if  the  said  sum  be  paid  ;  and  although  the  said  Robert  made  to  the 
king  a  recognisance  in  chancery  for  200  marks  as  aforesaid,  yet  for 
that  no  recognisance  is  enrolled  under  his  name,  but  there  is  enrolled 
a  recognisance  for  200  marks  under  the  name  of  Edward  de  Kendale 
at  the  time  Avhen  treaty  was  made  between  the  king  and  the  said 
Robert  and  Maud  concerning  the  said  wardship  and  forfeiture,  nor 
is  any  ca.use  found  wherefore  the  said  Edward  ought  to  be  bound 
in  that  sum  to  the  king,  and  for  that  it  is  found  by  a  certificate  sent 
into  chancery  by  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  at 
the  king's  command  that  the  said  Robert  has  fully  contented  the 
king  of  the  said  400  marks,  it  seems  to  the  court  that  the  clerk  who 
wrote  that  recognisance  inserted  therein  the  name  Edward  for  the 
name  Robert  inadvertently  by  carelessness,  and  that  the  same  ought 
to  be  corrected,  wherefore  it  is  by  the  council  determined  that  the  said 
recognisance  be  corrected  as  well  upon  the  chancery  rolls  as  in  the 
estreats  of  chancery  sent  to  the  exchequer. 

Membrane  ISd. 

Writing  of  Edmund  de  Stebbyng  clerk  and  Robert  de  Bradenham, 
giving  to  Thomas  de  Bellocampo  earl  of  Warrewyk  and  Richard  de 
Piriton  clerk,  their  executors  and  assigns,  to  hold  of  Joyce  who  was 
wife  of  Sir  Hugh  le  Blount  knight  for  a  term  of  twelve  years,  rendering 
to  her  the  yearly  rent  of  40  marks,  the  manor  of  Gynge  Joiberd 
Laundry  co.  Essex  which  the  said  Joyce  lately  granted  for  that  term 
to  them  the  said  Edmund  and  Robert,  their  executors  and  assigns, 
at  the  rent  aforesaid.     Dated  London,  28  July  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  30  July. 

Aug.  6.  To  the  constable  of  Wyndesore  castle  or  his  lieutenant  there.     Order 

Westminster,  without  delay  to  set  free  John  de  Norhampton  from  the  prison  of 
the  said  castle  where  for  particular  causes  he  is  detained  ;  as  William 
Welde,  William  Walderne,  Hugh  atte  Chirche,  John  Topyngeho, 
Thomas  Lincoln  and  William  Kyng  of  London,  appearing  in  person 
before  the  king  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  for  the  said  John  and 


45   EDWARD   III.  323 


1371.  Membrane  I8d — cont. 

given  bond  jointly  and  seveially  in  200/.,  each  binding  himself  for 
payment  in  full  in  ease  any  of  the  said  mainpernors  be  insufficient 
for  payment  of  that  sum,  to  have  liis  body  before  the  king  and 
council  when  and  where  the  king  will  appoint,  to  stand  to  right 
touching  those  things  which  the  king  and  council  shall  set  forth, 
for  his  good  and  peaceful  behaviour  towards  the  king  and  his  people, 
his  obedience  to  the  mayor,  sheriffs,  aldermen  and  others  having  the 
governance  of  the  city  of  London,  that  he  shall  not  make  nor  procure 
to  be  made  assemblies,  confederacies,  congregations  or  aught  else 
that  may  tend  to  disturbance  of  the  peace  of  the  said  city,  and  that 
in  case  he  shall  hear  any  report  or  have  knowledge  of  this  being  done 
by  other  evildoers  he  shall  without  delay  warn  the  said  mayor,  sheriffs, 
aldermen  and  others  having  the  governance  of  the  city.  By  K.  and  C. 
The  like  to  the  following,  for  deliverance  of  the  several  persons 
named  : 

The  constable  of  Morende  castle  for  John  de  Haddele,  by  main- 
prise of  Adam  Chaungeour,  Fulk  Horewode,  Robert  de  Hatfeld, 
John  Hoo,  Adam  Louek\Ti  and  Geoffrey  Krymbelford  of  London. 
The   constable   of   C'orffe   castle   or   his   lieutenant   for   William 
Horstane,  by  mainprise  of  Walter  Forster,  Simon  WjTichecombe, 
Thomas  Foumeux,   Walter  HuwajTi,   Jolin  Shelljnigford  and 
John  Bangore  of  London. 
The  constable  of  Winchester  castle  or  his  lieutenant  for  John 
de  WatljTigton,  by  mainprise  of  William  Strokelady  '  fisshe- 
manger,'  John   Bryan  '  fisshemanger,'  Richard  Skut  '  draper,' 
John    Reyner    '  cornemanger,'    John    Walcote    '  draper '    and 
Thomas  Dod  '  mercer  '  of  London. 
The  constable  of  Rok\'ngham  castle  or  his  lieutenant  for  Robert 
Northw  old,  by  mainprise  of  Peter  Helsynham,  Jolin  Haylesdon, 
Richard  Wandesford,  John  Snetesham,  Roger  Strete  and  Robert 
Bekerton  of  London. 
The  constable  of  Wyndesore  castle  or  his  lieutenant  for  Robert 
Somersete,    by    mainprise    of    Thomas    Irlande,    Richard    de 
Knousele,  Ellis  de  Thorp,  John  Pakenham,  Robert  Boxford  and 
Hugh  Walsshe  of  London. 
The  constable  of  Marlebergh  castle  or  his  lieutenant  for  Richard 
Palmere,    by   mainprise   of   Walter  Forstere,   Thomas   Irlond, 
Simon  W\Tichecombe,  Nicholas  de  Walle,  Robert  Fysshe  and 
Jolm  Bangor  of  London. 
The  constable  of  Old  Sarum  castle  or  his  lieutenant  for  William 
Essex,   by  mainprise  of  John  de  Bures,  John  Dovy,   Adam 
Stabil,  Hcrvey  Begie,  William  Betele  and  Robert  Warvvyk  of 
London. 
The  constable  of  Wyndesore  or  his  lieutenant  for  Nicholas  de 
Holborn,  by  mainprise  of  John  Berljoigham,  Thomas  Elsyng, 
Nicholas  AUer,  Thomas  Dunemowe,  Roger  Causton  and  Henry 
Frowyk  of  London. 
The  constable  of  WjTidesore  castle  or  liis  lieutenant  for  Robert 
de  Oxenford  '  goldesmyth,'  by  mainprise  of  Thomas  Reynham, 
Henry  Markeby,  Bartholomew  de  Castre,  Richard  de  Weston, 
William  Burdeyn  and  Thomas  Bygode. 
The  constable  of  Vyse  castle  or  his  Ueutenant  for  John  de  Bodes- 
ham,  by  mainprise  of  Thomas  Raynham,  John  Fraunkelayn, 
William  Burdeyn,  Bartholomew  de  Castre,  John  Werehale  and 
Richard  Weston.  By  K.  and  C. 


324 


CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  \9>d — cont. 

Aug.  24.  The  like  to  the  constable  of  Wyndesore  castle  or  his  lieutenant  for 
Marlborough.  Roger  atte  Lynk  ami  William  Blakemor*  of  Norwich,  by  mainprise  of 
Thomas  Ewell,  John  Asty,  John  ToUere,  Stephen  Osebeme,  Adam 
Caston,  Adam  Staunton,  Ralph  Beltham,  Thomas  Lacford,  Edmund 
Abel,  Henry  Carleton,  Edmund  daver,  Roger  Porter  and  Richard 
Loke  of  Suffolk.  By  p.s.  [28815.] 

Aug.  10.  To  the  bailiffs  of  Shorham.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Margaret 
Westminster,  who  was  wife  of  Francis  Kempe,  John  Redmakere  and  John  Gy, 
executors  of  Francis  Kempe  of  Deest  late  merchant  of  London,  to 
deliver  by  indenture  to  the  said  executors  without  delay  the  goods  and 
merchandise  hereinafter  mentioned  by  mainprise  of  Robert  Beauchamp, 
John  Penkrich  and  Richard  Molle  '  spicer  '  of  the  city  of  London,  if 
arrested  for  the  cause  stated  and  for  none  other  ;  as  their  petition 
shews  that  three  cloths  of  '  motele,'  divers  pieces  of  '  rays  '  of  Deest, 
twelve  dozen  '  sadelskirtes,'  six  dozen  of  '  redlash,'  one  fardel  of  linen 
cloth,  three  '  rydels '  and  a  great  number  of  nails,  '  bokeles '  of 
iron  and  hides  silvered  by  the  saddlers'  craft  in  divers  bags,  price 
40Z.  35.  Ad.,  of  the  goods  and  merchandise  of  the  said  Francis,  were 
at  sea  plundered  by  pirates  and  put  ashore  at  the  town  of  Shorham, 
and  are  by  the  bailiffs  arrested  it  is  said  ;  and  the  said  Robert,  John 
Penkrich  and  Richard  have  mainperned  in  chancery  for  the  said 
executors  to  answ^er  to  any  persons  claiming  those  goods  so  as  to 
content  them  if  the  goods  shall  be  adjudged  to  them. 

Sept.  6.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John 

Westminster.  Benyngton  clerk,  John  Moldrich  of  Co  ventre,  John  Knyght  of  Co  ventre, 
Richard  Deyster,  Thomas  Goldwire,  Thomas  de  Leghton  of  Coventre 
'  spicer,'  Thomas  de  Evesham  chaplain,  John  Cristilton  of  Coventre 
clerk,  John  Doughty,  William  Suwet  chaplain,  Thomas  Bekyngham 
clerk,  Richard  Damas,  chaplain,  Henry  Everdon  and  Thomas  Orme  of 
Coventre,  to  stay  the  publication  of  the  exigents  against  them  by 
mainprise  of  John  Bret  knight  of  Notinghamshire,  John  Charnels  of 
W^arwickshire,  John  Rouley  of  London  and  John  Dautre  of  London 
until  the  day  a  writ  de  judicio  against  them  is  returnable,  bringing 
this  writ  before  the  king  ;  as  their  petition  shews  that  they  are  put  in 
•exigents  to  be  outlawed  in  Norhamptonshire  by  the  said  writ  de 
judicio  for  that  they  came  not  before  the  king  in  his  court  to  answer 
Master  John  Bannebury  parson  of  Kyldesby  concerning  an  alleged 
trespass,  and  that  they  are  ready  so  to  answer  on  the  said  day  and 
stand  to  right  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  England  ;  and  the 
said  John  Bret  and  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have 
mainperned  for  them  under  a  pain  of  40Z.  to  have  them  before  the  king 
on  that  day  so  to  answer,  and  further  to  do  what  the  court  shall 
detennine. 

Oct.  10.  Thomas  Benet  of  Stratford  upon  Avene  to  Thomas  de  Newenham 

Westminster,  clerk.     Recognisance  for  10/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of 
his  lands  and  chattels  in  Warwickshire. 
Cancelled  on  'payment. 


*  In  the  warrant  Roger  Lyng  and  WiUiam  Blakomore. 


45  EDWARD  III.  325 


1371.  Membrane  Vld. 

Aug.  22.  To  the  bailiffs  of  Shorham.  Order  at  their  peril,  if  William  Culhara 
Westminster,  merchant  of  London  and  executor  of  Roger  Estfeld  late  merchant  of 
London  may  prove  by  marks,  charters  or  letters  of  cocket  or  by  true 
and  lawful  merchants  that  certain  goods  and  merchandise  by  the  said 
baililTs  arrested  were  of  tiie  said  William  and  Roger,  to  deliver  the 
same  to  him  or  his  attorney  ;  as  in  the  statute  of  staples  pubHshed  at 
Westminster  in  the  27th  year  of  the  reign  it  is  contained  that,  if  any 
merchant  privy  or  foreign  shall  be  robbed  of  his  goods  at  sea,  and  if 
such  goods  shall  come  to  any  parts  with  the  king's  realm  and  land  and 
he  will  sue  for  recovery  thereof,  he  shall  be  admitted  to  prove  that  they 
are  his  by  his  marks,  charter  or  cocket  or  by  true  and  lawful  merchants 
privy  or  foreign,  and  by  such  proofs  their  goods  shall  b(^  delivered  to  mer 
chants  without  making  any  suit  at  the  common  law  ;  and  now  on  behalf 
of  the  said  William  petition  is  made  to  the  king  for  delivery  of  35  bales 
of  woad,  6  bales  of  '  alum,'  4  cases  [case)  of  '  sope,'  3  tuns  with  flax 
and  14  reams  of  paper  price  140^.,  as  well  of  the  goods  and  merchandise 
of  the  said  William  as  of  the  said  Roger,  plundered  at  sea  by  certain 
pirates  and  put  ashore  at  the  town  of  Shorham,  which  were  by  the 
said  bailiffs  arrested  at  his  suit  and  are  yet  in  their  hands,  as  they 
have  hitherto  deferred  to  deUver  the  same  to  him  although  he  has 
many  times  sued  to  have  them  out  of  their  hand  ;  and  the  king's  will 
is  that  the  said  statute  be  kept  inviolate ;  and  John  Phelipot  of 
London  and  the  said  William,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have 
mainperned  under  pain  of  the  aforesaid  sum  to  content  any  persons 
claiming  the  said  goods  if  the  same  be  adjudged  to  them. 
The  like  to  the  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Houve. 

The  like   to  the   following  for  delivery   of  goods   to   the  persons 
mentioned  respectively  : — 

The  bailiffs  of  Brembre  and  of  Shorham  in  favour  of  Jolm 
Bernardyn  merchant,  for  334  pieces  of  kerchiefs  of  '  Wermoise  ' 
each  piece  containing  four  plights  {foiW),  4  pieces  of  camaca 
'  blue  '  containing  24  ells,  and  500  ells  of  canvas,  price  100/., 
by  mainprise  of  John  Donet  of  London  and  the  said  Jolm 
Bernardyn. 
The  bailiffs  of  the  bishop  of  Cicestre  of  Preston  Tippenoke  and 

Houve,  for  the  same. 
The  bailiffs  of  the  abbot  of  Fecamp  of  Stenynge,  for  the  same. 
The  bailiffs  of  Shorham  in  favour  of  William  de  Asshebourne  of 
London  '  felmongere '  and  merchant,  for  31  dozen  fells  of 
foynes  {funes)  and  5  mantles  of  fitchews,  one  timber  and  a  half 
and  8  fells  of  grey  work,  7  dozen  fells  of  roes  and  13|  lb.  of  green 
thread,  price  22/.  IO5.,  by  mainprise  of  John  Rote  and  John 
Fulham  skinners  of  London  and  of  the  said  Wilham. 

Sept.  12.  To  the  bailiffs  of  Shorham.  Like  order,  upon  the  petition  of 
Westminster.  Conrad  de  Sane  to  Trudo  of  Almain,  in  regard  to  t>4  dozen  and  two 
sarplers  of  striped  cloth  of  St.  Tron  belonging  to  the  said  Conrad,  price 
100  marks,  by  mainprise  of  Geoffrey  Proude  and  Geoffrey  Bircham 
of  London  and  of  the  said  Conrad ;  and  order  to  certify  in  chancery 
under  their  seals  the  number  of  cloths  delivered  and  the  price  thereof. 
The  like  to  the  bailiffs  of  Houve. 

Sept.  28.         To  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester.     Order  to  stay  the  further  publication 
Westminster,  of  the  exigents  against  Nicholas  de  Audeleye  knight  by  mainprise  of 


326  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSK    ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  \ld — cord. 

Jolin  Roche  kniglit,  John  Joce  knight  and  William  Xasche  of  Hereford- 
shire and  of  William  Podmor  of  Staffordshire,  bringing  this  writ  Vjefore 
the  justices  at  Westininster  ;  as  lately  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king 
ordered  the  sheriff  to  put  the  said  Nicholas  in  exigents  from  county  to 
county  until  he  should  be  outlawed  if  he  should  not  appear,  and  if 
he  should  appear  to  take  him  and  keep  him  in  safe  custody  so  as  to 
have  his  body  before  the  said  justices  in  the  octaves  of  St.  Martin 
next  to  content  the  king  concerning  a  trespass  by  force  of  arms  com- 
mitted against  Roger  Berde  of  Sweyneston  in  breach  of  the  peace,  whereof 
he  was  con\'icted  it  is  said,  and  the  said  Nicholas  is  put  in  exigents 
accordingly  to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came  not  to  content  the  king 
as  aforesaid  ;  and  the  said  John  Roche,  John  Joce,  Wilham  and 
W^illiam,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainpemed  under 
a  pain  of  400^.  to  have  his  body  before  the  said  justices  on  the  day 
the  said  writ  is  returnable  to  content  as  well  the  king  of  what  pertains 
to  him  as  the  said  Roger  of  the  damages  adjudged  to  him  in  that 
behalf. 

Vacated,  because  it  is  ivitnessed  by  the  chancellor  that  the  said  Nicholas 
came  before  the  said  justices  at  the  octaves  aforesaid,  and  contented  as 
well  the  king  as  the  party  named. 

Sept.  30.  To  the  bailiffs  of  Norwich.  Order,  if  the  men  of  Flanders  in  that 
Westminster,  town  and  the  suburb  thereof  by  the  said  bailiffs  taken  and  imprisoned 
shall  find  sufficient  mainpernors,  for  whom  the  bailiffs  will  answer, 
to  mainpern  every  one  of  them  for  his  good  behaviour  henceforward 
towards  the  king  and  people,  and  that  they  shall  not  leave  the  said 
town  or  suburb  without  the  king's  licence  but  there  continually  abide 
well  and  faithfully  plying  their  crafts  and  labouring,  to  set  them  free 
so  to  do  in  aid  of  the  king's  lieges,  but  to  certify  without  delay  in 
chancery  the  manner  and  form  of  such  mainprise,  the  mainpernors' 
names,  and  all  their  action  in  the  matter  ;  as  lately  the  king  ordered 
the  said  baiUffs  to  arrest  all  the  said  men  of  Flanders  and  their  goods 
and  chattels,  keeping  their  bodies  in  good  and  honourable  custody 
until  further  order  and  safe  guarding  their  goods  without  taking  aught 
away  as  they  would  answer  it  to  the  king  and  the  said  Flemings ;  and 
now^  the  king  has  learned  that  by  colour  of  that  command  the  said 
bailiffs  have  taken  a  great  number  of  them  and  are  keeping  them  in 
custody  in  prison,  and  that  though  many  times  they  have  offered 
mainpernors  to  mainpern  them  as  aforesaid,  the  said  bailiffs  have 
deferred  and  do  yet  defer  to  set  them  free  by  such  mainprise, 
wherefore  petition  is  made  to  the  king  on  their  behalf  for  their 
deliverance,  as  they  have  committed  no  fault  in  the  sight  of  the  king 
or  any  of  his  people.  Proviso  that  the  bailiffs  shall  safe  keep 
under  arrest  the  goods  and  chattels  by  them  arrested. 

Charter  of  Henry  de  Dynelay,  son  and  heir  of  Richard  de  Dynelay, 
giving  to  Robert  de  Plesyngton  a  yearly  rent  of  135.  4d,  to  be  taken 
during  the  said  Robert's  life  of  all  lands  of  the  grantor  within  the  county 
of  Lancastre  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  with  power 
to  distrain  for  arrears  ;  and  by  payment  of  Id.  the  grantor  has  attorned 
tenant  to  the  said  Robert.  Dated  London,  Monday  the  feast  of 
Michaelmas  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  9  October. 


45    EDWARD    III.  327 


1371.  Membrane  \^. 

Sept.  26.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passaj^e  in  the  port  of  London  and  the  river 
VVestiuinstor.  Thames.  Order  to  suffer  brotlier  VVilHam  de  Merston  a  monk  of 
Cestre  abbey,  the  abbot's  proctor,  in  the  said  port  and  river  to  pass 
witliout  let  towartls  the  court  of  Rome  with  one  servant  taking  bulls, 
proxies  and  other  memoranda  and  10  marks  for  his  expi'nsf^s,  any 
comniand  to  them  previously  addressed  to  the  contrary  notwithstand- 
ing ;  as  Robert  de  Brembre  of  Oxfordshire  appearing  in  person  in 
chancery  has  mainperned  for  liim  under  a  pain  of  lOOZ.  that  he  is  about 
to  journey  thither  to  prosecute  the  said  abbot's  business,  and  shall 
not  attempt  aught  that  may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  any 
of  his  subjects.  By  p.s. 

Charter  of  Robert  Aleyn  of  London,  giving  with  warranty  to  John 
Swafeld  and  John  Horold,  tlieir  heirs  and  assigns,  all  his  tenement 
in  Grascherchestrete  in  the  parish  of  AUhallows  Grascherche  London 
called  '  Belle  on  the  Hoppe,'  with  shops,  cellars,  solars,  gardens  and 
all  other  his  tenements  there,  his  tenement  in  Fancherchestrete  in 
the  parish  of  St.  Benet  Grascherche  London  with  the  shops  adjoining 
and  other  appurtenances,  also  all  his  tenement  and  appurtenances  in 
the  parish  of  St.  Botulph  by  Billyngisgate  London  with  the  quay, 
shops,  gai-dens  etc.,  hereby  delivering  seisin  of  the  premises.  Dated 
London,  Tuesday  after  St.  Edward  the   King  45  Edward  ILL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  18  October. 

Membrane  \5d. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Bradenham,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Edmund 
de  Stebbyng  clerk  of  the  manor  of  Merkeshall  in  Great  Dunmowe  co. 
Essex,  of  12/.  of  yearly  rent  payable  by  Peter  West  to  the  said  Edmund, 
Alan  de  Sutton  and  the  said  Robert  for  the  manor  of  Fleckenho  co. 
W^arrewyk  held  of  them  by  the  said  Peter  for  life,  and  of  the  reversion 
of  the  said  manor  of  Fleckenho,  which  manor  of  Merkeshall,  rent 
and  reversion  William  de  Ferrariis  lord  of  Groby  gave  by  charter 
of  feoffment  to  them  the  said  Edmund,  Alan  and  Robert.  Dated 
London,  28  July  45  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Bradenham,  granting  to  Edmund  de  Stebbjmg 
clerk  all  that  shall  or  might  pertain  to  him  the  said  Robert  by  way 
of  occupation,  administration  or  executorship  of  the  moveable  goods 
and  chattels  of  Sir  William  de  Ferrers  lord  of  Groby  in  all  England, 
which  the  said  Sir  William  in  his  life  time  by  writing  gave  to  the  said 
Edmund,  to  certain  other  persons  and  to  the  said  Robert  for  payment 
of  his  debts  and  performance  of  other  matters  wherewith  he  charged 
them  ;  and  renunciation  of  all  manner  of  action  or  claim  thereupon. 
Dated   London,    28    July  45  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings,  30  July. 

Aug.  6.  To  William  Wyndesore  the  king's  lieutenant  in  Ireland.     Order 

Westminster,  without  difficulty  or  delay  to  cause  justice  to  be  done  to  Richard  de 
Burgh  knight  touching  certain  treasons  by  him  committed  according 
to  the  law  and  custom  of  Ireland  and  to  his  deserts  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  that  the  said  Richard  is  taken  and  kept  in  prison  for  that 
cause.  By  K.  and  C. 


328 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  I5d — cont. 

Aug.  7.  To    the    bishop    of    Waterford    and    Lysmorc.      Order    upon    his 

VVeetminster.  allegiance,  as  he  loves  the  king  and  his  honour  and  desires  the  salvation 
of  Ireland,  to  leave  over  all  else,  cease  every  excuse,  and  to  be  in 
person  before  the  king  and  council  at  Westminster  in  the  octaves  of 
Michaelmas  next,  to  give  information  touching  matters  which  shall 
there  be  laid  before  him  ;  as  the  king  would  have  speech  and  treaty 
with  him  touching  certain  difficult  and  urgent  business  which  concerns 
the  estate  of  Ireland.  By  K.  and  C, 

[Fcedera.     Rep.  on  Dignity  of  a  Peer,  iv.  p.  653.] 
The  like  to  the  dean  of  Dublin,  Stephen  Bray,  William  Herdeman 
and  Reymund  Meckyrgan. 
[Ihid.] 

Aug.  10.  To  John  Knyvet  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hold  pleas 

Westminster,  before  the  king.  Order  to  command  a  stay  of  the  publication  of  the 
exigents  and  of  outlawry  against  Thomas  de  Brauncestre,  one  of 
the  esquires  of  the  king's  eldest  son,  until  his  return  to  England  from  the 
king's  service  in  Gascony,  where  he  is  abiding  by  order  of  the  king's  son  ; 
as  by  process  before  the  king  made  concerning  certain  felonies  for  which 
he  is  indicted  the  said  Thomas  is  put  in  exigents  to  be  outlawed  in 
Norhamptonshire,  and  is  near  being  outlawed,  as  by  the  said  process 
may  appear  ;  and  he  is  in  Gascony  as  aforesaid  so  that  he  may  not 
render  himself  in  the  said  county  ready  to  answer  touching  those 
indictments,  as  the  king's  said  son  has  certified  by  letter  in  chancery, 
praying  that  the  king  will  see  the  said  Thomas  harmless  while  there 
abiding  on  his  service  ;  and  the  king  judges  it  unreasonable  that  any 
man  should  be  outlawed  for  not  appearing  while  he  is  on  the  king's 
service  in  foreign  parts.  By  C. 

Mandate  to  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton  to  stay  the  exigents  aforesaid. 

Aug.  12.  To  the  bailiffs  of  Shorliam  and  John  Barbour  of  the  same.     Order, 

Westminster,  upon  the  petition  of  William  Culham  of  London,  by  mainprise  of  John 
Phelipot  of  London  and  the  said  William,  to  deliver  to  him  35  bales  of 
woad,  6  bales  of  '  alum  '  4  cases  {casi)  of  '  sope,'  3  tuns  with  flax  and  14 
reams  of  paper,  price  140Z.,  by  the  said  baiUffs  arrested  ;  as  his  petition 
shews  that  the  same,  being  of  the  goods  and  merchandise  as  well  of  the 
said  William  as  of  Roger  de  Estefeld  whose  executor  he  is  it  is  said, 
were  by  certain  pirates  plundered  at  sea,  put  ashore  at  the  said  town, 
arrested  as  aforesaid  at  the  said  William's  suit,  and  are  yet  in  the 
hands  of  the  said  bailiffs  and  John  Barbour,  and  that  they  have  hitherto 
deferred  to  deliver  the  same  to  the  said  William  to  his  hurt,  delaying 
the  execution  of  the  said  Roger's  will,  though  he  has  many  times  sued 
to  have  them  out  of  their  hands  ;  and  the  said  John  Phelipot  and 
William,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under 
pain  of  the  aforesaid  sum  to  be  answerable  to  any  persons  claiming 
a  right  in  the  said  goods,  and  to  content  them  thereof  if  the  same  shall 
be  adjudged  to  them. 

To  the  same.  Like  order,  upon  a  petition  made  on  behalf  of 
William  Assheboume  of  London  '  felmongere,'  in  regard  to  31  dozen 
fells  of  fojmes,  5  mantles  of  fitchews,  one  timber  and  a  half  and  8  fells 
of  grey  work,  7  dozen  fells  of  roes  and  13|Z6.  of  green  thread,  price 
22/.  10s.,  by  mainprise  of  John  Rote  and  John  Fulham  skinners  of 
London  and  of  the  said  Wilham. 


45  EDWARD   III.  329 


1371.  Membrane  I5d — cord. 

Aug.  18.         To  the  samp.     Like  order  in  regard  to  334  pieces  of  kerchiets   of 

Westminster.  '  Wermoise  '  every  piece  containing  four  pliglits,  4  pieces  of   camaca 

*  bleue'  containing  24  ells,  and  500  ells  of  'canavace,'  price  100/.,  upon 

a  petition  niade  on  behalf  of  John  liernardyn  merchant,  by  mainprise 

of  John  Donet  of  London  and  the  said  merchant. 

Aug.  26.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull.  Order,  for 
Westminster,  particular  causes  laid  before  the  king  and  council,  on  sight  of  these 
presents  forthwith  to  arrest  all  the  men  of  Flanders  and  all  their 
goods  and  chattels  in  that  town  and  the  suburb  thereof,  keeping 
their  bodies  in  honourable  custody,  and  safe  guarding  their  goods 
and  chattels  until  further  order  without  taking  aught  away,  as  they 
will  answer  it  to  the  king  and  the  said  Flemings,  and  without  delay 
certifying  in  chancery  under  their  seals  the  names  of  the  said 
Flemings,  the  goods  and  chattels  so  arrested,  the  value  or  price, 
thereof,  their  description  and  owners.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Foedera.] 

The  like  to  the  bailiffs  of  the  to^^-ns  of  Boston,  Great  Jernemuth 
and  Gippewic  and  of  the  cit}'  of  Xorwich,  the  mayor  and  baiUffs  of  the 
town  of  Lenne  and  of  the  cities  of  Lincoln,  Bristol  and  York. 

[Ibid.] 

Aug.  22.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk.  Order,  if  Ellis  parson  of  Bokenhamfery 
Westminster,  and  John  Frankys  his  servant  shall  find  sufficient  mainpernors  who 
will  mainpem  under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have  them  at  a  set  day  in  the 
precept  contained  before  William  de  Ufford  earl  of  Suffolk  and  his 
fellows,  guardians  of  the  peace  and  justices  appointed  in  Norffolk  to 
hear  and  determine  divers  felonies  and  trespasses  and  attempts  made 
contrary  to  the  ordinance  concerning  workmen,  craftsmen  and  servants, 
to  set  the  said  Elhs  and  John  free  from  the  prison  of  Norwich  castle 
where  they  are  detained  by  precept  of  the  said  justices,  bringing  before 
them  the  names  of  the  mainpernors  and  this  writ  ;  as  on  behalf  of  the 
said  Ellis  and  John  petition  is  made  to  the  king  shewing  that  at  the 
suit  of  William  de  Braham  they  are  attached  to  answer  as  well  the  king 
as  the  said  WiUiam  for  that  contrary  to  the  said  ordinance  they  ad- 
mitted and  retained  in  the  service  of  the  said  ElUs  Maud  wife  of  Geoffrey 
Sergeant,  lately  in  the  said  William's  service  at  Bokenhamfery,  who 
without  reasonable  cause  and  without  his  licence  left  his  service  before 
the  end  of  the  term  agreed  between  them,  that  they  are  imprisoned 
as  aforesaid,  and  that  they  are  ready  to  answer  toucliing  the  premises 
at  the  appointed  day,  and  to  stand  to  right  according  to  the  law  and 
custom  of  the  realm. 


Oct.  11.  Thomas  Pecok  of  Pentelowe  co.  Essex  to  John  Yonge  citizen  of 

Westminster.  London.     Recognisance  for  lOZ.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of 
his  lands  and  chattels  in  Essex. 


Membr.ANE  \^d. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Samborne  parson  of  Jevele,  Jolin  de  Waltham 
parson  of  Upwallop  and  John  Newe  chaplain,  giving  to  Sir  Richard  de 
Ravenser  archdeacon  of  Lincoln  and  John  de  Ravenser  clerk  for  their 
life  a  yearly  rent  of  40/.  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even 


330 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1371. 


Membrane  I4d — cont. 


portions  of  all  the  lands  which  the  grantors  have  of  the  gift  of  Thomas 
de  Bokelondo  knight  in  Upwallop,  Xethervvallop,  Berghton  and 
Motesfonte.  granting  also  power  to  distrain  for  arrears.  Witnesses  : 
Hugh  Camoys,  Hugh  Tirol  knights,  Peter  de  Brugge,  William  de 
Houghton,  Edmund  Spercoc,  John  Wallop,  John  Trenchard.  Dated 
Netherwallop,  20  May  45  Edward  III. 


Writing  of  Robert  de  Sambome  parson  of  Jevele,  John  de  Waltham 
parson  of  Upwallop  and  John  Newe  chaplain,  being  an  attornment  to 
Sir  Richard  de  Ravenser  archdeacon  of  Lincoln  and  John  de  Ravenser 
clerk  by  virtue  of  a  yearly  rent  of  40/.  to  them  granted  by  the  said 
parsons  and  chaplain  to  be  taken  of  lands  in  Upwallop,  Netherwallop, 
Berghton  and  Motesfont  which  the  grantors  had  of  the  gift  of 
Thomas  de  Bokelond  knight,  i)utting  them  in  seisin  thereof  by 
payment  of  4c?.     Dated  22  May  45  Edward  III. 


Oct.  14. 

Westminster. 


Charter  of  Robert  de  Samborne  parson  of  Jevele,  John  de  Waltham 
parson  of  LTpwallop  and  John  Newe  chaplain,  giving  with  warranty 
to  Thomas  de  Bouclonde  knight  and  Maud  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs 
and  assigns  of  the  said  Thomas  their  manors  of  Monekebury  in 
Upwallop,  Bouclonde  in  Netherwallop  and  Berghton  and  all  lands 
in  Motesfonte  co.  Southampton  which  they  had  of  the  gift  and  feoff- 
ment of  the  said  Thomas.  Witnesses :  Hugh  Camoys,  Hugh  Tirel 
knights,  Peter  de  Brugge,  William  de  Houghton,  Edmund  Spercoc, 
Jolmi  W^allop,  John  Trenchard.  Dated  Netherwallop,  Thursday  before 
St.  Peter's  Chains  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charters  and 
writing  at  Winchester  on  Sunday  the  eve  of  the  Nativity  of  the  Virgin 
before  Walter  de  Perle,  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus  potesta- 
tem  which  is  on  the  files  of  chancery  for  this  year. 

To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  Jernemuth.  Order  to 
suffer  Thomas  Visshawe  chaplain  in  that  port  to  pass  without  let 
towards  the  court  of  Rome  with  one  groom  and  one  '  hakeneye,' 
taking  60s.  for  his  expenses  and  40  marks  by  exchange,  any  command 
of  the  king  to  them  addressed  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding  ;  as 
he  is  about  to  journey  thither  with  the  king's  licence  in  order  to 
prosecute  the  business  of  the  earl  of  Warrewyk,  and  has  found  in 
chancery  William  de  Burton  knight  and  Henry  de  Ardeme,  who  have 
mainperned  under  a  pain  of  lOOZ.  that  he  shall  not  do  or  attempt 
aught  that  may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  his  people  in  the 
said  court  or  elsewhere. 

The  following  have  the  like  letters,  with  licence  to  pass  over  sea  : 
Brother  Robert  minister  of  the  order  of  the  Trinity,  to  pass  in 
the  port  of  London  and  river  Thames  or  of   Great  Jernemuth 
with  one  yeoman  taking  405.,  by  mainprise  of  Roger  Digge  and 
Master  Robert  Manfeld  under  a  pain  of  1001. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland.     Order  to  cause  a  regard  to  be  made 

Westminster,  of  Inglewode  forest  according  to  the  dapitula  following,  so  that  it  be 
made  before  [  ].* 

Capitula. 

*   The  date  left  blank  here  and  in  the  testing  clause. 


45  EDWARD  III.  331 


1371.  Membrane  \^d — cord. 

Oct.  14.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  ports  of  London  or  Sandewie, 

Wostminstor.  Order  to  suffer  Master  Robert  de  Sustede  parson  of  Wyllyngham  in  one 
of  those  ports  to  pass  without  let  with  one  yeouian  antl  two  horses, 
taking  his  books,  100s.  for  his  expenses  and  40/.  by  exchange,  any 
command  of  the  king  to  them  previously  addressed  to  the  contrary 
notwithstanding  ;  as  with  the  king's  licence  [he  is  about  to  journey] 
towards  the  court  of  Rome  in  order  to  prosecute  there  the  business 
of  William  de  Wymundham  the  king's  physician,  and  has  found  in 
chancery  Roger  Perwych  and  John  de  Thorne,  who  have  mainperned 
under  a  pain  of  100/.  that  he  shall  not  there  or  elsewhere  over  sea 
attempt  aught  that  may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  any  of 
his  subjects.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  \M. 

Charter  of  Cicely  Turberville  lady  of  Hacche  Bcauchampco.  Somerset, 
giving  with  warranty  to  Valentine  atte  Forde  chaplain,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  of  free  men  and  neifs  which 
she  has  in  Dorton  under  Bernewode  co.  Bukyngham,  as  in  houses, 
gardens,  lands,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  woods,  moors,  ways, 
paths  etc.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Fulk  de  Bennynghani  knight,  Richard 
Forester,  John  Hertwell  then  mayor  of  the  town  of  Oxford.  John 
Norton  and  John  Gibbes  bailiffs  there.  Dated  the  feast  of  the  Exalta- 
tion of  Holy  Cross  42  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Cicely  Turberville,  giving  with  warranty  to  Valentine 
atte  Forde  clerk  and  his  assigns  during  his  life  all  the  rents  and  services 
wliich  the  following  persons  used  to  pay  her  yearly  for  the  several 
tenements  hereinafter  mentioned  in  Shepton  Beauchamp  which  they 
held  of  her  :  Richard  Miles,  Emma  his  wife  and  Robert  their  son  for 
a  messuage  late  of  William  Louecok,  three  cottages  late  of  Henry 
Clerk,  a  water  mill,  one  piece  of  land  late  of  Master  John  Dare,  one 
piece  of  land  late  of  Master  John  Ivethorne  and  37  acres  of  land  and 
meadow  held  by  divers  tenures ;  Jolin  Mower  and  Agnes  his  wife  for 
a  messuage  and  24  acres  of  land  and  meadow  held  by  divers  tenures ; 
Jolm  Vyncent  the  younger  for  a  messuage  and  20  acres  of  land  and 
meadow,  Walter  Peverel  for  a  messuage  and  23  acres  of  land  and 
meadow,  John  Vyncent  the  elder  and  Christina  liis  wife  for  a  mes- 
suage and  13  acres  of  land  and  meadow,  John  Brooke  for  a  messuage 
and  20  acres  of  land  and  meadow,  William  Grytt  for  a  messuage 
and  13  acres  of  land  and  meadow,  Nicholas  Fort  and  Agnes  Ms  wife 
for  a  messuage  and  20  acres  of  land  and  meadow,  and  Benedict 
Chepman  and  Alice  his  wife  for  a  messuage  and  10  acres  of  land 
and  meadow  ;  and  granting  \\ ith  warranty  to  the  said  Valentine  or 
liis  assigns  hke%vise  for  liis  life  the  reversions  of  all  the  premises  which 
ought  severally  to  revert  to  her  the  said  Cicely  or  her  heirs  after  the 
said  tenants'  deaths.  Witnesses  :  Roger  Sylveyn,  Nicholas  Bolour, 
William  Blake,  John  Beyvyn,  John  Gyge.  Dated  3  September 
44  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Cicely  Turbervyle  lady  of  Hacche  Beauchamp,  being 
a  release  to  Sir  Valentine  atte  Forde  of  all  manner  of  actions  real  and 
personal  by  reason  of  any  receipt,  debt,  account,  trespass,  demand, 
or  otherwise  all  the  time  that  he  has  been  in  her  service  whatever 


332  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  13d! — cont. 

office  he  has  held  to  this  date.     Dated  16  October  43  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charters  and 
writing  at  Westminster,  17  October  this  year. 

Writing  of  Richard  de  Sutton,  resigning  into  the  hand  of  the  abbot 
of  Our  Lady  of  York  all  his  estate  in  the  corrody  to  him  granted  by 
the  king  to  be  taken  yearly  in  that  abbey  for  his  maintenance,  which 
grant  is  confirmed  to  him  under  the  common  seal  of  the  said  house, 
to  the  use  and  profit  of  Joan  de  Wygmore  to  whom  he  the  said  Richard 
has  granted  the  same.    Dated  London,  31  Jul}'  45  Edward  III.    French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  21  October. 

Writing  of  Godfrey  Hemmyng  of  Holm  co.  Norfolk,  being  a  quit- 
claim with  warranty  to  Sir  Nicholas  rector  of  Sevyngton,  Sir  Henry 
vicar  of  Sydyngbourne  and  Sir  William  Cohere  vicar  of  Milton,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands,  rents,  services  and  possessions,  their 
commodities  etc.  whatsoever  in  the  hundred  of  Milton  co.  Kent  which 
were  sometime  of  Sir  Ralph  de  Holm  knight.  Witnesses  :  Robert 
de  Cay  ton,  John  de  Bures,  Roger  Digge,  John  Toures,  John 
Chaumpeneys,  Richard  Lamb.     Dated  8  May  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  21  October. 

Oct.  25.  Robert  de  Lovayne  knight  to  Richard  earl  of  Arundell  and  Surrey. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  600/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Sussex. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  Robert  Boteler  of  Hertwell  and  William  Sparhauk  of 
Hampslap,  cousins  and  heirs  of  Edmund  fitz  Johan,  being  a  quitclaim 
to  Sir  Thomas  Reynes  knight,  Richard  de  Leycestre,  John  de 
Arderne,  John  de  Olneye  '  marchaunt '  of  Westone,  William  de 
Borowh',  John  de  Cane  and  John  Arke write,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  the  lands  and  possessions  which  the  said  Sir  Thomas  and  the  others 
named  have  in  Hampslape  and  Hertwell,  and  of  the  manor  of  Quenton 
which  Sir  WiUiam  de  Quenton  and  Isabel  his  wife  hold  for  life  with 
reversion  or  remainder  to  the  said  Sir  Thomas  and  the  others. 
Witnesses :  Ralph  de  Shirwode,  John  Wymound,  John  Gylmyn, 
Stephen  Burnet,  William  Straunge,  John  Ingrith.  Dated  Hampslape, 
Friday  after  the  Nativity  of  the  Virgin  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27  October. 

Writing  of  John  Peke  of  Cicestre,  cousin  and  heir  of  John  de  Ofham 
sometime  citizen  and  spicer  of  London,  being  a  general  release  to 
Thomas  Frowyk  of  Middlesex  of  all  actions  real  and  personal.  Dated 
the  parish  of  St.  Giles  without  Cripelgate  London,  Monday  before 
St.  Simon  and  St.  Jude  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27  October. 

Writing  of  Jolm  de  Hamstede  citizen  and  saddler  of  the  city  of 
London,  being  a  release  to  William  son  of  Thomas  de  Thometon 
'  pavilloner  '  of  all  actions  real  and  personal  by  reason  of  contract, 
covenant,  debt,  account  or  otherwise.  Dated  London,  20  October 
45  Edward  III. 
,  Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27  October. 


45    EDWARD    III.  333 


1371.  Membrane  I2d. 

Charter  of  Thomas  de  Bouclonde  knight,  giving  with  warranty 
to  Sir  Kobert  do  Saiiiborne  parson  of  Jevele,  Sir  Jolin  de  Waltham 
parson  of  Upwallop  and  John  Newe  chaphxin,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
his  manors  of  Monekebnry  in  I'pwallop,  Bouclonde  in  Xetherwallop 
and  Berghton  with  all  his  lands  in  Motesfonte  eo.  Suthampton  which 
descended  to  him  by  inheritan(!'e  by  the  death  of  Jolin  de  Bouclonde 
his  brother.  Witnesses  :  Hugh  Camoys,  Hugh  Tirol  knights,  Peter 
de  Brugge,  William  Houghton,  John  Wallop,  Kdmund  Spereoc,  John 
Trenchard.     Dated  Upwallop,  6  May  45  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Bouclonde  knight,  praying  Sir  Robert  de 
Samborne  parson  of  Jevele,  Sir  John  do  Waltham  parson  of  Upwallop 
and  John  Newe  chaplain  to  grant  to  Sir  Richard  de  Ravenser  arch- 
deacon of  Lincoln  and  John  de  Ravenser  clerk  for  life  a  yearly  rent 
of  40^.  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  his 
manors  of  Monekebury  in  Upwallop,  Bouclonde  in  Xetherwallop  and 
Berghton  and  of  his  lands  in  Motesfonte  co.  Suthampton,  all  which 
he  lately  gave  by  charter  to  the  said  parsons  and  chaplain,  with 
a  clause  of  distraint  for  arrears.  Dated  Radelynche,  12  May 
45  Edward  III. 


Writing  of  Thomas  de  Bouclonde  knight,  reciting  a  gift  lately  made 
by  charter  of  Robert  de  Samborne  parson  of  Jevele,  John  de  Waltham 
parson  of  Upwallop  and  John  Xewe  chaplain  to  him  the  said  Thomas 
and  Maud  his  \\ife  and  to  his  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  manors  of 
Monekebury  in  Upwallop,  Boukelonde  in  Nethervvallop  and  Berghton 
and  lands  in  Motesfonte  co.  Suthampton,  which  manors  and  lands  the 
grantors  lately  had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  the  said  Thomas,  with 
bond  for  warranty  thereof,  and  releasing  to  them  the  said  warranty  and 
all  manner  of  actions  which  he  the  said  Thomas  or  his  heirs  by 
reason  thereof  may  have  against  them  or  their  heirs  in  time  to  come. 
Witnesses  :  Walter  Perle,  Walter  Aywode,  William  de  Houghton. 
Dated  Winchester,  Sunday  the  eve  of  the  Xativity  of  the  Virgin 
45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
WTitings  at  Winchester  on  Sunday  the  eve  of  the  Nativity  of  the 
Virgin  before  Walter  de  Perle,  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus 
potestatem  which  is  on  the  files  of  chancery  for  this  year. 

Writing  of  W^illiam  Wyset  rector  of  Intewode  and  Hugh  de  Bandon 
rector  of  Berneham,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Dame  Katherine  who  was 
wHg  of  Sir  William  de  la  Pole  the  elder  knight.  Sir  Edmund  de  la  Pole 
his  son,  William  de  Thweng  of  Foston  and  Thomas  de  Estfeld,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  whole  manor  of  Cryngilford  and  all  lands, 
rents,  homages  and  services  of  free  tenants  and  neifs,  the  said  neifs, 
their  chattels  and  all  that  goes  with  them  in  Cryngilford,  Hedirset, 
Little  Melton,  Colneye,  Eton  and  Erlham,  and  of  a  water  mill  in 
Cryngilford,  all  which  \\ere  sometime  of  Adam  de  Berford.  Dated 
1  February  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Norwich  24  March  before 
Wilham  de  WychjTigham,  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus 
potestatem  which  is  on  the  file  of  chancery  for  tliis  year. 


334  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  I2d — cont. 

Writing  of  John  de  Berford  and  Richard  de  Berford,  being  a  quit- 
claim to  Dame  Kathorinc  who  was  wife  of  Sir  William  de  la  Pole  the 
elder  knight,  Sir  Edmund  de  la  Pole  knight  his  son,  William  de 
Thweng  of  Foston  and  Thomas  de  Estfeld,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of 
the  whole  manor  of  Cryngilford  and  all  lands,  rents,  homages  and 
services  of  free  tenants  and  neifs,  of  the  said  neifs,  their  chattels  and 
all  that  goes  with  them  in  Cryngilford,  Hedirset,  Little  Melton,  Colneye, 
Eton  and  Erlham,  and  of  a  water  mill  in  Cryngilford,  all  w liich  were 
sometime  of  Adam  de  Berford.     Dated  1  February  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  (o^  the  last). 

Oct.  16.  William  de  Burton  knight  to  Philip  de  Melreth  clerk.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  160/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Roteland. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

William  de  Peyto,  John  de  Peyto  knight  and  Henry  de  Edyngdon 
to  Baldwin  de  Frevylc  knight.  Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  200/., 
to  be  levied  etc.  in  Warwicksliire. 

John  Bardolf,  William  de  Geydon,  John  Raul3rns  of  Dersete  and 
John  atte  Grene  of  Greneburgh  to  Baldwin  de  Frevyle  knight.  Joint 
and  several  recognisance  for  100/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Warwickshire. 

Oct.  17.  Patrick  de  Langedale  of  Etton  to  William  de  Aldeburgh  knight- 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  80  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Yorksliire. 

Henry  Bouet  parson  of  Croft  co.  York  to  John  Clervaux  parson  of 
Banliam.  Recognisance  for  40/.  payable  by  instalments  ;  to  be 
levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in 
Yorkshire. 


Walter  Blaunkpayne  of  Ivelcestre  to  Ralph  Porter  keeper  of  the 
king's  gaol  in  the  town  of  Ivelcestre  co.  Somerset.  Recognisance 
for  100/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Somerset. 


Peter  Semer,  Walter  Wodlond  and  John  Semer  of  Guldeford  to 
Simon  bishop  of  London.  Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  54/.,  to 
be  levied  etc.  in  Surrey. 

John  Swafeld  and  John  Horold  to  Simon  de  la  Leek  knight,  William 
Halden  of  Snaynton  and  Maud  Swafeld.  Recognisance  for  1,000/.,  to 
be  levied  etc.  in  Notjnighamshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Simon. 


Membrane  lid. 

Writing  of  Godfrey  Cyfrewast,  son  and  heir  of  Roger  Cyfrewast 
knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  William  de  Mulsho  clerk, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  whole  manor  of  Chitteme  co.  Wiltesir  and 
all    lands,    rents,    meadows,    feedings,     pastures,    commons,    wards. 


45   EDWARD    in.  335 


1371.  Membrane  lid — cont. 

marriages,  reliefs,  heriots,  suits  of  court,  bondages,  customs,  services 
of  free  men  and  neifs  etc.  thereto  belonging.  Witnesses  :  Walter  do 
Haywode,  Michael  Skyllyng,  Thomas  de  Hungerford,  Nicholas  Taillour, 
llobert  de  Cherlton,  William  Wychford,  WilMam  Cole.  Dated 
Chitterne,  vSunday  before  St.  Simon  and  St.  Jude  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
30  October. 

Charter  of  John  Stodeye,  Nicholas  Brembre,  Robert  della  More 
and  Thomas  Albon  citizens  of  London,  giving  in  fee  to  William  de 
Cobham  knight,  William  Harewell  clerk,  William  Tarent  clerk  and 
Roger  de  Asshebournliam,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  the  manor  and 
advowson  of  Notfeld  and  4  marks  of  rent  in  the  town  of  Merstham, 
so  that  they  the  said  citizens  nor  their  heirs  be  not  bound  to  warranty 
of  the  premises  nor  any  parcel  thereof  by  virtue  of  any  words  in  tliis 
charter  contained,  nor  by  virtue  of  the  feoffment  thereby  made. 
Witnesses:  William  Croyser,  Simon  de  Codyngton  knights,  William 
Notegate,  Walter  Whithors,  John  atte  Castell,  Henry  atte  Hull,  John 
Olyver.  Dated  Notfeld,  Friday  after  the  Nativity  of  the  Virgin 
45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  30  October. 

Writing  of  William  Strete,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Sir  William  de 
Cobham  knight,  William  Harewell  clerk,  William  Tarent  clerk  and 
Roger  de  Asshebournliam,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  and 
advowson  of  Notfeld  and  4  marks  of  rent  in  the  towTi  of  Merstham. 
Dated  Notfeld,  Monday  the  feast  of  Michaelmas  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  ackno\\ledgment,  30  October. 

Writing  of  John  de  Stodeye  citizen  and  vintner  of  London,  being 
a  quitclaim  to  Sir  \^' illiam  de  Cobham  knight,  William  Harewell  clerk, 
William  Tarent  clerk  and  Roger  de  Asshebournliam,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Notfeld  and  4  marks  of  rent 
in  the  town  of  Merstham.     Dated  {as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  30  October. 

Wanting  of  Nicholas  Brembre  citizen  of  London,  being  a  quitclaim 
to  Sir  William  de  Cobham  knight,  William  Harewell  clerk,  William 
Tarent  clerk  and  Roger  de  Asshebournham,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of 
the  manor  and  advowson  of  Notfeld  and  4  marks  of  rent  in  the  town 
of  Merstham.     Dated  (as  above). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  30  October. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  la  More  citizen  and  vintner  of  London,  being 
a  quitclaim  to  Sir  William  de  Cobham  knight,  W^illiam  Harewell  clerk, 
WiUiam  Tarent  clerk  and  Roger  de  Asshebournham,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Notfeld  and  4  marks  of  rent 
in  the  town  of  Merstham.     Dated  {as  above). 

Memorandum  of  acknow'ledgment,  30  October. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Albon  citizen  of  London,  being  a  quitclaim  to 
Sir  William  de  Cobham  knight,  William  Harewell  clerk,  WiUiam 
Tarente  clerk  and  Roger  de  Asshebournliam,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 


336  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  lid — cont. 

of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Notfeld  and  4  marks  of  rent  in  the 
town  of  Mersthani.     Dated  (as  above). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  30  October. 

Writing  of  John  Bulbek  and  Thomas  Hancepe,  giving  to  Thomas 
ColsuUe  knight  and  to  his  lieirs  a  .yearly  rent  of  100«.  to  be  taken  of  all 
their  lands  in  Bergholte  Sakevylle  at  Christmas  and  Midsummer  by 
even  portions  during  the  life  of  Margaret  wife  of  Thomas  Hancepe, 
with  pow  er  to  distrain  for  arrears,  under  a  condition  for  defeasance  of 
the  said  rent  if  the  said  Margaret  shall  implead  the  said  Sir  Thomas 
or  his  heirs,  or  shall  recover  dower  against  them  of  lands  which  were 
her  said  husband's  in  Berkshire.  Dated  Bergholte  Sakevylle, 
Saturday  the  feast  of  All  Saints  45  Edward  III.  And  Thomas  Ancepe 
has  delivered  to  Thomas  Colsulle  \2d.  in  name  of  seisin. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  1  November. 

Writing  of  John  Mareys  of  Salcote  Virly  chaplain,  being  a  quitclaim 
to  Sir  Robert  dc  Bourton  par?on  of  South  Wokyngdone  and  Philip 
atte  Biigge,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  right  in  the  tenements  some- 
time of  Richard  Lacer  in  the  city  of  London.  Dated  South 
Wokyngdone,  19  September  42  Edward  III. 

Memcrandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  November  this  year. 

Membrane  \0d. 

Charter  of  Edmund  Giffard  of  Stanlake,  giving  with  warranty  to 
William  Gamboun  and  his  executors,  for  a  great  sum  to  him  the  said 
Edmund  paid,  10/.  of  yearly  rent  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michael- 
mas or  within  the  quinzaines  thereof  by  even  portions  during 
the  said  William's  life  and  one  year  longer  of  the  said  Edmund's 
manor  of  Stanlake  co.  Oxford  and  of  all  other  his  lands 
in  that  town,  of  other  tenements  in  the  town  of  Henlee  upon 
Thames  fcalled  Retherfeld  Pippard  co.  Berks, t  in  the  town  of 
Lethingbourne  co.  Bukingham  and  elsewhere  in  England  whereso- 
ever, the  first  term  beginning  at  Easter  next,  with  powder  to  distrain 
for  arrears  ;  and  in  name  of  seisin  the  said  Edmund  has  with  his  own 
hands  given  him  half  a  mark  in  part  payment  for  the  said  Easter 
term.  Witnesses  :  John  de  Baldyngton  of  the  said  county,  Thomas 
Louedoun,  Richard  Forester  of  Staunton  and  Hugh  his  brother, 
William  de  Whappelade,  Richard  de  Sutton,  John  de  Thornton. 
Dated  Stanlake,  29  October  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  29  October. 

Writing  of  Cicely  Turbervyle  lad}^  of  Hacche  Beauchamp,  being  a 
general  release  to  Sir  Valentine  atte  Forde  of  all  manner  of  actions 
real  and  personal  for  receipt,  debt,  account,  trespass  or  otherwise. 
Dated  16  October  45  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  25  October  at  Dorton  before  the 
abbot  of  Nottele,  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus  potestatem 
which  is  on  the  files  of  chancery  for  this  year. 

Indenture  made  between  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  Edmund  de 
Rye  knight  and  William  Haulay,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to 
the  said  William  and  his  heirs  of  all  right  in  the  manor  of  Wyhum 
sometime  of  her  said  husband,  in  all  other  lands,  rents,  services  and 


45  EDWARD  III. 


337 


1371, 


Membrane  lOd — co7iL 


reversions  which  the  said  William  has  in  demesne  or  in  reversion 
in  the  town  of  Wyhum  or  wheresoever  to  the  said  town  and  manor 
regardant,  and  in  all  other  lands,  rents  and  services  which  he  has  in 
the  town  of  8talynf;lnirgh,  saving  to  her  the  said  Elizabeth  for  her 
life  a  yearly  rent  of  1(5  marks  to  be  rendered  for  the  manor  of  Wyhum 
at  Christmas  and  Midsummer  by  even  portions ;  and  covenant  that 
she  may  distrain  for  arrears  after  ten  days,  and  may  enter  and  hold  the 
same  as  formerly  for  her  life,  as  appears  by  an  indenture  between  the 
said  Elizabeth  and  Sir  Nicholas  de  Rye  her  son.  W^itncsses :  Thomas 
de  Fulnetby  knight,  Robert  Haulay  knight,  William  de  Bclesby, 
James  de  Raygate,  Robert  son  of  Thonuvs  de  Cumberworth,  John 
de  Fulnetby,  John  Burdet  of  Helythorp.  Dated  Monday  after  All 
Saints  45  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  in  the  chancery  at 
Westminster,  9  November. 

Writing  of  Elizabetli  m  ho  was  wife  of  Edmund  de  Rye  knight,  being 
an  attornment  to  Sir  Sayr  de  Rycheford  knight.  Sir  Gervase  de  Clifton 
knight.  Sir  Thomas  de  Newmarche  knight,  John  de  Claymond  and 
others,  and  to  their  heii-s,  in  regard  to  tlie  reversion  of  the  manor  of 
W^yhum,  wliereof  Nicholas  de  Rye  son  and  heir  of  the  said  Edmund 
was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  by  inheritance  after  his  said  father's 
death,  and  assigned  to  the  said  Elizabeth  one  third  in  name  of  dower, 
and  after  leased  to  her  t\\o  thirds  for  her  life,  saving  the  reversion  to 
him  and  his  heirs,  the  said  Nicholas  having  granted  the  reversion  of 
the  whole  manor  to  the  above  named  persons.  Dated  London,  Monday 
after  All  Saints  45  Edward  TIL     French. 

Memorandum  of  ackno\\ledgment,  9  November. 

Writing  of  William  Haulay,  covenanting  to  pay  to  Elizabeth  Avho 
was  wife  of  Edmund  de  Rye  knight,  at  any  place  where  she  dwells 
A\ithin  twelve  leagues  from  Wyhum  in  the  parts  of  Lyndesay  so  that  he 
have  knowledge  thereof,  a  rent  of  16  marks  a  year  which  he  is  bound  to 
pay  to  her  during  her  life  at  Christmas  and  Midsummer  by  even  portions 
for  tlie  manor  of  Wyhum,  sometime  of  her  said  husband,  which  he  the 
said  William  holds  to  him  and  his  heirs.  Witnesses  :  Thomas  de 
Fulnetby  knight,  Robert  Haulay  knight,  Robert  son  of  Thomas  de 
Cumberworth,  John  de  Fulnetby,  John  son  of  John  Burdet  of 
Helythorp.  Dated  London,  Monday  after  All  Saints  45  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  10  November. 

Nov.  12.         Walter  de  Cokeseye  knight  to  John  de  la  Pole  the  elder.  Recogni- 
Westminster.  sance  for  20/.  payable  by  instalments ;   to   be  levied,  in   default  of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Derbysliire. 


Oct.  27.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  ports  of  Jernemuth,  Orewell 

Westminster,  and  London.  Order  to  suffer  Philip  de  Norton  vicar  of  St.  Giles 
without  Crepulgate  in  the  suburb  of  London  in  any  of  the  said  ports 
freely  to  pass  \\  ithout  let  towards  the  court  of  Rome  with  one  yeoman 
taking  lOOs.  for  his  expenses,  any  command  of  the  king  to  them 
previously  addressed  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding  ;  as  the  said 
Pliihp  is  with  the  king's  licence  about  to  journey  thither  for  defence 

CR  22 


338  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  \0d — cont. 

of  his  vicarage,  and  has  found  in  chancery  William  Thorner  and 
Geoffrey  Haveryng  of  London  who  have  niainperned  under  a  pain  of 
200/.  that  ho  shall  attempt  nought  in  the  said  court  which  may  tend 
to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  his  subjects.  By  p.s. 

[Foedera.] 

Oct.  20.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  to  cause  Hugh  de  Dacre  knight 

Wcstrninstor.  to  be  arrested  wherever  found  within  their  bailiwick  and  kept  vmder 
arrest  in  safe  custody  until  he  shall  find  security  to  answer  to  Henry 
de  Percy  concerning  1001.  ;  as  for  certain  damages  and  wrongs  by 
him  committed  upon  the  earl  of  Douglas  of  Scotland  contrary  to  the 
truce  made  between  the  king  and  his  subjects  and  the  men  of  Scotland, 
the  said  Hugh  is  by  inquisition  as  well  of  Englishmen  as  of  Scotsmen 
before  the  guardians  of  the  said  truce  condemned  in  100/.  to  be  paid  at 
a  set  day  to  the  said  earl,  payment  whereof  he  gainsays,  so  far  as  in 
him  lies  breaking  the  conditions  of  the  truce,  wherefore  the  said  Henry 
being  one  of  the  said  guardians  has  contented  the  said  earl  thereof 
as  he  has  certified  in  chancery,  praying  the  king's  aid  for  recovery  of 
the  same. 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  sheriff  of  Northumberland. 

The  sheriff  of  Lincoln. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln.  Order  to  cause  100/.  to  be  levied  of  the 
lands  of  Hugh  de  Dacre  in  his  bailiwick,  and  to  be  delivered  to  Henry 
de  Percy  ;    as  for  certain  damages  etc.  (as  above). 

Membrane  M. 

Charter  of  John  de  Donton  of  Cambridgeshire,  giving  with  warranty 
to  John  Hengstworthe,  Sir  Edward  Chamberlayn  rector  of  Birlee, 
Sir  William  Burgeys  chaplain  and  Hugh  de  Cotyngham,  their  heirs 
and  assigns,  all  the  lands,  meadows,  woods,  feedings,  pastures,  waters, 
ways,  paths,  hedges,  ditches,  ponds,  fishponds,  dovecots,  mills,  rents 
and  services,  homages,  reliefs,  heriots,  escheats,  wards,  marriages, 
suits  of  court  of  free  tenants  and  neifs  and  all  that  goes  with  them  and 
other  commodities  etc.  which  he  lately  had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment 
of  John  de  KelshuU  of  Sibbesseye  co.  Lincoln  in  the  town  and  parish 
of  Heydon  and  Great  Chishull  co.  Essex.  Witnesses  :  John  atte  Barre, 
Thomas  Craunforde,  John  Beauchamp,  John  Loft,  Thomas  Laueney, 
Robert  Basset.  Dated  Heydon,  Thursday  before  St.  Simon  and 
St.  Jude  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  October. 

Writing  of  John  de  KelshuU  of  Sybbessey  co.  Lyncoln,  being  a  grant 
and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  Hengstworth,  Sir  Edward 
Chamberlayn  rector  of  Birlee,  Sir  William  Burgeys  chaplain  and 
Hugh  de  Cotyngham,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  lands  etc.  in  the 
town  and  parish  of  Heydon  and  Great  Chishull  co.  Essex  which  they 
have  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  John  de  Donton  of  Cambridgeshire. 
Witnesses  :  Simon  atte  Grene,  John  Sely,  Elhs  de  Thorp,  Thomas  de 
Wiltesshire,  John  de  Sancto  Neoto,  Adam  Cope,  WilUam  Credil  clerk. 
Dated  London,  Monday  the  eve  of  St.  Simon  and  St.  Jude 
45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  October. 


45  EDWARD  III. 


339 


1371.  Membrane  Urf — cont. 

Writing  of  llobort  do  Oxenford  parson  of  Gnypton,  being  a  quit- 
claim to  Robert  Colle  of  Melton  of  all  right  in  the  manors  of  Brentyngby 
and  Wyvordeby  and  the  advowson  of  Wyvordeby,  the  reversions, 
mills,  homages  and  services  of  all  his  tenants  there  free  and  neifs  and 
all  that  goes  with  them  which  with  the  said  Robert  Colle  and  Richard  de 
Brentyngby  parson  of  W^yvordeby  he  had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of 
William  de  Wodefortl ;  also  in  all  other  the  lands,  rents  and  services,  mills 
and  reversions  etc.  which  they  the  said  Robert,  Richard  and  Robert  had 
of  the  said  William's  gift  and  feoffment  in  Eston,  Northstoke  and  South- 
stoke  CO.  Lincoln  and  in  Brentyngby,  Erlesthorp,  Melton  Moubray, 
Burton  St.  Lazarus,  Stapilford  and  Gnypton  and  the  advowson  of 
Gnypton.  Witnesses  :  Roger  Belers  knight,  James  Belers  knight, 
William  de  Burgh,  Robert  Burgeys  of  Melton,  Geoffrey  de  Segrave, 
John  Orgor  of  Melton  the  elder,  John  Orgor  of  Melton  the  younger. 
Dated  Melton  Moubray,  10  October  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  29  October. 


Oct.  29.  Edmund  Giffard  of  Stanlake  to  William  Gamboun.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  100  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  liis  lands  and 
chattels  in  Oxfordshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


Oct.  30.  William  de  UfTord  earl  of  Suffolk  to  Richard  earl  of  Arundell. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  1,250  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Norfifolk. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  Richard  de  Arundell  son  of 
the  late  earl  and  one  of  his  executors. 


William  de  Ufford   earl  of  Suffolk   to   Richard  earl  of  Arundell. 
Recognisance  for  3,000  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Norffolk. 
Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  {as  the  last). 


Assignment  of  dower  to  Maud  who  was  wife  of  Richard  de  Merton 
of  the  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  which  were  of  her  said  husband 
made  on  Tuesday  after  St.  Bartholomew  45  Edward  III  by 
Thomas  Chambernoun  escheator  in  Devon.  One  knight's  fee  held 
b}'^  John  Lercedeakene  and  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  de  Merton 
in  Nitherham,  Northhole,  Southhole,  Thwengeslegh  and  Spiricombe, 
one  knight's  fee  held  by  John  Bratton  in  Dupeforde  and  Thillyngforde, 
half  a  knight's  fee  held  by  John  A'i\\enham  in  Reston,  half  a  knight's 
fee  held  by  Maurice  de  Berkelegh  in  Dodescote,  three  quarters  of  a 
knight's  fee  held  by  John  Fitzpayn  in  Churiton  Fitzpayn,  and  the 
sixth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  held  by  the  heirs  of  Gilbert  de  Edyngton 
in  Haske  for  her  dower  of  llf  knights'  fees  of  her  said  husband  wliich 
pertain  to  the  town  and  manor  of  Chepyngtoriton  ;  also  the  tliird 
presentation  to  the  church  of  Chepyngtoriton,  and  the  third  presenta- 
tion to  the  chantry  of  the  chapel  of  Chepyngtoriton  castle.  Note  that 
the  escheator  warned  the  said  Richard's  heirs,  who  were  present  at 
the  above  assignment,  also  John  Bitellisgate  representative  of  Thomas 
Stanes,  who  was  not  present,  the  said  Thomas  not  being  in  liis 
bailiwick.     Dated  Exeter  (as  above). 


340 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1372. 

Jan.  14. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  dd — cont. 


William  Oambon  one  of  the  yeomen  of  the  king's  chamber  i.s  sent 
to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Shrewsbury,  to  have  such  maintenance 
for  life  of  that  abbey  as  Roger  de  Clebury  deceased  had  there  at  the 
king's  command.  By  p.s.  [28934.*] 


Jan.  24.         John  Leche  the  king's  serjeant  is  sent  likewise  to  the  prior  and 

Westminster,  convent  of  Daventre   to  have  such   maintenance   as    Alice    Cryour 

deceased  had  at  the  king's  command.  By  p.s.  [28956.] 

1371.  Membrane  8d. 

Writing  of  Ed\\'ard  de  Berkle  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to 
Aubrey  de  Veer,  Arnald  Savage,  Lewis  de  Clifford,  Richard  Story  and 
Richard  de  Ilney  knights,  Hugh  Fastolf  and  Reynold  de  Ecclcs,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  his  estate  in  two  thirds  of  the  manor  of  Rysengles 
CO.  Suffolk,  which  two  thirds  he  holds  for  life  by  the  courtesy  of 
England  after  the  death  of  Joan  late  his  wife,  and  his  executors  and 
assigns  for  one  year  longer  by  confirmation  of  Thomas  de  Sancto 
Omero  knight,  Bartholomew  de  Antyngham  knight  and  Thomas 
Bardolf  cousins  and  heirs  of  the  said  Joan  ;  also  the  third  part  of  the 
said  manor  which  he  lately  held  by  the  courtesy  of  England  with 
reversion  to  Reynold  de  Eccles  and  Richard  de  Waterden  by  grant 
of  the  said  Thomas  de  Sancto  Omero,  the  said  Reynold  and  Richard 
de  Waterden  having  released  the  same  to  him  the  said  Edward  and  his 
heirs.  Witnesses  :  Sir  William  de  Ufford  his  lord  earl  of  Suffolk, 
Sir  William  lord  de  Murlee,  Sir  John  de  Norwych,  Edmund  de  Thorp, 
Thomas  de  Moreus  the  father  knights,  John  Redman,  John  de  Ryssyng'. 
Dated  Rysengles,  Monday  the  eve  of  Martinmas  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  aclcnowledgment,  10  November. 

Writing  of  Edward  de  Berkele  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to 
Aubrey  de  Veer,  Arnald  Savage,  Lewis  de  Clifford,  Richard  Stury  and 
Richard  de  Ilney  knights,  Hugh  Fastolf  and  Reynold  de  Eccles,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  all  his  estate  in  two  thirds  of  the  manor  of  Hykelyng 
CO.  Norffolk  called  the  Netherhalle,  which  two  thirds  he  holds  for  life 
by  the  courtesy  of  England  after  the  death  of  Joan  late  his  wife,  and 
his  executors  and  assigns  for  one  year  longer  by  confirmation  of  Thomas 
de  Sancto  Omero  knight,  Bartholomew  de  Antyngham  knight  and 
Thomas  Bardolf  her  cousins  and  heirs  ;  also  the  third  part  of  the  said 
manor  which  he  lately  held  by  the  courtesy  of  England  with  reversion 
to  RejTiold  de  Eccles  and  Richard  de  Waterden  by  grant  of  the  said 
Thomas,  the  said  Reynold  and  Richard  having  released  the  same  to 
him  the  said  Edward  and  to  his  heirs.  Witnesses  :  Sir  William  de 
Ufford  his  lord  earl  of  Suffolk,  Sir  William  lord  de  Morlee,  Sir  John  de 
Northwych,  Edmund  de  Tiiorp,  Thomas  de  Moreux  the  father,  William 
de  Smalbergh  laiights,  John  de  Falyate,  WilUam  Pynchon,  Walter  Cook. 
Dated  HykeljTig,  Monday  the  eve  of  Martinmas  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  10  November. 

Nov.  15.         John  Coroner  of  Leverjoigton  to  William  de  Mirfeld  clerk.     Recog- 
Westrainster.  nisance  for  10^.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Cambridgeshire. 
Cancelled  on  'payment. 

*  The  warrant  is  dated  18  January. 


45    EDWARD    III.  341 


1871.  Membrane  %d — cont. 

Writing  of  Richard  dc  Spridlyngton  clerk,  being  a  quitclaim  to 
Sir  William  de  Sjiridlyngton  olork  his  brother  of  the  manor  of  Farnebergh, 
the  lordship  and  advowson  thereof,  and  all  other  lands  there.  Dated 
London,  Monday  after  St.  Andrew  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  December. 

Writing  of  Nicholas  de  Carreu,  being  a  letter  of  tittoniey  to  Thomas 
Stanydelve  and  Richard  atte  Felde  to  deliver  to  Walter  Ewcyn  and 
John  Brigg  seisin  of  the  manor  of  Bryghtwell  and  all  lands,  rents, 
services,  homages,  reversions,  bodies  of  neifs  and  all  that  goes  with 
them,  meadows,  pastures,  woods  etc.  in  the  to\vns  and  hamlets  of 
Bryghtwell,  Chalgrave,  Besjmton,  Ewelme,  Brotewell  and  Berewyk 
CO.  Oxford,  according  to  a  charter  of  the  said  Nicholas  to  the  said 
Walter  and  John  made.  Dated  Brigtewell  aforesaid,  1  November 
45  Ed^^■ard  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  9  December. 

Writing  indented  of  Nicholas  de  Carreu,  granting  and  covenanting 
with  John  James  of  Walyngford  that  between  JMidsummer  next  and 
Michaelmas  following  he  will  make  to  the  said  John  or  his  heirs  or 
assigns  a  release  enrolled  in  chancery  with  warranty  in  fee  simple  of 
all  his  right  in  the  manor  of  Brightwell  and  all  the  lands,  rents,  services, 
homages,  reversions,  bodies  of  neifs  and  all  that  goes  with  them,  the 
meadows,  pastures,  woods  etc.  which  he  the  said  Nicholas  had  in  the 
towns  and  hamlets  of  Brightwell,  Chalgrave,  Bens}Titon,  Ewelme, 
Brotewell  and  Berewik  co.  Oxford,  which  release  he  shall  before 
Michaelmas  aforesaid  deliver  at  Westminster  to  the  said  John,  his 
heirs  or  assigns  ;  also  that  he  will  give  diligence  liimself  or  his  lieirs 
to  cause  Henry  the  bastard  son  of  Thomas  Huscarl  son  of  Thomas 
Huscarl  knight  \Aithin  one  year  after  his  coming  of  age,  if  he  shall 
so  long  live,  by  writing  enrolled  in  chancery  to  release  to  the  said  John, 
his  heirs  or  assigns,  all  claim  in  a  yearly  rent  of  10  marks  for  life  by 
grant  of  Reymond  de  Carreu,  John  atte  Thorne  and  Reynald  Sheflfeld, 
and  all  the  said  rent  in  the  premises,  wliich  release  he  the  said  Nicholas 
or  his  heirs  shall  if  possible  \nthin  the  year  aforesaid  deliver  at  West- 
minster to  the  said  Jolin,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  and  that  he  and  his 
heirs  shall  discharge  the  premises  of  the  said  rent,  and  shall  thereof 
acquit  the  said  John,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  during  the  said  Henry's 
life  ;  also  that  Nicholas  eldest  son  of  the  said  Nicholas  shall  within  one 
year  after  his  coming  of  age  make  to  the  said  John,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  a  release  likewise  enrolled  Avith  warranty  of  the  premises  in 
fee  simple,  wliich  release  he  the  said  Nicholas  the  father  shall  within 
the  said  year  deliver  at  Westminster  to  the  said  John,  his  heirs  or 
assigns  ;  also  that  he  shall  give  diligence  that  Agnes  daughter  and 
heir  of  John  Boukode  of  Waljoiton  co.  Surrey,  who  is  within  age,  shall 
within  one  year  after  her  coming  of  age  by  deed  likewise  enrolled 
release  to  the  said  John,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  all  right  in  the  premises, 
wliich  release  he  the  said  Nicholas  or  liis  heirs  shall  if  possible  within 
the  year  aforesaid  deliver  at  Westminster  to  the  said  John,  his  heirs 
or  assigns  ;  and  the  said  Jolin  James  has  granted  and  covenanted  with 
the  said  Nicholas  that,  after  the  release  with  warranty  to  him  the  said 
John  made  as  aforesaid,  he  will  make  a  release  of  such  warranty  in  the 
form  following,  namely  that  he  the  said  John,  liis  heirs  or  assigns,  will 
never  make  demand  for  warranty  upon  the  said  Nicholas  nor  liis  licirs 


342  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  Sd — conl. 

by  way  of  voucher  or  warranty  of  charter,  but  only  against  the  said 
Agnes  and  her  heirs,  saving  to  the  said  John,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the 
advantage  of  such  warranty  against  the  said  Nicholas  and  his  heirs 
by  way  of  bar  ;  that  after  the  release  with  warranty  to  him  made 
as  aforesaid  by  the  said  Nicholas  the  son  he  the  said  John  shall  make 
a  release  of  such  warranty  in  the  form  following,  namely  that  lie  the 
said  John,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  will  never  make  deniand  for  warranty 
upon  the  said  son  nor  his  heirs  by  way  of  voucher  or  warranty  of 
charter,  but  only  against  the  said  Agnes  and  her  heirs,  saving  to  the  said 
John,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the  advantage  of  such  warranty  against 
the  said  son  and  his  heirs  by  way  of  bar  ;  and  that  these  defeasances  of 
warranty  to  be  by  him  made  shall  be  delivered  to  the  said  Nicholas 
the  father  and  Nicholas  the  son  respectively  at  the  time  when  the 
several  releases  aforesaid  shall  be  to  him  delivered.     Dated  Brightwell, 

5  December  45  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  9  December. 

Dec.  7.  Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  made  by  John  de  Neville  knight  for 

Westminster.  Hugh  Redhoo  knight,  that  he  shall  content  the  king  for  a  jewel  called 
'  le  Shephird,'  which  the  said  Hugh  promised  the  king  to  do  before  the 
octaves  of  St.  Hilary  next. 

Dec.  12.  To  Edmund  de  Appelby.  Order  not  to  meddle  henceforth  with 
Westminster.  John  duke  of  Lancastre  and  his  fellows,  guardians  of  the  peace  and 
justices  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  Leycestershire,  to  do  aught  that 
concerns  the  office  of  guardian  and  justice,  although  lately  by  letters 
patent  the  king  appointed  him  Avith  the  said  duke  and  others  so  to 
do  ;  as  it  is  the  king's  will  to  discharge  him  of  the  said  office,  for  that 
he  must  needs  be  occupied  with  other  more  difficult  business.  The 
king  has  commanded  the  said  duke  and  his  fellows  henceforth  to 
proceed  to  execute  their  said  office  without  awaiting  the  presence  of 
the  said  Edmund.  By  K.  and  C. 

Membrane  Id. 

Assignment  of  dower  of  her  husband's  lands  in  his  bailiwick  to 
Maud  who  was  wife  of  Richard  de  Merton,  having  taken  of  her  an 
oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  made  in 
presence  of  John  Gary,  Robert  Chalouns  and  John  Boghewaie  on 
Saturday  after  St.  Lucy  44  Edward  III  by  Thomas  Chaumbernoun 
escheator  in  Devon.  One  messuage  at  Castelvvyke  and  20  acres  of 
land  in  a  field  called  '  Langelond,'  12  acres  of  land  called  ScorfhuUe, 

6  acres  of  land  in  Boghetoune  park,  18  acres  of  land  in  Haigate  park, 
6 J  acres  of  land  in  Cadewille  park,  4|  acres  of  land  in  Northwyke 
park,  and  3  acres  of  land  at  Wipellewille,  which  lands  are  held  for  a 
term  of  years  by  Thomas  de  Aston  and  Joan  his  wife,  Robert  North wik 
and  Thomas  Bryane,  with  the  rents  and  services  of  the  said  tenants, 
as  her  dower  of  the  messuage  of  the  castle  with  the  '  baley  '  and 
demesne  land  of  Wike  and  of  other  the  tenants  for  years  ;  a  third 
part  of  the  garden  lying  by  the  castle,  namely  the  northern  part, 
with  right  of  way  to  the  gate  and  through  the  garden  gate  ;  48  acres 
of  wood  at  Holmslade,  Mersshwode  and  Allerbere  as  her  dower  of  the 
whole  wood  ;  a  third  part  of  two  thirds  of  five  sixths  of  the  mill, 
the  town,  the  fishery  of   Torighe,  the  markets,  view  of  frankpledge 


45    EDWARD   III.  343 


\S71.  Membrane  Id — cont. 

and  perquisites  of  court  of  the  manor  and  town  of  Cliepyngtoriton  ; 
as  her  dower  of  the  rents  of  free  tenants  of  the  manor  tliere  and  of 
Sholoford  mill  13s\  4rZ.  to  be  taken  yearly  of  the  heir  of  Maurice  de 
Berkelegh  for  lands  in  Dodescote,  5s.  of  John  Isac  and  Isabel  his  wife 
for  lands  in  Grithiwissh,  16?.  of  divers  tenants  in  Southeales  for  lands 
held  there,  Ss.  of  John  Walle  for  lands  in  Walleswike,  and  Ss.  Q>d.  of  Arnulf 
Cock  and  Joan  his  wife  for  lands  in  Xorthwode,  with  the  fealty  and 
other  services  of  the  said  tenants  and  their  heirs  ;  as  her  dower  of  the 
rent  of  tenants  of  the  town  of  Cliepyngtoriton  68.s.  yearly,  namely 
of  Thomas  Briane  55.,  of  John  Kist  22d.,  of  Walter  Lodeere  2d.,  of 
Robert  Short  6.5.,  of  the  said  Robert  45.,  of  John  Gregori  65.,  of  Thomas 
Holeman  2\d.,  of  the  heirs  of  Henry  Lewis  \2d.,  of  Thomas  Briene  12'/., 
of  John  Note  Id.,  of  Thomas  Briene  65.,  of  William  Shereforde  25.  Zd., 
of  Walter  Perel  M.,  of  Thomas  Lais  M.,  of  Henry  Wiot  \2d.,  of 
Hugh  Smith  Qd.,  of  John  Peche  M.,  of  John  Burte  2.s.,  of  Adam 
Coterigh  iSd.,  of  Roger  Tavystoke  Qd.,  of  Henry  Wiot  22d.,  of  Joan 
Lyde  4rf.,  of  John  Baget  12c?.,  of  John  Clement  \2d.,  of  the  heirs  of 
John  WoUegh  Sd.,  of  Henry  Ferour  35.  9(/.,  of  Peter  Westelegh  Qd., 
of  Thomas  Cock  '  harsshere '  Zd.,  of  John  Bolaynge  3fZ.,  of  John  Pottcre 
9(i.,  of  Henry  Hoxhulle  Q>d.,  of  Walter  Wodelond  14c?.,  of  William  Burgeis 
3c?.,  of  John  Horwode  3c?.,  of  John  Lepere  6cZ.,  of  John  Perlore  \2d., 
of  William  Smithe  25.  6c?.,  of  Walter  Wayne  \2d.,  of  Agnes  Halswille  8c?., 
of  William  Wenel  25.,  of  William  Webbe  35.  O^d.,  of  John  Hopere  12c?., 
and  of  Robert  Hexetere  45.,  with  the  fealty  and  other  services  of  the 
said  tenants  and  of  their  heirs,  the  reversions  of  the  said  lands  and 
tenements,  the  fines,  reliefs  and  other  profits  etc. 

Writing  of  William  de  la  Lee  of  Lancashire,  giving  to  John  Dovy 
of  London  and  Katherinc  his  wife  for  their  lives  and  the  life  of  the 
longer  liver  a  yearly  rent  of  IOO5.  to  be  taken  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter 
by  even  portions  of  all  his  lands  in  Lancashire,  with  power  to  distrain 
for  arrears  ;  and  the  said  William  has  attorned  to  them  by  payment 
of  6c?.  in  name  of  seisin.  Dated  Monday  the  feast  of  the  Nativity  of 
St.  John  Baptist  44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  12  November  this  year. 

Writing  of  John  son  and  heir  of  John  Denton  of  Newcastle  upon 
Tyne,  being  a  quitclaim  to  the  mayor  and  commonalty  of  the  said 
town  and  to  their  successors  of  three  pieces  of  ground  therein,  one 
called  the  '  Myddyngplace  '  upon  the  Sandhill,  another  called  the 
'  Wyndasplace,'  and  the  third  called  '  Jakemannessough.'  Dated 
Westminster,  14  November  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  18  November. 

Charter  of  Nicholas  de  Carreu,  giving  with  warranty  to  Walter 
Eweyn  and  John  Brigge,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  his  manor  of  Bryht- 
well  and  all  other  his  lands,  rents  and  services,  homages,  reversions, 
bodies  of  neifs  and  all  that  goes  with  them,  meadows,  pastures,  woods 
etc.  in  the  towns  and  hamlets  of  Bryghtwell,  Chalgrave,  Bensynton, 
Ewelme,  Brotewell  and  Berewyk  co.  Oxford.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Baldwin 
de  Bereford,  Sir  Roger  de  Cotesford,  Sir  Gilbert  de  Wace  knights, 
John  de  Rucote,  Thomas  BarentjTi,  John  Baldyngdon,  John  Harwedon, 
John  Park,  Robert  Wouborne,  Nicholas  Tettesworthe,  Walter  Yonge. 
Dated  Bryghtwell,  1  November  45  Edward  III. 


344  CALENDAR    OK    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371.  Meynhrane  Id — conl. 

Writing  of  Nicholas  de  Carreu,  being  a  grant  and  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  Walter  Ewejii  and  John  Brigge,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  the  manor  of  Biightwell  and  all  lands  etc.  in  the  towns  and  hamlets 
of  Brightwell,  Chalgravc,  Bensynton,  Ewelme,  Brotewell  and  Berewyk. 
Witnesses  [as  the  lust).     Dated  Bryght well,  4  December  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  9  December. 

Membrane  Grf. 

Charter  of  Maud  prioress  of  St.  Mary  and  St.  Margaret  Dertford  and 
the  convent,  giving  and  surrendering  with  warranty  to  the  king,  his 
heirs  and  assigns,  all  the  lands  etc.  which  they  lately  had  of  the  grant 
of  John  Brond  chaplain,  and  which  were  of  William  Claptes  and 
Joan  his  wife  in  the  town  of  Dertford,  Stone,  Wilmyngton  and  Suth- 
flete,  also  a  messuage  in  the  said  town  which  they  had  of  the  gift  of 
John  dc  Cherteseye,  three  messuages  there  w  hich  were  of  Roger  Folke, 
2  acres  of  land  there  which  they  had  of  the  gift  of  Simon  Kegworth, 
a  tenement  in  the  city  of  London  which  was  of  Robert  de  Bourton  and 
John  de  Legyton  executors  of  Robert  de  Hanwode  late  citizen  and 
merchant  of  London,  and  all  tenements  in  the  said  city  in  the  parish  of 
St.  Martin  without  Lodegate,  in  Fletestrete,  in  the  parish  of 
St.  Martin  Orgars  by  Ebegate,  in  the  parish  of  St.  Katherine,  within 
the  churchyard  of  Holy  Trinity  the  Great  within  Algate  which  were 
of  Augustine  Walays,  the  rents  and  services  of  two  messuages  and 
three  shops  in  Cordewanerstrete  in  the  said  city  held  of  the  said  priory 
for  life  by  James  Andre  we,  and  the  reversion  thereof,  the  manor  of 
Shibbourne  co.  Kent  with  rents  and  services  in  Mallynge,  the  manor 
of  Hecchesham  cos.  Surrey  and  Kent  and  all  their  lands  in  Putfold 
CO.  Surrey,  the  rents  and  services  of  all  their  tenants  there  and  the 
reversions  thereof,  the  manors  of  Braundeston  and  Combes  co.  Suffolk, 
and  of  Norton  and  Fifhide,  all  their  lands,  rents  and  services,  escheats 
and  reversions  in  Billegh,  Emewell,  Trowe,  Westwy  thy  hull,  Were- 
moustre,  Bourton  atte  Nasse,  Wilton,  Gerardeston,  Rolveston  and 
Purbik  and  all  the  members,  advowsons,  knights'  fees  etc.  thereof 
in  Wiltesir  and  Dorset,  the  manors  of  Colwenston  and  Molteston  in 
Wales,  and  of  Great  Belstede  with  the  church  of  Wasshebrouk  and 
Velchurch  to  them  appropriated,  the  advowsons  of  Alfreton  church, 
of  the  vicarage  of  Wasshebrouk  and  Velchurch  and  other  liberties  etc. 
in  Suffolk.     Dated  Dertford,  6  April  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Dertford  19  December  before 
Thomas  de  Lodelowe  and  Robert  Bealknap,  by  virtue  of  the  king's 
writ  of  dedimus  potestaiem  which  is  on  the  files  of  chancery  for  this  year. 

Charter  of  Alice  Perers,  giving  with  warranty  to  the  king  and  his 
heirs  all  her  lands  which  she  lately  had  in  the  towns  of  Dertford, 
WilmjTigton,  Stone,  Southflete  and  Merssh  co.  Kent  of  the  gift  and 
feoffment  of  Nicholas  de  Holbourne  citizen  of  London,  also  two 
messuages  in  Dertford  with  houses  thereupon  built,  the  gardens  and 
curtilages  adjoining  and  other  appurtenances  which  she  sometime  had 
of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Thomas  de  Beere  rector  of  St.  Michael 
Paternostercherche  London  and  John  de  Brewode  rector  of  Fotescreye 
CO.  Kent,  situate  together  between  a  messuage  of  Geoffrey  Gonhale 
towards  the  west,  a  messuage  of  the  prioress  of  Dertford  (sometime 


45  EDWARD  III.  345 


1371.  Membrane  Gd — cant. 

of  Alexander  Fulk  clerk)  towards  the  east,  the  high  street  towards  the 
south  and  Trovillcslane  towards  the  north,  with  the  services  of  the 
free  tenants  and  neifs,  escheats,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  meadows, 
feedings,  pastures,  woods,  liberties,  commodities  and  all  other  profits 
thereto  belonging.  Witnesses  :  Roger  Digge,  Richard  Sony,  GeofTrey 
Gonhale,  William  Boole  and  Richard  Manyware  of  Dertford.  Dated 
Dertford,  10  December  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  the  New  Temple  London 
17  December,  before  William  de  Burstall  keeper  of  the  rolls  of  chancery. 

Memorandum  that  on  22  December  at  the  friars  preachers  London 
the  two  foregoing  charters  were  delivered  to  Richard  Lescrope  the 
treasurer  for  safe  keeping  in  the  treasury. 

Oct.  9.  To  the  sheriff  of  Somerset.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John   le 

Westminster.  Lange  and  John  Hubel  of  Briggewauter,  Flemings,  if  they  being  by 
the  sheriff  taken  and  imprisoned  shall  find  mainpernors  for  whom  the 
sheriff  will  answer  who  will  mainpern  for  the  good  behaviour  of  either 
of  them  henceforward  towards  the  king  and  his  people,  and  that  they 
shall  not  leave  the  said  town  without  the  king's  licence  but  therein 
continually  abide  truly  plying  their  crafts  and  labouring,  to  set  them 
free  from  custody  so  to  do  in  the  said  town  and  the  suburb  thereof 
towards  tlie  maintenance  of  the  king's  lieges  therein,  certifying 
without  delay  in  chancery  the  manner  and  form  of  such  mainprise, 
the  mainpernors'  names,  and  all  his  action  in  the  matter  ;  as  lately 
the  king  made  order  for  the  arrest  of  all  men  of  Flanders  in  England 
and  of  their  goods  and  chattels,  for  keeping  their  bodies  in  safe  and 
honourable  custody  and  safe  guarding  their  goods  and  chattels  until 
further  order  :  and  now  on  behalf  of  the  said  John  and  John  the  king 
has  learned  that  by  colour  of  that  order  the  sheriff  has  taken  them 
and  is  imprisoning  them  in  the  said  town,  and  has  deferred  and  is 
yet  deferring  to  deliver  them  from  custody  bj^  a  mainprise  although 
many  times  they  have  offered  mainpernors  for  their  good  behaviour, 
wherefore  they  have  prayed  the  king  of  his  favour  to  make  provision 
for  their  security  seeing  that  they  have  committed  no  fault  in  the 
sight  of  the  king  or  any  of  his  people.  Proviso  that  their  goods  and 
chattels,  if  any  be  arrested,  shall  be  safe  kept  under  arrest  as  aforesaid. 

Oct.  IG.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Lenne  Episcopi.     Like  order,  upon 

Westminster,  petition  made  on  bclialf  of  a  great  number  of  men  of  Flanders  ;  as  lately 
the  king  ordered  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  to  arrest  all  men  of  Flanders 
in  the  said  town  and  the  suburl)  thereof,  and  their  goods  and  chattels, 
keeping  their  bodies  in  sure  and  honourable  custody  and  safe  guarding 
their  goods  and  chattels  until  further  order  \\'ithout  removal  of  aught, 
as  they  would  answer  it  to  the  king  and  the  said  Flemings  ;  and  by 
colour  of  his  command  the  mayor  and  bailiff's  have  taken  and  are 
imprisoning  a  great  number  of  Flemings,  as  the  king  has  learned,  and 
have  deferred  etc.  {as  the  last).     Proviso  (as  above). 

Oct.  20.  To  William  de  Ufford  earl  of  Suffolk.     Order  to  stay  altogether  the 

Westminster,  taking  of  the  body  of  John  Latymer  of  Norwych  by  mainprise  of 
William  Clere,  AValter  de  Berneye,  William  de  Berghe,  Robert  Wayte 
of  Horsford,  John  de  Foxle  and  Robert  de  Elyngham  of  Norffolk, 
although  the  king  lately  appointed  the  said  earl  to  arrest  and  take 
liim  wherever  found  and  deliver  him  to  the  sheriff  of  Xorffolk  to  be 


346  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  Qd — cont. 

kept  in  sure  custody  in  the  prison  of  Norwich  castle  until  the  king 
should  command  his  deliverance  ;  as  the  said  mainpernors  appearing 
in  person  in  chancery  have  bound  themselves  jointly  and  severally  in 
200il.,  in  case  one  of  them  be  not  sufficient  for  payment  binding  them- 
selves jointly  to  content  the  king  for  him,  to  have  the  said  John's 
body  before  the  king  and  council  wheresoever  and  whensoever  the 
king  will  in  order  to  stand  to  right  touching  the  things  which  shall  by 
the  king  and  council  be  set  forth,  and  for  his  good  and  peaceable 
behaviour  toward  the  king  and  his  people,  and  his  obedience  to  the 
bailiffs  and  others  who  have  the  governance  of  the  said  city,  that  he 
shall  not  make  nor  procure  assemblies,  confederacies,  gatherings  or 
aught  else  that  may  tend  to  disturbance  of  the  peace,  and  that  in  case 
he  shall  hear  report  or  have  knowledge  of  assemblies  etc.  being  made 
in  the  said  city  by  any  such  evildoers  he  shall  without  delay  cause 
warning  to  be  given  to  the  bailiffs  and  others  who  have  the  governance 
thereof.  By  p.s.   [28845.] 

1372. 

Jan.  5.  William  de  Wyngefeld  knight,  John  de  Pelham  clerk  and  Simon 

Westminster.  Longe  to  Richard  de  Ravenesere  keeper  of  the  hanaper  of  chancery 
and  John  de  Wythoi-nwyk  clerk.  Recognisance  for  60/.,  to  be  levied, 
in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Suffolk. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  WilUam, 
John  de  Pelham  and  Simon  shall  pay  29/.  05.  4|(Z.  in  the  octaves  of  the 
Purification  next. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  John  de  Wythornwyk. 

1371  Membrane  5d. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Benjoigton  of  Hobrigge  co.  Essex,  being  a 
quitclaim  with  warranty  to  William  de  Benyngton,  Edmund 
Bendyssh  and  William  Nobet,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands, 
rents  and  services  with  their  commodities  etc.  Avhich  they  purchased 
of  him  the  said  Thomas  in  the  towns  of  Wytteham,  Writtele,  Wikham, 
Hatfeld  and  elsewhere  in  Essex.  Witnesses  :  Simon  MacchjTigge, 
John  Squier,  John  Irmonger,  Richard  Kene,  John  Clerk.  Dated  the 
parish  of  St.  Sepulchre  without  Newgate  London,  the  feast  of  the 
Nativity  of  St.  John  Baptist  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  November. 

Nov.  28.         William  de  Kerdeston  knight  of  Norffolk  to  John  de  Burgherssh 
Westminster,  knight  of  Essex.     Recognisance  for  1,000/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Norffolk. 

John  de  Burgherssh  knight  of  Essex  to  William  de  Kerdeston 
knight  of  Norffolk.  Recognisance  for  1,000/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in 
Essex. 

Nov.  29.         Phihp   Holgote    to    Godfrey   Foljaumbe    knight    and    William   de 
Westminster.  Bucbrugge  clerk.     Recognisance  for  20  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in 
Herefordsliire. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  William. 

Nov.  29.         Roger  de  Newenham  of  Da  ventre  to  Robert  de  Muskham  clerk 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  19/.  4<s.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Norhamptonshire. 


45    EDWARD    III.  347 


1371.  Membrane  5d — cont. 

\\'iiting  of  Bartholomew  Picot  knight,  one  of  the  executors  of 
Lionel  duke  of  Clarence,  being  a  release  to  John  atte  Wodc  knight 
of  all  actions,  claims  and  demands  by  him  the  said  Bartholomew  and 
the  other  executors  concerning  6,000  florins  of  Florence  which  the 
said  John  received  of  the  said  duke  as  a  loan  for  his  deliverance. 
Dated  Westminster,  1  December  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  1  December. 

Dec.  3.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiflFs  of  Bristol.    Order  on  sight  of  these  presents 

Westminster,  forthwith  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  in  the  said  town  and  the 
suburbs  thereof  on  the  king's  behalf  forbidding  any  man  of  whatsoever 
estate  or  condition  to  cause  any  trouble,  hurt,  violence,  hindrance  or 
grievance  to  the  merchants  of  Portyngale  coming  with  goods  and 
merchandise  within  the  realm,  there  abiding,  plying  their  traffic  and 
thence  returning  to  their  own  parts,  but  commanding  them  to  entreat 
the  said  merchants  kindly  as  the  king's  friends  and  well  wishers  and 
hold  intercourse  with  them  with  favour,  provided  the  said  merchants 
ply  lawful  traffic,  truly  paying  to  the  king  customs,  subsidies  and 
duties  as  they  ought  to  do,  and  if  any  of  their  goods  and  merchandise 
be  arrested  in  the  said  to^vn  by  reason  of  enmity  and  not  otherwise, 
order  to  cause  the  same  to  be  dearrested  and  restored  to  them  without 
delay ;  as  with  assent  of  the  council  the  king's  wdll  is  that  the  said 
merchants  may  come  within  the  realm  with  goods  and  merchandise, 
ply  their  traffic  therein  and  make  their  advantage  thereof,  provided 
they  ply  lawful  traffic,  paying  customs,  etc.,  as  aforesaid. 

[Fosdera.] 

The  like  to  the  bailiffs  of  Barstaplc  and  nine  other  towns,  the  mayor 
and  bailififs  of  the  city  of  Exeter  and  five  other  cities  and  towns. 

[Ibid.] 

Writing  of  Nicholas  de  Carreu,  being  a  letter  of  intendence  addressed 
to  all  his  free  tenants  in  the  manor  of  Bryghtwell  and  the  towns  and 
hamlets  of  Bryghtwell,  Chalgrave,  Bensynton,  Ewelme,  Brotewell  and 
Berewyk  co.  Oxford,  in  favour  of  W^alter  Eweyn  and  John  Brygge, 
he  the  said  Nicholas  having  by  charter  given  to  them,  their  heirs  and 
assigns  for  term  of  his  life,  his  said  manor  and  all  his  lands,  rents, 
services,  homages,  reversions,  bodies  of  neifs  and  all  that  goes  with  them, 
his  meadows,  pastures,  woods  etc.  in  the  towns  and  hamlets 
aforesaid.     Dated  Bryghtwell,  1  November  45  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment.  9  November. 

Indenture  witnessing  that  whereas  Nicholas  de  Carreu  has  made  a 
lease  for  term  of  his  life  with  clause  of  warranty  to  Walter  Eweyn  and 
John  Brygge,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Bryghtwell 
and  all  his  lands,  rents,  services,  homages,  reversions,  bodies  of  neifs 
and  all  that  goes  with  them,  his  meadows,  pastures,  woods  etc.  in 
tlie  towns  and  hamlets  of  Bryghtwell,  Chalgrave,  Bensynton,  Ewelme, 
Brotewell  and  Berewyk  co.  Oxford,  and  likewise  a  deed  of  quitclaim 
with  warranty  of  the  premises  in  fee  simple,  the  said  Walter  and 
John  hereby  grant  that  they,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  shall  not  claim 
those  warranties  against  the  said  Nicholas  nor  his  heirs  by  way  of 
voucher  to  warranty  nor  b}^  writ  of  warranty  of  charter,  if  it  be  not 
against  Agnes  daughter  and  heir  of  John  Boukode  of  Walinton  and 


348 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  bd — cent. 

her  heirs  only,  saving  to  them  the  advantage  of  the  said  warranties 
to  bar  any  claim  of  the  said  Nicholas  and  his  heirs  in  the  premises. 
Dated  Bryghtwell,  5  December  45  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandinn  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  9  December. 


Dec.  13.  Thomas  de  Bass\Tigbourne  knight  late  sheriff  of  Essex  and  Hertford, 

Westminster.  John  Reymund  and  Geoffrey  Colvyle  the  elder  to  the  king.     Joint 

and  several  recognisance  for   113/.   payable  by  instalments  ;    to  be 

levied,    in    default    of    payment,    of    their    lands    and    chattels   in 

Hertfordshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  as  appears  by  certificate  of  the  treasurer  and 
the  chamberlains  sent  into  chancery  at  the  king's  command. 

Memorandum  that  the  mainprises  taken  and  returned  in  chancery 
by  William  earl  of  Suffolk  touching  the  men  of  Norwich  are  upon  the 
files  among  the  king's  writs  for  this  year. 

Dec.  27.  Walter  Bacheler  of  Bytherne  chaplain  to  Richard  de  Bedyk  clerk 

Westminster,  and  Hugh  de  Mitford.     Recognisance  for  200  marks,  to  be  levied,  in 
default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Huntingdonshire. 

Memorandum   tliat   this   recognisance   was   taken    by   Michael   de 
Ravendale  clerk,  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus  potestatem 
wliich  is  on  the  file  for  this  year. 
1372. 
Jan.  20.         Andrew  Humer  of  Chilton  to  William  de  CUfton  clerk. 
Westminster,  for  10/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Somerset. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


Recognisance 


1371. 


Membrane  4d. 


Assignment  of  dower  to  Margaret  who  was  Avife  of  William  Ferrars 
of  Groby  knight,  made  29  May  45  Ed\vard  III  by  John  Welde 
escheator  in  Essex  in  presence  of  William  de  Lyndesell  and  Sir  Walter 
Dounwych  attorneys  of  Luke  de  Ponynges  lord  de  Seint  John,  John 
Boteler,  WilHam  Pyrie  and  Jolm.  Blakewyn.  A  third  part  of  the 
manor  of  Stebbynge,  namely  of  the  houses  one  great  chamber  at  the 
end  of  the  hall  on  the  west  side  and  one  closet  and  chapel  with  a 
green  grass  plot  at  the  end  of  the  chapel,  two  small  chambers  with  a 
Avardrobe  at  the  end  of  the  said  chapel,  four  chambers  opposite  the 
said  great  chamber,  namely  from  the  '  gathous  '  of  the  lodging  toAvards 
the  '  park,'  one  tiled  house  called  the  '  gemer '  and  the  '  hennecoote,' 
one  house  called  '  larderhous,'  one  grange  called  the  '  otebeme,'  and  one 
house  extending  from  the  '  osthous '  to  the  '  Scottes  shepene,' 
one  sheepcot  house  called  the  '  eldeschepecote  '  ;  a  third  part  of  two 
water  mills  AA-ith  the  '  millepond,'  and  a  third  part  of  the  river  (ripar)  ; 
a  garden  called  the  '  shepenegardjm  '  by  the  sheepcot  house,  1  acre 
1  rood  of  the  '  Aldeker  '  A\ithin  the  close  by  the  '  Parkmede,'  a  third 
part  of  the  garden  AAithin  the  manor  close  extending  from  the 
'  Alderker  '  to  '  Carte resmor,'  a  third  part  of  the  doA^ecot,  a  third 
part  of  the  profits  of  Stebbyngge  market  and  fair  {nundinarum)  ; 
in  '  Peselond  '  and  '  Kechenefeld  '  six  score  acres  as  enclosed  by  hays 
and  ditches,  in  '  Lymkelnefeld  '  20  acres  of  arable  land  as  enclosed,  in 
Little  '  Bruggefeld  '  30  acres  as  enclosed,  and  in  '  Stangete,'  30  acres 
as  enclosed  all  about ;  in  '  Holemede  '  9  acres  3  roods  of  meadow  as 
enclosed  by  hays  and  ditches,  in  '  Langemade  '  by  '  Turpet '  2  acres 


45   EDWARD  III.  349 


1371.  Membrane  id — cont. 

of  meadow  on  the  *  west '  side  ;    in  the  '  Riisshet '  2  acres  1  rood  of 

pasture  l)y  the  '  park  '  ;   as  tlie  third  part  of  the  park  in  the  Iloweney 

14  acres,  in  the  '  hxunde  '  there  abutting  on  the  said  wood  31  acres 

3  roods  as  divided  by  metes  and  bounds  ;   in  '  Stistedegrove  '  2^  acres 

of  wood  as  enclosed  ;    a  tliird  ])art  of  the  court  with  the  view  ;    the 

rents  of  the  free  tenants  following,  namely  the  manor  of  Lacheley 

8s.  Id.  a  year,  Richard  Hatfeld  G.9.  4.^^/.,  Richard  Drane  4s.  2d.,  John 

Amew  6^.,  Sara  Haukyn  2.v.  Hd.,  Robert  Stone  3s.  Sd.,  John  Styred 

2s.  Old.,  John  Styred,  John  Folk  and  Richard  Hasfeld  id.,  John  atte 

Cherche    12^?.,    William   Clerk   5^d.,    Thomas    Mullere    M.,    Richard 

Partrich  Hd.,  William  le  Cook  2s.,  John  le  Hoke  Id.,  John  Wilchard 

Is.  6c/.,  John  Gerard  id.,  Alice  wlio  was  wife  of  Martin  Fullere  12f/., 

John  Brightman  id.,  Lucy  Wilchard  5|c?.  ;    the  neif  tenants  following 

with  their  works,  paying  the  rents  hereinafter  mentioned  at  Michaelmas 

Christmas,  Easter  and  Midsummer,  Henry  Alard  65.  Id.  a  year,  Alice 

Sigor  13s.  2d.,  Walter  Broun  6s.  Id.,  Alice  Littles  6s.  Id.,  John  le 

Clerk  6s.  Id.,  Robert  Ram  6s.  Id.,  Robert  Saman  6s.  Id.,  John  Cokstoun 

6s.  Id.,  Henry  Porlek  2s.  5.Vi.,  Richard  Horn  ll^d.,  Stephen  Stokkeleye 

ild.,  Richard  Hohere  3|r/.,  Walter  Broun  13i5.,  Alice    Ly teles    16^., 

Alice  Kirkeby  2s.  lid!.,  Jolm  atte  Bregge  3s.  3d.,  Robert  Ram  id., 

John  Goldyng  lid.,  John  Caryng  i^d.,  John  Rjdtelot  2s.  3|<Z.,  John 

Mellere  of  Chaur'  16(/.,  Robert  Broun  lOd.,  John  Pulko  5d.,  John  le 

Herde  13c/.,  Robert  Ram  3^d.;   of   the  farm  of  a  messuage  and  2  acres 

of  land  of  Cadehud's  tenement  2s.   6d.,  of  Boydenis  tenement  4s., 

of  one  virgate  of  land  sometime  of  Hugh  Martyn  demised  to  John 

Martyn  22s.,  of  10  acres  3  roods  of  land  in  '  Wellefeld  '  on  the  '  est ' 

side  demised  to  John  Wilchard  10s.,  of  1|  rood  of  land  in  '  Wynardes- 

feld  '  on  the  north  side  demised  to  William  Pirie  4c/.,  of  2|  acres  of  land 

in  '  Eldebery  Breggefeld  '  on  the  west  side  demised  to  Thomas  atte 

Gate  2s.  6c/.  ;    Richard  Drane  at  Easter  2  '  capoun,'  Henry  Alard  at 

Easter  one  '  capoun,'  Maud  Gerard  and  William  Pake  and  John  Pake 

one   '  capoun,'   John   Woley  one   '  capoun,'   of  Steyles   tenement  at 

Christmas  one  hen,  of  Heyes  and  Kcmpes  tenements  two  hens,  of 

Steyles,  Kcmpes  and  Heyes  tenements  22  eggs,  of  Robert  Stone's 

tenement  at  Michaelmas  two  plough  shares,  of  Lacheley's  tenement 

at  Michaelmas  1/6.  of  pepper,  of  Nereleys  fee  a  third  part  of  ^Ib.  of 

pepper,  of  William  Bacoun  at  Michaelmas  ^Ib.  of  cumin,  of  William 

Kyng  at  Michaelmas  a  third  part  of  |/6.  of  cumin,  of  John  Longe  one 

red  rose  ;    of  cottagers'   tenements,   Edith  Mounteney   12d.  a  year, 

Richard  Taillour  6c/.,  Agnes  Pake  Jc/.,  Sara  Wille  2c/.,  John  Cotat  l^d., 

Richard  Drane  in  the  hands  of  John  Baroun  3c/.,  Alice  Cotel   Id., 

William  Loraunce  Id.;    of  Hugh  Tylere  a  rent  of  18c/.  a  year,  Stephen 

Fraunkelej'n  4s.,  William  Pyrie  for  Xerleys  Gd.,  the  said  William  l|c/., 

William  Dyere  2s.,  Robert  Ram  5c/.,  Katherine  who  was  wife  of  John 

Longe  Id.  ;    a  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Wodeham,  namely  one  great 

tiled  grange  by  Wodeham  church  on  the  south  side,  a  third  part  of  the 

dovecot  and  windmill  ;     in  '  Morefeld  '  22^  acres  of    arable  land  as 

enclosed  by  hays  and  ditches,  in  "  Estfeld  '  20  acres  as  enclosed,  in 

Cheredoun  60  acres  on  the  west  side  as  appears  by  metes  and  bounds  ; 

in  '  Estmede  '  5  acres  of  meadow  for  mowing  as  enclosed  by  hays  ; 

in  '  Moremede  '  5  acres  of  pasture,  in  one  croft  by  the  highway  abutting 

upon  '  Estmede  '    1   acre  of  pasture,  in   '  Shetebrooke  '   6^  acres  of 

pasture  abutting  upon  the  highway  to^\■ards  the  church  ;    a  third  part 

of  the  park  from  the  '  parkgate  '  towards  '  Stistedehooke  '  and  thence 


350  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  4(1 — cont. 

towards  the  '  haspe  '  beyond  '  Shoberypet '  called  the  '  Eldetaile' 
and  the  '  Nevvetaile  '  towards  the  common  ;  in  the  Frith  10  acres  of 
wood  abutting  upon  the  common  towards  Bynakre,  in  the  Hoo  by 
the  highway  towards  the  church  4  acres  of  wood  ;  the  third  part 
of  the  court  and  '  lete  '  to  this  parcel  pertaining,  a  third  part  of  tlie 
profits  arising  from  the  market  and  fair  (de  nundinis)  at  Wodeham 
Ferers  ;  the  free  tenants  following  paj'ing  the  rents  hereinafter 
mentioned,  namely  John  de  Wodeham  5s.  a  year,  Thomas  Ballard 
25.  lie?.,  William  Hykelot  2s.  4rf.,  Thomas  Oliver  M.,  John  de  Purlee  55.. 
Robert  Story  'is.  \d.,  Nicholas  Piper  3s.,  Isabel  Syry  3r/.,  John  Ferrers 
3s.  Id.,  Thomas  London  12(/.,  Peter  Foulere  2d.,  John  Eyr  2s.  4d., 
Walter  Perot  25.,  Stephen  Hore  12c/.,  Richard  Stace  20(/.,  Walter 
Letyn  20(/.,  John  Rede  and  John  Boyn  2s.  Ad.,  John  Knottyng  \2d., 
John  Hourt  6f/.,  John  Letyn  \\d.,  Huthum's  tenement  2s.  Ad.,  Hele- 
wise  Bollok  2s.  Ad.  ;  the  neif  tenants  following  with  their  works  and 
the  yearly  rents  hereinafter  mentioned  at  the  four  principal  feasts, 
Edward  de  Wodeham  doing  four  works  in  '  wyntour,'  John  Combe 
paying  Ad.  a  year  and  doing  one  w  ork  in  '  wyntour,'  reaping  half  an 
acre,  one  fork  in  '  Estmede,'  one  hoe  for  half  a  day,  Wilham  Wrighte 
3s.  2d.,  one  work,  one  fork  in  the  meadow,  Agnes  Peek  2s.  8c?.,  John 
Cloville  3s.  3c/.  and  other  services  as  appears  by  the  extent ;  the 
following  tenements  and  the  farms  thereof,  namely  of  Robert  Pottere 
for  Bodisshot  18s.  4c/.,  of  Richard  Stace  for  Clymmote's  tenement  185., 
of  John  Wodeham  the  elder  4s.  8c/.,  of  Arthur  atte  Helle  3s.,  of  John 
atte  Rede  for  Mothawe  in  parcel  Z\d.,  of  Alice  Wareyn  \lh.  of  cumin, 
of  Aj^othe's  tenement  one  third  of  \lb.  of  cumin,  of  Norman's  tenement 
half  a  plough  share  and  a  third  part  of  half  a  plough  share,  of  Norman's 
tenement  one  bushel  of  oats,  of  Spycer's  tenement  a  third  part  of  one 
bushel  of  oats. 

Assignment  of  dower  to  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  WilUam  de 
Ferrariis  of  Groby  knight,  made  4  June  45  Edward  III  by  John  Rous 
escheator  in  Leycestershire  in  presence  of  Alan  de  Sutton  attorney 
of  Luke  de  Ponynges  lord  de  Seint  John  to  whom  the  king  has  com- 
mitted the  wardship  of  all  the  said  William's  lands  until  the  lawful 
age  of  his  heir,  and  of  Simon  Pakemon  attorney  of  the  said  Margaret. 
A  third  part  of  the  manor  house  of  Groby,  namely  one  great  chamber 
called  the  '  whit  chambre  '  with  one  cellar  below  the  same  called  the 
'  wjTi  celer,'  two  chambers  abutting  towards  the  '  north  '  with  two 
wardrobes,  a  chamber  with  a  wardrobe  below  the  said  two  chambers 
where  Robert  Bradenham  used  to  lie,  two  chambers  at  the  end  of 
the  '  whit  chambre  '  above  the  door  of  the  '  wyn  celer,'  two  chambers 
called  the  '  tayleryes '  extending  to  the  chamber  called  Sir  Thomas  de 
Ferrariis'  chamber,  a  chapel  called  the  '  oldechapele  '  with  the 
cloister  by  the  same  towards  the  '  south,'  one  house  called  the  '  culne- 
hous  '  with  the  double  gate  [porta  geminata) ,  all  the  piece  of  ground 
between  the  '  culnehous  '  anci  garden  called  the  '  TourhuUe  ^  towards 
the  '  south '  with  the  great  gate  called  the  '  chapelesgate,'  a  grange  called 
the  '  heyberne  '  and  a  long  house  called  the  '  shepecote,'  a  house 
called  the  "  bailies  chambre  '  with  all  houses  under  the  roof  thereof, 
a  dovecot  by  the  said  house,  and  all  the  piece  of  ground  abutting  on 
the  byre  towards  the  '  est  '  in  length  and  breadth  between  the  sheepcot 
house  and  the  '  wayour  '  even  to  the  gate  called  '  Bernerdesgates,' 
with  free  ingress  and  egress  night  and  day  and  all  other  easements  of 


45  EDWARD   III.  351 


1371.  Membrane  4(1 — cont. 

the  '  wayour  '  by  the  manor  gate  ;  also  a  third  part  of  the  forge  house, 
a  third  part  of  the  garden  called  the  'Tourhulle'  towards  the  'west' 
as  ap])ears  by  metes  and  bounds,  a  third  part  of  the  garden  namely 
from  the  '  popeler  dyche  '  towards  the  '  est  '  in  length  and   breadth 
as  Isabel  who  was  wife  of  Henry  de  Ferrers  lately  held  in  dower :  in 
the  field  towards  Colnefeld,  a  third  part  of  a  furlong  called  the  '  Pott- 
hegges  '  by  land  of  John  le  Tartar  towards  the  south,  a  third  part  of 
a  furlong  called  the  "  CJlenefeld  Hole  '  by  land  of  John  Bigge  towards 
the   '  south,'   a   third  part  of  a  furlong  called  the   '  Croweacre  '   by 
'  Ijnix'verde  '  :    in  the  field  towards  Ansty,  a  third  ))art  of  a  furlong 
called  the  '  Ansty  Mere  '  by  land  of  John  Hunte,  a  third  part  of  a 
furlong  called  the  '  Morforlond  '  by  the  town  field  of  Groby,  a  third 
part  of  the  '  Middclfurlong  '  by  a  field  of  Ansty  called  the  '  Fremannes- 
lond,'  a  third  j)art  of  a  furlong  called  the  "  Littelberche  '  by  Neuton 
field  :    in  the  field  towards  Roteby,  a  third  part  of  a  furlong  called 
the  '  Londmedew  ong  '  by  land  of  Jolin  Swette,  a  third  part  of  a  furlong 
called  '  Londw  ong  '  by  land  of  John  Bigge  :    of  meadow  for  mowing, 
a  third  part  of  '  Glenefeldmedewe  '  towards  Glenefeld,  a  third  part  of 
'  Erlesmedewe  '    towards    Ansty    '  melne,'    a   third    part   of    '  Cossil 
medewe  '  towards  Groby  town  meadow  :   park  and  pasture,  the  whole 
of  Bradgate  park  as  enclosed  by  walls,  ditches,  hays  and  palings,  one 
whole  enclosure  called  the  '  Shetehegges  '  as  enclosed  by  walls,  ditches 
and    hays,  the  wliole  of    the  '  Blakeheye  '  as  enclosed,  a  third  part 
called  the  '  Ladyes  Heye,'  a  third  part  of  '  Stywordesheye  '  towards 
the  *  est,'  a  third  part  of  the  '  waste  '  of  Charnwode  with  all  profits 
and  appurtenances  :    one  whole  fish  pond  called  the  '  Xere  Mulnepol  ' 
with  the  pond  and  the  '  cowail  '  as  long  and  as  broad  as  it  used  to 
extend  (refolere),  with  the  "  bayes  '  and  the  '  elwhicche  '  ;   a  third  part 
of  the  profit  of  the  water  mill  doing  a  third  part  of  the  costs,  a  third 
part  of  the  profit  and   the  perquisites  of  courts  of  the  honour  of 
Wyncestre,  and  of  the  view  of  frankpledge  of  the  said  honour  as  well 
in   Warwickshire   as   in   Leycestershire,   a   third   of   the   profit    and 
perquisites  of  the  view  of  frankpledge  of  the  manor  of  Groby  and  of 
the  '  SManymot,'  the  '  tak  '  of  pigs  called  "  thiltcstak,'  and  a  third  part 
of  those  hens  which  shall  be  levied  within  the  lordship  of  Groby  called 
the  '  wodehennes,'  as  weW  of  Thurgarston  as  of  other  towns,  a  third 
part  of  the  service  and  office  of "  couperie,'  and  a  third  part  called  '  above- 
tounlond  '  in  Thurgarston  :    the  following  tenants  with  their  works 
and  rents  payable  at  four  terms  in  the  year,  wards,  marriages  and 
reliefs  of  free  tenants,  their  fees,  the  lands  by  them  held  at  will  or  in 
bondage  or  for  a  term  of  years,  the  bodies  of  neifs  if  any  and  all  that 
goes  with  them  in  the  following  towns,  namely  in  Swithlond,  WiUiam 
rector  of  Swithlond  12(/.,  Alice  Ulvecroft  3s.  4d.  a  year,  the  heirs  of 
Oliver  Iwet  one  pair  of  gloves,   John  Hawe  3s.  Qd.  ;   in  Bradgate, 
Sir  Wilham  Godfrei  one  pair  of  gloves  ;     in  Ansty,  John  Fleccher  3s., 
the  prior  of  Ulvescroft  one  pair  of  gloves,  1/6.  of  cumin,  \\lb.  of  pepper, 
Roger  Daukynesone  4s.  4rf.,  the  abbot  of  Leycestre  \d.,  John  son  of 
Osbert  5d.  ;    in  Glenefeld,  John  Paleiser  1/6.  of  cumin  ;  in  Shepeshed, 
William  Thourgoute  and  wife  24s.  ;    in  Groby,   Robert  Aleyn  two 
capons,  one  barbed  arrow,  1/6.  of  cumin,  Alan  de  Sutton  one  ounce  of 
silk,  William  Hunte  8s.,   William  Jay  37s.   lOrf.,  John  Wadyngton 
8s.  Id.,    Richard    Hamesone    6s.  M.,  John   Rede    13s.  lOc/.,  William 
Pepir  8c/.,  Robert  Benette  6s.  lit/.,  William  Pelsone  5d.,  John  Bygge 
29s.  ;    in  Roteby,  John  Jay  6s.  lid.,  Roger  Shep'  20s.  2d.,  Edward 


352  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  4(1 — cont. 

Coke  75.  4h(Ly  the  heirs  of  Peter  Bassett  (for  a  third  part  of  265.  Sd.) 
Hs.  lOhd.  ;  in  Thurgarston,  John  Faukoner  9.9.  Ik^.  ;  in  Cropstoun, 
Henry  Bettheh^y  21(X,  Jolin  Yvessone  65.  Sd.,  John  Boweraan  3.s.  ^d.  ; 
in  Lyndonforth,  William  Potlok  24s.  4d.,  John  Balle  9s.  S\d.,  Robert 
Pratte  7s.  l|rf.,  AVilliam  Ballif  4d.,  Richard  Swetell  85.  Shd.,  Edith 
Taillour  (because  included  {a/Jltjifur)  in  the  two  thirds)  20d.,  William 
Smyt  135.  7f(/.,  William  Wareyn  25.  9d.,  Richard  Greste  25.  \)d., 
Edward  Cokke  25.  3d.,  Robert  Wodecokke  18f/.,  the  heirs  of  Peter 
Basset  (for  a  third  part  of  265.  Sd.)  85.  lO^d. 

Membrane  3d. 

Assignment  of  dower  to  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  William  de 
Ferrariis  of  Groby,  made  16  July  -45  Edward  II  [  by  John  de  Olneye 
escheator  in  Bukinghamshire  in  presence  of  Sir  Nicholas  de  Bysche- 
bury  attorney  of  the  said  Margaret,  Ellis  Snelman,  John  Palmere  and 
others.     The  south   of   the  great  grange   with   the  granary   thereto 
attached,  a  house  bj'^  the  great  gate  called  the  '  cowhous  '  with  free 
ingress  and  egress,  a  third  part  of  the  garden  beginning  on  the  north 
side  as  appears  by  metes  and  bounds  there  set,  a  third  part  of  the 
profit  of  the  dovecot,  and  of  the  profit  of  a  pond  in  the  great  garden, 
a  third  part  of  the  profit  of  the  court  there  ;    755.  d^d.  and  one  capon 
rent  of  divers  tenants  in  the  town  of  Cryndon,  namely  of  Richard 
Tourle  145.,  John  Palmere  145.,  W^illiam  Bret  145.,  ElUs  Snelman  145., 
William   Bakere   75.,   Roger  Tannore    ^d.,   John   Somer   6d.,   Henry 
Stephenes  25.,  William  Bakere  19^.,  Ellis  Snelman  2d.,  EUis  Coke  2d., 
Alan  fitz  Piers  85.,  and  of  '  Glasiereswere  '  one  capon  ;    in  the  south 
head  16^  perches  1  foot  4  inches  and  in  the  north  head  11 J  perches 
beginning  on  the  east  side  of  a  furlong  called  '  Tounfurlond,'  in  the 
north  head  11|  perches  2|  feet  2  inches  and  in  the  south  head  7  perches 
1    foot   4   inches   beginning   on   the   east   side   of    '  Harlagesforlong,' 
3J  perches  on  the  east  head  4|  perches  4  feet  in  the  west  head  beginning 
on  the  south  side  of   a  furlong  called  '  Heytelondes,'  4J  perches  in  the 
east  head  and  4  pcrclies  in  the  west  head  beginning  on  the  south  side 
abutting  upon  a  furlong  called  '  Elborughulle,'  6J  perches  in  the  east 
head  4J  perches  in  the  west  head  beginning  on  the  south  side  of 
'  Stubfurlong,'  4  perches  in  the  east  head  and  4  perches  in  the  west 
head  beginning  on  the  south  side  of  a  furlong  called  Elleborugh, 
3  perches  2|  feet  2  inches  in  the  north  head  3|-  perches  4  feet  in  the 
south  head  beginning  in  the  east  head  of  a  furlong  called  '  Byhinden- 
orchard,'  7i  perches  2|  feet  2  inches  in  the  north  head  7J  perches  in 
the    south   head    beginning  on   the  east  side  of     a    furlong   called 
'  Shotemarken,'  one  selion  beginning  on  the  east  side  of  a  furlong 
called  '  Shotemarken,'  5  perches  in  the  north  head,  3J  perches  in  the 
south  head  beginning  in  the  east  head  of  a  furlong  called  '  Longehegge,' 
Ih  and  I  perches  4  feet  in  the  west  head  8J  perches  in  the  east  head 
beginning   on   the   south   side   of   a   furlong   called    '  Radweldoune,' 
3J  perches  4  feet  in  the  south  head  3h  perches  2J  feet  in  the  north 
head  beginning  on  the  west  side  of  a  furlong  called  '  Heytelondes,' 
2^  perches  in  the  north  head  2J  perches  in  the  south  head  beginning 
on  the  east  side  of  a  furlong  called  '  Webbecroft,'  5J  perches  in  the  west 
head  6J  perches  in  the  east  head  beginning  on  the  south  side  of 
'  Lytelberdeforlong,'   6J   and   ^  perches   in     the  west    head   7|  and 
J  perches  1|  feet  in  the  east  head  beginning  on  the  south  side  of  a 
furlong  called  '  Shortemarken  '  in  the  '  Estfelde,'  four  selions  beginning 


I 


45  EDWARD   III.  353 


1371.  Membrane  3d — cont. 

on   the  north   nick'   of   '  Michehvdoforlong,'    11    perches   in  the  south 
head  7i  and  J  perches  in  tlie  north  hcatl  hcgimiing  on  the  east  side 
of  the  said  furlong  of  tlie  shorter  selions,  of  a  piece  of  unploughed 
land   {fn'^ce  terre)  called   '  Fritheygges,'   3   perches  in  the  west  iiead 
!)i  and  ^  perches  in  tlie  east  head  beginning  ou  the  south  side,  15  perches 
in  the  south  liead  15.^  perclies  in  the  north  head  beginning  on  the 
east  side  of  a  piece  of  undeiwood  and  jiasture  called  '  Stirtehegges/ 
18J  perches  in  the  west  head  13  perclies  in  the  east  head  beginning 
on  the  south  side  of  a  piece  of  pasture  called   '  Shouyngeshegges,' 
8  perches  in  the  east  head  and  12.\  perches  in  the  west  head  beginning 
on   the   south   side   of   a   piece   of   pasture   called   the    "  Prestesleyn,' 
li  perch  2J  feet  4  inches  in  the  west  head  2i  and  J  perches  in  the 
east  head  beginning  on  the  south  side  of  a  piece  called  '  Baueounbe,' 
3J  perches  4  feet  in  the  north  head  and  3J  and  J  perches  in  the  south 
head   beginning  on  the  east  side  of  a  furlong  called   '  Oxwellhulle,' 
14i  perches  in  the  east  head  and  14  perches  in  the  west  head  beginning 
on  the  south  side  of  a  piece  of  land  called  '  Litelhangel,'  6|  perches 
in  the  east  head  and  6  perches  in  the  west  head  beginning  on  the 
south  side  of  a  piece  of  pasture  called  the  '  Fyspond,'  8^  perches  in 
the  west  head  and  9J  perches  H  foot  in  the  east  head  beginning  on 
the  south  side  of  a  meadow  called  the  "  Brodenior,'  7  perches  in  tlie  north 
head  and  8|  perches  2i  feet  in  the  south  head  beginning  on  the  east 
side  of  the  '  Fourefurlonges,'  7i  perches  2|  feet  2  inches  in  the  south 
head  and  8  perches  in  the  north  head  beginning  on  the  east  side  of  a 
furlong  by  Cadeweybroke,  6  J  furlongs  in  the  south  'lead  and  7^  furlongs 
in   the  north    head    beginning  on    the  east    side   ot   '  Ceperforlong,* 
2^   perclies   in    the   north    head    and  2  perches  4  feet  in    the  south 
head   beginning   on  the   east  side  of  a  furlong  called  '  \^'ebbecroft,' 
two  of  six  selions  of  '  Longeforlong,'  7|  perches  2  feet  in  the  south 
head  and  10  perches  2i  feet  2  inches  in  the  north  head  beginning  on 
the  east  side  of  the  said  furlong,  2|  perches  2  feet  in  the  east  head  and 
1^  perch  in  the  west  head  beginning  on  the  south  side  of  a  furlong 
called  '  Tynchecroft,'  2|  perches  2|  feet  2  inches  in  the  east  head 
and  2 1  perches  1  foot  in  the  west  head  beginning  on  the  south  side 
of  a  furlong  called  '  Wasshefordeweye,'  4|  and  ^  perches  in  the  south 
head  1}  perches  in  the  south  head  (sic)  beginning  on  the  east  side  of 
a   parcel   of   land  called  '  Shotmarken,'  one  selion  beginning  on  the 
same  side  of  the  same  furlong,  7J  perches  in  the  south  head  and 
8  perches  I  foot  in  the  north  head  beginning  on  the  east  side  of  a 
furlong  called  '  Berhulle,'  4  perches  in  the  south  head  5  perches  in  the 
north  head  beginning  on  the  east  side  of  a  furlong  called  '  Revelond,' 
two   of   six   selions   of   a   furlong   called    '  Sixelondes   Overtheweye ' 
beginning  on  the  north  side,  l\  perch  2  J  feet  in  the  east  head  and 
1^^  perch  in  the  west  head  beginning  on  the  north  side  of  five  selions 
in  the  same  furlong,  one  half  acre  of  land  upon  the  '  Shortforlong,' 
two  selions  of  a  piece  of  land  by  '  Tameweye  '  containing  six  selions 
beginning  on  the  east  side,  two  of  six  selions  abutting  upon  "  Thani- 
weye  '  towards  the  west  beginning  on  the  north  side,  two  of  six  selions 
by  '  Wasshefordweye  '  beginning   on  the  east  side,  3 J  perches  in  the 
north  head  and  4  perches  in  the  south  head  beginning  on  the  east  side 
of  a  furlong  called  '  Wasshefordhegges,'  one  rood  of  land  upon  the 
'  Shorteforlong,'  2  perches  in  the  north  head  and  2^  perches  in  the 
south  head  beginning  east  of  a  piece  of  land  abutting  on  '  Jordanes- 
havedlond,'  4  perches  in  the  f  outh  head  and  6  perches  in  the  north  head 

CR  23 


354  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  Sd — cont. 

beginning  on  the  east  side  of  a  piece  of  land  '  Underfulpet,'  6i  perches 
2J  foot  in  the  north  head  and  5J  perclies  in  the  south  liead  beginning 
on  the  east  side  of  a  piece  of  land  called  '  Ee  Forlong,'  6  perches  in 
the  north  head  and  SJ  perches  in  the  south  head  beginning  on  the 
east  side  of  a  piece  of  land  called  '  Ryforlong,'  8|  perches  2  feet  in  the 
west  head  and  7  perches  in  the  east  head  beginning  on  the  north  side 
of  a  piece  of  land  called  '  Lousifurlong,'  6  perches  in  the  north  head 
and  S.i  and  ^  perches  in  the  south  head  beginning  on  the  east  side 
of  a  piece  of  land  called  '  Walteborugh,'  four  selions  beginning  on 
the  north  side  of  a  piece  of  land  called  '  Watersladeforlong,'  3  perches 

1  foot  in  the  south  head  and  2  perches  in  the  north  head  beginning 
on  the  east  side  of  a  piece  of  land  called  '  Shertefurlong,'  20  perches 
with  one  piece  of  meadow  called  the  '  Cod  '  in  the  west  head  and  in 
the  east  head  20  perches  with  the  '  Cod  '  aforesaid  beginning  on  the 
south  side  of  a  meadow  called  '  Altounesheyde,'  13  perches  of  the 
'Berchemede'  in  either  head  beginning  on  the  north  side  thereof, 
12  perches  in  the  said  meadow  in  either  head  beginning  on  the  south 
side  as  appears  by  metes  and  bounds  there  set,  a  piece  of  pasture 
called  the  '  Ncdelfoder  '  by  '  Oxwellebroke  '  as  appears  by  metes  and 
bounds  there  set,  a  piece  of  pasture  called  the  '  Longeleswe  '  in  the 
south  head,  13|  perches  in  the  north  head  and  in  the  south  head 
14  perches  beginning  on  the  east  side  of  a  piece  of  pasture  called  the 
'Burimor,'  two  of  six  selions  abutting  on  the  'Pesteleyen'  towards 
the  east  with  a  parcel  of  headland  (/orrer')  in  the  westhead,  one  acre 
of  land  lying  upon  the  '  Revelond  '  beginning  on  the  south  side  of 
four  selions  lying  together,  one  half  acre  of  land  lying  upon  a  furlong 
called  '  Wykedychesyate,'  and  7J  perches  in  the  east  head  and 
6J-  perches  in  the  west  head  beginning  on  the  south  side  of  a  furlong 
called  the  '  Hangre.' 

Assignment  of  dower  in  Newebotele  to  Margaret  who  was  wife  of 
William  de  Ferrariis  of  Groby,  made  25  June  45  Edward  III  by 
Simon  Warde  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire  in  presence  of  Sir  Walter 
de  Donwyght  attorney  of  Luke  de  Ponynges  lord  de  Sancto  Johanne 
to  whom  the  king  has  committed  the  wardship  of  all  the  said  William's 
lands  until  the  lawful  age  of  his  heir,  and  Sir  Nicholas  de  Bysshebury 
attorney  of  the  said  Margaret.  A  chamber  at  the  end  of  the  hall 
Avith  two  cellars  beneath  on  the  '  south '  side,  a  house  by  the  dovecot 
called  the  '  oldeshepene,'  a  third  part  of  the  dovecot  and  of  the  wind- 
mill, a  third  part  of  a  field  called  the  '  Ynwonge  '  on  the  east  side, 
a  third  part  of  '  Marscalles  Wonge  '  on  the  west  side,  a  third  part  of 
'  Coldcroft '  on  the  east  side,  a  third  part  of  '  Outrascroft '  on  the 
east  side,  a  third  of  '  Suthmedefurlong  '  on  the  south  side,  a  third  part 
of  '  Stanfeld  '  on  the  north  side,  2  acres  by  '  Chirchewey,'  a  third 
part  of  the  '  mersh,'  a  third  part  of  Stanwelle  on  the  north  side,  a 
third  part  of  '  Slavaker  '  on  the  south  side,  a  third  part  of  '  Lytlyn- 
lond  '  on  the  north  side,   1    acre  '  atte  Brokburgh  '  and  '  Dodenacre,' 

2  acres  '  atte  Gorsithe,'  1  acre  by  the  '  Overmede,'  1  acre  in  '  Ose 
Weldeshed,'  a  third  part  of  '  Southwelleslade,'  2  acres  of  meadow  in 
'  Overmedenetherende,'  1  acre  of  meadow  in  '  Goldcroft '  1  acre  of 
meadow  called  the  '  Rede  gras,'  a  third  part  of  the  great  wood  on  the 
north  side  as  appears  by  metes  and  bounds,  a  third  part  of  the  little 
wood  on  the  south  side  as  appears  by  metes  and  bounds  there  set, 
a  third  part  of  the  garden  on  the  west  side  ;  of  the  rent  of  free  tenants 


45    EDWARD    HI.  355 


1371.  Membrane  Zd — cent. 

the  tenants  following  with  their  works  and  rents  payable  at  the  four 
principal  terms  of  the  year,  namely  William  Kerver  \lb.  of  cumin, 
Roger  Donkeley  3^.,  William  Hervy  30.s.,  Robert  Lomley  3«.,  Simon 
Page  2.S'.  6r/.,  Alice  Knyght  IO,s.,  of  Fissheres  tenement  the  third  year 
half  an  ell  of  scarlet  with  one  pair  of  gloves  furred  witli  fox  ;  of  the 
rent  of  neifs,  Richard  Hervy  VXs.  Gd.  a  year,  Adam  Wilymot  10,9.  Gd., 
WilHam  Cristien  \^s.  Gd.,  Richard  Andrew  305.  Gd.,  John  Tikene 
l!Kv.  Of/.,  William  Xormoun  10,s.  Gd.,  John  Hunte  lO.s.  Gd.  ;  a  third 
part  of  the  court,  with  a  third  part  of  tlie  leet  and  view  of  frank  pledge. 

Assignment  of  dower  in  Chorley  and  Bolton  upon  the  Moors  to 
Margaret  \^ho  \\as  wife  of  William  de  Ferrariis  of  Groby  knight, 
made  20  June  45  Edward  III  by  William  de  Chorley  escheator  in 
Lancashire  in  presence  of  Adam  Skilycorne  attorney  of  Luke  de 
Ponynges  lord  de  Seint  John  to  whom  the  king  has  committed  the 
wardship  of  the  said  William's  lands  until  the  lawful  age  of  his  heir, 
and  of  Hugh  WilkjTison  of  Chorlegh  attorney  of  the  said  Margaret. 
Chorley  :  a  house  therein  Thomas  de  Arderne  knight  used  to  dwell 
towards  the  east  with  a  third  part  of  the  garden  adjoining  the  same, 
and  free  ingress  and  egress  night  and  day  and  all  easements  to  the 
said  garden  and  house,  a  third  part  of  the  demesne  lands  and  meadow 
towards  the  east  whereof  the  said  William  died  seised  in  Chorley  ; 
the  tenants  following  and  their  rents  yearly  paj^able  at  the  Assumption 
and  ^lartinmas,  namely  John  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Dalton  knight 
lOd.,  John  Broun  Id.  free  tenants,  Richard  Hullessone  llhd.  and  the 
third  part  of  one  halfpenny  a  year  tenant  for  life,  Henry  de  Maudesley 
for  three  burgages  held  in  fee  3.9.,  John  del  Hulle  for  the  third  part 
of  one  burgage  Ad.  ;  the  following  tenants  at  wiW,  namely  Henry 
le  Couper  holding  '  Hidefold  '  for  3s.  4rf.,  John  le  ^Nlilner  '  Yaroudale- 
feld  '  for  3s.,  Robert  le  Sadiller  one  house  12c?.,  John  Broun  one  acre  8d., 
John  Culody  one  acre  called  Pildolers  Sd.,  John  Dickson  of  Kyngeley 
half  an  acre  Gd.  Wapentake  of  Leylondshire  :  a  third  part  of  the 
fourth  part  of  the  said  wapentake,  of  which  third  part  fines  and 
amercements  are  Morth  Sd.  a  year,  a  third  part  of  the  fourth  part 
of  the  bailiwick  of  the  serjeanty  of  the  said  wapentake  which  is  worth 
nothing  a  year  beyond  reprises  ;  the  following  free  tenant  in  fee, 
namely  Thomas  Banastre  knight  4s.  5^d.  Bolton  upon  the  Moors  : 
a  rent  of  3s.  and  a  third  part  of  a  fartliing  payable  yearly  by  divers 
tenants,  namely  Adam  son  of  John  de  Lovre  (sic)  for  three  burgages 
35.  a  3^ear  ;  a  third  part  of  the  fourth  part  and  a  third  part  of  two 
thirds  the  fourth  part  of  a  little  moss  in  Bolton  towards  the  east,  now 
worth  nothing  a  year,  and  a  third  part  of  the  fourth  part  and  a  third 
part  of  two  thirds  the  fourth  part  of  the  toll  of  Bolton,  which  third 
part  is  worth  S^d.  a  year. 

Membrane  2d. 

Assignment  of  dower  in  Stoke,  Wodlon',  the  hundred  of  Bradford 
to  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  William  de  Ferrariis  of  Groby  knight, 
made  25  June  45  Edward  III  by  William  Banastre  escheator  in 
Staffordshire  and  Salop  in  presence  of  Sir  Walter  de  Donwyghe  attorney 
of  Luke  de  Ponynges  lord  de  Sancto  Joharme  to  whom  the  king  has 
committed  the  wardship  of  all  the  said  William's  lands  until  the 
lawful  age  of  his  heir  and  Sir  Nicholas  de  Bissebury  attorney  of  the 


356  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  2d — cont. 

said  Margaret.  One  house  of  the  manor  called  the  '  deyhows  '  with 
one  solar  at  the  end,  one  grange  called  the  '  lasseberne  '  and  all  other 
easements  to  the  said  house  pertaining,  namely  free  ingress  and  egress, 
a  third  part  of  the  profit  of  the  dovecot  and  of  the  water  mill,  a  third 
part  of  the  demesne  lands  and  the  meadow  as  appears  by  metes  and 
bounds  there  set,  a  third  ])art  of  the  park  beginning  at  the  park  gate 
and  extending  to  Denulbroke  on  the  south  side  as  appeal's  by  metes 
and  bounds  there  set  ;  the  tenants  following  and  their  rents  yearly 
payable  at  the  Annunciation  and  Michaelmas,  namely  Richard  Rolf 
46'.,  William  Dros  of  Cotoun  2.s-.  CuL,  John  Lege  Is.  4|c/.,  John  le  VVrethe 
45.  6d.,  Stephen  Persones  15c?.,  John  le  Orchard  lAd.,  John  son  of 
Thomas  3r?.  Alverton  :  Robert  Capcy  5s.  3d.,  William  de  Hulle  ISd., 
William  de  Hatton  4.s.  (kl.,  Henry  de  Wotton  2s.  (id.,  William  Dros 
of  Cotoun  25.  6d.,  John  Parcare  lOs.  Id.,  John  le  Wrethe  4s.  6d.,  John 
le  Orchai'd  I2d.,  Richard  Capcy  5s.,  John  Broun  6s.,  Thomas  le  Coupere 
25.  4|rf.,  Alan  de  Westmaneswyke  I8d.,  Roger  Godefrey  14Jci., 
Richard  Stoke  4c?.,  the  said  Roger  Godefrey  ISd.,  Richard  son 
of  Roger  Cartwrith  14]r/.,  225.  l|rf.  for  the  third  part  of  a  farm  of 
demesne  land  called  the  '  BenuUe.'  A  third  part  of  the  tenants  of 
Wodlond  and  of  their  rent  at  the  same  terms  41.  ds.  Ad.  ;  61.  135.  4d. 
of  the  third  part  of  the  hundred  of  Bradford  at  the  said  terms,  and  a 
third  part  of  the  profit  of  the  court  and  leet.  Claverley  co.  Salop  : 
the  tenants  following  with  their  rents  yearly  payable  at  the  terms 
aforesaid,  namely  Richard  de  Gravenore  II5.  \0d.,  William  de  Pelhous 
12c?.,  Richard  Knotte  55.  4c?.,  Alice  atte  Stile  55.  4(Z.,  Stephen  de 
Woundenwalle  25.  8c/.,  John  Lovedy  25.  8c?.,  Stephen  atte  Lee  25.  8c?., 
Thomas  son  of  Edmund  Coupere  25.  Sd.,  Adam  atte  Thorne  25.  Sd., 
Richard  Robin  55.  4c?.,  Richard  son  of  Roger  25.  Sd.,  John  de  le  Grene 
55.  4rf.,  William  Hannys  45.,  total  545.  2d.  of  free  tenants  ;  William 
de  la  Pelhous  45.  2d.,  Richard  son  of  Thomas  de  Gravenore  23c?., 
William  Shepherde  2hd.,  John  atte  Putte  35.  Id.,  Maud  atte  Broke 
25.  3|c?.,  Masera  atte  Nayse  1-id.,  William  de  Woundenwalle  12c?., 
William  Perkyns  3c?.,  '  Foxhale  rente'  55.,  Richard  de  Woundenwalle 
18c?.,  Roger  atte  Novertoun  25.  9f?.,  Emma  Rogers  25.  l^d.,  John 
Loveday  15c?.,  Rose  atte  Lee  3Ac?.,  Richard  de  York  Id.,  of  Wyche 
20d.  ;  free  tenants,  Richard  Knotte  85.  6c?.,  Roger  Knotte  65.  6c?., 
William  de  Dalicote  35.,  Stephen  Rykethorne  35.  8c?.,  Richard  Robyns 
2|c?.,  John  de  Whitemere  25.  9c7.,  Richard  Lufte  45.  10c?.,  Thomas  Rys 
10c?.,  Margery  Bowey  5(?.,  Philip  de  Bobyngton  20d.  The  tenants 
following  and  their  rents  paj^able  at  the  terms  aforesaid  in  Totenhale 
CO.  Suffolk  (sic)  :  the  chapel  of  St.  Mary  35.  l^d.,  Agnes  Swejni  25.  9^d., 
John  son  of  Richard  Sweyn  25.  S^d.,  Thomas  le  Meleward  12c?.,  Amice 
Smyth  6c?.,  Roger  Lukke  2|c/.  Compton  :  William  atte  Wode 
25.  2d.,  John  son  of  Henry  25.  7|c/.,  Adam  Wliithed  2c?.  Cronk- 
walle  :  John  de  Okene  12d.,  Henry  Cate  Ic?.  Withwilk  :  William 
Holygreve  45.,  Nicholas  de  Withwyk  25.  10c?.,  Nicholas  son  of  Henry 
25.  8c?.,  Simon  son  of  Roger  2^c?.,  a  third  part  of  the  court  and  leet  and 
of  the  profi-t  of  Kyngeswode  and  the  mill.  Witheges  :  Walter  de 
Tettebury,  William  Holygreve  A^d.,  Simon  de  Caldwelle  2d.  ;  new 
rent,  Thomas  Willes  Ifc?.,  Nicholas  de  Witheges  Ic?.,  Ellen  Henris  Id., 
John  le  Flemmjmg  l^d.,  Nicholas  '  in  le  Grene  '  Id.,  Richard  Dovey 
l^c?.,  Tetenhalle  marsh  2d.  Tenants  in  Wotton  under  Wavere  co. 
Stafford  :  Thomas  Herdman  25.  9c?.,  Richard  Balle  155.  5c?.,  John 
Joce  75.  6c?.,  John  Legge  125.  2c?.,  Thomas  son  of  Pole  25.  4c?.,  Richard 


45  EDWARD  111.  357 


1371.  Membrane  2d — cont. 

Cowherd  Is.  \0<L,  Henry  son  of  Reynold  ISs.  2<1.,  Henry  Homwig'  lOs., 
Margaret  de  Hultou  \ld.,  the  abbot  of  Crokston  2v.,  Richard  Body 
20rf.,  a  third  part  of  the  demesne  land  and  meadow,  namely  '  Col- 
mannescroft '  and  the  '  Stony  Ruddyngge,'  the  '  Hallesasshes  '  and 
land  between  the  meadow  a\  ith  3  acres  of  "  ynlond  '  of  meadow,  a  third 
part  of  the  park,  namely  from  the  park  gate  east  to  '  Haselburstesgate ' 
towards  the  south  as  appears  by  metes  and  bound;^  there  set,  and  a 
third  part  of  the  court  and  leet. 

Assignment  and  livery  of  dower  to  Maud  who  was  wife  of  Richard 
de  Merton  of  the  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  in  his  bailiwick  that  were 
her  said  husband's,  made  on  Tuesdiiy  after  St.  Bartholomew 
45  Edward  111  by  Thomas  Chambernoun  escheator  in  Devon,  namely 
one  knight's  fee  held  by  John  Ledeakene  {sic)  and  Joan  etc.  {as  above, 
p.  339  ;   but  reading  here  Spricombe,  Churiton  Fitz  Payn,  and  Vaske). 

Membrane  Id. 

Dec.  21.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  on  sight  of  these 
Westminster,  presents  forthwith  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  in  the  said  city  and 
the  suburbs  thereof  on  the  king's  behalf  forbidding  any  merchant  or 
other  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition  under  pain  of  forfeiture  for 
any  cause  whatsoever  under  any  pretext  or  device  secretly  or  openly 
to  sell  to  any  alien  merchant  or  merchants  any  ships  or  other  vessels 
fit  for  crossing  the  sea,  and  if  any  merchants  or  others  shall  so  do 
contrary  to  the  proclamation,  order  to  certify  in  chancery  from  time 
to  time  under  their  seals  the  names  of  all  and  singular  who  shall  sell  such 
ships  and  vessels  ;  as  the  king  is  informed  that  divers  merchants  of 
the  realm  are  purposing  to  sell  to  alien  merchants  great  number  of 
such  ships  and  vessels,  which  if  it  were  done  would  manifestly  [tendj 
to  the  king's  prejudice  and  the  succour  of  his  enemies  ;  and  the  king 
would  take  precaution  against  the  danger  threatened  thereby.     By  K. 

[Fo'dera.] 

The  like  to  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  York  and  of  five 
other  cities  and  towns,  the  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  St.  Botolph  and 
five  other  towns,  Andrew  de  Guldeford  constable  of  Dovorre  castle 
and  warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports,  Ralph  de  Ferrars  and  Robert  de 
Assheton  admirals  of  the  fleet  from  the  mouth  of  the  Thames  north- 
ward and  westward  respectively. 

[Ibid.] 

1872. 

Jan.  8.  To  Nicholas  de  Wotenhulle  clerk.     Order  to  be  in  person  before  the 

Westminster,  king  in  chancery  as  soon  as  may  be,  to  give  information  to  tlie  king 
and  council  toucliing  the  king's  right  to  present  to  the  church  of 
Kilbery  to  which  the  said  Xicholas  is  by  the  king  presented,  and  to 
bring  with  him  the  king's  commission  to  make  inquisition  touching 
the  patronage  of  the  said  church,  which  commission  is  in  his  hands, 
knowing  for  a  surety  that  without  other  information  the  king  will 
not  proceed  to  final  debate  of  the  business.  By  C. 


(358) 


Ki  EDWAia)  111. 


1372.  Membrane  33. 

Jan.  26.  To  Thomas  Caus  escheator  in  Xorffolk  and  Suffolk.     Order  to  stay 

Westminster,  altogether  the  execution  of  the  king's  late  writ  concerning  the  lands 
of  llohert  de  KnoUes  knight  tenant  in  chief,  removing  the  king's 
hand  and  not  meddling  further  with  any  of  them  taken  into  the  king's 
hand,  and  delivering  to  the  said  Robert  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  upon  information  received  that  he  was  dead  the  king  lately  ordered 
the  escheator  to  take  into  the  king's  hand  all  the  said  Robert's  lands 
in  his  bailiwick,  and  safe  keep  them  until  further  order  ;  but  the  said 
Robert  is  alive  and  well,  as  is  found  by  inquisition  taken  at  the  king's 
command  by  John  Bernes  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator 
therein,  and  as  the  king  has  learned  by  credible  witness. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

William  Auncell  escheator  in  Wiltesir. 

Thomas    Sewale    escheator    in    Bedfordshire,     Bukinghamshire, 

Cambridgeshire  and  Huntingdonshire. 
Roger  Lascels  escheator  in  Yorkshire. 
John  de  Hortesle  of  Letton  escheator  in  Gloucestershire. 

Jan.  30.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Gerard  de  Brunby,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Jan.  28.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.     Order  to  cause     a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  John  Tyece,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Worcester.      Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
instead  of  John  de  Clare,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Derby.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
instead  of  Roger  de  Wyggeley,  who  is  sick  and  aged. 

Jan.  28.  To  Edmund  Cheyne  escheator  in  Dorset.     Order  to  take  of  Felicia 

Westminster,  who  was  wife  of  Edmund  Everard  knight  tenant  in  chief  an  oath  that 
she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  in  presence  of  the 
heirs  and  parceners  of  his  heritage,  if  being  warned  they  will 
attend,  to  assign  her  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands,  sending  the 
assignment  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery  as  usual 

The  like  to  William  Auncell  escheator  in  Berkshire  and  Wiltesir. 


Jan.  29.  To  John  de  Rokwode  late  escheator  in  Norffolk.     Order  to  remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Kymberle, 
delivering  to  Katherine  de  Brewes  any  issues  thereof  taken  since  the 
death  of  Thomas  son  of  Walter  de  Norwico ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  at  his  command  by  the  said  late  escheator, 
that  Roger  de  Norwych  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in 
chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  manor  to  him  and 
the  heirs  of  his  body  of  the  gift  of  Walter  de  Norwico,  with  remainder 
for  lack  of  sucli  an  heir  to  the  said  Thomas  for  life,  remainder  to  the 
said  Katherine  and  her  heirs,  that  the  said  Roger  died  without  issue, 
and  that  the  said  manor  is  held  of  others  than  the  king. 


46  EDWARD   TIT. 


350 


1372. 

Feb.  6. 

Westminster. 


Feb.  20. 
Westminster. 


Feb.  20. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  33 — cont. 


Feb.  20. 

Westminster. 


To  Richard  de  Penibrugge.  Order,  for  particular  causes,  to  deliver 
to  Richard  le  Scrope  the  treasurer  the  heir  of  Thomas  Desclialers 
tenant  in  chief  who  is  in  his  wardship,  to  be  dealt  witii  according  to 
instructions  given  to  the  said  treasurer.  By  K. 

To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  set  free  from  the  king's  j)rison, 
where  they  are  detaining  him  by  the  king's  comluand,  Jolin  Daum- 
martyn  clerk  of  the  cardinal  de  Agrifolio.  By  C. 

\_F(Xidera.\ 

To  Richard  Norwych  escheator  in  Kent.  Order  to  remove  the 
king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  witli  the  manor  of  Dinistall 
and  1,000  acres  of  marsh  in  Elmele  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  tlio 
death  of  Walter  de  Mauny  knight,  delivering  to  Robert  Knolles  knight 
and  Constance  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  VValter 
at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as 
of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  held  the  said  manor  and  marsh  for  life  of 
another  than  the  king,  with  reversion  to  Gilbeit  Cliampeneys  and 
Ehzabeth  his  wife  in  her  right,  that  the  said  Gilbert  and  Elizabeth 
by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  granted  the  reversion  thereof  to 
Richard  Ravcnser  clerk,  Henry  de  Snayth  clerk,  William  Stretc  and 
Robert  de  Notyngham  and  to  the  heirs  of  the  said  William,  to  whom 
the  said  Walter  by  his  writing  indented  has  attorned  himself,  that  the 
said  Robert  de  Xotyngham  after  by  deed  released  all  his  right 
in  the  premises  to  the  said  Richard,  Henry  and  William  and  the  heirs 
of  the  said  William,  that  the  said  Richard,  Henry  and  William  by 
fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  afterwards  granted  the  said  reversion 
to  the  said  Robert  Knolles  and  Constance  and  to  John  de  Lakyngheth 
knight  and  the  heirs  of  the  said  John,  to  whom  by  another  writing 
indented  the  said  Walter  likewise  attorned  himself,  that  the  said 
John  by  writing  released  his  right  in  the  premises  to  the  said  Robert 
Knolles  and  Constance,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  and  that  by  the  form 
of  the  gift  and  attornment  aforesaid  the  reversion  of  the  premises 
belongs  to  them  the  said  Robert  Knolles  and  Constance,  their  heirs 
and  assigns. 

To  Thomas  Caus  of  Hokham  escheator  in  Norffolk.  Order  to 
take  the  fealty  of  John  Boteler,  son  of  John  Boteler  of  Babyngle, 
according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  give  him  livery 
of  a  messuage  and  80  acres  of  land  in  Babyngle  called  '  le  Botillers  ' 
which  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of 
the  said  John  the  father,  saving  to  the  king  the  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  as  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  at  his  command  by  John 
de  Rokewode  late  escheator,  that  the  said  Joan  at  her  death  held 
no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  as  jointly 
enfeoffed  with  her  said  husband  held  the  premises  for  life  of  the  heritage 
of  the  said  John  their  son,  with  reversion  to  him,  that  the  same  are 
held  by  knight  service  of  the  heir  of  Adam  de  Clifton  tenant  in  chief, 
a  minor  in  the  Idng's  wardship,  that  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the 
said  John  the  son  answer  has  been  made  to  the  king  by  the  escheators 
for  the  time  being  for  the  issues  of  the  premises  since  the  death  of  the 
said  Joan,  who  died  on  Thursday  before  St.  Margaret  in  the  43rd 
year  of  the  reign,  and  that  he  is  now  of  full  age. 


300  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1872.  Membrane  33 — cont. 

Feb.  12.  To  Roger  de  Meres  and  -John  de  Fencotes  justices  of  assize  in  Norffolk. 

Westminster.  Order,  if  in  an  assize  of  novel  disseisin  by  Roger  de  Gyneye  knight 
arraigned  against  William  de  Kerdeston  knight  and  others  concerning 
tenements  in  Dilham  allegation  was  made  and  command  given  as 
hereinafter  lehearsed,  to  proceed  to  take  the  said  assize,  doing  full 
and  sj)eedy  justice  to  the;  parties  that  allegation  and  command  not- 
withstanding, so  that  they  proceed  not  to  rendering  of  judgment 
without  advising  the  king  ;  as  on  behalf  of  the  said  plaintiff  it  is  shewn 
the  king  that  whenuis  he  arraigned  the  assize  aforesaid,  and  the  said 
defendant  and  others  in  tlieir  pleading  alleged  that  the  tenements 
put  in  view  were  for  particular  causes  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  and  that  so  th(^y  ought  not  to  make  answer 
without  the  king,  averring  after  to  the  king  that  certain  of  tlie  premises 
were  in  his  hand,  the  king  by  \\rit  under  his  privy  seal  commanded 
the  said  justices  so  to  bear  themselves  therein  that  no  hurt  or  prejudice 
should  arise  to  the  king  or  the  tenants  of  the  premises  in  view,  by 
colour  of  which  allegation  and  command  the  said  justices  have  deferred 
to  proceed  to  take  that  assize,  to  the  plaintiff's  disherison,  wherefore 
he  has  prayed  for  remedy.  By  C. 

Membrane  32. 

Feb.  17.  To  John  Hortesle  of  Letton  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.     Order 

Westminster,  to  cause  John  de  Pembrugge,  son  and  heir  of  Henry  de  Pembrugge 
tenant  in  chief,  to  have  seizin  of  John  {sic)  his  father's  lands  which  are  in 
the  king's  hand  by  the  said  Henrys  death  ;  as  the  said  John  proved  his 
age  before  William  Auncell  late  escheator  in  Herefordshire,  and  the 
king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [29006.] 

Feb.  20.  To  Richard  de  Pembrugge.     Strict  order  to  bring  before  the  king 

Westminster,  in  chancery  without  delay  to  be  cancelled  the  king's  letters  patent 
of  9  July  in  the  37th  year  of  his  reign,  granting  to  the  said  Richard 
the  marriage  of  the  heir  of  John  de  Haverj'nton  tenant  in  chief, 
a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  without  rendering  aught  to  the  king; 
as  for  particular  causes  the  king  has  revoked  the  same.  By  K. 

Feb.  4.  To  Edmund  Cheyne  escheator  in  Somerset.     Order  to  remove  the 

Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  third  part  of  the  manor 
of  Orchardlegh  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Henry 
son  of  Henry  de  Merland,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  since 
the  death  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Henry  de  Merland  ;  as  it  is  found 
by  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  William  Cheyne 
late  escheator,  that  Henry  de  Merland  at  his  death  held  no  lands 
in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said 
manor  for  life  jointly  with  Margaret  his  wife  (yet  living)  in  chief  by 
the  service  of  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  of  the  gift  of  William 
Flemyng  parson  of  St.  Tathans  and  Robert  Cajmer  parson  of 
Orchardlegh  made  wdth  the  king's  licence  to  them  and  the  heirs  of 
the  said  Henry,  and  divers  other  lands  as  well  in  his  demesne 
as  of  fee  as  for  his  life  of  others  than  the  king  ;  and  because  in  the 
king's  said  letters  patent  licence  is  given  to  Henry  son  of  Henry  de 
Merlaund  to  enfeoff  the  said  William  and  Robert  and  their  heirs 
of  two  thirds  of  the  said  manor,  and  to  grant  them  and  their  heirs 
the  remainder  of  one  third  thereof  held  in  dower  of  his  heritage  by  the 


46  EDWARD  TIT. 


361 


1372.  Membrane  32 — cont. 

said  Joan  with  reversion  to  him,  and  Ucence  to  the  said  WiUiam 
and  Robert  to  take  seisin  of  the  said  two  thirds  and  give  the  same  to 
the  said  Henry  tlie  son  and  Margaret  and  to  the  heirs  of  the  said 
Henry  tiie  son,  to  receive  the  attornment  of  the  said  Joan  con- 
cerning the  said  thiid  ])art  and  to  grant  the  remainder  thereof  with 
the  said  two  tliiids  to  tlie  said  Henry  the  son  and  Margaret  and  to  the 
heii-s  of- Henry  tlie  son,  and  for^that  the  king  was  not  assured  whether 
tlie  said  Joan  was  yet  living  or  no,  he  ordered  the  escheator  to  keep  in 
his  hand  that  third  part  until  further  order,  and  to  take  the  fealty  of 
the  said  Margaret,  removing  the  kings  hand  and  not  meddling  further 
with  the  said  two  thirds  and  with  other  the  lands  aforesaid  taken 
into  th(^  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  the  said  Henry  the  son  ;  and  it  is 
found  by  in(iuisition,  by  the  now  escheator  taken  at  the  king's 
command,  that  the  said  Joan  is  dead. 


Feb.  18.  To  the  sherilf  of  Hereford.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  John  de  Hortesle,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Feb.  26.  To  Th.  bishop  of  Durham.     Order  upon  his  allegiance,  as  he  loves 

Westminster,  the  king  and  his  honour  and  desires  the  safety  and  defence  of  the 
realm,  upon  sight  of  these  presents  to  leave  all  else  and  forthwith 
draw  with  all  speed  towards  the  marolies  of  Scotland,  there  continually 
to  abide  with  all  his  pow  er,  his  household  and  retinue,  and  elsewhere 
in  those  parts  where  greater  danger  shall  threaten  by  inroads  of  the 
enemy,  so  that  he  and  his  be  ready  with  other  the  lords  and  the  king's 
lieges  whom  likewise  for  this  cause  the  king  has  commanded  to  abide 
upon  their  lands  in  those  parts,  to  march  with  strong  hand  against  the 
said  enemies,  if  any  shall  presume  to  invade  the  realm,  w  ith  Gods  help 
overcoming  their  malice  ;  as  by  advice  of  the  council  the  king  has 
made  order  that  the  said  bishop  dwell  continually  upon  his  lands 
near  the  said  marches  with  his  whole  household  and  retinue  upon 
the  safe  guard  of  the  marches  and  of  his  lands  there.  The  king  has  com- 
manded the  arrayers  of  men  at  arms,  armed  men,  hobblers  and  archers 
in  the  bishopric  of  Durham  and  in  Northumberland,  Cumberland, 
Westmorland  and  Yorkshire  to  be  obedient  and  answerable  to  the  said 
bishop  and  other  the  wardens  of  the  said  marches  and  to  every  of 
them,  causing  all  men  of  the  bishopric  and  of  the  said  counties  who 
are  arrayed  to  come  before  them  upon  warning  of  the  said  wardens  or 
any  of  them,  and  certifying  them  with  all  speed  of  the  number  of  men 
so  arraj'ed,  and  the  names  of  the  captains  of  thousands,  hundreds  and 
twenties  wlio  lead  them.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Foedera.] 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

Henry  de  Percy. 

Gilbert  de  Umframville  earl  of  Anegos. 

Roger  de  Clifford. 

Thomas  bishop  of  Karliol.  * 

Randolph  lord  de  Dacre, 
[Ibid.] 

Feb.  26.  To  Th.  bishop  of  Durham.     Order  for  particular  causes  upon  his 

Westminster,  allegiance,  as  he  loves  the  king  and  his  honour  and  desires  the  safety 

and  defence  of  the  realm,  on  sight  of  these  presents  forthwith  to  cause 

proclamation  to  be  made  in  the  city  of  Durham  and  elsewhere  within 


362 


CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLvS. 


137'2. 


Membrane  32 — cont. 


the  liberty  of  Durham  on  the  king's  behalf  forbidding  any  lord,  knight, 
esquire  or  other  able  or  fencible  men  whatsoever  of  the;  said  liberty 
under  pain  of  forfeiture  by  reason  of  the  war  or  otherwise  to  go  out 
of  the  country  where  they  have  their  dwelling  or  conversation, 
commanding  them  to  abide  continually  in  their  own  parts  for  defence 
of  the  march,  and  under  the  said  pain  to  be  intendant  and  obedient  to 
the  wardens  of  the  marches  whenever  warned  bv  them  or  any  of  them. 

[Ibid.] 

The  like  to  the  sheriffs  of  Northumberland,  Cumberland  and 
Westmorland. 

[Ibid.] 

Feb.  26.  To  the  arrayers  in  the  Estrithing  in  Yorkshire  of  men  at  arms, 

Westminster,  armed  men,  hobblers  and  archers.  Writ  de  inlendendo,  directing  them 
under  pain  of  forfeiture,  by  reason  of  certain  news  which  has  newly 
come  to  the  king's  cars,  to  leave  over  all  else  and  cause  all  the  fencible 
men  of  the  said  ti'ithing  to  be  arrayed,  every  man  according  to  his 
estate  and  means,  furnished  with  arms,  put  in  thousands,  hundreds 
and  twenties,  and  kept  in  furniture  and  array  according  to  the  form 
of  their  commission,  so  as  to  be  ready  whensoever  danger  shall 
threaten  upon  the  marches  of  Scotland  by  inroads  of  the  enemy, 
and  when  they  shall  be  warned  by  the  bishop  of  Durham,  Henry  de 
Percy  or  other  the  wardens  of  the  marches  aforesaid,  and  when  they 
be  so  arrayed  to  certify  the  said  wardens  of  the  number  of  men  arrayed 
and  the  names  of  the  captains  of  thousands,  hundreds  and  twenties 
who  lead  them. 

[Ibid.] 

The  like  to  the  arrayers  in  the  Westrithing  and  Northtrithing,  also 
in  the  counties  of  Northumberland,  Westmorland  and  Cumberland, 
and  in  the  bishopric  of  Durham. 

[Ibid.] 

Feb.  20.  To  the  king's  bailiffs  of  Gravesende.     Order,  upon  the  petition    of 

Westminster.  Cobjiius  Selander  of  Caunfare  and  Nicholas  Diricsone  of  Caunfare, 
to  deliver  to  them  or  one  of  them  their  ship,  if  kept  under  arrest  for 
the  cause  hereinafter  mentioned  and  for  none  other  ;  as  their  petition 
shews  that  they  were  before  the  council  impeached  for  carrying  in 
their  ship  a  man  of  Flanders  the  king's  enemy  from  the  city  of  London 
to  foreign  parts,  and  were  taken  and  imprisoned,  and  the  said  ship 
was  arrested  by  the  said  bailiffs  ;  but  their  cause  being  heard,  and 
their  reasons  and  allegations,  the  king  of  his  favour  commanded  that 
that  they  should  be  set  free. 

Mandate  to  William  Britford  one  of  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in 
the  port  of  London  and  the  river  Thames,  who  is  keeping  the  said 
Cobynus  and  Nicholas  in  prison,  to  set  them  free  without  delay.     By  K. 


March  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.  Order  to  cease  altogether  from  executing 
Westminster,  the  king's  writ  for  removal  of  Thomas  de  Etton  from  the  office  of 
verderer  of  the  forest  of  Galtres,  but  to  remove  John  de  Hamerton, 
William  Darell  and  Ivo  de  Thornton  from  office  according  to  the  said 
writ  ;  as  lately  by  testimony  of  William  Latymer  keeper  of  the  king's 
forest  beyond  Trent  learning  that  the  said  Thomas,  John,  William 
and  Ivo,  being  verderers  of  the  said  forest,  were  insufficiently  qualified, 


46  EDWARD  Til.  363 


137'2.  Membrane  32 — cont. 

the  king  ordered  the  slieritf  to  cause  four  other  verdcrcrs  to  be  elected  in 
th(ur  stead  ;  but  now  it  is  l)y  the  said  keeper  witnessed  that  the  said 
Thomas  is  sufficiently  qualified. 

Membrane  31. 

Feb.  20.  To  the  sheriff  of  Warrewyk.     Order  to  cause  a 'coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  John  Bardulf,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Feb.  3.  To  the  same.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead  of 

Westminster.  William  Coppethorn,  who  is  infirm  and  aged. 

Feb.  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Devon.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Walter  Crysp,  who  has  no  lands  nor  an  abode  in  that  county. 

Jan.  30.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lancaster.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Roger  de  Slene,  wlio  is  dead. 

Feb.  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  Salop.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Hugh  atte  Bourne,  who  is  impotent  to  toil  in  the  exercise 
of  his  office. 

Feb.  13.  To  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Richard  Tyrell  of  St.  Golan,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Feb.  6.  To  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland.     Order  to  cause  a  verderer  of  the 

Westminster,  forest  of  Ingelwode  to  be  elected  instead  of  Hugh  de  Salkeld,  who 
is  too  infirm  to  exercise  his  office  in  the  said  forest. 

Feb.  6.  To  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland.     Order  to  cause  a  verderer  of  the 

Westminster,  forest  of  Ingelwode  to  be  elected  instead  of  William  de  Stapulton, 
who  is  now  made  a  forester  there  and  ought  not  to  exercise  both  offices 
together. 

To  the  same.  Order  to  cause  four  verderers  of  the  forest  of  Ingelwode 
to  be  elected  instead  of  William  Dartret,  William  de  Laton,  Richard 
Vaus  and  John  de  Buticombe,  who  are  dead. 

Feb.  16.  To    William    Auncell    escheator   in    Oxfordshire.     Order   to    cause 

Westminster.  Thomas  de  Meaux,  cousin  and  heir  of  Thomas  de  Meaux  tenant  by 
knight  service  of  the  heir  of  Hugh  de  Plescy  tenant  in  chief  a  minor 
in  the  king's  wardship,  to  have  seisin  of  the  lands  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  the  said  Thomas  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of 
the  said  Thomas  his  heir  ;  as  he  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator, 
and  the  king  has  taken  his  fealty. 

Feb.  15.  To  Thomas  Sewale  escheator  in  Oxfordshire  {sic).     Order  not  to 

Westminster,  meddle  further  A\-ith  divers  lands  in  that  county  held  by  Richard 
de  Goushull  clerk  deceased  in  right  of  Alice  his  wife,  delivering  to 
her  any  issues  thereof  taken  since  his  deatli  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Richard  at  his 
death  held  no  lands  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the 
aforesaid  lands  in  right  of  his  said  wife,  and  that  the  same  are  held 
of  others  than  the  king. 


3G4 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1372. 


Membrane  31 — cont. 


Feb.  18.  To     Richard    Xorwych    escheator    in    Kent.      Order    to    remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  2^  acres  1  rood  of 
meadow  in  a  meadow  called  Fylysmede  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
the  death  of  John  son  of  John  Adam,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  at  his  command 
by  Joim  de  Bisshopeston  late  escheator,  tliat  the  said  John  son  of 
John  at  liis  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne 
as  of  fee,  but  held  the  meadow  aforesaid  of  the  prior  of  Commewelle, 
and  divers  other  lands  of  divers  other  lords,  and  that  he  died  without 
an  heir. 

Feb.  20.  To  William  Strete  the  king's  butler,  or  to  his  representative  in  the 

Westminster,  port  of  the  city  of  London.     Order  of  the  king's  wines  to  cause  one  tun 

of  red  wine  to  be  brought  w  ithout  delay  to  Westminster  for  consumption 

of  the  council  there  holden.  By  K. 


Feb.  16.  To  the  chamberlain  of  the  king's  '  Gihalde  '  London  for  the  time 

Westminster,  being.  Writ  de  intendendo,  directing  him  to  be  answerable  to  William 
son  of  Richard  Englys  for  10/.  of  yearly  rent  in  Suthwerk  from 
3  February  last,  paying  the  same  to  him  at  the  accustomed  terms 
accoiding  to  the  king's  letters  patent  ;  as  on  1  May  in  the  31st  year 
of  his  reign,  for  the  good  service  of  the  said  Richard  now  deceased, 
the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  to  him  and  the  heirs  male  of  his 
body  the  remainder  of  10/.  of  yearl}^  rent  there,  then  held  for  life 
of  the  king's  grant  by  William  de  Altecar  (now  deceased)  with  reversion 
to  the  king  and  liis  heirs,  to  hold  by  the  services  thereof  due  and 
accustomed  and  by  the  service  of  keeping  a  certain  greyhound 
{leporalium)  of  the  king's  at  his  command  ;  and  after  on  3  February 
last,  on  the  finding  of  an  inquisition  taken  at  the  king's  command 
by  John  de  Bisshopeston  late  escheator  in  Surrey,  that  the  said  William 
de  Altecar  is  dead,  and  died  seised  of  the  said  rent  by  virtue  of  the 
king's  grant,  and  that  William  son  of  the  said  Richard  is  his  said 
father's  next  heir  and  of  full  age,  the  king  commanded  Uvery  thereof 
to  be  given  to  him. 

[1371.] 

Dec.  25.  To  John  Knyvet  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hold  pleas 

Westminster,  before  the  king.  Order  to  make  inquisition  touching  the  matters  here- 
inafter rehearsed  by  true  men  of  the  vicinage  of  Stratford  upon  Aven 
within  liberties  and  without,  not  allied  by  affinity  or  kinship  to  John 
de  Peyto,  and  further  to  do  what  ought  by  the  laAv  and  custom  of 
England  to  be  done  ;  as  in  a  cause  before  the  king  in  chancery  between 
the  king  and  John  de  Peyto  the  elder  concerning  the  unlawful 
occupation  of  the  manor  of  Stratford  upon  Aven  co.  Warrewyk, 
and  concerning  the  receipt  of  the  issues  and  profits  thereof,  which 
manor  is  parcel  of  the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric  of  Worcester  and 
was  without  the  king's  licence  acquired  for  Hfe  by  the  said  Jolin  on 
12  August  in  the  13th  year  of  the  reign  from  Wolstan  late  bishop  of 
Worcester,  rendering  to  the  said  bishop  and  to  his  successors  60/. 
a  year  at  Michaelmas,  St.  Andrew,  the  Annunciation  and  Midsummer 
by  even  portions,  the  said  John  by  Robert  Burgylon  his  attorney 
alleged  that  the  said  manor  was  then  worth  not  more  than  60/.  a 
year,  and  craved  proof  thereof,  and  Michael  Skyllyng  suing  for  the 
king  said  that  the  same  was  at  the  time  of  the  said  demise  and  was 


46    EDWARD    III. 


365 


[1371.] 


1372. 

March  4. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  31 — conl. 

yet  worth  71/.  3s'.  4(/.,  as  is  found  by  irKiuisition  of  his  office  taken 
by  John  Rous  hite  eschcator  in  Wai\\  ickshifc,  craving  that  inquisition 
be  thereupon  mad(;  by  the  country,  and  the  said  John  Hkewise  ;  and 
because  the  issues  and  profits  of  tlie  said  manor  from  12  August  afore- 
said to  the  feast  of  St.  Barnabas  in  the  44tli  year,  on  wiiich  day  by 
virtue  of  the  escheator's  inquisition  aforesaid  the  same  was  taken 
into  the  king's  hand,  pertain  to  the  king,  as  is  plain  by  the  record 
and  process  thereupon  had  in  chancery,  the  king  gave  the  said  John 
Pcyto  a  day  to  be  before  him  in  the  (piinzaine  of  >St.  Hilary  next  in 
order  to  do  and  receive  what  shall  be  lawful  in  the  premises. 

Vacated  because  upon  the  Close  Roll  of  the  ^olh  year  under  the  above 
date. 

To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  and  chamberlains  of  the  exchequer 
of  Ireland.  Strict  order,  for  particular  causes  laid  before  the  king 
and  council,  not  to  make  any  payments  of  any  sums  of  money  for 
this  instant  term  of  Easter  or  thenceforward  without  the  king's  special 
command  to  them  addressed  under  tlie  great  seal  of  England,  nor  to 
make  assignment  for  payment  of  any  moneys  to  any  person  by  tallies 
or  otherwise.  By  K.  and  C. 


Membrane  30. 

March  6.  To  John  de  Botheby  the  king's  clerk,  chancellor  of  Ireland.  Strict 
Westminster,  order,  for  particular  causes,  not  to  cause  any  charters,  letters  of  pardon 
or  remission  of  felonies  or  trespasses  whatsoever,  writs  of  favour  or 
concerning  payments  to  be  made  or  otherwise  to  be  sealed  under  the 
great  seal  of  Ireland,  w^hich  is  in  his  keeping,  by  virtue  of  any  command 
or  warrant  of  William  de  Wyndesore  the  kings  lieutenant  in  Ireland 
to  the  chancellor  addressed  or  made,  until  he  shall  have  further 
order  under  the  great  seal  of  England,  save  onlv  writs  which  are  of 


course  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  Ireland. 


ByK. 


Feb.  3.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.     Order,  under  a  pain  of  100 

Westminster,  marks,  to  cause  the  place  of  Tourehulle  to  be  cleansed  and  hereafter 
kept  clean  of  dung,  ordure  and  other  filth,  that  by  their  default  no 
harm  or  peril  happen  henceforward  to  any  from  the  corruption  and 
stench,  by  reason  whereof  the  king  need  be  wroth  w  ith  them  as  having 
despised  his  command  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  credible  witness 
that  the  air  upon  Tourehulle  is  so  tainted  thereby  as  to  strike  the 
men  dwelling  all  about  and  the  passers  by  with  disgust  and  loathing, 
and  that  great  danger  is  acknowledged  to  arise  therefrom  to  the 
nuisance  of  the  said  men  and  others  there  having  their  conversation 
or  passing  by  and  to  the  manifest  peril  of  their  life  ;  and  the  king 
will  no  longer  endure  these  grievous  and  intolerable  defaults.     By  K. 


March  9.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull.  Order  to 
Westminster,  dearrest  14  bales  of  '  madir,'  5  bales  of  '  alum,'  one  pipe  of  almonds, 
3  barrels  and  2  cases  of  '  sope,'  2  dozen  of  pepper  and  2  bales  of  saffron 
of  Lambert  ToUe,  delivering  to  the  said  Lambert  the  goods  if  they 
exist,  and  if  not  the  price  or  value  thereof,  suffering  him  as  the  king's 
friend  and  well  w^ishcr  freely  to  pass  whither  he  will  with  the  same, 
after  payment  of  the  customs  and  subsidies  thereupon  due,  or  [to  take] 
such  price  or  value,  notwithstanding    the  king's  command  to  sell 


36  i  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1372,  Membrane  30 — cont. 

the  said  goods  to  his  use  and  to  answer  to  him  for  the  money  thereof 
arising  ;  as  lately  the  said  mayor  and  bailiffs  arrested  the  said  Lambert 
in  that  port  as  the  king's  enemy  of  Flanders  and  his  goods  and  mer- 
chandise aforesaid,  and  for  that  the  said  Lambert  professed  that  he 
was  of  Zeland  and  of  the  king's  friendship  and  not  of  Flanders,  and 
found  before  them  particular  mainpernors  that  he  should  bring  again 
letters  from  Zeland  witnessing  the  same,  they  suffered  him  to  go  ; 
and  the  king  gave  the  command  aforesaid,  learning  that  the  said 
Lambert  was  of  Flanders  and  his  enemy  and  not  of  Zeland,  but  it 
is  before  him  witnessed  by  letters  patent  as  well  of  the  exhevins,  consuls 
and  commonalty  {universilalis)  of  Dordrecht  in  the  county  of  Holland 
as  of  the  burgomasters,  echevins  and  consuls  of  Middelburgh  in  the 
said  county  produced  openly  before  him  that  the  said  Lambert  is 
of  the  parish  of  Leederdamme,  born  and  bred  under  the  dominion 
of  Duke  Albert,  that  the  said  goods  are  of  him  and  his  brethren  being 
likewise  of  the  king's  friendship,  and  that  no  Fleming  has  a  share 
therein. 

Feb.  10.  To  William  Auncel  escheator  in  the  county  of  Suthampton.     Order 

Westminster,  to  deliver  to  John  Aulton  and  Agnes  his  wife,  Jolin  Enefeld  and 
Christina  his  wife  and  Peter  atte  Barre  and  Joan  liis  wife  three  fourths 
of  a  messuage,  one  carucate  of  land  and  a  water  mill  in  Froille  which  were 
of  Walter  atte  Boure  who  feloniously  slew  himself,  together  with  the 
issues  taken  of  those  three  fourths,  according  to  the  judgment  and  the 
form  of  the  fine  and  charter  hereinafter  recited  ;  as  on  16  October 
last  for  40s.  paid  by  him  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  to  Nicholas 
Huse,  without  rendering  aught  further  to  the  king,  the  year  and  a  day 
and  the  waste  of  the  premises,  held  of  the  said  Nicholas  bj^  the  said 
Walter  and  extended  at  20s.  a  year  over  and  above  the  rent  resolute, 
being  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  that  felony  as  is  found 
by  certificate  of  John  Froille  then  escheator  sent  at  the  king's 
command  ;  and  after  at  the  suit  of  Alice  atte  Boure,  the  said  John 
Aulton  and  Agnes,  John  Enefeld  and  Christina,  Peter  and  Joan, 
praying  the  king  to  revoke  his  said  letters  patent  obtained  by  untrue 
suggestion  and  concealment  of  the  truth,  as  by  fine  levied  in  the 
court  of  King  Edward  I  in  his  18th  year  Walter  de  la  Perye  and  Alice 
his  wife  acquired  from  W^illiam  de  la  Boure  the  said  messuage  and 
land  by  name  of  a  messuage  and  two  virgates  of  land  in  Froille  to 
them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  they  had  issue  William  their 
son  and  heir,  who  had  issue  the  said  Walter  atte  Boure,  Alice  atte 
Boure,  Agnes  and  Christina,  and  Isabel  mother  of  the  said  Joan, 
and  WilHam  de  la  Chaumbre  by  charter  gave  the  said  mill  to  the  said 
Walter  de  la  Perye  and  Alice  his  mfe  in  frank  marriage,  and  the  said 
Walter  atte  Boure  had  no  estate  in  the  premises  save  in  fee  tail  by 
virtue  of  the  fine  and  charter  aforesaid,  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff 
to  give  notice  to  the  said  Nicholas  to  be  in  chancery  in  the  quinzaine 
of  St.  Martin  last  to  shew  cause  wherefore  the  said  letters  patent  should 
not  be  revoked  and  the  premises  delivered  to  the  said  AHce  atte  Boure 
and  the  parceners,  and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court  should 
determine  ;  at  which  day  came  the  said  Nicholas,  and  likewise  the 
said  John  and  Agnes,  John  and  Christina,  Peter  and  Joan,  and  Alice 
atte  Boure  came  not,  but  did  not  prosecute  her  right  in  that  behalf, 
and  the  said  Nicholas  said  nought  effectual  wherefore  the  said  letters 
patent  should  not  be  revoked  and  the  premises  delivered  as  aforesaid, 


46  EDWARD  HI. 


3G7 


1372,  Membrane  30 — cont. 

whereby  it  was  determined  that  the  same  should  l)e  revoked  in 
regard  to  three  fourths  of  the  premises,  and  those  three  fourths  should 
with  the  issues  thereof  taken  be  delivered  to  the  said  John  and  Agnes, 
John  and  (Christina,  Peter  and  Joan,  and  that  in  regard  to  the 
fourth  part  the  said  Nicholas  should  go  without  a  day. 

March  14.        To  the  sheriff  of  Warrewyk.     Order  to  cause  a  corpner  to  be  elected 
Wostminstor.  instead  of  \Villiani  atte  Wode,  who  is  insufficiently  cjualitied. 


March  15.        To  the  same.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead  of 
Westminster.  John  Wychard,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

April  1.  To  John  Waskham  escheator  in  Devon.     Order  to  make  inquisition 

Westminster,  by  men  of  his  bailiwick  concerning  the  truth  of  the  matters  hereinafter 
mentioned,  and  further  to  do  what  pertains  to  his  office,  so  that  by 
his  negligence  no  loss  shall  happen  to  tlie  king,  certifying  the  king  under 
his  seal  of  such  inquisition,  of  the  true  value  of  the  lands,  fees  and 
advowsons  of  Robert  Spekc,  and  the  name  of  the  felon  to  whom  the 
same  ought  to  remain,  and  of  all  his  action  in  the  matter,  and  sending 
again  this  writ  ;  as  information  is  given  to  the  king  that  the  said 
Robert  accjuired  to  him  and  the  heirs  of  his  body  certain  lands,  fees  and 
ad\'owsons  with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  one  of  whose 
name  the  king  has  not  yet  information,  who  for  a  felony  by  him  com- 
mitted has  abjured  the  realm,  by  reason  of  which  felony  the  premises 
ought  to  pertain  to  the  king  for  that  the  said  Robert  died  without 
issue  it  is  said. 

April  24.         To  the  sheriff  of  Derby.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  John  Fraunceys,  who  is  sick  and  aged. 

May  4.  To   Edmund  Cheyne  escheator  in  Somerset.     Order  to   take  the 

Westminster,  fealty  of  John  son  and  heir  of  John  Combe  knight  according  to  the 
form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  deUver  to  him  two  thirds  of 
the  manor  of  Baudrip  and  four  tenements  in  Waldepulle,  saving  to  the 
king  his  marriage,  and  the  issues  taken  of  the  premises  since  6  January 
in  the  38th  year  of  the  reign,  if  the  same  ought  to  pertain  to  the  king  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
John  Combe  knight  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief 
in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  in  his  life  time  demised  to  John  Baudrip 
for  life  with  reversion  to  himself  and  his  heirs  the  two  thirds  and  the 
four  tenements  aforesaid,  which  are  held  by  knight  service  of  Richard 
son  and  heir  of  Nicholas  Seymour  tenant  in  chief,  a  minor  in  the 
king's  wardship,  as  of  his  manor  of  Castelcary,  that  the  said  John 
Baudrip  after  aliened  the  premises  in  fee  to  Robert  Hamelyn  and 
Walter  Byke  chaplain,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  by  reason  of  which 
alienation  in  fee  made  contrary  to  the  statute  of  Gloucester  the  said 
John  son  of  John  Combe,  being  within  age,  on  6  January  aforesaid 
entered  the  premises  as  those  \\  hich  descended  to  him  by  inlieritance 
after  his  said  father's  death,  and  that  he  is  now  of  full  age. 

April  24.         To  John  Cameles  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.     Order  to  take 

Westminster,  of  Katheiine  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  Dengayn  tenant  in  chief  an 

oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign 


LOS 


CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS 


1372.  Membrane  30 — cont. 

her  dower  of  her  said  liiisband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
his  death,  sending  the  assignment  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

April  28.         To  Thomas  Sewale  escheator  in  Bukinghamshi.'-e.     Like  order  to 
Westminster,  take  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Walter  atte  Grove  an  oath  that  she  will 
not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign  her  dower  of  her 
said  husband'.s  lands. 

May  10.  To  Thomas  GrenehuUc  escheator  in  Derbyshire.     Order   to  take 

Westminster,  the  fealty  of  Wiiiiani  son  of  Richard  de  Sandeacre  according  to  the 
form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  to  take  of  him  security  for  payment  of  his 
reUef  at  the  exchequer,  and  to  give  him  livery  of  a  messuage  (sic) 
and  land  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Richard  son  of 
William  son  of  Henry  de  Sandeacre  chaplain  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  cha]>lain  at  his 
death  hold  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  two  messuages  and  four  bovates 
of  land  in  Sandeacre  in  chief  by  the  service  of  ISs.  4d.  a  year  payable 
to  the  king  at  the  Annunciation  and  the  Nativity  of  St.  Mary  by  the 
hands  of  the  sheriff  for  all  service,  and  that  the  said  William,  being 
son  of  Richard  brother  of  WiUiam  the  said  chaplain's  father,  is  his 
next  heir  and  of  full  age. 

Vacated,  because  otherwise  upon  the  Fine  Roll  for  this  year. 


Membrane  29. 

March  17.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  London.  Order,  upon 
Westminster,  the  petition  of  William  Wynde  merchant  of  London,  if  assured  that 
16  sacks  3  stone  of  wool  for  which  he  paid  custom  at  the  staple  of 
Kermerdyn  are  of  the  growth  of  Wales,  to  suffer  the  said  William  or 
his  attorneys  to  open  the  said  sacks,  put  and  pack  the  wool  in  small 
pockets  at  his  pleasure,  lade  it  in  tarits  or  other  ships,  and  without 
payment  of  custom  or  subsidy  to  the  king's  use  freely  to  take  it  over 
sea  without  let  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  he  lately  bought  so  much 
wool  of  the  growth  of  Wales  and  brought  it  to  London,  and  that  the 
same  was  weighed  and  cocketed  in  the  said  staple  of  Edward  prince 
of  Aquitaine  and  Wales,  and  the  custoai  was  there  truly  paid,  as  by 
the  said  prince's  letters  of  cocket  openly  produced  before  the  king 
may  appear,  praying  licence  to  lade  and  take  the  said  wool  over 
sea  as  aforesaid  to  make  his  advantage  thereof  ;  and  in  the  ordinances 
lately  made  concerning  the  holding  of  staples  of  wool  in  England 
it  is  contained  (among  other  things)  that  it  shall  be  lawful  for  men 
of  Ireland  and  Wales,  who  in  those  parts  may  not  deliver  wool,  woolfells 
and  hides  to  foreign  merchants,  to  come  therew  ith  to  any  of  the  staples 
in  England  after  the  same  are  customed  and  cocketed  in  Ireland  or 
Wales,  and  when  they  shall  come  to  any  staple  in  England  bringing 
letters  of  cocket  witnessing  that  the  same  have  been  so  customed 
and  cocketed,  neither  they  nor  the  merchants  buying  such  merchandise 
of  them  shall  a  second  time  pay  customs  or  subsidies  thereupon. 
Proviso  that  no  avooI  of  the  growth  of  England  be  taken  over  with 
the  wool  aforesaid. 

March  20.        To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Bristol.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of 

Westminster.  Stephen  de  la  Foury  master  of  a  ship  called  '  la  Seinte  Marie  '  of 

Bayon  and  of  his  fellows  the  seamen  thereof,  to  dearrest  the  said  ship 


40   EDWARD   riT.  3G9 


1372.  Membrane  29 — cont. 

witliout  delay,  .siiif(Min<T  tho  said  seamen  freely  to  go  their  way  ; 
as  their  i)etition  shews  that  they  eaine  to  the  said  town  from  Gascony 
with  the  said  ship  and  divers  wines  therein  laded,  and  there  imladed 
those  wines,  and  that  the  sliip  is  in  that  port  arrested  for  the  king's 
service  among  other  the  ships  of  England. 

April  8.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exche([uer.     Order  to  view 

VVestminstor.  a  process  before  them  had,  and  if  assured  by  view  thereof  and  by  an 
incpiisition  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  John  de  Wcye  that  the 
matters  hereinafter'  reliearsed  are  true,  to  stay  their  demand  niade 
by  exchc(pier  summons  against  Ricliard  Diere  of  Bruggewauter  and 
Roger  de  Wollavjaigton  late  bailiffs  of  Bruggewauter  for  86/.  5s.  4ri, 
to  the  king's  use  as  the  price  of  a  ship  and  330  quarters  of  corn  therein 
Jaded,  discharging  them  thereof  the  delivery  of  the  said  ship's  sailing 
gear  (vclaminis)  notwithstanding,  and  charging  those  who  are  indicted 
for  the  same  and  by  law  ought  to  be  charged  ;  as  by  plaint  made  on 
behalf  of  the  said  Richard  it  is  shewn  the  king  that  he  and  the  said 
Roger  by  reason  of  their  ofhce  arrested  as  forfeit  to  the  king  two 
ships  in  that  port  by  John  Godeslond  and  others  laded  with  480  (piarters 
of  coin  of  divers  sorts  for  foreign  jiarts  after  the  proclamation  forbidding 
corn  to  be  taken  out  of  the  realm  imder  pain  of  forfeiture  tlieicof, 
that  because  the  said  John  Godeslond  and  other  liis  accomplices  with 
armed  power  broke  the  said  arrest,  John  de  Clyvedon  and  other 
hegcs  \\ere  by  the  king  appointed  to  make  inquisition  touching 
the  premises,  that  by  inquisition  before  them  made  at  the  suit 
and  expense  of  the  said  bailififs  it  was  found  that  the  said 
John  Godeslond  broke  the  said  arrest,  took  and  carried  away 
one  of  the  said  ships  laded  with  150  quarters,  and  \\as  thereof 
convicted  before  the  treasurer  and  the  barons,  that  others  are  indicted 
for  breaking  the  arrest  of  the  other  shiji  laded  \\ith  330  cjuarters  as 
by  process  before  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  may  appear,  and  that 
although  answer  is  made  to  the  king  [by]  John  Godeslond  concerning 
one  ship  and  150  quarters,  and  although  it  is  likewise  found  by  the 
said  other  inquisition  after  taken  by  mandate  of  the  exchequer  and 
there  returned  that  John  atte  Hale  late  sheriff  of  Somerset,  by  virtue 
of  the  king's  command  to  him  addressed  to  sell  the  corn  in  the  other 
ship  by  the  said  bailiffs  arrested,  with  the  said  Richard  entered  by 
Walter  atte  More  his  clerk  in  order  to  execute  that  command,  and 
forthwith  after  production  of  that  mandate,  before  the  same  was 
or  might  be  executed,  the  sailors  thereof  made  a  rescue  upon  the 
sheiiff  and  hindered  such  execution,  and  when  the  sheriff  returned 
to  the  said  town  for  aid  departed  with  the  ship  and  corn  upon  the 
tide,  so  that  the  said  late  bailiffs  took  nor  might  have  taken 
naught  thereof,  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  considering  not  these 
things  have  unlawfully  charged  them  toward  the  king  to  answer  for 
the  price  of  the  said  ship  laded  with  330  quarters  so  rescued  and  carried 
away  and  of  the  corn,  for  that  they  delivered  to  the  seamen  thereof 
the  sailing  gear  of  the  ship  which  the  said  bailiffs  had  in  their  keeping 
after  the  arrest  by  them  made,  praying  for  remedy. 

April  12.         To  William  de  Latymer  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden 

Westminster,  of  the  Cinque  Ports,  or  to  his  lieutenant.     Order  with  all  speed  to 

cause  six  sliips  and  barges  arrayed  for  war  within  the  liberty  of  the 

said  ports  to  be  appointed  and  put  to  sea  during  one  month  according 

to  the  king's  directions  ;  as  for  certain  liberties  and  immunities  to 

tR  34 


370 


CALENDAR    OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  20 — cont. 

them  granted  by  the  king's  forefathers  the  barons  of  the  said  ports 
are  bound  at  their  costs  to  find  a  set  number  of  sliips  in  the  king's 
■\Aar  to  put  to  sea  upon  reasonable  warning.  By  K. 

{Foedera.^ 

April  8.  To  Thomas  dc  Xavenby  eschoator  in  Lincolnshire.     Order  to  take 

Westminster,  of  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  John  dc  Appclby  tenant  in  chief  an  oath 

that  she  will  not  marry  \\ithout  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign  her 

dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his 

death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  sending  the  assignment 

under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

April  14.         To  Edmund  de  Burton  escheator  in  Salop.     Like  order,  mutatis 
Westminster.  m%Uandis,  in  favour  of  Joyce  who  was  wife  of  James  Pipe  tenant 
in  chief. 

April  18.  To  Thomas  de  Navenby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Order  in 
Westminster,  presence  of  Robert  Hauley,  to  whom  the  king  has  committed  the 
wardship  of  the  lands  of  Williajn  de  Bleseby  tenant  in  chief  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his 
heir,  if  being  warned  he  \\'\\\  attend,  to  assign  to  Katherine  who  was 
wife  of  the  said  William  dower  of  his  said  lands,  sending  the  assign- 
ment under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery  ;  as  the  king  by  letters 
patent  has  granted  the  said  Katherine  power  to  marry  whomsoever 
she  will. 

April  18.  To  Ralph  Basset.  Writ  de  intendendo,  directing  him  to  deliver 
Westminster,  in  ward  to  Blanche  Wake  the  bodies  of-  John  son  and  heir  of 
John  Moubray  tenant  in  chief  and  Thomas  his  brother,  now  in 
the  wardship  of  the  said  Ralph,  and  of  the  issues  of  the  lands 
of  the  said  heir's  heritage  to  pay  her  100  marks  every  year  at 
Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions  so  long  as  he  shall  have 
the  Avaidship  thereof,  taking  her  acquittance  ;  as  the  king  has 
committed  to  the  said  Blanche  until  their  lawful  age  the  wardship 
of  the  said  John  and  Thomas,  being  within  age  and  in  the  king's 
wardship,  taking  100  marks  a  year  by  the  hands  of  the  said  Ralph 
so  long  as  he  shall  of  the  king's  grant  have  the  wardship  of  the 
said  lands,  and  afterwards  at  the  exchequer.  By  C. 

April  16.  To  the  bailifJs  of  Kyngeston  upon  Thames  for  the  time  being. 
Westminster.  Order  of  the  farm  of  the  said  town  to  jiay  to  Emma  Avho  was  wife  of 
Master  Richard  Leche  the  king's  surgeon  every  year  101.  at  IVIichaelmas 
and  Easter  by  even  portions,  taking  her  acquittance ;  as  of  his  favour 
and  for  the  good  service  of  the  said  Richard  in  his  life  time  the  king 
by  letters  patent  has  granted  the  said  Emma  10/.  a  year  to  be  taken 
by  the  hands  of  the  said  bailifPs  during  her  life  or  until  other  order  shall 
be  taken  concerning  her  estate. 
Et  erat  patens. 


April  24.         To    William   Auncell   escheator   in   Berkshire.     Order   to   remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  four  virgates  of  land 

in  Westchaulo,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  since  the  death 

of  Edmund  de  Chelrey  knight ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 

taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Edmund  at  his  death  held  the 


4G  EDWARD  III.  371 


1372.  Membrane  29 — cont. 

said  land  jointly  with  Margaret  his  sister  (yet  living)  with  reversion 
after  her  death  to  his  heirs,  and  that  the  same  is  held  of  others  than 
the  king. 

Membrane  28. 

April  4.  To  Philip  de  Courtenay  admiral  of  the  king's  fleet  from  the  mouth 

Westminster,  of  the  Thames  A\estward,  or  to  his  lieutenants  in  the  counties  of 
Somerset,  Dorset,  Suthamjiton,  Devon  and  Cornwall.  Strict  order 
to  cause  all  seamen  in  singular  the  ports  of  those  counties  to  be  arrested 
and  kept  under  arrest  until  they  [shall  find]  security,  for  which  the 
said  admiral  and  lieutenants  will  answer,  to  be  ready  upon  warning 
received  on  the  king's  l)ehalf  to  sail  upon  the  king's  service  and  furnish 
the  ships  appointed  for  his  passage  over  sea,  that  by  default  of  the 
said  admiral  and  lieutenants  or  of  the  said  seamen  the  king's  passage 
be  not  delayed  ;  as  the  king  is  informed  that  great  number  of  the 
seamen  a})pointed  for  equipment  of  the  said  ships  are  withdrawing 
and  eloigning  themselves  in  order  to  fish  and  for  divers  other  causes, 
in  contempt  of  the  king  and  to  the  delay  of  his  passage,  whereat  he 
is  moved  to  anger.  By  K. 

[Fcedera.] 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

Walter  de  Hanle  the  king's  Serjeant  at  arms  and  lieutenant  of 

the  said  admiral. 
Thomas  Fisshacre  lieutenant  of  the  said  admiral. 
The  bailiffs  of  Plymmuth,  to  arrest  all  seamen  of  the  said  town. 
The  bailiffs  of  Lymynton  and  of  14  other  towns. 
[Ibid.] 

April  5.  To  the  sherifi'  of  Essex.  Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  Thomas  Pelliam,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

April  13.  To  William  de  Latj^mer  keeper  of  the  king's  forest  beyond  Trent, 
Westminster,  or  to  his  representative  in  Ingelwode  forest.  Order  if  Hugh  Boget, 
taken  and  imprisoned  in  Carleol  prison  for  an  alleged  trespass  of 
venison  in  the  said  forest  for  which  he  is  indicted,  shall  find  twelve 
true  men  in  that  bailiw  ick  who  will  mainpern  to  have  him  before  the 
justices  in  eyre  for  pleas  of  the  forest  in  Cumberland  when  they  shall 
come  thither,  in  order  to  stand  to  right  concerning  that  trespass,  to 
deliver  him  to  bail  if  replevisable  according  to  the  assize  of  the  forest, 
bringing  before  the  said  justices  the  names  of  the  mainpernors  and 
this  writ. 

April  15.  To  John  Knyvet  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hold  pleas 
Westminster,  before  the  king.  Order  by  writ  of  nisi  prius  to  cause  the  inquisition 
"whereupon  John  Beworth  and  Joan  his  wife  have  put  themselves 
before  the  king,  being  indicted  for  counselling  and  ordering  the  death 
of  Richard  Shirbourne  '  goldsmyth '  of  Wyncestre  who  was  slain 
by  John  Gust  of  Wyncestre  it  is  said,  to  be  taken  before  them  the 
said  justices  or  one  of  them,  or  before  the  justices  of  assize. 

April  18.         To  the  sherifE  of  Essex.      Order  to  cause  a  verderer  of  Walthara 
Westminster,  forest  to  be  elected  instead  of  Thomas  Samkyn,  who  is  abiding  over 
sea. 


372  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1372,  Membrane  28 — cont. 

To  the  same.      Like  order  for  election  of  a  verderer  of    the  said 
forest  instead  of  John  Stoke,  who  is  dead. 

April  18.  To  Thomas  Cans  of  Hookham  esoheator  in  Suffolk.  Order  to  cause 
VVestniinstor.  William  son  and  heir  of  Walter  del  Lsle  tenant  in  chief  to  have 
seisin  of  the  lands  of  his  said  father  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
his  death  ;  as  the  said  William  has  proved  his  age  before  Ricliard 
Norwych  escheator  in  Sussex,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage 
and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [29125.] 

Feb.  28.  To  John  de  Bernes  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator 

Westminster,  therein.  Order  to  do  and  execute  that  which  by  law  pertains  to  his 
office  in  regard  to  certain  tenements  and  rents  held  by  Hugh  Motoun 
deceased,  certifying  under  seal  in  chancery  his  action  in  that  behalf 
without  delay  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  John 
Louekyn  late  mayor  and  escheator,  that  the  said  Hugh  died  seized  of  I85. 
of  yearly  rent  issuing  from  a  certain  tenement  pertaining  to  St.  Martin 
le  Grand  and  situate  in  Sopereslane  London,  6s.  of  yearly  rent 
issuing  from  a  tenement  of  John  de  Thorney  in  the  parish  of  St.  Mary 
Aldermariechirche  and  from  three  small  houses  situate  without 
Crepulgate  near  the  bar  by  a  house  sometime  of  Gilbert  le  Carpenter 
towards  the  south,  with  I2d.  of  yearly  rent  issuing  from  a  tenement 
opposite  the  said  three  houses  and  held  by  Thomas  de  Morle,  that  in 
his  testament  proved,  published  and  enrolled  in  the  busting  of  London 
holden  on  Monday  the  morrow  of  Trinity  18  Henry  III  the  said  Hugh 
gave  and  bequeathed  the  said  houses  and  rents  in  aid  of  the  main- 
tenance of  one  chaplain  celebrating  St.  Mary's  mass  every  day  for 
ever  iri  Aldermariechirche  for  his  soul,  the  souls  of  his  wife,  of  Walter 
Motoun  and  of  the  faithful  departed,  and  for  maintenance  of  torches 
in  the  said  church,  that  the  churchwardens  thereof  for  the  time  being 
were  seised  of  the  said  houses  and  rent  in  aid  of  the  said  chaplain's 
maintenance,  and  by  virtue  of  that  bequest  have  all  taken  the  said 
rent  and  occupied  the  said  three  small  houses,  and  that  the  said  houses 
and  rents  are  held  of  the  king  in  free  burgage  as  all  the  city  of  London. 

April  17.  To  John  Bataille  escheator  in  Essex.  Order  to  deliver  to  Wilham 
Westminster.  Berland  knight  a  messuage,  120  acres  of  land,  5  acres  of  meadow, 
4  acres  of  wood  and  Ss.  4f/.  of  rent  in  the  town  of  Reylegh  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  as  hereinafter  mentioned,  together  with  the  issues 
thereof  taken  since  5  August  in  the  37th  year  of  the  reign  ;  as  lately 
it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator  at  the  king's  command, 
that  Adam  de  Haverberge,  who  died  on  that  date,  held  the  premises 
of  the  king  as  of  the  honour  of  Reylegh  by  the  service  of  a  third 
part  of  one  knight's  fee,  that  John  de  Haverberge  his  son  and  heir 
being  of  the  age  of  31  years  after  his  father's  death  straightway 
entered  the  same  without  due  process  or  livery  out  of  the  king's 
hand  as  the  manner  is,  and  enfeoffed  the  said  W^illiam  thereof, 
and  that  the  premises  are  for  that  reason  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  ;  and  on  16  April  last  the  king  of  his  favour  and  for  101.  by 
the  said  William  paid  pardoned  him  the  contempt  and  trespasses 
therein  committed,  granting  so  far  as  in  him  lies  that  the  said  William 
shall  have  again  and  hold  the  premises  according  to  the  feoffment, 
and  remitting  to  the  said  John  and  WilUam  as  well  the  issues  and 
profits  thereof  to  the  king  pertaining  since  5  August  aforesaid  as  the 


4(1    KDWAHl)   Tl[. 


373 


1372.  Membrane  28 — cont. 

said  John's  ri'liof  to  liim  likcwisi-  poitnining  ;    and  the  king  has  now 

By  p.s.  [2i)117.] 


taken  the  said  William's  homage  and  fealty. 


April  22.  To  the  sheriff  of  Salop.  Order  to  cause  John  de  Eton  and  Florence 
Westminster,  his  wife  to  have  seisin  of  a  mill,  GO  acres  of  land,  (i  acres  of  meadow 
and  2  acres  of  wood  in  Eton  Costant\Ti  held  by  Edmund  de  Drayton 
outlawed  for  felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king  lias  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  sheriff,  that  the  premises  have  been  in  his  hand  a  year 
and  a  day,  that  the  said  Ednumd  held  them  of  the  said  John  and 
Florence  in  her  right,  and  that  3Iaud  wife  of  Edmund  de  Drayton 
holds  the  premises,  and  b^'^  demise  of  Philip  de  Lutteleye  late 
escheator  had  the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste  thereof  and  ought 
to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  same. 

April  26.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.  Order  to  cause  Thomas  de  Roos  of  Hamelak 
Westmifister.  to  have  seisin  of  two  messuages  and  one  bovate  of  land  in  Oswaldkirk 
held  by  Robert  Merlyng  hanged  for  felony  it  is  said,  and  not  yet 
delivered  to  the  said  Thomas  by  John  Bygot  late  sheriff  by  virtue 
of  the  king's  command,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since 
14  February  in  the  45th  year  of  the  reign  ;  as  upon  the  finding  of  an 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  said  late  sheriff,  that  the  premises  had  been 
in  his  hand  a  year  and  a  day  and  more,  that  the  said  Robert  held  them 
of  the  said  Thomas,  and  that  William  Petyt  had  the  year  and  a  day 
and  the  waste  thereof  and  ought  to  answer  for  the  same  to  him, 
the  king  on  that  date  ordered  the  said  late  sheriff  to  cause  the  said 
Thomas  to  have  seisin  of  the  premises  without  delay. 


April  27.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Notification  that  by  these  presents 
Westminster,  the  king  has  revoked  his  letters  patent  of  protection  to  John 
Maryan  for  himself,  his  men,  lands,  property,  rents  and  posses- 
sions, in  order  that  the  sheriffs  may  at  the  plaintiffs'  suit  proceed 
further  in  causes  before  them  pending  against  the  said  John  such 
protection  notwithstanding ;  as  the  king  granted  the  same  on 
26  February  last  to  endure  until  Midsummer  next,  believing  that 
the  said  John  was  aboiit  to  sail  on  his  service  to  parts  over  sea,  such 
protection  to  be  of  none  effect  if  he  should  not  take  that  voyage  or 
should  return  to  England  before  the  said  term  ;  but  by  certificate 
of  the  sheriffs  sent  into  chancery  at  the  king's  conniuind  it  is  found 
that  he  sailed  not  on  the  king's  service,  but  is  continually  abiding 
in  the  city  of  London  occupied  upon  his  own  business. 

Feb.  1.  To    William    Auncell    escheator     in    Oxfordshire,    Berkshire    and 

Westminster.  Wiltesir.  Order  to  cause  John  son  and  heir  of  Jolm  Lenveisy  tenant 
in  chief  to  have  seisin  of  his  father's  lands  taken  into  the  Idng's  hand 
by  his  death  ;  as  the  said  John  the  son  has  proved  his  age  before 
John  Bataille  escheator  in  Hertfordshire,  and  the  king  has  taken  his 
homage  and  fealty.  B^^  p.s.  [28973.] 

May  8.  To  the  constable  of  the  ToAxer  of  London  or  to  his  lieutenant.     Order 

Westminster,  to  sct  free  Master  John  de  Br\Tikele  clerk  from  the  prison  of  the  Tower 
by  mainprise  of  William  archbishop  of  Canterbury  and  Alan  de 
Buxhull,  \\\\o  have  mainperned  for  hiui  that  he  shall  not  prosc^cute 
or  cause  to  be  prosecuted  aught  that  may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of 
the  king's  right  or  of  the  crown.  .  By  C. 


374  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE   ROLLS 


1372.  Membrane  27. 

April  4.  To  John  Carnels  escheator  in  Xoiluinxptonshire.     Order  to  deliver 

Westminster,  to  Margaret  wife  of  Walter  de  Mauny  knigiit  the  manor  of  Oueston 
taken  into  the  king's  liand  by  the  said  Walter's  death,  together  with 
the  issues  thereof  taken,  but  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of 
Barton  Hanred  likewise  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  delivering  to 
the  said  Margaret  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Walter  at  his 
death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  cliief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee, 
but  with  the  king's  licence  held  jointly  with  the  said  Margaret  the 
manor  of  Oueston,  which  is  held  in  chief  by  knight  service,  and  held 
for  her  life  the  said  manor  of  Barton,  which  is  not  held  of  the  king  ; 
and  the  king  has  taken  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  Margaret 
for  the  manor  of  Oueston.  By  p.s.  [29096.] 

To  Edmund  de  Burton  escheator  in  Salop.  Order  to  deliver  to 
Margaret  wife  of  Walter  de  Mauny  knight  the  manor  of  Stotte.sdon, 
the  twentieth  part  thereof  excepted,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
her  said  husband's  death,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as 
it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Walter 
at  his  death  held  the  said  manor  in  right  of  the  said  Margaret  ;  and 
by  another  inquisition  taken  after  the  death  of  John  de  Segrave 
her  first  husband  it  is  found  that  by  fine  levied  in  tlie  king's  court 
with  his  licence  the  said  John  and  Margaret  jointly  held  the  same 
Avith  the  exception  aforesaid  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies, 
and  that  it  is  held  in  chief  by  knight  service  ;  and  the  king  has  taken 
the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  Margaret.         By  p.s.    [*See  the  lastJ] 

Vacated,  because  otherwise  below. 

To  Thomas  de  Grenhulle  escheator  in  Derbyshire.  Order  to  deliver 
to  Margaret  late  wife  of  Walter  de  Mauny  knight  the  manors  of  Coten 
and  Rostlaston  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  her  said  husband's 
death,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken,  but  not  to  meddle 
further  with  the  manor  of  Bretteby  Ukewise  taken  into  the  king's 
hand,  dehvering  to  her  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  it  is  found  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Walter  at  his  death 
held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but 
held  the  said  manors  in  right  of  the  said  Margaret ;  and  by  inquisition 
taken  after  the  death  of  John  de  Segrave  her  first  husband  it  is  found 
that  b}'^  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  wdth  his  licence  the  said  John 
and  Margaret  jointly  held  the  same  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their 
bodies,  and  that  the  manors  of  Coten  and  Rostlaston  are  held  in  chief, 
the  manor  of  Bretteby  of  others  than  the  king  ;  and  the  king  has 
taken  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  Margaret.     By  p.s.  [See  above.] 

To  William  Palmere  escheator  in  Warwickshire  and  Lej'cestershire. 
Order  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of  Aspele,  Alspathe, 
Tluirlaston  and  Flekenho  co.  Warrewyk,  the  manors  of  Coldoverton, 
Dalby,  Segrave,  Sileby,  Mountsorel  and  Witherdele  and  the  hundred 
of  Goscote  CO.  Leycester,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  Walter  de  Mauny  knight,  delivering  to  Margaret  his  mfe  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  the  said  Walter  at  his  death  held  the  premises  in  right  of  the 
said  Margaret ;  and  by  other  inquisitions  taken  after  the  death  of 
John  de  Segrave  her  first  husband  it  is  found  that  by  fine  levied  in 
the  king's  court  with  his  licence  the  said  Jolin  and  Margaret  jointly 


46  EDWARD  HI.  375 


1372.  Membrane  27 — cont. 

held  the  same  to  thorn  and  th(i  lirirs  of  theii-  hodi('>i,  and  tliat  the  said 
luindied  is  lield  in  chief  by  the  service  of  lOOv.  a  year,  and  all  tlio 
said  manors  of  others  than  the  king,  and  the  king  has  taken  the  fealty 
of  the  said  Margaret.  By  p.s.     [See  above.] 

To  Henry  Drury  eschcator  in  Worcestershire.  Like  order,  miUalis 
mutandis  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inciuisition,  taken  by  \\w  escheator,  that 
Walter  do  Manny  knight  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county 
in  chief  in  his  diMnesne  as  of  fee,  but  hekl  the  manor  of  Northpidele 
in  right  of  Margaret  his  wife  ;  and  by  another  inquisition,  taken  after 
the  death  of  John  de  Segrave  her  first  husband,  it  is  found  that  by- 
fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his  hcence  the  said  John  and 
Margaret  jointly  held  the  said  manor  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their 
bodies,  and  that  it  is  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

April  4.  To  Thomas  Caus  of  Hokham  escheator  in  Suffolk.     Order  nob  to 

Westminster,  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Pesenhale  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  Walter  de  Mauny  knight,  delivering  to  Margaret 
his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Walter  at  his  death  held  no 
lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the 
said  manor  in  her  right ;  and  by  another  inquisition,  taken  after  the 
death  of  John  de  Segrave  her  first  husband,  it  is  found  that  by  fine 
levied  in  the  king's  court  the  said  John  and  Margaret  jointly  held  the 
same  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  it  is  held  of  others 
than  the  king. 

To  Thomas  Caus  of  Hokham  escheator  in  Norffolk  and  Suffolk. 
Order  to  deliver  to  Margaret  wife  of  Walter  de  Mauny  knight  the 
manors  of  Lopham,  Fomesete,  Framlj'ngham  Parva  and  Suthfeld 
CO.  Norffolk,  the  manor  of  Walton  co.  Suffolk,  a  moiety  of  the  manor 
of  Dikelburgh  and  the  half  hundred  of  Ersham  co.  Norffolk  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  the  said  Walter's  death,  together  with  the 
issues  thereof  taken,  but  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of 
Stonham  co.  Suffolk  hkewise  so  taken,  delivering  to  her  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  etc.  that  the  said  Walter  held 
the  premises  of  the  right  and  heritage  of  the  said  Margaret,  that  the 
said  manors  of  Lopham  and  Framlyngham,  the  said  moiety  and  half 
hundred  are  held  in  chief  as  in  socage,  the  said  manors  of  Fornesete 
and  Suthfeld  in  chief  by  knight  service,  and  the  said  manor  of  Stonham 
of  others  than  the  king  ;  and  by  another  inquisition,  taken  after  the 
death  of  John  de  Segrave  her  first  husband,  it  is  found  that  the  said 
manor  of  Walton  is  held  in  chief  as  parcel  of  the  earldom  of  Xorffolk ; 
and  the  king  has  taken  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  Margaret. 

By  p.s.     [See  above.] 

To  Thomas  Sewale  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire,  Cambridgeshire 
and  Huntingdonshire.  Order  to  deliver  to  Margaret  wife  of  Walter 
de  Mauny  knight  the  manor  of  Fennystanton,  a  twentieth  part  thereof 
and  the  advowson  excepted,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  her  said 
husband's  death,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken,  but  not  to 
meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Penne  likewise  so  taken,  delivering 
to  her  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inipiisition, 
taken  by  the  eschcator,  that  the  said  Walter  at  his  death  held  no 
lands  in  those  counties  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  for 


IJ7G  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  27 — co7it. 

the  said  Maigarets  life  the  manor  of  Penne  co.  Bukinghain,  the 
manor  of  Eenny.stanton,  certain  lands  and  rents  in  Hilton,  and 
VJl.  18.S'.  O^d.  of  rent  in  Wisebech,  Chaterice,  Dreiton,  Bokesworth 
and  Elsworth  cos.  Cantebrigge  and  Huntingilon  all  parcel  of  the 
said  manor  of  Fennystanton  ;  and  by  other  incjuisitions,  taken  after 
the  death  of  John  de  Segrave  her  first  husband,  it  is  found  that 
by  line  levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his  licence  the  said  John  and 
Margaret  jointly  held  the  said  manors  of  Penne  and  Fennystanton 
with  the  exceptions  aforesaid  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies, 
and  that  the  manor  of  Fennystanton  is  held  in  chief  by  knight  service, 
the  manor  of  Penne  of  others  than  the  king ;  and  the  king  has  taken 
the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  Margaret.        By  p.s.    [See  above.] 

To  tlie  said  Thomas  escheator  in  Bedfordshire,  Cambridgeshire 
and  Huntingdonshire.  Order  to  deliver  to  the  said  Margaret  the 
views  of  frankpledge  of  Dokesworth  co.  Cantebrigge,  Everton  co. 
Huntingdon,  in  Milneho  a  hamlet  of  Dunton  and  in  Stratele  co. 
Bedford  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  said  Walter's  death, 
together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken,  but  not  to  meddle  further 
with  the  manor  and  advovvson  of  Kenet  co.  Cantebrigge  likewise 
so  taken,  delivering  to  her  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  etc.  that  the  said  \Valter  held  of  the  right  and  heritage  of  the 
said  Margaret  the  said  manor  and  advowson,  Avhich  are  not  held  of 
the  king,  the  view  of  frankpledge  of  Dokesworth  which  is  parcel  of 
the  manor  of  Chestreford,  the  view  of  frankpledge  of  Everton,  the 
view  of  frankpledge  in  Milneho  a  hamlet  of  Dunton,  and  the  view 
of  frankpledge  in  Stratele  which  are  parcel  of  the  manor  of  Weston, 
which  manors  of  Chestreford  and  Weston  arc  held  in  cliief  as  parcel 
of  the  earldom  of  Norffolk  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  the  homage  and 
fealty  of  the  said  Margaret.  By  p.s.    [See  above.] 

To  John  Hortesle  of  Letton  escheator  in  Gloucestershire,  Hereford- 
sliire  and  the  march  of  Wales  adjacent.  Order  to  deliver  to  the 
said  Margaret  the  castle  and  lordship  of  StruguU,  and  the  manor  of 
Tudenam  with  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  la  Kaute  in  the  march 
of  Wales  to  the  said  county  of  Gloucester  adjacent,  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  the  said  Walter's  death,  together  with  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  etc.  that  the  said  Walter  held 
the  premises  of  the  right  and  heritage  of  the  said  Margaret,  and  that 
the  same  are  held  in  chief  by  homage  and  fealty  ;  and  the  king  has 
taken  her  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.     [See  above.] 

Membrane  26. 

To  John  Bataille  escheator  in  Essex  and  Hertfordshire,  Like 
order,  mutatis  mntandis,  in  regard  to  the  manors  of  Dovecourt  with 
Herewych,  Great  Chesterford  and  Rumford  co.  Essex  and  of  Weston 
CO.  Hertford,  and  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
etc.  that  the  said  Walter  held  the  same  as  of  the  right  and  heritage 
of  the  said  Margaret,  and  that  they  are  held  in  chief  as  parcel  of  the 
earldom  of  Norfiolk.  By  p.s.  {the  same  writ). 

To  [Thomas]  Cans  of  Hokham  csclieator  in  Norffolk.  Order  to 
remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  third  part 
of  the  manor  of  Lodden  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  said  Walter's 


4G  EDWARD   III. 


377 


1372.  Mttnbrattc  2(i — cont. 

death,  delivering  to  tlie  said  Margaret  any  issues  tliereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  ete.  that  the  said  Walter  held  the  same  of 
the  said  Margaret's  dower  after  the  death  of  John  de  Segrave  some- 
time her  husband,  and  that  it  is  held  in  chief. 

April  20.  To  Thomas  Sewale  eseheator  in  Bedfordsliire.  Order  to  do 
Westminster,  that  w  hicl\  pertains  to  his  office  in  riigard  to  the  mancjr  of  Everton, 
certifying  uncrer  his  seal  in  chancery  what  he  siuill  do  in  the  matter  ; 
as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  by  the  eseheator  taken  of  his  office,  that 
in  the  30th  year  of  the  reign  John  Morvce  knight  thereof  enfeoffed 
John  Colyn  vicar  of  Everton  and  others  to  the  use  of  William  de  Weston 
master  of  the  house  of  8t.  Leonard  Bedeford  and  of  the  brethren, 
that  thereuj)on  the  said  master  with  the  assent  of  the  brethren  made 
an  agreement  with  'I'homas  de  Dale  knight,  so  that  the  said  Thomas 
took  an  estate  and  feoffment  in  fee  simple  in  the  said  manor  which  is 
worth  20^.  a  year,  under  a  condition  that  he  should  appropriate  to  the 
said  house  one  church  of  equal  value,  that  thereupon  in  name  of 
security  for  such  appropriation  the  said  Thomas  granted  to  the  said 
master  and  brethren  a  yearly  rent  of  201.  to  be  taken  of  the  said  manor 
until  some  church  of  the  value  aforesaid  should  be  appropriated  to 
them,  and  that  the  said  master  and  brethren  arc  taking  that  rent  at 
Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions. 


April  4.  To  Roger  Lascels  eseheator  in  Yorkshire.     Orvler  not  to  meddle 

Westminster,  further  with  14/.  10.9.  of  rent  arising  from  divers  lands  in  Tykhill, 
Bagle,  Frythebek,  Odesthorp,  Lewelle,  Langold,  Twayte,  Gildanwelle, 
Wellandwelle,  Wodesete,  Dynyngton  and  Stone  and  with  certain  lands 
and  rents  in  Donyngton,  Anstan,  Kyveton  and  Bramlay  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Walter  de  Mauny  knight,  delivering 
to  Margaret  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  eseheator,  that  the  said  Walter  at  his 
death  held  no  lands  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  in  right 
of  the  said  Margaret  held  the  said  rent  of  the  king  as  of  the  castle  and 
honour  of  Tykhill  by  fealty  and  the  service  of  one  sore  sparrowhawk 
a  year,  and  the  residue  of  the  premises  of  others  than  the  king  ;  and 
the  king  has  taken  the  fealty  of  the  said  Margaret. 

April  23.  To  Roger  La.scels  eseheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  to  deliver  to  William 
Westminster,  de  Bardolf,  son  and  heir  of  Elizabeth  daughter  and  heir  of  Roger 
Dammory  whose  lands  were  taken  into  the  late  king's  hand  by  reason 
of  the  quarrel  of  Thomas  sometime  earl  of  Lancastre  to  prosecute 
Hugh  le  Despenser  the  younger  and  Hugh  le  Despenser  the  elder, 
a  fourth  part  of  the  advowson  of  Eskyrk  which  Isabel  Lascels  {-sic) 
lately  held  in  dower  of  the  heritage  of  Joan  one  of  the  daughters 
and  heirs  of  Roger  Lascels  (sic)  with  reversion  after  Isabel's  death 
to  the  said  Roger  Dammory  and  his  heirs,  if  the  same  is  in  the  king's 
hand  by  reason  of  the  said  quarrel  and  for  no  other  cause ;  as  in  the 
parliament  assembled  at  Westminster  in  the  first  year  of  the  reign 
it  was  by  the  king,  the  prelates,  earls,  barons,  lords  and  commons 
of  the  realm  agreed  that  all  who  in  the  late  king's  time  were  of  the 
quarrel  of  the  said  then  earl  should  have  again  their  lands,  as  well 
such  as  they  had  in  demesne  as  in  reversion,  with  the  liberties,  fees, 
bailiwicks,  offices,  advowsons  etc.  thereto  belonging  in  England, 
Wales  and  Ireland  which  by  reason  thereof  were  taken  and  seized 


378  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1372.  Meinfmme  26 — cord. 

as  forfeit  into  the  late  king's  liand,  into  whoso  hands  soever  the  same 
should  have  come,  whether  into  the  hands  of  children  within  ago 
or  of  others  by  feoffment  or  otherwise,  and  the  issues  and  arrears 
of  farms  for  which  answer  was  not  made  to  the  said  king,  for  that 
the  said  quarrel  was  by  the  king  and  all  the  parliament  judged  to  be 
good  and  just,  and  the  judgments  rendered  against  those  who  were  of 
that  (juarrel  were  utterly  annulled  ;  and  now  on  behalf  of  the  said 
William  prayer  is  made  to  the  king  for  livery  of  the  said  fourth  part 
which  among  other  lands  of  the  said  Roger  was  by  reason  of  the  said 
quarrel  seized  into  the  late  king's  hand,  and  for  that  cause  is  yet 
in  the  king's  hand,  altliough  the  said  Roger's  lands  so  seized  as  afore- 
said were  by  virtue  of  the  said  agreement  delivered  to  the  said  Elizabeth, 
who  was  wife  of  the  said  Roger  (sic)  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will  that 
the  agreement  then  made  shall  be  observed  in  all  respects. 

April  30.  To  John  Knyvet  and  Thomas  de  Ingelby  justices  appointed  to  hold 
Westminster,  pleas  before  the  king.  Order  by  writ  of  nisi  prius  to  cause  the 
inquisition  whereupon  John  atte  Moor  of  Dikelburgh,  John  Alisaundre 
of  Tholveton,  Thomas  Alisaundre  of  Dikelburgh,  Joan  wife  of  Robert 
son  of  William  Erpyn  of  Dicleburgh,  William  Smyth  of  Gyssynges, 
John  Haukyn  of  Thirston  '  taillour,'  Stephen  Trippok  of  Dikelburgh 
and  John  his  brother,  AVilliam  Leverich  of  Dikelburgh,  John  Baret 
of  Dikelburgh,  John  atte  Brigge  of  Dikelburgh,  Thomas  Chaundeler  of 
Dikelburgh,  John  Throwe  of  Dikelburgh,  Thomas  de  Newewright 
of  Dikelburgh,  Richard  Bau  of  Dikelburgh,  Thomas  Hendry  of  Dikel- 
burgh, William  Broun  and  Hugh  Milner  of  Dikelburgh  hav^e  put 
themselves,  being  indicted  for  assenting  and  procuring  Robert  son 
of  William  Erpyn  of  Dikelburgh  and  Robert  son  of  Robert  Houlot 
of  Fornesete  outlawed  for  the  death  of  Walter  son  of  Robert  de 
Wortham  chaplain,  to  be  taken  before  them  the  said  justices  or  one 
of  them;  also  the  inquisition  whereupon  John  Knot  'taillour'  has 
put  liimself,  being  indicted  for  consenting  to  the  death  of  Walter 
de  Wortham  chaplain,  who  was  feloniously  slain  by  Robert  Bacoun 
of  Dikelburgh  and  Nicholas  his  son  and  Robert  son  of  Robert  Houlot, 
and  likewise  for  that  he  comforted  and  rode  with  the  said  Robert 
Bacoun. 

April  30.         To    the   sheriff    of   Lancastre.      Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be 
Westminster,  elected  instead  of  Edmund  Frere  of  Lancastre,  who  is  insufficiently 
qualified. 

May  9.  To  Richard  Nor\dch  escheator  in  Kent.     Order  to  take  the  fealty 

Westminster,  of  John  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Orlaston  tenant  in  chief  according 
to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  cause  him  to  have  seisin 
of  his  said  father's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  ; 
as  the  said  John  the  son  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator, 
and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage.  By  p.s.  [29168.] 

May  10.  To  Thomas    de    Navenby  escheator   in   Lincolnshire.      Order   to 

Westminster,  cause  John  son  and  heir  of  Richard  de  Billesby,  tenant  in  chief  by 
knight  service,  to  have  seisin  of  his  said  father's  lands  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  his  death  ;  as  ths  said  John  son  of  Richard  has 
proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his 
homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [29171. J 


46  EDWARD  III. 


370 


1372.  Membrane  26 — cont. 

May  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  Warrewyk.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  bo  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  W'ilhciin  Coppethorn,  who  is  sick  and  aged. 

April  4.  To  Edmund  de  Burton  escheator  in  Salop.     Order  to  deliver  to 

Westrainstor.  Margaret  late  the  wife  of  Walter  de  Mauny  knight  the  manor  of 
Stottesdon  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  her  said  husl^and's  dcuxth, 
together  with  tlie  issues  tliercof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Walter  at  his  death 
iield  no  lands  in  tiiat  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but 
held  the  said  manor  in  chief  in  her  right,  and  the  king  has  taken  her 
homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [29096.] 


Membrane  25. 

May  9.  To  Thomas  de  Navenby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.     Order  to  remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of  Eresby, 
Toynton,  Skydbrok  with  Saltfiethaven,  Thetilthorp,  Cokcryngton, 
Langton,  Whitelialparke,  Scryvelby,  Wispyngton,  Foletby,  Westerkele 
and  iStykford  and  with  divers  lands  in  Spillesby,  Ratheby,  Hundelby, 
Partenay,  Askeby,  Kirkeby,  Burgh,  Biscopthorp,  Toft,  Wylughby, 
Horncastre,  Ulceby,  Malberthorp  and  Hagworthyngham,  delivering 
up  any  issues  thereof  taken  since  the  death  of  John  de  Wylughby 
knight  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  the  said  John  held  the  premises  for  life  of  the  gift  of  William  la 
Zouche  of  Haryngworth,  William  de  Huntyngfcld  knights,  Adam  de 
Lymbergh  canon  of  Lincoln  and  others,  with  remainder  to  Robert 
de  Wylughby  knight  son  of  the  said  John,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  and 
that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

To  Thomas  Caus  of  Hokham  escheator  in  Xorflfolk.  Like  order 
in  regard  to  the  manors  of  Eggefeld  and  Walcote,  which  the  said  John 
held  for  life  of  the  gift  of  William  la  Zouche  and  WilUam  de  Huntynfeld 
knights,  Henry  Malboys  parson  of  Wilughby  and  others,  with  remainder 
as  above. 

To  the  same.  Like  order  in  regard  to  the  manors  of  Whetacre  and 
Chadgrave,  which  the  said  John  held  for  life  of  the  gift  of  William 
la  Zouche  and  William  de  Huntyngfcld  knights  and  others,  with 
remainder  to  William  de  Wylughby  his  son  for  life. 

To  Thomas  de  Navenby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Like  order  in 
regard  to  the  manors  of  Wylughby  and  Orreby  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
etc.  that  the  said  John  held  those  manors  for  life  to  him  and  his  assigns 
of  the  gift  of  Wilham  la  Souche  of  Haryngworth,  William  de  Huntyngfcld 
knights,  Adam  de  Lymbergh  canon  of  Lincoln  and  others,  with 
remainder  for  four  years  to  his  executors  or  assigns  or  to  whomsoever 
he  would  assign  the  same. 

To  John  Carnels  escheator  in  Norhamptonshiro.  Order  to  deliver 
to  Robertson  of  John  de  Wylughby  knight  and  to  Margery  his  wife 
the  manor  of  Lilleford  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  said  John's 
death,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John  at  his  death 
held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but 
held  the  said  manor  for  life  of  the  gift  of  William  de  Huntyngfcld 


380  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  25 — corit. 

kniglit,  William  dv  Skypwyth  knight,  William  do  BclosLy  knight, 
Thomas  de  Eryskonay  parson  of  VVylughby  and  Adam  dc  Lymbeigli 
canon  of  Lincoln,  with  remainder  to  the  said  Robert  and  Margery 
and  to  the  heirs  of  the  said  Robert,  and  that  the  same  is  held  of  the 
king  by  knight  service  as  of  the  lionour  of  Huntyngdon  ;  and  the 
king  has  taken  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  Robert. 

May  28.  To  Robert  de  Assheton  justiciary  of  Ireland.     Whereas  by  the  com- 

Wostininster.  ])laint  of  his  lieges  of  Ireland  the  king  lias  learned  that  William 
de  Wyndesore  late  his  lieutenant  in  Ireland,  at  the  first  parliament 
holden  at  Dublin  after  his  coming  to  Ireland,  craved  of  the  said  lieges 
divers  customs  and  charges  never  heretofore  granted  by  them,  namely, 
3s-."  of  every  last  of  herring,  12^/.  of  every  hundred  of  great  fish,  Gd. 
of  everj^  hundred  of  small  fish,  4*.  of  every  tun  of  salmon,  2s.  of  every 
pipe  of  salmon,  6.v.  8^?.  of  every  tun  of  wine,  35.  M.  of  every  pipe  of  wine, 
(3(1.  of  every  pound  of  flesh  of  oxen,  swine  and  sheep,  Gs.  Sd.  of  every  wey  of 
wheat,  5s.  of  every  wey  of  malt,  beans,  peas,  barley,  rye  and  '  hastinel,'* 
65.  Sd.  of  every  wey  of  salt,  and  dd.  of  every  pound  of  fells  of  horses, 
harts  and  plough  horses,  of  "  pilfell,'  woollen  and  linen  cloth,  faldings  and 
other  merchandise  ;  and  that  although  the  greater  part  of  the  prelates, 
lords  and  other  the  king's  lieges  being  in  the  said  parliament  expressly 
gainsaid  the  grant,  levying  and  payment  thereof,  and  certain  prelates 
being  of  the  counsel  and  assent  of  the  said  heutenant  and  other 
individual  persons  of  the  lesser  part  being  in  the  said  parliament 
came  together  in  a  certain  chamber  and  without  the  assent  of 
the  greater  part  granted  the  custom  and  charges  aforesaid  for 
three  years  and  no  longer,  the  said  lieutenant  and  others  of  his 
council  caused  it  to  be  enrolled  and  registered  upon  the  rolls 
of  the  chancery  of  Ireland  that-  those  customs  and  charges  were  by 
all  present  in  the  said  parliament  granted  to  be  taken  for  all  time, 
to  the  impoverishment  of  the  king's  lieges,  wherefore  they  have  prayed 
for  remedy  ;  and  whereas  the  king  would  not  that  they  be  unlawfully 
chai'ged  :  order  to  cause  all  and  singular  the  premises  to  be  before 
the  prelates,  lords  and  commons  of  parliament  read  and  declared 
in  the  parliament  next  to  be  holden  in  Ireland  in  the  manner  and 
form  wherein  they  were  done,  and  if  by  declaration  and  examination 
thereof  assured  that  the  premises  are  true,  by  assent  of  that  parliament 
to  cause  the  enrolment  and  record  of  the  said  grant  to  be  cancelled, 
and  the  levy  and  demand  of  the  said  custom  and  charges  by  reason 
of  that  grant  after  the  said  three  years  to  be  altogether  stayed. 

[Fcedera.] 

The  hke,  mutatis   mutandis,  to   the   justiciary  of   Ireland   for  the 
time  being. 

[Ibid.] 

May  22.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  of  Ireland.  Order 
Westminster,  to  stay  their  demand  made  by  exchequer  summons  upon  the  king's 
lieges  of  Ireland  for  the  scutage  current  in  Ireland  in  respect  of  their 
lands  which  are  in  the  hands  of  the  Irish  the  king's  enemies,  acquitting 
them  of  the  said  scutage  upon  lands  which  ai%  so  out  of  their  hands 
all  the  time  the  same  shall  be  occupied  by  the  king's  enemies,  and  as  it 
is  lawfully  current  in  Ireland  charging  them  therewith  upon  the 
lands  which  are  in  their  hands  ;  as  on  behalf  of  his  said  lieges  the 

*  See  above  p.  267. 


40  EDWARD    III. 


381 


1372.  Membrane  25 — co7it. 

king  has  loarnod  that,  althougli  groat  part  of  Ireland  which  was  some- 
tinie  in  their  hands,  and  for  which  tlicy  used  to  jmy  the  scutago 
current  in  Ireland,  is  now  by  the  Irish  rebels  wasted  and  by  them 
occupied,  so  that  the  said  lieges  aie  not  1)ound  to  pay  towards  the  said 
scutage  save  upon  the  lands  that  ate  in  their  own  hands,  tlw;  treasurer  and 
the  barons  arc  striving  to  compel  them  to  y)ay  the  same  to  the  king 
as  well  for  lands  by  the  said  enemies  taken  and  kept  out  of  their 
hands  as  for  the  lands  which  are  in  their  own  haiids,  wherefore  they 
have  prayed  for  remedy  ;  and  the  king  would  not  that  they  be  unduly 
charged. 

[Ibid.] 

Miles  de  Courcy  has  the  like  writ,  mutatis  mutandis. 

[Ibid.] 

June  1.  To  the  sheriff  of  Huntingdon.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  bo 

Westminster,  elected  instead  of  Robert  Waryn,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified  as 
the  king  has  learned  by  credible  \\itness,  wherefore  he  has  removed 
him. 

June  3.  To  William  de  Latymer  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden 

Westminster,  of  the  Cinque  Ports.  Order  to  survey  the  defects  of  the  said  castle 
and  to  cause  them  to  be  repaired  irom  time  to  time  as  need  be  by  view 
and  testimony  of  the  master  of  the  Domus  Dei  Dovorre  and  of  the 
prior  of  St.  Martin  Dovorre  or  one  of  them,  causing  wood  for  making 
bows  and  engines,  barrels  for  scouring  armour,  coffers  for  keeping 
the  books  and  other  ornaments  of  the  castle  church,  and  other  needful 
things  to  be  bought  and  purveyed  by  their  view  and  testimony  ;  as 
the  king  has  learned  that  there  are  great  number  of  defects  as  well 
in  the  houses,  walls,  turrets,  church,  chapel,  belfry,  hall  and  other 
buildings  of  the  said  castle,  the  glazed  windows  and  the  doors  thereof, 
as  in  the  books,  vestments  and  other  ornaments  and  furniture  of 
the  said  church  and  chapel,  and  in  the  arms  and  armour,  bows, 
arrows,  engines,  artillery  and  other  needful  things  purveyed  for 
furnishing  the  said  castle. 

June  1.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  discharge 

Westminster.  James  le  Botiller  earl  of  Ormond  of  the  wardship  of  the  lands  which 
were  of  Thomas  de  Rokeby  the  '  inicle  '  late  justiciary  of  Ireland  in 
the  county  {i)i  le  count y  infra  com)  of  Tipcrary  in  Ireland  and  by 
his  death  were  for  particular  causes  taken  into  the  king's  hand, 
discharging  and  ac([uitting  the  said  earl  at  the  exchequer  of  the  farm 
and  issues  thereof  from  this  date  ;  as  on  12  June  in  the  32nd  year  of 
his  reign  the  king  by  letters  patent  committed  that  wardship  to 
the  said  earl  to  hold  during  the  king's  pleasure,  rendering  to  the 
king  the  true  value  of  the  lands  a  year  and  as  much  as  any  other 
would  give  for  them ;  and  now  the  earl  has  prayed  to  be  thereof 
discharged.  Proviso  that  he  shall  content  the  king  for  the  value  of 
the  said  lands  from  12  June  aforesaid  to  this  date. 


June  3.  To  William  Auncell  escheator  in  Oxfordshire.     Order  to  take  the 

Westminster,  fealt}'^  of  Margaret  wife  of  Thomas  de  Williamescote  knight  accorchng 

to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  remove  the  king's   hand 

and  not  meddle  further  \\ith  the  manors  of  Xcthercud\7igton,  Asterlo 

and    Williamescote    and    the    advowsons    of    Net  hercudyngton    and 


382 


CALENDAR  OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  25 — cont. 

Asterle  taken  into  tlie  king's  hand  by  her  said  husband's  death, 
delivering  to  her  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  lias 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Thomas 
at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne 
as  of  fee,  but  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  held  the  premises 
jointly  with  the  said  Margaret,  and  that  the  manor  and  advowson 
of  Nethercu{l\^lgton  are  held  by  knight  service  of  the  earl  of  March, 
a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  the  residue  of  the  premises  of  others 
than  the  king. 

June  7.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  to  cause  John  Maryan  merchant 

Westminster,  of  Luea  to  be  brought  without  delay  to  the  Flete  prison  and  delivered 
to  the  A\arden  thereof  ;  as  the  king  is  informed  that  the  said  merchant, 
who  is  bound  to  him  in  divers  sums  of  money,  is  arrested  at  the  suit 
of  certain  men  of  the  city  of  London  and  detained  in  the  sheriffs' 
custody,  and  it  is  the  king's  will  that  according  to  his  prerogative 
his  debts  shall  have  preference  over  all  other.  The  king  has  com- 
manded the  A\arden  to  receive  the  said  John  from  them  and  to  keep 
him  in  safe  custody  in  the  said  prison  until  further  order.     By  K. 

June  8.  To    Thomas    de    Navenby    escheator    in    Lincolnshire.     Order    to 

Westminster,  take  of  Katheiine  who  was  wife  of  Hugh  de  Swynford  knight  tenant 
in  chief  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence, 
and  to  assign  her  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  his  death,  sending  the  assignment  to  be  enrolled 
in  chancery. 

Membrane  24. 

May  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Leycester.     Order  to  repair  in  person  to  the  common 

Westminster,  pasture  in  Boresworth  and  by  the  oath  of  true  men  of  his  baihwick 
to  make  inquisition,  and  if  thereby  he  shall  find  that  the  said  pasture 
has  been  by  Roger  de  Foxton  parson  of  Boresworth  a  second  time 
unlawfully  overcharged  after  the  first  measurement,  to  make  answer 
at  the  exchequer  for  the  cattle  thereupon  put  after  the  said  measure- 
ment over  and  above  the  due  number,  or  for  the  price  thereof,  removing 
such  overcharge  ;  as  Richard  Beller  has  shewn  the  king  that  whereas 
he  lately  brought  to  the  sheriff  the  king's  writ  concerning  the  measure- 
ment of  the  said  pasture,  which  the  said  parson  overcharged,  and 
the  sheriff  measured  the  same  according  to  the  custom  of  England, 
the  said  parson  has  since  that  measurement  a  second  time  unlawfully 
overcharged  the  same  contrary  to  the  statute. 


May  28.  To  the  collectors  of  the  petty  custom  in  the  port  of  Gippewic.     Order 

Westminster,  to  view  certain  letters  of  cocket  which  John  Mormaunt  of  Sudbury 
CO.  Suffolk,  John  Coppemaine  and  William  Hound  merchants  have 
with  them  as  they  aver,  and  if  assured  that  certain  cloths  and  divers 
other  customable  merchandise  in  a  ship  called  the  '  Godwyle '  of 
Seryse,  whereof  the  said  William  is  master,  were  truly  cocketed  and 
the  custom  thereupon  paid,  to  cause  the  said  ship  and  the  cloths 
and  merchandise  therein  to  be  dearrested,  suffering  the  said  merchants 
without  let  to  pass  thercAiith  whither  they  will,  and  certifying  in 
chancery  under  their  seals  the  quantity  and  value  of  the  said  cloths 
and  merchandise,  and  all  their  action  in  the  matter  ;  as  on  behalf 
of  the  said  merchants  the  king  has  learned  that  they  laded  the  said 


46  EDWARD  TTT.  383 


1372.  Membrane  24 — conf. 

sliip  tliorcwith  in  the  port  of  Otowoll  within  tlio  hounds  of  the  port 
of  Ciii)pt'\vic  to  take  tlic  same  to  foreign  ])arts,  and  that  they  truly 
paid  the  custom  duo  upon  the  said  cloths  and  otlier  merchandise 
whatsoever  as  by  the  said  letters  of  eocket  may  appear,  hut  that  the 
said  collectors'  deputies  in  the  port  of  Orewell,  pretending  that  divers 
cloths  and  other  merchandise  not  cocketed  nor  customed  were  put 
in  the  said  ship  to  l)e  taken  to  foreign  parts,  have  for  tliat  cause  arrested 
the  said  ship,  cloths  and  merchandise  and  are  detaining  them  under 
arrest,  wherefore  they  have  prayed  for  remedy  ;  and  the  said  Jolm 
appealing  in  person  in  chancery  has  mainpemed  under  a  pain  of  100 
marks  to  be  levied  to  tlie  king's  use  in  case  it  may  hereafter  be  found 
that  any  cloths  or  other  merchandise  not  cocketed  and  customed 
were  therein  put  to  be  taken  to  foreign  parts. 

May  26.  To  Thomas  Caus  of  Hokham  escheator  in  Norffolk.     Order  to  remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Ryston 
which  was  of  William  de  Kerdeston  knight  deceased  ;  as  lately  the 
king  commanded  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  to  search 
the  rolls  and  memoranda  of  the  exchequer  and  to  certify  in  chancery 
what  tliey  should  find  in  regard  to  the  taking  of  the  said  manor  into  the 
king's  hand,  and  they  certified  that  search  liaving  been  made  it  is 
found  in  the  memoranda  of  the  31st  (sic)  year  of  the  reign  among  the 
records  of  Michaelmas  term,  in  a  process  affecting  William  Clere 
and  Walter  Clere,  that  in  Michaelmas  term  at  the  end  of  the  40th 
year  William  son  and  heir  of  Robert  Clere  acknowledged  that  he 
was  executor  of  his  said  father's  will,  that  his  father  held  the  said 
manor,  which  after  deducting  reprises  is  worth  251.  a  year,  by  demise 
of  William  de  Kerdeston  knight  for  a  term  of  14  years  without  rendering 
aught,  that  at  his  father's  death,  who  died  on  Wednesday  after 
Whitsuntide  in  the  34th  j^ear  of  the  reign,  seven  years  of  that  term 
were  expired  and  seven  yet  to  come,  and  that  lie  the  said  son  occupied 
the  same  after  his  father's  death,  and  for  that  the  said  William  son 
of  Robert  acknowledged  that  for  seven  years  after  his  father's  death 
he  had  and  occupied  the  said  manor,  \\herein  his  father  had  no  estate 
save  for  a  term  of  years,  and  which  ought  to  be  adjudged  his  chattel 
and  not  his  fee  or  freehold,  acknowledging  the  administration  of  his 
father's  goods  and  chattels,  it  is  found  that  judgment  was  given  for 
taking  the  said  manor  into  the  king's  hand  out  of  the  liand  of  the 
said  William  son  of  Robert,  ans\^'er  being  made  to  the  king  for  the 
profits  thereof  arising  during  the  aforesaid  term  in  part  paj^ment 
of  1,000  marks  A\hich  the  said  Robert  bequeathed  and  assigned  to 
the  king  in  recompense  for  the  money  he  had  and  took  of  the  king's 
money  and  converted  to  his  o^^■n  use  at  the  time  that  he  was  keeper 
of  the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric  of  Norwich  in  Xorffolk  and  Suffolk, 
which  was  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  contempt  committed 
by  William  Bateman  late  bishop  and  for  various  other  causes,  and 
in  recompense  for  the  king's  moneys  arising  from  wool  granted  to  the 
king  in  Norffolk  and  Suffolk  when  the  said  Robert  was  collector  and 
receiver  of  the  said  wool  ;  and  now  William  de  Kerdeston,  son  and 
heir  of  William  de  Kerdeston,  has  petitioned  the  king  for  livery  of  the 
said  manor  as  his  right  and  heritage  which  as  the  chattel  of  Robert 
Clere  was  taken  into  the  king's  hand  for  his  debts,  as  it  is  found  by 
inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  John  de  Rokewode 
late  escheator,  that  William  de  Kerdeston  at  liis  deatli  held  the  same 
in  liis  demesne  as  of  fee  of  others  than  the  king,  that  he  the  said  William 


384  CALENDAR    OF  OLOSE   ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  24 — cont. 

liis  son  is  his  next  heir,  and  that  Ww.  said  term  of  14  yoars  is  long 
{■xi)ired  ;  antl  the  king  In-  « lit  ordered  tlu;  slieriff  of  Norffolk  to  give 
notice  to  Jolm  Mohun  of  Dunsterre  and  Joan  his  wife,  to  whicli  Joan 
th(^  king  for  a  set  yearly  farm  committed  the  keeping  of  the  said  manor 
Fo  long  as  it  should  remain  in  his  hand,  to  he  in  chancery  in  the  quinzaine 
•  of  Easter  last  to  shew  cause  wherefore  such  livery  should  not  be  given, 

and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court  sliould  determine,  and 
the  sheriff  returned  that  he  gave  them  notice  accordingly  ;  at  which 
day  they  came  not,  A\herefoie  it  was  determined  that  the  said  William 
son  of  William  should  be  fully  restored  to  the  said  manor  ;  and  it  is 
found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  same  is  held 
of  others  than  the  king. 

May  28.  To  Williani  de  Latymer  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden 

Westminster,  of  the  Cin(jue  Ports,  or  to  his  lieutenant.  Order  to  cause  as  many 
armed  men,  archers  and  seamen  of  the  liberty  of  the  said  ports  to  be 
chosen  and  appointed  as  shall  be  sufficient  for  maiming  the  ships  which, 
for  certain  liberties  and  immunities  to  tliem  granted  by  the  king's  fore- 
fathers, the  barons  thereof  are  bound  to  find  the  king,  and  which  the 
king  lately  commanded  the  said  constable  and  lieutenant  to  appoint,  and 
to  put  them  on  board  to  sail  at  the  king's  wages  at  sea  for  the  protection 
of  the  goods  and  chattels  of  merchants  passing  by  sea,  according  to 
the  fuller  instructions  of  the  said  constable,  certifying  in  chancery  under 
seal  the  number  of  the  men  so  arrayed. 

May  28.  To  the  master  of  the  hospital  of  Domus  Dei  Dovorre.     Order  to  be 

Westminster,  in  person  at  the  exchequer  on  the  quinzaine  of  Trinity  next,  and  to 
bear  witness  upon  the  account  of  the  late  constable  of  Dovorre  castle 
at  the  exchequer  concerning  all  victuals  ^\■hich  are  of  the  king's  stock 
within  the  said  castle,  and  all  costs  and  expenses  thereupon  incurred 
by  the  said  constable  and  his  lieutenant  and  by  the  said  master  super- 
vised and  controlled  according  to  the  king's  late  letters  patent 
appointing  him  so  to  do. 

May  28.  To  William  de  Tidecombe  receiver  of  Dovorre  castle.      Order  of 

Westminster,  the  issues  of  the  said  castle  to  pay,  at  the  command  of  Wilham  de 
Latymere  constable  of  the  said  castle  and  warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports 
to  be  to  him  addressed,  for  the  wages  of  the  armed  men,  archers  and 
seamen  sailing  for  protection  of  the  goods  and  chattels  of  merchants 
passing  by  sea  ;  as  the  king  has  commanded  the  said  constable  or 
his  lieutenant  to  cause  as  many  such  men  of  the  liberty  of  the 
Cinque  Ports  to  be  chosen  and  appointed  as  shall  be  sufficient 
etc.  (as  above). 

May  30.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London  and  the  river 

Westminster.  Thames.  Order  to  suffer  Roger  de  Bello  Campo  captain  of  Calais 
by  himself  and  his  servants  in  that  port  freely  to  lade  in  ships  and 
without  let  to  carry  to  Calais  cloths,  books,  raiment,  vessels  and 
other  his  furniture  (hernesia)  whatsoever  needful  for  his  household 
without  demanding  custom  to  the  king's  use,  any  previous  command 
to  them  addressed  to  the  contrary  notuithstancUng. 

May  30.  To  John  de  Clynton.     Order  mpon  his  allegiance,  as  he  loves  the 

Westminster,  king  and  his  honour  and  desires  the  safety  and  defence  of  the  realm, 

on  sight  of  these  presents  to  leave  over  all  else  and  draw  to  his  manor 


46   EDWAIII)    rri.  385 


1;J7«2.  Membrane  '24t — cord. 

of  Folkestone  co.  Kont,  tluMv  aivd  elscwluMci  in  those  i)arts  continually 
to  abide  with  all  his  household  and  power  wliere  most  danger  shall 
threaten  from  inroads  of  the  enemy,  so  that  they  be  ready  with  other 
lords  and  the  king's  lieges,  whom  for  that  cause  the  king  has  com- 
manded to  abide  u])on  their  lands  in  those  parts,  to  march  with  a 
strong  hand  against  his  enemies,  if  any  shall  presume  there  to  invade 
the  realm,  and  with  Gods  help  to  defeat  their  malice  and  insolence  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  that  his  enemies  of  France  are  now  at  sea  with 
shijjs,  barges  and  galleys,  making  ready  to  invade  and  destroy  the 
realm  to  tlie  utmost  of  their  power,  and  the  king  so  far  as  he  may 
would  resist  their  malice.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Feeder  a.] 

Juno  4.  To   the   mayor  and   bailiffs   of   Dertemuth.     Order,   when   assured 

Westminster,  that  the  goods  hereinafter  mentioned  pertain  toGildolfus  Josep  burgess 
of  Bruges  in  Flanders,  on  sight  of  these  presents  without  difficulty 
or  delay  to  cause  140  quintals  of  iron  which  were  taken  in  a  ship 
of  Lubek  called  the  '  Oodberaet,'  John  Gulsand  master,  to  be  delivered 
and  fully  restored  by  indenture  to  Hugh  Cas  servant  of  the  said  burgess, 
in  his  master's  name,  so  that  no  loud  complaint  come  a  second  time  to 
the  king's  ears ;  as  the  burgomasters,  echevins  and  consuls  of  Bruges 
by  their  letters  patent  sealed  with  the  common  seal  of  the  town  have 
shewn  the  king  that  the  men  of  Dertemuth  have  now  newly  taken 
the  said  ship  in  hostile  fashion  at  sea  off  Eysant  by  Brittany  laden 
with  iron  and  other  merchandise,  and  have  brought  the  same  with 
them  to  Dertemuth  and  the  goods  and  property  therein,  and  that 
the  said  burgess  caused  the  iron  aforesaid  to  be  therein  put  in  order 
to  be  taken  from  Spain  to  the  port  of  SwjTine  in  Flanders,  wherefore 
they  have  made  instant  prayer  to  the  king  to  cause  restitution  to 
be  made  to  the  said  Hugh,  the  bearer  of  these  presents,  according  to 
the  treat}'  last  made  between  the  king  and  the  Flemings.  By  C. 

Membrane  23. 

June  10.  To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.  Order  to  proceed  in  a  plea  pending 
Westminster,  before  them  concerning  the  presentation  to  the  church  of  St.  Stephen 
Exeter,  further  doing  as  by  the  law  and  custom  of  England 
ought  to  be  done  in  the  matter,  the  king's  confirmation  of  the  estate 
and  possession  therein  of  John  Carbonell  parson  of  the  said  church 
notwithstanding  ;  as  on  22  May  last  the  king  made  the  confirmation 
aforesaid,  willing  to  make  provision  for  the  security  of  the  said  John, 
and  that  he  should  not  in  time  to  come  by  the  king  or  his  heirs  be 
impeached,  troubled  or  grieved  touching  the  possession'  thereof  by 
reason  of  any  right  or  title  vesting  in  them,  or  which  may  hereafter 
vest  in  them  ;  but  for  that  the  presentation  to  the  said  church  pertains 
to  the  chancellor  by  reason  of  his  office,  and  the  chancellor  has  presented 
thereto,  whereof  the  said  plea  is  pending,  it  is  the  king's  will  that  the 
presentation  so  made  shall  duly  take  effect. 

June  8.  To  John  Knyvet  and  Thomas  de  Tngelby  justices  appointed  to 

Uestniinster.  hold  pleas  before  the  king.  Order  by  writ  of  nisi  prius  to  cause  the 
inquisition  whereupon  Robert  Wade  of  Chesterton  has  at  the  king's 
suit  put  himself  concerning  the  death  of  William  Coke  to  be  taken 
before  them  or  one  of  them,  before  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Bench, 
or  before  the  justices  of  assize. 

CB  25 


386 


CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  23 — cmU. 

June  10.         To  the  sheriff  of  Berkshire.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  John  Edmund,  who  is  dead. 

June  15.  To  Jolin  de  Cressyngham  steward  of  Lenne  Epi.scopi  of  Henry 
Westminster,  bisliop  of  Norwich.  Order,  upon  the  testimony  of  John  K(;mpe, 
WiUiam  Coll)ayn  and  W'ilUam  Horny ng  of  Essex,  to  set  free  Robert 
Billes  from  the  prison  of  the  said  town,  if  detained  for  tlie  cause  here- 
inafter mentioned  and  for  none  otlier  ;  as  lately  by  divers  writs  the 
king  ordered  the  said  steward  to  certify  in  chancery  under  his  seal 
the  cause  wherefore  the  said  Robert  was  by  him  detained  in  the  said 
prison,  and  he  certified  that  the  said  Robert  was  taken  by  Jolin  de 
Brunham  late  mayor  of  the  said  town  for  that  he  was  of  the  allegiance 
of  the  king  of  France  and  was  found  there  without  licence  or  the 
king's  safe  conduct,  and  that  he  is  yet  detained  for  that  cause  and 
for  none  other,  that  tlie  proctors  in  England  of  the  abbess  of  Caen 
said  that  he  was  their  servant,  craving  liis  deliverance,  but  that  he 
the  said  steward  dared  not  set  him  free  without  other  command 
of  the  king  ;  and  the  said  John  Kempe,  William  and  William  appearing 
in  person  in  chancery  have  witnessed  that  the  said  Robert  was  and 
is  servant  of  the  said  proctors. 

June  12.         To  the  sheriff  of  Warrewyk.      Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  William  de  Ocham,  who  is  insufficiently  quahfied. 

To  William  Latymer  keeper  of  the  king's  forest  beyond  Trent,  or 
to  his  representative  in  the  forest  of  Galtres.  Order,  if  Lawrence 
LoveU  taken  and  imprisoned  in  the  king's  prison  of  York  for  an  alleged 
trespass  of  venison  in  the  said  forest,  for  which  he  is  indicted,  shall 
find  twelve  free  and  lawful  men  of  that  bailiwick  who  shall  mainpern 
to  have  him  before  the  justices  in  eyre  for  pleas  of  the  forest  in  York- 
shire at  their  coming  to  those  parts  in  order  to  stand  to  right  con- 
cerning that  trespass,  to  deliver  him  in  bail  to  such  men,  if  reple vis- 
able  according  to  the  assize  of  the  forest,  bringing  before  the  justices 
their  names  and  this  writ. 


June  1.  To  the  same.     Like  order  in  favour  of  Wilham  Belle  of  York,  taken 

Westminster,  and  imprisoned  for  a  trespass  of  venison. 

June  20.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  cause  Nicholas  de  Pathorn 
Westminster,  to  be  set  free  from  Neugate  prison,  if  there  detained  for  the  cause 
hereinafter  mentioned  and  for  none  other  ;  as  lately  the  king  ordered 
the  sheriffs  to  replevy  the  said  Nicholas,  who  was  taken  by  Robert 
Josep  and  Richard  de  Morton  and  is  by  the  sheriffs  detained  it  w' as  said, 
unless  taken  by  special  order  of  the  king  or  the  chief  justice,  for 
manslaughter,  the  king's  forest,  or  any  other  matter  wherefore  he 
was  not  replevisable  according  to  the  custom  of  England,  or  to  signify 
the  cause  wherefore  they  would  not  or  might  not  execute  the  command 
to  them  at  another  time  addressed  ;  and  the  sheriffs  certified  that 
the  said  Nicholas  was  committed  to  the  said  prison  by  the  testimony 
of  the  said  Robert  and  Richard,  auditors  appointed  by  David  Barry 
knight  to  audit  in  London  an  account  between  him  and  the  said 
Da\ad,  for  42/.  135.  4c?.  arrears  of  his  said  account ;  and  after  in  the 
king's  court  the  said  Nicholas  prosecuted  the  said  Robert  before  the 
sheriffs  for  assaulting  him  at  London,  beating,  wounding,  evil  entreating 


46  EDWARD  m.  387 


1372.  Membrane  23 — cont. 

and  iiwpiisoning  hiiu  contrary  to  the  peace,  whereupon  the  said  Robert 
being  brought  to  answer  alleged  that  of  beating  and  wounding  he 
was  not  guilty,  and  as  to  imprisoning  said  that  the  said  Nicholas 
was  bound  to  the  said  David  in  a  greater  sum  and  accounted  for  the 
same  before  the  said  Robert  and  Richard,  and  that  duo  allowance 
being  made  by  that  account  he  reniained  in  arrear  as  aforesaid,  wliere- 
fore  they  as  his  auditors  according  to  the  statute  delivered  him  to 
the  custody  of  the  sheriffs  by  their  bill  to  be  kept  in  the  said  prison, 
to  which  the  said  Nicholas  replied  that  he  never  accounted  before 
tlie  said  Robert  and  Richard  ;  and  it  is  found  by  in<[uisition,  where- 
upon as  well  the  said  Nicholas  as  the  said  Robert  put  themselves  before 
the  sheriffs,  that  the  said  Nicholas  never  accounted  before  the  said 
auditors,  but  was  imprisoned  contrary  to  the  peace,  damages  10  marks, 
wherefore  it  was  adjudged  tliat  the  said  Nicholas  should  recover 
those  damages,  and  the  said  Robert  should  be  committed  to  prison 
until  he  should  content  him  thereof. 

June  27.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  Dovorre.  Order  to 
Westminster,  suffer  the  bishop  of  Carpentras,  the  viscount  of  Torayne  and  other 
the  pope's  envoys  lately  for  particular  causes  sent  to  the  king  in  England, 
who  are  now  returning  over  sea,  to  pass  without  let  in  that  port  with 
as  many  men  of  their  company  and  horses  as  they  brought  with  them, 
their  goods,  property,  furniture  and  letters  of  exchange,  any  ordinances 
or  commands  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding.  Proviso  that  they 
or  any  of  their  company  shall  not  take  with  them  bows  or  arrows 
save  two  or  three  bows  and  as  many  sheav^es  of  arrows,  nor  any  armour, 
gold  or  silver  in  the  lump,  in  plate  or  in  any  coined  money  over  and 
above  their  reasonable  expenses,  nor  aught  else  to  the  prejudice  of 
the   king  or  realm.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Fcedera.] 

June  23.         To  the  sheriff  of  Somerset.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Wilham  CoUes,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

July  8.  To  the  collectors  of  the  petty  custom  in  the  port  of  the  city  of  London 

Westminster,  for  the  time  being.  Order  of  the  issues  of  the  said  custom  to  pay  to 
John  Maykyn  one  of  the  king's  seamen  the  arrears  of  Qd.  a  day  since 
23  June  last,  and  henceforward  to  pay  him  that  daily  sum  for  life, 
taking  his  acquittance  for  every  payment  ;  as  on  that  date  the  king 
of  his  favour  granted  by  letters  patent  to  the  said  John  for  his  good 
service  6rf.  a  day  of  the  issues  of  the  said  custom,  to  be  taken  by  the 
hands  of  the  collectors  during  his  life  or  until  other  order  should  be 
taken  for  his  estate. 
Et  erat  patens. 

June  28.  To  Thomas  de  Nas'cnby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage  and 
16  acres  of  land  and  meadow  in  Appelby  and  Rysby  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  de  Appelby,  delivering  to  Margaret 
his  wife  axvy  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken 
at  the  king's  command  by  Walter  de  Kelby  late  escheator,  that  the 
said  John  held  the  premises  jointly  with  the  said  Margaret  of  others 
than  the  king. 


388  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  23 — cont. 

July  L  To  the  same.     Order  to  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle 

Westminster,  fiirtlier  with  the  manor  of  Ketiltliorp  uitli  apijurtonances  in  Laughton, 
Fenton  and  Xeuton,  and  the  advowson  ot  Ketilthorp  ehureh,  delivering 
to  Katherine  wife  of  Hugh  de  Swynford  knight  any  i.ssues  thereof 
taken  since  h*'r  husband'.s  death  ;  as  tlie  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  tiiattlie  said  Hugh  at  his  deatli  held  the 
premises  jointly  with  the  said  Katherine  of  others  than  the  king. 

July  7.  To  the  sheriff  of  Essex.     Order  to  cause  Richard  Scoteneye  to  have 

Westminster,  seisin  of  a  messuage,  8  acres  of  land  and  3  roods  of  pasture  in  Toppesfeld 
held  l)y  John  Gounce  of  Toppesfeld  hanged  for  felony  it  is  said  ;  a» 
the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  sheriff,  tliat  the 
premises  have  been  in  his  hand  a  year  and  a  day  and  are  yet  in  his 
liand,  that  tlie  said  John  held  that  messuage  of  the  said  Richard, 
and  that  John  VVelde  late  escheator  had  the  year  and  a  day  and  the 
waste  thereof,  and  ought  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  same. 

Membrane  22. 

June  8.  To  John  Knyvet  and  Thomas  de  Ingelby,  justices  appointed  to 

Westminster,  hold  pleas  before  the  king.  Order  by  writ  of  nisi  priu^  to  cause  an 
inquisition  which  is  to  be  taken  between  the  king  and  the  abbot  of 
Kirkestede,  Thomas  Teuclby,  John  Benet  and  Simon  de  Boston  monks 
.  his  fellows  and  Jolm  Kyng  of  Skampton  for  that  the  said  abbot  has 
not  repaired  a  bridge  called  Snytelbrigge,  that  bridges  called  Tilbryg' 
are  thrown  down  by  the  abbot's  cattle,  and  concerning  the  scouring  of 
a  dike  called  Stoppitdyk,  which  bridges  the  abbot  is  bound  to  repair  and 
maintain  and  to  scour  the  said  dike  it  is  said,  also  for  that  the  said 
Thomas,  John,  Simon  and  John  by  force  of  arms  depastured  and 
trampled  beans  and  peas  of  Thomas  de  Asthorp  of  Stretton  and  Richard 
Smyth  of  Scampton  to  the  value  of  100-'?.  lately  growing  at  Scampton, 
to  be  taken  before  them  or  one  of  them,  or  before  one  of  the  justices 
of  the  Bench  and  the  justices  of  assize. 

June  15.  To  Edmund  Cheyne  escheator  in  Somerset.  Order  to  take  the 
Westminster,  fealty  of  William  Modesley,  son  and  heir  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of 
John  Modesley  tenant  by  knight  service  of  the  heir  of  Nicholas  Seymor 
tenant  in  chief  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  according  to  the  form 
of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  deliver  to  him  the  lands  of  his  said 
mother  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  her  death  ;  as  the  said  William 
has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator. 

June  12.  To  the  collectors  and  assessors  in  the  county  of  Suthampton  of 
Westminster,  the  subsidy  last  granted  to  the  king  by  the  commons  of  England. 
Order  to  stay  altogether  the  further  assessment  and  levy  of  the  said 
subsidy  upon  the  men  of  Bentele,  releasing  any  distress  made  upon 
them  or  any  of  them  for  that  cause  ;  as  on  their  behalf  the  king  has 
learned  that  Bentele  chapel  is  parcel  of  the  parish  church  of  Farnham 
CO.  Surrey  and  not  a  parish  church  by  itself,  that  the  said  men  have 
fully  paid  the  portion  of  the  said  subsidy  falling  upon  them  \^ith 
the  parishioners  of  Farnham  as  for  a  chapel  and  parcel  of  the  said 
parish,  as  William  bishop  of  W^inchester  has  witnessed  in  chancery, 
but  that  the  collectors  and  assessors,  pretending  that  the  said  chapel 
is  a  parish  church  by  itself  as  it  is  not,  are  endeavouring  to  compel 
the  said  men  to  contribute  a  second  time  to  the  said  subsidy  vvith 
the  men  of  the  county  of  Suthampton. 


4(5   EDWAIU)    111.  389 


J 372.  Menibrane  22 — cont. 

June  IS.  To  tlu'  collectors  of  cu-^loms  in  the  port  of  (Juenesburgli.     Order, 

Westminster.  u\)o\\  the  petition  of  John  Aul)rey  citizen  of  London,  to  .suffer  him  by 
himself  or  his  servants  in  the  port  of  Queensburgh  or  Faversham 
to  lade  two  sarplers  and  one  jiocket  of  wool  in  a  certain  shij)  and 
carry  it  by  water  to  the  staple  of  Westminster  by  mainprise  of  tho 
said  John  and  of  William  \\^nour  citizen  of  London  ;  as  he  has  prayed 
licence  so  to  do,  and  he  and  the  said  William,  appearing  in  person 
in  chancery,  have  mainperned  that  he  shall  take  the  said  wool  to  the 
said  staple  and  not  elsewhere,  and  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  value 
thereof  in  case  it  shall  go  to  sea  before  being  unladed  at  the  said 
staple. 

June  18.  To  the  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Canterbury.  Strict  order,  as  they 
Westminster,  would  save  themselves  harmless,  to  cause  any  the  king's  messengers, 
of  whose  coming  to  the  king  and  council  with  letters  or  otherwise 
with  reports  from  over  sea  they  shall  have  knowledge  hereafter, 
upon  A\arning  received  to  have  with  all  speed  for  reasonable  payment 
hacknej's  to  ride  from  that  city  to  the  city  of  Rochester,  so  that  the 
king's  business  be  not  hindered  by  their  default. 

[Foedera.] 

The  like  to  the  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Rochester  concerning  hackneys 
to  ride  to  the  citv  of  London. 

[Ibid.] 

June  15.  To  Walter  Norman  and  Richard  Godfrey.  Order  to  deliver  to 
Westminster.  John  de  Tamworth  clerk  or  to  his  attorney  a  shout  of  his  by  them 
or  one  of  them  arrested  into  the  king's  hand  it  is  said,  and  all  the 
gear  thereof  as  they  arrested  the  same  ;  as  for  particular  causes 
the  king  ordered  the  said  Walter  and  Richard  to  certify  in  chancery  the 
cause  wherefore  they  arrested  the  said  shout,  and  by  what  authority, 
and  if  there  was  any  reasonable  cause  wherefore  they  ought  not  so  to 
do  likewise  to  certify  that  cause  under  their  seals  or  the  seal  of  one 
of  them  before  Thursday  next,  sending  again  that  writ  ;  and  the  said 
John  has  mainperned  before  the  chancellor  to  content  the  king  of 
the  said  shout  or  the  price  thereof,  if  by  law  it  ought  to  pertain  to 
the  king. 

July  14.  To  Thomas  Cans  of  Hokham  escheator  in  Suffolk.  Order  not  to 
Westminster,  meddle  further  Avith  a  yearly  rent  of  40  marks  to  be  taken  of  a  manor 
of  Cavendissh  called  Greyeshalle,  if  in  the  king's  hand  for  the  cause 
hereinafter  mentioned  and  for  none  other,  delivering  to  Alice  who  was 
wHg  of  Thomas  de  Grey  knight  any  issues  thereof  taken  since  the  death 
of  Roger  Grey  knight  tenant  in  chief  son  of  the  said  Thomas  ;  as 
lately  it  was  found  b}'  inquisition,  taken  at  the  kings  command  by 
John  de  Rokewode  then  escheator,  that  the  said  Roger  long  before 
his  death  enfeoffed  William  Baude  knight  the  younger,  Ralph  Walsham 
and  others  and  their  heirs  of  his  said  manor  of  Greyeshalle,  under 
a  condition  that  if  he  should  after  return  to  England,  being  then 
about  to  cross  the  sea,  he  might  again  enter  the  said  manor,  that  he 
returned  to  England  and  did  again  enter  the  same  taking  the  issues 
and  profits  all  his  life,  and  so  died  thereof  seised,  that  before  the 
feoffment  aforesaid  he  granted  to  the  said  Alice  the  said  rent  to  be 
taken  during  her  life  at  All  Saints  and  Midsummer  by  even  portions, 
and  that  the  said  manor  is  worth  nothing  over  and  above  that  rent  ; 
and  after  at  the  suit  of  the  said  Alice  praying  livery  thereof  during 


300  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  22 — cont. 

the  nonage  of  the  said  Roger's  heir,  as  by  reason  of  his  death  and 
his  said  lieir's  nonage  the  manor  is  seized  into  tlie  king's  hand,  the 
king  ordered  the  escheator  to  make  inquisition  concerning  the  premises 
and  other  the  circumstances,  and  by  inquisition  so  taken  it  is  found 
that  the  said  Roger  being  of  full  age,  of  good  memory  and  understanding 
and  out  of  prison  was  seised  of  the  said  manor  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee 
simple,  and  by  his  writing  granted  the  said  rent  to  the  said  Alice  for  life, 
that  the  said  manor  is  not  held  of  the  king  but  by  parcels  of  the  earl 
of  la  March  as  of  the  honour  of  Clare,  of  John  de  Cavendissh,  Thomas 
Cornerde  and  John  Boldesore,  service  unknown,  that  it  is  worth 
notliing  over  and  above  the  said  rent,  that  the  grant  was  made  in 
good  faith  and  not  by  collusion,  that  the  said  Alice  was  seised  of 
the  said  rent  in  the  life  time  of  the  said  Roger  two  years  and  more, 
and  continued  her  seisin  until  Michaelmas  last,  that  it  was  and  is 
in  arrear,  and  that  she  has  never  released  her  estate  therein  ;  and 
Jolm  de  Cavendissh  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Common  Bench  has 
witnessed  in  chancery  that  the  said  grant  was  made  in  good  faith, 
and  that  the  said  AUce  was  thereafter  seised  of  that  rent  all  the  life 
of  the  said  Roger,  and  also  the  king's  Serjeants  being  summoned  to 
that  end  said  nought  to  the  purpose  and  had  nought  to  say  wherefore 
she  ought  not  to  have  restitution  thereof. 

Jan.  28.  To  John  Foueher  escheator  in  Notinghamshire.  Order  to  cause  William 
Westminster,  son  and  heir  of  John  Bardolf  tenant  in  chief  to  have  seisin  of  the  messuages 
{sic)  land  and  meadow  in  Scelford  held  of  his  said  father  by  John  Bik 
of  Shelford  outlawed  for  felony  it  was  said;  as  on  20  March  in  the  42nd 
year  of  the  reign  on  the  finding  of  an  inquisition,  taken  by  John  de 
Gresley  late  sheriff  of  Notingham,  that  three  messuages,  four  bovates 
of  land  and  6  acres  of  meadow  in  Scelford  held  by  the  said  John  Bik 
had  been  in  the  king's  hand  a  year  and  a  day  and  were  then  in  his 
hand,  that  he  held  one  of  the  three  messuages  and  the  land  and  meadow 
aforesaid  of  the  said  John  Bardolf,  and  the  two  messuages  remaining 
of  the  prior  of  Shelford,  and  that  Richard  de  Heygham  had  the  year 
and  a  day  and  the  waste  thereof  and  ought  to  answer  to  the  king  for 
the  same,  the  king  by  A\iit  ordered  the  then  sheriff  to  keep  in  his 
hand  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  William,  being  a  minor  in  the 
king's  Avardship,  the  messuages  {sic),  land  and  meadow  held  of  John 
Bardolf,  and  to  cause  the  said  prior  to  have  seisin  of  the  two  messuages 
remaining  ;  and  on  15  October  in  the  45th  year  of  the  reign  the  said 
Wilham's  age  was  proved,  and  the  king  took  his  homage  and 
commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  his  said  father's  lands. 

Membrane  2\. 

June  7.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  London.     Order  to 

Westminster,  suffer  James  Jakemyn,  Nicholas  Russell,  John  Crede,  Lewis  Dandreo, 
John  de  Cotynghara  and  John  van  der  Vith'  in  that  port  to  lade  the 
wool  hereinafter  mentioned  and  take  it  to  Zeland,  Holand  or  Flanders, 
notwithstanding  the  ordinance  made  by  the  king  and  council  for 
taking  wool,  hides  and  woolfells  to  Calais  and  not  elsewhere  ;  as  lately 
by  letters  patent  to  endure  until  Whitsuntide  last  the  king  granted 
the  said  James,  Nicholas,  John  Crede  and  Lewis  licence  to  lade 
and  take  to  the  parts  aforesaid  400  sacks  of  wool,  and  the  said 
John  de  Cotyngham  and  Jolm  van  der  Vith'  licence  to  take  320  sacks, 
first  paying  for  every  sack  such  customs,  subsidies  and  other  duties  as 


4G   EDWAllU   III.  391 


1372.  Membrane  21 — cotit. 

are  paid  by  aliens  wlio  have  the  king's  licence  to  take  wool  thither; 
and  now  prayer  is  made  on  their  behalf  for  licence  to  take  over  that 
wool,  as  it  is  yet  in  the  said  port,  and  tJKsy  have  paid  the  said  customs, 
subsidies  and  duties.  Proviso  that  the  same  be  paid  before  the  wool 
is  taken  out  of  the  port,  and  that  no  other  wool  bo  taken  thither  by 
colour  of  this  eoinmand. 

The  like  to  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  upon 
Hull  in  favour  of  John  Mourhous  of  Tykhull  for '400  sacks,  John  Towon 
of  Shircburne  for  400  sacks,  William  Couk  for  200  sacks. 

Sei)t.  15.         To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull. 

VVallingfoid.    Like  licence,  mutatis  mutandis,  for  John  Mourhous  of  Tykhull  and 

John  Towon  of  Shirebourne  to  export  the  residue  of  400  sacks  each 

for  which  licence  was  given  them  as  above  ;  as  prayer  is  made  to  the 

king  shewing  that  some  of  that  wool  is  yet  in  the  said  port.* 

June  0.  To  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester.     Order  to  cause  a  piece  of  ground  in 

Westminster,  the  town  of  Gloucester  called  Seynt  Martyn  place,  containing  72  feet 
in  length  and  24  feet  in  breadth,  to  be  taken  again  into  the  king's 
hand,  and  to  be  restored  and  delivered  to  Adam  parson  of  St.  Michael 
in  that  towTi  and  to  his  successors  according  to  a  judgment  in  chancery  ; 
as  on  28  March  last  the  king  by  letters  patent  so  far  as  in  him  lies 
gave  the  said  place  to  the  burgesses  of  Gloucester  and  their  successors 
to  hold  of  the  king  and  his  heirs  by  the  services  thereof  due  and 
of  old  time  accustomed,  in  order  to  build  a  tower  upon  it  and  therein 
to  set  and  maintain  a  bell  for  telling  the  hours  day  and  night  for  ever 
commonly  called  a  '  clok,'  rendering  to  the  king  \2d.  a  year  at  the 
exchequer  by  the  hands  of  the  bailiffs  for  the  time  being  to  increase  the 
farm  of  the  town  at  the  usual  terms  for  payment  of  the  said  farm  ; 
and  after  at  the  suit  of  the  said  parson,  complaining  that  time  out  of 
mind  a  chapel  was  there  built  within  his  said  parish,  and  was  annexed 
to  his  church  as  parcel  thereof,  that  William  archbishop  of  Canterbury 
late  bishop  of  Worcester,  being  the  diocesan,  at  his  visitation  of  the 
said  bishopric  for  particular  causes  and  defects  by  him  found  suspended 
the  said  chapel,  and  granted  that  the  said  parson  might  build  upon 
the  said  ground  a  dwelling  for  himself  and  his  successors  inasmuch 
as  he  had  no  dwelling  house  within  the  parish,  and  that  although 
the  said  Adam  and  all  his  predecessors  time  out  of  mind  peaceably 
held  the  premises  as  to  their  church  annexed,  William  Auncell  late 
escheator  in  Gloucestershire  took  the  same  into  the  kinsr's  hand  out 
of  the  possession  of  the  said  Adam  without  his  answer,  and  it  was 
given  as  aforesaid  to  the  burgesses,  for  that  the  said  escheator  found 
by  inquisition,  before  him  taken,  that  the  said  chapel  was  built  upon 
the  king's  soil  without  licence  of  the  king  or  his  forefathers,  and 
praying  restitution,  the  king  appointed  Gilbert  Talbot,  John 
Bromwych,  John  de  Borle  antl  Thomas  Catewy,  three  and  two  of 
them,  to  make  inquisition  touching  the  premises  ;  and  by  inquisition 
taken  before  the  said  Gilbert,  John  Bromwych  and  Thomas  it  was  found 
that  the  chapel  of  St.  Martin  Gloucester  and  the  piece  of  ground 
whereupon  it  was  built  were  before  the  statute  of  mortmain  annexed 
to  the  church  of  St.  Michael  Gloucester  as  parcel  thereof,  that  the 
said  chapel  and  ground  ought  to  pertain  to  the  said  Adam  now  parson 
of  St.  Michael  and  not  to  the  king,  and  that  he  and  all  his  predecessors 


*  Tested  by  Edward  prince  of  Aquitaine  and  Wales  and  guardiein  of  England, 


392 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  21 — cont. 

parsons  of  tliat  ohurcli  time  out  of  mind  peaceably  lield  the  said 
chapel  and  ground  until  the  same  were  by  the  said  escheator  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  out  of  the  said  Adam's  possession,  whereupon 
the  king  ordered  tlie  sheriff  to  give  notice  to  the  bailiffs  and  common- 
alty of  Gloucester  to  be  in  chancery  in  this  instant  quinzaine  of  Trinity 
to  shew  cause  for  the  king  or  for  themselves  wherefore  his  said 
letters  patent  ought  not  to  be  revoked,  the  said  ground  taken  again 
into  the  king's  hand  and  restored  to  the  said  parson,  and  further  to 
do  and  receive  what  the  court  should  determine,  and  the  sheriff  returned 
that  he  gave  notice  accordingly  to  Thomas  Styward  and  John  Mone- 
mouthe  bailiffs  of  the  liberty  of  the  town  of  Gloucester  and  to  the 
commonalty  thereof  by  Thomas  Catewy,  John  Foxcote,  Giles  le  Walssh 
and  Edmund  Blount ;  and  because  the  said  bailiffs  and  commonalty 
came  not,  it  was  determined  by  the  court  that  the  said  letters 
patent  should  be  revoked,  and  the  said  ground  be  taken  again  into 
the  king's  hand  and  restored  to  the  said  Adam  and  his  successors 
to  hold  as  he  and  liis  predecessors  held  the  same  before  it  was 
taken  into  the  king's  liand. 

April  20.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order,  if  assured 
Westminster,  that  the  manor  of  Bury  co.  Sussex  is  in  the  hands  of  Richard  earl  of 
Arundell  and  not  of  the  abbot  of  Fecamp  in  Normandy,  to  cause 
the  demand  for  payment  of  the  tenth  last  granted  to  the  king  by  the 
clergy  of  the  province  of  Canterbury  made  upon  the  said  earl  by  the 
collectors  thereof  in  Sussex  to  be  stayed,  discharging  at  the  exchequer 
as  well  the  said  earl  as  the  collectors  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  that 
the  abbot  and  convent  of  Fecamp  by  assent  of  the  whole  chapter 
have  by  charter  enfeoffed  the  said  earl  of  that  manor  to  hold  to  him, 
his  heirs  and  assigns  ;  and  now  on  behalf  of  the  said  earl  the  king 
has  learned  that  the  said  collectors  have  assessed  him  to  payment 
of  the  said  tenth  as  if  the  same  were  in  the  hands  of  the  said  abbot 
and  convent  and  annexed  to  their  spiritualities,  which  it  is  not,  pur- 
posing to  levy  it  of  him,  and  unlawfully  troubling  him,  although  he 
has  paid  the  subsidy  due  to  the  king  for  the  same  among  laymen, 
wherefore  he  has  prayed  for  remedy.  Proviso  that  the  manor  shall 
be  charged  among  laymen  with  the  subsidy,  fifteenths  and  other 
quotas  granted  to  the  Idng  by  the  commons  of  England  since  the 
same  came  to  the  said  earl's  hands,  and  with  those  to  be  granted 
hereafter. 

June  12.  To  Thomas  Sewale  escheator  in  Bedfordshire.     Order   to   remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  lands  of  John  de 
Ardres,  tenant  by  knight  service  of  the  heir  of  John  Traille  tenant  in 
chief  a  minor  in  the.  king's  ^^'ardshi]1,  which  are  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  said  heir's  nonage ;  as  Thomas 
son  and  heir  of  the  said  John  de  Ardres  has  proved  his  age  before  the 
escheator,  and  on  18  June  in  the  39th  year  of  his  reign  the  age  of 
John  son  and  heir  of  tlie  said  John  Traille  w  as  proved,  and  the  king 
took  his  homage  and  fealty,  and  commanded  Hvery  to  be  given  him 
of  his  said  father's  lands. 


June  I.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  chamberlains  of  Ireland.     Order  of  the 

Westminster,  issues  and  profits  of  Ireland  to  pay  100/.  to  Thomas  bishop  of  Lismore 

and  Waterford,  or  to  make  him  an  assignment  where  he  may  best 

be  contented  thereof,   taking  his  acquittance,  notwithstanding  any 


40  EDWARD   ill. 


393 


1372.  Membrane  21 — cont. 

ordinanoo  or  giant  by  the  king  made  for  reserving  such  issues  and 
profits  for  the  expenses  of  the  war  in  Ireland;  as  in  consideration 
of  the  cost  and  labour  by  the  said  bishop  incurred,  as  well  of  his  own 
free  will  as  at  other  times  l)y  the  king's  command  in  coming  many 
times  to  the  king  in  Kngland  for  business  affecting  the  state  of  Ireland, 
the  king  has  granted  him  that  sum  in  aid  of  his  costs  and  expenses  of  the 
king's  gift.  .  By  K. 

June  8.  To  Thomas  de  Musgrave  late  escheator  in   Yorkshire.     Order  of 

Westminster,  the  issues  of  the  manoi'  of  Skynnergrefe  to  pay  to  Adam  de  Everyngham 
of  Laxton  knight  the  arrears  of  10  marks  a  year  from  St.  John  the 
Evangelist  in  the  44th  year  of  the  reign  so  long  as  the  said  Thomas 
was  escheator,  taking  his  ae(|uittancc  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  said  Thomas,  that  William  de  Everyngham 
at  his  death  held  the  said  manor  in  chief  by  knight  service,  that  by 
charter  made  with  the  late  king's  licence  the  same  is  charged  with 
10  marks  a  year  to  the  said  Adam  and  his  heirs,  and  that  the  said 
William  died  on  the  date  aforesaid,  the  manor  being  in  the  king's 
hand  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  William's  heirs. 

Membrane  20. 

July  12.  To  John  de  Waskham  escheator  in  Devon.  Order  to  deliver  to 
Westminster.  Thomas  Peverell  and  Margaret  his  wife,  sister  and  one  of  the  heirs 
of  Hugh  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  de  Courtenay  and  Muriel  his  wife 
tenants  in  chief,  w hich  Hugh  died  within  age  and  in  the  king's  ward- 
ship, such  as  are  in  his  bailiwick  of  the  knights'  fees  and  parts  of  fees 
following,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  the  said  Thomas 
de  Courtenay  and  Muriel  and  by  reason  of  the  said  Hugh's  nonage, 
which  the  king  has  assigned  to  them  to  the  said  Margaret's  purparty, 
namely  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  held  by  the  heirs  of  Nicholas 
Restecombe  and  extended  at  25s.  a  j^ear,  one  knight's  fee  in  Mewy 
and  Godemewy  held  by  the  heirs  of  A\'illiam  Mewy  at  100s.,  one  knight's 
fee  in  Fornhulle  held  by  the  heirs  of  John  Broke  at  1006\,  the  fourth 
part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Boterford  held  by  John  Boterford  at  25?., 
the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Coleton  held  by  Thomas  Gouys 
at  255.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Haghwill  held  by  Guy 
Brit  at  2o6'.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Houkesbearc  in  tlie  said 
county  held  by  James  de  Chuddelegh  at  505.,  and  the  32nd  part  of 
one  knight's  fee  in  Compton  Pauncefot  co.  Somerset  held  by  Edward 
Berkeley  knight  extended  at  35.  4cd.  a  year. 

To  Edmund  Cheyne  escheator  in  Somerset.  Like  order  to  deliver 
to  Thomas  Peverell  and  Margaret  his  wife  the  32nd  part  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  Compton  Pauncefot  held  by  Edw  ard  de  Berkele  knight. 

To  John  de  Waskham  escheator  in  Devon.  Order  to  deliver  to 
Thomas  Peverell  and  Margaret  liis  -wife  such  as  are  in  his  bailiwick 
of  the  advowsons  w  Inch  tiie  king  lias  likewise  assigned  to  them,  namely 
the  advowsons  of  Dupford  extended  at  201.  a  year,  of  Plymptre  in 
the  said  county  at  8^.,  and  of  Southcadbury  co.  Somerset  at  9  marks 
a  year. 

To  Edmund  Cheyne  escheator  in  Somerset.  Like  order  to  deliver 
to  Thomas  Peverell  and  Margaret  his  wife  the  advowson  of  South- 
cadbury. 


394  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  20 — cant. 

July  10.  To  Thomas  de  Navenby  escheator  in  Lincolnsliire.     Order  to  deliver 

Henley.  to  Thomas  d(!  Roos  of  Hamelak  and  Beatrice  his  wife  the  manor  of 
Wragby  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Margaret  who  was 
wife  of  Henry  de  Percy  and  sometime  of  William  son  of  William  dc  Roos 
of  Hamelak  and  by  reason  of  certain  trespasses  ;  as  by  fine  levied 
in  the  king's  court  the  said  Thomas  granted  the  remainder  of  the  said 
manor  and  of  the  manors  of  Orston  and  Warsop  co.  Notyngham,  which 
are  held  in  chief  and  were  held  for  life  by  the  said  Margaret  in  fee  tail 
with  rtn^ersion  for  lack  of  an  heir  of  the  bodies  of  the  said  Margaret 
and  \Villiam  to  the  said  Thomas  and  his  heirs,  to  Henry  de  Codyngton 
parson  of  Botelesford,  Robert  de  Tynton  parson  of  Uifyngton,  Nicholas 
de  Stayngreve  parson  of  Thornton  in  Craven  and  Lawrence  Hauberk 
of  Claxton  and  to  the  heirs  of  Henry  de  Codyngton,  and  they  the 
said  Henry  de  Codyngton,  Robert,  Nicholas  and  Lawrence  took  an 
attornment  of  the  said  Henry  de  Percy  and  Margaret  and  granted  to 
tlie  said  Thomas  and  Beatrice  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  the 
remainder  of  the  said  manors  which  should  come  to  them  by  virtue 
of  the  aforesaid  grant,  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  right 
heirs  of  the  said  Thomas,  not  having  obtained  the  king's  licence  so 
to  do,  and  the  same  are  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of 
Margaret's  death  and  of  those  trespasses  ;  and  of  his  favour  and  for 
100  marks  b}"^  the  said  Thomas  paid,  the  king  by  letters  patent  has 
pardoned  the  trespasses  therein  committed,  granting  that  the  said 
Thomas  and  Beatrice  may  liold  those  manors  as  aforesaid  without 
let  or  trouble  of  the  king  or  his  heirs,  their  justices,  escheators, 
sheiiffs,  bailiffs  or  ministers  whatsoever.  By  p.s.  [29243.] 

The  like,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  Thomas  Grenhill  escheator  in 
Notynghamshire  concerning  livery  of  the  manors  of  Orston  and 
Warsop. 

July  15.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.     Order,  according  to  the  king's  confirmation 

Westminster,  and  grant  hereinafter  recited,  to  deliver  to  the  abbot  and  convent 
of  St.  Mary  York  the  manor  of  Whitgift  with  the  members,  profits 
and  other  appurtenances  thereof,  saving  to  the  king  a  fee  farm  of 
200  marks  ;  as  Queen  Philippa,  who  by  the  king's  grant  held  the 
said  manor  for  her  life,  granted  the  same  to  the  said  abbot  and  convent 
and  to  their  successors  during  her  life  rendering  to  her  every  year 
200  marks,  and  after  on  12  October  in  the  11th  year  of  his  reign  the 
king  by  charter  confirmed  her  grant,  further  granting  that  after  her 
decease  the  said  abbot  and  convent  and  their  successors  should  hold 
the  same  for  ever  to  fee  farm  rendering  200  marks  a  year  at  the 
excliequer  ;  and  now  the  abbot  and  convent  have  petitioned  the  king 
for  restitution  of  the  premises,  as  on  6  July  in  the  44th  year  of  his 
reign  by  letters  patent  he  gave  the  same  to  Robert  de  KnoUes  knight 
and  Constance  his  wife  for  their  lives  contrary  to  the  confirmation  and 
grant  aforesaid,  by  virtue  of  which  gift  the  abbot  and  convent  are 
unlawfully  ousted  therefrom  ;  and  on  12  July  last  the  king  by  advice 
of  the  council  revoked  his  grant  to  the  said  Robert  and  Constance, 
causing  the  said  manor  to  be  taken  into  his  hand.  By  K. 

July  10.  To   Roger  Lascels   escheator  in   Yorkshire.     Order  to   deliver  to 

Henley.       Thomas  de  Roos,  brother  and  heir  of  William  de  Roos  of  Hamelak 

knight,  the  manors  of  Lynton  upon  Ouse  and  Turnumhalle  ^\^th  a 

moiety  of  the  manor  of  Clyfi^e,  90^.  of  rent  in  the  city  of  York  to  be 

taken  yearly  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  the  hands  of  the  bailiffs 


46  EDWARD  III. 


395 


1372. 


Membrane  20 — cant. 


for  tlie  time  biuiig,  and  5)/.  of  rent  in  Roos  in  Holderncssc,  all  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Maigaret  who  was  wife  of  Henry 
do  Percy  knight,  togethtn-  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  it  is  found 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Margaret  at 
her  deatli  lield  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of 
fee,  but  held  the  premises  in  dower  by  endowment  of  the  said  VV^illiam 
sometime  her  husband  of  the  heritage  of  tlie  said  Thomas,  who  is 
of  full  age,  and  that  tlie  said  manor  of  Lynton  is  held  in  chief  by  knight 
ser\doe,  the  manor  of  Tumumhalle,  the  moiety  and  rents  aforesaid  of 
others  than  the  king  ;  and  on  1 1  Juno  in  the  32nd  year  of  his  reign 
the  king  took  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  Thomas,  and 
commanded  Uvery  to  be  given  him  of  the  lands  of  his  heritage. 


Membrane  19. 

July  4.  To  the  sheriff  of  Bedford.      Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Henry  de  Berford,  who  is  too  infirm  to  exercise  that  office. 

June  26.         To  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  John  Waryn,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

July  6.  To  the  chancellor  of  Ireland  for  the  time  being.     Order,  if  the  manor 

Westminster,  or  barony  of  Slane  and  the  new  castle  are  in  the  king's  hand  in  name 
of  wardship  in  lieu  of  such  services  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  Thomas 
Flemyng,  by  writs  under  the  seal  used  in  Ireland  to  assign  to  Max'garet 
who  was  \\ife  of  Bartholomew  de  Burgherssh  knight  dower  of  the 
services  of  the  said  manor  and  new  castle,  whereof  her  said  husband 
was  seised  in  his  demesne  after  he  espoused  her,  according  to  an  extent 
thereof  made  of  which  the  tenor  is  herewith  enclosed,  or  another 
extent  if  need  be,  notwithstanding  the  forfeiture  of  the  premises  or 
the  fact  that  the  said  manor  or  barcmy  and  castle  are  in  the  king's 
hand  for  any  of  the  causes  hereinafter  mentioned,  sending  such  assign- 
ment to  be  enrolled  in  the  chancery  of  England  ;  as  it  is  found  by 
inquisition,  taken  on  Monday  after  St.  Matthew  in  the  45th  year 
of  the  reign  by  Roger  de  Hakensowe  escheator  in  Ireland  by  the 
king's  command  undo-  the  seal  used  in  Ireland,  and  returned  in  the 
chancery  of  England,  that  Simon  Flemyng  baron  of  Slane  at  his  death 
held  that  barony  and  the  new  castle  of  the  said  Bartholomew  as  of 
his  manor  of  Dyiielek,  \\hich  manor  is  held  in  chief  by  the  service 
of  21  marks  of  the  king's  service  when  a  scutage  is  current,  that  the 
said  Bartholomew  in  his  life  time  with  the  king's  licence  aliened  his 
said  manor  to  Peter  Houthe  and  Hugh  Portis  chaplains  and  to  their 
heirs,  that  without  craving  or  obtaining  the  king's  licence  so  to  do 
the  said  chaplains  thereof  enfeoffed  Robert  Wakeman,  Richard 
La\\eles,  William  Warwyk,  Richard  Eustace  and  Gilbert  Wryght 
chaplains  and  their  heirs,  that  after  the  feoffment  the  said  Simon 
attorned  not  himself  to  the  said  chaplains  or  to  any  of  them,  that  he 
died  on  Friday  before  the  Exaltation  of  Holy  Cross  in  the  44th  year  of 
the  reign,  that  Thomas  Flem\Tig  is  his  son  and  next  heir  and  of  the  age 
of  twelve  and  a  half  years  and  unmariied,  that  the  lordship  of  the  manor 
of  Slane  was  at  the  date  of  the  said  inquisition  in  the  king's  hand 
by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of  the  said  Bartholomew  by  virtue  of  an 
ordinance  made  at  Guldeford,  and  that  at  tlie  time  of  that  ordinance 
the  same  was  held  by  the  said  Simon  of  the  said  Bartholomew  for 
that  he  attorned  not  himself  to  the  said  chaplains  ;  and  now  the 


39G  CAJ.KNDAli    OF   CLOSE    liOLLS. 


4 


1372.  Membrane  19 — cont. 

said  Margaret  has  prayed  the  king  to  assign  lier  dower  of  tliat 
loRlship,  namely  of  the  .services  wlierehy  at  his  death  the  said  Simon 
held  the  said  manor  of  Slane  and  the  new  castle  of  the  said 
Bartholomew.  By  p.s.  [29226.] 

July  8.  To  Thomas  de  Grenhull  escheator  in  Notynghamshire.     Order  to 

VVostrainster.  deliver  in  dower  to  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  Robert  de  Tibetot  knight 
tenant  in  ehief  the  manor  of  Langar  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
her  husband's  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  Margaret,  Milicent 
and  Elizabeth  his  daughters  and  heirs ;  as  with  the  assent  of  Richard 
Scrope  the  treasurer,  to  whom  the  king  has  committed  the  wardship 
of  two  thirds  of  the  said  Robert's  lands  until  the  lawful  age  of 
his  heirs,  and  of  William  de  Brerlay  attorney  of  the  said  Margaret, 
of  whom  the  king  has  commanded  an  oath  to  be  taken  by  Walter  Power 
his  clerk  that  she  will  not  marry  without  his  hcence,  the  king  has  as- 
signed her  of  the  said  Robert's  lands,  which  are  in  the  king's  hand  as 
aforesaid,  the  said  manor  and  the  manor  of  Oxenden  co.  Gloucestre 
in  full  satisfaction  of  all  her  dower  as  well  of  the  manors,  lands  and  rents 
which  descended  by  inheritance  to  the  said  Robert's  heirs  as  of  those 
by  him  aliened  or  demised  in  his  life  time  to  other  persons  whereof 
she  was  entitled  to  dower,  except  the  manor  of  Hamptwhayt  and 
other  lands  which  are  in  the  hand  of  John  fitz  WiUiam  in  Yorkshire, 
the  manor  of  Mardelebery  co.  Hertford,  an  inn  in  Lymestrete  and 
four  shops  in  the  parish  of  St.  Katherine  Colman  in  London,  and  the 
knights'  fees  vkhich  were  of  her  said  husband,  to  hold  the  said  manor 
of  Langar  quit  of  rendering  aught  to  the  said  heirs,  but  if  she  shall 
overlive  William  de  Slotheby  she  shall  every  year  after  his  death 
render  6s.  Sd.  at  Midsummer  and  Christmas  by  even  portions  of  the 
said  manor  to  the  said  heirs  during  her  life,  and  to  hold  the  said  manor 
of  Oxenden  qiiit  likewise  in  case  Robert  Lyngayn  shall  overlive  her, 
but  if  she  shall  overlive  him  she  shall  every  year  after  his  death  at 
the  aforesaid  feasts  render  5  marks  by  even  portions  of  that  manor 
to  the  said  heirs  during  her  life. 

To  John  de  Hortesle  of  Letton  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.  Like 
order  to  deliver  the  manor  of  Oxenden  to  the  said  Margaret  in  dower. 

To  Thomas  de  Grenliull  escheator  in  Notynghamshire.  Order  to 
deliver  in  dower  to  the  said  Margaret  the  advowson  of  Langar  ;  as 
of  the  advowsons  which  were  of  the  said  Robert  Tibetot  the  king 
has  likewise  assigned  to  her  the  said  advowson  and  the  advowson 
of  Bar\\'e  co.  Norfolk. 

To  Thomas  Caus  of  Hokhani  escheator  in  Norfolk.  Like  order  to 
deliver  the  advowson  of  BarAve  to  the  said  Margaret  in  dower. 

To  Thomas  de  Navenby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Order  to 
deliver  to  Margaret  late  the  wife  of  Robert  de  Tibetot  knight,  whose 
fealty  the  king  has  commanded  Walter  Power  his  clerk  to  take,  the 
manor  of  Eston  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  said  Robert's  death 
and  the  issues  thereof  taken,  but  not  to  meddle  further  with  a 
messuage,  one  carucate  of  land  and  meadow  and  5s.  of  rent  in 
Mersshton  likewise  taken  into  his  hand,  delivering  to  her  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 


40  EDWAIII)   in.  397 


1372.  Mcmhrane  19 — conl. 

escheator,  that  tlie  said  Robert  at  his  dcatli  held  no  hands  in  that 
county  in  ohiof  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  with  the  king's  Ucenco 
held  the  said  manor  jointly  with  the,  said  Margaret  in  fee  tail,  namely 
to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  botlies,  in  chief  I)y  knight  service,  and  the 
premises  in  Mersshton  of  others  tlian  the  king  ;  and  tiie  king  has 
respited  her  homage  until  Trinity  next. 

To  Thomas  Grenhill  escheator  in  Xotynghamshire.  Order  to  deliver 
to  the  said  Margaret  fourteen  messuages,  two  cottages,  21  bovates 
7J  acres  of  land  in  Berncston  in  the  manor  of  Langar  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Robert  de  Tybetot  knight,  together  with 
the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  lias  learned  by  inquisition,  taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Robert  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in 
that  county  in  chief  as  of  the  crown  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but 
held  the  premises  jointly  with  the  said  Margaret  to  them  and  the 
heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  the  said  manor  is  held  of  the  king  as  of 
the  honour  of  Peverell  which  is  in  his  hand  by  knight  service  and  by 
the  service  of  rendering  10?.  a  year  at  Michaelmas  ;  and  the  king 
has  respited  the  homage  of  the  said  Margaret  until  Trinity  next. 

To  William  Palmer  escheator  in  Leycestersliire.  Order  not  to 
meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Edmerthorp,  three  cottages,  three 
virgates  of  land  and  10s.  of  rent  in  Wymondham,  8.s.  of  rent  in  Stapel- 
ford  and  one  carucate  of  land  in  Barkeston,  the  premises  in 
Wymondham  and  Stapelford  being  parcel  of  tlie  said  manor,  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Robert  de  Tybetot  knight, 
delivering  to  Margaret  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
said  Robert  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  nor  of 
others  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  manor,  lands  and 
tenements  jointh^  with  the  said  Margaret  in  fee  tail,  namely  to  them 
and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others 
than  the  king. 

Membrane  18. 

July  8.  To  John  Carnels  escheator  in  Roteland.     Order  not  to  meddle  further 

Westminster,  with  GOs.  of  rent  in  Marketoverton  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the 
death  of  Robert  de  Tybetot  knight,  delivering  to  William  de  Sloby 
parson  of  Thetelthorp  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Robert 
at  his  death  held  no  lands  or  tenements  in  that  county  in  chief  nor  of 
others  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  rent  in  fee  jointly 
with  the  said  William,  and  that  the  same  is  not  held  of  the  king. 

July  10.  To  Thomas  de  Brantyngham  constable  of  Somerton  castle,  or  to 
Westminster,  his  lieutenant  there.  Order  to  take  of  Thomas  de  Rvbv  and  Agnes 
his  wife  security  that  they  will  henceforth  content  the  king  of  a  rent 
of  5s.  a  year,  and  of  all  that  pertains  to  the  king  as  well  of  that  rent 
as  for  suit  of  his  court  at  Carleton  by  Basyngham  twice  a  year  before 
a  messuage,  three  bovates  of  land  and  11  acres  of  meadow  there  were 
taken  into  his  hand,  and  to  deliver  to  them  the  messuage,  land  and 
meadow  aforesaid  ;  as  by  judgment  in  the  king's  court  before  his 
justices  of  the  Bench  they  have  recovered  against  Elizabeth  who  was 
wife  of  Richard  Willughby  kniglit  three  messuages,  5^  bovates  of  land 
and  11  acres  of  meadow  in  Templebruere  and  Carleton  aforesaid  in 


398  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane   18 — coril. 

right  of  the  said  Agnes,  as  appears  by  the  record  and  process  which 
the  king  has  caused  to  come  before  him  in  chancery,  and  have 
petitioned  the  king  for  remedy  inasmuch  as  by  virtue  of  that  judgment 
they  might  not  obtain  possession  of  one  of  tlie  said  messuages,  three 
bovates  of  the  said  land  and  of  the  said  meadow  for  that  the  same 
were  previously  tak(m  into  the  king's  hand  ;  and  willing  so  far  as  he 
lawfully  might  to  aid  them,  the  king  by  letters  patent  appointed 
John  de  Rypynghale  and  Thomas  de  Navenby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire 
to  make  inquisition  touching  the  cause  wherefore  the  same  were 
so  taken  and  by  whom,  of  whom  they  are  held,  and  by  what  service,  and 
to  send  the  inquisition  into  chancery  under  their  seals ;  and  now  it  is 
found  by  inquisition  so  taken  that  the  premises  in  Carleton  are  held 
of  the  king  by  the  service  of  5s.  a  year  and  by  suit  of  his  said  court 
twice  a  year,  and  that  they  were  seized  into  the  king's  hand  by 
Stephen  Shawe  and  Thomas  Poly  by  order  of  Henry  de  Greystok 
late  constable  of  the  said  castle  for  that  the  said  rent  and  suit  of  court 
were  in  arrear. 

April  28.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  and  to  the 
Westminster,  chamberlains.  Order,  as  the  king  at  other  times  has  commanded  them, 
that  the  treasurer  and  chamberlains  shall  pay  every  year  of  the 
treasury  to  the  dean  and  canons  of  St.  Stephen  wdthin  Westminster 
palace  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent  so  much  of  66^.  13s.  4:d. 
of  rent  issuing  from  certain  houses  within  the  staple  of  Westminster 
as  by  inquisition  or  otherwise  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  may 
lawfully  be  assured  that  they  might  not  heretofore  or  henceforth  may 
not  take  for  the  cause  hereinafter  mentioned  ;  as  on  1  January  in  the 
27th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  letters  patent  gave  to  the  said  dean 
and  canons  and  to  their  successors,  to  hold  in  frank  almoin  of  the 
king  and  other  the  chief  lords  of  the  fee,  the  chamber  within  the  gate  by 
the  king's  bridge  sometime  of  the  clerk  of  the  kitchen  where  an  entry 
is  now  opened  into  the  said  chapel,  the  houses  wdtliin  the  said  palace 
aforetime  appointed  for  stables  of  the  king's  destriers  and  other  his 
horses,  his  garden  there  as  it  extends  in  length  and  breadth  between 
the  said  houses  and  the  lodging  sometime  of  the  earl  of  Kent  [in] 
the  towTi  of  Westminster  to  the  same  adjoining,  and  the  said  lodging 
as  fully  as  the  king  had  the  same  of  the  gift  of  John  late  earl  of  Kent, 
and  all  the  tenements  in  the  said  town  \\hich  were  of  Roger  de 
Hayton  the  king's  surgeon  deceased,  whereof  the  said  Roger's  heirs 
made  a  release  and  quitclaim  to  the  king  and  his  heirs  ;  and  after 
by  other  letters  patent  granted  them  the  rent  aforesaid  in  part  of 
500Z.  yearly  of  lands  and  rents  by  him  formerly  granted  to  them, 
so  that  if  that  rent  should  cease  wholly  or  in  part,  or  if  at  another 
time  they  should  be  anywise  hindered  in  taking  the  same,  they  should 
every  year  at  the  exchequer  have  and  take  of  the  treasury  so  much 
as  should  be  lacking  of  the  said  rent  until  pro\'ision  should  by  the 
king  and  his  heirs  be  made  them  of  particular  rents  to  the  value 
thereof  to  be  for  ever  possessed  by  them  and  their  successors  ;  and 
now  the  said  dean  and  canons  have  prayed  the  king  to  cause  payment 
to  be  made  them  of  the  arrears  of  that  rent,  as  by  removal  of  the 
said  staple  it  has  in  great  part  ceased  so  that  they  might  not  nor  yet 
may  take  the  same  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will  that  his  said  grant  shall 
take  e£fect.  It  is  not  the  king's  intent  that  the  chamber,  houses, 
garden,  lodging  and  tenements  granted  to  them  as  aforesaid  in  almoin 
be  charged  with  the  said  rent  of  66/.  13s.  4ci.  By  C. 


46  EDWARD  III. 


390 


1372.  Membrane  17. 

July  23.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of 
Westminster.  Quencsburgh,  and  the  controller  and  troner  in  that  port.  Order, 
upon  the  petition  of  Nicholas  Michael  of  Venyse  and  other  niercliants 
of  Lunibardy,  to  cause  the  balances,  weights  and  other  instruments 
appointed  for  weighing  wool  in  the  said  port  to  be  brought  at  tlie 
cost  of  the  said  merchants  to  tlie  port  of  Sandewic,  their  wool  to  be 
there  weighed,  and  their  fells,  cloths  and  other  merchundise  to  be 
numbered  and  cocketed,  suffering  them  by  themselves,  their  servants 
or  attorneys  without  let  to  carry  the  same  to  Lumbardy  when  so 
weighed,  numbered  and  cocketed,  the  customs,  subsidies  and  other 
duties  being  first  paid,  in  a  great  ship  of  Venyse  called  a  "  taryt,' 
Peter  Coledemere  owner  (patronns),  according  to  the  king's  licence  ; 
as  their  petition  shews  that  the  king  gave  them  licence  to  bring  the 
said  ship  to  England,  lade  it  at  Sandewic  with  wool,  fells,  cloth  and 
other  merchandise  to  the  amount  of  500  sacks,  and  paying  the  customs, 
subsidies  and  duties  which  they  should  pay  as  well  this  side  the  sea 
as  at  Calais  if  such  goods  were  brought  to  the  staple  of  Calais,  to  bring 
the  said  ship  to  Lumbardy  with  the  same,  praying  the  king  for 
licence  to  weigh  and  number  the  same  in  the  port  of  Sandewic  in  order 
to  save  their  cost  and  expenses  in  carrying  them  to  Quenesburgh. 


Membrane  16. 

July  15.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  chamberlains  of  the  exchequer  of  Ireland. 
Westminster.  Order  of  the  treasury  of  Ireland  to  pay  for  his  wages  to  Richard  de 
Hemebrygge,  whom  the  king  has  now  made  one  of  his  Serjeants  at 
arms,  I2d.  a  day  from  the  time  of  his  coming  thither  so  long  as  he 
shall  make  his  abode  in  Ireland,  taking  his  acquittance,  and  due 
allowance  shall  be  made  them  in  their  account  at  the  exchequer  of 
England  ;  as  for  the  said  Richard's  good  service  the  king  of  his  favour 
has  by  reason  of  the  said  office  granted  him  by  letters  patent  I2d. 
a  day  for  his  wages  to  be  taken  during  pleasure  at  the  exchequer, 
and  he  is  by  the  king  appointed  to  abide  on  his  service  in  Ireland  in 
the  company  of  Robert  de  Assheton  justiciary  of  Ireland. 

July  22.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  the  city 
Westminster,  of  London.  Order  to  suffer  Nicholas  Michael  and  other  merchants 
of  Lunibardy  by  themselves  or  their  servants  without  paying  aught 
to  the  king's  use  to  lade  in  ships  in  the  port  of  London  and  bring 
to  the  staple  of  Quenesburgh  350  sacks  of  wool  and  50  bales  of  lambs' 
fells  and  cloths  of  theirs  which  are  now  in  the  port  of  London  it 
is  said,  so  that  before  the  same  sliall  pass  thence  they  shall  cause  them 
to  be  truly  weighed  and  numbered,  and  shall  certify  the  collectors  of 
customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  Quenesburgh  of  the  weight  and 
number  thereof,  in  order  that  those  collectors  being  so  certified  shall 
take  to  the  king's  use  such  customs,  subsidies  and  duties  as  the  mer- 
chants should  pay  thereupon  if  they  took  the  goods  to  the  staple 
of  Calais,  in  such  certificate  expressly  requiring  the  collectors  at 
Quenesburgh  to  certify  them  of  their  action  in  the  matter,  and  the 
said  merchants  before  the  same  shall  pass  thence  to  find  security 
that  they  shall  bring  those  goods  to  the  staple  of  Quenesburgh  and  not 
elsewhere,  shall  truly  pay  the  customs,  subsidies  and  duties  as  aforesaid 
to  the  collectors  in  that  port,  and  shall  answer  to  the  king  for  the 
said  customs,  subsidies  and  duties  in  case  tlie  goods  be  taken  over 
sea  before  coming  to  the  staple  of  Quenesburgh,  or  in  case  they  be 


400  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROf.LS. 


1372.  Mcmbrcme   IG — cutil. 

lost  at  sea  ;  as  the  king  has  given  the  said  inerehants  licence  to  lade 
the  wool,  fells  and  cloths  aforesaid  in  ships  in  the  port  of  Sandwicand 
to  take  them  to  Lunil)ardy. 

Vacated,  because  given  up  and  entered  otherwise  upon  the  Fine  Roll 
for  this  year. 

June  6.  To   the   sheriff   of   Northumberland.     Order   to   cause   as   well   40 

Westminster,  marks  for  four  years  i)ast  adjudged  as  hereinafter  mentioned  to  John 
son  and  heir  of  Robert  de  Maners  tenant  in  chief,  a  minor  in  the 
king's  wardship,  as  10  marks  every  year  henceforward  for  his 
maintainance  until  he  shall  come  of  age  to  be  levied  of  his  father's 
lands  comjuitted  to  Edward  de  Letham  deceased,  and  to  be  delivered  to 
the  said  heir,  according  to  the  effect  of  the  said  judgment ;  as  lately  at 
his  suit  averring  that  the  king  committed  to  the  said  Edward  the 
wardship  of  two  carucates  of  land  in  Ethale,  4s.  of  rent  in  Tossam 
and  the  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Ethale,  held  of  the  said  heir's 
heritage  by  Alina  who  was  wife  of  the  said  Robert  (then  deceased), 
to  hold  until  the  said  heir's  lawful  age  finding  him  competent  main- 
tenance, and  that  from  the  time  of  the  said  Alina's  death  the  said 
Ed\\ard  would  find  him  no  maintenance,  the  king  ordered  the  then 
sheriff  to  give  the  said  Edward  notice  to  be  in  chancery  at  a  set  day 
now  past  to  shew  cause  wherefore  he  ought  not  to  content  the  said 
heir  for  his  maintenance  since  her  death  and  find  him  the  same 
thenceforward  until  his  lawful  age  according  to  the  king's  letters 
patent,  and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court  should  determine 
in  that  behalf  ;  and  by  process  thereupon  made  it  was  determined 
that  the  said  heir  should  have  for  liis  maintenance  40  marks  for  four 
years  then  past  and  thenceforward  10  marks  a  year  until  his  lawful 
age  ;  and  afterwards  on  behalf  of  the  said  heir  the  king  was  informed 
that  in  the  said  Edward's  life  time  he  might  not  by  virtue  of  that 
judgment  obtain  any  maintenance  competent  for  his  estate,  wherefore 
the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  give  notice  to  the  said  Edward's 
executors  to  be  in  chancery  in  the  (|uinzaine  of  St.  John  Baptist  last 
in  order  to  shew  cause  wherefore  they  ought  not  to  content  the  said 
heir  of  the  40  marks  so  adjudged  to  him  and  thenceforward  to  pay 
him  10  marks  a  year  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent  and  the 
said  judgment,  and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court  should 
determine,  and  tlie  sheriff  returned  that  he  gave  notice  accordingly 
to  Robert  Claveryng  knight  and  Joan  his  wife  executrix  of  the  said 
EdA\  ard  ;  at  which  day  Robert  de  Claveryng  and  Joan  came  by 
Thomas  de  Stanley  clerk  theii-  attorney,  and  the  said  heir  by  Hugh 
de  Mitford  his  guardian,  and  with  their  assent  a  day  was  given  in  the 
octaves  of  Trinity  then  next,  at  which  day  the  parties  came,  and 
the  said  Robert  and  Joan  said  nought  to  the  purpose  wherefore  they 
ought  not  to  content  the  said  heir  as  aforesaid. 


•&' 


July  29.  To  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester.  Order  with  all  speed  he  may  to  bring 
Westminster,  before  the  council  John  Garyn,  John  Swyft,  John  Magot,  John 
Meleward,  Thomas  Mattok,  William  Churchemon  and  John  Gaule 
wherever  found  in  his  baili^^'ick  within  liberties  and  without,  to  answer 
for  a  contempt  and  for  other  things  \\hich  shall  then  and  there  be 
laid  against  them  on  the  king's  behalf,  and  further  to  do  and  receive 
Avhat  shall  there  by  the  king  and  council  be  appointed,  bringing  also 
this  writ ;  as  they  were  by  John  de  Mynstreworth  retained  in  the 
king's  service  to  set  forth  in  his  company  to  the  wars,  and  by  his 


46   EDWARD    III.  401 


1372.  Mrmhrnvp  16 — conf. 

hands  received  for  their  wages  divei-s  sums  of  the  king's  moneys,  and 
liave  taken  and  do  yet  take  no  heed  to  set  forth  as  by  covenant  they 
uero  hound  to  do,  but  in  contoni])t  of  the  king  are  hiding  tliemselves 
aiul  running  hitlu>r  and  tliither  in  the  said  county  sc^eking  to  escape, 
a**  John  de  Mvnstreworth  has  witnessed  before  the  council. 
The  Hke  to  the  following  : — 

The  slieritf  of  Hereford  concerning  Thomas  Longeford,  Thomas 

Couyn,  James  Brugge,  John  Hereford  and  Jo1m  Dumbelton. 
Tlie  sheriff  of  Somerset  concerning  John  Deveros  kniglit. 
The  sheiiff  of  Worcester  concerning  John  Wradwell. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester.  Like  order  concerning  John  Herdmon 
pai-son  of  Mynstrewortli  ;  as  he  received  of  John  de  Mynstreworth 
certain  sums  of  the  king's  moneys  to  be  paid  to  divei's  men  at  arms, 
armed  men  and  archers  setting  forth  in  the  company  of  the  said 
John  de  MjTistreworth  on  the  king's  service,  for  wliich  he  has  taken 
and  does  yet  take  no  heed  to  render  account  or  answer  to  liim,  in 
contempt  of  the  king. 

July  22.  To  the  justiciary  of  Ireland,  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the 
Westminster,  exchequer  of  Ireland.  Order,  if  assured  that  the  prior  of  Lanthony 
in  Wales  has  by  his  proctor  in  Ireland  borne  all  manner  of  charges 
and  imposts  for  the  expenses  of  the  war  in  Ireland  reasonably  laid  upon 
the  clergy  of  Ireland  and  falling  upon  liim  in  respect  of  liis  tem- 
poralities in  Ireland  since  Easter  in  the  43rd  year  of  the  reign,  and  has 
with  the  said  clergy  paid  tenths  and  other  payments  in  respect  of  his 
ecclesiastical  benefices  there,  to  take  of  him  or  his  said  proctor  security 
for  payment  of  all  such  charges,  imposts,  tenths  and  other  payments 
in  future,  and  to  remove  the  king's  hand  from  his  temporalities  and 
spiritualities  in  Ireland,  suffering  him  by  liimself  or  his  said  proctor 
to  take  the  issues  and  profits  thereof  remaining  over  and  above  such 
charges  and  payments,  and  without  let  to  bring  the  same  to  England 
for  the  maintenance  of  himself  and  of  the  convent,  notwithstanding 
that  the  prior  dwells  not  in  person  in  Ireland  ;  and  order  to  the  said 
treasurer  and  the  barons  to  stay  their  demand  made  by  exchequer 
summons  upon  the  said  prior  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  issues 
of  his  said  temporalities  and  spiritualities  since  Easter  aforesaid 
which  are  not  yet  levied,  discharging  the  prior  thereof ;  as  by 
complaint  made  on  his  behalf  it  is  shewn  the  king  that  the  greatest 
part  of  his  maintenance  and  the  maintenance  of  his  convent  consists 
in  the  issues  and  profits  of  liis  temporalities  and  ecclesiastical  benefices 
in  Ireland,  that  in  all  times  past  lie  has  been  used  to  bring  the  same 
from  Ireland  to  his  house  in  England  for  their  maintenance,  that 
though  by  his  said  proctor  he  has  heretofore  borne  and  paid  and  is 
ready  to  bear  and  pay  with  others  of  the  clergy  of  Ireland  the  charges, 
tenths  and  payments  aforesaid,  by  colour  of  an  ordinance  lately 
made  with  the  assent  of  the  council  that  all  lords  and  others  of 
England  having  or  claiming  lordships  or  lands  in  Ireland  should  be  there 
at  Easter  aforesaid  to  dwell  upon  their  said  lands  and  upon  the 
conquest  thereof,  or  should  at  their  own  cost  send  other  people  there 
to  dwell  upon  the  defence,  ruling  and  conquest  of  the  same,  all  his  said 
temporalities  and  all  his  ecclesiastical  benefices  are  taken  into  the 
king's  hand,  and  that  moreover  he  is  unlawfully  distrained  to  answer 
to  the  king   at   the  exchequer  at  Dublin  for  the  issues  of  the  said 

OR  26 


402 


CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1872.  Mernbrane  16 — cont. 

temporalities  and  benefices,  wherefore  he  has  prayed  for  Hvery  of  his 
said  possessions,  and  to  be  discharged  of  the  issues  thereof  not  yet 
taken  or  levied  for  which  lie  is  distrained  as  aforesaid. 

Aug.  3.  Factum  est  incle  sicut  alias,  vel  aiusam  etc. 

Westminster. 

Aug.  4.  To  the  sheriff  of  E.ssex.     Order  without   difficulty  to   deliver  and 

Westminster,  restore  to  S.  bishop  of  London  and  his  ministers  his  goods,  chattels 
and  temporalities,  if  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  virtue  of  his  recent 
writ,  not  meddling  further  with  the  same  by  colour  of  the  said  writ  ; 
as  by  reason  of  arrears  to  him  due  of  the  subsidy  last  granted  by  the 
said  bishop  and  all  the  clergy  of  the  city  and  diocese  of  London  for 
the  needful  protection  and  defence  of  the  realm,  by  the  said  writ  the 
king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  take  into  his  hand  all  goods  and  chattels 
and  all  temporalities  of  the  said  bishop,  and  to  keep  them  in  safe 
custody  until  further  order ;  but  that  writ  issued  from  the  king's 
court  by  inadvertence  contrary  to  his  will  and  intent,  and  the  king 
revokes  the  execution  thereof,  and  whatsoever  has  followed  or 
liereafter  may  follow  the  same.  Nevertheless  it  is  the  king's  will  that 
with  all  possible  speed  full  satisfaction  be  made  of  the  arrears  of  the 
said  subsidy.  By  K.  and  C. 

Membrane  15. 

Aug.  8.  To  John  Bataille  escheator  in  Essex.     Order  to  cause  Henry  son 

Westminster,  and  heir  of  John  Sorapnour  tenant  in  chief  to  have  .seisin  of  his  said 

father's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  ;    as  he  has 

proved   his   age  before   the  escheator,   and   the   king   has   taken  his 

homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [29278.] 

July  15.         To  John  Cavendissh.     Order  to  be  intendant  upon  the  office  of 
Westminster,  chief  justice  for  holding  pleas  before  the  king  ;   as  it  is  the  king's  will 
that  he  be  chief  justice  during  pleasure. 


Aug.  20. 
Preston 
Manor. 


Membrane  14. 

To  the  mayor,  sheriffs  and  aldermen  of  the  city  of  London.  Order 
upon  their  allegiance,  as  the  king  trusts  in  them  and  as  they  would 
avoid  his  grievous  anger  and  such  pain  as  they  may  incur  toward  him, 
to  cause  such  order  to  be  taken  with  all  speed  they  may  that  no  rushes, 
dung,  filth  or  noxious  matter  be  hencefonvard  cast  into  the  water 
in  that  port,  but  that  the  same  be  thence  removed  and  altogether 
abated  to  the  mending  of  the  port  and  to  enlarge  the  channel  of  the 
river  Thames,  so  beliaving  in  this  behalf  that  the  king  shall  have  no 
cause  for  wrath  against  them  ;  as  the  king  has  particular  information 
that  rushes,  dung,  filth  and  noxious  matter  from  the  said  city  and 
the  suburbs  thereof  have  long  been  cast  into  the  said  river  and  are  daily 
cast  therein,  that  the  said  river  and  port  are  so  obstructed  and  the 
channel  so  straitened  that  great  ships  and  vessels  may  not  now  resort 
to  the  said  city  as  of  old  time  they  used  to  do,  but  are  hindered 
therefrom,  to  the  damage  of  the  king  and  the  said  city  and  of  the 
lords  and  others  of  the  people  flocking  thither  ;  and  the  king  would 
apply  a  fitting  remedy.  By  K.  and  C. 


46  EDWARD   TTI. 


403 


1B72.  Membrane  13. 

Sept.  3.  To  the  mayor  and  sheritfs  of  London.     Order  to  admit  William  de 

Wallingford.  Hockele,  the  substitute  appointed  by  William  de  Strete  the  king's 
Serjeant,  his  butlei',  to  execute  the  ofKce  of  coroner  in  the  city  of 
London  in  his  room  when  by  the  said  butler  required,  taking 
nevertheless  of  the  said  substitute  an  oath  that  lie  will  behave  well 
and  truly  in  the  said  ofhce  so  long  as  he  siiall  be  therein  ;  as  the  said 
butler,  to  whom  pertains  the  said  office,  is  engaged  upcm  div^ers  the 
king's  business  in  divers  parts  of  England,  and  may' not  have  leisure 
to  execute  the  oi!ice  in  jierson.* 


Membrane  12. 

Aug.  16.  To  Thomas  de  Xavenby  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Order  to  keep 
Westminster,  in  the  king  s  hand  until  further  order  the  moiety  of  a  messuage,  90 
acres  of  land  and  15  acres  of  pasture  in  Coleby  lield  of  the  king  as  of 
the  honour  of  Huntyngdon,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the 
other  moiety  of  the  said  messuage,  !)0  acres  of  land,  15  acres  of 
pasture  and  54.s.  4rf.  of  rent  in  the  said  town  held  of  the 
honour  of  Richemond,  delivering  up  any  issues  taken  of  the  latter 
premises  since  the  death  of  Hugh  de  Swynford  kniglit  ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said 
Hugh  at  his  death  held  in  fee  tail  the  premises  of  the  honour  of 
Huntyngdon  by  tlie  service  of  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee,  and  the 
other  premises  and  the  rent  aforesaid  by  knight  service  of  John  duke 
of  Lancastre  as  of  the  honour  of  Richemond  which  was  then  in  his 
hand,  and  that  Thomas  de  Swynford  is  son  and  next  heir  of  the  said 
Hugh,  and  is  within  age. 

Aug.  4.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton.     Order  by  distraint  of  their  goods 

Weatminstep.  and  chattels  and  by  such  other  means  as  he  best  may  to  compel  all  and 
singular  thfe  parsons  and  men  of  the  church  who  are  refusing  to  pay 
the  sums  at  which  they  are  reasonably  assessed  towards  the  subsidy 
of  50,000/.  granted  by  the  prelates  and  clergy  of  the  provinces  of 
Canterbury  and  York,  whose  names  John  bishop  of  Lincoln  shall 
certify  under  his  seal  as  rebellious,  and  excommunicate,  aliens  excepted 
whose  possessions  are  in  the  king's  hand,  to  pay  such  sums  as  are  in 
arrear  ;  as  for  the  safety  and  defence  of  the  realm  and  the  church  of 
England  the  said  prelates  and  clergy  granted  that  subsidy  to  be  paid 
at  the. exchequer  at  Michaelmas  last  and  the  Purification  then  next 
by  even  portions,  and  in  order  that  the  same  might  the  more  easily 
be  borne  to  the  peace  of  the  clergy  the  king  ^\illed  that  parsons  and 
men  of  the  church  whatsoever,  exempt  and  not  exempt,  should 
contribute  rateably  to  the  said  sum  of  their  benefices  and  possessions 
whatsoever  \nthin  the  said  provinces  taxed  and  not  taxed,  and 
stipendiary  priests  of  those  provinces  of  their  stipends,  any  privileges 
heretofore  granted  by  the  king  or  his  forefathers  or  by  others  what- 
soever notwithstanding,  and  notwithstanding  that  some  of  them 
used  not  to  contribute  to  such  charges,  and  that  in  case  any  of  them 
should  refuse  so  to  contribute  or  should  be  rebellious,  the  king  should 
cause  them  to  be  compelled  to  pay  the  sum  falling  upon  them  and 
upon  every  of  them  according  to  the  assessment  made  by  the  bishop 
of  the  diocese  ;  and  divers  parsons  and  men  of  the  church  of  that 
county    have  taken  and  do  yet  take  no  heed  to  pay  the  portions 

*  Tested  by  Edward  prince  of  Aquitaine  and  Wales  and  guardian  of  England. 


404 


CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1372. 


Membrane  12 — cont. 


reasonably  falling  upon  them  by  assessment  of  the  said  bishop  made 
according  to  the  king's  commission,  though  by  him  many  times 
requested  so  to  do,  wherefore  by  the  bishop's  authority  they  have 
fallen  under  sentence  of  excommunication,  nor  will  they  ])e  justified 
(se  juslitiari)  by  ecclesiastical  censure,  and  so  by  their  rebellion  great 
sums  of  money  of  the  said  subsidy  which  ought  to  have  been  paid  at 
the  terms  aforesaid  arc  in  arrear  to  the  king's  prejudice  and  hurt, 
delaying  the  furtherance  of  the  business  of  the  realm. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  sheriff  of  Hertford. 

The  sheriff  of  Bedford. 

The  sheriff  of  Bukingham. 

The  sheriff  of  Oxford. 

The  sheriff  of  Huntingdon. 


Membrane  \\. 

Sept.  24.  To  the  collectors  in  the  port  of  the  city  of  London  of  the  subsidy 
Wallingford.  of  (id.  in  the  pound  granted  by  the  merchants  of  England.  Order 
to  suffer  John  Bosham  citizen  and  mercer  of  London  without  a  second 
payment  of  the  said  subsidy  to  the  king's  use  to  take  or  send  over  sea 
from  that  port  a  certain  portion  of  merchandise  bought  in  Flanders 
and  brought  to  the  said  city  ;  as  he  has  shewn  the  king  that  he  caused 
the  same  to  be  bought  by  a  servant  of  his  and  brought  to  London, 
that  his  purpose  is  to  .send  over  sea  the  said  portion  thereof,  which 
is  not  able  to  be  sold  within  the  realm,  to  be  delivered  to  those  from 
whose  hands  he  received  it,  but  that  contrary  to  the  intent  of  the 
grant  the  collectors  are  a  second  time  demanding  Qd.  in  the  pound 
upon  that  portion  as  if  it  were  being  taken  to  Flanders  to  traffic  withal, 
though  according  to  the  grant  of  the  subsidy  he  has  truly  paid  them 
the  same  upon  every  pound  thereof  ;  and  the  said  John  appearing  in 
person  in  chancery  has  made  oath  that  the  said  portion  shall  be 
taken  to  Flanders  to  be  delivered  to  the  merchants  of  whom  it  was 
bought,  and  not  to  traffic  mthal.* 

Sept.  22.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  London. 
Wallingford.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Thomas  Cornwaleys,  John  Clyvele,  William 
Tonge  and  John  Cavendissh  citizens  and  merchants  of  London,  and 
of  other  merchants  of  that  city,  to  suffer  Gerard  van  Bicel  master  of 
a  ship  called  '  la  Seinte  Mariecogg  '  of  Harderwyk  freely  without  let 
to  pass  from  that  port  to  the  town  of  Burdeux  with  the  said  ship 
and  with  the  cloths  and  other  merchandise  therein,  the  customs  and 
subsidies  thereupon  due  being  first  paid  ;  as  the  said  merchants  have 
prayed  licence  to  lade  the  said  ship  with  cloths  and  other  merchandise, 
and  to  send  them  thither  by  the  said  Gerard  in  order  to  bring  again 
wines  to  the  said  city,  and  the  king  has  granted  licence  for  that  the 
said  Thomas,  John,  William  and  John,  appearing  in  person  in 
chancery,  have  mainperned  under  pain  of  the  value  of  such  mer- 
chandise that  the  said  Gerard  shall  not  pass  the  coast  of  Sandwic 
called  the  '  Dounes  '  with  the  said  ship  and  goods  until  the  king  shall 
have  withdrawn  from  the  coast  of  England  to  foreign  parts. 


*  This  writ  and  the  next  are  tested  by  the  guardian. 


46  EDWARD  III. 


405 


1372.  Membrane  10. 

Oct.  12.  To  John  Cavondissh  and  Thomas  dc  Ingclby  jiusticcs  appointed  to 

VVeetniineter.  hold  plea.s  before  the  king.  Order  by  writ  of  tii.si  priu-s  to  cause  the 
in(iuisition  wliich  is  to  be  taken  before  the  king  between  the  king 
and  the  abbot  of  I'eterborougli,  for  tliat  tlie  abbot".s  predeeessor-s 
without  obtaining  the  king's  hcence  it  is  said  acquired  of  Nicholas 
de  Ry  kniglit  and  Juliana  his  w  ife  300  acres  of  marsh  in  Oosberkirke, 
and  of  tiie  abbot  of  8\\yneshe\ed  300  acres  of  marsh  in  the  same 
town,  to  be  taken  before  them  the  said  justices  or  one  of  them. 


To  the  same.  Order  by  writ  of  nisi  prius  to  cause  the  inquisition 
whereupon  Robert  Ferour  of  Peterborough  (de  Burgo),  John 
Walrauen  of  Peykirke  and  William  Galoweye  of  Peykirke  iiave  put 
themselves  before  the  king,  for  that  they  entered  the  close  of  John  de 
8paldyng  '  cosyner  '  of  Croyland  and  there  stole  a  net  and  fish  of  the 
price  of  40s.,  with  which  net  and  fish  they  fied  it  is  said,  to  be  taken 
before  them  the  said  justices  or  one  of  them. 

Oct.  14.  To  the  baihlis  of  the  city  of  York  for  the  time  being.  Order  of  the 
Westminster,  farm  of  that  city  to  pay  to  Thomas  brother  and  heir  of  William  de 
Roos  of  Hamelak  tenant  in  chief  the  arrears  since  10  July  last  as 
well  of  90/.  of  rent  held  in  dower  by  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  the 
said  ^^'illiam  as  of  10/.  of  rent  to  him  formerly  delivered,  and  hence- 
forward to  pay  the  said  Thonias  both  yearly  sums  at  the  accustomed 
terms,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  on  14  Februaiy  in  the  27th  year  of 
his  reign  of  the  lands  and  rents  of  the  said  William  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said 
Thomas  the  king  assigned  in  dower  to  the  said  Margaret  i)0/.  of  the 
100/.  to  be  taken  of  the  farm  of  the  said  city  which  the  late  king 
granted  to  William  de  Roos  father  of  the  said  William  and  to  his 
heirs  ;  and  after  on  21  January  in  the  31st  year  the  age  of  the  said 
Thomas  was  prov^ed,  and  the  king  took  his  homage  and  commanded 
livery  to  be  given  liim  of  his  said  brother's  lands,  commanding  the 
said  bailiffs  every  year  of  the  farm  of  the  city  to  pay  as  well  to 
the  said  Maigaret  the  UO/.  to  her  assigned  as  the  remaining  10/.  to  the 
said  Thomas  ;  and  on  10  July  last  upon  the  finding  of  an  inquisition, 
taken  at  the  king's  command  by  Roger  Lascels  escheator  in  Yorkshire, 
that  the  said  Margaret  is  dead,  and  that  at  her  death  she  held  in  dower 
of  the  heritage  of  the  said  Thomas  1)0/.  of  rent  in  the  said  city  to  be 
taken  yearly  by  the  hands  of  the  bailift's  at  Easter  and  Michaelma^s, 
the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  deliver  that  rent  to  the  said 
Thomas. 

Et  erat  patens. 

Oct.  12.  To  Richard  Nonvych  escheator  in  Sussex.     Order  not  to  meddle 

Westminster,  further  with  the  manor  of  Elsted  and  5  marks  of  rent  in  Dychenyng 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Thomas  Camoys  knight, 
dehvering  to  Margaret  his  ^^ife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said 
Thomas  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  chief  in  his  demesne  jxs  of 
fee  nor  in  service,  but  held  the  said  manor  and  rent  jointly  with 
the  said  Margaret  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  John  de  Gotys  parson  of 
Launsyng,  Robert  Bryghryche  parson  of  Aldebury,  John  atte  Hyde 
of  Irvnghame  and  Peter  Clerc  of  Hertyng,  and  that  the  same  are 
held  of  othei-s  than  the  king. 


406 


CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1372. 


Meiiibrant  10 — cirnt. 


Oct.  25.  To  Thomas  Sewalo  osuheator  in  liukingliauisliin.'.  Order  to  deliver 
Westminster,  to  Katlicrinc  as  eldest  daughter  and  iieir  of  William  de  la  Plaunke 
tenant  in  chief,  and  to  John  son  of  Fulk  de  Bermyngham  and 
Elizabeth  his  wife  tlie  other  daugiiter  and  heir  of  the  said  William, 
the  advowson  of  Haveresham  church  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
his  dcatli,  to  hold  to  the  purparties  falling  to  them  according  to  a 
partition  between  them  made  ;  as  lately  upon  the  finding  of  divers 
inquisitions,  taken  by  the  king's  command  after  the  said  Wilham's 
death,  that  he  held  two  thirds  of  the  manor  of  Haveresham  in  chief 
by  the  service  of  two  tltirds  of  one  knight's  fee,  and  tliat  the  said 
Katherine  who  was  taken  to  wife  by  William  de  Bermyngham  and  the 
said  Elizabeth  were  his  daughters  and  next  heirs,  the  age  of  the  said 
daughters  being  proved,  tlu;  king  took  the  fealties  of  the  said  William 
de  Bermyngham  and  John,  and  by  divers  writs  commanded  his  late 
escheators  to  make  a  partition  of  the  said  two  thirds  between  the  said 
heirs  and  parceners,  and  to  cause  the  said  William  de  Bermyngham 
and  Katherine  as  the  eldest  daughter  and  the  said  John  and  Ehzabetli 
to  have  seisin  of  their  respective  purparties  ;  and  it  is  found  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  deceased  held  the 
the  said  ad\'owson  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee. 


Membrane  \). 

Sept.  22.  To  the  mayor  and  baihffs  of  la  Rye.  Order  of  the  issues  of  their 
VVallingford.  bailiw  ick  of  that  town  to  pay  to  William  Passelewe  seaman  6(Z.  a  day 
according  to  the  king's  letters  patent  ;  as  on  15  Septejuber  last  of 
his  favour  and  in  aid  of  the  construction  of  certain  walls,  ditches, 
gates  and  ])alings  in  and  aroimd  the  said  town  the  king  granted  the 
mayor  and  bailiffs  and  the  commonalty  thereof  that  they  should 
have  for  three  years  as  well  all  profits  of  the  bailiwick  of  the  same 
town  as  8/.  of  yearly  rent  arising  from  the  king's  manor  of  Idenne, 
but  it  was  and  is  his  intent  that  the  said  William  should  ha\'e  the 
6rZ.  a  day  w  hich  the  king  by  letters  patent  lately  granted  him  for 
life  of  the  issues  thereof.* 

Sept.  26.  To  the  collectors  of  the  petty  custom  in  the  port  of  the  city  of 
Wallingford.  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  the  king's  merchants  of  Dubhn 
in  Ireland,  to  stay  their  demand  upon  the  said  merchants  for  payment 
of  a  custom  of  'M.  in  the  pound  to  the  king's  use  upon  their  merchandise 
in  the  said  port  ;  as  the  said  merchants  liave  shewn  the  king  that 
although  they  and  all  otlier  merchants  of  Ireland  are  of  his  own  dominion 
and  have  ever  hitherto  been  reckoned  as  natives,  the  collectors  are 
demanding  3rf.  in  the  pound  upon  their  said  merchandise  of  them  as 
of  aliens,  pretending  that  they  are  aliens,  wherefore  they  have  prayed 
for  remedy  ;  and  the  king  reckons  the  merchants  of  Dubhn  as  natives. 
Proviso  that  they  shall  pay  down  the  subsidy  of  Qd.  in  the  pound 
upon  their  merchandise  exported  from  that  port  or  imported, 
according  to  the  grant  lately  made  to  the  king. 

Oct.   12.  To  Richard  Norwych  escheator  in  Sussex.     Order  to  keep  in  the 

Westminster.  Idng's   hand   until    further    order    the    services    of    Richard    earl    of 

Arundell  and   William    Merlot  the  elder   tenants   of   the   manor   of 

Lradewatre  for  the  lands  which  they  hold  of  that  manor,    and   to 

*  This  writ  and  the  next  are  tested  by  the  guardian. 


46  EDWARD  III. 


407 


1372. 


Metnbrane  9 — cont. 


remove  the  king's  hand  and  meddle  no  fuitlier  with  tlie  manor  of 
Tratynton  and  its  members,  namely  Dudelyng  and  Dynford,  tiie 
manors  of  liradewatre  and  Alkesburn,  except  ono  piece  of  land  called 
Pechewyk  wliicli  is  parcel  of  the  manor  of  Bradewatn;  with  all 
pa.siures  and  appurtenances  to  that  land  belonging,  taken  into  the  kings 
hand  by  tiu>.  death  of  Thomas  Camoys  knight,  delivering  U)  Thomas 
son  ami  iieir  of  John  Camoys  knight  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the 
king  ha-s  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
decea-sed  at  his  death  lield  no  lamls  in  that  county  in  chief  nor  in 
service  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  for  his  life  the  said  mancjrs 
and  members  (the  piece  of  land  called  Pechewyk  excepted)  by  gift 
of  Joim  de  Ciotes  parson  of  Launsyng,  Robert  Bryghryche  parson  of 
Aldebury,  John  atte  Hide  of  Iryngham  and  Peter  Clerc  of  Hertyng 
to  the  said  Thomas  with  remainder  to  Ralph  his  son  and  heir  and  to 
the  heirs  of  the  said  Ralph's  body,  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an 
heir  to  the  said  deceased  and  the  heirs  of  liis  body,  remainder 
for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  said  Thomas  son  of  John  and 
to  the  heirs  of  his  body,  that  by  the  form  of  the  gift  the  premises 
ought  to  remain  to  the  said  Thomas  son  of  John  for  that 
the  said  Thomas  deceased  and  the  said  Ralph  are  both  dead 
without  issue,  that  the  said  earl  and  VV'illiam  are  tenants  of  the 
manor  of  Bradewatre  and  attorned  not  themselves  by  virtue  of  the 
said  feoflfment  to  the  said  John,  Robert,  John  and  Peter,  but  of  what 
parcels  [they  be  tenants]  the  jurors  know  not,  and  that  the  manor 
of  Tratynton  is  held  by  knight  service  of  the  heir  of  John  Bohun 
tenant  in  chief,  the  manor  of  Bradewatre  likewise  of  the  heir  of  John 
Moubray  tenant  in  chief,  both  within  age  and  in  the  king's  wardship, 
and  the  manor  of  Alkesburn  of  others  than  the  king  ;  and  the  king 
has  taken  the  fealty  of  the  said  Thomas  son  of  John. 

Oct.  20.  To  William  Potton.     Order  to  deliver  to  William  lord  de  Latymer 

Westminster,  or  to  his  attorney  the  manors  of  Hyneton  antl  Modeford  Terry  co. 
Somerset  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since  13  August  last 
according  to  the  king's  letters  patent,  meddling  no  further  therewith; 
as  lately  by  \irtue  of  a  bill  of  th(^  treasurer  the  king  by  lett(;rs 
patent  committed  to  the  said  Wilham  Potton  the  wardship  of  the 
said  manors,  which  are  of  the  heritage  of  Edward  son  and  heir  of 
Emehna  who  was  wife  of  Edward  de  Courtenaye  tenant  in  chief, 
and  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  said  heir's  nonage,  to 
hold  for  a  set  yearly  farm  until  his  lawful  age  ;  but  on  20  September 
la^t  for  1,000  marks  to  him  payable  at  set  terms  the  king  granted 
to  the  said  William  lord  of  Latymer  the  wardship  of  all  the  lands 
of  the  said  Emelina  in  his  hand  by  her  death  and  by  reason  of  the 
said  heir's  nonage,  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since  13  August 
last  and  all  other  things  to  that  wardship  pertaining,  to  hold  until 
the  heir's  lawful  age,  revoking  the  said  former  grant.  It  is  the  king's 
will  that  Wilham  Potton  be  discharged  thereof  toward  him  from 
13  August  last. 

Nov.  16.         To  John  Bataille  esclieator  in  Essex.     Order  to  remove  the  king's 

Westminster,  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further    t  to  the  said  John  and  Margery  1 

with  three  messuages,  one  toft,  2!)1  acres  of  land,  3  acres  of  meadow, 

5  acres  of  wood,  500  acres  of  marsh,  c    ?.  lOd.  of  rent  and  a  rent  of  1/6. 

pepper  and  lib.  cumin  a  year  in  the  towns  of  Sho])elond,  Hakewell, 


408 


CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1372,  Meirihrane  9 — cotU. 

Pritewell,  Haddole,  Rauroth  and  Uroat  VVakeryng,  tlie  moiety  of  the 
manor  of  Shopolond  with  tlie  appurtenances  in  the  town  of  Shopelond, 
the  moiety  of  a  mar.sii  called  Heghwerd  in  the  .said  town,  and  the  manor 
of  Apereton  in  the  town  of  Canewedon  the  marsh  of  Acrestlete  and  one 
toft  and  20  acres  of  land  excepted,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the 
death  of  Thomas  Staple,  delivering  any  issues  thereof  taken  to  Thomas 
Chaunceux  knight  and  Margery  wife  of  the  said  Thomas  Staple  whom 
he  has  now  taken  to  wife  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  Thomas  Staple  at  his  death  held  no  lands 
in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  by  divers  hnes 
levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his  licence  held  the  premises  jointly 
with  the  said  Margery  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  Thomas  Staple, 
namely  the  said  messuages,  toft,  lands  and  rents  and  the  moieties 
of  the  said  manor  and  marsh  by  knight  service  of  the  king  as  of  the 
honour  of  Boulogne,  the  said  manor  (with  tlie  exceptions  aforesaid) 
by  knight  service  of  the  king  as  of  the  honour  of  Reylegh,  and  divers 
other  lands  and  rent  of  others  than  the  king  ;  and  the  king  has  taken 
the  fealty  of  the  said  Thomas  Chaunceux. 

Dec.  1.  To  the  bailiffs  or  keeper  of  the  manor  of  Idenne  co.  Sussex.     Writ 

Westminster,  de  intendendo,  directing  them  to  pay  to  Eustace  Dabiichecourt  knight 
and  Elizabeth  his  wife  a  farm  of  U.  16.s.  M.  assigned  to  the  said 
Elizabeth  in  dower,  the  grant  made  by  the  king  to  the  mayor  and 
bailiffs  and  to  the  commonalty  of  the  town  of  la  Rye  notwithstanding, 
and  notwithstanding  any  command  to  them  addressed  to  the 
contrary  ;  as  on  15  February  in  the  27th  year  of  his  reign,  among  other 
lands,  farms  etc.  of  John  earl  of  Kent  tenant  in  chief  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  his  death,  with  the  assent  of  Thomas  de  Holand 
deceased  and  Joan  his  wife  sister  and  heir  of  the  said  earl,  the  king 
assigned  in  dower  to  the  said  EUzabeth  who  was  the  said  earl's  wife 
Al.  16,9.  Sd.  a  year  of  the  farm  of  Idenne  with  other  set  farms ; 
and  now  on  behalf  of  the  said  Eustace  who  has  taken  her  to  wife  and 
of  the  said  Elizabeth  the  king  has  learned  that,  by  colour  of  certain 
letters  patent  whereby  on  15  September  last  he  granted  to  the  mayor 
and  bailiffs  and  the  commonalty  of  la  Rye  for  three  years  in  aid  of  the 
construction  of  walls,  ditches,  gates  and  palings  in  and  around  the 
town  as  well  all  the  profits  of  the  bailiwick  of  the  town  as  8^.  of  yearly 
rent  arising  from  the  issues  of  the  manor  of  Iderme,  and  by  colour  of 
the  king's  a\  rit  de  intendendo  directing  them  during  that  term  to  answer 
to  the  said  mayor  and  bailiffs  and  the  said  commonalty  for  8/.  a  year, 
the  bailiff's  or  keeper  of  the  said  manor  are  refusing  to  pay  the  said 
Eustace  and  Elizabeth  the  farm  to  her  assigned  as  aforesaid,  Avherefore 
they  have  prayed  the  king  for  remedy  ;  and  at  the  time  of  the  said 
grant  in  aid  it  was  not  nor  yet  is  the  king's  intent  thereby  to  prejudice 
the  right  of  any  man. 

Membrane  8. 

Sept.  22.  To  William  Auncel  escheator  in  Wiltesir.  Order  not  to  meddle 
Wallingford.  further  with  all  the  lands  which  John  Canynges  and  Susan  his  wiie 
held  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun  now  earl  of  Hereford,  late  within  age  and 
in  the  king's  Avardship,  and  which  are  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
their  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  Thomas  their  son  and  heir  ; 
as  the  said  John  and  Susan  Avere  tenants  by  knight  service  of  the 
said  earl,  and  the  said  Thomas  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator  ; 


46    EDWARD    III. 


409 


1372.  Mtmbrafie   8 — coiU. 

and  on  5  May  in  the  3()tli  year  of  the  reign  the  king  took  the;  homage 
ami  fealty  of  the  earl,  and  eoininamU'd  livery  to  be  giv(Mi  him  as  well 
of  the  lands  held  by  William  de  Boiuui  earl  of  Xorhamj)lon  his  fatiicr 
as  of  those  held  by  Humphroy  de  J3ohun  earl  of  Hereford  liis  uncle.* 

Sept.  23.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne. 
Walhnglord.  Ortler  under  pain  of  forfeiture  not  to  suffer  any  wi)ol,  hides  or  wool- 
fells  to  pass  in  that  port  to  any  foreign  i)arts  on  the  feast  oi  Michaelmas 
ne.xt  nor  from  that  feast  until  further  order  under  pain  of  the 
forfeiture  thereof  whether  taken  over  by  natives  or  aliens  ;  as  for 
particular  causes  affecting  the  king  and  tlie  estate  of  the  realm  tlu^ 
king  has  made  ortler  that  from  that  date  until  further  order  none  shall 
be  taken  over  under  pain  of  forfeiture.  Pioviso  that  all  merchants 
may  after  the  said  feast  take  and  carry  over  to  the  staple  of  Calais, 
or  to  other  parts  if  they  have  licence  so  to  do,  wool,  hides  and  wool- 
fells  cockcted  and  customed  in  that  port  before  the  said  feast,  this 
command  notwithstanding. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull. 

The  collectors  of  customs  in  the  poit  of  St.  Botolph. 

The  collectois  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Great  Jernemuth. 

The  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Gippewic. 

The  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  London. 

The  collectois  of  customs  in  the  port  of  t^uenesburgh. 

The  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Cieestre. 

The  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Suthampton. 

The  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of   b^xeter. 

The  collectors  of  customs  in  the  ]K)rt  of   Bristol. 

The  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Melcombe. 

Sept.  23.  To  Edmund  de  Burton  escheator  in  Salop.  Order  to  cause  Humphrey 
VVallingford.  de  liohun  now  earl  of  Hereford  to  have  seisin  of  one  acre  of  land 
witliin  the  manor  of  Ideshale  called  Bernelu)udesacre  and  of  the 
advowson  of  Ideshale  church  w  hich  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  William  earl  of  Noriiampton  his  father,  sa\ing  to  the  king  tlie 
issues  taken  of  the  said  acre  since  the  late  earls  death  ;  as  it  is  found 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  late  earl  held  tiie 
premises  in  chief  by  kniglit  service,  and  that  the  said  Humplircy 
his  son  is  his  next  heir  and  of  full  age  ;  and  on  5  May  in  the  3Gth 
year  of  the  reign  the  age  of  the  said  Hum]jhrey  was  ijroved,  and  the 
king  took  his  homage  and  fealty,  and  commanded  livery  to  be  given 
him  of  his  said  father's  lands. 

Sept.  28.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  the  city  of  London. 
VVallingford.  Order  to  sutfer  John  Sandre,  Luke  Aldebandyne,  (Gregory  de  Eete, 
Albert  Villanus,  Dynus  Perusyne,  Lewis  Andreo,  Bernard  George, 
Henry  Janoby,  Copyn  Bombyne,  Nicholas  Russell  and  Abrache 
Dabrache  jointly  and  severally  without  let  to  lade  in  ships  in  tiiat 
port  1,200  sacks  of  wool  and  on  the  feast  of  Michaelmas,  the  morrow 
thereof  and  thereafter  whensoever  they  will  to  take  the  same  over 
sea  w hither  they  will  without  taking  of  any  of  them  custom,  subsidy 
or  other  duty  to  the  kings  use  by  reason  of  thc^  passage  thereof,  any 
proliibition     by    the    king    heretofore    made    by    writs    or    otherwise 

*  Tested  by  the  giuudiaii,  as  ai-e  all  the  writs  upon  this  membrane.. 


410 


CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1872. 


Membrane.    8 — cotU. 


notwitlistaiuling  ;  as  tliey  have  before  tliis  date  paid  the  kint;  the 
customs,  siib.si(he.s  and  duties  upon  tlic  said  wool  to  tlie  end  that 
they  may  take  the  same  to  foreign  parts.  Jiy  p.s.  [2*.)347.| 

Vacated,  because  yiven  up  and  entered  otkerwine  uijon  the  Fine  Roll 
for  this  year. 

The  foll»»\ving  have  the  like  writs  : 

Henry  Bergh'  for  50  sacks.  By  p.s.  [20346.] 

John  Crede  for  200  sacks.  By  p.s.  [20345.] 


Membrane  7. 

Nov.  23.  To  the  baililis  of  the  city  of  Canterbury  for  the  time  being.  Writ 
Westminster,  de  inlcndendu,  directing  them  of  the  farm  of  the  said  city  to  pay  every 
year  to  Robert  Grubbe  the  fifth  part  of  30/.  a  year  at  Easter  and 
jNlichaelmas  and  the  arrears  thereof  since  the  death  of  Margaret  his 
wife,  to  hold  by  the  courtesy  of  England  according  to  the  king's  grant, 
taking  his  acquittance  term  by  term  ;  as  on  1  October  in  the  20th 
year  of  liis  reign,  in  recompense  for  the  bailiwick  of  the  town  of 
Sandevic  lately  granted  by  the  king  to  John  son  of  William  Cundy 
of  Sandewic  and  to  his  heirs  and  at  the  kings  command  surrendered 
into  the  kings  hands  by  William  son  and  heir  of  the  said  John  after  his 
father's  death,  the  king  granted  to  the  said  William  son  of  John  30Z. 
yearly  to  be  taken  of  the  farm  of  tlie  said  city  by  the  hands  of  the 
baihflfs  and  citizens,  10/.  at  Easter  and  20/.  at  Michaelmas,  and  on 
28  Novembei'  in  the  42nd  year  of  his  reign  by  \vrit  ordered  the  then 
baililis  of  the  farm  of  the  city  to  pay  30/.  a  year  as  aforesaid  to 
Idonea  and  Constance  sisters  and  heirs  of  the  said  William  son  of 
iJohn,  Robert  Grubbe  wiio  took  to  wife  Margaret  his  third  sister, 
William  Makenliad  who  took  to  wife  Margery  the  fourth  sister,  and 
the  next  friend  of  Thomas  Wathenden  son  of  Ahce  the  fifth  sister  and 
heir  ;  and  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  at  the  kings  command  by 
Richard  de  Norwich  escheator  in  Kent  after  the  death  of  the  said 
Margaret,  that  at  her  death  she  lield  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief 
in  her  demesne;  as  of  fee,  but  that  the  said  Robert  and  she  in  her 
right  took  yearly  of  the  farm  of  the  said  city  a  fifth  part  of  the  said 
30/.,  and  had  issue  Agnes  and  Alice  their  daugliters,  and  that  by 
reason  of  such  issue  the  said  Robert  ought  to  hold  that  fifth  part 
by  the  courtesy  of  England. 
Et  erat  patens. 


Nov.  18. 
Westminster. 


To  John  de  Horteslee  of  Letton  escheator  in  Worcestershire.  Order 
to  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the 
bailiwick  of  the  liberty  of  Oswoldeslowe,  delivering  to  Richard 
Bromwych  any  issues  thereof  taken  since  it  was  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  ;  as  lately  upon  the  finding  of  an  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator  of  his  office,  that  without  the  Icing" s  licence  John  Thoiesby 
late  bishop  of  Worcester  granted  the  said  bailiw  ick  to  the  said  Richard 
for  life,  and  that  the  same  is  of  the  foundation  of  King  Edgar  the  king's 
forefather,  the  escheator  took  the  same  into  the  king's  hand  for  that 
cause,  wherefore  the  said  Richard  has  prayed  for  remedy  ;  and  the 
inquisition  being  \iewed  and  (.'xamined  before  the  king  and  council, 
it  seems  to  the  council  that  the  said  cause  is  insufficient. 


Nov.  20.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Westmorland  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Thomas  de  Redmane,  \vho  is  insufficiently  qualitied. 


46   EDWARD   III. 


411 


1372.  Mciiihraihc   7 — ojiU. 

Nov.  23.  To  Tlunuas  Sewale  csclioator  in  Caiubridgosliiiv.  (Jiilur,  according 
VVestiiiiiibter.  to  tlic  form  of  a  scIuhIuIc  enclosed,  to  take  tlio  fealty  of  Jcjim  Brewes 
knight  \nIio  lias  taken  to  uit\'  Agnes  wife  of  Richard  son  of  John 
Frcville  knight,  and  to  deliver  to  the  said  John  Brewos  and  Agnes 
the  manor  of  C'axton  taken  into  the  king's  hand  hy  the  diuitli  of  the 
said  John  Freville  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king 
havS  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator.'that  the  said  John 
Freville  at  his  tleath  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  nor  of  others 
in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  manor  for  life  of  the  gift  of 
John  Silverle  and  others  made  with  the  king's  licence,  with  remainder 
to  the  saitl  Richard  (now  deceased)  and  Agnes  and  to  the  heirs  of 
their  bodies,  and  that  the  same  is  held  in  chief  by  knight  service. 

Nov.  30.  To  Richard  de  Ravenser  keeper  of  the  hanaper  of  chancery.  Order 
Westminster,  without  delay  to  deli\er  to  Gregory  archbishop  of  Tuam  and  Thomas 
bishop  of  Eltin  in  Ireland  divers  writs  of  the  king  in  his  custody 
conunanding  livery  to  be  given  them  of  the  temporalities  of  the  said 
archbishopric  and  bishopric  respectively  quit  of  tlu;  fees  for  the  king's 
seal  to  him  pertaining  ;  as  the  said  archbishop  and  bishop  while 
coming  to  England  from  the  court  of  Rome  were  in  foreign  parts 
robbed  of  their  money  and  goods,  as  the  king  is  infoiiued  of  a  surety, 
and  of  his  favour  he  has  pardoned  them  the  said  fees. 

Membrane  0. 

Oct.  20.  To  the  tri'asurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exche({uer.     Order  to  stay 

VVestiuinater.  until  the  ((uinzaine  of  8t.  ililary  ne.\t  their  demand  made  by  exchequer 
sunuuons  upon  Agnes  who  was  wife  of  John  Mautravers  the  elder 
and  is  his  executrix  to  answer  to  the  king  and  account  for  the  issues 
of  the  manor  of  Rathgell  co.  Lymerik,  if  demanded  to  the  king's  u.se 
for  the  cause  hereinafter  mentionetl  and  for  none  other,  in  order  that 
in  the  mean  time  being  further  certilied  touching  a  process  thereupon 
the  king  may  do  what  by  the  law  and  custom  of  the  realm  ought  to 
be  done  for  her  discharge  ;  as  lately  upon  the  finding  of  an  inquisition 
etc.  {as  above,  p.  231). 

T(.)  the  chancellor  of  Irelaiul,  the  treasurer  and  tiie  barons  of  the 
excheipier,  and  the  justice  appointed  to  hold  pleas  which  follow 
the  justiciary  there.  Order  to  search  the  rolls  and  memoranda  as 
well  of  the  chanceiy  and  treasury  of  Ireland  as  of  pleas  there  had 
before  the  king,  ancl  under  the  seal  used  in  Ireland  to  ceilify  in  the 
chancery  of  England  the  proctjss  for  li\ery  of  the  manor  of  Rathgell 
out  of  the  kings  hands  and  w  hat  they  shall  find  concerning  the  same, 
and  concerning  all  circumstances  afl'ecting  the  said  manor  ;  as  lately 
upon  the  finding  etc.  {an  above)  ;  and  the  king  would  be  more  fully 
certified  touching  the  premises. 

Nov.  8.  To  Thomas  Sewale  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire.     Order  to   take 

Westniiuster.  the  fealty  of  Ellen  w  ife  of  John  Freville  knight  according  to  the  form 
of  a  schedule  enclosed,  ami  to  deliver  to  her  the  manor  and  advowson 
of  Littl(!  iShelford  taken  into  the  kings  haml  by  hei-  husbands  death, 
with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John  at  his  death  held  no  lands 
in  that  coimty  in  chief  nor  of  others  in  his  demesne  as  (jf  fee,  but  held 
jointly   with  the  said  Ellen  the  manor  and  advowson  aforesaid^  which 


412  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 

1372.  Membrane   (J — cont. 

aw  lu'ld  in  cliiuf  by  kniglit  scivice,  by  gift  and  feolfnient  of  .John  de 
Baineton  parson  of  Little  Shelfoid  to  tlieni  made  by  line  levied  in 
the  king's  court  with  hi«  licence. 

Nov.  10.  To  Thomas  Sovvale  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire.  Order  to  take 
Westminster,  of  Ellen  who  was  wife  of  John  Ereville  knight  tenant  in  eiiief  an  oath 
that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign  her 
dower  of  the  lands  of  her  said  husband  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
his  death,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in 
chancery. 

Nov.  25.  To  Thomas  Caus  of  Hokham  escheator  in  Norffolk  and  Suffolk. 
Westminster.  Order  to  cause  John  son  of  Walter  son  of  John  de  Norwico  knight 
tenant  in  chief  to  have  seisin  of  the  lands  of  John  de  Norwico  and 
of  Roger  de  Norw  ico  knight  not  a  tenant  of  the  king,  w  Inch  are  in  the 
king's  hand  by  their  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said 
heir  ;  as  the  said  John  son  of  VV^alter  son  of  John,  being  cousin  and 
heir  as  w  ell  of  his  said  grandfather  as  of  the  said  Roger,  has  proved 
his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  liis  homage 
and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [29449.] 

Nov.  25.  To  Richard  Norwych  escheator  in  Middlesex.  Order  to  cause  John 
Westminster.  Keuermond  to  have  seisin  of  a  fourth  part  of  the  office  of  crier  in  the 
Coinnion  Bench  taken  into  the  kings  hand  by  death  of  John  Houel  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
by  grant  of  Christiana  daugiiter  of  William  Gaunt  of  Bynbroke,  John 
de  Croxston  and  Maud  his  wife  and  Beatrice  daughter  of  the  said 
William  Gaunt  by  line  levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his  licence  the 
said  John  Houel  at  his  death  held  of  the  king  for  hfe  the  fourth 
part  aforesaid  w  hicli  is  parcel  of  the  ofhce  of  usher  of  the  exchequer, 
w'lih.  reversion  to  the  said  John  Keuermond  ;  and  the  king  has  taken 
his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [2945L] 

To  Richard  Norwych  escheator  in  Kent.  Order  to  take  of  Agnes, 
who  was  wife  of  Edmund  de  Staplegate  tenant  in  chief  an  oath  that 
she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign  her  dower 
of  the  manor  of  Bilsyngton  which  is  held  in  chief,  and  of  seven  mes- 
suages, one  grange  and  15  acres  of  land  in  Canterbury  and  the  suburb 
thereof  held  of  the  king  as  in  burgage  according  to  the  use  and  custom 
of  'gavelkynde,'  which  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  her  said 
husband's  death,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled 
in  chancery. 

Oct.  20.  To  Nicholas  Potyn  searcher  of  the  king's  foiieitures  in  the  port 

Westminster,  of  the  city  of  London.  Order  to  take  of  Heyn  Andreuson  and 
Baldwin  Claisson  masters  of  certain  ships  of  Holand  and  Seland 
[security]  for  the  residue  of  the  ships  by  the  said  searcher  arrested, 
that  before  the  Purification  next  they  shall  at  that  port  content  the 
king  of  the  moneys  by  him  paid  as  hereinafter  mentioned,  and  to 
dearrest  as  well  the  shi])  of  William  van  Orde  as  the  three  other  ships 
so  arrested,  suffering  them  freely  without  let  to  pass  from  the  said 
port  whither  they  will,  notwithstanding  the  king's  late  command 
to  arrest  and  safe  keep  imdcr  arrest  until  further  order  the  four  ships  of 
Holand  and  Seland  w  hereof  the  said  HejTi,  William  and  Baldwin  are 


46   EDWARD   III.  413 


1372.  Mpmhrane   0 — covf. 

severally  masters,  which  were  lately  retained  for  the  king's  passage  and 
sailed  not  on  his  service  although  he  caused  great  sums  of  money  to 
be  paid  for  the  wages  thereof  ;  as  James  Lyons  tlie  king's  scrjeant  at 
arms  has  mainperned  before  the  chancellor  and  trcasunu-  for  William 
van  Orde  that  before  the  said  feast  he  shall  truly  account  with  the 
king  for  the  moneys  paid  for  wages  of  that  ship,  and  contcsnt  him  of 
such  as  by  that  account  shall  be  duo. 

Nov.  10.         To  John  Waskham  escheator  in  Devon.     Order  to  assign  to  Joan 
Westminster,  who  was  wife  of  John  Speke  dower  of  her  said  hus])and's  lands  for 
particular  causes  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  sending  th«'  assignment 
under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

Membrane  5. 

Oct.  23.  To  John  Cavendissh  and  Thomas  de  Ingelby  justices  appointed 

Westminster,  to  hold  pleas  before  the  king.  Order  by  writ  of  nisi  prius  to  cause 
the  inquisition  which  is  to  be  taken  it  is  said  between  the  king  and  the 
men  of  the  town  of  Lcnne  Episcopi  concerning  the  repair,  building  or 
maintenance  of  the  bridge  called  Southbrigge  to  be  taken  before  them 
or  one  of  them,  or  before  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Bench. 

To  the  same.  Order  by  writ  of  nisi  prius  to  cause  the  inquisition 
which  is  to  be  taken  it  is  said  between  the  king  and  the  men  of  the 
township  of  Lenne  Episcopi  of  the  great  guild  for  that  they  are 
embracing  certain  tiafhc  of  millstones  and  of  marble  for  altars  and  grave- 
stones so  often  as  the  same  come  to  that  town,  selling  them  by  two  men 
of  the  guild  called  '  skyveyns  '  without  that  that  any  other  man  may 
freely  ply  such  traffic,  and  moreover  to  the  oppression  of  the  people 
setting  a  fixed  price  upon  the  sale  thereof  \\ithin  which  no  stone  may 
be  bought,  to  be  taken  before  them  the  said  justices  or  one  of  them. 

To  the  same.  Order  by  writ  of  nisi  prius  to  cause  the  inquisition 
which  is  to  be  taken  it  is  said  between  the  king  and  the  abbot  of 
Derham  for  that  the  said  abbot  has  without  obtaining  the  Icing's  licence 
appropriated  to  himself  48  acres  of  land  at  Cleye  by  S\\  afhani  INIarket 
with  liberty  of  one  fold,  and  three  messuages  and  40  acres  of  land  at 
Oxeburgh,  to  be  taken  before  them  or  one  of  them  or  before  one  of 
the  justices  of  the  Bench. 

Oct.  20.  To  the  sheriflf  of  Warrewyk.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  John  Bardulf,  who  is  insufficiently  cjualified. 

Nov.  3.  To  the  sheriff  of  Wiltesir.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Robert  Sireman,  who  is  dead. 

Oct.  27.  To  John  Cavendissh  and  Thomas  de  Ingelby  justices  appointed  to 

Westminster,  hold  pleas  before  the  king.  Order  by  writ  of  nisi  prins  to  cause  the 
inquisition  whereupon  Nicholas  Helwys  of  Selby  has  put  himself, 
being  indicted  for  the  theft  of  an  ox  of  Robert  de  Routh  price  13s.  4rf., 
to  be  taken  before  them  or  one  of  theni,  one  of  the  justices  of  the 
Bench,  or  before  the  justices  of  assize. 

To  the  same.  Order  by  writ  of  nisi  prius  to  cause  the  inquisition 
whereupon  John  Bakere  '  Jonesservant  of  Chiltenham  '  of  Cirencestre 


414 


CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


137*2.  Mrmbranp   /) — ronf. 

Iia.s  |)nt  liiinscif  it  is  said  in  a  f-aiisc  against  him  at  suit  of  the  king 
(•onci'iniiig  tiic  <hath  (»t  Williain  .Muicwaid,  t(t  be  taken  before  them 
or  one  of  tliem,  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Bench,  or  before  the  ju.stices 
of  assize, 

Oct.  2C.  To  the  shciiff  of  Cmnberhmd.     OhUt  to  cau.se  three  verderers  in 

Westmineter.  the  forest  of  liigeluode  to  be  eh'cted  instead  of  John  de  Denton,  John 

de  hv  More  and  .\dani  de   Bh'ucowe,  who  are  insutticicntiy  ijuahfied 

as  the  king  is  infoimed  by  ci'edibh'  persons,  wlierefore  lie  has  removed 

them. 

Nov.  5.  Totlie  mayor  and  baihffs  of  the  town  of  Sandewic  and  the  collectors  of 

Westminster,  customs  and  sub.sidies  in  the  port  thereof.  Older  to  stay  altogether  their 
demand  made  u))on  Nicholas  Michel  of  N'eiiise  and  other  merchants 
of  Lumbardy  for  payment  of  4(/.  up(jn  every  bale  of  wool  and  other 
merchandise  laded  in  a  great  ship  of  Venise  called  a  '  tarit,'  Peter 
Coldemcrc  owner  {i)fitrnnvs),  sufTering  the  .said  merchant.s  to  l)e  thereof 
quit,  dearresting  any  bales  or  merchandise^  by  them  arrested  for  that 
cause,  and  by  mainprise  of  Thomas  Sarland  merchant  of  Lukes  suffering 
the  said  nuMchants  to  pass  to  Lumbaidy  with  the  same,  and  order  to 
certify  in  chancery  without  delay  the  number  of  the  goods  and  mer- 
chandise laded  in  the  said  ship  and  not  customed  ;  as  lately  the  king 
by  letters  patent  gave  licence  to  the  said  Nicholas  and  other  merchants 
to  bring  the  .said  ship  to  England,  and  by  themselves,  their  attorneys 
or  servants  to  lade  the  same  at  Sandewic  with  wool,  fells,  cloths 
and  other  merchandise  of  England  to  the  amount  of  500  sacks  and  take 
both  .ship  and  goods  to  Lumbardy,  paying  the  customs,  subsidies 
and  other  duties  \\hich  they  would  pay  as  well  this  side  the  .sea  as 
at  Calais  if  the  same  were  taken*  to  the  staple  of  Calais  ;  and  now-  on 
behalf  of  the  said  merchants  the  king  is  informed  tliat,  although  in 
the  city  of  London  they  paid  customs,  subsidies  and  duties  upon 
certain  goods  which  they  have  so  laded  by  virtue  of  the  said  licence, 
the  said  bailiffs  and  collectors  have  arrested  and  are  detaining  certain 
of  those  goods  under  arrest  for  a  second  payment  of  4r7.  upon  every 
bale  of  wool  and  other  merchandise  in  the  said  ship,  wherefore  they 
have  prayed  for  remedy  ;  and  the  said  Thomas  appearing  in  person 
in  chancery  in  the  said  city  has  mainpemed  to  content  the  king  and 
others  whatsoever  of  whatsoever  pertains  to  them  of  such  custom, 
subsidy  and  duties.  Bv  C. 


Oct.  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  Stafford.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Thomas  de  Pype,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Nov.  16.  To  Edmund  Che^^le  escheator  in  Somerset.  Order  to  remove  the 
Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage,  two  carucates 
of  land  and  100.9.  of  rent  in  Tymbersbergh,  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  death  of  John  Lavyngton,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  the  said  John  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief 
in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  servace,  but  held  the  premises  of  others 
than  the  king. 

Nov.  20.         To  Edmund  de  Burton  escheator  in  Salop.     Order  to  remove  the 
Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  garden,  two  carucates 


46   EDWARD   III.  415 


1372.  Membrane  /j — cont. 

of  land,  4  acres  of  mea/Iow,  one  several  pa,sture  and  a  piere  of  land 
called  Stonton  in  Hridwyk  wliieli  is  panel  of  tlic  jnanor  of  Ideshale, 
H,s'.  of  rent  at  Bridwyk  and  Castcl  wiHiin  the  said  iiianoi',  and  a  several 
wood  eontaining  10  acies  of  wood  in  liridwyk,  icstoring  to  J(»iui 
Olyver  and  Eleanor  his  wife  and  William  Kussell  the  younger  and 
Tsolda  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  for  particular  causes 
the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause 
wherefore  the  lands  of  Thomas  son  of  Thomas 'de  Leversete  in 
Bridwyk  were  by  him  taken  into  the:  kings  hand,  and  he  certiliinl 
that  the  prcMuises  were  seized  into  the  king's  liand  for  that  he  found 
by  incpiisition,  before  him  taken  of  his  otHce,  that  the  said  Thomas 
the  son  died  thereof  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  that  the  said  manor 
is  held  in  chief  by  knight  service,  and  that  after  the  death  of  Thouias 
the  son  the  said  John  and  lOleauor,  Williaui  and  Isolda,  th(\v  being 
his  sisters  and  heirs,  without  the  king's  licence  intruded  thereupon  ; 
and  lately  bv  divers  writs  the  kinjr  commanded  William  Hanastn^  of 
Yorton  late  escheator  to  take  tlie  fealties  of  the  said  John  and  the 
said  William  son  of  William,  and  to  cause  the  said  John  and  Eleanor, 
William  son  of  William  and  Isolda  to  have  seisin  as  well  of  two  thirds 
of  the  premises  which  came  to  the  king's  hands  after  the  death  of 
Thomas  de  Leversete  tenant  in  chief  by  reasf)n  of  the  nonage  of  the 
said  Thomas  his  son  and  heir,  who  died  within  age  in  the  king's 
wardship,  as  of  one  third  of  the  same  held  in  dower  by  Joan  (then 
deceased)  who  was  wife  of  the  said  Thomas  the  father. 

Membrane  4. 

Oct.  26.  To  Thomas  Tans  of  Hokham  escheator  in  Suffolk.     Order  not  to 

Westminster,  meddle  further  with  a  lent  of  20  marks  to  be  taken  yearly  at  Easter 
and  St.  Peter's  Chains  by  even  portions  of  the  manor  of  Denardeston, 
suffering  Thomas  Grev  son  of  Thomas  Grey  knight  hcnceforwaid  to 
take  and  have  the  same,  and  delivering  to  him  whatsoever  has  thereof 
been  taken  since  the  death  of  Roger  (irey  knight  tcmant  in  chief  ;  as 
lately  it  was  found  by  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command  by 
John  de  Rokewode  then  escheator,  that  long  before  his  death  the  said 
Roger  made  a  feoffment  of  his  said  manor  to  William  Baude  knight 
the  younger,  Ralph  Walsham  and  others  and  their  heirs  under  a  con- 
dition that,  whereas  he  was  about  to  go  over  sea,  if  at  any  time  he 
should  come  again  to  England  he  might  again  enter  the  same,  that 
he  came  again  to  England  and  again  did  enter  the  said  manor,  taking 
the  issues  and  profits  thereof  all  his  life,  and  so  died  thereof  seised, 
that  Thomas  Grey  knight  his  father  by  writing  granted  the  rent 
aforesaid  to  the  said  Thomas  his  son  for  life,  and  that  the  said  manor 
is  nothing  worth  over  and  above  that  rent  ;  and  after  at  the  suit  of 
the  said  Thomas  the  son,  averring  that  his  said  father  was  seised  of 
the  said  manor  in  fee  simple  and  by  writing  produced,  bearing  date 
Friday  after  the  Nativity  of  the  Virgin  in  the  38th  year  of  the  reign, 
granted  him  thereof  a  yearly  rent  of  40/.  for  his  life,  and  praying 
liverj^  thereof  during  the  nonage  of  the  heir,  as  the  said  manor  is 
seized  into  the  king's  land  by  the  said  Roger's  death  and  by  reason  of 
the  nonage  of  his  heir,  the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  make  in- 
quisition touching  the  premises  and  all  circumstances  affecting  the 
same,  and  to  send  stich  inquisition  into  chancery  imder  his  seal  and 
the  seals  of  those  by  whom  it  was  made  ;  and  it  is  found  by  incpiisition 
taken  and  returned  accordingly  that  the  said  Thomas  the  father  being 


416 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1.372.  Membrane  4 — corU. 

of  full  age  and  sound  memory  and  out  of  prison  was  seised  of  the  said 
manor  in  fee  simple  and  not  in  tail,  that  by  writing  he  granted  to 
Thomas  his  son  tlu^  said  rent  of  40/.  to  he  thereof  taken  at  Michaelmas 
and  Easter  ])y  evc^n  })ortions,  that  tlie  manoi'  is  not  held  of  the  king 
but  of  the  earl  of  Stafford  as  of  tlie  honour  of  Ohmcester,  service 
unknown,  that  tlu^  said  grant  was  made  in  good  faith  and  not  by 
collusion,  that  Thomas  the  son  was  in  his  father's  life  time  seised  of  the 
said  20  marks  a  year  four  years  and  more  taking  the  same  at  the  said 
terms,  and  not  of  the  said  40/.,  and  continued  his  seisin  until 
Michaelmas  in  the  45th  year  of  the  reign,  that  the  said  manor 
is  nothing  worth  over  and  above  20  marks,  and  that  the  said  Thomas 
the  son  never  released  his  estate  therein  ;  and  John  d(^  Cavendissh 
the  cliief  justice  has  witnessed  before  the  king  in  chancery  that  the 
said  grant  was  made  in  good  faith,  and  that  the  said  Thomas  the  son 
after  the  grant  to  him  made  was  seised  of  the  rent  of  20  marks  in 
the  lifetime  of  his  fatliei-  four  years,  and  the  king's  Serjeants  being 
vouched  to  tliat  end  said  nouglit  to  the  purpose  wherefore  he  should 
not  have  restitution  of  the  said  rent  of  20  marks.  It  is  the  king's 
will  that  the  escheator  be  thereof  discharged  toward  him. 

Dec.  2.  To  Nicholas  Potyn  searcher  of  the  king's  forfeitures  in  the  port  of 

Westminster,  the  city  of  London.  Order  to  deliver  of  the  king's  favour  to  Arnald 
van  Intruthyn  certain  cups  of  mazer  and  other  merchandise  of 
Flanders  of  no  great  value  to  make  his  advantage  thereof,  the  customs 
and  subsidies  thereupon  due  being  first  paid  ;  as  the  said  Arnald 
brouglit  the  same  to  the  city  of  London,  and  negligently  but  not  to 
cheat  the  king  of  the  custom  to  him  pertaining  put  them  ashore  before 
they  were  customed,  and  they  were  for  that  cause  as  he  says  arrested  by 
the  searcher,  therefore  he  has  prayed  the  king  for  remedy  ;  and  it  is 
witnessed  before  the  council  that  they  were  so  put  ashore  merely  by 
negligence  of  the  said  Arnald.  It  is  the  king's  will  that  the  searcher 
be  thereof  discharged  toward  him.  By  C. 

Dec.  11.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton  to  cause  a  verderer  in  the  forest 

Westminster,  of  Bokholte  to  be  elected  instead  of  Nicholas  Pershede,  who  is  dead. 

Dec.  14.  To  Nicholas  Heryng  escheator  in  Kent  (sic).  Order  to  take  into 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand  and  safe  keep  until  further  order  two  thirds  of  the 
manor  of  Pomfret,  so  as  to  answer  at  the  exchequer  for  the  issues 
thereof  arising  since  16  October  last  and  henceforward  ;  as  on 
12  October  in  the  39th  year  of  his  reign  of  his  favour  and  for  the  good 
service  of  Richard  de  Sutton  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  to  the 
said  Richard  the  wardship  of  two  thirds  of  the  manor  of  Pomfret  co. 
Middlesex  which  were  of  Thomas  Vaghan  knight  tenant  in  chief  and  in 
the  king's  hands  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  [of  the  heir]  of 
the  said  Thomas,  and  were  by  the  king's  letters  patent  under  the 
exchequer  seal  demised  to  farm  for  535.  4c/.  yearly  payable  at  the 
excliecjuer,  to  hold  witli  all  things  thereto  belonging  until  the  lawful 
age  of  the  said  heir,  rendering  for  that  wardship  53s.  4(/.  a  year  at  the 
exchequer  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions;  and  on 
16  October  last  Katherine  who  was  Adfe  of  the  said  Richard  and  is 
his  executrix,  and  occupied  that  wardship  since  his  death,  by  Robert 
de  Faryngton  and  William  de  Slene  her  attorneys  surrendered  the 
said  wardship  into  the  king's  hands,  giving  up  in  chancery  the  said 
letters  patent,  and  praying  to  be  discharged  of  her  said  farm. 


46  EDWAKU   III. 


417 


1372. 


Membrane  3. 


Oct.  30.  To    Walter   de    Kelby    late    escheator  in   Lincoln.shire.     Order,    if 

Westminster,  the  goods  and  tliattels  of  Robert  .son  of  John  de  Milnthorp  of  Lin- 
colnsliire  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  for  the  cause  hereinafter 
mentioned  and  for  none  other,  to  make  him  full  restitution  thereof  ; 
as  the  prior  of  8t.  Andrew  Norhampton  lately  impleaded  Robert  do 
Milthrop  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  render  account  for  the 
time  he  was  the  said  prior's  bailiff  and  receiver  in  8totesbury,  and 
the  said  defendant  was  put  in  exigents  to  be  outlawed  in  Norhampton- 
shire  for  that  he  eame  not  before  the  said  justices  to  answer  the  said 
prior,  and  was  after  outlawed  as  appears  by  the  record  and  process 
of  outlawiy  sent  into  chancery  at  the  king's  command ;  and  learning 
by  plaint  of  the  said  Robert  son  of  John  that  the  said  late  escheator 
has  taken  liis  goods  and  chattels  into  the  king's  hand  and  is  yet 
detaining  the  same  by  virtue  of  a  writ  to  him  addres.sed  for  seizure  of 
the  goods  and  chattels  of  Robert  de  Milthrop  an  outlaw,  although  he 
the  said  Robert  son  of  John  was  not  bailifif  of  the  said  prior,  is  not 
outlawed,  and  had  never  his  abode  in  the  said  county,  in  order  to  aid 
him  the  king  ordered  John  Karnels  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire  to 
make  inquisition  touching  the  premises  ;  and  it  is  found  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  virtue  of  the  king's  command  and  shewn  in  chancery,  that 
the  said  Robert  son  of  John  was  never  bailiff  nor  receiver  of  the  said 
prior,  was  not  outlawed  at  his  suit,  and  had  never  his  abode  in 
Norhamptonshire.  It  is  the  king's  will  that  the  said  late  escheator 
be  thereof  discharged  toward  him. 


Nov.  30. 
Westminster. 


1373. 

Jan.  20. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  2. 

To  William  Marmyon.  Order  not  to  meddle  henceforward  in  aught 
which  concerns  the  oflfice  of  guardian  of  the  peace  and  justice  of  oyer 
and  terminer  in  the  parts  of  Kesteven  co.  Lincoln,  although  lately 
by  letters  patent  the  king  appointed  him  one  of  the  guardians  and 
justices  there  ;    as  the  king  has  now  discharged  him  of  that  office. 

To  John  de  Broghton  escheator  in  Bedfordshire.  Order  to  make 
inquisition  whether  100  acres  of  land,  3  acres  of  meadow  and  6  acres 
of  pasture  in  la  Begerye,  held  by  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  John  son 
of  William  son  of  Richard  de  Wyboldeston  waived  for  felony  it  is 
said,  have  been  in  the  king's  hand  a  year  and  a  day  or  no,  of  Avhom 
the  said  Elizabeth  held  the  same,  how  and  by  what  service,  who  now 
holds  the  premises,  who  had  the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste 
thereof  and  ought  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  same,  and  whether 
the  said  Elizabeth  is  yet  alive  or  no,  sending  the  inquisition  without 
delay  under  his  seal  and  the  seals  of  them  by  whom  it  was  taken. 


Jan.  20.  To  the  baihffs  of  the  town  of  Repyndon.     Order  to  bring  before  the 

Westminster,  king  in  the  octaves  of  the  Purification,  and  deliver  to  the  justices 
appointed  to  hold  pleas  before  the  king  to  stand  to  right  touching 
that  felony,  Robert  Darnall  of  Brvnumesford  whom  the  said  bailiffs 
have  newly  taken  and  imprisoned  at  Repyndon  at  the  suit  of  certain 
friends  of  Richard  Tagge  of  Catclif,  slain  at  Hanew  orthstele,  touching 
the  commission  of  that  felony,  and  if  there  be  any  cause  wherefore  they 
ought  not  so  to  do,  to  certify  the  same  in  chancery,  sending  again  this 
writ ;  as  the  said  Robert  is  before  the  coroners  of  the  Westrithing  in 
Yorkshire  indicted  for  the  death  of  the  said  Richard,  as  appears  by 
the  tenor  of  the  indictment  sent  into  chancery  at  the  king's  command. 

OR  27 


418  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  2 — cont. 

Jan.  22.  To  the  .sheriff  of  Essex.     Order  to  cau.se  John  Fifhide  to  have  seisin 

U'estriunater.  of  a  messuage  and  half  an  aero  of  land  in  Little  VVarlee  held  by  John 
Sniert  outhiwed  foi-  feh)ny  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king  has  hiarned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  tlie  slieritt",  that  the  premi.se8  have  been  in  his 
liand  a  year  and  a  day  and  are  ycit  in  his  liand,  that  John  SuK^rt  held 
them  of  the  said  Jolin  de  Fifhide,  and  that  John  Batailh;  late  eseheator 
had  the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste  thereof,  and  ought  to  answer 
to  the  king  for  the  same. 

Membrane  I. 

Jan  6.  To  John  de  Perton  knight  eseheator  in  Salop  and  Staffordshire 

Sheen.  and  in  the  march  of  Wales  adjacent  to  Salop.  Order  to  cause  Edmund 
son  and  heir  of  Roger  de  Mortuo  Mari  earl  of  March  tenant  in  chief 
to  have  sei.sin  of  his  said  father's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  said  Edmund's  nonage  ;  as  the  king 
has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty,  and  has  of  his  favour  rendered  him 
as  well  the  lands  held  by  his  father  in  chief  as  all  other  hi.s  lands, 
although  the  said  Edmund  is  not  yet  of  lawful  age.  By  p.s.  [29510.] 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

John   ap   Rees    knight    eseheator    in    Herefordshire    and    Glou- 
cestershire and  in  the  march  of  Wales  adjacent. 
John  Hambury  eseheator  in  Worcestershire. 
John  Froille  eseheator  in  Oxfordshire,   Berkshire,   Wiltesir  and 

the  county  of  Suthampton. 
Nicholas  Heryng  eseheator  in  Kent,  Surrey  and  Sussex. 
Adam  atte  More  eseheator  in  Somerset  and  Dorset. 
Roger  Keterigg  eseheator  in  Essex  and  Hertfordshire. 
Nicholas  Seymor  eseheator  in  Norhamptonshire  and  Roteland. 
William  Ergum  knight  eseheator  in  Yorkshire. 
John  de  Broghton  eseheator  in   Bedfordshire  and  Bukingham- 

shire. 
John  Mattesford  eseheator  in  Devon. 
John  Piel  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  eseheator  therein. 

Jan.  7.  To  the  justiciary  and    chancellor  of   Ireland  for   the  time  being. 

Westminster.  Order  to  cause  Edmund  son  and  heir  of  Roger  de  Mortuo  Mari  earl  of 
March  tenant  in  chief  to  have  seisin  as  well  of  the  lands  in  Ireland 
which  his  said  father  held  in  chief  as  of  all  others  which  he  may  by 
inquisition  be  assured  were  bj^  the  said  Roger's  death  and  by  reason 
of  the  said  Edmund's  nonage  taken  into  the  king's  hand  ;  as  on 
6  January  last  the  king  took  his  homage  and  fealty,  and  commanded 
livery  to  be  given  him  of  his  father's  lands  in  England  and  the  march 
of  Wales  though  he  is  not  yet  of  lawful  age.  By  p.s.  [as  above]. 

The  like  to  the  captain  and  the  treasurer  of  Calais. 

Jan.  18.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norflfolk.     Order  to  cause  William  de  Uflford  earl 

Westminster,  of  Suffolk  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage  and  one  acre  of  land  in 
Yelverton  held  by  Richard  son  of  Margaret  le  Spenser  hanged  for 
felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by 
Robert  Bacon  late  sheriff,  that  the  premises  have  been  in  his  hand 
a  year  and  a  day  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  that  the  said  Richard  held 
them  of  the  said  earl,  and  that  WilUam  de  Middelton  late  sheriff  had 
the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste  thereof,  and  ought  to  answer  to  the 
king  for  the  same. 


46   EDWARD   III. 


419 


1372.  Membrane  33^. 

Writing  of  Walter  do  Spridlyngton,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Thomas  Ciuugny  knight,  his  h(iiis  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  and 
advowson  of  Farnoberwo  co.  iSu(ham|)t(m,  and  of  all  other  the  lands, 
rents  and  services  etc.  in  the  town  of  Farnehinwe  whicli  the  Siaid 
Thomas  lat(^ly  had  by  grant  and  f(H)ffment  of  William  d(!  Spridlyngton 
brother  of  the  said  \Valter.  Witnesses  :  Tliomas  de  Uyflet,  Adam 
atte  Lee  of  Cove,  Robert  Martyn  of  Farneborwe.  Dated  Farneberwe, 
Monday  after  8t.  Thomas  the  Apostle  45   Edward  III. 

Memoraiuluni  of  acknowledgmiMit  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
27  January  this  year. 

Writing  of  Wilham  de  Spridlyngton  clerk,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  \\arranty  to  Thomas  Cheygny  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Farneberwe  co.  Suthampton,  and 
of  all  other  lands,  rents  and  services  etc.  in  the  towne  of  Farne- 
berwe, which  the  said  Thomas  lately  had  by  grant  and  feoffment  of 
him  the  said  William.  Dated  Farneberwe,  Tuesday  after  St.  Thomas 
the   Apostle  45    Edward   III.     Witnesses   {as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27  January  this  year. 


Feb.  6. 
Westminster. 


John  de  Boverle  to  Ricliard  Dammory  knight. 


Recognisance  for 
200/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Oxfordshire. 


Writing  of  John  Asshbournehamme  of  Sussex,  being  a  quitclaim 
witli  warranty  to  John  de  Hadercsham  the  elder,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  all  the  lands,  meadows,  rents  etc.  in  the  towns  and  parishes  of 
Lyngefeld  and  (^rouhurste  co.  Surrey  whatsoever  which  he  the  said 
John  Asslibournehamme  had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Lawrence 
de  Bcnstede  and  Agnes  his  wife  in  Surrey.  Dated  Lyngefeld, 
10  February  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  12  February. 

Writing  of  Thomas  son  of  John  de  Mondham,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  Thomas  Coi'nwaleys  of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of 
the  manor  of  Mondham  in  the  parish  of  Fyndon  co.  Sussex  \dth  all 
appurtenances,  and  the  services  of  free  men  and  neifs  to  the  said  manor 
belonging  ;  also  of  3  acres  of  meadow  in  Wass\Tigton  and  Thakham. 
Dated  the  parish  of  St.  Martin  in  the  Vintry  London,  Friday  after 
the  Conversion  of  St.  Paul  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  12  February. 

Writing  of  William  de  Coton,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to 
Hugh  de  Berewyk  and  Adam  de  Louches  knights,  the  heirs  and  assigns . 
of  the  said  Hugh,  of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Fridelesham. 
Witnesses  :  Gilbert  Waas,  John  James,  John  Esebury,  Robert 
Woboume,  WiUiam  Birch.  Dated  Frydelesham,  10  February 
46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  February. 


March  1.        To  the  sheriff  of  York.     Order  to  stay  the  taking  of  the  bodies  of 

Westminster.  William  Pelle  and  Robert  Pelle  vicar  of  Birton,  and  if  he  has  taken  them 

by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  lately  directing  him  at  the  suit  of  Thomas 


120  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  33rf — cont. 

de  Wohvro  of  Biiton  to  attach  the  said  William  and  Robeit  and 
certain  others  so  as  to  have  them  at  a  set  day  before  the  king  to 
answer  the  plaintiff  concerning  a  mayhem  and  breach  of  the  peace  for 
which  he  is  appealing  them,  order  to  set  them  free  from  prison  by 
mainprise  of  John  de  Roughton,  Henry  de  JJodyngton  and  William 
de  Sleford  of  Lincolnshire,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  king  at  the 
day  named  in  the  said  former  writ  ;  as  petition  is  made  to  the  king  on 
behalf  of  the  said  William  Pelle  and  Robert  for  a  stay,  seeing  that 
they  ar(!  ready  at  that  day  lo  answer  the  plaintiff  touching  his  appeal, 
and  the  said  mainpernors  a[)pearing  in  person  in  chancery  have 
mainperned  for  them  under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have  their  bodies  before 
the  king  on  that  day. 

March  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk.  Order  by  mainprise  of  WiUiam  Payon  and 
Westminster.  Thomas  Lakford  of  Norffolk  to  stay  the  taking  of  the  body  of  William 
Redere  of  Lodne,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  king's  justices  at 
Westminster  one  month  after  Easter  next  ;  as  on  his  behalf  it 
is  shewn  the  king  that  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  lately  ordered 
the  sheriff  to  take  him  and  keep  him  in  prison  in  safe  custody 
so  as  to  have  his  body  before  the  justices  on  tlie  said  day  to  answer 
Geoffrey  Purchas  parson  of  Toft  Monks  concerning  an  alleged  debt  of 
22/.,  praying  a  stay  as  he  is  ready  to  stand  to  right  and  answer  the 
plaintiff ;  and  the  said  mainpernors  appearing  in  person  in  chancery 
have  mainperned  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  on  the  day 
named  to  answer  as  aforesaid. 

Memorandum  that  lately  by  advice  of  the  council  the  king  appointed 
that  Richard  de  Pembrugge  knight  should  be  his  lieutenant  in  Ireland 
for  the  defence  and  safety  thereof  in  the  room  of  Wilham  de 
Wyndesore  then  guardian  of  Ireland,  and  he  ordered  the  said  Richard 
as  speedily  as  he  might  to  make  ready  [to  go]  thither  and  there  abide 
upon  the  keeping  and  defence  of  the  land ;  and  the  said  Richard 
utterly  refused  to  take  his  journey  according  to  the  king's  command, 
wherefore  bringing  to  mind  the  enormous  gifts  and  rewards  he  heretofore 
made  the  said  Richard  for  his  service,  and  his  ingratitude  and  disobedi- 
ence, on  26  January  this  year  in  a  chamber  within  his  privy  palace  of 
Westminster  called  the  '  Oule  ehambre  '  the  king  with  assent  of  the 
council  caused  his  said  gifts  and  rewards  and  his  letters  patent  thereupon 
made  to  be  utterly  revoked,  namely  the  office  of  constable  of  Dovorre 
castle  and  warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports,  the  ward  of  Baumburgh  castle 
and  the  farm  issuing  from  the  tenants  of  the  io\vi\  of  Baumburgh, 
the  office  of  keeper  of  the  New  Forest  and  the  manor  of  Brokenhurst 
within  the  same,  100/.  yearly  to  be  taken  of  the  farm  of  the  said  forest 
which  the  king  granted  liim  for  life,  and  the  wardship  of  the  land 
and  heir  of  Thomas  Deschalers  tenant  in  chief  which  the  king  granted 
him  during  the  said  heir's  nonage  ;  and  the  king  ordered  that  the 
said  castles,  farm,  offices  and  wardships  should  be  seized  into  his  hand 
until  further  order,  not  willing  that  the  Sc\id  Richard  should  any 
more  meddle  therein,  nor  thereof  take  any  profit  or  advange. 

Membrane  32rf. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Middelton,  son  and  heir  of  Robert  de 
Middelton  of  Moungomery,  being  a  bond  to  Sir  Peter  deVeel  knight 


46    EDWARD    ill.  421 


1372.  Membrane    32rf — conl. 

in     1,000/.    payablu    at    Tortowoith    at    Michaelmas    next.       Dated 
Tortewoitli,  6  January  45  Edward  III. 

Metnorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  February  this  year. 

Charter  of  Robert  de  Middelton,  giving  witli  warranty  to  Nicholas 
rector  of  Charefekl,  Philip  de  Daunteseye  and  Richard  Gledewyne 
chaplain,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  his  lands  in  the  county  of  Salop 
and  in  Moungomereslond,  namely  in  the  towns  of  Moungomery,  Cotes, 
Alderse,  Chistock,  Symondescastel,  and  the  reversion  of  all  lands  in 
Aston  held  for  life  by  Thomas  (Thoinasyus)  de  Stratton  by  demise  of 
Robert  de  Middelton  father  of  the  said  Robert,  with  messuages,  arable 
lands,  meadows,  feeding,  pastures,  woods,  moors,  groves,  hays,  ditches, 
rents,  reliefs,  heriots,  escheats  and  suits  of  court  of  free  men  and  neifs 
etc.  Dated  Moungomery,  12  January  45  Edward  III.  Witnesses  : 
Robert  de  Stepelton,  Walter  de  Hokelton,  John  de  Stowe,  Adam  atte 
Forde,  John  Hycok,  WiUiam  Grace. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  February  this  year. 

Feb.  18.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London  or  Orewell. 
WeBtminster.  Order  to  Suffer  William  de  Feriby  clerk  freely  without  let  in  one  of 
those  ports  to  pass  towards  the  court  of  Rome  with  one  clerk  and 
one  groom,  taking  2  marks  for  his  expenses  and  25  marks  by  exchange, 
any  command  to  them  previously  addressed  to  the  contrary 
notwithstanding  ;  as  the  said  William  is  with  the  king's  licence  about 
to  journey  thither,  and  has  found  in  chancery  WiUiam  de  Feryby  of 
Yorkshire,  Thomas  de  Skelton  of  Cumberland  and  Thomas  Underhull 
of  Worcestershire  his  mainpernors  under  a  pain  of  100/.  that  he  shall 
not  there  pr.osecute  or  attempt  aught  that  may  tend  to  the  prejudice 
of  the  king  or  any  of  his  subjects.  By  bill  of  the  privy  seal. 

Articles  whereupon  William  Stile  is  by  his  oath  before  the  council 
charged  to  speak  the  truth  without  regard  to  aught  save  only  to  God 
and  his  honour. 

(1.)  The  said  Willian)  acknowledged  that  he  prosecuted  two 
statutes  merchant  of  5,000/.  alleged  to  be  made  by  Sir  Roger 
Bavent  to  John  his  son,  against  which,  when  in  the  Common 
Bench  the  original  writ  was  returned  upon  the  certificate,  the 
said  Sir  Roger  appeared  and  made  oath  that  the  same  were 
forged,  and  that  he  knew  not  that  they  were  made,  whereupon 
issued  out  of  chancery  a  supersedeas  rege  inconsidto,  and  the 
suit  was  stayed. 
(2.)  After  the  decease  of  the  said  Sir  Roger  the  said  William  by 
petition  sued  for  certain  lands,  to  wit  the  manor  of  Braundeston 
and  Combes  co.  Suffolk,  the  manor  of  Hachesham  co.  vSurrey, 
the  manor  of  Fifhide  and  Trowe,  the  tenements,  meadows 
and  rents  of  the  said  Roger  in  Wilton  and  Purbik,  the  manor 
of  Norton  Skidemor  co.  Wiltesir  with  the  advowson  of  the 
chantry  there,  one  carucate  of  land  and  40^'!.  of  rent  in  Putfold 
CO.  Surrey,  and  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Burton  atte 
Nassho  CO.  Dorset  sometime  of  the  said  Roger,  averring  in  his 
petition  that  the  premises  were  entailed  to  Hawise  late  wife  of 
the  said  Roger,  the  answer  to  which  petition  averred  that  the 
said  Hawise  had  a  forged  seal  of  Sir  Roger,  and  so  the  entail 
was  invented  and  forged,  and  that  Sir  Roger  in  his  life  time 


422  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane    32(/ — conl. 

swort!  to  tliis  ;  after  w  liich  answer  the  said  Hawise  prayed  the 
said  William  to  stay  his  suit,  acknowledging  that  the  same  was 
bad  ,  and  so  was  1  ad\ised  that  the  suit  was  false  and  untrue, 
for  siie  shewed  how  the  deed  was  forged  by  virtue  whereof 
the  manor  of  Norton  was  claimed  {denande),  and  two  seals 
whieii  she  had  forged  bearing  the  arms  of  Sir  Roger  Bavent 
and  given  her  by  one  brother  William  Calne,  and  thereupon 
consented  that  the  said  John  her  son  should  bind  himself  to 
become  a  friar  minor,  ami  so  he  was  ;  and  after  the  said  John 
crossed  tlie  sea  and  came  to  France,  and  received  the  order  of 
knighthood,  and  told  the  said  William  that  he  thought  not 
ever  to  come  tc;  Kngland  but  to  go  to  Assisi  and  take  orders 
as  he  was  bound  to  do,  and  w  illed  that  the  deeds  which  he  had 
left  in  England  should  be  delivered  to  the  king.  Sealed  by 
the  said  William.  French. 
Memorandum  of  acknow  ledgment  by  the  said  William,  13  February. 

Feb.  24.  Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  by  Simon  de  Castre  clerk,   Reynold 

Westminster,  de  Hillyngton,  William  de  Wilbegh,  Simon  de  Flicham,  IVIichael 
Mentmore  and  Richard  do  Waterden  of  Norffolk,  appearing  in  person 
in  chancery,  for  Edmund  de  Thorp  late  sheriff  of  Norffolk  and  Suffolk, 
that  he  shall  pay  the  king  2521.  Hv.  O^d.  in  the  quinzaine  of  Easter 
next  ;  and  recognisance  to  the  king  for  504/.  IGs.  Id.,  to  be  levied 
in  default  of  such   payment  of  their  lands  and  chattels. 

Cancelled  on  payment  being  by  the  said  Ednmnd  made  at  the  receipt 
of  the  exchequer,  as  appears  by  bill  of  Richard  Lescrope  the  treasurer 
under  his  seal  sent  into  chancery  and  remaining  upon  the  files  of 
chancery  for  this  year. . 

Feb.  24.  Edmund  de  Thorp  knight  of  Norffolk  to  Simon  do  Castre  clerk. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  600Z.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Norffolk. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

The  said  Edmund  to  Simon  de  Flicham.     Recognisance  for  600/., 
to  be  levied  etc.  as  the  last. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Feb.  21.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London  and  the  river 

Westminster.  Thames.  Order  to  suffer  Richard  de  Ivenet  clerk,  who  with  the 
king's  licence  is  about  to  journey  over  sea  to  the  court  of  Rome,  to 
pass  freely  without  let  in  the  said  port  and  river  taking  4Z.  for  his 
expenses  and  his  furniture  (hernesiis),  any  command  of  the  king  to 
them  previously  addressed  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding  ;  as  the 
said  Richard  has  found  before  the  king  in  chancery  Roger  Legate 
and  William  atte  Marche  of  Middlesex  his  mainpernors  under  a  pain 
of  100/.  to  be  levied  to  the  king's  use  if  he  shall  attempt  or  cause  to 
be  attempted  aught  that  may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  of 
his  subjects. 

Feb.  23.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London,  Orewell  or 

Westminster.  Great  Jernemuth.     Order  to  suffer  Lawrence  Gouvene  chaplain  and 

William  Brech'  clerk,  who  with  the  king's  licence  are  about  to  journey 

over  sea  and  thence  to  the  court  of  Rome,  to  pass  freely  without 


46   EDWARD   III. 


423 


1372.  Membrane    32rf — cont. 

let  in  one  of  those  ports  taking  ono  liackney,  40'*.  for  their  txpeases 

and    20    marks     by     exchange,    any    proclamations,    ordinances     or 

commands  to   the  contrary  notwithstanding  ;    as  they   have  found 

before  the  king  in  chancery  John   Bays  and   William  atte   Welle  of 

Somerset,  who  have  mainperned  for  them  under  a  pain  of  100/.  that 

they  shall  not  in  the  said  court  prosecute  nor  attempt  aught  that 

may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  any  of  his  subjects. 

The  like  to  i\w  following  : 

March  3.  The  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London  or  Dovorre, 

Westminster.  that  Thomas  Baret  [bishop]  elect  of  the  archbishopric  of  Conagh' 

in  Irelanil  (dcclusarchiepiscoixxtiis  dc.  Cotuifjh),  by  his  oath  sworn 

in  chancery,  may  pass  to  the  court  of  Rome  with  five  clerks 

taking  6  marks    for   liis    expenses,    6/.   by    exchange    and    liis 

furniture  whatsoever. 

The  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  Dovorre,  that  William 

de   Barton   clerk,   one   of   the   servants   of   Master   Roger   de 

Freton  w  ho  is  abiding  in  the  parts  of  Calais  in  the  company  of 

the  cardinal  of  Canterbury,  may  pass  to  his  said  master  taking 

one  hackney  price  206'.  and  20^.  for  his  expcmses,  by  mainprise 

of  John  de  Freton  clerk  of  Xorlfolk  and  Henry  de  Bladworth 

of  Yorkshire  under  a  pain  of  20  marks.  By  p.s. 

March  6.  The  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  Dovorre  or  Sandewie, 

VVestminster.  that  Robert  de    Colton   may   pass  toward  Simon    cardinal  of 

Canterbury,   taking  one  groom   and   8i\   for  his  expenses,   by 

mainprise  of  John  de  Neville  knight. 

April   1.  The  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London  or  Dovorre, 

Westminster.  that   Thomas   L<n'oryngton   clerk   may   pass   to     the   parts   of 

Calais  with  William  Tamworth  and  Jolm  Cotegrave  yeomen, 

taking  one  horse  and  lOOs.  for  his  expenses,  by  mainprise  of 

John  de  Leveryngton  under  a  pain  of  100/.  By  p.s. 

May  24.  That    Walter   Levenaunt    clerk    may    pass    towards    Calais    and 

Westminster.  thence  towards  the  court  of  Rome  with  one  yeoman,  taking 

I00,s\  for  his  expenses  and  letters  of  exchange  for  40/.,  by 
mainprise  of  Andrew  Xeweton,  Roger  Lewes  and  John  Kent 
of  London  under  a  pain  of  20/.         By  letter  of  the  privy  seal. 

Membrane  3ld. 

Indenture  made  between  the  king  and  Thomas  de  Crete  well,  being 
a  lease  for  five  years  from  Easter  next  of  the  subsidy  grante^d  to  the 
king  by  the  lords  and  commons  of  the  realm  upon  cloths  for  sale  in 
Lincolnshire,  Roteland,  Xotinghamshire  and  Derbyshire,  rendering 
24/.  a  year  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions.  Covenants 
{as  above,  p.  89),  all  foi-feitures  being  reserved  to  the  king.  Dated 
Westminster,   8   February.     French.  By   bill   of   the   treasurer. 

Mainpernors,  John  Outhorp  of  Lincoln  and  Thomas  de  Lounde. 
The  like  indentures  are  made  w  ith  the  following  : 

Norffolk  and  Suffolk.  John  Claver  of  Bury  for  three  years  from 
8  May  last,  rendering  30/.  a  year  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter 
by  even  portions,  and  taking  a  moiety  of  the  forfeitures. 
Dated  7  July.     French.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Mainpernors,  Thomas  de  Lakford  and  Thonuvs  de  Ewell  of  the 
said  counties. 
Warwickshire,  Leicestershire,  Statl'ordshire  and  Salop.     John  Ray 
of  Coventre  for  three  years  from  Michaelmas  last,  rendering 


424  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane    31rf — cont. 

50  marks  a  year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  and  taking  a  third 
part  of  the  forfeitures.  Mainpernors :  Robert  Barker, 
William  Smyth  and  John  Sylby  of  WarwicksMre.  Dated 
8  October.     French.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  city  and  suburbs  of  London  and  the  county  of  Middlesex. 
Richard  Baret  from  Michaelmas  last  to  Michaelmas  next, 
rendering  100  marks  for  that  year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas, 
and  taking  a  moiety  of  the  forfeitures.  Covenant  that  if  the  king 
shall  release  or  pardon  to  any  man  any  cloths  after  they  be 
forfeited  and  by  the  lessee  arrested,  he  shall  have  allowance 
made  in  his  farm  for  the  value  of  a  moiety  thereof.  Dated 
20  January.     French.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Essex  and  Hertfordshire.  Simon  de  Burgh  for  five  years  from 
Michaelmas  last,  rendering  40  marks  a  year  at  Easter  and 
Michaelmas,  all  forfeitures  being  reserved  to  the  king. 
Mainpernors :  John  Rethe  and  William  Benet  of  Kent.  Dat«d 
10  October.     French. 

1373.  Wyrcestreshire.     Alexander    de    Besford    for    three    years    from 

Easter  next,  rendering  54.i'.  a  year  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter, 
all  forfeitures  being  reserved  to  the  king.  Mainpernor  :  William 
de  Mulsho  clerk  of  Bukinghamshire.  Dated  21  January. 
French.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 


1372. 


Promise  and  oath  of  fealty  upon  the  gospels  made  to  the  king  by 
Arnald  Gamier  receiver  in  England  of  the  pope's  dues,  that  he  will 
do,  procure  or  suffer  nought  to  be  done  or  procured  to  the  hurt  or 
prejudice  of  the  king  or  realm,  the  laws  or  any  of  his  subjects,  \vill 
give  faithful  counsel  when  required,  will  keep  secret  the  king's  counsel 
not  revealing  it  to  an}'^  man  living,  will  execute  no  letters  or  commands 
of  the  pope  displeasing  to  the  king  or  his  subjects,  and  receive  none 
such  but  to  deliver  them  to  the  council,  will  without  special  licence 
of  the  king  or  council  send  out  of  the  realm  no  treasure  or  due  of  the 
pope  or  any  cardinal  or  other  person  in  money,  plate  of  gold  or  silver, 
by  letters  of  exchange  or  other  letters,  will  so  far  as  in  him  lies  guard 
and  maintain  the  king's  honour  and  estate,  his  laws  and  rights  without 
impairment,  and  will  not  pass  out  of  the  realm  without  the  king's 
licence.  Dated  Westminster  Palace,  13  February  1372,  in  presence  of 
Sir  Robert  de  Tliorp  chancellor,  Richard  Lescrope  treasurer  of 
England,  Sir  John  de  Neville  steward,  Nicholas  Carreu  keeper  of  the 
privy  .seal.  Sir  John  Knyvet  justice,  Henry  Wakefeld  treasurer  of 
the  hou.sehold,  Sir  Henry  Snayth  chancellor  of  the  exchequer,  Richard 
de  Ravenser  clerk  of  the  hanaper,  John  de  Branketre  and  Wilham 
de  Tiryngton  the  king's  notaries.     French. 

[Feeder  a. ^ 

Membrane  30f^. 

Notification  made  by  verbal  command  of  pope  Urban  V  under  seal 
of  Talayrand  cardinal  bishop  of  Albano  and  Guillermus  cardinal  priest 
of  St.  Mary  in  Tro.'itevere,  addressed  to  the  bishop  of  Lincoln,  that  on 
Wednesday  15  November  this  year  in  the  papal  palace,  in  their 
presence  and  in  presence  of  the  pope,  Giles  cardinal  priest  of  St. 
Martin  in  Montibus  for  particular  causes  resigned  into  the  pope's  hands 
the  archdeaconry  of  Lincoln,  to  which  he  was  long  before  collated 
by  the  said  pope,  the  same  being  void  by  the  death  of  Audoyn  cardinal 


46   EDWARD    HI. 


425 


1372. 


Membrane    30rf — cont. 


bishop  of  Ostia  and  X'ollctii  who  died  at  tlie  papal  see  ;  and  that  the 
pope  adn)itted  and  apj)roved  his  resignation.  Dated  Avignon, 
15  November  1363,  2  Urban  \ . 


Feb.  20.  Tp  the  slioriff  of  Somerset.     Order  by  inainpri.se  of  John  de  Kente- 

Westminster.  combe  and  Walter  Briine  of  Somerset  to  stay  the  tailing  of  the 
body  of  Jolin  Wyse,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  at  Westminster 
one  montli  after  Easter  next  ;  as  on  his  behalf  it  is  sheA^n  the  king 
that  by  writ  d(  judicio  lie  lately  ordered  the  slieriff  to  take  the  saitl 
John  and  keep  him  in  piison  in  safe  custody  so  as  to  liave  him  before 
the  justices  on  that  day  to  answer  William  C'ammel  clerk  and  Robert 
Samborne  clerk  executors  of  Ralph  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells  on  a 
plea  that  he  shoidd  render  them  20/.,  and  that  he  is  ready  so  to  answer 
and  stand  to  right  in  all  things,  praying  a  stay  ;  and  the  said  John  de 
Kentecombe  and  Walter  have  before  the  king  mainperned  under  a  pain 
of  20/.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  on  the  day  named  to  answer 
as  aforesaid. 

The  following  have  the  like  writs  of  su  perse  deux  : 

William  Maunston  and  Alice  his  wife  at  suit  of  the  said  executors 
for  a  debt  of  20/.     Mainpernors  as  above  under  the  same  pain. 
William    Goudhyne  one  of   the  executors  of  John  Joye  at  suit  of 
the  said   I'xecutors  for  a  debt  of  20/.     Mainpernois  John  de 
Kentecombe  and  Walter  Broune  under  the  same  pain. 
The  said  William  Goudhyne  at  suit  of  the  said  executors  for  a  debt 
of  20/.     Alainijernors  and  pain  (os-  the  laxt). 
March  5.  'J'homas  Somer  parson  of  »Suthwyke,  addressed  to  the  sheriff  of 

Westminster.  Sussex,  at  suit  of  -Walter  Gosselyn  and  John  Omblour  of  Lewes 

for  a  debt  of  60/.  Mainpernors:  Walter  Levenant  of  Sussex, 
John  Dome  of  Gloucestershire,  William  Norwych  of  London  and 
William  Wyger  of  Devon  under  a  pain  of  60/.  if  they  have  him 
not  before  the  said  justices  three  weeks  after  Easter. 

Feb.  16.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk.     Order,  upon  petition  made  on  behalf 

Westminster,  of  William  Leystre,  to  set  him  free  from  piison  by  mainprise  of 
William  de  Norwych  of  London  and  John  de  Wyklewode  of  Norwich, 
bringing  this  wi'it  before  the  justices  at  W^estminster  fifteen  days  after 
Easter  next  ;  as  the  said  petition  shews  that  lately  the  king  ordered 
the  sheriff  to  attach  the  said  William  Leystre  so  as  to  have  his  body 
before  the  said  justices  on  that  day  to  answer  as  well  the  king  as  Roger 
de  W^alsham  on  a  plea  that  he  being  lately  retained  in  the  said  Roger's 
service  at  Brunstede  did  contrary  to  the  ordinance  without  reasonable 
cause  and  the  said  Rogers  licence  withdraw  from  his  service  before 
the  term  agreed,  by  virtue  whereof  he  is  by  the  sheriff  taken  and 
imprisoned,  and  that  he  is  ready  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things  and 
answer  as  well  the  king  as  the  said  Roger  concerning  the  premises  ; 
and  the  said  William  de  Norwych  and  John,  appearing  in  person  in 
chancery,  have  mainperned  for  him  under  a  pain  of  40/.  to  have  him 
before  the  said  justices  on  the  day  named. 


(^barter  of  Giles  de  la  Grave  of  Little  Claketon,  giving  with  warranty 
to  Sir  John  Warener  rector  of  Leyre  Marny,  Sir  John  de  Schropham 
chaplain  and  Matthew  Haliday  of  Leyre  aforesaid,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  all  lands,  rents  and  services  which  he  has  in  Essex. 
Witnesses  :     Richard  de  Sutton,   Thomas  de  Sancto  Claro   knights, 


426 


CALENDAR   OF   CLU8E   KOLLvS. 


1372. 


Membrane    30rf — cont. 
de     Kirkt;ton,      William 


John  Filliol,  Roger  de  Kirkt;ton,  William  Strangman,  John 
Staunt'ord,  Joiin  Dunnyng.  Dated  Claketoa  at'oxe.said,  Friday  after 
the  Ascension  45  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  10  March  this  year. 

Charter  of  John  Warenier  rector  of  Leyre  Marny  and  John  de 
Shropham  chaplain,  giving  with  warranty  to  Giles  de  la  Grave  of 
Little  Claketon  and  Joan  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with 
remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said 
Giles,  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Essex  which  they  lately 
had  of  his  gift  and  feoffment.  Witnesses  :  Richard  de  Suttcm, 
Thomas  de  Sancto  Claro  knights,  John  Filliol,  Roger  Kirketon,  John 
Staunford,  William  Strangman,  John  Dunnyng.  Dated  Claketon 
aforesaid,  6  March  46  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  10  March. 

March  16.  To  the  sheriff  of  Surrey.  Order  by  mainprise  of  David  Hesham  of 
Westminster.  London  and  William  Abbot  of  Kelseye  co.  Lincoln  to  stay  the 
taking  of  the  body  of  John  Gatyn,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  king 
fifteen  days  after  Easter  ;  as  on  his  behalf  it  is  shewn  the  king  that 
lately  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the  sheriif  to  take  the  said 
John  and  keep  him  in  prison  in  safe  custody  so  as  to  have  him  on  that 
day  before  the  king  to  answer  to  Robert  Nottebourne  concerning  an 
alleged  trespass,  praying  for  a  stay  as  he  is  ready  so  to  answer  and 
stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  David  and  William  have 
niainperned  under  a  pain  of  20^.  to  have  him  before  the  king  at  the 
day  named. 

March  20.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  Dovorre.  Order  to  suffer 
Westminster.  Robert  Drax  clerk  freely  without  let  in  that  port  to  pass  towards 
Calais  taking  5  marks  for  his  expenses,  any  command  whatsoever 
to  them  addressed  to  tlie  contrary  notwithstanding  ;  as  with  the 
king's  licence  the  said  Robert  is  about  to  journey  to  those  parts,  and 
has  found  in  chancery  Robert  de  Burgh  "  goldsmyth  '  and  John  '  atte 
the  Tabbard  '  his  mainpernois,  who  have  niainperned  under  a  pain 
of  100/.  that  he  shall  not  attempt  aught  that  may  tend  to  the 
prejudice  of  the  king  or  crown  or  any  of  his  subjects.  By  p.s. 


April  27.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  cause  Geoffrey  Heyford  clerk 
Westminster,  to  be  set  free  from  Neugate  gaol  by  mainprise  of  Nicholas  de 
Chattesden  of  Derbyshire  clerk,  Simon  de  Lychefeld,  William  de 
Strctehay  and  Richard  de  Hampton  of  Staffordshire,  although  lately 
learning  that  the  said  Geoffrey  would  have  departed  without  his  licence 
to  foreign  parts,  and  would  have  prosecuted  many  things  to  the 
prejudice  of  the  king  and  crown  in  contemjit  of  the  king  and  contrary 
to  the  proclamation,  the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  cause  him  to  come 
before  them  in  person  and  find  mainpernors  who  under  a  pain  to  be 
by  the  sheriffs  set  would  mainpern  that  he  should  not  without  the 
king's  licence  depart  thither,  and  should  not  attempt  aught  tending 
to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  crown,  and  if  he  should  n^fuse,  to 
commit  him  to  prison,  there  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  until  he  would 
willingly  so  do  ;    as  the  said  Nicholas,  Simon,  William  and  Richard, 


46  EDWAKi)   iil.  427 


.1372.  Membrane    30d — cont. 

appearing  in  person  in  chancorv,  liavi;  under  a  pain  of  100/.  main- 
perned  as  aforesaid  for  the  said  Cieoffrey,  who  by  virtue  of  the  said 
command  is  by  the  sheriffs  taken  and  imprisoned  in  the  said  gaol 
it  is  said. 

MEMBRANh   2\)d. 

Writing  of  John  Whateman,  son  of  Thomas  Whateman  and  Joan 
his  wife  sister  and  one  of  tlie  heirs  of  Andrew  de  Bekenesfeld,  being  a 
quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Nicholas  de  (^xrreu  the  elder,  liis  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  tlie  inanor  of  Cressalton  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services  etc. 
which  he  the  said  Nicholas  has  and  holds  in  seisin  during  the  life  of  Joan 
wife  of  Richard  Claypol  by  grant  and  demise  of  the  said  Richard  and 
Joan  in  the  towns  of  Cressalton,  Bedyngton,  Sutton,  Wodmersthorn, 
Miccham  and  Clopham,  and  all  other  lands  etc.  which  ever  were  of  Sir 
William  Aumbesas  knight  and  Joan  his  wife  in  the  said  towns  or 
elsewhere  in  Surrey  ;  also  to  the  said  Nicholas  and  to  Joan  wife  of 
the  said  Richard  and  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  Nicholas  of 
three  messuages,  one  carucate  40  acres  of  land  and  36.s\  of  rent  which 
thev  the  said  Nicholas  and  Joan  held  in  seisin  bv  gift  of  Henrv  Mot 
and  Alice  his  wife  in  the  towns  of  Cressalton,  Bedyngton,  Sutton, 
Wodmersthorn,  Miccham  andClopham,  and  all  ather  lands  etc.  which 
the  said  Andrew  ever  had  in  the  said  towns  or  elsewhere  in  Surrey. 
Witnesses  :  Thomas  de  Kynardcsle,  John  de  Waleton,  John  Olyver 
the  younger,  Thoma.s  Halyng,  William  Resoun,  Adam  Kentissh, 
Nicholas  Davy.     Dated  Bedyngton,  15  March  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandnui  of  acknowledgment,  10  March,  before  Robert  de 
Thorp  the  chancellor  at  London  in  his  lodging. 


Charter  of  Joan  relict  of  Geoffrey  Colewell  daughter  and  heir  of  John 
ColeweU  in  iier  widowhood,  giving  with  warrant^'  to  John  de 
Henxteworth  the  elder  and  Maud  his  wife,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
a  messuage  and  toft,  55  acres  of  arable  land  and  7  acres  of  meadow 
and  pasture  in  the  town  of  Radewell  by  Baldok  which  descended  by 
inheritance  to  her  the  said  Joan  after  the  death  of  her  said  father. 
Witnesses  :  John  atte  Barre,  John  Astwyk,  Richard  Otewy,  William 
Vynyter,  Roger  le  Zouge,  William  Seman.  Dated  Radewell, 
Wednesday  before  Easter  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
24  March. 

Writing  of  Alice  de  Notteley,  daughter  and  heir  of  Richard  de 
Notteley,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  William  del  Hawe,  his 
heii"s  and  assigns,  of  a  tenement  \sitli  garden  adjoining  sometime  of 
Richard  her  father  in  the  street  of  Charryng  in  the  town  of  West- 
minster, situate  between  a  tenement  t)f  \\'illiaiii  lp})egrave  towards 
the  east  and  a  tenement  of  Thomas  Trillowe  towards  the  west.  Wit- 
nesses :  Thomas  Brantisby,  Roger  Sudbury,  Robert  Hakebourne, 
John  de  Shelton,  John  Want^•ngge.  Dated  CharrjTig,  20  February 
40  Edward  III. 

Mcinoraiulum  of  acknowledgment,  20  March. 

March  28.        To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  to  cause  the  peace 

Eltham.       and  concord  newly  made  between  the  king  f(jr  himself  and  his  subjects 

and  Lewis  count  of  Flanders  for  himself  and  his  subjects  to  be  pro- 

claiiued   in   the   city   and   suburbs  of   London,   on   the   king's    behalf 


428  CALENDAR   OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane    2M — cont. 

forbidding  any  man  of  whateioevor  estate  or  condition  und(ir  pain  of 
forfeiture  to  inflict  or  so  far  as  in  him  lies  to  Buffer  any  other  to  inflict 
wrong,  trouble,  hurt,  violence,  liindrance  or  grievance  upon  the  persons, 
ships,  goods  or  property  of  merchants  of  Flanders  or  other  men  of 
Flanders  whatsoever  coming  by  land  or  sea  through  the  king's 
dominion  and  power  to  trafiic  or  for  other  lawful  cause,  there  abiding, 
plying  their  traffic,  and  thence  returning  to  their  own  again,  but  cherish 
and  kindly  entreat  them  as  the  king's  friends  and  wcili  wishers  ;  and 
order  themselves  without  delay  to  dearrest  all  men  of  F^landers,  their 
goods  and  merchandise  in  the  said  city  arrested  by  reason  of  the  debates 
and  strife  lately  moved  between  the  king's  subjects  and  tiie  subjects 
of  the  said  count,  suffering  them  according  to  the  said  concord  there 
to  have  their  conversation  and  traffic  with  their  goods  and  merchandise, 
or  freely  to  depart  and  pass  thence  ;  as  in  the  said  peace  it  is  (among 
other  things)  contained  that  the  lords,  people,  subjects,  shipmasters, 
seamen  and  merchants  of  either  party  on  either  side  the  sea,  and  all 
other  true  merchants  not  being  enemies  of  either  party,  may  freely 
and  peaceably  have  their  communication  and  conversation  together, 
trafficking  one  with  another  and  bringing  by  land  and  sea  their  own 
goods  and  the  goods  of  other  true  merchants  not  being  enemies  of 
either  party  in  as  friendly,  free  and  peaceable  manner  as  in  any  time 
of  peace  they  used  to  do,  paying  customs,  subsidies  and  other  duties, 
and  that  all  merchants  and  others  of  Flanders  whatsoever  by  the 
mayor  and  sheriffs  arrested  as  aforesaid  by  virtue  of  any  command  of 
the  king  or  otherwise  shall  with  their  goods  and  merchandise  be  set 
free  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will  that  the  said  concord  be  kept  unbroken 
in  all  things.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Fosdera.] 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Lenne  and  of  nine  other  cities  and 
towns. 

The  bailiffs  of  St.  Botolph  and  of  four  other  cities  and  towns. 

Philip  de  Courtenay  admiral  of  the  fleet  from  the  mouth  of  the 
Thames  westward,  or  his  lieutenant. 

William  (sic)  de  Neville  admiral  of  the  Meet  from  the  mouth  of  the 
Thames  northward,  or  his  lieutenant. 

William  Latymer  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of  the 
Cinque  Ports,  or  his  lieutenant. 
[Ibid.] 

March  'A.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Older  to  set  free  from  Neugate  prison 
Westminster.  Richard  de  Woxbrugge  parson  of  ingoldesby  by  mainprise  of  John 
atte  Forde  of  Eyver,  Thomas  Puichas  of  Langle  Mareyes  and  Richard 
Car  of  L[angleJ  Mareyes  of  Bukinghamshire,  Stephen  Dyere  of 
Woxbrugge,  John  Dyere  of  Woxebrugge  of  Middlesex,  and  Robert 
Aldewynkle  of  Wykhani  of  Leycestershire  ;  as  lately  learning  that 
the  said  parson  was  purposing  to  depart  to  foreign  parts  in  order  to 
prosecute  many  things  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  and  crown,  the 
king  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  compel  him  to  come  before  them  and  find 
mainpernors  who  under  pain  of  forfeiture  of  a  sum  of  money  to  be  by 
tlie  sheriffs  laid  upon  them  would  mainpein  him  that  he  should  not 
so  depart  nor  send  thither  to  prosecute  aught  to  the  prejudice  of  the 
king  or  crown,  and  if  he  should  refuse,  to  commit  him  to  the  said 
prison  there  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  until  he  would  willingly  so  do, 


46    EDWARD   TIL  429 


1372.  Membrane  29rf — cont. 

by  virtue  of  which  command  the  said  lliohard  is  by  the  sherifTs  taken 
and  imprisoned  ;  and  the  said  John  atte  Fordc  and  the  others  named, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  liave  mainpcined  for  him  under  a 
pain  of  100  marks  that  he  shall  not  so  depart  nor  send  to  foreign  parts 
in  order  to  prosecute  aught  tliat  may  It'ud  to  the  preju(h'(c  of  the 
king  or  crown  or  to  be  derogatory  to  (lie  laws  of  the  realm. 

Membrane  2Hd. 

April  2.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order,  if  assured  that  Edmund  C'oflfard 

Westminster,  is  one  of  the  baihffs  of  the  town  of  New  Sarum,  if  John  Thurstan  of 
Watereton  and  William  Huntyngdon  '  taillonr  '  are  by  the  sherifTs 
taken  at  his  suit  and  for  that  cause  and  none  other  are  imprisoned 
in  Neugate  gaol,  and  if  likewise  assured  by  the  said  bailiff's  certificate 
that  the  said  John  and  William  were  in  his  custody  in  the  gaol  of  New 
Sarum  for  certain  felonies  for  which  they  were  indicted  at  the  time 
when  he  escaped  (evasit),  to  deliver  them  by  indenture  to  the  said 
bailiff  to  be  brought  to  the  gaol  of  New  Sarum  and  there  kept  in 
safe  custody  until  thence  delivered  according  to  the  law  and  custom 
of  the  realm  ;  as  the  said  bailiff  has  shewn  tiie  king  that  they  being 
imprisoned  as  aforesaid  broke  the  said  gaol  and  escaped,  and  are 
now  by  the  sheriffs  newly  taken  within  the  liberty  of  the  city  of 
London  and  imprisoned  in  Neugate  gaol  at  his  suit  touching  the  said 
breach,  praying  that  they  shall  be  delivered  to  him  to  be  brought 
again  to  the  gaol  of  New  Sarum  and  there  receive  justice  ;  and 
John  de  Salesbury  of  London  one  of  the  king's  serjeants  at  arms  and 
John  Cusyn  of  Salesbury,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  main- 
perned  for  the  said  bailiff  under  a  pain  of  lOOl.  that  he  shall  bring 
them  thither  in  safety  and  there  keep  them  in  safe  custody  until 
delivered  as  aforesaid. 

April  9.  Aubrey   de    Veer    knight   to   Walter   Pavely   knight   and   John   de 

Westminster.  Gildesburgh.  Recognisance  for  700  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Essex. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  achioivledged  bi)  the  said  Walter. 

April  13.         John  de  Shorton  parson  of  Arkeseye  in  the  diocese  of  York  and 

Westminster.  John  de  Foxden  paison  of  Copford  in  the  diocese  of  London  to  John 

de  Ludham  canon  of  the  chinch  of  St.  Paul   London  and  John  de 

Stodeye  citizen  of  London.     Recognisance  for  100/.,  to  be  levied  etc. 

of  their  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Yorkshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  John  de  Ludham. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Ednessore  citizen  and  skinner  of  London, 
being  a  quitclaim  to  Nicholas  Broke  of  Bradefeld  of  all  the  lands 
etc.  which  were  of  John  Knapwell  in  the  town  of  Bradefeld.  Witnesses  : 
William  de  Stoke,  Augustine  Svdberd,  John  Bakere,  Gilbert  Mulleward. 
Nicholas  Webbe.     Dated  Bastelden,  Sunday  11  April  46  Edward  TTT. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  15  April. 

WMting  of  John  de  Clynton  and  Fulk  de  Bermyncham  knights  and 
Thomas  de  Haclute  clerk,  being  a  receipt  and  acquittance  to  the 
executors  of  Thomas  de  Bello  Campo  earl  of  Warrewyk  and  to  Roger 
de  Clifford  lord  of  Westmorland  for  1,000  marks  wherein  the  said 


430  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane    2Sd — cont. 

earl  and  Roger  were  bound  to  tluiin.     Dated  Westminster,  14  April 
40  Edward  Hi. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  ))y  the  said  Fulk,  17  April. 

April  21.         Robert  dr  IJatelay  of  Xorfl'olk  to  Thomas  de  Mirfeld.     Recognisance 
VVestininster.  for   10  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
cliattels  in  Norftolk. 

April  22.         Walter  son  and  heir  of  John  Faucomberge  of  Bilton  in  Hoklernesse 
Westminster,  to  Joan   who   was   wife   of  John   de   Bilton   of   Hoklernesse   knight. 
Recognisance  for  100/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Yorksliire. 

April  22.         Thomas   Cheyne   knight  and   William   his   brother  to   Richard  de 
Westminster.  Spridelington  clerk.     Recognisance  for  100  marks,  to  be  levied  etc. 
in  Sus.se  X. 

April  28.         Thomas  Banastre  knight  to  Nicholas  de  Longeford  knight.     Recog- 
Westminster.  nisance  for  200  marks  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Lancashire. 

Charter  of  Jolm  son  of  Richard  de  Allerton  of  York,  granting  with 
warranty  to  Michael  de  Ravendale  and  Richard  de  Bydyk  clerks, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  12.s'.  issuing  from  a  messuage 
and  appurtenances  in  the  city  of  York  in  a  street  called  Grapecuntlane 
wherein  Master  Richard  de  Rykyngham  sometime  dwelt.  Dated 
Westminster,  4  February  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  May. 

Writing  of  John  son  and  heir  of  Sir  John  de  Eyllesford,  being  a  grant 
and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Sir  William  Latymer  lord  of  Danby, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Burton  and  of 
all  lands,  rents  and  services,  reversions  of  tenants  whatsoever  when 
they  shall  fall  in  etc.  which  he  the  said  William  holds  by  demise  of  him 
the  said  John  the  son  or  otherwise  in  Burton  co.  Norhampton. 
Witnesses  :  Sir  Robert  de  Thorp,  Sir  John  Knyvet,  Sir  John  de 
Nowers  knights,  Nicholas  Grene,  John  de  Holt.  Dated  Westminster, 
3  May  46  Edward  III. 

Memwandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  May. 

Writing  of  Peter  de  Careswell  knight,  son  and  heir  of  William  de 
Careswell  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Baldwin  de  Frevylle  knight  and 
his  heirs  of  the  manors  of  PyTiley  by  Coventre  and  Wykene  co.Warrewyk 
and  of  all  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  whatsoever  in  the  towns 
of  Coventre,  Styvichale,  Pynley  aforesaid,  Ecleshale,  Stoke,  Wykene 
and  Herdeborogh  and  of  the  advowson  of  Herdeborogh  church, 
except  the  lands  and  woods  in  Pynley  which  Simon  de  Newton  and 
Richard  his  brother  lately  held  for  life  by  demise  of  the  said  Peter, 
for  which  quitclaim  the  said  Baldwin  has  given  200Z.  Witnesses  : 
John  Pecche,  Fulk  de  Burmjoigham,  William  Bretoun  knights,  John 
de  Catesbv,  Thomas  Geegg',  Robert  Burgoylloun.  Dated  Coventre, 
3  May  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  6  May. 

Charter  of  John  de  Minstreworth  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to 
John  de  Kyngesfolde  and  Isabel  his  wife,  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the 


46   EDWARD   III. 


431 


1372. 


Membrane    2Sd — cont. 


said  John,  his  manor  and  advowson  of  Xoitlibarsham  co.  Norffolk 
which  lie  lately  had  of  the;  gift  of  Stephen  \V'yd(\sljui(!.  Witnesses  : 
Roger  de  la  Chaunibre,  .John  Staphs  the  king's  s(MJ(nint  at  arms, 
William  de  Neudegate,  Walter  dr  Warnhain,  .lolin  lleinery.  l-)at(!(l 
London,  Sunday  aft<^r  St.  Philip  and  St.  .James  40  K<luai(l  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowletlgment,  (i  May. 


Membrane  21  d. 

April  18.  To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.  Order,  for  particular  causes  laid  before 
Westminster,  the  king  and  council,  to  stay  altogether  fuither  process  by  virtue 
of  the  kings  writ  })ending  before  them  against  Master  Hcmry  de 
Westbroke  clerk,  discharging  as  well  the  said  H(>nrv  as  the  nuiin- 
pemors  by  him  found  before  the  king,  although  lately  upon  information 
received  that  he  and  certain  others  in  an  alien  court  without  the 
realm  prosecuted  the  impeachment  and  annulling  of  a  judgment 
lately  rendered  before  the  said  justices  in  the  king's  court  in  a  cause 
between  William  de  Fyncheden  knight,  Richard  Mitford  clerk  and 
Jolm  Dyngley  the  younger  and  the  prior  of  the  Hospital  (jf  St.  John 
of  Jerusalem  in  England  concerning  the  presentation  to  Normanton 
church,  and  that  they  haled  ^Valter  Hanecok  clerk  to  a  plea  without 
the  realm  for  that  he  obtained  the  said  churc-h  at  the  presentation  of 
the  said  William,  Richard  and  John,  making  and  procuring  thereupon 
provocations,  appeals,  instruments,  processes  and  many  mon^  tilings 
to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  and  crown,  in  contem])t  of  the  king  and 
contrary  to  the  statute,  the  king  by  writ  ordered  the  sheriff  of  York 
to  warn  the  said  Henry  and  others  therein  named  at  Normanton  to 
be  before  the  said  justices  at  a  set  day  now  past  to  answer  touching  the 
premises. 

April  19.         Walter  Pavele  knight  and  Peter  de  Combe  to  Walter  Power  clerk 
Weetminstor.  and    Nicholas    de    Spaigne.      Joint     and    .several     recognisance    for 
80  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of   their  lands   and 
chattels  in  Kent. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Nicholas. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Brerelay,  son  and  heir  of  Hugh  de  Rrerelay, 
consenting  and  agreeing  that  William  de  Brerelay  shall  without 
impeachment  of  him  the  said  Thomas  make  to  Sir  Robert  de  Swillyngton 
the  uncle  and  to  his  heirs  so  sure  an  estate  in  the  manor  of  Brerelay 
after  the  decease  of  Maud  mother  of  the  said  Thomas  as  he  the  said 
William  has  therein ;  in  which  manor  the  said  William  w  as  enfeoffed 
with  others  who  have  released  their  riglit  therein  to  him  in  his 
possession  being  and  to  his  heirs,  and  the  said  Thomas  has  likewise 
made  a  release  to  him  and  his  heirs,  whereupon  the  said  Wilham 
has  enfeoffed  the  said  Maud  for  life  with  remainder  to  him  the  said 
William  and  to  his  heirs.  Dated  Westminster,  30  April  46  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  30  April. 

May  5.  Gilbert  le    Norreys  and  William  atte  Wodefal  to  Katherine  who 

Westminster,  was  wife  of  Richard  de  Sutton.  Joint  and  several  recognisance  for 
40i.  payable  by  instalments  ;  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Lancashire. 


432  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


K372.  Membrane  21  d — cont. 

The  said  (Jilbert  and  VVillimn  to  tho  said  Katherine.  Joint  and 
several  recognisance  for  50/.  jjayable  by  instalments  ;  to  be  levied 
etc.  as  before. 

May  9.  William  Hardolf  of  VVyrmegeye  knight  to  Wiiham  de  Sandford  the 

Westminster,  elder.      Recognisance  for  (iUO  juarks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Norffolk. 

Indentures  made  between  Nicholas  de  Dovere  master  of  the 
hos})ital  of  Burton  Seynt  Lazer  without  the  walls  of  Jerusalem  in 
England  and  the  brethren  thereof  his  fellows  of  the  one  part  and 
(ieoffrej'  de  Chaddesden  chaplain,  Sir  Robert  de  Twiford  knight, 
John  Tociiet,  Godfrey  Foljambe  tlie  son  and  John  Courson  of 
Ketleston  of  the  other  part,  witnessing  an  accord  finally  made  in 
presence  of  Sir  Robert  de  Thorp  chancellor  and  others  of  the  council, 
to  wit  that  whereas  debate  ha«  long  been  pending  between  the  said 
Nicholas  and  Geoffrey  for  the  mastery  and  sovereignty  of  the  said 
house,  as  appears  by  divers  evidences,  bulls  and  processes  of  the  court 
of  Rome  produced  before  the  council  on  either  side,  nevertheless 
by  reason  of  this  accord  to  have  peace  henceforward  the  said  Geoffrey 
shall  for  ever  renounce  and  bring  into  the  Arches  and  other  courts  of 
record  by  notarial  instrument  and  otherwise  according  to  law  all 
manner  of  acts,  bulls,  processes  etc.  by  him  sued  or  attempted  to  this 
date  in  regard  to  the  aforesaid  matter  ;  that  all  acts,  bulls  etc.  on  his 
part  delivered  in  chancerj?^  shall  be  given  up  to  the  said  Nicholas  and 
the  brethren  or  else  cancelled  and  annulled  in  chancery  in  presence 
of  the  said  Nicholas  and  others  ;  that  by  deed  under  their  common 
seal  the  said  Nicholas  and  the  brethren  shall  for  them  and  their 
successors  grant  to  the  said  Geoffrey  and  his  party  for  his  life  a  yearly 
rent  of  40  marks  to  be  taken  at  the  college  of  the  Newerk  in  Leycestre 
by  the  hands  of  the  said  Nicholas,  of  other  the  master  of  the  said 
house  for  the  time  being,  or  of  some  other  in  their  name  at  the 
Purification,  Easter,  Midsummer  and  All  Saints  by  even  portions, 
they  giving  acquittances  for  every  payment,  the  first  term  of  payment 
to  be  at  the  Purification  next,  and  if  the  said  rent  shall  at  any  term 
be  six  weeks  in  arrear  the  master  and  brethren  bind  themselves  and 
their  successors  in  double  the  sum  in  arrear  ;  that  the  said  Geoffrey 
and  his  party  shall  bring  against  the  master  and  brethren  a  writ  of 
annuity  returnable  a  month  after  Easter  next,  whereto  the  master 
and  brethren  shall  then  appear  in  the  king's  court  in  person  or  by 
attorney,  and  shall  acknowledge  the  said  deed  and  the  plaintiffs' 
action,  so  that  for  default  of  payment  the  said  plaintiffs  may  sue 
execution  in  all  the  master's  lands,  rents  etc.  ;  the  master  and 
brethren  shall  make  to  the  said  Geoffrey  a  general  release  of  all  actions 
real  and  personal,  and  he  shall  make  them  a  like  release,  and  they 
shall  grant  him  licence  to  dwell  and  go  in  any  honest  place  he  shall 
please  without  impeachment  of  them  or  their  successors,  any  profession 
or  obedience  on  his  part  notwithstanding,  and  that  this  shall  be 
confirmed  b}'^  notarial  instrument  and  by  deed  under  their  common 
seal  ;  that  these  indentures  shall  be  enrolled  in  chancery  ;  and  that 
if  at  any  time  hereafter  the  said  Geoffrey  shall  depart  out  of  the 
realm  or  shall  by  himself  or  any  other  in  his  name  on  either  side 
the  sea  attempt  or  prosecute  aught  contrary  to  this  accord  to  the 
prejudice  thereof  or  of  the  said  house  or  the  estate  of  the  said  now 
master  or  his  successors,  or  shall  of  his  own  will  come  again  and  dwell 


46  EDWARD  III. 


433 


1372.  Membrane  21  d — cont. 

with  the  master  and  brethren  at  their  liouse  to  the  charge  thereof 
in  meat,  raiment  or  maintenance  over  and  above  the  40  marks 
aforesaid,  the  said  annuity  shall  be  null  and  void.  Dated  Burton 
Seint  J^azor  in  chapter,  by  assent  of  the  brethren,  Tuesday  the  day 
of  St.  Hilary  45  Edward  III.     Frerich. 

Mpmorandvm  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  10  May. 

Mevtorandum  of  the  form  in  wliich  brother  Geoffrey  de  Chaddesden, 
brotiicr  of  the  order  of  St.  Lazarus  of  Jeru.salem  and  sometime  master, 
preceptor  or  warden  of  the  house  or  hospital  of  Burton  St.  Lazar  in 
the  diocese  of  Lincoln,  on  10  May  aforesaid  came  in  chancery  and 
renounced  all  right  in  the  said  office,  and  all  suits,  causes  and  pro- 
cesses by  him  or  for  him  had  touching  the  said  hospital  whatsoever. 

Membrane  2M. 

May  10.  Philip  Holgot  of  Herefordshire  to  Godfrey  Foljambe  knight  and 

VVeetminater.  William  Bokebrugc  clerk.     Recognisance  for  20  marks,  to  be  levied, 
in  default  of  paj^nent,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Herefordshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  William. 

April  10.         Hugh  Durburgh  knight  to  Walter  Romesye  knight,  William  Coker, 
\Vestinin.ster.  Henry  Forde  and  Robert  Wyke.     Recognisance  for  100/.,  to  be  levied 
etc.  in  Somerset. 

April  IG.         William  Burton  to  Thomas  de  Aldrustre  of  Warwickshire.     Recog- 
Westminster.  nisance    for    14/.    payable    by    instalments  ;    to    be    levied    etc.    in 
Cumberland. 


April  19.         Ralph    abbot    of    Mussenden    to    Arnald    Savage    knight,    Adam 

Westminster.  Hertvngdon    clerk   archdeacon    of    London,    Phihp    Malweyn,    Hugh 

Mareschall  and  Master  Nicholas  de  Redyng.     Recognisance  for  600/., 

to  be  levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in 

Bu  kinghamshire . 

Indenture  made  between  Walter  Amyas,  John  Abraham,  John  Prat 
clerks,  Ralph  de  Walsham  and  Thomas  Crickelade  of  the  one  part  and 
William  Mulsho,  John  Rouseby,  Thomas  Cook  clerks,  Robert  Belknap, 
William  Halden  and  William  Walworth  of  the  other  part,  witnessing 
a  gift  of  the  manor  of  Brampton  co.  Huntingdon  by  the  said  Walter 
and  others  made  to  the  said  William  and  others,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  upon  condition  that  if  any  of  the  first  party  or  another  for 
them  sliall  pay  to  the  other  parties  or  to  two  of  them  500  marks  on 
the  28th  day  after  Michaelmas  next  in  the  church  of  St.  Michael 
Crokedlane  London,  and  500  marks  on  the  28th  day  after  Easter 
following  in  the  same  place,  the  estate  of  the  second  parties  in  the 
said  manor  shall  cease,  and  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  first  parties  and 
for  their  heirs  to  enter  again  and  hold  the  same  in  their  first  estate, 
provided  that  otherwise  the  same  shall  endure  to  the  second  parties, 
their  heirs  and  assigns  for  ever  quit  of  the  first  parties,  although 
such  payment  be  made  in  another  place,  or  the  first  parties  have 
an  acquittance  or  release  bearing  date  elsewhere  than  in  the  said 
church.     Dated  London,  16  April  46  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  first  parties,  19  April. 

.OB  28 


434  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  2C}d—cont. 

Writing  of  John  do  Hastynge.s  earl  of  Pembroke  lord  of  Weiesford 
and  Bergeveny,  being  a  surrender  to  Walter  Aniyas,  John  Abraham, 
John  Prat  cleiks,  Ralph  de  Walshnni  and  Thomas  Crickcrlade,  to  whom 
he  the  said  earl  lias  madc^  a  fcolTiiient  of  all  his  castles,  manors,  lands, 
rent.s,  fees  and  advowson.s  in  England  and  Wales  except  the  manor 
of  Asshle  CO.  NorfTolk,  of  a  term  of  five  years  commencing  20  March 
43  Edward  III  which  he  had  by  lease  of  the  premises  from  them  ; 
and  a  confirmation  and  (|iiitclaim  of  the  premises  with  the  exception 
aforesaid,  and  warranty  to  them,  their  heirs  and  assigns.  Dated 
his  lodging  in  London,  15  April  40  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  before  the  chancellor,  20  April. 

Charter  of  Walter  Amyas,  John  Abraham,  John  Doun,  John  Prat 
clerks,  Ralph  de  Walsham  and  Thomas  de  Crickelade,  granting  to 
John  earl  of  Pembroke  and  Anne  countess  of  Pembroke  his  wife  for 
life,  with  reversion  to  the  grantors  and  their  heirs,  the  castle  and 
lordship  of  Bergeveny  which  they  had  of  the  said  earl's  gift  and 
feoffment.     Dated  London,  1  May  46  Edward  IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Walter,  John 
Abraham,  John  Prat,  Ralph  and  Thomas,  2  May. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  John  Doun,  4  Maj'. 

May  4.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.     Order  on  sight  of  these  presents  to  cause 

Westminster,  proclamation  to  be  made  that  no  merchant  native  or  alien,  nor  any 
other  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition,  shall  under  pain  of  forfeiture 
after  Whitsuntide  next  presume  to  take  any  wool,  hides  or  woolfells 
to  any  foreign  parts  but  to  the  town  of  Calais  only  as  heretofore  used 
to  be  done  ;  as  by  advice  of  the  council  the  king  has  made  order,  in 
the  same  manner  and  form  as  at  other  times,  that  after  that  date  the 
same  shall  be  taken  to  Calais,  where  it  is  his  will  that  the  staple  of  wool, 
hides  and  woolfells  shall  be  held,  and  not  elsewhere  under  pain  of 
forfeiture.  By  K.  and  C. 

The  like  to  singular  the  sheriffs  throughout  England. 

« 

May  12.  William  Broun  of  York  to  Master  John  de  Branketre  treasurer  of 

Westminster.  York.  Recognisance  for  21/.  9s.  payable  by  instalments  ;  to  be  levied, 
in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Yorksliire. 

June  9.  Thomas    de    Brokhill    to  Walter  Power  and  Nicholas  de  Spaigne 

Westminster,  clerks.  Recognisance  for  60Z.  payable  by  instalments  ;  to  be  levaed 
etc.  in  Kent. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Thomas 
pay  30/.  on  the  days  named  by  even  portions. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Nicholas. 

Membrane  25d. 

May  10.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  set  free  John  Morgan  clerk 
Westminster,  from  Neugate  prison  by  mainprise  of  Master  John  Bryenne  clerk  of 
Devon,  William  Gledesey  and  Giles  Braybroke  of  the  county  (sic)  of 
London  ;  as  lately  upon  information  received  that  the  said  John  Morgan 
purposed  to  depart  to  foreign  parts  in  order  to  prosecute  many  things 
to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  and  crown,  the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs  to 
cause  him  to  appear  before  them,  and  to  compel  him  to  find  mainpernors 


46   EDWARD  III. 


435 


1372.  Membrane  25d — cont. 

who  would  mainpern  him  that  he  should  not  depart  nor  send  thither 
for  the  purpose  aforesaid,  and  if  he  should  refuse,  to  commit  him  to 
the  said  prison  until  he  would  willingly  so  do,  by  virtue  of  which 
command  he  is  taken  by  the  sheriffs  and  imprisoned,  as  appears  by 
certificate  of  tiie  sheriffs  sent  into  chancery  by  the  king's  command  ; 
and  the  said  John  Bryenne,  William  and  Giles  appearing  in  person  in 
chancerj'  have  mainpemed  for  him  under  a  pain  of  100^.  that  he  shall 
not  so  depart  nor  send  to  prosecute  or  attempt  aught  tliat  may  tend 
to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  crown  or  to  be  derogatory  to  the  laws 
of  the  realm. 

May  11.  Thomas  Langford  knight  to  Frank  de  Scolond.     Recognisance  for 

Weitininater.  200/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Berkshire. 

Indenture  made  between  Thomas  de  Langford  knight  and  Frank 
de  Scoland,  being  a  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance  made 
for  the  greater  security  of  the  said  Frank,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  so 
long  as  they  may  hold  and  enjoy  the  manor  of  Fifhlde  Langeford  co. 
Somerset,  whereof  the  said  Sir  Thomas  has  made  them  a  ciiarter  of 
feoffment,  without  losing  the  same  by  judgment  or  reasonable  entry 
or  charges  thereupon  laid  by  recognisance,  rent  charge,  by  true  cause, 
action  or  matter  begun  before  this  date  without  fraud  or  covin,  saving 
rent  service  ;  and  in  case  without  colhision  and  fraud  they  shall  so 
lose  the  value  of  the  said  manor  the  same  shall  be  put  in  execution,  and 
a  proportion  thereof  in  case  they  shall  lose  parcel  of  the  same  ;  and 
in  case  within  ten  years  from  this  date  the  said  Frank,  his  heirs  or 
assigns,  find  no  true  matter  or  cause  whereby  in  time  to  come  they 
may  be  troubled  by  action  for  dower,  entail,  recognisance,  or  rent 
charge  arising  before  this  date,  the  said  recognisance  .shall  be  void, 
and  the  said  Frank  or  his  executors  shall  be  bound  to  deliver  up  the 
same.     Dated  Westminster,  12  May  46  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandiim  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Frank,  12  May. 


May  14.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  to  stay  altogether,  in  regard  to 

Westminster.  Thomas  parson  of  St.  Botolph  without  Bisshopesgate  London  only, 
the  execution  of  the  king's  writ  hereinafter  mentioned,  the  same 
remaining  in  force  as  regards  the  others  therein  named  ;  as  lately 
upon  information  received  that  contrary  to  the  proclamation  the  said 
parson  and  certain  others  purposed  to  pass  towards  foreign  parts  in 
order  to  prosecute  many  things  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  and  great 
number  of  his  people,  and  to  send  the  same  into  the  realm  for  execution, 
the  king  by  writ  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  cause  the  said  parson  and  those 
others  to  come  before  them,  and  to  compel  them  to  find  mainpernors 
who  would  mainpern  every  one  of  them  under  a  set  pain  that  they  should 
not  depart  nor  send  thither  for  the  purpose  aforesaid,  and  if  they  should 
refuse,  to  cause  them  to  be  kept  honourably  under  safe  custody  until 
they  would  willingly  so  do  ;  and  John  Holand  of  Lincolnshire,  Richard 
Rotour  parson  of  Quykham  of  Northumberland  and  John  Yeuel  of 
Lincolnshire,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainpemed  for 
the  said  Thomas  under  a  pain  of  100  marks  that  he  shall  not  depart 
nor  send  to  foreign  parts  as  aforesaid. 


43«i  (^ALENDAK    OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  25d — cont. 

June  15,  To   tlie   sheriffs   of   London.     Order   to   set   free    Matthew   Meynot 

VVcstminflter.  chaplain  from  Xeiigate  prison  l)y  mainprise  of  John  Wyske  of  London 
'  taillour,'  William  S(Jinei*ford  of  London,  David  Ji<jdyngton  of  London 
and  John  W'alissh  of  London  ;  as  lately  upon  information  received 
that  tlie  said  Matthew  i)urj}osed  to  depart  to  foreign  parts  in  order 
to  prosecute  many  things  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  and  crown,  the 
king  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  cause  liim  to  appear  befoie  tliem  and  comiH-l 
him  to  find  mainpernors  who  would  mainpein  him  that  he  should  not 
depart  nor  .send  thither  for  that  purpose,  and  if  he  should  refuse,  to 
commit  him  to  the  said  prison  there  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  until 
he  would  willingly  so  do,  by  virtue  of  which  command  he  is  by  the 
sheriff's  taken  ancl  imprisoned  as  appi^ars  by  tlieir  certificate  sent  into 
chancery  at  the  king's  command  ;  and  the  said  John  Wyske  and 
others  appearing  in  perscm  in  chancery  have  mainperned  for  him  under 
a  pain  of  40/.  that  he  shall  not  so  depart  or  send  to  prosecute  or  attempt 
aught  that  may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  crown  or  to  be 
derogatory  to  the  laws  of  the  realm. 

May  14.  To  the  arrayers  in  Kent  of  men  at  arms,  armed  men,  hobblers  and 

Westminster,  archers,  and  to  the  sheriff  of  the  county.  Order,  under  pain  of 
forfeiture,  to  leave  over  all  else  and  ceasing  every  excuse  to  cause  all 
the  fencible  men  of  the  county  to  be  arrayed  with  all  speed  according 
to  the  statute  of  Winchester  and  according  to  their  commission, 
furnished  with  competent  arms  according  to  their  estate,  and  put  in 
thousands,  hundreds  and  twenties,  so  that  they  be  ready  at  all  times 
to  resist  the  king's  enemies  of  France  and  to  repulse  their  maUce  and 
insolence  when  peril  shall  there  threaten  ;  order  also  on  the  king's 
behalf  to  warn  all  men  dwelling  upon  the  sea  coast  in  Kent  without 
delay  to  make  ready  the  signals  called  '  bekynes  '  and  other  signals 
and  watches  upon  the  coast,  so  that  all  the  country  may  be  warned 
of  the  enemies'  coming  in  order  to  oppose  them  if  they  shall  presume 
to  invade  those  parts  ;  and  order  to  the  sheriff  to  cause  all  he  shall 
find  rebellious  herein  to  be  arrested  and  imprisoned  until  the  king  shall 
take  other  order  concerning  their  punishment ;  as  the  king  has 
particular  information  that  the  said  enemies  and  their  adherents  have 
assembled  at  sea  a  great  fleet  of  ships  and  galleys  AAith  a  host  of  armed 
men,  purposing  as  speedily  as  they  may  to  invade  the  realm  in  Kent 
in  order  so  far  as  in  them  lies  to  overcome  and  destroy  the  king  and 
his  people,  and  with  God's  help  the  king  would  oppose  their  malice, 
and  provide  for  the  safety  of  the  realm  as  he  is  bound  to  do. 

By  bill  of  the  lord  de  Latymer  the  chamberlain. 
The  like  to  the  foilo\\'ing  : 

The  arrayers  in  Surrey  and  Sussex  respectively,  and  the  sheriffs 

of  those  counties. 
Wilham  de  Latymer  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of 

the  Cinque  Ports  or  his  lieutenant,  to  execute  the  premises 

within  the  liberty  of  the  Cinque  Ports,  omitting  the  words 

*  according  to  their  commis.sion.' 

June  2.  Thomas    Hervy    clerk,   Walter    Mile    clerk   and   John    Cassy    the 

Westminster,  younger  to  Richard  de  Ravenesere  archdeacon   of   Lincoln.      Joint 

and  several    recognisance    for    200    marks    payable  by  instalments  ; 


46  EDWARD  lU.  437 


1372.  Membrane  25d — cont. 

to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  tlieir  landM  and  eliattelis  in 
\V'orcestershire. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Thomas, 
N\^alter  and  Jolin  or  one  of  them  pay  100  marks  at  tho  terms  mentioned 
by  even  portions. 

Note  of  payment  of  50  marks  for  the  term  of  the  Purification. 

Cancelled  on  paijment. 

June  3.  Walter  Alile  clerk  and  Robert  Ketford  to  Thomas  Hervy  clerk  and 

Weatmineter.  John  Cassy  the  younger.     Joint  and  .several  recognisance  for  400  marks 
payable  by  instalments  ;    to  be  levied  etc.  in  Worcestosliire. 
Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledycd  by  the  aaid  Thoma-s. 

Writing  of  Henry  son  and  heir  of  Mark  Huse,  being  a  reh^ase  to 
Johnde  Kyngesfold,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  I'adyngdene 
CO.  Surrey.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Ralph  Spigcrm^l  knight.  Sir  Nicholas 
de  Lovayne  knight,  William  Haldene,  recorder  of  London,  William 
Tauke,  \\'illiam  de  Nywedegate.  Dated  Westminster,  20  October 
39  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  June  this  year. 

Membrane  24fZ. 

Writing  of  Nicholas  de  Doveria  master  of  tlu;  hos^ntal  of  Burton 
St.  Lazarus  and  the  brethien  his  fellows,  giving  to  Geotfrey  de 
Chaddosden  cha})lain,  Robert  de  Twiford  kniglit  and  Godfrey 
Folejaumbe  the  younger  a  ytuirly  rent  of  40  maiTis  tluring  the  said 
Geoffrey's  life,  to  be  taken  at  the  collegiate  church  called  the  Newerk 
in  Ijeycestre  by  the  hands  of  the  said  master  and  his  successors  or  of 
their  deputies  at  four  terms  of  the  year  by  even  portions,  namely  at 
the  Purification,  Easter,  Midsummer  and  All  Saints,  the  first  payimmt 
being  at  the  Purification  next,  hereby  binding  for  ])ayment  of  the 
same  theinselves  and  their  successors,  their  house  of  Burton  ami  all 
their  possessions  into  whose  hands  soever  they  shall  come.  Dated 
the  chapter  Jmuse  at  Burton,  Monday  the  feast  of  St.  Wolstan 
45  Edward  UL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Nicholas,  11  May  this 
year. 

Indenture  witnessing  the  defeasance  of  a  grant  made  by  Nicholas 
de  Dovere  master  of  the  hospital  of  Burton  Seint  Lazer  and  the 
brethren  his  fellows  to  Geoflfrtw  tie  Chaddosden  chaplain,  Sir  Robert 
de  Twyford  knight  and  Godfrey  Folejaumbe  the  younger  of  a  yearly 
rent  of  40  marks  to  be  taken  at  the  collegiate  church  of  Newerk 
Leycestre  during  tlici  said  Geoffrey's  life  at  four  terms  of  the  year,  in 
case  the  said  (Jeoftrey  in  time  to  come  shall  go  or  send  out  of  the  realm 
or  do  aught,  or  in  case  aught  be  done  or  attempted  by  him  or  by  any 
other  in  his  nanu^  contrary  to  the  accord  contained  in  another  indenture 
bearing  date  Tuesday  the  feast  of  St.  Hilary  45  E(h\ard  111  and  made 
between  the  said  master  and  brethren  of  the  one  jiart  and  the  said 
Geoffrey,  Sir  Robert  and  Godfrey,  John  Tochet  and  John  Courson  of 
Ketteleston  of  th<'  other  part,  or  in  case  aught  be  iienceforw  ard 
attempted  or  prosecuted  on  either  side  the  sea  by  him  or  by  auotlun* 
in  his  name  to  the  prejudice  or  hurt  of  the  said  master  or  his  successors 
or  of  the  said  house,  or  in  case  the  said  Geoffrey  shall  come  to  dwell  with 


438  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  24d — cont. 

the  said  master,  his  suecessors  or  the  bretliren  at  their  costs,  or  do  aught 
to  charge  the  said  house  or  the  lands  of  the  hospital  for  meat,  raiment 
or  any  other  charge  or  maintenance  over  and  above  the  said  rent. 
Dated  Xe«erk  in  Leycestre,  Tuesday  before  Ascension  day 
46  Edward  111.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  11  May. 

NN'riting  of  Geoffrey  de  Chaddesden  chaplain,  Robert  de  Twiford 
knight  and  Godfrey  Eolejaumbc  the  younger,  being  a  release  to 
Nicholas  de  Dovere  master  of  the  hospital  of  Burton  Seint  Lazer 
without  the  walls  of  Jerusalem  in  England  and  the  brethren  his  fellows 
of  all  actions  of  covenant  or  debt  which  they  might  have  against  the 
said  master  or  brethren  or  against  the  said  master  or  his  successors 
by  virtue  of  indentures  made  between  the  said  master  and  brethren  of 
the  one  part  and  the  said  Geoffrey,  Robert  and  Godfre3%  John  Tochet 
and  John  Courson  of  Ketteleston  of  the  other  part,  dated  Tuesday 
the  feast  of  St.  Hilary  45  Edward  III  and  enrolled  in  chancery  10  May 
46  Edward  III  ;  reciting  that  debate  was  sometime  moved  betw  een  the 
said  Geoftrej'  and  Nicholas  for  the  lordship  and  mastery  of  the  said 
hospital,  and  that  to  appease  the  same  accord  was  made  before 
Sir  Robert  de  Thorp  the  chancellor  in  a  form  in  the  said  indentures 
contained.     Dated   11  May  46  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  II  May. 

May  10.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  York.     Order  without 

Westminster,  delay  to  cause  the  offal  and  blood  of  great  beasts  slain  in  the  said 
city,  their  dung  and  ordure  to  be  laid  and  cast  in  the  places  where 
they  used  to  be  laid  and  cast  of  old  time,  or  to  appoint  another  place 
where  the  same  may  be  laid  and  covered  up  without  the  city  or  else- 
where where  less  hurt  and  inconvenience  may  arise  to  holy  church 
and  the  people  therein,  causing  proclamation  to  be  made  in  the  said 
city  and  the  suburbs  thereof  on  the  king's  behalf  forbidding  any 
butcher  or  other  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition,  under  pain  of 
100s.  to  be  levied  to  the  king's  use  for  every  offence,  to  lay  or  cast  or 
cause  to  be  laid  any  such  offal,  blood,  dung  or  ordure  near  the  gates 
or  walls  of  the  friars  minors  or  within  the  space  of  200  feet  from  the 
same  ;  as  by  complaint  made  on  behalf  of  the  warden  and  convent 
of  the  friars  minors  of  York  it  is  shewn  the  king  that  the  butchers  of 
the  city  and  their  servants  have  newly  been  casting  and  do  daily  cast 
and  lay  the  aforesaid  filth  near  their  walls  and  gates  as  well  in  the  river 
Use  as  between  the  river  and  their  walls,  wherefore  the  air  in  their 
church  is  poisoned  by  the  stench  there  generated  as  well  around  the 
altars  w  here  the  Lord's  body  is  daily  ministered  as  in  other  their  houses, 
and  flies  and  other  vermin  are  thereby  bred  and  enter  their  church  and 
houses,  so  that  as  well  the  lords  and  noble  persons  of  the  country 
flocking  to  the  city  as  the  good  men  of  the  city  who  used  to  come  to 
their  church  to  hear  mass  and  to  pray  are  withdrawing  themselves 
because  of  the  stench  and  the  horrible  sights,  shrinking  from  them 
and  avoiding  to  repair  thither,  and  it  is  feared  that  sickness  and 
manifold  other  harm  will  thereby  arise  to  the  friars  and  other  of  the 
people  unless  a  speedy  remedy  be  applied  ;  and  the  king  would  prevent 
such  peril  and  hurt,  and  would  make  provision  so  far  as  he  may  for 
the  honour  of  holy  church.  By  K. 


46   EDWARD   III.  439 


1372.  Mevihrane  2Ad — conl. 

April  22.         To  the  sheriff  of  York.     Order  to  cause  a  regard  to  be  made  in  the 
Westminster,  forest  of  (laltres   according  to  the  form  of  ti\e  aipilula  which  foHow, 
so  that  the  same  be  made  before  Michaelmas  ne.\t. 

Capilula. 
May  5.  The  like,  to  the  sheriff  of  Notyngham,  to  cause  a  regard  to  bo  made 

Westminster,  in  Sliirewodc  forest. 

Membrane  23rf. 

Charter  of  Edmund  de  Revers,  giving  to  Nigel  Loryng  knight  and 
his  heirs  the  messuages,  lands,  rents,  services  and  reversions  of  the 
gi'antor  in  Treglasta,  Trevyvan  and  Poluath  co.  Cornwall,  and  all 
other  messuages,  lands  etc.  in  tlie  said  county  which  one  Robert 
Bysschop  has  claimed  by  gift  of  John  de  Revers  nephew  of  the  said 
PJdmund,  as  fully  as  John  de  Revers  father  of  the  said  Edmund  ever 
held  the  same  ;  and  quitclaim  \\ith  warranty  of  the  jiremises  to  tho 
said  Nigel,  his  heirs  and  assigns.  Witnesses  :  Henry  Persay,  Robert 
de  Hacche,  John  Tremayn,  Richard  Norton,  John  Notton.  Dated 
12  June  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  15  June. 

June  18.  William  de  Raghton  and  John  de  Burgh  to  Richard  de  Ravenesere 

Westminster,  clerk.     Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  405.,  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  ])ayment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Cumberland. 

Mrmoramlum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  William 
and  John  or  one  of  them  pay  '2,2s.  id.  at  Michaelmas  next. 

June  20.  To   the  sheiifT  of  Kent.     Strict  order  on  sight  of   these   ]>resents 

Westminster,  forthwith  to  make  incjuisition  of  the  constables  of  singular  the  towns 

of  Kent  upon  the  sea  coast  and  the  river  Thames,  within  liberties 

and  w  ithout,  what  seamen  and  how  many  of  every  town  are  taken  to 

furnish  the  king's  ships,  by  whom,  and  for  what  ship,  and  concerning 

the  number,  nauu^s  and  cognisances  of  such  seamen,  and  all  extortions 

and  grievances  in  those  parts  committed  by  the  masters  and  seamen 

of   the   king's  ships,   upon   whom   and   in   what   manner  committed, 

without  delay   certifying   luider   seal   in   chancer}^   his   action   in   the 

matter,  and  sending  again  this  wiit  ;   as  the  king  is  informed  that  the 

masters  and  seamen  of  his  ships  are  taking  to  them  great  number  of 

seamen  for  furnishing  thereof  more  than  need  was,  and  from  certain 

of  them  are  extorting  divers  fines  by  threats  and  otherwise,  by  colour 

,  of  the  king's  ships  committing  many  other  grievances  against  his 

people,  whereat  he  is  moved  to  anger  ;    and   he  would  be  certified 

touching  the  premises.  By  K.  and  C. 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  sheriff  of  Middlesex, 

The  sheriff  of  Surrey. 

The  sheriff  of  Essex. 

The  sheriffs  of  London,  mutatis-  mutandis,  to  make  inquisition  in 
like  form  of  the  aldermen  of  singular  the  wards  of  the  city  of 
London. 

Writing  of  Hugh  Picard  and  Nicholas  Westurdale,  being  a  joint 
and  several  bond  to  William  Mareschal  rector  of  Merstone  in  100 
marks,  payable  in  the  cliurch  of  Merstone  co.  Bedford  at  Michaelmas 
next.     Dated  Merstone,  Monday  before  St.  John  Baptist  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  22  June. 


440 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1372. 


Membrane  23d — cont. 


June  25. 
VVostminster. 


Writing  of  John  Popel  '  puitcr,'  being  a  (|uitclaini  witli  warranty  to 
John  Curteys  of  W'yniyngton  and  Gilbert  Chaunij)cncys  mcrcixants, 
tlieir  hoirs  ami  assigns,  ot  all  the  lands,  rents  ami  services  sometime 
of  John  Geryn  in  the  parish  of  St.  Jiotolph  without  Bisshopesgate 
in  the  suburb  of  London.  Witnesses  :  Riehard  Rook,  John  Boterwyk, 
Robert  (Jy,  Roger  Sudbury,  William  Hulle.  Dated  Westmin-ster, 
Tuesda}'  after  St.  Barnabas  46  Edward  III. 

Memomndum  of  acknowledgment,  23  June,  before  William  de 
Burstall  keeper  of  the  rolls  of  chancery. 

Gilbert  de  Culwen  knight  to  Alice  Pereres.  Recognisance  for  500^., 
to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  liis  lands  and  chattels  in 
Cumberland. 

Cancelled  oh  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  aaid  Alice  before  John  de 
Freton  clerk  by  virtue  oj  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus  potestatem  which 
is  on  the  file  for  the  50th  year. 

^\^riting  of  Robert  de  Thorp  knight,  granting  to  John  Knyvet 
knight,  Richard  de  Treton  clerk,  John  de  Herleston  clerk  and  Jolm 
de  Bretton,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  300/.  to  be  taken 
of  all  the  said  Robert's  lands  in  Histon,  Lolle worth,  Hokyton,  Long- 
stanton  and  Hynton  and  of  his  manors  of  Histon,  Lolleworth  and 
Longstanton  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions,  with  power 
to  distrain  for  arrears.     Dated  London,  1  June  4(5  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Thorp  knight  the  elder,  giving  with  warranty 
to  the  chapel  of  St.  Mary  Makeseye  and  the  chaplains  there  and  to 
their  successors  a  yearly  rent  of  406'.  to  be  taken  of  all  his  lands  in 
Nunton  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions,  with  power  to 
distrain  for  arrears.  Witnesses  :  WiUiam  de  Burstall,  John  de 
Herleston  clerk,  John  de  Bretton  and  Richard  de  Treton  clerk.  Dated 
London,  1  June  46  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Thorpe  knight  the  elder,  granting  to  Jolm 
Knyvet  knight,  Richard  de  Treton  and  John  de  Herleston  clerks  and 
John  de  Bretton  and  to  their  heirs  a  yearly  rent  of  300/.  to  be  taken 
of  his  manors  of  Makeseye,  Helpeston  and  Pilketon  and  of  aU  his 
lands  in  Nunton  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions,  with 
po\\  er  to  distrain  for  arrears.     Dated  London,  29  June  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acloiowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings, 
29  June  in  the  inn  of  the  bishop  of  Salisbuiy  in  Fletstrete  in  the  suburb 
of  London  wheic  the  said  Robert  dwelt,  before  W^iUiam  de  Burstall 
keeper  of  the  roUs  of  chancery. 

Writing  of  Peter  Fauelore,  being  a  general  release  to  William  atte 
Broke  of  Neweton  by  Sudbury  the  elder,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all 
actions  and  demands,  leal  and  personal  to  this  date.  Witnesses  : 
John  de  Sudbury,  John  Reveshale,  John  Roughend.  Dated  London, 
1  July  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery,  1  July. 

July  2.  John  Mott  to  John  Froille.     Recognisance  for  9/.  65.,  to  be  levied, 

Westminster,  in  default   of  payment,   of  his   lands   and  chattels  in  the  county  of 
Suthampton. 


46   EDWARD    HI.  441 


137*2,  Membrane  2'6d — coiU. 

July  3.  Tlionias  Hflc  of  Stokgoklvngton  to  Kiclmrd  StalTord  knight  and  Alice 

Westminster.  Jioudon.     Hecogiiiisanff  for  100/.,  to  be  leviftl  etc-,  in  IJukinghanishire. 
Caiicelltd  on  }Kn/nu'7il,  acknowlc'dffid  hi/  (he  said  Richard. 

The  abbot  of  Neubo  to  \Villiani  de  Boughbriggt!  elcrk.   Kfcogni.sanco 
for  10  marks  payable  by  in.stalment.s  ;   to  l)e  levied  etc.  in  Lincolnshire. 
Cancelled  on  paynient. 

Jidy  6.  Nicholas  Gunwardby  of  Colworthe  and  John  Weishe  viear  of  Col- 

Westminster,  worthe  to  John  Fitz  Richard  of  Olneye.     Recognisance  for  10/.,  to  be 
levied  etc.  in  Norhaniptonshire. 

Writing  of  Roger  Jolif,  being  a  ([uitclaini  to  John  Aubray,  William 
Newerk  chaplain  and  Thomas  Hanamstede,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a 
messuage  in  Abyndon  sometime  of  Philip  Swone.  Witnesses  :  John 
Warde,  Wilham  iStiete,  William  Venoui',  Richard  lirounz,  John 
Wythegennulle,  Robert  Bullok,  William  Tatyn.  Dated  Thursday  after 
the  Translation  of  8t.  Thomas  4G  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  8  July. 

Membrane  -lid. 

Writing  of  Edmund  de  Revers.  giving  to  Nigel  Loryng  knight,  his 
hell's  and  assigns,  lOO.s-.  of  yearly  n>nt  at  Michaelmas  to  \)v  taken  of  all 
the  said  Edmunds  lands  in  I'ymleven  co.  Worcester,  with  pctwer  to 
distrain  for  arrears.  Dated  12  June  40  Edward  Hi.  Witnesses: 
Henry  Persay,  Robert  de  Hacche,  Jt)hn  Tremayn,  Richard  Norton, 
John  Notton. 

Memorandum  oi  acknowledgment,   15  June. 

June  7.  Bartholomew  son  of  \Villiam   Langriche  clerk   (clericus)  is  sent  to 

Westminster,  thi'  abbot  and  convent  of  Waltham  Holy  Cross,  to  take  a  yearly  pension 

thereof  by  reason  of  the  abbot's  new  creation,  until  they  shall  make 

provision  for  him  of  a  benefice.  By  P-s.  [29205.] 

Writing  of  Ralph  Wynchestre  '  glouvere  '  of  London,  being  a  (quit- 
claim A\ith  warranty  to  John  Curteys  of  Wymyngton  and  Gilbert 
Cliaujnpeneys  meichants,  their  heirs  and  a.ssigns,  of  all  the  lands,  rents 
and  services  sometime  of  John  Geryn  grandfather  of  the  said  Ralph 
in  the  parish  of  St.  Botolph  without  Bisshopesgate  in  the  suburb  of 
London.  Witnesses  :  Richard  Rook,  John  Boterwyk,  Bobert  iiy, 
Roger  Sudburv,  William  Hulle.  Dated  Westminster,  Tuesday  after 
St.  Barnabas  40  Edw  aril  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  16  June. 

June  28.  William    de    Bello    Can>])o    knight    to    Bichard    earl    of    Arundell. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  2,000  maiks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  j)ayment,  of 
his  lands  and  chattels  in  Worcestershire. 
Cancelled  on  jmyment. 

July  13.  Thomas  de  BcUo  Campo  earl  of  Warrewyk  to  Richard  earl  of  Arundell 

Westminster,  and  Surrey.   Recognisance  for  1,000/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Worcestershire. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  aeknmvlrdgcd  by  h'irhard  now  earl  of  Arundell, 

John  de  Arundell  and  Edicard  de  l^ancto  Johanne  executors  of  the  late 

earl  of  Arundell. 


442 


CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1372. 
Julv  13. 


Membrane  22d — coni. 


Thomas  de  Bello  Cainpo  i-ail  of  W'arnnvyk,  William  dc  Burton 
Westminster,  knight,  Richard  de  Piriton,  John  dc  Harrcwode,  John  dc  Xorhampton 
and  Henry  de  Ardcrnc  to  Richard  carl  of  Arundcll  and  Surrey. 
Recognisance  for  2,000  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Warwickshire. 

Cancelled  on  ijayment. 


Charter  of  John  son  of  Robert  de  Malmesbiry,  giving  with  warranty 
to  William  son  of  John  Pccche  citizen  and  alderman  (civis  et  alder inanni) 
of  London  2|  acres  of  meadow  called  the  Northmcde  in  Shorham  as 
the  same  lie  in  length  eastward  and  westward  between  the  lands 
of  Preston  and  the  river  running  from  Shorham  towards  Lullyngeston 
castle, in  breadth  southw ard and  nortliward  between  a  meadow^ of  Roger 
Chaundos  and  a  meadow  of  Robert  atte  Lese,  which  he  the  said  John 
son  of  Robert  had  of  the  gift  of  Thomas  Ruget  chaplain.  Witnesses : 
Sir  Nicholas  Bonde,  Sir  Thomas  Morant  knights,  John  Iselde,  Geoffrey 
Walden,  Nicholas  Raker,  Robert  Courtayse.  Dated  Wednesday  before 
the  Translation  of  St.  Thomas  46  Edw  ard  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  July. 

June  28.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  set  free  brother  John  Burdet  a 
Westminster,  monk  of  Ecclcsfeld  priory  from  Neugate  prison  by  mainprise  of  Simon 
de  Leek  of  Notynghamshire,  John  de  Mountcneye  of  Yorkshire,  John 
de  Holand  of  London  and  Richard  de  Ughtibrigge  of  Yorkshire  ;  as 
lately  upon  information  received  that  the  said  monk  purposed  to  depart 
to  [foreign]  parts  in  order  to  prosecute  many  things  to  the  prejudice 
of  the  king  and  crown,  the  king  ordered  the  slieriffs  to  cause  him  to 
come  before  them  and  conijjel  him  to  find  mainpernors  who  would 
mainpern  him  that  he  should  not  depart  nor  send  thither  for  the 
purpose,  and  if  he  should  refuse,  to  commit  him  to  the  said  prison  to  be 
kept  in  safe  custody  until  he  would  willingly  so  do,  by  virtue  of  which 
command  he  is  by  theni  taken  and  imprisoned  as  the  king  has  learned  ; 
and  the  said  Simon  and  otliers,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  lia\  e 
niainperned  for  him  under  a  pain  of  40/.  that  he  shall  not  depart  nor 
send  to  foreign  parts  in  order  to  prosecute  or  attempt  aught  that  may 
tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  crow  n  or  to  be  derogatory  to  the 
laws  of  the  realm. 


June  26.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  set  free  brother  Jolin  Burdet 
Westminster,  a  monk  of  Ecclesfeld  j)riory  from  Neugate  prison,  and  to  stay  the 
further  execution  of  the  king's  writ  in  regard  to  Robert  Cryst  chaplain, 
John  Gunnays  and  John  Mounteneye  the  younger,  by  mainprise  of 
Simon  de  Leeke  knight  of  Notinghamshire,  John  de  Holand  of  London, 
Richard  Ughtibrigge  and  Robert  Mundesdere  of  Yorkshire  ;  as  lately 
the  king  ordered  the  slieriffs  to  cause  the  said  monk,  Robert  Crj'^st, 
John  Gunnays  and  John  Mounteneye  to  come  before  them,  and  compel 
them  to  find  mainpernors  who  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriffs  set 
would  mainpern  them  that  they  should  cause  or  procure  no  hurt  to  the 
person  of  William  Fulmere  vicar  of  Ecclesfeld,  and  if  they  should  refuse, 
to  commit  them  to  the  said  prison  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  until  they 
would  willingly  so  do,  by  virtue  of  which  writ  the  said  monk  is  by  the 
sheriffs  taken  and  imprisoned  as  the  king  has  learned  ;  and  the  said 
Simon  and  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainpemed 


46  EDWARD   III. 


443 


1372.  Alembrane  22d — cont. 

as  aforesaid  for  the  .said  monk  and  tiic  others  named  under  a  pain  of 
20  marks. 

June  26.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.  Order  by  mainprise  of  8imon  de  Leeke 
Westminster,  knight  of  Notinghamshire,  John  de  Holand  of  London,  Richard 
Ughtibriggc  and  Robert  de  Mounde-sdere  of  Yorkshire  to  stay  the 
further  execution  of  the  king's  writ  in  regard  to  brother  John  Burdet 
a  monk  of  Kcclesfekl  })riory,  John  Mounteneye  the  younger,  Robert 
Cryst  chaplain  and  Jolm  tiunneys  clerk  ;  as  lately  by  writ  tlie 
king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  cause  the  said  monk  and  tiie  others 
named  to  come  before  him,  and  compel  them  to  find  mainpernors 
mIio  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriff  laid  upon  them,  for  which 
he  would  answer,  would  mainpern  them  that  they  should  cause  or 
procure  no  hurt  not  harm  to  William  Fulmere  vicar  of  Ecclesfeld,  and 
if  they  should  refuse,  to  commit  them  to  the  king's  nearest  prison 
etc.  (as  above)  ;  but  the  said  Simon  and  others  etc.  have  mainperned 
for  the  said  monk  etc.  that  they  shall  not  cause  nor  procure  any  harin 
or  hurt  to  the  said  vicar's  person. 

Membrane  2ld. 

Writing  of  John  de  Kyngesfold,  being  a  bond  to  Henry  Huse,  son 
and  heir  of  Sir  Mark  Huse  knight,  in  a  yearly  pension  of  10  marks  for 
life  to  be  taken  of  all  the  said  John's  lands  at  Padyngdene  co.  Surrey  at 
Whitsuntide  and  Martinmas  by  even  portions,  with  power  to  distrain 
for  arrears  in  the  said  lands  and  in  all  the  said  John's  lands  at 
Kyngesfold  co.  Sussex.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Ralph  Spigurnel  knight, 
Sir  Nicholas  de  l^ovayne  knight,  William  Haldene  recorder  of  London, 
William  Tauk,  William  de  Nvwedegate.  Dated  Westminster, 
20  October  30  Edward  lU. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  June  this  year. 

June  7.  John  de  Clynton  knight   to  William  de  Rokesburgh.  Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  200  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Kent. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 


June  S.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order,  for  particular  causes  laid  before 

Westminster,  the  king  and  council,  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  that  all  and 
singular  the  merchants  and  others  of  w  hatsoever  estate  or  condition 
\\\\o  w  ill  take  corn  to  foreign  parts  may  by  themselves  or  their  servants 
law  fully  carry  over  all  manner  of  corn  w  ithout  let  to  whatsoever  parts 
they  please  over  sea,  being  of  the  king's  friendship,  to  make  their 
advantage  of  the  same,  any  ordinance  or  command  to  the  contrary 
notwithstanding.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Focdera.^ 

The  like  to  singular  the  sheriffs  throughout  England,  to  cause 
proclamation  to  be  made  as  aforesaid. 

{Ihid.^ 

June  8.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.     Order,  for  particular  causes 

Westminster,  laid  before  the  king  and  council,  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  on 

the   king's  behalf  forbidding  any   merchant   or  otiier  of   whatsoever 

estate  or  condition  secretly  or  openly  w  ithout  the  king's  special  lic.ence, 


444 


CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1372. 


Mertihrant  2ld — conl. 


uiidiT  pain  of  forft'ituro  thereof,  to  take  or  cause  to  be  taken  white 
w  ines  or  red  or  any  otlier  wines  to  any  foreign  parts.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Fa;dera.\ 
The  Uke  to  tlie  following  : 

The  mayor  and  bailifTs  of  Bristol  and  two  other  towns. 
The  bailiffs  of  Plyumth  and  four  other  towns. 
W'ilhani  de  Latymer  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of 
the  Cinque  Ports  or  liis  lieutenant. 
[Ibid.] 

June  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lancaster.  Order,  upon  the  jietition  of  f^dmund 
Westminster,  de  Culwen,  if  he  is  imprisoned  in  default  of  Hnding  security  for  his  good 
behaviour  toward  the  king  and  his  people  and  for  no  other  cause,  to 
set  him  free  by  mainprise  of  John  de  Burgh  of  Westmorland  and 
Richard  de  Rigby  of  Lancashire  ;  as  at  the  suit  of  certain  his  enemies 
the  said  Edmund  is  by  the  sheriff'  taken  and  imprisoned  until  he  shall 
hnd  security  as  aforesaid,  and  has  prayed  for  release  ;  and  the  said 
John  and  Richard  ha\e  niainperned  for  his  good  behaviour  under  a 
pain  of  40  marks,  and  the  king  would  not  that  he  be  longer  imprisoned 
for  that  cause. 

June  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lancaster.  Order  to  deliver  to  bail  Edmund  de 
VVestiniiiBter.  Culwen  who  is  taken  and  imprisoned  in  the  king's  prison  of  Lancastre 
for  an  alleged  trespass  of  venison  in  the  forest  of  Quernemore  of  Joim 
duke  of  Lancastre  the  king's  son  for  which  lie  is  indicted,  if  replevisable 
according  to  the  assize  of  the  forest,  provided  that  he  shall  find  twelve 
true  men  of  the  sheriff's  bailiwick  who  shall  mainpern  to  have  \\un  before 
the  justices  next  in  eyre  for  pleas  of  the  forest  in  Lancashire  when 
they  shall  come  to  those  parts  in  order  to  stand  to  right  concerning  that 
trespass,  and  to  bring  before  the  said  justices  [the  names]  of  the  twelve 
men,  and  this  writ. 

June  12.  Walter  do  Romseyc  knight  to   W^illiaiu   de  Clifton  clerk.     Recog- 

VVestminster.  nisance  for  20/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  jjayment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Somerset. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

June  13.  William  de  Elmham,  William  de  Kerdeston  and  Ralph  de  Shelton 

Westminster,  knights  to  the  king.     Recognisance  for  1,000  marks,  to  be  levied  etc. 
in  Norft'olk. 

Note  that  this  recognisance  was  taken  by  the  chancellor. 

Writing  of  William  son  of  John  Caperoun  of  Estreed  co.  Hertford, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  ^\■arranty  to  Richard  CliaumberlavTi  chaplain, 
Jolni  Beaucliamp  of  Alflatewyk,  Thomas  atte  More,  Agnes  Prentis, 
Thomas  Hostiller  of  Berkway,  Adam  Edmond  and  Isabel  his  wife, 
Thomas  Salman  of  Berk\\ay  and  Geoffrey  Hode,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  all  lands,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  rents  and  services 
sometime  of  John  Caperoun  father  of  tlio  said  WilUam,  whose  heir  he 
is,  which  they  severally  hold  in  the  towns  of  Buklond,  Wydyhale, 
Neusell,  Berkway  and  Rede.  Dated  Berkway  co.  Hertford,  Monday 
after  St.  Barnabas  46  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  17  June. 


46   EDWARD   III.  445 


1372.  Membrane  21  rf — cont. 

June  19.  Reynold  de  Gavelacrc  of  tlie  eonnty  <>f  Suthanipton  to  Master  John 

Westniinater.  de  liranketre  treasurer  of  the  eluircih  of  St.  Pcder  N'ork.  Kecogiiisanco 
for  120/,  payable  by  instalments  ;  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  hi.s  lands  and  chattels  in  the  eounty  of  Suthamptcm. 

June  19.  Ralph  de  Crombewell  knight  to  Roger  Meiers  knight.     Recognisance 

VVestniinster.  for  400  marks  payable  by  instalments  ;  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Lineohi- 
shire. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

July  8.  Payn  Tybetot,  son  of  John  Tybetot  of  Langar,  to  Philip  Chamber- 

VVestniinster.  l.ayn  executor  of  the  said  John.  Recognisance  for  300/.,  to  be  levied 
etc.  in  Cambridgeshire. 

July  13.  John  Fytelton  of  Somerset  to  the  prior  of  St.  Mary  Suthwerk  and  the 

VVestminater.  convent.      Recognisance  for  100  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Somfuset. 

Membrane  20d. 

Memorandum  that  on  the  feast  of  St.  Peter  and  St.  Paul,  namely 
29  June  this  year,  in  the  lodging  of  Robert  bishop  of  Salisbury  in 
rietstrete  in  the  suburb  of  London,  Robert  de  Thorp  knight  late 
chancellor  of  England  there  lying  sick  and  at  the  point  of  d(\ath,  seeing 
that  he  might  no  more  labour  about  the  things  which  pertain  to  his 
office,  caused  a  purse  wherein  was  the  great  seal  sealed  up  under  his 
own  seal  as  the  manner  is  to  be  sealed  likewise  with  the  seals  of  John 
Knyvet  the  chief  justice,  Richard  de  Ravenser  and  William  de 
Burstall  clerks  of  the  chancery  ;  and  after  the  said  chancellor's  death, 
who  died  the  same  day  about  one  hour  before  midnight,  the  said 
Richard  de  Ravensere  and  Richard  de  Treton  clerk  being  of  the  said 
chancellor's  household  the  next  day,  namely  on  the  feast  of  the  Com- 
memoration of  St.  Paul,  brought  the  said  seal  to  Westminster  sealed 
up  in  the  said  purse  under  the  aforesaid  seals,  and  in  the  king's  Star 
Chamber  before  the  third  hour  delivered  it  to  Sir  VV'illiam  de  Latymer 
the  chamberlain.  Sir  Richard  Lescrope  the  treasurer  and  Nicholas  de 
Carreu  keeper  of  the  privy  seal,  and  they  sealed  the  said  purse,  the 
said  chamberlain  and  ti'e^surer  with  their  ouii  seals,  the  said  Nicholas 
with  the  privy  seal,  and  the  great  seal  remained  so  sealed  up  in  the 
purse  in  custody  of  the  treasurer. 

And  after  on  5  July  following  at  his  manor  of  Henle  the  king  took 
the  great  seal  from  the  treasurer  sealed  up  in  the  said  purse,  and 
appointed  John  Knyvet  knight  chancellor,  ordering  John  king  of 
Castile  and  Leon  and  duke  of  Lancastre  to  take  of  him  the  oath  and 
deliver  to  him  the  seal  ;  and  the  king  of  Castile  in  the  king's  privy 
chapel  \nthin  his  said  manor,  in  presence  of  Edmund  earl  of  Cantebrigge, 
Henry  lord  de  Percy,  William  lord  de  Latymer  the  chamberlain, 
Richard  Lescrope  the  treasurer,  John  lord  de  Neville  steward  of  the 
household  and  Nicholas  Carreu  keeper  of  the  privy  seal  took  the  said 
chancellor's  oath  and  in  the  king's  name  delivered  to  him  the  seal  to 
be  kept  according  to  the  duty  of  his  office.  And  after  having  received 
the  seal  on  the  morrow  the  chancellor  opened  the  same  in  the  great 
hall  of  Westminster  in  the  court  [placea)  of  chancery,  and  there  sealed 
writs  of  course,  chaiters  and  letters  patent. 

[FoederaJ] 

Memorandum  that  although  by  divers  inquisitions  taken  after  the 
death  of  Robert  Tj^betot  knight  tenant  in  chief  it  is  found  that  he  held 


446 


CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1372.  Mefnbrane  20d—cont. 

in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  the  manor  of  Netlested  oo.  SufTolk  and  divers 
other  hinds  in  divers  counties,  and  likewise  the  manor  and  advowson 
of  Harugh  eo.  Suttolk  and  (>0.<f.  of  rent  in  Marketoverton  co.  Roteland 
jointly  with  William  de  Slothebv  {)arson  of  Thetilthorp,  to  them  and 
their  heirs,  on  12  July  4(j  Edwaid  J II  the  said  VV'illiam  appearing  in 
person  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster  producexl  a  charter  bearing  dat<; 
20  June  43  Edward  JTI  and  sealed  with  the  seals  of  Roger  Bellers, 
Robert  Dayncourt,  (xervase  de  Clifton,  John  de  Loudham  knights, 
William  Hemmyng  parson  of  Castelcombe,  William  de  Burgh,  John 
de  Witlesbery  and  William  de  Parley,  whereby  they  the  said  Roger 
and  the  others  granted  to  the  said  Robert  Tybetot  and  W^illiam  de 
Slotheby,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  the  said  manor  and  advowson  of 
Barugh,  the  manors  of  Oxenden  co.  Gloucester,  Sonyngdon  co. 
Bedeford  and  Sibbeton  co.  Kent,  all  their  lands  in  Overton  co.  Roteland, 
and  a  messuage  and  four  shops  in  the  city  of  London  which  they  the 
grantors  formerly  had  of  the  gift  of  the  said  Robert  Tybetot,  averring 
that  he  had  not  nor  might  claim  any  right  in  the  premises  in  the  said 
charter  contained  save  only  in  the  said  lands  in  Overton,  which  are 
the  60.S.  of  rent  in  Marketoverton  in  the  inquisition  above  contained, 
because  he  expressly  acknowledged  that  Robert  Tybetot  died  solely 
seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  all  the  premises  except  the  lands  in 
Overton  w  Inch  make  up  the  said  rent  in  Marketoverton,  and  that  with 
that  exception  the  same  ought  to  descend  by  inheritance  to  the  heirs 
of  the  said  Ro])ert  Tybetot  without  any  claim  that  he  might  appose. 
Therefore  let  the  said  rent  in  Marketoverton  be  delivered  to  the  said 
William  de  Slotheby. 

July  10.  Clement  Spice  and  John  Bek  to  Thomas  Daunay  and  Wilham  de 

Westminster.  Lokynton  clerk.     Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  401.,  to  be  levied, 
in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  cliattels  in  Essex. 
Cancelled  on  payment,  acknoivledged  by  the  said  William. 

July  12.  John  de  Arundell  knight,  David  de  Hanemere  and  John  de  Kynges- 

Westminster.  fold  to  Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Coupeland.     Recognisance  for 
6,000  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Sussex. 

Cancelled    on    payment,    acknowledged    by    Thomas    de    Middelton 
parson  of  Hakeney  one  of  the  said  Joan's  executors. 


July  12.  John  de  Arundell  knight  to  Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Coupeland. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  1,600  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Sussex. 
Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  {as  the  last). 

July  12.  Joan   who  was  wife  of  John  de  Coupeland  to  John  de  Arundell 

Westminster,  knight.  Recognisance   for  2,000   marks,   to   be   levied  etc.  in  North- 
umberland. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  Edward  Botiler  of  Northbury  knight,  granting  to 
Nicholas  Bluseworth  the  elder,  Sir  Thomas  Tunstall  rector  of  North- 
bury  and  John  Bluseworth  chaplain  20/.  of  yearly  rent  for  their  lives, 
to  be  taken  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions  of  his  manor  of 
Hygham  Gobioun  co.  Bedeford,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  ; 
and  he  has  put  them  in  seisin  thereof  by  payment  of  Id.  for  the  first 
term.     Dated  Hygham  aforesaid,  28  June  46  Edward  III. 


46   EDWARD   III.  447 


1372.  Membrane  20(1— ront. 

Charter  of  Edward  Botiler  of  Northburv  kniglit,  giving  witli  warranty 
to  Sir  John  Brian  rector  of  St.  Andrew  by  the  Wharf  Ldiidon,  Sir 
Thomas  Tunstal  rector  of  Nortlibury,  Sir  John  rector  of  Middilton 
eo.  fantebrigge,  Griftin  Castel  el)a|)lain  and  John  Hay,  tlieii'  heirs  and 
assigns,  his  manor  and  advowson  of  Xorlhbnry  eo.  StalVord  with  all 
land.s,  rents  and  services  whatsoever  and  wheresoever  to  the  same 
belonging.     Dated  Northburv  aforesaid,  A  July  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writing  and 
charter,  13  July. 

July  18.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  to  cause  proclamation 

Westminster,  to  be  made  of  the  jieace  and  concord  lately  made  between  the  king 
for  himself  and  his  subjects  and  Lewis  count  of  Flanders  for  himself 
and  his  subjects  touching  the  late  strife  aiid  debate  between  the 
subjects  of  the  king  and  the  said  count,  on  the  king's  behalf  forbidding 
any  man  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition  under  pain  of  forfeiture  to 
cause  or  so  far  as  in  them  lies  to  suffer  others  to  cause  any  wrong, 
trouble,  hurt,  violence,  hindrance  or  grievance  in  their  persons,  ships, 
goodsorproperty  to  the  merchants  of  Flanders,  theirships  or  merchandise, 
or  to  other  men  of  Flanders  by  land  or  sea  coming  through  the  king's 
dominion  and  power  for  trafHc  or  other  lawful  cause,  there  abiding 
and  thence  returning  to  their  own  again,  but  to  cherish  and  kindly 
entreat  them  and  every  of  them  as  the  kings  friends  and  well  wishers 
according  to  the  said  concord,  wherein  (among  other  things)  it  is 
contained  that  the  lords,  people,  subjects,  shipmasters,  seamen  and 
merchants  of  either  party  on  either  side  the  sea,  and  all  other  true 
merchants  not  being  enemies  of  either  party,  may  freely  and  peaceably 
as  merchants  have  their  communication  and  conversation  together 
trafficking  one  with  another,  and  may  by  land  and  sea  bring  their 
own  goods  and  the  goods  of  other  true  merchants  not  being  enemies 
of  either  party  in  as  friendly,  free  and  peaceable  manner  as  they  used 
to  do  in  time  of  the  peace,  pa\'ing  customs,  subsidies,  and  other  duties, 
and  that  all  merchants  and  other  Flemings  whatsoever  by  the  said 
mayor  and  sheriffs  arrested  by  virtue  of  any  command  of  the  king  or 
otherwise  by  reason  of  the  strife  and  debate  aforesaid  shall  be  set  free 
\\ith  their  goods  and  merchandise.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Foedera^ 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  bailiffs  of  Fowy  and  four  other  towns,  and  of  the  city  of 

Norwich. 
The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne  and  of  eight  other 

cities  and  towns. 
William  de  Latymere  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of 

the  Cinque  Ports,  or  his  lieutenant. 
Philip  de  Courtenay  and  W^illiam  de  Neville  admirals  of  the  fleet 
from    the    mouth   of   the   Thames    westward    and    northward 
respectively,  or  their  lieutenants. 
Ibid.'] 

Membrane  \9id. 

Charter  of  John  de  Ched^'ndon,  giving  with  warranty  to  Bernard 
Brocas  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  all  his  lands,  rents  and  services 
of  free  men  and  neifs  in  Horton,  Chedyndon,  Bettelowe,  Crofton, 
Northale,  Aldewyke,  Woketon,  Tyscote,  Royesden,  Waddon,  Slapton 


44X  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSK   ROLLS. 


187*2.  Membrane  lUd — cont. 

and  Dagenluilc.  Witnesses  :  Thonia-s  dc  Mussendtm,  Thomas  Boteler, 
Xitliolas  Fitzliugli,  Thomas  Davy,  Kogt-r  Kcnipc,  .John  liraino. 
Dated  Horton,  Tuesday  after  St.  Martin  42  Kdward  III. 

VV^riting  of  John  de  Chedyndon,  being  a  quitchvim  with  warranty 
to  Jiernard  Brocas  knight,  his  heirs  and  a.ssign.s,  of  all  lands,  rents  and 
services  of  tenants  free  and  neif  wliich  the  saicl  Bernard  lat<'ly  had  of 
his  gift  in  Horton.  Chedyndon,  Betlelowc,  Crofton,  Xorthale,  Aldewyke, 
W'oketon,  Tyseote,  Royesden,  Waddon,  Slapton  and  Dagenhale. 
Witnesses  :  John  (Jolofre  knight,  Joiin  Rous,  Nicholas  fitz  Hugh, 
Tiiomas  J3avy,  Roger  Kempe,  John  Braine.  Dated  Horton,  Thursday 
the  Nativity  of  St.  John  Baptist  41)  Fdwaid  Jil. 

Memm-andum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  9  July  this  year. 

Charter  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Coupland,  giving  with 
warranty  to  Sir  Richard  Darundell  son  of  tlie  earl  of  Arundell  and 
Surrey,  Sir  Edward  de  S(unt  Johan,  Sir  Thomas  de  Ludlowe  knights, 
David  de  Hanemere  and  John  Kyngesfold,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
her  manors  of  Bykere,  El\Tigham,  Niewstede,  Osberwyk,  Wollore, 
Newham,  Akild,  Cou])land,  Yeverne,  TroUope,  Killum,  Antrechestre, 
Myndrom,  Presseffen  and  Palxton  in  Glendale,  with  three  knights' 
fees  in  Forde,  Croneum.  Kynmerston,  Bayrmore,  Dychand,  Ulcestre, 
Warenford,  Unthank  and  Wollore,  as  fully  as  ever  she  held  the  same, 
to  hold  the  manors  of  Bykere,  Elyngham,  Xiewstede,  Osberwyk  and 
Wollore  and  the  said  knights'  fees  of  the  king,  the  residue  of  the 
premises  of  other  the  chief  lords   of   the  fee.      Dated   Westminster, 

11  July  4t)  Edward  ITI. 

Memorandum    of    acknowledgment    in    the    chancery    at    London, 

12  July. 

Writing  of  Edward  Botiler  of  Northbury  knight,  granting  to  Nicholas 
Blusewortli  the  elder,  Sir  Thomas  Tunstal  rector  of  Northbury  and 
John  Blusewortli  chaplain  and  to  their  assigns  during  their  hves  20^ 
of  yearly  rent  to  be  taken  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions 
of  his  manor  of  Hatlee  co.  Bedeford,  with  power  to  distrain  for 
arrears  ;  and  he  has  put  them  in  seisin  thereof  bv  payment  of  Id.  for 
the  first  term.     Dated  Hatlee,  28  June  46  Edward  III. 

Charter  of  Edward  Botiler  of  Northbury  knight,  giving  Avith 
warranty  to  Sir  John  Bryan  rector  of  St.  Andrew  by  the  Wharf  London, 
Sir  John  rector  of  Middilton  co.  Cantebrigge,  Sir  Griffin  Castel  chaplain 
and  John  Hay,  tlieir  heirs  and  assigns,  his  manors  of  Higham  Gobyoun 
and  Hatlee  co.  Bedeford  and  the  advowson  of  Hatlee  church,  «-i1:h  all 
lands,  rents  and  services  whatsoever  and  wheresoever  to  the  said 
manors  belonging.     Dated  Hygham  aforesaid,  5  July  46  Edward  III. 

Memorondum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writing  and 
charter  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster,  13  July. 

July  14.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London.     Order  under 

Westminster,  pain   of   for-feituie,   for   particular   causes   laid   before   the   king   and 

council,  to  suffer  no  man  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition,  aUen  or 

native,  to  pass  in  that  port  towards  any  parts  over  sea  until  further 

order  without  the  king's  command  sealed  with  his  special  seal.     By  C. 


46    EDWARD   III.  449 


1372.  Membrane  \Qd — cont. 

The  like  to  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  following  ports  : 

Gippewic.  Cicestre. 

Orewello.  Bardestaple. 

Gosseford.  Suthampton. 

Great  Jememuth.  Dovorre. 

Blakeneye.  Sandewic. 

Lenne.  Rye. 

St.  Botolph.  Wynchelse. 

Grymesby.  Shorham. 

Kyngeston  upon  Hull.  Moushole. 

Newcastle  upon  Tyne.  Lymyngton. 

Lyverpole.  Pole. 

Bristol,  Warham. 

Briggewater.  Melcombe. 

Falemuth.  Portland. 

Dertmuth.  Lyme. 

Plymmuth.  Sidemuth. 

VVeymuth.  Exmuth. 

Fowy.  Exeter. 

July  17.  To   the   sheriffs   of   London.     Order,   upon   the   petition   of   John 

VVestniinster.  Avenel  knight,  to  stay  the  publication  of  the  exigents  and  of  outlawry 
against  him  until  further  order,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of 
the  Bench  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  Hugh  de  Staunford  impleaded 
him  before  the  said  justices  for  a  debt  of  110  marks,  and  that  he  was 
put  in  exigents  in  the  busting  of  London  to  be  outlawed  for  that  he 
came  not  before  them  to  answer,  being  himself  without  knowledge  of 
that  suit,  praying  the  king  to  save  him  harmless  ;  and  John  de  Donton, 
John  Jarpenville  and  Peter  Waryn  of  Cambridgeshire  and  Adam  Bowet 
of  Yorkshire,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  for  him 
under  a  pain  of  110  marks  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  the 
day  the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable. 

July  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.     Order  to  stay  altogether  the  execution  of 

Westminster,  the  king's  late  writ  directing  him  to  cause  John  Chaffare  '  bocher,' 
Thomas  de  Dalby  '  bocher,'  Thomas  Dughty  '  bocher,'  Thomas  de 
Stransalle  '  bocher  '  and  William  de  la  Halle  to  appear  before  him,  and 
to  compel  them  to  find  mainpernors  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriff 
laid  upon  them,  and  for  which  [he  will]  answer  to  the  king,  that  they 
will  not  cause  nor  procure  any  hurt  nor  harm  to  John  de  Cawode  of 
York  '  bocher ' ;  as  John  de  Wyclyf,  Thomas  Dawenay,  John  de 
Sadyngton  and  Simon  de  Elvjoigton  of  Yorkshire  have  mainperned 
for  them  in  chancery  as  aforesaid  under  a  pain  of  40^. 

Membrane  iSd. 

Indenture  made  between  the  king  and  Bardet  de  Malepilys  of 
Florence,  witnessing  that  the  king  has  made  the  said  Bardet  master 
and  worker  of  his  gold  and  silver  moneys  in  the  town  of  Caleys  etc. 
{as  above,  p.  303  ;  but)  of  every  pound  of  gold  money  by  weight  the 
king  shall  take  4s.  by  tale,  the  said  master  I2d.,  and  14/.  15^.  by  tale 
shall  remain  to  the  merchant. 

OB  29 


450  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  \ld. 

Mainpernors  :  Peter  de  Bardes  merchant  of  Florence  for  200/., 
Jacob  Jakeniyn  merchant  of  Fh)rence  for  200/.,  Dyne  Perusyn 
merchant  of  Florence  for  lUO/.,  and  Zenobe  de  Martyn  merchant  of 
Florence  for  100/.  Dated  Westminster,  20  May  46  Edward  III. 
French. 

Oct.  29.  Elizabeth  who  \va.s  wife  of  John  Aspale  knight  to  John  de  Stodeye, 

Westminster.  Nicholas  Biembre,  John  Birlynghani  and  Thomas  Creyke  citizens  of 
London.  Recognisance  for  400  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  her  lands  and  chattels  in  Suffolk. 

Nicholas  Brembre  and  John  Birlyngham  citizens  of  London  to 
Thomas  prior  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Mary  without  Bisshopesgate 
London.  Recognisance  for  400  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  the  city  of 
London. 

Cancelled  on  'payment. 

Writing  of  Nicholas  de  Carreu,  being  a  grant  and  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  Sir  John  Mannyng  clerk  and  John  Motte,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Brightwell  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services, 
homages,  reversions,  bodies  of  neifs  and  all  that  goes  with  them, 
meadows,  pastures,  woods  etc.  in  the  towns  and  hamlets  of  Brightwell, 
Chalgrave,  Bensynton,  Ewelme,  Brotwell  and  Berewyk  co.  Oxford. 
Witnesses  :  Sir  Baldwin  de  Bereford,  Sir  Roger  de  Cotesford,  Sir 
Reynold  de  Malyns,  Sir  Gilbert  Waco  knights,  John  de  Rucote,  Thomas 
de  Barentyn,  John  de  Baldyngton,  John  Harewedon,  John  Parke, 
Robert  Wouborne,  Nicholas  Tettesworth,  Walter  Yonge,  Thomas 
Stanydelf.     Dated  Brightwell,  7  August  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  11  August. 

Indenture  witnessing  that  whereas  Nicholas  de  Carreu  has  made  a 
grant  and  quitclaim  to  Sir  John  Mannyng  clerk  and  John  Motte  of 
the  manor  of  Brightwell  etc.  with  warranty  in  fee  simple  to  them, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  the  said  John  and  John  covenant  that  they, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  shall  make  no  demand  upon  the  said  Nicholas 
or  his  heirs  for  the  said  warranty  by  way  of  voucher  nor  by  writ  of 
warranty  of  charter  save  only  against  Agnes  daughter  and  heir  of  John 
Boukode  of  W^alynton  and  her  heirs,  saving  to  them,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  the  advantage  thereof  to  bar  the  said  Nicholas  and  his  heirs 
if  they  shall  make  any  claim  to  the  premises.  Dated  Brightwell, 
8  August  46  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum,  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  John  and  John, 
11  August. 

Indenture  made  between  Dame  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  Sir  John 
Aspale  knight  of  the  one  part  and  John  de  Stodeye,  Nicholas  Brembre, 
John  Birlyngham  and  Thomas  Creyk  citizens  of  London  of  the  other 
part,  being  the  defeasance  of  a  recognisance  for  400  marks  made  in 
chancery  by  the  said  Elizabeth  to  the  said  John  de  Stodeye  and  his 
party,  upon  condition  that  Thomas  prior  of  the  hospital  of  Our  Lady 
without  Bisshopesgate  London  and  the  convent  may,  according  to 
a  lease  to  them  made  by  the  said  Elizabeth,  peaceably  hold  and  enjoy 
the  manor  of  Hoggeston  with  the  mill  and  all  other  her  lands,  rents 
and  services,  profits,  commodities  etc.  in  Middlesex,  and  the  meadow 


46   EDWARD   III.  451 


1372.  Membrane  lid — cont. 

sometime  of  her  said  husband  in  the  town  of  Westham  co.  Essex  for 
a  term  of  ten  years  from  Michaelmas  day  45  Edward  IIJ  in  the  said 
lease  contained,  without  being  thrust  out,  impeached,  disturbed  or 
anywise  charged  by  her  or  her  heirs  or  by  any  other  person  having 
title  of  right  in  the  premises  or  parcel  thereof  before  the  date  of  the 
said  lease,  or  by  reason  of  any  charge  made  in  former  time,  or  that  if 
during  tlie  said  term  by  tnie  title  of  right  without  fraud  or  covin  tlie 
said  John  de  iStodeye,  Nicholas,  John  Birlyngham  and  Thomas  Creyk 
be  impleaded  concerning  the  premises,  reversion  whereof  the  said 
Elizabeth  after  granted  w  ith  warranty  to  them,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
and  tlie  said  prior  has  attorned  tenant  to  them,  or  any  parcel  thereof, 
or  if  they  be  thrust  out  by  execution  or  by  force  of  any  judgment, 
statute  merchant  or  recognisance  before  the  date  of  the  said  lease 
whereby  the  prior  and  convent  be  losers  or  become  chargeable,  and 
if  warning  be  by  them  the  said  John  de  Stodeye  etc.  or  by  their  letters 
given  to  the  said  Elizabeth,  her  heirs  or  executors,  at  Stonham  Aspale 
CO.  Suffolk  at  her  costs  to  make  recompense  at  Hoggeston  for  so  much 
loss,  charge  or  damage,  as  it  shall  truly  be  proved  that  the  prior 
and  convent  have  suffered  she,  her  heirs  or  executors  shall  within  one 
half  vear  make  such  recompense  as  aforesaid.  Dated  London, 
29  October    46  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  30  October. 

Writing  of  John  Peitou  knight,  being  a  receipt  and  acquittance  to 
Robert  Tresilian  for  15/.  arrears  found  to  be  due  from  him  upon  an 
account  taken  at  London  on  Monday  before  Midsummer  last  before 
him  the  said  John,  being  then  chief  steward  of  all  the  lands  of  Ralph 
carl  of  Stafford  in  England,  and  before  John  Rothewell  clerk  and 
John  Wexcombe  at  that  time  auditors  of  the  rents,  profits  of  courts 
and  other  profits  whatsoever  arising  of  the  said  earl's  lordship  in 
Comewaille,  since  which  account  the  said  Robert  received  nought  of 
the  said  earl's  goods,  and  of  the  said  sum  the  said  John  Peitou  has 
paid  him  lOOs.  for  his  fee.  Dated  London,  Saturday  after  St. 
Katherine  46  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  John  Peytou,  27  November. 

Membrane  I6d. 

Writing  of  Hugh  Dauvers,  son  to  William  Dauvers,  being  a  grant 
and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  atte  Hulle  of  Wouburne  and 
Agnes  his  wife,  and  to  the  heirs  of  the  said  John  for  ever,  of  the  manor 
of  Little  Merlawe  with  appurtenances,  which  the  said  John  and  Agnes 
hold  for  term  of  their  lives  by  his  charter  of  gift  and  feoffment,  with 
remainder  after  their  decease  to  their  heirs  or  assigns  for  20  years,  under 
conditions  in  certain  indentures  contained.  Witnesses  :  Hugh  de 
Berewyk,  Roger  de  Puttenham  knights,  Thomas  Doyly,  Thomas  atte 
Lude,  William  de  Wvdvndon,  John  de  Thame,  Roger  atte  Feld. 
Dated  Little  Merlawe,"  20  July  46  Edw^ard  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  21  July. 

July  22.  Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  made  by  Henry  lord  de  Percy,  Robert 

Westminster,  de  Neville  knight  and  Master  Alexander  de  Neville  archdeacon    of 

Durham    for   William   de  Neubyggyng,   that   he   shall   keep   all    the 

conditions  and  covenants  in  an  indenture  made  betw^een  the  king  and 


452  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  I6d — cont. 

him,  binding  themsolves  in  case  of  his  default  to  content  the  king  of 
8o  uiucli  as  lie  shall  lack. 

Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  under  a  pain  of  10^.  made  22  July  this 
year  before  the  chancellor  and  treasurer  by  Roger  Sudbury  and  William 
HuUe  of  the  town  of  Westminster  for  the  good  behaviour  of  Reynold 
Brikeden  toward  the  king  and  people,  and  toward  Adam  de  Chestrefeld 
canon  of  the  free  chapel  of  St.  Stephen  within  Westminster  palace. 

Charter  of  Thomas  Tryvet  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to  John 
Clyvelee  citizen  and  vintner  of  London  and  Katherine  his  wife  during 
their  lives  and  the  life  of  the  longest  liver  a  yearly  rent  of  20  marks, 
to  be  taken  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions  of  his  manor 
of  Northaston  co.  Oxford,  payment  to  begin  at  Michaelmas  next, 
with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  ;  and  in  name  of  seisin  thereof  he 
has  attorned  to  them  by  payment  of  20d.  in  part  of  the  first  term's 
payment.  Witnesses  :  John  de  Stodeye,  John  Rothyng,  Robert 
de  la  More,  Thomas  Comwaleys,  William  Cressyngham.  Dated 
London,  30  July  46  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Trivet  knight,  being  a  letter  of  attorney  to  John 
Leusson  his  bailiff  of  Northaston,  by  payment  of  20d.  to  deliver  at 
Northaston  to  John  Clyvelee  citizen  of  London  and  Katherine  his 
wife  seisin  of  a  yearly  rent  of  20  marks  which  he  the  said  Thomas 
has  given  them  for  their  lives  and  the  life  of  the  longest  liver  to  be 
taken  of  his  said  manor.     Dated  31  July  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing  in  the  chancery  at  Fletstrete  in  the  suburb  of  London,  31  July. 

July  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton.  Writ  of  aid,  directing  him  on  sight 
Westminster,  of  these  presents  forthwith  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  in  his 
bailiwick  that  no  man  shall  sell  victuals  or  other  things  needful  for 
them  at  a  dearer  price  because  John  de  Nevylle  and  the  men  at  arms, 
armed  men  and  archers  of  his  retinue  and  the  retinue  of  others  sailing 
with  him  on  the  king's  service  over  sea  according  to  the  order  of  the 
king  and  council  are  drawing  tow^ards  the  town  of  Suthampton  where 
the  king  has  appointed  their  passage,  but  shall  speedily  expose  the 
same  for  sale  at  a  reasonable  price,  and  himself  and  his  ministers  to 
be  aiding  the  said  men  in  such  purchase   when  required.       By  C. 

Writing  of  Gilbert  Talbot,  giving  to  Elizabeth  Aucher  his  sister, 
William  Mulseho  clerk  and  William  de  Halden,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
a  yearly  rent  of  lOZ.  to  be  taken  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even 
portions  of  all  his  lands  in  Upton  and  Denton  co.  Huntyngdon,  with 
power  to  distrain  for  arrears  ;  and  he  has  paid  them  40i.  in  name  of 
seisin.     Dated  27  July  46  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  before  the  chancellor  at  London, 
2  August. 

July  30.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Thomas 

Westminster.  Hoggeshawe  knight,  by  mainprise  of  Nicholas  Peeke,  Richard  Asshe- 

hurst  and  John  Malepert  of  London,  to  stay  the  publication  of  the 

exigents  against  him  and  the  taking  of  his  body,  bringing  this  writ  before 

the  justices  of  the  Bench  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable  ; 


46   EDWARD   III.  453 


1372.  Metnbrane  16d — cont. 

as  his  petition  shews  that  Jolin  de  Triple  citizen  and  fishmonger 
{pincenarius)  of  London  is  impleading  him  before  the  said  justices 
for  an  alleged  debt  of  17/.  \M.,  and  that  he  is  |)ut  in  exigents  in  the 
husting  of  London  to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came  not  be^fore  them 
to  answer  the  said  John,  being  utterly  without  knowledge  of  that  suit, 
praying  that  the  king  will  save  him  liarndess  ;  and  the  said  Nicholas, 
Richard  and  John  Malepert,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have 
mainperned  for  him  imder  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have  him  before  the  said 
justices  on  the  day  mentioned. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Bradenham,  executor  and  administrator  of 
Sir  William  de  Ferrers  lord  of  (Jroby,  being  a  general  release  to  Sir 
Luke  de  Ponyngges  lord  de  Seint  Johan  of  all  actions  for  debt, 
covenant,  contract  or  other  personal  actions.  Dated  London,  4  August 
46  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
6  August. 

Charter  of  WiUiam  de  Brantjmgham,  giving  with  warranty  to  John 
de  Kyngesfold  and  Isabel  his  wife,  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said 
John,  the  manor  of  Huccote  and  all  lands  late  of  John  le  Graunt  in 
Aylesbury,  with  the  advowsons  of  Huccote  church  and  of  the  hospital 
of  St.  John  in  Aylesbury.  Witnesses  :  John  de  Arderne,  William 
Hatfeld,  John  Rous,  John  Leeg'  the  king's  serjeant  at  arms,  William 
de  C'othuUe.  Dated  Avlesbury,  Thursday  the  Nativity  of  St.  John 
Baptist  46  Edward  III.' 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  August. 

Writing  of  Thurstan  son  of  John  de  Wygan,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  Robert  de  Blakeburne  chaplain  and  Thomas  de  Walton 
chaplain,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  lands  and  tenements  which 
he  had  in  the  town  of  Wygan  co.  Lancastre,  with  all  appurtenances 
and  profits  thereto  belonging.  Witnesses  :  Matthew  de  Assheton 
parson  of  Shutlyngton,  Thomas  de  Southeworth  knight,  Thomas  de 
Molineux,  Edward  de  Lathum,  (Gilbert  del  Burche,  \Mlliam  do  Slene 
clerk,  Thurstan  le  Bakester  of  Wvgan.  Dated  London,  Monday  after 
St.  Peter's  Chains  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  London, 
9  August. 

Membrane  l^d. 

Charter  of  Tliomas  de  Bello  Campo  earl  of  Warrewyk  and  lord  of 
Gower,  giving  with  warranty  to  William  de  Burton  and  Hugh  de 
Segrave  knights,  Richard  de  Piriton  clerk,  Edmund  filz  Johan,  Henry 
de  Arderne,  John  de  Harwode  and  William  de  Morton,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  his  castle  of  Elmele  and  manors  of  Elmele  Castel,  Great 
Comberton,  Little  Comberton,  Wyke,  Pidele,  Wadbergh,  Stolton, 
Crombe  Adam,  Beoleye,  Sallewarj)  and  Grafton  under  Flavel,  a  moiety 
of  the  manor  of  Pirye  by  Worcester,  the  rents  and  services  of  lialph 
de  Tangele  for  the  manor  of  Little  Intebergh  by  him  held  of  the  said 
earl  for  life  with  the  reversion  thereof  after  his  death,  and  all  the  said 
earl's  lands  and  the  rents  and  services  of  his  tenants  in  the  towns  of 
Wyche  and  \A'orcester  except  the  lands  in  Worcestershire  which  arc 
held  immediately  of  the  king,  his  manors  of  Hasele,  Asshorne.and 


454  CALENDAR   OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1372.  Memf)rane   \5d — cont. 

Morton  Daubcney  co.  Warrewyk,  of  Pirie  and  Barre  co.  Stafford, 
Asshstcide  and  Xeiidegate  co.  Surrey;  a  mcssuag*'  with  gardon  and 
shops  adjacent  and  other  appurtenances  in  the  city  of  London  in  '  Olde- 
deneslane'  and  by  Neugate,  and  the  rents  and  services  of  William 
de  Bello  Campo  knight  his  brother  and  Henry  de  Ardeme  for  two 
mes.suages  with  shops  adjacent  and  other  appurtenances  in  the  city 
of  London  by  Baynaidoscastel  by  them  held  of  him  for  life,  and  the 
reversion  thereof  after  their  death,  with  the  knights'  fees,  advowsons 
of  churches,  collations  of  chapels  and  chantries,  and  all  liberties, 
warrens,  free  customs  etc.  to  the  premises  belonging.  Dated  London, 
5  July  44  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Bello  Campo  earl  of  Warrewyk  and  lord  of 
Gower,  being  a  letter  of  attorney  to  William  de  Sallewarp  clerk,  Richard 
de  Ruyhale,  Edmund  de  Brugge  and  Nicholas  Bertram  of  Warrewyk 
to  deliver  to  William  de  Burton  and  Hugh  de  Segrave  knights,  Richard 
de  Piriton  clerk,  Edmund  filz  Johan,  Henry  de  Ardeme,  John  de 
Harwode  and  William  de  Morton  seisin  of  Elmele  castle  etc.  {as  above) 
according  to  his  charter  of  feoffment  to  them  made.  Dated  London, 
5  July  44  Edward  III. 

Charter  of  Thomas  de  Bello  C'ampo  earl  of  Warrewyk  and  lord  of 
Gower,  giving  with  warranty  to  Richard  de  Piriton  clerk,  Henry  de 
Arderne,  John  de  Harwode  and  William  de  Morton,  their  heirs' and 
assigns,  tlu^  advowsons  of  the  churches  of  Newenton  Tony  co.  Wiltesir, 
Spellcsbury  co.  Oxford,  Wolfhamcote  co.  Warrewyk,  Kynemerton 
CO.  Gloucester,  and  Chaddesle  Corbet,  Piriton,  Power,  and  Newenton 
Beauchamp  and  the  nomination  to  the  church  of  Chirchelench 
CO.  Worcester.     Dated  London,  7  July  44  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Bello  Campo  earl  of  Warrewyk  and  lord  of 
Gower,  being  a  letter  of  attorney  to  William  de  Sallewarp,  John  de 
Chalueston,  Roger  Belam  clerks  and  Nicholas  Bertram  of  Warrewyk 
to  give  Richard  de  Piriton  clerk,  Henry  de  Arderne,  John  de  Harwode 
and  William  de  Morton  seisin  of  the  advowsons  and  nomination  {above 
mentioned),  according  to  his  charter  of  feoffment.  Dated  London, 
7  July  44  Edward  III. 

Indenture  of  lease  granted  by  Sir  William  de  Burton  and  Sir  Hugh 
de  Segrave  knights,  Richard  de  Piriton  clerk,  Edmund  htz  John, 
Henry  de  Arderne  '  esquiers,'  and  John  de  Harewode  and  William  de 
Morton  clerks  to  Thomas  de  Beauchamp  earl  of  Warrewik  and  lord  of 
Gower  for  two  years  of  the  castle  of  Elmele,  the  manors  of  Elmele 
Chastel,  Great  Comberton,  Little  Comberton,  Wike,  Pidele,  Wadbergh, 
Stolton,  Crombe  Adam,  Beoley,  Sallewarp  and  Grafton  under  Flavel, 
the  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Pirie  by  Wircestre,  the  rents  and  services 
of  Ralph  de  Tangeleye  for  the  manor  of  Little  Intebergh  by  him  held 
of  them  for  life,  and  all  their  lands,  rents  and  services  of  all  their  tenants 
in  the  towns  of  W^yche  and  Wircestre  not  held  immediately  of  the  king, 
and  all  their  appurtenances  in  Wircestreshire,  the  manors  of  Hasele, 
Asshome  and  Morton  Daubeney  co.  W^arrewik,  Pirie  and  Barre  co. 
Stafford,  Asshstede  and  Neudegate  co.  Surrey,  a  messuage  with  garden, 
shops  adjacent  and  appurtenances  in  the  city  of  London  in 
'  Oldenlane  '  (*  Oldeneslane  ')  and  by  Neugate,  and  the  rent  and  service 


46  EDWAfiD  rrr.  455 


1372.  Membrane   \6d — cont. 

of  William  Beauchamp  (knight)  his  brother  and  Henry  de  Ardorno 
for  two  messuages  with  shops  adjacent  and  appurtenances  in  the  city 
of  London  by  Baynardcastel  \w\A  of  them  for  hfe,  and  all  tlie  profits 
of  courts,  wards,  marriages  and  other  commodities  tluu'eof  arising, 
rendering  yearly  800/.  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions, 
power  being  reserved  to  the  lessors  again  to  enter  th(i  promises  in  thciir 
former  estate  if  the  rent  be  in  arrear  at  any  term.  l)at<Hl  London, 
30  July  44  Edward  IIL     French. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Beauchamp  earl  of  Warrewyk  and  lord  of 
Oowor,  b(nng  a  grant  and  (quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Sir  William  do 
Burton,  Sir  Hugh  de  Segrave,  Richaixi  de  Piriton  clerk,  Henry  de 
Arderne,  John  de  Harewode  and  William  de  Morton,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  the  castle  of  Elinele  etc.  {as  (he  last),  and  the  reversion  of 
the  manor  of  Little  Intebergh,  and  of  two  messuages  etc.  by  Baynard- 
castel after  the  death  of  the  tenants  for  life,  of  all  which  premises  the 
said  earl  enfeoffed  them  and  their  heirs  for  ever,  and  they  made  him 
a  lea.se  to  farm  for  two  years  determined  at  St.  Peter's  Chains  last 
past.     Dated  London,  6  August  46  Edward  III.     French 

Indenture  of  lease  granted  by  Sir  William  de  Burton,  Sir  Hugh  de 
Segrave,  Richard  de  Piriton  clerk,  Henry  de  Arderne,  John  de 
Harewode  and  William  de  Morton  to  Thomas  de  Beauchamp  earl  of 
Warewike  and  lord  of  (Jower  for  three  years  of  the  castk^  of  Elinele  etc. 
{a.s  in  lh<'  former  lease,  but)  the  rents  and  services  of  all  their  tenants  in 
Wiche  and  W^ircestre co.  Wircestre,  lendering yearly  800/.  at  Michaelmas 
and  Eastf^r  by  even  portions,  power  being  reserved  to  enter  again 
and  hold  the  piemises  in  their  former  estate,  and  to  thrust  out  the 
said  earl  notwithstanding  this  lease,  if  the  rent  be  in  arrear  in  part 
or  in  whole  at  any  term.  Dated  London,  7  August  46  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charters,  writings 
and  indentures  by  the  said  earl  before  the  chancellor  at  London, 
8  August  tliis  year. 

Membrane  14rf. 

Writing  of  Simon  Lidyard,  being  a  gift,  grant  and  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  Isabel  liis  sister,  sometime  wife  of  Thomas  le  Bret  of  West- 
hamme  co.  Essex,  her  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a  messuage,  103  acres  of  land, 
20  acres  of  meadow,  the  last  crop  of  3  acres  of  meadow  of  Dame  de 
Lancastre,  and  one  '  swathe  '  of  the  first  crop,  with  pastures,  commons, 
fisheries  and  commodities  whatsoever  to  the  same  belonging,  and 
86'.  10(/.  of  rent  with  homages,  fealties,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs, 
escheats  etc.,  all  lying  in  divers  parcels  in  the  parish  of  Westhamme, 
which  the  said  Thomas  in  his  life  time  and  Isabel  lately  held  by  charter 
of  feoffment,  bearing  date  Westhamme,  Friday  after  St.  Barnabas 
38  Edward  III,  and  made  by  John  Lidyard  '  settere  '  of  London 
and  Reynold  Smyth  chaplain  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies, 
with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  said  Isabel  and  Simon 
her  brother,  their  heirs  and  assigns.  Dated  Wednesday  after  the 
Annunciation   41    Edward   III. 

Memorandum  of  ackno\^  ledgmcnt  in  the  chancery  of  Westminster, 
10  August  this  year. 


456 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLiS. 


1372.  Membrane    lid — cont. 

Writing  of  Simon  Lydeyerde  of  London  '  vvolniongcr,'  being  a  grant 
and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Jolm  Aubrey  citizen  and  mercliant  of 
London,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands,  houses,  gardens, 
curtilages,  hays,  hedges,  ditches,  meadows,  pastures,  commons,  ways, 
paths,  waters,  fishponds,  fisheries,  dovecotes,  wards,  marriages,  homages, 
rents,  services  of  free  men  and  neifs,  suits  of  court,  rights,  liberties, 
commodities  etc.  named  and  not  named  which  were  ever  of  Thomas 
Bret  uncle  of  the  said  John  Aubrey  in  the  towns  of  VVesthamme  and 
Esthamme  co.  f]ssex.  Witnesses  :  John  de  Stodeye,  John  Warde. 
John  Philippot,  William  Baret,  William  le  Vonour,  Robert  Hatfeld, 
t  William  C'ulham  Thorney,  f  William  Bovvile  clerk.  Dated  London, 
12  September  1370,  44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  10  August  this  year. 

Aug.   10.        Henry  de  Hoghwyk  of  Faryngton  to  Robert  de  Faryngton  clerk. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  4  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Lancashire. 

Aug.  8.  Ralph  earl  of  Stafford  and  Hugh  his  son  to  John  de  Neville  of  Raby. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  5,000  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Staffordshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Aug.   11.  John  de  Neville  of  Raby  to  Ralph  earl  of  Stafford  and  Hugh  his 

Westminster,  son.     Recognisance  for  5,000  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Yorkshire. 
Note  that  tliis  recognisance  was  taken  by  the  chancellor. 
Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Hugh. 

Charter  of  George  Muchet  of  Fendytton,  giving  with  warranty  to 
Richard  Foulere  chaplain  and  John  Quenbourgh  of  Hornyngesseye, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  the  lands  lying  in  the  town  and  fields  of 
Dytton  which  were  sometime  of  William  Muschet  his  father,  and  all 
the  lands  lying  in  the  town  and  fields  of  Hornyngg[esseye  |  wdiich  were 
sometime  of  Alan  le  Rous  of  that  place.  Witnesses  :  John  de 
Colne,  WilUam  Maupas,  Robert  Smyth,  John  Latewys,  Alan 
Christion.  Dated  Fendytton,  Monday  after  St.  Tiburcius  and  St. 
Valerianus  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  November  this  year. 

Sept.  14.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  Dovorre.  Order  to 
Wallingford.  suffer  Bertrand  de  Chavanhac  knight  and  Ralph  de  Letranges,  who 
were  lately  sent  to  the  king  in  England  by  the  bishop  of  Carpentrace 
and  with  the  king's  licence  are  about  to  sail  towards  Calais,  without 
let  to  pass  thither  in  that  port  with  the  six  men  and  six  horses  that  they 
brought  A\  ith  them  to  England,  taking  wallets  and  two  fardels  with  the 
girdles  and  gowns  for  their  raiment  and  other  needful  things  and  their 
harness  therein  contained,  also  twelve  bows,  25  horns,  24  arrows  called 
'  brodarwes,'  four  dozen  missiles  namely  '  boltes,'  and  four  greyhounds, 
so  that  the  seamen  of  the  ship  wherein  they  shall  pass  shall  be  by  the 
keepers  charged  on  the  king's  behalf  to  take  the  said  Bertrand  and 
Ralph  to  Calais  and  nowhere  else.  By  C* 

[Feeder a.] 

*  Tested  by  Ricliurd  son  of  Edward  jjrince  of  Aquitaino  and  Wales  and 
guardian  of  England  as  are  the  two  following  writs. 


46   EDWARD   III. 


457 


1372. 


Membrane  14c/ — cont. 


Sept.  6.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Ralph  Coke 

VVallingford.  of  Xorthfolk,  to  stay  tlie  further  pubhcation  of  the  e.xigents  against 
him  and  the  taking  of  his  body  by  mainprise  of  VVilham  Pahner  citizen 
of  London  and  Roger  Bacon  of  Xortffolk,  bringing  this  writ  before 
the  justices  of  tiie  Bench  the  day  a  writ  de  judicio  against  him  at  the 
suit  of  the  prior  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England 
is  returnable  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  the  said  prior  is  impleading 
him  before  the  said  justices  to  render  his  account  for  the  time  that  he 
was  receiver  of  the  priors  nicmeys,  that  by  the  said  writ  he  was  put  in 
exigents  in  the  said  comity  (n'V)  for  that  he  came  not  before  the  said 
justices  to  answer  conceining  that  account,  and  that  he  is  ready  so  to 
answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  William  and 
Roger  have  mainperned  in  chancei-y  under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have 
him  before  the  said  justices  on  the  before  mentioned  day. 

Sept.  14.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.  Order,  by  mainprise  of  John  Bote^^vyk, 
Wallingford.  Richard  Lorchoun,  Philip  Crikyer,  Thomas  atte  Wode  and  Richard  de 
Eston  of  Middlesex,  to  stay  altogether  the  further  execution  of  the 
king's  late  writ,  at  the  prayer  of  X\'illiam  Fulmere  vicar  of  Ecclesfeld 
directing  the  sheriff  to  cause  John  Burdet  prior  of  Ecclesfeld 
to  come  before  him  and  compel  him  to  find  mainpernors  who 
under  a  jiain  to  be  by  the  sheriff  laid  upon  them  would  mainpem 
him  that  he  should  not  do  nor  procure  hurt  or  harm  to  the  said  vicar  ; 
as  the  said  vicar  averred  that  the  said  i)rior  tlireatened  him  in  life 
and  limbs  ;  and  the  said  John  Boterwyk  and  the  others  have  main- 
perned under  a  pain  of  40/.  that  the  said  prior  shall  not  by  himself 
or  by  others  do  nor  procure  any  hurt  or  harm  to  the  said  vicar's 
person,  also  for  his  good  behaviour. 

Membrane  13c/. 

Charter  of  Hugh  la  Zouche  knight  lord  of  Swavlseye,  giving  with 
warranty  to  Roger  de  Harleston,  Thomas  Marleberwe  chaplain  rector 
of  St.  Michael  Longstanton  and  John  de  Colne,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
his  manors  of  Swaviseye  and  Foulbourne  co.  Cantabrigge,  except 
a  manor  of  his  called  "  Manerisfe  '  in  Foulbourne.  Witnesses  :  Thomas 
de  Shardelowe  knight,  Nicholas  Gylot,  William  Hanigfeld,  William 
Xethirstrete  of  Foulbourne,  William  de  (iamemiigeye  chaplain 
perpetual  vicar  of  Swaviseye,  Adam  Hobildod,  Thomas  Bockinge. 
Dated  Swa\iseve,  Wednesday  the  feast  of  the  Circumcision 
44  Edward  III.'^ 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  London, 
10  August  this  year. 

Aug.  !).  \Vaiin  de  Insula  knight  to  Michael  de  la  Pole  knight.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  200/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  pa3'ment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 

Defeasance  thereof,  upon  condition  that  at  the  Purification  next 
the  said  Warin  i)av  100/.  to  the  said  Michael  or  his  attorney  at  his 
lodgmg  in  Lumbard  strete  London. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Aug.  9.  John  son  of    Thomas    de  Leylond    of   Lancashire    to    Robert    de 

Westminster.  Faryngton    clerk.       Recognisance    for    40^.,    to    be    levied    etc.    in 
Lancashire. 


458 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  I3d — cont. 

Indenture  made  between  8ir  Ralph  Basset  of  Sapcote  knight  of  the 
onc^  part  and  Geoffrey  Broun  parson  of  Benyfeld,  Richard  de  Leyoestre 
parson  of  Clifton  upon  Trente,  Richard  Dormethorp  parson  of  two 
thirds  the  church  of  Repynghale,  John  Orenehil  i)arson  of  Stanton, 
John  de  Cateby  parson  of  (Jareby  and  Master  Giles  de  Cloune  parson 
of  Gosberkirke  of  the  other  part,  witnessing  a  gift  with  warranty  made 
by  the  said  Ralph  of  the  castle  and  manor  of  Castelbitham,  the  manors 
of  Corby,  South wythom  and  Cheile  and  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of 
Careby  with  kniglits'  fees,  advowsons,  reversions  of  tenants  whatsoever, 
and  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  etc.  which  he  has  in  Lincolnshire 
by  inheritance  after  the  death  of  Sir  Robert  Colvil  lord  of  Bytham, 
except  the  great  chamber  in  Bytham  castle  for  the  ease  of  Alice  his  wife 
by  reason  of  her  infirmity,  to  the  said  Geoffrey  and  the  others,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  upon  condition  that  if  he  shall  within  this  next 
half  year  depart  out  of  England  and  shall  after  return,  or  if  he  shall 
not  go,  it  shall  be  lawful  for  him  to  enter  again  and  hold  the  premises 
in  his  former  estate  and  this  feoffment  shall  be  void  ;  and  if  he  shall  die 
before  his  return  to  England,  the  said  feoffees  shall  enfeoff  Dame 
Alice  now  his  wife  of  the  premises  for  her  life,  taking  security  on  her 
part  that  every  year  during  her  life  she  shall  distribute  in  masses,  alms 
and  works  of  charity  to  the  value  of  100  marks  for  his  soul  and  the 
souls  of  his  ancestors,  whereof  20/.  shall  every  year  on  the  eve  and 
day  of  his  obit  be  laid  out  at  Sapcote  where  he  purposes  to  be 
,  buried,  so  that  after  her  decease  one  moiety  of  the  premises  shall 
remain  to  Alice  his  daughter,  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  her  body, 
security  being  given  by  her  or  her  heir  that  for  40  years  distribution 
shall  be  made  to  the  value  of  50  marks  a  year  for  his  soul  and  the 
souls  of  liis  ancestors,  10/.  thereof  being  laid  out  at  Sapcote  as  aforesaid, 
remainder  for  lack  of  such  heir  male  to  the  said  Alice  and  the  heirs 
of  her  body,  remainder  to  the  right  heirs  of  the  said  Ralph,  and  the 
other  moiety  of  the  prejuises  shall  remain  to  Elizabeth  his  daughter 
and  to  the  heirs  male  of  her  body,  remainder  to  the  said  Elizabeth 
and  to  the  heirs  of  her  body,  remainder  to  the  right  heirs  of  the  said 
Ralph.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Andrew  Luterell,  Simon  Symeon,  John 
Welby,  John  Ingham,  Thomas  de  la  Launde,  William  Wyhom,  Thomas 
Pyncebek.  Dated  Chastelbitham,  Tuesday  after  St.  James  the 
Apostle  46  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  Ralph  Basset  in  the  chancery 
at  Westminster,   10  August. 

Aug.   17.  William      de      Elyngton      knight      to      John      Maynard      kniglit. 

Westminster.  Recognisance   for    600    marks,   to    be    levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Hertfordshire. 

Aug.   18.  Gerard     de     Lound     knight     to     John     de     W\vthomwyk     clerk. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  20  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Yorkshire. 

Defeasance    thereof,    upon    condition    that    the    said    Gerard    pay 
10  )narks  in  the  quinzaine  of  Martinmas  next. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


Writing  of  Richard  de  Bassyngbouine  knight,  son  and  heir  of  John 
dc  Bassyngbourne  of  Badlyngham  co.  Cantebrigge,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to   Richard  Lescrope  knight,   his  heirs  and  assigns, 


46  EDWAi^D  rrr.  459 


1372.  Membrane.  \'M — cont. 

of  the  manor  of  Thornton  Styward  co.  York.  \Vi(ness(!s  :  Ralph  do 
Hastvnges,  .)ohn  Mannyon  kniglits,  William  (l(^  Mulsho,  H<mrv  do 
Barton  clerks,  William  Beaufey,  Robert  do  Wonboiirne,  Thoma.s 
de  Santon.  Dated  Canterbury,  tlu;  morrow  of  St.  Bartholomew 
46  Edward   111. 

Writing  of  Richard  de  Bassyngbourne  knight,  s-ion  and  heir  of  John 
de  Ba.ssyngb(»u rne  of  Badlyngham  co.  Cantebrigge,  being  a  ((uitolaim 
with  warranty  t(»  Richard  Lescrop  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the 
jnanor  of  ElJerton  upon  Swale  by  Cateryk.  Witnesses  and  date 
{as  the  last). 

Memorandum  oi  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writing.s  in  the 
chancery  of  Canterbury,  25  August. 

Aug.  26.         Thomas    Mewy    of    Devon    to    John    de    Monte    Acute    knight. 
Preston.       Recognisance  for  40L,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  Devon. 

Aug.  26.  To   the  sheriff  oi  Surrey.     Order,   upon   the   petition   of    John  de 

Westminster.  Felbrigge  parson  of  Couteshale,  John  de  Brandon  parson  of  Sothereye, 
Walter  Fayreman  vicar  of  Eton,  Thomas  Waldebeef  parson  of  St.  Peter 
Lenne,  W^illiam  ]nvrson  of  Refham,  W^illiam  Clerk  vi(;ar  of  Tybtmham 
and  John  Syward  parson  of  Co[)ton,  to  stay  altogether  the  exigents 
against  them  and  the  taking  of  tlieir  bodies  ;  as  their  petition  shews 
that  by  divers  writs  S.  arclibishop  of  Canterbury  is  impleading 
them  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  concernitig  divers  sums  of 
money  whereof  they  have  contented  the  archbishops  attorney 
in  that  behalf,  and  that  by  the  king's  writ  dc  judicio  they  are  put  in 
e.\igents  in  Surre\'^  to  be  outlawed  for  that  they  came  not  before  the 
said  justi(;es  to  answer  concerning  tlie  same,  praying  a  stay  ;  and 
without  the  archbishop's  knowledge  they  paid  the  said  sums  long 
before  the  issue  of  the  said  writ  of  exigents,  as  the  archbishop  has 
signified  in  chancery,  protesting  that  he  will  no  further  sue  against 
them. 

Membrane  I2d. 

Aug.  6.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk.    Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Jc^hn  Skothowe 

Westminster,  of  Felddalljiig,  by  mainprise  of  Robert  Cayly,  John  atte  Halle,  John 
PJlys  and  William  Elys  of  Norffolk,  to  stay  the  execution  of  a  writ 
of  attachment  against  him  to  the  sheriff  addressed,  bringing  before 
the  justices  at  Westminster  this  writ  and  the  writ  concerning 
the  ordinance  made  by  the  common  council  of  the  realm  ;  as  by  the 
said  writ  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  attach  the  said  John  so  as  to 
have  him  before  the  said  justices  at  a  set  day  yet  to  come  in  order  to 
answer  as  well  to  the  king  as  to  William  de  Bathele  wherefore  without 
reasonable  cause  or  the  said  William's  licence  he  withdrew  from  his 
service  contrary  to  the  said  ordinance  before  the  term  agreed  ;  and  his 
petition  shews  that  he  is  ready  to  answer  for  the  said  trespass  and 
contempt  and  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Rol)ert 
and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned 
under  a  pain  of  80/.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  on  the  said 
day  to  answer  as  aforesaid  and  further  to  do  what  the  court  shall 
determine. 


460  CALENDAK    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1372.  Menibrane  I2d — cont. 

Notice  that  the  warne  mainpernors  under  tlie  same  pain  mainperned 
for  Joiin  de  Skothowe  upt)n  a  writ  for  a  debt  of  HO/,  wliich  Wiiham  de 
Bathele  prosecuted  against  him  ;  also  upon  a  writ  for  an  account  which 
he  likewise  prosecuted,  both  under  the  date  aforesaid. 

Aug.   11.  To  W.  archbishop  of  Canterbury.     Whereas  neither  this  age  nor 

Westminster.  pt)sterity  may  be  ignorant  of  the  hurt  and  wi'ong  \\  lierein  the  king, 
his  realm  and  holy  church  and  all  the  people  of  England  were  involved 
on  every  side  by  land  and  sea  and  are  yet  daily  involved  by  reason  of 
recovering  his  right  of  inheritance  to  the  crown  and  realm  of  France, 
and  whereas  the  king  ascribes  it  solely  to  the  goodness  of  God,  whose 
grace  has  prevented  him,   that  by  special  virtue  given  them  from 
heaven  he  and  his  realm  yet  stand  and  are  not  utterly  shaken  by  so 
many  adversities,  wherefore  lately  when  the  most  high  God,  of  whom 
Cometh  all  victory,  by  the  issue  of  war  gave  to  the  king's  custody 
his    chief    adversary   John    then   calling    himself    king    of    France, 
and  other  nobles  of  that  realm,  of  his  reverence  to  God  and  holy 
church  and  in  order  to  remove  the  shedding  of  man's  blood  from  the 
borders  of  Christ's  people,  the  king  established  peace  and  concord 
with  the  said  John  and  with  Charles  his  son  such  as  he  hoped  would 
have  endured  for  ever  pleasing  to  God  and  holy  church  and  acceptable 
and  fruitful  to  the  king,  his  realm  and  people  ;   but  lo  by  the  pleasure 
of  the  most  high  without  any  fault  of  the  king  the  issue  of  the  matter 
is  otherwise,  and  the  said  Charles  not  considering  the  blessing  of  the 
said  peace  but  breaking  the  same  contrary  to  his  oatli,  with  the  aid  of 
Spain  and  many  other  powers  is  striving  to  invade  the  realm  in  such 
strength  that  notoriously  the  king  is  compelled  again  to  take  up  arms 
in  its  defence  and  to  go  forth  against  them  with  strong  hand  ;    and 
whereas  if  the  king  be  not  supported  by  the  virtue  of  the  Lord,  which 
has  heretofore  been  on  his  side,  the  burden  will  be  more  than  can  be 
borne  so  that  he  may  resist  his  said  enemies  and  their  might,  yet 
considering  his  imperfection,  and  trusting  in  the  goodness  of  God 
and  the  prayers  of  the  said  archbishop  and  of  other  the  people  set  under 
him,  wdth  such  power  as  he  now  has   he  is  straightway  going  forth 
as  aforesaid  for  the  defence  and  protection  of  the  church  and  realm 
and  for  recovery  of  his  right  ;    wherefore  the  king  humbly  implores 
the   charity   of  the   said  archbishop  that   in  celebration   of  masses, 
preachings  of  the  word  of  God,  processions,  fasts,  vigils,  almsgivings 
and    prayers    public    and    private    he    wdll    instantly    pray    for    the 
prosperous  and  happy  estate  of  the  realm  and  church  of  England, 
of  the  king's  children  and  of  all  others  about  to  sail  with  him  on  this 
his  voyage  or  otherwise  prosecuting  the  justice  of  his  cause,  that  God 
in  his  mercy  will  direct  and  dispose  their  voyage  and  actions  to  the 
honour  and  glory  of  his  name,  and  will  prosper  their  undertaking, 
desiring  that  by  gift  of  indulgences  and  by  the  fruitful  example  of 
himself  and  those  set  under  him  the  archbishop  will  procure  the  prelates, 
clergy  and  people  of  his  city  and  diocese,  the  assemblies  of  men  and 
women  of  religion,  and  all  others  who  dwell  therein  to  do  likewise 
witliout  ceasing  until  b}^  the  evidence  of  their  success  he  shall  perceive 
that  God  is  favourable  to  the  king  and  to  his  said  undertaking. 

[Foedera.] 

The  like  to  J.  archbishop  of  York,  and  to  singular  the  bishops  through- 
out England  and  Wales. 

[Ibid.] 


46    EDWARD    III.  461 


1372.  Membrane  I2d — cont. 

Charter  of  Richard  son  of  Richard  Foliot  of  Handoswortli,  giving 
with  warranty  to  John  Innocent,  Thomas  do  Santon  and  Hugh  Bray 
chaphain,  tlieir  heirs  and  assigns,  the  manor  of  Handoswortli  and  all 
lands,  woods,  services  and  reversions  etc.  which  he  the  said  Richard 
the  son  had  in  the  parish  of  Hanth^s worth  and  elsewhere  in 
Hallumshire  co.  York  late  of  Richard  his  father.  Dated  London, 
Monday  after  St.  John  Baptist  46  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Richard  son  of  Richard  Foliot  of  Handesworth,  being 
a  letter  of  attorney  to  John  de  Maunsfeld  of  Chest refeld  and  John  de 
Mekesburgh  of  Roderham  to  deliver  to  John  Innocent,  Thomas  de 
Santon  and  Hugh  Bray  chaplain  seisin  of  the  manor  of  Handesworth, 
lands  etc.  in  the  parish  of  Handesworth  and  elsewhere  in  Halumshire 
CO.  York,  according  to  a  charter  by  him  made.  Dated  London, 
Monday  after  St.  John  Baptist  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster,  14  November. 

Writing  of  Robert  Revnald  of  Mountagu,  being  a  quitclaim  to  the 
prior  of  Montacute  of  all  lands  in  Mountagu,  Bisshopeston  and 
Nyweton,  and  release  of  all  actions  real  and  personal  in  time  past. 
Dated  Thursday  after  St.  Edmund  the  Bishop  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  18  November. 

Memorandum  that  on  Monday  30  August  this  year  about  noon  in  the 
port  of  Sandewic  in  the  kings  ship  called  "  hi  Grace  de  Dieu  '  in  the 
king's  hall  therein,  in  presence  of  John  king  of  Castile  and  Leon  and 
duke  of  Lancastre,  Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford,  William  lord 
de  Latymer  the  chamberlain,  Richard  Lescrope  the  treasurer  and 
Nicholas  Carreu  keeper  of  the  privy  seal,  John  Knyvet  the  chancellor 
delivered  to  the  king,  being  then  on  his  voyage  over  sea,  a  great  seal 
of  the  king  appointed  for  tiie  ruling  of  England  while  the  king  was 
within  tlie  realm,  which  seal  the  king  put  uj)  in  a  purse,  sealed  it  with 
his  signet,  and  delivered  it  to  the  treasurer  to  be  kept  in  the  treasury 
until  his  return  to  England  ;  and  straightway  the  king  delivered 
to  the  chancellor  another  great  seal  with  the  inscription  "  Edicardus 
Dei  gracia  rex  Anglic  dominus  Hihernie  et  Aquitanie,'  directing  the 
chancellor  to  do  and  exercise  that  which  pertains  to  his  office  until 
the  king's  return  to  England,  who  took  the  said  seal  with  him  to 
Canterbury  to  the  lodging  where  he  lodged,  namely  the  priory  of 
St.  Gregory  Canterbury,  and  on  1  September  following  caused  charters, 
letters  patent  and  writs  of  course  to  be  there  sealed  with  the  same. 

[Foedera.] 


1373. 


Writing  of  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  house  of  the  order  of  friars 
hermits  of  St.  Augustine  Huntyngdon,  by  assent  of  brother  Thomas 
Grove  provincial  prior  of  the  order  granting  to  the  king,  for  that  of 
his  favour  he  has  given  to  them  and  their  successors  by  charter  one 
four  horse  wain  load  of  underwood  to  be  taken  every  week  of  the  year 
in  the  king's  forest  of  Wauberge  by  livery  of  the  keeper  thereof  for 
the  time  being  or  of  his  representative,  that  they  will  cause  a  mass 
of  the  Trinity  to  be  celebrated  daily  at  the  altar  of  St.  Augustine 
in  their  church  for  his  health  and  the  health  of  his  children  during 
their  lives  and  for  their  souls  after  death,  the  souls  of  Queen 
Philippa,   of  his  forefathers  and   of  the  faithful   departed,    binding 


462  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  \2d — cont. 

themselves  and  th(Mr  successors  and  the  said  house  to  that  chantry 
or  daily  oelebiatioii.  Sealed  with  their  coiinnon  seal  and  with  the 
(jfficial  seal  of  the  provincial  prior  ;  and  dated  Huntyngdon 
3  January  1372. 

Metnorandum  that  these  letters  are  delivered  to  Richard  Lescrope 
the  treasurer  to  be  kept  in  the  treasury  ;  and  in  consideration  of  the 
said  chantry  the  king  by  letters  patent  has  granted  to  the  said  prior 
and  brethren  one  loatl  of  underwood  to  be  taken  as  aforesaid,  the  same 
being  enrolled  upon  the  Patent  Roll  of  the  said  month  of  January. 

1372.  Membrane  \\d. 

Sept.   1.  To    W.    archbishop    of    (Canterbury.     Summons    to    a    parliament 

Wallingford.  to  be  holden  at  Westminster  in  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next 
by  the  king,  or  in  liis  absence  by  Richard  son  of  Edward  prince  of 
Aquitaine  and  Wales,  guardian  {custode)  of  England  and  the  king's 
lieutenant  therein,  waining  the  prior  and  chapter  of  Christ  Church 
Canterbury,  the  archdeacons  and  clergy  of  his  diocese  to  be  present, 
the  prior  and  archdeacons  in  person,  the  said  chapter  by  one  proctor 
and  the  clergy  by  two  ;  as  by  advice  of  the  council  the  king  has 
appointed  the  said  parliament  to  have  speech  and  treaty  touching 
urgent  and  difhcult  business  affecting  as  well  the  king,  the  furtherance 
of  the  war  and  his  rights  and  the  rights  of  the  crown  in  the  parts 
over  sea  as  the  estate  and  defence  of  the  realm  and  of  the  church 
of  England.*  By  K.   the   guardian  and  C. 

[Rep.  upon  Dignity  of  a  Peer,  App.  iv,  p.  653.  | 

The  like  to  the  archbishop  of  York,  the  bishop  of  Winchester  (neither 
being  named)  Th.  bishop  of  Rochester  and  fifteen  other  bishops  (of 
whom  the  bishops  of  Landaff,  St.  Asaph  and  Bangor  are  likewise  not 
named). 

[Ibid.  p.  654.] 

To  the  abbot  of  St.  Augustine  Canterbury.  Summons  to  the  said 
parliament.  By  K.  the  guardian  and  C. 

The  like  to  the  abbot  of  St.  Albans  and  23  other  abbots,  the  prior 
of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  and  the  prior  of  Coventre. 

[Ibid.] 

To  Richard  earl  of  Arundell.     Summons  to  the  said  parliament. 

By  K.  the  guardian  and  C. 
The   like   to   Hugh   de   Courtenay   earl   of   Devon,   John   Grey   of 
Codenore  and  sixteen  others. 
[Ibid.] 

To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order  to  cause  two  knights  of  the  shire, 
two  citizens  of  every  city  and  two  burgesses  of  every  borough  to  be 
elected  and  come  to  the  said  parliament.      By  K.  the  guardian  and  C. 

The  like  to  singular  the  sheriffs  throughout  England. 

[Ibid.  p.  655.] 

To  William  de  Latymer  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of 
the  Cinque  Ports.  Order  to  cause  two  barons  of  every  port  to  be 
elected  and  come  to  the  said  parliament.         Bv  K.  the  guardian  and  C. 

[Ibid.] 

*  Tested  by  the  guardian,  as  are  the  writs  following. 


46    EDWARD    III.  463 


1372.  Membrane    lid — cont. 

To  John  de  Cavendissh  the  chief  justice.      Summons  to  the  said 
parliament. 
[Ibid.] 

Membrane  lOrf. 

Oct.  6.  To  W.  archbishop  of  Canterbury.     Order,  for  particular  and  ev'ident 

Wiiichelsea.    causes  moving  the  king  and  council,  proroguing  until  the  morrow  of 

All    Souls  next  tlie  parliament  summonecl   to   meet  at   Westminster 

in  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  :   and  summons  to  Westminster  on  the 

morrow  aforesaid,  warning  etc.  (as  above).  Bv  K.  and  C. 

[Ibid.] 

The  like  to  the  archbishop  of  York,  the  bishop  of  Winchester  (neither 
being  named),  Th.  bishop  of  Rochester  and  fifteen  otiier  bishops  (of 
whom  the  bishops  of  Landaff,  St.  Asaph  and  Bangor  are  likewise  not 
named). 

[Ibid.  p.  656.] 

To  Th.  bishop  of  Durham.  Order  upon  his  allegiance,  as  the  king's 
trust  is  in  him,  as  he  loves  the  king  and  his  honour  and  desires  the 
safety  and  defence  of  the  realm,  duly  to  weigh  the  business  for  which 
the  said  parliament  is  summoned  and  the  perils  of  the  realm,  and 
if  he  shall  see  that  he  may  not  conveniently  attend  the  same  in  person, 
to  send  in  his  room  a  proctor  in  whom  he  trusts  with  full  information 
of  his  will  and  intent  and  full  power  to  consent  to  those  things  wliich 
shall  by  the  prelates,  nobles  and  others  be  then  appointed,  w  arning  the 
prior  and  chapter  of  Durham  etc.  (as  above) ;  as  by  the  king's  command 
the  said  bishop  is  at  this  time  much  occupied  upon  the  safety  and 
defence  of  the  march  of  Scotland. 

The  like  to  Th.  bishop  of  Karliol. 

[Ibid.] 

To  Gilbert  de  Umframville  earl  of  Angos.  Like  order  to  send  an 
attorney  in  whom  he  trusts,  if  he  may  not  in  person  attend  the  said 
parliament. 

The  hke  to  Henry  de  Percy,  Roger  de  Clifford,  Thomas  de  Musgrave 
and  Randolph  de  Dacre. 

[Ibid.] 

To  the  abbot  of  St.  Augustine  Canterbury.  Summons  to  the 
parliament  prorogued  as  above.  By  K.  and  C. 

The  like  to  the  abbot  of  St.  Albans  and  23  other  abbots,  the  prior 
of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England  and  the  prior  of  Coventre. 

[Ibid.  p.  657.] 

To  Richard  earl  of  Arundell.  Summons,  upon  his  allegiance  and 
homage,  to  the  parliament  prorogued  as  above. 

The  like  to  Hugh  de  Courtenay  earl  of  Devon,  John  Grey  of  Codenore 
and  sixteen  others. 

[Ibid.] 

To  Edward  prince  of  Aquitaine  and  Wales.  Summons,  as  he  loves 
the  king  and  his  honour  and  his  own,  to  attend  the  parliament 
prorogued  as  above  ;  as  the  king  would  not  that  business  so  difficult 
be  treated  or  directed  without  the  said   prince's  advice   and   counsel. 

[Ibid.] 


464  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  lOd — cont. 

To  John  the  king's  son,  king  of  Castile  and  Leon  and  duke  of 
Lancastiv.  Suninions  upon  his  allegiance  and  homage,  as  he  loves 
the  king  and  his  honour  and  desires  the  safety  and  defence  of  the 
realm,  to  attend  in  person  the  parliament  prorogued  as  above  ;  as  at 
the  time  of  the  former  summons  the  said  Jolin  was  intendent  upon 
otlier  the  king's  business,  whereby  he  might  not  conveniently  come  to 
the  parliament.  By  K.  and  C. 

The  like  to  Edmund  earl  of  Cantebrigge  and  six  other  earls,  John  de 
C;iu!rlet()n  of  Powys  and  seventeen  others. 

[Ibid,  p.  658.] 

To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order  to  cause  two  knights  of  the  shire, 
two  citizens  of  every  city  and  two  burgesses  of  every  borough  to  be 
elected  and  come  to  the  parliament  prorogued  as  above  ;  as  it  is  not 
needful  that  the  knights,  citizens  and  burgesses  whom  the  sheriff  was 
directed  to  summon  to  Westminster  at  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas 
should  this  time  repair  thither. 

The  like  to  singular  the  sheriffs  throughout  England. 

[Ibid.] 

To  William  de  Latymer  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden 
of  the  Cinque  Ports,  or  to  his  lieutenant.  Order  to  cause  two  barons 
of  every  port  to  be  elected  and  come  to  the  parliament  prorogued  as 
above  ;  as  it  is  not  needful  that  the  barons  whom  the  said  warden 
or  his  lieutenant  was  directed  to  summon  to  Westminster  at  the 
quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  should  this  time  repair  thither, 

[Ibid.] 

Membrane  9d. 

[Sept.  \.*]  To  Th.  bishop  of  Durham.  Order,  upon  his  allegiance  and  affection, 
[Wallingford.]  as  the  king's  trust  is  in  him,  and  as  he  loves  the  king  and  his  honour 
and  his  own  and  desires  the  recovery  of  the  king's  rights  and  the 
safety  and  defence  of  the  realm,  duly  to  weigh  the  king's  business 
for  which  parliament  is  summoned  and  the  perils  of  the  realm,  and  if 
he  shall  see  that  he  may  not  conveniently  attend  in  person  the 
parliament  with  the  king  or  the  guardian  of  the  realm  summoned  at 
Westminster  in  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next,  to  send  in  his  room 
a  proctor  in  whom  he  trusts  with  full  information  of  the  said  bishop's 
will  and  intent  and  full  power  to  agree  to  those  things  which  shall 
by  the  prelates,  earls  and  others  be  appointed  touching  the  said  business, 
warning  the  prior  and  chapter  of  Durham,  the  archdeacons  and  clergy 
of  his  diocese  to  attend,  the  prior  and  archdeacons  in  person,  the  chapter 
by  one  proctor  and  the  clergy  by  two  ;  as  at  this  time  the  said  bishop 
is  by  the  king's  command  much  busied  upon  the  safety  and  defence 
of  the  march  of  Scotland.  By  K.  the  guardian  and  C. 

The  like  to  Th.  bishop  of  Karliol. 

[Ibid,  p.  659.] 

To  Gilbert  de  Umframville  earl  of  Anegos.  Like  order  to  send  an 
attorney  in  whom  he  trusts,  if  he  may  not  come  in  person  to  the 
said  parliament.  By  K.  the  guardian  and  C. 

*  In  the  text:  '  Teste  ut  supra.''  It  is  evident,  however,  that  this  and  the 
following  writ  belong  to  the  former  series  (m.  lid.)  tested  by  the  guardian  at  the 
date  here  supplied,  and  that  this  membrane  should  have  preceded  w.  \0d. 


46    EDWARD    III.  465 


1372.  Membrane  9d — cont. 

Tlie    like    to    Henry    de    Percy,    Roger   de    Clifford,    Thomas    de 
Musgrave  and  Randolph  de  Dacre. 
[Ibid.] 

Sept.  23.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Robert 
VVallingford.  Tralcan  of  Couton,  by  mainprise  of  William  Sauvage  and  Thomas  de 
Tadcastre  of  Yorkshire,  John  de  Leycestre  and  Geoffrey  Kent  of  London 
to  stay  the  further  publication  of  the  exigents  against  him,  bringing 
this  writ  before  the  justices  at  Westminster  on  the  morrow  of 
Martinmas  next  ;  as  lately  by  writ  the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  put 
the  said  Robert  and  others  named  in  exigents  from  busting  to  busting 
until  they  should  be  outlawed,!  so  that  they  should  hav^e  their  bodies 
before  the  said  justices  on  that  daj'  to  answer  Richard  del  See,  Hugh 
le  Strange  and  ( Jilbert  Sawyer  concerning  an  alleged  trespass  ;  and  now 
his  petition  shews  that  he  is  ready  so  to  answer  and  to  stand  to  right 
thereupon,  praying  a  stay  :  and  the  said  William,  Thomas,  John  and 
Geoffrey,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainpenied  under  a 
pain  of  40^  to  have  the  said  Robert's  body  before  the  justices  on  the 
day  named.* 

Writing  of  John  de  Syndlesham,  son  and  heir  of  W^illiam  de 
Syndlesham,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Nicholas  de  Carreu 
the  elder,  his  lieirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  and  advowson  of 
Bedyngton  sometime  of  vSir  Thomas  Huscarl  knight.  Witnesses  : 
William  Neudegate,  Peter  atte  Wode,  Thomas  Kenwardesle,  Jolin  de 
Waleton,  William  Resoun,  Jolm  Oliver  tlie  younger  of  Croydon,  Thomas 
Bergh,   John  Costyn   the   younger  of  Croydon.     Dated   Bed>ngton, 

24  September  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum    of    acknowledgment    in    the    chancery    at    London, 

25  September. 

Charter  of  Richard  son  of  William  son  of  Walter  son  of  Reynold  de 
Abyndon,  giving  with  warranty  to  John  Pecche  citizen  and  alderman 
of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  messuage  and  one  half  virgate  of 
land  in  the  town  and  fields  of  Abyngdon  which  the  siiid  Richard's 
father  had  by  gift  of  William  son  of  Sir  John  de  Abyngdon  knight, 
with  all  appurtenances,  commons,  pastures  and  easements  thereto 
belonging.     Dated  20  October  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment   at  London,   20  October. 

Oct.  23.  John  Bret  of  York  to  Richard  de  Perers.     Recognisance  for  lOOs. 

Weatminster.  to   be  levied,   in  default  of   payment,   of  his  lands   and   chattels   in 
Yorkshire. 

Writing  of  William  de  Becaneshowe,  being  a  quitclaim  to  William 
de  Slene  clerk  of  all  right  in  the  manor  of  Great  Dels  by  Rochester 
CO.  Kent,  and  in  all  other  lands,  rents,  services  etc.  in  Little  Chatham 
CO.  Kent,  with  woods,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  hays,  ways,  paths, 
hedges,  ditches,  commons,  suits  of  court,  homages,  wards,  marriages, 
scutages,  reliefs,  heriots,  escheats,  rights,  hberties  etc.  thereto  belonging, 
which  they  the  said  William  and  William  had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment 
of  Richard  de  Fulshani.     Dated  London,  1  June  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum-  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 

26  October. 


Tested  by  the  guardian. 

OE  30 


46«)  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


187'2.  Membrane  9rf — cojit. 

Oct.  27.  William  do  Sandford  the  cldor,  Willlaiii  do  Sandford  the  younger, 

U'estnunster.  Thomas  J)aimay  and   JuiiDurul  de  Sandfuid  lu  Robert  de  Swynburne 
knight.     Recognisance  for  400  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  pay- 
ment, of  their  lands  and  chattels  in   Yorkshire. 
Cancelled  (m  paymeiU. 

The  same  William.  William,  Thomas  and  Edmund  to  the  said 
Robert.  Recognisance  for  200  marks  payable  at  Martinmas  1374, 
to  be  levied  etc.  in  the  city  of  London. 

Cancelled  on  jHiyment. 

Oct.  12.  To  Thomas    Sewall    escheator  in    Bedfordshire.     Order,  upon  the 

Westminster,  petition  of  John  Colyn  vicar  of  Everton,  John  Milbroke  vicar  of 
Wilhampstede,  Reynold  de  Bernewell  vicar  of  Stepelclaydon,  Ralph 
Fit/.  Richard  and  John  Hornesheved  chaplain,  by  mainprise  of  John 
GifTard  parson  of  Wardon,  John  de  Sancto  Neoto  clerk,  William  atte 
Water  clerk  and  Robert  Feltwell  of  Bedfordshire  to  stay  the  levying 
of  a  rent  of  201.  to  be  taken  of  the  manor  of  Everton  ;  as  the  said 
petition  shews  that  by  virtue  of  an  inquisition  before  the  escheator  taken 
of  his  office  in  Bedfordshire  an  inquisition  is  pending  between  the 
king  and  the  petitioners  touching  the  said  rent  and  certain  other 
articles,  as  appears  by  the  record  and  process  thereupon  had  ;  and  the 
said  John  Giffard  and  the  others  have  mainperned  jointly  and  severally 
to  be  answerable  to  the  king  and  to  content  him  of  that  which  hereafter 
shall  be  adjudged  to  pertain  to  him  in  the  premises  from  the  date  of  the 
first  inquisition. 

Writing  of  William  de  Benyngton,  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Benyngton, 
being  a  grant  and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Sir  John  de  Ovjnig  clerk, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  any  right  which  he  has,  or  which  may  hereafter 
come  to  him  or  his  heirs,  in  all  the  lands  in  the  town  of  Benyngton 
which  the  said  clerk  lately  had  by  feoffment  of  John  Brasier, 
and  which  sometime  were  of  John  father  of  the  said  William. 
Witnesses  :  Thomas  de  Benyngton,  John  Chapman,  Thomas 
Chapman,  Stephen  Smyth,  William  Boyvile  clerk.  Dated  Benyngton, 
Thursday  the  feast  of  St.  Martin  in  winter  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  15  November. 

Membrane  Sd. 

Sept.  10.  To  John  Moubray  and  William  Tank  justices  of  assize  in 
Wallingford.  Oxfordshire,  Berkshire,  Staffordshire,  Salop,  W^orcestershire,  Gloucester- 
shire and  Herefordshire.  Order  to  stay  until  further  orders 
the  taking  of  assizes  of  novel  disseisin  in  those  counties  in  the  absence 
of  those  serving  with  the  king  on  his  present  voyage  ;  as  the  nobles 
and  many  others  who  have  sailed  with  the  king  at  sea  by  his  command 
are  afraid  that  in  their  absence  they  may  by  their  enemies  be 
impeached  concerning  their  heritage  by  writs  of  novel  disseisin, 
whereby  their  disherison  might  easily  be  wrought  for  lack  of  defence  ; 
and  it  is  the  king's  will  to  save  them  harmless  while  they  shall  stand 
upon  his  service.*  By  K.  (sic)  and  C. 

The  like  to  Roger  de  Kirketon  and  John  de  Fencotes  justices  of  assize 
in  Norflfolk,  Suffolk,  Cambridgeshire,  Huntingdonshire,  Bedfordshire 
and  Bukinghamshire. 

*  Tested  by  the  guardian,  as  are  several  succeeding  writs. 


46    EDWAKD    TTT. 


467 


1372.  Membrane  Sd — conl. 

Sept.  26.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order  without  delay  to  set  free  John 
VVallingford.  Brounyng  of  Wolvvych  from  tlie  king's  prison  within  Rochester  castle, 
if  there  detained  for  the  cause  hereinafter  mentioned  and  for  none 
other,  by  mainprise  of  William  de  Prene  parson  of  VVohviche,  John 
Frost  of  VVohviche,  John  Erliethe  of  Wolwiclie  and  William  Spalding 
of  Eltham,  all  of  Kent  ;  as  lately  by  letters  patent  tlie  king  appointed 
Nicholas  Potyn  searcher  in  the  port  of  the  city  of  L()n(h)n  and  Tliomas 
Baker  master  of  a  ship  called  "  la  Marie  '  of  London  to  arrest  the  said 
John  and  other  seamen  and  put  them  in  the  said  ship  and  in  other 
vessels  for  Edward  |)rince  of  Acpiitaine  and  Wales,  in  order  to  sail 
therein  on  the  king's  service  at  the  said  prince's  wages  as  they  should 
by  him  be  charged  ;  and  after  njxm  information  received  that  the 
said  John  was  rebellious  and  contrary,  and  would  not  sail  with  the 
said  prince  on  the  king's  service,  by  writ  of  privy  seal  the  king  ordered 
the  sheriff,  if  he  were  so,  to  arrest  him  and  commit  him  to  the  said  prison 
there  to  abide  until  the  king  should  send  other  order  for  his  deliverance, 
and  by  virtue  of  that  command  the  said  John  is  by  the  sheriff  taken 
and  imprisoned,  as  the  sheriff'  has  certified  in  chancery  under  his  seal  ; 
but  the  said  parson  and  others  have  mainperned  body  for  body  to  have 
the  said  John  befoie  the  king  and  council,  whensoever  he  or  any  of  them 
shall  have  warning  on  the  king's  behalf,  to  answer  to  the  king  concerning 
his  rebellion  and  trespass  and  other  his  presumption  herein 
whatsoever. 

Sept.  14.  To  the  keepers  of  tlie  passage  in  the  port  of  Lenne.  Order  to  take 
Wallingford.  of  particular  people  and  merchants  of  Almain,  who  lately  came  to 
England  with  ships  and  seamen  and  with  particular  merchandise, 
security  that  they  will  pass  over  to  the  parts  of  Scone  there  to  buy 
merchandise  and  bring  the  same  to  England  and  nowhere  else,  and  in 
that  port  to  suffer  them  with  their  said  ships  and  seamen  freely  without 
let  to  pass  thither,  notwithstanding  the  king's  late  command  not  to 
suffer  any  man  until  further  order  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition, 
alien  or  native,  there  to  pass  to  any  parts  over  sea  without  command 
of  the  king  sealed  Avith  his  special  seal  ;  as  of  his  favour  the  king  has 
given  them  licence  so  to  do. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  St.Botolph. 
The  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  Blakeneye. 
The  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London. 
The  like  to  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London  in  favour 
of  merchants  of  Flanders  and  Seland,  finding  security  that  they  will 
pass  towards  Flanders,  Calais,  Seland  and  Holand. 

To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London.  Like  order, 
upon  the  petition  of  Dirk  Symondessone  merchant  of  Northoland,  to 
suffer  him  to  pass  to  Northoland  with  a  ship  which  he  brought  with 
him  to  England  from  those  parts  ;  as  Nicholas  Exton  and  John  Home 
citizens  of  London  have  mainperned  for  him  in  chancery  that  he  shall 
go  with  the  said  ship  to  Northoland  and  nowhere  else. 


Oct.  8.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London  or  of  Dovorre. 

Weatminster.  Order  to  suffer  Hugh  Herle  chaplain  in  one  of  those  ports  freely  without 

let  to  pass  towards  the  court  of  Rome  taking  40.s.  for  his  expenses,  any 


4fi8  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  %d — cont. 

coniiiiand  of  the  king  to  tlu'in  addie.ssed  to  the  contrary  notwith- 
stantiing  ;  as  the  said  Hugh  is  journeying  thither  with  tht;  king's 
licence,  and  has  found  in  chancery  John  de  Herle  kniglit  his  mainiM^rnor, 
who  has  niainperned  for  liini  under  a  pain  of  100/.  that  he  shall 
prosecute  nought  that  may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  of  his 
people. 

Oct.  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norfolk.     Order  to  forhid  William  de  Morle  knight 

Westminster,  to  hold  a  plea  wiiich  is  in  his  court  of  Buxton  bet\\'een  John  de  Wode 
and  Isabel  his  wife  demandants  and  Cicely  de  Branton  tenant 
concerning  a  messuage,  12  acres  of  land  and  2  acres  of  meadow  in 
Branton  which  the  said  John  and  Isabel  claim  by  \\'rit  of  right,  if  there 
be  not  a  wager  of  battle  thereupon,  because  Andrew  son  and  heir  of 
Robert  de  Branton,  whom  the  said  Cicely  has  vouched  to  warranty 
against  the  demandants,  has  put  himself  upon  the  great  assize,  craving 
a  recognition  whether  he  or  they  have  the  greater  right  in  the  premises. 

Writing  of  William  de  Bello  Campo  knight,  demising  during  his  life 
to  Sir  Thomas  de  Ponynges,  Sir  John  de  Clynton,  Sir  Baldwin  de 
Freville,  Sir  Ralph  Basset  of  Sapecote  knights,  John  le  Rous  of  Raggele, 
Robert  Mile  clerk  and  William  Sharp,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  his  manors 
of  Chaddesley  Corbet,  Newenton  Beauchamp,  Piriton,  Power  and 
Shirreveslench  co.  Worcester,  Kjmmerton  co.  Gloucester,  Spellesbury 
CO.  Oxford,  Stratford  Touny  and  Newenton  Touny  co.  Wiltesir,  and 
his  inn  with  shops,  rents  etc.  in  the  city  of  London  in  Baynardescastell 
ward,  to  hold  by  the  service  of  one  red  rose  yearly  payable  at 
Midsummer  to  the  said  William  and  his  assigns,  performing  for  him 
the  rents  and  services  to  the  chief  lords  due  and  accustomed  ;  and  gift 
to  them  of  all  his  goods  and  chattels  moveable  and  immovable  in  the 
said  manors  and  elsewhere,  with  the  ransom  and  every  other 
emolument  to  be  taken  of  Bernard  de  la  Bret  knight  his  prisoner. 
Dated  London,  11  November  46  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  William  de  Bello  Campo  knight,  being  a  letter  of 
attorney  to  John  de  Acton  and  Richard  de  Horle  to  deliver  to 
Sir  Thomas  de  Ponynges,  Sir  John  de  Clynton,  Sir  Baldwin  de 
rre\alle.  Sir  Ralph  Basset  of  Sapecote  knights,  John  le  Rous  of 
Raggele,  Robert  Mile  clerk  and  William  Sharp,  according  to  his  charter 
of  feoffment  to  them  made,  seisin  of  the  manors  of  Chaddesle  Corbet, 
Newenton  Beauchamp,  Piriton,  Power  and  Shirreveslench  co.  Worcester, 
Kynmerton  co.  Gloucester,  Spellesbury  co.  Oxford,  Stratford  Touny 
and  Nev^enton  Touny  co.  Wiltesir,  and  of  his  inn  etc.  in  the  city  of 
London  in  Baynardescastel  ward,  also  of  all  his  goods  and  chattels 
in  the  said  manors  and  elsewhere,  and  the  ransom  and  every  other 
emolument  to  be  taken  of  Bernard  de  la  Bret  knight  his  prisoner. 
Dated  London,   II  November  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings, 
13  November, 

Memorandum  of  the  assignment  to  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  Robert 
Tybetot  of  the  manors  of  Langar  co.  Notjmgham  and  Oxenden  co. 
Gloucester  and  the  advowsons  of  Barowe  and  Langar  in  allowance 
and  full  satisfaction  of  dower  of  the  manors,  lands  and  rents  of  her 
said  husband  in  England,  namely  as  well  of  those  which  descended  by 


46   EDWARD    III. 


469 


1372.  Membrane  %d — corU. 

inlioritance  to  his  heirs  as  of  thast^  wliich  were  by  him  alirncd  ordeinisi^d 
in  his  \\iv  time  to  other  persons  whatsoever,  except  the  manor  of 
Hamphwait  and  other  lands  in  the  hand  of  Sir  John  Htz  Wilham 
in  Yorkshire,  the  manor  of  Mardelebcry  co.  Hertford,  an  inn  in  Lyme- 
strate,  fouj-  sliops  in  the  parisli  of  iSt.  Katherin*^  (,'ohnan  London, 
and  all  the  knigiits'  fees  that  were  his,  to  hold  the  manor  of  Langar 
without  rendering  aught  to  her  said  husband's  hoirs,  but  if  she  shall 
overlive  William  de  .Slotheby,  she  shall  thereof  after  his  death  render 
everj'  year  during  her  life  to  the  said  heirs  6s.  S<7.  at  Midsummer  and 
Christmas  by  even  portions,  and  to  hold  the  manor  of  Oxenden  (juit 
of  rendering  aught  to  the  said  heirs  in  case  Robert  Lyngayn  shall 
overlive  her,  otherwise  she  shall  thereof  after  his  death  render  to  them 
5  marks  every  year  during  her  life  at  the  same  feasts  by  even  portions. 
And  the  said  Margan^t  appearing  in  chancery  by  William  de 
Brerelay  her  attorney  has  accepted  the  same  dower. 


Membrane  Id. 

Oct.  24.  To  the  sheritf  of  Kent.  Order,  by  mainprise  of  John  Wecclu>  of 
Westminster.  Wiltesir,  John  de  Clopton  of  Middlesex,  .Simon  Hulbroke  and  John 
de  Criille  of  Kent,  to  stay  altogether  the  execution  of  the  king's  late 
writ  directing  the  sheriff  to  cause  William  Maykyn  and  Juliana  his  wife 
to  come  before  him  in  person,  and  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriti 
laid  upon  them,  for  which  the  sheriff  would  answer,  to  compel  them 
to  find  security  that  no  hurt  nor  peril  should  by  them  or  by  their 
procurenu'nt  fall  upon  John  Frende,  and  if  they  should  refuse,  to  take 
the  said  William  and  Juliana  and  keep  them  in  safe  custody  in  the 
king's  priscm  until  they  would  willingly  so  do  ;  as  the  king  so  ordered 
the  sheriff'  at  the  petition  of  John  Frende,  averring  that  Walter  {sic) 
Maykyn  and  Juliana  grievously  threatened  him  in  life  and  limb,  and 
praving  that  the  king  would  make  provision  for  his  safety  ;  but  the 
said  John  Wecche  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
have  mainperned  for  the  said  William  and  Juliana  under  a  pain  of 
40/.  that  the}'^  shall  not  do  nor  procure  any  hurt  or  peril  to  him. 

Nov.  25.         John  de  Peito  knight  to  John  de  Beverle.     Recognisance  for  80/., 
Westminster,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Warwicksliire. 

Nov.  24.         Amery  de  Sancto  Amando  knight  to  Thomas  de  Reynes  knight 
Westminster,  and    William    parson    of    Merston.     Recognisance    for    60/.,    to    be 
levied  etc.  in  Bedfordsliire. 


Thomas  de  Reynes  knight  and  William  parson  of  Merston  to  Amery 
de  Sancto  Amando  knight.  Joint  and  several  recognisance  for 
200  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Bedfordsliire. 

Nov.  27.         Gregory  archbishop  of  Tuam  in  Ireland  to  William  lord  de  Latymer 
Westminster,  the    king's    chamberlain.     Recognisance    for    10/.,    to    be    levied   etc. 
of  liis  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Ireland. 

Thomas  bishop  of  Eltin  in  Ireland  to  \Villiam  lord  do  Latymer  the 
king's  chamberlain.  Recognisance  for  lOOi'.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in 
Ireland. 


470  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  Id — cont. 

Nov.  29.  Thomas  de  Stapelho  to  William  IMomer  of  London,      [{ecognisance 

WeetminBter.  for  45/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Bedfordshire. 

Writing  of  Alexander  dc  Goldyngham  knight,  being  a  (juitclaim 
to  the  king  and  his  heirs  of  ctatain  lands  in  ('hekewelle  co.  Essex 
within  the  king's  forest  of  Waltham,  now  commonly  called  '  the 
Neweloggelandes  in  Chekewelle,'  which  the  king  lately  acijuired  in  fee 
to  him  and  his  heirs  of  Matthew  de  Torkeseye  clerk  ;  and  grant  of  the 
premises  to  hold  during  the  said  Alexanders  life  quit  of  rendering 
aught  to  him  or  ])orforming  aught  in  his  regard.  Dated  Westminster, 
30  November  46  Edward  TIL 

Memoranduin  of  acknowledgment,  30  November. 

Nov.  30.  To  the  sheriff  of  Surrey.  Order  to  stay  the  further  publication  of 
Westminster,  the  exigents  against  Thomas  Wyldeboef  parson  of  St.  Peter  Lenne, 
bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench,  although  lately 
by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  put  the  said  parson 
in  exigents  from  county  to  county  until  he  should  be  outlawed,  for  that 
he  came  not  before  the  said  justices  to  answer  tt)  William  archbishop 
of  Canterbury  concerning  an  alleged  debt  of  12  marks  ;  as  the  said 
archbishop  has  b}^  word  of  mouth  acknowledged  in  chancery  that 
the  said  Thomas  has  contented  him  thereof. 

Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  undt^r  a  pain  of  lOOZ.  made 
28  October  by  James  de  Raygate,  John  de  Sadyngton,  Hugh  x4rdeme 
of  Yorkshire  and  William  Roche  of  Lincolnshire,  appearing  in  person 
in  chancejy,  for  John  de  Hemyngburgh  monk  of  Selby  abbey,  that  he 
shall  not  without  the  king's  licence  pass  out  of  England,  and  shall 
attempt  nought  that  may  tend  to  the-  prejudice  of  the  king  or  his 
people. 

Writing  of  William  Bokyngham  of  London  '  taverner,'  being  a  quit- 
claim with  w  arranty  to  Thomas  Virly  called  Girdeler  citizen  of  London 
and  Margaret  his  wife  and  to  their  heirs  of  all  right  in  the  lands,  rents 
and  services  which  they  hold  in  name  of  the  said  Margaret's 
heritage  in  the  city  of  London,  in  Middlesex  and  in  Dorset  ;  and 
general  release  of  all  actions  real  and  personal.  Witnesses  :  John 
Pyel  then  mayor  of  the  said  city,  William  Halden  recorder,  Nicholas 
Brembre  and  John  Philipot  sheriffs,  Henry  Padyngton,  John  Morton, 
William  Cressewyk  clerks  of  the  said  city.  Dated  London, 
Thursday  after  St.  Andrew  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   5  December. 

Writing  of  William  Bokyngham  of  London  '  taverner,'  being  a  quit- 
claim to  Richard  de  Lakenham  of  London  'marberere'  of  all  the  lands, 
rents  and  services  in  Bukinghamshire  which  he  the  said  Richard  lately 
purchased  of  Thomas  Virly  called  Girdeler  citizen  of  London  and 
Margaret  his  wdfe.  Witnesses  {as  the  last).  Dated  London, 
Saturday  after  St.  Andrew^  46  Edw^ard  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknow  ledgment,  5  December. 

Writing  of  William  de  Bokyngham  of  London  '  taverner,'  being 
a  general  release  to  Adam  de  Bury  citizen  and  alderman  of  London 
of  all  actions  and  demands  real  and  personal  for  debt,  default  or  other 


46    EDWARD    III.  471 


1372.  Membrane  Id — cont. 

matter  whatsoever  ;    John  Pyel  being  mayor  of  the  eity  of  London, 
John    Philipot    and    Nicholas    Brembre    sherilTs.     Witnesses  :     John 
de  Bures,  John   Buterwyk,   Robert  Gurdellere,   Richard  Skot,  John 
Walcote.     J)ated  London,  4   December  46  Edward  IIL 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  December. 

Writing  of  John  Broun  priest,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Sir  Robert  de  Swyllyngton  the  uncle  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  all  right  in  the  lands,  rents  and  services  which  he  the  said  Sir  Robert 
has  in  the  towns  of  Burghwalass,  Neusom,  Skellale  and  Carcroft, 
sometime  of  Master  William  de  Neusom.  Dated  Westminster,  Tuesday 
after  St.  Nicholas  46  Edward  IIL     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  December. 

Nov.  26.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London  or  of  Dovorre. 

WeBtmineter.  Order  to  suffer  John  de  Hemyngburgh  monk,  who  with  the  king's 
licence  is  journeying  towards  the  court  of  Rome  for  the  furtherance 
of  certain  business  which  concerns  his  soul's  health,  freely  without  let 
in  one  of  those  ports  to  pass  thither,  any  command  of  the  king  to  them 
addressed  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding  :  as  John  abbot  of  Selby 
has  mainperned  in  chancery  for  the  said  monk  his  fellow  that  he  shall 
not  prosecute  nor  attempt  aught  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  realm. 

Membrane  M. 

Writing  indented  of  Margery  who  was  w  ife  of  Sir  John  de  Sutton  of 
Wyvenho  knight,  being  one  of  the  daughters  and  heirs  of  Sir  Johnde 
Whelnetham  knight,  and  John  de  Bures  son  and  heir  of  Mary  sometime 
wife  of  Michael  de  Bures  and  sister  of  the  said  Margery,  being  a  deed  of 
partition,  reciting  that  the  manor  of  Great  Wlielnetham  with  the 
advowson  and  members  in  the  said  town  and  the  towns  of  Little 
Whelnetham,  Hawestede,  Brendebradefeld,  Bradefeld  Seintcler, 
Noutone,  Bury  and  Stanfeld  co.  Suffolk,  and  the  manor  of  Alphcton 
in  the  same  county  after  the  death  of  Sir  John  dc  Wlielnetham 
their  father  descended  to  the  said  Maigery  and  Mary  and  to  Amice 
Deschalers,  sometime  wife  of  Sir  Thomas  Deschalers  knight,  as  sisters 
and  coheirs  of  the  said  {sic)  Sir  John  de  Whelnetham,  that  all  the  life 
of  the  said  Amice  they  held  the  same  together  without  making 
parcenership  between  them,  that  after  her  death  without  issue  the  said 
Margery  and  Mary  held  together  as  w  ell  the  purparty  of  the  said  Amice 
as  their  own  purparties  which  descended  to  tluMU  as  aforesaid  until 
the  said  Mary's  tleath,  no  express  parcenership  being  thereof  made 
between  them,  but  that  now  by  common  consent  of  the  said  Margery 
and  John  de  Bures,  by  counsel  and  appointment  of  friends  and 
neighbours,  a  parcenership  is  between  them  made  and  appointed 
for  them,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  as  those  between  whom  remains 
by  inheritance  the  whole  right  in  the  premises,  namely  that  the  said 
Margery  the  elder  sister  sliall  have  the  whole  manor  of  Alpheton 
^^"ith  a  moiety  of  the  said  advow  son,  presenting  in  turn  as  it  shall  fall 
in,  and  John  de  Bures  shall  have  for  his  purparty  the  whole  manor  of 
Great  Whelnetham  with  its  members  and  appurtenances  and  the  other 
moiety  t>f  the  said  advowson,  and  because  the  said  Dame  Margery 
presented  to  the  said  church  at  the  last  vacancy,  it  is  agreed  between 
the  parties  that  John  de  Bures,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  shall  present  at  the 
next  turn,  and   ever  after  either  of   them   alternately,  their  heirs  or 


472  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  iod — cord. 

assignK  ;  and  Jolin  de  Buies  lioreby  grants  to  the  naid  Margery,  her 
heirs  and  assigns  in  the  manor  of  Alpheton,  10  marks  of  yearly  rent 
to  be  taken  of  all  the  said  manor  of  Great  W'helnetham  and  tlie  members 
thereof  and  of  all  other  his  lands  in  8ulfolk  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas 
by  even  })ortions  by  the  hands  of  him  tiie  said  John,  his  lieirs  and 
assigns,  to  amend  her  purparty,  and  has  this  day  put  her  in  seisin 
of  the  said  rent  by  payment  of  AMd.  in  presence  of  Sir  John  de  Sutton, 
Sir  Richard  de  Sutton,  Sir  John  de  Braham  kniglits,  Giles  atte  Grove, 
Walter  de  Godemanston,  John  Spyneye,  Richard  de  Bergholte,  Richard 
Treydener  and  John  Aleyn,  granting  her  power  to  distrain  for  arrears. 
Dated  Wykes  co.  Essex,  Monday  after  the  Epiphany  45  Edward  IIL 
Me7norandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  at  Wykes  co. 
Essex,  4  October  this  year  before  Peter  de  Barton  clerk,  by  virtue 
of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus  potestatem  to  him  addressed. 

Charter  of  Nicholas  Revel  lord  of  Fennyneubolde,  giving  with  warranty 
to  Richard  Gode  his  servant,  his  heirs  and  assigns  and  the  assigns  of  his 
assigns,  one  great  croft  called  Raldewynnscroft  and  2^  acres  of  arable 
land  in  Stretton  by  Monks  Kirkeby,  one  acre  thereof  lying  in  a  selion 
called  Thurghlond  upon  Derwellefurlong  between  lands  sometime 
of  Thomas  Boydon  and  William  Pilet,  and  1 1  acre  in  the  same  cultura 
in  three  selions  lying  together  between  lands  late  of  Thomas  Koc 
and  John  Bagot  abutting  on  the  fosse  {inte  fosse);  also  2|  acres  and  6  butts 
of  land  with  headlands  (chevettis)  of  meadow  and  appurtenances  in 
Fenn3'neubolde,  one  acre  lying  upon  Longelond  by  land  of  Richard  le 
Reve,  one  acre  with  headland  of  meadow  upon  the  same  cultura  by 
land  of  the  said  Richard  le  Reve,  half  an  acre  of  land  upon  Littulhulle, 
by  land  of  the  said  Nicholas,  and  the  said  six  butts  with  headlands 
of  meadow  upon  Bouerbuttes  abutting  on  the  (inte)  Brynkelowedam, 
whereof  three  a\  ere  late  of  William  Brt)un  and  three  late  of  Thomas 
Koccus  (sic).  Witnesses  :  George  de  Castello,  Richard  de  EsenhuUe, 
John  Clerk  of  Stretton,  Thomas  Bagot,  John  Fraunkeleyn.  Dated 
Fennyneubolde,  Tuesday  after  St.  Hilary  42  Edward  III. 

Charter  of  Nicholas  Revel  lord  of  Fennyneubolde,  giving  with 
warranty  to  Richard  Gode  his  servant,  his  heirs  and  assigns  and  the 
assigns  of  his  assigns,  two  messuages  with  appurtenances  in  the  town 
of  Stretton  by  Kirkeby,  one  lately  held  by  Adam  Yremongere  the  other 
by  Roger  Coke  ;  also  30  acres  of  land  and  2  acres  of  meadow  in  the  said 
town,  whereof  8  acres  were  sometime  held  by  William  Smyth,  12  acres 
by  William  de  Swyneford  and  10  acres  by  Roger  Coke,  and  the  2  acres 
of  meadow  lie  in  Stretton  Moor  ;  also  5  acres  and  3  butts  of  land  with 
a  meadow  called  the  Hemslade  in  the  fields  of  Fennyneubolde  and 
Stretton  wliicli  John  Revel  father  of  the  said  Nicholas  lately  had  of 
the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Henry  Russell  of  Coventre,  whereof  one  acre 
lies  upon  Longelond  by  land  of  Thomas  Cole,  one  half  acre  upon 
Luttelhulle  by  land  of  the  said  Nicholas,  one  half  acre  in  Wybelcroft- 
slade  by  land  of  the  said  Nicholas  on  either  side,  3  butts  upon  Boueres- 
buttes  extending  to  the  (inte)  Brynkelowedam,  one  acre  upon  Fosse- 
furlong  by  land  of  Thomas  Boydyn,  one  acre  upon  Hiderholoulowe 
by  land  of  Thomas  Bagot,  and  4  roods  upon  Hauthom  furlong  by 
land  of  Robert  Gibbe.     Witnesses  and  date  (as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charters  in  the 
chancery  at  Westminster,  3  November  this  year. 


46    EDWARD    IJI.  473 


1372.  Memhratie  Hd — cant. 

Nov.  4.  Ecliuuiul   Fouclii^-   to   Alice   Pmivis.     Kccognisanco   for   80   marks, 

VVeetminster.  to  hv  lovi(;d,  in  default  of  payiiuiit,  of  hi.s  land>.  and  cliattcl.s  in 
Derbyshii-e. 

Robert  de  Raventliojp   to    Thomas  de   Etton  clerk  and  Hugh  de 
Arderne.     Recognisance  for  20  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Yorkshire. 

Nov.  4.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exehei[uer.     Order  to  stay 

Westminster,  their  deinand  made  by  exchetjuer  summons  upon  Ingelram  de  (Joucy 
earl  of  Bedford  for  ])ayment  of  4,000  marks  to  the  king's  use,  thereof 
discharging  him  at  the  excheijuer,  and  releasing  and  restoring  to  him 
any  distress  made  for  that  cause,  although  on  25  May  in  the  43rd  year 
of  his  reign  by  a  recognisance  made  in  cliancery  the  said  earl 
acknowledged  that  he  o\\  ed  the  king  that  sum  to  be  paid  at  terms  now 
past  ;  as  on  22  August  last  by  \\  rit  of  privy  seal  the  king  ordered 
John  Knyvet  the  chancellor  to  cause  the  said  recognisance  to  be 
cancelled  for  that  the  said  sum  is  paid  him  in  his  chamber,  by  virtue 
of  which  counnand  the  recognisance  is  cancelled  upon  the  rolls  of 
chancery,  as  appears  by  inspection  thereof.  By  p.s.   [29300.  J 

Nov.  8.  Jolm  Erompton  antl  Stc  plan  Derby  to  John  Samuel  and  John  Bays. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  40  marks,  to  Ix?  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of 
their  lands  and  chattels  in  Dorset. 

Cancelled  on  jxtymoU,  ackitotvledyed  hi/  John,  Bays, 

Nov.   18.  iSimon  de    Burgh    to    Elizabeth    wiio    was    wife    of    Richard   Fint. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  ft)r  100/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Kent. 

(Sept.  21.         John  I'oucher  to  Master  Geoffrey  Leserope  and  Adam  de  Lymbergh 
Wallingford.    canons  of  St.  Mary  Lincoln,  Ralph  de  Thresk,  John  de  Eulnetby  and 
William  de  Gaskerik.     Recognisance  for  1,000  marks,  to  be  levied  etc. 
in  Lincolnshire.* 

Note  that  this  recognisance  was  taken  by  Roger  de  Meres  by  writ. 

Membrane  5d. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Robert  de  Swynburne  knight  of  the 
one  part  and  \Mlham  de  Sandford  clerk  the  elder,  William  de  Sandford 
the  younger,  Thomas  Daunay  and  Edmund  de  Sandford  of  the  other 
part,  witnessing  the  gift  made  b}-  Sir  Robert  of  a  yearly  rent  of  lOl. 
during  the  life  of  Dame  Joan  his  wife,  to  be  taken  at  Michaelmas  by  the 
said  ^^'illiam,  William,  Thomas  and  Edmund,  their  lieirs  and  assigns, 
of  all  liis  lands  in  England,  those  in  Westmorland  excepted,  and  he  has 
put  them  in  seisin  tliereof  by  40(/.,  granting  them  power  to  distrain 
for  arrears  under  the  conditions  follow  ing,  namely  that  so  long  as  they, 
their  heirs  and  assigns  shall  hold  the  manor  of  Ascuni  not  losing  the 
same  nor  any  parcel  thereof  by  any  action  of  dower  at  the  suit  of  the 
said  Joan  and  execution  by  her,  they  shall  have  no  power  to  distrain 
nor  to  demand  the  said  rent,  and  if  she  shall  by  writ  of  dower  implead 
them,  their  heirs  or  assigns,  concerning  the  said  manor  or  any  parcel 
thereof,  and  they  shall  vouch  to  warranty  the  heir  or  heirs  of  the  said 
Robert,  and  she  shall  recover  her  dower  of  the  same  and  have 
execution  tliereof,  and  they  shall  not  against  the  said  heir  or  heirs 

*  Tested  by  the  guardian. 


474 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  5d — cont. 

obtain  to  the  value  of  the  .same,  then  tliey  may  di.strain  as  aforesaid  ; 
also  that  so  long  as  they  shall  well  and  peaeeably  possess  and  have 
the  said  rent,  any  exeeution  to  the  value  of  tlie  recovery  of  such 
dower  against  the  heirs  of  the  said  Robert,  iiis  or  their  assigns, 
shall  thereupon  cease.  Dated  London,  Monday  before  All  Saints 
46  EdMard  111. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Robert  de  Swynborne  of  the  one  part 
and  William  de  Sandford  the  elder  clerk,  William  de  Sandford  the 
younger,  Thomas  Daunay  and  Edmund  de  Sandford  of  the  other  part, 
being  the  defeasance  of  a  bond  in  400  marks  jjayable  at  Martinmas 
after  Easter  next  by  recognisance  in  chancery  made  to  the  said  Robert 
by  the  said  VV'illiam,  William,  Thomas  and  Edmund,  and  of  a  bond 
in  200  marks  payable  at  Martinmas  one  year  after  likewise  made  to 
him  by  them,  the  first  upon  condition  that  they  or  one  of  them  shall 
in  the  church  of  St.  Thomas  of  Acres  London  pay  to  Sir  Robert  or  his 
executors  100/.  at  the  date  first  mentioned,  and  the  second  upon 
condition  that  they  shall  there  likewise  pay  100  marks  one  year  later 
namely  in  1374,  and  in  each  case  Sir  Robert  shall  be  bound  to  ^\■ithdraw 
the  recognisance  aforesaid,  the  said  William,  William,  Thomas  and 
Edmond  covenanting  that  any  alleged  payment  elsew  here  made  than 
at  the  place  mentioned  without  shewing  an  acquittance  sealed  with 
Sir  Robert's  seal  shall  be  null  and  void.  Dated  London,  Wednesday 
before  All  Saints  46  Edward  111.     French. 

^Memorandum  of  acknow  ledgment  by  the  said  Robert  of  the  foregoing 
indentures,  27  October. 

Writing  of  William  de  Blakedene,  attorney  of  Sir  John  de  Neville 
knight  lord  of  Raby,  being  a  receipt  and  acquittance  to  the  executors 
of  Robert  de  Ufford  earl  of  Suffolk  for  30/.  received  by  the  hands  of 
John  de  Birlyngiiam  mercer  of  London  for  the  farm  of  Blyborgh  for 
Easter  term  last.     Dated  London,  4  August  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  29  October. 

Oct.  28.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London  or  of  Great 
Westminster.  Jernemuth.  Order  to  suffer  William  Shirbourne  parson  of  Fulham, 
John  de  Norwich  chaplain  and  John  lllerd  clerk,  who  A\ith  the  king's 
licence  are  journeying  towards  the  court  of  Rome,  freely  without  let 
in  one  of  those  ports  to  pass  thither  with  one  yeoman  of  their  company, 
any  command  of  the  king  to  the  keepers  previously  addressed  to  the 
contrary  notwithstanding,  provided  that  they  take  or  carry  with 
them  nought  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  realm,  the  said  parson 
having  mainperned  in  chancery  for  himself  and  his  fellows  for  payment 
of  100/.  to  the  king's  use  if  they  or  either  of  them  shall  attempt 
aught  that  may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  his  people. 

Vacated,  because  thifi  writ  was  given  up  in  chancery  unopened  (in  cera) 
and  nothing  was  done  thereupon,  wherefore  it  is  cancelled. 


Nov.  5.  John  Symond   of   ByHete   to  Alexander  atte   Legh  and   Peter  de 

Westminster.  Stonersh'.     Recognisance  for  10/.  payable  by  instalments,  to  be  levied, 
in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Surrey. 

Charter  of  Frank  dc  Scoland  of  Catangre,  giving  with  warranty 
to  John  Payn  citizen  and  armourer  of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 


46   EDWARD    III.  475 


1872.  Membrane  5d — cont. 

tlie  manor  of  (Iivat  W'arle  eo.  Essex  and  all  other  lands,  rents  and 
services,  knights"  fees  and  advousons  whatsoever  in  the  town  of  (iroat 
Warlc  uhich  at  any  time  were  in  the  hand  of  Henry  Scoland  fatlier  of 
the  said  Frank.  Witnesses  :  Thomas  Vhong,  Thomas  Belhous, 
John  Harden,  John  8todeye,  Henry  Caperoun,  Adam  Broun.  Dated 
Warle.,  Wednesday  the  feast  of  Michaelmas  4t>  Edward  111. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  2\'ovember. 

Charter  indented  of  Erank  de  Scoland,  witnessing  tiiat  lie  has  given 
to  John  i'ayn  citizen  and  armourer  of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
a  yearly  rent  of  20/.  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even 
portions  of  all  the  lantls  which  he  the  said  Frank  has  in  the  town  of 
Exton  or  elsewhere  in  St)merset  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears, 
under  a  condition  that  whereas  by  feoffment  of  the  said  Frank  and 
of  Thomas  de  Yaueworth  the  said  John  has  the  manor  of  Great  Warle 
and  all  other  tlie  lands,  rents  and  services  in  that  town,  if  he  the  said 
Frank  or  his  heirs,  or  Emehna  his  wife  or  her  heirs,  or  any  other  having 
title  of  right  shall  by  judgment  upon  an  action  tried  recover  the  said 
manor,  lands,  rents  and  services  by  reason  of  any  title  oi'  charge  previous 
to  this  date,  the  said  John,  his  heirs  and  assigns  shall  thenceforth 
take  and  may  by  distress  levy  the  aforesaid  rent,  and  if  by  such  judgment 
they  shall  lose  the  premises  or  any  parcel  thereof,  or  shall  be  ousted, 
or  charged  by  any  person  by  reason  of  any  judgment,  execution,  statute 
merchant  or  of  the  staple,  or  grant  of  any  yearly  rent  except  2  marks 
granted  to  Thomas  Yonge  it  is  said,  or  any  other  charge  w  hatsoever, 
they  shall  thenceforth  take  and  may  by  distress  levy  so  much  of  the 
said  20/.  as  may  ])ertain  to  double  the  parcel  or  parcels  so  lost  or  charged 
or  wherefrom  they  shall  be  ousted,  saving  that  if  the  said  Emelina  or 
Clarice  w  ho  was  wife  of  Henry  8ct)land  father  of  the  said  Frank  shall 
recover  any  parcel  of  the  premises  in  name  of  dower,  the  sum  of  the 
said  rent  thereby  incurred  amounting  to  double  the  value  of  such  dower 
shall  altogether  cease  after  that  the  reversion  of  the  dower  shall  fall 
in  to  the  said  John,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  and  saving  always  that  as 
and  w  hen  any  charging  of  the  premises  or  parcel  thereof  shall  be  deter- 
mined the  sum  of  the  said  rent  thereby  incurred  as  aforesaid  shall 
altogether  cease,  and  that  so  long  as  the  said  John,  his  heirs  and  assigns 
shall  have  and  enjoy  the  premises  without  loss  and  without  being 
ousted  by  judgment,  execution,  recognisance  or  charge  whatsoever 
(the  said  2  marks  excepted)  payment  of  the  said  rent  shall  be  in 
suspense. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  5  November. 

Mainprise  under  a  pain  of  100  marks  by  William  Byde  clerk,  appearing 
in  person  in  chancery  on  25  November,  for  Robert  GrondeweUe 
clerk  who  was  with  the  king's  licence  journeying  to  parts  over  sea, 
that  he  should  not  there  attempt  or  cause  to  be  attempted  aught  that 
might  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  realm. 

Membrane  4rf. 

Nov.  24.  To  the  sheriff  of  Northumberland.  Order  to  cause  Thomas  Surteys 
Westminster,  and  John  de  Midford,  knights  of  the  shire  at  the  parliament  summoned 
at  Westminster  on  the  morrow  of  All  Souls  last,  to  have  of  the  commons 
of  the  county  14/.  Ids.  for  their  expenses  coming  to  the  said  parliament, 
there  abiding  and  thence  returning  to  their  own  again,  namely  4-s.  each 
for  37  days. 


476  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  4d — cont. 

The  like.  t(j  tlie,  following  sherirt-s  : 

VVestmoilaud.     Hugh  do  Louthie  11.  Hn.  for  37  days. 
Cumberland.     Robert  Moubray  and  John  de  Denton  14/.  16.'*.  for 

37  days. 
Yorkshire.     Simon  Warde  and  Simon  de  Heselarton  13/.  4a-.  for 

33  days. 
Lancashire.     xS'icholas  de  Hav'eryngton  (>/.    I2s.  for  33  days. 
Lincolnshire.     John  Dymiuok  and  William  Marmyon  12/.  Sn.  for 

31  days. 
Notynghamshire.     Simon  de  Leke  llG.s.  for  2i)  days. 
Derbyshire.     Alvered  de  Sulny  and  John  Fraunceys  11/.  126'.  for 

29  days. 
Leycestershire.     John  de  Berkeleye  UOa-.  for  2'J  days. 
Norhamptonshire.     Thomas  de  Preston  and  Simon  Warde  10/.  I6s. 

for  27  days. 
Stafi'ordshire.     William  de  Halghton  11 66-.  for  29  days. 
Salop.     Robert  Corbet  6/.  4o>-.  for  31  days. 
Cambridgeshire.     John  Cheyne  1006'.  for  25  days. 
Huntingdonshire.     Nicholas  Styuecle  and  John  de  Wauton  10/.  fcjr 

25  days. 
Bedfordshire.     John  Ragoun  100*.  for  25  days. 
Rukinghamshire.     Geoffrey   Lucy   and    John    Arderne    10/.    for 

25  days. 
Essex.     Thomas  Tyrel  and  John  de  Rampton  !)/.  4.s-.  for  23  days. 
Hertfordshire.     Thomas  de  Fitlyng  and  Thomas  de  Bas.syrigbourne 

9/.  4:8.  for  23  days, 
Kent.     William   de  Pympe  and  James  de   Rekham   9/.   4.s'.   for 

23  days. 
Devon.     William   Luscote   and   Richard   Chuselden   12/.   86'.   for 

31  days. 
Oxfordshire.     Thomas  de  Broughton  lOO*'.  for  25  days. 
Worcestershire.     John  atte  Wode  and  Richard  Fyton  11/.  125.  for 

29  days. 
Herefordshire.     John    Oldecastel   and   John   Pryde    12/.    85.    for 

31  days. 
The  county  of  Suthampton.     Philip  de  Popham  lOOs.  for  25  days. 
Somerset.     Hugh  Durburgh  1166'.  for  29  days. 
Dorset.     Stephen  Derby   IIG*'.   for  29  days. 
Wyltesir.     Robert  de  la  Mare  and  Nicholas  Bonham  10/.  18s.  (sic) 

for  27  days. 
]VIiddlesex.     Jolm  Sordych  4/.  4.s.  for  21  days. 
Surrey.     William  de  Cobeham  and  William  Neudegate  9/.  4s.  for 

23  days. 
Sussex.     Andrew    Pev^erel    and    Robert    Halsham    9/.    4s.    for 

23  days. 
Norffolk.     Robert  de  Mortuo  Mari  and  William  Clere  10/.  16s.  for 

27  days. 
Suffolk.     Edmund  de  Hemgrave  and  Jolm  Shardelowe  10/.  16s.  for 

27  days. 
Gloucestershire.     John  Lucy  116s.  for  29  days. 
[Prynne,  Parliamenlary  Wrils,  iv,  p.  293.] 

Nov.  24.         To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Newcastle  upon  T}Tie. 
WestminBter.  Order  to  cause  Robert  de  Angerton  and  LaAvrence  de  Acton  burgesses 


J«i    EDWARD    ill. 


477 


1372. 


Membrane  4d — cont. 


at  the  parliament  Ix'foio  mentioned  to  have  of  the  commonalty  of  the 
said  tow  II  11.  S.y.  for  their  expenses,  namely  2.v.  a  day  (laeh  for  ."{7  days. 
The  like  to  the  mayors  and  haililTs  of  the  following  cities  (sic)  and 
towns  : 

Kyngeston    upon    Hull.      Richard    de    Uaiton    hui'gess    (iiw.    for 

33  days. 
Cxrymesby.     John  d<^  ( Jry mesby  and  Lawrence  de  Wotton  burges.se3 

6/.  4.9.  for  31   days. 
Newcastle    under    Line.     Edmund    'Poly    and    William    Coltloghe 

WGs.  for  2i)  days. 
Bedeford.     William  Brasiere  and  Thomas  Warde  burgesses  100.S. 

for  25  days. 
Maldon.     John  Palmere  and  U'illiam  de  Halle  burgesses  41.  12s. 
for  23  davs. 
[Ibid.  p.  295.]" 

Dec.  9.  Thomas    Coupere    parson    of    Holcote    co.    Bedford    to    Rejiiold 

Westminster.  Bernewelle  of  Essex.  Recognisance  for  100/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in 
Bedfordshire. 


Membrane  3d. 

Nov.  28.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London  and  the  river 
Westminster.  Thames  and  in  the  port  of  Dovorre.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of 
William  bishop  of  Hereford,  to  suffer  Master  Roger  Dawe  his  clerk 
by  one  of  those  ports  freely  without  let  to  pass  towards  the  court  of 
Rome  with  one  servant  and  one  horse,  taking  20/.  for  his  expenses, 
any  command  to  them  previously  addressed  to  the  contrary  not\nth- 
standing  ;  as  the  said  bishop's  petition  shews  that  he  is  sending  his 
said  clerk  thither  to  prosecute  the  bishop's  business  and  his  own, 
and  the  bishop  has  before  the  chancellor  mainperned  at  his  peril  that 
the  said  clerk  shall  there  prosecute  or  attempt  nought  that  may  tend 
to  the  hurt  of  the  crown  and  the  king's  dignity,  to  impair  the  force 
of  the  laws  of  the  realm,  or  to  the  damage  of  the  people  ;  and  the  king 
grants  special  licence  accordingly. 

Nov.  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.  Order,  by  mainprise  of  Nicholas  de 
Westminster.  Mounburcher  knight,  John  de  Dronsfeld  and  John  de  Goldesburgh, 
to  stay  altogether  the  execution  of  a  writ  to  him  addressed,  directing 
him  to  cause  Richard  de  Goldesburgh  knight  to  come  before  him 
and  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriff  laid  upon  him,  for  which  the 
sheriff  would  answer,  to  compel  him  to  lind  mainpernors  that  he  should 
not  inflict  nor  procure  any  hurt  or  harm  upon  Robert  de  Arthyngton, 
and  if  he  should  refuse,  to  take  him  and  keep  him  in  the  king's  prison 
in  safe  custody  until  he  should  so  do  ;  as  lately  at  the  petition  of  the 
said  Robert,  averring  that  the  said  Richard  grievously  threatened 
him  in  life  and  limbs,  the  king  by  writ  ordered  tlie  sheriff'  as  aforesaid, 
but  the  said  Nicholas,  John  and  John  appearing  in  person  in  chancery 
have  mainperned  for  the  said  Richard  under  a  pain  of  20  marks  that 
he  shall  cause  or  procure  no  hurt  or  harm  to  the  said  Robert. 

Writing  indented  of  Benedict  Zacarie  merchant  and  citizen  of 
London,  of  his  free  will  granting,  surrendering  and  releasing  to  the 
king  all  his  right,  estate  and  possession  in  a  tenement  and  appurtenances 


478  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  3d — cont. 

in  the  ward  of  Vynetry  and  parish  of  St.  Thomas  the  Apostle  situate 
between  a  tenement  .sometime  of  Ahm  atte  Mounte  of  Stanes  towards 
the  ea.st  and  a  tenement  of  Simon  de  Hroune.sfoid  towards  the  we.st, 
of  whieh  tenement  it  is  found  by  in(|uisition,  taken  at  the  king's  eommand 
by  John  Pyt'l  nuvyor  of  the  city  of  Lomhtn  and  escheator  therein, 
that  Henry  Causton  citi/en  of  London  in  the  23rd  year  of  tlie  reign 
died  sei.sed  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  thnt  he  had  the  same  of  the  gift 
and  feoffment  of  W'ilham  (Jaleys  hite  servant  of  (^ueen  I.sahel,  tliat  by 
a  recognisance  in  chancery  th<'  said  Henry  hound  liimself  in  2,000/.  to 
Walter  de  Mauny  knight,  that  for  default  of  payment  of  the  said  sum 
the  said  VV'alter  by  virtue  of  the  said  recognisance  had  delivery  of 
a  moiety  of  the  said  tenement,  tliat  he  granted  all  his  right,  estate 
and  po.ssession  of  the  same  by  extent  thereof  made  to  the  said 
Benedict,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  to  hold  until  full  payment  should  be 
made,  that  by  a  statute  merchant,  made  before  Roger  \^irly  mayor 
of  the  town  of  Norwich  and  Edmund  Rose  clerk  of  that  town,  the  said 
Henry  was  also  bound  in  400/.  to  f)ne  fioger  Hardegraye,  that  for 
default  of  payment  the  other  moiety  of  the  said  tenement  was  delivered 
to  the  said  Roger,  his  heiis  or  assigns,  to  hold  until  that  sum  should  be 
fully  paid,  that  tiie  said  Roger  being  in  full  possession  of  tiiat  moiety 
granted  all  his  estate  and  possession  thereof  to  Robert  de  la  More 
and  Geoffrey  de  Newenton  citizens  of  London,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
that  they  granted  that  moiety  to  the  said  Benedict,  that  so  he  the  said 
Benedict  by  virtue  of  the  recognisance  and  statute  merchant  aforesaid 
has  an  estate  in  the  whole  tenement,  so  holding  tlie  same  and  taking 
the  issues  and  piofits,  and  that  the  same  is  held  of  the  king  in  free 
burgage  as  is  all  the  city  of  London.  Dated  London,  12  December 
46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  14  December. 

Memorandum  that  Robert  de  Biterlegh  knight,  lately  taken  and 
imprisoned  in  Neugate  prison  for  that  he  took  the  kings  money  for  his 
wages  but  sailed  not  over  sea  on  the  king's  service  in  the  company 
of  John  lord  de  Neville  according  to  the  form  of  his  retainer,  was  by 
the  king's  command  sent  by  the  sheriffs  into  the  chancery,  and  there 
being  on  8  December  this  year  made  oath  that  he  will  promptly  content 
the  king  of  the  moneys  so  received,  and  will  at  all  times  be  ready  to 
answer  the  king,  the  said  lord  de  Neville  and  any  other  person  what- 
soever in  that  behalf.  Therefore  he  is  set  free  from  prison,  and  the 
sheriffs  are  told  by  the  chancellor  to  suffer  him  to  go  his  way. 

Dec.  17.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Master  William 
Westminster.  Menesse  official  of  the  arch[deacon]  of  Canterbury,  to  stay  the  taking 
of  his  body  by  mainprise  of  Nicholas  de  Baa,  William  de  Cornewaile 
of  Kent,  John  de  Shelford  and  William  de  Ipeswyth  {sic)  of  London, 
bringing  this  writ  in  the  king's  court  on  the  day  that  a  writ  de  judicio 
against  him  at  the  suit  of  William  Jane  is  returnable  ;  as  his  petition 
shews  that  lately  by  the  said  writ  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  take 
the  said  official's  body  so  as  to  have  him  in  the  king's  court  at  a  set  day 
to  answer  as  well  the  king  as  the  said  William  Jane  wherefore  in  the 
court  of  Christianity  contrary  to  the  king's  prohibition  he  held  a  plea 
concerning  great  trees  of  the  said  William  Jane,  and  that  he  is  ready 
to  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Nicholas  and  the  others, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of 
20/.  to  have  him  in  the  king's  court  on  the  day  named. 


46    EDWARD    111. 


479 


137*2.  Membrnne  3rf — covf. 

Dec.  7.  To  the  sheriff  of  Sussex.     Order,  upon  tlie  petition  of  Jolin  Cameswell 

VVestminBter.  parson  of  Bergliton  in  the  clioces(^  of  Xorwieh,  to  stay  altogether  the 
exigents  against  him  and  the  taking  of  his  body  for  the  cause  hereinafter 
mentioned  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  S.  arehJ»ishop  of  Canterbury 
is  imi)leading  liim  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  concerning  a  debt 
of  20  marks  wherein  the  said  John  was  bound  to  th(^  said  archbishop 
for  the  first  fruits  of  the  said  church  by  reason  of  the  vacancy  thereof, 
of  whicli  sum  lie  has  contented  tlie  arciibishop,  and  that  by  writ  de 
judicio  he  is  put  in  exigents  in  Sussex  to  be  outhiwed  for  that  he  came 
not  before  the  said  justices  to  answer  concerning  that  debt  ;  and  tlie 
said  John  has  now  paid  the  said  archbishop  those  20  marks,  as  the 
archbishop  has  by  letters  patent  signihed  to  the  king,  pra\ang  that 
the  exigents  be  stayed, 

Dec.  18.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  by  mainprise  of  Robert  Beverage 
Westminster,  of  C'ambridgeshire  and  William  de  Hopton  of  Salop,  to  set  free  John 
{sic)  Capel  from  prison,  although  lately  upon  infoiination  received  that 
William  Capel  chaplain  is  purposing  to  depart  to  foreign  parts  in  order 
to  attempt  many  things  to  the  pn^judice  of  the  king  and  crown,  in  con- 
tempt of  the  king  and  contrary  to  the  proclamation  and  the  king's 
prohibition,  the  king  by  writ  ordered  the  shcritYs  to  cause  him  to  come 
before  them  and  to  find  mainjiernors  who,  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the 
sheriffs  laid  upon  them,  would  mainpern  liim  that  he  should  not  depart 
thither  nor  attempt  aught  that  might  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king 
or  crown,  and  if  he  should  refuse,  to  commit  him  to  prison  there  to  be 
kept  in  safe  custody  until  he  would  willingly  so  do,  and  by  virtue  of 
that  command  the  said  William  Capel  is  taken  and  imprisoned  it  is 
said  ;  but  the  said  Robert  and  William  de  Hopton,  appearing  in  person 
in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  20/.  that  the  said  William 
Capel  shall  not  pass  to  any  foreign  parts  to  prosecute  aught  to  the 
prejudice  of  the  king  or  crown  ;  and  the  said  William  Capel  has  made 
oath  in  chancery  that  he  will  not  depart  thither  for  that  purpose. 


Membrane  2d. 

Dec.  18.  To  Thomas  de  Ludelowe  and  his  fellows  justices  appointed  in  Kent 
Westminster,  for  keeping  the  peace.  Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Munde  and  Thomas 
Povy  of  Kent  to  stay  altogether  the  further  execution  of  the  king's 
late  writ  commanding  the  justices  to  cause  Nicholas  de  Baa  and  William 
de  CornewaiUe  late  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Canterbury  and  Henry  de 
Lincoln  to  come  before  tliem  and  compel  them  to  find  mainpernors  who 
under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  justices  laid  upon  them,  for  which  the  justices 
would  answer,  would  mainpern  the  said  Xicliolas,  William  and  Henry 
that  they  should  not  do  nor  procure  bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  Thomas 
Hoke,  and  if  they  should  refuse,  to  commit  them  to  the  king's  nearest 
gaol  there  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  until  they  would  w  illingly  so  do, 
and  order  to  revoke  any  execution  thereof  that  they  have  made  or 
ordered  to  be  made,  although  at  the  petition  of  the  said  Thomas  Hoke, 
averring  that  he  was  by  the  said  Xicholas,  William  and  Henry  openly 
threatened  in  life  and  limbs,  the  king  gave  command  as  aforesaid ; 
as  the  said  John  and  Thomas  Povy,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
have  mainperned  the  said  Nicholas,  William  and  Henry  under  a  pain  of 
40/.  that  no  hurt  nor  peril  shall  happen  to  Thomas  Hoke  oy  them  or 
by  their  procurement. 


480 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


137*2.  Membrane  2d — cont. 

Nov.  5.  To  tlie  slierifF  of  Kent.     Order,  by  mainprise  of  Geoffrey  Colepeper 

WeetminHter.  and  Ixobert  CuoUe  of  ( Jravesendc,  to  stay  tiie  taking  (jf  the  body  of 
Robert  Spryner  by  virtue  of  the  king's  late  UTit  ordeiing  the  sheriff  to 
cause  the  said  Roheit  Spryncr  to  eoine  befoie  him  and  oompel  him  to 
find  security  under  a  pain  to  be  by  tiu;  shcriil  set,  and  for  wliich  the 
sheritt'  would  answer,  that  he  would  not  do  nor  procure  bodily  hurt  or 
harm  to  Robert  Arderne,  and  if  he  should  refuse,  to  take  the  said 
Robert  tSpryner  and  keep  him  in  prison  in  safe  custody  until  he  would 
willingly  so  do  ;  as  the  said  (Jeoffrey  and  Robert  Cooke,  appearing  in 
person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  for  him  under  a  pain  of  20/.  that 
he  shall  do  or  ])rocure  no  bodily  huit  oi  harm  to  the  said  Robert 
Ardeine. 


Dec.  12. 

VV'estminster. 


1373. 
Jan.  3. 

Westminster. 


1372. 

Nov.  16. 
Westminster. 


To  the  sheriff  of  York.  Order,  upon  petition  made  on  behalf  of 
Peter  de  Malo  Lacu  knight,  by  mainprise  of  William  Lambard  and 
Robert  VVyclyf  of  Yorkshire,  Lawrence  de  Acton  of  Nortluimberland 
and  Oeoffrey  de  Kent  of  London  to  stay  the  taking  of  his  body,  bringing 
this  writ  before  the  king  at  the  day  a  writ  tested  by  John  Cavendissh 
chief  justice  is  returnable,  whereby  the  king  ortlered  the  sheriff  to  take 
the  said  Peter  so  as  to  have  hi.s  body  before  the  king  at  a  set  day  to 
answer  to  the  king  for  harbouiing  Robert  Hunter  convicted  of  causing 
the  death  of  Thomas  Barbour,  and  William  Stedeman  convicted  of 
causing  the  death  of  Geoffrey  Colt,  foi-  which  he  is  indicted  it  is  said  ; 
as  now  the  said  ]ietition  shews  that  the  said  Peter  is  ready  so  to  answer 
at  the  day  nanu'd,  and  to  stand  to  right  thereupon,  and  the  said 
William  Lambard  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
liave  mainperned  for  him,  body  for  body,  to  have  him  before  the  king 
as  aforesaid. 

To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  stay  altogether  the  execution 
of  a  writ  to  them  lately  addressed,  ordering  them  to  compel  Master 
William  Lonyng  to  find  security  that  he  would  not  without  the  king's 
licence  depart  to  foreign  parts,  nor  there  prosecute  or  cause  to  be 
prosecuted  aught  that  might  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  crown 
or  of  the  realm,  nor  send  any  there  to  prosecute  privileges  to  their 
prejudice,  certifying  such  security  in  chancery,  and  if  they  have  taken 
bonds  of  any  for  finding  such  security',  order  to  restore  the  same 
without  delay  ;  as  the  said  William  has  mainperned  under  a  pain 
of  500/.,  and  Master  Richard  ColleshuUe  clerk  of  Berkshire  and  Master 
John  de  Cantebrugge  of  the  city  of  London  jointly  and  severally 
under  a  pain  of  100/.,  that  without  special  licence  he  shall  not  depart 
thither,  and  shall  not  prosecute  aught  or  cause  aught  to  be  prosecuted 
or  attempted  that  may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  crown,  his 
realm  or  of  the  laws. 

To  the  sheriff  of  York.  Order  to  set  free  W^illiam  Mouldeson  of 
Snayth  from  prison,  if  detained  for  the  cause  hereinafter  mentioned 
and  for  none  other,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  king  in  the  octaves  of 
St.  Hilary  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  that  the  said  William,  being 
indicted  before  the  guardians  of  the  peace  and  justices  of  oyer  and 
terminer  in  the  Westrithing  for  certain  trespasses  against  the  peace, 
by  inquisition  whereupon  he  put  himself  before  them  at  suit  of  the  king 
was  convicted  and  committed  to  prison  there  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody 
until  he  should  content  the  king  of  that  which  pertains  to  him  for  his 


46   EDWARD   III. 


481 


1372. 


Membrane  2d — cont. 


1373. 
Jan.  12 

Westminste 


ransom  ;  and  for  particular  causes  willing  to  be  fully  certified  touching 
the  indictment  and  the  record  and  process  thereupon  made,  the  king 
commanded  William  Mirfeld  one  of  the  guardians  and  justices  afore- 
said to  send  the  same  \\ithout  delay  under  his  seal  together  with  the 
writ  to  him  addressed,  so  that  the  king  should  have  them  in  the  octaves 
of  St.  Hilary  to  deal  further  therewith  as  he  sliould  think  fit  according 
to  right  and  to  the  law  and  custom  of  England,  xyhereupon  John  de 
Hattefeld  clerk,  John  Dayville  of  Laxton,  Thomas  Duffeld  clerk 
and  Adam  de  Hethensale  of  Yorkshire,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
have  mainperned  for  the  said  William  Mouldeson  to  answer  to  the  king 
for  his  ransom  if  the  said  judgment  should  before  the  king  be  affirmed. 

To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  by  a  mainprise  to  stay  altogether 
r.  the  execution  of  the  king's  late  writ  ordering  thorn  to  cause  Master 
Lawrence  de  Nigris  clerk  to  find  security  that  he  should  not  without 
the  king's  licence  depart  to  foreign  parts,  nor  attempt  or  cause  to  be 
attempted  aught  that  might  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  crown, 
certifying  in  chancery  the  security  so  taken  ;  as  the  said  Lawrence 
has  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  500/.,  and  Peter  Marche  and  Nicholas 
Johannis  merchants  severally  under  a  pain  of  100/.,  that  he  shall  not 
\\ithout  the  king's  special  licence  depart  thither,  nor  attempt  or  cause 
to  be  attempted  aught  as  aforesaid. 

Jan.  15.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order  by  mainprise  of  William  Hert  and 
Westminster.  Lawrence  atte  Hale  of  Kent  to  sta}^  altogether  the  further  execution 
of  the  king's  writ  against  John  son  of  the  said  Lawrence  ;  as  lately 
at  the  petition  of  John  son  of  John  Wykherst,  averring  that  he  was  by 
Andrew  atte  Hale,  the  said  Lawrence  and  the  said  John  his  son  griev- 
ously and  openly  threatened  in  life  and  limbs,  the  king  ordered  the 
sheriff  to  cause  them  to  come  before  him  and  compel  them  to  find 
security  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriff  laid  upon  them,  for  which 
the  sheriff  would  answer,  that  they  should  do  or  procure  no  hurt 
or  harm  to  the  said  John  son  of  John,  and  if  they  should  refuse,  to  take 
them  and  keep  them  in  prison  in  safe  custody  until  they  would  willingly 
so  do  ;  and  the  said  William  and  Lawrence,  appearing  in  person  in 
chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  20/.  for  the  said  John  son 
of  Lawrence,  in  case  he  shall  do  or  procure  hurt  or  harm  to  the  said 
John  son  of  John. 


1372.  Membrane  \d. 

Dec.  25.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lancaster.  Order,  while  a  plea  before  the  Justices 
Westminster,  of  the  Bench  between  William  de  Walton  plaintiff  and  John  de 
Radeclif  of  Cliderhou  and  Richard  son  of  John  de  CUderhou 
defendants  is  pending  without  debate,  to  stay  the  further  execution 
of  a  writ  de  judicio  against  the  said  William  ;  as  lately  before  Roger 
Wyche  then  mayor  of  the  town  of  Preston  and  John  de  Longeleye 
then  clerk,  appointed  to  take  recognisances  of  debt  at  Preston  according 
to  the  statute  for  merchants  published  at  Acton  Burnell,  the  said 
William  made  a  recognisance  for  50  marks  payable  at  a  set  term 
now  expired  to  Henry  son  of  Thomas  de  Standen  (now  deceased), 
the  said  John  and  Richard  ;  and  by  the  said  writ  the  king  ordered  the 
sheriff  to  take  the  body  of  the  said  William,  if  a  layman,  and  keep  him 
in  prison  in  safe  custody  until  he  should  content  the  said  John  and 
Richard  (the  surviving  creditors)  of  that  debt,  and  to  cause  all  his  lands 

OB  31 


482  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  Id — cont. 

to  be  by  true  men  of  the  sheriff's  bailiwick  extended  and  delivered 
to  the  said  John  and  Richard  according  to  the  statute  ;  but  the  said 
plea  is  pending  without  judgment,  the  plaint  of  the  said  William 
having  been  heard  touching  an  indenture  between  the  parties  thereupon 
made. 

1373. 

Jan.  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order,  under  pain  of  forfeiture,  upon  sight 
Westminster,  of  these  presents  forthwith  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  every 
week  until  the  Annunciation  next  on  the  king's  behalf  forbidding 
any  man  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition  to  receive  within  the  realm 
gold  or  silver  of  the  money  of  Scotland  for  buying  or  selling,  in  payment 
of  rents  or  for  any  other  cause  whatsoever,  but  that  every  man  having 
such  money  in  his  hands  shall  bring  it  into  the  king's  bulUon  taking 
for  it  there  the  value,  so  that  if  after  the  said  feast  any  such  money 
shall  be  found  in  the  hands  of  any  person  within  the  realm  the  same 
shall  be  forfeited,  and  the  king  shall  have  one  moiety  thereof  and  the 
finder  the  other  moiety,  whereupon  the  king  shall  cause  inquisition 
to  be  made  when  need  be  ;  and  order  to  cause  any  such  money  found 
after  the  said  feast  in  the  hands  of  any  man  in  that  county  to  be  seized 
as  forfeit  into  the  king's  hand  and  answer  to  be  made  for  it  to  the  king, 
saving  always  one  moiety  to  the  finder  as  aforesaid  ;  as  with 
assent  of  the  prelates,  lords,  nobles  and  others  in  parliament 
assembled  at  Westminster  at  the  morrow  of  All  Souls  last  it  was  agreed 
that  proclamation  should  so  be  made  in  the  cities,  boroughs,  market 
towns  and  other  places  of  the  realm,  and  it  is  the  king's  will  that  this 
agreement  be  put  in  execution.  By  the  whole  council  of  parhament. 
The  like  to  singular  the  sheriffs  throughout  England. 

To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Karliol.     Like  order  to  cause 
proclamation  to  be  made  in  that  city. 
The  like  to  the  following  : — 

The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Penereth. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne. 

The  bailiffs  of  Tjmemuth. 

The  bailiffs  of  Bamburgh. 

The  bailiffs  of  Hertilpole. 

The  bailiffs  of  Ripon. 

The  bailiffs  of  Whiteby. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  York. 

The  bailiffs  of  Scardeburgh. 

The  bailiffs  of  Beverley. 

The  bailiffs  of  Pontefract. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull. 

The  bailiffs  of  Doncastre. 

The  bailiffs  of  Barton  upon  Humbre. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Lincoln. 

The  baihffs  of  the  toAvn  of  St.  Botolph. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Notyngham. 

The  bailiffs  of  Newerk. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Grymesby. 

The  bailiffs  of  Grantham. 

The  baiUffs  of  Stanford. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Norhampton. 

The  bailiffs  of  Bukingham. 


46    EDWARD    lU.  483 


1373.  Membrane  Id — cont. 

The  bailiffs  of  Huntingdon. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Cantebrigge. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Lenne. 

The  bailiffs  of  Great  Jememuth. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Norwich. 

The  bailiffs  of  Gippewic. 

The  baihffs  of  Colcestre. 

The  baihffs  of  Ware. 

The  baihffs  of  St.  Albans. 

The  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London. 

The  baihffs  of  the  city  of  Rochester. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Canterbury. 

The  mayor  and  baihffs  of  Faversham. 

The  mayor  and  baihffs  of  HastjTiges. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Wynchelse. 

The  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Cicestre. 

The  mayor  and  baihffs  of  Suthampton. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Winchester. 

The  constable  of  Caresbroke  castle  in  the  Isle  of  Wight. 

The  mayor  and  baihffs  of  Bristol. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Exeter. 

The  mayor  and  baihffs  of  Oxford. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Coventre. 

The  baihffs  of  Newcastle  under  Lyme. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Lyverpole. 

The  baihffs  of  Suth\\erk. 
The  like  to  Th.  bishop  of  Durham,  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made 
within  tlie  liberty  of  Durham. 

The  like  to  William  de  Latymer  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and 
warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports,  or  to  his  lieutenant,  to  cause  proclamation 
to  be  made  within  the  hberty  of  the  said  ports. 


1372. 


Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  on  22  July  this  year  made  in  the  chancery 
at  Westminster  by  Henry  lord  de  Percy,  Robert  Neville  knight  and 
Master  Alexander  de  Neville  arclideacon  of  Durham  for  William  de 
Newebigg;ynig,  that  he  shall  truly  observe  all  the  conditions  and 
covenants  contained  in  an  indenture  made  between  the  king  and  him, 
and  in  case  he  shall  in  any  of  them  make  default  the  said  mainpernors 
[have  bound]  themselves  to  content  the  king  of  what  by  the  said 
William's  default  he  shall  thereof  be  lacking  :  also  of  a  mainprise 
after  there  made  on  4  August  46  Edward  III  for  security  of  the  said 
Henry,  Robert  and  Alexander  by  James  Lyons  and  William  Weston, 
for  men  at  arms  of  the  number  that  the  said  William  Neubiggyng  is 
by  the  said  covenants  bound  to  the  king  to  find,  namely  John  Croghowe, 
John  de  Reule,  James  van  Dultyn,  Hervey  Scarthjoi  Rode,  Henry 
Lewe,  Ulryk  van  Nurmargh,  John  Slothowe  and  John  Grove,  that  they 
shall  sail  on  the  king's  service,  and  shall  truly  perform  and  keep  all 
the  conditions  of  their  retainer  according  to  the  said  indentures,  and 
in  case  any  of  them  shall  make  default  in  any  of  the  premises  the  said 
James  and  William  de  Weston  have  bound  themselves  to  save  harm- 
less the  said  Henry,  Robert  and  Alexander,  and  to  content  the  king 
of  what  he  shall  be  lacking  in  the  premises. 

Like  mainprise  and  bond  the  same  da}'^  of  William  Biset  for  William 
de  Stratthy,  that  he  shall  sail  on  the  king's  ser\nce  with  three  men 
at  arms. 


484  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1372.  Membrane  \d — cont. 

Like  mainprise  and  bond  the  same  day  of  Peter  Skynner  of  London 
for  David  de  Balglany,  that  he  shall  sail  on  the  king's  service. 

Like  mainprise  and  bond  of  Hugh  de  Calvyley  knight  on  28  August 
in  the  chancery  at  Canterbury  for  Thomas  Kynkhorn  knight,  that  he 
shall  sail  on  the  king's  service  with  eight  men  at  arms  and  eight  archers. 

Like  mainprise  and  bond  in  the  chancery  at  London  on  8  November 
following  by  Richard  de  Ordewy  of  Wodestrete,  WilUam  Hert 
'  baker  '  of  Wodestrete,  Geoffrey  Ferrour  of  Wodestrete  and  Stephen 
Cofrere  of  Seintlaurencelane  for  four  men  at  arms  and  eight  archers 
of  the  number  aforesaid,  that  they  shall  sail  etc.  as  above. 

Like  mainprise  and  bond  the  same  day  of  John  de  Swynton  of 
Scotland  for  one  man  at  arms  and  three  archers  of  the  aforesaid 
number. 

Memorandum  that  on  2  December  this  year  in  the  chancery,  in  presence 
of  the  chancellor  and  of  other  the  clerks  of  chancery,  Richard 
de  Ravenser  clerk  delivered  to  WilUam  de  Burstall  clerk  by  the  hands 
of  Thomas  de  Etton  clerk  a  box  containing  one  charter  indented 
made  between  the  king  and  John  king  of  Castile  and  Leon 
concerning  the  earldom  of  Richemund  sealed  with  the  said  John's 
seal,  a  letter  patent  with  the  king's  seal  appointing  the  said  Richard 
his  attorney  to  receive  seisin  of  the  earldom,  castle,  town  and  honour 
of  Richemund,  and  five  letters  patent  bearing  the  seal  of  the  said 
king  of  Castile,  four  of  them  addressed  to  divers  persons  to  deliver 
to  the  king  or  his  attorneys  seisin  of  the  said  earldom,  castle,  town  and 
honour,  and  the  fifth  a  letter  of  intendance  addressed  to  the  archbishops, 
bishops  and  others. 


(485) 


47  EDWARD  III. 


1373.  Membrane  40. 

Feb.  21.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  allow 
Westminster.  Peter  de  Male  Lacu  400  marks  only  of  his  fee  for  keeping  the  town  of 
Berewyc  upon  Twede  for  every  of  the  tiiree  3'ears  of  his  term,  and  to  stay 
their  demand  upon  him  made  by  exchequer  summons  for  1,000  marks 
wherein  he  was  bound  to  the  king  for  the  wardship  hereinafter 
mentioned,  thereof  discharging  the  said  Peter  at  the  exchequer, 
notwithstanding  that  in  the  indentures  or  letters  patent  hereinafter 
recited  no  mention  is  made  of  a  covenant  and  concord  made  between 
Thomas  bishop  of  Exeter  then  treasurer  and  others  of  the  council 
and  the  said  Peter  ;  as  on  20  May  in  the  43rd  year  of  his  reign  the 
king  committed  to  him  the  keeping  of  the  said  town  for  three  years 
from  Michaelmas  then  next,  according  to  an  indenture  made  between 
the  king  and  the  said  Peter,  so  that  for  the  costs  of  men  at  arms,  armed 
men,  hobblers  and  archers,  watchmen  and  others  needful,  and  for  his 
fee  in  that  office  he  should  take  of  the  king  1,000  marks  a  year;  and 
after  on  24  October  following  for  1,000  marks  to  be  by  him  paid  at 
the  exchequer  the  king  granted  to  the  said  Peter  the  wardship  of 
all  the  lands  which  were  of  Ralph  de  Bulmere  until  the  lawful  age 
of  his  heir,  and  the  marriage  of  the  heir  ;  and  now  on  his  behalf  it 
is  shewn  the  king  that  whereas  it  was  after  agreed  between  the  said 
bishop  and  others  and  the  said  Peter  that  he  should  have  that  ward- 
ship in  part  payment  of  his  said  fee  for  the  said  term,  and  that  the 
said  1,000  marks  in  his  hands  should  be  deducted,  and  for  that  cause 
the  said  Peter  covenanted  that  over  and  above  the  sum  so  deducted 
he  should  have  and  take  of  the  king  400  marks  a  3'ear  only  for  the 
keeping  of  the  said  to^^n  of  Berewic  and  for  his  fee,  shewing  further 
that  the  1,000  marks  which  he  was  bound  to  pay  are  demanded  before 
the  treasurer  and  the  barons  for  that  in  the  said  indentures  and  letters 
patent  to  him  made  is  no  mention  of  the  said  agreement,  although 
he  is  taking  only  400  marks  a  3'ear  for  keeping  the  said  town  and 
for  his  fee,  and  that  he  is  being  unlawfully  distrained  for  the  same  ; 
and  the  said  bishop  has  by  the  king's  command  certified  in  chancery 
that  an  agreement  \Aas  made  between  him  on  the  king's  behalf  and 
the  said  Peter  in  the  form  aforesaid.  By  K. 

Feb.  20.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton.  Order  to  cause  four  verderers  in 
Westminster,  the  forest  of  Rokjngham  to  be  elected,  as  well  of  those  who  are  now 
verderers  there  if  sufScienth-  qualified  as  of  others,  and  to  be  set 
in  office  before  the  coming  of  John  de  Foxle  justice  of  the  king's  forest 
this  side  Trent,  notifying  their  names  to  the  king  ;  as  a  session  of 
the  said  justice  or  of  his  representative  in  the  said  forest  is  shortly 
to  be  held  in  that  county  as  the  king  has  learned. 

Feb.  20.  To  Roger  Keterigg  escheator  in  Essex.     Order,  if  a  third  part  of 

Westminster,  the  manor  of  Merkes  m  Dunmowe  is  in  the  king's  hand  for  the  reason 

hereinafter  mentioned  and  for  none  other,  to  deliver  the  same  to 

Margaret  who  was  wife  of  William  de  Ferrariis  of  Grobj-  knight  tenant 


486  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane   40 — cont. 

in  chief,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken,  to  hold  of  the  king 
until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  William's  heir  and  of  the  said  heir  when 
he  shall  be  of  age  ;  as  lately  in  the  king's  court  before  the  justices  of 
the  Bench  the  said  Margaret  recovered  in  the  name  of  her  dower  a 
third  part  of  the  said  manor  against  John  bishop  of  Lincoln,  Ralph 
Basset  of  Sapcote  knight,  John  de  Cavendissh,  Simon  Pakeman, 
Richard  de  Leycesti'e,  Edmund  de  Stebbyng  clerk,  Robert  de  Braden- 
ham,  Alan  de  Sutton  and  Thomas  de  Warsop,  as  the  king  is  assured 
by  the  tenor  of  the  record  and  process  of  the  recover}^  M'hich  he  has 
caused  to  come  before  him  in  chancery  ;  and  after  she  petitioned  the 
king  for  removal  of  his  hand  from  the  third  part  so  recovered,  as 
she  is  therefrom  ousted,  and  the  said  manor  and  a  rent  of  \2l.  are  in 
the  king's  hand  by  colour  of  an  inquisition,  lately  taken  at  the  king's 
command  by  William  Tauk  and  Roger  Dygge,  whereby  it  was  found 
that  long  before  his  death  William  de  Ferrariis  by  his  writing  gave  to 
the  said  bishop  etc.  and  to  Robert  de  Ufford  late  earl  of  Suffolk 
the  manor  of  Merkeshall  in  Dunmowe  and  the  said  rent,  and  the 
reversion  of  the  manor  of  Fleckenho  co.  Warrewj^k  then  held  for 
life  bj'  Peter  West  with  reversion  to  the  grantor  and  to  his  heirs, 
shewing  that  the  said  Edmund  and  Robert  de  Bradenham  falsely 
of  their  malice  scheming  to  deprive  Henry  son  and  heir  of  the  said 
William  de  Ferrariis,  being  within  age  and  in  the  king's  wardship,  of 
the  reversion  of  the  said  manors,  caused  write  a  forged  release  wherein 
it  was  contained  that  William  de  Ferrariis  released  to  them  the  said 
Edmund  and  Robert  all  his  right  therein,  that  Robert  de  Bradenham 
released  all  his  estate  therein  to  the  said  Edmund,  and  that  the  said 
Edmund  after  enfeoffed  Thomas  de  Beauchamp  now  earl  of  W^arrewj^k 
of  the  said  manors  to  hold  to  him  and  his  heirs  in  fee  simple,  to  the 
king's  hurt  and  the  disherison  of  the  said  heir  ;  and  willing  to  be  more 
fully  certified  touching  the  premises  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  of 
Essex  to  certify  in  chancery  whether  the  said  bishop  etc.  were  seised 
of  the  said  third  part  at  the  time  of  the  recovery,  by  what  estate  and 
how,  whether  the  said  Margaret  was  put  in  seisin  thereof  by  virtue  of 
the  recovery  or  no,  and  how  long  she  continued  therein,  and  he  has 
certified  that  at  the  time  of  the  recovery  the  said  bishop  and  feoffees 
were  seised  for  life  of  the  whole  manor,  that  the  said  Margaret  was 
by  him  put  in  seisin  of  the  third  part,  and  continued  her  seisin  until 
put  out  by  John  Bataille  late  escheator  by  virtue  of  a  ^mt  to  him 
addressed  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will  that  judgments  rendered  in  his 
court  shall  take  effect. 

To  Richard  de  Foxton  escheator  in  Warwickshire.  Like  order  to 
deliver  to  the  said  Margaret  the  rent  of  12Z.  above  mentioned  for  the 
third  part  of  the  manor  of  Fleckenho  by  her  recovered  in  dower, 
together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  sheriff  has  certified 
that  the  said  Peter  was  seised  of  the  said  third  part  for  life  etc.  until 
put  out  bj^  William  Palmere  late  escheator.  Proviso  that  due  answer 
be  made  to  the  king  for  two  thirds  of  the  said  rent  since  the  death  of 
Wniiam  de  Ferrariis. 

Membrane  39. 

Feb.  4.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  York  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  William  de  Lackjnigby,  who  is  [insufficient!}']  qualified. 


47   EDWARD  III. 


487 


1373.  Membrane  39 — cont. 

Feb.  1.  To  Adam  atte  More  escheator  in  Dorset.     Order  to  remove  the 

Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  w  itli  divers  manors,  lands  etc. 
in  Dorset  held  by  Reymund  Heryng,  delivering  to  Isabel  his  wife 
an}^  issues  thereof  taken  since  her  husband's  death  ;  as  it  is  found  by 
inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  Edmund  Chej'ne  late 
escheator,  that  the  said  Reymund  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that 
county  in  chief  nor  of  any  other  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held 
divers  manors,  lands  etc.  jointly  with  the  said  Isabel  of  others  than 
the  king. 

Feb.  5.  To  John  ap  Rees  escheator  in  Herefordshire.     Order  to  cause  Gilbert 

Sheen.  Talbot,  son  and  heir  of  Richard  Talbot  knight,  to  have  seisin  of  a 
park  called  Pen3'3-ard  which  Elizabeth  his  mother  held  in  dower 
of  his  heritage,  and  which  by  her  death  is  taken  into  the  king's  hand  ; 
as  it  is  found  b^-  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  John 
de  Hortesle  late  escheator,  that  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  the  said 
Richard  held  the  same  in  chief  bj'  knight  service  in  dower  of  the  said 
Gilbert's  heritage,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty  as 
well  for  all  lands  which  the  said  Richard  held  as  for  ail  which  the 
said  EUzabeth  held  m  dower  of  his  heritage.  By  p.s.  [29525.*] 

Jan.  28.  To  John  Foucher  escheator  in  Notynghamshire.  Order  to  cause 
Westminster.  William  son  and  heir  of  John  Bardolf  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage, 
four  bovates  of  laud  and  6  acres  of  meadow  in  Shelforde  held  by  John 
Byk  of  Shelforde  outlawed  for  felonj-  it  is  said  ;  as  on  20  March  in  the 
42nd  \'ear  of  his  reign,  on  the  finding  of  an  inquisition  taken  by  John 
de  Gresley  late  sheriff  of  XotjTigham,  that  three  messuages,  four 
bovates  of  land  and  6  acres  of  meadow  in  Shelforde  held  by  the  said 
John  Byk  have  been  in  the  king's  hand  a  year  and  a  day,  that  he  held 
of  John  Bardolf  one  of  the  three  messuages,  the  land  and  meadow 
aforesaid,  and  the  remaining  two  messuages  of  the  prior  of  Shelforde, 
all  being  then  in  the  king's  hand,  and  that  Richard  de  Leygham  had 
the  3'ear  and  a  day  and  the  Avaste  thereof  and  ought  to  answer  to  the 
king  for  the  same,  the  king  ordered  the  then  sheriff  to  keep  in  his 
hand  the  premises  held  of  John  Bardolf  tenant  in  chief  until  the 
lawful  age  of  the  said  William,  then  within  age  and  in  the  king's 
wardship,  and  to  cause  the  said  prior  to  have  seisin  of  the  residue  ; 
and  on  15  October  in  the  45th  year  of  the  reign  the  age  of  the  said 
William  was  proved,  and  the  king  took  his  homage  and  commanded 
livery  to  be  given  him  of  his  said  father's  lands. 

Feb.  5.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Notification  that  the  king  has  revoked 

Westminster,  his  letters  patent  of  protection  for  one  year  granted  to  John  Claront 
knight,  so  that  the  sheriffs  may  proceed  in  all  plaints  at  the  suit  of 
any  who  will  sue  the  said  John  before  them,  the  said  protection  not- 
withstanding ;  as  the  king  beUeved  that  he  would  have  sailed  to  Ireland 
on  the  king's  service  in  the  company  of  Robert  de  Assheton  justice  of 
Ireland,  and  the  said  letters  were  to  be  of  none  effect  if  he  should  not 
make  his  journey  thither,  or  after  should  depart  from  the  king's 
service  before  that  term  ;  and  the  said  John  sailed  not  thither,  but  is 
abiding  continually  in  the  city  of  London  upon  his  own  business. 


See  also  the  warrant  29529,  dated  5  February. 


488  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  39 — cont. 

Feb.  4.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk.     Order  to  cause  Margaret  Mareschal  lady 

Westminster,  of  Segrave  and  Weston  to  have  seisin  of  60  acres  of  land  and  pasture 
in  Fornesete,  Therston  and  Waketon  held  by  Robert  Bacoun  outlawed 
for  felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by 
the  sheriff,  that  the  premises  have  been  in  his  hand  a  j-ear  and  a  day, 
that  the  said  Robert  held  them  of  the  said  Margaret,  and  that  W'illiam 
Whappelode  had  the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste  thereof,  and  ought 
to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  same. 

Feb.  17.  To  John  Foucher  escheator  in  Derbyshire.     Order  to  cause  Hugh 

Westminster,  de  Strellay,  brother  and  heir  of  Pliilip  son  and  heir  of  William  de 
Strellay  tenant  in  chief,  to  have  seisin  of  his  said  brother's  lands  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  said  Hugh's 
nonage  ;  as  the  said  Hugh  has  proved  his  age  before  Thomas  de 
Grenhulle  late  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and 
fealty.  By  p.s.  [29553.] 

Feb.  20.  To  Benedict  de  Bodelsalle,  lieutenant  in  the  port  of  Dertmuth  of 
Westminster.  Philip  de  Courtenej^  admiral  of  the  fleet  towards  the  west.  Order 
to  view  certain  letters  of  the  king's  son  John  king  of  Castile  and  Leon 
and  of  the  king  of  Portugal  and  count  Don  Ferando,  and  if  assured 
that  Peter  de  Doyquina  master  of  a  ship  called  '  la  Made  Sterlyng ' 
and  other  shipmasters  of  the  town  of  Guetar}*,  being  liege  subjects  of 
the  king's  said  son,  and  other  the  merchants  of  the  said  ship,  are  of  the 
king's  friendship,  to  dearrest  them  without  delay,  restoring  to  them 
the  said  ship,  their  own  goods  and  merchandise  and  those  of  other 
the  king's  friends  therein  arrested,  subject  to  a  proviso  that  all 
goods  and  merchandise  of  the  king's  enemies  found  therein  shall  be 
kept  in  safe  custody  without  delivery,  and  shall  be  delivered  to  the 
owners  ;  order  also  to  keep  in  safe  custody  without  offering  them 
violence  certain  other  ships  of  Portugal,  Sebastian  Johan,  Martin 
Johan  and  Machico  masters,  which  for  the  same  cause  are  about  to 
pass  towards  the  parts  of  St.  Meloir  {de  Sancto  Maloro),  if  they  shall 
come  Avithin  the  districts  of  the  said  lieutenant,  to  deliver  to  the 
OAATiers  all  goods  and  merchandise  of  the  king's  enemies  therein  found, 
suffering  the  said  masters  with  the  said  ships  and  their  own  goods  and 
the  goods  of  other  the  king's  friends  to  go  their  way  without  let ; 
and  order  further  to  cause  two  ships  of  Portugal  lately  taken  by  the 
men  of  Dertmuth  and  Plymuth  and  brought  without  foreign  men  to 
the  port  of  Dertmuth  to  be  kept  in  sure  custody  until  by  his  council 
the  king  shall  be  informed  to  whom  the  same  ought  lawfully  to  pertain  ; 
as  the  king  has  received  a  complaint  of  the  said  Peter  and  the  ship- 
masters of  Guetary,  containing  that  after  the  death  of  Peter  king  of 
Spain  they  abode  continually  in  the  realm  of  Portugal  against  Henry 
the  Bastard  of  Spain  the  king's  adversary,  that  the  king's  said  son 
sent  letters  praying  them  to  come  forth  on  his  service,  that  in  obedience 
to  their  lord's  command,  in  order  the  better  to  come  on  that  service, 
they  freighted  the  said  ship  with  wines  and  divers  other  merchandise 
to  bring  to  the  parts  of  Flanders  and  St.  Meloir,  purposing  after  they 
had  dealt  with  their  merchandise  speedily  to  have  come  on  the  said 
service  and  there  have  faithfully  abode,  and  that  on  their  voyage  at  sea 
oflf  the  coast  of  Dertemiith  they  met  divers  ships  and  barges  of  England, 
and  trusting  in  the  security  of  the  king's  said  son  of  their  own  will 
touched  at  the  port  of  Dertmuth  with  them,  whereupon  they  and  the 


47    EDWARD    III.  489 


1373.  Membrane  39 — cont. 

said  merchants  having  come  to  that  port  were  arrested  and  are  there 
detained   under  arrest   with   tlic   said  ship,   goods  and   merchandise 
although  they  produced  the  letters  aforesaid,  praying  to  be  set  free 
from  arrest  and  to  have  restitution. 
[Fcedera.] 

March  13.  To  the  collectors  in  Kent  of  the  tenth  and  fifteenth  last  granted  to 
Westminster,  the  king  by  the  commons  of  England.  Order  to  sta}'  altogether  their 
demand  made  upon  the  master  and  brethren  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Mary 
Strode  for  payment  of  the  tenth  or  fifteenth  by  reason  of  their  lands, 
goods  or  chattels  in  Kent,  releasing  any  distress  made  upon  them  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  that  the  said  hospital  is  established  to 
maintain  all  the  infirm  poor  who  resort  thither  until  recovered  from 
their  infirmities,  and  to  find  and  support  divers  chantries  and  other 
works  of  charity,  and  the  king  has  compassion  upon  the  estate  thereof. 


31  EM  BRA  XE  38. 

Jan.  26.  To  the  constable  of  the  hundred  of  Xorthgrenhowe  co.  Xorffolk, 

Westminster,  and  all  and  singular  the  constables  of  the  towns  thereof.  Writ  of  aid, 
directing  the  said  constables  and  the  subcollectors  or  deputies  under 
pain  of  forfeiture,  in  consideration  of  the  urgency  of  the  case,  with  all 
speed  to  levy  and  deliver  to  the  collectors  from  time  to  time  according 
to  the  form  of  their  commission  all  sums  b}-  them  assessed  or  j^et  to 
be  assessed  upon  them  the  said  constables  and  upon  single  persons 
and  the  commons  of  the  towns  and  parishes  of  the  said  hundred  which 
are  not  yet  assessed  nor  fully  paid,  so  that  full  payment  thereof  be  made 
before  the  feast  of  St.  Gregory  next  at  latest,  and  to  be  aiding  the 
collectors  in  the  execution  of  the  premises,  knowing  moreover  that, 
if  thej'  be  not  obedient  to  this  present  command,  the  king  will  be 
wroth  with  them  as  with  men  who  rebel  against  him  ;  as  the  king  by 
letters  patent  appointed  Robert  de  Mortymer,  Ralph  de  Shelton, 
Roger  Gene}',  \\'illiam  Clere,  William  de  Norton  and  John  de 
Cressjnigham,  five,  four,  three  and  two  of  them  by  oversight  of  the 
earl  of  Suffolk  and  certain  others  appointed  for  the  purpose  in  NorfTolk 
to  assess  the  subsidy  of  llGs.  of  every  parish  in  the  realm  lateh'  granted 
to  the  king  by  the  lords  and  commons  of  England,  so  that  every 
parish  of  greater  value  throughout  the  county  should  be  aiding  and 
contribute  rateabl}'  to  another  of  less  value  without  severance  by 
hundreds  or  otherwise,  and  the  said  subsidy  being  so  assessed  parish 
by  parish  appointed  them  to  lev}'  and  collect  the  same  of  all  the  king's 
subjects,  namely  as  well  of  lords  as  of  other  secular  persons  of 
A\hatsoever  estate  or  condition  sparing  none,  and  to  make  answer  to 
the  king  for  it  at  set  terms  long  past  ;  and  whereas  in  NorfTolk  as  well 
by  default  and  negligence  of  the  collectors  as  by  rebellion  of  the  said 
constables  and  many  more  who  refused  to  pay  the  sums  reasonably 
assessed  upon  them,  great  part  of  that  subsidj',  amounting  to 
«  4,674/.   165.,    w-as  and  yet  is  in  arrear,   the  Icing  manj'  times  after 

straitly  commanded  the  collectors  without  delay  to  levy  of  all  his 
secular  subjects  sparing  none  all  sums  assessed  upon  parishes  and 
upon  single  persons,  and  to  cause  answer  to  be  made  to  the  king 
concerning  them,  whereof  little  or  nothing  has  been  done  ;  and  the 
king  is  informed  of  a  surety  that  payment  [has  not  been  made]  of 
the  sums   so  assessed   as  well  upon  the  said  constables  as  upon  the 


490  CALENDAR    OK    T'LOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  38 — cont. 

commons  of  the  said  hundred  and  of  the  towns  and  parishes  thereof, 
for  which  answer  ouglit  to  have  been  made  to  the  king  at  terms  long 
past,  not  only  by  default  of  the  collectors,  but  also  for  that  the  said 
constables  and  certain  others  of  the  hundred,  whom  the  collectors 
deputed  to  levy  and  collect  the  said  subsidy  under  them  in  that 
hundred,  despising  the  king's  commands,  have  taken  no  heed  to  levy 
•  the  sum  assessed  of  the  commons,  and  the  commons  have  taken  no 

heed  to  pay  the  same,  whereat  the  king  is  disturbed  and  moved  to 
anger  not  without  cause.  The  king  has  commanded  the  sheriff  from 
time  to  time  to  arrest  the  said  constables,  the  subcollectors  and  all 
other  of  the  said  commons  who  shall  be  found  contrary  and  rebellious 
herein,  and  to  bring  them  before  the  king  and  council  to  answer  for 
their  contempt.  By  C. 

Et  erat  patens. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  constable  of  the  hundred  of  Depwade  in  the  said  county, 

and  the  constables  of  the  towns  thereof. 
The  constable  of  the  hundred  of  Holt,  and  the  constables  of  the 

towns  thereof. 
The  constable  of  the  hundred  of  Dysse,  and  the  constables  of 

the  towns  thereof. 
The  constable  of  the  hundred  of  Humylyerde,  and  the  constables 

of  the  towns  thereof. 
The  constable   of   the  hundred   of  Galowebrothyrcros,   and   the 

constables  of  the  towns  thereof. 
The  constable  of  the  hundred  of  Smethedon,  and  the  constables 

of  the  towns  thereof. 
The  constable  of  the  hundred  of  Knaveryng,  and  the  constables 

of  the  towns  thereof. 
The  constable  of  the  hvmdred  of  HevTiestede,  and  the  constables 

of  the  to\Mis  thereof. 
The  constable  of  the  hundred  of  Lodene,  and  the  constables  of 

the  towns  thereof. 
The  constable  of  the  hundred  of  Eynesford,  and  the  constables 
of  the  towns  thereof. 

Feb.  5.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Ralph  de  Hynton,  who  is  too  infirm  to  exercise  that  office, 
wherefore  the  king  has  removed  him. 

Feb.  9.  To  William  de  Ergum  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  to  deliver  to 

Westminster.  John  Poucher  the  moietj^  of  the  manor  of  Drax  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  bj^  the  death  of  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  de  Fulnetby, 
together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Elizabeth  at  her 
death  held  the  said  moiety  in  chief  bj^  homage  and  fealty  and  by  the 
service  of  rendering  to  the  king  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  45.  2d.  a 
year  of  blanch  farm,  being  thereof  jointly  enfeoffed  with  her  said 
husband  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  by  gift  of  Ralph  de 
Tresk,  John  de  Fulnetby  and  Richard  de  Beseby  made  with  the  king's 
licence,  with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  right  heirs  of 
the  said  Thomas,  and  that  in  the  life  time  of  the  said  Elizabeth,  who 
overlived  her  said  husband,  John  Fulnetby  (yet  living)  cousin  and 
heir  of  the  said  Thomas,  to  whom  belonged  the  reversion  of  the  said 


47    EDWARD    III. 


491 


1373. 


Membrane.  38 — cont. 


moiety  for  that  the  said  Thomas  and  Elizabeth  died  without  issue, 
\\ith  the  king's  Hccnce  gave  the  reversion  thereof  with  release  and 
quitclaim  to  the  said  John  Poucher  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  his 
homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [20531. j 

To  Ralph  de  Thresk  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Like  order  in 
regard  to  a  moiet}'  of  the  manor  of  VVestrasen  held  b}*  the  said  Elizabeth 
in  chief  by  knight  service.  By  p.s.  (the  same  writ). 


Feb.  8.  To  William  Ergum  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  to  remove  the 

Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  yearly  rent  of  Ss.  and 
three  hens  charged  upon  a  tenement  in  Walmegate  in  the  city  of 
York  late  of  John  de  Hoperton  of  York  skinner,  delivering  to  the 
master  and  brethren  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Nicholas  by  York  any 
issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  upon  the  finding  of  an  inquisition, 
taken  at  the  king's  command  b\'  John  de  Scotherskelf  late  escheator, 
that  the  said  John  held  the  premises  in  fee  to  him  and  his  heirs,  that 
he  was  a  bastard,  that  he  died  thereof  seised  without  a  w  ill  and  without 
making  an  estate  therein  to  any  man,  and  that  the  same  was  held 
of  the  king  in  burgage  as  is  all  the  said  cityj  ;  and  after  at  suit  of  the 
said  master  and  brethren,  praying  that  the  said  rent  might  be  paid 
them  as  the  premises  were  therewith  charged  to  them  long  before  the 
same  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  the  king  ordered  Thomas  de 
Musgrave  late  escheator  to  make  inquisition  by  true  men  of  the 
county  ^^  hether  the  premises  were  charged  with  any  yearly  rents  or 
no,  and  if  so  with  what  rents,  by  whom  and  when,  and  to  whom 
payable  ;  and  by  inquisition  thereupon  taken  it  is  found  that  in 
14  Henry  III  the  same  was  by  Herbert  de  Leycestre  then  tenant  in 
fee  charged  in  85.  a  year  to  be  paid  to  the  master  and  brethren  of  the 
said  hospital  and  to  their  successors  at  Martinmas  and  Whitsuntide, 
and  in  three  hens  payable  at  Christmas. 

Feb.  11.  To  Adam  atte  More  escheator  in  Somerset.  Order  to  deliver  to 
Westminster.  William  Boneville  a  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Stapelton  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  b}'  the  death  of  Sibyl  who  was  wife  of  Robert 
•  Sejnitclere,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  bj'  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Sibyl 
at  her  death  held  that  third  part  in  dower  by  assignment  of  her  said 
husband,  the  reversion  bj'  gift  of  Richard  Lilleshull  parson  of  Uffewille 
and  Robert  Wighthull  made  with  the  king's  licence  belonging  to 
Richard  Seyntclere  and  Margaret  his  wife  (both  deceased)  and  to  the 
heirs  of  their  bodies,  with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  said 
William  and  his  heirs,  that  the  said  Richard  and  Margaret  died 
without  issue,  and  that  the  said  third  part  is  held  in  chief  by  knight 
service  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  the  homage  and  fealtv  of  the  said 
William.  By  p.s.  [29543.] 

Feb.  13.  To  John  de  Cavendissh  and  Thomas  de  Ingelby  justices  appointed 
Westminster,  to  hold  pleas  before  the  king.  Order  by  writ  of  nisi  prius  to  cause 
the  inquisition  whereupon  John  de  Lyndale  and  John  de  Cave  of 
IVIidelton  have  put  themselves,  being  indicted  before  the  king  for 
divers  confederacies  and  extortions,  to  be  taken  before  them  the  said 
justices  or  one  of  them,  before  one  of  the  justices  of  the  Bench,  or 
before  the  justices  of  assize. 


492  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  37. 

Feb.  25.  To  Roger  Keterych  escheator  in  Essex.  Order  to  deliver  in  dower 
Westminster,  to  Maud  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  de  \'eer  earl  of  Oxford  tenant  in 
chief  such  as  are  in  his  bailiwick  of  the  knights'  fees  and  parts  of 
fees  following  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  said  earl's  death, 
which  the  king  has  assigned  to  her,  namely  one  knight's  fee  in 
Hengham  Sibille  held  by  John  de  Graveshale  and  extended  at  100s. 
a  j'ear,  one  knight's  fee  in  Mapiltrestede  held  by  Dame  de  Huntercombe 
at  lOO.s.,  three  quarters  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Hengham  Sibille  and 
Toppesfeld  held  by  John  de  Gildesburgh  at  755.,  one  knight's  fee 
in  Yerdele  held  by  John  Benge  and  the  heirs  of  John  de  Yerdele  at 
100s.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Thunderle  held  by  the  abbot  of  Walden  and 
William  Dale  at  lOOs.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Aldham  and  Feryngg'  held 
by  Robert  de  Teye  at  lOOs.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in 
Pebeners.sh  held  by  John  fitz  Rauf  at  25s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  Hersham  held  b3'  Peter  de  T3e  at  50s.,  the  fourth  part  of  one 
knight's  fee  in  Bumpstede  held  by  the  heir  of  Walter  son  of  Alan 
at  50s.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Raynes  held  by  Thomas  Xaillynghurst,  the 
prior  of  Dunmawe  and  \Villiam  atte  Park  at  100s.,  one  knight's  fee 
and  a  half  in  Fynchyngfeld  held  b}^  Simon  de  Sneterton  [at]  11.  10s., 
one  knight's  fee  in  Wylynghale  held  by  Clement  Spyce  at  lOOs.,  one 
knight's  fee  in  Fj'nchj-ngfeld  held  by  the  heir  of  Richard  Clovil  at 
100s.,  two  knights'  fees  in  Hempstede  held  by  William  de  Langham 
knight  at  10/.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Br^^htlyngesbrygge 
held  by  Aubrey  de  Veer  at  25s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in 
Radewynter  held  by  William  Phip  at  505.,  one  knight's  fee  in 
Ramesay  held  by  Walter  de  Reydon  at  100s.,  the  fourth  part  of  one 
knight's  fee  in  Gosfeld  held  by  Richard  Lyons  at  255.,  the  fourth 
part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Gosfeld  held  by  John  Burghcher  knight  at 
25s.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Copwold  held  by  W^illiam 
Chej'ne  at  50s.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Feryng'  held  by  Humphrey  de 
Perstede  at  100s.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Podeshethe  held  by  Thomas 
Walkefare  knight  at  100s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in 
Mapiltrestede  held  by  Katherine  Baroune  and  Nicholas  Dayvenant 
at  50s.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Hengham  Sibille  held 
by  Thomas  de  Sliardelowe  knight  at  25s.,  the  third  part  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  Hengham  Sibille  held  by  John  Clerk  at  33s.  3(/.,  the  moiety  of 
one  knight's  fee  in  Chiche  held  by  Thomas  Sej'^ntcler  knight  at  50s., 
one  knight's  fee  in  Bartelesden  held  by  the  heirs  of  Robert  Travers 
at  100s.,  one  knight's  fee  and  a  half  in  Langdon  held  by  Humphrey 
de  W^alden  knight  at  50s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Fynchyng- 
feld held  by  the  heirs  of  William  Crocheman  at  50s.,  the  moiety  of  one 
knight's  fee  in  Bartelesden  in  the  said  county  held  by  the  heirs  of 
Thomas  Gobyoun  at  50s.,  two  knights'  fees  in  Burgate  held  by  William 
de  Burgate  at  10/.,  one  knight's  fee  and  a  half  in  Waldynfeld  held 
by  Thomas  Boteler  at  150s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Little 
Waldyngfeld  held  by  John  Cheverston  at  50s.,  the  moiety  of  one 
knight's  fee  in  Rede  held  by  the  heirs  of  Thomas  de  Saxham  at  50s., 
the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  the  same  town  held  by  the  heirs  of 
Nicholas  Pycard  at  50s.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Lyveremere  held  by  John 
Thelnetham  at  100s.,  one  knight's  fee  in  the  same  town  held  by  Robert 
{sic)  Lyveremere  at  100s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Somerton 
held  by  John  de  Burgh  at  50s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in 
Dounham  held  by  John  Shardelowe  at  50s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  the  same  town  held  by  Nicholas  de  Mersay  at  50s.,  the  moiety 
of  one  knight's  fee  in  Trutonethorp  held  by  John  atte  Castell  at  505., 


47    EDWARD    III.  493 


1373.  Membrane  31—cont. 

two  knights'  fees  at  Denham  co.  Suffolk  held  by  the  heirs  of  John  de 
Say  at  lOZ.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Hildersham  held  by  Robert  Park's  and 
his  parceners  at  60s.,  one  knight's  fee  and  a  half  in  Little  Wilberham 
held  by  William  Phelip  and  his  parceners  at  1005.,  the  moiety  of  one 
knight's  fee  in  Horsethe  held  by  John  de  Clynton  knight  at  .^O-s..  the 
fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Westhoo  b}'  Campes  held  by  Elizabeth 
de  Sauston  at  155..  one  knight's  fee  and  a  half  in  'Landbech  held  by 
John  Bray  at  6/.,  two  knights'  fees  in  Wikhani  held  by  Alan  Eyot 
and  William  Wolf  at  IOO5.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Borewell  held  by 
Philip  Chaumberlayn  at  6/.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Landwath  held 
by  John  Hastynges  at  IOO5.,  and  two  knights'  fees  in  W^ykham 
CO.  Cantebrigge  held  by  Alan  Eyot  and  William  Wolf  and  extended 
at  IOO5.  a  year. 

To  John  de  Weston  escheator  in  Suffolk.  Order  to  deliver  in  dower 
to  the  said  Maud  two  knights'  fees  in  Burgate  held  by  William  de 
Burgate  and  extended  at  lOl.  a  year,  one  knight's  fee  and  a  half  in 
Waldyngfeld  held  by  Thomas  Boteler  at  1505.,  the  moiety  of  one 
knight's  fee  in  Little  Waldynfeld  held  by  John  Cheverston  at  505., 
the  moiet}^  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Rede  held  by  the  heirs  of  Thomas  de 
Saxham  at  505.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  the  said  town  held 
by  the  heirs  of  Nicholas  Pykard  at  505.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Lyveremere 
held  b}'  John  Thelnetham  at  IOO5.,  one  knight's  fee  in  the  same  town 
held  by  Richard  (sic)  Lyveremere  at  IOO5.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  Somerton  held  bv  John  de  Burgh  at  505.,  the  moiety  of  one 
knight's  fee  in  Dounham  held  by  John  Shardelowe  at  505.,  the  moiety 
of  one  knight's  fee  in  the  said  to\\'n  held  by  Nicholas  de  JMersay  at  505., 
the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Trutonethorp  held  by  John  atte 
Castell  at  505.,  and  two  knights'  fees  in  Denham  held  by  the  heirs  of 
John  de  Say  extended  at  10/.  a  j^ear,  which  among  other  knights'  fees 
and  parts  of  fees  the  king  has  assigned  to  her. 

To  John  de  Broghton  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire.  Like  order  to 
deliver  in  dower  to  the  said  Maud  one  knight's  fee  in  Hildersham  held 
by  Robert  Parys  and  his  parceners  and  extended  at  6O5.  a  3-ear,  one 
knight's  fee  and  a  half  in  Little  Wilberham  held  by  William  Phelip 
and  his  parceners  at  IOO5.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Horsethe 
held  by  John  de  Clynton  knight  at  505.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  Westhoo  by  Campes  held  by  Elizabeth  de  Sauston  at  155.,  one 
knight's  fee  and  a  half  in  Landbech  held  by  John  Bray  at  6/.,  two 
knights'  fees  in  Wykham  held  by  Alan  Eyot  and  William  Wolf  at  IOO5., 
one  knight's  fee  in  Borewelle  held  by  Philip  Chaumberlayn  at  6/., 
one  knight's  fee  in  Landwath  held  by  John  Hastynges  at  IOO5.,  and 
two  knights'  fees  at  Wykham  held  bj'  Alan  Eyot  and  William  Wolf 
and  extended  at  IOO5.  a  year. 

To  Roger  Keterj'ch  escheator  in  Essex.  Order  to  deliver  in 
dower  to  the  said  Maud  such  as  are  in  his  bailiwick  of  the  advowsons 
of  churches  and  priories  following,  which  the  king  has  assigned  to  her 
of  the  advowsons  of  Thomas  de  Veer  earl  of  Oxford,  namely  the 
advowson  of  Hengham  priory  extended  at  10  marks  a  vear,  of  Colne 
priory  in  the  said  county  at  20/.,  of  Lavenham  chiirch  at  28  marks, 
and  of  Aldham  church  co.  Suffolk  at  10/.  135.  4c/.  a  year. 


494  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  37 — cont. 

To  John  de  Weston  escheator  in  Suffolk.  Order  to  deliver  in  dower 
to  the  said  Maud  the  advowsons  of  Lavenham  church  extended  at 
28  marks  and  Aldham  church  at  10/.  135.  4rf.,  which  among  others 
the  king  has  assigned  to  her. 

March  21.  To  Helmj^ng  Leget  constable  of  Wyndesore  castle,  or  to  his 
Westminster,  lieutenant  there.  Order  to  pay  to  John  de  Kyngeston,  so  long  as  he 
shall  stand  in  the  office  of  keeper  of  Kenyngton  park  by  Kyngeston, 
such  wages  and  fees  as  John  de  Gayton  took  in  his  life  time,  taking 
his  acquittance  ;  as  on  1  October  in  the  4oth  year  of  his  reign  by 
letters  patent  the  king  of  his  favour  granted  to  the  said  John  de 
Kyngeston  for  his  good  service  the  keeping  of  the  said  park  for  life 
during  good  behaviour,  taking  the  same  wages,  fees  and  profits  as 
John  de  Gayton  took  in  his  life  time. 
Et  erat  falens. 

Membrane  36. 

Feb.  12.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Hertford  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Robert  fitz  Geffrey,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

March  8.  To  John  de  Broghton  escheator  in  Bedfordshire  and  Bukinghamshire. 
Westminster.  Order  to  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the 
lands,  goods  and  chattels  which  were  of  Edmund  Mordant,  delivering 
up  any  issues  thereof  taken  since  his  death  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisitions,  taken  as  well  [before]  Thomas  Sewale  late  escheator  as 
before  William  Mordant  one  of  the  coroners  in  [Bedfordshire],  that 
the  said  Edmund  being  mad  on  Sunday  before  St.  Simon  and  St.  Jude 
last  in  his  madness  slew  Ellen  his  wife,  and  after  on  the  same  daj^  being 
in  his  madness  in  a  pond  in  his  manor  of  Turvey  drowned  himself, 
wherefore  his  lands,  goods  and  chattels  may  not  be  called  forfeit. 
The  like  to  Roger  Keterich  escheator  in  Hertfordshire. 

March  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  Suffolk.  Order  to  cause  Roger  Gosewolde  to  have 
W^estminster.  seisin  of  100  acres  of  land,  8  acres  of  meadow,  12  acres  of  pasture, 
2  acres  of  wood  and  10s.  of  rent  in  Brandeston  held  by  Adam  de 
Brandeston  of  GippeAA  ic  outlawed  for  felonj^  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  bv  the  sheriff,  that  the  premises  have 
been  in  his  hand  a  year  and  a  day  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  that  the 
said  Adam  held  them  of  the  said  Roger,  and  that  by  the  king's  grant 
John  Horold  had  the  year  and  a  day,  and  John  de  Rokwode  late 
escheator  the  waste  thereof,  and  ought  to  answer  to  the  king  for 
the  same. 

March  9.  To  Roger  de  Keterych  escheator  in  Essex.  Order  to  remove  the 
Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage,  60  acres  of 
land  and  20  acres  of  marsh  in  Barlj-ng,  the  manors  of  Great  Wakerj^ng, 
Little  Waker;yTig,  Northorp  and  Rammesden  Belhous  and  the 
advoAvson  of  a  chapel  there,  except  a  third  part  of  two  thirds  of  the 
manors  of  Great  and  Little  Wakeryng  held  in  dower  b}'  Alice  de 
Neville  after  the  death  of  John  de  Neville  knight  her  husband,  all 
Avhich  (with  that  exception)  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the 
death  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford  and  Essex,  delivering 
up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  bj'  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  earl  at  his  death  held  the  premises, 


47    EDWARD    III. 


495 


1373. 


Membrane  36 — cont. 


with  that  exception,  in  riglit  of  Joan  late  his  wife,  who  is  yet  Hving, 
by  gift  of  Ralph  8pigurnell  knight,  Philip  Melreth  clerk,  Hugh 
Berewyk  and  Thomas  VVynkfeld  made  with  the  king's  licence  to  the 
said  Joan  for  life,  with  remainder  thereof  and  with  reversion  of  the 
said  third  part  (when  it  shall  fall  in)  to  the  said  earl  for  life,  remainder 
to  the  heirs  of  her  body  by  him  begotten,  and  that  the  manor  of  Great 
Wakeryng  is  held  in  chief  by  knight  service,  the.  manors  of  Little 
Wakeryng  and  Northorp  by  knight  service  of  the  king  as  of  the  honour 
of  Reylegh,  the  said  messuage,  land  and  marsh,  the  said  manor  of 
Rammesden  and  advowson  of  others  than  the  king  ;  and  the  king  has 
taken  the  said  Joan's  fealty. 

March  16.        To  the  warden  of  the  Flete  prison.     Order  to  set  free  John  de  Foxley 

Wostininstor.  of  Norwich  imprisoned  for  303/.  current  in  demand  against  him  at  the 

exchequer  of  his  farm  of  the  petty  custom  in  the  port  of    Great 

Jernemuth  ;   as  he  has  found  in  chancery  security  for  payment  thereof 

before  the  month  of  Easter  next. 


Feb.  12.  To  Robert  de  Assheton  justiciary  of  Ireland.  Order,  upon  the 
Westminster,  petition  of  the  prior  of  Lanthony  by  Gloucestre,  if  he  or  a  certain 
canon  his  fellow  and  proctor  in  Ireland  shall  henceforward  trul}^  pay 
tenths  and  other  subsidies  for  the  defence  of  Ireland,  and  shall  find 
the  other  charges  whatsoever  affecting  the  said  prior  by  reason  of 
his  lands  and  possessions  there  as  do  other  men  of  religion  who  abide 
continualh'  in  Ireland,  to  suffer  him  without  let  from  the  time  of  the 
ordinance  hereinafter  mentioned  and  henceforward  by  himself  or  his 
said  proctor  to  take  and  send  or  carry  to  the  said  priory  in  England 
for  his  maintenance  and  the  maintenance  of  the  convent  all  issues  and 
profits  of  his  said  possessions  over  and  above  the  said  charges  and 
subsidies,  freely  disposing  thereof  as  he  shall  please  and  making  his 
advantage  of  the  same  as  before  the  ordinance  he  used  to  do,  notwith- 
standing his  absence  from  Ireland  or  the  said  ordinance,  and  order 
to  restore  without  delay  any  issues  by  him  levied  or  taken  for  that 
cause  of  the  prior's  lands  and  possessions  over  and  above  the  charges 
aforesaid  ;  as  the  said  petition  shews  that  the  prior  finds  a  canon  his 
proctor  continually  residing  at  his  house  of  Deuelek  co.  Meath  upon 
his  said  lands  and  possessions  temporal  and  spiritual  and  upon  the 
defence  and  safetj^  of  Ireland,  and  has  so  done  from  the  time  of  the 
ordinance,  lately  made  by  the  king  and  council,  that  every  the  lords 
and  others  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition  who  have  lands  in 
Ireland  should  draw  thither  and  there  abide  for  the  defence  of  Ireland, 
or  should  send  thither  other  men  sufficient  in  their  stead,  shewing  that 
his  said  proctor  has  paid  tenths  and  other  subsidies  granted  for  the 
defence  of  Ireland,  and  has  from  the  time  of  the  said  ordinance  borne 
other  the  charges  whatsoever  affecting  the  said  prior  by  reason  of  his 
said  lands  and  possessions,  as  do  other  the  men  of  religion  who  dwell 
continually  in  Ireland,  praying  licence  to  bring  to  England  the 
residue  of  the  issues  and  profits  thereof. 

The  like  to  the  treasurer  and  to  the  barons  of   the  exchequer   of 
Ireland. 

Membrane  35. 

March  29.        To  Roger  Keterich  escheator  in  Essex.     Order  to  deliver  in  dower  to 

Westminster.  Joan  Avho  was  wife  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford  and  Essex 

tenant  in  chief  the  manors  of  Writele,  Hatfeld  Regis  with  half  the 


496  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  35 — cont. 

hundred  of  Herlawe,  Great  Badewe,  Fobbyng,  Depeden,  Walden, 
Quenden  and  a  tliird  part  of  the  manor  of  Halyngbury  in  his  baihvvick 
with  the  charges  laid  upon  the  said  tliird  part,  Halyngbury  park  ex- 
cepted, provided  that  she  shall  in  name  of  her  dower  be  contented  of  the 
value  of  a  third  part  of  the  said  park  ;  as  of  his  own  will  and  particular 
knowledge, with  the  assent  of  Thomas  Maundeville,  John  de  Bampton  and 
Ivo  Sandhurst  her  attorneys,  the  king  has  assigned  the  same  to  her, 
having  taken  of  her  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  his 
licence,  assigning  also  to  her  Kymbalton  castle  co.  Huntingdon  and  the 
appurtenances  thereof,  the  manor  of  Amondesham  and  a  third  part 
of  the  manor  of  Cryndon  co.  Bukingham,  a  tenement  called  Blaunch- 
appelton,  65.  Sd.  of  rent  issuing  from  a  tenement  of  Richard  Cot3'ngham 
in  the  parish  of  St.  Olave  and  I6d.  of  rent  issuing  from  a  tenement  of 
John  atte  Walle  '  cappere  '  in  London,  the  manor  of  Enefeld  co. 
Middlesex,  the  manors  of  Wyvelesford,  Wokeseye,  Manyngford, 
Stratton,  Sende  co.  Wiltesir,  Uplambourne  and  Edwj-neston  co. 
Berkes,  and  Walton  co.  Surrey,  as  her  dower  of  all  her  husband's 
castles,  manors,  lands  etc.  in  England  except  the  farm  and  manor  of  the 
town  of  Wycombe,  the  manors  of  Haselo,  Peryton  and  Hcnton  which 
Edward  prince  of  Wales  and  duke  of  Cornwall  avers  to  be  held  of  him, 
and  that  therefore  the  wardship  thereof  ought  to  pertain  to  him,  and 
except  the  castle  and  manor  of  Okham,  the  shrievalry  of  Roteland, 
and  a  farm  of  206/.  2s.  5hd.  a  year  which  the  earl  used  to  take  by  the 
hands  of  the  sheriffs  of  London,  saving  to  the  said  Joan  her  action 
for  dower  of  the  castle,  manors  and  farms  so  excepted  if  by  the  king 
or  any  other  she  ought  thereof  to  be  dowered. 

To  John  de  Broghton  escheator  in  Huntingdonshire  and  Bukingham- 
shire.  Order  to  deliver  in  dower  to  the  said  Joan  Kymbalton  castle, 
the  manor  of  Amondesham  and  a  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Cryndon 
in  his  bailiwick  which,  among  other  castles,  manors  and  lands  of  her 
husband,  the  king  has  assigned  to  her. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

John  Pyel  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator  therein, 
concerning  a  tenement  called  Blaunchappelton,  6s.  8c?.  of  rent 
issuing  from  a  tenement  of  Richard  Cotyngham  in  the  parish 
of  St.  Olave,  and  16d.  of  rent  issuing  from  a  tenement  of  John 
atte  Walle  '  cappere.' 
John  Froille  escheator  in  Wiltesir  and  Berkes,  concerning  the 
manors  of  Wyvelesford,  Wokeseye,  Manyngford,  Stratton, 
Sende,  Uplambourne  and  Edwyneston. 
Nicholas  Heryng  escheator  in  Surre^^  and  Middlesex,  concerning 
the  manors  of  Walton  and  Enefeld. 

April  2.  To  the  collectors  of  customs,  and  the  searcher  of  forfeitures  in  the 

Westminster,  port  of  Suthampton.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  Ferrandes 
knight,  to  suffer  him  after  paj^ment  of  the  ancient  customs  there- 
upon due  without  payment  of  other  custom  or  subsidy  to  the  king's 
use  to  lade  in  that  port  and  take  thence  without  let  whither  he  will  the 
wines  which  he  caused  to  be  laded  at  Portynghale  in  a  ship  of  Martin 
de  Langueray  and  brought  to  England  for  his  own  sustenance  there, 
disposing  thereof  freely  as  he  will,  any  ordinances  or  commands  to 
the  contrary  notwithstanding  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  with  licence 
of  the  said  collectors  and  searcher  he  unladed  the  same  in  that  port, 


47    EDWARD    III.  497 


1373.  Membrane  35 — cont. 

but  that  the  representative  of  the  king's  butler  there  caused  them  to 
be  arrested  as  forfeit  to  the  king  and  is  yet  keeping  them  under  arrest, 
pretending  that  contrary  to  the  statute  the  said  Jolm  unladed  them 
in  the  said  port  and  exposed  them  for  sale  before  they  were  gauged 
by  the  king's  ganger  tiiere  ;  and  the  king  takes  note  that  the  said 
John  is  a  true  man  from  parts  which  are  of  the  king's  friendship,  that 
he  is  altogether  ignorant  of  the  laws  and  customs. concerning  wines 
brought  within  the  realm,  and  that  his  wines  were  unladed  with  the 
licence  of  the  said  collectors  and  searcher. 

March  10.  To  Hugh  de  Segrave  knight,  Griffin  ap  Eynon,  William  Wyriot, 
Westminster.  John  Lassels,  Robert  Yokes,  Thomas  Coyt  and  Walter  Coj't,  and  to 
every  of  them.  Order,  for  particular  causes,  not  to  meddle  in  the 
parts  of  Wales  ^vhich  are  out  of  the  king's  hands  within  the  lordships 
of  Edward  prince  of  Wales  or  of  other  lords  b}'  colour  of  the  king's 
letters  patent  appointing  them,  jointly  and  severally,  to  take  and 
arrest  by  his  body  William  de  Foxele  a  monk  professed  of  Certeseye 
abbey  of  the  order  of  St.  Benedict  wheresoever  found  in  England, 
Wales  or  Ireland,  and  to  deliver  him  to  the  abbot  of  Certeseye  or  to 
his  attorney  for  chastisement  according  to  the  rule  of  that  order,  but 
the  said  letters  patent  shall  hold  good  in  regard  to  lordships  in  Wales 
which  are  in  the  king's  own  hands  and  to  other  parts  of  England  and 
Ireland  therein  specified  ;  as  the  same  were  issued  at  the  request  of 
the  said  abbot  [who]  signified  to  the  king  that  contrary  to  a  special 
precept  and  proliibition  the  said  monk,  despising  his  profession,  was 
wandering  and  running  to  and  fro  from  country  to  country  through 
divers  parts  of  England,  Wales  and  Ireland,  to  the  peril  of  his  soul 
and  the  scandal  of  the  order. 

March  26.        Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Northumberland  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be 
Westminster,  elected  instead  of  John  de  Walyngton,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 
Like  order  concerning  John  del  Strothere  of  BoUesdon. 
Like  order  concerning  Thomas  de  Esh^ngton. 

April  6.  To  the  ma3'or,  the  customer  and  the  controller  of  Quenesburgh. 

Westminster.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  atte  Bussh  of  London,  by  mainprise 
of  the  said  John  and  of  Bartholomew  Rutyng  of  London,  to  suffer 
him  without  let  and  without  payment  of  custom  or  subsidy  to  the 
king's  use  to  lade  in  a  certain  boat  there  906  woolfells  by  the  lesser 
hundred  which  are  in  that  port,  and  to  bring  them  b^''  the  river 
Thames  to  the  staple  of  Westminster  ;  as  he  has  prayed  licence  so 
to  do,  and  the  king  has  granted  licence  because  he  and  the  said 
Bartholomew,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under 
a  pain  of  '201.  that  the  said  fells  shall  be  brought  to  the  staple  to  be 
truly  cocketed  and  customed,  and  shall  not  put  to  sea  before  coming 
thither  and  being  there  unladed,  and  that  he  shall  bring  in  chancery 
letters  of  the  mayor  of  the  staple  \vitnessing  that  the  same  were  there 
unladed. 

Membrane  34. 

Feb.  28.  To  the  sheriff  of  Leycestre.     Order,  as  the  king  has  learned  that 

Westminster,  his  gaol  of  Leycestre  and  his  hall  thereto  annexed  are  broken  and 

ruinous,  to  make  inquisition  touching  the  matter,  and  to  distrain  all 

OB  32 


498 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  34 — cont. 

those  whom  he  shall  find  to  be  lawfully  bound  to  the  making  and  repair 
thereof  to  make,  repair  and  uphold  the  same,  as  used  to  be  done  in 
times  past,  that  the  king  be  not  a  second  time  vexed  for  lack  of  such 
repair. 

Feb.  28.  To  the  warden  of  the  Flete  prison.     Order  to  set  free  Nicholas  Hardy, 

Westminster,  if  imprisoned  for  25/.  wherein  he  is  bound  to  the  king  and  for  no  other 
cause  ;  as  the  king  has  granted  him  that  100s.  a  year,  which  by  the 
king's  grant  he  takes  for  life  at  the  exchequer,  may  year  by  year  be 
deducted  from  the  said  sum,  and  that  payment  thereof  shall  cease 
until  b\'  such  deduction  his  debt  be  fully  contented. 

March  18.  To  Thomas  de  Reynes,  lieutenant  of  William  de  Latymere  con- 
Westminster,  stable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports.  Order  to 
cause  all  arrears  of  the  subsidy  of  50,00^^  last  granted  to  the  king 
by  the  commons  of  England  rateably  falling  upon  all  and  singular 
the  parishes  of  the  liberty  of  the  Cinque  Ports  to  be  levied  without 
delay,  so  as  to  have  the  monej'^  at  the  exchequer  on  the  morrow  of 
the  close  of  Easter  next,  there  to  be  delivered  to  the  treasurer  for  the 
king's  use,  saving  alwaj^s  in  all  other  things  the  liberty  of  the  men  and 
barons  of  the  said  ports. 

March  28.  To  Roger  Keterich  escheator  in  Hertfordshire.  Order  to  take  of 
Westminster.  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  Edward  de  Kendale  knight  tenant  in  chief 
an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  in 
presence  of  Edward  son  and  heir  of  the  said  Edward,  if  being  warned 
he  will  attend,  to  assign  her  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death,  sending  the  assignment  to  be 
enrolled  in  chancery. 

To  John  Froille  escheator  in  the  county  of  Suthampton.  Like 
order  to  assign  dower  to  the  said  Elizabeth,  whose  fealty  the  king  has 
caused  to  be  taken  by  Roger  Keterich  that  she  will  not  marry  etc. 

The  like  to  John  Broghton  escheator  in  Bedfordshire. 

The  like  to  John  Pyel  maj'or  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator 
therein. 

May  10.  To  John  Froille  escheator  in   Oxfordshire  and  Berkshire.     Order 

Westminster,  to  suffer  the  prior  and  canons  of  Oseneye  during  the  present  vacancy 
to  have  the  keeping  of  the  abbey  and  of  the  temporalities  thereof  with 
all  property  and  goods  thereto  belongmg,  and  the  free  disposal  of  the 
said  temporalities,  property  and  goods  as  shall  seem  good  to  them, 
according  to  the  king's  letters  patent,  not  meddling  Avith  the  keeping 
of  the  same  b}-  reason  of  the  said  vacancy,  nor  in  aught  troubling 
or  grieving  the  prior  and  canons,  and  restoring  to  them  any  levy  he 
has  made,  saving  to  the  king  the  knights'  fees  and  advoAvsons  of 
churches,  wards,  reliefs  and  escheats  to  the  abbej'  belonging  during 
the  vacancy,  and  saving  to  him  50  marks,  and  the  issues  of  any  lands 
purchased  by  the  late  abbot  and  the  canons  since  14  February  in  the 
29th  year  of  the  reign  ;  as  of  his  compassion  for  the  estate  of  the  said 
abbey,  which  is  of  the  foundation  of  his  forefathers  and  of  his  patronage 
and  is  oppressed  by  divers  adversities,  willing  to  make  provision  for 
the  relief  thereof,  on  that  date  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  that, 
.?o  soon  as  the  abbey  should  be  void  by  the  death,  cession,  resignation 


47    EDWARD    III. 


499 


1373. 


Membrane  34 — cont. 


or  deposition  of  Tliomas  then  abbot,  the  prior  and  canons  should  have 
the  keeping  of  the  abbey  etc.  as  aforesaid,  rendering  at  the  exchequer 
50  marks  for  the  whole  vacancy,  so  that  no  escheator  or  other  minister 
of  the  king  whatsoever  should  meddle  therein,  saving  to  the  king  the 
knights'  fees  etc.  which  should  fall  in  at  the  time  of  such  vacancy  ;  and 
the  abbey  is  now  void  b}'  the  death  of  Thomas  late  abbot  it  is  said. 
The  like  to  the  following  ; 

John  de  Broghton  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire. 

John  ap  Rees  escheator  in  Gloucestershire. 

John  de  Perton  escheator  in  Staffordshire. 

Membrane  33. 

April  27.  To  Nicholas  Heryiig  escheator  in  Middlesex.  Order  to  deliver  to 
Westminster.  John  de  Keuermond  the  office  of  usher  of  the  exchequer  with  the 
appurtenances,  except  the  offices  of  usher  of  the  Common  Bench, 
marshals,  ushers,  criers  and  barriers  in  singular  the  eyres  of  justices 
in  eyre  within  the  realm,  except  5(1.  a  day  in  that  office  to  be  taken 
in  the  receipt  of  the  exchequer  while  the  exchequer  is  open,  and  except 
three  fourths  of  the  office  of  criers  in  the  Common  Bench,  which  all  are 
parcel  of  the  aforesaid  office  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
by  the  escheator  taken  at  the  king's  command,  that  by  grants  of 
Christiana  daughter  of  William  Gaunt  of  Bymbroke,  of  John  de 
Croxton  and  Maud  his  wife,  and  of  Beatrice  daughter  of  the  said 
William,  made  with  the  king's  licence,  John  Bray  at  his  death 
held  in  chief  for  his  life  the  said  office  and  its  appurtenances,  with 
the  exceptions  aforesaid,  the  reversion  thereof  belonging  to  the  said 
John  de  Keuermond  and  to  his  heirs  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  the 
homage  of  John  de  Keuermond  for  the  same.  By  p.s.  [29647.] 

April  28.         Mandate  to  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  to  admit 
Westminster.  John  de  Keuermond  to  the  said  office,  suffering  him  to  exercise  the 
same. 


April  27.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  New  Sarum.  Order  to  deliver  by 
Westminster,  indenture  Thomas  Baker,  otherwise  called  William  Rameseye,  other- 
wise John  Rob^Ti,  to  John  de  Salesbury  the  king's  serjeant  at  arms 
and  William  Prentys,  to  be  brought  to  Neugate  gaol  and  there  kept 
in  safe  custody  until  delivered  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  the 
realm  ;  as  John  Dandj'^  of  Wales  the  king's  prover,  being  in  the  said 
gaol,  has  appealed  the  said  Thomas  before  the  sheriffs  or  coroners  of 
the  city  of  London  of  certain  felonies  by  them  together  committed, 
as  appears  by  the  tenor  of  his  appeal  sent  into  chancery  by  the  king's 
command,  and  the  said  mayor  and  bailiffs  have  for  that  reason  taken 
him  and  are  detaining  him  in  the  prison  of  that  town  as  the  king  has 
learned  ;  but  it  is  the  king's  will  that  he  shall  be  sent  to  Neugate  gaol 
as  usual  to  answer  touching  the  said  appeal. 

April  29.  To  John  ap  Rees  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.  Order  to  cause 
Westminster.  Thomas  de  Cobberley,  son  and  heir  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  William 
de  Whityngton  tenant  in  chief,  to  have  seisin  of  his  said  mother's 
lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  her  death  ;  as  he  has  proved  his 
age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and 
fealty.  By  p.s.  [29653.] 


500 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373. 


Membrane  33 — cont. 


May  3.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  excliequer.     Order  to  cause 

Westminster,  the  arrears  of  20^  a  year  of  the  farm  or  issues  of  the  county  of  Suffolk 
since  1  December  in  the  43rd  year  of  the  reign,  on  which  date  the  king 
commanded  hvery  of  the  lands  of  Robert  de  UfTord  earl  of  Suffolk  to 
be  given  to  William  de  UfYord  now  earl  his  son  and  heir,  to  be  paid  to 
the  said  William,  and  the  same  to  be  yearly  paid  him  henceforward 
by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  for  the  time  being,  allowing  to  the  sheriff 
all  sums  which  they  shall  be  assured  that  he  has  so  paid  provided  that 
he  shall  upon  his  account  deliver  acquittances  for  the  same  ;  as  willing 
to  honour  the  said  Robert's  person  the  king  lately  gave  him  the  name 
and  honour  of  earl  of  Suffolk,  preferring  him  to  that  earldom  and 
girding  him  with  the  sword,  and  for  support  of  that  honour  granted 
to  him  and  his  heirs  by  charter  20/.  to  be  taken  every  year  as  aforesaid 
at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Membrane  32. 
May  4.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln  to   cause  a   coroner  to   be   elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Henrj^  Wad3^ngliam  of  Grymesby,  who  is  aged  and  infirm. 

May  3.  To  Nicholas    Seymour  escheator  in    Norhamptonshire.     Order  to 

Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors 
of  Thorp  Watcrville,  Aldewyncle,  Achirche  and  Chelveston  taken  into 
his  hand  by  the  death  of  Robert  de  Holand  knight,  delivering  up  any 
issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by 
the  escheator,  that  the  said  Robert  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that 
county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  manors, 
which  are  not  held  of  the  king,  to  him  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body, 
and  that  John  his  son  is  his  next  heir  male  and  of  full  age. 

The  like  to  Richard  de  Radeclyf  the  younger,  escheator  in  Lancashire, 
concerning  nioities  of  the  manors  of  Haydok,  Goldesburn  and  Bright- 
mede,  a  sixth  part  of  the  manor  of  Harwode,  a  fourth  part  of  the 
manor  of  Overderwend,  five  messuages  and  8  acres  of  land  in  Neuton 
in  Makerfeld,  and  16  acres  of  land  in  Lauton. 

Maj'  6.  To  Ralph  de  Thresk  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.     Order  to  cause 

Westminster.  John  de  Welle,  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Welle  tenant  in  chief,  to  have 

seisin  of  the  lands  of  his  said  father  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his 

death  :    as  he  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king 

has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [29669.] 

To  William  de  Ergum  escheator  in  Northumberland.  Like  order  ; 
as  John  de  Welle  the  son  has  proved  his  age  before  Ralph  de  Thresk. 

By  p.s.  (the  .same  writ). 

Membrane  3L 

May  3.  To  John  Cavendissh  and  Thomas  de  Ingelby,  justices  appointed  to 

Westminster,  hold  pleas  before  the  king.     Order  by  writ  of  nisi  prius  to  cause  the 

inquisition  whereupon  Peter  Haular  sometime  servant  of  the  abbot 

of  Neusom  has  put  himself  before  the  king,  being  indicted  for  the 

theft  of  one  heifer  it  is  said,  to  be  taken  before  them  or  one  of  them. 

May  18.  To  the  sheriff  of  Devon  for  the  time  being.     Order  of  the  issues  of 

Westminster,  the  county  to  pay  to  brother  Walter  de  Neuport  of  the  order  of  friars 


47  EDWARD  III. 


501 


1373.  Membrane  31 — cont. 

preachers  the  arrears  of  o  marks  a  year  since  IS  January  in  the 
35th  year  of, the  reign,  and  henceforward  to  pay  him  that  sum  every 
year  at  Easter,  taking  his  acquittance,  according  to  tlie  king's  letters 
patent  of  that  date  granting  of  his  favour  to  the  said  Walter  for  life 
5  marks  a  year  to  be  taken  as  aforesaid. 
Et  erat  patens. 

May  26.  To  John  Pyel  major  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator  therein. 

Westminster.  Order  to  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a 
tenement  and  appurtenances  in  Lymstret  and  four  shops  in  the  i)arish 
of  St.  Katherine  Colman,  if  taken  into  his  hand  by  the  death  of  Robert 
Tibetot  knight  and  for  no  other  cause,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  said  mayor, 
that  the  said  Robert  at  his  death  held  no  tenements  in  the  .said  city 
nor  the  suburb  thereof  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  \>nt  that  long 
before  his  death  he  enfeoffed  by  charter  Gervase  de  Clifton  knight  in 
the  premises  for  life  with  remainder  to  the  right  heirs  of  the  .said  Robert, 
and  that  the  same  are  held  of  the  king  in  free  burgage  as  is  all  the  city 
of  London. 

Membrane  30. 
May  20.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Ralph  Kaul,  \\ho  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

May  10.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Warrewyk  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Robert  de  Wavere,  who  is  sick  and  aged. 

May  20.  To  the  sheriff's  of  London.     Order  to  set  free  William  de  Gisburne 

Westminster,  from  Neugate  prison,  if  there  detained  for  the  reason  hereinafter 
mentioned  and  for  none  other  ;  as  on  finding  by  certificate  of  the 
sheriff's,  sent  into  chancery  at  his  command,  that  the  said  William 
was  taken  and  there  imprisoned  on  suspicion  of  the  forger\'  of  the 
king's  privy  seal,  for  \\hich  William  de  Wyghton  the  said  William's 
fellow  and  others  are  before  the  sheriffs  indicted,  and  that  he  warned 
the  said  William  de  Wyghton  to  flee  for  that  cause,  the  king  by  writ 
ordered  the  sheriff's  to  make  inquisition  b}"  true  men  of  the  city  whether 
the  said  William  de  Gisburne  was  guilty  of  that  forgerv'  and  of  giving 
that  warning  or  no  ;  and  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  sent  into  chancery 
at  the  king's  command,  that  he  is  not  guilty  of  the  forgery,  of  giving 
the  warning,  nor  of  any  other  articles  or  circumstances  affectmg  the 
premises. 

Membrane  29. 
May  23.  To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.  Order  to  stay  altogether  a  plea 
Westminster,  before  them  pending  between  the  king  and  Adam  bishop  of  St.  Davids 
that  he  should  suffer  the  king  to  present  to  the  prebend  of  Langave- 
lach  in  the  collegiate  church  of  Abberguilly,  and  notice  that  for 
particular  causes  before  him  and  the  council  laid  the  king  has  revoked 
his  late  letters  patent  giving  the  said  prebend  to  Richard  de  Barton 
his  clerk,  which  the  king  did  behevmg  that  the  same  was  void  and 
in  his  gift. 

Membrane  28. 

May  29.         To  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton.     Order  to  be  in  chancery  in  person 
Westminster,  in  the  quinzaine  of  Trinity  next  to  answer  to  the  king  as  well  for  100s. 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  28 — cont. 

at  which  the  king  has  caused  liim  to  be  amerced  as  for  his  contempt, 
and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court  sliali  determine  in  that 
behalf,  bringing  this  writ  ;  as  lately  by  writ  the  king  ordered  the 
sheriff  to  give  notice  to  Robert  de  Lincoln,  one  of  the  executors  of  John 
Malewayn  and  one  of  the  executors  of  Nicholas  Mockyng,  to  be  in 
chancery  at  a  set  day  now  past  to  shew  cause  wherefore  he  ought  not 
with  other  occupiers  thereof  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  issues  and 
prohts  which  the  said  John  and  Nicholas  took  of  the  lands  which  were 
of  John  Mockyng  tenant  in  chief  by  them  unlawfully  occupied,  and 
further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court  should  determine  ;  and 
although  the  said  writ  was  by  Robert  de  Melton  and  W^illiam  Tyrwhit 
clerks  of  chancery  delivered  at  Westminster  to  the  sheriff,  he  took 
no  heed  to  do  aught  thereupon,  in  contempt  of  the  king  and  to  his 
manifest  loss,  wherefore  the  king  has  caused  him  to  be  amerced  as 
aforesaid. 

May  15.  To  the  sheriff'  of  Northumberland.     Order  to  levy  60/.  of  the  lands 

Westminster,  and  chattels  of  Ellen  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Hatfeld  in  his  bailiwick, 
within  liberties  and  without,  and  to  deliver  it  to  Robert  son  of  Robert 
son  of  Robert  de  Ogle,  cousin  and  heir  of  Robert  de  Ogle  tenant  in 
chief,  for  his  maintenance  for  ffve  years  now  past,  according  to  a 
judgment  of  the  court  of  chancery,  giving  notice  in  chancery  in  the 
octaves  of  Michaelmas  next  by  letters  under  his  seal  how  he  has 
executed  this  order,  and  bringing  this  writ ;  as  the  said  heir,  being 
within  age  and  in  the  king's  wardship,  recovered  in  chancery  for  his 
maintenance  against  the  said  Ellen,  who  has  occupied  the  lands  of 
his  heritage  for  five  years,  201.  for  the  first  two  j-ears  (to  wit  10/.  a  year), 
20  marks  for  either  of  the  remaining  three  years,  and  henceforward 
20/.  a  year  until  his  lawful  age,  as  appears  by  the  record  and  process 
thereupon  had. 

June  12.  To  Roger  Keterich  escheator  in  Hertfordshire.  Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  and 
advowson  of  Wakele,  a  messuage,  80  acres  of  land  and  2  acres  of 
pasture  in  Aspeden,  a  toft  called  the  More,  a  windmill,  100  acres  of 
land,  2  acres  of  pasture  and  4  acres  of  wood  in  Erdele,  a  toft,  40  acres 
of  pasture  and  20s.  of  rent  in  Codreth,  the  moiety  of  a  messuage,  30  acres 
of  land  and  8s.  of  rent  in  Flamstede,  and  the  manor  of  Madcroft  in 
Dyneslee  Furnyval,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of 
Edward  de  Kendale  knight,  delivering  to  Elizabeth  his  wife  any 
issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by 
the  escheator,  that  the  said  Edward  at  his  death  held  the  premises 
jointlj^  with  the  said  Elizabeth,  and  that  they  are  not  held  of  the  king. 

June  10,  To  Philip  de  Courtenay  admiral  of  the  fleet  towards  the  west,  or  to 
Westminster,  his  lieutenant  in  singular  the  ports  and  places  in  the  counties  of  Devon, 
Somerset,  Dorset  and  Suthampton.  Order  to  command  all  and 
singular  the  ships  and  other  vessels  arrested  for  the  king's  service  in 
any  of  those  ports  to  be  dearrested,  suffering  them  to  go  their  way, 
except  those  which  the  king  by  information  of  Thomas-  de  Stanes 
ordered  to  be  provided  for  his  service  by  the  said  admiral  or  lieutenant, 
telling  the  masters  of  the  said  ships  on  the  king's  behalf  to  repair  to 
the  treasurer  in  order  to  account  for  their  wages  and  the  wages  of  the 
seamen  thereof  for  the  time  they  were  so  under  arrest,  and  to  receive 
what  shall  by  such  account  be  due  to  them,  if  they  think  fit. 


47  EDWARD  III. 


503 


1373.  Membrane  28 — conl. 

June  12.  To  Simon  Warde  keeper  of  Okhani  castle,  or  to  liis  lieutenant. 
Westminster.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Nichola.s  de  Stoke  j)ar.son  of  the  chapel 
within  the  said  castle,  to  pay  him  of  the  i.ssues  of  tlie  castle  so  much 
for  his  maintenance  every  year  from  the  death  of  Humphrey  deBohun 
earl  of  Hereford  the  king's  tenant  so  long  as  he  the  said  Simon  shall 
be  keeper  thereof  as  the  said  Nicholas  and  other  parsons  have  been 
used  of  right  to  take  time  out  of  mind,  and  to  deliver  to  hiui  every  year 
so  many  loads  of  wood  as  he  and  his  predecessors  have  been  used  to 
take,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  he  and  all 
his  predecessors  time  out  of  mind  used  in  aid  of  their  maintenance  to 
have  and  take  of  the  issues  and  profits  of  the  castle  by  the  hands  of 
the  reeve  thereof  a  yearly  rent  of  8  marks  ~s.  l.V/.,  and  four  loads 
of  wood  by  livery  of  the  parker  for  the  time  being,  until  by  the  said 
earl's  death  the  castle  was  seized  into  the  king's  hand,  praying  payment 
and  livery  of  the  same. 

Membrane  27. 
June  12.  To  Roger  Keterich  escheator  in  Essex  and  Hertfordshire.  Order 
Westminster,  in  name  of  the  king's  lordship  to  take  a  simple  seisin  within  the  bishop 
of  Ely's  palace  at  Ely  by  reason  of  the  vacancy  of  that  bishopric, 
which  is  in  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  the  last  bishop  of  Ely, 
and  straightway  to  w ithdraw  without  taking  fealty  or  acknowledg- 
ment of  any  tenant  of  the  bishopric  or  taking-  or  carrying  away  aught 
else,  not  meddling  further  in  anywise  with  the  keeping  of  the  bishopric, 
the  manors,  property  or  goods  whatsoever  to  the  same  belonging, 
and  delivering  wholly  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Ely  any  issues 
thereof  taken,  for  it  is  the  king's  will  that  the  escheator  be  thereof 
discharged  toward  him  ;  as  on  2  March  iii  the  third  year  of  his  reign, 
with  the  assent  of  the  prelates,  earls,  barons  and  other  nobles  of  the 
realm,  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  to  John  de  Hothum  then 
bishop  of  Ely  and  to  the  said  prior  and  convent  that  thenceforward 
at  every  vacancy  of  the  bishopric  by  death,  cession,  resignation  or 
otherwise  the  prior  and  convent  and  their  successors  should  have 
the  keeping  of  the  bishopric  and  of  all  the  temporalities  thereof  with 
all  property  to  the  same  belonging  as  fully  as  in  any  times  past  any 
bishop  used  to  hold  the  same  when  the  see  was  filled,  or  as  the  king 
or  his  heirs  might  or  ought  to  have  held  it  had  the  keeping  been 
retained  in  their  hands,  so  that  the  prior  and  convent  should  have 
free  administration  of  the  temporalities,  property  and  goods  aforesaid, 
taking  all  emoluments  and  disposing  thereof  as  they  should  see  best, 
and  as  the  bishop  might  when  the  see  was  filled,  or  the  king  or  his 
heirs  in  times  of  vacancies,  saving  to  the  king  the  knights'  fees  held 
of  the  bishopric,  and  the  advowsons  of  churches  when  they  should 
fall  in  during  vacancies,  so  that  all  rents  and  yearly  services  of  the 
said  fees  arising  in  times  of  vacancies  should  remain  to  the  prior  and 
convent,  and  saving  also  to  him  the  escheats  which  should  at  such 
times  fall  in,  so  that  all  rents  and  yearly  services  thereof  arising 
during  vacancies  should  likewise  remain  to  the  prior  and  convent, 
which  escheats  at  the  end  of  every  vacancy,  namely  after  fealty  done 
by  the  bishop  elect  and  confirmed  or  appointed,  should  be  to  such 
bishop  delivered  and  remain  to  him  and  his  successors  ^\■ithout 
occasion  or  impediment  of  the  king  or  his  heirs,  rendering  to  the  king 
and  to  his  heirs  for  every  vacancj^  if  lasting  one  whole  year  2,000^., 
and  if  a  less  or  a  greater  time  less  or  more  in  proportion  ;    and  the 


504  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLL!^. 


1373.  Membrane  27 — ccml. 

king  granted  that  the  prior  and  convent  should  ha\e  tlie  keeping  as 
aforesaid  at  every  vacancy  how  long  soever  it  should  endure,  so  that 
no  escheator,  sheriff,  bailiffs  or  ministers  of  the  king  should  b}'  reason 
tliereof  meddle  with  the  keeping  of  the  bishopric  or  of  the  manors, 
properties  or  goods  whatsoever  thereto  belonging,  except  that  in  the 
beginning  of  e\ery  vacancy  the  escheator  or  other  the  king's  minister  for 
the  time  being  should  in  name  of  the  king's  lordship  take  a  simple  seisin 
within  the  said  palace  and  straightway  depart  as  aforesaid,  so  that 
b^'  reason  tliereof  he  should  not  make  his  abode  there  longer  than  one 
day  nor  leave  any  substitute  in  his  room,  saving  also  to  the  king  and 
his  heirs  in  times  of  vacancies  the  keeping  of  any  lands  or  rents 
thereafter  acquired  by  the  bishop  in  fee,  or  that  should  by  escheat  or 
otherwise  come  to  the  bishop's  hands,  to  be  kept  during  vacancies 
by  the  king's  escheatorsor  other  ministers,  so  that  the  rents  and  yearly 
services  of  lands  so  coming  to  the  bishop's  hands  should  during 
vacancies  remain  to  the  prior  and  convent  and  to  their  successors, 
and  that  by  reason  of  such  keeping  no  escheators  or  other  ministers 
should  enter  the  bishopric  nor  meddle  therewith  or  with  aught  thereto 
belonging.  Proviso  that  during  this  vacancy  the  escheator  shall 
retain  in  the  king's  hand  the  keeping  of  any  lands  and  rents  for  the 
bishopric  acquired  in  fee  after  the  aforesaid  date,  and  of  lands  which 
have  come  to  the  bishops'  hands  from  that  date  until  now  by  escheat  or 
otherwise. 

The  like  to  the  following  : 
John  de  Broghton  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire  and  Huntingdonshire. 
John  de  Weston  escheator  in  Norffolk  and  Suffolk. 
John  Pyel  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator  therein. 

Writ  de  inlendcndo  addressed  to  the  knights,  free  men  and  all 
other  tenants  of  the  bishopric  of  Ely  in  favour  of  the  said  prior  and 
convent,  so  long  as  this  vacancy  shall  last. 

July  26.  To  all  free  men  of  Ely  and  tenants  there  of  the  bishopric  of  Ely, 

Westminster,  now  void  and  in  the  king's  hand.  Writ  de  inlendendo  in  favour  of 
the  prior  and  convent  of  Ely  during  this  vacancy,  as  well  in  regard 
to  their  acknowledgments  because  of  the  lordship  of  the  bishopric 
as  in  regard  to  their  services  etc.  Avliich  by  reason  of  this  vacancy  they 
are  bound  or  ought  to  do  to  the  king,  or  ought  to  have  done  or  to  do 
to  him,  paying  to  the  prior  and  convent  in  the  king's  name  as  keepers 
of  the  bishopric  and  of  the  temporalities  thereof  that  wliich  they  are 
bound  to  pay  for  this  vacancy  by  reason  of  such  acknowledgment,  for 
it  is  the  king's  will  that  they  be  thereof  discharged  toward  him,  and  so 
behaving  themselves  that  the  payment  which  the  prior  and  convent  are 
bound  to  make  to  the  king  for  keeping  the  same  be  not  by  their  default 
hindered  or  delayed,  where b}^  the  king  would  have  matter  of  wrath 
against  them  ;  as  the  prior  and  convent  have  the  keeping  of  the 
bishopric  and  of  the  temporalities  thereof  at  a  set  yearly  rent  by 
virtue  of  the  king's  grant  lately  made  to  them  by  letters  patent. 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  free  men  and  tenants  of  the  hundred  of  Wycheford. 
The  free  men  and  tenants  of  the  hundred  of  Wysebech. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge  to  be  aiding  the  said  prior  and 
convent,  that  the  free  men  and  tenants  in  that  county  be  intendant 
to  them  as  aforesaid,  so  that  the  prior  and  convent  may  the  more 
promptly  content  the  king  of  their  said  farm. 


47  EDWARD  III. 


605 


1373. 

May  28. 


Membrane  26. 


To  the  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Dovorre.  Strict  order  from  time  to 
Westminster,  time  SO  often  as  they  shall  have  warning  to  purvey  hackne3's  at  a 
reasonable  charge  for  riding  thence  to  the  next  town  where  hackneys 
may  be  pur\'eyed,  for  messengers  whatsoever  sent  to  the  king  and 
council  from  over  sea  by  the  captain  and  treasurer  of  Calais  or  one 
of  them  with  letters  or  reports,  or  for  those  henceforward  who  shall 
otherwise  come  thither,  or  at  the  command  of  the  king  or  of  the  said 
captain  and  treasurer  or  one  of  them  shall  pass  by  the  said  towns 
going  hence  to  those  parts,  that  the  king's  business  be  not  delayed 
by  default  or  neglect  of  the  said  bailiffs  or  by  excessive  hire  of 
hackneys,  compelling  keepers  of  hackneys  so  to  do  if  need  be. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Canterbury. 
The  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Rochester. 
The  bailiff's  of  the  town  of  Suthwerk. 

June  2.  To  Roger  Keterich  escheator  in  Hertfordshire.     Order  to  remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of 
Knebworth  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Walter  de 
Mauny  knight,  delivering  to  Margaret  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  the  said  Walter  at  his  death  held  the  said  manor  jointly  with 
the  said  Margaret  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Nicholas  de  Hortoix 
clerk  and  Robert  de  Ellerton  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies, 
and  that  the  same  was  lately  held  of  Robert  de  Insula  of  Rougemont 
{de  Rubeo  Monte),  and  after  of  the  king  as  of  the  knights'  fees  of  the 
said  Robert  by  him  given  to  the  king  ;  and  the  king  has  now  given 
the  said  fees  to  his  son  John  king  of  Castile  and  Leon  and  duke  of 
Lancaster. 

May  20.  To  Roger  Keterich  escheator  in  Essex  and  Hertfordshire.     Order 

Westminster,  to  deliver  to  Philip  de  Melreth  clerk  executor  of  Humphrey  de  Boliun 
earl  of  Hereford,  to  whom  administration  of  the  said  earl's  goods  has 
been  committed  by  William  archbishop  of  Canterbury  and  John 
bishop  of  Lincoln  as  appears  by  their  letters  patent  produced  in 
chancery,  to  hold  for  one  j^ear  from  the  said  earl's  death,  all  the 
castles,  manors,  lordships,  lands  etc.  in  his  bailiwick  whereof  the 
said  earl  was  seised  at  his  death,  the  wardship  whereof  is  in  the  king's 
hand  bj'  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heirs,  and  the  issues  thereof  taken 
since  the  earl's  death,  except  the  manors,  lordships  and  lands  assigned 
in  dower  to  Joan  late  his  wife,  and  except  the  manors  of  Hasele  and 
Piriton  co.  Oxford  and  Henton  co.  Berkes  ;  as  in  consideration  of  the 
good  and  praiseworthy  services  as  well  of  William  de  Bohun  late  earl 
of  Norhampton  the  king's  cousin  in  his  life  time  as  of  the  said 
Humphrey  his  son  and  heir,  on  10  January  last  the  king  of  his  favour 
granted  by  letters  patent  that,  in  aid  of  paj'ment  of  the  debts  wherein 
the  said  earls  at  their  deaths  were  bound,  the  executors  of  the  earl 
of  Hereford  should  have  for  one  whole  year  after  his  death  the  castles, 
manors,  lordships,*  lands  etc.  in  England  and  the  march  of  Wales 
•whereof  he  was  seised  and  whereof  the  wardship  ought  to  pertain  to 
the  king  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heirs,  taking  the  issues  and 
profits  during  that  year  without  rendering  account  or  aught  else  to 
the  king,  saving  to  the  king  the  wardship  and  marriage  of  the  heir 
or  heirs,  and  the  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  of  churches  thereto 


506  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  26 — cont. 

belonging,  so  that  without  waste  and  destruction  the  said  executors 
should  keep  the  premises  during  tliat  term,  and  after  the  year 
complete  and  ended  the  wardship  thereof  should  be  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  and  with  him  remain  until  the  lawful  age  of  such  heir 
or  heirs  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will  that  the  said  executors  shall  have 
the  premises  during  the  said  year  and  the  issues  thereof  according 
to  his  grant,  except  those  assigned  in  dower  as  aforesaid,  and  except 
the  said  manors  of  Hasele,  Piriton  and  Henton  and  the  manor  of 
Wycombe  co.  Bukingham  which  for  particular  causes  he  will  keep 
in  his  hands,  so  that  they  keep  the  same  without  waste  and  destruction, 
finding  and  bearing  during  that  year  all  charges  that  pertain  as  well 
to  Loghmaban  castle  as  to  otlier  the  premises. 

The  like  to  John  Froille  escheator  in  Oxfordshire,  Berkshire  and 
Wiltesir. 

To  John  de  Weston  escheator  in  Norffolk.     Like  order  to  deliver 
to  the  said  executors  for  one  year  all  the  castles,  manors,  lordships, 
lands  etc.  in  his  bailiwick  whereof  the  earl  of  Hereford  was  seised, 
and  the  issues  thereof  taken. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

John  Foucher  escheator  in  Notinghamshire. 

John  ap  Rees  escheator  in  Gloucestershire,   Herefordshire  and 

the  march  of  Wales  adjacent. 
Ralph  de  Thresk  escheator  in  Lincolnshire. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton.  Order  of  the  issues  of  his  bailiwick 
to  pay  to  Philip  de  Melreth  clerk  executor  of  the  earl  of  Hereford 
for  one  year  only  at  the  accustomed  terms  by  even  portions  201.  which 
the  said  earl  in  his  life  time  used  yearly  to  take  of  the  issues  of  that 
county  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff,  taking  his  acquittance. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  sheriff  of  Essex,  for  payment  of  40Z.  lOs.  lOd. 
The  sheriff'  of  Hereford,  for  payment  of  201.  10s.  lOd. 

Membrane  25. 

June  13.  To  John  Foucher  escheator  in  Not3Tighamshire  and  Derbyshire. 
Westminster.  Order  to  deliver  to  William  son  of  Thomas  son  of  Thomas  de  Chaworth 
knight  {militis),  being  cousin  and  heir  of  Thomas  de  Chaworth  knight 
tenant  by  knight  service  of  the  king  as  of  the  honour  of  Tikhull  late  in 
the  king's  hand,  the  lands  of  his  said  grandfather  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  his  death ;  as  the  said  William  has  proved  his  age  before 
Richard  de  Foxton  escheator  in  Lej^cestershire,  and  on  25  June  last 
the  king  gave  the  castle,  manor  and  honour  of  Tykhull  with  the  knights' 
fees  thereto  pertaining  to  his  son  John  king  of  Castile  and  Leon  and 
duke  of  Lancastre  in  exchange  for  other  lands. 

Aug.  L  To  John  de  Mattesford  escheator  in  Devon.     Order  to  remove  the 

Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  carucate  of  land  in 
Wolfysnymet,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  it  is  found 
by  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  John  Waskham  late 
escheator,  that  Richard  Wolf,  son  and  heir  of  Walter  Wolf,  who  died 
on  Saturday  before  Michaelmas  in  the  43rd  year  of  the  reign,  at  his 
death  held  the  said  land  by  knight  service  of  William  son  and  heir  of 
John  de  ClavyUe  and  Joan  {Johanna)  his  wife  as  of  their  manor  of 


47   EDWARD  III.  507 


1373.  Membrane  25 — cont. 

Bridlescombe,  that  Ricliaid  son  of  the  said  Richard  was  then  aged 
five  years  and  upwards,  tliat  tlie  said  W'iiliam  son  of  John  died  on 
Wednesday  before  St.  Martin  in  the  43rd  year  of  the  reign,  that  by 
reason  of  the  nonage  of  tlie  said  Richard  the  son,  who  held  the 
premises  of  the  said  William  tenant  by  knight  service  of  the  heir  of 
Hugh  le  Despenser  late  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  the  escheators 
for  the  time  being  have  occupied  the  same  since -the  said  Richard's 
death,  taking  the  issues  and  profits  to  the  king's  use,  and  that  the 
land  yet  remains  in  the  king's  hand  for  that  no  man  has  prosecuted  his 
right  in  that  behalf  ;  but  by  view  of  the  rolls  of  chancery  the  king  is 
assured  that  on  4  November  in  the  30th  year  of  his  reign  the  age  of 
the  said  William  was  proved,  and  the  king  commanded  livery  to  be 
given  him  of  his  said  father's  lands,  and  by  one  part  of  a  fine  levied  in 
the  king's  court  at  Westminster  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  one 
month  after  Michaelmas  in  the  40th  year,  and  produced  in  chancery, 
between  the  said  William  de  Clavylle  and  Joan  his  wife  plaintiffs  and 
Henry  Perceay  and  Richard  Bere  deforciants  of  the  manor  of  Biidles- 
combe,  it  appears  that  the  said  William  acknowledged  that  manor  to 
be  the  right  of  the  said  Henry,  as  that  which  the  said  deforciants 
had  of  his  gift,  and  that  the}'  the  said  deforciants  granted  the  same  to 
the  said  William  and  Joan  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies. 

Membrane  24. 
May  20.  To  William  Ergom  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  to  remove  the 

Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  two  messuages  in 
Kyngeston  upon  Hull  w  hich  were  of  Robert  de  Mappilton  ;  as  lately 
the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  certify  under  his  seal  in  chancery 
the  cause  wherefore  the  same  were  by  Roger  Lassels  late  escheator 
taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  the  value  thereof,  and  he  certified 
that  the  late  escheator  delivered  to  him  by  indenture  two  messuages 
with  appurtenances  in  Kj^ngeston  upon  Hull  which  were  of  the  said 
Robert,  one  in  Hulstrete  the  other  in  Markethgate,  which  messuages 
he  took  into  the  king's  hand  for  that  about  Easter  in  the  29th  year 
of  the  reign  the  said  Robert  committed  a  felony  by  slaying  Maud  his  wife, 
that  the  same  are  worth  185.  a  year  over  and  above  the  rent  resolute, 
and  that  for  that  cause  they  are  yet  in  the  king's  hand  and  in  the 
escheator's  keeping  ;    and  the  king  reckons  the  said  cause  insufficient. 

Membrane  21.* 
July  4.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Essex  to  cause  a  verderer  in  the  forest  of 

Westminster.  Waltham  to  be  elected  instead  of  John  Stoke,  who  is  dead. 

Membrane  20. 
July  1.  To  the  sheriff  of  Salop.     Order  to  cause  Robert  Ferers  of  Wemme 

Westminster,  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage,  two  cai*ucates  of  land  and  16  acres  of 
meadow  in  Neuton  by  Wemme  held  by  Thomas  Hord  of  Neuton 
outlawed  for  felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  sheriff,  that  the  premises  have  been  in  his  hand  a  year 
and  a  day  and  are  yd  in  his  hand,  that  the  said  Thomas  held  them 
of  the  said  Robert  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  and  that  Edmund  de 
Burton  late  escheator  had  the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste  thereof, 
and  ought  to  answer  to  the  kmg  for  the  same. 

*  Membranes  23  and  22  are  blank. 


508 


Calendar  of  close  rolls. 


1373.  Membrane  20 — cont. 

June  24.  To  Robert  Botoun  keeper  of  the  manor  of  Retherfeld  co.  Sutharnpton. 
Westminster.  Order  of  the  issues  of  the  said  manor  to  pay  to  Hamon  parson  of 
Fyncliampstedc,  as  the  king's  farmer  of  the  lands  in  that  county  which 
were  of  John  de  Norton  tenant  in  chief,  'Sds.  yearly  from  26  November 
last  on  \\hich  day  the  king  granted  to  the  said  Robert  the  keeping 
of  the  said  manor  without  rendering  aught  to  the  king  ;  as  on 
2S  January  in  the  45th  year  of  his  reign  for  20  marks  to  be  to  him 
yearly  rendered  the  king  by  letters  patent  committed  to  the  said 
parson  the  wardship  of  the  said  lands,  which  are  in  the  king's  hand 
by  the  said  John's  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  John  his  son 
and  heir,  to  hold  with  all  things  to  such  wardship  pertaining  from 
3  October  then  last  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  heir  ;  and  after 
at  the  suit  of  the  said  parson,  averring  that  the  said  manor  is  charged 
in  365.  yearly  payable  to  the  lord  for  the  time  being  of  the  manor  of 
Tystede  parcel  of  the  aforesaid  lands,  the  king  ordered  John  Froille 
the  escheator  in  presence  of  the  said  Robert  to  make  inquisition  by 
true  men  of  his  bailiwick  whether  the  manor  of  Retherfeld  was  so 
charged,  and  whether  the  nianor  of  Tystede  is  parcel  of  the  aforesaid 
lands  or  no ;  and  now  it  is  found,  by  inquisition  taken  accordingly, 
that  the  manor  of  Retherfeld  is  and  used  to  be  so  charged  time  out 
of  mind  in  'Ms.  payable  yearly  at  four  terms,  and  that  the  manor  of 
Tystede  is  in  the  said  parson's  hand  as  parcel  of  the  lands  aforesaid. 

July  8.  To   John   de   Brogliton   escheator   in   Bukinghamshire.     Order   to 

Westminster,  deliver  in  dower  to  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl 
of  Herford  and  Essex  tenant  in  chief  the  farm  and  manor  of  the  town 
of  Wycombe;  as  of  the  said  earl's  castles,  manors,  lands  etc.,  except 
the  farm  and  manor  of  the  said  town,  the  manors  of  Hasele,  Peryton 
and  Henton,  the  castle  and  manor  of  Okham,  and  the  shrievalty  of 
Roteland,  which  for  particular  causes  he  kept  in  his  ow-n  hand, 
having  taken  of  her  an  oath  that  she  would  not  marry  without  his 
licence,  on  29  March  last  the  king  assigned  to  her  in  dowser  the  castle 
of  Kymbalton  and  divers  manors  and  lands  in  divers  counties  ; 
and  with  the  assent  of  Thomas  Maundeville,  John  de  Bampton  and 
Ivo  Sandhurst  her  attorneys  he  has  assigned  her  the  said  farm  and 
manor  as  her  dow  er  of  the  said  farm  and  manor  and  of  the  manors  of 
Hasele,  Peryton  and  Henton  excepted  as  aforesaid. 

July  15.  Writ   de   intendendo   to   the   bailiflts   and   true   men   of   W3^combe, 

Westminster,  directing  them  to  deliver  the  farm  of  the  town  to  the  said  Joan  from 
8  July  aforesaid.  It  is  the  king's  will  that  they  be  thereof  discharged 
toward  him. 

Aug.  4.  To  Alan  de  BuxhuU  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London,  or  to  his 

Westminster,  lieutenant.  Order  without  delay  to  deliver  to  Helming  Leget,  owner 
(patrono)  of  a  certain  new  galley,  sixteen  seamen  of  Spain,  whom 
lately  by  writ  the  king  commanded  the  said  constable  or  lieutenant 
to  receive  into  custody  from  those  who  should  deliver  them  to  him, 
and  to  detain  in  the  Tower  until  further  order  ;  as  the  king  has 
appointed  them  to  sail  on  his  service  in  the  said  galley. 

Membrane  19. 

July  11.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London.     Order  to 

Westminster,  suffer    a    ship    called    '  la   James '    of    Genoa    and    Manuel   Bache, 


47    EDWARD    III.  509 


1373.  Membrane  19 — cont. 

Bartholomew  Besaigiie,  Anthony  Francisco  do  Maiorke,  Francis 
Berado  de  Maiorke,  John  Sagoia  de  Maiorke,  Francis  Susse  de  Noly, 
Lanifranc  Teste  de  Cestre,  Xichohis  Mantaffe  de  Pere  and  Peter  Viang* 
de  Petro  seamen  of  Genoa,  and  fourteen  other  seamen  of  Fhinders  and 
Almain,  to  leave  the  said  port  at  their  pleasure  and  pass  without  let 
to  foreign  parts  ;  as  the  said  ship  and  seamen  are  not  appointed  nor 
chosen  for  the  king's  service,  as  Helmyng  Leget  has  witnessed  to  the 
king. 

Dec.  4.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Notice  that  the  king  has  revoked  his 

Westminster,  letters  patent  of  protection  granted  lately  to  Robert  Chapman  of 
Dunmowe  co.  Essex,  in  order  that  the  sheriffs  may  proceed  in  all 
causes  against  him  at  the  suit  of  any  who  will  sue  him,  that  protection 
notwithstanding  ;  as  the  king  granted  him  protection  during  one 
year  for  himself,  his  men,  lands,  property,  rents  and  possessions, 
believing  that  he  was  about  to  sail  on  the  king's  service  over  sea  in 
the  company  of  Richard  Grene ;  but  he  has  not,  nor  is  he  making 
ready  so  to  do,  but  is  abiding  continually  in  the  city  of  London  upon 
his  own  business,  as  appears  by  certificate  of  the  sheriffs  sent  into 
chancery. 

April  22.         To  the  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Tywyn  by  Patristell  co.  Cornwall. 

Westminster.  Order  to  restore  to  John  Bonus,  master  of  a  ship  called  '  la  Seint  Michel ' 

of  the  kingdom  of  Portugal,  the  cross  bows  {balistas)  and  other  arms 

of  defence  which  were  taken  from  him  by   the  men  of  that  town  ;    as 

he  is  of  the  king's  friendship,  as  is  witnessed  before  the  king. 

Membrane  18. 
July  1.  To  John  Foucher  escheator  in  Derbyshire.     Order  to  remove  the 

Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  -with  2s.  6d.  of  rent  in  Little 
Stretton,  a  moiety  of  the  site  of  the  manor  of  Morton  called  Parkhalle, 
with  two  carucates  of  land,  6  acres  of  meadow,  10/.  of  rent  and  a 
moiety  of  one  watermill  and  one  windmill  to  the  said  manor  per- 
taining, 435.  4f/.  of  rent  in  Haselond,  35s.  Sd.  of  rent  in  Dugmanton, 
and  1055.  2d.  of  rent  in  Bakewell,  Derley,  Rouseley,  Stanton,  Leye, 
Calton  and  Chattesworth.  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of 
Nicholas  de  Longeford  knight,  delivering  to  Alice  his  wife  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  the  said  Nicholas  at  his  death  held  the  premises  in  her 
right  and  of  her  heritage,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than 
the  king. 

The  like  to  the  said  John  escheator  in  Notynghamshire  concerning 
a  moiety  of  the  site  of  the  manor  of  Knapthorp,  one  carucate  of  land, 
4  acres  of  meadow  and  the  moiety  of  one  windmill. 

July  8.  To  John  de  Broghton  escheator  in  Bedfordshire.     Order  to  take 

Westminster,  the  fealty  of  Elizabeth  wife  of  Edward  de  Kendale  knight  according 
to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  remove  the  kings  hand 
and  meddle  no  further  with  the  manor  of  Wodecroft  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  the  said  Edward's  death,  delivering  to  her  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  at  his  death  the  said  Edward  held  that  manor  jointly 
with  the  said  Elizabeth,  who  is  yet  living  at  Luton,  of  the  gift   of 


510 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  18 — cont. 

John  de  Wilie  parson  of  Walleton  made  with  the  king's  licence  to 
thenx  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  the  same  is  lield  in  chief 
by  knight  service. 

Vacated  because  otherwise  below. 

July  4.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Berkshire  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  William  Baroun,   who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

July  8.  To  John  de   Broghton  escheator  in  Bedfordshire.     Order  to  take 

Westminster,  the  fealty  of  Elizabeth  wife  of  Edward  de  Kendale  knight  according 
to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  remo\'e  the  king's  hand  and 
meddle  no  further  with  the  manor  of  VVodecroft  and  divers  other 
lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  said  Edward's  death, 
delivering  to  her  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
incjuisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Edward  at  his  death 
held  that  manor,  which  is  held  in  chief  by  knight  service,  jointly  with 
the  said  Elizabeth,  who  is  yet  living  at  Luton,  of  the  gift  of  John  de 
Wilie  parson  of  Walleton  made  with  the  king's  licence  to  them  and 
the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  likewise  of  the  said  John's  gift  divers 
other  lands  in  that  county  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

Membrane  17. 

July  18.  To  Alan  de  Buxhull  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London,  or  to  his 

Westminster,  lieutenant.     Order  to  receive  of  John  Galyard  sixteen  seamen  the 

king's  prisoners  of  war  latel}-  taken,  and  to  keep  them  in  safe  custody 

in  the  Tower  until  Robert  Crulle  the  king's  clerk  shall  on  the  king's 

behalf  give  him  notice  concerning  their  deliverance. 

June  2.  To  Ralph  de  Thresk  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.     Order  to  remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of 
Wevelesby,  delivering  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Grymesby  or 
WelhoA^e  the  said  manor  and  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  lately 
the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause 
wherefore  the  said  manor  was  by  Thomas  de  Navenby  late  escheator 
taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  he  returned  that  the  said  Thomas 
so  took  it  because  the  abbot  of  Melsa,  to  whom  it  was  given  in  almoin 
by  King  H[enr3']  the  king's  forefather,  without  the  king's  licence  aliened 
the  same  to  one  late  abbot  of  Welhowe  and  to  his  successors,  and  that 
so  it  is  yet  in  the  king's  hand  ;  and  now  the  abbot  of  Grj-mesby  or 
Welhowe  has  petitioned  for  removal  of  the  king's  hand  and  livery 
thereof  to  him  and  the  convent,  as  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Melsa 
with  licence  of  King  Edward  I  gave  the  said  manor  to  the  said  abbot 
and  convent  of  Grymesby  or  Welho^\■e  and  to  their  successors,  and  after 
the  abbot  and  convent  last  mentioned  granted  to  the  abbot  and  convent 
of  Melsa  a  yearly  rent  of  20^.  13s.  4cL  to  be  taken  of  the  said  manor, 
and  the  king  by  letters  patent  confirmed  the  said  gifts  and  grants  on 
either  side  made,  pardoning  any  trespasses  therein  committed,  as  the 
king  is  assured  by  inspection  of  the  rolls  of  chancery.  It  is  the  king's 
will  that  the  escheator  be  therefore  discharged  toward  him. 


Membrane  16. 
July  4.  To  William  de  Erghum  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  to  take  of 

Westminster.  Stephen  Brunne  security  for  payment  of  his  relief  at  the  exchequer, 


47    EDWARD    III.  511 


1373.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

and  to  deliver  to  him  two  bovates  of  land  and  two  thirds  of  a  messuage 
and  four  bovates  of  land  in  Appelgarth  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
the  death  of  Richard  Brunne  of  Appelgarth  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
b}'  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Richard  at  his 
death  held  the  premises  in  chief  by  knight  service,  and  that  the  said 
Stephen  is  his  brother  and  next  heir  and  of  full  age  ;  and  the  king 
has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  ,     By  p.s.  [29745. j 

Vacated,  because  upon  the  Fine  Boll  for  this  year. 

Membrane  15. 

Aug.  1.  To  William  de  Ergum  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  to  take  of 

Westminster.  Katherine  who  was  wife  of  John  Chaumont  knight  tenant  in  chief 
an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  in 
presence  of  Brian  de  Stapelton  to  whom  the  king  has  committed  the 
wardship  of  the  said  John's  lands,  if  being  warned  he  will  attend,  to 
assign  her  dower  of  the  said  lands,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the 
said  John's  death,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled 
in  chancery. 

To  Ralph  de  Thresk  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Like  order  to 
assign  dower  to  the  said  Katherine,  of  whom  the  king  has  commanded 
an  oath  to  be  taken  by  William  de  Ergum  that  she  will  not  marry 
without  the  king's  licence. 

Aug.  6.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  to  suffer  the  king's 

Westminster,  moneyers  of  London  peaceably  and  quietly  to  use  and  enjoy  without 
impeachment  the  liberties  which  they  have  been  accustomed  to  use 
and  enjo}'  by  charters  of  the  king's  forefathers,  delivering  to  them 
the  distresses  taken  for  that  cause,  and  releasing  their  houses  and 
doors  sealed  up,  so  nevertheless  that  before  such  delivery  the}'  shall 
before  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  find  security  for  their  part  to  make 
satisfaction  for  their  presumption  and  attempt  in  case  default  in 
them  shall  by  the  council  be  adjudged  touching  the  matter  ;  as  certain 
liberties  which  the  said  moneyers  claim  to  have  by  the  charters 
aforesaid  are  now  newly  impeached  b}'  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  and 
by  other  citizens  of  London,  wherefore  various  distresses  are  made 
upon  them  it  is  said  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  desire  that  such  impeachments 
shall  before  the  great  council  be  debated  and  determined,  as  ought  to 
be  done  and  is  most  fitting,  and  as  heretofore  used  to  be  done,  and 
the  said  council  may  conveniently  assemble  at  the  octaves  of 
Michaelmas  next  and  no  sooner. 
[Feeder  a.] 

Aug.  12.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Sussex  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  William  Hurst,  who  is  dead. 

Aug.  21.  To  John  Froille  escheator  in  Wiltesir.     Order  to  cause  Richard  son 

Westminster,  and  heir  of  William  Qu_^^ltyn  of  Wj'^cheford  tenant  in  chief  to  have 

seisin  of  his  father's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  bj'  his  death  ; 

as  the  said  Richard  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the 

king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealt3^ 

Aug.  24.  To  John  Froille  escheator  in  the  county  of  Suthampton.     Order 

Westminster,  to  take  of  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  Devenisshe  tenant  in  chief 


612  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  15 — ccmt. 

an  oath  tliat  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  in 
presence  of  John  de  Foxlc  knight  and  Stephen  Ha3'me  to  whom  the 
king  has  committed  the  wardship  of  two  thirds  of  her  said  husliand's 
lands  or  of  their  attorneys,  if  being  warned  they  will  attend,  to  assign 
her  dower  of  the  said  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  her 
husband's  death,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled 
in  chancery.  By  p.s.* 

To  Adam  atte  More  escheator  in  Dorset.  Like  order  to  assign 
dower  to  the  said  Elizabeth,  of  whom  the  king  has  commanded  an 
oath  to  be  taken  by  John  Froille  that  she  will  not  marry  without 
the  king's  licence. 

Oct.  12.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Leycester  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Richard  Hotot,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Oct.  20.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Xorffolk  to  cause  a  comer  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Hugh  Burdy,  who  is  infirm  and  aged. 

Membrane  14. 

Oct.  8.  To   John  Froille   escheator  in   Oxfordshire.     Order   of   the   king's 

Westminster,  favour  to  restore  to  Geoffrey  Rokele  and  William  Dulsey  clerks,  unless 
they  were  fugitives,  their  lands  and  chattels  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  ;  as  they  were  indicted  before  John  Knyvet  and  his  fellows,  justices 
appointed  to  hold  pleas  before  the  king,  for  that  in  the  fields  of 
Torsmere  they  robbed  a  servant  of  a  certain  student  of  Oxford  of  two 
horses,  two  saddles  and  10s.  it  is  said,  and  after  at  the  request  of 
John  bishop  of  Lincoln  the  ordinary  were  by  the  justices  delivered  to 
him  according  to  the  benefit  of  clergy,  and  before  him  have  lawfully 
purged  themselves  of  that  crime  as  the  bishop  has  signified  to  the  king. 

Oct.  8.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  stay 

Westminster,  their  demand  made  by  exchequer  summons  upon  Richard  Stury  to 
account  before  them  for  the  issues  of  the  office  of  escheator  of  Ireland 
arising,  there  discharging  him  thereof,  although  on  26  May  in  the  46th 
year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  that  office  to  the 
said  Richard  Stury  constable  of  Hammes  castle,  to  hold  during 
pleasure  with  the  fees  thereto  belonging,  so  that  he  should  rule  and 
keep  the  same  by  himself  or  his  deputj"  for  whom  he  would  answer, 
and  by  himself  or  his  deputy  should  answer  at  the  exchequer  of 
England  for  the  issues  aforesaid,  and  by  virtue  of  those  letters  patent 
to  them  sent  in  estreats  the  said  treasurer  and  barons  are  compelling 
and  distraining  him  so  to  account  before  them  for  that  in  the  said 
letters  patent  mention  is  made  that  the  said  Richard  should  by  himself 
or  his  deputy  answer  for  the  issues  of  his  office  at  that  exchequer ; 
as  in  all  times  past  all  the  escheators  in  Ireland  have  been  used  so  to 
answer  and  render  their  account  at  the  exchequer  of  Ireland,  and  it 
is  not  the  king's  will  that  the  said  Richard  be  further  compelled  or 
distrained  to  render  account  before  the  said  treasurer  and  barons. 
The  king  has  commanded  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the 
exchequer  of  Ireland  to  distrain  him  by  himself  or  his    deputy   to 

*  Probably  inserted  here  in  error.  The  preceding  entry  was  in  pursuance  of 
a  writ  of  privy  seal,  No.  29802. 


47    EDWARD    TTI.  513 


1373.  Membrane  14— con/. 

account  for  the  issues  of  his  office  at  the  exchequer  of  Ireland  as  usual, 
and  as  heretofore  used  to  \h'  done. 

To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  of  Ireland. 
Order  to  distrain  the  .said  Richard  hy  hini.self  or  his  deputy  to  account 
before  them  at  the  exchequer  of  Ireland  as  usual,  and  as  heretofore 
used  to  be  done,  for  the  issues  of  his  office  arising,  notwithstanding 
that  in  the  said  letters  patent  mention  is  made  that  he  should  answer 
for  such  i.ssues  at  the  exchequer  of  England  ;  as  in  all  times  past  all 
the  escheators  in  Ireland  used  to  answer  for  the  same  and  render 
their  account  at  the  exchequer  of  Ireland  and  not  of  England.  The 
king  has  commanded  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer 
of  England  to  discharge  liiui  of  rendering  account  before  them. 

Oct.  14.  To    William    Tetlyngbury    parson    of    Bettlishangre,    purveyor    of 

Westminster,  victuals  for  Dovorre  castle.  Order  if,  as  the  king  is  informed,  three 
tuns  of  red  wine  of  the  first  foil  and  four  tuns  one  pipe;  of  red  wine 
of  the  fiftli  foil,  all  of  the  growth  of  Uascony,  and  40  quarters  of  wheat 
bought  and  purveyed  for  furnishing  the  said  castle  are  so  deteriorated 
that  they  are  in  nowise  sufficient  for  the  purpose,  to  cause  the  same 
to  be  sold  ajid  deli\ered  for  tlie  king's  advantage  at  the  best  price 
he  may  by  oversight  and  testimony  of  Thomas  de  Reynes  lieutenant 
of  the  constable  of  that  castle,  so  that  of  the  moneys  thereof  arising 
other  victuals  shall  be  purveyed  for  the  same.  By  C. 

Oct.  18.  To  John  Froille  e.scheator  in  the  county  of  Suthampton.     Order 

Westminster,  to  remove  the  kuig's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor 
and  advowson  of  Gretham  and  the  manors  of  Westbury  and  Empnes- 
Morth  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Thomas  Devenisshe, 
delivering  to  Elizabeth  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  at  his  death 
the  said  Thomas  held  jointly  with  the  said  Elizabeth  the  manor  and 
advowson  of  Gretham  by  gift  of  William  le  Erl  parson  of  Gretham 
and  John  Waryn  clerk  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  the  body  of  the 
said  Thomas,  and  the  manors  of  W^estbury  and  Empnesworth  by  gift  of 
Richard  Abbot  parson  of  Gretham  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  the  said 
Thomas,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

Membrane  13. 
Oct.  31.  To  William  Ergum  escheator  in  Yorkshire  and  Westmorland.  Order 
Sheen.  to  deliver  to  Brian  de  Stapelton  knight  the  manors  of  Carleton 
CO.  York  and  Kentemer  co.  Westmorland,  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  death  of  Thomas  de  Stapelton,  together  with  the  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  tlie  king  has  learned  by  divers  inquisitions,  taken  by  the 
escheator.  that  at  liis  death  the  .said  Thomas  held  those  manors  in 
chief  by  kniglit  service  to  him  and  the  lieirs  male  of  his  body  l>y  gift 
of  John  Leget  parson  of  Melshamby,  William  de  Brune,  William  de 
Birkyn  chaplain  and  John  de  Holme  clerk,  made  with  the  king's  licence, 
with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  said  Brian  and  the  heirs 
male  of  his  body,  and  that  tlie  said  Thomas  died  without  issue  male, 
wherefore  by  the  form  of  the  gift  the  same  ought  to  remain  to  the 
said  Brian  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  ;  and  the  king  has  taken 
his  homage  and  fealty.  "  By  p.s.  [29878.] 

cs  33 


514 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membuane  12. 

Oct.  20.  To    Jului    de    Bio^htou    eschoator    in    Bukiiighain.shirc.     Order   to 

Westminster,  cause  Roger  son  and  lieir  of  Walter  atte  Grove  of  Chalfhunte  St. 
Giles,  who  died  on  Monday  l)efore  St.  Lawrence  in  the  43rd  year  of 
the  reign,  to  have  seisin  of  two  messuages,  two  virgates  of  land  and 
37s.  of  rent  in  that  town,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of 
his  said  father;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  the  said  Walter  at  liis  doatli  held  in  his  demesne  as  of 
fee  one  messuage,  one  virgate  of  land  and  the  said  rent  in  chief  by 
knight  service,  and  one  messuage  and  one  virgate  of  land  of  Philip 
la  Vache  knight,  and  that  since  his  death  Walter  Baillif  of  Chalfhunte 
has  by  \irtue  of  the  king's  commission  occupied  the  premises  by 
reason  of  the  said  Roger's  nonage,  taking  the  issues  and  profits  thereof  ; 
and  the  said  Roger  is  now  of  full  age,  and  the  king  has  taken  his 
homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [29861.] 

Oct.  26.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland  to  cause  a  verderer  in  the  forest 

Westminster,  of  Ingelwode  to  be  elected  instead  of  Adam  de  Blencowe,  who  is 
msufficiently  qualified,  wherefore  the  king  has  removed  him. 

Like  order  to  the  same  sheriff  on  the  removal  of  John  de  la  More. 
Like  order  to  the  same  sheriff  on  the  removal  of  John  de  Denton. 

Nov.  8.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order,  upon  the 

Westminster,  petition  of  Richard  de  Rave  user  the  king's  clerk,  keeper  of  the 
hanaper  of  chancery,  to  account  with  him  concerning  the  fees  for  all 
the  charters  contained  in  an  indenture  made  between  him  and  Richard 
de  Thoresby  late  keeper  of  the  hanaper,  causing  him  in  his  account 
at  the  exchequer  to  have  allowance  for  the  fees  of  all  such  as  by  his 
oath  tliey  shall  be  assured  were  cancelled  and  broken  up  as  the 
manner  is ;  as  his  petition  shewss  that  great  number  of  charters 
concerning  pardons  granted  by  the  king  before  he  received  that  office 
to  divers  persons  for  felonies  at  the  siege  of  Berewic  and  for  felonies 
at  Liverpole  and  elsewhere,  which  were  to  him  delivered  by  the 
indenture  aforesaid,  Avere  by  advice  of  the  then  chancellor  and  the 
keeper  of  the  rolls  of  chancery  cancelled  and  broken  up  for  that  by  long 
keeping  they  were  become  rotten  and  of  none  effect,  but  that  he  is 
being  compelled  by  the  treasurer  and  barons  to  answ^er  for  the  fees 
thereof,  and  is  being  impeached  by  reason  of  them,  praying  that 
provision  be  made  for  his  discharge.  By  C. 

Oct.  30.  To  the  bailiffs  of  Staunford   of   the   king's   son   Edmund   earl   of 

Westminster.  Cantebrigge  for  the  time  being.  Order  henceforward  altogether  to 
desist  from  inflicting  disturbances  and  wrongs  upon  the  prior  of  the 
order  of  friars  preachers  of  that  town,  not  compelling  him  at  the  suit 
of  any  man  to  answer  before  them  concerning  any  contracts  without 
his  knowledge  made  by  the  brethren  his  fellows,  or  for  any  sums  of 
money  by  them  received  unless  assured  that  the  same  were  for  the  use 
and  advantage  of  the  prior  and  his  house,  and  revoking  any  attempts 
unduly  made  in  that  behalf  ;  as  by  plaint  of  the  said  prior  the  king 
has  learned  that  great  numbers  of  men  of  the  town  and  others  of  those 
parts,  scheming  unduly  to  grieve  him,  are  prosecuting  against  him 
divers  plaints  in  the  court  of  that  town  before  the  said  bailiffs  con- 
cerning divers  such  contracts  and  div^ers  sums,  which  they  pretend 
were  advanced  by  thera  to  the  brethren  although  the  same  came  not 
in  for  the  use  and  advantage  of  his  house,  and  that  the  bailiffs  are 


47    EDWARD    III.  515 


1373.  Membrane  12 — conl. 

unlawfully  compelling  \\\n\  to  answer  such  plaints  notwithstanding 
that  he  has  alleged  the  premises,  praying  a  remedy  ;  and  the  king 
takes  note  that  it  would  not  be  lawful  or  reasonable  that  the  prior 
should  be  bound  to  answer  for  any  contracts  made  by  the  brethren 
without  his  will  and  knowledge,  or  for  an}'  sums  by  them  received 
which  came  not  in  for  the  use  and  advantage  of  the  house. 
Et   erat   patens. 

Nov.  4.  To  John  de  Broughton  escheator  in  Bedfordshire.     Order  to  cause 

Westminster,  the  prior  of  Xewenhnm  to  have  seisin  of  a  cottage,  3  roods  of  land  and 
1  rood  of  meadow  in  Bydenham  which  were  of  Thomas  Bate  of 
Bydenham  hanged  for  felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  promises  have  been  in 
his  hand  a  year  and  a  day  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  that  the  said 
Thomas  held  them  of  the  said  prior,  and  that  Nicholas  Styuecle  late 
escheator  had  tlie  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste  thereof,  and  ought  to 
answer  to  tl\e  king  for  the  same. 

Nov.  9.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Thomas  de  Crosseby,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Oct.  20.  To   William   de   Ergum   escheator   in   Xorthumbcrland.     Order,   if 

Westminster,  assured  that  Maud  wife  of  Richard  de  Acton  is  the  same  as  Maud  de 
Hilton,  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with 
two  thirds  of  the  manor  of  Great  Whityngton.  delivering  any  issues 
thereof  taken  to  Bertram  Monboucher  knight  and  Christiana  his 
wife,  Robert  de  Umframville  kniglit  and  Eleanor  his  wife  ;  as  lately 
it  was  found  by  iiKiuisition,  taken  by  Thomas  do  Musgravc  then 
escheator.  that  3Iand  do  Hilton  at  her  death  held  in  her  demesne  as 
of  fee  a  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Jesemuth,  two  thirds  of  the  said 
manor  of  Whityngton,  and  divers  otlier  lands  in  chief  by  knight 
service,  that  the  said  Christiana  and  Eleanor,  being  daughters  of 
Elizabeth  her  daughter,  are  her  cousins  and  next  heirs  and  of  full 
age  ;  and  although  on  9  February  in  the  44th  year  of  his  reign  by 
reason  of  issue  between  them  begotten  the  king  took  the  homage  and 
fealty  of  the  said  Bertram  for  the  purparty  of  the  said  Christiana, 
and  on  13  February  following  commanded  the  escheator  to  take 
the  fealty  of  the  said  Robert  and  by  divers  writs  ordered  him  in 
presence  of  the  heirs  and  parceners  of  that  heritage,  if  being  warned 
they  would  attend,  to  make  thereof  a  partition  into  two  equal  parts, 
and  to  cause  the  said  Bertram  and  Christiana.  Robert  and  Eleanor 
to  have  seisin  of  their  respective  purparties.  by  colour  of  an  inquisition 
taken  of  his  office,  whereby  he  found  that  in  the  late  king's  time  by 
his  charter  of  licence  John  dc  Hawelton  tenant  in  chief  aliened  the 
said  manor  of  Whityngton  to  Richard  de  Acton  and  Maud  his  wife 
and  to  their  heirs,  that  the  .said  Richard  and  Maud  are  dead,  that 
Eleanor  and  Christiana  their  daughters  {sic)  are  their  heirs,  that 
Robert  de  Umframville  knight  and  Bertram  Monboucher  knight 
have  espoused  the  said  Eleanor  and  Christiana,  and  that  without 
the  king's  licence,  and  without  doing  homage  and  other  things 
which  pertain  to  the  king,  the  said  Robert  and  Bertram  have  entered 
the  said  manor  in  right  of  their  wives,  the  escheator  took  the  same 
into  the  king's  hand,  as  by  their  plaint  the  king  has  learned. 


516  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  12—  cont. 

Nov.  22.  To  Adam  atte  More  escheator  in  Somerset.  Order  to  remove  the 
Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  njeddle  further  with  a  messuage,  one  carucate 
of  land  and  16^.  of  rent  in  Xeuton  Sermaville  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  John  son  of  WiUiam  Musket,  deHvering  to 
Eleanor  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  hy  the  escheator,  that  at  his  death  the  said  John 
hold  no  lands  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  premises 
jointly  with  the  said  Eleanor  in  chief  by  the  service  of  6s.  8d.  a 
year  by  gift  of  William  Musket  to  them  made  with  the  king's 
licence  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  the  fealty  of  Robert  Kilburne  who 
has  taken  the  said  Eleanor  to  wife. 

Membrane  11. 

Sept.  18.         To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  to  cause  four  and  twenty  masons 

Westminster,  layers  of  stone  of  the  best  in  that  city  wherever  found  in  the  city 

and  the  suburbs  thereof  to  come  with  all  speed  to  Wyndesore  castle  to 

be  set  upon  a  certain  work  of  the  king's,  there  abiding  at  his  wages 

so  long  as  need  be.  By  letter  of  Adam  de  Hertyngdon. 

Sept.  20.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  the  city  of  London,  and  the 
Westminster,  searcher  in  that  port.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Reynold  Loue 
merchant  of  the  said  city,  to  suffer  him  in  that  port  by  himself  or  his 
servants  to  lade  ten  tuns  of  wine  in  ships  and  freely  without  let  to 
take  them  to  the  town  of  Calais,  first  paying  the  customs,  subsidies 
and  other  duties  thereupon,  any  proclamations,  ordinances  or  com- 
mands to  the  contrary  notw  ithstanding  ;  as  he  has  prayed  licence  to 
lade  and  take  thither  eight  tuns  of  red  wine  of  Gascony  and  two 
tuns  of  wine  of  Oseye,  and  the  king  has  granted  licence  for  that 
Thomas  de  Orgrave  the  king's  clerk  has  mainperned  in  chancery,  under 
pain  of  answering  to  the  king  for  the  value  of  the  said  wines,  that 
the  said  Reynold  shall  take  them  to  Calais  and  to  no  other  foreign 
parts. 

Sept.  17.  To  the  same.  Order  to  suffer  Richard  Lyons  in  that  port  by  himself 
Westminster,  or  his  servants  to  lade  200  quarters  of  old  wheat  by  him  purveyed 
in  a  ship  called  '  la  Gracedieu  '  of  London,  and  freely  without  let  to 
send  or  bring  the  same  to  the  city  of  Bourdeaux,  first  paying  the 
customs,  subsidies  and  other  duties,  any  proclamations,  ordinances 
or  commands  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding  ;  as  the  king  has  given 
him  licence  so  to  do  for  wines  to  be  there  bought  and  brought  to 
England. 

Sept.  12.         Robert  CruUe  clerk  has  the  like  writ,  with  licence  to  lade  and  take 
Westminster,  thither  ten  tuns  of  wheat. 

Sept.  8.  To  the  maj-or  and  baUiflfs  of  the  town  of  Sandewic,  and  to  the  collectors 

Westminster,  of  customs  in  the  port  thereof.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Arnald  Broun 
of  Sandewic,  to  take  of  him  an  oath  that  he  will  send  twelve  tun,«  of 
wlieat  of  his  own  growth  to  the  city  of  Bourdeaux  and  nowhere  else, 
and  will  buy  wine  to  the  value  thereof  and  cause  the  same  to  be 
brought  again  to  England,  and  to  suffer  him  in  that  port  to  lade  the 
said  wheat  in  ships  and  freely  without  let  take  it  thither,  first  paying 
the  customs  and  subsidies  thereupon  due,  any  proclamations, 
ordinances  or  commands  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding  ;   as  he  has 


47    EDWARD    III. 


617 


1373. 


Membrane  11 — cont. 


prayed  licence  so  to  do,  and  the  king  lias  granted  licence  so  that  before 
the  ])assage  thereof  the  said  Arnald  shall  before  the  said  mayor  and 
baililTs  and  collectors  make  oath  as  aforesaid. 


Sept.  8.  To  the  mitnster  of  the  order  of  friars  minors  of  England.     Xotifi- 

VVestminster.  cation  that  he  may  if  he  please  lawfnlly  suffer  brother  John  de 
Portynghale,  who  for  three  years  has  stood  in  the  convent  of  the  city 
of  Exeter  it  is  said,  to  abide  in  any  honest  convent  of  the  realm,  not- 
withstanding the  king's  late  writ  commanding  the  said  minister  to 
remove  all  alien  friars  of  the  said  order  who  are  in  singular  the  houses  of 
the  realm  ;  as  it  is  witnessed  to  the  king  that  the  said  brother  John  is 
by  birth  of  the  realm  of  Portugal,  of  the  allegiance  of  the  king  of 
Portugal  the  king's  brother,  and  of  the  king's  friendship,  and  that 
since  his  coming  to  England  he  has  behaved  as  a  friend  and  true  man. 

Sept.  1.  To  John  Page.     Order  to  deliver  to  Joan  Ram  a  crayer  of  hers 

Westminster,  which  is  in  his  keeping,  but  so  that  before  delivery  thereof  she  shall 
find  hini  security  to  ans\\er  to  the  king  for  the  said  cra^'er  in  as  good 
state  as  she  received  it  in  case  it  should  lawfully  pertain  to  the  king, 
or  for  the  true  value  or  price  thereof,  certifying  in  chancery  under 
his  seal  when  such  security  shall  betaken  and  concerning  such  delivery, 
and  sending  again  this  writ. 


Membrane  10. 

Oct.  18.  To  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  order  of  friars  preachers  Oxford. 

Westminster.  Order  at  their  peril  to  remove  from  that  house  all  alien  friars  of  the 
king's  enemies  who  are  now  with  them  abiding  therein,  not  admitting 
them  or  any  other  alien  friars  to  the  said  house  until  they  shall  be 
examined  before  the  council,  and  on  the  king's  part  licence  shall 
be  given  to  receive  them  ;  as  the  king  is  informed  that  great  number 
of  aliens  of  his  enemies  flock  to  the  said  house,  pretending  that  they 
are  brethren  of  the  order,  there  to  abide  under  colour  of  studying  in 
the  university  of  Oxford,  that  so  they  may  spy  out  the  king's  counsel 
and  the  estate  of  the  realm  and  certify  his  enemies  thereof  ;  and  it 
is  the  king's  will  to  guard  against  the  hurt  and  peril  that  maj^  happen 
thereby.  By  C. 

Et  erat  patens. 

[Foedera.] 

Oct.  17.  To  John  Froille  escheator  in  the  county  of  Sutiiampton.     Order  to 

Westminster,  cause  John  son  and  heir  of  John  Husee  tenant  in  chief  to  have  seisin 

of  his  said  father's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  ; 

as  the  said  John  the  son  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and 

the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [29857.] 

Nov.  9.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Sutliampton,  and  the 

Westminster,  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  thereof.  Order  to  suffer  the  victuals 
and  harness  following  of  John  lord  dc  Xe\ille,  namely  six  tuns  of 
wine,  six  tuns  one  pipe  of  cider,  four  tuns  of  ale,  spices  of  diverse  sort 
to  the  value  of  24/.,  bows  and  arrows  to  the  value  of  18/..  and  56  lances, 
to  be  b}'  his  men  and  servants  laded  in  that  port,  and  without  payment 
of  custom  or  subsidy  to  the  king's  use  freely  without  let  to  be  taken 
to  Brittany  for  his  stock  and  furniture  and  for  that  of  his  men  who  are 


518  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  10 — cont. 

thero  on  the  king's  service,  any  proclamations  or  commands  to  the 
contrary  notw  itiistanding. 

Nov.  0.  To  the  baihfTs  of  Great  Jernemnth.     Order  to  keep  .safe  under  arrest 

Westminster,  until  further  order  a  certain  ship  of  Biistol  w hieh  was  lately  taken  at 

sea  and  carried  awa^'  by  the  king's  enemies  and  is  now  in  the  ix)rt  of 

(»reat  Jernemuth,  with  tlie  herring  and  other  goods  and  merchandise 

therein. 

Nov.  4.  To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.     Older,  upon  the  petition  of  John 

Westminster.  Daunteseye  knight  and  Joan  his  Mite,  to  proceed  with  such  speed  as 
nuu'  be  in  a  plea  concerning  tlic  manors  of  Exlide  and  Trowe,  doing 
justice  to  the  parties,  notwithstanding  an  allegation  that  the  king 
by  letters  patent  gave  the  said  manors  for  life  to  John  de  Wynewyk, 
\\'illiam  de  Thorp  and  William  de  Pek,  with  remainder  after  their 
deaths  to  the  prioress  of  Dertford  and  the  sisters  of  that  house  and  to 
Iheir  successors  in  aid  of  their  luaintenance  ;  as  their  petition  shews 
that  before  the  said  justices  they  are  suing  for  the  said  manors  against 
the  prioress  of  Dertford,  averring  that  Roger  de  Ba\ent  the  elder 
gave  the  same  to  Roger  de  Bavent  the  younger  and  Ha  wise  his  wife 
and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  by  the  form  of  the  gift  those 
manors  ought  to  descend  to  the  said  Joan  as  daughter  and  heir  of  the 
said  Roger  and  Hawise,  and  shews  that  the  prioress  in  her  pleading 
alleged  as  above  recited,  and  that  after  the  death  of  the  said  John  de 
\Vynew3k,  William  and  William  she  entered  the  premises  and  holds 
them  by  virtue  of  the  grant  aforesaid,  and  so  without  the  king  may  not 
make'answer,  shewing  that  by  colour  of  that  allegation  the  said  justices 
have  hitherto  deferred  to  proceed  in  that  plea  ;  and  the  king  would 
not  that  justice  be  longer  deferred. 

To  the  same.  Like  order,  upon  the  petition  of  the  said  John  and 
Joan,  in  a  plea  concerning  the  manor  of  Norton  Skydemore  ;  as  their 
petition  shews  that  they  are  suing  for  the  said  manor  against  the 
])rioress  of  Derteford,  averring  that  Simon  late  bishop  of  Ely  and 
William  de  Langeleye  late  parson  of  Rungewode  gave  the  same  to 
Roger  Bavent  knight  and  Hawise  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  of  their 
bodies,  and  that  b^^  the  form  of  the  gift  that  manor  ought  to  descend 
to  the  said  Joan  as  daughter  and  heir  of  the  said  Roger  and  Hawise, 
and  shews  that  the  prioress  in  her  pleading  alleged  that  the  king  by 
letters  patent  gave  the  said  manor,  by  name  of  the  manor  of  Norton, 
to  William  de  Thorp  and  William  de  Pek  for  their  lives,  with 
remainder  after  their  death  to  the  prioress  and  sisters  of  that  house 
and  to  their  successors  in  aid  of  their  maintenance,  and  that  by  reason 
of  that  grant  she  may  not  without  the  king  make  answer,  shewing  that 
by  colour  of  this  allegation  the  justices  have  hitherto  deferred  to 
proceed  in  that  plea. 

Oct.  20.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull. 

Westminster.  Order,  if  all  the  wool  and  woolfells  for  which  the  king  gave  licence 
before  Michaelmas  last  to  divers  merchants  native  and  alien  are  not 
yet  taken  over,  to  suffer  those  not  taken  over  by  the  merchants  to  whom 
licence  was  given  to  be  laded  in  that  port  and  without  let  to  be  taken 
whither  they  will,  the  customs,  subsidies  and  other  duties  thereupon 
being  first  paid  ;    as  by  divers  writs  the  king  gave  the  said  merchants 


47    EDWARD    III.  519 


1373.  Membrane  10 — cotit. 

licence  in  tliat  port  l)efore  Micliaelmas  to  lade  particular  wool  and 
woolfells,  and  to  take  them  to  foreign  parts  wliither  they  would, 
so  that  before  the  passage  thereof  they  should  pay  the  customs,  subsidies 
and  duties  in  the  said  writs  specified,  whereof  certain  were  before 
Michaelmas  taken  over,  and  certain  yet  remain  to  be  taken  over  in 
the  said  port  as  the  king  has  learned. 

Mem  ERASE  !). 
Nov.  3.  To  W'illiana  de  Fyncheden.     Order  to  command  livery  to  be  given 

Westminster,  without  delay  to  William  Brounchild  of  20  marks  arrested  b}'  command 
of  William  do  F3  ucheden  and  by  his  command  delivered  for  safe 
keeping  to  Thomas  Klys  and  William  Baillay  ;  as  lately  for 
particular  causes  the  king  commanded  William  de  F3'ncheden  to 
certify  in  chancery  inider  his  seal  the  cause  wherefore  that  money 
\\"as  so  arrested  ;  and  he  signified  that  one  William  a  stranger 
calling  himself  William  Brounchild  came  as  a  poor  man  begging 
for  his  livelihood  in  divers  places  in  Yorkshire,  and  often  when 
he  begged  bread  he  put  it  in  bags  hanging  about  him  and  sold  it  by 
bagfuUs  to  divers  men  to  feed  their  dogs  withal,  that  at  last  one  Peter 
(traunt  to  whom  he  so  sold  bread  one  day,  when  he  took  it  out  of 
the  bag,  perceived  therein  a  pocket  seeming  to  be  full  of  silver, 
whereat  the  said  Peter  mar\elling  craved  view  thereof,  that  the  said 
William  denying  him  averred  that  there  was  nought  in  the  pocket 
save  old  iron  and  other  things  needful  of  his,  wherefore  the  said 
Peter  for  that  he  perceived  therein  money,  having  suspicion  thereof, 
in  presence  of  divers  men  of  the  country  arrested  the  pocket  with 
the  body  of  the  said  William,  that  after  the  said  Peter  delivered  20 
marks  in  gold  and  silver  of  the  nionej's  of  England  and  France  so 
arrested  with  the  said  William's  body  to  the  constable  of  the  town  of 
Ydle.  and  the  constable  to  one  Richard  bailiff  of  the  wapentake  of 
Morle}-  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  to  the  king's  use,  that  the  bailiff 
suffered  the  said  William  to  go  his  way  in  order  to  bring  testimony 
concerning  his  condition  and  good  fame,  but  that  he  came  not  thither 
again,  that  after  William  de  Fyncheden  caused  the  said  bailiff  to 
come  before  him  at  York  and  before  his  fellows  the  justices  appomted 
to  preserve  the  peace  in  Yorkshire,  for  that  a  loud  complaint  came  to 
their  ears  and  likewise  to  the  ears  of  the  justices  appointed  for 
deli\ery  of  the  gaol  of  York  castle,  that  he  was  endeavouring 
so  far  as  he  might  to  keep  those  20  marks,  concealing  them  from  the 
king,  that  he  being  there  examined  acknowledged  that  he  had  the 
money,  that  the  said  justices  caused  it  to  be  delivered  to  the  said 
Thomas  and  William  Baillay  true  men  of  that  county  in  a  pocket  sealed 
\\^i\\  the  said  justices'  seals,  there  to  be  safe  kept  until  order  should 
by  the  council  be  made  what  should  therewith  be  done,  for  that  they 
were  not  fully  advised  \^hether  the  same  ought  for  the  aforesaid 
cause  to  pertain  to  the  king  or  no,  that  so  the  money  is  yet  under 
such  arrest,  and  that  he  the  said  W^illiam  Fyncheden  has  no 
knowledge  of  the  arrest  of  any  greater  sum  save  the  said  20 
marks  ;  and  noA\  William  Brounchild  has  prayed  the  king  for 
restitution  of  the  said  money,  and  as  well  by  the  certificate  of  William 
de  Fyncheden  viewed  and  examined  before  the  king  and  council  as  by 
examination  of  William  Brounchild  there  made  it  seems  to  the  council 
that  the  monej'  arrested  because  of  suclv  evil  suspicion  ought  not  for 
that  cause  to  pertain  to  the  king.  By  C. 


520 


CALENDAK    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

Oct.  20.  To  Edward  prince  of  Wales  and  carl  of  ('cstrc.     Order  to  command 

Westminster,  so  nmny  .ship.s  of  24  tuius  burden  and  uj)\\ard.s  foinid  witliin  tlie 
prince'.s  lordship  in  Cheshire  as  may  suffice  for  the  passage  of  William 
de  ^Vvndesore  and  his  men  to  be  l)y  his  ministers  there  arrested, 
with  sufficient  ecjuipment  of  seamen  for  the  same,  and  to  be  brought 
by  the  said  ministers  to  Burton  in  Wyrall,  thence  to  sail  to  Ireland 
on  the  king's  service  at  the  wages  and  cost  of  the  said  William  ;  as  the 
king  is  sending  him  thither  as  governor  and  guardian  of  Ireland  with 
divers  men  at  arms,  armed  men  and  archers  for  the  safety  and  defence 
thereof. 
[Feeder  a.] 

To  Ed\\ard  prince  of  Wales.  Order  to  command  ships  which  shall 
be  found  within  his  lordship  of  Haieford,  Melford,  Conway,  Kermerdyn 
and  Beaumareys  to  be  by  his  ministers  there  arrested,  with  equipment 
of  seamen  etc.,  and  brought  to  Melford  (as-  above). 

[Ibid] 

To  John  earl  of  Pembroke,  his  steward  of  Tynby  and  Melford,  or 
the  said  steward's  representative.  Order  to  command  ships  which 
shall  be  found  within  the  said  earl's  lordship  of  Tynby  and  Melford 
to  be  by  his  ministers  there  arrested,  with  equipment  etc.,  and 
brought  to  Burton  in  Wvrall  {as  above). 
■   [Ibid.] 

Nov.  22.  To  the  keeper  or  farmer  of  the  king's  manor  of  Banstede  for  the  time 
Westminster,  being.  Order  of  the  issues  of  that  manor  to  pay  to  Stephen  de 
Haddele  late  yeoman  of  Queen  Philiiipa's  chamber  the  arrears  of 
1005.  a  year  since  14  August  in  the  43rd  year  of  the  reign,  and  hence- 
forward to  pay  liim  that  sum  every  j'ear,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as 
on  that  date  the  king  of  his  favour  granted  by  letters  patent  to  the 
said  Stephen,  for  his  good  service  to  the  said  queen  in  her  life  time, 
100<s.  a  year  for  life  to  be  taken  of  the  issues  of  the  said  manor  by  the 
hands  of  the  bailiffs,  approwers,  farmers,  reeves  or  other  the  king's 
ministers  there  for  the  time  being. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Nov,  22.  To  the  keeper  or  farmer  of  the  king's  manor  and  lordship  of 
Westminster.  Gyllyngham  co.  Dorset  for  the  time  being.  Order  of  the  issues  of 
that  manor  to  pay  to  Stephen  de  Haddele  late  yeoman  of  Queen 
Philippa's  chamber  the  arrears  of  "M.  a  day  since  14  August  in  the  43rd 
year  of  the  reign,  and  henceforward  to  pay  him  every  year  that  daily 
sum,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  on  that  date  the  king  of  his  favour 
granted  by  letters  patent  to  the  said  Stephen  for  life,  for  his  good 
service  to  the  said  queen  in  her  life  time,  the  keeping  of  the  warren  of 
the  said  manor  and  lordship,  and  the  office  of  bailiff  of  the  whole 
hundred  there,  to  collect  the  king's  rents  and  do  all  other  things  to 
that  office  pertaining,  so  that  he  should  well  and  truly  answer  to  the 
kitig's  farmers  or  other  his  ministers  there  for  the  moneys  and  other 
profits  so  recei^'ed  to  the  king's  use,  taking  for  his  wages  for  these  offices 
3cZ.  a  day  of  the  issues  aforesaid  by  the  hands  of  the  farmers  or  other 
keepers  and  approwers  there  for  the  time  being  whatsoever. 
Et  erat  patens. 


47    EDWARD    HI.  621 


1373.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

To  Nicholas  Seymour  cschcator  in  Roteland.  Order  to  cause  John 
son  of  Oliver  Daneys,  being  cousin  and  heir  of  Roland  Daneys  tenant 
in  chief,  to  have  seisin  of  the  lands  of  the  said  Roland  his  uncle  which 
were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  ;  as  the  said  John  has 
proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his 
homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [29908.] 

Nov.  20.  To  William  Ergum  escheator  in  Cumberland.  Order,  if  John 
Westminster.  Le\cdyman  was  not  outlawed  or  convicted  of  felony,  and  if  a  messuage 
of  his  in  the  town  of  Soureby.  w  itli  a  close  there  called  the  '  Barkerclos  ' 
containing  half  an  acre  of  land,  and  2  acres  of  land  lying  upon  the 
'  Skiprigge  '  are  taken  into  the  king's  hand  for  the  cause  hereinafter 
mentioned  and  for  none  othei',  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and  meddle 
no  further  therewith  ;  as  lately  the  king  ordered  Roger  Lascels  late 
escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  certain  lands  of 
the  said  John  in  .Soureb}-  were  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and 
he  certified  that  he  seized  the  premises  into  the  king's  hand  for  that 
he  found  by  inciuisition,  before  him  taken  of  his  of!ice,  that  the  said 
John  committed  a  felony  by  slaying  John  Shepherdson  on  Sunday 
after  the  Exaltation  of  Holy  Cross  in  the  45th  year  of  the  reign,  and 
that  on  that  day  he  held  the  premises  ;  and  the  king  reckons  that 
cause  insufficient. 

Nov.  23.  To  William  de  Ergum  escheator  in  Northumberland.  Order,  if 
Westminster,  assured  that  Maud  wife  of  Richard  de  Acton  is  the  same  as  Maud  de 
Hilton,  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and  meddle  no  further  with  the 
manor  of  Whityngton,  delivering  any  issues  thereof  taken  to  Bertram 
Monboucher  knight  and  Christiana  his  wife,  Robert  de  Umframville 
knight  and  Eleanor  his  wife  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  by  the 
escheator  taken  of  his  oflfice.  that  John  de  Hawelton,  tenant  in  chief 
of  the  manor  of  Haidton  and  Wliityngtoi\  b}'  homage  and  fealt}'  and 
by  the  service  of  rendering  4/.  a  year  at  the  exchequer  by  the  hands  of 
the  sherifT  for  the  time  being,  in  the  late  king's  time  with  his  licence 
aliened  the  manor  of  Whityngton  by  charter  to  Richard  de  Acton  and 
Maud  his  wife  (both  deceased)  and  to  their  heirs,  that  the  said  Eleanor 
and  Christiana  are  daughters  and  heirs  of  the  said  Maud,  and  that  in 
their  right  the  said  Robert  and  Bertram  entered  the  said  manor  without 
the  king's  licence  and  without  doing  homage  and  other  things  to  the 
king  pertaining,  and  by  virtue  of  that  inquisition  the  escheator 
took  the  .same  into  the  king's  hand,  as  the  king  has  learned  by  plaint 
of  the  said  Robert  and  Eleanor,  Bertram  and  Christiana  ;  and  on 
9  February  in  the  44th  year  of  his  reign,  on  the  finding  of  an  inquisition 
taken  by  Thomas  de  Musgrave  then  escheator.  that  Maudde  Hilton,  being 
the  same  as  the  said  Maud  wife  of  Richard  it  is  said,  at  her  death  held 
in  her  demesne  as  of  fee  a  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Jesemuth  and 
divers  other  lands  in  that  county-  in  chief  by  knight  service,  and  that  the 
said  Christiana  and  Eleanor  being  daughters  of  Elizabeth  daughter  of 
the  said  Maud  de  Hilton  are  her  cousins  and  heirs  and  are  of  full  age,  the 
king  took  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  Bertram  by  reason  of  issue 
between  him  and  the  said  Christiana  begotten,  and  on  13  February 
commanded  the  fealty  of  the  said  Robert  to  be  taken  by  the  said 
escheator,  and  connnanded  livery  of  their  respective  purparties  to  be 
given  to  the  said  Bertram  and  Christiana,  Robert  and  Eleanor,  as 
appears  by  inspection  of  the  rolls  of  chancer}'. 


522 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

Nov.  20.  To  the  trea.surer  and  the  chanibeilaiu.s.  Order  to  cause  the  arrears 
Westminster,  of  his  wages  from  12  June  in  the  46th  year  of  tlie  reign  to  be  paid  of 
the  treasury  to  Nicliohis  Potyn,  searclier  of  the  king's  forfeitures  in 
the  ports  of  London  and  the  river  Thames,  if  not  yet  contented  ;  as 
on  that  day  the  king  by  letters  patent  committed  to  him  the  said 
office  to  hold  and  exercise  during  pleasure  by  himself  and  his 
deputies,  and  now  the  said  Nicholas  has  prayed  for  payment  of  the 
usual  fees  and  wages  heretofore  given  to  others  in  the  same  office, 
which  arc  in  arrcar  since  the  said  date  as  he  sa3's  ;  and  by  certificate 
of  the  treasurer  and  of  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  sent  into  chancer^' 
at  the  king's  conunand  it  is  found  that,  in  the  account  of  William 
de  Bridford  late  searcher  in  those  ports  rendered  at  the  exchequer, 
10^.  a  year  arc  allowed  him  for  his  wages. 

Membrane  8. 

Nov.  3.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Essex  to  cause  a  verderer  in  the  forest  of 

Westminster.  VValtham  to  bc  elected  instead  of  Thomas  Samkvn,  who  is  abiding 
over  sea  on  the  king's  service,  so  that  he  is  not  free  to  exercise  that 
office. 

Nov.  20.  To  John  de  Mattesford  escheator  in  Devon.  Order  in  presence  of 
Westminster,  the  heirs  and  parceners  and  of  the  next  friends  of  those  heirs  w  ho  are 
within  age,  if  being  warned  they  will  attend,  to  make  a  partition 
into  four  equal  parts  of  the  knights'  fees  and  parts  of  fees  and  the 
advowsons  hereinafter  mentioned,  and  to  cause  Matthew  de  Stowille 
knight  and  Eleanor  his  wife,  John  Baunsile  and  Joan  his  wife  to  have 
seisin  of  their  respective  purparties,  keeping  in  the  king's  hand  until 
further  order  the  purparties  of  Agnes  and  Agnes  de  Merton,  and 
sending  the  partition  under  his  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery  ;  as 
lately  upon  the  finding  of  an  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command 
by  Thomas  Chaumbernoun  then  escheator,  that  Richard  de  Merton 
at  his  death  held  the  castle  of  Chepyngtoryton  with  the  advowson  of 
the  church  and  two  thirds  of  five  sixths  of  the  manor  and  town  in 
chief  by  knight  service,  and  13s.  4rf.  of  rent  there  of  others  than  the  king, 
and  that  the  said  Eleanor,  Joan  and  Agnes  de  Merton  his  daughters  by 
Margaret  his  first  wife,  and  Agnes  de  Merton  his  daughter  by  Maud 
his  second  wife  were  his  next  heirs,  the  said  Eleanor  and  Joan  being 
of  full  age,  and  the  said  Agnes  and  Agnes  within  age,  on  14  June  in 
the  45th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  respited  until  Michaelmas  then 
next  the  homage  of  the  said  Matthew  by  reason  of  issue  between  him 
and  the  said  Eleanor  begotten,  and  ordered  the  escheator  to  take  the 
fealties  of  the  said  Matthew  and  John,  to  take  of  the  said  Matthew 
and  Eleanor,  John  and  Joan  security  for  payment  of  their  relief  at 
the  exchequer,  to  make  a  partition  of  the  premises  in  presence  as  well 
of  the  said  heirs  and  parceners  as  of  Thomas  de  Stanys  to  whom  he 
committed  the  wardship  of  certain  of  the  same,  if  being  warned  they 
would  attend,  and  to  cause  the  said  Matthew  and  Eleanor,  John  and 
Joan  to  have  seisin  of  their  respective  purparties,  keeping  in  the  king's 
hand  until  further  order  the  purparties  of  the  said  Agnes  and  Agnes  ; 
and  now  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  by  the  escheator  taken  at  the 
king's  command,  that  at  his  death  the  said  Richard  held  in  chief 
the  knights'  fees,  parts  of  fees  and  advowsons  following,  namely  the 
moiet}'  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Bykynton  held  by  James  Daudele  and 
extended  at   lOOs.   a  year,   one   knight's   fee   in  Hamme,   Hole   and 


47    EDWARD    ill.  623 


1373.  Membrane  8 — cont. 

tSpiricoinbe  fonnerl}'  held  by  John  Lercedekiie  at  100.S.,  one  knight's 
fee  in  Overliannne  and  Thanysiegh  formerly  held  by  John  W^yterne 
at  5  nuuks,  one  knight's  fee  in  Dnpeford  and  Shillyngford  formerly 
lield  In"  Peter  de  Bratton  at  lUO.y.,  one  knight's  fee  in  W'estloecombe 
formerl}-  held  by  Geoffrey  Loceombe  at  8  marks,  one  knight's  fee  in 
Poltymor,  Hillake,  Castel  and  Estbradelegh  formerly  held  l)y  John 
IJaunsildat  8  marks,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Sandton  formerly 
held  by  John  lieaiimond  knight  at  5  marks,  the  fourth  part  of 
one  knight's  fee  formerly  held  by  John  Ralegh  of  Ralegh  at 
406'.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Strettheton  held  by  the  prior  of  St.  Mary 
Magdalen  Barstaple  at  406.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in 
Rowedon  and  Grendon  held  b}'  the  said  prior  at  405.,  one  knight's 
fee  in  Estdertc  at  5  marks,  the  moiety  and  the  fourth  part  of  one 
knight's  fee  in  C'huryton  litz  Pa\n  formerly  held  by  John  fitz  Payn  at 
10  marks,  the  sixth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Haske  formerly  held 
by  John  Wotton  at  20s.,  the  eighth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in 
Sturdeton  Yerderigh  formerly  held  by  the  heirs  of  Gilbert  de  Ed^'ngton 
at  205.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Dodeseote  formerly 
held  by  the  heirs  of  Maurice  de  Berkclegh  at  GOs.,  one  knight's  fee 
in  Hiwyssh  formerly  held  by  William  Hiwyssh  at  405.,  the  moiety  and 
the  fourth  part  of  one  knights  fee  in  W^dden  at  505.,  and  the  moiety 
of  one  knight's  fee  in  Waysford  formerly  held  by  Richard  P^'n  and 
extended  at  5  marks  a  year,  the  advowson  of  Chepyngtoryton  church 
which  church  is  extended  at  20/.,  and  the  advowson  of  a  free  chapel 
within  Chepyngtoryton  castle  which  chapel  is  extended  at  405.  a 
year  ;  and  now  the  said  Matthew  and  Eleanor,  John  and  Joan  have 
prayed  the  king  for  li\ery  of  the  said  knights'  fees  and  advowsons 
according  to  their  purparties. 

Nov.  29.  To  the  mayor  and  citizens  of  London.  Order  to  pay  by  indenture 
Westminster,  to  Alice  who  was  wife  of  Richard  Engiis  all  the  issues  from  the  death 
of  her  said  husband  to  3  Februar}-  in  the  46th  year  of  the  reign  of  a 
yearly  rent  of  10/.  in  Suthwerk  granted  h\  the  king  to  her  said  husband 
and  to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  after  the  death  of  William  Aldecar, 
who  by  the  king's  grant  held  the  same  for  life  with  reversion  to  the 
king  and  his  heirs,  by  the  service  of  keeping  at  the  king's  command 
one  greyhound  of  his  for  ever  ;  as  in  recompejise  and  full  payment  of 
33/.,  wherein  at  Michaelmas  last  he  was  bound  to  her  for  10/.  a  year 
lately  by  letters  patent  granted  to  her  by  the  name  of  Alice  Englissh, 
to  be  taken  during  her  life  at  the  exchequer  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas 
b}^  even  portions,  the  king  granted  to  the  said  Alice  all  the  issues 
of  the  said  rent  to  him  pertaining  from  her  husband's  death  to 
3  February  aforesaid,  on  which  day  the  king  of  his  favour  respited  for 
a  set  term  the  homage  of  William  son  and  heir  of  the  said  Richard, 
and  commanded  that  livery  should  be  given  him  of  the  said  rent, 
the  said  issues  being  yet  in  the  hands  of  the  chamberlain  of  London  as 
the  king  has  learned.  By  p.s.  [29918.] 

Dee.  3.  To  the  sheriff  of  Oxford  for  the  time  being.     Order  of  the  issues 

Westminster,  of  the  king's  mills,  meadow  and  pasture  pertaining  to  Oxford  castle 
to  pay  to  Richard  le  Forester  of  Beckele  the  arrears  of  10/.  a  year 
since  1  October  last,  and  henceforward  to  pay  him  that  sum  every 
year,  taking  his  acquittance ;  as  lately  by  letters  patent  under  the 
great  setil  the  king  granted  to  the  said  Richard  for  life  for  his  good 


524  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  8 — cont. 

service  10/.  to  be  taken  every  year  of  tlie  issues  of  Oxfordshire  and  Berk- 
shire by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  at  Easter  and  Michaehnas  by  even 
portions,  and  one  gown  a  year  such  as  the  yeomen  of  his  chamber 
take  ;  and  after  at  his  prayer,  and  for  that  lie  gave  up  tlie  said  letters 
in  chancery  to  be  cancelled,  on  the  said  date  the  king  granted  that  he 
should  take  10/.  every  year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions 
of  the  farm  or  issues  aforesaid  by  the  hands  of  the  farmers  or  keepers 
of  the  said  mills,  meadow  and  pasture  for  the  time  being,  and  one 
gown  a  year  as  above  mentioned. 
El  erat  patens. 

Dec  3.  To    the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Xotyngham  for  the  time 

Westminster,  being.  Order  of  the  farm  of  the  town  to  pay  to  Edward  de  Twyford 
knight  tlie  arrears  since  10  July  last  of  31  marks  a  year,  and  hence- 
forward to  pay  him  that  sum  every  year,  taking  his  acquittance 
from  time  to  time  ;  as  on  that  date  of  his  favour  and  for  the  said 
Edward's  good  service  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  him 
100  marks  a  year,  69  marks  thereof  to  be  taken  of  the  farm  of  the  town 
of  Derb}'  by  the  hands  of  the  bailiffs,  and  31  marks  of  the  farm  of  the 
town  of  Notyngham  by  the  hands  of  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  thereof  at 
Michaelmas  and  Easter  b}'^  even  portions  during  his  life  or  until  the 
king  should  take  other  order  for  his  estate. 

Et  erat  patens. 

The  like,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  the  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Derby  for 
the  time  being,  concerning  the  paj'ment  of  69  marks  a  year  to  the 
said  Edward. 

Et  erat  patens. 

Dec.  6.  To' John  Foucher  escheator  in  Derbyshire.     Order  to  take  of  John 

Westminster.  Barle  and  Eleanor  his  wife,  sister  and  heir  of  John  Basset  of  Russheton, 
security  for  payment  of  their  relief  at  the  exchequer,  and  to  cause 
them  to  have  seisin  of  the  lands  of  the  said  John  Basset  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  his  death  ;  as  the  king  has  taken  the  homage  and 
fealty  of  the  said  John  Barle  by  reason  of  issue  between  him  and  the 
said  Eleanor  begotten. 

Vacated,  because  otherwise  upon  the  Fine  Roll. 

Membrane  7. 

Oct.  1.  To  the  keeper  of  the  island  of  Gerneseye  or  his  representative,  or 

Westminster,  to  the  farmer  of  the  said  island  for  the  time  being.  Order  of  the  farm 
or  issues  of  the  island  to  pay  to  Peter  Guyon  the  king's  serjeant  at 
arms  20  marks  every  year  at  Easter  and  Micliaelmas  by  even  portions, 
taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  on  15  February  in  the  43rd  year  of  his 
reign  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  to  the  said  Peter  for  his  good 
service  20  marks  a  year  to  be  taken  at  the  exchequer  durmg  his  life 
or  until  tlie  king  should  take  other  order  for  his  estate  ;  and  after  at 
the  prayer  of  the  said  Peter,  and  for  that  he  gave  up  those  letters 
patent  in  chancery  to  be  cancelled,  on  1  October  last  {sic)  the  king  by 
letters  patent  granted  him  that  he  should  take  that  sum  every  year 
as  aforesaid  by  the  hands  of  the  keepers  of  the  said  island  or  their 
representatives,  or  of  the  farmers  thereof  for  the  time  being. 

Oct.  22.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  cause 

Westminster,  the  manor  of  Stratford  upon  Aven,  parcel  of  the  temporalities  and 


47    EDWARD    IIT.  625 


1373.  Membrane  7 — cont. 

fdiiiulation  of  the  cluirch  of  WorccstiM-  by  the  kind's  fon'fatliors  con- 
fcnvd  upon  the  said  cluntli  aiul  ii|)on  the  hisliop  of  Worcster  and  his 
successors,  to  be  restored  to  William  now  bishop  of  Worcester  and  his 
successoi-s  as  lie  and  his  predecessors  used  to  hold  tiie  same  before  the 
demise  thereof  made  on  l2August  inthe  l.'Uh  year  of  the  reign  bvWolstan 
hite  bishoj)  to  John  de  l*evto  for  life  at  a  rent  of  t)l)/.  a  year,  confirmed 
by  the  prior  and  convent  of  Worcester  by  writing  under  their  common 
seal  ;  as  after  the  said  I)ishop  granted  that  in  lieu  of  a  yearly  pension 
of  .')0/.  by  him  granted  to  the  said  John  for  life  .'JO/,  a  yeai'  of  the  said 
rent  should  during  the  said  John's  life  be  extinguished  in  his  hand, 
and  that  he  should  hold  the  said  manor  for  life  thereof  discharged, 
the  king's  licence  not  having  been  obtained  touching  any  of  the 
premises,  wherefore  by  process  in  chancery  it  was  determined  that 
the  manor  should  be  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  that  from  12  August 
aforesaid  the  said  John  should  be  charged  toward  the  king  and  should 
answer  to  him  for  the  30/.  a  year  to  him  released  in  lieu  of  the  said 
pension,  and  that  the  bishops  in  their  life  time  and  after  their  death 
their  executors  should  l)e  likewise  charged  and  answer  for  the  remaining 
30/.  a  year  to  them  paid  by  the  said  John  ;  and  now  the  .said  John 
being  dead,  the  said  bishop  William  has  prayed  the  king  for  restitution 
of  the  said  manor  and  of  the  issues  thereof  since  the  said  John's  death, 
and  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  Richard 
de  Foxton  escheator  in  Warwickshire,  that  the  said  John  died  on 
5  June  last,  and  that  long  before  his  death  the  said  manor  was  by 
reason  of  the  said  demise  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  is  yet  in  his 
hand.  Proviso  that  the  bishop  shall  answer  to  the  king  as  well  for 
his  portion  of  the  30/.  a  year  paid  him  by  the  said  John  for  the  time 
that  he  was  bishop  before  the  manor  was  taken  into  the  king's  hand, 
as  for  the  extent  thereof  made  or  to  be  made  from  26  November  in  the 
44th  year  of  the  reign,  on  which  date  the  king  committed  to  him  by 
extent  the  keeping  of  the  said  manor  so  long  as  it  should  remain  in  the 
king's  hand,  to  the  day  of  the  said  John's  death,  if  the  kuig  be  not 
yet  contented  thereof. 

Oct.  12.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  [Lej'cester]  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  in.stead  of  Richard  Hotot,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Nov.  12.  To  John  Romeseye  treasurer  of  the  town  of  Calais,  and  to  the 
Westminster,  searchers  of  the  king's  forfeitures  in  the  port  thereof.  Order,  upon  the 
petition  of  John  Churcheman,  to  dearrest  and  deliver  to  him  8  sacks 
12  stone  of  wool  in  four  sarplers  to  make  his  advantage  thereof,  first 
paying  the  duties  due  thereupon  in  that  port  ;  as  his  petition  shews 
that  in  the  port  of  the  city  of  London  he  lately  laded  that  wool  in  a 
ship  of  John  Pottere  to  bring  it  to  Calais,  and  that  although  he  truly 
paid  to  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  London  the  custom 
and  subsidy  thereupon  due,  and  had  of  them  letters  of  cocket,  as  at 
the  king's  command  they  have  certified  in  chancery,  the  treasurer 
and  searchers  have  arrested  the  said  wool  as  forfeit  for  that  he  had  not 
the  said  letters  of  cocket  to  produce  to  them,  which  letters  by  mis- 
adventure were  lost  at  sea  as  it  is  testified  before  the  king.     By  C. 

Nov.  12.         To  John  de  Thorp  the  king's  clerk,  keeper  of  the  changes  in  the  Tower 

Westminster,  of  London.     Order  to  admit  William  son  and  heir  of  William  Latj'mer 

son  and  heir  of  William  LatvTiier  knight  to  the  office  of  gravnng  and 


626  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Memfjrane  7 — cont. 

working  the  dies  in  the  said  Towor,  if  ho  has  not  yet  liven'  tlioroof, 
dehvering  to  him  his  fee  of  "v.  for  graving  and  woriiing  every  doz^n  of 
dies,  every  dozen  containing  twelve  pieces,  and  iron  and  steel  for 
striking  the  same,  also  the  issues  and  profits  thereof  taken  since 
14  December  in  the  27th  year  of  the  reign  ;  as  on  7  April  in  the  25th 
year  of  the  reign  the  age  of  William  son  and  heir  of  William  Latymer 
son  and  heir  of  William  Latymer  knight  tenant  in  chief  was  proved, 
and  the  king  commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  his  father's  lands, 
and  after  on  14  December  in  the  27th  year,  on  the  finding  of  an 
inquisition  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  Andrew  Aubrey,  then 
mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator  therein,  that  William 
Latymer  at  his  death  held  the  said  office  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  and 
that  with  the  king's  licence  he  acquired  the  same  of  Maud  who  was 
wife  of  John  Buttetort.  and  upon  a  certificate  of  the  then  treasurer 
and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer,  sent  into  chancery  at  the  king's 
command,  that  search  being  made  of  tlie  rolls  of  the  exchequer  it  was 
therein  found  that  in  30  Edward  I  the  said  John  Buttetort,  having  then 
to  wife  the  daughter  and  heir  of  Thomas  son  of  Otto  to  whom  belonged 
in  fee  the  office  of  striking  the  king's  dies,  took  7s.  for  graving  and 
working  every  dozen  thereof,  the  dozen  being  of  twelve  pieces,  certi- 
fying also  that  in  divers  rolls  it  was  found  that  divers  keepers  of  the 
change  of  London  in  the  time  of  the  now  king,  his  grandfather  and  great 
grandfather,  had  in  their  accounts  rendered  at  the  exchequer 
allowance  for  iron  and  steel  bought  for  making  such  dies,  the  king 
by  writ  ordered  William  de  Rothewell  clerk  then  keeper  of  the  changes 
in  the  Tower  to  cause  the  said  William  the  son,  to  whom  the  king 
first  commanded  livery  to  be  given  of  his  said  father's  office,  to  have 
the  said  fee  and  livery  of  iron  and  steel  as  aforesaid,  as  appears  by 
inspection  of  the  rolls  of  chancery  ;  and  livery  of  that  office  is  not  yet 
given  him,  as  on  behalf  of  the  said  William  [Latymer]  the  king  is 
informed. 

Nov.  23.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Berkshire  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  William  de  Hj'ldeslej'e,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Nov.  29.  To  the  sheriff  of  Leycester.  Order  for  particular  causes,  notwith- 
Westminster.  standing  any  commands  whatsoever  to  him  formerly  addressed,  to 
cause  as  well  Richard  Hotoft  as  another  who  is  better  qualified  to  be 
elected  coroner,  although  upon  information  received  that  the  said 
Richard  was  insufficiently  qualified,  the  king  lately  by  writ  ordered 
the  sheriff  to  cause  another  coroner  to  be  elected  in  his  stead. 

Membrane  5* 

Dec.  5.  To  John  Froille  escheator  in  Oxfordshire  and  Berkshire.     Order  to 

Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  lands  of 
Roger  son  of  Richard  de  Stanlak,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  lately  upon  information  received  that  the  said  Roger  was 
an  idiot  from  birth  so  that  he  was  not  capable  of  ruling  himself  or  his 
lands,  the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  make  inquisition  by  true  men 
of  his  bailiwick  whether  the  said  Roger  was  an  idiot  or  no,  and  by 
another  writ  ordered  him  to  have  the  said  Roger  before  the  king  and 
council  in  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Martin  next  to  be  examined  as  the 

*  Membrane  6  is  blank. 


47    EDWARD    III.  527 


1373.  Memhrane  5 — cont. 

manner  is;  at  which  day  the  said  Rogor  was  accordingly  brought  before 
the  chaneeUor  and  tlie  kiiigsj  list  ices  at  West  minster  and  tliere  examined, 
and  by  that  examination  was  foinid  that  he  was  of  sound  mind,  capable 
of  ruling  himself  and  his  lands,  and  not  an  idiot,  wherefore  it  was 
determined  that  the  king's  haiid  should  be  removed  from  his  lands 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  for  that  cause. 

t 

Dec.  7.  To  Roger  Keterich  escheator  in   Essex.     Order  to  cause  John  de 

Westminster.  Muskham  vicar  of  Steeple  I^mpstede  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage 
and  8  acres  of  land  in  Bumpstede  aforesaid  held  by  William  Rede 
outlawed  for  felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  in(iuisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator.  that  the  premises  have  been  in  his  hand  a 
year  and  a  day  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  that  the  said  William  held  them 
of  the  said  vicar,  and  that  answer  has  been  made  to  the  king  b}-  John 
Welde  late  escheator  for  the  year  and  a  day  and  for  the  waste 
thereof. 

Nov.  30.  To  the  sheriff  of  Bukingham.  Order  to  cause  John  Buttourt  knight 
We.stminstcr.  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage  and  appurtenances  in  Neuport  Paynel 
held  by  Walter  Shepherd  hanged  for  felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  John  de  Broghton  the  escheator,  that 
the  premises  have  been  in  his  hand  a  year  and  a  day  and  are  yet  in 
his  hand,  that  the  said  Walter  held  them  of  the  said  John,  and  that 
William  Brokkelegh  had  the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste  thereof, 
and  ought  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  same. 
1374. 

Jan.  22.  To   Matthew    Button.   John   de   Sloughtre,   John   de   Weston    the 

Westminster,  younger.  Hugh  Rodberwc.  Richard  Brayn,  John  Caumpeden  and 
Richard  Busshell.  Order  with  diligence  to  be  intendant  upon  the 
collection  and  levying  in  singular  the  cities,  boroughs  and  towns  in 
Gloucestershire,  the  town  and  suburbs  of  liristol  and  the  precinct 
thereof  excepted,  of  the  fifteenth  granted  for  one  year  in  the  pailiament 
a.ssembled  at  Westminster  at  the  moriow  of  St.  Edmund  the  King 
last  by  the  lords,  nobles,  knights  and  commons  of  England,  and  of 
the  tenth  of  their  moveable  goods  granted  by  the  citizens  and 
burgesses  of  the  cities  and  boroughs  of  the  realm,  and  to  do  and 
execute  all  things  contained  in  the  commission  to  them  addressed, 
not  awaiting  the  presence  of  Thomas  Raylegh,  so  that  notwithstanding 
his  absence  they  shall  according  to  their  said  commission  answer  for 
one  moiety  of  the  said  tenth  and  fifteenth  at  the  Purification  next, 
and  for  the  other  moiety  at  Whitsuntide  following ;  as  lately  by  letters 
patent  the  king  appointed  them  and  the  said  Thomas  to  levy,  collect 
and  receive  the  same  in  Gloucestershire  to  his  use.  namely  as  great 
a  sum  as  at  the  last  grant  of  a  tenth  and  fifteenth  was  levied  in  that 
county  of  the  cities,  boroughs  and  towns  without  the  said  to\\n  of 
Bristol  and  no  more,  so  that  at  the  feasts  above  mentioned  they  should 
answer  for  the  .same  at  the  exchequer  or  elsewhere  as  the  king  should 
appoint  ;  and  the  king  has  discharged  the  said  Thomas  of  levying 
and  collecting  the  same  and  has  altogether  removed  him.  for  that  by 
letters  of  the  privy  .seal  to  him  addres.sed,  and  produced  in  chancery,  he 
is  charged  to  abide  continually  in  the  Isle  of  Wight  co.  Suthampton 
upon  his  lands  there  for  the  safe  guard  and  defence  of  the  island,  so 
that  he  may  not  be  intendant  upon  such  levy  and  collection. 


SS8  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Mkmbrane  4. 

Dec.  U.  To  William  de  la  Vale  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  to  take  of 

Westminster.  Joan  who  wa.s  wife  of  Thomas  de  Stapelton  an  oath  that  .she  will  not 
marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  in  presence  of  Thomas  de  Metham 
and  Elizabeth  his  wife  or  of  their  attorneys,  if  being  warned  they  will 
attend,  to  a.ssign  her  dower  of  the  lands  hereinafter  mentioned, 
sending  the  assignment  under  .seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery  :  as 
lately  upon  the  finding  of  an  incpiisition.  taken  at  the  king's  command 
by  \Villiam  Krgum  late  escheator,  that  at  hLs  death  Thomas  de  Stapelton 
held  in  his  demesne  as  of  ^ee  eight  tofts  and  16  bovates  of  land  [in] 
Suthbrune  and  Tibthorpe  in  chief  by  knight  service,  one  acre  of  land 
in  the  town  of  Pontefract,  6  perches  of  moor  in  Inkelesmore,  2  acres 
of  land  in  the  field  of  Bryne,  the  manor  of  Wath  in  Rydale,  two 
messuages,  seven  tofts,  ten  bovates  and  1  acre  of  land  and  a  wood 
in  Wymbelton,  six  tofts,  five  crofts,  ten  bovates  and  one  butt  of 
land  in  Muscotes,  5  acres  of  land  there,  two  tofts  and  two  bovates  of 
land  in  Northolme,  a  messuage  and  waste  piece  of  ground,  eight 
bovates  of  land  and  a  rent  of  2(1.  of  free  tenants  in  Wygynthorp,  one 
bovate  of  land,  one  close  called  '  Spitelclose  '  and  a  rent  of  3c?.  of 
free  tenants  in  Tyveryngton,  three  fourths  of  the  advowson  of 
Tyveryngton  church,  the  manor  of  Stapelton  with  appurtenances  in 
the  towns  of  Dalton  Ryell  and  Melsamby,  the  manor  of  Kirkebv 
Fletham  with  parcels  of  Fletham  and  Langeton,  and  a  messuage  and 
one  bovate  of  land  in  Thorp  Arche  of  others  than  the  king,  and  that 
Elizabeth  his  sister  whom  Thomas  de  Metham  has  taken  to  \\'ife  is 
his  next  heir  and  of  full  age,  the  king  took  the  homage  and  fealty  of 
Thomas  de  Metham  by  reason  of  issue  between  him  and  the  said 
Elizabeth  begotten,  and  ordered  the  escheator  to  take  of  them 
security  for  pa^-ment  of  their  relief  at  the  exchequer,  and  to  cause  them 
to  have  seisin  of  the  lands  of  Thomas  de  Stapelton,  saving  reasonable 
dower  to  the  said  Joan. 

Membrane  3. 
Nov,  16.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  upon  his 
Westminster,  oath  to  make  allowance  ^in  his  account  at  the  exchequer  to  Alexander 
master  of  the  Domus  Dei  Dovorre,  late  keeper  of  the  king's  victuals 
of  Dovorre  castle,  for  nine  inches  of  red  wine  consumed  and  wasted 
in  ullage  during  four  years  last  past  in  seven  tuns  of  the  said 
victuals  late  in  his  keeping,  also  two  cades  of  red  herring  which  by 
long  keeping  have  become  rotten. 

Dec.  4.  To  Richard  de  Tounley  late  escheator  in  Lancashire.     Order  to 

Westminster,  deliver  to  Henry  del  Kar  his  goods  and  chattels,  if  in  the  king's  hand 
for  the  cause  hereinafter  mentioned  and  for  none  other  ;  as  lately 
the  king  ordered  the  said  Richard  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause 
wherefore  the  same  were  by  him  while  escheator  arrested  and  kept  in 
the  king's  hand,  and  the  value  of  them,  and  he  certified  that  the  said 
Henry  was  before  Gilbert  le  Norreys  one  of  the  coroners  in  Lancashire 
at'Longworth  indicted  for  the  death  of  John  son  of  William  Hawell 
feloniously  slain,  and  that  he  had  goods  and  chattels  to  the  value  of  201., 
which  by  reason  of  that  felony-  he  the  said  Richard  seized  into  the  king's 
hand,  and  for  that  cause  arrested  and  detained  the  same  ;  and  the 
king  reckons  that  cause  insufficient  for  that  as  well  by  tenor  of  the 
indictment,  which  for  particular  causes  he  has  caused  to  come 
before  him,  as  by  certificate  of  John  de  Cavendissh  the  chief  justice 


47    EDWARD    III.  629 


1373.  Membrane  3 — cont. 

sent  into  chancery  by  the  king's  command,  it  is  found  that  after  the 
said  felony  was  done  the  said  Henry  straightway  rendered  himself 
to  the  peace,  and  that  being  indicted  for  the  said  death  he  was  not 
put  in  exigents  before  the  king  by  reason  of  that  felony,  so  that  by 
law  he  ought  not  to  forfeit  his  chattels  to  the  king. 

Dec.  12.  To  Alan  de  Buxhull  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London,  and  to  his 
Westminster,  lieutenant.  Order  to  set  free  Hugh  Pyebakere  and  William  Coke 
from  the  prison  of  the  Tower  by  mainprise  of  John  de  Hatfeld  "clerk 
and  Thomas  atte  Brigge  clerk,  although  for  particular  causes  laid 
before  the  king  and  council  the  king  lately  ordered  the  said  constable 
and  lieutenant  to  take  and  imprison  them  there  until  they  should 
have  command  from  him  or  the  council  for  their  deliverance  ;  as  the 
said  John  and  Thomas  have  mainperned  for  their  good  behaviour 
toward  the  king  and  his  people. 

Dec.  8.  To  all  and  singular  the  king's  sheriffs,  mayors,  bailiffs,  ministers 

Westminster,  and  other  his  lieges  witliin  his  dominion  and  power  as  well  in  England 
as  in  Scotland  to  whom  etc.  Order  not  to  put  the  men  and  tenants 
of  the  king's  castle  and  manor  of  Baumburgh  upon  any  assizes,  juries 
or  recognitions  without  the  court  of  the  said  castle  and  manor  for 
lands  thereof  held,  if  they  are  of  the  ancient  demesne  of  the  crown, 
unless  they  hold  lands  of  other  tenure  by  reason  whereof  they  ought 
to  be  put  thereupon  according  to  the  statute  provided  by  the  common 
counsel  of  the  realm,  releasing  any  distress  made  for  that  cause  ;  as 
by  the  law  and  custom  of  England  heretofore  observed  and  approved 
the  men  and  tenants  of  manors  which  are  of  the  ancient  demesne  of 
the  cro\vn  ought  not  to  be  put  upon  any  assizes  etc.  save  only  upon 
those  which  ought  to  be  made  in  the  court  of  such  manors. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Dec.  20.  To  all  and  singular  the  lords,  nobles,  princes,  knights,  the  king's 

Westminster,  justices,  sheriffs,  mayors,  bailiff's,  officers,  ministers,  lieges  and  subjects 
in  Ireland.  Notification  of  the  king's  will,  with  the  advice  of  his  council, 
that  all  moneys  in  arrear  of  the  sum  of  5,000Z.  granted  of  their  free  will 
by  the  lords,  nobles  and  commons  of  Ireland  at  the  parliaments 
holden  at  Kilkenny  and  Balydoille  which  are  not  yet  levied  of  the 
king's  men  and  lieges  of  Ireland  according  to  the  form  of  the  grant 
shall  be  levied  and  paid  to  William  de  Wj^ndesore  now  governor  and 
guardian  of  Ireland,  and  that  power  is  hereby  given  to  the  said  William 
by  letters  and  writs  of  the  king  in  due  form  made  to  execute  the 
levying  and  collection  of  such  arrears,  notwithstanding  the  king's 
writ  of  supersedeas  to  the  said  William  addressed  ;  as  at  the  suit  of 
certain  the  king's  lieges  of  Ireland,  averring  that  while  he  was  the  king's 
lieutenant  in  Ireland  he  laid  certain  imposts  upon  the  king's  people 
there,  namely  at  a  parliament  holden  at  Kilkenny  3,000/.,  and  at  a 
parliament  holden  at  Bal_ydoille  2.000/.,  by  the  said  writ  the  king 
commanded  him  to  stay  altogether  the  levying  of  that  sum  ;  but  the 
king  has  particular  information  by  nobles  and  other  credible  persons 
of  Ireland  that  those  sums  were  at  the  said  parliaments  freely  granted 
as  aforesaid  in  aid  of  the  expenses  of  the  war  in  Ireland,  and  were 
not  demanded  by  way  of  impost. 
Et  erat  patens. 
[Feeder  a.] 

CR  34 


530 


CALENDAR    01"    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1.373. 


1374. 


Membrane  3 — conl. 

To  the  same.  Like  notification  of  the  king's  will  that  the  above 
mentioned  sums  be  levied  and  paid,  except  of  the  lordships  of  the 
king's  son  Ednuind  de  Mortuo  Mari  earl  of  March  of  Meath,  Conagh 
and  Ulvester. 

Et  erat  patens. 

Vacated,  because  these  letters  took  not  effect,  for  that  the  earl  journeyed 
not  to  Ireland,  as  was  first  appointed. 


Jan.  20.  To  Adam  de  Bury  mayor  of  the  city  of  London.     Order  to  inform 

Westminster,  himself  by  such  waj's  and  meaiLS  as  he  conveniently  may  concerning 
all  customable  goods  and  merchandise  for  which  it  is  not  found  in  the 
customers'  rolls  and  memoranda,  to  be  shewn  him  for  the  purpo.se, 
that  custom  has  been  paid  to  the  king,  certifying  from  time  to  time 
hi  chancery  under  his  seal  any  goods  and  merchandise  v/liich  he  shall 
find  uncustomed,  by  whom  and  to  whom  they  are  being  sold  and 
when,  and  the  sum  to  which  the  custom  would  amount  ;  as  the  king 
has  information  that  great  number  of  goods  and  merchandise  to  him 
customable  are  brought  to  the  city  of  London  and  there  exposed  for 
sale  for  which  it  is  not  found  in  the  said  rolls  and  memoranda  that 
any  custom  is  paid,  and  tlie  king  would  not  be  defrauded  of  the 
custom  to  him  pertaining. 

Jan.  13.  To  John  Mattesford  escheator  in  Devon.     Order   to  cause  John 

Westminster,  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  de  Keynes  tenant  in  chief  to  have  seisin  of 

his  said  father's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  ;   as  the 

said  John  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has 

taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.   [29979.*] 

To  John  Froille  escheator  in  the  county  of  Suthampton.     Like  order, 
as  the  said  John  has  proved  his  age  before  John  Mattesford. 
The  like  to  Adam  atte  More  escheator  in  Somerset. 

Membrane  2. 

Jan.  11.  To  John  Bernes  collector  of  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of 
Westminster.  London  and  William  de  Leght  controller  of  the  same.  Order  to  suffer 
the  wool  in  that  port  to  be  weighed  and  cocketed,  and  the  woolfells 
and  hides  there  to  be  taken  over  sea,  the  customs  thereupon  due  being 
first  paid,  as  before  the  death  of  Robert  de  la  More  Avhom  lately  the 
king  by  letters  patent  appointed  with  them  to  levy  the  custom  and 
subsidy  in  the  said  port,  his  death  notwithstanding,  until  provision 
shall  by  the  king  and  council  be  made  of  another  customer  in  his 
stead. 


Jan.  6.  To  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall.     Writ  of  aid  in  favour  of  Philip  de 

Westminster.  Courteneye  admiral  of  the  king's  fleet  from  the  mouth  of  the  Thames 
westward  and  of  his  lieutenants  in  regard  to  all  things  which  pertain 
to  the  office  of  admiral,  directing  the  sheriff  to  arrest  and  keep  in 
safe  custody  until  he  shall  have  further  order  of  the  king,  the  said 
admiral  or  lieutenants  for  their  deliverance  all  found  contrary  or 
rebellious  therein,  and  when  arrested  straightway  to  certify  their 
names  to  the  said  admiral  or  lieutenants. 


*  The  warrant  is  dated  January  23. 


47    EDWARU    III. 


531 


1374.  Membrane  2 — cont. 

The  like  to  the  following  : 
The  sheriff  of  Devon. 
The  sheriff  of  Somerset  and  Dorset. 
The  sheriff  of  Suthanipton. 
Tlie  sheriff  of  Surrey  and  Sussex. 
The  sheriff  of  Kent. 
The  sheriff  of  Gloucester. 

Jan.  23.  To  Adam  atte  More  escheator  in  Dorset.     Order  to  remove  the 

Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  divers  lands  held  by  Joan 
who  was  wife  of  John  Hamely,  delivering  up  an\'  issues  thereof  taken 
since  her  death ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  the  said  Joan  at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  his 
bailiwick  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  held 
divers  lands  in  that  county  of  others  than  the  king. 

Jan.  20.  To  the  bridge  wardens  of  the  city  of  London.  Order  to  suffer  no 
Westminster,  ships  laded  with  goods  and  merchandise  to  pass  beneath  London  bridge 
until  one  of  the  searchers  of  the  king's  forfeitures  in  the  port  of 
London  has  according  to  the  duty  of  his  office  made  search  thereof, 
and  to  give  information  in  chancery  from  time  to  time  if  the  searcher 
shall  be  negligent  in  the  exercise  of  his  office  or  for  any  cause  will  not 
exercise  the  same  ;  as  it  pertains  to  the  said  searcher  to  search  all 
ships  so  laded  which  touch  at  the  said  city  before  they  pass  London 
bridge  it  is  said. 

Jan.  24.  To  William  de  la  Vale  escheator  in  Yorkshire  and  Northumberland. 
Westminster.  Order  to  cause  Philip  brother  and  heir  of  John  son  and  heir  of 
John  Darcy  of  Knayth,  and  son  and  heir  of  Elizabeth  who  was  wife 
of  Peter  de  Mauley  and  sometime  wife  of  the  said  John  Darcy  tenants 
in  chief,  to  have  seisin  as  well  of  his  said  father's  lands  which  came 
to  the  king's  hands  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the 
said  John  the  son,  who  died  within  age  in  the  king's  wardship,  as  of 
those  of  the  said  Elizabeth  likewise  in  the  king's  hand  ;  as  the  said 
Philip  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken 
his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [29986.] 

To  Ralph  de  Thresk  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.     Like  order,  as  the 
said  Philip  has  proved  his  age  before  William  de  la  Vale. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

Roger  Keterich  escheatbr  in  Hertfordshire. 

John  Foucher  escheator  in  Notynghamshire  and  Derbyshire. 


1373.  Membrane    ^Od* 

Charter  of  John  Knyvet  knight,  Richard  Treton  clerk,  John  de 
Herlaston  clerk  and  John  de  Bretton,  giving  with  warranty  to 
V/niiam  de  Thorp  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  all  their  tenements, 
rents,  reversions  and  services  in  the  city  of  London  which  they  lately 
had  by  bequest  of  Sir  Robert  de  Thorp  knight  late  chancellor. 
Witnesses  :  John  Pyel  mayor  of  the  city  of  London,  John  Philipot  and 
Nicholas   de   Brembre   then   sheriffs,   John  de  IMitford   alderman  of 

*  Membrane  1  is  blank. 


532  CALENDAR    OF    TLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  40(1 — cont. 

Cripelgate  ward,   Richard  Pyke,  William    Bever,    Peter    Dunmowe, 
Walter  Broke.     Dated  London,  20  January  46  Edward  TIT. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westmiaster, 
28  January  this  j'ear. 

Writing  of  William  de  Thorp  knight,  being  a  release  to  John 
Kny  vet  knight,  Richard  de  Treton  clerk,  John  de  Harlaston  clerk  and 
John  de  Bretton  and  to  their  heirs  of  all  advantage  to  him,  his  heirs  or 
assigns,  by  reason  of  the  warranty  in  the  foregoing  charter  contained, 
granting  that  they  shall  not  by  reason  thereof  be  bound  to  make  up 
the  value  of  the  tenements,  rents,  reversions  and  services  in  London 
which  they  had  by  bequest  of  Sir  Robert  de  Thorp  late  chancellor 
and  thereby  gave  to  him  the  said  William,  nor  be  hereafter  troubled 
or  grieved  although  the  premises  or  any  parcel  thereof  at  the  suit  of 
any  person  or  persons  shall  be  deraigned  or  recovered  against  him 
the  said  William,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  or  against  any  others  by  any 
title  or  suit  whatsoever.  Witnesses  :  John  Cavendissh  and  Thomas 
de  Ingelby  knights,  William  Burstall,  William  de  Sandford  and 
Robert  de  Muskham  clerks,  John  Herlyngton.  Dated  Westminster, 
26  January  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  January. 

Charter  of  W^illiam  de  Thorp  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to  John 
Knj'vet  knight,  Richard  de  Treton  clerk,  John  de  Herlaston.  clerk  and 
John  de  Bretton,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  one  acre  of  land  in  Helpeston 
and  the  advowson  of  the  church,  the  said  acre  lying  upon 
Gernounesdyke  betAveen  land  of  John  Risburgh  on  the  east  and  John 
de  Muston  on  the  west  and  abutting  northwards  upon  the  Brodegate. 
Witnesses  :  Thomas  de  Preston  and  Hugh  de  Norburgh  knights, 
Thomas  Mortymer,  John  Geffron,  Hugh  Sulgrave,  John  Lolham, 
Roger  Gerard.     Dated  Helpeston,  28  January  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  Januarj\ 

Writing  of  Simon  Gentil  citizen  of  London,  being  a  grant  and  quit- 
claim to  Reynold  Loue  citizen  and  merchant  of  London,  tenant  of 
the  manor  of  Great  Dels  by  Rouchestre  co.  Kent,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  lOZ.  of  yearly  quit  rent  to  be  taken  for  ever  of  the  said  manor  which 
William  de  Herkestede  citizen  of  London  and  he  the  said  Simon  lately 
purchased  of  Benedict  de  Fulsham  late  citizen  of  London,  as  contained 
in  a  writing  enrolled  in  chancery  3  February  36  Edward  III. 
Witnesses  :  John  Permay,  John  de  Barton,  John  Blockele,  John 
W^alleworth,  William  Permav.  Dated  London,  15  February 
47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  18  February. 

Feb.  24.  To    the    sheriff    of    Middlesex.     Order    bj'    mainprise    of    Richard 

Westminster.  Northland  knight  of  Notynghamshire,  Roland  Armstrang  of 
Cumberland,  Thomas  de  Clyve  of  Lancashire  and  John  de  Dalton  of 
Yorkshire  to  stay  the  further  publication  of  the  exigents  against 
Robert  Aleyn  of  Stretford  atte  Bowe,  bringing  this  writ  before  the 
justices  at  Westminster  in  the  quinzaine  of  Trinity  next ;  as  lately 
by  writ  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  put  the  said  Robert  in  exigents 
until  outlawed  if  he  shoiild  not  appear,  and  if  he  should  appear  to 
take  him  so  as  to  have  his  body  on  that  day  before  the  said  justices 


47    EDWARD    III.  533 


1373.  Membrane  40rf — cont. 

to  answer  John  Wroth  citizen  of  London  the  elder  and  John  Wroth 
of  Enfeld  the  younger  concerning  an  alleged  trespass  ;  and  now  the 
said  Robert  has  prayed  the  king  for  a  stay,  as  he  is  ready  so  to  answer 
and  stand  to  right  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  England,  and 
the  said  Richard  and  the  others  appearing  in  person  in  chancery 
have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  10/.  to  ha^•e  his  body  before  the  said 
justices  on  the  day  mentioned. 

Feb.  23.  To  the  collectors  in  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London  of  the  subsidy' 
Westminster,  of  50,000/.  last  granted  to  the  king  by  the  commons  of  England. 
Order  to  stay  altogether  the  further  levy  of  40s.  to  the  king's  use 
from  Eustace  de  Glaston  keeper  of  the  king's  changes  in  that  city, 
releasing  any  distress  made  for  that  cause  ;  as  John  de  Thorp  the 
king's  clerk  has  mainperned  In  chancery  for  the  said  Eustace  to  content 
the  king  of  that  sum  upon  him  assessed  by  the  collectors  it  is  said, 
saving  to  him  his  action  at  the  common  law  for  unlawful  disturbance 
and  for  assessment  contrary  to  the  king's  commands,  if  he  will  sue 
thereupon. 

Membrane  39d. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Melton  clerk,  granting  to  William  de 
Sixtenby,  John  his  brother  and  John  Denbrigge  chaplains  and  to  their 
assigns  during  all  the  life  of  Margaret  wife  of  Edmund  de  Fritheby 
knight  a  yearly  rent  of  80  marks,  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas 
by  even  portions  of  the  said  Robert's  manor  of  Houby  co.  Leycester 
and  of  all  other  his  lands  in  the  town  of  Houby  which  he  has  by 
gift  of  the  said  Edmund,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  ;  and 
for  further  security  he  has  gixen  them  4:d.  in  name  of  seisin  thereof. 
Dated  Monday  after  Whitsunday  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27  January  this  year. 

Jan.  28.  William  Bromle    prior  of  Hurle  to  John  Smyth  of  Maydenhithe 

Westminster,  and  Rose  his  wife.  Recognisance  for  80/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in 
Berkshire. 

Writing  of  Henry  de  Leyk  of  Kensj'ngton,  being  a  grant  and 
surrender  to  John  Doget  citizen  of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of 
17  acres  of  land  in  the  fields  of  Knyghtebrigge  to  him  granted  for  life 
by  the  said  John,  10  acres  thereof  lying  in  '  Cranesfeld  '  and  7  acres  in 
the  '  Southefeld.'  Witnesses  :  John  Lorymere,  John  Lorchon, 
Thomas  atte  Rythe,  Peter  Fisshere,  Andrew  Cetlesworth,  William 
HuUe,  John  Stuket,  William  Est,  William  Cotes.  Dated  Knyghte- 
brigge, Monday  before  the  Purification  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  31  January. 

Writing  of  Peter  Stanford  chaplain,  being  a  grant  with  warranty 
to  Richard  Saumon  and  Hem'}'  atte  Wj'ke,  and  the  heirs  and  assigns  of 
the  said  Richard,  of  the  remainder  of  the  manor  of  Southcote  co. 
Berks,  now  held  for  life  by  John  atte  Ya  with  reversion  to  him  the 
said  Peter  and  to  his  heirs  by  virtue  of  a  fine  levied  in  the  king's 
court.  Witnesses :  John  de  Burton,  Thomas  de  Far^ngdon,  Robert 
de  Cherleton.     Dated  Westminster,  1  February  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  1  February. 


534  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  39ci — conl. 

Charter  of  Peter  son  of  Robert  Thebaud  of  Old  Lafiford,  giving 
with  warranty  to  Bartholomew  de  Helghweton  of  Old  Lafford  and 
Alice  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  Bartholomew 
a  messuage  in  New  Lafford  lying  in  the  east  street  between  a 
tenement  sometime  of  William  de  Folkynghara  on  the  east  and  a 
tenement  of  Agnes  who  was  wife  of  Nicholas  de  Weston  on  the  west 
and  abutting  northward  on  the  public  road,  a  messuage  in  the  same 
town  and  street  between  a  tenement  of  the  bishop  of  Lincoln  on  the 
west  and  a  tenement  of  John  Slory  on  the  east  and  abutting  south- 
ward on  the  pubUc  road,  a  messuage  in  the  said  town  lying  on  the 
north  side  of  the  '  marketstede  '  between  a  tenement  of  John  Slory 
on  the  west  and  a  tenement  of  John  Pookes  of  Roxham  on  the  east 
and  abutting  southward  on  the  '  marketstede,'  a  messuage  there  on 
the  west  side  of  the  '  marketstede  '  between  the  public  road  on  the 
north  and  a  tenement  sometime  of  John  Perun  on  the  south  and 
abuttmg  eastward  on  the  '  marketstede  '  and  westward  upon  a 
tenement  sometime  of  John  de  Haldyngham,  a  messuage  there  lying 
in  the  south  street  between  a  tenement  of  the  said  Bartholomew 
on  the  north  and  a  tenement  of  Thomas  de  Billesfeld  on  the  south 
and  abutting  westward  on  the  public  road,  a  messuage  in  the  same 
street  between  a  tenement  sometime  of  Richard  Yernmonger  on  the 
north  and  a  tenement  sometime  of  William  de  Carleton  on  the  south 
and  abutting  westward  on  the  public  road,  a  messuage  in  the  said 
town  lying  in  the  north  street  between  a  tenement  sometime  of  John 
de  Haldyngham  at  either  head  with  a  garden  thereto  pertaining 
lying  between  a  tenement  sometime  of  John  Perun  on  the  north  and 
west  and  a  tenement  of  St.  Mary's  chapel  New  Lafford  sometime  of 
John  de  Haldyngham  on  the  south  and  east,  a  messuage  in  Old 
Lafford  Ijing  between  a  tenement  of  the  bishop  of  Lincoln  on  the 
west  and  a  tenement  of  John  Spyan  on  the  east  and  abutting 
southward  on  the  public  road  and  northward  upon  land  of  the 
bishop  by  the  sheriff's  mill  (molendinum  vie'),  a  toft  in  the  same  town 
lying  between  a  tenement  of  William  '  in  the  Croftes  '  on  the  east 
and  a  tenement  of  Roger  Mason  on  the  west  and  abutting  northward 
on  the  public  road,  a  messuage  with  croft  adjacent  in  the  same  towTi 
between  a  tenement  sometime  of  Thomas  de  Sleford  on  the  west  and 
a  tenement  of  Ivo  OUyer  on  the  east  and  abutting  on  the  public  road 
at  either  head,  and  all  other  his  lands,  rents,  services,  marshes, 
meadows,  feedings  and  pastures  in  New  Lafford,  Haldyngham,  Old 
Lafford,  Queryngton,  Milnthorp,  Evedon,  Kirkeby  Laithorp, 
Grantham  and  elsewhere  in  Lincolnshire.  Witnesses  :  John  Slory, 
John  Liricok,  John  Bakester  of  Old  Lafford,  WiLliam  '  in  the  Croftes,' 
Robert  Leaute,  Thomas  Turner,  John  Skynnere,  Ralph  Whitebarne 
of  New  Lafford.     Dated  New  Lafford,  3  March  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   10  February  this  year. 

Writing  of  John  son  of  Robert  Thebaud  of  Old  Lafford  dwelling 
in  London,  being  a  quitclaim  wdth  Avarranty  to  Bartholomew  de 
Helghweton  of  Old  Lafford  and  Alice  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  and 
assigns  of  the  said  Bartholomew  of  aU  his  lands,  rents  and  services  in 
Old  Lafford,  Queryngton,  Milnthorp,  Evedon,  Kirkebylaythorp,  New 
Lafford,  Haldyngham,  Grantham  and  elsewhere  in  Lincolnshire, 
which  were  of  Robert  sometime  his  father,  of  Peter  his  brother  and 
of  him   the  said  John,  and  which    the    said    Peter    by    his    charter 


47    EDWARD    III.  536 


1373.  Membrane  3dd — corit. 

gave  them.  Witnesses  :  John  Tourse  of  London  '  draper,'  John  de 
Benyngton  of  tlie  same  '  draper,'  John  Slory  of  Old  LafTord,  William 
'  in  the  Croftes,'  John  Skvnner  of  New  Lalford,  Richard  de  Lincoln 
of  Evcdon.     Dated  Sleford,  12  March  4G  Edward  IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   10  February  this  year. 

Feb.  16.  John  Palmerc  of  Bodecleye  to  Walter  de  Clopton.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  40/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Somerset. 

William  de  Walsham  and  Geoffrey  de  Hunden  to  Roger  Boys 
knight,  Robert  de  Aisshfeld  and  William  dc  Hiengham  parson  of 
Stonham.  Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  lOOZ.,  to  be  levied  etc. 
in  Suffolk. 

Feb.  12.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.    Order  by  mainprise  of  Richard  Stanford 

Westminster,  of  London  '  dyere,'  John  de  Aungre  of  London  and  John  Clerk  of 
London  to  stay  altogether  the  execution  of  the  king's  writ  to  them 
addressed,  ordering  them  to  compel  Isabel  Castell  of  London  '  calster  ' 
to  come  before  them  and  find  mainpernors  who,  under  a  pain  to  be 
by  the  sheriffs  set  and  for  which  the  sheriffs  would  answer,  [would 
mainpern]  her  that  she  should  inflict  or  procure  no  hurt  or  harm  to 
Margery  Ramsey,  and  if  the  said  Isabel  should  refuse,  to  take  her  and 
keep  her  in  Neugate  prison  in  safe  custody  until  she  should  so  do  ; 
as  that  order  was  made  at  the  prayer  of  the  said  Margery,  averring 
that  the  said  Isabel  grievously  threatened  her  in  life  and  limbs  ;  but 
the  said  Richard,  John  and  John,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
have  mainperned  for  the  said  Isabel  under  a  pain  of  20/.  that  she 
shall  inflict  or  procure  no  bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  the  said  Margery. 

Writing  of  Richard  de  Treton  clerk,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Roger 
de  Wolferston  and  Roger  Keterych,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the 
lands,  rents  and  services  etc.  in  the  towns  of  Black  Nottele,  White 
Nottele,  Colcestre,  Lexeden  and  Bergholte  which  lately  they  jointly 
had  by  grant  of  Clement  Spice  and  Alice  his  wife  by  fine  levied  in  the 
king's  court.     Dated  London,  10  February  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   17  February. 

Membrane  ZM. 

Charter  of  W^illiam  de  Gresley  clerk,  John  Ploufeld  clerk  and  John 
Vyncent  of  London,  giA'ing  in  fee  to  John  Bernes  citizen  of  London, 
William  Mulsho  clerk,  Edward  de  Chirdestoke  clerk,  John  de  Freton 
clerk  and  Robert  Broun  {sic)  of  Warrewyk,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  the 
manor  of  Meonestoke  co.  Suthampton,  the  manors  of  Ardyngton 
and  Drayton  co.  Berkes  and  all  other  lands  in  those  towns,  the  manor 
of  Compton  Murdak  co.  Warrewyk,  the  manor  of  Bornhalle  by 
Watford  and  all  other  lands  in  the  parishes  of  Shenleye,  Aldenham, 
Parksokene  and  le  Rugge  co.  Hertford,  the  manors  of  CJonyldesbury 
and  Paljmgeswiche,  a  tenement  in  Braj^nford  and  all  other  lands, 
rents  and  services  in  the  parish  of  Fulham  co.  Middlesex  sometime  of 
John  de  North wych  goldsmith,  and  all  their  lands,  tenements  or 
messuages  in  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London  and  in  Bermoundesheye. 
Witnesses  :    William  Latymer  lord  of  Danby,  Richard  Stery  knights, 


536  CALENDAR   OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  38c? — cont. 

John    de    Beverleye,    Adam    Fraunceys,    Walter    Forester.     Dated 
Palyngeswyche,   15  January  46  Edward  IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  February  this  year. 

Writing  of  William  de  Greseleye  clerk,  being  a  quitclaim  to  John 
Ploufeld  clerk  and  John  Vyncent  of  London  of  his  right  in  all 
lands,  rents,  services,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  commons  etc. 
in  Skelton  and  in  the  forest  of  Galtrees  co.  York  whicli  were  sometime 
of  John  Scotherskelf  clerk.  Witnesses  :  William  Strete,  William  de 
Essex,  John  Sybille,  John  Dovy,  Robert  Brom  of  Warrewyk.  Dated 
Palyngeswyche,  6  February  47  Edward  IIL 

Memorandtim  of  acknowledgment,  7  February. 

Feb.  9.  Stephen    de    Whitewelle    parson    of    Herpeswelle    and    John    de 

Westminster.  Beauchamp  to  Michael  de  la  Pole  knight.       Recognisance  for  300^., 
to  be  levied,  in  default  of  pa3'ment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  and  of 
the  said  Stephen's  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Lincolnshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Charter  of  Richard  Travers  clerk,  John  de  Middelton,  John  de 
Southam,  Henry  de  Herbury,  John  Grene  clerk  and  Richard  '  be  the 
Water  '  clerk,  granting  to  Sir  Thomas  Travers  knight,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  the  reversion  of  the  manor  of  Woxindon  and  60  acres  of  land 
in  Haryngeseye  co.  Middlesex,  and  of  the  manors  of  Roughulle  and 
Halghle  and  |  20  acres  and  3  acres  of  land  f  in  Northflete  co.  Kent, 
now  held  of  them  and  the  heirs  of  the  said  John  de  Middelton  by  Maud 
who  was  wife  of  Simon  Fraunceis  in  dower  or  for  life  by  assignment 
of  the  said  Sir  Thomas  and  Alice  his  wife  by  fines  levied  in  the  king's 
court  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  in  Michaelmas  term  42  Edward 
III,  with  reversion  to  the  grantors  and  the  heirs  of  the  said  John  de 
Middelton ;  Adam  Stable  and  Robert  Hattesfeld  being  then  sheriffs  of 
London.  Witnesses  :  John  de  Stodeye,  John  dt  Sancto  Albano 
aldermen  of  the  city  of  London,  Nicholas  Brembre,  Sir  John  de 
Clynton  knight,  Sir  Thomas  de  Aldoun  knight,  Thomas  de  Shardelowe, 
Geoffrey  Gonhale  of  Derteford  co.  Kent,  John  de  Cherleton,  John 
Wroth,  Hugh  de  Greneford  of  Middlesex.  Dated  Raughulle  co. 
Kent,  31  December  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  John  de  Middelton,  10  February 
this  year. 

Feb.  12.         Brother   Cornelius    bishop   of   Artfert   in   Ireland   to   William   de 
Westminster.  Latymer  the  king's  chamberlain.     Recognisance  for  10/.,  to  be  levied, 
in  default  of  payment,  of  his  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Ireland. 

Richard  de  Stoke  by  Clare  to  John  Papenham.  Recognisance  for 
201.,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Bukinghamshire. 

Feb.  14.         WiUiam  Frost  of  Beverley  to  Nicholas  de  Spaigne  clerk.     Recog- 
Westminster.  nisance  for  16  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Yorkshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  John  Frebarn  of  Wilberham  the  elder,  being  a  general 
release  to  William  Robtot,  Richard  Denforth  clerk  and  William  Boy 


47    EDWARD    III.  537 


1373,  Membrane  38f/ — cont. 

clerk    of    all    manner    of    personal    actions.     Dated    Westminster, 
14  February  47  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   14  February. 

Writing  of  William  Burton  of  Cantebriggc  and  John  Caumpe  of 
Donyngliam,  being  a  general  release  to  William  Robtot,  Richard 
Poreforth  and  Parnell  his  wife  of  all  manner  of  personal  actions. 
Dated  Westminster,  14  February  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  14  February. 

Writing  of  Robert  Bortheyn,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to 
Walter  atte  Stone,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  7  acres  of  land  in  Souteres- 
forlong  held  of  him  b}-  the  said  Walter  for  a  term  of  20  years.  Dated 
Tuesday  before  the  Assumption  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  May  this  year. 

Charter  of  Richard  de  Clyvedon,  giving  with  warranty  to  Peter 
White  clerk,  Thomas  Xewehalle  clerk,  William  Blake  and  John 
Bekerel  and  to  the  heirs  or  assigns  of  the  said  Peter  all  his  lands  in 
la  Apse  by  Aysshulle,  and  all  his  meadow  in  Ilemore  with  the  appur- 
tenances as  in  houses,  curtilages,  gardens,  lands,  meadows,  feedings, 
pastures,  moors,  w'astes,  commons,  paths,  ways  etc.  Witnesses  : 
Richard  de  Acton,  John  Beauchamp  of  Lillesdon,  John  Strecch,  John 
Lorty  knights,  Roger  Silvej'n,  Nicholas  Bolour.  Dated  1  May 
47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  29  May. 

Membrane  31  d. 

Indenture  made  between  the  king  and  Richard  de  Acastre  of  York, 

being  a  lease  for  four  years  from  Michaelmas  last  of  the  subsidy  upon 

cloths    for    sale    in    Yorkshire,    Northumberland,    Cumberland    and 

Westmorland,  rendering  53  marks  a  year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas 

by  even  portions,   and  taking  all  cloths  forfeited  according  to  the 

statute.     Covenants    {as   above,    p.    89,   omitting   that   for   delivery   of 

forfeitures  to  the  sheriff  etc.).     Dated  Westminster,  9  March.     French. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer,  and  mainprise  of  John  de  Selby 

of  London  and  Richard  de  Thresk. 

Like  leases  are  made  to  the  following  : 

The  county  of  Suthampton  and  the  Isle  of  Wyght.  John  atte 
Yerde  for  five  years  from  Michaelmas  next,  rendering  20^ 
a  year,  and  more  if  the  subsidy  prove  of  greater  value.  Main- 
pernors :  William  Hoghton,  Edmund  Spirkoc  and  William 
Froylle  of  the  said  county.  Dated  Westminster,  1  Julj\ 
French.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  county  of  Suthampton  and  the  Isle  of  Wyght.  Hugh  Crane 
and  Thomas  Wolveleye  for  five  years  from  Michaelmas  last, 
rendering  22/.  a  year,  and  saving  to  the  king  the  forfeitures. 
Dated  Westminster,  5  December.     French. 

By   bill   of   the   treasurer,   and   mainprise   of   Edmund 

Spurcok  and  William  Froille  of  the  said  county. 

Comewaille,  Deveneshire,  Somerset,  Dorset,  Gloucestreshire  and 

Bristowe.     Thomas  Beaupyne  for  five  years  from  Michaelmas 

next,  taking  a  third  part   of  forfeitures  and  rendering   160/. 


538  CALENDAR    ()¥   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Metfihrane  31  d — amt. 

a  year.  Mainpernors  :  Walter  l)erl)y  and  John  Woderoue  of 
the  county  of  Bristowe.  Dated  Westmin.ster,  4  December. 
French.  By  bill  of  the  trea.surer. 

Cornewaille  and  Deveneshire.  The  said  Thomas  from  Michaelmas 
last  to  Michaelmas  next,  taking  a  third  part  of  forfeitures,  and 
rendering  10  marks  for  that  year.  Mainpernors  and  date 
{as  the  hM).     French.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Membrane  36(/. 

Indenture  made  between  Thomas  Beauchamp  knight  of  Bedford- 
shire and  Peter  Fauelour,  being  the  defeasance  of  a  gift  made  by 
the  said  Peter  to  the  said  Thomas,  by  writing  dated  Monday  after 
All  Saints  45  Edward  III,  of  two  thirds  of  the  manor  of  Neutone  co. 
Suffolk,  of  a  quitclaim  thereof  made  by  the  said  Peter  to  the  said 
Thomas,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  dated  Monday  after  St.  Katherine 
the  same  year,  and  of  divers  statutes  merchant  whereby  the 
said  Peter  is  bound  to  the  said  Thomas  in  divers  sums,  upon 
condition  that  the  said  Thomas,  his  heirs,  executors  and  assigns, 
shall  for  49  years  from  Michaelmas  next  peaceably  hold  and  possess 
the  premises  without  let  of  the  said  Peter  or  of  his  heirs,  saving  to 
the  said  Peter  the  advowson  of  Neuton  church,  a  third  part  of  the 
said  manor  now  held  in  dower  by  Alice  relict  of  Gregory  Fauelore, 
when  after  her  decease  it  shall  fall  in,  and  a  yearly  rent  of  20  marks 
for  the  said  two  thirds  to  be  paid  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even 
portions  to  the  said  Peter,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the  lessee  performing 
for  them  all  charges  incumbent  thereupon  ;  and  the  said  Peter  hereby 
acknowledges  the  receipt  of  the  said  rent  for  the  first  eight  years, 
reserving  power  to  distrain  if  thereafter  the  same  shall  be  in  arrear, 
and  to  enter  again  and  hold  the  premises  in  his  former  estate  if 
sufficient  distress  be  not  there  found.  Dated  London,  20  August 
46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  18  February  this 
year. 

Charter  of  Thomas  Beauchamp  kniglit  of  Bedfordshire,  granting  to 
William  Halden,  Gilbert  Champeneys,  John  Ussher  and  Thomas 
PateshuU  chaplain,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  the  estate  which  he  the 
said  Thomas  Beauchamp  has  in  the  manor  of  Neuton  co.  Suffolk. 
Dated  London,  8  February  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  18  February. 

Feb.  14.  To  the  sheriff  of  Middlesex.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Walter 
Westminster,  atte  Were  of  Fletstret  '  cordewanere,'  John  North  of  Fletstret 
'  cordewaner,'  Adam  Lowesy  of  Fletstret,  Adam  Mery  '  taillour  ' 
and  William  Moston,  by  mainprise  of  John  de  Milton,  Thomas 
Pountfract,  Thomas  Doughty  and  William  Walssh  of  London,  to 
stay  the  exigents  against  them  and  the  taking  of  their  bodies,  bringing 
this  writ  before  the  king  at  the  day  appointed  them  ;  as  their  petition 
shews  that  by  a  writ  de  judicio,  tested  by  John  de  Cavendissh  the 
chief  justice,  the  king  lately  ordered  the  sheriff  to  put  the  said  Walter 
and  the  others  in  exigents  from  county  to  county  until  outlawed 
if  they  should  not  appear,  and  if  thej^  should  appear  to  take  and  keep 
them  in  prison  in  safe  custody  so  as  to  have  their  bodies  before  the 
king  at  a  set  day  not  yet  past  to  content  the  king  for  their  ransom,  for 


47    EDWARD    III.  530 


1373.  Membrane  36rf — conl. 

that  they  had  not  Richard  Lardiner  servant  of  the  bishop  of  Bathe 
before  the  king  in  his  court  at  the  day  appointed  liini  to  answer  to  the 
king  concerning  certain  felonies  for  which  he  was  indicted,  as  they 
mainperned  liini,  and  that  by  virtue  of  the  said  writ  they  are  near 
being  outlawed  without  their  knowledge,  although  they  are  ready  to 
content  the  king  as  aforesaid  ;  and  the  said  John  de  Milton  and  the 
others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a 
pain  of  20/.  to  have  their  bodies  before  tlie  king,  and  that  before  the 
said  day  they  shall  content  him  of  their  said  ransom. 

March  4.         William  de  Kelsey  to  Matthew  de  Redemane  knight.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  32/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Lincolnshire. 

Writing  of  Matthew  de  Redemane  knight,  being  a  defeasance  of  the 
foregoing  recognisance,  upon  condition  that  William  de  Kelleseye  or 
some  one  in  his  name  shall  within  four  years  in  the  cathedral  church  of 
St.  Paul  London  pay  16/.  to  him  the  said  Matthew  or  to  his  attorney 
shewing  a  sufficient  acquittance,  his  heirs  or  executors,  to  wit  4/. 
at  Whitsuntide  next,  and  4Z.  at  every  W'hitsuntide  in  the  three  fol- 
lowing years.     Dated  London,  6  March  47  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  6  March. 

March  29.        John  Taillour  of  Ronhale  the  elder  to  Robert  de  Faryngton  clerk. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  605.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Bedfordshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

March  9.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Roger  Faucomberge 
Westminster,  and  Thomas  Ledes  of  Yorkshire  to  stay  until  the  day  the  same  is 
returnable  the  further  execution  of  the  king's  writ  de  judicio  directing 
him  to  take  the  bod}-  of  William  Grammary  son  of  John  Grammarj% 
if  a  layman,  and  keep  him  in  prison  in  safe  custody  until  he  should 
content  William  de  Boulton  of  a  debt  of  40/.,  and  to  cause  all  his 
lands  in  that  bailiwick  to  be  extended  and  delivered  to  the  said 
creditor  according  to  the  statute,  also  his  chattels,  bringing  this  writ 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  at  W'estminster  on  the  said  day  ;  as 
lately  before  Roger  de  Selby  then  mayor  of  York  and  Henry  de 
Auxiholm  then  clerk,  deputed  to  take  recognisances  for  debt  at  York 
according  to  the  statute  for  merchants  published  at  Acton  Burnel, 
the  said  William  Grammary  made  a  recognisance  to  William  de 
Boulton  for  40/.  payable  at  a  set  term  now  past,  and  the  king  issued 
the  aforesaid  writ  de  judicio  ;  but  upon  hearing  of  a  plaint  touching 
a  certain  indenture  between  the  parties  a  plea  is  pending  without 
debate  before  the  said  justices,  and  the  said  Roger  and  Thomas, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancer}-,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of 
100  marks  to  have  the  body  of  the  said  William  Grammary  before 
the  said  justices  on  the  day  named  in  order  to  stand  to  right  in  the 
premises,  and  to  content  the  said  creditor  of  that  which  shall  be 
adjudged  to  him  by  virtue  of  the  recognisance  aforesaid. 

March  12.        John  de  F\Tichyngfeld  parson  of  Branketre  to  Robert  de  Muskham 
Westminster,  clerk.     Recognisance  for  405.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Essex. 


540 


CALKNDAH    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373. 
March  23. 


Menihrane  SGd — cont. 


John  Maundour  prebendary  of  Chesewyk  in  the  church  of  St.  Paul 
Westminster.  London,  William  de  Somerby  parson  of  St.  Mary  Magdalen  Melkstrete 
London  and  John  Organ  of  London  to  Xichola.s  Carreu.  Recog- 
nisance for  20/..  to  be  levied  etc.  of  their  lands  and  chattels  and  of  the 
ecclesiastical  goods  of  the  said  prebendary  and  parson  in  the  city  of 
London. 

Defeasance  thereof,  upon  condition  that  the  said  John,  William 
and  John  pay  10/.  at  Midsummer  next. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

March  22.        Thomas  de  Stapilton  to  Brian  de  Stapilton  knight.  Recognisance 
Westminster,  for   1,000   marks,   to    be   levied   etc.    of   his   lands    and   chattels   in 
Yorkshire. 

Membrane  3od. 

March  22.  To  the  sheriff  of  Suffolk.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  William 
Westminster.  Osemond  "  cordewaner,'  b}'  mainprise  of  William  Dymenel,  Thomas 
de  Boston.  Simon  de  Overton  and  Adam  de  Norwich  of  London,  to 
stay  the  further  publication  of  the  exigents  against  him  and  the  taking 
of  his  body  ;  as  lately  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff 
to  put  the  said  William  Osemond  in  exigents  from  county  to  county 
until  outlawed  if  he  should  not  appear,  and  if  he  should  appear  to 
take  him  so  as  to  have  his  body  before  the  king's  justices  at  West- 
minster in  the  octaves  of  Trinity  to  answer  John  Berard  concerning 
a  debt  and  detenue  of  62.s.  ;  and  by  another  like  writ  the  king  ordered 
the  sheriff  likewise  to  have  his  body  there  on  the  same  day  to  answer 
Geoffrey  Damet  concerning  an  alleged  debt  and  detenue  of  11.  lOs.  lOd. ; 
and  his  petition  shews  that  he  is  ready  so  to  answer  and  stand  to  right 
in  all  things,  and  the  said  mainpernors,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
have  mainpernod  under  a  pain  of  20  marks  to  have  his  body  before  the 
said  justices  at  the  day  named. 

To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Like  order,  mutatis  mutandis,  upon  the 
petition  of  Thomas  Moraunt  of  Kent ;  as  lately  by  writ  de  judicio 
the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  put  him  in  exigents  from  busting  to 
busting,  and  if  he  should  appear  to  take  him,  so  as  to  have  his  body 
before  the  king's  justices  at  W^estminster  in  the  quinzaine  of  Trinity 
to  answer  Henry  (sic)  Bege  of  London  concerning  an  alleged  debt  and 
detenue  of  405.  ;  and  Henry  Frowyk  and  Roger  Abbot  of  London, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery- ,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of 
100s.  to  have  his  body  before  the  justices  at  the  day  named. 

Like  writ  in  favour  of  John  Ingajiie  of  Cambridgeshire,  who  is 
put  in  exigents  at  the  suit  of  Hervey  Begge  of  London  for  a  debt  of  6/. ; 
mainpernors,  Robert  de  Staunton  of  Notynghamshire,  Rejoiold 
Borel  and  William  Smert  of  Cambridgeshire  and  Robert  Goldesburgh 
of  London  under  a  pain  of  10  marks. 

Charter  of  Robert  de  Swyllyngton  the  younger  knight,  giving 
with  warranty  to  Robert  de  SwA'Uyngton  knight  his  uncle,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  his  manor  of  Pirnawe  co.  Northfolch  with  appurtenances, 
rendering  yearly  to  the  grantor  or  to  his  assigns  during  his  life  14/.  at 
Whitsuntide  and  Martinmas  bj"  even  portions,  power  being  reserved  to 
the  grantor  and  his  assigns  to  distrain  for  arrears  after  40  days.  Dated 
the  manor  of  Savo}'  by  the  city  of  London.  21  March  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  23  March. 


47    EDWAKT)    III. 


Ul 


1373.  Membrane  35rf — cont. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Swyllyngton  the  younger  knight,  being  a  letter 
of  attorney  to  Thomas  atte  Yate  rector  of  Blacsale  and  .John  Ueusbury 
to  deUver  to  Sir  Robert  de  Swiilyngton  knight  his  uncle  seisin  of  the 
manor  of  Pyrnawe  co.  Xorthfolch  according  to  his  charter  indented. 
Dated  [as  the  last). 

Mernoravdum  of  acknowledgment,  24  March. 

March  21.  To  Henry  de  Percy  and  his  fellows  justices  appointed  to  preserve 
Westminster,  the  peace  in  the  Estrithyng  in  Yorkshire.  Order,  upon  the  petition 
of  Robert  Edward  of  Hakeneys.  by  mainprise  of  Alan  de  Ake  clerk, 
William  de  Ferib}-  and  William  Hundegate  to  stay  altogether  the 
further  execution  of  the  king's  writ  against  him  ;  as  his  petition  shews 
that  at  the  suit  of  John  Doweson  of  Hakeneys,  untruly  averring  that 
the  said  Robert  threatened  him  grievously  in  life  and  limbs,  the  said 
justices  according  to  their  commission  commanded  him  to  be  taken 
and  arested  and  committed  to  prison,  unless  he  might  find  mainpernors 
willing  to  mainpern  for  him  under  a  set  pain  to  be  laid  upon  them 
that  he  should  not  by  himself  or  by  his  procurement  do  hurt  or  harm 
to  the  said  John's  body,  praying  for  remedy  ;  and  the  said  Alan, 
William  and  William,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned 
for  the  said  Robert  under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  be  levied  in  case  he  shall  do 
or  procure  hurt  or  harm  as  aforesaid. 

March  24.  To  William  de  Latymer  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden 
We.stminster.  of  the  Cinque  Ports,  or  to  his  lieutenant  there.  Order,  upon  the 
petition  of  the  men  of  the  town  of  Stonore  by  Sandewic.  to  stay  until 
three  weeks  after  Easter  next  the  levying  of  the  portion  falling  upon 
them  of  the  subsidy  last  granted  to  the  king  of  116s.  of  every  parish 
of  England,  restoring  any  distress  made  for  that  cause  ;  as  their 
petition  shews  that  the  said  constable  or  lieutenant  has  assessed  them 
thereto  \\  ith  the  men  of  the  town  of  Sandewic  as  if  the  town  of  Stonore 
were  within  the  said  liberty,  which  it  is  not,  and  is  unlawfully  causing 
them  to  be  distrained  and  troubled  for  a  second  payment  of  the  portion 
assessed  upon  them,  although  in  the  42nd  year  of  the  reign  in  a  plaint 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  between  the  abbot  of  St.  Augustine 
Canterbury  and  Thomas  Crabbere  and  others  concerning  an  alleged 
trespass  at  the  town  of  Stonore,  it  was  found  that  the  same  town  is 
in  the  county  of  Kent  and  parcel  of  the  barony  of  St.  Augustine 
Canterbury  and  without  the  limits  of  the  Cinque  Ports,  and  although 
the  men  thereof  ha\e  paid  the  portion  of  the  said  subsidy  falling  upon 
them  with  the  commons  of  Kent,  praying  for  remedy  ;  and  being 
not  fullv  informed  whether  their  said  averment  contains  the  truth, 
the  king  has  given  them  respite  of  the  said  portion  until  three  weeks 
after  Easter  next,  in  order  that  they  may  in  the  mean  time  certify 
him  in  chancer}'  concerning  that  record,  and  being  so  certified  the 
king  will  do  what  is  lawful  in  that  behalf. 


Writing  of  Thomas  Cook  clerk,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Nicholas  de 
Carreu  the  elder,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Kersalton,  a 
messuage,  300  acres  of  land,  6  acres  of  meadow,  40  acres  of  pasture 
and  QOs.  of  rent  in  Kersalton  and  Miccham  which  the  said  Nicholas 
has  in  seisin  and  possession  for  the  life  of  Joan  wife  of  Richard 
Claypol  by  demise  of  the  said  Richard  and  Joan.     Witnesses  :  Robert 


542 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373. 


Membrane  35</ — conl. 


prior    of    Merton,    Peter    atte    Wode,    William    Xeudegate,     Dated 
Kersalton,  24  March  47   Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  March. 

Writing  of  Henry  son  and  heir  of  Mark  Husee  son  and  heir  of  Henry 
Husee  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  William  de  Wykeham 
bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Elynge  and 
Wyndesore  co.  Suthampton  lately  held  for  life  by  Hugh  Camoys  knight 
of  the  heritage  of  the  said  Henry  by  demise  of  his  said  grandfather. 
Witnesses  :  Thomas  West,  Ralph  Norton,  Peter  Escudemour  knights, 
Walter  Hay  wode,  Henry  Popham.  Michael  Skillyng,  Thomas  Warenner, 
William  Rvngebourne,  William  Hoghton,  Henry  Watford.  Dated 
20  March  47  Edward  IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  21  March. 

April  10.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London  or  Dovorre. 
Westminster.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Richard  de  Toppeclyf,  to  suffer  him  in  one 
of  those  ports  to  pass  towards  foreign  parts,  any  command  to  them 
previously  addressed  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding  ;  as  he  has 
prayed  licence  so  to  do  for  furtherance  of  certain  business  of  Robert 
bishop  of  Coventre  and  Lichfield  there,  and  the  king  has  granted  licence 
because  John  Fauconer  of  Lej'cestershire  and  William  Newehaghe  of 
Lincolnshire,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under 
a  pain  of  100/.  in  case  he  shall  attempt  or  procure  aught  to  the 
prejudice  of  the  king  or  crown. 

April  28.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk  and  Suffolk.  Order  for  particular  causes 
Westminster,  on  sight  of  these  presents  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  on  the 
king's  behalf  forbidding  any  man  native  or  alien  of  whatsoever  estate 
or  condition  until  further  order  under  pain  of  forfeiture  to  depart  to 
any  foreign  parts  without  the  king's  special  licence,  well  known  merchants 
excepted  ;  for  it  is  the  king's  will  that  they  shall  pass  thither  to  ply 
their  traffic. 

[Foedera.] 

The  like  to  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln. 

[Ibid.] 

Membrane  ZAd. 
Charter  indented  of  John  de  Bentele  parson  of  Chelsfeld  co.  Kent, 
giving  with  warranty  to  William  Frost  of  Beverley  and  Margaret  his 
wife  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  for  lack  of  such  issue  to  the 
right  heirs  of  the  said  William,  his  manor  of  Seton  in  Spaldyngmore 
CO.  York,  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services  of  free  tenants  and  neifs  and 
all  that  goes  with  them,  advowsons  of  churches,  and  reversions  of 
tenants  for  life  and  in  dower  w^hen  they  shall  fall  in,  in  the  manor, 
town  and  fields  of  Seton,  all  the  lands  which  Thomas  de  Bentelee 
knight  lately  had  by  demise  of  John  de  Grysley  knight  in  that  town 
excepted,  to  hold  with  remainder  as  aforesaid  rendering  to  the  said 
John  [de  Bentele]  for  life  lOO.s.  a  year  in  the  church  of  St.  Paul  London 
in  the  quinzaines  of  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  and 
doing  the  services  due  and  of  right  accustomed  to  the  chief  lords 
of  the  fee,  power  being  reserved  to  distrain  for  arrears,  and  to  enter 
and  hold  the  premises  to  the  grantor  and  his  heirs  if  the  rent  be  in 
arrear  for  one  half  year  ;    and  when  it  shall  be  that  Joan  who  was 


47    EDWARD    III.  543 


1373.  Membrane  Md—cont. 

wife  of  the  said  Thomas  sIkiH  reco\(>r  her  dower  of  the  premises, 
nevertheless  the  grantees  shall  of  the  residue  be  bound  to  pay  the 
whole  of  the  said  rent  to  the  grantor  for  his  life,  but  if  Nicholas  Bond 
knight  and  Beatrice  his  wife,  or  the  said  Beatrice  after  her  husband's 
death,  shall  by  distraint  or  otherwise  levy  any  rent  thereof,  it  shall  be 
lawful  for  the  grantees  to  withhold  so  much  of  the  said  rent  of  IOO5. 
as  they  are  set  to  pay  to  the  said  Nicholas  and  Beatrice  or  to  the  said 
Beatrice  ;  pro\  ided  tliat  the  above  warranty  shall  not  extend  to  action 
for  dower  at  the  suit  of  the  said  Joan.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Roger  Lasceles 
knight,  William  de  Crauncewyk,  Thomas  Saltemerssh,  John  Cardoyll, 
John  Pottowe.  John  Conestable.  Robert  Sturmy.  Dated  Seton, 
Monday  the  feast  of  St.  Valentine  1372,  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,   16  February. 

Writing  of  John  Holt,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Richard  Lescrope  knight 
and  his  heirs  of  the  manor  of  Thornton  Styward  co.  York.  Dated 
London,  12  February  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   IG  February. 

Writing  of  Henr}'  son  and  heir  of  Mark  Husee  son  and  heir  of  Henry 
Huse  knight,  granting  that  the  manor  of  Elynge  and  Wyndesore  co. 
Suthampton,  now  held  for  life  of  his  heritage  by  Hugh  Camoys 
knight  by  demise  of  the  said  Henry  Husee  knight  with  reversion 
to  the  grantor  his  cousin  and  heir,  sliall  after  the  said  Hugh's  death 
remain  to  Wykeham  {sic)  bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
with  clause  of  warrant}'.  Witnesses  :  Luke  de  Ponynges,  Bernard 
Brocas,  Philip  de  Popham  knights,  Henry  Sturmy,  .John  de  Warb- 
lynton,  Henrv  Popham,  Richard  Pauncefot.  Dated  10  March 
46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  15  February  this  year. 

W^riting  indented  of  John  son  and  heir  of  John  Husee  brother  and 
heir  of  Roger  Husee  knight,  reciting  a  grant  made  by  John  his  father 
to  William  de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  a  yearly  rent  of  40  marks  to  be  taken  of  his  manor  of  Berton  8acy 
CO.  Suthampton  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  as  security 
for  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Mourton  and  certain  lands  in  Pydele 
Turbervylle  co.  Dorset  late  of  his  said  father,  to  be  held  by  the  said 
bishop,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  with  covenant  that  his  said  father  should 
attorn  himself  to  any  assignee  of  the  bishop  to  whom  by  writing  the 
bishop  should  give  the  said  rent  according  to  an  indenture  between 
the  parties  made  and  enrolled  in  chancery,  which  writing  is  dated 
Berton  Sacy,  15  February  44  Edward  III  ;  reciting  also  a  writing 
indented  whereby  the  said  bishop  gave  the  said  rent  to  Walter 
Frompton  and  Margaret  his  wife,  being  his  assignees  of  the  said 
manor,  advowson  and  lands  in  Pudele  Turberville.  and  to  the  heirs 
and  assigns  of  the  said  Margaret,  under  the  form  and  condition  by  the 
aforesaid  indenture  specified  ;  and  being  an  attornment  by  the  said 
John  the  son  to  the  said  Walter  and  Margaret,  after  viewing  the 
bishop's  said  grant  to  them,  hereby  putting  them  in  seisin  of  the  said 
rent  by  payment  of  \d.  under  the  same  form  and  condition  as  the  said 
bishop  had  seisin  thereof.  Witnesses  :  W'alter  Haywode,  William 
W^orfton,     William     Perle,     William     Hoghton,     Michael     SkylljTig, 


544  CALENDAR    (JF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  34'/ — coui. 

Joliii   Frampton.     Dated   Berton    Sacy,   Monday    before    All    Saints 
46  Edward  IIL 

Memorandum,  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  15  February  this 
year. 

Writing  of  John  Michel  citizen  of  London,  being  a  grant  and  sale 
to  Robert  prior  of  St.  Mary  Merton  and  the  convent  and  to  their 
successors  of  all  the  lands  which  were  of  Henry  del  Strete  in  the 
towns  and  parishes  of  Mychani  and  Mordon  co.  Surrey  on  6  October 
31  Edward  III,  on  which  day  the  said  Henry  and  Thomas  del  Strete 
his  son,  before  Adam  Fraunceys  then  mayor  of  the  staple  of 
Westminster  and  therein  deputed  to  take  recognisances  of  debts, 
made  to  him  the  said  John  and  to  John  de  Com'ngton  clerk  a  joint 
and  several  recognisance  for  186/.  payable  in  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary 
then  next,  which  lands  upon  suit  of  the  said  John  Michel  for  execution 
of  the  said  recognisance  for  that  the  said  Thomas  and  Henry  paid 
them  not  the  said  sum,  were  by  the  sheriff  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ 
delixered  by  extent  to  the  said  John  and  John  and  to  their  assigns, 
to  hold  as  their  freehold  until  contented  of  the  said  sum  and  of  their 
damages  and  costs,  as  the  said  prior  and  convent  have  fully  paid  the 
same  to  him  the  said  John  Michel,  and  his  damages  and  costs  in  regard 
to  the  said  suit  and  execution ;  and  warranty  of  the  premises  as  if  he 
the  said  John  had  held  the  same  in  his  own  hand,  until  the  said  prior 
and  convent  be  contented  as  aforesaid  in  recompense  of  the  debt  to 
him  paid.  Witnesses  :  Nicholas  de  Carreu,  Peter  atte  Wode,  W^illiam 
de  Neudegate,  William  Husee,  John  Olyver  the  younger.  Dated 
Merton,  Friday  after  St.  Gregory  the  Pope  47  Edward  III. 

Mevnorandnm  of  acknowledgment,  18  March. 

March  19.  To  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Battle.  Request  to  admit  William 
Westminster.  Henand  the  king's  serjeant  to  their  house,  and  to  minister  to  him  for 
life  the  maintenance  called  the  '  kyngespot  '  in  Battle  abbey  in  the 
same  manner  as  to  Gerard  le  Wayte  in  his  life  time  at  the  king's  request, 
making  him  letters  patent  sealed  with  the  seal  of  their  house  with 
mention  of  that  which  he  shall  so  receive  of  them,  for  which  the  king  will 
be  specially  bound  to  them,  and  writing  again  by  the  bearer  what  they 
will  do  at  this  request  ;  as  the  king  has  thought  fit  to  send  the  said 
William  to  them,  willing  to  make  fitting  pro\asion  for  his  main- 
tenance. By  p.s.  [29603.] 

Membrane  ZZd. 

March  20.  To  the  sheriff  of  Bukingham.  Order,  by  mainprise  of  John  de  Stone 
Westminster,  of  Aylesbury  of  Bukinghamshire  and  Robert  Henr}',  Ralph  Rothyng 
and  John  Passelewe  '  cordewaner  '  of  the  cit}'  of  London,  to  stay 
altogether  the  further  publication  of  the  exigents  against  John  Draper 
of  Aylesbury,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  at  Westminster 
at  the  days  the  exigents  are  returnable  ;  as  the  said  John  Draper  is 
put  in  exigents  in  that  county  to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came  not 
before  the  said  justices  to  answer  Robert  Barbour  of  Esclaydon 
concerning  an  alleged  trespass,  and  to  answer  Henry  de  Mursle  as  to 
rendering  the  said  Henry  an  account  for  the  time  that  he  was  receiver 
of  the  said  Henry's  moneys,  being  altogether  without  knowledge  of 
that  process  it  is  said  ;  and  he  has  prayed  the  king  for  a  stay,  as  he 
is  ready  so  to  answer  them  and  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;   and 


47   EDWARD    in.  545 


1373.  Membrane  33d — cont. 

the  said  John  de  Stone  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
have  inainperned  under  a  pain  of  20Z.  to  have  his  body  before  the  said 
justices  at  the  days  mentioned. 

To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Like  order,  by  mainprise  of  WilHam 
de  Feryby  and  William  de  Hundgate  of  Yorkshire,  in  favour  of  John 
IJrice  of  Little  Jernonnith  ;  as  lately  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king 
ordered  the  sheriffs  to  put  the  said  John  in  exigents  from  busting  to 
busting  until  outlawed  if  he  should  not  appear,  and  if  he  should  appear 
to  take  him  and  keej)  him  in  safe  custody  so  as  to  have  his  bod^'  before 
the  justices  at  Westminster  fifteen  days  after  Trinity  to  answer  William 
Baret  citizen  and  merchant  of  London  concerning  an  alleged  debt  of 
50/.  ;  and  the  said  John  has  prayed  the  king  for  a  sta}^  as  he  is  read}'  so 
to  answer  etc.,  and  the  said  mainpernors  have  mainperned  under  a 
pain  of  251.  etc.  (as  above). 

To  the  same.  Like  order,  by  mainprise  of  William  Home  of  Kent 
and  William  Fraunceys  of  London,  in  favour  of  John  Colkyng'  of  Kent 
the  elder  ;  as  lately  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff 
to  put  him  in  exigents  (as  above),  to  have  his  body  in  the  octaves 
of  St.  John  Baptist  to  answer  Thomas  de  Ware  of  London  '  iremongere  ' 
concerning  the  rendering  of  an  account  for  the  time  that  he  was 
receiver  of  the  moneys  of  the  said  Thomas  ;  and  the  said  John  has 
prayed  the  king  for  a  stay,  as  he  is  ready  so  to  answer  and  to  stand 
to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  William  and  William  have 
mamperned  under  a  pain  of  lOOs.  etc.  {as  above). 

April  7.  To  the  sheriff  of  Hertford.     Order,  upon   the  petition  of  John  de 

Westminster.  Carleton  of  Berkhamstede,  by  mainprise  of  John  Costantyn  and 
Hugh  Cook  of  London,  to  stay  the  further  publication  of  the  exigents 
against  him  and  the  taking  of  his  body,  bringing  this  writ  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  the  day  a  writ  de  judicio  against  him  at  the 
suit  of  William  Bartelot  chaplain  is  returnable ;  as  his  petition  shews 
that  the  said  chaplain  is  impleading  him  before  the  said  justices  for 
17  marks  8^.,  that  b}'  the  said  writ  de  judicio  he  is  put  in  exigents 
in  the  said  county  to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came  not  before 
the  said  justices  to  answer  concerning  the  premises,  and  that  he  is 
ready  so  to  ansAver  and  stand  to  riglit  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said 
John  Costantyn  and  Hugh  have  mainperned  in  chancer}^  under  a  pain 
of  20  marks  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  on  the  day  mentioned. 

Writing  of  John  Blaunche  citizen  and  vintner  of  London,  being  a 
quitclaim  to  Joan  w  ho  was  wife  of  John  Devenyssh  citizen  and  skinner 
of  London,  her  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a  messuage,  340  acres  of  land, 
6  acres  of  meadow.  20  acres  of  pasture,  25  acres  of  wood  and  605. 
of  rent  in  Ehneden.     Dated  2  April  47  Edward  IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  11  April. 

March  3.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Simon  Watford, 
Westminster.  John  Gloucestre,  Thomas  de  Bukyngham  and  Thomas  Hanney  of 
Musenden  of  Bukinghamshire,  to  stay  the  further  execution  of  a  writ 
de  judicio  to  him  lately  addressed,  ordering  him  at  the  suit  of  John 
de  Welbourne,  Geoffrey  Lescrope,  Thomas  de  Sutton,  John  de  Belvere 
and  John  de  Warsop  canons  of  St.  Mary  Lincoln  to  put  Hugh  de  Stretle 

CB  35 


546  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  33d — cont. 

in  exigents  from  county  to  county  until  outlawed  if  he  should 
not  appear,  and  if  he  should  a})pear  to  take  him  and  keep  him  in  safe 
custody  so  as  to  have  his  body  before  the  justices  at  Westmijister  in 
the  octaves  of  St.  John  Baptist  next  to  answer  the  said  canons  con- 
cerning an  alleged  debt  of  41/.,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  said  justices 
on  the  day  mentioned  ;  as  the  said  Hugh  has  prayed  the  king  for  a 
stay,  seeing  that  he  is  ready  so  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all 
things,  and  the  said  Simon  and  the  others  have  mainperned  in  chancery 
under  a  ])ain  of  411.  to  have  liim  before  the  said  justices  at  that  day. 

Writing  of  Francis  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Enefelde  of  Middlesex, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  Wroth  the  elder  citizen  of 
London  and  Margaret  his  wife,  mother  of  the  said  Francis,  and  to  the 
heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  John  Wroth,  of  three  messuages,  two 
carucates  of  land,  90  acres  of  meadow,  20  acres  of  pasture,  40  acres 
of  wood  and  28/.  of  rent  in  Enefelde  and  Edelmetone,  hereby  acknow- 
ledging that  the  said  John  Wroth  and  Margaret  are  at  this  date  fully 
seised  of  the  premises,  and  that  this  writing  is  good  and  sufficient  .so 
that  he  the  said  Francis  nor  his  heirs  may  not  in  time  to  come  make 
void  or  annul  the  same  by  any  exception,  allegation,  answer  or  plea 
whatsoever.  Witnesses  :  Thomas  Fro^yk,  Jolni  Wroth  tlie  younger, 
Jordan  de  Elsynge,  William  Whelere,  Richard  Maundevyle,  William 
Pj'mme,  John  Goldyng.  Dated  Enefeld,  Tuesday  before  St.  Tiburcius 
and  St.  Valerianus  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  12  April. 

April  16.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Richard 
Westminster.  Ryal  and  Alexander  Besford  of  Worcestershire  to  stay  the  further 
publication  of  the  exigents  against  John  Roger  and  Robert  Roger, 
and  the  taking  of  their  bodies  ;  as  lately  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king 
ordered  the  sheriff  to  put  the  said  John  and  Robert  in  exigents  from 
county  to  county  until  outlawed  if  they  should  not  appear,  and  if 
they  should  appear  to  take  them  and  keep  them  in  safe  custody  so 
as  to  have  their  bodies  before  the  king  in  the  octaves  of  St.  John 
Baptist  to  answer  as  well  to  the  king  as  to  Warin  Lucien  knight  upon 
a  plea  wherefore  being  lateh'  servants  of  the  said  Warin  retained  in 
his  service  at  Brokhole  in  contempt  of  the  king  and  contrary  to  the 
ordinance  they  withdrew  from  that  service  before  the  term  agreed 
without  reasonable  cause  and  licence  of  the  said  Warin,  whereas  for  the 
common  weal  order  is  made  by  the  king  and  council  that  any  servant 
so  withdrawing  shall  undergo  the  pain  of  imprisonment ;  and  now 
they  have  prayed  the  king  for  a  stay,  as  thej'^  are  ready  to  answer 
the  said  Warin,  and  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said 
Richard  and  Alexander,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  main- 
perned under  a  pain  of  10/.  to  have  their  bodies  before  the  king  at  the 
octaves  aforesaid. 

April  16.         Thomas  de  Salesbury  knight  to  W^illiam  Baret  citizen  and  merchant 
Westminster,  of  London.     Recognisance  for  200/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Palmer,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to 
Thomas  Travers  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands,  rents 


47    EDWARD    III.  547 


1373.  Membrane  33d — cont. 

and  services  in    Birchyngbury  co.  Warwik  by  him    lately  purchased 
of  the  said  Thomas  Palmer.     Witnesses  :    John  de  Middelton,  John 
Catesby,  John  Michel.     Dated  London,  2  May  47  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  May. 

May  2.  Thomas  Cobberley,  son  and  heir  of  Joan  who  yfaa  wife  of  William 

Westminster.  Wliityngton,  to  Robert  de  Muskham  clerk.  Recogni.sance  for  QOs., 
to  be  levied,  in  default  of  pajment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Gloucestershire. 

Defeasance  thereof,  on  condition  that  the  said  Thomas  pay  30s. 
at  Midsummer  next. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  William  de  Braham,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to 
Sir  Adam  de  Hautbo3^s  parson  of  Salle,  Sir  John  de  Pieshale  parson 
of  Causton,  Reynold  de  Eccles,  Sir  John  de  Brathwayt  par.son  of 
Bonewelle,  Thomas  atte  Ook,  Robert  Aisshfeld  and  Sir  Luke  de  Stookes 
parson  of  Marlisford,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Boken- 
hamferie  with  the  advowsons  of  Bokenhamferio  and  Asingham,  and 
all  other  lands  late  of  Sir  John  de  Ratlisden  knight  in  the  hundreds 
of  Blofold  and  Walsham.  Dated  Bokenhamferie,  Sunday  the  feast 
of  St.  Philip  and  St.  James  47  Edward  III. 

Memoraiuhim  of  acknowledgment,  10  May. 

Membrane  32d. 

Charter  of  Thomas  Latymer  knight  lord  of  Braybrok,  giving  with 
warranty  to  William  de  Northwode  parson  of  Anderby  and  John  de 
Middelton  parson  of  Wardon,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  his  castle  of 
Braybrok  and  all  other  his  lands,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  rents 
and  services  of  his  tenants  etc.  in  Braybrok,  and  the  advowson  of  the 
church  of  that  town.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Robert  de  Holand,  Ralph 
Basset  of  Weldon,  Sir  Thomas  fitz  Walter,  Sir  John  de  Seyton  knights, 
Sir  Thomas  parson  of  Dyngele,  Sir  Richard  parson  of  Lubenliam. 
Dated  Braybrok,  W^ednesdav  before  the  Conversion  of  St.  Paul 
44  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  May  this  year. 

May  5.  Richard  de  Hatton  prior  of  New  Abbey  by  Alburbury  to  John  Cooke 

Westminster,  of  Lejcestre  and   William  de  Dalby.     Recognisance  for  301.,  to   be 

levied,    in    default    of    payment,    of    his    lands    and    chattels    and 

ecclesiastical  goods  in  Salop. 

« 

William  del  Hoo  knight  to  Godfrey  Roos  knight  and  John 
Stretherne.  Recognisance  for  56Z.  135.  4c/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Norflfolk. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  John. 

Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  under  a  pain  of  40L  for  Robert 
Trowithy  clerk,  made  6  May  this  year  by  Robert  Frenshe  and  Thomas 
Polsaght  of  Devon,  appearing  in  person  in  chancer}^  that  he  shall 
not  depart  to  any  foreign  parts  without  the  king's  licence,  nor  attempt 
aught  that  may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  his  people. 


548  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  32c? — cont. 

Indenture  made  between  Henry  Lescrope  knight  and  Adam  son 
and  heir  of  William  de  Thorp  knight  of  Notynghamshire,  being  a 
lease  to  the  said  Sir  Henry  and  to  his  heirs  during  the  said  Adam's 
life  of  all  manors,  lands  etc.  in  Yorkshire  of  the  said  Henry's  heritage 
which  the  said  Adam  held  by  the  courtesy  of  England  after  the  death 
of  Maud  his  wife  or  otherwise  for  life,  rendering  yearly  to  him  the  said 
Adam  20/.  at  Muskham  by  Newerk  at  Whitsuntide  and  Martinmas 
by  even  portions,  power  being  reserved  to  the  said  Adam  to  distrain 
for  arrears  in  the  premises  and  in  all  the  said  Henrj''s  lands  in 
Muskham  and  Carleton  by  Xevverk,  and  for  greater  security  power 
to  eiiter  again  and  hold  the  premises  for  life  in  his  former  estate  if  the 
said  rent  be  in  arrear  for  one  tjuarter  of  a  year  after  any  term. 
Covenant  by  Sir  Henry  that  the  said  Adam  shall  be  quit  of  all  action 
for  waste  in  any  of  the  same  lands  before  the  date  of  these  presents. 
Dated  York,  1  May  47  Edward  IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  5  May. 

May  4.  Richard  Cleobury  to  William  Auncell.     Recognisance  for  100  marks, 

Westminster,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  paj-ment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Wiltesir. 

May  6.  Gilbert  de  Sutton  to  Roger  de  Navenby  of  Dunham.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for    340    marks    payable    by    instalments  ;     to    be    levied    etc.    in 
Notynghamshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

Roger  de  Navenby  of  Dunham  to  Gilbert  de  Sutton.  Recognisance 
for  170  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  as  above. 

Indenture  made  between  Roger  de  Navenby  and  Gilbert  de  Sutton, 
being  a  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance  for  340  marks,  upon 
condition  that  the  said  Gilbert  or  some  other  in  his  name  shall  pay 
the  said  Roger  170  marks,  namely  42  marks  3s.  4rZ.  at  every  of  the 
terms  therein  contained  ;  and  likewise  of  the  foregoing  recognisance 
for  170  marks,  upon  condition  that  Michael  de  Ravendale  clerk  and 
Hugh  de  Mitford  and  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  Michael  shall 
peaceably  hold  seven  messuages,  one  carucate  and  20  acres  of  land, 
4  acres  of  wood,  6  acres  of  heath,  6(Z.  of  rent  and  a  rent  of  1/6.  pepper 
yearly  in  Thornagh  without  trouble  by  reason  of  any  statute  merchant, 
recognisance  or  yearly  rent  made  or  acknowledged  by  the  said  Roger 
or  any  of  his  ancestors,  or  of  any  process  by  writ  of  formedon  to  be 
hereafter  obtained,  but  if  by  reason  thereof  all  the  premises  shall  be 
recovered  out  of  the  hands  of  the  said  Michael  and  Hugh  or  of  the 
heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  Michael  that  recognisance  shall  remain 
wholly  in  force,  and  if  any  part  shall  be  so  recovered  the  same  shall 
remain  in  force  up  to  the  value  of  the  tenements  so  recovered,  provided 
that  the  said  tenants  shall  use  lawful  diligence  in  the  defence  thereof. 
Dated  Holburne  in  the  suburb  of  London,  6  May  47  Edward  IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  6  May. 

Writing  of  William  Whiteman  of  London  '  w^ebbe,'  being  a  quit- 
claim with  warranty  to  Roger  Parker  of  Brendewode,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  a  messuage  and  40  acres  of  land  in  the  town  of  Moorton  with 
all  their  rights,  to  wit  wards,  reliefs,  heriots,  escheats,  rents  etc. 
Witnesses  :     Roger   Germayn,   John   Spencer,    John   Whelere,   John 


47    EDWARD    III.  549 


1373.  Membrane  32rf — cont. 

atte  Persounes,  John  de  Kent.     Dated  London,  Monday  after  the 
Invention  of  Holy  Cross  47  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  9  May. 

Maj'  9.  The  abbot  of  Xeubo  to  William  de  Boughbrigge  clerk  and  William 

Westminster,  de  Mirfeld  clerk.  Recognisance  for  10/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in 
Lincolnshire. 

Thomas  de  Bello  Campo  earl  of  Warrewyk,  William  de  Bello  Campo 
knight,  William  de  Burton  knight,  Richard  de  Piryton  clerk,  John  de 
Harrewodc  clerk.  Joini  master  of  the  hospital  of  St.  John  Baptist 
Xorhampton  and  Henry  de  Arderne  to  Ricliard  earl  of  Arundell  and 
Surrey.  Recognisance  for  2,000  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  their 
lands  and  chattels  in  Warwickshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

The  said  carl  of  Warrewyk  and  the  others  above  named  to  Richard 
earl  of  Arundell  and  Surrey.     Like  recognisance  for  1,000  marks. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

May  8.  James    Reygate    of    Yorkshire    to    Hugh    Glen    of    Leycestershire. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  80  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Yorkshire. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon  condition 
that  Hugh  de  Glen  and  Thomas  Boye  of  Blaby,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
shall  peaceably  hold  all  the  lands,  rents,  reversions,  services  etc.  in 
Blaby  and  Cuntasthorp  which  the  said  Hugh  and  Thomas  have  of 
the  feoffment  w  ith  ^^•arranty  of  James  de  Reygate  of  Yorkshire  without 
loss  of  any  parcel  thereof  by  action  sued  upon  true  title  before  the  said 
feoffment,  or  that  in  case  thev  be  impleaded  concerning  the  premises  or 
any  parcel  of  them  by  action  founded  on  such  title,  and  the  said  James  or 
his  heirs  be  vouched  to  warranty,  and  the  premises  or  parcel  of  them  be 
lost,  and  execution  sued,  the  said  James  or  his  heirs  shall  have  lands 
of  fee  simple  whereupon  execution  may  be  made  to  the  value  thereof. 
Dated  Westminster,  Tuesday  after  St.  John  '  Portlatyne  '  47  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  11  May. 

Writing  of  John  de  Agmondesham,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  William  de  Wykeham  bishop  of  ^^'inchester  and  William  de  Mulsho 
clerk,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands,  woods,  rents  etc.  in 
the  town  and  parish  of  Stoke  Pogeys  co.  Bukingham  called 
CosjTieslond  and  5licheleslond  sometime  acquired  of  Joffn  atte  Glorye 
the  younger  by  him  the  said  John,  of  him  likewise  acquired  by  Richard 
de  Chestrefeld  and  others,  and  after  acquired  of  them  by  the  said 
bishop  and  William  de  Mulsho.  Witnesses  :  Richard  de  la  Bataille, 
John  de  Wexham.  William  Lambard,  Henry  Olyver,  John  Brokhurst 
the  younger.     Dated  Wexham,  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  11  Maj. 

Membrane  'ild. 
Indenture  made  at  London,  3  February  46  Edward  III.   between 
John  de  Hastvnges  earl  of  Penbroke  lord  of  Weiesford  and  Berg.evenv 


550 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Mernhrane  ^\d — cont. 

and  Anne  his  wife  of  tlie  one  part  and  Margaret  Mare.schal  dame  de 
Mauny  of  the  other  part,  being  a  grant  and  surrender  to  the  said 
earl  and  Anne  and  to  the  said  Anne's  heirs  of  all  the  lands,  tenements, 
franchises,  proHts,  liberties,  commodities,  fees,  advowsons  etc.  which 
she  the  said  Margaret  has  or  had  of  her  heritage  in  the  town  of  Rosse 
and  elsewhere  in  the  county  of  Weiesford  in  Irland,  together  with  the 
castle  and  all  the  lordship  of  Caterlagh,  rendering  yearly  to  her  during 
her  life  at  the  feasts  of  St.  John  Baptist  and  Michaelmas  by  even 
portions  a  third  part  of  the  profits  of  the  premises  beyond  the  reprises. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Margaret,  10  May. 


Writing  of  Robert  Bacon  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  John  de  Somerton  of  Fleg'  and  Geoffrey  his  son,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  lands  in  the  town  of  Stalham  called  '  Masonestenemenz,' 
and  of  20  quarters  of  barley  of  yearly  rent  issuing  therefrom. 
Witnesses  :  Roger  de  Boys,  Geoffrey  With',  Roger  Gynej'^e,  John  le 
Gros  knights,  Roger  de  Walsham,  Henry  de  Cokkyrke,  Henry  de 
Croxton,  Alan  de  Denham,  Robert  Bonde.  Dated  Stalham, 
11  May  47  Edward  IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  11  May.  > 

May  12.         Ralph  de  Ferrers  knight  and  John  de  Thorp  knight  to  Peter  de 
Westminster.  Veel  knight.     Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  500  marks,  to  be 
levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Leycestershire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

May  12.         John  Marsshal  clerk  and  Robert  Marsshal  to  the  king.     Joint  and 
Westminster,  several  recognisance  for  201.  payable  in  his  chamber,  to  be  levied  et<5. 
in  Northumberland. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  as  appears  by  a  writ  of  privy  seal  which  is 
on  the  file  for  this  year. 

W^riting  of  Cicely  Turbervile  lady  of  Hacch  Beauchamp,  being  a 
general  release  to  Sir  Valentine  atte  Forde  clerk  of  all  actions,  plaints 
and  demands,  real  and  personal.  Dated  London,  10  May 
47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  May. 

Indenture  of  lease  made  by  Richard  de  Chesterfeld,  Nicholas  de 
Chaddesden,  Richard  de  Tissington  and  Geoffrey  de  Chaddesden 
clerks  to  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  William  de  Wakebrugge  for  life 
%i  a  messuage  and  two  carucates  of  land  in  Wakebrugge,  and  all  lands, 
rents  and  services  which  they  the  lessors  had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment 
of  the  said  William  in  Derbyshire  and  Notynghamshire,  by  the  service 
of  one  rose  yearly  at  Midsummer,  doing  for  them  the  services  due 
and  of  right  accustomed  to  the  chief  lords  and  other  charges  what- 
soever ;  and  covenant  that  the  lessors  and  their  heirs  may  without 
gainsaying  again  enter  and  hold  the  premises,  those  in  Wakebrugge 
excepted,  in  their  former  estate  if  without  their  licence  the  lessee  shall 
be  married  to  any  man,  or  shall  by  device  or  covin  make  any  demise 
or  release  of  the  premises  or  of  parcel  thereof  for  term  of  life  or  of 
years  or  otherwise,  saving  to  the  lessors  and  their  heirs  the  reversion 


47    EDWARD    111.  661 


1373.  Membrane  Sid — cont. 

of    all    the    premises    after    her    death.      Dated    London,    12    May 
47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  lessee  and  by  the  said 
Nicholas  and  Richard  de  Tissyngton,  14  May. 

Writing  of  John  Fauconer,  son  of  John  Fauconer  of  Hussebourne, 
being  a  quitclaim  to  William  do  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Erlcston  lately  held  for  life 
by  Isabel  who  was  wife  of  John  (iainbon  kinght  with  reversion  to  the 
said  bishop.  Witnesses  :  John  de  Fo.xle,  Bernard  Brocas,  Hugh 
Camoys  knights,  John  \\'arblynt()ii.  John  de  Scures,  Henry  de  Popham, 
Thomas  de  Hampton,  Tln)nias  W'arenner,  Hemy  Wattesford,  Thomas 
Devenvssh.  Thomas  de  Se3'nt  Manyfe.     Dated  High  Clere,  23  January 

46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Winchester,  19  February  this 
year  before  William  de  Wychyngham,  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of 
dedimus  potestatem  which  is  on  the  file  for  this  year. 

Charter  of  Joan  Blaunclie,  relict  of  John  Devenissh  citizen  and 
skinner  of  London,  giving  with  warranty  to  Michael  de  Ravendale, 
Robert  de  Muskham  and  Thomas  de  Middelton  clerks,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  a  messuage,  340  acres  of  land,  6  acres  of  meadow,  20  acres  of 
,  pasture,  25  acres  of  wood  and  QOs.  of  rent  in  Emeldon  co.  Essex. 

Witnesses  :   John  de  Bampton  sheriff  of  Esse.v  (s«c),  Clement  Spice, 
Robert  Rokell,  Thomas  Craumford,  John  Scrivan.     Dated  20  April 

47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
15  May. 

May  17.  John  de  Welle  knight  to  Maud  de  Welle  his  mother.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  5001.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Lincolnshire. 

May  18.         George   Elles worth   of   Conyngton   to   John   de   Hilton   parson   of 
Westminster.  Haverhill  co.   Suffolk.     Recognisance  for  2001.,  to   be  levied  etc.   in 
Cambridgeshire. 

Gilbert  Giffard  knight  to  Richard  de  Ravenesere  clerk.  Recog- 
nisance for  ly  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  m  Gloucestershire. 

Henry  Sturmy  to  the  king.  Recognisance  for  100^,  to  be  levied 
etc.  in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 

Defeasance  thereof,  upon  condition  that  Walter  Douel,  who 
with  the  king's  licence  is  about  to  journey  to  the  court  of  Rome, 
shall  therein  attempt  nought  that  may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the 
king  or  realm  or  of  an^-  of  his  people. 

Writing  of  Robert  Botiler  of  Hertwell,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  John  Vilers,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands,  rents, 
reversions  and  services  in  the  towns  of  Hertwell  and  Asshen  held  for 
Ufe  or  at  will  of  the  heritage  of  him  the  said  Robert  by  Richard  Steven 
and  Joan  his  wife,  William  Kvseby  and  Isabel  his  wife,  John  Wlrvch, 
John  Phelip  and  Robert  Tymkoc,  which  lands  etc.  the  said  Robert 
lately  demised  and  granted  to  Thomas  de  Preston  knight,  the  said 


552 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  Sid — cont. 

John  Vileres  and  John  Maunsel  for  their  lives  rendering  yearly  to  the 
grantor  and  to  his  heirs  one  eorn  of  wheat  for  the  first  six  years,  and 
thereafter  10/.  a  year.  Witnesses  :  Simon  Pakeman,  Robert 
Pulteneye,  John  de  (ladeshy,  (JeofTrey  de  Segrave.  Dated  Hertwell, 
the  feast  of  St.  Philip  and  St.  James  47  Edward  IIL 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  May. 

May  14.  To  tlie  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  Dovorre.     Order  to 

Westminster,  suffer  Walter  Douel  in  that  port  freely  to  pass  towards  the  court  of 
Rome,  any  command  to  them  previously  addressed  to  the  contrary 
notwithstanding  ;  as  he  has  prayed  the  king  for  licence  to  pass  thither 
in  order  to  get  a  confirmation  of  the  prior  of  Shefte,  and  the  king  has 
granted  him  licence  for  that  Henr}^  Sturmy,  appearing  in  person  in 
chancery,  has  made  a  recognisance  for  100/.  to  be  levied  to  the  king's 
use  if  the  said  \\'alter  shall  there  attempt  aught  which  may  tend  to 
the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  crown. 

May  29.  John  de  O.xton  to  Thomas  Mount  of  Wykham  clerk  and  Henry  de 

Westminster.  Codyngton  clerk.  Recognisance  for  100/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Notynghamshire. 


Membrane  30c/. 

May  19.  Rees  ap  Griffuth  knight  to  Arnald  Savage  knight.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  466/.  13<9.  4f/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Staffordshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  Arnald  Savage  and  other  the 
executors  of  Eleanor  who  was  wife  of  Arnald  Savage  knight  and  his 
administratrix. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Arnald  Savage  knight  and  Sir  Rees 
ap  Griffith  knight,  being  a  defeasance  of  the  foregomg  recognisance, 
upon  condition  that  Sir  Rees  or  some  one  in  his  name  shall  pay  to 
Sir  Arnald  in  his  lodging  in  Sothewerk  near  London  66/.  13s.  4c/.  within 
the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next,  40/.  within  the  quinzaine  of  Easter 
following,  40/.  at  Michaelmas  term  following,  and  so  from  j^ear  to  j'ear 
until  the  sum  of  466/.  135.  4c/.  be  fully  paid.  Dated  Sothewerk  near 
London,  19  May  47  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  21  May. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Forster,  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  Forster  of 
Aldenham,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Maud  who  was 
sometime  wife  of  Geoffrey  Goldbetere  of  Holbourne,  her  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  all  right  in  the  lands  now  held  by  her  in  the  parishes  of 
St.  Andrew  Holbourne,  St.  Giles  without  Holbourne  bar  and  St.  Pancras. 
Witnesses  :  Xicholas  de  Exton,  William  Knot,  Stejjhen  Child,  William 
atte  March,  John  Buntyngford.  Dated  Holbourne,  Thursday  before 
St.  Andrew  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  21  May  this  year. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Gyssyng  knight,  being  a  letter  of  attorney 
to  Robert  Sergeaunt  and  Thomas  de  Galdecote  [sic)  to  deliver  to  Robert 
de  Swylh'ngton  the  uncle  knight  seisin  in  the  manor  and  advowson  of 
Kyngeston.     Dated  London,  Friday  after  St.  Dunstan  47  EdAvard  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  21  May. 


47    EDWARD    111.  553 


1373.  Membrane  30rf — cont. 

Writing  of  Tlionia.s  Biad('f(>ld,  being  a  grant  and  surrender  to 
Sir  Tlionuis  de  Gyssyng  of  all  his  estate  in  the  manor  of  Kyngeston 
with  the  site  of  the  said  manor,  the  lands,  woods,  meadows,  pastures, 
rents,  services  and  farms,  as  fully  as  he  the  said  Thomas  Bradefeld 
had  the  same  by  grant  or  lease  of  the  said  Sir  Thomas  de  Gissj'ng, 
saving  to  the  said  lessee  the  body  of  John  Bonfay  and  all  that  goes 
witli  him,  his  goods  and  chattels,  u])on  condition  that  he  shall  find  a 
fit  tenant  to  hold  the  lands  which  the  said  John  and  his  mother  hold 
in  bondage  in  the  said  manor  by  the  services  and  customs  due  for  the 
same  for  a  term  of  twelve  years  from  Michaelmas  next.  Dated 
Kyngeston.  Monday  before  St.  Dunstan  40  {sic)  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  21  May. 

Indenture  witnessing  a  gift  made  with  warranty  by  Sir  Thomas  de 
Gyssyng  knight  to  Sir  Robert  de  Swylyngton  the  uncle,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Kyngeston  co.  Cauntebrig  and 
all  the  estate  of  him  the  said  Thomas  therein,  \\ith  profits,  liberties, 
lands  etc.  as  fully  as  the  same  were  in  the  hand  of  the  said  Thomas 
at  any  time  before  this  date,  saving  to  the  grantor  the  body  of  Robert 
Pyncote  so  long  as  he  shall  remain  in  the  grantor's  service,  which  Robert 
so  long  as  he  shall  remain  in  that  service  shall  pay  to  Sir  Robert,  his 
heirs  and  assigns,  5s.  j'carl}-  for  all  ser\'ices  and  customs  due  for  the 
lands  by  him  now^  held,  to  hold  the  premises  during  the  lives  of  the 
said  Thomas  and  Agnes  his  wife  rendering  to  the  said  Thomas  40  marks 
a  year  at  Michaelmas,  Christmas,  Easter  and  Midsummer  by  even 
portions  for  the  first  three  years,  50  marks  in  the  fourth  year,  and 
thereafter  40/.  a  year  until  twelve  years  be  completed  from  Michaelmas 
next,  and  after  twelve  years  100/.  yearly  as  aforesaid,  power  being 
reserved  to  the  said  Thomas  if  the  rents  of  40  marks,  50  marks 
or  40/.  be  one  month  in  arrear  to  enter  and  hold  the  premises  and  the 
goods  and  chattels  thereupon  initil  such  rent  and  arrears  be  fully 
paid,  and  after  the  said  twelve  years  if  the  rent  of  100/.  be  one  month 
in  arrear  in  whole  or  in  part,  or  if  \\ithin  one  month  after 
Michaelmas  next  after  the  expiration  of  that  term  Sir  Robert 
shall  not  pay  200/.,  his  estate  hereby  taken  in  the  premises  shall 
cease,  and  it  shall  be  lawful  for  Sir  Thomas  and  any  other  in  his 
name  without  gainsaying  to  enter  again  and  hold  the  same  in 
his  former  estate.  Sir  Robert,  his  heirs  or  executors  being  thereby 
discharged  of  the  rent  and  payment  aforesaid,  saving  to  Sir 
Robert,  his  heirs,  executors  and  assigns,  reasonable  time  and 
easement  with  free  ingress  and  egress  at  their  will  to  lead  and  carry 
away  their  goods  and  chattels  notwithstanding  such  entry  ;  covenant 
that  Sir  Robert  shall  not  be  charged  with  maintenance  of  the  houses 
within  the  manor  moat,  nor  be  impeached  of  waste  thereof,  but  if  he  die 
within  the  said  twelve  years  his  heirs  and  executors  shall  be  charged  with 
maintenance  of  all  houses  of  the  manor  within  and  without  the  moat, 
taking  timber  needful  for  the  houses  without  the  moat  by  view  of  two 
tenants  of  the  manor  appointed  by  Sir  Thomas  or  by  his  attomcA's, 
and  also  for  the  houses  within  the  moat  if  he  will  repair  them,  making 
besides  his  profit  of  the  wood  w  ithout  waste  thereof,  that  during  the 
said  twelve  years  John  Bonefay  shall  hold  of  Sir  Robert  the  land  w  hich 
he  and  his  mother  now  hold  by  the  services  and  customs  thereof 
due,  or  shall  find  a  sufiicient  tenant  of  the  same,  that  Sir  Robert 
shall  have  the  rents,  farms  and  other  profits  to  be  taken  at  Michaelmas 


554  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  'iOd — cont. 

next,  save  the  profits  of  bondage  lands  which  were  in  the  hand 
of  8ir  Thonxas  by  default  of  the  tenants  at  the  time  of  making 
the  lease  to  Thomas  de  Bradefeld,  which  he  shall  have,  and  Sir  Robert 
shall  have  these  at  Michaelmas  after  the  end  of  twelve  years,  when 
Sir  Thomas  de  (Jissyng  shall  have  the  residue  of  the  profits  of  the 
bondage  lands  of  the  manor.  Dated  Kyngeston,  Monday  after 
St.   Dunstan  47   Edward   IIL     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  24  May. 

May  25.  William  de  Lee  of  Croston  co.  Lancastre  to  Walter  Huwet  knight. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  400/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Lancashire. 

Writing  of  Walter  Huwet  knight,  being  a  defeasance  of  the  foregoing 
recognisance,  upon  condition  tluit  William  del  Lee  of  Croston  co. 
Lancaster  shall  pay  or  cause  to  be  paid  to  him  or  his  attorneys  in  the 
church  of  St.  Paul  London  50/.  at  Midsummer  next.  50/.  at  Christmas 
following,  50/.  at  Midsummer  following,  and  50/.  at  Christmas 
following,  and  shall  pay  100/.  for  default  at  any  of  those  terms.  Dated 
London,  20  May  47  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  26  May. 

Writing  of  Nicholas  de  Wyke,  being  a  grant  to  Thomas  Hakeluyt 
clerk,  Walter  Almaly  clerk,  Philip  Holgot  and  Roger  Partrich,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  of  a  j'early  rent  of  20/.  to  be  taken  of  a  tenement  of 
the  said  Nicholas  in  the  city  of  Hereford  called  the  Garet,  by  him 
purchased  of  the  said  Thomas  Hakeluyt  and  Master  William  Wroth, 
Avho  had  the  same  before  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Thomas  Trillek 
bishop  of  Rochester,  tlie  said  rent  to  be  paid  at  Whitsuntide  and 
St.  Peter's  Chains  by  even  portions,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears. 
Dated  London,  24  May  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27  May. 

Membrane  2dd. 

Charter  of  Roger  de  Navenby  of  Dunham,  giving  with  warranty 
to  William  de  Galby  parson  of  Eppeworth,  Gilbert  de  Sutton  upon 
Trent,  Joan  Warde  and  Robert  Marshall,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  his 
lands  etc.  in  Dunliam  and  Markham  cos.  Notyngham  and  Lincoln 
and  elsewhere  in  those  counties.  Witnesses  :  John  Broun  of  Dunham, 
Thomas  Otyve,  William  Spaldyng  of  the  same,  Walter  Kelby  of  Lincoln. 
Dated   Dunliam,    1    May  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  23  May. 

May  23.  William  de  Skipwyth  knight  to  Adam  Fraunceys  citizen  of  London. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  100/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Lincolnshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  John  Fournes  one  of  the 
said  Adam's  executors. 

Charter  of  John  Mannyng  clerk  and  John  Motte  of  Walyngford,  being 
a  gift  with  warranty  to  John  James  of  the  same,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  their  whole  manor  of  Brightwell  and  all  other  lands,  rents  and 
services,  homages,  reversions,  bodies  of  neifs  and  all  that  goes  with 
them,  meadows,  pastures,  woods  {bossis)  etc.  which  they  had  in  the 


47    EDWARD    III.  555 


1373.  Membrane  29d — cont. 

towns  and  hamlets  of  Briglitwell,  Chalgrave,  Bensynton,  Ewelme, 
Brotewell  and  Bcre'vyk  co.  Oxford  and  wliicli  were  lately  of  Thomas 
Huscarl.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Baldwin  de  Bereford,  Sir  Roger  de 
Cotesford.  Sir  Reynold  do  Malyns.  Sir  Gilbert  Wace  knights,  John 
de  Ruoote.  Thomas  Barentyn,  John  Baldyngdon,  John  Harwedon, 
John  Park,  Richard  Salveyn,  Robert  Wouburne,  Nicholas  Tettesworthe, 
Walter  Yonge,  Thomas  Stanydelve,  John  Walyngford.  Dated 
Brightwell,  4  May  47  Edward  HI. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  24  Ma}-. 

Indenture  made  between  Richard  Lescrope  kiiight  and  Walter 
Hiiet  knight,  reciting  a  charter  indented  bearing  date  7  May 
44  Edward  III,  enrolled  in  the  Common  Bench,  whereby  Sir  Gervase 
de  Clyfton,  Sir  Robert  De3'ncourt  knights  and  Sir  William  Hemmyng 
parson  of  Chastelcombe  in  Wilteshire  enfeoffed  the  said  Walter  and 
one  Juliana  Dastyn  now  wife  of  Stephen  Spere  of  the  manor  and 
advowson  of  Hamelden  co.  Bukingham,  to  hold  to  them  and  their 
assigns  for  their  lives  and  the  life  of  the  longest  liver  and  to  the 
executors  of  the  survivor  for  one  year  more,  with  certain  conditions 
and  the  remainder  therein  contained,  and  that  the  said  Stephen  and 
Juliana  have  by  fine  granted  and  released  to  the  said  Walter 
and  to  his  heirs  whatsoever  they  had  in  the  premises,  and  witnessing 
that  he  the  said  Walter,  upon  the  condition  following,  hereby  gives 
all  his  estate  in  the  premises  to  the  said  Richard,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  rendering  yearh'  in  the  said  church  at  Martinmas  and 
Whitsuntide  by  even  portions  501.  to  the  said  Walter  during 
his  life  and  to  his  heirs,  executors  and  assigns  for  one  year 
longer,  and  if  the  said  \\'alter  die  in  the  life  time  of  the  said 
Juliana  to  his  heirs,  executors  and  assigns  during  her  life  and  one 
year  longer,  paying  and  performing  all  charges  and  dues  for  the  same, 
power  being  reserved  to  the  said  Walter,  his  heirs,  executors  and 
assigns,  to  enter  again  and  hold  the  premises  in  their  former  estate 
if  the  rent  be  in  arrear ;  covenant  that  the  said  Richard  shall 
maintain  the  liouses  and  mills  of  the  said  manor,  that  the  said  Walter 
shall  have  wards  and  marriages  falling  in  before  this  date  of  the  lands 
and  heirs  of  tenants  of  the  manor,  and  that  whereas  the  said  Walter's 
assigns,  in  case  he  shall  alien  to  another  his  estate  thereof,  maj'  not 
have  power  to  enter  for  default  of  payment  of  the  said  rent,  that  if 
he  shall  please  so  to  do  it  shall  be  la\\  ful  for  any  purchaser  of  the  said 
rent  after  such  purchase  to  distrain  for  arrears  thereof.  Dated  London, 
26  May  47  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  bj'  the  parties,  26  May. 

Writing  of  Walter  Huet  knight,  being  a  letter  of  attorney  to 
John  de  Gonwardby  to  deliver  to  Sir  Richard  Lescrope  seisin  of  the 
manor  and  advowson  of  Hamelden  co.  Bukingham,  according  to  a 
charter  indented  thereof  made.  Dated  London,  26  May  47  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  26  Ma3\ 

Writing  of  Michael  de  la  Pole  knight,  giving  to  Sir  Warin  de  Isle, 
Sir  Richard  Darundel,  Sir  Robert  Symeon,  Sir  Piers  Coke,  Sir  Walter 
Ledecombe  parson  of  Kyslyngbury  and  Sir  Richard  Caunterbury 
parson  of  Charleton  for  their  lives  and  the  life  of  the  longest  liver  a 


556  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  29d — cont. 

yearly  rent  of  80  marks  to  l>e  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by 
even  portions  of  his  manor  of  Norton  under  Hamedon  co.  Somerset, 
with  power  to  distiain  for  arrears  ;  and  he  has  paid  them  one  gold 
noble  in  name  of  seisin  thereof.  Dated  Westminster,  20  May 
47  Edward  IIL     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  24  May. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Warin  de  Isle,  Sir  Richard  Darundel, 
Sir  Robert  Symeon,  Sir  Piers  Coke,  Sir  Walter  Ledecombe  parson  of 
Kyslynbury  and  Sir  Richard  Caunterbury  parson  of  Charleton  of 
the  one  part,  and  Sir  Michael  de  la  Pole  of  the  other  part,  being  the 
defeasance  of  a  yearly  rent  of  80  marks  of  the  manor  of  Norton  under 
Hamedon  co.  Somerset,  a  yearly  rent  of  50  marks  of  the  manor  of 
Mersshe  co.  Buckingham,  a  yearly  rent  of  40  marks  of  the  manor  of 
Ramerugge  co.  Southampton,  and  a  yearly  rent  of  11/.  of  the  manor 
of  Connok  co.  VV^'ltesir  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by 
even  portions  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears,  all  granted  by  Sir 
Michael  to  the  said  first  parties  for  their  lives  and  the  life  of  the 
longest  liver,  upon  condition  that  Sir  Michael,  his  heirs  or  executors 
or  some  other  in  their  name  shall  truly  keep  all  the  covenants  on 
their  part  contained  in  an  indenture  between  the  said  Sir  Warin 
and  Sir  Michael,  being  a  treaty  of  marriage  between  Gerard  son  of 
Sir  Warin  and  Anne  daughter  of  Sir  Michael  ;  and  covenant  that 
when  the  same  shall  be  fully  performed  the  said  writings  of  annuities 
shall  be  given  up  to  Sir  Michael,  his  heirs  or  executors,  with  an 
acquittance  and  release  of  all  actions  real  and  personal  which  may 
be  taken  by  reason  of  the  same.  Dated  Westminster,  23  May 
47  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  b}^  the  said  Warin  and  Michael, 
24  May. 

Writing  of  W^alter  E\\eyn  and  John  Brigge,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  John  James  of  Walyngford,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the 
manor  of  Bright\\e]l  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services,  homages, 
reversions,  bodies  of  neifs  and  all  that  goes  with  them,  meadows, 
pastures,  woods  etc.  in  the  towns  and  hamlet?  of  Bright\\ell,  Chalgrave, 
Bensynton,  Ewelme,  Brotewell  and  Berewyk  co.  Oxford.  Witnesses  : 
Sir  Bald\\in  de  Bereford,  Sir  Roger  de  Cotesford,  Sir  Reynold  de 
Malyns,  Sir  Gilbert  Wace  knights,  John  de  Roucote,  Thomas  Barentyn, 
John  de  Baldyngdon,  John  Harewedon,  John  Park.  Robert  Wouborne, 
Nicholas  Tettesworthe.  Walter  Yongc,  Thomas  Stanvdelf.  Dated 
BrightAvell,  27  May  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  Maj'. 

Membrane  28c?. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  W^arin  del  Isle  and  Sir  Michael  de  Pole, 
witnessing  an  agreement  that  Gerard  son  of  Sir  Warin  shall  take  to 
wife  Anne  daughter  of  Sir  Michael  ;  that  they  shall  be  married  before 
Midsummer  next  ;  that  on  their  marriage  day  Sir  Michael  shall  pay 
200  marks  to  Sir  Warin  or  his  assigns  at  London  in  the  lodging  of  the 
lord  of  Berkele  in  the  parish  of  St.  Andrew  by  Baynardescastel, 
100  marks  at  Midsummer  day  aforesaid,  100  marks  at  Christmas 
following,  100  marks  at  Midsummer  following,  100  marks  at  Christmas 
following  at  the  same  place,  and  so  from  year  to  year  until  the  sum 


47    EDWARD    lU.  557 


1373.  Membrane  28d — cont. 

of  933/.  6s.  Sd.  be  fully  piiid,  for  whicli  sum  Sir  Warin  has  agreed  to 
demise  to  certain  pei"soii.s  in  fee  simple  the  manors  of  Draycote 
CO.  Wiltesir  and  Kyslyngbury  co.  Norhampton.  the  advowson  of 
Kyslyngbury  excepted,  taking  again  an  estate  to  him  and  Dame 
Margaret  his  wife  and  to  their  heirs,  and  then  by  tine  granting  the 
same  \\ ith  warranty  to  the  said  Gerard  and  Anne  and  to  the  heirs  of 
their  botlies  to  hold  of  them  the  said  Waiin  and  Margaret  rendering 
yearly  of  the  manor  of  Draycote  10  marks  at  Michaelmas  and  the 
Annunciation  by  even  portions  ;  that  Sir  Warin  shall  demise  to 
certain  persons  in  fee  simple  the  manors  of  Budene.  Pusemere  and 
Uplainborne  co.  Berks,  Oke  co.  Oxford,  and  Stowe  and  Brampton  co. 
Norhampton,  who  of  the  manor  of  Oke  shall  grant  an  annuity  of  14/. 
with  power  to  distrain  to  such  persons  as  Sir  Warin  shall  please,  and 
he  shall  take  again  an  estate  thereof  to  him  and  the  heirs  male  of  his 
bod}'  and  for  lack  of  such  issue  to  his  right  heirs  ;  that  Sir  Warin  shall 
likewise  demise  to  certain  persons  in  fee  simple  the  manors  of 
K\-ngeston  Isle  with  Faulore  and  Bathelk^nig  co.  Berkes,  Chylton  and 
Leverton  co.  Wiltesir  and  Shirborne  co.  Oxford,  taking  again  an  estate 
to  him  and  Dame  Margaret  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  his  bod}^  with 
remainder  for  lack  of  such  issue  to  his  right  heirs  ;  that  all  these 
feoffments  shall  be  made  before  the  Translation  of  St.  Thomas  the 
MartjT  next ;  that  the  said  Gerard  and  Anne,  who  was  nine  years 
of  age  at  the  Purification  la.st,  shall  after  such  marriage  dwell  with 
Sir  Warin  at  his  charges  until  she  be  15  years  of  age,  if  the  said  Gerard 
so  long  live,  by  reason  of  which  dwelling  and  charges  Sir  Warin  shall 
during  that  time  take  to  his  own  use  the  issues  of  the  said  manors  of 
Draycote  and  Kyslyngbury,  and  if  the  said  Gerard  die  after  the 
levying  of  the  fine  aforesaid  and  before  the  said  Anne  shall  be  15  years 
of  age,  she  shall  after  his  death  take  the  issues  thereof  to  her  own  use, 
dwelling  at  her  own  charges,  and  then  Sir  Warin  shall  be  discharged 
of  her  maintenance,  and  of  action  of  account  thereof  to  her  accruing 
as  the  said  Gerard's  executrix  or  otherwise,  saving  always  to 
Sir  Warin  all  the  moveables  and  stock  {mayneyure)  upon  the  said 
manor's  whensoever  the  said  Gerard  and  Anne  or  one  of  them  shall 
enter  the  same,  and  if  entry  be  made  when  the  manors  are  sown 
recompense  shall  be  made  to  Sir  Warin  or  his  executors  for  the  seed 
corn,  ploughing  and  other  charges  rateably  according  to  the  season, 
provided  that  Sir  Michael  shall  not  be  bound  to  answer  for  action  of 
account  for  the  said  Gerard,  nor  for  such  moveables  and  stock  in 
case  the  said  Gerard  be  alive,  but  only  in  case  the  said  Anne  shall 
survive  him  and  until  her  age  of  15  years,  and  if  the  said  Gerard  and 
Anne  live  until  that  time  they  shall  then  take  to  their  own  use  the 
profits  and  issues  of  the  said  manors.  Sir  Warin  being  discharged  of 
their  maintenance,  but  if  the  said  Anne  die  without  issue  before 
the  age  of  15  Sir  Warin  shall  be  bound  within  three  years  to  repay 
a  moiety  of  the  said  sum  of  933/.  6s.  M.,  saving  the  200/.  of  the  first 
two  payments  which  shall  not  be  repaid,  and  if  the  said  Gerard  die 
after  his  marriage  with  the  said  Anne  and  before  the  said  fine  be 
levied,  the  same  shall  be  levied  with  warranty  to  the  said  Anne  for 
life,  rendering  a  yearly  rent  as  aforesaid  to  Sir  Warin  and  his  heirs. 
Dated  Westminster,  20  May  47  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  24  May. 

Writing  of  Warin  de  Isle  knight,  giving  to  Sir  Michael  de  la  Pole 
knight,      Sir     Richard      le      Scroup,      Sir     Edmund     de     la     Pole, 


568  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  28d — conl. 

Tliomaa  Heslyngden,  Sir  Robert  Rc^ulyii  i)ixrson  of  Norton  and  Sir  Philip 
Mulreth  parson  of  Storteford  for  life  and  to  the  survivor  of  them 
a  yearly  rent  of  100  marks  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  of 
his  manors  of  Alwarton,  Tewarnaille  and  Mousehole  co.  Cornewaille, 
with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears.  Dated  Westminster,  20  May 
47  Edward  IIL     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  24  May. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Michael  de  la  Pole,  Sir  Richard 
Lescrope,  Sir  Edmund  de  la  Pole,  Thomas  Heslyngden,  Sir  Robert 
Raulyn  parson  of  Norton  and  Sir  Philip  Malreth  parson  of  Storteford  of 
the  one  part  and  Sir  Warin  de  Isle  of  the  other  part,  being  a  defeasance 
of  the  yearly  rent  of  100  marks  by  Sir  Warin  given  to  the  first  parties 
for  life  to  be  taken  of  his  manors  of  Alwarton,  Tewarnaille  and  Mouse 
Hole  CO.  Cornewaille,  upon  condition  that  Sir  Warin,  his  heirs  or 
executors  or  some  other  in  their  names,  shall  keep  all  the  covenants 
contained  in  an  indenture  made  between  the  said  Sir  Michael  and 
Sir  Warin,  being  a  treaty  of  marriage  between  Gerard  son  of 
Sir  Warin  and  Anne  daughter  of  Sir  Michael  ;  granting  that  when  all 
the  said  covenants  shall  be  fulfilled  the  writing  of  annuity  shall  be  given 
up,  with  a  release  of  all  actions  real  and  jjcrsonal  by  reason  of  the 
premises.     Dated  Westminster,  23  May  47  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Michael  and  Warin 
24  May. 

Writing  of  Michael  de  la  Pole  knight,  giving  to  Sir  Warin  de  Isle, 
Sir  Richard  Darundell,  Sir  Robert  Symeon,  Sir  Piers  Coke, 
Sir  Walter  Ledecombe  parson  of  Kyslyngburj^  and  Sir  Richard 
Caunterbury  parson  of  Charleton  for  their  lives  and  to  the  survivor 
of  them  a  yearly  rent  of  40  marks  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas 
by  even  portions  of  his  manor  of  Ramenrugge  co.  South  Hampton,  with 
power  to  distrain  for  arrears  ;  and  he  has  paid  them  one  gold  noble 
in  name  of  seisin  thereof.  Dated  Westminster,  20  May  47  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  24  May. 

Writing  of  Michael  de  la  Pole,  knight,  giving  to  Sir  Warin  de  Isle, 
Sir  Richard  Darundell,  Sir  Robert  Symeon,  Sir  Piers  Coke,  Sir  Walter 
Ledecombe  parson  of  KysljTigbury  and  Sir  Richard  Caunterbury 
parson  of  Charleton  for  their  lives,  and  to  the  survivor  of  them,  a  yearly 
rent  of  20Z.  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions 
of  his  manor  of  Connok  co.  W^yltesir,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  ; 
and  he  has  paid  them  one  gold  noble  in  name  of  seisin.  Dated 
Westminster,  20  May  47  Edward  III.     French. 

Writing  of  Michael  de  la  Pole  knight,  giving  to  Sir  Warin  de  Isle, 
Sir  Richard  Darundel,  Sir  Robert  Sj-meon,  Sir  Piers  Coke,  Sir  Walter 
Ledecombe  parson  of  Kislyngbury  and  Sir  Richard  de  Caunterbury 
parson  of  Charleton  for  their  lives  and  to  the  survivor  of  them 
a  yearly  rent  of  50  marks  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by 
even  portions  of  his  manor  of  Merssh  co.  Buckingham,  with  power  to 
distrain  for  arrears ;  and  he  has  paid  them  one  gold  noble  in  name  of 
seisin.     Dated  Westminster,  20  May  47  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings,  24  May. 


47    EDWARD    III.  559 


1373.  Membrane  21d. 

riiarter  indented  of  Tlioinas  Trevet  kiiit;ht.  giviiic{  with  warranty 
to  8ir  John  Brewode,  Sir  Roger  Hunte  clerks.  John  Wroth  tlie 
younger,  Robert  de  la  More,  William  Cressyngham  and  John  Say, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  his  manor  of  Xorthaston  co.  Oxford  with  all 
members,  lordships,  liberties,  rents  and  .services  of  free  men  and  neifs, 
rights,  commodities  etc.  thereto  belonging,  under  these  conditions, 
that  if  on  the  feast  of  St.  Bartholomew  next  at  London  in  the  church 
of  St.  James  (larlekhethe  lie  the  said  Thomas,  his  heirs  or  executors, 
shall  pay  80/.  to  John  (Myvelee  citizen  and  vintner  of  London,  his  heirs 
or  executors,  this  feoffment  shall  be  void.  Witnesses  :  John  de 
Stodeye.  William  Strete.  Thomas  Cornwaleys,  Roger  Loiige.  William 
Tongg'.     Dated  ].,ond()n,  Tuesday  before  Ascension  day  47  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  May, 

Writing  of  John  James  of  Walyngford,  being  a  letter  of  attorney 
to  Nicholas  de  Tettesworthe.  Richard  Salveyn  and  Sir  John  Mortymer 
clerk  to  deliver  to  Sir  Baldwin  de  Bereford  knight  and  to  his  heirs 
seisin  of  the  manor  of  Brightwell  eo.  Oxford  and  its  appurtenances, 
sometime  of  Thomas  Huscarl.  Dated  Brightwell,  30  May  47  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  30  May. 

Maj'  15.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  Dovorre.     Order,  upon 

Westminster,  the  petition  of  the  canons  of  St.  Mary  Salisbury,  to  suffer  Roger 
Shipton  clerk  in  that  port  to  pass  towards  the  court  of  Rome  with 
two  yeomen,  any  command  to  them  previously  addressed  to  the 
contrary  notwithstanding ;  as  the  said  canons  have  prayed  licence  to 
send  him  thither  for  furtherance  of  certain  business  affecting  the  said 
church  ;  and  Master  William  Byde  one  of  tlie  said  canons  and  the  said 
Roger,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  made  a  recognisance 
in  200  marks  to  ])e  levied  to  the  king's  use  of  their  lands  and  chattels 
and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Surrey  and  Wiltesir  if  he  shall  attempt 
aught  that  may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  cro\\'n. 

Writing  indented  of  Thomas  Trevet  knight,  being  a  letter  of  attorney 
to  William  Cljnnore,  John  Leusson  his  baililT and  Thomas  Say  to  deliver 
to  Sir  John  Brewode  Sir  Roger  Hunte  clerks,  John  ^^'roth  the  younger, 
Robert  de  la  More,  William  Cressyngham  and  John  Say,  or  to  their 
attorney,  seisin  of  the  manor  of  Northaston  co.  Oxford  according  to 
his  charter  indented  of  feofTment,  under  the  condition  therein  con- 
tained.    Dated  London,  25  May  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  May. 

Indenture  witnessing  a  surrender,  made  at  Clopcote  co,  Berkes 
20  May  47  Edward  111  by  John  James  of  Walyngford  to  Sir  Baldwin 
de  Bereford  knight,  of  the  manors  of  Newenham  Moryn  co.  Oxford 
and  la  Resshe  with  Clopcote  aforesaid,  which  he  the  said  John  holds 
for  his  life  with  reversion  to  Sir  Baldwin  ;  and  a  release  made  bj' 
Sir  Baldwin  to  the  said  John  James  of  all  actions  to  this  date  by 
reason  of  the  said  manors  or  the  farm  thereof,  or  of  any  matter  in 
regard  to  the  same.     French. 

Memorandxim  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  30  May. 


660 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  21d — cont. 

Writing  of  Baldwin  de  Hereford  knight,  being  a  letter  of  attorney 
to  Sir  John  Mannyng  clerk,  Thomas  Stanydolf  and  John  Brigge  to 
deliver  to  John  James  of  Walyngford  and  his  heirs  seisin  of  the  manor 
of  la  Resshe  with  the  appurtenances,  and  all  the  lands^,  rents,  services, 
meadows,  pastures  and  fisheries  in  Clopcote  co.  Berkes,  also  of  40«.  of 
rent  in  Croumersh  Giffard  and  Newenham  Moryn  co.  Oxford, 
according  to  indentui-es  made  concerning  the  premises.  Dated  Clopcote, 
30  May  47  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  30  May. 

May  30.  John    Heyne    clerk    to    Master    Thomas    Mounte    of    Wykham. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  11  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Staffordshire. 


John  Randolf  clerk  to  the  said  Master  Thomas. 
11  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Sussex. 


Recognisance  for 


May  31.  William  Devereus  of  Bodenham  co.  Hereford  to  John  de  Burleye 

Recognisance  for  80  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Herefordshire. 


Westminster,  knight. 


Writing  of  Nicholas  Golapj-n,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Thomas  de 
Courtenay  and  Joan  his  wife,  Peter  Silverlok  and  John  Baucombe, 
and  to  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  Thomas,  of  the  manor  of 
Trevysquoj'd  co.  Cornwall,  the  advowson  of  tlie  church  of  St.  Mabena 
therein,  and  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  of  all  tenants  within  the 
precinct  of  the  said  manor  which  the  said  Thomas  had  by  gift  and 
feoffment  of  John  Filz  Estephene.  Witnesses :  Martin  de  Ferrers, 
Thomas  Peverell,  William  Hiwisch,  William  Luscote,  John  Beovyle, 
William  Lambron,  John  Penhergard,  John  Rescarmer,  Thomas  Meyndy, 
W'illiam  Bera,  Revnold  Helvgan.  Dated  Launcefton,  Saturday  after 
St.  David  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Launceveton  5  March  before 
William  de  Wich\mgham,  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus 
potestatem,  which  is  on  the  file  of  this  year. 


Writing  of  Roger  de  Scales  lord  of  Newsell,  being  a  quitclaim  to 
Sir  John  de  Norwico  knight  of  Suffolk,  Sir  Thomas  Maundevylle 
knight,  John  de  Cleye,  John  Marlere,  John  Heed  clerks,  Nicholas  de 
Massyngham  and  William  Bateman  and  their  heirs  of  the  manors  of 
Middilton,  Castelhall,  Hoghe,  Rejaiham,  Berton  B\Tidych  and 
Ilsyngton,  the  advowsons  of  Ilsjaigton  and  Clenchwarton,  and  the 
reversion  of  a  messuage,  40  acres  of  land  and  2s.  of  rent  in  Sothereye 
CO.  Norffolk,  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Wrydlyngton  co.  Suffolk, 
the  manor  of  Rewenhale  and  the  advowsons  of  Rewenhale  and  Sandon 
CO.  Essex.  Dated  Middilton,  Mondaj^  after  St.  John  ante  portam 
Latinam  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  17  June. 

Writing  of  William  de  USord  earl  of  Suffolk  lord  of  Eye  and 
Framelyngham,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Sir  Adam  de  Hauboys  clerk. 
Sir  John  de  Pissale  clerk  and  Reynold  de  Eccles  of  the  manor  of  Gelham 
in  the  to^Mi  of  Wvcham  co.  Suffolk.  Dated  London,  Sundav  before 
Midsummer  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  June. 


47    EDWARD    III.  561 


1373.  Membrane  26d. 

Indenture  witnessing  a  gift  made  by  Baldwin  de  Hereford  knight 
with  warranty  to  John  James  of  Walyngford,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  the  manor  of  la  Resshe  and  all  the  lands,  rents,  services,  meadows, 
pastures  and  fisheries  in  f'lopeote  co.  Berkes,  40.s.  of  rent  of  divers 
tenants  in  Crouniersh  Giffard  and  Newenham  Morvn  co.  Oxford  and 
all  their  services  there,  to  wit  of  Sir  John  Mannyng,  Walter  Yonge, 
Pviehard  atte  Folde  and  William  Motte  for  lands  which  were  of  the  said 
John  James  and  sometime  of  William  Vacher  in  the  town  of  Xewenham 
Moryn  3s.  Zd.,  of  the  same  tenants  for  lands  which  were  of  the  said  John 
James  and  sometime  of  John  le  Coupere  the  elder  in  the  same  town 
ISf/.,  of  the  same  tenants  for  lands  which  were  of  the  said  John  James 
and  sometime  of  Robert  Boty  in  the  same  town  20d.,  of  the  same 
tenants  for  lands  wliich  were  of  the  said  John  James  and  sometime 
of  Sir  Hugh  de  Berewyk  in  the  same  town  H$.  Gd.,  of  the  same  tenants 
for  lands  which  were  of  the  said  John  James  and  sometime  of  William 
Mongewell  in  the  same  town  15d.,  of  the  same  tenants  for  lands  called 
Badecokkesland  which  were  of  the  said  John  James  and  sometime 
of  John  atte  Garstone  in  the  town  of  Crouniersh  GifTard  8.9.  lOr/.,  of 
the  same  tenants  for  lands  which  were  of  the  said  John  James  and 
sometime  of  William  Deistere  and  Pliilip  Gilot  in  the  same  town 
5s.  5d.,  of  the  same  tenants  for  lands  which  were  of  John  James  and 
sometime  of  Agnes  Ferrant  in  the  same  town  2s.  7f/.,  of  the  same 
tenants  for  lands  which  were  of  John  James  and  sometime  of  John 
Gerard  in  the  same  town  2s.  Sif/.,  of  the  same  tenants  for  lands  which 
were  of  John  James  and  sometime  of  William  Cornewayle  in  the  same 
town  2s.  Shd.,  of  the  same  tenants  for  lands  which  were  of  John  James 
and  .sometime  of  Alexander  Vacher  in  the  same  town  2s.,  in  exchange 
for  the  manor  of  Brightwell  co.  Oxford  and  its  appurtenances  .some- 
time of  Thomas  Huscarl,  which  the  said  John  James  hereby  gives 
with  warranty  to  the  said  Baldwin  and  Philippa  his  wife  and  to  his  heirs 
under  the  conditions  following,  to  wit  that  if  John  James,  his 
heirs  or  assigns,  be  impleaded  concerning  the  manor  of  la  Resshe, 
the  lands,  rents  etc.  aforesaid  in  Clopcote,  or  the  said  rents  in 
Crouniersh  Giflfard  and  Newenham  Moryn  or  any  parcel  thereof  by  the 
said  Baldwin  or  Philippa,  by  the  heirs  of  the  said  Baldwin  or  of 
Sir  Edmund  de  Bereford,  or  by  any  other,  and  if  by  action  tried 
whereof  the  ground  or  title  shall  commence  before  this  date  they  shall 
recover  the  premises  or  parcel  thereof,  or  if  the  said  John  James,  his 
heirs  or  assigns,  be  challenged  or  impleaded  concerning  the  same  or 
parcel  thereof  by  the  said  Dame  Philippa,  if  she  survive  her  husband, 
for  dower  or  otherwi.se,  or  if  John  James,  his  heirs  or  assigns  be  thrust 
out  therefrom  or  from  any  parcel  thereof  by  execution  of  any  judg- 
ment, or  of  any  recognisance  made  in  any  the  king's  court  or  in  the 
staple,  or  by  statute  merchant  made  before  this  date,  or  be  charged 
by  reason  of  the  premises  or  parcel  thereof  with  any  annuity,  debt  or 
charge  whatsoever  to  the  king  or  any  other  originating  before  this  date, 
or  be  therefrom  thrust  out,  molested  or  foreclosed  by  any  right  or  title 
commencing  before  this  date,  or  if  the  said  Baldwin  or  Philippa  or  his 
heirs  shall  make  a  feoflFment  in  fee  of  the  manor  of  Brightwell  or  of 
any  parcel  thereof,  it  shall  be  lawful  for  John  James,  his  heirs  or  assigns, 
to  enter  again  the  whole  manor  of  Brightwell  and  its  appurtenances 
and  to  hold  the  same  for  ever  in  his  former  estate  as  fully  as  he 
gave  the  same  to  them,  this  deed  and  the  exchange  aforesaid  notwith- 
standing.     Witnesses  ;     Sir  John  Golafre,   Sir   Richard   Adderbury, 

OR  36 


562  CALEXDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  26d — conf. 

Sir  Thomas  de  Besyls,  Sir  Roger  de  Cotesford,  Sir  Reynold  de  Mal\Tis, 
Sir  Gilbert  Wace,  Roger  Jolyf,  Edmund  Dauvers.  Richard  Brouns, 
John  Withegenemulle,  Thomas  Barentyn,  John  Rucote,  Nicholas 
Tettesworthe,  Walter  Yonge,  Thomas  Stanvdelf.  Dated  Clopcote, 
30  May  47  p:d\vard  IIL     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Baldwin  and  John, 
30  May. 

Writing  of  William  de  Latoun,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warrantj'  to 
Thomas  de  Brakenbery  chaplain,  Robert  Couper  and  William  Lambard, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Hetton  which  they  the  said 
Thomas,  Robert  and  William  Lambard  have  for  a  term  of  years  by  his 
demise.     Dated  London,  20  May  47  Edward  IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  31  May. 

June  2.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  Sandwic  or  Dovorre. 

Westminster.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Master  Richard  de  Bermyngeham,  to  suffer 
him  in  one  of  those  ports  to  pass  over  sea  taking  three  servants  and 
three  horses,  any  command  to  them  previously  addressed  to  the 
contrary  notwithstanding  ;  as  he  has  prayed  licence  to  depart  over 
sea  for  furtherance  of  certain  business,  and  the  king  has  granted  him 
licence  for  that  Robert  de  Segyndon  parson  of  Normanton,  John  de 
Harleston  parson  of  Tdeshale,  Simon  de  Lichefeld  and  John  Pety  of 
Staffordshire,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  for 
him  under  a  pain  of  100/.  that  he  shall  not  prosecute  or  attempt  aught, 
or  cause  aught  to  be  prosecuted  or  attempted  to  the  prejudice  of  the 
king  or  crown  or  of  any  of  the  people. 

Vacated,  because  given  up  with  the  seal  unbroken  (in  cera). 

June  12.         Henry  de  Cornewaille  of  Salop,  John  Rej'ne  of  Devon  and  John 
Westminster.  Vautort  of  London  to  John  de  Wy thorn wyk  clerk.     Recognisance  for 
40/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels 
in  the  counties  aforesaid. 

Defeasance  thereof,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Henry,  John  Reyne 
and  John  Vautort  pay  20/.  at  the  Nativity  of  the  Virgin  next. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Mainprise  under  a  pain  of  40/.  made  17  June  this  year  by  John  Stynt 
of  Sutton,  William  W^^l she  of  Dalb}',  Robert  Croft  of  Croft,  and  William 
de  Bynbroke  of  Lincolnshire,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  for 
William  Prior  of  Ardelthorp  chaplain,  who  with  the  king's  licence  is 
about  to  journej^  towards  the  court  of  Rome  by  the  port  of  Dovorre 
or  Sandewic,  that  he  shall  there  prosecute  or  attempt  nought  which 
may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  crown  or  of  his  people. 

Writing  of  Thomas  son  and  heir  of  Andrew  de  Walden,  being  a  quit- 
claim with  warranty  to  Robert  de  Teye  knight,  John  atte  Vyne  rector 
of  St.  Mildred  in  the  Poultry  London,  John  Crowe  rector  of  Little  Chis- 
hull  and  Robert  Mareschal  of  Schelwe  father  of  Roger  Mareschal, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Laufare 
Maudelejm  co.  Essex,  a  park  called  Angrepark  by  the  Golet,  and  all 
lands   in   the   said   park.     Witnesses  :   William   de   Wauton   knight, 


47  EDWARD  III.  563 


1373.  Membrane  26rf — cont. 

Robert  do  Marny  knight,  Alexander  de  Goldyngliam  knight,  Thomas 
de  Leghys,  Thomas  Fitz  Richard,  John  Bedeford,   Thomas  Telgate. 
Dated  Laufare  aforesaid,  Sunday  before  Midsummer  47  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  June. 

June  20.         Godfrey  Foljaumbo  knight  to  Simon  Norreys  clerk  and  Nicholas  do 
Westminster.  Massyngham.     Recognisance  for  200/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  pay- 
ment, of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Derbyshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  Ike  said  Simon. 

Membrane  25rf. 

Indenture  made  between  the  king  and  William  de  Notyngham  of 
Bisseye,  being  a  lease  for  15  j'ears  from  this  date  of  the  king's  mines 
of  gold  and  silver  to  be  found  in  Devonshire  and  Somerset  etc.  (as 
above,  p.  100),  with  power  to  the  lessee  and  his  servants  to  take  miners 
and  labourers  and  all  manner  of  carriages  etc.  Dated  Westminster, 
17  June.     French. 

[Fcedera.] 

June  16.  To  W.  bishop  (sic)  of  Canterbury.  Request  for  his  praj^ers  for  the 
Westminster,  king  and  the  estate  of  the  realm,  and  foi'  the  furtherance  of  the  king's 
lieges,  that  the  king  may  prevail  over  his  adversaries,  also  for  the 
celebration  of  masses,  preachings,  processions  and  other  offices  of  piety 
in  the  city  and  diocese  of  Canterbury,  to  the  end  that  Almighty  God 
may  judge  between  the  king  and  his  adversaries,  and  grant  the  victory 
to  the  king  ;  as  the  king  has  made  provision  to  send  by  sea  and  over 
sea  John  his  son  king  of  Castile  and  Leon  and  duke  of  Lancastre  and 
other  nobles,  princes  and  lieges  of  England  as  well  for  defence  of  the 
church  and  realm  and  of  other  the  king's  lands  as  for  recovery  of  his 
rights  in  France,  \\hich  his  adversary  Charles  of  France  and  his 
adherents  are  unlawfuUj'  withholding  from  the  king.  Bv  K.  and  C. 
[Ibid.] 

The  like  to  the  following  : 
J.  archbishop  of  York. 
W.  bishop  of  Winchester  and  seventeen  other  bishops,  of  whom 

the  bishop  of  St.  Asaph  is  not  named. 
The  guardian  of  the  spirituality  of  the  bishopric  of  Ely  during  the 

vacancy  of  that  see. 
The  abbot  of  Westminster  and  four  other  abbots. 
[Ibid.] 

Writing  of  Thomas  Faucumberge  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  Hugh  de  Westwyk  clerk  and  John  Capoun,  their  heirs 
and  assigns,  of  the  manors  of  Retheresthroup  and  PateshuU  co. 
Norhampton  with  the  knights'  fees  and  advowsons,  rents,  services 
and  appurtenances,  the  manor  of  Whiten  co.  Lincoln,  a  fourth  part  of 
the  manor  of  Whatfeld  co.  Suffolk,  and  59s.  of  rent  issuing  from  the 
manor  of  Kerdyngton  co.  Bedford,  all  which  premises  the  said  Hugh 
and  John  hold  of  the  gift  of  him  the  said  Thomas  by  charter  to  thera 
formerly  made.     Dated  London,  20  June  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  before  the  chancellor,  21  June, 
in  the  bishop  of  Salisbury's  lodging  in  Fletestrete  London. 


564  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373,  Membrane  2bd — cord. 

June  22.         John    Fulham    citizen    and    skinner    of    London    to    Michael    de 
Westminster.  RaveiuUile  clerk  and  (Jilhcrt  de  Sutton.     Recognisance  for  12  marks, 
to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  the  city 
of  London. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

Charter  of  John  de  Norwico  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to  Sir  John 
Playce,  Sir  Robert  Howard,  Sir  Roger  de  Hoys  knights,  John  de  Boys, 
John  de  Wolterton  parson  of  Harpelee,  Adam  (ie  Cokefeld  parson  of 
Salle,  Ellis  de  Byntre  parson  of  Ualham,  Hervey  de  Welham  parson  of 
Stoketon  and  Reynold  de  Eccles,  their  heirs  and  a!-signs,  his  manors 
of  Lyng,  Little  Snoryng,  Haddeston,  Howe  and  Blakworth  with  the 
knights'  fees  and  advowsons  thereto  pertaining,  his  lands  in 
Estwrotham,  Westw  rotham  and  Elyngton,  and  all  his  lands  in  Norffolk 
except  those  held  in  chief.  Witnesses  :  Sir  William  de  Kerdeston, 
Sir  Edmund  de  Thorp,  Sir  Ralph  de  Chelton  the  son  knights,  John  de 
Weston,  John  Berri,  William  Cursoun.  Dated  Lyng,  6  June 
47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
24  June. 

June  24.         John  Fitz  Richard  of  Olneye  to  Edmund  son  and  heir  of  Edmund 
Westminster.  Bolcstrode.     Recognisance  for  SOL,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Bukinghamshire. 

Edmund  son  and  heir  of  Edmund  Bolestrode  to  John  Fitz  Richard 
of  Olneye.     Recognisance  for  100/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Bedfordshire. 

Membrane  24^. 

W^riting  of  Godfrey  Folejambe  knight,  being  a  surrender  to  William 
Bardolf  son  and  heir  of  Sir  John  Bardolf  sometime  lord  of  Wyrmyngeye, 
Simon  Norreys  parson  of  Castre  co.  Xorffolk  and  Nicholas  de 
Massyngham  of  all  the  lordship,  rents  and  services,  knights'  fees, 
bondages  and  demesne  lands  within  the  towns  of  Ambaston  and 
Thurlaston  co.  Derby,  if  any  there  be,  whereof  and  of  the  manor  of 
Okebroke  the  said  John  formerly  made  a  feoffment  and  lease  to  him 
the  said  Godfrey  and  to  his  heirs  upon  a  certain  condition,  as  appears 
by  indentures  thereupon  made,  provided  always  that  the  meadow 
by  Derwent  on  the  side  of  Ambaston,  which  is  parcel  of  the  manor 
of  Okebroke,  be  reserved  to  the  said  Godfrey  and  to  his  heirs  if  at  any 
time  it  used  to  pertain  to  the  said  manor,  and  that  he  nor  his  heirs 
nor  anj'^  other  in  their  name  may  not  hereafter  at  any  time  to  come 
have  ajiy  action  against  the  said  William,  Simon  and  Nicholas,  their 
heirs  or  executors,  in  regard  to  the  said  to\vns  and  lordships,  but  shall 
be  for  ever  barred  hereby.  Dated  London,  1  May  47  Edward  II L 
Witnesses  :  Sir  Adam  de  Clifton,  Sir  Ralph  Polej',  Sir  John  de  Wylton 
knights,  Robert  Mayu,  Robert  Alisandre,  Sir  John  atte  Grene  clerk, 
Giles  de  Stratford.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  21   June. 

Writing  of  William  Bardolf  lord  of  Wyrmingeye,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Sir  Godfrey  Foljambe  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  the  manor  of  Okebroke  co.  Derby  with  all  lands  within  the  town  of 


47    EDWARD    III.  565 


1373.  Membrane  2^d — cont. 

Okebroke  and  the  demesne  lands,  lordships,  meadows,  pastures,  services 
of  free  and  bond  tenants  and  neifs,  their  services  and  all  that  goes  with 
them,  suits  of  court,  parks,  woods  and  hays  with  their  appurtenances 
in  anywise  appendant  or  appurtenant  to  the  said  manor  wheresoever 
they  lie  and  extend  on  either  side  Derwent  within  the  town  and  lordship 
of  Okebroke,  except  tlio  lordship,  rents,  services  and  knights'  fees  in  the 
towns  of  Ambaston  and  Thurlaston,  of  which  manor  with  the 
appurtenances  together  with  his  lands  within  the  town  of  Okebroke 
John  Bardolf  father  of  the  said  William  made  a  feoffment  to  the  said 
Godfrey  and  his  heirs  upon  a  certain  condition,  as  appears  by 
indentures  between  them  made  ;  and  general  release  to  the  said 
Godfrey,  his  heirs  and  executors,  of  all  actions  for  covenant,  debt 
or  contract,  and  all  personal  or  other  actions  whatsoever  to  this  date. 
Witnesses  :  Averey  de  Soulne,  Robert  Twyford,  Richard  Menill, 
Henry  Brailesford  knights,  Ralj)h  Stathum,  William  Sallowe,  John 
Fraunceys,  Henry  Fraunceys.  Dated  Okebroke,  Wednesday  the  eve  of 
Ascension  day  47  Edward  III.  French. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  21  June. 

Charter  indented  of  Payn  Tybetot,  son  of  John  Tybetot  lord  of 
Langar,  giving  with  warranty  to  Henry  rector  of  tlie  church  of  St.  Mary 
BorewcUe  and  John  Ed\\ard  clerk,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  his  manor 
of  Borewclle  co.  Cantebriggc  which  he  the  said  Payn  had  by  gift  and 
feoffment  of  Philip  Chamberleyn  ;  and  granting  them  with  like 
warranty  the  reversion  of  the  manor  of  Harlestone  now  held  for  life 
by  Elizabeth  his  mother  by  demise  of  him  the  said  Payn.  Witnesses  : 
John  de  Burgh  knight,  Thomas  de  Shardelowe  knight,  Henry  Englisshe, 
Thomas  Torel,  Thomas  Sewale,  William  Swofham,  Thomas  Swafham. 
Dated  Borewelle,  Thursday  after  St.  Lawrence  46  Edward  III. 

Charter  indented  of  Payn  Tybetot,  son  of  John  Tybetot  lord  {domini) 
of  Langar,  giving  with  warranty  to  Henry  rector  of  St.  Mary 
Borewelle,  and  John  Edward  clerk,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  his  manor 
of  Lovetotes  co.  Suthfolk  \\hich  he  had  by  gift  of  Elizabeth  his  mother. 
Witnesses  :  Roger  le  Archer,  Thomas  atte  Oke,  Nicholas  Norman, 
Roger  Wolvestone,  John  Cobet.  Dated  Bramford,  Thursday  after 
St.  Lawrence  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charters,  22  June 
this  year. 

Charter  of  John  de  Norwico  knight  giving  with  \n  arranty  to  Sir  John 
Playce,  Sir  Robert  Howard,  Sir  Roger  de  Boys  knights,  John  de  Bo^'S, 
John  de  Wolterton  parson  of  Herpelee,  Adam  de  Cokefeld  parson  of 
Salle,  Ellis  de  Byntre  parson  of  Dalham,  Hervey  de  Welham  parson  of 
Stoketon  and  Reynold  de  Eccles,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  his  castle 
of  Metj'ngham  and  the  manors  of  Ilketeleshale,  Shipmedwe,  Melles, 
Bromfeld,  Wanhaston  and  Reddesham,  four  carucates  of  land  and 
6  acres  of  meadow  in  Metyngham,  Shipmedwe,  Ilketeleshale,  Barsham, 
Becles  and  Wanhaston,  and  all  other  his  lands  in  Suffolk  ;  and  granting 
them  with  like  warrant}'  the  reversion  of  the  manor  of  Dalynghoo 
now  held  for  life  b\'  liis  mother  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  Sir  Walter 
de  Norwico  with  reversion  to  the  grantor  and  his  heirs,  also  the  advow- 
son  of  Dalynghoo  and  a  fifth   part   of   the  advowson  of  Alderton. 


566  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  24d — conl. 

Witnesses  :     Sir  Jolm  de  Brewes,  Sir  John  Argentem,  Sir  John  de 
Hulloston   knights,   Henry   Rose,    Richard    Uautres,   Robert  Oarveys, 
Walter  Duk  {.sic).     Dated  Metynghain,  0  June  47  Edward  IIL 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  24  June. 

Writing  of  William  Bet\e  of  Ocrlethorp.  Robert  de  Gerlethorp  clerk, 
Thomas  de  Oerlethoip  clerk  and  William  de  (ierlethorp  clerk  son.s  of 
the  said  William  Bene,  being  a  general  release  to  John  abbot  of  Selby, 
brother  Simon  de  Alkebarowe  monk  his  fellow,  John  vicar  of  Redburn, 
Roger  Rogenson  of  Kirketon,  Robert  Hikson  of  Alkebarowe,  Thomas 
de  Holflet,  Thomas  Hony,  Richard  de  Dra.\,  Thomas  Thwayt,  Robert 
Forester  of  Estoft,  Richard  Emson  of  CruUe,  William  Hayhouse,  William 
de  Raventhorp  and  Robert  Wilcok  of  all  personal  actions.  Dated 
Thursday  the  octaves  of  St.  Martin  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  before  John  de  W\'thorn\vyk, 
6  March  this  year,  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus  potestatem. 

Membrane  '2'Sd. 

Writing  of  John  Chamberleyn  of  Emberton,  giving  to  John  Parkere 
of  Olneye  the  first  vacancy  of  Emberton  church,  and  granting  that  he 
may  present  whom  he  will.  Dated  Olneye,  8  May  36  Edward  IIL 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
25  June  this  year. 

Charter  of  Edmund  son  and  heir  of  Edmund  Bolestrode,  giving  with 
warranty  to  William  de  Stokes  clerk,  John  Fit7.rychard  of  Olneye 
and  Hugh  Godard  chaplain,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  his  manor  of 
Prestle,  the  advowson  of  the  chapel  therein,  and  all  other  lands,  rents 
and  services  in  Prestle  and  Flitwyk  co.  Bedeford  which  came  to  him 
by  inheritance  after  his  said  father's  decease,  with  wards,  marriages, 
reliefs,  escheats  etc. ,  granting  them  likewise  the  re\'ersion  of  all  lands  now 
held  of  him  for  life  by  Maud  his  mother,  and  giving  them  all  the  lands, 
rents  and  services  demised  by  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Wardon  to 
his  said  father  and  nlother  and  to  him  the  said  Edmund  the  son  for 
their  lives  to  hold  by  the  service  of  one  pair  of  gloves  at  Michaelmas 
and  Easter  by  even  portions.  Witnesses  :  John  Hay,  John  Wake, 
Thomas  de  Stepyngle,  Edmund  Mattheu,  Henry  Watkenes,  Edmund 
Pecok,  John  Jurdon.  Dated  Prestle,  Saturday  after  Midsummer 
47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknoA^iedgment,  25  June. 

Writing  of  John  abbot  of  Selby  and  the  convent,  being  a  general 
release  to  William  Bene  of  Gerlethorp,  Robert  de  Gerlethorp  clerk, 
Thomas  de  Gerlethorp  clerk  and  William  de  Gerlethorp  clerk  his  sons, 
and  Joan  ^\•ife  of  John  Uttyng  of  Folquardby  his  daughter,  of  all  actions 
real  and  personal.     Dated  Christmas  day  46  Edward  IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chapter  house  at  Selby  on 
Whitsunday  this  year  before  Roger  de  Fulthorp,  by  virtue  of  the  king's 
writ  of  dedimus  potestatem. 

Charter  of  William  de  Chaworth,  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  de 
Chaworth  the  j^ounger  knight,  giving  w'\i\\  warranty  to  William  de 


47   EDWARD  III.  667 


1373.  Membrane  23d — cont. 

Spaigne  of  St.  Botolph,  Margaret  his  wife  mother  of  the  said  William 
de  Chaworth  and  Thomas  Claymond  of  Hole,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
his  manors  of  Altirton  and  Norton  co.  Derby,  all  lands,  rents  and  services 
of  free  tenants  and  villeins,  and  the  reversions  of  all  tenants  for  life 
or  years  therein,  and  all  other  lands  of  such  tenants  in  the  said  towns 
or  elsewhere  in  that  county  to  the  said  manors  belonging.  Witnesses  : 
Frederick  de  Tilney  of  St.  Botolph,  Richard  de  Neuton  of  the  same, 
James  de  Skirbek  of  the  same,  John  P*ell  of  Leek,  John  Magelyn  of 
Wvgtoft,  Geoffrey  (sic)  Foljamp  the  younger,  Henry  de  Adcrlcye, 
Anker  Frechexyle,  Adam  de  Goteham.  Dated  the  town  of 
St.  Botolph,  Monday  after  Midsummer  47  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  William  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  de  Chaworth  the  younger 
knight,  being  a  letter  of  attorney  to  Jolin  Bell  of  Leek  and  Thomas  de 
Toft  of  St.  Botolph  to  deliver  to  William  de  Spaigne  of  St.  Botolph, 
Margaret  his  wife  mother  of  the  said  William  son  of  Thomas,  and 
Thomas  Claymond  of  Hole  seisin  of  the  manors  of  Alfirton  and  Norton 
CO.  Derby,  Marnham  and  Osberton  co.  Notyngham,  the  lands,  rents  and 
services  of  free  tenants  and  villeins  therein,  the  reversions  of  tenants 
for  life  or  years,  and  all  other  lands  of  such  tenants  there  or  in  those 
counties  to  the  said  manors  belonging.     Dated  (as  the  last). 

Writing  of  William  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  de  Chaworth  the  younger 
knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  William  de  Spaigne  of 
St.  Botolpli  and  Margaret  his  wife  mother  of  the  said  William  son  of 
Thomas,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Edwalton  co. 
Notyngham  with  the  services  of  free  tenants  and  villeins,  the 
reversions  of  all  tenants  for  life  or  years,  and  all  other  lands  there  or 
elsewhere  in  that  county  to  the  said  manor  belonging.  Witnesses  : 
Frederick  de  Tilney,  Richard  de  Neuton,  James  de  Skirbek  of 
St.  Botolph,  John  Bell  of  Leek,  John  Magelyn  of  Wvgtoft,  Gervase  de 
Cliffeton,  Robert  son  of  the  said  Gervase  knights,  Robert  Martille, 
W^illiam  Pynder,  John  Mauncy.     Dated  [as  above). 

Writing  of  William  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  de  Chaworth  the  3'ounger 
knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  William  de  Spaigne  of 
St.  Botolph  and  Margaret  his  wife  mother  of  the  said  William  son  of 
Thomas,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Wadeworth  co.  York, 
the  services  of  all  free  tenants  and  villeins  and  the  reversions  of  all 
tenants  for  life  or  years,  and  all  other  lands  in  W'adeworth  or  elsewhere 
in  that  county  to  the  said  manor  belonging.  Witnesses  :  Frederick 
de  Tilney,  Richard  de  Neuton,  James  de  Skirbek  of  St.  Botolph,  John 
Bell  of  Leek,  John  Magelyn  of  Wvgtoft,  Robert  de  Morton,  Robert 
Rypers,  John  Berkhamstede,  Henry  de  Titerslee.     Dated  {an  above). 

Writing  of  William  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  de  Chaworth  the  younger 
knight,  being  a  (piitclaim  with  warranty  to  William  de  Spaigne  of 
St.  Botolph  and  Margaret  his  wife  mother  of  the  said  William  son  of 
Thomas,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Medburn  co. 
Leycester,  all  lands,  rents  and  services  of  free  tenants  and  villeins,  the 
reversions  of  all  tenants  for  life  or  years  therein,  and  all  other  lands 
of  such  tenants  in  that  town  or  elsewhere  in  that  county  to  the  said 
manor  belonging.  Witnesses  :  Frederick  de  Tilnej',  Richard  de  Neuton, 


568 


CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1373. 


Membrane  2'id — cow/. 


James  de  Skirbek  of  St.  Botolph,  John  Hell  of  Leek,  John 
Magelyn  of  VVvgtoft,  Richard  de  Foxton,  Williaiu  Dexter,  Hugh  de 
Heniyngtoii.  James  atte  Broke,  William  Cade,  Walter  Harbard  of 
Mcdburn.     Dated  {as  above). 

Writing  of  William  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  de  Chaworth  the  younger 
knight,  being  a  general  release  to  William  de  Spaigne  of  St.  Botolph 
and  Margaret  his  wife  mother  of  the  said  William  son  of  Thomas  of  all 
actions  real  and  personal  by  reason  of  trespass,  plaint,  strife,  debt, 
account,  contract,  covenant,  digging  of  coal,  falling  and  waste  of  wood 
and  houses  or  any  other  cause.  Dated  the  town  of  St.  Botolph, 
Tuesday  after  Midsummer  47   Edward   IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writings  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster,  29  June. 

July  16.  Richard  Michel  to  John  de  Holand,  Walter  Campion  of  Herlowe 

Westminster,  and  William  Chaumberleyn  of  Herlowe.     Recognisance  for  200^.,  to 
be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Kent. 


Membrane  22d. 

June  23.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  cause  proclamation 
Westminster,  to  be  made  in  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London  on  the  king's  behalf 
that  all  men  at  arms,  armed  men  and  archers  in  the  retinue  of  the  king's 
son  John  king  of  Castile  and  Leon  and  duke  of  Lancaster  and  of 
other  lords  and  nobles  appointed  to  sail  on  the  king's  service  over  sea 
shall  under  pain  of  imprisonment  and  forfeiture  draw  with  all  speed 
to  the  sea  where  the  said  lords  now  are  upon  their  passage,  thence  to 
sail  as  b}'  the  form  of  their  retainer  they  are  bound  to  do,  so  that  after 
]VIidsummer  day  next  none  of  them  be  found  in  the  said  city  and 
suburbs  under  the  pain  aforesaid ;  as  the  said  lords  have 
journeyed  to  the  sea  upon  their  passage,  and  great  number  of  their 
retinue  are  yet  in  the  said  city  and  suburbs. 
[Feeder  a.] 

June  18.  To  brother  Robert  de  Hales  prior  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John  of 
Hadleigh.  Jerusalem  in  England.  Order,  under  pain  of  forfeiture,  in  all  wise 
to  take  order  and  cause  himself  and  all  the  brethren  of  his  order  within 
the  realm,  being  of  the  king's  allegiance,  to  be  armed,  arrayed  as  well 
mounted  as  otherwise,  and  ready  every  man  according  to  his  estate  to 
serve  and  aid  the  king  for  defence  of  the  realm  against  the  invasion  of 
his  enemies  when  need  be  upon  warning  received  on  the  king's  behalf, 
and  strict  prohibition  on  his  allegiance  under  the  same  pain  against 
passing  out  of  the  realm  over  sea  or  suffering  any  of  his  brethren 
for  an}'  cause  so  to  pass  without  the  king's  special  licence  ;  as  the  French 
the  king's  enemies,  and  the  Spaniards  their  adherents,  are  daily  making 
ready  and  striving  to  inflict  such  hurt  as  they  may  by  land  and  sea 
upon  the  king  and  all  his  subjects  and  upon  the  realm,  wherefore  the 
king  must  needs  make  the  utmost  provision  in  every  way  possible 
for  the  safety  and  defence  thereof.  By  K. 

[Ibid.] 

To    brother   Richard   de   Everton   turcopolier   and   visitor   of   the 
Hospital  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England.     Order  on  sight  of  these 


47    EDWARD    III.  569 


1373.  Membrane  22d — cont. 

presents  to  make  ready  and  array  himself  as  well  with  armour  as  with 
mounts  and  other  things  needful  to  serve  and  aid  the  king  (a^  above), 
and  striet  prohil)ition  under  the  like  pain  against  passing  himself  or 
sending  his  goods  out  of  the  realm  without  the  king's  special  licence  ; 
as  the  French  etc.  (as  above).  By   K. 

Writing  of  Henry  de  Couley,  being  a  grant  with  warranty  to  Thomas 
de  Foliot,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  his  estate  in  the  keeping  and  bailiwick 
of  Bisshopuswode  within  Malverne  chace  and  the  profits  thereof, 
which  keeping  and  bailiwick  William  sometime  bishop  of  Wircestre, 
with  assent  of  John  prior  of  Wircestre  and  the  convent,  granted  to  him 
the  said  Henry  for  life  taking  yearly  one  bushel  of  wheat  a  week  and 
Id.  a  week  of  the  said  bishop's  manor  of  Bredon  with  all  other  profits 
to  the  said  bailiwick  pertaining  of  old  time.  Witnesses  :  Richard 
parson  of  Holy  Trinity  Gloucestre,  William  Foliot,  John  Gassy, 
Richard  Ryall.  ^  Dated  London,  23  June  47  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 

23  June. 

Writing  of  Isabel  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  de  Huntyngfeld  in  her 
widowhood,  being  a  quitclaim  to  John  Carru,  Walter  Walssch  and 
Robert  de  la  More  and  to  their  heirs  of  all  her  right  of  dower  in  the  manor 
of  Westwykham  co.  Kent.  Witnesses  :  William  de  Wychyngham 
knight,  Richer  de  Wychyngham,  Xicholas  de  Wychyngham,  Robert 
son  of  Robert  de  Corby,  John  de  Yelverton,  Thomas  de  Fo.xle.  Dated 
Wychyngham,  Sunday  the  octaves  of  Easter  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Wychyngham,  29  June  before 
William  de  Wj'chyngham,  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus 
potestatem. 

Charter  of  John  de  Norwico  knight,  granting  with  warranty  to 
Sir  John  Playce,  Sir  Robert  Howard,  Sir  Roger  de  Boys  knights,  John 
de  Boys,  John  de  Wolterton  parson  of  Harpele,  Adam  de  Cokefeld 
parson  of  Salle,  Ellis  de  Byntre  parson  of  Dalham  and  Rej'nold  de 
Eccles,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  the  reversion  of  the  manors  of 
Ilketelcshale  called  Wellyngtones  and  Thoryton,  the  lands  in  Ilketeles- 
hale  sometime  of  Oliver  de  Stratton,  and  the  lands  there  called 
Fittoncs,  now  held  for  life  by  Hervey  de  Welliam  of  the  grantor's 
heritage  with  reversion  to  him  and  his  heirs,  and  the  reversion  of  the 
lands  in  ^^'hanhaston  and  Thoriton  now  held  for  life  by  John  de 
Dunmow  e  of  the  grantor's  heritage  with  reversion  to  him  and  his  heirs. 
Witnesses  :  Sir  John  de  Brewes,  Sir  John  de  Argentem,  Sir  John  de 
Hulueston  knights,  Richard  Dautres,  Robert  Garveys,  Walter  Buk. 
Dated  Met\-ngham,  Wednesday  before  St.  Barnabas  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 

24  June. 

Writing  of  William  de  Thorp  and  Robert  de  Thorp  knights,  executors 
of  Sir  William  de  Thorp  knight  their  father,  being  a  release  to  John  de  la 
Pole  knight,  son  and  heir  of  W^illiam  de  la  Pole  knight,  John  Bataille, 
Williom  L3-ndesele  and  Robert  Antoigne,  executors  of  the  said  Sir 
William  de  la  Pole,  of  all  actions  for  debt  by  reason  of  any 
recognisances  made  by  Sir  William  de  la  Pole  to  Sir  William  Thorp 


570  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  22d — cont. 

in  any  the  king's  courts  whatsoever  or  elsewliere.     Dated  London, 
27  January  47  Edward  IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  24  June. 

Charter  indented  of  William  Bardolf  lord  of  Wirmcgcyc,  giving 
with  warranty  to  William  Walcote  for  life  the  manor  of  Doo.s  co.  Hert- 
ford with  the  a])purtenances,  paying  yearly  to  the  grantor  and  his  heirs 
one  rose  at  Midsummer  ;  also  granting  to  the  said  William  Walcote 
that  he  shall  be  his  chief  chamberlain  for  life,  taking  all  fees  which 
pertain  to  that  office.  Witnesses  :  Adam  de  Clifton  knight,  Ralph  de 
Foley  knight,  Robert  Mayiu,  Nicholas  de  Massyngham,  Robert 
Alisaundre.     Dated  London,  24  June  47  Edward  III.     French. 

Charter  of  William  Bardolf  lord  of  Wirmegeye,  giving  with  warranty 
to  Simon  Norreys  rector  of  Castre,  Nicholas  de  Massyngliam,  Nicholas 
Blauwere,  Nicholas  Horsete  and  Richard  Blake  citizen  of  London,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  the  manor  of  Berlyng  with  the  rent  of  Bcrwyk  co. 
Sussex,  the  manors  of  Wynbergh  and  Cantelee  co.  Nortfolk,  w  ith  the 
advowsons  of  churches  to  the  same  pertaining.  Witnesses  :  Adam 
de  Clifton  knight,  John  de  Wilton  knight,  Ralph  Foley  knight,  Robert 
Mayiu,  Robert  Alisaundre.     Dated  London,  24  June  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charters, 
24  June. 

Charter  of  William  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  de  Chaworth  knight  the 
younger,  giving  with  warranty  to  William  de  Spaigne  of  St.  Botolph 
and  Margaret  his  wife  mother  of  the  said  William  son  of  Thomas,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  all  lands,  rents  and  services,  meadows,  feedings 
and  pastures,  and  all  reversions  of  tenants  for  life  or  years  which  at 
this  date  the  grantor  has  in  Leicestreshire.  Witnesses  :  Frederick 
deTylnay  of  St.  Botolph,  Simon  Fatmane  of  Leicestreshire,  Richard  de 
Fouxton  of  the  same,  William  Dexter  of  Haluton.  Hugh  de 
Hemmyngton  of  Medburn,  John  de  atte  Bioke  {sic),  William  Cade, 
John  de  Manton,  Walter  Harberd  of  the  same,  John  atte  Welle.  Dated 
Medburn,  Monday  after  Midsummer  47  Edward  IIL 

Writing  of  William  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  de  Chaworth  knight 
the  younger,  being  a  letter  of  attorney  to  William  Dexter  and  Thomas  de 
Toft  to  deliver  to  William  de  Spaigne  of  St.  Botolph  and  Margaret 
his  wife,  mother  of  the  said  William  son  of  Thomas,  seisin  of  all  his 
lands,  rents,  services,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures  etc.,  and  of  the 
reversions  of  his  tenants  for  life  or  years  in  Leicestreshire,  according 
to  his  charter  of  feoflfment  to  them  made.     Dated  {as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  29  June. 

July  7.  John   de   Rythre   to   Richard   de   Raveneser   clerk.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  10  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Yorkshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

July  8.  Hugh    Crane    of    Winchester    to    Richard    de    Raveneser    clerk. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  SOL,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


47    EDWARD    III. 


571 


1373,  Membrane  2ld. 

Charter  of  William  de  Chaworth,  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  de  Chaworth 
the  younger  kiiisfht..  giving  with  warranty  to  William  de  Spaigne  of 
St.  Hotolph,  Margaret  his  wife  mother  of  the  said  William  son  of 
Thomas,  and  Thomas  Claymond  of  Hole,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  his 
manors  of  Marnham  and  Osborton  eo.  Xotyngham,  all  his  lands,  rents, 
services  of  free  tenants  and  villeins,  and  the  reversions  of  all  his  tenants 
for  life  or  years  therein,  and  all  other  lands  of  such  tenants  in  those 
towns  or  elsewhere  in  that  county  to  the  said  manors  belonging. 
Witnesses  :  Frederick  de  Tilneye  of  St.  Botolph,  Richard  de  Neuton 
of  the  same.  James  de  Skirbek  of  the  same,  .John  Bell  of  Leek,  John 
Magelyn  of  Wygtoft.  Sir  Robert  de  Clifton  knight,  Robert  de  Morton, 
Richard  Putrell,  Robeit  Martill,  Robert  atte  Wode  of  Marnham. 
Dated  the  town  of  St.  Botolph,  Monday  after  Midsummer  47  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  William  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  de  Chaworth  the  j'ounger 
knight,  being  a  ijuitclaim  with  warranty  to  William  de  Spaigne  of 
St.  Botolph  and  Margaret  his  wife  mother  of  the  said  William  son  of 
Thomas,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Osberton  co.  Xotyng- 
ham, the  services  of  free  tenants  and  villeins  and  the  reversions  of  his 
tenants  for  life  or  years,  and  of  all  other  lands  in  Osberton  or 
elsewhere  to  the  said  manor  belonging.  Witnesses  :  Frederick  de 
Tilnev,  Richard  de  Xeuton,  James  de  Skirbek  of  St.  Botolph,  John 
Bell  of  Leek,  John  Magclyne  of  WVgtoft,  Robert  de  ClilTeton  knight, 
Robert  de  Morton,  Richard  Poutrill,  Oliver  de  Barton,  Robert  Martill. 
Dated  (as  the  las/.). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  29  June. 

July  2.  Richard  Cardell  of  Evere  to  John  Barbour  of  Colbroke.  Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  20^,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Bukinghamshire. 


John     Barbour     of     Colbroke     to     Richard     Cardell     of 
Recognisance  for  20/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Bukinghamshire. 


Evere. 


June  30.  To  William  de  Fyncheden  and  Roger  de  Fulthorp  justices  of  assize 
Westminster,  in  Yorkshire.  Order,  if  in  an  assize  of  novel  disseisin  before  them 
arraigned  by  Gilbert  de  Hornbv  and  Cicelv  his  wife,  Thomas  Wynter 
and  Maud  his  wife  and  Ellen  de  Westmerland  against  Ellen  who  was 
wife  of  John  de  Mappilton,  John  de  Wvrall  and  Adam  Barbour 
concerning  tenements  in  Kyngeston  upon  Hull  proceedings  were 
had  as  hereinafter  mentioned,  to  proceed  with  such  speed  as  may 
be  to  take  that  assize,  doing  full  justice  to  the  parties,  the  allegation 
made  by  Adam  Ros  as  bailiff  of  the  defendants  notwithstanding,  so 
that  they  proceed  not  to  rendering  of  judgment  without  advising  the 
king  ;  as  the  plaintiffs  have  shewn  the  king  that  the  said  bailiff'  in  his 
pleading  alleged  that  the  tenements  put  in  view,  namely  two  messuages 
and  the  appurtenances,  were  lately  seized  into  the  king's  hand  by  the 
escheator,  by  colour  whereof  the  said  justices  have  hitherto  deferred 
to  proceed  in  that  assize,  wherefore  they  have  prayed  the  king  to  give 
order  so  to  proceed  ;  and  finding  by  certificate  of  William  Ergom 
the  escheator,  sent  into  chancery  at  the  king's  connnand,  that  about 
Easter  in  the  29th  year  of  the  reign  Robert  de  Mappilton  late  tenant  of 
the  premises  committed  a  felony  by  slaying  Maud  his  wife,  and  that 


572  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    110LL.S. 


1373.  Membrane  2ld — cont. 

for  that  cause  the  same  are  in  the  king's  hand,  it  seemed  to  tlic  king 
that  the  said  cause  was  insufficient,  and  he  ordered  the  said  escheator 
to  remove  his  hand  and  meddle  no  further  therewith,  if  in  his  hand 
for  the  cause  aforesaid  and  for  none  other  ;  and  the  king  woukl  not  that 
justice  be  longer  delayed. 

Writing  of  iJohn  son  and  heir  of  William  de  la  Hyde  of  Wetherisfeld 
CO.  Essex,  granting  with  warranty  to  John  de  Neuport  of  Essex  and 
Isabel  his  wife,  mother  of  the  said  John  son  of  William,  and  to  their 
assigns  for  their  lives  and  one  year  longer  all  the  lands  which  they  now 
hold  in  Wetherisfeld  without  exception,  quit  and  free  of  all  action  for 
waste  now  or  hereafter  taken  and  of  all  claim  for  that  cause.  Dated 
Little  Wenden,  Tuesday  after  St.  Matthew  45  Ed«ard  IlL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  July  this  year. 

Writing  of  Ralph  de  Restwold,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Richard  carl  of  Arundell,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of 
Tortynton    co.    Sussex.      Dated  Tortynton,   1   July  47  Edward  III, 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  July. 

July  5.  Thomas  de  la  Marc  of  Berkshire  to  Thomas  de  Chelrey.  Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  200/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in   Berkshire. 

Thomas  de  la  Mare  of  Berkshire  to  John  Fynk.  Recognisance  for 
200/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  as  before. 

Charter  of  Robert  de  Kelby  rector  of  Helpringham  and  John  de 
Kynggesfold,  giving  with  warranty  to  Sir  William  Latymer,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  a  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Multon,  a  third  part  of  a  third 
part  of  the  manor  of  Flete  co.  Lincoln,  an  inn  in  the  parish  of  St.  Olave 
in  the  Old  Jewry  London,  and  50s.  of  rent  in  London,  which  the}'  had 
by  gift  and  feoffment  of  Walter  iitz  Wauter  lord  of  Wodeham.  Dated 
London,  4  July  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  6  July. 

Writing  of  William  de  Plumley  and  Robert  le  Eyer,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Robert  de  Plumpton  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  a  messuage,  four  tofts,  nine  bovates  2  acres  1  rood  of  land  in 
Gressyngton  in  Craven.  Dated  Gersyngton,  Sunday  before 
Michaelmas  46  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Doncastre,  Saturday  the  eve 
of  Pentecost  this  year  before  Thomas  de  Ingelbi,  by  virtue  of  the  king's 
writ  of  dedimus  potestaiem. 

July  6.  Edward  de  Twyford  knight  to  Walter  Huwet  knight.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  20/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Derbyshire. 

July  7.  Richard   son   of   John   de   Brayton   to   William  de  Mirfeld    clerk. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  4/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Yorkshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


47    EDWARD    III.  573 


1373.  Membrane  20d. 

Charter  of  Roger  de  Astwvk,  giving  with  warranty  to  the  king  and  his 
heirs  12  acres  of  hind,  an  island,  rent  and  service  which  Geoffrey 
de  Pertico  and  Maud  his  wife  by  charter  gave  to  Stephen  son  of  Odin 
ancestor  of  the  said  Roger  and  to  his  lieirs,  whose  heir  he  the  said 
Roger  is,  namely  the  island  called  la  Ruwesand  and  all  the  rent  and 
service  done  hy  the  land  which  Benedict  sometime  held,  w  ith  surrender 
and  quitclaim  of  any  right  hy  reason  of  the  said  charter  or  of  the 
king's  grant  iji  the  keeping  of  Haddele  park,  now'  in  the  said  Roger's 
hand  ;  and  whereas  by  the  same  charter  they  granted  to  the  said 
Stejihen  that  he  and  his  heirs  should  have  herbage  for  five  beasts,  and 
should  ha\e  one  horse  and  five  pigs  (piit  of  paimage  in  the  said  park 
for  ever,  all  logs  and  branches  wind  fallen,  and  the  lop  and  top  of  all 
trees  cut  down,  if  not  cut  down  for  tlie  use  of  the  castle  there  or  sold, 
and  of  every  deer  killed  otic  shoulder,  which  charter  the  king  by 
letters  patent  confirmed  save  the  grant  concerning  pigs,  and  in  recom- 
pense for  the  same  granted  that  the  said  Roger  and  his  heirs  should 
have  for  ever  herbage  in  the  said  park  for  four  oxen  or  kine  over  and 
above  the  horse  and  beasts  aforesaid,  surrender  and  quitclaim  of 
pannage  for  the  said  beasts,  horse  and  pigs,  of  logs  and  branches  wind 
fallen,  lop  and  top  or  shoulders  of  deer  in  the  said  park,  or  other 
profits  and  commodities  therein.  Witnesses  :  William  lord  de  Latymer 
the  chamberlain,  John  Knyvet  the  chancellor,  Richard  Lescrope  the 
treasurer,  Nicholas  de  Carren  keeper  of  the  privy  seal,  William  Strete. 
Dated  Westminster,  20  June  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
21  June. 

Charter  of  Richard  de  Clyvedon,  giving  with  warranty  to  John  Payn 
armourer  and  citizen  of  London  and  John  Beyvyn  of  Somerset,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  all  his  lands,  the  rents  and  services  of  all  his  tenants, 
the  reversions  after  their  deaths  etc.  in  the  towns  and  parishes  of 
Coryvell,  Lamport  and  Huw^'ssh  Episcopi.  Witnesses  :  John 
Beauchamp  of  Lillesdon,  John  Streche,  John  Lort}',  John  Burton, 
^^'illiam  atte  Water.     Dated  17  June  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  16  July. 

Writing  of  Hugh  Aldresshote  citizen  of  London,  being  a  gift  and  quit- 
claim with  warranty  to  John  W^iltesshire  citizen  and  pepperer  of 
London  and  Joan  his  wife,  and  to  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said 
John,  of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  which  they  have  in  the  towns 
and  fields  of  Hoydon  and  Great  Chishull  co.  Essex  and  which 
were  sometime  of  Richard  Kelshull  and  of  John  Kelshull  uncle  of  the 
said  Hugh  ;  and  general  release  of  all  actions,  claims  and  demands 
real  and  personal.  Dated  Hoydon,  1  July  47  Edward  III.  Witnesses  : 
Robert  Rokele,  William  atte  Wode,  John  Basset,  William  Manwode, 
Richard  Curteys  of  Essex. 

Memorandum  of  acknoAvledgment,  1  July. 

Writing  of  John  de  Neuport  of  Essex,  being  a  grant  and  demise, 
for  a  sum  of  money  in  hand  to  him  paid,  to  Reynold  parson  of 
Depedene,  Robert  de  Lambourne  parson  of  Wymbissh,  John 
Mayk\ai  parson  of  Little  Hallyngbery,  John  Haukewode  of  Gosfeld, 
Robert  de  Kediton,  John  Basset  of  ChyshuU  and  Walter  de  Claneford 
for  seven  years  of  aU  his  lands  in  Essex  except  and  reserved  the 


574 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  20(1 — conf. 

easement  of  houses  for  the  dwelling  of  him  and  his,  and  grant  and  sale 
of  all  his  goods  and  chattels  in  Essex  or  elsewhere  in  England  moveable 
and  immovable,  quick  and  dead,  a\  Inch  he  now  has  or  shall  have  within 
the  said  term.     Dated  1  October  4G  Edward  IlL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  29  June  this  year. 

June  29.         William    de    Nessefeld    to    William    Oamboun.     Recognisance    for 
Westminster.  200  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Yorkshire. 

July  6.  William    Baldewyne   citizen   and   saddler   of   London    to    Richard 

Westminster.  Vyncent  parson  of  St.  Sitha  London,  John  Berdene,  John  Stamer 
and  Thomas  Yonge.  Recognisance  for  200/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  the 
city  of  London. 


Membrane  I9rf. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Robert  de  Neville  of  Hornby  knight 
and  Elizabeth  his  wife  on  tlie  one  part  and  John  son  of  John  de  Kirkeby 
of  the  other  part,  reciting  a  statute  merchant  made  in  the  staple  of 
Westminster  whereby  the  said  John  is  bound  to  pay  200L  to  the  said 
Robert  and  Elizabeth  at  certain  set  terms,  and  a  fine  between  the 
parties  levied  in  the  king's  court  in  the  quinzaine  of  Trinity  last  of  the 
manor  and  advowson  of  Horton  by  Derteford,  whereby  the  said  Robert 
and  Elizabeth  released  with  warranty  to  the  said  John  and  his  heirs 
during  the  said  Elizabeth's  life  two  thirds  of  the  .said  manor  and 
advowson  subject  to  a  yearly  rent  of  lOJ  marks  and  half  a  quarter 
of  wheat  at  Christmas  and  Midsummer  by  even  portions  during  the 
first  six  years,  and  afterwards  of  21  marks  and  one  quarter  of  wheat 
at  the  same  feasts,  reserving  power  to  distrain  for  arrears,  and  with 
further  warranty  during  the  life  of  the  said  Elizabeth,  if  she  shall  overlive 
Alice  \\ho  was  wife  of  John  de  Kirkeby  knight,  of  the  reversion  of  the 
third  part  of  the  said  manor  and  advowson,  now  held  in  dower  of 
the  said  John's  heritage  bj^  the  said  Alice  with  reversion  to  the  said 
Robert  and  Elizabeth,  subject  to  a  yearly  rent  of  10|  marks  and 
4  bushels  of  wheat  at  the  aforesaid  feasts,  reserving  like  power  to 
distrain  ;  and  witnessing  the  defeasance  of  the  said  statute  merchant, 
upon  condition  that  the  said  John  or  his  heirs,  their  assigns  or  some 
other  in  their  name  shall  in  the  church  of  Horton  during  the  said 
Elizabeth's  life  pay  or  cause  to  be  paid  to  the  said  Robert  or 
Elizabeth  the  several  rents  in  the  said  fine  contained  at  the  daj's 
therein  mentioned ,  provided  that  the  pain  of  200/.  be  levied  if  such  rent 
be  one  month  in  default  after  any  of  the  said  feasts ;  and  covenant  by 
the  said  Robert  that,  in  case  the  said  Elizabeth  overlive  him  and 
when  she  be  sole  make  not  in  her  own  name  a  like  defeasance  Avhenever 
required,  she  shall  take  no  advantage  by  the  said  statute,  but  the 
same  shall  be  hereby  released,  pardoned  and  annulled.  Dated  London, 
11  July  47  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  12  July. 

Charter  indented  of  William  Walsham,  giving  to  Roger  Keterich 
and  Agnes  his  wife,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  the  manor  called 
Grantcortes  and  all  his  lands,  rents  and  services  etc.  in  the  towns  of 
Felstede,  Great  Salyngg,  Great  Reyne  and  Little  Reyne,  upon  the 


47   EDWARD  Til.  575 


1373.  Membrane  I9d — cont. 

conditions  following,  to  wit  that  if  the  said  Williain  within  one  year 
after  this  date  pay  not  100  marks  at  Shaldeford,  the  said  Roger  and 
Agnes  sliall  liold  the  premises  for  tlieir  lives  ;  that  if  thoy  die  within 
fourteen  years  from  Easter  next  the  executors  of  the  survivor  shall 
hold  the  premises  until  that  term  shall  he  accomplished  ;  that  if  the 
money  he  not  paid  so  that  the  freehold  shall  accrue  to  them  for  their 
lives,  and  the  further  term  in  case  of  their  death  as  aforesaid,  and  they 
or  the  said  executors  shall  for  the  term  aforesaid  peaceably  hold  and 
enjoy  the  same,  and  likewise  if  the  money  he  paid  and  they,  their 
assigns  or  executors  shall  peaceably  hold  and  enjoy  the  premises  until 
Easter  next  and  thenceforward  for  a  term  of  fourteen  years  without  being 
by  the  said  William  or  his  heirs  or  by  any  in  his  name  thrust  out, 
molested  or  impeached  for  waste,  this  charter  of  feoffment  shall  be 
altogether  annulled.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Thomas  de  Maundeville  knight, 
Sir  Henry  de  Coggeshale  knight,  Edmund  Warner,  Robert  Knecchebole, 
Thomas  Houlot.  Dated  Felstede,  13  July  47  Edward  III.  French. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  13  July. 

July  15.  William  Croyser  knight  to  Edward  de  Kendale.     Recognisance  tor 

Westminster.  500  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Bedfordshire. 

Writing  of  Maud  daughter  of  Sir  Robert  de  Baiocis  knight  and  sister 
of  Sir  Richard  de  Baiocis  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Sir  Thomas  de  Bellocampo  earl  of  Warrewych,  Philip  parson  of 
Little  Casterton,  John  de  Wympton  and  John  vicar  of  Exton,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Conyngton  co. 
Huntyngdon  which  they  have  jointly  acquired  of  Katherine  .sometime 
the  wife  of  Sir  Richard  de  Baiocis  knight  for  term  of  her  life.  Witnesses  : 
Sir  William  Movgne,  Sir  John  Ragoun  knights.  John  de  Repynghale, 
Robert  de  Huntyngdon,  ^^'illiam  Mowyn.  Dated  Conyngton,  Monday 
the  Translation  of  St.  Benedict  the  Abbot  47  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Maud  daughter  of  Sir  Robert  de  Baiocis  knight  and 
sister  of  Sir  Richard  de  Baiocis  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Sir  William  de  Burton  knight  and  Eleanor  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs 
of  their  bodies  of  the  manor  of  the  Wodehalle  in  Arkysden  co.  Essex. 
Witnesses  :  Sir  Robert  Geddyng  knight,  John  Bataille.  Robert  de  la 
Rokele,  John  Lawe,  John  Drie.  Dated  Arkysden.  Thursday  the 
Translation  of  St.  Thomas  the  Martyr  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings,  15  July. 

Writing  of  Robert  son  of  Robert  de  Baiocis  knight,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Sir  William  de  Burton  knight  and  Eleanor  his  wife 
and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  of  the  manor  of  the  Wodehalle  in 
Arkysden  co.  Essex.  Witnesses  {as  the  last).  Dated  Arkisden,  Friday 
the  morrow  of  the  Translation  of  St.  Thomas  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  15  July. 

Membrane  isd. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Ikworth,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Richard  de 
Pakenham  and  Joan  his  wife,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of 


576 


CALENDAR    OF    OT.OSE    ROLLS. 


1373. 


Memtyrane  18<Z — cxmi. 

Asshfeld  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services  sometime  of  Sir  William 
Criketot  knight  in  the  towns  of  Creat  Asshfeld,  Little  Asshfeld, 
Himteston,  Langham,  VValsham,  Wyverston  and  Wetherden,  except 
the  lands  which  Aubrey  de  W,\'kes  formerly  ga\'e  to  William  Criketot 
and  Isabel  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  ;  also  of  the  manors 
of  Upwelle  and  Outwelle  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services  sometime  of 
Sir  William  Criketot  in  those  towns  as  well  in  XorfTolk  as  in 
Cambridgeshire.  Dated  4  April  47  Edward  IIL 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  8  July. 


July  8. 


John  de  Felton  knight,  John  Capoun  and  John  Belassise  to  Robert 
Westminster,  de  Muskliam  clerk.  Joint  and  se\eral  recognisance  for  20  marks, 
to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in 
Yorkshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

July  9.  Richard  de  Ravenser  clerk,  Roger  de  Eulthop  and  John  de   Akora 

Westminster,  clerk  to  Richard  Leserope  knight.     Recognisance  for  1,000  marks,  to 
be  levied  etc.   in   Yorkshire, 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  John  son  of  John  Husee,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Richard  earl  of  Arundell  and  Surrev.  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the 
manor  of  Westbechesworth  co.  Surrey  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services 
in  the  town  of  Westbechesworth  lately  held  by  Thomas  de  la  Ryver 
and  Isabel  his  wife  during  her  life.  Witnesses  :  Nicholas  de 
Lovaygne,  Simon  de  Codyngton,  William  de  Cobeham  knights,  John 
Kyngesfolde,  William  de  Neudegate.  Dated  Westminster,  9  July 
47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,.  9  Jul3\ 

Indenture  made  between  William  de  la  Rja^er,  son  of  John  de  la 
Ryver  lord  of  Brandesby,  and  Robert  de  Plesyngton,  being  a  grant 
and  lease  to  the  said  William  at  will  of  all  his  lands  as  well  in 
Brafferton  as  elscAvhere  in  Yorkshire,  which  lands  the  said  Robert 
has  of  his  grant  until  recompense  be  made  to  him  the  said  Robert  or 
his  executors  of  20  marks  by  the  said  William  received  of  him  as 
a  loan  before  the  feoffment  was  made.  Dated  Stretton  in  Craven, 
Monday  in  the  sixth  week  of  Lent  45  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  bj^  the  parties,  11  July  this  year. 

Indenture  made  between  William  son  of  John  de  la  Ryver  lord 
(domini)  of  Brandesb}'  and  Robert  de  Plesyngton,  reciting  a  gift 
and  feoffment  lately  made  to  the  said  Robert  bj'  the  said  William  of 
all  his  lands  as  well  in  the  town  of  Brafferton  as  elsewhere  in  Yorkshire 
to  hold  until  contented  of  20  marks  in  hand  paid  as  a  loan  to  the  said 
William,  a  grant  and  demise  of  the  premises  by  the  said  Robert  made 
to  the  said  William  to  hold  at  will,  and  a  quitclaim  thereof  made 
bj'  the  said  William  ;  and  witnessing  the  defeasance  of  the  feoffment 
and  quitclaim  aforesaid,  upon  condition  that  the  said  William  shall 
at  Stretton  in  Craven  pay  or  cause  to  be  paid  to  the  said  Robert  or  to 
his  attorney  40  marks,  of  him  received  as  a  loan,  on  Christmas  eve 
in  the  second  year  after  this  date,  the  first  year  beginning  on  the  date 
of  these  presents,  namely  within  a  year  and  a  half,  and  that  whenever 


47    EDWARD    III.  677 


1373.  Memfjrane  ISd — cont. 

and  as  often  as  required  by  the  said  Robert  or  by  any  other  in  his  name 
the  said  WilMam  shall  assure  to  the  said  Robert  and  to  his  heirs  for  ever 
the  lands  which  the  said  John  de  la  Ryver  has  in  the  town  of  Houk, 
as  by  his  counsel  the  said  Robert  will  appoint  ;  and  the  said  Robert 
covenants  hereby  to  pay  the  said  William  40/.  if  in  the  life  time  of  tlie 
said  John  father  of  William  he  the  said  Robert  shall  be  seised  in  fee  simple 
of  the  said  lands  in  Houk,  and  if  the  said  William  shall  assure  him 
thereof  as  by  his  counsel  he  shall  appoint,  atid  that  if  he  shall  not  be 
so  seised  in  the  said  John's  life  time,  and  after  the  said  John's  death  the 
said  William  shall  cause  him  to  be  enfeoffed  of  the  premises  in  Houk, 
he  shall  pay  the  said  William  100  marks  ;  and  the  said  William  has 
sworn  upon  the  gospels  faithfully  to  perform  on  his  part  all  things  in 
this  indenture  contained.  Dated  London,  Tuesday  after  the 
Translation  of  St.  Thomas  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  II  July. 

Writing  of  William  son  of  John  de  la  Ryver  lord  of  Brandesby, 
being  a  surrender  and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Robert  de 
Plesyngton,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  his  estate  in  all  the  lands  as 
well  in  the  town  of  Brafferton  as  elsewhere  in  Yorkshire  which  the  said 
Robert  lately  had  by  his  gift  and  feofTment.  Dated  London,  Monday 
after  the  Translation  of  St.  Thomas  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  11  July. 

July  13.  Walter  de  Lee  knight  to  Aubrey  de  Veer  knight.     Recognisance  for 

Westminster.  50/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Essex. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon 
condition  that  Sir  Aubrey  de  Veer,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  lose  not  the 
advowson  of  Farnham  co.  Essex  by  any  suit  to  be  moved  by  Margaret 
wife  of  Sir  Walter  de  Lee,  by  Sir  Adam  parson  of  Little  Berdefeld, 
or  by  the  heirs  of  the  body  of  Sir  John  de  Lee  father  of  the  said  Walter 
without  fraud  or  covin  upon  any  title  arising  before  this  date,  which 
advowson  Sir  Aubrey  has  of  Sir  Walter's  grant.  Dated  London, 
13  July  47  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,   13  July. 

Writing  of  Robert  son  of  Robert  de  Baiocis  knight,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Sir  Thomas  de  Bello  Campo  earl  of  Warrewych  and 
lord  of  Gower  (Gowerrie),  Philip  parson  of  Little  Casterton,  John  de 
Wympton  and  John  vicar  of  Exton,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor 
and  advowson  of  Conyngton  by  them  jointly  acquired  of  Katherine 
sometime  the  wife  of  Sir  Richard  de  Baiocis  knight  for  term  of  her 
life.  Witnesses  :  John  Ragoun,  Thomas  de  Burton  knights,  Ralph 
de  Walton,  John  Bowelles  of  Colmeworth,  John  Chanu  of  the  same. 
Dated  Bolnhurst,  Sunday  the  eve  of  Michaelmas  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  15  July  this  year. 

July  15.  Master  John  Cheyne  prebendary  of  Cherdestoke  in  the  church  of 

Westminster.  Salisbury  to  Nicholas  Carreu.  Recognisance  for  48  marks  payable 
by  instalments  ;  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Berkshire. 

CR  37 


578  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  \8d — cont. 

Defeasance  thereof,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Master  John  pay 
12  marks  at  Michaelmas  next,  and  12  marks  at  Easter  following. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Membrane  \ld. 

July  16.  To  the  sheriff  of  Surrey.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  atte 

Westminster.  Righte  and  John  atte  Welle,  by  mainprise  of  Roger  Stanyngden  and 
William  Clif  of  Surrey  to  stav  the  exigents  against  them  and  the  takinii 
of  their  bodies  ;  as  their  petition  shews  that  William  de  Neudegate 
is  impleading  them  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  for  an  alleged 
debt  of  10/.,  that  by  the  king's  writ  de  judicio  they  are  put  in  exigents 
in  Surrey  to  be  outlawed  for  that  they  came  not  before  the  said 
justices  to  answer  him,  and  that  they  are  ready  so  to  answer  and  stand 
to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Roger  and  William  Clif  have 
mainperned  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have  them  before  the 
said  Justices  the  day  the  said  writ  is  returnable. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Surrey.  Like  writ  oi  supersedeas,  mutatis  mutandis, 
upon  the  petition  of  Thomas  atte  Ook  parson  of  Elmesete,  shewing 
that  William  archbishop  of  Canterbury  is  impleading  him  in  the  king's 
court  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  for  an  alleged  debt  of  24  marks  ; 
as  Hugh  de  Gandeby  clerk  of  Notynghamshire  and  Roger  de  Welford 
clerk  of  Norhamptonshire  have  mainperned  etc.  {as  above)  under  a  pain 
of  20/. 

Writing  of  Emma  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  Cheynduyt,  being  a 
quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Master  John  Blaunchard  clerk,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Bereford  St.  Martin  co.  Wiltesir  which  the 
said  John  holds  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  William  Chusedene  cousin 
of  the  said  Emma,  also  of  a  yearly  rent  issuing  of  the  said  manor  which 
she  used  to  take  by  the  hands  of  the  said  W^illiam  late  tenant  thereof. 
Dated  Saturday  before  St.  Margaret  47  Edward  III. 

"Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,    18  July. 

Memorandum  that  on  20  July  this  year  in  the  chapel  of  the  House 
of  the  Converts  London  William  bishop  of  Winchester  caused 
certain  letters  of  resignation  or  renunciation  of  the  archdeaconry  of 
Lincoln  made  by  Giles  cardinal  priest  of  St.  Martin  in  Montihus  and 
sealed  by  Talayrand  cardinal  bishop  of  Albano  and  Guillermus 
cardinal  priest  of  St.  Mary  in  Transtevere  to  be  delivered  by  the  hands  of 
Master  John  de  Shepej'^e  to  Sir  John  de  Ravenser  instead  and  in  name 
of  Richard  de  Ravenser  archdeacon  of  Lincoln,  under  condition  that 
the  said  Richard  shall  under  a  pain  of  1,000/.  give  up  the  same  to  the 
said  bishop  or  his  attorney  or  to  the  prior  of  St.  Mary  Suthwerk  before 
the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next. 

And  after,  on  17  August  in  the  lodging  of  the  friars  preachers  London, 
in  presence  of  John  Knyvet  the  chancellor,  Richard  Lescrope  the 
treasurer  and  Nicholas  Carreu  keeper  of  the  privy  seal,  the  said 
Richard  de  Ravenser  gave  up  the  aforesaid  letters  to  the  said  prior. 

July  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  Bukingham.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Henry  de 

Westminster.  Lathebury,  Roger  Stafford,  John  Staunford  and  Richard  Aspele  of 

the  city  of  London  to  stay  the  further  publication  of  the  exigents 


47    EDWARD    III.  579 


1373.  Membrane  lid — cont. 

against  Ralph  Glovere  of  Lathebury  clerk  ;  as  on  his  behalf  the  king 
lias  learned  that  Roger  Austyn  of  Olney  '  bocher  '  is  impleading  him 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  for  an  alleged  trespass,  that  he  is  put 
in  exigents  in  that  county  to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came  not  before 
the  said  justices  to  answer  the  said  Roger,  being  wholly  without 
knowledge  of  that  process,  and  that  he  is  ready  to  answer  and  stand 
to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Henry  and  the  others,  appearing 
in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  201.  to  have  his 
body  before  the  said  justices  at  the  day  the  exigents  are   returnable. 

July  18,  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  and  the  collectors  of  custom  in  the  port  of 

Westminster.  London.  Order  in  that  port  to  suffer  Herman  de  Vyen  freely  to  pass 
without  let  towards  Zeland  with  two  yeomen  taking  his  wallets  and 
harness,  one  girdle,  one  silver  chain  and  10  marks  in  money  for  his 
expenses,  and  without  payment  of  custom  or  subsidy  to  the  king's 
use  to  take  thither  eight  '  coverlitz  '  and  eight  '  testers  '  of  red 
'  worstede,'  two  dozen  vessels  of  '  peautre,'  twelve  dozen  platters  of 
'  peautre,'  four  '  chargeours,'  two  cloths  of  '  kerse\','  two  pairs  of  basins, 
two  pairs  of  lavers  {lavalon'orum)  of  '  peautre,'  and  two  ells  of  woollen 
cloth  for  the  use  of  the  lords  of  Leek  and  Boteresham,  any  command 
of  the  king  to  them  previously  addressed  to  the  contrary 
notwithstanding. 


s' 


Charter  of  John  son  of  John  de  Brayton  of  Campsale,  giving  with 
warranty  to  John  de  Qucrneby  clerk,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  all  his  lands, 
meadows,  feedings,  pastures  etc.  in  the  town  of  Campsale  or  within 
the  bounds  of  that  parish  which  descended  by  inheritance  to  the  grantor 
after  the  death  of  John  his  father  and  Elizabeth  daughter  of  Nicholas 
de  Sutton  his  mother.  Witnesses  :  Edmund  de  Dronsfeld,  Henry  de 
BirkA-n,  William  Randolf,  John  de  Slephill  of  Campsale,  John  de 
Chartesej-e  of  Askarne.     Dated  Campsale,   16  July  1373. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  17  July. 

Indenture  made  between  John  de  Querneby  clerk  and  John  son  of 
John  de  Brayton  of  Campsale,  being  a  defeasance  of  the  foregoing 
,  charter   of   feoffment,    upon   condition   that   John   son    of  John   de 

Brayton  or  another  in  his  name  shall  pay  to  John  de  Querneby  or  to  his 
attorney  at  Campsale  9  marks  at  Whitsuntide  next,  and  9  marks  at 
Martinmas  following.     Witnesses  and  date  {as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  17  July. 

July  20.  To  the  mavor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Suthampton.     Order, 

Westminster,  as  they  love  the  king  and  his  honour  and  desire  the  safet}'  of  the  said 
town  and  the  parts  adjacent,  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  that 
no  man  of  the  town  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition  shall  under  pain 
of  forfeiture  depart  thence  to  abide  elsewhere,  nor  remove  his  wife, 
children,  household  or  goods,  but  shall  dwell  continually  therein 
upon  the  safe  guard  of  the  town,  and  to  arrest  and  keep  in  custody 
under  arrest  until  further  order  an^-  whom  they  shall  find  so  doing 
after  the  proclamation  ;  as  the  king  is  informed  that  great  number 
of  galleys  and  barges  of  his  enemies  are  at  sea  with  an  armed  power 
endeavouring  to  destroy  the  said  town  and  the  parts  adjacent,  if  their 
malice  be  not  manfully  resisted,  and  that  great  number  of  men  of  the 
town  have  departed  thence  to  divers  parts,  and  great  number  therein 


580  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  \ld — cent. 

remaining  are  purposing  to  do  likewise,  which  if  it  were  suffered  would 
tend  to  the  ruin  of  the  town  and  parts  adjacent  ;  and  the  king  would 
make  provision  for  the  safe  guard  thereof,  and  with  God's  help 
would  resist  the  malice  of  his  enemies. 

July  23.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  by  mainprise  of  William  Berford 

Westminster,  and  Ralph  Robert  of  Middlesex  to  stay  the  further  publication  of  the 
exigents  against  Thomas  Raulyn  in  the  busting  of  the  city  of  London  ; 
as  on  his  behalf  the  king  has  learned  that  John  Pecche  citizen  of 
London  is  impleading  him  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  render 
account  for  the  time  that  he  was  receiver  of  the  said  plaintiff's  moneys, 
that  he  is  put  in  exigents  in  the  said  busting  to  be  outlawed  for  that 
he  came  not  to  answer  before  the  said  justices,  and  that  he  is  ready 
so  to  answer  and  stand  to  riglit  in  all  things,  praying  a  stay  ;  and  the 
said  William  and  Ralph,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have 
mainperned  under  a  pain  of  40Z.  to  have  his  body  before  the  said  justices 
on  the  day  the  exigents  are  returnable. 

Membrane  I6d. 

Charter  of  Robert  Haunsard,  giving  with  warranty  to  Sir  Richard 
de  Ravenser  archdeacon  of  Lincoln,  John  de  Ravenser  clerk,  William 
de  Hoton  and  John  de  Wythornewyk  clerk,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
his  manor  of  Blaktoft  co.  York,  all  his  lands,  rents  and  ser^^ces  in 
Southkelsay  and  elsewhere  in  Lincolnshire,  the  advowson  of 
Thorneton  co.  Lincoln,  and  all  his  lands,  rents  and  services,  and  the 
reversions  of  tenants  \\liatsoever  in  Yorkshire  ;  and  grant  with  like 
warranty  of  the  reversion  of  the  manor  of  Southkelsaj^  now  held  of 
his  heritage  by  John  de  Rocheford  knight  and  Beatrice  his  wife  during 
the  life  of  the  said  Beatrice  with  reversion  to  the  said  Robert  and  to 
his  heirs.  Witnesses  :  Thomas  de  Sutton,  John  de  Hothom,  Simon 
de  Heslarton,  Gerard  de  Lound  knights,  James  de  Ravgate,  John  de 
Aske,  Peter  Ughtred,  Edmund  de  Kj^Uingwyk,  Adam  Coppendale  of 
Beverley,  John  TyrA^hit  of  the  same.  Dated  Beverley,  13  June 
47  Edw'ard  III. 

Writing  of  Robert  Haunsard,  being  a  letter  of  attorney  to  John  de 
Walmesford  and  Stephen  Percy  clerks,  John  de  Brakenholm  and  John 
W^arde  of  Clixebv  to  deliver  to  Sir  Richard  de  Ravenser  archdeacon 
of  Lincoln,  John  de  Ravenser  clerk,  William  de  Hoton  and  John  de 
Wythornewyk  clerk  seisin  of  the  manor  of  Blaktoft  co.  York,  all  his  lands, 
rents  and  services  in  South  Kelsay  and  elsewhere  in  Lincolnshire,  the 
advowson  of  Thorneton  co.  Lincoln,  and  all  his  lands,  rents  and  services 
and  the  reversions  of  tenants  whatsoever  in  Yorkshire,  according 
to  his  charter  thereof  made.  Dated  Beverle,  13  June  47  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing  at  EavcU  by  Dovorre,  Tuesday  July  5,  before  Thomas  de  Etton 
by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus  pofestatem. 

Charter  of  Walter  atte  Hale  parson  of  Kyselyngbury,  Henry  Beek 
and  Peter  de  Fauelore  chaplains,  giving  with  warranty  to  Sir  Warin  de 
Insula  knight  and  Margaret  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  the  said 
Warin's     body     the    manors     of    Kyngeston     Isle,    Fauelore    and 


47    EDWARD    III.  681 


1373.  Membrane  IQd — cojit. 

Batlielkyng  co.  Berkes,  Chilton  and  Leverton  cos.  Wylteshire  and 
Berkes  and  Sliiiburnc  co.  Oxford  which  they  liad  by  gift  and 
feoffment  of  Sir  Warin,  with  remainder  for  hick  of  such  an  heir  to  his 
right  heirs.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Robert  8ynieon,  Sir  Jolin  Gohvfre, 
Sir  Peter  Coke  knights,  Gilbert  Shotesbroke,  WiUiani  He3'croft,  John 
WakU'ii,  Riciiard  Heiberd.  Dated  Kyngeston  de  Isle,  Wednesday 
after  Midsummer  47  Edward  111. 

Meviorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
8  July. 

July  9.  Thomas   de    la    Ryvere    of    Wiltesir   and    Hugh    Crane    citizen   of 

Westminster.  Winchester  to  Richard  earl  of  Arundell  and  Surrey.     Joint  and  several 
recognisance  for  200/. ,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their 
lands  and  chattels  in  Wiltesir. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Indenture  tripartite,  made  at  London  3  July  47  Edward  III, 
between  Richard  earl  of  Arundell  and  Surrey  of  the  first  part,  John 
son  of  Jolni  Husee  of  the  second  part,  and  Thomas  de  la  Ryver  and 
Hugh  Craan  of  the  third  part,  witnessing  that  whereas  before  the 
release  hereinafter  mentioned  tlie  reversion  of  the  manor  of  W^est- 
bechesAN  orth  after  the  death  of  Isabel  wife  of  the  said  Thomas  pertained 
to  the  said  John  son  of  John  and  to  his  heirs,  and  whereas  by  deed 
enrolled  in  chancery  this  Trinity  term  he  has  made  to  the  said  earl 
a  release  and  (luitclaim  thereof  and  of  all  his  lands  in  that  town  with 
bond  for  warranty  of  the  premises  to  the  said  carl  and  his  heirs,  and 
whereas  the  said  earl  has  paid  him  for  that  release  400  marks,  and  has 
delivered  300  marks  to  the  said  Thomas  and  Hugh  as  intermediaries 
under  the  form  following,  to  wit  that  if  within  three  years  from  this 
date  the  earl  or  his  heirs  be  advised  that  his  estate  and  the  estate  of 
his  heirs  and  assigns  is  secured  thereby  or  by  other  security  by  the  said 
John  to  I^e  made  within  that  term,  or  if  the  said  John  die  within  that 
term  without  heir  of  his  body  his  wife  not  being  with  child,  the  said 
further  sum  of  300  marks  shall  be  paid  by  the  said  Thomas  and  Hugh, 
their  heirs  or  executors,  to  the  said  John  or  his  executors  without 
gainsaying,  and  if  the  said  earl,  liis  heirs  or  assigns,  may  not  have 
a  sure  estate  as  aforesaid,  and  so  it  shall  be  shewn  against  them  for 
sufficient  reasons,  the  said  John  or  his  heirs  shall  pay  again  the  said 
400  marks  to  the  said  earl,  his  heirs  or  executors,  and  the  said  Thomas 
and  Hugh  shall  likewise  upon  one  quarter's  warning  pay  again  to  them 
the  said  300  marks,  which  quarter  shall  be  within  the  term  of  three 
years  aforesaid,  and  the  warning  to  the  said  Thomas  and  Hugh  shall  be 
given  at  Wyncestrc,  and  to  the  said  John  likewise  at  Wyncestre  if 
he  may  there  be  found,  and  if  he  be  not  there  before  the  ma^'or  and 
bailiffs  of  the  town  as  if  he  were  present  ;  and  the  said  Thomas  and 
Hugh  hereby  promise  and  bind  themselves  well  and  truly  to  pay 
again  to  either  party  the  300  marks  in  the  manner  herein  declared 
without  fraud  and  covin,  and  after  repayment  of  the  said  700  marks 
the  earl,  his  heirs  or  assigns  being  thereof  tenants,  shall  straightway 
surrender  and  release  the  premises  to  the  said  John  or  his  heirs,  where- 
upon the  said  release  and  the  enrolment  thereof  shall  be  annulled, 
and  in  case  they  shall  not  so  do  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  said  John 
and  for  his  heirs  to  enter  and  hold  the  premises  to  him  and  his  heirs 
for  ever,  the  said  release  and  enrolment  i)otwithstanding  ;    and  the 


582  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Memhrant  16<i — cont. 

said  earl  covenants  that  a  statute  merchant  to  him  made  by  the  said 
John,  being  now  in  the  keeping  of  the  prior  of  Mertoti,  shall  be  forth- 
with delivered  to  the  said  John  after  that  the  release  be  made  and 
enrolled  as  aforesaid.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  John  son  of  John, 
Thomas  and  Hugh,  9  July. 

July  12.  Robert  Marioun  of  Melde bourne  to  John  de  Neuport.    Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  40/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Cambridgeshire. 

John  de  Holand  to  John  de  Wythornwyk  clerk.  Recognisance  for 
20/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Yorkshire. 

Richard  de  Goldesburgh  the  younger  knight  and  Richard  Brennand 
of  Knaresburgh  to  Richard  de  Raveneser  keeper  of  the  hanaper  of 
chancery.  Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  10/.,  to  be  levied  etc. 
in  Yorkshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  William  de  Walsham,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Richard  de 
Pakenham  and  Joan  his  wife,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of 
Asshefeld  and  all  lands,  vents  and  services  sometime  of  William 
Criketot  knight  in  the  towns  of  Great  Asshefeld,  Little  Asshefeld, 
Hunteston,  Langham,  Walsham,  Wyverston  and  Wetherden,  except 
the  lands  \\'hich  Aubrey  de  Wykes  gave  to  William  Criketot  and  Isabel 
his  Avife  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  ;  also  of  the  manors  of  Upwelle 
and  Outwelle  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services  sometime  of  the  said 
Sir  William  Criketot  in  those  towns  as  well  in  Norffolk  as  in 
Cambridgeshire.     Dated  4  April  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  12  July. 

Membrane  I5d. 

Wanting  of  Robert  Gre3ionde  citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London  and 
Amice  his  wife,  being  a  grant  and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John 
Philippot  citizen  and  merchant  of  London  and  Joan  his  wife,  their  heirs 
and  assigns  whatsoever,  of  all  right  which  they  or  either  of  them  or 
their  heirs  now  or  at  any  time  hereafter  may  have  in  the  3  roods  of  arable 
land  which  the  said  John  and  Joan  now  hold  by  grant  of  the  said  Robert 
and  Amice  in  the  fields  and  parish  of  Stebenhetli  co.  Middlesex,  lying  in 
breadth  between  a  ditch  called  the  Holledich  on  the  west  and  land  of  the 
said  John  and  Joan  on  the  east,  and  extending  in  length  from  land  of 
the  said  John  and  Joan  on  the  north  to  the  highway  of  Hacchestrete 
towards  the  south.  Witnesses  :  John  de  Gosbourne,  Maurice  de 
Cauxton,  John  '  Be  the  Wode,'  William  atte  Wyke,  John  Percok  of 
the  parish  of  the  Withechapell  (Whitechapell)  witliout  Algate  London. 
Dated  London,  Monday  the  feast  of  St.  Mark  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27  July, 

Writing  of  John  Greilonde.  son  and  heir  of  Robert  Greilonde  citizen 
and  fishmonger  of  London  and  of  Amice  his  wife,  being  a  grant  and 
quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  Philippot  citizen  and  merchant  of 
London  and  Joan  his  wife,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  those  lands  in  the 


47   EDWARD   III. 


583 


1373. 


Membrane  I5d — cont. 


fields  and  parish  of  Stebenheth  co.  Middlesex  which  the  said  John 
Philippot  and  Joan  lately  purchased  of  the  said  Robert  and  Amice. 
Witnesses  {as  the  last).  Dated  London,  Tuesday  tlie  Invention  of 
Holy  Cross  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27  July. 

July  26.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  by  mainprise'  of  Alan  de  Whiteby 

Westminster,  clerk,  William  de  Lokyngton,  William  Corbrigge  of  Yorkshire  and 
William  Berham  of  Middlesex  to  set  free  Ralph  de  Beverle  chaplain  from 
Neugate  prison,  although  lately  upon  information  received  that  he 
purposed  to  pass  to  foreign  parts,  there  to  prosecute  many  things  to 
the  prejudice  of  the  king  and  great  number  of  his  people,  the  king  by 
writ  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  cause  the  said  Ralph  to  come  before  them, 
and  to  compel  him  to  find  mainpernors  who,  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the 
sheriffs  laid  upon  them  for  which  the  slieriffs  would  answer,  would 
mainpern  him  that  without  the  king's  special  licence  he  should  not 
depart  nor  send  thither  in  order  to  prosecute  aught  or  cause  aught 
to  be  prosecuted  or  attempted  which  might  tend  to  contempt  of  the  king 
or  to  the  king's  prejudice  or  the  hurt  of  his  people,  and  if  he  siiould 
refuse,  to  commit  him  to  the  king's  prison  there  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody 
until  he  would  willingly  so  do,  by  virtue  of  which  command  the  said 
Ralph  is  taken  and  imprisoned  in  the  said  prison  ;  as  the  said  Alan 
and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned 
for  him  under  a  pain  of  201.  that  he  shall  not  depart  or  send  as 
aforesaid  to  prosecute  or  cause  to  be  prosecuted  or  attempted  aught 
that  may  tend  to  contempt  of  the  king  or  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or 
people,  the  laws  or  of  the  crown. 

To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Like  order,  although  lately  upon  the 
petition  of  William  Thomer,  William  Larke,  John  Prechet,  John 
Higon  and  Walter  Daper  the  king  by  writ  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  cause 
Ralph  de  Beverle  chaplain  to  come  before  them  and  to  compel  him  to 
find  mainpernors  {as  above)  that  he  would  not  do  nor  procure  bodily 
hurt  or  harm  to  the  said  petitioners. 

July  28.  Mainprise  under  a  pain  of  10^.,  made  by  John  Jol^'f  of  Kent  and 

Westminster.  Jordan  de  Barton  of  London,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  that  they 
will  have  Andrew  Morvs  of  Shorham  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench 
on  the  day  that  a  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable  to  answer  John 
Hamound  of  Frenyngham  concerning  an  alleged  debt  of  8  marks. 
Order  thereupon  to  be  sheriff'  of  Kent  to  stay  the  exigents  and  the 
taking  of  the  said  Andrew's  body. 

July  28.  To  the  sheriff  of  Devon.  Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Rosker  and 
Westminster.  John  Redkynowc  of  Cornwall  to  stay  the  ])ublication  of  the  exigents 
against  James  Treverb3'n  and  the  taking  of  his  body  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  that  John  Hamelyn,  Robert  Trcsilian  and  the  said  James  are 
put  in  exigents  in  Devon  to  be  outlawed  for  that  they  came  not  before 
the  king  to  answer  concerning  their  ransom  for  not  having  Baldwin 
Polgrym  before  the  king  in  his  court  at  the  daj'  appointed,  as  they 
mainperned  to  do  ;  and  now  the  said  James  has  petitioned  the  king 
for  a  stay  until  the  da}'^  the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable,  as  he  is  ready 
to  content  the  king  of  his  said  ransom,  and  to  stand  to  right  in  all 
things  ;    and  the  said  John  Rosker  and  John  Redkynowe  appearing 


584 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373. 


Membrane  I5d — cont. 


Aug.  6. 
VVostminster. 


Aug.  17. 
Westminster. 


Aug.  20. 
Westminster. 

Aug.  22. 
Westminster. 


in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperiied  under  a  pain  of  20^  to  have  the 
said  James  before  the  king  on  the  day  named  in  order  to  content  the 
king  as  aforesaid. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Ivo  de  Cante- 
brigge  and  John  Colman  of  Cambridgeshire  to  stay  the  taking  of  the 
body  of  Stephen  de  Hoghton,  bringing  tiiis  writ  before  the  king's  justices 
at  Westminster  ;  as  hvteiy  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the 
sheriff  to  take  the  said  Steplien  wherever  found  in  that  baihwick, 
so  as  to  have  liia  body  before  the  said  justices  at  a  set  day  yet  to  come 
to  answer  Robert  TuUiot  of  Cantebrigge  on  a  plea  of  account,  and  the 
said  Stephen  has  prayed  the  king  for  a  stay,  as  he  is  ready  so  to  answer  ; 
and  the  said  Ivo  and  John,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have 
mainperned  under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  liave  his  body  before  tlie  said 
justices  at  the  day  the  writ  de  judicio  is  returnable. 

The  like  writ  to  the  same  sheriff  on  behalf  of  the  said  Stephen 
concerning  a  plea  of  debt  demanded  by  the  said  Robert. 

To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Geoffrey  de  Kent 
'  taillour,'  John  Leycestre  '  taillour,'  Thomas  Colman  '  coke,'  Geoffrey 
Colman  '  coke  '  and  Robert  Fysshe  '  draper  '  of  the  city  of  London 
to  set  free  William  Chestre  '  coke  '  from  Neugate  gaol,  where  he  is  now 
imprisoned  for  certain  armour  of  the  king's  taken  out  of  the  Tower  of 
London  and  by  him  bought  ;  as  the  said  Geoffrey  de  Kent  and  the  others, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of 
1001.  to  give  up  his  body  at  the  said  prison  on  17  September  next 
if  in  the  mean  time  he  may  not  agree  concerning  the  said  armour  with 
John  de  Haytefeld  the  king's  clerk,  in  whose  keeping  the  same  was. 

Memorandum  that  after  tJie  said  William  agreed  with  the  said  John 
Haytfeld  concerning  thirty  hauberks,  as  the  said  John  has  acknowledged 
in  chancery. 

William  de  Strete  to  the  king.  Recognisance  for  608Z.,  to  be  levied, 
in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 

Margaret  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Stafford  knight  and  William 
Dyngel  parson  of  Roppesle^^e  to  Alexander  de  Besford.  Joint  and 
several  recognisance  for  500  marks  payable  by  instalments  ;  to  be 
le\aed  etc.  of  their  lands  and  chattels  and  of  the  said  William's 
ecclesiastical  goods  in  Staffordshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

Membrane  I4:d. 

Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  made  26  September  this  year  by  William 
de  Halden  recorder  of  London  and  John  Philipot  citizen  of  London, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  for  brother  Richard  Wy  of  the  order  of 
friars  of  Mount  Carmel,  who  by  the  king's  command  was  for  particular 
causes  in  the  custody  of  the  said  John  being  sheriff  of  London,  that 
he  shall  not  pass  the  sea  without  the  king's  special  licence,  and  shall  not 
prosecute,  do  or  attempt  aught  or  cause  aught  to  be  prosecuted  or 
attempted  which  may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  crown. 

Indenture  tripartite  made  between  Dame  Alice  Perers  of  the  first 
part,  Alice  who  w^as  wife  of  Philip  Seint  Elyne  of  the  second  part,  and 


47    EDWARD    III. 


585 


1373.  Membrane  \Ad — cont. 

Robert  Wycliorlee  master  of  Seiiit  Laureiicz  Pultcney  church  of  the 
third  part,  witnessing  that  whereas  the  said  Dame  Ahee  and  AHce  have 
dehvered  to  the  said  Robert  to  keep  indiirerently  a  writing  whereby 
the  said  Alice  released  with  warranty  all  the  tenements,  rents  and 
services  whereof  she  was  at  any  time  seised  in  Abyndon  Seint  Elyn  co. 
Berkes,  upon  condition  that  in  case  William  son  of  the  said  Philip 
by  the  said  Alice,  now  over  sea  at  the  war,  shall  die  before  his  return 
to  England  and  before  the  reversion  be  granted  to  him  in  the  form 
contauied  in  other  indentures  made  between  the  said  Dame  Alice  and 
Alice,  so  that  according  to  the  said  conditions  affecting  that  grant  the 
reversion  shall  become  the  inheritance  of  Dame  Alice,  the  said  Robert 
shall  be  bound  to  deliver  again  the  said  release  to  the  said  Dame 
Alice,  and  otherwise  to  the  said  Alice,  the  said  Dame  Alice  grants  that 
then  the  said  release  shall  be  null  and  void.  Dated  London, 
20  September  47  Edward  HI.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Alice  who  was  wife 
of  Philip  and  the  said  Robert  in  the  chancery  at  London,  26  September. 

Oct.  \.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Robert 

Westminster.  Raven,  by  mainprise  of  Joiin  Raven  clerk,  John  de  Broghton  and  John 
de  Wodehous  of  Lcycestcrshire  and  Thomas  Houden  of  London 
'  taillour."  to  stay  the  further  publication  of  the  exigents  against  him 
and  the  taking  of  his  body,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the 
Bench  the  day  a  writ  de  judicio  against  him  at  the  suit  of  John  de 
Depham  of  London  is  returnable  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  the  said 
John  de  Depham  is  impleading  him  before  the  said  justices  to  render 
account  for  the  time  that  he  was  receiver  of  the  plaintiff's  moneys, 
that  by  the  said  writ  he  is  put  in  exigents  in  the  busting  of  London  to  be 
outlawed  for  that  he  came  not  before  the  said  justices  to  answer  there- 
upon, and  that  he  is  read}'  so  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ; 
and  the  said  John  Raven  and  the  others  have  mainperned  in  chancery 
under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  at  the  day 
mentioned. 

Oct.  2.  To  the  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge.     Like  order,  upon  the  petition  of 

Westminster.  Stephen  Bernewelle  "  pulter  '  of  Cambridgeshire,  by  mainprise  of  John 
Barbour  '  taverner  '  and  Peter  Aungers  of  Cambridgeshire  ;  as  his 
petition  shews  that  Alice  Lynne  is  impleading  him  before  the  justices 
of  the  Bench  to  render  her  10  marks,  that  by  a  writ  de  judicio  he  is  put 
in  exigents  in  that  county  for  that  he  came  not  to  answer  concerning 
that  debt,  and  that  he  is  read}-  so  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all 
things  ;  and  the  said  John  and  Peter  have  mainperned  in  chancery 
under  a  pain  of  10/.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  the  day  the 
said  writ  is  returnable. 


Charter  of  Henry  sou  of  Henry  Apuldrefeld,  giving  with  bond  for 
warranty  to  John  Pays,  his  lieirs  and  assigns,  all  his  lands  in  Davyn- 
tone,  Ore,  Lodenham.  Stone  by  Osprenge,  Osprenge,  Faversham  and 
Prestone  by  Favei-sham  which  he  had  by  demise  of  Roger  Dygge, 
John  Wylde  clerk,  Peter  Boxstede  and  Richard  Saundre,  the 
reversion  of  all  the  pasture  of  kyne  and  sheep  in  Hammesmersh  in  the 
towns  of  Lodenham,  Ore,  Faversham  and  Prestone  by  Faversham 
now  held  for  life  by  Isabel  de  Poldre  with  remainder  to  John 
Frogeuale,  William  Makenade  and  Stephen  de  Cherche  clerk  during  the 


686  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  14rf — coni. 

life  of  Dame  Lucy  do  Apuldrefeld,  the  reversion  of  40*-.  of  yearly  rent  to 
be  taken  at  Midsummer  of  a  marsh  called  Logemesh  in  the  parish  of  Ore 
by  Faversham,  and  the  reversion  of  the  said  marsh  after  the  death  of 
John  Mayster  tenant  thereof,  which  rent  and  reversion  are  held  by 
John  Wilde  clerk.  John  Frogenale  and  William  Makenade  during  the 
said  Lucy's  life  with  remainder  to  Isabel  de  Poldre  for  life.  Witnesses  : 
Thomas  Garwyntone,  Robert  Bronstone,  Robert  Notyngham,  John 
Dreylond,  Philip  Note,  William  Cokkou.  Dated  Davyntone,  Sunday 
after  Michaelmas  47  Edward  ILL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  ni  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
12  October. 

Writing  of  Henry  de  Apuldrefeld,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  John  Pays,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Davyntone  and  all 
lands,  marshes,  woods,  farms,  pastures,  rents  etc.  in  the  towns  of 
Davynton,  Ore,  Lodenham,  Faversham,  Osprenge,  Stone  by  Osprenge 
and  Prestone  by  Faversham  which  the  said  John  latelj^  had  by  gift  and 
feoffment  of  the  said  Henr3\     Dated  12  October  47  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  12  October. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Garwynton,  granting  to  John  Pays,  his  heirs 
and  assigns  during  the  life  of  Joan  wife  of  Henry  de  Apuldrefeld.  a  yearly 
rent  of  20  marks  to  be  taken  at  All  Saints  and  Easter  by  even  portions 
of  all  the  lands  in  Stourmouth  sometime  of  the  said  Henry  whereof 
he  enfeoffed  the  said  Thomas,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  ;  and 
he  has  given  the  said  John  seisin  thereof  by  payment  of  \2d.  in  part 
of  the  first  term.     Dated  10  October  47  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  14  October, 

Charter  of  Richard  de  Sutton  knight  of  Essex,  giving  with  warranty 
to  Robert  son  of  William  de  Nevendon  of  Essex,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Suthalle  in  Paklesham  in  the  hundred  of 
Rocheford  with  all  lands,  rents,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  woods, 
marshes,  services  of  free  tenants  and  neifs,  a  moiety  of  a  marsh  called 
Tilwerde  in  the  parish  of  Great  Stanbrugge  in  the  same  hundred,  and 
all  rights,  commodities  etc.  to  the  said  moiety  of  that  manor  belonging. 
Witnesses  :  Sir  John  Chauncers,  Sir  John  Scot  knights,  Godfrey 
Rokelle,  Edward  de  W^odeham,  John  fitz  Simond,  William  de  Pakles- 
ham, William  Revnald,  John  de  Prvterwelle.  Dated  Paklesham, 
9  October  47  Edvvard  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  14  October. 

Membrane  \M. 

Oct.  4.  To  W.  archbishop  of  Canterbury.     Summons  to  a  parliament  at 

Westminster.  Westminster  on  the  morrow  of  St.  Edmund  the  King  next,  directing 
him  to  warn  the  prior  and  chapter  of  Christ  Church  Canterbury,  the 
archdeacons  and  clergy  of  his  diocese  to  be  present,  the  said  prior  and 
archdeacons  in  person,  the  chapter  by  one  proctor  and  the  clergy 
by  two.  By  K.  and  C. 

{Report  on  Dignity  of  a  Peer,  App.  iv,  p.  659.] 

The  like  to  J.  Archbishop  of  York,  W.  bishop  of  Winchester  and 
seventeen  other  bishops,  of  whom  the  bishops  of  Rochester,  Landaff 
and  St.  Asaph  are  not  named. 

[Ibid.  p.  660.] 


47    EDWARD    III.  587 


1373.  Membrane  \3d — cont. 

To  the  abbot  of  St.  Augustine  Canterbury.  Summons  to  the  said 
parliament. 

Tlic  liivc  to  the  al)bot  of  St.  Albatis  and  23  other  abljots,  the  prior  of 
St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  Enghmd,  and  the  prior  of  Coventre. 

[Ibid.] 

To  Richard  earl  of  Aruiidell.     Summons  to  the  said  parliament. 
The  like  to  Hugh  de  Courtenay  earl  of  Devon  and  four  other  earls, 
John  de  Cherleton  of  Powys  and  32  others. 
[Ibid.] 

To  the  .sheriff  of  Kent.  Order  to  cause  two  knights  or  esquires  of 
the  shire  discreet  and  proved  in  deeds  of  arms,  two  citizens  of  every 
city  and  two  burgesses  of  every  borough  therein  who  have  the  best 
knowledge  of  shipping  and  of  plying  traffic  to  be  elected  and  come  to 
the  said  parliament. 

The  like  to  singular  the  sheriffs  throughout  England. 

[Ibid.  p.  661.] 

To  Edward  prince  of  Wales.     Summons  to  the  said  parliament. 

[Ibid.] 

To  John  de  Cavendissh  the  chief  justice.  Summons  to  the  said 
parliament. 

The  like  to  William  de  Fvncheden  and  five  others. 
[Ibid.] 

To  William  de  Latymere  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of 
the  Cinque  Ports,  or  to  his  lieutenant.  Order  to  cause  two  barons 
of  every  of  those  ports  of  the  best  and  most  discreet  in  shipping  and  in 
plying  traffic  to  be  elected  and  come  to  the  said  parliament. 

[Ibid.  p.  662.] 

Waiting  of  Thomas  Grey  of  Brendepelham  co.  Hertford,  being  a 
quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  king  of  Castile  and  Leon  and  duke  of 
Lancastre,  Thomas  de  Eltislee  the  elder  clerk  and  Robert  de  Eltislee 
clerk,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Landbech 
sometime  of  Thomas  Chaumberleyn  knight.  Witnesses  :  Baldwin  de 
Sancto  Georgio,  John  .A  vend,  John  Dengayne,  Alexander  de 
Goldyngliam,  Thomas  Shardelowe  knights,  Roger  Harleston,  John 
Bretton,  William  Castelacre,  Edmund  Walsyngham,  Thomas  Sewale, 
William  Batcman,  John  Pa>n,  Robert  Tulyet.  Dated  Thursday 
the  eve  of  St.  Simon  and  St.  Jude  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  October. 

Oct.  4.  To  W.  archbishop  of  Canterbury.     Request  and  order  upon  his  allegi- 

Westminster.  ance,  as  he  loves  the  king  and  his  honour  and  desires  the  safety  and 
defence  of  the  realm  and  church  of  England,  in  consideration  as  well  of  the 
difficulty  of  the  business  as  of  the  perils  that  may  be  incurred  for  lack 
of  such  defence,  to  cause  a  convocation  to  be  held  at  the  earliest  day 
he  may,  in  the  church  of  St.  Paul  London  or  elsewhere  as  he  shall  think 
fit,  of  his  suffragans,  the  deans  and  priors  of  cathedral  churches,  the 
abbots,  priors  and  other  elected  persons,  exempt  and  not  exempt, 
the  archdeacons,  chapters,  convents  and  colleges  and  all  the  clergy 


688  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  Vid — conl. 

of  every  diocese  of  the  province  of  Canterburj',  to  lay  the  business 
before  them  and  urge  them  to   grant  a  subsidy'  in  aid    of  the  king's 
charges  therein,  applying  himself  thereto  with  effect,  and  certifying 
in  chancery  the  amount  of  such  subsidy  and  the  terms  of  payment ; 
as  the  king  believes  that  the  archbishop   is  not   without  knowledge 
how  that  with  liis  advice  and  the  advice  of  other  the  prelates,  nobles 
and  others  of  the  council,  as  well  for  furtherance  of  the  war  and  of  his 
rights  and  the  rights  of  his  crown  over  sea  as  for  the  needful  defence  of 
the  said  realm  and  church,  the  king  has  sent  as  well   over  sea  as  to 
sea  great  number  of  lords  and  other  his  lieges,   the  charges  whereof 
without  aid  of  his  faithful  people  he  is  not  able  to  support. 
[Reporl  on  Dignity  of  a  Peer.     App.  iv,  p.  662.] 
The  like  to  J.  archbishop  of  York,  directing  him  to  hold  a  convocation 
in  the  church  of  St.  Peter  York. 
[Ibid.] 

Membrane  I2d. 

Writing  of  Ralph  de  Ripplyngham,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Thomas  de  Tngelby  knight  and  Katherine  his  wife,  the  heirs  and 
assigns  of  the  said  Thomas,  of  the  manor  of  Borthelby  co.  York.  Dated 
York.  10  July  47  Edward  HI. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  York,  on  Monday  before 
St.  Lawrence,  before  William  de  Fyncheden  by  virtue  of  the  king's 
writ  of  dedimus  potestatem. 

Oct.  20.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  for  particular  causes  on  sight  of 

Westminster,  these  presents  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  on  the  king's  behalf 
forbidding  any  man  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition  without  the 
king's  special  command  to  take  or  cause  to  be  taken  out  of  the  realm 
to  any  foreign  parts  any  wines  of  what  kind  soever  under  pain  of  for- 
feiture thereof  ;  and  if  they  shall  find  any  so  doing  after  the 
proclamation,  order  to  arrest  such  wine  as  forfeit,  and  to  cause  answer 
to  be  made  for  it  to  the  king.  By  C. 

[Foedera.] 
The  like  to  the  following  : — 

The  bailiffs  of  Gippewic  and  of  two  other  towns. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Lenne  and  of  eight  other  cities  and 

towns. 
William  de  Latimere  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  or  his  lieutenant 
there. 
[Ibid.] 

Writing  of  Alice  relict  of  John  de  ColleweUe,  being  a  quitclaim  to 
John  de  Henxteworth  of  all  right  by  reason  of  dower  or  otherwise 
in  all  the  lands  which  were  her  said  husband's  in  the  town  of 
Radewelle  by  Baldok.     Dated  London,  24  October  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
25  October. 

Charter  of  William  la  Zouche  of  Haryngworth  knight,  giving  with 
warranty  to  John  bishop  of  Lincoln,  Simon  Warde,  John  Holt  and  John 
de  Thame,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  his  manor  of  Westonnynge  co.  Bedford 
and  all  his  lands  in  Eynesford  and  Igtham  co.  Kent,  Kings  Worthy 


47    EDWARD    TIT.  589 


1373.  Membrane  I2d — cont. 

CO.  Suthampton.  Alvonlojjh  co.  Suffolk  and  Whethamstede  co. 
Hertford,  with  the  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  rents  and  services  of  free 
men  and  neifs,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  forfeitures,  heriots 
and  reversions  whatsoever  to  the  premises  belonging,  when  they  shall 
fall  in,  the  neifs  and  all  that  goes  with  them.  Witnes.ses  :  John 
Knvvet,  John  Basyngs,  John  Boyville  knights,  Xichoias  Grene  of 
Isham,  Robert  de  Melton  clerk,  John  Tendale.  Dated  Haryng worth, 
Monday  the  feast  of  St.  John  the  Evangelist  10  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27   October  this  year. 

Indenture  made  between  Richard  earl  of  Arundell  and  Surrey  and 
Ral|)h  de  Restwold  the  elder,  witnessing  a  grant  made  to  the  said  earl, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a  yearly  rent  of  40/.  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and 
Christmas  bj'  exen  portions  of  the  manor  of  Crowemerssh  Giffard 
and  of  all  other  the  said  Ralph's  lands  in  O.xfordshire,  with  power  to 
distrain  for  arrears,  upon  condition  that  so  long  as  the  earl  or  any 
other  tenant  in  time  to  come  of  the  manor  of  Tortyngton  co.  Sussex 
or  parcel  thereof  shall  not  be  thereof  impleaded  by  the  heirs  of  Elizabeth 
now  wife  of  William  the  said  Ralph's  son  the  said  rent  shall  be  in  .sus- 
pense, and  albeit  in  time  to  come  the  said  earl  or  tenant  be  so  impleaded 
by  such  heir,  if  he  shall  warn  the  tenant  of  the  manor  of 
Crowemerssh  or  parcel  thereof  at  the  site  of  that  manor  or  publicly 
in  the  parish  church  to  save  him  harmless  and  acquit  him  of  his 
costs,  so  long  as  he  shall  be  so  saved  and  acquitted  in  the  church  of 
St.  Paul  London  within  one  quarter  of  a  j-ear  after  warning  given  as 
aforesaid,  the  said  rent  shall  be  in  suspense,  provided  always  that 
if  the  said  earl  or  tenant  be  so  impleaded,  and  the  tenant  of  the  manor 
of  Crowemerssh  being  warned  shall  not  pay  all  such  costs,  the  said  rent 
shall  be  paid  to  the  said  earl,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  until  such  tenant 
shall  make  full  recompense,  and  if  being  so  impleaded  the  tenant  [of 
Tortyngton]  shall  lose  the  said  manor  or  parcel  thereof,  it  shall  be  paid 
to  the  said  earl,  his  heirs  and  a.ssigns  for  ever,  provided  nevertheless 
that  if  such  plea  be  moved  or  supported  by  covin  of  the  tenant  of  the 
manor  of  Tortyngton  or  parcel  thereof,  and  recovery  be  had  without  true 
title,  the  tenant  of  the  manor  of  Crowemerssh  shall  not  be  so  bound  to 
save  or  acquit  him,  nor  to  pay  the  .said  rent ;  and  for  greater  security  the 
said  Ralph  has  put  the  said  earl  in  possession  of  the  said  annuity  by 
payment  of  12r/.  in  part  of  the  first  term  upon  the  conditions  aforesaid. 
Witnesses  :  Hugh  de  Berwyk,  Reynold  de  Malyns  knights,  Thomas 
atte  Garstone,  John  Herdewyke,  Richard  atte  Feld.  Dated 
Crowemerssh  Giffard,  Thursday  the  eve  of  St.  Simon  and  St.  Jude 
47  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  ackno\\  ledgment  by  the  said  Ralph,  29  October. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Naylyngherst,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Aubrey 
de  Veer  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Olmestede. 
Dated  Olmestede,  Thursday  after  All  Saints  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  November. 

Oct.  26.  John  Halle,  for  good  service,  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of 

Thornton  upon  Humbre,  to  take  such  maintenance  of  that  house  for 

life  as  Master  Robert  More  deceased  had  in  his  life  time  at  the  king's 
request.  By  p.s.  [29869.] 


690  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  I2d — cont. 

Nov.  5.  Thomas  abbot  of  Sautre  and  John  de  Bretton  to  Richard  de  Treton 

Westminster,  clerk.     Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  40/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Norhamptonshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Nov.  IL         John  Daunteseye  knight  to  the  prioress  of  Derteford.    Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  1,000  marks  payable  by  instalments,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  VViltesir. 

Michael  Skyllyng  to  John  Daunteseye  knight.     Recognisance  for 
300  marks  payable  by  instalments,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Wiltesir, 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Nov.  12.         John  de  Karlele  of   Newcastle   upon  Tyne   to  Hugh  de  Mitford. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  60/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Northumberland. 

Writing  of  Nicholas  Longe  canon  of  Herford  cathedral,  being  a 
bond  to  William  abbot  of  Keynesham  and  John  Wecche  in  200/. 
payable  at  Kej'nesham  at  Michaelmas  next.  Dated  London,  the 
octaves  of  St.  Martin  47  Edward  II L 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  23  November. 

Membrane  lid. 
Aug.  16.  To  Nicholas  Burnel.     Order  to  send  under  his  seal  an  indictment 

Westminster,  made  before  him  and  his  fellows,  guardians  of  the  peace  and  justices 
of  oyer  and  terminer  in  Salop,  against  William  de  Thiknes  clerk, 
Philip  de  Thiknes,  John  de  Oldefeld,  William  Gregory  and  William 
le  Hore  concerning  certain  trespasses,  and  all  things  relating  thereto, 
so  that  the  king  shall  have  the  same  in  the  octaves  of  Michaelmas 
in  order  further  to  do  what  ought  to  be  done  according  to  the  law  and 
custom  of  the  realm,  commanding  the  sheriff  to  stay  the  execution 
of  any  writ  de  judicio  to  put  the  defendants  in  exigents  to  him 
addressed  by  virtue  of  the  said  indictment  ;  as  for  particular  causes 
it  is  the  king's  will  that  the  said  indictment  be  determined  before  him 
and  nowhere  else. 

Writing  of  Alexander  de  Besseford,  granting  to  Margaret  who  was 
wife  of  John  de  Stafford  knight,  Richard  de  Stafford  knight  and  William 
Dyngel  parson  of  Roppesleye,  for  payment  of  250  marks,  the  marriage 
of  Maud  one  of  the  daughters  and  heirs  of  John  de  Hastang  tenant 
in  chief,  if  unmarried,  and  if  she  be  married  whatever  pertains  to  him 
the  said  Alexander  for  such  marriage,  the  king  on  20  August  in  the 
47th  year  of  his  reign  having  by  letters  patent  granted  to  the  said 
Alexander,  for  payment  of  125  marks  at  the  exchequer  in  the 
octaves  of  Michaelmas  next,  the  marriage  of  the  said  Maud,  being 
within  age  and  in  the  king's  wardship,  if  unmarried,  and  if  she  were 
married  whatsoever  should  pertain  to  tlae  king  for  such  marriage ;  and 
release  to  the  said  Margaret,  Richard  and  William  and  to  Ralph  son  of 
John  de  Stafford  knight  (militis)  of  all  actions  and  demands  by  reason 
of  the  said  Maud's  marriage.     Dated  22  August  47  Edward  III. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  a  recognisance  for  500  marks  made  in 
chancery  22  August  47  Edward  III,  whereby  Margaret  who  was 
wife    of   John   de   Stafford   knight   and   William   Dyngel   parson   of 


47   EDWARD   III. 


591 


1373.  Membrane  \\d — cont. 

Roppesleye '"vre  bound  to  Alexander  de  Besford,  upon  condition  that  the 
said  Margaret  and  William,  their  heirs  or  executors,  pay  to  the  said 
Alexander  or  his  executors  at  the  Wyche  co.  Worcester  and  not  else- 
where 100/.  in  the  octaves  of  Michaelmas  next,  and  100  marks  in  the 
octaves  of  tlie  Purification  following  for  the  marriage  of  Maud  Hastang, 
daughter  and  one  of  the  heirs  of  .John  Hastang.  or  for  the  forfeiture 
thereof,  which  marriage  and  forfeiture  tlie  king  by  letters  patent  has 
granted  to  the  said  Alexander.  Dated  London,  24  August  the  year 
above  mentioned. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writing  and 
indenture  by  the  said  Alexander,  23  August. 

Sept.  2.  To  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Oseney.     Order  to  grant  of  that  house 

Westminster,  to  Thomas  Rauf  the  king's  clerk  such  a  pension  as  shall  befit  the  givers 
and  should  bind  the  receiver  to  them,  making  him  letters  patent 
thereupon  under  the  chapter  seal,  and  writing  again  without  delay 
what  they  shall  think  tit  ;  as  by  reason  of  his  new  creation  the  abbot 
is  bound  to  one  of  the  king's  clerks  at  the  king's  nomination  in  a  yearly 
pension  to  be  taken  of  the  said  house  until  provision  be  made  him  by 
the  abbot  of  a  competent  benefice,  and  the  king  has  nominated  the  said 
Thomas  whose  advancement  he  has  at  heart.         By   p.s.   [29809.] 

Sept.  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Robert  Stilligo, 

Westminster.  John  Wytyng,  John  Baudree,  Robert  Fulborne  and  Roger  Marlebergh 
of  London  to  stay  the  taking  of  the  body  of  John  Richardessone  of 
Burwell,  bringing  this  \\rit  before  the  king  ;  as  by  writ  the  king  lately 
ordered  the  sheriff  to  attach  the  said  John  Richardessone  so  as  to  have 
him  before  the  king  in  the  octaves  of  Michaelmas  to  answer  Thomas 
de  Swafham  of  Burewell  concerning  a  mayhem  and  breach  of  the  peace 
for  which  the  said  Thomas  is  appealing  him  ;  but  the  said  Robert 
Stilligo  and  the  otliers.  appealing  in  person  in  chancery,  have 
mainperned  body  for  bod\-  and  under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have  him  before 
the  king  at  the  day  named  to  answer  as  aforesaid. 

Memorandum  {in  margin)  that  the  said  mainpernors  had  the  said 
John  Richardes son's  body  before  the  king  at  Westminster  at  the  said  day, 
as  the  said  Thomas  Swafham  and  John  Shardelowe  have  acknowledged  in 
chancery. 

* 

Sept.  2.  Like  writ  of  supersedeas  to  the  same  sheriff  in  favour  of  William  de 

Westminster.  Swafham  of  Burewell,  by  mainprise  of  John  Bays  of  Somerset,  John 
Overav  and  Richard  Sturgis  of  London,  and  Robert  Britvn  of 
Caml)ridgeshire. 

Sept.  10.  To  the  justices  appointed  to  keep  the  peace  in  the  parts  of 
Westminster.  Lvndesev  in  Lincolnshire.  Order,  by  mainprise  of  John  de  Burton  of 
London,  '  tapicer,'  William  de  Stanlay  of  London  '  dyer,'  Ralph  de 
Billyngeye  of  London  '  cordewaner '  and  Godfrey  de  Barton 
'  cordewaner  '  of  London,  to  stay  altogether  the  execution  of  the  king's 
writ  directing  the  said  justices  to  cause  John  de  Thorle  of  Barton  to 
come  before  them  and  compel  him  to  find  mainpernors  who,  under 
a  pain  to  l>e  by  the  justices  laid  upon  them  and  for  which  the  justices 
would  answer,  would  mainpern  him  that  he  should  not  inflict  or  procure 
hurt  or  harm  upon  Thomas  de  Kydale  knight,  Hugh  de  Ferybv,  fJohn  de 
Ferybyt,  William  Smyth  of  Barton,  Richardj,  Robert  Toddy  of  Barton, 


592  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1373.  Mernbrane  \\d — cont. 

John  do  Kent  of  Barton,  John  Frost  of  Barton,  John  do  Lcgburn  of 
Barton,  John  Baudewyn  of  Barton,  John  do  Forvbv  of  Barton,  John  de 
Seton,  John  Danyel  and  Walter  Sti|){)yng.  and  if  he  should  refuse,  to 
take  him  and  commit  him  to  the  nearest  gaol  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody 
until  he  should  find  security  as  aforesaid  ;  as  the  king  made  that  order 
at  the  petition  of  the  said  Thomas,  Hugh.  William,  Robert,  Jolin  de 
Kent,  John  Frost,  John  de  Legburn,  John  Baudewyn,  John  de 
Feryby,  John  de  Seton,  John  Danyel  and  Walter,  averring  that  the  said 
John  de  Thorle  grievously  threatened  them  in  life  and  limbs  ;  but 
the  said  John  de  Burton  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in 
chancery,  have  mainperned  for  him  under  a  pain  of  20/.  that  he  shall 
not  cause  nor  procure  bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  the  said  Thomas  and  the 
others  above  named. 

Writing  of  Peter  Caprich',  son  of  Robert  Caprich',  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Thomas  de  Hoton,  Joan  his  wife  and  Tliomas  their 
son,  and  to  the  heirs  of  the  said  Thomas  the  son,  of  all  the  lands, 
lordships,  rents,  services  and  reversions  in  Capriston  and  Ricardeston 
which  descended  by  inheritance  to  the  said  Peter  after  his  said 
father's  death,  and  which  the  said  Thomas,  Joan  and  Thomas  have 
by  his  gift  and  feofiPment.  Witnesses  :  John  de  la  Roche,  John  Joce 
knights,  William  Harold,  John  Mortun,  John  Hoton,  Walter  Symound. 
Dated  Capriston,  the  feast  of  the  Exaltation  of  Holy  Cross 
47  Edward  IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowlcdgmcTit  in  the  chancery  at  London, 
16  September. 

Writing  of  Alice  who  was  wife  of  Philip  Seint  ElyTi  of  Berkshire, 
being  a  quitclaim  wdth  warranty  to  Alice  Perriers,  her  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  serxices  of  free  tenants  and  neifs,  the  neifs 
and  all  that  goes  with  them,  the  reversions  and  possessions  whatsoever 
in  Abyndon  Seint  Elyn  in  the  said  county  whereof  lately  she  the  said 
Alice  Seint  E1\ti  b}-  charter  and  seisin  thereupon  had  enfeoffed  the 
said  Alice  Perriers  in  fee  simple.  W^itnesses  :  Nicholas  Ploket,  John 
Dovy,  Nicholas  Potyn,  John  More,  Richard  Kent.  Dated  London, 
20  September,  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknow'ledgment  at  London,  25  September. 

Oct.  6.  To  the  sheriff  of  Oxford.     Order  on  sight  of  these  presents  forthwith 

Westminster,  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  that  all  bridges  of  the  rivers  of  Oxford- 
shire be  speedily  repaired  by  the  men  who  ought  to  repair  them,  and 
that  sure  signs  and  posts  {pili)  on  either  side  of  the  said  rivers  whereby 
the  bridges  and  other  passages  of  fords  may  be  more  certainly  known 
be  fixed  and  set  up  for  the  king's  sport  with  his  hawks  in  the 
approaching  winter  season  ;  and  if  such  men  be  negligent  in  the 
premises,  order  by  distraint  and  otherwise  as  he  shall  see  best  to 
compel  them  to  repair  the  said  bridges  and  set  up  signs  and  posts  (palos) 
as  aforesaid,  so  behaving  herein  that  by  his  default  no  peril  shall 
happen  to  the  king  or  others  in  his  compan}^  or  to  his  hawks  at  his 
coming  to  those  parts. 
[Feeder  a.] 

Membrane  lOd. 

Writing  of  Alice  daughter  of  Thomas  Hoddel  of  Mulsho,  being  a 
quitclaim  with  w^arranty  to  John  Dylioun,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all 


47    EDWARD    III.  593 


1373.  Membrane  lOd — cont. 

messuages,  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  towns  and  fields  of  Mulsho, 
Great  Craulc,  Little  Craule,  Xeuportpaynel  and  Caldccote  which 
descended  to  her  by  inheritance  after  the  death  of  her  said  father 
and  of  James  Hoddel  her  nephew  ;  and  grant  with  like  warranty 
of  the  reversion  of  all  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  towns  and  fields 
aforesaid  of  her  held  for  life  by  Alice  Hoddel,  John  Stoke  and 
Elizabeth  his  wife.  Witnesses  :  Sir  John  de  Aylesbury,  John 
Broghton,  Lawrence  Basset,  John  Olney,  Nicholas  Joseph,  Thomas 
Cordell,  Thomas  Thomas  (sic)  Tayllour."  Dated  Mulsho,  Wednesday 
in  Wliitsun  week  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancers'  at  Westminster, 
18  October. 

Charter  of  John  Husee,  son  and  heir  of  John  Husee  lately  deceased, 
giving  with  warranty  to  Hugh  le  Cran  citizen  and  merchant  of 
Winchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  10/.  to  be  taken 
at  the  four  principal  terms  of  the  year  by  even  portions  of  all  and 
singular  the  lands  etc.  which  he  the  said  John  holds  or  may  hereafter 
hold  in  the  manor  of  Berton  Sacy  and  Xeweton,  with  power  to  distrain 
for  arrears.  Witnesses  :  Richard  le  Vrye  then  mayor  of  Winchester, 
Stephen  Haym,  Richard  Wygge.  William  Inge,  John  atte  Yerde, 
Thomas  de  Wolvele,  William  Morryne.  Dated  Winchester,  Monday 
after  the  Exaltation  of  Holy  Cross  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  23  October. 

Oct.  23.  Robert  Bays  to  John  Bays.      Recognisance  for  500/.,  to  be  levied, 

Westminster,  in  default  of  paj'uient,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Somerset. 

Charter  of  Alexander  de  Ooldyngham  knight,  giving  with  warranty 
to  Robert  de  Beleknappe  and  Juliana  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  and 
assigns  of  the  said  Robert  his  whole  manor  of  Wyltynge,  with  all 
services  of  free  tenants  and  neifs,  and  all  liberties  and  other  properties 
and  profits  to  the  same  belonging,  and  all  his  lands,  rents  and  services 
in  the  rapes  of  Hastings,  Pevenesej'e  and  Lewes  and  else\\'here  in 
vSussex,  with  the  warren  upon  the  said  manor  and  lands.  Dated 
London,  Monday  after  St.  Luke  47  Edward  III.  Witnesses  :  Roger 
de  Asshebournehamme,  William  de  Home,  William  de  Batelesforde, 
Robert  de  Ore,  Edmund  de  Chymbeham,  John  de  Hukstepe. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  24  October. 

Indenture  made  between  Alexander  de  Goldyngham  knight  of  the 
one  part  and  Robert  de  Beleknappe  and  Juliana  his  wife  of  the  other 
part,  witnessing  a  grant,  made  by  the  said  Alexander  to  the  said  Robert 
and  Juliana  and  to  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  Robert,  of  a 
yearly  rent  of  lOZ.  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even 
portions  during  the  life  of  Isabel  now  wife  of  the  said  Alexander  of 
his  manor  in  Bereford  St.  Martin  co.  Wiltesir  with  power  to  distrain 
for  arrears,  upon  condition  that  during  the  said  Alexander's  hfe 
the  said  rent  shall  be  in  suspense  and  not  be  paid,  but  if  the  said 
Isabel  shall  overlive  him  and  shall  sue  them  or  the  heirs  or  assigns 
of  the  said  Robert  for  dower  of  the  manor  of  WyltjTig  and  the 
lands  etc.  in  Sussex  whereof  the  said  Alexander  has  enfeoffed  them, 
or   any   part   thereof,   and   they   shall   vouch  to  warranty  the  said 

CB  38 


594 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  lOd — cont. 

Alexander's  heirs  (if  such  heirs  there  be),  and  upon  the  voucher  they 
shall  recover  against  the  said  heirs,  so  that  the  said  Lsabel  shall 
recover  her  dower  against  the  said  Robert  and  Juliana,  the  heirs  and 
assigns  of  the  said  Robert,  and  shall  have  execution,  and  if  the  said 
Alexander's  heirs  shall  not  have  lands  whereof  the  said  Robert  and 
Juliana,  or  the  heirs  and  assigas  of  the  said  Robert,  may  liave  to  the 
like  value,  this  annuity  shall  stand  in  force,  saving  that  the  annuitants 
shall  have  no  action  nor  advantage  of  arrears  before  such  execution, 
but  if  the  said  Alexander's  heirs  shall  have  lands  to  the  value  aforesaid, 
or  be  not  vouched  to  warranty  upon  such  writ  of  dower,  the  annuity 
shall  be  void,  and  the  arrears  thereof.  And  the  said  Alexander  has 
put  the  said  Robert  and  Juliana  in  seisin  of  the  said  rent  under  the 
condition  aforesaid  bv  payment  of  12c/.  Dated  London,  Tuesday  after 
St.  Luke  47  Edward"  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Alexander,  25  October. 

Oct.  23.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London  and  the  river 

Westminster.  Thames,  Dovorre  or  Sandewic.  Order  to  suffer  John  de  Maltby  vicar 
of  Alton  in  one  of  those  ports  freely  without  let  to  pass  over  sea  taking 
405.  for  his  expenses  ;  as  Robert  de  Maltby  of  London  and  Edward 
Smyth  of  London,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  raainperned 
for  him  under  a  pain  of  100/.  that  he  shall  there  attempt  nought  which 
may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  any  of  his  subjects. 

Oct.  30.  To  John  Cavendissh  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hold  pleas 

Westminster,  before  the  king.  Order  to  continue  in  the  state  it  now  is  the  process 
of  a  plea  now  pending  before  the  king  concerning  the  vicarage  of 
Ecclesfeld,  until  a  plea  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  between  the 
king  and  the  abbot  of  St.  Wandrille  in  Normandy  and  brother  John 
Burdet  prior  of  Ecclesfeld  concerning  the  rectory  of  Ecclesfeld  shall  be 
determined,  staying  the  further  execution  of  a  writ  de.  judicio  against 
John  archbishop  of  York  while  the  said  plea  before  the  justices  of  the 
Bench  shall  be  pending  without  debate,  although  thereby  the  king  lately 
ordered  the  sheriff  of  York  to  distrain  the  said  archbishop  by  all  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  that  bailiwick,  so  that  he  nor  any  man  by  him 
[appointed]  should  until  further  order  lay  to  his  hand,  to  answer  to  the 
king  for  the  issues,  and  to  have  the  archbishop's  body  before  the  king 
on  the  morrow  of  All  Souls  next  to  answer  as  well  the  king  as  Master 
William  Fulmere  on  a  plea  wherefore  he  has  not  obeyed  the  king's 
repeated  command,  according  to  a  judgment  in  chancery,  to  do  what 
pertained  to  his  office  touching  the  restitution  of  the  said  William  to 
the  possession  of  his  said  vicarage,  which  he  lately  obtained  by  virtue 
of  the  king's  presentation,  or  to  signify  the  cause  wherefore  he  disobeyed 
that  command  ;  as  the  aforesaid  plea  that  the  said  abbot  and  prior 
should  permit  the  king  to  present  a  parson  to  the  said  church  is  pending 
without  decision,  so  that  it  is  not  reasonable  that  proceeding  be  had 
before  the  king  concerning  the  vicarage  while  a  plea  is  pending  before 
the  justices  of  the  Bench  concerning  the  right  of  patronage  of  the  rectory. 

Nov.  4.  To  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Wobourne.     Request  to  admit  to  their 

Westminster,  house  John  Gardyner  late  one  of  the  king's  janitors,  and  to  minister  to 

him  such  maintenance  as  William  Petrewich  deceased  had,  making 

him  letters  patent  under  the  seal  of  the  house  with  mention  of  what 

he  shall  so  take,  and  writing  again  by  the  bearer  what  they  will  do 


47    EDWARD    III. 


595 


1373.  Membrane  lOd — cont. 

at  this  request  ;   as  the  king  is  sending  the  said  John  to  them,  wiUing 
to   niaiic  provision  for  his  maintenance.  By  p.s.   [29885.] 

Nov.  20.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  b}'  mainprise  of  Robert  Fraunceys 

Westminstor.  parson  of  St.  Ewin  [Audoeiii)  London,  Richard  Lydle,  Roger 
Chaundeler  and  William  Kirkeby  of  London  to  stay  altogether  the 
execution  of  the  king's  writ  ordering  the  sheriffs  to  Gau.se  Master  Robert 
de  Bermondesey  and  Master  Henry  Ovyng  to  come  before  them, 
and  by  imprisonment  of  their  bodies,  if  they  should  refuse,  to  compel 
them  to  find  mainpernors  who,  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriffs  laid 
upon  them  for  which  the  .sheriffs  would  answer,  wotdd  mainpern  that 
the  said  Robert  and  Henry  should  not  without  the  king's  special  licence 
depart  to  any  foreign  parts,  nor  prosecute  or  cause  to  be  prosecuted 
or  attempted  aught  to  the  ])rejudice  of  the  king  or  his  people,  and  order 
to  stay  the  taking  of  the  bodies  of  the  .said  Robert  and  Henry  for  that 
cause  ;  as  the  king  made  that  order  for  that  information  was  given 
him  that  they  were  purposing  to  pass  over  to  foreign  parts  in  order  to 
prosecute  many  things  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  and  great  number 
of  his  people  ;  but  the  said  parson  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person 
in  chancery,  have  mainperned  for  them  under  a  pain  of  100/.  that  they 
shall  not  pass  nor  send  thither,  nor  cause  or  procure  any  attempt  to 
the  hurt  of  the  king  or  of  his  subjects. 


Membrane  dd. 

Nov.  10.  To  the  chapter  of  the  church  of  St.  Peter  York,  in  the  absence  of 
Westminster,  the  dean.  Request  and  order  upon  their  allegiance,  as  they  love  the 
king  and  his  honour  and  desire  the  safety  and  defence  of  the  realm 
and  church  of  England,  in  consideration  of  the  difficulty  of  the 
business  and  the  perils  which  may  arise  for  lack  of  such  defence,  to 
summon  a  convocation  of  the  bishops,  deans  and  priors  of  cathedral 
churches,  the  abbots,  priors  and  other  elected  persons  exempt  and  not 
exempt,  the  archdeacons,  chapters,  convents,  colleges  and  clergy  of  the 
province  of  York,  to  appear  before  them  in  the  church  of  St.  Peter  or  else- 
where as  they  shall  see  fit  at  the  earliest  possible  day,  and  there  to  lay 
before  them  the  king's  business  and  urge  them  to  grant  him  a  subsidy  in 
aid  of  his  charges  therein,  applying  themselves  with  effect  to  that  purpose, 
and  certif^'ing  in  chancery  the  amount  of  such  subsidy  and  the  terms 
of  payment  ;  as  they  are  not  without  knowledge  how  that  by  advice 
of  John  late  archbishop  of  York  and  other  the  prelates,  nobles  and 
others  of  his  council,  as  well  for  the  furtherance  of  his  war  and  of  his 
rights  and  the  rights  of  the  crown  over  sea  as  for  the  needful  defence  of 
the  realm  and  church  the  king  has  despatched  great  number  of  lords 
and  other  his  lieges  over  sea  and  to  sea,  for  bearing  whose  charges  he 
is  not  sufficient  without  aid  of  his  lieges. 

[Foedera.     Bolls  of  Parliament,  ii.  p.  461.] 

The  like  to  the  guardian  of  the  spiritualit}'  of  the  archbishopric  of 
York  during  the  vacancj'  of  the  see. 

{Ibid.] 

Nov.  25.         Richard  de   Imworth   the  king's  serjeant   at   arms   and  Hugh  de 
Westminster.  Imworth  to  William  de  Mirfeld  clerk  and  Matthew  de  Torkesey  clerk. 
Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  80/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  pay- 
ment, of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Essex. 
Cancelled  on  'payment. 


596 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373. 


Membrane  9d — cont. 


Nov.  26.         John  de  Welton  and  Roger  de  Welford  parson  of  Charwelton  to 
Westminster.  Hugh  de  Gandebv  clerk.     Recognisance  for  20  marks,  to  be  levied  etc. 
of  their  lands  and  chattels  and  of  the  said  Roger's  ecclesiastical  goods 
in  Norhamptonshire. 

Nov.  28.         John  son  of  William  de  Lonesford  of  Echyngham  and  Thomas  son  of 
Westminster.  Thomas  atte  Mote  of  Manfeld  to  Nicholas  de  Spaigne  clerk.     Joint 
and  several  recognisance  for  50/.  payable  by  instalments  ;   to  be  levied 
etc.  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Surrej\ 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


Nov.  29.         John    Lodelowe   knight   to    Philip   de 
Westminster.  1,000  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Salop. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


la   Lee.     Recognisance   for 


Reynold  Watyes  and  John  Watyes  to  Edmund  de  Brugge. 
Recognisance  for  101.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Worcestershire. 

Writing  of  John  West  of  Ayote  Laurence,  being  a  quitclaim  to 
Richard  de  Pembrugge  knight,  Luke  Vynter,  John  Quenild,  Thomas 
Brayles,  Robert  Feltwell,  Robert  Champayn,  John  Byxen,  John 
Wynchcombe  parson  of  Ayote  Laurence,  Walter  Pulter  of  Codecote, 
John  Power,  Simon  Robyn,  John  de  Bameburgh  and  Robert  Fynch 
of  Ayote  Laurence  and  all  other  the  men,  servants  and  tenants  of 
Richard  de  Pembrugge,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  right  in  all  their 
lands  etc,  in  Ayote  Laurence  or  elsewhere  within  the  realm  ;  and 
general  release  of  all  manner  of  actions  real  and  personal,  plaints  and 
demands,  and  of  all  actions  arising  from  any  matter  begun  between 
them  to  this  date.     Dated  Monday  before  St.  Andrew  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  29  November. 

Nov.  29.  To  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Burton  upon  Trent.  Order  to  grant 
Westminster,  to  Richard  de  Treton  the  king's  clerk  dwelling  in  the  chancery  such 
a  pension  of  that  house  as  shall  befit  the  givers  and  should  bind  the 
receiver  to  them,  making  him  letters  patent  thereupon  under  the 
chapter  seal,  and  writing  again  by  the  bearer  what  they  will  do  ;  as 
by  reason  of  his  new  creation  the  abbot  is  bound  in  such  a  pension 
to  one  of  the  king's  clerks  at  the  king's  nomination  until  provision 
be  by  them  made  him  of  a  benefice,  and  the  king  has  nominated  the 
said  Richard,  whose  advancement  he  has  at  heart.         By  p.s.  [29919.] 

Oct.  26.  John  de  Wenlyngburgh  has  the  like  writ  concerning  a  pension, 

Westminster,  addressed  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Shirbourne.         By  p.s.  [29868.] 

Nov.  30.  To  the  sheriflf  of  Dorset.  Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Yevele, 
Westminster.  William  Blake,  Walter  BlankepejTti  and  John  Pokeswell  of  Dorset 
to  stay  the  taking  of  the  body  of  John  Tracy  the  younger,  although 
lately  by  writ  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  attach  him  so  as  to  have 
him  before  the  king  in  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary  next  to  answer  Thomas 
Tynkelden  concerning  a  mayhem  and  breach  of  the  peace  whereof 
he  is  appealing  the  said  John  Tracy  ;  as  the  said  John  Yevele  and  the 
others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainpemed  under  a  pain 
of  20^  to  have  him  before  the  king  at  the  said  day  to  answer  as 
aforesaid. 


47    EDWARD    III.  697 


1373.  Membrane  9i — cont. 

Writing  of  Elizcabeth  Cliauiidos,  sister  and  one  of  the  heirs  of  John 
Chaundos  knight,  being  a  grant,  quitclaim  and  surrender  of  her  free 
will  to  the  king  and  his  heirs  of  her  right  in  the  baronies  of 
St.  Sauveur  le  V'icomte,  Uaunvers  {sic)  and  Dongeville  and  in  the  lands 
of  Sainte  Marie  du  Mont,  Farselles  and  Romylly ,  and  in  all  other  the  lands 
and  possessions  which  were  of  CJodfrev  de  Harecourt  deceased  in  the 
duchy  of  Normandy  or  the  realm  of  France,  and  which  the  king  lately 
held  of  inheritance  by  gift  of  the  said  Godfrey,  and  gave  to  the  said  John 
and  to  his  heirs,  with  all  jurisdictions,  lordships,  franchises,  liberties, 
homages,  royalties,  emoluments,  patronage  of  churches,  fealties  of 
prelates  and  other  ecclesiastical  persons  and  of  others  whatsoever, 
castles,  towns,  forests,  parks,  woods,  waters,  rivers,  ponds,  revenues 
and  profits  whatsoever  thereto  belonging,  the  king  having  for  particular 
causes  after  the  said  John's  death  caused  the  premises  to  be  seized 
into  his  hand,  and  the  same  being  yet  in  his  hand.  Witnesses  : 
Sir  John  Knyvet  the  chancellor,  Sir  Richard  Lescrope  the  treasurer, 
Sir  William  de  Latymer  the  chamberlain.  Sir  Richard  Stury  knight, 
Nicholas  de  Carreu  keeper  of  the  privv  seal.  Dated  London, 
10  November  47  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  December. 

Memorandum  {in  margin)  that  on  17  December  this  writing  was 
delivered  to  Richard  Lescrope  the  treasurer  to  be  kept  in  the  treasury. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Barwe  clerk  and  Thomas  Chamberleyn,  being  a 
quitclaim  to  Thomas  Tirell  knight  and  Alice  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs 
and  assigns  of  the  said  Alice  of  the  manor  of  Bekeswell  by 
Chelmesford  and  36.s.  od.  of  rent  in  Mulsham  co.  Esse.x.  Witnesses  : 
Robert  Gy,  Robert  Hakebourne,  Richard  Rook,  William  Brenge, 
William  de  HuUe.     Dated  Westmhistcr,  3  December  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  December. 

Dec.  4.  John  Bredeford  of  Bockynge  to  William  son  of  Geoffrey  Chiselden. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  100  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Essex. 

Writing  of  Bartholomew  Blaket  of  Oxfordshire,  being  a  general 
release  to  Edmund  Dauvers,  John  de  Pentelowe,  John  Clete  and  William 
de  Shiltewode  parson  of  Chelrejc  of  all  actions  real  and  personal 
by  reason  of  trespass,  debt,  account  or  contract.  Dated 
Wynterburnemayn,  Thursday  after  St.  Andrew  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  December. 

Writing  of  Bartholomew  Blaket  of  Oxfordshire,  being  a  quitclaim 
to  Amery  de  Sancto  Amaado  the  younger,  Richard  de  Haveryng, 
Adam  Louches,  John  de  Rothewell  knights,  Thomas  de  LusteshuU, 
John  Clete,  Gilbert  de  Shotesbroke,  John  Walden  and  John  de  Burton 
of  the  manor  of  Wynterburnemayn  and  all  the  lands  by  them  held  in 
the  parishes  of  Chivele  and  Boxore  co.  Berkes.     Dated  {as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   7   December. 

Membrane  8d. 

Writing  of  Robert  Curszoun  of  Honj'ngham,  being  a  grant  and 
quitclaim    to    William    Cui-szoun    of    Berford,    Reynold    de    Eccles, 


598  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  Sd — cont. 

EdnuuKl  (lurnay,  John  de  HolkhaiiK  William  Berard,  John  de  Foxlec 
and  Roger  de  Beigham  of  the  manor  of  Folsliam  called  Swantones,  a 
messuage,  a  toft,  120  acres  of  land,  8  acres  of  meadow,  18  acres  of  pasture, 
3  acres  of  alder  wood,  1  acre  of  marsh,  4Z.  of  rent  and  a  rent  of  six  cocks  and 
one  capon  in  Folsham,  Byntre,  (Jeyst,  Geystweyt,  Twyford,  Billyngford 
and  Sparham,  a  niessuage  and  appurtenances  in  Norwich  and  a  garden 
adjacent  called  Spynkes  in  the  parish  of  St.  Peter  Mancroft,  and  the 
advowson  of  Twj'ford  church,  all  which  he  and  they  jointly  had  by 
charter  of  feoffment  of  Thomas  Curszoun  of  Byntre,  and  whereof  a  fine 
is  to  be  levied  in  the  king's  court.  Witnesses  :  Philip  de  Carleton, 
Thomas  Gerveys,  John  Prykeys.  Dated  Honyngham,  Sunday  before 
the  Annunciation  47  Edward  IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Wychyngham  St.  Mary, 
30  September,  before  William  de  Wychyngham  by  virtue  of  the  king's 
writ  of  dedimus  poiestalem. 

Charter  of  Simon  de  Codyngton  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to 
Richard  Koc  of  Karsaulton  and  William  Hardegrey,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  his  manor  of  Sutton  with  all  lordships,  lands,  meadows,  feedings, 
pastures,  rents,  services,  woods,  homages,  fealties,  wards,  marriages, 
suits  of  court  etc.,  and  all  his  lands  in  the  towns  of  Ewelle  and  Sutton. 
Witnesses  :  Nicholas  Carru,  John  Gad,  Thomas  Blast',  William  de 
Hayton,  John  Parker.     Dated  Sutton,  23  January  44  Edward  ill. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
9  November  this  year. 

Charter  of  Richard  Koc  of  Carsaulton  and  William  Hardegray, 
giving  with  warranty  to  Sir  Simon  Seint  Michel  lord  of  Codyngton 
knight  and  Idonea  his  wife,  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  their  manor 
of  Sutton  with  all  lordships,  lands,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  rents, 
services,  \\oods,  homages,  fealties,  wards,  marriages,  suits  of  court  etc. 
which  they  had  of  the  said  Simon's  gift  and  feoffment,  also  all  their 
lands  etc.  in  the  towns  of  Ewelle  and  Sutton  which  they  had  likewise 
by  gift  and  feoffment  of  Sir  Simon  as  appears  by  his  charter,  with 
remainder  of  all  the  premises  to  the  executors  or  assigns  of  the  said 
Simon  and  Idonea  for  one  year  after  the  decease  of  the  longest  liver, 
and  thereafter  for  lack  of  heirs  of  their  bodies  the  said  manor  to  William 
son  of  Sir  Simon  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  remainder  for  lack  of  such 
heirs  to  the  right  heirs  of  Sir  Simon,  and  the  said  lands  in  Ewelle  to 
Ralph  son  of  Sir  Simon  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  and  for  lack  of  such 
heirs  to  the  right  heirs  of  Sir  Simon.  Witnesses  {as  the  last).  Dated 
Sutton,  20  March  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  9  November  this  year. 

Nov.  4.  William   de   Swale   to   William   de  Dyghton   clerk.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  400  marks  payable  by  instalments  ;   to  be  levied,  in  default  of  pay- 
ment, of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Yorkshire. 

Nov.  14.  William  Baldewj^ne  of  London  '  sadeler  '  and  John  de  Pountfreit 

Westminster,  of  London  '  sadeler  '  to  William  de  Mirfeld  clerk.     Joint  and  several 
recognisance  for  1201.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  the  city  of  London. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


47   EDWARD  III. 


599 


1373.  Membrane  Sd — cont. 

Robert  Neweland  of  Hmnberstane  to  William  de  Humbcrston  the 
elder  clerk.  Recognisance  for  40i.  payable  by  instalments  ;  to  be 
levied  etc.  in  Lincolnshire. 

Nov.  15.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Wysebech 
Westminster.  '  taillour,'  William  Estby,  John  de  Wytlesseye  and  Thomas 
Normanton  of  London  to  set  free  Gerard  Kersey  from  Neugate  prison 
where  he  is  detained  for  bringing  certain  j)rejudicial  letters  into  the 
realm  ;  as  the  said  John  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
have  mainperned  for  him  under  a  pain  of  40/.  that  he  shall  not  depart 
to  any  foreign  parts  without  the  king's  special  command,  nor  attempt 
or  procure  aught  that  may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  his 
people. 

Vacated,  because  nolhing  is  done  thereupon. 

Nov.  16.         John  Gary  to  W^illiam  Gary.     Recognisance  for  500/.,  to  be  levied, 
Westminster,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Devon. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  William  Gary,  being  a  defeasance  of  the  foregoing 
recognisance,  upon  condition  that  John  de  Gary  or  some  one  in  his  name 
shall  pa}'  the  said  William  240/.  at  Excestre  before  Ghristmas  ne.xt, 
and  shall  make  such  security  to  Simon  Brice  chaplain  for 
111/.  lOs.  2r^(/.  as  he  the  said  William  has  made,  and  upon  the  con- 
ditions therein  hmitcd.  Dated  London,  17  November  47  Edward  III. 
Fretich. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  17  November. 

Nov,  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  son  of 
Westminster.  John  atte  Hille,  by  mainprise  of  Adam  Wilkyn  of  Neuton,  Henry 
Brigham  of  Wandis worth,  John  '  in  the  Wro  '  of  Surrey  and  Richard 
Dorsete  of  Enefeld  of  Essex  (sic)  to  set  him  free  from  the  prison  of 
Norwich  castle  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  at  the  plaint  of  Thomas 
Ghauntecler,  averring  that  the  said  John  made  open  threats  against 
the  body  of  complainant  and  to  burn  his  houses,  the  king  ordered  the 
sheriff  to  cause  the  complainant  to  have  the  king's  peace  firm  against 
the  said  John  according  to  the  custom  of  England,  so  as  to  have 
security  that  no  hurt  or  peril  should  arise  to  complainant's  body  or 
houses  by  the  said  John  or  by  his  procurement,  and  that  by  virtue 
of  the  said  command  the  sherifif  has  taken  the  said  John  and  is  keeping 
him  in  the  said  prison  ;  and  the  said  Adam  and  the  others,  appearing 
in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  for  him  under  a  pain  of 
20/.  to  be  levied  to  the  king's  use  if  by  the  said  John  or  by  his 
procurement  hurt  or  peril  shall  arise  as  aforesaid. 

Nov.  30.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  New  Sarum.  Order  to  desist 
W^estminster.  from  taking  the  body  of  Walter  de  Glj^nton  for  the  cause  hereinafter 
mentioned,  not  troubling  or  grieving  him  in  anywise,  and  bringing  this 
writ  before  the  king  ;  as  lately  for  particular  causes  willing  that  all 
indictments  before  the  ma^'or  and  bailiffs  within  the  liberty  of  the  said 
town  \\  hereupon  the  said  Walter  is  indicted  it  is  said  for  whatsoever 
trespasses,  not  concerning  a  felony,  should  be  determined  before 
him  and  nowhere  else,  the  king  by  writ  ordered  them  to  send  all  such 
indictments  under  their  seals  with  all  things  relating  thereto,  so  that 


600  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  8d — conf. 

the  king  should  have  tliem  in  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary  to  be  determined 
according  to  the  law  and  eu.stom  of  the  realm  ;  and  now  the  said  Walter, 
appearing  in  person  in  cliancery,  has  found  Oliver  de  Harnham,  John  de 
Colyngborne,  John  de  Cantelowe  and  Thomas  Wynterborne  his 
mainpernors,  who  have  maini)erned  under  a  pain  of  201.  to  have  him 
before  the  king  at  that  day  to  answer  touching  the  said  indictments. 

Membrane  Id. 

\Vritmg  of  John  Lependen,  Michael  Aunger  and  John  Stronge, 
granting  to  John  Barenton  of  Hatfeld  Regis,  Geoflfi-ey  de  Hunden 
and  William  Donnebury,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  4Z.  to 
be  taken  at  Christmas  and  Midsummer  by  even  portions  of  44  acres 
of  land.  6  acres  of  meadow,  8  acres  of  pasture,  4  acres  of  wood  and  a  rent 
of  2.'>-.  \d.  in  Writele  lately  purchased  by  the  grantors  of  John 
Lightfot  of  Writele  and  Margery  his  wife  by  fine  thereof  levied  in  the 
king's  court,  and  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  ;  and  they  have  put 
the  said  John  Barenton,  Geoffrey  and  William  in  seisin  thereof  by 
payment  of  M.  Dated  London,  Friday  the  feast  of  St.  Martin  in 
winter  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  11  November. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  grant,  upon  condition 
that  John  Barenton  of  Hatfeld  le  Roy,  Geoffrey  de  Hunden  and 
William  Dannebury,  their  heirs  or  assigns,  shall  not  be  impleaded  nor 
impeached  by  John  Lightfot  of  W^ritle  and  Margery  his  wife  nor  by 
the  said  Margery's  heirs  concerning  the  lands  which  they  the  said  John 
Barenton,  Geoffrey  and  William  have  in  Newelond,  Godithestre  and 
Rothyng  Margarete  by  gift  of  I\  o  de  Sandhurst  and  Margery  his  wife 
b}'  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court,  or  concerning  parcel  thereof,  that 
John  Lependen,  Michael  Aunger  and  John  Stronge  or  an}'  of  them 
shall  not  make  any  alienation  in  fee  simple  or  for  life  to  any  but  the 
said  John  Lightfot  and  his  heirs  of  44  acres  of  land,  6  acres  of 
meadow,  8  acres  of  pasture,  4  acres  of  wood  and  25.  \d.  of  rent  in 
Writle  which  they  have  by  feoffment  of  the  said  John  Lightfot  and 
Margery  his  wife,  nor  of  aiw  parcel  thereof,  and  that  after  such 
feoffment  the  said  John  Lightfot  or  his  heirs  shall  make  no  feoffment 
or  release  to  anj'  man  until  he  and  his  said  wife  shall  at  their  costs 
by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  release  to  the  said  John  Barenton, 
Geoffrey  and  William,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  claim  in  the  lands 
Avhich  they  the  said  John  Barenton,  Geott'rey  and  William  have  by 
feoffment  of  the  said  Ivo  and  Margery  his  wife,  binding  themselves 
and  the  heirs  of  Margerj'  wife  of  John  Lightfot  to  warranty  of  the 
premises.     Dated  (as  the  last).     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  11  November. 

Writing  of  John  Lightfot  of  Writle,  being  a  bond  to  Ivo  de 
Sandhurst  in  lOOL  payable  at  Easter  next.  Dated  12  [sic)  November 
47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  11  November. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  bond,  upon  condition  that 
if  John  Fiphide  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  his  heirs  or  executors, 
shall  sue  for  execution  of  any  statute  merchant  to  him  heretofore 


47    EDWARD    III.  601 


1373.  Membrane  Id — cont. 

made  by  John  Lightfot  of  Writlc,  and  shall  have  execution  upon  the 
lands  which  were  then  of  the  said  Jolin  Lightfot  and  Margoiv  his  wife, 
tlie  said  .John  Lightfot,  his  heirs  or  executors,  sliall  witiiin  one  half  year 
discharge  and  altogether  aniud  such  execution,  so  that  John  de . 
Barenton  of  Hatfeld  Roi,  (;!eoffrey  Hunden  and  William  Donnehury, 
their  heirs,  executors  or  assigns,  shall  lose  nought  nor  be  damaged  by 
such  execution.  13ated  VV^ritele,  13  {sic)  November  47  Edward  III.  French. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  11  November. 

Writing  of  John  Lightfot  of  Writle,  being  a  bond  to  Ivo  Sandherst 
in  20^.  payable  at  Easter  next.  Dated  12  [sic)  November 
47  Edward  IIL 

Condition  that  the  said  John  or  someone  in  his  name  shall  pay  the 
said  Ivo,  his  attorney  or  executors,  50*.  at  Easter  next,  505.  at 
Michaelmas  following,  50<s.  at  Christmas  following,  and  50s.  at  Easter 
following. 

Writing  of  John  Liglitfoot  of  Writle,  being  a  general  release  to  Ivo 
Sandherst    of    all    personal    actions    to    this    date.     Dated    Writle, 

I  November  47  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum     of     acknowledgment     of     the     foregoing     writings, 

II  November. 

Writing  of  Ivo  Sandherst,  being  a  ([uitclaim  to  John  Lightfoot  of 
Writle,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a  yearl}'  rent  of  4/.  to  be  taken  of  all 
the  lands  of  the  said  John  in  Writle  called  Englisshes  and  Manndevilles 
lately  granted  b}'^  the  said  John  to  him  the  said  Ivo,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  saving  to  the  said  Ivo  and  his  heirs  a  yearly  rent  of  2  marks 
of  the  same  lands  to  him  previously  granted  by  John  Barenton  of 
Writle  ;  and  release  to  the  said  John  Liglitfoot  of  all  personal  actions 
to  this  date.  Dated  \Vritle,  Friday  the  morrow  of  Michaelmas 
47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  11  November. 

W^riting  of  Reynold  son  of  John  Smaleman  of  Yatesbur}',  being 
a  grant  and  quitclaim  witli  warrant}'  to  John  Mareys  of  Bradeford 
and  Edith  his  wife  for  their  lives  of  all  the  lands  etc.  which  Emma 
his  mother  late  the  wife  of  the  said  John  Smaleman  and  the  said  Edith 
had  by  gift  of  Robert  de  Bradele  in  Wiltcsir,  namely  in  the  hundred  of 
Bradeford,  Westbury  and  Wherueldoune,  and  which  ought  to  revert 
to  him  the  said  Reynold  after  the  decease  of  the  said  Emma  and  Edith 
and  of  the  heirs  of  the  said  Edith's  body.  Witnesses  :  Humphrey 
Stafford,  John  de  la  Mare,  Philip  Fitz  Waryn  knights,  Thomas 
Hungerford,  Thomas  Gore,  Thomas  Atteford,  John  Westbury,  John 
Derewyne,  Geoffrey  Pulton,  John  Nyweman.  Dated  Bradeford, 
Monday  the  feast  of  St.  Mark  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  30  November. 

Writing  of  Thomas  son  of  Nicol  de  Burton,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  William  de  Swale,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a  messuage 
and  one  carucate  of  land  in  Burton  Leonard  which  the  said  William 
holds  for  a  certain  term  by  lease  of  the  said  Thomas.  Dated  West- 
minster, St.  Andrew's  day  47  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  30  November. 


002  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373,  Membrane  M. 

Charter  of  Geoffrey  de  Hundeii,  John  Barenton  of  Hatfcld  Regis 
and  WiUiain  Dannebury,  granting  to  Henry  Thorlegh,  J(jhn  Brewer, 
Richard  Wolvyne,  Thomas  Whyte  and  John  Popelote  of  Writie,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  four  messuages,  127  acres  of  land,  2  acres  of  meadow, 
3  acres  of  pasture  and  3  acres  of  wood  in  Neulond,  Rothyng  Margarets 
and  Godithestre  co.  Essex,  which  the  grantors  lately  had  by  grant  of 
Ivo  Sandhurst  of  Writie  and  Margery  his  wife  by  fine  levied  in  the 
king's  court  at  Westminster  on  the  morrow  of  All  Souls  47  Edward  IIL 
Witnesses  :  John  de  Bampton,  Micluiel  Aunger,  Henry  Xeuland, 
Edmund  fitz  Simon,  Reynold  attc  Boure.  Dated  Godithestre,  Monday 
after  St.  Katherinc  the  aforesaid  year. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Geoffrey,  2  December. 

Writing  of  John  Brigge,  being  a  grant  and  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  John  Mannyng  clerk,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  lands,  rents,  services, 
meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  mills  etc.  in  the  '  Estmersh  '  and 
'  Westmersh  '  in  the  parishes  of  Great  Kynebelle,  Little  Kynebelle 
and  Eselburgh  co.  Bukingham  which  were  of  Robert  de  la  Mersh, 
and  of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures  etc. 
in  the  town  of  Chelseye  which  were  late  of  \V' alter  Whatmode.  Witnesses : 
Reynold  de  Malj^ns,  Gilbert  Wace  knights,  Richard  Broune,  John 
WythegenemuUe,  Walter  Yonge.     Dated  3  December  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  December. 

Indenture  made  between  Roger  Lestrange  lord  of  Knokyn  of  the  one 
part  and  John  Lestrange  of  Walton  and  Mabel  his  wife  of  the  other 
part,  witnessing  a  gift  by  the  said  Roger  made  with  warranty  to  the 
said  John  and  Mabel  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  of  the  manors  of 
Westbury  co.  Bukingham  and  Kelshale  co.  Cestre  with  the  knights' 
fees,  reversions,  rents  and  services  etc.  to  the  same  pertaining,  and  of 
all  other  lands  which  the  said  Roger  has  in  the  towns  of  Westbury 
and  Kelshale,  with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  heirs  to  the  right  heirs 
of  the  said  John,  rendering  to  the  said  Roger  and  his  heirs  of  the  manor 
of  Kelshale  and  lands  in  that  town  IOO5.  yearly  at  Easter  and 
Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  under  condition  that  if  in  time  to  come 
the  said  Roger,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  at  the  suit  of  the  heirs  of  the  body 
of  John  father  of  the  said  John  shall  by  judgment  in  the  king's  court 
lose  the  manor  of  Mudele  co.  Salop,  or  without  such  judgment  shall 
lawfully  be  thrust  out  therefrom  by  any  stranger  by  reason  of  any  true 
cause  or  matter  before  this  date  had,  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  said 
Roger  and  his  heirs  to  enter  again  the  manors  of  Westbury  and 
Kelshale,  to  whose  hands  soever  they  shall  come,  and  hold  them  in 
their  former  estate  without  gainsaying,  and  if  the  said  Roger,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  shall  lose  or  be  thrust  out  as  aforesaid  from  any  parcel  of 
the  said  manor  of  Mudele,  it  shall  be  lawful  again  to  enter  and  hold 
parcel  of  the  manors  of  Westbury  and  Kelshale  or  one  of  them  of  as 
great  value,  that  if  the  said  John  and  Mabel,  their  heirs  or  assigns  or 
the  tenants  of  the  manor  of  Kelshale  and  the  said  lands  there  shall 
make  default  in  payment  of  the  said  rent  in  whole  or  in  part  after  any 
term,  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  said  Roger  and  his  heirs  to  distrain 
therein,  and  if  the  rent  be  one  half  year  in  arrear,  to  enter  again  and 
hold  the  said  manor  in  name  of  distress  until  thereof  contented  with 
the  arrears,  saving  that  if  the  tenants  aforesaid  be  ready  the  three  first 


47    EDWARD    ITT.  603 


1373.  Membrane  6(1 — cont. 

days  to  make  payment  of  tliat  term's  rent  in  tlie  manse  of  the  manor 
of  Kelshale,  the  said  Roger  and  his  heirs  shall  bo  barred  from  entering 
for  non-payment  thereof.  Witne.sses  :  Baldwin  de  Frevylle  the  elder, 
Fulk  de  Bermyngham,  Baldwin  de  Bereford,  Robert  de  Foulesliurst 
knights.  John  de  Morehalle.  I3ated  Friday  after  St.  Andrew 
47  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  partieiS,  3  December. 

Writing  of  Roger  Lestrange  of  Knokyn,  being  a  letter  of  attorney 
appointing  John  Tame  of  Westbury  and  John  Bradewas  of  Compton 
to  give  John  Lestrange  of  Walton  and  Mabel  his  wife  seisin  of  the 
manors  of  Westbur}'  co.  Bukingham  and  Kelshale  co.  Cestre  and  of  all 
his  lands  etc.  in  the  towns  of  Westbury  and  Kelshale,  according  to  a 
charter  indented  thereof  made.     Dated  {as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  December. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Roger  le  Straunge  lord  of  Knokyn 
and  John  le  Straunge  of  Walton,  witnessing  a  grant  made  by 
the  said  Roger  to  the  said  John,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a  j-early 
rent  of  10/.  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions 
of  the  manor  of  Wadenhowe  co.  Norhampton,  with  power  to 
distrain  for  arrears,  upon  these  conditions,  to  wit  that  so  long 
as  the  said  John  and  Mabel  his  wife  and  the  heirs  of  their 
bodies,  and  for  lack  of  such  heirs  the  right  heirs  of  the  said  John 
and  their  assigns,  shall  hold  and  enjoy  the  manor  of  Kelshale  co. 
Cestre  without  losing  the  same  or  any  parcel  thereof  by  judgment 
in  the  king's  court  at  the  suit  of  the  said  Roger,  of  Dame  Alina  his  wife 
or  of  his  heirs,  payment  of  the  said  rent  shall  cease  \d.  thereof  excepted, 
that  in  case  they  so  lose  the  said  manor,  or  be  therefrom  lawfully 
ousted  by  any  stranger  by  true  title  had  before  this  date,  the  whole 
of  the  said  rent  shall  be  for  ever  paid,  that  in  case  parcel  thereof  be  so 
lost,  so  much  of  the  same  shall  be  paid  as  the  proportion  lost,  and  that 
in  ca.se  the  said  John  and  Mabel,  their  heirs  or  assigns,  shall  be  impleaded 
concerning  the  said  manor  or  parcel  thereof  by  a  stranger  other  than 
Sir  Roger,  Dame  Alina  or  the  heirs  of  Sir  Roger,  and  shall  vouch  to 
warranty  Sir  Roger  or  his  heirs,  and  by  judgment  upon  that  plea 
shall  lose  the  said  manor  of  parcel  thereof,  and  by  force  of  such  voucher 
shall  have  execution  against  Sir  Roger  or  his  heirs  to  the  value  of 
the  tenements  so  lost,  or  by  writ  of  warranty  of  charter  by  reason  of 
their  loss  shall  have  execution  to  the  value  thereof,  so  long  as  such 
execution  shall  remain  in  force  an  abatement  of  the  said  rent  shall 
j'carly  be  made  up  to  the  j'early  value  of  the  lands  so  made  over  ; 
and  Sir  Roger  has  paid  to  the  said  John  \d.  in  name  of  seisin.  Dated 
Saturday  after  St.  Andrew  47  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  3  December. 

Writing  of  John  son  of  William  Knyght  of  Gaddon,  cousin  and  heir 
of  Richard  son  of  William  de  Rynoldeshegh,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Henry 
Percehay,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands  called  Chaldewillelond, 
the  Broke  and  the  Haym  in  the  parish  of  Holecombe  Roges. 
Witnesses :  Walter  Bluet  knight,  Richard  Bere,  John  Prust  of 
Scridehay.     Dated  Monday  the  eve  of  St.  Nicholas  47  Edward  III. 

MemoraJidum  of  acknowledgment,  6  December. 


604  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  bd. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Roger  I^strange  of  Knokyn  and 
John  Lestrange  of  Walton,  witnessing  a  gift  made  by  Sir  Roger  to  the 
said  John,  liis  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a  yearly  rent  of  30/.  to  be  taken 
at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portioiLs  of  the  manor  of  Wadenho 
CO.  Northampton  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears,  upon  the.se 
conditions,  to  wit  that  so  long  as  the  said  John  and  Mabel  his  wife 
and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  for  lack  of  such  Issue  the  right  heirs  of 
the  said  John  and  their  assigns,  shall  hold  and  enjoy  the  manor  of 
Westbury  co.  Bukingham  without  losing  the  .same  or  any  parcel  thereof 
by  judgment  in  the  king's  court  at  the  suit  of  Sir  Roger,  Dame  Alina 
his  wife  or  of  his  heirs,  payment  of  the  said  rent  shall  cease  \d.  excepted, 
that  in  case  they  so  lose  the  said  manor  or  be  therefrom  lawfully  ousted 
by  any  stranger  by  true  title  had  before  this  date,  the  whole  rent  shall 
be  for  ever  paid,  that  in  case  parcel  thereof  be  so  lost,  .so  much  of  the 
same  shall  be  paid  as  the  proportion  lost,  and  that  in  case  the  said  John 
and  Mabel,  their  heirs  or  assigns,  shc\ll  be  impleaded  concerning  the  said 
manor  or  parcel  thereof  by  a  stranger  other  than  Sir  Roger,  Dame 
Alina  or  the  heirs  of  Sir  Roger,  and  .shall  vouch  to  warranty  Sir  Roger 
or  his  heirs,  and  by  judgment  upon  that  plea  shall  lo.se  the  said  manor 
or  parcel  thereof,  and  by  force  of  such  voucher  shall  have  execution 
against  Sir  Roger  or  his  heirs  to  the  value  of  the  tenements  so  lost, 
or  by  writ  of  warranty  of  charter  by  reason  of  their  loss  shall  have 
execution  to  the  value  thereof,  so  long  as  such  execution  shall  remain 
in  force  an  abatement  of  the  said  rent  shall  yearly  be  made  up  to  the 
yearly  value  of  the  lands  so  made  over  ;  and  Sir  Roger  has  paid  to  the 
said  John  \d.  in  name  of  seisin.  Dated  Saturday  after  St.  Andrew 
47  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  3  December. 

Charter  indented  made  between  Thomas  de  Hoo  knight  and  Edmund 
de  Wakyngham,  witnessing  a  grant  with  warranty  to  the  said  Edmund 
and  Isabel  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with  reversion  for 
lack  of  such  heirs  to  the  said  Thomas  and  his  heirs,  of  a  manor  called 
the  manor  of  Everesdon  in  Great  and  Little  Everesdon,  Wympole, 
Kyngeston,  Toft,  Berton  and  Gransete  co.  Cantebrigge,  with  wards, 
marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  rents,  services  etc.,  which  manor  is  now 
held  by  the  said  Isabel  to  her  and  the  heirs  of  her  body,  with  reversion 
as  aforesaid.  Witnesses  :  Thomas  de  Bassyngborne  knight,  John 
Cheyne,  William  Bateman.  Dated  Little  Everesdon,  Monday  after 
St.  Katlierine  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  3  December. 

Charter  of  John  Bredeford  of  Bockyng  co.  Essex,  giving  with 
warranty  to  Henry  Persehay,  John  Martyn  chaplain  and  W^illiam 
Chiselden  son  of  Geoff  re}'  Chiselden,  and  to  the  heirs  and  assigns  of 
the  said  William,  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services,  meadows,  woods, 
pastures  etc.  called  Bretonesland  in  Ha  very  ng  atte  Boure  co.  Essex, 
and  all  other  lands,  rents  and  services  of  free  tenants  and  neifs,  the 
neifs  and  all  that  goes  with  them,  and  all  reversions  which  he  the  said 
John  Bredeford  had  b}'  gift  and  feoffment  of  Richard  de  Batheleye, 
and  the  said  Richard  with  Sir  Nicholas  de  Spaigne,  Sir  John  de 
Folkyngham  and  Sir  Robert  de  Muskham  clerks  had  by  gift  and 
feoffment  of  John  Newmarche.     Witnesses  :    Thomas  Yonge,   Hugh 


47  EDWARD  III.  606 


1373.  Membrane  5d — cont. 

Ymw'orth,  John   Payn,  John  Olyve,  llobort  Colyn.     Datod  Haveryng 
atte  Boure.  Friday  after  St.  Andrew  47   I'Mward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  December. 

Writing  of  Walter  Tudenham  of  London,  being  a  quitclaim  to 
William  Chiselden  son  of  Geoffrey  Chiselden,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  all  right  in  the  lands  etc.  at  Hav^eryng  atte  Boure  which  the  said 
William  has  purchased  of  John  Bredeford  of  Boclcyngco.  Essex.  Dated 
Saturday  after  St.  Andrew  47  Kdward  III. 

Memorandum   of  acknowledgment,   4   December. 

Writing  of  John  Bredeford  of  Bockyng  co.  Essex,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  William  Chiselden  .son  of  Geoflfrey  Chiselden,  his 
heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  lands,  rents  and  services  etc.  at  Haveryng 
atte  Boure  which  he  the  said  John  gave  to  the  said  William  by  charter 
of  feoffment.     Dated  Sunday  after  St.  Andrew  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum   of   acknowledgment,   4   December. 

Writing  of  John  de  Pentelowe,  being  a  release  to  Bartholomew 
Blaket  of  all  actions,  plaints  and  demands  real  and  personal  against 
the  said  Bartholomew  and  other  his  adherents  and  supporters 
wliatsoever.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Richard  de  Abburbury,  Walter  atte 
Halle,  Simon  Fifhvde.  Dated  Cornewelle,  the  feast  of  St.  Andrew 
47  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  John  de  Pentelowe,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Walter  atte  Halle 
of  .\bberbury,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Cornewelle,  co. 
Oxford,  and  of  all  the  said  Walter's  lands  in  Cornewelle  and 
Kenghani  co.  Oxford.     Dated  (^'ornewelle,  7  December  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings, 
7  December. 

Membrane  Ad. 

Nov.  20.  To  the  sherifT  of  Xotyngham.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Nicholas 
Westminster,  le  Milnewryght  of  Ledes,  by  mainprise  of  Ralph  Passelewe,  William  de 
Rothelay  and  Thomas  de  Norton  of  Yorkshire  to  stay  the  exigents 
against  him  and  the  taking  of  his  body,  bringing  this  writ  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  John  de  Serleby 
is  impleading  him  before  the  said  justices  to  render  an  account  for  the 
time  that  he  was  receiver  of  the  said  John's  moneys,  that  he  is  put 
in  exigents  in  Notynghamshire  to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came  not 
before  those  justices  to  answer  the  said  John,  and  that  he  is  ready 
to  stand  to  right  in  all  things ;  and  the  said  Ralph  and  the  otliers, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of 
20/.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  at  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents 
is  returnable. 

Dec.  14.  To   the   sheriff   of   Norffolk.     Order   by   mainprise  of  William   de 

Westminster.  Norwich  '  cordewancr  "  and  Henry  Gryme  of  London  to  stay  the  taking 
of  the  bodv  of  John  de  Irlam  of  Norwich,  bringing  this  writ  before  the 
justices  at  Westminster  in  the  (|uinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  next,  although 
lately  by  writ  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  take  him  so  as  to  have  him 
before  those  justices  on  the  aforesaid  day  to  answer  John  Taverham 


606 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  Ad — cont. 

concerning  an  alleged  debt  of  25/.  ;  as  he  has  petitioned  the  king  for 
a  stay,  seeing  that  he  is  ready  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things,  and  to 
answer  the  plaintiff  ;  and  the  said  William  and  Henry,  appearing  in 
person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  40/.  to  have  him 
before  the  said  justices  at  that  day. 

Dec.  12.  Lawrence  dc  Pabenham  knight  to  Alice  de  Pereris.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  100/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Bedfordshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  as  appears  by  a  memorandum  enrolled  below. 

Dec.  13.  Ellen  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Hattefeld  late  citizen  of  London  to 

Westminster.  William  de  Latymer  lord  of  Danby.     Recogni-sance  for  000/.,  to  be 
levied  etc.  in  Northumberland. 


Nov.  20. 
Westminster. 


Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  so  long  as 
William  Latymer  lord  of  Danby,  his  heirs  or  assigns  or  those  having  their 
estate,  shall  peaceably  hold  a  tenement  in  London  called  the  Erber 
in  the  parish  of  St.  Mary  Bothawe  in  Douegate  ward,  with  all  shops, 
solars,  cellars  and  other  houses,  gardens  and  rents  etc.,  and  the 
advowson  of  the  church  of  St.  Mary  aforesaid,  which  were  of  John  de 
Hatfeld  late  citizen  of  London,  and  were  by  his  testament  devised 
to  Ellen  his  wife  for  lite,  and  which  the  said  Ellen  by  her  writing  dated 
11  December  47  Edward  III  leased  during  her  life  to  the  said  William, 
without  being  thrust  out  therefrom  or  from  any  parcel  thereof  by  any 
having  right  of  entry  by  title  begun  since  the  said  John's  death,  or  by 
any  judgment  and  execution  or  entry  after  judgment  given  made 
by  any  having  such  right,  unless  such  judgment  be  given  by  default 
of  the  said  William,  his  heirs  or  those  having  their  estate,  or  b}'  lack 
of  defence,  and  upon  condition  that  the  said  W^illiam,  his  heirs  and 
assigns  and  those  having  their  estate,  shall  hold  the  premises  and  every 
parcel  thereof  without  being  charged  toward  the  king  with  aught 
to  him  due  originating  since  the  said  John's  death,  unless  by  default 
etc.  aforesaid,  and  without  being  charged  toward  any  other  person  by 
recognisance  of  debt  made  in  any  court  {place)  since  the  said  John's 
death,  with  any  rent  charge,  annuity  or  debt  originating  since  the  said 
John's  death,  unless  it  be  by  default  etc.  as  aforesaid,  and  that  if  they  be 
so  charged  the  said  Ellen  or  her  heirs  shall  within  one  year  after  warning 
given  recompense  the  said  William,  his  executors  or  heirs  or  those  having 
their  estate  for  every  such  charge.  Dated  London,  14  December 
47  Edw^ard  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  14  December. 

To  the  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Colcestre.  Order  to  cause  proclamation 
to  be  made  that  all  merchants,  vintners  and  others  shall  under  pain 
of  forfeiture  thereof  cause  their  wines  for  sale  to  be  gauged  without 
delay,  and  order  to  make  search  and  cause  all  such  wines  which  shall 
be  found  exposed  for  sale  and  not  gauged  after  the  proclamation  to  be 
taken  as  forfeit  into  the  king's  hand  according  to  the  statutes,  taking 
and  imprisoning  until  further  order  those  who  make  debate  and 
resistance  and  will  not  suffer  their  wines  to  be  gauged,  and  certifying 
in  chancery  from  time  to  time  under  their  seals  the  wines  so  arrested, 
their  price  and  description,  and  the  owners  thereof  ;  as  in  the  statute 
holden  (sic)  at  W^estminster  in  the  27th  year  of  the  reign  it  is  contained 


47   EDWARD  III. 


607 


1373.  Membrane  4d — cont. 

(among  otlier  things)  that  wines  red  and  white  brought  for  sale  to 
ICnghind,  Irehind  and  Wales  shall  be  well  and  truly  gauged  by  the 
king's  ganger  or  his  deputy,  so  that  if  any  man  shall  cause  hindrance 
or  debate  thereupon  and  will  not  suffer  his  wines  to  be  gauged  he  shall 
forfeit  the  same,  be  punished  by  iinprisoiunent,  and  l)e  ransomed  at  the 
king's  will,  that  if  the  tun  or  pipe  for  sale  shall  contain  less  than  it  ought 
according  to  the  assize  allowance  shall  i)e  made  of  the  price  of  so  much 
wine  as  shall  be  lacking  according  to  the  price  of  such  tun  or  pipe, 
and  that  if  any  man  shall  sell  a  tun  or  pipe  of  wine  not  gauged,  the 
vendor  shall  forfeit  to  the  king  the  wine  or  the  price  thereof  ;  and  now 
the  king  is  informed  that  certain  merchants  as  well  vintners  of  that 
town  as  others,  seekijig  unlawful  and  excessive  gain,  are  without  the 
knowledge  of  his  ganger  causing  great  number  of  tuns  and  pipes  of 
wine  not  gauged  to  be  lodged,  and  have  long  been  selling  and  do  daily 
sell  the  same  to  many  of  the  people  as  containing  the  right  prise, 
receiving  the  full  price,  though  the  same  do  not  but  are  much  lacking, 
in  contempt  of  the  king,  to  the  hurt  and  deception  of  the  people,  the 
loss  and  prejudice  of  the  ganger  and  contrary  to  the  statutes  ;  and  the 
king's  will  is  to  obviate  such  fraud,  and  that  the  statutes  be  observed. 

Dec.  15.  To  Walter  de  Haywode.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Robert  Wetherfeld, 

Westminster.  Adam  Lenthale,  Walter  Salman  and  Henry  de  Moyser  of  London  to 
stay  the  taking  of  the  body  of  John  Quenyld  otherwise  called  John 
Burnton  and  the  publication  of  outlawry  against  him,  bringing  this 
writ  before  the  king  ;  as  lately  by  writ  the  king  commanded  the  said 
Walter  to  send  under  his  seal  all  indictments  made  before  him  and  his 
fellows,  the  guardians  of  the  peace  and  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer 
in  the  count}'  of  Suthamptoti,  concerning  certain  felonies  and  trespasses 
for  which  the  said  John  is  indicted  it  is  said,  also  that  writ,  so  that  the 
king  should  have  them  in  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary  in  order  to  deal 
furtlier  therew  ith  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  England  ;  and 
now  the  said  Robert  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
have  mainperned  for  the  said  John  body  for  body  and  under  a  pain  of 
40/.  to  have  him  before  the  king  at  the  day  named. 

Beatrice  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  de  Breouse  to  Bernard  Brocas 
knight.  Kecogni.sance  for  400/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  her  lands  and  chattels  in  Sussex. 

Memornnduin  that  this  recognisance  was  taken  b}'  William  Tauk 
by  writ,  which  is  on  the  file  among  the  king's  writs  of  this  year. 

Membrane  Zd. 

Dec.  8.  To    the    sheriffs    of    London.     Order    by    mainprise    of    Robert 

Westminster.  Courtman,  Philip  de  Thorp  of  Lincolnshire,  Matthew  Kelby  of  Devon 
and  John  de  Carleton  of  NorfTolk  to  stay  the  exigents  against  Richard 
Smyth  of  Carleton  and  the  taking  of  his  body,  bringing  this  writ  before 
the  justices  of  the  Bench  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable  ; 
as  on  his  behalf  it  is  shewn  the  king  that  lately  without  his  knowledge 
he  is  put  in  exigents  in  the  busting  of  London  to  be  outlawed  for  that 
he  came  not  before  the  said  justices  to  answer  William  de  Quappelade 
concerning  an  alleged  debt  of  20  marks,  praying  a  stay,  as  he  is  ready 
so  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Robert 
and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned 
under  a  pain  of  40/.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  at  the  day  named. 


Dec.  3L 

Westminster. 


608  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  3d — cont. 

Dec.  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norharnpton.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Richard 
VVestmiiiBter.  Baret,  William  Fremon,  Robert  Bray  and  Roger  Bacoun  of 
Norhamptonshire  to  stay  the  further  execution  of  the  king's  late  writ 
ordering  the  sheriff  to  attach  John  Bonevylle  so  as  to  have  him  before 
the  king  in  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary  to  answer  as  well  the  king  as 
Frenumd  de  la  Port  of  Xorhampton  wherefore  without  reasonal)le  cause 
and  the  said  Frenuind's  licence  he  withdrew  from  his  service  before 
the  term  agreed  contrary  to  the  ordinance  made  ])y  the  king  and  council 
for  the  public  advantage  of  the  realm,  and  order  to  bring  this  writ 
before  the  king  ;  as  the  said  Richard  and  the  others,  appearing  in 
person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have 
the  said  John's  body  before  the  king  at  the  day  named. 

Nov.  30.  To  John  de  Cavendissh  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hold 

Westminster,  pleas  before  the  king.  Notice  that  acknowledgment  has  been  made 
by  Alexander  de  Besford,  to  whom  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted 
the  marriage  of  Maud  one  of  tlie  daughters  and  lieirs  of  John  Hastang 
tenant  in  chief  if  unmarried,  and  whatever  pertains  to  the  king  if  she 
be  married,  and  by  Jolin  de  Salesbury  the  king's  esquire,  to  whom  the 
king  likewise  granted  the  marriage  of  Joan  another  daughter  and  heir 
of  John  Hastang,  namely  by  the  said  Alexander  tliat  he  is  contented 
of  the  value  of  the  said  Maud's  marriage,  and  by  the  said  John  de 
Salesbury  that  the  said  Joan's  body  is  delivered  to  him ;  in  order  that 
they  may  the  better  proceed  [in]  the  cause  in  chancery  between  the 
king  and  Ralph  late  earl  of  [Stafford]  concerning  the  wardship  of  John 
Hastang's  land  and  heirs,  which  cause  the  king  after  sent  for  debate 
before  the  king. 

At  the  grievous  complaint  of  the  commons  of  England  by 
their  petition,  laid  before  tliis  present  parliament  holden  at  West- 
minster on  the  morrow  of  St.  Edmund  the  Martyr  47  Edward  III, 
containing  the  hurt  and  loss  to  the  lords  and  all  the  commons 
arising  for  that  woollen  cloths  made  in  England,  as  well  cloths  of 
colour  as  '  raj'cs,'  keep  not  in  length  and  breadth  as  they  used 
to  do,  it  is  by  the  king,  prelates,  lords  and  commons  in  the  said 
parliament  agreed  that  cloths  to  be  made  in  England  shall  be  of  measure 
following,  to  wit  cloths  of  '  raye  '  28  ells  in  length  measured  by  the  list 
and  5  quarters  in  breadth,  cloths  of  colour  26  ells  in  length  measured 
by  the  fold  {le  doos)  and  6  quarters  in  breadth  at  least,  and  half  cloths 
of  either  sort  in  length  by  proportion  and  in  breadth  as  aforesaid,  and 
that  if  any  cloth  of  either  sort  be  found  exposed  for  sale  after  1  August 
next  not  containing  such  measure  it  shall  be  forfeit  to  the  king  in  whose 
hands  soever  it  be  found  ;  and  it  is  not  the  intent  of  the  king,  lords  and 
commons  that  the  cloths  made  by  men  for  their  own  use  and  for  their 
household  or  by  other  mean  men  for  sale*  not  containing  this  measure 
shall  be  forfeit. 

Likewise,  whereas  the  men  of  Scotland  by  their  subtlety  have  drawn 
the  good  silver  money  out  of  England  and  have  put  it  in  their  coinage 
at  less  value  than  is  English  money,  and  so  it  is  current  in  payment  in 
the  realm  of  England  to  the  hurt  and  deception  of  the  king,  lords  and 
commons,  it  is  ordered  and  agreed  that  the  coin  of  4(Z.  Scots  shall  be 
current  at  3c?,  value,  and  smaller  coin  according  to  the  quantity  ;   and 

*  '  Or  for  sale  to  meaner  men,'  according  to  the  text  printed  in  Statutes  of  the 
Realm. 


47  EDWARD  III.  009 


1373.  Membrane  Sd — cont. 

that  if  this  Scots  raonej'  be  impaired  it  shall  be  taken  at  a  smaller 
price  according  to  the  amount  of  the  depreciation.     French. 

[Fcedera.  Statutes  of  the  Realm.  Compare  Rolls  of  Parliament, 
ii.  318.] 

Nov.  26.         To  the  slieriflf  of  Kent.     Order  upon  sight  thereof  to  order  the  tenor 

Westminster,  of  certain  ordinances  made  by  assent  of  the  prelates,  lords  and  commons 

of  England  in  this  present  parliament  assembled  at  Westminster  on  the 

morrow  of  St.  Edmund  the  King  and  herewith  enclosed  to  be  forthwith 

proclaimed  and  observed.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Foedera.] 

The  like  to  singular  the  sheriffs  throughout  England. 

Also  to  Thomas  bishop  of  Durham,  and  to  William  Latymere  constable 
of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports  or  to  his  lieutenant. 

[Ibid.] 

Dec.  21.  Philip  archbishop  of  Cassell  in  Ireland  to  William  Latymere  the 

Westminster,  king's  chamberlain  and  John  Knyvet  chancellor  of  England. 
Recognisance  for  20/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Ireland. 

Defeasance  thereof,  upon  condition  that  the  archbishop  pay  10/.  at 
Whitsuntide  next. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  John. 


1374. 


Writing  of  Geoffrey  Michel  of  Great  Gelham,  gi\nng  to  Roger  Keterich 
of  Shaldeford,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  during  the  life  of  Robert  de  Boytone, 
Mary  his  wife  and  John  their  son  a  3'early  rent  of  4/.  135.  4f/.  to  be  taken 
at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  the  said  Geoffrey's 
manor  called  Eldehalle  in  the  town  of  Gelham  aforesaid  and  of  all  other 
his  lands  called  Grapynelis  in  the  same  town,  with  power  to  distrain 
for  arrears  ;  and  he  has  paid  the  said  Roger  12c?.  in  name  of  seisin, 
in  presence  of  Roger  Toly,  Thomas  Ryvell  and  Nicholas  Conispool. 
Dated  Shaldeford,  Sunday  after  tlie  Conception  47  Ed\^ard  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  21  January'. 

Indenture  made  at  Schaldeford  co.  Essex  on  Monday  after  the 
Conception  47  Edward  III  between  Roger  Keterich  of  Schaldeford  and 
Geoffrey  Michel  of  Great  Gelham  co.  Essex,  being  the  defeasance  of 
a  yearly  rent  of  4/.  135.  4f?.  by  the  said  Geoffrey  granted  to  the  said 
Roger,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  to  be  taken  of  the  manor  called  Eldehalle 
and  of  lands  called  Grapynelis  in  the  town  of  Great  Gelham  during  the 
lives  of  Robert  de  Boitone,  Mary  his  wife  and  John  their  son,  upon 
condition  that  the  said  Geoffrey  or  some  other  for  him  shall  pay  to  the 
said  Robert,  Mary  and  John  a  yearly  rent  of  4/.,  to  them  granted  by 
the  said  Geoffrey  to  be  taken  during  their  lives  of  certain  lands  in  the 
town  of  Finch%niggefeld  sometime  of  John  Houel,  so  that  the  said  Roger, 
who  has  since  purchased  those  lands  of  the  said  Geoffrey,  and  the 
tenants  thereof  after  him  shall  not  suffer  distress  or  damage  by  reason 
of  the  life  rent  granted  to  the  said  Robert,  Mary  and  John,  and  that 
if  so  be  the}'  suffer  such  distress  the  said  Geoffrey  or  some  one  for  him 
shaU  within  one  quarter  of  a  j'ear  pay  the  said  rent,  thereof 
acquitting  the  said  Roger  and  those  tenants,  and  recompensing  them 
for  any  damage  thereby  arising.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  21  January. 

CR  39 


610 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1374.  Membrane  2d. 

Writing  indented  of  John  bishop  of  Lincoln,  Simon  Ward  of  Carleton, 
John  Holt  and  John  de  Thame,  being  a  lease  to  Sir  William  la  Zouche 
of  Harvngworth  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  for  their  lives  of  all  the 
lessors'  lands  in  Eynesford  and  Igtham  co.  Kent,  Kyngsworthy  co. 
Suthampton,  Ahenlegh  co.  Suffolk  and  Whethamstede  co.  Hertford 
with  fees,  advowsons,  rents,  services,  reversions  of  tenants 
whatsoever,  heriots,  neifs  and  their  issues  and  all  other  liberties  and 
customs  pertaining  thereto,  which  they  had  by  feoffment  of  Sir  William, 
doing  for  the  lessors,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  the  services  due  and 
accustomed  to  the  chief  lords  of  the  fees  and  to  others,  so  that  after 
the  decease  of  the  said  William  and  Elizabeth  the  premises  shall  remain 
wholly  to  Thomas  their  son  for  life,  doing  as  aforesaid  ;  and  covenant 
that  the  said  William,  Elizabeth  and  Thomas  shall  not  be  impeached 
for  waste  in  the  premises  by  the  lessors,  their  heirs  or  assigns. 
Witnesses  :  John  Knyvet,  John  Basjmgs,  John  Boyville  knights, 
Nicholas  Grene  of  Isham,  Robert  de  Moolton  clerks,  John  de  Tendale. 
Dated  Lidyngton,  Sunday  the  feast  of  St.  Edmund  King  and  Martyr 
47  Edward  IIL     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  bishop,  Jolm  Holt 
and  John  de  Thame  in  the  chancery  at  Lidyngton  2  January,  and  by 
the  said  Simon  at  Oundel  4  January. 

Jan.  2.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Robert  Bray, 

Westminster.  William  Milner,  Roger  Fareman  and  Thomas  CotjTigham  of 
Norhamptonshire  to  stay  the  taking  of  the  body  of  John  Muleward  of 
Scaldewell,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  at  Westminster, 
although  lately  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  take 
him,  so  as  to  have  his  body  before  the  said  justices  in  the  octaves  of  the 
Purification  to  answer  John  Hedoun  concerning  a  plea  for  rendering 
account  for  the  time  he  was  receiver  of  the  plaintiff's  moneys  ;  as  the 
said  Robert  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have 
mainperned  under  a  pain  of  10/.  to  have  his  body  before  the  said 
justices  at  that  day. 

Jan.  14.  To  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Burton  upon  Trent.     Request  to  admit 

Kings         Robert  Curson  the  king's  saddler  to  their  house  and    minister  to  him 

Langley.*  s,nc\\  maintenance  as  John  Hug'  deceased  had  at  the  late  king's  request, 
making  him  letters  patent  under  the  common  seal  of  their  house 
with  mention  of  what  he  shall  so  take,  for  which  the  king  will  be  bound 
to  that  house,  and  writing  again  by  the  bearer  what  they  will  do  at  this 
request  ;  as  the  king  has  thought  fit  to  send  the  said  Robert  to  them, 
willing  to  make  provision  for  his  maintenance.  By  p.s.  [29973.] 


Jan.  10.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Henry  Chyksond, 

Westminster.  Simon  Payn,  John  Spicer  of  Fletstrete  and  John  de  Berefeld  of 
London  to  set  free  Walter  Tannere  chaplain  from  Neugate  gaol 
according  to  the  statute,  if  of  good  fame,  bringing  this  writ  before  the 
justices  appointed  to  deliver  the  said  gaol  at  the  next  day  for  gaol 
delivery  ;  as  he  is  taken  and  there  imprisoned  upon  an  appeal  against 
him  made  by  Adam  de  Kjiigeston  of  Scotland  the  king's  prover,  being 
lately  in  the  said  gaol,  concerning  a  felony  by  them  together  committed 
in  Wiltesir,  and  the  said  prover  is  now  dead  as  appears  by  certificate 

*  The  king's  manor  of  Childernelangele. 


47  EDWARD  III.  611 


1374.  Membrane  2d — cont. 

of  the  sheriffs  sent  into  chancery  at  the  king's  command  ;  and  on  behalf 
of  the  said  Walter  petition  is  made  to  the  king  for  his  release  according 
to  the  statute  lately  published  at  Westminster,  wherein  it  is  contained 
that  men  appealed  by  provers  arc  reple\  isable  after  the  death  of  such 
provers  ;  and  the  said  Henry  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in 
chancery,  have  mainperned  body  for  body  and  under  a  pain  of  401.  to 
have  him  before  the  said  justices  at  the  day  named  in  order  to  stand  to 
right  touching  the  said  appeal. 

Jan.  20.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Adam  Lyncale, 

Westminster.  William  Biker,  John  Prentys  '  fuller  '  and  Henry  Gererd  of  London  to 
stay  altogether  the  further  execution  of  the  king's  late  writ  ordering 
the  sheriffs  to  cause  John  Dod  '  drawyer  '  and  Robert  Baas  '  fuller  ' 
to  come  before  them,  and  to  compel  them  to  find  mainpernors  who,  under 
a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriffs  laid  upon  them  for  which  the  sheriffs  would 
answer  to  the  king,  would  mainpern  that  the  said  John  Dod  and  Robert 
should  cause  or  procure  no  hurt  or  harm  to  Alexander  Godyngge, 
and  if  they  should  refuse,  to  commit  them  to  Neugate  gaol  there  to  be 
kept  in  safe  custody  until  they  would  willingly  so  do  ;  as  that  order 
was  made  at  the  prayer  of  the  said  Alexander,  averring  that  they  had 
grievously  threatened  him  in  life  and  limbs  ;  but  the  said  Adam  and 
the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancer^',  have  mainperned  under 
a  pain  of  40Z.  that  the  said  John  Dod  and  Robert  shall  cause  or  procure 
no  hurt  or  harm  to  the  said  Alexander. 

1373.  Membrane  Id. 

Dec.  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln.     Order  to  cause  John  Dymmok  and  John 

Westminster,  de  Multon  knights  of  the  shire  at  the  parliament  summoned  at 
Westminster  on  the  morrow  of  St.  Edmund  the  King  last  to  have  of  the 
commons  of  the  coimty,  except  cities  and  boroughs  from  which  citizens 
and  burgesses  came  to  the  said  parliament,  11/.  125.  for  their  expenses 
in  coming  thither,  there  abiding,  and  thence  returning  to  their  own 
again,  namely  4s.  a  day  each  for  29  days. 
The  following  have  the  like  writs  : 

Wiltesir.     Robert  de   la   Mare   and   Nicholas   Bonham    10/.   for 

25  days. 
Yorkshire.     Robert  de  Roucliff  and  William  Percehay  12/.  85.  for 

31  dajs. 
The  countj^  of  Suthampton.     Bernard  Brokas  4/.  125.  for  23  days. 
Kent.     Stephen   de   \'aloygne   and    Richard   Charles   8/.  85.   for 

21  days. 
Cornwall.     John  de  Albo  Monasterio  and  William  Brun  12/.  85. 

for  31  days. 
Lancashire.     William  de  Atherton  and  John  de  Holcroft  12/.  85. 

for  31  days. 
Herefordshire.     John  Eynesford  and  Ralph  de  LjTigayn  11/.  125. 

for  29  days. 
Oxfordshire.     Re3;Tiold  de   Mal3Tis   and   Richard   de   Adderbury 

9/.  45.  for  23  days. 
Berkshire.     John  de  Foxele  and  Thomas  Langford  9/.  45.   for 

23  days. 
Norhamptonshire.     Richard  Wydeville  and  Thomas  de  Baa  10/.  for 
25  days. 


612  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1373.  Membrane  Id — cont. 

Westmorland.     Roland      de      Thornburgh      and      William      de 

Thornburgh  13/.  4^.  for  33  days. 
Bukinghamshire.     John  Cheyne  and  Roger  Puttenham  9/.  4».  for 

23  days. 
Bedfordshire.     John  Ragoun  and  Thomas  atte  Hoo  9/.  4s.  for 

23  days. 
Roteland.     Richard  Nevylle  and  John  Knotte  of  Gretham  101.  168. 

for  27  days. 
Salop.     John  de  Lodelowe  and  Adam  de  Peshale  111.   12s.  for 

29  days. 
Middlesex.     John  de  Peckebrigge  and  Robert  de  Anesty  7/.  125. 

for  19  days. 
Cumberland.     Gilbert  de  Culwen  and  Adam  Parvyng  13/.  4«.  for 

33  days. 
Gloucestershire.     John  Giffard  of  Weston  and  Thomas  Hathewy 

10/.  165.  for  27  days. 
Notynghamshire.     Simon  de  Leke  and  John  de  Gaytford  10/.  IQs. 

for  27  days. 
Derbyshire.     William  Bakepuys  and  Ralph  de  Stathum  10/.  IQs.  for 

27  days. 
Staffordshire.     John  de  Verdon  and  John  de  Knyghteley  11/.  125. 

for  29  days. 
Somerset.     John  de  la  Mare  of  Nony  and  Walter  Bluet  11/.  125. 

for  29  days. 
Dorset.     Roger  de  Manyngford  and  Roger  Buttesthom  11/.  125. 

for  29  days. 
Devon.     Richard    Stapeldon    and    John    Ferrers    of    Chircheton 

12/.  85.  for  31  days. 
Northumberland.     Walter  de  la  Vale  and  Bertram  Monboucher 

14/.  for  35  days. 
Sussex.     John  Seyntcler  and  Robert  Marcant  8/.  85.  for  21  days. 
Cambridgeshire.     Henry  Englissh  and  John  Cheyne  9/.  45.   for 

23  days. 
Huntingdonshire.     John  Wauton  and  Ralph  Baggeleye  9/.  45.  for 

23  days. 
Essex.     Henry  de  Coggeshale  and  Thomas  Tirell  8/.  85.  for  21  days. 
Hertfordshire.     Edward  Fitz  Symond  and  William  Baude  8/.  85. 

for  21  days. 
Worcestershire.     John  atte  Wode  and  Edmund  de  Brugge  11/.  125. 

for  29  days. 
Norflfolk.     John  de  Mauteby  and  William  Cursoun  10/.  for  25  days. 
Suffolk.     John  de  Holveston  and  William  de  Russhebroke  10/.  for 

25  days. 
Warwickshire.     Fulk  de  Bermyngeham  and  John  Pecche  10/.  for 

25  days. 
Le^'^cestershire.     John  Talbot  and  Robert  Digby  10/.  for  25  days. 
Surrey.     Simon  de  Codyngton  and  Richard  Burstowe  8/.  85.  for 

21  days. 
[Prynne,  Parliamentary  Writs,  iv.  p.  297.] 

Dec.  10.         To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Lincoln.     Order  to  cause 
Westminster.  John  de  Sutton  and  Roger  Toteshale  citizens  of  Lincoln  coming  to  the 
said  parliament  to  have  of  the  commonalty  of  the  city  II65.  for  their 
expenses,  namely  25.  a  day  each  for  29  days. 


47   EDWARD  III.  613 


1373.  Membrane  Id — cont. 

The  following  have  the  like  writs  : 
Lostwithiel.     Odo  Stevyn  and  Matthew  Clemow  burgesses  6^.  4^. 

for  31  days. 
Liskird.     Richard  Code  and  William  Cysell  burgesses  61.  4c3.  for 

31  days. 
Leomunstre.    William  Salesbury  and  Thomas  Salesbury  burgesses 

116s.  for  29  days. 
Oxford.     WilUara  de  Coddeshale  and  William  Dagevyllo  burgesses 

41.  12s.  for  23  days. 
Canterbury.     Andrew  Ofwelle  and  John  Tebbe  citizens  4tl.  45.  for 

21  days. 
Wycombe.     William  atte  Dene  and  Thomas  Ballard  burgesses 

41.  12s.  for  23  days. 
Bedeford.     John  Ferour  and  William  Brasyer  burgesses  4/.  12^. 

for  23  days. 
Bristol.     Walter  Derby  and  Thomas  Beaupyne  burgesses  1085.  for 

27  days. 
[Ibid.,  p.  300.] 


(616) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


(617) 


GENEKAL  INDEX. 


Abbedeloyo.     See  Abberley. 

Abbelford,  Thomas,  biu'gess  of 
Calais,  306. 

Abberbui-y.     See  Adderbui-y. 

Abberford.     See  Aberford. 

Abberguilly.     See  Abergwili. 

Abberley,  Abbedeleyo  [co.  Woi'ces- 
ter],  manor  of,  127. 

,  Syntele  in,  127. 

Abberton,  Thomas  de,  91,  93. 

Abbirdewie.     See  Aberedw. 

Abbot,  Richard,  parson  of  Greatham, 
513. 

,  Roger,  of  London,  540. 

,  William,  of  Kelsey,  282,  426. 

Abboteston.     See  Abbotstone. 

Abbots  Eyton.     See  Eyton. 

Abbotstone,  Abboteston  [in  White- 
parish,  CO.  WUts],  Hacche- 
wode  in,  196. 

Abbridewe.     See  Aberedw. 

Abburbnry.     See  Adder  bury. 

Abel,  Edmund,  324. 

Aberdeen,  Aberdene,  Aberden  in 
Scotland,  27. 

,  burgesses  of,  27. 

,  merchants  of,  64. 

Aberedw,  Abbirdewie,  Abbridewe 
[co.  Radnor],  manor  of,  123. 

Aberford,  Abberford  [co.  York],  95. 

Abergavenny,  Bergeveny  [co.  Mon- 
mouth], castle  and  lordship  of, 
434. 

,    lord    of.      See    Hastynges, 

John  de. 

Abergwili,  Abberguilly  [co.  Carmar- 
then], collegiate  church  of  ,501. 

Abingdon,  Abyiidon,  Abyngdon  [co. 
Berks],  441,  465. 

,  Peter,  abbot  of,  87. 

,  St.  Helen's  parish,  Abyndon 

Seint  Elyn,  585,  692. 


Abingor,    co.    Surrt^y,    Paddington, 

Padyngdcno  in,  437,  443. 
Abington,  Abyndon,  co.  Northamp- 
ton, 87. 
,    Great,    Groat   Abyton,    co. 

Cambridge,    manor    of,    272, 

273. 
Abovethewell,  Alfred,  87. 
Abraham,  John,  clerk,  433,  434. 
Absolt.     See  Alice  Holt. 
Abyiidon,  Abyngdon.   See  Abingdon, 

Abington. 
Abyngdon,  Abyndon,  Richard  son  of 

William  son  of  Walter  son  of 

Reynold  de,  465. 
,    William    son    of    John    de, 

knight,  465. 
Abyton.     See  Abington. 
Acastre,  Richard  de,  of  York,  farmer 

of  subsidy,  537. 
,  Robert  de,  farmer  of  subsidy, 

172. 
Acclom,  Jolm  de,  of  Scarborough,  44 . 

,  Robert  de,  27. 

account,  pleas  of,  254,  584,  610. 
accounts,  audit  of,  386,  387. 
Aclxirche.     See  Thorpe  Achui'ch. 
Ackworth,  co.  York,  189. 
Aeon,  William  de,  sheriff  of  York- 
shire, 6. 
,  his  clerk.    See  Thorp, 

Thomas  de. 
Acresfleet,    Acresflete    [in    Wallasea 

island,  co.  Essex],  marsh  of, 

408. 
Acton,  CO.  Middlesex,  Pallingswick, 

Palyngeswiche  in,  535,  536. 
Burnell   [co.   Salop],  statute 

published  at,  481,  539. 
Acton,    Dacton,    Christiana    (Mon- 

boucher)     granddaughter     of 

Maud  de,  515,  521. 
,  Eleanor      (de      Umfraville) 

granddaughter    of    Maud  de, 

515,  521. 
,  Elizabeth  daughter  of  Maud 

de,  515,  521. 

,  Jolm  de,  468. 

,  abbot  of  Bordesley,  92. 


618 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Aoton — cont. 

Lawrence    de,     biirgess     of 

Nevvcastlo-upou-TJ^lo  in  par- 
liament, 299,  476. 

,....,    of    Northumberland, 

480. 

,  Maud   wife  of  Richard  de, 

identity  of,  515,  521. 

,  Richard,    Richard   de,    515, 

521. 
,  . .  .  . ,  burgess  of  Newcastle- 
upon-Tyne  in  parHament,  290. 

, ,  knight,  527. 

Wilham  de,  mayor  of  New- 
castle-upon-Tyne, 111. 

Adam,  John  son  of  Jolin,  55,  56,  57, 
364. 

Adderbm-y,  Abberbmy  [co.  Oxford], 
605. 

Adderbury,  Abbm'bury,  Richard, 
Ricliard  de,  561,  605. 

,  . . . . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Oxford,  611. 

Addingham,  co.  Cumberland,  Glass- 
onby,  Glassanby  in,  45. 

Addlethorpe,  Ardeltliorp  [co.  Lin- 
coln], 562. 

Aderleye,  Henry  de,  567. 

,  WiUiam  de,  95. 

Adesham  [in  Broadwindsor],  co. 
Dorset,  163. 

Adewell,  WiUiam  de,  217,  218. 

Adlingfleet,  co.  York,  Fockerby, 
Folquardeby  in,  566. 

Adloxton.     See  Allexton. 

admirals  and  subadmirals.  See 
Aston,  Robert  de  ;  Briene, 
Guy  de  ;  Courtney,  Phihp  de  ; 
Fastolf,  Hugli  ;  Ferrariis, 
Ralph  de ;  Fisshacre,  Thomas ; 
Neville,  John  de;  Neville, 
William  de ;  Tamworth, 
Nicholas  de. 

Adymot,  Robert,  119. 

Afieton.     See  Afton. 

Affpuddle,  CO.  Dorset,  Bryant's 
Puddle,  Pudele,  Pydele  Tur- 
berville  in,  179,  181,  543. 

Afton,  Afieton  [in  Freshwater],  Isle 
of  Wight,  manor  of,  280,  284, 
285. 

Agmondesham,  John  de,  549. 

Agodeshalf,  William,  196. 

AgrifoUo,  [Wilham]  de,  cardinal,  359. 

Aigle.     See  Laigle. 

Aikton,  Ayketon  [co.  Cumbei'land], 
parson  of.  See  Salkeld, 
William  de. 

,  Gamblesby,    Gamelesby  in, 

124. 


Ailward,  Hem-y,  239. 

Aire,  Ayre,  river,  co.  York,  justices 

to  observe  and  keep,  163. 
Aishman,  Robert,  83. 
Aisshfeld.     See  Asshefeld. 
Ake,  Alan  de,  clerk,  541. 
Akeld,    Akild    [in    Kirknewton,    co. 

Northumberland],   manor  of, 

448. 
Akom,  Jolin  de,  clerk,  576. 
Alan,    Thomas    son    of,    of    North 

Milford,  95. 

,  Walter  son  of,  492. 

Cf.  FitzAlan. 

Alanby,  Jolm  de,  coroner  of  Cumber- 
land, 9. 
,  Richard  de,  of  Cumberland, 

129. 
Alard,  Henry,  349. 
Albano,    cardinal    bishop    of.      See 

Perigord,  Talleyrand  de. 
Albemarle  [Amnale,  dep.  Seine  In- 

f^rieure],  honoiu*  of,  17. 

See  also  Aumale. 

Alberbury,    Alburbm'y    [co.    Salop], 

New   Abbey,    prior    of.      See 

Hatton,  Richard  de. 
Albert,  Duke,  [protector  of  HoUand], 

366. 
Alberti,  Audoyn,  cardinal  bishop  of 

Ostia  and  Velletri,  424,  425. 
Alberton,  Mary  wife  of  Thomas  de, 

122. 

,  Thomas  de,  122. 

Albo      Monasterio,      Blankmouster, 

Blankmoustier,       John       de, 

knight,  90,  91,  93,  220. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Cornwall,  611. 
,  . .  . . ,  ]Margaret  wife  of  John 

de,  90,  91,  93. 
Albon,  Nicholas,  the  king's  moneyer, 

306. 
,  Thomas,  citizen  of  London, 

335. 
Alburbury.     See  Alberbury. 
Albury,  co.  Surrey  ?  Aldeburg,  Alde- 

biu-y,  parson  of.     See  Brygh- 

ryche,  Robert. 
Alby,  Roger,  citizen  of  London,  66. 
Albyn,  William,  bailiff  of  manor  of 

Havering-atte-Bower,  64. 
Alcester,   Alyncestre,    co.   Warwick, 

fee  in,  126. 
Aldborough,     co.     York,     Branton, 

Brampton  in,  7. 

,  Dimsford,  Dimsforth  in,   7. 

Aldebandyne,  Luke,  409. 
Aldeburg.     See   Albury. 
Aldeburgh,  WiUiam  de,  knight,  334. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


(510 


Aldobiiry.     See  Albury. 

Aldocar,  Altecar,  William,  William 
de,  364,  523. 

Aldonliain,  co.  Hertford.  535,  552. 

Alderinaston,  Aldorinauston  [co. 
Berks],  181. 

Aldernoy,  Am-onoyo,  island  of, 
keeper  of.   See  Huwot,  Wal  ter. 

Aldorso.     See  Aldi'e.ss. 

Aldershavv,  Allorshawe  [in  Wall],  co. 
Stafford,  57. 

overcharge  of  i)asturo  at,  57. 

Aldorton,  co.  Suffolk,  advowson  of, 
565. 

parson    of.       See    Pieshale, 

John  do. 

Aldeston.     See  Alston. 

Aldewyke.     <See  Aldwick. 

Aldewyncle.     See  Aldwinkle. 

Aldowynke,  Robert,  of  Wykham,  428. 

Aldham,  co.  Essex,  fee  in,  492. 

,  CO.    Suffolk,    advowson    of, 

493,  494. 

,    manor  of,  272. 

Aldoun,  Thomas  de,  knight,  536. 

Aldress,  Alderse  [in  Chui'ch  Stoke, 
COS.  Salop  and  Montgomery], 
421. 

Aldresshote,  Hugh,  citizen  of  Lon- 
don, 573. 

Aldrustro,  Thomas  de,  of  Warwick- 
shire, 433. 

Aldryngton,  Henry  de,  of  Yorkshire, 
292. 

Aldwick,  Aldewyke  [in  Tring,  co. 
Hertford],  447.  448. 

Aldwinkle,  Aldewyncle,  co.  North- 
ampton, manor  of,  500. 

ale,  517. 

Aleyn,  John,  472. 

,  . .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Worcester,  289. 

,  Richard,  144. 

,  Robert,  319,  351. 

,  of  Bow,  532,  533. 

,  . .  .  .,  of  London,  327. 

Aleynesmore.     See  Allensmore. 

Alfijton.     See  Alfreton. 

Alfiatewyk.     See  Beauchamps. 

Alfons,  John,  ship-master,  of  Portu- 
gal, 270. 

Alfreton,  Alfirton,  co.  Derby,  manor 
of,  567. 

See  Alpheton. 

Alice  Holt,  Absolt  forest,  co.  Hants, 
election  of  verderers  in,  14. 

alien  friar,  517. 

merchants,  26. 

,    Irish   merchants   not 

regai'ded  as,  406. 


alien  merchants — cont. 

Hbortios  of,  27. 

,  prohibition  of   sale  of 

ships  to,  357. 

prior,  63. 

priories,  44. 

aliens,  taxation  of,    136,    143,    153, 

391. 
Alisandro,     Alisaundro,     John,      of 

Tholveton,  578. 

,  Robert,  564,  570. 

,  Thomas,     of     Dickleburgh, 

378. 
,  William,  coroner  of  Norfolk, 

135. 
Alkobarowe.     See  Aukborough. 
Alkobarowe,    Simon    de,    monk    of 

Selby,  566. 
Alkesburn.     See  Hawksbourne. 
Allensmore,  Aleynesmore,  co.  Hero- 
ford,  manor  of,  144. 
Aller,  Nicholas,  323. 
Allerberc   [near  Great   Torrington], 

CO.  Devon,  342. 
Allordalo,  co.  Cunaberland,  free  farm 

of,  31. 
Allershawo.     See  Aldershaw. 
Allerton,  John  son  of  Richard  do,  of 

York,  430. 
Alleston.     See  Alston. 
Allexton,    Adloxton,    co.    Leicester, 

manor  in,  247. 
All  Hallows,  CO.  Berks,  Rush  Court, 

la  Resshe  in,  559. 
,  All  Hallows  Halwesto  in  Hoo 

[CO.  Kent],  97. 
Almain,  325. 

merchants  of,  10,  467. 

,  seamen  of,  509. 

Almaly,  Walter,  clerk,  554. 
Almayne,  Simon  de,  citizen  of  Nor- 
wich, 222. 
almonds,  365. 
Almot,  Richard,  of  Brandon,  coroner 

of  CO.  Lincoln,  236. 
alnago,  88,  89,  133,  172,  317. 
Alnham,   co.   Northumberland,   Un- 

thank  in,  448. 
Alpheton,  Alfreton,  co.  Suffolk,  ad- 
vowson of,  344. 

,  manor  of,  471,  472. 

Alresford,  New,  co.  Hants,  70. 

,  Old,  CO.  Hants,  70. 

Alspathe.     See  Meriden. 

Alston,  Aldeston  [co.  Cumberland], 

manor  of,  256. 
,  Alleston      [in     Weare,     co. 

Somerset],  288. 
Alston,  John,  of  Kentish  Town,  285, 

291. 


620 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


altars,  413. 

Altocar.     See  Aldecar. 

Alton    [co.    Hants],    vicar    of.      See 

Maltby,  John  do. 
Barnes,  Aiilton  Bornors  [co. 

Wilts],  rector  of.    See  Blount, 

John. 
Alueton,  Geoffrey  de,  82. 
alvun,    325,    328,    365. 
Alvaston,  Alwaston,  co.  Derby,  49, 

50. 
Alvedele,  Dionisia,  wife  of  Thomas 

de,  122. 

,  Thomas  de,  122. 

,  ....  son  of  Thomas  de,  122, 

123. 
Alvely,  Alvenlogh  [in  Assington],  co. 

Suffolk,  589,  610. 
Alverton,  Alwarton  [in  Madron],  co. 

Cornwall,  manor  of,  558. 

See  Ollerton. 

Alvethele.     See  Aveley. 
Alvington,  West,  co.  Devon,  Combe- 
royal,  Coumbe  Real  in,  84. 
Alwarton.     See  Alverton. 
Alwfiston.     See  Alvaston. 
Alyncestre.     See  Alcester. 
Alyngton,    William    de,    parson    of 

Fyfield,  67. 
Ambaston,  co.  Derby,  564,  565. 
Amersham,  Amondesham,  co.  Buck- 
ingham, manor  of,  496. 
Amport,     Aunedeport,     co.     Hants, 

manor  of,  250. 
Ampthill,   CO.    Bedford,   Ridgmont, 

Rougemont  in,  505. 
Ampthull,  John,  burgess  of  Bedford 

in  parliament,  101. 
Amyas,   Walter,   Walter   de,    clerk, 

433,  434. 
,  . .  .  . ,  king's  clerk,  attorney 

general  of  the  earl  of  Pem- 
broke, 78. 
Anderby   [co.    Lincoln],    parson   of. 

See  North wode,  Wilham  de. 
Andre,  Lowis,  merchant  of  Florence, 

216. 
Andreo,  Dandreo,  Lewis,   390,  409. 
Andreue.     See  Andi-ewe. 
Andreuson,  Heyn,  ship-master,  412. 
Andrewe,  Andreue,  James,  279,  344. 
,  John,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Cambridge,  289. 

,  Richard,  355. 

,  Robert,  171. 

,  William,  263. 

Anegos.     See  Angus. 

Anesty,   Robert   de,   knight   of   the 

shire   of   Middlesex,  612. 
Anfeld,  John,  79. 


Anfeld — cont. 

Cf.  Enefold. 

Angers  [Anjou,  dop.  Maine-et-Loire], 

St.  Nicholas'  abbey,  abbot  of, 

43. 
Angerton,    Robert    de,    burgess    of 

Newcastle      upon      Tyne     in 

parliament,  290,  476. 
, mayor   of   Newcastle 

upon  Tyne,  223. 
Angoville,  Dongeville  [France,  dop. 

Manclin],  barony  of,  597. 
Angrepark.     See  Ongar  park. 
Angus,   Anegos,   earl  of.     See  Um- 

framvillc,  Gilbert  de. 
annuity,  writ  of,  432. 
AiLston,  Anstan,  co.  York,  377. 
AiLSty,  CO.  Leicester,  351. 

mill  at,  351. 

Antoigne,     Bernard,     attorney      of 

merchants  of  Genoa,  217. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  merchant  of  Florence, 

216. 

Robert,  66,  569. 

Antrechestre.  See  Tiu*n  Chester  ? 
Antwerp,  Anwers  [Belgium],  300. 
Antyngham,        Bartliolomew        de, 

kiught,  340. 
Anwers.     See  Antwerp. 
Apelderham,  Richard  de,  parson  of 

Tangmere,  76. 
Apereton.     See  Apton. 
Apethorp,  Walter,   coroner  of  Lin- 
colnshire, 9. 
Appelby.     See  Appleby. 
Appelgarth.     See  Applegarth 
Appelyard,  Bartholomew,  citizen  of 

Norwich,    222. 
Appleby,     Appelby,     co.      Lincoln, 

manor  of,  387. 
,  CO.   Westmoreland,   biirgess 

of,  in  parliament,  101,  299. 
Appleby,  Appelby,  Edmund  de,  342. 

, ,  knight,  93. 

,  John  de,  387. 

,  Margaret  wife  of  John  de, 

370,  387. 
,  Thomas  de,  bishop  of  Car- 
lisle, 252,  262,  361,  463,  464. 
Applegarth,  Appelgarth  [in  Bowes], 

CO.  York,  511. 
ap  Rees.     See  Rees. 
Apse.     See  Rapps. 
Apton,  Apereton  in  Canewdon,  co. 

Essex,  manor  of,  208." 
Apuldrefeld,  Henry  de,  586. 

,  ....  son  of  Henry  de,  585. 

,  Joan    wife    of    Henry    de, 

586. 
,  Lucy  de,  686. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


621 


Apuldrefeld — cont. 

,  TJiomas,  kniglit  of  the  shire 

of  Kent,  101,  289,  297,  316. 
Aquitaino,  15,  78,  130,  242,  252. 

invasion  of,  36. 

,  prince    of.     See    Edward. 

,  princess  of.     Sec  Joan. 

Arclior,  Koger  le,  565. 

archers,  11,    185,  384,  401,  484,  485, 

568. 

,  arrays  of,  124. 

escort  of,  for  carriage  of  gold 

and  silver,  107. 
Arches,  court  of,  432. 
Ardeley,  co.  Hertford.    See  Yardley. 
Ardeltliorp.    See  Addletliorpe. 
Arden  Hall,  Ardernehall  in  Homdon 

[-on-tlie-Hill,       co.       Essex], 

manor  of,  94. 
Ardeme,  Hardorne,  Henry  de,  330, 

442,  453,  454,  455,  549. 

.  .  .  . ,  esquire,  454. 

Hugli,  Hugh  de,  473. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  of  Yorkshire,  470. 

,  Jolm,  Jolm  de,  68,  70,  189, 

205,  332,  453. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Buckingham,  476. 

,  Robert,  480. 

,  Thomas  de,  knight,  78,  355. 

Ardernoliall.    See  Arden  Hall. 
Ardfert,  Artfert  [co.  Kerry],  Ireland, 

bisliop  of.    See  O'Tigliernach, 

Cornelius. 
Ardington,    Ardyngton,    co.    Berks, 

manor  of,  535. 
Ardres,  John  de,  392. 

,  Thomas  son  of  Jolm  do,  392. 

Ardyngton.     See  Ardington. 
Argentem,  Argentein,  Jolm,  Jolm  de, 

knight,  566,  569. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Suffolk,  290. 
Arkesden,      Arkesdene,      Arkisden, 

Arkysden,    co.    Essex,    deeds 

dated  at,  575. 
,  Wood    Hall,    Wodehall    in, 

66,  67.  575. 
Arkeseyo.     See  Arksey. 
Arkewrite,  Jolm,  332. 
Arkisden.     See  Arkesden. 
Arksey,  Ai'keseye  [co.  York],  parson 

of.     See  Shorten,  Jolm  de. 
Arkysden.     See  Arkesden. 
Arlingham,  Erlvngham,  co.  Glouces- 
ter, 53.  ' 

,  manor  of,  53. 

Armley,    Armelay    [in    Leeds,    co. 

York],  97. 
armoiar,  barrels  for  scouring,  166,  381. 


j     armottr — cont. 

'      removal  of,  from   Tower  of 

London,  584. 

Armstrong,  Roland,  of  Cmnbcrland, 
532. 

Arnald,  Thomas,  196. 

,  Walter,    chaplain,    294. 

Amew,  John,  349. 

arrays,  18,  19,  24,  26,  36,  37,  38, 
39,  42,  61,  62,  124,  125,  151, 
152,  202,  215,  228,  229,  238, 
276,  361,  362,  436,  568,  569. 

Arrow,  co.  Warwick,  Ragley,  Rag- 
gele  in,  468. 

arrow,  barbed,  rent  of,  351. 

,  purveyance  of,  41,57,208,292. 

Artfert.     See  Ardfert. 

Arthyngton,  Robert  de,  477. 

artillery,  301. 

Arturet,  Dartret,  Mary  wife  of 
William,   118. 

,  William,  verderer  of  Ingle- 
wood  forest,  363. 

Arundel,  Arundell,  co.  Sussex,  bur- 
gess of,  in  parliament,  297. 

,    earl    of.     See    Fitz   Alan, 

Richard. 

Arimdel,  Arundell,  Darundel,  Darun- 
dell,  Jolm  de,  441. 

,  knight,  446. 

,  Richard,  555,  556,  558. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight,  son  of  the  earl 

of  Arimdel,  448. 

Asby  Winderwath,  Askeby  Wjiian- 
derwath  [in  Asby],  co.  West- 
moreland, manor  of,  224. 

Ascot,  Ascote,  Escote,  [in  Great 
Milton],  CO.  Oxford,  145. 

,  . .  .  . ,  manor  of,  145,  157. 

Ascum.     See  Askliam. 

Asger,  William,  citizen  of  Norwich, 
222. 

Ash,  CO.  Kent,  Overland,  Overlond 
in,  52. 

,  Asshe  [in  Louth,  co.  Louth], 

manor  of,  164. 

,  near   Sandwich   [co.    Kent], 

Fleet,  Flete  in,  271. 

Ashburnham,  Asshboiu-nhamme  [co. 
Sussex],  deeds  dated  at,  293, 
295,  296. 

,  manor  of,  296. 

,  Ivitcliingham,  Kechon- 

hamme  in,  296. 

Ashby,  Askeby,  co.  Lincoln,  379. 

,  Canons,     Assheby     in     the 

Wodende  [co.  Northampton], 
prior  and  convent  of,  208. 

,  . .  . . ,  vicar  of.     See  Barfot, 

William. 


622 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Ashby — cont. 

,  Castle,  Assheby  David  [co. 

Northampton],  advovvson  of, 

66. 

,  . .  .  . ,  deed  dated  at,  66. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  66. 

,  Folvillo       [co.      Leicester], 

Barsby,  Barnesby  in,  274. 
Asho,   Asslie,   co.   Hants,    195,    196, 

198,  200. 

,  advowson  of,  195,  196,  200. 

.......  deed  dated  at,  196. 

,  manor  of,  195,  196,  198,  199, 

200. 
Ashfield,  Asshofeld,  Great  [co.  Suf- 
folk], 576,  582. 

,  . .  . .,  manor  of,  576,  582. 

,  Little    Tin    Great    Ashfield, 

CO.  Suffolk],  576,  582. 
Ashill,  Ashle,  co.  Norfolk,  manor  of, 

434. 

,  Aysshulle,  co.  Somerset,  537. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  Stowloy,  Steuelegh  in, 

163. 
Ashorne,     Asshorne     [in     Newbold 

Pacy],    CO.    Warwick,    manor 

of,  108,  443,  454. 
Ashover,    co.    Derby,    Parkliall    in 

Morton  in,  509. 
Ashstead,     Asshstedo,     co.     Sui'rey, 

manor  of,  108,  454. 
Ashton,  Asshen  [co.  Northampton], 

551. 
-under-Lyne,     Assheton,     co. 

Lancaster,  advowson  of,  160. 
Asingham.     See  Hasingham. 
Askarne.     See  Askern. 
Aske,  John  de,  580. 
Askeaton,  Inskysty  [co.  Limerick], 

manor  of,  231. 
Askeby.     See  Asby,  Asliby. 
Askeby,  Walter  de,  of  Lincolnshire, 

165. 
,  William  de,   archdeacon  of 

Northampton,  81. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  chancellor  of  the 

exchequer,  94. 

Cf.  Assheby. 

Askern,  Askarne   [co.  York],  579. 
Askham,  Ascum  [co.  Westmoreland], 

manor  of,  473. 
Aslegh,  John,  34. 
Aspale,  Elizabeth  wife  of  John  de, 

knight,  294,  318,  450,  451. 

,  John  de,  318. 

Aspatria,  Aspatrik,  co.  Cumberland, 

manor  of,  31. 
Aspeden.     See  Aspenden. 
Aspele.     See  Aspley. 
Aspele,  Richard,  of  London,  578. 


Asponden,    Aspeden,    co.  Hertford, 

502. 
Aspley,  Asjjelo    [in   Tanworth],    co. 

Warwick,  manor  of,  374. 
Assay  of  coins,  303,  304. 
Asselyne.     See  Asshelyn. 
Assh.    See  Campsey  Ash. 
Asshbournliame.      See     Asshoburn- 

hain. 
Asshbournhamme.       See    Ashburn- 

ham. 
Asshe.    See  Ash,  Ashe. 
Asshe,  Thomas,  burgess  of  Drogheda, 

246. 
Assheboxirne,  William  de,  of  London, 

felmonger,  325,  328. 
Assheburnham,         Asshbournhame, 

Asshebournhamme,  Joan  wife 

of  John,  296. 

John,  296. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Sussex,  419. 

,  Roger,  Roger  de,  293,  295, 

335,  593. 
Assheby.     See  Ashby. 
Assheby,  John  de,  130,  189. 

Cf.  Askeby. 

Asshefeld.     See  Ashfield. 
Asshefeld,  Aisshfeld,  Robert,  Robert 

de,  171,  535,  547. 
Assheford,  William,  309. 
Asshehurst,  John,  John  de,  154,  194. 

,  Richard,  452,  453. 

Asshelden,  Jolm,  51. 
Asshele,  William  de,  48. 
Asshelyn,  AsseljTie,  Henry,  286. 

,  Ralph,  89. 

Asshen.     See  Ashton. 

Assheton.     See  Ashton-imder-Ljmo, 

Aston. 
Asshfeld.     See  Ashfield. 
Asshle.     See  Ashill. 
Asshorne.     See  Ashorne.' 
Asshstede.     See  Ashstead. 
Asshton.     See  Aston. 
Assington,  co.  Suffolk,  Alvely,  Alven- 

legh  in,  589,  610. 
Assisi  [Italy],  422. 
assize,  the  gi'eat,  468. 
assizes    of    novel     disseisin.         See 

novel  disseisin. 
Asteleye,   Elizabeth   (de  Harecourt) 

wife  of  Thomas  son  of  Thomas 

de,  60. 

,  Thomas  de,  knight,  84. 

Astell,  John,  burgess  of  Dunwich  in 

parliament,  299. 
Asterleigh,  Asterle,  co.  Oxford,  ad- 
vowson of,  382. 

,  manor  of,  381. 

Asthorp,  Thomas  de,  of  Sturton,  388. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


623 


Aston,  CO.  Montgomery,  421. 

Clinton,     co.     Buckingliam, 

106. 

,  North,  Nortliaston,  co.  Ox- 
ford, bailiff  of.  See  Leusson, 
John. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  452,  559. 

Aston,  Asshcton,  Asshton,  Joan  wife 
of  Thomas  de,  342. 

,  Matthew  de,  person  of  Shit- 

lington,  453. 

,  Kobert  de,  justiciary  of  Ire- 
land, 380,  399,  487,  495. 

, ,  knight,  70. 

of  Gloucester- 
shire, 317. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the  king's  admiral,  27, 

30. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  from  the  mouth 

of  the  Thames  westward,  32, 
52,  53,  58,  270,  357. 

,  Thomas,  Thomas  de,  342. 

,   .....  collector  of  subsidy  in 

Devonshire,  224. 

Astwyk,  Agnes  (de  Drayton)  daugh- 
ter of  John,  the  yoimger,  of 
Great  Easton,  74. 

John,  John  do,  427. 

,  bailiff  of  Gartree  hun- 
dred, 174. 

,  . . . . ,  the  elder,  74. 

,  Roger  de,  573. 

Asty,  Hanstv,  Hasty,  Henry,  196, 
306,  3U. 

,  John,  324. 

Aswell,  Eustace  de,  coroner  of  Lin- 
colnsliire,  8. 

Atherton,  William  de,  knight  of  the 
shire  of  Lancaster,  611. 

Atliol,  Athole.  earl  of.  See  Strabolgi, 
David  de. 

AthoU,  Aymer  de.  knight,  295. 

Aton,  William  do,  Icniglit,  103. 

Atte.  See  Barre,  Bergh,  Boure, 
Brigge,  Broke,  Bussh,  Castel, 
Celer,  Chirch,  Cotene,  Crosse, 
Dene,  Felde,  Fen,  Forde,  Gar- 
stone,  Gate,  Gloryo,  Grene, 
Grevette,  Grove,  Hacche, 
Hale,  Halle,  Hclle,  Hide, 
Hille,  Hole,  Hoo,  Hulle, 
Hurne,  Lane,  Lee,  Legh, 
Lese,  Lude,  Lynk,  Marc  he, 
Mede.  More,  Mote,  Mounte, 
Nascli,  Novertoim,  Ook, 
Parke,  Persoimes,  Porche, 
Putte,  Rede,  Righte,  Rithe, 
Rude,  Rud^Tig,  Seathe, 
Sole,  Stile,  Stone,  Sutton, 
Tabbard,      Thorne,      Vanne, 


Atte — cont. 

Vyno,  Wallo,  Water,   Welde, 

Welle,  Wore,  Wodo,  Wodefal, 

Wyke,  Wpie,  Wyuoyard,  Ya, 

Yato,  Yorde. 
Atteford,  Thomas,  601. 

Cf.  Forde. 

Atworth     Parva,     Attdworth,      co. 

Wilts,  17. 

,  manor  of,  17. 

Aubrey,  Aubray,  Andrew,  mayor  of, 

and  escheator  in  London,  526. 

Jolm,  441. 

,    citizen    of    London, 

389. 
,  .  .  .  .,  merchant  of  London, 

245,  456. 
Aucher,  Elizabeth,  452. 
Audele.     See  Audley. 
Audele,Audelegh,Audeleye,  Daudole, 

James,  James  de,  522. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  lord  of  Audley,  158. 

.  . , ,  of  Heighley,  267,  268. 

,  Nicholas  de,  242,  243,  293. 

, ,  knight,  325,  326. 

,  ....  son  of  James  de,  lord 

of  Audley,  158. 
audit  of  accounts,  386,  387. 
Audley,  Audele  [co.  Stafford],  lord  of. 

See  Audele,  James  de. 
Augnet,  Agnes,  103. 
Aukborough,   Alkebarowe   [co.   Lin- 
coln], 566. 
Aukes,  Robert,  parson  of  Edmond- 

thorpe,  73. 
Aulton,  Agnes  wife  of  Jolm,  366,  367. 

,  John,  366,  367. 

Aulton  Berners.      See  Alton  Barnes. 
Aumalo     [France,    dep.    Seine-Inf6- 

rieure],  abbot  of,  44. 

See  Albemarle. 

Aumbesas,  Joan  wife  of  William,  427. 

,  William,  knight,  427. 

Auncel,  Aimcell.     See  Aunsel. 
Aunedeport.     See  Amport. 
Aunger,  Aungi-e,  John  de,  of  London, 

535. 

Michael,  600,  602. 

Aungers,  Peter,  of  Cambridgeshire, 

585. 
Aungre.    See  Aunger. 
Aunsel,    Aimcel,    Auncell,    Aunsell, 

William,  548. 
,  .  .  .  . ,    escheator    in    Berks, 

358,  370,  373. 
,....,    ....    in     Gloucester- 
shire, 47,  53,  56,  57,  123,  129, 

131,  253,  391,  392. 
,....,....    in     Hampshire, 

366. 


624 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Aunsel,  William,  escheator — cont. 
, in  Horefordsliire, 

29,  41,  49,   r)I,   56,   123.   125, 

129,  136,   142,   144,   151,   161, 

162,  214,  282,  360. 
,  .  .  . . ,    ....  in    Oxf ordsliire, 

363,  373,  381. 
,    ....  in  tlie    marches 

of  Wales,  29,  41,  49,  51,  56, 

123,  144,  151,  161,  162,  282. 
,....,     ....     in     Wiltshire, 

358,  373,  408. 
Auroa,  Anthony  de,  ship  m«ister  of 

Genoa,  230,  233. 
Aureneye.     See  Alderney. 
Austeborne.     See  Osborne. 
Austyn,  Roger,  of  Olney,  butclier, 

679. 

Thomas,  82. 

Cf.  Oustyn. 

Auvers,     Daimvers     [France,     dep. 

Manche],  barony  of,  597. 
Auxiholra,  Henry  de,  clerk  to  take 

recognisances     for     debt     in 

York,  539. 
Aveley,  Alvethele  [co.  Essex],  87. 
Avenel,  John,  knight,  449,  587. 
Avignon    [France,    dep.    Vaucluse], 

docmnent  dated  at,  425. 

,  papal  palace  at,  424. 

Axay.     See  Haxey. 

Axford,  Axeford  [in  Ramsbiiry],  co. 

Wilts,  deed  dated  at,  309. 
Axliolme,     Axiholm,     co.     Lincoln, 

Mowbray  of,    149,    155,    219, 

238,  253,  261. 
Aykoton.     See  Aikton. 
Aylesbury,    co.    Buckingham,    453, 

544. 

,  deed  dated  at,  453. 

,  hospital    of    St.    Jolm,    ad- 

vowson  of,  453. 
Aylesbury,  Jolm  de,  593. 
,  . .  .  . ,    coroner   of   Bucking- 
hamshire, 44. 

, ,  knight,  77. 

Aylesliam,     John     de,     coroner     of 

Cambridgeshire,  236. 
Aylmerestorp.     See  Elmsthorpe. 
Aynecroft,    John    de,    merchant    of 

Aberdeen,  64. 
Aynell,  John,  192. 
Ayot  St.  Lawrence,  Ayote  Laurence 

[CO.  Hertford],  596. 
,  parson     of.       See    Wynch- 

combe,  John. 
Ayothe's    tenement    in    Woodham 

Ferrers,  co.  Essex,  356. 
Ayre.     See  Aire. 
Ayremynne,  John  de,  clerk,  306. 


Aysgarth,  co.  York,  Thoralby,  Thor- 

waldby  in,  239. 
Aysshulle.  See  Ashill. 
Aywodo.    See  Hayvvode. 


B 


Baa,  Nicholas  de,  478. 

,  .  .  . . ,  bailiff  of  Canterbury, 

479. 
,  Thomas  de,   knight   of   the 

shire  of  Northampton,  611. 
Baas,  Robert,  fuller,  611. 
Babbegrave.     See  Baggrave. 
Babeworthpound  in  Isleworth    [co 

Middlesex],  repair  of,  64. 
Babingley,    Babyngle,    co.    Norfolk, 

Boteler  of,  359. 
,  Butler's  Cross,  le  Botillers  in, 

359. 
Bache,  Francis,  292. 
,  Manuel,   seamen  of  Genoa, 

508. 
,  Thomas,  king's  clerk,  parson 

of  Kilberry,  249,  250. 
Bacheler,  Walter,  of  Bythorn,  348. 
Backwell,    Bakwell    [co.    Somerset], 

John  parson  of,  288. 
Bacon,     Bacoun,    Niclaolas    son    of 

Robert,  378. 

,  Robert,  488. 

, knight,  550. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  loiight  of  the  shire  of 

Suffolk,  101. 

, ,  of  Dickleburgh,  378. 

,    sheriff    of    Norfolk, 

418. 

,  Roger,  of  Norfolk,  457. 

,   .'...,  of  Northamptonshire, 

60S. 

,  William,  349. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  btu-gess  of  Southamp- 
ton in  parliament,  297. 
bacon  pigs,  152. 
Bacoim.     See  Bacon. 
Badcokkesland   in   Crowmarsh   Gif- 

ford,  561. 
Baddow,  Badewe,  Great,  co.  Essex, 

manor  of,  496. 
Baddyng,    Robert,    of    Winchilsea, 

baron   of   the    Cinque    Ports, 

299. 
Badele.     See  Badley. 
Badewe,     See  Baddow. 
Badewe,  Bradewe,  Hugh  de,  loiight, 

89,  99. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


025 


Badgworth,  Baggeworth,  co.  Somer- 
set, 288. 

,  Trtrnock,  Tornok  in,  288. 

Badley  Poiuid  Farm,  Bad<;le  noai' 
Ci'ondal  [in  Ci'ondal,  co. 
Hants],  110. 

Badlinghain,  Bacllyngham,  co.  Cam- 
bridge. 4.58,  459. 

Bagot.     See  Bagot. 

Baggoleye,  Raljih,  kniglit  of  tlie 
shire  of  Huntingdon,  012. 

Baggewortli.     See  Badgworth. 

Baggi'avo,  Babbegravo  [in  Himgor- 
ton],  CO.  Leicester,  foe  in,  274. 

Bagingdone,  John  son  of  RicJiard  de, 
85. 

Bagley  Green,  Bagle  [in  Tickhill,  co. 
York],  377. 

Bagot,  Baget,  John,  .343,  472. 

,  Thomas,  472. 

BaiHff,  Baihf,  BayHif,  Tliomas,  far- 
mer of  manor  of  Dodford,  145. 

,  Walter,  of  Chalfont,  514. 

,  William,  352. 

Baillav,  William,  519. 

Bailloiu-,  John,  190. 

Bailey,  Jolm,  of  Grendon,  66. 

Bainton,  Baynton  [co.  Northamp- 
ton], parson  of.  See  Botheby, 
John  de. 

Baiocis,  Katherine  wife  of  Richard 
de,  knight,  575,  577. 

,  IVIaud  daughter  of  Robert  de, 

knight,  575. 

,  Richard  de,  knight,  66,  575. 

,   ....    son  of  Richard  de,  67. 

Robert  de,  knight,  67. 

,  ....      son    of    Robert    de, 

knight,  575,  577. 

,  William  de,  clerk,  67. 

Bakepuys,  William,  knight  of  the 
shire  of  Derby,  612. 

Baker,  Clavs  le,  bm-gess  of  Ypres, 
152."^ 

,  John,  71,  429. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  Jonosservant  of  Cliel- 

tenham,  413. 

, ,  of  Stanstead,  82. 

,  Nicholas,  186,  442. 

,   .  .  .  .,  of  Peckliam,  81. 

,  Robert,  89. 

,  Thomas,       alias       William 

Rameseye  alias  Jolm  Robyn, 
499. 

,  shipmaster,  467. 

,  William,  352. 

Bakester.  John,  of  Old  Sleaford,  534. 

,  Thurstan  le,  of  AVigan,  453. 

Bakowell,  co.  Derby,  509. 

Bakwell.    See  Backwell, 


Bakwollo,  John,  84,  85. 

balances,  121,  120,  214,  305,  399. 

Baldowvno,  Baudewyn,  John,  of 
Barton,  592. 

William,  saddler,  317,   318. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  .....  of  London,  574, 

598. 

Baldock,  Baldok  [co.  Htortford],  427, 
588. 

Baldon,  Baldyndon  [co.  Oxford], 
deed  dated  at,  72. 

Baldoylo,  Balidoillo,  Balidoulo,  Baly- 
doillo  [co.  Dublin],  parliament 
at,  246,  257,  266,  529. 

Baldyndon.  See  Baldon,  Baldyng- 
don. 

Baldyngdon,  Baldyndon,  Baldyng- 
ton,  John,  John  de,  276,  336, 
343,  4.50,  555,  .556. 

Balglany,  David  de,  484. 

Balidoile,  Balidoule.     See  Baldoyle. 

Baliogary.     See  Garristown. 

Balking,  Bathelkjmg  [in  Uffington], 
CO.  Berks,  manor  of,  557,  581. 

Ballard,  Thomas,  350. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  bm'gess  of  High  Wy- 
combe in  parliament,  613. 

Balle,  John,  352. 

,  Richard,  356. 

Balsham  [co.  Cambridge],  85. 

Balton,  William  de,  201. 

Balydoille.     See  Baldoyle. 

Bamburgli,  Baumburgh  [co.  North- 
umberland], bailiffs  of,  482. 

,  castle  of,  529. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ward  of,  420. 

,  farm  of,  420. 

,  manor  of,  529. 

,  Newham    and     Outchester, 

Ulcestre  in,  448. 

Bampton,  co.  Devon,  Shillingford, 
ShU];^'ngford,  Thillyngforde 
in,  339,  523. 

Bampton,  John,  John  de,  89,  99, 
138,  496,  .508,  602. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  tlie  sliire  of 

Essex,  476. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  sheriff  of  Essex,  551. 

Banandesdale.     See  Bannisdale. 

Banastre,  Thomas,  knight,  355,  430. 

,  William,  of  Yorton,  escheator 

in  Salop,  14.  15.  62.  63,  122, 
129,  137,  143,  160,  208,  214, 
232,  251,  282,  355,  415. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Stafford- 
shire, 232,  355. 

Bandon,  Hugh  de.  rector  of  Barnham 
Broom,  333. 

Bangor  [co.  Carnarvon],  diocese  of, 
taxation  of,  261. 

CB  40 


626 


GENERAIi    INDEX. 


Barber 


Barde, 

Barden 

Bardes 


Baagor — cont. 

,  guardian  of  spiritualities  of 

bisliopric  of,  204,  261. 
Bangore,  Jolin,  of  London,  323. 
Banham    [co.    Norfolk],    parson    of. 

See   Clervaux,  John. 
Bank,  William  del,  of  Ci'aike,   159, 

255. 
Bannebury,  Jolm  de,  parson  of  Kils- 

by,  324. 
banners  and  pennon-s,  301. 
Bannisdale,  Banandosdale,  co.  West- 
moreland, pasture  in,   162. 
Banstead,    Banstodo    [co.     Surrey], 
manor  of,  520. 

keeper  of,  520. 

. .  .  . ,  warren  of,  520. 
Barbour,  Adam,  571. 
Alice  wife  of  William,  106. 
John,  of  Colnbrook,  571. 

of  Shoroham,  328. 

.  .  .  . ,  taverner,  585. 
Robert,    of    East    Claydon, 
544. 
Thomas,  480. 
William,  50,  106. 
Walter,  100. 
John,  475. 
Peter     de,     merchant     of 
Florence,  450. 
Walter  de,  55. 
. .  . . ,  master  of  the  mint  in 
the  Tower  of  London,  1. 
.  .,  merchant,  38. 
.  . ,    ....    of     Lombardy, 
121. 
Bardestaple.     See  Barnstaple. 
Bardfield,     Berdefeld,     Little     [co. 
Essex],  Adam  parson  of,  577. 
Bardolf,  Bardulf,  John,  334,  390,  487. 
,  . .  . . ,  coroner  of  co.  War- 
wick, 363,  413. 

,  .  .  . . ,    lord    of    Wormegay, 

664,  565. 

Thomas,  340. 

,  William  de,  377,  378. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  lord  of  Wormegay,  570. 

,  .  .  . . ,  of  Wormegay,  253. 

, ,  knight,  432. 

, ,  son  of  John,  390,  487, 

564. 
Barenton,  Jolm,  John  de,  of  Hatfield 
Regis,  600,  601,  602. 

, ,  of  Writtle,  601. 

Cf.  Bameton. 

Barentyn,  Thomas,  Thomas  de,  343, 

450,  555,  556,  562. 
Baret,  Barret,  Jolm,  of  Dickleburgh, 

378. 
,  Richard,  608. 


Baret,  Richard — cont. 

,  .....  farmer  of  subsidy,  90, 

424. 
Robert,  bailiff  of  Worcester, 

268. 
Thomas,  bishop  of  Elpliin, 

411,  469. 
,....,     archbishop    of 

Connaught,  423. 

William,  456. 

,  . .  . . ,  merchant  of  London, 

545,  546. 
Barford,  Berford  [co.  Norfolk],  597. 
,  Bereford,       co.       Warwick, 

manor  of,  126,  127. 
St.     Martin,     Bereford     St. 

Martin,  co.  Wilts,  manor  of, 

578,  593. 
Barfot,    William,    vicar    of    Canons 

Ashby,  208. 
Baringbroke,  John,  knight,  110. 
Barkby,  Barkeby,  co.  Leicester,  fee 

in,  273. 
Barker,  Robert,  424. 
Barkeston.     See  Barkstone. 
Barking,  Berkynge  [co.  Essex],  291. 
Barkstone,  Barkeston,  co.  Leicester, 

397. 
Barkway,    Berkway,    co.    Hertford, 

444. 

,  deed  dated  at,  444. 

,  Newsells,  Neusell,  Newsell  in, 

444,  560. 
Barle,  Eleanor  (Basset)  wife  of  John, 

524. 

,  Jolm,  524. 

Barleston,   Berleston,  co.  Leicester, 

fee  in,  274. 
Barley,  Birlee  [co.  Hertford],  rector 

of.      See    ChamberlajTi,    Ed- 
ward, 
barley,  27,  46,  257,  380. 

,  rent  of,  550. 

Barling,  Barlyng,  co.  Essex,  marsh 

in,  494. 
Barlings,     Barlynges,     co.     Lincoln, 

abbot  of,  248,  249. 
Barlyng.     See  Barling. 
Barlynges.     See  Barlings. 
Barmoor,  Bayrmore  [in  Lowick,  co. 

Northumberland],  fee  in,  448. 
Barnacle,  Bernangle  [in  Bulkington 

and    Shilton],    co.    Warwick, 

146. 
Barnard  Castle,  Bernard's  Castle  [in 

Gainford,  co.  Durham],   127. 
Barnby,   Barneby  by  Mulgreve  [in 

Lythe],  co.  York,  16,  17. 
Barneburgh,  John  de,  596. 
Barneby.     See  Barnby. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


627 


Barneby,    Tliomas    do,     parson     of 

Kirkhoaton,  97,  98, 
Barnosby.     See  Barsby. 
Barnehtaple.     See  Barnstaple. 
Barnet,  Jolin,  bishop  of  Ely,  3,  75, 

251,  503. 
Barneton,  John  de.  parson  of  Little 

Sholford,  412. 

Cf.  Barenton. 

Barnham    Broom,    Bemeham    [co. 

Norfolk],  rector  of.    See  Ban- 
don,  Hugh  do. 
Bamstaplo,      I3ardostaplo,      Bame- 

staplo,  Barstaplo,  co.  Devon, 

bailiffs  of,  264,  347. 

,  biu'gess  of  ,in  parliament,  298. 

,  keepers  of  passage  in  port  of, 

449. 
,  prior  of  St.  Mary  Magdalen. 

523. 
Barnston,  Berneston  in  Langar,  co. 

Nottingham,  397. 
Barnun,  Robert,  83. 
Baroim,  John,  349. 

,  Katherine,   492. 

,  William,    coroner   of    Berk- 

sliire,   510. 
Barowe.    See  Barrow. 
Barowehaven.     See  BajTowhaven. 
Barre.     See  Perry  Barr. 
Barre,  Hildobrand,  309. 
Joan  wife  of  Peter  atto,  366, 

367. 

,  John  atte,  338,  427. 

Peter  atte,  366,  367. 

,  Richard    de    la,    canon    of 

Hereford,  318,  319. 
Barret.     See  Baret. 
Barrington,  Berton  [co.  Cambridge], 

255. 
Barrow,  Barowe,  Barugh,  Barwe,  co. 

Suffolk,  advowson  of,  73,  446, 

468. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  73,  446. 

on  Humber,  Barowe,  co.  Lin- 
coln, ferry  at,  241,  242. 
Barrowbv,  co.  Lincoln,  Neubo  abbey 

in,  69,  441,  549. 
Barrowden,  Berughton,  co.  Rutland, 

manor  of,  127. 
Barrow  Hall  [in  Eastwood]  ?  Berug- 

hos,  CO.  Essex,  fee  in,  128. 
Barrowhaven,       Barowehaven       [in 

Barrow   upon    Hiunber],    co. 

Lincoln,  ferrv  at,  242. 
Barry,  David,  knight,  386,  387. 
John,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Kent,  289. 
Barsby,    Bamesby   [in   Ashby   Fol- 

ville],  CO.  Leicester,  fee  in,  274, 


Barsham,  co.  Suffolk,  565. 

,    North,    Northbarsham,   co. 

Norfolk,  advowson  of,  431. 

,   .  .  .  .,  manor  of,  119,  431. 

Barstaplo.     See  Barnstaple. 
Bartaillo,  Thomas  do,   141. 

Cf.  Bataille. 

Bartolesdon.     See  Basildon. 
Bartelot,  William,  chaplain,  545. 
Barton,  Berton,  co.  Cambridge,  604. 
Bondish,    Berton    Byndych, 

CO.  Norfolk,  manor  of,  560. 
on  Humber,  upon  Humbre, 

CO.  Lincoln,  13,  591,  592. 

,  baihffs  of,  115,  482. 

,  ferry  at,  242. 

,  lords  of,  242. 

,  mayor  of,  115. 

Seagrave,    Barton    Hanred, 

CO.  Northampton,  manor  of, 

374. 
Stacey,    Berton    Sacy,    co. 

Hants,  assignment  of  dower 

at,  309-313. 

,  church  of,  310. 

,  deeds  dated  at,    179, 

543,  544. 

,  fishery  at,  311. 

,  hundred  of,  311. 

, ,  baihff  of,  312. 

,   manor    of,     179,    181, 

543,  593. 

mill  at,  311. 

,  places  named  in,  309- 

311. 
Barton,  Godfrey,  of  London,  cord- 

wainer,  591. 
,  Henry    de,     canon    of     St, 

Peter,  York,  92. 

,  .....  clerk,  459. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  steward  of  the  arch- 
bishop of  York,  256. 

,  Jolin  de,  532. 

,  . . . . ,    son    of    Robert    de, 

otherwise     Chamberleyn,     of 

Kent,  100,  110. 

,  Jordan  de,  109, 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  London,  583. 

,  Oliver  de,  571. 

,  Peter  de,  clerk,  472. 

,     Richard     de,     burgess     of 

Ivingston  upon  Hull  in  parlia- 
ment, 477, 
,..,..,  . , . , ,  king's  clerk,  501. 

,  William  de,  76, 

, ,  clerk,  423. 

Barugh,  Barwe,     See  Barrow. 
Barwe,  Thomas,  clerk,  597, 
Basildon,  Bastclden,  co,  Berks,  318. 
,  . , . . ,  deed  dated  at,  429, 


628 


GENERAL    ES^DEX. 


Basildon — cont. 

Bartolosdeii    [in    Laindon], 

CO.  Essex,  fee  in,  492. 
Basingtliorpo,    Tliorpe    by   Wostby, 

CO.  Lincoln,  92. 
basins,  579. 
Baskurville,  Elizabeth  wife  of  Walter 

214. 

,  John  son  of  Walter,  214. 

Basset.   Bassett,   Alice  daughter  of 

Ralpli,  458, 
.......  .  .  .  .,  wife  of  Ralph,  458. 

,  Eleanor     (Barle)    sister    of 

John,  524. 
,  Elizabeth  dauglitor  of  Ralph, 

458. 
,  Joan    (Door),    daughter    of 

John  son  of  Alice,  50. 

,  John,  14,  573. 

, ,  of  Clushall,  573. 

,  . .  . . ,  of  Rushton,  524. 

LawTence,  593. 

,  Peter,  351. 

,  Ralph,  151,  288,  370. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the  lands 

of  John  Mowbray  of  Axholme, 

149,  238. 

,....,  of  Draj-ton,  knight, 458. 

,  .....   . .  .  . ,   . .  .  . ,  keeper  of 

Melton  Mowbray,  155. 

,  of  Sapcote,  108,  274. 

, ,....,  knight,  458,  468, 

486. 

, of  Weldon,  knight,  547. 

.......  Robert,  338. 

,  . .  . . ,  coroner  of  Hereford- 
shire, 16. 
Bassyngboiu'ne,  BassjTigborne,  Bas- 

syngburne,  INIargaret  wife  of 

Robert  de,  98. 
,  Richard  de,  son  of  John  de, 

of  Badlingham,  458,  459. 

,  Robert  de,  98. 

,  Thomas  de,  knight,  604. 

,  .....  . . .  . ,  sheriff  of  Essex 

and  Hertfordshire,  348. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  loiight  of  the  shire  of 

Hertfordshire,  476. 
Bastelden.     See  Basildon. 
Bastwyk,  John  de,  citizen  of  Nor- 
wich, 222. 
Basy,  Richard,  98. 
Basj-ngs,  John,  knight,  589,  610. 
Bataille,  Bataile,  John,  66,  569,  575. 
,   .  .  .  . ,    escheator    in    Essex, 

272,  273,  274,  372,  376,  402, 

407,  418,  486. 
,  .  .  . . ,  ....  in  Hertfordshire, 

272,  273,  373,  376. 
,  of  Manewden,  98. 


Bataille — cont. 

,  Richard  do  la,  649. 

Bate,  Thomas,  of  Biddenham,  515. 
Batelav.     See  BatJicle. 
Batelosforde,  William  de,  593. 
Batenian,  William,  560,  587,  604. 
,   ....  do,  bisliop  of  Norwich, 

383. 
Bath  [co.   Somerset],  citizen  of,   in 

parhanient,  298. 
Batli    and    Wells,    bishop    of.      See 

Harewell,  Jolui  de ;    Slirews- 

bvu-y,  Ralph  de. 

diocese  of,  252. 

Bathe,  John,  burgess  of  Bristol  in 

parliament,  298. 
,   merchant    of    Bristol, 

30. 
Bathele,  Bate] ay,  Bathelay,   Bathe- 
ley,  Richard  de,  604. 

Robert  de,  of  Norfolk,  430. 

,  WiUiam  de,  459,  460, 

,   ....  son  of  Robert  de,  147. 

Batholkyng.     See  Balking. 

Battle  abbey  [co.  Sussex],  abbot  and 

convent  of,  544. 
,  maintenance  called  the  '  kyn- 

gesi:)ot'  in,  544. 
Bau,  Richard,  of  Dicldeburgh,  378. 
Baucombe,  John,  560. 
Baude,  Jolm,  of  Dartford,  clerk,  80. 

,  Nicholas,   of  Staimdon,   80, 

,  William,  loiight  of  the  shire 

of  Hertford,  612. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  knight,  tlie  younger, 

389,  415. 
Baudewyn.     See  Baldewyne. 
Bauch'ee,  Jolm,  591. 
Baudrip.    See  Bawdrip. 
Bauch'ip,  John,  367. 
Baumbm'gh.     See  Bamburgh, 
Baumford,  Adam,  of  Ospringe,  235. 

,  Amice  wife  of  Adam,  235. 

Baunsile,  Baimsild,  Joan  (de  Merton) 

wife  of  John,  522,  523. 

,  Jolm,  522,  523. 

Bautersfm,    Boteresham   [Brabant], 

lord  of,  579. 
Bavent,   Cicely  daughter   of   Peter, 

126. 
,  Eleanor  daugliter  of  Peter, 

126. 
,  Hawise  wife  of  Roger,  421, 

422. 

,  ....  wife  of  Roger  de,  the 

yqiuiger,  518. 
,  Joan  (Daimtesej^e),  daughter 

of  Roger  de,  tlie  elder,  518. 

,  John  son  of  Roger,  421,  422. 

,  Katherine  wife  of  Peter,  51. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


629 


Bavent — cont. 

,  Potor,  of  Bilsby,  126. 

,  Uogor,  Kogor  do,  kiiight,  55, 

421. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  arms  of,  422. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  tJie  elder,  518. 

,  tho  yoimger,  518. 

Bawdrip,     Baucb'ii),    co.     Somoi'set, 

manor  of,  307. 
Bayard,  William,  coroner  of  Lincoln- 

sliiro,  7. 
Bayo,  la.     See  Bourgniuf. 
Bayliff.     -See  BaililT. 
Baj-nton.    See  Bainton. 
Bayonno,  Bayon  [France],  merchants 

of,  153. 

,  ships  of,  153,  368. 

Bayoxise,  Robert,  knight  of  tlie  shire 

of  Huntingdon,  101. 
Bayi'moro.     See  Barmoor. 
Bays,  John,  69,  312,  423,  473,  593. 

,  of  Somerset,  591. 

,  of  Yeovil,  288. 

Robert,  593. 

Beachhampton,  Bcchehampton  [co. 

Buckingham],  75. 
beacons,  bekynes,  436. 
Beaksbom-ne,  Bekosboiu-ne,  co.  Kent, 

manor  of,  24. 
Bealfow.     See  Beaufey. 
Bealknap.     See  Beleknappe. 
beans,  33,  257,  380,  388. 
Beaucliamp.     See  Bello  Campo. 
Beauchamp  Roothing.  See  Roothing. 
Beauchamps    alias    Alflatewyk    [in 

Wyddial,  co.  Hertford],  444. 
Beauchamnp.    <See  Bello  Campo. 
Beauderer,  Tliomas,  193. 
Beaufey,  Bealfow,  Beaufo,  Beaufou, 

Agnes  (de  Northwode)  wife  of 

William,  210. 

,  William,  66,  67,  210,  459. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  sliire  of 

Rutland,  100. 

, ,  of  Willoughby,  307. 

Beaulieu,  Beaulieu  Regis  [co.  Hants], 

abbot  and  convent  of,  170. 
Beaulieu,  Richard,  of  Kirkthwaite, 

28. 
Beaullabaille,  William,  merchant  of 

Brittany,  50. 
Beaumaris,  Beaumarej's  [co.  Angle- 
sey], lordsliip  of,  520. 

,  ship  of,  154. 

Beaumond,    Beaumont.      See   Bello 

Monte. 
Beaup\nie,      Thomas,      burgess      of 

Bristol,  in  parliament,  613. 
farmer  of  subsidy,  317, 

537. 


Beoaneshowo,  William  de,  465. 
Bcccles,  Beclos,  co.  Suffolk,  82,  565. 
Beclieliami)ton.    See  Beachhampton. 
Beckelo.    See  Beckloy. 
Beckenham,   Bekynham,   co.    Kent, 

manor  of,  285. 
Bockington,  Bokyndon,'co.  Somerset, 

159. 
Bockley,  Beckelo  [co.  Oxford],  523. 

Studley  in,  164. 

Becles.     <See  Becclos. 

Beddington,  Bedjiigton,  co.  Surrey, 

427. 

advowson  of,  465. 

deeds  dated  at,  427,  465. 

,  manor  of,  465. 

Bodeford.     See  Bedford. 
Bodeford,  John,  563. 
Bedenhalc,  Thomas  de,  81. 
Bedewardyn,  John  do,  clerk,  96. 
Bedford,    Bodeford    [co.    Bedford], 

bm'gesses   of,   in   parliament, 

101,  290,  298,  477,  613. 
,  St.  Leonard,  master  of  house 

of.     See  Weston,  WiUiam  de. 
Bedford,    Bodeford,   county  of,    87, 

469,  470,  477,  539,  564,  575, 

606. 

,  coroners  of,  235,  395,  494. 

,  earl  of.     See  Coucy,  Ingel- 

ram  de. 
esclieator  in.     See  Brough- 

ton,  John  de  ;  Olneye,  John  ; 

Sewale,     Thomas ;     Styuecle, 

Nicholas. 

,  honour  of  Peverel  in,  138. 

,  justices  of  assize  in,  466. 

,  knights  of  the  sliire  of,  101, 

289,  298,  316,  476,  612. 
,  sheriff  of,   41,   51,   58,    194, 

209,  235,  298,  395,  404,  476. 
beds,  258. 
Bedyk,   Bydyk,    Alexander    son    of 

Thomas,  226,  227. 
,  Hemy,   citizen  of  London, 

227. 

,  John  son  of  Henry,  227. 

,    Richard    de,     clerk,     348, 

430. 
,  Tliomas  son   of   Henry,   of 

London,  226,  227. 
Bedynges.     See  Bceding. 
Bedjnigton.     See  Beddington. 
beeches,  64. 

Beeding,  BedjTiges  [co.  Sussex],  hay- 
ward  of  manor  of,  253. 
,  King's  Barn,  KjTigesbernes 

in,  253. 
Beedon,  Budene,  co.  Berks,  manor  of, 

5o7. 


630 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Beek,  Henry,  chaplain,  580. 

Cf.  Bok. 

Beer  Ferris,  Bore  [co.  Devon],  mines 

of,  107. 
Beere.     See  Bore. 
Beernes.     See  Barnes. 
Bege,  Begge,  Begie,  Hervey,    323. 

,  of    London,  540. 

Begerye.     See  Beggary. 

beggars,  519. 

Beggary,     la     Begerye     fin     Eaton 

Socon],  CO.  Bedford,  417. 
Begge.     See  Bege. 
Begie.     See  Bege. 
Bek,  John,  446. 

Cf.  Beek,  Bik. 

Bekenesfeld,       Joan       (Whateman) 

sister  of  Andrew  de,  427. 
,  Nicholas    de,    escheator    in 

Ireland,  231. 

,  William,  87. 

Bekerel,  John,  537. 
Bekerton,  Robert,  of  London,  323. 
Bekesbourne.     See  Beaksboume. 
Bekeswell.     See  Bexfield. 
Bekjmdon.    See  Beckington. 
Bekyngham,  Thomas,  clerk,  324. 
Bekyngton,    Bokyngton,    John    de, 

escheator  in  Somerset,  29,  31. 
Bekynham.     See  Beckenham. 
Belam,  Roger,  clerk,  454. 
Belassise,  John,  576. 
Bele,  Thomas,  of  Stoke  Goldington, 

441. 

Cf.  Belle. 

Beleknappe,      Bealloiap,      Belknap, 

Ajny  wife  of  Robert  de,  68,  69. 
,  Juliana  wife  of  Robert  de, 

593,  594. 
,  Robert,  Robert  de,  68,  69, 

176,  309,  344,  433,  593,  594. 

,  the  king's  Serjeant,  70. 

Belers,  Beler,   Beller,   Bellers,  AUce 

wife  of  Roger,  2,  3. 

James,  knight,  339. 

Richard,  1,  382. 

,  Roger,   knight,   2,    73,    339, 

445,  446. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Nottingham,  289,  298,  316. 

,  ....  son  of  Roger,  2.  3. 

Belesby,  WilKam  de,  337. 

,  knight,  380. 

Belet,    Walter,    coroner    of    Dorset- 
shire, 8. 
Belford,   co.   Northumberland,   Det- 

chant,  Dychand  in,  448. 
Belgrave,  co.  Leicester,  fee  in,  274. 
Belhous,  Thomas,  475. 
of  Aveley,  87. 


I     Belknap.     See  Beleknappe. 
Bella  Landa.    See  Byland. 
Belle,  Joiin,  of  Leake,  567.  568,  571. 
I      GepiK)  of  Haxey  other- 
wise, 165. 

!      William,  165. 

j      ,  of  York,  386. 

Cf.  Bele. 

[     Beller,  Boilers.     See  Belers. 
Belles,  le.    See  Bell's  House. 
Bellingham,     co.     Northumberland, 
Boweshope  and  Bell's  House, 
le  Belles  in,  121. 

,  Charlton  in,  296. 

Bello  Campo,  Boauchamp.  Beau- 
chaump,  Bollocampo,  Guy  son 
of  Thomas  de,  123,  127,  128. 

,  John,  John  de,  91,  93,  108, 

338,  536. 

1      ,  of  Lillisdon,  537,  573. 

1 ,    .  .  .  . ,    knight   of   the 

j  shire  of  Somerset,  290,  298. 

,  .  .  . .,  of  Ryme,  12. 

I      ,  . .  .  . ,  of  Warwick,  157. 

i      ,     .  .  .  . ,   the    king's    esquire, 

!  207. 

,  Katherine  wife  of  Thomas 

I  de,  123,  127,  128. 

I      ,  Pliilippa,  282. 

,  Reynbrun    son   of    Thomas 

I  de,  128. 

!      ,  Robert,  324. 

'      ,  Roger  de,  captain  of  Calais, 

I  384. 

, ,  knight,  90,  93. 

I      ,  Thomas  de,  earl  of  Warwick, 

91,  93,  123,  124,  126-129. 

I      ,....,    . . . . ,  lord  of  Gower 

and  marshal  of  England,  69, 
108. 
,  sherif?  of  Worces- 
tershire, 138. 
,  . .  .  . ,    knight    of    Bedford- 
shire, 538. 

,  Thomas  son  of  Thomas  de, 

earl  of  Warwick,  69,  123,  124, 
126-129,  158,  322,  330,  441, 
442,  486,  549,  575. 

,  .  .  . . ,    . .  .  . ,  lord  of  Gower, 

453-455,  577. 
,  . .  .  . ,    .....  sheriff  of  Wor- 
cestershire, 138. 

,  William    de,    knight,     441, 

454,  455,  468,  549. 
Bello  Monte,  Beaxmiond,  Beaumont, 
Henry  de,  heir  of,  252. 

,  John,  knight,  523. 

....  son  of  Henry  de,  242. 

,  Margaret  wife  of  Henry  de, 

knight,  62,  63. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


631 


Bell's  House,  lo  Belles  in  Tyncdalo 
[in  Bollingliain,  co.  Nortlium- 
borland],  121. 

Belowe,  jfUico,  237. 

Belstead,  Great  Belstodo,  co.  Suf- 
folk, advowsou  of,  344. 

,  manor  of,  344. 

Beltliam,  Kalpli,  324. 

Bolvere,  John  de,  canon  of  St.  Mary, 
Lincoln,  545. 

Bemorton,  Bjnnorton,  co.  Wilts,  19G. 

Bemsluill,  John,  of  London,  106. 

Bench,  the  Common,  319,  421. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  alteration  of  stylo  in, 

94. 

, chief  justice  of.     See 

Thorp,  Robert. 

,  deed  enrolled  in,  555. 

,  .  .  . .,  justices  of,  15,  22,  36, 

92,  106,  171,  176,  177,  180, 
192,  232,  241,  257,  281-283, 
291,  381,  388,  397,  413,  414, 
417,  431,  449,  452,  453,  457, 
459,  470,  479,  481,  486,  491, 
501,  507,  518,  536,  539,  540, 
541,  545,  578,  579,  580,  583, 
585,  594,  605,  607.  See  also 
Cavendissh,  John  de  ; 
WichjTigliam,  William  de. 

,  .  .  .  .,  office  of  crier  in,  412, 

499. 

,     of    usher    in, 

499. 

,   .  .  .  .,  vrrits  of,  119. 

,  See  Ireland . 

,  the  Iving's,  138. 

,  . .  . . ,  alteration  of  style  in, 

94. 

,  .  .  .  .,  chief  justice  of.     See 

Cavendissh,  John ;  Knyvet, 
John. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  clerk  of.    *See  Bulcote, 

Thomas. 

,  .  .  .  .,  justices  of,  justices  to 

liold  pleas  before  tlie  king,  39, 
48,  92,  241,  257,  328,^371, 
417.     See  also  Knj'\'et,  John. 

Bendles,  the  Benulle  [in  Stoke  upon 
Tern],  co.  Stafford,  356. 

Bendyssh,  Edmund,  346. 

Bene,  Joan  (Ult-s-ng)  daugliter  of 
William,  566." 

,  Robert  de  Gterlethorp,  clerk, 

son  of  William,  566. 

,  Thomas      de       Gerlethorp, 

clerk,  son  of  William,  566. 

,  William.de  Gerlethorp,  clei'k, 

son  of  William,  566. 

,  of  Gerlethorp,  566. 

Benedict,  573. 


Benefield,  Benyfeld  [co.  Northamp- 
ton], parson  of.    See  Broun, 

Geoffrey, 
benefit  of  clergy.    See  clergy. 
Benerigge,  Margaret  wife  of  Richard, 

219. 

Richard,  219. 

Benet,  Benette,  Beneyt,  Jolm,  clerk, 

80. 
,  . . . . ,    monk   of   Kirkstead, 

314,  388. 

,  Robert,  351. 

,  Thomas,    of    Stratford    on 

Avon,   324. 

,  William,  of  Kent,  424. 

Benetfeld.     See  Binfiold, 
Benette,  Beneyt.    See  Benet. 
Benge,  John,  492. 
Bennington  [co.  Hertford]  ?  Benyng- 

ton,  466. 

,  deed  dated  at,  466. 

Bensington,    Bensynton,    Besynton, 

CO.    Oxford,    341,    343,    344, 

347,  450,  555,  556. 
Benstedo,  Agnes  wife  of  Lawrence 

de,  419. 

,  LawTence  de,  419. 

BensjTiton.     See  Bensington. 
Bentele,    Bentelee,    Benteley.      See 

Bentley,  Benteleye. 
Benteleye,   Bentele,   Bentelee,  Joan 

wife  of  Thomas  de,  542,  543. 

,  John,  John  de,  clerk,  82. 

,  . . . . ,   parson  of   Chelsfield, 

542. 

,  Thomas  de,  knight,  542. 

,  William  son  of  Jolm  de,  188. 

, son  of  Jolm  de, 

122. 
Bentham,  John,  merchant  of  Eng- 
land, 136. 
Bentley,  Great  Benteley,  co.  Essex, 

manor  of,  272,  273. 

,  Bentele,  co.  Hants,  110,  388. 

,  .  .  .  .,  chapel  of,  388. 

,  .  .  .  .,  deed  dated  at,  110. 

[co.  York,  W.R.],  98. 

Benulle.     See  Bendles. 
Benyer,  William,  79. 
Benyfeld.     See  Benefield. 
BenjTigton.     See  Bennington  ? 
BenjTigton,  John,  John  de,  466. 

,  clerk,  324. 

.  .  .  . ,  of  London,  draper,  535. 
Thomas,  Thomas  de,  466. 
.  .  .  . ,  of  Hej-bridge,   346. 
William  de,  346. 
....  son  of  John  de,  89,  466. 
Beoley,    Boeleghe,    co.    Worcester, 

manor  of,  108,  453,  454. 


032 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Beovyle.     See  Boeville. 
Bora,  William,  560. 
Borard,  John,  540. 

William,  598. 

Berado,  Francis,  de  Maiorke,  seaman 

of  Oonoa,  509. 
Berde,  Roger,  of  Svvanston,  189,  326. 
Berdefeld.      See  Bardfield. 
Berdene,  John,  574. 
Bere.    See  Boor  Ferris. 
Bere,  Beero,  Richard,  Richard  do  la, 
242,  243,  507,  603. 

,  guardian  of  the  peace, 

and  justice  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  CO.  Hereford,  243. 

,  knight,  75,  76. 

.......  . .  . . ,  knight  of  the  sliire  of 

Hereford,  100. 

Robert,  80. 

,    Thomas   de,    rector   of    St. 

Michael,     Paternoster,     Lon- 
don, 344. 
Berefeld,  John  de,  of  London,  610. 
Bereford.     Sec  Barford. 
Bereford,    Berford,    Adam   de,    333, 
334. 

,  Baldwin  de,  knight,  68,  343, 

450,  555,  556,  559-562,  603. 

,  Edmund  de,  561. 

,  Henry    de,    coroner    of    co. 

Bedford,  395. 

John  de,  334. 

,  Pliilippa  wife  of  Baldwin  de, 

561. 

,  Richard  de,  334. 

,  William,  580. 

Berewic,     Berewyc.       See    Berwick 

upon  Tweed. 
Berewyk.     See  Berrick  Prior,  Ber- 

wyk. 
Berford.     See  Barford,  Bereford. 
Bergeveny.     See  Abergavenny. 
Bergh,  Bergh',  Henry,  410. 

,  Jolin  atte,  176. 

,  Thomas,  465. 

,  William  de,  345. 

Cf.  Burgh. 

Bergham,  Roger  de,  598. 
Bergholt  [co.  Essex],  535. 

,  West,    Bergholte    Sakevylle 

[co.  Essex],  336. 

,  .  .  . . ,  deed  dated  at,  336. 

Bergholte,  Richard  de,  472. 
Berghton,  diocese  of  Norwich,  parson 
of.     See  Cameswell,  John. 

See  Broughton. 

Berham,  William,  of  Middlesex,  583. 
Berkele,  Berkelegh,  Berkeley,  Berlde, 
Edward,  Edward  de,  knight, 
340,  393. 


Berkele — cont. 

,  Joan  wife  of  Edward  de,  340. 

,  John  do,  kniglit  of  the  sliire 

of  Ltuccster,  476. 

Maui-ico     do,      339,      343, 

523. 

,  Nicholas  de,  knight,  80. 

Berkeley,    Berkele   [co.   Gloucester], 

lord  of,  556. 
Berkoswell.     See  Berkswell. 
Berkhampstead,    Berkliainstede,  co. 

Hertford,  545. 
Berkhamstedo,  John,  567. 
Berkle.    See  Berkele,  Berkley. 
Berks,  county  of,  80,  188,  277,  292, 
435,  533,  572,  577. 

,  coroners  of,  8,  16,  171,  386, 

510,  526. 

,  escheator  in.     See  Aunsel, 

William  ;    Froille,  Thomas. 

,  issues  of,  524. 

justices  of  assize  in,  466. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  101, 

288,  298,  316,  611. 

,  sheriff  of,  8,  16,  41,  50,  117, 

171,  203,  248,  280,  298,  386, 
510,  526. 

,  taxation  in,  190. 

Berkswell,  Berkeswell,  co.  W^arwick, 

manor  of,  126. 
Berkway.     See  Barkway. 
Berkynge.    See  Barking. 
Borland,     John,     the     younger,     of 
Essex,  295. 

,  William,  William  de,  knight, 

276,  372,  373. 
Berlay,  William  de,  93. 

Cf.  Biu-ley. 

Borle,   Edmund,   citizen  of  Dublin, 

246,  265, 
Berleston.     See  Barleston. 
Berling,  BerljTig  [in  East  Dean],  co, 

Sussex,  manor  of,  570. 
Berlyng.    See  Berling,  Birling. 
Bei'lyngham.     See  Birlyngham. 
Bermeo,  Vermieu  [Spain,  prov.  Bis- 
cay], 30. 
Bermondesey,  Robert  de,  595. 
Bermondsey,    Bermoundesheye    [co. 

Surrey],  535. 
Bermyngham,  Bermyncham,  Berm- 
yngeham,  Burmyncham,  Bur- 
myngham,  Elizabeth  (de  la 
Plaunke)  wife  of  John  son  of 
Fulk  de,  406. 

,  Fulk    de,    knight,    69,    80, 

331,  429,  430,  603. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Buckingham,  101,    289,    298, 
316. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


633 


Bermyngham,  FiUk  do — rcmt. 

,   .  .  .  .,  kniiilit  of  tho  shiro  of 

Warwick,  612. 

,  Jolm  sou  of  FiUk  do,  40G. 

,  Katlieriuo   (de   la   IMaimko) 

wife  of  William  d(!,  40G. 

,  Richard  de,  502. 

,  William  do,  40G. 

Bemak,  !Mary  wife  of  William  de,  3. 

William,  William  do,  3. 

,  knight,  307. 

Bemangle.    See  Barnaclo. 

Bernard,  Ednumd  brother  of    John, 
119. 

,  .  .  .  . ,   farmer   of   manor   of 

Dodford,  145. 

Gilbert,     guardian     of     tlie 

peace  and  justice  of  oyer  and 
terminer  in  Cambridgeshire, 
47. 

,  Joan    wife    of    Thomas,   of 

Mattersey,  239. 

,  John,  119. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  oschoator  in  co.  War- 
wick, 23. 

son  of   John,  118,  119. 

Richard,  103. 

,  Thomas,  of  Mattersey,  239. 

,  William,  47. 

Bernard's     Castle.       See     Barnard 
Castle. 

Bemard>^l,    Jolm,    merchant,    325, 
329. 

Bemeham.     See  Barnliam. 

Bernehondesacre     in     Shifnall,     co. 
Salop,  409. 

Bernes,  Beernes,  Biernes,  John,  309. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  109, 

535. 

,  . .  . . ,    collector   of   customs 

and  subsidies  in  the  port  of 
London,  530. 

,  mayor  of  London,  210, 

309. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  and  escheator  in 

London,  226,  245,  358,  372. 

,  . . . . ,  mercer  of  London,  181, 

279. 

,  Richard  de,  of  West  Smith- 
field,  110. 

Berneston.    See  Barnston. 

Bemewelle,   Reynold,    Reynold   de, 
of  Essex,  477. 

,  . . . . ,  vicar  of  Steeple  Clay- 
don,  466. 

,  Stephen,    pulter,    of    Cam- 
bridgeshire, 585. 

Berneye,  John  de,  64. 

........  Walter  de,  345. 

Berri,  John,  564. 


Borrick  Prior,  Berowyk  [in  Newing- 

ton],    CO.    Oxford.    341,    342, 

347,  450,  555,  556. 
Bers,  Stoplien,  82. 
Berton.    See  Barrington,  Barton. 
Bertram,  Ellen,  lady  of  Bothal,  291. 

,  Nicholas,  of  \Varwick,  454 

Berughos.     See  BarroSv  Hall  ? 
Borughton.    See  Barrowden. 
Berwick,  Borwyk,  co.  Sussex,  570. 
St.  John  [CO.  Wilts],   Trow 

in,  344,  421,  518. 
upon  Tweed,  Berewic,  Bere- 

wic  upon  Twodo,  209,  218,  238. 
,   chamberlain  of.       See 

Bolton,      John      de  ;       Vale, 

William  de  la. 
collectors  of    customs 

in,  56. 

felonies  at  siege  of,  514. 

,  keeper  of.      See  Malo 

Lacu,  Peter  de. 
,  ravages  of    Scots  in, 

209,  211. 
Berwose,  Peter,  kniglit,  70. 
Berwyk.     See  Berwick. 
Berwyk,  Berewyk,  Hugh,  Hugh  de, 

495,  561. 
, ,  knight,  175,  419,  451, 

589. 
Besaigue,   Bartholomew,  seaman  of 

Gkjnoa,  509. 
Beseby,  Ricliard  de,  490. 
Besford,  Besseford,  Alexander,  Alex- 
ander do,  584,  590,  591,  608. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  farmer  of  subsidy,  424. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Worcestersliire,  546. 

Besiles,  Besyls,  Thomas  de,  knight, 

81,  562. 
Besseford.     See  Besford. 
Best,  Adam,  burgess  of  Bridgwater  in 

parliament,  290,  298. 
Besyls.     See  Besiles. 
Besj-nton.     See  Bensington. 
Betchworth,  West,  Westbechesworth, 

CO.  Siu^rey,  576. 

,  manor  of,  576,  581. 

Betele,  Richard,  293,  294. 

,  WilUam,  323. 

Cf.  Bathele,  Bettelowe,  Bet- 

thelcy. 
Betlow,    Bettelowe     [in    Tring,    co. 

Hertford],  447,  448. 
Bettelowe,  William,  87. 

Cf.  Betele. 

Betteshanger,      Bettlishangre      [co. 

Kent],  parson  of.       See   Tet- 

lyngbm'y,  William  de. 
Botthclev,  Henry,  352. 
'C/.  Btit'helo,  Betele. 


U34 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


BottlisJiangi'e.     See  Betteshanger. 

Beuton.     See  Boughton. 

Bovar,  William,  532. 

Beverage,  Hobort,  85. 

,     of     Cambridgesliire, 

479. 

,  William,  85. 

Beverlo,    Bevorloyo,    John   de,    419, 

469,  530. 

king's  osquiro,  145. 

,  Ralph  do,  chaplain,  583. 

Bevei'lev,    Bovorlo   [co.  York],   53G, 

542,  580. 

,  baihffs  of,  194,  482. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  580. 

Beverleye.     See  Boverle. 
Bevvorth,  Joan  wife  of  John,  371. 

,  John,  371. 

Bexfield,   Bekeswcll   by  Chelmsford 

[in    Chelmsford],    co.    Essex, 

manor  of,  597. 
Bexley,  Bixle,  co.  Kent,  69. 
Beyreton.     See  Biorton. 
Beyvyn,  John,  331. 

,  .....  of  Somerset,  573. 

Bicel,  Gerard  van,  ship  master,  404. 
Bicker,  Byker,  co.  Lincoln,  141. 

,  manor  of,  141. 

Bickington,    High,    Bykynton,    co. 

Devon,  fee  in,  522. 
South  Heale,  Southeales  in, 

343. 
Bicknacre,   Bynakre    [in    Woodhara 

Ferrers    and    Danbury],    co. 

Essex,  350. 
Bidborough,  Bitteberugh,  co.  Kent, 

182,  183,  184,  185. 
Biddenham,  Bydenham,  co.  Bedford, 

515. 
Bienamee.     See  Binhamy. 
Biernes.     See  Bernes. 
Bierton,  Beyreton  by  Aylesbxiry,  co. 

Buckingham,  manor  of,  197, 

200. 
Biewode,  John  de,  rector  of  Foots 

Cray,  344. 
Biflet.     See  Byflete. 
Bigge,  Bygge,  John,  351. 
Bighton,Byketon,  CO.  Hants,  70,  193. 

,  Drayton  in,  193. 

Bik,  Byk,  John,  of  Shelf ord,  390,  487. 
.......  Walter,  chaplain,  367. 

Cf.  Bek. 

Biker,  Wilham,  611. 

Billegh  [in  Tisbury,  co.  Wilts],  344. 

Billes,  Robert,  386. 

Billesby.     See  Bilsby. 

Billesby,  John  son  of  Richard  de, 

378. 
Billesfeld.     See  Bitehfield. 


Billesfeld,  John  do,  parson  of  Booth- 

by  Pagnoll,   92. 

Thomas  do,  534. 

Billing,  Billyiig,  Shillyng,  Great,  co. 

Northampton,  87. 
Billyng,  Little,  Richard,  par- 
son of,  87. 
Billingford,  Billyngford  [co.  Norfolk], 

598. 
Billyng.     See  Billing. 
Billyng,  John,  89. 
Billyngeye,    Ralph   de,    of    London, 

cordwainer,  591. 
Billyngford.    See  Billingford. 
Bilsby,  Billesby,  co.  Lincoln,  126. 

manor  of,  126. 

Bilsington,    Bilsyngton,    co.    Kent, 

manor  of,  412. 
Bilton  [in  Swine,  co.  York],  430. 
Bilton,     Jolxn    de,    of    Holderness, 

knight,  430. 
Binbrook,  Bymbroke,  Bynbroke  [co. 

Lincoln],  412,  499. 
Binfield,     Benetfeld      [co.     Berks], 

bailiff  of   queen   Philippa  at. 

See  Rokele,  William  de  la. 
Bingley,  Bynglay,  co.  York,  manor 

of,  61. 
Binhamy,    Bienamee    [in    Stratton], 

CO.  Cornwall,  manor  of,  90,  93. 
Bintree,  Byntre  [co.  Norfolk],  598. 
Birch,  William,  419. 

Cf.  Burch. 

Birdingbury,  Birchyngbury,  co.  War- 
wick, 547. 
Birewath,  Roger,  of  Preston,  clerk, 

268. 
Birkby,  Bretby  [in  Cross-Canonby], 

CO.  Cumberland,  manor  of,  31. 
,  Brytby    [near   Birstal,    co. 

York],  97. 
Birkyn,  Henry  de,  579. 

,  William  de,  chaplain,  513. 

Birlee.     See  Barley. 

Birling,  Berlyng,  co.  Kent,  manor  of, 

37. 
Birlyngham,      Berlyngham,      John, 

John  de,  323. 
,  . . . . ,  citizen  of  London,  450, 

451. 

,  . .  .  . ,  mercer  of  London,  474. 

Birstall,     Borstalle,     co.     Leicester, 

manor  of,  160. 
Birton  [co.  Lincoln  ?],  419,  420. 

vicar  of.    See  Pelle,  Robert. 

Cf.  Burton. 

Biscathorpe,   Biscopthorp,   co.    Lin- 
coln, 379. 
Biscay,  county  of  Viscaye  [Spain], 

112,  113. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


635 


Biscay — cont. 

,  merchants,  shipinast((rs  and 

scanion   of,    at    Bruges,    112, 

113. 
Bischepton.     See  Bisshopcston. 
Biscopthorp.     See  Biscatliorpo, 
Biscovey,  Boswytligy  [in  St.  Blaze], 

CO.  Cornwall,  manor  of,  8G. 
Bishop's  Nympton.     See  NjTnpton. 
Bishop's  Sutton.     See  Sutton. 
Bishopstone,  Bisshoposton  [in  ^lont- 

acute,  CO.  Somerset],  461. 
Bishop  Stortford.    See  Stortford. 
Bishop's  Wickliam.     See  Wickham. 
Bispham,  Bispham  in  Lej'londsliii-e 

[in    Croston],    co.    Lancaster, 

manor  of,  54. 
Bissebiu'y.    See  Bysshebury. 
Bisseye,  Bissheie.    <See  Busliey  ? 
Bisshoye,    Bjssheye,    John    de,    of 

Watford,  293,  294. 

,  Thomas  son  of  John  de,  293. 

Cf.  Buscy. 

Bisshopeslull.    See  St.  Mary  Bishop- 
hill. 
Bisshopcston.    >See  Bishopstone. 
Bisshopeston,    Bischepton,    Bussho- 

peston,    Bysshopeston,    John 

de,  56,  85. 

, ,  clerk,  283,  284. 

,  .  .  .  .,  escheator  in  Kent,  10, 

12,  13,  19.  21,  37,  45,  46,  55, 

120,   122,   125,   137,   144,   145, 

147,  148,  165,  167,  210,  235, 

271,  364. 
,....,     ....    in     Middlesex, 

122,  125,  148,  152. 
,  .  .  . . ,    ....    in     Siu-i'ev,    55, 


56,   122,    125,    145,    148,  245, 

253,  364. 
,  ....,    ....    in    Sussex,   21, 

37,    122,    125,   145,    148,    161, 

253,  271,  282. 
Bisshopuswode    in    Malvern    chace, 

bailiwick  of,  569. 
Bitchfield,  Billesfeld  [co.  Lincoln],  92. 
Bitellisgate,  John,  339. 
Biterlegh,  Robert  de,  kniglit,  478. 
Bittadon  ?  Wydden,  co.  Devon,  fee 

in,  523. 
Bitteberugh.    See  Bidborough. 
Bitton,      Button,     co.      Gloucester, 

manor  of,  212. 
Bixle.     See  Bexley. 
Bixton,  Peter  de,  citizen  of  Norwich, 

222. 
,  Robert  de,  citizen  of  Nor- 
wich, 222. 
,  Walter,  citizen  of  Norwich, 

222. 


Blaby,  co.  Leicester,  549. 
Blackborough  Boty,  Blakobxirghbot 

[in   Kentisbeare],  co.  Devon, 

223. 
Black    Botu-ton,    Bourton,    co.    Ox- 
ford, manor  of,  50. 
Blackford,  Blakworth  [in  Stoke  Holy 

Cross],  CO.  Norfolk,  manor  of, 

564. 
Blackmere,     Blakomero     [in    Wliit- 

cluu"ch,  CO.  Salop],  lo  Strange 

of,  204. 
Black  Notloy,  Nottele.     See  Notley. 
Blacktoft,  Blaktoft,  co.  York,  manor 

of,  580. 
Blacolneslo,  Blaconesle.    See  Blakes- 

ley. 
Blacsale.     See  Blaxliall. 
Bladworth,  Henry  de,  of  Yorksliire, 

423. 
BladjTidon,  Jordan  de,  83. 
Blaithwaite,    Blakthwaj?t    [in    Wig- 
ton],  CO.  Ciunberland,  124. 
Blakchild,  John,  citizen  of  London, 

238. 
Blake,  Richard,  citizen  of  London, 

570. 

,  WiUiam,  331,  537,  596. 

Blakeboiu'ne.     See  Blakeburne. 
Blakebm'ghbot.     See  Blackborough 

Boty. 
Blakeburne,  Blakebourne,  John,  254. 

,  Robert  de,  chaplain,  453. 

Blakedene,  William  de,  94,  474. 
Blakeheye.    See  Blakeshay. 
Blakehou  moor,  co.  York,  17. 
Blakemere.    See  Blackmere. 
Blakemor,    Blakomor,    Wilham,    of 

Norwich,  324. 
Blakenay,    Nicholas    de,    citizen    of 

Norwich,  222. 
Blakeney  [co.  Norfolk],  keepers  of 

the  passage  in  the    port  of, 

449,  467. 
Blakeshaj',  Blakeheye  [in  Newtown 

Linford],  co.  Leicester,  351. 
Blakesley,    Blacolnesle,    Blaconesle, 

CO.  Northampton,  19,  207. 
,  Wood  End,  the  Wodende  in, 

208. 
Blaket,  Bartholomew,  74,  605. 

,  .....  of  Oxfordshire,  597. 

Blake%v5Ti.  Blak^v\ni,  John,  348. 

,  Theobald,"  of  Sudeby,  288. 

BlaklJ^lgge,  William,  citizen  of  Nor- 
wich, 222. 

Cf.  Bleldjnig. 

Blakomor.    See  Blakemor. 
Blakthwayt.    See  Blaithwaite. 
Blaktoft.     See  Blacktoft. 


636 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Blakvvorth.     See  Blackford. 
Blakwyu.    See  Blakowyn. 
blanch  farm,  48. 
Blankopeyn,   Blaiinkiiayno,  Walter, 

596. 

,   .  .  .  .,  of  Ilchestor,  334. 

Blanket,     Edmiiud,     inerchaut     of 

Bristol,  30. 
,  Gregory,        merchant        of 

Bristol,  30. 
Blankniouster,  Blankmoiistioi*.     See 

Albo  Moua.storio,  611. 
Blast',  Thomas,  598. 
Blaunchappelton.         See      London, 

places  named. 
Blaunchard,  John,  clerk,  578. 
Blaunche,     Joan,     relict     of     John 

Devonissh,  551. 
John,    vintner    of    London, 

545. 
Blaimkpayne.     See  Blankepeyn. 
Blaiiwere,  Nicholas,  570. 
Blaxliall,     Blacsale,     Blaxliale,     co. 

Suffolk,  manor  of,  46. 
,  rector  of.    See  Yate,  Thoinas 

atte. 
Blebury,  John,  clerk,  82. 
Blecchynglegh.     See  Bletchingly. 
Bleklyng,  Peter  de,  citizen  of  Nor- 
wich, 222. 
,  Simon  de,  bailiff  of  Norwich, 

222. 

i    Cf.  Blaklyngge. 

Blencarn,    Blenkarn    [in    Kirldand], 

CO.  Cumberland,  4. 
Blencowe,  Blencou,  Adam  de,  ver- 

derer  of  Inglewood  forest,  414, 

514. 
,  Elizabeth      (de      Vespount) 

wife  of  Tliomas  de,  147. 

,  Thomas  de,  147. 

Blenkarn.     See  Blencarn. 

Bleseby,  Katherine  wife  of  William 

de,  370. 

,  WiUiam  de,  370. 

Bletchingly,       Blecchynglegh,       co. 

Surrey,  burgess  of,  in  parlia- 
ment, 297. 
Blockele,  Blokkele,  John,  532. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  de,  chaplain,  farmer  of 

manor  of  Oxliill,  145. 
Blofield,  Blofeld  [co.  Norfolk],  hun- 
dred of,  547. 
Blokkele.     See  Blockele. 
Blormt,  Blont,  Edmxmd,  392. 

, son  of  Hugh,  212. 

,  John,  rector  of  Alton  Barnes, 

280,  284,  285. 
Joyce    wife    of    Hugh    le, 

knight,  322. 


I     Blount — cont. 

,  Peter,  104. 

,  Thomas  de,  knight,  82. 

,  Walter,  93. 

Blounts,  Gyngejoberdlaundry,Gynge 

Joibord  Laundry,  Gyngejoy- 

berdlaxmdri    [in    Buttsbury], 

CO.  Essex,  fee  in,  274. 

,  manor  of,  322. 

Bloxliam  [co.  Oxford],  deed  dated  at, 

194. 
Milcomb,     Mildecombe     in, 

194. 
Bloxliolm,  Bloxham,  co.  Lincoln,  ad- 

vowson  of,   160. 

,  manor  of,  160. 

Bluet,  Walter,  knight,  86,  603. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  laiight  of  the  shire  of 

Somerset,  612. 
Blundell,  John,  of  Crosby,  230. 
Blundeston  [co.  Suffolk],  82. 
Blunsdon,  co.  Wilts,  Lower  Widhill, 

Westwythyhull    in,    344. 
Bluseworth,    John,    chaplain,    446, 

448. 

,  Nicholas,  the  elder,  446. 

j     Blyborough,  Blyborgh  [co.  Lincoln], 
I  farm  of,  474. 

boar,  free,  profit  of,  205. 
Bobwyth,  Henry  de,  88. 

,  Thomas  de,  clerk,  88. 

Bobyngton,    Bobjixton,    Phihp    de, 

356. 
,  . .  . . ,  coroner  of  co.  Stafford, 

135. 
1     Bocher,  Peter,  105. 
i     Booking,  Bockynge,  co.  Essex,  597, 

604,  605. 
Bockinge,    Bockyng,    John    son    of 

William  de,  161. 

,  Thomas,  457. 

,  William  de,  161. 

Bockingfold,   Bokyngfold   [in  Yald- 

ing],  CO.  Kent,  manor  of,  271. 
Bockyng,  Bockjoige.     See  Becking, 

Bockinge. 
Bodecleye.     See  Butleigh. 
Bodeham.     See  Bodenham. 
Bodekesham,  Bodesham,  John,  John 

de,  323. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  burgess  of  Bletchingly 

in  parliament,  297. 
,  Thomas,  burgess  of  ICing's 

Lynn  in  parliament,  299. 
Bodelsalie,  Benedict  de,  lieutenant  of 

admiral  of  the  fleet  in  Dart- 
mouth, 488. 
Bodenham,  Bodeham,  co.  Hereford, 

236,  560. 
Bodesham.     See  Bodekesham. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


637 


Bodiam,  Rodyham  [co.  Sussex],  247. 

Bodmin,  BodInJ^^,  co.  Connvall,  bur- 
gess of,  in  ]mrliainont,  298. 

Bodrugan,  Otto,  knight  of  the  sliiro 
of  Cornwall,  lUO. 

Body,  liicliard,  .3.57. 

Bodyliain.     See  Bodiam. 

Bodyngton,  David,  of  London, 
436. 

Boeloghe.     See  Beoley. 

Boetcline,  Roger,  knight,  300. 

Booville,  Beovyle,  John,  86,  SCO. 

Boget,  Hugh,  371. 

BogJietouno.    Sec  Button  ? 

Bogliewaio,  John,  342. 

Boho,  William,  105. 

Bohun,  Elizabeth  wife  of  William  do, 
earl  of  Northampton,  63. 

,  Humphrey  de,  earl  of  Hero- 
ford  and  Essex,  137,  138,  158, 
300,  309,  461,  494,  503,  505, 
506,  508. 

, ,  the  elder,  409. 

,  .  .  . . ,     .  .  .  . ,    the    yoimgcr, 

408,  409. 

,  Joan  wife  of  Hiunplirey  de, 

earl  of  Hereford  and  Essex, 
494,  495,  505,  508. 

,  .  .  .  . ,    .  .  .  . ,    assignment    of 

dower  to,  495,  496. 

,  John,  407. 

,  William  de,  earl  of  North- 
ampton, 63,  409,  505. 

Boitone.     See  Boytone. 

Bokebrigge,Bokebrugo,Boughbrigge, 
Bticbrugge,  William  de,  clerk, 
161,  346,  433,  441,  549. 

Bokelond.    See  Buckland,  Bukeland. 

Bokenhamferie,  Bokenliamfery.  See 
Buckenliam. 

Bokesworth.     See  Boxworth. 

Bokholte.     See  Buckholt. 

BokjTXgfold.    See  Bockingfold. 

Bokyngham.     See  Bukyngham. 

Bokyngton.    See  Bekyngton. 

Bolas,  Great,  Boulewas,  co.  Salop, 
advowson  of,  75,  76. 

,  manor  of,  75,  76,  143. 

Bolajmge,  John,  343. 

Boldesore,  Bollesorc,  Jolm.  390. 

,  Richard  de,  clerk,  48,  49. 

Bolestrode.  Edmund  son  of  Edmund, 
564,  566. 

,  Maud    mother    of    Edmimd 

son  of  Edmmid,  566. 

Bollard,  Jolm,  ship  master  of  Causer 
in  Zeeland,  258. 

Bollesdon.     See  Bowsden. 

BoUesoro.     See  Boldesore. 

BoUok.    See  Bullok. 


Bolnhurst  [co.  Bedford],  deed  dated 
at,  577. 

Bolour,  Nicholas,  331,  537. 

Bolton,  Boulton,  John  de,  chamber- 
lain of  Bcrwick-upon-Twoed, 
209,  210. 

,  .  .  . . ,  king's  clerk,  63, 

211,  218,  238.' 

,  William  de,  539. 

Bolton  le  Moors,  upon  the  Moors,  co. 
Lancaster,  assignment  of 
dower  in,  355. 

,    Breightmet,      Bright- 

mcdo  and  Harwood  in,  500. 

,  LongAvorth  in,  528. 

,  Moss  in,  355. 

,  toll  of,  355. 

Percy  [co.  York],  parson  of. 

Sec  Hedolay,  Adam  do. 

,     Pallothorp,    Paddok- 

thorp  in,  229,  234. 

Bolystrede,  Robert  de.  175. 

Cf.  Bolestrode. 

BombjTie,  Copyn,  409. 

Bomsted,  Thomas,  citizen  of  Nor- 
wich, 222. 

Bonde,  Beatrice  wife  of  Nicholas, 
543. 

,  Nicholas,  286. 

,  knight,  442,  543. 

Robert,  550. 

Bondegate,  Adam  de,  chaplain  of 
altar  of  St.  Mary  in  collegiate 
cliurch  of  Ripon,  79. 

Bone,  Philip,  196. 

Bonefaco,  \A'illiam,  coroner  of  Corn- 
wall, 122. 

Bonefay.     See  Bonfaj'. 

Boneville,  Bone\'j'le,  Bonevyllo, 
John,  608. 

,  William,  491. 

,  . .  . .,  knisht  of  the  shire  of 

Devon.  289,  298. 

Bonewelle.     See  Bun  well. 

Bonej'e.     See  Bimny. 

Bonfay,  Bonefay,  John,  553. 

Bonham.  Nicholas,  Icuight  of  the 
shire  of  Wilts,  476,  611. 

Bont,  Robert,  citizen  of  Salisbury  in 
parliament,  297,  316. 

Bonu.«,  Jolm,  sliip  master,  509. 

books,  166,  331,  381,  384. 

Boole,  William,  345. 

Boothby  GrafToe  [co.  Lincoln], 
Somerton  castle  in,  397. 

Pagnell,  Bothcby  by  Billes- 

feld,  CO.  Lincoln,  92. 

,  deed  dated  at,  93. 

,  manor  and    advowson 

of,  92. 


638 


GENERAL    LS'DEX. 


Boothby  Pagiiell — cont. 

pai'son  of.     See  Billes- 

feld,  John  de. 

Bordeaux,  Boui-doaux,  Btu'doux 
[Franco],  169,  404,  516. 

Bordelby,  Bortlielby  [in  East  Hars- 
ley,  CO.  York — site  of  Mount 
Grace  priory],  manor  of,  588. 

Bordesloy  abboy  [in  Tardubigg,  co. 
Worcostor],  abbot  of,  92. 

Boroham,  Borhani,  co.  Essex,  89. 

[in    Wartling,    co.    Sussex]. 

296. 

Borel,  lioynold,  540. 

Boresworth.     See  Bosworth. 

Borewell.     See  Biu'well. 

Borham.     See  Boreham. 

Borle,  Borlegh.    See  Bui'ley. 

Bornhalle.     See  Bourneliall. 

Borovvli',  William  de,  332. 

Borstalle.     See  Birstall. 

Bortlielby.     See  Bordelby. 

Bortheyn,  Robert,  537. 

Boryate,  John,  burgess  of  Bedford  in 
l^arliament,  101. 

Boscastle,  Botriauxcastol,  co.  Corn- 
wall, 86. 

Boseworth.     See  Bosworth. 

Bosham,  John,  mercer  of  London, 
404. 

Bosoun,  John,  citizen  of  Exeter  in 
parliament,  298. 

Boston,  St.  Botolph  [co.  Lincoln], 
130,  567,  568,  570,  571. 

bailiffs  of,    115,   201,   264, 

308,  329,  357,  428,  482. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  567,  568,  571. 

,  mayor  of,  115. 

,  port  of,  44,  192. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  collectors  of  custom  in, 

129,  130,  150,  409. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  controllers  in,  150. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  keepers  of  passage  in, 

449,  467. 

Boston,  Simon  de,  monk  of  Kirk- 
stead,  388. 

Thomas  de,  540. 

,  William  de,  of  London,  87. 

Cf.  Sancto  Botulpho. 

Bosworth,  Husbands,  Boresworth, 
CO.  Leicester,  overcharge  of 
pasture  at,  1,  382. 

,  parson  of.  See  Fox- 
ton,  Roger  de. 

,  Market,       Boseworth,      co. 

Leicester,  61. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  advowson  of,  125. 

,  •  .  . . ,  Shenton,  Sheynton  in, 

60. 

Boswythgy.     See  Biscovey. 


Botcler,    Botilor,    Botillor,    Butiller, 

Alan    son    of    Joan    wifo    of 

Tliomas  le,  208. 

,  Edward,  Edward  le,  15. 

, ,  of  Norbury,  446,  447, 

448. 
Ehzabetli        daughter       of 

William,  of  Wem,  61. 
,  ....  wifo  of  James  le,  earl  of 

Ormond,  113. 
,  James  le,  earl  of  Ormond, 

113,  381, 
,  Joan  wife  of  John,  of  Bab- 

ingley,  359. 
,  ....    ( Yerward)   cousin    of 

Richard,  274. 

,  John,  189,  348. 

,  ....  son  of  Jolm,  of  Babing- 

ley,  359. 

Peter  le,  249. 

Robert,  21. 

of  Hartwell,  332,  55L 

,  Thomas,  448,  492,  493. 

Botelesford.     See  Bottesford. 
Boteresliam.     See  Bautersem. 
Boterford.     See  Butterford. 
Boterford,  John,  393. 
Boterwyk.     See  Buttirwyk. 
Boterye,  Simon  de  la,  89. 
Bothal,    Bothale    [co.    Northumber- 
land], lady  of.    See  Bertram, 

Ellen. 
Bothe,  Thomas  del,  keeper  of  rivers 

in  Yorksliire  and  Lincolnshire, 

164. 
Botheby.     See  Boothby. 
Botheby,    Jolin    de,    king's    clerk, 

chancellor  of  Ireland,  365. 

,  .  .  . .,  parson  of  Bainton,  92. 

,  Tliomas  de,  parson  of  Bitch- 

field,  92. 
Botilbrigge.    See  Botolph  Bridge. 
Botild,  John,  312. 
Botiler,  Botiller.    See  Boteler. 
Botillers,  le.     See  Butler's  Cross. 
Botolijh  Bridge,  Botilbrigge  [in  Orton 

Longueville],  co.  Hvmtingdon, 

manor  of,  92. 
Botoun,  Jolm,  227. 
,  Robert,   keeper   of   Rother- 

field  manor,  508. 
Botreaux,     Botrianx,    William    de, 

knight,  83,  86. 

,  ....  son  of  William  de,  16. 

Botriauxcastel.     See  Boscastle. 
Bottallick,  Botylet  [in  Lanreath],  co. 

Cornwall,  manor  of,  86. 
Bottesford,  Botelesford  [co.  Lincoln], 

parson    of.      See   Codyngton, 

Henry  de. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


639 


Bottoiirt.     See  Buttetort. 

Boty,  Robert,  561. 

Botylot.     See  Bottallick. 

Bouclondo.  (SceBiicklaud,  Bukoland. 

Boudon,  Alice,  441. 

Bouet,  Bowet,  Adam,  of  Yorkshire, 

449. 

,  Henry,  parson  of  Croft,  334. 

Botxghbrigge.     See  Bokobriggo. 
Bougliton,  Boiiton  [in  Southoo  and 

Diddington],  co.  Huntingdon, 

40,  46. 
Bouklond.    See  Buckland. 
Boukode,  Agnes  daiiglitor  of  John, 

of  Wallington,  341,  342,  347. 

450. 
Boulewas.     See  Bolas. 
Boulewas,  John,  Jolin  de,  142,  143. 
,  ....  son  of  John  de,  knight, 

75,  70. 
Parnell    wife    of    Jolrn    de, 

knight,  75,  142. 
Boulogne,  lionoiu*  of,  408. 
Boulton.    See  Bolton. 
Bourdeaux.    See  Bordeaux. 
Boiu-e,  Alice  atte,  366. 
,  Isabel   daugliter   of   Walter 

atte,  366. 

,  Reynold  atte,  602. 

Thomas  atte,  85. 

,  Walter  atte,  366. 

,  William  de  la,  366. 

Boui'ghcher,  Boui'gcher,  Burghchey, 

Jolm,   John  le,   knight,    146, 

492. 
Bourgliope.     See  Burghope. 
Bourgneuf,  la    Baye    [France,    dep 

Vendue],  port  of,  53. 
Boiu'n,  Briuine,  co.  Lincoln,  92. 
Bovirne,  Hugh  atte,  coroner  of  co. 

Salop,  363. 

,  Roger,  283. 

Boiirnehall,    Bornhalle   by  AVatford 

[in    Bushey],    co.     Hertford, 

manor  of,  535. 
Bourton.  See  Black  Bourton,  Burton. 
Bov'yndon,  Master  Peter  de,  43. 
Bow,     Strotford     atte     Bo  we      [co. 

Mddlesex],  532. 
Bowdles,  Jolin,  of  Colmworth,  577. 
Boweman,  Jolin,  352. 
Bowes,  CO.  York,  Applegarth,  Appel- 

gai'tli  in,  511. 
Bowes  hope  in  Tynedalc  [in  Belling- 

ham,     CO.     Northiunberland], 

121. 
Bowet.     See  Bouet. 
Bowey,  Margery,  356. 
Bowode,  John,  the  elder,  coi'oner  of 

CO.  Dorset,  221. 


bows,  381,  517. 

and   arrows,   proliibition    of 

export  of,   114,   115. 

,  purveyance  of,  222. 

Bowsden,  Bollesdon  [in  Lowick,  co. 

Northiunberland],  497. 
bowstrings,  144. 

Boxford,  Boxore,  co.  Berks,  597. 
Boxford,  Robert,  323. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  de,  draper,  1 74. 

Boxley,  co.   Kent,  Hoisted,  Halgh- 

stede  in,  46. 
Boxore.    See  Boxford. 
Boxstede,  Peter,  585. 
Boxtat,     Lamsin     de,     bxirgess     of 

Ypros,  152. 
Boxworth,    Bokesworth    [co.    Cam- 
bridge], 71,  376. 
,  parson    of.      See    Sliirlond, 

Amaury  de. 
Boy.     See  Boye. 
Boydenis  tenement  in  Stebbing,  co. 

Essex,  349. 
Boydezone,  Francis,  152. 
Boydon,  Boydjai,  Thomas,  472. 
Boye,  Boy,  Thomas,  of  Blaby,  549. 

,  William,  clerk,  536,  537. 

Boyn,  John,  350. 

Boys,  Jolm,  John  de,  564,  565,  569. 

,....,    of    Great    Dunmow, 

101,  102. 
,   ....  son  of  John  de,  knight, 

68. 
,  Roger,    Roger    de,    knight, 

171,  535,  550,  564,  565,  569. 
,  . . . . ,  . . . . ,  son  of  Jolin  de, 

68. 
,  .  .  .  .,  knight  of  the  shire  cf 

Suffolk,  290,  299,  316. 
Boytone,     Boitone,     John     son     of 

Robert  do,  609. 

,  Mary  wife  of  Robert  de,  609. 

Robert  do,  609. 

Boyville,    Boyvile,    Boyvyle,    John, 

knight,  81,  84,  589,  610. 
,  .....  knight  of  the  sliire  of 

Rutland,  100. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  kniglit,  verderer  of  the 

forest  of  Rutland,  236. 
,  William,  biu'gess  of  Truro  in 

parliament,  298. 
, ,  clerk,  279,  286,  456, 

466. 

Cf.  Boeville. 

Brabant,  Braban,  cloth  of,  217. 

,  duke  of.     See  Lewis  II. 

Brabourne,  co.  Kent,  manor  of,  12, 

120. 
Brabourne,  Braburne,  Robert,  71. 
Bvacebrig,  William,  95. 


640 


GENERAL    ESTDEX. 


Brackenfield,       Bralcunthweit       [in 
Morton],  co.  Dorby,  manor  of, 

49. 
Bradefeld.     See  Bradfield. 
Bradefeld,  Tliomas,  553,  554. 
Bradeford.     See  Bradford. 
Bradele,  Kobort  do.  GOl. 
Bi'ademero.  Honry  do,  burgess  of  Not- 
tingham in  parliament,  290. 
Bradenham,     East,     Estbradenham 

feo.  Xorfolk],  parson  of.     See 

TydjTige,  Henry. 
Bradenham,  Robert,  Robert  de,  99 

322,  327,  350,  453,  486. 
Bradestone.  Agnes  wife  of  Thomas 

do,  44,  52.  53. 
,  Tliomas  son  of  Robert    de, 

44,  52,  54. 
Bradewas,  John,  of  Compton,  603. 
Bradewatre.     See  Broadwater. 
Bradewe.     See  Badowo. 
Bradfield,  Bradefeld  [co.  Berks],  429. 
Combust,   Brendebradefeld. 

CO.  Suffolk,  471. 
St.    Clare,    Bradefeld  Scint- 

cler,  CO.  Suffolk,  471. 
Brad.ford  [co.   Salop],  hundred     of, 

355,  356. 
,  CO.  York,  Heaton,  Heton  in, 

97. 
on    Avon,    Bradeford,    co. 

Wilts,  601. 

,  d(^ed  dated  at,  601. 

,  .  .  .  .,  hundred  of,  601. 

Bradgate  Park,  co.  Leicester,  351. 
Brafferton,  co.  York.  576,  577. 
Braham  [in  Spofforth],  co.  York,  7. 

,  manor  of,  7,  39. 

Braham,  John  de,  kniglit,  472. 

,  William  de,  329,  547. 

Braheuse.  John  de,  149. 

Cf.  Breouse,  Browes. 

Brailes.  Bravlo,  co.  Warwick,  manor 

of,  126. 
Brailesford.  Henry,  knight,  565. 
Braille,  Nicholas  de,  81. 

Cf.  Bi-ayles. 

Braine,  Brayn,  John,  448. 
,  Richard,    collector    of    sub- 
sidy, 527. 
Braintree,    Branketre,    alias    Great 

Rej'Tie  [co.  Essex],  574. 
parson  of.     See  Fjmch\Tig- 

feld,  John  de. 
Braithwaite    [in    Crosthwaite],    co. 

Cumberland.  146, 
Braithwell,      co.     York,      Bramley, 

Br  ami  ay  in,  377. 
Brakele,  Brakkeley,  John  de,  burgess 

of  Derby  in  parliament,  101. 


]3rakele — cont. 

,  Nicholas  de,  84. 

Brakonbery,   Thomas  do,   cliaplain, 

562. 
Brakcnliolm,  John  de,  92,  580. 
Brakkeley.     See  Brakolo. 
Brakunthweit.     See  Brackenfield. 
Brambor,     Brombre     [co.     Sussex], 

baihffs  of,  325. 

,  barony  of,  238. 

,  lord  of  the  lionour  of.     See 

Mowbray,  John. 

,  ward  of  castle  of,  253. 

Bi'ambeshute,  Elizabeth  wife  of  John 

de,  48. 

,  John  de,  48. 

Bramfiold,    Bromfeld,    co.    Suffolk, 

manor  of,  565. 
Bramford  [co.  Suffolk],  deed  dated 

at,  565. 

,  Lovetoft,  Lovetotes  in,  565. 

Bramley,   Bramlay   [in  Braithwell], 

CO.  York,  377. 
Brampton,  co.  Huntingdon,  manor 

of,  433. 

,  Branton  [co.  Norfolk],  468. 

Ash,  Brampton,  co.  Noith- 

ampton,  manor  of,  557. 

See  Branton  Green. 

Brampton,  Richard  de,  merchant  of 

Bristol,  30. 
Brandesby.     See  Brandsby,   Brent- 

ingby. 
Brandesford,  Wolstan  de,  bishop  of 

Worcester,  271,  364,  525. 
Brandeston,    Braimdeston,   co.   Suf- 
folk, 494. 

,  manor  of,  344,  421. 

Brandeston,  Braundeston,  Adam  de, 

of  Ipswich,  494. 

,  Robert  de,  69. 

C/.  Braunston. 

Brandon  [in  Hough-on-the-Hill,  co. 

Lincoln],  236. 
,  Braimdon  [in  Wolston],  co. 

Warwick,  deed  dated  at,  74. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  74. 

Brandon,  John  de,  parson  of  Southe- 

rey,  459. 

,  Thomas  de,  chaplain,  87. 

Brandsby,    Brandesby    [co.    York], 

159,  255. 
,  lord  of.     See  Ryvere,  John 

de  la. 
,  Roger  the  personesman  of, 

166.  167. 
,  Thomas  the  personesman  of, 

166,  167. 
Branketre.     See  Braintree. 
Branketre,  John  de,  188. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


641 


Branketre,  Jolm  de — cont. 

, the  king's  notary,  424. 

,   treasurer  of  St.  Peter's, 

York,  434,  445. 
Branscoinbo,    Walter,    collector    of 

subsidy  in  Devonshire,  2'24. 
Branston,  l^raiuuli-ston  [co.  Leices- 
ter, fee  in,  273. 
Brantisby,  Thomas,  427. 
Branton  Green,  Brampton  in  Thomes 

[in  Aldborough],  co.  York,  7. 

See  Brampton. 

Branton,  Andi'ow  son  of  Robert  de, 

468. 

,  Cicely  do,  468. 

Brantyngham,  Tliomas  do,  constable 

of  Somerton  castle,  397. 

William  de,  308,  453. 

Brasgoniis  de  Penryn,  52,  53. 

Brasier,  Brasj^er,  John,  4G6. 

,  William,  btu-gt^ss  of  Bedford 

in  parliament,  290,  477,  613. 
Brathwayt,  John  de,  parson  of  Bun- 
well,  547. 
Bratton,  John,  339. 

Peter  de,  523. 

Brauncestre,  Thomas  de,  esquire  of 

the  king's  eldest  son,  328. 
Braunche,  Andrew,  119. 
,  Eleanor  do  Wj^nselade,  sister 

of  Andrew,  120. 
,  Mary  wife  of  Thomas  son  of 

Andrew,  119,  120. 
,  Thom£ks  son  of  Andi*ew,  119, 

120. 
Braundeston.         See      Brandeston, 

Branston. 
Braundon.    See  Brandon. 
Bratmston,  co.  Rutland,  manor  of, 

247. 
Bravinston,  Richard  de,  23. 

Cf.  Brandeston. 

Braimton,  co.  Devon,  Santon,  Sand- 
ton  in,  523. 
Brawdy,  co.  Pembroke,  Riccarston, 

Ricardeston  in,  592. 
Braxted,  Great,  co.  Essex,  94. 
Braj',  Brave  [co.  Berks],  64. 
,  bailiff  of  queen  Philippa  at. 

See  Rokele,  William  de  la. 
,  manor  of,  haywards  of.    See 

Draj^on,  John  de  ;    Yerdele, 

Roger  de. 

,  keepers  of,  155. 

Bray,  Hugh,  chaplain,  461. 

,  John,  28,  493. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  usher  of  the  exchequer, 

499. 

,  Robert,  608,  610. 

Stephen,  328. 


Bray — cont. 

William,  bailiff  of  Stepleton, 

242. 
Braybrok.    See  Braybrooke. 
Braybroke,      Gerard,      Gerard      de, 

knight,  67.  68,  70. 

,  Giles,  of  London,  434,  435. 

Braybrooke,    Braybro'k   [co.   North- 
hampton], 547. 

,  advowson  of,  547. 

,  castle  of,  547. 

,    lord     of.        See      Latimer, 

Thomas. 
Br  aye.     See  Bray. 
Brayle.     See  Brailes. 
Brayles,  Thomtis,  Thomas  de,   181, 

596. 

Cf.  Braille. 

Brayn.     See  Braine. 
Brajniford.     See  Brentford. 
Brayton,  Elizabeth  (de  Sutton)  wife 

of  John  de,  579. 

,  John  de,  579. 

,  ....    son   of    John    de,    of 

Campsall,  579. 

,  Richard  son  of  John  de,  572. 

bread  and   ale,  assizes  of,  164,  216. 
Broch',  William,  clerk,  422. 
Bredeford,  Jolm,  of  Becking,     597, 

604,  605. 
Bredon,  co.  Worcester,  manor  of,  569. 
,  liinsham,   Kilmesham,   and 

Mitton  in,  44. 
Breedon  on  the  Hill,  co.  Leicester, 

Worthyngton  in,  84. 
Bregge.     See  Brigge. 
Bregham,  John  de,  85. 

Cf.  Brighani. 

Breightmet,  Brightmede  [in  Bolton], 

CO.  Lancaster,  manor  of,  500. 
Brembre.     See  Bramber. 
Brembre,  Nicholas,  536. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  335, 

450,  451. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  sheriff  of  London,  470, 

471,  531. 
,  Robert  de,  of  Oxfordshire, 

327. 
Bremfeld.     See  Brimfield. 
Brendebradefeld.    See  Bradfield. 
Brendepelham.     See  Brent  Pelham. 
Brendewode.     See  Brentwood. 
Brenge,  WiUiam,  318,  597. 
Brenkeworth.     See  Brinkworth. 
Brennand.  Brennehand.  Richard,  of 

Knaresborough,   200.   582. 
Brentford,  BrajTiford,  co.  Middlesex, 

535. 
Brentingby,  Brandesby,  Brentyngby, 

CO.  Leicester,  339. 

CR  41 


G42 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Brentingby — cont. 

too  in,  274. 

,  manor  of,  339. 

Brentingliam,  Tliomas  do,  bisliop  of 

Exeter,  192,  251,  287. 
,   .  .  .  . ,     tlie    treasurer, 

485. 
Brent  Marsh,   Bruntomerssh   [lower 

Axe    valley],    co.    Somerset, 

coroner  for  parts  of,  57. 
Brent    Pelliam,    Brendopelham,    co. 

Hertford,  587. 
Brentwood,  Brendewode  [co.  Essex], 

548. 
Brentyngby.     See  Brentingby. 
Brentjmgby,  Richard  de,  parson  of 

Wyfordby,  339. 
Breouso,   Beatrice  wife  of  Thomas, 

Thomas  de,  knight,  86,  607. 

Cf.  Braheuse,  Brewcs. 

Brerelay.     See  Brierley. 

Brerlay,  Brerelay,  Mand  mother  of 

Thomas  de,  431. 

,  Thomas  son  of  Hugh  de,  431. 

William  de,  396,  431,  469. 

Brescy,    John,   of    Steeple   Morden, 

73. 
Bret,  Bernard  de  la,  kniglit,  ransom 

of,  468. 
,  Isabel     (Lidj-ard)     wife     of 

Thomas  le,  of  West  Ham,  455. 

,  John,  84. 

,   .  .  . . ,    knight,    of    Notting- 
hamshire, 324. 

....... ,  of  York,  465. 

,  Thomas,    Thomas    le,    263, 

455,  456. 

William,  352. 

Bretby,  Bretteby,  co.  Derby,  manor 

of,  374. 

See  Birkby. 

Bretewell.    See  Brightwell. 
Bretons,   Bretonesland  in  Havering 

atte  Bower,  co.  Essex,  604. 
Bretoun,  William,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Warwick,  288. 

, ,  knight,  430. 

Bretteby.     See  Bretby. 
Bretteby,  John  de,  chaplain,  70. 
Bretton,  John,  John  de,   440,   531, 

532,  587,  590. 
Brewer,  John,  602. 

,  William,  chaplain,  312. 

Brewes,  Agnes  wife  of  John,  411. 

,  John,  John  de,  411. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight,  566,  569. 

,  Katherine  de,  358. 

,  Sara  de,  215. 

Cf.  Braheuse,  Breouse. 

Brewode,  John,  clerk,  559, 


Brian,    Briono,    Brj'an,    John,    fish- 
monger,   323. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  parson  of  St.  Andrew, 

Castle     Baynard,     157,     158, 

447,   448. 
.......  Thomas,    342,    343. 

Brico,    John,    coroner   of    Somerset- 
shire,  3. 
,  of    Little    Yarmouth, 

82,   545. 

,  Simon,  cliaplain,  599. 

Brickhill,  Brykliull,  Great  [co.  Buck- 
ingham],   parson    of.         See 

Merton,  John  de. 
Briddoford.     iSee  Britford. 
Bridelcscombe.     See    Burlescombe. 
Bridford.     See  Britford 
bridges,  repair  of,  140,   176,  592. 

See  also  Lynn. 

Bridgetown,    Bruggeton    [by    Strat- 

ford-on-Avon],  co.  Warwick, 

85. 
Bridgnorth,  Bruggenorth,  co.  Salop, 

biu-gesses   of,    in   parliament, 

290,  298. 

,  ward  of  castle  of,  207. 

Bridgwater,     Brigewauter,     Brigge- 

water,  Briggewauter,  Brugge- 

wauter,  co.  Somerset,  52,  194. 
,  bailifis  of,  115,  201.    See  also 

Dyere,  Richard;   WoUavyng- 

ton,  Roger  de. 
,  burgesses  of,  in  parliament, 

101,  290,  298. 

,  Flemings  of,  345. 

keepers  of  the  passage  in  the 

port  of,  449. 
Bridport,    co.    Dorset,    bailiffs    and 

bxirgesses  of,  34. 
,  burgess    of,    in    parliament, 

298. 
Bridwode,  John,  John  de,  clerk,  319. 
Bridwyke   [in     Shiffnal],   co.    Salop, 

415. 
Briene,  Bryene,  Bryenne,  Guy,  Guy 

de,  158,  229. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  keeper  of  St.  Briavel's 

castle,  258. 
,   .  .  . . ,   ....   of    the  forest  of 

Dean,  258. 
, ,  knight,  61,  65,  84,  85, 

86,  104. 
,    the    king's    admiral, 

216,  217. 
,  . .  .  . ,  ....  from   the  mouth 

of  the  Thames  westward,  222, 

226. 
,  John,  clerk,  of  Devon,  434, 

435. 
.......     See  Brian, 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


643 


Brierley,    Brorelay    [in   Felkirk,    co. 

York],  manor  of,  431. 
Brigoastcrton.     See  Castorton. 
Brigewanter.     See  Bridgwater. 
Briggo,    Brogge,    Bnigge,    Brngges, 

Brygge.    Brj^T^igge,    Ediniuid, 

Edinimd  do,  108,  454,  596. 

,  kniglit  of  the  sliire  of 

Worcester,  612. 
,  Hugh,  of  London,  merchant, 

56. 

,  James,  401. 

,  John,    341,    343,    344,    347, 

556,  560,  602. 

atte,  89,  349, 

, ,  of    Dickleburgh, 

378. 

,   ....  de,  clerk,  171. 

,  Peter  de,  83,  196,  330,  533. 

,  .  .  . . ,  sheriff  of  Hants,   78, 

177. 

,  Philip  atte,  285,  336. 

,  Richard   Page  son   of   Sara 

atte,  of  Mattersey,  239. 

,  Thomas  atte,  clerk,  529. 

Briggewater,      Briggewauter.        See 

Bridgwater. 
Brigliam,Honry.  of  Wandsworth, 599. 

Cf.  Bregham. 

Brighthampton,  Jolin,  coroner  of  co. 

Gloucester,  235. 
Brightleye,     William,     collector     of 

subsidy  in  Devonsliire,  224. 
Brightman,  John,  349. 
Brightmede.     See  Breightmet. 
Brightwell,  Bretew^ell  in  Cassio  and 

Watford  [co.  Hertford],  manor 

of,  315. 
,  Bryghtwell     [co.      Oxford], 

341,  343,  344,  347,  450,  555, 

556. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  deeds  dated  at,   341- 

344,  347,  450,  555,  556,  558. 
,   ....,    manor   of,    341,    344, 

347,  450,  554,  556,  559,  561. 
Brikoden,  Rejmold,  452. 
Brimfield,    Bremfeld,    Brunfeld,    co. 

Hereford,  manor  of,  75,  142. 
Brington,  Brj-ngton,  co.  Northamp- 
ton, advowson  of,  274. 
,  Nobottle,     Newebotele     in, 

354,  355. 
Briningham.  BrinjTigham  [co.  Nor- 

folk],  67. 
Brinkley,  Bryngele  [co.  Cambridge], 

advowson  of.  123. 
Brinklow  [co.  Warwick],  Brjoiliclowe- 

dam  in,  472. 
Brinkworth,  Brenkeworth,  co.  Wilts, 

175. 


Brinsworth,        BrjTnmesford        [in 
Rotlicrham],    co.    York,    417. 
Brinjnigliam.     See  Briningham. 
Brisete,  Robert,  commissary,  240. 
Brislee,  Bru.sele,  Honi'y,  Hem-y  de, 

70,  106. 
Bristol,  Bristowe,  30,  136,  169,  194, 
275. 

barton  of,  117,  118. 

,  burgesses  of,  in  parliament, 

298,  613. 

,  castle  of,  117,  118. 

,  .  .  .  .,  chantry  in,  118. 

,  collectors  of  customs  in  port 

of,  11,  136,  150,  161,  169,  409. 

,  common  seal  of,  11. 

,  ganger  of  wines  at,  25. 

keepers  of    passage  in  port 

of,   11,  449. 
,     lords     of.       See    Hamon, 

Robert  son  of;  William. 

,  lordships  of,  212. 

,  mayor    and    bailiffs    of,    11, 

116,   117,  131,  151,  152,  169, 

201,  263,  329,  347,  368,  444, 

483. 

,  men  of,  112. 

,  merchants  of,  11,  30,  169. 

,  mill  of,  117,  118. 

,  port  of,   11,   131,   169,   192, 

201. 

,  St.  Augustine's  abbey,  259. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  Henry  abbot  of,  259. 

,  St.   James'   church,   cell   of 

Tewkesbury   abbey,    117. 

,  serjeanty  of  tidal  river  in,  25. 

,  ship-masters  of,  131. 

,  sliips  of,  30,  518. 

,  staple  of,  11. 

,  taxation  in,   527,   537,   538. 

,  the  king's  receiver  in,   117. 

Brit,  Guy,  393. 

Britford,       Briddeford,       Bridford, 

William,  William  de,  keeper 

of  passage  in  port  of  London 

and  the  Thames,  362. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  searcher  of  forfeitures 

in   port   of   London   and   the 

Thames,  226,  522. 
Brittany,   136,  222,   517. 

,  men  of,  50. 

,  merchants  of,  32,  50. 

,  ship  of,  33. 

,  strife  on  coast  of,  169. 

,  treasiu-er  of.    See  Melbourne, 

Thomas  de. 
Brittewell,  John  de,  175. 
Britwell,    Brotewell,    Brotwell,    co. 

Oxford,    341,    343,    344,    347, 

450,  555,  656. 


644 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Britvn,  Robert,  of  Cambridgoshire, 

691. 
Brixton,  co.  Devon,  Halwell,  Hagh- 

will  in,  393. 
Broadchalk.     See  Chalke. 
Broadwator,  Bradewatre,  co.  Sussex, 

manor  of,  40G,  407. 
Broadvvindsor,  co.  Dorset,  Adeshani 

in,  1G3. 
Brooas,  Brokas,  Bernard,  83. 

,  clerk,   119. 

....... .kniglit,  72,  93,  98,  196, 

447,  448,  543,  drA,  607. 
,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Hants,    101,    289,    297,    316, 

611. 
Brockele,  Brokele,  Brokkelogh,  John, 

190,  294. 

,  WilUam,  527. 

Brockenhiu'st,       Brokcnhurst       [co. 

Hants],  manor  of,  420. 
Brockliall,  Brokliole  [co.  Nortliamp- 

ton],  546. 
Brocklesby,  co.  Lincoln,  Newsham, 

Neusom  abbey  in,  500. 
Broghton.     See  Brougliton. 
Brokas.     See  Brocas. 
Broke.    See  Brook. 
Broke,  Brooke,  James  atte,  568. 

,  John,  331,  393. 

, atte,  70,  570. 

,  Maud  atte,  356. 

,  Nicholas,  of  Bradfield,  429. 

,  Ricliard,  saddler,  174, 

.......  Walter,  532. 

,  William  atte,  of  Newton  by 

Sudbury,  the  elder,  440. 
,   ....  de,  citizen  of  Norwich, 

222. 
Brokele,     See  Brockele. 
Brokenborough,    Brokenbrowe,    co, 

Wilts,  175. 
Brokenluu'st.    See  Brockenhm'st. 
Brokhill.     See  Brokhull. 
Brokliole.     See  Brockliall. 
Brokhull,  Brokhill,  Margaret  wife  of 

Thomas  de,  194. 

,  Thomas  de.  434. 

Brokhurst,  John,  the  younger,  549. 
Brokkelegh.     See  Brockele. 
Brom,  Brome,  Hugh  del,  242. 

,  Richard  de,  322. 

,  Robert,    of    WarA;\ack,    535, 

536. 
Bromfeld.     See  Bramfield. 
Bromfield,   co.   Cumberland,   Crook- 

dake,  Cruddayk  in,   124. 
Bromhale  priory  [in  Windsor  forest, 

CO.  Berks],  Alice  prioress  of, 

260. 


BromhuU,  Lawrence  brother  of 
Ralph  do,  29. 

,  Ralpii  de,  29. 

Bromlo,  William,  prior  of  Hui-loy, 
533. 

Bromwich,  West,  co.  Stafford,  Sand- 
well  priory  in,  288. 
iBromwych,  John,  391. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knigiit  of  the  sliire  of 

Hereford,  289. 

,  Richard,  bailiff  of  the  liberty 

of  Oswaldslow,  410. 

Bromyard  [co.  Horeford],  189. 

,  deed  dated  at,  189. 

Bromyngfeld,  Richard,  citizen  of 
Rochester  in  parliament,  290. 

Brond,  John,  c]ia])lain,  344. 

Bronstone,  Robert,  586. 

Bro6k,  Broke  in  Holcombo  Rogus 
[co.  Devon],  603. 

Brooke.     See  Broke. 

Brotewell,  Brotwell.     See  Britwell. 

Brothorcross.  See  Gallow  and 
Brothercross. 

Brotherton,  Mary  wife  of  Thomas 
de,  countess  of  Norfolk,  21. 

Brougham,  Burgham,  co.  West- 
moreland, 126. 

•.,  manor  of,  126. 

Broughton,  Berghton  [co  Hants], 
330. 

,  manor  of,  330,  333. 

Broughton,  Broghton,  John,  John 
de,  585,  593. 

,  escheator  in  Bedford- 
shire, 417,  418,  494,  498,  509, 
515. 

,  . .  . . ,  ....  in  Buckingham- 
shire, 418,  494,  496,  499,  508, 
514,  527. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Cambridge- 
shire, 493,  504. 

,  .  .  . . ,  ....  in  Huntingdon- 
shire, 496,  504. 

,  Thomas  de,  knight,    194. 

,  .  .  . . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Oxford,  476. 

Broun,  Brune,  Adam,  475. 

,  Andrew,  111. 

,  Arnald,    of    Sandwich,    516, 

517. 

,....,     .  .  .  . ,    baron    of    the 

Cinque  Ports,  299. 

,  Geoffrey,    parson    of    Bene- 

field,  458. 

John,  213,  35.5,  356. 

,   . .  .  . ,  of  Dunham,  554. 

,  . . .  .,  priest,  471. 

,  Matthew,        escheator       in 

Northamptonsliire,   219,  220. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


646 


Brouii — tunt. 

Alii.irico  lo,  knight,  (57. 

Jlichard,  G02. 

,  Robert,  3  49. 

,  VVultoi,  349. 

,  of  Somerset,  425. 

William,  189,  378,  472. 

,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Cornwall,  289,  Gil. 

, of  York,  434. 

;  Cf.  Brom,   Biime,  Bruyii. 

Brounchild.  William,  .519. 
Brounesford,  Simon  de,  478. 
Brounhous,    Brimhous,    Kobort    de, 

79. 
Brouns,  Broiinz,   Richard,  441,  562. 
BrounyiTg,      John,      of      Woolwich, 

467. 
BrounjTigluill,    Richard,    citizen    of 

Rochester  in  parliament,  316. 
Broiinz.     See  Brouns. 
BroiLS,  Robert  de,  151. 
Broxted  alias  Cham-eth,  Chaur',  co. 

Essex,  349. 
Brudeport,   Tliomas,   knight   of  the 

shire  of  Dorset,  100. 
Bruges,  Brugges,  Flanders,  32,  300. 

,  bin-gesses  of,  225,  226,  385. 

,  burgomaster,    echcvins   and 

consuls  of,  233,  385. 
,     dean     of,     chancellor     of 

Flanders,  300. 
,  nien  of  Castile  and  Biscay 

at,  112. 

,  merchants  of,  169,  225. 

Brugge.     Sec  Brigge. 
Bruggenorth.     See  Bridgiiortii. 
Brugges.    See  Brigge,  Bruges. 
Bruggeton.     See  Bridgetown. 
Bruggewauter.     See  Bridgwater. 
Brumstead,  Brunstede  [co.  Norfolk], 

425. 
Brun.     See  Brune. 
Brunby,  Gerard  de,  coroner   of    co. 

York.  358. 
Brune,  William  de,  513. 

See  Broiui,  Biunne. 

Bnmfeld.     See  Brimficld. 
Bnmham.     See  Burnham. 
Brimham,  Jolm  de,  mavor  of  ling's 

LjTua,   386. 
Brunhoas.     See  Broimhous. 
Bnmne.     See  Bom'ne. 
Brvmne,  Richard,  of  Applegarth,  511. 

,  Stephen,  510,  511. 

Cf.  Brtme. 

Brunstede.     See  Briunstead. 
Bruntemerssh.     See  Brent  Marsh. 
Brusele.    See  Brislee. 
brushwood,  309. 


Bruyn,    Ingolram    brother   of   Joan, 

285. 
,  Joan  (do  Overton)  daughter 

of  WiUiam,  knight,  285. 
,  Richard    brother    of    Joan, 

285. 

,  ....  son  of    Robert  le,  118. 

,  Robert  lo,  knight,  118. 

Cf.  Broim. 

Bruys,  David  do,  of  Scotland,  64. 

,   .  .  .  .,   .  .  .  .,  ransom  of,  211. 

,  sea!  of,  129. 

,   . . . . ,  .  .  . . ,  truce  with,  130. 

Bryan.     See  Brian. 

Bryant's    Puddle,     Pudelo    Tiu'ber- 

ville,  Pydelo  Turbervyllo    [in 

Affpuddle],    CO.   Dorset,    179, 

181,  543. 
Bryd,  William,  of  Hulcot,  308. 
Bryene,  Bryenno.     See  Briene. 
Brygge.     *See  Brigge. 
Bryghryche,  Robert,  parson  of  Alde- 

biu-y,  405,  407. 
Bryghtwell.     See  Brightwoll. 
Bryhtlyngesbrigge.     See  Chapel. 
BrykliuU.     See  Brickhill. 
Brynunesford.     See  Brinsworth. 
Bryne,  co.  York,  528. 
Bryngele.    See  Brinkley. 
Bryngton.     See  Brington. 
BrjTikele,  John  de,  abbot  of  Bury 

St.  Ednumds,  60. 

, ,  elerk,  373. 

Brynkelowedam.     See  Brinklow. 
Brytby.     See  Birkby. 
Bryugge.     See  Brigge. 
Bucbruggo.     See  Bokebrigge. 
Buckenham,  Bokenhamferie,  Boken- 

hamfery,  co.  Norfolk,  329. 

advowson  of,  547. 

,  deed  dated  at,  547. 

,  Ellis  parson  of,  329. 

,  manor  of,  547. 

Buckliolt,  Bokholte  forest,  co.  Hants, 

verderer    of.      See   Pershede, 

Nicholas. 
Buckingham,  Bukingham  [co.  Buck- 
ingham], bailiffs  of,  482. 
,  Lenborough,    Letliingbome 

in,  326. 
Buckingham,  Bukingham,  Bukyng- 

ham,   county  of,    66,    67,   87, 

96,    308,    433,  441,  536,  564, 

571,  578. 

,  coroners  of,  9,  44,  237. 

,  escheators  in.     See  BroUgh- 

ton,    John ;      Olnoye,     Jolm ; 

Sewale,    Thomas ;     Styuecle, 

Nicholas. 
,  honom-  of  Poveril  in,  138. 


C46 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Buokiughain,  cuiuity  of — cant, 

,  justices  of  assize  in,  466. 

,  kniglits  of  tlie  slxire  of,  101, 

289,  298,  316,  476,  612. 

,  office    of    chamberlain    and 

uslier    of    the    exchequer    in, 
123. 

sheriff  of,  9,  13,  41,  44,  58, 

194,  209,  237,  298,  404,  476, 
627,  544. 
Buckland,  Bouklond  [co.  Berks],  122. 

,  Bouclonde  in  Nether  Wallop, 

CO.    Southami^ton,  nnanor    of, 
330,  332. 

,  Buklond  [co.  Hertford],  444. 

St.      Mary,      Bokelond      St. 

Mary  [co.   iSomer.set],  parson 
of.    5ee  White,  Peter, 
buckles,  324. 
bucks,  149. 

Buckworth,  Bukworth  [co.  Hunting- 
don], parson  of.     See  Payn, 
William. 
Bucstede.     See  Buxted. 
Budde,  John,  239. 

,  . . . . ,      chaplain,      son      of 

WilUam,  239. 

,  William,  239. 

Cf.  Byde. 

Bude!,  John,  309. 
Budene.     See  Beedon. 
Buk,  Duk,  W^alter,  566,  569. 
Bvikbrok,  Jolin  de,  burgess  of  North- 
ampton in  parliament,  298. 
Bukeland,      Bokelond,      Bouclonde, 
Jolm,  333. 

, citizen  of  Dublin,  246, 

266. 

,  Maud  wife   of   Thomas  de, 

330,  333. 

„ ,  Richard,  67. 

,  Thomas  de,  knight,  330,  333. 

Bukingham.     See  Buckingham. 
Buklond.     See  Buckland. 
Bukmongere,  John,  180. 
Bukton,    Jolui   de,    coroner   of     co. 

York,  236. 
Bukworth.     See  Buckworth. 
Bukyngham.     See  Buckingham. 
Bukyngham,     BokjTigham,     JoIin, 
John  de,  129. 

,  .  .  .  .,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  91, 

92,  108,  238,  248,  249,  251, 
403,  404,  424,  486,  505,  512, 
588,  610. 

,  .  .  . . ,     farmer     of     Hendon 

church,  152. 

,  Thomas  de,  545. 

WiUiam,  of  London,  taver- 

ner,  470. 


Bulbek,  Jolui,  336. 

Bulcote,  Thomas,  clerk  of  the  King's 
Bencli,  308. 

bull,  free,  profit  of,  205. 

Bulleville,  Kolxirt,  43. 

Bullok,  Bollok,  Hc'lewiso,  350. 

,  John,  of  London,  tapicer,  99. 

,  the  king's  tapi- 
cer, 40. 

,  Robert,  441. 

bulls,  prohibition  of  introduction  of 
papal,  200. 

Bulmero,  Margaret  wife  of  Ralph  de, 
139. 

Ralph  de,  139,  485. 

son  of  Ralph  de,  139. 

Bumpstead  Helion,  Bumpstode,  co. 
Essex,  fee  in,  492. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  Hersham  in,  492. 

,  Steeple,  Bmnpstede,  527. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  vicar  of.     See  Musk- 

liam,  John  de. 

Bungeye,  Reynold  de,  citizen  of 
Norwich,  222. 

Bunny,  Boneye,  co.  Nottingham,  2. 

Buntyng,  Agnes  wife  of  John,  49. 

,  John,  49. 

Buntyngford,  John,  552. 

Bvmwell,  Bonewelle  [co.  Norfolk], 
parson  of.  See  Brathwayt, 
John  de. 

,  Haddeston  in,  564. 

Burch,  Gilbert  del,  453. 

Cf.  Birch. 

Burcham,  Geoffrey,  of  London,  325. 

Burdet,  Gerard,  140. 

,  Jolui,   monk  of  Ecclesfield, 

442,  443. 

, ,    of   Hellethorpe,    337. 

,    prior    of    Ecclesfield, 

457,  594. 

,  ....  son  of  Gerard,  knight, 

141. 

,  ....  son  of   John,  of  Helle- 
thorpe, 337. 
,  Robert,  273. 

Bvirdeux.     See  Bordeaux. 

Burdeyn,  William,  323. 

Burden,  Gregory,  147. 

Burdy,   Hugh,   coroner  of  Norfolk, 
512. 

Bures,  John,  John  de,  323.  332,  471. 

son  of  Michael  de,  471, 

472. 

,  Mary  (de  Wlielnetham)  wife 

of  Michael  de,  471. 

,  Nicholas,  90. 

,  Robert  de,  69. 

Bures  St.  Mary,  Bures,  co.  Suffolk, 
I  bridge  at,  176. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


647 


Burgate,   co.    Suffolk,   foes  in,   492, 

493. 
,  North.   Ouergato   [iix   Forcl- 

ingbri(lg«i],  <;o.  Hants,  15. 
Burgato,  William  do,  492,  493. 
Biirgcis.  Burgovs,  Robert,  of  Melton 

:Mo\vbrav,  339. 

,  Williain,  343. 

,   .  .  .  .,  t'ha])lain,  338. 

Burgh,  CO.  Lincoln,  379. 

,  l^arwe,  co.  Norfolk,  advow- 

son  of,  396. 
Wallis,      Burghwalass       [co. 

York],  471. 
Burgh,  Bm-go,  Elizabetli  do,  120. 

,  John  do,  439,  492,  493. 

, ,  knight,  85,   182,   183, 

565. 

,  of  Westmoreland,  444. 

,  Richard  de,  knight,  327. 

,  Robert  de,  goldsmith,  426. 

,  Simon  de,  96,  473. 

,  .  .  .  . ,    farmer    of    subsidy, 

424. 

,  Thomas  de,  293. 

,  William  de,  73,  339,  446. 

Burgham.    See  Brougham,  Bm'ham. 
Burghcher.     See  Bourghcher. 
Burghclere,    co.    Hants,    Earlstone, 

Erleston  in,  551. 
Burgherssh,  Bartholomew  de,  46,  47, 

125. 
, ,  knight,  41,  42,  78,281, 

395,  396. 
,  Cicely  wife  of  Bartholomew 

de,  47. 
,  Elizabeth        (le        Spenser) 

daughter  of  Bartholomew  de, 

47. 

,  John,  John  de,  260. 

,  knight,  of  Essex,  346. 

,   ....  son  of  John,  260. 

,  Margaret  wife  of  Bartholo- 
mew, 41,  42,  395,  396. 
Burghope,       Bourghope,       Tiiomas, 

Thomas  de,  75,  76,  142,  143. 
,  .  .  .  . ,   coroner  of  Hereford- 
shire, 162. 
Burghill,    CO.    Hereford,    Tillington, 

Tullynton  in,  75,  76. 
Burghwalass.     See  Burgh. 
Bui'gilon,     Burgoylloun,     Burgylon, 

Hugh,  17. 

,  Robert,  271,  364,  430. 

Bui'go.     See  Burgh. 

Burgoylloun,  Bm-gylon.     See  Burgi- 

lon. 
Biirham,  Burgham,  co.  Kent,  manor 

of,  37. 
Bixrlay.     See  Burloy. 


Burlogh,  CO.  Devon,  82. 
Burlescombo,       Bridlescombe,       co. 

Devon,  manor  of,  507. 
Burley,  Burlay  [in  Leeds,  co.  York], 

97. 
Biu-ley,  Borlo,  Borlogh,  John,  John 

do,  83,  239,  391. 
knight,    75,    76,    189, 

560. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  parson  of  West  Tarr- 
ing, 21. 

Cf.  Berlay. 

Bui'myncliam,    Burmyngham.      See 

Bermyngeham. 
Burneby,      Agnes      (de      Estbvuy) 

daughter   of   Eustace  son   of 

Nicholas  de,  237. 
Burnel,  Nicholas,  158. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and  jvustice  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  Salop,  590. 
Burnelhouses  [near  AckwortJi  ?]  co. 

York,  189. 
Bm-net,  Stephen,  332. 
Burnham,    Brunham,    co.    Norfolk, 

262. 
Westgate,      Bm'nham,       co. 

Norfolk,  manor  of,  275. 
Burnsall,     co.     York,     Hartlington, 

Hertlyngton  in,  7,  39. 
Bui-nton,   John    Quenyld    otherwise 

called,  607. 
Burre,  Peter  son  of  Poter,  of  Hom- 

don,  263. 
Bvu-stall,  William,  William  de,  440. 

, ,  clerk,  171,  484,  532. 

,  . . . . ,    clerk     of     chancery, 

287,  445. 
,  .....  keeper  of  the  rolls  of 

chancery,  287,  345,  440. 
,  .  .  .  .,  parson  of  Flamstead, 

68. 
Burstow,    CO.    SmTey,    Reed    Hall, 

Redehalle  in,   185,  191. 
Bvu-stowe,  Richard,  Richard  de,  185. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Sm'rey,  612. 
Burte,  John,  343. 
Burton,     Bvu-ton     in     Wyrall     [co. 

Chester],  520. 
,  Bourton  atte  Nasse,  Burton 

atte  Nasshe  [in  Marnhnll],  co. 

Dorset,  344. 

,  fee  in,  421. 

in   Whippingham,    Uppyng- 

ham.  Isle  of  Wight,  prior  of, 

parson  of  Wliippingham,  153. 
•.  Latimer,  Bm'ton,  co.  North- 

eunpton,  73,  430. 
,  advowson  of,  430. 


648 


GENERxVL    INDEX. 


Bui'toix  Latiiuer — cont. 

:,  church  of,  73. 

,  manor  of,  430. 

Lszars,   St.   Lazarus,    Soint, 

Seynt  Lazar,   Lazor,  339. 
,  hos])ital  of,  brethren  of, 

432,  433,  437,  438. 
,  chapter  of,  deeds 

dated  in,  433,  437. 
,   . .  .  . ,  master  of.      See 

Chaddesdon,      Geoffrey     de  ; 

Dovere,  Nicholas  de. 

Leonard  [co.  York],  60L 

Overey,  Barton,    co.  Leices- 
ter, fee  in,  293. 
upon   Trent    [co.    Stafford], 

abbot  and  convent  of,  596,  610. 

67.  Birton. 

Burton,    Bourton,   Edmund   de,   es- 

choator   in    Salop,    274,    370, 

374,  379,  409,  414,  457. 
,  . .  .  . ,  ....  in    Staffordshire, 

274. 
,  Eleanor  wife  of  William  de, 

575. 
,  Joan  wife  of  Thomas  de,   of 

London,  27,  28. 
,  John,  John  de,  85,  533,  573, 

597. 

, ,  clerk,  120. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of     London,     tapicer, 

591,  592. 

,  Maud  de,  97. 

,  Robert  de,  parson  of  South 

Ockendon,  94,  96,    285,    336, 

344. 
,....,     ....     of      Wickliam 

Bishops,  95. 

,  Thomas  de,  knight,  577. 

,  .  .  .  .,  son  of  Nicol  de,  601. 

,  Walter  de,  223. 

,  William,  William  de,  85,  433, 

575. 
, ,   knight,    66,    67,    330, 

334,  442,  453-455,  549. 

,  of  Cambridge,   537. 

, ,  of  London,  27,  28. 

Burwell,  Borewell,  co.Cambridge,591. 

,  deed  dated  at,  565. 

,  fee  in,  493. 

,  manor  of,  565. 

,  St.    Mary's    church,    Henry 

rector  of,  565. 
Bury,  CO.  Sussex,  manor  of,  392. 
......     St.     Edmunds,     Bury,     co. 

Suffolk,  89,  423,  471. 

abbey  of,  60. 

,    . . . . ,  abbot  of/      See 

Brynkele,  Jolm  de. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  vacancy  of,  60. 


Bui-y,  Adaiu  du,  alderman  of  London, 

470. 

,  citizen  of  London,  112. 

,  . .  .  . ,  mayor  of  London,  530. 

,  Ralph  de,  263,  267. 

Buscy,  BuKsy,  John,  John  de,  252. 

William,  248. 

Cf.  Bissheye. 

Bushby,  Busseby  [in  Tlnu'nby],  co. 
Leicester,  fee  in,  274. 

Bushey,  co.  Hertford,  Bournehall, 
Bornhalle  in,  535. 

?  Bisseye,  Bissheie,  194,  563. 

Busseby.     See  Bushby. 

Bixssh,  John  atte,  of  London,  497. 

Busshell,  Richard,  collector  of  sub- 
sidy, 527. 

Busshoposton.      See    Bisshopeston. 

Bussy.     See  Buscy. 

Busteler,  Robert,  knight,  266. 

But,  John,  275. 

Buterwyk.     See  Buttirwyke. 

Buticombe,  Butycombe,  John,  Jolm 
de,  verderer  of  Inglewood 
forest,  9,  363. 

Butiller.     See  Boteler. 

Butleigh,  Bodecleye  [co.  Somerset], 
535. 

Butler's  Cross,  le  Botillers  in  Bab- 
ingley,  co.  Norfolk,  359. 

Butterford,  Boterford  [in  North 
Huish],  CO.  Devon,  fee  in,  393. 

Buttesthorn,  Roger,  knight  of  the 
shire  of  Dorset,  612. 

Buttetort,  Bottourt,  Buttourt,  John, 
526. 

, ,  loiight,  221,  527. 

,  Maud  wife  of  John,  526. 

Buttirwyke,  Boterwyk,  Buterwyk, 
John,  105,  309,  440,  441,  457, 
471. 

Button  [in  Bratton  Fleming]  ?  Boghe- 
toune  park,  co.  Devon,  342. 

See  Bitton. 

Button,  Matthew,  collector  of  sub- 
sidy, 527. 

Buttourt.     See  Buttetort. 

Buttsbmy  [co.  Essex],  Blounts, 
Gyngejoberdlaimdry,  Gynge 
Joiberd  Laundry,  Gyngejoy- 
berdlaundri  in,   274,   322. 

Butycombe.     See  Buticombe. 

Buxhull,  Buxhill,  Alan  de,  373. 

,    constable,    keeper   of 

the  Tower  of  London,  250, 
254,  275,  508,  510,  529. 

Buxted,  Bucstede,  co.  Sussex,  37. 

Buxton,  CO.  Norfolk,  court  of,  468. 

Byde,  William,  canon  of  St.  ^lary, 
Salisbury,  559. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


C4U 


Byde.  William — cont. 

,  clerk,  475. 

Bydonliam.     See  Biddonham. 

Bydyk.     Sec  Bcdyk. 

Byeston,  Thomas,  vicar  of  Edmon- 
ton, 173,  174. 

Byfleet,  Byfloto,  co.  Surrey,  474. 

Byflete,  Biflot,  Tliomas,  Thomas  de, 
110,  176,  419. 

Bygge.     See  Biggo. 

Bygode,  Tliomas,  323. 

Bygot,  Jolin,  sheriff  of  Yorkshire,  373. 

Byk.     See  Bik. 

Bykor  [in  Newcast'.o-iipon-Tyne, 
CO.  NorthumborlandJ,  111. 

,  manor  of,  448. 

See  Bicker. 

Byketon.     See  Bigliton. 

Bykynton.     See  Bickington. 

Byland,  Bella  Landa  [in  Coxwold, 
CO.  York],  abbot  of,  262. 

Byle,  Henry,  44. 

,  mercliant  of  Swanage, 

50. 

Bymbroke.     See  Binbrook. 

Bymerton.     See  Bemerton. 

Bynakre.     See  Bicknacre. 

Bynbroke.    See  Binbrook. 

Bynbroko,  William  de,  of  Lincoln- 
shire, 562. 

Byndyng,  John  son  of  Richfird,  241. 

Bynglay.    See  Bingley. 

Byntre.     See  Bintree. 

Byntre,  Ellis  de,  pai-son  of  Dalham, 
171,  564,  565,  569. 

Bjrschebury.     See  Bysshebury. 

Bysouthe.  Alexander,  190,  294. 

Bysschop,  Robert,  439. 

By&sliebury,  Bissebury,  Byschebnry, 
Sir  Nicholas  de,  352,  354,  355. 
,  Thomas  de,  89. 

Byssheye.     See  Bissheye. 

Bysshopeston.     See  Bisshopeston. 

Bytham,  Castle,  Castelbitham,  Chas- 
telbithara  [co.  Lincoln],  castle 
of,  458. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  deed  dated  at,  458. 

,  .  . . . ,  lord  of.     See  Colvile, 

Robert. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  458. 

Bytheme.     See  Bji;horn. 

Bythewatre,  Richard,  clerk,  68. 

Bythom,  Bjrtherne  [co.  Huntingdon], 
348. 

Byxen,  John,  596. 


Cachepole,  Henry,  citizen  of  Here- 
ford in  parliament,  290,  298. 
Cadbury,  North,  Nortlicadebmy  [co. 
Somerset],    parson    of.      See 
Chagoford.  John  de. 

,  South,     Southcadbury,     co. 

Somerset,  advowson  of,   393. 
Caddington    [co.    Bedford]     Minor, 
CadjTigton   the   less,   probcn- 
■  dary  of.     See  Navosby,  Wil- 
liam do. 
Cade,  William,  568,  570. 
Cadehud's  tenement  in  Stebbing,  co. 

Essex,  349. 
Cadewillo  park,  co.  Devon,  342. 
Cadyngton.     See  Caddington. 
Caen    [Normandy,    dep.    Calvados], 
225. 

,  proctors    of     abbess    of,    in 

England,  386. 
Cailly,  Cayly,  Kailly,  Adam,  85. 

,  Margaret  de,  45. 

,  Robert,  459. 

Caistor,  Castre  [co.  Norfolk],  parson 

of.  See  Norreys,  Simon. 
Calais,  Caleys  [France],  11,  74,  126, 
154,  161,  169,  170,  177,  188, 
192,  213,  214,  227,  302,  390, 
399,  414,  423,  426,  434,  456, 
467,  516,  525. 

,    arratxgements    for    posting 

the  king's  messages  from,  505. 

,  captain   of,    300,    418,    505. 

See  also  Bello  Campo,  Roger 
de  ;  Lescrope,  Henry  ;  Tam- 
worth,  Nicholas  de. 

,  echevinage  of,  306. 

governor  of,  304,  305. 

,  mayors  of,  22.5,  304,  305. 

,  mint  at,  303-306. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  master  of,  304.   See  also 

Malepilys,  Bardet  de. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  wardens  of,  304,  305. 

,    peace    made    at,     36,     38, 

269. 

,  purveyance  of  victuals   for, 

33,  212. 

,  searchers  in  port  of,  227,  525 

,  ship  of,  226. 

,  staple  of,  11,  193,  241,  399, 

409,  414,  434. 

,  the     king's     floot     between 

Dover  and,  32. 


650 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Calais — cont. 

troasuror  of,  304,  305,  418, 

505.       See     also     Gimthorp, 

William  de  ;  Romeseye,  John. 
Caldecoto     [in     Newport     Pagnoll, 

CO.  Buckingham],  593. 
Calder,     Caldra    [co.     Cumborland], 

abbot  of,  262. 
CaldweUe,  Simon  de,  356. 
Caleys.    See  Calais. 
Callaley,    Cahile    [in   Wliittingliam], 

CO.     Northumberland,     deed 

dated  at,  87. 

,  manor  of,  87. 

Callerton,  High,  Calverdon  Valence 

[in  Ponteland],  co.  Northiim- 

berland,  46. 
Calne,  brother  William,  422. 
Calton   [in   BakeweU  ?],    co.   Derby, 

509. 
Calule.     See  Callaley. 
Calverdon   Valence.     See  Callerton. 
Calvyley,  Hugh  do,  knight,  484. 
camaca  blue,  325,  329. 
Cambervvell,   co.    Surrey,   Hatcham, 

Hacchesham  in,  55,  56. 
Cambridge      Cantebrigge,      Caunte- 

brigge   [co.  Cambridge],    179, 

180,282. 

bailiffs  of,  483. 

,  biu"gess    of,    in    parliament, 

299. 

,  mayor  of,  483. 

,    scholars    of   university   of, 

180. 
Cambridge,  Cantabrigge, Cantebrigge, 

county  of,   66,   70,   341,   445, 

582. 

,  coroners  of,  9,  221,  236,  490. 

,  escheators  in.     See  Brough- 

ton,    Jolin  ;     Olneye,    John ; 

Pappeworth,     William      de  ; 

Sewale,    Thomas ;     Styuecle, 

Nicholas. 
,  guardians  of  the  peace  and 

justices  of  oyer  and  terminer 

in,  47. 
,  .  .  .  .,  clerk  of.  (See  Wetheres- 

feld,  John  de. 

,  justices  of  assize  in,  466. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  101, 

289,  299,  316,  476,  612. 
.sheriff  of,  9,  116,  177,   179, 

181,  194,  209,  221,  236,  299, 

476,  490,  504,  584,  585,  591. 
Cambridge,  Cantebrigge,  earl  of.    See 

Edm\md. 
Cameswell,  John,  parson  of    Bergh- 

ton,  479. 
Cammel,  William,  clerk,  425. 


Camoys,    Hugh,    knight,    196,    330, 

333,  542,  543,  551. 
Margaret    wife   of   Thomas, 

405. 

,  Ralph  son  of  Tkomas,  407. 

,  Thomas,  Thomfis  de,  knight, 

HI,  405,  407. 
,  ....    son  of    John,  knight, 

407. 
Campion,  Walter,  of  Harlow,  568. 

Cf.  Champion. 

Camps.      See  Castle  Camps,    Shudy 

Camps. 
Campsall,  Campsale  [co.  York],  579. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  579. 

,  Neusom  in,  471. 

Campsey    Ash,    Assh,     co.    Suffolk, 

manor  of,  46. 
Cane,  John  de,  332. 

Cf.  Cave. 

Caneford,  George  de,  192. 
Canewdon,    Canewedon,    co.    Essex, 

Apton,  Aperton  in,  408. 

,  Pudsey,  Podeshethe  in,  492. 

Canleye,  Joan  de,  damsel  of  consort 

of  John  de  Moubray,  159. 
Caruiock,   Camiok  forest,    co.   Staf- 
ford, 137. 
Canons  Ashby.     See  Ashby. 
Cantabrigge,  Cantebrigge.    See  Cam- 
bridge. 
Cantebrugge,    Cantebrigge,  Ivo     de, 

584. 
,  John    de,    chamberlain     of 

London,  143,  210. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  London,  480. 

Cf.  Caumbrigge. 

Cantelee.     See  Cantley. 
Cantelowe.     See  Cantilupo. 
Canterbmy,  co.  Kent,  412,  461. 
,  archbishop    of.      See   Lang- 
ham,      Simon  ;      Whittlesey, 

William. 
,  .  .  .  . ,   bailiff  of.     See  Top- 

clyf,  William. 
,  service  of  doing  suit 

at  palace  of,  165. 
,  bailiffs    of,    115,    389,    410, 

483,     505.       See     also     Baa, 

Nicholas       de ;         Comubia, 

WiUiam  de. 
,  cardinal  of.     See  Langham, 

Simon. 

,  chancery  at,  459,  484. 

,  Christ  Church,  prior  of,  146. 

,  .  . .  . ,    ....   and  chapter  of, 

83,  203,  462,  586. 
,  citizens  of,    in   parliament, 

297,  613. 
deeds  dated  at,  459. 


GENERAL 


Oantoi'bury — cont. 

diocoso  of,  251. 

farm  of,  410. 

,  lodging  of  tho  chaiicollor  at, 

461. 

,  niaj'or  of,  115. 

,    official    of    archdeacon    of, 

478. 

,  ....  of  court  of,  21, 

province  of,    147,    168,    190, 

244,  249,  261,  262,  392,  403, 
588. 

, ,       convocation       of 

clorgy  of,  286,  587,  588. 

,  St.  Augustine's  abbt  y,  abbot 

of,  84,  204,  462,  463,  587. 

,    St.    Gregory's   priory,    461. 

,  subui'b  of,  412. 

Cantilupo,  Cantelowe,  Joan  wife  of 
Nicholas  de,  knight,  252. 

,  John  de,  600. 

Nicholas  son  of  William  de, 

252. 

,  William  bx'other  of  Nicholas 

de,  252. 
Cantley,  Cantelee,  co.  Norfolk,  manor 

of,  570. 
canvass,  canavace,  325,  329. 
Canjaiges,  John,  408. 

,  Susan  wife  of  John,  408. 

,  Thomas  son  of  Jolm,  408. 

,  William,  merchant  of  Bristol, 

30,  169. 

,  . . . . ,  of  Gloucestersliire,  317. 

Capcy,  Richard,  356. 

,  Robert,  356. 

Capel,  William,  chaplain,  479. 
Caperoun,  Henry,  475. 

,  John,  444. 

,  William    son    of    John,    of 

Reed,  73,  444. 
Capoim,  John,  563,  576. 
Caprich',  Peter  son  of  Robert,  592. 
Capriston  [co.  Pembroke],  592. 

,  deed  dated  at,  592. 

Car,  Kar,  Henry  del,  528. 

,  Richard,  of  Langley  Marsh, 

428. 
Carbonell,     John,     parson     of     St. 

Stephen,  Exeter,  385. 
Carcroft  [in  Owston,  co.  York],  471. 
Ceu-dell,  Richard,  of  Iver,  571. 
Cardington,    KerdjTigton,    co.    Bed- 
ford, manor  of,  563. 
Cardoim,  Richard,  67. 
Cardoyll,  John,  543. 
Careby  [co.  Lincoln],  manor  of,  458. 

,  parson     of.       See     Cateby, 

John  do. 
Caresbroko.    See  Carisbrook. 


INDEX.  651 

Careswelle,  Peter  do,  knight,  193. 
,   ....     son    of    William    do, 

knight,  430. 
Carham,  co.  Northumberland,  Min- 

drum,  Myndrom  and  Presson, 

Pressefnn  in,  448. 
Carisbrook,   Caresbroke   Castle,   Tsle 

of  Wiglit,  constable  of,  483. 
Carleol.      See   Carlisle. 
Carles,  Emma  wife  of    William,  92. 

,  Wilham,  92. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Salop,  101. 

Cf.  Chai-les. 

Carleton  [co.  Norfolk],  607. 

See  Carlton. 

Carleton,  Henry,  324. 

,  Jolin,  John  de,  of  Berldiamp- 

stead,  545. 

, ,   of  Norfolk,    607. 

son  of  Walter  de,  91, 

190. 

,  Philip  de,  598. 

,  Wilham  de,  534. 

Cf.  Charleton. 

Carlisle,   Carleol,   Karliol,   co.   Cum- 
berland, 134,  236. 

,  bailiffs  of,  52,  482. 

,  bishop    of.      See    Appleby, 

Thomas  de. 
,  citizen    of,    in    parliament, 

299. 

diocese  of,  262. 

,  exchequer  of,  124. 

,  mayor  of,  482. 

,  prison  at,  6,  134,  371. 

Carlow,    Caterlagh,    Catherlach    [co. 

Carlow],  Ireland,  265. 

,  castle  and  lordsliip  of,  530. 

Ceirlton    (by    Snaith),    Carleton    by 

Snayth,  co  York,  91,  190, 
assignment  of    dower 

at,  91,  92,  190. 

haU  of,  91. 

,  manor  of,  513. 

,  places    named  in,   92, 

190. 

,  public  lane  of,  91. 

,  Castle,  Castle  Carleton,  co. 

Lincoln,  205. 
,  .  .  .  . ,   assignment  of  dower 

at,  204,  205,  206. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  fair  at,  205. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  204. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  places  named  in,  204, 

205. 
Colville,   Carleton,    co.   Suf- 
folk, manor  of,  46. 
Ciu-Ueu,  Carleton   Curly,  co 

Leicester,  24. 


662 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


Carlton — coiU. 

East,   Carleton   [co.   North- 
ampton],   610. 
,  Great  [co.  Lincoln],  parson 

of,  205. 
lo     Moorland,    Carloton    by 

Basyngham,  co.  Lincoln,  397, 

398. 

,  coiut  of,  397. 

,  Little,  Carloton  by  Newerk 

[in  Soutli  Muskliam,  co.  Not- 
tingham], 548. 
Carmarthen,    Kermerdyn    in   Wales 

[co.  Carmarthen],  lordsliip  of, 

520. 

,  mayor  and  bailiffs  of,  65. 

staple  of,  121,  368. 

Cameles,    Charnels,    Karncls,    John, 

escheator    in    Northampton- 
shire, 274,  367,  374,  379,  417. 

,  .  .  .  .,  ....  in  Rutland,  397. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  of  Warwickshire,  324. 

Carpenter,  Gilbert  the,  205,  372. 

,  Steplien,  309. 

Carpentras,     Carpentrace     [France, 

dep.  Vauclu.se],  bishop  of,  456. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the  pope's  envoy,  387. 

carpets,  maldng  of  the  king's,  41. 
Carreu,  Carru,  John,  569. 

,  Leonard  de,  247,  248,  250. 

,  Nicholas,  Nicholas  de,  341- 

344,  347,  450,  540,  544,  577, 

598. 
,  . . . . ,   keeper   of   the  privy 

seal,  321,  424,  445,  461,  573, 

578,  597. 
,  .  .  .  . ,    son    of   Nicholas    de, 

341,  342. 
, ,    the   elder,    427,    465, 

541. 

,  Reymond  de,  341. 

,  Thomas  son  of  Leonard  de, 

248,  341. 
Carshalton,  Cressalton,  Karsaulton, 

Kersalton,    co.    Surrey,    427, 

541,  598. 

,  deed  dated  at,  542. 

,  manor  of,  427,  541. 

Carsxir,    Richard,    bm-gess    of    Lost- 

withiel    in    parliament,    290, 

298. 
Cartar,  John  le,  351. 
Cartere,  William  le,  108. 
Cartwrith,  Richard  son  of  Roger,  356. 
Caruaill,  Caniell,  John,  73,  87. 
Cary.     See  Castle  Cary. 
Cary,  John,  John  de,  342,  599. 

,  WiUiam,  599. 

Caryng,  Jolm,  349. 
Cas,  Hugh,  385. 


Casow^k.     See  Ctic>\\ick. 
Cashel,  Cassell  [co.  Tipperary],  Ire- 
land,    archbishop     of.       See 

Torrington,  Philip  do. 
Cassio,  Caysho,  Kaisho,  Kaysho  [in 

Watford],  co.  Hertford,   315. 
Cassy,  John,  569. 

,   the  younger,  436,  437. 

,  Tliomas,    of    Hadsor,     108, 

109. 
Castel.    See  Castle  Farm,  Castle  Hill. 
Castel,  Castell,  Castello,  George  de, 

472. 

,  Griffin,  chaplain,  447,  448. 

,  Isabel,   of   London,   calster, 

.535. 

,  John  atto,  335,  492,  493. 

Castelacro,  William,  587. 
Castolbitham.     See  Bytham. 
Castelcary.    See  Castle  Cary. 
Castelcombe.     See  Castle  Combe. 
Castelhall.    See  Castle  Hall. 
Castell.     See  Castel. 
Castelle.     See  Castile. 
Castello.     See  Castel. 
Castelryiig.     See  Castlering. 
Castolwyke.     See  Castle  Hill. 
Casterton,  Great,  Brigcasterton  [co. 

Rvitland],  advowson  of,   160. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  Woodliead,  Wodheved 

in,  160. 
,  Little  [co.  Rutland],  Pliihp 

parson  of,  575. 
Castile,  Castelle  [Spain],  king  of.    See 

Henry  II,  Jolm  duke  of  Lan- 
caster. 
,  merchants,  shipmasters  and 

seamen    of,    at    Bruges,    112, 

113. 

,  realm  of,  112. 

Castle  Ashby.     See  Ashby. 
Castle  Bjiiham.     See  Bytham. 
Castle  Camps,  co.  Cambridge,  Wes- 

toe,  Westhoo  in,  493. 
Castle  Carleton.     See  Carlton. 
Castle  Cary,  Castelcary,  co.  Somerset, 

manor  of,  367. 
Castle  Combe,  Castelcombe,  Chastel- 

combe,  co.  Wilts,  175. 
,  parson    of.       See   Hemyng, 

William. 
Castle  Farm,  Castel  in  Shiffnal,  co. 

Salop,  415. 
Castle  Hall,  Castelhall  [in  Middleton], 

CO.  Norfolk,  manor  of,  560. 
Castle    Hedingham.        See    Heding- 

hara. 
Castle    Hill,    Castehvyke    [in    Great 

Torrington],  co.  Devon,  342. 
?  Castel,  fee  in,  523. 


GE^'ERAL    IXDEX. 


653 


Castlering,  Castclryng  [in  Louth,  co. 
Louth],  Ireland,  manor  of, 
164. 

Castle  Soworby.    See  Sowerby. 

castles  in  Wales,  fortification  of,  61, 
62,  ir)8. 

Caston,  Adam,  324. 

Cf.  Caiiston. 

Cast  re.     See  Caistor. 

Castro,  Bartliolomew,  Bartholomew 
de,  227,  :}23. 

,  Simon  de,  clerk,  422. 

Cf.  Cestre,  Chostre. 

Castruni  MatilV.     See  Painscastlo. 

Caswick,  Casewj'k  [in  Uffington],  co. 
Lincoln,  54. 

Catangre.     See  Catlianger. 

Catcliffo,  Catclif  [co.  York],  417. 

Gate,  Henry,  356. 

Cateby,  Jolin  de,  parson  of  Caroby, 
458. 

Caterlagh.     See    Carlow. 

Cateryk.     See  Catterick. 

Catesby,  John,  John  de,  74,  85,  430, 
546. 

,   ....,  knight,  79. 

,  William  de,  74,  85. 

,  escheator  in  Leicester- 
shire, 1,  2,  60,  125. 

,  .  .  . in  Warwick- 
shire, 23,  126,  147. 

, ,  knight,  79. 

Catestok.     See  Cattistock. 

Catewy,  Tlionms,  391,  392. 

Catlianger,  Catangi-o  [in  Fivehead, 
CO.  Somerset],  474, 

Catherlach.     See  Carlow. 

Catoui',  William,  burgess  of  Reading 
in  parliament,  298. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Reading,  82. 

Catterick,  Cateryk  [co.  York],  Eller- 
ton  in,  459. 

Cattistock,  Catestok,  co.  Dorset, 
104. 

,  Northcroft  in,  104. 

Catton,  CO.  York,  Kexby  in,  59. 

Cavmibrigge,  IMargaret  wife  of 
Thomas  de,  98. 

,  Thomas  de,  97,  98. 

Cf.  Cantebrugge. 

Canmpe,  John,  of  Donyngliam, 
537. 

Camnpeden,  Jolm,  collector  of  sub- 
sidy, 527. 

Caunfare.     See  Korsor. 

Cauntebrigge.      See   Cambridge. 

Caimterbm-y,  Richard,  parson  of 
Charleton,  555,  556,  558. 

Caimton,  co.  Nottingham,  Ivnap- 
thorpe  in,  509. 


Caus,  Thomas,  of  Plockham,  escheat- 
or in  Norfolk,   274,  358,   359, 

372,  375,  376,  379,  383,  396, 

412. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in   Suffolk, 

272,  358,  375,  389.  412,  415. 
Cau.ser  in  Seland.     Sec  Korsor. 
Causton.     See  Cawstoh. 
Causton,  Henry,  citizen  of  London, 

478. 

,  Roger,  323. 

Cf.  Caston. 

Cauxton.     See  Caxton. 

Cavakant,     Aungel,     merchant     of 

Florence,  216. 
Cave,  John  de,  of  Middleton,  491. 

Cf.  Cane. 

Cavendish,  Cavendissli,  co.  Suffolk, 

Greyeshalle  in,  389. 
Cavendissh,  John,  John  de,  390,  486. 
,   .  .  .  .,  chief  justice  of  pleas 

before  the  king,  402,  416,  463, 

480,  528,  538,  587. 
,  . . . . ,  justice  of  the  Common 

Bench,  390. 
,....,    ....    to    hold    pleas 

before  the  king,  405,  413,  491, 

500,  594,  608. 

, ,  knight,  532. 

,  .  .  . . ,  merchant  of  London, 

404. 
Cawode,  Jolm  de,  of  York,  butcher, 

449. 
Cawston,     Causton     [co.     Norfolk], 

parson     of.       See     Pieshale, 

John  de. 
Caxton,   CO.    Cambridge,   manor   of, 

411. 
Caxton,  Cauxton,  Maurice  de,   187, 

582. 
Cayly.     See  Cailly. 
Cayner.     See  Gayner. 
Caysho.     See  Cassio. 
Cajiion,  Robert  de,  332. 
Celer,  Jolm  brother  of  Jolin  son  of 

Richard  atte,  190,  294. 
,  ....   son  of    Richard  atte, 

citizen  of  London,  190,  294. 
Cely,  Conan,  275. 

Cf.  Sely. 

Cergeaux,  Richard,  271, 

Cerise,     See  Zierickzee. 

Certeseye.     See  Chertsey. 

Cestre.     See  Chester. 

Cestre,  Alice  wife  of  John  de,  142. 

,  Lamf ranc  Teste  de,  seaman 

of  Grenoa,  509. 

Cf.  Castre,  Chostre. 

Cestreton.     See  Chesterton. 
Cetlesworth,  Andrew,  533. 


654 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Chabliam,  Tliomas  de,  escheator  in 

Essex,  2G3. 
Chaconibo,    Chaiicombe   priory    [co. 
Northampton],  219,  220. 

,  founder  of.    See  Cliaucoiube, 

Hugh  de. 

,    prior    of.      See    Kegworth, 

Henry  de. 

,  Koger  prior  of,  220. 

,  vacancy  of,  219. 

Chaddesdon.Chattesden,  Grcoffroy  de, 
brotlior  of  St.  Lazarus  of 
JeriLsaleni,  master  of  Burton 
Lazars  liospital,  433. 

, cliaplain,  432,  437,  438. 

,  .  .  . . ,  clerk,  550. 

Nicholas,  Nicholas  do,  clerk, 

550,  551. 

,....,    .  .  .  . ,  of    Derbyshire, 

426. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  king's  clerk  and  envoy, 

314. 
Cliaddeslo,  Richard  de,  clerk,  75. 
Chaddesley  Corbet,  Cliaddeslo  Corbet 
[co.  Worcester],  advowson  of, 
108,  454. 

,  manor  of,  108.  109,  468. 

Chaderton,  Henry  de,  230. 

Jolm  de,  230, 

,  Katherine  wife  of  John  de, 

230. 
Chadgrave.    See  Chedgrave. 
Chaffare,  Jolin,  butcher,  449. 
Chageford,  Jolux  de,  parson  of  North 

Cadbm-y,  86. 
Chainel,  William,  William  de,  99. 
Chalfont    St.    Giles,    Chalflumte   St. 
Giles,   CO.   Buckingham,   514. 
Chalgi-ovo,    Clialgi-ave,    co.    Oxford, 
341,  343,  344,  347,  450,    555, 
556. 
Chalke,  Broad,   co.  Wilts,  Gurston, 

Gerardeston  in,  344. 
Cliallow,     West,     Westchaulo,     co. 

Berks,  370. 
Clialoims,  Robert,  342. 
Clialton  [in  Toddington  ?],  co.  Bed- 
ford, manor  and  advowson  of 
chapel  of,  48. 
Chalueston,  Jolm  de,  clerk,  454. 
Chamberlayu,  Chamberleyn,  Chaum- 
berlajTi,  Chaumberleyn. 

Edward,  rector  of  Barley.  338. 

,  John,  of  Emberton,   566. 

,  ....  son  of  John,  of    Great 

Gaddesden,  74. 
,  ....  son  of  Robert  de  Bar- 
ton of   Kent  otherwise  called, 
100,  110. 
,  PliiUp,  445,  493,  565. 


Chamberlayn — cont. 

Kicliard,  chaplain,  444. 

,  citizen    of    Loudon, 

246,  266. 

kniglit,  309. 

Steijhon,     burgess     of     Lis- 

keard  in  parhament,  298. 

,  Thomas,  597. 

,  kniglit,  587, 

,  WiUiam,  of  Harlow,  568, 

Chambornoun,  Chauinbernoun, 

Eleanor  wife  of  Thomas,  84. 

,  Richard,  86. 

son  of  Thomas,  84. 

,  Thomas,  Thomas  de,  es- 
cheator in  Devonshire,  31,  34, 
159,  161,  202,  235,  259,  339, 
342,  357,  522. 

,   .  .  .  .,  lord  of  Modbury,  84. 

Chambre,  Chaiunbre,  Elizabeth  wife 
of  John  del,  238. 

,  John    del,     of     Newcastle- 

upon-TjTxe,  238. 

,  Roger  de  la,  431. 

,  Thomas  del,  of  London,  281, 

William  de  la,  366. 

Chamjiayn,  Robert,  596. 

Chami^enej's,  Chaiutipeneys,  Elizei- 
beth  wife  of  Gilbert,  96,  97, 
279    359. 

,  Gilbert!  96,  97,  279,  359,538. 

,  .  .  . .,  merchant,  440,  441. 

,  John,  332. 

Champion,  John,  burgess  of  Dor- 
chester in  parliament,  298. 

Cf.  Campion. 

chancellor,  procedure  at  death  of.  445. 

See  Knyvet,  John ;  Thorp, 

Robert ;  Wykeham,  William 
de, 
chancery,  10,  14,  17,  18,  20,  22,  23, 
28,  42,  45,  47,  50,  59,  77,  78, 
87,  94,  106,  114,  116,  120,  134, 
138,  140,  152,  157,  163,  165, 
175.  177,  190,  192,  201,  218, 
228,  240,  242,  244,  249,  250, 
271,  277,  279,  281-283,  288, 
291,  292,  295,  307,  312,  314, 
320-322,  324,  326-328,  330, 
331,  346,  365,  366,  383,  384, 
388,  426,  427,  429,  435,  436, 
442,  446,  449,  453,  457,  459, 
465,  467-471,  474,  475,  477, 
478,  480,  481,  483,  484,  486, 
495,  497,  501,  502,  507,  516, 
527,  529,  531,  533,  535,  539- 
542,  545-547,  552,  559,  562, 
578-580,  583-585,  591,  592, 
594-596,  599,  600,  605-608, 
610,   611. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


655 


chancery — coni. 

cancellations  in,  15,  153,  280, 

360,  432,  524. 

,  caiLso  in,  608. 

,  charters  broken  up  in,  514. 

clerks  of,  287,  484.  502.    See 

also  Bnrstall,  William  de  ; 
Melton,  Robert  de;  Mirfeld, 
William  ;  I'ower,  Walter  ; 
Ravenser,  Richard  do ; 
S])aip;n(^  Nicholas  ;  T^Twhit, 
William. 

,  livery  of,  136. 

,  court  (placea)  of,  287,  445. 

,  deeds  acknowledged  in,   66, 

75,  79,  80,  106,  182,  193,  296, 
335,  337,  440,  448,  4.52,  453, 
455,  457-459,  461,  465,  472, 
532,  551,  564,  566,  568,  569, 
573,  581,  585,  588,  592,  593, 
598,  610. 

,  enrolments  in,  4,  40,  45,  49, 

51,  56,  60,  62,  69,  73,  119, 
125,    131,    133,    140-142,    144, 

151,  156,  159,  160,  166,  181, 
232,  235,  318,  340,  358,  368, 
370,  382,  395,  412,  413,  432, 
438,  498,  511,  512,  522,  528, 
632,  581. 

,  Scottish,  63. 

estreats  of,  34,  322. 

,  files  of,  308,  33.S,  336,  422. 

judgments  in,  391,  502,  594. 

keeper   of   the   lianaper   of. 

See    Ravenser,    Richard    de  ; 

Tlioresby,  Richard  de. 
king's  clerk  dwelling  in.    See 

Treton,  Richard  de. 
,  matters  certified  in,  1,  3,  4, 

7,   10,  14-16,    18,  20,   25,  26, 

28-33,  45,  53,   114,    118,   129, 

152,  164,  165,  178,  188,  201, 
203,  207,  210,  212,  218,  219, 
226,  230,  231,  238,  240,  248, 
254,  262,  275,  276,  278,  280, 
296,  322,  325,  326,  329,  338, 
345,  348,  357,  372,  373,  383, 
386,  389,  410,  414,  415,  417, 
435,  436,  439,  467,  480,  481, 
485,  486,  501,  507,  509,  517, 
519,  521,  522,  525,  526,  528, 
530,  571,  588,  595,  606,  611. 

,  plea  in,  147. 

,  process  in,  525. 

,  recognisances    in,    72,     322, 

450,  473,  474,  478. 

,  rolls  of,  5,  35,  167,  507,  521. 

,  ....,   keeper    of,  514.      See 

also    Burstall,    William    de  ; 

Wollore,  David  de. 


chancery — cont. 

,  writs  of,  4,  107,  317. 

Sec  also  Inland. 

Chandeler,  Cliavmdelcr,  Roger,  595. 

,  Thomas,  of  Dickleburg}i,378. 

William,    of    Sittingboumo. 

200. 

Cliaiinel  Islands,  keeper  of.  See 
Huwet,  Walter. 

chantries,  108. 

,  maintenance  of,  240. 

See  also  Bristol,  Hunting- 
don, Layer  Mamy,  London 
(places  named),  Maxey,  Norton 
Bavant,  Ripon,  Strood,  Tor- 
rington,  Winterboume. 

Chanu,  Jolm,  of  Colinworth,  577. 

Chapel  alias  Bryhtlyngesbrigge.  co. 
Essex,  fee  in,  492. 

Chapman,  Chepman,  Alice  wife  of 
Benedict,  331. 

,  Benedict,  331. 

John,  205,  466. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  burgess  of  Seaford  in 

parliament,  297. 

,  Robert,  of  Dunmow,  509. 

,  Thomas,  466. 

Cheurdstock,  Cherdestoke  [co.  Dorset], 
prebendary  of.  See  Cheyne, 
John. 

Charefeld.     See  Charfield. 

Chareman,  John,  98. 

Charenchous,  John,  80. 

Charfield,  Cliarefeld  [co.  Gloucester], 
Nicholas  rector  of,  421. 

Charlbury  [co.  Oxford],  80. 

Charles  V,  king  of  France,  192,  386, 
563. 

son  of  John  king  of  France, 

93,  460. 

Charles,  Richard,  99. 

,  . . . . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Kent,  611. 

Cf.  Carles. 

Charleton,  parson  of.  See  Caimter- 
bury,  Richard. 

Charleton,  Chcrleton,  Cherlton,  Jolin, 
John  de,  105,  536. 

,   .  .  .  .,  lord  of  Powis,  158. 

, ,  of  Powis,  464,  587. 

,  Lewis  de,  bisliop  of  Here- 
ford, 89,  144. 

,  Robert  de,  335,  533. 

,  William  de,  89. 

Cf.  Carleton. 

Charlton,  Charleton  in  Tyndale  [in 
Bellingham],  co.  Northumber- 
land, 296. 

by    Dover,    Cherleton,    co. 

Kent,  272,  273. 


G5G 


CIENEllAl-    INDEX. 


Charlton — cont. 

[by  Malmosbury],   Chorlton, 

CO.  Wilts,  175. 
Charnels.    See  Canieles. 
Cham  wood,  co.  Leicester,  waste  of, 

351. 
charter  party,  301. 
Charti>seye.    See  Cherteseye. 
Charwelton  [co.  Nortliampton],  par- 
son of.    /See  Wei  ford,  Roger  de. 
Charwolton,  Robert,  6G. 
Chastelbitham.     See  Bj-tham. 
Chastelcombe.    »See  Castle  Combe. 
Chaterice.    See  Chatteris. 
Chatham,  Little,  co.  Kent,  465. 
Chatsvvorth,  Chattesworth  [in  Eden- 

sor],  CO.  Derby,  509. 
Chattenemersch.    See  Chitney  marsh. 
Chatteris,  Chaterice  [co.  Cambridge], 

376. 
Chattesden.     See  Chaddesden. 
Chattesworth.     See  Cliatsworth. 
Chaucombe.     See  Chacombe. 
Chaucombe,    Hugh    de,    founder    of 

Chacombe  priory,  219. 
ChaumberlajTi,  Chaumberleyn.     See 

Cliamberlayn. 
Chaumbemoun.     See  Chambernoun. 
Chamnbre.     See  Chambro. 
Chaumont,  Chamnon,  John,  justice 

to  observe  and  keep  rivers  in 

Yorkshire    and    Lincoln.shire, 

163. 

,  .  .  .  .,  laiight,  511. 

.......  .  .  . .,  sheriff  of  Yorkshire,  6. 

,     Katherine    wife    of    Jolui, 

511. 
Chaumpeneys.     See  Champeneys. 
Chauncers,  John,  knight,  586. 
Chaunceux,  Margery  wife  of  Thomas, 

408. 

,  Thomas,  408. 

Chavmcy,  William,  109. 
Chaundeler.      See   Chandeler. 
Chavmdos,  Elizabeth  sister  of  John, 

597. 

,  John,  knight,  597. 

,  Roger,  442. 

,  Thomas,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Hereford,  289,  298,  316. 
Chatmgeotir,  Adam,  323. 
Chavmtecler,  Thomas,  599. 
Chauntemarle,    John,     104. 
Chaureth,  Chaur'.     See  Broxted. 
Chavanhac.      Bertrand    de,    knight, 

456. 
Chaworth,      Margaret      mother      of 

WllHam    de,    567,    568,    570, 

571. 
,  Thomas  de,  506. 


Chaworth — cont. 

,  William  son  of  Thomas  de, 

the  younger,  son  of    Thomas 

son    of    Thomas    de,    knight, 

506.  566-568,  570,  571. 
Chayne.     »See  Chejme. 
Cheal.     See  Grosberton  Cheal. 
Cheddeworth.     See  Chedworth. 
Choddington,  Clu^dyndon  [co.  Buck- 
ingham], 447,  448. 
Cheddre,  Robert,  288. 

Cf.  Cliidder. 

Chedgi-avo,  Chadgrave,  co.  Norfolk, 

manor  of,  379. 
Chedworth,  Cheddcworth  [co.  Glou- 
cester], manor  of,  124. 
ChedjTidon.     See  Choddington. 
Chedjnidon,  John  de,  447.  448. 
Chedyok,  John,  knight  of  tho  shire  of 

Dorset,  100. 
cheese,  152. 

,  rent  of,  97. 

Cheigny.    See  Cheyne. 
Choile.     See  Cosberton  Cheal. 
Cliekewell.    See  Chigwell. 
Chelescombe,  Alan  de,  82. 
Clielfham,  John  de,  34. 
Chelmsford,  Chelmersford,  Chelmes- 

ford,  CO.  Essex,  deed  dated  at, 

89. 
,  Bexfield   in,    Bekeswell   by, 

597. 

,  Moulsham,  Mulsham,  597. 

Chelrey,  Edmund,  Edmund  de,  312. 
,  ....,  justice  to  hold  pleas 

before  the  king,  admission  of, 

254. 

, ,  knight,  370. 

,  . .  .  . ,  learned  in  the  law,  59. 

,  . .  .  . ,  the  king's  Serjeant,  70. 

,  Margaret  sister  of  Edmund 

de,  371. 

,  Thomas  de,  572. 

Chelreye.  See  Childrey. 
Chelseyo.  See  Cholsey. 
Chelsfield,  Chelsfeld,  co.  Kent,  parson 

of.    See  Bentele,  John  de. 
Chelton,  Ralph  de,  the  son,  knight, 

564. 

Cf.  Chilton. 

Chelveston,  co.  Northampton,  manor 

of,  500. 
Chene.    See  Cheyne. 
Chepman.    See  Chapman. 
Chepstow,  Strugull  [co.  Monmouth], 

castle  and  lordship  of,  376. 
Chepyng  Lamboiu-ne,   Chepjniglam- 

bourne.     See  Lambom'n. 
Chepyngtoriton,       Chepyngtoryton. 

See  Torrington. 


GEXERAL    INDEX. 


mi 


Clierche.    See  Clurch. 
Chordostoko.      See   Cliardstock. 
Cherhill,  Cliiriel,  co.  Wilts,  manor  of, 

128. 
Chcriton    Bishop,  co.  Devon,    Hay- 

laki>,  Hillake  in,  523. 
Fitzjiaino,     Churiton,   Chiir- 

ton,  Cliuryton   Fitzpayn    [co. 

Devon],  fee  in,  33y,  357,  523. 
,  Stockleigh  Luccombe, 

Westloccombe  in,  523. 
Cherl,  John,  87. 
Cherleton,  Cherlton.     See  Charleton, 

Charlton. 
Cherry  Hinton.     See  Hinton. 
Chertesoye,    Cliarteseye,     John    de, 

344. 

,  .  .  . . ,  of  Askern,  579. 

Chertsey,  Certeseye,  Cherteseye,  co. 

Surrey,  abbot  of,  190,  497. 

,  Jolin  abbot  of,  148. 

,  monk  of.    See  Foxley,  Wil- 
liam do. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,  148. 

,  voidance  of,  148. 

,  William  abbot  of,  148. 

Chese,  Thomas,  318. 
Chesenliale,  Robert  de,  172. 
Chesewj'k.     See  Chiswick. 
Chesham,  co.  Buckingham,  272. 

,  deed  dated  at,  70. 

,  manor  of,  70,  272. 

Chesham,  Richard  de,   70. 
Chester,  Cestre  [co.  Chester],  monk 

of.    See  Morston,  William  de. 
,  Chestre  upon  the  Water  [in 

Irchester],  co.  Northampton, 

manor  of,  76,  77. 
Chester,  Cestre,  earl  of.    See  Edward. 
Chester,    county   of,   exemption   of, 

from  subsidy,  248. 
,  lordship    of    the    prince    of 

Wales  in,  520. 
Chesterfeld,   Chestrefeld,   Adam  de, 

canon  of  St.  Stephen's  chapel 

in  Westminster  palace,    452. 

,  clerk,  85. 

,  Richard  de,  549. 

, ,  clerk,   95,  550. 

Chesterfield,  Chestrefeld  [co.  Derby], 

461. 

,  Hasland,  Haselond  in,  509. 

Chesterford.  Great,  co.  Essex,  manor 

of,  376. 
Chesterton.  385. 
,  Cestreton,      co.      Warwick, 

church  of,  240. 
Chestre.     See  Chester. 
Chestre,  William,  cook,  584. 
Cf.  Castre,  Cestre. 


Chestrefeld.  See  Chesterfeld,  Chester- 
field. 

Chotowynd,  William  de,  knight,  94. 

Chetwode,  John  do,  ciiaplain,  81. 

ohevage  of  grooms,  205. 

Cheveley,  Chevole,  Chevolee,  co. 
Cambridge,  manor  of,  182, 
183,  184,  185. 

Cheverston,  Chevoreston,  John,  John 
de,  492,  493. 

knight,  83. 

Cheygny.     See  Cheyne. 

Chej^nduyt,  Emma  wife  of  Thomas, 
578. 

Cheyne,  Chayne,  Choigny,  Chene, 
CheygJiy,  Cheynj",  Edmund, 
eschcator  in  Dorsetshire  225, 
264,  358,  487. 

,  .........  in  Somersetshire, 

■  273,  360,  367,  388,  393,    414. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Somerset,  101. 

,  .  .  . . ,  sheriff  of  Somerset- 
shire, 218. 

,  Hugh,  80. 

,  Jolm,  604. 

,  . .  .  .,  knight,  315. 

,  .  . . . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Buckingham,  612. 

,....,    ....    of     Cambridge, 

101,  289,  316,  476,  612. 

,  .  .  . . ,  prebendary  of  Chard- 
stock  in  the  church  of  Salis- 
bury, 577,  578. 

Robert,  174,  175. 

,  . . . . ,    John     and    Richard, 

his  men,  174. 

,  Thomas,  161. 

,  .  . . . ,  escheator  in  Devon- 
shire, 34,  35. 

,  knight,  419,  430. 

,  William,  492. 

,  ....    brother    of     Thomeis, 

430. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  escheator  in  Dorset- 
shire, 12,  56,  135,  163,  253, 
255,  264. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Somersetshire, 

29,  31,  56,  62,  129,  135,  159, 
161,  163,  164,  202,  221,  254, 
267,  273,  282. 

Chiche.     See  St.  Osyth. 

Chicheridel.     See  St.  Clair's  Hall. 

Chichester,  Chichestre,  Cicestre  [co. 
Sussex],  bailiffs  of,  115,  201, 
264,  483. 

,  bishop      of.        See     Lenne, 

William  de ;  Reade,  William. 

,  bishopric    of,    temporalities 

of,  122,  267. 

CB  42 


658 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Chichester — cont. 

,  church  of,  probond  in,  267. 

citizens    of,    in    parhainent, 

297,  31G. 
,  collectors  and  controller  of 

customs  in,  150,  409. 

diocese  of,  252. 

mayor  of,  201,  264. 

,  port  of,  192. 

keepers  of  passage  in. 

449. 
Cliichestre,  John  do,  191,  321. 
,   .  . .  . ,  burgess  of  Molcombe 

Regis  in  parliament,  298. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  109. 

, maj-or  of  London,  143, 

276. 
,  . .  . . ,  .  .  . . ,  and  escheator  in 

London,  226. 
Chidder,  Robert,  151,  152. 

Cf.  Cheddre. 

Chiddingstone,   Chidyngston,   Chyd- 

yngston,  co.  Kent,  116,   182, 

183,  184,  185. 
Chiderle.     See  Chuderlegh. 
Chidyngston.     See  Chiddingstone. 
Chieveley,  Chivele,  co.  Berks,  597. 
Chigwell,     Chekewell     [co.     Essex], 

Neweloggelandes  in,  470. 
Chike,  William,  biirgess  of  Wareham 

in  parliament,  298. 
Cluld,  John,  coroner  of  co.  Bedford. 

235. 
.......  Katherine  daughter  of  Hugh 

le,  208. 

,  Stephen,  552. 

Childerlangeleye,     ChUdernelangelo. 

See  Langley,  King's. 
Childi'ey,  Chelreye  [co.  Berks],  parson 

of.     See  Shiltewode,  William 

de. 
Childs  Wickliam.     See  Wicklaam. 
Chillyngwode,  Isle  of  Wight,  manor 

of,  100. 
Chiltenham,  John  de,  of  Cirencester, 

servant  of,  413. 
Cliilterne,  Henry  de,  315. 
,  Maud  mother  of  Henry  de, 

de,  315. 
Chilton  [co.  Somerset],  348. 
[in  Wroughton],    co.    Wilts, 

163. 
Foliat,    Chylton,    C08.   Wilts 

and    Berks,    manor    of,    557, 

581. 

,  Leverton  in,    557,  581. 

Chilton,  Maud  daughter  of  John  de, 

163. 

,  Robert  de,  chaplain,  81. 

Cf.  Chelton. 


cliiminage,  212. 

Chingford,    Chyngoford,    co.    Essex, 

109. 

,  fisheries  in,  109. 

Chippenham,     co.     Wilts,    Stanley, 

Stanlay  abbey  in,   168. 
Cliipponhain,  VV^alter  do,  250. 
Chipping  Lambouni.    See  Laraboum. 
Chipstede,  John,  96. 
Chirch,  Chercho,  Hugh  atte,  322. 

,  John  atte,  349. 

,  Ste])hen  de,  clerk,  585. 

Chirchelench.     See  Church  Lench. 
Chircheton.     See  Churston. 
Chirchokle.     See  Oakley. 
Chirdestoke,  Edward  de,  clerk,  535. 
Chiriel.    See  Cherhill. 
Chirton,  co.  Wilts,  Conock,  Connok 

in,  556,  558. 
Cliiselden,  WiUiam  son  of  Greoffrey, 

597,  604,  605. 

Cf.  Chuselden. 

Chisenbury,  Chysebury  [in  Enford], 

CO.  Wilts,  40. 
Chishall,  Great,  Great  Chishull,  Chys- 

hull,  CO.  Essex,  338,  573. 
,  Cliishull,  Little  [co.  Essex], 

rector  of.     See  Crowe,  John. 
Chistock.     See  Churchstoke. 
Chiswack,  ChesexTyk  [co.  Middlesex], 

prebendary  of.  See  Maundour, 

John. 
Cliitney  marsh,  Chattenemersch  [in 

Iwade,  CO.  Kent],  279. 
Chitterne  All  Saints,  co.  Wilts,  deed 

dated  at,   335. 

manor  of,  334. 

Cliittle.     See  Chuteley. 
Chivele.     See  Cliieveley. 
Cholsey,  Chelseye  [co.  Berks],  602. 
Chorley,  Chorlegh,  co.  Lancaster,  355. 

,  assignment  of  dower  in,  355. 

,  places  named  in,  355. 

Chorley,  Chorle,  Chorlegh,  Chorleye, 

WiUiam  de,  233,  315. 
,  .  .  .  . ,    escheator    in    Lanca- 
shire, 141,  156,  160,  161,  169, 

230,  232,  233,  268,  269,  282, 

307,  355. 
,  imder -sheriff  of  Lan- 
cashire, 280,  307. 
Chosele,  Thomas  de,  78. 
Christianity,  court  of,  court    Cliris- 

tian,  21,  22,  478. 
Chi'istion,  Cristien,  Alan,  456. 

,  William,  355. 

Chuddelegh,  James  de,  393. 
Chuderlegh,       Chiderle,       Chyderle, 

Richard  de,  clerk,    146,    156. 
,  . . .  . ,  parson  of  MamhuU,  37, 


i 


GENERAL    IXDEX. 


659 


Chudloigh,  CO.  Devon,  Huxbcar, 
Hoiikosboaro  in,   393. 

churcli,  air  of,  poisoned,  438, 

ornaments,  381. 

Chiirchenian,  Churchemon,  John, 
525. 

,  William,  400. 

Chm"ch  Loncli,  Chirchelench,  oo. 
Worcester,  nomination  to 
cluirch  of,  454. 

Slioriffs  Lench,  Shirre- 

voslcncli  in,  108. 

Oakley.     See  Oakley. 

Churchstoke,  Cliistock,  cos,  Mont- 
gomery and  Salop,  42  i. 

,  Aldress,  Alderse  in,  421. 

Churiton.     See  Cheriton. 

Chnrston  Ferrers,  Chircheton,  co. 
Devon,  612. 

Chtirton,  Clnu-yton.    See  Cheriton. 

Chusedene,  WilHam,  578. 

Chuselden,  Richard,  knight  of  the 
sliiro  of  Devon,  476, 

Cf.  Chiselden, 

Chute,  Cluiyt,  co.Wilts,  manor  of, 214. 

Chuteley,  Clxittle  [co,  Hants],  hun- 
dred of,  83, 

Chuyt,     See  Chute, 

Chyderle,     See  Chuderlegli. 

ChydjTigston,    See  Cliiddingstone. 

Chyksond,  Henry,  610,  611, 

Chylton,     See  Cliilton, 

Cliymbeham,  Edmiuid  de,  593, 

ClijTnbweUus  de  Penrjni,  52. 

ChjTigeford,     See  Chingford, 

Chysebviry,     See  Chisenbury, 

Chyshull,     See  Chishall, 

Cicestre,     See  Cliichester. 

oider,  517. 

Cinque  Ports,  the,  436. 

,  armed  men  of,  384, 

,  barons  of,  25,  384, 

,  .  ,  ,  . ,  siunmoned  to  parUa- 

ment,  84,  204,  299,  587, 

liberties  of,  24,  25. 

,  mayor  and  jiu-ats  of,  25. 

sliips  supphed  by,  25,  370, 

384, 

,  taxation  of,  498, 

,  wardens  of.     See  Guldeford, 

Andrew         do  ;  Latimer, 

William ;  Pembrugge,  Richard 
de ;    Spigurnell,  Ralph. 

Cirencester,  Cirencestre  [co.  Glouces- 
ter], 413, 

Clacton,  Little,  Little  Claketon  [co, 
Essex],  425, 

,   , ,  .  . ,  deeds  dated  at,  426, 

Clairvaux  [France,  dep,  Aube],  abbot 
of,  44. 


Claisson,  Baldwin,  sliip-master,  412. 

Claketon.     See  Clacton, 

Claneford,  Walter  de,  573, 

Clapcot,  Clopcote,  co.  Berks,  561, 

,  deeds  dated  at,  559,  560. 

fisliory  at,  560,  562, 

Clapliam,  Clopliam,  co.'  Surn-y,  427. 

Claptes,  Joan  wife  of  William,  344, 

,  William,  344, 

Clare  [co,  Suffolk],  honour  of,  240, 
390, 

Clare,  Jolm  do,  coroner  of  co,  Worces- 
ter, 358, 

Cf.  Clere. 

Clareburgh,  Richard  de,  chaplain, 
98. 

Clarell,  William,  308. 

Clarence,  duke  of.     See  Lionel. 

Clarendon,  Claryudon  [co,  Wilts], 
letter  dated  at,  300, 

,   letters  close   dated   at,  147, 

148,  149,  150,  151,  192, 

park,  works  at,  39, 

,     .  .  .  . ,    controller     of. 

See  Wilton,  John  de, 

Claront,  Jolm,  knight,  487. 

Claryndon,     See  Clarendon. 

Clatford,  Clattesford,  Ralph,  250, 

Claver,  Ednnmd,  324, 

,  John,  of  Biu"y  St,  Edmunds, 

farmer  of  subsidy,  89,  423, 

Claverdon,  Claverton,  co,  Warwick, 
manor  of,  126. 

Clavering,  Ivnaverjnig  hundred,  co. 
Norfolk,  constable  of,  490. 

Claverley,  co.  Salop,  356, 

,  Gatacre,  Gateacre  in,  14. 

Sutton  in,  14,  15, 

Claverton,     See  Claverdon. 

Claveryng,  Joan  wife  of  Robert,  400. 

,  Jolm,  of  Edmonton,  292, 

,  Robert,  knight,  400. 

,   ....  de,  the  elder,  87, 

Claville,  Clavj'lle,  Joan  wife  of 
William  de,  506,  507, 

,  William  son  of  Jolin  de,  34, 

35,  506,  507, 

Cf.  Cloville. 

Clawson,  Long,  Claxton  [co,  Leices- 
ter], 394, 

Claybrooke,  Claybrok,  co,  Leicester, 
fee  in,  274, 

Claydon,  East,  Estclaydon,  co,  Buck- 
ingham, 544, 

,  Middle.   Little   Clayton,   co, 

Buckingham,  manor  of,   252, 

,  Steeple,    Stepelclaydon    [co, 

Buckingham],  vncar  of.  See 
Bernewell,  Re^Tiold  de. 

Claymond,  Jolm  de,  337. 


660 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Claymond — cont. 

Thomas,  Thom«w  de,  of  Hole, 

667,  571. 

of  Lincolnsliiro,  314. 

Claypol,  Joan  wife  of  Richard,  427, 

541. 

,  Ricliard,  427,  541. 

Clays,  Tankard,  filz  Gerard,  burgess 

of  Bruges,  226. 
Claj'ton.    See  Claydon. 
Clebury.     See  Cleobury. 
Clee,  CO.  Lincoln,  Weelsby,  Weveles- 

by  in,  510. 
Clement,  Jolin,  343. 
Robert,    coroner   of   Essex, 

235. 
Clemow,  Matthew,  burgess  of  I^ost- 

witliiel  in  parliament,  613. 
Clenchwarton,  co.  Norfolk,   advow- 

son  of,  560. 
Cleobury,  Clebury,  Richard,  548. 

,  Roger  de,  340. 

Clerbek,  John  son  of  Walter,  156, 

Clerc,     See  Clerk. 

Clere,  John,  of  Crondall,  175. 

,  Robert,  383. 

, ,  keeper  of  the  tem- 
poralities of  the  bishopric  of 

Norwich,  383. 

Walter,  383. 

,  William,  assessor  of  subsidy, 

489. 
,  . . . . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Norfolk,  476. 

,  ....  son  of  Robert,  383. 

Cf.  Clare. 

Clere  Episcopi.    See  High  Clere. 

clergy,  array  of,  38,  39. 

,  benefit  of,  221,  238,  268,  269, 

512. 
,  convocations   of,    286,   287, 

588,  595. 
,  taxation   of.    111,    131,    147, 

168,  190,  244,  251,  252,  256, 

260-262,  287,  401,  403,  588, 

595. 
Clerk,  Clerc,  Adam  le,  shipmaster  of 

Beaumaris,  154. 

,  Henry,  83,  331. 

,  Idonea  wife  of  Henry,  83. 

John,  John  le,  110,  346,  349, 

492. 

,  of  London,  535. 

,....,    of      Stretton    imder 

Foss,  472. 
, the   king's   moneyer, 

306. 
,  Peter,  Peter  le,  of  Harting, 

405,  407. 
,  . . , . ,  of  Iweme,  192. 


Clerk — cont. 

Richard,  80. 

,  Simon,   321. 

, of  Carlisle,  coroner  of 

Cimiberland,  236. 
Tlxomas,    coroner    of    Cam- 

bridgesliire,  9. 

, of  Bristol,  275. 

William,  345,  349. 

,  of  Preston,  268,  269. 

,  vicar    of    Tibenlmm, 

459. 
Clervaux,  Jolin,  parson  of  Banliara, 

334. 
aete,  John,  597. 

Cleveland,  Cliflond  [co.  York],  Mow- 
bray of,  66. 
Cleye.    See  Cockley  Cley. 
Cleye,  John  de,  clerk,  560. 
Cliderhou.    See  Clitheroe. 
Cliderhou,  Richard  son  of  John  de, 

481. 
Clif,  Wilham,  of  Sm-rej%  578. 
Clifi,  Clyffe  [in   Hemingbrough,   co. 

York],  manor  of,  394. 
CUffe,  Clyve,  co.  Kent,  67,  71,  72,  85. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  67. 

Pypavd,  CO.  Wilts,  Thomhill, 

Thornhull  in,  175. 
Clifford.     See  Ruin  Clifford. 
Clifford,  Lewis  de,  kniglit,  340. 

Roger  de,  361,  463,  465. 

,  lord  of  Westmoreland, 

69,  70,  283,  284,  429. 
CUflond.     See  Cleveland. 
Clifton,    Clifton    upon    Trente    [co. 

Nottingham],  parson  of.     See 

Leycestre,  Ricliard  de. 
Clifton,  Cliffeton,  Cljrfton,  Adam  de, 

359. 

, ,  knight,  60,  564,  570. 

,  Gervase  de,  knight,  73,  337, 

446,  501,  555,  567. 
,  Jolin  de,  purvevor  of  corn 

for  Calais,  212. 

,  Robert  de,  knight,  567,  571. 

...•...,  Thomas  de,  citizen  of  Wor- 
cester in  parliament,  101. 

,  Williain  de,  444. 

elite,    Clyte,    Colard,    Cobet   de   le, 

receiver  of  Flanders,  knight, 

300. 
,  Lamsyn   de   la,    biu*gess   of 

Ypres,  152. 
Clitheroe,  Cliderhou  [co.  Lancaster], 

481. 
Clixby,  Clixeby  [co.  Lincoln],  580. 
clock,  erection  of,  at  Gloucester,  391. 
Clonpriest  [co.  Cork],  Ireland,  Inchi- 

quin,  Inchecoigne  in,  72,  113. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


661 


Clopcoto.     See  Clapcot. 
Clophaui.     See  Clapham. 
Oopton,  CO.  Suffolk,  manor  of,  46. 
Cloptou,    Jolm    do,    coroner    of    co. 

Warwick,  236. 

,  of  Middlesex,  469. 

,    tlio    king's    nioneyer, 

306. 

Walter  de,  86,  535. 

,  William  do,  of  Warden,  86. 

Close,  Nicholas  del,  chaplain,  146. 
cloth,  32.  153,  380,  382,  383,  399. 

,  dearncss  of,  136. 

kinds  of,  89. 

,  linen,    324. 

,  measures  of,  608. 

of  Brabant,  217. 

of  Kersey,  579. 

of  St.  Tron,  325. 

,  rayed,  608. 

,  sale  of,  87,  88,  133. 

,  striped,  325. 

,  taxation  of,  87-90,  133,  144, 

172,  317,  423,  537,  538. 

woollen,  579,  608. 

Cloune,  Giles  de,  parson  of  Gosberton, 

458. 

,  Thomas,  78. 

Cloville,  John,  350. 

,  Richard,  492. 

Cf.  Claville. 

Clyffe.     -See  Cliff. 
Clyfton.     See  Clifton. 
Clygby,  Herbert  de,  206. 

,  Jolm  do,  206. 

Clymmote's  tenement  in  \A''oodliam 

Ferrers,  co.  Essex,  350. 
Clynnore,  William,  559. 
Clj-nton,  John  de,  384. 
, ,    Icnight,    69,    74,    429, 

443,  468,  493,  536. 
,  Juliana  wife  of  William  de, 

earl      of      Himtingdon,      46, 

167. 

,  Walter  de,  599,  600. 

,  William  de,  earl  of  Hunting- 
don, 46,  167. 
Clypston,    Thomas    de,    coroner    of 

Worcestershire,  8. 
ayte.     See  Clite. 
Ciyve.     See  Cliffe. 
Clyve,    Gilbert    de,    coroner    of    co. 

Gloucester,    236. 
,  Thomas  de,   of   Lancetshire, 

532. 
Clyvedon,  Jolin  de,  369. 

,  Matthew  de,  89. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  sliire  of 

Somerset,  101. 
,  Richard  de,  537,  573.     • 


Clj'vele,  Clyveleo,  Jolm,  merchant  of 

London,  404. 
,  .....    vintner,    of    London, 

452,  559. 

,  Katherine  wife  of  John,  452. 

coal,  212,  568. 

coast,  beacons  and  signals  on,  436. 

,  defence  of,  276. 

Coatham,   East,  Estcotom  [in  Kirk 

Leatham],  co.  York,  manor  of, 

139. 
West,  Westcotom  [in  Kirk 

Leatham],    co.    York,    manor 

of,  139. 
Cobberley,  Thomas,  Thomas  de,  son 

of  Joan  wife  of  William  de 

Whityngton,  499,  547. 
Cobeham.     iSee  Cobham. 
Cobet,  John,  565. 
Cobham,  Cobeham  [co.  Kent],  lord 

of.     <See  Cobham,  John  de. 
Cobham,    Cobeham,    Joan    wife    of 

Reynold  de,  125. 

,  John  de,  24,  25. 

,  knight,  186. 

,  .  .  .  .,  lord  of  Cobham,  71. 

,  Reynold  de,  parson  of  Cool- 
ing, 71,  72,  179,  279. 

, son  of  Reynold  de,  125. 

,  William  de,  knight,  182,  183, 

335,  576. 
,  . .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Surrey,  289,  297,  316,  476. 
Cobildyk,  John  de.  20. 

,  . .  .  . ,  son  of  John  de,  20,  21. 

Coby,  John,  chaplain,  159. 
Cobyndon,     Henry,    mercheint     of- 

Bristol,  30. 
Cock.     See    Cook. 
Cockayne  Hatley.     See  Hatley. 
Cockerington,  Cokeryngton,  co.  Lin- 
coln, manor  of,  379. 
Cockfield,     Cokafeld,     co.     Suffolk, 

manor  of,  46. 
Cockley   Cley,    Cleye    by    Swafham 

Market  [co.  Norfolk],  413. 
cocks,  rent  of,   598. 
Cecum  (Farm),  Cokliam  in  Barton 

Stacey,   co.   Hants,   310. 
Coddeshale.    See  Codesalo. 
Code,  Richard,  burgess  of  Liskeard 

in  parliament,  613. 
Codecote.     See  Codicote. 
Codenore.     See  Codnor. 
Codesale,      Coddeshale,      Coteshale, 

William,  William  de,  burgess 

of  Oxford  in  parliament,  101, 

290,  298,  613. 
Codicote,    Codecote    [co.    Hertford], 

596. 


662 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Codnor,  Codonore  [co.  Derby],  Grey 

of,  4G2,  463. 
Codreth.     See  Cotterod. 
Codaall,  co.  Stafford,  Kiiigswood  in, 

356. 
Codjnigton.     See  Cuddington. 
Codyixgton,    Honry    do,    parson    of 

Bottesford,  69,  394. 
,  Simon  de,  knight,  335,  576, 

598. 
,  .  .  . . ,  kniglit  of  the  shire  of 

Sm-rey,  101,  289,  612. 

Cf.  Seint     Michael. 

Coffard,  Edmund,  bailiff  of  Salisbury, 

429. 
Cofrere,   Stephen,   of   St.   Lawience 

Lane,   484. 
Coggcshalo,  Henry  de,  knight,  675. 
,  . . . . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Essex,  612. 
Coigne,   Coigny,   Robert,   parson  of 

Somerford  Parva,   52,   63, 
coinage  and  currency ; 

engi'aver  of  dies,  office  of,  525, 

526. 
exclusion      and     exchange     of 

Scottish  money,  320,  321,  482, 

608,  609. 
florins  of  Florence,  347. 
pieces  of,  named,  303,  304. 
prohibition  of  export  of,  424. 
standard  of,  303,  304. 
the  king's  moneyers,  511. 
the    king's    moneys    at    Calais, 

master    of.       See    Malepilys, 

Bardet  de. 
Cokafeld.     See  Cockfield. 
Coke.     See  Cook. 
Cokefeld,  Adam  de,  parson  of  Sail, 

564,  565,  569. 

,....,....  of  Thorndon,  171. 

Cokeham.     ^ee  Cookham. 
Cokelescombe,     John,     burgess     of 

Tavistock  in  parliament,  298. 
Coker,  Wilham,  433. 
Cokeryngton.      See  Cockerington. 
Cokeseye,  Walter  de,  337. 
Cokham.     See  Cecum,  Coolcham. 
Coklieved,    John   son    of    Hugh,    of 

Barton,  13. 
Cokke.     See  Cook. 
Cokkes,  WilHam,  221. 
Cokkou,  William,  586. 
Cokkyrke,  Henry  de,  550. 
Cokstoun,  John,  349. 
Colan,  St.  Golan,  co.  Cornwall,  363. 
Colas,  Henry,  of  Guildford,  farmer  of 

subsidy,   172. 
ColbajTi,  Wilham,  386. 
Colbroke.    See  Colnbrook. 


Colby,  Reynold,  citizen  of  Norwich, 
222. 

Colchester,      Colcestre,      Colchestrej 
Colocestre,  co.  Essex,  535. 

,  bailiffs  of,  115,  483,  606. 

,  burgess    of,    in    parliament, 

299. 

Cold   Overton,    Coldoverton.        See 
Overton. 

Cole,  CoUo,  John,  of  Bridgwater,  194. 

Robert,  of  Melton  Mowbray, 

339. 

,  Thomas,  472. 

,  William,  335. 

Coleby,  co.  Lincoln,  403. 

Colecestre.     See  Colchester, 

Coledemere,  Peter,  ship  owner,  399, 
414. 

Coleman,    Colman,    Geoffrey,    cook, 
584. 

John,  79. 

,  .  .  .  . ,     of     Cambridgeshire, 

584. 

,  Thomas,  108. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  cook,  584. 

Colei)eper,  Colpeper,  Culpepir,  Geof- 
frey, 83,  480. 

,  John,  182,  183,  184,  185, 

Colerne,  co.  Wilts,  manor  of,  42. 

Coleton.     See  Collaton. 

ColeviUe.     See  ColvUe. 

Colewell,   Collewelle,   Alice  relict  of 
John  de,  588. 

,  Joan  wife  of  Geoffrey  and 

daughter  of  John,  427. 

Colgayth.     See  Culgaith. 

Cohere,  William,  vicar  of  Milton,  332. 

Colkyng',  Jolm,  of  Kent,  the  elder, 
545. 

Collaton,   Coleton   [in  Malborough], 
CO.  Devon,  fee  in,  393. 

CoUe.     See  Cole. 

CoUes,  WUliam,  coroner  of  Somerset, 
387 

Colleshulle.     See  ColshuU. 

Collewelle.     See  Colewell. 

CoUingboume,      Colyngburne,      co. 
WUts,  40. 

CoUyng.     See   Colyn. 

Colly  Weston.     See  Weston. 

Colman.     See  Coleman. 

Colmworth,    Colmeworth    [co.    Bed- 
ford], 577. 

Colnbrook,  Colbroke  [cos.  Bucking- 
ham and  Middlesex],  175,  571. 

Colne,  Earls,  Colne,  co.  Essex,  105. 

,  advowson  of  priory  of, 

493. 

,  manor  of,  272,  273. 

Colne,  John  de,  456,  457. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


663 


Colne,  John  de — cont. 

,     . . . . ,     parson,    of     Etton, 

160. 

Colnej',  Colneye  [co.  Norfolk],  333, 
334. 

Coloigiie,  JoJin  de,  106. 

CoJpeper.     See  Colepeper. 

ColritJio,  Colretli,  Kogor,  78,  110, 
177,  309,  312. 

Colscamp.     See  CooLscamp. 

Colslmll,  CoUosliuJlo,  Colsulle,  Rich- 
ard, Ricliard  de,  clerk,  309. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Berkshire,  480. 

,  Thomas,  knight,  336. 

Colston,  Robert  do,  78. 

Colsulle.     See  Colshull. 

Colt,  Geoffrey,  480. 

Coltishall,  Couteshale  [co.  Norfolk], 
parson  of.  See  Felbrigge, 
John  de. 

Coltloghe,  William,  burgess  of  New- 
castle under  Lyme  in  parlia- 
ment, 477. 

Colton,  Robert  de,  423. 

Colvile,  Coleville,  Colvyle,  Geoffrey, 
99. 

, ,  the  elder,  348. 

,  Robert,  lord  of  Castle  By- 

tham,  458. 

William,  116. 

Colville,  lands  of,  [near  Ci'ondal,  co. 
Hants],  110. 

Colvyle.     See  Colvile. 

Colwinston,  Colwenston  [co.  Glam- 
organ], Wales,  manor  of,  344. 

Colworthe.     See  Culworth. 

Colyn,  CoUyng,  John,  vicar  of 
Everton,  377,  466. 

,  Robert,  605. 

,  William,  citizen  of  Hereford 

in  parliament,  290. 

Colyngborne,  Jolxn  de,  600. 

Colyngburne.     See  Collingbourne. 

Combe.     See  Castle  Combe. 

Raleigh,  Ralegh  [co.  Devon], 

parson  of.  See  Stone,  Thomas. 

Combe,    Covmibe,    Edmimd  de,   175. 

,  Edward  de,  218. 

Henry,  the  king's  moneyer, 

306. 

,  Jolm,  350. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  biu-gess  of  Plympton 

in  parliament,  298. 

,  knight,  367. 

,  . .  .  .,  son  of  John,  367. 

,  Peter  de,  431. 

Ralph  de,   175. 

Combokeynes.     See  Coombe  Keynes. 

Comberoyal,  Coumbe  Real  [in  West 
Al\-ington],  co.  Devon,  84. 


Combertou,  Groat,  co.  Worcester, 
manor  of,  108,  453,  454. 

,  Littlo,  CO.  Worcester,  manor 

of,    108,  453,  454. 

Combs,  Combes,  co.  Suffolk,  manor 
of,  344,  421. 

Combwell,  Conunowello  [in  Goud- 
hurst,  CO.  Kent],  prior  of,  364. 

Common  Bench.     <See  Bench. 

Compton,  603. 

[in  Tettenhall,  co.  Stafford], 

356. 

Pauncefoot,    Pauncefot,    co. 

Somerset,  fee  in,  393. 

Verney,  Murdak,  co.  War- 
wick, manor  of,  535. 

Compton,  John  de,  burgess  of  Glou- 
cester in  parliament,  290. 

ComjTi,  Anabilla  wife  of  John,  148, 
149. 

,  John,  148,  149. 

Conagh'.     <See  Connaught. 

Conestable,  John,  543. 

Coneweye.     See  Conway. 

conies,  45. 

Conington,  Conyngton  [co.  Cam- 
bridge], 551. 

CO.    Huntingdon,    advowson 

of,  575,  577. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  deed  dated  at,  575. 

,  .  .  .  .,  manor  of,  575,  577. 

Conispool,  Nicholas,  609. 

Connaught,  Conagh',  archbishop  of. 
*See  Baret,  Thomas. 

,  lordsliip  of,  530. 

Conock,  Connok  [in  Chirton],  co. 
Wilts,  manor  of,  556,  558. 

convocation.     See  clergy. 

Conway,  Coneweye,  Conweye  in 
North  Wales  [co.  Carnarvon], 
abbot  of,  261. 

,  lordsliip  of,  520. 

,  staple  of,  154. 

Conyngton.      See   Conington. 

Conyngton,  John  do,  cleik,  544. 

Cook,  Cock,  Coke,  Cokke,  Couk, 
Alexander,  50. 

Arnulf ,  343. 

,  Edwai-d,  351,  352. 

,  Ellis,  352. 

,  Geoffrey,    biu'gess    of    East 

Grinstead  in  parliament,  101. 

,  Hugh,  of  London,  545. 

,  Josua  wife  of  Amulf ,  343. 

,  Jolm,  279. 

,  . .  .  .,  of  Horndon,  263. 

,  of  Leicester,  547. 

,  Margaret    (Reison)    wife    of 

WilUam,  16. 

Peter,  Piers,  555,  556,  558. 


664 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Couk,  Petor — cant. 

,  knight,  581. 

PJulip  le,  of  13rornyard,  189. 
Ralpli,  of  Norfolk,  457. 
Kobert,  of  Gravosend,  480. 
Roger,  472. 
Thomas,  453. 

clerk,  541. 

.  .  . .,  harsshere,  343. 

Walter,    340. 

William,    William    lo,    349, 

385,  391,  529. 

of  Kexby,  59. 

Cf.  Koc. 

Cookliam,    Cokeham,    Cokliam    [co. 

Berks],      bailiff      of      queen 

Philippa     at.       See     Rokele, 

William  do  la. 

,  reeve  of  manor  of,  64,  130. 

water  mill  at,  64. 

Cooling,   Conlyng,   EastcoiiljTig,  co. 

Kent,  deeds  dated  at,  71,  72 
,  parson    of.      ^See    Cobham, 

Reynold  de. 
,  Shirlandesmersh,  Shirlandes 

merssh  in,  71,  72. 
Coolscamp,  Colscamp  [W.  Flanders], 

lord  of,  300. 
Coombe  Keynes,  Combekeynes,   co. 

Dorset,  farmer  of  manor  of. 

See  Keynes,  Joan  wife  of  Jolin. 
Cope,  Adam,  338. 
Copford  [co.  Essex],  parson  of.    See 

Foxden,  Jolan  de. 
Coppemaine,  John,  merchant,   382. 
Coppendale,  Adam,  of  Beverley,  580. 
Copper,    Roger   le,    king's    yeoman, 

279. 

Cf.  Coupere. 

Coppethome,  William,  coroner  of  co. 

Warwick,  135,  363,  379. 
Coptfold,  Copwold  [in  Margaretting], 

CO.  Essex,  fee  in,  492. 
Copton,    parson    of.      See    Syward, 

John. 
Copwold.     See  Coptfold. 
Corbet,  Fnlk,  80. 
Robert,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Salop,  289,  476. 

,  William,  knight,  108,  109. 

Corbridge,      co.      Northvimberland, 

Great  Whittington,  Whityng- 

ton  in,  515,  521. 

,  Halton,  Haulton.  in,  521. 

Corbrigge,    William,    of    Yorkshire, 

583. 
Corby  [co.  Lincoln],  manor  of,  458. 
Corby,      Coreby,      Robert,     son     of 

Robert,  Robert  de,  86,  569. 
,  William  de,  110. 


CordoU,  Thomas,   593. 
Coreby.     See  Corby. 
Corf,  Master  John,  clerk,  114. 
Corfe  Castle,  CorfTe  castle  [co.  Dor- 
sot],  constable  of,  323. 
Cork    [co.    Cork],    Ireland,   port    of, 

213. 
corn,  11,  28,  33,  52,  53, 106,  152,  177, 
!  182,  183,  188,  223,  369. 

forestallers  of,   193-195. 

,  proclamation  of  free  export 

j  of,  443. 

,  prohibition  of  export  of,  114, 

115,  116,  278. 

purveyance  of,  212. 

cornago,  124,  147. 
Comerde,  Thomas,  390. 
Cornewaile,  Cornewaille.    See  Comu- 

bia. 
Cornewaloys,  Comwaleys,  Joan  wife 

of  Thomas,  186,  187. 

,  Thomas,  452,  559. 

,  .  .  . . ,  merchant  of  London, 

404. 
:      of  London,   186,   187, 

419. 
Cornewayle,  Cornewayll.    See  Corne- 
waille. 
Cornewelle.     See  Comwell. 
Cornu,  Robert,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Devon,  100. 
Comubia,    Cornewaile,   Cornewaille, 
:  Cornewayle,  Cornewayll, 

I  Brian,  knight  of  tlie  shire  of 

Salop,   101. 
,  Cicely  wife  of  Geoffrey  de, 

126. 
,  Edmund  de,  knight  of  the 

shire  of  Lincoln,  101. 

,  Geoffrey  de,  knight,   126. 

,  Henry  de,  of  Salop,  562. 

,  William,  William  de,  561. 

,  . . . . ,  bailiff  of  Canterbury, 

479. 

i      , ,  of  Kent,  478. 

j     Comwaleys.     See  Comewaleys. 
I     Cornwall,  county  of,  87,  451. 

,  archdeaconry  of,  246. 

.coroners   of,    14,    122,    363, 

501. 
,    defence   of   coast   of,    215, 

276. 

,  earl  of.     See  Edward. 

,  escheator  in.     See  Wysdom, 

Robert. 

,  justices  of  assize  in,  246. 

I      ,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  100, 

289,  298,  316,  611. 
....,.,  lieutenant  of  the  admiral  of 

the  fleet  in,  52,  371. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


G65 


Conxwall — cont. 

,  sheriff  of,  14,  116,  122,  203, 

220,  276,  298,  363.  501,  530. 
See  also  Crancwcll,  William 
do  ;    Dabemoiui,  Jolm. 

,  shrievalty  of,  271. 

,  taxation  in,   317,   537,  538. 

Comwell,    ComowcUe,    co.    Oxford. 

605. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  605. 

,  manor  of,   605. 

Coroner,  Jolm,  of  Levorington,  340. 
coroners,  election  of,  3,  4,  7-9,  14.  16, 

44,  46,   49,   50,   57,   122,   129. 

135,   144,   162,   170,   171,  216. 

221,  233,  235-237,  275,  358. 
361,  363,  367,  371,  378,  379. 
381,  386,  387,  395,  410,  413. 
414,  486,  490,  494,  497,  500. 
501,  510-512,  515,  525,  526. 

,  qualifications  of,  8. 

Corpsone,  Jolm,  clerk,  221. 

corrodies,  259,  332. 

Corton.  Corston  [co.  Suffolk],  men  of, 
27. 

Coryvell.     See  Ciu-ry  Rivell. 

Coselyn,  Henry,  239. 

,  Ricliard,  239. 

Cosham,  John,  bvu'gess  of  Armidel 
in  parliament,  297. 

Cossall,  Cossale,  co.  Nottingham, 
manor  of,  49,  50. 

Costantpi.  John,  545. 

Costj-n,  Jolm,  the  younger,  of  Ci'oy- 
don,  465. 

CosjTi,  Cousin,  Cus^-n,  John,  55. 

..."'..., of  Salisbiu-y,  429. 

,  warden  of  the  chapel 

of  St.  Peter,  Kirby  Bellars, 
St.  Peter  upon  Wretliek,  2. 

,  William  son  of  William,  47. 

Cotat,  Jolm,  349. 

Cotegrave,  John,  yeoman,  423. 

Cotel,  Alice,  349. 

,  Isabel  wife  of  Richard,  17. 

,  Isolda  daughter  of  Richard, 

17. 

,  John  son  of  Richard,  17. 

,  Richard,  17. 

,  Thomas  son  of  Richard,  17. 

Coten.     See  Cot  on. 

Cotene,  Geoffrey  atte,  83. 

Cf.  Coton. 

Coterigh,  Adam.  343. 

Cot«s  [cos.  Salop  and  Montgomery], 
421. 

Cotes,  John  de,  coroner  of  Lincoln- 
shire, 8. 

,  Thomas  de,  79. 

William,  633. 


Cotes — cont. 

Cf.  Little  Cotes. 

Cotesford,  Roger  do,  knight,  343,  450, 
555,  556,  562. 

,  knight  of  tlio  shiro  of 

Oxford,  101,  268,  298,  316. 

Coteshalo.     See  Codeshale. 

Coteur.  Giles  del,  244. 

Cothullo,  William,  453. 

Coton,  Coten  [in  LidlingtonJ,  co. 
Derby,  manor  of,  374. 

,  Estcoton     by     Gildesburgh 

[in  Ravonsthorpe],  co.  North- 
ampton, 84. 

Coton,  Cotoun,  Henry  de,  clerk,  172. 

.William,   William    de,    112, 

419. 

Cf.  Cotene. 

Cotoun.     See  Coton,  Cotton. 

Cottered,  Codreth,  co.  Hertford,  502. 

Cotton,  Cotoim  [in  Wem,  co.  Salop], 
356. 

CotjTigham,  Hugh  de,  338. 

,  John  do,  390. 

,  Richard,  496. 

,  Thomas,  of  Northampton- 
shire, 610. 

Coucy,  Cuucy.  Ingelram  de,  lord  of, 
earl  of  Bedford,  61,  75,  87, 
125,  234.  473. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the 

lands  of  the  earl  of  March,  1 59. 

,  .  .  .  .,  his  wife.*    See  Isabel, 

the  king's  daughter. 

,  William  de,  141,  162. 

,   .  .  .  .,  knight,  253,  254. 

Coudray,  lord  of,  312. 

Couedenne.     See  Cowden. 

Couen,  Thomas,  knight  of  the  shire 
of  Kent,  101. 

Cf.  Couyn. 

Couk.     See  Cook. 

Couley,  Henry  de,  569. 

Couleye.     See  Cowley. 

Coulj-ng.     See  Cooling. 

Coulyng.  Dionisia  wife  of  John,  321. 

,  John,  321. 

Comnbe.  See  Combe,  Comberoyal, 
Cowcombe. 

council,  common  coimcil  of  the 
realm,  the,  6,  7,  9,  13,  20,  27, 
32,  35,  58,  61,  64,  77.  89,  107, 
109,  112,  114,  148,  152,  178, 
188,  189,  192.  193,  195,  200, 
209,  216.  221,  224,  226,  228- 
230,  233,  238,  239,  241,  244, 
245,  257-259,  262,  265,  266, 
277,  296,  297,  299,  300,  302- 
306,  320-323,  328,  346,  347, 
361,  362,  390,  400,  401,  410, 


666 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Council,    coramoi)     council    of     the 
roalra,  the — cunt. 

416,  420,  421,  424,  431,  432, 

434,  443,  452,  459,  463,  467, 

485,  490,  495,  505,  519,  526, 

529,  530,  546,  588,  595,  608. 

,  gi-eat,   263,    511. 

,....,    at    Winchester,    314, 

316,  318. 
of  parliament,  482. 

,  prelates,  princes,  lords  and 

wise  men  of,  213. 

,  wine  for,  364. 

.     See  also  Durham,  Liege. 
Comitesthorpe,      Cuntasthorp      [co. 

Leicester],  549. 

?   Gunthorpe,  manor  of,  108. 

Coupeland,  Coupland,  Joan  wife  of 

John  de,   111,  141,   147,  162, 

254,  446,  448. 

,  John  de.  111,  141,  162,  254. 

Coupere,  Henry  le,  355. 

John  le,  the  elder,  561. 
Robert,  562. 

Thomas,  Thomas  le,  356. 
.  .  .  . ,  parson  of  Holcutt,  477. 

son  of  Edmimd,  356. 

Cf.  Copper. 

Coupland  [in  Kirloiewton,  co.  North- 

vunberland],  manor  of,  448. 
Coupland.     See  Coupeland. 
Courcy,  Miles  de,  381. 
Courson.     See  Ciirson. 
Coxu-tayse.     See  Coiirteys. 
court    christian.      See   Christianity, 

com*t  of. 
Covu-tenaye,  Courteneye.    See  Court- 
ney. 
Courteys,  Courtayse,  Curteys,  John, 

of  Wymyngton,  74. 
,  .  .  .  . ,    .  .  .  . ,  merchant,  440, 

441. 

,  Richard,  of  Essex,  573. 

,  Robert,  442. 

Courthorp,  John,  247. 

Courtman,  Robert,   607. 

Courtney,     Covu-tenay,     Courteneye, 

Edward  son  of  Emelina  wife 

of  Edward  de,  407. 
,  Hugh  de,  earl  of  Devon,  151. 

462,  463,  587. 
,  . . .  . ,   .  .  . . ,  guardian  of  the 

peace  and  justice  of  oyer  and 

terminer  in  Devon,  58. 
,  ....    son   of  Thomas,    202, 

393. 

,  Joan  wife  of  Thomas  de,  560. 

,  Margaret  (de  Peverell)  sister 

of  Hugh  son  of  Thomas  de, 

202,  393. 


Courtney — cant. 

,  Mui-iol  wife  of  Thomas  de, 

393. 
,  PliiUp    do,    admiral    of    the 

fleet  from  the  mouth  of  the 

Thames  westward,   371,  428, 

447,  488,  502,  530. 

Thomas  de,  83,  393,  560. 

,  William,  bishop  of  Hereford, 

251,  477. 
,  .  .  .  . ,    .  .  .  . ,  liis  clerk.     See 

Dawe,  Roger. 
Cousin.     See  Cosyn. 
Couteshale.     See  Coltishall. 
Couton.     *See  Cowton. 
Couyn,  Thomas,  401. 

Cf.  Couen. 

Cove  [in  Yately,  co.  Hants],  419. 
Coventry,    Coventre,    co.    Warwick, 

26,  74,  85,  90,  110,  324,  423, 

430,  472. 

,  coroner  of,  election  of,  129. 

,  deed  dated  at,  430. 

,  Earl    Street,    Erlestrete    in, 

110. 
,  mayor  of.     See  Toft,  John 

de. 
,  ....    and    baUiffs    of,    129, 

483. 
,  prior  of,  84,  204,  462,  463, 

587. 

,  ....  and  convent  of,  26,  103. 

Coventry  and  Lichfield,   bishop  of. 

See     Langton,     Walter     de  ; 

Northbm'gh,  Roger  de  ;  Stret- 

ton,  Robert  de. 

,  diocese  of,  251. 

Cowcombe  ?     Coumbe     in     Barton 

Stacey,  co.  Hants,  310. 
Cowden,     Couedenne     [co.     Kent], 

rector      of.        See     Randolf, 

Stephen. 
Cowherd,  Richard,  357. 
Co  wick,  Cowyk,  co.  York,  manor  of, 

139. 
Cowley,   Couleye,   co.   Buckingham, 

272,  273. 
Cowton,  Couton  [co.  York],  465. 
Cowyk.     See  Cowick. 
Coxwold,  CO.  York,  Byland  abbey  in, 

262. 
Coyt,  Thomas,  497. 

,  Walter,  497. 

Craan.    *See  Crane. 
Crabbere,  Thomas,  541. 
Crackington,     Ci'akhamton    [in    St. 

Gennys],  co.  Cornwall,  manor 

of,  86. 
Crafton,  Ci'ofton  [in  Wing,  co.  Buck- 
ingham], 447,  448. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


667 


Craike,  Crayke,  co.  York,  159,  255. 
Crakemarsh,  Crakemerssh  [in  Uttox- 

eter],  co.  Stafford,  manor  of, 

74. 
Crakliamton.     See  Crackington. 
Crainphorne,  John,  37,  156. 
Crane,  Craan,  Hugh,  Hugh  le,  309. 
,  citizen  of  Winchester, 

581,  682. 

, farmer  of  subsidy,  537. 

,  . . .  . ,  merchant  of  Winches- 
ter, 5,  693. 

,  . .  .  .,  of  Hants,  116. 

,  of  Wincliestcr,  570. 

Cranewell,    Wilham    de,    sheriff    of 

Cornwall,  270. 
,  steward  in  Cornwall  of 

Edward  prince  of  Wales,  264. 
Craucombe.    See  Crowcombe. 
Craule.    See  Crawley. 
Craumford.     See  Craunforde. 
Crauncewj'k,  William  de,  543. 
Craunforde,     Craumford,     Thomas, 

338,  551. 
Crawley,  Little  [in  North  Crawley, 

CO.  Buckingham],  693. 
,  North,     Gioat    Craule    [co. 

Buckingham],  593. 
Cray,  Foots,  Fotescreye,  co.   Kent, 

rector  of.    See  Biewode,  John 

de. 
,    North,     Northcreye       [co. 

Kent],  manor  of,  210. 
Crayke.     See  Craike. 
Crecy.    See  Cressy. 
Crede,  John,  390,  410. 
,  . . . . ,  merchant  of  Florence, 

216. 
Credil,  William,  clerk,  338. 
Crendon,  Long,  Ci'yndon,  co.  Buck- 
ingham, manor  of,  496. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  Notley  abbey  in,  336. 

places  named  in,  352- 

354. 
Crepyn,  Edm\md,  321. 

Cf.  Crispyn. 

Cressalton.     See  Carshalton. 
Cressewyk,  William,  clerk,  of  Lon- 
don, 470. 
Cressi.     See  Cressy. 
CressLngham,    Cressyngham,    Great, 

CO.  Norfolk,  318. 
Cressy,    Crecy,     Cressi,     Hugh    de, 

252. 

Lucy,  205. 

Cressyngham.      See   Cressingham. 
Cressyngham,  John  de,  assessor  of 

subsidy,   489. 
,  escheator  in  Essex,  2, 

3,  9,  10,  43,  56. 


Cressyngham,  John  de,  escheator — 
cont. 

,  . . . . ,  ....  in  Hortfordsliire, 

56. 

,  .  .  .  . ,    ....    in  Norfolk,    1 7, 

21,  66,  120,  263. 

, , in  Suffollc,  4,  46, 

66. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  London,  188. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  steward  of  the  bishop 

of  Norwich  at  Iving's  Lj-nn, 
386. 

,  William,  452,  559. 

I     Creue,  Thomas,  parson  of  Fallegh, 
192. 
Crevquier,  Alexander  de,  5. 
Creyke,  Thomas,  citizen  of  London, 

450,  451. 
Crickelade,  Thomas,  Thomas  de,  433, 

434. 
Crieke,     Lamsin,     ship-master,     of 

Flanders,  152. 
Criketot,    Isabel   wife    of     William, 
676,  582. 

,  William,  knight,  576,  682. 

,  ....  son  of  William,  knight, 

4. 
Crikyer,  Phihp,  467. 
Crindledyko     [in     Kirk     Oswald]  ? 
Crinkledyk,  co.  Cumberland, 
124. 
Cringleford,  Ci-yngilford  [co.Noifolk], 
333,  334. 

,  manor  of,  333,  334. 

,  mill  at,  333,  334. 

Cringyldyk,     Ralph     de,     chaplain, 

256. 
Crinkledyk.    See  Crindledyke  ? 
Crispyn,    Richard,    83. 

,  Tliomas,  242. 

Cf.  Crepyn. 

Cristien.     See  Christion. 

Cristilton,  John,  of  Coventry,  clerk, 

324. 
Crocheman,  William,  492. 
Croeselin,  John,   152.  , 

Croft  [co.  Lincoln],   562. 

[co.  York],  parson  of.      See 

Bouet,  Henry. 
Croft,  Robert,  of  Croft,  562. 
Croftes,  William  in  the,  634,  535. 
Crofton.    See  Crafton. 
Crofton,    Clement    de,    verderer    of 

Inglewood  forest,  9. 
Croghowe,  John,  483. 
Crogov,  Peter,  parson  of  Landewed- 

nack,  86. 
Croke.     See  Crook. 
Crokston.     See  Croxden. 
Crombe  Adam.     tSee  Croome. 


668 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Ci'ombvvoll,   Ci'onibbwcU,   Kulpli   de, 

248,  249. 

,  knight,  285,  445. 

,  .....   lortl  of  Tatters- 

liftll,  95. 
,  Ulker  brotlior  of    Ralpli  de, 

95. 
Crondal,  Crundale   [co.  Hants],  110, 

175. 

Btidlej',  Badele  in,  1 10. 

,  places  named  in,  175. 

Crongotliorp,  Robert  de,  262. 
Ci'onkhall,    Ci'onkwalle    [in    Tetten- 

hall],  CO.  Stafford,  356. 
Crook,  Croke,  John,  81. 

,  William,  43. 

Crookdake,  Cruddayk  [in  BromfieldJ, 

CO.  Cimiboi'land,  124. 
Crookliam,    Ci'oucum   [in   Ford,   co. 

Northumberland],  fee  in,  448. 
Croome,  Eai-l's,  Ci'ombe  Adam,  co. 

Worcester,    manor    of,     108, 

453,  454. 
Cropredy,  co.  Oxford,  Williamscott, 

Williamescote  in,  381. 
Ci'opston,    Ci'opstoun,    Croptson    [in 

Thiircaston],     co.     Leicester, 

352. 

,  fee  in,  274. 

Crosby  [in  Cross-canonby],  co.  Cum- 
berland, manor  of,  31. 
,  Crosseby    [in     Sef ton],    co. 

Lancaster,  230. 
crossbows,  509. 
Cross-Canonby,      co.      Cim:iberland, 

Bii'kby,  Bret  by  and  Crosby, 

in,   31. 
Crosse,  William  atte,  rector  of  St. 

Clement       Danes       without 

Temple  Bar,  London,   103. 
Crosseby.     See  Ci'osby. 
Crosseby,    Thomas    de,    coroner    of 

Cumberland,   515. 
Crosseman,    Thomas,    merchant    of 

Bristol,  30. 
Crossthwaite,        co.        Cumberland, 

Braithwaite  in,  146. 
Croston,  co.  Lancaster,  554. 

,  Bispham  in,  54. 

Crcuciim.     See  Ci-ookham. 
Croulim'ste.     See  Crowhurst. 
Ci'oide,  John,  citizen  of  Worcester  in 

parliament,    290,    298. 

Cf.  Crville. 

Croumersh.     See  Ci"o\\Tnarsh. 
Crowcombe,  Craucombe,  co.  Somer- 
set, 164. 
Crowe,  John,  rector  of  Little  Chis- 

hall,    562. 
Crowemerssh.     See  Crowmarsh. 


Crowhuibt,   Crouhurste,   co.   Surrey, 

419. 
Crowland,    Croyland   [co.    Lincoln], 

405. 
Crowlo,  Crullo  [co.  Lincoln],  566. 

Eastof t,  Estoft  in,  566. 

Crowmarsh,      Gifi'ord,      Croumersh, 

Crowomcsrssh  Giffard,  560,  561. 

Badcokkesland  in,  561. 

,  deed  dated  at,  589. 

,  manor  of,  589. 

,  parish  chm'ch  of,  589. 

Croxdon,    Crokston    [co.     Stafford], 

abbot  of,  357. 
Croxton,  Croxston,  Henry  de,  550. 

,  John  de,  412,  499. 

,  Maud  wife  of  John  de,  412, 

499. 
Croxton  Kerrial,  co.  Leicester,  abbot 

of,      collector      of      subsidy, 

249. 
Croydon  [co.  Surrey],  465. 
Croydon,     Richard    de,     citizen    of 

London,  214,  215. 
Croyland.     See  Crowland. 
Croyser,  William,  knight,  75,  77,  93, 

335,  575. 
Cruddayk.     See  Crookdake. 
CruUe.     See  Crowle. 
Crulle,  John  de,  of  Kent,  469. 
,  Margaret  (de  Neketon)  wife 

of  John,  60. 

,  Robert,  82. 

, ,  clerk,  516. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  king's  clerk,  510. 

Cf.  Ci-oule. 

Crundale.     See  Crondal. 
Crutched  Friars.     Sec  Friars. 
Cruwys      Morchard,      co.      Devon, 

Thongsleigh,  Thanyslegh, 

Thwengeslegh  in,  339,  523. 
Crych,  Robert,  of  Bridgwater,  mer- 
chant, 52. 
Cryndon.    See  Crendon. 
Crjiigilford.     See  Cringleford. 
Cryour,  Alice,  340. 
Ci'ysjJ,  Walter,  coroner  of  co.  Devon, 

363. 
Cryst,  Robert,  chaplain,  442,  443. 
Cuddington,  Codyngton  [co.  Surrey], 

lord  of.     See  Seint  Michael, 

Simon  de. 
Cudel,   Ghiis,  master  of  the  Seinte 

Marie  of  Sluys,  225. 
Culgaith,  Colgayth  [in  Kirkland],  co. 

Cumberland,  5. 
Culham,  William,  456. 
,   .  .  .  .,  merchant  of  London, 

325. 
of  London,  328. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


669 


Cvillompton,  CO.  Devon,  Langford  in, 

8G. 
Culody,  Jolin,  355. 
Culpepir.    See  Colopepcr. 
Culvvon,    Ciilwoiino,    Curwenne,    Ed- 
mund tlo,  444. 

,  Gilbert  do,  440. 

,  .  .  .  .,  kniglit  of  the  shire  of 

Cumberland,    289,    299,    316, 
612. 
Culworth,  Colvvorthe  [co.  Northamp- 
ton!, 441. 

,  vicar  of.    See  Waleys,  Jolm. 

Cumberland,    county   of,    433,    439, 

440. 

,  arrays  in,  361,  362. 

,  coroners  of,  8,  9,  235,  236, 

515. 
,  escheators  in.     See  Erg\im, 

William  ;       Lascels,     Roger  ; 

Mus^ave,  Thoinas  de  ;    Sco- 

therskelf,  John. 
justices    for    pleas    of    the 

forest   in,    28,    134,    371. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  100, 

289,  299,  316,  476,  612. 
,  sheriff  of,  8,  9,  124,  191,  235, 

236,  262,  299,  330,  362,  363, 

414,   476,   514,  515. 

,  taxation  in,  172,  537. 

Cumberworth,  Robert  son  of  Thomas 

de,  337. 
cumin,  rent  of,    205,   349-351,  355, 

407. 
Cundy,  Alice  (Wathonden)  sister  of 

William  son  of  John,   410. 
,  Constance  sister  of   William 

son    of    John,  410. 
,  Idonea  sistev  of  William  son 

of  Jolm,  410. 
,  John  son  of  William,  bailiff 

of  Sandwich,  410. 
Margaret  (Grubbe)  sister  of 

William  son  of  John,  410. 
,  Margcrj'  (Alakcnhad),  sistei 

of  William  son  of  John,  410. 

,  WiUiam  son  of  John,  410. 

Cuntasthorp.     See  Countesthorpe. 
cups  of  mazer,  416. 
currency.     See  coinage. 
Ciu-ry,   North,  co.   Somerset,    Beau- 
champ   of    Lillisdon  in,   290, 

298.  316.  537.  573. 
Rivell,  Coryvell    [co.  Somer- 
set!, 573. 
Curson,  Com'son,  Cursoun,  Ciu-szoim, 

John,  of  Kedleston,  432,  437, 

438. 

,  Robert,  of  Honingham,  597. 

,  the  kin  g's  saddler,  610. 


Ciu'son — cont. 

,  Thomas,  of  Bintreo,  598. 

,  William,  564. 

,  .  . . .,  knight  of  tho  shire  of 

Norfolk,  612. 

,  of  Barford,  597. 

Curteys.     See  Cour'toj's. 

Cm'wenne.     See  Culwcn. 

Ciisworth  [co.  York!,  97. 

Cusyn.     See  Cosyn. 

Cuthbert,      John,      of      Brougliam, 

126. 
Cuucy.     See  Coucy. 
Cyfrowast,  Cyphrcwast,  Godfrey,  70. 

,  ....  son  of  Roger,  334. 

Cyntelegh.     See  Sjaitcle. 
C3-phre\vast.     See  Cyfrowast. 
Cysell,  William,  burgess  of  Li.skeard 

in  parliament,  613. 


Dabernoun,  Daubernoun,  John,  86. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  sheriff  of  Cornwall,  29, 

30. 

,  Thomas,  coroner  of  Devon, 

237. 

Dabrache,  Abrache,  409. 

Dabrichecourt,  Elizabeth  wife  of 
Etistace,  408. 

,  Eustace,  408. 

]3acre,  Hugh  de,  knight,  338. 

Randolph,     Randolph    de, 

118,  463,  465. 

,  lord  de,  361. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  lord  of  Gilsland,  45. 

]3acton.     See  Acton. 

Dagenhale.    See  Dagnall. 

Dagevj^llo,  William,  burgess  of  Ox- 
ford in  parliament,   613. 

Cf.  DayviUe. 

Dagnall,  Dagenhale,  [in  Eddies- 
borough,  CO.  Buckingham!, 
448. 

Dakeneye.  John,  knight  of  the  shire 
of  Bedford,  101. 

Dalby  [co.  Lincoln!,  562. 

,  Great,  Dalby,  co.  Leicester, 

manor  of,  374. 

,  Little,  CO.  Leicester,  2. 

Dalby,  Thomas  de,  butcher,  449. 

,  William  de,  547. 

Dale,  Thomas  de,  knight,  377. 

,  William,  492. 

Dalgarnok,  Adaui  de,  merchant  of 
Aberdeen,  64. 


670 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Dalham  [co.  Suffolk],  parson  of.    See 

Byritro,  Ellis  de. 
Dalicote,  William  de,  356. 
Dalling.     See  Field  Dalliug. 
Dalliuglioo,  Dcilyuglioo,  oo.  Suffolk, 

advowson  of,  5G5. 

,  manor  of,  505. 

Dalston,  co.  Cumborland,  Skiprigg  in, 

521. 
Dalton  [in  Wigan],  co.  Lancaster,  54, 
Dalton     Ryell     [in     Kirkby 

Ravensworth],  co.  York,  528. 
Dalton,  Ellen  wife  of  John  de,  54,  56. 

,  John  de,  knight,  54. 

,  .....  knight  of  the  shiro  of 

Lancaster,  100. 
,  .  .  .  . ,   of    Kirby   Misperton, 

112. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Yorkshire,  532. 

,  John  son  of  John  de,  54. 

, knight,  355. 

Dalynghoo.     See  Dallinghoo. 
Dalyngrcgge,    Dalyngi'igge,    Dalyn- 

rugge,    de    Elinerugge,    Elin- 

rugge,  Roger,  174,  185,  276. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  sliire  of 

Oxford,  101,  288. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  purveyor  of  com  for 

Calais,  212. 
Damas,  Richard,  chaplain,  324, 
Damesele,  Ralph,  288. 
Damet,  Geoffrey,  540. 
Damniory,       Dammery,       Damory, 

Elizabeth  daughter  of  Roger, 

377,  378. 

,  Isabel,  377. 

,  Joan  daughter  of  Roger,  377. 

,  Nicholas,  loiight,  12,  120. 

,  Richard,  Icnight,  419. 

,  Roger,  378. 

Danby,  co.  York,  77. 

,    lord     of.        See     Latimer, 

William. 
Dandreo.     See  Andreo. 
Dandy,  John,  of  Wales,  the  king's 

prover,  499. 
Dane,    Dane,    Thomas,    burgess    of 

Southwark  in  parliament,  297, 

316. 

Cf.  Dawe. 

Daneys,  Elizabeth  wife  of  Roland, 

1,  2. 
,  John    son  of  Oliver,  cousin 

of  Roland,  1,  521. 

,  Roland,  521. 

Dannebury,     Donnebury,     William, 

600-602. 
Dansey.     See  Daimteseye. 
Danyel,  Jolui,  592. 
Daper,  Walter,  583. 


Darcy,  Elizabeth  wife  of  John,  531. 

John,  lord  of  Knaith,    104. 

,   .  .  .  .,  of  Knaith,  531. 

Philip    brother  of  Jolm  son 

of  John,  531. 
Dare,  John,  331. 
Darel,  Darell,  Marmaduke,  verderer 

in  Galtres  forest,   9. 
William,  verderer  in  Galtres 

forest,  237,  362. 
Darley,  Derley,  co.  Derby,  509. 
DarnalJ,    Robert,    of    Brymmesford, 

417. 
Dart,  East,  Estderte  [in  Witheridgo], 

CO.  Devon,  fee  in,  523. 
Dartford,  Derteford  [co.  Kent],  96, 

344,  536. 

,  deed  acknowledged  at,  344. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  96,  344,  345. 

,  house  of  the  friars  preachers 

of  St.  Mary  and  St.  Margaret, 

96. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  Maud  prioress  and  con- 
vent of,  344. 
,  .  .  .  .,   prioress   of,    55,    518, 

590. 
,  ....,....,  lady  of  Hatcham, 

57. 

,  High  Street  of,  345. 

,  Trovilles  lane  in,  345. 

Dartmouth,   Dertmuth,   co.   Devon, 

51    264. 
,  bailiffs  of,  51,  115,  201,  264, 

385. 
,  burgess    of,    in    parliament, 

298. 
,  lieiitenant  of  the  admiral  of 

the  fleet  in.     See  Bodelsalle, 

Benedict  de. 

,  mayor  of,  51,  385. 

,  men  of,  385,  488. 

,  port  of,  488,  489. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  keepers  of  the  passage 

in,  449. 
Dartret.     See  Artm*et. 
Darundel,  Dartmdell.     See  Arundel. 
Darwen,    Over,    Overderwend,    co, 

Lancaster,  manor  of,  500. 
Dassett,  Dei'sete  [co.  Warwick],  334, 
Dastyn,    Juliana,    wife    of    Stephen 

Spere,  555. 
,  Thomas     son     of      Walter, 

knight,  83. 
Daubeneye,      Elizabeth        (Giffard) 

sister  of  Richard,  47. 

,  Ralph,  Ralph  de,  29,  31,  254. 

Daubernoiui.     See  Dabernoun. 
Daudele.     See  Audele. 
Dane.     See  Dane. 
Daukynesone,  Roger,  351. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


671 


Daumarlo,  Jolm,  colloctor  of  subsidy 

in  Devonsliire,  224. 

,  kiiight,  83. 

Daumartyn,     John,     clerk    of      the 

cardinal    [William]    do    Agri- 
folio,  3G0. 
Daimav,    Dawonay,    Thomas,    446, 

'440,  406,  473,  474. 
Daimtesoyo,  Dansoy,  Joan  (de  Ba- 

vent)  wife  of  Jolm,  518. 

,  Jolm,  knight,  309,  518,  590. 

,  Mand  wife  of  Walter,  125. 

,  Philip  do,  421. 

Daunvers.     See  Auvers. 
Dautro.     See  Dantry. 
Dautres,  Richard,  566,  569. 
Dautry,  Dautro,   Jolm,  of  London 

324. 

,  ....  son  of  John,  141. 

,  Thomas,  coroner  of  co.  York, 

135. 
Dauvers,  Edmund,  562. 

,  Edward,  597. 

,  Hugh  son  of  William,  451. 

Daventry,  Davontro  [co.  Northamp- 
ton],   prior   and   convent   of, 

340,  346. 
Davidstow,  co.  Cornwall,  Treglaston, 

Treglasta      and      Trevixaan, 

Treux'^'an  in,  439. 
Davington,   Davyntone   [co.    Kent], 

585,  586. 

,  deed  dated  at,  586. 

Davy,  Nicholas,  427. 

,  Thomas,  448. 

Davjnitone.     See  Davington. 
Dawe,  Roger,  clerk  of  the  bishop  of 

Hereford,  477. 

Cf.  Dane. 

Dawenay.     See  Daunay. 
Day,  William,  of  Brandsby,  159,  255. 
Dayl^com•t.    See  Dejnncoiu't. 
Daysoule,      Robert,      of      Welling- 
borough, 69. 
Dayvenant,  Nicholas,   492. 
Dayville,  Goscelin,  traitor,   7. 

,  John,  of  Laxton,  481. 

Cf.  Dage\'ylle. 

Dean,  Dene,  forest  of  [co.  Gloucester], 

keeper  of.      See  Brione,  G\iy 

de. 

,  .  .  . . ,  mines  in,  258. 

,   East,   CO.    Sussex,    Berling, 

Berlyng  in,   570. 
,  West,  Westdene  by  Seaford, 

Sefforde,  co.  Sussex,  manor  of, 

21. 
Detme,    Dene,    Dene    Mauduyt,    co. 

Hants,  advowson  of.  111. 
,  deed  dated  at,  112. 


Deane — cont. 

,  manor  of.  111. 

,  parson    of.      See    Mauduyt, 

Bugo. 
Debden,  Dopeden,  co.  Essex,  manor 

of,  496. 

,  Reynold  pArson  of,  573. 

debt,  plea  of,  176. 

Deeping,  Estdepyng,  co.  Lincoln,  92. 

Doepwade,    Depwado    Inuidred,    co. 

Norfolk,  constable  of,  490. 
Deest.     See  Diest. 
Deistero.     See  Dexter. 
Delce,   Groat,   Great  Dels  by  Rou- 

chestre,    in     Rochester,     co. 

Kent,  465,  532. 
Dolham,  Roger  de,  71,  72. 
Dels.     See  Delce. 
Delves,  Elizabeth  wife  of  Jolin  de, 

214. 
,  John,  John  de,  laiight,  38, 

74,  75,  80,  81. 
Denardeston.    See  Denston. 
Denboude,  John  son  of  Thomas,  221. 

,  Thomas,  221. 

Denbrigge,  John,  chaplain,  533. 

Dene.     See  Dean,  Deane. 

Dene,  Richard  atte,  74. 

,  William    atte,     burgess     of 

High  Wycombe  in  parliament, 

298,  61.3. 
Denforth,  Richard,  clerk,  536. 
Dengayne,  John,  knight,  587. 
Katherino  wife  of  Thomas, 

3,  367. 

,  Thomas,  knight,  3. 

Cf.  IngajTie. 

Denham,  co.  Suffolk,  fees  in,  493. 

Denham,  Alan  de,  550. 

Denston,  Denardeston,  co.   Suffolk, 

manor  of,  415. 
Denton,  co.  Himtingdon,  452. 
Denton,  John  de,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Cumberland,  476. 
,  verderer  of  Inglewood 

forest,  414,  514. 
,  son  of  Jolm,  of  New- 
castle-upon-Tyne, 343. 

,  Robert  de,  chaplain,  321. 

Depeden.     See  Debden. 
Depedene,  Richard,  66. 
Depe.nhale.     See  Dippenliall. 
Depham,  Jolm,  John  de,  189,  190. 

,  . .  .  . ,  of  London,  585. 

Depwade.     »See  Deepwado. 
Derby  [co.  Derby],  bailiffs  of,  524. 
,  burgesses  of,  summoned  to 

parliament,   101,  298. 

,  farm  of,  524. 

Derby,  county  of,  337,  473,  563,  572. 


072 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Derby,  county  of — cont. 

,  coroners  of,  162,  358,  367. 

csclieator  in.     See  Fouclier, 

John  ;     Grcnolmll,    Thomas  ; 

Twj-forcl,  Robert. 
knightb  of  the  sliire  of,  100, 

289,  298,  316,  476,  612. 
,  sheriff  of,  41,  162,  209,  298, 

358.  367,  476. 

,  taxation  in,  423. 

Derby,  John,  John  de,  of  Duffield, 

239. 

,  of  Horsley,  239. 

,   .  .  . . ,    servant    of    Jolin    de 

Mowbray,  of  Axliohne,  253. 
,  Nicholas    do,    of     Horsley, 

239. 
,  Robert  de,   cliamberlain  of 

the  excliequer,  77. 

, ,  clerk,  21,  22. 

,  Stephen,  473. 

,  .  .  . . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Dorset,  476. 

,  Walter,  151,  152,  259,  538. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  burgess  of  Bristol  in 

parliament,  613. 
Dereham,     East,     Estderham     [co. 

Norfolk],     parson     of.       See 

Fymmer,  Simon. 
,  West,  Derliam  [co.  Norfolk], 

abbot  of,  413. 
Derewyne,  Jolm,  601. 
Derliam.     See  Dereham. 
Derlay,  Roger  son  of  Thomas  de,  254. 
.......  Swan    do,    253. 

,  Thomas  brother  of  Swan  de, 

254. 
,  Thomas  son  of  Swan  de,  253, 

254. 
Derley.     Sec  Darley. 
Derneford,  John  de,  222. 
Derseto.     See  Dassett. 
Dersham,  Geoffi'ey,  coroner  of  Essex, 

8. 
Derteford.     See  Dartford. 
Dertmiith.     See  Dartmouth. 
Derwent,  river,  co.  Derby,  564,  565. 
,  . .  . .,  CO.  York,   justices   to 

observe  and  keep,  163. 
Derwentwatre,   John  de,   knight  of 

the    shire    of    Westmoreland, 

100. 
Deschalers,  Amice  (de  Whelnetham) 

wife  of  TJiomas,  knight,  471. 

,  Thomas,  359,  420. 

Desmond,       Dessemixnd,       Eleanor 

countess,    231. 
Despayne.     See  Spaigne. 
Despenser,  Dispenser,  Edward  lord 

le,  61,  158. 


Despenser — cont. 

,  Hugh  le,  34,  35,  507. 

,  son  of  Hugh  le,  earl  of 

Winchester,  117. 

tho  elder,  377. 

the  younger,  377. 

Cf.  Spencer. 

Dessomimd.     See  Desmond. 
Detchant,  Dychand  fin  Belford,  co. 

Northumberland],  fee  in,  448. 
detenuo,  plea  of,  176. 
Deuelek.     See  Duleek. 
Deusbury,   John,   541. 
Devenhale.    See  Dipi^enJiall. 
Devenisshe,    Devenyssh,     Elizabeth 

wife    of    Thomas,    511,    512, 

513. 
,  Joan     Blaunche     relict     of 

John,    skinner,    of     London, 

.545,  551. 

,  Thomas,  513,  551. 

Devereux,        Devorois,        Deveros, 

Deverus,  John,  knight,  401. 

,  William,  knight,  318,  319. 

,  .....  of  Bodenham,  560. 

,  .  .  .  . ,      .  .  .  . ,     coroner     and 

sheriff  of  co.  Hereford,  236. 
Devizes,  Vyse  [co.  Wilts],  castle  of, 

constable   of,    323. 
Devon,  county  of,  89,  100,  171,  192, 

459,  562,  583,  599. 
,  coroners  of,  8,  9,  135,   162, 

237,  363. 

,  defence  of  coast  of,  215. 

,  earl  of.    See  Coxirtney,  Hugh 

de. 
,  escheator  in,   12,   222,     See 

also    Chambemoim,    Tliomas 

de  ;    Chejme,  Thomas  ;  Mat- 

tesford,     John  ;      W^askliam, 

John. 

,  farm  of,  223. 

,  guardians  of  the  peace  and 

jvistices  of  oyer  and  terminer 

in,  58. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  100, 

289,  298,  316,  476,  612. 
,  lieutenant  of  the  admiral  in, 

371,  502. 

,  mines  in,  106,  107,  563. 

,  sheriff  of,  8,  9,  107,  116,  135, 

162,  203,  223,  237,  298,  321, 

363,   476,   500,   531. 
,  taxation  in,  224,   317,   537, 

538. 
Devorois.     See  Devereux. 
Dexter,  Deistere,  Deyster,  Richard, 

324. 

,  WiUiam,  561,  568. 

, ,  of  Hallaton,  570. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


673 


Deyncourt,       DajTicourt,       Kobert 

brother  of  Thomas,  12,  24. 

, ,  kiiight,  73,  446,  555. 

Thomas,  12,  24. 

William,  12,  24. 

Deynes,  John,  226. 
Doyster.     See  'Dcxivr. 
Dickleburgli,      Diclobiirgh,      Dikel- 

burgh,  CO.  Norfolk,  378. 

manor  of,  375. 

Dickson,  John,  of  Kingsloy,  355. 
Dicloburgh.      iSee   Dickleburgli. 
Didcot,  i])odecote,  co.  Berks,  manor 

of,  197,  199. 
Didling,      Dudelyng,      co.      Sussex, 

manor  of,  407. 
Diere.     See  Dyoro. 
dies  for  coins,   526. 
Diest,  Deost  [Belgium,   Soutli   Bra- 
bant],    324.' 

,  cloth  of,  324. 

Digby,  Robert,  knight  of  the  sliire 

of  Leicester,  612. 
Digge,  Dyggo.  Roger,  73,  330,  332, 

345,  486,  585. 

,  .  .  . .,  of  Kent,  110. 

Digmue.     See  Dixmude. 
Dikolburgh.     See  Dickleburgh. 
Dilham,  co.  Norfolk,  360. 
Dilwyn    [co.    Hereford],    Swanston, 

Svveyneston  in,  189,  326. 
Dingley,  Dyngele  [co.  Northampton], 

Thomas  parson  of,  547. 
Dirmington,  DonjTigton,  Dynyngton, 

CO.  York,  377. 
Dinsley.    See  Temple  Dinsley. 
Dippenhall,   Depenhale,   Devenhale, 

[by  Farnham.  co.  Surrey],  110. 

,  manor  of,  110. 

,  road  from,  to  Farnham  park, 

175. 
Diptford,  Dupfoid,  co.  Devon,  ad- 

vowson  of,  393. 
,  Du}.^forde  [near  Brampton, 

CO.  Devon],  fee  in,  339,  523. 
Diricsone,  Nicholas,  of  Caunfare,  362. 
Diseworth,  Doseworthe,  co.  Leicester, 

advowson  of,  274. 
Dispenser.     See  Despensor. 
Diss,    Dj-sse   hxmdred,    co.   Norfolk, 

constable  of,  490. 
Ditchling,   DychenjTig,    co.    Sussex, 

405. 
Ditton,    Ditton    by    Colbroke     [in 

Stoke    Poges,    co.     Bucking- 
ham], deed  dated  at,  175. 

,  CO.  Kent,  68,  69. 

Camois,    Camoys    [in  Wood 

Ditton],  CO.  Carabridge,  manor 

of,  182-185. 


Ditton — cont. 

,  Fen,  Dytton,  Fendytton  [co. 

Cambridge],  456. 

,  deed  dated  at,  456. 

Ditton,  Geoffrey  do,  68. 

Dixmude,    Digmue  .  [W.    Flanders], 

chatolain  of,  300. 
Dockyng.  Thomeis,  71. 
Dod,  John,  drawyer.  611. 
,  Thomas,  mercer  of  London, 

323. 
Doddington,  Dudyngton  [co.  Kent], 

Richard  vicar  of,  189,  190. 
Dodecote.     See  Didcot. 
Dodoford.    See  Dodford. 
Dodescote.     See  Dodscot. 
Dodford,  Dodeford,   co.  Northamp- 
ton, manor  of,   145. 
,  .  .  .  . ,    farmers    of,    named, 

145. 
Dodscot,  Dodescote  [in  St.  Giles  in 

the  Wood],  CO.  Devon,  fee  in, 

339,  343,  523. 
Dodyngton,  Henry  de,  420. 
Doget,  Jolm,  citizen  of  London,  97, 

533. 

,  Walter,  24,  25. 

dogs,  sale  of  food  for,  519. 

Dokesworth.    SeeDuxford. 

Dokliam,  Walter,  82. 

Doly.     See  Doyly. 

Don,  Done,  river,  co.  York,  justices 

to  observe  and  keep,  163. 
Donaghmore    [co.    Kildare]  ?    Don- 

mawe,  manor  of,   164. 
Doncaster,  Doncastre  [co.  York],  98. 

,  bailiffs  of,  482. 

,  deed  acknowledged  at,  572. 

Donclent,  John,  96. 

Done.     See  Don. 

Donesby,  John,  canon  o6  Sempring- 

ham,  228. 
Donet,  John,  of  London,  325,  329. 
Donewic.    See  Dunwich. 
DongevUle.     See  Angoville. 
Donham,  Robert  de,  147. 

Cf.  Doimham. 

Donhevedbiu-gh.    See  Laimceston. 
Dormington,  Donyngton,  co.  Lincoln, 

92,  141. 
Donkeley,  Roger,  355. 
Domnawe.     See  Donaghmore  ? 
Doruiebury.     See  Dannebury. 
Donton,  John  de,  449. 

, of  Cambridgeshire.  338. 

Donwj'ghe,  Donwyght.     See  Doun- 

wych. 
Donyngham.     See  Dullingham  ? 
DonjTigton.      See  Dinnington,  Don- 

nington. 

CR  43  ■ 


674 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Donynp;ton,    John    do,   skinner,    of 

London,  284. 
Door.    See  Dore. 
Doos    [in   Watton  ?],    co.   Hertford, 

manor  of,  570. 
Dorchester,  Dorchestro,  co.  Dorset, 

317. 
,  l)urgess    of,    in    parliament, 

298. 
Dorch'eclit,     Dm'draght     in     Zeland 

[Smitli  Holland],  245. 
,  tchevins,  consuls  and  com- 
monalty of,  366. 
Dore,    Door,    Joan    (Inge)    wife    of 

Roger,  50,  129. 

,  Roger,  76,  82,  129,  132. 

Dormethorp,     Richard,     parson     of 

Rippingale,  458. 
Dome,  Jolm,  of  Gloucestershire,  425. 
Dorset,  connty  of,  473. 

,  archdeaconry  of,   147. 

,  coroners  of,  8,  221. 

,  defence  of  coast  of,  215. 

,  escheators  in.     See  Cheyne, 

Edmund  ;    Cheyne,  William  ; 

More,  Adam  atte. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  100, 

290,  298,  316,  476,  612. 
,  lieutenant  of  the  admiral  in, 

371,  502. 
,  sheriff  of,   8,    16,    116,    192, 

203,  209,  213,  221,  255,  292, 

298,  476,  531,  596.     See  also 

Hale,  John  atte. 

,  taxation  in,  317,  537. 

Dorsete,  Richard,  of  Enfield,  599. 
Dorton,  Dorton    tmder    Bernewode, 

CO.  Buckingham,  331. 

,  deed  acknowledged  at,  336. 

Doseworthe.     See  Diseworth. 
Douce,  Erueys,  205. 

,  Robert,  205. 

Douel,  Walter,  551,  552. 
DoughtJ^  Dughty,  John,  324. 

,  Thomas,  538. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  biitcher,  449. 

Douglas,  William,  earl  of,  of  Scot- 
land, 338. 
Doime,  John,  309. 

, clerk,  434. 

DounecoTU't.    See  Down  Farm. 
Dounham.     See  Downham. 
Dounham,    Richard    de,    parson    of 

Little  Laver,  71. 

Cf.  Donham. 

Dounom.     See  Downham. 
Dounwych,    Donwyghe,   Donwj'^ght, 

Sir  Walter,  Walter  de,   348, 

354. 
Douvre.    See  Dover, 


Dovocotirt.    See  Dovercourt. 

Dover,  Douvi-o,  Dovorre  [co.  Kent], 
50,  299.  302. 

,    baUiffs   of,    115,    188,    201, 

505. 

castle,  constable,  warden  of, 

25,  302,  384.  See  also  Guide- 
ford,  Andrew  de  ;  Latimer, 
William ;  Pembruggo,  Richard 
de  ;  Spigurnoll,  Ralph. 

,     .  .  .  .,    lieutenant     of. 

See  Reynes,  Thomas. 

,  honoui-  of,  275. 

,  keeper   of  victuals  in. 

See  below  under  Maison  Dieu. 

,  maintenance  of  chap- 
lain, etc.  in,  155. 

,   piu'veyor    of    victuals 

for.  See         Tetlyngbury, 

William  de. 

,  receiver  of.     See  Tide- 
combe,  William  de. 

repair  of,  166,  381. 

,    service   of   rendering 

10s.  a  year  to  ward  of,  2. 

,     ....      of      rendering 

2s.  2d.  every  24th  week  to 
ward  of,  210. 

,  fleet  between  Calais  and,  32. 

,  Maison   Dieu,   Domus   Dei, 

Alexander  master  of,  keeper 
of  victuals  in  Dover  castle, 
528. 

,  ....,   master   of,    166,   381, 

384. 

,  mayor  of,  188. 

,  port  of,  32,  562. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  keepers  of  passage  in , 

302,  312,  314,  320,  387,  423, 
426,  449,  456,  467,  471,  477, 
542,  559,  562,  594. 

,  receiver  of.    See  Tidecombo, 

William  de. 

,  St.  Martin,  prior  of,  381. 

Dovercourt,  Dovecourt  [co.  Essex], 

manor  of,  376. 
Dovere,  Doveria,  Dovorre,  Nicholas 
de,     master     of    hospital     of 
Biu-ton  Lazars,  78,  432,  437, 
438. 
Dovey.     See  Dovy. 
Dovorre.    See  Dover,  Dovere. 
Dovy,  Dovey,  John,  279,  536,  592. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  291, 

323,  343. 

,  Katherine  wife  of  John,  291, 

343. 

,  Richard,  356. 

dower,   3,  12,  19,  46,  125,  126,  141 
145,  146,  163,  242,  291,  336, 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


675 


dower — cont. 

377,  395,  405,  408,  468,  409, 
473,  474,  48G,  487,  53G,  543, 
561,  569,  588,  593. 

,  action  of,  191,  473,  496,  543. 

assignment  of,  4,  21,  30,  31, 

40,  45,  49,  51,  56,  60,  62, 
63,  91,  118-120,  125,  131,  133, 
140-142,  144,  151,  156,  159, 
160,  166,  190,  196,  232,  235, 
272-274,  309-312,  339,  342, 
348-358,  368,  370,  382,  395- 
397,  412,  413,  491-496,  498, 
508,  511,  512,  528. 
,  writ  of,  473. 

Doweson,  Jolin,  of  Hackness,  541. 

Down  Farm  ?  Doimecoiirt  in  West 
Wittenliani,  co.  Berks,  93. 

Downham,  Dounom  [in  Whalloy,  co. 
Lancaster],  Raven's  Holme, 
Ravensholmo  in,  169. 

Santon,  Doimham,  co.  Suf- 
folk, fees  in,  492,  493. 

Dowms,  the,  [off  coast  of  Kent],  404. 

Doyly,  Doly,  Tliomas,  68,  451. 

Doyquina,  Peter  de,  master  of  la 
Made  Sterlyng,  488. 

Drakelow^e,  Thomas  son  of  Thomas, 
79. 

Drano,  Richard,  349. 

Draper,  John,  of  Aylesbmy,  544. 

Drax  [co.  York],  manor  of,  490. 

Drax,  Richard  de,  566. 

,  Robert,  clerk,  426. 

Draycote,  Jolm  de,  kniglit  of  the 
sliire  of  Stafford,  289. 

,  Robert  de,  prior  of  St.  Mary, 

Elsing  Spittle,  London,  295. 

Draycot  Foliat,  Draycote,  co.  Wilts, 
manor  of,  557. 

Drayton,  co.  Berks,  535. 

[in  Bigliton,  co.  Hants],  193. 

[co.  Leicester  ?],  224. 

[in  Lowick],  co.  Northamp- 
ton, 48,  53. 

Basset,  Drayton  [co.  Staf- 
ford], 66,  155. 

,  Dry,  Driedrayton  [co.  Cam- 
bridge], manor  of,  70. 

,  Fen,  Dreiton  [co.  Cam- 
bridge], 376. 

...... -in-Haies,  co.  Salop,  Longs- 
low,  \\lonkeslowe  in,  62. 

See  Dryton. 

Drayton,  Agnes  (Ast"\vyk)  wife  of 
Jolm  de,  74. 

,  Edmund  de,  237,  373. 

,  John  de,  74. 

,  . .  . . ,  hayw-ard  and  warrener 

of  Bray,  155. 


Drayton — cont. 

Maud  wife  of  Edmund  de, 

237,  373. 

,  riiilip  de,  84. 

Drengp,  William,  of  Lockington, 
202. 

,   ....     son    'of    William,     of 

Lockington.  202. 

Dreylond,  John,  586. 

Drie,  Jolm,   575. 

Driedrayton.     See  Drayton. 

Droglieda,  Droghda  [cos.  Louth  and 
Meath],  246. 

,  biu'gessos  of,  265. 

mayor,  steward  and  com- 
monalty and  true  men  of, 
246,   259,   265. 

,  mayor   of.      See   Frombold, 

John. 

Droitwicli,  tlie  Wycho,  Wiche, 
Wycho,  CO.  Worcester,  108, 
109,  453,  454,  455,  591. 

Dronsfeld,  Edmimd  do,  579. 

,  John  do,  477. 

Dros,  Wilh'am,  of  Cotton,  356. 

Drulo,  Jolm,  72. 

Driu-y,  Hem'y,  escheator  in  Worces- 
tershire, 375. 

,  William,  76. 

Dry  Drayton.    See  Drayton. 

Drycstoke.    See  Stoke  Dry. 

Dryton,  Drayton  by  Abbots  Eyton 
[in  Wroxeter],  co.  Salop, 
237. 

Dublin,  D^^'eljTi,  Ireland,  254. 

,  citizens  of,  246. 

,  court  of,  254. 

,  dean  of,  328. 

,  exchequer  of.    See  Ireland. 

,      mayor     and     bailiffs     of, 

254. 

,   ....  and  coinmonalty,  246, 

259,  265,  266. 

,  parliament  at,  380. 

,  prison  at,  267. 

Dublin,  Dj^'eljni,  county  of,  com- 
mons of,  259. 

Duchesne,  Peter,  merchant  of  Brit- 
tany, 32. 

Duck,  Richard,  99. 

Duckmanton,  Dugmanton  [in  Sut- 
ton], CO.  Derby,  509. 

Dudelyng.     See  Didling. 

DudjTigton.     See  Doddington. 

Duffeld,  Thomas,  clerk,  481. 

Duffield,  Duffeld  [co.  Derby],  239. 

Dughty.    See  Doughty. 

Duginanton.     See  Duckmanton. 

Duk.     See  Buk. 

Dukesworth.     See  Duxford, 


676 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Duleek,      Deuelek,      Dyuelek,      co. 

Meath,  house  subordinate  to 

Lanthony  priory  at,  230. 

,  proctor  of,  495. 

,  manor  of,  395. 

Dullingliam  [co.  Cambridge]  ?  Don- 

jmgham,  537. 
Dulsey,  William,  clerk,  238,  512. 
Dultyn,  James  van,  483. 
Dimibelton,  John,  401. 
Dummer,  Dummero,  co.  Hants,  ad- 

vowson  of,  74. 

manor  of,  74. 

,  .  . . . ,  deed  dated  at,  75. 

Diunpford,    Dynford    [in    Trotton], 

CO.  Sussex,  manor  of,  407. 
Dunchurch,  co.  Warwick,  Thiu-laston 

in,  374. 
Dundry,    Dundray,     co.     Somerset, 

coroner  for  parts  of,  57. 
Dunemowe.     See  JDunmow. 
dung,  removal  of,  438. 
Dunham,  co.  Nottingham,  548,  554. 

,  deed  dated  at,  554. 

Dimkanson,  John,  of  Berwick-upon- 
Tweed,  218. 
Dumnow,  Dimmowe,  co.  Essex,  509. 

,  Great,  co.  Essex,  101,   102. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  Marks,  Merkes,  Mer- 

keshall  in,  327,  485,  486. 
,  Little,  Dunmawe,  co.  Essex, 

prior  of,  492. 
Dunmowe,  Dunemowe,  John  de,'569. 

,  Peter,  532. 

Thomas,  323. 

Dunnesby.     See  Dunsby. 

Dunnyng,  John,  426. 

Dunsby,    Dunnesby    [co.    Lincoln], 

197,  198. 
Dvmsforth,   Upper,   Little  Dimsford 

[in  Aldborough],  co.  York,  7. 
Dunstall.    See  Timstall. 
Dunster,   Dunsterre   [co.   Somerset], 

lord  of.    See  Mohun,  John  de. 
Dimton,  CO.  Bedford,  Millow,  Milneho 

in,  376. 
Dunwich,  Donewic,  co.  Suffolk,  bvu"- 

gess  of,  in  parliament,  299. 
Dupeford,  Dupford.    See  Diptford. 
Durant,  Richard,  coroner  of  Buck- 
inghamshire,  9. 
Durburgh,  Hugh,  clerk,  433. 
,  . .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Somerset,  476. 
Durdraght.     See  Dordrecht. 
Diu-em,  Alice  sister  of  Richard  de, 

111. 
Durham,  320,  361. 
,  archdeacon  of.    See  Neville, 

Alexander  de. 


D  urhara — cont. 

arrays  in,  361,  362. 

bishop     of.       See    Hatfeld, 

Thomas  de. 

his  council,  320. 

,  . .  .  . ,  sheriff  of.     See  Mene- 

vUle,  William  de. 

,  diocese  of,  252. 

,  liberty  of,  19,  362,  483. 

,  prior  and  chapter  of,  463, 464. 

Duxford,  Dokesworth,  Dukesworth, 

CO.  Cambridge,  376. 

,  manor  of,  266. 

Dychand.     See  Detchant. 
Dychenyng.     See  Ditchling. 
Dye,  Nicholas,  of  Ludlow,  80. 
Dyere,    Diere,    Jolm,    of    Uxbridge, 

428. 
Richard,    bailiff    of    Bridg- 
water, 369. 

,  Stephen,  of  Uxbridge,  428. 

,  William,  349. 

Dygge.    See  Digge. 

Dyghton,  William  de,  clerk,  598. 

Dylioim,  John,  592. 

Dymenel,  William,  540. 

Dymmok,  John,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Lincoln,  476,  611. 
Dyne,  James  de  Petro,  of  Florence, 

attorney     of     merchants     of 

Venice,*^216,  217. 
Dynelay,    Dyneley,    Alice    wife    of 

Richard  de,  156. 

,  Henry  de,   170. 

,  ....  son  of  Richard  de,  156, 

326. 
DjTieslee    Furnyval.      See    Temple 

Dinsley. 
Dynford.     See  Dimipford. 
DjTigel,      Dyngeleye,      John,      the 

yoimger,  431. 
,  William,  parson  of  Ropsley, 

584,  590,  591. 
Dyngele.    See  DingleJ^ 
DjTigeley.    See  Dyngel. 
Dynyngton.     See  Dinnington. 
Dysse.     See  Diss. 
Dysworth,  John  de,  155. 
Dytton.     See  Ditton. 
Dyuelek.     See  Duleek. 
Dyvelyn.     See  Dublin. 


Earlham,  Erlham  [co.  Norfolk],  333, 
334. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


677 


Eai-lsj  Colue.     See  Colne. 

Croonie.     See  Croomo. 

Stonham.     See  Stonham. 

Earlstone,   Erleston  [in  Burghclere, 

CO.  Hants],  manor  of,  551. 
Earsliani,  Ersliani,  co.  Norfolk,  half 

luiiulrcd  of,  375. 
Easol,   Escholo   [in  Nonington],   co. 

Kent,  manor  of,  108. 
Eastbiirj',     Estbiiry     [in     Chipping 

Lambourn],   co.   Berks,  deed 

dated  at,  81. 
Eastcoulyng.     See  Cooling. 
Etkstor,      Good,      Godithestro      [co. 

Ef?sex],  600,  602. 

,  deed  dated  at,  602. 

Eastoft,  Estoft  [in  Crowle,  co.  Lin- 
coln], 566. 
Easton,  Eston  [in  South  Stoke],  co. 

Lincoln,  339. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  396. 

Great,    Eston    by    Kokyng- 

ham,  CO.  Leicester,  74. 
Maiidit,   Eston    [co.   North- 
ampton], deed  dated  at,  73. 
,  lord    of.       See    Wolf, 

William. 
Neston,       Estneston,        co. 

Northampton,  manor  of,  47. 
Sewardsley,     Seward- 

esle  priory  in,  47. 
Eastwell,  Estwoll,  co.  Kent,  20. 

,  manor  of,  21. 

Eaton,  Eton  [co.  Norfolk],  333,  334. 
,  . . . . ,  vicar  of.     See  Fayre- 

man,  Walter. 
,  GnatjTagton  [in  Sedgeford], 

CO.  Norfolk,  manor  of,  175. 
Constantine,    Eton    Costan- 

tjTi,  CO.  Salop,  373. 
Soeon,  CO.  Bedford,  Beggary, 

la  Begerye  in,  417. 

,  Water.     See  Water  Eaton. 

Eccles,  Rej-nold  de,  64,  171,  340,  547, 

560,  564,  565,  569,  597. 
Ecclesfield,    Ecclesfeld    [co.    York], 

priory    of,     monk    of.       See 

Biirdet,  Jolm. 
,  . .  . . ,  prior  of.    See  Burdet, 

John. 

,  rectory  of,  594. 

,  vicar      of.        See  Fiilmere, 

WiUiam. 

,  vicarage  of,  594. 

Echyngham.     See  Etchingheun. 

Ecleshale.    See  Exhall. 

Eclj-nton.    See  Ickleton. 

Ecton.     See  Etton. 

Edburton,     co.     Sussex,     Perching, 

Perchyng  in,  21. 


Eddlesborough,       Edesburgh       [co. 

Buckingham],  82. 
,  Dagnall,      Dagenhale      and 

Northall,  Northale  m,  448. 
Edelmeton.     See  Edmonton. 
Edenham,  Hcdjaigham,  co.  Lincoln, 

144. 
Edensor,    co.    Derby,    Chatsworth, 

Chattesworth  in,  509. 
Edcsburgh.     See  Eddlesborough. 
Edgar,  king,  410. 
Edgefield,     Eggefeld,     co.     Norfolk, 

manor  of,  379. 
Edlington,     EdlyTigton,     co.     York, 

manor  of,  90. 
Edmerethorp,      Edmerthorp.        See 

Edmondthorpe. 
Edmond,  Edmund,  Adam,  444. 

,  Isabel  wife   of   Adam,    444. 

,  John,  citizen  of  London,  295. 

,  .  .  . . ,  coroner  of  Berkshire, 

171,  280,  386. 
.......  .  .  . . ,  mercer  of  London,  295. 

Edmondthorpe,    Edmerethorp,    Ed- 
merthorp,      CO.       Leicester, 

manor  of,  397. 
,  parson     of.       See     Avikes, 

Robert. 
Edmonton,  Edelmeton,  co.  Middle- 
sex, 292,  546. 
,  deeds   dated   at,    109,   292, 

309. 

,  fishery  at,   109. 

,  vicar     of.       See     Byeston, 

Thomtis. 
Edmund    earl    of    Cambridge,    the 

king's  son,  77,  78,  445,  464, 

514. 
Edmmid.     See  Edmond. 
Ednesore,     Ednessore,     Robert    de, 

skinner,  of  London,  318,  429. 
Edolf,  Stephen,  186. 
Edoim,  Nicholas,  46. 
Edstone,    Great,    co.    York,    North 

Holme,  Northolme  inj  528. 
Edwalton,  co.  Nottingham,  manor  of, 

567. 
Edward  I,  510. 

cheirter  of,  24. 

,  prayers  for,  240. 

Edward    III,     his     admirals.       See 

under  admirals. 
his  attorney.     See  Skill5^lg, 

Michael. 
,  his     butler.       See     Strete, 

Wilham. 
his    chamber,    receiver    of. 

See  Leget,  Helmyng. 
,  .  . . . ,  yeoman  of,  524.     See 

also  Gamboun,  William. 


678 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Edward  III — cont. 
liis  chaiuborlain.     .See  Lati- 
mer, William. 

,  Jiis  daughters.     See  Isabel, 

Joan. 

liis  envoy.    *See  Chaddesden, 

Nicholas  de. 
,  his    esquires.       See    Leget, 

Helniyng;  Spigurnell, Thomas. 
his  falconer.      See   Wyther, 

John. 
,  his  hoiisehold,   chamberlain 

of.     See  Pombrugge,  Richard 

de. 
,  .....  steward  of.     See  Les- 

crope,  Henry  ;   Neville,  Jolm 

lord  de. 
,  . .  . . ,     treasurer     of.       See 

Wakefeld,  Henry. 
,  his  huntsman.    See  TrUlowe, 

Walter. 
,  liis  janitor.     See  Gardyner, 

John. 
,  his  messengers,  posting  ar- 
rangements for,  505. 

,  his  moneyers,  511. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  named,  306. 

,  his  notaries.    See  Branketre, 

John  de  ;  Tiryngton,  William 

de. 
,  his  physician.    See  Wymond- 

ham,  William  de. 
,  his    saddler.      See    Ciu-son, 

Robert. 

,  his  ship,  461. 

,  his     sons.       See     Edmvmd, 

Edward,  John,  Lionel. 
,  his  sport,  arrangements  for, 

592. 
,  his  surgeons.     See  Hayton, 

Roger  ;    Irlond,  Richard  de ; 

Leche,  Richard. 
,  liis    tapicer.      See    Bullok, 

John. 
,  his  wardrober.    See  Snayth, 

Henry. 
,  keeper  of  liis  armour  in  the 

Tower  of  London.     See  Hat- 

feld,  John  de. 
,  ....  of  his  wardrobe  in  the 

Tower  of  London.      See  Sle- 

ford,  John  de. 

,  style  of,  94. 

,    yeoman    of     his    kitchen. 

See  Raundes,  Richard. 
Edward,    prince    of    Aquitaine    and 

Wales,    earl    of    Chester    and 

Cornwall,  29,  35,  65,  74,  78, 

110,   153,   158,  204,  242,  260, 

275,  463,  467,  520,  587. 


Edward,    prince    of  Aquitaine    and 
Wales — cont. 

,  chamberlain    of,    in    North 

Wales.      See    Parys,   Robert. 

,  esquire  of.    .S'ee  lirauncestre, 

Thomas  de. 

,  guardian  of  England,  letters 

close  tested  by,  403,  404,  406, 
409. 

lordships  of,  in  Wales,  497. 

,  muiisters  etc.   of,   in   Corn- 
wall, 270. 

, ,  in  Wales,  62,  65. 

,  rights  of,  271. 

,  steward  of,  in  Cornwall.    See 

Cranewell,  William  de. 

,  staple  of,  368. 

Edward,  John,  50. 

,  .  , .  . ,  clerk,  565. 

Robert,  of  Hackncss,  541. 

Edwyne,  AValter,  176. 
Edwyneston.     See  Idstone. 
Edyngton,      Edyndon,      Edyngdon, 
GUbert  de,  339,  523. 

,  Henry,  Henry  de,  85,  334. 

,  William  de,  bishop  of  Win- 
chester, 120,  134. 
Eggefeld.     See  Edgefield. 
Eggeton.    See  Egton. 
Eglesfeld,  Joan  (Louthre)  daughter 
of  John  de,  108. 

,  John  de,  168. 

Egloskerry,  co.  Cornwall,  Penhele  in, 

86. 
Egi-emont,  Egremond,  co.  Cumber- 
land, manor  of,  31. 
Egton,  Eggeton,  co.  York,  16. 

,  manor  of,  16. 

,  Grosmont    prioiy     in,     16, 

17. 
Eniesford.     See  Eylesford. 
Ekeneldewey.     See  Ikenild  Way. 
Ekton,   John  de,   coroner  of   Berk- 
shire, 8,  16. 
Eland,  Little,  Liteleland  [in  Ponte- 
land],    CO.    Northumberland, 
46,  125. 

See  Holy  Island. 

Elcombe,  Elcoumbe  [in  Wroughton], 

CO.  WUts,  309. 
Eldoford.     See  Old  Ford. 
Eldehalle.     See  Old  HaU. 
Elfer,  Christian,  of  Kent,  175. 
Elinerugge,  Elinrugge.     See  Dalyng- 

regge. 
Eling.  Elyng,  co.  Hants,  manor  of, 
542,  543. 

,  Windsor,  Wyndesore  in,  542, 

543. 
Eliot,  Robert,  of  Boreham,  296. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


679 


Elleringtoii,  Elloryngton  [in  Hftydon, 
CO.  Nortliuiiiborlaud],  manor 
of,  250. 

Ellorton,  Robert  do,  505. 

EUcrtou  upon  Swale,  by  Catoryk  [in 
Catterick,  co.  York],  459. 

Elleryngtoii.    See  Elloriugton. 

EUesborough,  Esolborgli,  Esolbiirgh, 
Hesclbergli,  co.  Buckingham, 
602. 

,  manor  of,  252. 

EUesmoro,  co.  Salop,  Lytho,  Great 
Lithe  in,  15. 

EUesworth,  Greorge,  of  Conington, 
551. 

Ellingliani,  co.  Hants,  Highwood, 
Hej^wode  and  Rockford, 
Rokeford  in,  237. 

,  Elyngham,  co.  Northumber- 
land, manor  of,  448. 

Elm,  Elme  [co.  Somerset],  95. 

,  manor  of,  95. 

Elmbridge,  co.  Worcester,  Pm'shull 
in,  108. 

Elmdon,  Elmeden,  Enieldon,  co. 
Essex,  545,  551. 

Elme.    See  Elm. 

Elmeden.     See  Elmdon. 

Elmole.     See  Elmley. 

Elmesete.     See  Elmsott. 

Elmliam,  William  d(?,  knight,  444. 

Elmley,  Elmele,  co.  Kent,  359. 

Castle,      Elmele,      Elmele 

Castel,  Chastel,  co  Worcester, 
castle  of,  453,  454,  455. 

manor   of,    108,    453, 

454. 

Lovett,   Elnele     Lovet,   co. 

Worcester,  manor  of,  127. 

Elmsall,  North,  Northelmeshale,  co. 
York,  189. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  Mensthorp  and  Wrang- 

brook,  Wrangebroke  in,   189. 

Elrasett,  Elmesete  [co.  Suffolk],  par- 
son of.  See  Ook,  Thomas 
atto. 

Elmsthorpe,  Aylmerestorp,  co.  Lei- 
cester, fee  in,  274. 

Elnele.     See  Elmley. 

Elpliin  [co.  Roscommon],  bishop  of. 
See  Baret,  Thomas. 

Elsted,  CO.  Sussex,  manor  of,  405. 

Elsworth  [co.  Cambridge],  376. 

Elsyng,  Jordan,  Jordan  de,  292,  309, 
546. 

,  Thomas,  323. 

Eltham,  co.  Kent,  69,  467. 

,  bailiff    of.       See    Spalding, 

Wilham. 

deed  dated  at,  69. 


Eltham — cont. 

,  letters   close  dated   at,    55, 

271,  427. 
Eltisloe,  Robert  do,  clerk,  587. 

Thomas  dc,  tho  elder,  587. 

Elvaol,  Eiiiell  [co.  RathiorJ,  manor  of, 

123. 
Ely,  CO.  Cambridge,  bishop  of.     See 

Barnot,  John  ;  Hothiun,  John 

de  ;      Insula,     Thomas     do  ; 

Langham,  Simon. 

,  palace  of,  503. 

,  bishopric  of,  563. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knijghts  and  tenants  of, 

504. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  stock  of,  3. 

,  dioceso  of,   251. 

,  mayor  and  bailiffs  of,    115. 

,  prior  and  convent  of  catho- 

di-al  chm-ch  of,  3,  503,  504. 
Elyng.    See  Eling. 
Elyngham.    See  Ellingham. 
Elyngham,   Robert  de,   of  Norfolk, 

345. 
El3Tigton.     See  Illington. 
Elyngton,  William  do,  loiight,  458. 
Elynson,  William  son  of  Richard,  of 

Ince  Bhmdell,  230. 
Elys,    John,    459. 

,  Thomas,  519. 

,  William,  of  Norfolk,  459. 

Elyvyngton,  Simon  de,  of  Yorkshire, 

449. 
Emberton,  co.  Buckingham,  566. 

,  church  of,  566. 

Emblehope,  Hemilhopo  [in  Thomey- 

burn,    CO.    Northumberland], 

121. 
Erne,  William,  189. 

, ,  of  Cliffe,  85. 

Emeldon.     See  Elmdon. 
Emewell.     See  Emwell. 
Emildon,   Jolin  de,  bailiff  of  New- 
castle-upon-Tyne,   111. 
Empingham,  Empyngham,  co.  Rut- 
land, 19. 
Empnesworth.     See  Emsworth. 
Empyngham.     See  Empingham. 
Emson,  Richard,  of  Crowle,  566. 
Emswortli,  Emjjnesworth,  co.  Hants, 

manor  of,  513. 
Emwell,  Emewell  [in  Norton  Bavant, 

CO.  Wilts],  344. 
Enefeld,  Christhia  wife  of  John,  366, 

367. 
,  Fi-ancis  son  of  John  de,  of 

Middlesex,   546. 

,  John,  366,  367. 

,  ....  son  of  William  de,  43, 

99. 


680 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Euefeld — cont. 

Cf.  Anfeld. 

Enfield,  Enelold,  Enfeld,  co.  Middle- 
sex, 49G,  533,  54G.  599. 

,  deed  dated  at,  54G. 

,  out  pai'k  of,  309. 

Enford,  co.  Wilts,  Cliisenbuiy, 
Chysebury  in,  40. 

Engleton,  William  son  of  Richard  de, 
137n. 

English,  Engleys,  Englis,  Englissh, 
Englys,  Ingleys,  Lengleys, 
Alice  wife  of  Kichard,  523. 

,  ganger  of  wines  and 

water-bailiff  of  Bristol,  25, 
26,  201. 

,  Henry,  182,  565. 

,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Cambridge,  612. 

Richard,  216,  364,  523. 

,  ganger  of   wines   and 

water-bailiff  of  Bristol,  25, 
26. 

,  Thomas  le,  of  Newnham,  82. 

,  William,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Cumberland,  100. 

,  ....   son  of  Richard,   364, 

623. 

Ensfield,  Yenesfeld  [in  Penshurst, 
CO.  Kent],  manor  of,  183,  184, 
185. 

Enson,  Doncardus,  seaman,  20. 

Epworth,  Eppeworth  [co.  Lincoln], 
parson  of.  See  Galby, 
William  de. 

Erboroghfeld,  Robert  de,  clerk,  99. 

Ercall  Magna,  co.  Salop,  Isombridge, 
Isenbrugge  in,  75,  76. 

Erdele.     See  Yardley. 

Eresby,  co.  Lincoln,  manor  of,  379. 

Ergum,  Erghvmi,  Ergom,  Wilham, 
William  de,  knight,  escheator 
in  Cumberland,  521. 

,  . . . . ,   . . . . ,   ....  in  North- 

imibsrland,  515,  521. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  West- 
moreland, 513. 

,  . .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  York- 
shire, 418,  490,  491,  500,  507, 
510,  511,  513,  528,  571. 

Erhethe,  John,  of  Woolwich,  467. 

Erith,  Herehithe  [co.  Kent],  80. 

Erl,  William  le,  parson  of  Greatham, 
513. 

Erlesthorpe,  co.  Leicester,  339. 

Erlestoke,  Thomas,  clerk,  218. 

Erleston.     See  Earlstone. 

Erlham.     See  Earlham. 

Erlyngham.     See  Arlingham. 

Erlyngham,   WiUiam,    259. 


Eruys,   Joan   daugiiter  of    Williain 

205. 
Erpyn,  Joan  wife  of  Robert  son  of 

William,  of  Dicklebm-gh,  378. 
,  Robert   son   of   William,    of 

Dicldeburgh,  378. 
Erringhain,      Irynghame      [in     Old 

Shoreham,   co.    Sussex],    405, 

407. 
Ersham.    See  Earsham. 
Escote.    See  Ascot. 
Escrick,  Eskja'k,  co.  York,  advowson 

of,  377. 
Escudomour,  Peter,  knight,  542. 
Esdik.     See  Esediko. 
Esebui'y,  John,  419. 

Cf.  Estbury. 

Esedike,  Esdik  [in  Wigliill],  co.  York, 

manor  of,  90. 
EsegfU".    See  Esgar. 
Esehole.     See  Easol. 
Eselbergh,    Eselburgh.      See    EUes- 

borough. 
Esenhulle,  Richard  de,  472. 
Esgar,  Esegar,  Adam,  89. 
,  . . . . ,    canon    of    Hereford, 

318,  319. 
EskjTk.    See  Escrick. 
Eslyngton,  Thomas  de,  497. 
esquire,  vise  of,  title,  454. 
See  Edward  III  ;    Edward 

prince      of      Aquitaino     and 

Wales. 
Essex,  coimty  of,  66,  67,  101,   105, 

110,  192,  276,  294,  329,  346, 

429,  446,  539,  577,  595,  597. 

,  coroners  of,  8,  162,  235,  371. 

,  earl  of.      See  Bohun,  Hvma- 

phrey  de. 
,  escheator  in.     See  Bataille, 

John  ;  Chabham,  Thomas  de  ; 

Cressyngham,  Jolin  de  ;  Ket- 

erich,    Roger ;     Welde,    John 

atte  ;   Wolfreton,  Roger  de. 

,  forest  of,  23. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  101, 

289,  299,  316,  476,  612. 
,  sheriff  of,  8-11,  23,  41,  86, 

116,  146,  162,  176,  177,  181, 

194,  195,  209,  235,  263,  281, 

299,  371,  372,  388,  402,  418, 

439,  476,  486,  506,  507,  522. 

See     also     BamjDton,     John ; 

Bassjmgbourne,  Thomas  de  ; 

G^moun,  John. 

,  taxation  in,  90,  424. 

Essex,  John,  285. 

,  William,  279,  285,  323,  536. 

Esshore,  Thomas  de,  116. 
Est,  WiUiam,  533. 


GEXERAL    INDEX. 


G81 


Estbrad(>logh,  co.  Uovon,  foo  in,  523. 
Estbradouliam.     Sec  Bradonliam. 
Estbury.    See  Eastbury. 
Estbury,  Agiios  (tie  Burneby)  wife  of 

Joliu  do,  237. 

Jolin  de,  132    272. 

,  the  elder,  80. 

, the  yoimgor,  237. 

,  of  Berkshire,  80. 

Cf.  Esebiiry. 

Estby,  William,  599. 
Estclaydon.     See  Claydon. 
Estcotom.     See  Coatham. 
Estcoton.     See  Coton. 
Estdepyng.     See  Deeping. 
Estderham.     See  Dereham,  East. 
Estderte.     See  Dart. 
Estfeld,  Estefeld,  Roger,  Roger  de, 

328. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  merchant  of  London, 

325. 

,  Thomas  de,  333,  334. 

Estgronestede.    See  Gr instead,  Eeist. 
Esthamme.     See  Ham. 
Estlambroke.     See  Lambrook. 
Estmallynge,    Estmalljiigg.  See 

Mailing. 
Estmersh  in  Great  and  Little  ICimble 

and  EUesborough,  co.  Buck- 

ingliam,  602. 
Estneston.    See  Eeiston  Neston. 
Estoft.     See  Eastoft. 
Eston.     See  Easton. 
Eston,    Richard    de,    of    Middlesex, 

457. 
,  Thomas,    burgess    of    East 

Grinstead  in  parliament,  101. 
Estpecham.     See,  Peckliam. 
Est  Reed,  Estreed.    See  Reed. 
Estwell.    See  Eastwell. 
EstwTotham.     See  Wretham. 
Estwj'k,  Thomas  de,  56. 
Etal,  Ethale  [in  Ford],  co.  North- 

miiberland,  400. 

,  manor  of,  400. 

Etcliingham,        Echyngham        [co. 

Sussex],  596. 
Ethale.    See  Etal. 
Eton.    See  Eaton. 
Eton,  Florence  wife  of  Joim  de,  373. 

,  Jolm  de,  373. 

Cf.  Etton. 

Etton  [co.  Northampton],  parson  of. 

See  Colne,  John  de. 

[co.  York],  334. 

Etton,  Ecton,  Thomas  de,  580. 

, ,  clerk,  473,  484. 

,  . . . . ,    verderer    of    Galtres 

forest,  237,  362,  363. 
Cf.  Eton. 


Eustace,  Richard,  chaplain,  396. 

See  Fitz  Eustace. 

Evedon,  co.  Lincoln,  534,  535. 

Everard,  Edmund,  knight,  163,  264, 
265. 

,  Felicia  wife  of  Edimmd,  163, 

264,  265,  358. 

Everdon,  Henry,  324. 

Eevero     See  Iver. 

Evarsdon,  Everesdon,  in  Great  and 
Little  Eversden  and  other 
parishes,  co.  Cambridge, 
manor  of,  604. 

,  Little,  CO.  Cambridge,  deed 

dated  at,  604. 

Eversley,  Everslee,  co.  Hants,  manor 
of,   52. 

Everton,  cos.  Bedford  and  Hunting- 
don, 376. 

,  manor  of,  377,  466. 

,  vicar  of.     See  Colyn,  John. 

Everton,  Richard  de,  turcopolier  and 
visitor  of  the  hospital  of  St. 
Jolm  of  Jerusalem  in  Eng- 
land, 568. 

Everyngham,  Adam  de,  of  Laxton, 
knight,  393. 

,  William  de,  393. 

Evesham  [co.  Worcester],  abbot  of, 
280,  307. 

Evesham,  John  de,  escheator  in 
Hants,  15,  48,  52,  56,  62. 

,  .  .  .  . ,    ....   in    Oxfordshire, 

22,  50. 

,  . .  .  . ,   ....  in  Wiltshire,  17, 

42,  47,  52,  136. 

,  Thomas  de,  chaplain,  324. 

Evington,  Evyngton  [co.  Leicester], 
vicar  of.  See  Radecliff, 
Jolm  de. 

Ewell,  by  Dover,  Dovorre  [co.  Kent]; 
deeds  acknowledged  at,  580. 

,  Ewelle  [co.  Surrey],  75,  598. 

Ewell,  Thomas,  90,  324,  423. 

Ewelme,  co.  Oxford,  341,  343,  344, 
347    450    555. 

EwejTi,  Walter,'341,  343,344,347,556. 

Ewias  Lacy,  Ewyas  Lacy.  See  Long- 
town. 

exchange,  letters  of,  424. 

Excestre.     See  Exeter. 

Excestre,  Roger  de,  227. 

Cf.  Hexetere. 

exchequer,  the,  1,  3,   9,   29,  30,  39, 

43,  51,  54,  78,  88,  94,  138,  139, 
153,  154,  165,  177,  223,  235, 
240,  247,  256,  258,  265,  269, 
370,  381,  382,  384,  392,  398, 
403,  473,  495,  498,  499,  513, 
523,  524,  527,  590. 


682 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


exchequer,  the — cont. 

,  accounts  at,   3,    18,   33,   40, 

147,  150,  177,  207,  209,  211, 
231,  258,  399,  514,  522,  526, 
528 

, ,  roUs  of,  33,  04,  118. 

,  accounts    of    Irish    escheats 

not  rendered  at,  512,  513. 

.chamberlain   and   uslior   of, 

in  Buckinghamshire,  office  of, 
123. 

•  >....,  chamberlains  of.  See  Derby, 
Robert  do  ;  Mulsho,  William  ; 
Newenham,  Jolin  do. 

chancellor  of.     See  Askeby, 

William  de  ;    Snayth,  Heiu"y. 

,  demise  of,  98. 

,  estreats  of  chancery  sent  to, 

322. 

,  mandate  of,  369. 

,  memoranda  of,  43,  118,  383. 

process  at,  165. 

,  proffers  at,  78. 

,  receipt  of,  33,  64,  107,  226, 

422,  499. 

,  .  .  .  .,  chamberlains  of,  188. 

recognizance  in,  322. 

reliefs  at,   17,  48,  137,  368, 

510,  522,  524,  528. 

,  rolls   of,    43,    118,  383,  526. 

,  seal  of,  33,  118. 

,  sununons    of,    16,    29,    103, 

133,  153,  154,  179,  212,  231, 
260,  276,  369,  411,  473,  485, 
512. 

,  tallies  and  foils  in,  33. 

,  treastu'er  and  barons  of,  3, 

16,  25,  29,  33,  34,  36,  39,  40, 
43,  44,  64,  78,  103,  118,  122, 
133,  134,  138,  139,  142-145, 
147,  153-156,  164,  165,  167, 
168,  177,  178,  181,  209-212, 
215,  226,  228,  231,  239,  258, 
260,  266,  269,  276,  322,  369, 
381,  383,  392,  398,  411,  473, 
485,  499,  500,  512-514,  522, 
524,  526,  528. 

,  ....    and   chamberlains  of, 

28,  33,  43,  44,  207,  211,  215, 
348,  398,  522. 

,  usher  of,  office  of,  412,  499. 

,  writ  not  sent  to,  166. 

See    Carlisle,    Ireland. 

Exeter,  Excestre  [co.  Devon],   599. 

,  bishop    of.      See    Brenting- 

ham,  Thomas  de. 

,  citizen    of,    in    parliament, 

298. 

,  collectors  and  controller  of 

customs  in,  150,  409. 


Exeter — cont. 

,  diocese  of,  251. 

docvunent  dated  at,  339. 

,  mayor  and  bailiffs  of,    115, 

264,  347,  483. 

port  of,    192. 

, keepers  of  passage  in, 

449. 

,  St.  Stephen,  church  of,  385. 

,  . .  .  . , parson  of.     See 

Carbonell,  John. 
Exhall,  Ecleshale,  co.  Warwick,  430. 

,  Newland,  Newelond  in,  26. 

Exmoutli,     Exmuth     [co.     Devon], 

keepers  of  passage  in  jjort  of, 

449. 
Exton  [co.  Rutland],  John  vicar  of, 

575,  577. 

CO.  Somerset,  475. 

Exton,  Henry,  burgess  of  Midhurst, 

297. 
,  Katherine  wife  of  Nicholas 

de,  104. 
,  Nicholas,  Nicholas  de,   104, 

552. 

,  . . . . ,  citizen  of  London,  467. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Middlesex,  289. 
extortions  by  ntiasters  of  the   king's 

ships,  439. 
Eydon,  co.  Northampton,  parson  of. 

See  Hyworth,  Robert  de. 
Eye  [co.  Hereford],  John  vicar  of,  76. 
[in  Westminster],  co.  Middle- 
sex, 318. 
,  [co.    Suffolk],   lord   of.     See 

Ufford,  William  de. 
Eyer,  Eyr,  John,  350. 

Robert  le,  572. 

,  Stephen,   chaplain,    114. 

,  Wilham,  239. 

Eylesford,      Eillesford,      Eyllesford, 

Isabel  wife  of  John  de,   142, 

143. 
,  John  de,  knight,  75,  78,  142, 

143. 

,  .  .  . . ,  of  King's  Pyon,  1 89. 

, ,    knight,   189. 

,  son  of  John  de,  430. 

, , ,  Icnight,  73. 

Cf.  Eynesford. 

Eynesford,  co.  Kent,  588,   610. 
hundred,    co.    Norfolk,    con- 
stable of,  490. 
Eynesford,  John,  knight,  knight  of 

the   shire    of    Hereford,    100. 

611. 

Cf.  Eylesford. 

Eynesham.     See  Eynsham. 
Eynon,  Griffin  ap,  497. 


GENERAI,    INDEX. 


683 


Eynsham,   Eynosliani   [co.    Oxford], 

abbot  of,  232. 

disturbance  at,  232. 

Eyot,  Alan,  493. 

Eyr.     See  Eyor. 

eyi'es  of  justices,  offices  in,  499. 

Eysant  by  Brittany.     See  Usliant. 

Eyton  upon  Severn,  Abbots  Eyton 

[in  Wroxeter],  co.  Salop,  237. 
Eyver.    See  Ivor. 


Fairfax,  William,  91. 
Fairfot,  Robert,  82. 
fairs,  205,  348. 

,  proclamations  at,   193,   195, 

202. 
falconers,  43. 

Falemutli.    See  Falmouth. 
Falej-se.     See  Vallis. 
Falkeborne,       Falkeboume.         See 

Faulkboiuni. 
Fallegh,     parson    of.       See    Creue, 

Thomas. 
Falleslej^e,  John  de,  319. 

,  Margaret  wife   of   John   de, 

319. 
Fallow,  Fauelore,  Faulore  [in  Iving- 
ston  Lisle],  co.  Berks,  manor 
of,  557,  580. 
Falmouth,  Faleimitli,  co.  Cornwall, 
53,  264,  270. 

,  bailiffs  of,  115. 

keepers  of  passage  in  port  of, 

449. 
Falstone,  Faustane  in  Tyndale  [co. 
Northumberland],        disturb- 
ance at,  296. 

,  Kielder  in,   121. 

Falwesle.     See  Fawsley. 

Falyate,  John  de,  340. 

Fambridge,  [North],  co.  Essex,  ad- 

vowson  of,   128. 
Fandon,  Robert  de,  319,  320. 

,  Sibyl  wife  of  Robert  de,  319, 

320. 
Fanner,    Henry    son    of    Henrj-,    of 

London,   186,   187. 
Farceaux,    Farselles    [France,    dep. 

Eiu-e],  597. 
Fareman,  Roger,  610. 
Fai'ingdon,      co.      Berks,      Wadley, 
Wadelej-e  in,  168,  187. 

,  Wicklesome,  Wykyngesham 

in,  168. 


Fai'ingdon — cont. 

,  Worda  ?  Littleworth  in,  168. 

farm,  blancii,  48. 

Farnborougli,     Farnehergh,     Farne- 
l)er\vo,  CO.  Hants,  419. 

,  advowson  of,  341,  419. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  419. 

,  manor  of,  341,  419. 

Farndon,  Nicliolas,  105. 
Farnebergh,  Farneberwe.    See  Farn- 
borougli. 
FaiTiham,  co.  Essex,  advowson  of, 
577. 

,  Farnoham,       co.        Surrey, 

castle  of,  75,  76,  77. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  chancorv  at,   75,   76, 

77,  176,  193. 

,  .  .  . .,  church  of,  388. 

,  .  . . .,  deeds  dated  at,   176, 

193. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  Dipioenliall,  Depenhale 

in,  110. 

,  .  .  .  . ,    park    of,    road    from 

Diijpenhall  to,  175. 
Farningham,        Frenjoigham       [co. 

Kent],  583. 
Farrington,     Faryngton     [in     Pen- 
wortham,  co.  Lancaster],  456, 
Farselles.     See  Farceaux. 
Farjaigdon,  Thomas  de,  533. 
Faryiagton.    See  Farrington. 
Faryngton,  Robert  de,  416. 

, ,  clerk,   456,   457,   539. 

Fastolf,  Hugh,  340. 

,  .  .  .  . ,     sabadmtral     of     the 

fleet  to  the  north,  167. 

Faucomberge,     Fauconberge,     Fau- 

cumberge,  Roger,  539. 

,  Thomas,  knight,  563. 

,  Walter    son    of     John,     of 

Bilton,    430. 
Fauconer,  Faukonor,  Henry,  181. 

,  John,  352. 

,  . . .  . ,  of  r^icestershire,  542. 

son  of  Jolin,  of  Hurst- 
bourne,  551. 
Faucumborge.     See  Faucomberge. 
Fauelore.     See  Fallow. 
Fauelore,    Fauelour,    Alice    wife    of 
Gregory,  538. 

,  Gregory,  173,  174. 

,  Peter,    Peter   de,    173,    174, 

440,  538. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  chaplain,  580. 

,   ....  son  of  Peter,  173. 

Faukoner.     See  Fauconer. 
FaulkboiuTi,      Falkeborne,      Falke- 
boume, CO.  Essex,  95,  285. 
Faulore.     See  Fallow. 
Faustane.     See  Falstone. 


684 


GENERAIi    INDEX. 


Favorsliam,   Favere«hain,     Feveres- 

hani,  CO.  Kent,  20,  585,  588. 

abbot  of,  C6. 

and  convent  of,  235. 

bailiffs    of,    115,    201,    483. 

mayor  of,  201,  483. 

,  port  of,  389. 

Fawsloy,    Falwe.sle    [co.    Northamp- 
ton], manor  of,  138. 
Fayreman,  Walter,  vicar  of  Eaton, 

459. 
F6eamp,     Normandy     [dep.     Soine- 

Inferieuro]  abbot  of,  392. 
,  . .  . . ,  bailiffs  of,  at  Steyning, 

325. 
,  proctor  of,  in  England. 

See   Renulphi,    Philip. 
Feckenham,    co.    Worcester,    iortst 

of,    election    of    verdere-:   of, 

221. 
,  . . . . ,  keeper  of.    See  Wode, 

John. 
,  .  .  .  . ,       ranger      of.         See 

Gravenore,  Richard. 
,  manor  of,  farmer  of.     See 

Wode,  John. 

i  .  . ,  repairs  in,  65. 

prison  of,  233. 

Feering,  Feryngg,  co.  Essex,  94. 

,  fee  in   492. 

Felbrigge  John  de,  parson  of  ColtLs- 

haU,  459. 
Felchiirch,     Velchnrch     [in     Wash- 
brook],  CO.  Suffolk,  344. 
Felddallyng.     See  Field  Dalling. 
Felde,  Richard  atte,  341,  561,  589. 
,    burgess    of    Walling- 

ford  in  parliament,  290, 

,  Roger  atte,  451. 

Felkirk,  co.  York,  Brierley,  Brerelay 

in,  431. 
Felsted  [co.  Essex],  574. 

,  deed  dated  at,  575. 

,  Grand  Court,  Grantcortes  in, 

594. 
Feltham,  Joan  wife  of  Thomas  de, 

60. 

,  Thomas  de,  60. 

Felton,  John  de,  Icnight,  576. 
Feltwell,  Robert,  596. 

,  .  .  . . ,  of  Bedfordshire,  466. 

Fen,  Alban  du,  clerk,  292. 

,  William  atte,  205. 

fencible  men,  array  of,  18,  19. 
Fencotes,   John   de,   justice  in   cos. 
Norfolk,   Suffolk,  Cambridge, 

Huntingdon,      Bedford      and 

Buckingham,  466. 

,  .  .  .  . ,     ....      of    assize    in 

Norfolk,  175,  360. 


Fen  Dittou.    See  L>itton. 

Drayton.     See  Drayton. 

Fendytton.     See  Ditton. 
Fenhalle.     See  Finborough  Hall. 
Fennyneubolde.    See  Newbold  Revel. 
Fennystanton,    Fen    Stanton.      See 

Stanton. 
Fenton   [in   Kettlethorpe],   co.    Lin- 
coln, 388. 
[in    Stm-ton],    co.    Notting- 
ham, 309. 
Ferando,  Count  Don,  488. 

Cf.  Ferrandes. 

Ferariis.     See  Ferrariis. 

ferbote,  315. 

Ferdinand  I,  king  of  Portugal,  488. 

,  the    king's    brother, 

517. 
Ferers.     See  Ferrariis. 
Fergaunt,  Robert,  213. 
Feriby,  Feryby,  Hugh  de,  591,  592. 

,  John  de,  591. 

, ,  of  Barton,  592. 

WiUiam  de,  22,  541,  '545. 

, ,  clerk,  421. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Yorkshire,  421. 

Former,  John,  of  Marcham,  280. 
FernhUl,  Fornhulle  [in  Shaugh],  co. 

Devon,  fee  in,  393. 
Ferour,  Ferrour,  Geoffrey,  of  Wood 

Street,  484. 

Henry,  343. 

,  John,  burgess  of  Bedford  in 

parliament,  613. 

,  Ralph,  of  Nottingham,  174. 

,  Robert,     of     Peterborough, 

405. 
Ferrandes,  John,  knight,  496,  497. 

Cf.  Ferando. 

Ferrant,  Agnes,  561. 

Ferrariis,   Ferariis,   Ferers,   Ferrars, 

Ferrers,    Elizabeth,    wife    of 

Robert,  507. 
,  Henry  son  of  WilUam  de, 

486. 

,  Isabel  wife  of  Henry  do,  451. 

,  John,  Jolin  de,  350. 

,  knight,  68. 

,  . .  . . ,  of    Chtu-ston  Ferrers, 

knight  of  the  shire  of  Devon, 

612. 
,  Katherine  wife  of  Reynold 

de,  82. 
,  Margaret  wife  of  WUham  de, 

229,  232,  234,  485,  486. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  assignment  of  dower 

to,  348-357. 

,  Martin  de,  82,  560. 

,  . .  . . ,  collector  of  subsidy  in 

Devonsliire,  224. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


685 


Ferrariis — cont. 

,  Ralph    do,    admiral    of    tho 

fleet  from  the  mouth  of  tho 
Thames  northwards,  357. 

,  . .  .  . ,  keeper  of  tho  Isle  of 

Wight,  223. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight,  550. 

,  Robert  de,  158. 

,  of  Wem,  507. 

,  Thomas  do,  350. 

,  William  de,  guardian  of  the 

peace  and  justice  of  oyer  and 
terminer  in  Leicestershire,  78. 

,    ,  lord   of   Groby,   327, 

453. 

,'..'..,  of  Groby,  kniglxt,  229, 

2.32,  234,  273,  485,  486. 

Ferre,  Joan  wife  of  Guy,  52. 

Ferrers.     See  Ferrariis. 

Ferribv,  North,  [co.  York],  Redcliff, 
'Radclif  in,  242. 

ferries,  241,  242. 

Ferrour.    See  Feroiir. 

Feryby.     See  Feriby. 

Feryngg.    See  Feering. 

Fete,  Gregory  de,  409. 

Feveresham.     See  Faversham. 

Fe\'re,  Michael  le.  bvirgess  of  Ypres, 
152. 

Cf.  Smyth. 

Field  Balling,  Felddallyng  [co.  Nor- 
folk], 459. 

Fienes,  Fienles,  Fienlys,  Fyenles, 
Joan,  156. 

,  ....  wife  of    William,  145, 

146,  156. 

,  John  de,  1 56. 

,  Robert,    322. 

% ,  William,  146. 

,  ....    son    of    Jolin    son    of 

Joan,  156. 

Fifhide.  See  Fifield,  Fivehead,  Fy- 
field. 

Fifliide,  Fifhyde,  Fiphide,  Fyfhide, 
Jolin,  418. 
.  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  210. 
.  .  .  . ,  mercer  of  London,  600. 
Richard  son  of  William,  174, 
Simon,  Simon  de,  194,  605. 
William  brother  of  Richard, 
174. 

Fifield  Bavant,  Fifhide,  Fyfide,  co. 
Wilts,  manor  of,  344,  421,  518. 

FiJilode,  Nicholas,  burgess  of  Bridg- 
north in  parliament,  290. 

Filliol,  John,  426. 

Filz.     See  Fitz. 

Finborough  Hall,  Fenhalle  in  One- 
hows  [in  Onehoiise],  co.  Suf- 
folk, manor  of,  46. 


Finchampstead,  Fynchampstode  [co. 

Berks],    Hamon    parson    of, 

268,  .508. 
Finchingfield,  FinchjTiggefeld,  Fyn- 

chj7igfeld,  CO.  Essex,   609. 

,  fee  in,  492. 

Findon,  Fjnidon,  co.  Sussex,  Munt- 

ham,  Mondliam  in,   419. 
Fint,  Elizabeth,  wife  of  Richard,  473. 

Cf.  Fj-nk. 

Fiphide.     See  Fifhide. 

Firbeck.  Frythebek,  co.  York,  377. 

Stone  in,  377. 

fii-st  fniits,  479. 

Fish,  Fysshe,  Robert,  323. 

,  .  . . . ,  draper,  584. 

William,  205. 

fish:— 

great  fish.  380. 

herring,  42,  257,  380,  518. 

,  lasts  of,  27. 

,  red,  528. 

lampreys,  43. 
salmon,  257,  380. 
small  fish,  380. 
theft  of,  405. 
fishermen,  destruction  of,  59. 
fisheries,   311,  342,    560.       See   also 

Chingford,  Edmonton, 
fishiionds,  205,  351. 
Fisshacre,    Thomas,    lieutenant     of 

the   admiral   of   the   western 

fleet,  371. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Plymouth,  51. 

Fisshere,  Peter,  533. 
Fistral   (Bay)  ?  Patristell,  co.  Corn- 
wall, 509. 
fitchews,  325,  328. 
FitljTig,  Thomas  de,  knight  of  the 

shire  of  Hertford,   289,   299, 

316,  476. 
Fiton,  Fyton,  Richard,  knight  of  the 

shire  of  Worcester,  289,  298, 

316,  476. 
Fittones  in  Ilketshall  [co.  Suffolk], 

569. 
Fitz  Alan,  Eleanor  wife  of  Richard, 

earl  of  Arundel,  241.  242. 
,  Richard,  earl  of  Arimdel  and 

Siu-rev,  61,  84.  109,  149,  150, 

158,  188,  204,  207,  224,  241, 

251,  287,  309,  332,  339,  392, 

406,  441,  442,  462,  463,  572, 

576,  581,  587,  589. 
,  ....  son  of  Richard,  earl  of 

Artmdel,  339,  441. 
Fitz  Eustace,   Filz   Eustace,    Cliris- 

tiana  wife  of  John,  54,  63. 
Fitz    Geffrey,    Robert,    coroner    of 

Hertfordsliire,  494. 


686 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Fitz  Hugh,  Fitzlmgh,  son  of  HugJi, 

Nicholas,  74,  448. 
Fitz  James,  Filz  James,  James,  of 

Somerset,  312. 
Fitz  Joliaa,  Filz  Johan,  Fiz  Johan, 

Adam,  197,  198,  199. 

,  Edmmid,  332,  453,  454. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  esquire,  454. 

Fitz  Payn,  Fitzpaj^n,  Jolm,  339,  523. 

Fitz  Peres,  Baldwin,  of  Glenfield,  186. 

Fitz  Piers,  Alan,  352. 

Fitz  Rauf,  John,  492. 

Fitz    Jiichard,    Filz    Richard,    Fitz- 

rychard,  John,  of  Olney,  441, 

564,  566. 

,  Nicholas,  99. 

Ralph,  466. 

,  Thomas,  99,  563. 

WilHam,  66. 

Cf.  Richard,  Richardessone. 

Fitz  Simon,  Ednumd,  602. 

Fitz     Simond,     Symond,     Edward, 

knight  of  the  shire  of  Hert- 
ford, 289,  612. 

John,  586. 

Fitz  Stephen,  Filz  Estephene,  John, 

560. 
Fitz  Symond.    See  Fitz  Simond. 
Fitz  Walter,  Fitz  Wauter,  Thomas, 

knight,  547. 
,  Walter,  lord  of    Woodham 

Walter,  572. 

Of.  Walter. 

Fitz  Waryn,  Ivo  son  of  William,  of 

Whittington,   135. 

,  Philip,  Icnight,   601. 

Fitz  Wauter.     See  Fitz  Walter. 
Fitz   William,    Filz   William,    John, 

396,  469. 

, ,  knight,  73.  308. 

Cf.  William. 

Fivehead,    Fifhide    Langeford,    co. 

Somerset,  manor  of,  435. 

,  Cathanger,  Catangre  in,  474. 

Fiz.     See  Fitz. 

Fladbury,     co.     Worcester,     Piddle, 

Pidele,   Pydele  in,    108,   453, 

454. 
Flamstead,  Flamstede,  co.  Hertford, 

502. 

,  manor  of,   128. 

,  parson    of.       See    Burstall, 

William. 
Flanders,  30,  45,  130,  153,  169,  244, 

390,  404,  467,  488. 

,  count  of.     See  Lewis  II. 

,  good  towns  of,  113. 

,  men  of,  244,  245,  345,  362, 

428. 
,  . . . . ,  arrest  of,  329. 


Flanders,  men  of — cont. 

at  Norwich,  326. 

,  .....   of   London,   260. 

,  merchandise  of,   416. 

,  merchants  of,   10,   121,   152, 

307,  308,  428,  447,  467. 

,  peers  of,  300. 

,  prohibition  of  insults  to  men 

of,  91. 

,  receiver  of.    See  Clyte,  Cobot 

de  le. 

,  relations  of,  with  Spain,  113. 

,  seamen  of,  509. 

,  ships  of,  20,  27. 

,  tho  king's  enemies  of,  366, 

,  treaty  with,    300-302,    385, 

427,  428,  447. 
Flaunville,   Flaumville,  Flaunn\alle, 
William,   knight  of  the  sliire 
of  Leicester,  288,  298,  316. 
flax,  325,  328. 
Fleccher,  John,  351. 

,  William,  of  Craike,  159,  255. 

Flecknoe,   Fleckenho,   Flekenho   [in 
Wolfhampcote],  co.  Warwick, 
manor  of,  327,  374,  486. 
Fleet,  Flete  [in  Ash],  co.  Kent,  271. 

,  CO.  Lincoln,  manor  of,  572. 

Fleetham,  Fletham  [in  Kirkby  Fleet- 
ham],  CO.  York,  528. 
Flegg,    West    [hundred]    Fleg    [co, 

Norfolk],  550. 
Flekenho.     See  Flecknoe. 
Flemmjmg,  Flemyng,  John  le,   174, 
356. 

,  Simon,  87. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  baron  of  Slane,   395, 

396. 

,  Thomas,  395. 

,  William,      parson      of      St. 

Athan,  273,  360. 
Flete.     See  Fleet. 
Flets,  John,  72. 
Fletham.     See  Fleetham. 
Fletwell,   Robert,   of  Hertfordshire, 

87. 
Flicham,  Simon  de,  422. 
Flitwick,  Flitwyk,  co.  Bedford,  566. 
Florence,  303,  449. 

florins  of,  347. 

,  merchants  of,  38,  216,  450. 

Florence,  Paul  de,  biu'gess  of  Calais, 

306. 
Flory,  Edmund,  95. 
Florymond,     Florymovmd     lord     of 

Lesparre,  191,  192. 
floiu-,  27. 

Floure,  John,  of  Charlbury,  80. 
Fobbing,  Fobbyng,  co.  Essex,  manor 
of,  496. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


687 


Fockerbj'^,  Folquardoby  [in  Adling- 

fleot,  CO.  York],  5G(5. 
Fodilmouth.     See  Foldmoiitli 
Foillo.     See  Froillo. 
Foldmouth,  Fodilinoutl^  Jolm,  biu"- 

gess  of  Aberdeen,  27. 
,  . . . . ,  merchant  of  Alx>rdeon, 

64. 
Folojanibo,    Folejaunibe.      See.   Fol- 

jambe. 
Folotby.    See  Fiilletby. 
Folifayt,   John,   202. 
Foliot,     Richard,     of     Handsworth, 

461. 

,  ....  son  of  Ricliard,  461. 

,  Tlionias,  569. 

,  WiHiam,  569. 

Foljambe,    Folejambo,    Folejaumbo, 

Foljamp,    Foljaumbe,    Anina 

(Alvova  ?)  wife  of  Godfrey,  93. 

Godfrey,  233,  307. 

,  ....,    justice    of    oyer    and 

terminer  in  Lancashire,  268, 

269,  315. 
, ,  knight,  93,   140,  346, 

433,  563,  564. 
,  .  .  . . ,  kniglit  of  the  shire  of 

Derby,  100,  289,  298,  316. 
,  .  .  . . ,  the  son,  the  younger, 

432,  437,  438,  567. 
Folko,  John,  349. 

,  Roger,  344. 

Cf.  Fulk. 

Folkestone,  co.  Kent,  manor  of,  385. 
FolkjTigham,  John  de,  clerk,  604. 

,  William  de,  534. 

FoIIeslowe,  co.  Surrey,  park  of,  185, 

191. 
Follifoot,  Folyfayt  [in  Spofforth],  co. 

York,  7. 
Folquardeby.     See  Fockerbj'. 
Folsham.    See  Foxilsham. 
Folj-fa.Ni;.     See  Follifoot. 
Foots  Cr&y.     See  Cray. 
Ford,   the   Fordo,   co.   Northumber- 
land, 448, 

,  .  .  . . ,  John  chaplain  of,  87. 

,  ....,    Crookham,    Croucum 

in,  448. 

, ,  Etal,   Ethale  in,  400. 

,   .  .  .  . ,      Kimmerston,     Kjti- 

merston  in,  448. 

,  Old.     <See  Old  Ford. 

Forde,  A..dam  atte,  421. 

,  Henry,  Henry  de,   95,  288, 

433. 

,  John  atte,  of  Ivor,  428,  429. 

,  Stephen  atte,  called  Soudan, 

butcher,  of  London,  285,  286, 

291. 


Fordo — cont. 

,  Valentino      atte,     chaplain, 

331,  336. 

,    clerk,  550. 

,  William,  clerk,   109. 

See  Atteford. 

Fordingbridgc,  co.  Hants,  Burgate, 
Overgato  in,  15. 

,  Micighani,  Migham  in,   285. 

Forest,  the,  assizes  of,  28,  159,  167, 
255,  371,  386,  444. 

,  justices  for  pletis  of,   6,  28, 

134,  159,  166,  167,  255,  371, 
386,  444. 

,  .  .  .  .,  north  of  Trent.     See 

Latimer,  William. 

,  .  .  . . ,  south  of  Trent.     See 

Foxley,  John  de. 

,  keeper  of,  north  of  Trent. 

See  Latimer,  William. 

,  ....,  south  of  Trent.     See 

Foxley,  John  de ;  Wykeham, 
William  do. 

/See  aZso  Alice  Holt, Buckliolt, 

Cannock,  Dean,  Essex,  Feck- 
enham,  Galtres,  Inglewood, 
Knaresborough,  Mitcheldean, 
Morf,  Neroch,  New  Forest, 
Pamber,  Pickering,  Quern- 
more,  Rockingham,  Rutland, 
Savernake,  Selwood,  Sher- 
w^ood,  Waltham,  Waybridge, 
W^indsor,  Woolmer,  Wych- 
wood. 

forestallers,  167,  193,  194,  195. 

Forester,  Forstor,  Hugh  brother  of 
Richard,  336. 

,  Richard,  Richard  le,  331. 

, ,  of  Beckley,  523. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of    Stanton  Harcourt, 

336. 

,  Robert,  of  Eastoft,  566. 

,  Thomas  son  of  Thomas,  of 

Aldenham,  552. 

,  Walter,  323,  536. 

,  WiHiam,  clerk,  109. 

forgery,  233,  486. 

of  bulls  and  letters,  1 3. 

of  privy  seal,  501. 

of  seals,  421,  422. 

for  sealing  cloth,  133. 

Forncett,  Fornesete  [co.  Norfolk], 
378,  488. 

,  manor  of,  375. 

FomhuUe.    See  Fernhill. 

Forster.     See  Forester. 

Fort,  Agnes  wife  of  Nicholas,  331. 

"Nicholas,  331. 

,  William,  83. 

fortification  of  castles  in  Wales,  61,  62. 


688 


GENERAL 


Fosse,  Foss  by  Torkeseye  [in  Tork- 

sey,  CO.  Lincoln],  prioress  of, 
207. 
Fosse  Way,  the  fosse  [co.  Warwick], 

472. 
Foston  [CO.  Norfolk],  333,  334. 
Fotescreyo.     See  Cray. 
Foucher,  Edmund,  473. 
,  John,   escheator   in   Derby- 
shire, 488,  506,  509,  524,  531. 
, in  Nottingham- 
shire, 390,  487,  506,  509,  531. 
, knight  of  the  shire  of 

Derby,  289. 
Foiilere,  Peter,  350. 

,  Richard,  chaplain,  456. 

Foiiloshui  St,  Robert  de,  knight,  603. 
Foidsham,    Folsliam    [co.    Norfolk], 

598. 
,  Swanton's,  Swantones  manor 

in,  598. 
Fountains  abbey    [co.  York],  abbot 

of,  79. 
Foumes.    See  Fiu-ness. 
Fournes,  John,  554. 
Fourneux,  Thomas,  323. 
Fourneys.     See  Fui'ness. 
Foury,  Stephen  do   la,  ship-master, 

368. 
Fouxton.     See  Foxton. 
Fowey,  Fowy  [co.  Cornwall],  52. 
,  bailiffs    of,    115,    201,    264, 

447. 
,  keepers  of  passage  in  port  of, 

449. 
fox,  gloves  furred  with,  355. 
Foxcote,  John  de,  of  Gloucestershire, 

109. 
Foxden,  John  de,  parson  of  Copford, 

429. 
Foxele,  Foxelee.     See  Foxley. 
foxes,  45. 
Foxley,     Foxele,     Foxelee,     Foxle, 

Foxlee,  Jolm,  John  de,  345, 

698. 
,  ....,   justice   of   the   forest 

south  of  Trent,  485. 
,  . .  .  . ,   keeper   of   the  forest 

south  of  Trent,  150,  155,  164, 

255. 

, ,  knight,  82,  512,  551. 

,  .  .  . . ,  knight  of  the  sliire  of 

Berks,  101,  288,  298,  316,  611. 

, ,  of  Norwich,  282,  495. 

,  Thomas  de,  569. 

,  William  de,  monk  of  Chert- 

sey,  497. 
Foxton    [co.    Cambridge],    bailiff   of 

market  of.    See  Lawe,  Nicho- 
las. 


INDEX. 

Foxton,  Fouxton,  John,  26. 

,  Richard  de,  568. 

,  escheator  in  Warwick- 
shire, 486,  525. 
,     . . »  . ,      of      Leicestershire, 

570. 
,  Roger   de,   parson   of   Hus- 
bands Bosworth,  382. 
Foyl,  John,  citizen  of  Dublin,  246, 

266. 
foynes,  325,  328. 

Framelyngham.     See  Framlingham. 
Framingham    Pigot,    Frainlyngham 

Parva,  co.  Norfolk,  manor  of, 

375. 
Framlingham,    Framelyngham    [co. 

Suffolk],  lord  of.    See  Ufford, 

William  de. 
Framlyngham.    See  Framingham. 
Frampton,    Fraimton,   co.    Lincoln, 

manor  of,  234. 
Frampton,     Frempton,     Frompton, 

John,  Jolm  de,  104,  473,  544. 
,  Margaret  wife  of  Walter  de, 

181,  543. 
,  Walter,  Walter  de,  151,  152, 

181,  543. 
,  .  .  . . ,   merchant   of   Bristol, 

30. 
Franc,  le.    See  Vrij,  Het. 
France,  597. 

,  aliens  of,  43. 

,  fleet  of  ships  of,  36,  39,  58, 

151-153,   158,  203,  276,  385, 

436. 

. .  .  .,  at  sea,  61. 

,  insults  to  hostages  of,  pro- 
hibition of,  91. 
,  invasion      of      the      king's 

dominions  in,  36,  93. 
men-at-arms  for  service  in, 

185. 
,  king    of.      See    Charles    V, 

John. 
,  use    of    style    of,    on 

English  seals,  94. 
,  peace  with,  infringement  of, 

93,  94. 
,  recovery  of  English  rights  in, 

563. 
,  the   king's  enemies   of,    32, 

36,  38,  52,  58,  59,  61,  63,  65, 

110,   151-153,   158,   177,  203, 

220,  225,  276,  277,  301,  308, 

385,  436. 
,  war  with,  141,  165,  248,  256, 

269,  297. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  issue  of,  460. 

Francisco,    Anthony,    de    Maiorke, 

seaman  of  Genoa,  509. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


689 


Frankoleyn,  Fraunk<^layn,  Fraunke- 
leyn,  Jolin,  323,  472. 

,  Simon,  of  London,  288. 

,  Stophon.  349. 

Cf.   Frankissh,  Fraunceys, 

Froinan,  PVcjnssli. 
Frankissh,  Frankys.  Jolin,  79. 

,  . .  .  . ,  servant  of  Ellis,  parson 

of  Buckonliarn,  329. 

Cf.  Frankeloyn ,  Fraunceys, 

Frenssh. 
Fraunceys,    Fraunceis,    Adam,     16, 
191,  536. 

,  .  .  . . ,  alderman  of  London, 

143,  210. 

,  .  .  . . ,  citizen  of  London,  74, 

97, 173, 238, 292,  309.  321,  554. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  mayor  of  the  staple  of 

Westminster,  544. 
,  tlie  younger,  of  Lon- 
don, 292,  309. 

,  Ellis,  citizen  of  London,  295. 

,  Henry,  565. 

John,  565. 

,  . . . . ,  coroner  of  co.  Derby, 

367. 

,  .  .  . . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Derby,  476. 

,  Maud,   daughter   of  Adam, 

292,  309. 

,  ....  wife  of  Simon,  68,  536. 

,  Robert,  parson  of  St.  Ewin, 

London,  595. 

,  Simon,  of  London,   68.   69. 

,  William,  of  London,  545. 

Cf.  Frankelej-n,  Frankissh, 

Freman,  Frenssh. 
Fraunkf'layn,      Fraunkeleyn.        See 

FrankelejTi. 
Fraimton.     See  Frampton. 
Frebam,  Jolin,   of   Wilbraham,  the 

elder,  536. 
Freclievyle,  Ankor,  567. 
Freeland.     See  Tilgarsley  ? 
freight,  book  of,  234. 
Freman,  Jolm,  66. 

Robert,  66. 

,  .....  of  Briningham,  67. 

Fremon,  William,  608. 
Frempton.     See  Frampton. 
Frende,  Jolm,  469. 
Frendesbury.     See  Frindsbury. 
Frendesbury,  Nicholas  de.  71.  85. 
Frensham.  oo.  Surrey.  Pitfold,  Put- 
fold  in,  344.  421. 
Frenssh,  Frenslie,  Robert,  547. 

biu-gess  of  Horsham, 

in  parliament.  297. 

Cf.  Frankeleyn,  Frankissh, 

Fraimceys, 


FrenjTigham.      See    Famingham. 
Frore,  Edmund,  of  Lancaster,  coro- 
ner of  CO.  Lancaster,  378. 

,  Jolm,  of  Doncaster,  98. 

Richard,  235. 

Robert    son    of    Jolm,     of 

Carlisle,  134. 

Thomas,  27,  28. 

Frereman,  Richard,  bm"goss  of  Bed- 
ford in  parliament,  290,  298. 
fresh  force,  assize  of,  254. 
Freshwater,    Fresshewater    [Isle    of 

Wight!,  Afton,  Affeton  in,  280, 

284,  285. 

,  rector  of.     See  Kyng,  John. 

Fretewell.     See  Frettewclle. 
Freton,  John  de,  clerk,  440,  635. 

, ,  of  Norfolk,  423. 

,  Roger  de,  423. 

Frettewelle,  Fretewell,  Ralph,  verd- 

erer  of  Wychwood  forest,  135. 
,  Thomas      de,      coroner     of 

Oxfordshire,  162. 
Frevilo,  Frevyle,  Frevj'lle,  Fryville, 

Agnes  wife  of  Richard  son  of 

Jolm,  411. 
,    Baldwin    de,    kniglit,    193, 

430,  468,  603. 

,  .  .  .  .,  tlie  elder,  knight,  334. 

,  Ellenwifeof  John,  411,  412. 

,  John,  411. 

, ,  knight,  412. 

,  Richard  son  of  John,  411. 

friars,     Austin,      hermits     of      St. 

AugVLstine,     of     Huntingdon, 

461,  462. 
,  .  .  .  . ,    prior     provincial    of. 

See  Grove,  Thomas. 
,  Carmelite,    of   the   order   of 

Moimt  Carmel,  584. 
,  Crutched,  of  the  order  of  the 

Holy  Cross,  242-244. 

Minors,  422. 

,   minister  of,    in    Eng- 
land, 517. 

,  of  Exeter,  517. 

,   of    London,    31,    172, 

178,  292,  345. 

,  of  York.  438. 

Preachers,    500,    501. 

of  Dartford,  96. 

,   of    London,   187,  287, 

345,  578. 

,  of  Oxford.  517. 

of  Stamford.  514. 

Trinitarian,     of    the     order 

of       the       Trinity,       Robert 

minister  of,  330. 
Frilsliam.  Fridelesham,  Frydelesham 

[co.  Berks],  advowson  of,  419. 

CR  44 


690 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Frilsham — cont. 

deed  dated  at,  419. 

,  manor  of,  419. 

Fi'indsbury,  Frondesbuiy  [co.  Kent], 
97. 

,  Sutlxland  in,  71. 

Fristlyng,  Bartliolomew,  citizen  of 
London  in  parliament,   299. 

Fritheby,  Edmimd  do,  139. 

,  knight,  533. 

,  Margaret   wife   of    Ednixmd 

do,  139,  533. 

Frogenale,  Jolm,  585,  586. 

Froillo.    See  Froyle. 

Froille,  Foille,  IVoylle,  John,  John 
de,  440. 

,  escheator  in  Berkshire, 

122,  136,  148,  161,  245,  247, 
282,  418,  496,  498,  506,  526. 

,  .  .  .  . ,    ....    in   Hants,    128, 

129,  165,  214,  237,  250,  268, 
309,  366,  418,  498,  508,  511, 
512,  513,  517,  530. 

,    ....   in    Oxfordshire, 

119,  129,  145,  156.  232,  238, 
418,  498,  506,  512,  526. 

,....,     ....     in      Wiltshire, 

125,  128,  136,  148,  151,  155, 
161,  163,  166,  196,  214,  282, 
418,  496,  506,  511. 

Frombold,  John,  mayor  of  Drogheda, 
265. 

Frome,  Frome  Braunche,  Frome  in 
Selewode,  co.  Somerset,  hun- 
dred of,  95,  119. 

.......  . . . . ,  lord  of.     See  Wynd- 

slade,  Stephen. 

,  .  . .  .,  manor  of,  119,  172. 

,  Vallis,  Faleyse  in,  95. 

Billet,  Fromebelet,  co.  Dor- 
set, 264. 

Frome,  William,  264. 

Fromebelet.     See  Frome. 

Frompton.     See  Frampton. 

Frost,  John,  of  Barton,  592. 

,  . .  .  .,  of  Woolwich,  467. 

,  Margaret   wife   of   William, 

542. 

,  Walter,  burgess  of  Kingston- 

upon-Hull  in  parliament,  290, 
299. 

,  William,of  Beverley,536,542. 

Frowyk,  Henry,  540. 

, ,  of  London,  309,  323. 

Thomas,  105,  309,  323,  546. 

,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Middlesex,   101. 

,  Walter,  98. 

Froyle,  Froille,  co.  Hants,  366, 

^ ,  mill  in,  366. 


Froylle.     See  Froille. 
Frydolosliam.     See  Frilsham. 
Fryskenay,    Tliomas   de,    parson   of 

WiUoughby,  380. 
Frystone.     See  Monk  Frystone. 
Frjiihebek.    See  Firbeck. 
Fryville.    See  Frevile. 
FiJ borne.     See  Fulbume. 
Fulbourn,  Fulbume,  co.  Cambridge, 

102,  457. 
,  advowson    of     St.     Vigor's 

chiu-ch  in,  102. 

,  manor  of,  457. 

,  Manors    fee,    Manerisfe    in, 

457. 
Fulburne,  Fulborne,  Robert,  591. 

,  William  de,  chaplain,  309. 

, ,  clerk,  101,  102. 

Fulham  [co.  Middlesex],  535. 
,  parson  of.     See  Shirborne, 

William. 
Fulham,  John,  skinner,  of  London, 

325,  328,  564. 
Fulk,  Alexander,  clerk,  345. 

Cf.  Folke. 

Fvillere,  Alice  wife  of  Martin,  349. 
Fvilletby,     Foletby,      co.      Lincoln, 

manor  of,  379. 
Fulmere,  William,  vicar  of  Eccles- 

field,  442,  443,  457,  594. 
Fulnetby,  Elizabeth  wife  of  Thomas 

de,  490,  491. 
,  John,    John    de,    337,    473, 

490. 
,  . . . . ,  cousin  of  Thomas  de, 

490. 

,  Thomas  de,  248,  490,  491. 

,  knight,  195,  337. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Lincoln,  101. 
Fulquardeby,  Margery  de,  110. 
Fulsham,    Benedict    de,    citizen    of 

London,  532. 

,  Richard  de,  465. 

Fvdthorp,  Roger  de,  17,  94,  95,  114, 

233,  307,  566,  576. 
,  .  .  .  . ,    jiLstice    of    assize    in 

Yorkshire,   571. 
Furness,     Fournes,     Fomiieys     [co. 

Lancaster],  abbot  of,   4. 
,  coroner  in  lands  and  fees  of, 

4. 

,  passage  over  sands  near,  4. 

furring,  deamess  of,  136. 

Fyenles.    See  Fienes. 

Fyfhide.     See  Fifhide. 

Fyfide.     See  Fifield. 

Fyfield,  Fifhide  [co.  Essex],  parson 

of.    See  Alyngton,  William  de. 
Fyftimyle,  Thomas,  14. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


691 


Fjrge,  Peter,  of  London,  186. 
Fylysmede,  co.  Kent,  304. 
Fymmer,  Fyinmar,  Fyinmero,  Joan 
wife  of  Thomas  de,  of  Tlior- 
alby,  239. 

,  Simon,  parson  of  East  Dere- 

liam,  88. 

Thomas  de,  98. 

FjTich,  Robert,  of  Ayot  St.  Lawrence, 
596. 

Cf.  Fynk. 

Fynchampstcdo.       See     Finchamp- 

stead. 
Fyncheden,  WilHam  de,  17,  59,  114, 
233,  307,  519,  587,  588. 

,  .  .  . . ,  guardian  of  tlie  peace 

and  justice  of  oj'er  and 
terminer  in  Northumberland, 
114. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

in  the  West  Riding  of  York- 
shire, 308. 

,     justice,     tlie     king's 

justice,  77,  81. 

,....,     ....     of     assize    in 

Yorkshire,   571. 

,  knight,  93,  140,  431. 

Fynchyngfeld.     See  Finchingfield. 
FynchjTigfeld,  John,  citizen  of  Roch- 
ester in  parliament,  290,  297. 

,  ....  de,  parson  of  Braintree, 

539. 
FjTidon.     See  Findon. 
Fynk,  John,  572. 

,     Cf.  Fint,  Fynch. 

Fysshe.    See  Fish. 

Fytelton,  Jolm,  of  Somerset,  445. 

Fyton.     See  Fiton. 


Gad,  John,  598. 

Gaddesden,  Gatesden,  co.  Hertford, 

82. 

,  Great,  co.  Hertford,  74. 

,  . .  .  . ,  deed  dated  at,  74. 

,  .  . .  . ,  Okmille  in,  74. 

,  .....  Southall,  Southalle  in, 

74. 
Gaddon  [co.  Devon],  603. 
Gadesby,  John  do,  552. 
Gauiford,    Gajoiford    [co.   Durham], 

manor  of,  127. 
Barnard    Castle,    Bemeurdes 

Castle  in,  127. 


Gainsborough,  Geynesburgh,  co.  Lin- 
coln, manor  of,  121. 

Gairgrave,  W'ilham  do,  coroner  of  co. 
York,  46. 

Galby,  W'ilHam  do,  parson  of  Ep- 
worth,  554. 

Galdecoto,  Thomas  do,  552. 

Galeys,  WiUiam,  servant  of  queen 
Isabel,  478. 

Gallan,  Geoffi'ey,  citizen  of  Dublin, 
246,  266. 

Gallow  and  Brothercross,  Galowe- 
brothyrcros  himdred,  co.  Nor- 
folk, constable  of,  490. 

GaJoun,  Hugh,  256. 

Thomas,  256. 

Galowebrothyrcross.  See  Gallow 
and  Brothercross. 

Galoweye,  William,  of  Peakirk, 
405. 

Galtres,  Galtrees,  Galtris,  Galtrys 
forest,  CO.  York,  159,  536. 

,  election  of  verderers  in,   9, 

237,  362. 

keeper  of,  166,  255,  386. 

,  regard  of,  439. 

Gelj^ard,  John,  510. 

Gamage,  Elizabetli  daughter  of 
Nicholas,  89. 

Gamblesby,  Gamelsby  [in  Aikton], 
CO.    Ciunberland,    124. 

,  mill  at,  124. 

Gamboun,  Gambon,  Isabel  wife  of 
Jolm,   knight,   551. 

,  William,  76,  156,   157,  181, 

200,  285,  336,  339,  574. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  king's  sergeant,  85. 

,  yeoman  of  the  king's 

chamber,    103,    340. 

Gamelsby.     See  Gamblesby. 

Gamelyngeye,  Gamennigeye,  Wil- 
liam de,  chaplain,  perpetual 
vicar  of  Swavesey,  71,  457. 

Gand.     See  Ghent. 

Gandeby,  Hugh  de,  clerk,  596. 

, ,  of  Nottingham- 
shire, 578. 

Gardyner,  John,  the  king's  janitor, 
594. 

Garlek,  Henry,  of  Barrington,  255. 

Garnereye.     See  Guernsey. 

Garnier,  Arnald,  receiver  of  the 
pope's  dues  in  England.  424. 

Garnoim,  Henry,  biu'gess  of  Drog- 
heda,  246. 

Cf.  Gernoun. 

Garristown,  Baliogary  [co.  Dublin], 
Ireland,  manor  of,  164. 

Garstone.  Jolm  atte,  561. 

Thomas  atte,  589. 


692 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Garthorpe,  Garthorp,  co.  Lincoln, 
chapel  of,  160. 

Gr«i'lothorp  [in  Luddington, 

CO.  Lincoln],  5G6. 

Gartree,  Gortre  iumdi-ed,  co.  Leices- 
ter, bailiwick  of,  135,  145. 

Garveys.     See  Gerveys. 

Garwyntone,  Thomas,  Thomas  de, 
586. 

Garyn,  John,  400. 
Cf.  Gerjm. 

Garyny,  Jolm,  monk  of  Mont  St. 
Micliol,  prior  of  Vale  priory, 
141. 

Gascoigne,  William,  of  Harewood, 
114. 

Gascony,  51,  513,  328,  369. 

,  wine  of,  513,  516. 

Gaskorik,  Wilham  do,  473. 

Gataore,  Gateacre  [in  Claverley],  co. 
Salop,  14. 

Gatcombe,  Gatescombe,  co.  Hants, 
48. 

Gate,  Richard  atte,  104. 

the  king's  moneyer, 

306. 

Thomas  atte,  349. 

Gateacre.     See  Gatacre. 

Gateacre,  Alice  Avife  of  Thomas  de, 
14,  15. 

,  Geoffrey  de,  14,  15. 

,  Thomas  son  of  G^ofii'ey  de, 

14,  15. 

Gaterville.    See  Gatteville. 

Gates,  Richard  del,  chaplain,  97, 
98. 

Gatescombe.     See  Gatcombe. 

Gatesden.     See  Gaddesden. 

Gatesden,  John  de,  knight,  82. 

Gatteville,  Gaterville  [France,  dep. 
Manche],  ship  of,  261. 

Gatyn,  John,  426. 

GavUe,  John,  400. 

Gaxmt,  Beatrice  daughter  of  Wil- 
liam, of  Binbrook,  412,  499. 

,  Christiana  daughter  of  Wil- 
liam, of  Binbrook,  412,  499. 

Gavelacre,  Reynold  de,  445. 

Gayhurst,  Gothiu'st,  co.  Bucking- 
ham, 75. 

,  advowson  of,   77. 

,  deed  dated  at,  77. 

,  manor  of,  77. 

Gayner,  Cayner,  Robert,  parson  of 
Orchardleigh,    273,    360. 

Gaynesburgh,  John  de,  of  Yorkshire, 
175. 

Gaynford.    See  Gainford. 

Gaysford,  John  de,  knight  of  the 
shire  of  Nottingham,  612. 


Gayton,  John  de,  keeper  of  Kempton 

park,  494. 

Robert,  105. 

Geddyng,  Robert,  knight,  575. 
Geegg',  Thomas,  430. 
Gees,  William,  144. 

Cf.Gyn. 

Gefle,    John,    of    Haxey,    otherwise 

Belle,  165. 
Geffrey.     See  Fitz  Geffrey, 
Geffron,  Jolm,  532. 
Grelham   in   Wycham   [in   Wickham 

Market],   co.    Suffolk,   manor 

of,  560. 

See  Yeldham. 

Geney.     See  Gyneye. 

Genoa,  Janua,  agreement  with,  217, 

231. 
,  doge,  commonalty  and  dia- 

trettuali  of,  216,  277. 
,  . .  . . ,  sjTidic  of.     See  Usas 

Maris,  Pascalotus. 

,  men  of,  214,  245. 

I      ,  merchants  of,  230,  233,  234. 

peace  with,  277. 

,  seamen  of,  509. 

,  ships  of,  209,  213,  230,  233, 

508. 
Gentil,    Simon,    citizen   of   London, 

532. 
Greoffrey,  John  son  of,  de  Wandes- 

ford,   84. 

Gf.  Fitz  Geffrey. 

George,  Bernard,  409. 

Georgeham,  Hamme,  Nitherham  and 

Overhamme,  co.  Devon,  fees 
I  in,  339,  522,  523. 

,  North  Hole  in,  339. 

,  South  Hole  in,  339,  522. 

Gerard,  Gererd,  Henry,  of  London, 

611. 

I      ,  John,  349,  561. 

,  .  .  .  . ,    prior    of    St.    Mary, 

Elsing  Spittle,  London,   295. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  prior  of  Ware,  165. 

,  Maud,  349. 

,  Roger,   532. 

,  Tankard  Clays  filz,  biu-gess 

of  Bruges,  226. 
Gerardeston.     See  Gurston. 
Gererd.    See  Gerard. 
Gerleston,  John,  86. 
Gterlethorp.     See  Garthorpe. 
Gerlethorp,  Robert  de,  clerk,  566. 
,  Thomas    de,    clerk,    son    of 

William  Bene,  566. 

,  William    de,    clerk,    son    of 

]  William  Bene,  566. 

I     Germayn,  Roger,  89,  548. 
'    Gemeseye.    See  Guernsey. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


69;i 


Gemoun,  Jolin,  176. 

,  .....  sheriff  of  Essex,   140. 

Cf.  Garnoxiu. 

Gersyngton.    See  Grassington. 

Gertre.    See  Gar  tree. 

Gerveys,    Garvoys,    Andrew   son    of 

Koger,  70,  193. 

,  Robert,  566,  569. 

Thomas,  598. 

,  Wilham,  317. 

,   .....  clerk,  son    of    Roger, 

193. 
GerjTi,  John,  441. 

Cf.  Garyn. 

Gessinge.     See  Gj-ss^nige. 
Geydon,  William  de,  334. 
Geynesburgh.     See  Gainsborough. 
Geyst.     See  Gnist. 
Geystwcyt.     See  Guestwick. 
Ghent,  Gand  [E.  Flanders],  300 

,  document  dated  at.   300. 

,  St.  Pharahault.  provost  of. 

300. 
Gibba,  John,  83. 

,  Mabel  wife  of  Jolm,  83. 

Gibbe,  Robert,  472. 

Gibbes,  John,  bailiff  of  Oxford,  331. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  burgess  of  Oxford  in 

parliament,  101. 
Giffard,  Edmund,  82,  117. 

,   of  Standlake,  336,  339. 

,  Elizabeth  (Daubeneye)  wife 

of  Gilbert.  47. 

Gilbert.   47. 

.....  knight,  551. 

Jolm.  119. 

.  of  Twj-ford,  22. 

,  .....  of  Weston,  knight  of 

the  shire  of  Gloucester,  612, 
, parson    of    Warden, 

466. 

,  Mary  wife  of  Jolm,  119. 

,  Thomas  son  of  John,  22. 

Gilbert,    Bartholomew    son    of,    de 

Woterjnigburj',  54. 
,  Joan  (Taillour)  daughter  of 

Roger  son  of.  de  Lancastre. 

162. 
,  Roger  son  of,  de  Lancastre. 

162. 
Gildanwell.     See  GUdingwells. 
Gildeford.    See  Giiildford. 
Gildesburgh.     See  Guilsborough. 
Gildesburgli,     Goldesbiu-gli,     Gulde- 

bm'gh,  Guldesburgh,  Jolin  de, 

41,  42,  74,  75,  78,  281,  429, 

477,  492. 

,  Richard  de,  knight,   477. 

.,theyoimger,knight,582. 

Robert,  of  London,  540. 


GildingwelLs,  Gildanwell  [in  Laugh- 

ton-en-le-Morthen].  co.  York, 

377. 
Gille.  John,  merchant  of  Scotland,  27. 

,   of  Shaftesbury,  80. 

Gilledoghter,  Maud,  258. 
Gillesland.  See  Gilsland. 
Gillingham,  GyllJ^lgham,  co.  Dorset, 

lumdred  of,  520. 

manor  of.  520. 

, keeper  of.  520. 

,  .....  warren  of,  520. 

Gillie.  William,  55. 
Gillyng,  Richard  de,  79. 
GilljTigham,  Richard  do,  46. 

,  Thomas  de,  46. 

Gilot,  Gylot,  Nicholas,  457. 

Philip,  561. 

Cf.  Gyliot. 

Gilsland.  Gillesland    [in   Lanercost], 

CO.  Omnberland,  lord  of.     See 

Dacre,  Randolph. 
Gippewic.  See  Ipswich. 
Girdeler,  Gurdellere,  Giu-dlere,  IMar- 

garet  wife  of  Thomas,  470. 

,  Robert,  471. 

,   .....  sheriff  of  London,  79. 

,  Thomas  Virly  called,  citizen 

of  London,  470. 
girdles,  456,  579. 

of  gold,  assay  of,  1. 

Gisburn,      Giseboume,      Jolm     de, 

citizen  of  York,  275. 
.....    of    York,    merchant, 

227. 

,  William  de.  501, 

Gissing.    Gyssjoiges    [co.    Norfolk], 

378. 
Glasiere,  William,  bm-gess  of  Derby 

in  parliament,   101. 
Glassonby,    Glassanby    [in    Adding- 

ham].  CO.  Cvmiberland,  45. 
Glasswort.  cargo  of.  216. 
Glastenbu's.    See  Glastonbury. 
Glaston,  Eustace  de,  keeper  of  the 

king's  changes  in  the  Tower 

of  London,  533. 
Glastonbiu-y,  Glastenbirs  [co.  Somer- 
set], abbot  of,  83,  204. 

,  ....  and  convent  of,  278. 

Glaumville,  Jolm,  coroner  of  Lincoln- 

sliire,  8. 
Gledesey,  William,  434,  435. 
Gledewjaie,  Richard,  chaplain,  421. 
Glen,  Hugh,  Hugh  de,  of  Leicester- 
shire, 549. 
Glenfield.    Glenefeld,    Glenfeld,     co. 

Leicester,  186,  351. 
Glooston,   Gloveston,   co.   Leicester, 

manor  of,  1. 


004 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Glorye,  John  atto,  tlie  youiagui",  549. 
glossary  of    unusual  words  etc.  : — 

attilia,  166. 

baiard,  258. 

calstor,  635. 

cocche,  209,  213,  216. 

ccu/ptrie,  351. 

cowaii,  351. 

dakers,  213. 

dayvverc,  71. 

doos,  le,  608. 

ehvliicche,  351. 

faldesokene,  206. 

for  bote,  315. 

gettoiu's,  107. 

gressum,  149. 

haspo,  350. 

hastinal,  257. 

houkebot,  225. 

kyngespot,  544. 

kyppys,  213. 

maile,  303,  304. 

maynyeure,  557. 

pesagaria,   128. 

pUfel,  257,  380. 

placea,  94. 

rebinare,  71. 

redlash,  324. 

refolere,  351. 

resortti/m,  93. 

rydels,  324. 

sadelskirtes,  324. 

settere,  455. 

skyveyns,  413. 

stagiarius,  159. 

swathe,  455. 

thiltestak,  351. 

tigelhost,  296. 

tygelhous,  296. 

weye,  97. 

wodehonnes,  351. 
Gloucester  [co.   Gloucester],  bailiffs 
of,  391,  392. 

,  biu-gesses  of,  391. 

,  . .  .  . ,  in  parliament,  290, 298. 

castle,  repair  of,  43. 

,  erection  of  clock  at,  391. 

,  farm  of,  391. 

,  Holy  Trinity,  Richard  par- 
son of,  569. 

St.  Martin,  chapel  of,  391. 

,  St.  Martin's,  Seynt  Martyn 

place,  391. 

,  St.   Michael,   Adam  parson 

of,  391,  392. 

,  statute  of,  367. 

Gloucester,  county  of,  80,  83,   192, 
551. 

coroners  of,   135,   162,   170, 

235,  236. 


Gloucester,  county  of — cont, 
eschoator   in.      See   Aunsol, 

William  ;   Hortesle,  Jolm  de  ; 

Keos,  Jolm  ap. 

,  justices  of  assize  in,  466. 

,  knights  of  tho  shiro  of,  101, 

289,  298,  316,  476,  612. 
,  sheriff  of,  135,  162,  170,  209, 

235,  236,  298,  325,  326,  391, 

392,  400,    401,  476,  531,  547. 

See  also  Ledene,  William  de. 

,  taxation  of,  317,  527,  537. 

Gloucester,  honour  of,  137,  416. 
,  William  earl  of,  and  lord  of 

Bristol,    117. 
Gloucestre,  Alice  wife  of  Peter  de, 

131. 

,  John,  545. 

Glover,  Ralph,  of  Lath  bury,  clerk, 

579. 
gloves  furred  with  fox,  355. 
,  rent,   service    of,    351,    355, 

566. 
Gloveston.     See  Glooston. 
Glynton,  William  de,  cliaplain,  302. 
Gnatyngton.     See  Eaton. 
Gnypton.     See  KJnipton. 
Gobts.     See  Gotes. 
Gobyoun,  Thomas,  492. 
Godameavy,  Godemewy  [in  Meavy], 

CO.  Devon,  fee  in,  393. 
Godard,  Hugh,  chaplain,  566. 
Godo.     See  Good. 
Godebody,  Peter,  111. 
Godefrey.     See  Godfrey. 
Godemanston,  Walter  de,   472. 
Godemewy.     See  Godameavy. 
Goderich.    See  Goodrych. 
Godeshipman,  John,  130,  131. 
Godeslond,  John,  369. 
Godfrey,  Godefrey,  Godfrei,  Richard, 

389. 

Roger,   356. 

,  Sir  William,  351. 

Godithestre.     See  Easter,  Good. 
Godwj'n,  Richard,   189. 
Godwyneston.     See  Goodnestone. 
Godyngge,  Alexander,  611. 
Golafre,  Golofre,  John,  knight,  448, 

561,  581. 
,  Nicholas,  laught  of  the  shire 

of  Hertford,  101. 

,  William,  242. 

Golapyn,  Nicholas,  560. 

Golborne,  Goldesbum  [in  Winwick], 

CO.  Lancaster,  manor  of,  500. 
gold,  34,  42. 

,  currency  of,  303,  304. 

,  girdles  of,  assay  of,  1. 

,  mines  of,  106,  194,  563, 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


695 


gold — cont. 

money,  marks  on,  305. 

,  prohibition    of    export    of, 

114,  115,  228. 

sliip  cari'ying,  27. 

Goldbetere,  Maud,  wife  of  GeofTrey, 

of  Holborn,  552. 
Goldesbm-gli.     Sec  Gildesbiirgh. 
Groldesburn.     See  Golborne. 
Goldington,     Goldj'gton,     Goldyng- 

ton,  GoldJ^lton,  John  de,   3. 

315. 
,  .  .  .  . ,     son     of     John     do. 

kniglit,  98,  99. 

,  Joyce  wife  of  John  de,  3. 

Goldsmj^tli,  John,  citizen  of  Worces- 
ter in  parliament,  290. 
Goldwire,  Tliomas,  324. 
Goldygton.    See  Goldington. 
Goldyng,  John,   109,  292,  349,  546. 

, ,  the  elder,  309. 

,  William,   146. 

GoldjTigham,  Alexander  de,  593,  594. 

, ,  knight,  470,  563,  587. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  verderer  of  the  forest 

of  Essex,  23. 
GoIdjTigton,  GoldjTiton.     See  Gold- 
ington. 
Golet.     See  Wealdgullet. 
Golofre.    See  Golafre. 
Goneley,  John,  244. 
Gonliale,  Geoffrey,  344,  345. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Dartford,  536. 

Gonwardby,  John  de,  555. 
Gon3'ldesbiir3\     See  Gnnnersbury. 
Good,    Gode,    Richard,    servant    of 

Nicholas  Revel,  472. 

,  Robert,  18. 

Good  Easter.     See  Easter. 
Goodnestone  [by  Faversham],  God- 

wyneston,    co.    Kent,    manor 

of,  167. 
Goodrych,  Goderich,  Jolm,  145. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  king's  yeoman,  bailiff 

of  Garti"ee  hundred,  135. 
,  William,      rector      of      St. 

Mildred,    Bread    Street,    293, 

294. 
Gore,  la  Gore  by  Lavynton  [in  West 

Lavington],  co.  Wilts,  175. 

manor  of.  47,  175. 

Gore,  Thomas,  601. 
Gorges,  Theobald,  151. 

,  knight,  280. 

gorse,  212. 

Grosberkirk,    Thomas  son  of  Robert 

de,  263,  267. 
Gosberton,  Gosberkirk,  GosberkjTk, 

CO.  Lincoln,  263,  267. 
,  marsh  of,  405. 


'     Gosberton — cont, 

parson  of.    See  Cloune,  Giles 

de. 
Cheal,  Choilo  [in  Gosberton, 

CO.   Lincoln],   manor  of,   458. 
Gosbom*ne,    Gosebourne,    John    de, 

187,  582. 
Goscote,  himdrod  of,  co.Leicester,374. 
Gosebourne.     See  Gosboume. 
Gosewolde,  Roger,  494. 
Gosfield,  Gosfeld,  co.  Essex,  573. 

,  fee  in,  492. 

Gosford,    Gosseford    [co.    Suffolk — 

sttbiiierged],  keepers  of  passage 

in  port  of,  449. 
gospels,  oath  upon,  424,  577. 
Gosseford.     See  Gosford. 
Gosselyn,  Walter,  425. 

Cf.  Gyselyn. 

Goteham,  Adam  de,  567. 

Grotes,    Gobts,    John   de,   parson   of 

Lancing,  405,  407. 
Gothurst.  See  Gayhiu'st. 
Goudliurst,  CO.  Kent,  Combwell,  Com- 

mewell  priory  in,  364. 
Goudlayne,  William,  425. 
Gounce,  John,  of  Toppesfield,   388. 
Goushull,  Alice  wife  of  Richard  de, 

363. 

Richard  de,  363. 

Gouvene,   Lawrence,   chaplain,   422. 

Cf.  Jeovene. 

Gouys,  Thomas,  393. 
Gower,  land  of,  Oowerria  [co.  Glamor- 
gan], 123,  124. 
,  lord  of.     See  Bello  Campo, 

Thomas  de. 
gowns,  456. 
Gra,  Graa,  Thomas,  97. 

, ,  of  York,  98. 

William,  59. 

,  .  .  .  . ,    citizen    of     York    in 

parliament,  299. 
Grace,  Francis,  burgess  of  Calais,  306. 

,  WiUiam,  421. 

Grafton   Flyford,  \inder  Flavel,  co. 

Worcester,    manor    of,     108, 

453,  454. 
,  West,       Westgi'afton       [co. 

Wilts],  155. 
Grafton,  Roger  de,  108,  109. 
Grammary,  William  son  of  John,  539. 
Grandborough,       Greneburgh      [co. 

Warwick],  334. 
Grand   Coiu-t,    Grantcortes   [in   Foi- 
sted, CO.  Essex],  manoi  of,  574. 
Grande,  Goncaleon,  sliip-master,  of 

Portugal,  270. 

Cf'.  Graimt. 

'     Chrandvi  Mons.     See  Grosniont. 


096 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Grandisono,    Graiidissono,    Graunt- 

8on,  Tliomas  do,  kiiight,   81, 

84,  85,  186. 
Grantchester,    Gransete    [co.    Cam- 
bridge], 604. 
Grantcortes.    See  Grand  Court. 
Grantham,  co.  Lincoln,  534. 
,  aldormen   and   commonalty 

of,  249. 

bailiffs  of,  482. 

Grapnells,  Grapynclis,  in  Great  Yeld- 

ham,  CO.  Essex,  609. 
Grassington,  Gersyngton,  Gressyng- 

ton  in  Craven  [co.  York],  572. 

,  deed  dated  at,  572. 

Grauncourt,  Andi-ew,  106. 
Graunt,  John  lo,  453. 

,  Peter,  519. 

Cf.  Grande. 

Gra\intson.     See  Grandisono. 
Grave,  Giles  do  la,  of  Little  Clacton, 

425,  426. 

,  Joan  wife  of  Giles  de  la,  426. 

Gravele,  John,  285. 

Gravenore,  Richard..  Richard  de,  356. 

, ranger     of     Fecken- 

ham  forest,  65. 
.......  ....  son  of  Thomas  de,  356. 

Gravesend,      Gravesende,      Graves- 

hende  [co.  Kent],  20,  27,  28, 

480. 

,  bailiffs  of,  362. 

,  controller  of  works  at.     See 

Page,  John. 

,  repair  of  manor  of,  167. 

,  searcher  in  port  of,  20. 

Graveshale,  John  de,  492. 
Graveshende.     See  Gravesend. 
Gray.     See  Grey. 
Grayberd,  WiUiam,  206. 
Graystok.    See  Greystok,  Greystoke. 
Greasley,  Greseleye,  co.  Nottingham, 

castle  of,  252. 
Greatham,  Gretham,  co.  Hants,  ad- 

vowson  of,  513. 

,  manor  of,   513. 

,  parsons     of.       See     Abbot, 

Richard  ;    Erl,  William  le. 
Greenford,     Great     Greneford     [co. 

Middlesex],    rector    of.      See 

Ptilmer,  Walter. 

,  rectory  of,  buildings  of,  103. 

Greenhoe,    North,    Northgrenhowe, 

CO.  Not  folk,  constable  of  hun- 
dred of,  489. 
Greens   Norton,   Norton   Davj',   co. 

Northampton,    advowson   of, 

47. 

,  hundred  of,  47,  48. 

,  manor  of,  47,  48. 


Greenwich,    Grenewich    [co.    Kent], 

226. 
Greetham,    Gretham,    co.    Rutland, 
612. 

manor  of,  127. 

Gregory  XI,  pope  of  Rome,  envoys 
of,  387. 

,  receiver     of     liis     dues     in 

England.  »See        Gamier, 

Arnald. 
Gregory,  Gregori,  John,  343. 

, of  Craike,  255. 

,  ....  son  of  Jolm,  of  Craike, 

159. 

WUIiam,  590. 

Greilonde.    See  Greylonde. 
Grendale,  W^illiam  son  of  Marmaduke 

de,  knight,  258. 
Grendon  [in  Witheridge,  co.  Devon], 
fee  in,  523. 

[co.  Northampton],  parson  of. 

See  Weston,  Plxilip  de. 
Grene,  Henry,  knight,  47,  48. 

.  . .  son  of  Henry,  knight, 
48,  49,  53. 

Jolm,  John  atte,  John  de  la, 
356. 

,  clerk,  364. 

. .  .  . ,  of  Grandborough,  334. 
Nicholas,  430. 
....  in  le,  356. 
.....  knight  of  the  shire  of 
Rutland,  289. 
.....  of  Isham,  589. 

, ,  clerk,  610. 

Richard,  509. 
Simon  atte,  338. 
Thomas      son      of     Henry, 
knight,  47,  48,  53. 
Walter  atte,  286. 
William  de,  keeper  of  Knapp 
park,  261. 
Greneburgh.     See  Grandborough. 
Greneford.     See  Greenford. 
Greneford,  Hugh  de,  of  Middlesex. 

536. 
GrenehuU,  Grenehil,  John,  parson  of 
Stanton,  458. 

,  Thomas,  Thomas  de.   18. 

,  .....    coroner    of    Notting- 
hamshire, 237. 
,  .  .  . . ,    escheator   in   Derby- 
shire, 368,  374,  488. 
.....    ....   in  Nottingham- 
shire, 237,  394,  396,  397. 
Grenewich.    See  Greenwich. 
Grenstede.    See  Grinstead, 
Grenwych,  Jolin,  225. 
Gresby,  Benedict  de,  clerk,  96. 
Greseleye.    See  Greasley,  Gresley. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


697 


Gresley,  Grosoloye,  Grysolaye,  Grys- 
Icy,  Joliii  do,  642. 

,  . .  . .,  shorift'  of  CO.  Notting- 
ham, 390. 

,  . .  .  . ,  sheriff  of  co.  Stafford. 

270. 

,  William  do.  chaplain,  102. 

,  clork,  277,  535,  536. 

Gressyngton.     See  Grassington. 

Gresto,  Kichard,  352. 

Gretewell,  Thomas  de,  farmer  ol 
subsidy,  423. 

Gretham.    Sec  Groatham,  Greetham. 

Grevette,  Simon  atte,  98. 

Grey,  Gray,  Alice  wife  of  Thomas  de, 
389,  390. 

Henry  do,  151. 

,  ....  father  of   Reynold  de, 

168,  223. 

,  ....  son  of  Reynold  de,  151, 

163. 

,  Jolin  de,  knight,  82. 

of  Codnor,  462,  463. 

, ,    of    Rotherfield,    293. 

lord  de,  of  Ruthin,  61. 

,  Maud  wife  of  Rejoiold  de, 

150,  151,  163,  168,  223. 

Reynold  de,  lord  of  Ruthin, 

158. 

,  . .  . . ,  of  Ruthin,  knight,  77. 

, ,  of  Wilton,    150,    151, 

163,  168,  223. 

,  Roger,  knight,  415. 

,  ....    son    of    Thomas    de, 

knight,  389,  390. 

,  Thomas,  knight,  415. 

,  of  Brent  Pelham,  587. 

,  ....    son    of    Thomas,  415, 

416. 

Greyeshalle  in  Cavendish,  co.  S\iffolk, 
389. 

greyhounds,  456. 

service  of  keeping,  364. 

Greylonde,  Greilondo.  Amice  wifo  of 
Robert,  582,  583. 

,  John  son  of  Robert,  582. 

,  Robert,  fishmonger  of  Lon- 
don, 582,  583. 

Greystok,  Graystok,  Henry  de,  con- 
stable of  Somerton  castle,  398. 

,  Ralph  son  of  William  de,  42, 

283,  284. 

,  William  de,  baron  of  Grey- 
stoke,  42,  147. 

Greystoke,  Graystok  [co.  Cimiber- 
land],  baron  of.  See  Grey- 
stok. 

Johnby,  Jonby  in,  147. 

park,  284. 

Griffin  ap  Eynon,  497. 


Griffith,   Griffuth,   Rco  ap,   knight 

552. 
Grimsby,    Grymosby,    co.    Lincoln, 

286,  500. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  510. 

,  bailiffs  of,  115,  201,  482. 

,  burgesses  of,  in  parliament, 

299,  477. 

,  maj'or  of,  115,  482. 

,  port  of,  keepers  of  passage 

in,  449. 
Grinstead,  East,  Estgrenostede,  Gron- 

Rtede,    CO.    Sussex,    burgesses 

of,  in  parliament,  101.  297. 
Gripeston,  Riciiard,  coroner  of  Lin- 
colnshire, 9. 
Grithiwissch.    See  Huish  ? 
groat,  weight  of,  303. 
Groby    [in    Rat  by,    co.    Leicester], 

351. 
,  Ferrers   of,    229,    232,    273, 

327,  348,  354,  355,  453,  485, 

486. 

manor  house  of,  350. 

,  .....  rooms  named  in,  350. 

,  places  named  in,  351. 

Gromenebrigge.     See  Groom  bridge. 
Grondewelle,  Robert,  clork,  475. 
Groombridge,    Gromenebrigge    [cos. 

Kent  and  Sxissex],  96. 
gi'ooms,  chevage  of,  205 
Gros,  John  le,  knight,  550. 
Grosmont  (Orandis  Mons)  in  Eskdale 

[in  Egton],  co.  York,  prior  of. 

16. 

,  ....  and  brethren  of,  17. 

Grotoft,  Peter,  292. 

Grove,  Giles  atte,  472, 

,  Joan   wife   of   Walter   atte, 

368. 

,  Jolm,  483. 

,  Roger  son  of  Walter  atte, 

514. 

,  Thomas,  Thomas  atte,  313. 

,     prior    provincial     of 

the  order  of  Austin  friars,  461. 
,  Walter    atte,     of     Chalfont 

St.  Giles,  514. 
Grubbe,  Agnes  daughter  of  Robert, 

410. 
,  Alice   daughter   cf   Robert, 

410. 

Henry,  276. 

,  Margaret    wife    of    Robert, 

410. 

,  Robert,  410. 

Gryme,  Henry,  of  London,  605,  606. 
Grymesby.     See  Grimsby. 
Grymesby,     John    de,     burgess     of 

Grimsby  in  parUament,  477 


698 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Gryraesby — cont. 

Petor  de,  burgess  of  King- 

ston-upon-Hull  in  parliament, 

290. 
,  .  .  .  . ,      of      Ivingston-upon- 

HuU.  92. 
Thomas    de,     piu'veyor     of 

corn  for  Calais,  212. 
Gryselaye,  Gryslay.     See  Grosley. 
Grytt,  William,  331. 
guardians  of  tho  peace,  appointment 

of,  18. 
Guaygnot,  John,  merchant  of  Brit- 
tany, 32,  33,  50. 
Guernsey,      Garnereye,      Gerneseye, 

island  of,  141. 
,  keeper    of,    524.      See.    also 

Huwet,  Walter. 
Guestwick,  Geystweyt  [co.  Norfolk], 

598. 
Guetaria,  Guetaray,  Guetary  [Spain, 

province  of  GuipuzcoaJ,  ship- 
masters of,  488. 
Guildford,  Gildeford,  Guldeford,  co. 

Sm-rey,  334. 
,  burgesses  of,  in  parliament, 

290,  297. 
,  letters  close  dated  at,  222, 

227,  228,  302. 

,  ordinance  made  at,    395. 

,  the  king's  pai'k  of,  14. 

guilds,  413. 

Guilsborough,       Gildesbiurgh,       co. 

Northampton,  84. 
Guisborough,  Gysburgh  [co.  York], 

prior  of,  174. 
Guist,  Geyst  [co.  Norfolk],  598. 
Guldeburgh.      See  Gildesburgh. 
Guldeford.     See  Guildford. 
Guldeford,  Andrew  de,  constable  of 

Dover  castle  and  warden  of 

the  Cinque  Ports,  357. 

,  WiUiam,  82,  172. 

Guldesburgh.     See  Gildesburgh. 
Gulsand,  John,  ship-master,  385. 
Gulyas,  Walter,  of  Sturton,  309. 
Gunnays,  Gunneys,  Jolxn,  442,  443. 
Gunnersbury,      Gonyldesbury,      co. 

Middlesex,  manor  of,   535. 
Gtmneys.     See  Gunnays. 
Gunthorp,  William  de,  treasurer  of 

Calais,  225. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  king's  clerk,  227. 

Gimthorpe.     See  Countesthorpe  ? 
Gunwardby,  Nicholas,  of  Culworth, 

441. 
Gurdellere,  Gurdlere.    See  Girdeler. 
Gurneye,  Gurnay,  Edmimd,  64,  598. 
Gurston,     Gterardeston      [in     Broad 

Chalke,  co.  Wilts],  344. 


Gust,  Jolm,  of  Winchester,  371. 
Guyon,  Peter,  tho  king's  Serjeant  at 

arn^s,  524. 
Gv,  John,  324. 

Robert,  440,  441,  597. 

,  . . . .,  coroner  of  Middlesex, 

8. 
Gyee,  John,  331. 
Gyhot,  John,  79. 

Of.  Gilot. 

Gyllyngham.    See  Gillingham. 

Gyhnyn,  Jolm,  332. 

Gylot.    See  Gilot. 

Gyneye,  Geney,  Gynay,  John,  citizen 

of  Norwich,  222. 
,  Roger,  Roger  de,  assessor  of 

subsidy,  489. 

,  knight,  360,  550. 

Gyngejoberdlaundry,  Gynge  Joiberd 

Laundry,  Gyngejoyberdlaun- 

dri.     See  Blounts. 
Gyppewic.     See  Ipswich. 
Gyrwy,  Thomas,  of  Erith,  80. 
Gys,  Wmiam,  51. 

Cf.  Gees. 

Gysburgh.     See  Guisborough. 
Gyselyn,  Peter,  master  of  la  Hogbote 

of  Flanders,  20. 

Cf.  Gosselyn. 

Gyssynge,   Gessinge,  Agnes  wife  of 

Thomas  de,  553. 

,  Edmund  de,  315. 

,  Katherine  wife  of  Edmund 

de,  315. 
,  Thomas    de,     knight,     552, 

553,  554. 
Gyssynges.     »See  Gissing. 


H 


Hacche.     See  Hatch  Beauchamp. 
Hacche,  Adam  atte,  189. 

,  Robert  de,  439,  441. 

Hacchesham.     See  Hatcham. 
Hacconby,    Hacomby,    co.    Lincoln, 

195,  196. 
Hachesham.     See  Hatcham. 
Hackington,  Hakynton  [co.Kent],  97. 
Haclaiess,  Hakeneys  [co.  York],  541. 
Hackney,  Hakeney  [co.  Middlesex], 

parson    of.      See    Middelton, 

Thomas  de. 
Haclute.    See  Hakeluyt. 
Hacomby.     See  Hacconby. 
Haddele.     See  Hadle,  Hadleigh. 
Haddenham,  co.  Cambridge,  266. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


699 


Haddosoro.     See  Hadsor. 
Haddoston  [in  Bunwell],  co.  Norfolk, 

manor  of,  564. 
Haddon,     West,    Westhaddon    [co. 

Nortlianipton],   312. 

,  deed  dated  at,  312. 

,  manor  in,  312. 

Haddon,  John  de,  tho  king's  serjeant 

at  arms,  189,  312. 
,  LawTenco    de,     burgess    of 

Northampton  in  parliament, 

101. 
Haderesham,  Jolm  do,  the  elder,  419. 
Hadlo,  Haddele,  Jolm  de,  323. 

,  Simon,  87. 

,  Stephen  de,  yeoman  of  queen 

Pliilippa's  chamber,  520. 
Hadleigh,  Haddele,  co.  Essex,  408. 

castle  of,  573. 

,  letters  close  dated  at,  568. 

park  of,  573. 

Hadsor,  Haddesore  [co.  Worcester], 

108. 
Haggarston,  Robert  de,  256. 
Haghenljiih.    See  Hanlith. 
HaghAvill.    See  Halwell. 
Hagworthingham,        Hagworthyng- 

ham,  CO.  Lincoln,  379. 
Haigate  park  [near  Great  Torring- 

ton  ?],  CO.  Devon,  342. 
Hailes,  Hayles,  abbey  [co.  Glouces- 
ter], 181. 
Hainault,   Hanou  [Belgimn],  rights 

of  queen  Pliilippa  in,  314. 
Hakeboume,  Robert,  Robert  do,  318, 

427,  597. 
Hakeluyt,         Haclute,         Hakelut, 

Thomas,    Thomas   de,    canon 

of  Hereford,  318,  319. 
, ,    clerk,    69,    109,    429, 

554. 
Hakenet.     See  Haughley. 
Hakeney.     See  Hackney. 
Hakeneys.     See  Hackness. 
Hakenshawe,  Hakensowe,  John  de, 

clerk,  268. 
,  Roger  de,  escheator  in  Ire- 
land, 395. 
Haket,  Thomas,  280. 
Hake  well.     See  Hawkwell. 
Hakseye,  William,   of   Hedyngham, 

coroner  for  co.  Lincoln,   144. 
Hakynton.     See  Hackington. 
Halden,  Haldeyn,  William,  William 

de,  98,  309,  321,  433,  452. 

,  .  .  .  .,  citizen  of  London,  74. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Sneinton,  334. 

,  recorder   of    London, 

228,  309,  437,  443,  470,  684. 
Haldyngham.     See  Holdingham. 


Haldyngham,  John  de,  534. 

Hale,  CO.  Hants,  manor  of,  164. 

,  CO.  Lancaster,  54. 

Hale,  Andrew  atto,  481. 

Henry,  105. 

,  Jolm  atto,  sheriff  of  Dorset- 
shire, 213. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  of  Somersetshire, 

369. 

,  . . . . ,  son  of  Lawrence  atto, 

481. 

LawTence  atte,  of  Kent,  481. 

,  Walter  atte,  parson  of  Ivis- 

lingburv,  580. 

Cf.  Halle. 

Hales,  CO.  Norfolk,  180. 

Hales,  John  de,  180. 

,  Robert     de,    prior     of     the 

hospital  of  St.  John  of  Jeru- 
salem in  England,  568. 

Thomas  de,  chaplain,  180. 

,  William  do,  180. 

Halewelle,  John,  chaplain,  80. 

Halghewell.     See  Hal  will. 

Halghle.    See  Hawley. 

Halghstede.      See  Hoisted. 

Halghton.     See  Halughton. 

Haliday,  Matthew,  of  Layer  Marney, 
425. 

Hall,  Old.     See  Old  Hall. 

Hallamshire,  Haihunshire,  Halum- 
shiiv,  CO.  York,  461. 

Hallaton,  Haluton  [co.  Leicester], 
570. 

Halle,  John,  John  atte,  John  de, 
459,  589. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  burgess  of  Colchester 

in    parliament,    299. 

,  . .  . . ,  bvu"gess  of  Great  Yar- 
mouth in  parliament,  299. 

Ricliard,    Richard   de,    293, 

295,  296. 

,  Walter  ate,  atte,  194,  605. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  coroner  of  co.  Oxford, 

233. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  of  Adderbury,  605. 

,  William,  William  de  la,  449. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  biu'gess  of  Maldon  in 

parliament,~'299,  477. 

Cf.  Hale. 

Hallingbxiry,  Little,  Halyngbury, 
Hallyngbery,  co.  Essex, 
manor  of,  496. 

,  park  of,  496. 

,  parson    of.      See    Maykyn, 

John. 

Hallumshire.     See  Hallamshire. 

HalljTigbeiy.     See  Hallingbury. 

Halman,  William,  282. 

Halsbury,  Tliomas,  82. 


700 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Halsen,  William,  538. 

Halsliajii,     Jiobort,    knight    of    the 

shire  of  Sussex,  476. 
Halstow,  High,  Halwosto  in  Hoo  [co. 
Kent],  97. 

,  Lower,    Halwosto    by    Up- 

cherclw  [co.  Kent],  97. 
Halswill,  Agnes,  343. 
Hedton,  Haulton  [in  CorbridgeJ,  co. 
Nortliumberland,   manor    of, 
521. 
Haltwliistle,     co.     Nortliimiberland, 

Langley  in,  31. 
Halughton,   Halghton,   William   de, 
270. 

,  . . . . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Stafford,  476. 

Cf.  Holgliwoton. 

Hahimshire.     See  Hallamshire. 

Halnton.     See  Hallaton. 

Halwell,  Haghwill  [in  Brixton],  co. 

Devon,  fee  in,  393. 
Halwesto.     See  Halstow. 
Halwill,  Halghewell,  co.  Devon,  223. 
Halyng,  Thomas,  427. 
Halyngbury.      See  Hallingbury. 
Ham,  East,  Esthanune,  co.   Essex, 
456. 

West,    Hamme,    Westham, 

Westhamme,  co.  Essex,   132, 
451,  455,  456. 

,  . .  . . ,  deed  dated  at,  455. 

, ,  Sudbm-y  in,  132. 

Hambledon,    Hameldon,    co.  Buck- 
ingham, advowson  of,  73. 
.......  manor  of,  73, 

Hambury,  John,  escheator  in  Wor- 
cestershire, 418. 
Hamelak.    See  Helmsley. 
Hameldon.    See  Hambledon. 
Hamely,  Joan  wife  of  John,  531. 

Jolin,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Dorset,  290. 
HameljTi,  John,  583. 

,  Robert,  367. 

Hamertone,    John    de,    verderer    of 

Galtres  forest,  237,  362. 
Hames,  Hammes  castle  [France,  dep. 
Pas-de-Calais],    constable    of. 
See  Story,  Richard. 
Hamesone,  Richard,  351. 
Ham  Green,  the  Hamme  in  Witter- 

sham,  CO.  Kent,  313. 
Ham    Marshes,     Hammesmersh     in 
Luddenham,  Oare,  Faversham 
and  Preston,  co.  Kent,  585. 
Hamme.       See    Georgeham,     Ham, 

Hamsey. 
Hammes.    See  Hames,  Hamsey. 
Hammesmersh.     See  Ham  Marshes. 


Hamon,  Robert  son  of,  founder  of 

Tewkesbury    abbey,    lord    of 

Bristol,  117. 
Hamound,  Jolm,  of  Famingham,  583. 
Hampslak,    Uanipslape.      See   Han- 
slope. 
Hampstead     Marshall,     Hampstedo 

Marshall,   co.  Dorset,  manor 

of,  17. 
Hampstede,  Hamstede,  John,  106. 
,  ....  de,  saddler,  of  London, 

332. 
Hampsthwaite,  Hampthwait,  Hamp- 

thwayt,  CO.  York,  manor  of, 

396,  469. 
Hampton,  Ricliard  de,  of  Stafford- 

sliire,  426. 

,  Thomas  de,  551. 

,  .....  laiight,  71,  72. 

,  William,  of  Hythe,  baron  of 

the  Cinque  Ports,  299. 
Hamsey,     Hanune,     Hammes,     co. 

Sussex,  manor  of,  37. 
Hamslade  [in  Oakford]  ?  Holmslade, 

CO.  Devon,  342. 
Hamstede.     See  Hampstede. 
Hanamstede,  Thomas,  441. 
Hanand.     See  Henand. 
Hanbergh.     See  Handborough. 
Hancepe,  Margaret  wife  of  Thomas, 

336. 

,  Thomas,  336. 

Handborough,    Hanbergh    [co.    Ox- 
ford], 232. 

,  manor  of,  232. 

Handsworth,    Handesworth,    Hane- 

wcrthstele,  co.  York,  417,  461. 

,  manor  of,  461. 

Hanecok,  John,  of  Kent,  279. 

,  Walter,  clerk,  431. 

Hanekyn,  John,  citizen  of  London,  89. 

,  Richard,  71,  72. 

Cf.  Haukyn. 

Hanemere,  David  de,  446,  448. 
Haneworthstele.     See  Handsworth. 
Hangleton,   Hangelton,   co.    Sussex, 

manor  of,  21. 
Hanham,  Richard,  farmer  of  subsidy, 

317. 
Hanigfeld,  Hanyfeld,  William,   102, 

457. 
Hanley,  Hanle,  Hanlegh,  Robert, 370. 
,  Thomas      de,      coroner      of 

Worcestershire,  8. 
,  Walter   de,   the   king's  ser- 
geant at  arms,  229. 
,  .  .  .  . ,     .  .  .  . ,    heutenant    of 

the   admii'al   of   the   western 

fleet,  270,  371. 
Cf.  Henle. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


701 


Hanlith,  Haghonlyth  [in  Kirkby-in- 

MalJiamdalo],  co.  York,  7. 
Hannoy,  Thomas,  of  Missenden,  545. 
Hannys,  William,  356. 
Hanou.     See  Hainault. 
Hanslope,    Hainpslak,     Hampslape, 

CO.  Buckingham,  3,32. 

,  deed  dated  at,  332. 

,  manor  of,   123. 

Hansty.    See  Asty. 

Hanwode,   Robert  do,  merchant  of 

London,  344. 
Hanyfeld.     See  Hanigfeld. 
Harawdon.     See  Hai'wedon. 
Harbard,  Walter,  of  Medboiirne,  568. 
Harberd,  Walter,  of  Manton,  570. 

Cf.  Herberd. 

Harborough,  Herdeborogh,  cc.  War- 
wick, 430. 

,  advowson  of,  430. 

Harcla,  Andrew  de,  4,  5. 

,  ....,    keeper   of   his  lands. 

See  Lucy,  Antony  de. 

,  Joan  wife  of  Michael  de,  4,  5. 

,  IVIichael  de,  knight,  4,  5. 

Hardegraye,  Hardegrey,  Roger,  478. 

William,  598. 

Harden,  Hauedenne  in  Penshurst,  co. 

Kent,  116. 
Harderne.     See  Ai-derne. 
Harderwick,    Harderwyk    [Holland, 

Gtelderland],  ship  of,  404. 
Hardy,  John,  coroner  of  co.  Oxford, 

135. 

,  Nicholas,  498. 

Harecoiirt,   Elizabeth   (de  Asteleye) 

daughter  of  Richard  son  of 

William  de,  60. 

,  Godfrey  de,  597. 

,  Joan  wife  of  William  de,  60. 

,  John   de,    of    Market    Bos- 
worth,  61. 

,  Wilham  de,  60. 

Harefield,  Herefeld,    co.   Middlesex, 

manor  of.  279. 
Hareford.     See  Haverfordwest, 
hares,  45. 

Harewedon.     See  Harwedon. 
Harewell,  John  de,  bishop  of  Bath 

and  Wells,  252,  539. 
,  William,  William  de,  clerk, 

182-185,  335. 
,  .  .  . . ,    rector   of   Penshiu-st, 

116. 
Harewode.     See  Harewood. 
Harowold,  John,  of  Hcnlow,  51. 

Cf.  Harold. 

Harewood,  Harewode,  Harwode,  co. 

York,  45,  114. 
,  fulling  mill  at,  114. 


Harewood — cont. 

,  lord  of.    See  Insula,  Jolui  de. 

manor  of,  234. 

Harlaston.     See  Harleston. 

Harlebeke,  Herlebeke  [West  Flan- 
ders], provost  of,  300. 

Harleston,  Harlaston,  Horlaston, 
Herleston,  John  do,  clerk, 
440,  531,  532. 

,     ....,    parson    of     Shifnal, 

562. 

,  Roger,  Roger  de,  70,  71,  457, 

587. 

Harlestone.     See  Harston. 

Harleye,  Burga  wife  of  Robert  de, 
274. 

,  John  de,  96. 

,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Worcester,  100. 

Cf.  Herle. 

Harlow,  Herlawe,  co.  Essex,  568. 

,  hundred  of,  496. 

Harnage,  Katherine  wife  of  Richard, 
208. 

Richard,   208. 

Harneys,  John,  318. 

Harnham,  Oliver  de,  600. 

Harnhill,  Harnhull,  co.  Gloucester, 
manor  of,   197,  200. 

Harold,  William,  592. 

Cf.  Harewold. 

Harpley,  Harpelee,  Herpelee  [co. 
Norfolk],  parson  of.  See 
Wolterton,  John  de. 

Harpswell,  Herpeswelle  [co.  Lin- 
coln], parson  of.  See  Wliite- 
welle,  Stephen  de. 

Harrewode.     See  Harwode. 

Harringay,  Haryngeseye  [in  Hom- 
sey],  CO.  Middlesex,  536. 

Harringworth,  Har^Tigworth,  co. 
Northampton,   15,  48,  379. 

,  deed  dated  at,  589. 

,  lord  of.  See  Zouche,  Wil- 
liam la. 

Harrow,  co.  Middlesex,  Uxendon, 
Woxindon  in,  536. 

See  Pepper  Harrow. 

Harsley,  East,  co.  York,  Bordelby, 
Borthelby  in,  588. 

Harston,  Harlestone,  co.  Cambridge, 
inanor  of,  565. 

Harston,  Harstoun,  Hugh,  250. 

Harswell,  Hersewell  [co.  York],  84. 

,  Adam  parson  of,  84. 

Harting,  HertjTig  [co.  Sussex],  405, 
407. 

Hartlepool,  Hertil])ole  [co.  Durham], 
baihffs  of,  264,  482. 

,  mayor  of,  264. 


702 


GENERAL    INI>EX. 


Hartlington,  Hertlyngton  [in  Bum- 
sail],  CO.  York,  manor  of,  7, 
39. 

Hartlip,  Hertclepe,  co.  Kent,  46. 

Hartwoll,  Hertvvell  [co.  Northamp- 
ton], 332,  r)51. 

,  deed  dated  at,  552. 

Harty,  Horthey,  co.  Kent,  20. 

Harrington,  Herewpiton  [co.  Wor- 
cester], manor  of,  108. 

Harwedon,  Harawdon,  Harowcdon, 
John,  John  do,  93,  343,  450, 
555,  556. 

,  . .  . . ,  verderer  of  Rocking- 

liam,  236. 

Harwich,  Herewych,  Herwj'ch,  co. 
Essex,  manor  of,  376. 

,  ship  of,  227. 

Harwode.    See  Harewood,  Harwood. 

Harwode,  Harrewode,  John  de,  442, 
453,  454,  455. 

,  . .  .  . ,  clerk,  549. 

Harwood,  Harwode  [in  Bolton  le 
Moors],  CO.  Lancaster,  manor 
of,  500. 

HarjTigeay,  Robert,  mercer  of  Lon- 
don, 218. 

HarjTigeseye.     See  Harringay. 

Haryngton,  John  de,  heir  of,  234. 

,  Robert  de,  1,  2. 

Haryngworth.     See  Hai*ringworth. 

Haselden,  Hasilden,  Hesylden, 
Thomas  de,  73,  91,  93. 

Haseley,  Hasele,  co.  Warwick,  manor 
of,  108,  453,  454. 

.......  Great,    Hasele,    Haselo,    co. 

Oxford,  manor  of,  496,  505, 
506,  508. 

Haselond.     See  Hasland. 

Haselwode.     See  Hazlewood. 

Hasfeld.     See  Hatfeld. 

Hasilden.     See  Haselden. 

Hasilwode.    See  Hazlewood. 

Hasingham,  Asingham  [co.  Norfolk], 
advowson  of,  547. 

Haske,  Vaske  [in  Upton  Helions], 
CO.  Devon,  fee  in,  339,  357, 
523. 

Hasland,  Haselond  [in  Chesterfield], 
CO.  Derby,  509. 

Hastang,  Joan  daughter  of  John,  608. 

,  John,  591,  608. 

,  Maud  daughter  of  John,  590, 

608. 

Cf.  Hastynges. 

Hastings,  Hastynges  [co.  Sussex], 
299. 

,  bailiffs  of,  115,  201,  483. 

,  mayor  of,  115,  483. 

,  port  of,  24. 


Hastings,  port  of — cont. 

,  cliiof    of    the    Cinque 

Ports,  25. 

,  rape  of,  593. 

Hasty.     See  Asty. 

Hastynges.     See  Hastings. 

Hastynges,  Anne  wife  of  John  de, 
434,  550. 

,  Jolm,  John  de,  John  son  of 

Lawrence  de,  earl  of  Pem- 
broke, 29,  49,  78,  158,  167,  520. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  lord  of  Wexford  and 

Abergavenny,    434,    549. 

,  Juliana      (Leybourne      and 

Clinton)  de  countess  of  Hunt- 
ingdon, 46,  52,  117,  167. 

,  Lawrence  de,  earl  of  Pem- 
broke, 49. 

Ralph  de,  knight,  94,  459. 

Cf.  Hastang. 

Hatcham,  Hacchesham,  Hachesham, 
Hattesham,  Hecchesham  [in 
Camberwell  and  Deptford], 
cos.  Surrey  and  Kent,  55,  344. 

,  lady     of.       See     Dartford, 

prioress  of. 

,  manor  of,  55,  421. 

,  places  named  in,  55. 

Hatch  Bcauchamp,  Hacche  Beau- 
champ,  CO.  Somerset,  lady  of. 
See  Turberville,  Cicely. 

Hatfeld,  Hasfeld,  Hattefeld,  Hattes- 
feld,  Ellen  wife  of  John  de, 
502,  606. 

,  John,    John   de,    citizen   of 

London,  606. 

, ,  clerk,  481,  529. 

, Idng's  clerk,  keeper  of 

the  king's  armour  in  the 
Tower,  584. 

,  Richard,   349. 

,  Robert,  Robert  de,  323,  456. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  sheriff  of  London,  536. 

,  Thomas  de,  bishop  of  Dur- 
ham, 19,  83,  204,  250,  252, 
319,  361,  463,  464,  483,  609. 

,  William,  453. 

Hatfield  Broad  Oak,  Hatfeld  le  Roy, 
Regis,  Roi,  co.  Essex,  manor 
of,  495,  600-602. 

Peverel,  Hatfeld,  co.  Essex, 

346. 

Hathewy,  Thomas,  knight  of  the 
shire  of  Gloucester,  612. 

Hatley,  Cocka>Tie,  Hatlee,  co.  Bed- 
ford, advowson  of,  448. 

,  deed  dated  at,  448. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  448. 

Hattefeld,  Hattesfeld.     See  Hatfeld. 

Hattesham.     See  Hatcham. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


703 


Hstton,  Richard  de,  prior  of  New 

Abbey,  Allxrbury,  547. 

,  William  de,  356. 

Hauberk,  Lawrence,  66,  92,  95. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  of  Clawson,  391. 

,   .....  knipht  of  the  shire  of 

Rutland,  289,  298,  316. 
hauberks,    removal     of,     from     the 

Tower,  584. 
Hauboys.     See  Hautboj's. 
Haueden',  John  de,  116. 
Hauedenne.     See  Harden. 
Haughley,    Hakenet    [co.    Suffolk], 

honour  of,  2. 
Haukewode,  John,  of  Gosfield,  573. 
Haukyn.  John,  of  Thaiston,  t.iilor, 

378. 
,  the  king's  serjeant  at 

amis,  72,  73,  113,  114. 

,  Sara,  349. 

Cf.  HanekJ^l. 

Haular,  Peter,  servant  of  the  abbot 

of  Xewsham.  500. 
Haulay,  Hauley,  John,  172. 

,  Robert,  knight,  337. 

,  . .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  sliire  of 

Lincoln,  289,  299. 

,  Wilham,  172,  196,  336,  337. 

,  ....  de.  the  younger,  71. 

Haulton.     See  Halton. 

Haimsard,  Robert,  580. 

Haut,  Henry,  165. 

,  Nicholas  son  of  Edmimd  de, 

knight,  son  of  Henry.   165. 
Hautbovs,  Hauboys.  Adam  de,  clerk, 

560. 

,  .....  parson  of  Sail,  547. 

Hautrjn'e,  John,  of  Derbyshire,  27, 

28. 
Haverberge,  Adam  de,  372. 
John  son  of  Adam  de,  372, 

373. 
Havoresham.     See  Haver  sham. 
Haveresham,  Xic^liolas  de.  274. 
Haverfordwest.  Hareford  [co.  Pem- 
broke], lordship  of,  520. 
Haverhill,  co.  Suffolk,  parson  of.    See 

Hilton.  John  de. 
Havering  at  to  Bower.  Haverjiig  atte 

Bouer.  Boiu-e.  co.  Essex,  605. 

,  deed  dated  at,  605. 

,  letters  close  dated  at,  151,190. 

,  manor    of.    bailiff    of.      See 

Albyn,  William. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  keepers  of,   142. 

,  repair  of  houses  at,  64. 

steward    of    court    of.      See 

Spice,  Clement. 
Bretons,     Bretonesland    in, 

604. 


Havemer,  Thomas,  of  Fowej',  52. 
Havorsham,  Haveresham,  co.  Buck- 
ingham, advowson  of,  406. 

,  manor  of,  406. 

Haveryng.     See  Havering. 
Haverpig,  Haverjaigg,  Geoffrey,  of 

London,  338. 
,  John,    the   king's   monoyor, 

306. 
,  Richard,         Richard        de, 

Icnight,  280,  597. 
, the    king's   moneyer, 

306. 
Haverj^iigton,  Haverynton,  John  de, 

heir  of,  360. 
,  Nicholas  de,  knight  of  the 

shire   of   Lancaster,    476. 
Hawe,  John.  351. 

,  William  del,  427. 

Haw^ell,  John  son  of  William,  528. 
Hawelton,  Jolm  de,  515,  521. 
Hawestede.     See  Hawstead. 
hawking,  592. 
hnwks,  43. 

,  service  of  keeping  and  mow- 
ing the  king's,  137. 
Hawksboui-ne,  Alkesburn    [in    Hor- 
sham], CO.  Sussex,  manor  of, 

407. 
Hawkwell,  Hakewell,  co.  Essex,  407. 
Hawley,    Halghle    [in    Sutton    atte 

Hone],   CO.    Kent,   manor  of, 

536. 
Hawstead,   Hawestede,   co.    Suffolk, 

471. 
Haxey,  Axay  [co.  Lincoln],  165. 
Hay,  John,  447,  448,  566. 

,   ....  de  la.  knight,  74. 

Haya   Park,   the   Hay   [by   Ivnares- 

borough,  CO.  York],  parker  of, 

64. 
Haydock,  Haydok  [in  Winwick],  co. 

Lancaster,  manor  of,  500. 
Haj'don,  co.  Xorthimiberland,  Eller- 

ington,    Ellerj-ngton  in,   256. 
Hayhouse,  William,  566. 
Haylake,      Hillake      [in      Cheriton 

Bishop],    CO.    Devon,    fee   in, 

523. 
Hayle,  Robert,  bocher,  96. 

Cf.  Heyle. 

Hayles.     See  Hailes. 

Haylesdon,  John,  323. 

Hayling.  Haylyng  priory,  co.  Hants, 

63. 

,  prior  of,  an  alien,  63. 

Hayme,  Hayn,  Stephen.  512,  593. 
citizen  of  Winchester 

in  parliament,  297,  316. 
Cf.  Heyn. 


(04 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Haytefeld.     See  Hatfeld. 

Hayton,  Lower,  Nether  Heyton  [in 

Stanton     Lacy],     co.     Salop, 

manor  of,  319. 
Hayton,  Jolin  do,  cliaplain,  309. 
Roger,   the   king's  surgeon, 

398. 

,  William  de,  598. 

Haywode,  Aywode,  Walter,  Walter 

de,    112,    196,   312,   325,   333, 

542,  543. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and  justice  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  CO.  Hants,  607. 
,  sheriff  of  Wiltsliire,  78, 

117. 
Hazlewood,    Hasolwodo,    Hasiiwode 

[co.  Derby],  deed  dated  at,  93. 

,  manor  of,  93. 

Heale,   South,   Southeales   [in  High 

Bickington],  co.  Devon,  343. 
Heathoncote,  Heymondcote  [in  Paul- 

erspury],    co.    Northampton, 

manor  of,  47. 
Heaton,  Heton  in  Bradfordale    [in 

Bradford,  co.  York],  97. 

,  Shaw,  Shagh  in,  97. 

Heccheshara.     See  Hatcham. 
Heckington,  Hekyngton,  co.  Lincoln, 

307. 

,  manor  of,  62. 

Hede,  Heed,  John,  206. 

,  .  .  . . ,  clerk,  560. 

Hedelay,  Adam  de,  parson  of  Bolton 

Percy,  84. 
Hedingham,    Castle,    Hengham,    co. 

Essex,  advowson  of  priory  of, 

493. 
,  Sible,  Hengham,  co.  Essex, 

492. 
Hedirset.     See  Hethersett. 
Hedon,  Gregory  parson  of,  147. 
Hedoun,  John,  610. 
Hedyngham.     See  Edenham. 
Hedyngham,  John  de,  merchant  of 

London,  245. 
Heebrigge.     See  Heybridge. 
Heed.     See  Hede. 
Heghtredbury.      See  Heytesbury. 
Heghward.     See  Hey  ward, 
heifer,  theft  of.  500. 
Heigham,    Heygham,    Richard    de, 

390. 

Thomas  de,  318. 

Heighlev,    Helegh    [in    Aiidlov.    co. 

Stafford].^  Audley  of.  267. 
Hekyngton.     See  Heckinsrton. 
Helegh.     See  Heigliley,  Highleigh. 
Helghweton,  Alice  wife  of  Bartholo- 
mew de,  534. 


Helghweton — cont. 

,  Bartholomew    de,     of     Old 

Sloaford,  534. 

Cf.  Halughton. 

Holland,     See  Hillhouso  Farm  T 
Holle,  Arthur  atto,  350. 

Cf.  Hille. 

Holleston.     See  Helston. 
HfUethorpo,  Helythorp  [uear  Rand, 

CO.  Lincoln],  337. 
Hellifield,     Holughfeld,     co.     York, 

manor  of,  61. 
Hellond.     See  Hillhouse  Farm  ? 
Helmsley,  Hamelak,  co.  York,  Roos 

of,  18,  209.  373,  394,  405. 
Helpeston.     See  Helpston. 
Helpeston,  Thomas  de,  verderer  of 

the  forest  of  Waltham,  11. 
Helpringham  [co.  Lincoln],  rector  of. 

See  Kelby,  Robert  de. 
Helpston,  Helpeston  [co.  Northamp- 
ton], 532. 

,  advowson  of,  532. 

,  Brodegate  in,  532. 

deed  dated  at,  532. 

,  Gernounesdyke  in,  532. 

,  manor  of,  440. 

Helston,    Helleston,    co.    Cornwall, 

burgess  of,  in  parliament,  298. 
Helsyngham,  Peter,  323. 
Heluglifeld.     See  Hellifield. 
Helwys,  Nicholas,  of  Selby,  413. 
Helygan,  Reynold,  560. 
Helythorp.     See  Hellethorpe. 
Hembury.     See  Henbury. 
Hemebrygge,      Richard       de,      the 

king's  Serjeant  at  arms,  399. 
Hemelyngton,  John  de,  240. 
Hemenliale,  Ralph  de,  knight,  275. 
Hemery,  John,  431. 

,  Thomas,  71,  72. 

Hemgrave,   Edmtmd  de,   knight  of 

the  shire  of  Suffolk,  476. 
Hemilhope.     See  Emblehope. 
Hemingbrough  [co.  York],  Clifl  and 

Turnham  Hall,  Turnumhalle 

in,  394.  395. 
Hemingby,    Hemmyngby,    co.    Lin- 
coln, manor  of,  151. 
Hemmyng,    Hemjmg,    Godfrey,    of 

Holme,  332. 
,  William,    parson    of    Castle 

Combe,  73,  446,  555. 
Hemmyngby.     See  Hemingby. 
Hemmyngton.     See  Hemyngton. 
Hempstead,  Hempstede,  co.  Essex, 

fee  in,  492. 
Hemyng.     See  Hemmyng. 
Hemyngburgh,    John   de,    monk   of 

Selby,  470,  471. 


OEXERAL    INDEX. 


705 


Herayngton,  Hommyiigton,  Hugh  do. 

5G8. 

,  .  .  . . ,  of  Modboui'no,  570, 

Henantl,  Hauand,  Tlionias,  cliaplain, 

146. 

,  William,  long's  sorjeant,  544. 

Henbiuy,    Hombiiry    in    Saltniorsli, 

Saltiuorssli,     co.     Gloucostor, 

197,  200. 
Hendon,    Hyiidon,    co.    Middlesex, 

chiu'ch  of,  152. 
,  farmer  of.     See  Buk- 

yngham.  John  do. 
Hendry,    Thomas,    of    IJicklobui'gh, 

378. 
Hengham.     See  Hedingham. 
Hengstwortho.    See  Henxtevvorth. 
Henle,  John  de,  clerk,  250. 
,  Walter,  burgess  of  Shaftes- 
bury in  parliament,  298. 

Cf.  Hanlo. 

Henley  in  Ai'den,  Henle  in  Ardernc 

[co.  Warwick],  manor  of,  108. 
upon  Thames,  Henle,  Henlec 

upon  Thames,  co.  Oxford,  11, 

336. 
,  letters  close   dated  at. 

307,  394. 

,  manor  of,  445. 

Henlow,  Henlowe,  co.  Bedford,  51, 

,  overcliarge  of  pastm-e  at,  51, 

,  Robert  vicar  of,  51, 

Henris,  Ellen,  356. 
Heru'ison,  James,  merchant  of  Aber- 
deen, 64. 
Henry  [II],   510. 
Henry  III,  charter  of,  170. 
Henry  II,  king  of  Castile,  the  bastard 

of  Spain,  30, 
,  .  .  . . ,       . .  .  . ,      the      Idng's 

enemy,  488. 
Henry,  John  son  of,  356. 

,  Nicholas  son  of,  356. 

,  Robert,  544. 

Henstead,  Heyncstede  himdred,  co. 

Norfolk,  constable  of,  490. 
Honton.    See  Hinton. 
Henton,  Nicholas  de,  108. 

Cf.  HjTiton. 

Henxtoworth,  Hengstworthe,  John, 
John  de,  338,  588. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  Icnight  of  tlio  shire  of 

Hertford,  101. 

, ,  the  elder,  427. 

,  Maud  wife  of  John  de,  427. 

Heppescotes,  William  de,  256. 
Herberd.  Richard.  581. 

Cf.  Harberd. 

Herbergo,  John,  of  Raylcigh,  276. 
Herbory,  Henry  do,  68,  536. 


Herde,  Jolm  lo,  349, 
Herdeborogh.     See  Harborough. 
Herdecote,  John  de,  81. 
Herdeman.     See  Herdman. 
Herdewyke,  John,  276,  589. 
Herdman,  Herdeman,  John,  parson 

of  Minsterworth,  401. 

Thomas,  356., 

William,  328. 

Herofeld.     See  Hareficld. 
Hereford  [co.  Hereford],  96. 

,  arrays  in,  42. 

,  bailiffs    and    constables    of, 

28,  96. 
bi.shop    of.      See   Charleton, 

Lewis  do;  Courtney,  William. 
,  bishopric    of,    voidance    of, 

142,   144. 
canons    of,    named,     318, 

319. 
citizens    of,    in    parliament, 

290,  298. 

,  diocese  of,  251. 

,  the  Garet  in,  554. 

Hereford,  coxmty  of,  104,  346,  433, 

560. 
,  coroners    of,    16,    162,    236, 

361. 
electors     and     arrayers     of 

archers  in,  42. 
,  escheator   in.     See  Aunsel, 

William  ;   Hortesle,  John  de  ; 

Luttoleye,   Philip   de  ;    Rees, 

John  ap. 
,  guardians  of  the  peace  and 

justices  of  oyer  and  terminer 

in,  243,  244,  293. 

,  justices  of  assize  in,  466. 

knights  of  the  shire  of,  100, 

289,  298,  316,  476,  611. 
,  slierif?  of,   16,  41,   162,  209, 

236,  243,  298,  361,  401,  476, 

506.      See     also      Devereux, 

William. 

,  subsidy  in,   90, 

Hereford,     earl     of.       See     Bohun, 

Humphrey  de. 
Hereford,  John,  401, 
Herehithe.     See  Erith. 
TIerewych.     See  Harwich. 
Herewjaiton.     See  Harvington. 
Hergast,  Payn,  189, 
Herkestedo,   William  do,   citizen  of 

London,  532, 
Herlaston.     See  Harleston. 
Herlawe.     See  Harlow. 
Herle,  Hugh,  chaplain.  467. 

,  John  do,  knight,  468. 

,  Rolx^rt  de,  108,  123. 

Cf.  Harleye. 

cv.  45 


706 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Herleboko.     See  Harloboko. 
Horloston.     See  Harlt'ston. 
Horlj-ngton,  John,  532. 
Hormar,  Richard,  of  Loudon,  86,  87. 
Horoun,  AVilHani,  kniglit  of  the  sliire 

of  Xortluunborland,  290. 

Cf.  Heryoun. 

Herpelee.     See  Harploy. 
Herpeswelle.     See  Harps  well. 
Hersewell.     See  Harswell. 
Hersliani,  [in  Bnmpstead  Hehon],  co. 

Essex,  fee  in,  492. 
Hort,  Jolm,  coroner  of  Essex,  8. 
,    the    king's   monoyer, 

306. 
,  Richard,  tlxe  king's  moneyer, 

306. 

Robert,  279. 

,  Thomas,  of  Mattersey,  239. 

,  William,  481. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  bakor,  of  Wood  Street, 

484. 
Hertclope.     See  Hartlip. 
Hertford,  covmty  of,  67,  90,  181,  348, 

458. 

,  coroners  of,  8,  494. 

,  escheators  in.     See  Bataille, 

Jolxn  ;      Cressyngham,     John 

de  ;  Keterich,  Roger  ;  Welde, 

John  atte. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  101, 

289,  299,  316,  476,  612. 
,  sheriff  of,  8,  177,   181,  194, 

195,  299,  404,  476,  494,  545. 

See      also       Bassyngbom-ne, 

Thomas  de. 

,  taxation  in,  90,  424. 

Herthey.    See  Harty. 
Hertilpole.    See  Hartlepool. 
Hertlyngton.     See  Hartlington. 
HertljTigton,  Henry  de,  7. 
,   ....    son    of     William    de, 

6,  7. 

,  William  son  of  Henry  de,  6, 

7,  39. 
Hertwell.     See  Hartwell. 
Hertwell,    John,   mayor   of   Oxford, 

331. 
Hertyndon.    See  Hertyngdon. 
Hertyng.    See  Harting. 
Hertyngdon,      Hert^iidon,      Adam, 

Adam  de,  516. 

, ,  clerk,  82. 

,....,    . .  . . ,   archdeacon   of 

London,  433. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  king's  clerk,  clerk  of 

works  at  Windsor  castle,  14. 
Hervy,  Richard,  355. 

Thomas,  clerk,  436,   437. 

^ ,  Wilham,  156,  157,  355. 


Horvvych.     »S'ee  Harwich. 

Horyord,  Richard,  224. 

Huryng,   Isabel,   wife  of  Reyinund, 

487. 
,  Nicliolas,    Nicholas    do,    es- 

choator  in  Kent,  414,  416. 
,  .........  in  Middlesex,  496, 

499. 
,    ....    in  Surrey,  .418, 

496. 

,      ,  ....  in  Sussex,  418. 

,  Reymund,  487. 

Heryoun,  Heryong,  Jolm,  the  king's 

monoyer,  306. 
,  Roger,  the  king's  moneyer, 

306. 

Cf.  Heroun. 

Heselarton.     See  Heslarton. 
Heselbergh.     See  Ellcsboiough. 
Hesliam,  David,  of  London,  426. 
Hesili.    See  Hessle. 
Heslarton,    Heselarton,    Simon    de, 

coroner  for  co.  York,  57. 

, ,  knight,  580. 

j      ,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

'  York,  100,  289,  476. 

Heslyngden,  Thomas,  558. 
Hessle,  Hesili,  co.  York,  manor  of, 

229,  234. 
Hesylden.     See  Haselden. 
Hethe.     See  Hythe. 
He  the,  Thomas  de,  37, 
Hethonham,  Walter,  parson  of  Puck- 

lechurch,  86. 
Hethensale,  Adam  de,  of  Yorkshire, 

481. 
Hethersett,  Hedirset    [co.  Norfolk], 

333,  334. 
Hethull,  Richard  de,  knight,  84. 
'     Heton.     See  Heaton,  Kirklieaton. 
Heton,  Alan  de,  296. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  laiight  of  the  shire  of 

j  Northumberland,     290,     299, 

316. 

,  Richard  de,  del,  154,  194. 

Cf.  Heyton. 

Hetton.     »See  Hutton  in  the  Forest. 
Het  Vrij.    See  Vrij. 
I     Hewyk,   Roger  de,  knight,   79. 
j     Hexetere,  Robert,   343. 

'      Cf.  Excestre. 

Hexham,  Hextildesham  [co.  North- 
umberland],    assessment      of 

liberty  of,  256. 
Hexham,  Thomas  de,  94. 

,  William  de,  97. 

Heyberare,  Heyberere,  William,  294, 

295. 

I      ,   burgess  of  Gloucester 

1  in  parliament,  290,  298. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


70: 


heybote,  315. 

Heybridge,  Hoebrigge,  Hobriggo,  co. 

Essox,  95,  346. 
Heycroft,  Willirtm,  581. 
Heydon,    Hoydon,    co.    Essox,    338, 

573. 

deeds  dated  at,  338,  573. 

Heyes   tenomcnt    in     Stubbing,    co. 

Essox,  349. 
Hcyford,  Gt;offroy,  olork,  426,  427. 
Hoygliain.     See  Hoigliain. 
Hoylo,  Ricliard,  coroner  of  Hortford- 

sliire,  8. 

Cf.  Hayle. 

Heymondcoto.     See  Heathencote. 

Hoyno,  John,  clork,  560. 

,  Roger,  burgess  of  Drogheda, 

246. 

Cf.  Haynio. 

Heynestede.      See  Honstead. 
Heytesbnry,       Hcghtredbiiry,       co. 

Wilts,  manor  of,  42. 
Hoyton.     See  Hayton. 
Heyton,  Roger  de,  svu'geon,  216. 

Cf.  Hoton. 

Heyward    Marsli,  Heglnvard  marsh 

in  Sliopland,  co.  Essex,   408. 
Heywodo.     See  High  wood. 
Hickling,    Hykolyng,    co.    Norfolk, 

deed  dated  at,  340. 

,  Netherhall    in,    340. 

Hide,    Hyde,    Isabel    (do    Nenport) 

mother  of  Jolin  de  la,  572. 

John  atte,  21.  174. 

,    of    Erringham,    405, 

407. 
,  Jolm  son  of  William  de  la,  of 

Wethersfield,  572. 
hides,   11,  38,  56,  130,  143,  154,  161, 

169,  170,  193,  210,  216,  241, 

263,  314,  317,  324,  434,  530. 
Hiengham.     See  Ingham. 
Higham  Gobion,  Higham  Cobyoun, 

Hj'gham   Gobioun,    co.    Bed- 
ford, deeds  dated  at,  446,  448. 

,  manor  of,  446,  448. 

High     Clcre,     Clero     Episcopi     [co. 

Hants],  151. 

,  deed  dated  at,  551. 

Highleigh,  Helegh  [in  Sidlosham,  co. 

Sussex],      prebend      of,      in 

chiu-ch  of  Chiolioster,  267. 
Highwood,  Heywodo  [in  EUingham], 

CO.  Hants,  237. 
Higon,  John,  583. 
Hikson,  Robert,  of  Aukborougli,  566, 
Hilborough.     Hnldeborgworth,     co. 

Norfolk,  318. 
Hildersham,  co.  Cambridge,  fee  in, 

493. 


Hillake.    See  Haylake. 

Hillam,  Hilluni,  HuUum  by  Abber- 
ford  [in  Monk  Frystono,  co. 
York],  tloeds  dated  at,  95. 

Hille,  Jolm  son  of  John  atte,  599. 

Cf.  Hollo,  Hullo. 

Hillhouso  Farm  [in  Pi'eston]  ?  Hel- 
land,  Hellond,  co.  Suffolk, 
272. 

Hilhnn.    See  Hillam. 

HilljTigton,  Roj-nold  de,  422. 

Hilton  [co.  Hvmtingdon],  376. 

Hilton,  Hulton,  Elizabeth  daughter 
of  Maud  do,  515,  521. 

,  John  do,  parson  of  Haver- 
hill, 551. 

,  Margaret  de,  357. 

,  Maud  de,  identity  of,   515, 

521. 

Hindlip,  Hyndolep  [co.  Worcester], 
manor  of,  108. 

Hinton,  Hjaieton  [in  Mudford],  co. 
Somerset,  manor  of,  407. 

Ampner,  Henton  [co.  Hants], 

manor  of,  98. 

,  Cherry,  Hynton  [co.  Cam- 
bridge],  440. 

Waldrist,  Henton  [co.  Berks], 

manor  of,  496,  505,  506,  508. 

Hirstlyngston.      See   Hurstingstone. 

Histon  [co.  Cambridge],  440. 

,  manor  of,  440. 

Hitchin,  co.  Hertford,  Maydencroft, 
Madcroft  in,  502. 

Hiwisch,  Hiwyssh.    See  Hy^vyssh. 

Hiwyssho.     See  Huish. 

hobblors,  485. 

Hobildod,  Adam,  457. 

Hobriggo.     See  Heybridge. 

Hoby,  Houby,  co.  Ijcicester,  533. 

.  .  .  r .  .,  manor  of,   533. 

Hockele,  William  de,  coroner  in  Lon- 
don, 403. 

Hockliam,  Hokliam,  Hokkam,  co. 
Norfolk,  Cans  of.     See  Caus. 

,  manor  of,  120. 

Hockwold,  Hoghe,  co.  Norfolk, 
manor  of,  560. 

Hoddel,  Alice,  593. 

,  ....  daiighter   of    Thomas, 

of  Moulsoe,  592,  593. 

,  James  nephew  of  Alice,  593. 

Hode,  Geoffrey,  444. 

,  John,  248. 

Hogeston.     See  Hoxton. 

Hogges.    See  Hougue. 

Hoggoshawe,  Thomas,  knight,  452, 
453. 

Hoggeston.     See  Hogston,  Hoxton. 

Hoghe.    See  Hockwold. 


708 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Hoghton.     See  Houghton. 

Hoglnvj'k,  Henry  de,  of  Farrington, 
456. 

Hogston,  Hoggoston  [co.  Bucking- 
liam],  75. 

Hoke,  la,     See  Hook. 

Hoke,  John  le,  349. 

Thomas,  479. 

Hokolton,  Walter  do,  421. 

Hokonalo.     See  Hucknall. 

HokJiani,  Hokkam.     See  Hockham. 

Hokyton.     See  Oakington. 

Holand.    See  Holland. 

Holbech,  Hugh,  191. 

,  . .  .  . ,    citizen    of    London, 

143,  210. 

Holborn.    See  London,  places  named, 

Holborn,  Holbourne,  Nicholas  de, 
323. 

,  citizen  of  London,  344. 

,  Richard,  283. 

Holcombe  Rogiis,  Holecombe  Rogus 
[co.  Devon],  Chaldewillelond, 
Brook  and  the  Haym  in,  603. 

Holcote.     See  Holcutt. 

Holcroft,  John  do,  knight  of  the 
sliire  of  Lancaster,    611. 

Holcutt,  Holcote,  co.  Bedford,  par- 
son of.    See  Coupere,  Thomas. 

Holderness,  co.  York,  430. 

Holdhay.    See  Oldhay. 

Holdingham,  Haldyngham  [in  Slea- 
ford,  CO.  Lincoln],  534. 

Holdych,  Robert  de,  kniglit  of  the 
shire  of  Norfolk,    100. 

Hole  [near  Grimsby  ?  co.  Lincoln], 
567,  571. 

,  North,  Northhole  [in  George- 
ham],  CO.  Devon,  fee  in,  339. 

,  South,  Hole,   Southhole  [in 

Georgeham],  co.  Devon,  fee 
in,  339,  522. 

Hole,  Gregory  atte,  bm*gess  of  East 
Grinstead  in  parliament,  297. 

Holecombe.     See  Holcombe. 

Holeman,  Thomas,  343. 

Holfiet,  Thomas  de,  566. 

Holgote,  Philip,  75,  76,  319,  346,  554. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  of  Herefordshire,  433. 

Holiere,  Richard,  349. 

Holkham,  John  de,  598. 

HoDand,  Holand,  390,  467. 

,  protector  of.     See  Albert. 

,  ships  of,  412. 

North,  Northoland,  467. 

,  . . . . ,  merchant  of,  467. 

Holland,  Holand,  division  of  Lin- 
colnshire, arrays  in,  125. 

,  assessment  of,  248,  249. 

,  guardians  of  the  peace  in,  37. 


Holland,  Holand,  Hugh  do,  citizen 
of   Norwicli,    222. 

Joan     (princess    of    Wales) 

wife  of  Tlioma.s  do,  132,  408. 

,  John  de,  79,  103,  568,  582. 

,   ....,   of    Lincolnshire,   435. 

,  .....  of  London,  442,  443. 

,  ....  son  of  Robert  do,  500. 

,  Maud  wife  of  Robert  de,  140, 

141. 

Robert,  Robert  de,  knight, 

309,  500,  547. 

,  ....  son  of  Robert  de,  140, 

141. 
,      Thomas  de,  408. 

HoUington,     co.     Sussex,     Wilting, 
Wyltynge  in,  593. 
'     Holme,  Holm,  co.  Norfolk,  332. 

,  North,  Northolme  [in  Great 

Edstone],  co.  York,  528. 

Holme,  Hulme,  John  de,  clerk,  513. 

,  Ralph  de,  knight,  332. 

,  Robert,    111. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  coroner  of  Lincoln- 
shire, 9. 

Roger   de,  burgess  of   Not- 

,  tingham  in  parlia.ment,  290, 

'  298. 

Holmslade.     See  Hamslade. 

Hoisted,  Halghstede  [in  Boxley],  co. 
'  Kent,  46. 

Holt  hundred,  co.  Norfolk,  constable 
I  of,  490. 

Holt,  Geoffrey  del,  154,  194. 

,  Hugh  del,  154,  194. 

,  John,    John    de,    283,    430, 

543,  588,  610. 

,  of  Northamptonshire, 

165. 

Holveston,  Hulueston,  John  de, 
knight,  569. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Suffolk,  612. 

Hoi  well,  CO.  Leicester,  2. 

Holy  Cross,  co.  Worcester,  Wad- 
borough,  Wadbergh  in,  108, 
453,  454. 

Holygreve,  William,  356. 

Holy  Island,  Eland,  co.  Northumber- 
land, collectors  of  customs  in 
port  of,  56. 

Holy  Land,  pilgrimage  to,  27. 

Holynbrok,  William,  of  Romney, 
baron  of  the  Cinque  Ports, 
299. 

Honesdon.     See  Hunsdon. 

honey,  152,  245. 

Honingham,  Honyngham  [co.  Nor- 
folk], 597. 

,  deed  dated  at,  598. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


709 


Hony,  Tliomas,  660. 

Honybriggo,  Honybrygge,  John,  7<>. 

Honyngham.     See  Honinglmm. 

Hoo,  John,  323. 

,  Thomas  atte,  kixight  of  tho 

sliiro  of  Bedford,  612. 

, do,  knight,  604. 

Wilham  del,  knigJit,  547. 

Hoo  St.  Mary,  Scinto  Mario  Parj'ssli 

Hahvesto  iix  Hoo  [co.  Kent], 

97. 
Hook,  la  Hoke  [co.  Dorset],  99. 

,  Houk  [co.  York],  577. 

Hopcre,  Joliu,  343. 

Hoperton,  Jolux  do,  of  York,  skinner, 

491. 
Hopewas,  Hugh,  clerk,  309. 
Hopton,  William  de,  321. 

of  Salop,   191,  479. 

Hord,  Thomas,  of  Newton,  507. 
Hordern  wood,  co.  York,  102. 
Hore,  Steplieu,  350. 

,  William  le,  590. 

Horewast,  William,  72. 

Horewode,  Horwode,  FiUk,  Fulk  de, 

81,  323. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  mayor  of  the  staple  oi 

Westminster,    218. 

,  John,  343. 

,  ....  de,  citizen  of  London, 

109. 
Horewj-k,  \\'illiam  de,  clerk,  267. 
Horkesley,    Horkesleye,    Great    [co. 

Essex],   parson  of.     See  Sal- 
cote,  Walter  de. 
Horle,  Richard  de,  468. 
Hormead,  Great,  Great  Hormed,  co. 

Hertford,  manor  of,  272,  273. 
Horn.    See  Home. 
Hornby  [in  Moiling,  co.  Lanc£tster], 

Neville  of,  574. 
Hornbj-,    Horneby,    Cicely    wife    of 

Gilbert  de,  571. 

,  Gilbert  de,  571. 

William   de,    parson   of   St. 

Michael  on  Wyre,   54. 

Cf.  Hornsby. 

Horncastle,  Homcastre,  co.  Lincoln, 

379. 
Horndon,  co.  Essex,  94,  263. 
Home,    Horn,    Edmund,    citizen    of 

Canterbm-y     in     parUament, 

297,  316. 

,  John,  citizen  of  London,  467. 

,  Richard,  349. 

,  William,  WilHam  de,  593. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Kent,  545. 

Cf.  Hurne. 

Horneby.    See  Hornby. 
Hornesheved,   John,   chaplain,   466, 


Horningsea,  Hornjmggesseye  [co. 
Cambridge],  456. 

horns,  456. 

Hornsby,  William  de,  clerk,  97. 

Cf.  Hornby. 

Hornsey,  co.  Middlesex,  Harringay, 
HarjTigesoyo  ,in,  536. 

Hornwig',  Henry,   357. 

Hornyng,  William,  cf  Essex,  386. 

Hornynggessoye.    See  Horningsea. 

Horold,  John,  327,  334,  494. 

Horscroft,  William,  of  London,  pel- 
tor,  90. 

Horseheath,  Horsothe,  co.  Cam- 
bridge, fee  in,  493. 

Horseleye.     See  Horsleye. 

horses,  3,  13,  238,  258,  320,  380,  423, 
456,  562. 

,  hackney,  hakeneye,  330,  389, 

433. 

,  .  .  .  . ,    for    the    king's    post 

from  Calais,  505. 

,  plough,  137. 

,  the  king's  destriers,  215. 

Horsete,  Nicholas,  570. 

Horsethe.     Sec  Horseheath. 

Horsewell,  Horswill  [in  South  Mil- 
ton], CO.  Devon,  82,  83. 

Hovsford,  CO.  Norfolk,  345. 

Horsham,  co.  Sussex,  burgess  of,  in 
parliament,  297. 

,  HawksbomTie,  Alkesbiirn  in, 

407. 

Horsley,  Horsleye  [co.  Derby],  239. 

Horsleye,  Horseleye,  Nicholas  son  of 
John  de,  239. 

,  Richard  de,   256. 

,   .  .  .  . ,    sheriff   of   Nox'thum- 

berland,  155,  156,  164. 

Horstane,  William,  323. 

Hoi'swill.     See  Horsewell. 

Hortesle,  John  de,  coroner  of  co. 
Hereford,  361. 

,  of  Letton,  escheator  in 

Gloucestershire,  358,  360,  376, 
396. 

,  . .  . . ,  ....  in  Here- 
fordshire, 376,  487. 

,....,     .  .  .  . ,     ....     in    the 

marches  of  Wales,  376. 

,  . .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Worces- 
tershire, 410. 

Horton  [in  Ivinghoe,  co.  Bucking- 
ham], 447,  448. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  deeds  dated  at,  448. 

,  CO.  Gloucester,  53. 

,  CO.  Northampton,   19. 

,  ....,   ixxanor  of,    19. 

I^rby,    by    Derteford     [co. 

Kent],  advowson  of,  574. 


710 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Horton  Kirby — cont. 

chiirch  of,  574. 

,  manor  of,  574. 

Horton,  Nirliolas  do,  olork,  505. 
Horwodo.    See  Horovvodo. 
Horwood,      Horwodo,      Great      [co. 

Buckingham],  75. 
,    Littlo     [co.     Buckingham], 

75. 
hostages,   prohibition  of  insults  to, 

91. 
Hosteler,  Hostiler,  Hostillor,  Thomas, 

190,  294. 

, of  Barkway,  444. 

Hothum,  Hothom,  John  de,  bishop 

of  Ely,  503. 

, kniglit,  580. 

Hotoft,   Hotot,  Richard,  coroner  of 

CO.   Leicester,   512,   525,   526. 

,  Robert,  knight,  309. 

Hoton,   Joan   wife   of    Thomas    de, 

592. 

John,  592. 

,  Thomas  de,  592. 

,  ....  son  of  Thomas  de,  592, 

,  WilHam  do,  580. 

Hotot.  See  Hotoft. 
Houby.  See  Hoby. 
Houden,  Thomas,  of  London,  tailor, 

585. 
Houel.     See  Howell. 
Hougli-on-the-Hill      [co.      Lincoln], 

Brandon  in,  236. 
Houghton,     Hoglaton,     Great,     co. 

Northamptoii,  48. 
.......   .  .  .  .,  manor  of,  48. 

-le-Spring,  Hoghton  [co.  Dur- 
ham], chiu'cli  of,  250. 
Houghton,  Hoghton,   Adam,  Adam 

de,  233,  280. 
,  .  .  .  .,  bishop  of  St.  Da\'id's, 

158,  501. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

in  Lancasliire,  307. 

,  Stephen  de,  584. 

,  Wilham,    William    do.    330, 

333,  542.  543. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Hants,  537. 

Hougue,  La,  Hogges  in  Normandy 

[France,   dep.   Manche],   260. 
Honk.     See  Hook. 
Houkesbeare.     See  Huxbear, 
Houlot,  Emma  wife  of  Thomas,  176. 
,  Robert    son    of    Robert    of 

Forncett,    378. 

,  Thomas,  176,  575. 

Hound,  William,  merchant,  382. 

Hourt,  John,  350. 

housebote,   315. 

Houthe,  Peter,  chaplain,  396, 


Hove,  HouvG  [co.  Sussex],  bailiffs  of. 
325. 

,  ....  of  bishop  of  Chichester 

at,  325. 

Hovingliam,  co.  York,  Wath  in,  528, 

Howard,  Robert,  knight,  564,  565, 
569. 

Howdon,  CO.  York,  Yokefleet,  Yuc- 
flet  in,  247. 

Howe,  CO.  Norfolk,  manor  of,  564. 

Howell,  Houol,  John,  609. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  bailiff  of  Newcastle- 
upon-Tyne,  111, 

, crier  in  the  Common 

Bench,  412. 

Howessono,  Robert,  85. 

HoxluiUo,  Heiuy,  343. 

Hoxton,  Hogeston,  Hoggoston,  co. 
Middlesex,  450,  451. 

manor  of,  318,  450. 

,  mill  at,  450. 

Hoydon.    See  Heydon. 

Hubel,  John,  of  Bridgwater,  Fleming, 
345. 

Huccote.     See  Hiilcot. 

Hucknall  Torkard,  Hokenale  Tor- 
kard  [co.  Nottingham],  manor 
of,'  95. 

Huet.    See  Huwet, 

Hug',  John,  610. 

Hugh.     See  Fitz  Hugh, 

Huish,  Hiwysshe,  Huwyssh,  Hy- 
wyssh,  CO.  Devon,  34. 

,  fee  in,  523. 

?     Gritliiwissch,    co.  Devon, 

343. 

Episcopi,  Hiwyssh  Episcopi 

[co.  Somerset],  573. 

North,  CO.  Devon,  Butter- 
ford,  Boterford  in,  393. 

Hukstepe,  John  de,  593. 

Hulbroke,  Simon,  469. 

Hulcot,  Huccote,  Hukkote  [co.  Buck- 
ingham], 308. 

,  advowson  of,  453. 

,  manor  of,  453. 

Huldeborgworth.     See  Hilborough. 

Hull.     See  Kingston  upon  Hull. 

Hulle,  Agnes  wife  of  John  atte,  451. 

,  Henry  atte,  335. 

,  John  atte,  of  Wooburn,  451. 

, del,  355. 

,  Robert,  83. 

William,    WilHam   de,    356, 

440,   441,   597. 

,  .  .  i  . ,  of  Westminster,  452. 

Cf.  Hille. 

Hullessone,  Richard,  355. 

Hxilleston,  John  de,  knight,  566. 

Hullum  by  Aberford.    See  HUlam, 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


11 


Hulme.    See  Holme. 
Hulton.     See  Hilton. 
Hulueston.     See  Holveston. 
Huniber,  Huniljro,  river  [cos.  York 

and  Lincoln],  forries  ovor,  241, 

242. 
justices  to  observe  and  keei). 

163. 
Huniberston,  Hiimberstane  [co.  Lin- 
coln], 599. 
Huniberston,  William  de,  the  elder, 

clerk,  599. 
Hiunbleyard,  Hiunylyerde,  hundred, 

CO.  Norfolk,  constable  of,  490. 
Humbre.     See  Hurnber. 
Humer,  Andrew,  of  Chilton,  348. 
Huinylyerde.     See  Humbleyard. 
Hundegate,      Hundgate,      William, 

William  de,  541. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Yorkshire,  545. 

Hundelby.     See  HimtUeby. 
Hunden,  Geoffrey  de,  600,  601,  602. 

Cf.  Hiuisden. 

Hundgate.     See  Himdegate. 
Hundleby,    Himdelby,    co.    Lincoln, 

379. 
Hvmgerford,   Himgi-eford,   Elizabeth 

wife  of  Walter  de,  199. 
,  Thomas  de,  42,  78,  100,  280. 

281,335,601. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  son  of  Walter  de,  197. 

198. 

,  Walter  de,  197,  198,  199. 

Hmigerton  [co.  Leicester],  Baggrave, 

Babbegrave  in,  274. 
Hvmgi-eford.     See  Hungerford. 
Hunsden,  Geoffi-ey  de,  535. 

Cf.  Hunden. 

Hunsdon,   Honesdon,  co.   Hertford, 

102. 
Himston,    Hunteston,    co.    Suffolk, 

576,  582. 
Hunston,  Thomas  de,  76. 
Hunte,  Jolm,  83,  351,  355. 

,  Roger,  clerk,  559. 

,  William,  351. 

Hvmter,  Robert,  480. 
Huntercombe,  Dame  de,  492.     • 
Hunteston.     See  Hvmston. 
Huntingdon,  Himtj-ndon,  Himtyng- 

don  [co.  Huntingdon],  baiUffs 

of,  115,  483. 
,  burgess    of,    in    parliament. 

299. 
,  chantry  in  church  of  Austin 

friars  at,  461,  462. 

,  deed  dated  at,  462. 

,  mayor  of,  115. 

,  repair  of  bridge  of,    140. 

See  Huntingtoii. 


Huntingdon,  Huntyngdon,  countess 
of.  See  Hastyngos,  Juliana 
de. 

carl  of.  See  Clynton,  Wil- 
liam de. 

honour  of,  19,  151,  380,  403. 

Huntingdon,  county  of,  282,  348. 

commons  of,   140. 

coroners  of,  381. 

,  oscheators  in.     See  Brough- 

ton,  John ;  Olneye,  John ; 
Sewalo,  Thomas ;  Styueclo, 
Nicholas. 

,  justices  in  eyro,  of  assize  in, 

140,  466. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  101, 

289,  299,  316,  476,  612. 

,  sheriff  of,  116,  177,  181,  194, 

299,  381,  404,  476. 

Huntington,  Himtingdon,  co.  Staf- 
ford, 137. 

Himtyndon.      See  Huntingdon. 

Himtynfeld.     See  Huntyngfeld. 

Hiintpigdon.     See  Huntingdon. 

Huntyngdon,  Robert  de,  575. 

,  William,  tailor,  429. 

HimtjTigfeld,  Huntynfeld,  Isabel, 
wife  of  Thomas  de,  569. 

,  William  de,  knight,   379. 

Hurley,  Hiu'le  [co.  Berks],  prior  of. 
See  Bromlo,  William. 

Hurne,  W^illiam  atte,  79. 

Cf.  Hoi'ne. 

Hiu-st,  Richard  de,  10. 

,  William,  coroner  of  Sussex, 

511. 

Hurstboiu-ne,  Hussebourne  [co. 
Hants],  551. 

Hui'stingstone,  Hirstljmgston  hun- 
dred, CO.  Himtingdon,  140. 

Hurtland,  RicJiard,  coroner  of 
Gloucestershire,    162. 

Hviscarl,     Henry     bastard     son     of 
Thomas  son  of  Thomas,  341. 
Thomas,  555,  559,  561. 
.  .  .  . ,  knight,  465. 

Huse,  Husee,  Henry,  knight,  543, 

...    son   of     Mark  son   of 
Hemy,  437,  443,  542,  543. 
Hugh  de,  knight,  95. 
Isabel  wife  of  John,  165. 
.  .  .  . ,   assignment  of  dower 
to,  309-312. 
Jolm,  116,  179.  ' 
....  brother  of  Roger,  179, 
181. 

...  son  of  John,  517,  543, 
576.  581,  582,  593. 
Nicholas,  366,  367. 
William,  544. 


712 


GENEKAL    INDEX. 


Husseboumo.     See  Hurstbouruo. 

HustJ^lg',  John  de,  coroner  of  Corn- 
wall, 14. 

Huthum's  tenement  in  Woodham 
Ferrers,  co.  Essex,  350. 

Hutton  in  the  Forest  [co.  Curnber- 
liMidl  ?  Hotton,  manor  of,  502. 

HuwajTi,  Walter,  323. 

Huwet,  Huet,  Walter,  keeper  of 
Jei'sey,  Guernsey,  Alderney 
and  Sark,  141. 

, ,   knight,    80,    83,    554, 

555,  572. 

Huwyssh.     See  Huish,  Hywyssh. 

Huxbear,  Houkesbeare  [in  Chud- 
leigh],  CO.  Devon,  fee  in,  393. 

Hycok,  John,  421. 

Hyde.     See  Hide. 

Hydjmgham,  John,  citizen  of  Lon- 
don, 277. 

Hygham.     <See  Higham. 

Hykelot,  William,  350. 

Hykolyng.    See  Hickling. 

Hyldesleye,  William  do,  coroner  of 
Berks,  526. 

Hyndelop.     See  Hindlip. 

Hyndolep,  Robert  do,  108. 

Hyndeston,  Hemy,  82. 

Hyndon.     See  Hendon. 

Hyne,  John,  the  king's  moneyer,  306. 

Hyneton,  Hynton.     See  Hinton. 

Hynton,  Ralph  de,  coroner  of  co. 
Cambridge,  221,  490. 

Cf.  Henton. 

Hythe,  Hethe,  co.  Kent,  299. 

.. ,  bailiffs  of,  188,  201. 

Hjnvorth,  Robert  de,  parson  of 
Eydon,  208. 

Hywyssh.     See  Huish. 

Hywyssh,  Hiwisch,  Hiwyssh,  Hu- 
wyssh, Alice  wife  of  Richard, 
35. 

,  Richard,  Richard  de,  34,  35. 

W^illiam,  523,  560. 

,  ....  son  of  Richard,  Richard 

de,  34,  35. 


I 


Ichenton.     See  Itchington. 
Ickleton,  Eclynton  [co.  Cambridge], 

prioress  of,  274. 
Idelegh,  John,  John  de,  71,  72,  81, 

179,  279. 
,  Richard,  Richard  de,  71,  72, 

279. 


Idelegh — cont. 

Cf.  Yedelee. 

Iden,  Iderme,  co.  Sussex,  manor  of, 

406. 

, ,  baihff.s  of,  408. 

Ideshale.     ^'ee  Sliifnal. 

idiocy  and  lunacy,  165,  526,  527. 

Idle,  Ydle  [co.  York],  constable  of, 

519. 
Idstone,     Edwyneston,     co.     Berks, 

manor  of,  496. 
Iffley,  Yiftele  [co.  Oxford],  75. 
Ightliam,  CO.  Kent,  588,  610. 
Ikenild  Way,  Ekeneldewey  in  Barton 

Stacy,  CO.  Hants,  311. 
Ikworth,  Thomas  de,  575. 
Ilchester,  ivelcestre  [co.  Somerset], 

334. 
,  keeper     of     gaol     in.       See 

Porter,  Ralpli. 
Ilemore  [in  Isle  Brewers,  co.  Somer- 
set], 537. 
Ilfracombe,  Ilfricombe  [co.  Devon], 

parson     of.       See     Polgruyn, 

William. 
Ilkeston,  co.  Derby,  manor  of,  252. 
Ilkeston,  John  de,  of  Horsley,  239. 
Ilkctshall,  Ilkoteleshale,  co.  Suffolk, 

565. 

,  manor  of,  565. 

,  Fittones  in,  569. 

,  Thoryton  in,  569. 

,  Wellington's,  Wellyngtones 

in,  569. 
Illerd,  John,  clerk,  474. 
Illington,  Elyngton,  co.  Norfolk,  564. 
Ilmington,  Ilmyndon  [co.  Warwick], 

manor  of,  108. 
Ilney,  Richard  de,  knight,  340. 
listen    on    the    Hill,    Ilveston,    co. 

Leicester,  fee  in,  274. 
Ilsyngton.     See  Islington. 
Ilveston.    See  listen. 
Imworth,  Y'mworth,  Hugh,  Hugh  de, 

695,  605. 
,  Richard   de,   keeper  of  the 

marshalsea  prison,   244,  275. 
,  .  .  . . ,  the  king's  Serjeant  at 

arms,  595. 
Ince    Blundell,    Ines    Blxmdell    [in 

Sefton,  CO.  Lancaster],  230. 
Inchiquin,     Inchecoigne     [in     Clon- 

priest,     CO.     Cork],     Ireland, 

manor  of,  72,  113. 
indulgence,  papal,  240. 
Ines  Blundell.     See  Ince  Blundell. 
infangethef,  164. 
Ingayne,   John,   of   Cambridgeshire, 

640. 
Cf.  Dengayne. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


7J3 


Inge,  Joan  (Doro)  daughter  of  Jolin 

son  of  John,  12U,  133. 
,    Jolm    son    of    Jolm,    129, 

133. 

WiUiani,  593. 

Ingolby,  Ingclbi,  Ingloby,  Katherine 

wife  of  TJionias  do,  588. 
,  TJiomas,  Thomas  de,  17,  59, 

672. 
,  justice  to  dchvcr  War- 
wick gaol,  221. 
,....,     ....     to    liold    pleas 

before    the    king,    202,    224, 

239,  254,  258,  378,  385,  388, 

405,  413,  491,  500. 

,  laiight,  532,  588. 

Ingehvodc.     See  Ii\glewood. 
Ligham,  Hiengham,  Jolm,  458. 
,  Oliver  son  of  John  son  of 

Robert  de,  321. 
,  William  do,  parson  of  Earl's 

Stonham,  318,  535. 
Ingleby.    See  Ingelby. 
Inglewood,     Ingelwode     forest,     co. 

Cumberland,  6,  28,  134. 
,  election  of  verderers  in,   9, 

363,  414,  514. 
,  forester  of.     See  Stapulton, 

WiUiani  de. 

,  keeper  of,  134,  371. 

,  regards  of,   191,  330. 

Ingleys.     See  English. 

Ingoldsby,  Ingoldesby,  co.  Lincoln, 

92. 
,  parson  of.     See  Woxbrugge, 

Richard  de. 
Ingi-ith,  Jolm,  332. 
Inkelesmore.     See  Laklcs  Moor. 
Inkberrow,  Little,  Little  Intebergh, 

CO.  Worcester,  manor  of,  108, 

453,  454,  455. 
Likles      Moor,       Inkelesmore      [by 

Goolo],  CO.  York.  528. 
Inneworth.    See  Liworth. 
Innocent,  Jolm,  461. 
Inskysty.     See  Askeaton. 
Insula,    Isle,    Lisle,    Grerard    son    of 

Warin  de,  del,  556,  557. 

,  Jolm,  John  de,  81. 

, ,  knight,  110,  214. 

,  . .  . . ,    lord    of    Harewood, 

45,  235. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Gatcombe,  48. 

,  Margaret  Avife  of  Warin  de, 

del,  557,  580. 

,  Maud  wife  of  Jolm  de,  214. 

Robert  de,  of  Ridgmont,  505. 

,  Thomas  de,  bishop  of  Ely, 

abode  and  death  of,  at  Rome, 

3. 


Instda — cont. 

,  Warin  de,  del,  555-558,  580, 

581. 

,  .....  knight,  457. 

,  William  son  of  Walter  del, 

372. 
Intebergh.     See  Inkberrow. 
Intewodo.     See  Intwood. 
lutruthyn,  Arnald  van,  416. 
Intwood,    Intewodo    [co.    Norfolk], 

rector  of.  See  Wyset,  William, 
luworth,  Inneworth,  co.  Essex,  94. 
Ipeswyth,   William  de,   of   London, 

478. 
Ippegrave,  John,  283. 

,  William,  427. 

Ipre.     See  Ypres. 

I  pre,  Ipres,  John  de,  25. 

,  . .  .  .,  knight,  97. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Lancaster,  100,  290,  299,  316. 
,  Richard     de,      burgess     of 

Bruges,  225. 
IpsAvich,    Gippewic,    Gyppewic    [co. 

Suffolk],  240,  494. 
,  baiHffs    of,    115,    201,    264, 

329,  483,  588. 
,  bm*gess    of,    in    parliament, 

299. 
,  collectors  of  petty  custom  in, 

382,  409. 

,  Holy  Trinity,  prior  of,  240. 

,  mavor  of,  115. 

,  port  of,  121,  382. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  keepers  of  passage  in, 

449. 
St.  Peter's  priory,  prior  of, 

240. 
Irchester,  co.  Northampton,  Chester, 

Chestre  in,  76,  77. 
Ireby,  John  de,  coroner  of  Cumber- 
land, 9. 
Ireland.  5,  56,  72,  113,  161,  164,  178, 

202,  213,  328,  399.  418,  423, 

469,  487,  520,  530,  536,  609. 

,  archers  sent  to,  11. 

,  chancellor  of,  5,  6,  131,  148, 

231,  395,  411,  418.     See  also 

Botheby,  John  de. 
chancery      of,      rolls      and 

memoranda  of,  231,  380,  411. 

,  clergy  of,  131,  401. 

,  customs  in,  11,  380. 

,  defence  of,   5,   6,    131,    149, 

230,  495,  529. 
,  e«cheators  in,  254.     See  also 

Bekenesfeld,     Nicholas     de ; 

Hakenshawe,  Roger  de. 
,  . .  . . ,  accounts  of,  rendered 

at  Dublin,  512,  513. 


14 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Ireland — cont. 

,  exactions    and    oppressions 

in,  257,  259,  265,  38U,  529. 
,  exchequer  of,  exchequer  of 

Dublin,    164,    231,    254,    401, 

512,  513. 

,   .  .  .  .,  siuiunons  of,  380,  401. 

, treasurer  and  barons 

of,   231,   265,    365,   380,   381, 

401,  411,  495,  512,  513. 
,   .........  and  chamberlains 

of,  365,  392,  399. 
,  governor   and  guardian   of. 

See  Wyndesoro,   William  de. 
,  justices     of     tlie     Conunon 

Bench  in,  249. 
,  ....  to  hold  pleas  following 

justiciary  of,  231,  411. 
,   .  .  .  . ,    ....    following    lieu- 
tenant of,  231,  250. 
,  justiciary  of,  5,  6,  380,  401, 

418.     See  also  Aston,  Robert 

de  ;    Rokeby,  Thomas  de. 
,  law  and  custom  of,  254,  327, 

365. 
,  lieutenant     of,     refusal     of 

office  of,  420. 

.  .,  men  of,  122,  368. 

,  parliament  of,  380,  529. 

,  ports  of,  11. 

,  i^relates  and  ecclesiastics  of, 

257. 
rolls  and  memoranda  of  pleas 

in,  231,  411. 
.......  scutage  in,  380,  381. 

,  seal  used  in,  great  seal  of, 

231,  246,  265,  365,  395,  411. 

,  taxation  of,  256,  495,  529, 

,  the  king's  courts  in,  259. 

, enemies  of,  73,  380,  381. 

,   ....   lieutenant     in.         See 

Lionel     duke     of     Clarence ; 

Wyndesore,  William  de. 

,  treasurer  of ,  5,  6,  131,  148. 

,  treasury  of,  399. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  rolls  and  memoranda 

of,  231,  411. 

,  war  in,  24,  393,  401,  529. 

,  wool  etc.  of,  38,  169. 

Irlam,  John  de,  of  Norwich,  605. 
Mond,  Irlande,  Joan  de,  106. 
,  Richard  de,  the  king's  sur- 
geon, 153. 

,  Thomas,  323. 

Irmonger,  Yernmonger,  Yremongere, 

Adam,  472. 

,  John,  346. 

,  Richard,  534. 

iron,  136,  526. 

,  qviintals  of,  385. 


t     Irynghame.     See  Erringham. 

Isabel,     queen,     servant     of.       See 

Galej's,  \Villiam. 
Isabel,  the  king's  daughter,  wife  of 
,  Ingelram    do    Coucy,    earl    of 

'  Bedford,  75,  234. 

Isac,  Isabel  wife  of  John,  343. 

Jolai,  343. 

Isbury,  John,  lord  of  Watford,  312. 

Iseldo,  John,  442. 

Isenbrugge.     See  Isombridge. 

Isham  [co.  Xorthanipton],  589,  610. 

Isham,  Robert  de,  87. 

Isle.    See  Lisula. 

Isle  Brewers,  co.  Somerset,  Ilemore 

in,  537. 
Lile  of  Wight,     See  Wight. 
Isleworth,  Istelworth  [co.  Middlesex], 

manor  of,  reeve  of,  64. 
,  .  .  .  . ,       steward      of.      See 

Weche,  John. 

,  water-mill  of,  64. 

,  Babeworthpounde  in,  64. 

Islington,  Ilsyngton  [in  Tilney],  co. 

Norfolk,  advowson  of,  560. 

!      ,  manor  of,  560. 

Isombridge,    Isenbrugge    [in    Ercall 

Magna],  co.  Salop,  75,  76,  143. 
Istelworth.     See  Isleworth. 
Itcliington,    Ichenton     [in    Tyther- 

ington],  CO.  Gloucester,  53. 
Ivelcestre.     See  Ilchester. 
Ivenet,  Richard  de,  clerk,  422. 
Iver,  Evere,  Ej^er  [co.  Buckingham], 

428,  571. 
Ivethorne,  John,  331. 
Ivinghoe,    IvjTiglioo    [co.    Bucking- 
ham], 82. 

,  Horton  in,  447,  448. 

Iwade,    CO.    Kent,    Chitney    marsh, 

Chattenemersch  in,  279. 
Iwerne  [co.  Dorset],  192. 
Courtney,  co.  Dorset,  Rans- 

ton,  Randolveston  in,  285. 
Iweshote,  Alexander  de,  176. 
Iwet,  Oliver,  351. 


J 


Jackman  House,  Jakemanessough  in 

Newcastle-upon-Tyne         [co. 

Northmnberland],  343. 
Jacobyn,      James,      merchant      of 

Florence,  216. 
,....,....     of     Lombardy, 

129. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


716 


Jakomannessotigh.  See  Jackman 
House. 

Jakemyn,  James,  390. 

,  .  .  . .,  merchant  of  Florence, 

38,  450. 

Jakes,  William,  67. 

James,  John,  81,  272,  419. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  bin-goss  of  Wallingford 

in  parliament,  290,  298. 

, ,    of   Wallineford,    341,- 

342,  554,  556,  559-562, 

,  Robert,  81,  192. 

See  Fitz  James. 

Jane,  William,  478. 

Janoby,  Henrj%  409. 

Janua.     See  Genoa. 

Jarpenville,  John,  449. 

Jay,  John,  351. 

,  William,  351. 

Jeovene,  Richard  son  of  Bartholo- 
mew le,  118. 

Cf.  Gouvene,  Yonge. 

Jereseye.     See  Jersey. 

Jernemuth.     See  Yarmouth. 

Jernemuth,  Henry  de,  of  Blundeston, 
82. 

Jei'sey,  Jereseye,  island  of,  keeper  of. 
See  Huwet,  Walter. 

Jerusalem,  religious  orders  of.  See 
St.  John,  St.  Lazarus. 

Jesmond,  Jesemuth  [in  Newcastle- 
upon-Tyne,  CO.  Northumber- 
land], manor  of,  515,  521. 

Jevele.     See  Yeovil. 

jewels,  34. 

,  le  Shepherd,  342. 

Joan,  princess  of  Aquitaine  and 
Wales,  the  king's  daughter, 
132,  408. 

Joce,  John,  356. 

, ,  knight,  326,  592. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  of  Penryn,  52. 

Johan,  Martin,  shipmaster,  488. 

,  Sebastian,  ship-master,  488. 

See  Fitz  Johan. 

Johannis,  Nicholas,  merchant,   481. 

Jolm  king  of  France,  93. 

,  agi'eement  with,  112,  113. 

,  captm'e  of,  460. 

,  his  son.     See  Charles. 

,  hostages  for,  91. 

John  duke  of  Lancaster,  the  king's 
son,  46.  61,  80,  84,  93,  139, 
140,  158,  160,  170,  233,  270, 
403,  444,  488. 

,  earl  of  Richmond,  263. 

,  guardian  of  the  peace  and 

justice  in  Leicestershire,  342. 

,  justice  in  Lancashire,   255, 

280. 


John  duke  of  Lancaster — cont. 
,  king   of    Castile   and    Leon, 

445,  461,  464,  484,  488,  505, 

563,  568,  587. 

,  Blanche  his  wife,  139. 

John  earl  of  Kent,  408. 

,  lodging  of,  in  Westminster, 

215,  398. 

,  Elizabeth  liis  wife,  408. 

Jolxn,  Adam  son  of,  de  Lovre,  355. 
,  Nicholas   son   of,   de   Hors- 

loye,  239. 
,  Richard  son  of,  de  Brayton, 

572. 

,  .  .  .  .,  de  Cliderhou,  481. 

,  Robert  son  of,  de  Milnthorp, 

417. 
,  Thurstan  son  of,  de  Wygan, 

453. 

Cf.  Fitz  Johan,  Jonson. 

Johnby,   Jonby  [in  Greystoke],   co. 

Cmnborland,  manor  of,    147. 
Jolif,  Jolyf,  John,  of  Kent,  583. 

,  Roger,  441,  562. 

Jonby.     See  Johnby. 
Jonson,  Henry,  87. 

Cf.  John,  Fitz  Johan. 

Josep,  Gildolfus,  burgess  of  Bruges, 

385. 

,  Robert,  386,  387. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  London,  200. 

Joseph,  Nicholas,  593. 

Josse,  William,  of  Great  Yarmouth, 

180. 
Jowel,  John,  burgess  of  Bodmin  in 

parliament,  298. 
Joye,  John,  425. 
Juaynes,  Peter,  de  Pratis,  merchant, 

envoy,  112. 
Jurdan,     Robert,     coroner     of     co. 

Gloucester,  135. 

,  William,  218. 

Jxu"don,  John,  566. 

justices  for  keeping  the  peace,  use  of 

title,  479. 


K 


Kaerwent,    Nicholas    de,    clerk,    78, 

110. 
Kaile,    Kaj^Io,    Kele,    John    son    of 

William,  31,  172,  221. 

,  William,  221. 

KaUly.     See  Cailly. 
Kaisho.     See  Cassio. 
Kew.    See  Car. 


716 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


KarleJe,  John  de,  of  Newcastle  upon 
Tyiie,  590. 

Karliol.     See  Carlisle. 

Karnels.    iS'ee  Carnolos. 

Karsaiilton.     See  Carshalton. 

Kaul,  Kalph,  coroner  of  Cornwall, 
501. 

Kaiite,  La.    See  Lancaut. 

Kayle.    See  Kaile. 

KaJ^^es.     See  Keynes. 

Kaysho.    See  Cassio. 

Keal,  West,  Westorkelo,  co.  Lincoln, 
manor  of,  379. 

Kechonhaninie.     See  Kitchingham. 

Koditon,  Robert  de,  573. 

Kedleston,  Kotleston,  Kettleston  [co. 
Derby],  Curzon  of,  432,  437, 
438. 

KegAA'orth,  Henry  do,  prior  of  Cha- 
combo,  219. 

Simon,  344. 

Kelby,  Matthew,  of  Devon,  607. 

,  Robert    de,    rector   of    Hel- 

pringham,  572. 

,    Walter,    Walter    de,     196, 

241. 

,  . .  . . ,  escheator  in  Lincoln- 
shire, 13,  17,  49,  51,  62,  121, 
126,  141,  151,  160,  204,  229, 
234,  245,  253,  387,  417. 

, ,  of  Lincoln,   172,  554. 

Keldre,  Keldreshayes.     See  Kielder. 

Kele.    See  Kaile. 

Kelleseye.    See  Kelsey. 

Kelleveden.      See    Kelvedon. 

Kelsall,  Kelshale  [in  Tarvin],  co. 
Chester,  602,  603. 

,  manor  of,  602,  603. 

,  . .  . . ,  manse  of,  603. 

Kelsey,  Kelleseye,  Kelseye  [co.  Lin- 
coln], 282,  426. 

,  South,       Southkelsay,       co. 

Lincoln,   580. 

Kelsey,  Kelleseye,  William  de,  539. 

Kelshale.     See  Kelsall. 

Kelshull,  John,  573. 

, de,  of  Sibsey,  338. 

,  Richard,  573. 

Kelthorpe,  Kilthorp  [in  Ketton],  co. 
Rutland,  12. 

,  manor  of,  12,  24. 

Kelvedon,  Kelleveden,  Kelw-edon, 
CO.  Essex,  88,  94. 

Kelyng,  John,  87. 

Kelyngworth.     See  Kenil worth. 

Kemerton,  Kymmerton,  Kynemer- 
ton,  Kynmerton,  co.  Glouces- 
ter, advowson  of,  454. 

,  manor  of,    108,   468. 

Kemesyng.     See  Kemsing. 


Kempe,  Francis,  of  Diost,  merchant 

of  London,  324. 

John,   386. 

Margaret    wife    of    Francis, 

324. 

Roger,  448. 

Kempes  tenement  in  Stebbing,  co. 

Essex,  349. 
Kcmpton      park,      Kenyiigton      by 

Kyngeston   [in   Sun  bury,   co. 

Middlesex],  keepers  of.     See 

Gayton,    John    de  ;    Kynges- 
ton, John  de. 
Kemsing,     KemesjTig     [co.     Kent], 

manor  of,  82. 
Kendal,  Kirkeby,  Kyrkeby  in  Ken- 
dale,       CO.       Westmoreland, 

court  of,  253. 

,  manor  of,  162. 

Kendale,  Edmund  de,  knight,  237. 

Edward  de,  322,  575. 

,     ,     kniglit,     502,     509, 

510. 
,  Edward  son  of  Edward  de, 

498. 
,  Elizabeth    wife    of    Edward 

de,  498,  502,  509,  510. 
,  Maud    wife    of    Robert    de, 

142,  322. 

,  Philip  de,  237. 

,  Robert  de,  142,  322. 

, ,  knight,  321. 

,  .  .  . . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Salop,  289,  298,  316. 

,  William,  190,  294. 

Kene,  Richard,  346. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  London,  189. 

Kenet.     See  Kennett. 
Kengham.    See  Kingham. 
Kenilworth,   KeljTigworth,   Kenille- 

worth  [co.  Warwick],  prior  of, 

23,  24. 

,  ....  and  convent  of,  23. 

Kennett,  Kenet,  co.  Cambridge, 
manor  and  advowson  of,  376. 

Kermington,  Kenjoigton,  co.  Kent, 
69. 

,  Ulley,  UUee  in,  68. 

Kensington,  Kensyngton,  co.  Middle- 
sex, 97,  533. 

Kent,  county  of,  67,  72,  80,  82,  83. 
93,  96,  105,  179,  191,  200. 
431,  434,  443,  473,  568, 
583. 

,  arrayers  of  men  at  arms  in, 

24,  124,  228,  238,  239,  436. 

,  coroners  of,  50,  236,  358. 

defence  of  coast  of,  238,  239, 

286,  292. 
,  earl  of.    See  John. 


GEJSEKAL    INDEX. 


'17 


Kent — cont. 

,  escheator  in.    See  Bisshopos- 

ton,  John  de  ;  Horyng, 
Nicholas  ;  Norwico,  Richard 
de ;   Tye,  Jolm  de. 

,  p:uardians  of  the  peace  in, 

36. 

.justices     for     keeping     the 

peace  in,  479. 

kniffhts  of  tlie  sliire  of,  101, 

289.  297,  .316.  476,  611. 

sheriff  of.    36.   50,    84.    116, 

138,  177,  180,  181,  185,  188, 
192,  193,  19.5,  202,  204,  209, 
214,  236,  277,  279,  286,  292, 
297,  314,  316,  320,  358,  434, 
436,  439,  462,  464,  467,  469, 
476,  478,  480-482,  531,  587, 
609. 

staple  of  wool  in,   155. 

Kent,  Geoffrey,  Oeoffrey  de,  of  Lon- 
don, 465,  480. 

,  .  .  .  .,  tailor,  584. 

,  John,  John  de,  549. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Barton,  592. 

,   .  .  .  .,  of  London,  423. 

,  Richard,  Riclmrd  de.  592. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  London,  merchant. 

66. 

William  de,  87. 

Kentecombo,  John  de,  104,  425. 

Kentemer.     See  Kentmere. 

Kentisbeare,  co.  Devon,  Black- 
boro\igh  Boty,  Blakebiirgh- 
bot  in,  223. 

Kentish  Town,  Kentisshtoim  [in  St. 
Pancrast,  co.  Middlesex,  285, 
291. 

Kentissh,  Ad.'vm,  427. 

Kontisshtoun.    See  Kentish  Town. 

Kentmere,  Kentemer,  co.  Westmore- 
land, manor  of,  513. 

Kentwode,  John,  knight,  68. 

Kenwardesle.  K\Tiardesle,  Thomas. 
Thomas  de,  427,  465. 

Kenyngton.  See  Kempton,  Kenn- 
ington. 

kerchiefs,   325.   329. 

Kerdeston,  William  de,  knight,  180, 
360,  383,  444,  564. 

, ,  of  Norfolk,  .346. 

William  son  of  William  de, 

383,  384. 

Kerdyf,  Edward  de.  57. 

,  Joan  wife  of  Edward  de,  57. 

Kerdjnigton.     See  Cardington. 

Kerl,  William.  96,  279. 

KermerdjTi.     See  Carmarthen. 

Kernjnigton,  Hugh  de,  13. 

Kersalton.     See  Carshalton. 


Kersey,  GJerard,  599. 

Kervor,  William,  355. 

Kestano.     See  Keston. 

Kesteven,  co.  Lincoln,  parts  of,  195, 

196. 

,  arrays  in,  125. 

,  assessment  of,  248,  249. 

guardians  of  the  peace  in,  37. 

,  ....  and  jastices  of  oyer  and 

terminer  in,  417. 
Keston,  Kestaue  [co.  Kent],  manor 

of,   85. 
Keton.     See  Ketton. 
Keterich,  Keterigg,  Keterych,  Agnes 

wife  of  Roger,  574,  575. 
,  Roger,   Roger  de,  535,  574, 

575. 
,    .....   escheator    in    Essex, 

418,  485,  492,   493,  494,  495, 

503,  405,  527. 
, in  Hertfordshire, 

418,  498,  502,  503,  505,  561. 

, ,  of  Shalford,  609. 

Kotford,  Robert,  437. 
Ketilthorp.     See    Kettlethorp. 
Ketleston,  Ketteleston.    See  Kedlos- 

ton. 
Kettlethorp,  Ketilthorp,  co.  Lincoln, 

advowson  of,  388. 

,  manor  of,  388. 

Laughterton,    Laughton   in, 

388. 
Ketton,  Koten,  co.  Rutland,  12,  24. 
Kcuermond,     Jolm,     crier     in     the 

Common  Bench,  412. 
,  .  .  . . ,  usher  of  the  exchequer, 

499. 
Kexby  [in  Catton],  co.  York,  59. 
Keynes,  KajTies,  Joan  wife  of  John 

de,     farmer     of     manor     of 

Coombe  Keynes,  145. 

,  John  de,  knight,  145. 

,  ....  son  of  Thomas  de,  530. 

Keynesham,  William  de,  burgess  of 

Malmosbury    in    parliament, 

297. 
Keynsham,  KejTiesham  [co.  Somer- 
set], 590. 

,  William  abbot  of,  590. 

Keyser,  John  le,  merchant  of  Bruges, 

226. 
Kidbrook,  Kidebroke,  co.  Kent,  69. 
Kiddington,  Nether,  Nethercudyng- 

ton,  CO.  Oxford,  advowson  of, 

381,  382. 

,  manor  of,  381,  382. 

kiddles,  removal  of,  11. 

Kielder,     Keldre,     Keldreshays     [in 

Falstone,     co.     Northumber- 
land],   121. 


718 


OKXERAL    INDEX. 


Kilborry,  Kilbory  [co.  Moath],  church 

of,  357. 
parson     of.        See      Bacho, 

Thomas. 
Kilbiu'ue,   Eleanor  wife  of   Robert, 

510. 

Robert,  516. 

Kildaro,    county   of,    Ireland,    com- 
mons of,  259. 
Kilham,  Killvmi  [in  Kirknowton,  co. 

Northmnborland],    manor   of, 

448. 
Kilkenny    [co.    Kilkenny],    Ireland, 

246,  265. 

,  parliament  at,  257,  529. 

Killum.     See  Kilham. 
Kilmesham.     »See  Kinsham. 
Kilsby,  Kyldesby  [co.  Northampton], 

parson   of.      See   Bannebury, 

John  de. 
Kilthorp.     See  Kelthorpo. 
ICilton,  Thorpkilton  [in  Skelton,  co. 

York],  139. 
liilvey,  Kylneye  [in  Llansamlet,  co. 

Glamorgan],  manor  of,  124. 
Kimberley,  Kymberlo,  co.  Norfolk, 

manor  of,  358. 
I^mble,  Kymbell,  Kynebelle,  Great, 

CO.  Buckingham,  75,  602. 
,  Kjniebelle,  Little,  CO.  Buck- 

ingliam,   602. 
Embolton,    Kymbalton   castle,    co. 

Huntingdon,  496,  508. 
Kimmerston,  KJ^^^merston  [in  Ford, 

CO.  Northumberland],  fee  in, 

448. 
Kingham,    Kengham,     co.    Oxford, 

605. 
King's  Barn,  Kyngesbernes  [in  Beed- 

ing,  CO.  Sussex],  hayward  of, 

manor  of,  253. 
I^ngsb\iry,      Kyngebviry,      [in      St. 

Micliael's],  co.  Hertford,  West- 
wick  in,  272. 
Episcopi,  Kyngesbiu-y  Epis- 

copi,  CO.  Somerset,  254. 
I^ngsdown,  KjTigesdomie,  co.  Kent, 

manor  of,  272. 
,     Mappiscombo,       Mapeles- 

combe,     Mapplescompe      in, 

186,  191. 
Kngsfold,  KjTigesfold  [in  Warnham 

and  Rusper],  co.  Sussex,  443. 
King's  Langley.     See  Langley. 
Kingsley,  Kjmgcley  [in  Chorley,  co. 

Lancaster],  355. 
King's  LjTxn.     See  Lynn. 
Kings     Pyon,     Kvngespewne      [co. 

Hereford],  189. 
,  manor  of,  189. 


King's  Sutton.     .See  Sutton. 

Kingston,  Kyngeston,  co.  Cam- 
bridge,  604. 

,  .  .  . . ,  advowson  of,  552,  553. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  deeds  dated  at,   553, 

554. 

,  manor  of,  552,  553. 

Lisle,    Kyngeston     do    Isle, 

Isle,  CO.  Burks,  deed  dated  at, 
581. 

,  manor  of,  557,  580. 

,  Fallow,  Fauolore,  Fau- 

loro  in,  557,  580. 

upon  Hull,  Kyngeston  upon 

Hull  [CO.  York],  92,  507,  57L 

.  .  .  . ,  bui'gossos  of,  sum- 
moned to  parliament,  290, 
299,  477. 

,  mayor  and  bailiffs  of, 

115,  201,  264,  329,  365,  477, 
482. 

,  port  of,  44,  192,  227. 

,    . . . . ,    collectors    and 

controllers  of  customs  in, 
150,  317,  391,  409,  518. 

,  keepers  of  passage  in, 

449. 

,  Hulstrete  in,  507. 

,  Market  Place,  Marketh- 

gate  in,  507. 

upon     Thames,     Kyngeston 

upon  Thames  [co.  Surrey], 
119,  494. 

bailiffs  of,  153,  370. 

,  farm  of,   153,  370. 

Kingswood,  Kyngeswode  [in  Cod- 
sail  and  Tettenhall,  co.  Staf- 
ford], 356. 

chace  [co.  Gloucester],  keeper 

of,  212. 

Iving's  Worthy.    <See  Worthy. 

I^nsham,  I\ilmesham  [in  Bredon], 
CO.  Worcester,  44. 

I^by  Bellars,  Kirbeby  upon  Wret- 
hok,  CO.  Leicester,  manor  of, 
2. 

,  warden   of    chapel    of 

St.  Peter  upon  Wreak,  Wret- 
hek  in.    See  Cosyn,  John. 

Misperton,   Kirkeby   Mispir- 

ton,  CO.  York,  112. 

,  Monks,  Monks  ICirkeby  [co. 

Warwick],  places  named  in, 
472. 

Kirketon.    See  Kirton. 

liirkandreas,  Kirkandres  by  Blen- 
karne  [in  Kirkland],  co.  Cima- 
berland,   4. 

Kirkbride,  Richard  son  of  Richard, 
12. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


719 


Kirkburn,  co.  York,  Tibthorpe  and 

Southburn,  Siitliburno  iu,  528. 
Kirkby,  [East  ?],  Kirkeby,  co.  Lin- 
coln, 379. 
Fkiothani,      Kirkeby     Flot- 

liani,  CO.  York,  manor  of,  528. 

Fhotliam  in,  528. 

in      ^lalhaindalo,      Haidith, 

Haghonlyth  in,  7. 
La     TJiorjJe,    Kirkejby     Lai- 

tliorp,  CO.  York,  534. 
Ravenswortli,  co.  York,  Dal- 

ton,  Dalton  Ry<>ll  in,  528. 
,  South,     Southkyrkoby,     co. 

York,  189. 
Underwood,     Kyi'keby,     co. 

Lincoln,   195-198. 
Wharfo,     co.     York,     North 

MUford  in,  95. 
Kirdkalo,  co.  York,  Muscoates,  Mus- 

cotos  and  Wonibloton,  Wym- 

belton  in,  528. 
I^rkeby.    See  Kendal,  Ivirby,  Ivirk- 

by. 

Ivirkeby,  Alice,  349. 

,  ....      wife     of     John     de, 

knight,  574. 

,  Jolin  son  of  John  de,  574. 

,  William,  of  London,  595. 

Kirkehalgh.     See  Kirkliaugh. 
Kirkele     Rode,     Ivirkelerode.       See 

Ivirkley. 
Kirkestede.    See  Ivirlcstead. 
Kirketon,  John  de,  147. 

,  Roger  de,  70,  426. 

,   justice  of  assize  in  cos. 

Norfolk,   Suffolk,  Cambridge, 

Himtingdon,      Bedford     and 

Buckingham,  466. 
Kirkliaugh,   Kirkehalgh  [co.  North- 
umberland], advowson  of,  256. 
Kirklieaton,  Heton  [co.  York],  par- 
son of.    See  Barneby,  Tliomas 

do. 
Kirkland,  co.  Cmiiberland,  Culgaith, 

Colgayth  in,  5. 
Blencarn ,     Blenkarn     and 

Kirkandreas,  Kirkantb-esin,  4. 
Kirk  Lcatham,  co.  York,  East  and 

West  Coatham,  Estcotom  and 

Westcoton  in,  139. 
,  Lackenby,      Lakenby     and 

Lazenby,  Laysjnagby  in,  139. 

,  Wilton  in,  139. 

Kirkley,  Kirkele  Rode,  Kirkelerode, 

Kyrkeleye,       Kyrkeleycrode, 

CO.  Suffolk,  64,  167. 
,  searcher    of    forfeitiu-os    at. 

See  Sholdam,  Reynold  de. 
,  •«Teck  at,  27. 


Kjrklington,  Kyrtlyngton  [co.  York], 

174. 
Kirknowton,    co.    Nortliumborland, 

^Vkeld,      Coui)land,      Kilham, 

Paston  and  Yeveriug  in,  448. 
Kirk  Oswald,  Kirkoswald,  co.  Cuin- 

Ix'rlanfl.  park  of,  45. 
Kirkstead,      Kirkest^ido,      Kirkstedo 

[co.  Lincoln],  abbot  of,  388. 

,  monks  of,  named,  314,  388. 

Kirkthwaite.Kirkthwaj't  [inWigton], 

CO.  Cumberland,  28. 
Kirtling,   Kirtlyng  [(U).   Cambridge], 

manor  of,  123. 
Kirton   in    Lindsey,    Kirketon    [co. 

Lincoln],  566. 
liisUngbury,     Kislyngbury,      Kyse- 

lyngbm-y,   Kyslynbury,   Kys- 

lyngbury,    co.    Northampton, 

advowson  of,  557. 

,  manor  of,  557. 

,  parsons      of.        See      Halo, 

Walter     atte  ;       Ledecombo, 

Walter. 
Kist,  John,  343. 
ffitchingham,      Kcchenliamme,      in 

Ashbiu'nham,  co.  Sussex,  296. 
Iviveton,    Kyveton    [in   Wales],    co. 

York,   377. 
Ivnaith,  Knayth  [co.  Lincoln],  lord 

of.    Sec  Darcy,  Jolm. 
Ivnapp    [in    Sliipley],    co.    Sussex, 

manor  of,  261. 
park,  keeper  of.     See  Grene, 

William  de. 
Knapthorpe  [in  Caxinton],  co.  Notts, 

manor  of,  509. 
Ivnaptoft  [co.  Leicester],  92. 
Elnapton,  Ivnapton  by  Scarnston  [in 

Wintringham],  co.  York,  112. 
Knapwell,  John,  John  do,  429. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  London,  318. 

I^aresborough,     Ivnaresburgh,     co. 

York,  200,  582. 

forest,  foresters   of,    64. 

Ivnaj^h.     See  linaith. 

Knebworth,  co.  Hertford,  manor  of, 

505. 
Ivnecchobole,  Robert,  575. 
knighthood,  respite  from,   179,   181. 
Ivnighton,     West,     ICnyghtone     by 

Dorchestre,  co.  Dorset,  76. 

,   .  .  .  .,  deeds  dated  at,  76. 

ICnightsbridge,     I^j-ghtebrigge     [in 

Chelsea,       Kensington       and 

Westminster,  co.  Middlesex], 

533. 
,  Crane-sfeld    and    Southefeld 

in,  533. 
,  deed  dated  at,  533. 


720 


(JK^'EKAL    kNDEX. 


ICiiipton,    Gnyptou    [co.    Leicester], 

339. 

,  advowson  of,  339. 

,  parsou    of.      See    Oxenford, 

Robert  do. 
linockin,  Knokyn  [co.  Salop],  lord 

of.     See  Strange,  Roger  lo. 
Iviiolles,  Constance  wife  of  Robert  de, 

358,  359,  394. 

Robort,  Robert  de,  186,  201. 

, ,  knight,  358,  359,  394. 

Knot,  ICnotte,  Henry,  clerk,  163. 
.......  Jolxn,  of  Groetliam,  kriight 

of  the  sliiro  of  Rutland,  612. 

, ,  tailor,   378. 

,  Richard,  356. 

,  Roger,  356. 

,  William,  552. 

Ivnottyng,  John,  350. 
Knousele,  Richard  de,  323. 
I^yght,  Alice,   355. 

,  John,  of  Coventry,  324. 

, ,  of  West  Haddon,  312. 

,  ....  son  of  William,  of  Gad- 
don,  603. 
Kjiyghtebrigge.     See  Knightsbridge. 
ICnyghteley,  John  de,  knight  of  the 

shire  of  Stafford,  612. 
Knygliton,   Richard  de,   burgess  of 

Leicester  in  parlianient,  290. 
Eoiyghtone.     See  Knighton. 
ICnyvet,  John,  44,  84,  204. 
,  .  .  .  . ,    chancellor,    87,    445, 

461,  473,  573,  578,  597,  609. 

,  chief  justice,  77,  445. 

.......  ....,     ....    of    the    King's 

Bench,   before  the  king,    94, 

240. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  justice  of  king's  bench, 

to  hold  pleas  before  the  king, 

the  king's  justice,  39,  40,  70, 

73,    92.    201,    202,    224,    238, 

239,  245,  250,  254,  257,  258, 

271,  328,  364,  371,  378,  385, 

388,  424,  512. 
, ,    knight,    73,    75,    111, 

430,  440,  445,  531,  532,  589. 

610. 
Koc,  Koccus,  Richard,  of  Carshalton, 

598. 

,  Thomas,  472. 

Cf.  Cook. 

Korsor  [Zealand,  Denmark]  ?  Caun- 

fare.  Causer  in  Seland,  362. 

,  ship  of,  258. 

Krymbelford,    Geoffrey,  of  London, 

323. 
Kydale,  Kydall,  Thomas  de,  knight. 

241,  591,  592. 
Kylbeef,  John,  87. 


Kyldosby.    See  ICilsby. 
Kyllingwyk,  Edmund  de,  580. 
Kylnoyo.     See  Kilvey. 
Kymbalton.     See  Kiinbolton. 
Kymbell.     See  Kimble. 
Kymberlo.    See  Kimberley. 
Kymmorton.     See  Komerton. 
Kympton,  Jolin,  66. 
Kynardesle.     See  Konwardesle. 
Kynebelle.    See  Kimble. 
Kynemerton.    See  Kemerton. 
Kyng,  John,  of  Scampton,  388. 
,  rector  of  Freshwater, 

280,  284.  285. 

,  Ralph  le,  of  Tarrant,  80. 

William,  349. 

, of  London,  322. 

Kyngebury.    See  ICingsbury. 
Kyngoley.     See  ffingsley. 
Kjmgesbernes.     See  ICing's  Barn. 
Kyngesbrigge,  Thomas,  174. 
Kyngesbury.     See  Kingsbury. 
Kyngesdoune.     See  Kingsdown. 
KjTigesfold.      See   Kingsfold. 
KjTigesfolde,     Kynggesfold,     Isabel 

wife  of  John  de,  430,  453. 
,  John,  John  de,  430,  431,  437, 

443,     446,     448,      453,     572, 

576. 
Kyngespewne.     See  ICings  Pyon. 
Kyngeston.     See  ICingston. 
Kyngeston,  KjTiggeston,  Adain  de, 

of    Scotland,    king's    prover, 

610. 

Henry  de,  74. 

,  John  de,  keeper  of  Kempton 

park,  494. 
Thomas   de,   knight   of  the 

shire  of  Berks,  288. 
Kyngeswode.     See  Kingswood. 
Kynggesfold.     See  Kyngesfolde. 
Kynggeston.    iSee  Kyngeston. 
Kyngsworthy.    See  Worthy,  King's. 
Kynkhorn,  Thomas,  loiight,  484. 
Kynlet,  John,  242. 
Kynmerston.     See  Kimmerston. 
Kynmerton.     See  Kemerton. 
Kynwell,  William  de,  prebendary  of 

Leighton  Buzzard,  241. 
Kyriell,  John,  knight,  186. 
Kyrkeby.     See  Kirkby. 

in  Kendale.     See  Kendal. 

Kyrkeleye,     Kyrkeleyerode.  See 

Kirkley. 
Kyrtlyngton.     <See  Kirklington. 
Kyseby,  Isabel  wife  of  William,  551. 

,  William,  551. 

KyseljTigbury,     Kyslynbury,     Kys- 

lyngbury.    See  Kislingbury. 
Kyveton.    See  Kiveton. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


721 


L 

Lacer,  Richard,  336. 

Lact'ord,  Lakford,  Thomas,  Thomas 

do,  324,  423. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  farmer  of  subsidy,  90. 

,  .  .  . .,  of  London,  poltor,  90. 

,  of  Norfolk,  420. 

Cf.  LeWord. 

Lacheley.     See  Lasliloy  Hall. 
Laehelej-'s  tenement  in  Stebbing,  co. 

Essex,  349. 
Lackenby,  Lakenby  [in  Kirk  Loat- 

ham],  CO.  York,  manor  of,  139. 
Lackyngby,    Lakenby,   William    de, 

coroner  of  co.  York,  237,  486. 
Lacy,  James,  280,  284,  285. 
,  Peter  de,  clerk  of  the  privy 

seal,  94. 
Lady  Hay  Wood,  Ladyes  Hoye    [in 

Ratb}^],  CO.  Leicester,  35L 
Lafford.     See  Sleaford. 
Laigle,  I'Aigle,  honoxir  of,  27 L 
Laindon,  Langdon,  co.  Essex,  fee  in, 

492. 
,  Basildon,     Bartolesden     in, 

492. 
Lais,  Thomas,    343. 
Lakenby.     See  Lackenby,  Lackyng- 
by- 
Lakenham,  Richard  do,  of  London, 

marblcr,  470. 
Lakford.    See  Lacford. 
LakjTig,  Stephen,  82. 
Lakynghethe,  John  do,  201. 

, ,  knight,  359. 

Lamb,  Richard.  332. 

lamb,  rent  of,  97. 

Lambard,  William,  480,  549,  562. 

Lambeth,   Lambhethe  [co.   Surrey], 

deed  dated  at,  70. 
Lambt^y,  William,  of  Dartmouth,  5L 
Lambhethe.     See  Lambeth. 
Lambourn,  Chipping,  Cliepyng  Lam- 
bourne,       Chei^jniglamboume 

[co.  Berks],  manor  of,  8L 
,  .  .  .  . ,  Eastburj',  Estbury  in, 

81. 
,  Upper,  Uplamborne,  L^plam- 

bourne,  co.  Berks,  manor  of, 
496,  557. 
Lambourno,     Robert,     Robert     de, 

clerk,  67. 

,  .  .  . .,  parson  of  Wimbish, 573. 

Cf.  Lambron. 


Lambroko,  Robert,  254. 
Lambron,  William,  560. 

Cf.  Lam  bourne. 

Lambrook,    East,    Estlambroke,   co. 

Somerset,  254. 
lambs'  fells,  45,  46. 
Lammer,  John,   102. 
Lamport.     See  Langport. 
Lananta.     See  Lolant. 
Lancaster,  Lancastro  [co.  Lancaster], 

378. 

,  prison  of  castle  of,  233,  444. 

,  St.  Mary's  priory,  prior  of. 

See  Reynboud,  William. 
Lancaster,  county  of,  97,   194,  343, 

430,  431,  456,  457,  554. 

coroners  of,  363,  378. 

escheator  in.     See  Chorley, 

William  de  ;    Radeclif,  Rich- 
ard do,  the  younger  ;   Sutton, 

Richard        de  ;  Toimley, 

Richard  de. 
,  guardians  of  the  peace  in, 

280. 
,  justices    for    jjleas    of    the 

forest  in,  444. 
of   oyer  and  terminer 

in,  269,  280,  315. 

of  the  peace  in,  154. 

,  ....    to   determine  felonies 

in,  255. 
,  sheriff  of,  41,  233,  299,  363, 

378,  444,  476,  481.      See  also 

Radeclif,  Richard  de. 
,  trespasses     of     sheriff    and 

others  in,  280,  307,  315. 
,  under-sheriff        of.  See 

Chorley,  William  de. 
Lancaster,  duke  of.    See  John. 

,  earl  of.     See  Thomas. 

Lancastre,  Dame  de,  meadow  of,  in 

West  Ham,   455. 
Lancastre,  Joan  (Taillour)  daughter 

of  Roger  son  of  Gilbert  de, 

162. 

,  Jolin  de,  clerk,  97. 

, ,  knight,  147. 

,  Roger    son    of    GUbert    de, 

162. 
Lancaut,  la  Kaute   [in   Tidenham], 

CO.  Gloucester,  advowson  of, 

376. 
lances,  517. 
Lancing,     Launsj-ng     [co.     Sussex], 

parson  of.     See  Gotes,  John 

de. 
Landbeach,     Landbech     [co.     Cam- 
bridge], advowson  of,  587. 

,  fee  in,  493. 

,  manor  of,  587. 

CB  46 


722 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Landeweclnack,  Landewynnek  [co. 
Cornwall],  parson  of.  See 
Crogov,  Peter. 

Landwado,  Landwath,  co.  Cam- 
bridge, fee  in,  493. 

Lane,  John  atte,  of  Calais,  74, 

Stoplien  atte,  67. 

Lanoford.     See  T.angford. 

Lanercost,  co,  Cumberland,  Dacre 
of  Gilsland  in.     See  Dacre, 

Langar,  co.  Nottingham,  advowson 
of,   396,  445,  468. 

deed  dated  at,  73. 

lord  of.     See  Tibetot,  Payn ; 

Tibetot,  Robert. 

manor  of,  396,  468,  469. 

,     Barnston,     Berneston     in, 

397. 

Langavelacli.     See  Llangafelach. 

Langdon.     See  Laindon. 

Lange,  John  lo,  of  Bridgwater, 
Fleming,  345. 

Cf.  Longe. 

Langedale,  Patrick  de,  77. 

, ,  of  Etton,   334. 

Langeford.  See  Langford,  Longe- 
ford. 

Langeleye.     See  Langley. 

Langeleye,  Langelegh,  William  de, 
315. 

,   .  .  .  .,  parson  of  Ringwood, 

518. 

Cf.  Longeleye. 

Langerith.     See  Langriche. 

Langeton.     >S'ee  Langton. 

Langford,  Langeford  [in  Cullompton] 
CO.  Devon,  manor  of,  86. 

,  Laneford,       co,       Norfolk, 

church  of,  318. 

,  CO.  Oxford,  Radcot,  Rote- 
cote  in,  11. 

Langford.     See    Longeford. 

Langham,  co.  Suffolk,  576,  582. 

Langham,  Simon,  archbishop  of 
Canterbury,  479. 

,   .  .  .  .,  bishop  of  Ely,  518. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  cardinal  of  Canterbury, 

423. 

,  Thomas  de,  173. 

,  William  de,  knight,  492. 

Langholm,  co.  Cumberland,  124. 

Langley,  Langeleye  [co.  Derby], 
239. 

[in  Haltwhistle],  co.  North- 
umberland, castle  and  manor 
of,   31. 

,  King's,        Childerlangeleye, 

Childernelangele  [co.  Hert- 
ford], clerk  of  works  at.  See 
Maimnesfeld,  Henry  de. 


Langlo}',  King's — cont. 

,   .  .  .  . ,   controllers   of   works 

at.       See    I'arker,     Richard ; 

Wolverton,  William  de, 
,  letters  close  dated  at, 

38,  61,  610. 
Marsh,  Langlo  ^lareyes    [co. 

Buckingham],  428. 
Langold  [in  Letwoll],  co,  York,  377. 
Langport,   Lamport  [co.   Somerset], 

573. 
Langriclie,  Langerith,  Bartholomew 

son  of  William,  clerk,  441. 
John  son  of  Bartholomew, 

of  Waltham  Holy  Cross,  176. 

,  Matthew,    176. 

Langthwayt,  Margaret  daughter  of 

Robert  de,    18. 

,  Robert  de,  of  Rillington,  18. 

Langton,  co.  Lincoln,  manor  of,  379. 
Little,    Langeton   [in   Great 

Langton],  co.  York,  528. 
Langton,  Langeton,  Geoffrey  de,  268, 

269. 

,  John  de,  59. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  York,  275. 

,  Walter       de,       bishop       of 

Coventry  and  Lichfield,  240, 

241. 
Langtree,  co.  Devon,  Stowford,  Stou- 

ford  in,  34,  35. 
Langueray,  Martin  de,  496. 
Lanreath,   co.   Cornwall,  Bottallick, 

Botylet  in,  86. 
Lansallos,   co.   Cornwall,  Trenewan, 

Trenant  in,  35. 
Lanteglos-by-Fowey,    co.    Coi'nwall, 

Polruan,  Polruen  in,  264. 
Lanthony,     Llanthony     priory     by 

Gloucester,     co.     Gloucester, 

possessions  of,  in  Ireland,  24. 

495. 

,  prior  of,  24,  43,  230,  495. 

Cf.  Llanthony. 

Lapyn,  Thomas  son  of  James,  45. 
Lardiner,    Richard,    servant   of   the 

bishop  of  Bath,  538. 
Larke,  William,  583. 
Lascels,    Lasceles,    Lassels,    Isabel, 

377. 
,  Joan    daughter    of    Roger, 

377. 

,  John,  497. 

Roger,  escheator  in  Cumber- 
land, 521. 
,....,     ....     in    Yorkshire, 

358,  377,  394,  405. 

, ,  knight,  543. 

Lashley  Hall,  Lacheley  [in  Lindsell], 

CO.  Essex,  manor  of,  349, 


GENERAL    IXDEX. 


T23 


Lasscls.    See  Lascels. 

Lato^vJ^■s,  John,  456. 

Latham,  Latluun,  Lotliam,  Edward 

do,  400,  453. 

,  Tliomas  do.  307. 

Lathbiiry,  Latliobury  [co.  Biicking- 

liain],  579.  I 

Latliobmy,  Henry  de,  578,  579.  ! 

Latluim.     See  Latham. 
Latijnor,  Latymer,  JoJm,  bvirgoss  of 

Norwich  in  parliament,   299. 

, of  Norwicli,  345,  346. 

,  Tlioma«:,     kniglit,     lord     of 

Braj-brooke,  547. 

,  WiUiam,  Wilham  de,  526.         ' 

,  constable  of  Dover  cas- 
tle and  warden  of  the  Cinque 

Ports,  369,  371,  381,  384,  428,     ! 

436,  444,  447,  402.  464,  483, 

498,  541,  578,  588,  609. 
,   justice   of   the   forest 

north  of  Trent,  6. 
,  . .  .  . ,     keeper     of     Galtrys 

forest,  166. 
,....,     ....     of    tho    forest 

north  of  Trent,  28,  134,  159,     I 

237,  255,  362,  386.  ' 
, ,    knight,    73,    75,    192, 

535,  572. 

,  of  Danby,  77. 

lord  de,  407. 

lord  of  Danby,  73,  112, 

430,  535,  606. 
,  .  .  .  .,  William  lord  de,  the 

king's  chambcrlaij\,  436,  445, 

461,  469,  536.  573.  597,  609. 
,  ....  son  of  William,  son  of 

William,  knight,  engraver  of 

dies  in  the  tower  of  London, 

525,  526. 
Laton,  Latoun,  William,  William  de, 

284,  562. 
,  verdorer  in  Inglewood 

forest,  9,  363. 
Latymer.     See  Latimer. 
Laueney,  Tliomas,  338. 
Lauerens,  Walter,  288. 

Cf.  La^%-rence. 

Laufare.     See  Laver. 

Laughtorton,   Laughton   [in  Kettle- 

thorpe],    CO.    Lincoln,    388. 
Laughton,  co.  Sussex,  manor  of,  105, 

271. 
-en-le-Morthen,      co.      York, 

Gildingwells,    Gildanwell    in, 

377. 
Launceston,  Donhevedburgh,  Laim- 

cefton,       Lamiceveton       [co. 

Cornwall],    burgesses    of,    in 

parliament,  290,  298. 


Laxmccston — cont. 

deed  acknowledged  at,  560. 

, dated  at,  560. 

Laundo,  Gailard  de  la,  merchant  of 
Bayonne,  153. 

Thomas  do  la,  458. 

Launsyng.     See  Lancing. 
Laurence.     See  Lawrence. 
Lauton.     See  Lowton. 
Lauton,  John  do,  knight,  75,  76. 
Lavondono,     Richard,     burgess     of 
Newcastle     imder    Lyme     in 
parliament,  290. 
Lavenham,  co.  Suffolk,  advowson  of, 
493,  494. 

,  deed  acknowledged  at,  295. 

Lavenham,  Hiigh  de,  king's  prover, 

189,  190. 
Laver,  Little,  Little  Laufare,  Law- 
fare,  CO.  Essex,  99. 

,  deed  dated  at,  99. 

,  parson  of.    See  Doun- 

ham,  Richard  de. 

,  JNIagdalon,  Laufare    Maude- 

le>ni,  CO.  Essex,  advowson  of, 
562. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  deed  dated  at,  563. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  562. 

lavers,  579. 

Lavington,     West,     Lavynton,     co. 
Wilts,   175. 

,  .  .  .  .,  Gore  in,  47,  175. 

Lavyngton,  John,   414. 
Lavjmton.     See  Lavington. 
law  and  administration  : 

accoimts     of     L'ish     escheators 
rendered  in  Dublin,  512,  513. 
alien  court,  judgment  in,  431. 
alienation    in    fee    contrary    to 

statute  of  Gloucester,  367. 
amendment  of  record,  322. 
ancient  demesne,  privileges  of, 

529. 
annulment  of    charters  etc.  of 

nunor,  9,   10. 
appointment    of    guardians    of 
peace  for  arrays.  18. 

of  sheriff  of  Cornwall  by 

prince  of  Wales,  271. 
assizes    stayed    during    foreign 

expedition,  466. 
cancellation  of  unopened  writ, 

474. 
cause  without  writ  according  to 

custom  of  London,  55,  130. 
charter  parties.  301. 
clerical    and    lay    subsidy    not 

leviable  on  same  land,  244. 
conditions  of  lease  of    rectory 
etc.,  103. 


724 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


law  and  adiuinistration — cont. 

enrolment     in      the      Common 

Bencli,  555. 
of  Scottish  assignments 

of  dower  in  English  cliancery, 

63. 
exemption     of     Cheshire     from 

subsidy,  248. 
of  king's  moneyers  from 

subsidy,   306. 
fresli  force,  assize  of,  254, 
gi'eat    seal,    change    of,    upon 

voyage  of  king  over  sea,  461. 
Irish  merchants  not  considered 

aliens,  406. 
returns     into     English 

chancery,  231. 
judgments  in  chancery,  391,  594. 
for    recovery     of 

land,  502. 
limit  of  age  for  assumption  of 

habit  of  religion,  243. 
manurriission  of  serf ,  106. 
maritime  law,  27,  53,  59. 
marriage  of  minors,   covenants 

for,  557. 
master  and  servant,  relations  of, 

329,  546,  608. 
meeting    of    representatives    of 

whole    body    of    parliament, 

297. 
no  extreme  penalty  or  forfeiture 

in  case  of  mad  criminals,  165, 

494. 
no  outlawry  of  king's  servants 

abroad,  79. 
no    summary    ejectment    from 

freehold,  166. 
oath  taken  at  privy  seal  office, 

303. 
offences  not  replevisable,  386. 
offices  in  connection  with  jus- 
tices in  eyre,  499. 
official   destruction   of   records, 

514. 
pleas  of  accoimt,  119. 
,   outlawry  for,  in- 
sufficient ground  for  seizure, 

254. 

of  debt  and  detenue,  176. 

prior    not    bound    by    private 

contracts   of  friars,   515. 
procediire      upon       death       of 

chancellor,  445. 
recognizance    cancelled   by   the 

chancellor  in  person,  81. 
regulation      of      weights      and 

measiu-es,  608 
removal    of    mills,    weirs    and 

kiddles,  11. 


law  and  administration — cont. 

replevin     of     accused      persons 

upon  death  of  king's  prover, 

611. 
representation     of     alien     mer- 
chants in  inquisitions,  27. 
restitution  of  lands  of  adherents 

of  Thomas  earl  of  Lancaster, 

377,  378. 
revocation  of  protection,  373. 
rights  of  king  and  of  prince  of 

Wales  in  Wales,  497. 
simple  seisin,  148. 
summons  to  parliament  of  per- 
sons discreet  in  shipjiing,  587. 
tenure  of  office  of  sheriff's  clerk, 

6. 
validity    of    general    reniincia- 

tioas,  113. 
vouching  of  the  king's  Serjeants, 

416. 
Lawe,  John,  John  del,  91,  575. 
,  Nicholas,   bailiff  of  Foxton 

market,  255. 
Laweles,  Richard,  chaplain,  395. 
Lawfare.     See  Laver. 
Lawrence,       Laurence,       Loraimce, 

Lorence,    Edmvmd,    70,    164, 

202. 

,  John,  of  Pisf ord,  87. 

,  William,  349. 

Cf.  Lauerens. 

Laxton  [co.  York],  393,  481. 

Layer     Breton,    LejTebretoim,    co. 

Essex,  94. 
Marny,     Leyre    Marny    [co. 

Essex],  94,  425. 

,  chantry  at,  94. 

,  deed  dated  at,  95. 

,  manor  of,  94. 

,  rector  of.    See  Warner, 

John. 
Lazenby,      Laysyngby      [in      Kirk 

Leatham],  co.  York,  manor  of, 

139. 
Lazonby,    Laysyngby,    co.  Cumber- 
land, manor  of,  118. 
Lea  [in  Ashover]  ?  Leye,  co.  Derby, 

509. 

,  la  Lee,  co.  Gloucester,  132. 

,  .  .  .  .,  forestership  of,  132. 

,  la  Lee,  la  Lee  by  Malmes- 

biu'j%  CO.  Wilts,  175. 

,  .  .  .  .,  manor  of,  74,  175. 

Leake,  Leek,  co.  Lincoln,  567,  568, 

571. 
Leasingham,  co.  Lincoln,  Roxliolm, 

Roxliam  in,  534. 
Leatham.    (See  Kirk  Leatham. 
Leaute,  Robert,  534, 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


725 


Leche,  Emma  wifo  t)f  liicliard,  370. 

,  John,  t  lie  king's  Serjeant,  340. 

liicliard,  the  king's  surgeon, 

370. 
,  William,  merchant  of  Abor- 

doon,  G4. 

Cf.  Leeg'. 

Lecliovvorth,  John,  dork,  163. 
Ledcakuno.     See  Lercedeakono. 
Ledebmy,   Roger,   Roger  de,   clerk, 

123,  12(i.  128. 
Ledeoonib(>,  Walter,  parson  of  Kis- 

lingbiiry,  565,  556,  558. 
Ledene,      William      de,     sheriff     of 

Gloucostershiro,  executors  of, 

43. 
Ledeneye.     See  Lydney. 
Lodes.    See  Leeds. 
Ledes,  Robert  de,  98. 

Thomas,  Thomas  de,  95. 

,  .....  of  Yorkshire,  539. 

Leo,  la  Lee  [in  Thorley],  Isle  of  Wight, 

manor  of,  280,  284,  285. 

See  Lea. 

Lee,  Adam  atte,  176. 

, ,  of  Cove,  419. 

,  John  atte,  kniglit,  10. 

,  ....    father  of    Walter   do, 

577. 
,  Margaret  wife  of  Walter  do, 

577. 

,  Philip  de  la,  596. 

,  Rose  atte,  356. 

,  Stephen  atto,  356. 

,  Walter  de,  knight,  577. 

,  William  de,   del,   de  la,   of 

Croston,  554. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Lancasliiro,  343. 

Leeder damme.     See  Leerdam. 
Leeds,  Ledes  [co.  Kent],  letters  close 

dated  at,  49, 

.  .  .  . ,  prior  of,  54. 

,  Ledes  [co.  York],  95,  97,  98, 

605. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  Armley,   Armelav  in, 

97. 

,  .  .  .  .,  Biu-ley.  Bui'lay  in,  97. 

,  North  Hall,  Xorthalle 

in,  97. 
Leeg',  John,  the  king's  Serjeant  at 

arms,  453. 

Cf.  Lecke. 

Leek  [Brabant  ?],  lord  of,  579. 

See  Leake. 

Leek,  Leko,  Simon  de,  de  la,  knight, 

334. 
,     .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Nottingham,  476,  612. 
,   .  .  .  . ,    of    Xottinghamshiro, 

442,  443. 


Leek — cont. 

Cf.  Loyk. 

Loerdam,  Leedordammo  [Soutli  Hol- 
land 1,  366. 
Lees  Moor  [in  Bakewoll]  ?   Leye,  co. 

Derby,  509. 
Leg.    See  Loggo. 
Legato,  Roger,  105,  ^22. 
Legbui'n,  John  de,  of  Barton,  592. 
Leget,  Holmyng,  100,  110,  285,  508, 

509. 
,  constable  of  AV'indsor 

castle,  494. 
,  .  .  .  . ,     keeper    of    Winsdor 

forest,  14,  64. 
,  receiver  of  the  king's 

chamber,  223,  228,  287. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  the  king's  esquire,  60, 

64,  228. 
,  John,  parson  of  Melsonby, 

513. 
Legge,  Leg,  John,  356. 

,  farmer  of  subsidy,  172. 

,  purveyor  of  corn  for 

Calais,  212. 
Legh,  Alexander  atte,  474. 
Leglie.    See  Leigh. 
Leghes.     See  Leighs. 
Leght,    William    de,    controller    of 

cvistoms  and  subsidies  in  port 

of  London,  530. 
Legliton.     See  Loighton. 
Leghton,  Leyghton,  Jolm,  monk   of 

Llanthonj',    131. 
,  Tliomas    de,    of    Coventry, 

spicer,  324. 
,  William,  of  Hereford,  farmer 

of  subsidy,  90. 

Cf.  Legyton. 

Leghtonstone.     See  Leightonstone. 
Leghys.     See  Leighs. 
Legyton,  Jolm  de,  344. 

Cf.  Leghton. 

Lei  burn.     See  Leyboume. 
Leicester,  Leycestre   [co.  Leicester], 

541. 

,  abbot  of,  351. 

,  burgesses  of,  in  parUament, 

290,  298, 

,  castlo  of,  186. 

,  gaol  of,  497. 

mayor  and  bailiffs  of,  290. 

,  New     Work,     Newerk     in, 

college  of,  432,  437. 
,'....,   . . .  . ,  deed  dated  at, 

438. 
....'..,  the  king's  hall  of,  497. 
Leicester,  Leycestre,  county  of,  78, 

80,  550. 
,  coroners  of,  512,  525,  526. 


726 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Leicester,  county  of — cont. 

,  oscJieator  in,  22U.     See  also 

Catesby,  William  do  ;  More, 
William  atto ;  Palmer,  Wil- 
liam ;  Rous,  Jolin. 

,  guardians  ot  the  peace  and 

justices  of  oyer  and  terminer 
in,  78,  342. 

,  honour  of  Poveril  in,  138. 

,  knights  of  tho  sJiiro  of,  100, 

288,  298,  316,  470,  612. 

,  sheriff  of,  1,  58,  78,  288,  298, 

382,  476,  497,  512,  525,  526. 

taxation  in,  90,  249,  423. 

Leigh,    Leghe,   co.   Kent,    182,    183, 
184,  185. 

All    Saints,    la    Leglie     All 

Saints,  I^tgho  All  Saints,  co. 
Devon,  34,  35. 

,  mill  at,  34,  35. 

Leighs,    Little,    Little    Leghes,    co. 
Essex,  95. 

Leighs,  Leghys,  Thomas  de,  99,  563. 

Leighton      Buzzard,     Leghton,     co. 
Bedford,  241. 

,  prebendary    of.      See   Kyn- 

well,  William  do. 

Leightonstone,    Leghtonstone,    h\in- 
dred  of,  co.  Huntingdon,  140. 

Leke.    See  Leek. 

Lekford,  Robert,  biirgess  of  Ports- 
moutli  in  parliament,  297. 

Cf.  Lacford. 

Lelant,  Lananta,  co.  Cornwall,  86. 

Lelly,  Lely,  Joan  wife  of  John,  the 
younger,  133,  190. 

,  .  .  .  . ,     .  .  .  . ,    assignment    of 

dower  to,  91,  92. 

Lelypasture.     See  Lilly  Pasture. 

Lenborough,  Lethingborne  [in  Buck- 
ingham], CO.  Buckingham,  336. 

Lench.     See  Church  Lench. 

Lenche,  Richard  de,  coroner  of  Wor- 
cestershire, 8. 

Lenedale,     Joan     (de     Northwode), 
daughter  of  John  de,  210. 

,  John  de,  210. 

Lengleys.    See  English. 

Lenne.    See  Lynn. 

Lenne,  John,  Jolui  de,  clerk,  12,  120. 

,  William  de,  bishop  of  Chi- 
chester, 122. 

• ,     ....     of    Worcester, 

122,  221,  251,  259,  525. 

,  .  .  . . ,  cliaplain,  6. 

Cf.  Lynne. 

Lenthale,  Adam,  607. 

Lenton  [co.  Nottingham],  prior  and 
convent  of,  308. 

Letiveisv,  John  son  of  John,  373. 


Leominster,     Lttominstre,     Loomyn- 

stro,  CO.  Hereford,  burgess  of, 

in  parliament,  298,  613. 
Leon,  king  of.      See  John   duke  of 

Lancaster. 
Lopendon.     See  Lepyngeden. 
Lopere,  John,  343. 
L<>pyngcden,  Lcponden,  John,  99,600. 
Lorcedeakono,     Lcdoakone,      Lorco- 

dekno,  John,  339,  357,  523. 

,  . .  . . ,  knight,  of  Cornwall,  87. 

Lescluse.     See  Sluys. 

Loscropo,  lo  Scroup,  Scrope,  Geoffrey, 

canon  of  St.   Mary,   Lincoln, 

473,  545. 

,  Henry,  captain  of  Calais,  126. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight,  548. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  steward  of  the  king's 

hou-seliold,  287. 

,  Joan  wife  of  John,  267. 

,  John,  267. 

,  Richard,  287,  557,  658. 

, ,  knight,  302,  314,  359. 

396,  458,  459,  543,  555,  576. 
, ,    treasurer,    287,    302, 

314,  321,  345,  359,  396,  422, 

424,  445,  461,  462,  573,  578, 

597. 
Lese,  Robert  atte,  442. 
Lesparre,   La   Sparre   [France,   dep. 

Gironde],  Florymound  lord  of, 

136. 
Lestrange,  Lo  Strange,  Le  Straimge. 

^See  Strange. 
Letham.     See  Latham. 
Lethingborne.     See  Lenborough. 
Letranges,  Ralph  de,  456. 

Cf.  Strange. 

Lette,  Ralph,  76. 

Letton  [co.  Hereford],  Hortesle  of. 

See  Hortesle. 
Letwell,  LeweUe,  co.  York,  377. 
,  Langold  and  Odesthorp  in, 

377. 
Letyn,  John,  350. 

Walter,  350. 

Letys,  Roger,  burgess  of  Newcastle 

under    Lyme    in    parliament, 

290,  298. 
Leuelavmte,    Simon,   coroner   of   co. 

Lincoln,   221. 
Leuenaunt.    See  Levenant. 
Leukenore,  John,  277. 
Leusson,  John,  bailiff  of  North  Aston, 

452,  559. 

Cf.  Levesone. 

Levedjrman,  John,  521. 

Levenant,  Leuenaunt,  Walter,  clerk, 

423. 
,  of  Sussex,  425. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


727 


Levericli.  William,   of  Dicklobm-gh, 

378. 
Levorington,  Lovoryngton  [co,  Cam- 
bridge], 340. 
Leversete,  Joan  wife  of  Tlioiuas  do, 
415. 

,  Thomas  do,  415. 

,  ....  son  of  Thomas  de,  415. 

Leverton    [in    Cliilton    Fohat,    cos. 
Wilts  and  Berks],  co.  Berks, 
manor  of,  557,  581. 
Leverton,  Adam  de,  canon  of  Som- 

pringham,  228. 
Leveryngton.     See  Levorington. 
LeverjTigton,  John  de,  423. 

,  Thonaas,    clerk,    423. 

Levesone,  Richard,  coroner  of  co. 
Stafford,  237. 

Cf.  Leusson. 

Levet,  John,  95. 
Lewe,  Henry,  483. 
Lowelle.     Sec  Letwell. 
Lewes,  co.  Sussex,  425. 

,  bailiffs  of,  115. 

,  bui'gess    of,    in    parliament, 

297. 

,  rapo  of,  593. 

Lewes,  Roger,  423. 

See  Lewis. 

Lewis  II,  Loys,  coimt  of  Flanders, 
duke  of  Brabant,  count  of 
Nevers  and  Rethel  and  lord  of 
Malines,  113,  152,  300,  301, 
302. 

,  agreements      and      treaties 

wuth,  225,  300-302,  307,  308, 
427,  428,  447. 
Lewis,  Henry,  343. 

See  Lewes. 

Lexden,  Lexeden,  co.  Essex,  535. 
Lexham,     West,     Westlexliam,     co. 

Norfolk,  manor  of,  120. 
Lexham,  Thomas,  canon  of  Hereford, 

318,  319. 
Leyboiu'ne,  Leiburn,  Adam,  burgess 
of  BridgAvater  in  parliament, 
101. 

,  John  de,  99. 

,  Juliana     de,     countess     of 

Himtingdon.    See  Hastynges. 
Leycestro.    See  Leicester. 
Leycestre,  lL.ej^stre,  Herbert  de,  491. 

,  John,  John  de,  465. 

, ,  of  London,  288. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  tailor,  584. 

,  Richard  de,  332,  486. 

, parson  of  Clifton,  458. 

,  William,  106,  425. 

Cf.  Lister. 

Leye.    See  Lea,  Lees  Moor  ? 


Loygham,  Richard  do,  487. 

Cf.  Loyham. 

Loyghton.     See  Leghton. 
Leyham,  Elizabeth  wife  of  John  de, 
144. 

See  Leygham. 

Levk,  Henry  de,  of  Kensington,  533. 

. . '. Cf.  Leek. 

Leylandshiro,  Leylondshire,  co.  Lan- 
caster,  wapentake  of,   355. 
Leylond,  John  son  of  Thomas  de,  of 

Lancashire,  457. 
Leylondshire.      See   Leylandshire. 
Leyro.    See  Layer  Marny. 
LejTebretoim.    See  Layer  Breton. 
Leystre.     See  Leycestro. 
Lichardewode,    John    de,    merchant 

of  Aberdeen,  64. 
Lichofeld,      LichofTeld,      Lychefeld, 

Simon  de,  426,  562. 
,  Thomas  do,  citizen  of  Wor- 
cester in  parliament,  101. 
Lichfield,  Lychefeld  [co.  Stafford],  57. 

,  bishop  of.     See  Coventry. 

Liddington,     Lidj-ngton    [co.     Rut- 
land], deed  acknowledged  at, 
I  610. 

'<     ,  .....  deed  dated  at,  610. 

,  Ludyngton  [co.  Wilts],  171. 

,  .  .  .  .,  prebend  of,  171. 

Lidyard,        I.rydeyerde,        Lydyard, 
I  Isabel  (lo  Bret)  sister  of  Simon, 

'  455. 

,  John,  settere   [jeweller],   of 

London,  455. 

,  Robert,  chaplain,  163. 

,  Simon,  455. 

,  . . . . ,  of       London,      wool- 
monger,  456. 
Lidyngton.     See  Liddington. 
Liege  [Belgivun],  bishop  of,  314. 

,  privy  council  of,  314. 

Lightfoot,  Lightfot,  Jolm,  of  Writtle, 
600,    601. 

,  Margery  wife  of  Jolm,  600, 

601. 
Lighthorne,    Lytechurn,    co.    War- 
wick, manor  of,  126. 
Likebergh  in  Kendal,  co.  Westmore- 
land, 253. 
Lilford,  Lilleford,  co.  Northampton, 
manor  of,  379. 
'     Lillesdon.     See  Lillisdon. 
I     Lilleshull,    Richard,   parson   of   Off- 
,  well,  491. 

Lilley,  LjTilee,  co.  Hertford,  87. 

,  William  parson  of,  87. 

Lillisdon.  Lillesdon  [in  North  Curry], 
CO.  Somerset,  Beauchamp  of, 
'  290,  298,  316,  537,  573. 


728 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Lilly  Pasture,  Lelypasture  in  Carl- 
ton by  Snaith,  co.  York,  91, 
190. 

Lillyngston.     See  Lvillingstone. 

Limerick,  Lynieric,  Lymeryc, 
Lyrneryk  feo.  Limerick], 
Ireland,  246,  257,  265,  266. 

Limpsfield,  Lymnosfeld  [co.  Sm-rey], 
193. 

Lincoln,  82,  133,  165,  172,  554. 

,  arclideacon  of.     Sec  Haven- 

ser.  Richard  de  ;  Wykoliam, 
William  de. 

,  arclid laoonry  of,  578. 

bailiffs   of,    115,    165,     329, 

612. 

,  bishop  of,  220,  534.    See  also 

BukjTigham,  John. 

canons  of,  named,  545.    See 

also  Lymbergh,  Adam  de. 

castle,  prison  in,   13. 

,  chapter    of,    bailiffs    of,    at 

Welton,  13. 

,  citizens    of,    in    parliament, 

612. 

,  deed  dated  at,  82. 

,  diocese  of,  251. 

,  mayor  of,  115,  329,  612. 

Lincoln,  county  of,  69,  71,  74,  96, 
172,  200,  441.  445,  473,  536, 
539,  549,  551,  554,  599. 

,  arrays  in,  125. 

,  coroners  of,  7,  8,  9,  144,  221, 

236,  500. 

.......  escheators   in.      See  Kelby, 

Walter ;  Navenby,  Thomas 
de  ;  Tresk,  Ralph  de. 

,  guardians  of  the  peace    in, 

37. 

,  inquisition  concerning  fel- 
onies in,  77. 

.justices   to    keep   rivers   of, 

163. 

,  justices  to  keep    the    peace 

in  the  parts  of  Lindsey,  591. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  101, 

289,  299,  316,  476,  611. 

.sheriff  of,   7-9,    13,    37,   41, 

115,  133,  144,  194,  209,  221, 
236,  241,  263,  267,  299,  338, 
476,  500,  542,  545,  611.  See 
also  Rocheford,  Saier  de ; 
WadjTigham,  Henry. 

,  taxation  in,    133,   172,  244, 

248,  249,  423. 

Lincoln,  Henry  de,  479. 

,  Richard  de,  of  Evedon,  535. 

,  Robert,  Robert  de,  502. 

, ,  clerk,  182,  183. 

,  Thomas,  322. 


Lindsell.    co.    Essex,    LaslJey   Hall, 

Lachelej'  in,  349. 
Lindsey,  Lyndeseye  in  Lincolnshire, 

arrays  in  parts  of,  125. 

assessment  of,  248,  249. 

guardians  of  the   peace   in, 

37. 
justices  to  keep  the  peace  in, 

591. 
Lingfiold,  Lj-ngefeld,  co.  Surrey,  419. 

deed  dated  at,  419. 

Linton    upon    Ouse,    Lynton    upon 

Ouse,  CO.  York,  manor  of,  394, 

395. 
Lionel  duke  of  Clarence,  the  king's 

son,  55,  347. 
,  the     king's     lieutenant     in 

L'eland,  6. 
,  Elizabeth  his  wife,   55,   56, 

161. 
,  Pliilippa    (de  Mortuo  Mari) 

his  daughter,  55,  56,  161. 
Liricok,  John,  534. 
Lisbon,  Luscebon,  Lussebon  [Portu- 
gal], 30. 

,  ships  of,  named,  270. 

Liskeard,  Liskird,  co.  Cornwall,  bur- 
gess of,  in  parliament,  298,  613. 
Lisle.     See  Insiila. 
Lismore,   Lysmore   [co.   Waterford], 

bishop  of.     See  Waterford, 
Lister,  William,  79. 

Cf.  Leycestre. 

Liteleland.    See  Eland,  Little. 
Litellondon.    See  London,  Little. 
Lithe.     See  Lj^he. 
Litle,  Lityll,  Richard,  283. 

Robert,  of  London,  99. 

Cf.  Littles,  Lydle. 

Littleborough,  Lyttelburgh,  co.  Not- 
tingham, 309. 
Little  Cotes,   Jolm   de,   coroner  for 

Lincolnshire,   8. 

Cf.  Cotes. 

Littles,  Lyteles,  Alice,  349. 

C/.  Litle. 

Littleworth  ?  Worda  [in  Faringdon], 

CO.  Berks,  manor  of,  168. 
Lityll.     See  Litle. 
Livermere,    Great,    Lyveremere,   co. 

Suffolk,  fee  in,  492,  493. 
Liverpool,  Liverpole,  Lyverpole  [co. 

Lancaster],  514. 

mayor  and  bailiffs  of,  11,  483. 

,  port  of,  11. 

,  .  . . .,  keepers  of  passage  in, 

449. 
livery  of  clerks  of  chancery,  136. 
Llangafelach,       Langavelach       [co. 

Glamorgan],  prebend  of,  ,501. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


729 


Llanrotlial,  co.  Hei'oford,  Trogato, 
Troggot  in,   144. 

Llansamlot,  co.  Glamorgan,  Ivilvey, 
Kylneye  in,  124. 

Llaiithony  Prima  priory,  Lanthony 
in  Wales  [in  Cwmj^oy,  co. 
Monmonth],  lands  of,  in  Ire- 
land, 131. 

monk  of.  See  Loghton,  John. 

,  prior  of,  131,  401. 

See  Lanthonj'. 

Llewelyn.     Sec  Tllo\\•(>l\^^. 

Loagha,  Jolui  Martins  tie,  merchant, 
envoy,  112. 

Lobcnham.     See  Lubenham. 

Loccombe,  Geoffrey,  523. 

Lochmaben,  Loghmaben  castle 
[Dmnfries-shire],  506. 

Lockington,  Lokj-ngton  [co.  York], 
202. 

Loddon,  Lodden,  Lodne,  co.  Nor- 
folk, 420. 

,  manor  of,  376. 

Loddon,  Lodene  lumdred,  co.  Nor- 
folk, constable  of,  490. 

Lodebroke,  William,  of  Northamp- 
tonshire, 87. 

Lodeere,  Walter,  343. 

Lodelowe.     See  Ludlow. 

Lodelowo,  Ludelowe,  Liidlowe,  Jolin, 
John  do,  kniglit,   596. 

,  .....  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Salop,  612. 

,  Thomas  de,  344. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  jiLstice  for  keeping  the 

peace  in  Kent,  479. 

,  ....,  knight,  71,  72,  448. 

Lodene.     See  Loddon. 

Lodenham.     See  Luddenham. 

Lodne.    See  Loddon. 

Lof,  John,  biu-gess  of  Bridgwater  in 
parliament,  101. 

Loft,  John,  338. 

Logemesh  in  Oare  by  Faversham,  586. 

Loghmaben.     See  Lochmaben. 

Loke,  Richard,  of  Suffolk,  324. 

Loksmyth,  Richard  son  of  Hugh,  of 
Aston  Clinton,  106. 

Lokyngton.     See  Lockington. 

Lokyngton,  Lokynton,  William  de, 
583. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  clerk,  446. 

LokjTiton.  See  LokjTigton,  Luck- 
ington. 

Lolham,  John,  532. 

Lolworth,  LoUeworth  [co.  Cam- 
bridge], 440. 

,  manor  of,  440. 

Lombards,  45,  46. 

,  prohibition  of  insults  to,  91. 


Lombardy,  Lumbardy,  309,  400,  414. 

mercliants  of,  121,  129,  399, 

414. 

Lomenour,  Henry,  citizen  of  Nor- 
wich, 222. 

Lomley,  Robert,  355. 

London,  27.  32.  40,  42,-  56,  68,  81,  84, 
86.  87.  91,  99,  100,  102,  107, 
109,  130,  178,  186,  188,  192, 
200,  209,  216,  217,  223,  226, 
228,  275,  277,  283,  284,  287, 
288,  291,  318,  320,  323,  324, 
327,  328,  329,  336,  338,  344, 
362,  373,  389,  404,  414,  416, 
426,  434,  436,  443,  446,  450, 
451,  465,  466,  470,  480,  484, 
487,  496,  497,  509,  531,  532, 
534,  535,  537,  538,  540,  545, 
546,  562,  564,  572,  574,  578, 
583,  584,  585,  591,  594,  595, 
598,  599,  605,  607,  610,  611. 

,  aldermen  of,  18,  31,  80,  177, 

323,  402,  439.  See  also  Biu-y, 
Adam  de  ;  Fraunceys,  Adam  ; 
Mitford,  John  ;  Pecho, 
Jolm  ;  Pj'el,  John  ;  Sancto 
Albano,  John  de  ;  Stodeye, 
John  ;    Walworth,    William. 

,  archdeacon    of.      See    Her- 

tyngdon,  Adam  de. 

,  armourers  of,  86,474,475,573. 

,  array  of  f encible  men  in,  1 8. 

,  bakers  of,  67. 

,  bishop    of.      See    Sudbinry, 

Simon  de. 

,  bridge  wardens  of,  531. 

,  butchers  of,  285,  286. 

,  cause  without  writ  accord- 
ing to  custom  of,  55,  130. 

,  chamberlain    of,    523.      iSee 

also  Cantebrugge,  John  de. 

,  chancery   at,    79,    106,    285, 

448,  452,  453,  457,  465,  484, 
585,  592. 

,  citizens  of,  66,  74,  83,  89,  97, 

109,  112,  119,  143,  173,  210, 
214,  238,  277,  291,  292,  294, 
295,  321,  329,  389,  450,  467, 
478,  523,  532,  533,  535,  544, 
545,  546,  554,  573,  580,  584, 
606. 

,  .  .  .  .,  in  parliament,  299. 

,  collectors  of  customs  in  port 

of,  38,  45,  46,  121,  143,  149, 
150,  170,  207,  210,  213,  216, 
241,  250,  317,  368,  390,  399, 
404,  409,  516,  525,  579.  -See 
also  Bernes,  John. 

,  .  .  .  .    of    petty    customs    in 

port  of,  45.  144,^216,  245,  397. 


730 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


London — cont. 

controller    of    ciistoms    in 

port    of,    143,    150,   170,    210, 
213,     216.     See    also    Loght. 
William  de. 
,  cooks  of,  584. 

,  cordwainers   of,     538,     544, 

591. 

coroners  of,  499.      See  also 

Hockele,  William  do. 

,  customs  in,  evasion  of,  530, 

,  deeds  acknowledged  at,  73, 

75,  81,  91,  280,  284,  285,  286, 
288,  291,  427,  452,  453,  455, 
457,  481,  585,  592. 

dated  at,    68,   69,   73, 

80,  83,  84,  85,  91,  97,  98,  101, 
103,  104,  106,  109,  110,  112, 
113,  116,  172,  173,  174,  186, 
187,  188,  189,  192,  195,  279, 
282,  284,  285,  286,  291,  292, 
293,  294,  295,  309,  318,  319, 
321,  322,  326,  327,  332,  337, 
338,  341,  431,  433,  440,  451- 
456,  461,  465,  468,  470,  471, 
474,  475,  478,  532,  535,  538, 
539,  543,  547,  549-552,  554, 
555,  559,  560,  562-564,  569, 
570,  574,  577,  581,  582,  585, 
588,  590-594,  597,  599,  600, 
606. 

,  diocese  of,  251,  402. 

,  drapers  of,  80,  81,  535,  584. 

,  dyers  of,  535,  591. 

,  escheator     in.       See     below 

under  mayor. 

,  felmongers  of,  325,  328. 

,  fishmongers  of,  312-314,  453, 

582. 

,  free   burgage   in,    372,    478. 

501. 

,  French  hostages  in,  91. 

,  glovers  of,  441. 

.goldsmiths  of,    1,    104,   455. 

hostlers  of,  260. 

husting   of,    291,    449,    453, 

580,   585,   607. 

,  .  .  .  .,  enrolment  in,  372. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  will  proved  in,  227. 

,  husting  of   Common   Pleas, 

enrolment  in,  372. 

ironnaongers  of,  545. 

,  keepers  of  passage  in  port  of, 

42,  302,  312,  327,  331,  337, 
384,  421-423,  448,  467,  471, 
474,  477,  508,  542,  579,  594. 
See  also  Britford,  William. 

,  liberty  of,  429. 

,  masons     of,     employed     at 

Windsor  castle,  516. 


London — cont. 

mayor  of,    18,   31,   91,    110, 

114,   177,   178,  201,  222,  228, 
•     264,  278,  323,  357,  365,  402, 
403,  427,  428,  443,  447,  483, 
611,  523,  568. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  and  escheator  in.    See 

Aubrey,  Andi'ow ;  Bernes, 
John  ;  Bury,  Adam  de  ; 
Chichestre,  John  de  ;  Louo- 
kyn,  John  ;  Mordon,  Simon 
de  ;  Pyel,  John  ;  Tui-k,  Wal- 
ter. 

,  men  of,  112,  382. 

, of  Flanders  in,  260. 

,  mercers  of,  80,  181,  218,  279, 

295,  323,  404,  474,  600. 

,. merchants  of,    30,   56,    121, 

324,  344,  368,  404,  477.  516, 
532,  546,  582. 

,  pelters  of,  90. 

,  pepperers  of,  573. 

,  port  of,  121,  144,  1.50,  192, 

213,  364. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  improvement  of,  402. 

,  proclamation  of  peace  with 

Flanders  in,  427,  447. 

,  of  service  in,  568. 

,  provision  of  slaughter-house 

for,  31,  32,  178. 

,  recorder   of,    31,    177.      See 

also  Halden,  William. 

,  saddlers  of,  332,  574,  598. 

,    sale    of    victuals    in,    180, 

181. 

,  searchers  in  port  of,  20,  516, 

531.  See  also  Britford,  Wil- 
liam ;    Potjm,  Nicholas. 

,  sheriffs  of,  15,  18,  26,  31,  36, 

55,  57,  58,  91,  106,  110,  114, 
130,  136,  176,  177,  193-195, 
201,  209,  222,  228,  257,  260, 
264,  277,  278,  291,  294,  299, 
323,  338,  357,  359,  565,  373, 
382,  386,  402,  403,  426-429, 
434-436,  439,  442,  443,  447, 
449,  452,  465,  478-481,  483, 
487,  496,  501,  509,  511,  516, 
535,  540,  544,  545,  568,  580, 
583-585,  588,  595,  599,  607, 
610,  611.  See  also  Brembre, 
Nicholas  ;  Girdeler,  Robert ; 
Hatfeld,  Robert ;  Philipot, 
John;  Stable,  Adam;  Wy- 
mondliam,  Adam  de. 

.ships  of,  467,  516. 

,  skinners  of,   284.   318,   325, 

328,  545,  551,  564. 

,  spicers  of,  324,  332. 

.......  subsidy  in.  90.  404.  424,  533. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


731 


London — cont. 

,  suburbs  of,  18,  91,  98,  114, 

227.  424,  427,  535. 

,  tailors    of,    538,    584,    585, 

599. 

,  tanners  of,  29 1 . 

,  tapicors  of,  591. 

tavornors  of,  470. 

,  tlio  king's  court  of,  55. 

,  ....  nionoyors  of,  511. 

,  vintners    of,    72,    452,    545, 

559. 

,  weavers  of,  548. 

,  woolmongers  of,  456. 

London,  j>laoes  named  : — 

Aldgate,  Algate,  prison  of,  260. 
All  Hallows'Gracochurch,  Gras- 

cherche,  parish  of,  327. 
Baynardescastol,  Baynardescas- 

tcll.  See  Castle  Baynard. 
Belle  on  the  Hoppo,  the,  327. 
Blanch      Appleton,      Blaunch- 

appelton,  496. 
Bocliersbrigge,   31,   32,    178. 
Brodegate  in  St.  Lawrence,  Old 

JewTv,  295. 
Castle      Baynard,      Baynardes- 
castel,    BajTiai'descastell,    31, 
178,  454,  455,  468. 
Christ     Church,     CristeschTirch, 

282. 
Common  place  of  pleas,  demise 

of,  28. 
Converts,  house  of  the,  578. 
Cordwainer        Street,        Corde- 

wanerstrete,  344. 
Cripplegat«,  Crepulgate,  Cripel- 
gate,  bar  of,  372. 

ward,  alderman  of.     See 

Mitford,  John  de. 
Cristeschurch.  See  Christ  Church. 
Dowgate,    Douegate   ward,   the 

Erber  in,   606. 
Ebgate,  Ebegate,  344. 
Elsingspitel.        See    St.     Mary 

Elsing. 
Erber,   the,   in  Dowgate  ward, 

606. 
Fleet,  Flete  prison,  382. 

,  demise  of,  98. 

,    warden     of,     98, 

495,  498. 

,  wardship  of,   36. 

Street,  Fletestrete,  344, 

440,  538,  610. 

,  chancery  at,  452. 

,     the     bishop     of 

Salisbury's    lodging   in,    440, 
445,  563. 
,  the  king's  close  at,  36. 


London,  places  named — cont. 

Friars,   Crutched,   of   the  order 

of  Holy  Cross  by  the  Tower, 

John     prior    of,     241,     243, 

244. 
Minors,    manse   of,    31, 

178. 
Preachers,  chambers  of, 

called    parlour    and    council 

house,  287. 
,  lodging,  manse  of, 

within     Ludgato,     172,      187, 

292,  345,  578. 
Friday      Street,      Fridaystrete, 

deed  dated  at,  79. 
Guildliall,   Gilialde,  the,  cham- 
berlain of,  364. 
Holbom,  Holboume,  Holburne 

in    the    suburb    of    London, 

deeds  dated  at,  548,  552. 
Holy  Trinity  the  Great,  within 

Algate,  churchyard  of,  344. 
House  of  the  Converts,  chapel 

of,  578. 
inn  of  the  bishop  of  Salisbury  in 

Fleet  Street,  440,  445,  563. 
Kentish   Town,     Kentisshtoun, 

285,  291. 
Lime  Street,  Lymestrete,  Lym- 

strete,  73,  396,  469,  501. 
lodging  of  the  earl  of  Pembroke 

in,  434. 
Lombard       Street,       Lumbard 

strete,  457. 
London  Bridge,  531. 
Lymestrete,    Lymstrete.        See 

Lime  Street. 
Mark  Lane,  Marclane,  227. 
Newgate,  Neugate,  108,  454. 
prison,     386,     426-429, 

434,  436,  442,  478,  499,  535, 

583,  584,  599,   610,  611. 
justices  to  deliver 

goal    of,    610. 
New  Temple,  the  deed  acknow- 
ledged at,  345. 
Old   Dean's    Lane,    Oldedenes- 

lane,  Oldeneslane,  Oldenlane, 

454. 
Queen's    bridge    by    the    river 

Thames,  the,  287. 
St.    Alphege,    Cripplegate,    St. 

Alphege   without   Crepelgate, 

parish  of,  226. 
St.   Andi'ew,   BajTiard's  Castle, 

Bajniardescastell,     by     Bay- 

nardes  Castel,  by  the  'NMiarf, 

parish  of,  157,  556. 

,  . . . . ,   parson   of.     See 

Brian,  John. 


732 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


London,    places    named:     St.    An- 
drew— cant. 
Hoiborn,       Holbourno, 

parish  of,  552. 
St.  Anthony,  parish  of,  79. 
St.    Benot    Graccchnrch,    Gras- 

cliercho,  parish  of,  327. 
[St.    Benet    Sherehog   and]    St. 

Osyth,   St.   Sitlia,  parson  of. 

See  Vyncent,  Kichai-d. 
St.    Botolph,    Bilhngsgato,    by 

BiUingsgato,  parish  of,  327. 
witJiout    Aldgate,    Ale- 
gate,  paa'ish  of,  186. 
,   .....  deed    dated 

at,  187. 
witliout        Bisliopsgate, 

Bissliopesgate,  parish  of,  440, 

441. 
,  Tliomas  parson  of, 

435. 
St.     Clement     Danes     without 

Temple  Bar,  chui'cli  of,   102. 
rector  of.      See  Crosse, 

William  atte. 
St.  Ewin.     See  St.  Owen. 
St.     Gtjorge,     Billingsgate,     by 

Byllinggesgate,     Sir    Walter, 

rector  of,  179. 
St.   Giles   witliout    Cripplegate, 

Crepvdgate,    vicar     of.       See 

Norton,  Philip. 
without   Hoiborn    Bar, 

parish  of,  552. 
without  the  Old  Temple, 

parish  of,  105. 
St.  Helen,  church  of,  173,  174. 
St.    James,   Garlickliythe,    Gar- 

lekliethe,  church  of,  559. 
St.  Katherine  Colman,  parish  of, 

501. 
St.    La\\-rence    by    Candlewick 

Street,  Candelywykstrete,  68. 
Lane,  Seintlawrencelane, 

484. 
,    Old    Jewiy,    lane    of, 

295. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  parish  of,  295. 

Poultney,     college    of, 

Seint      Laui'encz       Pulteney 

church,        master  of.  See 

Wycherlee,  Robert. 
St.    Margaret   Pattens,    Patinz, 

parish  of,  291. 
St.  Martin  le  Grand,  372. 
St.    Mary  at   Hill,   atte    Hulle, 

parish  of,  105. 
Bothaw,    advowson    of, 

606. 
,  parish  of,  606. 


London,  places  named:     St.  Mary — 

cont. 
Colechurch,     Colchirch, 

parish  of,  227. 
Elsing,    within    Crepol- 

gate,     Elsingspitel     hospital, 

prior     of,     226.        See     also 

Draycote,  Robert  de  ;  Gerard, 

Jolm  ;    Wyndusoro,  John. 
Magdalen,    Milk    Street, 

Melkstreto,    parson    of.      See 

Somerby,  William  do. 
without        Bishopsgate, 

Bissliopesgate,  Tliomas  prior 

of  hospital  of,  294. 
St.  Michael   Paternoster  Pater- 

nosterchirche,  rector  of.     See 

Beere,  Thomas  de. 
St.    Mildi'ed,    Bread    Street,    in 

Bredstrete,    rector    of.      See 

Goodrych,  William. 
in   the   Poultry,   rector 

of.     See  VjTie,  John  atte. 
St.  Nicholas  at  the   Shambles, 

pai-ish  of,  286,  291. 
,  shambles  of  butchers  of, 

31,  178. 
St.  Olave,  parish  of,  496. 
by  Crutched,    Crouched 

Friars  in  Tower  Ward,  parish 

of,  187. 
,   Old   Jewry,   parish  of, 

572. 
St.  Owen,  St.  Ewin,  parson  of. 

See  Fraunceys,  Robert. 
St.  Pancras,  Cordwainer  Street, 

St.  Pancrace,  parish  of,  227. 
in  Kentish  Town,  Kent- 

isshtoun,  parish  of,  105,  552. 
St.  Paul,  church  of,  80,  86,  174, 

283,     285,     293,     539,      542, 

554. 
,    canon   of.      See 

Ludliam,  John  de. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  residentiary 

of.      See    Navesby,    William 

de. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  meetings  of  clergy 

at,  111,  286,  587. 
,  .  .  .  . ,      prebendary     of 

Caddington     Minor    in.      See 

Navesby,  William  de. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  of   Chiswick 

in.     See  Maundour,  John. 
St.  Sepulchre  without  Newgate, 

parish  of,  306,  346. 
St.  Sitha.     See  St.  Benet  Shere- 
hog. 
St.    Stephen,    Coleman    Street, 

Colmanstrete,  parish  of,  226. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


(33 


London,  places  named — cont. 

St.  Tliomas  of  Aeon,  of  Acres, 

clmreli  of,  474. 

Vintry,  parish  of,   478. 

St.  Vodast,  parisli  of,  227. 
Savoy,  the,  deed  dated  at,  540. 
Shoroditcli,  Shordicli,  30G. 
Sniithfield,  West,  Westsuiytlie- 

feld,  110. 
Sopereslane,  372. 
Tower,  tlie,  1,  57,  208,  292,  303, 

508,  510. 
,  armour  removed  from, 

584. 
,  constable    of,    59,    373. 

See  also  Buxliull,  Alan  do. 
engi'aver  of  dies  in.    See 

Latimer,  William. 
,  minerals     brought     to, 

107. 

,  prison  in,  373. 

,  prisoners    in,    250. 

,  sub-constable  of.      See 

RuthjTi,  Robert. 
,   the    king's   armovir  in, 

keeper  of.    See  Hatfeld,  Jolui. 
,  the    king's    changes    in 

keepers     of.       See     Glaston, 

Eustace       de  ;        Rothewell, 

William    de  ;      Thorp,    Jolm. 

,  the  king's  mint  in,  305. 

,  . .  .  . ,     keeper     of     the 

touch  in.     See  Toiu",  Eustace 

de  la. 
,  .  .  .  . ,    master    of.      See 

Bardes,  Walter  de. 
,   warden   of.     See 

Thorp,  John. 
,  the  king's  wardrobe  in, 

keeper  of.     See  Sleford,  John 

de. 
Tower  Hill,  Tourehulle,  cleans- 
ing of,  365. 
Vintrj-,  VjTietry,  ward  of,  478. 
Westsmythefold.  iSeeSmithfield. 
Wliitechapel,  Wiitechapell, 

Withechapell  without  Algate, 

parish  of,  582. 
Wood  Street,  Wodestrete,  484. 
London,     Little,     Litellondon     [in 

King'sLangley], CO. Herts,  142. 
London,  Londres,  Loimdres,  Nicho- 
las de.  163. 
,  Robert  de,  knight,  164,  280, 

309. 

,  Thomas,  350. 

Longe,  John.  349. 

,  Katherine  wife  of  Jolm,  349. 

,  Nicholas,  canon  of  Hereford, 

590. 


Longe — emit. 

Richard,  of  Kent,  281. 

Roger,  559. 

Simon,   346. 

Cf.  Lange. 

Longeford,      Langeford,      Langford, 

Alice  wife  of  Nicholas  do,  509. 

Nicholas  de,  kniglit,  430,  509. 

Thomas,  401. 

,   knight,  81,  435. 

,  . .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  sliire  of 

Berks,  611. 
,  William,  of  Gloucestershire, 

294,  295. 
Longeleye,  John  de,  clerk  for  recog- 
nisances of  debts  at  Preston, 

481. 

Cf.  Langeleye. 

Longevilers,  John  do,  147. 
Longe villers.     See  Long\'illiers. 
Longslow,  Wlonkeslowe  [in  Drayton- 

in-Hales],  co.  Salop,  62. 
Longstanton.     See  Stanton. 
Longtown  alias  Ewias  Lacy,  Ewyas 

Lacy,  CO.  Hereford,  castle  of, 

41. 
Longvilliers,     Longexallers    [France, 

dep.  Somme],  abbot  of,  44. 
Longworth  [in  Bolton-le-Moors],  co. 

Lancaster,   528. 
Lonteleye,  John  de,  319. 

Cf.  Lunteleye. 

Lopon,  Lopene,  co.  Somerset,  manor 

of,   62. 
Ix)pham,  CO.  Norfolk,  manor  of,  375. 
Loraunce.     See  La\\Tence. 
Lorchon,  Lorchoim,  John,  533. 

,  Richard,  457. 

Lorence.     See  Lawrence. 

LorrjTig.     See  LorjTig. 

Lorton,  co.  Cvmiberland,  Wythop  in, 

146. 
Lorty,  John,  573. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight,  537, 

LorjTnere,  Jolm,  318,  533. 
Loryng,  LorrjTig,  Nigel.  223. 

, ,  knight,  439,  441, 

,  William,  480. 

Lostwithiel.     Lostwythel,     Lostwy- 

thiel  [co.  Ck>mwall],  bailiffs  of, 

264. 
burgesses  of,  in  parliament, 

290.  298,  613. 
Lothale,  John,  citizen  of  Norwich, 

222. 
Lotherton  [-cum-Aberford],  Lutrjnig- 

ton   by  Aberford,    co.    York, 

92. 
Louches,  Adam,  Adam  de,  knight, 

419,  597. 


734 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


I.oudharn,  John  (l<>,  knight,  73,  446. 

Cf.  Ludliain. 

Loue,  Reynold,  222,  223,  228. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  murcliant  of  London, 

•30,  214,  51G,  532. 

Cf.  Lowe. 

Louecok,  William,  331. 
Lo\iedoun,  Thomas,  336. 
Louekyn,  Adam,  323. 
John,    mayor    of,    and    es- 
cheat or  in  London,  372. 
Loueras,  William,  150. 
Louosford,  John  son  of  William  do, 

of  Etchingliam,  596. 
Louis.     See  Lewis. 
Lounde,    Gerard    do,    knight,     458, 

580. 

,  Thomas  de,  423. 

Cf.  Lund. 

Loundros.     See  London. 

Louth,  Louthe  [co.  Louth],  Ireland, 

manor  of,  164. 

,  Ash,  Asslie  in,  164. 

Castlering,     Castelryng    in, 

164. 
Louth,    Uriel,    county    of,    L-eland, 

commons  of,  259. 
Louthre.     See  Lowther. 

Quale.     See  Whale. 

Louthre,  Hugh,  Hugh  de,  knight  of 

the    sliire    of    Westmoreland, 

289,  299,  316,  476. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  son  of  Hugh  de,  the 

elder,  loiight,  146. 
,.....,  Joan  (de  Eglesfeld),  wife  of 

Richard  de,   168. 
,  Margaret  wife  of  Hugh  de, 

the  elder,  146. 
,  Maud,  wife  of  Hugh  son  of 

Hugli  de,  146. 

,  Richard  de,  168. 

Lovayne,       Lovavgne,       Loveigne, 

Nicholas  de,  knight,  182,  183, 

184,  185,  437,  443,  576. 

,  Robert  de,  knight,  332. 

Loveday,  Lovedy,  John,  356. 
Loveigne.     See  Lova^iie. 
Level,  Lovell,  John,  knight,  309. 

,  LawTence,  386. 

,  Thomas,  103. 

, ,  of  Skelton,  141. 

Lovetoft,  Lovetotes  [in  Bramford], 

CO.  Suffolk,  manor  of,  565. 
Lovetot,  Edward  de,  40. 
,  Joan  wife  of  Edward  de,  40, 

46. 
Lovetotes.    See  Lovetoft. 
Lo\'Te,  Adam  son  of  John  de,  355. 
Lowe,  John  del,  190. 
Cf.  Loue. 


Lowestoft,  Lystoft  [co.  Suffolk],  men 

of,  27. 
Lowesy,  Adam,  of  Fleet  Street,  638. 
Lowick,  Lufwyk,  co.  Northampton, 

manor  and  advowson  of,  48. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  Drayton  in,  48,  53. 

CO.    Northumlxjrland,    Bar- 
moor,  Bayrmoro  in,  448. 
,  . . . . ,    Bowsden,    BoUesdon 

in,  497. 
Lowther,    Louthre,    co.    Westmore- 
land, manor  of,  146. 
,  Wliale,    Louthro    Quale    in, 

146. 
Lowton,   Lauton   [in  Winwick],   co. 

Lancaster,   500. 
Loys.     See  Lewis. 

Lubeck,  Lubek  [Germany],  ship  of, 
I  385. 

j     Lubenham,  Lobenham,  co.  Leicester, 

manor  of,  81. 

i      ,  Richard  parson  of,  547. 

•     Lucca,    Luca,    Lukes    [Italy],    mer- 
chants of,  382,  414. 
Luci.    See  Lucy. 
Lucien,  Warin,  knight,  546. 
j     Luckington,    LokjTiton,    co.    Wilts, 

advowson  of,  62. 
Lucy,  Luci,  Anthony  de,  65. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  keeper  of  the  lands  of 

Andrew  de  Harcla,  5. 
,  Geoffi'ey,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Buckingham,   476. 
,  Joan  daughter  of  Anthony 

de,  65. 
,  ....    wife   of   Anthony  de, 

assignment  of  dower  to,   30, 

31. 
,  Jolm,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Gloucester,    476. 
,  Maud  (de  L^mframviU)  sister 

of  Anthony  de,  65. 
Luddenham,  Lodenham  [co.  Kent], 

585,  586. 
Luddington,  co.  Lincoln,  Garthorpe, 

Gerlethorp  in,  566. 
Lude,  Thomas  atte,  451. 
Liidelowe.     See  Lo  del  owe. 
Ludgvan  Lees  [in  St.  Ives]  ?  Lugans, 

CO.  Cornwall,  manor  of,  86. 
Ludham,  John  de,  canon  of  St.  Paul's, 

London,  429. 

Cf.  Loudham. 

Ludlow,  Lodelowe,  co.  Salop,  80. 
Ltidlowe.     See  Lodelowe. 
Ludyngton.     See  Liddington. 
Luffe,  Richard,  356. 

Cf.  Lof,  Lyf. 

Lufwj'k.     See  Lo\A'ick. 
Lugans.    See  Ludgvan  Lees  ? 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


r35 


Lukes.    See  Lucca. 

Lukke,  Roger,  356. 

Lullingstono,  Lillyngston,  Lullynges- 
ton,  CO.  Kent,  cetstle  of,  286, 
442. 

,  manor  of,  286. 

Lullington,  co.  Derby,  Coton,  Coten 
in,  374. 

Lnlljnigoston.     Sec   Lnllingstone. 

Lnnibardy.     See  Lombardy. 

limacy.     See  idiocy. 

Limd,  Ralpli,  84. 

Cf.  Lonnde. 

Lunteleyo,  Pliilip,  242. 

Cf.  Lontelej^e,  Lutteleye. 

Luscebon.     See  Lisbon. 

Liiscote,  William,  560. 

,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Devon,  476. 

Lussebon.    See  Lisbon. 

Lxisteshull,  Thomas  de,  597. 

Luterell,  Andrew,  458. 

Luton  [co.  Bedford],  75,  509,  510. 

,  .  .  .  . ,      Woodcroft,     Wode- 

croft  in,  509,  510. 

r'^y     Chatham,     co.     Kent], 

72.' 

Lutryngton.    See  Lotherton. 

Lutteleye,  Philip  de,  escheator  in 
Herefordshire,  136. 

, in  Salop,  14,  208, 

273. 

Cf,  Lunteleye. 

Lutterworth,  Luttm'worth,  co.  Lei- 
cester, 223. 

,  St.  John's  hospital,  ad  vow- 
son  of,  274. 

Lychefeld.     See  Lichefeld,  Lichfield. 

Lydney,  Ledeneye,  Lydeneye  [co. 
Gloucester],  John  vicar  of, 
294. 

,  manor  of,  124. 

Lyde,  Joan,  343. 

Lydeyerde.    See  Lidyard. 

Lydle,  Richard.  595. 

Cf,  Litle. 

Lydyard.    See  Lidyard. 

Lyf,  William,  coroner  of  Devon,  162. 

Cf.  Luffe. 

Lym.     See  Lyme  Regis. 

Lj'mbergh,  Adam  de,  canon  of  St. 
Mary,  Lincoln,  379,  380, 
473. 

Lyme  Regis,  LjTn,  co.  Dorset,  bur- 
gess of,  in  parliament,  298. 

,  keepers  of  passage  in  port 

of,  449. 

Lymeric.  LjTiaeryc,  Lymerj'k.  See 
Limerick. 

Lyminge,  co.  Kent,  Sibton  in,  73. 


Lpnington,  Lymyngton,  Lymynton 
[co.  Hants],  bailiffs  of,  371. 

,  keepers  of  passage  in  port  of, 

449. 

Lymnesfeld.     See  Limpsfield. 

Lymyngton,  Lymjmton.  See  Lyming- 
ton. 

LjTicale,  Adam,  611. 

Lyndalo,  John  do,  491. 

Lyndosoll,  Lyndosele,  William,  Wil- 
liam do,  66,  348,  569. 

Ljaideseye.     See  Lindsoy. 

Ljaidhurst  [co.  Hants],  gaol  at,  150. 

r^jnidonforth.  See  Newtown  Lin- 
ford. 

LjTidraper,  William,  bm'gess  of  War- 
wick in  parliament,  290. 

LjTieham,  LjTiham  [in  Shipton- 
under-Wychwood],  co.  Ox- 
ford, 156. 

manor  of,  145,  157. 

LjTig,  CO.  Norfolk,  deed  dated  at, 
564. 

,  manor  of,  564. 

LjTig.    See  Lynk. 

Ljnigayn.     See  Lyngeyn. 

Lyngefeld.     See  Lingfield. 

Lyngeyn,  LjTigayn,  Agatlia  wife  of 
Hugh,  132. 

,  Hugh,  132. 

,  Ralph    de,    knight    of    the 

shire  of  Hereford,  611. 

,  Robert,  396,  469, 

Lynham.     See  Lyneham. 

Lynk,  atte,  LjTig,  Roger,  324. 

Lynlee.     See  Lilley. 

Lynn,  King's,  Lenne,  Lenne  Episcopi 
[co.  Norfolk],  biu'gcss  of,  in 
parliament,  299. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  collectors  of  customs 

at,  14. 

,  great  guild  of,  413. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  keepers  of  passage  in 

port  of,  449,  467. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  maj'or  of.  See  Brim- 
ham,  John  de. 

,  .  .  .  . ,   ....    and   bailiffs    of, 

115,  126,  200,  264,  308,  329, 
345,  428,  483,  588. 

,  . .  .  . ,  merchant  of,  258. 

,  .  .  .  . ,    South    Gate    Bridge, 

Suthbrigge  in,  repair  of,  413. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  steward  of.     See  Cres- 

syngham,  John  de. 

,  West,  Lenne  [co.  Norfolk], 

St.  Peter's  church,  parson  of. 
See  Waldebeef,  Thomas. 

Lynne,  Alice,  585. 

Cf,  Lenne, 

Lynton.    See  Linton. 


736 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Lyon,  Edmund,  99. 

Lyons,  Lyouiis,  James,  483. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the  king's  serjoant   at 

arms,  413. 

,  Kicliard,  224,  492,  516. 

, ,  of  Calais,  225,  226. 

Lysmore.    See  I^ismore. 

Lysours,  Beatrice  wife  of  Hugh  de, 

146,  147. 

,  Hugh  de,  146,  147. 

John  do,  kniglit,  146,  147. 

Lystoft.     See  Lowestoft. 
Lytechiu-n.     *See  Liglitliorne. 
Lyteles.     See  Littles. 
Lyth,  WilHam  do,  biu-gess  of  Aber- 
deen, 27. 
Lythe,  Great   Litlie  [in   Ellesmero], 

CO.  Salop,  15. 
,  CO.  York,  Barnby,  Barneby 

and  Miilgi'ave,  Mulgreve    in, 

16,  17. 
Lythyn,  Jolm  ap,  275. 
Lyttelburgh.     »See  Littleborough. 
Lyveremere.     See  Livermere. 
Lyveremere,  Robert  or  Richard,  492, 

493. 
Lyverpole.     See  Liverpool. 


M 

Mabletliorpe,  Malberthorp,  co.  Lin- 
coln, 379. 
Macchyng,    MacchjTige,    Simon    de, 

189. 
Macliico,  ship-master,  488. 
Madcroft.     See  Maydencroft. 
madder,  madir,  365. 
Maddynglee,     Thomas     de,     king's 

clerk,  203. 
madir.     See  madder. 
Madron,     co.     Cornwall,     Alverton, 

Alwarton  in,  558. 
Mafee,   Mauffe.    Richard,    116,    182, 

183,  184,  185. 
Magdalen  Laver.     See  Laver. 
MageljTi.  John,  of  Wigtoft,  567,  568, 

571. 
Magot,  John,  400. 
Magotes,  William,  87. 
Maidenhead,  Maydenhetho,  Mayden- 

hithe,    CO.    Berks,    286,    291, 

533. 
Maids'  Moreton.    See  Moreton. 
Maidstone,    Maydestan    [co.    Kent], 

bailiff  of'Uberty  of,  189. 
,  gaol  at,  189. 


Maiorko,    Anthony     Francisco     de, 

seaman  of  Oenoa,  509. 
Francis  Borado  de,  seaman 

of  Gunoa,  509. 
,  John  Sagoia  de,  seaman  of 

Gunoa,  509. 
Makado,  Thomas,  coroner  of  West- 
moreland, 236. 
Makenhad,  Makenade,  Margery  wife 

of  William,  410. 

William,  410,  585,  586. 

Makesoye.    See  Maxey. 
Malberthorp.     See  Mabletliorpe. 
Malborough,    co.    Devon,    Collaton, 

Coleton  in,  393. 
Malboys,  Henry,  parson  of  Willough- 

by,  379. 
Maldeghem   [E.   Flanders],  lord  of, 

300. 
Maldon,  co.  Essex,  bailiffs  of,  115. 
,  burgesses  of,  in  parliament, 

299,  477. 
Malefaxmt,  Malyfaimt,  WilUam,  49, 

51. 

,  ....  son  of  William,  49. 

Malemakor,  Roger,  321. 
Malema%Tis,    IVIalmeyns,   Henry  son 

of  John,  210. 

\      ,  Jolm,  137,  138. 

Roger,  of  Kent,  281. 

Malepert,  Jolm,  of  London,  452,  453. 
Malepilys,   Bardet   de,   of  Florence, 

master  of  the  king's  moneys 

of  the  mint  in  Calais,  303,  449. 
Malet,  Baldwin,  coroner  for  Somer- 

.set,  57. 

,  Richard,  chaplain,  22. 

Malewayn,  Malweyn,  John,  155,  502. 

;      ,   ....  son  of  John,  155. 

j      ,  PhUip,  433. 

Malgraf,  Jolm,  263. 
Maligns.     See  Malyns. 
Malines,  Belgium,  300. 

,  lord  of.    See  Lewis  II. 

Mallesores,         Amy         (Perewj^che) 

daughter  of  Sir  Thomas,  81. 

Cf.  Mallore,  Maylloure. 

Mailing,  East,  Estmallynge,  Estmal- 

lyngg,  CO.  Kent,  68. 
.......  West,   MaUynge,    co.  Kent, 

344. 
Mallore,  Jolm,  knight,  312. 
,  Richard,  of  West  Haddon, 

knight,  312. 

Cf.  Mallesores.  Maylloure. 

Malmesbury,  co.  Wilts,  bm-gess  of,  in 
parliament,  297. 

,  Milboiu-n  in,  175. 

Malmesbm-y,  John  son  of  Robert  de, 
442. 


OENKRAL    INDEX. 


737 


Malaioj'ns.    See  Malomayns. 

Malo  Lacu,  Maiiloy,  Elizabeth  wife  of 

Poter  do,  531. 

Peter  do,  139. 

,  ....,    k<'oj)or    of    Berwick- 

upon-Tvvet;d,   485. 

, ,  kniglit,  480. 

, ,  the  third,  16,  17. 

Malreth.  See  Molrotli. 
malt,  33,  257,  280,  380. 
Maltby,  John  de.  vicar  of  Alton,  594. 

,  Robert  de,  of  London,  594. 

Cf.  Mauteby. 

Malvern  chaoo  [c;o.  Worcester],  baili- 
wick of  Bisshopnswodo  in,  569. 
MalwejTi.    See  Malowaj-n. 
Malyfaiint.     See  Malefannt. 
Malyns,  Maligiis,  Reynold,  Reynold 

de,  Ivnight,  68,  450,  555,  556, 

662,  589,  602. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  knip;ht  of  the  shire  of 

Oxford,  611. 
Mamchestre.     See  Manchester. 
Man,  John  le,  144. 
Manchester,    Mamchestre,    co.    Lan- 
caster,  advowson  of,    160. 

manor  of,  160. 

Maneley,  Mcinely  [in  St.  Veep],  co. 

Cornwall,  manor  of,   35. 
Manerisfe.     See  Manners  fee. 
Manors,  Alina  wife  of  Robert  de,  400. 

,  Jolin  son  of  Robert  de,  400. 

Manewdon,  Manewedon  [co.  Essex], 

98. 
Manfeld      [near     Leatherhead,     co. 

Surrey  ?],  596. 
Manfeld,  Robert,  330, 
Manners  fee,  Manerisfe  in  Fulbourn, 

CO.  Cambridge.  457. 
Memningford  Bohun,  Manyngford  [in 

Wilsford],  CO.  Wilts,  manor  of, 

496. 
Manningtree,   Manytre    [co.    Essex], 

baihft's  of,  115. 
MannjTig,  John,  clerk,  450,  554,  660, 

561,  602. 
,  .....  fisher,  son  of  William, 

of  Clungford,  109. 
Manser,  Richard,  cliaplain,  240. 
Manston,    Thomas    de,    coroner    of 

Devon,  135. 
Mantaffe.  Nicliolas,  de  Pere,  seaman 

of  Genoa,  509. 
Manton  [co.  Rutland],  570. 
Manton.  John  de,  570. 
Manwode.  William,  573. 
Manyngford.     See  Manningford. 
Manyngford,  Roger,  Roger  de,  76. 
, ,  . .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Dorset,  612. 


Manypany,  John,  butcher,  of  London, 

286. 
Manytre.     See  Manningtree. 
Manyware,    Ricliard,    of    Dartford, 

345. 
Mapelescombe.      See    Mappiscombe. 
Mapelton,  Mappilton,   Ellen  wife  of 

John  de,  571. 
,  Maud    wife    of    Robert    de, 

507,  571. 

,  Robert  de,  507,  571. 

,  Tliomas  de,  98. 

Maplestoad,  Great,  Mapiltrestede,  co. 

Es.sex,  foe  in,  492. 
Mappilton.     See  Mapelton. 
Mappiscombe,  Mapolescombe,  Map- 

plescompe     [in     KingsdowTi], 

CO.  Kent,  186,  191,  210. 

,  advowson  of,  186,  191. 

,  deed  dated  at,  186. 

Mapples,  John,  John  de,  coroner  of 

CO.  York,  236. 

, of  Rothorham,  308. 

Mapplescomi^e.      See   Mappiscombe. 

marble,  413. 

Marcant.     See  Marchaunt. 

March,    la    Marcho,    earl    of.      See 

Mortuo    Mari,    Edmund    de ; 

Mortuo  Mari,  Roger  de. 
Marchal.    See  Mareschal. 
Marcham,    Mercheham,    co.    Berks, 

280. 

,  church  of,  280. 

Marchaunt,      Marcant,      Markaunt, 

John,   79. 

,  Robert,  knight,  98. 

,  . . . . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Sussex,  612. 

,  William,  105. 

Marche.     See  March. 
Marche,  Peter,  merchant,  481. 
,....,     . . . . ,    of    Florence, 

216. 

,  William  atte,  552. 

, ,   of  Middlesex,   422. 

Mardley,  IVIardelebury  [in  Welwyn], 

CO.  Hertford,  manor  of,  396, 

469. 
Mare,  John  de  la,  95. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight,  601. 

,  .  .  . .,  of  Nunney,  knight  of 

the  shire  of  Somerset,  612. 

,  Peter  de  la,  118,  258. 

,  Robert  de  la,  knight  of  the 

shire  of  Wilts,  100,  476,  611. 
Thomas  de  la,  of  Aldermas- 

ton,  181. 

of  Berkshire,  672. 

Mareschal,      Marchal,      MareschalJ, 

Marshall,  Marsshal,  Adam,  71. 

CR  47 


738 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Maresohal — cont. 

Hugh,  433. 

Jolm,  chaplain,  70. 

, clerk,  550. 

,  Margaret,  dame  de  Mauny, 

550. 
,  .....  lady  of  Soagrave  and 

Weston,   488. 

,  Robert,  550,  554. 

,  ....    father   of     Roger,    of 

Shellow  Bowells,  562. 

William,  274. 

.......  .....     rector     of     INIarston 

Morteyne,  439,  469. 
Mareys,  Edith  wife  of  John,  601. 
,     Emma    mother    of    John, 

601. 

,  John,  226,  227. 

,  .....  of  Bradford  on  Avon, 

601. 
,  .  .  .  . ,   of    Salcott,   chaplain, 

336. 

Cf.  Mersh. 

Margaret  Rootliing.     See  Roothing. 
Margaretting,    co.    Essex.    Coptfold, 

Copwold  m.  492. 
Marioim,  Robert,  of  Melbourn,  582. 
.......     Cf.  Mary  an. 

Maris,    Pascalotus   Usus,   syndic   of 

doge     and     commonalty     of 

Genua,  213,  216. 
Markaunt.     See  Marchaimt. 
Markeby.  Henry,  323. 
Markeley,    Walter,    coroner    of    co. 

Gloucester.  236. 
Market  Bosworth.     See  Bosworth. 
Overton,      Marketesoverton, 

Marketoverton.    See  Overton. 
Market-Street,  Merkyate  [cos.  Bed- 
ford and  Hertford!,  20. 
Market  Weighton.    See  Weighton. 
markets,  342,  348. 
,  proclamations  at,   193,   195, 

202. 
Markham,  co.  Nottingham,  554. 
Marks,  Merkes,  Merkeshall  in  Great 

Dunmow  [co.  Essex],  manor 

of,  327,  485,  486. 
Marlborough,  Marlebergh,  co.  Wilts, 

280. 
castle,    constable    of,     155. 

323. 

letters  close  dated  at,  324. 

Marlebergh,      Roger,     of      London, 

591. 
Marleberwe,    Thomas   de,    chaplain. 

rector  of   St.   Michael.    Long 

Stanton,  457. 

Cf.  Marlebergh. 

Marlere,  Jolm,  clerk,  560, 


Marlesford,  Marlibford  [co.  Suffolk], 

parson     of.       «S'ee      Stookes, 

Luke  de. 
Marlow,  Little,  Little   Merlawe  [co. 

Buckingham],  deed  dated  at, 

451. 

.......  manor  of,  45L 

MarmehuU.     See  Mamhull. 
Marmyon,  John,  kniglit,  459. 

William,  417. 

,  knight.   92. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Lincoln,  476. 
Marnham,  co.  Notts.  571. 

,  manor  of,  567,  571. 

Marnhiill,   Marmeliull    [co.    Dorset], 

parson   of.     See   Chuderlegh, 

Richard  de. 
Marny,  Alice  wife  of  Robert  de,  286. 
,  Robert,     Robert      de,      le, 

knight.  94,  95,  96.  263,  285, 

563. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Essex.  101,  289.  299.  316. 
,  Thomas,  parson  of  Taplow, 

84. 
marque  and  reprisal.  113. 
marriage  covenants,  556,  557. 
Marshall.     See  Mareschal. 
Marsh  Gibbon,  Mersshe.  co.  Bucking- 
ham, manor  of.  556,  558. 
Street  [in        Dartford]  ? 

Merssh,  344. 
Marsshal.     See  Mareschal. 
Marston,  Mersshton,  co.  Lincoln,  396, 

397. 
Morteyne,      Merstone,      co. 

Bedford,  clnirch  of.  439. 

deed  dated  at,  439. 

,  rector  of.      See  Mares- 
chal, William. 
Martel,  Martille,  Hugh,  Hugh  de.  49, 

50,  73. 

,  Robert.  73,  567,  571. 

Martelesham.     See  Martlesham. 

Martille.     See  Martel. 

Martins,  John,  de  Loagha,  merchant, 

envoy,  112. 
Martlesham,  Martelesham  [co.   Suf- 
folk], Robert  parson  of,  240. 
Martlesham,  William,  seaman,  209. 
Martock,    co.    Somerset,    Stapleton, 

Stapelton  in,  491. 
Martyn,  Hxigh,  349. 

,  John,  349. 

chaplain,  604. 

,  . .  . . ,    of    Thorpe    Langton, 

239. 
Juliana  wife  of  Walter  {or 

William).  46U, 


GENERAL    LXDEX. 


739 


MartjTi — cont. 

,  Kobort,  knight,  76. 

of  Faruborough,  419. 

,  Walter  (or  William),  469. 

,  William,  190,  294. 

,  Zenobo     do,     merchant     of 

Florence,   450. 
Martjaidale,    Roger   de,    coroner   of 

Cumberland,  236. 
Maryan,  John,  37.3. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  mercliant  of  Lucca,382. 

Cf.  Marioiui. 

Maryns,  John,  98,  285. 

maslin,  33. 

Masmines,  Philip  de,  knigJit,  300. 

Mason,    Masoun,    Peter,    burgess   of 

Nottiiigliam    in     parliament, 

101. 

,  Roger,  534. 

,  William,    of    Great    Billing. 

87. 
masons  for  Windsor  castle,  516. 
]\Iasoun.    See  Mason. 
Massjaigliam,  Jolm  do,  85. 

,  clerk,  67. 

,  Nicholas  de,  560,  563,  564. 

570. 
master's  remedy,  the,  303,  304. 
Matersay.    See  Mattersey. 
Matesford.    See  Mattesford. 
Matlock,    CO.    Derby,    Wakebridge, 

Wakebrugge  in,  550. 
Mattersey,  Matersay,  Mattersay  [co. 

Nottingham],  239. 
Mattesford,  Matesford,  Jolm,  250. 
,  ....,    esclieator   in   Devon, 

418.  506,  522. 
Matthew,  Ednumd,  566. 
Mattok,  Tliomas,  400. 
Maudesley,  Henry  do,  355. 

Cf.  IModesley. 

Mauduji;,  Agnes  wife  of  John,  50. 

,  Bugo,  parson  of  Deane,  111. 

,  Jolm,  knight,  lord  of  War- 
minster,   112. 
Mauf?e.     See  Mafee. 
Mauger,  John,  verderer  of  Selwood 

forest.  51. 
Maviley.    See  Male  Lacu. 
Mauncy,  John.  567. 
Maundovillo.  Maimdevylo,  Anno  wife 

of  Tliomas  de.  284,  285. 

,  Richard.  546. 

.Thomas,  Thomas  de,  496.508. 

,  knight.   99,   560,   575. 

tlie  voiuiger,  280, 

284,  285. 
Maundom",     John,     prebendary    of 

Chiswick  in  St.  Paul's  chiu"ch, 

540. 


Maunnesfold.    See  Maimsfeld. 

Maunsel,  Jolm,  552. 

,  Robert,  of  London,  mercer, 

80. 
Maunsfeld,  Maunnesfeld,  Henry  de, 

clerk    of    works    at     ICing's 

Langloy,  142. 

John  de,  of  (Chesterfield,  461. 

Maunston,  Alice  wife  of  William,  425. 

,  William,  425. 

Maiuiy,    Margaret   Mareschal    dame 

de,  550. 
, wife  of  Walter  de,  374, 

375,  376,   377,  379,  505. 
,  Walter  de,  knight,  359,  374, 

375,  376,  377.  379,  478,  505. 
,  lord  of  Merionethshire, 

158. 
Maupas,  William,  456. 
Mautebv.  John  de.  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Norfolk,  612. 

Cf.  Maltby. 

Mautravers,  Agnes  wife  of  John,  the 

elder,  215,  231,  411. 

,  John,  76. 

, ,  of  Hook,  99. 

, ,  the  elder,  231. 

,  .  .  .  .,  the  yoiinger,  231. 

Maxey,  Makeseye  [co.  Northampton], 

chantry,  chapel  of  St.  Mary, 

440. 
.......  .....  chaplains  of,  260,  261. 

,  manor  of,  440. 

,  Niinton  in,  440. 

Maydencroft,  Madcroft  in  Dyneslee 

Furnyval    [in     Hitchin,     co. 

Hertford],  manor  of,  502. 
Maydenhetlxe,     Maydenhitlie.       See 

Maidenhead. 
Maydestan.     See  Maidstone, 
mayhem,  420.  596. 
Mayheu,  William,  208. 

Cf.  Majai. 

Maj'iu.     See  Mayu. 

Maykyn.    .John,    parson    of    Little 

Hallingbury,  573. 

.....  the  king's  seaman.  387. 

Maylloure,  Christopher,  knight,  79. 

Cf.  Malli  sores,  Mallore. 

Maynard,  John,  knight,  458. 
Mnyster,  Jolm.  586. 
Mayu,  Mayiu.  Robert.  564,  570. 
Walter,  the  king's  moneyer, 

306. 

Cf.  MayhoTi. 

mazer,  cups  of,  416. 

, ,  theft  of.  268. 

measiu-es  of  clotli,  608. 

Meath,       Ireland.       commons       of 

county  of,  259, 


740 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Meath — cont. 

,  lordship  of,  530. 

Meaux.     See  Meux. 
Meaux,  Thomas  cle,  363. 
coiisin  of    Tliomas  de, 

363. 
Meavy,  MoAvy,  co.  Devon,  fee  in,  393. 
,  Godainca\'y,  Godemowy  in, 

393. 
Meckyrgan,  Royniund,  328. 
Medbourne,  Medbnrn,  co.  Leicester, 

567,  568,  570. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  570. 

,  manor  of,  567. 

Meddeburno,  Henry  de,  clerk,  73. 
Mede,  Micheal  atte,  222. 

,  Valentine  atte,  98. 

Medsted,  Medestede,  co.  Hants,  70. 
Meinely.     See  Maneley. 
Mekesburgh,    John    de,    of    Rothor- 

ham,  461. 
Melborne.     See  Melbourne. 
Melbourn,    Meldeboiime    [co.    Cam- 
bridge], 582. 
Melbourne,  Melborne,  Melburne,  Mil- 
bourne,   Mulborne,   John  de, 

clerk,  123,  126,  128. 
.......  Richard,  40. 

,  .  .  .  .,  merchant  of  England, 

136. 
Thomas    de,    king's    clerk, 

treasurer  of  Brittany,  222. 

,  William,  William  de,  21.  132. 

Melbroke,  co.  Kent,  manor  of,  108. 
Melburne.     See  Melbourne. 
Melcombe     Regis,     Melcombe,     co. 

Dorset,  38. 

,  bailiffs  of,  32,  201,  264. 

,  burgess    of,    in    parliament, 

298. 
,  collectors  of  customs  at,  38, 

409. 

port  of,  129,  214. 

,  .....  keepers  of  passage  in, 

449. 
Meldebourne.     See  Melbourn. 
Meleward,  John,  400. 

,  Thomas  le,   356. 

Cf.  Mule  ward. 

Melford.     See  Milford. 
Mellere,  John,  of  Broxted,  349. 

Cf.  Milner,  Mullere. 

Melling,    co.    Lancaster,    Neville   of 

Hornby  in,  574. 
Mells,    Melles    [in    Wenhaston],    co. 

Suffolk,  manor  of,  565. 
Melreth,  Malreth,  Philip,  Philip  de, 

clerk,  281,  334,  495,  505,  506. 
,  . . .  . ,     parson     of     Bishop 

Stortford,  558. 


Melsa.     See  Meux. 
Melsonby,    Melsamby,    Melsliamby, 
CO.  York,  628. 

parson  of.    See  Leget,  John. 

Melton,    Little    [co.    Norfolk],    333, 
334. 

Mowbray,     Melton,     Melton 

Moubray,  co.  Leicester,    160, 
339. 

,  deed  dated  at,  339. 

,   keeper    of   manor   of, 

159.     See  also  Basset,  Ralph. 
Melton,  Robert  de,  clerk,  533,  589. 

of  chancery,  502. 

Mena,      Nicholas,      shipmaster,      of 

Portugal,  270. 
Mendip,    Munedop    [co.    Somerset], 

coroner  for  parts  of,  57. 
Menesse,    William,    official    of     the 
archdeacon     of     Canterbury, 
478. 
Meneville,    William    de,    sheriff    of 

Durliam,  320. 
Monill,  Richard,  knight,  565. 
Mensthorp   [in   North   Elmsall],   co. 

York,  189. 
Mentmore,    co.    Buckingham,    Row- 
den,  Royesden  and  Whaddon, 
Waddon  in,  447,  448. 
Mentmore,  Michael,  422. 
Meon  Stoke,  Meonestoke,  co.  Hants, 
manor  of,  535. 

,  West,  CO.  Hants,  Westbury 

in,  513. 
j     Mepeshale,  WiUiam,  285. 
,     Mepirsale,  Alice  wife  of  John  de,  40, 

45. 
i     Merande,  Martin  Peres  de,  sliipmas- 
1  ter,  envoy,  112. 

:     Mercer,  John,  merchant  of  Scotland, 

129. 
1     merchants,  alien,  26,  27,  357. 

j      ,  Irish,  406. 

,  statute  of,  481. 

Mercheham.     See  Marchara. 
Meres,  Mers,  Roger  de,  95,  473. 

,  . .  .  . ,    justice    of    assize    in 

Norfolk,  175,  360. 
Mereworth,  co.  Kent,  John    parson 
of,  137. 

,  manor    and    advowson    of, 

137. 

,  Oldhay,  Holdhay  in,  137. 

Mereworth,  Henry  son  of  Jolin  son 
of  Eleanor  sister  of  John  de, 
210. 

,  John  de,  137,  138. 

, ,  knight,  210. 

Meriden  alias  Alspathe,  co.  Warwick, 
i  manor  of,  374. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


741 


Meriet,  Meryet,  Jolm  de,  62, 

, ,  kiiight,  172. 

,  Maud  wife  of  John  do,  62. 

Cf.  Miryot. 

Merioneth,   Moryoiinj  th,   county  of 
[Wales],  lord  of.    See  Mauny, 
AV^alter  de. 
Merkes,  Mei'keshall .    See  Marks. 
Mcrkliall,  co.  Essex,  manor  of,  109. 
Merkyate.     See  Market-Street. 
Merland,  Merlaund,  Henry  de,  273, 
360. 

,  ....  son  of  Henry  de,  273, 

360,  361. 

Joan  wife  of  Henry  do,  273, 

360,  361. 

,  Margaret  wife  of  Henry  de, 

273,  360,  301. 
Merlawe.    See  Marlow. 
Merlot,  William,  the  elder,  174,  406. 
Merlyng,  Robert,  209,  373. 
Hers.     See  Meres. 
Mersay,  Nicholas  de,  492,  493. 
Mersh,  Robert  de  la,  602 

Cf.  Mareys. 

Merssh.    See  Marsh. 
Mersshton.    See  Marston. 
Mersshwode,  co.  Devon,  342. 
Merstham  [co.  Surrey],  335,  336. 
Merston,  William  de,  monk  of  Ches- 
ter, 327. 
Merstone.     See  Marston. 
Merther,  William,  84. 
Merton  [co.  Surrey],  deed  dated  at, 
544. 

,  St.  Mary's  priory,  prior  and 

convent  of,  212,  544. 

,  . .  .  .,  prior  of,  582. 

,  ..'..,  Robert  prior  of,  542, 

544. 
Merton,  Agnes  daughter  of  Margaret 
wife  of  Richard  de,  522. 

daughter  of  Maud  wife 

of  Richard  de,  522. 

,     Eleanor       (de       Stowille) 

daughter  of  Richard  de,  522, 
523. 

,  Joan     (Baunsile)     daughter 

of  Richard  de,  522,  523. 

,  ....    wife   of   Thomas     de, 

339. 

,  Jolm   de,    parson   of   Great 

BrickliUl,  79. 

,  Margaret    wife   of    Richard 

de,  522. 

,  Maud    wife  of   Richard  de, 

159,  235,  522. 

, assignments  of  dower 

to,  339,  342;  343,  357. 
.......  Richard  de,  522. 


Merton,  Richard  de — cont, 

,  knight,  171. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Devon,  100. 
Mery,  Adam,  tailor,  538. 
Merjet.    iSee  Meriet. 
Mer^-ngton,  Wilham  de,  103. 
Meryormyth.    See  Mt5rioneth. 
messengers,  the  Icing's,  389. 
Mossing,  Messyng,  co.  Essex,  146. 
Metham,    Elizabeth    (de    Stapleton) 

wife  of  Tliomas  de,  528. 

,  Jolm  de,  97,  98. 

,  Thomas  de,  528. 

,  knight,  246,  247. 

Methcwold,  John,  of  Norfolk,  282. 
Mettingham,    MetjTigham,    co.    Suf- 
folk, 565. 

,  castle  of,  565. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  566,  569. 

Meux,  Melsa  [in  Wawn,  co.  York], 

abbot  of,  510. 
Me^vy     See  Meavy. 
Mewy,  Thomas,  of  Devon,  459. 

,  WilUam,  393. 

Meyndy,  Thomas,  560. 

Meynot,  Matthew,  chaplain,  436. 

INIiccham.     See  Mitcham. 

Michel,  Michael,  Greoffrey,  of  Great 

Yeldham,  609. 

,  John,  174,  546. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  544. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  vintner  of  London,  72. 

,  Nicholas,   110. 

,  .  . . . ,    merchant    of    Lorn- 

bardj%  399. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Coventry,  85. 

, ,  of  Venice,  399,  414. 

,  Richard,  568. 

Middelbxirg,   Middelburgh,   Holland, 

burgmasters,     6chevins     and 

consuls  of,  366. 
Middelton.     See  Milton. 
Middelton,  Gilbert  de,  7. 

Jolm.  de,  68,  536,  546. 

,  .  .  . . ,  parson  of  Wardon,  547. 

,  Robert  de,  of  Montgomery, 

420,  421. 
son  of  Robert  de,  420, 

421. 

Thomas  de,  clerk,  551. 

,  parson  of  Hackney,446. 

,  William  de,  sheriff  of  Nor- 
folk, 418. 

Cf.  Milton. 

Middilton.     See  Middleton,  ^lilton. 
Middle,  Mudele,  co.  Salop,  manor  of, 

602. 
Newton,  Neuton  by  Wemme 

in,  507. 


742 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Middlesex,  county  of,  181,  277. 

coronors  of,  8. 

eschoators  in.    See  Bisshop- 

eston,  John  de  ;  Heryug, 
Nicholas  ;  Norwico,  Ricliard 
do. 

knights  of  the  shire  of,  101, 

289,  299,  316,  476,  612. 

sheriff  of,  8,  57,  58,  194,  195, 

299,  439,  476,  532,  538. 

taxation  in,  90, 190,  306,  424. 

Middleton,  co.  Lancaster  ?  Midolton, 
491. 

,  Middilton,  co.  Norfolk,  deed 

dated  at,  560. 

,  manor  of,  560. 

,  . .  .  . ,  Castle  Hall,  Castelhall 

in,  560. 

,  Mydolton,  co.  Suffolk,  maiaor 

of,  46. 
Midford.     See  Mitford. 
Midgham,     Migham     [in     Fording- 
bridge],  co.  Hants,  manor  of, 
285. 
Midhurst,  co.  Sussex,  bui'gess  of,  in 

parliament,  297. 
Migham.     See  Midgham. 
Mikelfeld,  WiUiam  de,  95. 
Milbourn  [in  Malmosbury],  co.  Wilts, 

175. 
Milbourne.     See  Melbourne. 
Milbroke,  John,  vicar  of  Willshamp- 

stead,  466. 
Milcomb,  Mildecombe  [in  Bloxham, 

CO.  Oxford],  194. 
Mildecombe,  John  de,  194. 

,  ....  father  of  John  de,  194. 

Mildenhale,  William  de,  242. 
Mildenhall,    Mildenhale     by    Marle- 
bergh,  co.  Wilts,  advowson  of, 
280,  281. 

,  manor  of,  280,  281. 

Mile,  John,  chaplain,  187. 

,  Robert,   chaplain,    277. 

, ,  clerk,  468. 

,  Walter,  clerk,  436,  437. 

Miles,  Emma  wife  of  Richard,  331. 

,  Richard,  331. 

,  Robert  son  of  Richard,  331. 

Milford  Haven,   MeKord   [co.    Pem- 
broke], lordship  of,  520. 

,  steward  of,  520. 

,  North   [in   ffirkby  WTiarfe, 

CO.  York],  95. 
mill  ponds,  140. 

Millow,  Milneho,  in  Dunton,  co.  Bed- 
ford, 376. 
mills,  23,  24,  34,  35,  97,  117,  118,  311, 
342,  351,  373,  450,  523,  524, 
I  555,  602, 


mills — cont. 

fidling,  114. 

,  removal  of,  11. 

the  king's  water,  at  Wost- 

min.ster,  321. 

.    the  sheriff's,  at  Sloaford,  534. 

,  water,  64,  74,  121,  124,  331, 

334,  348,  356,  366,  509. 

,  wind,  46,  349,  502,  509. 

millstones,   413. 

Milneho.    See  Millow. 

Milner,  Geoffrey,  chaplain,  258. 

,  Hugh,  of  Dickleburgh,  378. 

,  John  le,  355. 

,  William,  610. 

Cf.  Mollore,  INIuUere. 

Milne^vTyht,  Nicholas  le,  of  Leeds, 
605. 

Milnthorp  [by  Quarrington,  co.  Lin- 
coln], 534. 

Milnthorp,  Robert  son  of  John  de, 
417. 

Milthrop,  Robert  de,  bailiff  of 
Stuchbury,  417. 

IMilton,  Middelton,  Middilton,  co. 
Cambridge,  John  rector  of, 
447,  448. 

,  CO.  Oxford,  119. 

,  Great,    co.    Oxford,    Ascot, 

Escote  in,  145,  157. 

next  Sittingbourne,  Middel- 
ton [co.  Kent],  bailiffs  of,  115. 

,  himdred  of,  332. 

,  vicar  of.     See  Cohere, 

Wilham. 

,  South,  CO.  Devon,  82,  83. 

,  deed  dated  at,  83. 

,  Horsewell  and  Sutton 

in,  82,  83. 

Milton.  Jolin,  John  de,  538,  539. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  London,  321. 

Cf.  Middelton. 

Mimms,  North,  North  Mynames,  co. 
Hertford,  manor  of,  279. 

Mindrum,  Myndrom  [in  Carham,  co. 
Northumberland],  manor  of, 
448. 

mines,  258. 

,  leases    of,     106,     194,     195, 

563. 

Minster  Lovell,  Ministre,  co.  Ox- 
ford, manor  of,  309. 

Minsterworth,  Mynstreworth,  co. 
Gloucester,  parson  of.  See 
Herdman,  John. 

Minstre worth,  Munstreworth,  Myn- 
streworth, John  de,  400,  401. 

,  ....,knight,  172,  430. 

mint,  the,  master  of.  See  Bardes, 
Walter  de. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


743 


mint,  the — cont. 

,  wai'den  of.    See  Thorp,  John 

do. 
Mirfeld,  Tliomas  do,  430. 
,  WiHiam,  Willani  do,    clork, 

88,  340,  549,  572,  595,  598. 

,  .........  of  clianccry,  287. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  tlio  peace 

and     justice     of     oyer     and 

tonninor  in  tlio  West  Riding 

of  Yorkshire,  481. 
Miryot,  Maixd  wife  of  John,  of  Carl- 
ton    Castle,     assignment     of 

dower  to,  204,  205,  206. 

Cf.  Moriet. 

Missenden,    Musenden,    Mussonden, 

CO.  Buckingham,  545. 

,  Ralph  abbot  of,  433. 

Misterton,  Mysterton,  co.  Leicester, 

manor  of,  182,  183,  184,  185. 
Poultney,  Pulteneye  in,  182, 

183,  184,  185. 
Mitcham,    Miccham,    Mycham,    co. 

Surrey,  427,  541,  544. 
Mitcheldean,  co.  Gloucester,  forest  of, 

132. 
Mitford,  CO.  Northumberland,  125. 

,  barony  of,  46. 

Mitford,  IVIidford,  Hugh  de,  348,  400, 

548,  590. 

,  Jolm,  Jolin  de,  256. 

,    ....   alderman  of    Cripple- 
gate  ward,  London,  532. 
,  . .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Northumberland,  475. 

,  Richard,  clerk,  431. 

Mitton  [in  Bredon],  co.   Worcester, 

manor  of.  44. 
Mockyng,  MokkjTig,  Jolm,  263,  502. 

,  Nicholas,   502. 

Modbxu"y  [co.  Devon],  lord  of.     See 

Chambernoiui,  Thomas. 
Modeford.     See  Mudford. 
Modesley,  Joan  wife  of  Jolm,  388. 

,  William  son  of  Joan,  388. 

Cf.  Maudesley. 

Mody,  John,  232,  233. 

, tho    Icing's   moneyer, 

306. 
WilUam,  the  kuig's  moneyer, 

306. 
Moen.     See  Mone. 
Mohrm,  Joan  wife  of  John,  of  Dims- 

ter,  384. 
,  John.  John  de,  lord  of  Dun- 

stor,  109. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Dimster,  384. 

Moigno,  John  le,  156. 

Williain,  knight  of  the  sliire 

of  Huntingdon,  289. 


Moignee,  le.    See  Moynos. 
Mokkyng.     See  Mockyng. 
Moldrich,  Jolm,  of  Coventry,  324. 
Mole,  Richard,  burgess  of  Drogheda, 

246,  265. 

Cf.  Molle. 

Molineux.    See  Molyneux. 

MoJland    Botreaux,     Mollond    Bot- 

riaux,  co.  Devon,  manor  of, 

86. 
Molle,   Richard,  spicer,   of  London, 

324. 

Cf.  Mole. 

Mollisford.    See  Moulsford. 

Mollond.    See  Molland. 

Moltcston  in  Wales  [co.  Hereford], 

manor  of,  344. 
Molyn,     Leonard,     burgess     of     La 

EocheUo,  275. 
Molyneux,        Molineux,        Thomas, 

Thomas    de,    233,    280,    307, 

453. 
Molyns,  Molyng,  Joan  wife  of  Jolin 

son  of  John  de,  47,  60. 

John  de,  knight,  47,  60. 

,  ....  son  of  John  de,  47,  60. 

Wilham  de,  knight,  175. 

,  ....  son  of  John  de,  47,  60. 

Monboucher,  Mounburcher,  Bertram 

de,  515,  521. 
,  .  .  . . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Northumberland,   612. 
,  Christiana  wife  of  Bertram 

de,  515,  521. 

,  Nicholas  de,  knight,  477. 

Mondak.     See  Mimdaca. 
Mondham.     See  Muntham. 
Mondham,  Thomas  son  of  John  de, 

419. 
Mone,    Moen,    Jolm,    master    of    la 

Katerine  of  Sluys,  225. 

,  William,  of  Zeeland,  64. 

,  .  .  .  .,  shipmaster,  27. 

Cf.  Moygne. 

Monekebury  in  Upwallop  [in   Over 

Wallop],  CO.  Hants,  manor  of, 

330,  333. 
Monemouthe,  Jolm,  bailiff  of  Glou- 
cester, 392. 
money.     See  coinage  and  currency. 
Mongeweil,  William,  561. 
Monk  Frystone,  co.   York.   Hillam, 

Hillum,  Hulliun  in,  95. 
Monks  I^rby,  Kirkeby.     See  Kirby. 
Montacuto,  Mountagu  [co.  Somerset], 

461. 
,  Bishopstone  and  Newton  in, 

461. 

,  priory,  269,  270. 

,  prior  of,  269,  461. 


744 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Monte  Acuto,  Mountagii,  John,  John 

do,  312. 

, knight,  172,  459. 

William  do,  William,  earl  of 

Salisbiuy,    1,    106,    109,    192, 

194,  221. 
,  marshal  of  Eng- 
land, 209. 

,  .  .  . . ,  of  Frome,  95. 

,  ....  son  of  William  do,  earl 

of  Salisbiu-y,  269,   270. 
Montobourg  [Francrc,  dop.  Manche], 

abbey    of    Sainto    Marie   du 

Mont  at,  597. 
Monto  Forti,  Peter  do,  108. 
Montgomery,       Moimgomory       [co. 

Montgomery],  420,  421. 

deed  dated  at,  421. 

,  service  of  finding  footman  at 

castle  of,  62. 
Montgomery,   lordship  of,   Moungo- 

moroslond,  421. 
Mont  St.  Michel,  St.  Michel  in  Peril 

of  the  Sea,  Normandy,  monk 

of.     See  Garyny,  John. 
Monyn,  Simon,  of  Dover,  baron  of 

the  Cinque  Ports,  299. 
Monyton,    Hugh    de,    75,    76,    142, 

143. 
Moolton,  Robert  de,  clerk,  610. 

Cf.  Multon. 

Moon's  Green,  ?  Morghenes  in  Wit- 

tersham,  co.  Kent,  313. 
Moore,  the  More  [in  Wliitcparish,  co. 

Wilts],  Moregi-ovo  in,   196. 
Moorend,  Morende  castle  [in  Yardley 

Gobion,     co.    Noi-thampton], 

constable  of,  323. 
Moor  Hall,  the  More  [in  Yardley],  co. 

Hertford,   502. 
Moor  Park,    la   More,    the   More   in 

Rykmeresworth      [in      Rick- 

mansworth,     co.     Hertford], 

deeds  dated  at,  315. 
Moorton.     See  Moreton. 
Morant,  Moraunt,  Thomas,  knight, 

182,  183,  442. 

,  of  Kent,  540. 

Morcok,  John,  116. 
Mordant,  Edmund,  494. 

,  Ellen  wife  of  Edmund,  494. 

,  William,    coroner    of    Bed- 
fordshire, 494. 
Morden,  Steeple,  Stepil  Mordon  [co. 

Cambridge],  73. 

,  manor  of,  73. 

Mordon,  co.  Stu-rey,  544. 

Mordon,  Simon  de,  maj^or    of    and 

escheator  in  London,  36,   79. 
Willfam  de,  74. 


More.    See  Mooro,  Moor  Hall,  Moor 

Park. 
More,  Adam  atte,  76. 
,  ....,   oschoator  in   Dorsot- 

sliiro,  418,  487,  512,  531. 
,  .....  ....  in  Somersetshire, 

418,  491,  516,  530. 
,  Agnes  daughter  of  Richard 

atte,  of  Walton,  176. 

,  John,  592. 

,    ....    atte,   coroner    of    co. 

Buckingham,  237. 
, ,  of    Dickleburgh, 

378. 
,  .  .  .  .     de     la,    verdorer     of 

Inglewood  forest,  414,  514. 
,  ....  son   of  Wilham  de  la, 

129. 

Nicholas  de  la,  213. 

,  Robert,  Robert  do  la,  della, 

452,  559,  569,  589,  335. 
,  .  .  .  . ,     citizen    of    London, 

335,  478. 

,  clerk,  109. 

,  . .  . . ,  customer  in  the  port 

of  London,  530. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  vintner  of  London ,  335. 

,  Thomas  atte,  76,   110,  444. 

Walter    atte,    clerk    of    the 

sheriff  of  Somerset,  369. 
,  William   atte,    escheator  in 

Leicestershire,  1. 
Morehalle,  Morhalle,  John  de,  603. 
,  Nicholas  de,  knight  of  the 

shire  of  Worcester,   100. 
Morende.     See  Moorend. 
Moreton,  Mourton,  co.  Dorset,  manor 

and  advowson  of,    179,    181, 

543. 
,  Moorton,  Morton,  co.  Essex, 

99,  548. 
,  Maids,  Morton,  co.  Bucking- 
ham, 168. 
Morrell,  Morton  Daubeneye, 

CO.  Warwick,    126. 

,  manor  of,  454. 

Moreus,    Moreux,    Thomas    de,    the 

father,  knight,  340. 
Morewode,  Nicholas  de,  134, 
,  Thomas  de,  burgess  of  Nott- 
ingham in  parliament,  101. 
,  William,     of     Stoke     Dry, 

verderer  of  the  forest  of  Rut- 
land,  162. 
Morf    forest    [co.   Salop],  service  of 

keeping,  142. 
Morgan,  John,  clerk,  434. 
Morghenes.     See  Moon's  Green  ? 
Morhalle.    See  Morehalle. 
Moriceby,  Christopher  de,  224. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


7« 


Moriceby — cont. 

,  Hugli  de,  224. 

,  Isabel    wife   of    Christopher 

do,  140,  224. 
,  Margaret  wife  of  Hugh  de, 

224. 
Morlee,  IVIorle,  Miirlee,  Thomeis  de, 

372. 

William,  kniglit,  4G8. 

,  lord  do,  340. 

Morloy  wapentake  [co.  York],  Rich- 
ard bailiff  of,  519. 
Mormaiint,  Jolin,  of  Sudbiiry,  mer- 
chant, 382,  383. 
MorrjTie,  William,  593. 
Morthoe,    co.    Devon,    Spreacombe, 

Spiricombe,     Spricombe     in, 

339,  523. 
Mortmain,  276. 

,  cause  in,  23. 

,  licence  in,  23. 

,  statute  of,  391. 

Morton,  co.  Derby,  509. 

Brackenfield,    Brakunthweit 

in,  49. 

See  Moreton. 

Morton,  Jolm,  clerk,  of  London,  470. 

,  Ralph  de,  386. 

,  Robert  de,  73,  567,  571. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  sliire  of 

Nottingham,  100,  289. 

,  William  de,   453,   454,  455. 

Mortim,  John,  592. 

Mortuo  Mari,  ]Mortymer,  Ednnmdde, 

earl  of  March,  55,  56,  61,  158, 

161,  213,  240,  283,  382,  390, 

418. 

,  .  .  . . ,  the  king's  son,  530. 

,  John,  67,  71,  72. 

,  .  .  .  .,  clerk,  559. 

,  Philippa,        the       coimtess 

mother  of  March,  61,  159. 
,   ....    wife   of  Edmiuid    de, 

earl  of  March,  55,  56,  161,  213. 
,  Robert  de,  assessor  of  sub- 
sidy, 489. 
,  .....  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Norfolk,  100,  476. 
,  Roger  de,  earl  of  March,  42, 

208,  251, 

,  Thomas,  111,  532. 

Moryce,  Jolm,  knight,  377. 
Morys,  Andrew,  of  Shoreham,  583. 
,  Jolm,  burgess  of  Cambridge 

in  parliament,  299. 
Mosehole.  See  Mousehole. 
Moston,  Wilham,  538. 

Cf.  Muston. 

Mot,  Mott,  Alice  wife  of  Henry,  427. 
Henry,  427. 


Mot — cont. 

,  John,  440,  450. 

, ,  of  Wallingford,  554. 

William,  561, 

Mote,  Thomas  son  of  Thomtis  atte, 

of  Manfeld,  596. 
Motesfonto.     See  Mottisfont. 
Motoim,  Hugh,  372. 

,  Walter,    372. 

Mott.    -See  Mot. 

Mottesfunt,  John,  88. 

Mottisfont,  Motesfonte  [co.  Hants], 

330,  3X]. 
Moubray.     See  Mowbray. 
Mouldeson,  William,  of  Snaith,  480. 
Moulissh,  Martin,  canon  of  St.  Mary, 

Salisbury,  39. 
Moxilsford,     Mollisford,     co.     Berks, 

manor  of,  247. 
Moulsham,  Mulsham  [in  Chelmsford], 

CO.  Essex,  597. 
Motdsoe,  Mulsho  [co.  Buckingham], 

592,  593. 

deed  dated  at,  593. 

Moulton,  Multon,  co.  Lincoln,  244. 

,  manor  of,  572. 

Moimbm'cher.     See  Monboucher. 
Mounde,  Walter,  of  Walhngton,  83. 

Cf.  Mimde. 

Motmdesdere.     See  Mundesdere. 
Moimgomereslond.     See    Montgom- 
ery. 
Moimgomery.      See  Montgomery. 
Moungowe,  Hugh,   114. 
Mounsorrel.     See  Moim.tsorrel. 
Movmtagu.     See  Montacute,  Monte 

Acuto. 
Moimt  Carmel,  friars  of.    See  Friars. 
Moimte,  Alan  atte,  of  Staines,  478. 

,  Thomas,  of  Wykliam,   560. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  clerk,  552. 

Mounteneye,  Edith,  349. 

,  Edward  de,  son  of  John  de, 

88. 
,  Jolm,  John  de,  of  Yorkshire, 

442. 

,  . .  . . ,  the  yoimger,  442,  443. 

,  .....  verderer  of  the  forest 

of  Essex,  23. 
Moiuitier,  Jolm,  shipmaster,  270. 
Mount  St.  Michael.    See  St.  Michael's 

Mount. 
Mountsorrel,    Moimsorrel,    Mount- 

sorel,  CO.  Leicester,  13. 

,  manor  of,  374. 

Movirhous,  John,  of  Tickhill,  391. 
Moiu-ton.     See  Moreton. 
Mousehole,    Mosehole,    Mouse   Hole, 

Moushole  [in  Paul],  co.  Com- 

waU,  baiUffs  of,  264. 


746 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Mousohole — cont. 

,  keepers  of  passage  in  port  of, 

449. 

,  manor  of,  558. 

Mowbray,  Moubray,  Eleanor  daugh- 
ter of  John  de,  155. 

John,  Jolm  de,  17,  59,  182, 

242,  243,  27G,  277,  407. 

,   .....  justice  of  assize  in  cos. 

Oxford,  Berks,  Stafford,  Salop, 
Worcester,  Gloucester  and 
Hereford,  466. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  lord  of  Cliflond,  knight, 

66. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  lord  of  the  honoiu*  of 

Bramber,  159,  160. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Axliolme,  149,  155, 

219,  238,  253,  261. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Ivirklington,  174. 

,  ....  son  of  John,  370. 

,  Robert,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Cumberland,  101,  476. 

,  Thomas  son  of  John,  370. 

Mower,  Agnes  wife  of  John,  331. 

,  John,  331. 

Mowj'n,  William,  575. 
Moygne,  William,  knight,  575. 

Cf.  Mone. 

Moynes,     le     Moignes     in     Weston 
Colville,        CO.        Cambridge, 
manor  of,  49. 
Moyser,  Henry  de,  of  London,  607. 
Muchelney  [co.  Somei-set],  abbot  of, 

203. 
Muchet,  George,  of  Fen  Ditton,  456. 

,  William  father  of  George, 456. 

Mudele.    See  Middle. 
Mudford,      Modeford       Terry,      co. 
Somerset,  manor  of,  407. 

,  Hinton,  Hyneton  in,  407. 

Muelnare,      Andrew,      burgess      of 

Bruges,  226. 
Mulborne.     See  Melbourne. 
Muleward,  Mulleward,  Gilbert,  429. 

,  John,  of  Scaldwell,  610. 

,  William,  414. 

,  .  .  .  . ,    farmer   of   manor    of 

Dodford,  145. 

Cf.  Meleward. 

Mulgrave,  Mulgreve  [in  Lythe],  co. 

York,  16. 
Mullere,  Thomas,  349. 

Cf.  Mellere,  IMilner, 

Mulleward.     See  IMuIeward. 
Mulseho.     *5ee  Mulsho. 
Mulsham.     See  Moulsham. 
Mulsho.     See  Moiilsoe. 
Mulsho,  Mulseho,  William,  William 
de,       chamberlain      of      the 
exchequer,  1,  94. 


Mulsho,  Wdliam,  William  de — cont. 

, ,    clerk,    70,    334,    433, 

452,  459,  535,  549. 

, ,  of  Buckingham- 
shire, 424. 

Multon.     <S'ee  Moulton. 

Multon,  John  do,  234. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Lincoln,   611. 

Maud  daughter  of  Jolm  de, 

234. 

Cf.  Moolton. 

Mundaca,  Mondak  in  Biscay,  Spain, 
ship  of,  30. 

Munde,  John,  479. 

Cf.  Moxmde. 

Mundesdere,  Moimdesdere,  Robert, 
Robert  de,  of  Yorkshire,  442, 
443. 

Munedep.     See  Mendip. 

Mimk,  Robert,  33. 

Miinstre worth.      See    Minstreworth. 

Muntham,  Mondliam  in  Findon,  co. 
Sussex,  manor  of,  419. 

Murdak,  Thomas,  knight,  312. 

Mm-reslee.       See  Mursley, 

Murlee.     See  Morlee. 

Mursle,  Henry  de,  544. 

Mursley,  Murreslee  [co.  Bucking- 
ham], 75. 

,  Salden  in,  75. 

Muschet,  Richard,  knight  of  the  shire 
of  Cambridge,  101. 

C/.  Musket. 

Muscoates,  Muscotes  [in  Kirkdale], 
CO.  York,  528. 

Muse,  William,  seaman,  20. 

Musenden.     See  Missenden. 

Musgrave  [co.  Cumberland],  parson 
of.    See  Upton,  Richard  de. 

Musgrave,  Thomas  de,  465. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  escheator  in  Cumber- 
land, 4,  12,  30,  45,  65,  118, 
124,  129,  140,  146,  147,  168. 

,  . .  .  . ,  ....  in  Northumber- 
land, 4,  30,  40,  45,  46,  65,  125, 
127,  253,  515,  521. 

,....,  ....  in  Westmore- 
land, 126,  140,  146,  162,  224, 
253. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Yorkshire,  16, 

18,  45,  56,  61,  133,  139,  141, 
190,  229,  234,  393,  491. 

, ,  knight,  114,  463. 

,  . .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

York,  100. 

Musket,  Eleanor  wife  of  John  son  of 
William,  516. 

,  John  son  of  William,  516. 

William,  516. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


747 


Masket — cont. 
Cf.  Muschet. 

Muskliam,    SoiitJi,    by   Newerk   [co. 

Nottingham],  548. 
,  .....  Littlo  Carlton,  Carle- 
ton  in,  548. 

Muskliam,     Hugh     do,     coroner    of 
Derbyshire,  162. 

,  John   do,    vicar   of    Steeple 

Bumpstead,  527. 

,  Robert  de,  clerk,  346,  532, 

539,  547,  551,  576,  604. 

Mu&senden.     See  Missenden. 

Mussonden,  Thomas  do,  448. 

Muston,  John  do,  532. 

Cf.  Moston. 

Muxenbroke,  John  de,  119. 

Mycham.     See  Mitcham. 

Mydelton.     See  Middleton. 

Mymmes.     See  Mimms. 

Myndrom.     See  Mindrum. 

Mynstreworth.      See    Minsterworth, 
Minstre  worth. 

Mysterton.     See  Misterton. 


N 

naam,  11. 
NailljTighui-st,Naylyngherst,Thomas, 

492,  589. 
nails,  324. 
Nanfan,  Henry,  86. 
Nanscawe,  John  de,  burgess  of  Lost- 

withiel  in  parhament,  290. 
napkins,  288. 
Napton    on   the    Hill,    Napton,    co. 

Warwick,  79,  182, 183,184,185. 

,  deed  dated  at,  79. 

,  manor  of,  79. 

Nasche,  Nayse,  Masera  atte,  356. 
,  William,    of    Herefordsliire, 

326. 
Nassyngton,    Thomas,    Tliomas    de, 

110. 
,  . .  . . ,  coroner  of  Coventry, 

129. 
Nategrave.     See  Notgrove. 
Naimton,  Bartholomew  de,  knight, 

171. 

,  Edward  de,  of  Suffolk,  90. 

Naxinton      Beauchamp,      Newenton 

Beauchamp     co.    Worcester, 

advowson  of,  454. 

,  maiior  of,  108,  468. 

Navenby,    Roger    de,    of    Dunham, 

548,  554. 


Xav<'nby — co7it. 

Thomas    do,    escheator    in 

Lincolnshire,  370,  378,  379, 
382,  387,  394,  396,  398,  403, 
510. 

Navesby,  William  de,  canon  resident- 
iary of  London.,  prebendary 
of  Caddington  Minor,  159. 

navy  of  England,  assembly  of,  177, 
180,  181. 

N'ayljTiglierst.    See  NailljTighurst. 

Xayso.     See  Nasche. 

Neel,  Gilbert,  chaplain,  105. 

Neirford,  Alice  de,  dame  de  Neville, 
281. 

Neketon,  Giles  de,  60. 

,  Margaret  (Crull)  daughter  of 

Giles  de,  60. 

Nerleys,  Nereleys  fee  in  Stebbing,  co. 
Essex,  349. 

Nermoustre.     See  Noirmoutiers. 

Neroche,  Raccliich  forest  [co.  Somer- 
set], keeper  of,  255. 

Nessefeld,  Nesefeld,  Nesfeld,  William 
de,  86,  103,  114,  233,  280,  574. 

,  . . . . ,  escheator  in  York- 
shire, 16. 

,  . .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

in  Lancashire,  307. 

net,  theft  of,  405. 

Netheravon,  Netherhaven  [co. 
Wilts],  prebend  of,  22. 

NethercudjTigton.     See  Ividdington. 

Netherhall,  the  Netherhalle  in 
Hickling,  co.  Norfolk,  manor 
of,  340. 

in    Lavenhara,    co.    Suffolk, 

manor  of,  272. 

Netherhaven.     See  Netheravon. 

Netherstrete,  Netliirstrete,  Thomas, 
of  Fulbourn,  457. 

,  William  in  the,  102. 

Netherwallop.     See  Wallop. 

Netliirstrete.     See  Netherstrete. 

Nettlestead,  Netlested,  co.  Suffolk, 
446. 

Neubo  [in  Barrowbv,  co.  Lincoln], 
abbot  of,  69,  441,  549. 

Neubyggjmg.  See  Newbiggin,  Newe- 
biggyng. 

Neudegate.    See  Newdigate. 

Neudegate,  Notegate,  Nywedegate, 
William,  William  de,  335, 
431,  437,  443,  465,  542,  544, 
576,  578. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Surrey,  476. 

,  .....  sheriff  of  Sussex,  212. 

Neuland.     See  Neweland. 

Neulond.     See  Newland. 


748 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Neuport.     See  Newport. 

Neuport,  Isabel  wife  of  John  do,  572. 

,  John  de,  582. 

,  of  Essex,  572,  573. 

.Walter    de,    friar    preacher, 

500,  601. 
Neuporti)aynel.     See  Newport  Pag- 

noll. 
Neasell.    See  NewselLs. 
Neusom  [in  Campsall,  co.  York,  lost], 

471. 

See  Newshani. 

Neusom,  William  de,  471. 

Neuton.      See    Newton,    Newtown, 

Sturminster  Newton. 
Neuwerk,   Jolm,   bm-gess  of   Calais, 

306. 
Neve,  Edward,  of  Norfolk,  180. 
Neverdon,  Robert  son  of  William  do, 

of  Essex,  586. 
Nevers  [France,  dep.  Nievro],  count 

of.     See  Lewis  II. 
Neville,  Nevile,  Nevylle,  Alexander 

de,    archdeacon    of    Durham, 

451,  483. 
,  Alice  de  Neirford  dame  de, 

281. 
....    wife   of  John  de,   as- 
signment of  dower  to,  494,  495. 
,  Elizabeth  wife  of  Robert  de, 

of  Hornby,  574. 

,  John  de,  452. 

,  . .  .  . ,    admiral   of   tlie   fleet 

towards  the  north,  167,  216, 

217,  224,  230,  233. 

, ,  knight,  342,  423,  494. 

.  .  .  . ,  lord  of  Raby,  of  Raby, 

84,  94,  456,  474. 

,  Jolm  lord  de,  478,  517. 

,  .  .  . . ,  steward,  steward  of  the 

king's  household,  424,  445. 

,  Margaret  de,  273. 

,  Richard,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Rutland,  612. 
,  Robert,  Robert  de,  knight, 

451,  483. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Hornby,  574. 

,  William  de,  admiral  of  the 

fleet  from  the  mouth  of  the 

Thames  northward,  428,  447. 
Newark,  Newerk  [co.  Nottingham], 

548. 

,  bailiffs  of,  482. 

Newbiggin,  Neubyggyng,  co.  West- 
moreland, 5. 
Newbold    Pacy,    co.    Warwick,    As- 

horne,  Asshorne  in,  108. 
•  Revel,     Fennyneubolde     [in 

Monks  Kirby,  co.  Warwick], 

deeds  dated  at,  472. 


Newbold  Revel — cont. 

,  lord  of.      See  Revel, 

Nicholas. 

Newbrough,  Newburgh  in  Tyndale 
[co.  Northumberland],  121. 

,  Thornton  Tower  in,   121. 

Newcastle  under  Lyme  [co.  Stafford], 
bailiffs  of,  483. 

,  burgesses  of,  in  parliament, 

290,  298,  417. 

upon  Tyne,  238,  590. 

,    baihffs  of,    115,    201, 

223,  264,  476,  482. 

,  named,  111. 

,  burgesses  of,  in  parlia- 
ment, 290,  299,  476. 

,  collectors  of    customs 

in  port  of,  10,  150,  317,  409. 

,  controllers  of  customs 

in  port  of,  150. 

,  deed  dated  at.  111. 

,   mayor   of,     115,    201, 

264,  476,  482.  See  also  Acton, 
William  de  ;  Aiigerton, 
Robert  de. 

,  places  named  in,  343. 

,  port  of,  192. 

,  . .  . . ,  keepers  of  pas- 
sage in,  449. 

Newdigate,  Neudegate,  co.  Surrey, 
manor  of,  108,  454. 

Newe,  John,  chaplain,  329,  330,  333. 

,  Stephen,  40. 

Newebiggyng,  NeubyggjTig,  WiUiana 
de,  451,  483. 

Newebotele.     See  Nobottle. 

Newehaghe,  William,  of  Lincoln- 
shire, 542. 

Newehalle,  Thomas,  clerk,  537. 

Neweland,  Neuland,  Henry,  602. 

,  Robert,  of  Humberston,  599. 

Newelond.    See  Newland. 

Newemarche.     See  Newmarche. 

Newenham.    See  Newnham. 

Newenham,  Niwenham,   John,   339. 

,  ....  de,  chamberlain  of  the 

exchequer,  1,  94. 

,  Nicholas  de,  175. 

,  Roger  de,  of  Daventry,  346. 

,  Thomas  de,  clerk,   85,   106, 

176,  324. 

Newent,  Nywent,  Roger,  knight  of 
the  shire  of  Devon,  289,  316. 

Newenton.  See  Naunton,  Newton, 
Stoke  Newington. 

Newenton,  Geoffrey  de,  citizen  of 
London,  478. 

Newerk.     See  Newark. 

Newerk,  Wijliam,  chaplain,  441. 

Neweton.    See  Newton. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


749 


Newewright,  Thomas  de,  of  Dickle- 
burgli,  378. 

New  Forest,  the,  [co.  Hants],  164. 

,  keeper    of,    420.       See   also 

Penibrugge,  Ricliai'd  do. 

trespass  in,  150. 

verderers  of,  26. 

Newham  [in  Baniburgli,  co.  Xorth- 
nml)©rland],  manor  of.  448. 

Newington,  co.  Oxford,  Derrick 
Prior,  Berewyk  in,  .341,  342, 
347,  450,  555,  556. 

by  Hythe,  Nowj^iiton  Ber- 
tram, CO.  Kent,  manor  of, 
21. 

See  Stoke  Newington. 

Newland,  Nenlond,  Newelond  [in 
Roxwell,  CO.  Essex],  600,  602. 

.Newelond    [in    Exliall],    co. 

Warwick,  20. 

Newniarclie,  Newomarclie,  Jolm, 
604. 

,  Tliomas,  Thomas  do,  knight, 

252,  337. 

Newnham,  Newenliam  [co.  Bed- 
ford], prior  of,  515. 

[co.  Gloucester],  89. 

Miu"ren,  Newenham,  Newen- 
liam Moryn  [co.  Oxford],  82, 
560,  561. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  559. 

Newnton,  Long,  NewjTiton,  co.  Wilts, 
175. 

Newport,  Neuport,  Isle  of  Wight, 
deed  dated  at,  110. 

,  Neuport  in  Wales  [co.  Mon- 
mouth], 66. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  lord  of.     See  Stafford, 

Ralph. 

, prison  in  castle  of,  66. 

Pagnell,     Neuport     Paynel, 

Neuportpa\Tiel,  co.  Bucking- 
ham, 527,  593. 

,  Caldecote  in,  593. 

Newsells,  Neusell,  Newsell  [in  Bark- 
way,  CO.  Hertford],  444. 

,  lord  of.     See  Scales,  Roger 

de. 

Newsham,  Neusom  [in  Brocklesby, 
CO.  Lincoln],  abbot  of,  500. 

Newstead,  Niewstede  [co.  Nortlmm- 
bcrland],  manor  of,  448. 

on  Ancholmo,  Newstede  by 

Ancolme  [co.  Lincoln],  prior 
of,  44. 

Newton,  Neuton,  599. 

[by  Kettlethorpe],  co.  Lin- 
coln, 388. 

Neuton     by     Wemme     [in 

Middle],  CO.  Salop,  607. 


Newton — cont. 

Ny weton  [in  Montacute,  co. 

Somerset],   461. 
,  Neuton  Sermavillo  [in  Yeo- 
vil], CO.  Somerset,  516. 
i      ,  Neweton    by    Sudbury,   co. 

Suffolk,  440. 

,  advowson  of,  538. 

,  manor   of,    173,    174, 

538. 
in    ^fackerfield,    Neuton    in 

Makerfeld,  co.  Lancaster,  500. 

Reigny,     Neweton    Reygne, 

1  CO.    Cumberland,    manor    of, 

I  146. 

Stacey,    Newenton,    Newton 

[in  Barton  Stacey],  co.  Hants, 

311. 

,  manor  of,  593. 

Toney,      Newenton      Tony, 

Touny,  co.  Wilts,  advowson 

of,  454. 

manor  of,  108,  468. 

Newton.  Neweton,  Andrew,  423. 
,  Richard  brother  of  Simon  de, 

430. 

, of  Boston,  567,  571. 

,  Simon  de,  430. 

Newtown      Linford,      LjTidonforth, 

Neuton,    co.    Leicester,    351, 

352. 
Blakeshay,    Blakeheye    in, 

351. 
Newynton.     See  Newington,  Newn- 
ton. 
Neylondes   fisshyngweres  in   Ching- 

ford     and     Edmonton     [cos. 

Essex  and  Middlesex],  109. 
Nicol,  John,  267. 
,  Thomas  son  of,  de  Burton, 

601. 
Nidd,  Nidde,  river,  co.  York,  justices 

to  observe  and  keep,  163. 
Niewstede.    See  Newstead. 
Nigris,  La\\Tence  de,  clerk,  481. 
Nitherham.    See  Gcorgeham. 
Niwenham.     See  Newenham. 
Nobat,  Nobet,  William,  99,  346. 
Noble,   Henrj',  of   Barking,   taimer, 

291. 

John,  of  Winchester,  283. 

,  Margery  wife  of  Henry,  291. 

noble,  gold,  weight  of,  303. 
Nobottle,  Newebotele  [in  Brington, 

CO.  Northampton],  assignment 

of  dower  in,  354. 

,  coiu-t  of,  355. 

places  named  in,  354. 

Noirmoutiers,     Nermoustre,    Poitou 

[dep.  Vend6e],  53. 


760 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Xoko,  Oku,  CO.  Oxford,  manor  of,  557. 
Nokton,  John,  farmer  of  subsidy,  133. 

Cf.  Notion. 

Noly,  Fi-ancis  Susse  do,  seaman  of 

Genoa,  509. 
Nonington,  co.  Kent,  Easol,  Esehole 

in,  108. 
Nony.     See  Xunney. 
Norburgh.     See  Nortliburgh. 
Norbury,  Northbmy  [co.  Stafford]. 

advowson  of,  447. 

,  Botiler  of,  446,  447,  448. 

,  deed  dated  at,  447. 

,  manor  of,  447. 

,  rector     of.       See    Tunstall, 

Tliomas. 
Norfolk,  Norffolk,  Nortffolk,  North 

folk,  county  of,  88,  171,  175 

181,  339,  346,  430,  459,  547 

605. 

,  coroners  of,  135,  236,  512. 

,  countess  of.    See  Brotherton. 

Mary  wife  of  Thomas  de. 

,  earldom  of,  375,  376. 

,  escheators  in,  262.    See  also 

Caiis,      Thomas  ;       Cressyng- 

ham,    John    de ;    Rokewode, 

John  ;    Weston,  John  de. 
,  guardians  of  the  peace  and 

justices  in,   329. 
.justices    of    assize    in,    175, 

360,  466. 
knights  of  the  sliire  of,  100, 

289,  299,  316,  476,  612. 
sheriff  of,  120,  135,  174,  177, 

179,  180,  181,  209,  236,  282, 

299,  329,  345,  384,  420,  425, 

468,  476,  488,  490,  512,  542, 

599.    See  also  Bacon,  Robert  ; 

Middelton,William  de ;  Thorp, 

Edmimd  de. 
Norhampton.    See  Northampton. 
Norhampton,  John  de,  322,  442. 
Norman,  Nicholas,  565. 
.......  Walter,  389. 

..'.....     Cf.  Normoun. 

Normancross,    Normancrosse,    hun- 
dred of,  CO.  Himtingdon,  140. 
Normandy,  260,  597. 

,  men  at  arms  to  serve  in,  185. 

,  ship  of,  27. 

Norman's    tenement    in    Woodliam 

Ferrers,  co.  Essex,  350. 
Nonnanton,  parson  of.     See  Segyn- 

don,  Robert  de. 

[co.  York],  431. 

,   .....  presentation  to  chxirch 

of,  431. 
Normanton,    Thomas,    of    London. 

599. 


Normoun,  William,  355. 

Cf.  Norman. 

Norreys,  Gilbert  le,  431,  432. 

coroner  in  Lancashire, 

528. 

,  Simon,  clerk,  563. 

,  parson  of  Caistor,  564, 

570. 

Nortfifolk.     See  Norfolk. 

North,  John,  105. 

,  of  Fleet  Street,  cord- 

wainer,  538. 

Northall,      Northale      [in      Eddies- 
borough,     CO.     Buckingham], 
447,  448. 
I     Northalle.     See  North  Hall. 
I     Northalle,    Robert   son    of    Richard 
del,  of  Leeds,  95. 

,  Roger  de,  del,  of  Leeds,  97, 

98. 

Northampton,  Norhampton  [co. 
Northampton],  1,  3,  608. 

,  biu'gesses  of,  summoned  to 

parliament,  101,  298. 
castle,  gaol  of,  13. 

,  mayor  and  bailiffs  of,   115, 

482. 

,  St.   Andrew's  priory,   prior 

of,  417. 

,  St.  John  the  Baptist's,  John 

master  of,  549. 

Northampton,  Norhampton,  arch- 
deacon of.  See  Askeby, 
William  de. 

,  earl  of.  See  Bohun,  Wil- 
liam de. 

Northampton,  Norhampton,  county 
of,  346,  441,  590,  596. 

,  escheator  in,  220.     See  also 

Broim,  Matthew  ;  Cameles, 
John ;  SejTnour,  Nicholas ; 
Warde,  Simon ;  Wideville, 
Richard. 

,  honoiu"  of  Peveril  in,  138. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  101, 

290,  298,  316,  476,  611. 

,    sheriff     of,      13,     41,     48, 

116,  133,  209,  298,  324,  328, 
403,  476,  485,  506,  546,  608, 
610. 

Northaston.     See  Aston. 

Northbarsham.    See  Barsham. 

Northburgh,  Norburgh,  Hugh  de, 
knight.  111,  532. 

,  Richard,  87. 

,  Roger  de,  bishop  of  Coven- 
try and  Lichfield,  241. 

Northbury.     See  Norbury. 

Northcadebury.     See  Cadbury. 

Northcreye.    See  Cray. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


751 


Northdon,  Roger,  98. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Devon,  100. 

Northclinesliale.    See  Ehnsall,  North. 
Northfleot,     Xorthflote,    co.     Kont, 

536. 
Northfolk.     See  Norfolk. 
Nortligravo,  Elizabotli  (atto  Rudyng) 
daiightor  of  \\'illiam  de,  136. 

,  William  do,   130. 

Northgrenhowe.    See  Greonhoe. 
North  Hall,  Northallo  in  Leeds  [co. 

York],  manor  of,  97. 
Northhole.     See  Hole. 
Northland,  Richard,  knight  of  Nott- 

mghamshire,   532. 
Nortlioland.    See  Holland. 
Northolmo.     See  Holme. 
Nortliorp.     See  Thorp  Hall. 
Northpark.    See  Park. 
Northpokenham.     See  Pickonham. 
Northpidole.    See  Piddle. 
North] )ikenham.     See  Pickenham. 
Northstoke.     See  Stoke. 
Northumberland,  coimty  of,  295,  446, 
550,  590,  600. 

arrays  in,  301,  362. 

,  coroners  of,  497. 

,  escheator   in.      See   Ergiun, 

William  ;    Mnsgrave,  Thomas 
de  ;  Vale,  William  de  la. 
.......  guardians  of  the  peace  and 

justices  of  oyer  and  terminer 
in,  114. 

,  inroads    of    the    Scots    in. 

156. 

,   knights    of    the    shire    of. 

290,  299,  316,  475,  612. 

,  sheriff  of,  115,  299,  338,  362. 

400,  475,  497,  502.     See  also 
Horsleye,  Richard  de. 

,  sxibsidy  in,  172,  537. 

Northweald     Basset,       co.      Essex, 
Woaldgullet,  tlie  Golet  in,  562. 
Northwich.     See  Norwico. 
Northwik,  Robert,  343. 

Cf.  Norwico. 

Northwode,  co.  Devon,  343. 
Northwode,  Agnes  (Beaufey)  daugh- 
ter of  Robert  de,  210. 

,  Joan    (Lencdale)     daughter 

of  Robert  de,  210. 

,  Robert  de,  knight,  210. 

,  William,  parson  of  Anderby. 

547. 
Northwold,  Robert,  323. 
Northwj-ke  park  [near  Great  Torr 

ington  ?],  CO.  Devon,  342. 
Norton    [co.  Derby],  manor  of,  567 

Bavant,    Skidemor,    Skyde- 

more,  co.Wilts,  chantry  at, 421. 


Norton  Bavant — cont. 

,    manor   of,    344,    421, 

422,  518. 
,   Emwoll,   Emowell  in, 

344. 

Davy.     See  Greens  Norton. 

under    Hamdon,    Hamodon, 

CO.  Somerset,  manor  of,  556. 
,  i^arson  of.    See  Raul jti, 

Robert. 
Norton,  Alice  wife  of  Jolm  de,  268. 

,  Jolm,  John  de,  508. 

,  bailiff  of  Oxford,  331. 

,   ....  son  of  John  de,  508. 

,  Philip,    vicar    of    St.    Giles 

without  Cripplegate,  337. 

,  Ralph,  knight,  542. 

,  Richard,  439,  441. 

,  Thomas    de,    of    Yorksliire, 

605. 
,  William  de,  eissessor  of  sub- 
sidy, 489. 
Norwich    [co.    Norfolk],     167,    324, 

478,  495,  598,  605. 
,  baihffs    of,    110,    302,    326, 

329,  447,  483.     See  Bloklyng, 

Simon  de ;  Oulton,  Jolui  de ; 

Silvestre,   Stophen. 
,  bishop    of.      See    Bateman, 

William  de ;  Percy,  Thomas ; 

Spencer,  Henry  le. 

,  bishopric  of,  136. 

,  ....,   keeper  of  temporali- 
ties of.     See  Clere,  Robert. 
,  bxrrgesses  of,  in  parliament, 

299. 

castle,  prison  of,  599. 

,  citizens  of,  302. 

, ,  named,  222. 

.....-.,  deed  acknowledged  at,  333. 

,  diocese  of,  251. 

,  distm-bances  at,  222,  302. 

,  Holy  Trinity  priory,   prior 

of,  175. 

mayor  of.    See  Virlj%  Roger. 

men  of,  348. 

St.  Peter  Mancroft,  Spynkes 

in,  598. 
Norwico,  Northwich,  Norwich,  Nor- 

wych,  Adam  de,  of  London, 

640. 

,  John  de,  412. 

,  .  .  .  .,  chaplain,  474. 

goldsmith,  of  London, 

1,  535. 
, ,  knicht,  340,  564,  565, 

569. 

, ,  of  Suffolk,  560. 

,  Jolm  son  of  Walter  son  of 

John  de,  knight,  412. 


752 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Nonvico — co7it. 

Margaret  wife  of  Walter  de, 

565. 

,  Ricliard  de,  Kichard,  82. 

,    escheator    in     Kent, 

271,  273,  359,  364,  378,  410. 
,....,     ....     in    Middlesex, 

412. 
,    ....   in  Sussex,  271, 

372,  405,  406. 

,  Roger  de,  358,  412. 

Tliomas  son  of  Walter  de, 

358. 

Walter  de,  358. 

William,  William  de,  291. 

,  cordwaincr,   605,  606. 

,  . .  .  . ,  of  London,  425. 

Cf.  Northwik. 

Nostell,  St.  Oswald  [in  Wragby,  co. 

York],  prior  and  convent  of, 

76,  85. 
notaries  public,  266. 
Note.    See  Notte. 
Notegate.     See  Neiidegate. 
Notfeld.     See  Nutfield. 
Notgrove,Nategrave  [co.  Gloucester], 

advowson  of,  124. 
Notloy,  Nottele  [in  Long  Crendon,  co. 

Buckingham],  abbot  of,   336. 
,  Black,    Black    Nottele    [co. 

Essex],  535. 
,  WTiite,   Wliite   Nottele    [co. 

Essex],  535. 
Notte,  Note,  John,  343. 

,  Philip,  586. 

,  Walter,  clerk,  214. 

Nottebourne,  Robert,  426. 

Nottele.     See  Notley. 

Notteley,  Alice  daughter  of  Richard 

de,  427. 

,  Richard  de,  427. 

Nottingham,  Notyngham  [co.  Nott- 
ingham], 174. 
,  burgesses  of,  summoned  to 

parliament,    101,  290,  298. 

,  farm  of,   524. 

,  mayor  and  bailiffs  of,  482, 

524. 
Nottingham,    county   of,    285,    334, 

548,  552. 

,  coroners  of,  237. 

,  escheators  in.    See  Toucher, 

Jolin  ;      Grenehull,    Tlaomas  ; 

Tw-yford,  Robert. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  100, 

289,  298,  316,  476,  612. 
,  sheriff  of,  41,  209,  237,  298, 

476,    605.      See   also  Gresley, 

John  de. 
,  taxation  in,  423, 


Notion,  John,  439,  441. 

Cf.  Nekton. 

Notyiigham.     See  Nottingham. 

Notyngliam,  Robert  de,  359,  586. 

William     de,     of     Bushey, 

lessee  of  mines,  194,  563. 

Noutone.     See  Nowton. 

novel  disseisin,  assizes  of,   360,  571. 

, postponement  of,  466. 

Novertoim,  Roger  atte,  356. 

Nowers,  Agnes  de,  166,  168. 

,  Grace  de,  166,  168. 

,  John,  John  de,  76,  77,  166, 

167. 

, ,  knight,  72,  309,  430. 

,  ....    son   of     John   de,   of 

Gayhiu"st,  75. 

,  Maud  wife  of  John,  76,  77. 

Nowton,  Noutone,  co.  Suffolk,  471. 

Nunney,  Nony,  co.  Somerset,  612. 

Nunton  [in  Maxey,  co.  Northamp- 
ton], 440. 

Niu*margh,  Ulrik  van,  483. 

Nutfield,  Notfeld  [co.  Siu*rey],  ad- 
vowson of,  335.  336. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  335,  336. 

,  manor  of,  335,  336. 

Nympton,  Bishop's,  co.  Devon, 
Rawston,  Reston  in,  339. 

Cf.  Wolf j'snymet. 

Nywedegate.     See  Neudegate. 

Nyweman,  John,  601. 

Nywent.    See  Newent. 

Nyweton.     See  Newton 


o 

Oadby,  Outheby,  co.  Leicester,  fee 

in,  274. 

?  Sudeby  [co.  Leicester],  288. 

Oakliam,     Okliam,     [co.     Rutland], 

castle  of,  496,  508. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  keeper  of.    See  Warde, 

Simon. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  parson   of  chapel  in. 

See  Stoke,  Nicholas  de. 

,  manor  of,  496,  508. 

Oakington.Hokyton  [co.  Cambridge], 

440. 
Oakley,    Chvirch,    Chirchokle,    Okie, 

Oklee,    CO.    Hants,    83,    195, 

196,  198,  200. 
,  Great,      Great      Okie,      co. 

Northampton,  224. 
oaks,  14,  26,  64. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


•53 


Oaksey,  Wokosoye,  co.  Wilts,  manor 
of,  496. 

Oakwell,  OkowoU  [near  Birstal,  co. 
York],  manor  of,  97. 

Oaro,  Ore  [co.  Kont],  585,  586. 

,  Logemesh  in,  586. 

oats,  33. 

rent  of,  350. 

Obdon,  Jolm  do,  clork,  96. 

Cf.  Upton. 

Ochani,  \^'illian^  de,  coroner  of  co. 
Warwick,  386. 

Ockbrook.  Okobrooke  [co.  Derby], 
565. 

,  deed  dated  at,  565. 

,  manor  of,  564,  565. 

Ockendon,  South,  South  Wokendon, 
Soutliwokendon,  South  Wok- 
yndon,South\vokyndon, South 
Wokyngdone,  co.  Essex,  deeds 
dated  at,  95,  97,  336. 

,  manor  of,  285. 

,  .  .  .  .,  parson  of.  See  Bur- 
ton, Robert  de. 

Odesthorp  [in  Letwell].  co.  York, 
377. 

Odiham,  Odyhani  [co.  Hants], 
"keeper  of  manor  of,  211. 

,  park  of,  211. 

,  warren  of,  211. 

Odin,  StepJien  son  of,  573. 

Od^■llam.     See  Odilxam. 

Offley,  Offeleye,  co.  Hertford,  Well- 
bury,  Welles  in,  272. 

Offwell,  Uffewille  [co.  Devon],  parson 
of.     See  Lillcsluill,   Richard. 

Ofliam,  Jolin  de,  spicer,  of  London, 
332. 

Ofwelle,  Andrew,  citizen  of  Canter- 
bury in  parliament,  613. 

Ogle,  Robert  de,  502. 

,  ....  son  of    Robert  son  of 

Robert  de,  502. 

oil,  152. 

Oilyer,  Ivo,  534. 

Oke.     See  Noke,  Ook. 

Okebourne,  William  de,  218. 

Okebroke.    See  Ockbrook. 

Okene,  Jolm  de,  356. 

Okenfokl.  John,   189. 

,  Thomas,  189. 

Oke  well.     See  Oakwell. 

Okham.     See  Oakham. 

Okie,  Oklee.    See  Oakley. 

Oldecastel.  John,  knight  of  the  shire 
of  Hereford,  476. 

Oldefeld,  John  do,  590. 

Olderomenoye.     See  Romney. 

Old  Ford.  Eldeforde  in  Stepney  [co. 
Middlesex],   186. 


Old  Hall,  Eldohallo  in  Great  Yeld- 
ham  [co.  Essex],  609. 

Oldhay,  Holdhay  [in  Moreworth], 
CO.  Kont,  137. 

Oldyngton,  Thomas  de,  clork,  99. 

Oliver,  Olyver,  Eleanor  wife  of  John, 
415. 

Henry,  549. 

,  John.  335,  415. 

,  the  yoimgor,  427,  544. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  (>oydon,  465. 

,  Thomas,  350. 

,  \Vilham,  skinner,  of  London, 

284. 

Ollerton,  Alverton  [in  Stoko  upon 
Torn,  CO.  Salop],  356. 

Olmstead,  Olmestede  [in  Shudy 
Camps,  CO.  Cambridge],  deed 
dated  at,  589. 

,  manor  of,  589. 

Olney,  co.  Buckingham,  441,  664, 
566,  579. 

,  deed  dated  at,  566. 

Olneye,  Jolm,  John  de,  593. 

,  . .  .  . ,  escheator  in  Bedford- 
shire, 151,  241,  245. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Buckingham- 
shire, 63,  118,  12.3,  150.  151, 
157,  166,  167,  232,  252,  253, 
257,  272. 

,....,  ....  in  Cambridge- 
shire, 123,  151,  157,  232,  245, 
266. 

,   .  .  .  . ,   ....  in  Huntingdon- 

sliire,  150,  151. 

,  mercliant,  of  Weston, 

332. 

,  William,  105. 

Olyve,  John,  89,  605. 

,  .  .  .  .,  the  younger,  317,  318. 

,  Thomas,   554. 

,  ....  son  of  John,  the  elder, 

of  Essex,  317,  318. 

Olyver.    See  Oliver. 

Omblour,  John,  of  Lewes,  425. 

Oneliouse,  Onehows,  co.  Suffolk,  Fin- 
borough  Hall,  Fenlialle  in,  46. 

Ongar  park,  Angrepark  by  the  Golet 
[locally  in  Stanford  Rivers], 
CO.  Essex,  562. 

Ook,  Oke,  Thomas  atte,  547,  565. 

,  . . . . ,    parson    of    Elmsett, 

578. 

Orby,  Orreby,  co.  Lincoln,  manor  of, 
379. 

Orcliard.  Jolm  le,  356. 

Orchardleigli,  Orcliardlegh.  co. 
Somerset,  manor  of,  273,  360. 

,  parson     of.       See     Gayner, 

Robert. 

CB  48 


7o4 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Ordo,  William  van,  ship  of,  412,  413. 
Ordowy,     Richard     do,     of     VV^ood 

Stroet,  484. 
Ore,     See  Oaro. 
Ore,  Robert  do,  593. 
OrewoU.     See  Orwell. 
Oreweye,  John  de,  coroner  of  Devon, 

8. 
Organ,  John,  309. 

citizen  of  London,  143. 

,  .  . . . ,  of  London,  540. 

Orgor,    John,   of   Melton   Mowbray, 

the  elder,  339. 
,     ,    tlie    younger, 

339. 
Orgrave,   Tliomas   do,   king's   clerk, 

61G. 
Orlaston,  John  son  of  Jolm  de,  378. 
Orleton,  Adam  de,  bishop  of  Win- 
chester, 134. 
Oime,  TJiomas,  of  Coventry,  324. 
Ormond,     earl     of.        See     Boteler, 

James  le. 
Ormsby,  co.  York,  Upsall,  Upsale  in, 

139. 
Orpington,     Orpynton    [co.     Kent], 

deeds  dated  at,  194. 
Orreby.     See  Orby. 
Orston,  CO.  Nottingham,  manor  of, 

394. 
Orton  Longueville,  co.  Huntingdon, 

Botolpli    Bridge,    Botilbrigge 

in,   92. 
Waterville,   Overton  Water- 

ville,  CO.  Huntingdon,  40,  46. 
Orwell,     Orewell,     co.     Cambridge, 

manor  of,  187. 

[CO.  Suffolk,  lost],  179. 

baihffs  of,  115. 

,  .  .  . . ,  keepeis  of  passage  at, 

337,  421,  422. 

, ,  navy  at,  177.  180,  181. 

, ,  port  of,  383. 

,  .  .  .  . ,    .  .  .  . ,  keepers  of  pas- 
sage in,  449. 
Osbarne,  William,  ship  of,  144. 
Osberne,  Oseberne,  Gosselin,  67. 
,  Jolm,    burgess    of    Taunton 

in  iJarliament,  298. 

,  Stephen,  324. 

Osbert,  John  son  of,  351. 
Osberton,  co.  Nottingham,  571. 

,  manor  of,  567,  571. 

Osberwj'k.     See  Rosebrough  ? 
Osborne,  Austeborne  Wode,  Isle  of 

Wight,  manor  of,  100. 
Oseberne.     See  Osberne. 
Osekyn.    See  Oskyn. 
Osemond,  William,  cordwainer,  540. 
Oseneye,    ^See  Osney. 


Osent,    Robert,    burgess    of    Lyme 

Regis  in  j)arliament,  298. 
Oseye,  wine  of,  510. 
Oskyn,  0.sekyn,  John,  98,  173,  174, 

309. 

,  citizen  of  London,  74. 

Osney,    Osenej-e    [by    Oxford,    co. 

Oxford],  abbey  of,  abbot  and 

convent  of,  591. 
,  prior  and  canons  of, 

498,  499. 

, ,  Thomas  abbot  of,  499. 

,  .  .  . . ,  vacancy  of,  498. 

Ospringe,       Osprenge,       Osprynge, 

Ospryngge,    co.    Kent,    235, 

585,  586. 

,  manor  of,   18.3,   184,   185. 

Ostia  and  Velletri,    cardinal  bishop 

of.    See  Albert!,  Audoyn. 
Oswaldkirk,  co.  York,  209,  373. 
Oswaldslow,  Oswoldeslowe,  co.  Wor- 
cester,   bailiff    of    liberty   of. 

See  Bromwych,  Richard. 
Otewy,  Richard,  427- 
O'Tiglicrnaoh,   CorneliiLS,   bishop  of 

Ardfert,  536. 
Otto,  Thomas  son  of,  526. 
Oudeby,  Thomas  de,  knight  cf  the 

shire  of  Leicester,  100. 

Cf.  Outeby. 

Ouergate.     See  Bm'gate. 

Oueston.    See  Overstone. 

Oulton,  Jolm  de,  bailiff  of  Norwich, 

222. 
Oundia,  Oundel  [co.  Northampton], 

deed  acknowledged  at,  610. 
Ousden,  Ouseden,  co.  Suffolk,  manor 

of,  54. 
Ouse,  Use,  river,  co.  York,  justices 

to  observe  and  keep,  163. 

,  pollution  of,  438. 

Ouseden.    See  Ousden. 
Oustyn,  Walter,  206. 

Cf.  Austyn. 

Outehester,  LTlcestre  [in  Bambm'gh, 

CO.  Northumberland],  fee  in, 

448. 
Outeby,  Richard  de,  parson  of  Tho- 

denham,  288. 

Cf.  Oudeby. 

outfangethef,  164. 

Outheby.     See  Oadbj'. 

Outliorp,  John,  John  de,  citizen  of 

Lincoln  in  parliament,   299. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Lincoln,  423. 

Outw-ell  [co.  Norfolk],  manor  of,  576, 

582. 
oven,  right  to  set  up,  296. 
Overay.    See  Ovorey. 
overcharge  of  pasture,  1,  51,  57,  382. 


GENERAL    IXDEX. 


766 


Overdorwond.     See  Darwen. 
Overdos,  Kobort,  biirgcss  of  Appleby 

in  parliainout,  299. 
Overoy,  Ovoray,  Jolin,  83. 

,  . .  .  .,  of  London,  591. 

Overliall  in  Lavonliain,  co.  Suffolk, 

manor  of,  272. 
Overhainnio.     See  Goorgohani. 
Overland,    Overlond    [in    Ash,    co. 
Kent],  bailiffs  of  manor  of,  52. 
Overstone,  Oneston,  co.  Xortliamp- 

ton,  manor  of,  374. 
Overton,  co.  Hants,   195,   19G,   198, 
200. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  Polhampton  and  Qiiid- 

hampton  in,  195,  196,  198. 

,  Cold,  Coldoverton,  manor  of, 

374. 

,  Market,      Marketesoverton, 

Marketoverton,  co.   Rutland, 
73,  397,  446. 

,  . .  . . ,  manor  of,  105. 

See  Orton. 

Overton,     Joan     (Bruyn)     wife     of 
Thomas  do,  56,  62,  285. 

,  Simon  do,  540. 

Overvvalop.     See  Wallop. 
Ovyng,  Henry,  595. 

,  John  de,  clerk,  466. 

Owston,    CO.     York,     Carcroft    and 

Skellow,  Skollale  in,  471. 
Oxborough,  Oxeburgli  [co.  Norfolk], 

413. 
oxen,  3,  137.  221,  243,  257,  380,  573. 

,  theft  of  413. 

Oxondcn.    See  Oxenton. 
Oxenford,     Robert    de,     goldsmith, 
174,  323. 

,••••,  parson  of  ICnipton,  339. 

Oxenton,   Oxcnden,   co.   Gloucester, 
manor  of,   73,   396,  446,  468, 
469. 
Oxford  [oo.  Oxford],  assize  of  bread 
and  ale  at,  216. 

,  bailiffs    of,    101,    483.      See 

also  Gibbes,   John  ;    Norton, 
John. 

,  burgesses  of,  siunmoned  to 

parhament,     101,     290,     298, 
613. 

castle    of.    mills,     m.eadows 

etc.  pertaining  to,  523,  524. 

earl  of.     See  Veer,  Thomas 

de. 

,  friars    preachers    of,    prior 

and  convent  of,  517. 

mayor    of,    101,    483.      See 

also  Hertwell.  John. 

,  imiversity  of,  alien  spies  in, 

57. 


Oxford,  vuiiversity  of — cont. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  chancellor  and  scholars 

of,  216. 
i      ,  servant  of  student  of, 

robbed,  238,  512. 
Oxford,  comity  of,  80,  339. 
,  coroners  of,  49,  135,  162, 216, 

233. 
,  oscheator  in.      See  Aunsel, 

William  ;  Evesham,  Jolm  de  ; 

Froillo,  John. 

,  issues  of,  524. 

ju-stices  of  assize  in,  466. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  101, 

288,  298,  316,  476,  611. 

,  repair  of  bridges  in,  592. 

,  sheriff  of,    11,   41,   49,    117, 

135,  157,  162,  209,  216,  233, 

238,  298,  404,  476,  523,  592. 
Oxliill,  Oxliilvo,  CO.  Warwick,  farmer 

of  nianor  of.      See  Blockelo, 
J  John  de. 

Oxton,  John  de,  552. 
Oystermouth,      Ojstresmouth      [co. 
I  Glamorgan],     castle    of,    123, 

i  124. 


!  P 

Pabenham,  Elizabeth  wife  of  Law- 
rence de,  3. 

,  LawTence    do,    3. 

,   .  .  .  .,  knight,  606. 

Cf.  Papenham. 

Paddebury,  Padbm-y,  Alice  wife  of 
John  de,  104,  105,  322. 

,  John,  John  de,  104,  105. 

Paddington,   Padjiigdene  [in  Abin- 
I  ger,  CO.  Siurey],  443. 

'      ,  manor  of,  437. 

Paddokthorp.     See  Pallethorp. 
Padenliale,  Robert,  82. 
Padyngdene.     See  Paddington. 
Padyngton,  Henry,  clerk,  of  London, 

470. 
Page,  John,  517. 

, controller  of  works  at 

Gravesend,  167. 

,  searcher  of  forfeitures 

j  in  the  river  Thames,  27,  28. 

'      Richard,  194. 

j      ,  .  .  .  . ,     son     of     Sara     atte 

I  Brygge  of  Mattersey,  239. 

,  Simon,  355. 

Pagham,  Pageham,  co.  Sussex,  deed 
dated  at,  76. 


756 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Faghani — cont. 

la  Soteue  in,  76. 

,  Stapele  in,  76. 

Pagleshain,  Paklesham  in  Rocliford 

Imndred     [co.     Essex],     deed 

dated  at,  586. 

,  South  Hall,  Suthalle  in,  586. 

Pagrave,  John,  282. 

Painscastle,     Castruni    MatilV,    [co. 

Radnor],  123. 
Pake,  Agnos,  349. 

,  John,  349. 

,  William,  349. 

Pakeleshani.     See  Paklesham. 
Pakeman,       Pakemon,       Patmane, 

Roger.  1. 

,  Simon,  350,  486,  552. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Leicestershire,  570. 

Pakenham,  Henry  do,  181. 

,  Joan  wife  of  Richard  de,  575, 

582. 

,  Jolm,  323. 

,  Richard  do,  575,  582. 

Paklaardy,  Jolin,  79. 
Paklesham.     See  Paglesham. 
Paklesham,     Pakolesham,     WiUiam 

de,  586. 
,    coroner    for    Essex, 

162. 
Pakyn,  Walter,  174. 
Palavoisin,  Palavoisin,  merchant  of 

Genoa,  233. 
Paleiser,  John,  351. 
Palet,  Robert,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Gloucester,   289. 
Pallethorp,  Paddokthorp  [in  Bolton 

Percy],  co.   York,  manor  of, 

229,  "234. 
Pallingswick,      Paljmgeswiche       [in 

Acton],  CO.  Middlesex,  deeds 

dated  at,  536. 

,  manor  of,  535. 

palm  barley,  46. 
Palmer,  James,  46. 

,  John,  262,  352. 

,  burgess  of  Maldon  in 

parliament,  477. 

, ,  of  Butleigh,  535. 

,  Lawrence,  of  Northampton, 

13. 
,  Nicholas,  bm'gess  of  Bridg- 
north in  parliament,  290,  298. 

,  Richard,  323, 

,  Thomas,  546,  547. 

,  Walter,  rector  of  Greenford, 

103. 
,  William,  citizen  of  London, 

457. 
,  . . . . ,  escheator  in  Leicester- 
shire, 273,  374,  397. 


Palmer,  William,  escheator — cont. 
, in  Warwickshire, 

374,  486. 

,  of  London,  291. 

PaljTigeswiche.    See  Pallingswick. 
Paniber,  Pambere  forest  [co.  Hants], 

keeper    of.      See    Poynynges, 

I.,uke  de. 
Panes,  John,  of  Pnu-igge,  95. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Wick,  95. 

,  Thomasia  wife  of  John,  95. 

Pangdean,  Penggeden  fin  PojTiingH], 

CO.  Sussex,  21. 
Pantecost,  John,  the  king's  moneyer, 

306. 
Paponliam,  John,  536. 

Cf.  Pabenham. 

paper,  325,  328. 

Pappeworth,   WilUam  de,  escheator 

in    Cambridgesliire,    274. 
Papyngeye,  Robert,  citizen  of  Nor- 
wich, 222. 
Parcare.     See  Parker, 
parishes,   assessment  of  subsidy  by. 

See  under  Taxation. 
Park,  Northpark  [in  Penshurst],  co. 

Kent,    manor    of,    182,    183, 

184,  185. 
Parke,  John,  343,  450,  555,  556. 

,  William  atte,  492. 

Parker,  Parcare,  Jolm,  356,  598. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Olney,  566. 

,  Nicholas,  of  Hastings,  baron 

of  the  Cinque  Ports,  299. 
,  Richard,  controller  of  works 

at  King's  Langley,    142. 

,  Roger,   of  Brentwood,   548. 

Parkliall,    Parklialle   in   Morton    [in 

Ashover],   co.   Derby,   manor 

of,  509. 
Parksokene.     See  St.   Stephen's. 
Paries,  Ralpli,  312. 
parhament,  6,  7,  9,  10,  25,  31,  32,  38, 

44,  93,  94,  178,  224,  241,  255, 

286,  287,  297,  306,  314,  317, 

320,  377,  378,  380,  527. 
,  burgesses  of,  101,  290,  297, 

316,  476-477,  612-613. 

,  corvncU  of,  482. 

,  knights    of,    100-101,    288- 

289,  316,  475-476,  611. 

,  petitions  laid  before,  608. 

,  proclamation    of    ordinance 

of,  609. 
summons   to,    83,    84,     100, 

101,  203,  204,  462,  463,  464, 

586,  587. 
,  .  . . . ,  of  persons  discreet  in 

shipping,  587. 
See  Ireland,  statutes. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


757 


Pfu-tney,  Partonay,  co.  Lincoln,  379. 
Partrich,  Patrioli^  Richard,  349. 
,  Rogor,  75,  7G,  142,  143,  319, 

554. 
Parvyng,  Adam,  laiiglit  of  the  sliire 

of  Cxunberland,  CI 2. 
Parys,  Robert,  Robert  do,  266,  493. 
,  ....,    dianiborlam    of    tho 

prince    of    Wales    in    Nortli 

Wales,  154. 
Pasford,    John,    bui'gcss    of    Dart- 
mouth in  parliament,  298. 
Passavant,  Walter,  citizen  of  Dublin, 

246,  266. 
Passolowo,     John,     cordwaincr,     of 

London,   544. 

,  Ralpli,  605. 

Robert   de,   coroner   of   co. 

York,  235. 

,  Wilham,  seaman,  406. 

Paston,  CO.  ^Northampton,  19. 
,  Plaxton     in     Glendale     [in 

KirknoMton,     co.     Northmn- 

berland],  manor  of,  448. 
pasture,  overcharge  of,  1,  51,  57,  382. 
Pateshiill.    See  Pattisliall. 
Pateshull,  Thomas,  cliaj^lain,  538. 
Pathorn,  Nicliolas  de,  386,  387. 
Patmane.     See  Pakeman. 
Patrich.    See  Partrich. 
Patristell.     See  Fistral. 
Pattisliall,  Pateshull,  co.  Northamp- 
ton, manor  of,  563. 
Paul,  CO.  Cornwall,  Mousehole,  Mose- 

hole,    Mouse  Hole,  Mousholc 

in,  264,  449,   558. 
Paul,  Lewis,  merchant  of  Provence. 

26. 
Paulerspury,       co.       ISTorthampton. 

Heathencote,    Hejinondcote 

in,  47. 
Pauncefot,  Ricliard,  543. 
Paunton.    See  Ponton. 
Pavely,      Pavele,      Pavelee,      John. 

kniglit,  77. 

,  Thomas,  48. 

Walter,  Walter  de,  41. 

, ,    knight,    42,    74,    75, 

78,  280,  281,  429,  431. 
Pavy,  Thomas,  burgess  of  Warwick 

in  parliament,  290,  298. 
Pawlett,     CO.     Somerset,     AValpole, 

WaldepuUe  in,  367. 
Payforer,   Fulk,   clerk  of    works  at 

Queensborough,  144. 
Payn,  Jolm,  587,  605. 
armourer,  of  London, 

86,  474,  475.  573. 

Peter,  of  Essex,  1 76. 

,  Simon,  610. 


Payn — cont. 

,  Thomas,  of  BaLsham,  85. 

William,    ))arson    of    Buck- 

wortli.  111. 

See  Fitz  Payn. 

Paynell,  Jolm,  248,  249. 

,  ....,   of   Boothby   Pagnell, 

92. 

,   of  Ivjiaptoft,  92. 

,  .  .  .  .,        of        Quarrington, 

knight  of  the  shire  of  Lincoln, 
289,  316. 

Payon,  William,  420. 

Pays,  John,  585,  586. 

Peakirk,  Peykirko  [co.  Northamp- 
ton], 405. 

peas,  33,  257,  380,  388. 

Peasemoro,  Pasemere,  co.  Berks, 
manor  of,  557.- 

Peasenliall,  Pesenhale,  co.  Suffolk, 
manor  of,  375. 

Peatling,  Petlyng,  co.  Leicester,  fee 
in,  274. 

Pebmarsh,  I'ebenerssh  [co.  Essex], 
fee  in,  492. 

Pecche,  Ellen  wife  of  John,  186, 
191. 

John,  343. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  alderman  of   London, 

185,  186,  191,  239,  465. 

,   .  .  .  . ,     citizen    of     London, 

112,  580. 

,  . .  . . ,    draper    of     London, 

80,  81. 

, ,  knight,  430. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  tho  shire  of 

Warwick,  612. 

,  Ralph,  coroner  of  co.  War- 
wick, 235. 

,  Simon,   99. 

,  W^illiam  son  of  John,  alder- 
man of   London,   442. 

Pechewyk  [near  Broadwater,  sub- 
merged .?],  CO.  Sussex,  407. 

Peckebrigge.     See  Pekbrugge. 

Peckham,  Pekliam  [co.  Kent],  81. 

,  East,  Estpecham  [co.  Kent], 

Robert   vicar  of,    137. 

,  West,      Westpecham,       cc. 

Kent,  manor  of,  137. 

Pecok,  Edmund,  566. 

,  Thomas,  of  Pentlow,  329. 

Pedewardyn,  Walter  de,  knight, 
86. 

Pedi'o  tho  Cruel.     See  Peter. 

Peek,  Peke,  Agnes,  350. 

,  John,  of  Chichester,  332. 

,  Nicholas,  452,  453. 

,  William  de,  55,  518. 

Peito,  Peitou.    See  Peyto. 


758 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Pekbrugge,   Peckebrigge,  Pekbrigge, 
Pekbryggo,  Pokkebrogge, 

Pokktjbriiggo ,  P(  kkc  -.  bryggf • , 
Pykbriggt!,  John,  Joliu  d' . 
ki.ight.  88,  99,  182,  183,  184, 
185,  277. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  tho  shire  of 

Middlesex,  289,  299,  316,  612. 
Poke.     See  Peek. 

Pekeringlith.     See  Pickering  Lythe. 
Pekliam.     See  Peckliam. 
Pekham,   James  do,   kniglit   of   the 

shire  of  Kent,  476. 
Pekkebregge,    Pekkebrugge,    Pekke- 

brygge.     See  Ptkbrugge. 
Pelham.     See  Brent  Pelliam. 
Pelham,   Jolm  de,   clerk,    105,    106, 
346. 

,  Thomas,   coroner  of  Essex, 

371. 
PelliOTis,  William  do,  de  la,  356. 
Pelle,  Robert,  vicar  of  Birton,  419, 
420. 

,  Wmiam,  419,  420. 

Pelsone,  William,  351. 
Pembrigge.     See  Pembrugge. 
Pembroke,  Pembrocli,    countess    of. 
See   Sancto   Panio,   Mary  de. 

,    earl   of.       See    Hastynges, 

John ;    Hastynges,  Lawrence 
de. 
Pembrugge,  Pembrigge,  Penbrugge, 
Fulk  de,  knight,  15. 

,  .....  . .  .  .,  of  Salop,  104. 

,  John  son  of  Henry  de,  360. 

.Richard  de,    132,   359,   360. 

,  .  .  .  . ,    chamberlain    of    the 

king's  household,  287. 

,  . . . . ,    constable    of    Dover 

castle  and  warden  of  the 
Cinque  Ports,  154,  166,  204, 
264,  299,  308. 

,    .  .  .  .,  keeper    of    the    New 

Forest,  26. 

, ,  knight,  168,  187,  188, 

192,  596. 

,  Robert  de,  of  Salop,  104. 

Pempel,  Stephen,  dean  of  Wells,  86. 

Penbrugge.    See  Pembrugge. 

Pene,  Walter,  merchant  of  Bristol, 

30. 
Penereth.     See  Penrith. 
Peneshurst.     See  Penshiu-st. 
Penggeden.     See  Pangdean. 
Penhargarth.     See  Penhergard. 
Penhele,  Penhel  [in  Egloskerry],  co. 

Cornwall,  manor  of,  86. 
Penhergard,  Penhargarth,  John,  560. 

,  Walter,  knight,  91. 

Penkrich,   John,    324. 


Ponn,      Penne,      co.      Buckingliam, 

manor  of,  375,  376. 
PermeniLS  do  Ponryn,  52. 
Penrith,  P(!n(  relh  fco.  Cumb.-rland], 

bailiffs  of,  482. 
Ponryn  [co.  Cornwall],  52. 
Peiu'yn,  BrasgoniLS  de,  52,  53. 

,  Cliynibwellus  de,  52. 

,  Ponnenus  do,  52. 

Penshiu-st,     PcTiesliurst,     Ponshorst, 

[CO.  Kent],  90,  116,  182,  183, 

184,  185. 
deeds    dated    at,    182,    183, 

manor    of,    182,    183,    184, 

185. 

,  rector    of.      See    Harewell, 

VVilliam. 

,  Ensfield,  Yenesfeld  in,  183, 

184,  185. 

,  Harden,  Haiiedenne  in,  116. 

,  Park,    Northpark    in,     182, 

183,  184,   185. 
Pentelowe,  John  de,  597,  605. 
Pentlow,  Pentelowe,  co.  Essex,  329. 
Penton  Mewsey,  Penyton,  co.  Hants, 

manor  of,  196,  200. 
Penwortham   [co.    Lancaster],   prior 
of,  280,  307. 

,  Farrington,    Farj-ngton    in, 

456. 
Penyard,    Penyj^ard    [in    Ross,    co. 

Hereford],  park  of,  487. 
Penyton.     *See  Penton. 
Penyyard.     See  Penyard. 
Pepir,  William,  351. 

Cf.  Piper. 

pepper,  365. 

,  rent  of,  205,  315,  349,  351, 

407,  548. 
Pepper     Harrow,     Piperharwe,     co. 
Surrey,  119. 

,  manor  of,  119,  120. 

Percehay,  Perceay,  Persay,  Persehay, 
Henry,  Henry  de,  69,  82,  86, 
276,    439,  441,  507,  603,  604. 

Cf.  Percy. 

Perceval,    William,    the   king's   Ser- 
jeant, 278. 
Perching,   Perchyng  [in  Edburton], 

CO.  Sussex,  manor  of,  21. 
Percok,  Perekok,  John,  187. 

, ,  of  Whitechapel,  582. 

Percy,  Henrv  de,  204,  296,  300,  312, 
338,  361,  362,  463,  465, 

,  .  .  .  . ,  justice  to  preserve  the 

peace  in  the  East  Riding  of 
Yorkshire,   541. 

, ,  knight,  109. 

, ,lordde,  445,  451,  483, 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


769 


Percy — cont. 

,  Margaret  wil'o  of  Henry  do, 

394,  395. 

,  Steplien,  flerk,  680. 

,  TJionias,  bisliop  of  Norwich, 

136.    . 

William,  17. 

,  .  .  .  .,  ktiight  of  the  sliire  of 

York,  Gil. 

Cy.  IV-nehay. 

Pere,  Nicliolas  Mantaffe  de,  seaman 

of  Gronoa,  509. 

Cf.  Pores. 

Perokok.     See  Percok. 

Perel,  Walter,  343. 

Perers,     Pereres,     Pereris,     Porrers, 

Perriors,  Alice,  Alice  de,  344, 

440,     473,     584,      585,      592, 

606. 

,  Richard  de.  465. 

Peres,    Martin,    de    Merande,    ship- 
master, envoy,  112. 
,  Tliomas,    coroner    of    Rut- 
land, 275. 
Cf.      Fit  z     Peres,     Pere, 

Piers. 
Perewyche.     See  Perwjch. 
Perigord,  Talleyi-and,  Talayrand  de, 

cardinal    bishop    of    Albano, 

424,  578. 
Pei'kyns,  William,  356. 
Perle,  Perlee,  Isabel  wife  of  Thomas, 

69. 

,  Thomas,  69. 

,  Walter,  Walter  de,  82,  330, 

333. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Dorset,  290,  298,  316. 

,  William,  543. 

Cf.  Pui-ley. 

Perlore,  Jolm,  343. 

Permay,    Agnes    wife    of    John,    of 

Boston,  130. 

,  John,  532. 

,  William,  532. 

Perot,     Perrot,     Beatrice      wife     of 

Re>niold,  166,  196. 
,  Thomas,     coroner     of     co. 

Kent,  50. 

'Walter,  350. 

Perran-Zabiiloe,    co.    Cornwall,    Ty- 

warnhaile,  Trerwarnaille, 

Trewamaille,  Trewamayl  in, 

86,  558. 
Perrors.     See  Pei'ors. 
Porridge    [in    Kemi,    co.    Devon]  ? 

Pnirigge,  95. 
Perrot.     See  Perot. 
Perry    Barr,    Pirie    and    Barre,    co. 

Stafford,  manor  of,  454. 


Perry — cotit. 

Wood,  Pirye,  Pyrie  by  Wor- 
cester    [in     Worcester],     co. 

Worcester,    manor    of,     108, 

109,  453,  454. 
Persay,  Persehay.    See  Percehay. 
Pershedo,     Nicholas,     verderer     of 

Buckliolt  forest,  416. 
Pershoro,       co.     Worcester,     Wyke 

Biirnel,    Wyko  in,    108,    463, 

454. 
Perslmte,  John  do,  of  Wilts,  192. 
Persones,  Stephen,  356. 
Persounes,  John  atto,  549. 
Perstedo,  Humpln-ey  de,  492. 
Pert,  Robert,  knight,  112. 
Portico,  Geoffrey  de,  573. 
,  Maud  wife  of  Geoffrey  do, 

573. 
Perton,  John  de,  knight,    escheator 

in  Salop,  418. 
,  . . .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Stafford- 
shire, 418,  499. 
,     . . . . ,     ....     in    the 

marches  of  Wales,  418. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Stafford,  289,  298,  316. 

,  Leo  de,  207. 

Cf.  Pirj-ton. 

Pertout,  Richard,  205. 

,  Robert,  205. 

Perun,  Jolm,  534. 

Perusyne,  Dynus,  409. 

,  merchant  of  Florence, 

450. 
Perwych,   Perewj'-che,   Amy   (Malle- 

sores)  wife  of  Roger,  81. 

,  Roger,  81,  331. 

Perye,  Alice  wife  of  Walter  de  la, 

366. 

,  Walter  de  la,  366. 

,  William  son  of  Walter  de  la, 

366. 

Cf.  Pirie. 

Peryton.    See  Pi r ton. 
Pesenhale.     See  Peasenhall. 
Peshale,  Adam  do,  162,  163. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Salop,  612. 
,  Elizabeth  (ap  Rees)  wife  of 

Adam  de,  162,  163. 
Peter,  king  of  Spain,  112,  488. 
Peterborough     [co.     Northampton], 

405. 

,  abbot  of,  267,  405. 

Petherton,     Soiith,     Southpcderton, 

Southpedirton,  co.   Somerset, 

29,  31,  254. 

,   manor  of,  29,  31. 

I     Petlyng.    See  PeatUng. 


760 


GENERAL    IXDEX. 


Petlyug,    William,    coroner    of    co. 

VVorcestor,  221. 
Petrewicli,  William,  594. 
Petro,    Poter   Viang  do,   seaman  of 

Gt'noa,  509. 
Petro  Dynt),  James  de,  of  Florence, 

attorney     of     merchants     of 

Venice,  216,  217. 
Pety,  John,  of  Staffordshire,  562. 
Potyt,  William,  209,  373. 
Pevensey,    Poveneseye,    co.    Sussex, 

rape  of,  593. 
Peverel,    Peverell,    P«n'eril,    honoui' 

of,   138,  166,  168,  252,  397. 
Pe\"erel,    Povtrell,   Andi-ow,   kniglit. 

174,  185. 
,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Sussex,  476. 
,  Margaret     (de     Courtenay), 

wife  of  Thomas,  393. 

,  Thomas,  393,  560. 

,  Walter,  331. 

Peykirke.     See  Peakirk. 

Peyntour,      Hugh,      merchant      of 

Vannes,  58. 
Peytevpi,  Brice,  189. 

,  Jolm,  243,  244. 

,  Thomas,   knight,    242,    244. 

,  .  .  .  . ,      of     the     house     of 

Crutched  Friars  by  the  Tower 

of  London,  242,  243,  244. 
Peyto,  Peito,  Peitou,  Peji;ou,  Jolm, 

John  de,  364,  365,  525. 

, ,  knight,  334,  469. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  .....  chief  steward  of 

Ralph  earl  of  Stafford,   451. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  kniglit  of  the  shii'e  of 

Warwick,  100,  288,  298,  316. 

, ,  the  elder,  271,  364. 

,  William  de,  334. 

PheUp,  Jolm,  551. 

,  WiUiam,  493. 

Pliilipot,  Phelipot,  Phelippot,  Philip- 
pot,  Joan  wife  of  Jolin,  582. 

583. 

,  Jolm,  328,  456. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  143, 

210,  584. 
,....,     ....    in    parliament, 

299. 
,  .  .  . .,  merchant  of  London. 

582,  583. 

, ,  of  London,  320,  325, 

sheriff     of     London, 

470,  471,  531,  584. 
Philippa,  queen,   66,   104,   105,   117, 

118,   131,   132,   139,   140,   15.5, 

164,  211,  212,  260,  394,  461. 
,  attorney  of.    See  Ravenser, 

Richard  de. 


Philippa,  queen — cont. 

auditors     of      acooimts     of 

ministers  of,  64,  212. 

letters  patent  of,  25. 

,  receiv(!r  of  moneys  of.     See 

Ravenser,  Richard  de. 

,  rights  of,  in  Hainault,  314. 

rolls  of  accounts  of  ministers 

of,  212. 
,  yeoman     of.       See    Hadle, 

Stephen  de. 
Pliilippot.     See  Philipot. 
Phip,  William,  492. 
Piacenza,     Plesencia    [Italy],     mer- 
chants of,  230,  233,  234. 
Picard,  Pycard,  Pykard,  Hugh,  439. 

,  Nicholas,  492,  493. 

Pichermaker,    Simon,    of    Cornwall, 

53. 
Pickenham,  North,  Northpekenham, 

Northpikenham,  co.  Norfolk, 

318. 
Pickering       Lythe,       Pekerjniglith, 

Pikeryng    forest,     co.    York, 

86. 
,  verderer    of.      See    Playce, 

William. 
Picot,  Pycot,  Pyko^,  Bartholomew, 

Icnight,  347. 

,  James,   189. 

,  John,   83. 

Piddington,    PidjTiigton,   co.   North- 
ampton, 19. 
Piddle,  Pidele,  Pydele  [in  Fladbury], 

CO.  Worcester,  manor  of,  108, 

453,  454. 
,  North,  Northpidele,  co.  Wor- 
cester, manor  of,  375. 
Pidiy-ngton.     See  Piddington. 
Piel.     See  Vye\. 

Pierre,  Forest  de,  a  Lombard,  45,  46. 
Piers,  John,  merchant  of  Bristol,  11. 

See  Fitz  Piers,  Peres. 

Pieshale,  Pissale,  John  de,  clerk,  500. 
,  .  .  .  . ,    parson    of    Alderton, 

171. 
,  .  . . . ,    parson    of    Cawston, 

547. 
pigs.    See  swine. 
Pikeryng.     See  Pickering. 
Pilche,  Robert,  51. 
Pilet,  Pylet,  Wilham,  306,  472. 
pilgrimage,  27. 
Pilton,  CO.  Devon,  Raleigh,  Ralegh 

in,  523. 
,  Pilketon  [co.  Northampton], 

advowson  of,  111. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  manor  of.  111,  440. 

Pinchbeck,  Pyncebek  [co.  Lincoln], 

244. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


^61 


Pincliiiigthorpo,    Pynchentliorp    [co. 

York],  139. 
Pinley,    Pyuloy    by    Covontre,    co. 

Warwick,  430. 

,  manor  of,  430. 

Pinvin,    I'ymlevon,    co.    Worcester, 

441. 
Pipe,    Pypo,   Joj-co   wife   of   James, 

370. 
,  Tliomas      do,      coroner      of 

StafTordsliiro,  8,  414. 
Piper,  Nicliolas,  350. 

Cf.  Pepir. 

Piperliarwe.     See  Pepper  Harrow. 
PipwcU,    Pippewell   [co.   Northamp- 
ton],   abbot    of,    collector    of 

clerical  subsidy,  260. 
piracy,  324,  325,  328. 
Pirie.    See  Perry  Barr. 
Pirie,  Pyrie,  William,  348,  349. 

Cf.  Perye. 

Piriton.     See  Pirton,  Pirj^on,  Pm-- 

ton. 
Pirnougli,    Pirnaw'e,    Pyrnawe,     co. 

Norfolk,  manor  of,  540,  541. 
Pirton,  Peryton,  Piriton,  co.  Oxford, 

manor  of,  496,  505,  506. 
,  Piriton,  co.  Worcester,  ad- 

vowson  of,  454. 

,  manor  of,  108,  468. 

Piryo.     See  Perry  Wood. 

Piryton,    Piriton,    PjTiton,    Richard 

de,  69,  108,  123,  442. 
,   clerk,   208,    322,   453, 

454,  455,  549. 

Cf.  Perton. 

Pisford,  CO.  Nortliampton,  87. 
Pishill,  CO.  Oxford,  Stonor  in,   197, 

200. 
Pissale.     See  Pieshale. 
Pitfold,  Putfold  [in  Frensham],  co. 

Surrey,  344,  421. 
plague,  the,  18,  29. 
Plaitford,     Pleyteiord,     co.     Wilts, 

dow-er  assigned  at,  196. 

,  manor  of,  196. 

platters,  579. 

Plavmke,    Elizabeth    (de    Bermyng- 

ham)  daughter  of  William  de 

la,  406. 
.,....,  Katlierine     (de      Bermyng- 

ham)  daughter  of  William  de 

la,  406. 

,  William  de  la,  406. 

Plaxton.     See  Paston. 
Playce,  John,  knight,  564,  565.  569. 
,  Wilham,  verderer  of  Picker- 
ing forest,   51. 
Playson,    Tankard,    shipmaster,    of 

Sluys,   169. 


Pledour,  John,  33. 

Plescy,  Hugli  de,  363. 

Plesencia.     Sec  Piacenza. 

Piesjaigton,  Robert  de,  326,  576,  577. 

Ploytcford.     See  Ph^itford. 

Picket,  Nioliolas,  592. 

Plomor,  Wilham,  of  London,  470. 

Ploufeld.     See  PloiLseJd. 

plough  horses,  137. 

shares,  rent  of,  349,  350. 

Plouseld,   Ploufeld,  John,  John  do, 

chaplain,  102. 

, ,  clerk,  277,  535,  536. 

Pltimley,  William  de,  572. 
Phumnuth.     See  Plymouth. 
Plumpton,  Robert  de,  laiight,   572. 
Plymmouth,  John,  321. 
Plymouth,     Plununutli,    Plynunuth 

[co.  Devon],  51,  270. 
bailiffs  of,  51,  110,  115,  201. 

264,  371,  444. 
,  collectors    of    customs    at, 

275. 

,,  mayor  of,  51,  110. 

,  men  of,  488. 

,  port  of,  65. 

,  .  .  . . ,  keepers  of  passage  in, 

449. 

,  ships  of,  30,  53. 

Plympton,  co.  Devon,  bm-gess  of,  in 

parliament,  298. 
Plj'mtree,  Plymptre,  co.  Devon,  ad- 

vowson  of,  393. 
Pobliam.     See  Popliam. 
Poche,  Simon,  coroner  of  co.  Worces- 
ter, 221. 
Podeshetlie.    See  Pudsey. 
Podmor,   Wilham,   of   Staffordshire, 

326. 
Pokeswell,  John,  of  Dorset,  596. 
Pokulchiirclie.    See  Pucklochiu*ch. 
Poldi-e,  Isabel  de,  585,  586. 
Pole.    See  Poole. 
Pole,  Anne  daughter  of  Michael  de 

la,  556,  557. 

Edmxmd  de  la.  557,  558. 

,  ....  son  of  William  de  la, 

333,  334. 

,  John  de  la,  93,  172,  337. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight,  66. 

,  .....  of  Ashborne,  95. 

,  John  son  of  William  de  la, 

knight,  569. 
,  Katherine  wife   of   William 

de  la,  the  elder,  333,  334. 

,  Michael  de  la,  536. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  ktiight,  457,  555-558. 

,  Thomas  son  of,  356. 

,  William  de  la,  knight,  569. 

Foley,  Ralph,  kniglit,  564,  570. 


762 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Poleyn,  William,  218. 

Polgrii^Ti,  William,   parson  of  Ilfra- 

combo,  320. 
Polgrym,  BtUclwin,  583. 
Polhampton  [in  Overton],  co.  Hants, 

19o,   196,   198,  200. 
Polruan  [in  Lanteglos-by-Fowey,  co. 

Cornwall],  bailiffs  of,  204. 
Polsaght,  Thomas,  of  Devon,  5-17. 
Poltimore,    Poltymor    [co.    Devon], 

fee  in,  523. 
Poluath  [oo.  Cornwall],  439. 
Poly,  Thomas,  398. 
Pomfret  [in  Stopnoy,  co.  Middlesex], 

manor  of,  416. 
Pontefract  [co.  York],  528. 

,  bailiffs  of,  482. 

Ponteland,    Ponthelond,   co.   North- 
umberland, manor  of,  46,  125. 
,  High    Callorton,    Calverdon 

Valence  in,  46. 

,  Little  Eland  in,  46,  125. 

Ponthieu  [France],  lordship  of,  93. 
Ponton,  Paimton,  co.  Lincoln,  92. 
Ponynges.     See  Poynings. 
Ponynges,  Joan  wife  of  Michael  de, 

21,  47,  60,  145. 

,  Luke  de,  232. 

,  .  .  . . ,     keeper     of     Pamber 

forest,  14. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight,  543. 

, ,    lord    St.    John,    348, 

350,  354,  355,  453. 
,  Michael  de,  kiaight,  20,  21, 

145. 
.......  Richard  son  of  Michael  de, 

20. 

,  Thomas  de,  knight,  147,  468. 

,  ....  son  of   Michael  de,  20, 

145. 
Pookes,  John,  of  Roxholm,  534. 
Poole,  Pole  [co.  Dorset],  bailiffs  of, 

115. 
,  keepers  of  passage  in  port 

of,  449. 
Pope,  the.     See  Gregory  XI,  Urban 

V. 
Pope,  Richard,  of  Buckinghamshire, 

66. 
Popel,  John,  pulter,  440. 
Popeler,  le.    See  Poplar. 
Popelote,  John,  of  Writtle,  602. 
Popham,  Pobham,  Henry,  Henry  de, 

542,  543,  551. 

,  Pliilip  de,  83. 

,  knight,  74,  75,  543. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Hants,    101,   289,   476. 
Poplar,  le   Popeler  [co.  Middlesex], 

186. 


Poroho,  Stephen  atte,  83. 
Poroforth,  Parnell  wife  of  Richard, 

537. 

Richard,  537. 

Porhowo,  John.  246,  247. 

Porkleye,  William,  80. 

Porlek,  Hemy,  349. 

Pormort,     Piiilip    son    of     Robert, 

205. 
Porto,  Fremund  do  la,  of  Northamp- 
ton, 608. 

,  John  de  la,  247. 

Porter,   Ralph,   keeper  of  Ilchester 

gaol,  334. 

,  Roger,  324. 

Portesmouth.      See    Portlemouth. 
Portesmuth.     See  Portsmouth. 
Portis,  Hugh,  chaplain,  395. 
Portland    [co.    Dorset],    keepers    of 

passage  in  port  of,  449. 
Portlemouth,       Portesmouth,       co. 

Devon,  84. 
Portsmouth,  Portesmuth,  co.  Hants, 

153. 

,  bailiffs  of,  201,  212,  261. 

,  burgesses    of,    212. 

,  .  .  . .,  in  parliament,  297. 

Portugal,    Portyngale,    Portynghale, 

270,  488,  496. 

,  concession  to  friar  of,   517. 

,  king  of.     See  Ferdinand. 

,  merchants  of,  264,  275. 

,  . .  . . ,  protection  of,   347. 

,  ships  of,  488,  509. 

,   .  .  .  .,  named,  270. 

Portynghale,  John  de,  friar  minor, 

517. 
Posse  comitatus,  6. 
Postwick,    Possewyk,    co.    Norfolk, 

manor  of,  120. 
Potel,  Stephen,  coroner  of  Devon,  8. 
Poterre.     See  Potter. 
Potlok,  WiUiam,  352. 
Potter,  Poterre,  John,  244,  343,  525. 

Richard,  109. 

,  Robert,  350. 

,  William,  283. 

Potterspuiy,       Potterespyrie,       co. 

Northampton,  manor  of,  128. 
pottery,   579. 
Potton,  WiUiam,  407. 
Pottowe,  John,  543. 
Potyn,  Nicholas,  185,  592. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  277. 

,  . .  .  . ,  searcher  of  f orfeitiu'es 

in  port  of  London,  412,  416, 

467. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  ....  and  the  Thames, 

522. 
Poucher,  John,  473,  490,  491. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


763 


Poultnoy,  Pultonoye  [in  Mistorton], 

CO.  Leiccstur,  manor  of,   182, 

183,  184,  185. 
Pountfract,     Pounfroit,     Poiintfruit, 

Poimtfrot,    John,    Jolin    do, 

110,  321. 
,   .  .  .  . ,    of    London,    saddlor, 

598. 

,  Thomas,  538. 

Poimtporo,    John    do,    merchant    of 

Valeuou,  213. 
Poutrill,  Pntrell,  Kichard,  571. 
Povy,  Tlionias,  of  Kent,  479. 
Power.    See  Powick. 
Power,  Jolm,  98,  596. 
Walter,  clork,   97,   98,    193, 

431,  434. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  of  cliancery,  287. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  king's  clerk,  396. 

Powick,  Power,  co.  Worcester,  ad- 

vowson  of,  454. 

,  manor  of,  108,  468. 

Pow'is,     Powys    [co.    Montgomery], 

lord  of.     See  Charloton,  John 

de. 
Poynings,     Ponjaigcs,     co.     Sussex, 

manor  of,  21. 
,  Pangdean,     Penggeden     in, 

21. 
Poyntz,  John,  Icnight,  286. 
,  knight  of  the  sliire  of 

Gloucester,   289,   298,    316. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Hants,  101. 
Prantyng,  John,  citizen  of  Norwich, 

222. 
Prat,  Pratte,  John,  clerk,  433,  434. 

,  Robert,  352. 

Pratis,  Peter  JuajTies  de,  merchant, 

envoy,  112. 
Pi-atte.    See  Prat. 

prayers  for  the  king's  success,  re- 
quest for,  563. 
Prechet,  Jolm,  583. 
Prene,  William  de,  parson  of  Wool- 
wich, 467. 
Prentis,    Prentiz,    Prentys,    Agnes, 

444. 

,  John,  fuller,  611. 

,  Wilham,  89,  99,  499. 

Presson,  Pressefi'en  [in  Carham,  co. 

Northumberland],   manor  of, 

448. 
Prest,   William,   keeper   of   Odiham 

park  and  warren,  211. 
Prestebank  in  Newbiggin  [co.  West- 
moreland], 5. 
Prestle.     See  Priestley. 
Preston  [by  Faversham],  next  Faver- 

sham,  CO.  Kent,  20,  585,  586. 


Preston — cont. 

[by       Sandwicli],       Preston 

manor,  co.  Kent,  letters  close 
dated  at,   109,  402,  459. 

[in  Shoreham,  co.  Kent],  442. 

[co.   Lancaster],   258,   269. 

,   .  .  .  .,  church  of,  268. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  clerk  to  take  recog- 
nizances of  debts  at.  See 
Longoloyo,  Jolm  do. 

,  .....  mayor  of.    See  Wyche, 

Roger. 

[near  Brighton],  Preston  by 

Gljnido,  CO.  Sussex,  manor  of, 
21. 

,  East,  Preston  Tipponoke  [co. 

Sussex],  bailiffs  of  the  bishop 
of  Cliichester  at,  325. 

Preston,  Henry  de,  chaplain,  268. 

,  Jolm  do,  bailiff  of  Newcastle- 
upon-Tyne,  111. 

,  .  .  . . ,  knight    of    tlie    sliire 

of  Westmoreland,   289. 

,  Robert  de,  biu'gess  of  Ips- 
wich in  parliament,  299. 

,  Thomas    de,    knight.     111, 

532,  551. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Northampton,  290,  298,  316, 
476. 

,  Walter  de,  burgess  of  North- 
ampton in   parliament,    101. 

,  Walter  de,  291. 

Preyers,  Roger,  coroner  of  Salop,  162. 

Prideaux,  Jolm,  knight,  86. 

Priestley,  Prestle,  co.  Bedford,  566. 

,  advowson  of  chapel  of,  566. 

deed  dated  at,  566. 

,  manor  of,  566. 

Prikke,  Pryk,  Prykke,  Adam,  of 
Winchester,  97. 

,  John,  71,  72. 

Prime,  John,  102. 

Prior,  ^^llliam,  of  Addlethorpe,  chap- 
lain, 562. 

Prittlewell,  Pritewell,  co.  Essex,  408. 

Probus,  CO.  Cornwall,  Trenowth,  Tre- 
nethow  in,  86. 

proclamations  : — 

concerning    defence     of    coast, 
214,  215,  220,  238,  239,  276. 

men  at  arms  for  service 

in  France,  185,  186,  568. 
forbidding   eloignment    of   men 
or  goods,  20,  23,  28,  42,  361, 
362,  426,  435,  479,  542,  579, 
588. 

export    of    money,    20, 

228. 
forestalling,  193,  195. 


704 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


proclamations :  forbidding — cont. 

insiilts  to  aliens,  91, 

riotous  assemblies,  302. 

sale   of  ships  to  aliens, 

357. 

unauthorized      imports, 

314. 
of  arrays,  37,  202. 
of    fortification    of     castles     in 

Wales,  61,  02. 
of    peace    with    Flanders,    427, 
428,  447. 

with  Genoa,  277. 

protecting  merchants  of  Portu- 
gal, 347. 
regulating   currency,    306,    320, 
482. 

sale  of  cloth,  87,  88,  133. 

corn,   188,  443. 

victuals,  177,  179, 

180,  181,  188,  452. 

wine,    201,     278, 

443,   444,   606. 

wool,  434. 

Profit,   John,   merchant  of   Bristol, 

30. 
Prote,  Ralph,  baker,  of  London,  67. 
protection,  letters  of,  257,  373. 
Proude,  Geoffrey,  325. 
Provence  [France],  merchants  of,  26. 
Prurigge.     See  Porridge  ? 
Prussia,  Spruce,  merchants  of,  10. 
Prust,  John,  of  Scridehay,  603. 
Pryde,  John,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Hereford,  476. 
Pryk.     See  Prikke. 
Prykeys,  John,  598. 
Prykke.     See  Prikke. 
Prj'terwelle,  John  de,  586. 
Pucklechurch,      Pokulchurche      [co. 
Gloucester],   parson   of.      See 
Hethenham,    Walter. 
Puddle.     See  Bryant's  Puddle. 
Pudel,  Henry,   coroner  of  Cumber- 
land, 8. 
Pudele   Turverville.       See   Bryant's 

Puddle. 
Pudsey,  Podeshethe  [in  Canewdon], 

CO.  Essex,  fee  in,  492. 
Pulko,  John,  349. 
Pxilteneye.     See  Poultney. 
Pulteneye,  Robert,  552. 
Pulter,  Walter,  of  Codicote,  596. 
Pulton,  Geoffrey,  601. 
Purbeck,  Purbek,  Purbik  [co.  Dor- 
set], 344,  421. 
Purcha.s,   Geoffrey,   parson   of   Toft 
Monks,  420. 

Thomas,         of        Langley, 

Marsh,  428. 


Purley,  Purlee,  Purlo,  Jolm  de,  350. 

clerk,  188. 

,  Wilham,    William    de,     73, 

446. 

Cf.  Perle. 

Purshull  [in  Elmbridge],  co.  Worces- 
ter, manor  of,  108. 
Pursle,  Robert,  bailiff  of  liberty  of 

hundi-ed  of  Thame,   157. 
Purton,  Piriton,  co.  Wilts,  farmer  of 

manor  of.    See  Wacche,  John. 
Pusemoro.     See  Peasemore. 
Pusye,  John,  87. 
Putfold.    See  Pitfold. 
Putrell.     See  Poutrill. 
Putte,  John  atte,  356. 
Puttenham,      Roger,      Roger      de, 

knight,  70,  175,  451. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Buckingham,  289,   612. 
Pycard.     See  Picard. 
Pycot.     See  Picot. 
Pydele.        See      Bryant's      Puddle, 

Piddle. 
Pyebakera,  Hugh,  529. 
Pyel,  Piel,  John,  68,  98,  309,  321. 
,  . .  .  . ,  alderman  of  London, 

143,  210. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  238. 

,  .  .  .  . ,     mayor     of     London, 

470,  471,  531. 
,....,     ....     and    esclieator 

therein,  478,  498,  501,  504. 
Pykard.    See  Picard. 
Pykbrigge.    See  Pekbrugge. 
Pyke,     Eleanor     (Reison)     wife     of 

John,  16. 

,  Richard,  532. 

Pykebon,  Jolm,  190,  294. 
Pykeryngge,     James      de,      knight, 

imder-sheriff     of     Westmore- 
land, 178. 
Pykot.    See  Picot. 
PykAvell,  John  de,  93. 
Pylatenhale,  John  son  of   Margaret 

sister  of  WilHam  de,  137. 

,  William  de,  137. 

,  ....  son  of   Joan  sister  of 

WiUiam  de,  137. 
Pylet.     See  Pilet. 
Pym,  Pymme,  William,  109,  309,  546. 

, ,  of  Edmonton,  292. 

Pympe,  William  de,  knight  of  the 

shire  of  Kent,  476. 
Pyn,  Richard,  523. 
Pyncebek.     See  Pinchbeck. 
Pyncebek,  Thomas,  458. 
Pynchenthorp.    Ses  Pinchingthorpe, 
Pynchon,  William,  340. 
Pyncote,  Robert,  553. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


(65 


Pjaider,  William,  567. 
PjTideven.    See  Pinvin. 
Pynowj'gel,  William,  105. 
Pyiiley.     See  Pinley. 
Pype.    See  Pipe. 
Pyrie.    See  Perry  Wood,  Pirie. 
PjTiton.     See  Piryton. 
PjTnawo.     See  Pirnoiigh. 


Q 

Quappelade.     Sec  Whappelade. 

Qiiarr  abbey,  Isle  of  Wight,  abbot  of, 
151. 

Quarrendon,  Quernedon,  co.  Buck- 
ingham, manor  of,  123. 

Quarringtou,  Queryngton  [co.  Lin- 
coln], 289,  316,  53-4. 

Queche,  Robert,  21. 

C/.  Weche. 

Queensborougli,  Quenesburgh  [co. 
Kent],    399. 

,    clerk  of    works    at.       See 

Paj-forer,  Fiilk. 

,  collectors  of    customs    etc. 

at,  389,  409. 

mayor  and  bailiffs  of,  264. 

,  port  of,  389,  399. 

,  .  .  . . ,  customer  and  con- 
troller of,  497. 

,  staple  of,  399. 

Quenbom"gh,  Jolui,  of  Homingsea, 
456. 

Quendon,  Quenden,  co.  Essex, 
manor  of,  496. 

Quenesburgh.     See   Queensborougli. 

Quenild,  Quenj^ld,  Jolui,  596. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  otherwise  called  Burn- 
ton,  607. 

Quenton.     See  Quinton. 

Quenton,  Isabel  wife  of  William  de, 
332. 

,  William  de,  knight,   332. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Northampton,  101,  290. 

Quenyld.    See  Quenild. 

Querf.    See  ^^^^arfe. 

Quernebv.  Qwernby,  John  de,  clerk, 
82,  579. 

Quernedon.     See  Qiiarrendon. 

Quemmore,  Quememoi'e  forest,  co. 
Lancaster,  444. 

Quer^nigton.     See  Quarrington. 

Quidliampton,  Quvdhampton  [in 
Overton],  co.  Hants,  195,  196, 
198,  200. 


Quinton,  Quenton  [co.  Northamp- 
ton], manor  of,  332. 

Quitgravo,  Stephen,  111. 

Quixoleye,  Rogt>r  do,  sub-escheator 
in.  Yorksliire,  7. 

Quj'dliampton.     See   Quidhampton. 

Quykliam.    See  WliickJiam. 

Quyntyn,  Rioliard  son  of  William, 
of  Wishford,  511. 

Qwernby.      See    Quorneby. 


R 

Raby  [in  Staindrop,  co.  Durham], 
Neville  of.     See  Neville. 

Racchich.     See  Neroche. 

Radclif.     See  Redcliff. 

Radcot,  Rotecote  [in  Langford],  co. 
Oxford,  11. 

Radeclif,  Radeclive,  Radeclyf, 
Radeclyve,  Redeclif,  John  de, 
of  Clithoroo,  481. 

,  . .  .  .,  vicar  of  Evington,   1. 

,  Richard  de,  sheriff  of  Lan- 
cashire, 280. 

1      , ,  the  elder,  280. 

i      ,  .  .  .  . ,  the  younger,  escheator 

i  in  Lancashire,  500. 

,  Thomas  son  of  Richard  de, 

280. 

,  William  son  of  William  de, 

154,  194. 

Radehniche.    See  Redl;^Tich. 

Radewell.     See  Radwell. 

RadewvTiter.    See  Radwinter. 

Radford  Semele,  Radford,  co.  War- 
wick. 23. 

,  mill  in,  23. 

I      ,  ])laces  named  in,  23. 

I     Radwell,   Radewell   by  Baldok  [co. 
j  Hertford],  427,  588. 

,  deed  dated  at,  427. 

Radwinter,  RadewJ^ater,  co.  Essex, 
fee  in,  492. 

Raggele.     See  Ragley. 
I     Raghton.  Eleanor  wife  of  John  de, 
124. 

,  Jolm  de,  124. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  verderer  in  Inglewood 

forest.  9.  ' 

,  William  de,  439. 

Cf.  Raketon. 

Ragley,     Raggele     [in     Arrow,     co. 
'  ^^'arwlck],  Rous  of,  468. 

Ragon,  Ragoim,  John,  knight,  79, 
575,  577. 


766 


GENERAL    IXDEX. 


Ragon,  John — cont. 

,  .....  kiiight  of  tho  shiro  of 

Bodford,   lUl,  289,  476,  612. 

Rainham,  Kenharn,  co.  Kent,  46. 

Koyaham,       co.       Norfolk, 

manor  of,  560. 

Raitliby  [by  Spilsby],  Ratheby,  co. 
Lincoln,   379. 

Rakornoford,  William,  321. 

Raketon,  William,  76. 

Cf.  Raghton. 

Ralegh,  Raylegh,  John,  of  Raleigh, 
523. 

,  Thomas,  527. 

Raleigh,  Ralegh  [in  Pilton],  co. 
Devon,  523. 

Ram,  Joan,  517. 

John,  of  Chffo,  71,  72. 

,  IMargaret        daughter        of 

Robert,  of  Cliffo,  67. 

Robert,  349. 

Ramenrugge,  Ramerugge.  See  Ram- 
ridge. 

Rameseye.     See  Ramsey. 

Rameshnll,  Peter,  281. 

Rammesden.     See  Ramsden. 

Ramridge,  Ramenrugge,  Ramerugge 
[in  Weyhill],  co.  Hants, 
manor  of,  556,  558. 

Ramsbury,  co.  Wilts,  Axford  in, 
309. 

Ramsden  Bellliouse,  Rammesden 
Belhous,  CO.  Essex,  advowson 
of  chai^l  of,  494,  495. 

,  manor  of,  494,  495. 

Ramsey,  Rameseye,  co.  Essex,  fee 
in,  492. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  272. 

[co.  Huntingdon],  abbot  and 

convent  of,  322. 

Ramsey,  Rameseye,  Margery,  535. 

,  William  alias  Thomas  Baker 

alias  Jolm  Robyn,  499. 

Randolf,  Randulf,  Randulph,  Geof- 
frey, of  Yorksliire,  112. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  coroner  of  Yorkshire, 

122. 

,  John,  clerk,  560. 

,  Stephen,  chaplain,  116. 

,  .  .  .  .,  rector  of  Cowden,  116, 

,  William,  579. 

Randolveston.     See  Ranston. 

Randulf,  Randulph.    See  Randolf. 

ransom,  grant  of,  468. 

of  David  de  Bruys,  211. 

Ranston,  Randolveston  [in  Iwerne 
Courtney],  co.  Dorset,  manor 
of,  285. 

Ranton.  Ronton  prioi'y  [co.  Staf- 
ford], 270. 


Rapps,  la  Apse    by  Aysshulle  [co. 

Somerset],  537. 
Rasen,    West,    Westrason,    co.    Lin- 
coln, manor  of,  491. 
Rasyn,  Alice  de,  110. 

Cf.  Reison,  Resoun. 

Rat  by,  Roteby,  co.   Leicester,   351. 

Groby  in.     See  Groby. 

,  places  named  in,  351. 

Rath,  Richard,  bui'gess  of  Drogheda, 

246. 
,  Thomas,  the  elder,  burgess 

of  Drogheda,  246. 
Ratheby.    See  Raithby. 
Rathkeale,   Rathgell,   co.   Limerick, 

Lymorik,  Ireland,  manor  of, 

231,  411. 
Ratlisden,  John  de,  knight,  547. 
Rauel,  Joan  wife  of  Walter,  104. 

,  John  son  of  Walter,  104. 

,  Walter,  104. 

Rauf,  Thomas,  king's  clerk,  591. 

Cf.  Fitz  Rauf,  Rolf. 

Raughulle.    See  Rowehill. 

Raulyn,  Robert,  parson   of  Norton 

under  Hamdon,  558. 

,  Thomas,  580. 

Rauljms,  John,  of  Dassett,  334. 
Raundes,   Richard,   king's  serjeant, 

yeoman  of  his  kitchen,   308. 
Raureth.    See  Rawreth. 
Rauthorn,  Adam  de,  154. 
Raven,  John,  clerk.  585. 

,  Robert,  585. 

Ravendale,    Michael    de,    clerk,    71, 

348,  430,  548,  551,  564. 
Ravenser,  Ravenesere,  John  de,  578. 
,    clerk,    95,    193,    329, 

580. 
■ ,  Richard  de,   archdeacon  of 

Lincoln,    81,    193,    256,    329, 

330,  333,  436,  578,  580. 
, ,  clerk,  67,  78.  86,  87, 

95,   100,   200,   359,   439,   484, 

551,  570,  576. 

,  . .  .  . ,  ....  of  chancery.  445. 

,  . . .  . ,  king's  clerk,  256. 

,....,     .  .  .  . ,    attorney    and 

receiver    of    the    moneys    of 

queen  Philippa,  31. 
,  .  .  .  . ,   .  .  .  . ,  keeper,  clerk  of 

the  hanaper  of  chancery,  136, 

346.  411,  424,  514,  582. 
Raven's    Holme,    Ravensholme    in 

Dounom     [in     Downham    in 

WTialley],  co.  Lancaster,  169. 
Ravensholme,  Thomas  de.  169. 
Ravensthorpo,     co.     Northampton, 

Coton,  Estcoton  in,  84. 
Raventhorp,  Robert  de,  473. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


161 


Ravonthorp — cont. 

,  William  do,  666. 

Rawreth,  Kaiirotlu  co.  Essex,  408. 
Rawston,  Reston  [in  Bisliop's  Nyjnp- 

ton],  CO.  Devon,  fee  in,  339. 
Ray,  Jolin,  110. 
,  . .  .  . ,    of   Covontiy,    fanner 

of  subsidy,  90,  423. 
Raygate.    See  Reygate. 
Raylegli.    See  Ralegh. 
Rayleigh,  Reylogli,  co.  Essex,  276, 

372. 

honour  of,  372,  408,  495. 

,  bailiff  of,  47. 

Rayne,    Little   I^yae,    Raynos,    co. 

Essex,  .574. 

,  fee  ui,  492. 

Raynliam,  Reynhani,  Tliomas,  323. 
Reado,  William,  bishop  of  Chichester, 

203,  252. 
, provost  of  Wingham, 

122. 

Cf.  Rede. 

Reading.     Rodyng,     Redynges,     co. 

Berks,  82. 

,  abbot  of,  300. 

,bm'gess  of,  in  parliament,  298. 

Redboiirno,  Redbum    [co.  Lincoln], 

John  vicar  of,  560. 
Redchff,  Radelif  [in  North  Ferriby, 

CO.  York],  242. 
Reddesham.     See  Redisliam. 
Rede.     See  Reed. 
Rede,  Adam  le,  of  Aldershaw,  57. 

John,  350,  351. 

, atte,  350. 

,  William,  527. 

Cf.  Reade. 

Redeclif.     See  Radeclif. 
Redehalle.     See  Reed  Hall. 
Redemane.     See  Redmane. 
Redere,  William,  of  Loddon,  420 
Redhoo,  Hugh,  Hugh  de,  254. 

, ,  knight,  342. 

Redisham,  Reddesham,  co.  SuiTolk, 

manor  of,  565. 
Redkjaaowe,  John,  of  Cornwall,  583. 
RedljTioh,    Radehniclie    [co.    Wilts], 

deed  dated  at.   333. 
Redmakere,  John,  324. 
Redmane.  Redemane,  John,  340. 

,  Mattliew  de,  knight,  539. 

Thomas  de.  coroner  of  West- 
moreland, 162.  233,  410. 
Redmarley     Dabitot,    Rykmerleye, 

CO.  Worcester,  fee  in,  127. 
Redmergge.    See  Rodmaredge. 
RedjTig.     See  Reading. 
Redyng,  Nicholas  de,  433. 
Cf.  RiddjTig. 


Redynges.     See  Reading. 

Reed,  Estrecd,  Est  Reed,  Rede,  co. 

Hertford,  73,  444. 
,  Rede,  co.    Suffolk,  fees  in, 

492,  493. 
Hall,  Rodeliallo  [in  Burstow], 

CO.  Surrey,  deed  dated  at,  185. 

,  manor  of,  185,  191. 

Reepham,    Rcfham    [co.     Norfolk], 

William  parson  of,  459. 
Rees    ap    Griffith,   Griffuth,  kniglit, 

552. 
,  Elizabeth  wife  of  Pliilip  ap, 

163. 
Joan  wife  of  Philip  ap,  49, 

63,  163. 
,  Jolm      ap,      escheator      in 

Gloucestershire,  418,  499,  506. 
,  .....  ....  in  Herefordsliire, 

418,  487,  506. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  the  marches  of 

Wales,  418,  506. 

,  Pliilip  ap,  knight,  63. 

Cf.  Rys. 

Refham.     See  Reephain. 

Reison,    Eleanor    (Pyke)    sister    of 

John,  16. 

,  John,  15,  16. 

,  Margery     (Cook)     sister    of 

John,  16. 

,  Tliomas  son  of  John,  15,  16. 

Cf.  Rasyn,  Resoun. 

Renham.     Sec  Rainliam. 

Renhold,  Ronhale  [co.  Bedford],  539. 

Renulphi,  Pliilip,  proctor  in  England 

of  abbot  of  Fecamp,  149. 
ReppjTigliale.     See  Rippingale. 
Repton,     Repyndon     [co.     Derby], 

bailiffs  of,  417. 

,  prison  at,  417. 

Repyiighale.     See  Rippingale. 
Repynghale,  Rypynghale,  John  de, 

196,  398,  575. 
Reresbj%  Thomas  de,  knight,  308. 
Rescarmer,  John,  560. 
Resoun,  William,  427,  465. 

Cf.  RasjTi,  Reison. 

Resshe,  la.    See  Rusli  Court. 
Restecombe,  Nicholas,  393. 
Reston.     See  Rawston. 
Restwold,  Elizabeth  wife  of  William 

son  of  Ralph  de.  589. 

,  Ralph  de,  572. 

, ,  the  elder,  589. 

Retlx'.     See  Rethel. 
Rethe,  John,  424. 

Cf.  Rithe,  Wretho. 

Rethel,  Reth'  [France,dep. Ardennes], 

count  of.     See  Lewis  II. 
Retheresthroup.    See  Rothersthorpe. 


768 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Rethorfeld.     See  Rothorfiold. 

Roulo,  Jolin  do,  483. 

Reve,  Richard  lo,  472. 

Tlioinas  lo,  bishop  of  Water- 
ford  and   Lismore,    328,   392. 

Revel,  John  ftuhor  of  Nicholas,  472. 

.Nicholas,   lord  of   Nowbold 

Revel,  472. 

C/.  Ryvell. 

Rovers,  Edniiuid  de,  439,  441. 

,  Jolin  father  of  Ednmnd  de, 

439. 

,  ....  nephew  of  Edmund  do, 

439. 

Reveshalo,  John,  440. 

Rewonhale.     See  Rivenhall. 

Reydon,  Walter  de,  492. 

Reygato,  Raygate,  James,  James  de, 
97,  98,  337,  470,  580. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Yorkshire,  549. 

,  William  de,  93. 

,  escheator  in  York- 
shire, 18. 

Reylegh.     See  Rayleigh. 

Reymund,  John,  348. 

RejTiald.    See  Reynold. 

Reynboud,  William,  prior  of  St. 
Mary,  Lancaster,  897. 

Reyne,  Great.    See  Braintree. 

,  Little.     See  Rayne. 

Reyne,  John,  of  Devon,  562. 

Reyner,  John,  189. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  cornmonger,  323. 

Reynes,  Thomas,  Thomas  de,  knight, 
332,  469. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Bedford,  289,  298,  316. 

,  .  .  . . ,    ....  of  Buckingham, 

101. 

,   .  .  .  . ,     lieutenant     of     the 

constable  of  Dover  castle, 
498,  513. 

Reynham.    See  Rainham,  Raynham. 

Reynold,  RejTiald,  Henry  son  of,  357. 

,  Robert,  of  Montacute,  461. 

,  William,  586. 

Rhenish  wine,  258. 

Rhuddlan,  Rotheland  [co.  Flint], 
staple  of,  38. 

Riccarston,  Ricardeston  [in  Brawdy, 
CO.  Pembroke],  592. 

Richard  son  of  Edward  prince  of 
Aquitaine  and  Wales,  guard- 
ian of  England,  letters  close 
tested  by,  456,  462,  466. 

Richard  ap  TheweljTi,  66. 

,  John  son  of,  de  Bagingdene, 

85. 

,    Roger  son  of,  de  Stanlak, 

526,  527. 


Richardessone,  John,  of  Burwell,  591. 

See  Fitz  Richard. 

Richomond,  Richemund.     See  Rich- 
mond. 
Richild,    Rychild,    Simon,   chaplain, 

173,  174. 
Richmond  alias  Slioen  [co.  Surrey], 

letters  close  dated  at,  47,  48, 

153,  418.  487,  513. 
Richomond,  Richemund  [co. 

York],  earl  of.    See  John  duke 

of  Lancaster. 
,    earldom,    castle   and 

town  of,  484. 

, ,  honour  of,  403,  484. 

Rickmansworth,  Rykmeresworth  [co. 

Hertford],     Moor     Park,     la 

More  in,  315. 
Riddyng,  Robert  de,  268. 

Cf.  Red^-ng,  RudjTig. 

Ridge,  le  Rugge,  co.  Hertford,  535. 
Ridgmont,       Rougemont       (Ruheua 

Mons)  [in  Ampthill,  co.  Bed- 
ford], Lisle  of,  505. 
Rigby,   Richard  de,   of   Lancashire, 

444. 
Righte,  Jolm  atte,  578. 
Rikeman,  John,  the  younger,  239. 
Rilleston,  William  de,  6,  7. 
Rillington,  Rillyngton,  co.  York,  18. 
...,..,  Scampton,  Scamstonin,  112. 
Ruigstone,    RjTagcsdon    [in    Rippin- 

gale],  CO.  Lincoln,  197,  198. 
Ringwold,  RydeljTigwolde,  co.  Kent, 

manor  of,  272,  273. 
Ringwood,  Rungewode  [co.  Hants], 

parson    of.      See    Langeleye, 

William  de. 
Ripe,  Rip  [co.  Sussex],  comrt  of,  271. 
Ripen  [co.  York],  bailiffs  of,  482. 
,  collegiate  church  of,   chap- 
lain of  altar  of  St.  Mary  in. 

See  Bondegate,  Adam  de. 

,  .....  fabric  of,  79. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  79. 

,  Horse    Fair,    tlie    Horsfaire 

in,  79. 

,  Kirkgate,  ICirkegate  in,  79. 

,  St.  Agnesgate,  Aunsgate  in, 

79. 
,  Stonebridgegate,    Staynber- 

gate  in,  79. 
Rippefeld   [co.   Sussex  ?],  chace    of, 

149. 
Rippingale,   Reppiv^nghale,   Repjiig- 

hale,  CO.  Lincoln.  195,  196. 

,  advowson  of,  195,  196. 

,  manor  of,  195,  196,  197, 198. 

,  parson     of.      ^ee     Dorme- 

thorp,  Richard. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


769 


Rippingale — cont. 

,  Kingstone,    Ryngesdon    in, 

197,  198. 
Ripple,  CO.  Kont,  WacUing,  Wodlyng, 

in,  117. 
Ripplynghftni,  Ralpli  de,  588. 
Risbiirgli,  Jolin,   532. 
Risby,  Kysby,  co.  Lincoln,  manor  of, 

387. 
Rishanglrs,   Rysengles,   co.    Suffolk, 
deed  dated  at,   340. 

manor  of,  340. 

Rithe,  Rytho,  Tliomasatte,  318,  533. 

Cf.  Rethe. 

Ritherfeld.     See  Rotliorfield. 
RivenJiall,    Rewenhalo,    co.    Essex, 
advowson  of,  560. 

,  manor  of,  560. 

rivers  in  Yorkshire  and  Lincolnshire, 
justices  to  observe  and  keep, 
103. 
Robbesson,  Adam,  296. 

Jolin,  of  Tjaiedalo,  296. 

Tliomas,  296. 

Roberd,  William,  258. 

Robert,  Ralpli,  of  Middlesex,  580. 

,  Robert  son  of,  de  Corby,  569. 

,  Thomas  son  of,  de  Gosber- 

kirk,  263,  267. 
Robines,    Robin,    RobjTi,    Robjnis, 
John     alias    Tliomas     Baker 
alias  William  Rameseye,  499. 

,  Richard,  189,  356. 

,  Simon,   596. 

,  Thomas,  108,  109. 

Robtot,  William,  536,  537. 
Robyn,  Robj-ns.    See  Robines. 
Roche,  John,  John  de  la,  knight,  326, 
592. 

.William,  of  Lincolnshire,  470. 

Rocheford,  Rj-cheford.  Beatrice  wiie 
of  John  de,  580. 

,  John  de,  knight,  580. 

,  Saier  de,  knight,  337. 

,  sheriff  of  co.  Lincoln. 

263.  267. 

,  Thomas,  99. 

Rochelle,  Rochele,  La,  [France,  dep. 
Charente-Inferieure],    burgess 
of,  275. 
Rocliester,    Rouchestre,    co.    Kent. 
532. 

,  bailiffs  of.  40,  389.  483,  505 

.bishop    of.       See    Trelleck. 

Thomas. 

,  castle,  40. 

,  .....  master  of  the  king's 

works  in,  40. 

,  citizens    of,    in    parliament, 

290,  297,  316. 


Rochester — cont. 

,  diocese  of,  252. 

,  maj'or  of,  115. 

,  prior  of,  167. 

,  prison  at,  467. 

,  Eppelane  and  Horslane  in, 

40. 

Great  Delce,  Dels  in,  465. 

Rocko.    Walter,    clia])lain,    104. 
Rockford,  Rokeford  [in  Ellingham], 

CO.  Hants,  237. 
Rockingham,        Rokjnigham,        co. 
Xorthampton,   74. 

castle,  constable  of,   323. 

forest,  election  of  verderers  of, 

236,  485. 
Rodberwe,  Hugli,  collector  of  sub- 
sidy, 527. 
Rode,  Hervey  ScarthjTi,  483. 
Roderham.     See  Rotherham. 
Rodipak,  Miles,  249. 
Rodirham.     See  Rotherham. 
Rodmaredge,         Redmergge         [by 
Groombridge,  cos.  Sussex  and 
Kent],  manor  of,  96. 
roes,  fells  of,  325,  328. 
Roger,  John,  546. 

Richard  son  of,  356. 

,  Robert,  546. 

,  Roger  son  of,  do  Saperton,  35. 

,  .  .  .  . ,    .  .  .  . ,  warden  of  the 

Fleet  prison,  36. 

,  Simon  son  of,  356. 

See  Rogerson. 

Rogers,  Emma,  356. 

Rogerson,  Roger,  of  Ivirton,  566. 

See  Roger. 

Roiston.     See  Royston. 

Rokeby,    Thomas    de,     the     uncle, 

justiciary  of  Ireland,  381. 
Rokeford.     See  Rockford. 
Rokele,  Rokell,  Geoffrey,  280. 

.......  clerk.  238.  512. 

Godfrey.  586. 

,  John,  verderer  of  the  forest 

of  Essex,  23. 

,  Robert,    Robert   de   la,    66, 

551,   573,   575. 

,  William    de    la,    bailiff    of 

queen   Philippa  at   Cookham 
Bray.   Binfield  and   Sunning- 
hill,   260. 
Rokesburgh.  William  de,  102.  443. 
Rokewode,  Rokwode.  John,  John  de, 
176. 

.....  escheator  in  Norfolk, 

60.    119.    145.    147.   245.   253, 
358.  359.  383. 

in    Suffolk,    60,    145, 

156,   161,  253,  389,  415,  494. 

CR  49 


770 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Rokvvodo.     See  Rokowode. 
Rokyngliain.     See  Rockingham. 
Roll",  Ricliarcl.  356. 

Cf.  Raiif. 

RoUestono,    Rolvcston    [co.    Wilts]. 

344. 
Rome,  cardinals  of,  424. 
,  cliurch    of     St.     Martin    in 

Montibus,       Giles       cardinal 

priest  of.  424,  578. 
of  St.  Mary  in  Trans 

tcvere,     Guillermns      cardinal 

priest  of,  424,  578. 
court  of,  159,  302,  312,  314. 

320,  330,  337,  411,  421,  422. 

423,  432,  467,  471,  474,  477. 

551,   552,   559,   562. 
,    abode    of    bishop    of 

Ely  at,  3. 
,  pope  of.      See  Gregory  XI, 

Urban  V. 

,  see  of,  159. 

Romene,  Romeneye.     See  Romney. 
Romeseye,  Romseye,  Jolm,  Jolm  de. 

172. 

, treasurer  of  Calais,  525. 

.,  Walter,  Walter  de,  knight, 

433,  444. 
Romford,  Rnmford,  co.  Essex,  manor 

of,  376. 
Romney,    Romene,    Romeneye    [co. 

Kent],  299. 

,  bailiffs  of,  115,  188. 

,  Old,       Olderomeneye,       co. 

Kent,   manor  of,   271. 
Romseye.     See  Romeseye. 
Romylly.     See  Riimilly. 
Romj-n,  John,  98. 
Ronghersvliete,  William  de,  knight, 

300. 
Ronhale.     See  Renhold. 
Ronham,    William    de,    parson    of 

Sproughton,  318. 
Ronssy,  Ronsay,  Hugh  de,  191,  192. 
,  ....,    the    king's    hostage. 

136. 
Rook,  Richard,  318,  440,  441,  597. 

Cf.  Rocke. 

rooms  named,  348. 

Roos,     Roos     in     Holdernesse,     co. 

York,  395. 
Roos,  Beatrice,  wife  of  Thomas  de, 

394. 

,  Ebulo,  96. 

,  Godfrey,  knight,  547. 

,  John,  193. 

,  Margaret    wife    of    William 

son  of  William  de,  394,  405. 
Thomas  brother  of  William 

do,  18,  405, 


RooH,  Tliomas — cont. 

do,  of  Helmsley,  209, 

373,   394,   395. 

....  lo,  273. 

,  William  de,  of  Helmsley,  18, 

395,  405. 
,  ....    father  of  William  do, 

405. 

Cf.  Ros. 

Roothing,      Beauchamp,       Rothing 

Beauchamp  [co.  Essex],  99. 
,  Margaret.      Rothyng     Mar- 

garete  [co.  Essex],  600,  602. 
Ropa,  Roger,  83. 
Ropere,   John,   citizen    of   Wells  in 

parliament,  298. 
,  ....,   merchant   of   Bristol, 

30. 
Ropley,  Rop^iele,  co.  Hants,  70. 
Ropsley,  Roppesle,  Roppesleye  [co. 

Lincoln],  248. 
,  parson     of.       See     Djmgel, 

William. 
Ros,  Adam,  571. 

,  Robert,  knight,  91. 

Cf.  Roos. 

Rose,  Edmimd,  82,  277. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  clerk,  of  Norwich,  478. 

,  Henry,   566. 

,  Thomas,  of  Beccles,  82. 

rose,  rents  and  services  of,  468,  550, 

570. 
Rosebrough     [in    Ellingham]  ?    Os- 

berwj'k,  co.  Xorthmnberland, 

manor  of,  448. 
Rosker,  John,  583. 
Rosliston,    Rostlaston,    co.    Derby, 

manor  of,  374. 
Ross,  CO.  Hereford,  Penyard,  Peny- 

yard  in,  487. 
,  Old,    Rosse,    CO.    Wexford, 

Ireland,  550. 
Rosse    Vet,    Thomas,    merchant    of 

Aberdeen,  64. 
Rostlaston.     See  Rosliston. 
Roston,  Henry  de,  burgess  of  Scar- 

borovigh    in  parliament,  299. 
Rote,    John,    skinner,    of    London, 

325,  328. 
Roteby.     See  Ratby. 
Rotecote.     See  Radcot. 
Roteland.     See  Rutland. 
Rotheland.     See  Rhuddlan. 
Rothelay.     See  Rotliley. 
Rothelav,  William  de,  605. 
Rotheffield,     Retherfeld     [in     East 

Tisted],  CO.  Hants,  keeper  of 

manor      of.        See      Botoun, 

Robert. 
,  Rotherfold  [co.  Sussex],  96, 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


771 


Rothoi'fiold — cont. 

Groys,    Kithorfeld    [co.    Ox- 

forclj,  Groy  of,  293. 
P»;ppard,     Rotliorfuld     Pip- 

jjard,   Jiutliorfeld  Pipard  [co. 

Oxford],   3;U). 

,  deed  dated  at,  82. 

,  places  named  in,  82. 

Rotherliam,    Roderhani,    Rodirliaiii 

[co.  York].  308,  461. 

,  (;luu'eli  of,  44. 

,  Briuswort  h,      Brymmcsford 

in,  417. 
Rotherhitho     [co.     Surrey],     letters 

close  tlated  at,  85. 
Rotlierstliorpe,    Retheresthroup,    co. 

Nortlianipton,  manor  of,  563. 
Rothewell,  John,  JoJm  do,  81. 

,   .  .  .  .,  clerk,  451. 

,   knight,  597. 

,  William  de,   keeper  of   the 

changes     in     the     Tower     of 

London,   .526. 
Rothing.     See  Rootliing. 
Rotlung,  Rothyng,  John,  452. 

,  Ralph,   544. 

Rotlilej',    Rothelaj',    co.    Leicester, 

186. 

,  Wycomb,  Wyldiam  in,  428. 

Rothyng.     See  Roothing,  Rothing. 
Rotour,  RicJiard.  parson  of  Whick- 

ham.   435. 
Rou,  Joan  wife  of  Thomas,  82. 

,  Thomas,  82. 

Roucebv,  Rouseby,  John,  John  de, 

clerk,  306,  433. 
Roiicliestre.     See  Rochester. 
Roucliffe,  Rouclj'f,  Robert  de,  kniglit, 

103. 
, knight  of  the  shire  of 

York,   289,   299,   316,   611. 
Roucote.     See  Rncoto. 
Rouen,  Rnaen  [Franco,  dep.  Seine- 

Tnf^rieure],  226. 
Rougemont.     See  Ridgmont. 
Roughond,  Jolin,  440. 
Ronghton,  John  de,  420. 
Ronghulle.     See  Rowehill. 
Roiiley,  Jolin,  of  London,  324. 
Roimore.     See  Rowaier. 
Rous,  Alan  le,  456. 
,  Jolm,  John  le,  108,  144,  448, 

453. 
,   escheator  in  Leicester- 

.shire,  125,  13.5,  14.5,  160,  220. 

223,  232,  237,  247,  25.3,  350. 
,   .  .  .  .,  ....  in  Warwickshire, 

126,  140.  146,  220,  221,  232, 

253,  271,  365. 
, of  Ragley,  468. 


Roua — cont. 

,  Juliana  daughter  of  Thomea, 

322. 

,   ....  sister  of  John  le,   144. 

,  Maud  wife  of  Thoma.s,   142. 

Robert,  of  Bristol,   194. 

,  Tiiomas,  142,  322. 

Rouseby.     See  Roiiceby. 

Rouseley.     See  Rowsloy. 

Routh,  Robert  de,  413.' 

Ronton.     See  Ranton. 

Rouwe.     See  Rowe. 

Rowden,  Royesden  [in  Mentmore,  co. 

Buckingham],    447,    448. 
Rowdon,  Rovvcdon  [in  Withoridge], 

CO.  D(iVon,  fee  in,  523. 
Rowe,  Rouwe,  Peter,  Peter  le,  109, 

292. 
Rowedon.     See  Rowdon. 
Rowehill,  Ranglmlle,  Ronghulle  [in 

Wilmington],  cc.  Kent,  deed 

dated  at,  536. 

,  manor  of,  536. 

Rowner,  Roimore,  co.  Hants,  manor 

of,  285. 
Row.sley,  Rou.soley,  co.  Derby,  509. 
Roxliolm,  Roxliam  [in  I^reasingham, 

CO.  Lincoln],  534. 
Roxwoll,  CO.  Essex,  Newland,  Neu- 

lond,  Newelond  in,  600,  602. 
Royesden.     See  Rowden. 
Royston,  Roiston,  John,  91,  93. 
Ruaen.     See  Rouen. 
Rucote,    Roticote,    John,    John    de, 

343.  4.50,  555,  556,  562. 
Rude,  Ralpli  atto,  176. 
Rudyng,  Elizabeth  (de  Northgrave) 

wife  of  Robert  atte,  136. 
Ricliard     de,     verderer     of 

Feckenham  forest,  221. 

,  Robert  atte,  136. 

Cf.  Riddyng. 

Rufford  [co.  Notts],  abbot  of,  44. 

Ruget,  Thomas,  chaplain,  442. 

Rugge,  le.    See  Ridge. 

Ruggoley,  Richard  de,  78. 

Ruin     Clifford,     Ruyneclifford     [by 

Stratford-on-Avon],  co.   War- 
wick, 85. 
Rumford.     See  Romford. 
Rumilly,     Romj^lh'     [France,    dep; 

Pas  de  Calais],  597. 
Rimgewode.     See  RingAvood. 
Rushburv,  co.  Salop,  Wilderhope  in, 

274. 
Rush  Court  la  Resshe    [in  All  Hal- 
lows],   CO.    Berks,   manor   of, 

559,  561. 
Rushton,  Russheton  [co.  Northamp- 
ton], 524. 


772 


OEXRHAL    INDEX. 


Rusper,      co.      Su-ssox,      KingHfold. 

Kyugosfold  in,  443. 
Russell,  Russol,  Heixry,  of  Coventry, 

472. 

,  Isolda  wife  of  William,  415. 

Nicholas,  390,  409. 

,  i^erchaut  of  Florence, 

216. 

,  Ralph,    knight,    280. 

Robert,   eschoator  in  Wor- 
cestershire,     44,      125,      127, 

138. 
,     .....     of     Worcestershire, 

80. 
,    William,       the       younger, 

415. 
Russhobroko,  William  do,  knight  of 

the  shire  of  Suffolk,  U12. 
Russheton.    See  Rushton. 
Ruston,  Ryston,  co.  Norfolk,  manor 

of,  383. 
Rutherfeld  Pipard.     See  Rothcrfield 

Peppard . 
Ruthin,  Ruthyn  [co.  Denbigh],  61, 

77. 
,  lord  of.     See  Grey,  Reynold 

de. 
Ruthyn,    Robert,    sub-constable    of 

the  Tower  of  London,  250. 
Rutland,      Roteland,      county      of, 

334. 

,  coroners  of,   162,  275. 

,  escheators  in.     See  Carneles, 

John  ;      Seymour,    Nicliolas  ; 

Warde,  Simon  de ;  Wideville, 

Richard. 

,  forest  of,  162,  236,  247. 

guardians  of  the  peace  and 

justices  of  oyer  and  terminer 

in,  134. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  100, 

289,  298,  316,  612. 
,  sheriff  of,  133,  153,  162,  236, 

275,    298. 

,  shrievalty  of,  496,  508. 

:,  taxation  in,    133,   172,  249, 

423. 
RutjTig,   Bartholomew,   of   London, 

497. 
Ruwesand,  la,  island  of,  [near  Had- 

leigh,  CO.  Essex],  573. 
Ruyhale,  Richard  de,  454. 
,  William  de,  coroner  of  Wor- 
cestershire, 162. 
RujTie Clifford.     See  Ruin  Clifford. 
Ry.     See  Rye. 

Ryal,  Ryall,  Richard,  546,  569. 
Ryby,  Agnes  wife  of  Tliomas  de,  397, 

398. 
,  Thomas  de,  397. 


Rj'choford.    See  Rocheford. 
Rychild.     See  Riohild. 
Rydolyngwolde.     See  Ringwold. 
Rye,  la  Rye  [co.  Sussex],  53,  299. 
bailiffs    of,    115,    152,    188, 

201,  406,  408. 
.mayor    of,    115,    152,    406, 

408. 
,  port  of,  keepers  of  passage 

in,  449, 
,  walls    of,    construction    of, 

406,  408. 
Rye,  Ry,  Ehzabeth  wife  of  Edmimd 

de.  knight,  336,  337. 
JuUana  wife  of  Nicholas  de, 

405. 

Nicholas  de,  337. 

.....  knight,  405. 

rye,  257,  380. 
Rykelot,  John,  349. 
Rj^kethorne,  Stephen,  356. 
Rykmeres  worth.        See     Riclcmans- 

worth. 
Rykmerleye.     See  Redmarley  Dabi- 

tot. 
RykjTigham,   Richard  de,  430. 
Rj'me.  Rym  [co.  Dorset].  12. 
Ryngeborn.  Ryngeboume.  WiUiam, 

Wilham  de,   284,   542. 

,  of  Hants,  285. 

Ryngesdon.    See  Ringstono. 
Rynoldeshegh,      Richard      son      of 

William  de,  603. 
Rypers,  Robert,  567. 
Rypynghale.     See  Repyngliale. 
Rys,  Thomas,  356. 

Cf.  Rees. 

Rysby.     See  Risby. 
Rysengles.     See  Rishangles. 
Ryssyng',  John  de,  340. 
Ryston.     See  Ruston. 
Rythe.     See  Rithe. 
Ryther,  John  de,  570, 
Ryvell,  Thomas,   609. 

Cf.  Revel. 

Ryvere,  Isabel  wife  of  Thomas  de  la, 

576,  581. 
,  John  de  la.  lord  of  Brandsby, 

576,  577. 

,  Thomas  de  la,  151,  576. 

,  .....  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Wilts,  289. 

,  .....  of  Wiltshire.  581,  582. 

,  William  son  of  John  de  la, 

576,  577. 


CJENEHAL    INDEX. 


77:5 


Sabyn,    Cicely    wife    of    Adam,    of 

Beckington,  159. 
saddles,  theft  of,  512. 
Sadiller,  Robert  lo,  355. 
SadjTigton,  Jolm  do,  449,  470. 
saffron,   3(55. 
Saffron  Walden,  Waldon,  co.  Essex, 

abbot  of,  492. 

,  manor  of,  496. 

Sagoia,  Jolm,  de  Maiorke,  seaman  of 

Genoa,  509. 
Saham,  Thomets  de,   191. 
St.  Albans  [co.  Hertford],  190.  294. 

abbot  of,  462,  463,  587. 

,  bailiffs  of,  483. 

,  deeds  dated  at,   190,  294. 

St.  Asaph  [co.  Flint],  diocese  of,  261. 
St.  Atlian,  St.  Tathan.  St.   Tatlians 

[co.    Glamorgan],    par.son    of. 

See  Flemmyng,  William. 
St.   Blaze,   co.    Cornwall,    Biscovey, 

Boswj-thgy  in,  86. 
St.  Botolph.     See  Boston. 
St.  Briavel's  castle  [co.  Gloucester], 

keeper  of.    See  Briene.  Guy  de. 
St.    Clair's     Hall    alias    Chicheridel 

[in  St.  OsythT,  co.  Essex,  fee 

in,  274. 
St.  Colan.    See  Colan. 
St.  DaA-id's  [co.  Pembroke],  bishop 

of.     See  Houghton,  Adam. 
Ste.   Marie  du  Mont.      See   Monte- 

bourg. 
St.    Ewe,    St.    Euwe,    co.    Cornwall, 

advowson  of,  35. 
St.  Gennys,  co.  Cornwall,  Cracking- 
ton,  Crakhamton  in,  86. 
St.  Giles  in  the  Wood,  co.  Devon, 

Dodscot,   Dodescote  in,    339, 

343,  523. 
St.  John  [of  Basuig],  Sancto  Johanne, 

Seint     John,    lord    de.       See 

Ponynges,  Luke  de. 
St.  Jolm  of  Jerusalem,  hospital  of, 

brethren  of,  251. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  array  of,  568. 

,  prior  of,  in  England, 

84,  204,   262.   431,  457.   462, 

463,    587.      See    also    Hales, 

Robert  de. 
,  tm'copolier  and  visitor 

of.  in  England.    See  Everton, 

RicliOTd  de. 


St.  Lazarus  of  Joinisalom,  order  of, 
433. 

St.  Mabyn,St.  Mabona,  co.  Cornwall, 
advowson  of,  560. 

,  Trevisquite,       Trevysquoyd 

in,  560. 

St.  Mary  Bisliophill,  Bisshopeshill  [in 
York],  CO.  York,  manor  of,  90. 

St.  Mary's  mass,  celebration  of,  372. 

St.  M6Ioir  des  Ondes  [dep.  Ile-et- 
Vilaino]  ?  Sanctus  Malorus, 
Seint  Malliore  in  Brittany, 
men  of,  44. 

,  parts  of,  488. 

St.  Michael  on  \V^yre,  upon  Wyi-e  [co. 
Lancaster],  parson  of.  See 
Hornbj',  William  de. 

St.  ^Michael's,  co.  Hertford,  West- 
wick  in  Ivingsbury  in,  272. 

St.  Michael's  Mount,  Mount  St. 
Michael,  co.  Cornwall,  prior 
and  convent  of,  279. 

St.  Oswald.     See  Nostell. 

St.  Osyth  alias  Chiche,  co.  Essex,  fee 
in,  492. 

,  St.  Clair's  Hall  oZiasCliicheri- 

del  in,  274. 

St.  Peter  upon  Wrethek.  See  liirby 
Bellars. 

St.  Radegimd  [by  Dover,  co.  Kent], 
abbot  of,   166. 

St.  Sauveur  le  Vicomte  [France,  dep. 
Manchc],  barony  of,  597. 

St.  Stephen's  alias  Parksokene,  co. 
Hertford,  parish  of,  535. 

St.  Tathan,  St.  Tathans.  See  St. 
Athan. 

St.  Tron  [Belgimn,  Limbourg],  cloth 
of,  325. 

St.  Veep,  CO.  Cornwall,  Maneley, 
Meinely  in,  35. 

St.  Wandi'ille  [Normandy,  dep.  Seine 
Inferieiu'e],  abbot  of,  594. 

Sakevyle,  Andrew,  knight  of  tho 
shire  of  Sussex,  101. 

Salcote.  W^alter  de,  parson  of  Great 
Horkesley,  95. 

Salcote  VirlJ^    See  Virley. 

Salden  [in  Murslcy],  co.  Bucking- 
ham, 75. 

Salesbury,  Jolm  de,  207. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  London,  the  king's 

Serjeant  at  arms,  429,  499. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  the  king's  esquire,  608. 

,  Thomas,  Thomas  de,  bur- 
gess of  Leominster  in  parlia- 
ment. 613. 

,   .  .  .  .,  knight,  546. 

,  William,  burgess  of  Leo- 
minster  in    parUament,    613. 


74 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


SrtJford,  Totor  de,   77. 

Baling,  Salyngg,  Great  [co.  Essex], 
674. 

Salisbury,  New  Sarum  [co.  Wilts], 
39,  181,  281. 

archdeaconry  of,    147. 

,  bailiffs  of,  51,  499,  599.    See 

also  Coffard,  Edmund. 

bishop      of.        See     Wivill, 

Kobert. 

,  .  .  .  . ,   lodging   of,   in   Fleet 

Street,  563. 

,  cathedral     ch\u"ch     of     St. 

Mary,  canons  of,  559.  See  also 
Byde,  William ;  Moulissh, 
Martin ;  Walsham,  Robert  de. 

,  prebend    of    Nether- 

avon  in,  22. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  prebendary  of  Chard- 
stock  in.     See  Cheyne,  John. 

,  chui'ch  of  St.  Thomas,  par- 
son of.  See  Wilton,  John 
de. 

,  citizens    of,    in    pai-liament, 

297,  317. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  281. 

.......  diocese  of,  251. 

,  earl  of.     See  Monte  Acuto, 

William  de. 

,  liberty  of,  599. 

,  mayor  of,  51.  499,  599. 

,  prison   of,   429. 

Salkeld,  Hugh  de,  verderer  of  Ingle- 
wood  forest,  363. 

,  William  de,  parson  of  Aik- 

ton,  256. 

Sail,  Salle  [co.  Norfolk],  parson  of. 
See  Cokefeld,  Adam  de  ;  Haut- 
boys, Adam  de. 

Sallewarp.     See  Salwarpe. 

Sallewarp,  William  de,  clerk,  454. 

Sallowe,  William,  565. 

Salman,  John,  292. 

,  Thomas,   of   Barkwav,   444. 

,  Walter,  607. 

,  William,   109,   116. 

Cf.  Saumon,  Selman. 

salmon,  preservation  of,  164. 

Salop,  coimty  of,  78,  80,  104,  171, 
193,  321,  547,  562,  596. 

,  coroners  of,  162.  236,  363. 

,  escheators  in.    See  Banastre, 

William  de,  of  Yorton ;  Bur- 
ton, Edmund  de  :  Lutteleye, 
Philip  de  ;  Perton,  John 
de. 

,  guardians  of  the  peace  and 

justices  of  over  and  terminer 
in,  590. 

,  issue;?  of,  207. 


Salop — cont. 

justices  of  assize  in,  466. 

,  knights  of  the  sliire  of,  101, 

289,  298,  316,  476,  612. 
service  of  keeping  the  king's 

hays  and  forests  in,  143. 
,  sheriff  of.  58,  162,  207,  209. 

236,  237,  298,  363,  373,  476, 

507. 

,  subsidy  in,  90,  423. 

salt,  58,  257.  380. 
Salteby,  Kichard  de,  92. 
Saltemerssh,  Thomas,  543. 
Saltfleethaven,      Saltflethaven,     co. 

Lincoln,  manor  of,  379. 
Saltrop,    Saltliarp    [in    Wroughton], 

CO.  Wilts,  manor  of,  163. 
salvage,  153. 
Salveyn,    Salvayn,    Gerard    son    of 

John,  of  Harswell,  knight,  84. 

,  Richard,  555,  559. 

Salwarpe,  Sallewarp,   co.  Worcester, 

manor  of,  108,  453,  454. 
Salyng,     Salyngg,     Salyngge,     Alice 

(Tuylet)  wife  of  Richard,  282. 

Richard,  Richard  de,  282. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  88. 

,  .  .  .  . ,   . .  .  . ,  mason,  89. 

Salyngg.     See  Saling,  Saljiig. 
Saman,  Robert,  349. 

Cf.  Seman. 

Samborne,  Robert,  Robert  de,  clerk, 

425. 
,  . . .  .,  parson  of  Yeovil,  329, 

330,  333. 
Samkyn,  Thomas,  Aerderer  of  Wol- 

tham  forest,   371,   522. 
Sampson,  John,  51. 
,  Walter,  merchant  of  Bristol, 

30. 
Samael,  John,  473. 
Sancto  Albano,  John  de,   alderman 

of  London,  536. 

,  Thomas  de,  of  L'.iton,  72. 

Sancto  Amando,  Amery  de.  knight, 

469. 

,   ....,....,  the  yovmger,  597. 

Sancto    Botulpho,    William    de,    of 

Heckingt.on,  307. 

Cf.  Boston. 

Sancto     Claro,     Seincler,     Seintcler, 

SejTicler,     Seyntclere,     John, 

John  de,  knight,    185. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Sussex,  289,  612. 
.....  .,  Margaret  wife  of  Richard,491. 

,  Richard,   491. 

,  Sibyl  wife  of  Robert,  491. 

,  Thomas,  Thomas  de,  274. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight,  425,  426,  492. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


77o 


Sancto  Georgio,  Soint  George,  Bald- 
win de,  171. 

, kuiglit,  587. 

Robort  son  of  Jolin  de,  251. 

Sancto  Ivono,  Adam  do,  191. 

,   .....  citizen  of  London,  321. 

Sancto  Jolianne,  Seint  Johan,  Seint 

John,    Edward,    Edward   do, 

441. 

, ,  kniglit.  448. 

,  of  Weigliton,  29G. 

See  St.  Jolm. 

Sancto  Martino.  Seint  Martjn,  Law- 
rence,   Lawrence   de,   knight, 

76,  83,  196,  280. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shiro  of 

Wilts,  289,  297,  316. 
Sancto  Ncoto,  John  de,  338. 

,  .  .  .  .,  clerk,  466. 

Sancto  Oniero,  Thomas  de,  knight, 

340. 
Sancto  Paiilo,  Mary  de,  countess  of 

Pembroke,  82,  224,  295. 
Sancto       Quintino,      William      de, 

kniglit,  95. 
Sancto   Trudo,    Conrad   de,    of    Al- 

niain,    325. 
sanctuary.  223.  228. 
Sanctus  Malorus.    See  St.  Meloir  des 

Ondes. 
Sandeacre.     See  Sandiacre. 
Sandeacre,  Richard  son  of  William 

son    of   Henry   de,    chaplain, 

368. 
,  William  son  of  Richai'd  de, 

368. 
Sandewic.     See  Sandwich. 
Sandford,  Edmund  de,  466.  473,  474. 

,  John,  78. 

,  Thomas  de.  296. 

,  William   de,   clerk,    90,    93, 

532. 

, ,  the  elder,  432,  466. 

, ....,  clerk,  473,  474. 

,   .  .  .  .,  the  younger,  466,  473, 

474. 
Sandherst.     See  Sandliurst. 
Sandhill  in  Newcastle-upon-TjTie  [co. 

Nortlumiberland].    343. 
Sandhurst,  Sandliorst,  Ivo,  Ivo  de, 

496,  508,  600,  601. 

of  Writtle,  602. 

Margery  wife  of  Ivo  de,  600, 

602. 
Sandiacre,     Sandeacre,     co.    Derby, 

368. 
Sandon,  co.  Essex,  advowson  of,  560, 
Sandre,  John,  409. 

Cf.  Saundro. 

Sandton.     See  Santon. 


SandwcU    [\n   West    Bromwich,    co. 

Stafford],  John,  prior  of,  288. 
Sandwich,    Sandowic,    Sandwic    [co. 

Kont],  50,  230,  233,  299,  399, 

410. 
,  bailiffs  of,  115,  188,  201,  230, 

414,     516,     517.       See     also 

Cundy,  John  son*  of  William. 
,  coast  of,  called  the  Downs, 

404. 
collectors    of    customs    and 

.subsidies  at,  414,  516,  517. 
mayor  of,  115,  188,  230,  414, 

516,  517. 

,  men  of,  541. 

,  port  of,  188,  399,  400,  562. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  keepers  of  passage  in , 

314,  331,  423,  449,  562,  594. 

,  the  king's  ship  at,  461. 

Santon,   Sandton  [in  Braunton,  co. 

Devon],  fee  in,  523. 
Santon,  Thomas  de,  459,  461. 
Sapcote,  Sapecote,  co.  Leicester,  108, 

274,  458,  468,  486. 

,  fee  in,  274. 

Saperton,     Roger,     Roger     de,     98, 

100. 

,  ....  sou  of  Roger  de,  35. 

, warden   of    the 

Fleet  prison,  36. 
Sark,     Serk,    island   of,    keeper    of. 

See  Huwet,  Walter. 
Sarland,      Thomas,      merchant      of 

Lucca,  414. 
Sarnesfeld,  Thomas  de,  189. 
Sarum,  Xew.    See  Salisbury, 
,  Old    [co.    Wilts],    castle    of, 

constable  of,  323. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  repair  of,  218. 

I     Saumon,  Richard,  533. 

Cf.  Salman. 

Saundre,  Richard,   585. 

Cf.  Sandre. 

Sauston,  Elizabeth  de,  493. 
Sautre.    See  Sawtry. 
I     Savage,  Arnald,  552. 

, ,  knight,  340,  433,  552. 

,  Eleanor  wife  of  Arnald,  552. 

,  John,  46. 

,  William,   465. 

Savernake,     Savernak     forest     [co. 

Wilts],    155. 
,  South    Side,    Suthgrove    in, 

155. 
Sawj'er,  Gilbert.  465. 
Sawtry,    Sautre    [co.    Hmitingdon], 

Thomas,  abbot  of,  590. 
Saxham,  Thomas  de,  492,  493. 
Saxton,  Robert  de,  95. 
,  Thomas  de,  95. 


t  4I 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Say,  Geoffrey  de,  37. 

Jolui,  John  de,  John  le,  194, 

493,  559. 

, coroner  for  Oxford- 
shire, 216. 

,  Maud  wife  of  Geoffrey  de, 

37. 

Thomas,  559. 

,  William  do,  knight,   309. 

,  ....  son  of  Geoffrey  de,  37. 

Sayer,  Jolm,  2. 

,   ....  brother  of  Ridiard,  2. 

Richard  son  of  John,  2. 

Sayville,  Jolm,  knight,  308. 

Scaldwell,  Scaldewell  [co.  Northamp- 
ton], 610. 

Scales,  Roger  de,  lord  of  Newsells, 
560. 

Scallir,  Wilham,  213. 

Scampston,  Scamston  [in  Rilhngton], 
CO.  York,  112. 

Scampton,  Skampton  [co.  Lincoln], 
388. 

Scamston.     See  Scampston. 

Scania,  parts  of  Scone,  Skene  in 
Swetho,  [Sweden,  provinces 
of  Malmo  and  Cliristianstad], 
42,  467. 

Scarborough,  Scardeburgh,  co.  York, 
44. 

,  bailiffs  of,  27,  115,  482. 

,  burgess    of,    in    parliament, 

299. 

,  mayor  of,  115. 

,  port  of,  27. 

scarlet,  rent  of,  355. 

Scarthyn  Rode,  Hervey,  483. 

Scelford.     See  Shelford. 

Schaldeford.     See  Slialford. 

Scharprixe,  Sharpryxsh  by  Lemyn- 
ton  [near  Walhampton  in 
Lymington],  manor  of,  214. 

Schelwe.     See  Shellow  Bowells. 

Schoonvorst,  Shonevorst  [near 
Ypres,  W.  Flanders],  lord  of, 
314. 

Schropham.     See  Shropham. 

Scilly,  Sully,  island  of,  91,  93. 

Scluse,  le  Scluse.     See  Sluys. 

Scoland,  Clarice  wife  of  Henry,  475. 

,  Emelina  wife  of  Frank,  475. 

,  Frank  de,  435. 

,     .  .  . . ,    of    Cathanger,    474, 

475. 

,  Henry  father  of  Frank,  475. 

Scolehalle,  John,  81. 

Scone.     See  Scania. 

Scoot.     See  Scot. 

ScorfhuUe  [near  Great  Torrington  ?], 
CO.  Devon,  342. 


Scot,  Scoot,  Scotte,  Scut,  Skot,  Skut, 
John,  kniglit,  586. 

,  merchant  of  Aber- 
deen, 64. 

,  Ralpli,  of  Welham,  239. 

Richard,  471. 

, ,  draper,  323. 

,   merchant,  45. 

Thomas,  of  Craike,  159,  255. 

Scoteneyp,  Ricliard,  388. 

Scotherskelf,  John,  Jolm  de,  clerk, 
102,  536. 

,  escheator  in  Cumber- 
land, 4. 

,   ....  in  Yorkshire,  7, 

45,  133,  141,  235,  491. 

Scotland.  27,  52,  64,  65,  130,  296, 
484,  529,  610. 

,  assignment     of     dower    in, 

enrolled  in  England,  63. 

,  coinage  of,  320. 

,  ..  ..,     exclusion    of,     from 

England,   482,   608,   609. 

,  destruction  -wTought  by  men 

of,  155,  156,  209,  210,  211. 

,  envoys  from,   27. 

,  law  and  custom  of,  63. 

,  march  of,  defence  of,  3,  61, 

463,  464. 

,  .  .  .  .,  march  days  of,  211. 

,  merchants  of,  27,  129. 

ransom  of  David  de  Bruys 

of,  211. 

,  service  of  finding  one  third 

of  armed  man  in,  146. 

,  the  king's  enemies  in,  4. 

,  truce  with,  27,  338. 

Scotte.     See  Scot. 

Scotton,  William  de,  79. 

Scridehay  [co.  Devon  ?],  603. 

Scrivan,  John,  551. 

Scrivelsby,  Scry^'elby,  co.  Lincoln, 
manor  of,  379. 

Scrope,  Scroup.     See  Lescrope. 

Scryvelby.     See  Scrivelsby. 

Scudamore.      See   Escudemour. 

Scures,  John  de,  551. 

Scut.    See  Scot. 

scutage.     See  taxation. 

sea  coast,  defence  of,  202. 

Seaford,  Sefforde,  Seford,  co.  Sussex, 
21. 

,  burgess  of,  in  parliament,  297. 

Seagrave,  Segrave,  co.  Leicester, 
lady  of.  <See  Mareschal,  Mar- 
garet. 

,  manor  of,  374. 

Seal,  laSele  [co.  Kent],  manor  of,  82. 

,  la    Sele    [co.    Sussex],   prior 

and  monks  of,  238. 


GENERAL    LNDEX. 


777 


seals  : — 

cocket,  11,  150,  207. 
counterfeit,  13,  421,  422. 

,  for  sealing  cloth,  88. 

delivery  of,  to  attorney,  71. 
disiLsecl,  placed  in  treasiuy,  90. 
for  sealing  cloth,  88,  00,  133. 

wool,  170. 

great,  94,  365. 

,  change  of,  upon  voyage 

of  king  over  seas,  461. 

,  delivery  of,  221,  287. 

,  procedure    as    to,     on 

death  of  chancellor,   445. 
inscriptions  on,  288. 
of  exchequer,  33,  118. 
price  of,  239. 

privy,  clerk  of.    See  Lacy,  Peter 
de. 

,  delivery  of,  288. 

,  forgery  of,  501. 

,  keeper  of.     See  Carreu, 

Nicholas. 

,  letters  of,  527. 

,  office  of,  94,  303. 

,  writs  of,  43,  87, 144,  360. 

robbery  of,  268,  269. 
stj'le  of,  alteration   of,  94. 
used  in  Ireland,  231,  246,  265, 
365,  395,  411. 
Seatlie,  William  atte,  189. 
Seaton  Ross,  Seton  in  SpaldjTigmere, 
CO.  York,  542. 

,  deed  dated  at,  543. 

,  manor  of,   542. 

Seckington,  Sekjnidon,  co.  Warwick, 

140. 
secrets  of  the  realm,  revelation  of,  63. 
Sedgeford,      co.      Norfolk,      Eaton, 

Gnatyngton  in,  175. 
See,  Richard  del,  465. 
Seend,  Sende,  co.  Wilts,  manor  of. 

496. 
Seete,  Thomas,  319. 
SefTorde,   Seford.     See  Seaford. 
Sefton,  CO.  Lancaster,  Crosby,  Cros- 
seby  in,  230. 

,  Ince,  Ines  Blundell  in,  230. 

Seggeford,  Thomas  de.  174,  175. 

Seghain,  Richard  de,  74. 

Segiswyk,     Adam     de,     coroner     of 

Cmnberland,  235. 
Segrave.     See  Seagrave. 
Segrave,  Amabel  de,  219. 

,  Geoffrey  de,  339,  552. 

,  Hugh  de,  knight,  453,  454, 

455,  497. 

,  John  de,  374-377. 

,  Margaret  wife  of  John  de, 

374-377. 


Segrave — cont. 

,  Stephen  de,  219,  220. 

Segiu"a,  John  do,  shipniaster,  envoy, 

112. 
Segj'ndon,     Sekyndon,    Robert    de, 

clerk,  140. 
,  .  .  .  .,  parson  of  Normanton, 

562. 
seignorage,    107,    194. 
Seincler,  Seintcler.    See  Sancto  Clai'o. 
Soint  Elyne,  Alice  wife  of  Philip,  of 

Berksi'ire,  584,  585,  592. 

,  William  son  of  Phili}),  585. 

Seinte  Mario  Paryssh.     See  Hoo  St. 

Mary. 
Seintemariewik,         Seintemariewyk. 

See  Week  St.  Mary. 
Seint  Gtsorge.     See  Sancto  Georgio. 
Seint  Johan,   Seint   John.      See  St. 

John,  Sancto  Johanne. 
Seint  Mallioro.     See  St.  M^loir  des 

Ondes. 
Seint  Martyn.     See  Sancto  Martino. 
Seint  Michael,  Idonea  wife  of  Simon, 

598. 

,  Ralph  son  of  Simon,  598. 

,  Simon,  lord  of  Cuddington, 

kiiight,  alias  Simon  de  Cod- 

j-ngton,  598. 

,  William  son  of  Simon,  598. 

Cf.  CodjTigton. 

Sekyndon.     See  Seckington,  Segyn- 

don. 
Seland.    See  Zealand,  Zeeland. 
Seland,  James,  hostler  of  London,260. 
Selander,  CobjTius,  of  Caunfare,  362. 
Selby  [co.  York],  413. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  85. 

,  chapter-house       of,       deed 

acknowledged  in,  566. 

,  convent  of,   566. 

,  John  abbot  of,  471,  566. 

,  monks  of.    See  Alkebarowe, 

Simon     de  ;     HeInJ^lgbu^gh, 

John  de. 
Selby,  John  de,  of  London,  537. 
,  Roger  de,  mayor  of  York, 

59,  539. 
Sele,  la.     See  Seal. 
Selewode.     See  Selwood. 
Sehnan,  Egidia  daughter  of  Isabel, 

17. 

,  Greorge,  17. 

Cf.  Salman. 

Selwood,  Selewode  forest  [co.  Somer- 
set], trespasses  in,   150. 
verderor    of.      See   Mauger, 

John. 
Sely,  John,  285.  338. 
Cf.  Cely. 


778 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Seman,  William,  427. 

Cf.  Saiuau. 

Semero,  John,  of  Guildford,  334. 

,  Poter,  334. 

burgess  of  Guildford  in 

parliament,    290,    297. 
Sompringham,      Sompjnigliam      [co. 

Lincoln],  liouso  of  St.  Gilbert 

of,  canons  of,  named,  228. 

,  master  of  order  of,  228. 

Senche.    See  Souchc. 

sendal,  dearness  of,  136. 

Sende.     See  Seond. 

Septvans,  William  son  of  William  do, 

9,  10. 
Sergaunt,  Sergeant,  Sergeaimt,  Ser- 

jant,  Jolm,  259. 

,  Maud  wife  of  Geof!i-ey,  329. 

,  Nicholas,  citizen  of  Dublin, 

246,  265. 

,  Robert,  552. 

,  William,  citizen  of  Dublin, 

246. 
Serk.    See  Sark. 
Serleby,  Jolm  de,  605. 
services  : — 

finding  one  footman  in  Mont- 
gomery castle  during  war  in 

Wales,  62. 
one  third  of  armed  man 

in  Scotland,  146. 
keeping    and   mewing    one    of 

the  king's  hawks,  137. 

Morf  forest,  142. 

one  of  the  king's  grey- 

hoxmds,  364. 
Suthgrove  in  Savernake 

Forest,  155. 
Teddesley  Hay  in  Can- 
nock Forest,  137. 
the     king's     hays     and 

forests  in  Salop,  143. 
rendering  a  sore  sparrowhawk, 

377. 
5s.  3d.  a  year  to  cornage, 

147. 
10s.  a  year  to  the  ward 

of  Dover  castle,  2. 
2s.  2d.  every  24th  week 

to  ward  of  Dover  castle,  210. 
Setene,  la,  m  Pagham,   co.   Sussex, 

76. 
Seton.     See  Seaton. 
Seton,  John  de,  592. 

Cf.  Seyton. 

Seville,     Sibille,    Sivile    in     Castile 

[Spain],  30. 

,  prisoners  at,   112. 

Sevington,    Sevyngton    [co.    Kent], 

Nicholas  rector  of,  332. 


Sewalo,  Sewall,  Thomas,  Thomas  de, 
85,  565,  587. 

escheator  in  Bidford- 

shiro,  358,  376,  377,  392. 

,....,   ....   in   Buckingham- 

;  shire,  272,  273,  358,  368,  375, 

I  406. 

in  Cambridge- 
shire, 273,  358,  375,  376,  411, 
412. 

,  ....  in  Huntingdon- 
shire, 358,  375,  376. 

,    ....  in   Oxfurdshire, 

363. 

Sewardesley,    Sewardesle  priory  [in 
;  Easton    Neston],    co.    North- 

ampton, advowson  of,  47. 

Sexpen,  Thomas,  76. 

Seymom*,  Seymor,  Jolm,  87,  161. 

,  Nicholas,  388. 

,  escheator  in  North- 
amptonshire, 418,  500. 

I      ,....,....  in  Rutland,  418, 

}  521. 

I      ,  Richard  son  of  Nicholas,  367. 

Seyncler.     See  Sancto  Claro. 

SejTilo,  John  de,  the  son,  knight,  80. 

Seyntclere.     See  Sancto  Claro. 

Seynt  Manefu,  Manjrfe,  Thomas  de, 
83,  551. 

Seys,  John,  clerk,  84,  85. 

Seyton,  John  de,  knight,  547. 

Cf.  Seton. 

Shadworth,  John,  293. 

Shaftesbury,  Shefte  [co.  Dorset],  80. 

,  abbess  of,  171. 

,  All   Saints'  church,  Henry, 

I  parson  of,  80. 

I      ,  biu-gess    of,    in    parliament, 

298. 
I      ,  Danielesfeld  in,   80. 

,  Joan,   abbess,   and  convent 

of,  80. 

,  prebend    of    Liddington    in 

church  of,  171. 

,  prior  of  [hospital  of],  552. 

,  St.  Lawrence,  parish  of,  80. 

,  St.  Rowald's  chiirch,  David 

parson  of,  80. 
,     Shagh.    See  Shaw. 

Shakenhurst,  Walter  de,  108. 

Shakerlye,  Richard  de,   154. 

Shalford,  Schaldeford,  Shaldeford,  co. 
Essex,  575,  609. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  609. 

shambles,  31,  32,  178. 
I     Shank,  John,  83. 

Shardelowe,  John,  492,  493,  591. 

knight  of  the  shire  of 

Suffolk,  476. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


770 


Slmrdclowc — cont. 

,  Thomas  do,  536. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight,  457,  492,  565, 

587. 

Shareshill,  Sliaresliull,  Adam  do,  145, 
156. 

Joan  (Fieules)  wifo  of  Adam 

do,  156. 

Jolin  do,  parson  of  Wjrar- 

disbiuy,  156. 

Sharp,  Jolm,  the  king's  moneyer,  306. 

,  ^\'i^ialn,  468. 

yharpryxsli  by  LomjTitoix.  See 
Scliarprixc. 

Shathewell.     Sec  Shawell. 

Shaugli,  CO.  Devon,  Fernliill,  Forn- 
luillc,  393. 

Shaw,  Sliagh  [in  Heaton  in  Brad- 
ford, CO.  York],  97. 

Shawe,  Kiciiard,  clerk,  303. 

,  Steplien,  398. 

Shawell,  Shathewell,  co,  Warwick 
[rectius  co.  Leicester],  182, 
183,  184,  185. 

Sheen.     See  Richmond. 

sheep,  243,  257,  380. 

Sheepsliead,  Shepeshed,  co.  Leicester, 
351. 

Sheet  Hedges,  Shetohegges  [in  New- 
to\\-n  Lindford],  co.  Leicester, 
351. 

Sheffeld,  John  de,  knight,  141. 

Reynold,   341. 

Shefte.    See  Shaftesbury. 

Sheinton,  Sheynton,  co.  Salop,  manor 
of,  208. 

Sheldwich,  Sheldwych,  co.  Kent,  20. 

Shelford,  Scelford,  co.  Nottingham, 
390,  487. 

,  prior  of,  390    487. 

Little,    CO.    Cambridge,    ad- 

vowson  of,  411. 

,  .  .  .  .,  manor  of,  411. 

,  . .  . . ,  parson  of.    See  Barne- 

ton,  John  de. 

Shelford,  Jolm  de,  478. 

Shellow  Bowells,  Schelwe  [co.  Essex], 
562. 

Shellyngford,  John,  323. 

Shelton,  John  de,  427. 

,  Ralph  de,  assessor  of  sub- 
sidy, 489. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight,  444. 

,  .  .  .  .,  son  of  Ralph  de,  17. 

Shenley,  Shenle,  co.  Buckingham,  54. 

,  Shenlee,  Shonele.  co.  Hert- 
ford, 535. 

,  .  .  .  .,  manor  of,  182-185. 

Shenton,  ShejTiton  [in  Market  Bos- 
worth],  CO.  Leicester,  60. 


Shop'.  Roger,  351. 
Shepolake.     See  Sliiplako. 
ShoiJeshed.     See  SJicepshead. 
Shepoyo,  John  dv,  578. 
Shepherd,  Walter,  527. 

,  Williuiii,  356. 

Shephordson,  John,  521. 
Sliepliird,  le,  name  of  jewel,  342. 
Sh(!plak.     See  Shiplako. 
Slicpton  Beauchamp  [co.  Somerset], 

331. 
Sherborne,  Shirljourne  [co.  Dorset], 

abbot  and  convent  of,  596. 
,  Shirebourne,  Shireburne  [co. 

York],  391. 
Shorefordo,  William,  343. 
sheriff's  clerk,  diu'ation  of  office  of,  6. 
Sheriffs    Lench,    Shirroveslonch    [in 

Cluu'ch  Lench],  co.  Worcester, 

manor  of,  108,  468. 
Sherman,  LawTence,  seaman,  20. 

Cf.  Sireman. 

Shermanbury,     ShjTemanbviry    [co. 

Sussex],  deed  dated  at,   174. 
Sheruesbiry.     See  Shrewsbiuy. 
Sherwood,     Shirewode     forest,     co. 

Nottingham,  regard  of,   439. 
Shetehegges.     See  Sheet  Hedges. 
Sheynton.     See  Sheinton,   Shenton. 
Sheynton,  Hawise  sister  of  WilUam 

de,  208. 
,  Joan   (le   Botiller)  sister  of 

William  de,  208. 
,  Margaret  (le  Child)  sister  of 

Wilham  de,  208. 

William  de,  clerk,  208. 

Shibbourne.     See  Shipbourne. 
Shifnal  alias  Ideshale,  co.  Salop,  ad- 

vowson  of,  409. 

,  manor  of,  63,  415. 

,  parson  of.     See  Harleston, 

Jolin  de. 

,  Bernehondesacre    in,    409. 

,  Stanton  in,  415. 

Shillingford,  Sliilljaigford,  TliilljTig- 

forde      [in      Bamptonl,      co. 

Devon,  523. 

,  fee  in,  339. 

ShilljTig.     See  Billing. 
ShilljTigford.     See  Shillingford. 
Shiltewode,   William  de,   parson   of 

Childrey,  597. 
Shipbourne,   Shibboiutie,   co.   Kent, 

manor  of,  344. 
Shiplake,    Shepelake,    Sheplak,    co. 

Sussex,  hundred  of,  105,  271. 
Sliipley,  00.  Sussex,  Ivnapp  in,  261. 
Sliipmeadow,    Shipmedwe,    co.    Suf- 
folk, 565. 
,  manor  of,  565. 


r80 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


bliips,    10,  27,  32,  34,  50,  51,  59,  65, 

114,   116,   126,   130,   136,   144, 

154,  161,  214,  216,  226,  229, 

245,  258,  308,  369,  371,  383, 

389,  409,  412,  467,  488,  496, 

497,   516,   520,   525. 
,  arrest  of,  65,  132,  154,  167, 

225,  226,  362,  502. 

,  barges,  579. 

,  cocche,  209,  213,  216. 

,  craj'ers,  52,  53,  517. 

.  . ,  French  fleet  of,   36,   39,  58, 

61,    124,    151,    152,    158,   203, 

220,  276,  385,  436,  579. 
furnished  by   Cinque    Ports, 

25,  370,  384. 

,  galleys,  508,  579. 

houkebot,  225. 

,  little,  169. 

of  Bristol,  518. 

of  Brittany,  33. 

of  Calais,  226. 

of  Flanders,  27,  447. 

of  Genoa,  230,  233. 

of  navy  of  England,  177,  181. 

,  extortion    by  masters 

of,  439. 

of  Normandy,  27. 

of  Spain,  30,  113. 

of  tile  northern  fleet,  admirals 

of.     See  Ferrariis,  Ralph  de  ; 

Tamworth,  Nicliolas  de. 

of  the  western  fleet,  30. 

admirals  of.   See  Aston, 

Robert  de  ;    Courtney,  Philip 

de. 

of  Venice,  414. 

of  war,  263. 

,  proliibition    of    sale    of,    to 

aliens,  357. 
,  provision  for  safety  of,  109, 

110. 
,  regulations    for,    in   treaty, 

301. 

,  shouts,  389. 

,  tarits,  209,    213,    216,    368, 

399,  414. 

,  the  king's,  461. 

ships  named  : — 
Elianore,  44. 

Godberaet,  of  Lubeck,  385. 
Godwyle,  of  Zierickzee,  382. 
la  Beyard,  213. 
la  Bone  Huere,  of  Sluys,  225. 
la  Cristofre,  of  Sluys,  169. 
la  Edmund,  of  Harwich,  227. 
la  Faucoun,  of  Plymouth,  53. 
la  Grace  de  Dieu,  the  king's  ship, 

461. 
la  Grace  Dieu,  of  London,  516. 


ships  nam<  d — cont. 

la  Hoijbote,  of  Flanders,  20. 

la  James,  of  Genoa,  508. 

la  Katerine,  of  Beaumaris,  154. 

la  Made  Sterling,  488. 

la  Magdeleyn,  of  Sluys,  130. 

la  Marie,  of  London,  467. 

la  Seint  Crois,  of  Portugal,  270. 

la  Seinte  C'royce,  of  Gatteville, 

261. 
la   Seinte   Marie,    of    Baj'onne, 
368. 

,  of  Portugal,  270. 

,of  Sluys,  152,  225. 

,  of  Zeeland,  64. 

la  Seinte  Mariecogg,  of  Harder- 
wick,  404. 
la  Seint  Johan,  of  Bayonne,  153. 
la  Seint  Martyn,  of  Lisbon,  270. 
la  Seint  Michael,   of   Portugal, 

270,  509. 
le  Clement,  of  Bristol,  30. 
le  Margarete,  of  Plymouth,  30. 
le  Seint  Marie,  of  Mvmdaca,  30. 
le  Welefare,  of  Bristol,  30. 
Seint  Marie  Magdalene,  213. 
Seint  Marie,  of  Westkappellen, 
27. 
Sliipton,  Roger,  clerk,  559. 

Cf.  Shupton. 

Shipton   under  Wychwood,  co.  Ox- 
ford,  Lyneham,   Lj^nham  in, 
145,  156,  157. 
shipwTeck,  27,  64,  130. 
Shirborne.    See  Shirburn. 
Shirborne,  Shirbourne,  Nicholas  de, 

43. 
,  Richard,  goldsmith,  of  Win- 
Chester,  371. 

,  William,  parson  of  Fulham, 

474. 
Shirbourne.       See    Sherborne,    Shir- 
borne. 
Shirbxu-n,     Shirborne,     co.     Oxford, 

manor  of,  557,  581. 
Shirebourne,  Sliireburne.     See  Sher- 
!  borne. 

'     Shirewode.     See  Sherwood. 

Shirland,  co.  Derby,  manor  of,  163. 
Shirlond,    Amaury    de,    parson    of 

Boxworth,  70. 
Shirreveslench.     See  Sheriffs  Lench. 
Shirwode,  Shyrwode,  John  de,  79. 

I      ,  Ralph  de,  332. 

I      ,  William,  206. 

Shitlington,    Shutlyngton   [co.    Bed- 
ford], parson  of.     See  Aston, 
Matthew  de. 
Sholdham,  Rej-nold  de,  searcher  of 
forfeitures  at  Kirkley,  258. 


GEXERAL    INDEX. 


781 


Slioloford  mill  [in  Groat  Torrington  ?], 

CO.  Devon,  343. 
Shonelo.     See  Shenley. 
Shonovorst.     See  Schoonvorst. 
ShoiJlaiid,  Shopolond,  co.  Essex,  407. 

,  manor  of,   408. 

Heyward  marsh  in,  408. 

Shordich,  Sordych,  John,  105. 
,  .  .  .  .,  kniglit  of  the  sliire  of 

Middlesex,  476. 
Shoroham,  Shorliam  [co.  Kent],  583. 

, Nortlimede  in,  442. 

[co.  Sussex].  328. 

,   bailiffs   of,    115,   264. 

324,  325,  328. 
,  burgesses  of,  in  parlia- 
ment, 297. 
, ,    piracy   off,   324,  325, 

328. 
,  .....    port    of,    keepers    of 

passage  in.  449. 
,      Erringham,     Irjng- 

hame  in,  405,  407. 
Shorne,  William,  the  king's  moneyer, 

306. 
Short,  Robert,  343. 
Shorten,  Jolin  de,  parson  of  Arksey, 

429. 
Shorwell,      South,      Southshorewell, 

Isle  of  Wight,  manor  of,  214. 
Shotesbroko,  Gilbert.  Gilbert  de,  581, 

597. 
Shottery,   Shotrythe  [in  Old  Strat- 
ford, CO.  Warwick],  85. 
Shrawley,  Shraueleye,  co.  Worcester, 

manor  of,  127. 
Shiewsbiu-y,    co.    Salop,    abbot  and 

convent  of.  340. 

,  bailiffs  of,  23. 

bursess    of,    in    parliament, 

298.  ^ 
Shrewsburj-,  Sheruesbiry,  Rolph  de, 

bishop    of    Bath    and   Wells, 

425. 

,  William  de,  o~y. 

Shropham,     Schropham,     John    de, 

chaplain,  94,  95,  96,  285,  425, 

426. 
Shudy  Camps,  co.  Cftmbridge,  01m- 

stead,  Olmestede  in,  589. 
Shupton,   John,  de,  prevost  of  the 

chapel    of    St.    Elizabeth    by 

Winchester,  26. 

Cf.  Shipton. 

ShutljTigton.    See  Shith-ngton. 
ShjTemanbury.      See  Shermanbury. 
Sh^Twode.     See  Shirwode. 
Sibbesseye.    See  Sibsey. 
Sibbeton.     See  Sibton. 
Sibille.    See  SeA-ille. 


'     Sibille,     Svbille,     Sybylo,     Sybylle, 

.lohu.  182,  184,  185,  536. 
I     Sible  Hedingliam.     See  Hedingham. 
Sibsey,    Sibbesseye,    Sybbessey,    co. 

Lincoln,   338. 
Sibson,  CO.  Leicester,  Ujiton  in,  273. 
Sibton,   Sibbeton  [in.  Lyminge],   co. 

Kent,  manor  of,  73,  446. 
Sidmouth,    Sidomuth    [co.    Devon], 
keeixrs  of  passage  in  port  of, 
449. 
.sigia  po.sts,  erection  of,  592. 
Sigor,  Alice,  349. 

Sileby,  co.  Leicester,  manor  of,  374. 
silk,  rent  of,  351. 

Silkby,  Silkeby  by  Lafford   [in  Silk 
WiUoughby,  co.  Lincoln],  307. 
silver,  34,  42. 

,  assay  of  vessels  of,  1 . 

currency  of,  303,  304. 

,  mines  of,  106,  195,  563. 

moneys,  marks  on,  305. 

,  prohibition     of     export    of, 

114,  115,  228. 

I      ,  ship  carrying,  27. 

'     Silverle,  John,  411. 
Silverlok,  Peter,  82,  560. 
Silverstone,  Silveston,  co.  Xorthamp- 

ton,  47. 
Silvestre,  Stephen,  bailiff  of  Norwich, 

222. 
SilvejTi,  Sylve^Ta,  Roger,  331,  537. 
Simon.    See  Fitz  Simon. 
Simond.     See  Fitz  Simond. 
Sireman,     Robert,    coroner    of    co. 
Wilts,  413. 

Cf.  Sherman. 

Sittingbourne,    Sydjiigboume,    Syd- 
yngburn,  co.  Kent,  200. 

,  Henry,  vicar  of,  332. 

Si  vile.    See  Se\nlle. 

Sixtenby.  John  de,  chaplain,  533. 

'      ,  William  de,  chaplain,  533. 

;     Siwell,  John,  of  Pisford,  187. 
Skampton.     See  Scampton. 
Skellow,    SkeUale    [in    Owston,    co. 
York],  471. 
.     Skelton,  co.  York  [N.R.].  536. 

j      ,  ....,    Kilton,    Thorpkilton 

in.  139. 

,  Skelton  bv  York,  co.  York 

[N.  and  E.R.],  141. 

!      , ,  deed  dated  at,  103. 

'      ,  manor  of,  102. 

Skelton,  Nicholas  de,  193. 

Thomas  de,  of  Cumberland, 

421. 
Sket,  Ralph,  citizen  of  Norwich,  222. 
Skidbrook,    Skydbrok,    co.    Lincoln, 
manor  of,  379. 


782 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Skillington,  Skylyngton,  co.  Lincoln, 

92. 
Skillyng,  SkyUyng,  Micliael,  82,  28L 

335,  542,  543,  590. 
,  .  .  .  . ,    tlio    king's   attorney, 

suitor  for  the  king,  157,  240, 

27L  364. 
Skilycorno,  Adam,  355. 
Skinningrove,       Skynnergrefe,      co. 

York,  manor  of,  393. 
Skiprigg  [in  Dalston],  co.  Cumber- 
land, 521. 
Skijiton,  CO.  York,  Stirton,  Stretton 

in  Craven  in,  576. 
Skipwytli,    Skypwyth,    William    de, 

knight,  380,  554. 
Skirbek,  James  do,  of  Boston,  567, 

568,  571. 
Skone.     See  Scania. 
Skot.    See  Soot. 
Skothowe,    Jolm,    of   Field   Dalling, 

459,  460. 

Cf.  Slothowe. 

Skut.     See  Scot. 
Skydbrok.     See  Skidbrook. 
Skyllyng.     See  Skillyng. 
Skylyngton.     See  Skillington. 
Skynnere,  John,  534. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  New  Sleaford,  535. 

,  Peter,  of  London,  484. 

,  Thomas,  bui'gess  of  Shrews- 

biu'y  in  parliament,  298. 
Skynnergi'efe.     See  Skinningrove. 
Skypwj'th.     See  Skipwyth. 
Slane    [co.    Meath],    baron   of.      See 

Flcmmyng.  Simon. 
,  manor  and  barony  of,  395, 

396. 

,  new  castle  of,  39.5,  396. 

Slapton,  CO.  Buckingham,  447,  448. 
slaughterhouse,     provision     of,      for 

London,  31.  32,  178. 
Sleaford,  New  Lafford,  New  Sleford 

[co.  Lincoln],  534,  535. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  534,  535. 

,  Eastgate,  east  street  of,  534. 

,    Holdingham,   Haldyngham 

in,  534. 
,  market    place,    marketstede 

of.  534. 
,  Northgate,  north   street  of, 

534. 

,  St.  Mary's  chapel  in,  534. 

,  the  sheriff's  mill  in,   534. 

,  Old,   Old  Lafford   [in   Slea- 
ford, CO.  Lincoln],   306,   534, 

535. 
Sleford,    John    de,    keeper    of    the 

king's  wardrobe  in  the  Tower 

of  London,  57. 


Sleford,  John  de — cont. 

,  king's  clerk,  41,  208, 

292. 

,  Tlmmas  de,  534. 

,  WiUiam  de,  of  Lincoln.shire, 

420. 
Sleghtre,  William  de,  116. 

Cf.  Sloughtre. 

Slone,    Roger    de,    coroner    of    co. 
Lancaster,   363. 

William  do,  416. 

,   .  .  .  .,  clerk,  453,  465. 

Slephill,  JoJm  de,  of  Campsall,  579. 
Sloby,    Slotheby,    Williani   de,    396, 
469. 

,    parson    of    Thcddle- 

tliorpe,  397,  446. 
Slooman,  Brian,  chaplain,  174. 
Slory,  Slori,  John,  307,  534. 

, ,  of  Old  Sleaford,  535. 

Slotheby.     See  Sloby. 
Slothowe,  John,  483. 

Cf.  Skothowe. 

Sloughtre,     John    de,    collector    of 
subsidy,   527. 

Cf.  Sleghtre. 

Sluys,  le  ScliLse,  Lescluse  in  Flanders, 
Scluse,  27,  231,  233. 

,  burgesses   and  commonalty 

of,  226. 

,  merchants  of,  225. 

,  ships  of,  130,  152,  169,  225. 

Smalbergh,  William  de,  knight    340. 

Smale,  Agnes,  82. 

Smaleman,  Emma  wife  of  John,  601. 

,  John,  of  Y'atesbiu'y,  601. 

,  Reynold  son  of  John,  601. 

Smalwode,    William,    merchant    of 

London,  30. 
Smart,  Smert,  John,  187,  418. 

,  WilHam,  of  Cambridgeshire, 

540. 
Smelt,  Richard,  186. 
Smert.     See  Smart. 
Smethedon.     See  Smithdon. 
Smith,  Sm^iih,  Amice,  356. 

Edward,  of  London,  594. 

Hugh,  343. 

Jolin,  232. 

. .  .  . ,  of  Maidenhead.  533. 

Reynold,  chaplain,  455. 

Richard,  292. 

,  of  Carleton,  607. 

.  .  .  . ,   of   Scampton,    388. 
Robert,  456. 
Rose  wife  of  John,  533, 
Stephen,  466. 
William,  343,  424.  472. 

,  of  Barton,  591,  592. 

,  of  Gissing,  378. 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


783 


Smitlidon,  Smethedou  liundred,  co. 
Norfolk,  constable  of,  490. 

Smyt,  William,  352. 

Cf.  Smith. 

Snaith,  Sm\yth,  co.  York,  190,  480. 

,  manor  of,  139. 

Snayntou.     See  Sneinton. 

Sna>-th.    See  Snaitli. 

Snayth,  Elizabeth  do,  79. 

,  Henry,  Henry  de,  cliancellor 

of  the  excliequer,  424. 

,  . .  .  . ,  dork,  70.  359. 

,  .  .  .  .,  the  king's  wardrober, 

81. 

Sneinton,  Snaynton  [co.  Notting- 
liaml,  334. 

Snell,  Hugli,  burgess  of  Stafford  in 
parliament,  298. 

Snelljnig,  William,  burgess  of  Shore- 
ham  in  parliament,  297. 

Snehnan,  Ellis,  352. 

Sneterton,  Simon  de,  492. 

Snetesham,  John,  323. 

Snettisham,  Snetesham  [co.  Nor- 
folk], keepers  of  manor  of, 
132. 

Snoring,  Snorjiig,  Little,  co.  Nor- 
folk, manor  of,  564. 

Snytelbrigge  [near  Scampton],  co. 
Lincoln,  repair  of,  388. 

Boap,  sope,  325,  328,  365. 

Sole,  Henry  atte,  116. 

Somer,  John.  352. 

,  Thomas,  parson  of  South- 
wick,  425. 

Somerbv,  Somurdeby,  co.  Leicester, 
247. 

,  CO.  Lincoln,  92. 

Somerby,  William  de,  parson  of  St. 
Mary  Magdalen,  Milk  Street, 
London.  540. 

Somerford.  William,  of  London.  436. 

Somerford,  Parva.  Somerford  Mau- 
duyt  [co.  Wilts],  parson  of. 
See  Coigne,  Robert. 

Somerset,  county  of,  69,  80,  84,  85, 
106,  114,  172,  192,  334,  348. 
433,  445,  535.  593. 

,  coroners  of,  3,  57,  387. 

,  defence  of  coast  of,  215. 

,  escheators  in.     See  Bekjnig- 

ton,  Jolm  de  ;  CliejTie, 
Edmiuad  ;  Cliej-ne,  William  ; 
More,  Adam  atte. 

,  justices  in  ejTe  in,  255. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  101, 

290,  298,  476,  612. 

,  lieutenant  of  the  admiral  in, 

371,  502. 

,  mines  in,  106,  107,  563. 


Somerset — cont. 

sheriff  of,  3,  16,  51,  57,  107, 

116,  194,  203,  209,  217,  292, 

298,  387,  401,  425,  476,  531. 

See    also    Choyno,    Edmund ; 

Hale,   John  atte. 

taxation  in,  317,  537. 

Somersete,  Robert,  323. 

Somerton  [in   Boothby  Graffoo,  co. 

Lincoln],  constables  of  castle 

of.  See        Brantjiigham, 

Thomas  de  ;  Greystok,  Henry 

de. 
,  CO.  Oxford,  manor  and  ad- 

v'owson  of,  22. 
,  . .  . . ,  parson  of.  See  Tiljetot, 

Robert. 

,  CO.  Suffolk,  fee  in,  492,  493. 

Somerton,  Geoffi'ey  son  of  John  de, 

550. 

,  Jolm  de,  of  Flegg,  550. 

Sompnour,  Henry  son  of  Jolm,  402. 
Somurdeby.     See  Somerby. 
SonJ^^gdon.    See  Sundon. 
SonjTigdon,  John  de,  clei'k,  73. 
Sonynghull.     See  Sunninglxill. 
Sordych.     See  Shordich. 
Sorel,  Robert,  244. 
Soterton.    See  Sutterton. 
Sothereye.     See  Southerey. 
Sothewerk.     See  Southwark. 
Souche,  Senche,  Margaret   daughter 

of  John,  35,  36. 

,  John,  35,  36. 

See  Zouche. 

Soudan,  Stephen  atte  Forde  called, 

butcher,  of  London,  285,  286, 

291. 
Soulne.     See  Sulny. 
Sourebv.    See  Sowerby. 
Souter."  John,  280. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  seaman,  20. 

,  William,  of  Hales,  180. 

Souteresforlong,  537. 

Southall,  Southalle  in  Great  Gaddes- 

den,  CO.  Hertford,  manor  of, 

74. 
Soutliam,  John  de,  68,  536. 
Southampton,       Suthampton       [co. 

Southampton],   50,    154,   223. 
,  bailiffs  of,  19,  20,  26,  44,  50, 

51,  115,  201.  264,  483,  579. 
burgess    of,    in    parliament, 

297.  ^ 

castle,  works  in,  26. 

,  mayor  of.  19,  20.  26,  44,  50, 

51,  115,  222.  483,  517,  579. 
passage    of    men    at    arms 

from,  186,  452. 
,  pesager  in,  128. 


784 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


SouthaniiJton — cont. 

,  port  of,  144,  154,  170,  192. 

,  .....  collectors  of  customs 

in,    129,    150,    153,    170,   214, 

4U9,  496,  517. 
, controller  of  customs 

in,  150,  496. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  keepers  of  passage  in, 

449. 
Southampton,   Suthampton,   coimty 

of,  86,  93,  97,  192,  199,  440, 

445,  457,  551,  570. 

,  array  in,  26. 

,  coroners  of,  236,  395. 

,    defence    of    coast    of,    215, 

276. 
,  escheators  in.      See  Auj^sel, 

William  ;  Evesham,  John  de  ; 

Froille,  John. 
,  guardians  of  the  peace  and 

justices  of  oj^er  and  terminer 

in.  607. 
,  knights  of  the  sliire  of,  101, 

289,  297,  476,  611. 
,  liexitenant  of  the  admiral  in, 

371,  502. 
.,  sheriff  of,  14,  63.  87,  88,  116. 

134,  203,  209,  236,  276,  283, 

292,  297.  395,  416,  452.  476, 

501,  502,  531.    See  also  Brigge, 

Peter  de. 

,  taxation  in,  388,  537. 

Southbum,     Suthbiu*ne     [in     Kirk- 

biu'n],  CO.  York,  528. 
Southcadbury.     See  Cadbury. 
Southchurch,  co.  Essex,  Thorp  Hall, 

Nortliorp  in,  494,  495. 
Southcote  [in  htmdred  of  Ock],  co. 

Berks,  manor  of,  533. 
Southcotes,      Southcote,      Suthcote, 

Johnde,  176,  177,  285,  291. 
Southeales.    See  Heale. 
Southerev,    Sothereye,   co.   Norfolk, 

560. 
,  parson    of.      See    Brandon, 

John  de. 
SoutheM'orth,    Thomas    de,    knight, 

453. 
Southfieet.  Suthflete  [co.  Kent],  344. 
South  Hall.    Suthalle  in   Paglesham 

[co.  Essexl.  586. 
Southhole.     See  Hole. 
Southkelsay.     See  Kelsey. 
Southk>Tkeby.     See  Kirkby. 
Southoo.    Southo,    co.    Himtingdon. 

40.  46. 
Southpederton,  Southpedirton.     See 

Petherton. 
Southshorewell.     See  Shorwell. 
Soiithstoke.     See  Stoke. 


Southwark,  Sotliework  near  London, 
Suthwark,  Suthwerk,  co. 
Surrey,  364,  523,  552. 

,  bailifis  of,  483,  505. 

,  burgesses  of,  in  pai'Iiament, 

297,  316. 

,  deeds  acknowledged  at,  194, 

279. 

dated   at,    195,    199, 

200,  552. 

St.  Mary's  priory,  prior  and 

convent  of,  445. 

,  prior  of,  578. 

,  the      chancellor's      lodging, 

lodging  of  the  bishop  of 
Winchester  at,  109,  111,  197. 

Southwick,  Suthwyk  priory,  co. 
Hants,  63. 

,  .....  prior  of,  63. 

,  Suthwyke  [co.  Sussex],  par- 
son of.     tSee  Somer.  Thomas. 

Southwokendon,  Southwokyndon. 
See  Ockendon. 

South wj^hom.     See  Witham. 

Souy,  Richard,  345. 

Sowerby,  Castle,  Soureby,  co.  Cum- 
berland,  521. 

Barkerclos  in,  521. 

Sowle,  John,  67. 

Spaigne,  Despayne,  Spajme,  Mar- 
garet wife  of  William  de,  567, 
568,  570,  571. 

,  Nicholas,  Nicholas  de,  431. 

, ,  clerk.  80,  293,  295,  296, 

434,  536,  596,  604. 

.....  ....  of  chancery.  287. 

,  Thomas  de.  6,  7.  103. 

,  William  de.  of  Boston,  567, 

568,  570,  571. 

Spain,  385. 

,  aid  given  by,  to  France,  460, 

568. 

,  bastard  of.     See  Henry  II, 

king  of  Castile. 

,  king  of.    See  Peter. 

,  merchants  of.  112. 

seamen  of.  112.  113.  508. 

ships  of,  30,  113. 

the  king's  enemies  of,  225, 

277.   301,   308. 

Spalding.  S])ald>Tig,  co.  Lincoln,  244. 
' ,  prior  of,  43.  244. 

Spaldincr.  Spaldyng.  Jolm  de,  cosy- 
ner.  of  Crowland,  405. 

William.  554. 

, ,  bailiff  of  Eltham,  29, 

103. 

, ,  of  Eltham.  467. 

Sparham  [co.  Norfolk],  598. 

Sparhauk,  William,  of  Hanslope,  332. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


785 


Sparkford,  Sparkoford,  co.  Somerset, 

niauor  of,  309. 
Sparro,  la.    See  Losi)arro. 
Spayac.     See  Sjiaigno. 
Speko,  Joan  wife  of  JoJin,  413. 

,  Robert,    367. 

SpeldJuu'st  [co.  Kent],  96,  182,  183, 

184,   185. 
Spelle.    See  Spc^Uy. 
Speilesbury.     See  Spilsbury. 
Spelly,  Spelle,  Ellis,  259. 
,  ....,   merchant   of   Bristol, 

30. 
Spence,  Roger  del,  296. 
Spencer,     Spenser,     Elizabeth     (de 

Bm'gJierssh),  wife  of  Edward 

le,   47. 
,  Henry  le,  bishop  of  Norwich, 

190,  251,  386. 

,  John,  548. 

,  merchant,  52. 

,  Richard  son  of  Margaret  le, 

418. 

Cf.  Despenser. 

Sporcoc.     See  Spirkoc. 

Spere,     Juliana     Dastyu     wife     of 

Stephen,    555. 
Speyne,  Spyan,  Si^jnie,  John,  29,  31, 

534. 
Spice,  Alice  wife  of  Clement,  535. 

,  Clement,  446,  492,  535. 

,     steward     of     manor 

court  of  Havering  atto  Bower. 

64. 

,  Stephen,  551. 

Spicer,  Spiser,  Jolm,  coroner  of  Kent, 

236. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Fleet  street.  610. 

,  Richard,  151. 

,  .  .  .  . ,   merchant   of   Bristol, 

11.   30,   161. 
,  Robert,  citizen  of  Norwich, 

222. 

,  Simon,  227. 

spices,  32,  517. 

Spigiu'nell,      Spigernel,      S]:)igumel, 

Ralph,    constable    of    Dover 

castle     and    warden     of    the 

Cinque  Ports,  19,  32,  84,  109, 

115,  187. 
,  Icnight,  188,  283,  437, 

443,  495. 
,  Thomas,  the  king's  esquire, 

17,  18. 
SpillesbJ^     See  Spilsby. 
Spilsbury,   Speilesbury,   co.   Oxford, 

advowson  of.  454. 

,  mftnor  of,  108,  468. 

Spilsby,  Spillesby,  co.  Lincoln,  379. 
Spiricombe,     See  Spreacombe, 


Spirkoc,  Spercoc,  Spurcok,  Edmund, 

330,  333. 

,  .  . .  . ,  of  Hants,  537. 

Spiser.     See  Si)icer. 

SpofYorth,  Spofford,  co.  York,  7. 

Braliam  in,  7,  39. 

Follifoot,  Folifayt  in,  7. 

sport,  the  king's,  592. 
Spratton,   S])rotton,  co.  Northamp- 
ton, 87. 
Spreacombe,  Spiricombe,  Spricombe, 

[in  Morthoe],  co.  Devon,  fee 

in,  339,  357,  523. 
Spridlj-ngton,  Spridelington,  Richard 

de,  clerk,  341,  430. 

,  Walter  de,  419. 

,  Wilham  de,  223,  341,  419. 

Springfield,  Springefeld,    Springfeld, 

CO.  Essex,  89. 

,  advowson  of,  99. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  99. 

,  manor  of,  99. 

,  hall  in,  99. 

Sjirotbrough,    Sprotburgh    by   Don- 

castre  [co.  York],  98. 
Sprotton.     See  Spratton. 
Sproughton,  Sprouton  [co.  Suffolk], 

parson     of.       See     Ronham, 

William  de. 
Sproxton,  co.  Leicester,  92. 
S])ruce.     See  Pi'ussia. 
Sprjnaer,  Robert,  480. 
Spiu"cok.     See  Spirkoc. 
spurs,  rent  of,  3. 
Spyan.    See  Speyne. 
Spyce.    See  Spice. 
Spycer's     tenement     in     Woodliam 

Ferrers,  co.  Essex,  350. 
Spyne.     See  Speyne. 
Spyneye,  John,  472. 
Squarzaficus,  Albert.,  209. 
Squier,  John,  189,  346. 
Stable,  Stabil,  Adam,  279,  323. 
,  .  .  .  . ,    mercer,    of    London, 

218. 

,  sheriff  of  London,  536. 

Stace,  Richard,  99,  350. 

C/.  Stake. 

Stafford,  co.  Stafford,  burgess  of,  in 

parliament,  298. 
,  West,  Westafford,  co.  Dorset, 

163. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  advowson  of,  163. 

Stafford,   county  of,    75,    193,    288, 

456.  552.  560. 

,  coroners  of.  8,  135,  237,  414. 

,  eschcators  in.     See  Burfon, 

Edmimd   do  ;     Perton,    John 

de. 
,  justices  of  assize  in,  466. 

CR  50 


786 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Stafford,  comity  of — cont. 

knights  of  the  shire  of,  101, 

289,  298,  316,  476,  612. 
,  slieriff   of.    8,    41,    57,    135, 

188,  209,  237,  298,  414,  476. 

See  also  Gresloy,  Joliii  do. 

subsidy  in,   90,  423. 

Stafford,  Hunipliroy,  knight,  601. 
,  jNIargarot  wife  of  John  de, 

kniglit,   584.   590,   591. 

NifJiolas  d(\  knight,  78. 

Ralpli,    Ralph    do,    oarl    of 

Stafford,   123,   137,   158,  416, 

456,  608. 
, chief  steward  of. 

See  Peyto,  John. 
, lord  of  Newport, 

66. 
,  ....  son  of  John  de,  knight. 

441. 
Robert    de,    knight    of    the 

sliire  of  Warwiek,  100. 

,  Roger,   .578. 

Staindrop,   co.   Durham,  Neville  of 

Raby  in,  84,  94,  456,  474. 
Staines,  Stanes  [co.  Middlesex],  478. 
Stake,  Thomas,  98. 

...     Of.  Staoe. 

stakes,  removal  of,  11. 

Stalliam  [co.  Norfolk],  deed  dated 

at,  550. 

,  Masonestenements  in,  550. 

Stallingborough,    Stalyngburgh,    co. 

Lincoln,   337. 

,  manor  of,  229,  234. 

Stambridge,  Stanbriigge,  Great,  [co. 

Essex],    Tilwerde    mai'sh    in, 

586. 
,  Stanbrigge,  Little,  co.  Essex, 

advowson  of,  128. 
Stamer,  John,  574. 
Stamford,  Stanford,  Staunford  [cos. 

Lincoln    and    Northampton], 

bailiffs  of,  482,  514. 
,  friars  preachers  of,  prior  of, 

514,  515. 
Stanbrigge,  Stanbrugge.     See  Stam- 
bridge. 
Standen.  Henry  son  of  Thomas  de, 

481. 
Standlake,  Stanlake,  co.  Oxford,  336. 

,  deed  dated  at,  336. 

,  manor  of,  336. 

Stanes.     See  Staines. 

Stanes,  Stanys.  Thomas,  Thomas  de, 

235,  339,  502,  522. 
Stanfeld.     See  Stanningfield. 
Stanford  Rivers,  Stanford  Reyners, 

CO.  Essex,  88. 
deed  dated  at,  89. 


Stanford  Rivers — cont. 
,    Ongar    park,   Angre- 

park  in,  562. 

See    Stamford. 

Stanford,     Staunford,     Gilbert     de, 

knight,  88,  99. 

Hugh  do,  449. 

John,  426,  578. 

,  Peter,  chaplain,  533. 

Richard,   of   London,   dyer, 

535. 
Stanherst.     See  Stonoliurst  ? 
Stanhopp,  Ricliard  do,  111. 
Staulako.     See  Standlake. 
Stanlake,  Ednumd,  cha))lain,  71,  72. 
Stanley,  Stanlay  abbey  [in  Chippen- 
ham],  CO.   Wilts,   abbot   and 

convent  of,  168. 
Stanley,  Stanlay,  Thomas  de,  clerk, 

400. 
,  William    de,     of     London, 

dyer,   591. 
Stanningfield,  Stanfeld,  co.  Suffolk, 

471. 
Stansalle,  Thomas  de,  butcher,  449. 
Stanstead,  Stanstede  [co.  Kent],  82. 
Abbots,    Stanstede   Abbots, 

CO.  Hertford,  102. 
Stanton,  parson  of.     See  GrenehuU, 

John. 
[in  Youlgreave  ?],  co.  Derby, 

509. 
,  Stonton    in    Bridwyke    [in 

Shifnal],  co.  Salop,  415, 
,  Fen,      Fennj'stanton      [co. 

Huntingdon],  manor  of,  375, 
'  376. 

Harcourt,  Staunton  [co.  Ox- 
ford], 336. 

Lacy,  CO.  Salop,  Lower  Hay- 

'  ton.  Nether  Heyton  in,  319. 
,  Long,  Long  Stanton,  Long- 

stanton,  co.  Cambridge,  123, 

440. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  440. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  rector  of.     See  Marle- 

berwe,  Thomas  de. 
,  Tonv's,  Tonyesfee  in, 

123. 
Stanydelve,  Stanydelf,  Thomas,  341, 

450,  555,  556,  560,  562. 
Stanyngden,    Stan;sTigdenne,   Roger, 

Roger  de,  578. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Limpsfield,   193. 

Stanys.     See  Stanes. 

Stapeldon,    Richard,   knight   of  the 

shire  of  Devon,  612. 
Stapele  in  Pagham,  co.  Sussex,  76. 
I     Stapelford.     See  Stapleford. 
I     Stepelho,  Thomas  de,  470. 


GENERAL    12s  DEX. 


787 


Stap)elton.    See  Stapleton. 

Stapilford.     See  Staploford. 

Stajiiltoii.     See  Staploton. 

Staple,  John,  tlio  king's  Serjeant  at 
arms,  431. 

,  Margory    wiio    of    Tliomas, 

408. 

Tlioinas.  408. 

staples  of  wool,  155. 

,  ordinances  concerning,    38, 

121.   122,  368. 

,  statute  of,  325. 

See  Bristol,  Calais,  Carmar- 
then, Con\vaj%  Queens- 
borough,  Rhuddlan,  West- 
minster,  Wincliester. 

Stapleford,  Stapelford,  Stapilford, 
CO.  Leicester.  339,  397. 

Tawniey,     Stapelford    Tany 

fco.    Essex],    deed   dated   at 
285. 

Staplegate,  Agnes  wife  of  Edmund 
de,  412. 

Stapleton,  Stapclton  [in  IMartock], 
CO.  Somerset,  manor  of,  491. 

,  Stapelton    [in    Barton    and 

Croft,   CO.    YorkJ,   manor  of, 
528. 

Stapleton,  Stapelton,  Stapilton, 
Stapulton,  Brian  de,  511. 

, ,knight,  513,  540. 

,  Elizabeth  (de  Metham)  sister 

of  Thomas  do,  528. 

,  Joan    wife    of    Thomas    do, 

assignment  of  dower  to,  528. 

,  Peter  de,  320. 

,  Sibyl  (de  Fandon),  sister  of 

Peter  de.  320. 

,  Thomas  de,  513.  528,  540. 

William  de,  296. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  forester  and  verderer 

of  Inglewood  forest,  363. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  sliire  of 

Cimiberland,   289. 

Cf.  Stepelton. 

Star  Cliamber.  See  under  Westmin- 
ster. 

Stathum,  Ralph,  565. 

,  ....    de,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Derbj',  612. 

statutes  : — 

of  Acton  Burnell,  481,  539. 

of  Gloucester,  367. 

cf  mortmain.  391. 

of  staples,  325. 

of  Winchester.  436. 

ordering  removal  of  mills,  weirs 

etc..  11. 
permitting  replevin  on  death  of 
king's  prover,  611. 


statutes — cont. 

prohibiting  sununary  ejectment 

from   freehold.    166. 
regulating  sale  of  wine,  278,  606. 
toniu'e      of      oflice      of 

.sheriff's  clerk,  6. 
statutes  merchant,  68,  75,  174,  318, 

421,  478,  561,   574,   582,  600. 
Staundon  [co.  Kent  ?],  80. 
Staunford.    See  Stamford,  Stanford. 
Staunton.     See  Stanton. 
Staimton,  Adam,  324. 
,  Ralph  brotlier  of  Thomas  de, 

285. 
,  Robert  de,  of  Nottingham- 
shire, 540. 

,  Thomas  do,  285. 

Stawell.     See  Stowille. 

Stayn,  William,  248. 

Stayndrop,  Thomas  de,  king's  clerk, 

286. 
Stayngreve,  Nicholas  de,  parson  of 

Thornton  in  Craven,  94,  394. 
Staynoll,  Richard  de,  chaplain,  54. 
Sta>-nton,  Jolm  de,  308. 
Stebbing,     Stebbynge,     co.     Essex, 

manor  of,  348. 

,  market  and  fair  at,  348. 

,  mills  at,  348. 

,  places  and  buildings  named 

in,  348. 
Stebbyng.   Edmvmd  de,   clerk,    322, 

327,  486. 
StebbjTige.     See  Stebbing. 
Stebenetli,  Stebenhethe,  Stebenliithe. 

See  Stepney. 
Stedeman,  William,  480. 
Steel,  William,  clerk,   74,   75,     281, 

293,  295,  296. 
steel,  526. 

heads  for  arrows,  41,  57. 

Steeple    Bumpstead.         See   Bimip- 

stead. 

Claydon.     See  Claydon. 

Morden.     See  Morden. 

Stenynge.     See  Steyning. 
Stepelclaydon.     See  Claydon. 
Stepelton,  Robert  de,  421. 

Cf.  Stapleton. 

Stephen.    See  Fitz  Stephen,  Steven. 
Stephenes,  Stephnes,  Henry,  352. 

John,  of  Essex,  176,  177. 

Stepil  ^lordon.    See  Morden. 
Stepleton   in   Presteigne,    co.   Here- 
ford,   bailiff  of.       See   Bray, 

William. 
Stepney,     Stebeneth,     Stebenhethe, 

Stebenliithe    [co.    Middlesex], 

186.  582,  583. 
,  Hacchestrete  in,  582. 


788 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Stopney — cont. 

,  HoUedich  in,  582. 

Old  Ford,  Eldoforde  in,  180. 

,  Pomfmt  in,  41G. 

,  the  Mote  in,  321. 

Stepynglo,  TJionias  de,  566. 

Stert,  Storte,  co.  Wilts,  manor  of,  42. 

Stery,  Richard,  knight,  535. 

Cf.  Story. 

Steuelegh.     See  Stewloy. 

Steven,  Joan  wife  of  Kichard,  551. 

,  Richard,  551. 

Stevyn,  Odo,  burgess  of  Lostwithiel 

in  parliament,  013. 
Stewards    Hay,    Stywordesheyo    [in 

Ratby,  co.  Leicester],  351. 
Stowley,    Steuelegh    [in   Ashill],   co. 

Somerset,  103. 
Stewton,     Styueton,     co.     Lincoln, 

manor  of,  63. 
Stoyles   tenement   in    Stebbing,    co 

Essex,  349. 
Steyning,     StenjTige     [co.     Sussex]. 

bailiffs  of  abbot  of  F6camp  at. 

325. 
Stickford,     Stykford,    co.     Lincoln, 

manor  of,  379. 
Stiffkey,     StyA'ekeye,     co.    Norfolk^ 

manor  of,  120. 
Stile,  Alice  atte,  356. 

,  William,  421,  422. 

Stillard,  Thomas,  43. 
Stilligo,  Robert,  591. 
StippjTig,  Walter,  592. 
Stirklandketle.         See       Strickland 

Kettle. 
Stirton.  Stretton  in  Craven  [in  Skip- 
ton,  CO.  York],  576. 

,  deed  dated  at,  576. 

Stivichall,  Sty\'ichall,  co.  Warwick. 

430. 
Stockleigh  Luccombe,  Westloccombe, 

[in    Cheriton    Fitzpaine],    co. 

Devon,  fee  in,  523. 
Stockton,    Stoketon    [co.    Norfolk]. 

parson     of.       See     Welham. 

Hervey  de. 
Stodeye,  John,  John  de,   452,   456. 

475,  559. 
,  alderman  of  London, 

536. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  238, 

335,  429,  450,  451. 

, ,  of  West  Thurrock,  294. 

,  vintner,    of   London, 

335. 
Stodle,  Stodley,  Jolm  de,  burgess  of 

Oxford  in  parliament,  290. 

,  Walter,  161. 

Stoke,  CO.  Warwick,  430. 


Stoke — cont. 

,  Dry,  Dryestoke  [co.  Rut- 
land], 162. 

(ioldington,     Stokogoldjiig- 

ton,  Stokgoldyngton,  co. 
Buckingham,  441. 

,  advowson    of,  76,  77. 

,  manor  of,  76,  77,  176, 

177. 

Holy    Cross,     co.     Norfolk, 

Blackford,  Blakworth  in,  560. 

Nevvington,    Nowenton    [co. 

Middlesex],  306. 

,  North,  Northstoko,  co.  Lin- 
coln, 339. 

Poges,  Pogeys,  co.  Bucking- 
ham, Cosyneslond  and  Mic- 
helleslond  in,    549. 

,  Ditton  in,  175. 

,  South,  Southstoke,  co.  Lin- 
coln, 339. 

,....,  Easton,  Eston  in,  339, 

396. 

upon  Tern,  Stoke  [co.  Salop], 

assignment  of  dower  at,  355. 

,  m.m  at,  356. 

,  places  named  in,  355, 

356. 

Stoke,  Elizabeth  wife  of  Jolm,  593. 

,  John,  593. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  verderer  of  Waltham 

forest,   372,   507. 

,  Nicholas  de,  parson  of  the 

chapel  in  Oakliam  castle,  503. 

,  Richard,  356. 

,  WlUiam  de,  318,  429. 

Stoke  by  Clare,  Richard  de,  536. 

Stokegoldyngton.     See  Stoke. 

Stokes,  William  de,  clerk,  566. 

Cf.  Stookes. 

Stoketon.    See  Stockton. 

Stokgoldyngton.     See  Stoke. 

Stokkeleye,  Stephen,  349. 

Stolton.     See  Stoulton. 

Stonar,  Stonore  by  Sandewic,  co. 
Kent,  541. 

,  men  of,  541. 

Stone  [in  Firbeck],  co.  York,  377. 

next    Dartford,    co.     Kent, 

344. 

next     Faversham,     by     Os- 

prenge  [co.  Kent],  585,  586. 

Stone,  Jolui  de,  of  Avlesbury,  544, 
545. 

,  Robert.  349. 

Thomas,  chaplain,  250. 

'.,  .  .  .  . ,     ]3arson     of     Combo 

Raleigh,  250. 

,  Walter  atte,  537. 

Stoneham,  Richard,  286. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


780 


Stonelnirst      [in      Hcatlifidd.      co. 

Sussex]  ?  Staiiliorst,  uhatti  of, 

149. 
Stonorsh,  Potor  do,  474. 
Stonlunn  Aspall,  Aspiile,  co.  Suffolk, 

451. 
,  PJarl's,  Stouliam  i\jitngayiie 

[co.  Suffolk],  deeds  dated  at, 

318. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  375. 

parson  of.     See  Ing- 

Jiain,  William  do. 
Stonor,     Stonoro     [in     Pishill],     co. 

Oxford,  dvvd  dated  at,  197. 

,  manor  of.  197,  200. 

Stonoro.     See  Stonar,  Stonor. 
Stonore,   Edmiuid  do,  son  of  Jolin 

do,  knight,  195,  196,  197,  198, 

199. 
,  John     do,     grandfather     of 

Ednnmd  de,  195. 
Stonton.     See  Stanton. 
Stookes.  Luke  do,  parson  of  Maries- 
ford,  547. 

Cf.  Stokes. 

Stoppitdyk    [near     Scampton],     co. 

Lincoln.   388. 
Stormy.     See  Sttu'mj-. 
Storteford,  Alexandcjr  do,  275. 
Stortford,    Bishop,    Storteford    [co. 

Hertford],    parson    of.      See 

Melreth,  Philip. 
Stotesburj^     See  Stuolibiu-y. 
Story,  Stury,  Richard,  Richard  de, 

7,  39,  512,  513. 
, constable    of    Hames 

castle,  512. 
, ,   kiiight,    67,    68,    340, 

597. 

,  Robert.    350. 

Cf.  Story. 

stots,  3. 

Stottesden,    Stottesdon,    co.    Salop, 

manor  of,  374,  379. 
Stouford.    See  Stowford. 
Stoiilton,     Stolton,    co.    Worcester, 

manor  of,  108,  453,  454. 
Stourmouth  [co.  Kent],  586. 
Stourton,    Stiu'deton    Yorderigh    [in 

Thelbridge],  co.  Devon,  fee  in, 

523. 
Stow,  CO.  Lincoln,  Sturton,  Sti'otton 

in,  388. 
Stowe,  John  de,  421. 

,  Robert  de,   clerk,    190. 

Stowe      Nine       Churches,       Stowe, 

CO.  Northampton,  manor  of, 

557. 
Sto^\'fo^d,    Stouford    [in    Langtreo], 

CO.  Devon,  34,  35. 


Stowillo,   Stawoll.   Eleanor  (de  Mor- 
ton) wilo  ui  iMattliow  de,  622, 

523. 

MatlJjow  de,   522,  523. 

,   .  .  .  .,  Icnight,  161. 

William,  82. 

Strabolgi,  Strabolgy,  D^vid  tlo,  earl 

of  Athol,  46,  20,  121. 

,  .....  late  earl  of  Athol,  46. 

,  ....  son  of  David  de,  12. 

,  Elizab(sth  wife  of  David  de, 

oarl  of  Athol,  120,  121,  125. 
,  Kathoriuo  wife  of  David  de, 

oai-1  of  Athol,  12,  46. 
Strange,    Lestrange,    Lo    Straungo, 

Straiuigo,  Alina  wife  of  Roger, 

603,  604. 

,  Hugh  le,  465. 

,  John,  602. 

,  ....  son  of  Jolm,  of  Walton, 

]  602,  604. 

Mabel  wife  of  John,  602,  604. 

,  Roger  le,   158. 

,  . .  . . ,  lord  of  ICnockin,  602- 

604. 

,  . . . . ,  of  Blackmore,  204. 

William,  332. 

Strangman,  William,  426. 

Stratele.     See  Streatley. 

Stratford  Langthorn,  Stretford  Lang- 

thorne,  co.  Essex,  67. 

,  abbot  of,   132. 

i      ,  Old,  CO.  Warwick,  Shottery, 

Shotrytho  in,  85. 
on  Avon,  upon  Aven,  Avene, 

CO.    Warwick,    85,    271,    324, 

364. 
,   manor  of,   271,    364, 

524,  525. 
Tony,     Toimy,     co.     Wilts, 

manor  of,  108,  468. 
Stratford,  Giles  de,  564. 

Cf.  Stretford. 

Stratthy.     See  Stretehay. 

Stratton,  co.  Cornwall,  manor  of,  91, 

93. 
,  .  .  .  . ,    Binhamy,    Bienamee 

in,  90,  93. 
,  Over,   Stratton,  co.  Somer- 
set, manor  of,  62. 
St.  Margarets,  Stratton,  co. 

Wilts,  manor  of,   496. 
Stratton,  Ellen  wife  of  William  de, 

knight,  72. 

,  Oliver  de,  569. 

,  Thomas  de,  421. 

Straunge.    See  vStrange. 
Stravynton,    John   alias  Henry   de, 

309. 
1     Streatley,  Stratele,  co.  Bedford,,  376. 


790 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Strecho,   Strect-li,   John,   573. 

,  krught,  537. 

Streetley,  Strottole,  co.  Cambridge, 

85. 
Strelley,  Strellay,  Hugh  brotJier  of 

Philip  son  of  William  do,  488. 
,  William   de,    knight   of   tho 

shire  of  Nottingham,  100. 
Strengeston.     See  Stringston. 
Stretch,  Strettheton  [in  Thol bridge], 

CO.  Devon,  fee  in,  523. 
Strete,  Henry  del,  544. 

,  John,  John  de,  75,  76. 

coroner  for  Hereford- 
shire, 162. 

,  Roger,  323. 

,  Thomas  son  of  Henry  del, 

544. 
,  William.    William    de,    100, 

137,  138,  335,  359,  536,  559, 

573,  584. 
,  .  . .  .,  the  king's  butler,  14, 

170,  364,  403. 
Stretehay,  William  de,  426. 
Stretford.     See  Bow,  Stratford. 
Stretford,  Andrew  de,  192. 

C/.  Stratford. 

Stretherne,  John,  547. 
Stretle,  Hugh  de,  545,  546. 
Strettele.    See  Sti'eetley. 
Strettheton.    See  Stretch. 
Stretton,  Little  Stretton  [in  North 

Wingfield],    co.    Derby,    509. 

,  CO.  Leicester,  fee  in,  274. 

,  CO.   Rutland,  manor  of,   2. 

imder  Foss,  by  Kirkeby  [in 

Monks  Kirby,  co.  Warwick], 

472. 

,  Stretton  Moor  in,  472. 

See   Stirton,    Stm-ton. 

Stretton,  Jankyn,  John  de,    75,  76, 

142,  143. 
,  Richard  de,  son  of  Walter 

Gidyas  of  Sturton,  309. 
,  Robert  de,  bishop  of  Coven- 
try and  Lichfield,   240,   251, 

542. 
Strickland     Kettle,     Stirklandketle, 

CO.  Westmoreland,  253. 
Stringston,  Strengeston,  co.  Somer- 
set, 267. 
Strode.     See  Strood. 
Strokelady,     William,     fishmonger, 

323. 
Strokys,  Richard,  254. 
Stronge,  John,  600. 
Strood,  Strode,  co.  Kent,  St.  Mary's 

hospital,  chantries  in,  489. 
,  .  . . . ,  master  and  brethren 

of,  489. 


Strother,  .-Vlan  do,  del,  bailiiT  of  the 
Uburty  of  Tynedale,  121,  256. 

,  John      del,      of      Bow.sden, 

coroner  of  Noilhumberland, 
497. 

Stroude,  Edmund  de,  104. 

Hugh  de,  104. 

Strugull.     See  Chepstow. 

Stuchbury,  Stotosburj  [co.  North- 
ampton], bailiff  of.  See  Mil- 
throp,  Robert  do. 

Stuche,  Alice  wife  of  William  de,  62. 

,  Vivian  de,  62. 

William  de,  62. 

Studley  [m  Beckley,  co.  Oxford], 
Margery  prioress  of,  164. 

Stuket,  John,  533. 

Sturdeton.    See  Stourton. 

Sturgis,  Richard,  of  London,  591. 

Stui'ininster  Newton  [co.  Dorset]  ? 
Neuton,  prison  at,  255. 

Stm-my,  Stormy,  Henry,  100,  110, 
543,  551,  552. 

Robert,  543. 

Sturry,  Sturreye  [co.  Kent],  97. 

Stm'ton,  Stretton  [in  Stow,  co.  Lin- 
coln], 388. 

,  Stretton    in    the    Clay,    co. 

Nottingham,  309. 

, ,  Fenton  in,  309. 

Stiu'y.     See  Story. 

Stykford.    See  Stickford. 

style,  alteration  of  royal,  94. 

Stynt,  John,  of  Sutton,  562. 

Styred,  John,  349. 

Styrop,  John,  76,  85. 

Styuecle,  Nicholas,  Nicholas  de,  71, 
282. 

,  escheator  in  Bedford- 
shire, 48,  56,  515. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Buckingham- 
shire, 48,  56,  60,  119. 

,....,  ....  in  Cambridge- 
shire, 40,  45,  49,  56,  60. 

,  ....  in  Huntingdon- 
shire, 40,  46,  56. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  laiight  of  the  shire  of 

Himtingdon,  289,  299,  316, 
476. 

Styueton.     See  Stewton. 

Sty\'ekeye.     See  Stiffkey. 

Styvichale.     See  Stivichall. 

Styward,  Thomas,  259. 

,  .  .  .  . ,   bailiff  of  Gloucester, 

392. 

Stywordesheye.     See  Stewards  Hay. 

subsidies.     See  taxation. 

Sudbiu'y  [in  West  Ham,  co.  Essex], 
manor  of,  132. 

,  CO.  Suffolk,  382. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


791 


Sudbury,  John  do,  440. 

Roger,  liogor  de,  318,  427, 

440,  441,  452. 
Simon  dv,  bi^s]lop  of  London, 

192,  243,  244,  251,  272,  300, 

334.  402. 
Sudeby.     See  Oadby  ? 
Suffield,  Sutlifokl.  co.  Norfolk,  manor 

of,  375. 
Suffolk,  coimty  of,  82,  171,  312,  34G, 

450,  535,  540. 
,  earl  of.    See  Ufford,  Robert 

dc  ;  Uffortl,  \\'illiam  de. 
osclieators    in.      See    Caus, 

Thomas,  of  Hockliam  ;   Cres- 

SJ^lgllam,    John    de ;     Roke- 

wode,    Jolui ;    Weston,    Jolin 

de  ;   AVolfreton,  Roger  de. 

,  farm  of,  500. 

,  iiiquisition  concerning  wards 

in,  240. 

,  justices  of  assize  in,  466. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  101, 

290,  299,  316,  476,  612. 
lieutenant  of  the  admiral  of 

the  fleet  in,  64. 
sheriff  of,  116,  177,  179,  181, 

209,  283.  299,  476,  494,  500, 

542.    See  also  Thorj),  Edmvnul 

de. 

,  subsidy  in,  89,  423. 

Sulgrave,  Hugh,  Hugli  de,  13,  532. 

Sully.    See  Scilly. 

Sulny,     So\ilne,     Aldi'cd,     Alvered, 

Averey  de,  knight,  93,  565. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Derby,  476. 
Summard,  Henry,  288. 

,  Hugli  son  of  Henry,  288. 

,  John  son  of  Heruy,  288. 

Sunbxiry  [co.  Middlesex],  Kempton, 

KenJ^^gton  in,  494. 
Sundon,    Sonjmgdon,    co.    Bedford, 

manor  of,  73,  446. 
Sunningliill,  Sonyngliull  [co.  Berks], 

bailiff  of  queen  Philippa  at. 

See  Rokele,  William  de  la. 
Surrey,  covmtv  of,   67.   74,   78,   83, 

334,  474,  559,  596. 

,  arrays  in,  125,  436. 

,  coroners  of,  8. 

,    earl      of.       See     FitzAlan, 

Richard. 
,  escheators  in.     See  Bisshop- 

eston,     Jolin     de ;     Heryng, 

Nicholas. 
,  guardians  of  the  peace  in, 

37. 
kniehts  of  the  shire  of,  101, 

289,  297,  316,  476,  612. 


Sm'ivv — CA^nt. 

\,  sheriff  of,  8,  37,  41,  179,  203, 

209,  292,  297,  426,  436,  439, 

459,  470,  476,  531,  578. 

taxation  in,  172,  190. 

Surteys,  Thomas,  kuigiit  of  the  shire 

of  Northumberland,  475. 
Sasso,  Francis,  do  Noiy,  seaman  of 

Genoa,  509. 
Sussex,  county  of,  78,  86,  293,  295, 

332,  430,  446,  560,  607. 

,  arrays  in,  436. 

,  coroners  of,  511. 

escheators  in.    See  Bisshop- 

eston,     Jolm     de  ;      Heryng, 

Nicholas  ;    Nonvico,  Richard 

de. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  101, 

289,  297,  316,  476,  612. 

piu-veyance  of  wheat  in,  212. 

sheriff  of,  41,  203,  209,  277, 

292,  297,  425,  436,  476,  479, 

611,    531.      See   also   Neude- 

gate,   William. 

,  taxation  in,   172,  392. 

Sustede,  Robert  de,  parson  of  Willing- 
ham,  331. 
Suthalle.     See  South  Hall. 
Sutliampton.      See   Southampton. 
Suthbm'ue.    See  Soutlibiurn. 
Suthcote.     See  Southcotes. 
Sutlifeld.     See  Suffield. 
Suthfiete.    See  Southfleet. 
Suthwark,    Suthwcrk.      See    South- 

wark. 
SutliAvyk,  Suthwykc.  See  South  wick. 
Sutterton,     Soterton,     co.     Lincoln, 

141. 
Sutton,    CO.    Derb3%    Duckmanton, 

Dugmanton  in,  509. 
[in  South  Milton],  co.  Devon, 

82. 
,  Great  Sutton,  co.  Essex,  ad- 

vowson  of,  47. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  47.  • 

[co.  Lincoln],  562. 

[in  Claverley],  co.  Salop,  14, 

15. 

,  CO.  Siu-rey,  427,  598. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  deeds  dated  at,  598. 

,   .  .  .  .,  manor  of,  598. 

atte  Hone.  co.  Kent,  Hawley, 

Halghle  in,  536. 
,  Bishop's,  Sutton,  co.  Hants, 

70. 
Coldfield,  in,  upon  Colefeld, 

CO.  War\vick,  146. 

,  manor  of,  126. 

,  King's,     CO.    Northampton, 

Walton  in,  214. 


702- 


GENEKAL    INDEX. 


iSuttuu — cont. 

Wakli'ou,  Walrand  [co.  Dor- 
set], William  parsoa  of,  80. 
Sutton,  Alan  do,  327,  350,  351,  486. 
Elizabeth      (do      Biayton), 

daughtor  of  Nicholas  do,  579. 

,  Gilbert  de,  548,  564. 

,  John  do,  citizen  of  Liiicoln  in 

parliament,    612. 

, ,  kniglit,  472. 

, ,   the  elder,    105, 

106. 

,  ....,....,  the  younger,  105. 

,  Kathcrino  wife  of   Richard 

atto,  do,  416,  431,  432. 
,    Margery   (do  Wholnotham) 

wife  of  John  de,  of  Wivenhoe, 

knight,  471,  472. 

,  Kichard  de,  332,  336,  416. 

,  .  .  . . ,    escheator    in    Lanca- 
shire, 54. 

, ,  knight,  425,  426,  472. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Essex,  586. 

,  .  .  . . ,    the    king's    serjeant, 

294. 
.,....,  . .  .  . ,    the    king's    yeoman, 

keeper  of  rivers  in  Yorkshire 

and  Lincolnshire,  163,  164. 
,  Thomas    de,    canon    of    St. 

Mary,  Lincoln,  545. 

, ,  knight,  74,  79,  580. 

Sutton  upon  Trent,  Gilbert  do,  554. 
Suward,  Richard,  bxu'gess   of   Brid- 

port  in  parliament,  298. 
Suwen,    Gilbert   de,    knight    of    the 

shire  of  Westmoreland,    100. 
Suwet,  William,  chaplain,  324. 

Cf.  Swette. 

Swaby,  Thomas  de,  clerk,  203. 
Swafeld,  Jolm,  327,  334. 

,  Maud,  334. 

Swaffham,     Swafham    Market,     co. 

Norfolk,  318,  413. 
Pi-ior,   Swafham  Priour   [co. 

Cambridge],  manor  of,  85. 
Swafham,        Swofham,        Thomas, 

Thomas  de,  565. 

, of  Burwell,  591. 

,  William,  WiUiam  de,  565. 

, of  Bm-well,  591. 

swainmote,  351. 

Swalclif,       Swalweclyve,      William, 

William   de,    106,    222,    223, 

228. 
Swale,  river,   co.   York,  justices  to 

observe  and  keep,  163. 
Swale,  John,  85. 

,  William  de,  598,  601. 

Swalweclyve.     See  Swalclif. 
SwAn,  Adam  son  of,  5. 


Swanage,   Swanwyche   [co.   Dorset], 

merchant  of,  50. 
Swanbourno,  Agnes  wife  of  John  do, 

294. 

Jolm  do,  294. 

, ,  clork,  190. 

,  William  son    of    John    de, 

294. 
Swancote.     See  Swaimacott. 
Swanlond,  William,  William  do,  181, 

315. 
, son  of  Sir  Simon,  of 

Middlesex,  279. 
Swannacott,  Swancote  [in  Wcok  St. 

Mary],    co.    Cornwall,   manor 

of,  91,  93. 
Swansea,  Sweneseye  [co.  Glamorgan], 

ca.stle  of,  123,  124. 
Swanston,   Swej-neston   [in  Dilwyn, 

CO.  Hereford],  189,  326. 
Swanton's,  Swantonos  in  Foulsham 

[co.  Norfolk],  manor  of,  598. 
Swanwyche.     See  Swanage. 
Swavesey,  Swaviseye,  co.  Cambridge, 

70. 

deeds  dated  at,  71,  457. 

,  lord  of.     See  Zouche,  Hugh 

la. 

,  manor  of,  457. 

priory,  71. 

,  prior  of.      See  Walke- 

leyn,  Jolin. 
,  vicar  of.    See  Gamelyngeye, 

William  de. 
Swayn,  Sweyn,  Agnes,  356. 

,  John  son  of  Richard,  356. 

,  William,    of    Great    Billing, 

the  yoimger,  87. 
Sweneseye.     See  Swansea. 
Swere,  Thomas,  83. 
Swetell,  Richard,  352. 
Swette,  Jolm,  351. 

Cf.  Suwet. 

Sweyn.    See  Swayn. 
Sweyneston.     See  Swanston. 
Swilland.     Swynlond,     co.     Suffolk, 

manor  of,  46. 
Swillyngton,  Swylington,  Swyllj.'ng- 

ton,  Swj^lyngton,  Robert  de, 

the  younger,  knight,  139,  540, 

541. 
,    . . . . ,    the    vmcle,    knight, 

186,  431,  471,  540,  541,  552, 

553. 
swine,  257,  380,  573. 
Swineshead,  Swynesheved,  co.  Lin- 
coln, 141. 

,  abbot  of,  405. 

advowson  of,  160. 

,  manor  of,  160. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


793 


Switliland,    Swithloiul,    Swytholond, 

CO.  Ltjicestor,  351. 

,  fco  ill,  274. 

,  William  roctor  of,  351. 

Swofham.     See  Swaffliain. 
Swono,  Philip,  441. 
Swyft,  Adam,  255. 

John,  4U0. 

Swylington,  Swyllyngton,  Swylpig- 

ton.     See  Swillington. 
Swyn,   Svvynno   [Flanders],   port  of, 

225,  226,   385. 
Swyn,    William,    burgoss   of   Calais, 

306. 
Swynbiu'no,  Joan  wife  of  Robert  de, 

473. 

,  Robert  do,  466. 

, ,  knight,  473,  474. 

Swyneford.     See  S^v3^^ford. 
Swynesheved.     See  Swineshead. 
Swyniord,     Swyneford,     Hugh     de, 

knight,  403. 
,  Kathorine  wife  of  Hugh  de, 

382,  388. 

Thomas  de,  403. 

,  William  de,  472. 

SwjTahowe,   Elizabeth  wife   of  Wil- 
liam   de,    of    Berwick     upon 

Tweed,  238. 
Swj-nJond.     See  Swilland. 
S Wynne.     See  Swyn. 
Sw^ynton,  John  do,  of  Scotland,  484. 
Swythelond.     See  Switliland. 
Sybbessey.     See  Sibsoy. 
Sybille,  Sybyle,  Sybylle.    See  Sibille. 
Sydberd,  Augustine,  429. 
Sydenej%    William    de,    coroner    of 

Surrey,  8. 
Sydyngbourne,     Sydyngbm'n.       See 

Sittingbourne. 
Sylby,  John,  of  Warwickshire,  424. 
Sylveyn.     Sec  SiWeyii. 
Symcok,  John,  279. 

,  Nicholas,  279. 

Symeon,  Augustine,  55. 

Robert,  555,  556,  558. 

,  knight,  581, 

,  Simon,  140,  458. 

Symond,  Jolux,  of  Byfleet,  474. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  PenrjTi,  52. 

,    the    king's   moneyer, 

306. 

,  Walter,  592. 

See  Fitz  Simond. 

Symondescastel  [co.  Salop  or  Mont- 
gomery], 421. 
Symondessone.    Dirk,    merchant    of 

North  Holland,  467. 
Syndlesham,  Jolm  son  of  William  de, 

465. 


Syntele  elsetvhere  Cyntekgh  [in  Ab- 
berley],  co.  Worcester,  manor 
of,  127. 

Syres,  Jolm  de,  merchant  of  Aber- 
deen, 64. 

SjTy,  Isabel,  350. 

Syston,  Sytlicston,  co.  J-.eicester,  186. 

Syward,  John,  parson  of  Copton,  459. 

Sywardeby,  William  de,  160. 


T 

Tabbard,  John  atte  the,  426. 

Tadcastre,  Thomas  de,  of  Yorkshire, 
465. 

Taggc,  Richard,  of  Catcliffe,  417. 

Taiiboys,  Taylcboys,  Eleanor  wife  of 
Henry,  40,  45. 

,  Walter  son  of  Henry,  253. 

Taillard,  William,  burgess  of  Leices- 
ter in  parliament,  290,  298. 

Taillour,  Tayllom',  Adam,  of  Ulvers- 
ton,  coroner  for  Furness,  4. 

,  Edith,  352. 

,  .Joan  (de  Lancastre)  wife  of 

William,   162. 

,  John,  91. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Renhold,  the  elder, 

539. 

,  Nicholas,  335. 

,  Richard,  349. 

,  Thomas,  593. 

William,  of  Rye,    baron   of 

the  Cinque  Ports,  299. 

Talbot,   Elizabeth  wife  of  Richard, 
487. 

,  Gilbert,   159,   391,   452. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and  justice  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  Herefordshire,  293. 

,  ....  son  of  Richard,  Icnight, 

487. 

,  Jolm,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Leicester,  100,  612. 

Richard,  487. 

Talgartli      English,      Englees      [co. 
Brecon],  lordship  of,  162. 

tallage.     See  taxation. 

Tame.     See  Tham?. 

Tameweye.     See  Thame. 

Tam worth.  John  de,  clerk,  389. 

Nicholas  de,  130. 

admiral   of  the   fleet 

from  the  moutli  of  the  Thames 
northward,  towards  the 
north,  53,  58,  64. 


794 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Taniworth,  Nicliolas  do — cont. 
,  .....  captain  of  the  to\vn  of 

Calais,  225,  306,  307. 

,  knight,  81. 

Wilham,  423. 

Tanfeld,  John  do,  79. 
Tangole,  Kalj)!!  do,  453,  454. 
Tangnioro,  Tangenioro  [co.   Sussex], 

parson  of.     See  Apoldorliani, 

Kichard  do. 
Tanner,    Taunoro,    Tannour,    Hugh, 

of  London,  283. 

,  Jolm,  cliajJain,  146. 

,  Roger,  352. 

,  Walter,  chaplain,  610,  611. 

William,   bnrgess   of   Bridg- 
water in  parliament,  290. 
Tanworth,    TJioneworth,    co.    War- 
wick, manor  of,  126. 

,  Aspley,  Aspcle  in,  374. 

Taplow,    Tappelowe    [co.    Bncking- 

ham],  parson  of.     See  Marny, 

Thomas. 
Tarent,  William,  William  dc,  clerk, 

184,  185,  277,  335. 
Tarente.     See  Tarrant. 
Tamock,  Tornok  [in  Badgworth],  co. 

Somerset,  manor  of,  288. 
Tarrant,  Tarente  [co.  Dorset],  80. 
Tarring,  West,  TerrjTig  [co.  Sussex], 

parson  of.     See  Bm'ley,  John. 
Tarvin,  co.  Chester,  Kelsall,  Kelshale 

in,  602,  603. 
Tatenhale.     See  Tettenhall. 
Tattershall,  Tatershale,  co.  Lincoln, 

lord     of.        See     Crombwell, 

Ralph  de. 
Tatyn,  William,  441. 
Tauk,  William,    76.    437,   443,    486, 

607. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  justice  of  assize  in  cos. 

Oxford,       Berks,       Stafford, 

Salop,  Worcester,  Gloucester 

and  Hereford,  466. 
Taunton,  co.   Somerset,  burgess  of, 

in  parliament,  298. 
Taverham,  John,  605. 
Taverner,  Thomas,  of  Lichfield,  57. 
William,    burgess    of    Barn- 
staple in  parliament,   298. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  of  Leominster  in 

parliament,  298. 
Tavistock,     Tavystok,     co.     Devon, 

biirgess    of,     in     parliament, 

298. 
Tavystoke,  Roger,  343. 
taxation  : — 

alnage,  88,  89,  133. 

customers'  rolls  and  memoranda, 

530. 


taxation — cont. 

custonLS,  14,  38,  56,  121,  129, 
130,  143,  144,  150,  153,  154. 
161,  169,  214,  216,  308,  347, 
365,  381,  391,  399,  404,  409, 
414,  416,  447,  495,  497,  516- 
518,  525,  579. 

hi  Ireland,   11,  380. 

of  2«.  on  tun  of  wine,  275. 

of  3d.  in  the  pound,  10, 

136,  275. 

on  wool,  207,  227,  241, 

251,  317,  368,  410. 

potty,  130,  245. 

of  aliens,  153. 

I)rohibition  of  unauthorised  im- 
posts, 314,  380. 
scutage  in  Ireland,  380,  395. 
subsidies,  38,  121,  129,  130, 
143,  150,  169,  207,  214,  216, 
224,  347,  365,  368,  391,  392, 
399,  410,  414,  447,  497,  516- 
618,  525,  579. 

,  clerical,    HI,   131,   147, 

244,  249,  251,  252,  256,  260- 
262,  402-404,  588,  595. 

of     tenth,     168, 

190,  392,  401. 

for  defence   of   Ireland, 

495,  529,  530. 
granted    by    the    com- 
mons, 388. 

by  the  merchants 

of  England,  404. 

of    fifteenth,    169,    392, 

489,  527. 

of  50,000?.,  533. 

of  tenth,  489,  527. 

on  cloth,  87,  88. 

,  farm   of,    89,    90, 

172,  317,  423,  424,  537,  538. 
on  wine  and  other  mer- 
chandise, 263. 

,  parochial,  248,  256,  297, 

489,  490,  498,  541. 
tallage,  25. 
Tayleboys.     See  Tailboys. 
Tayllour.     See  Taillour. 
Tebbe,  John,  citizen  of  Canterbury 

in  parliament,  613. 
Teddesley  Hay  in  forest  of  Cannock, 

CO.  Stafford,   137. 
Tees,  Tese,  river,  co.  York,  justices 

to  observe  and  keep,  163. 
Telgate,  Thomas,  563. 
Telyngton,  William  de,  of  Hereford- 
shire, 90. 
Temese,  Thomas,  81,  132. 
Temple    Bruer,    Templebruere    [co. 
Lincoln],  397. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


795 


Tomple — cont. 

Dirisloy,  Djiicslee  Fiiriiyval 

[in    Hitcliin],    co.    Hertford, 
Maydencroft,     Madcroft     in, 
502. 
Tenby,  Tynby  [co.  Pembroke],  lord- 
sJiip  ot,  520. 

,  mayor  and  bailiffs  of,  65. 

steward  of,  520. 

Tendale,  Jolin,  Jolm  do.  589,  610. 
Tendryng,  William,  176. 
tenures  : — 

burgage,  491. 

according  to  gavelkind, 

412. 

,free,  372,  478,  501. 

by  the  coui'tesy  of  England,  47, 
55,  56,  84,  161,  341,  410,  548. 
by  the  rod,  146. 
frank  almoin,  5,  168,  398,  510. 
gavelkind,  20,  21,  167,  412. 
honoiu"  of  Boulogne,  408. 

of  Dover  castle,  275. 

of  Gloucester,  137,  416. 

of  Huntingdon,  151,  380, 

403. 

of  Laigle,  271. 

of  Peverel,  138, 166, 168, 

252,  397. 

of  Richmond,  403. 

of  Tickliill,    377. 

of  Winchester,  140,  351. 

Terbok,  Henry  de,  92. 
Terrington,  Tyveryngton,  co.  York, 
528. 

,  advowson  of,  528. 

,  Spitelclose  in,  528. 

,  Wigginthorpe,  \A'ygjTithorp 

in,  528. 
Terry,  Robert,  of  London,  merchant, 

56. 
Terr\Tig.     See  Tarring. 
Tese".    ^See  Tees. 
Teste,  Lamfranc,  de  Cestre,  seaman 

of  Genoa,  509. 
testers,  579. 

Tetlyngbury,  William  de,  parson  of 
Betteshanger,  piu'veyor  of 
victuals  for  Dover  castle, 
513. 
Tettebury,  Walter  de,  356. 
Tettenhall,  Tatenhale,  Totenhale  [co. 
Stafford],  356. 

,  advowson  of  deanery  of  free 

chapel  at,  274. 

,  chapel  of  St.  Mary  at,  356. 

marsh  at,  356. 

,  places  named  in.  356. 

Tettesworth,  Edmund  de,  the  king's 
Serjeant,  216. 


Tettesworth — cont. 

,  Nicholas,  Nicholas  de,   343, 

450,  555,  556,  559,  562. 
Teuelby,    Thomas,    monk   of    Kirk- 
stead,   388. 
Teukesbury.     See  Tewkesbury. 
Tewder,  Tewedre,  Richard,  clerk,  96, 

279. 
Tewkesbm'y,  Teukcsbury  [co.  Glou- 
cester],   St.     Clary's     abbey, 

abbot  of,  215. 
, and  convent  of, 

117,  118. 

,  .  .  .  .,  cell  of.     See  Bristol. 

,  .  .  .  .,fovmdorof.  SeeHamon, 

Robert  son  of. 
Tej'e.     See  Tye. 
Teynton,  Richai'd  dc,  of  Coventry, 

110. 
Thakeham,    Thakliam,    co.    Sassex, 

419. 
Thame    [co.    Oxford],    hundred    of, 

bailiff  of.    See  Fxvcsle,  Robert. 
,  road  from  Long  Ci'endon  to, 

Tameweye,    Thamweye,    353. 
Thame,  Tame,  John,  Jolm  de,  451, 

588,  610. 

, ,  of  Westbury,  603. 

Robert,  citizen  of  London, 

119. 
Thames,  river.  20,  28,  31,  58,   178, 

209,      241,     287,     327,     330, 

497. 
,  enlargement  of  channel  of, 

402. 
,  keepers   of   passage  in,    42, 

312,  384,  422,  477,  594.     See 

also  Britford,  William. 
,  searchers  in,   42.     See  also 

Britford,      William  ;      Page, 

John  ;    Potj-n,  Nicholas. 
,  %yeirs,  mills  and  stakes    in, 

11. 
Thamweye.     See  Thame. 
Thanyslegh.     See  Thongsleigh. 
Tharston,    Therston,    Thirston,    co. 

Norfolk,  378,  488. 
Thaxted,  co.  Essex,  Yardley,  Yerdele 

in,  492. 
Thebaxid,    John   son   of   Robert,    of 

Old  Sleaford,  307,  534. 
,  Peter,  clerk,  son  of  Robert, 

of  Old  Sleaford,  306,  534. 

,  Robert.  534. 

Cf.  Theobald,   Tibald. 

Theddlethorpe,  Thetelthoi-p,  Thctil- 

thorp,  CO.  Lincoln,  manor  of, 

379. 
,  parson  of.     See  Sloby,  Wil- 
liam de. 


79G 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Thelbridgo,  co.  Dovon,  Stoiu'ton, 
Stiirdoton  Yerdorigh  and 
Stretch,   Strotthcton  in,   523. 

Thelnotliani,  Jolin,  492,  493. 

Thelveton,  Tholveton  [co.  Norfolk], 
378. 

Thenford,  Nicholas  de,  48. 

Theobald,  Alan  son  of,  de  Twithani, 

194. 
See  Thobaud,  Tibald. 

Therston.     See  Tharston. 

Thotelthorp,  Thotilthorp.  See  Thed- 
dlothorpe. 

Thewelyn,  Richard  ap,  66. 

Tliiknes,  Peter  de,  590. 

,  William  de,  clerk,  590. 

Thillyngforde.      See    Shillingford. 

Thirnyiig,  William,  48. 

Tliirston.     See  Tharston. 

Thodenham,  parson  of.  See  Outeby, 
Kichard  de. 

Tholveton.     See  Thelveton. 

Thomas  earl  of  Lancaster,  restitu- 
tion of  lands  of  adlierents  of, 
377,  378. 

Thomas,  Hem-y  son  of,  de  Standen, 
481. 

,  John,  189. 

,  ....  son  of,  356. 

,  Robert  son  of,  de  Cumber- 
worth,  337. 

Thomer,  William,  583. 

Cf.  Thorner. 

Thomonore,  John  de,  57. 

Th  one  worth.     See  Tanworth. 

Thongsleigh,  Thanyslegh,  Thwenges- 
legh  [in  Cruwys  IMorchard], 
CO.  Devon,  fee  in,  339,  523. 

Thoralby,  Thorwaldby  [in  Aysgai'th, 
CO.  York],  239. 

Thoresb5%  John,  archbishop  of  York, 
39.  83.  Ill,  204,  252,  256,  268, 
269,  287,  460,  462,  463,  563, 
586,  588,  594. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  bishop  of  Worcester, 

410. 

,  Richard  de,   keeper  of  the 

hanaper  of  chancery,   514. 

Thorington,  Thoriton  [co.  Suffolk], 
569. 

Thorle,  John  de,  of  Barton,  591,  592. 

Thorlegh,  Henry,  602. 

Thorley,  Isle  of  Wight,  Lee,  la  Lee  in, 
280,  284,  285. 

Thornagh.     See  Thornoy. 

Tliornburgh,  Roland  de,  knight  of  the 
shire  of  Westmoreland,  612. 

,  William  de,   laiight   of  the 

shire  of  Westmoreland,    612. 

Thomby.    See  Thumby. 


Thorndon   [co.   Suffolk],   parson  of. 

See  Cokefeld,  Adam  de. 
Thorne,  Adam  atte,  356. 

,  John  atte,  341. 

, de,  331. 

Thorner,  WilHain,  338, 

r/.  Thomer. 

Thornoton.     See  Thornton. 
Thorn(;y,    Thornagh    [co.    Notting- 
ham], 548. 
Thorney,  — ,  456. 

,  John  de,  372. 

Thorneyburn,  co.   Northumberland, 

Emblehope,     Hemilhope     in, 

121. 
Thornhaghe,  Thomas  de,  of  Lincoln, 

farmer  of  subsidy,  133,  172. 
ThornhiU,  TJiornhull   [in  Cliffe  Py- 

pard],  CO.  Wilts,  175. 
Thornton  Cui'tis  [co.  Lincoln],  abbot 

of,  44,  241,  242. 
,    ....   and  convent  of, 

589. 
in  Craven  [co.  York],  parson 

of.    See  StajTigi'eve,  Nicholas 

de. 
le  Moor,  Thometon,  co.  Lin- 
coln,  advowson  of,   580. 
Steward,  Sty  ward,  co.  York, 

manor  of,  459,  543. 
Tower,  in  Tyndale  [in  New- 

brough,  CO.  Northiunberland], 

manor  of,  121. 
Thornton,  Thorneton,  Ivo  de,  ver- 

derer  of  Galtres  forest,   237, 

362. 

,  John  de,  336. 

,  William  son  of  Thomas  de, 

pavilloner,   332. 
Thorp,  Thorpe,  Adam  son  of  William 

de,    knight,    of    Nottingham- 
shire, 548. 

Edmund  de,  justice,  240. 

,  knight,  340,  564. 

, ,  ....,  of  Norfolk,  422. 

,  .....  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Norfolk,  289,  316. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  sheriff  of  Norfolk  and 

Suffolk,  422. 

,  Ellis  de,  323,  338. 

,  John,  Jolui  de,  clerk,  55. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  king's  clerk,  533. 

,   .  .  .  . ,    .  .  .  . ,    keeper   of   the 

changes  in  the  Tower  of  Lon- 
don, 525. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight,  550. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Wilts,   100. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  warden  of  the  mint  in 

the  ToTver  of  London,  1. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


797 


TJiorp — cont. 

,  Maud  wife  of  Adam  do,  548. 

,  Pliili})    do,    of    Liucolusliire, 

G07. 
,  liobert,  Robert  do,  diancol- 

lor,  260,   287,   314,   321,   424. 

427,  432,  438,  531,  532. 
,  .....  .  .  .  . ,  delivery  of  great 

seal  to,  221. 
,  . .  .  . ,    chief    justice    of    the 

Common  Bench,  94. 

,   .  .  .  .,  justice,  70. 

,....,     ....    for    .survey    of 

Himtingdou  bridge,   140. 
kniglit,  19,  75,  93,  111. 

287,  430,  440,  531,  532. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  death  of,  445. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  tlie  elder,  440. 

,  ....    son    of    William    de, 

kiiight,  569. 
,  Tliomas    de,    clerk    of    the 

slieriff  of  Yorksliire,  6. 
,  William,    WiHiam    de,     19. 

55,  518. 

, ,  knight,  531,  532,  569. 

,  ....    son    of    William    de, 

kniglit,  569. 
Thorp  Ai'ch,  Ai'che,  co.  York,  528. 
Hall,    Northorji    [in    Soutli- 

clnircli],  CO.  Essex,  manor  of, 

494,    495. 
Langton.    See  Thorpe  Lang- 
ton. 
Morieux,    Trutonethorp,    co. 

Suffolk,  fee  in,  492,  493. 
Thorpe     Aclnu'ch,      Achirclie,      co. 

Nortliampton,  manor  of,  500. 
Arnold,  co.  Leicester,  fee  in, 

274. 
by    Wcstby.       See    Basing- 

thorpe. 
Langton,  Thorp  Langton  [co. 

Leicester].  239. 
Watervillo         [in        Thorpe 

Achurch],   co.   Northampton, 

manor  of,  500. 
Thorpkilton.     See  Kilton. 
Thorwaldby.     See  Thoralby. 
Thorwaldby,  William  de,  239. 
Thoryton  in  IlketsliaU  [co.  Suffolk], 

569. 

manor  of,  569. 

Thourgoute,  William,  351. 

thread,  green,  325,  328. 

Threk.    See  Tresk. 

tliresholds  of  the  saints,  pilgrimage 

to,  28. 
Thresk.    See  Tresk. 
Throapham    [co.     York],     Thwaite, 

Twayte  in,  377. 


Tiirocking,    co.    Hertford,    Wakely, 

\\'akele  in,  502. 
Through     Burn     [in      Kirlcnewton] 

?  TrolloiMi,    CO.    Northumber- 
land, manor  of,  448. 
Throwe,  Jolui,  of  Dicldeburgh,  378. 
Tliulston,    Tluula.ston,    co.     Derby, 

564,  565.    • 
Thunderl(>y,    Tlumderle    [in    Wim- 

bi.sh],  CO.  Essex,  fee  in,  492. 
Thurliarn,  Ralph,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Surny,  101. 
Thurcaston,  Thurgarston,  co.  Leices- 
ter, 351,  352. 
,  Cropston,  Cropstovui,  Cropt- 

son  in,  274,  352. 
Thurgi'ym,  William,  90. 
Thurkiide,  John,  286. 
Thiu'laston  [in  Dimchurch],  co.  War- 
wick, manor  of,  374. 

See  Thulston. 

Thurmound,  David,  80. 

Tiuu-nby,  Thornby,  co.  Leicester,  fee 

in,  274. 

,  Bushby,  Busseby  in,  274. 

Thurrock,    West,    Westthorrok    [co. 

E.ssex],  294. 
Thurstan,  John,  of  Water  Eaton,  429. 
Thm-toim,  William,  282. 
Thwaite,  Twavte  [in  Throapham],  co. 

York,  377. 
Thwayt,  Thomas,  566. 
Thwaytes,  Margaret  wife  of  Thomas 

\le,  235. 
Thwong,  Edmund,  141. 
,  John    de,    verderer    of    the 

forest  of  Galtrys,  9. 
IMargaret  wife  of  Edmund, 

141. 
,  William  de,  of  Foston,  333, 

334. 
Thwengeslegh.      See  Thongsleigh. 
Thwongo,  CO.  York,  189. 
Tibald,  John,  butcher,  283. 

Cf.  Thebaud,  Theobald. 

Tibenham,  Tybenham  [co.  Norfolk], 

vicar  of.    See  Clerk,  William. 
Tibetot,    Tibtot,    Tybetot,    Tybtot, 

Elizabeth  daiighter  of  Robert 

de,  396. 
mother    of    Payn    de, 

565. 
Margaret  daugliter  of  Robert 

de,  396. 
wife  of  Robert  de,  396, 

397,  468,  469. 
,  Milicent  daiighter  of  Robert 

do,  396. 
,  Payn  son  of  John,  lord  of 

Langar,  445,  665. 


798 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Tibetot — cont. 

,  Robert,  Robert  de,  knight, 

396,  397,  445,  446,  501. 
,  lord  of  Langar,  72,  73, 

114. 
,  .....   parson  of    Somerton, 

22. 
Tibthorpe  [in  Kirkbiirn],  co.  York, 

528 
Tickhill,    Tiklmll,    Tykhill,    Tykliull 

[CO.  York],  377,  391. 

,  Bagley  Groen,  Bagle  in,  377. 

,  castle  ami   honour   of,  377, 

506. 

,  manor  of,   506. 

Tidecombe,  William  de,  receiver  of 

Dover  castle,  384. 
Tidonham,  Tndonam  [co.  Gloucester], 

manor  of,  376. 

,  Lancaut,  la  Kaute  in,  376. 

Tidrynton.     .See  Tytherington. 
Tikene,  John,   355. 
TikhuU.     See  Tickliill. 
Tilbryg'.     See  Till  Bridge. 
Tilehurst,    Tyegelluu'st,    co.    Berks, 

197.  199. 
Tilgarsley,  Tilgerdesle  [in  Eynsham, 

CO.  Oxford,  {now  Freeland  ?)], 

232. 
Till   Bridge,   Tilbryg'  [co.  Lincohi], 

388'. 
Tillinglmm,  Tyllyngham  [co.  Essex], 

vicarage  of,  159. 
Tillington,    Tullynton    [in    Burghill, 

CO.  Hereford],  deeds  dated  at, 

75,  76. 
Tilney,      co.      Norfolk,      IsHngton, 

Usjnagton  in.  560. 
Tilneye,  Tyhiav,  Frederick  de,  248. 
,   of   Boston,    567,   570, 

571. 

,  Jolin  de,  chaplain,  174. 

Tilwerde  marsli  in  Great  Stambridge, 

CO.  Essex,  586. 
Timsbury,  Tymbersbergh,  co.  Somer- 
set,  414. 
tin,  mines  of,  195. 
Tipperarv,  Tiperary,  eoiuity  of,  Ire- 

laSad,  381. 
Tirel,  Tirell.     See  Tyrell. 
Tiryngham,  John  de,  77. 
Tiryngton,   William  de,   the   king's 

notary,  424. 
Tisbury,  co.  Wilts,  Billegh  in,  344. 
Tiscott,  Tyseote  [in  Tring,  co.  Hert- 
ford], 447,  448. 
Tissington,   Tissyngton,    Tyssynton, 

Richard  de,  clerk,  95",  550,  551. 
Tisted,    East,    Tystede,    co.    Hants, 

manor  of,  508. 


'     Tisted,  East — cont. 

,   keeper  of  Rotherfield 

manor     in.        See      Botoun, 

Robert. 
Titclimarsli,  Tycliemei-ssh,  co.  North- 
ampton,  manor  of,   309. 
Titer.slee,  Henry  do,  567. 
Tocliet.  John,  432,  437,  438. 
Toddy,  Robert,  of  Barton,  591,  592. 
Toft,  CO.  Cambridge,  604. 

CO.  Lincoln,  379. 

Monk«  [co.  Norfolk],  parson 

of.     See  Purclias,  Geoffrey. 
Toft,  Jolm  de,  mayor  of  Coventry, 

110. 

,  TJiomas  de,  570. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Boston,  567. 

Telle,  Lambert,  365,  366. 

ToUero,  John,  324. 

,  William,  the  king's  moneyer, 

306. 
Tolleslnint       Ivnights,       Tolshimte 

Kriiglites,  co.  Essex,  94. 
Tolthorp  [co.  York  ?],  deed  dated  at, 

66. 
Toly,  Edmund,  burgess  of  Newcastle 

tmder    Lyme    in    parliament, 

477. 

,  Roger,  609. 

tombs,  413. 

Tonbridge,  Tonbrugge,  co.  Kent,  182, 

183,  184,  185. 
Tonge,  Tongg',  William,  559. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  merchant  of  London, 

404. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  London,  275. 

Tony's,  Tonyesfee  in  Long  Stanton, 

CO.  Cambridge,  manor  of,  123. 
Topclyf,  Topclive,  Toppeclyf,  John 

de,  79. 

,  Richard  de,  542. 

,  William,  William  de,  79. 

,  .  .  .  . ,    bailiff    of    the    arch- 
bishop     of     Canterbury     at 

Maidstone,    189. 
Toppesfield,  Toppesfeld,  co.  Essex, 

388. 

,  fee  in,  492. 

Topyngeho,  John.  322 

Tor,  Torre  abl>ey  [in  Tormoham],  co, 

Devon,  Jolm  abbot  of,  89. 
Torayne.     See  Turenne. 
Torel,  Tliomas.  565. 
Torighe.     See  Torridge. 
Torkeseye,  Matthew  de,  clerk,  470, 

595. 
Torksey,  Torkeseye  [co.  Lincoln],  207. 

',  prior  of,"  207. 

,  prioress  of  Fosse  priory  in, 

207. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


799 


Tormohaia,  co.  Devon,   Tor,   Torre 

ablH>y  in,  89. 
Tornok.     See  Tarnock. 
Torre.     See  Tor. 
Torridge,  Toriglio,  river,  co.  Devon, 

fishery  of,   342. 
Torrington,  ilarket,  Cliepyngtoriton, 

Chepyngtoryton  [co.  Devon], 

339,  342,  522. 

advowson  of,  339,  522,  523. 

,  castle  of,  522. 

,  .  .  .  .,  chapel  in,  523. 

,   .  .  .  . , chantry  in,  339. 

,  manor  of,  34,  35.   IGl,  339, 

343,  522. 

market  at,  342. 

,  place.s  named  in,  342. 

Torrington,  PJiilip  de,  archbishop  of 

Cashel,  G09. 
Torsmere.     See  TiLsniore. 
Torteworth.     See  Tortworth. 
Tortington,  Tortj-ngton,  TortjTiton, 

CO.  Sussex,  deed  dated  at.  572. 

,  manor  of,  572,  589. 

Tortworth,  Torteworth,  co.  Glouces- 
ter, 421. 

,  deed  dated  at,  421. 

Tortjaigton,  Tortj-nton.  See  Torting- 
ton. 
Toseland,  Touleslond.  Touslond  [co. 

Himtingdon],  lumdi'edof,  140, 

,  manor  of,  150. 

Tosere,  John,  82. 

Tossen  [in  Rotliburj-]  ?   Tossam,  co. 

Northiunberland,   400. 
Toteliill,  John  de,  308. 
Totenhale.     See  Tettenhall. 
Toteshale,  Roger,  citizen  of  Lincoln 

in  parUament,  612. 
Totham,  Great,  co.  Essex,  94. 

,  Little,  CO.  Essex,  95. 

Totnes,  Totten'.  co.  Devon,  burgess 

of,  in  parliament,  298. 
Toucestre.     See  Towcester. 
Toucestre,  Alan,  74. 
de,  of  Market- Street, 

20,  21. 
touch,    keeper    of    the.       See   Tour, 

EiLstace  de  la. 
Touleslond.     See  Toseland. 
Tounley,  Toimlay,   Richard  de,  es- 

cheator   in    Lancashire,    268, 

528. 
,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Lancaster,  290. 
Totir,  Eustace  de  la,  keeper  of  the 

touch  in  the  Tower  of  London, 

1. 
Toures,  Tours,  Totu-se,  Jolm,  332. 
, ,  . .  . . ,  of  London,  draper,  535. 


Toures — eont. 

Thomas,  82. 

Tourle,  Richard,  352. 
Toiu-s,  Tourse.     .See  Toures. 
Touslond.     See  Toseland. 
Towan     [in     St.    Columb     Minor]  ? 
Tywyn   by  Patristell  [Fistral 
IJav  ?],  CO.  Cortiwall,  bailiffs 
of,  "509. 
Towcester,  Toucestre,  co.  Xorthamp- 

ton,  Huberdesmedo  in,  47. 
Towen,  John,  of  Sherborne,  391. 
Toynton,  co.  Lincoln,  manor  of,  379. 
Tracy,  John,  259. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  biu-goss  of  Calais,  306. 

,  kniglit  of  the  .sliire  of 

Gloucester,   100. 

, the  yoimger,  596. 

trade,  freedom  of,  300,  301. 
trades  : — 

armoiu-ers,  86,  474,  475,  573. 
bakers,  67.  484. 
butchers,  31,  32,  96,   178,  283, 
285,  286,  291,  438,  449,  579. 
calster,  535. 
capixjr,  496. 

carpcTiters,  65,  144,  155. 
clothmakers,  86. 
cooks,  584. 
coopers,  180. 
cordwainers,  291,  538,  540,  544, 

591,  605. 
cornmongers,  323. 
cosjTiers,  405. 
drapers,    80,    81,   86,    174,    535, 

584. 
drawyer,  611. 
dj-ers,  535,  591. 
felmongers,  325,  328. 
fisliers,  109. 
fishmongers,  fis.shemongers,  312- 

314,  323,  453,  582. 
fullers,  611. 
glovers,  glouveres,  441. 
goldsmiths,  setteres,  1,  104,  174, 

323,  371,  426,  455,  535. 
harsshere,  343. 
hostlers,  260. 
ironmongers,  545. 
masons,  89,  144,  516. 
mercers,  80,  82,   181,  218,  279, 

295,  323,  404,  474,  600. 
pavilloners,  332. 
pelter,  90. 
pepporers,  573. 
pultors,  440.  585. 
saddlers,    174.    317,    324,    332, 

514,  598,  610. 
sldnners,    284,    318,    325,    328, 
491.  545,  551,  564. 


800 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


trades — cont. 

spicers,  324,  332. 

tailors,  378,  429,  43G,  538,  584, 

585,  599. 
tanners,  291. 
tapicers,  40,  99,  591. 
tavemers,  470,  585. 
vintners,  72,  452,  545,  559,  606. 
webbe,  548. 
woohnongors,  45G. 
Traille,  Jolm,  392. 

,  ....  son  of  Jolm,  392. 

Tralcan,  Robert,  of  Cowton,  465. 

Tratynton.     See  Trotton. 

Travers,  Alice  wife  of  Tlionias,  536. 

Richard,  clerk,  536. 

,  Robert,  492. 

,  Thomas,  15,  68,  69. 

,  knight,  536,  546. 

treasurer,   the.      See    BrentingJiani, 
Thomas  de;  Lescrope,  Rich- 
ard, 
treasury',  the,  77,  345. 

,  doc\mient  in.  302. 

,  seals  in,  90,  94. 

writings  kept  in,  597. 

Tregate,  Treggct  [in  Llanrothal],  co. 

Hereford,  manor  of,  144. 
Treglaston.  Treclasta  [in  Davidstow. 

CO.  Cornwall],  439. 
Trelleck,  Trillek,  Thomas,  bishop  of 
Rochester,  252,  462,  468,  5.54. 
Tremaen,  TremajTi,  Jolin,  86,  439, 
441. 

,  burgess  of  Helston  in 

parliament,  298. 

, of  Launceston  in 

parliament,  290. 

,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Cornwall,  100. 
Trenant.     See  Trenewan. 
Trenchard,  John,  330,  333. 
Trenethow.     See  Trenowth. 
Trenewan,    Trenant    [in    Lnnsallos], 

CO.  Cornwall,  manor  of,  35. 
Trenewj-th,  John  de,  knight  of  tlie 
shire  of  Cornwall,   289,   298, 
316. 
Trenowth,    Trenethow    [in    Probns], 

CO.  Cornwall,  manor  of,  86. 
Trent,  river,  in  Yorkshire  and  Lin- 
colnshire, jnstices  to  observe 
and  keep,  163. 
Trerwarnaille.      See  Tj^warnhaile. 
Tresilian.    Treszilian,     Robert,     87, 
91,  93,  451,  583. 

,  ....  do,  learned  in  the  law, 

59. 
Tresk,  Threk,  Thresk,  Ralph  de,  473, 
490. 


Tresk,  Ralph  de — cont. 

escheator  in  Lincoln- 

shiro,  491,  500,  506,  510,  511, 
531. 

,  Richard  de,  537. 

Treszilian.     See  Tresilian. 
Treton,  Richard,  Richard  de,  clerk, 
440,  445,  531,  532,  535,  590. 
king's  clerk  dwelling  in 

chancery,  596. 
Treverbyn,  James,  583,  584. 
Trevet.     See  Trivet. 
Trevisquite,    Trevj-sqiioyd     [in     St. 

Mabyn],  co.  Cornwall,  560. 
Trevisa,  Tre\'j'sa,  Ralph,  burgess  of 

Laimceston     in     parliament, 

290,  298. 
Trevivian,  Trevyvan  [in  Davidstow, 

CO.  CornwaU],  439. 
Trevysa.    See  Trevisa. 
Tre\'ysqunyd.     See  Trevisquite. 
Tre\'y\'an.     See  Trevivian. 
Trewannctt     [in   St.   Juliott]  ?  Tro- 

Avathenant,      co.       Cornwall, 

manor  of,  86. 
Trewarnaille,     Trewarnayl.  See 

Tj^varnhaile. 
Trewathenant.      See   Trewannett. 
Trewemath,  RejTiold,  279. 
Trej^dener,  Richard,  472. 
Trillek.     See  Trelleck. 
TrUlowe,  TrUlou,  Joan  wife  of  John, 

127. 

,  Jolin,  knight,  309. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Berks,  101. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the  younger,  127. 

,  Thomas,  427. 

, ,  chaplain,  293,  294. 

,  Walter,    the    king's    lumts- 

man,  16. 
Tring,  co.  Hertford,  Aldwick,  Alde- 

w^'k,  Betlow,  Bettelowe,  and 

Tiscott,  Tyscote  in,  447,  448. 
Tripe,  Jolm,  187. 

Triple,  Jolm  de,  fishmonger,  of  Lon- 
don, 453. 
Trippok,  John  brother  of  Stephen,  of 

Dickleburgh,   378. 
,  Stephen,     of     Dickleburgh, 

378. 
Trivet,     Trevet,     Tryvet,     Thomas, 

knight,  452,  559. 
Trollope.     See  Tlirough  Biu-n. 
Trotton,     Tratjnaton     [co.     Sussex], 

nianor  of,  407. 

,  Diunpford,  Dynford  in,  407. 

Trow,  Trowe  [in  Berwick  St.  John, 

CO.  Wilts],  344. 
,  manor  of,  421,  518.  . 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


801 


Trowoll,  Jolm,  bvu-goss  of  Derby  in 

jjarliament,  298. 
Trowitliy,  Robert,  clerk.  547. 
Triunpiiigton,      Triunpyugton,      co. 

Cambridge,  fee  in,  274. 
Trum]>.yngtoii,  Roger  do,  274. 
Triu'o,  Tr\u-u,  co.  Cornwall.  35. 

,  advowson  of  dmn^h  of,  35. 

,  bnrgess    of,    in    parliament, 

298. 
Trutonethorp.     See  Thorp  Morieiix. 
Tryvot.     See  Trivet. 
Tuam  [co.   Galway],  Gregory  arch- 
bishop of,  411,  469. 
Tndenam.     See  Tidenham. 
Tudenham.  Thomas  de,  227. 
.......  Walter,   of  London,    605. 

Tulliot.     See  Tulyet. 
Tullynton.     See  Tillington. 
Tulyet,  Tnlliot,  Tuylet,   Alice   (Sal- 

jTig)  sister  of  Robert,  282. 

,  Robert,  282,  587. 

,  . .  .  . ,  of  Cambridge,  584. 

Tunemen,  Bondina'^,  of  Sluys,  ship- 
master, 225. 
Tunstall,  Dimstall,  co.  Kent,  manor 

of,  359. 
Tunstall,  Tunstal,  Thomas,  rector  of 

Norbury,   446,   447,   448. 
Txirberville,  Turber\yle,  Cicely,  lady 

of    Hatch    Beauchamp,    331, 

336,     560. 
Turenne,     TorajTie     [France,     dep. 

Correze],     viscount     of,     the 

pope's  envoy,   387. 
Turk,  Juliatia  wife  of  Peter,  105. 

,  Peter,  105. 

,  Robert,  citizen  of  London, 

179. 
Walter,  mayor  of,   and  es- 

cheator  in  London,  36. 
Turn    Chester     [in    Carham]  ?    An- 

trechestre,    co.    Northumber- 
land, manor  of,  448. 
Turner,  Thomas,  534. 
Turnham     Hall,    Tuniumhalle     [in 

Hemingbrough],     co.     York, 

manor  of.  394,  395. 
Turvey    [co.    Bedford],    manor    of, 

494. 
Tasmore,  Torsmere  [in  co.  Oxford], 

fields  of,  238,  512. 
Tuwe,  Thomas,  105,  106. 
Tuylet.     See  Tulyet. 
Tuyvord.     See  Tv\'yford. 
Twaxiie.     See  Thwaite. 
Twiford.    See  Twj-ford. 
Twitham,  Alan  son  of  Theobald  de, 

194. 
Twj-ford  [co.  Buckingham],  22. 


Twyford — co)it. 

,  Tuyvord,  Twyvord  in  Ear- 

disland,  Erselone  [co.  Here- 
ford], riot  at,  242,  244. 

,  Tywford  [co.  Norfolk],  598. 

advowson  of,  598. 

Twyford,  Twiford.  Edward  de, 
knight,  524,  572'. 

,  Nicholas    de,    goldsmith    of 

London,  1. 

,  Robert,   Robert  de,   278. 

,  escheator  in  Derby- 
shire, 35,  49,  151,  163,  252, 
253. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Nottingham- 
shire, 2,  49,  252,  253. 

, ,  knight,  93,  432,  437, 

438,  565. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  sliire  of 

Derby,  100. 

Twygrayn  [by  the  Humber,  co. 
York,  or  co.  Lincoln],  242. 

Twyvord.     See   Twyford. 

Tybenham.     See  Tibenham. 

Tybetot,  Tybtot.    See  Tibetot. 

Tychemerssh,    See  Titchmarsh. 

Tydynge,  Henry,  parson  of  East 
Bradenham,  88. 

Tye,  Teye,  Jolm  de,  escheator  in 
Kent,  9,  10,  137,  210. 

,  Peter  de,  492. 

,  Robert  de,  69,  492. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight,  562. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Essex,  289. 

Tyece,  John,  coroner  of  Kent, 
358. 

Tyegelhurst.     See  Tilehiu-st. 

Tykliill,  TykluiJI.     See  Tickliill. 

Tylderlegh,  Thomas,  of  London, 
goldsmith,    104. 

Tylere,  Hugh,  349. 

Tylljaigham.     See  Tillingham. 

Tylnay.     See  Tilney. 

Tvmbersbergh.     See  Timsbury. 

Tvmkoc,  Robert.  551. 

T>niby.     See  Tenby. 

Tvniedale,  Tyndale  [co.  Northtmiber- 
land],  liberty  of,   296. 

,   bailiff  of.  See  Strother, 

Alan  de. 

Tynemouth,  TJ^lomuth  [co.  North- 
umberland], bailiffs  of,  482, 

Tynkelden,  Thomas,   596. 

TjTiton.  Robert  de,  parson  of  Uffing- 
ton.  394. 

Tyrell,  Tirel,  Tirell.  Tvi-el,  Alice  wife 
of  Thomas,  597. 

,Hugh,  76. 

, ,  knight,  330,  333. 

CB   61 


802 


OEXRRAL    TXDRX. 


Tyrell — cont. 

,  Ricliavd  of  Colan,  coroner  of 

Cornwall,  3G3. 

,  Thomas,  272,  597. 

,   .....  knight,   81. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  kniglit  of  the  shire  of 

Essex,  101,  476,  612. 

TjTvvliit,  John,  of  Beverley,  580. 

,  William,  clerk  of  chancery, 

.'-)02. 

Tyscote.     See  Tiscott. 

Tyssynton.     Sec  Tissington. 

Tystecle.    See  Tisted. 

Tytlierington,  Tidrynton,  co. 
Gloucester,  53. 

,  Itchington,  Ichenton  in,  53. 

Tyveryngton.     See  Terrington. 

Tyveteshale,  Thomas  de,  181. 

Tywarnliaile,  Trerwarnaille,  Tre- 
warnaille,  Trewarnaj-1  [in 
Perran-Zab\iloo],  co.  Corn- 
wall, manor  of,  86,  558. 

Tywford.    See  Twyford. 

TywjTi.    See  Towan  ? 


u 

Uffewille.     See  Offwell. 

Uffington,  Uffyngton  [co.   Lincoln], 

parson      of.        See     Tynton, 

Robert  de. 

,  Caswick,  Casewyk  in,  54. 

Ufford,   Robert  de,  earl  of  Suffolk. 

474,  486. 
, ,    preference    of, 

to  earldom,  500. 
,  William  de,  earl  of  Suffolk. 

171,  339,  340,  345,  348,  418. 

489,  500. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the 

peace  and  justice  in  Norfolk 

329. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  lord  of  Eye  and 

Framlingham,   560. 
UffjTigton.     See  Uffington. 
Ughtibrigge,  Richard  de,  of  York- 
shire, 442.  443. 
Ughtred,  Peter,  193,  580. 

„ ,  Thomas  de,  knight,    147. 

Ulceby  [by  Spilsby],  co.  York,  379. 

Ulcestre.     See  Oxitchester. 

Uldale,   TJlnedale,    co.    Cumberland, 

advowson  of,  31. 
Ulley,     Ullee     in     Kenjmgton"'  [in 

Kennington  |,  co.  Kent,  68. 
Ulnedale.    See  Uldale. 


Ulster,    Ulvester,    Ireland,    lordsliip 

of,  530. 
Ulvecroft,  Alice,  351. 
Ulverscroft,  Ulvecroft,  co.  Leicester, 

prior  of,  351. 
Llvester.     See  Ulster. 
Umframville,  Eleanor  wife  of  Robert 
de,  515,  521. 

Gilbert  do,  earl  of  Angus,  65, 

109,  229,  234,  361,  463,  464. 

,  jNIargaret  wife  of  Rolx-rt  de, 

kniglit,  229,  234. 

,  Maud     (do     Luci)    wife    of 

Gilbert  de.  earl  of  AngiLS,  65. 

,  Robert   de,    229,    256,    515, 

521. 

,  knight,  234. 

Underhull,  Ricliard,  83. 

,  Thomas,  of  Worcestershire, 

421. 
Underwode,  William,  187. 
Unthank  [in  Alnham,  co.  Northum- 
berland], fee  in,  448. 
Upchiuch,    Upcherche,    Upchurche, 

CO.  Kent,  46,  97. 
Uplambome,     Uplambourne.       See 

Lambourne. 
Upminster,   Upmjmstre,   co.    Essex, 
advowson  of,  3. 

,  manor  of,  3. 

Uppingham,  Uppjmgham,  co.  Rut- 
land, church  of,  153. 
Uppyngham.         See       Uppingham, 

Whippingham. 
Upsall,     Upsale     [in     Ormsbv,     co. 

York],  139. 
Upton,  CO.  Himtingdon,  452. 

[in    Sibson],    co.    Leicester, 

.    fee  in,  273. 

,  CO.  York  [W.R.],  189. 

Helions,  co.  Devon,  Haske, 

Vaske  in,   339,   523. 

Noble,  Upton,  co.  Somerset, 

manor  of,  309. 
Upton,  John  de,  coroner  of  Salop, 
236. 

, ,  of  Salisbury,  39. 

,  Philip,  214. 

, de.  clerk,  214. 

Richard  de,  parson  of  Mus- 

grave,  171. 

,  William,    177. 

Cf.  Obdon. 

Upwallop.     See  Wallop. 

Upwell  [co.  Norfolk],  manor  of,  576, 

582. 
Urban  V,  pope  of  Rome,  424. 
Ure,  Yore,  river,  co.  York,  justices 

to  observe  and  keep,    163. 
Uriel.     See  Louth. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


803 


Use.     See  Ouse. 

Ushant,  island  of.  Eysant  by  Brit- 
tany [do]).  Finisterre],  385. 
Ussher,  John,  538. 

,  .....  citizen  of  London.  74. 

Usus   Maris,    Pascalotus,   sj-ndic   of 

dogo     and     commonalty     of 

Genoa,  213,  216. 
Utterby,     Ralpli     do,     burgess     of 

Grimsby  in   parliament,   299. 
Uttoxeter,  to.  Stafford,  Crakomarsli, 

Crakomerssh  in,  74. 
Uttjaig,  Joan  (Bono)  wife  of  John, 

of  Fockerby,  500. 
Uxbridge,  Woxbrugge,  co.  Middlesex, 

428. 
Uxendon,    Woxindon    [in    Harrow], 

CO.  Middlesex,  manor  of,  536. 


V 

Vaclie,  Philip  la,  kniglit,  514. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  son  of  Richard  la,  157. 

Vacher,  Alexander,  561. 

,  William,  561. 

Vaghan,  Thomas,  knight,  416. 

Val,  Robert  de,  205. 

Vale.    See  Valle  Clos. 

Vale,  Walter  de  la,  knight  of  the 
shir(^  of  Northumberland,  612. 

,  WilHam  de  la,  296. 

cliamberlain  of  Ber- 
wick-upon-Tweed,   211. 

,  .....  escheator  in  Northum- 
berland,  531. 

,....,     ....     in    Yorkshire, 

528,  531. 

Valence  [France,  dep.  Drome],  mer- 
chant of,  213. 

Valence,  Joan  wife  of  Stephen  de, 
145,  156.  157. 

,  Stephen  de.   145,    156.   157. 

Vall^  Clos,  Vale  priory,  Guernsey, 
prior  of.     See  Garyny,  John. 

Vallibus,  John  de,  justice  in  eyre  in 
Huntingdonshire.   140. 

Cf.  Vaus. 

Vallis  (House),  Faleyse  [in  Frome, 
CO.  Somerset],  lord  of.  Sec 
WjTidslade,  Stephen. 

Valoj-gne,  Stephen  de,  knight  of  the 
shire  of  Kent,  611. 

Van.  See  Bicel,  DuItjTi,  Intruthjni, 
Nurmargli.  Orde,  Vith', 
Warde. 

Vfines.     See  Vannes. 


Vanno,  Hawiso  wife  of  Peter,  79. 

John  atte.  76. 

Vannes,  Vam^s  [Brittany,  dep.  Mor- 

bihan],  mordiant  of,  58. 
Vaske.    See  Heiske. 
Vaus,    Richard,    verderer    of    Ingle- 
wood  forest,  363. 

Cf.  ValHbus.' 

Vautort,  John,  27,  28. 

,  of  London,  562. 

Vavasour,  Gregory,  98. 

Veel.  Peter  de,  kniglit,  75,  420.  550. 

Cf.  Vyel. 

Veer.  Aubrey  de,  492. 
knight,  340.  429,  577, 

589. 
Maud  wife   of   Tliomas   de, 

earl  of  Oxford.  271-273. 
.....  .....    assignment    of 

dower  to.  492-494. 
Thomas  de,  earl  of  Oxford, 

271,  272,  493. 
,  .....    .....  chamberlain  of 

England.   105,   106. 
Velchurch.     See  Folclnu'ch. 
Velletri,  bishop  of.     See  Ortia  and 

Velletri. 
Venice.    Venise.    Venyse.    Italy,    at- 
torney of  merchants  of.    See 

Petro  Dyne,  James  de. 

,  merchants  of,  399,  414. 

ships  of,  399,  414. 

venison,  trespasses    of,   6,  150,  159. 

233,  255,  371,  386,  444. 
Venour,    William,   William  le.    441. 

456. 

citizen  of  London,  389. 

.....  merchant  of  London, 

121. 
Venyse.     See  Venice. 
Verdon,  Verdoun,  John  de.  knight, 

79. 
,  .  .  .  .,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Northampton,   101. 
, . of  Stafford,  101. 

612. 
Vermieu.     See  Bermeo. 
Vernoun,  Richard,  150. 

,  ....  de,  knight,  78. 

vert,  trespasses  of,  150,  233. 
Vespount.    Elizabeth    (de    Blencou) 

sister  of  Robert  de,  147. 
,  Ellen  wife  of  Nicholas  de, 

147. 
,  Joan    (Wji;lilawe)   sister   of 

Robert  de,  147. 

,  John,  256. 

Nicholas  de,   147. 

,  ....  son  of  Robert,  256. 

,  Robert,   256. 


804 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


Vespount,  Rol)ort — cont. 

,  ....  son  of  Nicliolas  de,  147. 

William  brother  of  Nicholas, 

256. 
vestments,  16C,  381. 
Viang,  Peter  do    Petro,   seaman   of 

Genoa,  509. 
victuals,  sale  of,  177,  180,  452. 
Vigochou,     Nicholas,     mercliant    of 

Piacenza,  233. 
Vikere,  William,  of  Edmonton.  292. 

,   ....  son  of  William,  292. 

Vilers,  Vileres,  John,  551,  552. 

Villamis.  Albert,  409. 

Virley,  Salcote  Virly,  co.  Essex,  94, 

336. 
Virly,     Vjt1j%     Margaret     wife     of 

Thomas,  470. 
,  Roger,   mayor   of   Norwich, 

478. 

,  Thomas,  105. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  called  Girdeler,  citizen 

of  London,  470. 
Viscaye.     See  Biscay. 
Visshawe,  Thomas,  chaplain,  330. 
Vitande,  William,  244. 
Vith',  John  van  der,  390. 
Vokes,  Robert,  497. 
Vox,  jolm,  of  Greenwich,  226. 
Vrij,    Het,    le    Franc    [division    of 

Flanders],  300. 
Vrye,  Richard  le,  mayor  of  Winches- 
ter,  593. 
Vydeleu,    Thomas,    knight    of    the 

shire  of  Suffolk,  101. 
Vyel,  John,  83. 

Cf.  Veel. 

Vyen,  Herman  de,  579. 

VjTicent,  Agnes  wife  of  Richard,  291. 

,  Christina  wife  of  Jolm,  331. 

,  John,  mercer,  82. 

, ,  of  London,   102,  277, 

535,  536. 

, ,  the  elder,  331. 

,  .  .  .  .,  the  younger,  331. 

,  Richard,   of  London,   cord- 

wainer,  291. 
,  .  .  .  .,  parson  of  St.  Osyth, 

London,   574. 
Vyne,  John  atte,  rector  of  St.  Mildred 

in  the  Poultry,  London,  562. 
Vynter,  Vynyter,  Luke,  596. 

,  William,  427. 

Cf.  Wynter. 

Vyrly.     <See  Virly. 

Vyse.     See  Devizes. 

Vytte,  Geoffrey,  of  Penryn,  52. 


w 

Wtkas.     See  Waco. 

Waccho.     See  Weche. 

Wace,  Waas,  Gilbert,  Gilbert  do,  419, 

,  knight,  343,  450,  555, 

556,   502,   602. 

Wacton,  Wakotoii,  co.  Norfolk,  488. 

Wadborough,  Wadbergh  [in  Holy 
Cross],  CO.  Worcester,  manor 
of,  108,  453,  454. 

Waddon  Hall,  Wadenhale  [in  Wal- 
tham],  CO.  Kent,  165. 

Waddon.     *See  Whaddon. 

Wade,  John,  104. 

,  Robert,  of  Chesterton,  385. 

Wadele,  Wadeleye.     See  Wadley, 

Wadenliale.     See  Wadden  Hall. 

Wadenhoe,  Wadenhow,  co.  North- 
ampton, manor  of,  603,  604. 

Wadeworth.     See   Wadworth. 

Wadley,  Wadele,  Wadeleye  [in  Far- 
ingdon],  co.  Berks,  manor  of, 
168,  187. 

Wadling,  Wodljoag  [in  Ripple,  co. 
Kent],  bailiffs  of  manor  of, 
117. 

Wadworth,  Wadeworth,  co.  York, 
manor  of,  567. 

Wadworth,  John  de,  97. 

Wadyngham,  Henry,  of  Grimsby, 
sheriff  of  Lincolnshire,  500. 

Wadyngton,  John,  351. 

Wafir,  John,  164. 

Wainfieet,  Waynfiete,  co.  Lincoln, 
bailiffs  of,  129. 

,  wool  cast  ashore  at,  130. 

WamhojDs,  Waynhope  [co.  Northum- 
berland], 121. 

,  park  of,  121. 

Wake,  Blanche,  370. 

,  Hugh,  138. 

,  John,  566. 

Wakebridge,  Wakebrugge  [in  Mat- 
lock, CO.  Derby],  550. 

Wakebrigge,  Wakebrugge,  Elizabeth 
wife  of  William  de,  550. 

,  William  de,  95,  100,  550. 

Wakebrugge.      See   Wakebridge, 
Wakebrigge. 

Wakefeld,  Henry,  Henry  de,  king's 
clerk,  keeper  of  the  great 
wardrobe,  147. 

,  ...  .,  treasurer  of  the  house- 
hold, 424. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


805 


Wakely,  Wakch^  [in  Tlirockiiig],  co. 

Hertford,   atlvowsou  of,   502. 

,  manor  of,   502. 

Wakenian,  Uobort.  cliaplain,  395. 

William,  82. 

Wakoring,     Wakeryng,     Great,     co. 

Essex,  408. 

,  .....  manor  of,  494,  495. 

,  Little,  CO.  Essex,  manor  of, 

494,  495. 
Waketon.    Sec  W'acton. 
Walays.     See  Waleys. 
Walcot,  Walcote,  co.  Lincoln,   195, 

196,  197,  198. 

,  CO.  Norfolk,  manor  of,  379. 

Walcote,  Jolm,  471. 

, ,  draper,  323. 

,  William,  chief  chamberlain 

of  William  Bardolf,  570. 
Waldebeef,      Wyldeboef,      Thomas, 

parson   of    St.    Peter,    West 

Lynn,   459,  470. 
Walden.     See  Saffron  W^alden. 
Waldene,  \V'ald(>re,  Geoffrey,  82,  85, 

186,  442. 

,  Humphrey  de,  knight,  492. 

,  John,  Jolm  do,  81,  132,  581, 

597. 
,  Thomas  son  of  Andrew  do, 

562. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Essex,  97. 

\Valdepiille.     See  Walpole. 
Waldere.     See  Waldene. 
Walderne.     See  Waldron. 
Walderne,  William,  322. 
W^aldeyeve,  William,  coroner  of  co. 

W^arwick,   14. 
Waldingfield,  Great,  Great  Waldjni- 

feld.WaldjTigfeld  [co.  Suffolk], 

fee  in.  492,  493. 
,  Little,     Little     Wald>aifeld, 

Waldyngfeld  [co.  Suffolk],  fee 

in,  492,  493. 
Waldron,  Walderne,  co.  Sussex,  21. 

,  manor  of,  21. 

Waldynfeld,       Waldjaigfeld.         See 

Waldingfield. 
Wales,  6,  116,  121,  154,  158,  499. 
,  fortification    of    castles    in, 

61,  62,  158. 
,  letters  patent  not  to  run  in 

lordships  of  prince  of  Wales 

in,  497. 

,  march  of,  215. 

,  .....    escheators     in.       See 

Aunscl,    William  ;     Hortesle, 

John  de  ;    Perton,  Jolin  de  ; 

Rees,  Jolin  ap. 

,  men  of,  22. 

ministers  in,  61. 


Wales,  ministers — cunt. 

,  .  .  . .    of   Edward   prince   of 

Wales  in,  62. 

,  North,  principality  of,   154. 

,   .  .  .  .,  ciiamborlaiu  of. 

See  Parys,  Robert. 

prince    of.      <S'(;e    Edward. 

,  wool  of,  38.  121,  154,  368. 

Wales,  CO.  York,  Kiveton,  Kyveton 

in,  377. 
Waloton.     See  Walton. 
Waleys,   Walays,   Walissh,   Walsho, 

Walssch,      Walssh,      Welshe, 

Augustine,   344. 

,  Edmund,  82. 

,  Giles  lo,  392. 

Hugh,  of  London,  323. 

,  John,  77,  274. 

,    .....    knight    of    the   shire 

of    Sussex,     101.     289,     297, 

316. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  London,  436. 

,  piu'veyor  of  corn  for 

Calais,  212. 

,  vicar  of  Culworth,  441. 

,  Rali)h,  288. 

,  RicJiard,  205. 

,  Thomas,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Leicester,  288. 

,  Walter,   105,  569. 

,  William,  of  Dalby,  562. 

,  .....  of  London,  538. 

W^alinton.     See  ^Vallington. 
Walissh.     See  Waleys. 
Walkefare,  Thomas,  laught,  492. 
Walkelejni,  Jolin,  prior  of  Swavesey, 

70. 
Walker,  John,  of  Moimtsoi-rel.  13. 
Wall.  CO.  Stafford,  Aldershaw,  Aller- 

shawe  in,  57. 
Wallasoa  island  [co.  Essex],  Acres- 
fleet,  Acresflete  in,  408. 
Walle,  Hugh,  283. 

,  John.  343. 

, atte,  496. 

,  Nicliolas  de,  323. 

Walleswike  [near  Great  Torrington  ?], 

CO.  Devon,  343. 
Walleton.  5eeW^alton. 
wallets,  579. 

Walleworth.     See  Walworth. 
Wallingford,  Walvixgford,  co.  Berks, 

341,  554,  556,  559,  560,  561. 
,  burgesses  of,  in  pai-liament, 

290. 
castle  of  Edward  prince  of 

Wales  at,  275. 
letters  close  dated  at,   391, 

403,  404,  406,  408,  409,  456, 

457,  462,  464,  465,  467,  473. 


806 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Wallington,    Wftlinton,    Walj-ngton, 

Walynton,    Surrey,    83,    341, 

347,  450. 
Wallingu'olls,  Wellandwell,  co.  York 

[and  Nottingliaia],  377. 
Walloj},    Nether,    Netherwallop   [co. 

Hants],  330. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  deeds  dated  at,  330. 

,  Over,  Overwalop,  Upwallop 

[CO.  Hants],  330. 

,  deed  dated  at,  330. 

,   John    parson    of,    72. 

See  also  Walthani,  John  de. 
,  .....   Monekebury  in,    330, 

333. 
Wallop,  John,  330,  333. 
Waltnesford,  John  de,  clerk,  580. 
Walpole,    WaldepiUlo    [in    Pawlett], 

CO.  Somerset,  367. 
Walrauen,  John,  of  Peakirk,  405. 
Walsham  [co.  Norfolk],  hundred  of, 

547. 
le    Willows,    Walsham    [co. 

Suffolk],  576,  582. 
Walsham,  Ralpli,  Ralph  de,  389,  415, 

433,  434. 
.......  Robert    de,    canon    of    St. 

Mary's  church,  Salisbury,  171. 

,  Roger  de,  425,  550. 

William,    WiUiam   de,    535, 

574,  575,  582. 
,   .  .  .  . ,   clerk,   prebendary  of 

Liddington,  171. 
Walshe,     Walssch,     Walssh.        See 

Waleys. 
Walsyngham,  Edmund,  Edmund  de, 

587,  604. 
,  Isabel  wife  of  Edmund  de, 

604. 
Walter,  John  son  of,  de  Carleton,  91, 

190. 

See  Fitz  Walter. 

Waltham,  co.  Kent,  Wadden  Hall, 

Wadenhale  in,  165. 

Holy  Cross  [co.  Essex],  176. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of, 

441. 
,  abbot  of.      See  Wol- 

mersty,  Thomas  de. 
,  prior  and  convent  of, 

245. 
Waltham,  forest  of,  co.  Essex,  470. 
,  election  of  verderers  of,  11, 

371,  507,  522. 
Waltham,  John  de,  83. 
,  .  .  . . ,  parson  of  Over  Wallop, 

329,  3.30,  333. 

,  Richard  de,  clerk,  110. 

Walthamstow,  Welcommestowe,  co. 

Essex,  manor  of,   128. 


Walton     [in     King's     Sutton],     co. 

Nortliampton,  manor  of,  214. 

CO.  Suffolk,  manor  of,  375. 

Cardiff,  Kerdyf,  co.  Glouces- 
ter, 57. 
Dayville,   Walton   [co.  War- 
wick], 602,  604. 
East,  Walton,  co.  Norfolk, 

318. 
upon      Thames,      Walleton, 

Walton,  CO.  Surrey,  manor  of, 

496. 
,  parson  of.    See  Wilie, 

John  de. 
Walton,  Waleton,  John  de,  427,  465. 

Ralph  de,  577. 

,  Thomas  de,  chaplain,  453. 

,  William  do,  481. 

Cf.  Wauton. 

Walworth,    Walleworth,    John,    96, 

532 

William,  WiUiam  de,  433. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  alderman  of  London, 

143,  210. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  42. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  mayor  of  the  staple  of 

Westminster,    218. 
Walyngford.     iSee  Wallingford. 
Walyngford,  John,  555. 
Walyngton.     See  WaUington. 
Walyngton,    John    de,    coroner    of 

Northumberland,   497. 
Walynton.     See  Wallington. 
Wandesford,  John  de,  of  Westwick, 

174. 
son    of    Geoffrey   de, 

84. 

,  Richard,  323. 

Wandswortli,      Wandisworth       [co. 

Surrey],   599. 
Wanhaston.     See  Wenhaston. 
Wantyngge,  John,  427. 
war,  wages  of,  192. 
Warbleton,    Warblynton,    John    de, 

196,  543,  551. 
wards,  inquisition  concerning,  40. 
,  ravishment    and    ejectment 

of,   81. 
Warde,  Joan,  554. 

,  John,  312,  441,  456. 

,   .  .  .  . ,    citizen    of    Norwich, 

222. 

,  of  Clixby,  580. 

, ,  of  Lilley,  87. 

,  Robert  de  la,  knight,  274. 

;.,  Simon,  73,  79,  588. 

,  .  .  .  . ,    escheator    in    North- 
amptonshire,  214,    219,    224, 

232,  237,  282,  354. 
, in  Rutland,  219. 


GENERAL    LNDEX. 


807 


Warde,  Simon — cont. 

,  .  .  .  . ,    keeper    of     Oskliani 

castle,  503. 
,   knight  of  the  shire  of 

Northampton,  470. 
,  .  .  .  . ,    ....   of  the   shire    of 

York,  476. 

,  of  East  Carlton,  610. 

,  ....  van  the,  of    Flanders, 

merchant,  121. 
Thomas,  burgess  of  Bedford 

in    j)arliament,    477. 

, ,  of  Langley,  239. 

Wardedieu,  Alice  wife  of  Jolm,  247. 

Henry,  247. 

,  John,  247. 

,  Robert,  of  Bodiam,  247. 

Warden,  Warden  [co.  Bedford],  66. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  566. 

parson     of.       See     Giffard, 

John. 
Warden  [co.  Nortliampton],  parson 

of.     See  JMiddelton,  John  do. 

See  Warden. 

wardrobe,  the  gi'eat,  keeper  of,   157. 

See  also  Wakefeld,  Henry  do. 
,  the  king's,  keeper  of.     See 

Sleford,  John  do. 
Ware  [co.  Hertford],  bailiffs  of,  483. 

,  priory  of,  165. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  prior  of.     See  Gerard, 

John. 

,  Ralph  vicar  of,   165. 

,  vicars  of,  pension  from,  165. 

Ware,  La\\Tence  de,  309. 
,  Thomas  de,  of  London,  iron- 
monger,  545. 
Wareliam,  Warliam,  co.  Dorset,  213. 
,  burgess   of,    in   parliament, 

298. 
keepers  of  passage  in  port  of, 

449. 
Warenere.     See  Warner. 
Warenford,  co.  Northumberland,  fee 

in,  448. 
Warenier,  Warenner.     See  Warner. 
WarejTi.     See  WarjTi. 
Warham.     See  Wareham. 
Wark,  Werk  in  Tyudale  [co.  North- 
umberland], coxirt  of,   12L 

,  gaol  of,  296. 

,  manor  of,  121,  256. 

Warley,  Warle,  Great,  co.  Essex,  475. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  deed  dated  at,  475. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  475. 

,  Little.     Little    W^arlee,    co. 

Essex,  418. 
Warminster,      \\'erenio\istre,      Wer- 

menstre  [co.  Wilts],  344. 
,  lord  of.    See  Mauduyt,  John. 


Warner,  WarcuiTe,  ^\'arellier,  Waren- 
ner,   Waryner,    Edniund,    89, 

675. 
,  John,      rector      of      Layer 

Marney,  425,  426. 
,  Thomas,    56,    62,    110,    116, 

542,  551. 
Warnham,  Walter  de,'431. 
Warre,  Eleanor  wife  of  Roger  la,  160. 

,  John  la,  knight,  160. 

,    ....     son     of     Roger     ia, 

knight,  282. 

,  Roger  la,   knight,    160. 

Warrewj'k.     See  War\\ick. 
Warsop,  CO.  Nottingham,  manor  of, 

394. 
Warsop,  John  de,  canon  of  St.  Mary, 

Lincoln,   545. 

Thomas  de,  486. 

Wartling,  co.  SiLSsex,  Bo/cham,  Bor- 

ham  in,  296. 
\Varwick,  Wari'eA\yk  [co.  Warwick], 

23,  157,  454,  535. 
,  bm-gesses  of,  in  parliament, 

190,  298. 

,  castle  of,  126. 

justices  to  deliver  gaol   of, 

221. 
\\'arwick,  Warrewvk,  county  of.  80, 

293.  324,  334,  442,  469,  549. 
,  coi'oners   of,    14,    135,    235, 

236,  363,  367,  379,  386,  413, 

501. 
,  escheators  in,  220.     See  also 

Bernard,      Jolm ;       Catesby, 

William  de ;  Foxton,  Richard 

de  ;   Palmer,  William  ;  Rous, 

John. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  100, 

288,  298,  316,  612. 
,  sheriff  of,    14,   23,   26,    135, 

202,  209,  235,  236,  288,  298, 

363,  367,  379,  386,  413,  486, 

501. 

,  subsidy  in,  90,  423. 

Warwick,  earl  of.    See  Bello  Campo, 

Thomas  de. 
Warwyk,  Robert,  of  London,  323. 

,  William,  cliaplain.  395. 

Waryn,  Wareyn.  Alice,  350. 

,  John,   78. 

,   .  .  .  .,  clerk,  513. 

,  coroner  of  co.  Hants, 

395. 
,  Peter,     of     Cambridgeshire, 

449. 

,  Robert,  71. 

coroner  of  co.  Hunt- 
ingdon, 381. 
Simon,   176. 


808 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Waryn — cont. 

,  William,  352. 

See  Fitz  Waryn. 

WaryTier.    See  Warner. 
Washbrook,  Wasshebrouk,  co.   Suf- 
folk, church  of,  344. 

,  Folchurch,  Vulchurch  in,  344. 

Washford  Pyno,Waysford,  co.  Devon, 

fee  in,  523. 
Weishington,  Wassyngton,  co.  Sussex, 

419. 
Waskliain,  Jolin,  escheator  in  Devon, 

367,  393,  413. 
Wasshebrouk.     See  Washbrook. 
Wassyngton.    See  Washington. 
Wastine,  Testard  de  la,  300. 
watchmen,  485. 
Water,  Richard  atte,  318. 

,  ....  be  the,  clerk,  53G. 

,  William  atte,  573. 

, clerk,  466. 

Waterden,  Richard  de,  340. 

, of  Norfolk,  422. 

Water  Eaton,  Watereton  [co.  Wilts], 

429. 
Waterford    and    Lismore,    Ireland, 

bishop  of.    See  Reve,  Thomas 

le. 
Wateringbury,    Woteryngbury    [co. 

Kent],  farmer  of  manor  of,  54. 
Waterman,  Richard,   196. 
Waterville,  John,  283. 
Watford,  co.  Hertford,  293,  294. 
,  . .  .  . ,  Cassio,   Caysho,    Kai- 

sho,  Kaysho  in,  315. 
,  CO.    Northampton,    lord   of. 

See  Isbury,  John. 
Watford,  Henry,  542. 

,  Simon,  545,  546. 

Cf.  Wattesford. 

Wath,  Wath  in  Rydale  [in  Hoving- 

ham],    CO.    York,    manor    of, 

528. 
Wathenden,  Thomas,  410. 
Watkenes,  Henry,  566. 
Watlyngton,  John  de,  323. 
Wattes,  John,  merchant  of  Bristol, 

30. 

C/.  Watyes. 

Wattesford,  Henry,  Henry  de,  196, 

551. 

Cf.  Watford. 

Watton  [CO.-  York],  prior  of,  262. 
Watton,  Thomas  de,  193. 
Watyes,  John,  596. 

ReATiold,   596. 

C/.  Wattes. 

Wauberge.  *See  Waybridge. 
Wauton,  Andrew  de,  90,  93. 
,  John,  John  de,  71. 


Wauton,  Jolm — cont. 

knight  of  the  shire  of 

Huntingdon,  101,  476,  612. 

,  William  de,  knight,  99,  294, 

562. 

Cf.  Walton. 

Wavendon,  Wavyndon,  co.  Bucking- 
ham, advovvson  of,  48. 

manor  of,  48. 

Wavere,  Robert  de,  coroner  of  co. 
Warwick,  501. 

,  William  de,  52. 

Waverley,     W^averle     [co.     Surrey], 
abbot  of,  309. 

Wavyndon.     See  Wavendon. 

Wawlie,  Nicholas,  65. 

Wawn,  CO.  York,  Meux,  Melsa  abbey 
in,  510. 

Waybridge,    Wauberge    forest    [co. 
Himtingdon],  461. 

wayf  and  stray,  164. 

Wayne,  Walter,  343. 

Waynflete.     See  Wainfleet. 

Waynhope.     See  Wainhope. 

Waysford.     See  Washford. 

Wayte,  Gerard  le,  544. 

,  Robert,  of  Horsford,  345. 

Wealdgullet,  the  Golet  [in  North- 
weald  Basset],  CO.  Essex,  562. 

Weare,  co.  Somerset,  Alston,  Alles- 
ton  in,  288. 

Webbe,  Nicholas,  429. 

,  WiUiam,  343. 

Webber,  John,  farmer  of  subsidy, 
317. 

,  Thomas,  of  Devonshire,  317. 

Webstere,  Nicholas,  of  Great  Billing, 
87. 

Weche,  Wacche,  Wecche,  Jolm,  590. 

,     .  .  .  . ,    farmer     of     Purton 

manor,  145. 

, ,  of  Wiltshire,  469. 

,  . . . . ,  steward  of  Isleworth, 

64. 

Cf.  Queche. 

Wederhale.     See  Wetheral. 

Week  St.  Mary,  Seintemariewik, 
Seintemariewyk,  co.  Corn- 
wall, advowson  of,  91,  93. 

,  manor  of,  91,  93. 

,  Swannacott,    Swancote    in, 

91,  93. 

Weelsby,  Wevelesby  [in  Clee],  cc. 
Lincoln,  manor  of,   510. 

Wegenholte,  Geoffrey  de,  81. 

Weiesford.      See   Wexford. 

Weighton,  Market,  Wyghton  [co. 
York],  296. 

weirs,  removal  of,  11. 

Welborne.     See  Wolbourne. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


809 


Wclboiirn,  Wclboume  [co.  Lincoln], 

200. 
Welboiirne,     Welborno,     Jolin     de, 

canon  of  Lincoln,  545. 
\,  .....    citizen    of    Norwich, 

222. 
Welby,  Welleby,  John,  John  de,  92, 

458. 

of  Ropsley.  248. 

Welconuncstowo.      See    ^^'althanl- 

stow. 
Welde,  John  atte,  de,  escheator  in 

E?.sex,    128,    151,    232,    245, 

253,  263,  348,  388,  527. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Hertfordshire, 

128,   151,  243,  253. 

,  William.  322. 

Weldon  [co.  Northampton],  Basset 

of,  547. 
Welford,  co.  Northampton,  182,  183, 

184,  185. 
Welford,  Roger  de,  clerk,  of  North- 
amptonshire, 578. 
,  pai-son  of  Charwelton, 

596. 
Welham  [co.  Leicester],  239. 
Welham,  Hervey  de,  569. 
,  . . . . ,    parson   of    Stockton, 

564,  565. 
Welhowe.     See  Wellow. 
Wellandwell.     See  Walling\vells. 
Wellbiirv,  AVelles  in  Offley.  Offcleye, 

CO.  Hertford,  272. 
Welle,  Jolm  atte,  1,  570,  578. 

,  ....  de,  knight,  551. 

son  of  Jolrn  de,  500. 

IMaud  mother  of  Jolm  de, 

551. 

,  Simon  atte,  of  Abington,  87. 

,  Thomas  brother  of  William 

atte.    13. 
,  William  atte,   of   Somerset, 

423. 
WeUeby.     See  Welby. 
WeUes.     See  ^VeUbiu-y,  Wells. 
Wellingborougli,    Wendelburgh    [co. 

Northampton],   69. 
Wellington's,  Well  jTigtones  m  Ekets- 

hall  [co.   Suffolk],  manor  of, 

569. 
Wellow,     Welhowe,     WeDowe     by 

GrjTiiesby  [co.  Lincoln],  abbot 

and  convent  of,  286,  510. 
Wells,  Welles,  co.  Somerset,  bishop 

of.    See  Bath  and  Wells. 
,  citizen    of,    in    parliament, 

298. 
,  dean      of.        See      Pempel, 

Stephen. 
Wellyngtones.     See  Welliugtoa's. 


Wolsho.     Sec  Waleys. 

Wolton,    VV'elton     by    Lincoln,    co. 

Lincoln,  bailiffs  of  chapter  of 

Lincoln  at,  13. 
Welton,  Jolm  de,  596. 
Welwyk.    Steplum    de,    coroner    of 

Hants,  236. 
Welwj'u,     CO.     Hertford,     Mardley, 

Mardelebiu-y  in,  396,  469. 
Wem,  Wemme,  co.  Salop,  61,  507. 

,  Cotton,  Cotoun  in,  356. 

Wemmo,  Roger,   117. 
Wompton,  John  de,  66. 
Wendelburgh.     See  Wellingborough. 
Wendelburgh,    Wenlj-ngbui-gh,    Gil- 
bert de,  69. 

,  John  de,  596. 

,  .  .  .  .,  the  elder,  clerk,   192. 

Wenden,  Little  [in  \N'endens  Ambo, 

CO.  Essex],  deed  dated  at,  572. 
Wendout,  Christiana  wife  of  Jolm,  4. 
Wendover,  Wendovere,  co.  Bucking- 
ham, 75. 

,  manor  of,   322. 

Wendover,  John,  187. 
Wenel,  WUliam,  343. 
Wengham.    See  Wingham. 
Wenhaston,   Wanhaston,   Whanlias- 

ton,  CO.  Suffolk,  565,  569. 

,  manor  of,  565. 

,  3[eUs  in,  565. 

Wenl5^lgburgh.     See  Wendelburgh. 
Wentbrigge,  John  de,  317,  318. 
Were,  Walter  atte,  of  Fleet  Street, 

cordwainer,  538. 
Werehale,  Jolm,  323. 
Weremoustix).    See  Wanninster. 
Werf,  Hugh,  burgess  of    Totnes  in 

parliament,  298. 
Werfton.    See  Worfton. 
Wergs,   the,   Witheges    [in    Tetten- 

hall,  CO.  Stafford],  356. 
Werk.    See  Wark. 
Werk,  Nicholas  de,  13. 
Werkeman,  Henry,  biu"gess  of  Lewes 

in  parliament,  297. 
Wermenstre.     See  Warminster. 
Wermoise,  kerchiefs  of,  325,  329. 
Wermyngton,  Jolm  de,  10. 
West,  Jolm,  of  Ayot  St.  Lawrence, 

596. 

,  Peter,  327,  486. 

Thomas,  knight,  542. 

,  .  . .  . ,  of  Chisenbury,   40. 

Westafford.     See  Stafford.  West. 
Westbechesworth.     See  Betchworth. 
West  broke,  Henry  de,  clerk,  431. 
Westbiu-v.    CO.    Buckingham,     602, 

603. 
manor  of,  602-604. 


810 


GENERAL    IXDEX. 


VV'ost  bury — cont. 

[in  Wost  Meon],  co.  Hants, 

manor  of,  513. 

,  CO.  Wilts,  hundred  of,  601. 

on    Severn,    by    Nowenhain 

[co.  Gloucester],  89. 

,  advowson  of,  89. 

deed  dated  at,  89. 

Westbury.  John,  601. 

Richard  de,  mercliant,  153, 

154. 

We.stby,  John,  niercliant,  121. 

Westcapel.     See  West  Kapellen. 

Westchaulo.     See  Cliallovv. 

Westcotoni.     See  Coatliain. 

Westdene.     See  Dean. 

Westelegh,  Peter,  343. 

Westerkele.    See  Keal,  West. 

Westewyk.     See  Westwick. 

Westgrafton.     See  Grafton. 

Westhaddon.    See  Haddon. 

West  Ham,  Westliam,  Westliamme. 
See  Ham. 

Westhoo.    See  Westoe. 

West-Kapellen,  Westcapel  in  Seland 
[Zeeland],  ship  of,  27. 

Westlexham.     See  I^exliam. 

Westloccombe.  See  Stockleigh  Luc- 
combe. 

Westmaneswj'ke,  Alan  de,  356. 

Westmerland,  Ellen  de,  571. 

Westmersh  in  Great  and  Little 
Kimble  and  EUesborough,  co. 
Buckingham,  602. 

Westminster,  120,  216,  340,  446,  452, 
502,  591. 

abbey,  abbot  of,  193. 

,  Nicholas  abbot  of,  193. 

,  chancery    at,    66,    94,    182, 

296,  446,  453,  455,  458,  461, 
465,  472,  581,  588,  593,  598, 

,  .  .  .  . ,  court  of,  in  great  hall 

of,  287. 

,  Charing,  Charrjoig  in,  deed 

dated  at,  427. 

,  .  .  .  .,  street  of,  427. 

,  council  at,  58,  109,  263,  328, 

364. 

,  deeds      acknowledged      at, 

73,  79,  81,  114,  173,  182,  187, 
291,  292,  296,  332,  335,  427, 
448,  453,  455,  458,  461,  465, 
472,  532,  551,  564,  566,  568, 
569,  573,  581,  588,  593,  598. 

,  deeds  etc.  dated  at,  70,  77, 

80,  81,  84,  90,  93,  96,  98,  99, 
100,  108,  172,  195,  280,  284, 
285,  293,  317,  343,  347,  430, 
431,  435,  437,  440,  441,  443, 
448,  450,  470,  471,  532,  533, 


Westminster,  deeds  etc.  dated  at — 
cont. 

537,  538,  556,  557,  558,  563, 

576,   597,   601. 

,  fine  levied  at,  507,  602. 

great  hall  of,  287,  445. 

,  justices   at,    171,    176,    278, 

282,  326,  420,  425,  527,  532, 

539,  540,  545,  546,  584,  605, 

610. 

letters  close  dated  at,  passim. 

,  lodging  of  the  earl  of  Kent 

in,  215,  '398. 
palace,  deeds  etc.  dated  at, 

75,  424. 
,  letters  close  dated  at, 

207,  250. 

,  Oule  Chamber  in,  420. 

St.   Stephen's   chapel 

within,  canon  of.    See  Chester- 

feld,  Adam  de. 
,  dean  and  canons 

of,  215,  398. 
parliament  at,  9,  10,  83,  93, 

100,  101,  178,  203,  204,  241, 

288,  297,  314,  317,  320,  377, 
462,  463,  464,  475-477,  482, 
527,  586,   608,  609,  611-613. 

,  sanctuary  at,  223,  228. 

,  staple  of,  170,  173,  389,  398, 

497. 
,  .  .  .  . ,      mayor      of.         See 

Fraunceys,  Adam ;  Horewode, 

Fulk  ;  Walworth,  William. 
,  statutes  published  at,  6,  278, 

325,  606,  611. 
,  the  king's  chamber  at,  near 

the  Thames,  287. 

, garden  at,  215,  398. 

, stables  at,  215,  398. 

,  ....  Star  chamber  at,  445. 

,  the  small  hall  towards  the 

king's  water  mill  at,  321. 

,  the  treasury  at,  28. 

,  Eye  in,  318. 

Westmoreland,  coimty  of,  69,  283. 

arrays  in,  361,  382. 

coroners  of,    162,  233,  236, 

410. 
,  escheators  in.     See  Ergum, 

William  ;    Musgrave,  Thomas 

de. 

,  issues  of,  178. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  100, 

289,  299,  316,  476,  612. 
,  lord  of.    See  Clifford,  Roger 

de. 
,  sheriff  of,  162,  178,  233,  236, 

262,  299,  362,  410,  476. 
subsidy  in,  172,  537. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


811 


Westmoreland — cont. 

uucler  sheriff  of.    See  Pyker- 

yiigge,  James  do. 

Westoe,  WiiStJioo  by  Cain])es  [in 
Castle  Camps],  co.  Cambridge, 
fee  in,  493. 

Weston,  CO.  Hertford,  lady  of.  See 
Mareschal,    Margaret. 

,  manor  of,  376. 

,  Colly,  Weston,  co.  North- 
ampton, 12,  24. 

Colville  [co.  Cambridge],  89. 

,  Moynes,  lo  Moigries  in, 

49. 

sub  Edge,  Weston  [co.  Glou- 
cester], 612. 

Tiu-ville,  Turvile  [co.  Buck- 

ingliam],  75. 

,  advowson  of,  60. 

,  manor  of,  60. 

imderWeatherly,  Weston  [co. 

Warwick],  79. 

Underwood,     Westone     [co. 

Buckingham],  332. 

Weston,  Agnes  wife  of  Nicholas  de, 
534. 

John  de,  80,  564. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  escheator  in  Norfolk, 

504,  506. 

,  ....,    ....   in  Suffolk,  493, 

494,  504. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the  yoimger,  collector 

of  subsidy,  527. 

,  Lambert  de,  74. 

,  Philip  de,  parson  of  Grendon, 

66. 

,  Richard,  Ricliard  do,  323. 

William,  William  de,  483. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  master  of  St.  Leonard, 

Bedford,  377. 

Westoning,  Westonnyng,  co.  Bed- 
ford, manor  of,  588. 

Westpecham.     See  Pecldiam. 

Westrasen.    See  Rasen. 

Westhorrok.     See  ThiuTock. 

Westurdale,  Nicholas,  439. 

Westwick,  Westewj-k  in  K\'Tigebiu'y, 
Westwyk  [in  St.  Michael's], 
CO.  Hertford,  manor  of,  272. 

Westwj-^k  [co.  York],  174. 

WestMTotham.     See  Wrethana. 

Westwycombe,  Jolm,  of  Herts,  281. 

Westwyk.     See  Westwick. 

West%vyk,  Hugh  de,  clerk,  87,  563. 

Westw^^kliam.     See  Wickliam. 

Westwythj^huJl.     See  Widliill. 

Westwyttenliam.     See  Wittenham. 

Wetheral,  Wederliale,  co.  Cumber- 
land, monks  of  Holy  Trinity 
and  St.  Constantine,  5. 


Wethei'al — cont. 

prior  of,  4,  5. 

,  Simon  prior  of,  4,  5. 

Wetherden  [(!0.  Suffolk],  576,  582. 
Wetheresf(  Id,    Jolm  d'-,  clerk  of  the 

justices  of  ojer  and  terminer 

in  Cambridgc'sliire,  47. 
Wetherfeld,  Ricliard,  607. 
Wothersfield,  \Vetherisfeld,  co.  Essex, 

572. 
Wettenlndle.  James  de,  clerk,  319. 

Cf.  Woteidmlle. 

Wevelesby.     See  Weelsby. 

Wexcombe,  Jolm,  451. 

Wexford,  Weiesford  [Ireland],  lord 

of.     See  Hastynges,  John. 
Wexliam    [co.    Bxxckingham],    d(>Gd 

dated  at,  549. 
Wexliam,  John  de,  549. 
Weye,  John  de,  369. 

,  Robert,  100. 

Weyhill,      co.      Hants,      Ramridge, 

Ramenrugge,  Ramerugge  in, 

556,  558. 
Weymouth,  WejTnuth  [co.  Dorset], 

baiUftsof,  32,  115,  264. 
,  keepers  of  passage  in  port  of, 

449. 
Weyvile,  John,  174. 
\Miadden,  Nicholas  de,  chaplain,  49, 

50. 
Whaddon  (Farm),  Waddon  [in  Ment- 

more,  co.  Buckingham],  447, 

448. 
Wniale,  Louthre  Quale  [in  Lowther], 

CO.  Westmoreland,  146. 
Whalley,   co.   Lancaster,   Downham 

in,  169. 
\A%anhaston.     See  Wenhaston. 
Whappelade,  Quappelade,  \\niappe- 

lode,    William,     William    de, 

336,  488,  607. 
WHiarfe,     Querf,    river,     co.     York, 

justices  to  observe  and  keep, 

163. 
Wliateman,    Joan    (de    Bekenesfeld) 

wife  of  Thomas,  427. 

,  John  son  of  Thomas,  427. 

Whatfield,    Whatfeld,    co.    Suffolk, 

manor  of,  663. 
Wliatmode,  Walter,  602. 
Whatton,    Richard    de,    parson    of 

Widmerpool,  2. 

,  Thomas,  87. 

wheat,  11.  33,  53,  257,  280,  380,  513, 

516,  552,  569,  574. 

floiu-,  27. 

,  old,  516. 

Wheatacre,   Whetacre,   co.   Norfolk, 

manor  of,  379. 


812 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


WliuatJiuinjwtead,      Wliothamstodo,     ' 

CO.  Hertford,  589,  GIO. 
Wliolere,  John,  548. 

,  William,  546. 

WJiebietJiain,  Great,  co.  Suffolk,  ad- 
vowson  of,  471. 

,  .  .  .  .,  manor  of,  471,  472. 

,  Little,  CO.  Suffolk,  471. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  46. 

Wlielnetliani,     Amice     (Deschalers) 

daughter  of  John  de,  knight, 
471. 

,  John  de,  knight,  471. 

,  Margery  (do  Sutton)  daugh- 
ter of  John  de,  kiaight,  471, 

472. 
,  Mary  (de  Bures)  daughter  of 

Jolin  de,  kniglit,  471. 
Wlielpeston,  Thomas  do,  verderer  of 

tlie  forest  of  Essex,  23. 
Wlierwelldown,    Wherueldoune,    co. 

Wilts,  Inmdred  of,  601. 
Wlietacre.     See  Wlieatacre. 
Whethamstede.      See    Wheatliamp- 

stead. 
Whettelay,  Jolin  de,  97. 

.  . ,  William  de,  97. 

Wliichewode.     See  Wychwood. 
Wliickliam,  Quykliam  [co.  Durham], 

parson      of.        See      Rotour, 

Ricliard. 
Whinbergh,  Wynbergh,  co.  Norfolk, 

manor  of,  570. 
Whippingham,  Uppyngham,  Isle  of 

Wight,  church  of,  153. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  parson  of.    See  Burton 

in  Wliippingham,  prior  of. 
Wliissele,  Wysshele,  Jolm,  102,  309. 
■V^liissendine,  Wyssendene,  co.  Rut- 
land, manor  of,  19. 
Whitacre,  Tliomas  de,  69. 
Wliitby,  Wliiteby  [co.  York],  bailiffs 

of,  482. 
Wliitchurch  [co.  Salop],  le  Strange  of 

Blackmere  in,  204.  j 
White,  Whyte,  Peter,  clerk,  537.  I 
,....,     . .  . . ,    of    Somerset,     i 

172. 
,  . . . . ,  parson  of  Buckland  St. 

Mary,  255. 

,  Tliomas,  602.  ^ 

Whitebarne,  Ralph,  of  New  Sleeford, 

534.  I 
Whiteby.    See  Whitby.  ' 
Wliiteby,  Alan  de,  clerk,  583. 
,  John  de,  canon  of  Sempring- 

ham,  228. 
Whitechapel.      See    London,    places     i 

named.  [ 

Wliitehalparko.     See  Withcall  ?  i 


Wliiteman,  William  of  London, 
webbo,  548. 

Cf.  WygJitman. 

Wliitomero,  John  de,  356. 

Whitomore.     See  Wliitmore. 

Whiten.     See  Whitton. 

White  Notley,  Nottele.     See  Notley. 

W^hiteparish  [co.  Wilts],  Abbotstone, 
Abboteston,  and  Moregrovu  in 
tlie  Moor  in,  196. 

WHiitestaplo.     See  Whitstable. 

Wliitestone,  Wliiteston  [hmidred,  co. 
Somer.set],  coroner  for  parts 
of,  57. 

Whitesyde,  Richard,  of  Drayton,  224. 

Wliitowelle,  Witewell,  Cicely  daugh- 
ter of  Simon  do,  255. 

,  Katlierine  mother  of  Simon 

de,  255. 

,  Simon  de,  255. 

,  Stephen  de,  parson  of  Harp- 
swell,  536. 

,  William  father  of  Simon  de, 

255. 

Wliitgift,  CO.  York,  manor  of,  394. 

Wliithed,  Adam.  356. 

Whithors,  Walter,  335. 

Wliitlawe,  Jolin  de,  citizen  of  Carlisle 
in  parliament,  299. 

Cf.  Wythlawe. 

"V^^utmore,  Whitemore  [by  Coventry], 
CO.  Warwick,  manor  of,  26. 

Whitnash,  Wittenassh,  Wyttenassh, 
CO.  Warwick,  miU  in,  24. 

places  named  in,  23. 

\\TiitstabIe,  WHiitestaple,  co.  Kent, 
manor  of,  271. 

Wliitteney,  Robert  de,  knight,  of 
Herefordshire,  104. 

Whittingham,  co.  Northmnberland, 
CaUaley,  Calule  in,  87. 

Wliittmgton,  \\liityngton,  co.  Lan- 
caster, 54. 

,  Wlij-tyngton     [co.     Salop], 

Fitz  Waryn  of,  135. 

,  Great,     Great     Whityngton 

[in  Corbridge],  co.  Northum- 
berland, manor  of,  515,  521. 

Whittlebm'y,  WittUbury,  co.  North- 
ampton, 47. 

Wliittlesey,Wytlesseye,  John  de,  599. 

,     William,      archbishop     of 

Canterbury,  38,  83,  111,  165, 
203,  251,  286,  373,  391,  460, 
462,  463,  470,  505,  563,  578, 
586,  587. 

,  . . . . ,  bishop  of  Worcester, 

391,  569. 
Whittlesford,  Wycheford  [co.  Cam- 
bridge], advowson  of,  123. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


813 


Wluttlosfiird — cont: 

iuuulrecl[co.  Cambridgel,  504. 

Whittokesmedc,  John,  citizen  of 
BatJi  in  parliament,  298. 

Wliitton,  WTiiten,  co.  Lincoln,  manor 
of,  503. 

Wliitwj-k,  Nicholas  de,  350 

Whityngton.     See  Wiittington. 

Wliitj-ngton,   Joan  de,  49!),  547. 

Whyssh,  Henry,  of  Sussex.  78. 

Whyto.     See  White. 

Whyt^aigton.     See  Wliittington. 

Wiche.     See  Droitwich. 

Wichyngham,  Wychingham,  Wych- 
%-ngham.  Nicholas  de,  509. 

]  Richer   de.    509. 

,  William    de.    04,    179,    295, 

333,  551,  500,  509,  598. 

, justice  of  the  Common 

Bench,  59. 

,  .....  knight,  509. 

Wick,  Wyke  [in  Yatton,  co.  Somer- 
set], 95. 

Wickliam  Bishops,  Wikliam,  Wyk- 
ham,  CO.  Essex,  340. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  parson  of.    Sec  Burton, 

Robert  de. 

,  CJiilds,  Wykwan,  co.  Glou- 
cester, manor  of.  124. 

,  East,  [CO.  Kent]  ?  Wvkliam. 

552,  500: 
Market,  Wycham,  co.   Suf- 
folk, Gtelham  in,  500. 

,  West,    Wikeham,    Wikliam, 

Wykliam,  co.  Cambridge,  85. 

,  . .  .  . ,  .....  fees  in,  493. 

,   ....,      Westwykham,      co. 

Kent,  manor  of,  509. 

Wicklesome,  WykjTigesliam  [in 
Faringdon],  co.  Berks,  manor 
of,  108. 

Wideville,  ^^'ydevi]le,  Richard, 
Richard  de,  escheator  in 
Northamptonshire,  12,  19, 
24,  47,  48,  53,  50,  127,  130, 
157,  100,  207. 

, in  Rutland,  2,  12, 

19,  127. 

,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Northampton.  Oil. 

Widhill.  Lower,  Westw\'tliyhull  [in 
Bhmsdon,  co.  Wilts],  344. 

Widmerpool,  Wydemerpole,  co. 
Nottingham,  parson  of.  See 
Whatton,  Richard  de. 

Wigan,  Wygan,  co.  Lancaster,  453. 
Dalton  in,  54. 

Wigborough,  Wigcbergh,  Great  Wy- 
gebergh,  co.  Essex,  94. 

,  manor  of,  9. 


Wiggetoft.     See  AVigtoft. 
Wigginthorpe.       AN'ygjTitliorp       [in 

Tcrrington],  co.  York,  528. 
Wighfeld,    William   do,    coroner   for 

Gloucestershire,  170. 
Wighill,  Wyghalo,  co.  York,  manor 

of,   90. 

,  Espdik(s   Esdik  in,    90. 

Wight,  Wyght,  Isle  of,  100. 

arrays  in,  151,  270,  278. 

defence  of.  270,  527. 

,  farm  of  subsidy  in.  537. 

keeper    of.      See    Ferrariis, 

Ralph  de. 
,  keepers,  steward  and  bailiffs 

of,  270. 
Wighthull,  Robert.  491. 
Wightwick.  Withwilk  [in  Tettenliall, 

CO.  Stafford],  350. 
Wigtoft.  Wiggetoft  in  Holand,  Wyg- 

toft,  CO.  Lincoln,  507,  508,  571. 

,   .  .  .  .,  manor  of,  49. 

Wigton,    CO.    Cumberland.    Blaitli- 

waite,  Blakthwavt  in.  124. 
,  Kirkthwaite,  Kirkthwaj-t  in, 

28. 
Wikeham,  Wikliam.     See  Wickliam. 
Wilbegh,  William  de,  422. 
Wilbraham,    Wilberham    [co.    Cam- 
bridge]. 530. 

,  Little,  CO.  Cambridge,  493. 

Wilchard,  Jolm,  349. 

,  Lucy,    349. 

Wilcok,  Robert,  500. 

Wilde,   Wylde,     Gossuin  le,  knight, 

300. 

John,  clerk,  585,  580. 

Wilderhope  [in  Rushbury],  co.  Salop, 

fee  in,  274. 
WUford,  Robert  de,  220. 

Cf.  Willisford. 

Wilhampstede.    See  Willshampstead. 
WiJie,    John   de,  parson  of  A\'alton 

upon  Thames,  510. 
WilkjTi,  Adam,  of  Neuton,  599. 
WilkjTison,  Hugh,  of  Chorlcy,  355. 
Wille,  Sara,  349: 
Willes.  Thomas,  350. 
Willesham,  Roger  de,  knight  of  the 

shire  of  Norfolk,  289. 
William  earl  of  Gloucester  and  lord 

of  Bristol,  117. 
William,  Thomas  son  of,  de  Carleton. 

of  Carlton,   190. 
William  son  of,  de  Radeclif, 

154.  194. 

See  Fit z  William. 

Williamescote.     Margaret     ■wife     of 

Thomas  de,  381,  382. 
,  Thomas  de,  382. 


814 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Willianiscott,  Williaiaescoto  [in  Cro- 

predy],  co.  Oxford,  manor  of, 

381. 
Willingale    Spain,    Wylynghale,    co. 

Essex,  fee  in,  492. 
Willingliain,  Wyllyngliani,  parson  of. 

See  Sustede,   Jiobert  do. 
Willisford,  Richard  de,  of  Welbourn, 

20U. 

Cf.  Wilford. 

Willoughby  [by  Alford],  Wylugliby, 

CO.  Lincoln,  379. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  379. 

,  parsons  of.     See  Frys- 

ktmay,     Thomas     de  ;     Mal- 

boys,  Henry. 
,  North,    Willughby   [in    Silk 

WiIlo\ighby,  co.  Lincoln],  307. 

, ,  deed  dated  at,  307. 

Silk,  [co.  Lincoln],  Willough- 
by and  Silkby  in,  307. 
Willshampstead,  Wilhampstede  [co. 

Bedford],  vicar  of.     See  Mil- 
broke,  John. 
Willughby.     See  Willoughby. 
Willughby,     Wilughby,     Wylughby, 

Elizabeth  wife  of  Richard  de, 

397. 

John  de,  knight,  379. 

Margery  wife  of  Robert  de, 

379,  380. 

Maud  wife  of  Richard  de,  49. 

Richard  de,  49. 

,  the  elder,  49. 

.  .  .  . ,  knight,  50. 

Robert   de,    knight,   son   of 

John  de,  379,  380. 

,  William  son  of  John  de,  379. 

Wilmington,  Wilmyngton  [co.  Kent], 

344. 
,  Rowehill,  Raughulle,  Roug- 

hulle  in,  536. 
Wilmyn,  John,  the  younger,  150. 
Wilmyngton.    See  Wilmington. 
Wilnecote,  Wylmendecote,  co.  War- 
wick, 146. 
Wilsford  (by  Pewsey),  Wyvelesford, 

CO.  Wilts,  manor  of,  496. 
,  Manningford    Bohim,    Man- 

;yngford  in,  496. 
Wilteshire,  Wiltesshire,  Joan  wife  of 

John,  573. 
,  John,  popperer  of  London, 

573. 
Thomas,    Thomas   de,    309. 

338. 
Wiltesir.     See  Wilts. 
Wiltesshire.    See  Wilteshire. 
Wilting,    WyltjTige    [in   Hollington, 

CO.  Sussex],  manor  of,  593. 


Wilton,  Wilton  Wee,  Wilton  upon 
Wye,  Woo  [co.  Hereford], 
Grey  of,  150,  151,  163,  168, 
223. 

Wj'lton,  CO.  Norfolk,  manor 

of,  21. 

CO.  Wilts,  344,  421. 

[in  Kirk  Leatham],  co.  York, 

139. 
Wilton,    Wylton,    John   de,   knight, 

564,   570. 
, parson  of  St.  Thomas, 

Salisbury,  controller  of  works 

at  Clarendon,  39. 
Wilts,  coimty  of,  Wiltesir,  78,  548, 

559,  581,  590. 

coroners  of,  413. 

escheators  in.      See  Aimsel, 

William  ;  Evesham,  John  do  ; 

Froille,  John. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  100, 

289,  297,  316,  476,  611. 
,  sheriff  of,   18,  40,   171,  203, 

209,  218,  297,  413,  476.     See 

also  Haywode,  Walter  de. 

,  taxation  in,  317. 

Wilughby.     See  Willughby. 
Wilymot,  Wylmot,  Adam,  355. 

,  Peter,  313. 

Wilj-ngton,  John  de,  224. 
Wiinbish,    W^Tnbissh    [co.    Essex], 

parson  of.     See  Lambourne, 

Robert. 
,  Thunderley,    Thunderle    in, 

492. 
Wimpole,  Wympole,  co.  Cambridge, 

604. 
Winchelsea,  Wynchelse  [co.  Sussex], 

299. 
,  baUiffs    of,    115,    188,    201, 

483. 
,  keejjers  of  passage  in  port  of, 

449. 

,  mayor  of,  115,  188,  483. 

Winchester,  Wj-ncestre  [co.  Hants], 

97,   283,  284,   302,   371,   570, 

581. 
,  bailiffs  of,   19,  29,   88,   115, 

483,  581. 
,  bishop   of.     See  Edyngton, 

W^illiam  de  ;    Orleton,  Adam 

de  ;    Wj^keham,  William  de. 

,  bishopric  of,  134,  145. 

castle,  constable  of,  323. 

,  chapel  of  St.  Elizabeth  by, 

provost     of.       See    Shupton, 

John  de. 

,  citizens  of,  581. 

,    ....,    in    parliament,    297, 

317. 


GENERAL    IXDEX. 


815 


Wiucliestor — cont. 

,  deeds  acknowledged  at,  330, 

333,  551. 

,  dated  at,  333,  593. 

diocese  of,  251i 

earl     of.       See     Despenser, 

Hugh  le. 

enclosure  of,  88. 

,  goldsmith  of,  371. 

great  coiuicil  at,   314,   316, 

317. 

,  honour  of,  140,  351. 

letters  close  dated  at,   229, 

230,  233,  23G-239,  307,   308, 
315,  316. 

,  mayor  of,    19,   29,   88,    115, 

483,     581.      See    also    Vrye, 
Ricliard  lo. 

members  of  i)arliament  and 

council  at,  297,  299. 

,  merchants  of,  593. 

,  St.    Swithin,    St.    Swytliin, 

prior  and  convent  of,  175. 

,  staple  of,  1 70. 

,  statute  of,  436. 

,  subiu-b  of,  70. 

Windowes  in  Sandliill,  Wj-ndasplace 
in  Newcastle-upon-TjTie  [co. 
Northumberland],  343. 
windows,  glazed,  381. 
Windsor,  WjTidesore  [co,  Berks], 
castle  of,  clerk  of  works  at. 
See  Hertj'ngdon,  Adam. 

,     .  .  .  . ,    constable    of, 

322,  323,  324.    See  also  Leget, 
Helmyng. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  prison  in,  322. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  forest    of,   keeper   of. 

See  Leget,  Helmjnag. 

, letters  close  dated  at, 

18,  309. 

WjTidesore    [in    Eling],    co. 

Hants,  manor  of,  542,  543. 
wine,  51,  167,  169,  170,  245,  257,  258, 
263,  368,  369,  414,  488,  496, 
497,  577,  588. 

,  custom  on,  263,  275,  380. 

for  the  coimcil,  364. 

p:auging  of.  25,  26,  278,  606, 

607. 

of  Gascon}',  513,  516. 

of  Oseye.  516. 

of  the  fifth  foil,  513. 

> of  the  first  foil,  513. 

,  red.  278,  364.  444,  513,  516, 

528,  607. 

,  Rhenish,  258. 

,  .sale  of,  201,  278,  444,  606, 

607. 
,  white,  278,  444,  607. 


See      lieade, 
[co.    Devon], 


Wing,  CO.  Buckingliam,  Crafton, 
Crofton  in,  447,  448. 

Wingfield,  North,  co.  Derby,  Stretton, 
Little  Stretton  in.  509. 

Wingliam,     WengJiam     [co.     Kent], 
provost      of. 
VV'illiam. 

Winkleigh,    Wyiikelo 
manor  of,  223. 

Winnal,  Wynlialo,  co.  Hants,  70. 

Winterborn<^       Kingston,      Wynter 
bourne   Kyngeston,   co.   Dor- 
set, manor  of,  255. 

Winter  boiu-ne ,  Wynter  burnema  jm , 
CO.  Berks,  deeds  dated  at,  597. 

,  manor  of,  597. 

,  Wynterbourne     by     Bristol 

[co.  Gloucester],  warden  of 
cliantry  of.  See  WJ^^chestre, 
Jolm  de. 

Wintringliam,  co.  York,  Ivnapton  in, 
112. 

Winwick,  co.  Lancaster,  Golborne, 
Goldesburn,  and  other  places 
in,  500. 

Wiot,  Henry,  343. 

Wipellewille  [near  Great  Torring- 
ton  ?],  CO.  Devon,  342. 

Wirmegeje.     See  Wormegay. 

Wisbeacli,  Wisebech,  Wysebech  [co. 
Cambridge].  376. 

hundred     [co.     Cambridge], 

504. 

Wishford,  Wyclieford  [co.  Wilts],  511. 

Wispington,  Wisp^^lgton,  co.  Lin- 
coln, 379. 

Witchingham  St.  Mary,  WychjTig- 
ham.  Wychj-ngham  St.  Mary 
[co.  Norfolk],  deeds  acknow- 
ledged at,   569,   598. 

,  deed  dated  at,  569. 

Witegote.     See  Wittegode. 

\Vitewell.    See  Whitewell. 

With',  Geoffrey,  kniglit,  550. 

Witham,  Wj-tteham,  co.  Essex,  346, 

,  South,     Soutliwythom     [co. 

Lincoln],  manor  of,  458. 

Withcall  ?  \Miitehalparke,  co.  Lin- 
coln, manor  of.   379. 

Withegenemulle,  Wj-thegenemulle, 
Wvthegennulle,  John,  441, 
562,  602. 

Witheges.     See  Wergs. 

Witlieges,  Nicholas  de,  356. 

Witlierdele.     Sec  ^Vithe^ley. 

Witheridge,  co.  Devon,  East  Dart, 
Estderto  and  other  places 
named  in,  523. 

Witherlej',  Witherdele,  co.  Leicester, 
manor  of,  374. 


81G 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Withorsfirkl,     Wytherofild,     \Vjt)i- 
erosfold,  co.  Suffolk,  manor  of, 
182,  183,  184,  185. 
Witliwilk.     See  W'iglitwick. 
Withyliain,       Wytliyhaiiime       [co. 

SiLssox],  9G. 
Withynton,  Wytliynton,  Roger  de, 
canon  of  Hertford,  318,  319. 
Witlebury,  WitUssbery,  Witle.sbiuy, 
Wittdbiiry,  Joan  wife  of 
Aubrey  do,  19. 

John  de.  19,  73,  446. 

,   .  .  .  .,  knight,  19. 

Witnesham,    Wytneshani,    co.    Suf- 
folk, manor  of,  46. 
Wittegode,  Wit(!gote,  Jolui,  51. 

,   .  .  .  .,   of   Southampton,   50. 

Wittelbitfy.     See  Witlebury. 
Wittenasshe.     See  Whitnasli. 
Wittenham,  Long,  Westwyttenham, 
CO.  Berks,  manor  of  le  Doune- 
coiu-t  in,  99. 
Wittersham,    Wyghtreshanime,    co. 
Kent,  312,  313,  314. 

,  church  of,  313. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  313,  314. 

,  manor  of,   313. 

marsh,  313. 

,  places  named  in,  313. 

Wittilbury.      See    Whittlebury. 
Wivenhoe,    Wyvenho    [co.    Essex], 

471. 
Wivill,  Robert,  bishop  of  Salisbury, 

22,  251. 
Wix,  Wykes,  co.  Essex,  deed  dated 

and  acknowledged  at,  472. 
Wlonkeslowe.     See  Longslow. 
Wlrvch,  John,  551. 
woad,  325,  328. 

Wobourne,  Wouborne,  Woubourne, 

Wouburne,     Robert,    Robert 

de,   343,   419,   450,   459,   5.55, 

556. 

Woburn,    Wobourne    [co.    Bedford], 

abbot  and  convent  of,  594. 
Wode,  Isabel  wife  of  John  de,  468. 

,  John,    John   atte,    John   be 

the,  John  de,  85,  468,  582. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  farmer  of  Feckenham 

manor,   65. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  keeper  of  Feckenham 

forest,  232. 

, ,  knight,  347. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Worcester,  476,  612. 

,  merchant  of  Aberdeen, 

64. 

,  Peter  atte,  465,  542,  544. 

,  Robert  atte,   154. 

,  .  .  . .,  of  Marnham,  571. 


Wode — cont. 

Stephen  atte,  of  the  Isle  of 

I  Wight,  110. 

I      Thomas  atte,  317,  318,  457. 

,  William  atte,  356,  573. 

,  .  .  .  . ,   coroner   of   co.   War- 
wick, 367. 

,  William  del,   knight  of  the 

shire  of  Stafford,  101. 
Wodebergh.      See    Wood  borough. 
Wodebergh,  Walter  de,  the    king's 

Serjeant  at  arms,  229. 
Wodecokke,  Robert,  352. 
Wodecroft.     See  Woodcroft. 
Wodefal,  William  atte,  431,  4.32. 
'     Wodeford,  William  de,  339. 
Wodehall.     See  Wood  Hall. 
i     Wodehall,  John  de.  308. 
I     Wodehalle.     See  Wood  HaU. 
Wodeliam.     See  Woodiiam. 
Wodeham,  Edward  de,  350,  586. 

i      ,  Jolin  de,  350. 

, ,  the  elder,  350. 

Wodeheved.     See  Woodliead. 
Wodehouse,  John  de,  of  Leicester- 
shire, 585. 

,  Ralph  de,  of  Horsley,  239. 

Wodehouses,    John,    of   Derbyshire, 
I  317. 

!     WodehuUe,       Wodliulle,       Eleanor 
i  daughter  of  John  de,  68. 

I      ,  ....   wife  of   Jolxn  de,    the 

•  elder,  68. 

i     ,  Elizabeth  daughter  of  Jolm 

de,  68. 

,  Isabel  wife  of  John  de,  68. 

,  John  de,   68. 

William,  68. 

Wodelond,    Wodlond,    Walter,    334, 
343. 

{      ,  . .  . . ,   burgess  of  Guildford 

in  parliament,  290. 
Wodende.     See  Woodend. 
Woderoue,  John,  of  Bristol,  538. 
Wodesete.     See  Woodsetts. 
Wodewyk,  William  de,  315. 
Wodewylle,  Richard,  73. 
Wodforde.     See  Woodford. 
Wodforth,  WiUiam  de.  92. 
W^odhulle.     See  Wodehulle. 
Wodlond.      See    Wodelond,    Wood- 
house. 
Wodlyng.    See  Wadling. 
Wodmersthorn.        See      Woodman- 

sterne. 
Wogan,  John,  5,  6. 
Wokendon.     »See  Ockendon. 
Wokeseye.     See  Oaksey. 
Woketon    [near    Cheddington,    co. 
'  Buckingham  ?],    447,    448. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


817 


WokJ^^don,  WokjTigdone.  See  Ock- 
orulon. 

Wolaston,  Jolui  de,  73. 

Woley.  Wollcph,  Jolm,  343,  349. 

Wolf,  Woiilf ,  Richard  .son  of  Richard, 
507. 

, son  of  Walter,  506. 

,  William,  493. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  lord  of  Easton  Maudit, 

66. 

Wolferston,  Wolferton.  Sec  Wolfre- 
ton. 

Wolfhani])coto.  Wolflianicote,  co. 
Warwick,  advowson  of,  126, 
454. 

,  Fleckno,  Fleckenho  in,  327. 

Wolfrechoston.     See  Wolston. 

Wolfroton,  Wolferston,  Wolferton, 
Ralph,  280. 

Roger  de,  171,  535. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  escheator  in  Essex,  2. 

, , in  Suffolk,  4,  240. 

Wolfj'snymet,  co.  Devon,  506. 

Wollav\nigton,  Roger  de,  bailiff  of 
Bridgwater,  369. 

WoUegh.     -See  Woley. 

WoUore.     -See  Wooler. 

Wollore,  David  de,  clerk,  70,  71,  79, 
120. 

,  .  .  . . ,  keeper  of  the  rolls  of 

chancery,  77. 

Wolmere.     See  Woolmer. 

Wolmersty,  Thomas  de,  abbot  of 
Walthani,  245. 

Wolston,  Wolfrecheston,  co.  War- 
wick, prior  of,  202. 

,  Brandon,  Braiindon  in,   74. 

See  Woolstone. 

Wolterton,  Jolm  de,  parson  of  Harp- 
ley,  564,  565,  569. 

Wolvele,  Wolveleye,  Thomas  de,  593. 

,  .....  farmer  of  subsidy,  537. 

Wolverton.  William  de,  controller  of 
worlds  at  King's  Langley,  142. 

Wolvestone,  Roger,  565. 

Woh'yne,  Richard,  602. 

Wolwiche.     See  Woolwich. 

Wolwro,  Thomas  de,  of  Birton,  420. 

Wolwych.    See  Woolwich. 

Wombleton,  Wymbelton  [in  Kirk- 
dale].  CO.  York,  528. 

Wooburn,  Woubm-ne,  co.  Bucking- 
ham, 118,  451. 

Wood.     See  Wode. 

Woodborough,  Wodebergh,  co. 
Wilts,  advowson  of,  128. 

,  fee  in,  128. 

Woodcroft,  Wodecroft  [in  Luton], 
CO.  Bedford,  manor  of,  509, 
510. 


Wood  Ditton.      See  Ditton. 

Wood  End,  the  Wodendo  in  Blacol- 
nesle  [in  Blnkesloy],  co.  North- 
ampton, 208. 

Woodford  (by  Thrapston),  Wod- 
fordo,  CO.  Northampton,  ad- 
vowson of,  68. 

manor  of,  68. 

Wood  Hall,  the  Wodehall,  Wode- 
halle  in  Arkesden,  co.  Essex, 
66,  67. 

,  manor  of,  575. 

\Voodliam  Ferrers,  Wodeham,  Wode- 
ham  Ferers,  co.  Essex,  church 
of,  349,  350. 

com-t  at,  350. 

,  manor  of,  349. 

,    market     and   fair   at. 


350. 


350. 
Walter, 


mill  at,  349. 
park  at,  349. 
places    named  in. 


■NA'odeham 

See 


349, 

[co, 
Fitz 


Essex],    lord    of. 
Walter,  Walter. 

Woodliead,  Wodeheved  [in  Great 
Casterton],  co.  Rutland, 
manor  of,  160. 

Woodhouse,  Wodlond  [in  Stoke  upon 
Tern,  co.  Salop],  assignment 
of  dower  in,  355,  356. 

Woodmansterne,  Wodmersthorn,  co. 
Surrey,  427. 

Woodsetts,  Wodesete,  co.  York,  377. 

wool,  38,  121,  122,  130,  153,  154, 
170,  192,  193,  207,  216,  217, 
227,  258,  383,  389,  390,  391, 
399,  409,  434,  518,  519,  525, 
530. 

,  balances    and    weights    for 

weigliing,    129,  214,   399. 

for  the  king's  carpets,  41. 

proclamation     relating     to, 

434. 

staple  of,  38,  155,  193,  434. 

subsidy  on,    143,    150,   210, 

241,  250,  251,  314,  410. 

,  woolfolls  by  the  lesser  hun- 
dred, 497. 

Wooler,  Wollore,  co.  Northiunber- 
land,  fees  in,  448. 

,  manor  of,  448. 

Woolmer,  Wolmere  forest  [co. 
Hants],  election  of  verderers 
in,  14. 

Woolstone,  Wolston,  co.  Bucking- 
ham, manor  of,  48. 

Woolwich,  Wolwiche,  Wolwj^ch  [co. 
Kent],  467. 

OB  52 


818 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Woolwich— g:ont. 

parson      of.        See      Pi-eiie. 

VV^illiam  do. 
Woottou  St.  LawTonco,  Wotton,  co. 

Hants.  83. 
iiucliT  Weaver,  Wotton  under 

Wavere,  co.  Stafford,  356. 

covirt  at,  357. 

,  park  of,  357. 

,  places  named  in,  357. 

Worcester,   108,   109,  453,  454,  455. 

bailiff  of.    »?eeBaret,  Robert. 

,  bishdp  of.    See  Brandesford, 

Wolstan  d'!  ;    Lenjie,  \Viiliarn 

do  ;  Thoresby,    John  ;  Wliit- 

tlesey,  William  de. 
,  bishopric    of,  temporalities, 

of,  271,  364. 

,  ca-stlo  of,  127,  138. 

,  chiu'ch  of,  525. 

,  citizens    of,    summoned    to 

parliament,    101,   290,   298. 

,  diocese  of.  251. 

,  government  of,  268. 

,  Imndred  of,  138. 

,  John  prior  of,  569. 

true  men  and  conunonalty  of, 

268. 
Perry  Wood,  Pirie,  Pyrie  in, 

108,  109,  453,  454. 
W^orcester,    coimty    of.    WjTcestre- 

shire,  80,  437,  441,  596. 
coroners    of,    8,     162,    221, 

358. 
,  escheat ors   in.     See    Drury, 

Henry  ;      Hambury,     Jolin  ; 

Russell,  Robert. 

,  justices  of  assize  in.  466. 

,  knights  of  tlie  sliire  of,  100, 

289,  298,  316.  476,  612. 
sheriff  of,  8,   162,  209,  221. 

298,  358,  401.  476. 

,  slirievalty  of,  127,  138. 

,  taxation  in,  424. 

Worda.     See  Littleworth. 
Worfield,  Worfeld,  co.  Salop,  cliurch 

of,  240. 
Worfton.  Werfton.  William,  93,  280. 

309.  543. 
Workeslegli,  Henry  de,  154. 
Worlington,  Wrydlpigton,  co.  Suf- 
folk, manor  and  advowson  of. 

560. 
Wormegay,  Wirmegeye,  W\Tmegeye 

[co.  Norfolk],  253,  432. 
lord      of.        See      Bardolf , 

William, 
worsted,  579. 
Worsteds,    William    de.    citizen    of 

Norwich,  222. 


Wortliam,  AValter  son  of  Rolxirt  de, 

chaplain,  378. 
Worthevale,  co.  Cornwall,  manor  of, 

86. 
Worthington,  Worthynton  [in  Bree- 
don  on  the  Hill],    co.    Leices- 
ter, 84. 
Worthy,    King's,   Kj^ngsworthv,   co. 

Hants,  588,  610: 
VV^ortliynton.     See  Worthington. 
Woteryngbiu-y.     See  Wateringbury. 
Woter\mgbury,  Bartholomew  son  of 

Ylilbert  de,  54. 
Wotenhulle,  Nicholas  de,  clerk,  357. 

Cf.  WettenJnille. 

WottoiL,  ])arson  of.     See  Wyggeley, 
Robert  de. 

See  W'ootton. 

Wotton,  Henrv  de,  356. 

,  John,\523. 

,   .  .  .  . ,   merchant   of   Bristol, 

30. 

,  LawTence     de,     burgess    of 

Grimsby  in  ))arliament,   477. 

,  Wilham,  William  de,  74,  176. 

Wouborne,    Woubom-ne.      See   Wo- 

boui'ne. 
Woubiu-ne.      See   Woboiume,    Woo- 

burn. 
Woulf.     See  Wolf. 
Woundenwalle,  Richard  de,  356. 

Stephen  de,  356. 

,  William  de,  356. 

Woxale,  Walter,  80. 
W^oxbrugge.     See  Uxbridge. 
Woxbriigge,  RicJiard  de.  parson  of 

Ingoldsby,  428,  429. 
Woxindon.     See  Uxendon. 
W^rabness,  Wrabbenasse,  co.  Essex, 

manor  of,  272. 
Wradwell,  John,  401. 
Wragby,  co.  Lincoln,  manor  of.  394. 

,  CO.      York,      St.      Oswald's 

priory  in,  76,  85. 
Wrandike,  Wrangdjk,  co.  Rutland, 

lumdred  of,  127. 
Wrangbrook,       Wrangebroke        [in 
North  Elmsalll,  co.  York,  189. 
Wrangdj'k.     See  Wrandike. 
Wrangebroke.     See  ^A'^angbrook. 
Wratting,     AVrattjTig,     West     [co. 
Cambridge],  85. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  deed  dated  at,  85. 

Wrattyng,  Philip  de,  clerk,  85. 
Wraysbm-y.        See     Wj-rardisbury. 
Wrenche,  John,  17,  18. 

,  Margaret  vnfe  of  Jolm,   17, 

18. 
Wretham,    East,    Estwrotham,    co. 
Norfolk,  564. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


819 


Wretham — cont. 

,  West,      VVostwTotham,      cu. 

Norfolk,   564. 
Wretlie,  JoJiu  le,  356. 

Cf.  Ketlio. 

Wriglit,  WrygJit,  Gilbert,  cliaplaiii, 
395. 

,  Kichard  lo,  of  Horsley,  239. 

,  WiJliani,  350. 

Wrington,  marsli  of,  Wryiigenicrssh, 
CO.     Somorsct,     coroner     for 
parts  of,  57. 
Writele.     See  Writtle. 
writs  : — 

causes  without  tlie  king's,    55, 

130. 
dedimus  potestatem,  86,  112, 
179,  182,  193,  194,  330,  333, 
336,  348,  440,  472,  551,  560, 
566,  569,  572,  580,  588,  598. 
de  expensis,    100-101,   288-290, 

316-317,  475-477,  611-613. 
de  intendendo,  .50,  132,  141,  145, 
154,  207,  268,  362,  364,    370, 
408.  410,  504,  508. 
de  judicio,    106,    176.    180.   281, 
282,  321,  324,  326,  420,  425, 
426,  457,  459,  470,  478,  479, 
481,   538-540,   545,   546,   578, 
584,  585.  590,  594,  610. 
for  accoiint,  460. 
for    measurement    of    common 

pasture,  1,  51,  382. 
of  aid.  452,  530. 
of  annuity,  432. 
of  attachment,  459. 
of  cliancery,  4,  107. 
of  com'se,  365,  445. 
of  debt,  180. 
of  dower,  473. 
of  exigents,  192,  283,  291,  449, 

452. 
of  formedon,  548. 
of  nisi  prins,  40,  44,  202,  224, 
239.  245,  250.  254,  258,  371, 
378,  385,  388.  405,  413,  491, 
500. 
of  privy  seal,  43,  87,  144,  360, 

467,  473.  550. 
of  prohibition,  266. 
of  ravislimeni  of  ward,  81. 
of  supersedeas,  87,  266,  425,  529, 

578,  591. 
of    supersedeas   rege    inconsulto, 

421. 
unopened,  cancellation  of,  474. 
Writtle,      Writele.      Writtele      [co. 
Essex].   346,   600-602. 

,  Englisshes  in,  601. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  600,  601. 


Writtle — cont. 

,  manor  of,  495. 

,  MaundevilloH   in,    COl. 

Wro,  Jolm  in  the,  of  Siu'rey,  599. 

Wroth,  John,  105,  266,  536. 

,  .  .  .  .,  citizen  of  London,  the 

elder,  533,  546. 

,  knight  of  the   shire  of 

Middlesex,   101. 

,  of  Enfield,  the  young- 
er, 533. 

, ,  the  younger,  292,  309, 

546,  559. 

,  Margaret  wife  of  John,  the 

elder,  546. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  Francis  lier  son,  546. 

,  ^Villiam,  554. 

Wroughton,  co.  Wilts,  Chilton  in, 
163. 

Elcombe,  Elcoumbe  in,  309. 

,  Saltrop,  Saltharp  in,  163. 

Wroxeter,  co.  Salop,  Dryton,  Dray- 
ton in,  237. 

Wrydlyngton.     See  Worlington. 

Wryght.     See  Wright. 

Wryngemerssh.     See  Wrington. 

Wy,  Kichard,  Carmelite  friar,  584. 

Wyboldeston,  Elizabeth  wife  of  John 
son  of  William  son  of  Richard 
de,  417. 

Wycham.    See  Wickliam. 

Wychard,  John,  coroner  of  co.  War- 
wick, 367. 

Wyche,  356. 

See  Droit wich. 

Wyche,  Roger,  mayor  of  Preston, 
481. 

Wycheford.  See  Wliittlesford,  Wish- 
ford. 

Wycherlee,  Robert,  master  of  St. 
LawTence  Poultney  college. 
Seint  Laurencz  Pulteney 
chiu*ch,  London,  585. 

Wychford,  ^Villiam,  335. 

Wychingham.     See  Wicli^xTigliam. 

Wychwood,  \Vniichewode  forest  [co. 
Oxford],  verderer  of.  See 
Frettewelle,  Ralph. 

Wychyngham.  See  Wichj-ngham, 
Witchingham. 

Wyclyf,  John  de,  449. 

,  Robert,   of   Yorkshire,    480. 

Wycomb,  Wykliam  [in  Rothley],  co. 
Leicester,  428. 

Wycombe  [co.  Buckingham],   75. 

,    High,      CO.      Buckingham, 

bailiffs  and  men  of,  508. 
,  burgesses  of,  in  parlia- 
ment, 298,  613. 
, ,  farm  of,  496,  508. 


820 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Wycombe,  High — cont. 
manor   of,    496,    506, 

508. 
Wydden.     See  Bittadoa. 
Wyddone,    liicliard    do,    citizen    of 

London,  83. 
VVyddial,  Wydyhale  [co.  Hertford], 

444. 
Beanchamps    alias    Alflato- 

vvyk  in,  444. 
Wydemerpole.     See  Widmerpool. 
Wyderyngton,  Roger  do,  256. 
Wydeslade.     See  Wyndslado. 
Wydeville.     See  WideviJlu. 
Wydyhale.    See  Wyddial. 
WydjTidon,  WilUam  de,  451. 
Wyfordby,  Wyvordeby  [co.  Leices- 
ter], advowson  of,  339. 

,  manor  of,  339. 

,  parson  of.    See  Brentyngby, 

Richard  de. 
Wygan.    See  Wigan. 
Wygan,  Tlnirstan  son  of  Jolin  de, 

453. 
Wygebergh.     See  Wigborougli. 
Wyger,  William,  of  Devon,  425. 
Wygge,  Richard,   593. 
Wyggeleyo,    Wyggele,    Robert    de, 

parson  of  Wotton,  320. 
,  Roger    de,    coroner    of    co. 

Derby,  358. 
Wyggemore,    Wygmore,    Joan    de, 

294,  332. 
Wyghale.     See  Wighill. 
Wyght.       See     Wight. 
Wyghtman,     William,     burgess     of 

Huntingdon    in     parliament, 

299. 

Cf.  Wliiteman. 

Wyghton.    See  Weighton. 
Wj^ghton,  William  de,  50 L 
Wyghtreshamme.     See  Wittersham. 
Wyghtreshamnae,    Gilbert    de,    fish- 
monger, of  London,  312,  313, 

314. 
,  Joan  wife  of  William  de,  312, 

313,  314. 

,  William  de,  3i3. 

Wygmore.     See  Wyggemore. 
Wygtoft.    See  Wig'toft. 
WygjTithorp.     See  Wigginthorpe. 
Wyham,  Wj'hum  [co.  Lincoln],  337. 

,  manor  of,  336,  337. 

Wyhom,  William,  458. 
Wyhum.  See  Wyham. 
Wyke    Burnel,  Wyke  [in  Pershore], 

CO.  AVorcester,  manor  of.  108, 

453,  454. 

See  Wick. 

Wyke,  Henry  atte,  533. 


Wyke — cont. 

John  do,  160. 

Nicholas,  Nicholas  de,   319, 

554. 

,  Robert,  433. 

,  William  atto,  582. 

Wyken,  Wykene,  co.  Warwick,  430. 

,  manor  of,  430. 

Wykes.     Sec  Wix. 

Wykes,  Aubrey  do,  576,  582. 

Cf.  Wyke. 

Wykeliain,  William  de,  archdeacon 
of  Lincoln,  134,  195. 

,  bishop  of  Winchester, 

26,  70,  75,  76,  78,  83,  86,  98, 
109,  110,  133,  134,  145.  175, 
179,  181,  182,  183,  184,  185, 
192,  193,  195,  196,  197,  198, 
199,  251,  287,  288,  299,  321, 
322,  388,  542,  543,  549,  551, 
563,   578,   586. 

,....,    .  .  .  . ,   chancellor,    94, 

136,  151,  187,  287. 

,  ....,   justice  of  the  forest 

south  of  Trent,  258. 

Wykham.        See     Wickliam,     Wy- 
comb. 

Wyklierst,  John  son  of  John,  481. 

Wyklewode,    Jolm   de,  of   Norwich, 
425. 

Wj'kwan.    See  Wickham. 

Wykyng,  John,  284,  285. 

, ,  the  elder,  280. 

(7/.  Wyty-ng. 

Wykyngesham.     See  Wicklesome. 

Wylde.     See  Wilde. 

W^yldeboef .     See  Waldebeef . 

Wyllyngham.     See  Willingham. 

Wylmendecote.       See    Wilnecoto. 

Wylmot.     See  WiljTnot. 

Wylton.    See  Wilton. 

Wyltynge.     See  Wilting. 

Wylughby.      See   Wllloughby,  Wil- 
lughby. 

Wylynghale.     See  Willingale. 

Wylynhale,  co.  Hereford,  144. 

WjTTibelton.      See   Wombleton. 

WjTnbissh.     See  Wimbish. 

Wymeswold,     William,     canon     of 
Sempringham,  228. 

Wymington,  Wvmyngton  [co,  Bed- 
ford], 74,"  440,  441. 

Wymondham,  co.  Leicester,   397. 

Wymondham,  Wymundliam,  Adam 
de,  sheriff  of  London,  79. 

,  William      de,      the      king's 

physician,  331. 

Wymound,  Jolin,  332. 

Wymjiole.     See  Wimpole. 

Wympton,  John  de,  575,  577. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


821 


Wymundliani.    See  Wyniondliam. 
Wymyngton.     Sec  Wymington. 
Wyn,  Joliii.  citizen  of  Cluchester  in 

parliament,  297,  316. 

C/.  Wpie. 

Wynbergli.  See  W'Jiinbergh. 
Wyncostre.  See  Wincliester. 
Wynchconibe,  Wynchecombe,  John 

parson  of  Ayot  St.  LawTence, 

596. 

,  Simon,  323. 

Wynchelse.    Sec  Winchelsea. 
Wynchestre,     Jolin     de,     chaplain, 

53. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  wai'den  of  the  chantry 

of  Winterboume  by  Bristol, 

52. 
Kalph,    glover    of    London, 

441. 
Wyndasjilace.     See  Windowes. 
Wynde,  William,  merchant  of  Lon- 
don, 368. 
WjTidesore.     Sec  Windsor. 
WjTidesore,  Wvndeshore,  John,  Jolin 

de,  70.  ^ 
,  .  .  .  . ,    coroner   for    Oxford- 
shire, 49. 
,  .  .  .  . ,    prior    of    St.    Mary, 

Elsing  Spittle,  London,   295. 

,  William  de.  11. 

, ,  clerk,  42,  74,  75,  281. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  governor  and  guardian 

of  Ireland,  520,  529. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  the  king's  lieutenant 

in  Leland,  24,  56,   131,   148, 

164,  203,  230,  246,  249,  254. 

256,  257.  259,  262,  265,  267, 

327,   365,   380. 
WjTidslade,  Wydeslade,  W\Tiselade, 

WjTislade, Eleanor  ( Braunchc ) 

wife  of  Richard  de,  120. 
,  Stephen,    Stephen   de,    119, 

120,  172,  217,  218,  431. 
,•■••,  lord  of  Frome  Brauncho 

and  Vallis,  95. 
Wyne,  Tliomas  atte,  83. 

Cf.\Yjn. 

Wynewyk.     See  W>ai\%yk. 
WjTieyard,  John  atte,  43. 
Wyngefeld,  William  de.  knight,  346. 

Cf.  Wynkefcld. 

WjTiliale.     See  Winnal. 
Wynkefeld,  Wynkfeld.  Joan  wife  of 

William,  295. 

,  Thomas,  495. 

,  William,  knight,  295. 

Cf.  WjTigefeld. 

Wynkele.     See  Winkleigh. 
Wpikele,  Richard  de,  97. 
Wynkfeld.     See  Wynkefeld. 


Wynsolade,  Wj-nslado.     See  Wynd- 

Blade. 
WjTiter,  Maud  wife  of  Thomas,  571. 

,  TJiomas,  571. 

C'/.  Vynter. 

Wynterborne,  Wynterbum,  Thomas, 

600. 

William,  259.     • 

Wynterbourne.      Sec    Winterborno, 

Winter  boiu-no. 
Wyntcrburn.      See   WjTiterbome. 
Wynterburneniayn.       Sec     Wintcr- 

bom'ne. 
Wynterfold,  Heiu'y,  65. 
AV^yntirton,     John     de,     citizen     of 

Norwich,    222. 
Wjaiwyk,  Wynewyk,   John  de,   55, 

518. 
W^jTall,  John  de,  571. 
WjTardisbury,     \N^jTardcsbury    [co. 

Buckingham],  parson  of.    Sec 

Shareshill,  Jolm  do. 
WjTcestreshire.        See      W'orcester, 

county  of. 
Wyriot,  WUliam,  497. 
Wyrmegeye.     See  Wormegay. 
Wysdom,  Robert,  Robert  de,  cscJiea- 

tor  in  Cornwall,  34,  35. 
Wyse,  John,  425. 
Wysebech.      Sec  Wisbeach. 
Wysebcche,  Jolm,  of  London,   283. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  tailor,  599. 

Wyset,  William,  rector  of  Litwood, 

333 
Wysham,  Jolin  de,  knight,  185,  186, 

191. 
Katherine  wife  of  Jolm  de, 

191. 
Wyske,  Jolm,  of  London,  tailor,  436. 
Wyssendene.       See    Wliissendine. 
Wysshele.     Sec  Whissele. 
Wyterne,  Jolm,  523. 
WythegenemuUe,       Wj-thegermulle. 

Sec  WithegenemuUe. 
Wyther,   Jolm,  the  king's  feJconer, 

174. 
,  William,      of      Dorchester, 

farmer  of  subsidj',  317. 
Wji;herefeld,      Wytheresfeld.        Sec 

Withersfield. 
Wytlilawe,  Joan  (de  Vespount)  wife 

of  William,  147. 

,  WiUiam.   147. 

Cf.  Whitlawe. 

Wythop    [in    Lorton],    co.    Cumber- 
land, 146. 
Wj'thorn\\-\-k,   Wythornewjk,    John 

de,  566. 
,   clerk,   284.    346,   458, 

562,  580,  582. 


t22 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Wythyhamine.     See  VVithyhaui. 
Wj-thynton.     See  Withynton. 
Wytlesseye.     See  WJiittloscy. 
Wytneshain.     See  Witiu'shain. 
Wj-ttehain.     See  Witliain. 
VVytteuassli.     <See  WJutuasli. 
Wytyng,  Jolin,  591. 

C/.  Wykyiig. 

Wyvelesford.      See    Wilsford. 
Wyvenlio.     See  Wivt-nJioe. 
Wyverstoiie,  co.  Suffolk,  57G,  582. 
Wyvorcleby.     See  Wyfordby. 


Y 

Ya,  John  attc,  533. 

Yakosle.     See  Yaxk^y. 

Yalding,     co.     Kent,     Bockingfold, 

Bokyngfold  in,  271. 
Yardley,  Yerdelo    [in  Thaxted],  co. 

Essex,  fee  in,  492. 
,  Ardelov,   Erdele   [co.   Hert- 
ford], 502. 
,  Moor  Hall,  tlie  More 

in,  502. 
,  Ylierdele,      co.     Worcester, 

manor  of,  127. 
Gobion,    co.    Northampton, 

Moorend,  Morende  in,  323. 
Yarnioutli,  Great,  Great  Jernemutli 

[CO.  Norfolk],  180. 
, ,   bailiffs  of,    115,   244, 

264,  329,  483,  518. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  burgess  of,  in  parlia- 
ment, 299. 

, ,  port  of,  27,  192,  518. 

,  . .  .  . ,      .  .  .  . ,     collectors     of 

customs  in,   121,   150,  409. 
,  . .  .  . ,     . .  .  . ,     controller    of 

customs  in,  150. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  . .  . . ,  farm  of  customs 

in,  495. 
,  .  .  .  . ,    .  .  .  . ,  keeper.s  of  the 

passage    in,    337,    422,    449, 

474. 
Little,  Little  Jernemuth  [co. 

Suffolk],  82,  545. 
Yarrowdale,  Yaroudalefeld  in  Qior- 

ley,  CO.  Lancaster,  355. 
Yate,  John  atte,  294,  295. 
,  Thomas     atte,     rector     of 

Blaxliall,  541. 
Yately,  co.  Hants,  Cove  in,  419. 
Yatesbm-y  [co.  Wilts],  601. 
Yatton.  CO.  Somerset,  Wick,  Wvke 

ill,   95. 


Yatton — cont. 

Keynel],  Yatton  Keynes,  co. 

Wilts,   175. 

Yauewortli,  TJioinas  de,  475. 

Yaxley,  Yakesle  [co.  Huntingdon], 
bailiffs  of,  115. 

YcUe.     See  Idle. 

Yedefen,  Jolm,  189. 
,  Ralph,   189. 

Yedoloe,  John,  186. 
Cf.  Idelegh. 

Yoldliam,  Gelham,  Great  [co.  Essex], 
I  609. 

'      ,    Grapnells,     Grapj-nelis    in, 

'  609. 

I      ,  Old  Hall,  Eldehalle  in,  609. 

j     Yelverton,  co.  Norfolk,  418. 

!     Yelvorton,  John  de,  569. 

'     Yenesfeld.     See  Ensfield. 

j     Yeovil,  Jevele,  Yevele,  co.  Somerset, 

I  288. 

;      .,  Newton,  Neuton  Sermaville 

i  in,  516. 

I     ,  parson  of.     See  Samborne, 

I  Robert. 

Yerde,  John  atte,  593. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  farmer  of  subsidy,  537. 

,....,    of    East    Lambrook, 

254. 

Yerdele.    See  Yardley. 

Yerdele,  John  de,  492. 

,  Roger     de,     hayward     and 

warrener  of  Bray,  155. 

Yemmonger.     See  IJrmonger. 

Yerward,  Joan  wife  of  Richard,  274. 

,  Richard.   274. 

Yeuel,  Jolin,  of  Lincolnshire,  435. 

Yevele.     See  Yeovil. 

Yevele,  John,  596. 

Yevering,  Yeverne  [m  Kirknewton, 
CO.  Northumberland],  manor 
of,  448. 

Ylierdele.     See  Yardley. 

Yliong.     See  Yonge. 

Yiftele.    See  Iffley. 

Ymworth.     See  Imworth. 

Yokefieet,  Yucfiet  [in  Howden,  co. 
York],  riot  at,  247. 

Yonge,  Yhong,  John,   106. 

,  . .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  329. 

,  Thomas.  475,  574,  604. 

Walter.  343,  450,  555,  556, 

561,  562,  602. 

,  Wihiam  of  Spratton,   87. 

Cf.  Jeovene. 

York  [CO.  York].  227,  386,  394,  430, 

434,  491,  519,  588. 
archbishop  of.     See  Thores- 

by,  John. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


823 


York,  ftnhbihliop  of — cont. 
,  .....  steward  of.     See  Bar- 
ton, Henry  de. 
,  arohbisliojwie   of,   gtiardians 

of  the  spirituality  of,  595. 
,  bailiffs  of,  275,  329,  357,  405, 

438,  482. 

castle,  6. 

jiLStices     to     deliver 

gaol  of,  519. 

,  repair  of  bridge  of.  2C. 

citizen    of,    in    parliament, 

299. 
,  cl(>rk  to  lake  recognizances 

of   debt   in.      See   Auxiholm, 

Henry  de. 
Da\y  Gate,  Davy  prison  in, 

159. 

,  deed  dated  at.  548. 

,  diocese  of,  252. 

,  disturbances  in,   59,   275. 

,  farm  of,  405. 

friars  minors  of,  eluirch  of, 

438. 

,  Graj^ecuntlane  in.   430. 

,  mayor    of,    329,    357,    438, 

482.    See  also  Selby.  Roger  de. 

,  mayoralty  of,  275. 

,  parliament  at,  25. 

,  prison  at,  59.  159,  386. 

,  province  of,  264,  403. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  convocation  of  clergj' 

of,  287,  588,  595. 

,  removal  of  nuisances  in,  438. 

St.  Mary's' abbey,  abbey  of 

Onr  Lad}-,  abbot  of,  4,  5,  332. 
,    ....  and  convent  of, 

294. 
St.    Nicholas,    hospital    of, 

491. 
,  St.  Peter's  church,  canon  of, 

See  Barton,  Henry  de. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  chapter  of,  595. 

,  convocation  of  clergy 

at,  588,  595. 
,     treasmvr     of.       See 

Branketre.  John  de. 
,  Walmgat(s    "Walmegate    in, 

491. 
York,  oountv  of,  66,  84.  86,  88.  94. 

95.    98.    109,    174,    192,    193. 

200.  296,  334.  4.30.  434.  456, 

458,  465,  466,  473,  536,  540, 

549,  570,  572,  574,  576,  582, 

598. 
,  arrays  in  Estrithing,  North- 

ritiiing    and    Westrithing    of, 

125.  361,  362. 
coroners   of,    46,    122,    135, 

235-237,  358,  486. 


York,  county  of,  coroners  of — cont. 

,   ....  in  \Vest  ridiiig,  \\'est- 

rithing  of,  417. 

escheators  in.     See  Ergum, 

William  ;  Lascels,  Roger  ; 
Miisgi'a\'t),  Thomas  do  ;  Nes.so- 
feld.  William  de  ;  Reygate, 
William  de  ;  Scotherskelf, 
John  ;   Vale,  William  de  la. 

,  guardians  of  the  peace  in  the 

East  riding.  Estrithing  of,  37. 

in    the    North    riding, 

Northrithing  of,   37. 

,   .  .  .  .     in    the    West    riding, 

\\'estrithing  of,   37,   308. 

inquisitioii  concerning  felon- 
ies in,  77. 

,  justices    for    pleas    of    the 

forest  in,  159,  166,  167,  255, 
386. 

....  of  assize  in,  571. 

,  ....  of  oyer  and  terminer  in 

West  riding  of,  480. 

,  ....  to  keep  rivers  in,  163. 

,  ....  to  preserve  the  peace 

in,  519. 

in  East  riding  of, 

541. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  100, 

289,  299.  316,  476,  611. 

.  .' sheriff  of.  6.  9,  26.  37.  46.  51, 

86,100.  115.122.135,  154,202, 
208,  209,  235-237,  299,  358, 
362,  363,  373.  394.  419,  431, 
439,  443,  449,  457,  476.  477, 
480.  486,  539.  See  also  Aeon, 
William  de  ;  Bygot,  John  ; 
Chaumont,  John. 

,  his  clerk.     See  Thorp, 

Thomas  do. 

,  sub-escheator       in.  See 

Quixeleye,  Roger  de. 

,  taxation  in,  172,  537. 

trespasses  in,  114. 

York,  Richard  de,  356. 

Yorton   [in   Broughton,   co.    Salop], 
Banasti-e   of.      See   Banasti*e. 

Yorton,  Richard  de,  chajilain.  62. 

Youghal,  Youghidl  [co.  Cork],  Ire- 
land, church  of,  72. 

manor  of.  72,  113. 

Ypres.  Ipre  [\V.  Flanders].  300. 

burgesses  of,  named,  1 52. 

Yremongere.    See  Irmonger. 

Yucflet.     See  Yokcfleet. 

Yve,  James,  citizen  of  Norwich,  222. 

Yvessone,  John,  352. 


824 


GENERAL    IXDEX. 


Zacarie,  Benedict,  merchant  of  Lon- 
don, 477,  478. 

Zealand,  Seland  fJJenmark],  sliip  of, 
258. 

Zeeland,  Seland,  Zeland  [Holland], 
64,  366,  390,  467,  579. 

,  merchants  of,  10. 


Zeeland — cont. 

,  ships  of,  412. 

Ziorickzee,  Cerise  [Zeeland],  ship  of, 

382. 
Zouche,  Souche,  Zoiische,  Elizabeth 

wife  of  William  la,  610. 
Hugh    la,    knight,    lord    of 

Swave.sej%  457. 

,  Robert  la,  86. 

Roger  la,  427. 

,  William  la,  lord  of  Harring- 

worth,  109,  610. 
,  .  .  .  .,  of  Harring\sorth,    15, 

274. 
, ,  knight,  379,  588. 


CATALOGUE 

(Revised  to  2l8t  Juhj,   1911) 


OF 


ENGLISH,    SCOTTISH,    AND    IRISH    RECORD 
PUBLICATIONS, 

REPORTS     OF    THE     HISTORICAL    MANUSCRIPTS 

COMMISSION, 


AND 


ANNUAL  REPORTS  OF  THE  DEPUTY  KEEPERS 
OF  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS,  ENGLAND  AND 

IRELAND, 


Printed  for 

HIS  MAJESTY'S   STATIONERY  OEEICE, 

And  to  be  purchased, 

Either  directly  or  through  any  Bookseller,  from 

WYMAN    AND    SONS,    Ltd..    Fetter   Lane,    E.G., 
and  32,  Abingdon  Street,  Westminster,  S.W.  ;   or 

OLIVER    AND    BOYD,    Tweeddale    Court,    Edinburgh  ;    or 

E.    PONSONBY,  Ltd.,    116,   Grafton   Street,   Dublin. 


Sole  Wholesale  Agent  for  places  outside  the  United  Kingdom  of 

Great  Britain  and  Ireland, 

T.  FISHER  UNWIN,  1,  Adelphi  Terrace,  W.C. 

(Depots  in  New  York,  Toronto,  Melbourne,  Wellington,  Cape  Town, 

Calcutta,  Tokio,  and  Leipzig.) 


CONTENTS 


Page 

Calendars  of  State   Papers,   &c 3 

Acts  of  the  Privy  Council          8 

Public  Record  Office,  Lists  and  Indexes      10 

Chronicles  and  Memorials  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland 

during  the  Middle  Ages        12 

Publications  of  the  Record  Commissioners,  &c.           . .      . .  20 

Reports  on  the  Utrecht  Psalter      21 

Works    Published  in  Photozincography           22 

Historical  Manuscripts  Commission  Reports 24 

Reports  of  the  Deputy  Keeper  of  the  Public  Records       . .  31 

Scottish  Record  Publications       35 

Irish    Record   Publications              36 

Reports   of  the   Deputy   Keeper   of  the   Public   Records, 

Ireland           . .      .  .      37 


CALENDARS    OF   STATE    PAPERS,    dc 


[Imperial  8vo.,  cloth.     Price  15s.  each  Vohime  or  Part,  except  whoro 

otlierwiae  stated.] 


Subsequent  to  recommendations  of  Committees  of  the  Hou.se  of 
Commons  in  1800  and  1830,  the  Master  of  the  Rolls,  in  1865,  stated  to 
the  Lords  of  the  Treasury  that  althougli  "  the  Records,  State  Papern, 
"  and  Documents  in  his  charge  constitute  the  most  cornplcto  and 
"  perfect  series  of  their  kind  in  the  civilized  world,  and  although 
"  they  are  of  the  greatest  value  in  a  historical  and  constitutional  point 
"  of  view,  yet  they  are  comparatively  viseless  to  the  public  from  the 
"  want  of  proper  Calendars  and  Indexes."  Whereupon  their  Lord- 
ships assented  to  the  necessity  of  liaving  Calendars  prepared,  and 
empowered  the  Master  of  the  Rolls  to  take  such  steps  as  might  be 
necessary  for  this  purpose. 

The  following  Works  have  been  already  published  in  this  Series  : — 

Calendarium  Genealogicum  ;  for  the  reigns  of  Henry  III.  and 
Edward  I.     Edited  by  C.   Roberts.     2  Vols.      1865. 

Syllabus,  in  English  of  Rymer's  Fcedera.  By  Sir  T.  D.  Hardy, 
D.C.L.  1869-1885.  Vol.  L— 1066-1377.  {Out  of  Print.)  Vol. 
II.— 1377-1654.     Vol.  TIL,  Appendix  and  Index. 

Descriptive  Catalogue  of  Ancient  Deeds,  preserved  in  the  Public 
Record  Office.      1890-1906.     Vols.  I.,  II.,  III.,  IV.  and  V. 

Calendar  of  THE  Fine  Rolls.    Vol.  I.  Edward  I.    1272-1307.    1911. 

Calendar  of  the  Patent  Rolls.     1891-1911. 


Henry  III. 

Vol. 

I.   {Latin  text). — 

Vol. 

IIL- 

-1232-1247. 

1216-1225. 

Vol. 

IV.- 

-1247-1258. 

Vol. 

11. 
1225 

{Latin  text). — 
-1232 

Vol. 

V.- 

-1258-1266. 

Edward 

I. 

Vol. 

L- 

—  1272-1281. 

Vol. 

III.- 

—1292-1301. 

Vol. 

IL- 

—1281-1292. 

Vol. 

IV. 

—1301-1307. 

Edward 

II 

Vol. 

I. 

—1307-1313. 

Vol. 

IV. 

—  1321-1324. 

Vol. 

II. 

—  1313-1317. 

Vol. 

V. 

—  1324-1327. 

Vol. 

III. 

—  1317-1321. 

Edwabd 

III. 

Vol. 

I. 

—1327-1330. 

Vol. 

VI. 

—  1343-1345. 

Vol. 

II. 

—  1330-1334. 

Vol. 

VII. 

—1345-1348. 

Vol. 

III. 

—  1334-1338. 

Vol. 

VIII. 

—  1348-1350. 

Vol. 

IV. 

—  1338-1340. 

Vol. 

IX. 

—  1350-1354. 

Vol. 

V. 

—1340-1343. 

Vol. 

X.- 

—  1354-1358. 

Richard 

II. 

Vol. 

I. 

—1377-1381. 

Vol. 

IV. 

—  1388-1392. 

Vol. 

II. 

—1381-1385. 

Vol. 

V. 

—  1391-1396 

Vol. 

III. 

—1385-1389. 

Vol. 

VI. 

—  1396-1399 

Henry 

IV. 

Vol. 

I. 

-1399-1401. 

Vol. 

III.- 

—  1405-1408. 

Vol. 

II. 

—1401-1405. 

Vol. 

IV.- 

—1408-1413. 

Henry  V. 

Vol. 

I. 

—1413-1416. 

Henry 

VI. 

Vol. 

T. 

—  1422-1429. 

Vol. 

IV. 

—1441-1446 

Vol. 

II. 

—  1429-1436. 

Vol. 

V.- 

—  1446-1452. 

Vol. 

III. 

—1436-1441. 

Vol. 

VI.- 

-1452-1461. 

Edward 

IV. 

—  1461-1467. 

Edward 

IV., 

Henry  VI.— 14( 

37-1477. 

Edward  IV., 

Edward  V.,  Ri 

chard  til,  1476-1485. 

.  iis.-if.?->.— 

R/n.- 

-H.T.  Ltd. 

Vol. 
Edward 

Vol. 

Vol. 

Vol. 
Edward 

Vol. 

Vol. 


Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 


III.— 1234-12.37. 
IV.— 1237-1242. 

IV.— 1296-1302. 
v.— 1302-1307. 


III.— 131S- 1323. 
IV.— 1323-1327. 


VII. 
VIII. 
IX.- 
X. 
XI.- 


-1.343-1346. 
■1346-1349. 
-1349-1354. 
-1354-1360. 
-1360-1364. 


Calendar  of  the  Close  RoLLa.     1892-1911. 
Henry  III.  (Latin  text). 

Vol.       I.— 1227-1231.  I         Vol. 

II.— 1231-1234.  I         Vol. 

I. 

I.— 1272-127U.  Vol. 

II.— 1279-1288.  Vol. 

III.— 1288-1296. 
II. 
I.— 1307-1313.  Vol. 

II.— 1313-1318.  Vol. 

Edward  III. 

Vol.       I.— 1327-1330.  I         Vol. 

II.— 1330-1333.  I         Vol. 

III.— 1333-1337.  Vol. 

IV.— 1337-1339.  Vol. 

v.— 1339-1341.  I         Vol. 

VI.— 1341-1343.  Vol. 

Calendar  of  the  Charter  Rolls. 
Vol.       I.— 1226-1257. 
Vol.     II.— 1257-1300. 
Calendar  of  Inquisitions  post  mortem  and  other  analogous  doou- 
ments.      1898-1911. 

Vol.    I.— Henry  III.  l         Vol 

Vol.  II.— 1-19  Edward  I.  Vol. 

Vol.  v.— 1-9  Edward  II.! 

Second  Series — 
Henry  VII.— Vol.  I. 
Inquisitions  and  Assessments  relating  to  Feudal  Aids,  etc.     1284- 
1431.     Vol.  I.     Bedford  to  Devon.      1899.     Vol.   II.     Dorset  to 
Huntingdon.      1900.     Vol.  III.     Kent    to    Norfolk.      1904.     Vol. 
IV.     Northampton    to    Somerset.      1906.     Vol.    V.     Stafford    to 
Worcester.      1909. 
Calendar  of  Letters  and  Papers,  Foreign  and  Domestic,  op  the 
reign  of  Henry  VIII.,  preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office, 
the  British  Museum,  and  elsewhere  in  England.     Edited  bi/  J.  S. 
Brewer,  M.A.     (Vols.  I.-IV.)  ;    by  J.  Gairdner  (Vols.  V.-XIII.)  ; 
and  by  J.  Gairdner,  C.B.,  and  R.  H.  Brodie  (Vols.  XIV.-XXI.). 
1862-1910. 


XII.— 1364-1368. 
1903-1908. 

Vol.      III.— 1300-1326. 


VI.— 10-20  Edward  II. 
VII.— 1-9  Edward  III. 


Vol.    I.— 1509-1514.      (New  and 

revised  edition  in  the  Press. ) 
Vol.    II.    (in  two    parts) — 1515- 

1518.   (Part  II.  out  of  print.) 
Vol.  III.   (in  two  parts)— 1519- 

1523. 
Vol.  IV. — Introduction. 
Vol.  IV.,  Part  I.— 1524-1526. 
Vol.  IV.,  Part  II.— 1526-1528. 

{Out  of  print.) 
Vol.  IV.,  Part  in.— 1529-1530. 
Vol.  v.— 1531-1532. 
Vol.  VI.— 1533. 
Vol.  VII.— 1534. 
Vol.  VIII.— 1535,  Jan.  to  July. 
Vol.  IX.— 1535,  Aug.  to  Dec. 

{Out  of  print.) 
Vol.  X.— 1536,  Jan.  to  June. 

{Out  of  print.) 
Vol.  XI.— 1536,  July  to  Dec. 
Vol.  XII.,  Part  1.-1537,  Jan. 

to  May. 
Vol.  XII.,  Part  II.— 1537,  June 

to  Dec. 
Vol.  XIII.,  Part  I.— 1538,  Jan. 

to  July. 


Vol.   XIII.,    Part    II.— 1538, 

Aug.  to  Dec. 
Vol.  XIV.,  Part  I.— 1539,  Jan. 

to  July. 
Vol.    XIV.,    Part    II.— 1539, 

Aug.  to  Dec. 
Vol.  XV.— 1540,  Jan.  to  Aug. 
Vol.     XVL— 1540,     Sept.     to 

1541,  Dec. 
Vol.  XVII.— 1542. 
Vol.    XVIII.,    Part   I.— 1543, 

Jan.  to  July. 
Vol.   XVIII.,  Part  II.— 1543, 

Aug.  to  Dec. 
Vol.  XIX.,  Part  I.— 1544,  Jan. 

to  July. 
Vol.    XIX.,    Part    II.— 1544, 

Aug.  to  Dec. 
Vol.  XX.,  Part  I.— 1545,  Jan. 

to  July. 
Vol.     XX.,     Part    II.— 1545, 

Aug.  to  Dec. 
Vol.  XXI.,  Part  I.— 1546,  Jan. 

to  Aug. 
Vol.    XXI.,    Part    II.— 1546, 

Sept.  to  1547,  Jan. 


.{Out  of 
print. ) 


with 


5 

Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Domestic  Series,  of  the  reigns  of 

Edward    VI.,   Mary,   Elizabktu,   and  James   I.     Edited  by   R. 

Lemox  (V^ols.  I.  and  II.)  and  by  Mary  Anxe  Everett  Green 

{Vols.  III.-XII.).  1856-1872. 
Vol.  I.— 1547-1580. 
Vol.  II.— 1581-1590. 
Vol.  III.— 1591-1594. 
Vol.  IV.— 1595-1597. 
Vol.  v.— 1598-1601.  , 
Vol.     VI.— 1601-1603,      J 

with  Addenda,   1547-1565. 
Vol.  VII.— Addenda,  1566-1579 
{Out  of  print.) 
Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Domestic  Series,  of  the  reion    of 

Charles  I.     Edited  by  J.  Bruce  (Vols.  I. -XII.)  ;     by  J.  Bruce 

and  VV.  D.  Hamilton  (Vol.  XIII.)  ;    by  W.  D.  Hamilton   (Vols. 

XIV. -XXII.)  ;    by  W.  D.  Hamilton  and  Sophie  C.  Lomas   (Vol. 

XXIII.).      1858-1897. 
Vol.  I.— 1625-1626. 

Vol.        II.— 1627-1628. 


Vol.  VIII.— 1603-1610. 
Vol.  IX.— 1611-1618. 
Vol.  X.— 1619-1623. 
Vol.      XI.— 1623-1625, 

Addenda,  1603-1625. 
Vol.     XII.— Addenda,    1580- 

1625.     {Out  of  print.) 


Vol.  III.— 1628-1629. 

Vol.  IV.— 1629-1631. 

Vol.  v.— 1631-1633. 

Vol.  VI.— 1633-1634. 

Vol.  VII.— 1634-1635. 

Vol.  VIII.— 1635. 

Vol.  IX.— 1635-1636. 

Vol.  X.— 1636-1637.  J 

Vol.  XI.— 1637. 


Vol 
Vol 


{Out  of 
I    print.) 


XIII.— 1638-1639. 
XIV.— 1639.      {Out  of 
print. ) 
XV.— 1639-1640. 
XVI.— 1640. 
XVII.— 1640-1641. 
Vol.  XVIIL— 1641-1643. 
Vol.       XIX.— 1644. 

XX.— 1644-1645. 

XXI.— 1645-1647. 

XXIL— 1648-1649. 


Vol. 

Vol. 
Vol. 


Vol 
Vol 
Vol 


Vol.  XXIII.- 


Addenda,1625- 
1649. 


Vol.     XII.— 1637-1638.     {Out  of 

print. ) 

Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Domestic  Series,  during  the  Common- 
wealth.    Edited  by  Mary  Anne  Everett  Green.     1875-1886. 


Vol.        1.-1649-1650. 
Vol.      II.— 1650. 
Vol.     III.— 1651. 
Vol.     IV.— 1651-1652. 
Vol.       v.— 1652-1652. 
Vol.     VI.— 1653-1654. 
Vol.   VII.— 1654. 
Calendar    of    State   Papers 


I  {Out  of 
I    print. ) 


Vol.   VIII.— 1655. 
Vol.       IX.— 1655-1656. 
Vol.         X.— 1656-1657. 

{Out  of  print.) 

Vol.       XI.— 1657-1658. 

Vol.     XII.— 1658-1659. 

Vol.  XIII.— 1659-1660. 

Committee   for  the   Advance   of 


Money.     1642-1656.     Edited  by  Mary  Anne  Everett  Green. 

Parts  I. -III.     1888. 
Calendar    op    State   Papers.     Committee  for  Compounding,  &c. 

1643-1660.     Edited    by    Mary    Anne    Everett    Green.     Parts 

I.-V.    1889-1892. 
Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Domestic  Series,   of  the  reign  of 

Charles  II.     Edited  by  Mary  Anne  Everett  Green  (Vol.  I.-X.)  ; 

and  by  F.  H.  B.  Daniell  (Vols.  XI.-XIX.).     1860-191 1. 


Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 


I.— 1660-1661. 
II.— 1661-1662. 
III.— 1663-1664. 
IV.— 1664-1665.  [    {Out  of 
print.) 


v.— 1665-1666. 
VI.— 1666-1667, 
VII.— 1667.  , 

Vol.  VIII.— 1667-1668. 
Vol.       IX.— 1668-1669. 
Vol.        X.— 1670,  and  Addenda, 
1660-1670. 
Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Domestic  Series,  of  the  reign  of 
William  III.     Edited  by  VV.  J.  Hardy.     1895-1908. 


Vol. 

XI. 

—1671. 

Vol. 

XII.- 

—1671-1672. 

Vol. 

XIII. 

—1672. 

Vol. 

XIV.- 

—1672-1673. 

Vol. 

XV. 

-1673. 

Vol. 

XVI.- 

-1673-1675. 

Vol. 

XVII. 

—1675-1676. 

Vol. 

XVIII.- 

—1676-1677. 

Vol. 

XIX.- 

-1677-1678. 

Vol.  I.— 1689-1690. 
Vol.  II.— 1690-1691. 
Vol.  III.— 1691-1692. 
Vol.  IV.— 1693. 


Vol.     v.— 1694-1695. 

Vol.  VI.— 1695,  July  to  Dec.  ; 

and  Addenda,  1689- 

1696. 


Calendar  ov  Home  Office  Papers  of  the  reign  of  George  III 
N'ols.  I.  and  II.  Edited  by  J.  Kedington.  1878-1879.  Vols,  ill 
luid  IV.     Edited  by  K.  A.  Roberts.      1881-1899 


Vol.     I.— 17G0  (25  ()ct.)-1765. 
Vol.   11.-1706-1769. 
Calhndar  of  Treasury  Books. 
19U4-1911. 
Vol.       I.— 1660-1667. 
Vol.      I  £.—  1667-1668. 
Vol.   111.  (in  two  parts)— 1669- 
1672. 
Calendar  of  Treasury  Papers. 
1889. 
Vol.       I.— 1557-1690.     (Out  of 

print.) 


Vol.     IL— 1697-1702 
Vol.  111.-1702-1707 
Calendar  op  Treasury  Books  and  Papers 
Litt.  D.     1897-1903. 


Vol.  111.— 1770-1772. 
Vol.  IV.— 1773-1775. 
Edited  by  W.  A.   Shaw,   Litt.  D. 

Vol.    IV.— 1072-1675. 
Vol.      V.    (in     two     parts) — 
1075-1679. 

Edited  by  J.  Redington.      1868- 

Vol.  IV.— 1708-1714. 
Vol.  v.— 1714-1719. 
Vol.  VI.— 1720-1728. 


Vol.  I.— 1729-1730. 
Vol.  11.-1731-1734. 
Vol.  III.— 1735-1738. 


Vol. 
Vol. 


.    Edited  by  W.  A.  Shaw, 

IV.— 1739-1741. 
v.— 1742-1745. 


Calendar  of  State  Papers  relating  to  Scotland.     Edited  by  M.  J. 
Thorpe.     1858. 
Vol.     I.— 1509-1589. 

Vol.  II.— 1589-1003  ;     an  Appendix,  1543-1592;     and  State  Papers 
relating  to  Mary  Queen  of  Scots,  1568-1587. 
Calendar  of  Documents  relating  to  Ireland,  in  the  Public  Record 
Office,  London.     Edited  by  H.  S.  Sweetman,  B.A.  (Vols.  l.-IV.)  ; 
andbyB..  S.  Sweetman  and  G.  F.  Handcock  (Vol.  V.).     1875-1886. 
Vol.       1.— 1171-1251.  Vol.  IV.— 1293-1301. 

Vol.     IL— 1252-1284.  Vol.     V.— 1302-1307. 

Vol.  III.— 1285-1292. 
Calendar   of  State  Papers  relating  to  Ireland,  Henry  VIII. — 
Elizabeth.      Edited   by   H.    C.   Hamilton   (Vols.  I.-V.);   and  by 
E.  G.  Atkinson  (Vols.  VI.-X.).     1860-1905. 
Vol.       1.-1509-1573.  ^Vol.       VI.— 1596-1597. 


Vol.     II.- 


1574-1585. 

(Out  of  print.) 
Vol.  111.-1586-1588. 
IV.— 1588-1592. 
v.— 1592-1596. 


Vol 
Vol 


Vol.  VII.— 1598-1599. 

Vol.  VIIL— 1599-1000. 

Vol.  IX.— 1600. 

Vol.  X.— 1600-1601. 


Calendar  of  State  Papers  relating  to  Ireland,  James  L,  preserved 
in  the  PubUc  Record  Office,  and  elsewliere.  Edited  by  the  Rev. 
C.  W.  Russell,  D.D.,  and  J.  P.  Prendergast.     1872-1880. 


Voh       L— 1603-1600. 

(Out  of  print.) 
Vol.     IL— 1606-1008. 


Vol.  111.-1008-1010. 
Vol.  IV.— 1611-1614. 
Vol.     v.— 1615-1625. 


Calendar  of  State   Papers  relating  to  Ireland,  Charles  I.  and 
CoMjroNWEALTH.     Edited  by  R.  P.  Mahaffy,  B.A.     1900-1903. 
Vol.       1.-1625-1632.  I         Vol.     IV.— Adventurers      for 

Vol.     IL— 1633-1647.  Land,  1642-1659. 

Vol.  III.— 1647-1660,  with 

Addenda,    1625-1660.  | 

Calendar  of  State  Papers  relating  to  Ireland,  Chables  II.     Edited 
by  R.  P.  Mahaffy,  B.A.,  1905-1911. 
Vol.     I.— 1000-1002.  [         Vol.    IV.— 1669-1670, 

Vol.  11.-1003-1005.  Addenda,  1025-1670. 

Vol.  IIL— 1000-1669.  I 

Calendar  of  the  Cabew  Papers,  preserved  in  the  Lambeth  Library. 
Edited  by  J.   S.   Brewer,   M.A.,   and  W    Bullen.     1867-1873. 
Vol.       I.— 1515-1574.  I         Vol.  IV.— 1601-1603. 

Vol.     IL— 1575-1588.  1         Vol.     V.— Book  of  Howth 

Vol.  IIL— 1589-1600.     (Out  of      •  Miscellaneous. 

pnnt.)      1         VoL    VI.— 1603-1624. 


with 


Calendar  of  Statk   Papkrs,   Colonial  SkbiI'JS.     Edited  by  W.   N. 

Sainsbuhy  (Vols.  l.-IX.)  ;     by  VV.  N.  8ainsuuby  and  tlie  Hon. 

J.   W.   FoKTiiscuii  {V'ol.   X.)  ;     by  tho  Hon.   J.   W.   Fobtkscue 

(Vols.    XI.-XVI.);     and   by    C.    Headlam,    M.A.    (Volb.    XVII. 

to  XIX.)     1860-1911. 
Vol.  I. — America  and  West  Indies,    1574-1660. 

Vol.        II. — East  Indies,  Cliina,  and  Japan,  1513-1616. 
Vol.      III.—         ,,  „  „         1617-1621.         {Out  of 

Vol.       IV.—         „  „  „         1622-1624.  '      print.) 

Vol.         V. — America    and    VV^^ost   Indies,      1661-1668./, 
Vol.       VI. — East  Indies,  China,  and  Persia,  1625-1629. 
Vol.     VII. — America  and  West  Indies,  1669-1674. 
Vol.  VIII.— East  Indies  and  Persia,  1630-1634. 
Vol.       IX. — America  and   West  Indies,    1675-1676,   and   Addenda, 
1574-1674. 
X. — America  and  West  Indies,  1677-1680. 


Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 


XI.— 

XII.— 

XIII.— 

XIV.— 

XV.— 

XVI.— 

X.WII.— 


Vol.  XVIII. 
Vol.  XIX. 


1681-1685. 
1685-1688. 
1689-1692. 
1693-1696. 
1696-1697. 
1697-1698. 
1699  ;  with  Addenda,  1621- 

1698. 
1700. 
1701. 


Calendar   of   State    Papers,   Foreign   Series,   preserved   in     the 
Public  Record  Office.     Edited  by  W.  B.  Turnbull.      1861. 
Edward  VI.,  1547-1553.         ;        Maky,   1553-1558. 
Calendar  of   State   Papers,   Foreign  Series,   op  the   reign   of 
Elizabeth,  preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office,   &c.     Edited 
by  the  Rev.  J.  Stevenson,  M.A.  (Vols.  I. -VII.)  ;    by  A.  J.  Crosby, 
M.A.  (Vols.  VIII.-XI.);  and  by  A.  J.  Butler,  M.A.     (Vols.  XII.- 
XVI.).      1863-1909. 
Vol.  I.— 1558-1559.  Vol.         X.— 1572-1574  (Ow«o/ 

Vol.        II.— 1559-1560. 


Vol.  XI.— 1575-1577. 
Vol.  XII.— 1577-1578. 
Vol.  XIII.— 1578-1579. 
Vol.  XIV.— 1579-1580. 
Vol.  XV.— 1591-1582. 
Vol.    XVI.— 1582. 


Vol.        II.— 1559-1560.  print.) 

Vol.      III.— 1560-1561.  Vol.       XI.— 1575-1577. 

Vol.       IV.— 1561-1562. 

Vol.         v.— 1562. 

Vol.       VI.— 1563. 

Vol.     VII.— 1564-1565. 

Vol.  VIII.— 1566-1568. 

Vol.  IX.— 1569-1571. 
Calendar  of  Documents  in  France,  illustrative  of  the  History  of 
Great  Britain  and  Ireland.  Vol.  I.  918-1206.  Edited  by  J.  H. 
Round,  M.A.  1899. 
Calendar  of  Letters,  Despatches,  and  State  Papers,  relating  to 
the  Negotiations  between  England  and  Spain,  preserved  at  Siman- 
cas  and  elsewhere.  Edited  by  G.  A.  Bergenroth  (Vols.  I.  and 
II.)  ;  by  Don  Pascual  de  Gayangos  (Vols.  III.  to  VI.)  ;  by 
Don  Pascual  de  Gayangos  and  M.  A.  S.  Hume  (Vol.  VII.)  ; 
and  by  M.  A.  S.  Hume  (Vol.  VIII.).      1862-1904. 


Vol.     I.— 1485-1509. 

{Out  of    print.) 
Vol.  11.-1509-1525. 
Supplement    to    Vol.    I.      and 

Vol.  II. 
Vol.  III.  Part     I.— 1525-1526. 
Vol.  III.  Part  II.— 1527-1529. 
Vol.    IV.  Part     I.— 1529-1530. 
Vol.    IV.  Part  IL— 1531-1533. 


Vol.  IV.  Part   II.— 1531-1533. 

continued. 

Vol.  V.  Part     I.— 1534-1535. 

Vol.  V.    Part    II.— 1536-1538. 

Vol.  VI.    Part     I.— 1538-1542. 

Vol.  VI.   Part   XL- 1542-1543. 

Vol.  VII.— 1544. 

Vol.  VIII.— 1545-1546. 


{Oui  of  print.)       I 
Calendar   of   Letters   and   State   Papers,   relating   to     English 
Affairs,    preserved    principally    in    the    Archives    of  Simancas. 
Edited  by  M.  A.  S.  Hume.     1892-1899. 
Vol.     I.— 1558-1567.  ,         Vol.  in.— 1580-1586. 

Vol.  II.— 1568-1579.  Vol.  IV.— 1687-1603. 


8 


Calendar  of  State  Papers  and  Manuscripts,  relating  to  English 
Affairs,  preserved  in  the  Archives  of  Venice,  &c.  Edited  by 
R.  13ro\vn  (Vols.  I. -VI.)  ;  by  K.  IJrowx  and  the  Right  Hon.  G. 
Cavendish-Bentinck  (Vol.  VII.)  ;  by  H.  F.  Brown  (Vols. 
VIIT.-XII.)  ;  and  by  A.  B.  Hinds,  M.A.  (Vols.  XIII.-XVI.). 
1864-1911. 


Vol. 


-1202-1509. 


(Out  of 
print. ) 


Vol.    II.— 1509-1519. 

Vol.  III.— 1520-1526. 

Vol.  IV.— 1527-1533. 

Vol.     v.— 1534-1554. 

Vol.  VI.— Part      I.— 1555-1556. 

Vol.  VI.— Part    II.— 1556-1557. 

Vol.  VI.— Part  III.— 1557-1558. 

Vol.   VII.— 1558-1580. 


Vol.  VIII.— 1581-1591. 

Vol.  IX.— 1592-1003. 

Vol.  X.— 1603-1607. 

Vol.  XI.— 1607-1610. 

Vol.  XII.— 1610-1613. 

Vol.  XIII.— 1613-1615. 

Vol.  XIV.— 1615-1617. 

Vol.  XV.— 1617-1619. 

Vol.  XVI.— 1019-1621. 


Calendar  of  entries  in  the  Papal  Registers,  illustrating  the  History 
of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland.  Edited  by  W.  H.  Bliss  (Vols.  I. 
and  II.);  by  W.  H.  Bliss  and  C.  Johnson,  M.A.  (Vol.  III.); 
by  W.  H.  Bliss  and  J.  A.  Twemlow,  B.A.  (Vols.  IV  and  V.) ; 
and  by  J.  A.  Twemlow,  B.A.  (Volg.  VI.-VIII.). 
Papal  Letters.     1893-1909. 


Vol.  I.— 1198-1304. 
Vol.  II.— 1305-1342. 
Vol.  III.— 1342-1362. 
Vol.    IV.— 1362-1404. 

Petitions  to  the  Pope. 
Vol.       I.— 1342-1419. 


Vol.  v.— 1396-1404. 

Vol.  VI.— 1404-1415. 

Vol.  VII.— 1417-1431. 

Vol.  VIII.— 1427-1447. 


1896. 


Guide  to  the  Various  Classes  of  Documents  in  the  Public 
Record  Office.  By  S.  R.  Scargill-Bird.  Third  Edition. 
1908.     Price  Is. 


Acts  of  the  Privy  Council 
J.  R.  Dasent,  M.A.      1890 
Vol,  I.— 1542-1547. 

Vol.  II.— 1547-1550. 
Vol.  III.— 1550-1552. 
Vol.  IV.— 1552-1554. 
Vol.  v.— 1554-1556. 

Vol.  VI.— 1556-1558. 
Vol.  VII.— 1558-1570. 
Vol.  VIII.— 1571-1575. 
Vol.  IX.— 1575-1577. 
Vol.  X.— 1577-1578. 
Vol.  XI.— 1578-1580. 
Vol.  XII.— 1580-1581. 
Vol.  XIII.— 1581-1582. 
Vol.  XIV.— 1586-1587. 
Vol,  XV.— 1587-1588. 
Vol,    XVI.— 1588. 


of  England, 
-1907.     Price 

Vol. 

Vol. 

Vol, 

Vol. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

Vol. 


New  Series.     Edited  by 
lOs.  each. 

XVII.— 1588-1589. 
XVIII.— 1589-1590. 
XIX.— 1590. 
XX.— 1590-1591. 
XXI.— 1591. 
XXII.— 1591-1592, 
XXIII.— 1592. 
XXIV.— 1592-1593. 
XXV.— 1595-1596. 
XXVI.— 1596-1597, 
XXVII.— 1597. 
XXVIII.— 1597-1598. 
XXIX.— 1598-1599. 
XXX.— 1599-1600. 
XXXI.— 1600-1601. 
XXXII.— 1601-1604, 


Acts  of  the  Privy  Council  of  England.  Colonial  Series. 
Edited  by  W.  L.  Grant,  M.A.,  and  J.  Munro,  M.A.  (Vols.  I.-III.), 
and  by  J.  Munro,  M.A.  (Vol.  IV.).      1909-1911.     Price  lOs.  each. 


Vol.    I.— 1613-1680. 
Vol.  II.— 1680-1720. 


Vol.  III.— 1720-1745. 
Vol.  IV.— 1745-1766. 


Catalogue  of  Manuscripts  and  other  objects  in  the  Museum  of 
the  Public  Record  Office.  By  Sir  H.  C.  Maxwell  Lyte, 
K.C.B,     Sixth  Edition.     1909.     Price   6d. 


9 

In  the  Press. 

Calendar  of  the  Close  Rolls,  Supplementary,  Welsh  Rolls  and 
Liberate  Rolls. 

Calendar   of  the   Close   Rolls   of   the   reign   of   Edward   III. 
Vols.  XIII.  and  XIV. 

Calendar  of  the  Fine  Rolls.     Vols.  II.  and  ill.,  Edward  II. 

Calendar   of  the   Patent   Rolls   or  the   reign   of   Henry   III. 
Vol.  VI. 

Calendar  of  the   Patent  Rolls  of  the  reign  of  Edward  III. 
Vols.  XL,  XII..  and  XIII. 

Calendar   of   the    Patent   Rolls   of   the   reign   of     Henry    V. 
Vol.  II. 

Calendar  of  the  Charter  Rolls.     Vols.  IV.  and  V. 

Calendar     of     Inquisitions     Post    Morte.m.         Vol.     III.,     20-28 
Edward  I.     Vol.  VII L,  Edward  IIL 

Calendar  OF  Inquisitions  Postmortem.   Second  Series.  Henry  VIL 
Vol.  II. 

Calendar   of    State    Papers    in  the  Archives  at  Rome   illustrating 
the  History  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland.     Vol.  I. 

Calendar  of  State  Papers,  relating  to  English  Affairs,  preserved 
in  the  Ai'chives  of  Venice,  &c.     Vols.  XVII.  and  XVIII. 

Calendar  op  State  Papers,  relating  to  English  Affairs,  preserved 
in  the  Archives  of  Milan.     (1 5th  ccntuiy.) 

Calendar  of  entries  in  the  Papal  Registers,  illustrating  the  History 
of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland.     Papal  Letters.     Vols.  IX.  and  X. 

Calendar  of  State   Papers,  Domestic  Series,  of  the  reign  of 
William  III.     Vol.   VII. 

Calendar  of  Treasury  Books.     Vols.  VI.  and  Vll. 

Calentd-vr    of    Letters    and     Papers,    Foreign    and    Domestic, 
Henry  VIII.     Vol.  I.     1509-151-1:.     New  and  revised  edition. 

Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Foreign  Series,  Elizabeth.    Vols.  XVII. 
and  XVIII. 

Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Domestic  Series,   of  the  reign  of 
Charles  II.     Vol.  XX. 

Calendar  op  State    Papers,  Ireland,  Henry  Vlll. — Elizabeth. 
Vol.  XI. 

Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Colonial  Series.     Vol.  XX. 

Catalogue  of  Ancient  Deeds.     Vol.  VI. 

Calendar  of  Letters,  Despatches,  and  State  Papers,  relating 
to  the  Negotiations  between  England  and  Spain.     Vol.  IX. 

Inquisitions  and  Assessments  relating  to  Feudal  Aids.     Vol.  VI. 

Calendar  of  Miscellaneous  Inquisitions  (Chancery).     Henry  III. 

Acts  of  the  Privy  Council  of  England.    Colonial  Series.    Vol.  V. 


hi  Progress 

Calendar     of     Inquisitions     Post     Mortem.      Edward     I.     and 
Edward  III. 


10 

PUBLIC    KECORD    OFFICE. 


LISTS   AND   INDEXES. 

The  object  of  these  publications  is  to  make  the  contents  of  the 
Pubhc  Record  Office  more  easily  available.  In  conjunction  with 
the  Calendars,  they  will,  in  course  of  time,  form  a  catalogue  of  the 
National  Archives,  as  explained  in  the  Fifty-first  Report  of  the 
Deputy  Keeper  of  the  Records  (page  10). 


No.  I.  Index  of  Ancient  Petitions  of  the  Chancery  and  the 
Exchequer.      1892.     9s.  (id. 

No.  II.  List  and  Index  of  Declabkd  Accounts  from  the  Pipe  Office 
and  the  Audit  Office.      1893.      15a-. 

No.  III.  List  of  volumes  of  State  Papers  (Great  Britain  and 
Ireland).  Part  I.  1547-1760.  1894.  6s.  6d.  (Ntw  Edition  in 
the  Predd.) 

No.  IV.     List  of  Plea  Rolls.     New  and  revised  Edition.     1910.     7s. 

No.  V.  List  of  Ministers'  Accounts  preserved  in  the  Public  Record 
Office.     Part  I.     1894.      16s. 

No.  VI.  List  and  Index  of  Court  Rolls  preserved  in  the  Public 
Record  Office.     Part  I.     1896.      15s.     {Out  of  print.) 

No.  VII.  Index  of  Chancery  Proceedings,  Series  II.  Vol.  I. 
1558-1579.      1896.      14s. 

No.  VIII.  List  of  Ministers'  Accounts.  Appendix,  Corrigenda, 
and  Index  to  Part  I.      1897.     3s. 

No.  IX.  List  of  Sheriffs  from  the  earliest  times  to  A.D.  1831.  1898. 
9s.     (Out  of  print.) 

No.  X.  List  of  proceedings  with  regard  to  Charitable  Uses.  1899. 
6s. 

No.  XI.  List  of  Foreign  Accounts  enrolled  on  the  Great  Rolls  of 
the  Exchequer.      1900.      10«. 

No.  XII.  List  of  Early  Chancery  Proceedings.  Vol.  I.  1901. 
12s. 

No.  XIII.  List  of  Star-Chamber  Proceedings.  Vol.  I.  1485- 
1558.     1901.      10s. 

No.  XIV.     List  of  Records  of  the  Duchy  of  Lancaster.     1901.     5s. 

No.  XV.  List  of  Ancient  Correspondence  of  the  Chancery  and 
Exchequer.     1902.     12s. 

No.  XVI.  List  of  Early  Chancery  Proceedings.  Vol.  II.  1903. 
17s. 

No.  XVII.  List  of  Inquisitions  ad  Quod  Damnum.  Part  I.  1904. 
13s. 

No.  XVIII.     List  of  Admiralty  Records.     Vol.  I.     1904.     8s. 

No.  XIX.     List  of  State  Papers,  Foreign,  1577-1581.     1904.     4s. 

No.  XX.  List  of  Early  Chancery  Proceedings.  Vol.  III.  1906. 
15*. 

No.  XXI.  List  of  Proceedings  in  the  Court  of  Requests.  Vol.  I. 
1906.     15s. 

No.  XXII.  List  of  Inquisitions  ad  quod  Damnum.  Part  II. 
1906.     14s. 

No.  XXIII.  Index  of  Inquisitions.  Vol.  I.  Henry  VIII.  to 
Philip  and  Mary.     1907.     10s. 

No.  XXIV.  Index  of  Chancery  Proceedings.  Series  II.  Vol.  II. 
1579-1621.     1908.     10s. 


11 

No.   XXV.     List  of  Rentals   and   Surveys,   and   other  Analogous 
Documents.      1908.      14a. 

No.  XXVI.     Index  of  Inquisitions.     Vol.  II.  Elizabeth.     19U8.     I2s. 

No.  XXVII.     List  of  Chanceky  Rolls.      1908.      \0s. 

No.  XXVIII.     List  of  War  Office  Records.     Vol.  I.     1908.     8^.  6rf. 

No.    XXIX.     List    of    Early    Chancery    Proceedings.     Vol.    IV. 
1908.     15s. 

No.  XXX.     Index  of  Chancery  Proceedings.     Series  II.     Vol.  111. 
1621-1660.      1909.      \2s. 

No.    XXXI.     Index    of    Inquisitions.     Vol.    III.     James    I.     1909. 
I2s. 

No.  XXXII.      Index    of    Placita  de   Banco   (Plea   Rolls,    Common 
Pleas),  1327-1328:— 

Part   I.     Bedford  to  Norfolk.     1910.      15s. 

Part   II.      Xorthampton    to    York,    Divers    Counties,    and    Mis- 
cellaneous.     1910.      lis.  Qd. 

No.   XXXIII.     Index  of  Inquisitions.     Vol.   IV.     Charles  I.  and 
later.     With  Appendices.     1910.     14s. 

No.  XXXIV.     List  of  Ministers'  Accounts.     Part  II.      1910.     10s. 


In  the  Press. 

Early  Chancery  Proceedings.     Vol.   V. 

Exchequer  Accounts. 

Colonial  Office  Records. 

Paiatinate  of  Chester. 

Speoiai.  Commissions  and  Returns  in  the  Exchequer. 


In  Progress. 

List  of  Ancient  Accounts. 

Foreign  Office  Records,  1781  to  1837. 

Treasury  Records  prior  to  1837. 


12 


THE    CHRONICLES    AND    MEMORIALS 

OF    GREAT    BRITAIN    AND    IRELAND  DURING 

THE    MIDDLE  AGES. 


Royal  8vo.     Price   lOs.  each  Volume  or  Part. 


1.  The  Cuhonicle  of  England,  by  John  Capgrave.     Edited  by  the 

Rev.  F.  C.  HiXGESTOVf,  M.A.    'l858. 

2.  Chhonicox  Monasterh  de  Abingdon.     Vols.  I.  and  II.     Edited 

by  the  Rev.  J.  Stephenson,  M.A.      1858. 

3.  Lives    of    Edward    i-he    Confessor.     I. — La    Estoire    de     Seint 

Aedward  le  Rei.  II. — Vita  Beati  Edvardi  Regis  et  Confessoris. 
III. — Vita  ^duuardi  Regis  qui  apud  Westmonasterium  requiescit. 
Edited  by  H.  R.  Luard,  M.A.      1858. 

4.  Monumenta  Franciscana. 

Vol.  I. — Thomas  de  Eccleston  de  Adventu  Fratrum  Minorum  in 
Angliam.  Ada)  de  IMarisco  Epistolae.  Registrum  Fratrum 
Minorum  Londonije.     Edited  by  J.  S.  Brewer,  M.A.      1858. 

Vol.    II. — De    Adventu    Minorum  ;      re-edited    with    additions. 
Chronicle  of  the  Grey  Friars.     The  ancient  English  version  of 
the  Rule  of  St.  Francis.     Abbreviatio  Statutorum,   1451,  &c. 
Edited  by  R.  Howlett.      1882. 

5.  Fasciculi  Zizaniorum  Magistri  Johannis  Wyclif  cum  Tritico. 

Ascribed  to  Thomas  Netter,  of  Walden,  Provincial  of  the 
Carmelite  Order  in  England,  and  Confessor  to  I'ung  Henry  the 
Fifth.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  W.  Shirley,  M.A.     1858. 

G.  The  Buik  of  the  Croniclis  of  Scotland  ;  or,  a  Metrical  Version 
of  the  History  of  Hector  Boece  ;  by  William  Stewart.  Vols. 
I.-III.     Edited  by  W.  B.  Tlt?nbull.      1858. 

7.  Johannis  Capgrave  Liber  de  Illustribus  Henricis.     Edited  by 

the  Rev.  F.  C.  Hingeston,  M.A.     1858. 

8.  HiSTORiA  MoNASTERii  S.  AuGusTiNi  Cantuariensis,  by  Thomas 

of  Elbiham,  formerly  Monk  and  Treasurer  of  that  Foundation. 
Edited  by  C.  Hardwick,  M.A.     1858. 

9.  EuLOGiUM    (HiSTORiARUM    siVE   Temporis)  :     Chronicon   ab  Orbe 

condito  usque  ad  Annum  Domini  1366  ;  a  monacho  quodam 
Malmesbiriensi  exaratum.  Vols.  I. -HI.  Edited  by  F.  S.  Haydon, 
B.A.      1858-1863. 

10.  Memorials  of  Henry  the  Seventh  ;   Bernard!  Andreae  Tholosatis 

Vita  Regis  Henrici  Septimi ;  necnon  alia  qusedam  ad  eundem 
Regem  Spectantia.     Edited  by  J.  Gairdner.      1858. 

11.  Memorials    of    Henry    the    Fifth.     I. — Vita    Henrici    Quinti, 

Roberto  Redmanno  auctore.  II. — Versus  Rhytlimici  in  laudem 
Regis  Henrici  Quinti.  III. — Elmliaini  Liber  Metrious  de  Henrico 
V.     Edited  by  C.  A.  Cole.     1858. 


13 

2.  MtTXTMENTA  GlLDHALLiE  LOXDON^EKSIS  ;  Lib(>r  Albus,  Libor 
Custumarum,  et  Liber  Horn,  in  archivis  Gildhallai  asservati. 
Edited  by  H.  T.  Riley,  M.A.     1859-18G2. 

Vol.  I.,  Libor  Albus. 

Vol.  II.  (in  Two  Parts),  Liber  Custumarum. 

Vol.  III.,  Translation  of  tho  Anglo-Norman  Passages  in   Liber 
Alljus,    Glossaries,    Appendices,    and    Index. 

13.  Chronica   Johannis   de   Oxenedes.     Edited   by   Sir   H.    Ellis, 

K.H.      1859. 

14.  A    COLLECTIOK    OF     POLITICAL     POEMS     AN^D     SOXOS     RELATIXG     TO 

English  History,  from  the  accession  of  Edwahh  TIL  to  the 
REIQX  OF  Hen-ry  VIII.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited  by  T.  Wright, 
M.A.      1859-18G1. 

15.  The  "  Opus  Tertium,"   "  Opcjs  Minus,"   &c.  of  Roger  Bacon. 

Edited  by  J.  S.  Brewer,  M.A.     1859. 

16.  Bartholom^ei    de    Cotton,    monachi    Norwicensis,    Historia 

Anglicana,  449-1298  ;  necnon  ejusdem  Liber  de  Archiopiscopis 
et  Episcopis  Anglise.     Edited  by  H.  R.  Luard,  M.A.      1859. 

17.  Brut  y  Tywysogion  ;     or.  The  Chronicle  of  the  Princes  of  Wales. 

Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  Williams  ab  Ithel,  M.A.      1860. 

18.  A  Collection  of  Royal  and  Historical  Lettfrs  during  the 

Reign  of  Hknry  IV.  Vol.  I.  1399-1404.  Edited  by  the  Rev. 
F.  C.   Hinghston,  M.A.     18G0. 

19.  The  Repressor  of  over  much  Blaming  of  the  Clergy.     Bj'^ 

Reginald  Pecock,  sometime  Bisliop  of  Chichester.  Vols.  1. 
and  II.     Edited  by  the  Rov.  C.  Babington,  B.D.      1860. 

20.  Annales  Cambri.e.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  Williams  ab  Ithel, 

M.A.      1860. 

21.  The  Works  of  Giraldus  Cambrensis.     Vols.  I. -IV.     Edited  by 

the  Rev.  J.  S.  Brewer.  IM.A.  ;  Vols.  V.-VII.  (Vol.  V.  out  of 
print).  Edited  bi/  the  Rev.  J.  F.  Dimock,  M.A.  ;  Vol.  VIII. 
Edited  by  G.  F.  W.arner,  M.A.      1861-1891. 

22.  Letters  and  Papers  illustrative  of  the  Wars  of  the  English 

in  France  during  the  Reign  of  Henry  the  Sixth,  Kino  of 
England.  Vol.  I.,  and  Vol.  II.  (in  Two  Parts).  Edited  by  the 
Rev.   J.   Stevenson,   M.A.     1861-1864. 

23.  The    Anglo-Saxon    Chronicle,    according    to    the    several 

Original  Authorities.  Vol.  I.,  Original  Texts.  Vol.  II., 
Translation.     Edited  and  translated  by  B.  Thorpe.      1861. 

24.  Letters  and  Papers  illustrative  of  the  reigns  of  Richard 

III.  and  Henry  VII.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited  by  J.  Gairdner. 
1861-1863. 

25.  Letters   of  Bishop  Grosseteste.     Edited  by  the  Rev.   H.   R. 

Luard,  M.A.     1861. 

26.  Descriptive     Catalogue     of     Materials     relating     to     the 

History  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland,  to  the  end  of  the 
reign  of  Hentiy  VII.  Vol.  I.  (in  Two  Parts),  Anterior  to  the 
Norman  Invasion  ;  Vol.  II.,  1066-1200  ;  Vol.  III..  1200-1327. 
Edited   by    Sir    T.    D.    Hardy,    D.C.L.     1862-1871. 


14 

27.  Royal  and   othkr  Historical,  Lettrrs   illustrative  of  the 

KEioN-  OF  Hknrv  III.  Vol.1.  121G-1235.  Vol.  II.  1236-1272. 
Selected  and  edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  W.  Shirley,  D.D       1862-1866 

28.  Chronica  Moxasterii  S.  Albani.    Edited  by  H.  T.  Riley,  M.A- 

1863-1876. 

1.  Thom^   Walsingham   Historia   Anqlicana.     Vol.   I.,    1272- 

1381  ;     Vol.  II.,  1381-1422. 

2.  WiLLELMI    RiSHANQER    CHRONICA    ET    AnNALES,     1259-1307. 

3.  JOHANNIS      DE      TrOKELOWK      ET      HeNRICI      DE      BlANEFORDE 

Chronica  ET  Annales  1259-1296;     1307-1324;     1392-1406. 

4.  Gesta  Abbatum  Monasterii  S.  Albani,  a  Thoma  Walsing- 

ham,    REGNANTE     RiCARDO     SeCUNDO,     EJUSDEM     EcCLESIiS 

Pr.^centore,  compilata.  Vol.  I.,  793-1290  ;  Vol.  II., 
1290-1349;     Vol.  III.,  1349-1411. 

5.  Johannis  Amundesham,  monachi  Monastebu  S.  Albani,  ut 

videtur,  Annales  ;    Vols.  I.  and  II. 

6.  Registra  quorundam  Abbatum  Monasterii  S.  Albani,  Qin 

S.5:cuLO  xv^o  Floruere.  Vol.  I.,  Registrum  Abbati^ 
Johannis  Whethamstede,  Abbatis  Monasterii  Saxcti 
Albani,  iterum  suscept.b  ;  Roberto  Blakeney,  capellano, 
quondam  adscbiptutnt.  Vol.  II.,  Registra  Johannis 
Whethamstede,  Willelmi  Albon,  et  Willelmi  Waling- 
FORDE,  Abbatum  Monasterii  Sancti  Albani,  cum  Appen- 
DicE  continente  quasdam  epistolas  a  Johanne  Whetham- 
stede conscbiptas. 

7.  Ypodigma    Neustri^    a    Thoma    Walsingham,     quondam 

monacho  Monasterii  S.  Albani,  conscriptum. 

29.  Chronicon      Abbatije     de     Evesham,     auctoribus     Dominico 

Priore  Eveshami^  et  Thoma  de  Marleberge  Abbate,  a  fun- 
datione  ad  annum  1213,  una  cum  continuations  ad  annum 
1418.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  D.  Macray.      1863. 

30.  RicARDi    de    Cirencestria    Speculum   Historiale    de    Gestis 

Regum  Angli,^:.  Vol.  I.,  447-871.  Vol.  II.,  872-1066.  Edited 
by  J.  E.  B.  Mayor,  M.A.      1863-1869. 

31.  Year  Books  of  the  reigns  of  Edward  the  First  and  Edward 

THE  Third.  Years  20-21,  21-22  [Out  of  Print),  30-31,  32-33,  and 
3.3-35  Edw.  I.  ;  and  11-12  Edw.  III.  Edited  and  translated  by 
A.  J.  HoRwooD.  Years  12-13,  13-14,  14,  14-15,  15,  16  {in  two 
parts),  17,  17-18,  18,  18-19,  19,  and  20  (ii  iwj  parts),  Edward  III. 
Edited  and  translated  by  L.  O.  Pike,  M.A.      1863-1911. 

32.  Narratives  of  the  Expulsion  of  the  English  from  Normandy, 

1449-1450. — Robertus  Blondelli  de  Reductione  Normannise  :  Le 
Recouvrement  de  Normendie,  par  Berry,  Herault  du  Roy  :  Con- 
ferences between  tlie  Ambassadors  of  France  and  England. 
Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  Stevenson,  M.A.     1863. 

33.  Historia  et  Cartularium  Monasterii  S.  Petri  Gloucestri^. 

Vols.  I.-III.     Edited  by  W.  H.  Hart.      1863-1867. 

34.  Alexandri    Neckam    de    Naturis    Rerum    libri    duo  ;      with 

Xeckam's  Poem,  De  Laudibus  Divin-s  Sapientle.  Edited  by 
T.  Wright,  M.A.     1863. 


15 

35.  Lfechdoms,  WonTCTTXNixG,  AND  Starcraft  of  Early  Ekgland  ; 

being  a  Collection  of  Documents  illustrating  the  History  of 
Science  in  this  Country  before  the  Norman  Conquest.  Vols. 
I.-III.  (Vol.  ITT.  Out  of  print.)  Collected  and  edited  by  the 
Rev.  O.  Cockayne,  M.A.     18G4-1866. 

36.  Annales  Monastici.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  H.  R.  Luard,  M.A. 

1864-1869. 

Vol.  1.  Annales  de  Margan,  1066-1232  ;  Annales  dej  Theokes- 
beria,  1066-1263;     Annales  de  Burton,  1004-1263. 

Vol.  II.  Annales  Monasterii  de  Wintonia,  519-1277  ;  Annales 
Monastcrii  de  Waverleia,    1-1291. 

Vol.  III.  Annales  Prioratus  de  Dunstaplia,  1-1297.  Annales 
Monasterii  de  Bermundesoia,   1042-1432. 

Vol.  IV.  Annales  Monasterii  de  Oseneia,  1016-1347  ;  Chronicon 
vulgo  dictum  Clironicon  Thomse  Wykes,  1066-1289  ;  Annales 
Prioratus  de  Wigornia,  1-1377.     {Out  of  print.) 

Vol.  V.     Index  and  Glossary. 

37.  Magna  Vita  S.  Hugonis  Episcopi  Lincolniensis.     Edited  by  the 

Rev.  J.  F.  DiMOCK,  M.A.     1864. 

38.  Chronicles  and   Memorials  of  the   Reign  of  Richard  the 

First.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  Stubbs,  M.A.      1864-1865. 
Vol.  I.     Itinerarium  Peregrinorum  et  Gesta  Regis  Ricardi. 
Vol.  II.     EpiSTOLiE  Cantuarienses  ;    the  Letters  of  the  Prior 
and  Convent  of  Christ  Church,  Canterbury  ;     1187  to  1199. 

39.  Recueil  des  Croniques  et  anchiennes  Istories  de  la  Grant 

Bretaigne  a  present  nomme  Engleterre,  par  Jehan  de 
Waurin.  Vol.  I..  Albina  to  688.  Vol.  II.,  1399-1422.  Vol. 
III.,  1422-1431.  Edited  by  W.  Hardy.  1864-1879  ;  Vol.  IV., 
1431-1447.  Vol.  v.,  1447-1471.  Edited  by  Sir  W.  Hardy  and 
E.  L.  C.  p.  Hardy.     1884-1891. 

40.  A  Collection  of  the  Chronicles  and  Ancient  Histories  of 

Great  Britain,  now  called  England,  by  John  de  Waurin. 
Vol.  I.,  Albina  to  688.  Vol.  II.,  1399-1422.  Vol.  III.,  1422- 
1431.  (Translations  of  the  preceding  Vols.  I.,  IT.,  and  III. 
Edited  and  translated  by  Sir  W.  Hardy  and  E.  L.  C.  P.  Hardy. 
1864-1891. 

41.  PoLYCHRONicoN  Rantjlphi  Higden,  with  Trevisa's  Translation. 

Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  C.  Babington,  B.D.  ;  Vols. 
III.-IX.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  R.  Lumby,  D.D.     1865-1886. 

42.  Le  Livere  de  Reis  de  Brittanie  e  Le  Livere  de  Reis    de 

Engletere.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  Glover,  M.A.      1865. 

43.  Chronica  Monasterii  de  Melsa  ab  anno  1150  usque  ad  ANNtrai 

1406.  Vols.  I.-III.     Edited  by  E.  A.  Bond.     1866-1868. 

44.  Matth^i    Pabisiensis    Historia    Anglorum,    sive    ut    vttlgo 

DiciTUR  Historia  Minor.  Vols.  I.-III.  1067-1253.  Edited  by 
Sir  F.  Madden.     1866-1869. 

45.  LiBEB   MONASTERH   DE   HyDA  :       A    CHRONICLE    AND    ChaRTULARY 

OP  Hyde  Abbey,  Winchester,  455-1023.  Edited  by  E.  Edwards. 
1866. 


16 

46.  Chron-icov  ScoTORtTM.     A  Chronicle  of  Irisfi  ApFAnis,   from 

the  earliest  times  to  1135;  and  Supplemevt,  containinj;  the 
events  from  1141  to  1150.  Edited,  with  Translation,  by  W.  M. 
Hexne.ssy.      186G. 

47.  The  Chronicle  of  Pierre  de  Langtoft  in  Frexch  Verse,  from 

THE  earliest  PERIOD  TO  THE  DEATH  OF  EdwaRD  I.       Vols.  I    and 

II.  Edited  by  T.  Wright,  M.A.      1 806- 1868. 

48.  The  War  of  the  Gaedhil  with  the  Gaill,  or  The  Ivvasioxs  of 

Ireland  by  the  Danes  and  other  Xorsemen.  Edited,  with  a 
Translation,  by  the  Rev.  J.  H.  Todd,  D.D.      1867. 

49.  Gesta  Regis  Henrici  Secundi  Benedicti  Abbatis.     Chronicle 

of  THE  Reigns  op  Henry  II.  and  Richard  I.,  1169-1192,  known 
under  the  name  of  Benedict  of  Peterborough.  Vols.  I.  and  II. 
(Vol.  II.  Out  of  print.)  Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  Stubbs,  M.A. 
18G7. 

50.  Munimenta  Academica,  or  Documents  illustrative  of  Acade- 

siiCAL  Life  and  Studies  at  Oxford  (in  Two  Parts).  Edited  by 
the  Rev.  H.  Anstey,  M.A.      1868. 

51.  Chronica  Magistri  Rogeri  de  Houedene.     Vols.  I.-IV.     Edited 

by  the  Rev.  W.  Stubbs,  M.A.      1868-1871. 

52.  WiLLKLMi    Malhesbiriensis    Monachi    de  Gestis  Pontificum 

Anglorum  Libri  Quinque.  Edited  by  N.  E.  S.  A.  Hamilton. 
1870. 

53.  Historic  and  Municipal  Documents  of  Ireland,   from  the 

archives  of  the  City  of  Dublin,  &c.  1172-1320.  Edited  by 
J.  T.  Gilbert.      1870. 

54.  The   Annals   of   Loch   Ce.     A   Chronicle   of  Irish  Affairs, 

1014-1590.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited,  loith  a  Translation,  by 
W.  M.  Hennessy.      1871.     {Out  of  print.) 

55.  Monumenta  Juridica.     The  Black  Book  of  the  Ad^hralty, 

with  Appendices.  Vols.  I.-IV.  (Vols.  I.  and  IV.  Out  of  print.) 
Edited  by  Sir  T.  Twiss,  Q.C.,  D.C.L.     1871-1876. 

56.  Memorials  of  the  reign  of  Henry  VI.  : — Official  Correspon- 

dence OF  Thomas  Bekynton,  Secretary  to  Henry  VI.,  and 
Bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  G.  Williams, 
B.D.     Vols.  I.  and  II.      1872. 

57.  Matth.ei  Parisiensis,  monachi  Sancti  Albani,  Chronica  Majora 

Vol.  I.     The  Creation  to  A.D.  1066.     Vol.  II.  1067  to  1216.     Vol. 

III.  1216  to  1239.  {Out  of  print.)  VoL  IV.  1240  to  1247.  VoL  V. 
1248  to  1259.  {Out  of  print.)  Vol.  VI.  Additamenta.  Vol. 
VII.  Index.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  H.  R.  Luard,  D.D.      1872-1884. 

58.  Memoriale  Fratris  Walteri  de  Coventria. — The  Historical 

Collections  of  Walter  of  Coventry.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited 
by  the  Rev.  W.  Stubbs,  M.A.     1872-1873. 

59.  The  Anglo-Latin  Satirical  Poets  and  Epigrammatists  of  the 

Twelfth  Century.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  Collected  and  edited  by 
T.  Wright,  M.A.     1872.     (Vol.  II.  Out  of  print.) 


17 

60.  Materials  for  a  History  of  the  Reion  of  Hf.nry  VII.,  from 

ORIGINAL  Documents  preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office. 
Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  Campbell,  M.A.  187.1- 
1877. 

61.  Historical  Papers  and  Letters  from  the  Northern  Regis- 

ters.    Edited  bij  the  Rev.  J.  Raine,  M.A.      187.3. 

62.  Registrum  Palatinitm  Dunelmense.     The  Register  of  Richard 
.    DE  Kellawe,  Lord  Palatine  and  Bishop  of  Durham  ;     1311- 

1316.  Vols.  I.-IV.  Edited  by  Sir  T.  D.  Hardy,  D.C.L.  187.•^ 
1878. 

63.  Memorials    of    St.    Dunstan,    Archbishop    of    Canterbury. 

Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  Stubbs,  M.A.      1874.      (Out  of  print.) 

64.  Chronicon  .\ngli.t;,  ab  anno  domini  1328  usque  ad  annum  1388, 

Auctore  Monacho  Qitodam  Sancti  Albani.  Edited  by  E.  M. 
Thompson.     1874. 

65.  Thomas  Saga  Erkibyskups.     A  Life  of  Archbishop  Thomas 

Becket,  in  Icelandic.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited,  \cith  English 
Translation,  Notes,  and  Glossary,  by  M.  Eirikr  Magnusson,  M.A. 
1875-1883. 

66.  Radulphi  de  Coggeshall  Chronicon  Anglicanum.     Edited  by 

the  Rev.  J.  Stevenson,  M.A.     1875. 

67.  Materials  for  the  History  of  Thomas  Becket,  Archbishop  of 

Canterbury.  Vols.  I. -VI.  Edited  by  tlie  Rev.  J.  C.  Robertson, 
M.A.      1875-1883  ;     Vol.  VII.     Edited  by  J.  B.  Sheppard,  LL.D. 

188.5. 

68.  Radulfi  de  Diceto,  Decani  Luxdoniensis,  Opera  Historica. 

The  Historical  Works  of  Master  Ralph  de  Diceto,  Dean 
OF  London.  Vols.  I.  and  IT.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  Stubbs, 
M.A.      1876. 

69.  Roll  of  the  Proceedings  of  the  King's  Council  in  Ireland, 

for  a  portion  of  the  16th  year  of  the  reign  of  Rich.^rd  II. 
1392-93.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  Graves,  B.A.      1877. 

70.  Henrici  de  Bracton  de  Legibus  et  Consuetudinibus  Angli^e 

LiBRi  Quinque  in  varios  tractatus  distincti.  Vols.  I.-VT. 
(Vols.  II.-IV.     Out  of  print.)     Edited  by  Sir  T.  Twiss,  Q.C.,  D.C.L. 

1878-1883. 

71.  The  Historians  of  the  Church  of  York  .\nd  its  Archbishops. 

Vols.  I.-III.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  Raine,  M.A.      1879-1894. 

72.  Registrum  Malmesburiense.     The  Register  of  Malmesbury 

Abbf.y,  preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office.  Vols.  I. 
and  II.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  S.  Brewer,  M.A.,  and  C.  T. 
Martin,  B.A.      1879-1880. 

73.  Historical  works  of  Gervase  of  Canterbury.     Vols.  I.  and  II. 

Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  Stubbs,  D.D.      1879-1880. 

74.  Henrici  Archidiaconi  Huntendunensis  Historia  Angloriim. 

The  History  of  the  English,  by  Henry,  Archdeacon  of 
Huntingdon,  from  a.d.  55  to  a.d.  1154,  in  Eight  Books.  Edited 
by  T.  Arnold,  M.A.     1879. 

B 


18 

75.  The  Htstotiicat.  Works  of  Symeon  of  Dutiham.     Vols.  I.  and  II. 
Edited  by  T.  AuNOi.n,  M;A.      1882-1885. 

7fi.  Chkonicle  of  the  Reigns  of  Edward  I.  and  Edward  II.     Vols. 
I.  and  II.     FAited  h,j  tlie  Kev.  W.  Stubbs,  D.D.      1882-1883. 

77.  Heotstrum   Epistolarum  Fratris  Johannis   Peckham,   Archi- 

EPiscopi  Cantuariexsis.  Vols.  I. -III.  Edited  by  C.  T.  Martin, 
B.A.      1882-1880. 

78.  Register  of  S.  Osmund.     Vols.  I.  and  II.     Edited  by  the  Rev. 

W.  H.  Rich  Jones,  M.A.      1883-1884. 

79.  Chartulary  of  the  Abbey  of  Ramsey.     Vols.  I. -III.     Edited 

by  W.  H.  Hart,  and  the  Rev.  P.  A.  Lyons.      1884-1893. 

80.  Chartularies  of  St.  Mary's  .\bbey,  Dublin,  with  the  Register 

OF  ITS  house  at  Dunbrody,  county  of  Wexford,  and  Annals 
OF  Ireland,  1162-1370.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited  by  J.  T. 
Gilbert.     1884-1885. 

81.  Eadmeri  Historia  Novorum  in  Anglia  et  opuscula  duo  de 

vita  Sanctt  Ansi:lmi  et  quibusdam  miraculis  ejus.  Edited  by 
tlie  Rev.  M.  Rule,  M.A.      1884. 

82.  Chronicles  of  the  Reigns  of  Stephen,  Henry  IT.,  and  Richard 

I.     Vols.  T.-IV.     FAited  by  R.   Howlett.      1884-1889. 

83.  Chronicle  of  the  Abbey  of  Ramsey.     Edited  bij  the  Rev.  W.  D. 

Macray,  M.A.      1886. 

84.  Chronica   Rogeri   de   Wendover,   sive   Flores   Historiarum. 

Vols.  I.-ITI.     Edited  by  H.  G.  Hewlett.      1886-1889. 

85.  The   Letter   Books   of   the   Monastery   of   Christ   Church, 

Canterbury.  Vols.  I. -III.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  B.  Sheppard, 
LL.D.      1887-1889. 

86.  The  Metrical  Chronicle  of  Robert  of  Gloucester.     Edited 

by  W.  A.  Wright,  M.A.     Parts  I.  and  II.       1887. 

87.  Chronicle  of  Robert  of  Brunne.     Edited  by  F.  J.  Furnivall, 

M.A.     Parts  I.   and  II.      1887. 

88.  Icelandic  Sagas  and  other  Historical  Documents  relating  to 

the  Settlements  and  Descents  of  the  Northmen  on  the  British 
Isles.  Vol.  I.  Orkneyinga  Saga,  and  Magnus  Saga.  Vol.  II. 
Hakonar  Saga,  and  Magnus  Saga.  Edited  by  Gudbrand  Vig- 
fusson,  M.A.  1887.  Vols.  III.  and  IV.  Translations  of  the 
above  by  Sir  G.  W.  Dasent,  D.C.L.      1894. 

89.  The    Tripartite    Life    of    Patrick,    with     other     documents 

relating  to  that  Saint.  Edited  by  W.  Stokes,  LL.D.,  D.C.L. 
Parts  I.  and  11.      1887. 

90.  Willelmi  Malmesbiriensis  Monachi  de  Gestis  Regum  Anglo- 

rum  libri  V.  ;  ET  Historic  Novell.^-;,  libri  III.  Edited  by 
W.  Stubbs,  D.D.,  Bishop  of  Oxford.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  1887- 
1889. 

91.  Lestorie     des     Engles    solum    Geffrei    Gaimar.       Edited    by 

Sir  T.  D.  Hardy,  D.C.L.  ;  continued  and  translated  by  C.  T. 
Martin,  B.A.     Vols.  I.  and  II.     1888-1889. 


19 

92.  Chron'iclk  of  IIf.ntiy  K.viohton,  Canon  of  Loicoster.     Vols.   I. 

and  II.      Edited  hi/  tho  Rov.  J.  R.  Lumby,  D.D.      1889-1895. 

93.  Chronicle  of  Adam  Murimuth,  with  tlic  Chronicle  of  Robert 

OF  AvESBURY.       Edited  by  E.  M.  Thompson,  LL.D.      1889. 

94.  Register  of  the  Abbey  of  St.  Thom.\s  the  Martyr,  Dublin. 

Edited  by  J.  T.  Gilbert.      1889. 

95.  Flores  Historiarum.     Edited  by  tho  Rev.  H.   R.   I.uard,  D.D. 

Vol.  I.  Tho  Croaton  to  a.d.  1060.  Vol.  II.  1U07-12G4.  Vol. 
III.    126.5-1326.      1890. 

96.  Memorials   of   St.    Edmund's   Abbey.     Edited  by  T.    Arnold, 

M.A.      Vols.    I.-III.      1890-1896. 

97.  Charters  and  Documents  illustrating  the  history  of  thb 

Cathedral  and  City  of  Sauum,  1 100- 1 300 ;  forming  an  Appendix 
to  the  Register  of  S.  Osmund.  Selected  by  tho  Rev.  \V.  H. 
Rich  Jones,  M.A.,  and  edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  1).  Macray,  M.A. 
1891. 

98.  Memoranda  de  Parliamento,   33  Edward  I.      1305.     Edited  by 

V.  W.  Maitland,  M.A.      1893. 

99.  The  IIed  Rook  of  the  Exchequer.      Edited  by  \l.  Hall.      Parts 

T.-III.      1896. 


20 

PUBLICATIONS 
OF  THE  RECORD  CO^f^flSSIONERS.  &c. 

In  boards  or  cloth.     Volumes  not  mentioned  in  this  list  are  out  of  print. 

RoTtTLORUM  OmaiNALiuM  TN  CuBiA  ScACCAnii  Abbreviatio.  Henry  III. — 
Edw.  III.  Edited  by  H.  Playford  (1805-1810).  2  Vols,  folio.  12«.  M. 
each. 

CaXJ^NDARIUM      iNQtnSITIONUM      Po.ST     MORTEM     STVE     E.SCAETARUM.       Edited 

by  J.  Caley  and  J.   Bayley  (180C-1828).     Folio.     Vols.    1,   2,   3,   2U. 

each  ;    Vol.  4,  24,'*. 
NoNARiuM  Inqulsitiones  IN  CuRiA  ScACCARiT.     Edited  by  G.  Vanderzee 

(1807).     Folio.      18«. 
LiBRouuM  Manu-scriptorum  Bihliothec^  Hari^eian^  Cataloo0s.     4  Vols. 

Edited  by  the  Rov.  T.  H.  Hornk  (1812).     Folio.      18».  each. 
Abbreviatio  Placitorum.   Richard  I.— Edward  II.   Edited  by  the  Right  Hon. 

G.  Rose  and  W.  Ilunoworth  (1811).     Folio.     18/». 
Liber  Censdaws  vocati  Domksday-Book.     Folio.  Vols.  1  and  2  (1783),  25s. 

each.     Vol.  3,  Indices,  and  Vol.  4,  Additamentaox  Codic.  Antiquiss  (1816). 

Edited  by   Sir   H.    Elms.     21s.   each. 
Statutes  of  the  Realm.     Edited  by  Sir  T.  E.  Tomltns,  J.  Raithby,  J.  Caley 

and  W.  Elliott  (1824-1828).     Folio.     Vols.  2.  3,  4  (Part  II),  and  5  to 

9,  31«.  6rf.  each;    Vols.   10  and  11,  Indices.     'Ms.  each. 
Valor  Ecci.esta.sticus,   temp.   Hen.   VIII.,    Auctoritato    Rogia    institutus. 

Edited  by  J.  Caley  and  the  Rev.  J.  Httnter  (1825-1834).     Vols  1  to  6, 

folio.     25s.  each.     The  Introduction,  separately,  8vo.     2s.  6d. 
RoTULT  Scotia  in  Turri  Londinensi  et  in  Domo  Capitulari  Westmonas- 

TERiENSi  asservati,  19  Edw.  I. — Hen.  VIII.    Edited  by  D.  Macpherson, 

J.  Caley,  W.  Illinoworth,  and  the  Rev.  T.  H.  Horne  (1814^1818). 

2  Vols,  folio.     42s. 
FcEDERA,  Conventiones,  Litter^,  &c.  ;  or  Rymer's  Fcedera.  New  Edition. 

Folio.     Edited  by  J.  Caley  and  F.  Holbrooke  (1869).    Vol.  3,  Part  II., 

1361-1377,  21s.  ;    Vol.  4,  1377-1383,  da. 
DucATUs    Lancastri^   Calendarium   Inquisitionum   post   Mortem,    &c., 

Edw.  I. — Car.  I.     Edited  by  R.  J.  Harper,  J.  Caley,  and  W.  Minchin 

(1827-1834).     Folio.     Vols.  1  and  2,  31s.  Gd.  each;    Vol.  3,  21s. 
Calendars  of  the  Proceedings  in  Chancery,  Elizabeth  ;    with  Examples 

of  Proceedings  from  Rie.  II.     Edited  by  J.  Bayley  (1832).     3  Vols,  folio. 

21s.  each. 
Parliamentary  Writs  and  Writs  of  IMilitary  Summons,  with  Records  and 

Muniments  relating  to  Suit  and  Service  to  Parliament,  etc.     Edw.  II. 

Edited  by  Sir  F.  Palgrave  (1830-1834).     Foho.     Vol.   1,  21s.  ;    Vol.  2, 

Divisions,   1.  2,  21s.  each,  and  3,  42s. 
RoTULi  Litterarum  Clausarum  in  Turri  Londinensi  asservati.     2  Vols. 

foHo.     Edited  by  T.  D.  Hardy  (1833-1844).     Vol.    1,   1204-1224,  63s.; 

Vol.  2,  1224-1227,  18s. 
Proceedings    and    Ordinances    of    the    Privy    Council    of    England. 

10  Ric.  II.— 33  Hen.  VIII.     Edited  by  Sir  N.  H.  Nicolas  (1834^1837). 

7  Vols.  8vo.      14s.  each.     {Vols.   1-3  out  of  print.) 
RoTULi  Litterarum   Patentium  in  Turri   Lond.   asservati.    1201-1216. 

Edited  by  T.  D.  Hardy  (1835).      1  Vol.  foho,  31s.  M.     (Out  of  print.) 

The  Introduction,  separately,  8vo.     9s. 
Rotuli  Normanni^  in  Turri  Lond.  asservati.     1200-1205  ;    1417-1418. 

Edited  by  T.  D.  Hardy  (1835).     8vo.      12s.  6d. 
Rotult  de  Oblatis  et  Finibus  in  Turri  Lond.  asservati,  temp.  Regis 

Johannis.     Edited  by  T.  D.  Hardy  (1835).     8vo.      18s. 

EXCERPTA  E  ROTULIS  FiNIUM  IN  TuRRI  LoNDINENSI    ASSERVATI.       Henry    III. 

1216-1272.      Edited    by   C.    Roberts    (1835-1836).      8vo.      Vol.  1,  14«. 
Vol.  2,  18s. 

Fines,  sive  Pedes  Finium  :  sive  Finales  Concordia  in  Curia  Domini 
Regis.  7  Richard  1.— 16  John,  1195-1214.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  J. 
Hunter  (1835-1844).     In  Counties.     8vo.     Vol.  1,  8s.  Qd.,  Vol.  2,  2s.  6d. 

Ancient  Ivalendars  and  Inventories  of  the  Treasury  of  His  Majesty's 
Exchequer  ;  %vith  Documents  illustrating  its  History.  Edited  by  Sir  F. 
Palgrave  (1836).     3  Vols.  8vo.     42s. 

Documents  and  Records  illustrating  the  History  of  Scotland,  and  Trans- 
actions between  Scotland  and  England  ;    preserved  in  the  Treasury  of 
Her   Majesty's   Exchequer.      Edited  by  Sir  F.  Palgrave  (1837).     8vo 
1 8s. 


21 

KoTULI    CUARTARDM   IN   TORRI    LONOINENSI   AS8ERVATI.        1199-121(5.       Edited 

by  T.  D.  Hardy  (1837).      Folio.     '.Ws. 
Report  of  the  Proceedings  of  the  Record    Commissioners,  1831-1837. 

Folio  (1837).     88. 
Ancient  Laws  and  Institutes  of  England  ;  comprising  Laws  enacted  under 

the  Anglo-Saxon  Kings,  with  translation  of  the  Saxon  ;    the  Laws  called 

Edward  the  Confessor's  ;    the  Laws  of  WiUiani  the  Conqueror,  and  those 

ascribed  to  Henry  I.  ;    Monunionta  Ecclcsiastica  Anglicana,  from  7th  to 

10th  century  ;    and  Ancient  Latin   Version  of  the  Anglo-Saxon   Laws. 

Edited  by   13.   Thorpe.      1   Vol.   folio,  -iOs.     2   Vols.   8vo.,   30;<.     (Vol.    1 

is  out  of  print.) 
Ancient  Laws  and  Institutes  of  Wales  ;   comprising  Laws  supposed  to  be 

enacted  by  Howel  the  Good,  modified  by  Regulations  prior  to  the  Conquest 

by  Edward  I.  ;    and  anomalous  Laws,  principally  of  Institutions  which 

continued   in   force.     With   translation.     Also,    Latin   Transcripts,   con- 
taining Digests  of  Laws,  principally  of  the  Dimetian  Code.     Edited  by 

Aneurin  Owen  (1841).      1  Vol.  folio.     44s.     2  Vols.  8vo.,  36«. 
Rotuli  de  Liberate  ac  de  Misis  et  Pr^stitis,  Regnante  Johanno.     Edited 

by  T.  D.  Hardy  (1844).     8vo.     6s. 
Documents  Illustrative  of  English  History  in  the  13th  and  14th  centuries, 

from  the  Records  of  the  Queen's  Remembrancer  in  the  Exchequer.   Edited 

by  H.  Cole  ( 1 8-44).     Folio.     45.s'.  (id. 
Modus  Tenendi  Parliamentum.   An  Ancient  Treatise  on  the  Mode  of  holding 

the  Parhament   in  England.      Edited   by  T.   D.   Hardy    (184G).      8vo. 

2a.  6d. 
Registrum  Magni  Sigilli  Regum  Scotorum  in  Archivis  Publicis  asservatum. 

Vol.1.   130G-1424.    {For  continuation  see  page '3r>.)     Edited  by  T.  Tuonsou 

(1814).     FoHo,     lOtf.  (id. 
Acts  of  the  Parliaments  of  Scotland.     Edited  bn  'V.  Thomson  and  C.  Innes 

(1814-1875).     Folio.     Vol.    1,  42«.  ;    Vols.   2,-3.  and  4,   10,^.   Gd.  each; 

Vols.  5  and  G  (in  three  Parts),  2Lv.  each  Part ;    Vols.  7,  t>,  9,  10,  and  11, 

10s.  Gd.  each  ;      Vol.    12    (Index),    G3s.     Or,    12    Vols,    in    13,    12/.    12». 

(A  Revised  Edition  of  the  Acts  of  the  Parliaments  of  Scotland,  1424-1707, 

was  published  in  1908  jor  the  Statute  Law  Committee.      1  Vol.      10.*.) 
Acts  of  the  Lords  Auditors  of  Causes  and  Complaints  (Acta  Do.minorum 

Auditorum).     1466-1494.     Edited     by     T.     Thomson     (1839).     Folio. 

10#.  (id. 
Acts  of  the  Lords  of  Council  in  Civil  Causes  (Acta  Dominorum  Concilii). 

1478-1495.     Edited  by  T.  Thomson  (1839).     Folio.      10s.   (Sd. 
Issue  Roll  of  Thomas  de   Brantingham,   Bishop  of  Exeter,   Lord  High 

Treasurer,  containing  Payments  out  of  the  Revenue,  44  Edw.  III.,  1370. 

Edited  by  F.  Devon.     8vo.,  25s. 
Issues  of  the  Exchequer,  Honry  III. — Henry  VI.  ;   from  the  Pell  Records. 

Edited  by  F.  Devon.     4to.,  40s.     Or,  8vo.  30s. 
Issues  of  the  Exchequer,  James  I.  ;    from  the  Pell  Records.     Edited  by 

F.  Devon  (1S3G).     4to.,  30s.     Or,  8vo.  21.v. 
Handbook    to    the    Public    Records.      By  F.   S.  Thomas  (1853).      8vo. 

12s. 
Historical  Notes  rei.ative  to  the  History  of  England.     Henry  VIII. — 

Anne.   1509-1714.     A  Book  ot   Reference  for  ascertaining  the  Dates  of 

Events.     By  P.  S.  Thomas  (1856).     3  Vols.  8vo.     40s. 
State  Paper.s,  during  the  reign  of  Henry  the  Eighth  :     with  Indices  of 

Persons  and  Places.      11  Vols.  4to.  (1830-1852).      10s.  G'i.  each. 
Vol.    I. — Domestic   Correspondence. 
Vols    II.  and  III. — Correspondence  relating  to  Ireland. 
Vols.  IV.  and  V. — Correspondence  relating  to  Scotland. 
Vols.  V^I.  to  XI. — Correspondence  between  England  and  Foreign  Courts. 
Monumenta  Historica   Britannica.     Edited  bi/  H.    Petrie,   the   Rev.   J. 

Sharpe,  and  T.  D.  Hardy  (1848).     Folio.     42s. 


REPORTS  ON  THE  UTRECHT  PSALTER. 

The  Athan ASIAN  Creed  in  Connexion  with  the  Utrecht  P.>^ alter  ;  being 
a  Report  to  the  Right  Honourable  Lord  Romilly,  Master  of  the  Rolls, 
on  a  ManiLScript  in  the  University  of  Utrecht,  by  Sir  T.  D.  Hardy,  D.C.L. 
1872.     4to.     2  facsimiles.     20s. 

Further  Report  on  the  Utrecht  Psalter;  in  answer  to  the  Eighth  Report 
made  to  the  Trustees  of  the  British  Museum,  and  edited  by  the  Dean  of 
Westminster.     By  Sir  T.  D.  Hardy,  D.C.L.  1874.     4to.  lUi. 


22 


WORKS   PUBLISHED    IN    PHOTOZINCOGRAPHY. 


Domesday  Book,  or  the  Great  Survey  of  England  of  Wilt.iam  the 
CoNQUEKOK,  1080  ;  t'ac-siiailu  of  the  I'art  relating  to  each  county, 
separately  (witii  a  few  exceptions  of  double  counties).  Photo- 
>;iucographed  at  the  Ordnance  Siu'vey  Office,  Southampton. 

Domesday  Book  was  printed  verbatim  at  literatim  during  the  18th 
century,  in  consequence  of  an  address  of  the  House  of  Lords  to 
King  George  I II.  in  1767.  It  was  not,  however.  CDrnmenced  until 
1773,  and  was  coraplcttvl  early  in  1783.  In  1860,  Her  Majesty's 
Government,  with  the  conciurrence  uf  the  Master  of  the  Roils, 
determined  to  appl\  the  art  of  pliotozincography  in  the  pro- 
duction of  a  facsimile  of  Domesday  Book. 

In  Oreat  Domesday  Book.        Price.  Price. 


Bedfordshire          _         _        _ 

8/0 

Middlesex     -         -         -         - 

8/0 

Berlv  shire      -         -         -         _ 

8/0 

Northamptonshire           -         - 

8/0 

Buckingham           _         _         _ 

8/0 

Nottinghamshire   -         -         - 

10/0 

Cambridge    -         -         -         - 

10/0 

Oxfordshire  -         -         -         - 

8/0 

Cheshire  and  Lancashire         - 

8/0 

Rutlandshire     (fiee     Leicester- 

Cornwall       -         _         _         _ 

8/0 

shire)      -         -         -         - 

Derbyshire    -         -          -         - 

8/0 

Shropshire        "1 

Devonshire  -         -         -         _ 

10/0 

Somersetshire  Uout  of  print) 
Staffordshire     ] 

Dorset-shire  -         -         -         _ 

8/0 

Gloucestershii-e  (out  of  print) 

Surrey            _         _         _         _ 

8/0 

Hampshire    -         -         -         - 

10/0 

Sussex            _         _         _         _ 

10/0 

Herefordshire         -         -          - 

8/0 

Warwickshire  (out  of  print) 

Hertfordshire          _         _         _ 

10/0 

Wiltshire       -         _         -         - 

10/0 

Huntingdonshire    -         -         - 

8/0 

Worcestershire       _         _         - 

8/0 

Kent  (out  of  print) 

Yorkshire  (out  of  print) 

Lancashire  (see  Cheshire  and 

Lancashire)    -         -         _ 

In  Little  Domesday  Book. 

Leicestershire     and     Rutland- 

Essex -         -         -         -         - 

16/0 

shire                 _         _         _ 

8/0 

Norfolk         _         _        _        - 

23/0 

Lincolnshire           _        _         _ 

21/0 

Suffolk           _         _         .          _ 

22/0 

Translation  of  the  Domesday  ] 

Book  : — Cornwall,  5/0. 

Fac-similes  of  National  Manuscripts,  from  William  the  Con- 
queror to  Queen  Anne,  selected  under  the  direction  of  the 
Master  of  the  Rolls  and  Photozincographed  by  the  Ordnance 
Survey,  and  edited  by  W.  Basevi  Sanders.  Price,  eacli  Part, 
with  translations  and  notes,  16s. 

Part  I.  (William  the  Conqueror  to  Henry  VII.).      1865.     (Out 
of  print.) 

Part  II.  (Henry  VII.  and  Edward  VI.).      1866. 

Part  III.  (Mary  and  Elizabeth).      1867 

Part  IV.  (James  I.  to  Anne).      1868. 

The  first  Part  extends  from  William  the  Conqueror  to 
Henry  VII.,  and  contains  autographs  of  the  kings  of  England, 
as  well  as  of  many  other  illustrious  personages  famous  in  history, 
and  some  interesting  charters,  letters  patent,  and  state  papers. 
The  second  Part,  for  the  reigns  of  Henry  VIII.  and  Edward  VI., 
consists  principally  of  holograph  letters,  and  autographs  of  kings, 
princes,  statesmen,  and  other  persons  of  great  historical  interest, 
who  li\'ed  dm-ing  those  reigns.  The  third  Part  contains  similar 
documents  for  the  reigns  of  Mary  and  Elizabeth,  including 
a  signed  bill  of  Lady  Jane  Grey.  The  fourth  Part  concludes 
the  series,  and  comprises  a  number  of  documents  taken  from 
the  originals  belonging  to  the  Constable  of  the  Tower  of  London  ; 
also  several  records  illustrative  of  the  Gunpowder  Plot,  and  a 
woodcut  containing  portraits  of  Mary  Queen  of  Scots  and 
James  VI.,  circulated  by  their  adherents  in  England,  1580-3. 


23 

Fac-sfmh-ks  ()i-  A.v<;u)-Saxo.v  MA^fuscKll■TS.  Phot()ziiicu;4rHplicil 
by  tlio  Okunanck  Sukv'EY,  and  tnlitod  by  \V.  Baskvi  8ANOiiKS. 
Part  I.     Price  21.  10a. 

The  Ango-Saxon  MSS.  represented  in  this  volume  form  the 
oarlier  portiona  of  the  collection  of  archives  belonging  to  the 
Dean  and  Chapter  of  Canterbury,  and  consist  of  a  series  of 
2(5  charters,  deeds,  and  wills,  conunencing  with  a  record  of 
proceedings  at  the  first  Synodal  Council  of  Cloveslio  in  742, 
and  terminating  with  the  lirst  part  of  a  tripartite  cliirograph 
of  the  sixth  year  of  the  reign  of  Edward  the  Confessor. 

Part  11.      Price  M.   10s. 

(Also  separately.     Edward  the  Confessor's  Charter.     Price  2s.) 

The  originals  of  the  fac-siniiles  contained  in  this  volume  belong 
to  the  Deans  and  Chapters  of  Wostininstor,  Exeter,  Wells, 
Winchester,  and  Worcester  ;  the  Marquis  of  Bath,  the  Earl  of 
Ilcliester,  Winchester  College,  Her  Majesty's  Public  Record  Office, 
Bodleian  Library,  Somersetshire  ArcluTCological  and  National 
History  Societj^'s  Museum  in  Taunton  Castle,  and  William  Salt 
Library  at  Stafford.  They  consist  of  charters  and  otlier 
documents  granted  by,  or  during  the  reigns  of,  Baldi-ed,  .(Ethelred, 
Offa,  and  Biu-gred,  Kings  of  Mercia  ;  Uhtred  of  the  Huicca-i, 
Caedwalla  and  Ini  of  Wessex  ;  .^thelwulf,  Eadward  the  Elder, 
-Ethelstan.  Eadmund  the  First,  Eadred,  Eadwig,  Eadgar. 
Eadward  the  Second,  ^'Etheh-od  the  Second,  Cnut,  Eadward  the 
Confessor,  and  William  the  Conqueror,  embracing  altogether 
a  period  of  nearly  four  hundred  j'etirs. 

Part  III.     Price  61.  6s. 

This  volume  contains  fac-similes  of  the  Ashburnham  Collection 
of  Anglo-Saxon  Charters,  &c.,  including  King  Alfred's  will.  The 
MSS.  represented  in  it  range  from  A.D.  GU7  to  A.D.  1161,  being 
charters,  wills,  deeds,  and  reports  of  Synodal  transactions  during 
the  reigns  of  Kings  \\  ihtred  of  Kent,  Offa,  Eardwulf,  Coenwulf, 
Cutlu-ed,  Beornwulf,  .Ethelwulf,  Alfred,  Eadward  the  Elder, 
Eadmund,  Eadred,  Queen  Eadgifu,  and  Kings  Eadgar,  .^Ethelred 
the  Second,  Cnut,  Henry  tho  Fiist,  and  Henry  the  Second.  In 
addition  to  these  are  two  belonging  to  the  Marquis  of  Anglesey, 
one  of  them  being  tho  Foundation  Charter  of  Burton  Abbey  by 
^'Ethehed  the  Second,  with  the  testament  of  its  groat  benefactor 
Wulfric. 


24 


HISTORICAL    MANUSCRIPTS    COMMISSION 


REPORTS  OF  THE  ROYAL  COMMISSIONERS  APPOINTED  TO  INQUIRE  WHAT 
PAPERS  AND  MANUSCRIPTS  BELONGING  TO  PRIVATE  FAMILIES  AND 
INSTITUTIONS  ARE  EXTANT  WHICH  WOULD  BE  OF  UTILITY  IN  THE 
ILLUSTRATION  OF  HISTORY,  CONSTITUTIONAL  LAW,  SCIENCE,  AND  OENEBAL 
LITERATURE. 


(Size,  to  Ninth  Report,  Part  III.,  inclusive,  F'cap  ;   after  that,  8vo.) 


(Dates  in  parentheses  show  years  of  Reprints.) 


Date. 


No.  of 
Paper. 


Price. 


1870  First  Report,  with  Appendix C.  55 

(1874)  England.     House  of  Lords  ;   Cambridge 

Colleges  ;     Abingdon,   and   other   Cor- 
porations, &c.   Scotland.    Advocates'  , 
Library,     Glasgow     Corporation,     &c.   ! 
Ireland.      Dublin,    Cork,   and   other  I 
Corporations,  &c.  1 

1871  Second  Report,  with  Appendix,  and 
Index  to  the  First  and  Second 
Reports        C.  44 1 

England.    House  of  Lords  ;    Cambridge 
Colleges ;     Oxford    Colleges ;     Monas- 
tery   of   Dominican   Friars    at   Wood- 
chester,  Duke  of  Bedford,  Earl  Spencer,  j 
&c.      Scotland.      Aberdeen   and   St.  ! 
Andrew's  Universities,  &c.     Ireland,   j 
Marquis  of  Ormonde  ;  Dr.  Lyons,  &c. 

1872  Third  Report,  with  Appendix  and  Index         C.  673 
(1896)  England.    House  of  Lords  ;    Cambridge  ! 

Colleges  ;  Stonyhurst  College  ;  Bridg-  ; 
water  and  other  Corporations  ;  Duke  ] 
of  Northumberland,  Marquis  of  Lans- 
downe,  Marquis  of  Bath,  &c.  Scot- 
land. University  of  Glasgow  ;  Duke 
of  Montrose,  &c.  Ireland.  Marquis  of 
Ormonde  ;  Black  Book  of  Limerick,  &c. 

1873  Fourth  Report,  with  Appendix.  Part  I.  C.  857 
England.  House  of  Lords  ;  West- 
minster Abbey  ;  Cambridge  and 
Oxford  Colleges  ;  Cinque  Ports,  Hythe, 
and  other  Corporations ;  Marquis  of 
Bath,  Earl  of  Denbigh,  &c.  Scotland. 
Duke  of  Argyll,  &c.  Ireland.  Trinity 
College,     Dublin ;      Marquis     of     Or- 

monde. 

1873      Ditto.     Part  II.     Index C.  857-i 

1876      Fifth  Report,  with  Appendix.    Part  I.  C.   1432 

England.  House  of  Lords  ;  Oxford  and 
Cambridge  Colleges  ;  Dean  and 
Chapter  of  Canterbury  ;  Rye,  Lydd, 
and  other  Corporations ;  Duke  of 
Sutherland,  Marquis  of  Lansdovvne, 
Reginald  Cholmondeley,  Esq.,  &c. 
Scotland.  Earl  of  Aberdeen,  &c. 
1876      Ditto.     Part  II.     Index '     C.   1432-i 


a. 
1 


d. 

6 


3  10 


6     0 


6     8 


6 
0 


3     6 


25 


1877 


1878 
(1893) 

1879 
(1895) 


1879 

(1895) 

1881 


Sixth  Report,  with  Appendix.  Part  I. 
England.  House  of  Lords  ;  Oxford  and 
Cambridge  Colleges  ;  Lambeth  Palace  ; 
Black  Book  of  the  Arclideacon  of  Can- 
terbury ;  Bridport,  Wallingford,  and 
other  Corporations  ;  Lord  Lecoiifield, 
Sir  Reginald  Graham,  Sir  Henry 
Ingilby,  &c.  Scotland.  Duke  of 
Argyll,  Earl  of  Moray,  &c.  Ireland. 
Marquis  of  Ormonde. 

Ditto.     Part  II.     Index 

Seventh  Report,  with  Appendix.   Part  I. 
House  of  Lords  ;    County  of  Somerset ; 
Earl    of   Egmont,    Sir   Frederick   Gra- 
ham, Sir  Harry  Verney.  &c. 
Ditto.   Part  II.   Appendix  and  Index 

Duke   of   Atholl,    Marquis   of    Ormonde, 
Sir  S.   F.   Livingstone,   &c. 
Eighth     Report,     with     Appendix     and 
Index.     Part  I.         


Re-isaued.    1!)07.    as    Stationery    Office 
publications — 
Report     and     Appendix,     Part     I., 
Section  I.       Price  6s.  8vo  :~ 
Duke   of   Marlborough  ;     Earl  of   Ports- 
mouth ;     Earl    of    Jersey  ;     House    of 
Lords  ;     Lord  Emly  ;    Ralph  Bankos, 
Esq.,    Geo.    Wingfield    Digby,    .Esq.  ; 
Royal  College  of  Physicians  ;   Corpora- 
tion of  Trinity  House. 

Report  and  Appendix,  Part  L,  Sec- 
tion II.  1908.  Price  6a.  8vo.  :— 
Magdalen  College,  Oxford  ;  Corporation 
of  Pontefract ;  Lord  Braybrooke ; 
Viscount  Arbutlmott  ;  Earl  of 
Glasgow  ;  Miss  Hamilton  of  Burns 
and  Cochno  ;  Alex.  C.  Stuart,  Esq., 
of  Eaglescarnie  ;  Dean  and  Chapter 
of  Canterbury  ;  Corporations  of  Chester 
and  Leicester ;  The  O'Conor  Don, 
M.P.  ;  Lord  Talbot  de  Malaliide ; 
Marquis  of  Ormonde. 

Report  and    Appendix   and    Index. 
Part  I.     Section  III.    1909.    Price 
4».  M.     8vo  :— 
Earl     of     Denbigh  ;      Trinity     College, 
Dublin  ;    Ewelme  Ahnshouse  ;    Queen 
Anne's     Bounty  ;      Edw.      Hailstone, 
Esq.  ;     Church   of    St.    Andrew,    VVor 
cester  ;      Bishop      Bub%vith's      Alms- 
houses,  Wells ;     Derry   Diocesan   Lib- 
rary  :     G.   H.   Finch,   Esq. 
1881      Ditto.     Part  II.      Appendix  and  Index. 
Duke  of  Manchester. 

Re-iaaued.   1910,  as  a  Stationery  Office 
publication.     Price  3s.  6d. 
1881      Ditto.     Part  III.     .Appendix  and  Index. 

Earl  of  Ashburnham. 
1883      Ninth  Report,  with  Appendix  and  Index. 

(1895)       Part  I 

St.  Paul's  and  Canterbury  Cathedrals  ; 
Eton  College  ;  Carlisle,  Yarmouth, 
Canterbury,  and  Barnstaple  Corpora- 
tions, &c. 


C. 

2102 

1   10 

C. 

2340 

7     6 

C. 

2340-i 

3     6 

c. 

3040 

Out  of 
print. 

C.   3040  i 


C.   3040  ii 


C.  3773 


Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 
print. 

5     2 


26 


Date. 


1884      Ninth  Repokt.     Pakt  II.     Appendix  and 
(1895)        Index. 

England.      House    of    Lords :    Earl    of 
Leicester;    C.  Pole    Gell,    Alfred    Mor- 
rison,  Esqs.,   &c.      Scotland.      Lord 
Elphiiistone,    H.    C.    Maxwell    Stuart, 
Esq.,  &c.  Ireland.   Duke  of   Leinster, 
Marquis  of  Drogheda,  &c. 
1884      Ditto.   Part  III.   Appendix  and  Index    .  . 
Mrs.  Stopford  Sackville   [re-issued,  1904, 
revised  and  extended,  as  Vol.  I.,  Cd. 
;  1892.     Price  Is.   lOd.     8vo.] 

I  Calendar    of   the    Manuscripts    of   the 
Marquis  of  Salisbury,  K.G.   (or  Cecil 

1306-1571        ,.. 

1572-1582        

1583-1589        

1590-1594        

1594-1596 

1596  

1597  

1598  

1599  

1600  

1601  

1602  


No.  of 
Paper. 


C.  3773-i 


Price. 


«.  d. 
6    3 


1883 

MSS.). 

1895) 

Part  I. 

1888 

Part  II. 

1889 

Part  III. 

1892 

Part  IV. 

1894 

Part  V. 

1896 

Part  VI. 

1899 

Part  VII. 

1899 

Part  VIII 

1902 

Part  IX. 

1904 

Part  X. 

1906 

Part  XI. 

1910 

Part  XII. 

1885 

Tenth  Rep 

1885 

(1895) 

1885 
1886 


1885 


1886 
(1895) 

1887 

1887 

1887 

1887 
1887 


(Rc-issned,  1906,  as  a  Stationery  Office 
Publication.     Price  dd.)  1 

This  is  introductory  to  the  following  ' 
Appendices  and  Indexes  : 

(1.)  Earl  of  Eglinton,  Sir  J.  S.  Maxwell, 
Bart.,  and  C.  S.  H.  D.  Moray,  C.  F. 
Weston  Underwood,  G.W.  Digby,  Esqs. 

(2.)  The  Family  of  Gawdy 1 

(3.)  Wells  Cathedral  

[Re-issued,  1906,  revised  and  extended, 
as  Cd.  2810.     2s.  lid.     8vo.] 

(4.)  Earl  of  Westmorland  ;  Capt.  Ste- 
wart ;  Lord  Stafford  ;  Sir  N.  W. 
Throckmorton  ;  Sir  P.  T.  Mainwaring, 
Lord  M^mcaster,  M.P.,  Capt.  J.  F. 
Bagot,  Earl  of  Kilmorey,  Earl  of  Powis, 
and  others ;  the  Corporations  of 
Kendal,  Wenlock,  Bridgnorth,  Eye, 
Plymouth  ;  the  County  of  Essex  ; 
and  Stonyhurst  College. 

{Re-issued,  1906,  as  a  Stationery  Office 
Publication.     Price  6s.) 

(5.)  Marquis  of  Ormonde,  Earl  of  Fingall, 
Corporations  of  Galway  and  Waterford, 
Sees  of  Dublin  and  Ossory,  the  Jesuits 
in  Ireland. 

(6. )  Marquis  of  Abergavenny ;  Lord  Braye : 
G.  F.  Luttrell,  P.  P.  Boviverie,  W. 
Bromley  Davenport,  R.T.  Balfour,  Esqs. 

Eleventh  Report         . . 

This  is  introductory  to  the  following 
Appendices  and  Indexes  : 

(1.)  H.      D.      Skrine,      Esq.,       Salvetti 
Correspondence 

(2.)  House  of  Lords,  1678-1688    ..      .. 

(3.)  Corporations  of  Southampton  and 
Lynn 


C.  3773-ii 

Out  of 

print. 

C.  3777 

3     5 

C.  5463 

3     5 

C.  5889-v 

2     1 

C.  6823 

2  11 

C.   7574 

2     6 

C.   7884 

2     8 

C.   9246 

2     8 

C.   9467 

2     8 

Cd.   928 

2     3 

Cd.   2052 

2     3 

Cd.  3134 

2  10 

Cd.   5291 

2     3 

C.  4548 

Out  of 

print. 

C.  4575 

3     7 

C.  4576-iii 

1     4 

C.   4576-ii 

Out  of 

print. 

C.  4576 

Out  of 

• 

print. 

C.   4576-i 


C.  5242 


C.   5060-vi 


C.   5060 


2   10 


1     7 


0     3 


1     1 


C.  5060-i  2     0 

C.  5060-ii  1     8 

1 


27 


1887 
1887 
1887 
1888 


1890 


1888 

1888 
1889 
1888 

1891 
1889 
1890 
1891 
1891 


1891 
1892 


1891 
1893 
1892 

1892 


Eleventh     Kepout  :     Appendices       and 
Indexes — cout. 

(4.)   Marquess  Townshend        C.   .")060-iii 

(5.)  Earl  of  Dartmouth C.   5060-iv 

(6.)  Duke  of   Hamilton 0.   5060-v  ' 

(7.)  Duke     of      Leeds,     Marchioness     of  C.   5612 

Watorford,  Lord  Hothfield,  &c.  ; 
Bridgwater  Trust  Office,  Reading 
Corporation,  Inner  Temple  Library. 

Twelfth  Keport  C.  5889 

This  is  introductory  to  the  following 
Appendices  and  Indexes  : 
(1.)  Earl  Covvper,    K.G.    (Coke  MSS.,  at         C.   5472 
Meiboiu-ne  Hall,  Derby).     Vol.  I. 

(2.)  Ditto.     Vol.  II C.   5613 

(3.)  Ditto.     Vol.    Ill C.  r.889-i 

^4.)  Duke  of  Rutland,  G.C.B.    Vol.   L  C.  5614 

(5.)  Ditto.     Vol.   II C.  5889-ii 

(6.)  House  of  Lords,  1689-1690  ..  ..  C.  5889-iii 
(7.)  S.  H.  le  Fleming,  Esq.,  of  Rvdal  ..  C.  5889-iv 
(8.)  Duke  of  Athole.K.T.,  Earl  of  Home  C.  6338 

(9.)  Duke    of    Beaufort,    K.G.,     Earl  of        C.  6338-i 
Donouglunore  ;    J.  H.  Gurney,  W.  W.   j 
B.    Hulton,    R.     VV.     Ketton,    G.    A.  | 
Aitken,   1'.   V.   Smith,   Esqs.  ;     Bishop 
of  Ely  ;    Cathedrals  of  Ely,  Gloucester, 
Lincoln  and  Peterborough  ;    Corpora- 
tions of   Gloucester,   Higham  Ferrers,  , 
and     Newark  ;      Southwell     Minster ;  I 
Lincoln  District  Registry. 
(10.)  First  Earl  of  Charlemont.    Vol.  I.  C.   6338-ii 


1892 
1893 


1893 
1893 

1896 


1894 
1894 
1894 


1894 
1896 


Thirteenth  Report      

This  is  introductory  to  the  following  j 
Appendices  and  Indexes  :  I 

(1.)  Duke  of  Portland.     Vol.  I 

(2.)  Ditto.     Vol.  II 

(3.)  J.  B.  Fortescue,  Esq.,  of  Drop- 
more.   Vol.  I. 

(4.)  Corporations  of  Rye,  Hastings,  and 
Hereford ;      Captain     F.     C.     Loder-  j 
Symonds ;     E.    R.    VVodehouse,    M.P.,  | 
J.  Dovaston,  Esqs.  ;   Sir  T.  B.  Leonard, 
Bart.,  Rev.   W.  D.   Macray,  and  Earl 
of  Dartmouth  (Supplementary  Report). 

(5.)  House  ol   Lords,   1690-1691     . .      .  . 

(6.)  Sir  VV.  Fitzherbert,  Bart.  ;  the 
Delaval  Family,  of  Seaton  Delaval  ; 
Earl  of  Ancaster  ;  General  Lyttelton- 
Annesley.  ' 

(7.)  Earl  of  Lonsdalo        

(8.)  First  Earl  of  Charlemont.     Vol.  II. 

Fourteenth  Report     

This  is  introductory  to  the  following 
Appendices  and  Indexes  : 
(1.)  Duke  of  Rutland,  G.C.B.    Vol  IIL 
(2.)  Duke  of  Portland.     Vol.  IIL 
(3.)  Duke    of    Roxburghe  ;     Sir    H.    H. 
Campbell,     Bax-t.  ;      Earl     of     Strath- 
more  ;    Countess  Dowager  of  Seafield. 

(4.)   Lord  Kenyon      

(5.)  J.  B.  Fortescue,  Esq.,  of  Dropmore. 
Vol.  II.  . .      


C.  6827 


C.  6474 

C.  6827 -i 

C.  6660 

C.  6810 


C.  6822 
C.  7166 


C.  7241 
C.  7424 

C.  7983 


8.   d. 


2  0 

2  8 

1  6 

2  0 


0  3 


2  5 

1  4 
Out  of 

print. 

2  0 
2  U 
1  11 

1  0 

2  6 


1  11 
0  3 


0 
0 

7 


2  4 


2  4 
1  4 


1  3 
1  11 

0  3 


C. 
C. 

c. 

7476 
7569 
7570 

1  11 

2  8 
1  2 

c. 
c. 

7571 

7572 

2  10 

2  8 

28 


Date. 


1895 


1895 
1895 


1895 

1895 
1899 


1896 
1897 
1897 


1897 
1897 
1897 
1897 

1897 

1897 

1899 


1898 
1899 

1905 


1902 


1903 

1905 
1910 


FOUKTEKNTH      RkpoRT  :       APPKNDICES      AND 

,       Indkxks — cont. 

(6.)  House  of  Lords,  1692-93 

(Manuscripts    of   the   House   of   Lords, 
1693-1695.      Vol.  I.  (New  Series).    See 
H.  L.  No.  (5)  ol   1900.     Price  28.  2d. 
Ditto.     1695-1697.     Vol.  II.    See  H.L. 

No.  (18)  of  1903.    Price  2s.  9d. 
Ditto.    1697-1699.    Vol.  III.    See  H.L. 

No.   (175)  ol  1905.     Price  2s.) 
Ditto.    1699-1702.     Vol.  IV.    See  H.L. 

No.  (7)  1908.    Price  2s.  M. 
Ditto.      1702-1704.      Vol.V.     See  H.L. 
No.  (62)  I'JIO.     Price  2.v.  M. 

(7.)  Marquis  of  Ormonde         

(8.)  Lincoln,  Bury  !St.  Edmunds,  Hert- 
ford and  Great  Grimsby  Corporations  ; 
Dean  and  Chapter  of  Worcester,  and 
of  Lichfield  ;  Bishop's  Registry  of 
Worcester. 
(9.)  Earl  of  Buckinghamshire;  Earl  of 
Lindsey  ;  Earl  of  Onslow  ;  Lord 
Emly  ;  T.  J.  Hare,  Esq.,  J.  Round, 
Esq.,  M.P. 
(10.)  Ea,rl  of  Dartmouth.  Vol.  XL  Amer- 
ican Papers. 

Fifteenth  Report        

This  is  introductory  to  the  following 
Appendices  and  Indexes  : 
(1.)  Earl  of  Dartmouth.     Vol.   IIi:       .. 

(2.)  J.  Eliot  Hodgkin,  Esq 

(3.)  Charles  Haliday,  Esq.,   of    Dublin  ; 
Acts  of  the  Privy  Council  in  Ireland, 
1506-1571  ;       Sir     William      Ussher's 
Table  to  the  Council  Book  ;    Table  to 
the  Red  Council  Book. 
(4.)  Duke  of  Portland.     Vol.   IV. 
(5.)  Right  Hon.  F.  J.  Savile  Foljambe  . . 
(6.)  Earl  of  Carlisle,  Castle  Howard 
(7.)  Duke    of     Somerset ;      Marquis     of 
Ailesbury  ;    Sir  F.  G.  Puleston,  Bart. 
(8.)  Duke    of     Buccleuch     and     Queens- 
berry,  at  Drumlanrig.     Vol.      I. 
(9.)  J.    J.    Hope     Johnstone,     Esq.,    of 
Annandale. 
(10.)  Shrewsbury     and      Coventry      Cor- 
porations ;     Sir   H.    O.    Corbet,    Bart., 
Earl  of  Radnor,  P.  T.  Tillard,  J.   R. 
Carr-Ellison,  Andrew  Ivingsmill,  Esqs. 

Manuscripts  in  the  Welsh  Language  : 

Vol.  I.    Lord  Mostyn,  at  Mostyn  Hall     . . 

VoL  L  PartlL  W.  R.  M.  Wynne,  Esq., 
of  Peniarth. 

Vol.  I.  Part  III.  Peniarth.  Su-  T. 
Williams ;  John  Jones,  Robert 
Vaughan,  Esqs. 

Vol.  II.  Part  I.  Jesus  College,  Oxford  ; 
Free  Library,  Cardiff ;  Havod  ;  Wrex- 
ham ;    Llanwrin  ;    Merthyr  ;    Aberdar. ' 

Vol.  II.  Part  II.  Plas  Llan  Stephan ; 
Free  Library,  Cardiff. 

VoL  II.   Part  III.  Panton  ;  Cwxtmawr  . . 

Vol.  II.  Part  IV.  The  British 
Museum. 


No.  of 
Paper. 


C.  7573 


C.  7678 
C.  7881 


C.   7882 

C.  7883 
C.  9295 


C.  8156 
C.  8327 
C.  8364 


C.  8497 

C.  8550 

C.  8551 

C.  8552 

C.  8553 

C.  8554 

C.  9472 


C.   8829 
C.  9468 

Cd.  2443 


Cd.   1100 


Cd.   1692 

Cd.  2444 
Cd.   5353 


Price. 
s.  d, 
1    11 


1   10 


2     6 

2     9 
0     4 


1  5 
1  8 
1     4 


2  11 

0  10 

3  6 

1  9 

1  4 
1  0 
1     0 


1  4 

2  11 

0     8 


1     9 


1     8 

0  8 

1  0 


29 


Date. 


No  of 
Paper. 


Price. 


1899 


1903 
1903 
1903 
1899 

1909 
1902 
1903 
1904 
190G 
1908 
1911 
1904 
1910 
1899 
1901 

1901 
1907 

1899 
1899 
1905 
1906 
1908 
i;»i() 


1899 
1900 
1900 
1900 
1901 


1903 


1904 


1907 


Manuscripts.  Duke  of  Buccleuch  and  Queens- 
berry,  K.O.,  K.T.,  at  Montagu  House, 
Whitehall.     Vol.   I. 

Ditto.   Ditto.  Vol.  II.     Part  I 

Ditto.   Ditto.   Vol.   II.     Part  II 

Ditto.    Ditto.   AtDnnnlanrigCastle.Vol.il. 


Ditto.     Marquess    of    Ormonde, 
Kilkenny  Castlo.      Vol.  II. 


1909 


1909 


1902 


K.P. 


at 


Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 

Vols. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto., 


Ditto.      Index  to  Vols.  I.  and  II. 
Ditto.     New  Series.     Vol.   I. 
Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.   II. 

Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  III. 

Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.   IV. 

Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  V. 

Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  VI. 

Mrs.  Stopford-Sackville.    \'ol.  I. 
Ditto.  Vol.   II. 

Duke    of    Portland.    K.G.     Vol.   V. 
Ditto.     Vol.     VI,   with    Index     to 
III.-VI. 

Ditto.     Vol.  VII 

Ditto.     Vol.  VIII 

J.  M.  Heathcote,  Esq 

J.  B.  Fortescue,  Esq.     Vol.   III.     . . 


Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 


Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 


IV. 

V. 

VI. 

VII. 

VIII. 


Ditto.     F.  W.   Leyborne-Popham,  Esq. 

Ditto.     Mrs.  Frankland-Russell-Astley 

Ditto.     Lord  Montagu  of  Beaulieu     . . 

Ditto.     Beverley  Corporation       

Ditto.  Various  Collections.  Vol.  I.  Cor- 
porations of  Berwick-on-Tweed,  Burford 
and  Lostwithiel  ;  Counties  of  Wilts  and 
Worcester  ;  Bisliop  of  Chichester  ;  Dean 
and  Chapter  of  Chichester,  Canterbury, 
and  Salisbury. 

Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  II.  Sir  Geo.  Womb- 
well,  Duke  of  Norfolk.  Lord  Edmund 
Talbot  (the  Shrewsbury  Papers),  Miss 
Buxton,  Mrs.  Harford  and  Mrs.  Went- 
worth  of  Woolley. 

Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  III.  T.  B.  Clarke- 
Thornhill,  Esq.,  Sir  T.  Barret t-Lennard, 
Bart.,  Pelham  R.  Papillon,  W.  Cleverley 
Alexander,  Esqs. 

Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  IV.  Bishop  of  Salis- 
bury ;  Bishop  of  Exeter  :  Dean  and 
Chapter  of  Exeter ;  Earl  of  Leicester ; 
Sir  W.  Clayton.  Bart.  ;  Major  Money- 
Kyrle  ;  F.  H.  T.  Jervoise,  Esq.  ;  Glem- 
ham  Hall ;  Corporations  of  Salisbury, 
Orford,  and  Aldeburgh. 

Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  V.  Colonel  Mordaunt 
Hay  of  Duns  Castle  ;  Sir  Archibald 
Edmonstone  of  Duntreath  ;  Sir  John 
Graham  of  Fintry,  K.C.M.G. 

Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  VI.  Miss  M.  Eyre 
Matcham  ;  Captain  H.  V.  Knox  ;  C.  Wyke- 
ham-Martin.  K.  B.  Tighe,  Esqs.,  Lord 
Oranmore  and  Browne. 

Calendar  of  the  Stuart  Manuscripts  at 
Windsor  Castle,  belonging  to  His  Majesty 
the  King.     Vol  I. 


C.  9244 


(\\.  930 

Cd.   930  i 

Cd.    1827 

C.   9245 

Cd.  4774 
Cd.  929 
Cd.  1691 
Cd.  1963 
Cd.  3008 
Cd.  4116 
Cd.  .■)288 
Cd.  1892 
Cd.  5038 
C.  9466 
Cd.  676 

Cd.  783 

Cd.  3475 

C.  94(19 

C.  9470 

ai.  2233 

Cd.  2S11 

Cd.  3670 

Cd.  5290 

C.l.  5732 

C.  9471 
Cd.  282 
Cd.  283 
Cd.  284 
Cd.   784 


Cd.  932 


Cd.   1964 


Cd.  .3218 


Cd.  4600 


Cd.   4382 


Cd.  927 


a.   d. 

2     7 


1  10 
1   11 

1  I 

2  0 

0  11^ 

1  7 

1  10 

2  0 

3  0 
2  10 
2  (i 
1    10 

1  6 

2  9 

1  9 

2  3 
1  10 
1     3 


1 
6 
4 
5 


I    11 

In    the 

I     Prefix . 


6 
0 
1 
0 
0 


2     4 


1     6 


1     9 


1     4 


2     3 


2  11 


30 


Data. 


No.  of 
Paper. 


Prioe. 


1904      Calendar     of    the     Stuart     ManuB'-ripta    at 
Windsor  Castle,  bolonging  to  His  ^Iajesty 

the  Kin-      Vol.   11.  '    Cd.   2189 

1907      Ditto.     Vol.   Ill Cd.   3430 

1<»I(»      Ditto.     Vol.    IV Cd.   5046 

1902      Manuscripts.       Colonel    David    Milne-Home,       Cd.   931 

of  VVedderburn  Castle,  N.B. 
1904      Ditto.     Marquess  of  Bath,  at  Longleat,  Wilt-       Cd.   2048 
shire.     Vol.  1. 

1907  Ditto.     Ditto.     Vol.  11 Cd.   3474 

1908  Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  III.  (Prior  Papers)..  Cd.  3849 
1904      American  Manuscripts  in  the  Roj'al  Institu-  Cd.   2201 

tion  of  Great  Britain.     Vol.  1.  1 

1906  Ditto.     Vol.  11 Cd.  2897 

1907  Ditto.     Vol.  Ill Cd.  3669 

1909  Ditto.     Vol.  IV Cd.  4773 

1904      Sixteenth  Report  (containing  a  list  of  the       Cd.  2209 

owners  of  Manuscripts  upon  wiiose  collec- 
tions Reports  have   been  made  to  July,  ; 
1904). 

1904  Manuscripts.      Earl    of    Mar    and     Kellie,       Cd.  2190 
at  Alloa  House,  N.B. 

1905  Ditto.     Lady  Du  Cane  Cd.  2367 

1905      Ditto.     Marquess  of  Lothian,   at    Blickling       Cd.  2319 

Hall. 

1905  Ditto.  Earl  of  Egmont.  Vol.  L  Part  I.  . .  Cd.  2318 
1905      Ditto.              Ditto.               Vol.  I.     Part  II.  Cd.   2570 

Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  II Cd.  4599 

1905  Ditto.     Duke  of  Rutland.     Vol.  IV.  . .       Cd.  2606 

1906  Ditto.     Earl  of  Verulam        Cd.   2973 

1906  Ditto.     (Franciscan)  at  the  Convent,     Mer-  Cd.   2867 
chants'  Quay,  Dublin. 

1907  Ditto.  Dean  and  Chapter  of  Wells  .  .  . .  Cd.  2810 
1907  Ditto.  Earl  of  Ancaster,  at  Grimsthorpe  . .  Cd.  3429 
1907      Seventeenth  Report  (containing  a  List  of       Cd.  3737 

the    owners   of   Manuscripts   upon    whose 
collections   Reports   have    been    made    to  , 
June,   1907.  1 

1911      Manuscripts.     Lord  Pol warth.     Vol.1.       ..        Cd.   5289 
Ditto.  Earl  of  Denbigh.     PartV...    :    Cd.  o.565 

Ditto.  Lord  Middleton t    Cd.   5567 


Ditto.  Pepy.s      Manuscripts.        Pre- 

served at  Magdalene  College,  Cambridge. . 


8.  d. 

2  9 

2  10 

2  9 

1  4 

I        1  9 

I        1  0 

2  5 
2  3 

2  6 

1  11 

2  3 

0  9 


2     7 


2 

6 

2 

2 

1 

8 

1 

9 

1 

3 

2 

9 

1 

4 

1 

4 

2 

11 

2 

7 

0 

11 

2 

11 

In 

the 

Press. 

In 

the 

Press. 

In 

the 

Press. 

31 


ANNUAL    REPORTS  OF    THE   DEPUTY   KEEPER 
OF  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS. 


REPORTS  NOS.  1-22,  IN  FOLIO,  PUBLISHED  BETWEEN  1840  AND  1861,  ARE  NO 
LONGER  ON  SALE.   SUBSEQUENT  REPORTS  ARE  IN  OCTAVO. 


I    No. 
Date.  ;     of 

Report 


1862 
1863 

1864 


23 
24 

25 


1865  i     26 


1866        27 


1867 


1S68 


1869 


28 


29 


30 


Chief  Contents. 


Proceedings 
Ditto 


Calendar  of  Crown  Leases,  33-38  Hen. 
VIII.— Calendar  of  Bills  and  An- 
swers, &c..  Hen.  VIII. — Ph.  and 
Mary  for  Cheshire  and  Flintshire. 
— List  of  Lords  High  Treasurer 
and  Chief  Commissioners  of  the 
Treasury,  from  Hen.  VII. 

List  of  Plans  annexed  to  Inclosure 
Awards,  31  Geo.  II.-7  Will.  IV.— 
Calendar  of  Privy  Seals,  &c.,  for 
Cheshire  and  Flintshire,  Hen.  VI.- 
Eliz. — Calendar  of  Writs  of  Gleneral 
Livery,  &c.,  for  Cheshire,  Eliz.- 
Charles  I. — Calendar  of  Deeds,  &c., 
on  the  Chester  Plea  Rolls,  Hen.  III. 
and  Edw.  I. 

List  of  Awards  of  Inclosure  Commis- 
sioners.— References  to  Charters  in 
the  Cartse  Antiquae  and  the  Con- 
firmation Rolls  of  Chancery,  Ethel- 
bert  of  Kent-James  I. — Calendar 
of  Deeds,  &c.,  on  the  Chester  Plea 
Rolls,  Edw.  II. 

Calendar  of  Fines,  Cheshire  and  Flint- 
shire, Edw.  I. — Calendar  of  Deeds, 
&c.,  on  the  Chester  Plea  Rolls, 
Edw.  III. 

Table  of   Law  Terms,  from   the 
Norman  Conquest  to  1  Will.  IV. 

Calendar  of  Royal  Charters. — Calen- 
dar of  Deeds,  &c.,  on  the  Chester 
Plea  Rolls,  Richard  II.-Henry  VII. 
— Durham  Records,  Letter  and 
Report. 

Duchy  of  Lancaster,  Records,  Inven- 
tory— Durham  Records,  Inventory. 
— Calendar  of  Deeds,  &c.,  on  the 
Chester  Plea  Rolls,  Hen.  VIIL— 
Calendar  of  Decrees  of  Court  of 
General  Surveyors,  34-38  Hen.  VIIL 
—Calendar  of  Royal  Charters. — 
State  Paper  Office,Calendar  of  Docu- 
ments relating  to  the  History  of,  to 
1800. — Tower  of  London.  Index  to 
Documents  in  custody  of  the  Con- 
stable of. — Calendar  of  Dockets, 
&c.,  for  Privy  Seals,  1634-1711.— 
Report  of  the  Commissioners  on 
Carte  Papers. — Venetian  Ciphers. 


C.  2970 
C.   3142 

C.  3318 


C.  3492 


C.   3717 


C.  3839 


C.  4012 


C.  4165 


Price. 


8.   d. 

0     4 
Out  of 
print. 
Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 

print. 


Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 

print. 


32 


Duchy  of  Lancaster  Records,  Calen- 
dar of  Royal  Charters. — Durham 
Records,  Calendar  of  Chancery 
Enrolments,  Cursitor's  Records. — 
List  of  Officers  of  Palatinate  of 
Chester,  in  Cheshire  and  Flint- 
shire, and  North  Wales. — List  of 
Sheriffs  of  England,  1.3  Hen.  I.  to 
4  Edw.  III. 
1871  32  Part  I.— Report  of  the  Commis- 
sioners on  Carte  Papers. — Calen- 
darium  Genealogicum,  1  &  2  Edw. 
II.  —  Durham  Records,  Calendar 
of  Cursitor's  Records.  Chancerj' 
Enrolments. — Duchy  of  Lancaster 
Records,  Calendar  of  Rolls  of  the 
Chancery  of  the  County  Palatine. 

1871  —  I  Part  II.  —  Charities ;  Calendar  of 
Trust  Deeds  enrolled  on  the  Close 
Rolls  of  Chancery,  subsequent  to 
9  Geo.  II. 

1872  33  I  Duchy  of  Lancaster  Records,  Calendar 
of  Rolls  of  the  Chancery  of  the 
County  Palatine. — Durham  Re- 
cords, Calendar  of  the  Cursitors' 
Records,  Chancery  Enrolments. — 
Reports  on  the  Shaftesbury  Papers. 
— Venetian  Transcripts.  —  Greek 
Copies  of  the  Athanasian  Creed. 

1873  34  ,  Durham  Records,  Calendar  of  the 
Cursitors'  Records,  Chancery  En- 
rolments.— Supplementary  Report 
on  the  Shaftesbury  Papers. 

1874  35  Duchy  of  Lancaster  Records,  Calen- 
dar of  Ancient  Charters  or  Grants. 
— Palatinate  of  Lancaster  ;  In- 
ventory and  Lists  of  Documents 
transferred  to  the  Public  Record 
Office. — Durham  Records,  Calendar 
of  Cursitors'  Records. — Chancery 
Enrolments. — Second  Supplemen- 
tary Report  on  the  Shaftesbury 
Papers. 

1875  36  Durham  Records,  Calendar  of  the 
Cursitor's  Records,  ("hancery  En- 
rolments.— Duchy  of  r^aneaster  Re- 
cords ;  Calendar  of  An  lent  Charters 
or  Grants. — Report  upon  Docu- 
ments in  French  Archives  relating 
to  British  History. — Calendar  of 
Recognizance  Rolls  of  the  Pala- 
tinate of  Chester,  to  end  of  reign  of 
Hen.  IV. 

1876  37  Part  I. — Durham  Records,  Calendar 
of  the  Cursitor's  Records,  Chancery 
Enrolments. — -Duchy  of  Lancaster 
Records,  Calendar  of  Ancient  Rolls 
of  the  Chancery  of  the  County 
Palatine. — List  of  French  Ambas- 
sadors, &c.  in  England,  1509-1714. 

1876  —  Part  II. — Calendar  of  Recognizance 
Rolls  of  the  Palatinate  of  Chester  ; 
Hen.  v.— Hen.  VII. 


C.   187 


d. 

Out  of 
print. 


C.  374 


Out  of 
print. 


C.  374-i. 


C.   r.20 


Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 
print. 


C.   728  19 


C.   1043 


Out  of 
print. 


C.   1301 


Out  of 
print. 


C.    1544 


Out  of 
print. 


C.  1544-i. 


Out  of 
print. 


33 


1877 

38 

1878 

39 

1879 

40     , 

1880 


41 


1881 


1882 


1883 


42 


43 


44 


Exchequer  Records,  Catalogue  of 
Special  Commissions,  1  Eliz.  to 
10  Vict.,  Calendar  of  Depositions 
taken  by  Commission,  1  Eliz.  to 
end  of  James  I. — List  of  Represen- 
tative Peers  for  Scotland  and  Ire- 
land. 

Calendar  of  Recognizance  Rolls  of 
the  Palatinate  of  Chester,  1  Hen. 
VIII.— 11  Geo.  IV.— Exchequer  Re- 
cords, Calendar  of  Depositions 
taken  by  Commission,  Charles  I. — 
Duchy  of  Lancaster  Records  ;  Cal- 
endar of  Lancashire  Inquisitions 
post  Mortem,  &c. — Third  Supple- 
mentary Report  on  the  Shafteshiiry 
Papers. — List  of  Despatches  of 
French  Ambassadors  to  England, 
1509-1714.  I 

Calendar  of  Depositions  taken  by 
Commission,  Commonwealth  — 

James  II.  —  Miscellaneous  Re- 
cords of  Queen's  Remembrancer 
in  the  Exchequer. — Durham  Re- 
cords, Calendar  of  the  Cursitors' 
Records,  Chancery  Eiu-olments. 
— Calendar  of  Duchy  of  Lancaster 
Patent  Rolls,  5  Ric.  II.— 21  Hen. 
VII. 

Calendar  of  Depositions  taken  bj' 
Commission,  Wilham  and  Mary  to 
George  I. — Calendar  of  Norman 
Rolls,  Hen.  V.,  Part  I.— List  of 
Calendars,  Indexes,  &c.,  in  the 
Public  Record  Office  on  31st  De- 
cember.   1879. 

Calendar  ot  Depositions  taken  bj' 
Commission.  George  II. — Calendar 
of  Norman  Rolls.  Hen.  V.,  Part  II. 
and  Glossary. — Calendar  of  Patent 
Rolls,  1  Edw.  I.  Transcripts  from 
Paris. 

Calendar  of  Privy  Seals,  &c.,  1-7 
Charles  I. — Duchy  of  Lancaster 
Records,  Inventory  of  Court  Rolls, 
Hen.  III. — Geo.  IV.  Calendar  of 
Privj'  Seals,  Ric.  II. — Calendar  of 
Patent  Rolls,  2  Edw.  I.— Fourth 
Supplementary  Report  on  the  Shaf- 
tesbury Papers. — Transcripts  from 
Paris. — Report  on  Libreiries  in 
Sweden. — Report  on  Papers  re- 
lating to  English  History  in  the 
State  Archives,  Stockholm. — Pi«- 
port  on  Canadian  Archives. 

Calendar  of  Patent  Rolls,  3  Edw.  I. 
— Durham  Records,  Cursitors'  Re- 
cords, Inquisitions  post  Mortem, 
&c. — Calendar  of  French  Rolls, 
1-10  Hen.  V. — Report  from  Venice. 
— Transcripts  from  Paris. — Report 
from  Rome. 


C.   1747 


C.  2123 


C.   2377 


C.  2658 


C.  2972 


•.  d. 

Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 
print. 


4     8 


4     0 


C.  3425 


C.  3771 


3  10 


3    e 


34 


Date. 


No. 

of 

Report 


Chief  Contents. 


No.  of 
I'u|ier. 


I'rice. 


1884        46 


1885        46 


1886        47 


1887        48 


1888 


40 


1889 

50 

1890 

r.i 

1891 

52 

1892 

53 

1893 

54 

1894 

55 

1895 

56 

189G 

57 

1897 

58 

1898 

59 

1899 

GO 

1900 

61 

1901 

62 

1902 

63 

1903 

64 

1904 

65 

1905 

66 

1906 

67 

1907 

68 

1908 

69 

1909 

70 

1910 

71 

1911 

72 

Duchy  of  Lancaster  Records,  Inven- 
tory of  Ministers'  and  Receivers' 
Accounts,  Edw.  I. — Geo.  III. — 
Durham  Records,  Cursitors'  Re- 
cords, Inquisitions  post  Mortem, 
&c. — Calendar  of  Diplomatic  Docu- 
ments.— Transcripts  from  Paris. — 
Reports  from  Rome  and  Stonk- 
hohn. — Report  on  Archives  of 
Denmark,  &c. — Transcripts  from 
Venice. — Calendar  of  Patent  Rolls, 
4  Edw.  I. 

Presentations  to  Offices  on  the  Patent 
Rolls,  Charles  II.  -Transcripts  from 
Paris.  Reports  from  Rome. — 
Second  Report  on  Archives  of  Den- 
mark, &c. — Calendar  of  Patent 
Rolls,  5  Edw,  I. — Catalogue  of 
Venetian  Manuscripts  bequeathed 
by  Mr.  Rawdon  Brown  to  the 
Public  Record  Office. 

Transcripts  from  Paris — Third  Report 
on  Archives  of  Denmark,  &c. — 
List  of  Creations  of  Peers  and 
Baronets,  1483-1646.— Calendar  of 
Patent  Rolls,  6  Edw.  I. 

Calendar  of  Patent  Rolls,  7  Edw.  I.— 
Calendar  of  French  Rolls,  Henry  VI. 
— Calendar  of  Privy  Seals,  &c., 
8-11  Charles  1. — Calendar  of  Diplo- 
matic Documents. — Schedules  of 
Valueless  Documents. 

Calendar  of  Patent  Rolls,  8  Edw.  I. — 
Index  to  Leases  and  Pensions 
Augmentation  Office). — C'alendar 
of    Star    Chamber    Proceedings. 

Calendar  of  Patent  Rolls,  9  Edw.  I.    . . 

Proceedings  

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto.  Account  of  the  Rolls  Chapel, 
with  eight  plates  of  the  Chnpel. 

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      . . 

Ditto       

Ditto       

Indexes  to  Printed  Reports,  viz.  : — 
Reports  1-22  (1840-1861)  (bound)  . 
„       23-39(1862-1878)        ..      .. 


C.   4425 


g.   d. 
4     3 


C,   4746 


C.  4888 


C.  5234 


C.   5596 


2   10 


2     2 


3     6 


3     3 


c. 

5847 

1 

2 

c. 

6108 

0 

2 

c. 

6528 

0 

H 

c. 

6804 

0 

2A 

c. 

7079 

0 

U 

c. 

7444 

0 

U 

,  c. 

7841 

0 

U 

c. 

8271 

1 

0 

c. 

8543 

0 

U 

c. 

8906 

0 

c. 

9366 

0 

.  Cd. 

245 

0 

Cd. 

617 

0 

Cd. 

1141 

0 

Cd. 

1620 

0 

Cd. 

2129 

0 

Cd. 

2536 

0 

Cd. 

2962 

0 

Cd. 

3439 

0 

Cd. 

4062 

0 

Cd. 

4624 

0 

Cd. 

6181 

0 

Cd. 

5722 

0 



10 

0 

— 

2 

0 

3r. 
SCOTTISH    KKCOiil)    PI  BLICATIONS. 

[Other  Works  Relating  to  Scotlanh  w  ii.i:,  be  I'otJNi)  a.mono  the  Pdblioa- 

TIONS    OF    THE    RECORD    COMMISSIONERS,    8ee.    pp.    20-21.) 


1.  ChBONICLES   OK  THE    I'lCTS  AND   SCOTS,   AND   OTUEU  EARLY  MEMORIALS  QV 

Scottish  History.     (Out  oj  print.) 

2.  Ledger  of  Andrew  Halybumton,  Conservator  ok  the  Privileges  of 

THE  Scotch  N.ation  in  the  Netherlands  (14y2-iri03)  ;  together 
WITH  the  Books  or  Customs  and  Valuation  of  Merchandises  in 
Scotland,   lt)12.     Edited  by  C.  Innes.      H)s. 

3.  Documents    Illustr.vtive   of  the   History   of   Scotland  Vkom   the 

Death  of  Kino  Ale.kander  the  Third  to  the  Accession  of  Robert 
Bruce,  from  original  and  autlioniic  copies  in  London,  Paris,  Brussels, 
Lille,  and  (Jlient.     Edited  by  the  Rev. .).  Stevenson.    2  Vols.     10«.  each. 

4.  Accounts   of   the    Lord    High    Treasurer   of   Scotl.\nd.      Vol.    I., 

473-14ys.  Edited  by  T.  Dickson;  Vol.  IL,  1500-1  o(M.  Vol.  IIL, 
150()-1507.  Vol.  IV.,  1507-L'>13.  Vol.  V.,  1315-15(1.  VoL  VL, 
1531-1538.  Vol.  VII.,  1538-1541.  Vol.  VIII.,  1541-154(5.  Edited 
by  Sir  J.  B.  Paul.      10/».  each. 

5.  Register  of  the  Privy  Council  of  Scotland.        Vol.  I.,   1545-1569. 

Vol.  II.,  15(>!)  1578.  Edited  and  arranged  by  J.  H.  Burton,  LL.D.  ; 
Vol.  IIL,  1578-1585.  Vol.  IV.,  1585-1592.  (Out  o/  print.)  Vol.  V„ 
1592-1599.  Vol.  VL,  1599-1004.  Vol.  VIL,  1604-1007.  Vol.  VIIL, 
1607-1610.  Vol.  IX.,  1610-1613.  Vol.  X.,  1613-1616.  Vol.  XL, 
1616-1619.  Vol.  XIL,  1019-1622.  Vol.  XIIL,  1022-1625.  Vol.  XIV., 
Addenda,     1545-1(>25.      Edited   by    D.    Masson,    LL.D.        15s.  each. 

5a.  Ditto,  Second  Series.  Vol.  J.  1625-1627.  Edited  by  D.  Masson,  LL.D.  ; 
Vol.  IL,  1627-1628.  Vol.  IIL,  1629-1030.  Vol.  IV.,  1630-1632, 
Vol.  v..  1633-1635.  Vol.  VL,  1635-1637.  Vol.  VIL,  1638-1043. 
Vol.  VIIL,  1544-1060.  Edited  by  l\  H.  Brown,  M.A..  LL.D.  155.   each. 

5b.  Ditto,  Third  Series.  Vol.  L,  lOoi  ~1()04.  NOl.  II'..  1065-1669.  \'ol.  III., 
1609-1072.  Edited  and  abridyed  by  P.  H.  Brown,  M.A.,  LL.D.  15«. 
each . 

6.  Rotuli    Scaccarii    Regum    Scotorum.     The    Exchequer    Rolls    of 

Scotland.  Vol.  L,  1264-1359.  Vol.  IL,  1359-1379.  Vol.  IIL, 
1379-1406.  Vol.  IV.,  1406-1436.  Vol.  V.,  1437-1454.  Vol.  VL, 
1455-1460.  Vul.  VIL,  1460-1469.  Vol.  VIIL,  1470-1479.  Vol.  IX., 
1480-1487.  Addenda,  1437-1487.  Vol.  X.,  1488-1496.  Vol.  XL, 
1497-1501.  Vol.XlL.  1502-ir,07.  Vol.  XIIL,  1508-1513.  Vol.  XIV., 
1513-1522.  Vol.  XV.,  1523-1529.  Vol.  XVL,  1529-1630.  Vol.  XVIL, 
1537-1542.  Vol.  XVIIL,  1543-1550.  Vol.  XIX  ,  1557-1567.  Vol.  XX., 
1568-1579.  Vol.  XXL,  1580-1588.  Vol.  XXIL,  1589-1594. 
Vol.  XXIIL,  1595-1000.  Edited  by  J.  Stuart,  LL.D.  (Vol.  I.)  ; 
G.  Burnett  (Vols.  I.  to  XIL)  ;  G.  Burnett  and  JE.  J.  G.  Mackay 
(Vols.  XIIL  and  XIV.)  ;  and  G.  P.  McNeil  (Vols.  XIV.  to  XXIII.) 
lOs.  each. 

7.  Calendar   of  Documents   Relating  to   Scotland,   preserved  in   the 

Public  Record  Office.  Edited  by  J.  Bain.  Vol.  L,  1 108-1272.  Vol.  IL, 
1272-1307.     Vol.   IIL,    1307-1357.     Vol.   IV.,    1357-1509.      15*-.   each. 

8.  Register  of  the  Great  Seal  of  Scotland.     Vol.  L,   1300-1424  (sec 

p.  21).  Vol.  IL,  1424-1513.  Vol.  IIL,  1513-1540.  Vol.  IV.,  1546- 
1580.  Vol.  v.,  1580-1593.  VoL  VL,  1593-1608.  Vol.  VIL,  1609- 
1620.  Vol.  VIIL,  1620-1633.  Vol.  IX.,  1634-1651.  Vol.  X., 
1652-1659.  Edited  by  J.  B.  Paul  (Vol.  II.)  ;  J.  B.  Paul  and 
J.  M.  Thomson  (Vol.  IIL);  J.  M.  Thomson  (Vols.  IV.  to  IX.);  J.  H. 
Stevenson,  M.A.,  and  W.  K.  Dickson,  M.A.  (Vol.  X.).     15s.  each. 

9.  The  Hamilton  Papers.     Letters  and  Papers  illustrating  the  Political 

Relations  of  England  and  Scotland  in  the  XVIth  Century.  Formerly 
•  in  the  possession  of  the  Dukes  of  Hamilton,  now  in  the  British  Museum. 
Edited  by  J.  Bain.  Vol.  I.,  1532-1543  ;  Vol.  IL,  1543-1590.  15s.  each. 
10.  Borders  of  England  and  Scotland.  Calendar  of  Letters  and 
Papers  relating  to  the  Affairs  of  the.  Preserved  in  Her  Majesty's 
Public  Record  Office,  London.  Edited  by  J.  Bain.  Vol.  L,  1560- 
1594  ;    Vol.  II.      1595-1603.      15.'!.  each. 

11  State  Papers  Relating  to   Scotland  and   Mary,   Queen  of  Scots. 

Calendar  of,  1547-1603.  Vol.  I.,  1547-1563  ;  Vol.  IL,  1563-1569. 
Edited  by  J.  Bain;  Vol.  IIL,  1569-1571;  Vol.  IV.,  1571-1574; 
Vol.  v..  1574-1581;  Vol.  VL,  1581-1683.  Edited  by  W.  K.  Boyd. 
15s.  each. 

12  Guide  to  the  Public  Records  of  Scotland.     By  M.   Livingstone, 

LS.O.     1905.     3s.  6d. 
18.  Register  of  the  Privy  Seal  of  Scotland.     Vol.  1 ,  1488-1529.   Edited 

by  M.  Livingstone,  LS.O.      15,s. 
FAC-amiLBS  of  the  National  MSS.  of  Scotland.     Patt«  L  11. .  and  III. 

{Out  of  print.) 


36 


HUSH    RECOKD     PUBLICATIONS. 


1.  Calendar  of  the  Patent  and  Close   Rolls  of  Chancery  in 

Ireland,  Henry  VIII.,  Edward  VI.,  Mary  and  Elizabeth, 
and  for  the  1st  to  the  8th  Year  of  Charles  1.  Edited  by 
J.  MoRRlN.     Vols.  I.  and  111.      lis.  each. 

2.  Ancient  Laws  and  Institutes  of  Ireland. 

Vols.  I.,  II.,  111.,  Senchus  Mor.     Vols.  IV.,  V.  Brehon  Laws. 
Vol.  VI.     Glossary.      10s.  each. 

3.  Annals  of  Ulster.     Otherwise  Annals  of  Senat,    a    Chronicle  of 

Irish  Affairs  from  431-1131,  1155-1541.  VVitli  Translation  and 
Notes.  Vol.  I.,  431-1056.  Edited  by  \V.  M.  Hennessy.  Vol.  II., 
1057-1131,  1155-1378;  Vol.  III.,  1379-1541;  Vol.  IV.,  Intro- 
duction and  Index.     Edited  by  B.  MacCarthy,  D.D.      10s.  each. 

4.  CHART.^i,  Privilegia,  et  Immunitates,  being  traascripts  of  Charters 

and  Privileges  to  Cities,  Towns,  Abbeys,  and  other  Bodies  Cor- 
porate. 18  Heni-y  II.  to  18  Richard  II.  (1171-1395).  Printed 
by  the  Irish  Record  Commission,  1829-1830.     5s. 

6.  Justiciary  Rolls,  or  Proceedings  in  the  Court  of  the 
Justiciar  of  Ireland.  23rd  to  31st  years  of  Edward  1.  1295- 
1303.     Edited  by  J.  Mills.      15s. 

6.    Statutes  and   Ordinances,  and  Acts  of  the  Parliament  of 
Ireland.      King  John  to  Henry  V      Edited  by  H.  F.  Berry, 
M.A.      lOs.     Coniiniied  by 
Statute    Rolls   of    the     Parliament    of   Ireland.      Vol.   II., 
Henry  VI.     10s. 


Fac-similes  of  National  Manuscripts  of  Ireland,  from  the 
earliest  extant  specimens  to  1719.  Edited  by  J.  T.  Gilbert. 
Part  I.  is  out  of  print  ;  Parts  II.  and  III.  21.  2s.  each ;  Part 
IV.— 1.     5/.  5s.  ;     Part  IV.— 2.      4L   10s. 

This  work  forms  a  comprehensive  Palteographic  Series  for 
Ireland.  It  furnishes  characteristic  sjjecimens  of  the  docu- 
ments which  have  come  down  from  each  of  the  classes  which, 
in  past  ages,  formed  principal  elements  in  the  population  of 
Ireland,  or  exercised  an  influence  in  her  affairs.  With  these 
reproductions  are  combined  facsimiles  of  writings  connected 
with  eminent  personages  or  transactions  of  importance  in  the 
annals  of  the  country  to  the  early  part  of  the  eighteenth  century. 

The  specimens  have  been  reproduced  as  nearly  as  possible  in 
accordance  with  the  originals,  in  dimensions,  colouring,  and 
general  appeeirance.  Chareicteristic  examples  of  styles  of  writing 
and  caligraphic  ornamentation  are,  as  far  as  practicable, 
associated  with  subjects  of  historic  and  linguistic  interest. 
Descriptions  of  the  various  manuscripts  are  given  by  the  Editor 
in  the  Introduction.  The  contents  of  the  specimens  are  fully 
elucidated  and  printed  in  the  original  languages,  opposite 
to  the  Fac  similes — line  for  line — without  contractions — thus 
facilitating  reference  and  aiding  effectively  those  interested  in 
palseographic  studies. 

In  the  work  are  also  printed  in  full,  for  the  first  time,  many 
original  and  important  historical  documents. 

Part  I.  commences  with  the  earliest  Irish  MSS.  extant. 

Part  II.     From  the  Twelfth  Century  to  1299. 

Part  III.     From  1300  to  end  of  reign  of  Henry  VIII. 

Part  IV. — 1.  From  reign  of  Edward  VI.  to  that  of  James  I. 

In  part  IV. — 2  the  work  is  carried  down  to  the  early  part 
of  the  eighteenth  century,  with  Index  to  the  entire  publication. 

AccotTNT  OF  Fac-similes  of  National  Manuscripts  of  Ireland.  In 
one  Vol.,  with  Index.  10s.  Or  separately  :  Parts  I.  and  II. 
together,  2s.  6d.  ;  Part  II.  Is.  6d.  ;  Part  III.  Is.  ;  Part  IV. — 
1.  2*.  ;    Part  IV.— 2.     2s.  Qd. 


37 

ANNUAL  REPORTS    OF    THE   DEPUTY  KEEPER 
OF  THE   PUBLIC  RECORDS.   IRELAND. 


No.    I 
Date.  '     of 

Report 


Chief  Contents. 


No.  of 
Paper. 


Price. 


I- 


1869 


1870 

1871 

1872 
1873 

1874 


1876 


1876 

8 

1877 

9 

1878 

10 

1879 

11 

1880 

12 

1881 

13 

1882 

14 

1883 


1884 


4 
5 


15 


16 


Contents  of  the  Principal  Record  Re- 
positories of  Ireland  in  1864. — 
Notices  of  Records  transferred 
from  Chancery  Offices. — Irish  State 
Papers  presented  by  Philadelphia 
Library  Company. 

Notices  of  Records  transferred  from 
Chancery.  Queen's  Bench,  and 
E.xchequer  Offices.  -Index  to 
Original  Deeds  received  from 
Master  Litton's  Office. 

Notices  of  Records  transferred  from 
Queens  Bench,  Common  Pleas,  and 
l^xchequer  Offices.—  Report  on  J.  F. 
Furguson's  MSS. — Exchequer  In- 
dices, &c. 

Records  of  Probate  Registries 

Notices  of  Records  from  Queen's 
Bench  Calendar  of  Fines  and  Re- 
coveries of  the  Palatinate  of  Tip- 
perary,  1664-1715. — Index  to  Re- 
ports to  date. 

Notices  of  Records  transferred  from 
Chancery,  Que.ms  Bench,  and 
Common  Pleas  Offices. — Report 
respecting  "  Facsimiles  of  National 
MSS.  of  Ireland." — List  of  Chancery 
Pleadings  (1662-1690)  and  Calendar 
to  Chancery  Roils  (1662-1713)  of 
Palatinate  of  Tipperary. 

Notices  of  Records  from  Exchequer 
and  Admiralty  Offices. — Calendar 
and  Index  to  Fiants  of  Henry  VIII. 

Calendar  and  Index  to  Fiants  of 
Edward  VI. 

Index  to  the  Liber  Munerum  Publi- 
corum  Hibernia\  —  Calendar  and 
Index  to  Fiants  of  Philip  and  Mary. 

Index  to  Deputy  Keeper's  6th,  7th, 
8th,  9th,  and  10th  Reports. 

Calendar  to  Fiants  ofEhzabeth  (1558- 
1570). 

Calendar  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth,  con- 
tinued (1570-1576). 

Calendar  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth,  con- 
tinued (1576-1583). 

Report  of  Keeper  of  State  Papers  con- 
taining Catalogue  of  Common- 
wealth Books  transferred  from 
Berminghaun  Tower. 

Calendar  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth,  con- 
tinued (1583-1586).— Index  to  De- 
puty Keeper's  11th,  12th,  13th,  14th 
and  16th  Reports. 

Calendar  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth,  con- 
tinued (1686-1695). 


a.   d. 
C.  4157       ;  Out  of 
print 


C.    137 

C.  329 

C.  515 
C.  760 

C.  963 


C.  3676 


C.  4062 


c. 

1175 

Out  of 
print. 

c. 

1469 

Out  of 

c. 

1702 

print. 

Out  of 

print. 

c. 

2034 

Out  of 

c. 

2311 

print. 
Out  of 

c. 

2583 

print. 
Out  of 

c. 

2929 

print. 
1     5 

c. 

3215 

0     6 

Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 

print. 

0     8 


Out  of 
print. 


1     0 


1     6 


38 


I 

'    No. 
Date.        of 

Report 


1885 

17 

1886 

18 

1887 

19 

1888 

20 

1889 

21 

1890 

22 

1891 

23 

1892 

24 

1893 

25 

1894 

26 

1895 

27 

1896 

— 

1896 

28 

1897 

29 

1898 

30 

1899 

31 

Chief  Contents.  f'a,or  ^''"''^®- 


a.    d. 
Report  on  Iron  Chest   ot   Attainders  C.   4487      '        1      6 

following    after    1(141    and    lliHS. — 

Queen's  Bench  Calendar  to  Fiants 

of  Elizabeth,  continued  (1596  l(iOl). 
Calendar  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth,  con-         C.  4755  I      1 

tinued  (1001-1603).     Memorandum 

on  Statements  (1702)  and  Declarona 

(1713-14)  of  Huguenot  Pensioners. 
Notice  of  Records  of  Incuniborod  and  C.   5185  0     6 

Landed  Estates  Courts. — Report  of  , 

Keeper  of  State  Papers,  containing 

Table   of   Abstracts   of   Decrees   of 

Innocence  (1663),  with  Index. 
Calendar    to    Christ    Church     Deeds         C.   5535  0     8  J 

in   Novum   Registrum,    1174-1084. 

Index  to  16th,  17th,  18th,  19th,  and 

20th  Reports. 
Index  to  Calendars  of  Fiants  of  the         C.   5835  1     0 

reign  of  Queen  Elizabeth.     Letters 

A— C. 
Catalogue    of    Proclamations,     1618-         C.  6180  0     2\ 

1660. 

Index  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth.   D— Z.        C.   6180-i  2     0 

Catalogue    of    Proclamations,     1661-         C.   6504  1      1 

1767. — Calendar  to   Christ   Church 

Deeds,  1177-1462. 
Catalogue    of     Proclamations,    1767-  |       C.  6765  0     9^ 

1875.     Contents  of  the  Red  Book 

of    the    Exchequer.       Calendar    to 

Christ  Church  Deeds,   1402-1602. 
Regulations  respecting  State  Papers.  C.   7170  0     3 

Instructions     for     Parochial     Cus- 
todians.      Index    to    2l8t   to    25th 

Reports. 
Abstract     of      Antrim      Inquisition,  C.  7488  0     3i 

3  James  I.,   Bankruptcy  Records, 

1857-1872  ;     Early    Plea    Rolls    to 

51  Edward  III. 
Index  to  the  Act  or  Grant  Books,  and       C.   7488-i.        Out  of 

to  Original  Wills,  of  the  Diocese  of  print. 

Dublin  to  the  year  1800. 
Records  from  Courts  and  Offices  trans-  C.  7802  0     2^ 

ferred    to,    and    deposited    at,    the 

Public  Record  Office  in  Ireland. 
Index  to  Calendars  of  Clu-ist  Church         C.   8080  0     5^ 

Deeds,     1174-1084,     contained     in 

Appendices  to  20th,  23rd,  and  24th 

Reports. 
(1.)  Report  on  the  Early  Plea  Rolls,  C.   8163  0     5^ 

continued  from    51    Edward  III. : 
(2.)  Table  showing  present  Custodies 

of  Parochial  Records. 
Copy  and  Translation  of  Five  Instru-  C.   8567  0     3 

ments    of    Record    in    the    Public 

Record  Office  of  Ii-eland,  written  in 

the    Irish    Character    and    Tongue, 

1584-1606. 
Report  on    MSS.    of  Sir  T.   Phillips'  C.  0030  0     3^ 

Library  ;  Index  to  Deputy  Keeper's 

26th  to  30th  Reports. 
Report  of  Proceedings,  and  Appendix         C    9478  0     oh 

(1.)  Corrections   to   the    Addenda   to 

the      Dublin      Grants      Index      in 

Appendix  to  the  26th  Report ; 
(2.)  Notes  on  the  Departmental  Letters 

and     Official     Papers,    1760-1789. 


39 


Date. 


No. 

of 

Report 


Chief  Contents. 


No.  of 
Paper. 


I 
1902  I     34 


1903        35 


1900  —  Index  to  the  Act  or  Grant  Book  and 
Original  VVilla  of  the  Dioceae  of 
Dublin  from  1800-1858. 

1900  32        Report  of  Proceedings  and  Appendix 
— Report   on    the    Records   of   the 
Clerks    of    the    Crown    and    Peace 
transferred  prior  to  1900. 

1901  38        Report  of  Proceedings  and  Appendix 
(1.)  Notes    on    Manuscript    Volumes 

connect<^d  with  the  Irish  Revenue, 
the  Court  of  Trustees  of  Forfeited 
Estates,  &c.,  in  the  possession  of 
Earl  Annesley  ; 

(2.)  Report  on  the  Books  of  the 
Treasury  and  Accounting  Depart- 
ments in  Ireland. 

Report  of  Proceedings  and  Appendix 

(1.)  List  of  Maps  presented  by  Com- 
missioners of  Woods  and  Forests  ; 

(2.)  Report  on  Register  of  Irregular 
Marriages,  1709-1844. 

Report  on  Proceedings  and  Appendix 

(1.)  Regulations  as  to  access  to  Mili- 
tary Records  ; 

(2.)  Records  found  in  former  Record 
Office; 

(3.)  Catalogue  of  Accounts  in  the  Pipe 
Rolls  ot  Irish  Exchequer,  Henry  HI. 

1904  36        Report  of  Proceedings  and  Appendix 
Catalogue  of  Acounta  in  the  Pipe 
Rolls  of  the  Irish  Exchequer.I  to  12 
Edward  I. 

1905  37  Report  of  Proceedings  and  Appendix 
Catalogue  of  Accounts  in  the  Pipe 
Rolls    of     the     Irish      Exchequer, 

15-22  Edward  I. 

1906  38        Report  of  Proceedings  and  Appendix 
(1.)  Rules  for  admission  to  the  use  of 

the  Records  ; 
(2.)  Catalogue  of  Accounts  in  the  Pipe 
Rolls  of  the  Irish  Exchequer,  25  to 
33  Edward  I. 

1907  39        Report  of  Proceedings  and  Appendix. 

Catalogue  of  Accounts  in  tlie  Pipe 
I       Rolls  of  the  Irish  Exchequer,  1  to  10 
'  I       Edward  II. 

1908  I     40     '  Report  of  Proceedings  and  Appendix 
(1.)  Report  on  certain  Records  trans- 
ferred  from   former   Land   Estates 
Record  Office  ; 

(2.)  Index  to  Reports  XXXL-XL. 

1909  41        Report  of  Proceedings  and  Appendix 

(1.)  List  of  Parishes  for  which  Regis- 
ters of  Baptisms  are  preserved  in 
Record  Office. 

(2.)  List  of  Parishes  for  which  Returns 
to  V^isitations  supply  deticiencies  in 
Parish  Registers. 

1910  I     42        Report  of  Proceedings  and  Appendix 
( 1 . )  Catalogue  of  Accounts  in  the  Pipe 

Rolls  of  the  Irish  Exchequer,  12  to 

1 9  Edward  II. 
(2.)  Memorandum       on        "Catholic 

Qualification  Rolls." 
(3.)  Regulations   as  to  admission   to 

State  Papers  in  Record  Tower. 


Cd.  4 


Cd.  274 


Cd.  4312 


Price 


«.    d. 
4     7 


0     6 


Cd.   729  0     5 


Cd.   1176  0     2i 


Cd.   1504  0     3 


Cd.   2234  0     4J 


Cd.   2708  0     3 


Cd.  3162     :       0     5J 


Cd.  3726  0     4 


0     2i 


Cd.  4857  0     2 


Cd.   5421  0     4 


/ 


DA  25 

.D319 

V.13 

IMS 

Great 

Britain.  Pl 

iblic 
:lose 

Record 

Calendar  of 

the  ( 

rolls 

preserved  in 

the 

Public  Reco 

QF     MEOtAEVAL    SnUDl 
50     QUEEN'S     PARH 


