

=== [HathiTrust seq 1] ===
 
 
 
 
 THONORS 


 
 
 ND 


 KGHTS FLES 


 
 
 VOL III 


 
 
 FARRER 


 
 
 HD 594 


 F24 V.3 


 
 
 SI 


 
 
 Aa 


 
 
 USTAD MANCHESTER UNIVERSITY 


 PRESS 


 1925 . 


 
 
 SOLEM 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 1 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 2] ===
 
 
 
 
 t 


 
 
 **** . 


 
 
 SILAS WRIGHT DUNNING BEQUEST 


 UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN GENERAL LIBRARY 


 
 
 ܕܠܪ . ! 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 3] ===
 
 
 HD 594 


 
 
 = 24 


 
 
 v . 3 


 
 
 → ok 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 4] ===
 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 5] ===
 
 
 HONORS 


 AND 


 
 
 KNIGHTS ' FEES 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 6] ===
 
 
 Published by the University of Manchester at THE UNIVERSITY PRESS ( H. M. McKECHNIE , M.A. , Secretary ) 


 23 LIME GROVE , OXFORD ROAD , MANCHESTER 


 
 
 LONGMANS , GREEN & CO . LONDON : 39 Paternoster Row , E.C. 4 NEW YORK : 55 Fifth Avenue TORONTO : 210 Victoria Street BOMBAY : 336 Hornby Road CALCUTTA : 6 Old Court House Street MADRAS : 167 Mount Road 


 
 
 · 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 7] ===
 
 
 
 
 HONORS 


 
 
 AND 


 
 
 KNIGHTS ' FEES 


 AN ATTEMPT TO IDENTIFY THE COMPONENT PARTS OF CERTAIN HONORS AND TO TRACE THE DESCENT OF THE TENANTS OF THE SAME WHO HELD BY KNIGHT'S SERVICE OR SERJEANTY FROM THE ELEVENTH TO THE FOURTEENTH CENTURY 


 
 
 WILLIAM FARRER , Litt.D. 


 
 
 BY 


 
 
 WITH A PREFATORY NOTE BY 


 JAMES TAIT , Litt.D. , F.B.A. 


 
 
 ARUNDEL 


 
 
 VOLUME III 


 
 
 EUDES THE SEWER 


 WARENNE 


 
 
 Manchester London , New York , & c . - 


 
 
 AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS LONGMANS , GREEN & Co. 


 
 
 1925 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 8] ===
 
 
 0.32 992 151 


 
 
 # 1 


 
 
 امی 


 
 
 1 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 9] ===
 
 
 PREFACE 


 
 
 THE author had only read the earlier proofs of this volume at the time of his sudden death of heart - failure , at Mosjöen in Norway , on Sunday , August 17 , 1924. He had been unwell but was not supposed to be in danger , and the day before his death he wrote . cheerfully to Mr. John Brownbill , looking forward to an early return to England , and making arrangements about the book . 


 It was characteristic of Dr. Farrer that the work in which he took so keen an interest should have been in his mind to the last . It was no less characteristic that these studies in feudal genealogy , on a scale never before attempted in this country , should have been the final development of the modest investigations into his own yeoman ancestry which had first introduced him to this field of research nearly forty years before . 


 Born on February 28 , 1861 , the second son of William Farrer Ecroyd , a Burnley manufacturer , and afterwards M.P. for Preston , Dr. Farrer was descended paternally from the Ecroyds of Fold House in Briercliffe , who came there in 1544 from Yorkshire , where they can be traced back to the fourteenth century , and the Farrers of Grayrigg near Kendal . In later life he repurchased both the old homesteads . 


 
 
 Until the age of thirty - five he was engaged in the family business , but his interest in his own genealogy had already widened into a study of local history , and local history in no narrow sense , for he was already planning a history of Lancashire , and in 1895 , the year of his marriage , purchased the extensive collections for such a history made by J. P. Earwaker . It was not , however , until the next year , when the provisions of the will of his great uncle , William Farrer ( whose name he took ) , enabled him to retire from business , that the preliminary work began to advance rapidly . He settled down to a country life . He was fond of fishing and shooting in summer , and remained so to the end . For a time also he hunted , but this he soon gave up . The long winters were thus left free for the task which became more and more engrossing . The then standard history of Lancashire by Edward Baines , though several times re - edited , was very weak on the medieval period . Little of the rich material for the history of that period preserved in the Public Record Office and elsewhere was in print , and Dr. Farrer had to begin by organising its transcription and publication . The Court Rolls of the Honor of Clitheroe ( 1897 ) , his first book , was followed by a long series of such volumes , published either , like the Court Rolls , at his own expense , or by the local printing societies . The most important of these were the Chartulary of Cockersand 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 10] ===
 
 
 vi PREFACE 


 
 
 Abbey ( Chetham Socięty , 1898 , etc. ) , Lancashire Fines ( Record Society , 1899 , etc. ) , Lancashire Pipe Rolls and Early Charters ( 1901 ) , and Lancashire Inquests and Extents ( Record Society , 1903 , etc. ) . Carefully edited , well indexed , and supplied with valuable notes , these volumes showed how widely and deeply the foundations of the projected history were being laid . A first instalment , The History of the Parish of North Meols , was published in 1903 , but negotiations had already begun which ended in the merging of Dr. Farrer's scheme in that of the Victoria County Histories . This involved a somewhat embarrassing change of plan . Chiefly interested in the medieval period , which most needed elucidation , and anxious to keep his task within manageable limits , he had fixed the reign of Elizabeth as his downward limit . On the Victoria scheme , the work had to be continued to the present day . This enlargement and the consequent labour of condensing the mediaval material was met by the appointment of Mr. John Brownbill as co - editor and by external contributions , but traces of the original scheme may still be detected in the fuller space given to the mediæval sections . If that scheme had been adhered to on the scale indicated by the history of North Meols parish , it seems doubtful , despite its more limited scope , whether even Dr. Farrer's industry could have carried it to completion . The advantages of collaboration are well illustrated by the rapid appearance of the Victoria History of Lancashire , at the average rate of a volume a year , between 1906 and 1914. While it was still in progress , the merits of the work as a conspicuous embodiment of the high ideals of thorough ness and accuracy set before themselves by the founders of the Victoria County Histories and still more as a great personal achieve ment were recognised by the conferment of honorary distinctions upon the senior editor by the universities of Manchester and Liverpool , and by an invitation to succeed the late Sir Adolphus Ward as president of the Chetham Society . The last he resolutely declined . He had an invincible aversion for public appearances , and he only consented to serve as vice - president on the understanding that he should not be expected to preside at meetings . 


 Of the general articles in the first two volumes he was re sponsible for those on the Lancashire Domesday and the Feudal Baronage , the two subjects to which he had devoted special attention . In the first he brought a ripened scholarship to the discussion of difficult problems with which at an earlier date he had been the first to grapple in papers communicated to the Transactions of the Lancashire and Cheshire Antiquarian Society , problems which even Dr. Round had preferred to leave to others . As the Lancashire Domesday and that of Yorkshire are to some extent parts of one story , it was natural that the general editor of the Victoria County Histories should call upon him for an introduction to the latter . In dealing with this far heavier task , Dr. Farrer put forth interesting theories as to the carucate assessment of Yorkshire and the north western lands dependent upon her before the Conquest , which can only be fruitfully criticised by a scholar with a wide knowledge of early conditions in these regions . 


 
 
 +3 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 11] ===
 
 
 PREFACE vii 


 
 
 This diversion to Yorkshire , a county in which , as we have seen , he had an hereditary interest , and in which he had lived for some years , is otherwise important as deciding more or less directly the work that he was to take up on the completion of that which had occupied him for twenty years . For some time before the appear ance of the last volume of the History of Lancashire , he was already hard at work collecting and editing the Yorkshire charters of earlier date than 1200 , as he had done for Lancashire in 1902 , being rightly convinced of the vital importance of this class of material for the history of the age preceding the institution of the great series of Public Records . But this was a task of very different magnitude . Half a volume had contained the Lancashire charters of that date , whereas three much fuller volumes of Early Yorkshire Charters ( 1914-1916 ) , containing nearly 1900 documents , brought the collec tion down no further than Mortimer ' in the alphabetical order of fees . Material for a fourth volume was ready , but no more was published , and the editor turned to other work . The expense of publication had greatly increased with the sharp rise in printing costs , Dr. Farrer was dissatisfied with the amount of local support he received , and perhaps he was already becoming attracted towards a less local treatment of the great feudal fiefs . It has been very generally felt to be a misfortune that a work of such great value not merely to the local antiquarian , but to the general historian and the student of diplomatic , should be left incomplete and without an index . It is to be hoped that the efforts which are now being made in Yorkshire to secure its continuation may be successful . 


 6 


 
 
 Difficulties experienced in dating the charters led to incidental researches , two of which took shape in valuable contributions to the English Historical Review , an article on The Sheriffs of Lincolnshire and Yorkshire 1066-1130 , ' and what is somewhat too modestly entitled ' An Outline Itinerary of Henry I. ' This Itinerary , ' which analyses some 750 charters and other documents issued by Henry and fills over 150 closely packed pages , has been published separately with an index , and forms an indispensable supplement to Professor Davis's Regesta of the charters of William I and William II . 


 
 
 While this was in preparation , Dr. Farrer's main line of research had also ceased to be centred in the north . He turned from Yorkshire to the Midlands and from the publication of charters as , among other things , throwing light on the descent of feudal fees to definite history of such descents drawn from all available sources . He had not yet , however , realised that the only satisfactory way of treating this subject was to bring together all the fees of each great honor or barony , irrespective of the counties in which they happened to lie . His Feudal History of Cambridgeshire ( 1920 ) therefore formed a false start , valuable as it is to the purely local genealogist . That he should have been slow in reaching the idea of a history of Honors and Knights ' Fees is not , however , surprising . The county , though not a natural unit in feudal history , is a traditional and practical one . To ask the local 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 12] ===
 
 
 viii PREFACE 


 
 
 genealogist , in the name of logic , to buy a great deal more than he needed , or at least thought he needed , was to incur a risk of loss which no commercial publisher would have faced , and which even he could not regard lightly . In the preface to the first volume ( 1923 ) Dr. Farrer has fully explained the advantages of the new method of treatment even for the local genealogist , who may , for instance , find the families in which he is interested seated in other counties on fees of the same honor , under the same or different surnames . To the historical student it provides , inter alia , a much clearer and more precise means of estimating the local influence of great feudal magnates than has been hitherto available . 


 
 
 Though the artificial arrangement by counties has been abandoned , it was part of the scheme to group together in each volume as far as possible honors which were mainly represented in a certain group or groups of counties . Thus the fees of the three honors , Arundel , Colchester ( Eudes the Sewer ) , and Warenne , in cluded in the present volume , lay predominantly in Sussex , Essex , and East Anglia . It will be observed that a few honors , e.g. Petworth and Halnaker , were offshoots of or subordinate to these larger complexes and are dealt with under them . Many interesting details of feudal usage and history are incidentally disclosed . The description of St. Pancras by the earl of Warenne as my patron and the caput of my honor ' ( p . 312 ) and of the advowson of Knebworth church as the caput of his honor , without which he could not have seisin ( p . 208 ) , is curious . A grim story of the murder of an heir by his younger brother , the parson of the parish , appears at p . 283. As will be seen from casual references in the text , Dr. Farrer left a further nine or ten honors in a more or less advanced stage of preparation . It is hoped that some of these , which include Gloucester , Abingdon , Giffard , D'Oyley , and Wallingford , may yet see the light . 


 
 
 Although , as already stated , the proofs of this volume had not the advantage of Dr. Farrer's final revision , and he had expressed an intention of making some changes , only the most obvious slips have been corrected by Mr. John Brownbill , who has seen the work through the press , or by myself , who have read the proofs in page form . 


 
 
 Of minor evidences of Dr. Farrer's multifarious activity , mention must be made of the two volumes which he contributed to the Lancashire Parish Register Society ( Register of Burnley , 1899 , and Register of Over Kellet , 1911 ) , and of the large collection of material for the history of the barony of Kendal which he placed in the hands of the Cumberland and Westmorland Archæological Society for publication , and which has appeared in two volumes of their Record Series ( 1923 , 1925 ) under the editorship of Mr. John F. Curwen , and with an introduction by Dr. Farrer . In Westmorland , as the cradle of the Farrers , he was always interested , and it was in one of their homes , Whitbarrow Lodge in Witherslack , that the last years of his life were spent . Here he built a spacious and beautiful library for the great collection of transcripts and books which he had gradually accumulated . At all times , the former 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 13] ===
 
 
 PREFACE ix 


 
 
 were freely placed at the disposal of the Chetham and Lancashire and Cheshire Record Societies for publication and of private students for their work . One of these has told me how he took lodgings in the neighbourhood and spent several hours a day for two or three weeks in the library . A strong preference for country life and a certain personal reserve made Farrer rather a solitary worker , but both at home and by correspondence he liked to discuss plans and problems with those engaged in the same fields of research . By all these he will be greatly missed , but he has left an enduring monument in the fruitful work of many strenuous years . 


 
 
 In the prefaces to previous volumes of Honors and Knights ' Fees , ' Dr. Farrer acknowledged the services rendered by Mr. Brownbill in searching for and extracting relevant information from chartularies and other unprinted materials in the British Museum and the Public Record Office , as well as in assisting to pass the work through the press . These acknowledgments are again due to him , and the last - named in larger measure , as the book was only in first proof at the time of its author's death . The index is the work of Mr. Thomas Price . 


 JAMES TAIT . 


 
 
 WITHINGTON , 


 
 
 MANCHESTER , 


 
 
 May 6 , 1925 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 14] ===
 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 15] ===
 
 
 CONTENTS . 


 
 
 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER , OR COLCHESTER 


 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 INDEX 


 
 
 PAGE 


 1-163 


 164-295 


 296-443 


 445 


 
 
 1 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 16] ===
 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 17] ===
 
 
 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 Introduction . 


 
 
 Place . 


 
 
 1. Petworth , Suss . 


 1. ( 1 ) Cocking , Selham , Suss . 


 
 
 1. ( 2 ) Tillington , Grittenham , Suss . 


 1. ( 3 ) Barlavington , N. Marden , Suss . 


 
 
 Honor of Petworth 


 
 
 I. ( 4 ) Bignor , Glatting , & c . , Suss . 1. ( 5 , 12 ) Stedham , Suss . 


 1. ( 6 ) Burton , Suss . 


 I. ( 7 ) Heyshott , Suss . 


 1. ( 8 ) Sutton , Suss . 


 1. ( 9 , 15 ) Linchmere , Suss . 


 1. ( 10 , 16 ) Duncton , Suss . I. ( II , 13 ) 


 I. ( 14 ) Dodelesfold , Fernhurst , Suss . 


 
 
 2. Goring , Preston , & c . , Suss . 3. Pulborough , Suss .. 


 4. Nutburne by Pulborough , Suss . 


 
 
 7 . 


 8. North Stoke , Suss . 


 9. South Stoke , Suss . 


 
 
 4. ( 1 ) Binstead , Merston , Suss . 


 5. Greatham , Tortington , Suss . 


 6. Marden , Offham , & c . , Suss . 


 
 
 10. Bilsham , Suss . 


 II . Chithurst , Suss . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 12. Treyford , Cudlow , Suss . 


 13. Sunworth , Hants . 


 14. Halnaker , & c . , Suss . Bilton , Warwks . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Honor of Arundel 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 15. Graffham , Suss . 


 16. Hambledon , Hants . 


 17. Up Marden , Bosham , & c . , Suss . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 . Corbelin - Hauterive . Ralph - Saunzaver . 


 Hospital of Portsmouth . Budeketon . 


 
 
 · 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 · 


 
 
 Tenant's Name . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Louvain — Percy . Alan - Fitz - Ralph Bavent . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Percy . 


 Demesne . 


 
 
 Glanvill - Arderne . 


 
 
 Reading . 


 
 
 Tresgoz . 


 Fleming - Huse L'Isle . Belmeis - La Zouche . Oismelin . 


 
 
 Dunstanvill - Montfort . 


 Falaise Gundevill . 


 
 
 . Toeni . 


 
 
 Toreini - Aguillon . Esturmi - Champvent . 


 
 
 Girros - Fitz - Alan . 


 Cauz - Nevill the 


 Forester . 


 
 
 Avenel . 


 Morin . 


 
 
 Vilers — Viene . Sunworth - Clare . Hay - St . John . 


 
 
 Chesney - Dive . Pantulf . 


 Bohun . 


 
 
 III . B 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 18] ===
 
 
 2 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 Place . 


 18. Lyminster , Suss . 


 
 
 19. Angmering , Suss . 20. Nutbourne ( by Chichester ) 21. Martinsgrave , Drayton , Suss . 


 
 
 22. Hinton Daubeny , Hants . Binderton , Suss . 


 
 
 23. Catherington , Hants . 24. Storrington , Suss . 


 
 
 25. Martinsgrave , Suss . 


 26. Harting , Suss . 


 27. Aldsworth , Suss . 


 28. West Dean , Chilgrove , Suss . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 32. Wade Court , Hants . 33. Funtley , Hants . 


 Drayton , Hants . 34. Nytimber , Hants . 


 35. E. and W. Preston , Suss . 


 36. Wepham , Suss . 


 37. Bilsington , Kent 


 
 
 29. Preston Candover , Hants . 30. La Wyke 


 30. ( 1 ) Fishbourne , Climping , Eastergate , Littlehampton , Suss . 


 30. ( 2 ) Runcton , Upwaltham , 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Suss .; 


 Hayling , Hants .; Horsley , Glos . 30. ( 3 ) Lyminster , Climping , Sussex . 30. ( 4 ) Penton Mewsey , Hants .; & c . 31. Warningcamp , Suss . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Tenant's Name . 


 Harang - Wauncy Heuere . 


 Broc - Rokesle . Aguillon . Fresne - Fitz - Alan 


 Picheford . 


 
 
 Cumbrai - Aubigny . Cumbrai - Orval Savoy . Praers Tyrel . Humez ( ? ) - Lovel— Tresgoz . 


 Fresne - Gatesden . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Hose . 


 La Roche . 


 Rufus 


 Watevill . Le Bret . 


 
 
 La Wade - Romeyn . 


 . Hauvill ( Hoivill ) . 


 Beaumont - Saunford . 


 
 
 Blund 


 Sandervill , Child . 


 
 
 Abbey of Sées . 


 Abbey of Troarn . 


 Abbey of Almanesche . Turald . 


 Hautrive ( de Alta Ripa ) -Paynel . 


 
 
 P 


 
 
 Honors of Buckenham and Rising 


 38. Holkham , Wramplingham , & c . , Norf . Muntchenesy . 39. Flitcham , Stanhoe , Norf .. 40. Loddon , Inglose , Norf . 41. Snetterton , Tottington , Norf . 


 42. Stoke Holy Cross , Norf . 


 43. Sandringham , Dersingham , Norf . 44. Bedingham , Woodton , Norf . 45. Broome , Blo ' Norton , Norf . 


 
 
 Sturmi - Falconer . Toeni - Milliers 


 Tresgoz . Dinan - Maunsel― Chauvent . Curci - Maunsel Sandwic . 


 
 
 M 


 
 
 Belfou ( de Bella Fago ) . Ingelose . 


 Hunstanton 


 L'Estrange 


 Chesnei - Fitz - Osbert 


 
 
 Shelton . Brom . 


 
 
 Rikinghale . Valoignes - Comyn . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 19] ===
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 3 


 
 
 Place . 


 46. Burnham , & c . , Norf . 


 
 
 47. Barkeston , Suff . 


 48. Thorington , Suff . 


 49. Congham , Snettisham , Norf . 


 50. Gasthorpe , Norf . 


 51. Snetterton , W. Harling , Norf . 


 
 
 52. Grimston , Docking , Norf . 


 53. Besthorpe , Norf . 


 54. Seething , Norf . 


 
 
 55. Shotesham , Norf . 56. Snettisham , Norf . 57. Hale Holme , Norf . 58. S. Wootton , Norf . W. Newton , Norf . 


 
 
 59. Eccles , Norf . 


 60. Wilby , Norf . 


 61. Fring , Snettisham , Norf . . 


 
 
 62. Brettenham , Norf . 63. Banham , Norf . 


 64. Wymondham , Norf . 


 65. Tuddenham , Norf . 66. Stanhoe , Norf . 67. Middleton , Norf . 68. Baconsthorpe , Norf . 


 
 
 · 


 
 
 69. Happisburgh , Norf . 70. Hunstanton ( ? ) , Norf . 


 
 
 73. Overland , Kent 


 74. Stowting , Buckland , Kent 75. Unknown 


 76. Oxroad , Mount , Kent 


 
 
 · 


 
 
 Barkeston . Wachesham . Rustein - Thorp . Gatestorp - Berdewell . 


 . Herling - Bukenham Belfou . 


 Docking - Grimston . Bavent - Fitz - Osbert . Seinges - Gerberge Caltorp . 


 Ho ( Howe ) . Hacun . 


 Verli . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Tenant's Name . 


 Le Veltre Caltorp 


 Snitterton . 


 
 
 · 


 
 
 P 


 
 
 Stutevill - Bulemer . Stutevill - Bukenham . 


 
 
 Gerner - Parker . Hareham - Boyland . Athelburch ( ? ) — In goldestorp . 


 Rohinges . Rising . 


 Noth . 


 
 
 Straton - Manteston . 


 
 
 Stanhow . 


 Scales . 


 Bacun vel Bacunthorp 


 vel Hengham . Milliers . 


 
 
 Mustervill ( ? potius Mus 


 teroil ) . 


 Saunzaver . 


 
 
 Unknown 


 71. Ringleton , Knowlton , Kent 


 Pirot , of Count of Eu . 


 72. Beninden , Matham , Rolvenden , & c . , Maiham , of Count of Eu 


 Kent . 


 -Bohun and Mal meyns . Valoignes Leyburn 


 & c . , of Count of Eu . Harengot , of Count of Eu . Milliers , of Count of Eu . . Costentin Oxrode , of Count of Eu . 


 
 
 INTRODUCTION 


 The honor of Arundel , as it was constituted during the period 1136 to 1243 , consisted of the following members : 


 
 
 The castle and honor of Arundel with the members in Sussex , Hampshire and Warwickshire , held temp . Henry II for the service of 88 knights ' fees.¹ It consisted of the rapes 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 20] ===
 
 
 4 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 of Arundel and Chichester and included Arundel Castle , part of the city of Chichester , and 6 or 7 manors in Hampshire , including Chalton with its members . 


 The honor of Petworth , a member of Arundel , having been originally the fief of Robert Fitz - Tetbald , sometime sheriff of Arundel , with the members in Sussex and Shropshire , held for the service of 224 knights ' fees.2 


 The fief of William de Aubigny , the butler , and his suc cessors , in Norfolk and Suffolk , of which the chief manor was that of the bishop of Bayeux at Castle Rising . In the honor of Rising William de Aubigny I enfeoffed 22 knights of his demesne lands.³ 


 
 
 The Domesday fief of Robert son of Corbucion , with the service of 15 knights who had been enfeoffed of their fees before Henry I gave that fief to William de Aubigny.4 


 The fee of 10 knights of the land of Roger Bigod ( d . 1107 ) which Henry I gave to William de Aubigny with Matilda daughter of the said Roger in marriage , while the honor of Bigod was in the king's wardship.5 These fees included 5 fees of the land which Ralph son of Herlwin ( n . 41 ) held in 1086 , and 5 fees , of which the Domesday tenants have not been identified with certainty . 


 The service of 12 knights ' fees which Ralph , son of Godric ( n . 38 ) the king's sewer in 1086 , held in chief of Henry I ; to which appear to have been added the manors of Buckenham , Kenninghall and Fersfield , unless they had been given already in augmentation of the fief of Robert son of Corbucion . 


 The service of Alfred de Athleburch of 2 knights held in chief of Henry I. 


 The service of Picot de Bavent of 1 fee similarly held . The service of Reiner de Saunzaver of 1 fee similarly held . The service of William de Mustervill ( ? de Musteroil ) of I fee similarly held.6 


 
 
 Upon his demesne in Kent William de Aubigny I enfeoffed knights of 11 fees ( nos . 71-75 ) , which John count of Eu held in 1166 in marriage with Alice his wife , daughter of William earl of Arundel.7 


 
 
 These fees in Norfolk and Suffolk totalled 76 knights ' fees in 1168.8 Sum total of the whole honor of Arundel , temp . Henry II , 1861 fees . 


 
 
 The details of the Domesday fief of earl Roger de Montgomery in Sussex will be found in The Victoria County History of Sussex ( vol . i . 421–34 ) ; that in Hampshire in the same work ( V. C. H. Hants . i . 477-8 ) . The late Mr. Eyton shewed that 3 manors in Shropshire , namely Idsall , Kemberton and Woodcote , were held by Robert Fitz - Tetbald of earl Roger de Montgomery and were later associated more or less with the honor of Petworth.9 So much has been written about Arundel , its earls , castle and honor that the writer must be excused for confining his observations to the following brief notes ; the curious reader being referred to 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 21] ===
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 5 


 
 
 Tierney's History of Arundel , Mr. Round's observations on the earldom of Arundel in Geoffrey de Mandeville , the earldom of Arundel in The Complete Peerage ( ed . Gibbs , i . 230-63 ) , and The Early Genealogical History of the House of Arundel by John Pym Yeatman . 


 Earl Roger de Montgomery died 27 July , 1094. He was suc ceeded in his English possessions by his younger son , Hugh , who died s.p. in 1098 , when Robert de Bellême , count of Alençon , earl Roger's elder son , was permitted by William II to succeed to the English possessions of his younger brother . Actively supporting Robert duke of the Normans in 1102 he was attainted and exiled , whereupon his English estates became forfeited to the crown.10 


 
 
 William de Aubigny was in possession of a fee in Norfolk in the time of William II.11 He was styled ' butler , ' as early as ro March , II01,12 by virtue of his office of ' magister pincerna Regis . ' Mr. Round has preserved some notices of this office and its holders in The King's Serjeants ( 140-165 ) , where the thorny question whether the office had been granted as a territorial serjeanty or as an office in gross is discussed , preference being given to the latter view ( p . 164 ) . If , however , the former view were correct , Mr. Round is of opinion that the Kentish manor of Bilsington ( n . 37 ) possesses the best claim to be the corpus of the territorial serjeanty . Henry I , prior to 1110 , while at Winchester , Roger le Poer being bishop and ( ? ) chancellor , notified archbishop . Anselm , Hamon the sewer and the barons of Kent of his confirmation to St. Andrew's , Rochester , of land , tithes and woodland given by William de Aubigny , namely tithe of Elham of the king's demesne and the land of I plough , the woodland that Robert son of Watson held of the said William and the moiety of the tithe of Bilsington of the king's demesne.13 


 
 
 William de Aubigny , as pincerna Henrici regis Anglorum , ' founded at Wymondham the cell of St. Mary and St. Alban and gave it to the abbey of St. Albans during the time of abbot Richard , who died in 1119. 14 From the records of a dispute between Robert abbot of St. Albans and William de Aubigny , earl of Arundel , about the year 1164 , touching the church of Happisburgh , it appears that the founder issued no charter of foundation , nor were there then existing any charters relating to the foundation of the cell save one of Henry 1.15 This confirms what one would expect from the text of the 2 charters , which purport to be the founder's deeds , namely that they were drawn up long after the date of the gifts which they record.16 The second of the founder's alleged charters has for witnesses , Geoffrey de Merlai ( n . 39 ) , Ralph Fitz - Godric ( n . 38 ) and his brother Eudes , William Veltre ( n . 46 ) , Albert Francigena ( n . 52 ) and his brother Reginald , William Revel , William de Curcion , who gave land and his tithe of Stanfield , Norf . , William de Milliers of Happisburgh ( n . 69 ) , Ralph de Estre , Morel de Merlai and others , including Adeliza Bigot mother of Matilda , the deceased wife of the founder , Agnes de Belfou ( occ . 1130 ) , her daughter Almude and niece Muriel.17 


 
 
 The confirmation of Henry I , issued at London during the period 1123-1133 , recites the following gifts of the founder : 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 22] ===
 
 
 6 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 The church of Wymondham and tithes of the demesne and men there , a court , two mills , certain lands and 10 librates of land and the men who held in the manor under the earl of Warenne . 


 In Buckenham land for a vicarage . 


 The manor of Happisburgh with the church and market , except the land of Ansgot the chamberlain ( n . 49 ) . 


 The church of Snettisham with I carucate . 


 
 
 In Burnham 2 carucates and a mill . 


 Tithes of two - thirds of the demesnes of Burnham , Flitcham , Pickenham , Grimston , Congham and Rising.18 


 
 
 By agreement made at Northampton ( in 1164 ? ) , in the dispute above referred to , the gift of the church of Rising and certain tithes confirmed by the charter of Henry I was annulled.19 William earl of Warenne by his letters addressed to Robert his sewer confirmed to the monks of Wymondham the land which William de Aubigny , ' pincerna regis , ' held of him in the manor of Wymondham.20 The date seems to be 1140-1148 . 


 William de Albineio , the king's butler , gave to the monks of St. Andrew , Rochester , all the tithe of his vill of Elham , Kent , with I car . of land in Achestede and Acholte wood , both in Elham ; and half the tithe of Bilsington ; and this for the souls of his lord king William , of Henry the king , and of grantor's brother Nigel and his nepos Humphrey.21 


 The Pipe Roll of 1130 tells us that William de Aubigny , ' pin cerna , ' was then in possession of lands in Kent , doubtless including Bilsington ( n . 37 ) and land in Elham , in respect of which he was as ' pincerna ' pardoned 16s . of the past danegeld ( 1129 ) and a like amount in respect of the current charge ( 1130 ) .22 In respect of his different fiefs in Norfolk and Suffolk he was pardoned £ 13 7s . of danegeld , representing an estate of 133 carucates of land.23 The honor of Arundel was then in the king's hands , as it had been doubtless since 1102. William de Pont de L'Arche was farmer at a set farm of £ 249 8s . per annum , out of which the sum of £ 22 7s . 8d . had been expended in the works of the castle ; William Chienewe was in receipt of a living of 4 pence per diem ; he extinguished his fine for having seisin of the land and ministry of William de Witeweie ; he was also pardoned danegeld in Norfolk of 2s . 3d . Pain de Clairvaux was pardoned £ 81 6s . 8d . of the old farm of Harting for 2 years and still owed £ 58 13s . 4d , of the old farm of the same manor and £ 22 13s . 4d . of increased farm , apparently assessed on the manor by the new farmer , Pont de L'Arche , 24 


 
 
 William de Aubigny attested at Portsmouth , prior to the king's crossing to Normandy in 1137 , Stephen's charter to St. Denis , Southampton , as pincerna . ' 25 He died on All Saints ' Day , 1139.26 By his wife , Matilda Bigod , he had issue William de Aubigny II , born about IIIO , who married , in or before 1138 , Adeliza the queen dowager , with whom he acquired the honor and castle of Arundel with its member of Petworth . After Stephen's 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 23] ===
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 7 


 
 
 accession or upon succeeding his father he took the oath of allegiance to Stephen . Queen Adeliza appears to have been friendly to the empress Matilda , who made the port near Arundel ( named in Domesday ) her place of debarkation upon her arrival in England on 30 September , 1139. Robert of Torigni states that William de Aubigny , Adeliza's husband , had invited the empress , who was accompanied by her kinsman , Robert earl of Gloucester , to stay at Arundel.27 When however Stephen appeared before the castle and commenced to lay siege to it , Adeliza , fearing the consequences of her hospitality , apologized to Stephen , who magnanimously permitted the empress to depart in peace to Bristol.28 In after years William de Aubigny was a supporter of Stephen . 


 As earl of Lincoln ' he confirmed to Reading abbey in 1139 or 1140 the manor and church of Easton , Herts . , as granted to the abbey by queen Adeliza his wife , and land with the church of Stanton Harcourt , Oxon . , which tenements had been given to the queen by Henry I. Among the witnesses were Eudes Fitz - Alan , Alard the Fleming of Pulborough ( n . 3 ) , Geoffrey Tresgoz of Goring ( n . 2 ) , Robert de Calz ( n . 9 ) , Pain de Vilers of Trayford ( n . 12 ) , Alan Pirot of Ringleton and Knowlton ( n . 71 ) , William de Cuini ( n . 58 ) , and Morel de Merlai ( ? n . 39 ) . As the editors of Facsimiles of Charters in the British Museum ( of which the above is n . 14 ) state , William de Aubigny attested as earl of Lincoln a charter of Stephen late in 1139 or early in 1140 ; 29 but the grant of lands in Lincolnshire made by Stephen by a charter printed by Mr. Round in Ancient Charters 30 to William earl of Lincoln was probably in favour of William de Roumare . 


 
 
 William de Aubigny II thus occurs in 1139-40 as earl of Lincoln ; in 1141 as earl of Sussex ; in 1143 he was described as earl of Arundel and tenant of ( Little ) Waltham , Essex ; in 1147 as earl of Chichester.31 In the Pipe rolls of Henry II he was invariably described as ' Comes Willelmus de Arundel . ' As earl of Chichester he , queen Adeliza , William and Godfrey their sons gave in 1150 to their mother church of Chichester the prebend of West Dean and East Dean , Suss.32 As earl of Chichester he was instrumental in arranging the treaty of 1153 , whereby the crown continued with king Stephen for life.33 


 
 
 Prior to his wife's death , which occurred at Affligam in Flanders on 24 March , 1151,34 William earl of Chichester notified William bishop of Norwich of his confirmation to the monks of Wymond ham , for the health of his soul and of queen Adeliza and their children , of the gifts made by his father to the said monks . The witnesses were : queen Adeliza , William son of the earl , Alard the Fleming ( n . 3 ) , Ralph son of Savary ( n . 17 ) , Thomas de Arden ( n . 1 ( 9 ) ) , Adam son of Alvred ( n . 61 ) , Morel de Merlai ( n . 39 ) , Roger de Verli ( n . 57 ) , Ranulf de Hernum ( ? de Cuini , n . 58 ) , Hervey de Ingelose ( n . 40 ) , Matthew son of Alvred , Godfrey son of Albert ( n . 52 ) , Ranulf Sanz Aveir ( n . 1 ( 4 ) ) , and 5 others.35 


 
 
 In 1151-1152 William de Aubigny , earl of Chichester , founded an Augustinian priory in honor of St. Mary , St. James and All 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 24] ===
 
 
 8 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 Saints in his manor of Old Buckenham , Norf . , granting to it with other lands 80 acres in his park with the site of the castle and the castle itself , which was to be destroyed . Among the witnesses were earl Hugh Bigot , Hubert de Muntchenesy , Adam son of Alvred ( n . 61 ) , Reginald de Brun ( n . 41 ) , Ralph de Bucheham ( n . 51 ) , Richard son of Hacun ( n . 56 ) , Godfrey son of Albert ( n . 52 ) , Hervey de Ingelose ( n . 40 ) , William de Frainei ( n . 21 ) , and Warin de Muntchenesy ( n . 38 ) .36 The editors of Facsimiles of Charters ( Brit . Mus . ) note that earl William built a new castle in New Buckenham subsequently to the above foundation . 


 In 1156 Henry II confirmed to him as ' William earl of Arundel ' the castle of Arundel with the whole honor of Arundel and all its appurtenances , and granted to him the third penny of the pleas of the county ( court ) of Sussex ' unde comes est , ' to hold with all liberties and free customs belonging to the said honor and castelry , as Henry I had had that honor when he held it in his demesne.37 The proof of the date of this grant is found in the charge made by the sheriff of Sussex in 1157 , for the first time , Comiti de Arundell in tercio denario comitatus xii.li. et xiii.s. et iiii.d. per breve regis . ' 38 The Great Inquest of Service taken . in 1212 states that Henry I held the rape of Arundel as his escheat , that his grandson , Henry II , afterwards held it and gave it to William earl of Arundel , grandfather of earl William , living in 1212 , to hold by the service of 84 knights.39 


 
 
 Some indication of certain of the earl's holdings in Norfolk is supplied by the remission to him of murder fines , 40 namely : 


 
 
 Of £ 10 for murders on Shropham hundred , 65s . 4d . 


 Forehoe Gallow 


 19s . 6d . 9s . 3d . 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 £ 5 £ IO 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 In Shropham hundred the earl held Old Buckenham and lands in Snetterton and Shropham ; in Forehoe hundred lands in Wymondham and Wramplingham ; in Gallow hundred lands in Burnham Overy and South Creake . There were at that time no murder fines in Freebridge hundred , in which Castle Rising lay . In 1162 the earl of Arundel's scutage in Warwickshire amounted to 20s.41 This was in respect of Bilton ( n . 14 ) . 


 The carta of the earl of Arundel , preserved amongst the returns made in 1166 , was of an unusual character . It states that con tention having arisen between the knights of the honor of Arundel touching a certain army of Wales ( 1165 ? ) , our lord King Henry chose four knights of the honor of the best , eldest and most liege , namely Humphrey de Sarcillis ( n . 14 ) , Ralph son of Brun , William de Favarches ( n . 14 ? ) and Peter de Hamton ( n . 14 ) , and caused them to make a recognition of the service of the knights of the honor , and would listen to no one who questioned their ruling and oaths . Their recognition supplied the details of tenure stated below at nos . 1 to 17 , as it was towards the end of Henry I's reign and during Stephen's . The carta further records that King Henry gave certain lands of his demesne which the earl had appointed to military service , namely the tenures described under nos . 18 to 28 , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 25] ===
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 9 


 
 
 which appear to be contemporary , i.e. existing in 1166. Further , that the earl had in Candover in Hampshire the service of one knight ( n . 29 ) , and that there were 13 men who were enfeoffed at the earl's hand of land of his demesne by knight's service ( namely of 13 knights ' fees ) .42 These may have been of new feoffment ( nos . 30-37 ) . The total service appears to have amounted to 110 knights ' fees , a figure difficult to reconcile with the 84 fees of Henry's grant and of the Pipe rolls of his and his successors ' reigns , save on the assumption that a beneficial service was fixed in 1156 in favour of the earl towards the crown , leaving the earl to exact scutage and relief from his tenants upon a larger number of knights ' fees . 


 
 
 The carta of William de Aubigny of his honors of Buckenham and Castle Rising and lands in Kent was also abnormal in that the knights named belonged to divers periods , ranging from the time of Henry I to 1166. It opens with a statement of the fees noted near the beginning of this introduction , as follows : 


 
 
 This is the tenement of William de Aubigny , king's butler , of the gift of King Henry I , who gave him of the fee sometime of Corbuchiun 15 enfeoffed knights ; and afterwards gave him a fee of 10 knights enfeoffed of the land of Roger Bigod with the daughter of Roger Bigod'de manu sua ' ; and afterwards gave him the service of Ralph son of Godriche of 12 knights ; and the service of Alvred de Athelburch of 2 knights , of Picot de Bavent of I knight , the fee of Reiner Saunzaver ( Sine Averio ' ) of I knight and the fee of William de Mustervill ( ? Musteroil ) of I knight ; sum : 42 knights enfeoffed in his own barony . 


 
 
 The carta proceeds : The butler enfeoffed 22 knights of his own demesne in Norfolk ( nos . 39 , 43 , 46 , 49–51 , 52 , 56–58 and 67 ) . And the butler enfeoffed II knights in Kent in his demesne , which ( John ) count of Eu then ( 1166 ) had in marriage with ( Alice ) daughter of the earl of Arundel ( nos . 71-75 ) .43 


 
 
 In 1168 , to the aid for marrying the king's daughter Matilda , William de Aubigny , pincerna , owed in Norfolk 76 marks for his knights , which sum was pardoned in 1171 ; 44 in Sussex the earl of Arundel owed £ 56 6s . 8d . to the same aid for his knights ( pardoned in 1175 ) ; Joscelin the castellan paid 22 marks for 22 knights of the fee of Petworth , whom the earl of Arundel claimed as of his fee ; similarly Randulf de Bealmes ( n . 4 ) paid £ 4 , Geldewin son of Savary ( n . 17 ) 1 mark , Rolland de Dinan ( n . 36 ) for 2 knights of his fee of Wepham paid 2 marks , Ralph de Toeni ( n . 35 ) 2 marks for 2 fees , Walter de Dunstanvill ( n . 5 ) owed 3 marks for 3 knights , John de Tresgoz and Philip de Tresgoz ( n . 2 ) owed 3 marks for 31 knights . Of these n . 17 denied his liability , as too did nos . 35-36 , while nos . 5 and 2 stated that the numbers of knights charged against them were of overcharge of the earl of Arundel ' ; the charges in these two cases being ultimately pardoned.45 


 In 1171 the farmer of the bishopric of Chichester claimed allowance for £ 10 paid to William de St. John towards the repair 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 26] ===
 
 
 ΙΟ HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 of Arundel castle.46 


 In 1172 Robert de Praeres ( n . 23 ) , Rolland de Dinan ( n . 36 ) , Ralph de Toeni ( n . 35 ) , and Joscelin the brother of the queen ( n . 1 ) , accounted to the scutage of Ireland under the Pipe roll heading ' De his qui cartas non miserunt . ' 


 The earl died 12 October , 1176 , at Waverley , having had issue by queen Adeliza 4 sons ; 47 whereupon the charge of 20 marks on the farm of Sussex for the third penny of pleas of the county was suspended for the year ending at Michaelmas , 1176 ; 48 but was renewed in the following years in favour of the succeeding earl , earl William de Aubigny . ' The honor of Arundel was taken into the king's hands upon the late earl's decease and so remained until the accession of Richard . The issues were : 49 


 as 


 Farms 


 1176-77 1177-78 of Manors , £ 141 18 2 including : 


 The vill of Arundel and 2 mills Martinsgrave 


 Berges ( in West Dean ? ) Land of Baldwin the 


 Despenser 


 
 
 1178-79 £ 147 13 9 £ 125 18 10 


 
 
 32 0 


 
 
 5 0 O 


 4 0 9 


 
 
 41 7 5 


 
 
 68 


 A confirmation to the monks of Boxgrove issued by William earl of Arundel within the period 1156-1176 was made for the health of King Henry son of the empress Matilda , by whose gift the grantor held the honor of Arundel , for the soul of queen Adeliza , and the souls of Olive his sister ( n . 37 ) , Olive his daughter , and Agatha who was buried at Boxgrove . Among the witnesses were : Humphrey de Milliers , Robert de Praeres , Robert Aguillun , Richard Aguillun , Gilbert de Sandervill , Ralph Saunzaver and Roger de Chesnei . 50 


 
 
 In 1180 the sums of £ 72 7s . 8d . and £ 40 13s . were respectively expended in restocking the honors of Arundel and Petworth.51 In 1181 the new farm of the honor , including the farm of Bromley , was £ 381 18s . 5d . , out of which 2d . per week for 4 years past was paid to the recluse of Hastings , 20s . to the church of St. Mary de La Pré from I hide in Singleton , and a mark to Richard de Wade for carrying hawks over seas to King ( Henry ) , the king's son . Out of the farm of Petworth , of £ 132 8s . 6d . , a livery of 2d . per week was made to the recluse of Stedham and 20s . to the canons of Merton from the second mill of Duncton.52 Next year the farm of the honor of Arundel was the same ; additional allowances included 100s . for the land of Geoffrey the falconer in Pebmers and £ 9 8s . to the leper sisters of St. James's , Arundel . Considerable sums of money were being expended yearly on Arundel castle , this year amounting to £ 145 2s . 5d . The farm of Petworth and the allowances were unchanged . 53 


 
 
 In 1184 the earl was described as ' earl William of Sudsex . ' In 1185 under the honor of Petworth Gervase de Pette paid relief of Ios.54 In 187 the scutage of Galloway was levied on the knights . of the honor of Arundel , namely £ 84 10s . on 84 knights ' fees ; 5 


 55 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 27] ===
 
 
 INTRODUCTION II 


 
 
 a tallage was levied on the borough of Arundel and on Singleton , Midhurst , Westbourne , Stoughton , Easebourne ( Eselburna ) , Stretlington ( Strathanton ) , Martinsgrave , Rustington , Petworth , Tillington , Linchmere , Cocking , Duncton , Sutton , Stedham , Berges , and Compton.56 Down to the last year of Henry's reign the farms of the honors of Arundel and Petworth respectively remained as last described ; but debts of £ 365 6s . 1od . remained due in 1189 for 6 years past from the men of the earl of Arundel and the men of Joscelin the queen's brother , of which full details were given in 1189 , namely : 


 
 
 Honor of Arundel 57 


 Richard de la Roche in Westbourne 


 Monks of Boxgrove Canons of Tortington Safrid the falconer Albert the clerk Ralph Gernagan Canons of Durford William Ruffus 


 Park land and where the court of East Dean 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 was set 


 Ranulf de Broc 


 Land where Chichester castle was set 


 
 
 Honor of Petworth 58 


 Monks of Reading land in the manor of Pet worth and Tillington given by Joscelin the castellan 


 
 
 Elbode the knight , given by the same 


 William Wiritle ( Writeler ) , given by the same Grundelay , an exchange for the Park 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Hoctot 


 Ernald le Holer Menbroc 


 Chapel of St. Thomas 


 Joscelin Regalis . Enlargement of the park Geoffrey de Wimbis 


 Quinchat 


 Manor of Folkington and Sutton of Hugh de 


 Fokinton 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Ralph son of the castellan 


 William the clerk 


 
 
 Ralph son of Peter 


 William son of Arthur 


 Land in the Park 


 Simon de Wavre . Jona . 


 
 
 Land worth yearly . 


 S. d . 


 8 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 70 


 62 O 


 
 
 20 O 


 22 


 6 


 53 


 I 


 54 4 


 62 IO 


 5 


 0 


 
 
 8 0 


 бо 


 O 


 IO O 


 
 
 100 0 


 52 


 O 


 0 


 
 
 бо 


 
 
 ON ♡♡ 


 
 
 2 


 
 
 O 


 0 


 O 


 O 


 ΤΟ 0 6 0 O 


 20 


 3 0 


 
 
 3 


 
 
 3 


 12 


 
 
 26 


 84 


 
 
 5 


 7 


 I 


 
 
 6 


 6 


 
 
 O 


 8 


 
 
 3 0 


 44 6 


 40 IO 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 28] ===
 
 
 12 H HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 & 


 
 
 Canons of Durford Church of Cocking 


 Joscelin nephew of Joscelin ( the castellan ) 


 Terry the cook 


 William de Hautrive 


 Canons of St. Bernard 


 Thurstan the clerk 


 William son of Alan 


 Amfrey de Palingesham 


 
 
 · 


 
 
 d . 


 S. 


 13 4 


 2 O 


 
 
 £ 10 14 


 
 
 0 


 13 6 


 
 
 I 3 6 6 


 ΤΟ 


 O 


 I O 


 
 
 3H 


 
 
 £ 55 19 6 


 King Richard , by his charter dated at Montrichard , 27 June , 1190 , confirmed ( and restored ) to William earl of Arundel the castle and honor of Arundel and the third penny of the pleas of Sussex , whereof he was earl.59 This earl married Matilda relict of Roger earl of Hertford ( d . 1173 ) and died 24 December , 1193,60 leaving William , third earl of Arundel , his son and successor . As William earl of Sussex he had given to the monks of Wymondham a detailed confirmation of their possessions , for the souls of his father William earl of Arundel , who was buried there , and his mother Athelidis the queen . This charter was attested by the grantor's son William de Albini , his wife Matilda the countess , and his brother Reyner . 61 Another confirmation is printed in the Monasticon ( iii . 332 ) . 


 
 
 Richard I , in 1189 , confirmed for life to Alured de St. Martin a grant made by Henry count of Eu , after the death of Alice the mother of Alured , of Alice's dower lands in Elham and Bilsington , Kent . 62 Alice daughter of William earl of Arundel had received the Elham fee on marriage with John de Eu . As Adeliza countess of Eu and daughter of queen Adeliza and earl William de Arundel she gave to Horton all the land of Risden which Goldwin held.63 This was confirmed by John count of Eu.64 


 In 1194 , in Norfolk , William earl of Arundel owed £ 100 for relief of his land . 65 As William earl of Sussex he confirmed to the monks of L'Essay the gifts of his ancestors , namely Roger de Aubigny , William the butler , for the health of the souls of William his father , son of queen Adeliza , and of Matilda his mother , in cluding lands in Normandy and whatever dame Avice , wife of Roger de Aubigny , gave to the abbey with the consent of her husband and sons , William and Nigel , the church of Bilsington which Ralph de la Hay gave ( n . 37 ) , and lands of the honor of Aubigny.66 By a confirmation made to Boxgrove priory , as William earl of Sussex , he confirmed the gifts of the illustrious earl William , his grand father , and inter alia gave land in Stoughton . This was attested by Godfrey de Aubigny , younger son of the second earl , Richard de Percy ( Perce ) , Roger Rusteng ( Rusteon ) , Philip de Tresgoz and Richard his son , Peter Blund , Hugh Esturmi , William de Hauterive and Robert his son . 67 To Wymondham , in king Richard's life time , he confirmed the gifts of William de Albigny his ancestor , the king's butler , William earl of Arundel his grandfather , and William earl of Sussex his father , and of his barons and men.68 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 29] ===
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 13 


 
 
 In 1203 the earl had a grant of market and fair at Wymondham.69 The manor of Waddon , Bucks . ( Giffard , n . 1 ) , late of Adeling de Marcil , a Norman , was granted to him in 1207 , together with the manor of Fakenham , Norf.70 The former estate was in 1212 described as having been formerly of William de Humet and the latter as late of Walter de Segn [ ur ] e , a Norman , and worth £ 52 4s . Ed . yearly.71 


 
 
 From Shropham hundred it was presented in 1212 that William earl of Arundel then held Buckenham in chief of the king , and that William de Aubigny , his grandfather , had given to the church of St. James of Buckenham 2 carucates of that fee in alms ; from Guiltcross hundred that the earl held Kenninghall in chief 72 ; from Forehoe that he held Wymondham similarly ; from Diss hundred that he had a wood and five homagers in the vill of Fersfield held of the king , which king Richard had restored to the earl's father , but whether as his inheritance or for his service the jurors knew not 73 ; from Freebridge that the earl held Rising of the king 74 ; from Smithdon that he held Snettisham , which belonged to his barony.75 In the same year William earl of Arundel accounted for 500 marks for the custody of lands late of Robert de Tateshale and of the heir , with his marriage , paying Robert's debt to the king.76 


 The earl remained faithful to John until near the end of that king's reign , but in 1216 the constable of Rising had authority to obtain timber from the wood of John de Bovill of Bawdsey ( ? ) , the king's enemy , to strengthen the earl of Arundel's castle of Rising.77 On Henry's accession he returned to allegiance and recovered such seisin of his lands as he had had when he withdrew from the service of John the king's father.78 In December , 121S , the sheriff of Sussex was directed to give him 20 marks of the issues of that county which he ought to have and used to have nomine comitis Susexie . ' 79 Returning from the crusade by way of Damietta he died at Cainell , near Rome , on the kalends of February ( 1 Feb. ) , 1221 , his body being brought to England by his companion , Thomas , a monk of St. Albans , and buried at Wymondham.80 By his wife Mabel , sister of Ranulf earl of Chester , he had issue William his successor , Hugh who succeeded his brother , and 6 daughters , as described in vol . ii , pp . 9-10 . 


 $ 1 


 William de Aubigny , the 4th earl , gave £ 100 for his relief and had livery of his inheritance in April , 1221. The manors of Fakenham and Waddon , of the Normans ' land , were delivered to him early in 1221 , as those which his father had received of the bail of king John.82 Of Fakenham , Norf . , it was presented in 1212 that it had been in the demesne of Henry I , who gave it to Hugh Capel by the service of 2 knights ' fees , from whom it descended to Hugh Seinure and so to Walter his son and from Walter to his daughters ; from them it fell into the hands of king John , as the land of Poer , and the king gave it to the earl of Arundel who held it at the date of the presentment.83 In 1241 Hugh de Aubigny , earl of Arundel , was required to surrender the manor of Fakenham to the king as his escheat of the Normans ; the earl pleaded that his father was seised thereof at his death , and that respondent's 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 30] ===
 
 
 14 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 brother , whose heir he was , did homage for the same and likewise died seised ; that respondent after being in ward of the king made fine for his inheritance and obtained livery of the said manor with his inheritance , for which the king took his homage ; further he pleaded that when Normandy was lost his father , being then with king John and in no way desiring to withdraw from his service , lost all his possessions in Normandy , whereupon king John gave him in recompense the manors of Fakenham and Waddon ; this he proved by the testimony of knights who saw and heard of the gift in the year of the birth of Henry III.84 The sequel is recorded below . By the surrender of earl Hugh in 1243 the king gave the manor of Fakenham to Beatrice countess of Provence , 85 the queen's mother . In 1275 the queen held it by the gift of the said countess.86 


 William , 4th earl of Arundel , died without issue in 1224 , Hugh his brother and heir being then under age and in the king's ward ship . In 1233 Hugh gave 2500 marks for seisin of his inheritance and castles until he attained his age and for the lands late of Ranulf earl of Chester and Lincoln , his maternal uncle , which pertained to him ; until he attained his age three of his knights were to keep his castles so that no loss might accrue to the king , namely Hugh Saunzaver ( in place of William de Hautrive ) of the castle of Arundel , Thomas de Ingoldestorp of the castle of Rising , and Roger de Brom of the castle of Buckenham.87 He was of age on 10 May , 1235 , when his said castles , then in the king's custody , were delivered to him , the 3 wardens named above being directed to give him possession of the castles in their respective charges . 


 In 1240 the king forbad the bishop of Chichester imposing a sentence of excommunication upon the earl of Arundel's lay fee which he had threatened if the earl entered the chase ( of Houghton ? ) to hunt where the respective predecessors of the earl and bishop had always in the past hunted in common.89 In 1242 the king directed that the earl should have his writs for having the scutage of his knights so soon as he had sent 5 knights to perform the service ( in Gascony ) due to the king.90 In the same year earl Hugh surrendered the manor of Waddon to the king , who bestowed it upon John Fitz - Geoffrey ; in the ensuing year the earl similarly surrendered the manor of Fakenham , whereupon the king gave it ( as above ) to his mother - in - law , Beatrice countess of Provence . 91 Hugh died on 7 May , 1243. Six months later the castle and manor of Buckenham were assigned to Robert de Tateshale , son of Robert de Tateshale , eldest born of the late earl's heirs ; the castle and manor of Arundel to John son of John Fitz - Alan , the second heir , then in the king's wardship ; Roger de Somery , who espoused Nicholaa or Nicole , sister and one of the heirs of the said earl , obtained as chief messuage a manor parcel of the earldom of Chester ; the manor and castle of Rising was assigned to Roger de Mohaut , who espoused Cecily , second sister and 4th heir of the said earl ; the manor of Bilsington , Kent ( n . 37 ) , to which pertained the serjeanty of king's butler , was retained in the king's hands as land of the Normans . 92 To Isabel the earl's relict were assigned the manors of Wymondham and Kenninghall for her support 


 
 
 88 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 31] ===
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 15 


 
 
 until her dower was assigned . 93 Subsequently the manors of Westbourne and Stanstead with the hundred of Westbourne , Suss . , the manor of Olney , Bucks . ( Chester , n . 4 ) , the manor of Snettisham and hundred of Guiltcross , Norf . , and manor of Pleshy , Essex , were assigned to her in dower ; 94 while the Norfolk hundred of Smithdon was assigned in lieu of lands in the manors of Writtle and Little Waltham , Essex , previously assigned.95 On 10 January , 1244 , a projected tournament at Buckenham was forbidden.96 


 4 


 The accounts of the collection of the scutage of Gascony in 1242-3 show that there were then contributory 69 knights ' fees of the honor of Arundel in Sussex , 97 about 41 fees in Hampshire , 98 I fee in Bilton , Warws . , and possibly about fee in Shropshire , leaving about 10 fees to complete the total service of 841 fees . No contemporary statement exists of the service due from the honors of Buckenham and Rising , but to the king's sister's aid of 1235-6 Hugh de Aubigny paid £ 64 6s . 8d . in respect of 481 fees in Norfolk , 99 which figures , after allowing for about 91 fees in Kent , 100 show a great reduction of service from the 76 fees of the time of Henry II . It is important to note that lands of the honor of Chester of the inheritance of Hugh de Aubigny and his heirs general , as well as lands of the inheritance of the Fitz - Alans , later earls of Arundel , were frequently described in feodaries of the time of Edward I and later as held of the honor of Arundel , where that name is a misnomer . 


 
 
 In 1274 inquiry was made as to the privileges of the men of the abbot of Fécamp in the hundred of Poling ( Palling " ) . It was alleged that when they were amerced for any offence to the lord of Arundel they had been accustomed to give security for the fine to the lord's bailiffs , the amercement being afterwards taxed before these bailiffs , in presence of the abbot's bailiffs , by lawful men of the hundred . The sums so due were collected by the abbot's bailiffs for his use . The abbot's men had been accustomed to pay 40s . a year to the lord of Arundel at the term of Hokeday , but had refused to pay this after the death of Hugh de Albini . The king ordered that the abbot should receive the amercements as formerly , but deferred a decision as to the 40s . until his arrival in England.101 In 1284 there was a further inquiry as to the infringement of the rights of the lord of Arundel , 102 


 
 
 The assignment of knights ' fees of the honor to three of the four heirs was made in 1244 and enrolled on the Close roll , 103 those assigned to the countess in dower having been enrolled in the previous year.104 The assignment made to Roger de Mohaut was not enrolled ; but the details of the tenements and fees that he obtained are recoverable from the enrollment on the Patent roll for 1335 of the surrender made by Robert de Morlee , kinsman and heir of Robert de Mohaut , late steward of Chester , to queen Isabel of the tenements that had fallen to Roger de Mohaut in 1243 of the Arundel inheritance.105 


 
 
 After the temporary forfeiture of Edmund Fitz - Alan , earl of Arundel , in 1326 , the castle and honor of Arundel were given to Edmund earl of Kent , who in turn was attainted and beheaded 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 32] ===
 
 
 16 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 in 1330. During that period lands in the honor were said to be held of the earl of Kent , 106 as will be seen in the sections following . In 1331 Richard Fitz - Alan , son and heir of Edmund , obtained restitution.107 He He made settlements of the honor in 1347 and 1353.109 


 
 
 Roff . ( Hearne ) , 173 . 24. Ibid . 42 , 95 . 


 
 
 3. Red Bk . 


 14 Hen . II , 21 . 


 1. Red Bk . 200-2 ; Pipe R. 14 Hen . II , 194. 2. Ibid . 398. 4. Ibid . 397 . 5. Ibid . 6. Ibid . 398. 7. Ibid . 8. Pipe R. 9. Hist . of Salop , iii . 1. 10. The Complete Peerage ( ed . 11. Davis , Regesta , i . n . 373. 12. Farrer , Itin . of Henry I , n . 20. 13. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 195 ; Farrer , Itin . of Hen . I , n . 54. 14. Gesta Abb . S. Albani , i . 67 , 166 . 15. Ibid . 167-175 ; Mon. Anglic . iv . 333 . 16. Mon. Anglic . iv . 330 , nos . 2-3 . 17. Mon. Anglic . iv . 331. 18. Ibid . 19. Gesta S. Albani , i . 174. 20. Cal . Pat . R. 1436-41 , P. 391. 21. Textus 


 Gibbs ) , i . 233 . 


 23. Ibid . 95 . 


 22. Pipe R. 31 Hen . I , 66–7 . 25. Cal . Chart . R. iii . 338. 26. John of Oxenedes , 51 . 27. Op . cit . 137 . 28. Ibid .; Hen . of Huntingdon , 266 . 29. Madox , Hist . of the Excheq . ii . 138. 30. Pipe R. Soc . x . n . 23 . 31. Round , Geof . de Mandeville , 143 , 146 , 320-23 . 32. Cal . Chart . R. i . 31. 33. Twisden , Chron . J. Brompton , 1039. 34. Dict . Natl . Biog . 35. Cal . Pat . R. 1440 , 


 36. Facsimiles of Charters ( Brit . Mus . ) , n . 27 . iv . 257. 38. Pipe R. 3 Hen . II , 79. 39. Bk . of Fees , 70 . 


 P. 392 . 


 37. Cal . Chart . R. 40. Pipe R. 


 3 Hen . II , 128-130 . 41. Ibid . 8 Hen . II , 3. 42. Red Bk . 200-202 . 43. Ibid . 397-9 . 44. Pipe R. 14 Hen . II , 21 . 45. Ibid . 194-5 . 46. Ibid . 17 Hen . II , 135 . 47. Ann . of Waverley , 240 ; Robt . of Torigni , 271 . 48. Pipe R. 22 Hẹn . II , 2OI . 49. Ibid . 25 Hen . II , 38 . 50. Mon. Anglic . iv . 645. 51. Pipe R. 26 Hen . II , 32. 52. Ibid . 27 Hen . II , 145-6 . 53. Ibid . 28 Hen . II , 91. 54. Ibid . 31 Hen . II , 172. 55. Ibid . 33 Hen . II , III . 56. Ibid . 113 . 57. Ibid . 1 Ric . 13 , 212. 58. Ibid . 13 , 214 . 59. Cal . Chart . R. iv . 257 . 60. Ann . of Waverley , 249 . 61. Chartulary , Titus C. viii.f.18 . 62. Egerton Ch . 372. 63. Stowe MS . 924 , f . 13 . 64. Ibid . 65. Pipe R. 6 Ric . m . 4d . 66. Mon. Angl . iv . 645 . 67. Ibid . 645b . 68. Titus C. viii . f . 19. 69. R. Chart . 114b . 70. R. Lit. 71. Red Bk . 537 , 805. 72. Bk . of Fees , 128. 73. Ibid . Ibid . 131 , 133. 75. Ibid . 136. 76. Pipe R. 14 John , 


 62 . 


 Claus . i . 91b . 128 , 130. 74 . m . 18 , Norf . 


 79. Ibid . 


 77. R. Lit. Claus . i . 255b . 78. Ibid . 314 . 3836. 80. Ann . of Waverley , 294 ; John of Oxenedes , 146. 81. Excerpt . Fin . i . 63 . 82. R. Lit. Claus . i . 455-56 . 83. Bk . of Fees , 129 . 84. Abbrev . Placit . III . 85. Close R. 96 . 86. R. Hund . i . 455 . 87. Excerpt . Fin . i . 250. Cf. Cal . Pat . R. 1235 , P. 104 . 88. Ibid . 89. Close R. 218. Cf. Placit . de quo war . 753 . 90. Close . R. 489 , 521 . 94. Ibid . 112 . 98. Ibid . 697 . 101. Cal . Close R. 85. 102. Cal . 105. Cal . 


 91. Ibid . 346 , 364. 92. Ibid . 408. 93. Close R. 99 . 


 97. Bk . of Fees , 688 . 


 96. Cal . Pat . R. 416 . 100. Ibid . 681 . 


 103. Close R. 248-52 . 104. Ibid . 116 . 


 106. Cal . Inq . p . m . vii . 226. 107. Complete Peerage 108. Cal . Pat . R. 328 ; Cal . Close R. 243. 109. Cal . 


 
 
 108 


 
 
 95. Ibid . 120 . 99. Ibid . 491 . Misc . Ing . i . 384 . Pat . R. 129–30 . ( ed . Gibbs ) , i . 242 . Pat . R. 524 . 


 
 
 I. 


 Robert son of Tetbald in 1086 held of earl Roger in Petworth , Suss . , 9 hides , of which 2 Frenchmen ( Turstin being probably one ) held 2 hides ; in Toddington ( in Lyminster ) 4 hides , ( which formed no part of the honor of Petworth ) . For Sutton see n . 1 ( 8 ) , and for Duncton , n . 1 ( 1o ) ; Heyshott appears to have been involved in the 12 hides of Cocking ( n . I ( 1 ) ) . 


 Petworth and its members formed part of the Domesday fee which Robert son of Tetbald held of Earl Roger de Montgomery . As Robert de Arundel he gave to the monks of Lewes the churches 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 33] ===
 
 
 PETWORTH 17 


 
 
 of Petworth , Hardham and Tillington , with the chapels of Treyford and Duncton.¹ When near his last hour Robert son of Tetbald gave to St. Martin of Sées the manor of Toddington , near Arundel . In this charter , dated in 1087 , he mentions his deceased wife Emma and his son Hugh , who joined his father in this gift , which was made in the presence of Corbelin , Hamelin and Turstin of Pet worth . At the Survey Corbelin held Barlavington and Marden , Hamelin held Burton , and Turstin held land in Grittenham , of Robert ( son of Tetbald ) . 


 
 
 On the banishment of Robert de Belleme in 1102 it is supposed that the honor of Arundel escheated to the crown . It was suggested by the late Mr. Eyton , the historian of Shropshire , that the fees of Robert son of Tetbald , namely the honor of Petworth , and the fees of Goring ( no . 2 below ) , Pulborough ( no . 3 ) , and Nutbourne ( no . 4 ) , were not forfeited in 1102 , and that Robert did not share in the fall of his lord , Robert of Belleme , and he cites a document in support of this contention.3 But Mr. Eyton was not aware of the testamentary charter of Robert son of Tetbald cited above , nor of the proof of his death having occurred in 1087. Nor does there appear to be any evidence that Hugh , or any other son of Robert the sheriff of Arundel , held these fees under Henry I. 


 There is , however , in the Lewes chartulary a certificate or proclamation by Reginald de Wint ' ( who has not been identified ) , setting forth that his predecessor Alan had given certain lands in alms to the monks of St. Pancras , as he learned by the statement and confirmation of his wife Aveline , his barons and other honest men . Desiring to maintain and increase the same , as holding the honor of Petworth , he confirms to Lewes the church of Petworth and its appurtenances in churches and chapels , in lands and tithes , naming the churches of Tillington , Lurgashall and Stedham , the chapels of Duncton , Treve - River ( in Tillington ) , and Heyshot . This he did with the assent of his wife Aveline , the witnesses being Ralph de Stopeham , Robert de Altaripa , Hugh de Querceto , Robert ( ? ) son of Thurstan , Ralph the sewer , Geoffrey son of Alan , Durand de Silva , Andrew de Cotes and Alan Belet.4 


 
 
 From this it may be surmised that Reginald held the honor of Petworth in right of his wife Aveline ; that Alan had been her previous husband ; and that she was the representative of Robert son of Tetbald . The Alan mentioned appears to be the Alan who held Maldon in Surrey in the time of Henry I and whose heir , as will be seen below , at a later time made claim to the honor of Petworth ( see I ( 1 ) ) . If so , perhaps the further conjecture will have to be made that he had no children by Aveline , so that the honor escheated to the crown . Yet Ido ( Eudo ) son of Alan gave land in Sutton to Lewes , his mother Aveline being a witness . 


 Arundel with its members was a crown estate in 1130 and after the death of Henry I was part of the dower of his widow queen Adeliza . She and her second husband , William de Aubigny the butler , gave the honor of Petworth to her brother Joscelin of Louvain , generally known as Joscelin the castellan of Arundel or Joscelin the queen's brother . Henry II , at the beginning of his reign , 


 6 


 с 


 
 
 III . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 34] ===
 
 
 18 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 8 


 confirmed this gift to Joscelin , " who in 1156 was pardoned £ 9 14s . out of £ 217 os . 6d . of the danegeld in Sussex , namely in respect of 97 hides , and two years later 46s . 8d . out of the donum of the county , ⁹ a sum proportionable to the earlier remission . 


 In 1168 Joscelin the castellan was pardoned 22 marks which he owed in respect of 221 fees of the honor of Petworth.10 In 1172 he accounted for the scutage of 9 fees of the Percy fee in York shire , doubtless the maritagium of his wife Agnes , daughter , and soon afterwards co - heir , of William de Percy , and of 21 fees of his honor of Petworth.12 As Josceline brother of the queen he gave land in Heyshott & c . to Dureford abbey for the souls of Henry the rex antiquus and Adelide his queen , ' my sister , ' and for Henry II and Eleanor the queen , and for A. my wife and our sons and daughters.13 He also confirmed a gift by Joscelin his nephew.14 After the death of William de Percy a partition of the Percy fee was made before the King's justices shortly after Easter , 1175.15 Two years later . Joscelin owed 200 marks for a fine made with ( Sibil de Valoignes ) Percy's widow , 16 of which a moiety was due in 1178 from the Earl of Warwick , but in the meantime Joscelin's fine had been increased 100 marks.17 These fines were for the right against Sibil of land of the Percy fee which Joscelin and the earl claimed.18 Joscelin died towards the end of 1179 , or early in 1180 , and so at Michaelmas , 1180 , the king's keeper of the honor of Arundel accounted for the issues of the honor of Putewurtha ' for part of the 26th year.19 The honor was still in the king's hands in 1189 , but two years later the name of Henry de Percy ( his son , and heir to Petworth ) appeared among those who rendered scutage in Sussex , 20 and again in 1195 as owing £ 22 10s . in respect of the scutage due from this honor for the king's redemption.21 He died before 3 April , 1200 , when king John granted the custody and marriage of the heirs of Henry de Percy , with their entire inheritance , to William Briwerre . 22 In 1203 Richard Revell had a grant of 50 solidates of 


 C 


 
 
 land in the manor of ' Sumerton ' at Petworth which were extended out of 12 librates of land which the king gave him in the same manor.23 William son and heir of Henry was under age at his father's death , for in Trinity term , 1213 , he demanded against Richard de Percy ( his uncle ) , Seamer , Topcliffe , Stamford Bridge , Catton and Gisburn , Yorks . , as his right , of which his ancestors were seised and of which he himself was seised while he was under age and in the custody of Sir William Briwerre.24 He confirmed to the abbey of Dureford land in Tillington given by Joscelin his grandfather and Isabel de Bruis , his mother.25 He held Petworth in 1242-3 for 211 fees , 26 and died shortly before 28 July , 1245 , ' having three years before enfeoffed his 4 younger sons , Ingram , William , Alan and Joscelin of his manor of Kirk Levington , Yorks.28 On 19 August following the escheator in Yorkshire was directed to assign to Ellen , late the wife of William de Percy ( of Petworth , Sussex , and Tadcaster , Yorks . ) , £ 60 worth of land until her dower could be set out , 29 and on 29 October following the sheriff of Sussex , with William de Auterive , was directed to assign dower to her in that county.30 


 
 
 27 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 35] ===
 
 
 PETWORTH 19 


 
 
 On 1 June , 1244 , there were assigned to John Fitz - Alan , as one of the heirs of Hugh late earl of Arundel , 19 knights ' fees which William de Percy then held in Petworth , Tillington , Sutton , Duncton , Heyshott , Stedham , Cocking , Selham , Linchmere , Treve , Stopham , Cotes , Linch , Barlavington and Bleatham ( in Egdean ) , with the advowson of the church of Westbourne and of the vicariates of East Dean and Singleton , Suss.31 On Christmas Day , 1245 , the king committed two - thirds of the manor of Pet worth to Bozo de Mastak , count of Bigorre.32 The hospital of Sandown , Surr . , had been endowed by William de Percy of 20 marks of rent yearly out of the Yorkshire manor of Gisburn.33 Henry de Percy , who died shortly before 12 January , 1246,34 was younger brother of William . His relict Isabel received her dower a month later in certain socage lands lately held by her deceased husband in Heyshott and Sutton.35 


 
 
 Henry son and heir of William de Percy was a minor at his father's death and on 28 July , 1245 , the sheriff of York was directed to send him forthwith to the king to stay in the king's wardship.36 The king took the homage of Henry son and heir of William de Percy in 1249,37 but was exercising the rights of wardship of Henry de Percy's lands in 1257.38 In 1272 Henry de Percy held 22 fees of John Fitz - Alan of the honor of Arundel , 39 and died that year on the feast of the Decollation of St. John ( 29 Aug. ) . Henry his son and ultimately his heir was posthumously born on Lady Day following ( 25 Mar. 1273 ) , at Petworth.40 On 15 Oct. 1272 king Henry granted to queen Eleanor the wardship of the lands late of Henry de Percy , tenant in chief , as of the value of £ 300 a year , ¹¹ and on 23 Nov. following ordered an extent of these lands to be made , except of the manors of Petworth and Topcliffe , of which Eleanor , late wife of the said Henry de Percy , had been enfeoffed in her late husband's lifetime , and , when the extent was made , to assign to Eleanor her dower.42 In 1278 John de Percy was described as son and heir of Henry de Percy , being then a minor , 43 as also in 1285 on the renewal by king Edward to his mother of the late grant of two - thirds of the custody of the lands and heirs of Henry de Percy , namely until the majority of John son and heir of the said Henry , and , in case he died under age without heirs , then during the minority of Henry his brother together with his marriage , and so until some heir came of age.44 At this time Ellen de Percy , Eleanor de Percy and Agnes late the wife of Richard de Percy held lands of the Percy inheritance in dower.45 John de Percy died in his minority without issue , and in 1294 Henry his brother and heir , having passed his age , obtained livery of the lands that Henry father of the said John and Henry held in chief at his death 46 22 years before . In 1297 he succeeded to lands in Leicestershire as kinsman and heir of Ingram de Balliol.47 He died in 1314 holding the manors of Petworth , Sutton and Duncton , with the members , of the earl of Arundel for 21 fees . Henry his son was aged 13 years and 9 months.48 


 
 
 The following persons held of the honor of Petworth in 1302-3 by knights ' service , where it is said that 5 hides made a knight's 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 36] ===
 
 
 20 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 fee , besides a number of other persons ( named ) who held virgates by knights ' service.49 For comparison another return of the Petworth fees , made in 1314 , is placed in a parallel column.50 


 
 
 Places . 


 1. Cocking , Linchmere , Minstead and Selham 


 
 
 2. Treve , Stopham , Linch , Coates and Yapton 


 
 
 3. Barlavington , Bleatham , Mar den , Hardham ( and Big worth ) 


 4. Bignor , Graffham and Bud dington 5. Stedham 


 6. Burton , Glatting and [ Sutton ? ] 


 7. Heyshott ( and Hallingelond ) 8. Sutton 


 9. Lavant 


 
 
 IO . 


 II . Cradele ' 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 12. Stedham , 


 ' Litledon ' 13. La Hulstre ' 


 
 
 Heyshott 


 
 
 14. Dodelesfold ' and Fernhurst 


 
 
 15. Linchmere ( ' Shuldebrede ' ) , Rugmere , Bepton and Pet worth 


 
 
 16. Duncton 


 17. Tillington and Heyshott 


 18. A plot of land 


 19. Dodelesfold 


 20. North Marden 


 
 
 21. Sutton 


 22. La Hulstre ' 


 
 
 and 


 
 
 [ 


 
 
 Fees . 


 Tenant 1302-3 . 


 31 Archbp . of Canter bury 


 Alan la Sousche 


 
 
 5 


 2 Roger de Schelve strode 


 
 
 3 


 
 
 I 


 
 
 2 


 
 
 w / ~ PHYCHLO 


 
 
 AX 


 
 
 1 


 
 
 I 


 
 
 pi padi pad , 


 
 
 1400 


 
 
 مود 


 
 
 of 


 the Church of Chichester 


 [ The abbot of Reading ] in alms 


 I Canons of Linch 


 mere 


 
 
 121 


 
 
 तक 


 
 
 I 


 and 2 virgates 


 
 
 Prior of Ports mouth 


 Gilbert de Boud eketon 


 
 
 Ralph Saunzaver Ralph Saun 


 zaver . 


 Same . 


 Same . 


 Same . 


 Same . 


 Same . 


 
 
 Lora atte Bysse Hugh de Sutton Prior of Shulbred de Nevill Will . Waure Richard de Alta Ripa Will . Waure 


 
 
 Community 


 
 
 Hospital of San down 


 Prioress of Ease 


 bourne 


 Prior of Maiden Bradley 


 Prior of Lewes in the hands of the lord ? in alms 


 
 
 on 


 
 
 23. In the manor of Heyshott 


 and 2 virg . 


 Total 26 fees and virgate . ( Recte 24 , and 4 virg . ) There remain when a scutage is levied 221 fees . 


 
 
 Tenant 1314 . Same . 


 
 
 Will . la 


 Sousche . Will . Paynel . 


 
 
 111 


 
 
 1 1 1 1 1 


 
 
 2. Ibid . n . 655 . 


 3. Viz . 


 1. Round , Cal . of Docs . France , p . 510 . Mon. Anglic . iii . 518. 4. Vesp . F. xv . f . 157. It seems impossible that Reginald can be Reginald de Dunstanvill who married Adeline de Lisle . 5. Vesp . F. xv . f . 138 . 6. Cf. Cal . Chart . R. iii . 420. 7. Percy Chartul . ( Surtees Soc . ) , n . 914. 8. Pipe R. 2 Hen . II , 61. 9. Ibid . 4 Hen . II , 182. 10. Ibid . 14 Hen . II , 194. 11. Ibid . 18 Hen . II , 62. 12. Ibid . 132. 13. Chartulary , Vesp . E. xxiii . f . 32d . 14. Ibid . f . 37d . 15. Percy 17. Ibid . 24 Hen . II , 71 . 20. Red Bk . of the Excheq . 72 . 


 Chartul . 16. Pipe R. 23 18. Ibid . 26 Hen . II , 66 . 


 Hen . II , 191 . 19. Ibid . 33 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 37] ===
 
 
 COCKING AND SELHAM 21 


 
 
 21. Ibid . 92. 22. R. Chart . 48b . 23. R. de Liberate , 56 . Regis R. 58 , m . 7d . 25. Mon. Anglic . vi . 939 . 27. Excerpt . e R. Fin . i . 440. 28. Close R. 1246 , p . 405 . 30. Ibid . 367 . 31. Ibid . 249 . 402 . 32. Ibid . 379 . 34. Excerpt . i . 447 , 450 . 35. Close R. 393. 36. Ibid . 332 . Pat . 36. 38. Ibid . 540 . 39. Cal . Inquis . i . 279. 40. Cal . Inquis . iii . 42. Cal . Close , I. 43. Ibid . 495 . 


 41. Cal . Pat . 682 . 


 141 . 44. Cal . Pat . 175 . 45. Ibid . 46. Cal . Close , 350 ; Cal . Fine R. i . 346. 47. Cal . Fine R. i . 410 . 48. Cal . Inquis . v . 312 . 49. Percy Chartul . ( Surtees Soc . ) , 465-6 . 50. Cal . Inquis . v . 315 . 


 
 
 24. Curia 26. Testa , 222 . 29. Ibid . 336 , 33. Ibid . 429 . 37. Cal . 


 
 
 I ( I ) . 


 Robert son of Tetbald held of earl Roger in 1086 in Cocking , Suss . , 12 hides , of which Turold held hide ; in Linch 5 hides ; in Selham 4 hides which Fulcoin then held . 


 
 
 Alan gave the church of Cocking to the abbey of Sées in the time of Henry I.¹ In 1185 Brien Fitz - Ralph owed £ 25 for relief of 5 fees 2 which he held of the honor of Peverel of London in Great Bricett , Suff . , and Bradwell , Essex . He married , as his second wife , Gunnor , sister and heir or coheir of Eudes Fitz - Alan , who was said to be great - grandson of Alan the donor of the church of Cocking.3 This marriage took place prior to 1194 , when Henry de Percy was essoigned of sickness of the bed in Yorkshire in a plea against Brien Fitz - Ralph and Gunnor his wife respecting the land of Petworth.¹ 


 In 1195 this plea was terminated by Brien and Gunnor releasing to Henry de Percy their claim to the honor of Petworth , so that there should remain to them the vill of Cocking , except 2 virgates there , held by Henry de Hesset for fee , which belonged to Heyshott ( n . 1 ( 7 ) ) ; all that Henry de Percy had in Linchmere , except the tenement of Robert de Hallested ; the fee of knight which Ellis Moraunt held [ in Minstead ? ] and of knight which Philip de Seleam held [ in Selham ] and of fee which John held ; and because it could not be arranged that Brien and Gunnor should hold of Henry in chief , they were to hold of Hubert archbishop of Canter bury and his successors by the said fee of 3 knights , namely for the lordship of Cocking and Linchmere I knight and for the other tenements 2 knights . For this Henry gave them So marks.5 Brian son of Ralph , with the consent of Gunnor his wife , confirmed to Boxgrove land in Selham which Philip de Seleham had given at the request of Philip his father's brother . " 


 In 1199 Brien and Gunnor impleaded the abbot of Sées for the church of Cocking as Gunnor's right , whereof Alan , grandfather of Gunnor's father , was seised in the time of Henry I when he pre sented Amfrid de Pallingham to the church . In 1200 they released their claim to the advowson of the church to Henry abbot of Sées for a palfrey and 20s.8 In 1200 Brien and Gunnor his wife acknow ledged that 2 hides in Linchmere were the right of Ralph de Arden , to hold for fee , and for this Ralph gave them 75 marks . See nos . I and I ( 9 ) . 


 9 


 
 
 Eudes de Meldon gave to the priory of Merton the church of Malden , Surr . , in the time of Henry II ; William prior of Merton claimed the advowson in 1206 against Brien and Gunnor his wife ; 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 38] ===
 
 
 22 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 Brien alleged that the gift was illegal because it had been made after Eudes took the habit of religion.10 There was a similar plea in respect of I hide in Maldon held by Gunnor's father Eudes in the time of Henry II ; William the father of the said Eudes had given the priory a moiety of the hide and Eudes gave the rest , according to the prior . Plaintiffs objected to Eudes ' charter on the same ground as before . One Robert son of Humfrey had been Gunnor's guardian.11 


 
 
 In 1216 Brien was of the party of the barons and his land of Cocking was committed to the earl of Arundel.12 His lands of Maldon , Chessington and Farley , Surr . , had been seized in the pre ceding year.13 Returning to allegiance in 1217 he obtained writs . of reseisin to the sheriffs of Suffolk , Cambridge , Essex , Sussex and Surrey.14 In 1218 his lands in the two last - named counties were committed to the bishop of Winchester , 15 with whom he later made agreement for his redemption.16 


 In appears that Brien and Gunnor had issue Brien , Eudes , Aveline and Sarah , to whom belonged the inheritance in Cocking on the fee of Arundel , and in Maldon and its members on the fee of Gloucester . This is disclosed by fines levied in 1240. The first is an agreement between Roger de Bavent and Sarah his wife with John de Sey , late husband of Aveline , sister of the said Sarah , whereby a tenement in Shipbourne , Kent , was limited to John de Sey for his life in return for his release to Sarah of all the residue of his late wife's inheritance in Easton Bavents ( Brandestun ) , Suff . , Gosfield , Essex , Hatcham , Surr . , Cocking , Suss . , and Shipbourne , Kent.17 The second fine is one in which Roger de Bavent and Sarah his wife were demandants , and Peter de Codington , vouched to warranty by Walter de Merton , defendant , touching two - thirds of 2 fees in Maldon , Chessington and Pistelegh , ' Surr . , which Roger and Sarah conceded to Peter with the reversion of 1 fee in Farley which William de Whitefeld and Isabel his wife held in Isabel's dower of the gift of Brien Fitz - Brien , her former husband , and a third part of the above - named 2 fees which Cecily de Gravenel held in dower of the gift of Eudes Fitz - Brien , formerly husband of Cecily and brother of the said Brien , after the decease of the said Isabel and Cecily . For this release Peter released to Roger and Sarah and the heirs of Sarah as pertaining to her on the side of Gunnor de Maldon , sister of Eudes Fitz - Alan , and to her issue , his right in the manor of Cocking . William de Wattevill consented to the settlement ; but 7 others put in claims , presumably con tingent on Sarah's decease without issue.18 In 1249 Walter de Merton , king's clerk , had a grant of free warren in Maldon , Chessing ton and Farley , Surr.19 Later these estates formed part of the endowment of Merton Hall , Oxford.20 


 
 
 Roger de Bavent had exemption for life in 1253 from serving on assizes or the like.21 He was living in 1255. Adam de Bavent succeeded and was party to a fine of the manor of Wiston , Suss . , with the members in 1272.22 In 1279 he established his claim to free chase in his manor of Cocking , wreck of the sea in his manor of Heene , liberties which his ancestors had enjoyed time out of 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 39] ===
 
 
 TILLINGTON AND GRITTENHAM 23 


 
 
 mind.23 He had a grant in 1285 of free warren in Cocking , Heene , Wiston and 9 other places in Suss . , Surr . , Kent and Suff . , and of market and fair at Cocking and Shipbourne.24 He died in 1292 holding of the archbishop of Canterbury the manor of Cocking for 3 fees , the manors of Wiston , Heene and Chiltington of Sir William de Breuse for 4 fees of the honor of Bramber , and divers other estates ; Roger his son was aged 12 years . 25 It was recorded that Richard de Vabadun , who held 3 fees of the honor of Peverel of Dover in 1212 , was ancestor of Adam de Bavent on his mother's side , with lands in Hatcham , Surr.26 Roger son and heir of Adam proved his age in 1301 , having been born and baptized at Wiston.27 În 1316 he was lord of Cocking , Wiston , and Poling.28 In 1325 William Elmere held fee in Burpham of a mesne tenant of Roger de Bavent.29 


 
 
 Roger de Bavent knt . was in 1327 one of the heirs of John Giffard of Brimpsfield , Gloucs.³ 30 He and Roger his son were in the service of the crown in various capacities in the early part of the reign of Edward III . In or before 1331 the younger Roger married Hawise , daughter of William de Monteacute , 31 for whose provision he made a settlement in 1339. He died in 1344 or early in 1345 , having granted his estates ( recited ) , or the greater part of them , to the king.33 


 
 
 32 


 
 
 1. Abbrev . Placit . 626 . 2. Pipe R. 31 Hen . II , 41 . 3. Abbrev . Placit . 62b . 4. R. Cur . Reg . i . 37. 5. Percy Chartul . ( Surtees Soc . ) , 412. 6. Cott . MS . Claud . A. vi . f . 76. 7. Curia Regis R. 20 , m . 1od .; R. Cur . Reg . i . 405 ; ii . 258. 8. Suss . Feet of F. i . 13. 9. Suss . Feet of F. i . 10. 10. Curia Regis R. 42 , m . 3d . 11. Ibid . m . 7d . 12. R. Lit. Claus . i . 2676–8 . 13. Ibid . 2366 , 2376 . 14. Ibid . 324b , 326 . 15. Ibid . 356. 16. Pat . R. 148. 17. Essex Feet of F. 135. Cf. Suss . Feet of F. i . n . 356 . 18. Ibid . n . 357 . 19. Cal . Chart . R. i . 345 . 20. Placit . de quo war . 7416 . 21. Cal . Pat . R. 171 . 22. Suss . Feet of F. ii . n . Soi . 23. Placit . de quo war . 756b . 24. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 319. 25. Cal . Inquis . iii . 57. 26. Ibid . Cf. Red Bk . 560 , 721. 27. Cal . Inquis . iv . 35 . 28. Feud . Aids , v . 134 , 141-2 . 29. Cal . Inquis . vi . 410 . 30. Cal . Fine R. iv . 258 ; Cal . Close R. iii . 227 . 31. Ibid . 300 . Pat . R. 1345 , P. 440. 33. Cal . Fine R. v . 385 , 415 . 


 32. Cal . 


 
 
 I ( 2 ) . 


 Robert son of Tetbald in 1086 held of earl Roger in Tillington , Suss . , 5 hides , of which 2 Frenchmen held 1 virgate ; in Gritten ham 4 hides and I virgate , of which Turstin held hide and 1 vir gate . For Treve Park ( now River ) in Tillington , Stopham , Coates and Yapton see n . 4 , and for Linch see n . 1 ( I ) . 


 Turstin de Petehorda ( Petworth ) attested the death - bed gift made by Robert son of Tetbald to St. Martin of Sées of a manor near Arundel called Toddington ( in Lyminster ) .¹ King Stephen confirmed to the abbey of Čluny 4 solidates of land , apparently in Stedham , given by Thurstan de Cotes ( n . 1 ( 5 ) ) . 2 


 
 
 No reference to this fee or any of its members of an earlier date than 1244 has been discovered by the writer . So much as is found in later records has been incorporated in the account of Nutbourne by Pulborough ( n . 4 ) . 


 2. Ibid . p . 500 . 


 1. Round , Cal . of Docs . , France , n . 655 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 40] ===
 
 
 24 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 I ( 3 ) . 


 Robert son of Tetbald held of earl Roger in 1086 in Barlaving ton , Suss . , 5 hides which Corbelin held , and in North Marden 5 hides which Corbelin held , and Fulcoin held hide appurtenant to Marden . 


 
 
 Corbelin attested the death - bed gift of his lord , Robert son of Tetbald , noticed above . He or another of the same name held 2 hides in Chobham of the abbot of Chertsey in 1086.¹ There seems to be no evidence to indicate whether the Hautrives were the successors of Corbelin , or were enfeoffed of Corbelin's lands after the date of the Great Survey . 


 
 
 It is alleged in the Sussex Archæological Society's Transactions for 1853 ( vi . 36 ) , that William de Alta Ripa married a sister of Joscelin de Louvain and that they had issue a son , Joscelin de Alta Ripa . Joscelin , nephew of Joscelin the brother of queen Adelisa , gave to the church of St. George of Heringham , now Hardham , certain land and meadow , for the soul of Joscelin his uncle.² William de Alta Ripa has been generally recognized as the founder of the priory for Black Canons of the order of St. Augustine at Hardham ; 3 his heirs were patrons of the house . 


 4 


 In 1242 William de Hauterive had a grant of free warren in Barlavington . In 1246 he and Nicholas de Limesi agreed to present alternately to the church of North Marden.5 See n . 20 . Apparently North Marden was partly of the honor of Petworth , William de Hauterive being tenant , and partly of the honor of Arundel , the Aguilluns being tenants . The scanty references to these lands in the records after this date will be found at n . 31 . 


 William de Hautrive in 1280 released to the prior of Lewes all his claim in the advowson of Lutgarshall near Petworth . “ 


 
 
 1. V. C. H. Surrey , i . 310 . Western Suss . ii . 258 . 


 i . 115 . 


 
 
 2. Chartul . of Lewes . 3. Dallaway , 4. Cal . Chart . R. i . 271. 5. Suss . Feet of F. 6. Feet of F. , unknown counties , 285/27 , n . 23 . 


 
 
 I ( 4 ) . 


 Robert son of Tetbald held in 1086 of earl Roger in Bignor , Suss . , 4 hides which Ralph held of him ; in Buddington I hide which Ralph similarly held ; in Glatting ( in Burton ) 4 hides which Ralph similarly held ; in Stopham 3 hides which Ralph similarly held ; in East Wittering 1 hide which Ralph similarly held . 


 
 
 In the records there are numerous references to the family of Saunzaver ( Sine Averio ) . William Fitz - Ralph gave to Lewes priory the church of Buddington.¹ He attested charters of William de Aubigny of the date 1132-1141 and 1158.2 Ralph Sanzaver and Matilda his mother confirmed to Boxgrove the mill of Buteswell with land , which his uncle ( avunculus ) William de Chesney had given and his lord Geudewin ( n . 17 ; the Gildewin son of Sanzaver of n . 1 ( 8 ) ) had confirmed ; Robert the brother of Ralph Sainzaver was a witness.³ Ralph Sanzaver at the request of Matilda his 


 
 
 ۲۱ .. 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 41] ===
 
 
 BIGNOR AND GLATTING 25 


 
 
 mother and with the assent of his wife Isabel and heir Hugh gave land in Buddington in Fernhurst to Dureford abbey , for the souls of Henry II and other . He also gave to Lewes priory the church of Bignor , " and tested the charter of William de Aubigny to the monks of Boxgrove made 1176-78.6 In 1187 Ralph Sanzaveir was pardoned scutage of 1 fee in the honor of Arundel , ' , and in 1199 , as attorney for his wife Isabel , demanded against Ivo Quarrell I hide in Croxton , Cambs . , as his wife's inheritance , and as that which Richard de Vernon gave in marriage with Cecily the said Isabel's mother.8 In the same year Walter de Sutton and Sarah his wife released to Ralph Sanzaveir and Isabel his wife 4 hides in Crofton , for which Ralph and Sarah gave them I hide and 


 virgate in Buddington for fee . Ralph Sansaver and Hugh his son attested a Boxgrove charter ; 10 and Ralph Senzaver and Hugh de Chenei his son attested a Lewes one . 11 


 
 
 In 1214 Hugh Sanzaver ( son of Ralph ) obtained a writ of precipe against Richard de Thoreny respecting 1 hide in Walton , Suss.12 He returned to allegiance in 1217 , when he and Isabel his mother recovered possession of their lands.13 At the perambulation . of the forest of Sussex near Chichester in 1225 Hugh Sanzaver's woodland is mentioned.14 He succeeded William de Alta Ripa as constable of Arundel castle in 1233 15 and held office in 1235.16 Having had a dispute with the monks of Lewes as to the advowson of Bignor , the matter was referred to arbitration and an agreement was made by which Hugh , with the consent of Ralph his son and heir , quitclaimed all right to the monks.17 Hugh was living in 1248. ( See Arundel , n . 15. ) 


 
 
 Ralph Sanzaver succeeded . In 1231 he had a gift of the manor of Newnham Murren , Oxon , from Richard Morin in frank marriage with Matilda the donor's sister.18 In 1253 he was exempted from being put on assizes.19 He was one of 4 knights appointed in 1258 to make inquiry in Sussex touching excesses and injuries done in that county.20 In 1262 he had a grant of free warren in his manor of Bignor with the hamlet of Rogate , Suss . , and in the manor of Spargrove ( in Batcombe ) , Som . , 21 and two years later was one of those appointed to guard the sea - coast about Pevensey from invasion.22 In 1265 he and Hugh his son had another important commission in respect of the defence of the coast of Sussex against marauders.23 In 1277 Juliana Giffard , abbess of Wilton , acquired a messuage and 2 virgates in Ugford , Wilts . , of Ralph Saunzaver , who apparently died about that time , 24 and Hugh in 1284 , holding the manor of Spargrove of the heirs of Sir John de Bruwes for I fee , the manor of Bignor of the heirs of William de Dyve for 3 fees , of which one fee was held by John de Camoys , John de Autryve , Thomas de Kepston and Remigius de . . . , the hamlet of Rogate of Sir John de Bohun for fee , and lands in Racton and Eartham held of the same by suit and service of fee ; Ralph his son was aged 22 years.25 The younger Ralph died in the king's service in 1314 , holding the manor of Bignor , the lordship of the manor of Graffham which William de Wauncy and Thomas de Kepston held of him , and tenements in Buddington which Hugh de Buditon 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 42] ===
 
 
 26 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 held of him , all held of the heir of Henry de Percy for 3 fees , and lands in Croxton and Great Gransden , Cambs .; Ralph his son was aged 22 years.26 In 1316 Ralph was lord of Bignor , Madehurst and Racton.27 In 1324 he was one of 4 knights who with others of Sussex and Hampshire mainperned Roger de Bavent knt . that he would be ready at the king's orders when the king should cause him to be summoned.28 In 1339 Ralph with 6 men at arms was , in the company of Richard earl of Arundel , one of the keepers of the sea - coasts in Suffolk.29 He was apparently living in 1342 , but died prior to 1347 , when there is mention of Elizabeth his relict.³ His successor was Thomas Saunzavoir , deceased in or before 1349 , when land in Howick , Suss . , was held of Elizabeth his relict , as of her manor of Bignor.³ 


 30 


 In 1279 the Hospitallers did suit to the hundred ( court ) of Avisford in respect of their tenements in Mellers on the honor of Arundel.32 


 
 
 31 


 
 
 1. Dugdale , Baronage , i . 271 . 883 , 1259 . 


 Cambs . 180 . f . 68 . 


 2. Round , Cal . of Docs . , France , nos . 3. Cott . MS . Claud . A. vi . f . 75. 4. Chartulary , Vesp . E. xxiii . f . 36d . 5. Chartulary , Vesp . F. xv . f . 153d . 6. Mon. Anglic . iv . 645. 7. Pipe R. 33 Hen . II , III . 8. Abbrev . Plac . 7b . See Feudal 9. Suss . Feet of F. i . 5 . 10. Cott . MS . Claud . A. vi . 11. Vesp . F. xv . f . 155d . 12. R. de Fin . 534 . Claus . i . 304b . 14. Ibid . ii . 8od . 15. Excerpt . i . 250 . 104. 17. Vesp . F. xv . f . 154 . 18. Cal . Chart . i . 132 . n . 17 . 19. Cal . Pat . 190 . 20. Ibid . 647 . 22. Cal . Pat . 347 . 23. Ibid . 652. 24. In 1284 the manor of Bignor , which Hugh Saunzavoir held of Henry de Dyve , was taken into the king's hands ; Cal . Fine R. i . 201. 25. Cal . Inquis . ii . 317. 26. Cal . Inquis . v . 291. 27. Feud . Aids , v . 140-3 . 28. Cal . Close R. 306. 29. Ibid . 31. Cal . Inquis . ix . 213 . 


 13. R. Lit. 16. Cal . Pat . See Wallingford , 21. Cal . Chart . ii . 45 . 


 32. Placit . de quo 


 118 . 30. Ibid . 274 . war . 762b . 


 
 
 I ( 5 ) , ( 12 ) . 


 Robert son of Tetbald held of earl Roger in 1086 in Stedham , Suss . , 14 hides , of which a Frenchman held 1 hide and 4 acres . 


 
 
 King Stephen confirmed to Lewes the church of Stedham with its tithes and I hide besides the priest's hide , 4 solidates of land given by Thurstan de Kotes and land which Alan son of Robert gave.¹ William Vasselier gave to the monks of St. Pancras , Lewes , a tenement in Lopeherst which the donor's ancestors had granted to them . Among the witnesses were John de Coking , Simon Waure , Richard his son , William the chaplain of Stedham and several officials . The charter is described as of the 12th century.2 In the Percy Chartulary there is a grant by Simon de Wa [ ure ? ] to Richard de Perci , son of Joscelin the castellan , of his property in Stedham , including the moiety of 2 corn mills and land and wood that his father [ held ? ] in Wolbidinges.3 


 It is reasonable to conjecture that one of the Percys gave Stedham to the Hospital of Portsmouth to hold by the service of I fee . The wardens of the hospital held the vill in 1316 and in 1428 for 1 fee . 


 4 


 
 
 1. Round , Cal . of Docs . , France , p . 510. 2. Cat . of Anct . D. iii . A. 4195 . 3. Op . cit . ( Surtees Soc . ) , 442. 4. Feud . Aids , v . 141 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 43] ===
 
 
 BURTON - HEYSHOTT - SUTTON 27 


 
 
 * 


 
 
 I ( 6 ) . 


 Robert son of Tetbald in 1086 held of earl Roger in Burton ( ' Bodecton ' ) , Suss . , 5 hides , which Hamelin held of Robert , besides I hide which Hamelin held immediately of earl Roger [ in Glatting ? ] . 


 
 
 6 


 William son of Ralph confirmed to Lewes priory his gift of the church of Budiktun , ' which he had made in the chapter of St. Pancras in presence of his lord Joscelin the queen's brother and Robert de Alta Riva ; the church and appurtenances to be in the same state as in the time of his father Ralph.¹ The said Joscelin also gave this church to Lewes , the witnesses including Robert de Alta Ripa , Joscelin the grantor's nephew and Ralph the sewer ; 2 and in another charter stated that William son of Ralph had previously given it , and Ralph the heir of William had confirmed.³ 


 3 


 5 


 William de Budeketun attested a Sokeburne ( in Petworth ) charter of the time of Eleanor de Percy . In 1256 he acquitted the prior of Lewes of the scutage of 4s . , when one of 40s . on the fee ran , in respect of 3 virgates in Sutton ( n . 1 ( 21 ) ) . Lawrence de Bodeketon was party to a fine of land in Redlington in 1296.6 In 1302-3 Gilbert de Bodeketon held 2 fees in Burton , Glatting and Sutton ( ? ) , and he held the same in 1314.8 


 7 


 
 
 1. Lewes Chartulary , Vesp . F. xv . f . 134d . f . 135d . 4. Percy Chartul . 393. 5. Suss . Feet of F. ii . 167. 7. Percy Chartul . 465 . 


 
 
 2. Ibid . f . 133 . 3. Ibid . Feet of F. ii . 21. 6. Suss . 8. Cal . Inquis . v . 315 . 


 
 
 I ( 7 ) . 


 This tenement in Heyshott was clearly that which Henry de Hesset , or Heyshott , held in 1195 as 2 virgates in Cocking , which belonged to Heyshott . See n . I ( 1 ) . The residue of Heyshott , except 2 small tenements , was held by the Percys in demesne.¹ In 1299 Philip de Theford and Alice his wife granted that Stephen le Chaumberleyn and Lora his wife should hold in survivorship a fourth part of the manor of Heyshott , with reversion to the grantors and the heirs of Alice.² 


 2. Ibid . ii . 172 . 


 1. Suss . Feet of F. i . 72 . 


 
 
 I ( 8 ) . 


 Robert son of Tetbald held of earl Roger in 1086 in Sutton , Suss . , 81 hides , of which 3 Frenchmen held 3 hides and I ferding . The greater part of Sutton belonged to the demesne of the lords of Petworth . 


 
 
 Alan son of Eudes , for the souls of himself and his son Eudes , gave to Lewes priory the churches of Sutton and Elingham.¹ Idonis ( Eudes ) son of A [ lan ] de Arundel gave to his lord St. Pancras ' a virgate of land in Sutton which had belonged to William son of Fulk . The witnesses included the grantor's mother Avelina , Gildewin son of Sanzaver ( n . 1 ( 4 ) ) , and William de Querceto.2 


 1. Lewes Chartulary , Vesp . F. xv . f . 138 . 


 2. Ibid . f . 134d , 156d . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 44] ===
 
 
 28 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 + 


 
 
 I ( 9 ) , ( 15 ) . 


 Part of the tenements described below belonged to the fee of Bohun of Midhurst . See n . 17 . 


 The family of Arden or Ardern were tenants of this honor . Thomas de Ardern was constable of Arundel early in the reign of Henry II.¹ He accounted in 1165 for 15s . 3d . in Essex for his render to the army of Wales.2 He was the father of Ralph Ardern , who served office as sheriff of Hereford from Easter , 1185 , to Mich . , 1189 , and had been amerced £ 65 in 1189 for default of 13 days ' delay in coming to the Exchequer when summoned . He appears to have been more severely amerced at a later date , for in 1201 he owed £ 272 12s . 8d . for his fine and for having the good will of king Richard . He had also officiated as a justice in eyre , a circum stance doubtless due to his kinship with the justiciar , Ranulf de Glanvill , whose daughter and coheiress he had married . On 6 June , 1194 , Peter de Peinton essoined himself de malo veniendi against Thomas de Arderne and the heirs of Ranulf de Glanvill of a plea of land by Alvred de Baldriseie . 5 


 6 


 On 1 July following Ralph son of Robert ( of Middleham , Yorks . ) , put in the place of Thomas de Arderne , and Ranulf de Aubervill and Matilda de Aubervill , put in the place of William her husband , demanded the fee of half a knight in Baldesey , Suffolk , against Peter de Petton as their right , which descended to them by the acquisition of Ranulf de Glanvill , whereof they proffered the charter of the same Peter whereby he released his right in the land to Sir Ranulf for 15 marks by the service of knight . Peter defended the plea . The sewer of the court of Eye demanded the court of Eye respecting the complaint between Matilda de Aubur vill and her nephews respecting lands of the honor of Eye . On 13 October , 1194 , Thomas de Ardern and Ralph son of Robert attorned Master William de Lecton against William de Aubervill and Matilda his wife respecting the partition of the inheritance of Ranulf de Glanvill . Then on 2 Nov. following they made a similar appointment . On 27 October previous William de Auber vill and Matilda his wife essoined themselves de malo veniendi against Thomas and Ralph.10 


 7 


 8 


 No further reference to the suits for the partition of the estate of Ranulf de Glanvill has been found , save that in 1206 Ranulf son of Robert ( ? of Middleham ) fined with the king to have seisin of the land in Saxthorpe , Lincs . , which Hubert , formerly archbishop of Canterbury , gave to Theobald ( Walter ) his brother whilst Ralph , brother of the said Ranulf , whose heir he then was , was in ward of the same archbishop ; and for having two writs of precipe before the king , one against Thomas de Ardern , and another against Hugh de Aubervill , respecting the reasonable share that belonged to him of the free tenement that of late was Ranulf de Glanvill's.11 Again , in the same year , Thomas de Ardern proffered 60 marks and a palfrey for having his reasonable share of the land that Ranulf de Glanvill gave in marriage to William de Stutevill with his niece 


 
 
 - 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 45] ===
 
 
 LINCHMERE 29 


 
 
 Berta , whereof the same Thomas ought to have the third part . Later a mandate was issued to give Thomas seisin of such reason able share . 12 This partition was in consequence of the recent death of William de Stutevill without issue of his union with the said Berta . 


 
 
 for 


 C 


 Returning to Ralph de Ardern . In 1200 Brian son of Ralph and Gunora his wife acknowledged that 2 hides in Linchmere ( ' Wlenche [ mere ] ' ) were the right of Ralph de Ardern , to hold fee.13 In 1208 king John committed the priory of Wolen chemere ' to Ralph de Ardern during pleasure.14 Before 1206 Ralph de Ardern had married Dionisia , the mother of Godfrey le Waleis , through the agency of Hubert Walter , archbishop of Canterbury ( 1193-1205 ) , and in the year 1210 he resigned to Godfrey his inheritance in exchange for a life estate in the manor of Patching and for 100 marks which Godfrey gave him.15 


 Ralph de Ardern , father of Thomas , died about 1210 : in which year Thomas accounted for 1500 marks for having seisin of his father's lands and of his chattels to perform his testament.16 Two years later Thomas the son was the plaintiff in a suit against Engelger de Bohun . See no . 17 below . In 1216 Thomas Ardern's lands in Bawsey , Norf . , Fimborough , Suff . , Hailsham and Preston , Sussex , Matching and Horndon , Essex , were committed to Osbert Giffard by King John.17 In the ensuing year a charter was enrolled whereby Thomas de Ardern , with the consent of Lucy his wife and Ralph his son and heir , granted to Thomas de Gasteny for 100 marks the land in Preston which the grantor held of Engelger de Bohun.18 Apparently Thomas de Ardern died before 3 June , 1225 , on which day the king forbad the justices to permit an assize of novel disseisin to be taken that William Butery and his wife , who was the daughter of Thomas Ardern , had arraigned against the prior of Russelipe and others touching the manor of Blakeham.19 


 
 
 Ralph de Ardern II appears to have married Aelina , the third sister and coheir of Stephen de Beauchamp of Lamarsh , Essex , in or before 1217 , whose land in Coton in the Elms , Derbys . , they had licence in 1228 to alienate to Stephen de Segrave.20 In 1240 Ralplı de Ardern passed by fine to William de Percy of Petworth , for 65 marks , the advowson of the priory of Shulbrede ( Sylebrede ' ) and the prior's service of the tenement that he held of Ralph Ardern in Linchmere - Wildebrig and Mid - Lavant ( Midlouinton ' ) , namely fee in Wlenchmere ' and fee in Midlouinton . ' 21 


 
 
 P. 19 . 


 8. Abbrev . 


 1. Bruton Chartul . ( Somerset Rec . Soc . ) , 84. 2. Pipe R. 11 Hen . II , 3. Ibid . I Ric . p . 145 . 4. R. Cancel . 3 John , p . 147. 5. R. Cur . Regis ( Pipe R. Soc . ) , 52. 6. Ibid . 31. 7. Abbrev . Placit . 5 . Placit . 3. 9. R. Cur . Regis , i . 24. 10. Ibid . 102. 11. R. de Fin . 337 , 368. 12. Ibid . 348. 13. Sussex Feet of F. i . 10. 14. R. L. Claus . i . 112b . 15. Sussex F. of F. i . 32. 16. Pipe R. 12 John , m . 4 , Essex . 17. R. L. Claus . i . 247 18. Pat . R. 115 . 19. R. L. Claus . ii . 43 . 20. Close R. 1228 , p . 125 . 21. Sussex F. of F. i . 94 . 


 
 
 • 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 46] ===
 
 
 30 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 I ( 10 ) , ( 16 ) . 


 Robert son of Tetbald in 1086 held of earl Roger in Duncton , Suss . , 5 hides , of which 4 Frenchmen held 1 hide , 1½ virgate and 


 10 acres . 


 In 1303 Simon atte Halle and Joan his wife passed by fine to Henry de Nevill and Joan his wife for 40 marks two - thirds of a third part of a messuage , 170 acres of land & c . and 56s . of rent in Tillington , Petworth and Duncton , with the reversion of the remaining third part upon the decease of Joan late wife of Ralph . de Bodenham , being of the inheritance of Joan wife of the said Simon.¹ This was possibly the tenement held in 1302-3 by de Nevill for fee . 


 1. Suss . Feet of F. ii . 188 . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 I ( 14 ) . 


 Dodelesfold , near Petworth , and Fernhurst , lying to the east . of Linch , were estates given to Reading Abbey by Joscelin brother of queen Adeliza . By a charter addressed to Hilary bishop of Chichester ( 1147-69 ) he gave the monks the lands of Robert de Dudelesfald , Theodoric de Dudelesfald and Edwin Hunt , in Petworth , adding that when he was at Reading at the funeral of his sister the queen ( 1151 ) he added the assarts those three men had occupied . By a later charter , in the time of Henry II , he gave the land of Fernhurst which pertained to Heyshott , and the mill of Sutton . These gifts were confirmed and augmented by his son Henry de Percy and William earl of Sussex , the latter acquitting the monks of suits to the hundreds.¹ 


 1. Harl . MS . 1708 , f . 108d , 109 . 


 
 
 II . 


 Robert ( son of Tetbald ? ) held of earl Roger in 1086 in Goring a berewick of 6 hides and 3 manors of 9 hides , 2 hides and 5 hides ; in East Preston part of 7 hides in East and West Preston ; lands in Barpham , Greatham , Elmere and possibly elsewhere may have been involved in the manors and berewick of Goring . 


 In the time of Stephen 11 fees in Goring ( Garinges ' ) were held of the honor of Arundel.¹ Robert Tresgod attested a charter of queen Adeliza to St. Mary's , Oseney.2 In 1158 John Treisgoz and Philip ( his brother ) attested a charter of William earl of Arundel , ³ and in 1164 an agreement was made between Henry abbot of Fécamp and John de Tresgoz touching the wood of Dures hurst , Perregate and ' Brunnes buri , ' Suss.4 In 1168 John and Philip de Tregoz owed 46s . 8d . for scutage of 31 fees , which they alleged was an over - charge made by the earl of Arundel.5 The sum was pardoned in 1189. Philip de Tresgoz was a benefactor to Boxgrove priory . He had sons William and Richard , living towards the end of the reign of Henry II . Philip's charter names 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 47] ===
 
 
 GORING AND PRESTON 31 


 
 
 his wife Emma and William his son and heir . Richard son of Philip was also a benefactor.8 


 In 1194 John de Tresgoz essoined himself de malo lecti at Goring against Ralph de St. Audoen in a plea of boundaries . He died about this time and on 8 April in the ensuing year John his son and successor made an agreement with Ralph de Argenciis , abbot of Fécamp , about the woodlands in Sussex named above , John's brothers , Henry and Thomas , consenting and Philip their uncle pledging himself to secure observance.10 In 1197 these 3 brothers were parties to a fine respecting lands at Mere , Bokelee and Bug kenden , Kent.11 


 
 
 10 


 John died soon after , for in 1201 a boundary was to be made between the land of Ralph de St. Audoen in Clapham and the land of Henry Tresgoz in Goring , 12 and the same year it was recog nized that Henry Tresgoz was over - charged 60s . of the first and 60s . of the second scutage in respect of fees held of the honor of Arundel.13 In 1202 Henry de Tresgoz remitted part of the service of William de Billingehurst for hide , namely the obligation of providing one entertainment ( convivium ) yearly at Henry's summons and providing a horse to carry his child from one manor to another ; thenceforth only the service of knight , part of the ancient service , was to be done.14 A similar remission was made a year later in respect of a small tenement in Goring.¹ 15 In 1203 the same Henry had a dispute with one of his tenants about lands in Goring and Billingshurst.16 He was named in 1213 among other knights of John de Monte Acuto , 17 and in 1219 was instituting proceedings against three sisters touching a tenement in Goring.18 In 1222 he and Thomas his brother were impleading Roger de Leiburn ( Eudes the sewer , n . 4 ) that he should hold to them the fine made in the court of Richard I between Robert father of the said Roger and John de Tresgoz and the said Henry and Thomas his brothers.19 In 1225 Henry Tresgoz was one of the knights who were directed to make a perambulation of the forest of Sussex.20 


 During the 13th century there were three successive tenants of the fee of Goring named Henry Tresgoz , two at least being knights . It is a mere surmise that the first survived until shortly after 1243 , the second until about 1290 , and the third until shortly after 1312 . In 1242-3 Hugh le Bygot held 6 fees in Goring of the honor of Arundel , 21 and in 1243 the service of 6 fees held by Henry Tresgoz was assigned to the dower of the countess Isabel.22 In 1256 Henry Tresgoz had respite for 3 years from knighthood , 23 and in the ensuing year a grant of a yearly fair at his manor of Goring and free warren in Goring , Dattisham and Warburton , Suss.24 He was appointed with others in 1264 to protect the sea - coast near Pevensey against marauders.25 In 1271 he acquired from Henry de Leghe ( n . 3 ) and Emma his wife for 250 marks the manor of Preston , subject to the claim of Master Gilbert de Mylers.26 In 1276 he released to Denis prior of Arundel his claim to the advowson of the church of Billingshurst.27 


 
 
 In 1275 Henry Tresgoz was said to claim wreck at Goring and to have appropriated warren in the same vill and in the manor of 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 48] ===
 
 
 32 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 Preston.28 Six years later it was found by recognition that neither Henry Tresgoz nor his ancestors had wreck of the sea in the manors of Goring and Preston , which right belonged to the castle of Arundel.29 In 1284-5 he was returned as holding 2 fees in Goring and Preston of Robert de Mohaut.3 30 He was presented in 1284 as having taken at Goring a tun of wine of wreck belonging to Arundel castle.31 


 
 
 Henry Tresgoz had letters of protection in 1295 on going to Scotland on the king's service.32 Down to 1312 there are numerous commissions appointing him keeper of the peace in Sussex and summoning him in 1295 to Carlisle with horse and arms.33 In 1303 Henry de Tresgoz settled the manor of Preston Mylers and land in Goring upon Thomas de Tresgoz , Nicholaa his wife , and their issue.34 


 
 
 Thomas Tresgoz was returned in 1316 as lord of Goring , Preston by Arundel , Burpham ( Bargham ' ) and Greatham.35 He held , on 4 Dec. 1314 and also in 1322 , 3 fees in Burpham , Greatham and Elmere , Suss.36 In 1321 he was going on pilgrimage to Santiago ; 37 in 1322 and 1323 he was a commissioner of array in Sussex.38 He obtained licence to crenellate his mansion of Dattisham in 1329.3 39 A great number of persons were in 1331 charged with breaking the park of Thomas Tresgoz at Goring ; 40 in that year he had a grant of free warren in Goring , Preston , Westham , Burpham , Storring ton , Parham , Greatham , Walderton and Dattisham , Suss . , and Bowley , Kent.41 He was deceased in 1335. In 1325 William Elmere held a messuage and 6 virgates in Elmere of Sir Thomas Tresgoz for fee and suit at his court at Bargham . ' 42 He appears to have acquired from William de Montfort the manor of Burpham with its members ( see n . 5 ) . 


 3 


 
 
 In 1388 the manor of Preston was in the king's hands by the death of Robert de Tresgoz knt . , son of Henry de Tresgoz and Joan his wife , and during the minority of Edward , son and heir of the said Robert , then aged 9 years.43 


 Some account of this family will be found in the Topographer and Genealogist , ii , 127 ff . , but several statements therein appear to require verification . No explanation can be offered of the reduction of the service for Goring from II fees in the time of Stephen to 3 fees in that of Edward II . 


 
 
 4. Ibid . n . 142 . 646-7 , nos . 7-9 . 


 2. Cal . Chart . iii . 420. 3. Round , Cal . of Docs . , 5. Pipe R. 14 Hen . II , p . 195 . 7. Cott . MS . Claud . A. vi . f . 65 . 9. R. Cur . Regis , i . 106-7 . 10. Cal . of Docs . , France , 11. Feet of F. ( Pipe R. Soc . ) , xx . 103 . 175. 13. R. Cancel . 236-7 . 14. Suss . Feet of F. i . 19 . 16. Abbrev . Placit . 37. 17. Ibid . 90. 18. Excerpt . i . 37 . Note Bk . n . 169. 20. R. L. Claus . ii . 8ob . 21. Testa , 222 . 23. Cal . Pat . 487 . 24. Cal . Chart . i . 473 . 26. Suss . Feet of F. ii . 72 . 27. Ibid . 98 . 29. Abbrev . Placit . 201. Cf. R. de quo war . 757 . 31. Cal . Misc . Inq . i . 384. 32. Cal . Pat . 167. 33. Ibid . pass . 34. Suss . 


 12. R. de Oblat . 15. Ibid . 21 . 19. Bracton's 22. Close R. 25. Cal . Pat . 247 . 28. R. Hund . i . 213 . 30. Feud . Aids , v . 128 . 


 II2 . 


 Feet of F. ii . 175. 35. Feud . Aids , v . 142. 36. Ibid . vi . 639 . 


 37. Cal . 


 Pat . R. 565 . 38. Ibid . 213 , 267 . 39. Ibid . 495 . 41. Cal . Chart . R. iv . 258. 42. Cal . Inquis . vi . 410 . 


 40. Ibid . 128 . 43. Cal . Close R. 


 231 , 524 . 


 
 
 1. Red Bk . 201 . France , n . 883 . 6. Mon. Anglic . iv . 8. Ibid . f . 66 . pp . 48-9 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 49] ===
 
 
 PULBOROUGH 33 


 
 
 III . 


 Pulborough ( 16 hides ) was held in 1086 of earl Roger by Robert ( son of Tetbald ) , whose tenants , Tetbald and Ivo , held of him 2 hides and virg . 


 2 


 Alart Flamanc attested a charter of William earl of Chichester of the time of Stephen , ¹ when 3 fees in Pulborough were held of the earl of Arundel.2 King Stephen confirmed to Lewes priory hide of the manor of Eastbourne at Langport given by Adelard le Flemeng . Adelard had given it for the souls of his wife Muriel and his son Adelard ; and William Fleming , son of Adelard , confirmed his father's gift.5 


 3 


 4 


 6 


 8 


 9 


 In 1191 Alard le Fleming held 1 fee in Gloucestershire , and in 1212 Alard held the same knight's fee of William Marshal of Good rich Castle , ' namely a knight's fee in Sapperton , Rissington and Frampton . In the last - named place the land of Alard's tenants was in 1215 delivered to him , because they were with the king's enemies . Alard died in the Holy Land in 1220 , when the sheriff of Gloucester was ordered to seise into the king's hands lands in Sapperton and Rissington , 10 and later to give Henry son and heir of the same Alard livery of his inheritance on providing security for his relief at £ 20.11 Matilda de Port , widow of Adelard the Fleming , granted land in Eastbourne to Lewes , her son Henry being a witness.12 In 1229 William de Molendinis passed by fine to Henry le Fleming hide in Pulborough , 13 and in 1235-6 the same Henry rendered to the aid in respect of I fee in Sapperton , Gloucs.14 He died about this time , for in 1236 John le Fleming was engaged in a suit respecting customs due for a tenement in Rissington , Gloucs.15 In 1242-3 John de Gatesden held 2 fees in Pulborough of the honor of Arundel 16 and in 1243 the service of 2 fees held by John le Fleming in Pulborough was assigned to the dower of Isabel countess of Arundel.17 In 1244 the reversion of these 2 fees , then held by Alard le Fleming , was assigned to the pourparty of Roger de Somery and Nicholaa his wife.18 


 
 
 John le Fleming died 1243-4 , and was succeeded by Alard his brother , who obtained a grant in 1247 ( renewed in 1260 ) of market and fair ( at Pulborough ) and free warren there and in Sapperton , Gloucs.19 His houses in the manor of Pulborough were accidentally burnt in 1252 , when he had licence to rebuild the same , with crenellation , in the park of Pulborough.20 He died in 1263 holding the said manor with land belonging thereto at Hey burn , the advowson of the church of Rudgwick , Suss . , and the manor of Sapperton , Gloucs .; Alice late the wife of his brother John le Fleming had her dower in the Gloucestershire lands , 21 and Henry , another brother , had an interest in the inheritance.22 Alard had married Emma , sister of John Maunsell , treasurer of York in 1260 , and provost of Beverley in 1253. In the last - named year a marriage had been arranged between Alard's daughter Joan and Matthew Hose's son Henry.23 Consequently at Alard's death in 1263 the custody of his lands until the heirs ' majority and their 


 
 
 III . D 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 50] ===
 
 
 34 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 marriage was granted for £ 100 to John Maunsell.24 In 1268 con firmation of the manor of Preston by Arundel , which Felicia de Millers , a Norman ( see n . 35 ) , gave to John Maunsell , clerk , a member of the king's household , was given to the said John and to his sister Emma , wife of Alard le Fleming.25 In 1275 the heirs of Henry le Fleming were said to have appropriated warren in Sussex.26 These heirs were Henry Huse and Joan his wife , Walter de L'Isle ( Insula ) and Florence his wife ; and in 1284-5 Henry son of Henry Huse , then in the king's custody , Walter de Yhill ( recte L'Isle ) and Henry de Leye , who had married Alard's widow Emma , held the vill of Sapperton for I fee.27 In 1302 Henry Huse and Walter de L'Isle each held 1 fee in Pulborough of Robert de Tateshall , 28 and fee in Great Rissington , Gloucs.29 


 
 
 Geoffrey Hosatus , of another branch of the family , at the request of his wife Gundreda de Warenne , about 1180 gave the church of Little Fakenham ( Fageham ' ) , Suffolk , to the priory of St. Denis near Southampton , presenting it to John bishop of Norwich ( 1175– 1200 ) ; and Gundreda afterwards confirmed this gift , the church being of her maritagium.30 The said bishop also confirmed it , by charter dated 1180.31 Gundreda de Warenne in 1200 offered 100 marks for having the custody of her son G. , and had paid 5 marks scutage for I knight's fee in Wiltshire.32 Geoffrey son of Geoffrey Hosatus , for the souls of himself and Mabel his wife , gave to St. Denis 7s . rent in Salisbury , to be spent as to 3s . on his own anniversary , 2s . on the feast of his patron St. Nicholas , and 2s . on the anniversary of his grandmother Hawise de Bellocampo.33 This Hawise was apparently mother of the Henry Hosatus 34 from whom the above - named Henry descended . 


 Walter de L'Isle and Henry Huse each held a fee in Pulborough in 1305 , valued at 100s . yearly.35 


 At his death in 1309 Walter de L'Isle held half the manor of Pulborough by the courtesy of England of the inheritance of Florence his wife , of Henry Huse , coparcener of the said Florence , springing from her elder sister , and half the manor of Great Rissing ton in like manner ; William his son by the same Florence was aged 28 years.36 In 1316 Henry Huse and William de L'Isle were joint lords of Pulborough.37 Henry died in 1332 holding a moiety of the manor of Pulborough with the park and land at Haybourn , Suss . , of John de Somery for fee , and a tenement , jointly with Isabel his wife , of William la Zousche , doing suit at William's court of Stopham ( n . I ( 4 ) ) ; a moiety of the manors of Sapperton and Rissington of the king ; lands on the honor of Giffard ( n . 62 of that honor ) , and other estates ; Henry his son was aged 30 and more.38 Dower was assigned to the relict in II manors or places.39 


 
 
 40 . 


 In 1341 Henry Huse held 3 fees in Harting , Chithurst and Pul borough of Alice late wife of William Bernak , who died that year . William de L'Isle died in 1345 holding a hall and lands in Pul borough of John de Somery for fee ; Walter his son was aged 28 and more.41 Henry Huse died in 1349 ; Henry son of Mark Huse , son of the said Henry , was aged 6 years.42 


 1 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 51] ===
 
 
 NUTBOURNE BY PULBOROUGH 35 


 
 
 14. Testa , 75-6 . 


 France , p . 511 . Bk . 73 . 10. Excerpt . i . 54 F. of F. i . 61 . 17. Close R. 112 . 20. Cal . Pat . 134 . 23. Cal . Pat . 170 . Chart . ii . 114 . Chart . ii . 166 . ii . 252 . 15314 , f . 12 . 


 18. Ibid . 251 . 21. Cal . Inquis . i . 171 . 24. Ibid . 1263 , p . 254 ; 26. R. Hund . i . 215 . 28. Cal . Inquis . iv . 107 . 30. Mon. Angl . vi . 214 ; Add . MS . 32. R. Cancell . 230 , 232 . 34. Mentioned in 1167 ; Pipe R. 13 Hen . II , 130. 35. Cal . Close R. 240 . 37. Feud . Aids , v . 142. 38. Cal . Inquis . vii . 40. Cal . Inquis . viii . 230. 41. Ibid . 


 1. Mon. Anglic . iv . 645. 2. Red Bk . 201. 3. Round , Cal . of Docs . , 4. Lewes Chartul . , Vesp . F. xv . f . 8o . 5. Ibid . 6. Red 7. Ibid . 157 . 8. Testa , 77 . 9. R. L. Claus . i . 235 . 11. Ibid . 57. 12. Vesp . F. xv . f . 95. 13. Sussex 15. Close R. 368. 16. Testa , 222 . 19. Cal . Chart . i . 326 ; ii . 29 . 22. Suss . F. of F. ii . 65 Excerpt . ii . 395. 25. Cal . 27. Feud . Aids , ii . 236 ; Cal . Cf. ibid . 51. 29. Feud . Aids , 15314 , f . 12. 31. Add . MS . 33. Add . MS . 15314 , f . 10 . 


 36. Cal . Inquis . v . 98 . 333 . 426 . 


 
 
 39. Cal . Close R. 469 . 42. Ibid . ix . 213 . 


 
 
 IV . 


 Nutbourne by Pulborough ( 6 hides ) in 1086 was held of earl Roger by Robert ( son of Tetbald ) , of whom Warin held it in demesne . Philip de Belmeis of Staffordshire was living in 1130.1 The late Mr. Eyton , the historian of Shropshire , 2 has given a full account of Philip's family and descendants . In the time of Stephen Philip de Belmeis I held 3 fees of the honor of Arundel.³ By Matilda , daughter ( base ? ) of William Meschin of Skipton , in Craven , he had issue Philip II , who succeeded , and was in turn succeeded by his brother Ranulf . Ranulf was living in 1167 ; 4 but in the follow ing year the sheriff of Sussex accounted for £ 6 of the issues of the land of Ranulf de Belmes . In that year Ranulf had accounted for £ 4 in respect of his knights , whom the Earl of Arundel claimed as belonging to his fee . Adelicia sister of Ranulf was the wife of Alan la Zouche , son of Geoffrey , vicomte de Rohan . William their son eventually succeeded to this tenement and to 6 knights ' fees in Sussex which his ancestors had held in chief of the crown , and he was known as William de Belmeis . Alan la Zoche , with the assent of Adelid his wife , granted land in Lutgarshall to Dureford abbey . " 


 5 


 6 


 
 
 9 


 In 1177 Alan la Zuche owed 40 m . for an unjust disseisin in Sussex . He died during the period 1190-1193 . His son , William de Belmeis , held 6 fees in chief in Sussex in 1195. He died in 1199 , when Roger la Zuche , his brother , owed £ 100 for his said brother's land.10 In 1204 the lands held of the honor of Petworth by Roger la Zouche were committed to the keeping of William Briwerre , who then had the custody of that honor.11 In a con temporary reference to an estate of the Belmeis family in Devon shire Roger is styled Roger'de Mortemer . ' 12 Roger died shortly before 14 May , 1238,13 and a month later the king took the homage of Alan his son and heir for lands held in chief in Devon and Shrop shire , and pardoned the relief due.14 


 
 
 In 1241 William de Percy complained that Alan la Zuche chased in his free warren in Petworth and Tillington ( n . 1 ( 2 ) ) , whereupon Alan released his claim.15 Alan held 1 fee ( sic ) in Nutbourne of the honor of Arundel in 1242-3.¹ 16 He had a grant in 1263 of free warren in Treve and Nutbourne , Suss . , North Molton 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 52] ===
 
 
 36 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 and Black Torrington , Devon , Ashby de la Zouche , Leics . , and Swavesey , Cambs.17 He held at his death in 1270 of Sir Henry de Percy 21 fees of the honor of Petworth ( no . 1 ( 2 ) ) and fee ( sic ) of Sir Robert de Mohaut ; Roger his son and heir was aged 30 years.18 


 
 
 In 1275 Ellen la Zouche held the manor of Treve in dower.19 In that year Roger la Zouche held of Robert de Mohaut 3 fees in Nutbourne , Woolbeding and Merston , 20 and dying in 1285 was succeeded by his son Alan , then aged 18,21 who had been married before July , 1276 , to Ela , then aged 8 , elder daughter of Emeline , countess of Ulster.22 In 1303 Alan held of Robert de Tateshale 3 fees in Nutbourne by Pulborough , Elbridge , Merston alias Weston and West Marden , Suss.23 In the ensuing year Alan settled his manor of Ashby de la Zouche , Leics . , his manor of Treve , Suss . , £ 12 worth of land in Nutbourne , the advowson of the church of Chiltington and chapel of Treve , Suss . , and lands in Cambridge shire , on himself for life with remainder to William la Zouche of Castle Richard and his issue.24 Alan died early in 1314 and two years later Aymer la Zouche was returned as lord of Nutbourne , and William la Zouche as lord of Treve , Suss.25 The inquest of 1314 states that Alan held by fine ( as above ) the manor of Treve with the advowson of the chapel of Henry de Percy for 5 fees , and £ 12 worth of land in Nutbourne and the advowson of the church of Chiltington of Robert de Mohaut , Roger de Sumery and the heirs of Robert de Tateshale by knight's service.26 


 William la Zouche‘de Mortemer ' died in 1337 holding the manor of Treve of Henry de Percy as of his manor of Petworth for 5 fees ; the manor of Nutbourne ( by Pulborough ) of Lady Isabel , queen of England , as of the honor of Mohaut for I fee ; Alan his son was aged 19 and more.27 Wardship of the lands was granted to Alan , son of William la Zouche de Mortemer , ' until the heir's lawful age.28 The grantee was apparently the heir himself . 


 Alan la Zouche had a grant of free warren in Treve , Nutbourne and Chiltington in 1344,29 and held at his death in 1346 the manor of Treve with the chapel and park of Henry de Percy for 5 fees ; of which Edward de St. John , le neveu , held 2 fees in Stopham , Linch and Yapton , Henry son of Roger 1 fee in Mersdon , Henry Romyn 


 30 


 fee in West Marden , Edward de St. John , le uncle , I fee in Lurgas hall and Coates , and Thomas de Foxele I fee in Rumboldswyke , all held of the said manor of Treve ; Hugh his son was aged 7 years . The four last tenements were held of the honor of Arundel ( n . 4 ) and not of that of Petworth ( n . 1 ( 2 ) ) . 


 
 
 1. Pipe R. 31 Hen . I , p . 76. 2. Hist . of Salop , ii . 194-223 . 


 3. Red 


 Bk . 201 . 


 194 . P. 191 . 


 12. Vol . i . 129. 13. Close R. 53. 14. Ibid . 61 . 


 4. Pipe R. 13 Hen . II . 5. Ibid . 14 Hen . II , p . 193. 6. Ibid . 7. Chartulary , Vesp . E. xxiii . f . 36d . 8. Pipe R. 23 Hen . II , 9. Red Bk . 92. 10. R. de oblat . 4. 11. R. Lit. Claus . i . 5b . 15. Suss . Feet of F. 18. Cal . Inquis . 21. Ibid . 345 , 451 . same in 1305 ; Cal . 


 i . 98-9 . 16. Testa , 222. 17. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 46 . i . 234 . 19. R. Hund . ii . 214. 20. Ibid . ii . 84 . 22. Ibid . IIO . 23. Cal . Inquis . iv . 107. He held the Close R. 240. 24. Sussex F. of F. ii . 181. 25. Feud . Aids , v . 142-3 . 26. Cal . Inquis . v . 255. 27. Cal . Inquis . viii . 65. 28. Cal . Fine R. V. 21. 29. Cal . Chart . R. v . 31. 30. Cal . Inquis . viii . 484 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 53] ===
 
 
 BINSTEAD AND MERSTON - GREATHAM 37 


 
 
 IV ( 1 ) . 


 Oismelin held of earl Roger in Binsted , Suss . , 4 hides , in Merston 6 hides . He also held of the archbishop I hide in Pagham . 


 Oismelin gave tithes of Merston to Troarn abbey.¹ He appears to have lost these tenements when Robert of Belême lost Arundel , for Merston was later in the possession of the Zouches ( n . 4 ) , to whom it had descended from Belmeis . Binsted appears to have returned to the demesne of Arundel . 


 1. Round , Cal . of Docs . France , n . 470 . 


 
 
 V. 


 Ernucion held of earl Roger in 1086 in Greatham , Suss . , 4 hides : in Tortington 3 hides . 


 
 
 Roger held of earl Roger in Burpham 5 hides and Nyetimber in Pulborough 4 hides , which Alward held of him ; Roger similarly held of the abbey of Almanesches ( in Clapham ? ) 2 hides belonging to Lyminster.¹ 


 
 
 Walter de Dunstanvill and Robert his brother attested a writ of William Rufus , of the period 1094-1098 , addressed to the barons and lieges of Shropshire.2 Robert attested writs of Henry I in III0 and 1114.3 He gave to the priory of Lewes the church of Burpham as recorded below . Robert also gave the chapel of Greatham . These gifts were confirmed by Ralph archbishop of Canterbury in the year 1121.5 The record of these gifts was evi dently drawn up in the reign of Stephen , and in this reference to the gift of the church of Burpham , as in other entries , the chronicler has added the name of the then tenant of the fee . Alan de Dunstan vill was at that time the lord of some part of Burpham , and Barp ham , wherefore the chronicler records : Ecclesiam de Bercham quam dedit nobis Robertus de Dunestanvilla , de feodo Alani nepotis sui , qui postea concessit redditum xx solidorum . ' Mr. Eyton , the great historian of Shropshire , has written a long and carefully compiled account of the family of Dunstanvill of Idsall , Salop , Heytesbury , Wilts . , and Burpham , Suss . , but , like other later writers , he fell into error in translating the nepos of the before cited record as ' nephew , ' where ' grandson ' should have been used.8 


 C 


 ? 6 


 7 


 
 
 9 


 Rainald or Reginald de Dunstanvill gave to Lewes the church of Winterburne , Wilts . Possibly he was son of Robert . He is alleged to have been present at the court of John bishop of Bath on 30 June , 1121.10 His danegeld in Surrey , amounting to 19s . , and in Wiltshire , amounting to £ 7 and 12d . , was remitted in 1130,12 as was that of Gundreda his sister in Wiltshire , amounting to 24s . 


 11 


 13 


 
 
 Robert de Dunstan vill , son of Reginald , succeeded . In 1155 he obtained Heytesbury , Wilts . , from Henry II.14 Mr. Eyton records many of his actions . He died in 1167-8 15 without male issue surviving , his heir being Walter , the son of his deceased brother Alan . In that year the sheriffs of Wiltshire and Devon 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 54] ===
 
 
 38 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 were discharged of their respective farms of the rents of 40 librates . of land in Heytesbury and 20 librates in Colyton ; and the aid of the men of Heytesbury , then due , was pardoned to Walter.16 


 Alan , father of Walter , had in 1141 attested a charter of the empress Matilda at Oxford , ¹7 and gave land in Nyetimber to Lewes priory , which gift William de Aubigny , as earl of Lincoln , con firmed evidently in the time of Stephen ; William de Dunstanvill and Walter his brother were witnesses.18 Possibly the tenement in Sussex , held of the fee of Arundel , had been the maritagium of Reginald's mother and descended to Alan as younger son . Alan held temp . Stephen 8 fees of the honor of Arundel 19 and died before 1156 , leaving issue : the above - named Walter his heir ; Alan of Shiplake , Oxon . , who married Muriel , daughter and coheir of Emma de Langetot by her husband , Geoffrey Fitz - William ( see Giffard , n . ) ; and Alice , to whom her brother Walter gave the manor of Salford , Oxon . , in frank marriage with Thomas Basset of Headington , whose son Gilbert gave 30 m . in 1200 20 for confirmation of this land , about which there had been a plea between Gilbert and Walter de Dunstanvill , son of Gilbert's uncle Walter de Dunstanvill , in the court of Richard I.21 


 
 
 In 1156 Walter son of Alan de Dunstan vill was pardoned danegeld in Sussex , amounting to 60s . , 22 and two years later his share of the donum of the county , viz . , 14s . 6d . , was also remitted.23 Walter de Dunstan vill confirmed to the monks of St. Pancras his parents ' gift of land in Nyetimber of his fee ; the witnesses included Robert de Dunstan vill and Herbert brother of the earl Rainald.24 William earl of Arundel III afterwards confirmed this charter of Walter's , the witnesses including Roger Rusteyn his seneschal , Robert de Vilers , and Manasser Aguillun.25 


 Walter held I fee in 1166 of Adam de Port 26 and two years later owed 3 marks for 3 fees which he alleged were in excess of what he held of the earl of Arundel.27 He was tenant in 1189 of 40 librates of land in Heytesbury , to which he had succeeded in 1168 , on the death of his uncle Robert , as above.28 Alan , probably brother of Walter , occurs in 1181 as keeper of the honor of Giffard , a position . due to his connexion by marriage with the important family of Langetot . For some reason the allowances to the sheriffs of Wilt shire and Devon in respect of the Dunstan vill lands ceased from Michaelmas 1171 to Easter 1173.2 29 In 1178 Colyton was taken into the king's hands.30 


 
 
 Walter's Wiltshire fee of 21 knights ' fees was in the king's hands in 1194.31 Mr. Eyton thought that Walter had temporarily lost it by forfeiture , 32 but it is more likely that he died , leaving Walter his son under age . The text of the Curia Regis roll of 1195 , printed by the Pipe Roll Society , proves that one at least of Mr. Eyton's conclusions , as to Walter's being alive in 1195 , is incorrect.33 Another of his references to Walter de Dunstan vill I clearly refers to Walter II , his son , whose mother had become the wife of Ingram de Pratellis.34 In 1222 Ingram de Pratellis and Sibil his wife demanded against Thomas Basset a third part of a carucate in Colyton , Devon , as Sibil's dower of the gift of Walter 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 55] ===
 
 
 GREATHAM AND TORTINGTON 39 


 
 
 de Dunstanvill , formerly her husband . Walter de Dunstanvill , who claimed the said manor , was Sibil's warrantor.35 


 
 
 In or before the year 1200 Walter de Dunstanvill gave the manor of Winterburne Basset , Wilts . , to Alan Basset , younger brother of . Gilbert Basset of Headington , named above , and younger son of Thomas Basset by his wife Alice de Dunstan vill . This gift was confirmed by king John in the year 1200.36 Walter de Dunstan vill II , for a marriage between his nephew Robert ( son of his brother John ) and Grace de Bohun , sister of the earl of Hereford , gave Grace for life a rent of £ 50 a year from Heytesbury and Colyton ; Robert de Dunstanvill , a younger brother , was a witness . 


 In 1204 the prior of Lewes was demanding against the younger Walter the patronage of the church of Burpham , Suss . , which Walter his father gave the priory by his charter.38 In 1215 Walter obtained a grant of a market and fair at his manor of Heytesbury , Wilts . , 39 which grant was renewed by Henry III in the year 1227.40 He gave land in Barpham in 1230 to the canons of the Causeway in Arundel ; 41 and died in 1241 , when Walter III gave £ 100 for relief of the lands in Shropshire and Wiltshire which his father had held in chief.42 In 1242-3 Walter held 5 fees in Burpham or Barpham ( Bergham ' ) of the honor of Arundel , 43 and in 1244 the service of his 5 fees in Burpham ( Bering ' ) , Dallington , Torting ton , Greatham and Elmer was assigned to the pourparty of Robert de Tateshale , as one of the coheirs of the earl of Arundel.44 1245 he had a renewal of the grant of a market at Heytesbury , Wilts.45 Walter de Dunstanvill , for the souls of himself and his wife Denise , confirmed to Lewes priory his ancestors ' gifts of Nye timber , the church of Winterbourne and tithe of Scaldeford.4 The Annals of Tewkesbury under date 21 Dec. 1246 record the death of W. , son and heir of Walter de Dunstan vill the younger , and his burial at Idsall.47 


 In 


 46 


 
 
 37 


 
 
 In December 1263 the prior of Lewes produced three charters . from three lords of Arundel , in the full hundred court of Easwrith held at Wiggenholt , proving that no suit was due from his land of Nyetimber . 48 


 
 
 Walter died early in 1270 , leaving Petronilla his daughter as heir ; she was 22 years of age and then wife of Robert de Montfort.49 Rohaise , Walter's relict , died in 1281. In 1269 Robert de Mont fort had obtained a charter of free warren in Burpham , Thornwicks and Ham.50 In 1275 Petronilla was said to have acquired free warren in Burpham recently . 51 Upon the death of her husband in 1274 52 she married John de La Mare , 53 who held 1 fee in Burpham in 1284-5 of the Earl of Arundel . 54 She was dead in 1292 , her son and heir William de Montfort being then still in his minority.55 In 1303 this William held 5 fees ( in the places named below ) of Robert de Tateshale , whereof the prior of Lewes held fee in Nyetimber , Suss . , in alms by the confirmation of king John . 56 Three years later William de Montfort held 5 fees in Burpham ( Bargham ' ) , Bepton , Greatham , Elmer and Tortington of Robert de Tateshale , 57 and in 1309 one moiety of his service was assigned to the pourparty of Joan de Dryby of the Tateshale 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 56] ===
 
 
 40 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 inheritance and the other to that of John de Orreby and Isabel his wife . 58 


 
 
 William de Montfort was living in 1309 , when he was pardoned for acquiring lands in Heytesbury from John de La Mare , who held them by the courtesy of England . 59 In 1311 he was deceased , leaving Hawise his wife surviving.60 Prior to his death he had granted to Bartholomew de Badelesmere the reversion of his estates in Wiltshire upon the death of John de La Mare , the tenant for life . In 1311 the said Bartholomew granted the said reversion after his decease and that of Margaret his wife to the king in exchange for certain other lands.61 Two years later John de La Mare died and Bartholomew obtained seisin.62 In 1314 Robert de Montfort , son of Robert de Montfort , for £ 400 released to Badelesmere his right in the estates in Wiltshire , Salop and Cheshire , late of William de Montfort , releasor's brother . 63 În 1316 Thomas Tresgoz was lord of this part of Burpham . 64 


 In 1339 and again in 1341 a moiety of 5 fees in Burpham ( Bargham ' ) , Bepton , Greatham , Elmere and Tortington was said to be held by William de Montfort ; 65 but this is a mere repetition of the entry found in 1303 and 1308 . 


 In 1387 , after the death of Joan late wife of Edward de St. John , knt . , the manors of Burpham and Ham , lands in Greatham and Cootham and rent in Wolderton , held for life by the said Joan by feoffment made to her and Henry de Tresgoz sometime her husband and the heirs of Henry , fell to Edward son of Robert son of the said Henry de Tresgoz by Joan his wife , together with the manor of Goring and its members . 66 The wardship of the heir was in the king's hands . 


 
 
 The later descent of Burpham and its members is obscure . In 1412 John Bohun held of the inheritance of his wife the manors of Preston , Ham , Burpham and Bewbush , Suss . 67 It would appear that his wife was the heir of Edward de Tresgoz named above . 


 
 
 1. V. C. H. Suss . i . 429 , 445b . 


 2. Cal . of Docs . France , n . 1234 . 4. Ibid . 5. Anct , Chart . Dugdale's Monasticon ( ed . 8. See Anct . Charters , p . 15 . 


 10. Itin . 


 3. Farrer , Itin . of Hen . I , nos . 250 , 316 . ( Pipe R. Soc . ) , 12 . 6. Mon. Anglic . v . 14 ; 1661 ) , ii . 908. 7. Op . cit . ii . 271-2 . 9. Mon. Anglic . v . 14 ; Round , Cal . of Docs . France , p . 509 . of Hen . I , n . 441. 11. Probably in Blackheath hund .; Pipe R. 13 Hen . II , p . 205. 12. Pipe R. 31 Hen . I , pp . 22 , 51. 13. Ibid . 22 . Bk . 649 , 664. 15. Pipe R. 14 Hen . II , 125 , 163. 17. Round , Geoffrey de Mandeville , 123 . F. xv . f . 126d .; Round , Cal . of Docs . France , p . 20. R. de Oblat . 67 . 21. R. Chart . 41b . 23. Ibid . 4 Hen . II , 182. 24. Cat . of Anct . D. v . A. 10912 . 


 14. Red 157 et pass . 16. Ibid . 18. Lewes Chartul . , Vesp . 510. 19. Red Bk . 201 . 22. Pipe R. 2 Hen . II , 61 . 25. Vesp . 27. Pipe R. 14 Hen . II , 195. 28. Ibid . 30. Pipe R. 25 Hen . II , 10. 31. Red 33. Rot . Cur . Regis ( Pipe R. Soc . xiv . ) , 


 F. xv . f . 127. 26. Red Bk . 280 . 


 I Ric . I , 171 . Bk . 95 . 


 94 , IIO . IOL , 1601 . 28206 , f . 21d . Chart . i . 30 . 43. Testa , 222 . XV . f . 126 . 


 29. See Pipe Rolls . 32. Op . cit . ii . 277 . 34. Hist . of Salop , ii . 279 , 281. 35. Bracton's Note Bk . nos . 36. R. Chart . 54. 37. Castle Combe Chartulary , Add . MS . 38. Abbrev . Placit . 95 . 39. R. Chart . 205. 40. Cal . 41. Cat . Anct . D. v . p . 1ỐI . 42. Excerpt . i . 351 . 44. Close R. 249. 45. Cal . Chart . i . 287. 46. Vesp . F. 47. Op . cit . 135. 48. Vesp . F. xv . f . 127. 49. Cal . Inquis . 


 i . 232 . 50. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 117 . Close , 103 . 53. Ibid . 1276 , p . 293–4 . R. cited by Eyton , op . cit . ii . 301 . 


 51. R. Hund . ii . 213b . 54. Feud . Aids , v . 128 . 56. Cal . Inquis . iv . 107 . 


 52. Cal . 55. Assize 57. Ibid . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 57] ===
 
 
 MARDEN AND OFFHAM 4I 


 
 
 260. Described as a moiety of 5 fees ; ibid . 265 . 59. Cal . Pat . R. 163 , 179 . 60. Cal . Close R. 356 . 391. 62. Cal . Close R. 15. 63. Ibid . 99. Cf. Cal . Pat . R. 1314 , p . 191 . 65. Cal . Inquis . viii . 164 , 230 . 67. Feud . Aids , vi . 523 . 


 66. Cal . Close 


 64. Feud . Aids , v . 142 . 


 R. 231 . 


 
 
 58. Cal . Close , 100-1 . 61. Cal . Pat . R. 


 
 
 VI . 


 Azo held of earl Roger in 1086 in Up ( ? ) Marden 4 hides ; in Offham 4 hides . See n . 20 . 


 William held of earl Roger in Lordington ( Harditone ' ) 4 hides . This holding and land in Strettington were later members of the honor of Petworth . 


 
 
 William de Faleise attested a royal confirmation of a gift of William de Braose in 1080 , and a final agreement in the court of William I in 1086 ( ? ) between William de Braose and the Holy Trinity of Fécamp.1 In the time of William I William de Faleise gave with his daughter to St. Mary's , Romsey , a hide of land in La Wyche² ( ? in Binsted , Hants ) . It is possible that this fee on the honor of Arundel came by feoffment of Henry I to a kinsman of William de Faleise , of whose daughter and heir and her issue Sir Henry Maxwell Lyte has treated in the Proceedings of the Somerset shire Archæological Society for 1919 ( lxv , 1 ff . ) . 


 It is suggested that the tenements described above represented 5 knights ' fees held temp . Henry I by Hugh de Faleise of the honor of Arundel . A mandate of Henry I was issued early in his reign to Richard de Belmeis , Hugh de Falaise and the barons of Sussex for the restoration to Ralph bishop of Chichester of land by the city - wall of Chichester . About the same period Hugh de Faleise , Alfred of Lincoln and Drew the huntsman attested a writ of Henry I in favour of Faritius , abbot of Abingdon.5 No gifts to monastic houses appear to have been made by Hugh de Faleise , nor has reference been found to point to the identity of his heirs . One John de Faleise attested with Joscelin the queen's brother , Robert Tresgoz and others , a charter of queen Adeliza to St. Mary's , Oseney , at a date between 1135 and 1150.6 


 7 


 Henry I confirmed to St. Martin's , Troarn , tithes of Offham given by Ascius ( Azo ) , and tithes of Grafan and Estretementon ' ( Strettington ) , 2 dwellings in Chichester and tithe of Merston which ( quam ) Oismelin gave.8 Oismelin was earl Roger's tenant in 1086 at Binsted and Merston ; Ernald or Arnald held 2 hides in Graffham and 2 hides in Strettington ; Augustin held 3 hides in Strettington , where other 10 hides were held by William ( see n . 14 ) . 


 9 


 In 1156 Hugh de Gundovill was pardoned 25s . of danegeld in Sussex . He had lands in Hampshire , Somerset , Devon and Gloucestershire , and in the last - named county his sister had 15 solidates of land in Winterburn in 1156,10 which she still held in 1189.11 Hugh de Gundevill and Agnes de Falaise his wife con firmed to Boxgrove a hide in Herting which Emma de Falaise , wife of Gilbert de Sartilli , gave them.12 Hugh also consented to his wife Agnes giving 3 hides in Huperton and another hide in East Harting to the lepers of St. Lazarus of Jerusalem.13 Hugh was a man of importance during the greater part of the reign of Henry II . He 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 58] ===
 
 
 42 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 served the office of sheriff of Hampshire from Easter , 1170 , to Michaelmas , 1179 , soon after which date he died . He was succeeded in office in 1179 by Geoffrey son of Azo , or Aze , who married his niece ( ? ) Agnes , sometimes described as Agnes de Faleise . Geoffrey remained in office until Michaelmas , 1189. Hugh de Gundevill appears to have made the first grant of free burgage to the burgesses of Chipping Campden , Gloucs.14 ( Chester , n . 16 ) . In 1166 he was a tenant of the honor of Gloucester of new feoffment.1 15 He had been pardoned danegeld in 1162 in Sussex amounting to 52s.16 He died early in 1181 , in which year Robert de Gundevill proffered 40 m . for seisin of a knight's fee in Tarrant Gunville , Dorset , as he had it before the death of Hugh his uncle.¹7 At the same time Hamelin de Gundevill owed 10 m . for seisin of 2 fees in Hamme , Dorset , as he had it before the death of Hugh his uncle.18 Hugh's lands in Langport , Curry and Cheddarfield ? ( Cedrefeld ) , Somerset , and in the honor of Arundel , in various places in Sussex , were in the king's hands at Michaelmas , 1181.19 Peter Saracen had Hugh's land in Lordington , on the honor of Petworth , in 1185.20 About the same time Henry II gave Hugh's land in Strettington ( in Boxgrave , Suss . ) to Henry Turpin , who is described in 1189 as Henry brother of Turpin.21 Lands in Offham and Up Marden will be referred to later . In Hampshire in 1190 it was recorded that Geoffrey son of Azo owed 300 marks as fine for having right of his wife's inherit ance.21a In 1199 William Turpin proffered 40 marks for seisin of his lands , whereof he had been disseised by King Richard.22 In the ensuing year Geoffrey son of Hascu , otherwise Azo ( Acius ) , and Agnes his wife claimed this land . The pleadings state that Henry II gave to Henry Turpin , his chamberlain , the land of Strettington ( Strathamton ' ) , who held it until King Richard took his way to Jerusalem , the said Henry accompanying him ; then came Geoffrey son of Hascu and Agnes his wife and claimed the land ; and Henry being dead , William Turpin his son applied to the king , who was then at Messina , and recovered his seisin as Henry's heir , and so held the land until William earl of Arundel disseised him at his will , because the earl knew that king Richard bore ill will against him , the said William Turpin . He obtained seisin.23 In 1205 Agnes de Gundevill demanded against William Turpin , tenant , a knight's fee in Strettington ; and gave him 15 marks for an acknow ledgment of her right.24 


 From the pleadings cited below it appears that Henry II , while in possession of the honor of Arundel ( 1176-89 ) , gave Offham to Hugh Esturmi to hold by the service of two parts of a knight's fee . When William d'Aubigny ( 1189-93 ) regained the honor he confirmed this grant , and his son , as William earl of Sussex , con firmed to Hugh Esturmi Offham with all its appurtenances , saving the service due to the king and himself , viz . two - thirds of a knight's fee . His uncles Henry and Reyner d'Aubigny were witnesses.25 


 
 
 In 1203 there was a plea between Agnes de Gundevill and Hugh Esturmi , the tenant , touching land in Offham.26 Later in that year an assize came to recognize if Agnes , aunt of Agnes de Gunde vill , was seised at her death of 2 carucates in Offham which Hugh Esturmi then held ; it was found that Henry II gave Hugh the 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 59] ===
 
 
 MARDEN AND OFFHAM 43 


 
 
 land by charter , which was produced , to hold by the service of 2 fee.27 Apparently Hugh de Nevill had obtained some interest in the land of Agnes de Gundevill in 1212 , when he granted by fine to Hugh Esturmi , the tenant , the moiety of fee in Offham.28 


 3 


 4 


 In 1208 a jury found that Agnes de Faleise , late the wife of Geoffrey son of Azo and aunt of Margaret , Dionisia and Florence , daughters of Richard Murdac , was seised at her death of a third of a fee in Up Marden ( Normaneden ' ) , Suss . , which William Aguillon ( n . 20 ) then held , who called to warranty Alvred de Lincoln , who came and warranted ; and further they found that the said Mar garet , Dionisia and Florence were her next heirs ; whereupon they obtained seisin and Alvred de Lincoln was in mercy for detinue.29 In 1235 William Aguillun was impleading Walter de Lymesi and Margery his mother , the tenants , for fee in Normerdon . ' 30 In 1241 William Aguillon remised to Walter de Limesi a third part of a fee in North Merdon ' for 16 marks.31 Richard Aguillon's interest in this land was acquired through his wife Margery , one of the 3 sisters and coheirs of Richard de Toreini , or Thorney , tenant of Thorney , Walton and Chidham , and of land in Bosham , Suss . , who was son and heir of William de Toreini . See the pedigree : 


 
 
 Richard de = Toreini d . s.p. ante 


 Trin . 1222 . 


 
 
 Matilda , 1223 . 


 
 
 William Aguillon 


 
 
 William de Toreini , Torinni vel Tornei . Land in Thorneye , Walton , Chadham , and I c.in Boseham . 


 
 
 Margery 


 Richard 


 Aguillon . 


 
 
 Hugh le By- Margaret 


 goth , Suss . Fines , 712 , 718 . 


 nos . 


 
 
 = 


 
 
 Robert Richard de 


 Grenested 


 
 
 William de la Faleyse , s . and h . 


 
 
 John . 


 These had 


 half M. of 


 Burpham , Suss . Fines , ( 2 ) Rich . la pp . 56 , 77 . 


 Laye . 


 
 
 === 


 
 
 Grenested . 


 
 
 Mabel , living Jan. , 


 1223 . 


 
 
 Juliana , 


 1252 


 
 
 Ellis de la Faleyse , Suss . Fines , 


 nos . 


 718 , 


 786 . 


 
 
 Cecily , occ . 36 Hen . 3 . 


 Gilbert le Mareschal . 


 
 
 Excerpt . Fin . ii . 132 . 


 
 
 Christiana living1270-1 , Excerpt . ii . 528 . 


 
 
 Alice , 


 Abbrev . Plac , 220b . Christiana ? 


 Suss . Fines , n . 891 . 


 
 
 = Adam de Clo hale , vel Clo thale , sent to gaol in 1281 , for calling a Woman his wife who was not , Abbrev . Plac . 2016 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 60] ===
 
 
 44 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 In 1222 the representatives of the heirs of Richard de Toreini acknowledged two - thirds of fee in Offham to be the right of Reginald Aguillon to hold of them for 4 marks yearly.32 Next year Richard de Grensted , Gilbert le Mareschal and Cecily his wife , and William Aguillon , complained that Matilda , the wife of Richard de Toreini , had more dower than she was entitled to have , namely in Thorney and Chidham.33 In 1225 Hugh Senzaver impleaded these heirs for I hide in Bosham which he acquired by fine in the time of John from Richard de Thorneye , brother of Cecily and uncle of Richard de Grensted and William Aguillon.34 Some years later , viz . in 1236 , the same parties 35 released by fine to Walter de Limesi and Margaret de Limesi their rights in fee and fee in Strettington for 10 marks.36 


 
 
 In 1214 Eudes de Bello Campo claimed the patronage of the chapel of Lordington against the prior of Lewes , who replied that it was a chapel of the church of Stocton ( Stoughton ) , of which the patronage belonged to the priory of Lewes.37 In 1226 Hugh de Nevill was impleading Reginald Aguillon , tenant , for the manor of Offham , Eudes de Bello Campo , tenant , for the manor of Lord ington , and Margery late the wife of Nicholas de Limesy , tenant , for the manor of Strettington , Suss.38 If a record of this plea exists it might explain Nevill's relation to these tenements . The obvious suggestion would be that he had obtained a grant of the rights formerly held by Hugh de Gundevill in these places . 


 In 1242 Walter de Limesy was insane , his chattels in Gloucester shire being in the charge of Matilda his wife.39 In 1242-3 he held I fee in Strettington of the honor of Arundel and Robert de Bello Campo similarly held 1 fee in Lordington.40 In 1243 the service . of 1 fee held by John de Limeseye ( in Strettington ) and fee held by William Cuvett and Mary his wife , Ralph de St. Owen and Godeheuda his wife , Peter de Gatesden and Cecily his wife , Robert Haget and Alice his wife ( in Strettington ) was assigned to the dower of Isabel late the wife of Hugh earl of Arundel . " 41 In 1244 the service of the above fee in Sussex and of 1 fee in Lordington held by William de Bello Campo was assigned to the pourparty of Roger de Somery and Nicholaa his wife ; 42 that of 1 fee in Strettington held by John de Limeseye , of fee in the same vill held by Walter de Cherleton , of fee in La Grave ( n . 25 ) held by John de Gatesden , was assigned to the pourparty of John Fitz - Alan ; 43 that of fee in La Grave held by John de la Grave was assigned to the pourparty of Robert de Tateshale.44 The tenement held by the Aguillons in Up Marden merged in the fee which they held of the honor of Arundel . ( See n . 20. ) Few references to Strettington are found of later date than those given above . Some portion of the vill subsequently seems to have been merged in the honor of Halnaker.45 


 20 


 
 
 In 1282 John Tracy acknowledged by fine that the manor of Lordington belonged to Matilda Estur and Walter de Insula the younger , with remainder to Walter's issue and in default to his brothers John and Walter.46 Six years later Tracy was called to warrant Matilda Estur and John de L'Isle in possession of this 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 61] ===
 
 
 MARDEN AND OFFHAM 45 


 
 
 manor , excepting a mill and the advowson of the church , Ralph de Bello Campo having claimed it against them . Ralph then , at Tracy's request , granted the manor to Matilda for her life to be held by the service of one knight and by doing suit to Richard Fitz - Alan's hundred of Westbourne ; with remainder after her death to John de L'Isle and issue , or in default to Geoffrey the brother of John.47 


 
 
 10 


 In 1337 John Haket , Ralph de St. Owen and another held fee in Strettington of Hugh de St. John.48 In the time of Henry III the prior of Arundel acquired a wood in Offham from Cecily de Gatesdene and Alice Haket.49 


 
 
 The Great Inquest of Service taken in 1212 has the following reference to the family of Esturmi : 


 
 
 Sturmi had certain land outside Chichester , where the king's garden now is , which rendered 10s . yearly , for which the earl of Arundel gave him in exchange land in the city and without , which used to render 18s . 41d . Hugh Sturmi , son and heir , holds that land quit by the king's charter and for 6d . yearly . After Hugh had the king's charter he bought lands in the city which used to render 2s . 9d . and these like the others he holds by the said acquittance.50 


 
 
 Hugh Esturmy was one of those who made the perambulation of the forest of Sussex near Chichester in the year 1225 . 51 John Estormi , knt . , son and heir of Hugh Estormi , knt . , with the assent of Rose his wife , gave to Boxgrove a rent of 2s . from a house in Chichester . 52 Another Hugh was with the king in Gascony in 1253 and was exempted the following year from assizes and juries . 53 In 1272 Peter de la Faleyse acknowledged the right of Hugh Esturmi in a messuage and carucate in West Lavant , for which Hugh granted the tenement to Peter and Alice his wife and their issue . 54 In 1282 Hugh Sturmy held of John de Nevill ( the forester ) fee in a place in Sussex unnamed , but possibly in Offham.55 


 1 


 
 
 John Estormi confirmed to Boxgrave a grant made by his father Hugh , and gave the monks land in West Tichenor , 56 and John's daughter and heir Sara confirmed.57 


 
 
 Peter de Champvent died in 1303 holding the manor of Offham jointly with Agnes his wife by the demise of William Sturmy to them and the heirs of Peter , to hold of Hugh de Nevill for fee ; John his son was aged 30.58 


 ( sic ) 


 In 1303 Roger de Bello Campo held 1 fee in Lordington ; Richard de Pickeford ( see n . 21 ) , Robert le Botiler , and Ralph de la Grave each held fee in La Grave , Suss . , of Robert de Tates hale . 59 Roger held the same fee in 1305,60 and others of those named held the same tenements in 1306 of Robert son and heir of Robert de Tateshale . 61 In 1309 the tenements in La Grave were assigned to the respective pourparties of John de Orreby and Joan his wife , and Joan de Driby.62 John de Chavent was one of the lords of Offham in 1316,63 and in 1322 he held 1 fee in Offham of Hugh de Nevill . 64 


 In 1341 Juliana de L'Isle held 1 fee in Lordington and John de la Grave fee in La Grave of Alice late wife of William de Bernake . 65 


 
 
 1 


 40 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 62] ===
 
 
 46 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 201 . 


 1. Davis , Regesta , 33 , 127 . 4. Mon. Anglic . vi . 6. Cal . Chart . iii . 420 . n . 470 . 8. Round , ibid . 


 2. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 105 . 3. Red Bk . 1168 , n . 28. 5. Chron . de Abingdon , ii . 82 . Ibid . iv . 282 ; Round , Cal . of Docs . , France , 9. Pipe R. 2 Hen . II , p . 61. 10. Ibid . 49 . 11. Ibid . I Ric . I , p . 163. 12. Cott . MS . Claud . A. vi . ff . 75 , 67 ; Geoffrey 


 7 . 


 son of Azei and Ellis de Gundevill were witnesses . 


 14. Cal . Chart . i . 340. 15. Red Bk . 291. 16 . 17. Pipe R. 27 Hen . II , p . 10. 18. Ibid . 21. Ibid . 1 Ric . I. p . 213 . 23. Abbrev . Placit . 26 , 30 . 


 13. Vesp . E. xxiii . f . 77 . Pipe R. 8 Hen . II , p . 31 19. Ibid . 4 , 146. 20. Ibid . 21a . Ibid . 2 Ric . I. m . 12 . 24. Suss . Feet of F. i . 24 . 


 31 Hen . II , p . 172 . 22. R. de Oblat . 7 . 25. Harl . Ch . 45 , B. 29 . 28. Suss . Feet of F. i . 32 . 31. Suss . Feet of F. i . 104 . 35. Ibid . 79 . 


 26. Abbrev . Placit . 44b . 29. Abbrev . Placit . 56b . 32. Ibid . 45 . 


 27. Ibid . 42 , 44 . 30. Close R. 192 . 33. Ibid . i . 47. 34. Ibid . 


 51 . 


 37 . 


 89 . 


 36. As in the fine of 1223 . 38. R. L. Claus . ii . 149. 39. Close R. 463 ff . 41. Close R. 112 . 42 Ibid . 251-2 . 43. Ibid . 250 . See nos . 19 and 25. 45. Cf. Cal . Inquis . ix . 41 . 47. Ibid . 147. 48. Cal . Ing . p.m. viii . 31 . 


 Abbrev . Placit 40. Testa , 222 . 44. Ibid . 249 . 


 46 . 


 Suss . Feet of F. 49. Cal . Close R. 


 ii . 125 . 


 1331 , p . 261. 50. Bk . of Fees , 73. 51. R. Lit. Claus . ii . 8ob . 52. Cott . 


 53. Cal . Pat . R. 232 , 295 . 55. Cal . Inquis . ii . 256 . 


 MS . Claud . A. vi . f . 86d . of F. ii . n . 822 , n . 1041 . f . 83 , 83d . 57. Ibid . f . 102d . 37. 59. Cal . Inquis . iv . 107 . iv . 260 , 265. 62. Cal . Close , 101 . vi . 639. 65. Cal . Inquis . viii . 230 . 


 
 
 54. Suss . Feet Claud . A. vi . Cal . Close R. 61. Cal . Ing . 


 64. Ibid . 


 
 
 56 . 58. Cal . Inquis . iv . 94 ; 60. Cal . Close R. 240 . 63. Feud . Aids , v . 143 . See also ix . 147 . 


 
 
 VII . 


 Two knights ' fees held by Stephen ' of the honor of Arundel in the time of Henry I , or Stephen , have not been identified . Possibly they were either the 2 fees which Ralph de Toeni denied that he held of the earl of Arundel in 1168 , or the 2 fees which Rolland de Dinan similarly denied that he held of the earl at the same date . See nos . 35-36 below . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 VIII . 


 Rainald in 1086 held of earl Roger in North Stoke , Suss . , 8 


 hides . 


 In the time of Henry I or Stephen 2 fees in Stoke belonged to the honor of Arundel . The late Mr. Eyton has elaborated the descent of the Shropshire family of Girros in his History of Shrop shire . There were several Roberts successively in the line . The first occurs in 1138-9 , and in 1155 , as tenant of land in Salop by serjeanty . Robert de Girros , possibly second of the name , died circa 1190 ; the third Robert was in possession of his inheritance in 1196. A few years later his sister Isabel had carried the serjeanty at Burton , Salop , to her husband , Thomas de Costentin.¹ In 1212 the land of Robert de Girros was committed to Thomas de Erdinton , among the estates being North Stoke , Suss . Robert returned to allegiance in 1217 , but did not regain possession of North Stoke until after the death of Thomas de Erdinton ( who held it of the gift of William Fitz - Alan ) 3 in 1218 , in which year custody of the manor of North Stoke , late of Thomas de Erdinton , was committed to Philip de Ascelles on 22 March , and on 5 September to earl William Marshal.5 Mary daughter of Thomas de Erdinton had been married by her father to William Fitz - Alan , eldest son of 


 2 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 63] ===
 
 
 NORTH STOKE - SOUTH STOKE 47 


 
 
 William Fitz - Alan who died in 1214.6 She had her dower in Mileham , Norf . " It would be interesting to know how North Stoke came into the possession of the Fitz - Alans . Possibly it was by reason of some feudal dependency in respect of land in Shropshire . 


 
 
 In 1216 the sheriff of Sussex was notified that the king had given to Savary de Bohun 15 librates of the land late of William Fitz - Alan ( deceased ) in Stoke , to hold during pleasure . In 1230 there was a plea between the bishop of Chichester and those whose names follow touching the making of bounds between his land in Amberley and Ferring and the abbot of Fécamp's land in Bury , the land of the prior of Arundel in Arundel , the land of John Fitz Alan in [ North ] Stoke , the land of Hugh de Nevill in [ South ] Stoke , and the land of Amfrey de Fering in Ferring.9 In 1242-3 Robert de Girros held 1 fee in Stoke of the honor of Arundel.¹ 10 In the ensuing year the service of his said fee was assigned to the dower of Isabel , countess of Arundel , ¹¹ and in 1244 to the pourparty of Robert de Tateshale.12 With the death of Robert de Girros before October , 1251 , the connexion of his line with North Stoke termi nated . In 1254 John Fitz - Alan obtained a grant of free warren in various Shropshire manors and in that of Stoke , Suss.13 He held the manor of North Stoke in 1272,14 and in 1284 Matilda , late the wife of Richard de Amundevill , alias Lady Maud de Verdoun , died possessed of tenements in North Stoke , Suss . , which some time had been assigned to dame Matilda de Verdoun in dower . Richard Fitz - Alan , then aged 18 , was her next heir.15 At the death of Richard , earl of Arundel , in 1302 the manor of North Stoke was held with other manors by Henry de Guldeford for life by the earl's demise.1 16 In 1330 the grange of North Stoke with land and the advowson of the church was in the demesne of Edmund earl of Kent , who died that year.17 The manor was later delivered to earl Edmund's son Richard as a member of the castle and honor of Arundel.18 In 1337 Richard earl of Arundel alienated the advowson of the church to the prior of Tortington.19 


 
 
 i . 279 . 4. R. L. Claus . i . 356b . Fin . 531 ; Excerpt . i . 39 . i . 2486. 9. Close R. 403. 10. Testa , 222. 11. Close R. 112. 12. Ibid . 249 . 


 1. Op . cit . vols . iii.-iv. pass . 2. R. L. Claus . i . 121. 3. Cal . Inquis . 5. Excerpt . e R. Fin . i . 17. 6. R. de 7. R. L. Claus . i . 356b , 382. 8. Ibid . 


 13. Cal . Pat . 263 . 16. Ibid . iv . 51 . See pp . 15-16 . 


 14. Cal . Inquis . i . 279 . 15. Ibid . ii . 325 . 17. Ibid . vii . 227 . 18. Cal . Close R. 191 , 202 . 19. Cal . Pat . R. 424 . 


 IX . 


 Ernald held of earl Roger in 1086 in South Stoke 4 hides ; in Up Waltham 2 hides , and in Graffham 2 hides . Ernald had a burgess in Arundel . 


 It is possible that this tenement was in the possession of Robert de Curci in 1130 , when he had remission of 18s . of the danegeld in Sussex.¹ If so , the later tenure by Cauz under Nevill the Forester would be explained . H. de Nevill , for the soul of king Richard and others , confirmed to Boxgrove a meadow in his manor of • Stogs . ' 2 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 64] ===
 
 
 48 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 4 


 5 


 In the time of Stephen Hugh de Calceo or Cauz held 3 fees of the honor of Arundel . In 1158 Robert de Calz accounted in Sussex for 1 mark of gold , which was pardoned . In the account of the custos of the honor of Arundel for 1180 the debt of Godfrey de Calz of 25 marks for his relief is recorded , and various pay ments in liquidation of the debt are accounted for during subse quent years . Before 1207 Godfrey was dead ; but Muriel his wife was then surviving . Robert de Čauz , apparently son of Godfrey and Muriel , appears to have been engaged in a plea with Hugh de Nevill the Forester touching this tenement , for in that year he gave 20 marks for the summoning of 4 liege knights of Sussex to be before the king on the quindene of St. John's day ( 8 July , 1207 ) to elect nine of the more liege of the knights of Sussex , who best knew the truth , to make a recognition - with Philip de Cumbe , William de Offinton and Robert de Stanton - between Hugh de Nevill , demandant , and Robert de Cauz , tenant , touching the fee of 2 knights in Stoke , whereof the same Robert , who was tenant , put himself on the grand assize and sought for recognition to be made as to which of them had the greater right in the said fee , because all the knights first chosen to make that assize , except the said Philip , William and Robert , had been removed by considera tion of the lord the king , because they , like Robert de Cauz , had been enfeoffed of the tenement which had been Robert de Bellême's ( de Belalm ' ) . On the octaves of the following Michaelmas Robert acknowledged by fine that the manor of Stoke was the right of Hugh de Nevill . In this acknowledgment Hugh granted the manor to be held by the same Robert and Agnes his wife , who was the daughter of Richard de Cestre , and the heirs begotten of Agnes , by the service of 3 knights and 40s . yearly service to Hugh ; in default of issue between them the manor was to revert to Hugh , saving the dower of Agnes for her life and of Muriel , mother of Robert , which she had by the gift of Godfrey de Cauz , for her life . Which concord was made in the presence of William , earl of Arundel , chief lord of that fee , who took the homage of Hugh of the said manor , to be held by Hugh of the earl by the service of 3 fees . " Robert de Cauz appears to have died without issue , for in 1227 Hugh de Nevill had licence to demise for 10 years to Ralph , bishop of Chichester , the manor of Stoke , Suss . , in accordance with a grant made to Hugh by Hubert de Burgh , keeper of the honor of Arundel.8 Hugh died in 1234 , when John his son and heir gave 300 marks for the bailiwick of the king's forest for life from Stamford Bridge to Oxford Bridge , for £ 20 yearly rent , as his father had it by the grant of King John.9 


 6 


 
 
 In 1241 the sheriff of Sussex was ordered to extend inter alia 20 librates of land in the manor of Stoke , late of Hugh de Nevill , and give seisin thereof to Beatrice de Fay ( relict of Hugh de Nevill ) , for her support while proceedings for divorce were pending between her and Hugh de Plaiz , her husband , so that she might not be in want ; those 20 librates being part of the dower which she ought to have by the gift of Hugh de Nevill , formerly her husband.10 


 In 1242-3 John de Nevill held 3 fees in Warningcamp and 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 65] ===
 
 
 SOUTH STOKE - BILSHAM 49 


 
 
 South Stoke of the earl of Arundel , ¹¹ and in 1244 the service of 3 fees held by John de Nevill in Stoke , Warningcamp , Waltham and Graffham was assigned to the pourparty of Roger de Somery and Nicholaa his wife.12 John de Nevill died in 1246 , ¹³ his son Hugh being apparently under age ; but of age in 1256.14 Hugh died in 1269 , when John his brother and heir did homage and had livery of his brother's lands.15 John de Nevill died in 1282 holding inter alia I fee in South Stoke and Warningcamp of the king in chief , fee in ( Waltham ? ) , held of him by Hugh Sturmy , and ½ fee in Graffham , held of him by Robert Trottemenn by doing suit at the court of South Stoke ; Hugh his son was aged 4 years . 


 16 


 In 1283 Albin de Bovery was keeper of the manor of South Stoke and Warningcamp during the minority of Hugh son of John de Nevill , ¹7 and in 1294 the grant of custody to the said Albin was extended so as to include the advowson of the church of South Stoke.18 Hugh de Nevill , son and heir of John de Nevill , being of age in 1298 , obtained seisin of his father's lands in the counties of Nottingham , Essex , Buckingham , Sussex , Devon and Lincoln.19 


 
 
 It does not appear how or when Thomas de Praers ( ? of Heding ham Sibil , Essex ) acquired these tenements , but in 1316 he was returned as lord of South Stoke and joint lord of Warningcamp.20 A fuller account of this branch of the Nevill family will be found under Curcy , n . 17 . 


 
 
 In 1378 Richard earl of Arundel alienated to certain chaplains in his chapel of Arundel rent out of various manors , including that of South Stoke , in augmentation of the number of chaplains which earl Richard , his father , had established with rents of 107 marks out of his manors of Angmering , Wepham and Warningcamp.21 


 
 
 11. Testa , 222 . 


 12. Close R. 


 1. Pipe R. 31 Hen . I , 72. 2. Cott . MS . Claud . A. vi . f . 90. 3. Red Bk . 201. 4. Pipe R. 4 Hen . II , p . 182 . 5. Ibid . 26 Hen . II , p . 33 . 6. R. de Fin . 374. 7. Sussex Feet of F. i . 27. 8. Cal . Chart . i . 57 ff . 9. Excerpt . i . 260. 10. Close R. 272 . 251. 13. Excerpt . e R. Fin . i . 461. 14. Excerpt . ii . 228 . 498 . 16. Cal . Inquis . ii . 256 . 17. Cal . Pat . R. 1283 , p . 105 . 1294 , p . 68. 19. Cal . Close , 162. 20. Feud . Aids , v . 142-3 . Pat . R. 151 . 


 
 
 15. Ibid . 18. Ibid . 21. Cal . 


 
 
 X. 


 Hugh held Bilsham ( in Yapton ) of earl Roger in 1086 for 4 hides and ( in the same place ? ) 3 hides which Warin held of him . Hugh similarly held Slindon ( 8 hides ) and 8 hides in a place unnamed , possibly Mellers ( later Madehurst ? ) . 


 
 
 Henry I gave to the archbishop of Canterbury 2 knights ' fees in Slindon , Suss . , of the rape of Arundel , whereof in 1212 the service was demanded of the earl of Arundel , who had nothing there nor received anything thereof.¹ 


 
 
 In 1130 


 Ragnulf Avenel attested a charter of Robert count of Mortain at St. Martin's , Marmoutier , in or before 1082.2 William Patric accounted in Kent for 50 marks of the debt of Ranulf , Avenel's son , for relief of his land.³ Before 1157 William Avenel attested a charter of William earl of Chichester , to the 


 III . 


 
 
 12 


 
 
 E 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 66] ===
 
 
 50 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 4 


 monks of Troarn , and the same earl's confirmation to the cathedral church of Chichester , made apparently after the death of Queen Adeliza in 1151.5 


 
 
 A charter of Richard Avenel to the abbey of St. Nicholas , Blanchelande , of the period 1151-1157 mentions Richard's brother ( ? elder ) William Avenel , and William's son Richard Avenel . “ Ralph and Robert Avenel occur in Gloucestershire early in the reign of Henry II . 


 
 
 In the time of Stephen , and possibly in 1166 , Avenel ' held 5 fees of the honor of Arundel . In 1166 ' Avenel ' was a tenant of Simon de Bello Campo of fees of both old and new feoffment , 8 and tenant also of Matilda the wife of Roger de Clare.9 


 In 1179 John Avenel was amerced in Buckinghamshire 10 and in 1194 John Avenel was engaged in a suit with Urso de Linces touching 2 virgates in Berges , Suss.11 In 1197 an agreement was made by John Avenel and his tenant touching a virgate and 6 a . land in Bilsham.12 


 
 
 C 


 
 
 At this time another family of Avenel had an interest at Bicknor , Gloucs . In 1167 and for a number of years the sheriff of Gloucester accounted for a mark from 2 virgates in Sandhurst then held by Ralph Avenel ; Robert Avenel accounted for a mark for forest pleas.13 In 1171 Ralph's name in the record of this account was altered from ' Robert . " 14 In 1176 Ralph was amerced in Gloucester shire 20 marks and a destrier for forest pleas , and in Herefordshire he accounted for a like fine for custody of Philip de Broi's son.15 In 1200 Ralph Avenel had a grant of a market at his manor of Bicknor.16 In 1217 custody of the land and heir of Ralph Avenel with the marriage of the heir and the castle of Bicknor was com mitted to John de Erlegh.¹ 17 In 1223 William Avenel gave a fine of 40 marks for the land of Ralph Avenel his father with the bailiwick and castle of Bicknor ; 18 and in the ensuing year an inquiry was ordered into the acts of Ralph Avenel at Bicknor in the time of King John , William Avenel being Ralph's son and heir.19 


 In 1195 . . . Avenel was beyond seas with John count of Mortain ; the land of William Avenel in the hundred of Cadworth , Wilts . , was in the king's hands.20 


 4 


 In 1220 Herbert son of Wulwin released to Sabina Avenel and William Avenel her son 1 virgate in Bilsham for 4 marks.21 In 1237 in a plea of warranty of charter William Avenel acknowledged that fee in Bilsham and Mellers was the right of Philip de Croft , who agreed to pay yearly to William at Denford 40s . during William's life.22 In the ensuing year there was a suit between William Avenel , demandant , and Ralph de Montibus , tenant , touching 12 virgates in Bilsham , in settlement of which it was agreed that Ralph should grant to William 4 virgates in Mellers and Kinrede ford and 5 acres of wood called ´ Avenel Sokene , ' and that William should remit his claim to the surplus.23 


 In 1236 William Avenel ( of Bicknor ) died possessing lands in Gloucestershire within the bailiwick of the Constable of St. Briavel and leaving an heir who was under age . " 


 24 


 The Chronicle of Peterborough shows that another William 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 67] ===
 
 
 BILSHAM 51 


 
 
 Avenel was a tenant of the abbot of Peterborough in Irthling borough temp . Henry II , and that his estates passed to the Bassets of Ryston.25 


 In 1242-3 Philip de Croft and Henry de Preston each held 1 fee in Bilsham of the honor of Arundel.26 In 1243 the service of John de Montibus of fee was assigned to the dower of Isabel countess of to C40 Arundel , 27 and in the ensuing year the service of the same John and of William Avenel of fee in Bilsham was assigned to the pourparty of Robert de Tateshale.28 


 The cathedral church of Canterbury recovered possession of Slindon at some unknown date before the 13th century . In 1274 the then archbishop and Sir John Fitz - Alan , lord of Arundel , made an agreement touching the primate's claim of hunting in the whole forest of Arundel and Sir John's claim of hunting in the primate's wood of Slindon.29 


 In 1272 Richard Blathe of Madehurst , shepherd of William de Bodiketon , while keeping his lord's sheepfold of Weppehurst by night , shouted at three women thieves who were milking his lord's ewes and pulling their wool ; one of the women attacked him and he slew her in self - defence , for which he was pardoned as he did it in self - defence and to save his lord's goods.30 


 In 1303 William de Bulsham and Hugh de Croftes each held fee in Bilsham of Robert de Tateshale II , ³¹ and in 1308 they held the same tenements of the heirs of Robert de Tateshale III , who died in 1306 under age.32 In 1309 these tenements were respectively assigned to the pourparty of Joan de Driby and to that of John de Orreby and Isabel his wife.33 In 1316 William de Bulesham and 


 Andrew de Medested were lords of Bilsham.34 


 
 
 Ad 


 
 
 36 


 In 1339 William de Bulsham held fee in Bilsham of William de Bernake and Alice his wife.35 He died in 1345 so seised holding of Thomas de Cayly for fee ; John his son was aged 28 years . This John died without issue in 1349 holding the manor of Bilsham as above ; by force of a settlement made by his father in 1344 this estate devolved on Roger brother of John , then aged 30 and more.37 


 
 
 1. Bk . of Fees , 70. 2. Davis , Regesta , n . 145. Cf. Round , Cal . of Docs . 


 France , nos . 716 , 724 , 1203. 3. Pipe R. 20 Henry I , 66. 4. Bruton Chartul . ( Somerset Rec . Soc . ) , n . 338. 5. Mon. Anglic . vi . 1169 , n . 35 . 6. Round , Cal . of Docs . France , n . 859. 7. Red Bk . 201 . 8. Ibid . 319 , 322. 9. Ibid . 406. 10. Pipe R. 25 Hen . II , p . 77. 11. R. Cur . Regis . i . 78 , 94 ; Abbrev . Placit . 4b . 12. Suss . Feet of F. i . 3. 13. Pipe R. 15. Ibid . 22 Hen . II , 17. R. L. Claus . i . 344 ; Pat . R. 127 . 


 13 Hen . II , 142 , 144. 14. Ibid . 17 Hen . II , 85 . 


 43 , 128 . 


 16. R. Chart . 79b . 18. Excerpt . i . 109 . ( Pipe R. Soc . xiv . ) , 81 . 23. Ibid . 92. 24. Excerpt . i . 304 . 


 20. R. Cur . Reg . 22. Ibid . 91 . Cf. Pipe R. 26. Testa , 222 . 


 8 Hen . II , pp . 8-9 ; 11 Hen . II , p . 97 ; 27. Close R. 112 . 28. Ibid . 249 . 


 25. Op . cit . 148 , 173-4 . 15 Hen . II , p . 75 . 


 29. Cal . Chart . ii . 187. 30. Cal . Pat . 615. 31. Cal . Inquis . iv . 107. 32. Ibid . 260. 33. Cal . Close , 101 . 35. Cal . Inquis . viii . 164 . 


 36. Ibid . 421 . 


 34. Feud . Aids , v . 143 . 37. Cal . Inquis . ix . 142 . 


 
 
 19. R. L. Claus . i , 624 , 629 . 21. Suss . Feet of F. i . 43 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 68] ===
 
 
 52 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 XI . 


 
 
 Morin in 1086 held Chithurst ( Titeherste , ' 4 hides ) , a manor in the hundred of Rotherbridge ( 1 hide ) , and 1 virgate in a place called Borha . ' 1 Morin was associated with Hugh as a tenant at Ratton and elsewhere of the count of Mortain . 


 
 
 Robert son of Morin gave to Lewes priory tithes of Meslirs ( ? Madehurst , n . 10 ) .2 In the time of Henry I or Stephen a feodary of the honor of Arundel ( as returned in 1166 or 1168 ) recorded this tenement : Morin de Chitehurst j militem . ' 


 ، 


 
 
 4 


 Land in Chithurst comprised part of the tenement held by the family of Hose or Husee . See no . 26. In 1263 Lucia de Norton and Gilbert de Chellesfeud distrained Henry de Tyreserchs to do suit to their court of Norton and Litlington ( Littleton Farm , near Up Waltham ? ) in respect of I hide in Burchechs ' and Chithurst ( Thichesherst ' ) , by default of Henry Giffard , the mesne tenant.5 Possibly Lucy de Norton was the Lucy , daughter of Reginald , party to a fine of land in Pepering , near Burpham , in 1248 , and daughter of Reginald de Clifton , who made an agree ment in 1206 touching lands in Pepering , Litlington ' and Norton . " In 1305 William le Vesseler held the advowson of the church of Chithurst and land there , and in 1316 John le Vassylyr was lord of Chithurst.9 


 6 


 8 


 
 
 3. Red Bk . 201 . 


 France , p . 510 . modern Sutton . 5. Suss . Feet of F. ii . 54 . 25. Cf. Nos . 458 and 987 . 8. Ibid . 184 . 


 1. In Avisford hundred . Possibly Barnham . 2. Round , Cal . of Docs . 4. This may be involved in the 6. Ibid . i . 120. 7. Ibid . 9. Feud . Aids , v . 141 . 


 
 
 XII . 


 
 
 Robert son of Tetbald held Treyford in 1086 of earl Roger . Cudlow or Codelawe was perhaps involved in Middleton , in Avis ford hundred , which ‘ William ' ( no . 14 ) held of earl Roger . The greater part of this parish has been overwhelmed by the sea . 


 
 
 In 1088 Pain de Vilers attested a charter of duke Robert.¹ In 1094 he attested the charter of Roger the Poitevin count founding the priory of Lancaster.2 He or another of the name was living at the date of the Lindsey survey ( 1115-18 ) . From the Great Inquest of Service made in Lancashire in 1212 we learn that Pain de Vilers , primus feodatus , gave Treyford to his ( third ) son Alan.3 The same important return tells of the feoffments made to Pain's sons William and Thomas , and to Vivian Gernet , husband of his daughter Emma.³ A. de Vilers notified to all the barons & c . of the honor of Arundel that he had granted to the monks of Lewes 5s . in alms from ' Treferd , ' viz . 2s . from Walter of the mill and 3s . from Ralph his son . The witnesses were Hugh de Kauneto , Hugh Haranges and Richard de Tuamchereche . " 


 In the time of Henry I , or Stephen , one fee in Treyford was held of the honor of Arundel.5 The name of the tenant is not recorded , but it was possibly the Robert de Vilers who attested a Lancashire grant made by Stephen , count of Boulogne and 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 69] ===
 
 
 TREYFORD AND CUDLOW 53 


 
 
 Mortain , during the period 1123-1135.6 The inquest of 1212 records that Robert de Vilers was then the tenant of Treyford . " In the time of Richard I there was a dispute between Pain de Vilers of Kinalton , Notts . , son of Alan , son of William , second son of Pain I , touching the lands in Owthorpe and Calverton , Notts . , and Much Hoole , Lancs . , late of Thomas de Vilers ( fourth ) son of Pain I. The agreement made in the court of William le Boteler , by precept of John count of Mortain , between the disputants , is preserved among the ancient deeds of the Chancery . In 1194 Robert de Vilers made an agreement with the bishop of Chichester touching land in Treyford , Suss.9 In I2o8 Robert de Vilers , seneschal of the earl of Arundel , being in the king's service in Sussex , a mandate was issued to the sheriff of Lancaster not to put the said Robert in default in case he failed to answer the sheriff's summons.10 In 1217 a writ was issued for restoration of the goods of Robert de Vilers of Nottinghamshire , who was also a tenant of the earl of Chester , in case his goods had been seized by reason of the late war.11 Robert died in or shortly before 1223,12 and in 1229 Robert his son acknowledged that lands in Drayton and Shopwyke , Suss . , were the right of Reyner , prior of Tortington.13 In 1235 his lands were to be extended for the adjustment of a debt due to a certain Jew.14 This obligation , or the death of Robert de Vilers II , 15 may explain the tenure in 1242-3 by Master Alexander le Seculer of 2 fees in Treyford and Cudlow under the earl of Arundel.16 In 1243 the service of 2 fees held by Robert son of Robert de Vilers was assigned to the dower of Isabel , countess of Arundel , ¹7 and in the ensuing year the same service , namely of Robert de Vilers of 2 fees in Cudlow and Treyford , was assigned to the pourparty of John Fitz - Alan.18 In 1256 Robert de Vilers of Sussex obtained a grant of free warren in his manor of Treyford , 19 and was exempted from serving on juries and the like.20 He appears to have sold Much Hoole , Lancs . , in 1260.21 


 
 
 In 1265 the half manor of Codelawe was seized by the earl of Gloucester.22 In 1268 there was a dispute between Simon le Draper of Winchester and Peter de Montfort and Luke de Viene touching the occupation of the manor of Codelawe , Suss . , whereupon inquiry was to be made whether Simon or Luke had the better right.23 In 1272 Luke de Puninges acknowledged by fine that the manor of Cudlow was the right of Luke de Vyane and Mary his wife , 24 who obtained a similar recognition in 1280 from Geoffrey Fresteng.25 It was found in 1279 that Luke de Viene and his ancestors had enjoyed wreck of the sea in Cudlow from time out of mind.26 Luke was still lord in 1281.27 


 
 
 Robert de Vilers III made a settlement of the manor of Treyford in 1279 on Nicholas de Vilers , with successive remainders to Nicholas's brothers , John , Richard and William , and to Lawrence Basset and Hawise his wife.28 Robert de Vilers , son of Robert de Vilers , put in his claim to the premises.29 In 1282 a writ was issued to protect Robert de Vilers from being harassed for taking the king's bucks in the forest of Southampton.30 In 1287 Nicholas de Vilers made a recognizance of a debt in Sussex . 31 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 70] ===
 
 
 54 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 In 1316 , possibly during the minority of the heir , Ralph de Estdene was lord of Treyford , and Peter de Vienne ( Vyne ' ) lord of Cudlow.32 In 1327 Nicholas de Vilers , with many others , was indicted of entering the park of William la Zousche at Treve , Suss.33 In 1330 Nicholas held 1 fee in Treyford , and Luke de Vyenne I fee in Cudlow , of Edmund earl of Kent.34 In 1336 the grant of free warren , made in 1256 , was renewed and confirmed to Nicholas de Vilers and Robert his son . 35 


 
 
 1. Round , Cal . of Docs . France , p . 257 . 2. Farrer , Lancs . Pipe R. From the eldest son Matthew descended the Botelers 


 290. 3. Testa , 402 . of Warrington , Lancs . See V. C. H. Lancs . i . 338. 4. Cott . MS . Vesp . F. XV . f . 135. 5. Red Bk . 201. 6. Farrer , Lancs . Pipe R. 427. 7. Testa , 402. 8. Cat . of Anct . D. vol . vi . C. 5495 . 9. R. Cur . Regis , i . 12-13 ; 12. Ex 15. A 


 11. Ibid . 3156 . 


 14. Close R. 217 . 


 Abbrev . Placit . 4b . 10. R. L. Claus . i . 108 . .cerpt . i . 105. 13. Suss . Feet of F. i . 59 . Robert de Vilers was slain in 1237 near Hastings by two thieves ; Close R. 453. In 1238 Mary late the wife of Robert de Vilers was demanding dower in Much Hoole , Lancs .; Curia Regis R. 118 , m . 2. 16. Testa , 222 . 17. Close R. 112 . 19. Cal . Chart . i . 453. 20. Cal . Pat . 530 . 21. Lancs . Feet of F. i . 132. 22. Cal . of Misc . Ing . i . 275 . 23. Abbrev . Placit . 176. 24. Suss . Feet of F. ii . 83 . 26. Plac . de quo war . 755. 27. Abbrev . Plac . 201. 28. Suss . Feet of F. ii . 109. 29. Ibid . 30. Cal . Close R. 148. 31. Ibid . 481. 32. Feud . Aids , v . 141 , 143. 33. Cal . Pat . R. 348. 34. Cal . Inquis . vii . 230 . 


 18. Ibid . 250 . 


 25. Ibid . 118 . 


 35. Cal . 


 Chart . iv . 353 . 


 
 
 XIII . 


 In 1086 Walter held of earl Roger Sunworth ( in Buriton ) , Hants , as 3 hides . 


 
 
 In the time of Stephen one fee in Sunworth was held of William earl of Arundel.¹ In 1166 Othuer de Sunewrthe held 2 fees of Margaret de Bohun.2 In 1194 , again 2 years later , 3 and again in 1201 4 William de Soneworde was the tenant of fee in Hampshire , and in 1207 he was one of the sureties of Roger son of Adam , sheriff of Hants.5 As William son of Otewy ( Otuer ) de Sunworth he made several gifts of land and pasture in Sunworth to Dureford priory to release himself from Jewry ; in one of his charters his wife Joan , his heir Ralph and sons Simon and Robert are named . “ Ralph as son and heir of this William confirmed these gifts and a grant made to William de Chalton , naming ' Othewy ' his grand father . William earl of Sussex III also confirmed William de Sunworth's gifts to the priory in places called the Holt and Cley.8 Adam son of Robert de Sonneworth was another benefactor.9 


 
 
 Ralph de Suneworth held 1 fee of ancient feoffment in Sun worth in 1242-3 of the earl of Arundel , 10 and in 1243 his service for that tenement was assigned to the dower of the countess of Arundel.¹¹ In the following year it was assigned to the pourparty of Roger de Someri and Nicholaa his wife.12 In 1246 Ralph settled on Thomas de Sunworth his son and heir a third part of 3 carucates in Sunworth.13 In 1252 the abbot of Dureford obtained a grant of free warren in his manor of Sunworth.14 


 
 
 Joan de Sonneworth , daughter of Ralph de Sonneworth , con firmed to the priory of Dureford all her land in Sunworth , with its 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 71] ===
 
 
 SUNWORTH - HALNAKER 55 


 
 
 services , which formerly belonged to her father ; the canons were to render to her and her heirs the service of one knight.15 


 
 
 In 1256 William Finamur and Joan his wife granted their manor of Sunworth to William de Clare , brother of Richard de Clare , earl of Gloucester and Hertford , to hold of them and Joan's heirs for I fee.16 In 1257 William de Clare had a grant of free warren in Walsingham , Norf . , and Sunworth , Hants . , 17 and before his death in 1259 granted land and rent here to Dureford abbey.18 Richard earl of Gloucester succeeded as brother and heir and on his decease in 1262 Gilbert his son succeeded . He granted the manor to Roger Loveday , 19 who released it in 1267 to the abbot and convent of Dureford under certain conditions.20 See V. C. Hist . of Hants.iii . 91. The estate is now represented by Sunwood Farm , which belongs to the Ditcham estate . 


 2. Ibid . 294 . 


 3. Ibid . 91 , 99 . 


 4. R. Cancel . 


 1. Red Bk . 201 . 245 . 


 5. R. de Fin . 449. 6. Chartul . of Dureford , Vesp . E. xxiii . 78 ; cited in V. C. H. Hants . iii . 91 n . 7. Vesp . E. xxiii . f . 80 , 81 . f . 8id . 9. Ibid . f . 82. 10. Testa , 2316. 11. Close R. 112 . 13. Feet of F. , Hants . 30 Hen . III . 14. Cal . Chart . 15. Vesp . E. xxiii . f . 86d . 16. Feet of F. , Hants . 40 Hen . III . Chart . R. i . 475 . 18. Chartul . f . 8o . 19. Ibid . f . 84. 20. Feet of F. , Hants . 52 Hen . III . 


 8. Ibid . 12. Ibid . R. i . 391 . 17. Cal . 


 252 . 


 
 
 XIV . 


 In the hundred of Box , Suss . , in 1086 William held of earl Roger in Halnaker 9 hides ; in Boxgrove 6 hides , of which Humphrey held 3 hides and I virgate , Nigel I hide and I virgate , Williamhide and the clerks of the church I hide ; in East Hamp nett 7 hides , which Nigel held of William ; in West Hampnett 9 hides , of which William held 1 hide , Restold 1 hide , Richard 3 virgates , Godfrey 1 virgate ; in Strettington 10 hides ; in an un named place 3 hides , of which Richard held 2 hides and Turgis 1 hide ; in another unnamed place I hide assessed as part of Halnaker . In the hundred of Bury William held of earl Roger in Wal berton II hides and 2 virgates , of which Rolland held 1 hide less I virgate and Acard the priest 2 virgates as a prebend ; in Barnham 4 hides ; in Middleton 5 hides and 2 virgates , of which 3 Frenchmen held 4 hides and 5 virgates ; in an unnamed place 3 hides and in another unnamed place hide and 2 virgates . 


 In Manhood hundred William held of earl Roger in Birdham 3 hides which Nigel held of him , but Anschetil held of the manor I hide . 


 
 
 In Stockbridge hundred William held of earl Roger in Hunston 4 hides . 


 
 
 In Easeborne hundred William held of earl Roger in Todham 4 hides , which Nigel held . 


 In Westbourne hundred Geoffrey held of earl Roger in Compton 10 hides . 


 
 
 In Manhood hundred Warin held of earl Roger in Itchenor I hide ; it belonged T.R.E. to bishop Osbern's church of Bosham . In the hundred of Wotton ( recte Middle Woking ) , Surr . , Geoffrey held of earl Roger I hide which belonged to Compton , Suss . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 72] ===
 
 
 56 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 In the hundred of Stoneleigh , Warws . , William held of earl Roger in Bilton 5 hides less I virgate . 


 ( 


 The identity of William ' has not been discovered . It has been stated that William son of Reiner gave tithes of Middleton , Sussex , to the priory of Lewes , ¹ but this is a mistake . The donor was William son of Ranulf de Warenne and the place was Middle ton in Freebridge Hundred , Norf . ( See Warenne , n . 16. ) 


 Possibly William was William de Anstervill , who held of earl Roger in 1086 in South Avon ( D. B. Avere ) , Hants . , I hide.2 The land became a royal serjeanty.3 Nevertheless the tenement can be traced to the possession of St. John of Halnaker and Basing , confirming this surmise . Hugh de Port of Basing also held land in Avon in 1086 , which ultimately descended to St. John , so that the two tenements became more or less feudally intermixed . In 1336 land in Avon was parcel of the honor of Basing . 


 
 
 The archives of the abbey of Lessay show that Henry I gave the honor of Halnaker to Robert de Hai , son of Ranulf the seneschal of Robert count of Mortain , nephew of Eudes the sewer of William I , and that in the year 1105 Robert de Hai , with the consent of his wife ( Muriel , sister of Picot son of Colswain ) , 5 gave to that abbey these churches of the fee of Halnaker : St. Mary of Boxgrove , St. Peter of ( West ) Hampnett , St. Leger of Hunston , those of Birdham and Walburton , St. Mary of Barnham , St. Katherine on the river Thames , St. George of Bilton ( Warws . ) , and tithe of Todham.6 


 
 
 In 1123 Robert de Hai , by the desire of Muriel his wife and his sons Richard and Ralph , gave to the abbey of Lessay the churches of Brattleby and Fillingham with other churches in Lincolnshire ? ( formerly of the fee of Picot son of Colswain ) . Three years later Henry I confirmed to Lessay , among other gifts , what Robert de Hai , grandson of Richard ( called Turstin Haldup and nephew of Eudes , son of the said Richard , founders of the said abbey ) , had given of his manors in England , namely Brattleby , & c . , which he had received with Muriel his wife.9 Robert de Hai , at the request of his wife Muriel , gave the church of Sutton , Norf . , to Castle Acre priory , his sons Richard and Ralph witnessing it.10 At a later time Richard de Hai confirmed his father's gift , Ralph de Hai , his nepos , attesting.11 Richard had a daughter Nicholaa who married ( 1 ) William son of Erneis and ( 2 ) Gerard de Camvile , by whom she had a son Thomas de Camvile.12 


 
 
 In 1115 Rainald de Aureavalle , or d'Orival , made a gift to Lessay which was attested by ( among others ) Walter Hingan , the then tenant of Bilton , Warws.13 It has been shown from evidences in the chartulary of Boxgrove Priory that Cecily daughter of Robert de Hai married Roger de St. John and that Muriel their daughter married Reginald d'Orival.14 


 
 
 Roger de St. John gave before 1121 the church of Compton , Surrey , to the priory of Lewes.15 The descent of the families of St. John and of Port has been elaborated by Mr. Round in The Genealogist , N.S. xvi . 1-13 . In 1130 ( William ? ) the son of Roger de St. John accounted for 80 marks for the relief of his father's land on the honor of Arundel.16 He it was , no doubt , who held 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 73] ===
 
 
 HALNAKER 57 


 
 
 in the time of Stephen 12 fees in Halnaker of William earl of Arundel.17 In 1165 he paid 15s . 3d . de exercitu , ' 18 namely in respect of the charges of a serjeant in the army of Wales . In 1171 out of the issues of Chichester £ 10 was paid to the same William for repairs to Arundel Castle.19 He was living in 1187 , when £ 12 due from 12 fees for the scutage of Galloway was pardoned to William de St. John.20 There appears to be no doubt as to this William being the same William de St. John who married Olive daughter of count Stephen of Brittany and widow of Henry de Fougères.21 Mr. Round cites a charter from the Boxgrove chartu lary of William de St. John and Robert his brother with Godeheld wife of William , in which there is mention of Robertus avus suus de Haia et pater suus Rogerius de Sancto Johanne , ' which docu ment bears the date of 1187.22 This confirms to Boxgrove the churches given to Lessay in 1105. The two brothers also made further gifts so that 15 monks might be established at Box grove.23 Apparently William de St. John died before 1189 , in which year Adam de Port ( who had married Mabel de Orval ( de Aureavalle ) , daughter and heir of Reginald de Orval by his wife Muriel , sister of William de St. John ) owed £ 200 for fine of his land and of his wife's inheritance in Normandy and that king Richard might abate his anger against him and take his homage.24 Adam de Port , who had succeeded to the honor of Basing on the death of his father , John de Port , circa 1170 , thus inherited jure uxoris lands in Normandy , but not the honor of Halnaker , which probably went to Robert de St. John , the younger brother of William I , who survived until shortly before 1199 , in which year Roger de Montbegon of Hornby castle , Lancs . , gave 500 marks to have to wife Olive , late the wife of Robert de St. John , with her land and inheritance.25 In 1207 William de St. John II granted the manor of Walberton to Roger and Olive for Olive's lifetime.26 


 
 
 27 


 Halnaker must have passed into the possession of William de St. John II in 1199 , when there was a plea wherein Roger de Craft complained that Thomas de Argentein had imprisoned his man whom he had sent to essoin him ( Roger ) in the court of William de St. John at Halnaker ( * Hanac ' ) . It appeared that Roger had essoigned himself an unreasonable number of times against his lord , who had impleaded him for detention of the service due for his land ; eventually Roger withdrew from his plea . " " Craft was the tenant of Bilton , as will be shown below . Adam de Port was living on 8 June , 1213,28 but was dead on 13 July following , when William de St. John , his son , proffered 500 marks to have his father's land.29 Mr. Round has drawn attention to the extraordinary coinci dences of the second wife of William de St. John I and the wife of his namesake , William de St. John II , being both named Gode heut , and of the first William's first wife and the wife of his younger brother Robert being both named Olive.30 In 1242-3 Richard de Lucy and Godeheut de St. John his wife held the manor of West Shefford , Berks . , of the inheritance of Robert de St. John , being a member of the barony of Basing.31 See Oilli , n . 31 . 


 
 
 1 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 74] ===
 
 
 58 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 In 1230 Agatha daughter of William de St. John held a messuage and land in Hunston , Suss . , where the prior of Boxgrove also held . I virgate and William de St. John , her father , half the manor ; she was under age and in the wardship of James de Cicestre.32 


 In 1226 a commission was appointed to terminate disputes between William de St. John and William de Godivewud ( of Good wood ) his man touching arrears of the latter's accounts while he was bailiff of Halnaker.33 In 1234 William de St. John was pardoned a demand in respect of service which he had failed to perform in the parts of Wales in respect of a fee ( in Newbery by Dartford , Kent ? ) held of the archbishopric of Canterbury ; and William de Ros , who had married William's daughter , was pardoned for the same default in respect of the same fee.34 See Eudes the Sewer , n . 12 . 


 
 
 William de St. John gave several charters to Boxgrove , naming Adam de Port his father , Mabel his mother , and Godeude or Gode held his wife ; one of them is dated 1222.35 William , who had sons Robert , Adam , and William , 36 died in or about 1241 , and in 1242-3 his son , Robert de St. John , held 12 fees in Halnaker of Hugh de Aubigny , earl of Arundel.37 In 1253 Robert obtained a grant of free warren in Warnford and Chawton , Hants . , Halnaker , Strettington , West Strettington , Goodwood ( Godyvewod ' ) , Wal berton and Barnham , Suss . , and ( West ) Shefford , Berks.38 The first 2 places and the last were members of the honor of Basing , the remainder belonged to the honor of Halnaker . His charter exempting the prior of Boxgrove's tenants from suit of court at Halnaker was exemplified in 1285.39 Robert de St. John was living in 1267 , but was lately deceased on 7 April , 1269.40 In the former year custody of the castle of Farnham was committed to Isabel countess of Arundel to keep as Robert de St. John had it.41 In the same year Robert , having resigned the custody of Porchester castle , it was committed to his son , John de St. John.4 


 42 


 The last - named held in 1275 of Robert de Mohaut 12 fees in Halnaker , Barnham , Walberton , Middleton , ( North ) Mundham , Hunston , Keynor , Birdham , Itchenor , Gunton , Tadham and Hampnet , Suss.43 He had licence to demise to two merchants of Florence for eight years from Easter , 1276 , his manor of Halnaker.44 In 1283 there was a commission to inquire of the recent enlarge ment of the old park of Halnaker and as to the fence of the park , which was so made that deer could enter but could not get out again , to the injury of the king's ward , Richard son of John Fitz Alan.45 In 1290 John demised to John de Mohaut for three years his manor of Middleton to secure repayment of 575 marks.46 He died in 1302 , holding of Sir Robert de Mohaut the manor of Hal naker for 4 fees , with Walberton , Barham and Wodecote ; John his son , aged 30 , was his heir.47 Alice his relict had dower in the manors of Chawton , Hants . and Walberton . " 


 48 


 
 
 It may be suggested that William de Favarches , one of the four knights who made recognition of the service of the fee of Arundel in 1166–70 ( ? ) , was tenant of land in Walberton , where in 1272 William de Favarches and Olive his wife recovered land and demised 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 75] ===
 
 
 BILTON 59 


 
 
 a moiety for certain lives.49 Geoffrey de Favarches is named in 1279 as mulcted for damage in the forest of the honor.50 


 John the son of Robert was lord of Halnaker in 1316,51 and as John de St. John of Basing died in 1329 , holding of the honor of Arundel the manor of Halnaker of Robert de Mohaut for 12 fees , of which the following fees were parcel : 


 
 
 William de St. George [ 1 ] fee in Todham and Le Potte . Richard Dummer I fee in Keynor and West Hampnett . Thomas de Badham fee in Hampnett le Moraunt . William de Hunstan fee in Hunston . 


 
 
 Henry de Hamptonette fee in West Hampnett . Heirs of Walter de Hamptonett fee in Hampnett . William de Chenny fee in Itchenor . Heirs of Robert de Sortell fee in Birdham . John de Argentem fee in Mundham . Heirs of Richard de Lyons fee Heirs of John de Mouun and fee John de Ayott and fee in Ayott . Heirs of Thomas de Senebech 


 } in Compton . 


 fee in Halnaker . 52 


 
 
 Hugh son and heir of John de St. John was aged nearly 19 at his father's death.53 In addition to the above fees and many belonging to the honor of Basing the heirs of George de Charneles held 1 fee in Bilton , Warws . ( Bulton in Donesmor ' ) .54 


 Hugh de St. John died in 1336 holding the manor of Halnaker with its members in Barnham and Birdham , the latter demised to William de Hunston knt . , 55 a park 2 leagues in circuit , 10 marks rent from the manor of Woodcote held for life by Geoffrey de Ledes by demise of Hugh's father , and the manors of Walberton and Middleton , as of the barony of Mohaut for 12 fees . The following knights ' fees were held of the manor of Halnaker : 


 
 
 Todham 


 Le Potte 


 
 
 Keynor West Hampnett / Hunston 


 Ynthrop West Hampnett 


 
 
 Compton Kipston 


 
 
 H Ha 


 
 
 grove ) Elbridge 


 
 
 I 


 
 
 I 


 
 
 Hal Hal Hal 


 
 
 ~ ~ ~ ~ 


 
 
 and 


 
 
 Late held by William de St. George , deceased , whose heir was in the king's wardship . Edward de St. John and Richard le Dummere . 


 
 
 Godfrey de Hunstane . 


 Roger de Hamptonette and John de Westerton . 


 
 
 The same Roger . 


 John de Lyons , who also held Henry de Mohun's tenements . Heirs of William de Hunstan , Henry Jenyver , William atte Howe . 


 
 
 Mundham 


 } 


 Godfrey de Hunstan . 


 Worth ( and Box- ( amortised ) Prior of Boxgrove . 


 1 and 1 


 John Eyot . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 76] ===
 
 
 60 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 Seabeach Crockerhill 


 Birdham Strettington 


 
 
 Brockhurst the Weald 


 
 
 West Hampnett ) Itchenor Avon , Hants . 


 
 
 바 아바타 


 
 
 10 


 
 
 10 


 
 
 10 


 
 
 in 10 


 
 
 I 


 174 


 
 
 Richard de Senebeche . Ralph atte More . 


 Robert de Bromore . 


 
 
 John Haket , Ralph de St. Owen and William atte Cleye ( n . 6 ) . Matilda de Brokhurst . 


 
 
 John Inge , knt . 


 William de Chenny . ( Barony of Basing . ) 


 
 
 Mirabel relict of Hugh married within 6 months of his decease Thomas de Aspale ; Edmund son and heir of Hugh was aged 4 years . 56 


 
 
 Edmund de St. John died in his minority at Calais , on 18 August , 1347 ; his sisters , Margaret , aged 18 , married to John de St. Philebert knt . , and Isabel , aged 14 , married to Henry de Burg hersh , were his next heirs.57 Burghersh died two years later , without issue of Isabel , who then married Luke de Ponynges . 58 Partition of the knights ' fees was made in 1349 between the two heirs , recorded in a document of considerable interest . The knight's fee in Bilton in Dunsmore , Warws . , was then held by Giles de Chauncels of the St. Philiberts . Halnaker was assigned to the Ponynges . 59 


 With the names of the tenants of the honor in 1329 and 1336 we may compare the names of certain benefactors to the priory of Boxgrove , whose gifts were confirmed by William de St. John Ĩ , probably about 1180-88 : 


 
 
 Geoffrey de Colevill gave tithe of Keynor . 


 Humphrey de Sartilla ( ? Sartellei , Sortell ) 1 virg . in ' Abbinton . 


 Gilbert de Sartilla 1 virg . in Hampnett . 


 Geoffrey de Sartilla I virg . in Birdham . Roger Hay a mill in Hunston . 


 
 
 Ellis de St. George I virg . next Woodcote and 2 a . meadow in Hunston . 


 
 
 Philip de Tresgoz 25 a . in Northestret . 


 Peter de Hampton tithe of his mill and I a . ( ? in Hampnett ) . Robert and Thomas de Campellis 4 a . in Seabeach ( Sene 


 beche ' ) . 


 
 
 It would appear that Nigel , William's tenant at Todham , Bird ham , Boxgrove and Hampnett , was ancestor of the Sartellei or Sortell family . The family were benefactors of Boxgrove , as appears above . From the chartulary the descent seems to have been Humphrey - son Gilbert ( who married Emma de Faleise ) -son Geoffrey.60 Humphrey de Sartilli was one of the 4 elder and more responsible knights of the honor of Arundel chosen by Henry II to make recognition of the knights ' service due from the honor for the army of Wales . 61 In 1205 the sheriff of Sussex was 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 77] ===
 
 
 BILTON - GRAFFHAM 61 


 
 
 directed to give the bishop of Chichester seisin of the land of Gilbert de Sartilli in Woodcote.62 He was probably a Norman . 


 As to Bilton , Warwicks . , William de St. John I bore witness that his grandfather Robert de Hay gave the church to Boxgrove , but the town remained a member of the honor of Halnaker . This honor his father Roger received with Robert's daughter and gave Bilton to his knight Walter son of Ingan ( or Ingald ) . Roger de Craft , son - in - law of Walter , who held the town of William de St. John , had promised to pay to the monks the annual pension of 75 . which they had had from Robert de Hay's time.63 Walter son of Hingam and Mary his wife ( who had half the vill as her dowry ) gave land in Bilton to Pipewell ; and Roger de Craft , as Walter's heir , confirmed the same according to a promise he had made when he married Beatrice the daughter of Walter , in presence of Ralph the priest , Geoffrey and Robert de Craft , his father and brother . William de St. John confirmed the gift , and Roger son of Roger de Craft added to it.64 


 
 
 1. V. C. H. Sussex , i . 431N . 2. V. C. H. Hants . i . 4776. 3. Testa , 2316. 4. Cal . Inquis . ix . 39. 5. Round , Cal . of Docs . France , intr . P. xlviii . In III Picot , his nephew Richard and niece Cecily obtained fraternity of the monastery of Spalding ; Mon. Anglic . iii . 218. 6. Round , Cal . of Docs . France , n . 921. 7. Ibid . n . 922. 8. Ibid . 9. Ibid . n . 923 . 10. Chartulary , Harl . MS . 2110 , f . 70. 11. Ibid . 12. Ibid . f . 71. 13. Round , Cal . of Docs . France , n . 924. 14. Round in The Genealogist , N.S. xvi . 4 ; Mon. Anglic . iv . 646. 15. Ibid . v . 14 ; Round , Anct . Charters ( Pipe R. Soc . ) , 13 ; Round , Calendar , p . 510. 16. Pipe R. 31 Hen . I , 43 . This entry is not under Hants . as Mr. Round states , but under ' Honor de Arundel . ' 17. Red Bk . 201. 18. Pipe R. 11 Hen . II , III . 19. Ibid . 17 Hen . II , 135 . 20. Pipe R. 33 Hen . II , p . III . 21. Mon. Angl . iv . 646b ; Round , Cal . of Docs . France , 281 ( 1162 ) , 305 ( 1174 ) . 22. Boxgrove Chartul . , f . 18 ; Round , The Genealogist , N.S. xvi . 4. 23. Round , Calendar , n . 928 ; Mon. Anglic . iv . 646 , nos . 7-8 . 24. Pipe R. I Ric . I , 199 . 25. R. de Oblat . 41 . Olive is named in Boxgrove Charters ( f . 30d ) . 26. Suss . Feet of F. n . 118 . 27. R. Cur . Reg . ii . 91 . 28. R. Lit. Claus . i . 135b . 29. R. de Fin . 477 . 30. He refers for proof to charters in the Boxgrove Chartul . , ff . 31 , 32d , 33d . 31. Bk . of Fees , 863 . 32. Bracton's Note Bk . , nos . 410 , 421 ; Close R. 342. 33. Pat . R. 81 . 34. Close R. 370-1 . 35. Cott . MS . Claud . A. vi . ff . 31-34 . 36. Ibid . f . 82. 37. Testa , 222. 38. Cal . Pat . R. 245 . 39. Ibid . 187. 40. Ibid . 380. 41. Ibid . 46. 42. Ibid . 67. 43. Cal . Inquis . ii . 84. 44. Cal . Pat . R. 206. 45. Ibid . 67 . 46. Ibid . 346 . 47. Cal . Inquis . iv . 61-2 . 48. Cal . Close R. 563 , 566. 49. Suss . Feet of F. ii . 74 . 50. Plac . de quo war . 7526 . 51. Feudal Aids , v . 141 . 52. Cal . Inquis . vii . 186 ; viii . 51. 53. Ibid . vii . 183 . 54. Ibid . 187 . 55. Cal . of Misc . Inq . ii . 373. 56. Cal . Inquis . viii . 50-1 . Cf. ibid . ix . 41 . 57. Cal . Inquis . ix . 37 ff . 58. Ibid . 243. 59. Cal . Close R. 19 . , 68–72 . 60. Cott . MS . Claud . A. vi . ff . 70d , 67 , 75d . 61. Red Bk . 200. 62. R. Lit. Claus . i . 19 ; R. de Fin . 244 . 63. Cott . MS . Claud . A. vì . f . 38 . 64. Cott . MS . Calig . A. xiii . ff . 61-64 ; see Dugdale , Warw . i . 26 . 


 
 
 XV . 


 Four Frenchmen in 1086 held Graffham , Suss . , of earl Roger , namely Robert ( and ) Ralph ( of him ) 4 hides , Rolland 2 hides and Ernald 2 hides . 


 
 
 Robert was Robert Fitz - Tetbald and Ralph was either Ralph de Langetot or Ralph de Chesney . This Ralph also held of Robert 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 78] ===
 
 
 62 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 in Buddington and Bignor on the honor of Petworth ( n . 1 ( 4 ) ) and had a haw in Arundel.¹ Another Ralph held of Robert Fitz Tetbald , who held of earl Roger , I hide in East Wittering , 4 hides . in Glatting and 3 hides in Stopham . See n . 1 ( 4 ) . This last named Ralph may have been ancestor of Saunzaver . 


 
 
 Ralph de Keidneto confirmed a donation made to William our clerk of Medlers ' by the monks of Lewes ; he was to have tithe of Ralph's demesne , paying 7s . a year to the nuns of Malling . Among the witnesses were Robert de Alta Ripa and William his son.2 Roger de Caisneto , who married Alice de Langetot , gave to Lewes priory tithes of his land of Graffham , the church of ' Meslirs ' ( this appears to be an early form of the name Madehurst ) , * and 3s . rent from Hugh de Caisneto.5 Hugh de Chaisnei and William his brother attested another Lewes charter . " William de Caisneto confirmed to Lewes the gift made by his father Roger ; Miles de Langetot attested the charter . " 


 3 


 
 
 ' 


 
 
 Hugh de Dive and William his son gave land and wood at Broadhurst ( in Horsted Keynes ) ; the tithes of Fulk of ' Meslirs and of Robert son of Morin of ' Meslirs were similarly given ; William de Dive gave of his fee at Eastbourne 17s . 4d . worth of land for the soul of Cecily , his mother ; Hugh de Dive gave land at Buryhurst ; William de Dive gave land at Brightford when he became a monk . These references to the family of Dive have no reference to this particular tenement . 


 10 


 The descent of this fee , which presents some interesting genealogical particulars , followed that of Wicken or Wyke Dyve , Northants . , which Roger ' held at the Survey of Robert de Oilgi ; 9 Roger ' also held 4 hides in Ducklington of the same Robert ; land in Deddington of the fee of the bishop of Bayeux , which was subsequently held by the tenants of this fee of the king in chief . Ralph de Langetot held land in Campton , Beds . , of Walter Giffard.11 


 
 
 . 


 
 
 8 


 
 
 The Rev. H. E. Salter has elaborated the descent of this branch of the Chesny family in an excursus in the Chartulary of Eynsham ( i . 411-23 ) . This will be dealt with under the honor of Wallingford . 


 
 
 Roger de Chesny , by Alice de Langetot his wife , had issue Hugh , whose name occurs in the Pipe Roll of 1130 , where it is shown that he obtained remission of danegeld in the counties of Oxford ( 22s . ) , Northampton ( 2s . ) and Bedford ( 6s . ) and was pardoned 30s . 4d . out of 15 marks penalty imposed on Totmore hundred ( which included Easeborne hundred , Suss . ) , in which Graffham lay , for a murder.12 Hugh married Dionisia de Bereford , whom Mr. Salter tentatively identifies as daughter of Walkelin Waard . She gave to Warin de Plaiz with Alice her daughter in marriage 1 hide in Barford , Oxon.13 In 1170 Ralph de Camera and Alfwin de Melliers accounted in Sussex for 20s . for a disseisin made after judgment ( super assisam ) , which sum was subsequently pardoned to William de Chesney.14 During the period 1160-76 William earl of Arundel notified his men of the honor of Arundel that he confirmed the agreement made by Ralph de Chesney with the abbot of Eynsham 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 79] ===
 
 
 GRAFFHAM 63 


 
 
 touching the said Ralph's land of Graffham and Mellers ; the witnesses including William ' Bloet ' the grantor's son , Humphrey de Millieres , Roger de Millieres , Richard Aguillun ( Aculeus ' ) , and Godfrey Aguillun.15 


 
 
 son . 


 24 


 I 


 Ralph de Chesny , son of Hugh and Dionisia , held in 1166 of the honor of Wallingford 2 fees.16 He left a daughter and heir , Lucy , who married Guy de Dive , a Norman , described in 1189 as the king's marshal , 17 bailiff of Gavray in 1195 18 and constable of Chinon in 1201-1205.19 On the loss of Normandy Guy had seisin of his lands in Oxfordshire , except his castle of Deddington which the king retained.20 He and Lucy his wife gave land in Deddington to the abbey of Stanley , Wilts . , 21 and they confirmed to dame Alice de Chesny , Lucy's aunt , the gift of land in Barford made to her by Dionisia de Chesny , Lucy's grandmother.22 Guy was deceased in July , 1214 , when his relict was given in marriage to Robert , brother of William de Harecurt.23 In 1224 custody of Guy's land and children was committed to John de Bassinge burn , whose daughter ( Margaret ) had been married to Guy's eldest The fine was 100 marks , but the grantor became liable for Guy's debts to the crown , amounting to £ 372 17s . 9d.2 The heir was William de Dive , whose guardian in 1229 obtained a writ to levy an aid from the tenants of the heir's lands to defray the Crown debts.25 In 1238 William de Dive was impleading Eva de Gray ( relict of Ralph Murdac , son of Beatrice , sister of Hugh de Chesny ) for the moiety of a third part of 2 fees in Deddington.26 In 1243 the service of 1 fee held by William de Dive in Merlirs ' and Graff ham , Suss . , was assigned to the dower of the countess of Arundel and in the following year to the pourparty of John Fitz - Alan.27 In 1248 Hugh Saunzaver acknowledged the right of William de Dive in the manor of Bignor , and the latter for 40 marks granted it to Hugh to hold by the service of 3 knights and doing 3 weeks ' suit to William's court of Woneworth ( in Graffham ) .28 This fine indicates that the fee of Bignor , Graffham and Buddington , held of the honor of Petworth , was held by Saunzaver of Chesny , the mesne tenant . This view is strengthened by the circumstance of Henry de Percy recording his claim on the above fine . William de Dive of Deddington was exhorted in 1258 to assist the king with a contri bution in aid of the Welsh expedition.29 He died in December , 1261 , holding the manor of Wyke Dyve , Northants . , of the Earl of Warwick for I fee.30 In February following the king took the homage of John de Dive , son and heir of William , who had livery of lands in Northamptonshire and Sussex.31 John was in arms against the king at Evesham , but had letters of protection dated 28 Nov. , 1265.32 Probably he died of wounds received in the battle , for on 30 January following Sibyl , late wife of John de Dyve , the king's enemy , out of his lands in Deddington , Ducklington and Wyke Dyve , lately committed to Osbert Giffard , had by the king's clemency the manor and park of Ducklington.33 In 1268 Osbert Giffard had a grant of the wardship of John's land and heirs , 34 and in 1272 an extent was made , which showed that he had held the manor of Woneworth in Graffham of the earl of Arundel for 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 80] ===
 
 
 64 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 I fee , the hall and lands of Wyke Dyve of Sir Hugh de Plecy , of whom he also held the manor of Ducklington by the service of I fee , and the manor of Deddington , held of the king in chief by the service of a third part of 2 fees ; Henry his son was then aged 21 or 22 years.35 Henry died in 1277 , having enfeoffed Dame Edelina Corbet of the manor of Wyke Dyve , then held of Sir Hugh de Plessy for fee ; and holding the old castle of Deddington with the members of the king in chief for 1 fee ; John his son was aged 4 years.36 Wardship of the land and heir was granted to queen Eleanor , but the marriage of the heir and wardship of the land of Deddington was later given to Alice , late wife of the said Henry.37 She died in 1282 , having demised the manor of Barford , Oxon . , to Richard de Seyton , then deceased.38 In 1295 John son and heir of Henry Dyve did homage and obtained livery of his lands.39 In 1292 he had obtained a charter of free warren in Deddington and Ducklington , Oxon . , and in Graffham , Suss.40 He died in December , 1310 , holding the manor of Ducklington of Hugh son . and heir of Hugh de Plecy , a minor , for 2 fees , and a third part of the manor of Deddington , including a decayed castle , held of the king in chief for a third of 2 fees ; Henry his son was aged 22 years.41 This Henry died in 1327 holding Wouneworth manor in Graffham of the earl of Arundel for fee ( sic ) , the manor of Ducklington and a third part of the manor of Deddington ; also lands which others held of him in Little Minster , Barford St. Michael and Little Barford , Oxon .; John his son was aged 7 years . 42 In 1330 the said heir held of Edmund earl of Kent 1 fee in Graffham and Midhurst , Suss.43 For some account of this family see Baker , Hist . of Northants . , ii . 254. There were several other families of the name , having no connexion with this line , viz . Dive of Hinxton , Cambs . , and Corby , Lincs . , tenants of the honor of Bourn and the bishop of Lincoln ; Dive of Brampton , Northants .; and Dive of Thundridge , Herts . , and Balderton , Notts . 


 
 
 13. Cal . of 15. Salter , 


 1. V. C. H. Suss . i . 421. 2. Lewes Chartulary , Vesp . F. xv . f . 133d . 3. Anct . Charters ( Pipe R. Soc . ) , 12. 4. Meslirs , Merlirs may , however , be a slurred sounding of Missel - hurst or Merle - hurst . 5. Round , Calendar , 510 . 6. Lewes Chartul . , Vesp . E. xv . f . 135. 7. Ibid . 8. Round , Calendar , 510 - II . 9. V. C. H. Northants , i . 334b . 10. Dom . Bk . i . 158b . 11. V. C. H. Beds . i . 232. 12. Pipe R. 31 Hen . I , pass . Anct . Deeds , iv . A. 7056. 14. Pipe R. 16 Hen . II , 137 . Chartul . of Eynsham , n . 86 . 16. Red Bk . 309. 17. Cal . Chart . R. i . 324 . 18. Stapleton , Norman Excheq . ii . lxviii . 19. R. Norman . 36 ; R. Chart . 103 . 20. R. Lit. Claus . i . 7 . 21. Mon. Anglic . v . 565. 22. Cal . of Anct . D. iv . A. 7056. Cf. Abbrev . 23. R. Lit. Claus . i . 168 . 24. Excerpt . e R. Fin . i . 115 . 25. Pat . R. 271 . 26. Close R. 137 . 27. Close R. 112 , 250. 28. Suss . Feet of F. i . n . 460. 29. Cal . Pat . R. 600. 30. Cal . Inquis . i . 299. 31. Excerpt . e R. Fin . ii . 364 , 366 , 587 . 32. Cal . Pat . 513 . 33. Ibid . 541 . 34. Ibid . 247 . 35. Cal . Inquis . i . 262. 36. Ibid . ii . 139 . 37. Cal . Fine R. i . 109 , III . 39. Cal . Close R. 415 . 40. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 415 . V. 145 . 42. Ibid . vii . 10. 43. Ibid . 230 . 


 Placit . 92 . 


 
 
 38. Ibid . 175 . 41. Cal . Inquis . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 81] ===
 
 
 HAMBLEDON - UP MARDEN , BOSHAM 65 


 
 
 XVI . 


 
 
 At the Survey of Hampshire William de Percy held 1 hide in Hambledon which he had acquired in marriage with his wife ( Emma de Port ) ; and Edward held of earl Roger I hide in Hambledon in the hundred of East Meon or Meon Stoke , Hants.¹ 


 
 
 In the time of Stephen Pantulf held 1 fee of William , earl of Arundel.2 In 1183 ' Hameledon ' of William Pantulf was amerced half a mark.³ Possibly William Pantulf held it through Eleanor , eldest daughter of Joscelin the castellan . See no . I. Some years earlier , but probably after 1174 , Joscelin , brother of queen Adelaide , gave to Eleanor his eldest daughter Hambledon with the mills of Winchester and as much of Heyshott , near Petworth , as would make £ 15 yearly value , and to Alice his younger daughter £ 10 worth of land in Heyshott.4 This grant was confirmed by Henry II.5 At a later date Henry de Percy , the donor's eldest son , who died in 1196 , gave his demesne in Hambledon and Denmead with his mills and burgages in Winchester to the canons of St. Lo of Rouen . “ 


 
 
 In the year 1200 king John confirmed to the cathedral church of Winchester inter alia Hambledon . ? 


 
 
 In the 13th century the Percies of Petworth were holding a knight's fee in Hambledon of the St. Johns , as of their honor of Basing . See V. C. H. Hants . iii . 239 . 


 8 


 
 
 ' 


 
 
 1. Dom . Bk . 44b , 46b . 2. Red Bk . 201 . 4. Percy Chartul . ( Surtees Soc . ) , 385 . 


 7. R. Chart . 32. 8. Red Bk . 206 ; Bk . of Fees , 695 . 


 
 
 3. Pipe R. 29 Hen . II , 145 . 5. Ibid . 387 . 6. Ibid . 411 . 


 
 
 XVII . 


 Engeler held of earl Roger in 1086 3 hides in Up Marden ; and of the king 2 hides in Bosham ; Ivo held of earl Roger 9 hides in Mid Lavant ( ‘ Loventone ' ) and 5 hides in Racton ; the earl himself held Stoughton , and Trotton ( ? including land in Midhurst , Wen ham , Dumpford , and Didling ) , and Lyminster ( ? including land in Ford , Yllesham , ' Rustington , Climping , Poling , and West Preston ) . The vill of Easebourne was not mentioned in the Survey . 


 
 
 1 


 Savary son of Cana gave to the priory of Lewes the churches of Stoughton and Racton and the chapel of Marden . The fuller deed in the Lewes Chartulary records the assent of Muriel his wife and his firstborn Ralph and other sons , and adds the church of 


 Louentune ' ( Barlavington ) and all the ' cerescot . ' 2 Savary also gave , jointly with Muriel his wife , to St. Martin of Sées before 1108 the church of Isemburn ' ( Easebourne , near Midhurst ) , his sons Ralph and Savary , and Ingelger the man of Richard de Merei , attesting the gift.3 For references to Engelger de Bohun , who possibly married a daughter of Richard de Meri , see Stapleton , Observations on the Norman Exchequer , ii . p . xxvi . 


 
 
 In the time of Stephen Savary held 3 fees of William earl of Arundel . His heir Ralph son of Savary and Gernegan de Palinges and Ralph son of the said Gernegan gave to the Hospitallers of 


 
 
 III . F 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 82] ===
 
 
 66 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 6 


 1 


 St. John land in Poling.5 In 1157 Savary son of Savary and Geldwin son of Savary each owed 100 marks for their land , which had been the subject of one agreement , apparently after the death of their brother Ralph . A Gildewin son of Sanzaver ' occurs about the same time . " In 1160 Geldwin was pardoned 50 marks of his said fine . Stapleton has preserved a record of this agree ment , which was confirmed by Henry II , in 1158,9 according to Mr. Eyton . To Geldwin or Goldewin son of Savary were by it to remain the manor of Ease borne with Midhurst , the vill of Rusting ton , his portion of Prestebrok , ' a moiety of the wood of Strodewic , ' the fee of Ralph de St. George in Trotton , hide of the land of ' Liperinges , ' the fee of Gernagod in Poling and Horemere , the fee of Richard de St. George of the woodland between the New Bridge and Lacneppe , the fee of Newick and Salscombe , the burgesses whom his father Savary had in Chichester temp . Henry I , 20 librates of land given to his brother Ralph son of Savary by William earl of Arundel , namely the fee of Ralph de St. George of Didling and of Richard de St. George of Dumpford , land of the manor of Harting and of the manor of Burne , which William de Chesny , Gernagod , Richard Ruffus and Thomas de Asevill then held , to hold all these tenements as Ralph son of Savary held them at his death.10 Savary son of Savary , who is described as heir to Engelger de Bohun , died without issue , apparently before 1168 , his heir being his brother Geldwin . 


 
 
 6 


 Geldwin son of Savary , by charter attested by Estrangia his wife , confirmed to the monks of Boxgrove the mill of Butheswell , which William de Chesny had given to them.11 In 1168 he accounted for I mark for scutage on one fee , which the earl of Arundel claimed against him , although Geldwin denied the service.12 His son Franco de Bohun succeeded , before 1186 , in which year the sheriff of Sussex accounted for £ 14 11s . 6d . of the farm of ' Middeherst ' que fuit Franconis and 67s . 2d . for corn of the same vill , 20s . 5d . of the farm of Rustincton ' land of the same Franco and 378. 3d . of the issues of the same.13 This temporary forfeiture was the result of Henry's rancour against Franco , of which mention occurs below . In 1187 Esseburn ' and ' Midherst ' late of Franco yielded £ 19 9s . 4d . and ' Rustinton ' 60s . He obtained a royal charter dated on the last day of March , 1 Richard I ( 1190 ) , at Gorron , confirming to him Ford , Climping , Rustington , Preston and ( Mid ) Lavant , as his inheritance , and Bohun ( in Normandy ) with its liberties and free customs , to hold by hereditary right , as beneficially as Savary son of Savary , heir of Ennilger de Bohun , held them at his death . Further the king willed that the fine which Ralph de Arden alleged ( dicit ) as having been made with him by Franco ( de Bohun ) at Caen , before Henry the king's father , should not be hurtful to Franco or his heirs , because we know that that deed was against reason and owing to the indignation of the said Henry our father , which he had against Franco and his ( men ) , and not of right ( ex jure ) . ' With clause quare volumus that Franco and his heirs should hold by hereditary right the aforesaid lands and tenements , and furthermore Midhurst and Easebourne 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 83] ===
 
 
 UP MARDEN , BOSHAM 67 


 
 
 and all the lands of Savary son of Cana , Ralph his son and Savary son of Savary in Normandy and England , temp . Henry I and Henry II.14 


 
 
 Franco died before 1196 , in which year Engeler son of Franco de Bohun accounted for 60s . for scutage in Sussex.15 Engeler made an agreement before King Richard at Le Vaudreuil ( Eure ) , on Wednesday before Palm Sunday , 1199 , by the testimony of archbishop Hubert , Savary bishop of Bath , William Marshal , count Robert of Sens , William de Humez constable of Normandy , Ralph Tessun , Robert de Harewecurt , Roger de Tony , John de Preaux , Peter de Preaux , Fulk Paynel , William de Mortemer , Robert de Hai and the king's barons , sealed in form of a cyrograph by both parties , viz . between Ralph de Ardern , plaintiff , and Eruinger de Boun , tenant , respecting the whole honor of Boun , Ford , Climping , the moiety of Yllesham , ' Preston ( Presinton ' ) , Lavant , £ 10 worth of land in Rustington , the service of Ralph Sanzaver and Ilbert for land in Racton and the service of Ralph Kenion ; whereby Eruinger released to Ralph and his heirs the manor of Ford , Climping , a moiety of the vill of Yllesham , the service of Ralph Sanzaver and Ilbert de Rakinton for their tenants of Racton and the service of Ralph Kenion , and £ 10 worth of land in Lavant ; moreover the whole of the remainder of the inheritance late of Ralph son of Savary or Eruinger de Boun in Normandy and England was to remain to Eruinger and his heirs.16 In 1207 the amercement of Engelger de Bohun in a plea against Richard de Chesny touching land in Rogate and Elham , Suss . , was pardoned . In 1212 Thomas de Ardern , son of Ralph de Ardern , was again at suit with Engelger about the inheritance , 18 ‹ Juinger de Boun proffering 100 marks for a writ of mort d'ancestor against Thomas touching I fee in Ford , and against the prior of Sholebred touching fee in Lavant.19 Later in the year Thomas de Ardern acknowledged that I fee in Ford and fee , except 7 virgates , in Lavant were the right of Eruinger , who granted to Thomas the fee in Lavant , £ 12 of land in Pressinton , and other lands there for fee.20 The pleadings in the suit record a somewhat different agreement ; any deficiency in Prescinton ' to be made good in Yllesham , which was a member of Ford . For this agreement Eruinger gave Thomas 50 marks.21 Prescinton alias Pressinton appears to be West Preston in Rustington.22 


 1 


 < 


 In 1213 Engelger de Bohun is named as one of the king's marshals in Normandy.23 He died towards the end of 1218 in the Holy Land , 24 and was succeeded by his brother Savary , who had a grant in 1216 of £ 15 of land late of William Fitz - Alan in Stoke , Suss.25 Early in 1233 Lucy de Ardern , late wife of Thomas de Ardern , released for 100 marks to Savary de Bohun her claim of dower in the manors of Ford and Climping.26 Savary held 3 fees in 1242-3 in Midhurst and Ford of Hugh earl of Arundel , 27 and in 1244 the service of his 3 fees in those places and in Rustington , Climping , Poling , Wenham ( Rogate ) , Trotton , Dumpford and Didling was assigned to the pourparty of John Fitz - Alan.28 He died in 1246 , when Franco his son and heir had terms for payment of his father's 


 
 
 : 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 84] ===
 
 
 68 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 debts.29 In 1259 John de Gatesden , the younger , held the manors of Trotton , Didling and Dumpford of Franco de Bohun for fee , 30 and in 1272 the same Franco held 3 fees of John Fitz - Alan , doing suit to the court of Arundel and ward there for 40 days in time of war at his own charges.31 He died in the ensuing year holding the manors of Midhurst , Ford , and Rustington of the earl of Arundel for 3 fees ; his son Sir John de Bohun was aged 26 years . 32 


 In 1279 the same John claimed free warren and assize of bread & c . in his manors of Midhurst , Ford , Rustington , Easebourne and a free borough in Midhurst by prescription.33 Before 1280 John , son and heir of Franco , gave land in Bere , Dorset , to the nuns of Tarrant.34 He died in 1284 , leaving John his son , aged 9.35 


 In 1285 Anthony de Bek , bishop of Durham , as trustee , settled £ 100 worth of land in Ford on Joan , late the wife of John de Bohun , for her life , with remainder to John son and heir of John de Bohun and his heirs.36 This Joan was daughter and heir of John de Baa ( Bathonia ) by Eleanor his wife.37 See the settlements made upon her children in Sussex Feet of Fines ( ii . 133 , 145 ) . She died in 1328 possessed of lands in the soke of Waltham , Lincs.38 John son and heir of John died in his minority in 1291.39 James his brother and heir proved his age in 1302,40 but died in 1307,41 leaving John his son , then a minor , who proved his age in 1323.42 He held 31 fees in Midhurst , Rustington and Ford in 1330 of Edmund earl of Kent.43 


 
 
 The manor of Bosham was given to John Marshal , brother of William Marshal , afterwards earl of Pembroke , by King Richard and confirmed in 1200 by King John to William Marshal , brother and heir of John Marshal.44 


 
 
 The manor of Stoughton , as a member of Bosham , was parcel of the possessions of Hugh le Bigod in 1252 , when he had a grant of free warren there.45 In 1279 by fine between the king and Roger le Bigod , earl of Norfolk and marshal of England , the manor of Bosham and its appurtenances and the manor of Stoughton with other manors were settled upon the earl and his issue with remainder to the king.46 It was presented that year that Hugh Bigod , Roger's father , had made warren in Stoughton without warrant , whereupon earl Roger lost his warren there.47 The earl died in 1307 holding inter alia the manor of Stoughton , Suss . , of the earl of Arundel by the rent of 1 lb. pepper yearly at the earl's manor of Westbourne.48 


 I 


 
 
 1. Round , Calendar , 510. 2. Vesp . F. xv . f . 135. 3. Round , Calendar , 238. 4. Red Bk . 201. 5. R. Chart . 16b . 6. Pipe R. 3 Hen . II , p . 80 ; 4 Hen . II , p . 182 ; 5 Hen . II , p . 60. 7. Lewes ; Vesp . F. xv . f . 138 . 8. Pipe R. 6 Hen . II , p . 55. 9. Exemplified and confirmed to John de Bohun of Midhurst in 1361 ; Cal . Pat . R. 535. 10. Stapleton , Norman Excheq . ii . p . xxxii ff .; a better codex is the exemplification of Henry II's charter in Cal . Pat . R. 1358-61 , p . 535. 11. Ibid . xxxiv .; Cott . MS . Claud . A. vi . f . 75. 12. Pipe R. 14 Hen . II , p . 194. 13. Ibid . 32 Hen . II , p . 184 . 14. Cal . Pat . R. 1354-61 , p . 534. 15 . 16. Abbrev . Placit . 88 . Trin :, 14 John . 


 17. R. Lit. Claus . i . 93 . Abbrev . Placit . 86b . 


 Red Bk . 113 and note . 18. Pleas in co . Suss . , 20. Suss . Feet of F. i . 33 . 


 19 . 21. Abbrev . Placit . 88 . Claus . i . 164 . 24 . Feet of F. i . n . 273 . 


 22. Cf. Suss . Feet of F. i . n . 307 . Ibid . 383b , 404b , 429. 25. Ibid . 2486 . 27. Testa , 222. 28 . 


 23. R. Litt . 26. Suss . 29. Excerpt . 


 Close R. 250 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 85] ===
 
 
 LYMINSTER 69 


 
 
 31. Ibid . i . 279 . 


 30. Cal . Inquis . i . 126 . Placit . de quo war . 756b . 


 36. Suss . Feet of F. ii . 38. Cal . Inquis . vii . 97 . 


 34. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 228 . 133. 37. Cal . Close R. 39. Cal . Fine R. i . 301 . 42. Cal . Close R. 651 . 


 41. Cal . Fine R. i . 553 . 


 44. R. Chart . 47b ; Bk . of Fees , 71. 45. Cal . 46. Suss . Feet of F. ii . n . 891 . 47. Placit . de quo 48. Cal . Inquis . iv . 292 . 


 
 
 e R. Fin . i . 451 . 32. Ibid . ii . 27 . 33 . 35. Cal . Inquis . ii . 322 . 1291 , pp . 184 , 215 . 40. Cal . Close R. 561 . 43. Cal . Inquis . vii . 230 . Chart . R. i . 375 . war . 755b . 


 
 
 XVIII . 


 Earl Roger in 1086 held Lyminster ( 20 hides ) , of which some portion later belonged to the fee of Arundel . 


 
 
 Henry I gave to Reginald Hareng 10 librates of land pertaining to Chichester , because severed , namely Shopwyke for 100s . and tilled land outside Chichester for 100s . It was not known in 1212 how Reginald's heirs held the land.¹ Ralph Hareng gave to the priory of Lewes the tithe of Shopwyke.2 Henry II gave to William earl of Arundel ( land ) of his demesne which the earl attorned to military service and in 1166 ( ? ) Reginald Hareng held a part of it for I fee.³ 


 
 
 In 1230 Ralph II , bishop of Chichester , confirmed to the canons of the Causeway of Arundel land there given by William Harang and by Reginald Harang with the assent of William Harang his heir ; Emma mother of William Harang with his assent gave 8s . rent from land of Bedefund for lights of the church , being of her maritagium.¹ Land held by William Hareng near Arundel was given to the priory of St. Bartholomew of Pynham.5 William Harang married Alice or Felicia , one of the five daughters and coheirs of Ranulf de Broc of Chetton , Salop ( d . c.1179 ) , by Damietta his wife ( d . 1204 ) ; Isabel or Sibyl de Broc married ( 1 ) William de Arundel , ( 2 ) Ralph Belet ( ? ) , and died s.p. in 1253 ; the eldest daughter , Edelina ( d . 1221 ) , married Stephen de Turneham ( d . 1214 ) and had issue ( see Warenne , n . 5 , and Eudes the Sewer , n . 4 ) .6 William Harang left issue ( ? ) Guy Hareng , lord of Lyminster , who gave to Ralph Noth a tenement in Lyminster , and 5 daughters , heirs to their brother ( ? ) , of whom Felicia married Wauncy , father of Nicholas de Wauncy , and Emma , the elder daughter , married Hotoft and had issue Peter de Hotot , 


 7 


 
 
 father of Robert de Hotot . 


 Ranulf de Broc gave land to the canons of the Causeway of Arundel . Edeline de Broc gave to Sir Richard de Dol a native . of Chertsand ( ? near Polstead ) , and Edeline de Fellech released to Sir Hugh de Dol her right of dower in the tenements of William de Sante Fande.⁹ 


 
 
 In 1235 Geoffrey de Wykes for 15 marks released to Peter de Hotot and Nicholas de Wauncy So acres of land in Shopwyke , touching which they had been vouched to warranty by Ralph Belet and Sybil his wife.10 In 1236 Adam de Bedinges and Margaret his wife made a release of similar premises to the same parties.11 In 1242-3 Peter de Hotot held 1 fee in Lyminster of the earl of Arundel ; 12 in 1243 the service of Peter's fee in Lyminster and 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 86] ===
 
 
 70 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 4 


 Shopwyke was assigned to the dower of the countess of Arundel and in the ensuing year was assigned to the pourparty of John . Fitz - Alan.13 In 1246 terms were assigned to Peter de Hottot for payment of £ 34 of the crown debts of William Harang , his grand father.14 In 1249 Nicholas de Wauncy , for 70 marks , acknowledged that fee in Shopwyke , which Ralph Belet and Sibyl his wife held in Sibyl's dower of Nicholas ' inheritance , was the right of Peter de Hottot , subject to the said dower , to hold of the said Nicholas ; William Brito put in his claim.15 Robert de Hotot succeeded his father soon after 1253. He was described as a knight in 1276 , and in 1284 , with Hawise his wife , he acknowledged to Isabel de Mortemer that the manor of Shopwyke was her right , and she granted it to them.16 In 1284-5 the same Robert held 1 fee in Lyminster of the lord of Arundel.17 Fines levied in 1306 between Rolland Huscarl and Margaret his wife and Ralph de Heure and Hawise his wife touching the manor of Shopwyke and lands in Lyminster and Bromhurst point to Robert de Hotot having left two daughters his heirs , 18 and that the interest of the Wauncy family in the tenement had ended . Hawise late the wife of Ralph de Heure held at her death in 1318 the manor of Shopwyke of the earl of Arundel for fee ; Thomas de Heuere , her son , was aged mnz 20 years.19 This Thomas held fee in Shopwyke in 1330 of Edmund earl of Kent , 20 and the following year he had a grant of free warren there and in his lands at Ifeld , Heure and Halsted , Kent.21 


 
 
 1. Bk . of Fees , 73 . 2. Round , Calendar , p . 510 . 3. Red Bk . 201 . 4. Cat . of Anct . D. v . A. 11537. 5. Turner and Coxe , Cat . of Bodleian Chs . 576 . 6. Eyton , Salop , i . 170-8 ; x . 214 ff .; Round , The King's Serjeants , 99 ff .; Cal . Inquis . i . 84 , 99 . 7. Turner and Coxe , Cal . of Bodleian Chs . 580. 8. Vide sup . A. 11537. 9. Hist . MSS . Com . , Rep . vii . 5986. 10. Suss . Feet of F. i . n . 322 . 11. Ibid . n . 332. 12. Testa , 13. Close R. 112 , 250. 14. Excerpt . e R. Fin . ii . 1 . Feet of F. i . n . 508. 16. Suss . Feet of F. ii . n . 966 . 18. Suss . Feet of F. ii . nos . 1198 , 1209 . 20. Ibid . vii . 230. 21. Cal . Chart . R. iv . 199 . 


 222 . 


 I. 


 15. Suss . 17. Feud . Aids , 19. Cal . Inquis . vi . 


 
 
 V. 128 . 


 85 . 


 
 
 XIX . 


 Angmering , Suss . , was held of earl Roger at the Survey in moieties by Warin and Geoffrey , each holding 4 hides . 


 From the Charter Roll of the 7th year of king John we learn that a certain Guy , with the consent of Nigel de Broc and his brothers , gave to his nephew Ranulf de Broc , son of Oyn Purcel , the whole land of Angmering ( Angemare ' ) and that Henry II confirmed this and other grants to the said Ranulf de Broc , his usher and marshal.¹ In 1156 Ranulf de Broc was pardoned 8s . 3d . of danegeld in Hampshire , 2 possibly in respect of his wife Dametta's estate of Frollebury.3 In the same year R ( obert ? ) de Broc was pardoned scutage of 20s . of the fee of the bishop of Winchester , 4 doubtless in respect of I fee which Robert de Broc held of the bishop in 1166.5 Nigel de Broc was with the king's court at Argentan in 1156–7 , and at Nottingham and York in 1158.6 From 1158 to 1168 Ranulf de Broc was the receiver of the forest of 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 87] ===
 
 
 ANGMERING 71 


 
 
 9 


 ' Witingelega , ' Hants . " In 1166 he held fee of the earl of Arundel 14 ( as described at n . 18 ) , 8 and I fee at Pepperharrow of William de Winlesores , which he had then recently acquired by purchase.¹º In the following year his vill of Pitt , Hants . , was amerced for forest trespass , ¹¹ and in 1168 he was pardoned his share of a murder fine in King's Somborne hundred.12 In 1175 ' Otteringburne ' ( Hants . ) of Ranulf de Broc was amerced.13 The township of Angmering ( Hangemara ' ) of Randulf de Broc was pardoned a mark of default in 1176 by the king's writ.14 Ranulf died in 1179 or shortly after , and in 1189 6½ years ' rent for land of the honor of Arundel at 60s . per annum was charged against his name.15 Nigel de Broc also owed 50s . in Martinsgrave on the honor of Arundel for year.16 


 In 1197 Nigel de Broc demised to Robert Avenell and William his brother pasture for their beasts in the common pasture of ' Tuffesdon in Selkeden , ' Suff . , 17 and in the same year confirmed the grant by fine.18 In 1201 a grand assize was to be summoned between Godfrey bishop of Winchester and Nigel de Broc , tenant , whether Nigel owed the service of 1 fee for the land of Brayfield , Hants . , to the bishop or not ; 19 from which it might appear that Nigel was heir of Robert , who held of the bishop in 1166 . 


 King John confirmed in 1205 to Stephen de Turnham and Edeline his wife , daughter ( and coheir ) of Ranulf de Broc , inter alia the land of Angmering ( as described above ) and the land of Pepper Harrow , Surrey , and Thorncumb , Dorset.20 Edeline de Broc died in 1221 , when a mandate was issued to the sheriff of Hampshire to take her land and chattels into the king's hands.21 Angmering did not descend in her heirs , for in 1229 Robert de Broc released to Ranulf de Broc his right in 2 carucates in Angmering , for which Ranulf gave him all his land in Merwenedenn and 40 marks besides.22 Two years later Ranulf gave to Ralph bishop of Chichester all his land at Graylingwell , Suss.23 In 1233 , and again in 1237 , Walter de Dunstanvill and Ranulf del Brok were taking steps for a determination of the bounds between their respective lands in Burpham and Angmering.24 In the last - named year two men were liberated who had been incarcerated for taking the king's venison in Windsor forest with the son of Ranulf del Broc . 25 


 
 
 In 1242-3 Ranulf del Brok held fee in Angmering of the earl of Arundel ; 26 in 1243 the said Ranulf's service there was assigned to the countess of Arundel in dower , and in 1244 to the pourparty of Roger de Sumery and Nicholaa his wife.27 Before this date Ranulf had enfeoffed Richard , abbot of Evesham , and his convent of the manor of Trotsworth ( in Egham ) , Surrey.28 In 1242-3 Henry de Stowell and Robert Pipard held 1 hide in New Windsor by serjeanty of the barony of Ranulf del Brok.29 In 1256 William de Braouse remitted his claim against Ranulf del Brok , that he should do suit to the hundred court of Brightford , and Ranulf withdrew his claim to chase in certain of Braouse's demesne lands.30 Ranulf's successor was Nigel del Broc , who was not at Evesham against the king in 1265 , although his manor of Albourne , Suss . , and land in Berenden were seized in 1265-6.31 In 1267 he had 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 88] ===
 
 
 72 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 letters of protection for coming to the king's court with his house hold , harness and goods.32 In 1271 , for 50 marks , he acknowledged the right of the dean and chapter of Chichester to a messuage and 


 
 
 fee in Greylingwell ( in West Hampnett ) , 33 given by his pre decessor . In 1279 Nigel de Brock and Hugh de Buscy claimed wreck of the sea in their manors of Lancing and Kingston next Shoreham , but the knights elected to try the matter declared that they had no such right and that it pertained to William de Braose's rape of Bramber.34 In 1284-5 Nigel held 1 ( recte ) fee in the vill of East Angmering of the lord of Arundel.35 A small tenement at Perching was held of him in 1286,36 but in 1294 Roger de Rokeslee , the elder , passed by fine for £ 100 to William bishop of Bath and Wells the manor of East Angmering with the advowson of the church.37 In 1306 John de Cuckefeld and Ascelina his wife for 100 marks acknowledged that a third part of the manor of East Angmering was the right of Reginald de Rokesle and Joan his wife.38 Reginald and Joan in 1310 granted their manor ( excepting the advowsons of the church and a chantry therein ) for a term of years to trustees or mortgagees.39 Eventually East Angmering was absorbed in the demesne of Arundel and in 1384 Richard earl of Arundel had a grant of market and fair in that place.40 


 
 
 1. R. Chart . 160b . 2. Pipe R. 2 Hen . II , p . 55 . 3. R. Lit. Claus . i . 4b . 4. Pipe R. 56. 5. Red Bk . 206. 6. Round , Calendar , n . 413 ; Cal . Chart . R. iii . 268 , 397. 7. Pipe R. 4-14 Hen . II , pass . 8. Red Bk . 9. Ibid . 315 . 10. R. Chart . 160b . 11. Pipe R. 13 Hen . II , 12. Ibid . 14 Hen . II , p . 183 . 13. Ibid . 21 Hen . II , p . 219 . 14. Ibid . 22 Hen . II , 204 . 15. Ibid . 1 Ric . I , p . 13 . 16. Ibid . 213 . 17. Feet of F. ( Pipe R. Soc . xx . ) , 142 . 18. Ibid . 19. Abbrev . Placit . 34 . 20. R. Chart . 160b . 21. Excerpt . e R. Fin . i . 63 . 22. Suss . Feet . of F. i . n . 248. 23. Cal . Chart . R. i . 141 ff . 24. Close 25. Ibid . 432 . 26. Testa , 222 . 


 201 . 179 . 


 R. 1233 , p . 27. Close R. F. ii . 20 . 


 308 ; 1237 , p . 561 . 112 , 251. 28. Ibid . 88. 29. Testa , 124 b . 30. Suss . Feet of 31. Miscel . Inquis . i . nos . 909 , 918. 32. Cal . Pat . R. 103 . 33. Suss . Feet . of F. ii . n . 776. 34. Placit . de quo war . 754b . 35. Feud . Aids , v . 128. 36. Cal . Inquis . ii . 361. 37. Suss . Feet of F. ii . n . 1086 . 38. Ibid . n . 1215. 39. Cal . Close R. 334 . 40. Cal . Chart . R. v . 291 . 


 XX . 


 C 


 Nutbourne by Chichester was involved in the Domesday Survey either in Westbourne , or Estone , ' identified as including Stoughton ; probably in the first - named place . Part of the 4 hides in Up Marden which Azo held of earl Roger ( n . 6 ) appears to have belonged to this feudal tenement , as also does a manor in Burpham . 


 In the time of Stephen the land of Manasser Aguillun was held of William earl of Arundel for 2 fees.¹ In 1156 the same Manasser was pardoned danegeld in Sussex amounting to 30s . , equal to the charge on 15 hides . Prior to 1157 he attested , as Manasser Aculeus , ' a charter of William earl of Chichester to the monks of Troarn . He gave or confirmed , with the consent of his sons , William , Robert and Richard , to Holy Trinity , Chichester , a church of Burpham ( n . 5 ) , where there appear to have been at least two churches.4 In the time of Henry II he held land formerly of the demesne of Henry I , which the Earl of Arundel had attorned 


 3 


 
 
 C 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 89] ===
 
 
 NUTBOURNE 


 
 
 73 


 to knights ' service , for 2 fees.5 Manasser probably died before . 1179 , for in that year Robert Aguillon proffered 40 marks for having seisin of Neoburna , ' presumably Nutbourne , and for licence to make an agreement with his brother . During the period 1175-83 Robert Aguillun and Richard his brother attested a charter of William earl of Sussex.7 


 
 
 6 


 
 
 6 


 Possibly the brother of 1179 was William , eldest son and heir of Manasser . He married Sarra , one of the 3 sisters and coheirs of Aubrey de Bendevill , and in 1194 he and his wife were impleaded by Hawise de Walton , another sister and coheir , for a moiety of the land of Aubrey de Bendevill in West Peckham and East Barming , Kent , West Betchworth and Farnet , ' Surrey . Derkin de Acra , who had Emma , another of the sisters , had already obtained a pourparty of the inheritance by agreement made in the king's court . 8 Agreement was made with Hawise later in the year by the grant of the manor of ' Fernet , ' Surr . , and of the reversion , after the death of William and Sarra , of the manor of Betchworth.9 William and Sarra were dwelling at Burpham at this time , as appears by the record of their plea against Philip de Stanes of Wiltshire for the forcible abduction from their house of Constantia de la Stane , widow 10 of Manasser Aguillon , son of the said William and Sarra , and afterwards the wife of Godfrey de St. Martin.11 In 1190 an agreement was made by which Henry de Percy obtained from William Aguillum and Sarra de Bendevill his wife and from Hugh de Bolton and Basilia his wife , daughter of Stephen de Dammartin , a quitclaim of land in ' Eissart ' or ' Cissoch . Sarra held her part as dower of her former husband Stephen de Dam martin.12 The place has not been identified . Stephen occurs in Surrey in 1156.13 In 1198 Sarra de Bendevill held the serjeanty of Peckham by finding a man to bear a goshawk overseas from Michaelmas to Candlemas.14 Later ( 1219 ) Emma de Bendevill held it.15 


 
 
 At this point the succession is uncertain . In 1199 there was a suit between Richard Aguillun and Manasser Aguillun in respect of Richard's free tenement in Inland , ' Suss . , 16 and the same year Richard Ageliun attorned his son Robert against Hugh Warin in a plea of land in Estres and Bretteville in Normandy.17 Richard Aguillon and Robert his son attested in 1201 an agreement made at Lambeth between the abbot of Cluny and Hamelin , earl Warenne.18 This Richard confirmed the charter of Manasser his grandfather , William , Robert and Richard , sons of the said Manasser , giving the church of Burpham to Holy Trinity , Chichester , and renewed the gift by his own charter , attested by William de St. John , Nicholas de Limesi ( see n . 25 ) , and others . These charters received the royal confirmation in 1227.19 In 1217 Robert Aguillun returned to allegiance and recovered seisin of his lands in Sussex.20 


 
 
 The identity of the various holders of the name Aguillon during the period 1200-1230 is difficult to solve . There were : Robert Aguillon , constable of Wallingford castle in 1203-4 ; Richard Aguillon , constable of Oreford 1224-26 ; Reginald Aguillon , bailiff of the honor of Arundel in 1226 ; Robert Aguillon of Debenham , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 90] ===
 
 
 74 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 Suff . , in 1221-2 ; William Aguillun , the king's serjeant of Adding ton ( Warenne , n . 9 ) ; and families settled in the counties of Lincoln and York . We reach firm ground with Richard Aguillun , who married Margery sister and coheir of Richard de Thorney ( d . 1222 ) , son of William de Thorney of Thorney and Chidham , Suss.21 In 1212 Richard de Thorney held of the bishop of Exeter 2 fees of ancient feoffment of the chapelry of Bosham.22 Matilda his relict admitted in 1222 that she was not enceinte and acknowledged that Richard de Grenestede and others were Richard's heirs.23 In the same year William son of Richard Aguillun , then under age , Richard de Grenestede and their coparceners acknowledged that three fourths of fee in Offham , Suss . , were the right of Reginald Aguillun to hold of them and their heirs for £ 4 rent.2 24 William was to have 2 marks as his share , i.e. a third part . Reginald's father is not identified ; his mother is named below . 


 
 
 Early in 1223 , Margery wife of Richard Aguillun being pre sumably dead and William Aguillun her son representing her , dower was assigned to Matilda relict of Richard de Thorney.25 In 1227 certain gifts of land in Up Marden , made by Mary , daughter of Eustace de Valle Pironis , mother of Reginald Aguillun , to John Aguillun , and her release for £ 100 to Reginald her son of the manor of Up Marden , were effected by final agreements.26 In the ensuing year Richard Aguillun passed by fine to his eldest son William à third part of 2 fees in Thorney and Walton , as the said William's inheritance through Margery his mother , 27 and by another fine Richard acknowledged the right of Robert Aguillon in a moiety of the manor of Burpham and of the chief messuage , who demised it to Richard for his life , with reversion to his own ( Robert's ) heirs.28 A curious case came for decision in 1236 , the king directing the trial of his seventh roll by a jury of 12 knights , because it appeared on that roll that William Agulun , who had an heir of Bartholomew de Cheym , was on that account liable for knight's service ; for it was recorded that Bartholomew answers for 1 mark to the scutage of Toulouse of 2 marks a fee , so that the service of half a knight was due . The jury found that neither Bartholomew nor his pre decessors were so liable , their service being one of serjeanty , namely to find a cook in the king's kitchen on the day of his coronation to do whatever the steward might direct . William and the heir of Bartholomew were therefore declared exempt from knight's service , the judge observing by way of a joke that the said roll should be cast into the Fleet prison , having been convicted by a jury of twelve.29 


 I 


 In 1235 William Aguillun released by fine to John Aguillun a moiety of the manor of Burpham , 30 and Robert le Franceys released to the same John a virgate in Up Marden.31 In 1241 the same William released to Walter de Lymesi ( son of Nicholas de Lymesi , n . 25 ) fee in North Marden.32 In 1242-3 William Aguillun held 3 fees in Nutbourne and Marden of the earl of Arundel.33 In the ensuing year his service of these fees was assigned to the dower of the countess of Arundel , and in 1244 to the pourparty of Robert de Tateshale , as of 3 fees in Nutbourne , Marden and Burpham ( ' Burch ' ) .34 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 91] ===
 
 
 NUTBOURNE 75 


 
 
 The subsequent descent of this fee is shown in the annexed 


 pedigree . 


 
 
 Richard Aguillon d . int . 1228-35 . 


 
 
 William under age 


 in 1222 ; living 1242 . 


 
 
 Richard d . ante I304 . 


 
 
 Thomas 


 d . 1309 under age . 


 
 
 = 


 
 
 Juliana a . 3 in 1309 ; 


 d . 1312 . 


 
 
 = 


 
 
 Margery sister and coheir of Richard de Thorney ( dead 1222 ) . 


 
 
 John Robert Agatha Matilda 


 
 
 Eleanor Sarra d . 1308 . 


 = Will . White 


 man . 


 
 
 Cecily Richard 


 
 
 Mabel 


 
 
 Richard de Weston 


 a . 40 in 1312 . 


 
 
 Mary dau . of Eustace de Valle Pironis 


 
 
 
 
 1222 ; had manor of Up Marden Gregory 1227 . Jeudewyn de Chedny 


 a . 50 in 1312 . 


 
 
 Reginald Aguillon , 


 
 
 Matilda 


 a . 30 in 1312 Henry 


 de Bulke- Nicholas strode . de Chey 


 ney a . 16 in 1312 . 


 
 
 Isabel 


 
 
 In 1304 John Romeyn , as guardian of the heir of Richard Aguillon , held 3 fees in Nutbourne , Up Marden and Burpham of Robert de Tateshale.35 


 
 
 In 1308 Eleanor late wife of Richard Aguillon held at her death 3 fees in Nutbourne , Up Marden and Burpham of Robert son and heir of Robert de Tateshale , 36 of the inheritance of Thomas son and heir of the said Richard.37 Next year these 3 fees were assigned to the pourparty of Thomas de Cailli , kinsman and coheir of Robert de Tateshale.38 Thomas son and heir of Richard Aguillon was now deceased and Juliana his daughter , aged 3 , was next heir of the said Thomas.39 Juliana died in 1312 , holding the manor of Nutbourne of the heirs of Robert de Tateshale for 1 fee , a messuage and 1 carucate in Thorney and a messuage in Chidham , Sussex , of the bishop of Chichester for fee . The heirs were as they are described on the annexed pedigree.40 On 5 December , 1312 , the escheator was ordered to make a partition , which was duly enrolled on the Close Roll.41 


 
 
 John Aguillon , who in 1284-5 held fee in Burpham of the earl of Arundel , 42 died leaving a daughter Sarah , who was the wife of William Whiteman in 1312 , and unsuccessfully claimed the inheritance as next heir.43 In 1316 John Covert and William Elmer were lords of Burpham , and Nicholas de Spershute was lord of Nutbourne.44 In 1327 Nicholas de Spereshute or Pershute died seised of a moiety of the manor of Nutbourne by Chichester held with his coparceners of the heir of Thomas de Cailli for 3 fees and suit at the said heir's court of Walderton ; Peter his son was aged 40 years.45 In 1335 died John son of John de Seyntclere 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 92] ===
 
 
 76 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 + 


 
 
 fee 


 holding the manor of Nutbourne of Peter de Spereshutte for and suit at the said Peter's court of Nutbourne ; John his son by Alice his wife was aged 3 years . 46 


 In 1340 licence , at the request of John de Warenne , earl of Surrey , and Henry de Percy , was granted for the alienation by the prior of Lewes to the canons of Shulbred of the church of Up Marden.47 


 
 
 1. Red Bk . 201. 2. Pipe R. 2 Hen . II , 61. 3. Bruton Chartul . n . 338. 4. Cal . Chart . i . 35 ff .; Mon. Anglic . vi . 1171. 5. Red Bk . 201 . 6. Pipe R. 25 Hen . II , p . 38 . 7. Cal . Chart . R. 111 , 368. 8. R. Cur . Regis . ( Pipe R. Soc . xiv . ) , 6 , 30 ; Abbrev . Placit . 97. 9. R. Cur . Regis . ( Rec . Com . ) , i . 13. 10. Ibid . 74 , 109. 11. Ibid . 77 , 130 . 12. Percy Chartul . ( Surt . Soc . ) , 382. 13. Pipe R. 2 Hen . II , 11. 14. Bk . of Fees , 13 . 15. Ibid . 270. 16. R. Cur . Regis . ii . 50. 17. Ibid . 


 19. Cal . Chart . i . 35 , 179 . 


 Calendar , n . 1403 . i . 3386 . 


 21. Suss . Feet of F. i . nn . 181 , 204 , 298 . 71 . 23. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 128. 24. Ibid . n . Feet of F. nn . 181 , 191 . 26. Ibid . nn . 202-3 . 


 28. Ibid . n . 205. 29. Red Bk . 754. 30. Suss . Feet of F. n . 283 . n . 294. 32. Ibid . n . 394. 33. Testa , 222. 34. Close R. 112 , 249 . 


 178. 18. Round , 20. R. Lit. Claus . 22. Bk . of Fees , 189. 25. Suss . 27. Ibid . n . 204 . 31. Ibid . 35. Cal . 37. Cal . Fine R. ii . 37 . 40. Ibid . v . 227 . 42. Feud . Aids , 


 Inquis , iv . 106. 36. Cal . Inquis . iv . 260 . 38. Cal . Close , 100 . 39. Cal . Inquis . v . 57 . 41. Cal . Fine R. ii . 153-4 ; Cal . Close R. PP . 492 , 499 . V. 128 . 43. Cal . Close R. 493 . 44. Feud . Aids , v . 140 , 142. 45. Cal . Inquis . vii . 4. 46. Ibid . 472 . 47. Cal . Pat . R. 523 . 


 
 
 XXI . 


 Martinsgrave , Drayton , Shopwyke , ' Orrea Regis ' and ' Egelie in the time of King Henry I pertained to the city of Chichester , wherefor the reeves of Chichester received gavel and took it to the exchequer ; now ( 1212 ) they receive nothing.¹ 


 Henry I gave £ 20 of land in Drayton and Martinsgrave with appurtenances of Chichester to 2 knights , namely Conan and William de Fraxino ; of which their heirs hold nothing now ( 1212 ) , but when the earl of Arundel recovered Chichester and other the said lands ( as above ) he gave them to whom he would.2 John de Gates dene gave to Boxgrave priory all the land of La Grave which he had by the gift of William de Fraxino , knt . , in exchange for other land in Harting & c . Henry III gave a confirmation in 1246.3 


 4 


 In 1166 or earlier the land of Alan son of Conan was held for I fee ( as described at n . 19 ) . Within the next 20 years this fee became the property of the Fitz - Alans of Clun , Salop . In 1187 scutage of I fee in the honor of Arundel , viz . 20s . , to the scutage of Galloway , was pardoned to William Fitz - Alan.5 In 1189 William Fitz - Alan had been tenant of 3 solidates of land of the honor of Petworth for 6 years . 6 Woodland of John Fitz - Alan is mentioned in 1225 in the perambulation of the forest of Sussex . In 1242 John L'Estrange , justice of Chester , had the custody of the lands late of John Fitz - Alan , and possibly in that capacity was returned in 1242-3 as holding 1 fee in Drayton of the earl of Arundel . In 1244 the service of the same John L'Estrange of fee in Drayton was assigned to the pourparty of Roger de Somery and Nicholaa his wife.10 


 7 


 8 


 9 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 93] ===
 
 
 DRAYTON - HINTON DAUBENY , BINDERTON 77 


 
 
 Robert de Tresgoz confirmed to Boxgrove priory ( c . 1220 ) two crofts in his manor of La Grave which had been given him for his service . This he did for the souls of his dearest lord William the venerable earl of Arundel , himself , Sibil his wife and his children . Henry de Tresgoz was a witness.11 


 It was found by inquest taken in 1275 that Hamon L'Estrange had enfeoffed Urian de St. Peter of the whole manor of Drayton , Suss . , and that Urian afterwards enfeoffed Robert de Staundon of a fourth part of the manor and Robert was in seisin at Hamon's death . Afterwards , when Urian recovered the manor from the king's hands he delivered his own and Robert's part to Geoffrey de Pichford to farm.12 In 1282 John Tregoz acknowledged by fine that the manor of Drayton was the right of Geoffrey de Picheford and Alice his wife and their issue.13 The same year Tregoz gave the manor of Drayton , par . of Oving , Suss . , to queen Eleanor , who gave it to Geoffrey de Picheford , knight of her household , and Alice his wife ; Sir Roger de Clifford , the elder , who held it for life , released his interest to queen Eleanor ; for which grant Geoffrey gave to the queen in exchange certain lands in Ashford and Sheldon , Derbys.14 In 1298 Ralph Basset of Sapecote and Margaret his wife demanded against Geoffrey de Picheford and Alice his wife a third part of the manor of Drayton as his wife's dower by the endowment of Urian de St. Peter , her first husband . The de mandants released their claim for £ 10.15 Geoffrey de Picheford died in or before 1299 holding the manor of Drayton as described above ( 1282 ) .16 He was for many years prior to his death constable of Windsor Castle . In 1327 Bartholomew de Badelesmere died possessed of the reversion of the manor of Drayton after the death of John L'Estrange , held of the heirs of Roger de Someri for fee ; Giles his son and heir was aged 16 years.17 


 
 
 1. Bk . of Fees , 72. 2. Ibid . 73. 3. Chartulary , Claud . A. vi . ff . 128-130 . 4. Red Bk . 201. 5. Pipe R. 33 Hen . II , p . III . 6. Ibid . 1 Ric . I , p . 214. 7. R. Lit. Claus . ii . 8ob . 8. Excerpt . e R. Fin . i . 384. 9. Testa , 222. 10. Close R. 251. 11. Chartulary , Claud . A. vi . f . 64d . 12. Cal . Inquis . ii . 92. 13. Suss . Feet of F. ii . n . 943 . 14. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 261 ; Cal . Close R. 1280 , p . 46 . 15. Suss . Feet of F. ii . n . 1122 . 16. Cal . Inquis . iii . 435 . 17. Ibid . vii . 95 . 


 
 
 XXII . 


 Hinton Daubeny in Catherington , Hants . , was included in earl Roger's great manor of Chalton ( Ceptune ' ) . Binderton , Suss . , was held by earl Roger as 3 hides . 


 During the period 1121-29 Roger de Combrai attested a charter of Ranulf earl of Chester to St. Evroul . In 1166 or earlier the land of Alvred de Cumerai was held for 1 fee 2 ( as described under n . 18 ) . In the time of Henry II Alvred de Cumbrai and Richard de Cumbrai attested a charter of earl Hugh of Chester to St. Evroul.³ This name occurs also in other counties . In Buckinghamshire Ralph de Cambrai was amerced in 1180 for a default.ª Ralph de Cumbray was said to have held 10 librates of land in the parish of 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 94] ===
 
 
 78 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 Catherington.5 In 1184 William de Cumbrai was amerced for a new disseisin in Devon . Among forest pleas in Nottinghamshire in 1185 Alvred de Cumbrai was amerced for default . Two years later the balance of his amercement was recorded under Nottingham shire with the observation ' Sed mortuus est . ' 8 Combray is in Calvados . See Chester , n . 9 . 


 In 1205 Binderton , Suss . , late of Robert de la Mote , the king's enemy , was delivered to the earl as of his fee , and in 1212 he so held it.10 


 9 


 
 
 In 1233 the king granted to Emery de Orval ( de Rivallis ) for his support , during the king's pleasure , the land which William de Mileres ( late constable of Windsor ? ) held in Hinton of the bail of William earl of Arundel and the land which Reginald Aguillon held in Binderton of the same earl's bail , being of the said earl's fee of the Normans ' lands.11 In the ensuing year the king committed to Hugh de Aubigny the land late of Ralph de Cumbrai , a Norman , in Hinton , being of Hugh's fee , which the king had previously granted to Emery de Orval ; these letters were directed to the sheriff of Hampshire , and similar letters were written to the sheriff of Sussex touching the land late of Robert de Mota , a Norman , in Binderton.12 In 1243 Bernard of Savoy obtained seisin of the manor of Binderton during the king's pleasure.13 In 1280 the gift or sale to the abbey of Tarent made by Bernard de Sauve knt . of the manor of Binderton for £ 200 was confirmed.14 In 1242-3 the earl of Arundel held Hinton for I fee of ancient feoffment.1 15 In 1244 the king granted to William de Aubigny and Juliana his wife for life the manor of [ Hinton ] , Hants . , which Geoffrey de Cumbray , a Norman , held , subject to a competent exchange in case the manor was restored to the right heirs.16 In 1252 William de Aubigny , king's serjeant , had a grant of free warren in Hinton.17 He died in or before 1269 when Juliana his relict had the wardship . of his land and heirs.18 He held land in Kingsholme , Gloucs . , of the king by the service of keeping the door of the king's dispensary at the king's summons ; John de Aubigny , aged 20 , was his heir.19 John de Aubigny was in possession of this fee in 1286.20 


 In 1303 Richard de Bourhunte complained of trespassers on his land at Hinton by Catherington.21 In the ensuing year died . John d'Aubeny holding land and rent at Hinton Daubeny of the king in chief for fee , and other tenements there of the earl of Arundel by the service of 6 fleches ' ; John his son was aged 11 years.22 The same year £ 9 14s . 6d . of rent in Hinton was assigned to Isabel late wife of the said John d'Aubeny , besides rent at Kingsholme , Gloucs.23 In 1316 John d'Aubeny was lord of Hinton next Catherington.24 He died in 1334 holding the manor of Hinton of the king by the service of being usher of the king's larder on the day of his coronation , and other land there of Richard earl of Arundel by the service of rendering 6 arrow shafts at Michaelmas and doing suit to the said earl's hundred court of Finchdean every 3 weeks ; Ellis his son was aged 18 years.25 


 In 1358 John de Borehunt knt . died seised of the manor of Hinton , of which he had been enfeoffed jointly with Mary his wife , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 95] ===
 
 
 CATHERINGTON 79 


 
 
 who survived , held of Ellis D'Aubeny ; John his son was aged 14 years . 


 26 


 
 
 1. Round , Calendar , p . 223. 2. Red Bk . 201. 3. Round , Calendar , P. 225. 4. Pipe R. 26 Hen . II , p . 128 . cited in V. C. H. Hants . iii . 96 . 31 Hen . II , p . 114 . i . 356. 10. Red Bk . 555 . Pat . R. 392 . 14. Cal . Chart . R. i . 280. 17. Ibid . 381 . 20. Cal . Close R. 417 . 23. Cal . Close R. 143 . vii . 391 . 26. Ibid . x . 371 . 


 5. Assize R. , Mich . 8 Edw . I , 6. Pipe R. 30 Hen . II , p . 77. 7. Ibid . 8. Ibid . 33 Hen . II , p . 168. 9. R. Lit. Claus . 11. Close R. 239. 12. Ibid . 464. 13. Cal . 


 16. Cal . Chart . 


 311 . 


 146 . 


 
 
 R. ii . 228. 15. Testa , 2316 . 18. Cal . Pat . R. 331. 19. Cal . Inquis . i . 21. Cal . Pat . R. 193. 22. Cal . Inquis . iv . 24. Feud . Aids , ii . 318. 25. Cal . Inquis . 


 
 
 XXIII . 


 Catherington was included in earl Roger's manor of Chalton , 


 
 
 Hants . 


 4 


 8 


 In 1161 Robert de Praeers was pardoned in Hampshire 2 marks due from his knight or knights , ¹ and in the ensuing year the sheriff of Sussex accounted for mark for the scutage of the said Robert.2 In 1165 Robert de Praers paid mark in Sussex , possibly in respect of the levy for the army in Wales.3 In 1166 or earlier the land of Robert de Praers was held of the earl of Arundel for 1 fee ( as in n . 19 ) , and two years later he accounted under the honor of Arundel for mark for a knight.5 Among those who did not make a return of their carte of knights ' fees in 1172 Robert de Praeres accounted for 10s . of scutage.6 At Michaelmas 1180 the receiver of the honor of Arundel accounted for £ 9 4s . of the issues of the land of Robert de Praieres for 9 months , " and for the ensuing year £ 9 12s . 9d . from Chatlington and Chintinges , ' the land of Robert de Praers ; also 35s . for relief of the socheman of Hinton ( ' Heanton ' ) and 5s . of the devise of the same socheman's father . The issues of these two places continued until 1186 , when the sheriff of Sussex , and not the receiver of the honor of Arundel , accounted for 21s . 6d . of the farm of Chintinges , which Ralph de Dena held ( tenuit ) of Robert de Praers , 68s . 9d . of the corn and other issues , and 40s . of the farm of the same manor for the half - year in which Ralph de Dena had held it.10 In 1187 the receivers of the honor of Arundel accounted for £ 15 for 18 months ' issues of Chateringeton , ' late of Robert de Praers , less 80s . 1od . for 4 oxen ( 12s . ) , 178 sheep ( 59s . 4d . ) , 13 swine ( 6s . 6d . ) and 1 boar ( 3s . ) for restocking the said vill ; and 100s . for the last half of the year 1187 ; 11 further the sheriff of Sussex accounted for 42s . 4d . of the issues of Chintinges , late of Ralph de Dena , for one year.12 In 1189 the farm of ' Caterinton , ' late of Robert de Praers , was £ 10.13 


 9 


 
 
 Roger Tyrell in 1199 granted a toft in Catherington to William de Arundel , son and heir of Juliana de Wade , to be held by render ing a pair of gilt spurs.14 In 1212 it was recorded that Roger Tirel then held 1 fee in Chilting which he used to hold of Hascuil de Praeres by the same service . It was presented in 1237 that the abbot of Cirencester held certain land in Adderbury , Oxon . , late of Hasculf de Praeres.16 See Chester , n . 57. Milisent wife 


 15 


 
 
 L 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 96] ===
 
 
 80 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 of Robert de Praeres delivered to Roger Tirel at farm her dower , which was seised into the king's hands when Roger departed to England.17 Roger was dead in 1229 , when Olive his widow had livery of her late husband's land in Chinting ( Sentinges ' ) , Suss . , which the said Roger had held in chief of the king of her inherit ance . 18 Thomas Tyrel succeeded and died in 1240 , when the sheriff of Sussex was ordered to assign dower to Alice late wife of the said Thomas in his land in Chinting , Sussex , which he held of the king in chief.19 Custody of the land and heirs of the same Thomas was assigned to Roger le Gras , 20 and in 1241 dower was assigned to Alice in her late husband's land in Catherington , Hants . ; her right to marry her daughters , which she claimed by sale made to her by Hugh earl of Arundel , was under examination until it was decided whether the right belonged to her or to the king.21 In 1242-3 Thomas Tyrel ( sic ) was returned as holding 1 fee in Catherington of ancient feoffment of the earl of Arundel , 22 and in 1243 Roger le Gras complained that the sheriff of Southampton wrongfully disseised him of the custody of the land late of Thomas Tyrel in Catherington.23 In the ensuing year the service of John . le Cunte for I fee in Catherington was assigned to the pourparty of Roger de Somery and Nicholaa his wife . 24 


 
 
 Robert Corbet , William Wancy and dame Oliva Tyrel held the manor of Chinting in 1275 of the king in chief.25 In 1284 Lucy de Wauncy made a settlement of lands in Catherington , Hants . , and lands in Sussex on Roger de Wauncy and his heirs , subject to her life interest , with an ultimate remainder to her heirs.26 In 1289 Nigel de Cumbe had permission to enter tenements in Chinting which he had acquired from Lucy de Wauncy.27 The fee appears to have descended by the marriage of Thomas Tyrel's three daughters in the families of Olmestede , Hangelton and Cumbe . 


 
 
 In 1312 John de Olmestede held at his death a third part of a messuage in Chinting by the courtesy of England after the death of Matilda his wife , daughter and heir of Olive Tyrel , of the king in chief by the service of the third part of a serjeanty of finding in the king's army a man with unbarded horse , with haqueton , hauberk , sword and knife for 40 days and castle guard of Pevensey ; William his son was aged 27 years.28 Ralph de Hangelton and his parceners held Catherington in 1284-5 or 1302,29 and in 1316 Richard de Hangelton and Nicholas de Cumbe were lords of that part of Catherington which belonged to this fee.30 


 
 
 In 1338 William de Northo died seised of a tenement in Chinting held of the king by the service of finding a third part of a hobbler in his army of Wales for 40 days at his own charges and rendering 17d . for castle guard of Pevensey ; William his son was aged 36 years.31 In 1349 William Bouet died seised of tenements in Chinting held for his life , of the right of Joan his late wife , of the king by service of finding two - thirds of a hobelar as above ; Nigel Bouet , son of the said William and Joan , was aged 20 years . 32 


 
 
 1. Pipe R. 7 Hen . II , p . 57. 2. Ibid . 8 Hen . II , p . 32 . 3. Ibid . 11 Hen . II , p . 93 . 4. Red Bk . 201. 5. Pipe R. 14 Hen . II , p . 194 . 6. Ibid . 18 Hen . II , p . 132 . 7. Ibid . 26 Hen . II , p . 33 . 8. Ibid . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 97] ===
 
 
 STORRINGTON 81 


 
 
 9. Ibid . 27 Hen . II , p . 146 . 


 27 Hen . II , p . 146 . P. 184 . 


 I 


 1 Ric . I , p . 213 . 15. Bk . of Fees , 72 . Recueil des jugements de l'échiquier de Normandie , n . 21 . 19. Ibid . 194 . 20. Excerpt . e R. Fin . i . 337 . 22. Testa , 231b . 23. Close R. 107 . 24. Ibid . 251 . i . 208. 26. Suss . Feet of F. ii . n . 969. 27. Cal . Fine R. i . 262. 28. Cal . Inquis . v . 185 . 29. Feud . Aids , ii . 335 . 30. Ibid . 318 . 31. Cal . Inquis . viii . 105 . 32. Ibid . ix . 211 . 


 10. Ibid . 32 Hen . II , 11. Ibid . 33 Hen . II , pp . 110-1 . 12. Ibid . 109 . 13. Ibid . 14. V. C. H. Hants . iii . 95 , quoting Feet of F. 1 John . 16. Ibid . 614. Cf. Cal . Chart . R. i . 151. 17. Delisle , 18. Close R. 158 . 21. Close R. 305 . 25. R. Hund . 


 
 
 XXIV . 


 Robert in 1086 held of earl Roger 3 hides in Storrington ( ? ) , Suss . , which Alwin held of him ; Alwin also held of earl Roger in Marden 2 hides . He had held a considerable estate T.R.E. 


 
 
 I 


 In 1130 Robert nepos episcopi was pardoned 30s . 6d . out of an amercement of 11 marks for a murder in ' Abrenhale ' ( now Longbridge ) hundred , Suss.¹ As shown under Eudes the Sewer , n . 49 , this Robert was grandfather of William de Humez or Hommet , and father of Richard de Humez . In 1154 Richard de Humez ( de Hulmeto ' ) and Engelger de Bohun gave to the men of St. Fromond's priory , dioc . of Bayeux , freedom from toll at Le Hommet.3 


 2 


 
 
 4 


 6 


 In 1156 danegeld in Sussex amounting to 36s . was remitted to Richard de Humez , and two years later his contribution to the donum of that county , viz . 8s . 6d . , out of So marks , was also remitted.5 In 1162 danegeld in Sussex amounting to 41s . was pardoned to the same Richard . In 1166 the land of Richard de Humez was held for 2 fees of William de Aubigny , as of the honor of Arundel . In 1180 William de Humez the constable succeeded to the lands of Richard de Humez the constable , and in 1187 he was pardoned 40s . of the scutage of Galloway on 2 fees of the honor of Arundel . William Humez gave £ 200 of Anjou for relief of his land in 1200.10 His land was in the king's hand in 1205.1 11 


 9 


 
 
 There is nothing to show that Humez held Storrington , nor any indication how the Lovels of Castle Cary acquired it . Ralph Lovel , son and heir of Henry Lovel by his wife Alice de Kari , was living in 1200,12 but deceased in 1208 , when his brother Henry was heir to the family estates in England and Scotland.13 Henry's son Richard succeeded in 1218.14 In 1225 Richard Luvel and Thomas de Argentem acknowledged that a certain pasture in Aldingbourne was the right of the bishop of Chichester , and for this the bishop withdrew his claim to the pasture in Hampnett.15 In 1242-3 Richard Lovel held 1 fee in Storrington ( Storgeton ' ) of the earl of Arundel , 16 and in 1243 the service of 1 fee held by Richard Luvel as above was assigned to the dower of Isabel countess of Arundel and in the ensuing year to the pourparty of Roger de Sumery and Nicholaa his wife.17 Richard Lovel died early in 1255 , when Henry his son and heir gave £ 100 for relief of his father's land.18 This Henry died in 1263 , Richard his son being aged 28 years , 19 and giving 150 marks for his relief.20 Richard died in the following year , being succeeded by his brother Hugh.21 


 
 
 III . G 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 98] ===
 
 
 82 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 The record of a plea heard in December 1264 shows that Henry Lovel was in possession of the manor of Storrington ( Storketon ' ) except the advowson of the church , and enfeoffed his two daughters Alice and Christiana for their lives ; after Henry's death Alice did homage for herself and sister to Henry's son and heir Richard ; after Richard's death Hugh Lovel his brother intruded into Alice's freehold there ; she recovered her seisin.22 


 
 
 In 1276 Hugh Lovel demised the manor of Storrington to Sir Henry de Tregoz , lord of Goring , for 7 years to secure a loan of £ 86.23 Hugh Lovel died in 1291 holding inter alia fee in East Hampnett by Boxgrove held by William de Alta Ripa , having been given to his mother in marriage ; fee held by John de Chaggely as the dower of Alice his wife of the inheritance of William de Argenteym , having been given with the said William's grandmother in frank marriage ; fee held by Olive de Gurnay ; in Billing hurst fee and in Storrington & fee.24 His heir was under age , but in 1297 Richard Luvel , son and heir of Hugh Lovel , had livery of his father's lands.25 In 1316 Richard Lovel was lord of Storring ton , Suss . ( Storgheton ' ) .26 In 1331 Thomas Tregoz of Goring and Burpham had a grant of free warren inter alia in Storrington.27 Prior to 1347 the manor had passed into the hands of the earl of Arundel.28 


 1 


 3 


 
 
 2. R. de Fin . 199. Cf. Stapleton , 3. Round , Calendar , n . 968. 4. Pipe R. II , p . 132. 6. Ibid . 8 Hen . II , p . 31 . Hen . II , pass . 9. Ibid . 33 Hen . II , 11. Ibid . 131 , 135. 12. R. Cur . Reg . 


 
 
 Hen . I , p . 70 . p . clxxxii . 


 1. Pipe R. 31 Norman Excheq . ii . 2 Hen . II , p . 61 . 7. Red Bk . 202 . P. III . 10. R. ii . 156 , 253 . Fin . i . 13 , 16 . R. 112 , 252 . 


 5. Ibid . 4 Hen . 8. Pipe R. 26 Norman . 39 . 13. R. Chart . 180 ; R. Lit. Claus . i . 113 . 


 15. Suss . Feet of F. n . 192 . 18. Excerpt . e R. Fin . ii . 200 . 20. Excerpt . e R. Fin . ii . 405. 21. Cal . Inquis . i . 189 . R. 44-9 Hen . III , m . 17d ; Bain , Cal . Scot . i . 471 . 386. 24. Cal . Inquis . ii . 489. 25. Cal . Close R. 35 , 243. 26. Feud . Aids , v . 142. Cf. Cal . Close R. 1314 , P. 51 . 28. Cal . Pat . R. 328 ; Cal . Close R. 243 . 


 14. Excerpt . 16. Testa , 222. 17. Close 19. Cal . Inquis . i . 164 . 22. Curia Reg . 23. Cal . Close R. 


 27. Cal . Chart . R. iv . 258 . 


 
 
 XXV . 


 Reference to Martinsgrave ( now Groves , par . Oving ) will be found at n . 21 . William de Fresne held land there and in Drayton temp . Henry I.¹ Roger de Fraxino attested charters of Stephen relating to land of the honor of Pevensey and issued at Lewes during the period 1149-1153.2 In or before 1166 the land of Freisne was held of William earl of Arundel for 1 fee . In 1189 Nigel de Broc ( n . 19 ) had 50s . worth of land in Martinsgrave for a fourth part of the year by writ of Ranulf de Glanvill . In 1202 William de Fraxino of Sussex paid 1 mark for a default.5 In 1217 William de Frayny ( or Freyni ) returned to allegiance and obtained possession of his lands in Sussex ( ? ) and Essex.6 In 1223 the king restored to William earl of Arundel the land late of William de Fresne ( de Fraxino ' ) in Martinesgrave , Suss . , which Robert de Viliers , who was dead , had held , " and the sheriff of Sussex was directed to take into the king's hands the land late of William de 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 99] ===
 
 
 MARTINSGRAVE - HARTING 83 


 
 
 Fraxino , which Robert de Vilers , then recently dead , held as of the Normans ' lands.8 


 9 


 In 1233 the king committed to William de Picheford during pleasure and so long as it pleased Hugh de Aubigny , heir of William earl of Arundel , the manor of La Grave , Suss . , which Hubert de Belhus previously held of the king's bail , with the chattels , stock and corn sown therein.10 This was amplified in the ensuing year by a grant to the same William de Picheford of land in La Grave , late held by William de Fraxino , a Norman , of the fee of Arundel , which the said William previously held of the king's bail.11 In 1238 the land called La Grave , which William de Picheford late held of the Normans ' lands , was committed to John de Gatesden during pleasure , 12 and later in the year the king granted to John de Gatesdene and his heirs the gift which William de Fraxino , a Norman , whom the king had taken into his peace , made to the said John by licence , of a carucate of land in La Grave , which the king had restored to the said William as his inheritance on 21 Nov. instant.13 


 
 
 For entries under the years 1242-1244 relating to this place , see n . 6. In 1246 the king confirmed to the convent of Boxgrove a carucate in the vill of La Grave which the monks had by the gift of John de Gatesden , who had it by the gift of William de Fraxino , a Norman , to be held of the said William and his heirs for 12d . rent and foreign service.14 William de Fraxino gave to the canons of the causeway of Arundel plenary tithe of his assart of Kingesham.15 


 In 1299 Master Roger de la Grave , canon of the church of the Holy Trinity , Chichester , and his successors , had a grant of free warren in Thorney and Martinesgrave , Suss.16 For entries under date 1304 , 1308-9 and 1341 , see n . 6 . 


 
 
 In 1412 John Taverner held 25 librates of land in a plat called Kingsham , land in Groves , Bilsham , Binsted , Barnham and Wal berton and rent in Chichester.17 


 
 
 1. Bk . of Fees , 73 . 


 2. Round , Anct . Charters ( P.R.S. x . ) , 49-52 . 


 3. Red 


 6. R. Lit. 9. Close 


 Bk . 202. 4. Pipe R. 1 Ric . I , p . 213. 5. R. Cancell . 238 . Claus . i . 332. 7. Ibid . i . 562. 8. Excerpt . e R. Fin . i . 105 . R. p . 200. 10. Ibid . 206. 11. Cal . Chart . R. i . 188. 12. Close R. p . 107 . 13. Cal . Chart . R. i . 238 . 14. Ibid . 293. 15. Cat . of Anct . D. v . A. 11537 . 16. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 349 . 17. Feud . Aids , vi . 522 . 


 
 
 XXVI . 


 Earl Roger held Harting , Suss . , in demesne in 1086 , and shortly after gave the church there to St. Martin of Sées.¹ A portion of Chithurst in the hundred of Dumpford , which Morin held of earl Roger in 1086 , afterwards belonged to this fee . 


 3 


 William earl of Arundel gave certain lands ( in Harting ) to Henry Hose ( Hosatus ' ) for 2 fees.2 Henry Hose attested in 1141 a charter of Robert the younger , earl of Nottingham . He , or his son , Henry Hose II , had remission of danegeld in 1154 in Sussex ( 58s . ) , Wiltshire ( 30s . ) , Somerset ( 3s . ) , Berkshire ( 4s . ) and Notting hamshire ( 5s . ) . 4 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 100] ===
 
 
 84 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 6 


 8 


 Henry Hose II gave to the Hospitallers the churches of Aver ham and Winkburn , Notts . , and Roger de Mowbray confirmed the gift.5 He married Avice or Amice , daughter of Adam Tisun , and sister of William Tisun , the two places named above being doubtless Avice's maritagium . He had a younger brother Geoffrey , who returned his carta in 1166 under Wiltshire . A charter of Adam Tisun , Henry Hose and Avice his wife , granting land in Swinton , Yorks . , to St. Oswald's , Nostell , was confirmed during the period 1154-1159 by Roger archbishop of York . " Henry Hose founded a leper hospital at Harting and also founded , before 1169 , the Premonstratensian abbey of Dureford , Suss . He was in possession of Standen , Wilts . , in 1167 10 and lost Littleton , Hants . , about Christmas , 1174.11 Possibly this circumstance was connected with his death , which is said to have occurred in the Holy Land , his testament , sealed with the seal of Joscelin the castellan of Arundel , the queen's brother , being brought to Matthew abbot of Rufford by Hugh Hose , his brother , whilst his body was brought to this country by the said Joscelin.12 Henry Hose ( II ? ) and Geoffrey his son gave to the abbey of Stanley , Wilts . , land in Stapleford , and Hugh Hose gave land in Merecombe ; these gifts being confirmed by Richard I in 1189.13 


 Henry Hose III had livery in 1190 of certain lands in Sussex of which he had been dispossessed by Henry II.14 During the period 1190-1196 he confirmed to the abbey of Dureford the gifts made by Henry his father , founder of the abbey , and he referred in his charter to his wife Clemence , daughter of John de Port , and to her maritagium in the main street of Winchester , to his lands in Harting , Suss . , Standen , Wilts . , and Littleton , Hants.15 He also confirmed to the same house the chapel of Standen , which had been given by his mother Avice.¹ 16 In 1194 he answered for 20s . for I fee in Wiltshire to the scutage for the redemption of King Richard , ¹7 and to the first scutage of Normandy in 1200 for 2 marks . of the scutage of Standen as Henry Hose of Harting.18 It is curious to observe that in 1199 William de Warenne accounted for the scutage of 1 fee in Wiltshire of Henry Hose which he had in his custody.¹ 


 19 


 
 
 In Michaelmas term , 1195 , Henry Hose put in his place Hugh Hose against the abbot of Sées in a plea of the advowson of the church of Harting.20 In Hilary term following he again put in his place Hugh Hose , or Hubert his ( suus ) brother , against the bishop of Chichester in a plea of the churches of Harting and Rogate.21 The bishop had been summoned to answer to Henry for not receiving parsons to those churches , the advowsons of which the said Henry had deraigned against the abbot of Sées , but replied that he had instituted a clerk 7 years before at the presentation of the abbot of Sées ; 22 whereupon Hugh Hose , Henry's attorney , said that the parson was wrongfully instituted against Henry's claim and prohibition.23 The dispute was termin . ated in February , 1196 , by the abbot's acknowledgment of Henry's right to these churches , saving a pension of 100s . to Sées ; for this Henry increased the said pension by 6os . rent from East Harting.24 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 101] ===
 
 
 HARTING 85 


 
 
 Henry appears to have had a brother Geoffrey to whom King Richard on 1 Dec. , 1198 , confirmed his lands of Figheldean with Ablinton , Stapleford and Knighton , Wilts . , the land of Tidcombe and Sutton , Wilts . , and all the lands which Henry Hose his father held.25 This charter was confirmed in 1252 to Henry Hose , kins man and heir of the said Geoffrey.2 


 26 


 
 
 In 1201 Henry Hose III proffered 100 marks for a writ of mort d'ancestor respecting the manor of ' Derinton , ' Wilts . , of which Hugh de Nevill and his wife deforced him , and whereof Hugh Hose , uncle of the said Henry Hose , was seised on the day he died.27 This entry on the Oblata Roll was subsequently cancelled , but the debt was recorded as due at Michaelmas , 1201.28 In 1211 Henry son of Henry Hose passed by fine to the abbot of Rufford land in Averham , which had been in dispute between them , whether the land lay within the bounds mentioned in the charter of William Tisun , uncle of the said Henry.29 


 
 
 In 1208 a mandate was issued for the delivery to Henry Hose of the abbey of Dureford , which was of his fee , and all rents and lands of Hubert Hose his brother which were of his fee . Adam de Port was mainpernor that Henry should be answerable therefor to the king.30 A Hubert Hose was about that time rector of Rogate.31 


 In 1213 Henry Hose IV gave 100 marks to have the lands late of Henry Hose his father in Wiltshire ; his sureties being William earl of Arundel , William de St. John , Engelger de Bohun and William de Feritate.32 He was in arms against the king in 1216 , but upon Henry's accession returned to allegiance and had writs of reinstatement in his lands to the sheriffs of Hampshire , Wilt shire , Berkshire and Nottinghamshire.33 He married Cecily daughter of Emma de Stanton . In 1217 and again in 1221 he had livery of the manor of Eling , Hants . , for which he had king John's charter.34 He was suffering from infirmity in 1231,35 and died by 1235.36 An elder son Henry is mentioned in a Dureford charter , 37 but he appears to have been succeeded by another son , Matthew . Cecily his relict died in 1236 , when Matthew her son had seisin of her lands in Hampshire.38 She held at her decease the vill of Eling.39 


 In 1242-3 Matthew Hose held 3 fees in Harting of the earl of Arundel , 40 and in 1243 the service of these 3 fees was assigned to the dower of the countess of Arundel and in 1244 to the pourparty of Robert de Tateshale.41 In the last - named year Matthew Hose granted and rendered to the abbot of Dureford land in South Moreton , Shalbourn and Sandon , Berks . , Ham and Hungerford , Bucks . , the service of a tenement in Harting , subject to the said tenant's suit to Matthew's hundred of Dumpford and court of Harting , the chapelry of Standen Huse , Wilts . , and £ 4 rent by the hands of John du Plessis from the moiety of the manor of Childerston , Kent ; for which the abbot remitted his right to tenements in Starthorpe ( ) and certain tithes of Harting , and agreed to find a chaplain to minister in the chapel of Standen.42 In 1252 Matthew Hose had a grant of free warren 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 102] ===
 
 
 86 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 in Harting 43 and died in the ensuing year holding the manor of Harting of Robert de Tateshale and leaving Henry his son , aged 13 years.44 Custody of Matthew's heirs was granted to John Maunsel , provost of Beverley , for 60 gold marks , payable by 10 . gold marks yearly , the payments to cease in case Henry the son and heir of Matthew died under age.45 


 
 
 In 1268 there was a plea between Henry son of Matthew Huse of Harting and William Paynel and Matilda his wife touching the manors of Harting , Suss . , Standen , Wilts . and Berks . , Averham , Notts . , 2 fees in Dummer , rent in Abbotstone , and 2 carucates in Eling , Hants . , and land in Tidworth and Knighton , Wilts . , which was settled by an acknowledgment that the manor of Harting was the right of Henry.46 The same year Henry Hose and Robert de Rogate obtained a charter of a fair at Rogate , 47 and 3 years later the same Henry had a grant of market and fair at Harting and free warren in Harting , Suss . , Freefolk , Hants . , Tidworth , Wilts . and Hants . , Standen , Berks . and Wilts . , South Moreton , Berks . , Missenden , Bucks . ( Giffard , n . 62 ) , Chykeswell ( in Brenchley ) , " Chilteston , ' Deane and Stourmouth , Kent.48 Robert prior of Boxgrove procured in 1279 an acknowledgment of his right to a messuage , mill , land & c . in Elvested and East Morden , against John de Camoys and Margaret his wife , a former prior having demised the tenement for life to John de Gatesden . Claims were put in by Henry Huse and the bishop of Exeter.49 


 
 
 Henry Hose died in 1290 holding the manor of Harting of Robert de Tateshale for 3 fees , land in Sussex of Sir John de Cameys , besides other estates in divers counties ; Henry his son was aged 24 years.50 Henry Hose held 3 fees in Harting and Chithurst of Robert de Tateshale in 1304,51 and of Robert son and heir of Robert de Tateshale in 1308,52 which were assigned in the following year to the dower of Joan late the wife of Robert de Tateshale . 53 In 1316 Henry Hose ( Husee ' ) was lord of the hundred of Dumpford and vill of Harting , and joint lord of Pulborough . 54 


 In 1332 Henry Hose died seised of the manor of Harting , held of the heirs of Robert de Tateshale for 1 fee , besides many other estates named above ; Henry his son was aged 30 years . 55 In 1341 this Henry held 3 fees in Harting , Chithurst and Pulborough of Alice late wife of William Bernak , one of the heirs of Tateshale.56 


 
 
 1. Round , Calendar , n . 656. 2. Red Bk . 202. 3. Round , Calendar , n . 582. 4. Pipe R. 2 Hen . II , pass . 5. R. Chart . 16. 6. Red Bk . 245 . 7. Nostell Chartul . 49. 8. Mon. Angl . vi . 938. Before 1164 , when William the king's brother , a witness , died . 9. Ibid . 10. Pipe R. 13 Hen . II , p . 130. 11. Ibid . 21 Hen . II , p . 106. 12. Thoroton , Hist . of Notts . ( ed . Throsby ) , iii . 107. 13. Mon. Anglic . v . 565. 14. Pipe R. 2 Ric . I , Suss . 15. Mon. Anglic . vi . 937. 16. Dureford Chartul . , Cott . MS . Vesp . E. xxiii . f . 13d . H. bishop of Salisbury confirmed ; ibid . f . 23. 17. Red Bk . 89 . 18. Ibid . 120. 19. Pipe R. 1 Jno . no . 13d , Wilts . 20. R. Cur . Regis . 21. Ibid . ( Pipe R. Soc . xxiv . ) , 218. 22. Cf. Round , 


 i . 343 , 349 . Calendar , n . 676. 23. R. Cur . Regis ( Pipe R. Soc . ) , 243 . Feet of F. i . n . 3 . 25. Cal . Chart . R. i . 394. 26. Ibid . Oblat . 177 . 28. R. Cancel . 238. 29. Notts . Feet of F. , 30. R. Lit. Claus . i . IIob . 500 ; R. Lit. Claus . i . 170b . 


 31. Vesp . E. xxiii . f . 21d . 33. R. Lit. Claus . i . 302 . 


 
 
 24. Suss . 27. R. de Mich . 13 Jno . 32. R. de Fin . 34. Ibid . 333 , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 103] ===
 
 
 ALDSWORTH - WEST DEAN , CHILGROVE 87 


 
 
 35. Close R. 541 . 


 36. Ibid . 78. 37. Cott . MS . Vesp . E. xxviii . 38. Excerpt . e R. Fin . i . 304. 39. Cal . Inquis . i . 3 . 40. Testa , 41. Close R. 112 , 249. 42. Suss . Feet of F. i . n . 419 . 43. Cal . Chart . R. i . 393. 44. Cal . Inquis . i . 74. 45. Excerpt . ii . 154 . 46. Suss . Feet of F. ii . n . 741 . 


 222 . 


 49. Suss . Feet of F. ii . n . 916 . iv . 106. 52. Ibid . 260 . I4I - 2 . 55. Cal . Inquis . vii . 


 47. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 88. 48. Ibid . ii . 176 . 50. Cal . Inquis . ii . 473-5 . 51. Ibid . 53. Cal . Close R. 102 . 54. Feud . Aids , v . 333. 56. Ibid . viii . 230 . 


 
 
 479 . f . 16d . 


 
 
 XXVII . 


 Earl Roger's land in Westbourne included Aldsworth . 


 &gt; 


 In the time of Stephen the earl of Arundel gave to Robert de Rupe certain land for fee.¹ William earl of Arundel gave to Ralph de la Roche the land of Aldsworth ( in Westbourne ) , land of Elbrugg and land of Eddesden , to hold by rendering a hunting spear at Martinmas.2 The witnesses indicate a date early in the reign of Henry II . In 1189 Richard de Rupe owed £ 22 19s . 4d . for 6 years ' rent of 70s . 8d . worth of land of the honor of Arundel , ³ and 106s . for 1 year's rent in Westbourne ( * Burna ' ) and 70s . 8d . of new farm . For a long period nothing further occurs respecting this tenement . 


 
 
 + 


 
 
 In 1270 exemption for life was granted , at the instance of Robert de la Rogate , to Richard de la Roche from being put on assizes and juries . In 1292 Richard de la Roche acknowledged that the manor of Aldsworth was the right of John de Alta Ripa who demised it to Richard for life , with remainder to John and Cecily his wife and their issue , in default to the right heirs of Richard . " Apparently Cecily was daughter and heir of Richard de la Roche . In 1291 Richard granted to the same John and Cecily his wife the manor of Bykewell , Suss . " 


 
 
 In 1412 the manor of Aldsworth was in the possession of the earl of Arundel , and Bykewell in that of Alice D'Autrey.8 


 
 
 1. Red Bk . 202 . 4. Ibid . 212-3 . 7. Ibid . n . 1066 . 


 
 
 2. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 169. 3. Pipe R. 1 Ric . I , p . 13 . 5. Cal . Pat . 450 . 6. Suss . Feet of F. ii . n . 1071 . 8. Feud . Aids , vi . 520 , 523 . 


 
 
 XXVIII . 


 West Dean and Chilgrove were included in earl Roger's manor of Singleton , where in 1086 Pain held 1 hide , William I hide , and Geoffrey 2 hides . 


 3 


 The earl of Arundel gave certain land to William Rufus for fee.¹ From Easter , 1184 , Hugh Esturmi had land in the honor of Arundel of the yearly rent of 100s . , late of Gilbert de Salnervill , in ward by the king with the heirs , 2 and so down to Michaelmas , 1189 , ³ if not later . In 1189 William Rufus owed 6 years ' farm of land of the honor of Arundel at 5s . yearly which had been let to him to farm.ª In the year 1200 Henry de Westdene acknowledged that I virgates in Westdean and Chilgrove were the right of Peter Blund.5 In 1216 the vill of Churton , Wilts . , was assigned to Peter Blund in consideration of arrears and liveries due to him.6 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 104] ===
 
 
 88 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 7 


 He returned to allegiance in 1217 and recovered possession of his lands in Wiltshire , Sussex , Buckinghamshire and in the constablewick of Windsor . In 1233 Thomas Blund of Buckinghamshire and Wiltshire , and in 1234 Peter Blund of Buckinghamshire , were pardoned for being in arms with the earl Marshal . & 


 In 1244 Thomas le Blund and Starius de Sandrevill held fee in Westdean and Chilgrove , the service of which was assigned to the dower of the countess of Arundel and to the pourparty of Robert de Tateshale.9 


 
 
 John le Chyld , younger , of Erham , who is named in 1276,10 appears to have succeeded to the Sandrevill portion of this fee . In 1288 Thomas de Sandrevill and Alice his wife were parties to a fine of land in the suburbs of Chichester.11 


 
 
 In 1304 John le Blount held fee in Chilgrove and West Dean of Robert de Tateshale , and John le Child of Chilgrove held fee in Chilgrove of the same Robert.12 In 1308 the same tenants held these fees of Robert son and heir of Robert de Tateshale , ¹³ and in the ensuing year these tenements were assigned to the respective pourparties of Thomas de Cailli and Joan de Driby.14 


 In 1339 Thomas Child held of William de Bernak , and in 1341 of Alice late wife of the said William , fee in Chilgrove.15 West Dean was not mentioned . 


 
 
 1. Red Bk . 202 . p . 213. 4. Pipe R. I Lit. Claus . i . 277 . 10. Suss . Feet of F. ii . 107 . 13. Ibid . 260 , 265 . viii . 164 , 230 . 


 
 
 2. Pipe R. 30 Ric . I , p . 13 . 7. Ibid . 299b . n . 847. 11 . 


 
 
 Hen . II , p . 127. 3. Ibid . 1 Ric . I , 5. Suss . Feet of F. i . n . 35. 6. R. 8. Close R. 259 , 437 · 9. Ibid . 249 . Ibid . n . 1023. 12. Cal . Inquis . iv . 15. Cal . Inquis . 


 
 
 14. Cal . Close R. 100 . 


 
 
 XXIX . 


 Certain clerks in 1086 held 5 hides in Preston Candover , Hants . , of earl Roger . 


 Henry I confirmed to the priory of Southwyke the manor of Preston Candover , Hants . , in which were 5 hides and I virgate , which William de Pont de L'Arche gave of his demesne.¹ In the time of Stephen the earl of Arundel had the service of I knight in ' Candewra ' in Hampshire.2 In 1181 the receiver of the honor of Arundel accounted for 27s . of the issues of Candover , late of Ralph son of Richard.3 In the ensuing year he similarly accounted for 70s . of the issues of the same land.¹ 


 
 
 6 


 In 1194 and 1199 Robert de Watevill was a visor in Surrey , 5 and in 1207 he was taking steps to recover a debt in Hants . " In 1217 Hamon de Watevill returned to allegiance and recovered possession of lands in Surrey , Essex and Buckinghamshire . " In 1225 and 1229 Robert de Watevill was involved in a plea against the abbot of Croix St. Leufroy touching 1 carucate in Esher , Surrey.8 In 1237 he was one of the assessors of the thirtieth in Surrey , and in the ensuing year his land , which was pledged to Abraham the Jew of Berkhampstead , was ordered to be valued.¹0 Robert de Watevill was said to be lord of the manor of Stevenbury in Preston Candover and granted a chantry therein to the priory of 


 
 
 9 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 105] ===
 
 
 PRESTON CANDOVER - LA WYKE - FISHBOURNE 89 


 
 
 Southwick.11 In 1242-3 Robert held fee in Esher of the abbot of Chertsey , 12 and in 1243 a mandate was issued to the keeper of the lands late of Hugh de Aubigny , earl of Arundel , to permit the executors of the late earl's will to have the administration of the lands of Robert de Whatevill in Candover.13 


 Peter de Watevill was a party with Agnes his wife to fines of land in Chalneye , Pachynesham and Billingshurst , Suss . , during the period 1285-1290.14 Matilda de Watevill had lands in Surrey in 1289.15 


 
 
 In 1316 Thomas de Cailli , one of the coheirs of Tateshale , died seised of a rent of 29s . 6d . in Preston Candover , receivable from William de Horwode . He held the said rent with his two coparceners of the Tateshale inheritance.16 In 1322 John de Someri died seised of 2 carucates in Candover held by William de Horwode for 50s . 5d . rent.17 William de Horwode , late king's yeoman , 18 died in 1349 , a few days before his wife Christina ; his son Thomas predeceased him , but left issue William his son , aged 7 years . The inquests taken after their respective deaths prove that the manor of Stevenbury was not held of the honor of Arundel.19 


 
 
 P. 146 . 


 242 , 252 . 


 1. Mon. Anglic . vi . 244. 2. Red Bk . 202. 3. Pipe R. 27 Hen . I , 4. Ibid . 28 Hen . II , p . 91 . 5. R. Cur . Regis , i . , ii . pass . 6. R. de Fin . 405. 7. R. Lit. Claus . i . 324b . 8. Ibid . ii . 82b ; Close R. 9. Ibid . 547. 10. Ibid . III . 11. Add . MS . 33280 ; V. C. H. Hants . iii . 3736. 12. Testa , 220b . 13. Close R. 105. 14. Suss . Feet of F. ii . pass . 16. Cal . Inquis . vi . 20 . vi . 256 . 18. Cal . Pat . R. 1317 , p . 634 ; Cal . Fine R. ii . 71 ff . Inquis . ix . 185 . 


 15. Cal . Close R. 40 . 


 17. Ibid . 


 19. Cal . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 XXX . 


 In 1233 Walter de Dayvill gave £ 10 for the custody of the land late of Robert le Bret in La Wyke , until Alice daughter and heir of Robert was of age to inherit by the law of England ; which wardship belonged to the king by reason of wardship of Hugh de Aubigny.¹ Emicine late wife of the said Robert was niece of Walter de Dayvill.2 


 1. Excerpt . Fin . i . 242 . 


 
 
 2. Close R. 184 . 


 
 
 XXX ( 1 ) . 


 The abbey of St. Martin of Sées had in 1086 a burgess in Arundel and held of earl Roger in alms Fishbourne , Suss . , as 6 hides , a moiety of Climping as II hides with the church , and Gate , now Eastergate , as 2 hides . 


 
 
 William held of earl Roger Littlehampton as I hide . 


 Roger Baolt , a knight of earl Roger , gave to St. Martin's in 1093 tithe of a ploughland at Arundel . ' Earl Roger had prior to the making of the survey given the vills of Gate and Fishbourne , 40s . from the tithes of Stoughton and Littlehampton , and the church of Harting for a brother of the countess Mabel who was made a monk in that monastery ; after the death of the countess 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 106] ===
 
 
 90 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 Mabel ( 1082 ) the earl gave for her soul a moiety of Climping.2 After the date of the survey earl Roger added the vill of Little hampton.3 Norman the huntsman gave the tithe of his land , with the consent of the earl and his sons ; he held of William de Warenne land parcel of the great manor of Rodwell , Suss . , and gave tithe of Halcombe to Lewes priory . Earl Roger also gave to St. Martin's , with the consent of his son Hugh , the church of Diddlebury , Salop , and land in Beddingham , Suss.5 


 4 


 
 
 1. Round , Cal . of Docs . , France , n . 660 . n . 656. 4. Ibid . V. C. H. Suss . i . 436n . 


 
 
 2. Ibid . n . 657 . 


 3. Ibid . 5. Round , op . cit . n . 656 . 


 
 
 XXX ( 2 ) . 


 The abbey of Troarn held of earl Roger in 1086 in alms Runcton , Suss . , as 8 hides ; in Bosmere hundred , Hants . , 5 hides in Hayling ; in Horsley , Gloucs . , 10 hides of the king's gift ( sic ) ; in Up Waltham , Suss . , 2 hides . 


 
 
 During the first few years of his reign Henry I confirmed to St. Martin's , Troarn , Runcton , Hayling ( Haringei ' ) and Horsley of the gift of earl Roger , 3 hides at Up Waltham which Herlewin gave , tithes of Graffham and Strettington ( n . 25 ) , 2 houses in Chichester , tithes of Merston which Oismelin gave ( n . 4 ( 1 ) ) , the church of Mundham which Turstin de Fontanis gave , tithe of Nutbourne which Ralph Bastard gave and tithe of Offham which Ascio ( vel Atso ) gave ( n . 25 ) .¹ 


 
 
 1. Cal . Chart . R. iv . 282 ; Round , Cal . of Docs . , France , n . 470. Cf. Bruton Chartul . , n . 324 . 


 
 
 XXX ( 3 ) . 


 The abbey of the nuns of Almanesche held of earl Roger Lyminster , Suss . , as 13 hides , of which Roger ( Baolt ? ) held part of the said abbey ; in Climping a moiety of the vill as II hides , held of the earl in alms . 


 
 
 In 1178 pope Alexander confirmed to the abbess and nuns of Almanesche , whose abbey was of the foundation of earl Roger , the churches of Climping , Ford , Poling , Rustington and Lyminster ( ‘ Nunmenistre ' ) , and of the founder's gift the manor of Climping , Ford , Preston ( Presintone ' ) , Poling and the moiety of ' Illesart ' with all things pertaining to those vills.¹ 


 1. Mon. Anglic . vi . 1033 . 


 
 
 XXX ( 4 ) . ¦ 


 Turald nephew of Wigot held in 1086 of earl Roger in Penton Mewsey , Hants . , 5 hides , in Houghton Drayton , Hants . , 21 hides , in Hampton Maisey , Gloucs . , 5 hides . ; and elsewhere . 


 
 
 Henry I appears to have given the lands which Turald had held of earl Roger to his natural son , Robert , so that they became members of the honor of Gloucester ( n . 11 ) . They formed part 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 107] ===
 
 
 WARNINGCAMP 91 


 
 
 of the feudal tenement held of William earl of Gloucester in 1166 by Robert de Maisi by the service of 11 knights ' fees.¹ 


 1. Red Bk . 288 . 


 
 
 XXXI . 


 Nigel held Warningcamp , Suss . , of earl Roger as 4 hides , of which Rafin held 3 hides of Nigel . 


 
 
 In the next century lands in Lurgashall , Egdean and Fittle worth appear to have been held by the family of Hauterive ( ‘ de Alta Ripa ' ) of certain tenants of the honor of Petworth . Robert de Alta Ripa attested the charter of Joscelin de Arundell , brother of queen Adeliza , granting to Lewes priory the church of Burton , Suss .; another charter of about the same date was attested by Robert de Alta Ripa and William his son.¹ Robert himself granted to the priory of Lewes the church of Egdean ( ' Bletcham ' ) , the gift being confirmed by the above - named Joscelin the queen's brother ; 2 and William de Alta Ripa gave to the same priory tithes of Egdean ( Bletteham ' ) , which king Stephen confirmed.3 Among those of the honor of Arundel who obtained remission of scutage in 1187 was William de Alta Ripa of 54s . ( in respect of 21 fees ) . He was a benefactor of Dureford abbey.5 About Easter , 1189 , the same William had acquired by fine £ 9 12s . worth of land in Helingham ' ( that is , Hardham , Suss . , where William de Alta Ripa founded an Augustinian priory ) , in the honor of Petworth , where he held other lands by demise . " The land in Hardham had been held by Joscelin nephew of the castellan . In 1205 there was a fine between William de Alta Ripa and William Fitz - Alan in respect of the church of Hamwell , Hants . 8 


 4 


 6 


 In 1216 William de Alta Ripa's land of Kemberton , Salop , was committed to Thomas de Erdinton , custodian of the Fitz Alan fee , but in the following year William returned to allegiance and had restoration of his Salop estate . In 1227 William de Alta Ripa , a knight , was visor in several Sussex pleas ; 10 in 1233 he had the custody of Arundel castle ¹¹ during the minority of earl Hugh , and in 1241 was party to a fine about land in Lurgashall.12 In 1244 the service of William de Alta Ripa for fee in Warning camp was assigned to the pourparty of Roger de Somery and Nicholaa his wife.13 Two years later he made an agreement as owner of the advowson of a mediety of the church of North Marden.14 


 William de Alta Ripa died before 1247 and on 5 January in that year Andrew his son and heir did fealty for 2 and fee which 1448 his father held of William de Percy , whose son and heir was then in the king's custody.15 Andrew de Alta Ripa attested a charter at Petworth on Easter Eve , 1307 ; 16 but the earlier Andrew's successor appears to have been John de Alta Ripa , who had respite of knighthood in 1259.17 He had been party in 1255 to a fine of land in Fittleworth , Suss.18 


 
 
 William de Alta Ripa of Sussex occurs later . He was pardoned in 1266 for his participation in the late disturbances and in the ensuing year had restitution at the hands of William la Zouche 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 108] ===
 
 
 92 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 of his lands in accordance with the award of Kenilworth , and respite of knighthood at the instance of the same William.19 


 In 1279 William de Alta Ripa had a grant of market and fair at Egdean , and of free warren in Egdean , Petworth and Fittle worth.20 In the same year ( 1279 ) it was presented that he sold wood in his woodland called Le Hoke in the forest of Arundel without licence 21 and claimed liberty by the charter of Henry II of chasing fox and hare in his demesne lands in Sussex , Hants . and Salop . This liberty the knights of the county declared that he rightly possessed . 22 Five years earlier he held an interest in land in Lurgashall of the fee of William La Zuche ( n . 1 ) .23 In 1280 William de Alta Ripa acknowledged that the church of Lurgas hall was the right of John prior of Lewes.24 During the period 1295-1301 he held important commissions in Sussex and Surrey.25 In 1296 justices were appointed to try those who broke the parks . of William de Alta Ripa at Barlavington , Lurgashall , and Flaxham , Sussex , and carried away the deer.26 In 1296 he held of Hugh Luvel fee in East Hampnett , which had been given to his mother in frank marriage.27 In 1302 he had the amercements of his men in the honor of Petworth of the assize of bread and ale.28 


 3 


 
 
 From the pleading of 15 Edward III cited below it appears that William was son of Andrew de Alta Ripa by Alice his wife , and that his own son John left a daughter and heir Eva.29 According to Elwes William died in 1304 , and John had died before him.30 Eva married one Roger de Shelvestrode ( living 1308 ) 31 and had a son John.32 Then she married ( after 1310 ) William Paynel , who in 1316 had licence to alienate in mortmain to the canons of Hardham his manor of Cokeham , Suss . , and land in Lancing ; 33 and in the same year was returned as lord of Bar lavington and Woolavington and joint lord of Warningcamp , Graffham and Heyshott.34 A parcel of land was held of him in 1317 by Eva D'Autry by the service of a bolt ( petibulum ' ) yearly.35 William Paynel died in 1317 holding inter alia a tenement in Duncton of the heir of Henry de Percy by service of enclosing a perch of paling about the park of Petworth ; John Paynel , his brother and heir , was aged 50 years.36 This John died in 1319 holding two - thirds of a carucate in Pinkhurst , Suss . , of the earl of Arundel and the other third part of Sir Ralph de Camoys ; Edward de St. John and Eva his wife , sometime the wife of William Paynel above - named , held a third part of the lands as Eva's dower ; Matilda , daughter of the said John , whom Nicholas de Upton had married , aged 30 , was his heir.37 In 1320 certain feoffees had licence to grant two parts of certain of the possessions late of William Paynel in Woolbeding and elsewhere to Aymer de Valence , earl of Pembroke , and John de Hastinges , and similarly the reversion of a third part of the same which Edward de St. John and Eva his wife held in dower.38 


 
 
 In 1321 certain persons were pardoned for abducting the said . Eva from Cowdray by Midhurst after the decease of William Paynel her husband , and Edward de St. John had been pardoned for marrying her without the king's licence.39 Margaret , first 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 109] ===
 
 
 WARNINGCAMP - WADE COURT 93 


 
 
 wife of William Paynel , had previously been wife of John de Camoys.40 In 1323-4 Henry de Nevill acquired for his life two messuages & c . in Tollington , Petworth , Duncton and Lutgarshale , from Edward de St. John and Alan de Islesfold ; the remainder was to John son of Roger de Shelvestrode and his heirs , in default to Eva lately wife of the said Roger.41 


 
 
 In 1334 Edward de St. John complained that certain persons . of Petworth had broken his parks at Beaugenet , Barlavington , Flaxham and Lurgashall , hunted there and taken deer , hares , rabbits , partridges and pheasants.42 Edward de St. John and Eva his wife in 1341-2 sued William de Alta Ripa for land in Boxgrove which they averred Richard Lovel had in the time of Edward I granted to Andrew de Hauterive and Alice his wife , and which should have descended through their son William and John his son to the said Eva , as daughter of John.43 Eva died on 16 August 1354 holding Barlavington with Beaugenet and Ludgarshall of Henry de Percy by 2 knights ' fees , to which her son John de St. John , aged 22 , was heir ; other estates in Surrey and Sussex as dower of her previous husband William Paynel ; and Oakhanger and Empshott , Hants . , which would descend to Roger son of John de Shilverstrode , then 20 years of age.44 This Roger , heir of Eva de St. John , proved his age in 1355.45 


 
 
 1. Mr. Eyton citing Dugdale's MS . ( Ashmol . Lib . ) , xxxix . f . 62. 2. Cott . MS . Vesp . F. xv . ff . 134 , 134d . 3. Round , Calendar , p . 510. 4. Pipe R. 33 Hen . II , p . III . 5. Vesp . E. xxiii . f . 34. 6. Mon. Anglic . vi . 307 . 7. Pipe R. 1 Ric . I , pp . 214-5 . 8. R. de Fin . 291 . 


 i . 281 , 315. 10. Suss . Feet of F. i . nos . 202–3 . 


 i . 250 . 


 12. Ibid . n . 392 . 


 13. Close R. 251 . 


 22. Ibid . 757 . 


 n . 427. 15. Excerpt . e R. Fin . ii . 4. 16. Percy Chartul . 363. 17. Pipe R. , Salop , 43 Hen . III . 18. Suss . Feet of F. ii . 14. 19. Cal . Fine R. 594 ; ibid . 1267 , pp . 122-3 , 158. 20. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 219. 21. Placit . de quo war . 752b . 23. Suss . Feet of F. ii . n . 831 . 24. Ibid . n . 908 . 25. Cal . Pat . R. 1292-1301 , pass . 26. Ibid . 258 . 27. Cal . Inquis . ii . 490 . 28. Ibid . iv . 51. 29. Wrottesley , Pedigrees from Plea Rolls , 40. 30. Castles , & c . of West Sussex , 173. 31. Sussex Fines , iii . 4. 32. Ibid . 53 . 33. Cal . Pat . R. 558. 34. Feud . Aids , V. 141-3 . 35. Cal . Inquis . vi . 18. 36. Cal . Inquis . vi . 18. 37. Ibid . IIO . 38. Cal . Pat . R. 415. 39. Ibid . 559-60 . 40. Ibid . 1303 , p . 206 ; 41. Sussex Fines , iii . 53. 42. Cal . Pat . R. Pedigrees from Plea Rolls , 40 , citing De Banco 44. Cal . Inquis , X. 164 . 45. Ibid . 238 . 


 
 
 Cal . Close R. 1301 , P. 494 . 64 , 135. 43. Wrottesley , R. Hil . 15 Edw . III , m . 104d . 


 
 
 9. R. Lit. Claus . 11. Excerpt . e R. Fin . 14. Suss . Feet of F. i . 


 
 
 XXXII . 


 For earl Roger's holding in Stoughton see n . 17. It is uncertain in what manor Wade ( Court ) , Hants . , was included in the Survey . In 1199 Juliana de Wade attorned in her place William de Arundel , her son , in a plea of dower in Hampshire against Nicholas son of Robert and Hilaria his mother.¹ In 1202 custody of land ( in an unknown place ) which king Richard gave to Henry de la Wade was delivered to Geoffrey de Hauvill , and 2 years later the land of Wade which Juliana de Wade sometime held was granted to the earl of Arundel ; similarly the land of ' Bloneworth , ' now Blendworth , Hants . , was to be delivered to the earl if it were of 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 110] ===
 
 
 94 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 C 


 
 
 his fee.2 Romin Hospinel succeeded to this land and in 1205 gave a carucate in Wade to Richard Falconer in marriage with his daughter Agnes.3 Roger Tyrel ( n . 23 ) in 1199 granted a toft in Catherington ( next Blendworth ) to William de Arundel , son and heir of Juliana de Wade.4 


 
 
 10 


 In 1244 the service of John Rumyn of fee in Northwood , Suss . , was assigned to the pourparty of Roger de Somery and Nicholaa his wife.5 Sir John Rumyn attested a charter of William abbot of St. Martin's , Troarn , of land in Hayling , Hants . , in or before 1271.6 In 1272 John son of John Romyn demised a messuage , mill and 2 virgates ( possibly in Wade ) to a tenant . " 


 In 1304 John Romeyn held 3 fees in Nutbourne , Up Marden and Burpham ( see n . 20 ) . This small fee in Northwood lay in Stoughton parish , and in January , 1314 , William Rumyn or Romyn died holding the manor of Northwood of Edmund earl of Arundel for 


 
 
 fee ; Henry his son was aged 1 year and 9 weeks . He also held a tenement at La Wade , Hants . , of the earl of Arundel by the service of coming to the castle of Arundel with a sparrow - hawk at Michaelmas and keeping the same throughout the year at the earl's charges . Thomas Romeyn and Juliana his wife had a grant of free warren in Stockwell and Clapham , Surrey , in 1310.9 


 John Romyn of Sussex was named in 1324.10 Henry Romeyn died in 1349 holding tenements in Northwood , par . of Stoghton , of Richard earl of Arundel for fee ; the manor of La Wade , Hants . , partly of the earl of Arundel as above and partly of others ; Edmund his son was aged 6 years.11 


 
 
 1 10 


 
 
 1. R. Cur . Reg . ii . 34 . 


 2. R. Lit. Claus . i . 1b ; R. Liberate , 26 , 99 . 3. Feet of F .; V. C. H. Hants . iii . 1246 . 4. Feet of F .; ibid . 95 . 5. Close R. 251 . 6. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 161. 7. Feet of F .; V. C. H. 8. Cal . Inquis . v . 246 . 9. Cal . Chart . R. III , 134 . 


 Hants . iii . 136b . 10. Cal . Close R. 306 . 


 11. Cal . Inquis . ix . 147 . 


 
 
 XXXIII . 


 Robert son of Gerold had hide and Ranulf Flamine [ Flambart ] » I hide and I virgate in Funtley , in Titchfield , Hants . , in 1086 . 


 4 


 The family of Hauvill , noted as the royal falconers , held land here of the honor of Arundel . In 1170 William de Hauvill purchased falcons for Reginald the king's son , ¹ and is named 2 years later as a crown official in Hampshire.2 In 1185 and sub sequent years Walter de Hauvill of Hallingbury , Essex , 3 kept the king's hawks at Winchester . He or another Walter kept the king's falcons in Hampshire during the period 1214-1220.5 In the last named year Geoffrey de Hauvill , named in the last section under date 1202 , obtained land in Bladon , Oxon . , which his uncle Walter de Hauvill held for his support in the king's service ; and in 1221 he held Milcott , Warws . " 


 
 
 In 1231 the king granted to Geoffrey de Hauvill that if his wife Joan survived him she might hold the land in Milcott which he had of the bail of King John . She held this land in 1246.9 In 1232 Reginald de Hauvill , brother of Geoffrey , had a grant for life of 


 8 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 111] ===
 
 
 FUNTLEY , DRAYTON 95 


 
 
 the reversion of the land of Bladon which Geoffrey held of the king's bail.10 Geoffrey was deceased prior to 1242 , when Bladon was in the king's hands.¹ 


 11 


 
 
 13 


 Gilbert de Hauvill , who was living in 1240 , held land in Halling bury for life only ; 12 he had lost it prior to December , 1240.1 Possibly he was kinsman of Henry de Hauvill of Lynn , Norf . , the king's falconer , who had charge of the king's goshawks , girfalcons and other birds of Norway in and before 1230 , to whom many writs were directed respecting the royal falcons.14 Both Henry and Gilbert were living in 1249.15 In 1257 wardship of the land and rent in Norfolk , which descended to the heir of Henry de Hauvill after Henry's decease ( ? in 1253 ) by the death of Ralph de Hauvill and Peter de Hauvill , was committed to William de Renham.16 Prior to his decease Henry had enfeoffed his son Thomas of his land and rent in Haconby and the vill of St. Botolph ( Boston ) , Lincs . , Dunton and Renham , Norf.17 This line con tinued for several generations . 


 
 
 19 


 Hugh de Hauvill , apparently another royal falconer , was deceased in 1232 , John de Erlham , son of Ralph de Erlham , being his heir.18 Hugh was described as John's uncle ( avunculus ) .¹ In 1238 another Hugh de Hauvill had land in Snitterby ( now Blakeney ) and Tuddenham , Norf . , which was then in pledge of Jewry.20 


 
 
 In 1242-3 , Hugh de Hoivill held fee in Fontley of ancient feoffment of the earl of Arundel.21 At the same date the prior of Southwick ( Sulwyk ) held similarly fee in West Boarhunt , Hants . , and Roger de Morlay and Geoffrey de Beaumont similarly held fee in Drayton in Farlington.22 In 1243 the service of these persons of I fee was assigned to the dower of the countess of Arundel and the year following the service of these three tenements in ' Funtele , Westburinton ' ( sic ) and Brinton ' ( sic ) was assigned to the pourparty of Roger de Somery and Nicholaa his wife . 23 


 Ι 


 36 


 6 


 It was found by inquest taken in 1251 that Hugh brother of Geoffrey de Hoyvill then held in the vill of Funtley fee of the countess of Arundel , who held it in dower ; that Richard de Hoyvill sometime held that land , after whose death it descended to Geoffrey his son ; that Philip , the middle brother of the said Geoffrey and Hugh , was of the allegiance of the King of France , was never in possession of the land and died before the said Geoffrey ; and no ancestor of theirs ever forfeited the land whereby it ought to be the king's escheat.24 In 1256 Hugh de Hoyvill attested a deed relating to land in Portland , Hants . ; 25 and 2 years later he had exemption for life from being put on assizes and the like.26 1259 he was charged with over loading the common of La Rugge , Hants.27 


 In 


 
 
 In 1266 Philip de Hoyvill had letters of protection to hear the king's award ; he had been in the Isle of Axholme with Simon de Montefort the younger.28 He was sheriff of Surrey in 1281 , held various commissions in the southern counties , being one of the justices for delivery of Southampton gaol in 1292,29 and in 1294 had a grant of free warren in Funtley and Frogmore , Hants.30 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 112] ===
 
 
 96 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 He was sheriff of Hampshire in 1306 , and in 1309 held of Richard de St. Valery the manor of Rofford , Oxon . , jointly with Mary his wife and Margaret their daughter for their lives.31 Mary late wife of Philip de Hauvill held land in 1334 in Little Sombourne , Hants . , by the demise of John de Farlyngton , late lord of the manor of Ashley , Hants.³2 


 In 1316 William de Hoyvill was one of the 3 lords of Funtley.33 His kinship to Philip does not appear . In 1324 he was of Hampshire.34 


 
 
 In 1346 William de Hauvill held fee in Funtley , formerly Philip de Hauvill's.35 This family used the form Hoyvill . ' 


 4 


 36 


 To return to Drayton , which may have been a member of earl Roger's manor of Boarhunt , where a knight held I hide in 1086 . Geoffrey de Beaumont was a tenant of the Richmond fee in 1230 , and plaintiff in a suit in 1235 touching land in Shawell , Leics.37 Roger de Merlay was one of those commissioned to view the king's castles in Hampshire in 1241,38 and at his death in 1250 he held a moiety of the vill of Drayton by Farlington for life of the king's gift , as of the escheat of the Normans ' lands , of the earl of Arundel for fee ; Mary his daughter and Hugh de Turbervill ( seneschal of Gascony ) being his next heirs.39 In 1269 Geoffrey de Beaumont and Richard de Saunford attested a charter relating to East Cosham.40 Richard de Saunford held at his death in 1290 a messuage in Drayton of the king for fee ; Thomas his son was aged 24 years . In 1316 Thomas Sanford and John Beumunde were lords of Drayton in Farlington . " 42 For further information respecting these tenements see The Victoria History of Hampshire , iii . 144 , 149–50 . 


 41 


 
 
 1. Pipe R. 16 Hen . II , p . 15. 2. Ibid . 18 Hen . II , p . 78. 3. Testa , 267 , 276. 4. Pipe R. 31 Hen . II , p . 215 . 5. R. Lit. Claus . i . 343b et pass . 6. Ibid . 2636 , 411. 7. Ibid . 483b . Cf. Testa , 107 . 8. Pat . R. 433. 9. Close R. 408 ; Cal . Misc . Inq . i . 578. 10. Pat . R. 478. 11. Close R. 415 . 12. Cal . Pat . R. 240 . 13. Close R. 255 . 14. Ibid . 1230 , PP . 353 ff .; 1236 , p . 300. 15. Ibid . 78 , 168 . 16. Cal . Pat . R. 545 . 17. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 169. Cf. Cal . Inquis . i . 72 ff . 18. Close R. 54 . 19. Ibid . 1235 , p . 213 . 20. Ibid . 112 , 363 . 21. Testa , 2316 . 22. Ibid . 23. Close R. 112 , 252 . 24. Cal . Inquis . i . 56 . 25. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 9. 26. Cal . Pat . R. 613. 27. Abbrev . Placit . 147b . 28. Cal . Pat . R. 538. 29. Cal . Close R. 1292 , p . 222. 30. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 436 . 31. Cat . of Anct . D. ii . A. 3195. 32. Cal . Pat . R. 551. 33. Feud . Aids , ii . 308. 34. Cal . Close R. 306. 35. Feud . Aids , ii . 336. 36. Pat . R. 381. 37. Close R. 327. 38. Ibid . 346. 39. Cal . Inquis . i . 55 ; Excerpt . e R. Fin . ii . 94 . 40. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 124. 41. Cal . Inquis . ii . 460 . 42. Feud . Aids , ii . 320 . 


 
 
 · 


 
 
 XXXIV . 


 Sired in 1086 held Nytimber , in Warblington , Hants . , of earl Roger ; the abbey of Troarn held 5 hides ( in Hayling Island ) ¹ of the same earl . 


 1 


 
 
 In 1242-3 Hugh Sturmi , Roger Falconer and William Martel held 2 hides in the vill of Nytimber of the earl of Arundel of ancient feoffment by the service of falconry ; the prior of Rungeton held 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 113] ===
 
 
 NYTIMBER - EAST AND WEST PRESTON 97 


 
 
 4 hides in Hayling of ancient feoffment of the same earl ; and the same earl held land called La Bunthe which paid 12s . when a scutage ( of 40s . ) ran.2 In 1251 William Falconer of Wade released land and rent in Nytimber to John the parson of Warblington.3 


 In 1316 John le Boteller and Henry Romyn ( n . 32 ) were joint lords of the vill of Nytimber.4 


 
 
 1. Round , Calendar , nos . 470 , 480. 2. Testa , 231b . V. C. H. Hants . iii . 136b . 4. Feud . Aids , ii . 319 . 


 
 
 3. Feet of F .; 


 
 
 XXXV . 


 Robert held of earl Roger in 1086 in East and West Preston by Arundel 7 hides . 


 
 
 This was presumably Robert son of Tetbald and the gift to the priory of Lewes of tithe of Preston ¹ may have been his . No evidence of the possible connexion of the family of Toeni with these places has been found . In 1168 the sheriff of Sussex accounted for 2 marks for the fee of Ralph de Toeni of the knights which the same earl ( of Arundel ) claimed , but Ralph de Toeni denied , and in 1172 the same sheriff accounted for 40s . of the knights of Ralph de Toeni in his bailiwick for the scutage of Ireland . It is sug gested that the family of Millieres or Milliers held these fees of Toeni . Hugh de Milleres of Norfolk was named in 1130 . Humphrey de Milliers , who was sewer of William earl of Arundel early in the reign of Henry II , ª held in 1166 1 fee of new feoffment of William de Avranches , and in 1177 he accounted in Northamp tonshire for a crown debt of £ 100 due in connexion with a dispute between him and Alan la Zuche . Humphrey was still liquidating the debt in 1189. In 1179 the keeper of the honor of Arundel accounted for the issues for 3 years of Preston , late the land of Humphrey de Milliers , and he accounted for these issues down to 1185 , in which year the keeper of the honor claimed allowance of £ 7 14s . 4d . for 18 oxen , 4 working horses , 250 sheep , 8 sows and 2 boars for restocking the lands of Offham ( n . 6 ) and Preston , to the use of Jordan the seneschal of the duke of Saxony.s In the ensuing years there is no reference to the Milliers land in Preston , but the keeper of the honor accounted yearly at least as late as 1189 for 30s . from the land late of William de Perreham in Preston.⁹ 


 7 


 
 
 I 


 In 1201 Roger de Toeni owed 40s . in Sussex in respect of each of the 2nd and 3rd scutages of Richard I , 10 and in the ensuing year Jueta de Preston released to William de Milliers , the tenant , her claim in 1 fee in Preston , for which he granted to her tenements in the same vill . " William de Milliers appears to have been a Norman , and to have had sons , William , Roger ( ? ) and Master Humphrey . He was accounting in 1201 12 for the balance of the fine originally due from Humphrey de Milliers in 1177 , as above . He was taken prisoner at Northampton in 1215 , and delivered to William earl of Arundel.13 In 1222 William de Millers , the younger , was keeper of the Northamptonshire lands of William his father.14 


 Η 


 
 
 III . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 114] ===
 
 
 98 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 In 1237 Master Humphrey de Millers , brother and heir of William de Millers , acknowledged that carucate in West Preston was the right of Reiner prior of Tortintun by the gift of William de Milliers . his brother ; for this the prior demised the land to Master Humphrey for life for £ 6 rent and bound himself to find 2 canons to celebrate for the soul of Humphrey , his successors and predecessors.15 He was prebendary of Chichester from 1222 to his death in 1241 , when his lands in Northamptonshire were taken into the king's hands , because the heirs were in Normandy.16 


 In the last - named year Felicia de Milers gave 100 marks to have the lands in Preston , late of Master Humphrey , so that she should not alienate them , and to satisfy John Maunsel for the corn sown there and at Overstone , Northants.17 That year the manor of Preston had been let to farm to John Maunsel for £ 15 20d . , as the land late of Humphrey de Millers.18 The estates of this family in Norfolk will be described at n . 69 . 


 In 1244 John Maunsel had a gift of 10 oaks from the wood of the bishopric of Chichester for building a stable at Preston.19 It appears that Felicia de Millers , a Norman , gave the manor of Preston to John Maunsell , clerk , a member of the king's household , and the king confirmed the gift as above ; afterwards John Maunsel demised the manor in the king's court to his mother , Amabel Maunsell , for her life , remainder to the said John , remainder to Emma the wife of Alard le Fleming ( n . 3 ) , sister of the said John ; during the disturbances of 1264–5 Šimon son of Simon de Montfort took possession of the manor , and after the battle of Evesham the king in 1268 caused the manor to be restored to Emma by his charter.20 


 
 
 It was presented in 1266 that Preston , late of John Maunsel , was seized by John Fitz - Alan ; Pulborough late of Athelard the Fleming , then in the hands of John Maunsel as guardian , was seised into the hands of the earl of Warenne and at the date of the inquiry had been delivered to John Maunsel's executors . After the death of Alard le Fleming in 1263 the said Emma his relict married Henry de Legh and in 1271 they released to Henry de Tregoz the manor of Preston , 22 which subsequently descended as described at n . 2 . 


 21 


 24 


 In 1284-5 Henry de Tregoz held the manor of Preston by Arundel , 23 and in 1316 Thomas Tregoz was returned as lord thereof.2 Thomas de Ardern had land in West Preston in 1216 25 and 1223.26 


 
 
 2. Pipe R. 14 Hen . II , Chart . R. ii . 169. 5. Red 7. Ibid . 25 Hen . II , p . 39 . 


 Bk . 193 . 


 1. Round , Anct . Deeds ( Pipe R. Soc . ) , 12 . P. 194. 3. Ibid . 18 Hen . II , p . 132. 4. Cal . 6. Pipe R. 23 Hen . II , p . 96 . 8. Ibid . 31 Hen . II , p . 172. 9. Ibid . 32 Hen . II , p . 185. 10. R. Cancel . 236 ff . 11. Suss . Feet of F. i . n . 56. 12. R. Cancel . 76. 13. Pat . R. 1576. 14. R. Lit. Claus . i . 519 ; ii . 2146. 15. Suss . Feet of F. i . n . 339 . 16. Excerpt . e R. Fin . i . 341. 17. Ibid . 363 ; Cannon , Pipe R. 26 Hen . III , 348 . 18. Cal . Pat . R. 253. 19. Close R. 169. 20. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 21. Cal . of Misc . Inq . i . 274. 22. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 166. 23. Feud . Aids , v . 128. 24. Ibid . 142 . 25. R. Lit. Claus . i . 247. 26. Bracton's Note - Bk . , n . 1609 . 


 114 . 


 
 
 · 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 115] ===
 
 
 WEPHAM 99 


 
 
 XXXVI . 


 Picot held of earl Roger in 1086 in Wepham , Suss . , 8 hides . 


 According to Mr. Pym Yeatman there is at Wardour Castle an inspeximus of Henry III confirming a grant by Henry II to Rolland de Dinham ' of 100 marks worth of land for his good service.¹ In 1168 the sheriff of Sussex accounted for 70s . from the land of Wepham of Rolland de Dinan and 2 marks for Wepham of the fee of the same Rolland for 2 fees which the earl ( of Arundel ) claimed but Rolland denied.2 Possibly the temporary loss of this land was due to the non - recognition by Rolland of the service of 2 fees due for Wepham to the earl of Arundel . In the following year 17s . 6d . of farm from the land of Rolland de Dinan in Wepham , while it was in the king's hands , was accounted for , and 20s . of stock sold , before the king restored the land to Rolland.³ In 1172 the sheriff accounted for 40s . of the knights of Rolland de Dinan in his bailiwick for the scutage of Ireland . He is probably the Rolland vicomte de Dinan who is stated to have died without issue in 1182 , being succeeded in Brittany by a nephew Alan.5 


 In 1192 and again in 1196 Hawise de la Gyrche ( Wirch ) owed 40s . for scutage of Wepham.6 In 1201 Hawise de la Wirch ( or Guerche ) owed 40s . for the fee of Wepham for each of the second and third scutages of Richard I ( 1190 and 1196 ) , that for his redemption ( 1194 ) and for the first scutage of John . In the Red Book of the Exchequer she is said to owe scutage in 1199 and 1212 in respect of two knights ' fees of Wepham.8 


 9 


 This Hawise was probably the Hawise de Dinan who in 1201 owed 6 marks in Wiltshire for having peace that she should not marry . In 1199 Sibil de Plugenai and Hawise de Dinant gave 60 marks for right in the king's court touching the vill of Stanton ( Warine ) , Wilts . , by writ of mort d'ancestor , namely of the death of Joice de Dinant , their father.10 In 1204 the sisters Hawise and Sibil gave a horse of price for a writ of precipe in respect of Buck land Denham ( ' Dinant ' ) and Corton Denham , Som . , and Hartland , Devon , against Oliver de Dinan.11 In 1214 Hawise recovered her meadowland of the wood of Alveston , Gloucs.12 Oliver de Dinant died in 1221 in possession of lands in Somerset and Devon , custody of which was committed to William Briwerre , 13 who had custody of Oliver's land and heir in 1225.14 Collinson shows the subsequent descent of these tenements.15 As that of Wepham was different the tenant during the period 1212-1242 is yet to be found . 


 Possibly this fee passed to Humphrey de Milleres , after whose death his sister Felicia de Milleres proffered 100 marks in 1242 for her brother's land , apparently in addition to that in Preston.16 ( See n . 35. ) In 1244 the sheriff of Sussex was directed to deliver the manors of Wepham , Wudehus and Walderton ? ( Wadrinton ' ) to the king's bailee , ¹7 who was later directed to deliver three - fourths of the manor to the three heirs of Hugh earl of Arundel , retaining the fourth part to the use of John Fitz - Alan , then in the king's wardship.18 Two years later John Maunsel was pardoned 100 marks 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 116] ===
 
 
 100 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 which he owed the king for Felicia de Mileres ( for Preston ? ) and £ 20 of the farm of Wepham for the years 1244 and 1245.19 It is , however , quite uncertain that the Mileres had any interest in Wepham . 


 
 
 In 1244 the king granted to John Maunsel during pleasure the manor of Wepham , an escheat of the Normans ' land , for £ 10 yearly rent ; 20 and in 1248 the grant was renewed to John Maunsell , provost of Beverley , to be held in fee by the services due to the lords of the fee.21 


 
 
 Prior to 1266 John Maunsel seized 15 acres of land in Wepham from the prior of Tortington , but before his withdrawal to foreign parts during the Montfort disturbances he had restored the land to the prior . In 1279 the king sought to seize this land on the ground that John Maunsel was a bastard and died without issue , but was non - suited.22 


 
 
 In 1268 the king granted in perpetuity to Peter de Chauvent , in part discharge of a promise of £ 80 worth of land for good services rendered , all the land of Wepham , previously given to John Maunsell and his heirs , as an escheat of the Normans , and then in the king's hands as an escheat by the death of the said John.23 Peter de Chaumpvent had a grant of free warren in Wepham in 1279,24 and he held in 1284-5 in Wepham ( sic ) fee of the king in chief.25 He died in 1303 leaving John his son , aged 30,26 who had the same year a grant of market and fair at his manor of Wepham.27 Edmund earl of Arundel in 1315 impleaded John de Chavent and Eva his wife concerning this manor , and they called John son of Peter de Chavent to warrant them . As he produced the above - recited charter of Henry III to his father , the justices dismissed the plea.28 In 1316 John de Chavent was returned as lord of this vill.29 In 1326 Geoffrey Seman of Cambridge was pardoned for acquiring without licence from John de Chavent the manor of Wepham . 


 30 


 
 
 1. Hist . of House of Arundel , 264. 2. Pipe R. 14 Hen . II , 194. 3. Ibid . 15 Hen . II , 56 . 4. Ibid . 18 Hen . II , 132. 5. Du Paz , Hist . Gen. de Bretagne , 124 . 


 
 
 6 . 


 Red Bk . 92 , 113. 7. R. Cancell . 236–7 . 8. Red Bk . 118 , 147. 9. R. Cancell . 227. 10. R. de Oblat . 38. 11. R. de Fin . 221 . 


 
 
 12. R. Lit. Claus . i . 169b . 13. Ibid . 463. 14. Ibid . ii . 61 . of Somerset , ii . 361-2 . 16. Cannon , Pipe R. 26 Hen . III , 349 . R. 156. 18. Excerpt . Fin . i . 411 . 19. Close R. 394. 20. Pat . R. 425 ; Abbrev . R. Origin . i . 6 ; Close R. 83. 21. Cal . Chart . R. i . 334. 22. Placit . de quo war . 749b . 23. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 89. 24. Ibid . 222. 25. Feud . Aids , v . 128 . 26. Cal . Inquis . iv . 94 . 27. Cal . Chart . R. iii . 39 . 28. Cal . Close R. 151. 29. Feud . Aids , v . 142 . 30. Cal . Pat . R. 322 . 


 
 
 15. Hist . 17. Close 


 
 
 XXXVII . 


 The bishop of Bayeux in 1086 held Bilsington , Kent , in demesne ; it defended itself for 4 solins ( 15 potential ploughs ) . 


 
 
 King Henry's confirmation ( ante 1110 ) of a gift by William de Aubigny I of half the tithes of Bilsington to St. Andrew's , Rochester , has been cited in the Introduction.¹ Dugdale cites a charter ( then in the Cotton collection ) which indicates that the manor was given to Olive daughter of the same William in marriage with Ralph de 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 117] ===
 
 
 BILSINGTON ΙΟΙ 


 
 
 la Hay , who gave the church of Bilsington to the monks of the Holy Trinity of L'Essay , the gift being duly confirmed by William earl of Chichester , Olive's brother.2 To another confirmation of this gift by William earl of Chichester were witnesses : Ralph son of Savari , Alard le Fleming , Manasser Aguillun and Richard Hose.³ Subsequently William earl of Sussex III confirmed to the monks of L'Essay the church of Bilsington which Ralph de la Hay gave to the abbey , with land and tithes , with the consent of William the venerable earl of Arundel . It was subsequently held by Box grove priory , by the grant in 1225 of R [ obert ] abbot of L'Essay.5 


 In 1187 Bilsington was tallaged like other estates of the ancient demesne of the crown ; William Ruffus accounting for £ 4 of the gift of that place . In 1204 , on the separation of Normandy from England , the manor of Bilsington , late of Robert de Curcy , was granted to Henry de Sandwic in exchange for the land he had lost in Normandy . " In 1205 Bilsington , the land late of Robert de Curcy , was worth £ 22.8 In 1207 the manor was granted during pleasure to the earl of Arundel , saving to Henry de Sandwic his chattels there.9 In 1217 Henry III gave the manor to Hamon le Chevaler for his support and directed Philip de Aubigny to give him seisin.10 


 
 
 It was presented in 1219 from Newchurch hundred that a moiety of the vill of Bilsington was the king's escheat and was late of Robert de Curcy ; that the earl of Arundel held it by the bail of king John and it was worth £ 30.11 As noted below ( n . 74 ) Alice countess of Eu was tenant in 1230 of a manor in Bilsington , possibly belonging to Elham.12 


 In 1233 Hugh de Aubigny had seisin of the manor of Bilsington and lands in Little Waltham and Havering , Essex , whereof his brother , earl William de Arundel , was seised at his death.13 On the death of earl Hugh in 1243 the manor was granted or sold by the heirs of Arundel to John Maunsel , being reserved out of the partition of the Arundel inheritance as land of the Normans.14 In 1246 it was confirmed to John Maunsel as that part of land in the manor of Bilsington which was of the inheritance of Hugh de Aubigny , late earl of Arundel , and the same John had by the gift of the four heirs of Arundel ( named ) , the king having no claim in the future to the land as Normans ' land as by inquiry it had been found not to be land of the Normans.15 Two years later , as John Maunsel , provost of Beverley , he had a grant of all fines for aliena tion of lands belonging to the serjeanty of Bilsington , acquired as above.16 


 
 
 In 1249 the serjeanty of Bilsington , formerly of the earl of Arundel , for which he ought to be the king's butler , was found to have been alienated in part . John Maunsel had a moiety of the said serjeanty.17 In 1249 the land of John de Sandwic there , seised because it was of the king's serjeanty , was replevied to John Maunsel and Bertram de Crioll for Sandwic.18 In 1253 Maunsel founded a priory of Austin canons at Bilsington . In 1265 Sir Henry de Montfort seized a third part of the court by the church of Bilsington , which John Maunsel held when he last passed over 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 118] ===
 
 
 102 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 seas , and held it two years , receiving £ 8 a year and in the first year destroying £ 70 worth of wood ; after his death Sir John de Sandwic put himself in seisin.19 In the same year this manor was granted to Peter de Kyvelers in fee.20 It was presented in 1275 that Peter de Kynibers ( sic ) sold the third part of the lower court of Bilsington to John Andrew of Winchelsea , who exchanged it with John de Sandwic knt . , who then held it.21 


 
 
 In 1306 Nicholas de Sandwic had a court and lands here 22 and in 1314 was pardoned for acquiring without the late king's licence from John de Sandwic the manor of Bilsington held in chief . 23 The same or another Nicholas was owner here in 1342 and 1349 . 


 24 


 
 
 The reader is referred to Mr. Round's very interesting account of the Bilsington serjeanty , and its possible connexion with the Aubignys ' office of king's butler , in The King's Serjeants , 172 ff . 


 
 
 1. Textus Roffensis , 173 ; Red Bk . 751. 2. Baronage , i . 186 ; Mon. Angl . iv . 645. 3. Boxgrove Chartulary ( Claud . A. vi . ) , f . 34d . 4. Ibid . f . 36 . 5. Harl . Charter , 43 B. 48 , with two seals ; see Claud . A. vi . ff . 63 , 117 , for confirmations by the archbishops of Canterbury . 6. Pipe R. 33 Hen . II , 209 ; 1 Ric . 236. 7. R. Lit. Claus . i . 9b , 36. 8. R. Norman . I 40 . 9. R. Lit. Claus . i . 94. 10. Ibid . 302b . 11. Bk . of Fees , 271 . 12. Close R. 347 · 13. Ibid . 355 . 14. Cal . Pat . R. 385 , 408 , 426 . 15. Cal . Chart . R. i . 292 . 16. Ibid . 338 . 17. Bk . of Fees , 1251-2 . 18. Close R. 177 . 19. Cal . Misc . Inq . i . 229 . 20. Cal . Pat . R. 515 . 21. R. Hund . i . 230b . Cf. Round , The King's Serjeants , 175 . 22. Cal . Inquis . iv . 234 . 23. Cal . Pat . R. 103. 24. Cal . Inquis . viii . 263 ; ix . 272 . 


 
 
 XXXVIII . 


 In Norfolk Godric the sewer held of the king in Sparham 2 carucates , Great Melton 2 carucates and 110 acres , Little Melton 2 carucates , Dunston III acres , Swainsthorpe 35 acres , Hecking ham 6 carucates , Wramplingham 45 acres which Ralph held , Hillington 2 carucates , Ashby 25 acres and Claxton 50 acres . 


 The king had in Stiffkey carucate , Holkham I carucate belong ing to Wighton ; Garboldisham 2 carucates , and Winfarthing 6 carucates , of which Godric was keeper . 


 Gunfrid held of Robert son of Corbucion in Saxlingham 33 acres , Rushall 1 carucate and Starston 1 carucate . 


 Tovi held of the king in Holkham 3 ploughlands and freemen 


 1 carucate and sochmen 56 acres , Newton Flotman 42 acres . In the king's hands were 15 acres in Hapton which Herbert the chamberlain of Roger Bigot held . 


 It is suggested that the above went to constitute the fee of Buckenham and Rising . 


 
 
 According to the charters of St. Benet's , Hulme , Godric the sewer and Ingreda his wife gave the land of ' Medeltone ' ( Little Melton ) to that abbey . After their death Ralph , Godric's son , took it at a rent of 10s . , and his wife Letselina gave the church a curtain so that she might hold the land for life if she survived her husband . Further , if Ralph should have lawful issue his heir might hold it of the abbey at 40s . rent . This agreement was made by abbot Richer ( 1101-25 ) . Lisewy nepos of Ralph was a witness.¹ 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 119] ===
 
 
 HOLKHAM , WRAMPLINGHAM 103 


 
 
 Abbot Anselm ( 1134-40 ) confirmed the grant to Ralph , Hubert son of Godric attesting ; 2 and the same abbot gave the land to Basilia wife of Ralph son of Godric , for life , at 1 mark rent.³ 


 
 
 5 


 Henry I gave to William de Aubigny his butler , subsequently to certain earlier feoffments , the service of Ralph son of Godric , of 12 knights.4 It is suggested that either Henry I or his said butler enfeoffed Pain Fitz - John of this fee , prior to 1130 , when Pain had remission of 40s . of danegeld in Norfolk . The remission in his favour of danegeld in other counties in 1130 is interesting in regard to the subsequent tenure of Pain's lands by the Muntchenesy family . The particulars are : In Oxfordshire 20s . and in Gloucester shire 28s .; there is also reference to land in Berkshire which William Maltravers was claiming against him . In the same year Geoffrey Talebot proffered 200 marks in Kent for his father's land , and Agnes the wife of Geoffrey Talebot owed 2 marks of gold for her dower and marriage . This land was the honor of Swanscombe , which descended to the two daughters and coheirs of Pain Fitz John . 


 
 
 9 


 Pain died in 1136 , Agnes , one daughter and coheir , being the wife of Warin de Munchenesy and later of Hadenald de Bidun . These marriages are proved by the chartularies of Thetford priory and Oseney abbey , which record ( a ) the gift of the church of Hock ham , Norf . , made to Thetford by Pain Fitz - John , who held of William de Aubigny , who had it of his first wife's maritagium of the fee of Bigod ; Warin de Munchenesy confirmed the gift ; and ( b ) the confirmation by Pain's daughter Agnes and her eldest son Ralph de Munchenesy of the gift of the same church to Oseney abbey made by Hadenald de Bidun at the prayer of the same Agnes daughter of Pain Fitz - John , his wife.10 Warin de Monte Canesi attested the charter of William earl of Chichester founding the priory of Buckenham , Norf . , in the time of king Stephen ( 1151-2 ) .¹ 


 11 


 It was presented in 1170 that 15 days before Candlemas three years then past the servants of the earl of Arundel took certain sheep of Maheu de Candos and led them to Snettisham , keeping them fourteen weeks ; two died in the driving , and in their custody were 18 ewes and So lambs & c . The earl's bailiffs answered that they took those chattels for default of the service of Hanelald de Bidun ; whereupon Maheu was content and claimed from Hanelald.12 


 
 
 There is an alternative suggestion as to the fee of Godric , viz . that the Hubert son of Godric , named as a witness above , c . 1136 , was the Hubert de Monte Caniso who acknowledged to archbishop Theobald ( d . 1161 ) that the vill of Little Melton which his father and other * antecessors ' had held of the abbey of St. Benet , Hulme , was of the fee of St. Benet.13 Henry II accordingly ordered the sheriff to put the monks in possession , Hubert having deforced them in the war.14 14 This Hubert cannot well be the one mentioned below , but may have been father of Warin . 


 
 
 If a statement ( without reference ) in Blomefield's Norfolk ( v . 8 ) could be trusted it would confirm the above hypothesis , for it is that the advowson of Little Melton was given in 1121 to Ixworth 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 120] ===
 
 
 104 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 : 


 
 
 priory by Ralph de Monte Caniso , and confirmed by his nephew Warin de Monchenesy , and appropriation was allowed by Honorius II . The fines , however , show that the grant was made by Ralph de Montchenesy in 1228 . 


 
 
 Agnes de Muntchenesy , daughter of Pain Fitz - John , made a grant of land in Catfield and Heigham Potter.15 She was living . in 1185 , being then aged 60 and holding f11 worth of land in Holk ham in dower , of the fee of the earl of Sussex.16 Ralph and William , her elder sons , were then both knights ; Hubert , the third son , was a clerk ; her elder daughter was married to Stephen de Glanvill and her younger one to William Painel.17 She held in Gallow hundred £ 7 of land in Cockley Cley ( of the Richmond fee ) ; 18 £ 20 of land in Burgh Apton in Clavering hundred , of the fee of St. Etheldreda of Ely ; and £ 16 of land in Sutton in Happing hundred , of the fee of Roger le Bigot.19 


 
 
 It was presented in 1212 that Henry II had given Gooderstone , Norf . , to the ancestors of William de Muntchenesy.20 Ralph eldest son of Warin de Muntchenesi had obtained in or before 1170 an aid for his knighthood , for it appears from the inquest of the sheriffs that in the Muntchenesy fee in Norfolk 1 fee in Hillington and Wramplingham contributed 30s . , Matthew de Candos 6s . from 


 1 


 fee , Ellis de Hechingham 30s . from 1 fee and William Malherbe 50s . to make the said Ralph a knight.21 About this date he held I fee in the two Cowtons , Yorks . , of the honor of Richmond.22 During the period 1174-76 Henry II granted letters of protection for the lands and men of his faithful knight Ralph de Muntchenesy , acquittance of shires and hundreds and other privileges.23 Ralph confirmed grants in Melton made to Wymondham.24 


 
 
 In spite of the inference which might be deduced from the Rotulus de Dominabus that Ralph was alive in 1185 , it is possible . that he died in or about Midsummer , 1176 ; for the sheriff of Norfolk accounted for the farm of Gooderstone , late of Ralph de Munt chenesy , from that date down to Christmas 1179 , when it was delivered to William de Muntchenesy.25 


 
 
 In 1187 Agnes de Muntchenesy accounted for £ 15 ( for a moiety of the honor of Talbot of Swanscombe ) in Kent , of which she paid £ 10 , and £ 5 was pardoned to Stephen de Glanvill ; 26 and Walter de Mayenne accounted for £ 15 for scutage of his knights ( of the same honor ) . In 1190 the countess of Hereford , late the wife of Walter de Mayenne , accounted for £ 14 10s . to the scutage of Wales in respect of 14 fees 27 of her moiety of the same honor . In 1194 William de Muntchenesy had acquittance of scutage in Kent , 28 and in 1196 to the scutage of Normandy Cecily countess of Here ford and William de Muntchenesy together accounted for £ 29 in respect of 29 fees of the honor of Walter de Mayenne , 29 or more correctly of the honor of Talbot of Swanscombe . 


 
 
 1 


 2 


 
 
 During the period 1195-7 William de Muntchenesy was engaged in a plea with the abbot of St. Pierre - sur - Dive , the tenant , respect ing the advowson of the churches of Brumstead and Sutton and a mediety of the church of Catfield , Norf . , which was settled in 1199 by agreement made in the king's court , 30 whereby the abbot 


 
 
 • 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 121] ===
 
 
 HOLKHAM , WRAMPLINGHAM 105 


 
 
 released his claim and William gave him 60s . yearly rent to be received by the hands of the parsons of those churches.31 In 1198 he gave a fine of 200 marks for himself and his maternal aunt ( matertera ) , the countess Cecilia , for their right of Ludlow , Weobley and T ... ias.32 About this time he held 2 fees in Foxley and Cley , Norf . , of the honor of Richmond.33 Before 18 April , 1201 , he gave to the abbey of West Dereham a mediety of the church of Holkham ( Heltham ) , Norf . , 34 and prior to his death in 1204 35 he gave a rent in Gooderstone to Richard de Budicurt , 36 and his land of Erneslund ( in Thredling hundred ) , to the canons of Hickling.37 


 By his wife Aveline , sister of William earl of Arundel , he had issue William and Warine . William was in ward to the same earl of Arundel in 1204,38 and on 14 April , 1207 , the king restored to William de Muntchenesy , who was then in ward of the earl of Arundel , the demesnes , fees , homages and tenements which the countess of Hereford held hereditarily at her death , and writs were accordingly directed to the sheriffs of Essex , Gloucester and Kent.39 This lady was Cecily , younger daughter of Pain Fitz - John . She had married in 1138 Roger son of Miles of Gloucester , earl of Hereford 40 1143 - c . 1155. She married secondly William of Poitou and thirdly before 1166 Walter of Mayenne . She died in or shortly before 1207 , without issue . William de Muntchenesy II , who died before 8 April 1213,41 and probably before 6 April 1208.42 Warine , second son of William de Muntchenesy I and brother and heir of William II , gave a fine of 2000 marks in 1213 for his in heritance , his sureties being his uncle , William earl of Arundel , and James le Sauvage.43 The manor of Winfarthing , Norf . , belong ing to the barony of Warin de Muntchenesy , and the manor of Wykes , Lincs . , were in the king's hands in September of that year . From a feodary of the year 1212 it appears that the heir of William de Muntchenesy then held 2 fees in Norfolk ( possibly including I fee in Bicker and Graby ( in Aslackby ) , Lincs . ) , of the honor of Richmond.45 Most of the lands held by the Muntchenesy family of this honor in the counties of York , Lincoln and Norfolk were held at the survey of 1086 by Godric the sewer , named above.46 Thus in Lincolnshire under count Alan Godric held in Kirkby Underwood 5 bovates , in Graby ( in Aslackby ) and Horbling I carucate ; in Norfolk the king had land in Cley which Godric farmed under him , and under count Alan Godric had 3 car . in Foxby . A review of the various feudal tenements held by this family of others than the earl of Arundel will be made below . 


 44 


 
 
 In 1215 Warin de Muntchenesy appears to have withdrawn from allegiance to John , and on 9 October his manor of Wikes , Gloucs . , was delivered to Walter de Lascy as his right.47 Similarly the manor of Toddington ( Tudinton ' ) , Beds . , was committed to two officials of the crown.48 On 29 April , 1216 , seisin of 2 fees , held by the king's enemies of the same Warin , was committed to Henry de Trublevill ; 49 but on 6 November , 1217 , Warin returned to allegiance and had writs of reseisin to the sheriffs of Kent , Gloucester , Essex , Norfolk and Buckinghamshire in respect of his lands in those counties , as he held them when he withdrew from 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 122] ===
 
 
 106 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 service of king John.50 In 1223 he had writs of scutage to the sheriffs of Worcester , 51 Norfolk and Suffolk , Essex , Kent , Hereford , Buckingham 52 and Lincoln.53 


 
 
 The following pleadings are of interest as throwing light on the descent of the Muntchenesy inheritance : 


 
 
 In 1224 in an assize of last presentation to the church of Swans combe there was uncertainty whether the countess Cecily , grand mother ( avia , i.e. great - aunt ) of Warin de Muntchenesy , or the prior of Southwark last presented to the church.54 In the same year Warin de Muntchenesy demanded against William de Franche vill 100 solidates of land in Winfarthing , Norf . , which he alleged that defendant held only by agreement and not by grant in fee . 55 Warin also demanded against Walter de Godardvill fee in Wicham , Kent , alleging that Hugh de Vallibus gave defendant entry only when he had wardship of William de Muntchenesy , Warin's brother.56 


 In 1228 Randulf de Ginges impleaded Warin de Muntchenesy as mesne that he should acquit plaintiff of suit demanded by the bishop of London to his court of Bishop Stortford in respect of plaintiff's tenement in Horndon held of Warin . Warin answered that Randulf's ancestor Reginald , namely uncle of Roger , father of Randulf , had done suit by assignment of the seneschal of Cecily , Warin's great - grandmother ( potius great - aunt ) , and afterwards . Roger , father of plaintiff , had done suit.57 No judgment was recorded . The tenement was that known as Cantis , in Horndon on - the - Hill , Essex , 58 which appears to have been held of the bishop of London in 1166 by Walter de Mayenne ( Meine ' ) . 59 


 In 1232 Warin de Muntchenesy demanded 2 carucates in Luddesdown , Kent , of which Cecily his ancestress was seised temp . Henry II and because she died without issue descended to Agnes as her sister and heir ( and from Agnes to Ralph her son and heir and because he died s.p. to William his brother and so to William his son and heir ) and because William died s.p. the right descended to this Warin as brother and heir . Defendants pleaded that the countess Cecily gave the land to Richard Giffard , father of Mabel , wife of Adam de Kailly , and of Isabel de Frivill , two of the defendants . Warin denied this , and pleaded that if Richard Giffard had entry by William de Pictavia , sometime husband of Cecily , the gift was not good . Defendants ' pleadings state that Cecily , after the death of the said William , married Walter de Mayenne ( Meinne ' ) ; they put themselves on the grand assize.6º Walter de Mayenne stated in his carta in 1166 that Richard Giffard held Luddesdown , Walter's demesne manor , worth £ 25 , whereof Walter received no service . 61 


 
 
 Warin , who was a benefactor of Wymondham , 62 married first , c . 1214-15 , Joan , fifth sister and ultimately coheir of Anselm Marshal , earl of Pembroke , 63 by whom he had issue John , who died young and without issue in 1247,64 and Joan , who married in 1247 William de Valence , earl of Pembroke . 65 He married secondly , in 1234-5 , Denise the relict of Walter de Langeton of Langton , Lincs . , and of Ridgwell , Essex , brother of Master Simon de Langeton . She had licence to marry whom she would on 15 November 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 123] ===
 
 
 HOLKHAM , WRAMPLINGHAM 107 


 
 
 66 


 1234. She was daughter and heir of Nicholas de Anesty and niece of Hamon Pecche.67 Warin and Denise had lands in Thixen dale and Birdsall , Yorks . , in 1236.68 


 In 1236 and 1242-3 Warin de Muntchenesy held the following fees in Blithfield , Staffs . , fee , 69 possibly part of 1 fee which the earl of Arundel had in ward in 1212 with the heir of William de Muntchenesy ; 70 in Frome Henry , Herefords . , I hide held of the honor of Muntchenesy for fee of ancient feoffment ; 71 in Gloucestershire , viz . in Edgeworth fee , 72 the vill of Painswick , possibly the Wyka ' held for 1 hide in 1212 by William de Munt chenesy ; 73 in Shrivenham , Berks . , half the manor , late the old demesne of the earl Marshal ; 74 in Kent 29 fees of the honor of Talbot of Swanscombe , as described in the Red Book of the Ex chequer ( p . 195 ) and in Testa de Nevill , including 1 fee in Luddes down , 75 also I fee in Wickham by Strood and Islingham , held of the bishop of Rochester ; 76 in Dinton , Bucks . , fee of the honor of Swanscombe ( Kent ) , 77 which the heir of William de Muntchenesy held in 1212 ; 78 in right of his wife Denise de Anesty he held in 1236 in Anstey and Little Hormead , Herts . , 3 ( or 5 ) fees of the fee of Valoignes , 79 and of the fee of Munchenesy 13 fees , 80 whereof the earl of Arundel held in 1212 Hanningfield , Essex , with the heir of William de Muntchenesy ; 81 in Lincolnshire , in Biker , Donning ton and Swineshead fee of the honor of Richmond ; 82 and in Norfolk , besides 11 fees of this honor , I fee in Gooderstone , held of the king in chief , 83 which the earl of Arundel had held in 1212 in ward with the heir of William de Muntchenesy . 84 


 
 
 In the year 1244 the service of 11 fees of Warin de Munt chenesy in Holkham , Hillington , Wramplingham , Newton Flotman , Melton , Blythford , Heckingham , Garboldisham , Rushall , Hapton , Quiddenham , Saxlingham , Sparham , Stiffkey and Little Melton was assigned to the pourparty of Robert de Tateshale.85 In 1253 the same Warin obtained a grant of free warren in his lands in Luddesdown , Hartley and Milton by Gravesend , Kent , Fordham and Thorrington , Essex , Holkham and Carbrook , Norf . , and Dinton , Bucks.86 He confirmed to Langley abbey in 1254 the gift of the manor of Heckingham made by Roger de Thurkeby . 87 


 1 


 Warin died in 1255 and was succeeded by his son William , issue of his second marriage , who was aged 24 in January 1254 , when he was found to be the next heir to Ralph de la Haye of the vill of Quendon , Essex , held of Warin de Muntchenesy for I fee , and of Layer de la Haye , Essex , held of Sir Henry de Essex for I fee ( which William de Muntchenesy had held in 1212 of the honor of Henry de Essex ) , 88 and of fee in Rettendon , Essex , held of the bishop of Ely , 89 possibly being a moiety of I fee held in 1166 by Luke de Berkesheved and Ranulf de Haia of the fee of Richard de Salcovill , ⁹⁰ for which Maurice de Hay and Luke son of Walter de Brokesheved respectively paid relief in 1171.91 On 1 August 1255 , after the death of Warin de Muntchenesy , his relict Denise obtained livery of her own inheritance 92 and two years later she gave 200 marks to marry whom she would . 93 The wardship of the lands belonging to the heir of Warin's first marriage was granted 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 124] ===
 
 
 108 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 in 1255 to the king's brother , William of Valence . 94 There are abstracts of many deeds of William de Muntchenesy in the Catalogue of Ancient Deeds . He was taken prisoner at Kenilworth in 1265 and subsequently many inquiries were made concerning his manors.95 He was fully pardoned in 1275 for being in arms against the king.96 In 1283 his parks at Winfarthing , Norf . , and Swans combe , Kent , were entered by deer stealers.97 He died in 1287,98 and in the ensuing year his mother Denise , who had obtained a charter for a market and fair at Hockham in 1272,99 acquired for 2000 marks the wardship of his lands , his daughter and heir Denise being in her minority.100 In that year ( 1288 ) the serjeanty of Staunton , Worcs . , was held of Denise , daughter of the said William.101 Before 1301 she had become the wife of Hugh de Ver , 102 who was returned in 1304 as holding of his wife's inheritance 11½ fees of Robert de Tateshale II , and similarly in 1308 of the said Robert's son and heir Robert III.103 In 1309 a moiety of these fees was assigned to the dower of Joan late the wife of Robert de Tateshale , and a fourth part to Thomas de Kailli.104 In 1310 Hugh and Denise obtained a grant of a yearly fair at their manor of Gooderstone , Norfolk.105 Denise de Ver died in 1313 106 without issue , her next heir being her cousin , Aymer de Valence , 107 afterwards created earl of Pembroke , who was also heir to the inheritance of Denise's grandmother , Denise , who died in 1304.108 The inquest taken after the death of Denise shows that she held Hanningfield and other manors in Essex of the king in chief ; Great Braxted , Essex , of Sir Robert Fitz - Walter ; Great Anstey and Little Hormead , Herts . , and Nutfield , Surrey , of the honor of Boulogne , and Meesdon of the bishop of London ; Dinton , Bucks . , Swans combe , Hartley and other manors , Kent , with the honor of Talbot of Swanscombe ; Towcester , Northants . , of the earl of Gloucester ; Painswick , Gloucs . , and Gooderstone , Norf . , of the king in chief by barony ; Holkham and Winfarthing , Norf . , of the honor of Arundel ; Hockham and Sutton , Norf . , of the earl of Norfolk ; Burgh Apton , Norf . , of the prior of Ely ; Carbrooke , Norf . , of the earl of Gloucester ; and Foxley , Norf . , of the honor of Richmond . 109 The particulars of the knights ' fees belonging to the barony of Muntchenesy , as derived from the Aid of 1302 and the extents taken after the death of Aymer de Valence in 1324 , are given below . Included in the return are : Tenements in Shropham , Brumstead , Banham , Garboldisham , Hickling and Catfield held of the Earl Marshal ; a tenement in Repps held of the earl of Norfolk ; 1 fee in Cockley Cley held of the honor of Richmond ; tenements in Burgh Apton held of the honor of Clare ; and certain tenements in Suffolk . From evidence noted above it appears that Pain Fitz - John had held lands in Catfield and Heigham Potter . 


 
 
 1. Winfarthing manor 2. Rushall 


 
 
 1302.110 


 I fee Hugh de Ver 


 
 
 Ι 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 1324.111 Aymer de Valence , Earl of Pembroke John de Ryveshale ( heirs of Henry de Reveshale ) 


 Abbot of Langley Abbot of Langley 


 
 
 3. Heckingham and Hales 1 , 


 
 
 Wynesia de Revis hale 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 125] ===
 
 
 HOLKHAM , WRAMPLINGHAM 109 


 
 
 4. Sparham 


 
 
 5. Holkham 


 Do. 


 
 
 Do. 


 
 
 Do. 


 6. Garboldisham 


 
 
 7. Quiddenham 


 
 
 Swansthorpe and Surling 


 ham 


 
 
 8. Great Melton 


 
 
 Do. 


 
 
 9. Lit. Melton 


 10. Dunston and Swans 


 thorpe 


 II . Newton Flotman 


 
 
 1302.110 


 
 
 Hachford 


 
 
 and Colney 


 
 
 12. Wramplingham 


 
 
 Hillington by Norwich , Askby and Claxton 


 
 
 13. Gt . Carbrook 


 
 
 14. Buckenham Ferye 


 15. Saxlingham 


 
 
 } 


 
 
 { & fee 


 " " 


 
 
 سا مسلم 


 
 
 2 


 
 
 зазвантов 


 
 
 16 ,, 


 1 


 
 
 MHH | 


 
 
 2 


 
 
 HA 


 
 
 ست 


 
 
 Ccod 


 
 
 nolog 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 A 


 
 
 } } 


 
 
 " : 


 
 
 } ) 


 
 
 द 


 
 
 " } 


 
 
 } ) 


 
 
 " } 


 
 
 ) ; 


 
 
 } ) 


 
 
 1 , 


 
 
 " } 


 
 
 I ,, 


 
 
 } } 


 
 
 } , 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 } } 


 
 
 I , 


 
 
 I ,, 


 
 
 &gt; " 


 
 
 16. Blyford and Walsham [ 1 ] ,, ( Suff . ) 


 
 
 Adam de Sperham Robert de Jer 


 nemue 


 
 
 Dame Denise de Muntchenesy 


 Eustace le Bret of Holkham Walter Hakun of Holkham 


 John s . Adam le Bret of Holk ham , of Sir Roger de Brun 


 
 
 Robt . de Holvys ton of Will , de Kerdyston 


 Will . de Blunvyle of Sir Robert Fitz - Roger 


 Sir Robert le Malherbe of Sir Robert Fitz Roger 


 Ralph Malerbe of the same 


 
 
 John de Helgeton Will . de Kerdeston late of Sirs Thos . and Herbert de Helgeton Baldwin de Maners of Dame Denise de Muntchenesy ( honor of Clare ) Simon de Ratles dene 


 Agatha atte Howe of Simon de Ratlesdene [ Hamon de Mickle feld , joint lord of Blyford in 1316 ] 


 
 
 1324.111 Same two ( or heirs of Barthol . de Sparham and heirs of Geof . de Grene keye ) 


 Aymer de Valence 


 
 
 Will . le Veutre 


 Heirs of Robt . de Peter de Bokenham 


 Bokenham 


 Miles de Hastinges John le Faukener and tenants late of Richard Bigot , of Miles de Has tinges 


 Richard Hakun 


 Hugh de Ver 


 Will . de Lek 


 
 
 Heirs of Peter le Bret Ralph Hakoun 


 Richard Neel 


 
 
 Matilda Pyngaz ( heir of Miles de Has tinges ) 


 
 
 Hubert Hakun ( or his heirs ) Gilbert Baliol ( or Will . de Melton ) John Damas ( or Will . de Hertford ) 


 
 
 3 f . John de Claver ing ( or the heirs of Cressi ) 


 
 
 I 


 1 f . in Hillington and Wrampling ham by Roger de Helgeton ( or 1 f . by Thos . de Hel weton ) John de Botetourte ( or Will.de Mawers ( sic ) ) 


 
 
 Simon de Ratlisden 


 ( or his heirs ) Peter de Nerford ( or Will . Blound ) 


 
 
 2 f . by John Fastolf and Hamon de Mikelefeld ( or 1 f . in Blyford by Hamon de Mikel feld ) 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 126] ===
 
 
 IIO HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 17. Burgh Apton 


 
 
 1302.110 Richard de la Rokele ( of honor of Clae ) 


 
 
 fee 


 
 
 111 


 
 
 1324 . Rich . de la Rokele ( or his heirs ) 


 
 
 Do. 


 To " , 


 Henry de Heylesdon 


 Particulars of the honor of Talbot of Swanscombe , part of which was held in the Survey of 1086 by Helto under the bishop of Bayeux , will be found among the extents of the lands of Aymer de Valence taken in 1324 . 


 112 


 
 
 1. Cott . MS . Galba E. ii . f . 54. 2. Ibid . f . 56 ; Turner and Coxe , Cal . of Bodleian Charters , 240. 3. Cott . MS . Galba E. ii . f . 56. 4. Red Bk . 398. 5. Pipe R. 31 Hen . I , 95. 6. Ibid . passim . 7. Ibid . 67. 8. Cited by Mr. Round from Lansd . MS . 229 , f . 147d . 9. Ibid . 10. Cited by Mr. Round from Cott . MS . Vitell . E. xv . f . 162. 11. Mon. Anglic . vi . 419 ; Cal . Chart . R. iii . 368 ; Brit . Mus . Facsimiles of Charters , n . 27. 12. Red Bk . cclxix . 13. Galba E. ii . ff . 44 , 62. 14. Ibid . f . 33d . Anct . D. iv . A. 9742. 16. R. de Dominabus , 50. 17. Ibid . 58. 19. Ibid . 54 . 20. Bk . of Fees , 129. 21. Red Bk . cclxxii . 22. Cal . Mis . Inquis . i . 169. 23. Cal . Chart . R. i . 325 ; Cal . Pat . R. 1280 , p . 404 . 24. Titus C. viii , f . 91d , 92. 25. Pipe R. 22-26 Hen . II , passim . 26. Ibid . 33 Hen . II , p . 209 . 27. Red Bk . 70 . 28. Ibid . 79 . 29. Ibid . 96 . 30. R. Cur . Regis , i . 307 , 314 ; ii , 16. 31. Abbrev . Placit . 8b . 32. R. Cur . Regis , i . 144. 33. Cal . of Miscel . Inquis . i . p . 169. 34. R. Chart . 93. 35. R. de Fin . 227. 36. R. Lit. Claus . i . 149 , 151. 37 . 


 15. Cat . of 18. Ibid . 


 R. Chart . 38. R. de 


 109 . 


 117. This gift may have been made by the Edwardstone line . Fin . 227 ; R. Chart . 133. 39. R. Lit. Claus . i . 81b . 40. Mr. Round in Anct . Charters ( Pipe R. Soc . ) , 35-8 . 41. R. Lit. Claus . i . 129. 42. Ibid . 43. R. de Fin . 514. 44. R. Lit. Claus . i . 149 . 45. Red . Bk . 480 , 520 . 46. See Richmond Fee , n . 1 ( F ) . 47. R. Lit. Pat . 157. 48. R. Lit. Claus . i . 2326. 49. Ibid . 266b . 50. Ibid . 346b . 51. Probably in respect of Staunton . 52. R. Lit. Claus . i . 5716. 53. Ibid . 573. 54. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 983. 55. Ibid . n . 890. 56. Ibid . n . 893. 57. Ibid . n . 275 . 58. V. C. H. Essex , i . 441. 59. Red Bk . 187 . 


 60. Bracton's Note - Bk . 62. Chartulary , Titus C. viii . f . 89 . 64. Close R. 527 . 


 65. Ibid . 67. Close 70. Ibid . 


 74. Ibid . 


 1234–7 , P. 104 . 69. Testa , 47 . 73. Ibid . 77 . Ibid . 245 . 78. Ibid . 260 . 81. Ibid . 269. 82. Ibid . 85. Close R. 248 . 


 n . 671 . 61. Red Bk . 196 . 63. Meyer , Will . le Marescal , iii . 207-8 . 529. 66. Excerpt . e R. Fin . i . 268 ; Close R. R. 1231-4 , PP . 91 , 508 . 68. Ibid . 352-3 . 54b . 71. Ibid . 63b , 68b . 72. Ibid . 74-6 . 1256. 75. Ibid . 209 , 217 . 76. Ibid . 77 . 79. Ibid . 265 , 270 , 272b . 80. Ibid . 264b , 266 . 3026 , 3126. 83. Testa , 283. 84. Ibid . 2936 . 86. Cal . Chart . R. i . 428. 87. Chartulary , Add . MS . 5948 , f . 6d , 35d , 42d . 88. Red Bk . 597. 89. Cal . Inquis . i . 79 ; Excerpt . e R. Fin . ii . 191 . 90. Red Bk . 365. 91. Pipe R. 17 Hen . II , 117. 92. Excerpt . e R. Fin . ii . 213 . 93. Cal . Pat . R. 543 . 94. Ibid . 419. 95. Cal . of Miscel . Inquis . i . pass . 96. Cal . Pat . R. pass . See Dugdale's Baronage . 97. Cal . Pat . R. 98. Cal . Fine R. i . 240 . 99. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 179 . 100 , 104 . 102. Cal . Fine R. i . 441 . 245 . 


 100. Ibid . 


 101. Cal . Inquis . ii . 410 . 


 Inquis . iv . 106 , 261. 104. Cal . Close R. 100 , 102 . 


 iii . 138 . 


 103. Cal . 105. Cal . Chart . R. 106. Cal . Fine R. ii . 193. 107. Cal . Inquis . v . 268. 108. Cal . Close R. 1314 , PP . 56 , 191. , 109. Cal . Inquis . v . 268-70 . 110. Feud . Aids , iii . pass . 111. Cal . Inquis . vi . 333-4 . 112. Ibid . 322 , 329 . 


 
 
 XXXIX . 


 The bishop of Bayeux had in 1086 7 carucates in Flitcham ( with Appleton ) , a berewick of Snettisham , and 4 carucates in Stanhoe , belonging to Snettisham . Humphrey de Bohun had I carucate in Tatterford ( with Barmer ) and a berewick of carucate ( possibly in Shereford ) . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 127] ===
 
 
 FLITCHAM , STANHOE III 


 
 
 Thomas d . 1184 


 
 
 of Seaton , co . Rut land 


 Ralph- ( ? ) same as Ralph II gave Snelling Mill to Thur garton . 


 
 
 = Alice dau . Waleran de Oiri , aged 20 in 1185 


 
 
 Ralph III aged 2 in 1185 . R. Canc . 336 , Norf , 


 
 
 Ralph s . of Ralph livery 1248 , co . Norf . Excerpt . ii . 37 


 
 
 Agatha 


 
 
 Agatha 


 
 
 Geoffrey de Belfou Thomas of Seaton , 1283 


 
 
 G 


 
 
 Alice R. Canc . 337 , 


 I201 


 
 
 Robert Aguillon , 1233 


 
 
 Adam de Cokefeld , 1275 


 
 
 Philippa 


 
 
 Isabel - 


 
 
 Ralph de Belfou I gave to Thurgarton the church of Lowdham . 


 
 
 Istan 


 
 
 BELFOU PEDIGREE . 


 
 
 Luke de Ponynges 


 
 
 John de Cokefeld , Thomas de Ponynges , 1302 . 1302 . 


 
 
 Henry cf. after 1172 a Norman , Red Bk . 630 n . 


 
 
 Emma 


 Cal . Chart . i . 49 , 212 , 223 ; Close i . 236 , 319 . d . c . 1240 s.p. Lowd ham , Notts , S. Creake , Norf . 


 
 
 T Margery 


 
 
 = Robert 


 
 
 Margery ( 1 ) Jordan ¡ de Sauche vill 


 
 
 Fulk ( ? ) 


 
 
 Andrew de Saukevill , 1283 , 1300 , 1302 . 


 
 
 de Escales , I233 . 


 
 
 Gilbert de Norfolk , d . 1205 


 
 
 ( 2 ) Giles de Argentem 


 
 
 Amalric ( ? ) 


 
 
 Gilbert . 


 
 
 Joan 


 
 
 Joan 


 
 
 Richard c . 1172 a Norman , Red Bk . 630 . 


 
 
 Thomas de Ingoldestorp , 1233 . 


 
 
 Reginald de Argentem , 1275 , 1283 . 


 
 
 Ralph Fitz Bernard 


 
 
 Richard of Waterperry d . 1246 . 


 
 
 = 


 
 
 Isabel OCC . 1233 . 


 
 
 Elena d . Hugh s . Gilb . de Lacy . 


 
 
 Henry of Waterperry d . ante 1273 , succ . 1246 ( Bodl . Ch . 375 ) 


 
 
 Sibyl 


 
 
 S 


 
 
 John de Mundeford . 


 
 
 ( ? ) Agnes de Belfou , 1233 


 
 
 Richard 1273 


 
 
 ( ? ) Richard de Belfou Waterperry , 1279 . 


 
 
 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 128] ===
 
 
 II2 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 Ralph de Belfou ( Bella Fago ) attested a charter of Henry I issued about the year 1109.1 From the Testa de Nevill we learn that South Creake had been given out of the royal demesne by Henry I to Ralph de Belfou or Beaufou for the service of fee that Ralph had been succeeded by his son Ralph , and he by his niece ( neptis ) Emma de Belfou , the tenant in 1212.2 As will be shewn this statement is not quite correct . 


 The first Ralph may have been the Ralph de Bellafago who , with the consent of his brother Gilbert , gave the church of Lowdham and mill of Doverbec to the canons of Thurgarton temp . Stephen.3 The second Ralph gave Snellingmilne ( or Doverbec ) to the same canons , and Emma de Belfou confirmed the gift of her uncle the said Ralph.4 Ralph de Belfou son of Ralph de Belfou also gave to Castle Acre priory tenements in Barsham and Creake , for the soul of King Henry [ I ] , who brought me up , and for my lord Henry II , his grandson.'5 This may imply that his father died temp . Henry I , so that he became the king's ward . An amendment of the annexed pedigree ( p . III ) would then be necessary . 


 There are references to Ralph de Belfou as of Nottinghamshire and the honor of Tickhill in 1165-6 and of Norfolk in rolls of the sheriff for 1157 , 1161 , 1165 and 1167 , but it is not quite certain that he held this fee or that the entries all refer to one Ralph . One of that name was a tenant under Henry de Rye , son of Herbert de Rye by Agnes , daughter and heir of Ralph de Belfou , of lands in Norfolk , Lincolnshire and Rutland , which did not descend like this fee . 


 6 


 
 
 In 1166 Geoffrey de Merlay held 5 fees of William de Aubigny the butler of his demesnes of Norfolk . " This Geoffrey attested a charter of Ralph de Toeni to the priory of Westacre . It may be suggested that he held this fee either jure uxoris , or as guardian of the heir of Ralph de Belfou of Flitcham and Lowdham . The Merlays appear to have been tenants of the Arundel fee and William de Merlay attests charters of William earl of Sussex during the period 1175-83 . 


 
 
 9 


 In 1170 Amalric de Belfou certified that he gave to the earl of Arundel , after King Henry last passed over to Normandy , 60s . for 3 fees and by a judgment 40s . more . In 1176 the sheriff of Norfolk accounted for 49s . 9d . of the issues of land in Creake late of Thomas de Belfou for a quarter of a year , 10 and in the ensuing year the same Thomas gave a fine of 100 marks for land in Creake . " He was amerced in Rutland in 1180 for a default.12 In 1185 a Jew of Rising offered £ 10 for the right of debts due to him by Amalric de Belfou , Daniel de Merlay and others.13 Two years later this Jew was burned to death in his house at Lynn.¹4 


 11 


 Thomas de Belfou quitclaimed all right in the church of South Creake to Castle Acre , for the soul of Henry I and for my lord King Henry II ' ; and Ralph de Belfou son of Thomas confirmed the gift of this church according to the grants by his grandfather Ralph de Belfou and his father Thomas.15 This establishes Thomas's paternity . Gilbert de Belfou also gave to Castle Acre the church and two - thirds of the tithes of his brother Ralph's 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 129] ===
 
 
 FLITCHAM , STANHOE 113 


 
 
 demesne of Creak ; Reginald de Warenne attesting one of these charters.16 


 
 
 Thomas de Belfou died in 1184 , leaving by Alice his wife , daughter of Waleran de Oiri , then aged 20 , a son Ralph , then aged 23 years , who was in ward of Nigel Fitz - Alexander , his mother's uncle . The said Alice had the service of 1 fee in Ashley , Northants , and land in Seaton in Rutland ; her son's guardian had land in his custody belonging to the heir in South Creake , Norfolk , worth £ 10 , or when restricted £ 15.17 A plea in 1203 and 1204 throws some light on the descent of Seaton . John Marshal and Alvreda or Alina his wife , Humphrey or Geoffrey de Cestria and Isabel his wife , claimed against the prior of Shelford and others the advowson of the church of Seaton . The prior based his title on the gift of the land of Seaton , Rutland , where the church stood , together with the advowson of the church , made by Hubert de Ria to Thomas de Belfou , who afterwards gave that church to the priory of Shelford ; and he called to warranty Ralph de Belfou , son and heir of the said Thomas.18 


 
 
 But to return . Amalric de Belfou was living in 1189 , and a few years later attested a charter of John count of Mortain to the abbey of Jerpoint in Kilkenny ; 19 and another of Theobald Walter to the monks of Arklow , Wicklow.20 In July 1215 Aumari de Belfou agreed with Richard de Burgh to surrender to him by exchange the castle of Asketon in Ireland.21 


 It is very difficult to explain the descent of this fee during the latter part of the twelfth century . It is possible that Ralph de Belfou II had brothers , Henry , Fulk ( ? ) , Amalric and Richard . Henry de Belfou was appointed to view work upon Norwich castle in the years 1174-1176.22 


 
 
 In 1190 Gilbert de Norfolk proffered 100 marks in Norfolk for right of the land of the inheritance of Ralph de Belfou.23 Henry de Belfou was engaged in a plea of land in Normandy.24 In or before 1204 he appears to have withdrawn from allegiance to John , for in 1205 Richard de Belfou had livery of 100 solidates of land in Waterperry , Oxon . , which Henry his brother gave him , and of which Richard had been disseised because of Henry's withdrawal from the king's service.25 


 
 
 The inquest taken after the death of Richard son of Richard de Belfou of Waterperry , Oxon . , in January 1246 , states that Henry de Belfou was his heir , but remained in Normandy ; that Richard father of the said Richard impleaded Emma de Pirie of the manor of Waterperry ( Pirie ' ) by writ of King Henry the king's grandfather ( i.e. Henry II ) and they made agreement so that two - thirds of the manor held in service remained to Emma and her heirs to be held of the said Richard , and the third part remained to the said Richard in demesne with the lordship of the two - thirds.26 See Oilli , n . II . 


 
 
 In 1200 the king granted to Gilbert de Norfolk the inheritance of his wife Emma de Belfou , 27 and in that year Ralph de Belfou obtained a writ of mort d'ancestor against the said Gilbert touching fee in Creake and Burnham , Norfolk.28 In the ensuing year 


 
 
 III . I 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 130] ===
 
 
 114 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 7 


 
 
 1 


 Alice and Emma , daughters of Henry de Belfou , acquired a writ touching a messuage in Norwich.29 In 1205 Ralph de Belfou obtained seisin of the fee in Creake and Burnham , touching which a fine had been made between him and Gilbert de Norfolk and Emma his wife , whereby Ralph had granted the fee to them to hold of him during Gilbert's life with reversion to Ralph and his heirs.30 Ralph de Belfou owed 20 marks in 1208 and a palfrey for seisin offee in Creake and Burnham as recovered before the justices in eyre by assize of mort d'ancestor ; but he was afterwards disseised by the king's order because Gilbert de Norfolk gave the king to understand that the assize was taken against him ( Gilbert ) while he had his knights in the king's service , although he had earlier protested before the justices that he had no knights in the king's service.31 


 
 
 Towards the end of 1205 Gilbert de Norfolk had died , and his relict Emma de Belfou gave 600 marks for her inheritance of Lowdham , Notts . , and in Norfolk , and for her dower in her late husband's land , and that she should not be constrained to marry ; on the further condition also that if she had no issue Lowdham should revert to the king.32 Accordingly the king confirmed to her the manor of Lowdham and her inheritance in Flitcham , Creake and Roudham on the terms noted above.3 33 On 19 Septem ber 1205 the sheriff of Norfolk was directed to give Emma de Frivill the lands of her inheritance which Gilbert de Norfolk , her husband , lately held.3 Emma de Belfo in 1210 owed 3 of 14 marks for judgment against Adam de Eggemare in a case of debt.35 To the nuns of Blackborough , Norfolk , she gave in her widowhood , for the soul of Isabel de Frivill , a rent of 400 eels from her fishery of Wilton , Norfolk.36 She held Lowdham , Notts . , in 1212 for 1 fee of the honor of Tickhill.37 


 34 


 
 
 So far as can be ascertained , Emma , the daughter of Henry de Belfou , had sisters Alice ( named above ) , Agatha , who married Robert Aguillon , Philippa , who married [ Istan , Joan , who married Thomas de Ingoldestrop , and Margery , who married first Thomas Penning 38 and secondly Robert de Scales . 


 
 
 In 1212 Emma de Belfou held land in South Creake for fee of the king in chief.39 In 1219 she was in the king's gift , her land in Flitcham being worth £ 30 a year ; 40 in 1236 she held of the king in chief fee in South Creake which Ralph de Belfou held of her.4 41 In 1227 Henry III confirmed to Emma the manor of Lowdham , Notts . , the land of Creake and her inheritance in Norfolk in Flitcham and Roudham , and the grant to Hubert de Burgh of the reversion of the manor of Lowdham and the land of Creake , Emma having by fine recognised the said Hubert to be her heir.42 This acknowledgment did not take effect . In 1233 there was a dispute in the King's Bench between Emma de Belfou , Robert Aguillon , Isabel , daughter of Istan and Philippa his wife , Robert de Escales and Thomas de Ingoldestorp , plaintiffs , and William , earl of Warenne , the tenant , respecting 4 carucates in Wilton and 3 carucates in Foulden , Norfolk ( see Warenne , n . 81 ) .43 In 1236 Emma was the tenant in certain disputes about land in 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 131] ===
 
 
 FLITCHAM , STANHOE 115 


 
 
 Lowdham , Gunthorpe and Caythorpe , Notts .; 44 at that date she held I fee in Lowdham of the honor of Tickhill . 45 Apparently she died soon after that date , and in 1244 Robert Aguillon , as husband of the elder heir , namely Agatha de Belfou , held this fee , and his service for 5 fees in Flitcham , Barmer and Tatterford was assigned to the pourparty of Roger de Somery and Nicholaa his wife.46 In 1256-7 and again in 1260-1 Luke de Ponynges was demandant in fines and land in Flitcham.47 Adam de Cokefeld of Flitcham was a rebel in 1265 , and Giles de Argentem of the same place was against the king at Evesham.48 In 1275 it was returned that Adam de Cokefeld , Robert Pujois , Luke de Ponynges and Reginald de Argentem had leet and assize of bread and ale in Flitcham , where the prior of Flitcham had 1 carucate by the gift of Robert Aguillon.49 In 1283 Andrew de Saukevill demanded against Reginald de Argentem land in Wilton , Hockwold , Fouldon , Flitcham , Rising and Yelverton . 50 


 The record of a plea in Trinity term 1300 shows that Robert Aguillon was the founder of Flitcham priory , and that Andrew de Saukevill recovered against William de Anemere the right of presentation to the priory as heir of Robert Aguillon . 51 In 1302 the heirs of Belfou held fee in South Creake of the king in chief ; dame Joan de Rocheford , Thomas de Ponynges , Andrew de Sauke vill , and William de Bernardeston held 2 fees in Flitcham and Appleton of the honor of Arundel ; Ivo de Berewyk held fee in Stanhoe , Barwick and Barmer of the heirs of Robert Aguillon of Flitcham and they of the heirs of Roger de Somery ; Thomas de Snyterton held 1 fee in Tatterford and Shereford ; 52 the prior of Westacre held fee in Roudham of Robert Aguillon ( ' Dagolun ' ) .53 See also Warenne , n . 81 . 


 4 


 I 


 The Belfous of Seaton , Rutland , long continued there . In 1305 John de Belfou held fee there , and in 1316 was joint lord of the vill.54 In the same year John de Marshal died holding land in Seaton which Ralph ( sic ) de Belfou held of him for 1 fee.55 William son of John Beaufou of Seaton occurs in 1346.56 He died in 1349 holding a hall in Seaton of Ros of Helmsley ; John his son , then aged 15 years , 57 proved his age in 1357.58 Richard de Beaufou held land in Seaton in 1361 of Robert de Morlee for 1 fee.59 


 
 
 2. Bk . of Fees , 129. 3. Regist . of Thur 4. Ibid . f . 55d . 5. Chartulary , Harl . 2110 , 461 . 7. Red Bk . 398. 8. Mon. Angl . vi . 10. Pipe R. 22 Hen . II , 70. 11. Ibid . 26 Hen . II , 88. 13. Ibid . 31 Hen . II , 40 . 15. Harl . MS . 2110 , f . 46d . 


 1. Cal . Chart . R. i . 153 . garton , f . 61 ( in Thoroton ) . f . 46d . 6. Mon. Angl . iv . 576 . 9. Red Bk . cclx . 23 Hen . II , 134. 12. Ibid . 14. Ibid . 33 Hen . II , 55 . 17. Rot . de Dominabus , pass . Anglic . vi . 1132. 20. Ibid . 1128. 21. R. de Fin . 555 . 20-22 Hen . II , pass . 23. Pipe R. 2 Ric . , m . 9 . 25. R. de Fin . 249. 26. Cal . Inquis . i . 17 ; Testa , 28. R. de Oblat . 90 . 29. Ibid . 126 . 31. Pipe R. 10 John , m . 19. 32. R. de Fin . 320 ; 33. R. Chart . 1586. 34. R. Lit. Claus . i . 50 . 


 18. Abbrev . Placit . 70 , 95 . 


 55 . 


 16. Ibid . 19. Mon. 22. Pipe R. 24. R. Norman . 97 . 105. 27. R. Chart . 30. R. de Fin . 319 . Pipe R. 8 John , m . 3d . 35. Pipe R. 12 John , m . 4. 36. Mon. Anglic . iv . 207b . 37. Testa , 166 , 17b , 196. 38. See Blomefield's Norfolk , i . 490-2 , iv . 524 ; Thoroton's Notts . ( ed . Throsby ) , iii . 26-7 . 39. Bk . of Fees , 129 . 40. Ibid . 279 . 41. Ibid . 591 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 132] ===
 
 
 116 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 42. Cal . Chart . R. i . 49. Cf. ibid . p . 223 ; Fines of Divers Counties , 283-9 , n . 55 ; Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 403 . 43. Close R. 340 . 44. Ibid . 319 . 45. Testa , 20b . 46. Close R. 251. 47. Norf . Feet of F. 93 , 98. 48. Cal . of Miscel . Inquis . i . 248 . 49. R. Hund . i . 462 , 537b . 50. Norf . Feet of F. p . 125 . 51. Placit . 28 Edw . I , Trin . , no . 77d . ( Blomefield , iv . 530 ) . 52. Feud . Aids , iii . 403 , 408-9 , 439 . 53. Ibid . 424 . 54. Ibid . iv . 205 , 209. 55. Cal . Inquis . vi . 52. 56. Cal . Fine R. v . 520 . 57. Cal . Inquis . ix . 260. 58. Ibid . x . 322. 59. Ibid . 503 . 


 
 
 XL . 


 Humphrey held of Robert son of Corbucion 1 carucate in Loddon , land in Long Stratton ( n . 45 ) and I carucate in Ingelose ( ' Golosa ' ) . 


 
 
 Hervey de Ingelose attested the charter of William earl of Chichester founding the priory of Buckenham.1 It was found by the inquest of sheriffs in 1170 that Hervey de Ingelose gave scutage to the earl of Arundel by writ de ultra mare of the last army of France , namely £ 4 for 4 fees.2 William de Ingelose gave a parcel of land to the nuns of Bungay 3 and was tenant with 6 others in 1208-9 in a fine wherein Gilbert abbot of Langley was demandant , touching three - fourths of the church of Loddon.4 


 
 
 4 


 Upon the division of the Arundel inheritance the service of this tenement appears to have been assigned to Roger de Mohaut . Blomefield's continuator states that the above William de Ingelose was father of Hervey Ingelose , whose son Martin de Ingelose held in 1275 of Robert de Mohaut ( sic ) fee in Ingelose , Norfolk.5 Reginald son of William de Ingelos gave land in Loddon to Langley abbey , and confirmed some gifts . Reginald was too infirm in 1278 to receive arms and knighthood . " John son of Reginald de Ingelose made a release to the abbot of Langley ; he is named in 1286,9 1300 10 and 1302.11 


 
 
 John de Ingelose held fee in Loddon ( and Hardley ) in 1302 of Robert de Mohaut of his manor of Rising , 12 and Robert de Welhorne held fee in Stratton of the said John , who held as above.¹ 14 His son Robert de Ingelose was a knight in 1323.14 


 13 


 
 
 In 1335 the service of John de Ingelose in Loddon and Stratton was conveyed by Robert de Morlee , kinsman and heir of Robert de Mohaut , to queen Isabella.15 


 
 
 In 1346 Roger de Halesworth and other feoffees held fee in Loddon and Hardley of dame Isabel , the king's mother , as pertaining to Castle Rising , which John de Ingelose formerly held.16 


 6 


 The Charles family of Loddon descended from one Carolus de Jernemuth , whose chapel at his court ' in ' Lodnes ' was sanc tioned by the convent of Langley subject to the usual provision that no injury was thereby done to their church of Loddon . The chapel was to be maintained by Charles and his heirs at their own expense ; the chaplains on appointment were to take oath that the oblations made at the chapel should be given to the parish church.17 Charles de Jernemue and William his brother were concerned in a Yarmouth dispute in 1223.1 18 Richard son of Stephen de Lodnes gave to Langley lands which his brother Geoffrey 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 133] ===
 
 
 LODDON , INGLOSE - SNETTERTON , HUNSTANTON 117 


 had ( in 1241 ) purchased from Roger de Walesham and the homage and service of William son of Charles.19 Sir William ( son of ) Charles de Jernemuth gave the same house two pieces of land in Loddon and Heckingham.20 By 1263 part of the Ingelose fee appears to have been alienated to William Charles ( or his predecessors ) , who in that year had a charter of free warren in Loddon , Sisland and Mundham , Norfolk , Kettleburgh and Easton , Suffolk.21 Two years later he had a grant of market and fair at Sisland and Kettleburgh and of fair at Loddon.22 


 
 
 In 1288 Edward son of Sir William Charles , in conjunction with Alice [ de Ketelburgh ] his wife , acquired the Beauchamp manor in Loddon , 23 and in 1292 Edward Charles , king's yeoman , obtained a grant of free warren in Loddon , Sisland , Mundham , Hardley and six other places in Norfolk , and in Kettleburgh , Easton , and six other places in Suffolk.24 In 1329 Edmund son and heir of Edward Charles succeeded to the manor of Loddon of the abbot of Langley and Robert de Ingelose by service unknown ; he had held it and other manors for some years by his father's grant.25 


 
 
 1. Cal . Chart . R. iii . 368 ; Mon. Anglic . vi . 419. 2. Red Bk . cclxxi . 3. Dugdale's Monasticon , i . 515. 4. Norf . Feet of F. p . 29 . Inquis . ii . 84. 6. Chartulary , Add . MS . 5948 , ff . 25d , 32 . Close R. 514 . 9. Placit . de quo war . 2136. 10. Cal . of Anct . D. , ii . C. 2534 . 11. Cal . Chart . R. iii , 34. 12. Feud . Aids , iii . 433. 13. Ibid . 413. 14. Cal . of Anct . D. i . C. 707 , ii . A. 3583. 15. Cal . Pat . R. 130 . 16. Feud . Aids , iii . 501. 17. Chartulary , Add . MS . 5948 , f . 26d . Blome 18. Pat . R. 394. 19. Ibid . 21. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 49 . 22. Ibid . 53 . 24. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 412. 25. Cal . 


 field calls him ' Charles son of William . ' 


 f . 44d . 20. Ibid . f . 29 . 23. Blomefield , Norf . x . 154 . Inquis . vii . 159 . 


 
 
 5. Cal . 


 7. Cal . 


 
 
 XLI . 


 Ralph son of Herluin in 1086 held 3 virgates and 5 acres in Snetterton ; he was also tenant of Roger Bigod in Snetterton , Tottington and elsewhere ; John nephew of Waleran had 4 caru cates in Ringstead and 2 carucates in Hunstanton . 


 3 


 Ralph , son of Herlwin gave land to Thetford priory . He was also described as Ralph de Hunstanton , and by his wife Helewise , daughter of Hugh de Plaiz of Barnham , Suffolk , he had issue Simon Fitz - Ralph and Reginald le Brun , who both died without issue , and Matilda le Brun , who married Roland le Strange² and had issue John le Strange of Hunstanton and others . In the time of Stephen Reginald le Brun attested the charter of William earl of Chichester founding the priory of Buckenham . Roland , dean of Holme next Ringstead , is mentioned in the Ramsey char tulary as living temp . Stephen.5 In 1192 Robert de Mortemer proffered 30 marks for the right of 5 fees ( as below ) against John L'Estrange ; but he had not right . In 1195 there was a plea in the king's court between Robert de Mortemer , plaintiff , and John L'Estrange , tenant , respecting 5 fees in Hunstanton , Tottington , Ringstead and Snetterton , followed by a fine whereby Robert acknowledged that the land was the right of the said John ; for 


 6 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 134] ===
 
 
 118 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 8 


 this and for £ 100 John gave Robert the land in Tottington , to be held of him for I fee , less a twentieth part , saving the church , which John gave with Robert's assent to the nuns of Campesse , and saving the service of 9 tenants in the same vill . ' Eyton cites from the chartulary of Binham a charter of John Le Strange granting ( prior to 1174 ) to St. Mary's , Binham , for the health of the souls of Henry II , queen , Eleanor and her children , and for the health of William , earl of Arundel , his lord , and queen Adeliza , the whole fee that Ralph de Hunestaneston sometime had in the vill of Edgefield , his son Simon after him , then Simon's brother , Reginald le Brun , to whom respectively the donor was heir and lawful successor . Edgefield had been given to Binham long before ( namely ante 1136 ) by Simon son of Ralph ( de Hunestaneston ) for a small rent , whose gift was duly confirmed by William de Aubigny I the butler , Matilda his first wife , and his son William , for the soul of Roger Bigot and his wife ; the witnesses being Geoffrey de Merlay ( n . 39 ) , Reginald , Odo de Nueres , Ralph the sewer , Herbert the clerk , William Veltre ( n . 46 ) , William Revel , Morel and Anesgot the chamberlain ( n . 49 ) .9 A good pedigree of L'Estrange will be found in Eyton's History of Salop ( x , 262–3 ) . Doubtless these 5 fees were assigned to the pourparty of Roger de Mohaut in 1244 . 


 
 
 3 


 In 1219 John L'Estrange had a suit with Geoffrey Baynard and Cassandra his wife touching his free tenement in Hunstanton.¹ In 1231 John L'Estrange was in possession of this fee in Hunstan ton.11 In 1242-3 his son John held fee in Hunstanton , Holme and ' Hoverbrok ' of the honor of Mileham.12 Eyton states that he died about February 1269. His son John was in 1271 one of the heirs of Roger de Someri in right of his wife Joan , daughter and co - heir of the said Roger.13 In 1275 John L'Estrange held of Robert de Mohaut 5 fees in Hunstanton , Gayton , Snetterton , Ringstead , and Holme - next - the - Sea , alias Hale Holme , 14 and in the same year the service of these fees was assigned to the dower of Joan late the wife of the said Robert.¹ 


 15 


 In 1302 John L'Estrange held 2 fees in Hunstanton of Robert de Mohaut , one of the heirs of Hugh , formerly earl of Arundel ; William Bataille and the tenants of the land late of Emma de Brun ham held fee in Great Ringstead and Holme of Walter de Calthorpe and he of John L'Estrange ( as above ) ; William de Bukenham and the tenants of the land late of Matilda , sister of the said Emma , held fee in the same places of Walter de Calthorpe ( as above ) ; Hugh de Bukenham held fee in Snetterton of Geoffrey de Kesildele and two others held each fee there of the said Hugh , who held of John L'Estrange ( as above ) .16 


 20 


 
 
 10 


 
 
 3 


 John L'Estrange also held fee in Hunstanton and Holme of Edmund Fitz - Alan , as of the manor of Mileham ; and other tenants held fee in ( a ) Wesenham of the fee of Arundel and fee in ( b ) South Pickenham of the fee of Mileham , whereof John L'Estrange and John Arsyk each alleged that they were mesne tenants ( a ) of the earl of Arundel and ( b ) of Edmund Fitz - Alan.17 


 4 


 Possibly the following tenements named in the returns of the 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 135] ===
 
 
 SNETTERTON , TOTTINGTON - STOKE HOLY CROSS 119 


 aid levied in 1302 belonged to this fee or to that of Mileham : Isabel L'Estrange and 3 others ( named ) held I fee in Longham and Cotes of the earl of Arundel ; John Arsik held fee in Great Dunham of the same earl ; and Robert de Felton held fee in Litcham of John L'Estrange de la Marche ' and he of the earl of Arundel.18 


 
 
 In 1317 Margaret late wife of Sir Hamon L'Estrange of Hun stanton made terms with Iseult late wife of John L'Estrange of Knockin for wardship of the lands of Hamon son and heir of Sir Hamon , a minor aged 4 years , or of Edmund , Hamon's younger brother , if the latter died in his minority . Neither of these youths lived to succeed , and in 1335 the service of John L'Estrange in Hunstanton , Tottington , Snetterton , Ringstead and Holme , and that of William de Bokenham in Ellingham , were conveyed by Robert de Morlee , kinsman and heir of Robert de Mohaut , to Queen Isabella.20 


 
 
 19 


 
 
 1. Mon. Anglic . v . 149b . 2. Chartul . of Castleacre , f . 28. 3. R. Cur . Regis , i . 20 , 23 ff .; Abbrev . Placit . 5 , 100. See Eyton's Salop , x . 262-3 , and Warenne , n . 22. 4. Cal . Chart . R. iii . 369. 5. Op . cit . ii . 271 , 276 ff . 6. Pipe R. 4 Ric . m . 2d . 7. Feet of F. ( Pipe R. Soc . xvii . ) , 61. 8. Cott . MS . , Claud . D. xiii . f . 87 . 9. Ibid . f . 90 . 11. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 591. 12. Testa , 289b . 14. Cal . Inquis . ii . 84. 15. Cal . Close R. 215 . 17. Ibid . 417 , 447 . 18. Ibid . 416 . Pat . R. 130 . 


 10. Excerpt . Fin . i . 26 . 13. Cal . Inquis . i . 258 . 16. Feud . Aids , iii . pass . 19. Cal . Close R. 582. 20. Cal . 


 
 
 XLII . 


 Gifart held of Robert son of Corbucion in 1086 1 carucate in Stoke Holy Cross , land in Fritton and Haddiscoe , Norfolk . 


 2 


 William de Chesnei was sheriff of Norfolk and Suffolk from Easter 1157 to Michaelmas 1163 , when he was removed , owing great debts to the Crown . In 1170 the land of William de Chesnei ( de Caisneto ) of Stoke gave to the earl of Arundel 20s . by the king's writ and 20s . to Ralph ( de Munchenesy ) .¹ It may be surmised that this fee passed to Matilda de Chesnei , who married before 1167 Henry Fitz - Gerold , and to their younger son Henry , whose son Warin Fitz - Gerold held in 1244 in Haddiscoe and Fritton fee of the fee of Arundel which was then assigned to the pourparty of Robert de Tateshale.3 The Norfolk fines record an instance in which Warin Fitz - Gerold was vouched to warranty in 1239-40 by Robert de Insula and Alice his wife , which Alice was sister and eventually heir of Warin . In 1260 there was a fine between Gerald de L'Isle and Robert de L'Isle and Alice his wife respecting land in Mundford 5 of the fee of the Earl Marshal , and two years later a fine of the manor of Mundford between the same Gerald and Alice . 


 
 
 After this period this fee is found in the holding of the families of Rikinghale , Burtoft and Gylingham . In 1263 John de Vaux obtained a grant of free warren in Stoke Holy Cross ( Cruchestok ' ) , Norfolk . In 1273 Adan de Burtoft held fee ( in Fritton ) of Robert de Tateshale as of his castle of Buckenham . Robert de Gylingham owed suit in 1275 in Loddon hundred.8 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 136] ===
 
 
 120 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 4 


 In 1302 Ralph de Burtoft held fee in Fritton ; Richard de Rikinghale and his parceners fee in Stoke Holy Cross of William Talbot and he of William Pecche ; John de Witton held fee in Stoke Holy Cross of Hugh Pecche ; Robert de Gylyngham and the prior of St. Olave alias the prior of Cluny held fee in Haddiscoe ; Petronilla de Vaux held fee in Stoke Holy Cross ( Cruchestok ' ) . These all held of Robert de Tateshale.10 In 1305 the fee in Haddiscoe held by the prior of St. Olave was assigned in dower to Eva late the wife of Robert de Tateshale and her then husband 


 9 


 6 


 
 
 John de Cove . " ¹ In 1309 the service of Ralph de Buretoft of 1 fee in Fritton was assigned to the dower of Joan late the wife of Robert de Tateshale , and that of Petronilla de Vaux of fee in Cruchestoke ' to the pourparty of John de Orreby and Isabel his wife.12 It is possible that this last tenement was not held of the fee of Arundel , for in 1273 dame Margery de Creike held fee in Thorpe Holy Cross ( West - thorpe ' ) of Robert de Tateshale , who held of the king in chief.13 


 1 


 
 
 ، 


 
 
 1 


 2 


 
 
 1. Inquest of Sheriffs ; Red Bk . cclxxi . 2. Rev. H. E. Salter , Eynsham Chartul . i . 422-3 . 3. Close R. 248. 4. Op . cit . p . 64. 5. Feet of F. , Norf . , 44 Hen . III . 6. Ibid . 46 Hen . III . 7. Cal . Inquis . ii . 4. 8. R. Hund . i . 470 . Herringfleet . 10. Feud . Aids , iii , pass . 11. Cal . Close R. 239 . 12. Ibid . I0I - 2 . Cf. Cal . Inquis . iv . 105-6 , 261 . 13. Cal . Inquis . ii . 4 ; Cal . Close R. 101-2 . 


 9 . 


 
 
 XLIII . 


 Ranulf in 1086 held of Robert son of Corbucion I carucate in Sandringham . Peter de Valoignes had 2 manors in Dersingham each of 2 carucates , and he held 12 acres here of Roger Bigod , who had also 4 carucates and 35 acres here ; Rinoldus held a manor here of Eudes son of Spiruwin . 


 Some portion of these lands passed subsequently to the fee of Arundel . The priory of Binham was endowed of the church and other property here by the family of Valoignes . In 1166 Peter de Valoignes held 2 fees of William de Aubigny the butler of his demesne of Norfolk , ¹ and in that year Godwin de Dersingham was amerced.2 In 1170 the men of the earl of Arundel gave for the land of William de Curci of Dersingham 43 marks for many armies.3 William de Curci's interest in Dersingham was through his wife Gundreda de Warenne , whose first husband , Peter de Valoignes , had endowed her of it prior to his decease before 1165. For further details of this lady's marriages see the notes on the honor of Stoke Curcy ( vol . i , 112 ) . William de Curci died in 1171 , but his widow survived until 1224. In 1219 she was of the king's gift , her land in Dersingham being worth £ 30 a year . In 1225 the sheriff of Suffolk was ordered to give seisin to Hugh de Nevill and Joan his wife and to Margaret de Rivers of what belonged to them by inheritance of the land late of Gundreda de Warenne in Little Fakenham , Suffolk.5 Land in Fakenham , Norfolk , belonged to the barony of Valoignes , but what Gundreda held there represented her maritagium . The major part of Great ( ? ) Fakenham was an 


 4 


 6 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 137] ===
 
 
 SANDRINGHAM , DERSINGHAM - BEDINGHAM 121 


 
 
 8 


 I 


 9 


 escheat of the Normans and was given by king John in 1207 to William earl of Arundel . The writ of 1225 did not apply to this fee , which was of the inheritance of the heirs of Valoignes and was soon after in the hands of the heirs of Dersingham , namely Henry Baillol , Peter de Mauule ( de Malo Lacu ) and David Cumyn , in right of their wives , who in 1242-3 held 1 fee in Dersingham . In 1244 the service of 1 fee in Dersingham and Sandringham , held by the heirs of Christiana de Maundevill , was assigned to the pourparty of Robert de Tateshale . Christiana daughter and heir of Robert Fitz - Walter by his wife Gunnora de Valoignes , heiress of the barony of Valoignes , was the relict of William de Maundevill , earl of Essex . She died without issue , shortly before 17 June 1232 , her heirs being Lora , Christiana and Isabel , daughters of William de Valoignes and second cousins of Christiana de Maundevill.10 In 1270 William Comyn , son and heir of David , passed by fine to John de Pakenham his interest in Dersingham . In 1302 William de Pakenham and the prior of Binham held 1 fee in Dersingham of Robert Fitz - Walter , as of the honor of Arundel ; 12 Peter son of Robert ( de Snetesham ) and others held fee in Sandringham of the same honor.13 Isabel de Derham held fee in Dersingham of Philip son of Robert , 14 of what fee is not stated . In 1305 John de Cove and Eva his wife , late the wife of Robert de Tateshale , had dower assigned inter alia infee in Sandringham held by Peter de Snetesham and fee in Dersingham held by Isabel de Veteri Aula.15 In 1308 and 1309 the prior of Binham and Edmund de Pakenham held 1 fee in Der singham which was assigned to the pourparty of Joan de Driby.16 In 1315 these two and John de Gelham were joint lords of Dersing ham.17 In 1351 Edmund de Pakenham died seised of the manor of Dersingham held jointly with Mary his wife of Adam de Clyfton 18 knt . , one of the heirs of Tateshale.19 


 11 


 
 
 1. Red Bk . 398 . 


 2. Pipe R. 14 Hen . II , p . 30. 3. Red Bk . cclxxi . 4. Testa , 3846. 5. R. Lit. Claus . ii . 37. 6. Testa , 2926. 7. R. Lit. Claus . i . 91b , 455b . 8. Testa , 283. 9. Close R. 248. 10. See Mr. Round , Ancestor , xi . 133. 11. Norf . Feet of F. 109 . 12. Feud . Aids , iii . 408 , 523. 13. Ibid . 408. 14. Ibid . 15. Cal . Close R. 239. 16. Ibid . 100 ; Cal . Inquis . iv . 261. 17. Abbrev . Placit . 321b ; Feud . Aids , iii . 449 . 18. Cal . Inquis . ix . 434 . 19. See Ibid . 397 . 


 
 
 XLIV . 


 
 
 Nigel held of Robert son of Corbucion in 1086 30 acres of land in Shelton , 30 acres in Mundham and I carucate in Tharston ; the king had in Bedingham 2 carucates and in Woodton 1 carucate ; Hugh de Corbun held of Roger Bigod carucate in Osmundeston ; all in Norfolk . 


 Ι 


 
 
 Robert de Selton was amerced in 1175 , ¹ and was involved in 1194 in a plea of land in Shelton . William de Selton owed 2 marks of scutage in Norfolk in 1201,3 and Ranulf de Selton attested a charter of William earl of Sussex III to the canons of Bucken ham . In 1223 Richard de Seinges claimed the advowson of the 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 138] ===
 
 
 122 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 church of St. Adelbert in Mundham against Ranulf de Shelton , who said that the advowson remained to him and his father Robert by fine made in the court of Richard I between them and Alan de Mundham , and Robert had presented his clerk in the time of John bishop of Norwich . Richard claimed it as being on the fee which he had in marriage with Matilda his wife.5 


 6 


 9 


 Ranulf de Selton married before 1226 Katherine daughter and heir of Henry de Illegh , " who held 2 fees of the abbot of St. Edmund and 3 fees of the honor of Helyun in Brent Eleigh , Suffolk . " See St. Edmund , n . 4. It appears that they had issue Henry de Shelton , who held 3 fees in Brent Eleigh , Suff . , in 1242-3 of the king in chief . The service of 3 fees of the same Henry held of the honor of Buckenham was assigned in dower in 1243 to Isabel late the wife of Hugh earl of Arundel , and in the ensuing year the service of these 3 fees in Shelton held by Henry de Shelton was assigned to the pourparty of Robert de Tateshale.10 A Henry de Shelton of Norfolk and Olive his wife are named in 1258.11 Henry de Shelton died in 1271 holding the manor of Eleigh for 3 fees in chief as of the honor of Helyon ; the manor of Bedingham with Woodton , Norf . , held of the fee of Arundel for fee ; the manor of Shelton similarly held for fee , and land in Osmundeston similarly held for fee ; Robert his son was aged 25 years and more , 12 and had livery of his father's land the same year.13 


 1 


 1 


 4 


 2 


 
 
 In 1275 the subescheator was presented for taking the goods late . of Henry de Shelton from the manor of Osmundeston , and Isabel late wife of the said Henry for marrying Adam de Heyth without the king's licence , by reason that Henry had held of the king the manor of Brent Eleigh.14 In 1286 Robert de Shelton and Walter de Pavely were joint patrons of the church of Stutton , Suff.15 The former was removed from office of coroner of Suffolk in 1291,16 and was one of the keepers of the coast near Dunwich in 1295 . 


 17 


 1 


 4 


 1 


 2 


 In 1302 Robert de Shelton held fee in Shelton ; Richard de Therston fee in Tharston of Robert de Shelton ; Sir Richard de Shelton fee in Bedingham and Woodton ; all these held of Robert de Tateshale , 18 at whose death it was found that Robert de Shelton held of him 3 fees in Shelton , Bedingham , Osmundeston and Mund ham.19 Robert de Shelton and Isabel his wife , Thomas and Henry their sons , made settlements of the manor and advowson of Osmundeston and land in Shelton in 1306.20 Robert died the same year , and on 12 November John his son and heir had livery of his father's lands , 21 and an order was made for assignment of dower to Isabel late wife of the same Robert.22 The inquisition taken after the death of Robert de Shelton shows that he held the manor of Shelton jointly with Isabel his wife in tail of the heirs of Robert de Tateshale for fee ; land in Bedingham jointly with his said wife and Robert their son for their respective lives of the same heirs for fee ; and the manor of Osmundeston jointly with his said wife , Thomas and Henry their sons , for their respective lives of the same heirs for 


 4 


 fee ; and also the manor of Brent Eleigh , Suff . , of the king in chief as of the honor of Helyun for 3 fees ; John his eldest son and heir was of full age.23 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 139] ===
 
 
 BEDINGHAM , WOODTON - BROOME , BLO ' NORTON 123 


 Among the fees assigned in dower to Alice late wife of Roger le Bygod , earl of Norfolk , in 1307 was I fee in Shelton and Hardwick held by John de Shelton.24 In 1309 the 3 fees held by Robert ( sic ) de Shelton in Shelton , Bedingham , Osmundeston ( alias Scole ) and Mundham were assigned in dower to Joan late the wife of Robert de Tateshale . 25 In 1316 Robert ( sic ) de Shelton held 3 fees in Shelton , Broome and Bedingham of Isabella de Aubigny , countess of Arundel , as of her manor of Wymondham , 26 and in that year John son of John de Shelton , John son of Robert de Shelton and John de Sturmy knt . were returned as the respective lords of Fritton with Shelton and Hardwick ; John de Uvedale and Robert de Shelton being lords of Bedingham.27 


 
 
 John de Shelton died early in 1333 , holding lands in Norfolk , Suffolk , Cambridge , Huntingdon , Essex and Hertford.28 Dower was not assigned to Margaret his wife , because she had long withdrawn from her late husband and had long stayed with her paramour.29 The wardship of Ralph , son and heir of John de Shelton , in respect of the lands in Brent Eleigh and elsewhere , was granted to the bishop of Norwich.30 The same year died Alice , late the wife of John son of John de Shelton , deceased , holding lands in Shelton for life of the inheritance of Ralph son and heir of John de Shelton , tenant in chief of Joan , late the wife of Robert de Tateshale the younger , for I fee and suit at her court of Buckenham ; Ralph son of John de Shelton knt . , aged 18 in August 1334 , was her next heir.31 It would thus appear that John son of Robert de Shelton had two sons , the above - named John ( s.p. ) , whose widow died in 1333 , and Ralph , who had livery of his father's lands in 1337.3 


 Ι 


 32 


 One or two other families bearing the local name were found in this fee . In 1216 Nicholas de Selton obtained the king's grace and delivered his son Robert as a hostage.33 In 1240 Robert son of Henry de Shelton and Jordan de Shelton made a final agreement about land in Shelton.34 Several of the name of Nicholas occur at later dates as holders of land in this fee . 


 
 
 1. Pipe R. 21 Hen . II , p . 130 . 2. R. Cur . Regis , i . 120 , 133 . 3. R. Cancel . 318. 4. Cal . Chart . R. iii . 369. 5. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 1618. 6. Red Bk . 358 , 601. 7. Excerpt . e R. Fin . i . 138. 8. Testa , 2916. 9. Close R. 112. 10. Ibid . 248. 11. Excerpt . e R. Fin . ii . 291 . 12. Cal . Inquis . i . 247. 13. Excerpt . e R. Fin . ii . 532 . 


 i . 524 . 


 14. R. Hund . 15. Placit . de quo war . 7246. 16. Cal . Close R. 161. 17. Ibid . 456. 18. Feud . Aids , iii . pass . 19. Cal . Inquis . iv . 105. 20. Norf . Feet of F. i . 167–8 . 21. Cal . of Fine R. i . 541 , 545. 22. Cal . Close R. 23. Cal . Inquis . iv . 248 . 24. Cal . Close R. 512 . 25. Ibid . 26. Cal . Inquis . vi . 41 . 27. Feud . Aids , iii . 477 , 479. 28. Cal . 


 413 . 


 102 . 


 Fine R. iv . 344. 29. Ibid . 351. 30. Ibid . 358. 31. Ibid . 376 , 400 ; 


 33. R. Litt . Claus . i . 254b . 


 Cal . Inquis . vii . 405. 32. Cal . Close R. 15 . 34. Norf . Feet of F. i . p . 61 . 


 
 
 XLV . 


 Humphrey in 1086 held of Robert son of Corbucion in Broome 2 carucates , Loddon acre , Long Stratton 2 carucates ; Brant held of the same Robert 82 a . in Barningham ; Alvred the Englishman held of Roger Bigod 1 carucate in Norton in Guiltcross hundred . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 140] ===
 
 
 124 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 In 1170 it was presented that William Malerbe gave to the earl of Arundel after king ( Henry ) crossed the sea ( in March 1166 ) £ 7 from 3½ fees for the king's army.¹ This may refer to this fee . In 1186 Joscelin de Brome was amerced for a new disseisin in Norfolk.2 In 1197 the countess Gundreda ( Bigod ) summoned Roger de Brom to warrant to her of the charter of William his father touching land in Wainford , Suff.3 In the same year Roger de Brom and William de Pirnho made an agreement for the division between them of a mill in Pirnough , Norf.4 Roger de Brom attested a charter of William earl of Sussex III to the abbey of Robert's Bridge . In 1233-4 Agnes late the wife of Richard de Brom was demandant in a fine of lands in Broome , Thwaite , Loddon and Mundham . Roger de Brom was placed in charge of Castle Rising ( quære the castle of Buckenham ) in 1234 until Hugh de Aubigny should attain his full age . In 1242-3 William de Brome held fee in Hopton , Suff . , of the earl of Arundel.8 


 5 


 6 


 77 


 
 
 In 1243 the service of 3 fees held by William de Brom was assigned to the dower of Isabel late the wife of Hugh de Aubigny , earl of Arundel , as of the honor of Buckenham ; 9 and in the follow ing year the service of the same William in Broome and Blo ' Norton was assigned to the pourparty of Roger de Somery and Nicholaa his wife.10 In 1255 William de Brom had exemption from being put on juries and assizes , 11 and in the ensuing year had respite of knighthood for 3 years.12 It was presented in 1275 that Ralph , son of earl Hugh Bigod and the countess Matilda , granted to William de Brom the amercements of his homage in the soke of Stockton , Norf .; 13 that fee alienated by Robert de Tateshale in the time of Henry II , was then held of William de Brom.14 In 1280 Roger de Brom and Margery his wife were ejected from land in Roxeth , Mids.15 In 1283 Roger de Brom committed trespass at Stoke Ferry , Norf . , 16 and in 1287 he was in the Welsh expedition.17 


 3 


 4 


 In 1302 Roger de Brom held the manor of Broome , Norf . , for fee of the fee of Roger de Somery of his pourparty of the honor of Arundel , fee in Blo ' Norton of the same fee ; Walter de Berningham fee in Barningham of the same Roger de Brom , who held of the heirs of Somery of the fee of Arundel.18 In the same year Roger de Brom knt . attested a charter of earl Roger Bigod , ¹º and in 1304 the heir of Roger de Brom , in the king's wardship , held 24 fees in Broome , and Petronilla late wife of the same Roger held 


 fee in Blo ' Norton of Robert de Tateshale II.20 Roger de Brom held at his death ( in January 1304 ) the manor of Broome for 23 fees of the heir of Robert de Tateshale II , as of the honor of Buckenham , and a messuage in Blo ' Norton , held by his wife Petronilla , for fee as above ; William his son was aged 9 years.21 In 1305 John de Cove and Eva his wife , late the wife of Robert de Tateshale , obtained as assignment of her dower inter alia the fee held by Petronilla de Brom in Blo ' Norton and 21 fees in Broome held by the heirs of Roger de Brom.22 


 
 
 In 1316 William de Brom was lord of Broome and Petronilla de Brom lady of Blo ' Norton and joint lady of Walsham.23 In 1346 Robert de Brom and Roger his son held fee in Broome of the heirs 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 141] ===
 
 
 BROOME , BLO ' NORTON - BURNHAM 125 


 
 
 of Somery of this honor . 24 In 1350 the heir of Roger de Brom ( sic ) held 21 fees in Broome and Pernel late wife of Roger de Brom ( sic ) held fee in Blo ' Norton of Eva late wife of Robert de Tateshale.25 


 
 
 1. Red Bk . cclxxii . ( Pipe R. Soc . xxiii . ) 35 . also Cal . Chart . R. iii . 369 . Fin . i . 250 ; Pat . R. 35 . 11. Cal . Pat . R. 445 . 


 2. Pipe R. 32 Hen . II , p . 65. 3. Feet of F. 4. Ibid . xx . 97 . See 5. Mon. Anglic . v . 668 . 6. Norf . Feet of F. i . 55. 7. Excerpt . e R. 8. Testa , 293 . 9. Close R. 112. 10. Ibid . 13. R. Hund . i . 467b . 


 252 . 


 12. Ibid . 468 . 


 14. Ibid . 4836. 15. Cal . Pat . R. 413. 16. Cal . Pat . R. 90. 17. Ibid . 274. 18. Feud . Aids , iii . pass . 19. Cal . Chart . R. iii . 34. 20. Cal . Inquis . iv . 106. 21. Ibid . 157 . Cf. Cal . Close R. 125. 22. Ibid . 239-40 . 23. Feud . Aids , iii . pass . 24. Ibid . 500 . 25. Cal . Inquis . ix . 397 . 


 
 
 XLVI . 


 The king had in 1086 in Burnham in Gallow hundred , of the land which Godric kept , 3 carucates and 2 berewicks each of 1 carucate ; sochmen held I carucate . In Greenhoe hundred the king had 1 carucate in Holkham and carucate in Warham ; also land in Wighton . 


 
 
 Before 1107 William le Veltre attested a charter of Peter de Valoignes to Binham , ¹ and before 1135 a charter of William de Aubigny to the monks of Wymondham ; 2 William Veltrier held in 1166 of William de Aubigny the butler 3 fees of his demesne of Norfolk . It was presented in 1170 that when the earl of Arundel came from over seas , by the king's writ which he carried William le Velter gave the earl's bailiff 60s . from 3 shields ( scuta ) of the last army of France and nothing more after the king ( again ) passed over seas.4 William le Veutre II gave to the priory of Walsingham the church of St. Clement of Burnham ( Overey ) .5 He was also a benefactor to the monastery of Wymondham . In 1185 he was in debted to Deulebencie the Jew of Rising , and in 1192 owed £ 114 10s . 8d . on his land of Burnham . In 1201 he accounted for £ 109 178. 8d . due to the Jews on his land of Burnham by a charter and for £ 77 9s . Id .; he paid 2 marks and owed £ 186 10s . Id . , of which Richer de Saxlingham , Geoffrey de Reindon , Hugh de Illeie , Adam de Burneham and Reginald le Moine ought to pay 5 marks yearly . Probably these 5 were his sons - in - law , for in 1226 an inquiry was ordered as to what liberties William le Valtre had , whose daughters and heirs Richer ( Ric's ) de Saxlingham , Geoffrey de Reydon , William son of Adam , Reginald le Moine and Hugh de Hillegh had taken to wife , on the day he took his way to Jerusalem , namely in the land of Burnham , the sea and port of Brunnemuth and the market of Burnham ; and what liberties Philip de Burnham , father of Ralph de Burnham , whose heir Ralph was ( Warenne , n . 23 ) , had there ; and of such liberties as the said William had the sheriff of Norfolk was to give seisin to the 5 heirs named above.10 


 9 


 In 1227 there was an assize between Ralph de Burneham , plain tiff , and Richer de Saxlingham , William son of Adam , Reginald le Moyne , Hugh de Illegh and Geoffrey de Rayndon , defendants , who had married the daughters and heirs of William le Veutre , touching William's rights in Burnham at the time he made his way to the 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 142] ===
 
 
 126 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 Holy Land ; Ralph recovered his seisin of a moiety of a marsh in Burnham called Terholme , which William le Veutre and Philip father of Ralph de Burnham had enjoyed in moieties.11 


 In 1244 the service of the 3 fees which the heirs of William le Veautre held in Burnham was assigned to the pourparty of Robert de Tateshale.12 Thomas de Sniterton and Matilda his wife are named in a fine of land in Shropham.13 Possibly Matilda was one of the daughters and coheirs of William le Veltre.14 According to a plea temp . Edw . I Thomas de Sniterton was son of Richard de Sniterton by Margery daughter and coheir of William le Veltre.15 This Richard de Sniterton may possibly be the same person as the Richard de Saxlingham of 1226 . 


 
 
 Richard son of Thomas de Sniterton was party to a fine of land in Tatterford in 1268,16 and four years later Richard de Sniterton made an agreement with Roger prior of Peterstrue touching land in Burnham.17 In 1272 Richard son of Thomas de Sniterton obtained a grant of market and fair at his manors of Tatterford and Burnham , Norf . , and at his manor of Stevington ( Waltons ) , Essex , and of free . warren in Burnham , Tatterford , Shereford and Rainham , Norf.18 It was presented in 1275 that William de Caletorp ( Warenne , n . 23 ) and Richard de Snitterton and his parceners in Burnham claimed wreck of the sea and view of frankpledge there ; 19 and that William de Caletorp made purprestures on the king by taking toll of ships and nets in the vill of Burnham and claimed a several marsh which was common to the homagers of Robert le Moyne and Reyner de Gymingham ; 20 these last - named held 2 fees in Burnham of the king in chief.21 Reiner de Gymingham was party to a fine of land in Burnham ‘ Ulp ' in 1269.22 It is reasonable to assume that he had inherited or acquired the pourparty of the fee held by William son of Adam de Burnham or Hugh de Illeigh in 1226. Richard de Sniterton died in 1275 , when dower was assigned to Christiana late his wife.23 In 1283 Richard de Sniterton , probably member of another branch of the family , held fee in Snetterton and Shropham of John le Marshal as of the barony of Rye.24 


 Thomas de Sneterton has been named above as son of Richard by Margery le Veltre . He was one of those appointed in 1298 in Norfolk and four other counties to inquire into ecclesiastical grievances , 25 and in 1301 he impleaded Robert de Reydon and 3 others for the manor of Denham , Suff.26 In 1302 he and his parceners held 3 fees in Burnham Overey and in the vills of Holk ham , Wighton and Warham of Robert de Tateshale of the fee of Arundel , 27 and they held the same of Robert de Tateshale II at his death in 1303.28 The service of 3 fees in Burnham held by Thomas de Sniterton and his parceners was assigned in 1305 to John de Cove and Eva his wife , late wife of Robert de Tateshale , towards her dower.29 Thomas de Sniterton was one of the lords of Burnham in 1316 , 30 knight of the shire for Norfolk in 1313 , and was removed from the office of coroner in 1314.31 In 1313 and 1316 he complained of the breaking of his close at Congham St. Mary by malefactors and the removal of the rolls touching his office of coroner.32 


 In 1346 Roger Breton and Alice his wife , John Veutre , Matilda 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 143] ===
 
 
 BURNHAM - BARKESTON - THORINGTON 127 


 
 
 Reynald and John her son , William de Calthorp and the prior of Walsingham held in Burnham with their tenements in Holkham , Wighton , and Warham in North Greenhoe hundred 3 fees of the heirs of Robert de Tateshale of this honor.33 


 
 
 4. Ibid . 


 7. Pipe R. 9. R. Canc . 326 . 


 1. Mon. Anglic . iii . 345 . 2. Ibid . 331. 3. Red Bk . 398 . cclxxiii . 5. Mon. Anglic . vi . 74 . 6. Ibid . iii . 324 . 31 Hen . II , p . 40 . 8. Pipe R. 3 Ric . I , Norf . 10. R. Lit. Claus . ii . 150. 11. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 1836. 12. Close R. 248. 13. Norf . Feet of F. i . 34. 14. Cf. Blomefield , Norfolk iii . 735 , 737. 15. Ibid . 16. Norf . Feet of F. i . 102. 17. Ibid . III . 18. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 182. 19. R. Hund . i . 454b . 20. Ibid . 5356. 21. Ibid . 535 . 22. Norf . Feet of F. i . 106 . 24. Cal . Inquis . ii . 282 . Marshall ; Testa , 27. Feud . Aids , 30. Feud . Aids , 33. Feud . 


 23. Cal . Close R. 181 . Which John son of Peter held in 1242-3 of Alina 2886. 25. Cal . Close R. 204. 26. Abbrev . Placit . 243 . 405. 28. Cal . Inquis iv . 105 . 29. Cal . Close R. 239 . iii . 460. 31. Cal . Close R. 67 , 120 . Aids , iii . 517 . 


 32. Cal . Pat . R. 54 , 496 . 


 
 
 XLVII . 


 Robert son of Corbucion had I carucate in Barkeston , Suff . , in 1086 . 


 In 1166 Roald the chamberlain held fee of William de Aubigny the butler of his demesne of Norfolk.¹ There is no evidence that Roald held this tenement in Barkeston , but the suggestion is made tentatively . 


 In 1244 the service of fee in Barkeston held by Guy de Bareston was assigned to the pourparty of Robert de Tateshale.2 In 1302 Ralph le Chantour , Arnold Bonde and Henry de Holefen held fee in Barkestone , in Carlford hundred , of the manor of Buckenham.3 


 1. Red Bk . 398. 2. Close R. 248. 3. Feud . Aids , v . 33 . 


 
 
 XLVIII . 


 Gifard held in 1086 of Robert son of Corbucion 2 carucates in Thorington , Suff . 


 For the descent of this fee see also St. Edmund's , n . 20. During the period 1146-1170 Richard de Wachesham attested a charter of Ralph son of Brien and Agnes his wife to the priory of Briset , Suff.¹ Gerbert de Merlingford is mentioned in 1161 as of Humble yard hundred , Norf.2 In 1166 Richard son of Osbert held 1 fee in Suffolk of the bishop of Ely , and fee of earl Hugh Bigod ; 4 Richard de Wicham ( recte Wrtham ) held } fee of the abbot of St. Edmunds . In 1170 it was presented that Osbert de Wechesham gave to Hubert de Ria 2 marks ( for aid ) for marrying his sister by the king's precept and 2 marks of aid and 4 marks for the king's use for the army in Wales . In 1182 Gerard de Wechesham owed 60 marks for a recognition against Richard de Clare touching the land of Merlingeford of the fee of St. Edmund , as to whether it descended from his grandfather or grandmother by whom ( quam ) Gerard claimed . " Temp . Richard I Osbert de Wachesham held I fee in Wortham , Suff . , and Marlingford , Norf . , and in 1196 he 


 8 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 144] ===
 
 
 128 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 acknowledged to abbot Samson scutage of the fee in those places . " In 1199 the same Osbert de Wechesham , a knight of the bishop of Ely , vouched to warranty the bishop of Ely in a plea wherein abbot Samson impleaded him for raising gallows and hanging people in the manor of Hitcham , of which Wattisham ( ' Wechesham ' ) was a member.10 In 10 John ( 1208-9 ) Osbert de Wachesham recovered seisin of common in Marlingford against Robert de Mortemer and others.11 In 1212 he held 1 fee of the bishop of Ely in Wattisham , Suff . , 12fee in Culpho , Suff . , of the honor of Lancaster , 13 and jointly with another he held fee of the honor of Henry de Essex.14 He withdrew from allegiance to king John , but in 1217 returned to allegiance of Henry III and had his lands restored in Norfolk , Suffolk and Cambridgeshire.15 


 
 
 19 


 Giles de Wachesham was party to a Norfolk fine in 1228,16 and two years later had letters of protection upon going over seas on the king's service with Richard de Argentuein.17 In 1235 he did homage . as son and heir of Isabel de Wachesham for 11 fee which his mother held in chief in Suffolk , 18 part being doubtless fee in Stanstead which the said Isabel held in 1219-26 of the honor of Hagenet.¹ About this date also Giles de Wachesham held 30 acres of land in Wattisham by serjeanty of making unum saltum , siffletum et pettum . ' In 1242-3 Giles de Wachesham held of the fee of St. Edmunds fee in Marlingford 21 and fee in Wortham.22 In 1244 the service of 2 fees in Thorington , Suff . , held by Giles de Wachesham was assigned to the dower of Isabel countess of Arundel , 23 and to the pourparty of Robert de Tateshale.2 Four years later Giles had a grant of free warren in Wattisham , Wortham , Thorington and Marlingford.25 He died in 1268 , Joan his wife holding Thorington in dower ; Giles his son was aged 40 years . 


 , 20 


 1 


 26 


 4 


 I 


 Giles the younger died in 1273 holding 13 fee in Thorington and fee in Greinsville ( which John de Tevetshale held of him ) of Robert de Tateshale ; Gerard his son was aged 19 years.27 In addition to this fee the deceased held the manor of Stanstead , Suff . , of the king in chief for I fee of the honor of Boulogne , the manor of Wattisham , held partly of Sir Peter de Taleworth for 1 fee and partly of the bishop of Ely for 1 fee ( the service to the deceased for tene ments held of the said manor amounting to 63 fees ) , the manor of Wortham , held partly of John le Marshal of the barony of Rye for 11 fee 28 and partly of the abbot of St. Edmunds for fee ( described elsewhere as 31 fees together ) , with the service belonging to the said manor ( ? ) in four places in Norfolk amounting to 11 fee.29 


 It was presented in 1275 that the heir of Giles de Wetesham claimed similar liberties ( in Marlingford ) in Forehoe hundred as Isabella countess of Arundel had in Wymondham ; 30 that the said Giles formerly held 1 fee in Stanstead which had been divided between two sisters , one being in the king's custody after Giles's death and the other held by John de Verdoun of the said Giles.31 The heir of the said Giles held a sixth part of the hamlet of Henney in the vill of Soham , Cambs . , of the prioress of Littlemore.32 


 
 
 24 


 
 
 In 1299 John de Bocland complained that Gerard de Wachesham , Giles de Wachesham son of Gerard , and Amice his wife and others 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 145] ===
 
 
 THORINGTON - CONGHAM , SNETTISHAM 129 


 
 
 34 


 entered his manor of Wattisham and took away his goods . 33 Gerard , being in the king's service in January 1297 , had respite of his suit of the court of Clare of Joan countess of Gloucester and Hertford.³ In 1308 Gerard de Wachesham held 2 fees in Wherstead ( ? Thoring ton ) of Robert son of Robert de Tateshale , 35 and in 1316 he held 2 fees in Thorington and Greinsvile of Isabel de Aubigny , countess of Arundel.36 In 1309 the service of 2 fees in Wherstead , Suff . , which Gerard de Wachesham held was assigned to the pourparty of Thomas de Cailly , 37 who died holding the same in 1324 , Giles de Wachesham being his tenant.38 In 1327 Giles held fee in Culpho of the honor of Lancaster.39 


 
 
 1 


 4 


 
 
 174b . 


 2. Pipe R. 7 Hen . II , p . 5. 3. Red Bk . 5. Ibid . 393. 6. Ibid . cclxxiv . 7. Pipe R. 8. Harl . MS . 1005 , f . 86b . 9. Ibid . 743 , f . 84b . 13. Ibid . 


 11. Ibid . 63b . 12. Red Bk . 527 . 15. R. Lit. Claus . i . 324 . 


 
 
 1. Mon. Anglic . vi . 365. 4. Ibid . 396 . 


 28 Hen . II , p . 72 . 10. Abbrev . Placit . 22 . 570 . 14. Ibid . 597 . 


 16. Op . cit . 47 . 19. Red Bk . 742. See 


 17. Pat . R. 361. 18. Excerpt . e R. Fin . i . 276 . Madox , Hist of Excheq . i . 652 , note u . 20. Testa , 286. 21. Ibid . 289 . 22. Ibid . 291 . 23. Close R. 112. 24. Ibid . 248. 25. Cal . Chart . R. i . 330 . 26. Cal . Inquis . i . 210-11 ; Excerpt . e R. Fin . ii . 475. 27. Cal . Inquis . ii . 10 , 83. 28. Described as 3 fees in 1316 ; Cal . Inquis . vi . 51 . 29. Ibid . 30. R. Hund . i . 445b . 31. Ibid . ii . 1426 . 32. Ibid . 502 . 33. Cal . Pat . R. 423 , 544 34. Cal . Close R. 55 . 35. Cal . Inquis . iv . 265. 36. Ibid . vi . 41. 37. Cal . Inquis . iv . 265 . 38. Ibid . vi . 287 . 


 39. Ibid . vii . 68 . 


 
 
 XLIX . 


 Land in Snettisham , Docking and Congham belonging to this fee may have formed part of the bishop of Bayeux's manor of Snettisham in 1086 . 


 
 
 I 


 4 


 In 1166 Ansgot the chamberlain held 1 fee of William de Aubigny the butler of his demesne of Norfolk.¹ Adam son of Ansgot had a grant of land beyond Ludham ( ? ) from Thomas abbot of St. Bennet of Holme ( 1168-86 ) .2 Roger son of Ansgot the chamberlain is mentioned in the Wymondham Chartulary , together with Ang his nepos.3 Ralph son of Ansgot gave to Wymondham land in Happisburgh for the soul of his lord and brother Roger son of Ansgot . Angot de Cangham , who had sons Roger ( with a son William , a priest ) , Ralph and Geoffrey , is named.5 Hugh de Milliers of Congham gave the priory tithes of his mill in Congham . " It was presented in 1170 that Robert son of Ansger of Wimund ham gave the earl of Arundel 20s . by the King's writ of over seas after his return from the army of France ; for marrying the king's daughter he gave 1 mark and nothing more after the king crossed to Normandy . Possibly this Robert was Robert Rusteyng , who gave to the monks of Wymondham a marsh in Snettisham and 40 acres of land in Sharnborne of the fee of Nicholas de Sharnborne , for the soul of Aldreda his wife.8 . Roger Rusteng was the seneschal of William earl of Sussex III and attested several of his charters to Buckenham . He gave a mill in Snettisham to the monks of Wymondham , 10 and is mentioned in 1217 with his seneschal Wimar.11 


 7 


 
 
 III . K 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 146] ===
 
 
 130 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 William Rustein was a party to a fine with Hervey de Stanho in 1224-5 and to a fine of land in Wymondham in 1227-8.12 He was impleaded with others in 1232 for a tenement in Waterden , Norf . , 13 and was a collector of the aid in Norfolk in 1235-6.14 In 1244 the service of 1 fee in Congham , Snettisham and Wymondham held by William Rusteng was assigned to the dower of Isabel countess of Arundel , and to the pourparty of Robert de Tateshale.15 In 1246 he was escheator in Norfolk and as such excused from assizes and juries , 16 and so also in 1256.17 He or his heir was one of the keepers in Norfolk in 1264 of the lands late of Hugh Bigod.18 In 1275 William Rusteng claimed the assize of bread and ale in Snettisham and Sharnborne , 19 and also in Congham ; 20 he was party to fines of land in Snettisham , Congham and Wymondham during the period 1278-80.21 In 1285 he was exempted from assizes.22 


 4 


 6 


 This fee descended to Alice , who married John de Thorpe ( Warenne , n . 77 ) , said to be aged 36 in 1306. This John and Alice his wife held fee in Snettisham and Docking in 1302 of Robert de Tateshale , one of the heirs of the late earl of Arundel , and fee in Wymondham of dame Joan de Tateshale ; dame Alice Rusteyn held fee in Congham of Tateshale as above.23 At the death in 1303 of Robert de Tateshale II it was found that John de Thorpe held of him , of the inheritance of the said John's wife Alice , & fee in Snettis ham and Congham , 24 and two years later this fee was assigned in dower to John de Cove and Eva his wife , late wife of Robert de Tateshale.25 In 1309 the service of fee in Wymondham held by Ranulf de Morleye was assigned to the pourparty of Thomas de Cailly.26 John de Thorp died in 1324 , his wife Alice surviving him.27 He possessed large estates in Norfolk and Suffolk , which passed to his son Robert , who died in 1330 , leaving John his son , aged 14.28 


 4 


 20 


 
 
 1. Red Bk . 398 . 


 2. Turner and Coxe , Cal . of Bodleian Chs . 240 . 


 3. Chartulary , Titus C. viii . f . 43. 4. Ibid . f . 32d . 5. Ibid . ff . 49 , 50 . 6. Ibid . f . 49. 7. Red Bk . cclxxiii . 8. Mon. Anglic . iii . 324. 9. Cal . Chart . R. iii . 369. 10. Mon. Anglic . iii . 324b . 11. R. Lit. Claus . i . 315b . 12. Norf . Feet of F. i . 39 , 43. 13. Pat . R. 519 , 524 ; Bracton's Note - Bk . 14. Testa , 413. 15. Close R. 112 , 248. 16. Ibid . 456 ; Cal . Pat . R. 483. 17. Ibid . 471 . 18. Ibid . 321 . 19. R. Hund . i . 464b , 20. Ibid . 5376. 21. Norf . Feet of F. i . pass . 151. 23. Feud . Aids , iii . pass . 24. Cal . Inquis . iv . Close R. 239. 26. Ibid . 100. 27. Cal . Inquis . vi . 295 . 


 n . 377 . 


 5226 . 


 
 
 22. Cal . Pat . R. 105. 25. Cal . 28. Ibid . vii . 214 . 


 
 
 L. 


 The king in 1086 had 1 carucate in Gasthorpe , Norf . 


 In 1166 Gorham de Gatestorp held 1 fee of William de Aubigny the butler of his demesne of Norfolk.¹ During the period 1175-83 Henry de Gatestorp attested a charter of William earl of Sussex to Buckenham.2 William earl of Chichester gave to Thetford priory land in Riddlesworth and Gasthorp which had belonged to Godric.3 


 
 
 In 1244 the service of 1 fee in Gasthorpe held by Geoffrey de Gatestorp was assigned to the pourparty of Robert de Tateshale.4 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 147] ===
 
 
 GASTHORPE - SNETTERTON , W. HARLING IZI 


 
 
 In 1253 John son of Geoffrey de Gatestorp was exempted from assizes.5 John de Gatesthropp held 1 fee in Gasthorpe in 1273 of Robert de Tateshale . " In 1286 and 1289 John de Gatesthorp made acknowledgment of debt in Essex and Middlesex , " and about this time he possibly alienated this fee , for in 1286 John son of William de Berdewell was demandant in a fine of land in Gasthorpe . In 1302 John de Berdewell and his parceners held fee in Gasthorpe of Robert de Tateshale , and in the following year I fee here was held of Robert de Tateshale by John de Berdewell and his parceners and 


 8 


 9 


 11 


 fee by the prior and monks of Thetford.10 The fee held by Berdewell and his parceners was assigned in dower in 1305 to John de Cove and Eva his wife , late wife of Robert de Tateshale.¹ The Thetford holding was assigned in 1309 to the pourparty of Thomas de Cailly , 12 who died in 1316 holding the same.13 In 1346 Robert and Thomas the sons of Thomas de Berdeswell and their parceners held fee here of Adam de Clifton.14 


 
 
 1. Red Bk . 398. 2. Cal . Chart . R. iii . 368 . 125 . 4. Close R. 248. 5. Cal . Pat . R. 176 . 7. Cal . Close R. 467 ; ibid . 1289 , p . 37 . 9. Feud . Aids , iii . 441. 10. Cal . Inquis . iv . 105 . 12. Ibid . 100. 13. Cal . Inquis . vi . 18 , 287 . 


 8 . 


 
 
 3. T. Martin , Thetford , 


 6. Cal . Inquis . ii . 4 . Norf . Feet of F. i . 134 . 11. Cal . Close R. 239 . 14. Feud . Aids , iii . 530 . 


 
 
 LI . 


 The king had in Harling , a berewick of Kenninghall , I carucate in 1086. Possibly part of Snetterton , held of Roger Bigod by Ralph son of Herlewin , as described at n . 41 , was included in this feoffment . Ralph de Bucheam attested the charter of William earl of Chichester to Buckenham priory temp . Stephen.¹ In 1166 Ralph son of Hugh held 2 fees of William de Aubigny the butler of his demesne of Norfolk . It was presented in 1170 that Hugh son of Ralph de Herlinges gave the earl of Arundel of the armies of England and of the army of . . . marks from a fee of 2 knights and , by reason of a certain matter of his right which the earl restored to him , he gave the earl 5 marks gratis . The next link in the descent of this fee is uncertain . Blomefield's account of the descent of lands of this fee in Snetterton and West Harling may be correct , but is not free from suspicion . The following notes suggest a different descent . 


 4 


 
 
 6 


 In 1196 Eustace de Sireford recovered land in Shereford , Norf.5 In 1206-7 William de Shireford was party to a fine of land in Shere ford . It is suggested that members of the respective families of Buckenham alias Snitterton and Shireford married an heiress descended from Hugh son of Ralph de Herling , for in 1244 the service of 2 fees in Snetterton and ( West ) Harling held by Ralph de Bukenham and Nicholas de Shireford was assigned to the dower of Isabel countess of Arundel and to the pourparty of John Fitz - Alan.7 The interest of Nicholas de Shireford passed soon after to a branch of the family of Belfou , for in 1256 Ralph son of William de Bukenham and Hugh de Belfou passed by fine to William prior of Wymondham the advowson of the church of West Newton in 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 148] ===
 
 
 132 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 8 


 9 


 4 


 exchange for other lands . It is possible that the William de Bukenham named above as father of Ralph was of Buckenham Ferry , Illington , Ketteringham and other places . In 1275 Ralph de Bukenham or William de Bukenham held fee in Ellingham of Robert de Mohaut , as of his manor of Castle Rising . In the same year it was presented from Freebridge hundred that 20s . had been extorted from the homage of Ralph de Bukenham and William de la Rokele in West Newton , 10 and from Guildcross hundred that the subescheator extorted 6 marks of the goods of Hugh de Belfou in the manor of West Harling . " In 1289-90 a fine of land in Snetterton was levied between Geoffrey de Kesildele ( Kynosede leye ' ) and Hugh de Bukenham.12 In 1302 Hugh de Sniterton ( sic ) held fee and Nicholas de Belfou ( ‘ Beufeu ' ) fee in West Harling of the heirs of John Fitz - Alan ; Hugh de Bokenham and Nicholas de Belfou held fee in Snetterton of the earl of Arundel.13 In 1315 Hugh de Bukenham had a grant of market and fair at his manor of Snetterton , Norf . , and free warren in ( West ) Harling and West Newton.14 In the ensuing year Hugh de Snyterton ( sic ) and Nicholas de Belfou were returned as lords of West Newton and joint lords of Snetterton and West Harling ; Hugh de Bucken ham as joint lord of Tottington and West Tofts.15 In that year ( 1316 ) Hugh de Snyterton held fee in Snetterton and Shropham of John le Marshal of the barony of Rye , 16 which John son of Peter held in 1242–3,17 and Peter son of Robert de Bukenham in 1302.¹ 18 See n . 46 above . Of this branch was Robert de Bukenham , of whose lands an extent was taken in 1279 ; they lay in Carlton Rode , Tibenham , Old Buckenham , Bunwell , Wilby , Shropham , Griston , Ellingham , Dunston , Eccles and Garboldisham.19 In 1348 Peter de Bokenham held fee in Garboldisham of Lawrence de Hastinges , 14 earl of Pembroke.20 


 
 
 It is noteworthy that in 1302 Hugh de Bukenham and his tenants held & fee in Snetterton of Geoffrey de Kesildele , who held of John L'Estrange and he in chief of the king.21 ( See n . 41 , and the fine of 1289-90 noted above . ) Possibly some connexion between the early holders of this fee and Ralph son of Herlewin of the Domesday Survey is discernible by reason of the tenure last noted . 


 
 
 In 1346 the lady of Snyterton held fee in West Harling of the earl of Arundel which Hugh de Snyterton formerly held ; Thomas de Berdeswell held fee in the same of the said earl which Nicholas de Beaufou formerly held.22 


 
 
 3. Ibid . cclxx . 4. Hist . ( Pipe R. Soc . xvii . ) , 180 . 8. Mon. Anglic . iii . 324 ; 


 1. Cal . Chart . R. iii . 368. 2. Red Bk . 398 . of Norf . i . 199 , 286 ; iv . 167. 5. Feet of F. 6. Norf . Feet of F. i . 25 . 7. Close R. 250 . Norf . Feet of F. i . p . 92. 9. Cal . Inquis . ii . 84-5 . 10. R. Hund . i . 538 . 11. Ibid . 540b . 12. Norf . Fect of F. i . 139 . 13. Feud . Aids , iii . 424 , 44I . 14. Cal . Chart . R. iii . 289. 15. Feud . Aids , iii . pass . 16. Cal . İnquis . vi . 51. 17. Testa , 2886. 18. Feud . Aids , iii . 424. 19. Miscel . Inquis . i . 342 . 20. Cal . Inquis . ix . 119 . 21. Feud . Aids , iii . 424 . 22. Ibid . iii . 530 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 149] ===
 
 
 GRIMSTON , DOCKING 133 


 
 
 LII . 


 The bishop of Bayeux had in Grimston in 1086 3 carucates and in Docking 1 carucate . 


 
 
 Richer de Docching is mentioned in 1158 ; ¹ he held 1 fee in 1166 of Robert son of Hugh ( de Tateshale ) .2 Albert de Doching occurs in 1165.3 Albert Francesius held 2 fees in 1166 of William de Aubigny the butler of his demesne of Norfolk . Godfrey son of Albert tested a charter of William earl of Chichester to the monastery of Buckenham temp . Stephen.5 It was presented in 1170 that Godfrey son of Aubert gave the earl of Arundel 4 marks for the army after the king passed over seas , and afterwards by the king's writ de ultra mare he gave the earl 20s . when he returned from Saxony ( in 1167 ) . 


 6 


 
 
 Roger son of the dean of Grimston is named in 1178 ; 7 Thurstan de Grimeston was party to a fine of land in Grimston in 1199,8 and Geoffrey son of Thurstan and Matilda his wife , and William son of Thurstan and Goda his wife , similarly in 1207-8 with Nicholas de Doching of land in Docking . In 1235 Richard son and heir of Nicholas son of Ralph de Docking obtained the royal confirmation of certain grants to him of land in Docking.10 Nicholas son and heir of the said Richard occurs in 1256.11 


 
 
 9 


 
 
 Richard de Senges obtained a writ in 1205 against Peter de Grimeston , 12 who was party to a fine of land in Burnham in 1222.13 He was coroner of Norfolk prior to 1237 , when he was deceased.14 In 1244 the service of 2 fees in Grimston , Docking and Burnham held by Thomas de Grimeston was assigned to the dower of Isabel countess of Arundel and to the pourparty of John Fitz - Alan.15 This , or a younger , Thomas died before 1288 without issue , for in that year died Agnes late wife of Thomas de Grimeston , who held at her death a messuage in Little Breckles in dower , by reason of her husband's death , of the countess of Arundel for fee ; Alice wife of John de Breckles , daughter of Geoffrey brother of the said Thomas de Grimeston , was her next heir , aged 26.16 


 In 1302 John de Brecles and William de Coston held 1 fee in Grimston of Richard Fitz - Alan ; John de Breccles held a tenement in Burnham Westgate in Brothercross hundred for fee ( of Roger Fitz - Osbert ? ) and fee in Shropham of the earl of Arundel ; 17 Henry de Esthall held fee in Titchwell of John de Breccles and he of the heir of Richard Fitz - Alan.18 Richard son of Nicholas de Dockyng held fee in Docking ; John Lovel and Martin de Suthmere and the tenants of the land late of Richard de Dockyng held fee of the heir of Richard Fitz - Alan.19 Before this time Richard son of Nicholas de Dockyng and Richer son of Richer de Dockyng had held fee in Docking ; but by 1302 it had been alienated by parcels , and John Lovel and others then held the 


 fee of Isabel daughter of William de Derham , who held the same and fee in Dersingham 20 of Robert de Tateshale of the barony of Tateshale . In 1316 John de Brecles was one of the lords of Grimston , Shropham and Breckles.21 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 150] ===
 
 
 134 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 4 


 In 1346 John de Brekles and William Costeyn held 1 fee in Grimston of the earl of Arundel ; John de Brekles held 1 fee in Shropham of the earl of Arundel which John de Brekles formerly held ; Henry de Esthalle held fee in Titchwell of John de Brekles ; John Lovel held fee in Docking of William de Calthorp which John Lovel and Martin de Southmere formerly held.22 


 Possibly a small tenement in Griston belonged to this fee . John de Greston occurs in 1167.23 In 1227-8 a fine of land in Griston was levied between Richard de la Rokele ( de Rupella ' ) and Henry de Grestun whereby the demandant settled 120 acres of land and certain rents on the said Henry.24 In 1244 the service of fee in Griston held by Richard de la Rokele was assigned to the pour party of Roger de Somery and Nicholaa his wife.25 No further mention of this tenure has been found , and it is probable that the service merged in that rendered by the local family to the honor of Clare.26 


 10 


 
 
 1. Pipe R. 4 Hen . II , p . 130. 2. Red Bk . 389. 3. Pipe R. 11 Hen . II , P. 7. 4. Red Bk . 398. 5. Cal . Chart . R. iii . 368. 6. Red Bk . cclxx . 7. Pipe R. 24 Hen . II , p . 24. 8. Norf . Feet of F. p . 9. 9. Ibid . p . 26 . 10. Cal . Chart . R. i . 214. 11. Norf . Feet of F. p . 91 . 12. R. de Fin . 332. 13. Norf . Feet of F. p . 38. 14. Close R. 420 . 15. Ibid . 112 , 250 . 16. Cal . Inquis . ii . 409. 17. Feud . Aids , iii . pass . 18. Ibid . 410 , 438 . 19. Ibid . 410 , 438. 20. Ibid . 438. 21. Ibid . pass . iii . 522 , 525 , 550 . 23. Pipe R. 13 Hen . II , p . 32 . i . 46 . 25. Close R. 252 . 26. Feud . Aids , iii . 393 . 


 22. Feud . Aids , 24. Norf . Feet of F. 


 
 
 LIII . 


 
 
 if 


 
 
 The king's land in Besthorpe appears to have been involved in some other manor in the Survey . 


 Henry I gave to William de Aubigny his butler inter alia the service of Picot de Bavent of one knight.¹ Robert de Bavent gave to the monks of Wymondham his portion of the church of Besthorpe , with the assent of Picot his first - born and other sons ; 2 and Robert his son gave parcels of land there , all which William , 3rd earl of Arundel , confirmed.3 It was presented in 1170 that Robert Bahevent gave the earl of Arundel 6 marks in money and horses when he kept ward of the marches of Wales ; that Robert de Badvent gave a mark by weight to Richard the earl's clerk at the giving of the king's daughter ; after the earl returned from Saxony Robert de Badvent gave him 20s . by the king's writ de ultra mare , as his peers did.5 


 4 


 
 
 Eustace de Bautvent confirmed to Wymondham priory a gift which he had made , in conjunction with his father Robert de Batvent , of land in Besthorp , at the time when his father became a brother in the priory . His charter was attested by his brothers John and Richard and John de Batvent . Richard de Batvent confirmed land in Wymondham to Sir Robert de Guiz son of Sir Robert de Guiz . " He seems to be the Richard de Curchun who gave land to Wymondham when his father Robert de Batvent became a brother there ; he also gave land in Stanfield with the assent of William his son 9 and heir . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 151] ===
 
 
 BESTHORPE - SEETHING 135 


 
 
 Hubert de Bavent and Michael de Bavent gave parcels of land in Easton Bavents , Suff . , to Bliborough priory.10 In 1216 Michael de Bavent gave his charter of fidelity to the constable of Framling ham and delivered the son of his sister Eustachia as a hostage , and in the ensuing year he returned to allegiance of king Henry and recovered possession of his lands in Norfolk and Suffolk.12 In 1230 he was appointed to try a Suffolk plea 13 and in 1238 was one of the keepers of Yarmouth fair.14 15 and 


 Thomas de Bavent was a visor in a Norfolk plea in 1241 , three years later the service of 1 fee which he held in Besthorpe , Norf . , was assigned to the pourparty of John Fitz - Alan.16 Hubert de Bavent and Felicia his wife of Norfolk were mentioned in 1250.17 He had letters of protection in 1245 upon going with Roger le Bigod , earl of Norfolk , to the court of Rome.18 Robert de Bavent released to the monks of Wymondham the portion of the advowson of the church of Besthorpe which belonged to him.19 Roger de Bavent in 1253 and Hubert de Bavent in 1257 were exempted from assizes.20 Hugh de Bavent , son and heir of Sir Robert de Bavent , confirmed the gifts of his ancestors to the monks of Wymondham during the period 1262-66.21 In 1275 Hugh de Batevent had waif and toll of those who sold salt and pots in the vill of Besthorpe in Shropham hundred.22 


 
 
 11 


 
 
 In that year Richard son of Osbert held fee in Besthorpe of Robert de Mohaut as of his castle of Rising.23 


 
 
 In 1335 the service of Richard son of Osbert ( sic ) in Besthorpe was conveyed to Queen Isabella by Robert de Morlee , kinsman and heir of Robert de Mohaut.24 


 
 
 3. Mon. Anglic . 


 1. Red Bk . 398. 2. Chartulary , Titus C. viii . f . 29 . iii . 3326 . 4. Red Bk . cclxx . 5. Ibid . cclxxi . ff . 6. Titus C. viii . f . 29 . 7. Ibid . 8. Ibid . f . 28. 9. Ibid . f . 27d . 10. Mon. Anglic . vi . 588b ; Cal . Chart . R. iii . 484. 11. R. Lit. Claus . i . 254b . 12. Ibid . 332 , 374 . 13. Pat . R. 354 . 14. Cal . Pat . 234 , 272 . 15. Abbrev . Placit . 108 . 16. Close R. 250. 17. Excerpt . e R. Fin . ii . 94 . 18. Cal . Pat . R. 454 . 19. Regist . of Wymondham , f . 94. 20. Cal . Pat . R. 1253 , P. 171 ; 1257 , P. 577. 21. Regist . of Wymondham , f . 95 . 22. R. Hund . i . 473 , 538b . 23. Cal . Inquis . ii . 84. 24. Cal . Pat . R. 130 . 


 
 
 LIV . 


 Part of the land of Roger Bigod in Seething appears to have passed to this fee . 


 It was presented in 1170 that Robert de Seinges gave the earl of Arundel 20s . of aid.¹ In 1179 Ranulf de Seingis gave 5 marks for a recognition , which he obtained in 1184-5.2 In 1194 Peter de Edisfeld essoigned himself against Ranulf de Seinges in a plea of mort d'ancestor by Roger de Mundham.3 Richard de Seinges was a justice in the time of Hubert archbishop of Canterbury.4 As Richard son of Robert de Seinges he gave to St. James ' , Bucken ham , the advowson of the church of St. Mary of Barwick and lands in Rushall ( Riveshale ' ) and Lincroft.5 In 1199 earl Roger Bigod attorned Richard de Senges and another in a plea against the earl of Leicester to receive 10 knights and his cyrograph . In 1204 


 6 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 152] ===
 
 
 136 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 9 


 Hugh de Windesores was in the custody of Richard de Seinges , " who accounted for the farm of Herefordshire in 1201 for Hubert de Burgh . In 1223-4 a fine was levied between Richard de Seinges and Ranulf de Scheldon respecting the advowson of the church of St. Ethelbert of Mundham ( n . 44 ) , and in 1233-4 between Edmund de Brunton and the same Richard respecting land in Seething.¹ 10 Sir Richard de Senges and William his son attested a Seething charter . " Sir William de Senges , son of Richard , is named in several Seething charters preserved in the Public Record Office.12 In one of these deeds Roger Bigod , earl of Norfolk , granted to Richard de Seinges land in Seething ( Seinges ' ) for fee.13 In 1225 Richard was a special justice . Margery late wife of Sir Richard de Seinges granted to Sir William , son of the said Sir Richard , her dower right in the wood of Seething and in the maritagium late of Matilda , mother of the said Sir William , in Wootton , Norf.14 Possibly this Margery was daughter of Alan de Mundham.15 


 
 
 In 1244 the service of 1 fee in Seething held by William de Seynges was assigned to the pourparty of John Fitz - Alan and the service of fee in Barwick held by the same was assigned to the pourparty of Robert de Tateshale.16 In 1251-2 a fine was levied between Simon prior of Norwich and William son of Richard de Senges of land in Seething and the advowson of a mediety of the church there.17 Roger Bigot , earl of Norfolk , confirmed the advowson of Seething church to St. Giles's hospital , Norwich ; one moiety had been acquired from the abbey of Langley , to which Walter de Seinges had given it , and the other moiety from the priory of Norwich , to which William son of Richard de Seinges had given it.18 Sir William son of Richard de Seinges also gave the hospital land in Seething.19 Walter son of Hugh de Wynde lesores gave to the abbey of Sibeton a messuage in Mundham and all the tenements which Margery , late the wife of Richard de Senges , father of Sir William de Senges , held in Seething , Mundham , Thwaite , Sisland , Kirstead , Brooke , Langley ( Langhale ' ) and Wootton , and a windmill in Thwaite.20 


 
 
 1 


 4 


 
 
 It was presented in 1275 that Philip Burnel took the amerce ments of his brewers at Seething ; Walter de Senge owed suit to the hundred for land late of Philip Burnel , but withdrew it for 10 years past ; the homage of Philip Burnel in the vill of Seething is mentioned ; 21 Bartholomew de Calthorp had incroached on the highway in Stanhoe.22 William Gerberd the younger , of Buscot , Berks . , died in 1283 ; the inquest after his death mentions rents held of his father William Gerberd and of Isabel late the wife of Philip Burnel.23 In 1302 Sir William de Calthorp and Sir William Gerberge , knts . , held 1 fee in Seething of the earl of Arundel belonging to his manor of Milham ; Reginald de Cal thorp and Richard his brother held fee in Barwick of Walter de Calthorp and he of Robert de Tateshale , one of the heirs of Hugh , late earl of Arundel.24 In 1303 Reginald de Calthorp held of Robert de Tateshale fee in Barwick.25 Walter de Calthorp held 1 fee in Stanhoe of the heirs of Roger de Somery and Nicholaa his 


 4 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 153] ===
 
 
 SEETHING - SHOTESHAM 137 


 
 
 wife , one of the heirs of Arundel.26 In 1316 the same Walter was one of the lords of Stanhoe.27 This quarter fee in Barwick was in 1305 assigned in dower to John de Cove and Eva his wife , late wife of Robert de Tateshale.2 28 


 
 
 In 1303 Joan , daughter of Thomas Gerberge , knt . , released to Sir Walter de Calthorp , William his son and the said son's heirs her right in £ 10 rent from tenements late of William Gerberge her grandfather in Seething , Mundham , Thwaite and other adjacent vills , which Sir Walter then held in fee farm from his father.2 In 1346 William de Calthorp and the heirs of William de Holbrok held 1 fee in Seething of the earl of Arundel belonging to the manor of Mileham which Walter de Calthorp and William Gerbergh formerly held ; the same William held fee in Stanhoe of the heir of Roger de Somery.30 


 I 


 
 
 29 


 
 
 i . 130 . 


 13 . 


 1. Red Bk . cclxxi . 2. Pipe R. 25 Hen . II , p . 8. 3. R. Cur . Regis , 4. Abbrev . Placit . 44. 5. Cal . Chart . R. iii . 369. 6. R. Cur . Regis , ii . 184. 7. R. de Fin . 237 . 8. R. Cancel . 106 , 360. 9. Norf . Feet of F. i . p . 39. 10. Ibid . p . 54 . 11. Cal . of Anct . D. ii . A. 2946 . 12. Ibid . C. 1274 , 1910 , 2258 . Ibid . C. 1169 . 14. Ibid . C. 2332 . 16. Close R. 250 , 248 . 17. Norf . Topham Ch . ( B.M. ) , 41 , 44 . 19. Ibid . 34 . 21. R. Hund . i . 469b , 541b . 22. Ibid . 523 . 24. Feud . Aids , iii . pass . 25. Cal . Inquis . 27. Ibid . 452. 28. Cal . Close R. 


 15. Cf. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 1618 . 


 18 . 


 30. Feud . Aids , iii . 500 , 525 . 


 
 
 Feet of F. i . p . 82 . 20. Cal . Chart . R. iii . 458 . 23. Cal . Inquis . ii . 271 . 


 iv . 105 . 


 26. Feud . Aids , iii . 410 , 439 . 239. 29. Cal . of Anct . D. iii . C. 3105 . 


 
 
 LV . 


 Godric the sewer in 1086 had 40 acres of land in Surlingham , the king had 1 carucate in Howe and I carucate in Shotesham , and 32 acres there which Aitardus the man of Roger Bigot held . 


 William de Ho accounted twice for 1 mark in Norfolk in 1161 apparently to the donum , ¹ and in 1166 he held 2 fees in Howe and elsewhere of the abbot of St. Edmund's.2 In 1185 Roger de Ho held fee in Bowthorpe , Norf . , of Cecily de Buutorp . For other references to this family see St. Edmunds , n . 18. In 1207 Roger de Ho recovered possession of land of which he had been disseised for forfeiture done to certain crown officials.4 In 1214-15 Roger de Ho claimed the right of presentation to the church of Mickfield , Suff . , against Bartholomew son of Roger , as that to which William de Ho , father of the said Roger , last presented.5 Roger had sons Gilbert and Ranulf ; to Gilbert he gave his land of the fee of St. Edmund , and to Ranulf his land of the fee of Arundel . 6 


 
 
 In 1244 the service of 1 fee in Shotesham held by Ranulf de Ho was assigned to the dower of Isabel countess of Arundel and to the pourparty of John Fitz - Alan . ' In 1249-50 the same Ranulf was demandant in a fine against William de Vaux , whom Simon prior of Pentney called to warranty , respecting the advowson of a mediety of the church of All Saints of Shotesham.8 Miles son of Ralph de Ho in 1259–60 had an estate in Howe , including a moiety of the church . In 1268 Miles de Ho obtained a grant of free 


 9 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 154] ===
 
 
 138 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 warren in Howe , Shotesham , Holverstone , Rockland , Surlingham , Sisland , Mundham and Loddon , Norf.10 


 
 
 In 1265-6 Magdalen prioress of Carrow and John de Ho levied a fine respecting the advowson of a mediety of the church of Howe , 11 and in 1275 it was presented that Miles de Ho and John de Ho , lords of Howe , had free leets in Howe.12 Sir Miles de Howe was living in 1282.13 


 
 
 4 


 4 


 4 


 In 1302 Ralph de Howe held fee in Shotesham , fee in Surling ham and fee in Howe , of the fee of Arundel , 14 besides a share of the tenements in Lodden and elsewhere known as the fee of Joscelin de Lodden.15 The manor of Howe was settled in 1306 on Ralph son of Miles de Howe and Joan his wife and Lettice her sister . In 1316 Miles de Ho held 1 fee in Shotesham of Isabel de Aubigny , countess of Arundel.17 


 16 


 
 
 About Christmas 1326 Miles de Houwe , son and heir of Ralph de Houwe , granted to feoffees a moiety of the manor of Howe , late his father's , with the advowson of a mediety of the church and the reversion of the other mediety which Nicholas Houel and Joan his wife , the donor's mother , held for Joan's life.18 


 
 
 4 I 


 In 1346 John de Norwich , knt . , and his tenants held fee in Howe of the fee of Arundel , late of Ralph de Howe ; also fee in Surlingham and fee in Yelverton , of Roger Sturmyn and Edmund Sire , tenants of Sarra Picot , of this honor , late of Ranulf de Hou.19 


 
 
 48 . 


 1. Pipe R. 7 Hen . II , pp . 3 , 4. 2. Red Bk . 3. R. de Dominabus , 4. R. Lit. Claus . i . 87b . 5. Abbrev . Placit . 88b . 6. Blomefield , Norfolk , iv . 246 . 7. Close R. 112 , 250 . 8. Norf . Feet of F. i . p . 74 . 9. Blomefield , viii . 25 . 11. Norf . Feet of F. i . p . 99 . 12. R. Hund . i . 471b . 14. Feud . Aids , iii . pass . 


 10. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 93 . 13. Cal . Close R. 195 . 


 15. Ibid . 433. 16. Blomefield , viii . 25. 17. Cal . Inquis . vi . 41 . Close R. 1328 , p . 382. 19. Feud . Aids , iii . 498-9 , 502 . 


 18. Cal . 


 
 
 LVI . 


 Part of the land in Snettisham of the bishop of Bayeux passed to this fee . 


 
 
 II 


 6 


 Richard son of Hacon of Humbleyard hundred , Norf . , occurs in 1158,1 and was one of the witnesses of the charter of William earl of Chichester to the priory of Buckenham temp . Stephen.2 Richard Hacun gave 13 acres in Snettisham to Wymondham priory.³ Richard , Geoffrey and Alan , all of Snettisham , were named in 1161.4 W. Hacon attested a charter of Ralph son of Brien II to the canons of Bricett , Suff . , during the period 1146-70.5 Ralph Hakun was a benefactor to the priory of Walsingham . Blomefield's continuator states that in 1240 John prior of Wymondham granted to Sir William Hacon a chapel in his house in Snettisham , ' and that William was the father of Hubert Hacon ; but in 1230-1 Hubert Hacon was demandant in a fine of land in Melton against Robert son of Thomas Hacun , whom Robert Hacun and others called to warranty , and in 1241 Hubert Hakun was a visor in a Norfolk plea.9 In 1244 the service of fee in Snettisham held by Hubert Hakun was assigned to the dower of Isabel countess of Arundel and to the pourparty of John Fitz - Alan.10 


 8 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 155] ===
 
 
 SNETTISHAM - HALE HOLME 139 


 
 
 It 


 In 1249-50 Robert Hakun and Hubert Hakun levied a fine of land in Great Melton , Norf . , 11 and in 1252 land in Hethersett was held of Hubert Hakun , 12 and similarly in 1270.13 Hubert Hacon put in a claim in a fine of land in Great Melton in 1256–7.14 was presented in 1275 that Hubert Hakun , John de Ingoldestorp , William Rusting and Andrew de Sharnborne had amends of the assize of bread and ale of their men in Snettisham ; there was reference also to the homage of Hubert Hakun in Melton in Humbleyard hundred.15 In 1286 William de Muntchenesy was summoned to show by what warrant he claimed view of frankpledge and amends of the assize of bread and ale broken of the tenants of Richard Hakun in Great Melburn.16 


 
 
 18 


 In 1302 Richard Hakun held fee in Snettisham of the heir of Richard Fitz - Alan , one of the heirs of Hugh late earl of Arundel.¹7 He was also a tenant in Great Melton of the heirs of William de Muntchenesy . See n . 39. Hubert Hakun was a tenant with Cecily his wife in Shouldham and elsewhere of the earl of Gloucester.1 In 1346 Richard Hacoun and Ann his wife had licence to alienate in mortmain to the convent of Bricett a fourth part of the manor of Great Bricett , Suff .; they had besides £ 30 land in Melton , Norf . 19 Ann wife of Richard Hacoun , aged 28 in 1318 , was one of the four sisters and coheirs of Richard Loveday of Bricett.20 


 In 1346 the prior of Wymondham held fee in Snettisham of the earl of Arundel , late of Richard Hakon ; the same Richard held fee in Great Melton of the earl of Pembroke , who held of the heirs of Tateshale.2 21 


 
 
 1. Pipe R. 4 Hen . II , p . 128. 2. Cal . Chart . R. iii . 368 . Titus C. viii . f . 44. 4. Pipe R. 7 Hen . II , p . 5 . 1746. 6. Ibid . vi . 71. 7. Hist . of Norf . x . 374 . 


 
 
 3. Chartulary , 5. Mon. Anglic . vi . 8. Norf . Feet of 10. Close R. 250. 11. Norf . Feet 13. Ibid . 239 . 14. Norf . Feet 16. Placit . de quo war . 4976 . 19. Mon. Anglic . vi . 1756 . 21. Feud . Aids , iii . 525 , 532 . 


 
 
 F. i . 49 . 


 9. Abbrev . Placit . IIIb . 


 of F. i . 75. 12. Cal . Inquis . i . 66 . of F. i . 91 . 15. R. Hund . i . 5226 , 531b . 17. Feud . Aids , iii . 410 , 438. 18. Ibid . 399 . 20. Cal . Inquis . vi . 85 . ibid . iii . 382 . 


 Cf. 


 
 
 LVII . 


 The king in 1086 had carucate in Hale Holme and 72 acres of land in Pickenham ; part of the bishop of Bayeux's manor of Snettisham passed to this fee . 


 1 


 2 


 Roger de Verli gave land in Pickenham to the priory of Wymondham , and Hugh his son confirmed it . In 1166 Hugh de Verlei held 2 fees of William de Aubigny the butler of his demesne of Norfolk . In 1170 it was presented that after the king passed over seas Cecily de Hulma gave to the earl of Arundel 2 marks of the armies of Wales , and when he returned 10s . of the last army of France by the king's writ de ultra mare , and 10s . to discharge the earl's debt to the Jews.3 In the same year Roger de Verli gave 5 marks in Norfolk for having the service of his men ; Roger de Verli of Buckinghamshire was named in 1176.5 


 4 


 In 1194 Ralph de Verli was plaintiff against Alice del Hulm and Amisia her sister in a plea of land in Norfolk , and two years 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 156] ===
 
 
 140 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 later Alice and Amot were plaintiffs against Ralph de Verli in a plea of land in Holme and Snettisham . " In that year ( 1196 ) Amicia released to Ralph de Verli all her right in the land late of Cecily del Humme , late mother of the said Ralph de Verli , in Holme ( Humme ' ) and Snettisham , 8 and in the following year Alice daughter of Maximus released to Ralph de Verli , the tenant , her right in fee in Holme ( ' Hulmo ' ) and Snettisham , for which he gave her 14 acres land and 3s . rent in Snettisham . Ralph de Verli confirmed his predecessors ' gifts to Wymondham.10 Cecily de Verli also confirmed.11 In 1194 Alice de Verli , late the wife of Alexander de Verli , made an agreement with Thomas de Bassingburn re specting her dower.12 In 1204 the chattels of Ralph de Verli , who was indebted to the Jews , were ordered to be restored to him.13 Roger de Verli and Alice his wife were parties to a fine of land in Henstead in 1219.14 Roger de Verli gave land in Pickenham to Wymondham abbey.15 


 
 
 In 1232 the land of Hugh de Verli was ordered to be extended , and terms were to be set for payment of his debts to the Jews of Norwich , 16 and two years later a similar order was made in respect of Roger de Verly and Hugh his son in regard to their lands in Norfolk and Buckinghamshire.17 In 1235 Hugh de Verli was directed to pay £ 4 a year , instead of £ 10 , towards the extinction of the debts of Roger his father.¹ 18 In 1242 the sheriff of Norfolk was directed not to permit Hugh de Verly to be distrained by Hugh earl of Arundel in respect of I fee in Buckinghamshire for which . the sheriff had already distrained him.19 This knight's fee was in Woughton on the Green , Bucks . , and was held by Hugh of the earl of Arundel as of the honor of Chester.20 


 
 
 In 1243 the service of 2 fees which Hugh de Verly held and of half a fee which Adam de Verly held was assigned to the dower of Isabel countess of Arundel , 21 and the year following this half fee in Holme was assigned to the pourparty of John Fitz - Alan together with 1 fee held by the said Hugh in Woughton , Bucks.22 As there was no mention of the 2 fees held by Hugh de Verly in the particulars of the partition of the Arundel fees it is safe to assume that they were awarded to the pourparty of Roger de Mohaut . 


 
 
 Hugh de Verli was a mainpernor in 1246,23 and Sir Adam de Verly attested a charter of land in Marham and Shouldham , Norf . , in 1267.24 Robert de Virly replevied his land in Tittleshall , Norf . , in 1275,25 in which year it was presented that Ralph de Verly claimed the assize of bread and ale in Tittleshall and Hugh de Verly made a several pasture in North Pickenham.26 


 Robert de Virly held at his death in 1279 the manor of Euston , Suff . , of Sir William Bardolf ; Philip his son was then aged 2 years.27 In 1280 Hugh de Verly held fee in North Pickenham of Isabel countess of Arundel , who held it in dower after the death of Hugh de Aubigny , earl of Arundel.28 In 1284-6 the heirs of Hugh de Verly held a moiety of the vill of Woughton , Bucks . , of the heir of the earl of Arundel.29 


 In 1302 Petronilla le Gros and the tenants late of the land of 


 
 
 1 


 4 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 157] ===
 
 
 HALE HOLME - S . WOOTTON , W. NEWTON 141 


 
 
 Cecily de Verly ( Wirly ) held fee , namely fee in Hale Holme and fee in Snettisham ; 30 John de Burehill held fee in North Picken 11 ham of Robert de Mohaut , ³¹ and Philip de Verluy held of the fee of Warenne in Tittleshall and Burnham . ( See Warenne , nos . 2 , 25. ) In 1303 Philip de Verly and Juliana his wife were party to a fine of the manor and advowson of the church of Tittleshall.32 In 1330 Philip de Virly held 2 fees of Thomas Bardolf of Stoke Bardolf and Wormegay in the manor of Euston and in Tunstall , Field Dalling , East Harling , Burnham Thorpe , Old Lynn , Tittleshall and Bradenham.33 


 
 
 In 1335 the service of Adam de Verley in Pickenham was con veyed to Queen Isabella by Robert de Morlee , kinsman and heir of Robert de Mohaut.34 In 1346 the heirs of Richard de Germes ton and Alice his wife and other tenants of the land late of Cecily de Verly ( in Snettisham ) held fee there of the heirs of Verly.³ 


 35 


 
 
 1. Chartulary , Titus C. viii . f . 53. 2. Red Bk . 398 . 4. Pipe R. 16 Hen . II , p . 31 . 5. Ibid . 22 Hen . II , p . 22 . Regis , i . 112 , 115 . 7. Ibid . ( Pipe R. Soc . xxiv . ) 234 . ( Pipe R. Soc . xx . ) , 14. 9. Ibid . 132. 10. Titus C. viii . f . 48 . 


 13. R. de Fin . 422. 14 . 16. Close R. 63 . Close R. 478 . 


 f . 47d . 12. Ibid . xiv . 14 , 48 . of F. i . 36. 15. Mon. Anglic . iii . 324 , 331 . 508 . 18. Excerpt . e R. Fin . i . 285. 19 . 244b . 21. Close R. 112 . 22. Ibid . 250 . Pat . R. 132 . 25. Cal . Close R. 238 . 27. Cal . Inquis . ii . iii . 410 , 438 , 448 . Inquis . vii . 179 . 


 23. Ibid . 442 . 26. R. Hund . i . 169. 28. Ibid . 209. 29. Feud . Aids , i . 8o . 31. Ibid . 446. 32. Norf . Feet of F. i . 160 . 34. Cal . Pat . R. 130 . 35. Feud . Aids , iii . 525 . 


 
 
 3. Ibid . cclxx . 


 6. R. Cur . 8. Feet of F. 11. Ibid . Norf . Feet 17. Ibid . 20. Testa , 24. Cal . 4346 , 517b . 30. Ibid . 33. Cal . 


 
 
 LVIII . 


 The king in 1086 had West Newton in Freebridge hundred , which Godric kept , and 2 carucates in South Wootton , which Godric kept . 


 
 
 In 1139-1140 William de Cuini attested a charter of William de Aubigny , earl of Lincoln.¹ In 1166 Ranulf de Cuiniis ? ( ' Cuneus ' ) held 3 fees of William de Aubigny the butler of his demesne of Norfolk.2 It was presented in 1170 that after the king last passed over seas and made his assize the men of Robert de Mil [ iers ? ] 3 of Wootton and Newton gave the earl of Arundel to the first army of Wales 60s . , to the second army of Wales £ 6 , to the third 60s . , and when the earl of Arundel returned from Saxony they gave him 60s . in aid ; these moneys Richard ( the chamberlain ) and Toco the chaplain received by precept of William the sewer.¹ Neither Ranulf de Cumeaus ( ? ) nor Robert de Miliers ( ? ) has been identified ; nor is it certain that the 3 fees of the earlier entry refer to this feudal tenement . One Hamon de Cumeaus was a benefactor to the abbey of St. Jean de Falaise.5 Roger de Milliers and his wife Hodierna gave to Wymondham the church of North Wootton for the souls of their lord William the butler , William his son , earl of Arundel , and Randulf de Cuinnis , and for William earl of Sussex.6 The gift does not seem to have been confirmed to the priory . The widow of Roger de Miliers , as Hodierna de Cuinnis , gave the monks 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 158] ===
 
 
 142 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 one of her men and confirmed a gift by another man , Richard Noth . " Benedict de Angervill and Emma his wife gave the church of Newton to the same house for the soul of Roger de Milliers.8 


 In the following account some particulars are included which relate to the fee of Gurnai ( after Bardolf ) in South Wootton , Bedingham and Kimberley , held by the Stutevills . There is , how ever , no evidence that the Bulmers were feoffees of the Stutevills rather they appear to have been enfeoffed by one of the family of Miliers . 


 
 
 In Michaelmas term 1194 Benedict de Bedigham came and avowed ( advocavit ) Nicholas de Stutevill of the church of St. Mary of Bedingham , Norf . , the advowson of which Theobald Walter claimed . Nicholas was summoned to Westminster to answer.9 In 1197 a partition was made of the land late of Ralph de Aubigny in Yorkshire and Lincolnshire , namely of 15 knights ' fees , part of which was assigned to Nicholas de Stutevill and Gunnora his wife.10 See the pedigree in Early Yorks . Charters , i , 461. In 1205 the manors of Kimberley ( Kineburn ' ) and Beddingham late of William de Stutevill were committed to William de Cantilupo , 11 and shortly after they were committed to Walter de Cantilupo , father of the said William.12 On 3 January , 1207 , these lands were restored to Nicholas de Stutevill , grandson 13 of Hugh de Gurnai , whereof Nicholas de Stutevill his father had been disseised by reason of the disseisin of the Normans.14 The younger Nicholas gave 10,000 marks in 1205 for the inheritance of William de Stutevill his brother.15 In 1218 Nicholas II obtained seisin of the manor of Brinklow , which Eustace de Stutevill had held by the bail of Nicholas de Stutevill , father of the said Nicholas.16 In 1219 the land of Liddel which Nicholas de Stutevill had assigned to Eustace son of Robert de Stutevill his brother until his full age , which custody William de Valoignes had held and at his decease devised to Saher earl of Winchester , was committed to the said earl.17 


 
 
 In 1234-5 a fine of land in Kimberley was levied between Roger Buteaute and Nicholas de Stutevill , to which Hugh de Gurnay put in his claim.18 In 1239-40 the same Nicholas was demandant în a fine of the advowson of Bedingham church , 19 and in 1241 he put in a claim on the ground that one of the parties of a fine of land in Kimberley was his villein.20 


 
 
 In 1244 the service of 3 fees which John de Bulemer held was assigned to the dower of Isabel countess of Arundel 21 and , although not recorded , was doubtless assigned to the pourparty of Roger de Mohaut . 


 
 
 In 1265 John de Bulemer was attached to answer Alice de Bales ham for taking her goods in the vill of Wootton ; he replied that he went to the manor of John de Gurney in South Wootton and because the said John was in the conflict of Evesham against the king he seised that manor into his own hands as against the king's enemy.22 In the ensuing year John de Stutevill had safe conduct in going to the king's court , directed to the sheriffs of Yorkshire , Lincolnshire , Rutland and Northamptonshire . 23 He was either executed for rebellion or died before 3 October , when his relict 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 159] ===
 
 
 S. WOOTTON , W. NEWTON 143 


 
 
 Dionisia had provision out of John de Stutevill's lands in Bedingham and Wootton by the king's clemency , 24 as stated at n . 44. Extents of the lands of John de Stutevill , the king's adversary , were made . about this time , showing that he held the manor and advowson of Kimberley , the manor of Hingham , and lands in Bedingham and Wootton.25 Sir William Bardolf received the Michaelmas rent from Kimberley ( as superior lord ) .26 


 
 
 In 1275 John de Bulemer had the assize of bread and ale in South Wootton 27 which he held of Robert de Mohaut as of the honor of Rising ; John de Stutevill had leet in Kimberley ; 28 certain amercements made at Carlton Forehoe and Kimberley belonged to Nicholas de Stutevill.29 In 1285 it was found by inquest that John Noth of Kimberley was of unsound mind and he was placed in the custody of Nicholas de Stutevill.30 In 1286 the same Nicholas was in the king's service over seas . In 1282 Sir Nicholas de Stutevill , knt . , attested charters of John son of John de Lodne to the earl of Norfolk.32 


 31 


 
 
 In 1292 William Crungethorp impleaded Nicholas de Stutevill and others for disseising him of common pasture in Kimberley.33 In 1299 a commission was directed to inquire about those who committed trespasses against Nicholas de Stutevill , while he was in the king's service in Wales , at Kimberley , Bradenham and else where.34 


 
 
 Sir John de Bulmer , knt . , died in 1299,35 leaving by his wife Theophania ( d . 1315 ) , daughter and co - heiress of Hugh de Morewik , a son Ralph , who had livery of his mother's inheritance in 1315.36 Sir John had apparently an elder son Richard , who was in the custody of Sir Robert de Mohaut in 1302 , when he and dame Theo phania de Bulemer held 1 fee in South Wootton of the said Sir Robert.37 In 1303 Hugh de Bokenham held 1 fee in West Newton of the heir of Richard de Bulmere.38 The heir appears to have been Geoffrey de Warenne , who was joint lord of South Wootton in 1316,39 and held with Alice his wife one fee there in 1346 of Queen Isabel , as of the heirs of Robert de Mohaut ; Hugh de Bukenham held fee in West Newton of the same Geoffrey.40 


 In 1335 the service of John de Bulmer in Wootton was conveyed to Queen Isabel by Robert de Morlee , kinsman and heir of Robert de Mohaut.41 Blomefield's continuator cites deeds to show that John and Alice de Bulemer were parents of John de Bulemer , who married Theophania de Morewich and by her had Richard his eldest son , who married Clementia , daughter of Sir Gervase de Clifton . Richard and Clementia had an only daughter Alice , who married Geoffrey son of John de Warenne.42 


 
 
 • 


 1. Facsimiles of Charters ( Brit . Mus . ) , n . 14 . 2. Red Bk . 298. 3. See n . 69. The heirs of William de Miliers held land in Wutton ' of Robert de Mohaut in 1275 ; Cal . Inquis . ii . 84. 4. Red Bk . cclxxi . 5. Round , Calendar , 215 ; R. Chart . 5. 6. Chartulary , Titus C. viii . f . 54. 7. Ibid . f . 54d . 8. Ibid . f . 98. 9. R. Cur . Regis , i . I. 10. Feet of F. ( Pipe R. Soc . xx . ) , 99. 11. R. Lit. Claus . i . 33. 12. Ibid . 28b . 13. Blomefield , Norfolk , i . 749 . 14. R. Lit. Claus . 75b . Cf. R. Chart . 160b . 15. R. de Fin . 305 . 16. R. Lit. Claus . i . 357 . 17. Ibid . 3936. 18. Norf . Feet of F. i . 57 . 19. Ibid . 62. 20. Ibid . 68 . 22. Abbrev . Placit . 158 . 


 21. Close R. 112 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 160] ===
 
 
 144 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 24. Ibid . 644. 25. Cal . Inquis . i . 306. 26. Miscel . 27. R. Hund . i . 537b , 461 . 28. Ibid . 4456 , 527 . 30. Cal . Pat . R. 149. Cf. Cal . Inquis . ii . 329 , and n . 64 32. Ibid . 190 , 195 . 33. Abbrev . Placit . 229 . 36. Cal . Fine R. ii . 


 
 
 23. Cal . Pat . R. 597 . Inquis . i . 248 . 29. Ibid . 4476 . below . 31. Ibid . 233 . 34. Cal . Pat . R. 473 . pass . 37. Feud . Aids , iii . 407 . 40. Ibid . 522. 41. Cal . Pat . R. 130 . iv . 778 . 


 
 
 35. Cal . Inquis . iii . 442 . 


 
 
 1. Close R. 112 , 251 . 4. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 184 . 7. Cal . Inquis . vi . 41 . 


 
 
 38. Ibid . vi . 554. 39. Ibid . iii . 449 . 42. Hist . of Norfolk ( ed . 1775 ) , 


 
 
 LIX . 


 Four of the king's freemen held in 1086 20 acres of land in Eccles , Norf . Part of this tenement may have been included in 2 carucates in Hempstead which Godric kept for the king . 


 In 1243 the service of 1 fee held by William del Gerner ( ' de Granario ' ) in Eccles was assigned to the dower of Isabel countess of Arundel and to the pourparty of Roger de Sumery and Nicholaa his wife.¹ In 1256-7 Stephen del Gerner and William del Gerner and Alice his wife levied a fine of land in Brumstead , 2 and in 1269-70 William del Gerner and William le Parker levied a fine of the advowson of the church of Eccles.3 In 1272 William le Parker of Brumstead had a grant of free warren in Eccles and other places in Norfolk , and in 1275 he and William del Gerner had wreck of the sea in the hundred of Happing.5 In 1302 William del Gerner and William le Parker held each fee in Eccles of Robert de Tateshale , and in 1316 they held the same of Isabel de Aubigny , countess of Arundel . In 1346 Alexander del Gerner ( de Granario ) and John le Parker held each fee in Eccles of the heir of Robert de Tateshale.8 


 4 


 7 


 
 
 3. Ibid . 109 . 6. Feud . Aids , iii . 434 . 


 
 
 2. Norf . Feet of F. i . 90 . 5. R. Hund . i . 508b . 8. Feud . Aids , iii . 504 . 


 
 
 LX . 


 This tenement possibly represented Roger Bigod's land in Wilby , Norfolk . 


 In 1220 Anselm son of Heloise and Margery his wife demanded against Reginald son of Thomas and Beatrice his wife , and Agnes , Alice and Katherine , sisters of Beatrice , 60 acres of land in Wilby as the right of the said Margery , in which the deforciants had entry only by Thomas de Dereby , father of Beatrice and her 3 sisters , who had only wardship thereof during the nonage of Margery ; William father of Margery was brother of the said Thomas who died seised of that land.¹ In 1227-8 Margery de Bukeham was de mandant , Roger de Harham , Beatrice his wife , Agnes , Alice and Katherine , sisters of Beatrice , tenants , in a fine of land in Wilby.2 


 
 
 In 1275 it was presented that Ranulf de Haricham ( alibi Haren ham ) encroached upon the highway in Wilby.3 In 1276 and 1279 fines were levied between Richard de Boylaund and Matilda his wife and William D'Evereux of the manor of Wilby , and between the same Richard and Matilda and Matilda wife of William D'Evereux of land 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 161] ===
 
 
 WILBY - FRING , SNETTISHAM 145 


 
 
 6 


 in Wilby . From an extent made in 1279 of the land of Robert de Bokenham it appears that he had land in Wilby.5 In 1281 Richard de Boyland and Matilda his wife had a grant of free warren in Wilby , and in 1296 Richard de Boyland died holding a messuage and land in Wilby of the heirs of William de Valence ( d . 1296 ) by the service of I fee ; John son of the said Richard and Elena his wife was aged 22 years.7 In 1302 Matilda de Boylaund held ½ fee in Wilby , Norf . , of Joan de Valoignes and fee there of John de Berdewell ; they held of Hugh de Bukenham ( n . 51 ) , and he of the earl of Arundel.8 In 1316 Richard de Boylaund was one of the lords of Wilby.9 Joan de Valoignes , named above , was the relict of William de Valence , earl of Pembroke . John de Berdewell was of Gasthorpe ( n . 50 ) . 


 4 


 4 


 In 1346 John de Boylaund , knt . , held fee in Wilby , namely a moiety of Joan de Valoignes and another moiety of John de Berdewell , who held of the heir of Hugh de Bokenham and he of the earl of Arundel.10 


 
 
 4 


 
 
 1. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 1381. 2. Norf . Feet of F. i . 41 . i . 473 , 538b . 4. Norf . Feet of F. i . 116 , 119 . 6. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 250. 7. Cal . Inquis . iii . 225 ff . 9. Ibid . 456. 10. Ibid . 551 . 


 iii . 423 . 


 
 
 3. R. Hund . 5. Miscel . Inquis . i . 342 . 8. Feud . Aids , 


 
 
 LXI . 


 Another part of the bishop of Bayeux's manor of Snettisham passed to this fee . 


 
 
 Henry I gave to William de Aubigny the butler the service of Alvred de Athleburch of 2 fees.¹ In 1165 Adam son of Alvred gave 100 marks for the record of a plea against Agnes de Rieburc.2 ( See Warenne , n . 24. ) Adam son of Alvred attested charters of Roger son of Peter de Valoignes I and Peter de Valoignes II to Binham.³ In 1170 Adam son of Alvred gave the earl of Arundel 40s . by the king's writ de ultra mare gratis.4 The same Adam gave to Wymond ham priory land in Carleton Forehoe ; 5 in the time of Henry II Isolda daughter of Alvred de Plesseto gave to the same priory land in Besthorpe and Attleborough , Norf . , and Fimborough , Suff . , with the consent of William de Ardern her son . Some of the lands named , namely in Besthorpe and Carleton Forehoe , were later ( 1302 ) in the possession of William Curzon , but were not held of the fee of Arundel . 


 
 
 Whether the following tenements belonged to the 2 fees held by Alvred de Athleburch or not is quite uncertain . Blomefield's continuator gives a long account of the family of Ingoldesthorp in the Hist . of Norfolk ( ed . 1769 ) , iii . So9 ff . , and traces the line from Alan de Ingoldesthorp , son of Robert de Snetesham , who lived temp . Stephen . Thomas de Ingoldesthorpe held 1 fee in Rainham and Islington , Norf . , in 1212 of the honor of Henry de Essex ( Haughley ) , ' and Thomas son of Thomas de Ingoldesthorp gave to Wymondham priory temp . Henry III land in Sharnborne.8 


 In 1242-3 Thomas de Ingoldesthorp held fee in Snettesham of 


 
 
 III . L 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 162] ===
 
 
 146 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 the earl of Warenne . ( See Warenne , nos . 24 and 41. ) Robert son of Ralph de Snetesham gave various rents in the vill to Thomas de Hingoldestorp.9 In 1243 the service of fee held by Thomas . de Ingoldestorp was assigned to the dower of Isabel countess of Arundel.10 As appears below , the tenement lay in Fring and Snettesham . 


 4 


 
 
 Sir John de Ingoldesthorp was at the battle of Lewes with Sir Henry de Hastinges , but was not against the king afterwards ; of his land in Smithdon hundred William son of Matilda de Snetesham received part of the Michaelmas rent.¹¹ 11 


 It was presented in 1275 that John de Ingoldesthorp withdrew suit of Thomas Bataille's tenement in Snettesham.12 John died in 1283 , holding the manor of Ingoldisthorpe and Snettisham , whereof Ela late the wife of Thomas de Ingoldesthorpe held a fourth part in dower ; Thomas his son was aged 22 years . 13 He held other lands of the earl of Warenne and of the honor of Haughley . 


 Thomas de Ingoldesthorp in 1302 held fee in Fring and Snettis ham of the heirs of Roger de Someri and Nicholaa his wife . 14 He died in 1328 , John his son being aged 33 years.15 This John died in 1335 , leaving Thomas his son , aged 23 years.16 


 
 
 In 1346 Beatrice de Ingoldesthorp and her tenants held fee in Snettisham and Fring of the heirs of Roger de Somery.17 


 
 
 1. Red Bk . 398 . 


 2. Pipe R. II Hen . II , p . 10 . 


 3. Mon. Anglic . 


 iii . 346b , 347. 4. Red Bk . cclxx . 5. Mon. Anglic . iii . 324. 6. Ibid . 


 7. Red Bk . 597 , 741 . 10. Close R. 112. 11 . 13. Cal . Inquis . ii . 283 . vii . 109 . 16. Ibid . 493 . 


 8. Mon. Anglic . iii . 324b . Misc . Inquis . i . 249 , 251 . 12 . 14. Feud . Aids , iii . 410 , 439 . 17. Feud . Aids , iii . 525 . 


 9. Add . ch . 14864 . R. Hund . i . 522b . 15. Cal . Inquis . 


 
 
 LXII . 


 William held 2 carucates in 1086 in Brettenham of John nephew of Waleran . 


 
 
 In 1201 the seneschal of the earl of Arundel demanded against Richard de Bretham half one suit belonging to the earl's hundred , for land which the same Richard held in Brettenham ( Bretham ' ) , which Richard's predecessors did to the earl's predecessors.¹ 


 In 1233 Robert son of Symon de Roinges demanded against Alexander de Brethenham fee in Brettenham of which Robert his grandfather was seised in the time of Henry II , which descended to Simon his son and heir and so to Robert the demandant as son and heir ; that William , father of Robert the grandfather , had besides his eldest son Robert a younger son Alexander , who was grandfather of Alexander the tenant ; the said Alexander stated that William had also a third son Serlo , whom his father William enfeoffed of that land , from which Serlo it descended to Alexander , grandfather of him , the said Alexander , the tenant ; it was adjudged that the assize between them should proceed.2 


 In 1242-3 Alexander de Rohinges held fee in Brettenham of the fee of Margery de Rivers , ³ and in 1244 the service of fee in Brettenham held by Richard Gernagan was assigned to the 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 163] ===
 
 
 BRETTENHAM - BANHAM - WYMONDHAM 147 


 
 
 pourparty of Robert de Tateshale.4 Alexander de Rothing of Brettenham was named in 1275.5 


 
 
 1 


 7 


 1 


 Henry de Rothinge died in 1301 holding land in Brettenham as of the earldom of Albemarle , then in the king's hands , for fee ; Alexander his son was aged 22 years . 6 In 1302 Alexander de Rothyng held fee in Brettenham of the honor of Albemarle ( recte Arundel ) , ( which Henry de Rothyng held in 1346 of the honor of Arundel ) . 8 In 1305 the service of fee in Harling and Bretten ham which John de Fauconer held was assigned to John de Cove and Eva his wife , late wife of Robert de Tateshale , in dower.⁹ There is some uncertainty whether this small tenement ( fee ) was held of the barony of Tateshale or of the fee of Arundel , 10 or of both ; apparently the fee was held of the honor of Arundel . Isabel widow of Warin de Bassingbourne quitclaimed to William de Brianzon , lord of West Thurrock , lands in Brettenham , etc.¹¹ 


 
 
 In 1346 Henry de Rothyngg held fee in Brettenham of the king as of the honor of Arundel , which Alexander de Rothyngg formerly held.12 In 1368 Henry Rothyng held of Sir Robert de L'Isle fee in Brettenham.13 At the same time the heir of Bartholomew Brianzon held fee in Brettenham of the earl of Albemarle . ( Eudes the sewer , n . 46. ) 


 
 
 2. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 8og . 3. Testa , 289 . 5. R. Hund . i . 479 , 538b . 6. Cal . Inquis . iv . 39 . 


 8. Ibid . 551. 9. Cal . Close R. 239. 10. Cf. 


 
 
 1. Abbrev . Placit . 33b . 4. Close R. 248 . 7. Feud . Aids , iii . 423 . Cal . Inquis . ix . 396-7 . 12. Feud . Aids , iii . 551 . 


 
 
 11. Add . Ch . 22566 ; Morant , Essex , i . 91 . 13. Cal . Close R. 497 . 


 
 
 LXIII . 


 
 
 This tenement has not been identified with certainty , but the Hundred Rolls contain reference to the township of Bangham and Ridim [ er ] . ' In the survey of 1086 Berardus held 10 acres of land in ' Benham , ' now Banham . 


 1 


 
 
 6 


 In 1244 the service of fee in Ridmere ' held by Auger de Rising was assigned to the pourparty of John Fitz - Alan of the Arundel inheritance.2 In 1249-50 Auger son of Thomas de Rysinge and Agnes his wife and Robert son of Hugh de Kellinge were parties to a fine of the advowson of the church of Kelling.3 


 1. R. Hund . i . 463. 2. Close R. 250. 3. Norf . Feet of F. i . 78 . 


 
 
 LXIV . 


 This tenement may have been parcel of n . 58 . 


 3 


 Walter Cnot occurs in 1165.¹ Robert Noth and his tenement in Kimberley were confirmed to Wymondham priory by William earl of Sussex ( 1189–93 ) ; 2 Hodierna and Richard Noth gave land in Wootton to the same house , and Gilbert Noth warranted to the monks Robert Noth's land in North and South Wootton.4 John de Ferthington gave to Richard Noth , son of Gilbert de Kemburle ( Kimberley ) , land in South Wootton ; 5 and Richard 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 164] ===
 
 
 148 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 gave land in Wigenhale to Wymondham.6 Basilia daughter of Richard Noth and her husband Henry de Caly each quitclaimed to Wymondham their right to lands in North and South Wootton . " 


 
 
 10 


 In 1244 the service of fee in Wymondham held by the prior and by Basilius Not [ h ] in North Wootton was assigned to the pourparty of John Fitz - Alan . In 1284 John son of Eustace Noth of Kimberley , an idiot , held inter alia a messuage of Robert Noth.⁹ In 1316 William Rusleyn ( sic ) held fee in Wymondham of Isabel de Aubigny , countess of Arundel , 10 and in 1346 the prior of Wymondham held fee in North Wootton and Congham of the earl of Arundel.11 


 40 


 
 
 1. Pipe R. 11 Hen . II , 7. 2. Chartulary , Titus C. viii . f . 18. 3. Mon. Angl . iii . 324 , 3326. 4. Titus C. viii . f . 53d . 5. Mon. Angl . iii . 324b . 7. Ibid . f . 8od . 8. Close R. 250 . 10. Ibid . vi . 41. 11. Feud . Aids , iii . 524 . 


 9. Cal . 


 6. Titus C. viii . f . 1ood . Inquis . ii . 329 . 


 
 
 LXV . 


 This may represent the land of Hermer , or that of Starcolf in Tuddenham , Norf . 


 
 
 In 1244 the service of fee in ' Rampston ' held by Ranulf de Straton was assigned to the pourparty of Roger de Sumery and Nicholaa his wife.¹ 


 3 


 In 1300 Richard de Manteston levied a fine of lands in Tudden ham , Faldgate and Elsing.2 In 1302 Richard de Manteston held fee in North Tuddenham as of the manor of Rising , and in 1346 Thomas de Mandeston held the same , as of the manor of Elsing ( ' Ausyngges ' ) . * 


 4 


 2. Norf . Feet of F. i . 153. 3. Feud . Aids , iii . 426 . 


 
 
 1. Close R. 251 . 4. Ibid . 489 . 


 
 
 LXVI . 


 The bishop of Bayeux had 4 carucates in Stanhoe in 1086 . 


 4 


 Possibly the following tenement belonged to the Belfou fee ( n . 39 ) . In 1221-2 a fine was levied between Harvey son of Richer de Docking and John de Aubigny , parson of the church of Stanhoe.¹ In 1244 the service of fee in Stanhoe , held by Hervey de Stanho , was assigned to the pourparty of Roger de Somery and Nicholaa his wife.2 This Hervey was a justice and special commissioner in Norfolk during the period 1224–1232 . In the latter year he was one of the collectors of the subsidy in that county . He or another Harvey had exemption for life in 1257 from being put on assizes and the like.4 Two years later he ( or his son ? ) was sheriff of Norfolk and Suffolk and constable of Norwich Castle.5 


 
 
 In 1270 Hervey de Stanhow gave to St. Guthlac's , Crowland , land in Lincolnshire , with clause of warranty binding those who held his lands of Stanhoe and Seething , Norfolk . In 1273 the same Hervey held fee of Robert de Tateshale pertaining to his manor of Old Buckenham . He was a special justice in 1276 and had 


 6 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 165] ===
 
 
 STANHOE - MIDDLETON 149 


 
 
 various commissions in Norfolk during the period 1273 to 1283.7 This may possibly be the tenement described under Seething at n . 54. Master Richard de Stanhow , king's clerk , had land at Stanhoe in 1318.8 


 
 
 1. Norf . Feet of F. i . 38 . Pat . R. 537 . 5. Cal . Chart . R. iii . 102 . 8. Ibid . 149 . 


 Pat . R. , pass . 


 
 
 2. Close R. 252. 3. Ibid . 159 . 6. Cal . Inquis . ii . 4 . 


 
 
 4. Cal . 


 7. Cal . 


 
 
 LXVII . 


 Aelod held 2 carucates in Middleton in Freebridge hundred , Norf . , of Hugh de Montfort in 1086 , with 84 acres of sochland . 


 
 
 In 1166 Hoel de Middentone held fee of William de Aubigny the butler of his demesne of Norfolk.¹ This may refer to Middleton in Freebridge hundred , for Maideston in Taverham hundred did not belong to the honor of Arundel.2 


 
 
 Blomefield's continuator gives a long account ( under Middle ton ) of the family of Scales . Roger de Scales and Muriel his wife , with the consent of their sons Robert and William , founded the priory of Markborough in Middleton , and William the son became a canon there . Robert confirmed and augmented his father Roger's gifts.5 


 
 
 3 


 
 
 6 


 In 1194 Roger de Scales put Robert his father in his place in a plea of land in Cotes , Leics . A settlement was made by fine in 1198 between the abbot of Bury and Robert de Scales ( his son and heir Roger appearing for him ) concerning the church of Wether den , Suff . , by which it was agreed that each party should have the advowson of a mediety . " In 1199 Roger was defendant in a plea of land in Wiggenhall , Norf . He died in 1215 , when his land ( in Leicestershire ? ) and his heir were committed to the wardship of Ralph de Trublevill.9 


 
 
 This heir was a son Robert , who confirmed to the nuns of St. Katherine of Blackborough the churches of St. Mary of Middle ton , Norf . , and St. Andrew of Sandon , Essex , and a mediety of the church of Wetherden , Suff . , according to the charters of his grand father Robert de Scales and his father Roger de Scales.10 A fine was levied in 1218-9 , between William de Bello Campo and Matilda his wife and Robert de Scales son of Roger de Scales , concerning land in Lynn , Middleton and other places.11 In 1229 Robert de Scales was a special justice in a Norfolk plea.12 He was on the commission of the peace in Norfolk in 1242,13 and died in 1250 , holding estates in many counties.14 By Alice his wife , who sur vived him , he had a son and heir Robert , and Alice and Robert in 1257-8 paid 17 marks for livery of the manors of Rivenhall , Essex , and Newsells in Barkway , Herts.15 Alice was sister and heir of Peter de Roucestre.16 ( See Eudes the sewer , n . 40. ) 


 
 
 Robert died in 1267 and the wardship of his land and heir was given to Robert Waleraund to the use of John de Brittany , 17 but a few months later the wardship was granted to Clemency widow of Robert on payment of 400 marks.¹ It was in 1275 that the 


 18 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 166] ===
 
 
 150 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 escheator was ordered to deliver his father's lands to Robert son and heir of Robert de Scales , 19 but already in 1270 Robert de Scales III had had a grant of market and fair at his manors of Barkway , Herts . , Islington in Tilney , Norf . , and Worlington , Suff . , and of free warren at Barkway , Herts . , Islington and Middleton , Norf.20 In 1283 he had a similar grant of warren at Rivenhall , Essex , 21 and 3 years later at Scales How and South Lynn , Norf . , and in 4 places in Suffolk.22 


 
 
 In 1275 Robert de Scales held 1 fee in Middleton of the king in chief , and similarly 1 fee in Islington and 4 other places ; 23 he claimed amercements of his men of bread and ale in Tilney and Wiggenhall ; 24 the subescheator took £ 26 from the manor of Middleton of Robert de Scales , which was in the king's hands from the Epiphany to the feast of SS . Simon and Jude ; 25 Sir Roger de Vaux married dame Clementia , relict of Robert de Scales II , whose marriage belonged to the king.26 


 In 1302 Sir Robert de Scales held fee in South Lynn ( and Middleton ) of Robert de Mohaut.27 He died in 1305 holding jointly with Isabel his wife inter alia land in Middleton , of which they had been enfeoffed by Richard Waylaund of Frameden and Joan his wife by fine levied ( in 1289 ) , of Robert de Mohaut for 1 fee ; Robert his son was aged 26 years.28 In 1335 the service of Robert de Scales in Middleton , Norf . , was conveyed to queen Isabel by Robert de Morlee , kinsman and heir of Robert de Mohaut.29 In 1346 Robert de Scales held fee in Middleton and Tilney of Isabel Queen of England as of the lands formerly of Robert Mohaut , for which the said Robert de Scales was charged for relief in the time of Edward I.30 


 4 


 2 


 
 
 1. Red Bk . 398. 2. See Cal . Chart . R. ii . 148 , 286 ; R. Hund . i . 450 , 528. 3. Mon. Angl . iv . 206 . 4. Ibid . 207 . 5. Ibid . 206. 6. R. Cur . Regis , i . 18. 7. Feet of F. ( Pipe R. Soc . xxiii . ) , 118. 8. Ibid . ii . 22 . 9. R. Lit. Claus . i . 217. 10. Mon. Angl . iv . 207. 11. Norf . Feet of F. i . 55 . 12. Pat . R. 302 . 13. Close R. 485 . 14. Ibid . 258. 15. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 326 ; Dugdale Baronage , citing Pipe R. 42 Hen . III . 16. Cal . Inquis . i . 100. 17. Cal . Pat . R. 28. 18. Ibid . 115 , 299 . 19. Cal . Close R. 207 . 20. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 146. 21. Ibid . 266. 22. Ibid . 331 . 23. R. Hund . i . 460b , 461. 24. Ibid . 461. 25. Ibid . 463b . 26. Ibid . 27. Feud . Aids , vi . 554. 28. Cal . Inquis . iv . 220 . 29. Cal . Pat . R. 130 . 30. Feud . Aids , iii . 521 . 


 
 
 LXVIII . 


 Turold in 1086 held of Roger Bigod 60 acres in Thorpe ( Bacons thorpe ) . 


 
 
 Blomefield's continuator gives some account , apparently very incorrect , of the early tenants of this and other fees , in the History of Norfolk ( vi . 502 ) . In Trinity term 1195 recognition was made that Roger Bacun wrongfully disseised Silvester son of Simon of his free tenement in Thorpe , Norfolk.¹ In 1199 Roger Bacun . was one of four knights who elected 12 to make a recognition in a plea of land in Plumstead , Wolterton and Barningham.2 In 1208 Philip son of Hamon de Dalling claimed the next presentation 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 167] ===
 
 
 BACONSTHORPE 151 


 
 
 to the church of Dalling against Roger Bacun , who was cast in the suit.³ In 1211 Roger Bacun had to render account as to 100 marks due for his delivery from prison.ª In 1216 Roger Bacon was one of many who were taken in arms against King John , probably in the castle of Framlingham , but were later received into the king's grace on finding hostages ; Roger Bacon so found Roger his nepos.5 In the ensuing year he returned to allegiance to King Henry and recovered possession of his land in Norfolk.6 


 
 
 In 1218-19 a fine of land in Attleborough was levied between Ralph son of Peter and Thomas de Heyngham . " 


 
 
 9 


 In 1228 there was a fine of land in Thorpe between Robert Bacun and Roger de Hengham , and of rent in Thorpe between the same Robert and William de Hengham . In 1230 Andrew de Hengham was with Warin de Muntchenesy in the king's service beyond seas . In 1243 the service offee ( in Baconsthorpe ) held by Thomas de Heingham was assigned to the dower of Isabel countess of Arundel , 10 and doubtless to the pourparty of Roger de Mohaut . In the same year Thomas Bacon held of the earl of Warenne's fee fee in Dalling ( Warenne , n . 2 ) ; 11 Thomas de Bacunthorp held fee in Deepham 1444 of Alina Marshall of the honor of Rye ; 12 and Reginald Bacon held fee in Letheringsett and part of 1 fee in Hackford of the fee of Clare . 13 In 1245 Thomas Bacun had a grant of market and fair at his manor of Loddon.14 


 
 
 In 1272 George Bacun had a grant of free warren in Bacons thorpe , Loddon , Field Dalling and Cockthorpe , Norf.15 


 It was presented in 1275 that certain horses of Robert de Bacunestorp in Deepham had been taken for distraint ; 16 that Roger Bacun had warren and fairs in Loddon , and markets there jointly with the abbot of Langley ; 17 the cattle of Roger Bacun in Dalling were seized , ¹8 and also money levied from him for release of distrained beasts in Holt hundred ( apparently in Lethering sett ) ; 19 that John de Burgh , father of the then John de Burgh , appropriated to himself a third part of two suits and a fourth part of a suit in the vill of Baconsthorpe , which George Bacun , James de Thorp and William Breton used to owe and perform.20 In the same year ( 1275 ) Thomas de Hengham held fee in Baconsthorpe of the manor of Rising , late of Robert de Mohaut.21 


 In 1282 a fine of land in Baconsthorpe was levied between James de Thorp and Robert de Hengham , 22 and in the ensuing year tenements in Deepham and Hackford were held by Robert de Bakknesthorp for fee and by William de Blunvill for fee of John le Marshal.23 In 1285 Robert de Hengham had a grant of free warren in Hingham , Attleborough , Ellingham , Deepham , Brandon , Hempstead and North Plumstead , Norf.24 In 1286 a fine of 22s . 6d . of rent in Baconsthorpe , Tune ' Barningham and ' North Wode ' Barningham was levied between Roger Bacun and Edward Swathyng and Alice his wife.25 


 C 


 
 
 In the same year Andrew de Hengham was summoned to answer the king for 96 marks , being 2 marks yearly rent in arrears for Andrew's tenements in Shropham . Andrew replied that he and all his ancestors held their lands of William son of Warin de 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 168] ===
 
 
 152 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 Muntchenesy ( n . 38 ) , and that the earl of Chester was never in seisin of the said rent whereby anything could accrue to the king by an alleged exchange between the king and the earl of Chester . A jury , including Robert de Bacunesthorp , stated that an earl of Chester gave the tenement in Shropham to one Ulketell his chaplain for 2 marks rent , which tenement descended to Henry son of the said Ulketell and then to Richard brother of the said Henry , who enfeoffed Andrew father of this Andrew ; and that the king was not in seisin of the said rent after the exchange made between Henry III and the earl of Chester's heirs.26 


 
 
 Roger Bacon was one of a jury on a South Erpingham plea in 1286.27 William de Hengham died in 1297 holding lands in Hing ham and Hackford of Andrew de Hengham his brother , who was his heir , and did not hold the said lands of the heir of John le Marshal , 28 


 
 
 4 


 In 1302 Thomas Bacon held fee in Baconsthorpe of Sir Robert son of Roger ; 29 in Yelverton fee was held of Robert de Bacones thorpe , who held of the earl of Warenne.30 In North Wode ' Barningham fee was held of Robert de Baconesthorpe , who held of Roger Fitz - Osbert and he of Roger Bigod , earl of Norfolk , 31 formerly of the Creake inheritance . Thomas Bakun held 1 fee in Dalling of Robert le Virluy , who held of Hugh Bardolf and he of the earl of Warenne ; 32 also fee in Holkham and Cock thorpe of the same Hugh Bardolf , who held of the bishop of Norwich ; also fee in Loddon and Hardley of the heir of Mont fichet.33 Robert de Baconesthorp , knt . , held fee in Bacons thorpe of Sir Roger Fitz - Osbern of Somerleton.34 ( See Warenne , n . 5 ) . In 1314 the heirs of Thomas Bacon held lands in Lethering sett and Dalling of the honor of Clare.35 ( Giffard , n . 57. ) In 1316 Robert de Baconesthorp held fee in Hingham and Baconsthorpe of Isabel de Aubigny , countess of Arundel ; 36 and the same year he was joint lord of Baconsthorpe , Attleborough , Hingham and Wel borne . His son Edmund held his tenements in 1346 , and Margery relict of Roger Bacon held the Arundel tenement in Baconsthorpe.37 Roger Bacoun of Baconesthorpe was named in 1323.38 In 1327 Roger Bacoun held 1 fee in Loddon of Margaret late wife of Richard de Plaiz.39 In 1330 Edmund de Baconesthorp held 1 fee in Carleton and Quarles of Beatrice late wife of Robert son of John de Thorp , and Thomas Bacoun held of the same 1 fee in Deepdale.40 In 1335 the service of Thomas de Hengham in Baconsthorpe was conveyed to Queen Isabel by Robert de Morlee , kinsman and heir of Robert de Mohaut.41 The reference to Thomas de Hengham is clearly anachronous ; the name should be Roger de Hengham alias Bacon . 


 
 
 In 1339 Edmund de Baconesthorp and Roger Bacoun , knights , attested a Hempstead charter.42 


 
 
 There appear to have been two distinct families at Bacons thorpe and elsewhere ; one bearing the local name of Heingham or Hengham and holding of the fee of Arundel , of whom were : Thomas de Hengham ( 1219 ) ; a second Thomas , alias Thomas Bacun ( 1242-1275 ) ; Robert de Hengham , ( 1282-5 ) , possibly to be 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 169] ===
 
 
 BACONSTHORPE - HAPPISBURGH 153 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 identified as Robert de Baconsthorpe ; Thomas Bacon ( 1302-1316 ) , and Roger Bacon , knt . ( 1323-1340 ) . Of the other line , holding of Warenne , were : Roger Bacon ( 1199-1217 ) ; Reginald Bacon ( 1242-3 ) ; George Bacon ( 1272-5 ) , and Roger his supposed brother ( 1275-1286 ) ; Robert de Baconsthorpe ( 1302-1316 ) and his son Edmund de Baconsthorpe , knt . ( 1316-1346 ) . 


 
 
 2. Ibid . ii . 191 . 


 9. Pat . R. 357 . 13. Ibid . 288 . 


 15. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 181 . 


 1. R. Cur . Regis , i . 374 . R. de Fin . 443 ; Pipe R. 10 John , m . 8d . 5. R. Lit. Claus . i . 254b . 6. Ibid . 333 . 8. Feet of F. Norf . 12 Hen . III . 11. Testa , 287. 12. Ibid . 2886 . i . 287 . 16. R. Hund . i . 449 . 4716. 18. Ibid . 486b . 19. Ibid . 493b . 20. Ibid . 4956 , 516. 21. Cal . Inquis . ii . 84. 22. Norf . Feet of F. i . 123. 23. Cal . Inquis . ii . 282 . 24. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 305. 25. Norf . Feet of F. i . 133. 26. Placit . de quo war . 489b . 27. Ibid . 486. 28. Cal . Inquis . iii . 261. 29. Feud . Aids , vi . 553. 30. Ibid . iii . 428 , 430. 31. Ibid . 435 . 32. Ibid . 420 , 34. Ibid . vi . 553 . 35. Cal . Inquis . v . 347 . 37. Feud . Aids , iii . pass . 38. Cal . Pat . R. 316 . 40. Cal . Close R. 48 . 41. Cal . Pat . R. 130 . 


 421 . 33. Ibid . 433 . 36. Cal . Inquis . vi . 41 . 39. Cal . Close R. 174 . 42. Cal . Anct . D. ii . A. 3142 . 


 
 
 4 . 


 
 
 3. Abbrev . Placit . 64 ; Pipe R. 13 John , m . 20 . 7. Norf . Feet of F. i . 35 . 10. Close R. 112 . 14. Cal . Chart . R. 17. Ibid . 


 
 
 LXIX . 


 The king in 1086 had 13 carucates in Happisburgh . 


 3 


 William de Mylieres attested the foundation charter of Wymond ham , 1107.¹ Hugh de Milleres of Norfolk occurs in 1130.2 Possibly some of the particulars given under nos . 35 and 58 belong to this tenement . In 1165 Humphrey de Milleres owed an amercement of 40 marks in Suffolk , and Roger de Arundel owed 40s . for seisin of land which he held of the same Humphrey . In 1166 Richard de Milliers held 2 fees of old feoffment , and Humphrey de Milliers I fee of new feoffment , of William de Avranches . Humphrey was sewer to William earl of Arundel ; 5 and William de Milliers tests a charter of William earl of Sussex of the period 1175-83.6 Humphrey de Miliers was a benefactor of Wymondham priory and Matilda his wife gave the same house 2s . rent from her free maritagium in Wymondham.8 William de Miliers confirmed this gift by his mother.9 William son of Humphrey de Milliers occurs in 1189.10 Again , William de Milliers was a Norfolk debtor in 1207,11 in which year he gave £ 100 for the redemption of William his son , William earl of Arundel being pledge for his fine.12 These two , father and son , attested a charter of William earl of Sussex to Bucken ham priory.13 William de Miliers made a gift to Wymondham dated in the octave of St. John Baptist ( 1 July ) after the consecra tion of Ranulf bishop of Chichester ( 1218 ) , when he was himself about to set off to the Holy Land.14 Hugh de Milliers was party to a fine of land in Dalling and Guestwick in 1209-10,15 and tested a charter of William earl of Sussex to the abbey of Robertsbridge.16 Some further references for the period 1215-1227 will be found at n . 35 above . 


 
 
 In 1239-40 Godfrey de Mileres was a party to a fine of land in Happisburgh.17 Godfrey de Miliers gave the priory a man in 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 170] ===
 
 
 154 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 Happisburgh.18 William son of Godfrey gave Nettlehampstead to Wymondham , his father confirming the same ; 19 Roger de Montalt also confirmed the gift.20 As will be seen below it is likely that in 1244 the service of William de Mileres in Wymondham , Happis burgh and Rising was assigned to the pourparty of Roger de Mohaut of the Arundel inheritance . In 1253-4 and 1255-6 fines were levied between William de Mileres and Godfrey de Mileres respecting 20 the manors of Wymondham , Happisburgh and Rising , and ( 2 ) lands in Wymondham and Happisburgh.21 In 1275 William de Miliers . held 1 fee in Wymondham , Happisburgh , Rising and Wootton of Robert de Mohaut as of his manor of Castle Rising.22 In 1302 William Milliers and William Hautein held fee in Happisburgh of Robert de Mohaut , and the heir of William de Milers held fee in Wymondham of the manor of Rising.23 In 1316 William de Miliers was one of the lords of Happisburgh.24 In 1318 , as of Happisburgh , he acknowledged a debt to Aymer de Valence , earl of Pembroke.25 


 I 


 
 
 In 1335 the service of the heirs of William de Milleres in Wymondham , Happisburgh and Rising was conveyed to Queen Isabel by Robert de Morlee , kinsman and heir of Robert de Mohaut of Rising.26 In 1346 William Milleres and his parceners ( sic ) held 


 3 


 fee in Happisburgh of the heir of Robert de Mohaut ; John Lythare , John de Bonigton and their tenants held fee in Wymondham of the manor of Rising , which the heirs of William de Mileres formerly held.27 


 
 
 1. Mon. Angl . iii . 330. 2. Pipe R. 31 Hen . I , p . 93 . II , p . 92. 4. Red Bk . 193. 5. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 169 . 


 
 
 3. Ibid . II Hen . 6. Ibid . iii . 368 . 8. Ibid . 9. Ibid . 12. R. Lit. 15. Norf . 


 11. R. de Fin . 411 . 


 14. Titus C. viii . f . 33 . 


 7. Wymondham Chartulary , Titus C. viii . f . 33 . 10. Yeatman , House of Arundel , 222 . Pat . 71 . 13. Mon. Anglic . vi . 419 Feet of F. i . p . 31. 16. Mon. Anglic . v . 668. 17. Norf . Feet of F. i . p . 67 . 19. Ibid . f . 75 , 75d . 21. Norf . Feet of F. pp . 87-8 . 22. Cal . Inquis . ii . 84 . 435 , 445. iii . 24. Ibid . 469. 25. Cal . Close R. 612 . 27. Feud . Aids , iii . 505 , 535 . 


 18. Titus C. viii . f . 1ood . 


 20. Ibid . 75d . 23. Feud . Aids , 26. Cal . Pat . R. 


 130 . 


 
 
 LXX . 


 Henry I gave to William de Aubigny his butler the service of I knight's fee ( in Norfolk ) of Reiner Sanzaveir ( ' Sine Averio ' ) and of I knight's fee ( in Norfolk ) of William de Mustervill.¹ No trace of these fees has been discovered , but Mustervill may be a mis reading for Musteroill , the name of a prominent tenant of the honor of Boulogne.2 In 1217 William de Musteroill of Norfolk returned to allegiance and had writs of reseisin.3 Roger de Mustrol was a special justice in Norfolk in 1229.4 In 1279 Adam de Mustroyl passed by fine to Hamon his son land in Hunstanton and Walpole , Norf . 5 


 
 
 Bartholomew Sanzaver confirmed a grant to master Walter de Raveningham , his wife Olive and son William ; and there are other grants to Roger son of Walter de Raveningham . Robert son of Walter confirmed to Roger de Halis a tenement formerly belonging 


 
 
 1 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 171] ===
 
 
 RINGLETON , KNOWLTON 155 


 
 
 to Bartholomew Sanz Aver in Hales and Kirby Cane . These notes are from an old list of Hales family charters for lands in Loddon.6 


 
 
 1. Red Bk . 398 . Claus . i . 3156 , 322 . Norf . , 7 Edw . I. 


 
 
 2. Pipe R. 8 Hen . II , 70 ; Red Bk . 575. 3. R. Lit. 4. Close R. 384 ; Pat . R. 306 . 5. Feet of F. , 6. Add . ch . 16533 . 


 
 
 LXXI . 


 Ringleton , Kent , was held by Herbert in 1086 , at farm from the king . It was of the fee of the bishop of Bayeux . Knowlton was held by Turstin of the bishop of Bayeux . 


 Nigel de Aubigny had land in Towersey , Bucks . , which was held later by the descendants of Pirot . Nigel de Wast was the under tenant in 1086.1 


 
 
 Pirot held of Nigel de Aubigny 4 hides in Streatley , Beds . , viz . 3 hides of the maritagium of Pirot's wife and I hide in fee of Nigel de Aubigny , and in Wyboston Pirot held 9 hides and I virgate of the king as of Nigel's fee.2 The said Nigel held Harling ton in demesne . In Beeston Pirot held I hide of Eudes son of Hubert and I hide in Northill similarly.3 


 
 
 Pirot held of Eudes dapifer a manor in Hawkwell , Essex.¹ 


 Pirot held of Eudes son of Hubert 1 virgate in Babraham , Cambs . , and 4 hides in Sawston.5 


 Some account of this family will be found under Eudes the sewer , n . 24 . 


 Alan son of Pirot gave to St. Albans his chapel of Knowlton , with tithes . Alan Pirot appears in 1166 in the carta of William de Aubigny the butler as the feoffee of 6 knights ' fees , part of II fees which John count of Eu had in marriage with Alice daughter of William earl of Arundel , namely of part of the said butler's demesne in Kent . " John count of Eu confirmed to Lewes priory all the gifts made by his men , Robert the butler , William de Eu ( John's uncle ) , Geoffrey de Bailloil , Guy de Bonuncourt , Miles de Langetot and Robert de Chrevill . See also nos . 72-75 . 


 Alan Pirot gave to Bermondsey 6000 herrings from his manor of ' Erchelawis . ' 9 The gift is assigned to the year 1152 , but may 


 have been made at an earlier date . 


 Ralph Pirot and his wife were buried at Colchester . Their son Ralph gave to that monastery land in Carlton and Babraham , Cambs . , and in Harlington , Beds.10 His charter was for the souls of himself and his wife Mahalt etc. , and was attested by his brothers , William and John Pirot . In 1166 Ralph Pirot held 5 fees of Robert de Aubigny of Cainho , 4 fees of Henry Fitz - Gerold of the fee of Eudes the sewer , 5 fees of Geoffrey de Ver of the honor of John the seneschal , 2 fees of Nigel bishop of Ely and , presumably , 6 fees of the count of Eu , who held nominally of the honor of Arundel , 11 and fee or more of the archbishop of Canterbury.12 John Pirot held I fee of Robert de Aubigny.13 


 
 
 In 1201 Ralph Pirot III owed 15 marks in Essex , in respect of these 4 fees , to escape service beyond seas and to recover land of 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 172] ===
 
 
 156 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 which he had been dispossessed by reason of a disseisin done by him to John count of Eu.14 In 1217 he and Alan Pirot , both of Kent , returned to allegiance.15 In 1214 Richard Pirot , son of Ralph ( died 1222 ) , had been excused the scutage of Poitou in respect . of 2 fees in Kent.16 In 1223 the prior of Dunstable recovered against Richard Pirot the right of presentation to the church of Harlington , Beds.17 The prior defended that Ralph Pirot , grand father of Richard the plaintiff , presented his clerk to the church of Harlington and then gave the church to Dunstable by charter produced ; Richard alleged that if Ralph made the gift he did so after he had divested himself of his land and had taken the habit in Woburn abbey ; this the prior denied , alleging that Ralph held his lands for 10 years after he made the charter.18 Richard Pirot died in 1228,19 and the same year Ralph , brother and heir of Richard Pirot , did homage for the lands which his brother lately held in chief of the crown . 20 In 1232 Ralph Pirot IV was found to be brother and heir of Richard , deceased , and he successfully defended his right to 1 carucate in Windridge , near St. Albans , by descent from his said brother.21 


 
 
 In 1242 Ralph Pirot held 2 fees in Knowlton and Ringleton , Kent , of the countess of Eu , who held them of the earl of Arundel , and Roger de Gatinden held 1 fee in Gatesdenne in Tenterden , Kent , of Simon de la Haye , he of Ralph Pirot , and Ralph as above.22 Ralph also held in chief 2 fees in Lindsell and Hawkwell , Essex , 23 and 4 fees in Harlington of the honor of Cainho , in Bedfordshire and Buckinghamshire , which ( it is added ) ought to be apportioned , half to Isabella ( de Aubigny ) and half to Ralph ( Pirot ) .24 He died in 1252 holding of the crown the manor of Lindsell for 2 fees and the vill of Sawston for 2 fees ; Ralph Pirot , knt . , his son and heir , was aged over 26 years.25 In 1262 the priory of Dunstable recovered the patronage of Harlington church against Ralph nephew of Richard Pirot.26 


 
 
 Ralph Pirot was one of those who in 1264 held Northampton against the king , 27 and in consequence of his disaffection his mes suage in Knowlton was granted to Roger de Leyburn.28 In 1266 he was in the Isle of Ely , but surrendered to Edward the king's son and made his peace with Henry.29 In 1275 he held 1 fee in Knowlton of William de Leyburn , who held in chief , by service of Dover Castle , and Henry Pirot held 1 fee in Ringleton of Ralph , who held as above.30 Ralph also held 2 carucates in Lindsell in chief , 31 the vill of Harlington for I fee of Aumary de St. Amand , as of the barony of Cainho ; Richard de Turs held 1 fee in Towersey and John de Morton & fee there , both holding of Ralph Pirot , and he of the barony of Cainho.32 In 1284-5 ( or 1302-3 ) Ralph Pirot held 2 fees in Knowlton and Ringleton of the honor of Eu.33 Thomas de Gatesdenne held 1 fee in Gatesdenne in Tenterden of William del I Hay of Beamonstown ( Beaumundeston ) .34 


 I 


 Ralph V died at an advanced age in 1305 , his heir being his grandson Ralph , aged 14 , son of Ralph VI.35 Shortly before his death he had enfeoffed his younger son Simon of the manors of Sawston and Lindsell to hold for life.36 Simon and his wife . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 173] ===
 
 
 RINGLETON , KNOWLTON - BENENDEN 157 


 
 
 Jacquemin were living in 1315,37 but Simon apparently died in 1319 without issue , and in that year Simon Pirot , kinsman and heir of Simon Pirot , tenant in chief , obtained livery of the land that Simon Pirot his uncle had held in chief at his death.38 The younger Simon and his widow Elizabeth occur in 1329 , in connexion with Sawston.39 


 
 
 Thomas Perot , or Pirot , perhaps another son of Ralph V , died in 1330 , holding the manor of Knowlton of Juliana , heir of William de Leybourn , whom William de Clynton had married ; Thomas Pirot , son of Simon , grandson of the said Thomas , was his next heir , aged 2 years . In the inquisition post mortem of Thomas he 


 40 


 is said to have held the manor of Knowlton for 2 fees , as of the manor of Elham , which was then in the king's hands by the forfeiture of Henry de Leyburn . The young heir died in 1331 . 


 Master Thomas Pyrot , Doctor of the Civil Law , was a monk of St. Albans in 1308.43 


 
 
 1. V. C. H. Bucks . i . 268. 2. V. C. H. Beds . i . 244-5 . 3. Ibid . 236 . 4. V. C. H. Essex , i . 4936. 5. Farrer , Feudal Cambs . 52 , 263. 6. Mon. Anglic . ii . 221. 7. Red Bk . 398 ; Complete Peerage ( ed . Gibbs ) , v . 157 . 8. Chartulary , Vesp . F. xv . f . 81. 9. Annales Mon. iii . 439. 10. Chartul . of Colchester , 179. 11. Red Bk . 2756 to 298 , pass . 12. Ibid . 13. Ibid . 324. 14. R. de Oblat . 152 ; R. Canc . 160. 15. R. L. Claus . i . 325 , 327 . 16. R. L. Claus . i . 1776. 17. Annals of Dunstable , 80. 18. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 1572 . 19. Ibid . 109. 20. Excerpt . i . 166. 21. Bracton's These 3 fees are elsewhere described Crekelaw and Dene : Bk . of Fees , 1152 . 24. Testa , 25ob . 25. Cal . Inquis . i . 60. 26. Ann . of 27. Ibid . 229. 28. Cal . Chart . ii . 56. 29. Cal . Pat . R. , 31. Ibid . 157. 32. Ibid . 4b , 25. 33. Feud . 


 22. Testa , 209 . 


 Note - Bk . n . 870 . as being in the 3 places named and in 23. Ibid . 266b . 


 
 
 Dunstable , 217 . 


 30. R. Hund . i . 207b . pass . Aids , iii . 24 . 34. Ibid . 37. 35. Cal . Inquis . iv . 222. 36. Cal . Close , 1305 , p . 282 . 37. Cal . Pat . R. 163 , 334 . 38. Cal . Close , 1319 , p . 67 . 39. Cal . Pat . R. 375. 40. Cal . of Fine R. iv . 210. 41. Cal . Inquis . vii . 213 . 43. Hist . Abbat . Mon. S. Albani , ii . 165 , 175 . 


 42. Cal . Fine R. iv . 280 . 


 
 
 LXXII . 


 In Benenden , Kent , Robert de Romenel held solin of the bishop of Bayeux in 1086 ; Adam son of Hubert similarly held one denne of jugum , which remained beyond the division of Hugh de Montfort and belonged to ' Belice . ' In Frinstead Hugh nepos of Hubert and Adelold the chamberlain held of the bishop I solin . Robert Latiner had I solin in Herbretiton , ' which appears to be the present Harbledown , where lands of this fee afterwards lay . 


 There is little information to be found in the Public Records respecting this feudal tenement . It is possible that a moiety of the tenement no . 71 became merged in this , possibly by the grant of a maritagium . 


 
 
 In the time of Stephen Peter de Cherbourg ( de Caesaris burgo ) held 3 fees of the maritagium of the count of Eu , as in no . 71 . 


 Wigein de Cheresburc attested the gift of Humphrey de Bohun the constable to the canons of St. Denis near Southampton of the church of Chilworth , Hants.¹ It is possible that the Cheresburghs were tenants of the honor of Bohun and alienated this feudal 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 174] ===
 
 
 158 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 tenement to their chief lord , de Bohun . Ralph de Chieresburh had been sewer of William de Albini , the butler of Henry I.2 


 Nothing further is found in relation to the tenement until 1185 , when Herbert de Rulvinden was amerced.3 King Richard in 1199 and John de Eu , son of John count of Eu , in 1200-1205 confirmed to the monks of Robert's Bridge land held by those monks of the fee of Randulf de Hethindenne , belonging to the fee of Maiham.4 In 1200 Aumauri de Landry was demanding against Everard de Hethendenn and 4 others as his escheat a carucate in ' Roverinden , ' into which they intruded after the outlawry of Hamon de Hare windinden , who held the land of the ancestors of the said Everard.5 Felicia the wife of William de Wichelegh was claiming in 1230 against William de Langham and Cecily his wife ( who were tenants of the honor of Folkestone ) a third part of certain woodland and rent in Rolvenden , Hendon in Woodchurch ( Hethingden ) and Oxendale , Kent.6 


 
 
 The return made of this tenement to the Gascon scutage of 1242-3 is invaluable . It records the following tenements as all ( except the first ) held of Orabel de Mayhamm , who held of the earl of Hereford , he of Alice countess of Eu and she of the earl of Arundel : 


 
 
 Joan de Binindenn 1 fee in Beninden of the countess of Eu , etc. 


 
 
 Orabel de Mayham I fee in Matham , and Helwise de May ham fee in Matham of the earl of Hereford ( as above ) . 


 The heir of Josc [ eus ? ] de Egerindenn fee in Taninden of the same Helwise , and she of Orabel her elder sister , and she ( as above ) . 


 
 
 1 


 3 


 
 
 Thomas son of Aucher or Ankerfee in Lossenham of Ralph de St. Ledger , and he of the prior of Leeds , and the prior of the same Helwise de Mayham , and she of the earl of Hereford ( as above ) . 


 
 
 The abbot of Robert's Bridge fee in Cnocke , ' fee in ' Wockele ' ( vel Wokelee ) and fee ( no place named ) , all held of Orabel de Mayham , who held of the earl of Hereford ( as above ) . 


 16 


 
 
 0 


 
 
 , 


 
 
 3 


 4 


 
 
 1 


 
 
 Josc [ eus ] Poynant fee in Rolvenden of William de Hethindenn , and he of Orabel de Mayham ( as above ) . 


 40 


 William de Hethindenn fee and fee in ' Hethindenn ' of the same Orabel ( as above ) . 


 1 


 The heir of Robert de Merelee ( vel Merelis ) † fee in Staple hurst of Helwise de Mayham , and she of the same Orabel ( as above ) . 


 
 
 4 


 
 
 Orabel de Mayham and Helwise her sister fee in Harble down ( Hubtinton ' sic ) of the earl of Hereford ( as above ) . 


 
 
 Fulk Payforer fee in Frinstead of the said Orabel ( as above ) . Total 5 % fees . ? 


 
 
 Of the honor of Perche the following tenements were at that date held of Simon de Crioll : 


 
 
 Richard and Thomas , sons of Orabel de Mayham , fee in Newington . 


 6 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 175] ===
 
 
 BENENDEN , MATHAM , ROLVENDEN 159 


 
 
 Helwise de Mayham fee in Newington.8 


 6 


 The abbot of Robert's Bridge & fee in Knokk ' at‘Foukes brok . ' 


 
 
 4 


 Nicholas Aucher fee in Lossenham of Ralph de St. Ledger . [ The tenements in Rolvenden , Hethinden and Staple hurst are not mentioned . ] 


 
 
 4 


 John Malmayns and Simon de Mareys fee in Harble down ( ' Herbylton ' ) , late of Orabel de Mayhamme and others , who held of the count ( sic ) of Eu , of the honor of Hagenet ( sic , for Arundel ? ) . 


 William Payforer fee in Frinstead , late of Orabel de Mayhamme , who held of the count ( sic ) of Eu , as of the king ( sic ) .9 


 In or before 1242 Henry son of Roger Malemeyns did homage for land in Kent.10 Nicholas and Peter de Mahon of Kent occur in 1268.11 In 1266 the land of Thomas Malemeins in the hundred of Hoo , Kent , was seized by the earl of Gloucester.12 In 1275 the abbot of Robert's Bridge held three - fourths of the fee of Hethinden ( Hechinden ' ) by the feoffment of Ralph ( Rad ' ) de Hethenden 40 years before . The names of Simon de Meham , Hawise de Meyham , Fulk Peyforer , late sheriff of Kent , were mentioned in connexion with Rolvenden hundred.13 John Malemeins died in 1281.14 In 1285 Herbert Barry granted to Matthew del Eschequer and Matilda his wife , daughter of the grantor , 5 marks of rent in Matham ( Mayhamme ' ) .15 In 1289 William Barry of Rolvenden complained that William de Poton neglected to repair his sea - bank in the marsh of Neubrok in Rolvenden , near the sea - coast between Small Hythe ( Smalhede ) and Matham ( Mayhamme ) ; 16 he also complained in like manner in 1290 against John Malemeins of neglect . to repair the sea - bank in Westbrok marsh in Rolvenden by the sea - shore between Matham and Newenden , 17 against whom Hugh de Herindenne and others also complained.18 


 
 
 In 1295 the church of Rolvenden was in the king's hands by reason of wardship of the land and heir of Thomas de Malemeins , tenant in chief.19 


 
 
 In 1298 there was mention , in a plea in which the character of gavelkind tenure was defined , William , Fulk , and Richard , the sons of Hugh Peyforer ; 20 and in the same year William Barry recovered from John Malemeyns the balance of £ 7 due for damages which he had sustained by the non - repair of certain ditches , sewers and banks , which the said John ought to have maintained in respect of his tenure of lands in the marsh of Westbroc and Rolvenden by the edge of the marsh between Matham and Newenden.21 


 
 
 In 1302 the tenements described above were held as follows : follows : 


 
 
 Roger de Benyndenn and his tenants I fee in Benenden of the earl of Hereford . 


 
 
 John Malmayns fee in Matham of the same earl . 


 William Barry fee in Matham ( as above ) . 


 
 
 [ Taninden is not mentioned . ] 


 Nicholas Ancher fee in Matham [ in Taninden ' in 1242-3 ] of John Malmayns . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 176] ===
 
 
 або HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 From these returns it appears that John Malemeyns held the tenements formerly Orabel's , and William Barry those that were formerly Helwise's . 


 In 1308 William Barry of Rolvenden and another complained of Thomas son of Hubert de Hethyndenne and three others for neglect of sea - walls in the marshes of Matham and Gatesden.22 In 1313 John Malemeins of Stoke was a commissioner of sewers for either side of the river Newenden , between Matham and the bridge of Bodiam.2 23 


 
 
 In 1318 John Malemeyns of Hoo obtained a grant of free warren in his demesne lands in Stoke , Rolvenden , and 8 other places in Kent.24 


 
 
 1. Mon. Anglic . vi . 214 . 2. Textus Roff . 173 , 176 . 3. Pipe R. 31 Hen . II , 231. 4. Mon. Anglic . v . 667b , 668b . 5. R. de Oblat . 97 ; R. Cancel . 221. 6. Close R. 388. Cf. Cal . Inquis . i . 173 , 254. 7. Testa , 209 , 2116. 8. Ibid . 212. 9. Feud . Aids , iii . 38-9 . 10. Abbrev . Placit . 1196. Cf. Excerpt . Fin . i . 388. 11. Cal . Pat . R. 273. 12. Cal . of Misc . Ing . i . 225 . 13. R. Hund . i . 2176–8 . 14. Cal . Fine R. i . 150 . 15. Abbrev . Placit . 208b . 16. Cal . Pat . R. 320 . 17. Ibid . 390. 18. Ibid . 19. Ibid . 136. 20. Abbrev . Placit . 238 . R. 168. 23. Ibid . 134 . 24. Cal . Chart . iii . 406 . 


 452 . 


 21. Ibid . 


 22. Cal . Pat . 


 
 
 LXXIII . 


 1 


 Overland and Wyntring ' were probably involved in the bishop of Bayeux's demesne estate of Elham , Kent . In the time of Henry I Roger de Verli held one knight's fee of the count of Eu's mari tagium ( as in no . 71 ) . Possibly for Verli ' we ought to read ' Valoignes , ' and this knight's fee may have represented the tene ment in Overland . In 1215 land in ' Everland , ' late of Robert de Valoignes , was committed to William Parvus.2 The said Robert had been in arms against the king , but in 1217 he returned to allegiance . He was living in 1229 , when he had a plea against John prior of the Holy Trinity , Canterbury , respecting common of pasture belonging to Harbledown.4 


 In 1242 Bertram de Crioll , constable of Dover , was directed to deliver to William de Cantelupe the custody of the heirs of Hamon de Valoignes ( died 1242 ) and of the said Hamon's land in Kent and three other counties.5 In 1259 Hamon son and heir of the said Hamon had terms for payment of his father's debt to Jewry.6 There is no evidence that Hamon his father ever held Overland . 


 
 
 In 1240 Bertram de Cryol was directed to deliver to Burgia , late the wife of Peter de Bendenges , in the name of her dower , fee in Everland and the moiety of 52 acres of land there . It also was recorded that the heirs of the same Peter ought to receive yearly £ 20 from the same land . ' 


 In 1241 Bertram de Cryoyl obtained a crown grant of the land late of Master Simon de Steiland in Everland , Kent , which had been taken into the king's hands for Master Simon's trespass and debts due to the crown , to hold by doing the service due to the lords of the fee.8 


 In 1242-3 Margery daughter of Reginald de Cornhull ( the late 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 177] ===
 
 
 OVERLAND - STOWTING , BUCKLAND 161 


 
 
 sheriff of Kent ) held 1 fee in Overland and ' Wyntring ' of the countess of Eu and she of the earl of Arundel . In 1256 Reginald de Corn hull and his brothers ( sic ) , Henry , John and Reginald , were named . In the ensuing year Reginald son and heir of Reginald de Cornhull had terms for payment of his late father's debts.10 For the family of Cornhull see Mr. Round's observations and pedigree in Geoffrey de Mandeville , 304 ff . 


 Among the memoranda relating to lands taken into the king's hands after the battle of Lewes was one recording that Bertrand de Crioll used to render £ 20 yearly out of the manor of ' Over launde ' to Thomas de Ber ... to the use of Sir Henry de Malemeins.¹¹ In 1266 the manor of Overland , late of dame Matilda de Welles , was seized by the earl of Gloucester . " 


 12 


 
 
 The record of a plea in 1278 states that Bertram de Crioll had failed to show the court that William de Leyburn ought to acquit him of the redemption of the manor of ' Everlonde , ' in accordance with the dictum of Kenilworth against Florentin de Warenne , to whom Henry III ( c . 1261 ) gave the manor , or that the said William ought to render the manor to him.13 


 
 
 In 1297 William de Leyburn , having gone over seas with the king on his service , had licence to demise for life to Peter de Gulde ford his manor of Overland , Kent.14 In 1302-3 William de Ley burn held 1 fee in Overland of the honor of the count of Eu.15 He made a settlement of his lands in Kent , Sussex and Oxford shire in 1308.16 He died in 1310 holding , jointly with Juliana his wife , of the gift of Fulk Payforer , 17 the manor of Overland of Robert archbishop of Canterbury , for 10s . yearly . Juliana , daughter of Thomas de Leyburn by Alice his wife , which Thomas was son of the deceased , was his next heir , aged 6 years.18 In 1328 Juliana , the heiress , was wife of Thomas le Blount and 2 years later of William de Clinton.19 


 
 
 In 1346 William de Clinton , now earl of Huntingdon , held 1 fee in Overland which William de Leyburn and his parceners formerly held of the honor of the count of Eu.20 He died in 1354 holding the same of his wife's inheritance.21 


 
 
 1. Red Bk . 399. 2. R. L. Claus . i . 231b . 4. Pat . R. 306 , 309 , bis . 5. Close R. 474 . 7. Excerpt . i . 333. 8. Cal . Chart . R. i . 255 . Fees , 1152. 10. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 231 , 265 . of Misc . Inq . i . 233. 13. Abbrev . Placit . 268b . 


 3. R. L. Claus . i . 325b . 6. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 309 . 9. Testa , 209 , 219 ; Bk . of 11. Cal . Pat . 311. 12. Cal . Cf. Cal . Pat . R. 1261 , p . 161 . 14. Cal . Pat . R. 307 . 15. Feud . Aids , iii . 31 . 16. Cal . Pat . R. 34 . 17. Cf. Cal . Close R. 212. 18. Cal . Inquis . v . 121-3 . 19. Cal . Fine R. iv . 81 , 210. 20. Feud . Aids , iii . 31. 21. Cal . Inquis . x . 174 . 


 
 
 LXXIV . 


 In Stowting hundred , Kent , in 1086 Ansfrid held of the bishop of Bayeux in Buckland solin . 


 
 
 There is no evidence that this holding ever belonged to the honor of Arundel . It is included here because it was held by the counts of Eu . 


 
 
 III . M 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 178] ===
 
 
 162 HONOR OF ARUNDEL 


 
 
 In 1156 Denise daughter of Stephen Harengot rendered account in Kent for 10 marks of the pleas of the chancellor and Henry de Essex.¹ In 1165 Stephen Harengot was amerced 20 marks in Kent.2 In 1180 John Harengot owed 3 marks for a recognition against Gervase de Cornhull and Reginald his son concerning the land of Etchden ( Haseton , ' in Bethersden ) , Kent , 3 for which he did not . finally account until 1187 . 


 
 
 There was a plea in 1199 between Hugh Coffin and Richard and Hugh Coffin , minors , his nephews , touching I carucate in Chislet ( Chistel ' ) , which Stephen Herengot then held . In 1212 the same Stephen held of the archbishop of Canterbury I fee in Stowting , and I fee of the land of Henry de Essex of the honor of Haughley . In 1214 he was appointed constable of Colchester castle and held office 8 months . In 1216 he was custos , as sheriff , of Essex . In 1213 he had a royal gift of 40 harts and hinds for his park in Kent.8 Two years later he had a grant of market and fair at an unnamed place in Kent.º 


 5 


 7 


 In 1217 , on the accession of Henry III , the land of Stephen Harengod in East Bridge , and elsewhere in Kent , was committed to the king's bailee ; 10 but later in that year Stephen returned to allegiance and had writs of reseisin to the sheriffs of Sussex , Kent , Essex , Norfolk and Nottingham.11 In 1218 he had licence to go . beyond seas for a month.12 


 
 
 In 1226 Stephen Harengod was appealed by Nicholas de Wauncy for the death of Felicia wife of the said Stephen and mother of the said Nicholas.13 He had a plea with John prior of the Holy Trinity , Canterbury , touching the manor of Wells , Kent.14 In 1228 and 1230 there was a plea between the same Stephen and Alice countess of Eu in respect of land in Elham and Bilsington , Kent , 15 and between John Harengod and Ralph his brother , demandants , and the same Stephen touching carucate in Twitham , Kent.16 


 
 
 In 1244 Stephen Harengod held 1 fee in Stowting of Alice countess of Eu , who held of the archbishop of Canterbury.17 He died in 1257 holding the manor of Stowting of the lord of Elham for 1 fee , and the hundred of Stowting of the king ; William his son was aged 40 years.18 18 This William was deceased in 1273 ; his heir , who was a parcener of the inheritance of William de Eyneford , was under age.19 In 1275 John de Berkeley held the hundred of Stowting by reason of custody of the heirs of William Harengod , and John de Tirkebi held the same by reason of wardship of Emma daughter of William Harengod ; Stephen Harengod had acquired free chase in Stowting by the grant of King John.20 Stephen's heir in 1293 , namely Christina wife of William de Kirkeby , had possessed this liberty in Stowting when the said William married her ; she had also view of frankpledge , gallows and other liberties . there . 21 


 
 
 William de Kirkeby of Kirby Bellers , Leics . , died in 1302 holding the manor of Stowting with the hamlet of Stanford , jointly with Christina his wife , of Sir Robert , archbishop of Canterbury , for I fee , and the hundred of Stowting of the king ; his sisters , who were heirs of his own inheritance , were not heirs of this tenement.22 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 179] ===
 
 
 STOWTING , BUCKLAND — OXROAD , MOUNT 


 163 


 Christina Heringod , relict of William de Kirkeby , held 1 fee in Stowting in 1303 of the honor of Eu and gave 2 acres there for the parsonage.23 In 1315 she gave land in Biddenham , Beds . , to the abbess and sisters Minoresses of Waterbeach.24 Apparently she alienated the manor and hundred of Stowting , for in 1311 Stephen de Burghersh died in possession of the same , leaving Matilda his daughter , aged 5 years.25 The heiress married Walter Pavely , who died in 1326 , holding this manor of his wife's inheritance of the archbishop of Canterbury ; [ ? Walter ] his son was aged 8 years.26 His relict married John de Atheles , knt.27 Afterwards she married Thomas de Auldoun , knt . , and Thomas de Aldon accordingly held Stowting in 1346,28 dying in 1361.29 Sir Walter de Pavely , K.G. , of Hilperton , Wilts . , died in June 1375 , and his son Edward a few months later.30 A younger son , Sir Walter Pavely , succeeded and died about 1380 seised of Boughton Aluph , & c . , as heir of his grand father , the Walter who died in 1326. As he had no issue , the manors went to Thomas Aldoun , son of Matilda and Thomas.³¹ 


 
 
 1. Pipe R. 2 Hen . II , 65 . 26 Hen . II , 147 . 


 2. Ibid . 11 Hen . II , 105 . 3. Ibid . 4. R. Cur . Reg . i . 267 , 442 . 5. Red Bk . 471 , 597 . 6. R. Lit. Pat . 123b . 7. Ibid . 172 . 8. R. Lit. Claus . i . 151b . 9. Ibid . 191. 10. Ibid . 303 , 306b . 11. Ibid . 328. 12. Ibid . 3556. 13. Ibid . ii . 136 . 14. Ibid . 205b . 15. Close R. 104 , 347 . 16. Ibid . 594 . 17. Bk . of Fees , 1153 . 18. Cal . Inquis . i . 105 ; Excerpt . Fin . ii . 265 . 19. Cal . Close R. 23. 20. R. Hund . i . 227b . 21. Placit . de quo war . 3586 . 22. Cal . Inquis . iv . 56. 23. Feud . Aids , iii . 28 ; Cal . Pat . R. 123. 24. Ibid . 341 , 345. 25. Cal . Inquis . v . 108. 26. Ibid . vii . I. 27. Cal . Fine R. iv . 61. 28. Feud . Aids , iii . 28. 29. Inq . p.m. 35 Edw . III , file 156. 30. Ibid . 49 Edw . III , file 251 ; 50 Edw . III , file 255. 31. Cal . Close R. 1377-81 , p . 452 . 


 
 
 LXXV - VI . 


 In the time of Henry I William de Milers held fee and Richard Costentin fee of the maritagium of the count of Eu in Kent ( as in no . 71 ) .¹ There does not appear to be anything on record to show the identity of these two tenements . It is possible that the following represented part of one of them . 


 In 1242-3 Andrew de Oxrode or Oxerothe held fee in Oxroad and ' Mintes ' ( Munte ? ) of the countess of Eu , and she of the earl of Arundel.2 


 
 
 In 1302-3 Simon atte Wealde and Richard Heryng held fee in Oxroad and Mount ( in Elham ) of the honor of the count of Eu.³ In 1346 John son of the said Simon held the same.4 


 2. Bk . of Fees , 1153 . 


 3. Feud . Aids , iii . 31 . 


 
 
 1. Red Bk . 399 . 


 
 
 ان 


 
 
 4. Ibid . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 180] ===
 
 
 THE HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 Place . 


 
 
 Introduction . 


 1. Takeley , Essex ; Somersham , Suff . 


 2. Layham , Suff .; Tuddenham , Beds . 


 3. Intwood , Norf . 


 4. Leybourne , 


 Oxon . 


 5. Arkesden , Essex 


 
 
 Kent ; 


 
 
 ( COLCHESTER ) 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 6. Harlow , Essex 


 7. Brettenham , Norf . ( Arundel , n . 62 ) 


 8. Gt . Cheshall , Essex 


 
 
 Steeple Aston , 


 
 
 9. Unidentified 


 10. Cooling , Cray St. Pauls , Kent 


 II . Paglesham , Dickley , Essex 


 
 
 12. Plumstead , Lullingstone , Kent 


 12. ( 1 ) Hoo St. Werburgh , Higham , Kent 


 13. Beckley , Vanne , & c . , Kent . 


 
 
 * 31 . Deddington , Oxon . * 31 . ( 1 ) Fritwell , Oxon . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 · 


 
 
 * 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Leyburn . 


 . Le Brun - Bayuse 


 & c . 


 Herlawe - Flittwick . 


 
 
 * 25 Bowers Gifford , Langdon , Essex 


 * 26-27 . Kingston Lisle , Sparsholt , Berks .. * 28-29 . Worth , Cricklade , Sevenhampton , 


 Wilts . 


 * 30 . Sawbridgworth , Pishobury , Herts . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Fitz - Roger . 


 Le Botiler . 


 . De la Haye . 


 Ros . 


 Ros . Sumeri . 


 14. Shelve , Kent 


 Shelves . 


 15. Layer Breton , Essex ; Harkstead , Suff .. Breton . 16. Pinchpoles in Manuden , Essex 


 17. Theydon Gernon , Childerditch , Essex 17. ( 1 ) Henley , Suff . 


 18. Knebworth , Herts .; Clapton , Cambs . 19. Unidentified 


 20. Tolleshunt , Gt . Baddow , Essex 


 21. Layer , Essex 


 22. Dunmow , Essex 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 23. Flowton , Suff . 


 24. Sawston , Cambs .; Hawkwell , Lindsell , Essex ; Glemham , Suff . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Tenant's Name . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Amblie . 


 Leyham . 


 Tyvill . 


 
 
 Rohinges . 


 Chishell . 


 
 
 Sausemares - Ledet . 


 
 
 Gernun . 


 Henley . 


 Aundevill . 


 Flambard . 


 
 
 Merk . 


 Haunley . 


 Berners . Merk - Tybetot . 


 
 
 Pirot . 


 Fitz - Gerold ( escheat ) . Fitz - Gerold ( crown ) . 


 
 
 Fitz - Gerold ( crown ) . 


 Fitz - Gerold 


 
 
 ( Mandevill ) . Chesney ( escheat ) . Foliot of Chilton 


 ( Langetot ? ) . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 181] ===
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 165 


 
 
 Place . 


 * 31 . ( 2 ) Stanlake , Oxon . * 32 . Chadlington , Oxon . 33. Lavingdon , Bucks . 34. Farthingho , Northants . 35. Ringshall , Suff .. 


 
 
 36. Milton - on - Stour , Dorset 


 37. Great Crawford , Dorset 38. Eaton Socon , Beds . 38. ( 1 ) Tempsford , Beds . 38. ( 2 ) Clifton , Beds . 38. ( 3 ) Henlow , Beds . 


 38. ( 4 ) Beeston , Beds . 


 38. ( 5 ) Kinwick Field in Sandy . 


 38. ( 6 ) Wyboston , Beds . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 · 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 42. Ashe Maners , Hants . 


 43. Roding ( 3 ) , Gt . Hallingbury , Essex 


 
 
 · 


 
 
 44. Mundon , Weeley , Essex . 


 45. Boxted , Essex . 


 
 
 46. Brettenham , Norf . 


 47. Tunstall , Postwick , Norf . 


 
 
 48. Wakerley , N'hants . 


 49. Easton , N'hants .; Beeston , Beds . 


 50. Gamlingay , Cambs . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 52. Pympe , Barming , Kent 


 53. Stalisfield , Ores , Kent 


 54. Almeshoe , Graveley , Radwell , Herts . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 38. ( 7 ) Ickwell , Beds . 38. ( 8 ) 38. ( 9 ) 


 38. ( 10 ) Chawston , Beds . 38. ( 11 ) Sutton , Beds . 39. Losfield , Berks . 


 40. Newsellsbury , Barley , Herts .; Eriswell , Merk - Roucestre 


 Chelsworth , Suff . 


 Scales . 


 41. Aspenden , Herts .; Braxted , Steeple , Sauquevill and heirs Essex . 


 general . Maners . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 · 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Tenant's Name . 


 Gay ( Langetot ? ) . Fitz - Gerold ( Curcy ? ) . 


 
 
 St. Martin . 


 St. Amand ( Leicester ) . Willavesham- 


 Rokeley . Aumale . Mohant . 


 Beauchamp of Eaton . 


 Carun . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Hospitallers . Cantelupe - Zouch . Trumpington . Braibroc . 


 
 
 Baa . 


 Tyvill . Anesti . 


 
 
 Sutton - Sandy . Caldwell priory . Hospitallers . 


 In Windsor Park ? 


 
 
 51. Hamerton , Hunts .; Chalk , E. Chart , St. Clare - Lanvalei . Kent . 


 
 
 Morel - Purcel— Hauvill . 


 Colchester abbey . 


 Horkesley - Breton . 


 Brienzun . 


 Taverham - Rye . 


 Lanvalei - Burgh . Humet - Lindon . Fitz - Reinfrid - Avenel 


 -Cornhill . 


 
 
 Barmeling . Cade - Hospitallers . 


 . Fitz - Simon ( Valoignes 


 fee ) . 


 
 
 The sections to which an asterisk has been attached relate to lands which formed no part of the fee of Eudes the sewer . 


 
 
 INTRODUCTION 


 Eudes , the youngest of the 4 sons of Hubert de Ryes the friend and favourite of the Conqueror , obtained lands in 10 counties : Norfolk , Suffolk , Essex , Northampton , Bedford , Cambridge , Huntingdon , Hertford , Berkshire , and Hampshire . In a few manors 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 182] ===
 
 
 166 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 in Norfolk he had succeeded Lisois de Moustiers , as also in one or two in Essex and one in Bedfordshire . Apparently very soon after the Domesday survey was made the greater part of the lands which Adam his brother held under Odo bishop of Bayeux fell to Eudes , but whether by death , surrender or forfeiture does not appear . Also at an uncertain date most of the 18 lordships of Roger de Otburvill or Aubervill and that of William his brother at Barley , Herts . , likewise fell into the hands of Eudes . The same applies to the lands of Sasselin in Essex . 


 
 
 He held in Normandy the honor of Préaux , ¹ and was sewer to the Conqueror and his sons , William and Henry , in turn . He attested as sewer the charter of William I to the abbey of St. Evroult issued at Winchester in 1081.2 Perhaps he is best known as the re - founder in 1096-7 of the abbey of St. John the Baptist at Colchester , the chartulary of that monastery recording gifts . made by the founder and his vassals in more than half the vills over which his lordship extended . This noble chartulary , in the possession of Earl Cowper , was printed for the Roxburghe Club and presented to the members by the owner in 1897 . 


 In the time of Eudes the sewer his honor may have been known as that of Colchester . About Christmas 1101 Henry I notified Maurice bishop of London , Hugh de Bocheland and the barons of Essex , of his gift to his sewer Eudes of the city of Colchester , the keep and castle and the farms of the city as the king's brother and father had that city . This was done at Westminster at Christmas next after the agreement with count Robert the king's brother . After the time of Eudes it is remarkable that there was no capital manor and castle on this fief , which was seldom described officially as an honor . There are consequently no references to castle guard due from the knights of the honor nor suit to be done to any baronial court . For nearly a century after the death of Eudes we find references to ' honor Eudonis dapiferi ' and no other style ever took its place . 


 
 
 By charter , which Mr. Round dates as not later than 1104,4 Henry I confirmed the foundation by Eudes and his wife Rohaise of the church of St. John , the Lord's precursor , in Colchester , and granted to the monks there lands , rents ( and tithes ) which Eudes and others had given , namely the manor of Weeley , Essex , and that of Pitsea , except the fee of Ranulf de Mundon and land of Alwin sochman ; a marsh formerly belonging to Lilly Church , near Higham , Kent , and then belonging to Pitsea - possibly the very pasture for 200 sheep named in the Domesday survey as lying in Essex but belonging to Higham , Kent ; 5 in Colchester 2 carucates and other possessions , a fair for 4 days , the land of Ralph Broc , the church of Thorncroft , Surrey , with 1 hide , tithe of wool and cheese of Ashe , Hants . , and two - thirds of all manors on the north side of Thames , except in Eaton Socon and Newsells half the tithe only , the whole tithe of Roding ( Abbess ) and tithe of Eudes ' pannage , colts and mares and mills ; in each of those manors a boor of 2 acres , except in the three manors around Colchester ( namely Weeley , Greenstead and Brightlingsea ? ) , 14 acres of land belonging 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 183] ===
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 167 


 
 
 to St. Helen's church , and the church of St. Mary ' of Westchepinge called the Newchurch of London . Others , mainly his men , gave : 


 
 
 Ralph le Boteler hide in ( West ) Wickham , Kent . Hamelin in Colchester 4 lodgings , etc. 


 Robert de Caron 10s . yearly from the mills of Anschitill de Ros , the tithe of Hoo St. Werburgh , Tempsford , Beds . , and half the tithe of Plumstead , Kent . 


 Walcer 10s . yearly . 


 
 
 Fulk the sewer the tithe of Roding ( Abbess ) . 


 William son of Constantine two - thirds of the tithe of Layer ( Breton ) , Essex ( n . 15 ) . 


 Pirot the tithe of Glemham , Suff . 


 
 
 Ralph de Noion the tithe of Thorpe ( dioc . of London ) . Humphrey son of Humphrey half the tithe of Bowley ( ? ) , Kent , and tithe of a mill . 


 
 
 Serlo de Matuen the tithe of Fimborough , Suff . Ralph de Dunmawe his tithe 6 ( in Dunmow ) . 


 
 
 The charter of Eudes and the confirmation of Henry I issued in 1119 enumerate other gifts apparently made since 1104 , namely of the gift of Eudes the manor of Brightlingsea ( not named in Henry's confirmation ) , the manor of Mundon , the manor of Halling bury ( not mentioned in Henry's or any subsequent confirmation ) , the fee of Thurstan Wischard , two - thirds of the tithe of ( Great ) Barton and Sandford ( St. Martin ) , Oxon . , Sandy , Beds . , Gamlingay , Cambs . , Hamerton , Hunts . , Easton , Northants . , Hallingbury , Takeley and Witham , Essex , Ereswell , Suff . , East Stanway and Lexden , Essex ; in Walden , Essex , tithe of mills and wool ; in Sawbridgeworth , Herts . , and Great Waltham , Essex , a third part of the tithe ; in Greenstead , Essex , the whole tithe ; the church of St. Stephen , Walbrook , the stone - built house of Eudes by the Newchurch in London ; and all the issues of the chapel in the castle of Colchester and of all the chapels in his manors on the north side of Thames . ' Also new gifts of his men , namely of Roger de Vilers hide in Chiche belonging to Weeley , and of Hamon brother of the said Roger two - thirds of the tithe of Walkern , Herts . , and the tithe of the mill ; half the tithe of Chalk , Kent , of the gift of Hamon de St. Clare , of William Peverel I hide in Pitsea , of Ralph de Amblie two - thirds of the tithe of Elmsett , Suff . , of William de Curtun 30 acres of land in Weeley , and of Athelais the wife of Ranulf de La Hai with Hugh her son when he became a monk at St. John's 80 acres of land held of William de Bohun . The gifts which follow that of tithe of Greenstead were not confirmed by Henry's charter of 1119. Subsequently other gifts , too numerous to mention here , were added to the endowment of the monastery . 


 8 


 Eudes died at his castle of Préaux early in 1120 and was buried at his monastery of Colchester on 28 February in that year.9 After his death his honor escheated to Henry I , who made provision for his widow Rohaise , who was daughter of Richard Fitz - Gilbert , with whom Eudes had acquired the Surrey manor of Thorncroft as her maritagium . The partial dismemberment of the honor 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 184] ===
 
 
 168 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 quickly followed . A number of manors , with Newsells as the caput , and including Gamlingay , were given to Eustace count of Boulogne and subsequently descended with that honor . The manor of Braxted in Essex , with others in that county and Aspenden in Hertfordshire , had been held by Richard de Sauqueville . These were severed from the honor of Eudes and erected into an honor long known as the honor of Richard de Sauqueville , 10 although held from a date prior to 1130 by heirs general . The manors of Chalk in Kent , Hamerton in Huntingdonshire , Wakerley in North amptonshire , and others had been held by the family of St. Clare as tenants of Eudes the sewer ; these with lands of other fees were also erected into an honor , known after they had descended to William de Lanvalei I as the barony of Lanvalei . The Bedford shire manors of Eaton Socon and Sandy with its members were similarly severed . In the time of Henry I and Stephen they were held by the St. Clares of the crown at a fee farm rent of £ 40 per annum . On the accession of Henry II they were granted to Hugh de Beauchamp , who held them , as did his successors , by barony . Several estates in Kent and some elsewhere were subsequently held immediately of the crown , mostly by knight's service , but in one or two instances as a royal serjeanty . The manor of Almeshoe , with lands in Graveley , Radwell and elsewhere in Hertfordshire , were annexed to the honor of Valoignes . Some other instances of disintegration may have escaped notice . 


 11 


 In 1130 we obtain several references to this honor . In Essex 5s . of danegeld on the demesne of Eudes the sewer was remitted ; in Kent 278. was similarly remitted in respect of the danegeld for 1129 ; 12 the remission in Bedfordshire will be noticed at n . 38 ; Hamon de St. Clare accounted for the farm of the city of Colchester at £ 40 and of the aid of the city for 1130 and the 2 past years , of which 8s . 10d . in 1129 and 6s . in 1130 were remitted in respect of the king's demesne ploughs of the land of Eudes the sewer.13 References to Great Hallingbury , Sawbridgeworth , and other manors late of Eudes will be found hereafter . It is noteworthy that remission of danegeld was made to Hamon de St. Clare of 125 . in Essex , 35s . in Hertfordshire , 6s . in Kent , 6s . in Northamptonshire , 37s . in Norfolk , 4s . in Suffolk , 38s . 5d . in Bedfordshire in the demesne of the land of which Hamon de St. Clare had custody , i.e. of part of the later barony of Eaton Socon . 


 Apparently part of the honor was retained by the crown until the accession of Henry II . He gave it forthwith to his chamberlain Warin Fitz - Gerold , who held it a few years only , and upon his death in 1159 ( ? ) it descended , in accordance no doubt with the terms of Henry's feoffment , to Warin's brother , Henry Fitz - Gerold the chamberlain . 


 
 
 These two brothers already enjoyed considerable estates apart from those held of this honor , but they were not merged into it , as shewn by the carta returned by Henry Fitz - Gerold in 1166.14 Three years later he was charged to the aid for marrying the king's daughter with £ 35 5s . 8d . on 53 fees less a 14th part of old feoffment , and £ 4 18s . 8d . on 7 % fees of new feoffment which had belonged to 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 185] ===
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 169 


 
 
 the honor of Eudes the sewer.15 Henry never made any payment towards the liquidation of this charge down to the time of his death in 1174-5 . His son Warin paid 10 marks in 1178 , then 20 marks , 9 marks and 4 marks in the succeeding years , all on fees of old feoffment , then 23 marks on fees of new feoffment in the last named year ( 1180 ) , and 3 marks in 1181 on fees of old feoffment . No further payments were made until after 1189 . 


 16 


 In the meantime Henry Fitz - Gerold had acquired some 5 or 6 knights ' fees in marriage with Matilda de Chesney , whose parentage is discussed at n . 31. In the year 1185 his eldest son Warin was aged 18 and Henry the younger son was aged 12 years . In or very soon after 1193 Warin married Alice , then relict of Henry de Cornhill and sister of William de Curcy IV , on whose death about 1195 she became heir to the Curcy inheritance and to the pourparty of the Meschin inheritance which had fallen to her grandmother , Avice daughter and coheir of William Meschin . Henry the younger son married Ermentrude Talbot , as appears by his fine in 1203 for marrying Ermentrude late the wife of William de Grendon , with her land.17 The identity of this lady is discussed below . She and her husband Henry Fitz - Gerold granted to a clerk 31 virgates in Wold ( Inferiori Waldia ' ) and I virgate in Burcote ( Field or Wood Burcote , near Towcester , Northants . ) . 18 From Henry descended the line of L'Isle , which inherited the entire honor of Eudes the sewer ( as it was given by Henry II to Warin Fitz Gerold ) on the failure of the line of the earls of Albemarle in 1293 and after protracted delay on the part of the crown and litigation with the Courtenay representative.19 


 
 
 In 1211 Warin Fitz - Gerold had acquittance by writ of 53 fees less a 14th part of old feoffment and of 7 % fees of new feoffment of Henry II , of the fee of Eudes the sewer , in respect of the scutage of Wales ; 20 the figures corresponding exactly with those returned in 1166 by his father . 


 
 
 Warin Fitz - Gerold died after 14 Nov. , 1216 , leaving an only daughter Margery , or Margaret , who carried in marriage to her husband Baldwin de Rivers or Reviers the inheritances of her father and grandfather . Some account of the subsequent descent of these estates to Isabel countess of Albemarle and Devon and lady of the Isle of Wight , the last of her line , who died without surviving issue in 1293 , will be found in The Complete Peerage ( edit . Gibbs ) , vol . iv . s.v. Devon . 


 
 
 In 1225 William de Ferles arraigned a plea against Margaret de Rivers ( de Ripariis ) , daughter of Warin Fitz - Gerold , respecting 21 hides in Stratton , Wilts.21 In 1230 Margery de Rivers gave 200 marks to be quit of sending her knights with the king to Brittany and for having her scutage of the knights ' fees which she held of the king in chief and not to be forced to marry so long as she de sired to live single.22 The collectors of the aid levied in 1235-6 accounted for £ 81 2s . 1d . on 60 fees and fee , less th part , of the fee of Margery de Rivers.23 


 This lady is usually named Margery in official documents , but Matthew Paris always describes her as Margaret , ' cognomento de 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 186] ===
 
 
 170 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 Ripariis - that is , de Reviers , countess of the Isle of Wight - and records her death as having occurred on 2 October 1252. 24 On the day following her death the king granted to queen Eleanor his con sort the wardship of the lands late of Margery de Rivers , countess of Devon , during the minority of Baldwin son and heir of Baldwin de L'Isle , sometime earl of Devon , for the issues thereof to be delivered into her wardrobe for her expenses.25 


 
 
 We now return to Henry Fitz - Gerold , younger brother of Warin . In 1204 he had a grant of a weekly market at Gainsborough , Lincs . , 26 and in the same year the king sent him 70 hounds with 2 huntsmen their horses and grooms to find in necessary things.27 In 1205 the king granted to earl William Marshal custody of the land and heir of [ Henry ] Fitz - Gerold which had been seised into the king's hands , saving to the king the custody of the land and . heir of Ermentrude his wife.2 28 In the same year Robert de Tolebu gave a palfrey to have seisin of his land in the manor of Gains borough , Lincs . , as he had when the manor was in the hands of Henry Fitz - Gerold and after of the king , whereof Adam Tisun wrongfully disseised him after the king had delivered the manor to him.29 In the following year William de Aunay sought a recognition touching fee in Cerney Wike ( Cernacwic ' ) , Gloucs . , and fee in Mundford , Norf . , against Henry Fitz - Gerold , who put himself on the record of the court of Wallingford.30 See that fee . 


 
 
 In 1212 Warin Fitz - Gerold , brother of Henry , held Down Ampney , Gloucs . , late of Ralph Tesson.31 He held Stoke - Curcy , Somerset , as heir to the honor of Curcy.32 


 
 
 In 1215 Henry had a grant of market and fair at his manor of Campton , Beds.33 Withdrawing from service to John he returned to allegiance on the accession of Henry III , and on 14 Jan. 1217 the sheriffs of Gloucester , Bedford , Buckingham and Berkshire were directed to give to Ermentrude , wife of Henry , seisin of her lands.3 Shortly afterwards Henry Fitz - Gerold had seisin of his land of Gainsborough , as he had it when he withdrew from the service of king John.35 He was one of the executors of the will of earl 


 34 


 
 
 William Marshal.36 In 1218 he was commissioned to make an extent of the honor of Brittany in Lincolnshire and beyond Hum ber , 37 and in the same year had a grant of market and fair at his manor of Wing , Bucks . , Kemerton , Gloucs . , and Balking , Berks.38 In 1227 Ermentrude Talbot had a royal gift of two tree trunks in Salcey forest.39 Two years later Henry Fitz - Gerold and Ermen trude his wife impleaded Nicholas de Fecamp of the last presenta tion to the church of Kemerton , Gloucs .; 40 Ermentrude Talbot had letters patent to her knights for an aid to pay her debts , and John Talbot for his maintenance in the king's service . In 1234 Ermentrude Talbot had respite while in parts beyond the sea in respect of suits of counties and the like from her land of Wing.42 Two years earlier ( 1232 ) the justices itinerant were directed that , notwithstanding that William Talbot of Gainsborough who for a long time stood in compliance with king John was a Norman and subsequently tarried in parts beyond seas , the imparlance that he had in their eyre against William earl of Ferrers respecting the 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 187] ===
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 171 


 
 
 custody of the land late of Robert Fitz - Walkelin , which belonged to him because Robert held his land of the same William Talbot in socage and because William is as he says next heir of the said Robert , should not remain untried.43 


 
 
 46 


 In 1230 a suit by the Templars against John Talbot for a tene ment in Gainsborough was respited pending John's return from over seas in the king's service ; the said John and Gerard his brother were serving that year in Brittany.44 In 1229 Henry Fitz - Gerold had a grant of a weekly market at his manor of Campton , Beds . , in a place called Shifford.45 In 1235 Ermentrude mother of John Talbot had letters of protection while she remained beyond seas.4 In 1243 John Talbot had a grant of a fair at Gainsborough manor and free warren there.47 It may be surmised that Ermentrude married first a Talbot , probably Quintin Talbot , living 1200 , when he confirmed to St. Nicholas of Angers the church of Wing and land pertaining thereto in Wing and Crafton with acquittance of secular service against his heirs and the earl of Warenne.48 Quintin probably died within the year , for his widow married William de Grendon and again became a widow before Michaelmas 1203 , when her marriage was acquired by Henry Fitz - Gerold for his own benefit . By her Talbot husband she had issue John and Gerard , afterwards of Wing , Bucks . , Gainsborough , Lincs . , and Snaith , Yorks . Gerard surrendered Gainsborough to the king in 1257 , reserving a life estate , and the king gave it to his brother , William de Valence.49 


 
 
 Henry Fitz - Gerold was living in May 1231 , but died soon after . It is uncertain if Henry's son Warin was son of Ermentrude Talbot . Her estates , which Henry had held by the courtesy of England , all reverted to the Talbots at his decease . In 1234 Warin Fitz - Gerold , son of Henry , had terms of payment of the fine of 20 marks which Agnes his wife had made for having the custody of her daughter , 50 presumably by a former husband . In 1237 Henry de Chequers ( de Scaccario ) and Pernel his wife were impleading Warin Fitz Gerold and Agnes his wife respecting customs and services in an unnamed place in Bucks.51 ( See Giffard , n . 5. ) In 1242 Warin and Agnes had a grant of market and fair at the manor of Mursley , Bucks . , which was of the inheritance of the said Agnes . 52 


 In 1242-3 Warin Fitz - Gerold held 1 fee in Iffley , Oxon . , in chief of the king.53 He had held it in 1235-6 as of Richard son of Nigel . 54 In Berkshire he held in 1242-3 of the abbot of Abingdon I fee in Fawler and of the fee of Margery de Rivers 1 fee in King ston - Lisle of the Chamberlaincy . 55 See below , nos . 25-6 . In Wiltshire Robert de Columbers held fee in Nettleton ( ? ) of Warin Fitz - Gerold and he of the earl of Salisbury.56 In 1243 he had a grant of market and fair at Mursley , Bucks.57 


 4 


 Warin was engaged all his life in active service on the king's behalf . In 1253 he had a grant of 40 marks a year from the Ex chequer for his maintenance , and in the same year served in Gascony.58 In the following year he had a grant of market and fair at his manor of Balking , Berks.59 In August 1257 he was intending to take part in the Welsh expedition , but died about that 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 188] ===
 
 
 172 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 time . According to the evidence of the Quo Warranto rolls he left issue an only daughter Alice , who married Robert de L'Isle ( Insula ) . The identity of this Robert is somewhat difficult to trace owing to the fact that there was a contemporary Robert , tenant of the honor of Dover in Lincolnshire , who succeeded his father Otuel in 1250,6⁰ and held lands in Northumberland , and also a Robert de L'Isle of Stoke Lyne or L'Isle , Oxon . ( Giffard , n . 25 ) . Our Robert was descended from Robert de L'Isle , who married Beatrice de Cormeilles , one of the daughters and coheirs of Ralph the cham berlain of the earl of Richmond ; from this Robert descended Robert de L'Isle , who in 1236-38 held land in Great Wilbraham in socage of the honor of Brittany , and land of the bishop of Ely in Oakington and Westwick , Cambs.61 The former Robert was described in 1206 in a plea for the church of Wimpole , Cambs . , as grandson of Ralph the sewer of Conan count of Brittany.62 He had a plea in 1199 with Robert Le Vavassour respecting land in Westwick , Cambs .; he married in 1213 Rohaise , sister and even tually coheir of John de Wahull , and relict of Robert de Tateshale ; she had an inheritance in Cambridgeshire 63 and died in 1221. 64 


 
 
 In 1212 Robert de L'Isle held of the bishop of Ely I fee in Rampton and Cottenham and fee in Westwick , Cambs . , with 2 fees in Nedging , Suff . , of the bishop of Ely.65 


 A plea in 1223 indicates that the advowson of the church of Wimpole held by Robert de L'Isle in 1223 had descended from Berenger de Borray to Gerard his son and so apparently by marriage to Robert ; Alan de Bassingeburn , who claimed the advowson , was adjudged not to be the heir of Berenger and was cast in his suit ; he was son of Alexander de Bassingeburn . 66 It is noteworthy that Ralph the sewer held of the bishop of Ely in 1166 2 fees with his increment in Cambridgeshire . 67 This Ralph may be identified as Ralph the sewer of the earl of Richmond named above . 


 
 
 In 1264 the castles of Marlborough and Ludgershall were com mitted to Robert de L'Isle , and for a fine of 200 marks the wardship of the land and heirs of William de Aubigny of Cainhoe.68 In the ensuing year the land of Robert de L'Isle in Kemerton , Gloucs . , was seized by the earl of Gloucester.69 In 1269 restitution was made by licence by Robert de L'Isle to Gerard de L'Isle of his lands which had been given to Robert by reason of trespasses charged against Gerard in the late disturbances.70 In 1271 Gerard and Alice his wife had land in Northamptonshire.71 Robert de L'Isle was constable and sheriff of Oxford for a year and a quarter until 1271.72 This may have been Robert de L'Isle of the Lin colnshire family , tenants of the honor of Peverel of Dover . 


 In 1276 Alice de L'Isle held land in Coveney , Cambs .; Robert de L'Isle had free warren in Rampton , Cambs . ; 73 Gerard de L'Isle had certain liberties and warren in Kingston Lisle , Berks . 74 In 1275 Robert held lands in Nedging and Fimborough , Suff . , of the bishop of Ely.75 In 1279 he held land in Oakington , Cambs . , of John de Burdeleis , who held of Robert de Brus as of the honor of Huntingdon , and 5 hides in Rampton of the same John , who 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 189] ===
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 173 


 
 
 The same 


 held of Gilbert Pecche and he of the bishop of Ely.76 Robert also held of the honor of Brittany in Great Wilbraham , Cambs . In Arrington , Cambs . , lands of the honor of Richmond were held of him.77 In Iffley , Oxon . , lands were held of the same Robert in Forest Hill . 78 


 
 
 Robert de L'Isle was living in June 1283 , but died before the end of 1284 , when Warin his son and heir had terms for payment of the crown debt of his father.79 Warin held land in Fimborough of the bishop of Ely in 1286 , and in the following year claimed view of frankpledge in Campton and Shifford , and cited charters made by Henry III to Warin Fitz - Gerold , his predecessor.80 Of these grants that of free warren in Campton and Shifford was cited by Warin's son and heir Robert in 1330 as having descended from the first grantee to Warin's son and heir Henry , and from Henry to Warin his son and heir , and from Warin to Robert his son and heir , and from Robert to Alice his daughter and heir , and from Alice to Warin her son and heir , and from that Warin to Robert his son and heir living in 1330. 81 The pedigree recited is confused and inaccurate , and seems to begin with the Warin who died in 1159 . 


 Alice de L'Isle ( relict of Robert ) was living in 1290 , when she acknowledged a debt as due to Warin de L'Isle . 82 Possibly she was elder sister and coheir of John de Mucegros , who died in 1266 holding land in Arrington , Cambs . 83 Going to Gascony as yeoman of Thomas le Latimer of Wardon in 1294 , Warin obtained a grant of the issues of the manors of Heyford Warin and Newenham , Oxon . , and Pishobury , Herts . , taken into the king's hands after the death of Isabel des Forz , countess of Albemarle , which Warin asserted were his inheritance as Isabel's next heir.84 He had a brother Baldwin , 85 a knight in 1306. Warin died in 1296 seised of the manors of Nedging and Fimborough , Suff . , held re spectively of the bishop of Ely and Robert de Mucegros ; the manor of Rampton , Cambs . , held of Geoffrey de Burdeleys ; those of Cottenham , Coveney with Manea , Cambs . , held of the bishop of Ely ; and that of Campton , held as of the escheat of the late countess of Albemarle of her inheritance ; Robert his son was aged 6 years ; 86 Alice his widow survived . Certain lands of the said late countess were in dispute between Hugh son and heir of Hugh de Curtenay and Robert son and heir of Warin de L'Isle , and were retained in the king's hands . 87 These included Heyford Warin , and Campton with Shifford , which was extended at £ 12 13s . 6d.88 In 1301 the marriage of the said Robert was granted to queen Margaret to the use of Margaret daughter of Walter de Beau champ . 89 In 1306 he claimed the manors of North Creake , Cambs . , and Hillington , Norf . , as kinsman and heir of Margery mother of Robert de Ufford and Sarah relict of Roger Fitz - Osbert.90 See Warenne , n . 42. Alice relict of Warin afterwards married Sir Robert Fitz - Walter ; in 1310 she had a third part of the manor of Nedging , Suff . , in dower , 91 in which year Robert de L'Isle obtained seisin of his father's lands , having proved his age . 92 In July of the same year he obtained possession of the manors of Heyford Warin and Newenham , Oxon . , Pysobury , Herts . , Harewood 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 190] ===
 
 
 174 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 and Kirkby Overblow , Yorks . , which had been in the king's hands owing to the minority of Hugh de Curtenay and subsequently that of the said Robert until that date . 93 At this time Warin de L'Isle ( of Kingston Lisle and Fawler , Berks . ) was constable of Windsor.94 ( See Abingdon , n . 22. ) 


 For the later story of the line of L'Isle , barons Lisle of Rouge ment , see The Complete Peerage ( ed . G.E.C. ) , V , 112 ff . The pedigree of L'Isle given by Baker in the History of Northamptonshire ( i . 619 ) in very incorrect . 


 
 
 1. Round , Cal . of Docs . France , 27 , 158. 2. Orderic , Hist . Eccles . iii . 29 . 3. Chartul . of Colchester , 27. 4. Engl . Hist . Rev. xvi . 723. 5. Dom . Bk . i . 9 . 6. Chartul . 12-13 . 7. Ibid . 2-3 , 5-6 . 8. Ibid . 2-3 . 9. Chartul . of Colchester , xviii . 10. Red Bk . 365 , 501 . 11. Pipe R. 31 Hen . I , 60 . 12. Ibid . 66. 13. Ibid . 138. 14. Red . Bk . 354 ff . 15. Pipe R. 15 Hen . II , 125 . 16. R. de Dominabus , 31. 17. Pipe R. 5 Jno . m . 1od . 18. Cat . of Anct . D. ii , c . 2135. 19. Cf. Abbrev . Placit . 260b , 311 ; Round , The Ancestor , i . 244-5 . 20. Pipe R. 13 John , Essex and Herts . m . 6d . 21. Pat . R. 588. 22. Ibid . 14 Hen . III , Oxon . 23. Bk . of Fees , 486 , 


 490 et pass . 24. Chron . Majora , v . 323. 25. Cal . Pat . R. 151. 26. Pipe 


 Dugdale , Baronage , i . 411b . 44 . 29. R. de Fin . 328 . 33. Ibid . 222 . 37. Ibid . 360-1 . 


 R. 6 Jno . Lincs .; 28. R. Lit. Claus . i . 31. Bk . of Fees 51 . 35. Ibid . 308b . 39. Ibid . ii . 1966 . 43. Ibid . 76 . 46. Cal . Pat . R. 105 . 47. Ibid . 368 . 49. Cal . Chart . R. ii , 1 ; Lincs . Feet of F. ii . 162 . 462 . 51. Close R. 539 . 52. Cal . Pat . R. 826 , 836 . R. 8 . 


 27. R. Liberate , 76 . 30. Ibid . 360 , 376 . 34. Ibid . 285 , 295b . 38. Ibid . 368-70 . 42. Close R. 495 . 


 32. Ibid . 83 . 36. Ibid . 601b . 40. Pat . R. 297 . 44. Ibid . 316 , 363 . 


 41. Ibid . 262 . 45. Ibid . 152 ; Cal . Chart . R. i . 91 . 48. R. Cur . Regis , iii . 128 . 50. Excerpt . Fin . i . 266 , 351. 53. Bk . of Fees , 


 54. Ibid . 455. 55. Ibid . 824 , 860. 56. Testa , 1436. 57. Close 


 Cal . Pat . R. 210 , 232 , 369 . 


 59. Ibid . 307 . 


 58 . Fin . ii . 91 . 


 61. Farrer , Feud . Cambs . 121–2 , 187 , 239 . 


 147 , 186 , 251 . 


 63. R. de Fin . 31 , 487 ; Excerpt . Fin . i . 3 , 73 73. 65. Red Bk . 523 , 525 . 66. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 1578 . Bk . 365 . 68. Cal . Pat . R. 350 , 390 , 395 . 69. Cal . Misc . Inq . i . 211 . 70. Cal . Pat . R. 356. 71. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 538. 72. Cal . Pat . R. 536 . 73. R. Hund . i . 49b , 51b ; ii . 153 . 74. Ibid . i . 9-10 , 15. 75. Ibid . ii . 191 . 


 76. Ibid . 449b , 451. 77. Ibid . 491 , 556. 78. Ibid . 7136 , 831. 79. Cal . Fine R. i . 209. 80. Placit . de quo war . 7 , 734b . 81. Ibid . 30. 82. Cal . Close R. 143 . 83. Cal . Inquis . i . 199 ; Excerpt . Fin . ii . 439. 84. Ibid . 357 . 85. Cal . Pat . R. 1292 , p . 518. 86. Cal . Inquis . iii . 331. 87. Cal . Close R. 38 , 49. 88. Cal . Pat . R. 526 , 582. 89. Ibid . 601. 90. Cal . Close R. 395 . 91. Ibid . 1310 , p . 327. 92. Ibid . 202. 93. Ibid . 273-4 , 284. 94. Ibid . 


 389 . 


 
 
 60. Excerpt . 


 62. Ibid . 64. Ibid . 67. Red 


 
 
 I. 


 In Takeley , Essex , Eudes the sewer held 1 hide and 15 acres of land in 1086 . 


 
 
 In Somersham , Suff . , Roger de Oburville held 1 carucate , and in Elmsett 6 carucates . Possibly his other lands in Bosmere hundred were included in the following fee . See also n . 23 . 


 Before 1120 Ralph de Amblie , with the consent of Eudes the sewer and in the presence of king Henry , gave to the monastery of Colchester two - thirds of the tithe of his demesne and plenary tithe of his mill¹ in Elmsett . This gift was confirmed by Henry I at Rouen in 1119.2 Ralph's successor appears to have been Richard de Amblie , who was pardoned in 1156 his share of the common 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 191] ===
 
 
 TAKELEY , SOMERSHAM 175 


 
 
 6 


 assize of Suffolk , ³ in Essex 5s . 8d . of the donum of that county and 8s . of danegeld . In 1158 he was pardoned 7s . 4d . for a murder fine in either Hinckford or Lexden hundred , and 6s . of the donum of Essex ; 5 also 6s . for a murder fine in Hertfordshire . In the ensuing year he was pardoned 10s . for similar fines in Essex and 8s . 10d . in Hertfordshire , " and 1 mark of the donum of the borough of Northampton.8 In 1161 he was pardoned 2s . 6d . of a murder fine in the hundred of Hertford , ⁹ and shortly after that date was succeeded by Geoffrey de Amblie , who in 1166 held 2 fees of Henry Fitz - Gerold the chamberlain , as of the fee late of Eudes the sewer.10 In 1177 Geoffrey was amerced 10 marks for forest trespass in Essex and Hertfordshire.11 He gave to the monks of Colchester , with the consent of his wife Constance and son William , 4 acres of his demesne of Elmsett in exchange for tithe of the mill there which Ralph de Amblie his grandfather had given.12 He also acquitted the monks of the rent of land in Takeley , Essex , which they had held of his aunt Rohaise , wife of Alexander de Limesei , namely for the health of his soul and that of his wife Constance.13 At a later date William son of the said Geoffrey confirmed to the monks the said land and other parcels in Takeley given by two members of the Hauvill family.14 


 
 
 William son of Adeliz de Tachelei , Muriel his wife and Ellis their son , gave to St. John's , Colchester , land in Takeley by charter attested by Robert bishop of London ( 1141-1151 ) and Ailward the archdeacon.15 Ellis their son made a similar gift by charter attested by Hugh prior of Colne.16 William son of Ellis confirmed lands in Takeley of his deceased father's fee.17 


 
 
 In 1195 or 1197 William de Takele was demanding against the abbot of Colchester by assize of mort d'ancestor land in Takeley , but the abbot defended on the ground that William's grandfather had given that land to St. John's , Colchester , and he produced the charter and the confirmation of Ellis father of the said William , and William's own charter confirming his father's and grandfather's gifts ; he prayed for a view . Afterwards the demandant withdrew.18 


 The land of Alexander de Limesi and Rohaise his wife was granted as follows . In 1200 the king confirmed to William de Hautevill Takeley with the appurtenances , which was formerly of Ralph de Hautevill his father and William his grandfather , as by the grant and confirmation of Alexander de Lymesy and Rohaise his wife , for 40s . to be rendered to them yearly.¹ 


 19 


 Walter son of Humphrey and Agnes his wife , Robert de Lamare and Alice his wife , Geoffrey de Amblie and Constance his wife , gave to the nuns of Clerkenwell 30 solidates of rent in Langford , Essex.20 These 3 ladies appear to have been coheirs of Langford . With the consent of Constance his wife and William his son , Geoffrey de Amblie gave to Idonea the prioress and the nuns of Wykes , Essex , land in Cold Norton , and Geoffrey also gave them land in Elmsett in exchange for a rent in the mill of Norton.2 In 1190 Geoffrey de Amblie gave 60 marks for the right of Beighton , Langley and Tubeston . ' 22 


 21 


 C 


 In 1198 William de Takele , who appears to have been a 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 192] ===
 
 
 176 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 4 


 descendant of the line of Amblie , demanded against Geoffrey de Amblie some part of a knight's fee in Yardley in Essex or Hert fordshire , 23 and in 1199 a fee in Somersham , 24 and in the same year the said Geoffrey was adjudged to have disseised the prior of St. Mary of Thetford of land in Offton , Suff.25 In the pre ceding year Philip de Beauchamp had released to Geoffrey , the tenant , for 14 marks , 28 solidates of land in Little Offton ( Offige tun ) .26 In 1203-4 Geoffrey de Amblie quitclaimed to William de Takele for 20 marks a carucate in Somersham and the homage and service of William de Hauvill of the land which he held in Takeley of the said Geoffrey's fee.27 In 1205 , by fine of 30 marks , Geoffrey de Ambly recovered possession of land in Norfolk and Suffolk of which he had been disseised by the king's precept.28 In 1213 he was a commissioner to inquire about losses lately suffered by the clergy in the diocese of Norwich.29 


 William de Amblie succeeded to his father's fee and in 1217 , returning to allegiance , recovered possession of lands in Norfolk and Suffolk.30 In 1225 he was appointed a justice of gaol delivery in those counties , 31 and frequently acted as a special justice at Ipswich during the period 1229-32.32 He was a commissioner of array in the same counties in 1230,33 and was defendant in a suit brought by Margaret de Rivers in 1232 respecting customs & c . in Elmsett and Somersham , 34 in which year he was one of the keepers of escheats in Norfolk and Suffolk and a collector of the fortieth in the latter county.35 He was a collector in Essex of the aid granted in 1235,36 a warden of Yarmouth fair , and was superseded as a coroner in Suffolk in 1238,37 in which year he was a collector of thirtieth in that county.38 


 
 
 1 


 4 


 4 


 Geoffrey de Amblie succeeded William and in 1236 ( ? ) held 3 fees in Elmsett and Somersham of Margaret de Rivers.39 Elsewhere he is said to hold fee in Somersham and fee in Old Newton of the said Margaret , 40 and fee in Elmsett of the lady of Ongar.41 In 1245 he had a royal gift of 3 does from the forest of Essex to celebrate the feast when he led home his wife , daughter of Robert de Muce gros.42 In that year he was found to hold fee in Beyton , Norfolk , of earl Roger Bigod , which William de Amblie his brother held of him.43 The date of his death is uncertain ; he left issue a daughter Eleanor , who was the wife of John Luvel , son of William Luvel , in 1257 , when they had a grant of free warren in Elmsett , Norton and Somersham.44 Before 1263 this lady had become the wife of John de Baa ( Bathonia ) , who had custody of the manor of Langford , Essex , in 1265 , which manor was held of the heirs of Sir Geoffrey de Amblie.45 It was presented in 1275 that Sir John de Baa held 2 fees in Elmsett of the countess of Wight , 4 and that he had warren , gallows , view of frankpledge and the like there.47 In 1278 certain liberties in Great or South Benfleet , Essex , were allowed to John de Bathonia in right of Eleanor de Amblie his late wife , of whom he had issue Joan , wife of John de Bohun ; and the said John de Bohun declared that one Geoffrey ( sic ) de Amblie ancestor of the said Joan , whose heir she was , held at the time of the conquest the manor of Elmsett and 


 46 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 193] ===
 
 
 LAYHAM , TUDDENHAM 177 


 
 
 certain other lands to which the liberties had pertained from heir to heir.48 


 John de Bathonia died in 1291 seised of the manor of Elmsett which he held for life by the courtesy of England of the countess of Wight for 31 fees , and the manor of Cold Norton , Essex , similarly held by courtesy in right of his late wife Eleanor , daughter and heir of Sir Geoffrey de Amblie , who held the manor of Sir Robert son of Walter de Wodeham for 11 fee ; Joan wife of Sir John de Bohun , aged 30 ( or 28 ) , being daughter and heir of the said Eleanor , was his next heir.49 Four years earlier , namely in 1287 , Roger Loveday died holding of Sir John de Baa ( Bathonia ) lands in Somersham , Offton and Elmsett . 50 John de Bohun was deceased before 24 Janu ary , 1292.51 Joan his relict was lady of Somersham and Elmsett in 1316,52 and died in that year holding the manor of Elmsett of Sir Robert de L'Isle for 3 fees , and the manor of Cold Norton of Richard Fitz - Walter for 1 fee ; John her son was aged 30 years . 


 53 


 
 
 The next step in the descent of this fee is uncertain , but it was in the possession of William de Bohun , youngest son of Humphrey de Bohun , earl of Hereford , in 1328 , when he had a grant of special grace , as the king's kinsman , of free warren in Elmsett , Offton , Somersham and divers other places . 54 He was created earl of North ampton in 1337 , and died in 1360 , seised inter alia of the manor of Elmsett . 55 In 1368 the earl of Hereford held 3 fees in Elmsett , Somersham and Ringshall , Suff . , of Sir Robert de L'Isle . 56 


 
 
 Bk . 354 . 


 1. Chartul . of Colchester ( Roxburghe Club ) , 283 . R. 2 Hen . II , 10. 4. Ibid . 17-18 . 5. Ibid . 4 Hen . II , 133 . 7. Ibid . 5 Hen . II , 5 , 7. 8. Ibid . 20. 9. Ibid . 7 Hen . II , 68 . 11. Pipe R. 23 Hen . II , 15I . 12. Chartul . of Colchester , 283 . 13. Ibid . 338. For Limesei's charter see ibid . 337. 14. Ibid . 339- 15. Chartul . of Colchester , 340. 16. Ibid . 341. 17. Ibid . 342 . 18. R. Cur . Regis , i . 354 ; ii . 121. 19. R. Chart . 68. 20. Mon. Angl . iv . 85. 21. Cat . Anct . D. ii . A. 3518-19 . 22. Pipe R. 2 Ric . m . 9. 23. R. Cur . Regis , i . 193. 24. Abbrev . Placit . 8 , 9b ; R. Cur . Regis , i . 398. 25. Ibid . 430 ; ii . 197. 26. Feet . of F. ( Pipe R. Soc . xxiv ) , 15. 27. Essex Feet of F. 47 . 29. R. Lit. Claus . i . 164b - 5 . 30. Ibid . 340. 31. Ibid . ii . 77 . 33. Close R. 401. 34. Ibid . 127 . 


 28 . 


 R. de Fin . 300 . 32. Pat . R. 36. Ibid . 190 . 40. Ibid . 914 . 


 35. Ibid . 129 , 159 . 


 39. Bk . of Fees , 608 . 


 37. Ibid . 58. 38. Cal . Pat . R. 223 . 41. Ibid . 918. 42. Close R. 343. 43. Cal . Misc . Inq . i . 6. 44. Cal . Chart . R. i . 463. 45. Cal . Misc . Ing . i . 208. 46. R. Hund . ii . 151 . 47. Ibid . 1996 . 49. Cal . Inquis . ii . 491 . 51. Cal . Fine R. i . 302 . 54. Cal . Chart . R. iv . 84 . 


 48. Abbrev . Placit . 193b . Cf. 50. Ibid . 397. Cf. 52. Feud . Aids , v . 35 , 44 . 55. Cal . Inquis . x . 526 . 


 Placit . de quo war . 2356 . Cal . Close , 1298 , p . 178 . 53. Cal . Inquis . vi . 35 . 56. Cal . Close R. 497 . 


 
 
 3. Pipe 6. Ibid . 135 . 10. Red 


 
 
 2. Ibid . 6 . 


 
 
 II . 


 In Layham , Suff . , Eudes the sewer had 4 carucates , and in Tuddenham 3 carucates . In Little Barford , Beds . , Eudes the sewer held 5 hides of the abbot of Ramsey and Osbern held of Eudes.¹ 


 1 


 It is suggested that this Osbern was the tenant of that name in the Domesday Survey , who held of Eudes the sewer 17 acres of land in Raydon , Suff . , and was possibly father of Walcher of Lay ham . Osbert son of Walcher held in 1166 of Henry Fitz - Gerold the chamberlain 3 fees , as of the fee of Eudes the sewer.2 Osbern 


 
 
 III . N 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 194] ===
 
 
 178 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 3 


 son of Walcher gave to the monks of St. John's , Colchester , land in Layham quit , except of the service of Hamon de St. Clare ; witnesses , William de St. Clare , Ralph de Amblie , and others . In 1163 Henry II confirmed to the monks of Sibton land and heath in Tuddenham given by Gilbert de Tudeham , which his lord Osbert son of Walcher had confirmed . Peter son of Osbert de Leyham , by charter attested by his brother William de Leyham , Geoffrey de Amblie , and others , confirmed the above gift of Osbert his father to the monks of Colchester.5 There was a contemporary family of Leyham , tenants of the fee of Peverel of Dover in Bowthorpe , Norfolk . 6 


 
 
 In the time of Robert abbot of Ramsey ( 1180-1200 or 1202–1207 ) an agreement was made between the said abbot and Hugh de Beauchamp touching 5 hides of land in ( Little ) Barford , Beds . , and the homage of Peter de Leyham . " Peter recovered a carucate in Lawford , Essex , in 1202.8 The next of this line upon record is Matthew de Leyham , knt . , who presented to the church of Little Barford in 1226,9 was a special justice at Ipswich in 1232,10 and in 1235 had a suit against Master Nicholas de Leyham and others touching customs and services in Layham.1 He married before 1242 Nesta de Cokefeld , relict of Thomas de Burgh and of John de Beauchamp.12 In 1242 Hubert de Rulli made fine in £ 100 for himself , Richard his son , and 8 others for robbery of the said Nesta.13 


 In 1236 Matthew de Leyham held of Margery de Rivers as of the honor of Ongar 1 fee in Layham , and John de Coteham held of the said Matthew 2 fees in Tuddenham which the said Matthew similarly held.¹4 Matthew also held 5 hides in Little Barford , Beds . , of the abbot of Ramsey , in socage for 1 mark yearly.15 Elsewhere he was said to hold of Margery de Rivers 31 fees in Layham and Tuddenham.16 In 1243 he obtained from Ranulf abbot of Ramsey an acknowledgment of his right in 5 hides in Barford , and in return undertook to find one knight in the king's service at the charges of the knights of the abbot's barony when the abbot was required to find 4 knights in the king's service upon his summons.17 On 8 April , 1242 , he had been one of 4 knights elected in the abbot's court to serve over seas in Poitou and Gascony , and , having refused to serve , had been impleaded by the abbot with the result stated above.18 In the summer of 1244 he was again one of the 4 knights similarly chosen to serve in Scotland , but sent in his stead Sir Hubert de Royli , 19 to whom he and his wife Nesta had recently granted the manor of Kersey , Suff.20 He was living in May 1246.21 Nesta de Cokefeld died without issue , her heirs being Bartholomew de Creke , Ralph de Berners and William de Beaumont . 22 Philippa relict of Matthew de Leyham was living as late as 1270.23 


 In 1257 Peter de Leyham was in the Welsh expedition with Baldwin de L'Isle.24 In 1264 Thomas de Hemmegrave died holding Tuddenham with the advowson of the church of Peter de Leyham for 2 fees.25 In 1270 Henry de Merke died seised of Lawford , Essex , which Peter de Leyham held of him for 1 fee.26 1 fee.26 This Peter , who was living in 1271 , was the last male representative of this line and was deceased in 1273 when Joan de Leyham , Margery 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 195] ===
 
 
 LEYHAM , TUDDENHAM 179 


 
 
 and Olive her sisters , Geoffrey de La Mare and Ida his wife recovered by replevin their land in Layham , Lawford and Barford , which had been taken into the king's hands for their default in the Bench against Margery late wife of Peter de Leyham.27 Whether these 4 ladies were daughters or sisters of Peter de Leyham does not appear . It was presented in 1275 that Joan de Leyham held 1 fee in Layham of the countess of Wight and had warren and assize of bread & c . there ; 28 Beatrice de Hemmegrave , late lady of Tuddenham , was then deceased.29 It was presented by the hundred of Tendring in 1274 that the heirs of Leyham had view of frankpledge in Lawford de antiquitate.30 Of the heirs of Peter de Leyham land was held in 1287,31 and a parcel in Layham was similarly held in 1290 by John de Leyham of Bowthorpe , in Norfolk , who held ' Le Overbouhalle ' in Layham of the earl Marshal for I fee.32 Possibly ' Le Nether Bouhalle ' was the residence of the family described in this section . 


 Apparently the bulk of the inheritance descended to Olive de Leyham , who in 1303 held her manor in Lawford of the heirs of Andrew de Merk for fee , 33 and the 5 hides in Barford of the abbot of Ramsey.34 


 
 
 The fee in Layham appears to have been alienated to Hugh le Despenser the elder ( see Chester , n . 14 ) , who assigned to Hugh le Despenser the younger inter alia the manors of Layham and Kersey . These were temporarily seized in 1310 , but immediately restored to the elder Hugh , 35 who was lord of Layham in 1316.36 Upon the attainder and forfeiture by Hugh le Despenser , earl of Winchester , of his estates , Edward III granted inter alia the manor of Layham , worth £ 35 9s . , and the manor of Kersey , worth £ 27 6s . , to Edmund earl of Kent.37 At his death in 1330 the earl held the manor of Layham of the abbot of St. Edmund's ; the manor of Tuddenham was held of the manor of Layham by Edmund de Hungrave for I fee.38 In 1331 the manor of Layham was assigned to the dower of Margaret late wife of earl Edmund.39 In the preceding year the king had granted the manor to Robert de Ufford for life.40 Isabel de la Dale , then wife of Walter de Cokefeld , had long sued for the manor as her right , first against Hugh le Despenser prior to his forfeiture , and afterwards in the king's court ; she obtained in 1331 in recompense the custody of the manor of Kenton , Devon . " She died in 1336 in possession of that manor , John de la Dale , knt . , her son , being aged 32 years.42 As this family succeeded also to Lawford it may be conjectured that Isabel de la Dale was daughter and heir of Olive de Leyham . 


 41 


 
 
 In 1368 the prince of Wales held 3 fees in Layham and Tud denham of Sir Robert de L'Isle.43 


 
 
 1. V. C. H. Beds . i . 229. 2. Red Bk . 354. 3. Chartul . 258. 4. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 96. 5. Chartul . 258. 6. Pipe R. 23 Hen . II , 133 ; R. de Dominabus , 48 ; R. de Oblat . 166. 7. Ramsey Chartul . i . 89. 8. Essex Feet of F. 30. 9. Reg . Welles , iii . 13 . 10. Pat . R. 524. 11. Close R. 328. 12. Mon. Anglic . vi . 493 ; Feet of F. , Suff . 25 Hen . III ; Essex Feet of F. 146. 13. Excerpt . Fin . i . 377 , 381 ; Close R. 448. 14. Bk . of Fees , 918 . 15. Ibid . 869. 16. Ibid . 608. 17. Ramsey Chartul . ii . 360 . 18. Ibid . iii . 50. 19. Ibid . 51. For the Ruilli family see Chartul . of St. John's , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 196] ===
 
 
 180 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 Colchester . 20. Cal . Misc . Ing . i . 6. 21. Cat . Anct . D. v . A. 11008. 22. Abbrev . Cf. Close R. 1248 , 106 . 


 Placit . 237 . Pat . R. 602 . Cf. Essex Feet of F. 277 . 


 23. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 511. 24. Cal . 25. Cal . Inquis . i . 183 . 26. Ibid . 237. 27. Cal . Close R. 44 . 28. R. Hund . ii . 151 , 1996 . 29. Ibid . 196 . 


 30. Ibid . i . 141 , 1636. 31. Cal . Inquis . ii . 380. 32. Ibid . 470. 33. Feud . Aids , ii . 130. 34. Ibid . i . 23. 35. Cal . Close R. 198 ; Cal . Misc . Ing . ii . 20 . 36. Feud . Aids , v . 43. Cf. Cat . of Anct . D. i . A. 526 ; iv . A. 7163 . 37. Cal . Chart . R. iv . 2. 38. Cal . Inquis . vii . 225 , 230. 39. Cal . Close R. 190 , 208. 40. Cal . Fine . R. iv . 189. 41. Ibid . 278. 42. Cal . Inquis . viii . 11 . 43. Cal . Close R. 497 . 


 
 
 III . 


 In Norfolk in 1086 Ralph held of Eudes the sewer in Roudham I carucate and 10 acres , in Intwood 15 carucates and in Gowthorpe ( Torp ' ) 60 acres . 


 From this Ralph may have descended Ralph de Tyvill , who held 2 fees in 1166 of Henry Fitz - Gerold the chamberlain , as of the fee late of Eudes the sewer.¹ Possibly of the same family was Richard de Tyvill , who with Cecily his mother quitclaimed by fine in 1196 to prior W and the convent of Ipswich land in Pannington in Wherstead , Suff . , for which the grantees gave to the said Cecily a provision for life and to her and Richard her son certain parcels of land in Pannington , one of which had been given to the said Cecily by Gerard her father in marriage , except an acre which Cecily had given to the convent for the health of the soul of Robert her son.2 In 1199 Ralph de Tyvill was a visor in a Bedfordshire plea , and in that year he was demanding against Reginald de Argentein a tenement in Ramsey , Hunts.3 In 1202 Gilbert le Esquier held of Ralph de Tyvill 1 virgate in Ickwell ( ' Gigewell ' ) , Beds . In 1206 Ralph was demanding against Roger de Hofee in Topcroft , Norf . , 5 but two years later quitclaimed the tenement to Roger for 15 marks . In 1213 Ralph de Tyvill obtained from Joscelin de Stivecle , the tenant , an acknowledgment of his right in certain parcels of hide in Gravenhurst and Ion , Beds . , and released his claim in other parcels . There seems to be no definite connexion between the Tyvills of Norfolk and those of Bedfordshire . Cf. Feet of Fines , Beds . , pp . 327 , 335 , 339 . 


 8 


 In 1218 Ralph de Tyvill recovered possession of the manor of Intwood ( ' Incewrth ' ) of which he had been disseised for a debt to Jews . In the ensuing year Richard de Tyvill was a party to a plea of land in Beeston , Beds.⁹ In 1220 Matilda , late wife of Ralph de Tyvill the younger , was claiming dower in the manor of Intwood against Roger de St. Denis and Sarra his wife , who vouched to warranty Isaac the Jew of Norwich , 10 who defended on the ground that neither Ralph the father nor Ralph the son could endow her , because prior to her marriage to the younger Ralph his father Ralph had pledged the manor to him ; Ralph the father replied that Isaac was wrongfully warrantor , because he ( Ralph ) had made fine with king John for £ 120 , whereby he was in seisin of the manor until disseised without judgment by the late justices in eyre ; he therefore obtained judgment.11 


 In 1226 Ralph de Tyvill claimed against Matilda de Tyvill the 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 197] ===
 
 
 INTWOOD 181 


 
 
 church of Intwood , 12 and in the following year his suit against Hugh Graundin for I carucate in Aspley was put in respite because Hugh was serving in Gascony.13 In 1227 a convert from Judaism recovered a tenement in Intwood against Ralph de Tyvill , ¹ª and in that year Thomas bishop of Norwich confirmed to St. John's , Colchester , 4s . for tithes of the demesne of Henry de Gessinges in the vill of Goudestorp ( in Intwood ) .15 In 1230 Richard de Tyvill was serving over seas , 16 and in the same year Ralph de Tyvill demanded against Hugh Graundin carucate in Aspley , Shitlington and Pegsdon to which he had entry by Clarice de Berevill , wife of Richard son of Euerwin , Ralph's maternal uncle , which Clarice held only in dower ; although Hugh alleged that he had entry by the charter of Henry de Glanvill he had no charter or warranty to show and was nonsuited.17 In 1234 Ralph recovered a tenement in Aspley against Henry de Trafford and Matilda his wife , 18 and in that year judgment was given in a suit between the said Ralph and Hugh de Tyvill touching a tenement in Gravenhurst.19 


 
 
 In 1236 ( ? ) Ralph de Tyvill held 2 fees in Intwood , Gowthorpe and Bodham of Margery de Rivers.20 In 1241-2 Hugh de Tyvill was one of the knights of the abbot of Ramsey serving in Wales with his serjeant.21 He was living in 1248. In 1257 Ralph de Tyvill of Bedford had respite from knighthood , 22 and in that year he or another Ralph de Tyvill served in Wales as one of the knights of the abbot of Ramsey.23 


 In or about 1266 Ralph de Tyvill granted the manor of Graven hurst with lands and services there and in Shitlington , Pegsdon and Meppershall for 200 marks to Ramsey abbey.24 This land was said to be of the fee of Robert Brien.25 On 14 November , 1265 , Ralph had sold for 74 marks to abbot Hugh and the convent of Ramsey tenements in Gravenhurst , Ion , Shitlington and Pegsdon , one of which Elen relict of Hugh de Tyvill , uncle of Ralph , held in dower.26 These tenements had been held by Ralph and his prede cessors of the abbey.27 In 1279 a fine of the advowson of Intwood was levied between Nicholas de Castello and John de Tyvill.28 In 1302 John de Tyvill held 1 fee in Intwood of the heirs of Aumarle , 29 and died in 1313.30 In 1316 Hugh de Tyvill , who was then in the bishop's gaol , was joint lord of Intwood.31 


 I 


 Subsequently this fee passed to the family of Hedersete . In 1338 John de Hedersete , knt . , had a grant of free warren here , 32 and in 1346 he held 1 fee here.33 In 1368 William de Hederescyt held 2 fees in Intwood , Gowthorpe and Bodham ( Roudham ) of Sir Robert de L'Isle.34 


 
 
 3. R. Cur . 


 6. Abbrev . 


 1. Red Bk . 354 . 2. Feet of F. ( Pipe R. Soc . xvii ) , 129 . Regis , i . 396 , 401. 4. Abbrev . Placit . 36. 5. R. de Fin . 339 . Placit . 58b . 7. Feet of F. , Beds . 84. 8. R. Lit. Claus . i . 355. 9. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 61. Cf. Cat . of Anct . D. vi . C. 3935 . 10. Bracton , n . 1376 . 11. Ibid . n . 1445 . 12. Pat . R. 79 . 13. Close R. 9. 14. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 1825. 15. Chartul . 116. 16. Pat . R. 360. 17. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 385. 18. Ibid . n . 829. 19. Close R. 154 ; Excerpt . Fin . i , 257 . 20. Bk . of Fees , 608 , 911. 21. Ramsey Chartul . iii . 50. 22. Cal . Pat . R. 523. 23. Ramsey Chartul . iii . 52. 24. Ibid . ii . 337. 25. Ibid . 281 ; iii . 212. 26. Cat . of Anct . D. i . A. 104 , 128 , 130 ; ii . B. 27. Ibid . 


 3869 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 198] ===
 
 
 182 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 iii . B. 3872 . Fin . R. ii . 180 . Aids , iii . 532 . 


 
 
 28. Norf . Feet of F. 29. Feud . Aids , iii . 443 . 31. Ibid . 476. 32. Cal . Chart . R. iv . 455 . 34. Cal . Close R. 497 . 


 IV . 


 
 
 30. Cal . 33. Feud . 


 
 
 In Leybourne , Kent , Adam held of the bishop of Bayeux 2 solins ; in Langley , Adam son of Hubert held 1 solin , in Otring den solin , in Bowley by Maidstone 2 solins , and in Ridley ( ‘ Red lege ' ) I solin . 


 
 
 In Steeple Aston , Oxon . , Humphrey held of Adam son of Hubert , who held of the bishop of Bayeux , 5 hides , and in Little Tew 3 hides . See Curcy , n . 5 . 


 
 
 In 1166 Philip de Leiburn held 7 fees of Henry Fitz - Gerold the chamberlain , as of the fees late of Eudes the sewer.¹ In 1181 a demise of land in Leyton , Essex , held of earl Aubrey and the king , was made before dame Amica and Robert de Leiburn her son.2 Philip's successor was the said Robert de Leyburn , to whom in 1197 John de Tresgoz , Henry and Thomas his brothers quitclaimed their right in carucate in Meres Court ( ' Mere , ' near Rainham , Kent ) in exchange for Robert's land in Bowley by Maidstone ( ' Bokelee ' ) , to hold for fee , except Bugkinden ' and the wood.3 This Robert was succeeded by Roger his son . In 1201 Robert de Sudton , being sued for a certain marsh in Essex , proffered the charter of Robert de Leyburn granting the same to him , and he vouched to warranty Robert's son , Roger de Leyburn , who was then in the wardship of Stephen de Turneham . In 1203 it was stated in evi dence in a plea of land in Sutton , Kent , that Robert de Leyburn had impleaded Warin son of Fulcher , father of Warin , then a minor , touching carucate there and that the said Warin had vouched to warranty Amabel , daughter of William son of Fulcher , being then in his custody ; on the other side Warin son of Warin stated that Robert de Leiburn had granted to Warin his father that land and he proffered his charter and if necessary would vouch to warranty the son of Robert de Leyburn , then under age and in the king's wardship.5 In 1207 Margaret de Leyburn of Kent proffered £ 100 and 2 palfreys to marry whom she would . “ It does not appear who she was , but it may be surmised that she was the relict of Robert de Leyburn and an heiress in her own right . 


 In a confirmation to the abbey of Boxley made in 1204 there was reference to part of the marsh of ' Scerpenesse ' late of Robert de Leyburn , lying near the Medway . ' Roger de Leyburn was of age in 1215 , when he was taken prisoner in Rochester castle . In the ensuing year he obtained his liberty by fine of 250 marks and recovered possession of his lands in Shropshire and Kent.⁹ He had been married by his guardian , Stephen de Turneham , to Eleanor , third of the said Stephen's 5 daughters and coheirs ( Arundel , n . 18 ) , and in 1214 obtained possession of Great Berwick , Salop , of which he had been disseised owing to the said Stephen's death.10 See the account of Turneham's predecessors , lords of Berwick , and of his successors , the Leyburns , in Eyton's Hist . of Salop , x . 213 ff . The record of a plea brought in 1220 by Edelina 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 199] ===
 
 
 LEYBOURNE , STEEPLE ASTON 183 


 
 
 de Broc , relict of Stephen de Turneham , touching rent in Erdington , Salop , shows that Roger de Leyburn's wife was then deceased.11 


 In 1222 Roger successfully defended a plea brought by Henry de Tresgoz and Thomas his brother that he had not kept the fine of 1197 touching a carucate in Meres court ( Arundel , n . 2 ) . The pleadings show that a certain Amiria had held that land by inherit ance and had pledged it to a Jew.12 In 1223 Roger had land in ' Luiton , ' Essex ; 13 and in 1224 land in Febbinges ' in that county was held of him.14 About this time he held Bures , Essex , of the king by serjeanty of scalding the king's swine , Robert de Sutton being his tenant.15 In 1226 the connexion between this family and the barons of Kirkby in Kendal is illustrated by a fine made by William de Lancaster on behalf of Roger de Leyburn with certain Jews of London and Kent touching Roger's debt to them.16 In the same year William Bigot and Margaret his wife were impleading Roger in the hundred court of Milton , Kent , touching a carucate of land in Siloam ( Syleham ) .17 Two years later he acknowledged that the marsh of Richerness in Bures , Essex , was the right of Margery wife of William Bigod , to hold for fee , and he released to William and Margery 2 carucates and the advowson of the church of Bures , and I carucate in Siloam ( Syleham ) , Kent.18 


 4 


 In 1228 the king granted to Roger de Leyburn the scutage of 2 fees in Oxfordshire which Roger held of Margaret de Reviers , and of 5 fees in Kent which he similarly held of the same Margaret.¹ In the ensuing year he had terms set for payment of £ 73 10S . due to a Jew of Hereford.20 In 1231 he was impleading the tenants of several parcels of land in ' Cristmelden , ' Kent , 21 a vill somewhere near Langley . In 1236 ( ? ) he held of Margaret de Rivers 7 fees in Leybourn , Bewper , Langley , Ridley Charlton and Cranbrook , Kent , and in Steeple Aston , Oxon.22 


 
 
 4 


 Another return supplies the names of the tenants holding in demesne of Roger de Leyburn , who himself held fee in Leybourne and fee in Langley and Bowley by Maidstone . They were William de Oteringeden holding 1 fee in Otringden , Thomas de Bressinges fee in Langley ( and Brushing ) , James de Cherleton 1 fee in Charlton by Sutton Valence , Ralph Ruffin fee and fee in Leybourne , and William de Clovill 1 fee in Shrambroke ( or Srawingbroc ) by Cliffe , now known as Mortimers.23 


 6 


 I 


 
 
 In 1241 Roger de Leyburn was sued in an Essex plea as guardian of John de Leyburn and Florence his wife , who was possibly daughter of Roger de Akyny.24 Roger died about 1242-3 , leaving Agnes his relict , formerly wife of Henry de Miners , 25 and , according to Eyton , was succeeded before 1244 at Berwick by John de Leyburn , who died soon after that date . But , as will be seen , Eyton was wrong in making Roger de Leyburn II son and heir of this John . Clearly he was his brother , but whether elder or younger than John is not quite certain . 


 
 
 In 1237 he was one of the collectors of the thirtieth in Kent.26 In 1240 he gave land in Headcorn with the advowson of the church to the king for the hospital of Ospring.27 In 1242 he was summoned to Winchester in connexion with the Gascon expedition.28 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 200] ===
 
 
 184 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 Roger de Leyburn II was in the king's special service , obtaining in 1252 the king's peace for the death of Arnulf de Munteny , then recently killed by accident at a round table ; 29 and in the ensuing year a grant of 40 marks yearly while in the king's service.30 This year he went to Gascony ; 31 in 1254 he was pardoned 300 marks of a prest made by the king to Roger his father 32 and obtained a grant of lands of escheat at Rainham , Kent.31 In 1257 the king confirmed a grant of Roger de Leyburn I to John le Moyne of land of his fee in Cliffe , Kent ; and a grant of Roger son of the said Roger de Leyburn made after his said father's death to the said John le Moyne of land in ' Shanbrook , ' now Mortimers , in Cliffe , Kent.32 


 
 
 Much has been written about Roger II by Dugdale and Eyton . His attitude during the Montfort crises is illustrated by various chronicles preserved in Annales Monastici . The numerous grants from the king to Roger le Leyburn , William his son , and Roger son of Roger de Leyburn during the period of 1265-67 are set forth in the Calendar of the Charter Rolls , 33 as is also the grant of Robert de Crevequer of the manor of Leeds , Kent , with half his knight's fees.34 Otho son of Edward of Westminster gave to Sir Roger de Leyburn , knt . , a messuage in Westminster between the courts of the King of England and King of Germany , extending from the Thames to the highway leading from Westminster to Charing ; witnesses Richard abbot of Westminster , Sir John de Kyrkeby , Sir Roger de Lancastre , Sir Thomas de Musgrave.35 A charter of the manors of Ashford and Packmanstone to Sir Roger de Leyburn , dated 21 July , 1271 , will be found in Cat . of Ancient Deeds , v . A. 11766 . In 1265 William de Leyburn had a grant for life of the manor of Preston , late of Simon de Sandwic , which should have reverted to Juliana wife of the said William as heir of the said Simon.36 


 Ι 


 Upon the death of Roger de Leyburn II in 1271 William his son and heir had livery of his father's lands , except those duly specified as having been held jointly by Roger and Eleanor , countess of Winchester , his wife , who survived.37 The Hundred Rolls for Kent contain many references to the holdings of William de Ley burn he held an escheat in Rainham at ' Chelesherste ' by the gift of Henry III and I fee in Meres Court and La Gare ( now Gore ) ; 38 at Leybourn he had warren and free chase ; 39 Harrietsham was the demesne of Henry II , who gave it to Hugh de Cressy , and in 1275 Roger Loveday held it by demise of William de Leyburn : 40 the valuable manor of Elham , late of Alice countess of Eu and an escheat of the Normans , which came to the hands of Henry III , was by him given to Edward his son , who gave it to Roger de Leyburn , and in 1275 William de Leyburn held it.41 In 1284 Robert de Romeley held 1 fee in Steeple Aston , Oxon . , and I fee in Little Tew ( which the abbot of Oseney held of him ) of William de Leyburn and he of the countess of Albemarle ; 42 the same William held Leybourn of the countess of Devon for fee.43 In 1287 Ralph de Oteringden held the manor of Otringden and hamlet of Saynden of Sir William de Leyburn for 1 fee , doing suit to the court of Ley bourn.44 In 1293 William de Leyburn claimed inter alia free warren in Elmstone , Barton in Wy , Packmanstone , Leybourn , Langley and 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 201] ===
 
 
 LEYBOURNE , STEEPLE ASTON 185 


 
 
 La Gore by charter of Henry III made to Roger de Leyburn ; but he failed in his claim in the first , third , and last of these places.45 In 1303 Lawrence de Oteryngdenne held 1 fee in Bicknor of William de Leyburn.46 


 I 


 
 
 Thomas de Leyburn , son of William , died in 1307 in his father's lifetime , seised jointly with Alice his wife of the manor and castle of Leybourn , which he held for fee as of the honor of Albemarle ; Juliana his daughter was aged 3 years.47 William de Leyburn , the father , died in 1310 holding jointly with Juliana his wife the manor of Langley for fee of the king as of the honor of Albemarle ; the manor of La Gore jointly as above of the king for fee ; the manor of Dane in Thanet of the inheritance of his said wife of the abbey of St. Augustine , Canterbury , for 1 fee ; the manor of Meres . Court of the gift of Thomas de Leyburn for life of the king by the service of being chief larderer at the king's coronation ; Juliana , daughter of Thomas de Leyburn his son , aged 6 , was his next heir.48 In 1316 Juliana de Leyburn was lady of Langley , Bicknor , Knowlton , Elham , Ashford and Harrietsham ; and the countess of Warwick of Leybourn.49 Before 1319 Juliana became the wife of John de Hastinges , who died in 1325 holding in her right the manor of Leybourn of John de L'Isle for fee ; Lawrence his son was aged 6 years.50 In 1327 died Juliana , relict of William de Leyburn , holding the manor of Langley of the heirs of Robert de L'Isle for 


 1 


 fee , besides other lands of other fees ; Juliana , daughter of Thomas de Leyburn her son , aged 24 , and then the wife of Thomas le Blount , was her next heir . 51 She subsequently became the wife of William de Clinton , earl of Huntingdon , who held in 1346 fee in Langley of the countess of Albemarle ( sic ) .52 The earl at his death in 1354 held jointly with Juliana his wife in her right the manors of Ley bourn , Bewper , par . Frittenden , Langley , Preston by Wingham , Deane Court , Westgate , Ripple , Ham , Ash , Ashford , Barton - by Boughton , Packmanstone , Coldbridge , Harrietsham , Eastling , Goodneston , Gore , par . Upchurch , Meres Court , Wateringbury , .. Slayhill , Walderslade , Eynsford , Bicknor , Bromsmythe , Elmstone and Overland , par . Ash.53 In the same year died Augustine Waleys holding the manor of Ridley ( Redlegh ) for fee and 100s . rent to Leybourn castle ; 54 formerly it had been held of the earl of the Isle ( of Wight ) for 1 fee . In 1368 it was returned that Juliana countess of Huntingdon had lately held the tenements which were ( in 1166 ) of Philip de Leyburn for 7 fees , then kept in the king's hands , but nominally held of Sir Robert de L'Isle . 55 These tenements were also described as sometime held by John de Hastinges , namely fee in Leybourn , fee late Ralph Ruffyn's , fee in Langley and Bowley by Maidstone , fee in Brushing , I fee in Charlton by Sutton Valence and fee in Mortimers alias Shambroke by Cliffe.56 In Oxford shire Richard de Adderbury held of John de Hastinges I fee in Steeple Aston and the abbot of Oseney similarly held 1 fee in Little Tew ; in both fees Hastinges held of Robert de L'Isle.57 


 
 
 1. Red Bk . 354. 2. Cat . of Anct . D. iv . A. 6461. 3. Feet of F. ( Pipe R. Soc . xx ) , 103. 4. Abbrev . Placit . 33 . 5. Ibid . 39. 6. R. de Fin . 398 , 499-500 ; R. Lit. Pat . 75b . 


 7. R. Chart . 130 . 


 8. R. Lit. Claus . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 202] ===
 
 
 186 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 i . 2416 . 9. Ibid . 287b .; R. Lit. Pat . 195 . 11. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 1410 . 12. Ibid . n . 169 . i . 573 . 14. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 929. 15. Red Bk . 507 . Claus . ii . 1296. 17. Ibid . 156b . 18. Essex Feet of F. 83 . 85 . 20. Ibid . 152 . 21. Ibid . 596. 22. Bk . of Fees , 617 .; Abbrev . Placit . 160. 23. Testa . 209b . Cf. Abbrev . Placit . 160. 24. Essex Feet 26. Ibid . 554 . 27. Cal . Chart . R. i . 253 ; Cal . Pat . 29. Cal . Pat . R. 154. 30. Ibid . 215. 31. Ibid . 32. Ibid . i . 457 . 33. Loc . cit . ii . 55-57 , 61 . For a grant in 1270 by 


 of F. 137. 25. Testa . 71 . 


 R. 121. 28. Close R. 456 . 232 , 271 ; Cal . Chart . R. i . 445 . 34. Ibid . 113. 35. Cat . of Anct . D. ii . A. 2508 . Sir Roger to his beloved knight , Sir John de Kirkeby , see ibid . vi . C. 5320 . 36. Cal . Pat . R. 456. 37. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 552-3 . 38. R. Hund . i . 215b . 39. Ibid . 220 . 40. Ibid . 223. 41. Ibid . 230. 42. Feud . Aids , iv . 155 . 43. Ibid . iii . 2. 44. Cal . Inquis . ii . 394. 45. Placit . de quo war . 366b . 46. Feud . Aids , iii . 40. 47. Ibid . iv . 274 . 48. Ibid . v . 121–3 . 49. Feud . Aids , iii . pass . 50. Ibid . vi . 386. 51. Ibid . vii . 50 . 53. Cal . Inquis . x , 174 . 56. Ibid . 57. Ibid . 496 . 


 52. Feud . Aids , 55. Cal . Close R. 


 54. Ibid . 129 , 131 . 


 iii . 40 . 495 . 


 
 
 10. R. de Fin . 542 . 13. R. Lit. Claus . 16. R. Lit. 19. Close R. 


 
 
 V. 


 Eudes the sewer held in demesne in 1086 in Arkesden , Essex , 2 hides less 15 acres . 


 Roger de Aubervill ( Otburvilla ' ) held by exchange in Arkesden 2 hides . 


 
 
 14 


 These two tenements descended in two distinct families . In 1166 Jordan [ le Brun ? ] and William de Arkesdene ( n . 19 ) held 3 fees less part of a fee , of Henry Fitz - Gerold , as of the fees late of Eudes the sewer.¹ Possibly Jordan married Alice de Hakewell , sister and heir of Robert Fitz - Ernold , and may have been father of Graland le Brun , whose relict Muriel had dower in Arkesden in 1223 , when Jordan le Brun , grandson of Alice de Hakewell , appears to have held part of this fee.2 In 1236 Jordan le Brun held 1 fee here of Margery de Rivers.3 In 1246 Philip le Brun demanded against John le Brun that he should acquit him of the service which Jordan le Brun and others demanded of him for his tenement in Hakewell.4 John le Brun succeeded and died before January 1263 seised of lands in Arkesden held of Baldwin de L'Isle , earl of Devon , and , leaving no issue , was succeeded by Thomas his brother.5 


 Subsequently the tenement formerly held by Le Brun was in the possession of the family of Bayhouse , and in 1303 Robert de Bayhouse , then sheriff of Huntingdonshire , held fee in Arkesden of the earl of Albemarle . " In 1346 John de Bayhouse held the same tenement . ” In 1368 Robert de Baiouse held 1 fee here of Sir Robert de L'Isle , and in 1373 Robert , son of Robert de Baiocis , knt . , granted to Sir William de Burton , knt . , and Eleanor his wife and the heirs of their bodies the manor of Woodhall in Arkesden.º 


 
 
 Returning to the tenement held by William de Arkesdene , this appears to have descended to heirs general . Eudes de Arkes den about 1185 gave the church of Arkesden to Walden priory.10 In 1236 Ranulf son of Walter de Hai and John Pigace held each fee in Arkesden of Margery de Rivers.¹¹ In Trinity term 1242 Agnes prioress of Campsey Ash obtained warranty of land in Arkesden from Ranulf de Hai and Sarra his wife , John Pigaz and 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 203] ===
 
 
 ARKESDEN - HARLOW 187 


 
 
 ļ 


 
 
 Rohaise his wife , for which Sarra and Rohaise and their heirs were received into the benefits of the convent.12 The subsequent descent of these tenements is difficult to trace . 


 
 
 2 


 In 1236 ( ? ) Joan de London held fee in Arkesden of Margery de Rivers¹³ and the abbot of Walden held similarly fee there.¹ª Adam son of Thomas de London granted to Hamon Peverel a messuage in Arkesden 15 and a tenant with his tenement in the same place.16 It was presented in 1274 from the hundred of Uttlesford that a part of Great Chishill and Arkesden , which were held of the king's chamberlainship , used to come to the sheriff's turn from the time when Falkes de Breauté held Bedford castle against the king until the queen had the wardship of the heir of Baldwin de L'Isle the chamberlain , since when they came not.17 It was also presented in 1285 that Arkesden was a member of the serjeanty of the Cham berlainship of the Exchequer ; 18 that the abbot of Walden held 60 acres of arable which had belonged to Atheland de Graveney , who held them of that serjeanty , and that he held the fee of Eynesworth which Ralph de Assartis held of the same serjeanty . 


 19 


 In 1303 John Peverel , the abbot of Walden , and the prioress of Campsey Ash held fee in Arkesden of the fee late of the earl of Albemarle.20 In 1310 John Peverel of Hanningfeld had licence to settle his manor of Arkesden on himself and Joan his wife and John his son and his issue.21 


 
 
 4 


 In 1368 the abbot of Walden held fee in Arkesden , William de la Zouche fee there , late of Hamond Peverel , and the prioress . of Campsey Ash fee there , of Sir Robert de L'Isle.22 In 1401-2 Thomas de Burton , knt . , held 1 fee in Arkesden , called Wodehall , of the honor late of Robert de L'Isle , the abbot held similarly fee there , Ludwig Bledeslowe held similarly fee there , late of William la Zouche , and the prioress of Campsey Ash held fee there.23 


 
 
 3. Bk . of Fees , 477 , 608 . 


 1. Red Bk . 354. 2. Essex Feet of F. 64 . 4. Essex Feet of F. 168. 5. Cal . Inquis , i . 162. 6. Feud . Aids , ii . 149 . 7. Ibid . 178 . 8. Cal . Close R. 496. 9. Cat . of Anct . D. i . C. 101 . 10. Walden chartul . , Harl . 3697 , f . 132d . 11. Bk . of Fees , 608. 12. Essex Feet of F. 141-2 . 13. Bk . of Fees , 477. 14. Ibid . 608. 15. Cat . of Anct . D. vi . C. 5956. 16. Ibid . ii . C. 2581. 17. R. Hund . i . 164b . Round , The King's Serjeants , 121 note , 132 . 20. Feud . Aids , ii . 149. 21. Cal . Pat . R. 283 . 23. Feud . Aids , vi . 608 . 


 18. See 19. Morant , Essex , ii . 589 . 22. Cal . Close R. 496 . 


 
 
 VI . 


 In Harlow , Essex , in 1086 Eudes the sewer had 1 hide and 3 virgates which Turgis ( of Roding ) held of him . 


 In 1166 Gilbert de Helawe held of Henry Fitz - Gerold the chamberlain fee of the fee late of Eudes the sewer.¹ In 1180 William son of Fulcher proffered 40s . for a recognition of Harlow , late his maternal uncle's . Gilbert de Herlawe was living in 1199 , when he had a plaint against the abbot of St. Edmund's , ³ who held an extensive fee in Harlow . Possibly the same Gilbert held in 1212 , or later , part of Harlow of the honor of Boulogne , as parcel 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 204] ===
 
 
 188 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 4 


 of the fee late of Pharamus de Boulogne ; but in 1202 Walter de Herlaue quitclaimed land in Harlow to Henry Fitz - Fulcher.5 


 William de Herlawe succeeded and in 1217 had a writ of re seisin of his land directed to the sheriff of Essex . In 1219 he was the husband of Joan , third daughter and coheir of Richard de Raymes , in respect of the barony of Little Rayne , but it was not known by whom her marriage had been given to him . " She was the relict of Brian Aquarius and , possibly in her right of dower , William , her then husband , held 1 virgate in Writtle by serjeanty of keeping vert and venison of the forest there , and by farm of 20s.8 Early in 1220 William and Joan were impleaded by one of the coheirs of Raymes of land in Rayne ( Rennes ) . In 1222 the tenement in Writtle was in the king's hands , but the sheriff of Essex was directed to give seisin to William de Herlaue and Joan his wife of her dower of the tenement late of Brian Aquarius , formerly her husband , in Writtle.10 In 1223 William was a com missioner for the sale of wind - fallen wood in Essex.11 In 1227 he was party to a plea of land in Stambourne , Essex.12 Prior to 1228 Matilda de Herlaue , formerly nurse of king John , had a livery of 6d . per diem out of the Exchequer.13 


 In 1232 William de Herlaue was one of the keepers of escheats in Essex and a collector of the fortieth.14 Two years later he obtained a recognition of his right in land in Harlow against the parson of the church there.15 


 It is not known how this tenement passed to David son of David de Flitwyc , who in 1233 was impleaded by Robert son of Simon de Roinges for customs and services due for the tenement he held of the said Robert in Harlow and for suit to his court at Roding ; David denied that he owed forinsec service or suit , because he and his ancestors had always done them to Margery de Rivers ; Robert claimed to be mesne between David and Margery.16 David de Flittewick vouched to warranty Margery de Rivers in 1239 against Robert de Roynges of Roding , who had demanded against David the service of fee and 2s . rent for the tenement which he held of the said Margery in Harlow , but afterwards . released his claim.17 In 1236 ( ? ) the same David held this tenement of the said Margery.18 He was the tenant of the honor of Skipton in Flitwick , Beds.19 


 
 
 In 1262 Nicholas Fitz - Fucher or Fulcher held lands in Good Easter , Writtle , Roding St. Margaret , Nevenden and Benfleet of David de Flitwyk , to whom the said Nicholas quitclaimed a mes suage and carucate in Harlow held of Baldwin de L'Isle.20 This appears to have been the manor of Brent Hall , later New Hall.21 David son of David de Flittewyk , and Lucy his wife , had in 1265 lands in Ringstone , Rippingale , Dunsby and Leesingham by the gift of Ralph de Ryngesdon ; 22 in 1274 he was presented for making a purpresture in Harlow.23 In 1282 the same David held fee in Welford and fee in Lokinton , Northants . , of Baldwin Wake.24 He died in 1296 holding the manor of Flitwick of the honor of Albemarle for fee and service of 5s . for castleguard of Craven in Yorkshire ; David his son was aged 30 years . This 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 205] ===
 
 
 HARLOW - BRETTENHAM - GT . CHISHALL 189 


 
 
 family had also lands in Leicestershire.26 David de Fletwyk held 


 2 


 fee in Harlow in 1303.27 In 1305 died William Gumbaud of Thorn Gumbald , Yorks . , whose heirs were his 4 sisters , Lora wife of David de Fletwych , Margaret wife of Lawrence de Holbech , Joan a nun at Swyne and Christiana a nun at Stixwould.28 David died in 1311 seised of a sixth part of Thorn Gumbald , leaving David his son , aged 30 years.29 Lora de Flitewyk , late wife of Thomas de Neufmarché the elder , knt . , died in 1337 holding for life the Lin colnshire estate in Ringstone and other places and a fourth part of the manor of Thorn Gumbald and other lands in Holderness ; David de Fletewyk , knt . , her son , was aged 40 years and more . 


 David de Fletewyk , knt . , died in 1355 , having a year before his death given his manor of Brendhall in Harlow to Agatha daughter of David de Fletewyk the younger , knt . , for her life with reversion to his heirs ; it was held of John de L'Isle of Rouge mont by knight's service ; David son of the said David the younger , aged 6 years , was his kinsman and heir . The deceased also held the Lincolnshire estate in Ringstone and elsewhere.31 The estate in Flitwick , Beds . , had been held in 1346 by David de Flittewyk , knt . , as fee , of John de L'Isle , as of the fee of the countess D'Aumarle.32 In 1368 the heirs of David de Flettewyk held tenements in Harlow of Robert de L'Isle for fee.33 


 
 
 30 


 
 
 1. Red Bk . 354 . 2. Pipe R. 26 Hen . II , 6. 3. R. Cur . Regis , ii . 91 . 4. Bk . of Fees , 236. 5. Essex Feet of F. 30. 6. R. Lit. Claus . i . 376b . 7. Bk . of Fees , 274 . 8. Ibid . 278. 9. Essex Feet of F. 55. 10. R. Lit. Claus . i . 504b . 11. Pat . R. 400 . 12. Ibid . 155. 13. Close R. 65 . 14. ' Close R. 131 , 159. 15. Essex Feet of F. 102. 16. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 727. 17. Essex Feet of F. 121. Cf. n . 117 ( p . 67 ) . 18. Bk . of Fees , 608 . 19. Ibid . 894. 20. Essex Feet of F. 253 . Cf. 107 . 21. Morant , Essex , ii . 483 . 22. Linc . Feet of F. ii . 224. 23. R. Hund . i . 160. 24. Cal . Inquis . ii . 261 . 25. Ibid . iii . 210. 26. Ibid . 195 , 350 . 27. Feud . Aids , ii . 139. 28. Cal . Inquis . iv . 198. Cf. Abbrev . Placit . 303. 29. Cal . Inquis . v . 177. 30. Ibid . viii . 70 , 81. 31. Ibid . x . 208. 32. Ibid . 300. 33. Cal . Close R. 495 . 


 
 
 VII . 


 
 
 This tenement in Brettenham , Norf . , was held of the honor of Arundel , presumably by Eudes the sewer before 1120 , together with his own fee there ( n . 46 ) . In 1166 it was held by Alexander de Roinges of Henry Fitz - Gerold the chamberlain , as of the fees . late of Eudes the sewer.1 The descent of this holding has been described at Arundel , n . 62 . 


 1. Red Bk . 355 . 


 
 
 VIII . 


 In Chishall ( Great ) , Essex , in 1086 Roger de Otburvill had 33 hides . 


 
 
 Roger de Aubervill ( Otburvilla ' ) held there 3 hides . 


 It is possible that this land was the maritagium of Rohaise , daughter of Ralph de Amblie ( n . 1 ) and wife of Alexander de Limesei.¹ In 1166 Alexander de Limesei held 1 fee of Henry 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 206] ===
 
 
 190 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 Fitz - Gerold of the fee late of Eudes the sewer.2 The subsequent descent of this tenement is obscure . 


 
 
 In 1205 Simon Fitz - Herbert was taking action in Essex and Hertfordshire to recover his money from the custody of William de Chissehill.³ In 1236 ( ? ) John de Chishell held of Margery de Rivers I fee in Chishall ( and Crikes , ' ( ? ) Criksea ) , ª and in 1248 the same Margery impleaded John son of Thomas touching customs and services for his tenement in Chishall , namely I fee , in respect of which she demanded 2s . a year and the service of 1 knight.5 In 1267 Isabel des Forz , countess of Albemarle , released to Margaret de Rivers , countess of Devon , inter alia 1 fee in Chishall and Crikes . ' 


 &lt; 


 
 
 It was presented in 1274 that a certain part of Great Chishall and Arkesden , which was held of the chamberlainship of the king , used to come to the sheriff's tourn from the time that Falkes de Breauté held Bedford castle ( against the king ) until the queen had the wardship of the heir of Baldwin de L'Isle the chamberlain , but not since then . " 


 
 
 In 1303 one whose name is now lost and William de St. Omer held a tenement in Chishall , late of the fee of the earl of Albemarle , for I fee.8 In 1368 Thomas Tewe held 1 fee in Great Chishall , late John de L'Isle's , of Sir Robert de L'Isle.º 


 
 
 2. Red Bk . 355 . 5. Essex Feet of F. 175 . 8. Feud . Aids , ii . 150 . 


 
 
 1. Colchester Chartul . 337-8 . 4. Bk . of Fees , 608 . 


 7. R. Hund . i . 164b . Feud . Aids , vi . 608 . 


 
 
 3. R. de Fin . 309 . 6. Abbrev . Placit . 160 . 9. Cal . Close R. 496 ; 


 
 
 IX . 


 It is suggested that the tenements held in 1166 by Roger son of Roger for 2 fees of Henry Fitz - Gerold the chamberlain , as of the fees late of Eudes the sewer , represented those described below at n . 35 . 


 
 
 X. 


 In Kent Adam Fitz - Hubert in 1086 held of the bishop of Bayeux in South or St. Paul's Cray I solin , in West Wickham I solin , in Cooling by Rochester 1 solin . 


 2 


 Ralph Pincerna gave to St. John's , Colchester , hide in his manor of ' Wicham , ' which gift was confirmed by Henry I in 1104 and 1119.¹ He also gave to the monks of Rochester tithes in Cool ing worth 5s . a year.² He attested charters of Henry I of the latter date.³ His son Adam Pincerna confirmed the gift by charter attested by Robert de Ria , and Ansfrid the chaplain of the lord Eudes.4 


 
 
 6 


 In 1155 or 1158 Henry II sent his mandate to Hugh Pincerna to restore to the monks of Colchester their land of ' Wicham . ' 5 This place has been identified as Wickham Skeith , Suff . , but whether correctly or not it is difficult to determine . It is here taken to have been West Wickham in Kent . Hugh Pincerna 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 207] ===
 
 
 COOLING , ST . PAUL'S CRAY 191 


 
 
 accounted in Kent in 1156 for the relief of his land and paid then the sum , namely 60 marks , except 16s . 8d . , a hawk and a girfalcon . " He cannot be identified satisfactorily as the above - named Hugh , who during the period 1165-74 , at Westminster , before two of the King's justices and other barons of the exchequer , surrendered to Colchester the hide in Wicham which Ralph Pincerna , his grand father , had given and Ralph's son Adam had confirmed . At the same time and place Walter abbot of Colchester demised the said tenement to the same Hugh for 10s . yearly rent . Further refer ences to Hugh Pincerna will be found at Curcy ( n . 18 ) . In 1166 he held of Henry Fitz - Gerold 7 fees , as of the fee of Eudes the sewer ; 10 of Philip de Columbers I fee in Thornbury , Herefs.11 Pos sibly he was the Hugh Pincerna who held of Adam de Port fee , 12 namely in Rowden in the same county , as of the honor of Kington , which was held in 1242-3 of the heirs of Adam le Butiller.13 He died in 1181 , as noted at Curcy ( n . 18 ) , 14 and in 1189 his heir was still in the king's hands.14 


 The heir appears to have been Adam le Buteiller , who in 1206 acknowledged that he owed a rent to William de Paris in respect of a hide in Newington , Oxon . ( Arsic , n . 8 ( 1 ) . ) 15 He was of the party of the barons in 1215 , when the sheriff of Kent was directed to put Reginald de Drumare in possession of Adam's land in Cooling and Wickham ( Wycham ' ) during pleasure , the sheriff of Oxford shire being similarly directed in regard to Adam's manor of Wil cote.16 Adam died in 1224 , when custody of his land in Cooling , which Falkes de Breauté had held for an unexpired term from the said Adam , was committed to Ralph Fitz - Nicholas for the residue of that term , ¹7 and the sheriff of Kent was directed to give Joan relict of Adam some part of her dower , until Adam's son and heir assigned to her lands in dower.18 Custody of the land and heir of Ralph Joas , which John de Breauté had purchased from Adam Pincerna in Oxfordshire for a term of 17 years , was in 1224 granted to the king's bailee.19 In 1226 William le Butiller was summoned to answer William de Stanes why he did not keep an agreement made between complainant and Adam le Butiller his father touching custody of the land late of Ralph le Moyne in Rowden ( ‘ Raden ' ) and Wickham.20 In 1230 Ralph Fitz - Nicholas had remission of scutage of 5 fees late of William le Butiller in Kent , then in Ralph's custody ; Margaret de Rivers , to whom they belonged , being duly notified of this remission.21 In 1236 ( ? ) William le Botiler held of Margaret de Rivers 7 fees in Cooling , Wickham and Cray.22 He died before 1242-3 , when Nicholas de Ores held fee in Cooling of the heir of William le Butiller , who held of Margaret de Rivers ; Ralph Fitz - Nicholas , by reason of custody of the said heir , simi larly held 1 fee in Cooling , and William de Staines held 3 fees in Wickham and Simon de Cray 2 fees in Cray of the said Ralph , as above.23 


 1 


 
 
 The heir was another Adam le Butiller , described in 1250 as son of the lady of Wickham , when he and 15 others were found to have broken the park of Robert Aguillon at Addington , Surrey.24 The next in descent appears to have been Roger le Butiller , who 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 208] ===
 
 
 192 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 was presented in 1272 for having with others broken into Arundel park.25 In 1284-5 John de Cobbeham held Cooling for I fee of Roger le Butiller , who held of the countess of Wight.2 26 This John died in 1300 holding the manor of Cooling of the countess of Albemarle for I fee ; Henry his son was aged 40 years.27 In 1308 Peter de Huntingfeld died seised of the manor of West Wickham , Kent , held of Roger le Botiler for 3 fees , who held of the heir of Isabel des Forz , sometime countess of Albemarle , in the king's wardship , and by doing suit at the court of Albemarle at Walbrook in London or at Arkesden in Essex ; Hawise de Leyham , his sister , was aged 60 and more.28 


 
 
 2 


 Apparently the male line of Butiler had terminated , for although Robert le Butiller was returned in 1316 as lord of Wilscote , Oxon . , 29 the fees in Kent appear to have been held in 1302 as follows : ( 1 ) Peter de Huntyngfeld 3 fees in Wickham of Ralph Fitz - Nicholas ( sic ) , ( 2 ) Peter de Huntyngfeld and Simon atte Broke fee in St. Paul's Cray of Simon de Crey ( sic ) , ( 3 ) William de Crey fee in Cray of the said Simon ( sic ) , 30 ( 4 ) Henry de Cobham 1 fee in Cooling of Margery de Rivers ( sic ) , and ( 5 ) Nicholas de Ore fee in Cooling.31 These details are taken from the returns of 1346 , when the above tenements were thus held : ( 1 ) John de Huntyng feld , knt . , 3 fees , ( 2 ) John Champaygne and Margaret Vyvian fee , ( 3 ) John de Pulteney and others fee , ( 4 ) John de Cobham 1 fee , ( 5 ) the heirs of Nicholas Ore fee , and Roger de Rokesle , younger , and his parceners fee in Cray.32 


 
 
 In 1368 these tenements were held of Sir Robert de L'Isle as follows : the heirs of Sir John de Huntyngfeld 3 fees in West Wickham by Croydon ; Henry de Scrope , knt . , the tenements late of William de Crey in St. Paul's Cray for 2 fees ; John de Cobham , knt . , the tenements in Cooling by Rochester late of Henry de Cobham for fee , with the tenements there late of Nicholas Grys.33 


 
 
 1. Colchester Chartul . 6 , 13 . 


 2. Text . Roff . ( Hearne ) , 164. 3. Itin . of Hen . I. 4. Colchester Chartul . 137. 5. Ibid . 41. 6. Turner and Coxe , Bodleian Chs . 62. 7. Pipe R. 2 Hen . II , 66 , 102. 8. Colchester Chartul . 138 . 9. Ibid . 10. Red Bk . 355. 11. Ibid . 231. 12. Ibid . 280. 13. Testa , 65 . 14. Pipe R. I Ric . I , 233. 15. Abbrev . Placit . 51. 16. R. Lit. Claus . i . 235b . 17. Ibid . 622h . 18. Ibid . 6120. 19. Ibid . ii . 5b . Cf. Bracton's Note Bk . n . 1131 . 20. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 1702. 21. Cal . Liberate R. i . 163 . 22. Bk . of Fees , 607 . 23. Testa , 209b . 24. Cal . Misc . Inq . i . 555 . 25. Ibid . 137. 26. Feud . Aids , iii . 1. 27. Cal . Inquis . iii . 453. 28. Ibid . 29. Feud . Aids , iv . 163 . 30. Ibid . iii . 49–50 . 31. Ibid . 41 . 


 v . 3 . 


 32. Ibid . 41 , 49–50 . 33. Cal . Close R. 495 ; Feud . Aids , vi . 635–6 . 


 
 
 XI . 


 The following tenements have not been identified in the Domes day Survey ; but in Rochford hundred , Essex , Pirot held of Eudes the manor of Hawkwell ( n . 24 ) ; land in Paglesham may have belonged to this manor . In the hundred of Tendring Eudes held the manor of Weeley , to which may have belonged land in Dickley ( in Mistley ) . 


 Either during the last decade of Henry I's reign or the first 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 209] ===
 
 
 PAGLESHAM , DICKLEY 193 


 
 
 decade of Stephen's , by charter addressed to Walcheline arch deacon ( of Suffolk ) , Maurice de Hai gave to the monks of Colchester the church of Higham , Suff . , in so far as it belonged to the fee of Robert de Vallibus.¹ He also gave with the consent of his son and heir Ranulf land and rent in Hoo , as related below ( n . 12 ( 1 ) ) , by charter witnessed by Ranulf his son and Ranulf's brothers , Reimund , Julian and Walter , and Hugh son of Stephen.2 Of this Hugh son of Stephen Ranulf held hide in Scyrta , ' which he likewise gave to Colchester.³ 


 
 
 Within the period 1163-1174 Gilbert Foliot , bishop of London , confirmed to St. John's two - thirds of the tithes of Walter de La Hai in Dikeley.4 


 
 
 7 


 In 1166 Ranulf de Hai held of Henry Fitz - Gerold fee and fee , of the fee late of Eudes the sewer.5 With the consent of Maurice his son and heir he gave to Colchester land in Abberton in Essex.6 In 1199 William de la Haie demanded against Maurice de Haie a rent in Strafford and Higham in Suff . The plaintiff was possibly the William de la Hay who held in 1201 of the honor of Boulogne I fee in Mersea and Layer , which Walter de Haye and Rohaise de Haye held in 1212.9 Pope Innocent III confirmed to St. John's in 1201 two - thirds of the tithes of the demesne of William de La Hay in Layer and Dikeley.10 


 In 1203 Maurice de Haie obtained an acknowledgment from his tenant of Dickley , Essex , of the service of fee for the same.11 Julian de la Hay went over seas in the king's service in 1230 in the retinue of Richard de Muntfichet.12 Maurice died 10 years before 1231 , when Sanicula his relict demanded against Petronilla late wife of Saher de la Haye a third part of 9 score acres of wood in Bacham stede as parcel of the tenement which she then held in dower of Julian de la Haye of the free tenement which Maurice her late husband held in frank marriage ; Julian warranted the tenement to Petronilla for her life.13 There is some uncertainty as to Maurice's heir . There is nothing to show that he left issue . It is therefore suggested that the succession fell to a younger line of issue of Ranulf de la Hay , namely William his ( younger ) son , who so describing himself confirmed to St. John's , Colchester , the testamentary gift of Rohaise his mother of a rent in the suburbs of Colchester . His charter was attested by Henry prior of St. Botolph's , Colchester ( occ . 1205–6 ) , Walter de Hay , Ranulf de Hay and his brother Ralph.14 The same William also gave a rent in Wateley for the soul of his wife Mary , and William his son confirmed the gift.¹ It is assumed that the son was the William de la Haye who in 1236 ( ? ) held of Margaret de Rivers fee in Paglesham called Le Gardin and fee in Dickley , Essex.¹ This was not the William de la Hay who held 1 fee in Layer de la Haye and Marsea and died in 1229 , when wardship of his land and heir was given to Henry de Tibetot . Ralph the son and heir of this William had livery in 1244.18 Morant gives the descent of this branch of the family . 


 15 


 16 


 17 


 No further information has been found touching this fee until 1368 , when the prior of St. Botolph's , Colchester , held of Robert de L'Isle a tenement in Paglesham called ' le Gardyn , ' late 


 
 
 III . O 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 210] ===
 
 
 194 EUDES THE SEWER HONOR OF 


 
 
 of William de la Haye , for fee , and fee in Dickley , formerly of the same William.19 


 
 
 2. Ibid . 190 . 


 3. Ibid . 191 , 217 . Colchester Chartul . 191. 7. R. Cur . 9. Red Bk . 579 . 


 12. Pat . R. 361 . 15. Ibid . 194-5 . 


 
 
 1. Colchester Chartul . 189 . 


 4. Ibid . 87 . 


 Reg . ii . 129 . 


 5. Red Bk . 355 . 6 . 8. R. de Oblat . 163 . Chartul . 67. 11. Essex Feet of F. 32 . Note - Bk . n . 558 . 14. Chartul . 193 . 608. 17. Close R. 205 ; Excerpt . Fin . i . 196. 18. Close R. 222. 19. Cal . Close R. 496. Cf. Feud . Aids , vi . 608 . 


 10. Colchester 13. Bracton's 16. Bk . of Fees , 


 
 
 XII . 


 In Kent Geoffrey de Ros held of the bishop of Bayeux in 1086 in Lullingstone I solin , in Otham by Maidstone I solin and I jugum , and in Litlelee including Plumstead ( ' Lasela ' ) 7 solins . In Milton by Maidstone Geoffrey de Ros had 1 jugum . 


 2 


 4 


 6 


 In 1130 Geoffrey de Ros accounted in Kent for 30s . for his father's land.¹ This was probably the final instalment of a much larger fine , for his successor held a fee of 7 knights . He gave to the priory of Sheppey with his daughter a rent in the Holme of Grain , Kent . The date of his death is uncertain . William de Ros held in 1166 in chief a fee of 6½ knights of old and fee of new feoff ment ; 3 of Henry Fitz - Gerold the chamberlain he ( ? ) held 2 fees , ¹ and probably he held a fee of the archbishop of Canterbury . In 1165 he had accounted for 7 marks for serjeants in the army of Wales , 5 and was pardoned 1 mark as a tenant of the primate . In 1168 he owed 7 marks for his knights , ' which he paid in the following year . In 1172 he paid in Kent £ 7 of scutage.8 In the ensuing year he was one of those commissioned to view the work on the keep of the city of Canterbury , and again in 1175. In 1176 the sheriff of Kent claimed allowance of £ 4 for the land of ' Wuda ' which the king had restored to William de Ros , 10 which allowance appeared yearly down to 1189. In 1182 he had some interest in the wood of Cestrewald on the land of Henry de Essex.11 In 1187 he paid £ 7 of the scutage of Galwey of his knights.12 He was deceased before 1194 , when James de Ros gave 6 marks to have seisin of 4 librates of land in Wuda , which was acknowledged before the justices in eyre to be his inheritance , and not the king's escheat.¹ In 1196 Alexander Arsic as guardian of the heir of William de Ros accounted for £ 7 to the scutage of Normandy.14 In December 1201 , Arsic being dead , custody of the land and heir of the same William was committed to Peter de Stokes , the king's seneschal.15 


 9 


 13 


 William de Ros I gave to the nuns of Sheppey the church of Bobbing , Kent , and 47 acres of the land of Wode ( identified as Woods Court in Badlesmere ) , and 3 acres of Grave in Pinegrave.16 He or his son ( ? ) gave a marsh in Sheppey called Slipe.17 


 In 1203 a plea of fee in Chillingham was removed out of the court of William de Ros into the county and after into the arch bishop's court.18 In 1205 Peter de Stokes had 4 oaks from outside the king's park of Bexley to make shingles to cover the chamber of William de Ros , who was in his wardship.19 In 1210 William de Ros of Kent was at Dublin in the army of Ireland.20 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 211] ===
 
 
 PLUMSTEAD , LULLINGSTONE 195 


 
 
 In 1211 the sheriff of Kent was directed to seize the land in Lullingstone and Farningham which Jordan de Ros held at his death , of which Alexander de Ros had seisin . Three justices having certi fied that Jordan sometime came before them and acknowledged the land to be the right of Wilekin de Ros , it was adjudged by the court that William ( de Ros ) should have his seisin and Alexander be in mercy.21 In the same year Geoffrey Fitz - Piers gave 30 marks and 2 sound and whole Norway goshawks that the land which Jordan de Ros held at his death in Lullingstone and Farningham with the chattels there when Alexander de Ros had seisin should be taken into the king's hands . 22 However , in 1215 Alexander de Ros by fine of 40 marks obtained seisin of the land late of Jordan de Ros in Lullingstone and Farningham.23 ( See Arsik , n . 5. ) In 1221 William de Ros of Kent owed 14 marks to the first scutage of Henry III , but he was not to be summoned , because he held of the archbishop of Canterbury , who owed no scutage.24 Possibly the service of his 7 fees had been granted to the primate . 


 In 1226 Thomas de Lullingeston , Richard and John his brothers attorned their brother Jordan in a plea against William de Ros III , touching cattle distrained.25 William de Ros II was deceased before 1227 , when William his son was vouched to warranty in a plea of land in Toppefeld which William de Ros his father gave to Roger de Gloucester . The pleadings show that William III was then under age , and had been in the wardship of his father , who had himself been in the wardship of Peter de Stokes.26 In 1230 the abbot of St. Augustine's , Canterbury , impleaded William de Eyneford in a plea of quare impedit touching the church of Wickham which belonged to the abbot's church of Plumstead . From the pleadings it appears that William de Eyneford had previously sold the marriage of William de Ros III to William de St. John , 27 and that William de Ros II , father of William III , had last presented to the church of Wickham as the mother church to which the chapel of Plumstead belonged , and that he presented to the chapel of Plumstead by reason of custody of the land of Plumstead which he had with the custody of the heir of William de Ros II.28 In 1234 William de Ros III was pardoned a crown debt due for his not having served in Wales , because he , like William de St. John , whose daughter he had married , had been commissioned to maritime watch.29 In 1236 ( ? ) William de Ros held of Margaret de Rivers 2 fees in Lullingstone , Otham and ' Lehe . ' • 30 In 1242-3 the heir of William de Ros held 1 fee in Lullingstone of the same Margaret and Peter de Otteham held 1 fee in Otham of the same heir , who held as above.³1 Alice de Ros held fee in Farningham in the name of dower of Richard de Ros , who held of the heirs of Robert Arsik . Odo de Cyrinton held fee in Maplecomb of Richard de Ros , who held it as above.32 For further reference to this tenure see Arsik , n . 5. In 1246 Gilbert de Kirkebi of Kent was pardoned for marrying Lora de Ros without licence.33 This lady was living in 1293 as Lady Lora de Otteham.34 


 Apparently William de Ros III died without issue . His relict Godehold married Hugh de Wyndlesores . His heir was his brother ( ? ) Richard and eventually his two sisters , Matilda wife of Geoffrey de 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 212] ===
 
 
 196 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 Percy , and Lora , presumably wife of Peter de Otham . In 1246 the king made the announcement that he had made a marriage between the sister of Richard de Ros , deceased , and Geoffrey de Percy , his ( the king's ) yeoman , but had no desire to prejudice Boniface archbishop of Canterbury , having no right in that marriage save by the archbishop's favour.35 Geoffrey was greatly in the king's favour during the period 1263-5.36 


 
 
 About the year 1275 the said Geoffrey , Matilda his wife , and Lora ( de Otham ) , then a widow , her sister , granted to Hugh and Godehold the manor of North Cray , which Godehold held in dower , with the advowson of the church and , with the fees , the dower of the said Godehold respectively held by John Martin in Tatsfield , Surrey , by Walerand de Ceridone in Maplescombe ( ? ) ( Mapeldreschamps ) , by John de Offeham in Offham , by Galiena de Burgate in ‘ Molonde , ' 


 fee which Geoffrey Stodland late held of William de Ros , and a quarter of the fee which William de Munchenesy then held in North Cray ( 7 witnesses ) .37 Subsequently Matilda's pourparty of the in heritance descended in the family of Rokesley , and Lora's in that of Valoignes . In 1266 Geoffrey de Ros had a grant of the farm of the manor of Lullingstone which a certain citizen of London , the king's enemy , had held of Geoffrey for an unexpired term , to hold until the expiry of that term , and pardon of £ 120 the redemption to be paid by the terms of the demise at the end of the term.38 


 It was presented in 1276 that the abbot of St. Augustine's , Canterbury , had more than 30 years before recovered a moiety of the manor of Plumstead against Richard de Ros , because he had denied the due service thereof ; 39 also that Isabel de Eyneford had warren in the manor of Otham.40 


 
 
 In 1302-3 Walter de Valoignes and Robert de Valoignes held I fee in Otham of the earl of Aumale ; 41 Walter de Rokesle held 1 fee in Lullingstone of Margery de Rivers ( sic ) .42 In 1316 Robert de Valoignes and Robert son of Walter de Valoignes were lords of Otham.43 


 
 
 In 1346 John de Rokesle , 44 rector of the church of Chelsfield , held I fee in Lullingstone , and Isabel late wife of Waresius de Valoignes and others held 1 fee in Otham.45 In 1368 John Pecche held of Robert de L'Isle the tenements late of Walter de Rokesleye in Otham by Maidstone and Lullingstone for 2 fees.46 


 
 
 1. Pipe R. 31 Hen . I , 64 . 


 3. Red Bk . 196. 4. Ibid . 355 . 7. Ibid . 14 Hen . II , 213 . 109 . 19 Hen . II , 87. 10. Ibid . 22 Hen . II , 206 . 12. Ibid . 33 Hen . II , 209. 13. Pipe R. 6 Ric . I , ro . 17. 14. Red Bk . 96 . 16. Cal . Chart . R. iv . 112 , 114 ; R. Chart . 148b . 


 2. Cal . Chart . R. iv . 112 ; R. Chart . 148b . 5. Pipe R. 11 Hen . II , 106. 6. Ibid . 8. Ibid . 18 Hen . II , 138. 9. Ibid . 11. Ibid . 28 Hen . II , 103 . 


 15. R. de Liberate , 24 . 


 17. Ibid . 115. 18. Abbrev . Placit . 45b . 19. R. Lit. Claus . i . 50. 20. R.de Liberate , 219. 21. Abbrev . Placit , 82. 22. Pipe R. 13 Jno . m . 6 . Fin . 567. 24. Pipe R. 5 Hen . III , ro . 14. 25. R. Lit. Claus . ii . 150b , 205 . 


 23. R. de 


 26. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 1898 . 


 27. Ibid . n . 474 . 


 29. Close R. 371. 30. Bk . of Fees , 607. 31. Testa , 209b . 33. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 447. 34. Cal . Inquis . v . 357 · 35 . 36. Ibid . 300 , 324 , 454. 37. Cat . of Anct . D. i . C. 438 . 579. 39. R. Hund . i . 234. 40. Ibid . 41. Feud . Aids , iii . 40 . 43. Ibid . 16 . 44. He was in possession in 1354 ; Cal . Inquis . x . 129 . 45. Ibid . 40 , 48. 46. Cal . Close R. 495 ; Feud . Aids , vi . 635 . 


 28. Ibid . n . 376 . 32. Testa , 214b . Cal . Pat . R. 473 . 38. Cal . Pat . R. 42. Ibid . 48 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 213] ===
 
 
 HOO ST . WERBURGH , HIGHAM 197 


 
 
 XII ( 1 ) . 


 Adam ( Fitz - Hubert ) held in 1086 of the bishop of Bayeux in the manor of Hoo St. Werburgh , Kent , I solin and I jugum ; in Higham , Kent , 5 solins and pasture for 200 sheep in Essex . 


 In 1104 and again in 1119 Henry I confirmed to the abbey of Colchester of the gift of Anschetil de Ros the tithe of Hoo and half the tithe of Plumstead.¹ Maurice de Hay gave to Colchester , with the consent of Ranulf his son and heir and for the soul of Hadewise of whose maritagium it was , 20 solidates of land and rent in Hoo.² The same Maurice , by charter addressed to archdeacon Walcheline , gave to St. John's , Colchester , the church of Higham , Suffolk , of the fee of Robert de Vallibus ; among the witnesses was Thurstan de Dichelei.³ Abbot Adam granted to the abbey of Boxley the tithes in their demesne in Hoo , formerly of William de Ros , for 30s . yearly rent ; witnessed by abbot Ralph of Coggeshall , priors Henry of St. Botolph , Colchester , William of Rochester and Fulk of Leeds , and by William de Ros the third . The date lay between 1207-1218 . 


 În 1227 Robert de Hecham demanded against Gerard son of Hamon 3 virgates in Higham of which Dennis ( Dionisius ) , father of the said Robert , had been seised in fee.5 Presumably these tene ments followed the same tenure as that last described . In 1235-6 William son of Robert held of Margaret de Rivers fee in Higham , 6 and his heir held the same in 1242-3.7 In 1239-40 Margery de Rivers demanded against Philip de Pounesse wardship of Henry son and heir of Ellen de Hecham ( Philip's late wife ) , and complained that Philip had married the heir without her licence , seeing that Ellen's land was held of complainant by knights ' service ; Philip replied that Ellen died 16 years ago and before her father , whose inheritance it was ; Ellen held only 40 acres of Margery , so that the marriage of the heir , who was then of full age , belonged rather to the bishop of Rochester , of whom the defendant held 10 librates of land , than to Margery ; verdict for Margery . 


 In 1284-5 Henry de Cobeham , John de Hakynton and Ralph de Tokyngton held fee in Higham of the countess of the Isle.⁹ In 1303 Henry de Cobham the elder , John de Shorne and Robert de Hakynton held the same of Waresius de Munchenesy , and in 1346 John de Cobham , knt . , son of Stephen de Cobham , held this fee.10 


 In 1368 Thomas de Cobham held of Sir Robert de L'Isle fee in Higham ' by Tamese ' which late was of Stephen de Cobham.11 


 
 
 It may be suggested that this tenement was severed from the fee of Ros by the possible reason of its having been granted in marriage . 


 
 
 1. Chartul . 6. 120. 2. Ibid . 190 . 


 5. Bracton's Note Bk . m . 1781 . 8. Bracton's Note Bk . n . 1283 . 11. Cal . Close R. 495 . 


 
 
 3. Ibid . 189 . 6. Bk . of Fees , 607 . 9. Feud . Aids , iii . 1 . 


 
 
 4. Ibid . 557 , 560 . 7. Testa , 209b . 10. Ibid . 41 ; vì . 635 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 214] ===
 
 
 198 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 XIII . 


 2 


 I 


 Adam ( son of Hubert ) in 1086 held of the bishop of Bayeux in Beckley , Kent , solin and in Vanne by Wye solin . Adam son of Hubert similarly held in Sutton ( ? in Boughton Malherbe ) solin . In 1130 Roger de Sumeri accounted in Kent for 10 marks for having the land of his wife's mother.¹ In 1166 Ellis de Sumeri held of Henry FitzGerold the chamberlain 1 fee of the fees late of Eudes the sewer.2 In 1176 Henry II confirmed to St. Alban's the gift of Ellis de Sumeri of the church of All Saints of Sudbury , Suff . , with the chapel of Ballingdon and the land of Middleton of the earl of Gloucester's fee , a messuage , 500 acres of land in Bygrave and the church of that vill.3 Possibly he was succeeded by Adam de Sumeri , who appeared in a Kent plea in 1194 as attorney for Geoffrey ( Gilo ) de Merleia . In 1198 Adam de Sumery was impleaded touch ing waste which he had made in land and wood in ' Kingesfeld ' in Essex , which he held of the dower of his wife.5 In 1208 the prior of Leeds obtained enrolment on the Kent Pipe Roll of the grant made to him before the barons of the Exchequer by Adam de Sumeri of the chapel of St. John the Evangelist of Boughton ( ' Boitone ' ) . " The name may be a misreading for Boctone and , if so , we may identify the chapel as that of Boughton Malherbe . Adam son and heir of Ellis de Sumeri and Saher son of Henry gave land in Shenley , Herts . , in the time of Henry III to St. Bartholomew's , Smithfield.7 Adam de Sumeri gave to the same priory the manor of Holmes , Herts , 8 But this probably was not the Adam named in 1194 and 1198 , but rather the Adam who held 1 fee in Bygrave in 1212 of Miles de Sumery ; 9 for in 1234 Saher son of Henry was im pleading Adam de Sumery touching customs and services which he demanded from Adam for his free tenement in Shenley , Herts.10 In 1235-6 Adam de Sumeri held fee ( ? ) of the countess of Essex in Essex or Hertford.11 As Adam de Sumery , knt . , was in 1251 one of the sureties of the executors of Saher son of Henry , citizen of London , and described as having land in Hertfordshire , 12 he may perhaps be identified as of Bygrave , and not of the Kent family . See East Herts . Arch . Trans . iv . pt . 3 , pp . 283 , 285 ; and Cat . of Anct . D. i . A. 1575 , A. 1057 ff . and ii . A. 1907 ; iii . A. 5138 , 5141 ; iv . A. 6824 . 


 
 
 In 1236 ( ? ) dame Muriel de Somery held of Margaret de Rivers I fee in Vanne and Sutton , Kent , 13 and in 1242-3 Muriel de Sumery held of the same Margaret fee in Boughton ( Malherbe ) , and John de Cobbeham held fee in Beckley of John de Wolton , who held of Muriel de Sumery and she of Margaret de Rivers.14 


 
 
 Possibly we have a reference to this fee in 1266 , when it was presented from the hundred of Wye in Kent that John son of Adam de Somery was a rebel and on the side of the earl of Leicester with Sir Hugh de Nevill at the battle of Lewes ; his land in the hundred of Wye , possibly in Vanne in Crundale , was worth 100s . a year and at the date of the inquiry was held by Roberge wife of the said John.15 


 In 1303 John de Somery of Boughton held fee in Boughton 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 215] ===
 
 
 BECKLEY - SHELVE - LAYER BRETON 199 


 
 
 4 


 Malherbe 16 and fee in Vanne.17 Henry de Cobham the younger held fee in Beckley.18 In 1346 these tenements were respectively held by the same ( ? ) John de Somery and John de Cobham , knt.19 


 It has been stated incorrectly that John de Somery of Bygrave was knight of the shire for Hertford in 1307 and 1314 , and presented to the church of Bygrave in 1349 and 1350.20 As a matter of fact his father Richard of Hertfordshire was living in 1324 , when he had temporary respite of knighthood.21 In 1347 Geoffrey Somery released to John Somery , son and heir of Richard Somery , knt . , his right in the manors of Bygrave and Wall Hall , Herts.2 The same John was living in 1351 and had land in Shenley . 23 


 22 


 In 1368 the following held of Robert de L'Isle , viz . John Stoil fee in Boughton by Sutton Valence , late of John Somery ; John de Haudlo sometime held fee in Vanne by Wye , which was then in the king's hands ; John de Cobham held fee in ' Bekkles by Hengham upon Tamese ' ( recte Beckley , in Chalk ) of the inheritance of John de Wolton and John de Somery.24 


 
 
 2. Red Bk . 355. 3. Mon. Angl . ii . 229 . 


 5. Ibid . 147 , 169. 6. Pipe R. 10 John , гo . Id . 8. Bodleian ch . ( Turner and Coxe ) , 163. 9. Bk . 


 of Fees , 124. 10. Close R. 599. 11. Bk . of Fees , 481. 12. Memor . R. 35 Hen . III , m . 12. 13. Close R. 607. 14. Testa , 209b . 15. Cal . Misc . Ibid . 33. 18. Ibid . 41. 19. Ibid . 


 Inq . i . 311. 16. Feud . Aids , iii . 39. 17 . 20. East Herts . Arch . Trans . iv . pt . 3 , 285 . 22. Cal . Close R. 84. 23. Ibid . 393 . vi . 635 . 


 21. Cal . Fine R. iii . 299–300 . 24. Ibid . 494-5 . Cf. Feud . Aids , 


 
 
 1. Pipe R. 31 Hen . I , 64 . 4. R. Cur . Regis , i . 34 . 7. Mon. Angl . vi . 295b . 


 
 
 XIV . 


 Adam Fitz - Hubert held of the bishop of Bayeux in Shelve in Lenham ( Estselve ' ) , Kent , solin in 1086 . 


 In 1166 Stephen de Selva held of Henry Fitz - Gerold the chamber lain fee as of the fees late of Eudes the sewer.¹ In 1200 Margaret late wife of Guy de Selves impleaded William de Selves for reason able dower of the gift of Guy her late husband in Shelve.2 In 1215 the land late of Adam son of William in Shelve was committed to Robert de Harevill . For reference to Adam son of William , who was possibly tenant in demesne here , see n . 54 . 


 3 


 In 1236 ( ? ) Amis de Shelves held of Margaret de Rivers fee in Shelve , and in 1242-3 Amisius de Selves held the same . 4 


 5 


 
 
 Ma 


 
 
 fee 


 6 


 In 1302-3 William de Shelve held of the earl of Aumale in Shelve in Lenham . In 1346 John de Shelve and John Cryel held the same . " In 1368 Lawrence Shelve held of Robert de L'Isle fee in Shelve by Lenham.8 


 
 
 1. Red Bk . 355 . 2. R. Cur . Regis , ii . 153. 3. R. Lit. Claus . i . 229 . 4. Bk . of Fees , 607. 5. Testa , 209b . 6. Feud . Aids , iii . 40. 7. Ibid . 40 ; vi . 635. 8. Cal . Close R. 495 . 


 
 
 XV . 


 Sasselin held in demesne in Layer Breton , Essex , 8 hides . In Suffolk the king held in Harkstead 5 carucates , being a bere wick of Brightlingsea in Essex which Peter of Valoignes then 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 216] ===
 
 
 200 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 kept . Possibly part of these tenements were involved in the fee described below . 


 About the year 1120 Henry I at Caen gave to Fulk the sewer Layer and the land which he held of Eudes the sewer by the service of 2 fees.¹ This tenement appears to have been held subsequently by the family of Breton . Lewis le Breton gave to abbot Walter ( 1165-72 ) and St. John's , Colchester , land in Harkstead . In 1166 Lewis held of Henry Fitz - Gerold the chamberlain fee as of the fees of Eudes the sewer.3 Ranulf le Breton and Mabel his mother con firmed to St. John's , Colchester , the gift of Lewis his father in Hark stead and two - thirds of the tithes of the demesne of Layer , 4 given apparently by William son of Constantine before 1104.5 A release made by the same Ranulf was attested by William le Breton , his son and heir , and by Walter , another son . In 1199 Ranulf le Breton was a visor upon the grand assize in Essex , ' and again in Sussex.8 After the death of Ranulf his relict Adeliza gave a rent in Layer , with the consent of Robert her son and heir and of her daughter Catherine , wife of William de Hou.9 Of Robert le Breton all that appears to be known is that he gave to St. John's , Colchester , parcels of land in Layer for the souls of his father and mother , who had sepulture in that monastery , and for the health of the soul of Amabel his wife . Geoffrey brother of the donor attested.10 Morant confuses him with another Robert of Ardley , who may have been of the line of Breton of Chigwell , of whom Ralph was farmer of the honor of Boulogne from 1169 to 1189 , and had issue Robert , who died before 1199 , and was father of William le Breton of Chigwell ( occ . 1231 ) , who was in possession in 1200.11 Obviously it is easy to confuse the members of these two distinct families of the same name and county . 


 A writ of reseisin in 1217 addressed to the sheriffs of Essex and Suffolk and the bailiff of Colchester in favour of William le Bretun probably refers to the then tenant of this fee.12 In 1236 ( ? ) William le Breton held of Margaret de Rivers 2 fees in Layer Breton , Essex , and Harkstead , Suff.¹ In 1242 the sheriffs of Essex , Norfolk and Suffolk were notified that William le Breton had respite of knight hood.14 In 1242-3 Gilbert de Bolebec held of Margaret de Rivers fee in Harkstead.15 Doubtless he held it under William le Bretun . 


 13 


 
 
 medy . 


 
 
 It was presented in 1274 that land in Layer Breton was of the fee of Nicholas le Bretun , 16 and again in the following year that view of frankpledge of Harkstead was in the hands of the said Nicholas and that he claimed certain liberty in the vill of Harkstead by pre scription and took amends of brewers ; it was of the fee of the countess de L'Isle.17 In 1286 the same Nicholas defended his right to these liberties in Harkstead.18 He died in 1288 and in 1295 the king presented to the church of Harkstead by reason of custody of the land and heir of the said Nicholas.19 


 
 
 In 1331 


 In 1316 William le Breton was lord of Harkstead.20 land in Harkstead was held of William le Breton by rent and suit to his court there . 21 Morant cites a settlement of the manor of Layer Breton made in 1325 on the said William for life with remainder to his son Nicholas and Isabel his wife.22 In 1368 Lawrence Breton 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 217] ===
 
 
 HARKSTEAD - PINCHPOLES IN MANUDEN 201 


 
 
 held of Robert de L'Isle the tenement in Layer by Colchester , late of William le Breton , for fee , and in Harkstead fee . 23 In 1401-2 & Nicholas Breton held the same tenement.24 


 
 
 In the feodary of circa 1236 of the knights ' fees held by Margaret de Rivers are two tenements of which the former may have formed part of this fee , namely William de Haunle fee in Layer and William son of Richard fee in Elmstead . These were not mentioned among the knights ' fees released in 1267 to Margaret de Rivers , countess of Devon ; 25 nor in the schedule of fees of Robert de L'Isle in 1368 , when he surrendered them to Edward III . 


 
 
 In 1236 Andrew Peverel and Lucy his wife quitclaimed to William son of Richard a rent in Elmstead , Essex.26 It is possible that this was a member of the fee of Helyon . For the land in Layer see n . 21 . 


 
 
 1. Chartul . of Colchester , 23 . 


 2. Ibid . 186. 3. Red Bk . 355 . 


 4. Chartul . 


 of Colchester , 187. 5. Ibid . 13. 6. Ibid . 188. 7. R. Cur . Reg . i . 241 . 8. Ibid . ii . 268. 9. Chartul . of Colchester , 188. 10. Ibid . 189. 11. Pipe R. Hen . II , pass .; R. Cur . Reg . i . 304 ; ii . 247 ; Abbrev . Placit . 25b . 12. R. Lit. Claus . i . 332. 13. Bk . of Fees , 608. 14. Close R. 431. 15. Testa , 290b . 16. R. Hund . i . 157. 17. Ibid . ii . 1776 , 1896. 18. Placit . de quo war . 7236 . 19. Cal . Pat . R. 157 ; 21. Cal , Inquis . vii . 275 . 24. Feud . Aids , vi . 608 . 


 20. Feud . Aids , v . 36 . 23. Cal . Close R. 496–7 . 26. Essex Feet of F. 118 . 


 
 
 Cal . Fine R. i . 253 . 


 22. Hist . of Essex , i . 410 . 25. Abbrev . Placit . 160 . 


 
 
 XVI 


 Sasselin held in 1086 of the king in Pinchpoles in Manuden , Essex , I hide . 


 
 
 In 1166 Lambert son of Godebert held of Henry FitzGerold the chamberlain fee as of the fees late of Eudes the sewer.¹ In 1198 Godebald son of Lambert was one of 4 men who made a presentment touching a certain outlawry.2 Gerard de Manegeden was an attorney for Robert de Marenni in an Essex plea in 1199.3 It is suggested , as a conjecture , that the fee , held as above in 1166 , was in Manuden . In 1198 William de Pinkepal and Jordan de Manegedon were amerced by the justices in eyre in Essex.4 


 6 


 In 1226 William de Pinchepol quitclaimed to John de Bassing burne and Aubreye his wife I hide in Manuden , 5 and subsequently the same John and Aubreye demised the tenement to Gerard de Manekeden for life . In 1235-6 Joan Ledet answered for the aid due from fee held of Margery de Revers . " In 1236 ( ? ) Henry de Maneheden held of Margaret de Rivers fee in Manuden.8 In 1240 lands in Manuden and other places in Essex were settled upon John de Bassingburn and the heirs of his body , remainder to Stephen brother of the said John and the heirs of his body , the reversion to Aubreye de Bassingeburn and her heirs . It is quite uncertain whether the land here of the Rivers and later of the Aumale fee belonged at any time to the Bassingbournes . In 1242-3 John Sausemares held fee in Manuden of Warin Fitz - Gerold and Robert Ledet held 1 fee there of Margery de Rivers.10 


 A plea in 1226 in which Henry de Rumely and Emma his wife demanded against William Fitz - Geoffrey the moiety of fee in Roding , Essex , as Emma's share of the land late of 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 218] ===
 
 
 202 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 Richard Fitz - William , her father , shews that the said Richard had another daughter Margery , who had sons then under age . 


 11 


 The prior of Ely had in 1236 a plea with William de Muntchenesy , Henry de Rumely and Emma his wife , Robert Ledet and Emma his wife , and Geoffrey de Brunford and Amy his wife respecting an acre of land in Stoke by Ipswich.12 In 1240 the same Henry and Robert and their wives quitclaimed to William Fitz - Geoffrey for themselves and the heirs of their respective wives fee in Roding.13 In 1267 a half fee in Manuden was among the fees that Isabel des Forz , countess of Aumale , released to Margaret de Rivers , countess of Devon.14 


 
 
 John de Bassingbourne in 1327 held fee in Manuden of Richard de Plaiz , 15 and his descendants long held lands here of the heirs general of Munfichet . In 1368 John Bataille held of Robert de L'Isle fee in Manuden lately ( 1242-3 ) of John Sausemer , and fee there late of Robert Revela ( ? Ledet ) .16 The family of Ledet appear to have been long seated at Roding Abbess . In 1340 Robert Ledet , son and heir of Walter Ledet of Roding Abbess , released to William Fitz - Richard of Roding his right in land there held by William of the gift of Walter father of the said Robert.17 


 In 1401-2 John Bataille held lands and tenements in Manuden late of John Sausemer for fee , of the honor late of Robert de Lisle.18 2. R. Cur . Regis , i . 305 , 311. 3. Ibid . ii . 61. 4. Ibid . i . 182 . 6. Ibid . 63. 7. Bk . of Fees , 477 , 480. 8. Ibid . 608 . 10. Testa , 271. 11. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 1748 . Essex Feet of F. 129 . 


 71 . 


 128 . 


 13 . 


 14. Abbrev . Placit . 160 . 


 16. Cal . Close R. 496. 17. Ibid . 455 . 


 18. Feud . 


 
 
 1. Red Bk . 355 . 5. Essex Feet of F. 9. Essex Feet of F. 12. Close R. 335 . 15. Cal . Ing . vii . 26 . Aids , vi . 607 . 


 
 
 XVII . 


 Eudes the sewer in 1086 held in demesne in Theydon ( Gernon ? ) , Essex , I hide and 40 acres . William son of Constantine held 2 hides and 40 acres in Theydon , which may have passed to this fee . ( See n . 15. ) 


 
 
 Sasselin held in demesne in Stantmere ' and Winthelle ' 2 hides and 30 acres , in Childerditch 1 hide and 30 acres , and in Bonhunt 2 hides . 


 
 
 C 


 
 
 Richard ( de Sauquevill , n . 41 ) held of Eudes the sewer in Rockland , Norfolk , 1 carucate , and Roland held of the same Eudes in Shropham 1 carucate ; the soc had belonged to the king's manor of Old Buckenham until Lisois ( de Moustiers ) had these lands . 


 The land in Norfolk belonged to the fee of Sauqueville . 


 
 
 In 1166 Ralph son of Peter son of Constantine held of Henry Fitz - Gerold the chamberlain 2 fees as of the fees late of Eudes the sewer.¹ Ralph Fitz - Peter granted to Ralph Gernun 81½ acres in the field of Bradfield , the service of Godfrey le Moyne and Richard Bataille and a marsh in Theydon , to hold for 8s . 4d . at a scutage of 208.2 In 1207 king John confirmed to Ralph Gernun the Essex hundred of Lexden which Matthew Mantel , sheriff of Essex , had rendered to him as his right and inheritance , and the gift which Ralph Fitz - Peter made to him of all his land in Theydon , in exchange 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 219] ===
 
 
 THEYDON GERNON , CHILDERDITCH 203 


 
 
 for Ralph's land in Foulmere , Cambs . , which gift Richard son and heir of the same Ralph Fitz - Peter and Warin Fitz - Gerold , lord of that fee , had confirmed to Ralph Gernun.³ That this grant com prised the whole of the above tenement is shewn by a writ to the sheriff of Essex in 1224 directing him to let Ralph Gernun have his scutage of 2 knights ' fees in his bailiwick of the fee late of Warin Fitz - Gerold , namely of 2 marks de scuto for the army of Bedford in which he had been with the king by his direction . In that year Cecily late wife of Richard Fitz - Ralph demanded of the tenant of a carucate in Childerditch her dower therein.5 


 
 
 In Feudal Cambridgeshire some account is given of the family of Gernon , from which it will be seen that in 1236-8 William Fitz Richard held fee in Foulmere of the barony of Richard de Mun fichet , and that in 1279 the heirs general of the same William held the same fee of Ralph Gernun ( of Theydon Gernon ) . To that account some addition may now be made . 


 6 


 Matthew Gernun attested the charter of William de Munfichet founding in 1134-5 the abbey of Stratford Langthorne , Essex , " to which monastery the same Matthew gave the land of Cowbridge , Essex , and Richard de Munfichet gave land in Foulmere , Cambs . , of the fee of Ralph Fitz - Urse.8 Ranulf Gernun , son of Matthew , held in 1166 of William de Munfichet fee of new feoffment , namely Top in Foulmere . Ralph son of Ranulf Gernun , born c . 1165 , was a knight and marshal of King John , to whom he firmly adhered all through that king's troubled reign . He continued to be a faithful servant of Henry III and died in extreme old age in 1247. A selec tion from the very numerous references to Ralph Gernun in the con temporary records is given below . 


 In 1200 John gave him the land of Bakewell , Derbys . , as 16 librates of land , for the service of one knight.10 ( See Peverel , n . 29. ) Three years later his service for this manor was granted to William Briwerre . 11 In 1204 he obtained the escheated land of Thomas Malesmain , a Norman , in West Compton , Berks . , and held it until its restoration in 1216.12 He was appointed in 1208 to arrest all foreign ships , save only those of Denmark and Norway , plying to the Lincolnshire ports.13 


 In 1212 he held in Essex 6 fees of the honor of Ongar , 14 and in Broxted 1 fee of the bishop of Ely.15 In 1214 his son was serving in Poitou and consequently Ralph had acquittance of scutage of the fees which he held of Richard de Ripariis in Essex.16 In 1215 he had a crown grant , which Henry confirmed in 1218 and 1224 , of 7 librates of rent in the soc of the hundred and a half of Sampford , Essex ; 17 Briwerre was directed to find him in necessary things as the third knight in Winchester castle while the war continued , 18 and to give him 40 librates of land of the king's enemies.19 He obtained Robert Gresley's great manor of Pirton , Oxon.20 In September he was appointed constable of Porchester castle , 21 and in December was with Richard Fitz - Hugh commissioned to convey many prisoners of war taken in Rochester castle to Wallingford castle.21a Next year he and Richard de Ripariis were envoys to the earls of Arundel and Warenne touching their disposition towards the king.22 His rent 


 
 
 9 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 220] ===
 
 
 204 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 in Colchester and 21 fees late of Luke de Brikesheved of Ralph's fee were secured to him 23 and , conditionally that he served the king during the continuance of the war with the barons himself and 2 other knights with 5 serjeants all well equipped , and gave his charter of fealty , he obtained the lands of Gilbert de Taney in Cambridge shire , Essex and Suffolk.24 If Falkes de Breauté approved , he was to permit Ralph to have the custody of the honor of Eye for the king's profit.25 Ralph also obtained the land of William de la Ferte , deceased , the king's bailee , in Marden , Wilts . , and the land of Thomas Mauduit , king's enemy , in Warminster , Wilts . , 26 which grant was confirmed by Henry III in the following year ( 1217 ) ; but Marden was the subject of a plea in 1218,28 and was taken from Ralph in 1229 . 


 27 


 
 
 In 1217 Ralph obtained a grant during pleasure of the land of Adam Maulveisin in Bergholt and Husland , Suff . 29 Next year he was a justice in eyre in Norfolk , Suffolk , Essex and Herts.30 In October 1220 he was sent as a messenger to Poitou , sailing from Dover , apparently to escort the king's sister Joan from Poitou 31 to Wallingford castle.32 He was one of the king's council in that year in respect to the agreement then made between Henry and Beren garia , relict of Richard I , in respect of her dower and arrears thereof.3 In 1221 he and John Russel were appointed constables of Corfe castle , he having a livery of 100 marks a year , and during the period 1221-26 there are about 30 writs mainly directed to Ralph touching the disposal of munitions and prisoners there.34 In 1223 he had acquittance ( of 6 marks ? ) of the scutage of Biham , in regard that he had been at that time on the king's service in Poitou.35 In 1225 he was directed to transmit to Portsmouth 10 good balistæ and 10,000 quarrels for delivery on board the king's great ship shortly to sail for Gascony ; previously he had delivered 5 defective balistæde cornu , ' two of 2 feet and three of one foot.36 Two years later he was pardoned 20s . which had been demanded by the exchequer for an assart to be made in Theydon , Essex , in the time of John , which assart he had not made.3 


 37 


 
 
 33 


 
 
 In 1228 Henry gave him the land late of Roger de Planes in Easthorpe and Birch , Essex , which Ralph had previously held of the bail of king John , to hold for the service of 3 fees . He also con firmed John's grant of Bakewell , Derbys.38 Two years later , by reason of infirmity , Ralph had permission to return to England from over seas.39 In 1231 he had a royal gift of 10 oaks for restoring his stockade ( bretaschia ) of Gerner , Essex ( ' Gernunera ' ) , which had been destroyed by fire.40 In 1234 the king confirmed to the prior and canons of St. John the Evangelist of Leighs , Essex , 12 marks of rent in the hundred and a half of Samford and in the hundreds of Claydon and Bosmere , Suff . , which Adam Malveisin had of the bail of king John and Ralph Gernun , as heir of Adam and after Adam's death , had of the goodwill of king John , and had since resigned to the king to the use of the said prior and canons.41 In the same year Ralph was constable of Colchester castle , 42 which office he retained until 1236. His resignation of that office was one of the last official acts of a long career , more than 30 years of which had been employed 


 
 
 : 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 221] ===
 
 
 THEYDON GERNON , CHILDERDITCH 205 


 
 
 in service to the crown . In 1244 his son William recovered possession of a carucate in West Compton , Berks . , which Ralph his father had previously recovered against John Malemeyns and given to his said son.43 


 
 
 In 1236 ( ? ) Ralph Gernon held of Margery de Rivers 2 fees in Theydon Gernon , Childerditch , Bonhunt and ' Windhull . ' 44 He died in 1247 , when his son William Gernun gave 50 marks for relief of his inheritance.4 45 The inquest taken after his death shows that he held the manor of Theydon Gernon of Margery de Rivers for 1 fee and land there of the heirs of Ongar for fee ; Leighs manor held of the same heirs for fee ; Easthorpe and Birch manors of the king for 3 fees ; La Gernunere ( tenure unspecified ) , and Lexden hundred of the king at farm ; William his son was aged more than 60 years.46 


 
 
 William Gernun died towards the end of 1258 , holding of Baldwin de L'Isle 2 fees in Theydon and elsewhere , and fee there of dame Denise de Munchenesy , besides other lands ; Ralph his son was aged 30 or more , ¹7 and had livery in due course.48 This Sir Ralph Gernun was of the Montfort party , his estates being seized in 1265 . Theydon ' Gernun ' township was worth £ 16 ; John de Ripariis had taken the Michaelmas rent because Ralph had denied service and did not claim to hold the manor of him ; his manors of Easthorpe and Birch and that of La Gernunere were also seized.49 From the High Peak it was presented that Imbert Gey seized the manor of Bakewell , late of Ralph Gernun , who escaped from Kenilworth , but was there ( as the jury believed ! ) by the king's command ; it was worth £ 50 a year.50 Ralph was pardoned in 1267 by the mainprise of William la Zuche and Richard de Havering of Essex . 51 In 1268 , perhaps under constraint , he made a lease of the manor of Bakewell to Eleanor , consort of Edward the king's son . 


 52 


 Sir Ralph was twice married , his first wife being Eleanor daughter of Robert de Vere , earl of Oxford ; and his second wife . Hawise ( Tregoz ? ) . 53 He died in 1274 , having previously ( namely in 1271 ) given the manor of Theydon for 1 fee to his younger son John , 54 by Hawise his wife , whose guardian was in 1273 Richard Baynard ; the manor of La Gernunere was held of Sir John le Bretun for fee ; William his son and heir was aged 24 years . 55 ( See Chester , n . 103. ) In 1293 John Gernun was one of 4 nephews and coheirs of Nicholas Tregoz of Tolleshunt Tregoz ( now Darcy ) , and was said to be aged 23 at Michaelmas 1292 . 


 56 


 John Gernun and his coparceners held in 1302-3 lands in Tolles hunt Tregoz ; 57 he died in 1321 , leaving William his son aged 171 years . John's half - brother William died in January 1327 , leaving a son and heir , John , aged 30 and more . This William had held of Aymer de Valence , earl of Pembroke , in 1324 in Theydon , Leighs and Latchingdon 44 fees , and the lady of Theydon had held similarly 


 58 


 3 


 fee in Theydon.59 In 1326 Adam de Welle , a minor , was found to be next heir of Joan , late wife of Walter Fitz - Robert , of the manor of Theydon Gernon , held of William Gernon . 60 Adam de Welle died in 1345 , having in his lifetime demised all his lands in Essex to John his son and Matilda his wife ; he held the manor of Theydon Gernon 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 222] ===
 
 
 206 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 of Thomas Gernon at a small rent ; his said son was aged 10 or 12 years . 


 61 


 John son of John Gernoun , knt . , demised in 1334 the bailiwick of the hundred of Lexden for three years ; 62 and in the same year William Gernoun and Isabel his wife and Ralph their son are named in the remainder of John de Goldingham's manor of Chigwell . 63 Isabel was a widow in 1340. 64 The grant of Chigwell does not seem to have become effective , but from a deed of 1354 it appears that William was a younger son of the William who died in 1327 and that he had had the manor of Theydon from his father ; by the deed referred to John son and heir of John Gernon , knt . , son of William Gernon , knt . , confirmed to Thomas son of the younger William and to Lucy his wife and their issue the manor of Theydon with the advowson of the church.65 In 1368 John de Stokesby and his wife held of Robert de L'Isle 2 fees in Theydon , Bonhunt , Willedon ' and elsewhere , late ( 1346 ) of William Gernon.66 


 In 1401-2 Roger Walden , clerk , held the manor of Bonhunt and Thomas Gernon the manor of Theydon Gernon for 2 fees of the honor late of Robert de L'Isle there and in Wyken ( ' Wylden ' ) and elsewhere.67 


 
 
 The land in Rockland , Norf . , appears to have been alienated from this honor like the residue of the fee of Richard de Sauquevill ( n . 41 ) . 


 In 1217 Roger de Rokelund had a writ of reseisin of land in Essex . 68 In the following year Hugh de Marines and Hawise his wife had a writ of attaint of jurors against Roger de Rokelund touching their free tenement in Broxted . 69 In 1227 they put in their claim in a fine of land in that place ( ' Brokesheved ' ) between Ellis the marshal and Rohaise his wife and William de Rokelund . 70 In 1230 Richard le Prestre was demandant against Ralph Gernun offee in Rockland , Norf . , which William de Rokelund held , fee in Shropham , Norf . , which Richard de Cauz held , fee in Steeple , Essex , which the heirs of Robert Mauntel held , fee in Knipsho ( in Mayland ) , Essex , which the same heirs held , fee in Steeple , which demandant held , and fee in Wall ( in Bradwell - on - Sea ) , Essex , which Felicia Mauntel held in dower ; for an assurance to him of the two last - named tenements the demandant quitclaimed the residue to Ralph Gernun , saving to William , Richard and the heirs of Robert Mauntel their tenements.71 


 1 


 4 


 
 
 In 1242-3 William son of Roger ( de Rokelund ) held fee in Rockland of the lady of Ongar and Richard de Cauz held fee in Shropham of the same lady . 72 John de Rokelund was named in 1275 as of Rockland.73 In 1302 Robert de Benelond and Isabel de Cally held fee in Rockland of William Gernun and Roger de Cauz held ½ fee in Shropham of the same William . 74 In 1346 Geoffrey de Benelond and another held the fee in Rockland of John Gernoun , who held of the lady of Pembroke , and Richard Cauz held the fee in Shropham of the same John.75 ( See Chester , n . 103. ) 


 
 
 2. Essex Feet of F. 23. 3. R. Chart . 1716. 4. R. Lit. 5. Essex Feet of F. 66. 6. Op . cit . 218-9 . 7. Mon. 8. Ibid . 588 . 9. Red Bk . 351 . 10. R. Chart . 50b . 198 bis . 12. R. Lit. Claus . i . 55 , 776. 13. R. Lit. Pat . 84 . 


 
 
 1. Red Bk . 355 . Claus . i . 618 , 643 . Angl . v . 587b . 11. Ibid . 110 , 123 , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 223] ===
 
 
 HENLEY - KNEBWORTH , CLAPTON 207 


 
 
 17. Ibid . 


 14. Red Bk . 612. 15. Ibid . 525. 16. R. Lit. Claus . i . 176b - 7 . 226 , 3226. 18. Ibid . 228. 19. Ibid . 234b . 20. Ibid.241 . 21. R. Lit. Pat . 155b . 21a . Ibid . 161b . 22. Ibid . 187. 23. R. Lit. Claus.i . 263b . 24. Ibid . 265b , 270b . 25. Ibid . 268. 26. Ibid . 277 , 285. 27. Ibid . 315. 28. Ibid . 336 , 380 . 29. Ibid . 347b . 30. Pat . R. 208. 31. R. Lit. Claus . i . 432 , 4586. 32. Ibid . 4596. Cf. Pat . R. 255. 33. Pat . R. 265. 34. R. Lit. Claus . i . 460 , 469 , 584b . et pass . 35. Ibid . 548 ; ii . 144b . 36. Ibid . ii . 51b ; Pat . R. 540. 37. R. Lit. Claus . ii . 167b . 38. Close R. 46. 39. Ibid . 448. 40. Ibid . 513. 41. Ibid . 395 . 42. Ibid . 499 . 43. Ibid . 189. 44. Bk . of Fees , 608 , 477. 45. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 23 . 46. Cal . Ing . i . 292. 47. Ibid . 121. 48. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 292 . 49. Cal . Misc . Ing . i . 200 , 206. 50. Ibid . 196 . 51. Cal . Pat . R. 150 , 153 . 52. Ibid . 213 . 53. Staffs . Collect . , N.S. , i . 257. 54. Essex Feet of F. 273. 55. Cal . Inq . ii . 44 ; Cal . Fine R. i . 35. 56. Abbrev . 57. Feud . Aids , ii . 131. 58. Cal . Ing . vi . 175 , 478. 59. Ibid . 332. 60. Ibid . 453 . 61. Ibid . viii . 433 . 62. Cat . Anct . D. vi . C. 5369 . 63. Ibid . i . B. 963. 64. Cal . Close R. 489. 65. Ibid . 80 , 81. 66. Ibid . 495. 67. Feud . Aids , vi . 607. 68. R. Lit. Claus . i . 339b . 69. Excerpt . Fin . i . 23. 70. Essex Feet of F. 82. 71. Ibid . 90. 72. Bk . of Fees , 912 . 73. R. Hund , i . 522. 74. Feud . Aids , iii . 422 . 


 Plac . 232 . 


 75 . 


 Ibid . 550 . 


 
 
 XVII ( 1 ) . 


 Eudes the sewer in 1086 held in demesne of Roger de Aubervill ( ‘ Oburvilla ' ) in Henley , Suff . , 2 carucates . 


 
 
 It is probable that this land afterwards fell to the honor of Ongar . In 1242-3 William de Henleye held 1 fee in Henley of that honor.1 Hubert de Henleye held fee here in 1303 of John de Cleydon , and in 1346 William de Henleye held it.2 


 1. Bk . of Fees , 915. 2. Feud . Aids , v . 26 , 51 . 


 
 
 XVIII . 


 Humphrey ( de Anslevill ) held of Eudes the sewer ( 1086 ) in Knebworth , Herts . , 8 hides and I virgate , and in Hertford hundred 


 
 
 hide . In Cambridgeshire the same Humphrey held of Eudes in Clapton 1 hide , in East Hatley 1 hide and 1 virgate , in Croydon 2 hides , in Wimpole I hide and 1 virgate and in Kingston 10 acres . 


 In 1086 Humphrey de Anslevill or Anlevill was one of the jurors of Armingford hundred.¹ Ansleville has been identified as Anne ville - en - Saire , Manche . In 1166 Thomas de Andevill held of Henry Fitz - Gerold the chamberlain 6 fees as of the fees of Eudes the sewer.2 Richard de Anevill attested a charter of William earl of Devon ( 1193-1217 ) .3 


 
 
 Ι 


 In 1198 in a plea of surplusage of dower of Alice wife of Hamelin de Andevill , the said Hamelin and his wife released to John de Bassingeburn and Aubreye his wife their land in Kelshall , Sandon and Woodhall and I hide called Nieweham in the vill of Hatfield and the reversion of Alice's land in those places . In 1199 Hamelin de Andevill was a visor in a Cambridgeshire plea.5 John de Andevill and Hamelin de Andevill were of Hertfordshire and Cambridgeshire in 1200.6 In 1206 the same Hamelin acknowledged that fee in Sheford , Berks . , was the right of Henry , son of William , to be held of Hamelin and his heirs . " 


 In 1213 Hamelin de Andevill claimed the presentation to the 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 224] ===
 
 
 208 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 church of Knebworth against Richard de Andevill , clerk . The defendant , a brother of the plaintiff , said that his father Thomas gave him the presentation after the death of the then incumbent Richard the Young , who was a canon of St. Paul's , and produced the deed . In reply the plaintiff said his father had a long illness and if he did make such a charter it was at that time ; and besides , the mother could have sealed the charter for her son Richard , whom she loved more . The advowson of that church was the caput of his honor and without it he could not have seisin . The defendant said his father made the deed when in good health and appealed to the witnesses whose names were on it . Finally it was decided that Richard should have the next presentation , but for that turn only . In 1214 Richard son of Thomas de Andevill was party to a fine of land in Knebworth ; 9 and in the same year he settled the advowson of the church of Knebworth on Hamelin de Andevill.10 In 121 1215 the sheriffs of Hertford , Cambridge and Berkshire were directed to give seisin to Hugh de Bathonia , clerk , of the whole land , apparently including Knebworth , late of Hamon de Ablevill ( sic ) , to hold during pleasure.11 


 8 


 
 
 In 1217 Hamelin had writs of reseisin directed to the sheriffs of Cambridge and Hertford.12 He or his ancestor gave to St. Alban's the church of Eversden , which was confirmed to the monastery in 1218.13 In 1224 the king gave to earl William Marshal the timber that Falkes de Breauté had caused to be felled at Knebworth , for the erection of the earl's chamber.14 Contemporary with Hamelin were Ralph de Aundevill , forester of Feckenham , Worcs . , and Richard his younger brother , sons of Agnes de Aundevill , 15 and John de Aundevill , tenant of land in Dunham , Essex , who abjured the realm in 1236.16 Richard de Andevill held in 1236 ( ? ) of Margery de Rivers 6 fees in Knebworth , Clapton and Wimpole ; 17 in 1236-8 he held 1 fee in Clapton with 1 virgate in East Hatley and I hide in Croydon , Cambs . , of the barony of Warin Fitz - Gerold , 18 and I fee in Eversden of 5 hides of the fee of Wiscard Leydet.19 He also held in Barton of the same fee , and I fee in Wimpole of the barony of Warin Fitz - Gerold , which Henry de Childerley held of him ; 20 Alexander de Andevill held 2 hides in Clapton , Cambs.21 In 1242-3 Richard de Aundevill and Roger Gulafre held 2 fees in Pudlicot and Sarsden of Margery de Rivers of the fee of the earl of the Isle ( of Wight ) , 22 late of the fee of Curcy . See Curcy , n . 4 . In Clapton and Wimpole he held 1 fee of the barony of Warin Fitz - Gerold.23 In 1241 Richard de Andevill and Clemency his wife recovered land in Chilson in the hundred of Chadlington , Oxon.24 In 1267 Isabel countess of Albemarle released to Margaret countess of Devon 5 fees in Knebworth and 1 fee in Clapton of this honor.25 


 In 1267 Alexander de Aundevill had licence for life to hunt the hare , fox , badger and cat throughout the royal forests in Oxford shire . 26 In 1276 he held , as his ancestors had held before him , view of frankpledge and assize of bread and ale in the hundred of Armingford.27 In 1279 a knight's fee in Barton , Cambs . , was held of the heirs of Alexander de Aundevill , who held of the barony of Ledet ; 28 and the same heirs held the manor of Pudlicot , Oxon . , of 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 225] ===
 
 
 KNEBWORTH , CLAPTON 209 


 
 
 Adam de Stratton for I fee of the countess of Albemarle ( Curcy , n . 4 ) .29 Land in Stanbridge by Romsey , Hants . , was held of the fee of Alexander de Aundevill in 1267.30 His heirs general appear to have been William de Bereford , Robert de Hoo , and John son of Geoffrey de Picheford . 


 
 
 Thus a third part of the tenement came to the possession of Sir William de Bereford , justice of the Common Pleas from 1309. A messuage in Clapton was held of him in 1306,31 and in 1302-3 he held 1 fee in Hatley , Clapton and Croydon of the fee formerly of Warin Fitz - Gerold.32 In 1316 he was one of the lords of Clapton and Hatley , 33 and in 1322 Nicholas de Segrave held of him 1 fee in Wimpole.34 He died in 1326 holding the manor of Clapton with the advowson of the church of Robert de L'Isle , as of the said Robert's pourparty of the earldom of Aumale , for fee ; Edmund his son was aged 30 and more.35 In 1346 the said Edmund held I fee in Hatley , Clapton and Croydon.³ 


 36 


 Another third part passed to the family of Hoo , for in 1292 Robert de Hoo had a grant of market and fair at his manor of Clapton , a yearly fair at his manor of Knebworth , Herts . , and free warren in Knebworth and Harpenden , Herts . , Luton Hoo , Stopsley and Maulden , Beds . , Eversden and Clapton , Cambs . , and Sibford , Oxon.37 In 1299 he held the manor of Clapton with certain liberties ( and land in Eversden of the honor of Wardon ) of the inheritance of Beatrice his wife.38 The descent from Robert and Beatrice to their daughter Joan and her husband Richard de Perers and from their grandson to Walter de Mauny is described in the Victoria County History of Hertfordshire ( iii . 114b ) . In 1303 Robert de Hoo held I fee in Knebworth and Three Houses ( Trehus ' ) of the earl of Aumale.39 


 
 
 In 1335 Richard de Perers died seised of the manor of Knebworth , which he held by knight's service of Robert de L'Isle , lord of Coveney ; 40 and in 1346 Walter de Mauny and Thomas de Hoo held I fee in Knebworth of John de L'Isle , late held of the earl of Aumale.41 The other third part passed to John son of Geoffrey Pycheford , who in 1302-3 held 1 fee in Wimpole of the king and was one of the lords of Wimpole in 1316.42 In 1346 Ralph de Wyndesores and his parceners held 1 fee of the king in Wimpole.43 


 I 


 I 


 In 1368 Walter de Mauny , lord of Chepstow , held the tenements in Knebworth , late of Richard de Perers , of Robert de L'Isle for I fee ; Baldwin de Bereford , knt . , held similarly the manor of Clapton for I fee ; Hugh de Clyderhowe , knt . , held the manor late of Ralph de Wyndesores in Wimpole for I fee.44 


 Ι 


 In 1401-2 , of the honor of L'Isle , Richard Forester held the manor of Knebworth for I fee , which Walter de Mauny lately held ; 45 the manor of Clapton , Cambs . , was in the hands of Thomas Haselden for 1 fee and the heir of Hugh de Cliderhowe held 1 fee in Wimpole.46 


 I 


 
 
 2. Red Bk . 355 . 


 1. Feud . Cambridgeshire , I. vi . 1041 . 4. Feet of F. ( Pipe R. Soc . xxiii . ) 115 . 18 , 113. 6. Ibid . iii . pass . 7. Berks . Feet of F. 140 . Regis R. 58 , m . 4d . 9. Feet of F. Herts . 16 Jno . n . 131 . 


 
 
 3. Mon. Anglic . 


 5. R. Cur . Reg . ii . 


 
 
 8. Curia 10. Ibid . 


 
 
 III . P 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 226] ===
 
 
 210 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 12. Ibid . 329 . 


 14. R. Lit. Claus . i . 611b . 17. Bk . of Fees , 608 , 480 . 20. Ibid . 252. 21. Ibid . 12 . 


 
 
 11. R. Lit. Claus . i . 242b . R. Hund . ii . 5126 . 16. Ibid . 299 . 


 19. Ibid . 169 . 354b . 


 97. Cf. Cat . of Anct . D. iii . A. 5118 . 


 ii . 563b . 29. Ibid . 731. 30. Cal . Inquis . i . 203 . 


 32. Feud . Aids , i . 150 , 171 . 33. Ibid . 156 . 36. Feud . Aids , i . 171 . 


 37 . 


 35. Ibid . 470 . 


 38. Plac . de quo war . 103. 39. Feud . Aids , ii . 430 . 


 42. Ibid . i . 146 , 153 . 


 41. Feud . Aids , ii . 437 . Close R. 495-6 . Cf. Feud . Aids , vi . 590 , 607 . 46. Ibid . 590 . 


 
 
 24. Abbrev . Placit . 116 . 


 
 
 13. Mon. Angl . ii . 232b ; 15. Excerpt . Fin . i . 321 . 18. Lib . de Bernewelle , 12 . 22. Testa , 106. 23. Ibid . 26. Cal . Pat . R. 28. Ibid . 31. Cal . Inq . iv . 250 . 34. Cal . Ing . vi . 187 . Cal . Chart . R. ii . 421 . 40. Cal . Inq . vii . 453 . 43. Ibid . 164. 44. Cal . 45. Feud . Aids , vi . 607 . 


 
 
 25. Ibid . 160 . 27. R. Hund . i . 51 . 


 
 
 XIX . 


 It is suggested that the knight's fee which William de Archesdene held in 1166 of Henry Fitz - Gerold the chamberlain , as of the fees of Eudes the sewer , ¹ formed part of the tenements described at n . 5 . 


 An unidentified tenement is that for which William Flambard rendered mark to the aid levied in 1235-6 in respect of fee in Essex.2 Two entries relate to this family but neither indicates where his fee lay . In 1199 William Flambard was attorney for Thomas de Menelli or Meuli , vouched to warranty by William de Rocheford against Alan son of Ogger in a plea of land in Essex.³ Land in Tendring was named Flambard's land . In 1248 William Flaumbard and Alice his wife recovered a yearly rent due to Alice of 20s . from the Hospitallers.4 William Flambard attested charters . of the Anesti family of Bracking.5 


 Another name of a contributor to the aid of 1235-6 of the fee of Margery de Rivers whose holding has not been identified was Matthew le Breton , who paid 1 mark for fee . Possibly both of these tenements were in the fee of Helyon . 


 
 
 1. Red Bk . 355 . 2. Bk . of Fees , 480. 3. Cur . Reg . R. ii . 3 , 102¸ 4. Essex Feet of F. 170. 5. Cat . of Anct . D. i . A.1005 etc. 6. Bk . of Fees , 480 


 
 
 XX . 


 The bishop of Bayeux held in Tolleshunt , Essex , I hide in 1086 . Roger ' God save the Ladies ' held in Great Baddow 1 hide . In Sussex the bishop of Bayeux had 24 acres in Wenham and Roger Bigod held of the bishop 1 carucate there . See n . 23 below . 


 
 
 In 1166 Thomas de Mandevill held 2 fees of Henry Fitz - Gerold the chamberlain , as of the fees of Eudes the sewer.¹ One Thomas de Mandevill , son of Ralph de Mandevill , confirmed to St. John's , Colchester , land in Erpeford given by his father . " Eustace de Oeys , son of Henry de Merc , quitclaimed to the monks of St. John's his right in East Duniland , Essex , ³ in which place John de Merc held land in 1212. Aitrope de Merc was amerced in Essex or Herts . in 1177 for forest trespass . It is suggested that Aitrop de Merc was the successor of Thomas de Mandevill on this honor ; he married Petronilla de Mandevill . In 1189 tithes of the fee of Thomas de Mandevill were confirmed to St. Botolph's , Colchester . Thomas de 


 4 


 6 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 227] ===
 
 
 TOLLESHUNT , GT . BADDOW 2II 


 
 
 7 


 Mandevill also held in 1166 of Geoffrey earl of Essex 4 fees in Tey Marks alias Tey Mandeville . It is quite undetermined whether or not Glanvill held of Fitz - Gerold the lands in Great Baddow described at the head of this section . 


 
 
 In 1194 Hugh Peverel sought to have a plea of warranty of charter in the court of the honor of Boulogne which was between Aitrop de Merc and Simon de Merc.9 In the same year Henry de Merc obtained judgment against William de Scalers and an order that William should deliver to the said Henry the chattels of Atrop de Merc , father of Henry.10 Atrop or Eitrop de Merc died in 1200 , when Henry de Merc and James de Merc son of Ralph , a minor , were heirs to land in Wratling late held by the said Atrop of William de Scalers.11 In 1201 Simon de Merc held 2 fees , John de Merc 2 fees and Henry de Merc 3 fees of the honor of Boulogne in Essex.12 In 1216 the constable of Bedford was directed to deliver to Henry de Merc the nephew of William de Merc with his horse and harness , to be sent to the king.13 In the ensuing year Henry de Merc had writs of reseisin directed to the sheriffs of Suffolk , Cambs . and Essex , 14 and in 1223 he was a commissioner in Essex for the sale of windfallen wood belonging to the crown.15 Henry de Merc con firmed to Walden a rent of 2s . from Little Bardfield given by his father Aitrop , the deed being attested by Richard archdeacon of Colchester and William de Merc.16 In 1226 Henry de Merc acknow ledged the right of John prior of St. Bartholomew's , London , in I carucate in Shortgrave ( in Newport ) , Essex , as of the gift of his father , Aitrop de Merc.17 This land was held in 1086 of Eustace count of Boulogne by Adelolf de Merc . 


 Henry died about Christmas 1233 , and at Easter following his son and heir Ralph Merk had seisin of his father's lands in Bardfield and Latton on the honor of Boulogne and gave £ 15 for his relief.18 Shortly afterwards Ralph was forced to resign the manor of Latton to Rohaise late wife of Henry de Merc , who had endowed her of the same at marriage.19 A year later Ralph died and was succeeded by his brother Henry , who had livery and gave security for £ 15 relief for 3 fees which he held of the honor of Boulogne in Essex.20 Later in the year 1234 Margery de Rivers was impleading the same Ralph touching customs and services which she demanded of him for the free tenement which he held of her in Wenham , Flowton , Tolleshunt and Baddow.21 


 
 
 23 


 In 1236 ( ? ) Henry de Merc held of the said Margery 3 fees in the 4 places last named.22 In 1235-6 William de Badewe contributed 2 marks to the aid in respect of 1 fee held of Margery de Rivers.2 In 1238 Gerard prior of St. Bartholomew's , London , quitclaimed to Henry de Merk the advowson of the church of Little Bardfield saving the ancient and due pension.24 In 1242-3 Robert de Vallibus held of Margaret de Rivers fee in Wenham ; 25 but she held it of the honor of Bigod.26 In 1242 Henry de Merc's knights were required to pay scutage , but Henry was only required to pay in respect of his demesne.27 He died in 1259 , when custody of his land and marriage of the heir was granted to Roger de Thurkelby.28 His son Henry de Merk , by Rohaise his wife , was of age in 1268,29 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 228] ===
 
 
 212 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 1 


 but died without issue two years later , when it was found that he had a sister named Rohaise who was seized in Tey ' Mandeville ' church in the time of the late war by Sir Geoffrey Dinaunt and had by him a daughter named Aubreye or Alda , who was 2 years old . in June 1270 ; it was not known if Sir Geoffrey married Rohaise or not , but if he did so before the birth of Aubreye she would be heir of the said Henry de Merk ; if not , Andrew de Merk , his uncle , aged 40 , would be his heir.30 At the end of 1276 the manor of Little Bardfield was committed to the king's bailee during pleasure so that Andrew de Merk , who was of unsound mind , should be main tained out of the issues.31 Earlier in the year Alda daughter of Geoffrey Dinaunt died and Andrew de Merk , aged 61 , was found to be her next heir.32 He was living in 1286.33 


 
 
 This tenement has not been traced to any later date . It seems probable that it eventually escheated to the chief lord and the undertenants held directly of him . Possibly the family of Hole broke had the land in Wenham . In 1301 Thomas son of Ralph de Merk obtained from Ralph de Merk , no doubt his father , acknow ledgment of his right in a messuage and land in Great Dunmow , which Ralph was to hold for life.34 


 141414 


 In 1303 the manor of Little Bardfield was held by a custodian at farm until the full age of Thomas son and heir of Andrew de Merk , then in ward of the king , held of the honor of Boulogne for 3 fees.35 Juliana de Merk held fee in Raydon of the earl of Here ford.36 Thomas died in 1310 , when wardship of his land and of that of Lora his wife , in case she died during the minority of the heirs , with the marriage of the heirs , was granted to Ralph de Monthermer.37 In 1324-5 a fine of the manor of Raydon by Shelley , Suff . , was levied between Robert de Welle and Lora his wife and Ralph son of Thomas de Merk.38 In 1346 John de Ash and Adam de Erdale held the manor of Little Bardfield for 3 fees , 39 and Lora Belet held fee in Raydon.40 


 
 
 1. Red Bk . 355 . 23 Hen . II , 153 . 7. Red Bk . 345. 8 . 


 2. Colchester Chartul . 171 . 5. Cotton ch . xxvii . 96 . 


 3. Ibid . 37. 4. Pipe R. 6. Mon. Angl . vi . 106 . 


 Cal . Ing . i . 297. 9. R. Cur . Reg . i . 48. 10. Ibid . 


 I29 . 


 11. Ibid . iii . 205 . 12. R. de Oblat . 162 ; R. Cancel . 160. Cf. Red Bk . 575 , 578-9 . 13. R. Lit. Claus . i . 245-6 . 14. Ibid . 325b . Cf. Bk . of Fees , 241 . 15. Pat . R. 400 . 16. Walden Chartulary , Harl . 3697 , f . 237d . 17. Essex Feet of F. 71 . 18. Excerpt . Fin . i . 255 . 19. Close R. 426. 20. Excerpt . Fin . i . 279 . 21. Close R. 155. 22. Bk . of Fees , 608. 23. Ibid . 480. 24. Essex Feet of F. 122. 25. Testa , 290b . 26. Feud . Aids , v . 24. 27. Close R. 469. 28. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 306. 29. Cal . Ing . i . 209 , 297 ; iii . 509 . 30. Ibid . i . 237. 31. Cal . Fine R. i . 76 ; Cal . Close R. 1285 , p . 343. 32. Cal . Ing . ii . 102. 33. Ibid . 359 ; Placit . de quo war . pass . 34. Essex F. of Fines , 29 Edw . I ( 59/109 ) . 35 Feud . Aids , ii . 147 . 36. Ibid . v . 25 . 37. Cal . Fine R. ii . 240 . 38. Suffolk Feet of F. 155. 39. Feud . Aids , ii . 176. 40. Ibid . v . 49 . 


 
 
 XXI . 


 
 
 For Layer Breton see n . 15 . 


 It is assumed that this was the tenement held in 1166 by William son of Richard of Henry Fitz - Gerold for fee , as of the fees of Eudes 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 229] ===
 
 
 LAYER - DUNMOW 213 


 
 
 the sewer.¹ It was possibly this tenant who , as William de Hanleia , gave to St. John's , Colchester , land in Layer , for the souls of Warin Fitz - Gerold and Henry his brother , 2 and held of the last named in 1166 in Sevenhampton , Wilts . , I fee . In 1204 Geoffrey Gernun quitclaimed to William de Hanlege fee in Layer.3 In 1236 ( ? ) William de Haunle held of Margery de Rivers fee in Layer . This or another William de Haunlegh of Suffolk was deceased in 1258 , when Sarra his relict acquired a writ.5 


 4 


 6 


 Another tenement in Layer was in 1235 released to Thomas de Ingaldestorp and Isabel his wife and the heirs of Isabel by Alexander Fitz - Richard , and in 1235-6 the same Thomas contributed to the aid in respect of I fee which he held of Margery de Rivers in an unspecified place . " In 1240 Thomas de Ingoldesthorpe and Isabel his wife assured to Hasculf prior of St. Botolph's , Colchester , 2 carucates in Layer to be held of Thomas and Isabel and the heirs of Isabel in free alms for 7 marks yearly rent ; the prior quitclaimed to them I mark of rent of the gift of Hamon le Envaise in Coddenham , Suff . Ten years earlier , namely in 1230 , Thomas and Isabel were instituting a plea against Hamon le Envaise touching a tenement in Essex.9 In 1238 the same or another Thomas , who had served frequently as a special justice and warden of the king's castles in Norfolk , had exemption for a year , and in 1249 for life , from being put on assizes and the like.10 He died in 1252 , holding land in Colne , Essex , of his wife's inheritance ; custody of his land and heirs and their marriage and that of Isabel his relict were granted for £ 120 to Peter Chaceporc the treasurer.11 The deceased had land in Hil lington , Norf.12 Thomas his son and heir was aged 16 years ; Isabel his mother was daughter of Hamon le Envaise.13 This was not the same line as those of Ingoldisthorpe and Snettisham , Norf . See Warenne , n . 41 . 


 No further trace of these tenements has been discovered . As the manor in White Colne , known as Ingledesthorp , olim Ingaldes thorpe , reverted to the family of Le Envaise , as shewn by Morant , 14 it is reasonable to assume that the line of Ingoldesthorpe failed some time after 1252 . 


 
 
 1. Red Bk . 355 . 2. Colchester Chartul . 225 . 3. Essex Feet of F. 34 . 4. Bk . of Fees , 608. 5. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 275. 6. Essex Feet of F. 98 . 7. Bk . of Fees , 477 , 480 . 8. Essex Feet of F. 139 . 9. Excerpt . Fin . i . 207 . 10. Cal . Pat . R. 223 ; 1247-58 , p . 51. 11. Ibid . 132 , 134 ; Excerpt . Fin . ii . 126. 12. Cal . Pat . R. 160 , 199 . 13. Cal . Inquis . i . 59. 14. Hist . of Essex , ii . 216 . 


 
 
 XXII . 


 Ralph ( de Bernieres ) held of Eudes the sewer in 1086 in Dunmow 75 acres . 


 
 
 C 


 William de Berneres attested about the end of the 11th cen tury the charter of Robert Fitz - Hugh , to St. Werburgh's abbey , Chester , which is preserved in the instrument Sanctorum prisca . Ralph de Berners attested a charter of Geoffrey de Mandevill , earl of Essex , in favour of Waverley abbey , which was addressed 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 230] ===
 
 
 214 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 to archbishop Theobald , and Henry bishop of Winchester , and was of the date 1155-58.2 


 In 1166 Ralph de Berners held of Henry Fitz - Gerold the cham berlain fee as of the fees of Eudes the sewer.³ He also held 4 fees of Geoffrey earl of Essex , ª 2 fees of Nigel bishop of Ely in Street hall , Essex , 5 and fee of the bishop of London . In 1190 Ralph de Berners held 1 fee of Robert de Helion's fee . " 


 8 


 9 


 In 1177 William de Berners ( de Berneriis ) owed 5 marks for the right against William de Mareigni of two knights ' fees in Essex or Herts . From the Essex Assize Roll of 1198 we learn that William de Berneres was of Barnston , Essex ( Barleston ' ) . It would appear therefore that he was the successor of Ralph of 1166 , and was deceased in 1220. See below . Possibly William had younger brothers , for in 1195 an assize came to recognize if Pain Burnel , maternal uncle of Ralph de Bernieres , was seised at death of I virgate in Hillcot , Wilts . , and if Ralph was his heir , which land Henry de Berniers then held ; the verdict was that Pain did not die in seisin , and judgment was given for Henry.10 William de Berners and Ralph de Berners attested a charter of Geoffrey de Say to Walden abbey.11 


 
 
 In 1195 a day was given to Robert de Berners 12 and Simon son of Simon of a plea of £ 4 , which the same Simon gave to Ralph de Berners with Isabel his daughter , towards which Simon had given Ralph 40s . of rent from the manor of Ginges.13 In 1212 the sheriff of Essex was directed to give Ralph de Berners the younger seisin of 2 fees in Streethall which Ralph de Berners , uncle of the said Ralph , held of him ( and he held of the bishop of Ely ) , in case he had crossed the seas in the king's service to Poitou and held no other fee for which he ought to cross the seas and that the said Ralph his uncle did not wish to go over seas for him.14 Two months later the sheriff was directed to commit to Geoffrey Fitz - Piers , earl of Essex , the land of Ralph de Berners his knight in Streethall which had been delivered by the king's precept to Ralph Berners the younger , for default of service , as Ralph said.15 


 In 1217 the younger Ralph , having returned to allegiance to Henry III , had writs of reseisin to the sheriffs of Norfolk , Suffolk and Essex.16 In 1220 an agreement was made between Beatrice late wife of William de Berners and Ralph de Berners touching her dower in the manors of Roding , Barnston and Berwick Berners and in the vills of Islington , Midd . , and Icklingham , Suff . , by which Ralph gave to his brother William de Berners and his heirs the manor of Islington for fee ; to the same Beatrice he granted the manor of Icklingham for life , for which she released her claim in the other possessions.17 The land in Barnston was held of the prior of Colne , 18 and partly in 1235 of Matthew de Louvain.19 Ralph de Berners being deceased in 1224 the bishop of Ely had Ralph's animals and chattels on his manors of Broomfield , ( Black ) Notley and Newton to dis tribute them for Ralph's soul as might seem most expedient.20 In 1226 there was a plea between John de Berneres and Ralph de Berneres , that John should acquit Ralph against the bishop of Ely , because the bishop would not take Ralph's homage.21 This Ralph , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 231] ===
 
 
 DUNMOW 215 


 
 
 nephew ( ? ) of the elder Ralph , was a special justice in 1229 in an Essex plea.22 


 In 1235 the abbot of St. Edmund's complained against Ralph de Berneres touching a mill pool raised higher in Icklingham.23 On the commission for the appointment of collectors of the aid of 1235 in Essex Ralph de Berners ' name was cancelled because he was dead . 24 At this time John de Berners had a tenement in Nosterfield , Cambs.25 He appears to be the representative of a younger branch of the family who had Streethall and land in Great Dunmow , Essex . 


 
 
 In 1236 ( ? ) Ralph de Berners held of Margery de Riversfee in Dunmow.26 One Ralph de Berners gave to Dunmow a rent of 25. from the mill of Icklingham for the soul of his wife Matilda.27 William de Bernieres gave a rent from land in Berneston to the same house , with the body of his father.28 At the first collection of the aid in 1235 William de Berners ( possibly Ralph's brother ) paid for this tenement.29 This may indicate that after Ralph's death William Berners accounted in place of the heir , who was a minor . In 1242-3 the keepers of the land and heir of Ralph de Berners held 


 30 


 fee in Icklingham of Isabel de Brus , who held it of the king.³ In 1242 John de Berners served over seas with the king , and two years later in Wales.31 In 1245 his lands were temporarily seised into the king's hands because he with others had taken part in the tournament at Cambridge which had been prohibited.32 


 In 1248 Bartholomew de Crek , Ralph de Berners and William de Beaumont were heirs of Nesta de Cokefeld , late wife of Matthew de Leyham ( n . 2 ) 33 and descendant and heir of Pain Burnel . In 1252 John de Berners had a grant of free warren at Streethall and Dunmow , 34 and in the following year licence to hunt the hare , fox and cat in the royal forest of Essex , except in warrens and during the fence month.35 In 1253 John de Berners had exemption for life from serving on assizes and the like , 36 and as John de Berners the elder had a grant in the following year of free warren at Hersham , Essex , and of market and fair at his manor of Dunmow.37 In 1254 the younger John ( ? ) was going to Gascony , 38 and in 1260 was with Edward the king's son in parts beyond seas.39 In 1262 it was covenanted that John de Berners should hold of Ralph de Berners 1 carucate in Streethall with the advowson of the church , the manor of Newton in Great Dunmow , Essex , and the manor of Waldingfield , Suff . , for 4 fees when before he did the service of 3 fees.40 


 
 
 In 1263 land in Great Dunmow was held of the fee of Ralph de Berners.41 In 1265 Ralph was of the Montfort party , but obtained pardon in 1267.42 Two years later he had exemption for life from assize and the like.43 In 1270 the manor of Streethall , late of John de Berners , was in the possession of Edward the king's son , by occasion of the said John's trespasses against the king in the late disturbances , and by prince Edward was granted to Robert de Tybetot.44 Ralph de Berners was a knight in 1271,45 and in 1274 had gallows , view of frankpledge , warren , & c . , in Barnston and Roding Berners.46 It was presented from Great Dunmow that the 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 232] ===
 
 
 216 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 sheriff had seized the beasts of the men of that vill for the debt 


 Judeysmy ' of Sir John de Berners.47 In 1279 Ralph was a com missioner to inquire in Surrey and Sussex of those who had lands worth £ 20 a year and were not yet knights.48 He died at the beginning of the year 1297 , holding the lands described above in Islington , Midd . , Icklingham , Suff . , Barnston , Roding Berners and Berewick Berners ; Edmund his son , then in Gascony , was aged 30 or more . 49 Christina de Berners , Ralph's wife , held the manor of West Horsley , Surrey , of her own maritagium , and in 1302-3 she held 21 fees in dower in Roding Berners and Berewick ; Edmund de Berners held 1 fee in Barnston ; Pain de Tybetot held the land late of John de Berners in Streethall of the bishop of Ely for 1 fee.50 In 1303 Edmund son of Ralph de Berniers passed to Matthew Flambard for life a tenement in Abbess Rothing ; the reversion was to Christiana , mother of Edmund for her life , and then to Edmund and his heirs . 51 There were similar remainders in another fine of the same date by which Edmund gave the manor of Beaumont ( near Tendring ) for life to Richard and James , sons of Ralph de Berners . 52 


 I 


 
 
 In 1330 John de Berners held the manor of Icklingham of Edmund earl of Kent.53 John de Berners , chivaler , died in 1342,54 and in 1347 his heir held fee in Barnston of John de Louvain.55 As John de Berners held Barnston , Roding Berners and Berewick in 1346,56 he was probably heir of John de Berners , knt.57 In 1368 Hugh de Badewe held of Robert de L'Isle 1 fee in Great Badewe ( sic for Dunmow ? ) of the fee of Berners . 58 Thomas de Coggeshale held the same in 1401-2.59 


 
 
 2. Mon. Angl . 


 3. Red Bk . 7. Ibid . 78 . 10. Ibid . ( Pipe R. 


 1. Chartul . of Chester Abbey ( Chetham Soc . N.S. 79 ) , 19 . Cf. Chs . in Brit . Mus . i . 43 ; Round , G. de Mandeville , 229–31 . 355. 4. Ibid . 345 . 5. Ibid . 365 , 525. 6. Ibid . 187 . 8. Pipe R. 23 Hen . II , 149. 9. R. Cur . Reg . i . 204 . Soc . xiv ) , 72. 11. Mon. Angl . iv . 150. 12. Possibly of Ormsby , Norf . Cf. Anct . Chs . ( Pope R. Soc . x ) , 110. 13. R. Cur . Regis , i . 334. 14. R. Lit. Claus . i . 1176. 15. Ibid . 120b . 16. Ibid . 3386. 17. Essex Feet of F. 58 , 66. 18. Ibid . 88. 19. Ibid . 98. 20. R. Lit. Claus . i . 611 . 21. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 1719. 22. Pat . R. 282. 23. Ibid . 349. 24. Close R. 190 . 25. Ibid . 167. 26. Bk . of Fees , 480 , 608. 27. Dunmow Chartulary , Harl . MS . 662 , f . 27d . 28. Ibid . 29. Bk . of Fees , 477 . 30. Ibid . 920. 31. Cal . Pat . R. 296 , 430. 32. Close R. 362. 33. Ibid . 34. Cal . Chart . R. i . 392 . 35. Ibid . 433. 36. Cal . Pat . R. Ibid . 305. 38. Ibid . 375 . 41. Cal . Inq . i . 179 . 


 106 , 120 . 192. 37 . of F. 257 . Pp . 149 , 153 . 


 40. Essex Feet 39. Ibid . 181 . 42. Cal . Pat . R. 1266 , p . 618 ; 1267 , 45. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 165 . 48. Cal . Pat . R. 342. 49. Cal . 


 43. Ibid . 326. 44. Ibid . 410 . 46. R. Hund . i . 157b . 47. Ibid . 145 . Inq . iii . 273. 50. Feud . Aids , ii . 150-2 . 51. Essex F. of Fines , 31 Edw . I ( 59/109 ) . 52. Ibid . ( 59/110 ) . See V. C. H. Essex , i . 535a . 53. Cal . Ing . 


 54. Cal . Fine R. v . 288. 55. Cal . Inq . ix . 10. 56. Feud . Aids , 57. Cal . Close R. 319 . 58. Ibid . 496. 59. Feud . Aids , vi . 308 . 


 
 
 vii . 230 . 


 ii . 174 . 


 
 
 XXIII . 


 Roger de Otburvill in 1086 held of the king in Flowton , Suff . , 70 acres . 


 In 1166 Richard son of Gerold held of Henry Fitz - Gerold the 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 233] ===
 
 
 FLOWTON - SAWSTON , HAWKWELL , GLEMHAM 217 


 
 
 chamberlain I fee in Flowton ( Flecton ) of the fees late of Eudes the sewer.¹ In the time of Henry II Gerard de Wachesham gave two - thirds of the tithe of his demesne in Flowton to the abbey of Colchester.2 


 
 
 Before 1234 this tenement had come into the possession of Ralph Merc , as shewn at n . 20. Subsequently it descended with the tenements described in that section . There are indications that it had been granted before 1296 to Robert de Tybetot.³ In 1314 Pain de Tybetot died seised of inter alia land in Flowton and I carucate called ' Tounstall ' pertaining to the manor of Nettlested held of the king as of the honor of Albemarle ; John his son was aged 14 months.¹ 


 
 
 2. Chartul . 432 . 4. Cal . Inquis . v . 288 . 


 
 
 1. Red Bk . 355 . of F. 99 . 


 
 
 3. Cal . Pat . R. 218 ; Suff . Feet 


 
 
 XXIV . 


 Pirot held of Eudes Fitz - Hubert the sewer in 1086 in Sawston 4 hides , in Babraham I virgate , and in Pampisford 5 acres , all in Cambridgeshire ; in Bedfordshire , in Beeston I hide and in Northill I hide ; in Hawkwell , Essex , 3 hides less 15 acres ; in Glemham , Suff . , 2 carucates and 53 acres . 


 Eudes the sewer held in Lindsell , Essex , 1 hide . 


 
 
 It is difficult to identify the lands which Eudes the sewer held in demesne in Kent . Of the lands held in 1086 by Adam son of Hubert of the bishop of Bayeux about 22 solins do not appear to have been held by the knights of the honor of Eudes . To the danegeld of 1129 the sum of 27s . was pardoned in 1130 on the demesne of Eudes the sewer.¹ In this demesne may have been Kemsing . Is it possible that the 278. of danegeld pardoned in 1130 to Amfrey the sewer was in respect of this demesne ? ² Warin Fitz Gerold was in 1156 pardoned 17s . of danegeld in Kent.3 Kemsing was then a crown estate , £ 10 being expended in restocking the demesne , and £ 5 of the old rent was given to Warin Fitz - Gerold.4 


 Pirot gave to St. John's , Colchester , half the tithe of Glemham , Henry I confirming it in 1119 , and possibly in 1104.5 


 6 


 Alan Pirot gave to the monastery of Bermondsey 6000 herrings from the manor of ' Erchlawis . ' To St. Alban's he gave his chapel of Knowlton ( ' Kenoutone ' ) , with tithe of the vill . ' He held of William de Aubigny the butler 6 fees.8 ( See Arundel , n . 71. ) A fragmentary note from the Bermondsey chartulary names , perhaps incorrectly , Alan Perot , Sibyl his wife , Ralph his heir and Matilda his wife , and Simon son of Ralph ; William , Robert and John Perot , brothers of Ralph , and Ralph del Bois his nephew.9 Sibyl , Alan's wife , was a sister of William de Watevill.10 


 
 
 Ralph Pirot gave to St. John's , Colchester , land in Carlton , Beds . , hide in Babraham , Cambs . , and 3 solidates of land in Har lington , Beds . , on the honor of Cainhoe.11 During the period 1119-1146 Ralph Pirot gave to the hospital of St. Julian , near St. Albans , two - thirds of the tithes of his demesne of Lindsell and Hawkwell.12 He also gave to Walden a virgate of land and 4s . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 234] ===
 
 
 218 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 rent in Lindsell , for the soul of his son Simon , & c.13 His son Ralph confirmed the same by a deed to which William son of Ralph Pirot was a witness.14 Within the period 1147-1165 Ralph gave for the soul of Aubreye his wife 20 solidates of land in Carlton , Beds . , which his chief lord Stephen de Aubigny ( of Cainhoe ) and Robert his son confirmed , to abbot Gilbert for the soul of Henry de Aubigny.15 Robert de Aubigny and S. his mother made a similar confirmation by charter attested by Ralph Pirot II.16 Finally Ralph Pirot II , for the health of the soul of Mahalt his wife , confirmed the first named gift of his father Ralph by deed attested by his brothers William and John Pirot.17 


 In 1166 Ralph Pirot II held of Henry Fitz - Gerold 4 fees as of the fees of Eudes the sewer ; 18 Warin Fitz - Gerold , brother of the said Henry , gave the service of Ralph Pirot with Kemsing , Kent , to his wife in dower and at that time Geoffrey de Ver had his service.18 Consequently Ralph held of Geoffrey de Ver 4 fees , as of the honor of John the seneschal.19 He also held 5 fees of Robert de Aubigny of Cainhoe , 20 2 fees of the bishop of Ely , 21 and 6 fees in Kent of William de Aubigny , titular earl of Arundel , as successor to Alan Pirot.22 Possibly he held 1 fee of the king in chief in Lindsell , Essex , which his son held in 1200 and after.23 


 
 
 In 1176 Ralph Pirot was amerced 40 marks for forest trespass in Bedfordshire , 24 and in 1180 he owed 10 marks in that county or Buckinghamshire that Thurstan Basset should acquit him towards the Jews of 25 marks for which he was surety.25 He died before 1195 , when Ralph Pirot III owed 30 marks for his fine for a fee of 4 knights of the honor of Colchester and 10 marks of his gift for the king's redemption.26 In 1201 Ralph Pirot of Essex gave 15 marks in lieu of service beyond seas , and for seisin of his land of which he had been disseised by reason of the count of Eu ( Augy ) , if so be that he held of John of Eu when John last crossed to Normandy.27 For the further descent of this family see Arundel , n . 71 . 


 In 1196 William Boterel accounted for £ 9 of the honor of Geoffrey de Ver for 9 fees to the scutage of Normandy and £ 5 of the scutage of the fee of Eudes the sewer for 5 fees , and similarly in 1203.2 He had married the said Geoffrey's relict . 


 28 


 King John gave the manors of Kemsing , Brabourn and Sutton in Kent , late of William Marshal the younger , to William earl of Albemarle in 1215.29 Subsequently Kemsing passed to Faukes de Breauté , who in 1219 obtained a grant of a market at his manor there.30 In that year it was presented from the hundred of Otheford that Kemsing was the king's escheat and was held by Faukes de Breauté ; it was worth £ 36 a year.31 The three manors above named were taken into the king's hands in 1224. Baldwin de Bethune had sometime given 40s . of rent in Kemsing to the abbess of Wilton.33 In 1225 the three manors were committed to earl William Marshal together with the stock.34 It was presented in 1275 that the manor of Kemsing had been sometime given to Baldwin de Bethune , but at that time William de Valence held it.35 


 32 


 
 
 Ralph Pirot III died in 1222 , when Richard his son did homage for 2 fees in Lindsell and Hawkwell , Essex , lately held in chief by 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 235] ===
 
 
 SAWSTON , HAWKWELL , GLEMHAM 219 


 
 
 Ralph his father.36 Richard gave 12d . rent in Lindsell and the garbs of his demesne there to Dunmow , the latter for the works of the church.37 He died in 1228 , having in the year before demanded against Jordan le Brun the advowsons of the churches of Ashingdon and Hawkwell , which last - named advowson he quitclaimed to Jordan.38 


 In 1228 Ralph Pirot , brother and heir of Richard , did homage for the lands ( in Lindsell and Hawkwell ) which his brother had lately held of the crown in chief.39 


 He confirmed to Dunmow the above - named rent of 12d . & c . for the soul of his brother Richard.40 In 1236 Ralph Pirot returned a certificate of his fees for the aid for marrying the king's daughter , namely in Lindsell I fee which he himself held , in Hawkwell 1 fee which Jordan le Brun held , in Sawston , Cambs . , 2 fees of which he held 7 parts and John son of William de Sausiton 1 part.41 In 1240 Odo Burnard , whom Thomas Fitz - Bernard and Alina his wife vouched to warranty , acknowledged that I carucate in Beeston , Budna ( Budenho ) , Great and Little Caldecote , Beds . , was the right of Ralph Pirot , who granted it to Odo to hold for fee.42 


 In 1242-3 Ralph Pirot held by barony in Sawston 2 fees , and in Lindsell and Hawkwell 2 fees , of the king in chief.43 Apparently the service of these fees had been alienated by Warin Fitz - Gerold I from the honor , as stated above , for there is nothing to indicate any feudal relation between Pirot and the fee of Margery de Rivers in 1236 or at any later date . At his death in 1252 Ralph Pirot IV held Sawston , Cambs . , of the king in chief for 2 fees , and the manor of Lindsell , including no doubt Hawkwell , similarly of the king for 2 fees ; Ralph Pirot V , knt . , his son , was aged 26 and more . 44 In 1284-6 Ralph Pirot and Thomas de Kancia held in Northill , Beds . , Ralph V , or possibly his son Ralph Pirot VI , died in 1305 similarly seised of Sawston and Lindsell ; his heir was Ralph VIII , son of Ralph VII , son of the said Ralph V or VI.46 We have therefore in this family the unusual occurrence of 7 , if not 8 , generations successively bearing the name of Ralph . 


 fee of Ralph de Beauchamp.45 


 In 1315 John de Locheleye and Isabel his wife gave the manor of Lindsell to Simon Perot and Jakemine his wife for life , with reversion to John and his heirs . This fine was made by the king's order.47 


 
 
 134 , 499 . 


 1. Pipe R. 30 Hen , I , 66. 2. Ibid . 67. 3. Ibid . 2 Hen . II , 67. 4. Ibid . 65-66 . 5. Colchester Chartul . 6 , 13. 6. Annals of Bermond . 439. 7. Mon. Anglic . ii . 221. 8. Red Bk . 398 . 9. Claud . A. viii . f . 117. 10. Ibid . f . IIId . 11. Colchester Chartul . 179. 12. Mon. Anglic . vi . 618. 13. Harl . MS . 3697 , f.207 . 14. Ibid . 15. Ibid . 180. 16. Ibid . 17. Ibid . 179. 18. Red Bk . 355. 19. Ibid . 275. 20. Ibid . 324. 21. Ibid . 365. 22. Ibid . 398. 23. Ibid . 24. Pipe R. 22 Hen . II , 24 . 25. Ibid . 26 Hen . II , 129 . 26. Pipe R. 7 Ric . I , m . 9. 27. R. de Oblat . 151 . 28. Red Bk . 105 , 158 . 29. R. Lit. Claus . i . 230b . 30. Ibid . 393. 31. Bk . of Fees , 269. 32. R. Lit. Claus . i . 620 , 645. 33. Ibid . ii . 17 . 34. Ibid . 27-29 . 35. R. Hund . i . 234 . 36. Ann . of Dunstable , 77 ; Excerpt . Fin . i . 97. 37. Harl , MS . 662 , f . 54 . 38. Essex Feet of F. 78. 39. Excerpt . Fin . i . 166. 40. Harl . MS . 662 , f . 54 . 41. Bk . of Fees , 582. 42. Feet of F. Beds . n . 456. 43. Testa , 355b , 266b . 44. Cal . Inq . i . 60. 45. Feud . Aids , i . 5. 46. Cal . Inq . iv . 222. 47. Essex F. of Fines , 9 Edw . II ( 61/1636 ) . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 236] ===
 
 
 220 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 XXV . 


 In Pitsea , hundred of Barstable , Essex , in 1086 the king had 3 hides which Ulveva wife of Phin ( the Dane ) held in 1086 with hide of woodland ; and in the same place 3 hides and 30 acres of woodland remained in the king's hands . 


 In Bowers Gifford Serlo held of Ranulf Peverel 1 hide , in Vange I hide and in ' Inga ' ( ? in Pitsea ) I hide and 20 acres . These were all in the hundred of Barstable . 


 
 
 In Bowers Gifford a certain knight held of Walter the deacon 2 hides of the land of Tedric , brother of the said Walter . 


 In Bowers Gifford Grim the reeve had 2 hides . 


 
 
 One of these estates in Bowers Gifford passed eventually to the fee of Warin Fitz - Gerold , later of Henry his brother . Another was granted by Henry I and confirmed by Henry II to Ralph Fitz Gerold to hold by serjeanty of scalding the king's swine . 


 As already noted in the Introduction , the manor of Pitsea was given by Eudes the sewer and Rohaise his wife to St. John's , Col chester , excepting the fee there of Ralph de Mundon and that of Alwin Sokeman ; ¹ the church of Pitsea and two - thirds of the tithe with the chapel upon the land of the monks there were confirmed to the monastery.2 In 1119 Henry I confirmed the manor , except as above , and a hide given by William Peverel , ³ whose grant was attested by Serlo ( his Domesday tenant ) , who held that hide , Robert de Muntalurme , brother of the same Serlo , Godfrey de Rochela , Richard Mauduit and 4 others.ª 


 
 
 5 


 It appears that Richard ( de Clare ) , son of count Gilbert , acquired an interest in Pitsea soon after 1086 if not before , through Phin the Dane , holding of him Barrow Hall in Rochford hundred . Further , that this interest was given in marriage to Eudes the sewer with Rohaise his wife , daughter of Richard de Clare . In the chartulary of St. John's , Colchester , there is an interesting quitclaim by Gilbert son of the said Richard to St. John's , Hugh abbot of the same , Eudes the sewer and his wife of all claim that the said Gilbert or his father had in Pitsea ; to which were witnesses : Baldwin the grantor's son , Hamon de St. Clare , Ralph de Amblie ( n . 1 ) , Adeliza sister of Baldwin , Ingram de Albernon , Alvred de Benevill and William his brother , William Filliol , Swen son of Geremund , Hamelin de Anslevill , Flambard , William de Hausvill and Ranulf brother of Falcon . 


 
 
 In 1166 Ralph Fitz - Gerold ( ? ) ( Geri ' ) held of Henry Fitz - Gerold the chamberlain 1 fee , as of the fees of Eudes the sewer , but of this 5th part of a knight Sir Warin , brother of the said Henry , had enfeoffed him of his demesne of Kemsing and had given his service and that of Ralph Pirot with Kemsing to his wife in dower . " See n . 24. In the carta of Geoffrey de Ver , among the 5 fees which he had of the honor of John the seneschal , duly appeared the entry : ' Ralph Fitz - Gery by the service of 1 knight . ' 8 In 1166 the sheriff of Kent accounted among escheats for 2s . from the land of Ralph Fitz - Gerold , and so yearly until 1173 . 


 9 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 237] ===
 
 
 BOWERS GIFFORD , LANGDON 221 


 
 
 At Midsummer 1178 , after the death of Alexander Fitz - Gerold , the sheriff of Essex accounted for 48s . 5d . of the issues of Bowers Gifford ( Bures ' ) late of the said Alexander , 10 and in the following year of 14s . 8d.11 


 12 


 In 1180 Peter de Sutton and Margaret his wife owed £ 50 in Essex and Hertfordshire for his part of the land late of Ralph Fitz - Gerold , ¹ and John de Tresgoz owed £ 100 in Kent for having his share of the same Ralph's land.13 Sutton made several payments by the hands of William de Bendenges . In 1189 Alan de Valeines owed £ 10 2s . 8d . for Peter de Sutton on account of his said fine , ¹ª and John Fitz Pain accounted in Essex for 1 mark for a recognition of the land of Langdon ( Langoton ' ) against Peter de Sutton and John de Tres go2.15 In 1204 Robert de Sutton acknowledged the right of Thomas de Camvill to the advowson of the church of Langdon , and Thomas granted him the land which John Fitz - Pain held of the said Thomas in Langdon with the advowson , to hold for fee ; for default of warranty Thomas covenanted to assign to Robert 3s . of rent in Fobbing , Essex.16 William Bataille quitclaimed to John de Lange dun 15s . of rent in Langdon.17 To both fines John Fitz - Pain was a consenting party . Peter son of John Tregoz occurs in 1199.18 


 In 1209-10 king John confirmed to William Bigod the grant in frank marriage from Robert de Sutton to the said William with Margaret his daughter of his lands in Sutton and Bowers Gifford , with the advowson of the church , the serjeanty of the hundred of Barstaple , and suit of all his lands at Langdon with the advowson of the church there.19 In 1200 Robert de Sutton had been impleaded by Thomas de Camvill for 30 acres of land in the marsh of Richer ness in Bowers Gifford.20 


 
 
 In 1219 Robert de Sutton , who had returned to allegiance in 1217 , held Bowers Gifford by serjeanty of scalding the king's bacon pigs , and the hundred of Barstaple , Essex , for £ 18 rent to the farm of the county.21 He was tenant of the abbot of Colchester for a parcel in Pitsea.22 


 
 
 Robert de Sutton gave to the abbey of Maldon the advowson of the church of Langdon and that of the church of St. Margaret of Bowers Gifford , and in 1238 Margery la Bigod , daughter and heir of the said Robert , quitclaimed her right therein ; John de Langedon and Thomas le Bygot recorded their claims.23 As far back as 1228 Roger de Leyburn ( n . 4 ) had quitclaimed to William Bigod and Margery his wife and the heirs of Margery 2 carucates and the advowson of the church of Bowers Gifford ( Bures ' ) , and the marsh of Richerness to be held of the same Roger for fee.21 The further descent of these tenements is illustrated by a fine levied in 1243 between William Giffard and William de la Dune and Margery ( de Sutton ) his wife , to which premises Thomas le Bigod of Bradelegh , son and heir of William le Bigod by Margery his wife , put in his claim.25 In 1246 William Giffard had a grant of land in Barstaple , Essex , late of Roger Bataile , being of the Normans ' lands.26 


 As Langdon was a member of the honor of Ralegh 27 it could not have represented the fee held of Fitz - Gerold in 1166 , although the 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 238] ===
 
 
 222 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 families of Sutton and Tregoz were clearly heirs general of Ralph Fitz - Gerold . 


 In 1265 the land in Bowers late of William Giffard was seized.28 Gundred his wife was possibly the daughter and heir of Thomas Bigod of Bradelegh , son and heir of William le Bigod and Margery de Sutton.29 They granted land in Bowers to Richard de Tany and acknowledged in the king's court the right of the abbot of Colchester of view of frankpledge of their vill of Pitsea in accordance with the charters of Henry II and Richard.30 In 1275 William Gif fard held the hundred of Barstaple of the king for 25 marks , and had divers liberties in Bowers.31 In 1276 he and his wife impleaded William son of Warin de Muntchenesy for deforcing them of view of frankpledge , suit to Barstaple hundred court , ward and ' ward peny ' in 4 vills ( named ) , and afterwards quitclaimed their demand by reason of acquittance granted to Ralph de Muntchenesy by Henry II.32 


 
 
 In 1281 Robert Giffard , in the court of the exchequer and in the presence of William Giffard , father of Robert , and Gundred his wife , mother of Robert , surrendered to the king and Eleanor the king's consort , the bailiwick of the hundred and a half of Bar staple , Essex , held of the king at fee farm for 25 marks yearly , which he had by the grant and demise of the said William and Gundred and by charters of Henry I and Henry II , whereby Ralph son of Gerold , ancestor of the said Gundred , was enfeoffed of the said bailiwick ; saving to the said Robert and his heirs the fair and part of the market of Horndon and his tenants there ; and on condition that the tenement late of Robert le Lord in Bowers be quit of suit , two wards etc. in the said hundred with other conditions ( named ) .³ 


 33 


 
 
 S 


 
 
 Gundred Giffard died in 1299 ; Robert Giffard her son was aged 38 and more.34 He had livery in the following year of his mother's lands.35 In 1302 he was charged with £ 5 relief of 1 fee in Rawreth , 36 Essex , of which his mother died seised . He died before 1315 , when Margery late wife of Peter Savery had livery of lands in the hundred of Rochford , Essex , which had been acquired jointly by the said Peter and Margery of Robert Giffard and were held of the honor of Ralegh for fee.37 In 1321 land in Langdon was held of John Giffard for rent and suit of his court of Bowers.38 In 1324 John Giffard of Essex had respite of knighthood for a term.39 In 1329 Master Henry de Shorne of Kent acknowledged that he owed . £ 3000 to John Giffard , son and heir of Robert Giffard , knt . , of Bowers , Essex.40 As of Bowers he and Eleanor his wife had licence to alienate lands in Morton by Ongar in 1338 , and he had exemption for life from serving as king's minister.41 The manor of Bowers and its many members were limited by Henry de Shorne upon John Giffard and his issue , with remainder to Thomas de St. Nicholas and his heirs by fine for the benefit of St. Nicholas . This settle ment probably represented a purchase of the estate . John died without issue in 1348 , when Thomas , son and heir of the said Thomas de St. Nicholas , aged 10 years , was found to be entitled to the reversion of the manor , which was held of many lords ; 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 239] ===
 
 
 KINGSTON LISLE , SPARSHOLT 223 


 
 
 John's right heir was William Bigod , son of John Bigod of Vange , Essex.42 


 
 
 275 . 


 1. Colchester Chartul . 2 , 5 . 2. Ibid . 95 . 3. Ibid . 6. 4. Ibid . 142 . 5. V. C. H. Essex , i . 482. 6. Op . cit . 141. 7. Red Bk . 275 , 355 . 8. Ibid . 9. Pipe R. 12 Hen . II , 114 . 10. Ibid . 24 Hen . II , 37. 11. Ibid . 25 Hen . II , 119. 12. Ibid . 26 Hen . II , 6. 13. Ibid . 147. 14. Ibid . 1 Ric . I , 22 . 15. Ibid . 29. 16. Essex Feet of F. 33 . 17. Ibid . 33 . 18. Ibid . 17 . 19. Cart . Antiq . H. n . 2 ; Dugdale , Baronage , i . 133b . 20. R. Cur . Reg . iii . 296 ; Cf. Select Civil Pleas ( Selden Soc . ) , i . 36. 21. Bk . of Fees , 276 , 345 22. Ibid . 627. 23. Essex Feet of F. 122 , 198. 24. Ibid . 83. 25. Ibid . 143 ; 26. Ibid . 447 · 27. Morant , Essex , v . 257. 28. Cal . 29. Colchester Chartul . 473 . 30. Ibid . 447 32. Placit . de quo war . 238b . 33. Cal . Pat . R. 453 . 34. Cal . Inquis . iii . 431 . 35. Cal . Fine R. i . 425 . 


 Excerpt . Fin . i . 394 . Misc . Ing . i . 202 . 31. R. Hund . i . 154 pass . Cf. Placit . de quo war . 238b . 36. Feud . Aids , ii . 439 . 38. Cal . Inquis . vi . 154 . 41. Cal . Pat . R. 50 , 82 . 


 37. Cal . Inquis . v . 280 ; Cal . Close R. 151 . 39. Cal . Fine R. iii . 302 . 40. Cal . Close R. 533 . 42. Cal . Inquis . ix . 103 . 


 
 
 XXVI - XXVII . 


 The king in 1086 held Sparsholt in Hildeslaw hundred , ¹ Berks . , in demesne ; it was assessed at 10 hides . This land included Kingston Lisle . 


 
 
 3 


 Upon his accession Henry II gave Sparsholt to his chamberlain of the exchequer , Warin Fitz - Gerold ; it was then farmed by the sheriff of Berkshire for £ 32 per annum.2 Warin thereupon enfeoffed of this land Alexander Fitz - Gerold of 1 knight's fee and Hugh Fitz Gerold of the like . They were probably his kinsmen , and the first - named of these , Alexander , married Alice de Rumeilli , relict of William Fitz - Duncan , and so held the honor of Skipton in 1166 by the courtesy of England . He died without issue in 1178 , when his fee in Sparsholt reverted to the heir of Henry Fitz - Gerold . 


 In Sparsholt was an estate called Fawler , of ro hides , which belonged to Abingdon abbey . In the reign of William II and early in that of Henry I this estate was held by Ansketill , a knight of abbot Rainald , who forfeited it for some offence . While the abbey was in his hands the king gave this estate to Thurstan his despencer , to whom succeeded Hugh his son . Henry I restored the estate to Abingdon and directed Hugh son of Thurstan , despencer of his court , to do fealty to abbot Faritius and perform the due service of that land.ª Possibly this was the knight's fee which Baldwin de Fagesflore held in 1166 of the abbot of Abingdon . 5 


 In 1212 Warin Fitz - Gerold held 32 librates of land in Sparsholt by the gift of Henry II to his ancestor . It descended to Warin Fitz - Gerold , who held c . 1236 and in 1242-3 in Kingston Lisle , Berks . , I fee of Margery de Rivers and at the latter date 1 fee in Fawler ( Fauflore ) , Berks . , of the abbot of Abingdon . In 1267 Margaret de Rivers , countess of Devon , had 2 fees in Kingston and Sparsholt.8 In 1276 Gerard de L'Isle had gallows and assize of bread & c . at Kingston Lisle , and free warren ; 9 he had withdrawn the suit of his manor due to the hundred of Hildeslewe.10 


 
 
 In 1316 Warin de L'Isle was lord of Kingston Lisle with Balking and Fawler ( Fauelore ) . He died in 1327 holding the manor of 


 11 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 240] ===
 
 
 224 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 I 


 Ι 


 Kingston of Robert de L'Isle for 1 fee and that of Fallow or Fawler of the abbot of Abingdon ; Gerard his son was aged 23 or more.12 Gerard de L'Isle died in 1360 holding the manor of Kingston Lisle of Robert de L'Isle of Rougemont for I fee and 2 carucates in Fawler in Sparsholt of the abbot of Abingdon for 1 fee ; Warin de L'Isle , knt . , his son , was aged 30 or more.13 In 1368 Gerard ( sic ) de L'Isle held 1 fee in Kingston in the vale of Whithors ' of Sir Robert de L'Isle , and tenements in Sparsholt of the same Sir Robert , who held them of the abbot of Abingdon for 1 fee.14 


 6 


 I 


 
 
 1. Cf. R. Hund . i . 15 . 3. Red . Bk . 355-6 . 5. Red Bk . 306 . 8. Abbrev . Placit . 160. 9. R. Hund . i . 9-10 . 12. Cal . Inquis . vii . 6. 13. Ibid . x . 473 . 


 6 . 


 2. Red Bk . 658 and Pipe R. 2 Hen . II , 34 . 4. Chron . of Abingdon , 125-6 . ~ Cf. pp . 37 , 90–91 . Bk . of Fees , 107 . 7. Ibid . 607 ; Testa , 110 , 121 . 10. Ibid . 15 . 11. Feud . Aids , 14. Cal . Close R. 496 . 


 i . 50 . 


 
 
 XXVIII - XXIX . 


 Worth , Wilts . , was in the demesne of the king in 1086 ; Ralph the priest held the church of Worth and 3 hides pertained to it.¹ 


 Henry II gave to Warin Fitz - Gerold in 1155 in Worth , Wilts . , 34 librates and in Acre de Crichelade 100 solidates.2 Out of these lands Warin Fitz - Gerold enfeoffed William de Hanlege ( n . 21 ) of I fee in Sevenhampton and Jordan de Wicham of fee there . 1166 these two knights held of Henry Fitz - Gerold the chamberlain.³ 


 In 


 6 


 In 1212 Warin Fitz - Gerold held Sevenhampton and Cricklade by serjeanty of the king's chamber , and in 1242-3 Margery de Rivers held the vill of Cricklade and that of Sevenhampton with the appurtenances of the king's chamberlaincy at the exchequer . 5 In 1267 Isabel des Forz , countess of Albemarle , assigned to Margaret de Rivers , countess of Devon , the manor of Sevenhampton until certain moneys due to her by the said Isabel had been paid . In 1276 the same Isabel , then countess of Albemarle and Devon and lady of the Isle of Wight , in her widowhood , gave to her clerk Adam de Stratton the manor of Sevenhampton with the hamlets of Worth , Stratton St. Margaret and Cricklade with the hundred , to hold by performing the services pertaining to the office of chamberlain in the king's exchequer . He was in possession of the manor in 1289,9 but he was shortly afterwards convicted of malpractices and lost his estates , including Sevenhampton . 


 7 


 Edward I demised the manor to Margaret , queen of England , for her life . In 1299 the manor with the borough and hundred of Cricklade and other vast estates were assigned in dower to Margaret , sister of Philip king of France , the king's consort.10 She was lady of these vills in 1316.¹ 


 11 


 
 
 1. Dom . Bk . 65b . 2. Pipe R. 2 Hen . II , 35 , 57 . 4. Ibid . 486. 5. Testa , 153b . 6. Abbrev . Placit . 160 . of him by Mr. Hubert Hall in Red Bk . iii , Introd . cccxix . ii . 200. 9. Cal . Inquis . iv . 82. 10. Cal . Pat . R. 452 . 11. Feud . Aids , v . 206 . 


 
 
 3. Red Bk . 355-6 . 


 7. See an account 8. Cal . Chart . R. Cf. Cal . Inq . v . 27 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 241] ===
 
 
 WORTH - SAWBRIDGEWORTH , PISHOBURY 225 


 
 
 XXX . 


 
 
 In 1086 Geoffrey de Mandevill held Sawbridgworth , Herts . , as 24 hides . 


 The account of this vill belongs to that of the honor of Mandevill . In or before 1106 Henry I gave Sawbridgworth and other manors to Eudes the sewer , to hold until William de Mandevill should have paid the heavy debt , then due from him to the crown , to the said Eudes.¹ While in his hands Eudes gave to St. John's , Colchester , the third garb of the tithes of his demesne of Sawbridgworth , 2 and Geoffrey de Mandevill confirmed the gift early in the reign of Henry II.3 


 
 
 4 


 After the death of Eudes the sewer and about the year 1122 Henry I granted the church of Sawbridgworth to St. Peter's , West minster . In 1130 a considerable demesne in Sawbridgworth was in the hands of Henry I , upon which 46s . of danegeld was remitted.5 This land , formerly held by Eudes the sewer , remained in the crown until Henry II restored it , circa January 1156 , to Geoffrey de Mandevill , quit of the charge of the debt of William de Mandevill to Henry I. Two years later Geoffrey confirmed to Robert Blund of London land in Sawbridgworth which Warin Fitz - Gerold the chamberlain and Henry his brother had granted to him , which was of the said Geoffrey's fee . " 


 6 


 In 1166 Henry Fitz - Gerold the chamberlain recorded in his carta that : 


 
 
 Earl Geoffrey de Mandevill gave to Sir Warin my brother and to me Sawbridgworth for 74 librates of land , each 20 ( recte 10 ) librates for the service of I knight ; but Sir Warin my brother gave to St. Edmund's for ( the health of ) his soul 6 librates of land in the same vill quit.8 


 
 
 In 1166 Henry Fitz - Gerold held of Geoffrey earl of Essex 4 fees which the king then held in his own hands . These were probably not in Sawbridgworth , for an undated return states that Henry Fitz - Gerold had of Sawbridgworth 7 knights ' fees.10 This state ment is of interest as it shows that at that time 10 librates of land made a knight's fee . Apparently the whole of Sawbridgworth did not pass by the above feoffment into the possession of the Fitz Gerolds . Their manor was subsequently known by the name of Pishobury , while that which descended to Geoffrey de Say I was known as Says - bury . 


 
 
 In 1212 Geoffrey de Say the elder , younger son of William de Say I by his wife Beatrice , sister of Geoffrey de Mandevill , earl of Essex , held Sawbridgworth in chief of the king ; it belonged to the honor of earl William de Mandevill.¹¹ Geoffrey died in 1214 , when Geoffrey his son and heir proffered 400 marks for his inherit ance both on the side of his father and on that of his mother , including Rickling , Essex , which his father had given him.12 This last - named manor was in the possession of Beatrice de Say afore named in 1185,13 and probably remained in her possession until her death in 1207 . 


 
 
 III . Q 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 242] ===
 
 
 226 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 In 1222 Geoffrey de Say II had a grant of a market at Sawbridg worth.14 At this time Faukes de Breauté possessed a manor in this place , for in 1223 he and Margery his wife were vouched to warranty in a plea of virgate here , 15 and on 22 August , 1224 , the sheriff of Essex was notified that the king had committed to Margery wife of Faulkes de Breauté the manor of Sawbridgworth for her support.16 In 1236 Margery de Rivers was defendant in a plea of land in this place , ¹7 and in the ensuing year William de Say had a grant of 2 bucks and 8 does to put into his park of Sawbridgworth.18 


 Baldwin de L'Isle , earl of Devon , held at his death in 1263 the manor of Sawbridgworth of Sir William de Say for 3 fees ; Isabel des Forz , countess of Albemarle , late wife of the earl of Albemarle , was his sister and , through the death of his son , his heir , aged 24 or 25 years . The said Sir William de Say died seised of the manor of Sawbridgworth in 1272 ; William his son was aged 18 or 19 years.20 


 19 


 
 
 Margaret de Rivers , countess of Devon , held at her death in 1292 the manor of ' Pyshoo , ' later Pishobury , in dower after the death of her husband Baldwin de L'Isle , who held it of Sir William de Say for 3 fees ; Isabel des Forz , countess of Albemarle and Devon and lady of the Isle of Wight , was Baldwin's next heir to this manor.21 William de Say , of whom Pishobury was held , died in 1295 holding his manor of Sawbridgworth of the king in chief ; Geoffrey his son was aged 14 years . 


 22 


 1 


 In 1303 the manor of Pishobury was held of Geoffrey de Say for 3 fees and was in the king's hands by reason of custody of Robert de L'Isle , ( son of Warin and ) heir of the said manor , being then under age ; Geoffrey de Say then held the manor of Sawbridg worth.23 Margery late wife of Robert de Vautort held in 1310 a hall in Sawbridgworth of the heir of Warin de L'Isle as of his manor of Pishobury for fee ; Thomas her son was aged 24 and more.24 He is named Richard in Feudal Aids ( ii . 440 ) . In a writ issued in 1312 it was stated that by agreement certain of the lands late of Isabel des Forz , countess of Albemarle , including the manor of Pishobury , Herts . , ought to descend to Robert de L'Isle as her next heir of the inheritance of Margery wife of Baldwin de Varnoun her grandmother.25 The tenement given to St. Edmund's before 1166 was held in 1368 by the abbot of St. Edmund's of Robert de L'Isle as I fee in Tednambury by Sawbridgworth.26 


 The further descent of these manors in Sawbridgworth is fully described by Robert Clutterbuck in The History of Hertfordshire ( edit . 1827 ) , iii . 190 ff . , where pedigrees of Say , Fitz - Gerold and L'Isle will be found . 


 
 
 1. Colchester Chartul . 22. 2. Ibid . 68. 3. Ibid . 146 . 4. Robinson , Gilbert Crispin , 156. 5. Pipe R. 31 Hen . I , 62. 6. Round , Geof . de Mandeville , 235-6 . 7. Brit . Mus . Facsim . of Chs . i . 43. 8. Red Bk . 356 . 9. Ibid . 347. 10. Ibid . 731 . 13. R. de Dominabus , 76 . 


 11. Bk . of Fees , 123. 12. R. de Fin . 527 , 535 14. R. Lit. Claus . i . 514 , 540. 15. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 1643. 16. R. Lit. Claus . i . 617b , 642b . 17. Close R. 381 , 514 . 18. Ibid . 445. 19. Cal . Ing . i . 173–4 . 20. Ibid . 282. 21. Cal . Inq . iii . 38 . 22. Ibid . 170. 23. Feud . Aids , ii . 435. 24. Cal . Inq . v . 134. 25. Ibid . 


 202. 26. Cal . Close R. 496 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 243] ===
 
 
 DEDDINGTON 227 


 
 
 XXXI . 


 The bishop of Bayeux held in Deddington , ¹ Oxon . , 36 hides . Adam ( Fitz - Hubert de Ryes ) held of the said bishop in South Newington , Oxon . , 6½ hides , in Charlton , Northants . , 3 virgates . Roger ( de Chesney ) held of Robert de Oilli in Heyford ( Warin ) , Oxon . , 10 hides . See Wallingford , n . 


 Ralph de Langetot held of Walter Giffard in Bedfordshire in Dunton I hide and 3 virgates , in Campton 4 hides and 1 virgate . 


 Miles Crispin held in demesne in Oxfordshire inter alia in Gethampton ( Gadintone ) 5 hides , in Whitchurch 10 hides . See Wallingford , n . 24 . 


 Some part of the lands in Heyford Warin and Whitchurch were held by Ralph de Chesney in 1166 of the honor of Wallingford for 2 fees.2 They descended to Henry Fitz - Gerold the chamberlain by his marriage to Matilda de Chesney . The land in South Newington which Adam Fitz - Hubert held in 1086 was in the possession of Hugh de Chesney circa 1163 , and possibly in 1130 , together with land in Charlton . That in South Newington was subsequently held of the heirs of Fitz - Gerold . Wadard's 4 hides there were incorporated in the honor of Arsic , while Anschitel's 4 hides there were held of or by the Grays , his descendants . It was recorded in the Northamptonshire survey temp . Henry I ( 1124-29 ) that Eudes the sewer ( sic ) held 8 small virgates , equal to 31 virgates , in Charlton of the fee of Colchester . 


 
 
 Ralph de Langetot had issue one if not two daughters ; of these Alice became the wife of Roger de Chesney . An account of their progeny has been given by the Rev. H. E. Salter in the Appendix to his Chartulary of Eynsham ( Oxford Hist . Soc . xlix ) , 411 ff .; of that valuable contribution to the history of the Chesney family much use has been made in these notes . The issue of Roger and Alice , to whom particular reference will be made , were Hugh , heir to Roger and Alice ; William of Deddington ; Robert archdeacon of Leicester until 1147 , when he was preferred to the see of Lincoln ( d . 1168 ) ; Hawise ( ? ) and Beatrice . 


 
 
 In 1130 Hugh de Chesney was pardoned danegeld in Oxford shire of 22s . , presumably in respect of Heyford Warin 10 hides , and Murdac's hide in Minster ; in Bedfordshire of 6s . , presumably in respect of Campton ; and in Northamptonshire of 2s . , possibly in respect of land in Thenford or Charlton . The descent of the lands of his own inheritance and of his mother's appears to indicate that he was twice married and that he had issue by his first ( ? ) wife a daughter Matilda ; his second ( ? ) wife was Dionisia de Bereford , whom Mr. Salter identifies as daughter and coheir of Walkelin Waard , possibly son of the Wadard of the Domesday survey . Mr. Salter suggests that Hugh may have been married but once and that Matilda de Chesney may have been daughter of Roger de Chesney , younger son of Roger and Alice , or of Ralph brother of the younger Roger , both of whom died before 1148.4 No difficulty arises in regard to the inheritance of Dionisia ; it descended 


 
 
 3 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 244] ===
 
 
 228 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 regularly to the issue of Hugh and Dionisia , namely to Ralph de Chesney of Ducklington , who died in or before 1190 , William of Barford St. Michael , and Alice.5 South Newington of this fee was held of the Fitz - Gerolds and their descendants , the earls of Devon , and subsequently the earls of Albemarle . Deddington was held jointly in 1190 by ( 1 ) Guy de Dive in right of Lucy his wife , daughter and heir of Ralph de Chesney ; ( 2 ) Matilda de Chesney , mother of Warin Fitz - Gerold ; ( 3 ) Ralph Murdac III , son and heir of Ralph Murdac II by Beatrice de Chesney ( ? ) his wife . Here it may be well to cite the pleadings in a suit brought in 1241-2 by William de Dive against Beatrice Murdac , Ralph Harang and Alice his wife : they claimed against William a third part of 2 knights ' fees in Deddington , while he claimed against Ralph and Alice two - thirds of a third part of 2 fees ; Harang and his wife proffered a charter of Henry II by which he granted to Ralph Murdac and his heirs the whole of Deddington to hold for 2 fees ; William de Dive proffered another charter of Henry II by which he granted Ded dington to William de Chesney and his heirs for 2 knights ' fees , and alleged that on the death of William the grantee the manor descended to Ralph de Chesney his nephew , then to Lucy daughter of Ralph and that her husband Guy de Dive demised the manor to Ralph Murdac.7 


 8 


 9 


 The lands held in 1086 by Rainald , of the fee of William Fitz Osbern , were held in 1201 of Warin Fitz - Gerold , who also held 2 fees of the honor of Wallingford , being the lands held in 1166 by Ralph de Chesney , and in 1086 by Roger de Chesney and Miles Crispin . Most of the lands held by Anschetil de Grai in 1086 of the fee of William Fitz - Osbern were held in the first half of the 13th century of the heirs of Warin Fitz - Gerold . Lastly , the land in Campton , Beds . , held by Ralph de Langetot in 1086 of Walter Giffard , was in the possession of William de Chesney in 1162 , of Matilda de Chesney in 1176 and 1185 , of Henry Fitz - Gerold II , her younger son , at a later date and afterwards of his heirs the L'Isles . The tenement was described as two - thirds of the vill in 1287 , when it , i.e. the lordship of it , was said to have been given to Henry Fitz - Gerold II by William earl of Norfolk ( recte Pembroke ) and Marshal of England.10 It was also described as of the honor of Gloucester . 


 
 
 There is no evidence that William de Chesney of Deddington . left issue , but it is quite certain that Hugh , his elder brother , left issue by Dionisia de Bereford . Why then was not Hugh's son and heir by that lady heir to the inheritance of Hugh's father and mother and of Hugh's brother William ? There appears to be a possible explanation , namely that Hugh had issue by an earlier wife than Dionisia , and that Matilda de Chesney , who married Henry Fitz - Gerold prior to the year 1166 , was that heir , so that she carried the lands and lordship which had belonged to her father and his mother with the esnecy to her husband Henry Fitz - Gerold I. On the other hand Mr. Salter suggests that Henry II may have permitted William de Chesney to retain for life property over which he had obtained control during the time of Stephen on 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 245] ===
 
 
 DEDDINGTON 229 


 
 
 condition that two - thirds of it should descend to such Chesneys . as had married men of the king's household and their heirs . 


 Towards the end of his life and after May 1163 Hugh de Chesney , in conjunction with his sons , Ralph and William , and with the consent of Dionisia his wife , gave to the monks of Eynsham the church of South Newington , Oxon .; which gift was duly con firmed by the donor's brother , Robert de Chesney , bishop of Lin coln.11 Apparently Hugh died within the period 1156-1166 . As already stated , he left issue by Dionisia his ( second ? ) wife , Ralph , William and Alice , and to their heirs descended the lands which had been of the inheritance of the said Dionisia . 


 
 
 William de Chesney was a man of some note during the reign of Stephen and amassed a considerable estate , as Mr. Salter has shewn at the reference stated above . In 1157 he had remission of 72s . of danegeld in Oxfordshire , namely on 36 hides , which it is tempting to identify as Deddington , but probably represented the remission on other estates in addition.12 In 1160 he had remission of 8s . , being his portion of an amercement of 5 marks on the hundred of Langtree for a murder , ¹³ possibly due from Whitchurch on the fee of Wallingford . Two years later he had a similar remission of 3s . 4d . , being his portion of an amercement of 40s . on the hundred of Kenesward , ' 1 afterwards either in Chadlington or Wootton hundred , possibly in respect of Dean and Chalford , or of South Newington ; and also of £ 8 os . 6d . of danegeld , 15 in respect of 80 hides of his lands and custodies in Oxfordshire . Mr. Salter suggests that this remission was in respect of Deddington 36 hides , Dean and Chalford 8 hides , Whitchurch 10 hides , Mongewell ( ? ) 10 hides , Heyford Warin 10 hides , Rollright and Hornley 6 hides ; total 80 hides . Similarly he had remission of 5s . 6d . of danegeld in Bedfordshire , 16 in respect doubtless of his land in Campton , which represented 1 virgate less than his father's holding there in 1130. He returned no carta in 1166 , although he most likely held Deddington in chief of the king by the service of 2 knights , which service was performed by his successors . Possibly it was through a feoffment made by Hugh , elder brother of William de Chesney , that I hide in Thenford was held temp . Henry I by Robert Basset.¹7 In 1169 William de Chesney was pardoned 46s Sd . , being his proportion of the common assize of 60 marks due from the county of Oxford , 18 and two years latermark for wastes and assarts and pleas of the forest in that county.19 His tenure of knights ' fees and custodies of lands held of the bishopric of Lincoln is indicated by the remission to him in 1172 of £ 9 out of £ 44 which the farmers of the bishopric owed for scutage of knights which the late bishop , Robert de Chesney ( d . 1168 ) , did not acknowledge as due to the king , 20 namely those which were of new feoffment . He was deceased before 1176 , when ' Camelton ' of Matilda de Caisneto owed 2 marks for forest trespass . 21 


 
 
 William de Chesney's heirs were the above - named Matilda , of whom presently ; the heirs of Hawise ( ? ) , daughter of Roger de Chesney ; and the heirs of Beatrice , another daughter of the same Roger . Some account of those who are presumed to have been the 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 246] ===
 
 
 230 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 heirs of Hawise is given below at n . 31 ( 1 ) . Beatrice is supposed to have married Ralph Murdac II , son of Ralph Murdac I. He had issue a son Ralph Murdac III , who granted circa 1173-1180 to the monks of Eynsham , for the soul of his uncle William de Ches ney , a mill in Deddington called the ' Westmull . ' 22 He made other grants to the same monastery , as recited at n . 31 ( 2 ) , including that of of the mill of Clifton ( in Deddington ) .23 In a confirmation of 1194 , which will follow in due course , this 3rd part of the mill of Clifton was described as of the gift of Matilda de Chesney.24 


 
 
 Certain members of this family and of those with which it was connected by marriage were named in 1176 , as amerced for tres passes against the forest in Oxfordshire , namely , Ralph de Chesney of Ducklington and William de Chesney ( sons of Hugh ) ; Ralph Murdac , Geoffrey Murdac and John de Grai ( n . 31 ( 2 ) ) ; Ralph Foliot and Bartholomew Foliot ( n . 31 ( 1 ) ) . ² 25 


 Henry Fitz - Gerold the chamberlain died either shortly before Michaelmas 1174 or within 12 months after . The date of his death has been assigned in error to 1178,26 owing to the neglect on the part of the exchequer clerks to correct an old item of account on the Pipe Rolls , namely that relating to the scutage which remained due from the knights of the honor of Eudes the sewer , 27 which honor had been in the hands of the said Henry from 1158 to the time of his decease . In 1175 and again in 1182 Warin son of Henry the chamberlain was pardoned 2s . Id . , being his proportion of an amercement of 4 marks ( 3 marks in 1182 ) which had been imposed on the 3 hundreds of Wootton , Oxon . , for murder.28 In 1181 he was similarly pardoned 3s . 4d . , being his portion of an amercement of I mark for a murder in Langtree hundred.29 In 1183 Matilda de Chesney , his mother , owed 300 marks for having her land and the custody of her son's land.30 This fine must have been made many years prior to its enrolment , and shortly after the death of Henry Fitz - Gerold in 1174 or 1175 . Mr. Salter has found a grant of the same Henry in favour of Reading abbey of land in Sawbridgworth which was addressed to ' M. de Caisne ( io ) uxori mee . ' 31 The same Matilda gave or confirmed to the monks of Newington Longueville two - thirds of the tithe of her demesne of Campton by charter attested by Henry her ( younger ) son and , amongst others , by a layman and a chaplain of Whit church.32 It was presented in 1185 from Clifton hundred , Beds . , that Matilda de Kaineto was of the king's gift and had 2 sons , aged respectively 18 and 12 , and that her land of Campton was worth £ 7 a year.33 In the same year Warin son of Henry the chamberlain was pardoned 18d . of an amercement of 11s . imposed on Clifton hundred , Beds . , for a murder ; 34 in the ensuing year he was similarly pardoned 4s . 7d . out of 100s . imposed on Plowley ( Pokelawa " ) hundred , 35 doubtless in respect of Heyford Warin ; and in 1189 he was pardoned 20d . out of 3 marks imposed on Wootton hundred , Oxon.36 He had similar remission in respect of lands in the hun dreds of Armingford and Wetherley , Cambs.37 In 1190 Guy de Dyve , who had married Lucy daughter and heir of Ralph de Chesney , owed 50 marks for having a third part of the land of Deddington 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 247] ===
 
 
 DEDDINGTON 231 


 
 
 with other lands of the inheritance of his wife ; Matilda de Chesney owed 50 marks for a third part of the land of Deddington ; Ralph Murdach rendered account of 200 marks for having the king's good will . 38 Some light is thrown on this last entry by the record in 1196 of the debt of William Walensis of 1 mark because he was with Ralph Murdac in the war with count John . ' 


 39 


 Mr. Salter has suggested that Warin Fitz - Gerold was of the party of John count of Mortain in 1193 and in consequence was dispossessed of certain lands by Richard I , who appears to have given them to Guy de Dive , the representative of the line of Chesney of Ducklington . Hence in 1194 Guy confirmed to Eynsham abbey inter alia the ' Westmulne ' in Deddington , a third part of the mill of Clifton , which Matilda de Chesney had given , and lands in Stanlake given by Anschetill de Grai and John de Grai.40 There appears to be no confirmatory evidence of this suggested defection beyond that contained in Guy's somewhat presumptuous con firmation to Eynsham . 


 
 
 In 1198 Warin Fitz - Gerold owed 100 marks for seisin of his part of Deddington , such as his mother had at the time of her death.41 In 1201 he owed 295 marks for divers debts due to the crown , as recorded in the Pipe Roll of 1 John , 42 and in the same year had acquittance of scutage or service in respect of 6 fees in Oxfordshire.43 


 In 1204 Guy de Dive had seisin of his land in Deddington , except the castle , which the king retained in his own hands.44 In 1214 land in Deddington , which Thomas Basset had given to William Malet in marriage with his daughter , was committed to the same Thomas.45 Two years later Warin Fitz - Gerold's land in Deddington was committed to the king's bailees , 46 and in 1217 the relict of one of these bailees obtained possession of land here which her late husband had held by the bail of king John.47 Upon the collection of the carucage of 2s . levied in Oxfordshire in 1220 William de Dyve held in Deddington 15 carucates , Ralph Harang 13 carucates , and Eva de Gray 8 carucates ; total 36 carucates.48 


 In 1224 Margery , then the wife of Faukes de Breauté , obtained possession of the manor of Heyford Warin for her support ; 49 and Geoffrey son of Baldwin , brother and heir of William son of Bald win , recovered possession of 1 hide there , for which he had obtained judgment but could not obtain possession owing to the violence of Faukes de Breauté.50 


 I 


 
 
 In 1212 the earl of the Isle held ( jure uxoris ) 43 fees in Oxford shire , Warin Fitz - Gerold 6 fees , and Guy de Dive ( and others ) 2 fees . 51 In 1219 it was presented from Bampton hundred that the heirs of Guy de Dive ought to be in the king's custody and were in the custody of John de Bassingeburn ; their land in Deddington was worth £ 20 a year and William de Breauté held it ; Eva de Gray held 10 markates of land in Deddington of the king ; she also held of the heir of the earl of the Isle , then in the king's wardship , land in Lew , in the hundred of Bampton , worth £ 20 a year ; Alice Murdac , daughter of Ralph Murdac , held in Deddington 20 markates of land of the king and was in the custody of the archbishop of York . 52 


 In 1235-6 there were in Oxfordshire 7 fees of the honor of the 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 248] ===
 
 
 232 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 earl of the Isle ; 53 Margery de Rivers held 6 fees of the honors of Curcy and Fitz - Gerold , and 2 fees in Whitchurch , Heyford Warin and Clapham of the honor of Wallingford ( n . 13 ) ; 54 William de Dive and Ralph Hareng held 2 fees in Deddington ; 55 in Bedford shire 1 fee in Campton was described as of the fee of Warin Fitz Gerold . 56 


 
 
 In 1242-3 the abbot of Oseney held 1 fee in Little Tew ; and Ralph Ivaus I fee in South Newington of Margery de Rivers , countess of the Isle ; Agnes de Maydewell fee in South Newington . 1 \ / 1142 of William de Dive , who held it of the earl of the Isle.57 Part of the tenement in Little Tew was of the honor of Curcy ( n . 5 ) . 


 In 1247 Osbert Giffard II was found to be son and heir of Osbert Giffard I and next heir of the said Osbert and of Alice Murdac ( n . 31 ( 2 ) ) of a third part of the manor of Deddington , which the said . Alice held for a third part of 2 fees ; also of a fourth part of the manor of Stanlake held by the said Alice of Beatrice her sister.58 See n . 31 ( 2 ) . 


 The Bassets appear to have had an interest in Deddington . After 1259 Alan Basset , knt . , gave land here and in Clifton and Hempton to the canons of Bicester , which he had by the gift of Roger de Sampford , knt . , 59 who granted to Philip Basset a water - mill , land and rent in Deddington.60 This later became known as the Christ Church manor there . William de Dyve died in 1262 , his heir being John his son , aged 30 and more . This John died in 1272 , holding a manor in Deddington of the king for a third part of 2 fees ; Henry his son was aged 22 or more . 62 


 61 


 
 
 Some of these tenements may be traced in the Hundred Rolls of 1276. In that year it was presented that the prior of Bicester held a third part of the manor of Deddington which had been some time in the king's hands , but it was not known of whom he held it or by what service ; Osbert Giffard , Henry de Dive and the said prior had gallows and assize of bread and ale in the manor of Deddington . 63 In 1279 in South Newington Robert de Craunford held fee of the earl of Albemarle , who was mesne between the said Robert and the earl of the Isle ; 64 John Giffard the younger held there fee of the fee ( late ) of William de Chesney by Master John de Cumpton , Henry de Maydewelle and the heir of Agnes de Maydewell , mesnes between him and the heir of William de Ches ney , and rendered scutage to the heirs of Eva de Gray in Stanlake . 65 Henry de Dyve held at his death in 1277 the old castle and certain lands in Deddington of the king in chief for 1 fee ; John his son was aged 4 years . In 1279 Alice relict of Henry de Dyve obtained a grant of the marriage of Henry's heirs and custody of his land of Deddington during the minority of the heirs for £ 10 rent.67 In 1281 the castle there was in her custody by the king's commission.68 In 1296 Warin de L'Isle died seised of the manor of Campton , held of the king as an escheat of the lands late of the countess of Albemarle of her own inheritance , for fee ; she held of the earl of Gloucester ; Robert de L'Isle his son was aged 6 years.69 For references to the Gray holding in South Newington see n . 31 ( 2 ) . 


 66 


 
 
 1 


 2 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 249] ===
 
 
 DEDDINGTON 233 


 
 
 In 1302 Robert de Craunford died seised of a manor in South Newington , held for fee of the honor of Albemarle , and of a manor there held of John de Grey ( n . 31 ( 2 ) ) for fee ; Robert his son was aged 30 and more.70 In 1304 Osbert Giffard , knt . , had licence to grant to John Abel and Margery his wife and John's heirs the manor of Deddington held in chief of the king.71 Later ( ? ) the same Osbert granted a mill in Deddington and the advowson of the church to Sir Hugh le Despenser . 72 Subsequently John Abel enfeoffed Robert de Harwedene , clerk , of his manor of Deddington , which he had by the grant of Osbert Giffard , with the reversion of lands there which Sarah late wife of Osbert son of Osbert Giffard held in dower . 73 In 1310 John de Dyve died holding a third part of the manor of Deddington , with a decayed castle , of the king for a third part of 2 fees . Henry his son was aged 22 years . In 1315 Robert de Harwedon , king's clerk , had licence to enfeoff Hugh le Despenser the elder of a third part of the manor of Deddington , and for the feoffee to regrant it to the feoffor for his life with reversion to the said Hugh and his heirs.75 This became known later as the Windsor manor . In 1316 Henry de Dyve , Robert de Harwedon and the prior of Bicester were lords of Deddington ; Robert de L'Isle was lord of Heyford Warin ; 77 Robert de Craun ford , John Giffard and the master of St. John's hospital outside the gate of Oxford were lords of South Newington . 


 74 


 76 


 
 
 78 


 In 1327 Henry de Dyve of Wanneworth , Sussex , and Duckling ton , Oxon . , held at his death a third part of the manor of Ded dington with the members of the king in chief for a third part of 2 fees ; John his son was aged 7 years . 79 Dower was assigned to Marca the relict of Henry in the manor of Ducklington . 80 This third part of Deddington became known later as the Duchy manor . Robert de Craunford died in 1339 holding land in South Newington of the earl of Albemarle for fee and other land there of the honor of Arsic by rendering 10s . to the castle - guard of Dover ; Robert his son was aged 27 and more . 81 


 
 
 In 1346 Robert de Craunford held fee in South Newington ( of the honor of Albemarle ) and fee there ( of the honor of Arsic , as his predecessors had held it ) ; John Giffard of Tuyford held fee there ( of the honor of Albemarle ) .82 In 1368 William de Craun ford held fee in South Newington of Robert de L'Isle , which was late of Robert de Craunford . 83 


 
 
 1. Including Clifton and Hempton . 2. Red Bk . 309 . Hen . I , pass . 4. Eynsham Chartul . n . 124. 5. Cf. Cat . A. 7056 ; Bk . of Fees , 820 , 823. 6. Pipe R. 2 Ric . I , Oxon . R. 26. Hen III ; inform . of Mr. Salter . 


 9. See section n . 31 ( 2 ) . of Eynsham , nos . 17 , 84 . 14. Ibid . 8 Hen . II , 27. 15. Ibid . 16. Ibid . 17. V. C. H. Northants . i . 3686 . 18. Pipe R. 15 Hen . II , 85. 19. Ibid . 17 Hen . II , 134. 20. Ibid . 18 Hen . 21. Ibid . 22 Hen . II , 24. 22. Chartul . of Eynsham , n . 89. 23. Ibid . 


 II , 97 . 


 31-2 . 26. Round , R. de 28. Ibid . 21 Hen . II , 14 ; 30. Ibid . 29 Hen . II , 103 . Newington - L . Chs . ( Oxon . 34. Pipe R. 30 Hen . II . 116 . 


 
 
 8. See the next section , 31 ( 1 ) . 


 
 
 3. Pipe R. 31 of Anct . D. iv . 7. Cur . Regis 


 
 
 10. Placit . de quo war . 7b , 296. 11. Salter , Chartul . 12. Pipe R. 3 Hen . II , S2 . 13. Ibid . 6 Hen . II , 9 . 


 
 
 n . 90. 24. Ibid . n . 92. 25. Pipe R. 22 Hen . II , 


 Dominabus , 31 note . 27. Pipe R. 24 Hen . II , 30 . 28 Hen . II , 126. 29. Ibid . 27 Hen . II . 112 . 31. Citing Cott . MS . Vesp . E. xxv . 48. 32. Salter , Rec . Soc . ) , 64 . 33. R. de Dominabus , 31 . 


 
 
 • 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 250] ===
 
 
 234 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 35. Ibid . 31 Hen . II , 108 . 38. Pipe R. 2 Ric . I , m . 3 . Eynsham , n . 99 . 43. Ibid . 280 . 


 449 , 445 . 


 36. Ibid . 1 Ric . I , 109. 37. Feudal Cambs . ii . 251 . 39. Ibid . 8 Ric . I , m . 8d . 40. Chartul . of 41. Pipe R. Oxon . 10 Ric . I , m . 13. 42. R. Cancel . 275 . 44. R. Lit. Claus . i . 7. 45. Ibid . 235 . 46. Ibid . 2786 . 47. Ibid . 306. 48. Bk . of Fees , 318. 49. R. Lit. Claus . 617b . 50. Ibid . 633. 51. Bk . of Fees , 102-3 . 52. Ibid . 251 . 53. Ibid . 452 . 54. Ibid . 55. Ibid . 451. 56. Ibid . 460 . 57. Ibid . 100 , 103 . 58. Cal . Inquis . i . 27. 59. Cal . Pat . R. 1315 , P. 359. 60. Cat . of Anct . D. i . B. 1323 ; iii . A. 5018 , 5395. 61. Cal . Inquis . i , 299. 62. Ibid . 262. 63. R. Hund . ii . 36b . 64. Ibid . ii . 848b . 65. Ibid . 849b . 66. Cal . Inquis . ii . 139 d . 67. Cal . Pat . R. 314. 68. Cal . Misc . Inq . i . 367 . 69. Cal . Inquis . iii . 332 . 70. Ibid . iv . 75. 71. Cal . Pat . R. 235 ; Cat . of Anct . D. iii . A. 5802–3 . 72. Cat . of Anct . D. i . A. 933. 73. Ibid . iv . A. 6864. 74. Cal . Ing . v . 145 . 75. Cal . Pat . R. 303. Cf. Ibid . 1318 , p . 179. 76. Feud . Aids , iv . 164. 77. Ibid . 170. 78. Ibid . 163. 79. Cal . Inquis . vii . , 10 . 81. Cal . Inquis . viii . 164. 82. Feud . Aids , iv . 177 . 


 80. Cal . Close R. 377 . 83. Cal . Close R. 496 . 


 
 
 XXXI ( 1 ) . 


 Rainald in 1086 held of the fee late of earl William ( Fitz Osbern , sewer of Normandy and earl of Hereford ) in Fritwell 10 hides , Albury 3 hides , Wilhale 2 hides and Noke 2 hides ; all in Oxfordshire . 


 
 
 Rainald also held of the bishop of Bayeux in Somerton 9 hides and in Fritwell 6 hides , being associated in the former place with Wadard , whose name was added as tenant by interlineation . These lands passed , like other lands of Wadard , to the fee of Arsic . Rainald also held of Miles Crispin of Wallingford in Wilhale I hide and in Somerton 2 hides . These tenements continued as members of the honor of Wallingford , in the account of which ( n . 1 ( 3 ) ) Rainald is identified as son of Croc the huntsman of William I Henry I and lineal ancestor of Foliot . 


 Rainald's lands of the fee of William Fitz - Osbern descended to the Foliots of Chilton , Wilts . , and were held at the beginning of the 13th century of Fitz - Gerold . This superior tenure was doubt less derived from Matilda de Chesney , but in what manner it came to her is a subject of conjecture . Mr. Salter has shewn ¹ that Gilbert Foliot , bishop of Hereford ( 1148-1163 ) and bishop of London ( 1163-1188 ) , described William de Chesney and Robert de Chesney , bishop of Lincoln , as his maternal uncles , and conse quently that his mother was a Chesney . It is assumed that she was Hawise , one of the daughters of Roger de Chesney by his wife Alice , daughter of Ralph de Langetot . 


 
 
 Ralph Foliot , one of the knights of Brien Fitz - Count and Matilda his wife , attested the charter of a tenant of the honor of Wallingford about 1130-1140,2 and a charter of his lord , Brien Fitz - Count , c . 1142.3 Walter Foliot and Robert Foliot attested a grant by Matilda lady of Wallingford of land in Ogbourne , Wilts.4 There were other contemporary Foliots in Oxfordshire , in which county in 1165 Bartholomew Foliot gave 5 marks for the right of land.5 Before 1166 Walter Foliot held 2 fees of the honor of Wallingford ( n . 18 ) . It is probable that Robert Foliot was a brother of bishop Foliot , for in 1167 Chilton of Robert Foliot accounted for 20s . of the pleas of Alan de Nevill , justice of the 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 251] ===
 
 
 FRITWELL 235 


 
 
 9 


 forest , in that county . In 1176 Ralph Foliot was amerced 10 marks and Bartholomew Foliot 40s . for forest trespass in Oxford shire ; and a Ralph Foliot was similarly amerced 2 marks in Gloucestershire , the entry of his name following that of Walter de Chesney . During the period 1175-1180 , or perhaps earlier , William Foliot the seneschal and Walter Foliot attested a charter of Gilbert Foliot , bishop of London.10 In 1182 Ralph de Chesney , Roger Foliot , Roger de Oilli and Bartholomew Foliot were amerced in Oxfordshire as sureties in respect of certain beasts which had been stolen.11 


 
 
 Ralph Foliot I was undoubtedly Robert Foliot's successor . In 1199 he or his son Ralph II held 1 fee in Oxfordshire , 12 and in the following year the same Ralph held of the honor of Wallingford 2 fees ( in Chilton and the members ) , of which honor Walter Foliot held 21 fees.13 This Ralph gave to St. Frideswide's priory , Oxford , the church of Fritwell for the soul of Hawise his wife.14 He had brothers , Henry , Roger and Richard ; and dying about the year 1204 was succeeded by his brother Henry , who in 1219 quit claimed the advowson of the church of Fritwell to St. Frides wide's , 15 and confirmed to Richard Foliot land in Chilton , Wilts . , given by Ralph , his eldest brother , to the said Richard his brother.16 He also gave to Roger Foliot land in Soley , a hamlet of Chilton , in exchange for land given by his brother Ralph to the said Roger.¹7 Afterwards Richard Foliot gave to St. Frideswide's land in Soley late of Roger his brother , held of Henry Foliot , who confirmed the gift.1 18 As a tenant of the honor of Wallingford in Chilton and elsewhere Henry is frequently named in the records of the reigns of John and Henry III down to 1230-33 . He gave 30 marks in 1229 to be quit of transfretation and to have his scutage of 2 fees held of the honor of Wallingford ( n . 18 ) and of 3 fees of that honor of which he had the custody.1 He was dead in 1233 , when Andrew de Cancellis had wardship of his heir.20 Sampson his son and heir confirmed to St. Frideswide's land in Soley and Chilton given by Richard Foliot , and in 1241 he remitted the services due for that land.21 


 
 
 In 1234 Sampson had licence to appoint an attorney to do suit in his place to the county ( court ) of Oxford.22 In 1235-6 he paid 20s . in Wilts . to the aid in respect of the fees he held of the king in Chilton and Draycote of the honor of Wallingford , 23 and 6 marks for 3 fees in Oxfordshire held of the earl of the Isle of Christchurch.24 In 1242-3 he held 1 fee in Draycote of Henry Crok ; in Chilton ( or Mildenhall ? ) , Wilts . , Hugh de Dovre held fee of the said Sampson , who held of earl Richard ( of Cornwall ) as of the said honor.25 In Oxfordshire Roger Foliot held 1 fee in Fritwell and Lawrence de Broc fee there of Roger Foliot 26 ( who held both tenements of Sampson Foliot ) ; the same Sampson held fee in Noke , 27 Peter Foliot held fee of Sampson Foliot in Albury , 28 and Geoffrey Foliot held fee of the same Sampson in Wilhale.29 Sampson Foliot held these fees of the earl of the Isle . 


 
 
 In 1245 the service of 3 fees in Dorset and Somerset which Henry Foliot held of Baldwin late earl of Devon , and of 2 fees 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 252] ===
 
 
 236 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 which Sampson Foliot and Olimpiada de Wilton similarly held in Oxfordshire , was assigned in dower to Amice countess of Devon.30 In 1249 Sampson Foliot had a grant of free warren at Chilton.³¹ Re - tithing of the demesne of Sampson Foliot in Draycote was confirmed to the monastery of Wallingford in 1243.32 Geoffrey Foliot held in 1255 of Sampson Foliot fee in Wilhale , Oxon .; the same Sampson held in Fritwell 8 hides of the earl of the Isle and in Noke 2 hides of the same earl ; 33 in Albury Peter Foliot held the manor as 3 hides of the same Sampson for fee.34 In 1257 Samp son was in the Welsh campaign , 35 and in the following year was a commissioner in Berkshire.3 36 In 1257 he and Ralph his son had a plea touching land in Hardwell , Berks.37 In 1263 he was again . engaged in the war in Wales.38 In 1265 after Evesham his land in Noke , worth £ 10 , and in Fritwell , worth £ 15 , was seized by the earl of Gloucester , but it was alleged that he was never against the king.39 In 1267 he was sheriff of Oxfordshire , and four years later warden of the bishopric of Salisbury.40 


 4 


 In 1274 Geoffrey Foliot died seised of land in Wilhale , Oxon . , held of Sir Sampson Foliot for fee ; Joan wife of Nicholas de Cottelegh , aged 28 , Isabel her sister , Lorencia her sister , aged 24 , and Alice her sister , aged 16 and more , were daughters and heirs of the said Geoffrey ; Adam Foliot and Nicholas de Cottelegh had purchased the marriage of two of the said heirs.41 In 1275 Sampson Foliot held I fee in Chilton of the earl of Cornwall , and Henry Croc held similarly I fee in Draycote.42 


 
 
 1 


 The Oxfordshire fees may be traced in the Hundred rolls of 1279 as follows : Ralph Foliot held the moiety of the vill of Fritwell of the gift of Sampson Foliot , who held it of the countess of Wight for fee ; 43 Sir Sampson Foliot held the manor of Albury in the name of wardship as mesne between the countess of the Isle and Roger Foliot ; 44 Nicholas de Cottele held the manor of Wilhale of his wife's inheritance , she being daughter and heir of Geoffrey Foliot , for fee of Sir Sampson Foliot , who held of the countess of Devon and lady of the Isle ; 45 Sampson Foliot held a moiety of the vill of Noke ( ‘ Owe ' ) of the countess of the Isle for 


 
 
 fee ; 46 Somerton was of the fees of Arsic and Wallingford ; the remaining vills were of the last - named honor , except Campton . Sampson Foliot died shortly after this date , his heir or successor being Henry le Tyeis , son of Henry le Tyeis of Somerset , who died in 1282.47 The younger Henry was under age in 1284 48 he held in 1284-5 fee in Noke of the countess of Albemarle.49 


 
 
 1 


 2 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 In 1306 it was found that Peter Foliot had recently granted the manor of Albury to John de London , who before his death granted it to John le Despencer his nepos , then aged 36 years ; it was held of Henry le Tyeis for fee.50 In 1307 died Henry Tyeis holding the manor of Fritwell of the king , as of the earldom of Albemarle , then in the king's hands , for I fee , the hamlet of Noke in like manner for fee ; the manor of Shirburn as of the honor of St. Valery ; the hamlet of Hardwell of Henry de Cobham , who held of the abbot of Abingdon ; the manors of Chilton and Draycote Foliot , Wilts . , as of the honor of Wallingford ; Hawise his wife . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 253] ===
 
 
 # 


 
 
 FRITWELL - STANLAKE 


 237 


 had the manor of Hardwell in dower ; Henry his son was aged 22 years . 51 


 
 
 In 1316 Henry le Tyeis was joint lord of Fritwell , Noke and Shirburn , Oxon . , 52 and lord of Chilton , Wilts .; 53 John le De spenser was lord of Albury , Oxon . 54 Henry le Tyeis died in 1327 seised of the above described estates and many other lands in Cornwall and Yorkshire ; Alice his sister , late the wife of Warin de L'Isle , was his heir , aged 30 years . 


 55 


 In 1346 Gerard de L'Isle held the moiety of Fritwell of 


 
 
 4 


 for 1 fee , late of Henry Tyeys , and John de Alweton held the other moiety of the same earl for fee ; Alice de L'Isle held the moiety of the vill of Noke of the countess of Albemarle for fee , late of Henry Tyeys . 56 In 1368 Warin de L'Isle held of Robert de L'Isle 3 fees in Fritwell , Noke , Albury and Wilhale ; Lawrence Broke held similarly fee in Wilhale and John le Spencer held similarly 2 ( sic ) fees in Wilhale and Albury.57 


 2 


 
 
 137 , 153 . 


 29. Ibid . 106 . 


 
 
 9. Ibid . 129 . 


 1. Chartul . of Eynsham , i . 412. 2. Chron . of Abingdon , ii . 109. 3. Ken nett , Paroch . Antiq . i . 137. 4 Mon. Angl . vi . 1016. 5. Pipe R. 11 Hen . II , 69 . 6. Red Bk . 309. 7. Pipe R. 13 Hen . II , 128. 8. Ibid . 22 Hen . II , 32 . 10. Brit . Mus . Facsim . of Chs . n . 58. 11. Pipe R. 28 Hen . II , 127. 12. Red Bk . 124. 13. Ibid . 145 ; R. Cancel . 268. 14. Chartul . of St. Frideswide , ii . 219. 15. Ibid . 220. 16. Ibid . 359. 17. Ibid . 18. Ibid . 360 . 19. Excerpt . Fin . i . 188 . 20. Ibid . 239. 21. Chartul . of St. Frid . ii . 361 . 22. Close R. 548. 23. Bk . of Fees , 421 , 423 . 24. Ibid . 447 · 25. Testa , Testa , 100 , 105 . 28. Ibid . 105 . 


 26 . 


 27. Ibid . 104b . 


 30. Close R. 352. 31. Cal . Chart . R. i . 342. 32. Mon. Angl . iii . 280b . 33. R. Hund . ii . 43-5 . 34. Ibid . 386. 35. Cal . Pat . R. 598 . 36. Ibid . 647. 37. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 260. 38. Cal . Pat . R. 286. 39. Cal . 40. Cal . Pat . R. 170 , 514. 41. Cal . Inquis . ii . 42–3 ; 


 44. Ibid . 714 . 48. Plac . de quo 


 Misc . Inq . i . 262 . Cal . Fine R. i . 32 . 45. Ibid . 784. 46 . warranto , 81b . 51. Ibid . v . 26. 52 . 55. Cal . Inquis . vii . R. 496-7 . 


 42. R. Hund . ii . 260. 43. Ibid . 824 . Ibid . 838. 47. Cal . Fine R. i . 174 . 49. Feud . Aids , i . 157 . Feud . Aids , iv . 169–71 . 23-4 . 56. Feud . Aids , 


 
 
 50. Cal . Inquis . iv . 250 . 


 53. Ibid . v . 203 . 53. Ibid . v . 203. 54. Ibid . iv . iv . 177 , 180. 57. Cal . Close 


 
 
 XXXI ( 2 ) . 


 Anschitil ( de Grai ) in 1086 held of the fee of William ( Fitz Osbern ) , earl ( of Hereford ) , in Rotherfield Greys ( and the members ) , Oxon . , 5 hides , in Black Bourton 2 hides , in Radford 3 hides , in South Newington 4 hides , which Robert ( ) held of him , in Woodlay and Dornford ( ' Widelie ' ) , hamlets in Wootton , 2 hides , in Brighthampton ( and Stanlake ) 6 hides , in Cornwell 2 hides ( Oilli , n . 2 ) . 


 
 
 Some of these tenements were held by the family of Gray , of the Fitz - Gerolds and later of the earls of Albemarle . In the con firmation of Henry I to the abbey of Eynsham , made in 1109 , it was stated that when Richard de Grai sent one of his sons into the monastery he gave tithe of Dornford , Woodlay and Cornwell ; ¹ Roger de Chesney gave tithe of his land of Minster , namely of 1 hide afterwards called ' Murdakes - hyde . ' ² 2 After the middle of the 12th century Stephen de Pontsold and Alice his wife , daughter of Thomas de Grai , gave the church of Cornwell to the monks of 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 254] ===
 
 
 238 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 3 


 Eynsham . It is suggested that the lordship of these lands was granted to Ralph de Langetot and , by the marriage of his daughter and heir Alice to Roger de Chesney , the lordship descended to Roger's eldest son Hugh , and so to Matilda de Chesney and her husband Henry Fitz - Gerold the chamberlain ; while the tenure in demesne was vested in Anschetil de Grai and descended in his line to Eva daughter and heir of John de Grai and wife of Ralph Murdac III , and so subsequently as described below . 


 
 
 4 


 In 1130 Ralph Murdac II was pardoned 23s . 6d . of danegeld in Oxfordshire , which Mr. Salter identifies as Broughton Poggs 63 hides , held by Robert Fitz - Murdrac in Domesday , and Black Bourton 5 hides . Possibly his father Ralph I was recently de ceased , for in Yorkshire Adam Murdac owed a destrier for having the land of Ralph his uncle ( avunculus ) .5 Ralph son of Ralph ( ? ) Murdac and Beatrice ( ? ) de Chesney married Eva , daughter and heir of John de Grai , son of Anschitil de Grai . Apparently this union had been effected before the year 1176 , when John de Grai accounted in Oxfordshire for 40 marks for forest trespass , which amercement was pardoned to Ralph Murdac by the king's writ.6 This suggests that Ralph was already acting as a justiciar , which office he undoubtedly held in 1182. He became sheriff of Notting ham and Derby in 1180 , and held office until 1189. ' He was one of the justices in eyre in 12 counties in 1185,8 their activities being recorded in the Pipe roll of 1186. His sister Alice was wife of John de Eincurt of Blankney , Lincs . In 1187 he accounted for 40s . of scutage on 2 fees in Oxfordshire.10 He was one of 8 justices whose activities are recorded in the Pipe Roll for 1189.11 He supported John count of Mortain in 1193. Three years earlier he had made his peace with Richard by a fine of 200 marks , 12 of which £ 50 7s . 8d . remained unpaid at his death.¹ In 1195 Alan son of Rolland owed 20 marks for having seisin of 6 librates of land in Thenford , Northants . , which Ralph Murdac had recovered against him in the court of John count of Mortain for default of warranty of the king , who was then in his journey of Jerusalem.14 


 9 


 13 


 He died before Michaelmas 1198 , as shewn by an agreement enrolled on the Lancashire Pipe roll of 10 Richard I , whereby Peter de Wingeham and William de Bosevill quitclaimed their right in the inheritance of Robert Basset ( in Thenford ) to Andrew de Beauchamp and Eva ( de Grai ) his wife.15 This tenement in Thenford , Northants . , was held in the Northampton survey temp . Henry I by Robert Basset as I hide , held of the honor of Walling ford.16 It was perhaps the maritagium of the wife of John de Gray . It was held in 1235-6 by Eva de Gray.17 In 1199 William Briwerre proffered 210 marks for custodies of the lands late of Ralph Murdac and Walter de Glanvill , and for the marriages of their daughters at his pleasure.18 In the following year Andrew de Beauchamp , who , as we have seen , had married Ralph's relict , Eva de Grai , gave 50 marks for having seisin of the land of Then ford , of which the said Ralph had been disseised for his service to King John when he was count of Mortain , as also of his other lands.1 


 19 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 255] ===
 
 
 STANLAKE 239 


 
 
 Ralph Murdac III granted in 1173-4 to the monks of Eynsham hide at Filkins , Oxon . , for his mother's soul , quit of service , save when his demesne of Broughton Poggs ( Pogis ) did any.20 


 Ralph's most important grant was that of a third part of the mill of Clifton , as he held it in the 3 Richard I ( 1191-2 ) , and his mill of Broughton Poggs ; in case he or his heirs should be unable to warrant the said gifts he undertook if God gave him an heir by his wife Eva to make an equivalent exchange in his manor of Rotherfield Greys or Stanlake ; in case he had no heir by Eva his wife he or his heirs would make an exchange in their manor of Broughton Poggs or Black Bourton.21 This proves that Rotherfield and Stanlake were the inheritance of Eva de Grey and had not come from the Chesneys ; but it is difficult to understand how Ralph or his heirs could give an exchange in Black Bourton , for that too was Eva's inheritance . 


 
 
 26 


 Ralph left issue two daughters , Beatrice , 22 who afterwards married Robert Mauduit , by whom she had issue , and Alice , the name of whose first husband is unknown , whose daughter Isabel married Osbert Giffard , 23 sometime constable of the castles of Windsor , Odiham and Lincoln , 24 who died in 1229 ; after which date Alice married Ralph Harang.25 Eva de Grai , by her second husband , Andrew de Beauchamp , had issue John de Beauchamp . In 1214 the wood of Stanlake was committed to Andrew de Beauchamp , the bailiffs of the forest being enjoined to see that it was well kept.2 John de Beauchamp had a grant in 1223 of 10s . which the sheriff of Berks demanded from Eva de Gray his mother for the scutage of Biham.27 This John died before 1246 , when Ernald de Bosco , who had married Joan , sister of the said John , had livery of fee in Assington , Suffolk , as one of his heirs , and Joslain , son and heir of Joslain de Nevill by Matilda his wife , had livery of fee in the same Assington , as nephew and heir of the said John.28 In the same year the above - named Beatrice , Ralph Harang and Alice his wife , Ernald de Bosco and Joan his wife , and Joslain ( son of Joslain and Matilda ) had livery of the land and rent in Stanlake and Dornford , par . Wootton , which the said Eva de Gray had held of Baldwin late earl of Devon , whose heir was in the king's wardship , by the service of 4 fees.29 In 1245 the service of 1 fee in Dorset and Somerset and of I fee in Wiltshire , which Beatrice Murdac held of Baldwin late earl of Devon , was assigned in dower to Amice countess of Devon.30 In 1247 Ralph Harang had no estate in the land late of Alice his wife in Oxfordshire.31 For reference to the line of Joslain de Nevill see Richmond , n . 40 ; to that of Bois or ' de Bosco ' see Chester 85 , and to that of Dyve see Oilli , nn . 4 and 5. For the descent of the Greys of Rotherfield see Oilli , n . 2 . 


 I 


 
 
 In 1247 an inquest was taken after the death of Osbert Giffard II , lately deceased , who held , besides divers lands in the south - western counties , a fourth part of the manor of Stanlake held by Alice Murdac ( his wife's mother ) of Beatrice ( elder ) sister of the said Alice , a fourth of a moiety of the vill of Thenford , Northants . , similarly held , a third part of the manor of Deddington held by the said Alice for a third part of 2 fees , and rent in Dornford similarly held ; Osbert son of 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 256] ===
 
 
 240 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 the said Osbert by Isabel his wife , aged 13 years , was heir of the said Osbert and of Alice Murdac.32 It will be observed that whilst the heirs of Eva de Gray took equal parts of the Gray inheritance in Stanlake and Thenford , namely one - fourth each , only the heirs of the body of Ralph Murdac III took shares in the Chesney inheritance in Deddington . In that year Ralph Fitz - Nicholas gave 400 marks for custody of the land and heir of Alice Harang and Osbert Giffard with his marriage.33 


 
 
 To return to Eva de Gray : in 1230 she had a grant of a deer leap in her park of Stanlake and market and fair at her manor of Stanlake , and a royal gift of 2 harts from the forest of Wych wood in the following year ; 34 in 1232-3 further gifts of four does and two bucks to put into her park at Stanlake , and other gifts in 1233 and 1236.35 In 1235-6 she held 4 fees in Oxfordshire of the fee of the earl of the Isle of Christchurch.36 In 1237 , as Eva de Gray , mother of John de Beauchamp , she had a gift of 10 tree trunks from Wychwood for fuel.37 In the following year William de Dyve was impleading her for the moiety of a third part of 2 fees in Deddington.38 In 1242 the justice of the forest was directed to give Alice Murdac seisin of land in Gillingham , Dorset , because the king understood that Isabel late wife of Osbert Giffard , deceased ( mortua ) , had recovered custody of the land late of Osbert her husband in that place , because Osbert held them in socage and Isabel was next of kin ( propinquior ) to his heir , which Alice Murdac , Isabel's mother , was next of kin to Osbert's heirs after Isabel's death.3 39 Before 1240 Eva de Gray gave the manor of Rotherfield Greys to Walter de Gray , archbishop of York , who gave it to his mother Hawise and to Robert de Gray her son . Apparently the gift included other lands members of Rotherfield , for in 1246 the king confirmed to Walter de Gray , son of Robert de Gray and nephew of archbishop Walter , lands in Rotherfield , ' Baggerigge , ' Cornwell and Lew , which the archbishop gave to Robert his brother , father of the said Walter , and his heirs , with the advowson of the church of Rotherfield.41 


 40 


 
 
 I 


 In 1242-3 Eva de Gray held of the fee of the earl of the Isle 1 fee in Dornford and 1 fee in Stanlake ; the abbot of Oseney held of her 


 4 


 fee in Black Bourton , and Walter de Gray , archbishop of York , held I fee in Rotherfield Greys ( and its members ) ; the said Eva de Gray and Beatrice Murdac 42 held fee in Black Bourton of Patrick de Chaworth ; the archbishop of York held fee in Cornwell of the fee of Oilly.43 As already noted in section n . 31 , William de Dyve and Ralph Hareng ( in right of Alice his wife ) held 2 fees in Deddington of the king in chief . This Ralph was mesne tenant of fees in Bourton Clanfield and Puttes of the earl of Cornwall , as lord of the honor of St. Valery.44 In 1249 Ralph Fitz - Nicholas , having the wardship . of the land and heir of Osbert Giffard and Alice Murdac , obtained licence to levy a tallage from the tenants of the said heir in Dedding ton , which had been sometime the demesne of the king's prede cessors.45 In 1258 Robert Mauduit held 1 fee in Black Bourton of Patrick de Chaworth.46 It does not appear how Chaworth took the place of the earl of Albemarle as chief lord here . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 257] ===
 
 
 STANLAKE . 24I 


 
 
 1 


 2 


 In 1279 Sir Robert Mauduit held a hall and 2 carucates in Black Bourton of Sir John Mauduit , who held of Sir Pain de Chaworth for fee ; 47 the return for South Newington has been given above ( n . 31 ) ; Robert Mauduit held 1 carucate in the vill of Dornford of John Mauduit for fee , and he of the earl of the Isle ; William Murdack held 1 carucate there of John de Bois , he of John Mauduit and he of the earl of the Isle for fee ; the prioress of Studley held the hamlet of Woodlay ( ' Withele ' ) belonging to the vill of Dornford of Robert Mauduit in free alms of the gift of Eva de Gray for the support of a priest to celebrate mass for ever ; 48 Andrew Twynch held a messuage in Brighthampton of Sir Robert de Grey ; 49 Robert de Grey held the manor of Cornwell of the heirs of Stanlake and they of the countess of Albemarle ; 50 Sir John Mauduit held land in Stanlake for 3 fee of the countess of Wight ; Sir John de Boys held land there of Sir John Mauduit for 3 fee ; dame Isabel de Grey held land there of Sir Robert de Grey in the name of dower , and he of John Mauduit , who held of the countess of Wight by giving scutage ; Sir Osbert Giffard held land there of Sir John Mauduit for & fee.51 In 1284-5 Robert de Craunford held I fee in South Newing ton of Robert de Grey , who held of the king ; 52 Robert Mauduit held I fee in Dornford of John Mauduit and he of the earl of the Isle . 53 


 
 
 , 


 In 1285 Robert de Gray defended his right to certain liberties in Rotherfield Murdack ' and Harerigg ' ( recte Hardwick ) and cited the confirmation of those lands by Henry III to him , and the grant by archbishop Gray to Walter , father of the said Robert , of his lands in Brighthampton and Hardwick . 54 In 1303 John Mauduit died seised of the manor of Broughton Poggs held of the king by serjeanty and of a fourth part of the manor of Stanlake held of the honor of Carisbrooke for 1 fee , subject to a rent to William de Bois and others ; John Mauduit his nepos , aged 21 , was his heir . 55 John Mauduit rendered to the aid of 1303 for 1 fee in Stanlake with 6 virgates in Norton Brize . 56 


 In 1316 John Mauduit was one of the lords of Black Bourton , Stanlake and Brighthampton ; Florence de Varney and others were lords of Dornford with Woodlay ; Robert de Craunford , John Giffard and the hospital of St. John outside the gate of Oxford lords of South Newington . 57 The returns for 1346 are imperfect . In 1368 the following fees were held of Robert de L'Isle : William de Craunford held fee in South Newington , late ( 1346 ) of Robert de Craunford ; the heirs of Eva de Gray 1 fee in Dornford and 1 fee in Stanlake ; Lawrence de Broke fee in Stanlake ; the abbot of Oseney fee in Black Bourton of the heirs of Eva de Gray ; the archbishop of York I fee in Rotherfield Greys . 58 


 
 
 1. Chartul . of Eynsham , n . 7 ; Cf. 1. p . 2 . 


 4. Pipe R. 31 Hen . I , 6 . 7. Ibid . 27 Hen . II , 10 . 10. Pipe R. 33 Hen . II , 50 . 12. Ibid . 2 Ric . m . 3. 13. R. Cancel . 271 . 16. V. C. H. 19. Ibid . 48 . 


 
 
 3. Ibid . n . 116 . 


 22 Hen . II , 31 . 


 9. Ibid . 18-19 . 


 
 
 15. Farrer , Lancs . Pipe R. 102 . of Fees , 496. 18. R. de Oblat . 10 . 


 
 
 2. Ibid . n . 7 ; Cf. i . p . 2 5. Ibid . 34 . 6. Pipe R. 8. R. de Dominabus , 65 . 11. Ibid . I Ric . I. 69 . 14. Pipe R. 7 Ric . I , ro . 8 . Northants . i . 368b . 17. Bk . 20. Chartul , of Eynsham , 


 
 
 III . R 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 258] ===
 
 
 242 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 n . 94 . 21. Ibid . n . 90 . 22. She was sole in 1241 : Abbrev . Placit . 118 . 23. Close R. 1229 , p . 204 ; 1242 , P. 448 . 24. Pat . R. 1216-1228 , pass . 25. Ibid . 455 ; Cal . Inq . i . 290 . 26. R. Lit. Claus . i . 170 . 27. Ibid . i . 576b ; Excerpt . Fin . i . 177. 28. Ibid . 464. 29. Cal . Ing . i . 290 ; Close R. 389 ; Excerpt . Fin . i . 455 . 30. Close R. 352-3 . 31. Ibid . 32. Ibid . 27 . 33. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 19 , 27 . 34. Cal . Chart R. Close R. 348 , 549. 35. Ibid . 37 , 97 , 248. 36. Bk . of Fees , Close R. 467 . 38. Ibid . 137. 39. Ibid . 448. 40. Cal . Chart R. i . 250-1 . 41. Ibid . 293. 42. Testa , 103b - 4 . 43. Ibid . 105b . 44. Ibid . 103-4 . 45. Close R. 145. 46. Cal . Ing . i . 113 . 47. R. Hund . ii . 695. 48. Ibid . 865 . 49. Ibid . 701. 50. Ibid . 741. 51. Ibid . 702-3 . 52. Feud . Aids , iv . 155 . 53. Ibid . 156. 54. Placit . de quo war . 664-5 56. Feud . Aids , iv . 183 . 57. Ibid . iv . 162–4 . 


 537 . i . 112 , 121 ; 447 . 


 37 . 


 
 
 55. Cal . Ing . iv . 102 . 58. Cal . Close R. 496 . 


 
 
 XXXII . 


 The Domesday survey records that the king had in Shipton under Wychwood , Oxon . , 33 hides ; Alsi de Ferendene 8 , or probably 10 , hides ; Geoffrey had in the same Shipton and in Swin brook 4 hides ; Rainald Arcarius had in Chadlington 2 hides and Siward the hunter 2 hides ; total 531 hides , of which 50 may have represented Shipton and Chadlington . 


 In 1220 Shipton paid carucage on 271 carucates , Chadlington on 21 carucates , and Swinbrook on 5 carucates . 


 
 
 The Hundred rolls of 1279 show approximately 20 hides on the earl of Gloucester's fee in Shipton , and 24 hides in Chadlington , where also the countess of Aumale had 9 hides , Stephen de Walecote 63 hides in Walcot and Shorthampton , Roger de Ley and Alan de Cranele 5 hides in Swinbrook ; total 444 hides , all held of the earl of Gloucester . To this should be added 37 hides in Chadlington belonging to Spilsbury . 


 8 


 The early descent of this land in Chadlington , which was an escheat from the fee of Oilli , is obscure . It appears that part of the above tenement subsequently belonged to the honor of Clare and part to the honor of Curcy and that the residue of the vill belonged to the honor of Warwick . Proof that part of the vill was at one time in the king's hands seems to be afforded by the contribution in 1170 by the men of Chadlington and Weston of 40s . to the aid to marry the king's daughter . About 1160-70 Henry Fitz - Gerold the chamberlain confirmed the gift made to the monks of Eynsham by Richard Fitz - Gerold his brother of virgate here.2 After 1173 Matilda de Clare , for the soul of her husband Roger de Clare , earl of Hertford , and for the souls of her ancestors , confirmed this gift and that of certain parcels of land in Chadlington given by Henry Fitz - Gerold . This lady was a daughter of James de St. Hilary ; she subsequently married William earl of Arundel . Possibly a portion of the remission of 40s . of danegeld in Oxfordshire made in 1156 to Henry Fitz - Gerold was in respect of this land . His brother Warin's remission was then only 9s . in this county.4 


 In 1169 the 2 hundreds of Chadlington were amerced £ 4 for 2 murders.5 This was paid or pardoned as follows : 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 259] ===
 
 
 CHADLINGTON 243 


 
 
 By the hands of the sheriff Pardoned to the Hospitallers 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Richard de Luci . 


 Guy de Laval ( 1171 ) 


 " " 


 &gt;&gt; 


 By the sheriff in 1171 and 1172 Remaining upon the land of earl William ( of Gloucester , 1176 ) . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 S. d . 


 56 3 


 3 


 2 6 


 6 


 13 6 


 
 
 2 2 


 
 
 5 0 


 80 o 


 
 
 The last item may represent the sum due from the earl of Gloucester , in case he then held the manor of Shipton under Wych wood ; but it may refer to William earl of Arundel , Matilda de Clare's second husband . 


 
 
 6 


 Before 1198 Hugh bishop of Lincoln confirmed to Eynsham the chapel of Chadlington . In 1196 Henry de Witefeld , as tenant of a third part of the lands late of Robert de Witefeld in Whitfield , Rofford , Chadlington and elsewhere , granted to Robert de Eueresa and Isabel his wife , for her life , inter alia land in Chadlington and Dean ( in Spilsbury ) .7 


 
 
 In 1201 an imparlance between Warin Fitz - Gerold and the earl of Clare , plaintiff , concerning the land of Chadlington was put in respite until Warin's return from Santiago.8 


 
 
 At a subsequent date this tenement , or some part of it , was in the hands of John de Nevill the forester , one of the heirs general of Curcy . In 1220 Simon ( de Wahull ) paid carucage on 8 carucates here , ( Robert ? ) Belet on 7 carucates and William ( son of John } on 6 carucates.9 In 1227 John son of William recovered his land in Chadlington by replevin.10 Early in January 1229 Henry III confirmed to the priory of Cold Norton inter alia virgate in Chad lington of the gift of Robert Belet.11 In the same year Herbert de Chadelinton was demanding against Liniota late wife of William son of John virgate in Chadlington.12 In 1235-6 the land lately held by Simon de Wahull in Chadlington of John de Nevill the forester for 1 fee rendered to the aid then levied.13 It is possible that this tenement was a member of the honor of Curcy . See vol . i . p . 263 . Simon de Wahull ) 


 In 1242-3 Roger de Welton ( in succession to held I fee in Chadlington of John de Nevill.14 Walter de Wahull , son of Simon de Wahull , confirmed to Eynsham land of his fee in Chadlington given by John son of William.15 At the death of Richard de Clare , earl of Gloucester and Hertford , in 1262 , Baldwin de L'Isle held of him fee in Chadlington.16 


 
 
 In 1279 Reginald de Wautham held the hamlet of Chadlington of the countess of Albemarle and she of the earl of Gloucester for 


 
 
 fee , as a member of the earl's manor of Shipton under Wychwood ; the heirs of Walter de Wahull held the manor of Chadlington of the countess of Albemarle for 1 fee ; 17 John de Honinton held certain land in Chadlington of Robert de Penedok , who held of the earl of Warwick , doing suit to the court of Spilsbury and scutage.18 


 At the death of Gilbert de Clare , earl of Gloucester and Hertford , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 260] ===
 
 
 244 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 in 1295 the heirs of Baldwin de L'Isle held of him fee in Chadling ton.19 In 1302 John de Haudlo had a grant of free warren in Chadlington and Shippenhull , 20 and in 1302-3 Isabel relict of John Fitz - Nigel held the manor of Chadlington Wahull for I fee.21 John son of Nigel , who held the bailiwick of the forest of Bernwood , died in 1289 , when John his son had livery of his father's lands and office . 22 


 The relationship between Fitz - Nigel and Haudlo is shewn by the record of licence granted in 1299 for John Fitz - Nigel to settle 2 bovates in Boarstall and the bailiwick of the forestership of Bern wood , held in chief by serjeanty of keeping that forest , on himself for life , with remainder to John son of Richard de Hautlo and Joan daughter of the said John Fitz - Nigel in fee tail.23 


 
 
 I 


 In 1316 John de Haudlo was lord of Chadlington Wahull with Shippenhull , 24 and in the same year Richard de Ouvill and Nicholas de Aston held 1 fee in Chadlington of Guy de Beauchamp , earl of Warwick , and John de Wytefeld held fee in the same , Richard de Ouvill fee there ( as above ) , and Nicholas de Aston and John le Venour held each & carucate for fee each , as of the manor of Spilsbury.25 


 2 


 Long before his death , which occurred in 1346 , John de Haudlo settled his manor of Chadlington on himself for life , with remainder to Richard his son ( deceased before 1346 ) and Isabel wife of the same Richard ; by which gift the manor remained to the said Isabel , who had subsequently married Robert de Hildesle ; it was held in 1346 of John de L'Isle for I fee.26 The grantor held very large estates , including the bailiwick of the forest of Bernwood . În 1346 Robert de Hildesle held 1 fee in Chadlington of the fee late of the earl of Albemarle.27 Edmund de Haudlo , son of Richard and Isabel named above , died in 1358 , seised inter alia of the manor of Chadlington , which he held of Sir John de L'Isle ; Margaret , aged 22 , and Elizabeth , aged 16 , were his sisters and heirs , but Robert de Hildesley and Isabel his wife , mother of the said Edmund , held the manor for the life of Isabel.28 In 1368 John de Appelby held I fee here of Robert de L'Isle.29 


 
 
 1. Pipe R. 16 Hen . II , 68. 2. Chartul . of Eynsham , n . 133. 3. Ibid . n . 130. 4. Pipe R. 2 Hen . II , 37. 5. Ibid . 15 Hen . II , 85. 6. Chartul . n . 40A . 7. Oxon . Feet of F. ( Pipe R. Soc . xvii ) , 115. 8. R. Cur . Reg . iii . 417 . 9. Bk . of Fees , 317. 10. R. Lit. Claus . ii . 212. 11. Mon. Angl . vi . 421b . 12. Close R. 382. 13. Bk . of Fees , 449. 14. Ibid . 842 ; Testa , 106. 15. Chartul . 


 
 
 n . 395. 16. Cal . Ing . i . 159. 17. R. Hund . ii . 736b , 738. 18. Ibid . 7476 . 


 19. Cal . Inq . iii . 248. 20. Cal . Chart . R. iii . 40 , 44 . 


 22. Cal . Fine R. i . 257-8 . 


 23. Cal . Pat . R. 430 . 26. Ibid . viii . 492-3 . 


 
 
 25. Cal . Inq . v . 402 , 408 . 28. Cal . Inq . x . 243. 29. Cal . Close R. 496 . 


 
 
 21. Feud . Aids , iv . 161 . 24. Feud . Aids , iv . 165 . 27. Feud . Aids , iv . 184 . 


 
 
 XXXIII . 


 Anschetil in 1086 held of the bishop of Coutances in Lavendon I hide and virgate . 


 } 


 For reference to lands which Anschetil held of the countess Judith in Lavendon and Weston Underwood , Bucks . , see Huntingdon , n . 64 , where an attempt is made to explain the descent of fee of the honor of Huntingdon in those places to the L'Isles of Rougemont . 


 
 
 7 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 261] ===
 
 
 FARTHINGHO 245 


 
 
 XXXIV . 


 Earl Aubrey ( de Coucy ) late ( i.e. before 1086 ) held of the king in Farningho or Farthinghoe , Northants . , 4 hides . 


 In the Northamptonshire survey temp . Henry I ( 1124-29 ) there were 4 hides in Farningho of the fee of the earl of Leicester.¹ Robert earl of Leicester gave or confirmed to the abbey of La Pré , Leicester , before 1156 , the church of Farningho.2 In 1205 King John confirmed to the same abbey the gift of Robert earl of Leicester , son of Petronilla , of the lands of Farningho and Syresham , Northants . , namely Westcote , which earl Robert his grandfather gave to the church of Lincoln in exchange for the manor of Knighton , Leics . , and the suburb of Leicester , which said lands the said earl son of Petronilla with the assent of the bishop and chapter of Lincoln gave to the canons of Leicester for their lands of Asserby ( ' Effordeby ' ) and Seagrave , which he gave with the assent of the canons to the church of Lincoln for the establishment of peace between them about the said manor of Knighton and suburbs of Leicester.3 In the pre ceding year the king restored the land of Farningho and Syresham to the earl of Leicester , which had come into his hands because neither the earl nor the canons of Lincoln would have it , owing to the dispute about Knighton . In or before 1216 the king gave these manors to Theodore de Sotingham.5 


 4 


 
 
 9 


 In 1229 Amaury de St. Amand and Geoffrey son of William , plaintiff , had a plea of land in Farthingho , which plaint was re spited in 1232 because Amaury was about to cross the seas in the king's service . In 1235-6 there was I fee here of the fee of Roger de Quency of his part of the honor of Leicester , and in 1242-3 Ralph de St. Amand , of Farthingho , William L'Abbe , and the monks of St. Denis held of the said Roger I fee in Farthingho . After the death of earl Roger de Quency in 1264 it was found by inquest that Warin Fitz - Gerold ( Gerard ' ) held 1 fee in Farthingho , 10 and by another inquest that I fee there was defended by the countess of Albemarle and that Ralph de St. Amand , Geoffrey Cardun and William Abbot held it in equal shares , but wardship did not pertain to the earl by reason of many mesne tenants.11 In 1276 Ellen la Zouche claimed return of writs and the like in this place.12 


 In 1284 Ralph de Seynt Amaund , William Abbe , and Peter de Borle held 1 fee in Farthingho with a virgate in Purston of the countess of Albemarle , who held it of Ellen la Zouche or the earl of Winchester.13 In 1291 land in Farthingho was recovered by replevin by William son of William Abbot and Rohaise his wife.14 In 1314 Robert de L'Isle held 1 fee and the abbot of Leicester fee here of Alan la Zouche.15 Two years later Robert de Holand was lord of Farthingho and other La Zouche manors in Northampton shire.16 In 1326 William de Bereford held a carucate here of Robert de L'Isle for fee ; Edmund his son was aged 28 and more.¹7 In 1329 the abbot of Leicester proved his right to gallows and warren at Farthingho , and Matilda relict of Robert de Holand to view of frankpledge and the like in Farthingho , a member of the manor of 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 262] ===
 
 
 246 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 Hawes , by descent from Robert of Meulan , earl of Leicester , to her father Alan la Zouche.18 


 
 
 I 


 In 1346 William de Stapulton held 1 fee here of Henry de Ferrers.19 Edmund de Bereford died in 1354 holding the manor of Farning hoe of John de L'Isle of Rougemont ; his heirs were his three sisters.20 John son of Edmund de Bereford , knt . , died in Gascony in 1356 holding a messuage and 6 virgates here of Robert de L'Isle for fee ; Baldwin his brother was aged 24 years . 21 In 1368 the tenants of Farthingho held 1 fee there in common of Sir Robert de L'Isle . 22 


 
 
 1. V. C. H. N'hants . i . 368. 2. Cal . Chart . iii . 379. 3. R. Chart . 145 . 4. R. Liberate , 85. 5. R. Lit. Claus . i . 261. 6. Close R. 385 . 9. Ibid . 940. 10. Cal . Inq . i . 233 . 


 123. 8. Bk . of Fees , 494 . 256. 12. R. Hund . ii . 6 . 15. Cal . Ing . v . 256-7 . 18. Placit . de quo war . 525 , 550. 19. Cal . Inq . viii . 318. 20. Ibid . x . 212 . 21. Ibid . 273. 22. Cal . Close R. 498 . 


 7. Ibid . 11. Ibid . 14. Cal . Close R. 188 . 17. Cal . Inq . vi . 470 . 


 13. Feud . Aids , iv . 3 . 16. Feud . Aids , iv . 19 . 


 
 
 XXXV . 


 William brother of Roger de Otburvill held in 1086 in Ringshall , Suff . , 1 carucate and 40 acres , of which Hugh held 40 acres of the said William ; Fulk held of the same William 80 acres . 


 
 
 Possibly some part of this tenement was held by the family of Amblie ( n . 1 ) . As Otbert is an early form of Osbert we can identify the Domesday tenant in chief as of Auberville , anciently Osberteville , in the Calvados . William de Aubervill held Barley , Herts . , at the date of the Domesday survey . Clutterbuck gives the descent of his line.¹ According to a pleading of 1286 , given below , William's eldest son died without issue , and the shares of his two younger sons descended to the families of Rokele and Willasham . 


 
 
 In 1196 Matilda de Willavesham released to Ralph her son 48 acres of land in Ringshall ( Renkeshall ' ) , Suff . , in return for a demise to her for life of a mill there.2 Auschen de Ringeshale was party to a fine of land in Ringshall in 1198.3 


 In 1236 ( ? ) Brian son of Aunsel held of Margaret de Rivers fee in Ringshall and William de Auberevill similarly held I fee there.4 In 1242-3 Brian de Ringeshale held fee , and Robert de Willakesham I fee , in Ringshall of Margaret de Rivers.5 In 1247 Brian de Ringes hale and Margery his wife were pardoned the moiety of a crown debt . Brian was sometime the bailiff in Suffolk of Peter of Savoy ,? and in 1256 gave a mark of gold for a charter of warren , for being quit of the seal , for acquittance of having an assize and for respite of knighthood , at the instance of Peter of Savoy ; he died within the year . 8 


 
 
 William de Aubervill was deceased in 1248 , when the king took the homage of Henry de Sandwic for the lands he ought to hold of the king by reason of Joan his wife , daughter and heir of the said William ; he had livery of his wife's inheritance in Kent , Norfolk and Suffolk . In the following year Reginald de Evermuth gave 40 marks for the recovery of the lands in Kent which his wife Is ( abel ) 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 263] ===
 
 
 RINGSHALL - MILTON ON STOUR 247 


 
 
 held in dower of the lands late of William de Aubervill , which had been seised into the king's hands because Reginald had married her without licence.10 


 
 
 According to the record of a plea de quo warranto in 1286 neither of the persons named in 1236 , as tenants of fees in Ringshall of the honor of Albemarle , held those fees of inheritance , for Richard de la Rokele and Robert de Wyllasham , being then required to prove their title to view of frankpledge and the like in Ringshall , declared that one William de Aundevill , who came with William the Conqueror , was in seisin of those liberties and had issue William , Peter and Jordan ; William died without issue and his right descended to Peter , as brother and heir , who afterwards gave his pourparty of the inheritance to one William de la Rokele , father ( sic ) of Richard the defendant , whose heir he was ; that the right of Jordan's pourparty also descended from the said Jordan de Aundevill to Matilda his daughter and heir , and so to Robert ( sic ) her son and heir , and so to Ralph as Robert's son and heir , and so to Ralph as Ralph's son and heir , and so to Robert de Wyllasham , the other defendant , as Ralph's son and heir.¹¹ 


 
 
 Partial confirmation of this descent is supplied by the record of a fine in 1196 quoted above . Robert de Willavesham has been named above ( n . 1 ) as owner of land in Somersham and Elmsett in 1287,12 in which places Roger de Oburvill held lands at the Domesday survey . 


 In 1302 Lucy de Wylasham held fee in Ringshall of Guy Ferre , who held of the countess of the Isle of Wight ; Richard de la Rokele held fee there of the same countess.13 


 
 
 In 1346 Ralph de Wylasham held fee in Ringshall of the lady Ferre , who held of the heirs of the countess of the Isle of Wight ; John de la Rokele similarly held fee there.14 In 1368 the heirs of Richard de Rokele held fee there.15 


 
 
 1. Hist . of Herts . iii . 381 ; Glanville - Richards , Records of Glanville , 53 . 2. Feet of F. ( P.R.S. xx . ) , 149. 3. Ibid . xxiv . 22. 4. Bk . of Fees , 608 . 5. Testa , 290b . 6. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 7. 7. R. Hund . ii . 191 . cerpt . Fin . ii . 227. 9. Ibid . 28. 10. Ibid . 51. 11. Placit . de quo . war . 


 8. Ex 


 13. Feud . Aids , v . 53 . 


 14. Ibid . 


 728 . 12. Cal . Inquis . ii . 397 . 15. Cal . Close R. 497 . 


 
 
 XXXVI . 


 Roger held of William de Falaise in Milton on Stour , ¹ Dorset , 3 hides in 1086 . 


 
 
 This tenement may have descended to Margery de Rivers from the line of Curcy of Stoke Curcy . 


 fee in 


 In 1236 ( ? ) Ralph de Hauvill held of Margaret de Rivers Milton.2 William des Forz died in 1259 seised of [ ] fee of Mortain in Milton which Roger de Aumale held of him ; Matilda de Kyme , late wife of the said William , had the manor of Shepton Malet in dower.3 In 1285 Robert de Aumale held fee of Mortain in Milton of the heirs of Hugh de Vivonia as of the barony 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 264] ===
 
 
 248 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 4 


 of Chewton . In 1303 Thomas de Aumale held the same of the small fees of Mortain of Joan de Vivonia.5 He was one of the lords of this place in 1316.6 


 
 
 In 1318 the manor of Milton by Gillingham , Dorset , and certain manors in Somerset were settled upon Thomas de Aumale and Cecily his wife and the heirs of Thomas . " 


 Richard de Flory held this fee in 1346.8 


 
 
 1. Hutchins , Dorset , iii . 626 , for names . Inquis . i . 298 ; Collinson , Somerset , iii . 462 . 


 32. 6. Ibid . 40. 7. Dorset Feet of F. i . 


 
 
 2. Bk . of Fees , 607 . 3. Cal . 4. Feud . Aids , ii . 22. 5. Ibid . 325. 8. Feud . Aids , ii . 52 . 


 
 
 XXXVII . 


 Edward held of Alvric the king's thegn in 1086 in Great Crawford , in Spettisbury , Dorset , 2 hides . 


 In 1242-3 a fee in Great Crawford was held of the fee of Matilda ( sic ) de Rivers.¹ 


 In 1288 John de Mohaut had land here by the gift of Joan de Mohaut his mother.2 In 1303 John de Mohaut and another held 1/4 fee here . In 1311 he held fee here of Henry de Lascy , earl of Lincoln , and in the following year fee here of Nicholas de Pointz . * In 1316 John de Mohaut and the abbot of Préaux were lords of Crawford . 5 


 2 


 In 1346 John Frelond held the Mohaut holding here . " 2. Dorset Feet . of F. i . 207 . 4. Cal . Inquis . v . 157 , 195. 5. Feud . Aids , ii . 44 . 


 1. Testa , 160b . 


 
 
 3. Feud . Aids , ii . 28 . 6. Ibid . 47 . 


 
 
 XXXVIII . 


 Eudes the sewer in 1086 held Eaton Socon , Beds . , as 20 hides , of which 7 hides were in the demesne , and Tedbald , a man of countess Judith , claimed I hide of which Eudes disseised him ; in Sandy 16 hides and I virgate . 


 Eudes gave to his monastery of St. John the Baptist at Colchester inter alia half the tithe of Eaton and two - thirds of the tithe of Sandy.¹ At his decease in 1130 his land in Bedfordshire and mainly elsewhere escheated to Henry I , who held it in 1130 , when the sheriffs of Bedford and Buckingham claimed allowance in the account of the danegeld of 1129 in the demesne of Eudes the sewer of £ 4 8s.2 In the ensuing year it is possible that the remission of danegeld made in the demesne of the land which Hamon de St. Clare kept , namely 38s . 5d . , and in the queen's land , 47s . 6d . , 3 covered the manors of Eaton Socon , Sandy , and some other part of Eudes ' Bedfordshire fee . The remission of 1129 represented that on 44 hides , which approxi mated closely to the Domesday assessment of the then demesne of Eudes , after deducting 1 hide in Eaton , but including his holdings in Wyboston , Chawston and Tempsford . 


 There are indications that the St. Clares held this fee at fee farm during Stephen's reign . It may be conjectured that Hugh de Beauchamp , the first of Eaton Socon , was a knight of Henry son of 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 265] ===
 
 
 EATON SOCON 249 


 
 
 4 


 7 


 the empress , and that when his lord attained to the crown of England he was rewarded by a grant of Eaton Socon and Sandy . He appears to be the Hugh de Beauchamp of the Pipe rolls of the early years of Henry's reign . Thus in 1156 he had remission of 20s . of the danegeld of Huntingdonshire , 4s . of that of Hertfordshire and 12d . of the donum of that county ( 60 marks ) ; 5 £ 22 Is . 3d . of the danegeld of Bedfordshire and Buckinghamshire , and £ 7 7s . Id . of the donum of those counties and Bedford borough ( 110 marks ) .6 Again in 1158 he had remission of 40s . of the donum of those two counties ( £ 80 ) . The remission of danegeld in the same counties in 1156 was upon 220 hides and 21 virgates , which would suggest that he then had custody of some very extensive fief within these counties , possibly that of Beauchamp of Bedford . Simon de Beauchamp of Bedford , uterine brother of Geoffrey de Mandeville , second earl of Essex , cannot have been of age until 1166 , as his mother Rohaise de Vere married Simon's father Pain in 1144 , on the death of Geoffrey de Mandeville , first earl of Essex , her first husband . For this connexion see Round's Geoffrey de Mandeville ( p . 392 ) . For the descent of the Beauchamps of Eaton Socon see the account of that family by Dr. G. Herbert Fowler in The Publications of the Bedfordshire Historical Record Soc . ( vol . ii . ) and The Genealogist ( vol . xxix . , Oct. 1912 ) . 


 8 


 In the account of the issues of the lands of Simon de Beauchamp of Bedford in 1159 , Hugh de Beauchamp ( of Eaton Socon ) was pardoned 53s . 4d . out of 88 marks of the gift of the knights of the barony of Bedford , equal to the levy in respect of 2 knights ' fees of that honor . In the same year Hugh was pardoned 16s . 8d . in respect of the fee that he held of the abbot of Ramsey 9 in Little Barford , Beds . , which Eudes the sewer had held of the abbot in 1086 and Osbern de Leyham had held under Eudes . See Eudes the sewer , n . 2. Again in 1162 Hugh was pardoned 62s . out of 124 marks due from the knights of the honor of Bedford for the scutage then being levied , 10 and I mark more in the ensuing year in Huntingdon shire . In 1162 he had remission of £ 4 14s . in respect of danegeld in the counties of Bedford and Buckingham , and 31s . out of £ 36 of scutage due from the honor of Bedford.11 He had also a gift of £ 20 out of the issues of the honor of Chester.12 In 1165 Richard Fitz Osbert , one of the farmers of Bedfordshire , received an allowance of 10 marks for the like sum taken from his farm for the land of Hugh de Beauchamp ' ; also out of Hugh Gubion's fine in Northamptonshire 45 marks were given to the same Hugh for Hugh de Beauchamp.13 These gifts and remissions clearly identify the recipient as Hugh de Beauchamp of Eaton Socon , to whom Henry committed the custody of the castle of Rhuddlan at the termination of the successful campaign against the Welsh in 1157.14 Pertinent to Hugh's position in Wales are two entries on the Pipe roll of 1167 , one referring to £ 10 due to the keeper of the honor of Fitz - Alan , of which the earl of Chester and Hugh de Beauchamp had deforced him , and the other to a payment of 20 marks out of the issues of the honor of Boulogne to Hugh de Beauchamp for munitioning his castles of Wales.15 These particulars indicate that Hugh was a trusted servant of Henry . 


 C 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 266] ===
 
 
 250 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 In 1166 Hugh de Beauchamp held 1 fee of the honor of Simon de Beauchamp of Bedford of the old feoffment and 1 fee of new feoff ment ; 16 of the abbot of Ramsey he held 5 hides in Little Barford , Beds . , which he still held in 1184-1187 ; 17 and of William de Say of Kimbolton and Sawbridgeworth he held 1 fee.18 In 1172 Hugh seems to have been farmer or keeper of Bridgenorth.19 In the ensuing year he and Hugh de Lascy were constables of Verneuil.20 Possibly Hugh was the tenant at this time of 1 fee of the honor of Mortain in the bailiwick of Coutances.21 A MS . in the British Museum records that Simon de Beauchamp , son of Hugh de Beau champ , first baron of Bedford after the Conquest , begat Hugh called Agrinomis ( sic ) who married the heir of the baron of Eaton ( Socon ) , to whom Pain de Beauchamp his uncle gave Beauchamp ( Bellum Campum ) of Normandy and 10 librates of land in England , namely Dilwick ( in Stagsden , Beds . ) for 1 fee to him and his heirs.22 On the Hereford Pipe Roll of 1179 Mosse the Jew was invok ing the aid of the king's court to recover a debt of 10 marks against Hugh de Beauchamp.23 Reference to Alda daughter of Hugh de Beauchamp , and in 1185 relict of William Maubanc , will be found under Chester , nos . 3 and 121.24 Dr. Fowler cites Hugh's gifts in alms , including that of a croft in Eaton to the monks of St. John's , Colchester , in compensation for any wrongs done to them forcibly and for absolution of the same . He also confirmed the monks in their possession of tithes of Eaton of the gift of Eudes the sewer , whom he described as his antecessor . ' 25 


 I 


 &lt; 


 
 
 2 


 
 
 In 1186 Hugh went on the crusade and was slain at the battle of Hittin ( 4 July , 1187 ) .26 He married Philippa daughter of Geoffrey de Trailli , who gave for the souls of her said father and Hugh de Beauchamp , her deceased husband , to the abbey of Wardon the land of her maritagium , namely in Southill and Broom , Beds . , her charter being attested by Miles and Richard de Beauchamp , her sons . 27 She also confirmed to Wardon land given by her husband Hugh in Ravensden , being of her maritagium.28 


 Besides the sons here named , Hugh had issue an eldest son Oliver , who confirmed to the monks of Colchester two - thirds of the tithe of his demesne in Sandy.29 Dr. Fowler shews that Oliver had issue by Agnes his wife , Hugh , Roger and Henry , and a daughter Olive . The first named , as Hugh de Beauchamp , son of Oliver , confirmed to the monks of Wardon the gift of his grand father , Hugh de Beauchamp , in respect of which the monks were to do forinsec service to the lords of Bedford.30 He founded the Augustinian priory of Bushmead apparently about 1199 , when he was a sick man . That the date of foundation was subsequent to 1196 is proved by the reference in a contemporary charter of Roger de Beauchamp , the founder's brother , to a gift for the soul of Reginald de Stacheden , 31 who was living in 1195-6.32 Dr. Fowler shews that Hugh had a grant of the escheated land of Osbert Martel in Eaton Bray and Edlesborough . See Giffard , n . 20 . In 1194 Hugh de Beauchamp had pleas in Bedfordshire with Hugh de Welleboef and William de Einesford the younger ; 33 in both cases he essoigned himself of sickness of the bed at Hinton , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 267] ===
 
 
 EATON SOCON 251 


 
 
 Wilts.34 William de Einesford the younger complained that Hugh and Eleanor his ( i.e. William's ) mother detained from him his whole inheritance by reason of the dower of his said mother ; she was not willing to answer without her said husband.35 In 1196 Hugh gave £ 5 to escape service beyond seas in respect of 2 fees ( in Eaton and Sandy ) .36 Two years later Philippa de Belchamp owed 10 marks not to be constrained to marry.37 In 1198 William de Lanvalay impleaded Hugh de Beauchamp of a plea of land in Bedfordshire.38 In 1200 there was reference to a cirograph between them touching the barony of Eaton ; 39 the pleadings shew that plaintiff had demanded against Hugh the vills of Eaton and Sandy , with the demesnes and homages which ought to descend to him . from Hamon de St. Clare , grandfather of his wife Gunnor , who held them at the death of Henry I ; he claimed to hold them of the king at fee farm for £ 40 rent ; Hugh put himself on the grand assize.40 This confirms the surmise made above that the St. Clares had held Eaton prior to the time of Henry II . The result of the plea was evidently in Hugh's favour . A document cited above suggests that Hugh his grandfather had married an heiress of the St. Clares and so acquired this barony . 


 In the foundation charters of Bushmead priory and plea rolls of 1199-1200 are references to several tenants of the barony , namely Simon de Pateshull . William Daneis , Richard de Beau champ , William de Bretevill , Adam de Chauton , Lawrence de Sefort , Jordan Orfevre of St. Neots and Geoffrey de Costintin ; among the witnesses of the founder's charters may be noted Geoffrey de Bretevill , Hugh de Vieuxpont and Reginald de Baa ( Bathonia ) . 


 In 1208 the king confirmed to Robert de Braibroc among many other estates the following lands given to him by Hugh de Beau champ , son of Oliver : land in the Old Park of Eaton between land of Simon de Potte and land of Richard de Costentin ; many parcels of land in Eaton ( described ) with entry and exit between the wood of William Daneis ( Dacus ) and land of Richard de Beauchamp from his house of Cadebury to those lands ; also 1 virgate of villeinage in Eaton.41 


 I 


 In 1214 Hugh accounted for £ 4 of the scutage of Poitou for 2 fees in Eaton and 75s . for 1 in Edlesborough.42 He returned to allegiance , but was deceased by 3 May , 1217 , when the homage of Roger de Beauchamp was taken for the land late of Hugh de Beau champ his brother , as the same Hugh had held it at the beginning of the war between king John and the Barons , and especially of the land of Roxton , which was of the maritagium of Roger's grand mother.43 In 1221 he had his writ of the scutage of Bisham , having been with the king in that army ; 44 he had also been in the army of Newark in 1218.45 


 
 
 Roger died in 1221 , and on 6 December of that year John son of William , nephew and heir of Roger de Beauchamp , fined with the king in £ 10 for seisin of Eaton and Sandy , which belonged to him by inheritance.46 This sum was apparently the normal relief for 2 knights ' fees ; the usual relief for a barony may have been waived by reason of the heir's poverty . John was of the family 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 268] ===
 
 
 252 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 of Mandevill of Black Notley , near Braintree , Essex . The pedigree . is thus stated in a plea of 1239 cited below : William de Mandevill , who had a son Geoffrey , who had a son William , who had a son John de Beauchamp [ occurs 1221 as above ] , who had a son William . de Beauchamp , the plaintiff in 1239. From the number of descents it is obvious that the first William mentioned must have been living at the very beginning of the twelfth century . He was thus prob ably the son of the Walter who in 1086 held of Geoffrey de Mandevill in Black Notley , Terling ( Ridley Hall ) , Great Waltham ( Chatham ) and Broomfield , and possibly others . This Walter was a Mandevill , as appears by a charter by which Walter de Mannavilla and Gunnild his wife gave to St. Alban's a third part of the tithes of ( Black ) Notley , Broomfield , Chatham and Ridley.47 Matthew of Paris . says the gift was made in the time of abbot Paul ( 1077–93 ) .4 48 


 Of William , probable son and successor , nothing is known beyond the statement in the plea that he had three sons - Walter ( s.p. ) , Gilbert and the above - named Geoffrey . Walter de Mande vill gave to Holy Trinity Priory , or Christ Church , Aldgate , the churches of Black Notley and Broomfield ; 49 the latter gift being made before 1147 , when Eugenius III confirmed it.50 Walter was living in 1166 , when he held 4 knights ' fees in Essex of Geoffrey earl of Essex.51 Walter's first wife A. occurs in one charter ; 52 her name was Atheliz , as appears by a grant which Walter made with her consent to the Hospitallers of 6 acres in Broomfield in 1153 ; the witnesses included Gilbert de Mandevill and Geoffrey his brother . 53 Walter's widow was Mirabilis de Brumfeld , 54 who was still living in 1190 , when her brother Michael Fitz - Oger was acting for her . 55 


 
 
 Ranulf son of Walter's brother Gilbert is said in the plea to have succeeded ; he confirmed the church of Broomfield to Christ Church by a deed still extant and bearing his equestrian seal with . legend - Sigill ' Randulfi de M.56 His then wife was Roese , but his widow was named Milicent , and it should be stated that in 1212 she gave a different descent for Ranulf , saying that his uncle was Walter's father , unless avunculus is a clerk's error for 57 avus . Ranulf was succeeded by Gilbert ( plea as cited ) , and he by Thomas de Mandevill , named in 1210,58 122759 and 1239. In this last - named year occurred the plea cited for the descent ; in it Thomas had to defend his right to Black Notley , Broomfield & c . against William de Beauchamp . The latter asserted that his ancestor Geoffrey was elder brother of Gilbert the great - grandfather of Thomas . 60 The matter was settled by fine in 1240 , William receiving a carucate of land out of the whole inheritance . 61 Black Notley & c . descended regularly in the line of Thomas , and in 1302 another Thomas de Mandevill held 4 fees in Broomfield , Black Notley and Great Waltham of Humphrey de Bohun , earl of Hereford . 62 


 Turning to this William's line , we find that his grandfather William son of Geoffrey was in possession of land in Roding , Essex , in 1200,63 in which year he proffered 50 marks for confirmation of his charters , 64 and the same year obtained the king's confirmation of the gift made to him by Hugh de Beauchamp of all the grantor's 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 269] ===
 
 
 EATON SOCON 253 


 
 
 land in Chellaston , Derbys . , of his fee in marriage with Olive sister of the said Hugh , and to the heirs of the said William and Olive , to hold of grantor for fee.65 In 1209 he proffered £ 500 in Essex for the king's goodwill . 66 In 1212 he held fee in Derbyshire . 67 From that county it was presented in that year that Melbourne was the ancient demesne of Henry II , who gave it to Hugh de Beauchamp I ; Hugh gave to the canons of Calke 2s . rent , to the church of Melbourne I virgate , to Oliver de Waldeboef 50 solidates of land in Normanton which the grantor then held of the king in chief , to another a rent in the same vill ; that after the decease of Hugh de Beauchamp I , Hugh his son held the vill of Melbourne by his father's gift ; that afterwards came Oliver his eldest brother and claimed the manor , but they made agreement whereby Hugh quitclaimed to his brother Oliver 100 solidates of land in Chellaston , which Oliver gave to William son of Geoffrey with his daughter ( Olive ) in marriage , and that the same William then held it by the king's confirmation , as above . 68 In 1216 his land in Derbyshire was committed to William de Meleburne.69 


 He died before 7 August , 1220 , when his son , John son of William Fitz - Geoffrey gave 5 marks for inquiry if his said father had been disseised of 1 carucate in Chellaston by reason of the ( Barons ' ) war and if the said John was his next heir . 70 This was found to have been the case and that king John had committed the land to William de Meleburne , whose brother John then held it ; where upon John son of William had seisin.71 As noted above he was found to be nephew and heir of Roger de Beauchamp of Eaton in 1221 . 


 
 
 1 


 4 


 
 
 ' 


 In 1231 an agreement was concluded whereby John de Beau champ of Eton ' granted to Ralph bishop of Chichester his land in Roding for 10 years from Michaelmas in that year.72 In 1233 John de Beauchamp levied a fine of land in Roding and 2 years later put in his claim , as John de Beauchamp of Roding , in a fine of land in that place.73 In 1235-6 the collectors of the king's sister's aid accounted for 8 marks of 61 fees of the fee of John de Beauchamp of the barony of Eaton . 74 


 John was deceased prior to 7 January , 1236 , when Ralph bishop of Chichester , then the chancellor , had a grant of the custody during the minority of the heirs of the land and heirs of John de Beauchamp with the marriage of the heirs.75 


 
 
 In 1239 William de Beauchamp , son of John , was plaintiff in the plea cited above , and in 1241 he acknowledged that land in Sandy and the advowson of the church there were the right of the prior of Caldwell as of the gift of John de Beauchamp , father of the said William , whose heir he was ; Simon de La More and Matilda his wife put in their claim.76 


 In 1240 John de Burgh and Hawise ( de Lanvaley ) his wife made by fine a quitclaim of their right ( see the claim made in 1200 ) to the following tenants of the barony of Eaton and their respective tenements , except the homage and service of Robert de Wauton and Sarra his wife and her heirs for a tenement late held by them of William de Beauchamp . Hugh de Beauchamp and the others . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 270] ===
 
 
 254 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 named had lately vouched to warranty William de Beauchamp against the said John and Hawise . " 7 


 
 
 Hugh de Beauchamp Prior of Caldwell 


 Prior of the Hospitallers 


 
 
 Matilda late wife of Robert de Turevill 


 
 
 Geoffrey Bloch 


 Eudes de Beauchamp 


 Alice de Vieuxpont , warrantor of the prior of Caldwell Osbert de Bathonia 


 
 
 The same Osbert vouched to war ranty by Agnes de Bathonia William de Matan 


 
 
 chamberlain 


 Matilda his wife 


 Nigel de Radewell and Amfelisia 


 his wife 


 
 
 Geoffrey de Teyl 


 Simon de Pateshull 


 Henry le Despenser 


 
 
 Robert de Sandeye 


 Geoffrey le Oysilur John de Haueden 


 Richard Godinoch 


 Robert de Wauton and Sarra his 


 wife 


 Gerald de Furnivall and Christiana his wife 


 2 


 Robert de Besevill and Isabel his 


 wife 


 Warin the 


 
 
 and 


 
 
 HAHAHA H 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 HMHS ) H H 


 
 
 I 


 
 
 I 


 
 
 " " 


 " " 


 advowson of the church of 


 Sandy . 


 Ι 


 I carucates and mill in Sandy . 


 I virgate in Sandy . 


 2 carucates in Eaton . 


 
 
 I 


 
 
 1KO 


 
 
 carucate in Eaton Socon . 


 Sandy . 


 Eaton . Sandy . 


 
 
 HHH - ~ 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 I 


 
 
 دو 


 
 
 12 


 
 
 I 


 
 
 carucate in Eaton . Eaton . 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 29 


 " " 


 virgate in Sandy . 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 " " 


 II acres " " 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 ( See n . 38 ) 


 ( See n . 38 ) 


 
 
 2 carucates in Eaton . 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 ( See n . 38 ( 5 ) ) 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 39 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 1302-3 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 FEES OF THE ANCIENT FEOFFMENT . 


 I242-3 


 fee 


 Nicholas de Cernes 


 I ( See n . 38 ( I ) ) 


 Hugh son of Oliver de Edeles biri [ Eddlesborough ] , in Bucks 


 Adam de Beauchamp [ in same ] 81 Hugh de Andevill , fee less 


 I virgate in Kenemond wick 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 در 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 virgate in Sandy . 


 
 
 In 1242-3 William de Beauchamp of Eaton held Eaton Socon with the barony of the king in chief.78 


 The following are the returns from the barony of Eaton to the Gascon scutage of 1242-3 79 and the aid of 1302 : 


 80 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 fee 


 
 
 1 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 271] ===
 
 
 EATON SOCON 255 


 
 
 : 


 
 
 1242-3 


 Thomas son of Bernard , in 


 Beeston 


 Thomas de Barging 


 Heirs of Ralph de Tyvill , in Ickwell 


 Heirs of Nicholas de Anestye Walter de Karon , in Eaton Prior of Caldwell William de Beauchamp 


 
 
 William Wischard 


 Abbot of Wardon , 2 hides Lady of Clifton 


 Simon de la More claims to have his demesne quit 


 
 
 Osbert de Bathonia , 2 hides . in Wyboston for 


 
 
 } 


 
 
 Simon de Pateshull , I caru cate 


 
 
 C 


 
 
 Robert de Wauton , I carucate Ermentrude , 4 virgates 


 
 
 William Pinceware , hide Reginald de Costentein , hide } Geoffrey de Bretevill , 1 virg . ( n . 38 ( 1 ) ) 


 Geoffrey de Tylia , 2 virg . Richard de Beauchamp , virg . in Chawston 


 
 
 virg . [ in Clifton ] 


 Prior of St. Neots , 4 virg . Robert de Besevill Richard son of Robert Prior of Caldwell 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 FEES OF THE NEW FEOFFMENT . 


 
 
 I 


 
 
 Ralph Ridel , virg . Prior of the Hospitallers , 4 


 
 
 fee 


 
 
 in 


 Eaton 


 
 
 Mart 


 
 
 HHH 


 
 
 V 


 
 
 ** 


 
 
 11 


 
 
 fee 


 
 
 12/05 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 + = +40 


 
 
 1+ 


 
 
 .alms 


 
 
 I302-3 


 
 
 ( See n . 38 ( 4 ) ) ( See n . 38 ( 4 ) ) 


 
 
 ( See n . 38 ( 7 ) ) 


 ( See n . 38 ( 8 ) ) 


 Heirs of Osbert de Caronn 


 Prior of Caldwell 


 · 


 Tenants of lands of Will . de Beauchamp 


 ( See n . 38 ( 9 ) ) ( See n . 38 ) ( See n . 38 ( 1 ) ) 


 ( See n . 38 ( 1 ) ) 


 
 
 Ralph son of William ( de Grey stoke ) ( n . 38 ( 6 ) ) Prior of Bushmead 


 
 
 Robert de Wauton Roger de Stoke Heirs of Robert de 


 Foleby 


 
 
 Robert de Wauton 


 Teants of late Ermentrude's 


 lands 


 
 
 Heirs of Will . Pyncheware 


 John de Costentyn . 


 
 
 Ellen de Teyl 


 
 
 late of Juliana de Beauchamp 


 
 
 Christina Pati , wife of Will . 


 de Kirkeby John Ridel 


 See n . 38 ( 2 ) 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Tenants of same lands 


 
 
 fee 


 
 
 } 


 
 
 11 


 
 
 17/05 


 
 
 مسلنا 


 
 
 fee 


 
 
 0 


 
 
 17/1/5 


 +0 


 
 
 1155 


 
 
 하바나 


 
 
 19 


 
 
 12/1/20 


 
 
 -10-16 1 


 
 
 40 


 
 
 про 


 
 
 In 1245 William de Beauchamp of Eaton was temporarily dispossessed of his land for taking part in the prohibited tourna ment at Cambridge . 82 In 1255 , after a plea brought against him . by Geoffrey abbot of Wardon , complaining that William de Beau champ of Bedford distrained the said abbot for suit of court and aids in respect of the latter's tenements in Stagsden , Dilwick , Southill and Stanford , William acknowledged by fine that the abbot should hold of him the tenements in Stagsden and Dilwick for 


 fee or 13s . 4d . at a scutage of 40s . , and those in Southill and Stanford in free alms.83 As Dr. Fowler has stated , these lands were parcel of the barony of Bedford ; evidently William de Beau champ of Eaton was mesne in these places between the baron of Bedford and the abbot of Wardon . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 272] ===
 
 
 256 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 William de Beauchamp died in the spring of 1259 ; 84 in the following year wardship of his lands during the minority of William his heir was granted to Joan his relict for the maintenance of the heir and other children.85 In 1266 the marriage of the heir was granted to William de Clifford , king's clerk , 86 who presented himself to the church of Sandy in 1267 , and in 1268 assigned his wardship of the heir of Eaton to Richard de Ewell , king's serjeant . 87 


 In 1276 Ralph de Beauchamp held the barony of Eaton , Ralph de Beauchamp of Roding Beauchamp being presented in 1275 as having view of frankpledge and the like.88 In 1276 it was presented . that William de Beauchamp of Eaton had ( long before ) appro priated warren in Sandy.89 Ralph de Beauchamp held 1 fee in Sandy in 1284-6,90 and John de Boeles held of him in Eddles borough , Bucks . , fee , John de Beauchamp fee there of the same . Ralph , and the prior of Caldwell fee there similarly.91 In 1287 Ralph defended his claim to view of frankpledge and waif ; he stated that Eaton was the caput of the barony he held of the king and Sandy was another manor of his barony , that he claimed those and other liberties by prescription , and free warren by the grant of Henry III in 1223 to William de Beauchamp , his father . 92 In 1291 the earl of Cornwall gave to the rector and brethren of Ashridge his land in the vill of Eddlesborough of the fee of Ralph de Beauchamp . 93 Ralph died in 1294 holding the manor of Eaton by barony for I fee and the manor of Sandy pertaining to the said barony ; Roger his son was aged 22 years . 94 


 
 
 4 


 4 


 In 1302-3 the rector of the house of Ashridge held fee in Eddlesborough , Philip le Botiler fee there of the said rector ; John de Boeles fee there ; the prior of Caldwell and the heirs of William Neybor fee there.95 Roger de Beauchamp held Eaton with the barony for 2 fees . In 1316 the same Roger was returned as lord of that vill.96 He and his brother William and others were indicted by Alice late wife of William le Latimer in 1309 for trespass in her warren at Eaton ( Socon ) and Catbury.97 Roger and Alice his wife and Ralph de Beauchamp were charged with assault at Roxton in 1313. 98 William the warrener of Roger de Beauchamp of Sandy and John son of Roger de Beauchamp were charged in 1316 with breaking the park of Bennington , Herts.99 Roger was on the commission of the peace in Bedfordshire in 1327.100 In 1328 Roger de Beauchamp was certified as having done homage and fealty to the king.101 In 1330 he defended his claim . to certain liberties in Eaton and Sandy , and cited the grant of Henry III to William de Beauchamp , his grandfather , of free warren , market and fair at Eaton.102 În 1334 land in Eaton Socon was held of Roger de Beauchamp.103 In 1338 Roger de Beauchamp of Eaton , knt . , John de Beauchamp of Wyboston , Beds . , Richard , Thomas , and John his sons , and others of Wyboston and Eaton , were charged with assault.104 


 In 1336 licence was granted for the alienation in mortmain by Roger de Beauchamp of 2 messuages and lands in Eaton and Sandy to two chaplains to celebrate daily , one in the church of St. Swithin , Sandy , and the other in the chapel of St. Mary , Eaton 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 273] ===
 
 
 EATON SOCON 257 


 
 
 ( Socon ) , for his soul and his ancestors ' souls.105 In 1343 the same Roger , as of Eaton , knight , acknowledged a debt of £ 200 to John de Engayne , knt . , and at the same time obtained licence to enfeoff the same John of the manor of Eaton , £ 4 of rent excepted , and 5 messuages with the reversion of the £ 4 of rent expectant on the death of Ralph de Beauchamp.106 In 1346 the same John and Roger and their tenants held 2 fees in Eaton by barony.1 


 107 


 John de Engayne , knt . , of Dillington died in 1358 seised of the manor of Eaton , acquired as above , which had been settled on the said John for life , with remainder to John de Engayne , knt . , his son and Joan his wife ( dau . of Sir Robert Peverel ) and their issue it was held of the king in chief for 1 fee ; also of the manor of Sandy , which had been settled on deceased for life , with remainder to Thomas de Engayne his son and Katherine his wife and their issue it was similarly held for 1 fee ; John the son was deceased and William de Colvill , knt . , had married Joan , who survived ; Thomas son of John de Engayne the elder was the next heir , aged 22 and more.108 


 : 


 
 
 31 


 1. Chartul . ( Roxburghe Club ) , 2 . 4. Ibid . 2 Hen . II , 14 . 4 Hen . II , 140 . 


 104 . 


 7 Hen . II , 12 . 


 2. Pipe R. 5. Ibid . 20 . 8. Ibid . 5 Hen . II , 22 . 11. Ibid . 8 Hen . II , 41-2 . II Hen . II , 22 , 96. 14. Rob . of Torigni , 195. 15. Pipe R. 13 Hen . II , 72 , 157. 16. Red Bk . 320-1 . 17. Ibid . 370 ; Chartul . of Ramsey , iii . 48 , 218. 18. Red Bk . 373. 19. Pipe R. 16 Hen . II , 133. 20. Robt . of Torigni , 257. 21. Red Bk . 636 ; Stapleton , Norman Excheq.ii . 530. 22. Add . MS . 24465 , n . 307. Inform . of Dr. G. H. Fowler . 23. Pipe R. 25 Hen . II , 41 . 24. R. de Dominabus , 30 . 25. Chartul . 148. 26. Roger of Howden , 27. Chartul . ( John Rylands Lib . ) , f . 94b . 28. Ibid . 93 . 30. Chartul . f . 95. 31. Mon. Angl . vi . 382 . 32. R. Cur . 33. Ibid . 103 , 106–7 . 34. Ibid . 115 , 120 . 35. Abbrev . 36. Pipe R. 8 Ric . m . 15d . Cur . Reg . iii . 68ff . 39. Ibid . 227 ; cf. ii . 279 . Chart . 18ob . 42. Dr. Fowler , cit . Pipe R. 12 John . 


 37. Ibid . 10 Ric . m . 1d . 38. R. 40. iii . 340 . 41. R. 43. R. Lit. Claus . Excerpt . Fin . i . 76 . ( Rolls Ser . ) , ii . 56 ; 


 46 . 


 51. Red Bk . 345 . 


 Chart . 67 . 


 68. Bk . 


 i . 3036 , 308. 44. Ibid . 475. 45. Ibid . 3796 . 47. Mon. Angl . ii . 220. 48. Chron . Mon. S. Albani . Walsingham . 49. Mon. Angl . vi . 154. 50. Ibid . 52. Cott . Ch . xiii . 18 ( Broomfield ) . 53. Nero E. vi . f . 332d . 54. Anct . D. ( P.R.O. ) , A. 6943 ( seal ) . 55. Ibid . A. 6944 . 56. Ibid . A. 6942 ; see also Cott . Ch . xxvii . 53 ; Mon. Angl . vi . 309 . 57. Curia Regis R. 56 , m . 23 . 58. Ibid . 53 , m . 2 . 59. Assize R. 229 , n . 50 . Roese then wife of Richard de Canning was probably Thomas's mother . 60. Curia Regis R. 120 , m . 10d . 61. Essex F. of Fines , 127. 62. Cal . Misc . Ing . i . 509. 63. Essex Feet of F. 23. 64. R. de Oblat . 67. 65. R. 66. Pipe R. 11 John , m . 17d . 67. Red Bk . 183 . of Fees , 152. 69. R. Lit. Claus . i . 289. 70. Excerpt . Fin . i . 51. 71. R. Lit. Claus . i . 441. 72. Cal . Chart . R. i . 139 , 178. 73. Essex Feet of F. 92 , 108. 74. Bk . of Fees , 460. 75. Cal . Pat . R. 134. 76. Feet of F. , Beds . n . 446. 77. Ibid . n . 458 , note by Dr. Fowler . of Fees , 888 . P. 251. 82. Close R. 363. 83. Feet of F. , Beds . n . 551. 84. Ex cerpt . Fin . ii . 298. 85. Ibid . 343 ; Cal . Pat . R. 131 . 87. Ibid . 49 , 183 . 88. R. Hund . i . 5 , 153. 89. Ibid . 3b . Aids , i . 3. 91. Ibid . 74. 92. Placit . de quo war . 3b . 93 . ii . 384. 94. Cal . Ing . ii . 110. 95. Feud . Aids , i . 102-3 . 97. Cal . Pat . R. 128. 98. Ibid . 61. 99. Ibid . 588 , 592 . 101. Cal . Close R. 279. 102. Plac . de quo war . 51b . 103. Cal . Inquis . vii . 404 . 104. Cal . Pat . R. 181 ; Cal . Close R. 618. 105. Cal . Pat . R. 315. 106. Cal . Close R. 86 ; Cal . Pat . R. 7 , 24 . 107. Feud . Aids , i . 34. 108. Cal . Inquis . x . 342 . 


 78. Bk . 81. Cf. Close R. 1229 , 


 79. Ibid . 80. Feud . Aids . i . 15 . 


 86. Ibid . 604 . 90. Feud . Cal . Chart . R. 96. Ibid . 15 , 18 . 100. Ibid . 89 . 


 
 
 ii . 316 , 325 . 29. Ibid . 149 . Reg . i . 375 . Placit . I. 


 
 
 Hen . I , 103 . 6. Ibid . 23 . 9. Ibid . 55 . 12. Ibid . 20 . 


 
 
 3. Ibid . 7. Ibid . 10. Ibid . 13. Ibid . 


 
 
 III . S 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 274] ===
 
 
 258 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 XXXVIII ( 1 ) . 


 William de Carun held of Eudes the sewer in 1086 in Temps ford , Beds . , 4 hides and I virgate , in Southill virgate , in Stanford ( in Southill ) 4 hides , in Clifton 6 hides . Ulmar of Eaton ( Socon ) held most of this land T.R.E. Eudes himself held in Tempsford 1 hide and 1 virgate . 


 Before the summer of 1119 Robert de Carun gave to St. John's , Colchester , a mill in Clifton.¹ Possibly in or before 1104 he had given a rent of 10s . from the mills of Tempsford to the same priory.2 


 
 
 In 1129 Robert de Carun gave to St. Neots a holme of his manor of Tempsford and , when Anselm the priest , his nephew , took the habit , gave to the same monastery , with the assent of Adeliza his wife and William his son , the church of Tempsford with a virgate of land , & c.3 Another son , Walter de Carun , with the assent of his wife Emma and son Robert , confirmed the gift of the church , and gave further land in Tempsford , which Ralph de Karun confirmed.5 William de Carun gave 5 acres for the soul of Robert his father , with the assent of his brother , Walter , of whom he held the fee . Emma seems to have had a previous husband , Hugh de Brettevill , with sons Hamon and Geoffrey . ? 


 4 


 9 


 In 1130 Robert de Carun had accounted under Bedfordshire for 69s . for the land of Ralph his brother , possibly the balance . from an old account . In Devonshire Richard de Greinvill owed a destrier for having the wardship of Robert de Carun's son , probably not the Robert of Clifton.9 In Norfolk Ralph de Carun accounted for 7 marks of the pleas of Geoffrey de Clinton.10 From this Ralph possibly descended Ranulf de Karun , who held in 1166 of Hubert de Rye 3 fees , and of Robert de Aubigny 1 fee jointly with 2 others.11 John de Carun attested a charter of Robert de Aubigny issued at Cainhoe circa 1135. 12 Ranulf de Carun accounted in 1159 by the sheriff of Norfolk for £ 4 for some plea.13 


 In 1179 the sheriff accounted for 20 marks from the county of Bedford for a duel unjustly adjudged between Juliana and William Carun.14 In 1189 Richard de Carun owed 50 marks for fine of his land of Sherrington , Bucks.15 For reference to this branch of the family , see vol . i , p . 261 . 


 In 1199 both William de Carun and John de Carun had pleas of land in Bedfordshire with William Loherenge.15a In 1201 John de Carun gave 6 marks to escape service over seas in respect of 2 fees in Bedfordshire.16 He died before 1208 , when Hugh his son and heir was a debtor to a Jew of London.17 Hugh son of John de Carun confirmed his ancestors ' gifts to St. Neots , and added others.18 His widow Matilda in 1225 remitted her dower right in the abbey lands.19 


 
 
 8 


 
 
 In 1217 the sheriff of Bedford was directed to give Amice de Carun ( ' Crum ' ) such seisin of a mill in Tempsford as she had before the war between the king and the barons.20 Ranulf de Carun of Buckinghamshire died before the end of the year 1224 ; he had 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 275] ===
 
 
 TEMPSFORD 259 


 
 
 been in the army of Bedford , wherefore Beatrice his relict was not to be distrained for scutage of that army in respect of 1 fee held of the king in chief , but she and Ranulf's heir were acquitted.21 The same Beatrice gave £ 80 for wardship of the land and son and heir of the same Ranulf with the marriage of the said heir . 22 In 1226 3 Miles de Carrun had a plea with Robert de Sutton respecting fee in Clifton , Beds.23 In 1227 John de Lohereng granted by fine to Walter de Caron 2 hides in Tempsford , of which one of the under tenants was Geoffrey de Bretevill.24 


 In 1231 Amice de Carun was attached to answer Elizabeth , Lucy and Margery , daughters and heirs of Hugh de Carun , touching waste made in her dower lands in Hardwick and Clifton , Beds . , of the endowment of John de Carun , her late husband and grandfather of the complainants , whose heirs they were.25 He and William de Creppinges were in Gascony in 1226 in the king's ser vice.26 It may be surmised that Amice married Nicholas de Cerne . In 1230 Nicholas de Cernes was pardoned scutage of 3 marks in each of 5 fees which he held of John de Beauchamp ( of Eaton ) in chief in Tempsford and Clifton.27 In 1232 John Le Lohereng acknowledged the right of Nicholas de Cerne in land in Tempsford which he held of the said John's gift for fee.28 


 
 
 29 


 In 1241 Walter de Caron quitclaimed to Geoffrey de Bretevill , whom Robert de Bretevill vouched to warranty , land in Tempsford , for which Geoffrey gave Walter a tenement in Roxton of virgate.2 In the same year Margery daughter and coheir of Hugh de Carun was wife of Robert de Mora , and in 1246 Elizabeth her sister was wife of William de Creppinges ; in the last - named year they made exchanges of tenements in Tempsford and Clifton , with the consent . of Matilda late wife of Hugh de Carun , father of the said Margery and Elizabeth.³⁰ In 1235-6 John de Carun contributed 4 marks in respect of 2 fees in Bucks to the aid levied that year . 


 31 


 Possibly the heir of Ranulf de Carun , who died in 1224 , was Robert de Carun , who acquired writs in 1239 to sue pleas in Bedford shire together with Flandrina his wife.32 In 1242-3 John de Carun held 2 fees in Sherrington , Bucks . , of the king in chief ; 33 Nicholas de Cernes held 1 fee ( in Tempsford and the members ) in the name of dower with his wife.34 


 
 
 In 1250 John Carun held in Sherrington 2 carucates and in villeinage 7 virgates of the king by fee of the hauberk ; he also held land in Oxsted , Surrey.35 In 1259 John Blundel assured to Richard Blundel tenements in Tempsford which Richard held of John's gift.36 In 1270 Richard Blundel assured to Roger de La Leye by fine a messuage and a carucate in Tempsford of the said Richard's gift.37 


 1 


 Martin le Carun of Sherrington occurs in 1285.38 In 1284-6 Robert de Carun held in Tempsford 1 fee of Ralph de Beauchamp of Eaton ; Nicholas de Cernes held 1 fee there of the same Ralph and fee there of the bishop of Lincoln.39 In 1289 Martin Carun of Buckinghamshire acknowledged a debt to William son of Roger de La More.40 In 1291 Ralph son of Hugh le Persone of Tempsford was pardoned his outlawry for the death of Thomas son of William 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 276] ===
 
 
 260 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 Caroun , 41 and William Fitz la Persone of the same sought to replevy his land in Tempsford , seized for his default against Henry de La Legh of Tempsford.42 Nicholas de Cernes died in Bedford prison in or before 1293 , accused and afterwards convicted of the death of Hugh de Legh ; he held land in Tempsford as in 1284-6 and parcels of land of various people , including the heirs of Robert le Caron ; after the offence he fled , when his lands and chattels were seized.43 In 1298 Robert son of William le Caron of Hardwick by Shefford , Beds . , and Lucy his wife brought an appeal against certain of their neighbours.44 Robert Carun died before 1297 , when the abbot of Stratford recovered his seisin of 2 mills in Tempsford against Roger de Cantelupe and Agnes his wife , Miles le Drayton and Joan his wife , which Agnes and Joan were heirs of Robert Carun and then under age.45 Roger Carun of Sherrington demised his manor of Sherrington for a term of years prior to 1298.46 He died in 1301 holding the manor of Sherrington for 2 fees of the king in chief ; Sibyl his daughter was aged under 2 years and Joan his wife survived.47 


 
 
 48 


 In 1302-3 Roger de Cantelupe and Miles de Drayton held ? fee in Tempsford ; John de Cernes ( Sernys ) and the prior of St. Neots held land there of Roger de Beauchamp of Eaton and also of the bishop of Lincoln.4 Some light is thrown on the descent of part of this fee by a plea ' de quo warranto ' in 1330 , when Hugh de Bray and Ada his wife defended their claim to view of frankpledge in the manor of Tempsford by descent from William de Bretevill , who enfeoffed John Blundel and he enfeoffed Roger de La Leye , who died seised but without issue , when it descended to Walter his brother and heir , and so to Henry son and heir of Walter , and from Henry to Roger his son and heir , and from Roger to Ada his daughter and heir , then claimant with her said husband.49 


 
 
 In 1316 Roger de Cantelupe , Miles de Drayton , Roger de La Leye and the prior of St. Neots were lords of Tempsford . 50 Roger de La Leye died in 1323 holding a messuage and 2 carucates in Tempsford of the prior of Wallingford for 40s . rent ; Adam his son was aged 16 years.51 


 
 
 In 1315 John de Burgh and others were indicted by Roger de Pateshull , parson of the church of Bletsoe , to whom the king had committed the custody of the land and heir of Roger Carun , with the marriage of the heir , with breaking into the manor house of Sherrington , abducting Sibyl daughter and heiress of the same Roger , a minor , and marrying her against the will of the said Roger de Pateshull , 52 As John de Burgh was in 1316 one of the lords of Sherrington , 53 it is probable that he married the said Sibyl . This surmise is justified by a writ of seisin issued in 1314 for John de Burgh and Sibyl his wife , daughter and heiress of Roger de Carom of Shirrington , of the land of the said Roger , as Sibyl had proved her age and her husband had done fealty for the said land . 54 


 
 
 In 1346 Agnes de Cantelupe and Geoffrey de Drayton held fee in Tempsford of the king in chief ; John Morice and the prior 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 277] ===
 
 
 CLIFTON - HENLOW 261 


 
 
 of St. Neots also held fee there partly of the bishop of Lincoln and partly of Roger de Beauchamp ( of Eaton ) .55 


 
 
 1. Chartul . of Colchester , 6. 2. Ibid . 13. 3. Mon. Anglic . iii . 473b ; Chartulary , Faustina A. iv . f . 83. 4. Chartulary , f . 83d . 5. Ibid . f . 84 . 6. Ibid . 7. Ibid . ff . 83d , 85. 8. Pipe R. 31 Hen . I , 103 . 9. Ibid . 155 . 10. Ibid . 92 . 11. Red Bk . 324 , 400. 12. Chron . of Abingdon , ii . IOI . 13. Pipe R. 5 Hen . II , 11. 14. Ibid . 25 Hen . II , 78. 15. Ibid . 1 Ric . I. 35 15a . R. Cur . Reg . i . 234 , 274. 16. R. de Oblat . 156 . 17. R. de Fin . 441 . 18. Faustina A. iv . f . 84d , 85. 19. Ibid . f . 85 . 20. R. Lit. Claus . i . 346b . 21. Ibid . ii . 10. 22. Excerpt . Fin . i . 120. 23. R. Lit. Claus . ii . 145b . 24. Feet of F. , Beds . n . 317 . 25. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 580. 26. Pat . 27. Close R. 285. 28. Feet of F. , Beds . n . 350 . 29. Ibid . 30. Ibid . nos . 427 , 473 . 31. Bk . of Fees , 469. 32. Excerpt . Fin . 33. Bk . of Fees , 872 . 34. Ibid . 889. 35. Cal . of Misc . Inq . 36. Feet of F. , Beds . n . 599 . 37. Ibid . n . 665. 38. Cal . Close R. 375. 39. Feud . Aids , i . 3 . 


 R. 33 . n . 426 . i . 326 . i . 25 . 


 42. Cal . Close R. 188 . 


 41. Cal . Pat . R. 416 . 44. Cal . Pat . R. 379 . 47. Cal . Inquis . iv . 15 ; 49. Placit . de quo war . 67b . 


 40. Cal . Close R. III . 43. Cal . Inquis . iii . 127 . 46. Cal . Pat . R. 379 . Feud . Aids , i . 23 . 51. Cal . Inquis . vi . 271 . 54. Cal . Close R. 37 . 


 45. Abbrev . Placit . 236b . Cal . Close R. 460 . 48 . 50. Feud . Aids , i . 19 . 


 52. Cal . Pat . R. 252 . 55. Feud . Aids , i . 23 . 


 53. Feud . Aids , i . 110 . 


 
 
 XXXVIII ( 2 ) . 


 Within William de Caron's manor of Clifton and at Gretteford , Beds . , lands were given to the Hospitallers which were attached to their preceptory of Shefford Hardwick . 


 
 
 Hugh de Beauchamp gave them the whole vill of Grutteford by charter attested by Ralph de Turvill , Hugh de Karun , Geoffrey de Bruttevill and Hugh de Vieuxpont.¹ Presumably this was the tenement which the prior of the Hospitallers held of the barony of Eaton in 1242-3 as 4 virgates , 2 and in 1276 as 1 carucate in Clifton hundred.³ In 1302-3 the prior held of the barony of Eaton in Clifton , Beds.4 


 fee 


 
 
 In 1253 Margery Carun acknowledged the right of Ellis de Smetheton , prior of the Hospitallers , in 2 carucates of land in Clifton and lands in Stanford ( in Southill ) , Henlow , Langford and ( Shefford ) Hardwick , Beds . , as of her gift , and with the consent of William de Creppinges ( her sister's husband ) she granted to the prior and his successors all the lands which the same William held by the courtesy of England of her inheritance , which at his decease should revert to her and her heirs . 5 


 In 1346 the Hospitallers held fee in Clifton . " 


 
 
 2. Bk . of Fees , 889 . 4. Feud . Aids , i . 12. 5. Feet of F. , Beds . n . 546 . 


 1. Mon. Angl . vi . 807 . 


 
 
 3. R. Hund , i . 2 . 6. Feud . Aids , i . 31 . 


 
 
 XXXVIII ( 3 ) . 


 Land in Henlow , Beds . , seems to have been included in the manor of Clifton which William de Caron held in 1086 of Endes the sewer . 


 This tenement was long in the possession of the Cantelupes of Eaton Bray , Beds.¹ 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 278] ===
 
 
 262 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 In 1242-3 William de Cantelupe held 1 virgate in Henlow of the honor of Eaton of the king of ancient feoffment.2 In 1276 Ives la Zuche held by mesne I virgate of the king in Clifton hundred pertaining to the barony of Eaton and had view of frankpledge and other liberties.3 In 1302-3 William de Cantelupe lately held I virgate in Henlow of the honor of Eaton which William de la Zouche then held for fee.¹ William la Zouche held the same in 1346.5 


 
 
 1. Sec . V.C.H. Beds . iii . 370. 2. Bk . of Fees , 870. 3. R. Hund . i . 2b . 4. Feud . Aids , i . 13. 5. Ibid . 31 . 


 
 
 XXXVIII ( 4 ) . 


 Norman held of Eudes the sewer in Beeston , Beds . , 4 hides . The same Norman had held T.R.E. these 4 hides and 3 hides more which Rolland held of the same Eudes in 1086 ( see n . 49 ) . The first of these holdings was said to have been no part of the fee of Lisois ( de Moustiers , predecessor of Eudes ) . 


 1 


 Everard de Trumpington of Trumpington occurs in Cambridge shire near the beginning of John's reign . He had various commis sions in that county over many years . In 1217 he held land in Bedfordshire which was restored to him when he returned to allegiance to Henry . In 1219 he claimed to hold land in Howes , Cambs . , by inheritance from his father William , who had held it for 40 years.2 References to him will be found in the author's Feudal Cambridgeshire . In 1232 Walter Pertesoyl released to Everard de Trumpington his right in a messuage in Beeston to be held by doing for Walter the service due to the chief lord.³ In the same year Everard was one of the keepers of the escheats in Cambs . , where he was a collector of the thirtieth in 1237.5 In 1236 Fulk le Moyne warranted to the same Everard of a messuage in Stotfold and land in Thorncote and Beeston . In 1242-3 Thomas son of Bernard held 


 4 


 
 
 fee in Beeston of the barony of Eaton . ' Early in 1242 Everard de Trumpinton had been named for appointment as commissioner of array in Cambridgeshire , but his name was cancelled in favour of another on the enrolment of the commission.8 In 1251 he had a plea with Henry de Bathonia , the justiciary , touching a certain manor.9 


 
 
 Everard was succeeded by Roger his son , 10 who was a Crusader in 1270.11 He acknowledged a debt in 1278 to be levied of his lands in Cambs . , Hunts . and Beds.12 He was passing beyond seas in 1282 with John de Vescy , and was again serving over seas in 1286.13 He died in 1289 holding a messuage and lands in Moggerhanger , Beds . , of various lords , including Sir Ralph Pirot , other lands in Trumping ton and Girton , Cambs .; Giles his son was aged 22 and more.¹4 fine of the manor of Trumpington had been levied to Giles and Isabel his wife in 1274.15 Giles son of Roger de Trumpinton had licence to alienate land in Trumpington to the parson of the church there in 1291.16 He held land in Beeston in 1300,17 and the manor of Trumpington of Edmund de Mortimer in 1304.¹ 


 A 


 18 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 279] ===
 
 
 BEESTON - KINWICK FIELD IN SANDY 263 


 
 
 In 1302-3 Giles de Trumpinton held and fee in Beeston of the barony of Eaton and was one of the lords of Moggerhanger in 1316.19 In 1303-1305 he was with the earl of Lincoln serving beyond seas and in Scotland ; in 1304 he complained of the loss of 200 of his sheep at Moggerhanger while he was serving the king in Scotland.20 In 1309 he had letters of protection for 4 years going on pilgrimage.21 Land was held of him in Beeston in 1314,22 and he was living in 1318 , when he appointed Roger de Trumpinton his attorney , prior to going beyond seas.23 He enfeoffed the said Roger and Matilda wife of the said Roger of the manor of Moggerhanger , and probably died not long after . In 1326 Roger de Trumpington died seised as above of the said manor , leaving Giles his son aged 61 years.24 He held land in 6 counties . Land in Beeston was held of Matilda de Trump ington in 1342 , and in 1346 the said Matilda held 1 fee in Beeston of Roger de Beauchamp of Sandy , and with Roger her son she also held fee in Beeston of the barony of Eaton.26 


 25 


 4 


 
 
 1. R. Lit. Claus . i . 326b . 2. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 57. 3. Feet of F. , Beds . n . 333 . 4. Close R. 131 . 5. Ibid . 547 · 6. Feet of F. , Beds . n . 392. 7. Bk . of Fees , 889 . 8. Close R. 485. 9. Matt . Paris , Chron . Maj . v . 212. 10. R. Hund . i . 52. 11. Cal . Pat . R. 480. 12. Cal . Close R. 551 . 13. Cal . Pat . ii . 239 , 246. 14. Cal . Inquis . ii . 438. 15. Feet of F. , Cambs . 75. 16. Cal . Pat . R. 415. 17. Cat . of Anct . D. iii . C.3416 . 18. Cal . Inquis . iv . 163 . 19. Feud . Aids , i . 27 , 19. 20. Cal . Pat . R. 286 . 21. Ibid . 122. 22. Cal . Inquis . v . 248. 23. Cal . Pat . R. 145–6 . 24. Cal . Inquis . vi . 461. 25. Ibid . viii . 237 . For Roger see Ormerod , Ches . iii . 253 . 


 26 Feud . Aids , i . 27 . 


 
 
 XXXVIII ( 5 ) . 


 Chenemondewiche of the Domesday Survey of Bedfordshire , later Kinemondwick , has been identified by Dr. Fowler as Kinwick Field in Sandy . 


 
 
 The same writer has shewn that Robert de Braibroc acquired lands of the barony of Eaton by becoming surety for certain debts to the Jews due by Hugh de Beauchamp II and Oliver de Beauchamp . He cites a charter of John de Beauchamp releasing Henry de Braibroc ( son of Henry ) of his share of the above - named debts by reason of the lands which the said Henry held of the lands formerly of the said Hugh and Oliver de Beauchamp.¹ Robert de Braibroc also freed the adjoining manor of Sutton from Jewry and gave it to Henry his son and Christiana daughter of Wischard Ledet ( d . 1222 ) in marriage ; the same Christiana acquired similarly the manor of Cadebury , Beds . , held of the barony of Eaton , of which she was dowered by Wischard her son.2 Henry de Braibroc died in 1234 , ³ and by 1236 his relict Christiana had married Gerard de Furnivall ; hence they appear in 1240 as holding of the barony of Eaton 2 carucates in Eaton ( n . 38 ) . 


 4 


 It is quite uncertain if land in Kinwick formed part of the Braibroc holding in this barony . Before 1242 John de Andevill gave to the monks of St. Neots I virgate in Kenemundewich.5 In 1242-3 Hugh de Andevill held fee less I virgate in Kenemondewick . This description is indefinite as to the locality of the fee . Hugh de 


 6 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 280] ===
 
 
 264 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 Andevill , John his son and Andrew de Cirnindewyk attested a grant of land in Sandy to Wardon abbey . ? 


 8 


 The tenement in Kinwick has not been traced further . Dr. Fowler cites evidences to prove that the prior of Chicksand , as well as the prior of St. Neots , had land in Kinwick . In 1316 the prior of Chicksand was one of the lords of Sandy . In 1332 the abbot of St. Mary's , Stratford , had licence to grant to John Morice and Agnes his wife messuages and lands in Tempsford , ' Kylmundewyk , ' and 2 other places.9 


 The manor of Cadebury descended in the line of the heirs general of Ledet . In 1325 Nicholas le Latimer , son of Alice la Latimere , held the manor of Roger de Beauchamp for 40d . and 2 pairs of spurs yearly ; John his son was aged 9 years.10 


 
 
 1. Cart . Antiq . 30 F. 13 ; Beds . Hist . Rec . Soc . , 69. 2. Cal . Inquis . i . 259 , 308. 3. Excerpt . Fin . i . 80 , 258. 4. Close R. 336. 5. Chartul . , B.M. , Faust . A. iv . f . 54 ; cited by Dr. Fowler . 6. Bk . of Fees , 889 . 7. Chartul . John Rylands Lib . f . 63d . , Dr. Fowler's notes . 8. Feud . Aids , 9. Cal . Pat . 375. 10. Cal . Inquis . vi . 383 . 


 i . 19 . 


 
 
 XXXVIII ( 6 ) . 


 Eudes the sewer held in Wyboston , Beds . , 6 hides and 3 virgates . He also held 1 virgate there under the abbot of Ramsey . 


 Hugh de Beauchamp gave to St. Neots a virgate of land in Wyboston for a light in the church.¹ 


 
 
 In 1194 Richard de Baa was surety for Hugh de Beauchamp and Alienor his wife in a plea with William de Einesford.2 In 1195-6 and 1199 Reginald de Baa was a visor in Bedfordshire pleas.³ In 1208 the king confirmed to Robert de Braibroc , of the gift of Reginald de Baa , all the land he held of the fee of Hugh de Beauchamp in the Old Park on the fee of Eaton and the land called Cadebury , with the way from the house of Richard de Costentin to those lands ¹ ; and of the gift of William son of William de Soc 10 acres of land in Wyboston ( Wybaudeston ) ; and of the gift of William de Chalton 12 acres of land in the assarts of Eaton.5 


 
 
 In 1240 Osbert de Baa and Agnes de Baa recovered a carucate in Eaton , as stated previously . " In 1242-3 Osbert held 2 carucates in Wyboston for fee of this barony . In 1255 Reginald de Baa died holding fee in Wyboston of William de Beauchamp of Eaton and land in Compton Durville , Som .; Reginald his son was aged 15 years.8 8 In the same year custody of the land in the last - named place was granted to one of the king's yeomen during the minority of the heir of Reginald de Baa.9 


 
 
 Osbert de Baa , knt . , occurs in 1283 and 1285.10 He died in 1296 , leaving issue a daughter Elizabeth wife of William de Weyland.¹¹ They were living in 1307,12 but in 1302 Ralph son of William ( de Greystoke ) appears to have held this fee , and in 1316 he was one of the lords of Wyboston.13 He died in 1317 seised of the manor of Wyboston held of Roger de Beauchamp for fee ; Robert his son was aged 40 years , ¹ª but died 2 months after his father , seised as above , leaving Ralph his son aged 17 years.15 This Ralph baron of 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 281] ===
 
 
 WYBOSTON - ICKWELL 265 


 
 
 Greystoke died in 1323 , seised of the said manor held of Roger de Beauchamp for fee ; William his son was aged 3 years.16 


 Nicholas son of Robert de Eton proved his age in 1327 and had livery of lands in the counties of Lincoln , Northampton and Rut land.17 He died in 1330 holding of Roger de Beauchamp lands in Eaton , Staploe , Honeydon , Wyboston and Wilden , Beds . , partly held with his wife Avice and partly inherited from Joan his ( mother ? ) and Thomas his brother ; Margery his sister and heir was aged 30 years.18 


 William baron of Greystoke died in 1359 , having previously demised the manor of Wyboston for a short term.19 


 
 
 1. Stowe MS . 941 , f . 29. 2. R. Cur . Reg . i . 106 . 3. Ibid . 371 , 437 . 4. R. Chart . 180b . 5. Ibid . 181. 6. Feet of F. , Beds . n . 458. 7. Bk . of Fees , 888. 8. Cal . Inquis . i . 87 . 9. Cal . Pat . R. 410 . 10. Ibid . 61 ; Cal . Close R. 350. 11. Cal . Fine R. i . 369 , 374. 12. Cal . Close R. 489 . 13. Feud . Aids , i . 15 , 18. 14. Cal . Inquis . vi . 24 . 


 15. Ibid . 26. 16. Ibid . 19. Ibid . x . 420 . 


 303 . 


 17 Cal . Fine R. iv . 36. 18. Cal . Inquis . vii . 199 . 


 
 
 XXXVIII ( 7 ) . 


 Ralph held of Eudes the sewer in Northill , Beds . , 1 hide . 


 In 1202 Henry de Tyvill granted land in Caldecote ( in Northill ) in return for a release of land in Beeston.¹ Reference to this family will be found at n . 3. In 1242-3 the heirs of Ralph de Tyvill held fee in Ickwell ( Chykewell ) of this barony.2 


 3 


 4 


 In 1260 William de Blancmuster gave the manor of Ickwell to the Hospitallers , reserving for life a rent of 10 marks . Two years later William le Coynte and Alice his wife released to William de Blanc muster their right in land in Ickwell , which they had apparently recovered against him , as William son of Robert de Blancmuster , in the preceding year , when the land was granted to him to be held of the Hospitallers at a rent payable in the church of Northill for the souls of the said William and Alice.5 It is reasonable to infer that the two parties represented the heirs general of Ralph de Tyvill of Ickwell . 


 
 
 In 1276 the Hospitallers held fee in Ickwell ( Gikewell ) of the gift of William de Holecote and had withdrawn suit to county and hundred courts . They held fee as in Northill in 1284-6 of Ralph 1 \ / 1142 de Beauchamp ( of Eaton ) . " John Mile ( ? Child ) held it in 1302-3 , presumably by demise from the Hospitallers , who held in 1346 , of whom was unknown , fee in Ickwell which John Mile sometime held.8 


 
 
 1. Feet of F. , Beds . ( Rec . Com . ) , 46. 2. Bk . of Fees , 889. 3. Feet of F. , Beds . 607. 4. Ibid . n . 620. 5. Ibid . n . 645. 6. R. Hund , i , 2b . 1. Feud . Aids , i . 5. 8. Ibid . 27 . 


 
 
 XXXVIII ( 8 ) . 


 This tenement has not been identified . 


 Nicholas de Anesti is named below at n . 41. In 1221 he held the manor of Ridgwell , Essex , ¹ which his father Hubert had held in or 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 282] ===
 
 
 266 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 4 


 before 1212 of the honor of Boulogne for 2 fees.2 Hubert also held of the same honor in 1212 in Anstey , Hormead and Braughin , Herts .; 3 fees.³ In 1212 Nicholas de Anesti held 1 fee in Braughin of the same honor . In 1232 Denise his daughter and heir was the wife of Walter de Langeton , 5 brother of Stephen de Langeton , after wards archbishop of Canterbury . She was niece of Hamon Pecche and by her husband's death without issue in 1234 she was widowed and gave 100 marks to marry whom she would by the surety of Warin de Munt chenesy , " whom she later married . In 1242 Isabel late wife of Nicholas de Anesti had her dower in the manors of Braxted , Essex , and Hormead , Herts.8 


 6 


 
 
 9 


 In 1242-3 the heirs of Nicholas de Anesti held fee of the barony of Beauchamp of Eaton . In 1245 Warin de Muntchenesy and Denise his wife had a grant of free warren in Ridgwell and a yearly fair there.10 Warin died in 1255 , his widow Denise surviving him.¹¹ She gave 200 marks to marry whom she would , desiring apparently to avoid marriage with Guy de Rupe Forti , whom the king had intended 12 that she should marry . See Arundel , n . 38 . 


 16 


 In 1266 Denise de Muntchenesy was mainpernor of William her son to have him before the king , he having been taken lately as the king's enemy at Kenilworth.13 He was pardoned on 2 February , 1267.14 In 1271 Denise , being old and feeble ; had licence to do suit by her attorney at the county ( court ) of York , the trithing of Barton , and the wapentakes of Bucross , Harthill and Dickering ; in 1271 she had licence to go beyond seas for 3 years.15 The pardon in respect of the rebellion of 1266 was renewed in 1275 to William son of Warin de Muntchenesy , and also for trespass of the forest in the time of Henry III or the then king.¹ He was living in 1280 , when he obtained a confirmation of the grant by Henry II to Ralph de Muntchenesy , whose heir he was , of view of frankpledge and sheriff's tourn in all his lands.17 In 1287 he was in the king's service in Wales , 18 but died before I March , 1288 , when his mother Denise and others made fine in 2000 marks for custody of his lands during the minority of Denise his daughter and heir.19 In 1290 the marriage of the heiress was granted to Hugh de Ver , on condition that he married her himself , 20 which he did shortly after . Denise the grandmother of the heir died at a ripe old age in 1298.21 


 For other references to this line , see Arundel , n . 38 . 


 
 
 1. R. Lit. Claus.i . 447b . 2. Bk . of Fees , 236. 3. Ibid . 237 ; Cal . Pat . R. 4. Bk . of Fees , 123. 5. Close R. 91 . 1217 , 131 , 172 . 6. Ibid . 508 ; 7. Excerpt . Fin . i . 268. 8. Close R. 478 . 1236 , p . 256 . 9. Bk . of Fees , 889 . 12. Cal . 10. Cal . Chart . R. i . 288. 11. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 213 . Pat . R. 420 , 543 . 13. Ibid . 636 , 667 ; 1266–72 , p . 16 . Ibid . 32 . 


 14 . 


 15. Ibid . 514 , 599. 16. Ibid . 80 , 232. 17. Cal . Fine R. i . 136. 18 Cal . Pat . R. 275. 19. Ibid . 292. 20. Ibid . 362 , 376 . 


 21. Cal . Fine R. i . 404 . 


 
 
 XXXVIII ( 9 ) . 


 In 1196 Robert son of Olimpiada de Clifton quitclaimed to Pain abbot of Wardon land in Chikesand , Beds.¹ In 1201 Robert de Sutton quitclaimed to Richard de Pertehale a moiety of the advowson 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 283] ===
 
 
 CHAWSTON 267 


 
 
 of the church of Clifton.2 In the ensuing year a recognition was summoned whether Henry father of Hugh de Sandei gave a mediety of the church of Clifton to Ingram the parson , brother of the same Henry , by reason of the wardship which he had of Olimpiada mother of Robert de Sutton , or of his own right ; the jurors found that he gave it by virtue of wardship ; Robert de Sutton had recently claimed the advowson against Hugh de Sandei.³ 


 William Wischard was party to a plea of land in Silsoe in 1200-1202.4 Land in Clifton was released to him by Robert de Sutton in 1219.5 William Wiscard obtained a recognition in 1240 of services due to him for land in Clifton . In 1242-3 he held fee of this barony . " 


 6 


 
 
 I 


 In 1284-6 Richard Wiscard held 1 hide in Stanford of the Hospitallers , who held of Ralph de Beauchamp of Eaton , who held of the honor of Bedford ; Richard held also of other fees in Pullox hill . In 1302 William Wiscard held in Silsoe of the fee of Cainhoe.9 There seems to be no record by which the identity of the tenement held of this barony can be precisely determined . 


 
 
 - 


 
 
 1. Feet of F. , Beds . n . 11 . 4. R. Cur . Reg . iii . pass . 7. Bk . of Fees , 889 . 


 8 . 


 
 
 2. Ibid . n . 73 . 3. Abbrev . Placit . 36 , 67b . Feet of F. , Beds . n . 233 . 6. Ibid . n . 435 . Feud . Aids , i . 6-7 . 9. Ibid . 14 . 


 5 . 


 
 
 XXXVIII ( 10 ) . 


 Eudes the sewer held in 1086 in Chawston ( in Roxton ) , Beds . , 


 I hide and 1 virgate . 


 
 
 1 


 Possibly this land lay in Colesdon in Roxton . Part of this land was , however , in demesne in Roxton . The earliest refer ences to the priory of Caldwell are of the time of Henry II ; in the public records it first appears in 1224.1a John de Boeles brought a plea in 1231 against Nicholas de Cernes ( Chernes ) touching a mill - dam raised in Roxton to the injury of complainant's land.2 


 
 
 In 1236 land in Colesdon and Roxton was the inheritance of 3 sisters . Richard de Etun and Beatrice his wife , Robert de Besevill and Isabel his wife , and Alice de Vieuxpont claimed against the prior of Caldwell a tenement and render of cereals in those places , which they afterwards quitclaimed to the prior for themselves and the heirs of Beatrice , Isabel and Alice . Some of the plaintiffs are named as tenants in Eaton in the feudal returns of 1240 and 1242–3 given above , where Richard son of Robert may be identified as Richard de Etun and where the prior of Caldwell takes the place of Alice de Vieuxpont . 


 
 
 4 


 In 1284–6 Ralph de Beauchamp of Eaton held lands in Roxton of the honor of Gloucester . Possibly land of his own fee was then incorporated in the larger holding of the honor of Gloucester ( Wardon , n . 11 ) . In 1302-3 the prior of Caldwell held fee in Chawston with Colesdon of the fee of William de Colesdene and Hugh de Vieuxpont.5 In 1316 the prior of Caldwell and 2 others were lords of the vill of Chawston and Colesdon.6 


 In 1338 the ancestors of Simon Barscote of Bedford were said to 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 284] ===
 
 
 268 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 have been the founders of the priory of Caldwell ; that Simon granted the advowson to Roger Mareschal , who afterwards granted it to William de Latimer and Elizabeth his wife . " 


 
 
 In 1346 the prior of Caldwell held fee of the fee of Colesdon of John de Engaine , Alexander Boson , and William Mordaunt.8 


 
 
 5 . 


 Ibid . 15 . 


 1 : V. C. H. Beds . i . 382. 1a . Pat . R. 454 ; R. Lit. Claus . i . 632. 2. Pat . R. 446 . 3. Feet of F. , Beds . n . 372. 4. Feud . Aids , i . 6 . 6. Ibid . 18. 7. Cal . Close R. 341. 8. Feud . Aids , i . 34 . 


 
 
 XXXVIII ( II ) . 


 Alwin in 1086 held of Eudes the sewer in Sutton , Beds . , 3 virgates . 


 It is suggested that some portion of this holding was given to the Templars , who claimed part of a small tenement in Sutton in 1240 , of which Henry de Costentin was vouched to warranty.¹ In 1330 the Hospitallers claimed certain liberties there.2 


 1. Feet of F. , Beds . n . 447 · 2. Placit . de quo war . 59b . 


 
 
 XXXIX . 


 Eudes the sewer in 1086 held in Losfield ( Losfelle ) , Berks . , I hide . In 1130 the sheriff of Berkshire claimed allowance of 2s . of danegeld in respect of the king's demesne of Losfeld.¹ In 1219 a certain laund , namely Losfeld , was in the forest of Windsor and ought to render yearly to the king's exchequer 5s.2 


 It was presented in 1276 from the hundred of Bray that the hermit of Losfeld held 3 acres of land in the manor of Bray by gift of Henry III.3 It appears therefore that Losfield was incorporated in the Old Park of Windsor . 


 1. Pipe R. 31 Hen . I , 126. 2. Bk . of Fees , 255. 3. R. Hund . i . 12 . 


 
 
 XL . 


 In Hertfordshire Eudes the sewer held Newsellsbury in 1086 for 5 hides and virgate , with which 2 hides and 20 acres in Barley were worked with the ploughs of Newsellsbury ; in Layston 6 acres and in Reed I virgate ; in Suffolk , in Eriswell 6 carucates , in Chelsworth ( ' Cocleswrda ' ) 8 carucates , in Lakenheath and Brandon 2 carucates . See n . 43. William de Aubervill ( ' Odburgville ' ) held in Barley 4½ hides and 10 acres . 


 
 
 Eudes gave the church of Newsells to St. John the Baptist's , Colchester , ¹ and temp . William I gave tithes of Newsells to St. Martin's , Sées.² Subsequently to 1120 these lands were incorporated in the honor of Boulogne . 


 
 
 The first known tenant of this fee was Eustace de Merc , founder of the priory of Crosroys or Royston . In 1170 a mark was levied from the land of Eustace de Merc in Cambridgeshire for a default , ³ 


 3 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 285] ===
 
 
 NEWSELLSBURY , BARLEY , ERISWELL 269 


 
 
 and in 1174 the farmer of the honor of Boulogne claimed allowance of £ 4 of land which Eustace de Merch had that year in Layer , Essex , 4 and so while the honor was in the king's hands down to 1179 . He had a crown gift in 1184,5 and in 1186 was an envoy for the crown with Godfrey de Luci and Guy de St. Valery going over seas , when they were provided with 2 ships for their passage . " He appears to have had land at this time in Yorkshire . " 


 7 


 In 1185 Ralph de Roucestre ( ' Roffa ' ) gave 20s . for the right of 9 marks against Robert de London in Kent . In 1198 he was essoined at Hertford by Gunter de Berqueia ( Barkway ) .9 In 1200 he had a suit with Eustace de Laghefare in Essex , 10 whereupon an assize came to recognise if Eustace de Merc , maternal uncle of Ralph de Roucestre , was seised of 2 carucates in Layer ( ' Lagefare ' ) at his death which Eustace de Lagefare held , who claimed to hold the land of the king , that both he and Ralph were of one stock ( stipes ) , he being of the elder birth . Afterwards they came to an agreement whereby Eustace was to hold of Ralph certain tenements in Layer for fee.12 In 1201 Ralph gave 30 marks in lieu of service over seas in respect of 5 fees of the honor of Boulogne in Suffolk and elsewhere.13 It appears probable that he was son of the Ralph de Roucestre who joined with Eustace de Merc in the foundation of Royston priory.14 In 1208 Ralph owed 20 marks in Norfolk and Suffolk for the grand assize touching I knight's fee in Estmore and Barton.15 


 
 
 In 1212 Ralph de Roffa or Roucestre held 1 fee in Newsells and Barkway of the honor of Boulogne.16 In 1217-8 the same Ralph held of this honor in Rivenhall , Essex , Barkway and Newsells , Herts . , Eriswell and Chelsworth , Suff . , 5 fees ; and in High and Little Laver , Essex , fee which Richard de Roucestre and Eustace his brother held.17 


 
 
 Ralph de Roucestre gave to Colchester two - thirds of the tithes of Eriswell and Chelsworth , including lands of the demesne granted in fee by his father and by himself ; he also confirmed the tithes granted by Eudes the sewer and Eustace count of Boulogne.18 Another ( ? ) Ralph de Roucestre also granted to the same monks 3 half - virgates in Barley.19 Some reference to the family of Roucestre will be found in Clutterbuck's Hist . of Hertfordshire , iii . 365 . 


 
 
 In 1216 Ralph's lands were seized and committed to the king's bailee , 20 but on Henry's accession he had writs of reseisin to the sheriffs of Hertford , Cambridge , Norfolk and Suffolk.21 In 1236 William de Roucestre , son and heir of Ralph de Roucestre , gave relief of £ 27 10s . for his inheritance held of the honor of Boulogne.22 It is uncertain if this was the same Ralph as that named above , or his son . 


 
 
 In 1248 William de Roucestre died seised of lands in Eriswell held of the king as of the honor of Boulogne for 2 fees , the manor of Rivenhall with the advowson of the church similarly held for I fee , and the manor of Newsells similarly held for 1 fee , of which Ralph de Handleye held a fourth part ; Peter his brother , aged 50 or 60 years , was his heir . 23 Peter de Roucestre gave relief in 1249 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 286] ===
 
 
 270 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 of £ 25 upon succeeding to his inheritance , 24 and shortly before his death on Ascension Day , 1255 , as Peter de Roucestre , parson of Rivenhall , he granted the manor of Rivenhall to his nephew ( nepos ) Robert de Scales , and the manor of Newsells to Alice wife ( recte mother ) of the said Robert , on condition that they founded a chantry for his soul's welfare ; shortly before his death he assumed the habit . of a Templar.25 


 
 
 In 1255 Robert de Scales had exemption for life from being put on assizes and the like , and the same year an inquiry was directed to be made as to what state Peter de Roucestre was in when he granted the manors to Robert and Alice as just described . 26 In the following year Robert de Scales and Alice his mother gave 17 marks of gold for seisin of the manors of Rivenhall and Newsells , which sum they paid into the wardrobe in three sums , amounting in all to £ 113 6s . 8d .; for this they had acquittance in 1260 to the barons of the exchequer.27 


 
 
 Wardship of the land and heir of Robert de Scales was committed to Robert Waleraund in January 1267 ; but later in the year the same wardship was granted to Clemency , late wife of the said Robert , for 400 marks , to be paid to John de Britagne , to whom the wardship had been granted previously.28 Robert son and heir of Robert de Scales , tenant in chief , had seisin of his inheritance in 1275.29 Two years later he was serving in Wales with the earl of Lincoln.30 


 
 
 31 


 It was presented in 1275 that the advowson of the priory of Croiroys , which was founded upon the fee of Newsels on the honor of Boulogne , was in the hands of the earl of Gloucester by the demise five years previously of Alice de Scales ; that Ralph Fitz Fulk held of Geoffrey de Scales fee in Barley with the advowson of the church , and sold the advowson to the abbess of Chatteris ; that William de Roucestre had held the manor of Eriswell of the king as of the honor of Boulogne and had enfeoffed the priory of Crosroys of the same manor in alms ; that Peter de Roucestre enfeoffed the same house of the mill of Little Barton and fishery of Lakenheath , which he held of the same honor.32 It was further presented from the hundred of Edwinstree , Herts . , that Ralph de Roucestre formerly held the manor of Newsells of the king as the caput of a certain barony and that Robert Burnel then held it by the demise of Roger de Scales ; the jurors understood that the barony had been alienated since Ralph's time , and ' quod heres nichil habet penes se unde possit domino Regi respondere ' ; it was of the honor of Boulogne.33 In 1302-3 Robert de Tudenham held 2 fees in Eriswell of the honor of Boulogne.34 In 1307 Robert son and heir of Robert de Scales gave relief for 3 fees in Newsells and Barkway , fee in Little Layer and 1 fee in Rivenhall.35 


 Robert de Tudenham held the manor of Eriswell jointly with Eva his wife of the king as of the honor of Boulogne for 2 fees by the grant of Robert de Weston and Hawise his wife by fine levied in 1270 Robert son of the said Robert and Eva was aged 30 and more.36 Ralph de Roucestre had sometime settled the manor on himself and Eva his wife , with reversion in default of issue to Eva , 


 
 
 G 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 287] ===
 
 
 ASPENDEN , BRAXTED 271 


 
 
 who afterwards married Robert de Tudenham ; Hawise wife of Robert de Weston was sister and heir of Ralph de Roucestre , and by the fine levied in 1270 Robert de Tudenham did fealty for the manor to ( Robert ? ) de Scales , kinsman and heir of the said Hawise ; Eva died in 1312 , seised of the manor ; Robert son of Robert de Tudenham and the said Eva , aged 32 and more , was her heir.37 Robert de Scales died in 1325 seised of the manor of Eriswell , which Robert de Tudenham held of him for 2 fees ; Robert de Scales , his son , was aged 13 years . 38 


 
 
 1. Chartul . 3 . 


 2. Round , Cal . of Docs . France , 233. 3. Pipe R. 16 Hen . II , 94 . 4. Ibid . 20 Hen . II , 75 . 5. Ibid . 30 Hen . II , 142 . 6. Ibid . 32 Hen . II , 179 . 7. Ibid . 93 . 8. Ibid . 31 Hen . II , 228 . 9. R. Cur . Regis , i . 171. 10. Ibid . ii . 181. 11. Ibid . 219 ; R. de Oblat . 65. 12. Essex Feet of F. 22 . 13. R. de Oblat . 170. 14. Mon. Angl . 


 
 
 v . 405. 15. Pipe R. 10 Jno . m . 8. 16. Bk . of Fees , 125. 17. Ibid . 240 . 


 18. Chartul . of Colchester , 150 . 19. Ibid . 157 . 20. R. Lit. Claus . i . 252 , 263 ; R. Chart . 220. 21. R. Lit. Claus . i . 324b . 22. Excerpt . Fin . i . 299 . 23. Cal . Inquis . i . 38 , 46 , 293. 24. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 66. 25. Cal . Inquis . 100 ; Excerpt . Fin . ii . 208. 26. Cal . Pat . R. 403 , 437 , 508. 27. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 326 . 29. Cal . Close R. 207. 30. Cal . 32. Ibid . ii . 196b . 33. Ibid . i . 193 . 35. Ibid . ii . 439 . 36. Cal . Inquis . v . 47 . 


 28. Ibid . 28 , 115 , 299 . 31. R. Hund . i . 193b . 


 Pat . R. 220 . 34. Feud . Aids , v . 31 . 37. Ibid . 187 . 


 
 
 38. Ibid . vi . 371 . 


 
 
 XLI . 


 : 


 Richard de Sachauvilla held of Eudes the sewer in 1086 in Aspenden , Herts . , 1 hide . Richard de Sauqueville also held of Eudes the sewer in Essex in Great Braxted 2 hides less 15 acres , Lawling 3 hides , Steeple 3 hides and 35 acres , Down ( Hall ) 2 hides and 20 acres , ‘ Landun ' hide and 20 acres , ´ Acleta ' 1 hide and 10 acres , Broxted 9 acres , Pledgdon 5 hides less 20 acres , Rettendon 2 hides and 30 acres , Lees 2 hides , Quendon 2 hides , Radwinter 15 acres . 


 &lt; 


 
 
 Aubreye attested her presence when William de Sauqueville her late husband gave to the church of Colchester a rent out of the mill of Rivenhall , due to the manor of Braxted , and from Colchester.¹ Subsequently Richard de Anesti confirmed this gift of his maternal uncle William de Sauqueville.2 


 
 
 It is not intended to attempt the task of tracing the descent of these various tenements which descended in the line of the heirs . general of William de Sauqueville . In 1199 Hubert de Anesti held 5 fees in Hertfordshire and Essex of the honor of Boulogne , of which 1 fee was in Aspenden , ³ and in 1212 was in the wardship of Robert Fitz - Walter with the heir of Hubert . In 1214 Nicholas ( son and heir of Hubert ) had his scutage of 8 fees.5 His lands in Hert fordshire , Essex , Oxfordshire and Surrey were seized in 1215.6 


 
 
 Morant gives some account of the descent of Braxted and other lands of Nicholas de Anesti in the History of Essex , ii . 137 ff . For further account of his descendants , see n . 38 ( 8 ) and Arundel , n . 38 . 


 
 
 1. Chartul . 163. 2. Ibid . 164 . 125 . 5. R. Lit. Claus , i . 2016 . 


 
 
 3. Red Bk . 133 , 174. 4. Bk . of Fees , 6. Ibid . 237b . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 288] ===
 
 
 272 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 XLII . 


 1 


 Eudes Fitz - Herbert in 1086 held in Ashe , Hants . , 3 hides . Eudes gave to Colchester the tithe of cheeses , wool , and of the garden in Ashe ( ' Esse ' ) .¹ The tenement was later incorporated with the honor of Camel , Som . , which Hubert de Burgh , earl of Kent , quitclaimed to Henry III in 1228. He had obtained it from king John , 2 to whom it had escheated after the death of William de Roumare III in 1205.³ 


 
 
 From a suit cited below it appears that the manor of Ashe was acquired ( or at least held ) by one Robert de Maners before the time of Edward I , and that it descended to his son John de Maners , who was a juror for Overton hundred in 1280.4 A Richard de Maners was visor in a Hampshire plea in 1198,5 but probably was not the Richard named under Warenne , n . 8. As lord of Ashe , John de Maners granted to Henry de la Lyegh , rector of the church there , common of pasture on his demesne lands for 50 ewes , 50 sheep , 3 bullocks , 2 cows and 20 swine for life ; witnesses , Roger Lanceleve , knt . , and others . " Land in Steventon , Hants . , was held in 1277 of John de Maners . " John obtained licence in 1297 to grant the manor of Ashe to John Randolf and Joan his wife , in exchange for the manor of Chaddenwick , Wilts . , which was to be settled on himself and his wife Alice for their lives.8 


 
 
 In 1301 John Randolf complained that trespassers had broken . his houses at Ashe by Overton , Hants . , and carried his goods away.⁹ In the following year the said John Randolf , knt . , had seisin of lands in Quidhampton and Ashe which he had by gift of Richard de Overton , clerk.10 Roger de Arundel , son and heir of Robert de Arundel , made grants to John Randolf and Joan his wife by charters dated at Ashe in 1307.11 Thus in 1302-3 John Randolf held fee in Ashe , and in 1316 was described as lord of that vill.12 


 In the early years of Edward II , however , he had to resist a claim made to the manor by Robert de Maners , as son and heir of the John above named , on the ground that one Reginald son of Peter had given it to John de Maners in free marriage with Alice daughter of the said Reginald . John de Drokensford warranted the manor ( with certain exceptions ) to John Randolf , whose defence was that plaintiff's father John had inherited the estate from his father Robert de Maners and had not received it , as alleged , from his wife's father . The dispute lasted many years , but at last , in 1318 , the jury gave a verdict for Randolf.13 


 John Randolf was living at Ashe in 1323,14 but was dead in 1342 , when his widow Joan responded concerning the tithes in Ashe.15 John de Stonore held the estate in 1346,16 and John earl of Kent died in 1352 seised of 1 fee in Ashe Maners , which John Randolf sometime held.¹ John de Stonore died in 1355 holding inter alia the manor of Ashe Maners of the countess of Kent as of the honor of Camel for fee . John his son was aged 40 and more . 


 18 


 
 
 3. R. Lit. Claus . 6. Cat . of 


 
 
 2. Cal . Chart . R. i . 82 . 


 1. Colchester Chartul . 2 . i . 6ob . 4. Assize R. 789 , m . 40d . 5. R. Cur . Reg . iii . 43 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 289] ===
 
 
 ASHE - RODING , GREAT HALLINGBURY 273 


 
 
 Anct . D. iii . C. 3101. 7. Cal . Inquis . ii . 136. 8. Inq . a.q.d. 25 Edw . I , n . 2. 9. Cal . Pat . R. 621. 10. Cat . of Anct . D. vi . C. 6008. 11. Ibid . 12. Feud . Aids , ii . 306 , 329. 13. De Banco R. 212 , m . 410d . 15. Ing . Nonarum , 121 . 16. Feud . Aids , 18. Ibid . 171 . 


 ii . C. 2230 . 14. Cal . Pat . R. 309-10 . 17. Cal . Inquis . x . 54 . 


 ii . 329 . 


 
 
 XLIII . 


 Turgis held in 1086 of Eudes the sewer in Roding Morel 1 hide and 45 acres ; Eudes held Roding ( Abbess ? ) 3 hides and Shellowhide in demesne . 


 
 
 Roger de Aubervill ( Otburvilla ' ) held in Roding 2 hides , Great Hallingbury 3 hides and 38 acres . 


 C 


 Eudes the sewer gave to the monks of Colchester the plenary tithe of Roding Morel.¹ In or after 1120 Henry I restored to Rohaise wife of Eudes his sewer the land which Eudes had given her in dower , namely inter alia Eriswell and Chelsworth , Suff . , Great Hallingbury and the two Rodings , Essex , Lilly Church ( Ledecirca ' ) , Kent , and Easton , Northants . ( n . 49 ) ; also the land of Humphrey son of Humphrey and that of William son of Turgis.2 Later during the reign of Henry I Rohaise restored the manor of Hallingbury , which Eudes gave , to Colchester ; 3 Stephen count of Mortain and Matilda his wife confirmed to the monks the church of Lilley Church ' ( in Higham , Kent ) , two - thirds of the tithes of Roding , Eriswell and Chelsworth , the church of Barkway and tithes , to hold as beneficially as the said monks had held of Eudes the sewer and of Eustace count ( of Boulogne ) . This confirmation was issued after the above - named tenements had been incorporated in the honor of Boulogne . In 1130 Hallingbury was in the demesne of the crown . 5 Under Colchester the farm of the land late of Eudes the sewer amounted to £ 205 3s.6 In Roding Morel the monks had in 1237 the plenary tithe of the demesne of Ralph Morel , in the same ( recte White ) Roding two - thirds only of the tithe of Walter de Merc , and in Roding Abbess the tithe formerly of Fulk the sewer.7 


 4 


 
 
 The gift of Hallingbury did not long continue , beyond that of two thirds of the tithes which William de Lanvalei , knt . , son of William de Lanvalei by Gunnora his wife , duly confirmed circa 1200-1215.8 ( See n . 51. ) In 1215 Ralph Purcel was dead and Isabel his relict , then wife of Simon de Barton , had livery of her dower in Halling bury . It was presented in 1219 that Walter de Hauvill held Hallingbury La Walle by Henry II ; that the relict of Ralph Purcel then had a sixth part of the vill in dower , the whole vill being worth , with the stock , £ 6.10 According to an earlier return Walter de Hauvill held by falconry and had by king John 60 solidates of land in Hallingbury ; Ralph Purcel held by the same service and had also 60 solidates of land there.11 


 
 
 In 1219 Walter de Merk held land in White Roding by serjeanty of being the king's falconer , and so also in 1236.12 He died in 1248 holding a manor in White Roding , with the advowson of the church , of the king ; William his son was aged 18 years.13 Custody of his land and heirs and their marriage were granted for 100 marks to 


 
 
 III . T 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 290] ===
 
 
 274 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 Henry de Mara.¹ª William son of Walter de Merc died in 1254 , administration of his goods being granted to his late guardian , who had also the wardship of the land and heirs.15 


 John de Merc was the king's falconer in 1286.16 In 1297 he surrendered his manors of Comberton , Cambs . , and White Roding , Essex , to the king , who regranted the same to John and Mary his wife in fee tail , with remainder to Cecily de Hastang , sister of John , and her heirs.17 Ralph Merk , aged 40 , was dwelling at Roding in 1298 , his son Thomas being aged 20 years . 18 After the death of John de Merk , his relict Mary married Stephen Huvel , who joined her in granting the manor of White Roding to Peter de Cusaunce for Mary's life ; it was held of the king by service of keeping a heron falcon at the king's charges ; the said Mary was living at the decease in 1318 of the said Peter.19 She died in 1329 seised of the said manor as above of the inheritance of Cecily late wife of Humphrey de Hastang , which Cecily granted the reversion of the manor to Philip de Hastang , who died in Mary's lifetime ; the reversion belonged to Beatrice , daughter and heir of the said Philip , whom Thomas de Longevill had married ; she was aged 21 years . Thomas de Longevill died in 1346 seised of this manor jointly with Beatrice his wife , held of the king with the manor of Com berton by keeping from Michaelmas to Candlemas 2 of the king's lanner heroner falcons and a heroner greyhound at the king's charges ; John his son was aged 16 and more . 21 


 20 


 We return to Walter de Hauvill , who died in 1220 , when Geoffrey de Hauvill had livery of the land in Hallingbury , late of the said Walter his uncle.22 In 1240 the king granted to master Roger de Ros , his tailor , in fee , the land called la Walle in Halling bury which Gilbert de Hauvill sometime held of the king's bail . 23 In 1251 the same Roger had a grant of free warren here.24 In 1265 the manor of Hallingbury Walle was seized by the earl of Gloucester and committed to William de Valence.25 Three years earlier the king had confirmed the gift made by Thomasia de Ros , late wife of William de Rouen , to Henry le Flemmeng of her land in Hallingbury la Walle ( now Wallbury ) and elsewhere , late of Roger le Taillur , brother of the said Thomasia ; and also of the quitclaim made to the same Henry by Emelina de Ros , sister of Thomasia.26 In 1267 the king granted land in La Walle or Wall bury , Essex , late of Roger le Taylur , deceased , as escheat of the Normans ' lands , to his brother , William de Valence , in part satis faction of his fee of £ 500 a year . 27 


 Another part of Hallingbury belonged to Hugh de Nevill ( the forester ) , who had a royal gift of does in 1221 for restocking his park there , and of oak trees for enclosing it.28 Hugh de Nevill and Joan his wife in 1222 obtained a recognition of their own right , and that of Joan's heirs , in 100 solidates of land in Hallingbury.29 John de Neville held fee in Hallingbury in 1242-3.30 John de Nevill ( Curcy , n . 6 ) had licence in 1278 to enclose his wood of Coringehal , adjoining his park of Hallingbury , for the enlargement of the said park . He held at his death in 1282 a manor in Hallingbury , with the advowson of the church , of the king in chief for fee ; Hugh his 14 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 291] ===
 
 
 RODING - MUNDON , WEELEY - BOXTED 275 


 
 
 son was aged 4 years.32 In 1303 Margaret relict of John de Nevill held Hallingbury similarly for fee.33 Hugh , the son , died in 1335 , leaving John de Nevill , knt . , his son , aged 36 and more.34 As John de Nevill of Essex ( of Weathersfield ) he died in 1358 holding the manor of Little Hallingbury , with the advowson of the church , of the king for fee ; William son of John de St. Maur ( ' Semor ' ) of Syleham , Suff . , of full age , was his next heir in blood.35 


 38 


 In 1215 Ralph Morel's land in Roding was committed to the king's bailee.36 In 1223 the count of St. Paul had part of White Roding.37 In 1259 the land of the count of St. Paul in White Roding was committed to Guillelma of the queen's chamber for her support . In 1292 the lands of Henry de Broke in White Roding were extended at £ 10 13s . 6d.39 Henry de Broke died in 1324 holding a messuage and land in that place of the king in chief for fee as of the honor of the count of St. Pol ( St. Paul ) ; John his son was aged 16 and more.40 


 Reference to the manor of Great Hallingbury will be found at n . 48 . 


 Fees , 274. 11. Ibid . 345 . 14. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 45 . 


 198 bis . 


 1. Chartul . 3 , 69. 2. Ibid . 42 . 31 Hen . I , 57 , 139 . 6. Ibid . 139 . 9. R. Lit. Claus . i . 2216. 10. Bk . of 277 , 590. 13. Cal . Inquis . i . 293 . 16. Cal . Close R. 392 . Inquis . iii . 323. 19. Ibid . vi . 70 . 22. R. Lit. Claus . i . 411 , 4836. 23. Cal . Chart . R. i . 255. 24. Ibid . 366 . 27. Ibid . 84 . 29. Essex Feet of F. 65 . 32. Cal . Inquis . ii . 255 . 35. Ibid . x . 345 38. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 297 . 


 17. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 469. 18. Cal . 20. Ibid . vii . 158. 21. Ibid . viii . 471 . 


 26. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 44 . cf. R. Chart . 29 . 31. Cal . Close R. 514 . 


 34. Cal . Inquis . vii . 474 · 37. Ibid . 549b . 40. Cal . Inquis . vi . 376 . 


 
 
 25. Cal . Misc . Inq . i . 206 . 28. R. Lit. Claus . i . 450 ; 30. Bk . of Fees , 901 . 33. Feud . Aids , ii . 139 . 36. R. Lit. Claus . i . 2296 . 39. Cal . Misc . Inq . i . 442 . 


 
 
 3. Ibid . 48. 4. Ibid . 48 . 7. Chartul . 68 , 96 . 


 
 
 &lt; 


 
 
 5. Pipe R. 8. Ibid . 199 . 12. Ibid . 15. Ibid . 


 
 
 XLIV . 


 Eudes the sewer held in Mundon , Essex , in 1086 10 hides ; two franci homines ' had hide which Lisois ( de Moustiers ) had resumed because one of them was outlawed ; there were two arpents of vineyard ; 50 acres more belonged to the manor , 20 acres being in Rivenhall . Eudes held in demesne Weeley as 3 


 hides and 38 acres . 


 
 
 These were two out of the 4 manors given to the monastery of Colchester by Eudes , ¹ and confirmed by William II.2 Later Mundon as 10 hides and Willey as 3 hides were included as part of 38 hides and I carucate on which Henry II acquitted the monks of Colchester of danegeld , murder fines and hidages.³ 


 1. Chartul . 2. 2. Ibid . 18 . 


 3. Ibid . 19 . 


 
 
 XLV . 


 Artur in 1086 held of Eudes the sewer in Boxted , Essex , I hide . There were only 2 fees in this place , namely the above holding and that of Eustace count of Boulogne of 4 hides . The former 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 292] ===
 
 
 276 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 holding appears to have been held of the Breton family ( n . 15 ) , as of the honor of Rayleigh . In 1212 ( ? ) Robert Fitz - Philip held 3 fees in Horkesley , Boxted and Fordham¹ of the honor of Rayleigh , which Robert de Horkesley subsequently held . This family descended from Godebold , who held land in Horkesley and other places in 1086 of Suain of Essex , and from Robert Fitz - Gode bold , founder of Little Horkesley Priory.2 In 1215 king John granted to Philip Fitz - John acquittance to him and his heirs of suits of counties , wapentakes and the like . In 1205 he fined for seisin of 


 
 
 carucate in Walmire , Yorks . , of which he had been disseised by Roald Fitz - Alan , when the said Roald made fine with the king for having the land of William de Rullos.4 


 
 
 In 1224 Robert Fitz - Philip acknowledged that the manor of Boxted was the right of William le Breton , who granted it to the said Robert and Juliaña his wife , sister of the said William , and to Juliana's heirs , for fee.5 In 1234 the said Juliana in her widow hood quitclaimed the said manor to Walter Fitz - Robert for 50 marks ; William le Breton recorded his claim . Subsequently the manor returned to the Bretons for lack of heir of the said Juliana . 


 4 


 In 1261 William le Breton died holding a hall and I carucate of land here of Robert de Hastinges for fee and carucate of Walter de Horkelegh for fee ; John his son was aged 28 years . ' It was presented in 1274 that Sir Robert de Horkele held Little Horkesley , Little Fordham and part of Boxted of the king for 3 fees as of the honor of Rayleigh , whereof Little Fordham and the land in Boxted had been alienated by his father ; that Robert de Boxstede held a moiety of the vill of Boxted for 1 fee as of the honor of Boulogne.8 


 In 1279-81 John le Breton claimed acquittance of suits of wapentakes and the like by virtue of the charter of king John to Philip Fitz - John , whose heir he was . 9 In 1298 he was described as John le Bretoun of Boxted , mesne tenant of land in Harston , Cambs.10 In 1303 he held fee in Boxted , ¹¹ and died in 1311 , holding a hall in Boxted of the heir of Roger de Tany , in the king's wardship , for fee , and land and rent there of William de Horkesley for fee ; Matilda daughter of John le Bretoun the younger , whom ¹ 4 Richard de la Riviere had married , aged 21 years , was his next heir . 12 In the following year the said Richard and his wife gave relief for fee in Boxted.13 1 Morant gives the further descent of this family.14 


 8 


 
 
 It is open to question whether the part of Boxted held of the Horkesleys by the Bretons was that which Artur held of Eudes in 1086. It is to be observed that Everard de Boxstede with the con sent of his son and heir Adam and wife Adeliza gave to the monastery of Colchester , when he became a monk there , 2 lands or lawns in Boxted ; Hugh son of the said Everard notified Gilbert bishop of London ( 1163-1178 ) that he , his mother Adeliza and brothers William and Reginald had given to Colchester the church of Boxted with Warner the grantor's brother , who then took the habit ; Hugh de Polstede and Robert , his mother's brothers consenting.15 Hugh held this fee in 1201.16 


 On the other hand it is probable that the church went with the 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 293] ===
 
 
 BOXTED - BRETTENHAM 277 


 
 
 4 hides on the Boulogne fee , rather than with Eudes ' I hide ; also the service of the former holding was a knight's fee , while the latter was a fourth part only . It is possible , however , that part of Suane's manor of Eiland , now Nayland , which is identified in the Victoria History of Essex 17 as Horkesley , may have included part of Boxted . If so , the conclusion that Eudes ' hide in Boxted was incorporated in the honor of Boulogne would be incontestable , and in that case the local family of Boxsted would hold it , and not the Bretons , as described above . 


 
 
 1. Red Bk . 503 , 738 . 2. V.C.H. Essex , i . , 488 , 490 . 4. R. de Fin . 266. 5. Essex Feet of F. 66. 6. Ibid.97 . 8. R. Hund . i . 140. 9. Placit . de quo war . 209 . 11. Feud . Aids , ii . 138. 12. Cal . Inquis . v . 141 . 14. Hist . of Essex , ii . 240 . 15. Chartul . 151 . cit . 489b . 


 16 . 


 
 
 3. R. Chart . 210 . 7. Cal . Inquis . i . 138 . 10. Cal . Inquis . iii . 369 . 13. Feud . Aids , iii . 440 . R. Cancel . 160 . 17. Op . 


 
 
 XLVI . 


 Eudes the sewer held in 1086 in Brettenham , Norf . , 1½ carucate , which Turgis ( see Roding , n . 43 ) held T.R.E. 


 
 
 Possibly the counts of Eu acquired an interest in this tenement , for it was held by the family of Briançon , who took their name from Briencun ( ? ) in Normandy . 


 
 
 In 1198 an agreement was made between Walter de Cambrun and Alice his wife and Bartholomew de Brienzun , with the consent of John de Brienzun , Bartholomew's brother , whereby Walter and Alice quitclaimed to Bartholomew and his heirs their right in the manor of Thurrock , Essex , for which Bartholomew quitclaimed to them and the heirs of Alice all the land late of Robert de Eu , father of Thomas de Brienzun and of the said Bartholomew , in Normandy and in Vimeu , ¹ so that for default of issue of Alice it should revert to Bartholomew , and for default of issue of Bartholo mew by a wife to be married the manor of Thurrock should revert to Walter and Alice , saving the dower of Bartholomew's wife , besides 10 librates of land which were to remain to John de Brienzun , Bar tholomew's brother ; for this he gave them £ 100 of Anjou ; the manor and lands in Normandy to be respectively held of the count of Eu , namely Briencun in Normandy and the land of Mers 2 in Vimeu.3 


 
 
 Bartholomew was deceased in 1205 , when the custody and marriage of his son and heir were granted to John de Bassingburn to the use of his daughter , with the lands and stock , saving the mother's marriage . In 1213 the heir was still in John's custody , when he had letters of presentation to the church of Thurrock , to which Thomas de Briêncun , brother of Bartholomew , had last presented . In 1219 Bartholomew II , the son and heir of Bar tholomew , was still in the same custody ; his land in Essex , worth £ 40 , was of the fee of the countess of Eu ; Agnes , Bartholomew's relict , was marriageable and her land worth £ 5.6 


 5 


 In 1253 Bartholomew III served in Gascony and in 1257 was serving with prince Edward in Wales . In 1258 the honor and rape of Hastings , with knights ' fees , were given to John de Brittany , the 


 
 
 4 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 294] ===
 
 
 278 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 8 


 king's son - in - law , and with it went a knight's fee in Thurrock which Bartholomew de Briencun held of the said honor ; four years later prince Edward surrendered the honor to Peter of Savoy . In 1270 Bartholomew was a crusader with protection for 4 years , going with the king and Edward his son in aid of the Holy Land . He had a weir in the Thames in 1275 within the city of London.10 He died in 1287 , seised of the manor of West Thurrock and certain other lands in Essex of the inheritance of Joan his wife ; William his son was aged 3 years.¹ 11 The year before his death he had a grant of market and fair at his manor of Aveley ( ' Avillers ' ) , Essex , and free warren at Farnbridge , Essex , and Chesham , Bucks.12 During the last ten years of his life he had frequent commissions in the city of London to inquire into plaints ; one in 1278 by a London Jew that a clipped coin with the forceps for clipping it , tied up in a cloth , had been thrown maliciously on to the top of his house in the city , so that being found there he was thrown into the Tower on suspicion.13 In 1281 Bartholomew impleaded the dean of St. Paul's in the husting about his chattels wrongfully detained.14 In 1291 custody of the manor of Thurrock was granted to Guy Ferre , and the marriage of William , son and heir of Bartholomew de Brienzun , to John de Weston.1 


 15 


 
 
 In 1298 the dower lands in Thurrock lately held by Margery relict of Bartholomew II ( ? ) and of the inheritance of Bartholomew his son fell to the crown , 16 and in 1302 those late held by Joan relict of Bartholomew III ( ? ) . 17 


 
 
 A 


 1 


 In 1302 the heirs of Bartholomew de Brienzun held fee in Brettenham of the countess of Albemarle.18 William de Brienzun died in 1310 , seised of lands in Essex and Buckinghamshire , John his brother , aged 24 , being his heir , 19 who had livery of the inheritance , saving to Eleanor , William's relict , her dower . 20 She later married John Bluet . John de Brienzun died in 1316 , leaving John his son , aged 3 years.21 Elizabeth his relict married John Joce.22 In 1325 the marriage of John the heir was granted to William de Deen.23 John died in 1339 , his wife being pregnant at the time of his decease ; a daughter Joan was born , but died on II August ; William son of Swetman de Alvythele , aged 40 , was her next heir.24 


 
 
 1. Dioc . of Amiens . 2. The vill of Mers is at the mouth of the river Bresle . 3. Feet of F. ( Pipe R. Soc . xxiii . ) , 125 . 4. R. Lit. Claus . i . 41 . 5. Abbrev . Placit . 89. 6. Bk . of Fees , 277 . 7. Cal . Pat . R. 233 , 586 . 11. Cal . Inquis . 


 8. Ibid . 375 , 733. 9. Ibid . 440. 10. R. Hund . i . 428b . ii . 378 ; Cal . Misc . Inquis . i . 382. 12. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 330. 13. Cal . 


 Pat . R. 1278 , p . 285. 14. Ibid . 475. 15. Ibid . 414 , 417 , 16. Ibid . 363 . 17. Ibid . 56. 18. Feud . Aids , iii . 424. 19. Cal . Inquis . v . 149. 20. Cal . Fine R. ii . 87. 21. Cal . Inquis . v . 379 . 22. Cal . Fine R. ii . 348 , 332 . 23. Cal . Pat . R. 195. 24. Cal . Inquis . viii . 171-2 . 


 
 
 XLVII . 


 Eudes the sewer in 1086 held in Tunstall , Norf . , I carucate . He also held in Postwick 2 carucates , in Catton 30 acres . All had been held by Lisois de Moustiers for a manor ; in 1086 ' Eudes his successor ' held it . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 295] ===
 
 
 TUNSTALL , POSTWICK - WAKERLEY 279 


 
 
 After the death of Eudes these tenements appear to have been incorporated in the honor of Hubert de Rye or Henry his son . After the death of the younger Hubert , in 1185-6 , they fell to the pourparty of Isabel , who was married first to Geoffrey de Cestre and secondly , on his death in 1206 , to Roger de Creissy . They descended to Stephen de Creissy , who succeeded his elder brother Hugh in one half of the honor of Rye in May 1263 , ¹ but died issueless a few months later.2 


 
 
 4 


 The king then gave Postwick with other lands of escheat to William de Valence . Apparently it had descended to Richard de St. Denis with other lands late of Stephen de Creissy , and possibly Richard lost them after Evesham . In 1266 an agreement was reached between the said Richard and William de Valence , whereby the estates were to be extended , and then divided equally between them . By the arranged division Postwick fell to the share of William de Valence , who held in 1282 of John le Marshal 2 fees in Postwick and Lexham , 5 and died in possession in 1296 , Aymer his son being aged 28 years . Aymer de Valence , earl of Pembroke , held the manor of Postwick at his death in 1324.7 It fell to the share of Joan daughter of John Comyn and sister and coheir of John Comyn of Badenoch . She married David de Strathbogie , earl of Atholl , in 1307 , who died 28 December , 1326 , holding the manor by the courtesy of England after the death of Joan his wife . 8 


 The land in Tunstall probably merged in the holding in that vill which belonged to the honor of Rye . William son of Baldric Tunestale held land of Hubert de Rye in 1170.9 Baldric de Taverham held fee in Tunstall in 1242-3 of Alina Marshal as of the honor of Rye.10 In 1273 Nicholas de Taverham held fee here of Giles de Wachesham , ¹¹ and in 1295 lands here were held by Simon de Taverham.12 In 1316 Gerard de Wachesham held land in Tunstall and 4 other places of John le Marshal for 3 fees , 13 as of the honor of Rye . 


 
 
 1. Cal . Inquis . i . 170 ; Excerpt . Fin . ii . 398 . 2. Ibid . 407 . Pat . R. 1266 , p . 674 ; 1270 , p . 449 . 4. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 92 . Inquis . ii . 283. 6. Ibid . iii . 254 ; Feud . Aids , iii . 418 . 


 vi . 316. 8. Ibid . 481. 9. Red Bk . ii . App . cclxxiv . 


 11. Cal . Inquis . ii . II . 


 12. Ibid . iii . 147 . 


 909 . 


 13 . 


 
 
 3. Cal . 


 5. Cal . 7. Cal . Inquis . 10. Bk . of Fees , Ibid . vi . 51 . 


 
 
 XLVIII . 


 Eudes Fitz - Hubert held in 1086 in Wakerley , Northants . , 21 hides . 


 In the survey temp . Henry I ( 1124-29 ) there were in Wakerley 21 hides of the fee of Eudes Fitz - Hubert.¹ 


 Like Great Hallingbury , Essex , this land may have passed after the death of Eudes the sewer to the crown . It is curious that the expenditure in 1130 of £ 15 out of the farm of the lands late of Eudes the sewer for repairing the king's buildings and park of Hallingbury was supervised by William de Wacherlai . But the possibility of this manor having been held by the St. Clares before the death of Eudes must not be ignored , for in 1130 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 296] ===
 
 
 280 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 Hamon de St. Clare had remission of danegeld in Northamptonshire of 6s . , ³ just as William de Lanvalei had of 5s . in 1156.4 For the connexion between St. Clare and Lanvalei and between Lanvalei and Burgh , see n . 51 . 


 6 


 In 1163 an amercement upon the men of Wakerley for forest trespass was pardoned by William de Lanvalei , as was William the huntsman's amercement.5 In 1167 William de Lanvalei was pardoned a similar amercement on this land , and two years later Wakerley of William de Lanvalei was amerced a mark for a smithy made in the forest , the charge being pardoned by Lanvalei . 1185 William de Lanvalei II was pardoned an amercement of £ 5 for waste of Wakerley . In 1190 Julian de Hai owed 60 marks for having right of the town of Wakerley according to his charters against William de Lanvalei.9 In 1208-9 the heir of William de Lanvalei held this land , ¹º and in 1215 the land late of William de Lanvalei in Wakerley was committed to the king's bailees.¹¹ 


 In 


 10 


 Soon afterwards this land , with other estates of William de Lanvalei , passed by marriage to John de Burgh ( son of Hubert ) , who had licence in 1228 to impark his wood here and make a deer leap.12 In 1264 John de Burgh the elder had a grant of market and fair at his manor of Camel , Somerset , and of a yearly fair at his manor of Wakerley , Northants.13 This John de Burgh the elder died in 1274 , holding the manor of Hallingbury of the king as of the barony of Lanvalei of the inheritance of Hawise his wife , daughter and heir of William de Lanvalei III , for I fee ( ? ) , and the manor of Wakerley by barony ; Sir John de Burgh the younger , his son , was aged 40 and more . " 


 14 


 John de Burgh died in 1280 , holding inter alia the manors of Hallingbury and Wakerley as of the barony of Lanvalei , the latter for 1 fee ; his heirs were his 3 daughters , Dervorguille , aged 25 , married to Sir Robert Fitz - Walter , Hawise , aged 24 , married to Sir Robert Grelley , and Margery , a nun at Chicksand.15 Wakerley was assigned to the pourparty of Hawise , 16 and descended with the members of the barony of Manchester until alienated in 1309 to John la Warr , knt . , who had married Joan daughter of Robert and Hawise Grelley . ' 


 17 


 
 
 Hallingbury was assigned in 1281 to Dervorguille de Burgh , It and was held in 1303 by Robert Fitz - Walter for I fee.18 passed in 1313 to Christiana , daughter and coheir , 19 who in that year had licence to enfeoff Robert Fitz - Walter and Alice his wife of the moiety of the manor.20 Two years later it was settled by licence on the said Robert for life , with remainder at his death to John le Marshal ( lord of one moiety of the honor of Rye ) and his heirs.21 


 
 
 1. V. C. H. Northants . i . 386b . 2. Pipe R. 31 Hen . I , 139. 3. Ibid . 31 Hen . I , 86 . 4. Ibid . 2 Hen . II , 41 bis . 5. Ibid . 9 Hen . II , 39 . 6. Ibid . 13 Hen . II , 119. 7. Ibid . 15 Hen . II , 76. 8. Ibid . 31 Hen . II , 9. Ibid . 2 Ric . m . 3. 10. Bk . of Fees , 18. 11. R. Lit. Claus . 70 . 13. Ibid . ii . 49. 14. Cal . Inquis . 


 51 . i . 243 . ii . 91-2 . 


 12. Cal . Chart . R. i . 15. Ibid . 198 . 16. Ibid . 330. 17. V. C. H. Lancs . i . 333 . 18. Feud . Aids , ii . 139. 19. Cal . Inquis . v . 38 ; Cal . Close R. 523. 20. Cal . Pat . R. 18 . 


 21. Ibid . 275 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 297] ===
 
 
 EASTON , BEESTON 281 


 
 
 XLIX . 


 In 1086 Rolland held of Eudes Fitz - Hubert in Easton on the Hill ( Optongren ' hundred ) , Northants . , I hide ; in the same Easton ( Willybrook hundred ) 1 hide , which belonged in 1086 to St. Peter of Burgh . 


 
 
 Gilbert de Gand gave to the abbey of St. Pierre sur Dive hide in Easton . 


 Rolland held of Eudes Fitz - Hubert the sewer in Beeston ( and Budna ) , Beds . , 3 hides . 


 David held of the king in Little Casterton , Rutl . , 3 virgates . Asketill de St. Medard held of the abbot of Peterborough land in Northamptonshire and Lincolnshire for 6 knights ' fees , and of the fee of this knight king William the elder gave to Eudes the sewer in Easton 1½ hide and sent his mandate from Normandy into England to the bishop of Coutances and Robert de Oilli that they should give the abbot an equivalent exchange in whichever of the 3 adjoining counties he wished ; but the abbot would not.¹ 


 I 


 C 


 Eudes the sewer gave to St. John's , Colchester , two - thirds of the tithe of Estun , ' 2 in the diocese of Lincoln.3 The place was therefore Easton in Northamptonshire . There is a writ of king Stephen directing queen Alienore to let the monks of Colchester have their tithe of Easton , as they had it in the time of Henry I , ª and a confirmation of the same queen confirming to the monks two - thirds of the tithe of the demesne of Easton , to hold as bene ficially as they had it in the time of Eudes the sewer and as Henry I , her husband ( dominus ) , confirmed the same.5 Easton had therefore escheated to the crown on the death of Eudes and was subsequently held in chief of the crown . No doubt Henry I included it in the dower provided for his wife Eleanor . 


 7 


 In the survey temp . Henry I ( 1124-29 ) Simon de Lindon held both the tenements in Easton as 1 and 2 hides respectively . " We can identify Simon as the son of Rolland , the Domesday tenant , in an interesting manner . Orderic describes how Odo bishop of Bayeux begat a son named John , who was , when the chronicler wrote , very influential in the court of Henry I by reason of his eloquence and probity . This was John of Bayeux , who attested . many of the writs and charters of Henry I during the period 1115– 1130 , once as ' John son of the bishop of Bayeux , ' s his name standing frequently next after the chancellor's in order of pre cedence . Apparently he was dead before Michaelmas 1130 , for then his son Robert , described as ' Robert , grandson ( nepos ) of the bishop , ' rendered account in Northamptonshire of 145 marks for Simon son of Rolland for the plea of the property ( pecunia ) of his ( sui ) , i.e. Robert's , father ; and of 20 marks for a plea of a hind ( bissa ) .10 


 
 
 Further evidence suggests that the plea referred to here had been about a mortgage of the land of Easton to John of Bayeux , Robert's father , by Simon son of Rolland de Lindon ; that Robert had recovered this mortgage or other property of his father against 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 298] ===
 
 
 282 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 Simon ; that Simon held of him the land of Easton ; that Robert had been indicted for an offence against the king's deer , of which he might be suspected owing to the proximity of his manor of Easton on the Hill to the northern part of Rockingham Forest . 


 A document of the year 1204 which Thomas Stapleton cited in his Observations on the Rolls of the Norman Exchequer , ii , p . clxxxii , in evidence of the descent of the Hommet or Humet family , ha an important bearing on the Pipe Roll entry cited above and the suggestions in regard thereto : 


 
 
 Simon de Lindon gives 10 marks for having an inquest if the vill of Easton with the appurtenances was pledged by Simon de Eston , grandfather of this Simon , to Robert grand son ( nepos ) of the bishop , grandfather of William de Humet the constable ( of Normandy ) , and if it was the inheritance and right of this Simon , and if the same Simon de Lindon is his next heir , and if William de Humet had any other entry into that land than by the said Robert , to whom that land was pledged.11 


 
 
 The sequel of the inquest which Simon desired was his subse quent proffer of 300 marks to the king for having Easton and his finding 44 men of Northamptonshire , Rutland and Lincolnshire as sureties for payment.12 In 1205 Easton , the land of William de Humet , was worth £ 10 . IOS . without stock , and with the stock found there £ 16 14s.13 Simon's family took name from Lyndon , Rutland . In 1167 Lindon of Rolland son of Simon was amerced mark for forest trespass.14 Before 1194 Simon de Lindon III married Margaret , daughter and heir of William de Oteringham of Yorkshire by Lecia de Cowlam his wife , and in that year was demanding ( as his wife's attorney ) against Martin Martel and Agnes his wife in Otteringham in Holderness ( Holderness , n . 11 ) .15 


 fee 


 In 1203 the abbot of Crowland was without a day in a plea with Simon de Lindon touching the advowson of the church of Easton , because there was a plea in the king's court between the said abbot and the seneschal of Normandy ( William de Humet ) touching the same church.16 Shortly after this date Simon dé Lindon appealed Reginald de Eston for feloniously carrying 20 marks of his moneys to the king's enemies beyond seas , namely to William de Humet and ( his ) brothers , and giving them the money on condition they secured to him 5 virgates in Easton from the abbot of St. Peter sur Dive , then in the king's hands by reason of the Normans ' lands ; that he did this to the disinheriting of Simon , his lord , whose inheritance that land was , in that the abbot and his house had entry in that land only by the ancestors of William de Humet , to whom the ancestors of him , the said Simon , had pledged that and other land in Easton ; Roger ( sic ) denied the offence and showed that he had gone beyond seas by licence of Geoffrey Fitz - Piers , whose writ he proffered , to do homage to the abbot his lord for the land his father had held of the said abbot , who merely demised to him the land as 


 
 
 1 


 2 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 299] ===
 
 
 EASTON , BEESTON 283 


 
 
 that which was in his own hand.17 It was stated in a plea of the crown in 1254 for the manor of Duddington , Northants . , that prior to 1205 William de Humet had 5 virgates in Easton which he delivered by a fine with other lands to Gerard de Camvill and Nicholaa his wife ; after William's death and the loss of Normandy king John took those 5 virgates and gave them to Simon de Lindon for 200 marks , giving land ( in Duddington ? ) to Gerard and his wife.18 


 
 
 Simon de Lindon in 1204 possessed an interest in Creeton , Lincs . , 19 and in 1208-9 he held 1 fee in chief in Northamptonshire.20 In 1212 he was said to hold 2 fees in this county for William de Humet as of the honor of Chokes , and elsewhere that he held 2 fees late of the said William by fine made with the king.21 As may be seen in the account of the honor of Chokes this reference to the fee of Chokes is unintelligible and probably corrupt . It may be noted that the knight's fee in Creeton , Lincs . , which William de Colevill held of Baldwin Wake , 22 was held of Colevill by Simon de Lindon III . 


 
 
 In 1217 the lands late of Simon de Lindon in 3 counties were committed to Bartholomew Pecche , but later the custody of those lands and of the heir was granted to the bishop of Salisbury , 23 who collected the carucage due in 1220 from 9 carucates in Easton of the land late of Rolland son of Simon de Lindon.24 In 1222 the bishop complained that by reason of the reported death of Simon's son Rolland he had been disseised of the manor of Lyndon , whereupon the king directed William de Cantelupe to restore the same to the bishop until assurance of Rolland's death was received , or until he returned from the Holy Land.25 In 1227 the grant of custody of Simon's land and heirs with their marriage was renewed to the bishop of Salisbury.2 This seems to indicate that there had been a change of custodee or that there was uncertainty in regard to Rolland's decease . 


 26 


 
 
 In 1229 Alan de Lindon had licence to assart his wood of 8 acres called Le Lunde , lying between his manor place of Easton and the king's highway to Stamford.27 In 1230 he was over seas , 28 and in that year presented to the church of Lyndon as a knight ; 29 to that of Creeton , Lincs . , he presented his own brother Richard , who was enjoined to go and be ordained at the summons of the bishop.30 


 In 1231 a curious tragedy came to light . The body of a man who had been slain was found in the river near Stamford and some averred that it was Rolland son of Simon de Lindon and some that it was not . Accordingly the coroner , the people of Easton and of certain vills of the fee of the abbot of Peterborough to the south of Stamford , disinterred the body , when all declared that it was Rolland by recognition of certain marks on the face , nose and hands ; this was also confirmed by a lady friend of Rolland by whom he had had a boy , and by Alina , Rolland's own sister . It was alleged further by certain neighbours that Rolland and two other travellers had come to Easton and been received by Sir Alan the parson , Rolland's brother , but were never seen thereafter.31 Alan de Lindon after wards found sureties to answer before the justices if anyone charged 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 300] ===
 
 
 284 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 him with the death of an unknown man , ' for whose death seven of Alan's men were detained in Northampton gaol.32 


 1 


 8 


 In 1236 ( ? ) Alan de Lindon held of the king 2 fees , namely fee in Easton , Northants . , fee in Little Casterton , Rutland , I fee in Budna ( Budenho ' ) and Beeston , Beds.33 In 1239 he was dead , leaving Matilda his relict surviving.34 In the following year Richard de Lindon presented to the church of Easton , and again , as a knight , 10 years later.35 In 1241 the service of Richard de Lindon for fee ( in Brigsley and Waithe , Lincs . ) was assigned in dower to Margaret countess of Lincoln.36 


 
 
 In 1242-3 Richard de Lindon held of the king in chief in Easton , Northants . , and ( Little ) Casterton , Rutland , 1 fee ; in Budna and Beeston , Beds . , I fee.37 He died in 1254 holding the manor of Easton ( with the members ) of the king for 2 fees , the manor of Creeton of Sir Walter de Colevill for 1 fee ; Simon his son was aged 24 years , 38 and gave £ 10 relief and had livery of his inheritance.39 . It seems clear that Rolland , Alan , and the above - named Richard were sons of Simon de Lindon III , and that Alan and Richard had been ordained priests . Whether the tragedy of Rolland's death cast a blight on the family or not may be a matter for surmise , but the fact remains that the status of the family seems to have declined during the next 50 years . In 1257 Sir Simon de Lindon attested a deed in favour of the nuns of Wothorpe , Northants.40 


 It was presented from Willybrook hundred in 1275 that the grandfather of Simon de Lindon , 24 years before , had given to the nuns of Wothorpe ( Wrythorpe ' ) by Stamford 30 acres of land of the manor of Easton ; 41 in 1276 from Little Casterton that Richard de Lindon had 20 years before built a wall on the king's highway there and encroached land ; 42 and in 1275 that Simon de Lindon had warren in Creeton , Lincs.43 Sir Simon de Lindon , knt . , gave land in Easton to the nuns of St. Mary's , ' Wyrthorp , ' abutting on land . which Sir Simon de Lindon had given them.44 


 
 
 In 1282 Simon de Lindon was amerced 100 marks for not having the service of 2 knights at Rhuddlan on the morrow of St. Peter ad Vincula in the army of Wales.45 He demised the manor of Lyndon to Master Henry Sampson , who released his right in 1285 to the king and queen , 46 which suggests that he had alienated this manor ; it was in the hands of Edward II in 1312.47 Simon held the manor of Creeton in 1288 of Roger de Colevill for 1 fee , 48 and was living in 1294 ; but in 1298 Simon de Bokministre died seised of 2 messuages . in Little Casterton which he held of the king as of his manor of Easton for fee , which he and his ancestors sometime held of Simon de Lindon and his ancestors as of the said manor of Easton , which manor Eleanor the king's consort had acquired from Simon de Lindon and was then in the king's hands ; Simon de Lindon had held the manor , including a park and covert , a tall wood in the forest of Kingscliffe , and a fishery in the water of Welland , of the king for 2 fees.49 


 1 


 
 
 In 1303 Simon de Bokministre held Little Casterton for 1 fee ; 50 Richard de Lindon held & fee in Creeton , Lincs . , 51 but this entry may be anachronous . In 1316 queen Margaret was lady of Easton . 52 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 301] ===
 
 
 EASTON , BEESTON - GAMLINGAY 285 


 
 
 The manor house was occasionally the residence of Edward I and Edward II . It was valued at £ 40 in 1319 , when it was settled upon Edmund of Woodstock , the king's brother . 53 


 
 
 1. Chron . Petroburg . 168 . 4. Ibid . 31. 5. Ibid . 38 . Eccles . ( ed . Le Prevost ) , iii . 9. Ibid . passim , pp . 74-134 . 12. Ibid . 218 , 272-3 . 13 Hen . II , 125. 15. R. Cur . Placit . 39. 17. Ibid . 76b . 20. Bk . of Fees , 18. 21. Red Bk . 173 , 534. 22. Bk . of Fees , 182 . 24. Bk . of Fees , 326 ; Excerpt . Fin . i , 53 . 25. R. Lit. Claus . i . 510. 26. Pat . R. 110. 27. Close R. 262 , 327 ; Cal . 28. Close R. 345. 29. Reg . Welles , ii . 158 , 179 . 31. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 514 . 


 2. Colchester Chartul . 3 . 3. Ibid . 62-3 . 6. V. C. H. Northants . i . 3676 , 388. 7. Hist . 263-4 . 8. Farrer , Itin . of Hen . I , n . 381 . 10. Pipe R. 31 Hen . I , 82. 11. R. de Fin . 13. R. Norman . 134. 14. Pipe R. Reg . i . 77 ; R. de Oblat . 43. 16. Abbrev . 18. Ibid . 1396 . 19. R. de Oblat . 209 . 


 199 . 


 23. R. Lit. Claus . i . 309 , 329 . 


 Chart . R. i . 113 . 30. Ibid . iii . 175 . 


 33. Bk . of Fees , 603 . 197 , 246 . 


 32. Close R. 489 . 34. Excerpt . Fin . i . 330. 35. Reg . Grosseteste , 36. Close R. 261. 37. Bk . of Fees , 931. 38. Cal . Inquis . i . 88. 39. Excerpt . Fin . ii 199. 40. Cat . of Anct . D. iii . , D. 195 ; cf. D. 98 . 41. R. Hund . ii . 14 . 44. Cat . of Anct . D. ii . , B. 3740 . 46. Cal . 49. Ibid . iii . 52. Ibid . iv . 23 . 


 42. Ibid . 53 


 Close R. 375- 47. Ibid . 415 . 350-1 . 50. Feud . Aids , iv . 205 . 53. Cal . Chart . R. iii . 416 . 


 43. Ibid . i . 261b . 45. Cal . Pat . R. 35 ; ibid . 1294 , p . 48. Cal . Inquis . ii . 421 . 51. Ibid . iii . 147 . 


 
 
 348 . 


 
 
 L. 


 Eudes Fitz - Hubert held in Gamlingay , Cambs . , 18 hides , of which a Frenchman held hide ; in Hatley St. George I hide . 


 Eudes gave to the abbey of Colchester two - thirds of the tithe of Gamlingay.¹ After his death the manor was given to Eustace count of Boulogne , who confirmed to Colchester the tithes of those manors which Eudes the sewer had given , which manors ' michi rex donavit , ' namely tithe of the mill of Lilly Church ( in Higham , Kent ) , tithe of Gamlingay , Roding , Witham , Eriswell and the church of Newsells.2 Stephen count of Mortain and his wife Matilda similarly confirmed.3 


 
 
 Mr. Round has shewn how queen Matilda pledged 10 markates of land in Gamlingay in 1141 to Gervase ( de Cornhill ) , the justiciar of London , and , the debt being never repaid , that the land so pledged remained in the line of Cornhill and was held in 10 librates of land in 1217 by the heirs of Gervase.4 


 6 


 Stephen's youngest son William , count of Boulogne and earl of Warenne , held the manor in 1158,5 the year before his death at Toulouse . He gave to Sawtrey abbey 220 acres in Gamlingay in confirmation of a grant made by his father . Possibly his widow Isabel de Warenne held the honor of Boulogne until 1164 , when she married Hameline Plantagenet , the king's illegitimate brother . For the year ending at Michaelmas 1165 , Ralph le Breton accounted as farmer for the issues of the honor and so until 1179 ; but in 1167 he stated that the king had forbidden him to answer for the issues of Gamlingay and other manors . Presumably the issues of these were paid into the king's chamber or wardrobe . 


 8 


 Ilbert de Carenci had land in Gamlingay from the latter half of Stephen's reign and gave some part to the monks of Sawtrey ; he 


 9 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 302] ===
 
 
 286 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 still held it in 1167.10 There appears to be no evidence when the residue of the manor was granted , but before the year 1200 Roger Fitz - Reinfrid had ro librates , Walter Avenel 10 librates , and Joan wife of Hugh de Nevill the forester and daughter of Henry de Cornhill 10 librates ; the whole manor being worth £ 30 a year ; In 1206 Reinfrid son of Roger Fitz Reinfrid had land in Gamlingay and Hatley , 12 which passed after his death to his brother , Ralph de la Bruere . 


 11 


 
 
 Some years later the tenure of Gamlingay was thus described : ' Gamlingay is worth £ 30 ; of which the heirs of Roger Fitz - Rein frid hold 10 librates , Richard Avenel 10 librates , and the heirs of Gervase de Cornhill 10 librates.'13 In the same return Warin Fitz Gerold was said to hold 1 fee here ; 14 but this entry may be corrupt . 


 In 1217 these tenements were held by knights ' service of the honor of Boulogne : by Henry de Cornhill ( recte Hugh de Nevill ) I fee , Ralph de Bruera ( son of Roger Fitz - Reinfrid ) fee , and Richard Avenel fee.15 Ralph de la Bruere seems to have held land here of William de Warenne , which was in pledge to a Jew circa 1227.16 Richard Avenel gave land in Gamlingay to St. Neots , his son William confirming the same.17 In 1236-38 Robert Avenel held fee and Walter de Leicestre fee in Gamlingay of the honor of Boulogne , and Gilbert son of Thomas fee here of the honor of Nevill the forester , as of the honor of Boulogne.18 In 1246 Richard de Leicestre impleaded the prior of St. Botolph's , Colchester , for the advowson of the church here , 19 and in the following year a fine of land here was levied between Thomas son of Dreu de Huntingdon and Agnes his wife and Adam abbot of Sawtrey . 20 In 1248 the said Thomas and his wife were tenants and Richard de Leicestre demandant in a fine of land here.21 In that year Gilbert son of Thomas ( de Ilketeshale ) had a grant of free warren in Gamlingay and other places ( Chester , 103 ) .22 


 In 1265 the land of James son of Gilbert de Gamenegeye ( in Gamlingay ? ) , worth £ 10 , and that of William de Leicestre in Gam lingay , worth £ 10 , were seised to the king's use because they were suspected of being adherents of the earl of Leicester.23 In 1268 Walter de Leicester passed by fine to Walter de Merton the advow son of a mediety of the church here.24 It was presented in 1279 that the vill of Gamlingay was formerly the escheat of king Stephen ( sic ) , who enfeoffed the ancestors of John Avenel , William de Leicestre and Hugh de Babington of the whole vill , except a tenement which he gave to Walkelin his seneschal , which descended to Ralph la Faced , and later to Ilbert de Carenci , who gave his tenement to the abbot of Sawtrey ; John Avenel , knt . , held of Robert Fitz - Walter fee and a mediety of the church ; William de Leicestre held fee of Adam Fitz - Simon and he of Robert Fitz Walter , but the said William sold his whole tenement to Dom . Walter de Merton , who gave it to the house of scholars of Merton at Oxford ; the prior of Merton had 20s . of rent there by the gift of Ralph de la Bruere ; Hugh de Babington , knt . , held of John de Nevill fee ; the said Robert Fitz - Walter and John de Nevill held of the king as of the honor of Boulogne , to which honor also 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 303] ===
 
 
 + 


 
 
 GAMLINGAY - HAMERTON , CHALK 


 287 


 belonged a messuage held by Richard de Edenesore of the earl of Gloucester by knight's service and suit to the earl's court of Croy Royse.25 


 
 
 In 1302-3 William Avenel , the scholars of Merton , Oxford , and Richard de Babington held each fee in Gamlingay.26 In 1328 the same William and the said scholars held each fee here of Robert Fitz - Walter of Hempnall , Norf . , 27 and in 1330 William Avenel died seised of a manor with a market here , held of the heir of Robert Fitz - Walter for fee ; John his son was aged 23 years.28 


 For the land in Hatley St. George see the author's Feudal Cambridgeshire , 166. The vill was of the honors of Peverel of Bourn and Richmond . There is nothing to indicate the honor in which the hide held by Eudes in 1086 was subsequently incorporated . 


 
 
 1 2 


 
 
 1. Chartul . 3 . 2. Ibid . 47. 3. Ibid . 48. 4. Geof . de Mandeville , 120 . 5. Pipe R. 4 Hen . II , 166. 6. Brit . Mus . , Facsim . of Chs . n . 37. 7. Pipe R. II Hen . II , 26. 8. Ibid . 13 Hen . II , 158 . 9. Mon. Anglic . v . 521 note . 10. Pipe R. 13 Hen . II , 166. 11. Bk . of Fees , 343. 12. Camb . Feet of F. ( Rec . Com . ) , 319. 13. Bk . of Fees , 239 . 14. Ibid . 237. 15. Pat . R. 131 , 172 . 16. Cat . of Anct . D. iii . D. 118. 17. Chartulary , Faus tina A. iv . f . 98d , 99. 18. Lib . de Bernewelle , 244. 19. Rye , Cal . of Camb . Fines , 26. 20. Ibid . 28. 21. Ibid . 30. 22. Cal . Chart . R. i . 329. 23. Cal . Misc . Inquis . i . 194. 24. Rye , Cal . of Camb . Fines , 42 . ii . 5926 , ff . 26. Feud . Aids , i . 149. 27. Cal . Ing . vii . 129 . 265 . 


 25 . 


 R. Hund . 28. Ibid . 


 
 
 LI . 


 Eudes Fitz - Hubert the sewer held in Hamerton , Hunts . , 15 hides ; Adam ( Fitz - Hubert ) held of the bishop of Bayeux in Chalk , Kent , 3 solins , in East Chart 3 solins ; of this land 2 knights held 2 hides . 


 
 
 Eudes gave to Colchester abbey two - thirds of the tithe of Hamerton . William de St. Clare gave the church of Hamerton by charter attested by Richard de Amblie , Roger son of Fulk , and others . Hubert de St. Clare confirmed the gift for the soul of William de St. Clare , his father's brother , in the same terms as the donor's charter , with , besides the above witnesses , some eight others.³ Hubert attested the confirmation by Aubrey de Damartin and Matilda his wife of the gift of the said church . Robert bishop of Lincoln , who was invoked by William and Hubert de St. Clare to confirm their gift , did so by charter attested by Martin the treasurer and others.5 The date will be 1147-1156 . William de Lanvalei I ( husband of Gunnora and father of William de Lanvalei II ) confirmed the gift of his ancestors , namely Hugh de St. Clare and William his brother , of inter alia the church of Hamerton ; Ralph de Roucestre being a witness . He also gave to Ralph de Lanvalei , his younger son , after the decease of dame Clemency ( wife of Hubert de St. Clare ) , the vill of Hamerton to hold of the donor's son , William de Lanvalei II , for fee ; Nicholas archdeacon too ! of Huntingdon ( occ . 1167-1176 ) was a witness . The younger William confirmed to Colchester abbey the gift of the church of Hamerton made by his ancestors the St. Clares ( as above ) ; Eustace de Roucestre and Ralph de Lanvalei were witnesses . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 304] ===
 
 
 288 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 9 


 11 


 In 1130 William de St. Clare had remission of 30s . of danegeld in Huntingdonshire , evidently in respect of this manor , and of 20s . out of an amercement of 40 marks charged on the men of the county for the hays of Brampton.10 He had also remission of 19s . of danegeld in Dorset , and Hamon de St. Clare had remission of 6s . of danegeld in Kent . In 1156 William de Lanvalei had remission of danegeld in Huntingdonshire ( in respect of Hamerton ) 12 and in Kent of 7s . ( in respect of Chalk ) , and of 30s . 2d . , his portion of the donum of Kent and murder fines amounting to £ 106 13s . 4d.13 In 1162 he had a similar remission of danegeld in respect of Chalk.¹4 In 1157 he was pardoned IIS . 8d . ( on Chalk ) out of 10 marks charged in Sharnwell hundred for a murder.15 


 
 
 In 1177 William de Lanvalei was pardoned 10s . , being his pro portion of an amercement in Leytonstone hundred for a murder.16 Possibly he died in 1180 , for in that year the sheriff of Dorset and Somerset eased his farm of £ 10 in Shaftesbury in favour of William son of William de Lanvalei , where previously he had done so in favour of William de Lanvalei.17 In 1183 William de Lanvalei ( younger ) was pardoned 3s . 9d . out of 40s . for a murder in Leyton stone hundred.18 Two years later he was similarly pardoned 2s . 6d . out of 2 marks in the same hundred.19 


 
 
 In 1185 it was presented from Leytonstone hundred , Hunts . , that Clemency de St. Clare , aged 60 years , was of the king's gift and held Hamerton ( Haut ' ) of William de Lanvalei ; it was worth £ 20 a year with the stock of 4 plough - teams and 300 sheep.20 From the hundred of Broadwater , Herts . , it was presented that Clemency late wife of Hubert de St. Clare , aged 80 , was of the king's gift , her land of Weston being worth a shilling less than £ 4 , but worth £ 5 with an augmented stock of half a plough - team and 40 sheep.21 From the Essex hundred of Lexden it was presented that William de Lanvalei was in the king's custody , his age un known . Mr. Round shows that his land in this hundred was in Stanway , inherited from the St. Clares.22 From Witham hundred it was presented that William de Lanvalei's land in Hallingbury ( n . 43 ) was worth £ 17 a year.23 


 William de Lanvalei , son of William de Lanvalei , knt . , gave to abbot Adam and the monks of Colchester land in Lexden , Essex , in exchange for virgate which Clemency his grandmother gave them , for the soul of Gunnora the grantor's mother , of her mari tagium in Weston.24 Mr. H. J. Ellis has noted a grant of William 


 de Lanvalei to Eustace de Roucestre as fee all his land in Weston as Clemency the grantor's grandmother held it at her death.25 


 William de Lanvalei II , son of William de Lanvalei I , con firmed to Colchester abbey inter alia tithes of Hallingbury for the health of the soul of Hawise his wife and for the souls of William his father and Gunnora his mother ; Eustace de Roucestre and Ralph de Lanvalei attested.26 In her viduity Hawise de Lanvalei , daughter of Hugh de Boclonde , gave to Colchester certain villeins and their land in ' Tatcheworde ' ( ? Tetworth , Hunts . ) . 27 This gift was confirmed by John de Burgh.28 Matilda de Lanvalei gave land in Harston , Cambs . , 29 and this was confirmed by Hamon Pecche , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 305] ===
 
 
 HAMERTON 289 


 
 
 son of Gilbert Pecche , for the soul of Matilda de Lanvalei his sister ; 30 and by John de Burgh , for the health of the soul of Hawise his wife , as the gift of Matilda de Lanvaley , mother of his wife Hawise.31 This corrects Clutterbuck's pedigree of Lanvalei . 


 
 
 In 1194 William de Lanvalei owed 100 marks for the king's goodwill and for having his land and chattels which were taken into the king's hands.32 In 1198 he and Ralph de Lanvalei had licence to agree in a plea of land in Hamerton , Hunts . , and in Blackgrove , Berks.33 In 1200 he gave 200 marks for having the custody of the castle of Colchester and of the forest to Chelmsford as he had it in the time of King Richard.34 The fine was subse quently enlarged to 400 marks and custody of the forest to that over 7 hundreds.35 In 1205 William de Lanvalei III was under age.36 Two years later he and Hawise his mother undertook to render 300 marks owing by William de Beauchamp , 37 to whom the king then con firmed the gift which William de Lanvalei had made to him of the vill of Great Bromley , Essex , with the advowson of the church , in marriage with Gunnora sister of the donor.38 In 1212 William de Lanvalei held 100 solidates of land in Blackgrove , Berks . , which Henry II gave to Ralph ( sic ) his grandfather.39 In July 1215 a mandate was issued for the delivery to William de Lanvalei of the castle of Colchester , 40 but on 17 October following various writs were issued for livery of the lands late of the said William to various ministers of the crown.41 


 
 
 On 5 November , 1217 , his lands were granted to Hubert de Burgh , 42 although on the 7 and 29 October the same lands and the marriage of the heirs had been given to John Marshal.43 It was presented in 1219 from Shamell hundred , in which Chalk lay , that Sir Hubert de Burgh had the wardship of a certain maid , who was the heir of William de Lanvalei , with the manors of Chalk and Henherst , worth £ 40 a year.4 44 Sir Hubert married the heiress to his son John and so brought to the family a large inheritance . 


 
 
 In 1219 an assize was to recognize if Robert the smith , father of Robert the complainant , was seised of 4 virgates in Wackerley , Northants . ( n . 48 ) , which Matilda de Lanvalei held , who vouched to warranty Hawise daughter and heir of William de Lanvalei III , son of William II ; Hubert de Burgh , the justiciar , guardian of the said Hawise , appeared for her and stated that William de Lanvalei II , grandfather of Hawise , died seised of that land and William her father likewise ; complainant stated that William II , the grand father , gave the land to Robert his father and at Robert's death took it into his hands by reason of custody and so died holding it in custody , when William his son entered by reason of the same custody and died holding the same ; the land being held in socage Robert was dismissed until Hawise was of full age . 


 45 


 In 1230 custody of the castle of Colchester was committed to John de Burgh , with such things belonging to the custody as William de Lanvalei had when he kept it ; 46 the sheriffs of Essex 


 
 
 III . U 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 306] ===
 
 
 290 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 and Cambridge were directed to respite the demand for sheriff's aid from the lands of John de Burgh and Hawise his wife while he was in the king's service ; and the said John also had respite of the crown debt of William de Lanvalei.47 


 
 
 In 1232 John and Hawise demanded against William de Beau champ custody of a moiety of the vill of Hamerton , Hunts . , which belonged to them because John de Beauchamp , William's son , and likewise heir of William's late wife Gunnora , by whom the same William had that custody , was dead and his heir under age and ought to hold that land of them by knight's service.48 Similarly they demanded against the same William the manor of Great Bromley as the right of Hawise , in which he had entry only by Gunnora de Lanvalei , formerly his wife , to whom Hawise de Lanvalei , formerly wife of William de Lanvalei , demised it , who had only dower therein by her husband's gift , who was grandfather of this Hawise whose heir she was.49 


 
 
 In 1233 the executors of the will of Hawise de Lanvaley obtained a writ to the barons of the exchequer that the debt demanded from Hawise , who held nothing except her dower of the lands late of William Lanvalei , should be demanded from the heirs of the said William ; 50 accordingly four months later John de Burgh and Hawise his wife had terms of payment set in respect of a crown debt of £ 125 8s . for the fine made by Hawise de Lanvalei , grandmother of the said Hawise wife of John de Burgh.51 In 1236-38 William de Beauchamp held the fee of Hamerton , in which were 8 hides.52 There were 7 other hides , not mentioned in this return , and it may be assumed that they were held in alms of John de Burgh . In 1242-3 John de Burgh held East Chalk of the barony of Hawise his wife . 53 


 3 


 
 
 In 1235 John de Burgh and Hawise his wife granted to William de Beauchamp for life the manor of Great Bromley to hold of him and the heirs of Hawise for fee . 54 The descent of Hamerton was closely connected with the descent of the honor of Bedford after this time . In 1257 William de Beauchamp of Bedford gave certain of his lands to his son William , who died in 1262,55 Three years later John brother and heir of the younger William had livery of the inheritance . He was slain at Evesham in 1265 , and presumably Thomas Fitz - Otes , who had adhered to Henry and prince Edward and had married Beatrice second sister of John , obtained Hamerton from the crown , to which it had been escheated . He held it at his death in 1274 of Sir John de Burgh as of the barony of Lanvalei ; Otto or Otes his son was aged 10 years . 56 The manor was assigned to Beatrice his relict in dower.57 


 
 
 In 1270 John de Burgh the elder , ' son and heir of Hubert de Burgh , ' gave to the monks of Bermondsey the manor of Chalk . 58 In 1272 the prior of Croyroys ( Royston ) demanded against Robert de Weston and Hawise his wife ( ? relict of John de Burgh , elder ) that they should warrant to him the fourth part of the manor of Hamerton , except the advowson of the church , which John de Burgh the younger claimed against him as his right.59 It was presented in 1279 that William de Munchenesy and Beatrice his 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 307] ===
 
 
 HAMERTON 291 


 
 
 wife held the manor of Hamerton in dower of Otes son of Thomas , who held it of John de Burgh as of the barony of Lanvalei ; the prior of Croyroys had 1 carucate in demesne and 61 virgates in villeinage ; the advowson belonged to Colchester abbey.60 In 1281 custody of the manors of Hamerton , Hunts . , and Little Bel champ , Essex , was granted to Hugh Fitz - Otes during the minority of Otes the son and heir , Beatrice late wife of Thomas Fitz - Otes 


 being deceased . 61 The young heir died in 1282 , when his three sisters , Joan , aged 14 , Matilda , aged 11 , and Beatrice , aged 8 , were next heirs of Hamerton.62 In 1284-5 the prior of Bermondsey held the manor of Chalk , Kent , for I fee of John de Burgh as of the barony of Lanvalei . 63 


 
 
 In 1302 John Buteturte and Matilda his wife , sister and heir of Otto son and heir of Beatrice of Beauchamp , sometime the wife of William de Munchenesy of Edwardstone , had seisin of the lands which the said William had held in chief by the courtesy of England ( including Hamerton ) of the inheritance of Beatrice . 64 


 
 
 In 1303 John Butetourte held 1 fee in Hamerton , and was lord of the vill in 1316.65 He died in 1324 seised of the manor , which he had held jointly with Matilda his wife for life of Robert Fitz Walter the elder in right of Dervorguille , sometime his wife , one of the heirs of John de Burgh ; John son of Thomas son of the said John Butetourte , aged 7 , was his heir.66 


 In concluding this section it seems desirable to describe as con cisely as possible the pedigree of Lanvalei . In the time of Henry I Hugh and William de St. Clare of Essex were brothers , the last named holding Hamerton in 1130 ; Hubert de St. Clare described William as his paternal uncle . It is suggested that he had issue a daughter Gunnora who married William de Lanvelei I , who held Hamerton in 1156. They had issue William de Lanvalei II ( d . 1180-82 ) , and a daughter Gunnora who married William de Beau champ and had issue . William de Lanvalei II married Hawise daughter of Hugh de Boclonde and died between 1200 and 1205 . In the last - named year Geoffrey Fitz - Piers had custody of his land . 67 William de Lanvalei III , a minor in 1205 , married Matilda daughter of Gilbert Pecche and sister of Hamon Pecche . He died in 1215 or 1217 , leaving issue an only daughter Hawise , who married John de Burgh the elder and was mother of John de Burgh the younger . 


 
 
 1. Chartul . 3. 2. Ibid . 155. 3. Ibid . 161. 4. Ibid . 162. 5. Ibid . 122. 6. Ibid . 197. 7. Ibid . 198. 8. Ibid . 9. Pipe R. 31 Hen . I , 49 . 10. Ibid . 48. 11. Ibid . 67. 12. Pipe R. 2 Hen . II , 14. 13. Ibid . 67 . 14. Ibid . 8 Hen . II , 55. 15. Ibid . 3 Hen . II , 103. 16. Ibid . 23 Hen . II , 181. 17. Ibid . 26 Hen . II , 106. 18. Ibid . 29 Hen . II , 44. 19. Ibid . 31 Hen . II , 59 . 20. R. de Dominabus , 47. 21. Ibid . 66 . 22. Ibid . 70 . 23. Ibid . 80. 24. Chartul . of Colchester , 199. 25. Harl . ch . 52 , I. 37 26. Chartul . of Colchester , 199–200 . 29. Ibid . 203 . 


 27. Ibid . 202 . 


 28. Ibid . 204 . 


 30. Ibid . 204. 31. Ibid . 205. 32. Pipe R. 6 Ric . m . 8 . 


 33. R. Cur . Reg . i . 435 , 450-1 . 


 36. Abbrev . Placit . 73 . 


 34. R. de Oblat . 89 . 35. Ibid . 102 . 37. R. de Fin . 372. 38. R. Chart . 167. 39. Bk . of Fees , 107 ; cf. ibid . 87. 40. R. Lit. Pat . 151 . i . 231b . 42. Ibid . 3416 . 43. Ibid . 328 , 337 . 269. 45. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 43. 46. Close R. 314 . 


 41. R. Lit. Claus . 44. Bk . of Fees , 47. Ibid . 429 . 50. Excerpt . Fin . i . 246 . 


 48. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 681 . 


 49. Ibid . n . 682 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 308] ===
 
 
 292 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 54. Essex Cal . Inquis . 59. Abbrev . 62. Cal . 63. Feud . Aids , iii . 1 ; cf. Ibid . 41. 64. Cal . Fine R. 65. Feud . Aids , ii . 470 , 472. 66. Cal . Inquis . vi . 368. 67. R. 


 52. Lib . de Bernewelle , 269. 53. Testa , 214b . 55. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 254 , 381 , 427 . 56 . Close R. 81. 58. Annals of Bermondsey , 464 . 60. R. Hund . ii . 619. 61. Cal . Pat . R. 449 . 


 
 
 51. Ibid . 269 . Feet of F. 109 . ii . 40 . 57. Cal . Placit . 184b . Inquis . ii . 246 . 


 i . 454 . de Fin . 279 . 


 
 
 LII . 


 Adam ( Fitz - Hubert ) held in 1086 of the bishop of Bayeux in Pympe ( in Nettlested ) , Kent , I jugum.¹ 


 Ranulf de Columbels held of the same bishop in ( West ) Barming ( Bermelie ' ) I jugum.2 


 
 
 3 


 In 1187 the sheriff of Kent accounted for 40s . of 2 fees of Scot landus and William de Bermeling of the fee of Eudes the sewer for the scutage of Galloway . In 1196 there were 2 fees out of the 14 fees held by Robert de Crevequer which were in the king's hands , namely Hugh de Botiler 1 fee and William de Bermelinges I fee.4 In 1199 only one of these fees of the fee late of Robert de Crevequer was in the king's hands , namely William de Barmelinges 1 fee.5 In 1201 he gave 3 marks in lieu of service over seas in respect of I fee held in chief . In 1212 he and Thomas de Nessenden held 1 fee ( in Barming ) . " 


 
 
 In 1232 the king took the homage of Ralph de Barlinges alias Barmeling , son and heir of William de Barlinges , of 1 fee which the same William held in chief in Barming.8 In 1242 Ralph de Barmeling was dead , and John his son and heir , whose custody had been given to Roger Wattehose , king's serjeant , was also deceased and had been buried in the churchyard of St. Mary's , Southampton ; whereupon his inheritance in Barming and Pympe ( in Nettlested ) was delivered to Robert brother and heir of the said Ralph.9 In 1242-3 Robert de Barmlinges held 1 fee in Barming in chief of the king.10 He died in 1269 holding the manor of Barmling with land in Pympe of the king for 1 fee ; William his son was aged 30 and more.11 


 
 
 12 


 William de Barmling died in 1294 , seised of the manor of West Barming with the hamlets of Pympe and Ledhok held as above ; Robert his son was aged 30 and more . In 1303 Robert Barmeling held 1 fee in West Barming and in 1346 John de Freningham and John de Huntingdon held it.13 John son of Ralph de Freningham died in 1349 holding two - thirds of the manor of West Barming with the advowson of the church for fee ; Ralph de Freningham , knt . , aged 25 and more , was his heir.14 John son of John de Freningham died in 1351 holding the like tenement for fee ; the above - named Ralph was his heir . 15 


 
 
 2. Ibid . 


 1. Dom . Bk . i . f . 8d . 4. Red Bk . 96 . 5. Ibid . 131 , 134 . 


 3. Pipe R. 33 Hen . II , 209 . 6. R. de Oblat . 161 . 7. Red Bk . 475 . 8. Excerpt . Fin . i . 231 , 235 . 9. Ibid . 385. 10. Bk . of Fees . 11. Cal . Inquis . i . 221 . 12. Ibid . iii . 107 . 13. Feud . Aids , iii . 45 . 14. Cal . Inquis . ix . 311 . 15. Ibid . 427 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 309] ===
 
 
 PYMPE - STALISFIELD , ORES - GRAVELEY 293 


 
 
 LIII . 


 Adam Fitz - Hubert held of the bishop of Bayeux in Ores 2 solins , in Stalisfield ( ' Stauefelle ' ) 2 solins . 


 
 
 3 


 William Cade was an important financier about the king's court and chamber during the first 10 years of the reign of Henry II , receiv ing and making innumerable payments . He was farmer of Dover from the first year of the reign down to 1161 and received the issues to his own use . He had a grant of 30 solidates of land in Sutton ( Valence ? ) in 1159.¹ In 1162 half a mark charged on Ores for a default was pardoned to William Cade , ² and in the same year the sum of £ 38 6s . out of the farm of Berkshire was paid to him for gold to prepare a crown and regalia for the king's son Henry ( born 10 April , 1155 ) . He had several sons , who seem to have been London merchants ; one of them , Eustace , had a grant of land in Wellingore and Navenby , Lincs . , temporarily forfeited in 1173.5 Eustace probably died at Midsummer 1184 , when half of Navenby fell into the king's hands . " For further reference see the article by Mr. H. Jenkinson , on William Cade , a Financier of the Twelfth Century , ' in English Historical Review , xxxviii . 209 ff . , which shews that he had financial dealings with a great number of barons , sheriffs , and other important men during the period 1155-1166 . Mr. Jenkinson describes him as a Christian usurer . ' 


 4 


 
 
 In 1199 the gift of the land of Stalisfield and Ores to the brethren of the Hospital of Jerusalem , made by Ernaud Cade son of William Cade , received the royal confirmation . Arnulf Cade also gave a parcel of land at Ospringe , Kent , to the hospital there.8 The Hospitallers held in 1346 in Stalisfield and Ores 1 fee which Reginald de Cornhill held of them . " 


 
 
 1. Pipe R. 6 Hen . II , 53 . 43 . 4. Ibid . 11 Hen . II , 31 . 30 Hen . II , 21 ; 31 Hen . II , 93 . i . 318. 9. Feud . Aids , iii . 36 . 


 
 
 2. Ibid . 8 Hen . II , 54. 3. Ibid . 8 Hen . II , 5. Farrer , Lancs . Pipe R. 29. 6. Pipe R. 8. Cal . Chart . R. 


 7. R. Chart . 16 . 


 
 
 LIV . 


 Adam ( Fitz - Hubert ) held of the bishop of Bayeux in 1086 in Hertfordshire , namely in Titeberst ( in Aldenham ) hide , Lampeth ' hide , Graveley 1 hide and 10 acres , Almeshoe ( in Ippolitts ) I hide , Little Wymondley I hide and 1 virgate , Radwell 4 hides , Barley 1 hide , ‘ Haslehangra ' hide . 


 I 


 Simon son of Adam held in 1166 of the bishop of Ely 1 fee of old feoffment ( in Bishop's Hatfield , Herts . ) . 1 Simon son of Adam last presented , prior to 1216 , to the church of Graveley and chapel of Chesfield . In 1216 a carucate in Hatfield ( ' Hedfeld ' ) , Herts . , late of Adam son of William , was committed to Master Simon the king's cook . In the following year Adam returned to allegiance and had a writ of reseisin directed to William de Casingeham . * In 1218 and 1222 Adam son of William presented jointly with another to the church of Radwell . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 310] ===
 
 
 294 HONOR OF EUDES THE SEWER 


 
 
 About this time he held of the honor of Dover in Harthanger I fee , Graveney I fee and Down 1 fee , and owed 50s . for castle guard of Dover.5 In 1225 he was a justice of gaol delivery at Chelmsford and Hertford , " and a commissioner in the following year to assess and collect the fifteenth in those counties . " He presented to the church of Graveley in 1224. In 1225 there was a dispute touching the presentation to Graveley , to which John son of William and Ralph son of William were parties ; Adam son of William recorded his claim , 8 and in 1232 defended his right in the advowson of the church of Chesfield claimed by Robert de la Hay.⁹ 


 
 
 In 1236 Ralph de la Haye and Robert de la Haye held 1 fee in Chesfield and Graveley of the barony of Valoignes , 10 which Godfrey held of Peter de Valoignes at the Survey . In 1242 Simon son of Adam presented to the church of Radwell . In 1254 Simon son of Adam de Hatfeld had a grant of free warren in Hatfield , Almeshoe and Radwell , Herts . , and Shoebury , Essex ; and was exempted from being put on assizes or made sheriff or the like against his will.11 In 1252 Richard de Rokesle acknowledged to Simon son of Adam that I carucate in Shoebury and 4 other places in Essex was the right of the said Simon and Fina his wife and their issue to hold for I fee , and in exchange Simon granted to Richard land in Shelve ( in Lenham ) , Kent ( n . 14 above ) , and certain lands in the parishes . of Lenham , Ulcombe and Reyton with all feudal appurtenances except the services of Peter de Oteringber , Bertin of the same , Robert de la Dune and William de Hertangre for their respective tenements in that county ; Richard and his wife Matilda and their issue to hold for I fee.12 


 
 
 In 1274 John son of Simon had free warren at Shoebury , ¹ where land was held of him in 1294.1 14 He presented to the church of Radwell in 1304. Possibly , however , there were two Johns during this period , father and son , for in 1304 John son of John son of Simon died holding the manor of Almeshoe with its members of Robert Fitz Walter for fee , land in Titeberst of Robert Saleman , lands in the manor of Bishop's Hatfield of the bishop of Ely for fee , besides other lands , including the manor of Stambridge , Essex , of the inheritance of Petronilla his wife ; Edward his son was aged 6 years.15 From the tenure of Almeshoe it appears that in this fee the lands of Eudes the sewer had passed to the honor of Valoignes , or otherwise that not all the land of his brother Adam came to Eudes and his honor . 


 
 
 13 


 
 
 In 1303 Robert de Rokesle held in Lenham , Kent , fee of the heirs of John Fitz - Simon ; Robert de la Dunne held fee there of Simon Fitz - Adam ( sic ) ; 16 John Fitz - Simon held 1 fee in Great Stambridge , Essex , by barony , 17 and fee in Almeshoe , Graveley , Radwell and Barley , Herts . , of Robert Fitz - Walter.18 In 1327 land in Little Holwell in the manor of Bishop's Hatfield was held of Sir Hugh le Fitz - Simond as of his manor of Simondeshyde , 19 and in 1328 Hugh Fitz - Simon held of Robert Fitz - Walter , then deceased , 2 fees . in Almeshoe , Graveley and Radwell.20 


 
 
 In 1340 Petronilla late wife of John de Benstede died holding in dower of the inheritance of Hugh Fitz - Simond , who held of John 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 311] ===
 
 
 1 


 
 
 ALMESHOE , GRAVELEY , RADWELL 


 295 


 Fitz - Walter , the manor of Almeshoe for I fee.21 Hugh le Fitz Symund , knt . , was living in 1345 , when he held the manor of Caxton , Cambs . , for the life of Margaret his wife , late wife of Richard de Frevill . 22 


 
 
 2. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 864 . 


 3. R. Lit. Claus . 


 Ibid . 318. 5. Red Bk . 615 , 711. 6. R. Lit. Claus . ii . 76b . 8. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 706. 9. Ibid . 864. 10. Bk . of 11. Cal . Pat . R. 388. 12. Essex Feet of F. 192 . 14. Cal . Inquis . iii . 131. 15. Ibid . iv . 149. 16. Feud . 17. Ibid . ii . 136. 18. Ibid . 430 . 


 13. R. 


 19. Cal . Inquis . vi . 482 . 21. Ibid . viii . 250. 22. Ibid . 451 . 


 
 
 1. Red Bk . 365 . i . 245b . 4 . 7. Ibid . 147 . Fees , 578 . Hund . i . 162 . 


 
 
 Aids , iii . 40 . 20. Ibid . vii . 129 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 312] ===
 
 
 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 ( LEWES AND CASTLEACRE ) 


 
 
 Place . 


 1. Hamsey , Saddlescombe , Suss . ; Stinton , 


 Norf .. 


 Chesney - Cressi Say . 


 2. Portslade , Suss . , also in Norf . , Suff . Pierpont - Burgh - Bar & c . 


 
 
 7. Kennet , Cambs .; Elvedon , Suff . 8. Orleswick , Suss .; Fincham , Norf . 


 9. Perching , Suss .; Addington , Surr . 10. Kingston Bucy , Suss . 


 II . Bevendean , Suss .; Middleton , Suff . 12. Shere , Surr .; Greatham , Hants . 


 
 
 3. Poynings , Suss .; Wrentham , Suff . 4. Hurstpierpoint , Suss . 


 5. Iford , Suss .; Barsham , Norf . 


 6. Barcombe , Suss .; High Roding , Essex Watevill - Pierpont 


 
 
 13. Hangleton , Suss .; Feltwell , Norf . 14. Wickensands , Suss .. 


 
 
 17. Hurstmonceaux , Suss . 


 18. Wickham by Steyning , Suss . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 15. Kingston , near Lewes , Suss . 


 16. Whitchurch , Salop ; Gresham , Aylmer ton , Norf . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 h 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Tenant's Name . 


 
 
 26. Gt . Dunmow , Aveley , Essex 


 27. Gt . Ryburgh , Little Snoring , Norf .; 


 Brundon , Essex . . 


 
 
 dolf . 


 Poinings . Pierpont . Plaiz . 


 
 
 19. Blatchington , Suss .. 


 20. W. Barsham , Norf .; Deepden , Suff .. 21. Hilborough , Illington , Denver , Norf .. Cailli . 22. Attleborough , Scoulton , Stanford , 


 Norf .. 


 23. Burnham Thorpe , Fulmodeston , Norf . Grancurt - L'Estrange 


 -Calthorpe . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Gatesden . Kenet - Bigod . 


 Maners Benefeld Aguillon - Bardolf . 


 Buci . 


 Fokinton - La Warre . Clere - Fitz - Piers , alias 


 Fitz - John , Butler . Cokefeld - Beauchamp . 


 La Mare . 


 Kingston . 


 Warenne of Whit church - Blancmoster . 


 
 
 Monceaus . 


 Wickham ( ? ) — Wys ham . 


 
 
 24. Ryburgh , Stibbard , Tattersett , Norf . Valoignes . 25. Gressenhall , Elsing , Norf . 


 
 
 Wivill , alias Weyvill . Wanci , alias Wauncy . 


 
 
 Mortemer . 


 
 
 Fitz - Wimar Stute 


 vill - Foliot . 


 
 
 Bumstede . 


 
 
 . Munpincun . 


 
 
 ▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬ 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 313] ===
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 297 


 
 
 Place . 


 28. Weston Colville , Cambs . 29. Arkesden , Essex 


 
 
 30. Polhey in Pebmarsh , Essex 31. Howsham , Cowick Bury , Essex . 32. Caversfield , Bucks .; Stratton , Oxon .. 33. Stoke Bruern , Alderton , N'hants . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 47. ( 1 ) Itteringham , Wolterton , Norf . 48. Stinton , Norf . 


 49. Hillington , Norf . 


 
 
 50. Rougham , Fransham , Norf . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 34. Wing , Crafton , Bucks . 


 35. Carlton Scroop , Lincs .; Barmbrough , Yorks . 


 36. Bennington , Lincs . 


 37. Cusworth , Yorks . 


 38. Walton , Shepley , Dalton , Yorks . 


 39. Mapledurham , Oxon . 


 40. Castleacre , Tilney , Norf . . 


 41. Wimbotsham , Norf . 


 42. Egmere , Welborne , Norf . 43. Hautbois , Norf . 


 44. Blonorton , Norf . 


 45. Grimston , Congham , Norf . 


 46. Foulsham , Guist , Themelthorpe , Norf . Sanes - Gerberge . 47. Carlton , Willingham , Cambs . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Tenant's Name . 


 Stutevill - Colevill . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Ardern Abbot Walden . Essarts - Pebmeshe . 


 
 
 Ardern . 


 
 
 Talbot Warenne . 


 
 
 Gargate - Winecote . Malquenci - Briwerre Chaworth Combe - martyn . Earl of 


 
 
 of 


 
 
 Bosevill - Neufmarché . St. Paul , alias St. Pol . Freschevill . 


 Fitz - Swain 


 Burgh , 


 
 
 and others . Gurnay - Bardolf Wormegay . Glanvill ( ? ) 


 Chevre 


 vill , alias Chervill . Ingoldesthorp . Crek - Fitz - Osbert . 


 
 
 Grantcurt 


 priory . Wolterton . 


 
 
 Hautbois ( de Alto Bosco ) , Baynard . Saxham 


 La Snore 


 Brom . 


 Belhus St. Clare , alias Sinclair - Reppes . 


 
 
 Pierpont ( n . 6 ) . 


 
 
 of 


 
 
 Lewes 


 
 
 Clere Le Rus - Bri ouze , alias Braiose . Burdeleis - Merlai Earl of Warenne Reppes . 


 
 
 Gatesden 


 
 
 INTRODUCTION 


 It is outside the scheme of this work to repeat what has been written already about the house of Warenne , earls of Surrey . A few notes will suffice to illustrate special features of the descent , distribution , and feudal service of this honor . After the conquest William de Warenne became lord of the rape of Lewes , in which it is possible that he resigned lands in exchange for certain manors in Norfolk , Suffolk and Essex , which were described in the survey as 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 314] ===
 
 
 298 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 held or claimed for the exchange of Lewes , or for the castelry of Lewes . These were described in the time of Henry II as the earl of Warenne's ' new land . ' Other lands in those counties , which had been held before the conquest mainly by Tocha , were derived from William's brother Frederic , who was slain by Hereward before the rebellion of 1070.1 These were described in the time of Henry II as the earl of Warenne's ' old land . ' The only Domesday fee which was incorporated in the honor of Warenne subsequently to the Domesday survey was that of Roger son of Renard . See n . 22 . 


 4 


 5 


 The identity of William's first wife , Gundreda , has been the subject of much discussion.2 She is called by Orderic and by the compiler of the Chronicle of Hyde the sister of Gherbod , 3 a Fleming who was made earl of Chester in 1070 , and then , return ing to Flanders , where there were civil wars , was taken prisoner shortly afterwards and disappears from English history . Gherbod was advocate of the abbey of St. Bertin at Sithiu ( now St. Omer ) . In one of William de Warenne's charters to Lewes queen Matilda is called the mother of Gundreda , and it is on the meaning of these words mater uxoris mee that the controversy turns . If another charter has been read correctly , king William calls Gundreda his daughter , and she is styled his daughter also in the fifteenth century pedigree of the earls of Warenne in the Lewes chartulary . The words filie mee in king William's charter , as printed , are due to a seventeenth - century interlineation ; the original words are now quite illegible , and the sense would be satisfied by filiorum . The charter has been accepted as genuine ( see Davis , Regesta , n . 232 ) , but its form is not that of a royal charter . Stapleton's theory that Gundreda was daughter of queen Matilda by a first ( and quite unknown ) husband is refuted by Chester Waters ' citation from a letter of St. Anselm to Henry I ( Ep . iv . 84 ) . Another suggestion , that she was the queen's goddaughter , it is difficult to accept . One alternative remains - that she was an adopted daughter . As she was the wife of William de Warenne before Lewes priory was founded ( 1078 ) , she was probably born about 1055 to 1060 , and thus would be of similar age to the children of the Conqueror and Matilda , and may have been brought up with them . Gundreda died at Castleacre , in childbed , on 27 May , 1085 , and was buried at Lewes , where her remains and those of her husband were found in 1845. Her marble gravestone had been taken , after the destruction of the priory , to the neighbouring church of Isford , and used for a Shirley family tomb , but it was recognised in 1774 and taken to Southover church , close to the priory site . The inscription calls her the offspring of dukes . ( stirps ducum ) and the ornament of her age , a Martha in caring for the wretched and a Mary in piety . The earl's epitaph , from the Lewes chartulary , is printed in Dugdale's Baronage . William's ' second wife , whose name is not known , offered at his death Ioos . to the monks of Ely for prayers for his soul , but they were afraid to take it.9 She is not mentioned in the Lewes chartulary , but is called sister of Richard Guet in the Bermondsey Chronicle ( 1098 ) , ¹º and was probably of the family of Gouet or Goet , 


 6 


 7 


 8 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 315] ===
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 299 


 
 
 lords of Montmirail ( Sarthe ) . The Richard named held largely under Warenne in Essex . 


 The second earl William , who succeeded his father on the latter's death on 24 June , 1088 , married Isabel daughter of Hugh le Magne , count of Vermandois , whom he abducted from her husband Robert , count of Meulan , before his death in 1118.11 


 
 
 A confirmation by Henry I of grants made by this earl , of about the year 1115 , recites gifts to Lewes by William de Grigneuseville ( Grinnosa villa ) of land in Eartham , Suss . , and by Hugh de Grigneuseville of rent in lieu of tithes of his land of Caston , Norf . , land in Brighton formerly held of Ralph Fitz - Warin , which may have formed part of the late fee of William de Watevill ( n . 5 ) , and the 6 churches on the Domesday fee of the same William de Watevill in Sussex.12 A recent forfeiture of the fee of William de Watevill might possibly account for this special confirmation to Lewes . An early charter of the second earl confirms to Lewes for the health of his brother Rainald 3 hides in Moulscombe , given by Richard the archdeacon , which Mr. Round has identified as part of 7 hides in Patcham , held by Richard , ' when a knight of the same Richard held 1 hide more . This land was to be held as freely as Falmer ( Falemella ) , which St. Pancras held at the date of the survey.13 The witnesses of the earl's charter included Ranulf de Chesney ( de Querceto ) , Robert de Petraponte , William son of Godfrey de Petraponte , Ralph son of Ralph ( not Ranulf as above ) , Godfrey de Petraponte , Nigel son - in - law of Godfrey , and Humphrey . 


 
 
 An abstract of the important charter ( or memorial ) of the grants to Lewes priory passed by the second earl is given at the end of this introduction . Two other important charters of his are preserved in the Castleacre chartulary . ( 1 ) The earl , the countess Isabel his wife , and their sons William and Ralph give to the monks of Acre 40 solidates of land in Barmer , Stanhoe , Plumstead , Wickmere , and Itteringham , Norf . , to which were witnesses Osbert de Caillei , W. de Cricetot , Henry de Ria , Robert constitutor , Robert de Frievill , Osmund the despenser , Ralph de St. Martin , and Ralph de Acre.14 ( 2 ) The countess Isabel notified Osmund the despenser that her lord the earl had given her the church of Trunch ( next Gimingham ) and she had given it to the monks of Acre.15 The same earl of Surrey directed Reiner de Grantecurte to permit the monks of Acre to hold the land ( in Tattersett which Hugh de Pinchenni gave for his own soul , and William his son confirmed , and 60 acres of land that the same William gave for his sister's marriage ; Roger Fitz - Wimar , the earl's sewer , was directed that if Reiner ( de Grantecurt ) did injury to the monks he was to cause justice to be done.16 In a confirmation charter to Castleacre we read that Reiner de Grantecurt gave his tithes of Barsham and 12 acres of arable , and 120 acres of heath in Tatter sett ; that Hugh ( de Pinchenni ) his man gave his tithe and 60 acres of land.¹7 In the time of king John the descendant of Hugh , namely William de Pinkenni , granted to his kinsman Ralph the priest , son of Hugh le Rus , and to John his brother , in fee , the 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 316] ===
 
 
 300 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 whole tenement which William de Pinkenni his grandfather and Ralph de Pinkenni his father gave to Hugh le Rus , namely 41 


 acres in the fields of Tattersett.18 


 
 
 William de Warenne , earl of Surrey , gave to the apostles Peter and Paul at the stead of St. Pancras , for the health of his brother Rainald , the land which William de Caili held of him , land which the monks had in Shippy ( in Tilney ) , Norf . , land in ' Salingeford , ' and the marsh of Lynn , 2 hides in Willingham , Suff . , which Walter de Grantcurt held , and the donor's demesne land from ' Bouehorne bridge to Chailey on the east of the way unto that by the bridge of Homewoods of Ralph de Chesney . Witnesses : Roger de Glowe cestre and his brother Osbert , Godfrey de Petraponte , Richard de Warenne , Hugh de Grigneuseville ( Greniosa villa ) and Robert de Busevill.19 The date was before 1106 . 


 
 
 The following charter illustrates the relationship between the issue of Robert count of Meulan and the second earl of Warenne . William de Warenne and the countess Isabel his wife and their sons , William and Ralph , gave to the infirm brethren of All Saints of Belencumbre ( in the Pais de Caux ) certain tillages , and the countess Isabel gave of her inheritance and patrimony of Quillebeuf 100 shillings of Rouen yearly , with the consent of Waleran count of Meulan her son , in the presence of Hugh archbishop of Rouen when he dedicated the said church of All Saints ; in England 100s . of the rent of their burgh of Lewes . Done in 1135 and then confirmed by Henry I.20 


 
 
 William de Warenne , at the request of William de Trublevill , made a grant to the priory of Longueville of a tenement at Bourg Dun ( Seine Infér . ) , which was attested by the countess Isabel , wife of the earl , William and Ralph their sons , who consented , William de Criketot and Guy the butler , William son of Gulbert , Ralph ( de Rosei ? ) the clerk of Rosei , Walter de Grigneuseville ( Grinnosevilla ) , and others . 21 A charter to the monks of St. Evroult of the same earl was attested by the countess Isabel , Jordan de Blossevill , and Richard de Torcei.22 


 
 
 The earl's holdings in different counties are illustrated by the remission of danegeld made in his favour . In 1129 in Yorkshire 78s . , Norfolk £ 18 13s . 9d . , Sussex £ 9 , and Suffolk 15s .; in 1130 in Yorkshire £ 6 2s . 4d . , Hampshire 16s . , Cambridgeshire 32s . , Surrey £ 6 , Essex £ 6 , Sussex £ 52 Is . , Norfolk £ 29 10s . and £ 18 13s . 9d . , Suffolk 24s . 7d . , and Buckinghamshire 28s.23 Total £ 123 75. Sd . , representing the tax on 1233 hides . 


 The second earl died 11 May , 1138. William , his eldest son and third earl of Surrey , confirmed to the monks of Lewes about 1145-1146 the lands they held of his fee and granted plenary tithe from all his demesne lands and a full tenth penny of his rents in England , and gave seisin thereof by hair from his own head and that of Ralph de Warenne his brother , cut with a knife by Henry bishop of Winchester before the altar , when he caused the church of St. Pancras to be dedicated . Among the witnesses were William earl of Chichester , Ralph de Warenne , Reginald de Warenne , Hugh de Petrepont , Ralph de Pleiz , Robert de Wesneval , Robert de 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 317] ===
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 301 


 
 
 Frievill , Robert de Petrepont , William de Petrepont , Adam de Puninges , Guy de Mercecurt , William his son ( filio suo ) , and William de Drosei . 24 He confirmed to Lewes 20 solidates of land at Massing ham , Norf . , of the gift of Robert de Frievill , with a provision that if he could not warrant the land to Robert's heir the monks should have 20 solidates elsewhere on Robert's fee . The witnesses were Rainald de Warenne , Ralph de Wiburcvill , Baldwin de Frievill and William de Sartilli.25 


 
 
 The earl , shortly before he joined the crusade of Louis VII of France , founded the priory of canons of the Holy Sepulchre at Thetford , for the remission of the sins of his mother Isabel and of his brothers , Ralph and Reginald , and gave to it churches , tithes and lands within and without the borough of Thetford , to hold as beneficially as king Stephen had held the same , who gave them to the donor ; his said brother and Ralph de Bailol being witnesses.26 The earl set out for the Holy Land in 1147 , and there lost his life , being slain by the Turks in the defiles of Laodicea on 19 January , 1148.27 Soon after that date Reginald de Warenne notified the sheriff of Lewes and the barons of the earl ( of Warenne ) that he had restored to the burgesses of Lewes their merchants ' guild as they had it in the time of his grandfather and father , with covenant that he would do his best , if God brought back the earl ( from the crusade ) , to obtain his confirmation , or , if otherwise , that of William earl ( of Warenne ? ) the king's son . 28 This charter seems to suggest that king Stephen had already given Isabel daughter and heir of the third earl to his son William of Blois , then a youth of about 14 years . The youthful earl died in October 1159 , soon after his return from the siege of Toulouse . The countess Isabel appears to have had the honor of Lancaster for her dower , but on her marriage to Hamelin Plantagenet , illegitimate brother of Henry II , in 1164 , that honor was taken by Henry II into his own hands . 


 
 
 C 


 The following references to the fourth earl are found in the Pipe Rolls of the 2nd to the 4th year of Henry II . In 1156 danegeld in Norfolk of £ 8 5s . 5d . on the land of the earl of Warenne was in respite until the close of Whitsuntide 1157 , as also was £ 6 16s . od . on the earl's land out of 200 marks of assize of the county , in respect of which 37 marks of the earl's new land ' were pardoned ; in Suffolk £ 9 13s . 2d . was similarly in respite out of £ 15 1S . 5d . remaining due of the old assize of that county ; 28s . 8d . of the new assize of £ 80 being pardoned . In Sussex £ 23 12s . of the aid of the county and pleas , amounting in all to £ 67 6s . 8d . , was in respite on the earl's land ( £ 20 of the former being pardoned in 1157 ) , and £ 16 19s . 2d . of danegeld until Christmas . ( This was pardoned in 1157. ) In Essex £ 10 and 7d . of the donum of the county was pardoned to the earl . 


 
 
 In 1157 the earl was pardoned £ 18 out of the donum of Yorkshire and York city of £ 334 2s . 8d .; in Surrey £ 4 9s . 4d . of danegeld , in Cambridgeshire £ 5 2s . 3d . of the same and 27s . 5d . out of £ 5 for a murder in Radfield hundred ( in respect of Weston Colville ? ) . The earl had a small estate in Somerset . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 318] ===
 
 
 302 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 In 1158 Ralph de Paveilli accounted for 30 marks for a priest slain , paid £ 4 16s . 8d . and owed the balance , which Reginald de Warenne rendered . The following exemptions from murder and other fines in favour of the earl were recorded : 


 
 
 Name of Hundred . South Greenhoe Herbert de Chatte grave's sureties 


 ( Hundred unnamed ) 


 Clackclose 


 Grimshoe 


 Shropham 


 Loddon 


 
 
 Humbleyard 


 
 
 Deepwade 


 Forehoe 


 
 
 Wilford , Suff . 


 
 
 Amercement on the Hundred . 


 £ 10 


 
 
 205 . 


 Iom . 


 £ 10 


 IOM . 


 
 
 £ 10 


 £ 20 


 
 
 20m . 


 
 
 30m . 


 IOOS . 


 
 
 20m . 


 
 
 Earl of Warenne's Proportion . 


 £ 4 on the earl's new land 


 
 
 20s . 


 Iom . on the earl's new land 


 64s . 


 46s . IId . 


 " " 


 " " 


 19s . 2d . ( 9s 8d . on his ancient land 8s . 4d . 


 3s . 4d . on the earl's new land 8s . on his land of the honor of Eye ( 47s . 14s . on the earl's new land 38s . 6d . 


 " " 


 " " 


 
 
 59 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 59 


 
 
 ور 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 25 . 


 " " 


 £ 11 16s . ( ? of land of the honor of Eye ) 


 
 
 The earl was also pardoned an amercement of 20s . on Glatton , Hunts . , 2 marks charged against Ralph de Rosei ( on Yen Hall ) in Cambridgeshire and 20s . on Gamlingay ; in Hampshire 5s . 5d . of a murder fine of 5m . on Meon Stoke hundred ; in Leicestershire 48s . of the donum of 80 marks . The above form part only of the remissions made to the earl in the 3 years 1156-1158 . It is necessary to remember that the remissions on land of the honor of Eye were in respect of the dower of the countess Isabel . 


 I 


 In 1162 earl Hamelin ( ? ) obtained remission of danegeld as follows : Warwickshire £ 4 2s . , on the earl's demesne of Lancaster £ 11 17s . 5d . , Gloucestershire 10s . , Norfolk £ 46 14s . 8d . , and on the demesnes of the countess £ 6 2s . , Suffolk 74s . 2d . He seems to have been styled earl of Warenne upon betrothal to the countess Isabel . In 1164 the farmers of London and Middlesex charged their account with £ 41 10s . 8d . for the clothes of the countess of Warenne , purchased for her trousseau.29 In 1165 Folcr ( un ? ) de Lewes was amerced 20 marks , of which 8 marks ( and 12 marks more in 1166 ) were pardoned to ' Hamelin earl of Warenne . ' 30 


 The earl returned no carta of his knights ' fees in 1166. Two years later the Norfolk roll is full of remissions of amercements to the earl and Reginald de Warenne , now lord of Wormegay , in respect of the pleas of the archdeacon of Poitou and his fellow justices . The details are as follows : 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 319] ===
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 303 


 
 
 Name of Hundred 


 8 hundreds of St. ) Edmund , Babergh and Lackford 


 
 
 5 hundreds of St. Etheldreda 


 Stow 


 Brothercross and Gal 


 low Clackclose 


 
 
 Flegg and Happing Smithdown and Free bridge hundred and half 


 ( Blofield and ) Walsham S. Erpingham Holt 


 
 
 Greenhoe 


 Humbleyard Henstead 


 Loddon 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Eynesford 


 Wayland Grimshoe 


 Mitford hundred and 


 half 


 Forehoe hundred and 


 half Deepwade 


 Launditch and S. 


 
 
 Knavering Guiltcross 


 
 
 Amercement on the Hundred . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 6m . 


 
 
 27 m . 


 2111 . 


 
 
 Iom . 


 5m . 


 I8m . 


 
 
 25m . 


 
 
 I011 . 


 IOM . 


 IOOS . 


 IOOS . 


 5m . 


 5m . 


 
 
 IOOS . 


 
 
 5m . 


 4m . 


 
 
 Iom . 


 5m . 


 4m . 


 4m . 


 4m . 


 5m . 


 
 
 Earl of Warenne's Proportion . 


 14s . 5d . on the earl's new land 


 
 
 25. 10d . 


 IS . 


 
 
 39s . 


 27s . 4d . 


 4s . 6d . 


 £ 4 17s . 9d . 


 
 
 ISd . 


 25s . 


 7s . 9d . 


 6s . 8d . I3S . 2d . 18s . 7d . 


 31S . 4d . 


 
 
 245 . 


 6d . 


 
 
 78s . 6d . 


 15d . 


 12d . 


 
 
 5s . 5d . 


 4s . 5d . 13S . 4d . 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 } } 


 
 
 ,, 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 35 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 35 


 
 
 99 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 23 


 
 
 A 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 : &gt; 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 C 


 It has been suggested above that the earl of Warenne's land described as his new land ' ( nova terra ) was that described in the Domesday survey as of the exchange of Lewes ; it may be suggested further that when that exchange was made these new lands were specially exempted from murder penalties and other amercements . The term ' nova terra ' actually occurs in the survey under William de Warenne's land in Launditch hundred , where in the account of Weasenham it is stated : ' Hoc est de escagio de nova terra . ' 31 It is also noteworthy that no relief or remission was granted in the hundred of Taverham , in which the only land held by William de Warenne in the survey was in Taverham of the fee of ' Fretheric ' ; not being of the exchange of Lewes . In Deepwade , Loddon and Knavering the only lands of this honor were those of the fee of Roger son of Renard in the survey , namely in Hudeston in Bunwell I carucate , Mundham 20 acres , and Raveningham 2 carucates and 2 acres.32 It is difficult to explain what land in the hundreds of Walsham and Humbleyard fell under the description of the earl of Warenne's new land . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 320] ===
 
 
 304 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 In 1172 the knights of the earl of Warenne accounted for £ 60 to the scutage of Ireland , 33 of which £ 9 was pardoned to Hugh de Creissi . For more than a century from this date the scutage of the honor was always based on 60 knights ' fees . 


 
 
 In 1177 the earl was pardoned £ 6 16s . 8d . , namely of tallage of the royal demesnes in Forehoe hundred 16s . 6d . , South Greenhoe 28s . , in Tunstead hundred for a default by the township of Bradfield 21s . , and other similar penalties ; an amercement of 10 marks on the township of Lewes was also pardoned to the earl , as were murder penalties of 24s . out of 46s . on Crechesfeld hundred and 2s . 8d . out of 5s . 5d . on Wotton hundred , Surrey.34 In 1185 the earl owed mark for waste of the wood of Greatham , Hants.35 


 
 
 Hamelin earl of Warenne died in April 1202 , according to the accepted statement , and the Countess Isabel on 13 July , 1199. There is reason to believe that these dates have been confused and that the earl died in 1199 and his countess in 1202. A charter , of which Mr. Watson , the historian of Halifax and of the House of Warenne , has in the latter work preserved a facsimile , records that the countess made a grant to Richard de Cumbes of a virgate late of Ailnod de Cumbes and of Robert father of the said Richard ' post obitum domini et viri mei Hamelini comitis Warennie . ' 36 On the dorse of membrane 12 of the Patent roll covering the period 8 to 22 July , 1202 , is a record of 8 sureties of the countess of Warrenne de facto pro quo ipsa capta est . ' 37 On 12 May , 1202 , at Pont del Arche , the king directed a writ patent to the tenants of the land late of earl H. de Warenne , notifying them that he , having heard of the death of the said earl , had taken the homage of William son of the said earl for the land which the said earl had held of him , and directing them to do fealty to the said William for the land they had held of the said earl , ´ salva fide matris sue . ' 38 Clearly then the countess Isabel was alive in May and July 1202 . 


 One hears much about the defective drainage of the Marshland near Lynn , Norf . , in the time of Edward III . Here the earls of Warenne had an interest . In 1199 the Premonstratensian canons of West Dereham obtained a confirmation of the gift by Hamelin earl of Warenne , Isabel his wife and William their son , of a rent of 40s . customarily paid to them by William Le Curteis for a moiety of the fishery of Merchenfen.39 


 
 
 In 1206 the earl of Warenne owed 100 marks of a prest made to him in Poitou , and Roger de Creissi £ 10 for the same.40 


 Possibly owing to the relationship of the later earls of Warenne to the crown no demand in respect of fees of new feoffment was ever made against them , nor does it appear that they were called to account precisely for aids and scutages , like other barons . They simply paid in gross the contribution due from 60 knights ' fees . 


 Upon the collection of the scutage of Wales in 1211 the earl Warenne had acquittance by writ in respect of the 60 fees of his barony , and in 1218 he owed £ 120 in respect of his 60 fees . 


 A schedule of those who held of the honor of Warenne in 1242-3 is recorded in Book of Fees , 690-91 , and supplies the names of 20 tenants , holding 661 and fees . Of these fees 3 were in Surrey 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 321] ===
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 305 


 
 
 ( ibid . 686–87 ) , 11 fees in Essex ( ibid . 900 ) , 221 fees in Norf . and Suff . ( ibid . 904-07 and 919 ) , which contributed to the aid of 1236 ; in Cambridgeshire 2 fees ( ibid . 923 and 927 ) ; in Buckinghamshire I fees 41 ( ibid . 870 and 878 ) ; in Lincolnshire 1 fee ( ibid . 1094 ) ; in Yorkshire 3 fees ( ibid . 1101 ) ; in Hampshire 1 fee ( ibid . 700 and 705 ) ; in Oxfordshire fee ( ibid . 826 ) ; in Sussex about 21 fees can be traced in the returns of the aids levied in 1302-3 and 1346 . These particulars yield a total of 683 fees . 


 I 


 4 


 An indication that the actual feoffments of knights greatly exceeded those narrated above is found in the feoffment made in 1319 by John de Warenne , earl of Surrey , to Thomas earl of Lan caster , of inter alia 391 fees in 51 places in Norfolk and Suffolk , and in 2 places in Essex , 2 fees in Westerfield and Wrentham , Suff . , and 4 fees in Cambridgeshire and Sussex.42 


 As the Sussex return of 1242-3 is the only complete return which has been found of the knights who held of the honor and of their fees of a date prior to 1250 , it is here given in full : 


 
 
 These hold of the honor of Warenne , which is in the hand of lord Peter de Savoy , to wit : 


 William de Say holds 14 knights ' fees in Hammes of the same honor . 


 John de Burgo 10 knights ' fees in Porteslade of the same honor . 


 
 
 Thomas de Poninges 10 knights ' fees in Poninges of the same honor . 


 Simon de Petra Ponte 10 knights ' fees in Herst of the same honor . 


 Hugh de Playz 7 knights ' fees in Iford and Werpesburn of the same honor . 


 John de Gatesden 3 knights ' fees in Bercompe of the same honor . 


 Peter de Kenet 2 knights ' fees in Twynem of the same honor . 


 
 
 Cardo de Hangelton and ) 


 Ralph de Meyners 


 same honor . 


 William Aguillun 1 knight's fee in Percinges of the same honor . 


 William de Buscy 1 knight's fee in [ Kingston by Lewes ] of the same honor . 


 Hugh de Fokinton I knight's fee in Bevenden of the same honor . 


 The abbot of Sipeton ( Sybenton ) I knight's fee in Rot tingeden of the same honor . 


 Robert de Cukefeld 1 knight's fee in Hangelton of the same honor . 


 Pain de Mara knight's fee in Sandes of the same honor . Warin de Kyngestonknight's fee in Kingeston of the same honor . 


 John de Gatesden knight's fee in Dicheling of the same honor . 


 
 
 3 knights ' fees in Hangelton of the 


 
 
 * 


 
 
 III . * 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 322] ===
 
 
 306 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 William de Munceus 


 
 
 honor . 


 
 
 Nicholas de Nugun of the same honor . 


 
 
 Richard de Wyavill same honor . 


 43 


 
 
 In this feodary of 1242-3 it will be noticed that 51 fees , out of the total of something less than 67 fees , were held by 5 persons . Consequently these 5 tenants of the honor were mesne tenants between the earl and a great number of under - tenants , whose names are found in the Testa and Feudal Aids without definite description to show of what mesne lord they respectively held . Three special instances of this ambiguity are found in the holdings . of the Waunci family , the lords of Gressenhall , and the Mortemers . of Attleborough . Between them these 3 houses held about 18 fees . Yet in no instance is the particular disclosed as to which of the 5 great tenants who held immediately of the honor were superior lords of these three tenants . Another unsatisfactory feature is that hardly any of the fees held in Essex can be definitely traced . prior to 1324 . 


 
 
 The assignment of the service of certain knights who held of the honor late of the earl Warenne , made to the countess Matilda by letters close dated 14 August , 1240 , throws some light on the tenure and locale of certain fees . It was as follows : 


 
 
 55 


 
 
 The service of Hugh Gargate in Warwickshire . 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 223 


 
 
 33 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 39 


 
 
 رو 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 * 


 
 
 &gt;&gt; 


 
 
 33 


 
 
 knight's fee in Herst of the same 


 knight's fee in [ Wickham , n . 18 ] 


 knight's fee in Blechinton of the 


 
 
 ور 


 
 
 " " 


 
 
 Ralph de Wauncy of 8 fees in Norfolk . Geoffrey de Glanvill of 1 fee in Norfolk . Peter de Kenet of 4 fees in Norfolk . Adam de Kaylli of 4 fees in Norfolk . those who held 5 fees of the land of Burne ham , Norfolk . 


 
 
 those who held 6 fees of ' assart ' land , 44 i.e. in Rodings in Essex . 


 Roger de Colevill of 1 fee in Cambridgeshire.45 


 
 
 No inquest post mortem was taken after the death of earl William in 1240 , nor after the death of earl John in 1305 ; but that taken after the death of earl John in 1347 states that appurtenant to the manor of Gimingham , Norf . , there were 203 and knights ' fees in 37 46 places ( named ) . The castle and manors of Conisborough , Yorks . , and the castle and manor of Sandal with Wakefield , Yorks . , were held of the crown by the service of 2 knights ' fees.47 


 
 
 With the exception of Reigate 48 and its members , which were surveyed in Domesday Book under ' Terra Regis , ' and the greater part of the fee of Mortemer of Attleborough , all the lands held of the honor of Warenne by knight's service had formed part of the Domesday fee of William de Warenne , as surveyed in that survey , where they extended into a dozen counties . 


 In 1307 the king pardoned to John de Warenne , earl of Surrey , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 323] ===
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 307 


 
 
 debts amounting to £ 6693 , due from him and his late father , excepting the farm of the castle of Bamburgh ; among the 35 items were 6800 marks , remainder of a fine of 10,000 marks for trespass , £ 120 for the scutage of Wales in the 5th year of Edward I and a like sum for the scutage of Wales in the 10th year , three items of 10 , 100 , and 30 marks respectively for trespass of venison , and a prest of the wardrobe of £ 303 in the 26th year.49 


 A feodary of the knights who held of Aymer de Valence , earl of Pembroke , at his death on 23 June , 1324 , is preserved in the inquest taken after his death , 50 and shews that about 108 knights ' fees lying in 6 counties were held of him as pertaining to his castle of Castleacre , Norfolk . They were , in fact , knights ' fees held of the honor of Warenne . As the knights ' fees in Sussex , Yorkshire and Lincolnshire , and some other counties were not included we have evidence that the total servitium of the honor of Lewes at this time amounted to about 140 knights ' fees . 


 In 1316 John de Warenne surrendered to the king ( who re granted to him for life ) the following manors : Conisborough and Sandal with the castles , Wakefield , Thorne , Hatfield , Sowerby , Braithwell , Fishlake , Dewsbury and Halifax , Yorks .; Stamford and Grantham , Lincs .; Reigate with the castle , Dorking and Betchworth , Surrey ; Lewes with the castle , Cockfield , Clayton , Ditchling , Matching in Newhaven , Patcham , Brighton , Houndean , Northcase , Rodmill , Keymer , Middleton , Allington , Worth , Piecomb and the towns of Iford , Piddinghoe and Seaford , Suss . , and Kennington manor , Surrey . 51 The king's regrant was to John de Warenne for life , with remainder to Matilda de Neireford for life as to the Yorkshire estates only , and to John de Warenne , son of Matilda de Neirford , in tail male and , failing such issue , to Thomas de Warenne , son of the said Matilda ; excepting the manor of Kennington , which the king retained , and the manors of Stamford and Grantham , the reversion of which was to the king at John's death.52 


 
 
 By a subsequent settlement , made in 1326 , the earl having released to the king the premises in Yorkshire and Lincolnshire , obtained a grant of the premises in Surrey and Sussex , with certain estates in Wales to him and Joan his wife in tail male , with remainder to Edmund earl of Arundel , Alice his wife ( only sister of earl John ) , and Richard their son in tail.5 53 John de Warenne , earl of Surrey and Sussex , died 30 June , 1347 , holding the castle and town of Lewes with the members jointly with Joan his wife by the gift of Edward II to them and the heirs male of the earl's body , with successive remainders to Edmund earl of Arundel and Alesia his wife , and to Richard son of the said earl of Arundel and Isabel his wife and the heirs of their bodies , held of the king as parcel of the earldom of Surrey ; Joan had crossed the seas a year or more before and her death was suspected ; the said Edmund and Alesia were dead ; Richard earl of Arundel , aged 30 and more , was his heir of blood.54 The castle and town of Reigate and the manors of Dorking and Betchworth , of which the earl died seised , were also described as parcel of the earldom of Surrey . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 324] ===
 
 
 308 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 The castle and lordship of Castleacre descended in like manner to Lewes , as also did the castles and manors of Sandal and Conis borough , Yorks . , with the town of Wakefield and the other members , held of the king for 2 knights ' fees.55 


 An outstanding feature of this honor was its vast area in relation to the knights ' service due from it . This resulted in the granting away of a large area of the honor to be held in socage and at fee farm . This especially applies to the lands in Sussex and Yorkshire . Obviously therefore the feudal history of this honor covers only a limited area of the whole , and can only deal with a restricted number of the tenants of the honor . 


 
 
 1. Gesta Herewardi ( Rolls Ser . ) , 369 , 374. 2. Stapleton in Arch . Journ . iii . 16 ; Blaauw , Archaeologia , xxxii . 117 ; Chester Waters , Gundreda de Warrenne ; Freeman , Eng . Hist . Rev. iii . 680. 3. Orderic , bk . iv . c . 12 ; Bk . of Hyde ( Rolls Ser . ) , 296. 4. Mon. Angl . v . 12 ; Duckett , Ch . of Cluni , 


 5. Vesp . F. iii . f . 1 ; printed in Mon. Angl . Lower , in Journ . of Brit . Arch . Assoc . i . 347 . 9. Hist . Eliensis , 255. 10. Ann . Monast . 


 i . 47 ( an inspeximus of 1417 ) . 6. Mon. Angl . v . 12. 7 . 8. Gough , Sepul . Mon. i . 1 , 9 . iii . 429 . 11. Cf. Notes and Quer . 13 S. i . 403-6 ; The Genealogist , N.S. x , 2-3 . 12. Anct . Chs . ( P.R.S. x . ) , 5 . 13. Ibid . 7. Cf. V. C. H. Suss . i . 436 . 14. Chartul . Harl . 2110 , f . 3. 15. Ibid . v . 50b . 18. Abbrev . Placit . 77b . 


 16. Ibid . 17. Mon. Angl . 19. Cat . of Anct . D. v . A. 10988 . 


 Lit. Pat . 29 . m . 3d . 


 20. Mon. Angl . vi . 1113. 21. Round , Cal . of Docs . France , n . 220. 22. Ibid . n . 634. 23. Pipe R. 31 Hen . I , pass . 24. Cotton ch . xi . 56 ; Brit . Mus . Facsimiles , n . 25. 25. Cat . of Anct . D. ii . A. 2998 . 26. Mon. Angl . vi . 729. 27. G. W. Watson , Genealogist , N.S. xi . 132. 28. Cot . MS . Nero C. iii . f . 190 ; Brit . Mus . Facsimiles , n . 31 . 29. Pipe R. 10 Hen . II , 20. 30. Ibid . II Hen . II , 92. 31. Dom . Bk . ii . f . 165b . 32. V.C.H. Norf . ii . 189b . 33. Pipe R. 18 Hen . II , 132. 34. Ibid . 23 Hen . II , pass . 35. Ibid . 31 Hen . II , 212. 36. Op . cit . i . facsimile and pp . 167-8 . 37. R. 38. Ibid . Iob . 39. R. Chart , 21b . 40. Pipe R. 8 Joh . 41. Under Kaveresfeud ( 870 ) fee is wrongly assigned to the fee of ' Warewyk . ' 42. Cat . of Pat . R. 1317-21 , p . 263. 43. Bk . of Fees , 690-91 . For Nicholas de Nugun , see Blomefield's Norf . ii . 202 ( Toftrees ) . 44. ´de terra de assarto , ' by which one of the Rodings is probably 45. Close Rolls , 1237-42 , p . 214 . 46. All but the first three places ( Hunton , Fyngham and Feltewell ) correspond with the thirty - four last named places in the schedule of 1319 named above . 47. Cal . of Inquis . ix . 46-8 . 48. A.D. 1212 : Comes Warennae tenet Reygate in capite de domino Rege in baronia sua de conquestu Anglie ' ; Bk . of Fees , 69. 49. Cal . Pat . R. 496-7 . 50. Cal . Inquis . vi . 330-1 , 334-5 . 51. Cal . Pat . R. 483-5 . 52. Ibid . 528-9 . 53. Ibid . 271 . 54. Cal . Inquis . ix . 45 . 55. Ibid . 43-53 . 


 meant . 


 
 
 ་ 


 
 
 C 


 
 
 ABSTRACT OF THE CONFIRMATION BY WILLIAM DE WARENNE II , EARL OF SURREY , TO THE THE MONASTERY AND MONKS OF ST . PANCRAS AT LEWES . 


 
 
 ( Chartulary , Vesp . F. XV , f . 12d . Words in parentheses , other than italics , are from the confirmation of Ralph archbishop of Canterbury to Lewes Priory , dated 1121 ; Anct . Charters ( Pipe Roll Soc . ) , x . n . 8. ) 


 
 
 I William de Warenne , earl of Surrey , when I had first come into England after my father's death , confirmed to the monastery of St. Pancras , which my father and Gundreda my mother had founded below the castle of Lewes , all the gifts which my father had made while my mother was living and assenting , with the 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 325] ===
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 309 


 
 
 consent of myself and Reginald my brother , in lands , churches and tithes , etc. , namely : 


 The hall ( mansio ) named Falmer and all that my father had held there in demesne with a hide which Eustace had held in Bolmer ( Falemera with the church and Burgamera with the chapel ) with 2 hides which belonged to Plumpton ; the hall ( mansio ) named . Carlton which queen Matilda gave to my mother Gundreda ( in Ely diocese Carlent ona and Wilingeam with the churches ) ; in Swamborough 5 hides and the holme ( insula ) by the monastery with the mill ( land called Swanberga with the chapel ) ; in Thorney ( in Tuniaco ) land which was Norman's , a yardland called ' Redrewell , ' and another called Stanford ( land in Thornh [ ei ] ) ; in Withdean 2 hides with 4 villeins and a meadow ( property in Wistendena ) ; all tithes of any land which Richoard the priest still holds in Surrey and Norfolk and is to hold for his life as my father appointed ; all the tithes that my men gave in my father's time or shall give in mine or after ; [ West ] Walton within the marshes of Lynn ( half of Walton with half the church ) ; the soc of Walpole , ' Kenewic ' and Brunswen ( half Walpole with half the church and a moiety of the mills of the same soc ) ; a third part of Anmer , with the fisheries of Well , and whatever my mother used to hold of my father between the two waters , reserving only two lodgings ( hospicia ) yearly in lieu of the services of the men of the marshes ( half Ammera , with half the church and land in Terrington ( Terinton ) and the land of Congham ( Cungheam ) for which Azor renders 3 marks ; in Welle 40 shillings ) ; the hall ( mansio ) of Heacham which my father gave them after my mother's death , in the absence of me and my brother Reginald , as my father directed at his death ( Herceam with the church and what belongs to it and to the manor ) ; I have confirmed the said manor with the land of Pain the reeve and whatever William de Kaili and other free men held of me , paying rent to the said Pain , and this I have done with the advice of my barons and men , because my father at his death gave all the moveables of his land to the monks and they have released their claim lest all my land should be destroyed . Moreover I have granted and confirmed the church of Clayton with tithes and I hide and tithes of all things at Middleton and Allington ( the church of Claeton and land in Alincton ) ; the tithe of Caterham , Fetcham , Northease [ in Swanborough hund . ] , Rodmell , Meeching , Pyecombe , Sneteholt , " Sand and Cuckfield ( the chapels of Redmell and Northese , 2 mills at Meeching with the church , the church of Cuckfield ) ; the church of Rottingdean , the church of St. Olaf at Southwark , the church of [ High ] Roding with a virgate and tithe of all things of the demesne of the hall ( the church of Rotingesdene , the church of Suthwerc ) ; tithe of West Tofts ( Surretot vel Scuretot ) and South Creake , all which my father gave before his death . 


 
 
 I have confirmed all that my father granted of the gifts of his barons and other free men and all gifts of my fee made in my time with my consent : namely the church of Ïford given by Hugh son of Golde ; in Swanborough 2 hides given by Tusard and 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 326] ===
 
 
 310 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 1 


 I hide given by Bristelm and I hide given by Ormar , when they were made monks ; 2 fields by St. Pancras and a garden given by Warin the sheriff and all his tithe of Kingston ( by Lewes -- land in Chingeston ) ; 20 denariates of land at Binham given by Ralph son of Warin ; tithe of Hugh son of Golde in Iford ; in Kingston the tithe of 2 hides and tithe of land which he used to have in Rottingdean ; 2 hospites ' by the mill of Lewes and near the same a meadow ; a mill and 4 acres given by Peter the sheriff at Meeching ; tithe given by William de Herbethinges of all he had at Harebeating and Herst ( ? ) ( land at Herbertinges ) ; a yardland and pasture for 100 sheep given by William son of William and his mother for the soul of his father ( 18 acres with pasture of 100 sheep in Orthlaueswic , hodie Orleswick ) ; tithe of Halcombe given by Norman the hunter and a hall ( mansio ) in Lewes ; at Halcombe tithe of 2 hides given by Joslain the constable ; tithe of all things given by Nigel at Orleswick by my father's consent ; land and pasture for 100 sheep given by Ralph son of Nigel and his wife after his death by my leave , his tithe in Hangelton and a hide given by the said Nigel in Wooton ; tithe of 1 hide given by Godard at Orleswick ; land and pasture for 20 sheep and tithe of Balsdean given by Hugh son of Hugh ; I hide given by William de Petroponte in Rottingdean ; hide in Brighton given by Wiard with tithes of his demesne there and at Ratton ; I hide at Aldrington ( land of Aldrin chton ) given by Ralph de Chesney ; tithe of all things in Hangelton given by the same Ralph , which I confirmed after that land returned to me ; of the gift of Richoard the arch deacon I hide at Blatchington , I hide at Kingsford , I hide at Moulscombe and 4 hides in Withdean ( Molescumba , a possession in Wistendena , land in Blacincton with the chapel ) ; I yardland in ' Pincheham ' which Wulnod held and in Sharnwick 20 denariates of land ; all which I confirmed . Two hides at Pachelesway given by Hugh son of Hugh son of Golde ( land which is called Piceleswia ) ; at Pangdean tithe of the gift and demesne of Rainald son of Renner [ son of ] Reidi ; tithe of Saddlescombe given by Hugh son of Ralph ; tithe of corn in ' Wildecumb ' given by Walter ; at Patching the tithe of William son of Techelin and of William son of Alsinene ; at Fulking the tithe of Godfrey de Bello Monte ; at ' Panethorne ' the tithe of Levenod ; at Twineham ( Twienen ) a yardland given by Gilbert son of Gozo ; tithe of the hall given by Scotland ; tithe of Aubrey and tithe of Alvred the earl's foster brother ( ? nutricius ) ; tithe of Slaugham given by Hugh son of Golde ; at Herst tithe given by Iron Eye ( oculus ferreus ) ; two thirds of the tithe of Plumpton , all the tithe of Standean and I hide at Falmer given by Fredesend daughter of Hugh son of Renner ( Rain ' ) for her father's soul ; at the other Standean my father gave them the tithe of all things ; at Allington tithe of I hide given by Basilea mother of Ralph son of Hugh , and I hide in Allington given by Ralph de Chesney . 


 I have confirmed the church of Canfield [ Essex ] with 1 virgate and the tithe of the demesne of the hall , tithe of Easton and at Yeldham tithe of Godwin's land ( at Estun a carucate of land and 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 327] ===
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 311 


 
 
 a rustic , at each Canefeld and at Essendon the churches with land ) ; tithe of Middleton given by William son of Ranulf and 1 yardland which Gladio joculator held by gift of Ran ' [ ? Rainald ] de Warenné . 


 I have also granted a third part of Heacham ( Hichebourne , sic ) , half the mill and all the church , all being the inheritance of Raginild wife of Roger Talun which she and the said Roger gave to the monks ; at Caston 10s . 8d . rent of the sochmen which Hugh de Greinusevill gave ( land in Catestun ) ; the churches of Shereford and Tofts with land and tithes given by Hugh son of Hugh . 


 In addition I have given the land of Southover with 2 pools , the mills and a marlery outside the vill ( the said monastery has in the bishopric of Chichester land called Southover with the borough , 2 pools and 3 mills with a holme next the monastery ) ; 2 acres of land in Newick ; land in ' Craudon ' which Hugelin held and Wlwin son of Golle and the burgesses of Lewes ; I hide held by Ailwin de Wincestria in Kingston ( by Lewes ) and hide in Withdean , in exchange for the house of David de London which I had previously given , I virgate for my mother's soul and 2 hides . for part of my father's property ( pecunia ) . I have also given . the wood of Caneregge ' between the bridges of Beuehorne and Godeswisel and 16 denariates of land which Wlsi de Chagele held ; at Balmer 2 hides which Gozo my foster - brother held and his house in Lewes ; also tithe of my rents in Lewes and land in London which Herebran [ d ] held ; all the churches in Lewes which Richoard the priest still holds , after his death , namely St. John's , St. Peter's , St. Andrew's , St. Mary's , St. Martin's ; also the churches of St. Nicholas and Holy Trinity which Bristelin the priest holds ; and the churches of St. Peter and St. Mary of Westout and the church of Kingston with 1 acre on which the church stands ( in the castle placed nigh the monastery these churches and chapels , namely St. John's , St. Peter's , Holy Trinity , St. Nicholas , St. Andrew , St. Mary , St. Martin , St. Mary of Westota , whereof it shall freely and quietly possess that called St. John's with the chapel set in the cemetery of St. Pancras of the gift of our venerable brother Ralph bishop of Chichester ) ; the church of Rodmell and Meeching , the church of Patcham , the church of Cuckfield and of Ardingly and the church of Ditchling with I hide etc. ( land in Dicelinges with the church and 2 chapels ; the church of Herding helei ) ; and 2 hides there ( in Ditchling ) for Rainald my brother at his request . 


 
 
 The church of St. Peter of Thetford and 4 solidates of land in the acres of Thetford which lie to the church of St. Helen and St. Helen's church ( at Thetford 2 chapels and land in Santon and the church of St. Helen with land ) ; also Santon and 6 solidates of land at Wilton with the church of Wilton and the church of Feltwell and 3 solidates of land which Gilbert held , and 2 solidates which Sculla held , and in Didlington 10 solidates which Richoard holds ( in Dodilendtun 10 solidates of land ; half the church in Falwella ) ; in Caston the land of Ulf brother of Offord and the church of Gimmingham with tithes and 20s . [ vel 40s . ] from the sochmen ( in Gemingheam 40 solidates of land ; the churches of Wilton and 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 328] ===
 
 
 312 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 Gemingheam ) ; at Gayton 8 solidates of land and tithe of Roger Paveili ; at Acre a mill which renders 30s . 


 
 
 I have also given the land of ' Belvidere ' with the men , wood and mill ( the land also of Bradeherst and of Ulfeole and of Belvidere with the chapels ) . 


 
 
 In Yorkshire I have given the church of Conisborough with other churches , land & c . pertaining and the churches of Wakefield ; as these were in my father's free gift and mine I give them to the monks ( in the archbishopric of York the churches of Wakefield and Conisborough and whatever belongs thereunto ) . 


 Shortly afterwards , when the church of St. Pancras was completed , I was invited by prior Lanzo and the brethren to cause it to be dedicated ; this I gladly did , calling in the bishops Ralph ( of Chichester ) , also Walkelin of Winchester and Gundulf of Rochester to the dedication . Then at the mass the bishops sum moned me to endow the church , as I had promised . Considering that the gift of Heacham was not my pure alms , my father having already given it , and that I desired to retain St. Pancras as my patron and the caput of my honor , I resolved to make an additional gift and so gave tithes of all my lands and rents in England , so that as my revenues grow so may the monks ' tithes increase . 


 At this point probably the earl's charter ended . The following appear to be later additions . 


 
 
 And he gave his blessing to those who maintained this alms and his curse to those who acted contrary , the bishops concurring . 


 On that same day Ralph de Chesney offered on the altar the church of Brighton and tithes there and the churches of Balcombe , Hoathley , Keymer with a virgate and Barcombe ( land in Bristel mestun with the church , that of Chimela and of Balecumba and of Hadlega and of Bercham ) , tithes and mill of ' Gardesey , ' a meadow at Hamsey and the houses of Wlnod the clothier in Lewes and I hide at Allington ; Ralph the younger , son of Ralph , gave 1 hide at Offham by leave of his father ; Walter de Grancurt offered the church of Willingham with 1 virgate and 2 hides and 7 acres in the same town , and the church of St. Mary and St. Peter of Burnham and the church of Harpley ( the churches of Bruneam and Herpelai ) . I gladly confirmed these gifts . 


 I will acquit the monks of danegeld etc. and king's dues imposed on these lands ; the monks to have amends of their men . He gives the whole market of trunks for their ' lignarium ' for 3 days a week so long as the carrying shall last ; also rights of hunting and fishing . 


 
 
 This grant and confirmation he offered on the altar , Raynold his brother joining in the act . They were received into confra ternity . The blessing and curse recited . 


 
 
 Further the good design which his father and mother had of making a monastery at Acre he undertook to do and make perfect by the advice of prior Lanzo , being specially desired by the countess Isabel his wife , who had set her heart on that place . He adds 50s . a year to his father's gift of 50s . a year to Cluni . All the bishops and barons present subscribed this . The signa of the company , fixing 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 329] ===
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 313 


 
 
 the date between 1091 and 1097 , are recorded in an Inspeximus of 31 May , 1331 , at f . 38 ; and in another of 2 Nov. , 21 Ric . II , 1397 , at f . 42 : William + earl , Ralph + bishop , Walkelin + bishop , Gundulf + bishop , Rainald + brother of the earl , Ralph de Chesney + , Walter de Grancurt + , Ralph + son of Ralph , Roger + de Clara , Warin the sheriff + , Joslain + the constable , Hugh son of Hugh + , Nigel + , Geoffrey the chaplain + , Ralph the priest + . 


 The confirmation of 1121 names these additional gifts : Land in Horsted ( -Keynes ) with the chapel , Langney ( in Westham ) and Eckington ( Achinctona ' ) with the spring - head ( galetum ) and chapel and land in ' Dedincton ' ; tithe of Preston ; the churches of Grinstead , Hangelton , Peeling , Newick , Waldron , Burpham , Great ham , Hellingley , Sutton , Lavant , Stoughton , Merton and Tangmere ; at Graffham tithe of the land of Roger de Chesney and a virgate with a rustic ; at Bramber 4 salterns given by Philip de Braiose and I saltern given by Ralph de Grenestede ; the church of Compton with the things which Roger de St. John gave there . 


 At London half the chapel of St. Botolf , houses and land with the same liberty that our lord king Henry gave there to St. Pancras ; at Ashdon of Geoffrey Bainard 44 acres of land , 3 of meadow and 10 of wood , an oak tree and feeding of 10 sheep ; at Stratford a lodging or hall ( mansio ) of the gift of our reverend father Richard bishop of London ; at Prittlewell the monastery of St. Mary and whatever Robert son of Swen gave there to the Cluniac monks under St. Pancras ; at Stanesgate the monastery of St. Mary Magdalene with all that Ralph son of Brien gave to St. Pancras by the hand of our lord Henry king of the English ; at Ashdon churches with land . 


 In the bishopric of Winchester ( the monastery ) has the church of Gatton and what Herfred gave there and in the same place virgate given by Odo de Donmartin . 


 In the bishopric of Salisbury it has the church of Winterbourne ( Basset ) and that of Bishopstrow ; at Mappowder I hide by the hand of Ranulf the chancellor and in Melbury 1 hide . 


 In the bishopric of Exeter it has the churches of Berry Herbert ( ' Hertesbirie ' ) , High Bray , Bediston and Bridge . 


 In the bishopric of Lincoln it has the churches of Foxton and Melton ( Mowbray ) with lands . 


 In the bishopric of Norwich the monastery of St. Mary of Acre and whatever William de Warrenne and other faithful men gave there to the Cluniac monks ; the land of Wood Rising with the church ; in Merton 60 acres of land ; in Miseburne ' 12 solidates of land ; the church of Merton ; that of Ickborough ( ? Nicheburna ' ) , a church and a half in Riston , and one in Old Lynn . 


 The archbishop himself gave to the monastery a hall ( mansio ) in ' Careslei ' and the church of Burstow , Surr , 


 
 
 I. 


 C 


 In Sussex in 1086 Ralph ( de Chesney ) held of William de Warenne in Hamsey ( formerly Hammes Say ' ) 13 hides , Allington 6 hides , Street 8 hides , Brighton 51 hides , Saddlescombe 17 hides 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 330] ===
 
 
 314 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 and Newtimber 10 hides ; of the said Ralph in Hamsey Hugh held I hide and Ralph hide ; in Allington Warin held 1 hide and Osmund I hide ; in Street Ralph held 1 hide and in Saddlescombe Ralph held 4 hides . 


 
 
 In Norfolk Ralph ( de Chesney ) held of William de Warenne in Stinton 3 carucates and 80 acres ( n . 48 ) , Kerdiston 2 carucates and 75 acres , Marham carucate , Gayton I carucate , Rudham 3 carucates with berewicks in Rudham 1 carucate , Houghton 


 2 


 Matilda . 


 Ralph de Chesney 1086 


 
 
 ITI Robert 


 
 
 Drew 


 John , s.p. 


 
 
 Hugh de Perieres d . 1175 . 


 
 
 Ralph de C. Emma 


 
 
 d 


 
 
 John de C. I 147 


 
 
 ( 1 ) Alice 


 de Chesney d.ante1 199 . 


 
 
 Alice de Suthsex 


 
 
 = 


 
 
 = 


 
 
 Sibyl 


 
 
 Emma Michael Belet 


 
 
 John 


 [ de Clavering ] . 


 
 
 Michael , Hervey , Annora , & c . 


 
 
 ( 2 ) Geoffrey , son of Wil liam de Say , d . 1214 . 


 
 
 Geoffrey de Say , William . Robert ( 2 ) d . 1230 . 


 Fitz Roger 


 ↑ 


 
 
 = 


 
 
 = 


 
 
 Sybil 


 
 
 = 


 
 
 Roger John Fitz Robert the Sheriff , 


 s.p. 


 
 
 William de C. 1146 


 
 
 Robert Fitz - Walter founder of Horsham . 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 William de Chesney 


 ( had Markham ) founder of Sibton . 


 
 
 = 


 
 
 
 
 Margaret Clemency 


 Sarra = ( Margery ) ( 1 ) Gurnay Richard = ( 1 ) Hugh de ( 2 ) Jordan de Creissi Saukevill ( ? ) s.p. 


 Engaine . 


 
 
 Roger de Creissi 


 ( see Gifford , n . 15 ) . 


 个 


 
 
 Vitalis Engaine . 


 ↑ 


 
 
 30 acres , Barmer 60 acres , Syderstone 40 acres , and Helhoughton 12 acres ; Thorpe Market 2 carucates and 32 acres . 


 I 


 Ralph de Chesney I ( de Caisneto vel de Querceto ) gave to the priory of Lewes for the soul of Matilda his wife 1 hide in Allington ; Ralph de Chesney II ( his son ) gave for the soul of Emma his wife . the church of Brighton and 1 hide in Gardesei.¹ A later confirma tion recites the gifts made by Ralph de Chesney I as the churches of Brighton ( with the tithe ) , Balcombe , Hoathley , Keynor ( with a virgate of land and tithe ) , and Barcombe ( with tithes ) , the mill of Gardesei , a meadow in Hamsey , houses in the borough of 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 331] ===
 
 
 HAMSEY , SADDLESCOMBE , STINTON 315 


 
 
 Lewes and I hide at Allington ; of the gift of Ralph the younger , son of the said Ralph , a hide at Wogham by consent of his father.² A charter of William de Warenne , comes Sudreie , ' refers to the bridge of Hamwde ' of Ralph de Querceto.3 Hugh son of Ralph gave tithe of Saddlescombe to Lewes , and Basilia mother of Ralph son of Hugh gave the tithe of I hide in Allington.4 


 Ι 


 The following early charters relate to the Chesney fee : 


 
 
 John de Chesney gave to Lewes a moiety of the land which his father Ralph had in Brighton ( Bristelmestona ) on the day when he was alive and dead , with the men thereon ( named ) ; for this the monks gave him 100 marks for his relief towards the earl of Warenne , his lord . Witnesses : Roger the chaplain , Hugh de Petroponte , Robert de Wasneval , Robert de Petroponte , Robert de Frievill , Robert his ( the grantor's ) son and Drew his ( Robert's ) brother , Guy the sheriff , William his son , William de Petroponte , William the constable , Peter Lovell , Roger de Clere , Edwin priest of Hammes , Roger de St. Victor , Robert brother of John , Ralph de Mundisdier.5 


 Agreement between the monks of Lewes and John de Chesney ( de Chaisneto ) about the other moiety of the said land , namely that it was to be held by the monks for 7 years ; the stock being recited . Done on St. Mark's Day , 1147 . Witnesses : Hugh de Perrepount , Robert de Frievill , Ralph de Pleiz , Drew de Frievill , William de Perepount , Guy de Mercecurt , William his son , Edwin the priest of Hammes , Robert de Chesney , Roger de St. Victor , Ralph de Muntisdier . " William earl of Warenne confirmed John de Chesney's 


 
 
 gift.7 


 King Stephen confirmed the gifts of earl William , including the moiety of the land which had belonged to John de Chesney.8 


 
 
 During the period 1146-7 John de Chesney gave to his nascent foundation of Rudham , Norf . , which was later removed to Coxford by Rudham , the 2 churches of Rudham and land which Ralph de Chesney his grandfather and William de Chesnev his uncle and the grantor had given ; also the mill and stew of Coxford , land in Coxford ( Tocheswd ) , Marham , the mill of Torp ' with the stew ; these he gave for the souls of his said grandfather and uncle , Roger ( de Chesney ) , their sisters and Waleran de Rochesford , and for his own soul and those of his brothers and sisters ; among the witnesses were : Sibyl his wife , Peter de Chesney and Matthew his brother . The donor's charter was renewed before William bishop of Norwich on the eve of the Ascension , being St. Dunstan's day ( 1147 ) . William de Chesney , the uncle named , had confirmed the mill of Thorp Market in a charter addressed to the same bishop.⁹a The gift must have been made somewhat earlier , as William earl of Warenne sanctioned it in a charter addressed to bishop Everard , who died in 1145. 9b 


 9 


 
 
 It is not improbable that the demise of John de Chesney of a moiety of his land in Brighton in 1146 was effected in order to raise money for the crusade in which the earl of Warenne and his 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 332] ===
 
 
 316 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 half - brother Waleran count of Meulan took part , the former being slain in the defiles of Laodicea on 19 January , 1148.10 John de Chesney also gave to Lewes priory land at Brighton and near Hamsey , and his part of land in Erdlaveswyke . 11 


 The chronicle of the abbey of Sibton , Suff . , gives the following descent of this fee : 


 
 
 Dame Sibyl , sister of John de Chesney and daughter of Ralph de Chesney who came at the conquest of England ( sic ) , was married to Robert Fitz - Walter , founder of the house of St. Faith of Horsham , who begat of her a son named Roger and John the sheriff and William de Chesney the founder of Sibton abbey ; Roger and John the sheriff died without issue ; William took a wife and begat of her three daughters , Margaret , Clemency and Sarra , of whom the last two died without issue ; Margaret married a certain Norman , named Hugh de Cressi , who begat of her a son named Roger etc .; the said Margaret after her first husband's death married Robert Fitz - Roger ( de Clavering ) , who begat of her a son named John & c.12 


 
 
 The chartulary of Coxford , according to Dugdale's notes , 13 gives a different account , thus : 


 
 
 Ralph de Kayneto came with William the bastard at the Conquest . He had two sons - Ralph II and William , of whom the former ( Ralph ) had a son John and a daughter Sibyl , and the latter ( William ) had a daughter Margaret , mother of Roger de Cressi and ( by a second husband Robert , son of Roger ) of John son of Robert . [ This confuses William , son of Sibyl , with her uncle , William de Chesney . The latter , however , is said to have lived in the time of Stephen . ] Ralph II had also illegitimate offspring - Matthew de Kayneto , first prior of Cox ford , Robert de Kayneto ( father of Ralph ) , Bartholomew de Crek , knt . , and William de Torcy ( father of Levina , wife of William de Eskirmesur ) . 


 
 
 John de Kayneto ( son of Ralph II ) had a son John , who died without issue , and three daughters ; of the eldest of these came William de Say , of the second came dame Alice de Suthsex , and the third was Emma de Kayneto , wife of Michael Belet of Wroxton . 


 
 
 The descents recorded in these chartularies cannot be wholly accepted . 


 
 
 Robert Fitz - Walter and Sibyl de Chesney his wife ( sister of John ) founded Horsham priory in the time of Stephen or possibly in the last years of Henry I ; Sibyl gave of her inheritance her land of Rudham.14 Their third son and ultimate heir , William de Chesney , otherwise William son of Robert Fitz - Walter , founded in 1149 the Cistercian abbey of Sibton for the soul of his wife Gille.15 The gift of Sibton was confirmed by king Stephen when at St. Edmunds Bury.16 


 William de Chesney was pardoned £ 5 12s . 10d . of the assize of 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 333] ===
 
 
 HAMSEY , SADDLESCOMBE , STINTON 317 


 
 
 ( 


 In 


 23 


 Norfolk ( 200 marks ) in 1156 , and William de Say was similarly pardoned 15s .; in Suffolk Chesney was pardoned 36s . 4d . of the past danegeld.17 He was sheriff of Norfolk and Suffolk from Easter 1157 until Michaelmas 1163. In 1161 he owed in Norfolk £ 200 of an amercement ; since 1157 he had enjoyed a grant of 13 librates of land in Blyborough and 6 solidates of the rent of a sochman in Loingeland . 18 In 1164 he was debtor to the crown for over £ 319 of the old farm of Norfolk , £ 150 of increment for 3 years , and he owed 74s . 6d . for a murder fine on Clackclose hundred , 19 in which Marham lies . In 1165 he owed £ 15 5s . for the army of Wales , William de Wurmegai owing a like amount.20 In the ensuing year he was described as William de Norwich , when his men and those of the abbot of Holme owed 5 marks of a duel fine.21 1166 William de Chesney of Norwich held of Roger de Keneteswell I fee , 22 of the honor of St. Edmund I fee and of the honor of Clare I fee.2 William de Kaysneto and Albreda his wife gave land to Lewes priory for service at St. James's altar for the soul of John de Puninges ; Philip de Kaysneto and Adam de Punings were among the witnesses.24 He and Reginald de Warenne of Wormegay accompanied Henry's daughter Matilda to Saxony in 1167 , wherefore Chesney had respite respecting his debts , 25 for which Isaac the Jew was answering in the following year . In 1170 Ralph de Camera and Alfwin de Melliers accounted for 20s . for a disseisin made after an assize in Sussex , but the debt was pardoned to William de Chesney.26 In 1172 he was liquidating his debt of £ 200 for an amercement under the account of Orford , Suff.27 Two years later the roll recites the balance of his debt and adds : but he is dead and Hugh de Creissi has ( his ) land by the king . ' 28 In the following year Hugh de Creissi duly appears as tenant of 13 librates of land in Blyborough and as answerable for Chesney's debt , 29 of which he was later pardoned the balance still due . That year he was a justice in eyre in many counties . For some account of him and his descendants see Giffard , n . 45 . 


 
 
 It appears that William de Chesney left three daughters , as stated by the Chronicle of Sibton , but at least two of them left issue . Margaret ( Margery ) had issue by Hugh de Creissi a son Roger ; Clemency seems to have married a Gurnay , and then Jordan de Saukevill ; Sarra married Richard Engayne , son of Richard ( ? ) Engayne by Margaret his wife , daughter of Richard Fitz - Urse and in 1185 wife of Geoffrey le Breton.30 Margaret had the lands of this fee in Norfolk and Sarra had those of the honor of Boulogne ( ? ) in Essex and other estates . This appears from a claim by Vital Engayne , son of the above Richard and Sarra , to a third part of 2 carucates of land in Blythborough and Walberswick held by Margaret de Cressy , one of the three daughters and coheirs of William de Chesney . The defendant said that Sarra had released all claim to her father's land in the presence of Henry II , whose notification she produced , stating that Sarra had agreed with Hugh de Cressy and Margery his wife to accept Colum and Serdesley as her share of the father's lands and to release her claim to the rest . Should either of the sisters die without issue , the other's claim to the 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 334] ===
 
 
 318 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 inheritance would revive . Sarra and her heirs were to do the service for Colum by Margaret's husband or her heirs . Vital said this charter was made while his mother was in the king's custody and under age ; the king married her to his father , giving him Colum , so that Sarra was never put in seisin as she should have been . Margaret replied that Sarra was of age at the time . The decision of the case was deferred until the king should come of age.³¹ 


 In 1214 Clemency de Gerney by Jordan de Sackevill her husband had a plea with her sister Margery ; 32 and in 1218 Margery de Chesney agreed with Jordan de Saukvill and Clemency his wife as to the latter's share of her father William de Chesney's lands ; she gave the manor of Ho for Clemency's life , and 100s . rent also the manors of Marlsford and Helmington , Jordan and Clemency releasing all further claim on the father's lands in England . Vital Engain put in his claim.33 


 
 
 Margaret de Chesney gave to the nuns of Carrow the entire vill of Wroxham , Norf . , and king John confirmed the gift at Chinon , 17 January , 1202.34 


 
 
 The Chronicle of Sibton omits mention of Sarra and her issue ; and worse still , it does not mention the heir who succeeded to the Sussex portion of this fee . This was Alice daughter ( ? ) and heir of John de Chesney , who married first Hugh de Periers , who died at the end of 1175,35 and secondly Geoffrey de Say , son of William de Say . In 1180 Geoffrey and Alice , holding the manor of Ditton Priors , Salop , in dower by the endowment of Hugh de Periers to the said Alice , delivered it to the prior of Wenlock charged with an annuity to Alice.36 Geoffrey de Say , with the consent of Alice his wife and William his son and heir , and for the health of his lord Henry II , gave the advowson and church of Bradfield , Norf . , to Walden priory.37 Geoffrey de Say confirmed to Coxford the gifts of William de Chesney and John his nephew , and also gave the church of St. Margaret at Thorpe by ( South ) Repps for the souls of his wife Alice , his father William , and others of his kindred.³ 38 On New Year's Day , 1198 or 1199 , Geoffrey de Sai and Geoffrey son of the same Geoffrey and Alice ( Aeliza ) de Chesney , for the souls of the said Alice de Chesney , William her son and William earl of Mandevill , gave to the hospital at Drincourt a church and land in the same district.39 Geoffrey de Say , son of William de Say , made a feoffment of land in Edmonton , Midd . , towards the end of the 12th century ; as Geoffrey de Say , son of Alice de Chesney , he made another feoff ment of land there.40 Geoffrey and Alice gave the church of West Greenwich , Kent , to the abbey of Beigham.41 Within the period 1196-1198 Geoffrey son of William de Say gave to Geoffrey his son the manor of Rickling , Essex.42 Geoffrey de Say was surety in 1194 with earl Roger Bigod and William de Warenne ( of Wormegay ) for Robert de Mortemer ( of Attleborough ) that Robert would make his peace with the king , through the mediation of the primate , for having tourneyed without licence.43 


 
 
 In August 1214 Geoffrey son and heir of Geoffrey de Sai made fine with the king for his father's lands in the counties of Hertford , Buckingham , Sussex , Middlesex and Northampton ; 44 he gave 400 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 335] ===
 
 
 HAMSEY , SADDLESCOMBE , STINTON 319 


 
 
 marks for this fine to include the manor of Rickling given to him by his said father.45 In 1223 he was preparing to go on pilgrimage to Santiago.46 He died beyond seas on 19 August , 1230 ; when William his son and heir succeeded , ª7 and in 1237 conceded the right of William earl Warenne to the fishery of Hamsey ( Hammes ) and withdrew his claim to chase venison in certain of the earl's woods in Sussex.48 About the same date William confirmed to the Templars their manor of Saddlescombe , which Geoffrey his grandfather had given in exchange for his earlier gift of the manor of East Green wich.49 In 1242-3 he held 14 fees in Hamsey with its members . A knight's fee in Rottingdean , which the abbot of Sibton then held , may have been parcel of the manor of Hamsey . As stated above , the founder of Sibton ( c . 1149 ) was William the sheriff , son of Robert Fitz - Walter 50 by Sibyl sister of John de Chesney . 51 At the same date the prior of Coxford held 2 fees in Roudham , Marham , Gayton- ' Croft , ' ' Mortoft , ' Sall , Barmere , Syderstone and Heydon , Norf . , of the earl Warenne , 52 of which the prior's successor in 1302 held fee in East Roudham , Syderstone and Barmere of the heirs . of William de Sai . 53 


 
 
 In 1243 a knight's fee in Little Buckhill , Bucks . , was held of Geoffrey de Say , who held it of William of Salisbury ( Longespee ) as of the honor of Dover . 54 Geoffrey Fitz - Piers , earl of Essex , the founder of Shouldham priory , appears to have endowed that house with land in Wereham , Norf . , 55 parcel of this fee , for in 1302 the prior held fee there of William de Say.56 


 Geoffrey de Say had in 1265 a grant of free warren in Denham , Suff . 57 In 1280 Gilbert de Woutham held fee in Hamsey , Offham , Allington and Chailey , Suss . , of William de Say.58 In 1284-5 the vill of Newtimber was held of John de Bohun ; William de Say held Street and Hamsey ; both held of the Earl Warenne.59 In 1286 Robert Aguillon died holding a tenement at Perching for fee of Sir William de Beaumont , who held it of Sir William de Say . 60 In 1295 William de Say died holding the manor of Hamsey for 13 fees of John de Warenne , earl of Surrey . Geoffrey his son was aged 14. 61 In 1302-3 the following tenements were held of Geoffrey de Say : Giles de Breuse 62 1 fee in Sall . Robert le Burgelion fee Walter de Calthorp of ) Robert le Burgelyon ) Walter de Clopton and William de Kerdeston fee of Walter de Clopton ) Roger de Gyney of ) Robert le Burgelyon 


 1 fee 


 fee in Kerdiston . 


 It belongs to the whole fee of Beamund . ' 


 
 
 T 


 
 
 in Themelthorpe . 


 
 
 John son of William Peyvere the manor of Thorpe Market ( Thorpmarch ' ) for 1 fee . 


 I 


 William de Redham the manor of Reedham of William de Say for I fee . 


 The prior of Shouldham . The prior of Coxford 


 
 
 see above . 63 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 336] ===
 
 
 320 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 Geoffrey de Say died in 1322 , leaving issue Geoffrey his son and heir , aged 18,64 who held in 1324 of Aymer de Valence 5 fees in Coxford , Rudham , Roudham , ' Houghton in the Hole ( ' Houtone Gemere ' ) , Syderstone , Gayton- ' Croft , ' Sall , Wood ( ? ) Dalling , Marham , Kerdiston , Reedham , Reepham , Attlebridge , Taverham , Stinton , Stoke Ferry , Wereham , Boughton , Gayton , Middleton by Lenn and Clenchwarton , all in Norfolk . These fees were claimed by the earl of Surrey as pertaining to the honor of Lewes . 65 Besides these there would appear to have been 9 fees in Sussex and elsewhere . In 1334 the king , at the request of John de Warenne , earl of Surrey , granted to Geoffrey de Say view of frankpledge in his manors . of West Greenwich , Deptford , Cudham , Birling and Burham , Kent , with other liberties.66 


 
 
 The Coxford chartulary , as cited above , does not give the names of John de Chesney's elder daughters , but merely states that William de Say and Alice de Suthsex sprang from them . It seems probable , then , that the above Alice de Say was the eldest daughter . Nothing is known of the second ; but the third , Emma , married Michael Belet , butler of Henry II , son of Hervey Belet . As Emma de Kaineto , widow of Michael Belet , she gave a man named Reginald to Walden priory , 67 and confirmed to the canons of Coxford the two churches of Rudham as her father , John de Querceto , had given them.68 At the request of Hervey her son she gave them 40 ac . of heath in Rudham , 69 and Hervey himself gave his manor of Rudham and whatever could fall to him in Crython ( sic ) , Marham , Sydesterne , Bermere , and Croft , for the maintenance of a hospital . 70 Master Michael Belet , the eldest son , founder of Wroxton priory , Oxon . , " ¹ confirmed his brother Hervey's gift.72 Geoffrey de Say also confirmed it.73 There were numerous other children , but a daughter , Annora Belet , seems to have become the heir ; as widow and patron of Coxford she released to the canons all the customs the patrons of the house had exercised , and this for the souls of Walter de Verdun ( sheriff of Essex , 1218-20 ) and Ralph de Verdun.74 Annora was living in 1255.75 William son of William de Say acknowledged that he had received from Hugh de Helman , prior of Coxford , the homage nomine patronatus due to him by the gift of Robert de Wavere , heir of dame Annora de Verdun.76 Walter de Verdun was dead in 1229 , when his son Ralph gave relief on succeeding " 7 ; Ralph died abroad in 1230 , and his cousin Amauri de St. Amand succeeded.78 Another daughter may have been the Emma de Chesney whose son John and grandson Ralph de Chesney had land in Rudham.79 


 71 


 77 


 
 
 We return to the pourparty held by Cressi . Hugh de Creissi was in possession of some part of this fee in 1173 , when £ 9 remaining due out of the earl Warenne's levy of £ 60 to the scutage of Ireland was pardoned to Hugh de Creissi , as was 40s . due also from Hugh for the knight's fee which he held , as in 1166 , of the honor of Giffard.80 See n . 45 of that honor for the descent of Creissi . 


 
 
 In 1205 Roger de Cressi obtained possession , inter alia , of Rotting dean , of which Hugh his father had been seised and in which Richard de Blenvell , the then holder , had entry only by Robert Fitz - Roger , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 337] ===
 
 
 HAMSEY , SADDLESCOMBE , STINTON 321 


 
 
 81 


 in whose custody Roger de Cressi had been while under age . In the ensuing year Roger de Cressi demised to Roger son of William fee , and to Ralph de Duuerent fee , both lying in Rottingdean and Baldeshild . ' 82 In 1210 Osbert Giffard claimed a knight's fee in Rottingdean and Baldeshill against Roger de Cressi , son of William , and a like tenement against Ralph de Duuerent ' ; Roger de Cressi the younger put in his claim . 83 Dame Margery de Creissi was in the king's gift in 1219 with land in Filby , Norf . , worth £ 5 a year , and in the Suffolk hundred of Blything with £ 13 a year . 84 Roger de Cressi confirmed gifts to Sibton made by his mother dame Margaret de Cressi.85 He gave to Walter ( ? Robert ) Malet land in Rottingdean and Baldeshilde ' ; Walter and the other tenant , Osbert Giffard , were to do the service of 1 knight for the whole , but Walter was to acquit the grantor of the service due to the earl of Warenne.86 


 In the Coxford chartulary the sons of Hugh and Margaret Cressi are said to have been Hugh , Roger , John , and Stephen , who all died without issue . Margaret afterwards married Robert son of Roger , and had by him a son Roger , father of Robert , who after the death of Stephen de Cressi succeeded to the barony of Horsford as Margaret's heir . This Robert , living in the time of Edward I , had a numerous family by his wife Margery la Zouche.87 


 Evidence of another pourparty of this fee which descended to the Engaynes is found in a Plea Roll of 1222 , when Vitalis Engayne demanded against Peter Fitz - Herbert a third part of 2 carucates in ' Mor , ' Norf . , as his right , as that whereof William de Chesney was seised in the time of Henry II ; he had 3 daughters , namely Margery Creissi , Clemency , and Sarra the youngest , who was mother of Vitalis the complainant . Peter stated that he held the land as that given in marriage with Alice his wife and he vouched to warranty Herbert his son and heir . 88 At his death in 1248 Vitalis Engaine held the manor of Colne Engaine of Hugh de Creissi for fee ; 89 but it was not a member of the honor of Warenne.90 


 
 
 1 


 2 


 
 
 Thomas de Nerford , knt . , died in 1344 , seised of the manor of Saddlescombe , Suss . , jointly with Alesia his wife , who survived him ; it was held of the Hospitallers , who held of the earl of Warenne , and would revert to the Hospitallers after the death of Thomas and Alesia . 91 


 
 
 1. Anct . Deeds ( Pipe Roll Soc . x . ) , 7 ; Mon. Angl . v . 14 ; see p . 312 above . 2. Watson , op . cit . i . 102. 3. Cat . of Anct . D. v . A. 10988 . 4. Lewes Chartul . , Vesp . F. xv . f . 13 . 5. Ibid . f . 119. 6. Ibid . 7. Ibid . f . 120 . 8. Ibid . 9. Mon. Anglic . vi . 369. 9a . Dugdale MS . ( Bodleian ) 39 , f 1016 . 9b . Ibid . f . 102. 10. Will . of Tyre , xvi . 25 ; Geneal . N.S. xi . 132. 11. Mon. Angl . v . 14. 12. Ibid . iii . 636b .; v . 559b . 13. Dugdale MS . 39 , f . 103 . A slight variation is shown on f . 1038. 14. Mon. Angl . iii . 637b . 15. Ibid . v . 560. 16. Ibid . 559. 17. Pipe R. 2 Hen . II , 7-8 . 18. Ibid . 7 Hen . II , I - 2 , 7. 19. Ibid . 10 Hen . II , 33-4 . 20. Ibid . 11 Hen . II , 8 . Hen . II , 31 ; 13 Hen . II , 32. 22. Red Bk . 410. 23. Ibid . 393 , 404 . Chartul . , Vesp . F. xv . f . 125. 25. Pipe R. 13 Hen . II , 18-19 . 26. Ibid . 16 Hen . II , 137 . 27. Ibid . 18 Hen . II , 25. 28. Ibid . 20 Hen . II , 40 . 29. Ibid . 21 Hen . II , 107 , 111. 30. R. de Dominabus , 27 ( note by Mr. Round ) . 31. R. Curia Regis 83 ( Mich . 7-8 , Hen . III ) , m . gd . Cf. Pipe R. 31 Hen . II , 15. 32. R. Lit. Claus . i . 202. 33. Feet of F. , Divers and Unk . Counties , 282/8 , n . I. 34. Cat . of Anct . D. iv . A. 6207 . 36. Eyton , Hist . of Salop , iii , 331-3 . Cf. 


 21. Ibid . 12 24. Lewes 


 55 . 


 
 
 35. Pipe R. 22 Hen . II , Stapleton , Norman Excheq . 


 
 
 III . Y 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 338] ===
 
 
 322 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 i.90 . 37. Walden Chartulary , Harl . 3697 , f . 238d . 38. Dugdale MS . ( Bodl . ) 39 , 40. Cat . of Anct . D. ii . A. Cat . of Anct . D. iii . C. 3188 . 45. R. de Fin . 527 , 535 . 48. Feet of F. Suss . i . n . 341 . 50. Ibid . v . 559. 51. Ibid . 559b . 


 
 
 f . 101b . 39. Round , Cal . of Docs . France , n . 280 . 1969. A. 2035. 41. Mon. Angl . vi . 913b . 42 . 43. R. Cur . Reg . i . 87. 44. R. Lit. Claus . i . 209b . 46. Pat . R. 369 . 47. Close R. 431 . 49. Ibid . n . 342 ; Mon. Anglic . vi . 840b . 52. Bk . of Fees , 904 . 53. Feud . Aids , iii . 403 . i . nos . 13 , 467 . Mon. Angl . vi . 975 . 


 54. Cal . Misc . Inq . 56. Feud . Aids , iii . 400 . 


 55 . 


 62. In 1301 


 57. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 52. 58. Suss . Feet of F. n . 1045. 59. Feud . Aids , V. 129–30 . 60. Cal . Inquis . ii . 361. 61. Ibid . iii . 169 . Alice late wife of Richard de Brewosa held the manor of Stinton ( in Sall ) of the heir of William de Say by knight's service ; Cal . Close 1301 , P. 457 . 63. Feud . Aids , iii . 400-37 . 64. Cal . Inquis . vi . 192 . 65. Ibid . 330 . 66. Cal . Chart . R. iv . 320. 67. Harl . MS . 3697 , f . 238d . 68. Dugdale MS . 39 , f . 101b . 69. Ibid . 70. Mon. Angl . vi . 369b . 71. Ibid . vi . 485 . 72. Dugdale MS . 39 , f . 102. 73. Ibid . 74. Ibid . 75. Ibid . f . 102d . 76. Ibid . 77. Excerpt . Fin . i . 78. Ibid . i . 204 ; Close . R. 1231 , p . 566 . See Foss , Judges , ii . 493. 79. Dugdale MS . 69 , f . 102d . 80. Pipe R. 19 Hen . II , 28 , 79. 81. R. Lit. Claus . i . 33b . 82. Suss . Feet of F. nos . 106–7 . 83. Curia Regis R. 68 , m . 9. 84. Bk . of Fees , 280 , 282. 85. Sibton Chartul . , Arundel 221 , f . 83. 86. Ibid . f . 84d . 87. Dugdale MS . 39 , f . 103d . 88. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 181. 89. Cal . Inquis . i . 43. 90. See Mr. Round in Essex Arch . Trans . N.S. viii . 192-8 . 91. Cal . Inquis . viii . 360 . 


 182 . 


 
 
 II . 


 In Sussex in 1086 Godfrey ( de Petra Ponte ) held of William de Warenne in Herpingden ( Herbertinges ' ) 6 hides , Ovingdean 6 hides , Aldrington 7 hides and virgate , [ Portslade ] 9 hides , East Chiltington 1 hide . 


 Hugh son of Ranulf held of William de Warenne in Plumpton 30 hides which had belonged to Bosham . 


 William de Watevile held of William de Warenne 10 hides in Barcombe . 


 In Suffolk Godfrey de Petra Ponte held of William de Warenne in Henstead , a berewick of Wrentham , I carucate , Thorington 2 carucates . ( See n . 4. ) 


 
 
 In Norfolk Turold held of William de Warenne in Filby 1 caru cate and 9 acres ; 3 freemen held in Caston 1 carucate belonging to the castle of Lewes ; Lambert held in Waterdene I carucate and in Rudham I carucate . Of the exchange of Lewes of the land of the saints William de Warenne held in Wicklewood 1 carucate , Morley 2 carucates and Deopham 30 acres ; 4 freemen held in Tofts ( in Rock land St. Peter ) 1 carucate ; Hugh held in Larling 1 carucates Simon held in Rockland ( All Saints ) 3 carucates with 63 freemen holding 70 acres and 91 freemen holding 1 carucate and 54 acres ; 2 freemen held in Roudham I carucate . 


 I 


 I 


 In Cambridgeshire Lambert held of William de Warenne im ( Yen Hall in West ) Wickham I hide , Wratting 3 virgates . 


 1 


 Before 1086 ( ? ) Robert de Petra Ponte and Godfrey his son gave to St. Michael's , Treport , the tithes of Cuverville . Godfrey de Petra Ponte , William his son , and Nigel his son - in - law attested the confirmation charters of Henry I and William earl of Surrey to the monks of Lewes of the approximate date 1107-1118.2 Godfrey gave to the monks of St. Pancras at Lewes 2 hides ( in Ovingdean ? ) . ³ 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 339] ===
 
 
 PORTSLADE 323 


 
 
 It is noteworthy that the ancestor in Domesday of the family of Borham , tenants in Essex of the honor of Boulogne , was Lambert , but there seems to be no evidence that he was the same man as ' Lambertus homo Willelmi de Warenna ' of the Inquisitio Com . Cantabrigiensis . 


 Jordan de Blossevill , who tested a charter of William , 2nd earl Warenne , during the period 1118-1138 , gave to Lewes land in Oving dean.4 


 
 
 5 


 This fee appears to have escheated to the earl of Surrey and to have been bestowed by him on his illegitimate son , Reginald de Warenne , who was born probably before 1118 and survived until c . 1178. This Reginald married Alice daughter and heir of William de Wormegay , lord of Wormegay until 1166 , when he died , for in that year Reginald de Warenne owed 700 m . for fine of the land of William de Wormegay . In the ensuing year the barons of the exchequer respited payment , because Reginald had accompanied the king's daughter to Saxony . At Reginald's death 250 m . of this fine were still due and were accounted for by his widow , Alice de Warenne , with her fine of 200 m . for her patrimony of Wormegay.7 In 1180 their son , William de Warenne , accounts for his parents ' fines . By his first wife , Beatrice de Perepont , he had , besides other issue , a daughter Beatrice , ultimately his heir . She married first Doun Bardolf , by whom she had William , afterwards known as William Bardolf , the elder , who survived until c . 1276. In 1209 Beatrice daughter of William de Warenne rendered account of 3100 marks , to be paid within four years , for having her father's land as his heir and for dower of her late husband Doun Bardolf's land , and that she should not be constrained to marry ; further , that her father's debt to the king should be discharged from his chattels and those that his wife Milisent held at his death . This Milisent was the widow of Richard de Muntfichet , whom William de Warenne had married in 1203 ; he owed 400 marks in 1208 for having her , and 100 marks for her dower by the king's letters patent granted in 1203.9 


 
 
 6 


 
 
 In 1226 there was a suit between the earl Warenne and William Bardolf touching the manor of Roding Bardolf in Essex , and in 1229 Bardolf released it to the earl in exchange for £ 10 worth of land in Piddinghoe , Suss.10 


 11 


 Beatrice married , secondly , Hubert de Burgh , who was created earl of Kent in 1227. She was dead by 1217 , when he married again . Hubert enfeoffed his daughter Margery of the manor of Portslade before 1226 , in which year she recorded her claim to it , when William Bardolf conveyed the manor and 10 knights ' fees there to Hubert de Burgh , as Bardolf's gift . She died in or before 1237. The honor of Wormegay and other lands had come into Hubert's hands owing to the minority of William Bardolf . Wormegay was restored on Hubert's death , but before 1241 Portslade had gone to Hubert's son John de Burgh , for in that year John had respite of his relief for this manor , due to the crown by reason of the lands of the earl Warenne being in wardship of the crown , as parcel of the lands late of Margery , John's sister , which she held of the earl Warenne.12 John de Burgh 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 340] ===
 
 
 324 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 held Portslade in 1242-3 , with 10 knights ' fees.13 Hubert de Burgh had fallen into disgrace in July 1232 , but his lands had been restored to him by writ of 13 Nov. , including his lands of Burgh , Sotherton and Beeston , Norf . , Rougham and Levington , Suff . , of his own inheritance , and those of Portslade and Fletching , Suss . , Wormegay , Norf . , Stow , Rouberton ' and Finborough , Suff . , and Harthill , Yorks . , of the inheritance of Beatrice formerly his wife.14 These lands were , however , in the ensuing year again in the king's hands for the satisfaction of wrongs to Roman and Italian clerks.15 At the same time the king's year and day was granted to William earl Warenne in the land which Hubert held of him in Norfolk , Suffolk and Yorkshire ; but Hubert was pardoned in 1234 and his lands were restored.16 


 
 
 Hubert de Burgh died in 1234 , when his lands descended to his son John , named above . In 1247 the widow , Margaret countess of Kent , claimed dower in the tenements of her late husband , where upon John satisfied her by assigning to her the manor of Portslade with Alderton , the advowson of the church of Alderton and vicarage of Portslade , and knight's fee which Alfred de Feringes held in Chiltington , Sussex.17 In 1258 John de Burgh leased the manor of Portslade for a term of 9 years ; 18 and again in 1270 he had licence to lease it to Robert Aguillon for a term of 4 years . 3 


 19 


 In 1265 the earl Warenne seized the land of Nigel de Broc and Hawise de Nevill in Bevendean , who were never rebels , and the land of John de Burgh in Portslade.20 In 1269 John de Gatesden died holding land and rent in Fletching , Barcombe and Bevendean , Suss . , by sale of Master William de Pierpont , together with the advowson of the church of Fletching ; Hawise de Nevill sometime his wife had held the premises jointly with the deceased . 21 


 
 
 After the death of John de Burgh in 1275 , Portslade and half of Aldrington were awarded , upon the partition of his lands in 1282 , to his youngest daughter and coheir , Hawise the wife of Robert Grelley , lord of Manchester , Lancs . , and Pirton , Oxon.22 Hawise held Portslade and a moiety of Aldrington in 1284-5,23 and at her death in 1299 held Portslade with the church of Aldrington of Hugh Bardolf for 1o fees ; Thomas de Grelley her son was aged 20 years . 24 It descended to John La Warre , 25 who in 1330 held Portslade for 10 fees of Thomas Bardolf as of his manor of Plumpton.26 He died in 1347 holding Portslade by the grant of Thomas Grelley , knt . , to the said John and Joan his wife , daughter and heir of the said Thomas Grelley , of John Bardolf.27 


 
 
 In addition to the lands mentioned above Reginald de Warenne appears to have obtained the manors of Plumpton and Barcombe with their members in Wivelsfield , Lindfield , Hoathley ( ' Hadlegh ' ) , Standean , Moulston , Ardingley , Pipestye ' and Fletching . In these places William Bardolf in 1254 obtained a grant of free warren.28 


 Reginald de Warenne gave , with the consent of Alice his wife and William his son , to the canons of Southwark the church of Plump ton.29 In 1275 the advowson of the church was released to William Bardolf by Alan prior of Southwark.30 Bardolf died in 1276 possessed of the manors of Plumpton , Barcombe and Piddinghoe , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 341] ===
 
 
 PORTSLADE 325 


 
 
 held of Sir John de Warenne , earl of Surrey , and of 40s . of rent in Fletching held of the prior of Lewes ; in Suffolk he held the manor of Wormgay with its members of Tilney , North Runcton , Stow , Finborough and Garvestone of the king in chief for 15 fees ; of the earl of Warenne he held 4 fees ( unspecified ) in Norfolk and the advowson of the church of Morley , Norf .; William his son and heir was aged 45 years.31 


 Reginald de Warenne also received a large estate in Norfolk , viz . in Barsham , Clipstone , Kettlestone , Waterden , Fulmodeston , Croxton , Burnham ( Thorp ) , Caston , Lirlingge , Rockland , Rudham , Wicklewood , Morley , Deopham Dalling , Mortoft and other places , parcel of the Domesday fee of William de Warenne . Owing to the Ìands of this fee and those of the honor of Wormegay being some what intermixed it is difficult to distinguish the sub - infeudations of the one fee from those of the other . Some of the places are dealt with under the Burnham or Calthorpe fee ( no . 23 ) . 


 
 
 In 1242-3 these fees in Norfolk were held of the earl Warenne , some of them presumably of William Bardolf the elder , as mesne : 


 
 
 Reginald de St. Martin 1 fee in Waterden , East Barsham and Hempton . 


 
 
 Roger de Schovill fee in East Harling . 


 Robert Malet fee in East Harling . 


 10 


 1 


 William de Lirlinge fee in Rushford ( Rischewrthe ) . Thomas Bacon fee in Dalling . 


 Nigel de Risley fee in Morley . 


 
 
 William de Lirlinge fee in Lirling . 


 Robert de Cateston , John de Rudham and their fellows I fee in Rudham , Rockland and Beckerton.32 


 
 
 William Bardolf , son of William Bardolf the elder , held the manor of Plumpton and land in Hoathley in 1284-5 , and died in 1290 , holding of the earl of Surrey a messuage at Hoathley , a member of Plumpton , and the manor of Barcombe ; Hugh his son and heir was aged 30.3 


 The following tenements were held in 1302 of Hugh Bardolf , who held them of the earl Warenne : 


 
 
 Robert Crowe and others 


 fee in Burnham of the heirs of Verly ( Virluy ' ) and they of Hugh Bardolf & c . 


 Pertaining to the manor of Fulmerston 


 fee in Clipstone 


 held of Hugh Bardolf & c . 


 William de Caston the manor of Caston for fee of Hugh Bardolf . 


 
 
 Nicholas Norman of Grimston fee in Grimston . 


 Matilda de Lirlingg 


 fee in Larlingge of Hugh Bardolf & c . William de Crungelthorpe , Robert de Wirlyngworth , John de Rudham and the prior of Westacre fee in Rudham of Robert de Caston and he of Hugh Bardolf & c . 


 John de Faulkener fee in East Harling of dame Matilda de Boylund and she of Philip de Verly and he of Hugh Bardolf & c . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 342] ===
 
 
 326 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 William de Hakeford fee in the same ( East Harling ) of Adam de Moreland and he of Hugh Bardolf & c . 


 12424 


 Matilda de Gunevile fee in Rushford of Hugh Bardolf & c . Sir Roger de St. Martin fee in Waterdene of Hugh Bardolf , whereof the prior of St. Stephen's of Fakenham held fee . Thomas Bakoun fee in Field Dalling of Robert le Virluy and he of Hugh Bardolf & c.34 


 nilo 


 John de Thorp and Alice his wife ( see n . 42 ) fee in Gayton Thorpe of Hugh Bardolf.35 


 
 
 Hugh Bardolf died in 1304 holding the manor of Barcombe of the earl of Warenne for fee ; the manor of Plumpton , Suss . , held jointly with Isabel his wife , daughter and heir of Robert Aguillon , by the gift of William Bardolf his father , of the earl of Warenne ; a capital messuage in Harthill , Yorks . , of John de Neufmarché , who held of the earl Warenne , for fee ; Thomas his son was aged 22 and 1111 more.36 


 
 
 Isabel died in 1323 holding the manor of Plumpton with a water mill in Fletching and the members in Ditching , Wivelsfield , Cuck field , Ardingley , West Hoathley , Lindfield , Smythewyke and Piddinghoe , and the manor of Barcombe ; Thomas son of Hugh Bardolf and the said Isabel was aged 40 and more.37 


 In 1324 Thomas Bardolf held of Aymer de Valence , earl of Pem broke , 6 fees , which were claimed by the earl of Surrey as pertaining to the honor of Lewes , in Yen Hall and Fulbourn , Cambs . , Caston , Rockland , Roudham , Croxton , Clipston , Kettlestone , Fulmodeston , Rushford , Larling , Newton , Houghton in the Hole , Hempton , Bar sham , Waterdene , Burnham , Euston ( Suff . ) , East Harling , Wickle wood , Morley , Deopham and Harling , Norf . , and Werling , Suff.38 


 Thomas Bardolf died in 1330 holding the manor of Plumpton , with land in Hoathley and the manors of Barcombe and Fletching jointly with John his son and Elizabeth wife of the said John of the earl Warenne as of the barony of Lewes for II fees ; the manor of Harthill , Yorks . , with the members ; the following tenements held of him probably belonged to this fee : 


 
 
 Philip de Virly held the manor of Euston , Suff . ( honor of Wormegay ) , and 200 acres of land in Tunstall , Field Dalling , East Harling , Burnham Thorp , Old Lynn , Tittleshall and Bradenham , Norf . , for 2 fees . 


 John de Caston held the manor of Caston and 100 a . of land in Rockland , Thompson , Beckerton , West Tofts , Roudham , Greston and Old Buckenham for 1 fee . 


 Nicholas Noreman held a messuage and 60 a . of land in Grimston for fee . 


 
 
 Edmund de Gonevill held the manor of Larling with 60 a . of land in Rushford , Shadwell and Newton in Holond , Norf . , for I fee . 


 
 
 John Bardolf and his parceners held 2 messuages and 200 a . of land in Waterdene , Hempton , Barsham , Whitsonsett and Stanfield , Norf . , for I fee . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 343] ===
 
 
 POYNINGS , WRENTHAM 327 


 
 
 Humphrey de Bohun held the manor of Croxton , Norf . , for 


 
 
 fee . 


 Joan de Botetourt held the manor of Yen Hall , Cambs . ( honor of Wormegay ? ) . 


 
 
 John Le Warre held of Thomas Bardolf as of the manor of Plumpton 10 fees in Portslade and the members.39 


 
 
 1. Round , Cal . of Docs . , France , n . 230 . 2. Anct . Deeds ( P.R.S. x . ) , 5 , 7 . 3. Watson , Warren , i . 129. 4. Ibid . 131. 5. Pipe R. 12 Hen . II , 19. 6. Ibid . 13 Hen . II , 19. 7. Ibid . 25 Hen . II , 2. 8. Ibid . 11 John , Norf . m . 5d . 9. R. Lit. Pat . 35 ; Pipe R. 10 John , m . 19d . 10. R. Lit. Claus . ii . 110 ; Essex Feet of F. Hen . III , n . 272. 11. Suss . Feet of F. n . 200. Of Margery de Burgh see Mat . Paris , Chron . Maj . iii . 386. 12. Excerpt . Fin . i . 342 , 344 . 13. Testa , 2226. 14. Close R. 166. 15. Ibid . 188. 16. Ibid . 331 , 534 . 17. Sussex Feet of F. i . 118 . 18. Cal . Pat . R. 251 . 19. Ibid 419 . 20. Cal . Misc . Inq . i . 276. 21. Cal . Inquis . i . 223. 22. Cal . Close R. 186 . 23. Feud . Aids , v . 129. 24. Cal . Inquis . iii . 405 . 25. V. C. H. Lancs . i . 333 . 26. Ibid . vii . 177 . 27. Ibid . ix . 37 . 28. Cal . Pat . 1254 , P. 313 . 29. Mon. Anglic . vi . 171 . n . 837. 31. Cal . Inquis . ii . 115-6 . 32. Testa , 287 . 34. Feud . Aids , iii . pass . 37. Ibid . vi . 272 . 


 30. Suss . Feet of F. Cf. Red Bk . 744 . 35. Ibid . vi . 554 . 38. Ibid . 330 , 334 . 


 33. Cal . Inquis . ii . 468 . 36. Cal . Inquis . iv . 166–8 . 39. Ibid . vii . 175–182 . 


 
 
 III . 


 In Sussex in 1086 William son of Rainald ( son of Reiner ) held of William de Warenne in Poynings 8 hides , Pangdean ( Piccombe ) 10 hides , Pangdean 9 hides , Ashcombe 2 hides ; of the said William son of Rainald land of 2 ploughs in Pangdean was held by Roger and Walter . 


 
 
 2 


 In Norfolk William held of William de Warenne in Foulden 1 carucate . William de Warenne held in Wilton carucates and 20 acres , Mundford 1 carucate , Letton carucate , Shipdham I carucate , Bodney 1 carucate , Hackford 1 carucate , Coltishall 110 acres , held by Turold in 1086 , Hockwold and Rising ' ( ? Reymers ton ) land for 2 ploughs , Northwold 5 carucates . For Filby see n . 2 . 


 I 


 In Suffolk William ( son of Rainald ) held of William de Warenne in Wrentham 3 carucates , also carucate 50 acres which Alvric de Sanford held , and 1 carucate which freemen held ; in ' Norhals ' ( ? Cove and Covehithe ) 2 carucates and 100 acres ; William son of Rainald held all these lands of William de Warenne.¹ 


 
 
 It seems possible that William had succeeded his father not long before the date of the survey . Rainald son of Renner 2 ( son of ) Reidi gave tithes of his demesne at Pangdean to Lewes , a gift else where described as made by Raynald de Puninges son of Reinerius.³ Fredesendis daughter of Hugh son of Renner gave to Lewes tithes . of Plumpton and Handean and a hide at Falmer.4 


 
 
 Adam de Poninges attested charters of William earl Warenne temp . Stephen 5 and of earl Hamelin temp . Henry II . He was possibly the Adam vicecomes of a charter of Reginald de Warenne which Simon de Hangleton also attested . He and Beatrice his wife gave to Lewes the churches of Poynings and Pangdean and land in Conicistre . ' 7 With the countess Isabel and Philip her brother he attested c . 1180 a charter of Osbert prior of Lewes.8 As he had sons , Adam , William and John , it was probably the younger Adam 


 9 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 344] ===
 
 
 328 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 de Pouninges who was attorney for earl Hamelin in a Yorkshire plea in 1194.10 Adam son of Adam de Poinings gave to Lewes priory , for the soul of his mother Beatrice , the tithes of cheese of Poynings and Pangdean , by a charter to which Hamelin the earl and Isabel the countess were witnesses . 11 He had a plea in Suffolk in 1198 with Robert de Pierpont.12 


 In 1206 Adam de Cailly had a plea against Michael de Puninges and Margery his wife of admensuration of ( Margaret's ) dower in Bradenham , Denver and Ryston , Norf.13 There was another plea between Adam and Margery in 1232 touching the same matter , 14 and a fine in 1239 of land in Bradenham.15 Michael de Puninges was in the Irish campaign of 1210. In 1212 he was commissioned to take as many fat harts as he could outside the royal park of Knap , Suss.16 In 1216 he was against king John , ¹7 but in 1217 he had safe conduct to travel through the dominion.18 


 
 
 Thomas de Puninges succeeded . 


 He held 10 fees in Poynings and its members 19 in 1242-3 , when some of the following tenements in Norfolk were held of him , as of the fee of Warenne : 


 
 
 William de Hakeford fee in Hackford . 


 William de Hakeford , Walter de Rochefort and their fellows fee in Coltishall . Isabel de Hulmo fee in Fileby . Osbert de Mundeford and fee in Reymerston . 


 fee in Mundford , fee in Hockwold , 1 


 Gilbert de Walsham fee in Northwold . 


 
 
 19/00 


 
 
 Robert Agelliun , Thomas de Ingaldesthorpe and Robert de Scales 1 fee in Wilton and Hockwold.20 


 I 


 
 
 It is probable that I fee in Hangleton , Suss . , which Robert de Cukesfeld held of the fee of Warenne in 1242-3 was a member of the Poynings fee . At this date Margery de Poynings held 1 fee in Denver , Norf . , in dower.21 


 
 
 22 


 In 1246 Thomas de Poynings was keeper of escheats in Suffolk ; two years later a perambulation was to be made between his land of Pyecombe , Suss . , and the land of Bartholomew de Capella in Newtimber.23 He died before 1253 , when Avice his relict was instituting a plea in Kent.24 In 1268 Luke de Poynings held by knight's service of the heirs of Richard de Muntfichet in Benacre , Suff.25 In 1269 Adam de Poynings held fee in Sidestrand , Norf . , of Richard de Plaiz.26 In 1272 Luke de Poynings had a grant of free warren in Wrentham , Henstead and Benacre , Suff . 27 Shortly after wards , as Luke de Ponyngs , knt . , son of Thomas de Ponyngs , he released to Lewes all claim in the church of Pyecombe.28 In 1275 ( as one of the heirs of Robert de Aguillon ) he held a tenement in Bicham , Norf . , of the heirs of the wife of Roger de Sumeri.29 In 1279 he claimed to have market and fair at Crawley , Suss . , by the grant of Henry III.30 In 1275 Adam de Cokefeld , Robert Pujois , Luke de Ponynges and Reginald de Argentein had leet and liberties in Flitcham , Norf .; 31 the same Luke , Adam , and Reginald , with 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 345] ===
 
 
 POYNINGS , WRENTHAM 329 


 
 
 Edmund de Ingoldesthorp and Alice de Scales , had assize of bread & c . in the vill of Hockwold and Wilton.32 


 In 1280 Luke was party to a fine of lands in Twineham , Bolney , Portslade and Slaugham , Suss.33 In 1284-5 he held lands in Poynings , Piecomb and Slaugham , 34 and I fee in Preston of dame Isabel de la Haye.35 This was the manor of Jevington , which he held in 1293 of Nicholaa late wife of Baldwin de Aldham.36 In 1286 Luke de Poynings defended his claim to certain liberties at Wrent ham , Suff.37 He died in or soon after 1293. His son ( ? ) , Michael de Poninges , was in possession of Slaugham in 1295 , when his park there was broken into and his deer taken whilst he was in Scotland with the earl of Surrey.3 


 38 


 In 1302 the following tenements , or some of them , were held of or by Michael de Poninges : 


 39 


 
 
 Michael de Poninges 1 fee in Wrentham , Covehithe ( Northal ' ) , Cove and Benacre , Suff . 


 Michael de Poninges and his fellows 1 fee in Fouldon and Bodney , Norf . 


 Ralph de Schipedham and Simon Brake fee in Shipdham , of Michael de Ponynges , belonging to the manor of Wilton . Robert Carle and John de Hokewolde fee in Wilton and 11 Hockwold of John de Cokefeld and Andrew de Sakevile , and they of the earl Warenne . 


 3 


 John de Cokefeld and Andrew de Sakevile fee in Wilton of the earl Warenne . 


 
 
 Michael de Ponyngges fee in Wilton ( as above ) . Robert de Skales & fee in Wilton ( as above ) . 


 John de Mundeford & fee in Wilton ( as above ) . 


 Adam de Mundeford fee in Hockwold and Wilton of John 


 
 
 1 


 
 
 4 


 de Cokefeld and his parceners , and they ( as above ) . 


 William de Hakeforde and his tenants 


 the earl Warenne . 


 
 
 fee in Coltishall of 


 
 
 Aymer de Valence holds the manor of Filby for fee of the king in chief . 


 
 
 1 


 
 
 John de Mundeford fee in Mundford of John de Cokefeld and his fellows , and they of the earl Warenne . 


 Thomas Dakeny fee in Northwold of the earl Warenne . 


 
 
 4 


 The abbot of Dereham fee in Dereham of the earl Warenne.40 


 
 
 At the same time Michael de Poninges held 1 fee in Preston as of the manor of Jevington of the honor of L'Aigle.41 In 1305 land in Wilton and Foulden , Norf . , was held of Michael de Poynings , 42 who held in 1314 of Gilbert de Clare , earl of Gloucester , fee in Ineshawe , Norf.43 He died before 1316 , when his widow Margery was returned as lady of Poynings and Pyecombe . She was living in 1334 , when she had the patronage of the church of Hock wold , Norf.45 


 44 


 
 
 In 1315 Thomas de Poyninges , knt . , attested a charter of John de Warenne , earl of Surrey.46 He married before 1321 Agnes , then aged 22 , daughter and coheir of Richard son of John de 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 346] ===
 
 
 330 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 1 


 Rokesle of Westwood , Kent.47 In 1324 the lord of Ponynings and Robert Poteys ( alibi Michael de Poynings ) held 7 fees of Aymer de Valence in Wilton , Hockwell , Hackford , Bylaugh ( ' Belhawe ' ) , Filby , Letton , Shipdham , Mundford , Fouldon , Bodney , Stibbard , and Coltishall , Norf . , and 2 fees in Wrentham , Cove , and the members in Suff.48 In 1325 Thomas de Poynings had land in Benfield , Suss . , 49 possibly by reason of wardship , and in 1327 held of Richard de Plaiz 1 fee in Wormingford , fee in Tendring , Essex , fee in Sidestrand , Norf . , and fee in Foulmere , Cambs . 50 In the ensuing year he had a grant of free warren in Slaugham , Shelly and Ifield , Suss . , Westwood , Faversham , Preston , Selling and Sheldwich , Kent , Bures St. Mary and Wiston , Suff . , and Wormingford , Essex . 51 He married before 1323 Agnes , younger sister of Joan wife of William Baud , knt . , and relict of Walter de Pateshull , which Agnes and Joan were daughters and heirs of Richard de Rokesle52 and eventually heirs of John son of Bertram de Criol , their uncle.53 Lands in Hatfield Peverel in 1337 and in Ospringe , Kent , in 1339 , were held of the same Thomas , who was slain in battle with the French by sea off Sluys ( ? ) on 17 Octo ber , 1339,54 holding the manors of Poynings , Hangleton ( ? n . 8 ) , Twineham , Slaugham and Pangdean , Suss . , and Wrentham , Suff . , of the earl Warenne ; that of Preston of the heir of John de St. Clare ( Sencler ) , those of Westwood and Wormingford and a moiety of that of Tirlingham , Kent , of others ; Michael his son was aged 22 ( sic ) years , 55 and had livery of his inheritance in 1340.56 He attested in 1342 charters made to Michael de Poynings l'uncle , knt . , and other feoffees by Hawise late wife of John de Wysham.57 In 1339 the king , in consideration of the great merits of Thomas de Poynings , knt . , tenant in chief , who met his death in his service , and the affection which the king had for him , took the fealty of his son and heir Michael , although still under age , and granted to him the lands which ought to pertain to the king by reason of his minority with the issues since his father's death , and further that the same Michael might select the person whom he would marry.58 In 1349 he had a grant of the lands of Margery late wife of Nicholas de La Beche.59 


 
 
 It appears that Margery , relict of Michael de Poynings , who died c . 1313 , married Edmund Bacon , and in 1326 a settlement of the manor of Hatfield Peverel , Essex , was made upon Edmund and the said Margery his wife in tail male . 6º After his decease she married Nicholas de La Beche , who died in 1345,61 when she married John son of Robert de Dalton , knt.62 She died at Calais in 1352 , holding for life the manor of Hatfield Peverel , the reversion of which belonged to Margery Bacon , then aged 15 years , wife of John de Molyns , knt . , and daughter and coheir of the said Edmund Bacon.63 On 5 September , 1351 , Michael de Poynings and one of the king's clerks gave an acquittance in respect of certain goods late of Margery late wife of Nicholas de La Beche ; the schedule contains 160 items and several hundred articles of clothing , furniture , household use , books , & c .; several were adorned with the arms of Poyning and La Beche , Poynings and Bacoun.64 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 347] ===
 
 
 HURSTPIERPOINT 331 


 
 
 Luke de Poynings married Isabel , one of the sisters and coheirs of Edmund de St. John of Halnaker , son of Hugh de St. John.65 See Arundel , n . 14. His relationship to the lords of Poynings is not clear . The descent of the last - named line will be found in Dugdale's Baronage , ii . 133–5 . 


 
 
 1. Dom . Bk . ii . 399b - 400b . 


 Chs . n . 25 . 


 2. See p . 310 above . 3. Mon. Angelic . 4. Watson , Warren Fam . 97. 5. Brit . Mus . Facsimiles of 6. Ibid . n . 31 . 7. Chartul . of Lewes , 124. 8. Cat . of Anct . D. A. 2389 . 9. Chartul . of Lewes , 151 , 1596 . 10. R. Cur . Reg . i . 72 . 11. Vesp . F. xv . f . 310 . 12. R. Cur . Reg . iii . 35 . 3. R. de Fin . 348. 14. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 672. 15. Feet of F. , Norf . , 23 Hen . III . 16. R. Lit. Claus . i . 123b . 17. Ibid . 250. 18. Pat . R. 87. 19. Bk . of Fees , 690 . 20. Ibid . 904-7 . 21. Ibid . 907 . 22. Cal . Pat . R. 482 . 23. Close R. 122 , 348. 24. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 162 . 25. Ibid . 471 . 26. Cal . Inquis . i . 226. 27. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 184. 28. Vesp . F. xv . f . 122d . 29. R. Hund . i . 461 . 31. R. Hund . i . 5376. 32. Ibid . 542b . 34. Feud . Aids , v . 129. 35. Cal . Inquis . ii . 339. 36. Feud . Aids , iv . 131 ; Cal . Close , 323. 37. Placit . de quo war . 728 . Cal . Pat . 156 , 217. 39. Feud . Aids , iii . pass . 40. Ibid . 41. Ibid . v . 131. 42. Cal . Inquis . iv . 220. 43. Ibid . v . 346. 44. Feud . Aids , v . 136 . 45. Cal . Pat . R. 486 , 517. 46. Ibid . 653 . 47. Cal . Inquis . vi . 157 , 250 , 341 . 48. Ibid . 330 , 334 ; Cal . Close R. 13 , 266 , 277. 49. Cal . Inquis . vi . 360. 50. Ibid . vii . 26. 51. Cal . Chart . R. iv . 76. Cf. Cal . Inquis . vii . 264 , 299 . 53. Ibid . 1332 , p . 491 ; Cal . Inquis . ix . 321. 54. The date of the battle of Sluys was 24 June , 1340. 55. Cal . Chart . R. viii . 170. 56. Cal . Close R. 345 . 57. Ibid . 524-5 . 58. Cal . Pat . R. 395. 59. Cat . of Anct . D. iii . D. 1230 . 61. Cal . Inquis . viii . 414. 62. Cat . of Anct . D. 


 30. Placit . de quo war . 755b . 33. Suss . Feet of F. n . 910 . 


 38 . 


 52. Cal . Close R. 8 , 106 , 


 60. Cal . Pat . R. 317 . 


 iii . D. 1230. 63. Cal . Inquis . x . 9. 64. Cal . Pat . R. 137-41 . 65. Cal . 


 Inquis . ix . 243 ; x . 228 . 


 
 
 v . 14b . 


 
 
 IV . 


 Robert ( de Petra Ponte ) held in 1086 of William de Warenne in Hurst - pierpoint , Suss . , 18 hides , of which William held of Robert 3 hides and Gilbert held similarly 3 hides ; in Westmeston , Suss . , 12 hides , of which a knight held of Robert 3 hides and 3 virgates ; in East Chiltington , Suss . , 5 hides and I virgate , of which a knight held of Robert 2 hides . 


 
 
 In Suffolk Robert de Petra Ponte held of William de Warenne a manor in Wrentham of 2 carucates , another manor of 2 carucates , and a third manor of 2 carucates and 360 acres held by freemen . 


 2 


 Hugh de Petra Ponte attested a charter of Henry count of Eu in 1106 , ¹ and a charter of William earl Warenne of Stephen's reign . Within the period 1145-1146 Hugh de Petreponte , Robert de Petreponte , and William de Petreponte attested the confirmation charter of William earl of Warenne to St. Pancras of Lewes.³ Hugh and Robert attested a charter of Reginald de Warenne to the same monastery of the date 1148-1149.4 Simon de Petraponte and 3 others held in 1166 of the bishop of Chichester 1 fee in Aldwick , Suss.5 Hugh de Perepont attested a charter of Godfrey bishop of Winchester ( 1189-1204 ) .6 


 I 


 
 
 7 


 Walter de Petraponte , who held of the archbishop of Canterbury fee in Stanstead and elsewhere in Kent , occurs in 1194. He was party as tenant with Lucy his mother as demandant to a fine in 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 348] ===
 
 
 332 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 1197 of land in Sheppey , Detling and Boxley , which he warranted to her with a condition that in default he would give her land in Stanstead , Kent , or Elinton , ' Suss.8 Richard de Petraponte of Sussex and Norfolk occurs temp . Richard and John . Richard de Petraponte and Matilda his wife granted 12d . a year rent to Matthew de Suldeham , among the witnesses being Robert de Petraponte and Simon his brother.10 Matilda de Petraponte was party to a plea in Sussex in 1194 , and in 1199 she impleaded a chaplain to show his warrant of entry on her fee in Roding , Essex.11 In the last - named year William de Petraponte was a suitor in a plea of land in Holwell and Stondon , Beds.12 In 1198 Robert de Petraponte had a plea with Adam de Poynings respecting right of pasturage in Suffolk , probably in Wrentham.1 Prior to July 1199 he attested with Adam de Poninges , Philip de Brunham and others a charter of Hamelin earl of Warenne and the countess Isabel his wife to the church of Melewode , a cell to Castleacre.14 


 13 


 
 
 Simon de Petraponte was a visor in a Shropshire plea in 1200.15 In 1206 Matilda de Berecamp and Ralph de Perepont her son re leased to Reginald de Trusanvill fee in Fletching , Suss . , with a third part of the advowson of the church . Land in Fletching appears to have descended to Master William de Perepunt , who had acquit tance of his relief in 1229.¹ 16 He sold land in Fletching , Barcombe and Bevendean , Suss . , to John de Gatesden , as stated at n . 2 . Robert de Petraponte lost the tenancy of the fishery of Totemere , Suff . , in 1203.¹ 17 He was a commissioner in 1213 in the diocese of Chichester to inquire of injuries done to the church during the late disturbances.18 


 
 
 In 1229 a carucate in Benacre , Suff . , and 30 acres 19 of land in Kessingland were claimed against Simon de Perepunt and 3 others , as tenants.20 John de Perepunt of Shropshire was named in 1231.21 In the following year Simon de Perepunt was claiming customs from his tenant in Benacre , Suff.22 In 1237 he was a collector of the thirtieth in Sussex.23 In 1238 he defended his claim to wreck of the sea in Sussex by prescription.24 In the following year he complained that the earl Warenne had made warren in his demesne lands of Hurstpierpoint and Goldbridge and would not permit the said Simon to take beasts of the chase ; afterwards Simon relinquished his claim.25 


 In 


 Simon was deceased before 7 October , 1240 , when custody of the lands late of Simon de Perepunt was restored to Hugh de Plaiz , who had made fine in 700 marks for custody of Simon's heir and his lands in Sussex and Suffolk.26 In 1247 certain of his lands , including land in Aldwick held of the bishop of Chichester , were in pledge to Jews ; the heir being still under age.27 1242-3 Simon de Petra Ponte ( or rather , the guardian of his heir ) held 10 fees in Hurstpierpoint and the members.28 Peter de Haut boys , brother and heir of William de Hautboys , conveyed to Guichard prior of St. Pancras , Lewes ( 1244-48 ) , and his monks lands inherited from his said brother in Hurstpierpoint , Suss . , with the reversion of the dower of Helewise relict of the said William , to hold for fee of the heirs of Simon de Perepont.29 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 349] ===
 
 
 HURSTPIERPOINT 333 


 
 
 Robert de Perepont , a constant adherent of the king and Edward his son , was taken in the battle of Lewes and kept in prison by Hugh le Despenser until he made fine by 700 marks for his ransom ; in 1265 the king ordered the obligations made by Waleran de Munceaux to secure this ransom to be returned to Robert or Waleran.30 In 1275 Robert had warren at Wrentham , Henstead and Benacre , Suff . , gallows at Benacre , and wreck of the sea as all his ancestors had from the conquest of England.³¹ 


 In 1284-5 Matilda de Perpunt , late wife of Robert de Perpunt , held Westmeston of the heirs ( sic ) of Simon her son , who held of the earl Warenne.32 At the same time Simon de Perpunt held Hurstpierpoint , 33 as he also did in 1288.34 


 In 1286 he defended his claim to liberties in Wrentham , Henstead and Benacre.35 In 1296 he and Mary his wife were parties to a fine of land in Benacre and Northales ( now Covehithe ) , Suff.36 In 1302-3 he held 1 fee in Wrentham.37 In 1313-14 he or his son put in a claim in a fine of land in Westhale in Benacre and the advowson of the church of Benacre.38 In 1316 Simon de Perepunt was returned as joint lord of Wrentham , Henstead and Benacre , Suff . , and Newick , Suss . , and lord of Hurstpierpoint.39 


 In 1317 Simon son of Simon de Perepount made acknowledgment to a citizen of London of a debt chargeable on his property in Sussex , 40 He was in the army of Scotland in 1323 with the earl Warenne.41 In 1324 he held of Aymer de Valence , earl of Pembroke , 2 fees in Wrentham and Covehithe ; two years later land in West meston was held of Simon de Perepunt.42 In 1331 the manor of Wrentham with its members was settled upon Simon de Perepunt , chivaler . 43 In that year Walter de Perepount ( whose son John was of Sussex in 1342 ) recovered his land of Howe which had been seized for his default against Simon de Perepount.44 


 This Simon and his tenants held 1 fee in Wrentham in 1346 of the earl Warenne ; apparently he held similarly fee in West meston.4 45 In 1354 confirmation was issued of a grant of William sometime earl Warenne granting licence for Simon de Perepount to enclose his wood of Daneghithe ( Dannay in Hurstpierpoint ) and attested by the abbots of Roche and Sawley , Sir Thomas Fitz - William and others ( 1215-1240 ) ; and of a grant of John de Warenne , earl of Surrey , dated at Stoke next Guildford on 10 January , 16 Edward III ( 1342 ) , granting to his bachelor , Sir Simon de Perepount , licence to enclose the wood of Dannay and the demesne lands adjoining , which were then parcel of the earl's free chase , so that Simon and his heirs might there have beasts , savage and others , as they would ; attested by Sir Michael de Poninges and 4 others , all chivalers.46 


 
 
 1. Round , Cal . of Docs . , France , n . 399 . 3. Brit . Mus . , Facsimiles of Chs . n . 25 . 199 ; Close R. 1247 , P. 513. 6. Cal . Chart . R. iii . 430 . ( P.R.S. xiv . ) , 44. 8. Feet of F. ( P.R.S. xx . ) , n . 113 . ii . A. 2950 , 2970 ; iii . A. 4133. 10. Vesp . F. xv . f . 255d . i . 71 , 439. 12. Ibid . 247 ; ii . 68. 13. Ibid . iii . 35 . 16. Pat . R. 273. 17 . Feet of F. , Suss . n . 11O . 


 72 . 15. R. Cur . Reg . ii . 169 . 18. R. Lit. Claus . i . 164b . 19 . 


 
 
 3 


 4 


 
 
 2. Watson , Warren Fam . i . 92 . 4. Ibid . n . 31 . 5. Red Bk . 7. R. Cur . Reg . 9. Cat . of Anct . D. 11. R. Cur . Reg . 14. Mon. Angl . v . Abbrev . Placit . 44b . 20. Close R. 253 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 350] ===
 
 
 334 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 21. Ibid . 558 . 


 24. Bracton's Note - Bk . 26. Ibid . 229 ; 


 n . 1272 . 25 . Cal . Pat . R. 267 . of Anct . D. iv . A. 7210 . 


 22. Ibid . 132. 23. Close R. 546 . Feet of F. , Suss . n . 353 ; Close R. 434 . 27. Close R. 513. 28. Bk . of Fees , 690. 29. Cat . 30. Cal . Pat . R. 464 , 492. 31. R. Hund . ii . 148 . 


 32. Feud . Aids , v . 130 . 35. Placit . de quo war . 724 . Aids , v . 59 . 


 33. Ibid . 129 . 34. Feet of F. , Suss . n . 999 . 36. Feet of F. , Suff . 24 Edw . I. 37. Feud . 38. Feet of F. , Suff . 7 Edw . II . 39. Feud . Aids , v . 39-40 , 136-7 . 40. Cal . Close R. 461. 41. Cal . Pat . R. 237. 42. Cal . Inquis . 


 44. Cal . Close R. 392 . 


 
 
 vi . 331 , 438. 43. Feet of F. , Suff . 5 Edw . III . 45. Feud . Aids , v . 59-60 , 161. 46. Cal . Pat . R. 18 . 


 
 
 V. 


 In Sussex Hugh ( son of Golda ) held of William de Warenne in 1086 in Iford 2 hides , Rottindean 2 hides , Waningore 3 hides , Beeding 3 virgates , Allington 2 hides . 


 Surveyed under Surrey , Worth , Suss . , was held by Siward of Richard ( de Tonbridge ) , being assessed at 


 hide . 


 In Norfolk Hugh ( son of Golda ) held of William de Warenne in Threxton I carucate , Barsham 4 carucates . 


 
 
 In Suffolk Hugh son of Golda held ( as above ) in Barnham 1 carucate and 4 acres ; Hugh similarly held in Clopton I carucate . Humphrey son of Roderic held similarly in Rattlesden 100 acres of land.¹ 


 
 
 In Norfolk some part of the land held by William de Warenne in Gayton , Methwold , Northwold ( n . 3 ) , Feltwell , Weeting 5 caru cates , Tofts ( Rockland St. Peter ) , Fransham 1 carucates , held by Gilbert ( ancestor of ' de Fransham ' ) , Scarning 1 carucate , held by Gilbert , Barnham Broom 2 carucates and 6 acres , West Bradenham 30 acres , Shereford 1 carucate and Sidestrand I carucate and 21 acres , belonged to the fee held by Plaiz . 


 ، 


 Hugh son of Golda gave to the monks of Lewes the church of Iford , Suss . , with tithes there and in Slaugham , Kingston and Rottingdean . Hugh son of Hugh son of Golda gave to the same monks the churches of Shereford and Tofts , Norf . , and 2 hides at Pacheleswye , Suss . , 2 a place named in 1250 as via que vocatur Palchinges weye , ' and again in 1262 , when the prior of Lewes obtained an acknowledgment of his right in 2 hides in Pacheleswy.3 The place was apparently somewhere between Lewes and Brighton . In 1121 Ralph archbishop of Canterbury confirmed to Lewes priory inter alia the church of Iford and land called ' Piceleswia . ' 4 


 
 
 The connexion between these donors to Lewes priory and their successor , Hugh de Plaiz , is not known . In 1147 pope Eugenius confirmed to the prior of Huntingdon the church of Weeting and in Feltwell , Norf . , 6 solidates of land of the gift of Hugh de Plaiz.5 A charter of William earl of Warenne of the period 1145–1146 was attested by Ralph de Plaiz ( Pleiz ) , who also attested a charter of Reginald de Warenne which is ascribed to 1148-49.6 Ralph de Plaiz granted to Lewes the church of Iford , Suss . , and those of Tofts and Shereford , Norf . , whatever he had in the church of Feltwell and land there ; he also confirmed what his ancestors had given . " William 3rd earl of Warenne confirmed Ralph's gifts.8 


 Ralph de Plaiz II was named on the sheriff of Norfolk's roll 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 351] ===
 
 
 IFORD , BARSHAM 335 


 
 
 of 1177,9 and 2 years later ' Bernham ' of Ralph de Plaiz was . amerced.10 In 1185 John son of Robert owed 2 marks for the right offee in Weeting , Norf . , against Ralph de Plaiz.11 In 1197 Ralph de Plaiz granted to Matilda de Dive and Hugh her son the mill pool and watercourse of Wapsbourne ( Weplesburn ' ) flowing to Sheffield . 12 In 1194 there had been a plea between John L'Estrange ( Extraneus ) and Ralph de Plaiz touching land in Bernham , › 13 which was later continued against Ralph Le Neveu.¹4 This was settled by fine in 1197 , subject to the due service being done to Ralph de Plaiz.15 The pleadings disclose the fact that one Hugh de Plaiz had given the land of Barnham , Suff . , with his daughter Helewise in marriage to Ralph son of Herlewin , who gave it temp . Henry II to the monks of Thetford , 16 and whose son , Reginald le Brun , afterwards held it . This Reginald was maternal uncle of John L'Estrange father of John L'Estrange the demandant in the plea.17 This identifies Hugh de Plaiz with the Hugh first above - named and carries him back to the fourth generation from John L'Estrange , the demandant in 1194 , so that it is possible . that Hugh de Plaiz and Hugh son of Golda , or Hugh son of the said Hugh , may be the same person . It is , however , more probable that they were contemporaries only . In 1198 Roger de Scures quitclaimed to Ralph de Plaiz 2 natives of Fratton , Hants.18 


 In the year 1212 Hugh de Plaiz held 7 hides in Little Barford , Oxon . , which had been given to Richard de Meri in augmentation of his barony at the conquest ( sic ) of England for his service , and he had given them to Enjugier de Bohun in frank - marriage , and he the said Enjugier gave them to the ancestor of Hugh de Plaiz . 19 See Arundel , n . 15. In 1201 Ralph de Plaiz held fee in Newington , Oxon . , and fee in Acrinton and Newington , of Roger son of Fukerel and he of William de Clinton.20 


 4 


 
 
 Ralph de Plaiz was living in November 1204 , when he had licence to make his peace with Baldwin de Akenny.21 Apparently he died soon afterwards . 


 
 
 In 1215 10 librates of land late of Hugh de Plaiz in Portsea , Hants . , were committed to the king's bailee.22 In the following year the king forbad Henry Belet to receive to the king's peace , until he received further direction , Hugh de Plaiz , Michael de Puninges , William de Stutevill , William de Mortemer , Adam de Cailli and Ralph de Clere.23 In 1217 Hugh de Plaiz , knight of the earl of Warenne , returned to allegiance and recovered seisin of his lands.24 Some years later the manor of Feltwell , Norf . , of Philippa de Plaiz ( wife of Hugh ) , was extended ; the land held by scutage was worth £ 13 14s . 7d . yearly ; that held in socage was worth 30s . 10d.25 


 
 
 In 1240 , while divorce between Beatrice de Fay and Hugh de Plaiz was in process , the sheriffs of Surrey and Sussex were directed to provide for her by giving her possession of 20 librates of land in each county of her dower of the estate of Hugh de Nevill ( d . 1234 ) , her late husband.26 In the ensuing year Hugh had livery of her land in Surrey , she being under sentence of excom munication for contumacy.27 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 352] ===
 
 
 336 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 In 1242-3 Hugh held 7 fees in Iford and Wapsbourne ( in Fletching ) , Suss . , the following tenements in Sussex , Norfolk and Suffolk being held of him as of the honor of Warenne : 


 
 
 Roger de Ratlesden fee in Rattlesden , Suff . 2 


 Alice late wife of William de Creppinges fee in Wang ford , Suff . , of Bartholomew de Stanham , who held of the earl Warenne . 


 
 
 William de Wadington fee in Barnham , Suff.28 Richard de Nerford fee in Wreningham , Norf . Philip de Haskeby fee in Tunstall , Norf . 29 


 
 
 Hugh de Plaiz was founder of the priory of Broomhill , Norf . , which he endowed with a moiety of Croxton , a member of Weeting.30 He died in 1244 , the service of his fees having been assigned in 1240 in dower to countess Matilda ( Marshal ) , wife of William late earl of Warenne.31 Prior to 1228 he married Philippa sister and in her issue coheir of Richard de Munfichet , by whom he had a son Richard de Plaiz ; his second wife was Beatrice de Fay named above , and at his decease his third wife Alice survived him . In 1256 she demanded against Richard de Plaiz a third part of the manors of Worth , Chailey , Kingston , Barcombe , Iford , Wanin gore . and Wapsbourne , Suss . , of the manor of Leye , Kent , and of the manors of Weeting , Feltwell , Tofts and Brisley , Norf .; whereupon Richard satisfied her.32 In the same year Richard de Plaiz had respite of knighthood.33 


 
 
 Richard de Munfichet died at the end of 1267 , when his inherit ance was divided between the issue of his 3 sisters . To Richard de Plaiz , his nephew and coheir , being son of his sister Philippa , were assigned the manor of Great Oakley , Essex , with the advowson of the church , Bentfield and 10 librates of land in Stansted Montfichet , So acres of wood in the park of Stansted , the park of Alsieshay , 7 fees held by George Bakon , Richard de Houbrugg , the prioress of Stratford , Giles de Argentein , Luke de Poninges , Adam de Cokfeld , John de Cherebrok , the abbess of Stratford , Robert de Malteby , the earl of Athol and the heirs of Robert le Buteler ; for this he gave security for the relief due for a third part of a barony and had seisin in May 1268.34 He was then aged 40 years.35 He lived but little more than a year to enjoy this inheritance , dying at the beginning of July 1269 , when he held lands of the honor of Warenne in the places named above ( 1256 ) , including rents in Blatchington , Withdean and Kingston , Suss . , also the manor of Weeting , Norf . , the advowson of the churches of Weeting and Croxton , rents in Santon , Croxton and Shipdham , I fee in Rattlesden held by Sir Roger de Ratlesdene , fee in Barn ham , fee in Northwood , fee in Methwold , and fee in Runhall , all held as of the manor of Weeting ; also the manor of Knapton with the advowson and fee in Sidestrand held by Adam de Poninges belonging to the said manor , all being held of the honor of Warenne ; he also held the manors of Great Oakley and Bent field , Essex , with 9 knights ' fees pertaining to his Munfichet inheritance ; Ralph his son was aged 3 years . The wardship of 


 36 


 
 
 1 


 3 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 353] ===
 
 
 IFORD , BARSHAM 337 


 
 
 the heir and his land was granted to Robert Aguillon.37 Joan late wife of Richard de Plaiz had licence in 1271 to marry whom she would.38 


 In 1275 the heirs of Richard de Plaiz held a 4th part of Feltwell , the whole vill of Weeting and a moiety of Croxton of the earl of Warenne ; they claimed assize of bread etc. in Wilton with Luke de Poininges ; 39 Alice de Plaiz had her leet in Tofts and Shereford , and warren in the wood of West Rys.40 The said heirs , who were in the custody of Robert Aguillon , had view of frank - pledge and other liberties in their fee of Knapton ; 41 in Grimshow hundred ; Robert son and heir of Richard de Plaiz had gallows and other liberties in Weeting ; Alice de Plaiz had assize etc. in Feltwell.4 Similar returns were made from the honor of Munfichet in Essex and Cambridgeshire . Partition of the knights ' fees of the said honor , late of Aveline des Forz , was made in 1276 between the coparceners , Isabel relict of Richard de Plaiz receiving her share of dower thereof.43 


 42 


 
 
 Ralph de Plaiz died in 1283,44 custody of his land and the marriage of his heirs being granted in the ensuing year to queen Eleanor , saving to Isabel relict of Ralph her dower.4 45 The manor of Iford was assigned to her in dower with other lands.46 In 1284-5 Chailey , Suss . , was in the king's hands by reason of custody of Giles de Plaiz.47 The heir was still a minor in 1288 , when the king presented to the church of Barrington , Cambs.48 The date . when Giles de Plaiz succeeded has not been recorded , but it was prior to 1293 , when he had acquittance of the common summons of the eyre in Kent.49 He was evidently younger brother of Ralph , who was born in 1266 . 


 
 
 Giles de Plaiz defended his right to certain liberties on the barony of Munfichet in 1299 ; 50 he died in 1302,51 holding the manors of Wanningore and Wapsbourn with the advowsons of Worth , Chailey , and of the free chapel of Wanningore ; in Norfolk a hall and lands in Weeting and the same in Tofts ; in Suffolk the manor of Le Wodehall in Rattlesden held by Simon [ son of Adam ] de Rattlesden for 1 fee and the manor of Barnham held by Ralph [ James ] de Schirle for fee ; pertaining to the manors of Weeting and Feltwell were the following knights ' fees in Norfolk : 52 William de Fransham I fee in Fransham and Scarning . John de Geyton fee in Gayton . fee in North Barsham . 


 4 


 John le Sire William Maupas Ralph atte Rode 


 fee in West Bradenham . 


 ( William le Marshal I fee in Sparham . ) 


 Constantine de Mortemer 


 
 
 fee in Barnham Broom . 


 
 
 Ranulf de Hakeford 


 ( William de Blunvill ( of William le Marshal in 1302 ) 1 fee called Creppyngefe in Deopham . ) 


 ( Roger Cosyn 1 fee in Deopham and Lit. Ellingham . ) 


 John le Boteler fee in Northwold . 


 The advowsons of St. Mary's and All Saints ' in Weeting and the church of Croxton . 


 
 
 III . N 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 354] ===
 
 
 338 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 Besides these lands Giles held the manor of East and West Ham , Essex , with knights ' fees belonging to the barony of Munfichet ; Richard his son was aged 7 years . 53 


 
 
 The 3 fees in Sparham , Deopham and Little Ellingham did not belong to the honor of Warenne.54 In the returns to the aid of 1302-3 in Essex , John Marmion was said to hold the manor of Great Oakley , Essex , of Richard son and heir of Giles de Plaiz , a minor in the king's wardship.55 


 
 
 Dower was assigned to Joan his relict in 1306 , and custody of his lands to queen Margaret . 56 During the heir's minority the king presented in 1309 to St. Mary's , Weeting , and in 1310 to the church of Chailey.57 


 
 
 In 1316 Giles ( sic ) de Plaiz was one of the joint lords of Worth , Suss . In 1317 Richard de Plaiz , son and heir of Giles , having proved his age , had seisin of his father's lands.58 


 
 
 In 1324 Richard de Plaiz and his tenants held of Aymer de Valence , earl of Pembroke , 3 fees in Weeting , Knapton , Toftes - rys , Shereford , Feltwell , Fransham , Baconsthorpe , Barnham , Broom , Gayton , Sparham , Sidestrand , South Bradenham , Barsham , Loddon , Deopham and ( South ) Creake . 59 The tenements in Baconsthorpe , Sparham , Loddon , Deopham and South Creake did not belong to the honor of Warenne . 


 Richard de Plaiz died in 1327 holding the manor of Iford with its members of Wanningore , Wapsbourn and Worth of the earl of Warenne , and two - thirds of the manor of Weeting of the countess of Pembroke . To this manor were appurtenant the following fees : 


 
 
 William de Houvill fee in Constantine de Mortemer 


 Northwold ; 


 Welborne ; 


 } 


 Heirs of John de Mountcorbyn fee in Barnham and 


 1 


 Thomas de Ponynges fee in Sidestrand ; Geoffrey de Fransham I fee in Fransham and Scarning ; Ralph de Shirle fee in Barnham by Thefford , Suff .; 


 John de Ratlesden 1 fee called Le Wodehall in Rattlesden , 


 Suff . 


 Margaret wife of Richard survived ; Giles his son was aged 7 years.60 Custody of the heir's lands was granted to Gilbert Talbot , king's chamberlain , 61 and dower was duly assigned to the widow . 62 


 
 
 Giles de Plaiz the heir died in his minority on 10 July , 1334 ; Richard his younger brother attained his age in 1344 , when he had livery of his inheritance.63 


 
 
 1. Ing . Com . Cantab . 193 . 2. Watson , Earls of Warren , i . 95–7 . 3. Feet of F. , Suss . nos . 515 , 670. 4. Anct . Chs . ( P.R.S. x . ) , 12. 5. Mon. Angl . vi . 8ob . 6. Brit . Mus . , Facsimiles of Chs . nos . 25 , 31. 7. Cal . of Bodleian Chs . 558. 8. Chartul . of Lewes , f . 33 , 1156 , 257b . 9. Pipe R. 23 Hen . II , 134. 10. Ibid . 25 Hen . II , 7 . 11. Ibid . 31 Hen . II , 40 . 12. Feet of F. ( Pipe R. Soc . xx . ) , 139 . 13. Curia Regis R. ( P. R. Soc . xiv . ) , 10. 14. R. Cur . Regis , i . 20 . 16. Mon. Anglic . v . 143 . 


 15. Feet of F. ( P. R. Soc . xxiii . ) , 72 . 17. R. Cur . Regis , i . 20 ; Abbrev . Placit . 5 . Testa , 1346 . 20. Abbrev . Placit . 65-66 ; 21. Pat . R. 476 . 22. R. Lit. Claus . 


 19 . 


 18. R. Cur . Reg . iii . 36 . R. Cur . Reg . iii . 216 , 258 , 377 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 355] ===
 
 
 BARCOMBE , HIGH RODING 339 


 
 
 i . 2366 . 


 23. Ibid . 250. 24. Ibid . 31ob . 


 25. Cal . Misc . Inq . i . 551 . 


 26. Close R. 190 , 272. 27. Excerpt . Fin . i . 355. 28. Bk . of Fees , 919 . 29. Ibid . 905-6 . 30. R. Hund . i . 439 . 31. Excerpt . Fin . i . 421 , 427 . 32. Feet of F. , Suss . n . 607 . 33. Cal . Pat . R. 483 . 34. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 470-1 . 35. Cal . Inquis . i . 218. 36. Ibid . i . 226. 37. Cal . Pat . R. 348 . 38. Ibid . 507 . 39. R. Hund . i . 438. 40. Ibid . 4526 , 535b . 41. Ibid . 496b , 516b . 42. Ibid . 5426. 43. Cal . Close R. 420 , 422 ; ibid . 1284 , PP . 253 , 279 . 44. Cal . Fine R. i . 194 . 45. Cal . Pat . R. 113 . 46. Cal . Close R. 252-3 . 47. Feud . Aids , v . 130. 48. Cal . Pat . R. 296 . 49. Cal . Close R. 310. 50. Placit . de quo war . 100b . 51. Cal . Inquis . iv . 80 , 81. 52. Cf. Feud . Aids , iii . 416 , 426 , 445 ; v . 30 , 53. Cal . Inquis . iv . 80. 54. See Giffard , n . 46 ; Cal . Inquis . i . 8 . 55. Feud . Aids , ii . 129 . 56. Cal . Close R. 460 , 300. 57. Cal . Pat . R. 117 , 282 . 58. Cal . Close R. 498 ; Cal . Inquis . vi . 80. 59. Cal . Inquis . vi . 330. 60. Cal . Inquis . vii . 26 . 62. Cal . Close R. 174 , 230 . 63. Cal . Inquis . viii . 356 ; 


 73 . 


 61. Cal . Pat . R. 159 . Cal . Close R. 419 . 


 
 
 VI . 


 In Sussex William de Watevill in 1086 held of William de Warenne in Brighton 5 hides with a church , Hangleton 8 hides , Perching 5 hides , Keymer 14 hides , Barcombe 10 hides . 


 The wife of William de Watevill held of William de Warenne in Clayton 7 hides with a church and in Wickham 3 hides held of her by Alwin . 


 In Essex William de Watevill held of William de Warenne in ( High ) Roding 2 hides . 


 1 


 William de Watevill probably came from Watteville on the Seine below Rouen . He appears to have resigned his English lands or to have died shortly after the date of the survey . Possibly he or a descendant was the donor of the church of Croismere to the abbey of Jumieges . Henry I , in or about 1115 , confirmed to St. Pancras of Lewes the gift of William de Warenne , earl of Surrey , of the churches of Brighton , Hangleton , Barcombe and Clayton , and the chapel of Keymer.2 The earl's gift was made not much later than 1106 ; possibly long before . William de Warenne II also confirmed the church of Roding with 1 virgate of land , and tithes of the hall demesne , ³ which his father had given at his death . 


 
 
 The lands described above were in part granted to new tenants . As to Hangleton see n . 13 , Perching n . 9. Keymer and Clayton were mainly retained in the demesne of the earls ; as also was High Roding in Essex , which became the caput of the Warenne fee in that county . The Great Inquest of Service records in 1212 that the earl of Warenne held ( High ) Roding for 13 knights ' fees . * 


 Lands of the Domesday fee of William de Watevill in Sussex may be traced as follows . Reginald de Bercam was a suitor for Henry Hose in a Sussex plea in 1196.5 Two years later Ralph de Stapelford sought that Matilda de Bercamp should take his homage for his free tenement in Roding and that of Robert de Insula for a tenement there . " In 1200 there was an assize of mort d'ancestor between Robert Trehan , a minor , and Robert Painard respecting 


 fee in Barcombe . In the same year there was a plea of a fine levied between Matilda de Bercamp and Reginald de Trussanvill . 8 In 1206 a fine was levied between the said Reginald , complainant , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 356] ===
 
 
 340 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 and Matilda de Bercamp and Ralph de Pierepont her son , tenants , respecting a moiety of fee in Fletching . See n . 4 . 


 9 


 Again , in 1204 , 4 librates of land in Barcombe of the Normans ' lands were committed to the king's bailee , and in the ensuing year the sheriff of Sussex was directed to give to Philip de Aubigny seisin of the land of Barcombe late of Robert Pennard which was of Philip's fee.10 It is suggested that the land of Ralph de Pierpont in Barcombe descended to William de Pierpont , who held the prebend of Bridgenorth ( ? ) until 1215,11 and before 1242 sold his lands in Barcombe , Bevendean and Fletching , Suss . , and Rougham , Norf . , to John de Gatesden.12 In 1233 there had been a fine of land in Rougham between Richard son of Martin and Master William de Perepunt.13 In the time of Gregory IX ( 1227-41 ) Walter rector of Barcombe acknowledged the right of the prior of Lewes to two parts of the hay tithes from the demesnes of dame Milisent de Munfichet and of Master William de Perepunt in Barcombe.14 In 1242-3 John de Gatesden held 3 fees in Barcombe and fee in Ditchling , and in Surrey jointly with John de Albernun I fee in Fetcham , all of the honor of Warenne.15 


 
 
 John de Gatesden married in or after 1246 Hawise late wife of John de Nevill 16 the forester , lord of Stoke Curcy . See Curcy , n . 17 . He died in 1262 , when Hawise his wife had the manor of Bradford , Som . , for her dower ; 17 Fletching , Barcombe and Bevendean were part of his extensive possessions . 18 Another John de Gatesden , styled the younger , had died on 25 November , 1258 , holding Gaddesden , Herts . , and various manors in Sussex ( not of Warenne fee ) and Bedford , and leaving Margaret his daughter , aged 13 on St. Vincent's day , 1259.19 In that year Margery late wife of John . de Gatesden ( the younger ) and Richard de Gatesden gave 60 marks for custody of the lands lately held by the said John of the king in chief . The said Margery had lands in Hertfordshire and Bedfordshire . 20 The estates descended in another line of Gatesden.21 


 
 
 In 1269 the king gave the wardship of 200 marks of the elder John's land and the marriage of his daughter and heir to Robert Walerand , saving the dower of Hawise his wife.22 The said Hawise held many manors belonging to the heir at her death , possibly in 1269.23 In 1268 she gave William de Braose 96 marks . for acquittance of certain services due in respect of 8 fees of the honor of Bramber in Broadwater and other places to her , as Hawise de Nevill , and to the heirs of John de Gatesden , formerly her husband.24 The grant of the wardship of the heir gave trouble , for it appears that soon after 1258 Margaret daughter and heir of John de Gatesden became the wife of John de Camoys , 25 and that her father had given in frank marriage with his said daughter a moiety of the manor of Lasham , Hants . The contract of marriage at least must therefore have been made by 1262. Camoys alienated the land , it was said , to Robert Walerand ( the king's grantee ) , who gave it in exchange to the Master of St. Nicholas's , Portsmouth , and in 1319 Ralph Camoys claimed it back and it was awarded to him.26 John de Camoys died in 1298 , Ralph his son being of full age . 27 In 1316 Ralph was one of the lords of Barcombe.28 


 At 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 357] ===
 
 
 BARCOMBE , HIGH RODING 341 


 
 
 his death in 1335 his holding descended to his son Hugh Camoys . In 1412 this manor was held for fee , valued at £ 5 only.29 


 Another manor in Barcombe descended in the line of Warenne of Wormegay to the Bardolfs . In 1241 William Bardolf granted an easement to the prior of Lewes for the latter's mill adjoining land in Barcombe , Hugh de Plaiz being a consenting party . In the claim of Alice late wife of Hugh de Plaiz 30 in 1256 for her dower against Richard de Plaiz , a manor in Barcombe was included , as one of her late husband's tenements 31 ( n . 5 ) . This appears to have been the third manor in that place . 


 William Bardolf held a manor there at his decease in 1276 , as shewn at Warenne , n . 20. This descended to his son William , at whose death , in 1294 , it was assigned in dower to his widow Isabel , as of the yearly value of £ 17 12s . 4d.32 Isabel late wife of Hugh Bardolf held it at her death in 1323 as of the inheritance of Thomas Bardolf her son , 33 to whom it then passed.³4 He died in 1329 holding the manors of Barcombe and Fletching jointly with Agnes his wife , who survived , except the capital messuage of the manor of Barcombe with the wood and the plat within the great dyke newly made , of which Thomas died seised , having held it of the earl of Warenne.35 His relict Agnes continued in possession of these manors , 36 which were in 1363 in the wardship of queen Philippa with the honor of Wormegay and other Bardolf manors , late of John Bardolf , knt . , during the minority of the heir.37 


 William Bardolf held Barcombe in 1412 as I knight's fee , worth £ 15 yearly.38 


 
 
 The family of Combe had an interest in Barcombe . In 1220 Richard de Combe ( Cumba ) claimed land in Surrey by descent from Osbert his grandfather.39 In 1233 Richard de Combe brought a plea of disseisin against the earl of Warenne and William de Monceux concerning tenements in Barcombe and ' Laweland . ' 40 In 1239 prior Albert and the convent of Lewes took all tithes of corn from the ancient demesnes of Richard de Combe within the parish of Westham , Suss.41 


 
 
 The tenure of High Roding , Essex , by the earls of Warenne is illustrated by the following notices . In 1224 the earl had a royal gift of 6 oaks from Hatfield park for the repair of his houses at Roding , 42 and in the same year a recognition was to be made whether a virgate in the earl of Warenne's Roding was alms of the church of Roding or the lay fee of Geoffrey Biendene ; 43 the finding was in favour of the church.44 In 1226 a plea of land in Roding between the earl and William Bardolf was put in respite for a month.45 Three years later Bardolf quitclaimed the manor of Roding Bardulf to the earl for an exchange in Piddinghoe , Suss . , 46 as noted at n . 2. Again in 1228 the earl had 10 oaks from Hatfield to be used for enclosing his park of Roding . In 1231 the earl's market at Roding was to be held in the future on Monday.47 


 In 1235-6 the collectors of the aid accounted in Essex for 101 fees ( alibi II fees ) of the earl of Warenne.48 In 1240 the manor of Roding , Essex , and Methwold , Norf . , were assigned in dower to Matilda late wife of William earl of Warenne.49 


 In 1251 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 358] ===
 
 
 342 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 John de Warenne had a royal gift of 10 does and 5 bucks from the forest of Hatfield for restocking his park of Roding.50 In 1255 he had a grant of market and fair at Roding . 51 In an inquiry made in 1276 as to the value of the earl of Surrey's markets and fairs it was presented that the earl's market at Roding often failed and that toll was not exacted . 52 


 
 
 In 1303 the earl held the manor of High Roding . 53 In 1314 he granted to Edmund earl of Arundel the reversion at his death of the manors of Roding , Woolston , Housham ( Hall ) , Prittlewell and Margaretting , Essex . 54 In 1321 the earl of Arundel settled . these manors on himself and Alice his wife.55 In 1328 , after the said Edmund's forfeiture , John de Warenne , earl of Surrey , regained possession of these manors . 56 This was a measure of security . In 1345 Richard earl of Arundel was nominally in possession of those manors with Little Canfield , Essex , and Isabel la Despensere held them for her life.57 


 
 
 The particulars of the 13 ( or less ) knights ' fees held with the manor of Roding are nowhere recorded . 


 
 
 1. Mon. Angl . vi . 1087b . 2. Anct . Chs . ( P.R.S. x . ) , 5- 3. Vesp . F. XV . f . 13 . 4. Red Bk . 498 . 5. R. Cur . Reg . ( P.R.S. xxiv . ) , 243 . 6. Ibid . ii . 199 . 7. Ibid . iii . 230 , 290 . 8. Ibid . 311 . 9. Feet of F. , Suss . n . IIO . 10. R. Lit. Claus . i . 14 , 27 . 11. R. Lit. Pat . 126 . 12. Cal . Chart . R. i . 265. 13. Feet of F. , Norf . 17 Hen . III . 14. Vesp . F. xv . f . 122d . 15. Testa , 220 , 222b . 16. Close R. 515 ; Cal . Pat . R. 483 , 487. 17. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 370 , 377 , 384 . 18. Cal Inquis i . 223 . 19. Cal . Inquis . i 126. 20. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 316 , 326. 21. V.C.H. Beds . iii . 406 . 22. Cal . Inquis . i . 224. 23. Ibid . 223 , 300 . 24. Suss . Feet of F. n . 730 . 25. Ibid . nos . 766 , 904 , 916 . 26. Abbrev . Placit . 334 . 27. Cal . Fine R. i . 349 , 400. 28. Feud . Aids , v . 136 . 29. Ibid . vi . 521 . 31. Ibid . n . 607 . 32. Cal . Close R. 227 . 34. Cal . Close R. 22. 35. Cal . Inquis . vii . 175 . 37. Cat . of Anct . D. i . C.758 . 38. Feud . Aids , Note - Bk . n . 113. 40. Close R. 331. 41. Cat . 42. R. Lit. Claus . i . 581. 43. Pat . R. 485 . Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 1025. 45. R. Lit. Claus . 47. Close R. 55 , 506. 48. Bk . of Fees , 50. Ibid . 517 . 51. Cal . Chart . R. i . 449 . Feud . Aids , ii . 152. 54. Cal . Pat . R. 175 . 57. Ibid . 488 . 


 30. Feet of F. , Suss . n . 383 . 33. Cal . Inquis . vi . 272 . 36. Cal . Close R. 10 . vi . 525 . 39. Bracton's of Anct . D. iv . A. 8010 . 44. Feet of F. , Essex , 69 ; ii . III . 46. Feet of F. , Suss . 86 . 488 , 900. 49. Close R. 212 . 52. Cal . Misc . Ing . i . 316. 53 . 55. Ibid . 600. 56. Ibid . 336 . 


 
 
 VII . 


 In 1086 in Cambridgeshire Nicholas ( de Kenet ) held of William de Warenne in Kennet 2 hides . 


 In Suffolk the same Nicholas held of William de Warenne in Elvedon 2 carucates , Herringswell 40 acres , Tunstall 1 carucate and 20 acres . 


 In Norfolk William de Warenne held in Banham 1 carucate and 31 acres . 


 In Sussex land in Twineham , unrecorded in the Survey , formed part of this fee . 


 The tenant of William de Warenne in Kennet is described in the Inquisitio Comitatus Cantabrigiensis as Nicholas de Kenet . From Nicholas descended Nicholas de Kenet , who was amerced 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 359] ===
 
 
 KENNET , ELVEDON 343 


 
 
 40s . in 1160 for a default in Cambridgeshire.¹ Nicholas de Kenet in 1161 gave the monks of Sibton all his land between the roads leading to the fords of Kennet and Freckenham as fully as his father and he had held the same , with right in the common pasture beyond the river . The monks forgave him all he owed them and the injury he had done , and promised mark rent , which was to be paid to his wife Emma as part of her dower.2 In 1169 William Giffard was amerced 40s . for disseisin done to Nicholas de Kenet in Suffolk . For later references to this family see Feudal Cam bridgeshire , 148-9 . 


 3 


 6 


 Nicholas de Kenet and Peter his son attested a charter of Hamelin earl of Warenne made temp . Richard I. He was constable of Bolsover castle in 1209.5 He attested a royal charter at Rocking ham in 1208 , but in 1215 , being against the king , 20 librates of his land in Lamberhurst , Kent , were given to the king's bailees , " as also was his land in Shelsley , Worcs . In 1217 he returned to allegiance and had writs of reseisin to the sheriffs of Worcester , Norfolk , Suffolk , Bedford , Cambridge and Kent . In 1225 William de Beauchamp recovered against Nicholas de Kenet the manor of Shelsley Beauchamp , Worcs . , which the king had given to the said Nicholas with Isabel mother of the said William in marriage , and she was deceased without issue by Nicholas.9 His name appears on the commission for taking up knighthood and arms in 1230 for Cambridgeshire and Huntingdonshire , but was imme diately cancelled.10 He probably died shortly after , for in 1232 Peter de Kenet was impleading 4 persons for a tenement in Banham , Norf.11 


 I 


 In 1236 Nicholaa ( ? ) de Kenet held 3 hides in Kennet , Cambs . , of William de Warenne for 1 fee.12 In 1240 the service of Peter de Kenet of 4 fees , which he lately did to the earl of Warenne , was assigned to the dower of the countess of Warenne.13 In 1242-3 Peter de Kenet held of this honor 1 fee in Kennet , ¹4 and 2 fees in Twineham , Suss.15 ; John de Seyncler and Richard de Crungelthorpe fee in Elvedon of the same Peter ; Peter son of Richard and Edmund de Suhethfee in Barton ( Mills ) and Herringswell of the same Peter.16 Nicholaa de Kenet held in the name of dower fee in Lamberhurst , Kent , of the honor of Crevequer.17 


 
 
 In 1258 a fine of land in Blakenham , Suff . , was levied between Richard de Kenet and Nicholas de Kenet.18 Possibly this was the Nicholas who was party with Joan his wife to a fine of land in Marston Moretaine , Beds . , in 1254.19 He may have been of the Montfort party , for before November 1266 he enfeoffed Hugh le Bigod , justiciar of England , of the manor of Kennet 20 with the members . 


 
 
 In 1276 Roger le Bigod , earl Marshal , was in possession of Kennet , 21 and in 1279 he held the entire vill with Kennetsford of the earl of Warenne for 21 fees with gallows and free warren.22 In 1285 Peter de Kenet passed the manor by fine to the earl Marshal , 23 who held in 1303 in Kennet 21 fees of the earl of Warenne ; 24 in Herringswell , Ellen la Blunde and Richard de 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 360] ===
 
 
 344 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 A 


 
 
 ¥ 


 1 


 4 


 Suthale held of the earl Marshal fee and Giles de Gelham similarly held fee in Elvedon.25 In Banham , Norf . , John de Grey held 1 fee of the earl of Warenne.26 Nicholas de Kenet was living in 1298 , when he held land in Little Blakenham , Suff . 27 


 
 
 In 1276 the earl Marshal had pledged certain manors , including Kennet , to the king as security for a debt of £ 943 ; they were restored in the following year , 28 but the earl Marshal's surrender of the same manors was not cancelled by the king until 1291.29 At his death in 1306 the earl held jointly with Alice his wife , by the king's charter made in 1302 , the manor of Kennet ; but having no issue all his lands reverted to the king by the form of the earl's feoffment.30 Kennet was delivered to Alice the earl's relict for life with reversion to the king.31 In 1312 the king gave the late earl Marshal's castles and manors to his brother , Thomas Planta genet , called ' de Brotherton , ' excepting the dower lands of Alice as above.32 On 1 January , 1319 , the earl of Surrey enfeoffed Thomas earl of Lancaster of 4 chief manors in Norfolk with 391 knights ' fees , in Suffolk 2 knights ' fees , and in Kennet and Kennets ford , Cambs . and Suff . , Banham , Norf . , Elvedon , Suff . , and Twineham , Suss . , 4 fees , subject to the earl of Surrey's life estate therein.33 After the forfeiture of earl Thomas these fees were given to Aymer de Valence , earl of Pembroke , at whose decease in 1324 Thomas de Brotherton , earl Marshal , was returned as holding of him 4 fees in the places named above , except in one of two returns , where Herringswell and Hundon , Suff . , were substi tuted for Elvedon.34 Two years later these 4 fees were assigned to the pourparty of David de Strabolgi , earl of Athol , and Joan his wife , kinswoman and coheiress of the earl of Pembroke.35 The earl of Athol died in 1327 seised of the same 4 fees which the earl Marshal held of him ; David de Athol his son was aged 20 years.36 On the death of the earl Marshal the manor of Kennet , extended at £ 23 75. , was in 1338 assigned in dower to Mary his relict 37 ; in the following year , subject to the dower of the said Alice , the lands late of Roger le Bigod , earl Marshal , were confirmed to Edward de Montacute , who had married Alice second daughter and coheir of Thomas de Brotherton.3 38 


 
 
 In 1346 Margaret countess Marshal held Kennet for 2½ fees of the honor of Warenne ; 39 Anselm le Marshal held 1 fee in Banham of the said countess as of the same honor ; 40 the abbess of Marham , John de Norwich and others held fee in Herringswell of the same countess , who held by reason of minority of Thomas son and heir of Richard de Gelham fee in Elvedon.41 


 4 


 
 
 No references have been found relative to the holding in Twine ham or its tenant ; but it is possible that the manor there held by Thomas de Poynings ( n . 3 ) at his death in 1339 , and later by the Benefelds ( n . 8 ) , was an alienation from this fee . 


 
 
 1. Pipe R. 6 Hen . II , 33. 2. Harl . ch . 83 , f . 54 ; with a large number of witnesses ; seal . Cf. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 96. 3. Pipe R. 15 Hen . II , 26 . 6. R. Lit. Claus . i . 234b , Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 1071 . 


 
 
 4. Mon. Angl . vi . 730b . 2376. 7. Ibid . 240 . 


 
 
 5. R. Lit. Pat . 89 . 8. Ibid . 375b . 


 
 
 9 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 361] ===
 
 
 ORLESWICK , FINCHAM 345 


 
 
 11. Pat . R. 524 . 


 10. Close R. 401 . where ' Nicholaus ' may be a misreading for Nicholaa . ' 


 12. Lib . Mem . de Bernewelle , 260 , 13. Close R. 214 . 


 C 


 14. Bk of Fees , 927. 15. Testa , 2226. 16. Bk . of Fees , 919. 17. Testa , 2136. 18. Feet of F. , Suff . 42 Hen . III . 19. Cal . of Fines , Beds . n . 559 . 20. Placit . de quo war . 102b . 21. R. Hund . i . 54b . 22. Ibid . ii . 498 , 504 . 23. Cal . of Cambs . Fines , 55 . 24. Feud . Aids , i . 159. 25. Ibid . v . 32 . 26. Ibid . iii . 441 . 27. Cal . Inquis . iii . 370 . 28. Cal . Pat . R. 166 , 215 . 29. Ibid . 441. 30. Cal . Inquis . iv . 291 , 293 . See Cal . Chart . R. iii . 25. 31. Cal . Close R. 478 , 523. 32. Cal . Chart . R. iii . 205 ; Cal . Close R. 504 . 33. Cal . Pat . R. 263-4 . 34. Cal . Inquis . vi . 331 , 334 . 35. Cal . Close R. 447. 36. Cal . Inquis . vi . 483. 37. Cal . Close R. 539 , 582. 38. Cal . 40. Ibid . iii . 529 . 41. Ibid . v . 79 . 


 Pat . R. 177 . 


 39. Feud . Aids , i . 159 . 


 
 
 VIII . 


 In Sussex Nigel in 1086 held of William de Warenne in Orles wick 5 hides , Esmerewic ' ( ? Hangleton ) 1 hide , Wootton I hide , Allington virgate . 


 2 


 1 


 In Norfolk William de Warenne held in Fincham 2 carucates , South Burgh carucate , Helhoughton carucate and 12 acres , Hackford 1 carucates . 


 I 


 Nigel gave tithes of Orleswick and of 1 hide in Wootton to the monks of Lewes by consent of William de Warenne ; Ralph son of Nigel and his wife gave land with pasture for 100 sheep by consent of the second earl Warenne , and his tithe in Hangleton ; Godard gave the tithe of 1 hide in Orleswick.¹ About 1148-9 Simon de Hangelton attested a charter of Reginald de Warenne , brother of the third earl . Ralph de Hangeltun attested a charter of earl Hamelin.3 


 2 


 
 
 4 


 Before the end of the 12th century the line of Nigel the Domes day tenant failed . In 1199 Lucy de Cokefeld and Adam her son recovered their free tenement in Hangleton against Wolwin reeve of Bleachington and others . Their position in the vill is un determined . In 1250 Robert son of Robert de Cokefeld acquired from his said father a messuage and 2 carucates in Hangleton and Aldrington in return for an annuity of £ 20 to his said father.5 In 1291 Robert de Cokefeld passed to Luke de Ponynges the manor of Hangleton , to hold in fee by rendering 40s . at a scutage of 40s . , reserving to himself a life estate . See below . 


 6 


 
 
 8 


 Before 1100 Robert de Maners ( de Maneriis ) attested a charter of Robert count of Eu . Robert de Maners prior to 1147 gave to Waverley abbey Nutshaw ( Nutescheolva ' ) , Hants . In 1176 Richard de Maners was pardoned 10 marks of an amercement of 40 marks for forest trespass in Hampshire . " He may have been of Ash Maners , Hants . See Eudes the sewer , n . 42. Another ( ? ) Richard de Maners made an agreement in 1207 with Robert Fitz Roger of Norfolk.10 In 1209-10 Thomas de Benefeld and Walter de Bergh levied a fine of the advowson of the church of St. Andrew of Burgh next Hingham , Norf.¹¹ John de Beningefeld had proffered 100s . in 1187 for a recognition respecting fee in Lewes and Garton against the earl of Warenne.12 In 1222 Richard de Mesners or Mainers was charged by a Norfolk man with detention of a horse 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 362] ===
 
 
 346 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 which was seen yoked in the earl of Warenne's harrow at Stanford , Norf.13 In the following year Richard de Mesners had letters of protection on going on pilgrimage to Santiago with the earl of Warenne.14 


 
 
 In 1242-3 Cardo de Hangelton and Ralph de Meyners held 3 fees in Hangleton of the honor of Warenne.15 The said Ralph . died soon after without issue , leaving his sisters his heirs , namely Agnes late wife of William de Benefeld and Isabel wife of Philip de Neubaud . In 1247 a partition of the inheritance was made , whereby Agnes granted to Philip and Isabel land in Orleswick and the tenement in Marham , Norf . , which Agnes had of the gift of their father , Richard de Meyners , in frank marriage ; certain tenements in Fincham , Norf . , then held in dower by Leticia late wife of their deceased brother Ralph , were to be divided upon reversion between them , so that the chief messuage at Fincham should fall to Isabel's share.16 Philip and Isabel were living in 1253,17 and in 1262 they sold to Master Henry de Lewes a messuage and 2 virgates in Allington , Suss.18 


 Agnes de Benefeld seems to have been mother of Richard de Benefeld , who acquired in 1269 for 9 marks from Philip and Isabel de Neubaud a tenement in Dene , Suss.19 Three years later he acquired from Richard son of Cardo de Hangelton for 40 marks a messuage and 110 acres of land in Hangleton , and the reversion of land held in dower by a certain widow , Joan ( de Hangelton ) .2 20 


 In 1267 William de Rusham exchanged his land in Saund by Poynings , now Perching Sands , Suss . , with Richard de Benefeld for the vicomté of Meyners and other lands in the realm of the king of France held of the abbot of Corbie.21 


 The Clackclose hundred roll of 1275 records a plea between Richard de Benefeld and Philip de Neubaud , plaintiffs ( ? ) , and William de Causton.22 Richard de Benefeld is also mentioned as of Buntinghill hundred , Suss . , in that year.23 Further reference . to this Richard , or his son , will be found in the account of Shere , Surr . ( n . 12 ) . 


 
 
 In 1302 John de Benefeld held of this honor in South Burgh fee ; with Edmund de la Combe and Ralph Neubaud he held in Fincham fee of the honor of Lewes.24 He was joint lord of Fincham in 1316.25 He held of Aymer de Valence , earl of Pembroke , in 1324 in Fincham , Burgh , Hackford , Hargham and Helhoughton I fee , 26 and died in the following year ; James son of Walter son of the said John was aged 9 years.27 Part of this fee was in 1327 assigned to Thomas le Blount and Juliana his wife , late wife of John de Hastings , in dower , and the reversion to the pourparty of Lawrence de Hastinges . 28 


 
 
 It is possible that Thomas de Poynings had wardship of this fee in Sussex , for he held at his death in 1339 manors in Hangleton and Twineham.29 See n . 3 . 


 
 
 John de Benefeld held these tenements in 1346 and another John held in 1412 the manors of Hangleton and Twineham.30 


 The name Hangelton continued in Hampshire . In 1334 a dispute about estovers in 300 acres of wood in Charlton and land 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 363] ===
 
 
 PERCHING , ADDINGTON 347 


 
 
 in Catherington , Hants . , between John L'Estrange and Richard de Hangelton was settled at the earl of Arundel's request.31 


 
 
 1. Watson , op . cit . i . 96 . 3. Watson , ut sup . i . 167 . n . 514 . 6. Ibid . n . 1062 . 


 4 . 


 2. Brit . Mus . , Facsim . R. Cur . Reg . iii . 105. 5 . 7. Round , Calendar , n . 230 . 


 of Chs . n . 31 . Feet of F. , Suss . 8. Mon. Angl . v . 2426. 9. Pipe R. 22 Hen . II , 194. 10. R. de Fin . 378. 11. Feet of F. , Norf . 11 John . 12. Pipe R. 33 Hen . II , 109 . 13. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 194 . 14. Pat . R. 369. 15. Testa , 222b . 16. Feet of F. , Suss . n . 437 . 17. Ibid . Norf . 37 Hen . III . 18. Ibid . Suss . n . 660 . 19. Ibid . n . 746 . 20. Ibid . n . 793 . 21. Cal . Pat . R. 176 . Hund . i . 520b . 23. Ibid . ii . 210. 24. Feud . Aids , iii . 391 , 399. 25. Ibid . 452. 26. Cal . Inquis . vi . 331. 27. Ibid . 360 . 28. Cal . Close R. 1325 , P. 277 ; 1327 , P. 13. 29. Cal . Inquis . viii . 171 . 30. Feud . Aids , vi . 525 . 31. Cat . of Anct . D. ii . B. 3481 . 


 22. R. 


 
 
 IX . 


 In Sussex William de Warenne had in 1086 in Perching 2 hides which Tezelin held of him and in Fulking 3 hides and I virgate held by Tezelin . These two lands of Tezelin's then lay together ( as one manor ) . 


 In Surrey Tezelin the cook held Addington in chief for 1 hide , and Hurtmore ( in Godalming ) of Walter son of Other for 3 hides . William second earl Warenne confirmed to Lewes the tithes of William son of Techelin at Perching.¹ 


 4 


 In the time of Henry II and Richard I the kitchen serjeanty of Addington was in the possession of Bartholomew de Caisneto , or de Cheney . He is mentioned in the roll of the sheriff of Kent for 1176 , as having been disseised of land by Hugh pincerna.2 Richard bishop of Winchester ( 1173-1188 ) confirmed to St. Mary's , Southwark , the church of Addington with the chapel of All Saints given by Bartholomew de Caisneto.3 In 1161 Bartholomew de Caisneto accounted in Surrey for 1 mark of scutage . This was in respect of Addington , and the above entry led to a protest on the part of the owner in 1234 against being charged to scutage in respect of this estate , which appeal was supported by the verdict of twelve knights.5 It appears probable that the fee of Tezelin in Perching , Fulking and Addington was acquired in marriage by a cadet of the house of Cheney ( n . 1 ) , and so descended unsevered to the heir general of Bartholomew de Cheney . 


 7 


 In 1165 Alan and Henry , sons of Ailwin son of Lefstan , accounted in Essex and Hertfordshire of 20 marks for a fine of land . Of Leof stan son of Orgar and his sons Ailwin and Robert see Mr. Round's The Commune of London , 105. Henry son of Ailwin attests many London charters and one as mayor of London . He was the first mayor of the commune of London ( 1187 to 1212 ) . There is no evidence that his descendant , William Aguillun , held land in Sussex prior to his marriage to the granddaughter of Henry son of Ailwin , whose son Peter held Tezelin's land and serjeanty . Aguillun was probably a Norman who entered the service of king John . Perhaps he may be identified as the son of William Aguillun , who in 1200 made a covenant with John the marshal to deliver 


 
 
 C 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 364] ===
 
 
 348 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 William Aguillun , his eldest son and heir , to the wardship of the said John and £ 40 of rent and land in Meautreu ( Méautry , in Calvados ) and in the mill of La Coudre at Gossiert Molins , which rent the father gave to William his son subject to John the marshal holding it in his hands while the son was under age ; and further that John should give the son a wife by the joint advice of John and the father , who also delivered to John all his ( William's ) other lands in Normandy for a term of 10 years.8 


 
 
 In 1205 Peter son of the mayor of London held a moiety of Addington by kitchen serjeanty.9 On 10 December , 1203 , King John granted to Peter , son of Henry then Mayor of London , the custody of the land and heirs of Isabella de Chesney , late the wife of the said Peter , namely Margaret and Joan , daughters of the said Peter and Isabella , and their marriages.10 Margaret , the elder daughter , was married to Ralph de Clere ( n . 12 ) , who held in her right the manor of Greatham , Hants . , and Joan , the younger daughter , was married to Ralph le Parmenter , of whom see Stapleton in his preface to the Liber de Antiquis Legibus ( pp . vii - xii ) . 


 
 
 The first Aguillon definitely connected with Perching was William Aguillon , living temp . John , who obtained the serjeanty of Adding ton , Sussex , in marriage in 1212 , in which year a mandate was issued to William de Harecurt to deliver to William Aguillun a lady named Joan , late the wife of Ralph Parmenter and then in Harecurt's custody.11 On 5 October in that year the mayor and sheriffs of London were ordered to take into the king's hands the lands and rents in London late of Henry Fitz - Ailwin , late mayor of London , deceased , and to provide to William Aguillun and Joan , late the wife of Ralph Parmenter , Joan's dower of the lands late of the said Ralph in London.12 The sheriffs of Norfolk , Sussex and Surrey were ordered to deliver to William Aguillun the chattels then in the king's hands in the land of Ralph Parmenter in their respective bailiwicks.13 Mr. Stapleton shows that the land in Norfolk lay in Scroteby.14 


 
 
 In the year 1212 it was returned by the inquest for Walton hundred , Sussex , that Bartholomew del Chennay held a part of Addington in chief of the king by serjeanty of the kitchen , by whose gift was not known ; that king Richard gave the same tenement to Peter son of the mayor of London with Bartholomew's daughter , and king John afterwards gave it to Ralph Parmenter 15 with Peter's daughter , and that it was in the king's hands at the time of the inquiry.16 By a later return ( c . 1219 ) it appears that William Aguillun then held certain land in Addington by serjeanty of making hashes ( hastias ) in the king's kitchen on the coronation day , or some one for him ought to make a certain mess called ' Le Girunt , ' and if stuffing is put in it then it is called ' Malpiger See a very full account of this family and serjeanty in Stapleton's Liber de Antiquis Legibus and in Mr. Round's account of this serjeanty in The King's Serjeants ( 245-9 ) . In 1215 seisin of the land late of Ralph de Clere in Greatham , Hants . , was ordered to be given to William Aguillun and Joan his wife , if it was found by inquiry to be the right and inheritance of Joan.18 In June 1214 


 noun . ' 17 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 365] ===
 
 
 PERCHING , ADDINGTON 349 


 
 
 William Aguillun , being with the king in Poitiers , had restoration of the land late of Gilbert de Norfolk in ( East ) Harling , Norf.19 ( See n . 20. ) 


 
 
 On 2 September a mandate was sent to the bishop of Win chester that , in accordance with the record of an agreement made between the king and William Aguillun touching the daughter and heir of Peter son of Henry Fitz - Eilwin the mayor of London and the said Henry as to the mayor's lands and tenements in London , they should give the same William seisin of the lands , rents and other possessions of the said Henry within the city of London and without.20 Part of the property lay in Kent , Surrey and Hertford shire . 21 Afterwards William Aguillun withdrew his allegiance to John , but returned again , and on 17 Sept. , 1217 , had restoration of his lands in Gloucestershire , Norfolk , Oxfordshire , Hampshire and the city of London.22 In 1217 Orabilis late wife of Alan son of the mayor demanded against William Aguillun a third part of a knight's fee in Beckenham and of & fee in Stoke , Kent , as her dower ; William vouched to warranty his wife Joan , whose inheritance that land was.23 In 1219 he and Joan his wife purchased a writ against Ralph de Clere touching the manor of Greatham , Hants.24 


 
 
 In 1234 William Aguillun obtained a grant of the land late of Robert de Curcy in Emsworth and Warblington , Hants . , which he had previously held of the bail of king John.25 


 
 
 To the aid of 1235-6 he paid mark in respect of ( ? ) fee in Greatham , 26 and in 1242-3 was returned as holding Greatham of the fee of the earl Warenne and I fee in Perching , Sussex , of the same fee.27 The heirs of Bartholomew de Kaisneto held 2 mes suages in Lewes , by what service was not known.28 


 William Aguillun died in 1244 , when Robert his son and heir paid £ 10 for relief of the lands he held in chief in ( Addington ) , Surrey , ( Watton ) , Herts . , and ( Greatham ) Hants.29 This Robert was a man of some importance in the time of Henry III . In 1260 he obtained a release from John son of John de Scalers and Alice his wife of two - thirds of the manor of Perching , with the reversion of the third part of the same which John Pycot and Lucy his wife held in dower of the inheritance of the said Alice.30 John de Scalers and Alice his wife were parties to fines of land in various places in Norfolk during the period 1256-1263 . Alice de Scalers was named in 1275 among the heirs general of Fulk de Beaufou of Hockwold . 


 
 
 In 1267 Robert Aguillon was appointed sheriff of Surrey and Sussex and constable of Guildford castle.31 In 1269 he granted to Stephen le Marshal of La Wyke , for his life , a rent charge of 20 marks out of the manor of Perching , 32 and gave bond for due performance with power of distress to be levied in default of payment in his manors of Perching , Fulking and Edburton.33 In 1264 he had licence to crenellate the manor house of Perching , 34 and again in 1268 to enclose the manse of his manor of Perching with a ditch and wall of stone and to crenellate it.³ 35 About the same time he married Margaret countess of the Isle , and , for his good service in the time of the disturbance of the realm , the king gave him a 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 366] ===
 
 
 350 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 provision of £ 200 yearly in land.36 In 1284-5 he held the vill of Perching of the earl Warenne , 37 and died early in 1286 holding the manor of Perching with its members of the earl Warenne for I fee , a tenement there of Sir William de Say for fee , another of Sir William Grandyn for fee and fee ; in Surrey he held the manor of Addington with Waldingham , a member thereof , in chief by serjeanty of making certain food at the coronation called ' le mes de Maupygernoun ' ; in Kent land at Hoo Allhallows ; in Hertfordshire the manor of Watton , held in chief by serjeanty of finding a footman in the king's army for 40 days at his own cost ; in Hampshire a messuage at Greatham held in chief and rent of assize at Emsworth pertaining to the manor of Perching ; he also held lands in London and in Kent , Buckinghamshire , Norfolk and Suffolk ; dame Isabel his daughter , wife of Hugh Bardolf , was aged 28 years.38 


 Later in the year dower was assigned to Margaret the relict of Robert , namely the manor of Greatham , rent and land in Emsworth , Hoo , Addington , Waldingham , and the manor of Crofton , Bucks.39 At her death in 1292 she held the manors of Addington , Surrey , Bures Tany , Essex , and Greatham , Hants . , with lands in Edmonton , Midd . , Hoo , Kent , and Crofton , Bucks . , of the inheritance of Isabel daughter and heir of Robert Aguillon and then wife of Hugh Bardolf , aged 28 years.40 


 At his death in 1304 Hugh Bardolf held the manor of Perching of the inheritance of Isabel his wife , who survived him , of the Earl Warenne for I fee , with the other lands of her inheritance ; Thomas his son and heir was aged 22 years . 41 Dower was assigned to her in 1306 in 6 counties.42 In 1315 the lordship of lands , villeins etc. in Emsworth and Warblington , Hants . , given by Henry III to William Aguillon and lately seised into the king's hands , was restored to dame Isabella , late the wife of Hugh Bardolf.43 She was lady of Perching in 1316.44 


 Thomas Bardolf at his death in 1330 held part of the Aguillon inheritance , but Perching and Fulking were not included.45 In the preceding year Robert de Ardern had licence to crenellate his mansion of Perching , Suss.46 In 1338 John de Molyns had letters of protection at his manor of Perching and other manors.4 


 47 


 
 
 1. Watson , op . cit . i . 96. 2. Pipe R. 22 Hen . II , 210 . 3. Mon. Anglic . vi . 1726. 4. Pipe R. 7 Hen . II , 43. 5. Madox , Hist . of the Excheq . i . 651 ; Round , The King's Serjeants , 23-4 . 6. Pipe R. 11 Hen . II , 18 . 7. Cal . of Anct . D. i . A.1474 et pass . 8. R. Chart . 98. 9. Bk . of Fees , 340. 10. R. Chart . 114. 11. R. Lit. Pat . 95. 12. R. Lit. Claus . i . 124b . 


 Cf. ibid . 127 . 13. Ibid . 126b . 14. Cf. Testa , 284b . 15. Ralph was ill in 1204 in Wilts ; R. Lit. Claus . i . 146. 16. Bk . of Fees , 68. 17. Ibid . 274. 18. R. Lit. Claus . i . 242. 19. Ibid . 167. 20. Ibid . 1716. 21. Ibid . 187. 22. Ibid . 322. 23. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 1302. 24. Excerpt . e R. 


 Fin . i . 37 . 25. Close R. 515 ; Cal . Close R. 1315 , p . 159 . 26. Testa , 2386. 27. Ibid . 222b , 232b . 28. Ibid . 226b . 29. Excerpt . Fin . i . 424 ; Cal . R. Original . i . 6b . 30. Feet of F. , Suss . n . 643. 31. Cal . Pat . R. 25 . 32. Suss . Feet of F. n . 728. 33. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 82-3 . 35. Pat . R. 189 . 36. Ibid . 1269 , p . 348 . 37 . 38. Cal . Inquis . ii . 360. This union is recorded in an a Sussex return made in 1212 or 1219 ; Testa , 228 . 


 34. Cal . Pat . 307 . Feud . Aids , v . 129 . interpolation added to 39. Cal . Close , 389 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 367] ===
 
 
 KINGSTON BUCY 351 


 
 
 40. Cal . Inquis . iii . II . 


 41. Ibid . iv . 168 . 


 43. Cal . Close R. 1315 , p . 159 ; Cal . Pat . R. 1314 , p . 139 . Aids , v . 136 . 45. Cal . Inquis . vii . 174 ff . 47. Ibid . 106 . 


 
 
 42. Cal . Close R. 440-1 . 44. Feud . 46. Cal . Pat . R. 357 . 


 
 
 X. 


 Of the land of Hangleton , which belonged to Kingston Bucy ( now Kingston by the Sea ) , Sussex , described ( at n . 5 ) as 14 hides and 1 virgate , some part may have lain in the vill of Kingston Bucy , where a certain Ralph held 6 hides in 1086 of William de Braose , lord of Bramber . He also held Shermanbury of the same lord , and both manors , with the advowsons of the churches , descended together in the Buci family . 


 8 


 The origin of the family is perplexing . To the charter of William de Braose founding the priory of Sele in 1075 Ralph son of Landric de Boceo was a witness , ¹ and may have been the Ralph named above . To a charter by Philip de Braose , made when he was about . to set off to Jerusalem , one Bucei was a witness ; 2 and this is probably the Buci the sheriff who attested a certificate issuing from the court of Philip at Washington concerning the parishes of Southwick and Bramberden.3 Bucei and Hugh Bucei attested Braose charters to Lewes.4 Hugh son of Buci and Mahald his wife gave their portion of a saltern in the marsh of Bramber , by the castle , to the monks of Dureford , and William de Braose II confirmed the same . Seifred II , bishop of Chichester ( 1180-1204 ) , also confirmed this gift of the fourth part of a saltern given by Hugh Buci . To another charter of William de Braose II Robert de Buci and Buci de Selliterne and William his son were witnesses ; and Robert de Buci attested another charter of the same William de Braose , which must be dated in or before 1144 , when Seifrid I , bishop of Chichester ( 1125–1148 ) , confirmed it . It seems probable that Robert de Buci was the son of Ralph of 1086 and ancestor of the later lords of Kingston , and that Bucei was another person who may have had the Braose part of Sullington . A plea of 1201 yields the descent of the line . Robert de Buci demanded of William Hansard the service of knight for land in Kingston , where William acknowledged only 2s . of rent . The plaintiff stated that the defendant's grandfather William held of his grandfather Robert de Buci ( no doubt the Robert named above ) ; and that the defendant's father , another William , held of his own father , Hugh de Buci ; and further that defendant had done homage to him the said Robert de Buci . Later in the year Robert released the knight's service , so that the tenement should thenceforth be held by 2s . rent , making a share of the fence of the park of William de Braiose at Knapp and giving sheriff's aid.10 Robert de Buci in 1199 sold half a virgate of land in Kingston to Philip Hoel ; it was to be held for the fortieth part of a knight's fee.11 A John de Buci was one of the men of William de Braiose in 1203.12 


 9 


 
 
 7 


 
 
 In 1214 Robert de Buci had his writ of the scutage of Poitou , 13 and was a surety for Robert le Sauvage in respect to his fine in 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 368] ===
 
 
 352 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 Sussex.14 Robert de Busey was chief lord of Roland de Acstede in 1231 of land in Wantley , Suss.15 In 1241 he was a commissioner to view the royal castles in Sussex.16 In 1242-3 he was tenant of 4 fees of the honor of Bramber in Kingston Bucy , William de Buci being the tenant of I fee of the honor of Warenne.17 In 1248 Robert son of Robert de Buci manumitted one of his Sussex natives of his bondage.18 19 Hugh 


 Hugh de Buci succeeded and occurs in a fine of 1255.¹ de Buscy released to Lewes priory about this time all his claim in the services of I knight's fee ( less 2 virgates ) in Wantley , where 20 virgates made a knight's fee ; a rent of 4s . was to be paid.20 He held 4 fees of the honor of Bramber in 1267 , and paid 48 marks to William de Braiose for the discharge of his land from liability to murage.21 He claimed wreck of the sea at Kingston Bucy in 1275,22 but in 1279 it was presented that he ought not to have it.23 


 Robert de Buci held the 4 fees in Kingston Bucy and the members in 1291.24 He was dead in 1314 , when his widow Lucy held a third of the manors of Kingston and Shermanbury and the advowson of the church of the latter place ; the reversion was settled on Hugh de Boucy ( probably son of Robert ) and Agnes his wife and their issue , together with the advowson of Kingston church and the other two - thirds of the manors.25 In 1316 Hugh de Bussy was lord of Kingston Bucy.26 Land in Kingston was held of Hugh de Boucy in 1338,27 and he was appointed sheriff of Surrey and Sussex in 1341 , continuing in office for a year.2 28 He died about 1359 , leaving as heirs two daughters - Sibil wife of John de Lillebon ( L'Islebon ) and then of Andrew de Changeton , and Joan wife of Sir William de Fifhide . The former in 1348 transferred their rights in the inheritance to the Fifhides and Sir William died seised of Kingston in 1361. His son Sir William dying in 1387 without issue , the manors of Kingston and Shermanbury descended to his cousin Joan , daughter of his aunt Agnes and wife of Sir John Sonde or Sondes . 29 


 
 
 In 1428 it was returned that the heir of William Fyfhide held fee in Shermanbury , and the heirs of Henry ( sic ) Boucy and William Fyfhide held 2 fees in Kingston ; 30 a half fee in Kingston had been divided between three persons - John Cambray , William Merlot and Richard Norton.31 


 
 
 1. Mon. Angl . iv . 669a . See Round , Doc . France , 396 , 397 ( Radulf and Randulf ) . 2. Mon. Angl . iv . 669b . 3. Dallaway , West Sussex , II . ii . 62 ( from deeds at Magd . Coll . Oxon . ) . 4. Lewes Chartul . , Vesp . F. xv . f . 131 . 5. Dureford Chartul . , Vesp . E. xxiii . f . 29d . 6. Mon. Angl . vi . 938b . 9. R. Cur . Regis , iii . 469 . 12. R. Lit. Pat . 29 . 15. Bracton's Note - Bk . 


 8. Dallaway , loc . cit . 11. Ibid . n . 19 . 


 14. R. de Fin . 527 . 


 17. Testa , 222. 18. Suss . Feet of F. n . 490 . 


 7. Ibid . iv . 669b . 10. Suss . Feet . of F. n . 50 . 13. R. Lit. Claus . i . 200b . n . 546. 16. Close R. 346 . 19. Ibid . n . 588. 20. Lewes Chartul . , Vesp . F. xv . f . 128 , 128d . 21. Suss . Feet of F. n . 721 . 22. R. Hund . ii . 201 ; cf. Cal . Misc . Ing . i . 316 . 23. Plac . de quo war . 754b . 24. Cal . Close R. 179 . 25. Add . Charter , 54501 ; Suss . Feet of F. n . 1376 , 1378 . 26. Feud . Aids , v . 152 , 160 . 27. Cal . Inquis . viii . 105 . 28. Cal . Fine R. v . 200 . 29. Dallaway , West Sussex , II . ii . 322. See Suss . Feet of F. nos . 2069 , 2071 , 2168 , 2171 , 2180 ; Cal . Pat . R. 1361-64 , pp . 58 , 475 ; 1388-92 , p . 201. 30. Feud . Aids , v . 160 . 31. Ibid . 152 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 369] ===
 
 
 BEVENDEAN , MIDDLETON 353 


 
 
 XI . 


 In Essex in 1086 Walter held of William de Warenne in ( Leaden ) Roding 3 hides , including 1 hide which belonged T.R.E. to Ely . Walter held of William de Warenne in Bevendean , Suss . , 4 hides with 1 virgate outside the rape . 


 In Suffolk Ranulf the nephew ( nepos ) held of William de Warenne in Middleton 2 carucates . 


 
 
 William 2nd earl of Warenne confirmed to Lewes the tithes of Middleton , Norf . , of the gift of William son of Ranulf , and I virgate ( in Middleton , Norf . ( ? ) ) , which Gladio the jester held , of the gift of Ranulf de Warenne.¹ He also confirmed the gift of his father , the first earl , of plenary tithes of Middleton , Norf.2 


 In 1086 William de Cahainges held Folkington of the count of Mortain , of whom Walter held the Easthall in Eastbourne ( ? Cholington ) and 3 hides in Beverington . The count himself held Tarring Neville , with which went 1 virgates in Standen which was part of Bevendean . Most of these estates were held subse quently by the family of Fokinton . Possibly ' Walter ' who held of the archbishop's manor of South Malling two - thirds of half a hide was the same Walter as he who held in Bevingdean . If so his tenement was in Isfield . 


 
 
 100S . 


 In 1171 the farmers of the archbishopric rendered account of for relief of Hugh de Fokinton.3 In 1177 Robert de Folkinton was amerced for a default in Norfolk or Suffolk . A man of Hugh de Folkinton is named in the rolls of the sheriff of Worcester for 1184 and 1185.5 In the account of lands granted prior to 1189 in the honor of Petworth by Joscelin the Castellan a rent of £ 8 125. 3d . for 6 years for 26 solidates of land on the manor of Folkington and Sutton of Hugh de Fokinton remained undischarged . Hugh and Reginald de Fokinton attested the charter of the translation of Otham abbey to Beigham , Suff.7 


 6 


 
 
 III . 


 
 
 In 1200 a controversy touching the advowson of the church of Tarring , after the decease of Martin rector of the said church , was settled between Ralph de la Haye , patron of a third , the prior and convent of Lewes , patrons of a third , and Thomas de Heldham and Thomas his son , patrons of a third , namely that each party should successively present in turn.8 


 9 


 Among the fees of the archbishop in South Malling in 1212 , Hugh de Fokinton held 1 fee in Isfield . At the same time Sarra de Hay held the manor of Middleton , Suss . , in demesne.10 Hugh de Fokinton was at Dublin in the army of Ireland in 1210.11 Hugh de Fokington gave to the same monks a third part of the church of Tarring , being of his right , and of his right in the said part after the decease of Thomas the clerk to whom he had given it for life.12 This gift was confirmed by Simon bishop of Chichester ( 1204-1207 ) . 


 In 1214 Eggelina late the wife of Hugh de Fokinton demanded dower against Hugh de Fokinton in the vills of Folkington , Isfield , Tarring , Heyshott and Cholington ( in Eastbourne ) ; whereupon he satisfied her in Folkington , Beverington and Isfield.13 


 
 
 2 A 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 370] ===
 
 
 354 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 ¿ 


 
 
 In 1216 the sheriff of Sussex was ordered to give Roger ( recte Robert ) de Mortemer seisin of the lands of Berwick and Wikinton which were the marriage of the mother of the same Robert's wife and whereof Hugh de Fokinton disseised him.14 In the following year a mandate was issued to Gilbert Gernet , the prioress of Celle , and Stephen de Heendon to cause Saher earl of Winchester to have the son and heir of Hugh de Fokinton , whose land was of his fee.15 In 1230 Matilda late the wife of Reginald de Fokinton obtained dower in 75 acres of land in Bevendean.16 Hugh de Fokinton held in 1242-3 in Bevindean 1 fee of the earl Warenne's fee.¹ 17 He made restitution to the monks of Lewes of land given by his father in his manor of Isfield which he had seized.¹ 18 


 In 1249 Hugh de Fokinton acknowledged that I fee in Beven dean and fee in Yeverington and Beverington were the right of John la Warre and Olimpias his wife , doing the service of the half fee at Pevensey Castle.19 Olimpias was either daughter or niece . and heir of Hugh de Fokinton . This land descended c . 1275 to Roger la Warre , son and heir of John and Olimpias , of Wickwar , Gloucs . , who obtained in 1285 a grant of free warren in Folkington , Tarring , and other places named above . 20 He held this fee of Robert de Kaynes at the latter's death c . 1282.21 No further reference is found to any member of the Warenne fee in Bevendean . Possibly the Warres held of the Warenne fee in Leaden Roding , for in 1251 John de La Warre and Olimpias ( his wife ) impleaded John de Warenne for two - thirds of a messuage and carucate in that place , 22 and in 1257 the same John and Olimpias obtained from Richard Filiol an acknowledgment that a carucate in Leaden Roding was the right of John son of the said John La Warre ; the land was of the inheritance of Olimpias and was held by Filiol of La Warre . 23 In 1303 Margery Filiol held fee here , doubtless of La Warre as of this honor.24 


 2 


 
 
 In 1282 John de Mohaut ( de Monte Alto ) acquired from John de Middleton I carucate in Middleton ( next Pevensey ? ) and the advowson of the church , to hold for the term of his life , 25 and in 1288 Roger la Warre acknowledged that the manor of Middleton next Pevensey was the right of John de la Hay and Joan his wife and the heirs of John , for which acknowledgment they granted to Roger the manor of Folkington.26 


 In 1317 the dean and chapter of Chichester released to the prior and convent of Lewes any right they had in the advowson of Tarring by reason of a third part of the manor of Tarring which was formerly of Roger de la Warr , knt . , and further they ratified the charter of Hugh de Fokinton , great - grandfather ( proavus ) of the said Roger , to the monks of Lewes of the advowson of the said church.27 


 
 
 Roger la Warre died in 1320 , leaving issue , by Clarice his wife , John his son and heir , aged 40 years ; the manor of Middleton , Suss . , had been demised to Roger for his life by his son Roger , and the manor of Isfield similarly by his son John.28 


 
 
 1. Watson , op . cit . i . 97. 2. Ibid . 95. 3. Pipe R. 17 Hen . II , 142 . 4. Ibid . 23 Hen . II , 132. 5. Ibid . 30 Hen . II , 66. 6. Ibid . 1 Ric . 13-14 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 371] ===
 
 
 SHERE , GREATHAM 355 


 
 
 9. Red Bk . 


 12. Cat . of 


 7. Mon. Angl . vi . 911b . 8. Cat . of Anct . D. v . A. 13131 ( 4 ) . 473 , 556. 10. Bk . of Fees , 72. 11. R. de Liberate , 215 . Anct . D. v . A. 13131 ( 1 and 2 ) . 13. Sussex Feet of F. no . 137. 14. R. Lit. Claus . i . 259. 15. Ibid . 3286 , 3426. 16. Sussex Feet of F. n . 245 . 18. Cat . of Anct . D. iii . A. 4209. 19. Sussex Feet of F. n . 507. 20. Cal . Chart . ii . 282. 21. Cal . Inquis . iv . 337 ; Cal . Close , 1279-88 , PP . 225 , 240 . 22. Close R. 536. 23. Feet of F. , Essex , 219. 24. Feud . Aids , ii . 152 . 25. Sussex Feet of F. ii . nos . 945 , 961. 26. Ibid . n . 1035 . 27. Cat . of Anct . D. v . A. 13131 ( 3 ) . 28. Cal . Inquis . vi . 148 . 


 17. Testa , 222b . 


 
 
 XII . 


 In Surrey the king held in demesne in 1086 Shere , assessed T.R.E. at 9 hides ( out of 16 hides ) and in Wotton hundred 3 virgates which belonged to Shere . 


 In Sussex Scolland held of William de Warenne in Benefield in Twineham land assessed T.R.E. at 2 hides . Alfred held similarly in Benefield 1 hide and I virgate . 


 In Hampshire the king held in Soberton 3 hides ( ? ) , Greatham I hide ( Queen Edith T.R.E. ) , Lasham 2 hides , Wellow 3 virgates . Oismelin held of William de Warenne in Fratton ( in Portsea ) 4 hides . 


 
 
 Some account of the descent of these lands in Sussex and Hamp shire in the family of Benefeld will be found above at n . 8 . 


 The second earl of Warenne confirmed to Lewes 1 virgate in Twineham which Gilbert son of Gozo gave , tithe of a hall there which Scotland gave , the tithe of Aubrey and the tithe of Alvered the earl's foster - brother.¹ 


 
 
 Shere , Reigate and Dorking belonged to queen Edith T.R.E. All three became members of the honor of Warenne , possibly when the first earl of Warenne was created earl of Surrey by William II within the period 1087-89 . The third earl was pardoned danegeld in Surrey in 1130 of £ 6 ; that is , on 60 hides . These were probably Shere 16 hides , Reigate 34 hides , Dorking 10 hides . 


 
 
 C 


 3 


 Until the middle of the thirteenth century the references to Shere are extremely meagre . It is assumed ( without evidence ) that the Cleres were enfeoffed of Shere with the other lands de scribed at the head of this section . The descent of the family has been described by the writer in Early Yorkshire Charters , i . 480-1 ( Bigot Fee ) . In 1167 Greatham of Roger ( de Clere ) owed mark for pleas of the forest.2 Roger son of Roger de Clere gave his land in Athelingworth ' to Lewes , for the health of his lord king Henry . Hawise de Gurnai acknowledged this gift by her husband Roger de Clere ; it was part of her dower . In 1180 William son of Turstin owed 40s . for having right in the king's court of the land of Greatham , Hants . , against Roger de Clere.5 In Norfolk the same Roger gave 40 marks for the postponement of the recogni tion which Ralph de Clere claimed against him . Helewise de Clere , foundress of the nunnery of Little Mareis , near Yedingham , Yorks , was probably his wife and seems to have survived as Helewise de Gornai . Roger died in 1183-4 without issue , being succeeded by his brother Ralph , who gave to Little Mareis the 


 6 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 372] ===
 
 
 356 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 church of Sinnington , Yorks . " Ralph de Clere , brother and heir of Roger de Clere , confirmed to Lewes the gift made by his brother for Ranulf de Glanvill and the soul of Bertha , Ranulf's wife . By Mabel his wife , who was also a benefactress to Little Mareis , he had issue Ralph II , a minor at his father's death in 1205,9 but of age in 1209 . 


 In 1205 the sheriff of Hampshire and 2 other sheriffs were directed to give the earl of Warenne seisin of the lands of Ralph de Clere , who was in the custody of the archbishop of Canterbury , being of the said earl's fee.10 The sheriff of Norfolk was directed to take into the king's hands the custody of the land and heir of Ralph de Clere which did not belong to the fee of the earl of Warenne.11 


 
 
 Hawise de Gurnai died in 1201 , when Thomas son of William son of John proffered 60 marks for his land of Englishcumb , Som . , late of Hawise de Gurnai.12 In 1206 Walter de Abernun was found to be brother and heir of Richard de Abernun of fee in Lasham , of which land Ralph de Clere was tenant ( sic ) .18 13 In 1210 , the primate having the wardship of Ralph de Clere and his land , his attorney complained that Walter de Abernun , William and Richard his brothers , held as of their own fee certain land in Lasham which by hereditary right ought to descend to Ralph de Clere after the death of Hawise de Gurnai , of whose dower it was . 14 


 In 1215 


 In 1215 Ralph de Clere was of the party of the barons , his land in Lasham being committed to the king's bailee.15 William Briwerre was directed to give Robert de Venuz seisin of the hamlets of Southington ( Suterinton ) and Greatham , late of Ralph de Clere and John Mautravers , worth £ 12 a year ; a fortnight later the same Robert was directed to inquire if the land late of Ralph de Clere in Greatham was the right and inheritance of Joan wife of William Aguillon , and if so to give her seisin thereof.16 As this manor was later in the possession of the Aguillons it would appear to have formed part of the holding described above at n . 9 . In 1216 Ralph was one of those who were not to be received to the king's peace pending his mandate.¹7 On Henry's accession he returned to allegiance 18 and had a writ of reseisin directed to the sheriff of Oxford and William de Aubigny.19 In Hampshire Mabel de Clere also returned to allegiance.20 Ralph granted his manor of Soberton to Jordan de Waltervill , who in turn demised it to the abbot and convent of Beaulieu at a rent of £ 12 10S.21 In 1230 Ralph was demanding from Jordan customs and services for the tenement that Jordan held of him in Soberton ; Jordan made default and a mandate issued to seize the land into the king's hands.22 Later Jordan resigned this rent of Beaulieu , his charter being confirmed by Henry III , Ralph de Clere and his son Roger.23 


 
 
 Ralph survived until after 1232 , before which year his son Roger had married Matilda elder daughter of Ralph de Fay of Bramley , Surrey , and eventually sister and coheir of John son of Ralph de Fay ( d . 1223 ) 24 by Beatrice his wife , one of the daughters and coheirs of Stephen de Turneham ( d . 1214 ) and his wife Eveline , daughter and heir of Ranulf de Broc , usher and marshal of Henry II.25 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 373] ===
 
 
 SHERE , GREATHAM 357 


 
 
 On the death of John de Fay in 1241 Roger de Clere and Matilda his wife had livery of a moiety of her brother's inheritance and gave relief of £ 7 10s.26 for their part of the manor of Bramley , Surr . 


 In 1242-3 Roger de Clere held 1 fee in Shere of the honor of Warenne.27 In Hampshire the abbot of Beaulieu ( de Bello Loco ) held in Soberton I fee of new feoffment of the heir of Ralph de Clere ; William Aguillon ( n . 9 ) held Greatham of the earl of Warenne for I fee of ancient feoffment ; 28 the prior of Domus Dei of Portsmouth held in Fratton fee of ancient feoffment of Hugh de Plaiz ( of his wife's dower ( ? ) ) , who held of the earl of Warenne.29 Prior to 1242 Roger had granted to John de Gatesden I carucate in Lasham.30 


 
 
 Beatrice relict of Ralph de Fay married secondly before 1232 Hugh de Nevill the forester , 31 and thirdly , in or before 1241 , Hugh de Plaiz , who divorced her and died in 1244.32 ( See n . 5. ) Beatrice was deceased in 1246 , when the lands that she had held in dower of the inheritance of Matilda de Clere and Philippa de Nevill ( her sister ) , about which there had been contention as to partition between Roger de Clere and his wife Matilda and William de Wintereshull and Beatrice his wife , to whom the said Philippa gave in frank marriage the portion which belonged to her , were restored to the said Roger and William and their respective wives , after having been in the king's hands by reason of the said contention.33 


 
 
 Roger de Clere in 1243 sold to Netley abbey a tillage in his manor of Shere and the advowson of the church for 300 marks.34 He died in 1248 , holding jointly with his wife Matilda ( de Fay ) a moiety of the manor of Bramley of her inheritance for 1 fee and lands in Yorkshire of his own inheritance ; Alice daughter of William le Rus ( d . 1253 ) by Agatha his wife , daughter and heir of the said Roger and Matilda , was his heir , aged 2 years.35 This Alice was unmarried in March 1260 when she was 15 years of age ; 36 but shortly after that date she married Richard de Braiose . Matilda de Clere died in 1249. 37 


 In the meantime Roger de Clere , described as Roger de Shyre , passed by fine to John Fitz - Geoffrey the manor of Shere with the vill of Crawley ( in Worth ) with the advowson of the church and the meadow of Vacherye , together with the homage and service of certain knights , viz .: of Walter Weps in Benefield , Suss . , of William son of William de Benefeld in Benefield , of William Aguylun in Fulking , Suss . , and Greatham , Hants . , and of John de Gatesden in Lasham , Hants.38 


 
 
 In 1251 Henry III confirmed to St. Edward's Stead ( Netley ) inter alia 100 acres in the manor of Shere and the advowson of the church there.39 


 
 
 John Fitz - Geoffrey died in 1259 , when John his son did homage for his father's lands and obtained the custody of the same for £ 300.40 He appears to have been already married to Margery daughter of Philip Basset . He was against the king in 1265 , whereupon the manors of Shere and Vachery were extended ¹¹ and committed to the earl of Gloucester , with whom the same John 


 41 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 374] ===
 
 
 358 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 redeemed his lands otherwise than in accordance with the dictum of Kenilworth . Consequently his lands were in 1268 again taken into the king's hands.42 He died in 1275 holding the manor of Shere of the earl of Warenne for 7½ fees , of which he held 1 fee in his own hands ( in Shere ) , the prior of Lewes held 1 fee ( in Atling worth ) , the abbot of Beaulieu I fee ( in Soberton ) , Robert Aguillon 1 fee ( in Fulking and Greatham ) , William Bardolf fee ( in Pipesty ) , Walter le Weps I fee ( in Benefield ) , Richard de Benefeld I fee ( in Benefield ) , the heirs of Simon de Montut and the prior of Ports mouth 1 fee ( in Lasham and Fratton ) , and the abbot of Netley fee ( in Wellow ( ? ) ) 43 ; Sir Richard his brother was aged 27 and more . 44 


 
 
 In 1279 Richard Fitz - John claimed view of frankpledge , gallows , free warren and other liberties in his manor of Shere ; it was pre sented that in the time of Roger de Clere the men of the manor came twice a year to the sheriff's tourn , but Roger gave John de Gatesden , then sheriff , 20s . a year and appropriated view to him self ; other presentments referred to John Fitz - John and John Fitz - Geoffrey , father of Richard.45 Margaret de Rivers , countess of Devon , held at her death of the inheritance of Isabel , daughter and heir of Robert Aguillon , wife of Hugh Bardolf , a manor in Greatham , Hants.46 


 
 
 Richard Fitz - John died in 1297 holding of the earl of Warenne the manor of Shere for 7 fees and suit of court at Reigate , to which manor that of La Vachery pertained , in Benefield 1 carucate held by John de Benefield ( alibi Henry de Benefeld ) for 1 fee , and I carucate there held by Roger le Weps ( alibi John Weps ) for 1 fee , in Pipestyfee held by Sir Hugh Bardolf , and in Atlingworth 


 fee held by the prior of Lewes ; in Hampshire , at Lasham 1 carucate held by the prior of Portsmouth for fee , and 1 carucate there held by John d'Abernon for 1 fee . His heirs were : Matilda de Beauchamp , countess of Warwick , eldest sister of the said Richard Fitz - John ; Robert de Clifford , son of Isabel de Clifford , daughter of Isabel de Veteri Ponte , and Idonea , daughter of the same Isabel the second sister ; Richard de Burgo , earl of Ulster , son of Aveline the third sister , and Joan late the wife of Theobald le Botiler , the fourth sister.47 The manor of Shere was assigned to the pourparty of Joan Botiler , 48 to whom were assigned also I fee in Benefield held by Henry de Benefeld , a fee there held by John Weps , fee in Pipesty , fee in Atlingworth held by the prior of Lewes ; to Richard de Burgh , earl of Ulster , was assigned I fee in Lasham held by John d'Abernoun , and the advowson of the church of Shere ; to Robert de Clifford 1 fee in Lasham held by the prior of Portsmouth.49 


 4 


 2 


 
 
 Joan la Botillere died in 1303 holding the manor of Shere with La Vachery , a member of Shere , and a park of the earl of Warenne for 1 fee ; Edmund le Botiller her son was aged 29 and more.50 He died in possession of Shere in 1321 ; James his son had livery of his inheritance in 1325. As earl of Ormond , the heir had a grant of free warren in Shere in 1328,52 and held the manor at his death in 1338 . 


 51 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 375] ===
 
 
 SHERE - HANGLETON , FELTWELL 359 


 
 
 William de Burgh , earl of Ulster , held at his death in 1333 a capital messuage in Shere held of John de Warenne , earl of Surrey , for two - thirds of fee ; John D'Abernoun held of him the manor of Lasham for I fee pertaining to Shere . 53 


 James le Botiller , earl of Ormond , by his will dated in 1379 at La Vachery , directed that if he should die in England his body should be buried in the church of Shere . 


 54 


 
 
 3. Lewes Ch . , Vesp . 


 1. Supra , p . 310 . 


 Pipe R. 13 Hen . II , 186 . 5. Pipe R. 26 Hen . II , 8. Vesp . F. xv . f . 121 . 


 135. 6. Ibid . 23 . Ralph de Clere and 9. R. Lit. Claus . i . 42b . 12. R. de Oblat . 151. Cf. Bracton's 14. Ibid . 66. 15. R. Lit. Claus . i . 17. Ibid . 250 . 18. Ibid . 310b . 21. V. C. H. Hants . iii . 258 . 


 Close R. 250 . 


 2 . F. xv . f . 121d . 4. Ibid . 7. Cal . Chart . R. i . 312 . William son of Ralph de Clere were witnesses . 10. R. Lit. Claus . i . 42b . 11. Ibid . Note - Bk . n . 1379. 13. Abbrev . Placit . 51 . 2356 , 270b . 16 Ibid . 2396. 242 . 19. Ibid . 319b - 20 . 20. Ibid . 3386 . 22. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 468 ; 24. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 679 . Claus . i . 4b , 141b , 274 et pass . 28. Ibid . 232b . 29. Cal . Chart . R. i . 266. 30. Ibid . 234. 31 . Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 679. 32. Excerpt . Fin . i . 421 , 427 . 1246 , p . 392. 34. Mon. Angl . v . 696. 35. Cal . Inquis . i . 49 . 37. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 66 . 38. Suss . Feet of F. n . 422 . Anct . D.ii. A. 3239. 40. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 294 ; Cal . Inquis . i . Misc . Ing . i . 273. 42. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 472 . 44. Cal . Inquis . ii . 96. 45. Placit . de quo war . 7426 . iii . II ; iv . 167 . Cal . Inquis . ii . 281–87 . 49. Cal . Close R. 287–8 . 242 , 248 , 287 . 50. Cal . Inquis . iv . 99. 51. Cal . Fine R. iii . 71 , 367 ff . 52. Cal . Chart . R. iv . 95. 53. Cal . Inquis . vii . 372 . 54. Cat . of Anct . D. iii . D. 440 . 


 23. V. C. H. Hants . iii . 258 . 25. R. Chart . 160b .; R. de Fin . 339 ; R. Lit. 26. Excerpt . Fin . i . 352 . 27. Testa , 220 . Close R. 272 ; 33. Close R. 36. Ibid . 128 . 39. Cat . of 195. 41. Cal . 43. Cf. Testa , 2316 , 235 . 46. Cal . Inquis . 48. Cal . Close 1299 , PP . 


 47 . 


 Cf. C. 3273 . 


 
 
 XIII . 


 In Sussex a manor in Hangleton of 8 hides formed part of the holding which William de Watevill held of William de Warenne in 1086 , as described at n . 6 . 


 
 
 In Norfolk William de Warenne had in Feltwell 2 ploughs in the demesne which Alveva had held T.R.E. St. Etheldreda of Ely had the soke . 


 
 
 Possibly the land of a freeman belonging to the royal manor of Holt , Norf . , was granted to William de Warenne ; in 1086 Walter Giffard held 31 carucates belonging to that manor which 8 freemen had held T.R.E. 


 
 
 A plea in the time of William I concerning invasions of the lands of Ely states that Gerard , a knight of William de Warenne , held the land of plough in Feltwell , and that William himself had 45 sokemen in the town , who at the abbot's will ploughed his land and rendered other services.¹ This Gerard may have been the ancestor of the Adeliza through whom Feltwell came to the Cokefeld family . 


 The antecessor of the Cokefelds was Berard , who held in 1086 in Norfolk under Roger Bigod the land of a sochman in Banham , and jointly with Aselin 110 acres in Tasburgh . But Berard's chief holding was under the abbot of St. Edmund's in Suffolk . In Cockfield Berard held 3 carucates , Rede carucate , Layham ( Lafham ) caracute , Whatfield 1 carucate and 100 acres , and 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 376] ===
 
 
 360 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 40 acres in Naughton.2 Berard's descendants are not known , and the land probably reverted to the abbey . Henry I , perhaps during the vacancy in 1120 , gave land to another Berard , who from his name may have been a kinsman . He , however , resigned . it to abbot Anselm ( 1121 to 1148 ) , the king allowing this.3 Then this abbot granted to Berard son of Aldstan , no doubt the same man , in Bardwell 10 acres , in Barton all the land of Hereward with Goda his daughter to wife ; he also granted to Berard son of Aldstan the land of Wulfric Aquenesima , his kinsman ( cognatus ) , in Hepworth ; Stephen confirmed a grant by abbot Ording to Berard his nepos , and Henry II by writ directed abbot Hugh ( 1157-80 ) to give to Berard son of Aldstan seisin of land in Whelnetham late of William de Sapiston , whose heir Berard was.5 It appears that Aldstan was living when Anselm became abbot . " In the fourteenth century Berard was the name of a family seated at Whatfield . 


 
 
 In 1130 Edstan owed 100s . of the property of Ulchetel the moneyer in Norfolk . " Possibly he was the father of Walter son of Edstan or Elstan who accounted in 1162 for 40s . of his donum in Norfolk.8 


 
 
 Of the various Cockfield families the clearest account is given of that of Cockfield itself , in the Chronicle of Jocelin de Brakelond . In the time of abbot Samson , c . 1185 , Robert de Kokefeld claimed to hold this manor by hereditary right ; he had no charter from the monks , but it had descended in the family for 60 years or more . One Lemmer held it before his death ; then his son Adam I till his death , Henry I having ordered abbot Anselm to allow him to hold it so long as he paid the accustomed rent ; Robert , the claim ant , succeeded his father Adam I. In the time of king Stephen the monks of St. Edmund's gave this Adam the vills of Semer and Groton because from his castle of Lindsey he could well defend them from neighbouring castellans , W. de Mildings and W. de Ambli being named . When Robert succeeded the rent of Semer was doubled , becoming £ 10 ; for Groton one farm ' ( or banquet ) had been due annually . There were no charters for these two vills , and Robert had to disclaim any hereditary right in them . Adam had a hall in Bury itself , and appears to have succeeded to land there of Hemphrey de Criketot , where the houses of dame Adelizia once stood . Robert had the convent charters for socage lands in Rougham held later in dower by the lady Rohais de Koke feld , widow of Adam II . The estate in Cockfield had originally been held in socage , but abbot Anselm , in Stephen's time , changed it to the service of half a knight . Robert de Cokefeld was also lord of Hopton.10 It appears that Adam I was the grandson of Wulfric who had had land in Groton.11 


 9 


 
 
 The mention of dame Adeliza and Hemfrey de Criketot is evidence of the connexion between the Cokefelds of Cockfield and those of Feltwell . Adeliza de Kokefeld , for the souls of the earl of Warenne , of her lord Adam de Kokefeld , her brother William de Crichetot and her son Alan - all , no doubt , then deceased - gave to Castle acre priory land in Feltwell rendering 7s . a year , and 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 377] ===
 
 
 HANGLETON , FELTWELL 361 


 
 
 this ' with the consent of my son Adam , who after my days is to inherit Feltwell according to my will . ' The charter was attested by Roger de Muntchenesy and Denise , Robert , Simon and Odo de Kokefeld.12 It does not appear whether Adam was a younger son to whom she bequeathed her land , or whether , as seems more probable , she was the second wife of Adam I. William de Crichetot , her brother , may have been the William father of Heimfrid de Criketot mentioned in a St. Edmund's plea of 1199 . 13 In 1162 Hugh Talebot granted to Beaubec abbey in Normandy his lands in Feltwell , from which 100s . yearly rent was to be paid by Aeliza de Cokefelt and Adam her son ; the grant was made with the assent of Hugh's wife Ermentrude and his sons Girard , Geoffrey , Hugh and Richard.14 Henry II confirmed the gift , 15 as did William Talbot at a later date.16 An episode of 1171 , described below , may have had some connexion with this benefaction . The story of this branch of the Cokefeld family is related hereafter . 


 In 1166 Robert de Cokefeld held 3 fees of earl Aubrey de Ver ( in Beaumont , Essex ) ; 1 fee of new feoffment of the bishop of Ely in Kersey , ( ? ) Suffolk ; 1 fee of the abbot of St. Edmund's ( in Whatfield and Naughton ) ; I fee of new feoffment of Roger Bigod.17 In 1171 Robert was a surety for Simon de Methelwold's amerce ment , who had forcibly removed corn from the land of Feltwell , Norf . , while it was in the king's hands ; 18 and in 1175 Robert accounted for one moiety of Simon's amercement of 100 marks.19 Robert gave to his sister Alice in frank marriage with William de Valoignes land in Chedburgh and Hitcham , Suff . , and had another sister , Sabina wife of Robert son of Humphrey.20 


 In 1176 Eudo de Cokefeld , named above as witnessing a Castle acre charter , was amerced 2 marks , and in the following year Robert de Cokefeld 100 marks , in Essex for pleas of the forest.21 Robert's debt was charged by the sheriff of Norfolk in 1178 , but ' required ' in Essex . Robert de Kokefeld , son of Odo , had land in Barton about 1180 , the charters being in the custody of the Cokefelds of Cockfield.22 


 
 
 In the period 1175-1180 Robert de Cokefeld , with the assent of his sons Hugh and Adam , who joined in the gift , granted the church of Beaumont , Essex , to Hatfield priory.23 In 1181 and 1182 Robert de Cokefeld was one of the farmers of the abbey of St. Edmund sede vacante.24 He died before 1191,25 and in the preceding year Adam son of Robert de Cokefeld accounted for 60 marks in Norfolk for his father's tithes.26 In 1191 Adam son of Robert de Cokefeld quitclaimed to abbot Sampson of St. Edmund's his right in the half - hundred of Cosford , for which the abbot assured to Adam his holdings in Layham , including 5 acres of ware ' in that vill which Adam grandfather of the said Adam gave to the chapel of St. James of Lindsey ( Leleseia ) , with land in What field , Naughton , ( Wordeseia ) , Lindsey and Brettenham.27 Possibly Robert had another son Robert who recovered in 1195 land in Frenze , Norf.28 


 
 
 In 1194 Adam de Cokefeld of Suffolk occurs as a witness from the court of St. Edmund's.29 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 378] ===
 
 
 362 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 In 1196 Adam de Cokefeld acknowledged to the abbot of St. Edmund's the service of 1 knight's fee in Naughton ( ? ' in Alneto ' ) and castle - guard of Norwich.30 He died shortly afterwards , while Richard I was still living , for the king claimed against abbot Samson the wardship of the heir , a daughter only three months . old ; desisting , however , in face of the abbot's protest.31 In 1198 the bishop of Ely and the abbot had a dispute concerning the wardship of the land of Adam de Cokefeld ; it was presented from Suffolk that the land late of Adam de Cokefeld was worth £ 98 12s . , besides Semer and Groton , Suff . , which were worth £ 6 ; the relict was to have her dower.32 The abbot could have sold the wardship of the heir for 300 marks , but , as the child's grandfather had carried her off and she could be recovered only through the archbishop of Canterbury , he gave the wardship to the archbishop ( Hubert Walter ) for £ 100 , and then the grantee sold it for 500 marks to Thomas de Burgh , brother of the king's chamberlain , Hubert , who at once claimed the father's manors.33 In consequence at Easter 1201 Margaret , as daughter and heir , being of course still under age , obtained from the St. Edmund's monks a recognition of her right to the manor of Cockfield ; of two other manors , Semer and Groton , she recovered her seisin by verdict of the jurors and judgment of the court that Adam de Cokefeld , father of Robert , long and peacefully held the two manors and died in seisin , and Robert his son similarly held them all his life and Adam his son , father of the said Margaret , similarly , and died so seised.34 In December 1201 Thomas de Burgh , who had the heiress of Adam de Cokefeld , was pardoned £ 133 which had been claimed against . him by Jewry by the charter of Robert de Cokefeld , father of the said Adam.35 In 1204 Thomas de Burgh had licence to enclose his house of Lindsey ( with a moat ? ) . 3 


 36 


 Rohaise de Cokefeld , widow of Adam II , has been mentioned above . After the decease of Thomas de Erdinton in 1216 , Rohaise de Cokefeld , late his wife , obtained in 1218 and in 1220 dower in his lands , including 5 marks rent in Worthy , Hants.37 Erdinton . had held at his death , of the dower of his wife Rohaise , Beaumont , in Essex , Rougham , Suff . , Diddington , Warws . , and Pattishall , Northants.38 A fine of lands in Cockfield , Semer and Groton was levied in 1219 between Rohaise widow of Adam de Cokefeld and Thomas de Burgh and Nesta his wife 39 respecting Rohaise's dower . By this it was agreed that Rohaise should release all claim to her third part of the lands named , and in return should have Beaumont and Rougham for life without any dispute as to admeasurement . 


 Nesta de Cokefeld , who seems to be the same as Margaret the heir of Adam de Cokefeld , was married at least three times . Her first husband was Thomas de Burgh named above ; her second husband , whom she married before 1240 , was John de Beauchamp , who then joined with her in assuring to the prior of St. Anthony of Kersey the advowson of the church of Kersey , by fine to which Bartholomew de Crek , William de Beaumont , Hugh bishop of Ely , and the abbot of St. Edmund's put in their respective claims ; her third , in or before 1242 , Matthew de Leyham.41 As late wife 


 40 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 379] ===
 
 
 HANGLETON , FELTWELL 363 


 
 
 of Thomas de Burgh , the said Nesta confirmed to the brethren of Kersey the mother church of that vill and tithe of her mills of Cockfield , Semer , Lindsey and Kersey , Suff.42 By another charter she confirmed to the same brethren the church of Kersey and the gifts which she and her late husband , John de Beauchamp , had made.43 By a third charter she confirmed to them in her widow hood the church of Lindsey , 44 and by a fourth charter , with the consent of her then husband , Matthew de Leyham , she similarly confirmed rents in Lindsey.45 


 In 1243 in a plea of warranty of charter William le Breton obtained from Matthew de Leyham and Nesta his wife an acknow ledgment of his right in the manor of Beaumont , Essex , and that of Rougham , Suff . , which Rohaise de Cokefeld , mother of Nesta , held in dower of Nesta's inheritance ; for the reversion after the death of Rohaise of these manors Breton paid 200 marks ; at the time Rohaise was feeble at Erdington , Warws . , the manor of her last husband , Thomas de Erdinton . " In the preceding year she had been the victim in a case of assault and robbery in which Matthew de Leyham ( her son - in - law ) and William son of Robert . were implicated.47 


 Nesta died without issue before 1248 , in which year the abbot of St. Edmund's was ordered to render to Bartholomew de Crek , Ralph de Berners and William de Beaumont a carucate in Groton except the advowson of the church , 3 carucates in Semer except the advowson of the church , to which premises his predecessor abbot Henry had intruded , while Nesta de Cokefeld , whose heirs the said Bartholomew , Ralph and William were , lay dying and of unsound mind , by virtue of a demise made by Matthew de Leyham , formerly Nesta's husband , to John de Cramavill without Nesta's consent.48 It was presented in 1275 that Henry abbot of St. Edmund's had acquired the manor of Cockfield from Matthew de Leyham and Nesta his wife to hold of the king in chief for 3 fees , of which Henry de Cokefeld then held 1 fee , Thomas de Weyland I fee , John de Falsham and Robert de Lindholt each fee.49 


 
 
 46 


 
 
 In a plea in 1210 another Robert de Kokefeld , as attorney for his mother Philippa , demanded against his mother's warrantor an exchange in lieu of land ( fee ) in Kettleburgh , Suff . , which had been successfully demanded against her . 50 The identity of this Robert has not been discovered . The exchange was given in Redingham and Coleston . 


 We now return to Adam de Cokefeld , son of Aeliza de Cokefeld of Feltwell , named above under date 1162. He seems to be the Adam de Cokefeld who in 1180 was amerced for a default in Sussex . 51 In the chartulary of Lewes there is an agreement between an Adam de Cukufeld with the monks of Lewes respecting 10 librates of land in Hangleton.52 We can identify him as the Adam de Cokefeld who with Lucy his wife confirmed to the nuns of La Pré of Northampton land in Sherrington , Bucks . , given by Robert de Tenerchebrai and Aveline his wife . The same Lucy gave to the said priory a rent out of Sherrington which her grandson Robert de Cokefeld later confirmed , 53 53 Adam de Cokefeld gave to 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 380] ===
 
 
 364 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 1 


 Castle acre priory a toft in Feltwell and land from his demesne , for the souls of his parents , his wife Lucy , and her mother Aveline ; Helias de Hangeltun was a witness to this deed . 54 Possibly Adam was dead in 1185 , when a mutilated entry records the tenure of 12 librates of land in ‘ Sniterle ' ( now Blakeney ) , Norf . , by ( Lucy ? ) de Cokefeld ( ? ) . 55 He must have been dead in 1194 , when a plea between Lucy de Cokefeld and Hugh Peverel was pending.56 She and the same Hugh released land in Swanbourn , Bucks . , in 1196 for land in Stewkley , which Hugh was to hold of Lucy for knight's fee.57 In the same year William abbot of Bittlesden had a plea of intrusion in Sherrington , Northants . ( sic ) , against Lucy de Cokefeld . 58 Two years later Lucy made an agreement with Otuel de L'Isle for an exchange of lands in Stoke Lyne , Oxon.59 Lucy , by her attorney , Ralph de Tenerchebrai , had demanded against Otuel land in Stoke as that whereof Robert de Tenerchebrai ( her ) father had been seised in the days of Henry II.60 In 1199 she was successful in resisting a claim made against her to 8 messuages . in Cambridge.61 Reference to her and her son Adam in Sussex pleas in 1199 will be found above at nos . 5 and 8 . 


 In 1159 Robert de Tenerchebrai was pardoned 2 marks of the donum of 252 marks of the knights of Nottinghamshire . 62 In 1163 he accounted for a mark for waste of the forest in Northampton shire . 63 In 1167 Little Oakley ( ' Acheleia ' ) of Robert de Tenerche brai was amerced for forest trespass and the land of William de Tenerchebrai in the same county of Northampton was similarly amerced . 64 In 1176 Ralph de Tenerchebrai accounted for 40s . for the same pleas in that county.65 Little Oakley was an escheat from the fee of Chokes and was held in the time of Henry I ( 1124– 29 ) by William Fitz - Alvered , ancestor of Montacute and possibly father of Richard Fitz - William . 66 See vol . i , pp . 199–200 . 


 Robert de Tenerchebrai and William Peverel of Sampford Peverel , Som . , were first cousins , being sons of two brothers . In 1194 , after Robert's death , Hugh Peverel , son and heir of William , demanded against Lucy de Cokefeld , daughter and heir of Robert , the inheritance of the said Robert , alleging that Lucy was born of Robert's wife before he married her and so was a bastard ; the land demanded lay in Swanbourn , Bucks . , Little Oakley , Northants . , and Stoke Lyne , Oxon.67 The result is not recorded , but in Hilary term 1196 Richard Fitz - William ( de Montacute ) , Hugh Peverel and Lucy de Cokefeld were given a day in Mid - lent and had licence to agree in a plea of land in Oxfordshire . 68 In that term Hugh Peverel and Henry de Clinton made agreement about an exchange for fee in Swanbourn , which Hugh and Lucy de Cokefeld had claimed against Henry by warranty of the charter of his father Geoffrey de Clinton ; whereupon Henry gave them 72 solidates ( ? ) of land in Stewkley , namely 12 virgates , 8s . of rent and 8 score acres of land in places named.69 This agreement was reached in 1195 , for it was enrolled in the Pipe roll of that year.70 Adam son of the same Lucy was tenant in 1205 of fee , Little Waldingfield , Suff . , of earl Aubrey de Ver , who held of the honor of Lancaster . " This was held in 1235-6 and 1242-3 by Robert 


 2 


 
 
 1 


 4 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 381] ===
 
 
 HANGLETON , FELTWELL 365 


 
 
 de Cokefeld , apparently the son of Adam.72 Lucy de Cokefeld held in 1201 of the honor of Gloucester I fee in Moulton , Suff . 73 This tenement was held similarly by Robert de Cokefeld in 1242–3.74 In 1212 the heir of Adam de Cokefeld was stated to hold 2 fees in Moulton of the archbishop of Canterbury.75 In 1214 custody of the land and heir of Adam de Cokefeld was acquired by the crown from Geoffrey de Mandevill for 300 marks and granted to Thomas de Erdinton ; the lands lay in Essex , Norfolk , Suffolk , Sussex , Cambridgeshire and Oxfordshire . 76 This was clearly the heir of Adam son of Lucy . About the same time the heir of another ( ? ) Adam de Cokefeld was committed to the custody of Richard de Rivers.77 In 1216 the sheriff of Oxford was directed to ascertain by inquiry if Adam de Cokefeld formerly held any thing in that county of the king in chief , and , if he so held , to give Thomas de Erdinton seisin of the manor of Stoke ( Lyne ) late of the said Adam ; but if not to deliver the manor to Ellis de Beau champ.78 See Giffard , n . 25 . 


 
 
 There is some difficulty in identifying Robert de Cokefeld , the tenant of the honor of Warenne in Feltwell and Hangleton , owing to the circumstance that he had contemporaries of the same name . One Robert in 1229 agreed with Simon de Cokfeld concern ing a knight's fee in Cockfield , Bradfield and Corsford , and half a fee in Herterst and other lands ; Simon's right was acknowledged , but he gave Robert land in Wileby and Hapesburg which would revert to him if Robert had no issue . Claims were put in by Robert and Simon and Osbert de Cokefeld.79 Simon de Cokefeld and Isabel his wife occur in Nottinghamshire in 1247.80 There were also Robert , son of Adam de Cokefeld of Nutall , Notts . , and Agatha his wife ( Peverel , n . 32 ) , and Robert de Cokefeld , sheriff of York 1226-1229 , who married Nicholay , sister and coheir of Richard de St. Mary of Friston , Yorks . The last named was a prominent official in Yorkshire from 1225 to 1242 and was of Cockfield in Durham . 


 
 
 The Robert of Feltwell was the Robert de Cokefeld to whom Geoffrey de Harun in 1227 quitclaimed 1 knight's fee in Querelegh in Woodham Walter , Essex ; 81 to whom also John de Montacute in 1228 passed by fine two - thirds and the third part of the manor of Little Oakley , Northants . 82 The same Robert held the tenement in Querelegh in 1242-3 of Robert Fitz - Walter as of the barony of Baynard . He also held 1 fee in Hangleton , Suss . , of Thomas de Poninges ( n . 8 ) , as of the honor of Warenne ; 84fee in Little Waldingfield , Suff . , of the honor of Lancaster ; 85 fee in Snitterby } ( now Blakenham ) , and I fee in Feltwell , Norf . , of the honor of Warenne 86 ; possibly also fee in Wilby ( and ) Happisburgh , Norf . , of Robert Fitz - Walter , 87 and 1 fee in Sherrington , Bucks . , of John de Carun.88 


 
 
 Robert de Cokefeld in 1250 settled upon Robert his son 2 carucates in Hangleton and Alderton , Suss.89 In 1257 , at the instance of William de Valence , he had exemption for life from serving on assizes and the like.90 He must not be confounded with Robert de Cokefeld who married Alice , nor his son Adam 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 382] ===
 
 
 366 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 with the Adam de Cokefeld who married Isabel , which Alice and Isabel were sisters and coheirs of Geoffrey le Constable of Briston and Irmingland , Norf . By a partition made in 1254 Robert and Alice took land in Snitterby , Adam and Isabel land in Briston , Irmingland and Langham.91 


 In 1263 Adam son of Robert de Cokefeld was a tenant of Matthew de Luvaine in Swilland , Suff . , Little Chesterford and Wix , Essex . 92 In 1265 Adam was a rebel , his land in Debenham and Flitcham , Norf . , being seized into the king's hands . 93 In 1267 he had licence . to hunt the fox , hare , badger and cat in the forest in the counties . of Rutland , Northampton and Oxford , being described as of Suffolk and Northants . ; 94 and had a grant of free warren in Little Waldingfield and Debenham , Suff.95 Two years later he had exemption for life , at the instance of Robert Aguillon , from serving on juries and the like.96 In 1275 he held fee in Feltwell , Norf . , of the earl of Warenne , 97 and in conjunction with Robert Dyvenes . ( recte de Aygeuens ) held 1 fee in Moulton of the earl of Gloucester.98 He does not occur after 1276 , unless he was the Adam de Cokefeld who was returned in 1284-6 as holding of John de Cokefeld a moiety of the vill of Sherrington , Bucks.99 


 In 1283 Robert de Cokefeld had a grant of market and fair at his manor of Feltwell , Norf.100 In 1284-5 John de Cokefeld held of Robert de Cokefeld , who held of the earl of Cornwall and he of the earl of Gloucester , fee in Stoke Lyne , Oxon .; 101 William de Nonancurt held the vill of Guilsborough , Northants . , of Robert de Cokefeld.102 In 1290 lands in Guilsborough and Little Oakley , Northants . , were held of Sir Robert de Cokefeld.¹ 103 In 1291 Robert de Cokefeld held Hangleton and a moiety of Aldrington of the earl of Warenne.104 Luke de Poninges demised to the same Robert for the term of his life the manor of Hangleton to hold by rendering 40s . at a scutage , which signifies that the service was that of one knight.105 In 1294 certain persons were alleged to have impeded Ermentrude de Sauquevill , Joan late wife of Adam de Cokefeld , and Roger de Aspehale from holding their market anywhere within their manor of Debenham.106 


 
 
 Robert de Cokefeld died in 1297 , holding the ( South Hall ) manor in Feltwell of the earl of Warenne for I fee ; the manor of Moulton , Suff . , of Joan countess of Gloucester and Hertford , whose lands were then in the king's hands , of the honor of Gloucester for I fee ; the manor of Waldingfield , Suff . , of William de Munt chenesy of Edwardstone for I fee and part of his manor of Little Waldingfield of the honor of Lancaster for fee ; Joan sister of the said Robert and daughter of Adam de Cokefeld , aged 23 years , was his heir.107 


 
 
 In 1302-3 Joan de Cokefeld held 1 fee in Debenham of the earl Marshal.108 In 1316 she was joint lady of Stoke Lyne , Oxon.109 . In 1314 John de Ayguens and the heirs of Robert de Cokefeld held 2 fees in Moulton of the honor of Gloucester.110 In 1322 a moiety of the manor of Little Oakley , Northants . , was held of Joan de Cokefeld for fee.111 


 Joan de Cokefeld married first John Tregoz of Ewyas ( d . 1301 ) , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 383] ===
 
 
 HANGLETON , FELTWELL 367 


 
 
 and secondly Lawrence de Hameldene , who in 1302-3 held 1 fee in Little Waldingfield of the earl of Oxford as of the honor of Lancaster , and with Joan his wife held 1 fee in Feltwell of the earl of Warenne.112 In 1302 the said Lawrence had been pardoned for taking to wife Joan late wife of John Tregoz , tenant in chief.113 Joan married thirdly William de Beauchamp , 114 and in 1314 the manor of Feltwell was settled upon them and the heirs of Joan . " In 1324 William de Beauchamp held of Aymer de Valence , earl of Pembroke , I fee in Feltwell , 116 and in 1346 he held jointly with others I fee in Debenham which Joan de Cokefeld had held in 1302-3.117 


 115 


 
 
 Returns made in 1401-2 shew that Robert de Cokefeld , chivaler , and others held in East Tudenham a manor called Cokefeld Hall and Holewelle Hall , for I fee of Thomas Bardolf as of the barony of Wormegay , and the same Robert ( with the heirs general of Geoffrey le Constable ) held 3 fees in Melton , Sharrington , Langham and Sniterlee of the bishop of Norwich.118 


 
 
 48. Close R. 106 , 120 . 


 1. N. Hamilton , Inq . Com . Cant . 194. 2. Dom . Bk . ii . 359 , 368b - 9 , 426 . 3. W. Farrer , Itin . of Henry I , n . 461. 4. Suff . Institut . of Archæolog . x . 5. Add . MS . 7096 , f . 91 , 91d . 32 . 6. Ibid . f . 90. 7. Pipe R. 31 Hen . I , 94 . 8. Ibid . 8 Hen . II , 64. 9. Chron . of Bury St. Edm . ( Rolls Ser . ) , i . 334-5 . 10. Ibid . 265 . 11. Add . MS . 7096 , f . 75. 12. Harl . MS . 2110 , f . 93d . 13. R. Cur . Regis , ii . 10 . 14. Harl . ch . 112 D. 57 15. Ibid . III B. 48. 16. Add . Ch . 19804 ; cf. Brit . Mus . Facsimiles of Ch . n . 60 . 17. Red Bk . 352 , 364 , 393 , 397. 18. Pipe R. 17 Hen . II , 1O . 19. Ibid . 21 Hen . II , 116. 20. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 1100. 21. Pipe R. 23 Hen . II , 150-1 . 22. Chron . Jocel . ( Rolls Ser . ) , i . 335. 23. Add . Ch . 28333. 24. Pipe R. 27 Hen . II , 93 ; Chron . Jocel . i . 216 , 218. 25. Chron . Jocel . i . 262. 26. Pipe R. 2 Ric . I , m . 9d . 27. Feet of F. ( P.R.S. xvii ) , 9 . 28 Ibid . 39. 29. R. Cur . Regis , i . 16-17 . 30. Feet of F. ( P.R.S. xx . ) , 44 . 31. Chron . Jocelin , i . 298. 32. R. Cur . Regis , iii . 33 , 36. 33. Chron . Jocelin , i . 321. 34. R. Cur . Regis , iii . 430 . 35. R. de Liberate , 24 . 36. Ibid . 104. 37. Ibid . 356b - 7 , 440b ; R. Lit. Pat . 169b . 38. Cal . Inquis . i . 287 . 39. Suff . Feet of F. 212/6 , n . 24. 40. Feet of F. , Suff . 44. 41. Ibid . 46 . 42. Mon. Angl . vi . 592. 43. Ibid . 5926. 44. Ibid . 593. 45. Ibid . 5936. 46. Feet of F. , Essex , 146. 47. Close R. 448 ; Excerpt . Fin . i . 377 . Cf. Abbrev . Placit . 237 49. R. Hund . ii . 142 , 150b - 1 . 50. Curia Regis R. 68 , m . 6d . 51. Pipe R. 26 Hen . II , 31 . 52. Vesp . F. xv . f . 53. Mon. Angl . v . 212b . 54. Harl . MS . 2110 , f . 93d . 55. R. de Dominabus , 56. 56. R. Cur . Regis , i . 89. 101. 57. Feet of F. ( P.R.S. xvii . ) , n . 138 ; xxiv . p . 241. 58. Ibid . 236 . 59. Ibid . xxiv . n . 49. 60. R. Cur . Reg . iii . 60 . 61. Ibid . 71 . 62. Pipe R. 5 Hen . II , 52. 63. Ibid . 9 Hen . II , 36. 64. Ibid . 13 Hen . II , 118 , 121 . 65. Ibid . 22 Hen . II , 51. 66. V. C. H. Northants . i . 387 . 67. R. Cur . Reg . i . 46. 68. Ibid . ( P.R.S. xxiv . ) , 221 . 69. Ibid . 241 ; Feet of F. ( P.R.S. xvii . ) , 122-5 . 70. Beds . Rec . Soc . vii . 103. 71. Lancs . Pipe R. 198 ; Red Bk . 141 , 478. 72. Testa , 411b and 291b , 73. R. Cancel . 339 ; Red Bk . 141. 74. Testa , 2926 . 75. Red Bk . 471 , 726 . Claus . i . 140b , 159 . 77. Ibid . 156. 78. Ibid . 2726. 79. Feet of F. Divers and Unkn . Counties , 283/9 , n . 67. 80. Ibid . 283/12 , n . 222. 81. Feet of F. , Essex , 81. 82. Feet of F. , N'hants . 12 Hen . III . 83. Testa , 263 , 284 . 84. Ibid . 2226. 85. Ibid . 291b . 88. Ibid . 287b . 87. Ibid . 282b . 88. Ibid . 244. 89. Feet of F. , Suss . n . 514. 90. Cal . Pat . R. 578. 91. Feet of F. , Norf . 86. 92. Ibid . Essex , 260. 93. Cal . Misc . Ing . i . 248 , 273. 94. Cal . Pat . R. 54 , 149–50 . 95. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 73 . Hund . i . 438. 98. Ibid . ii . 142 , 150b – 151 . 99 . Chart . R. ii . 265. 101. Feud . Aids , iv . 157 . Inquis . ii . 476. 104. Feud . Aids , v . 129. 105. Feet of F. , Suss . n . 1062 . 106. Abbrev . Placit , 233b . 107. Cal . Inquis . iii . 256 , 308. 108. Feud . 


 76. R. Lit. 


 96. Cal . Pat . R. 325. 97. R. Feud . Aids , i . 82. 100. Cal . 102. Ibid . 442 . 103. Cal . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 384] ===
 
 
 368 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 Aids , v . 92-3 . vi . 234 . 


 Cal . Pat . R. 527. 114. Ibid . 211 . 116. Cal . Inquis . vi . 331 , 335 . iii . 632-3 . 


 
 
 110. Cal . Inquis . v . 348. 111. Ibid . 113. Cal . Fine R. i . 449 ; 115. Blomefield , Hist . of Norf . i . 499 . 117. Feud . Aids , v . 92-3 . 


 118. Ibid . 


 
 
 109. Ibid . iv . 169 . 


 112. Feud . Aids , iii . 427 ; v . 28 . 


 
 
 XIV . 


 Wickensands , in Sussex , is not named in the survey . 


 In 1199 Hugh de Fokinton ( n . 11 ) , who essoigned himself of sickness of the bed at Folkington , Suss . , was plaintiff in a plea of relief against Thomas de la Mare and Matilda de la Mare.¹ Egelina de Fokinton had a similar plea against the same Thomas and Mabel ( sic ) .2 


 
 
 In 1203 Henry de la Mare had a grant of 30 librates of land of escheat.³ In 1205 the sheriff of Sussex was directed to give Henry de la Mare such seisin of his land of Wickensands ( ' Sanda ' ) as he had when he withdrew from the king's service , saving the chattels of Hugh de Sanford who late had custody of that land . In 1207 the earl of Warenne had respite for payment of 40 marks for surety of Henry de la Mare.5 In 1210 Henry de la Mare of Normandy was in the army of Ireland . " 


 Pain de la Mare was in possession of land in Hurstpierpoint in 1229,7 and in Sharnwick and ( West ) Blatchington in 1241 , when he acknowledged the right of Stephen le Mareschal in land . in those places by fine , whereupon Henry de la Mare put in a claim for himself and the heir of the earl Warenne . In 1242-3 Pain de la Mare held fee in Wickensands ( ' Sandes , ' ' Sandys ' ) of the fee of the said earl.⁹ 


 
 
 In 1245 


 In January 1241 there was issued an order for the delivery of the chattels found in the manor of Garsington to Roger de Clere ( n . 12 ) , subject to the claim or right of the executors of Ralph de Tony.10 Roger de Akeny was probably deceased that year holding land in Garsington of the heir of Ralph de Tony then in the king's wardship ; his land in Garsington was demised at farm for £ 20 a year by the king to St. John's Hospital , Oxford.11 Joan de Akeny was then claiming dower in Garsington.12 In the following year queen Eleanor gave to Bernard de Savoy the custody of Isabel younger daughter and coheir of Roger de Akeny , with her land in Garsington which fell to her and her marriage , if the matri mony before contracted with her ought not to stand.13 the abbess of Wherwell was directed to deliver the said Isabel , who was in her charge by the king , to Matthias ( Mazius ) de la Mare , to be taken where the king directed . 14 See Abingdon , n . 17 ( 1 ) . Evidently the damsel was married soon after to Pain de la Mare . In 1244 Pain was the king's messenger sent to Gascony , 15 and in 1250 he had a rent out of hide in Garsington of the fee late of Roger de Akeny.16 It was presented in 1255 that Pain de la Mare held 1 hide in Garsington which belonged to the manor of Headington which the king's grandfather ( i.e. Henry II ) gave to dame Ida de Tounay ; it was worth £ 20 a year.17 See Abingdon , n . 17 ( 2 ) . In 1254 the same Pain had a grant of free warren in his 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 385] ===
 
 
 WICKENSANDS 369 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 demesne lands in the counties of Oxford and Sussex , and in the same year he had exemption from serving on juries and the like , at the instance of Matthew ( sic ) de la Mare.18 In 1256 he went to Jersey in the service of Edward the king's son . 


 19 


 2 


 In 1279 dame Isabella de la Mare held the manor of Garsington of Roger de Tony for fee ; 20 land there held of her by Philip Mimecan was said to be held of Isabel Rapin in 1264.21 In 1284-5 John Pecche held the manor of Garsington in the name of Isabel de la Mare , his wife , for fee of Roger de Tony.22 In 1286 John de la Mare had land in Perching , Suss . , and in 1288 John de la Mare of Sussex was named.23 Probably he married Joan , elder daughter of Nicholas de Auney of Bergholt , who died in 1274 , the said Joan being then unmarried and under age.24 In 1286 he defended his right of warren in Bergholt which he enjoyed jointly with John son of Pain de la Mare of the inheritance of Roger de Akeny and with Thomas de Maydenhatch and Isabel his wife . 25 Also the king demanded against John son of Pain de la Mare and John de la Mare 2s . of rent in Bergholt due to the hundred of Saunford ; they claimed to hold the tenement as of the inheritance of Roger de Akeny ; view of frankpledge of the tenants of Nicholas de Auney was claimed by John de la Mare , Thomas de Mayden - Hatch and Isabel his wife , namely John in pourparty with John son of Pain de la Mare his parcener of the inheritance above named ; Thomas and Isabel by the grant and gift of H. ( recte Isabel ) , mother of John son of Pain de la Mare , whose heir he was , and they vouched the said John to warranty.26 


 
 
 In 1302-3 John de la Mare held the vill of Bergholt , Suff . , of Robert de Tony , 27 and in 1305 Walter Baldwyne held land there of the inheritance of Joan his wife of John de la Mare.28 Joan de la Mare was joint lady of Garsington in 1316,29 being relict of John de la Mare , who died in 1315 as of Garsington , Oxon . , holding the manor of Sonde , Sussex , and the hamlet of Wyke ( now Wicken sands ) of John de Warenne , earl of Surrey , for fee , and the manor of Garsington of the heirs of Robert de Tony in free socage ; his wife Joan was then pregnant and Isabel his sister , late the wife of Thomas de Maydenehatch , aged 50 , was next heir apparent.30 The said Isabel died 17 April 1318 , holding the tenements named above whereof Joan late wife of John de la Mare had dower in Wickensands ; Isabel also held for life the manor of Aston by Birmingham by feoffment to Thomas de Maydenhatch and the said Isabel his wife and the heirs of Thomas , held of Henry de Erdington ; also the manor of Bergholt , Suff . , of William de la Zouche and Alice his wife , sometime countess of Warwick , of the said Alice's inheritance ; her daughters - Joan , aged 30 , married to John D'Aundely ( Oilli , n . 8 ) , Sibyl , aged 28 , Isabel , aged 26 , and Margaret , aged 25 - were her heirs.31 


 
 
 1. R. Cur . Reg . i . 272 , 276 . 4. R. Lit. Claus . i . 49b , 5ob . 


 7. Sussex , Feet of F. nos . 225 , 259 . 


 10. Excerpt . e R. Fin . i . 334 . 


 11 . 


 III . 


 
 
 2. Ibid . 282 . 5. Ibid . 99b . 


 8. Ibid . n . 358 . Excerpt . Fin . i . 345 . 


 
 
 3. R. de Liberate , 46 . 6. R. de Prestito , 228 . 9. Testa , 222b . 12. Close R. 260 . 


 2 B 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 386] ===
 
 
 370 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 14. Close R. 314 . 


 15. Cal . Pat . 422 . 


 16. Cal . 19. Ibid . 


 13. Cal . Pat . R. 283 . Inquis . i . 48. 17. R. Hund . ii . 39. 18. Cal . Pat . R. 312 , 318 . 469. 20. R. Hund . ii . 720b . 21. Cal . Inquis . i . 178. 22. Feud . Aids , iv . 159 . 23. Cal . Inquis . ii . 361 ; Cal . Close R. 513. 24. Cal . Inquis . ii . 123 . 25. Placit . de quo war . 725 . 26. Ibid . 733 . 27. Feud . Aids , v . 26 . 28. Cal . Inquis . iv . 193 . 29. Feud . Aids , iv . 168 . 30. Cal . Inquis . v . 387. 31. Ibid . v . 98 . 


 
 
 XV . 


 In Sussex William de Warenne had in 1086 in Ditchling 33 hides , of which Warin held of him 3 hides . 


 
 
 Warin the sheriff gave to Lewes a garden at the vivary and his tithes of Kingston ( by Lewes ) ; William 2nd earl of Warenne confirmed to Lewes the tithes of 2 hides in Kingston ; he also confirmed 1 hide in Kingston which Ailwin de Wincestre held ; 1 and Henry I confirmed to Lewes the gift of a rustic named Brihmer and the land that he held of Ralph son of Warin.2 William 3rd earl of Warenne commanded Hugh the sheriff of Lewes to give to the monks of Lewes seisin of 1 acre of land in Kingston given by Peter the sheriff.³ 


 Warin de Kingeston attested with Richard de Pierpont , Philip de Kingeston , and others a Lindfield , Suss . , charter of the 12th century.4 


 In 1229 Warin de Kingeston was called to warranty by Robert de Kingeston respecting the mill of Kingston . In 1242-3 the same Warin held fee in Kingston of the fee of the earl Warenne . " He attested with Sir John de Gatesden an Ovingdean charter . " Walter de Kingeston attested a charter of land in Little Hampton , near Arundel . He was coroner of Arundel in 1275 , acting in the half hundred of Suthover , near Lewes.9 


 8 


 Philip de Kingeston held ( in 1346 ? ) in Kingston in Swanborough hundred fee.10 


 
 
 1. Above , p . 311. 2. Anct . D. ( Pipe R. Soc . ) , 5 . Warren , i . 129. 4. Cat . of Anct . D. iii . A. 4133 . n . 247. 6. Testa , 222b . 7. Cat . of Anct . D. iii . A. 4120 . 9. R. Hund . ii . 209b . 10. Feud . Aids , v . 161 . 


 
 
 5 . 


 3. Watson , House of Sussex , Feet of F. , 8. Ibid . B. 4176 . 


 
 
 XVI . 


 In Norfolk in 1086 William de Warenne held in Fincham 2 carucates which William Brant held ; in Feltwell I carucate which Simon held ; in Northwold some part of 5 carucates ; in Rockland All Saints part of 3 carucates and 70 acres which Simon held ; in North Barsham I carucate and another carucate which Reiner held ; in Houghton I carucate which Simon held and 30 acres which a sochman held ; in Wiveton 2 carucates , in Gresham 2 carucates , in Salthouse 30 acres , in Aylmerton 2 carucates ; in Barwick 1 carucate which Simon held ; in South Creake carucate . 


 I 


 In Suffolk William de Warenne held in Middleton 2 carucates . In Essex William de Warenne held in Great Easton 2 hides , in Little Canfield 2 hides less 8 acres , in Halstead 2 hides less 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 387] ===
 
 
 WHITCHURCH , GRESHAM 371 


 
 
 4 acres , of which Richard held 34 acres ; in Payton Hall in Manuden ( ' Pachenhou ' ) I hide and 30 acres which Simon held . 


 C 


 In Salop William de Warenne held Westune , ' now Whitchurch , of earl Roger for 7 hides . 


 
 
 The first earl of Warenne gave to St. Pancras , Lewes , the church of Little Canfield with a virgate and the tithes there and in Great Easton ; the second earl added the gift of the church of Feltwell.¹ In 1121 a carucate at Great Easton , the church of Little Canfield and a mediety of the church of Feltwell were confirmed to Lewes.2 


 3 


 The Simon named in the Domesday survey as tenant of William de Warenne in various places was the ancestor of the family of Rosei . Reference will be found below ( n . 31 ) to Richard Guet , who is described as brother of the countess of Warenne . It is probable that he was the Richard who held lands of William de Warenne in Essex , including Little Canfield , at the time of the survey . Richard de Guerres , whose tithes at Canfield were con firmed by Stephen to Lewes priory , may have been father of Manasser de Guerres , who succeeded his father in , or shortly before , 1130 , and was tenant of Geoffrey earl of Essex in 1166. Another Richard ' gave tithes and land in Canfield . This may be Guet . Certain other tenants of these lands were benefactors to Castleacre . Among them Ralph de Rosei gave land in Massingham of the fee of earl Hugh , and a rent in Rocklund ; 5 Martin de Bermere gave a manor in Barmer ; 6 Lambert de Rosei and his son Walcheline gave tithes in Houghton , Rocklund and Northwold ; Hugh de Hocton gave tithes ( in Houghton ) ; Nigil de Fincheam and William de Spinevill gave tithes ; Ralph de Paveli gave tithes of Northwold . William Branche attested a charter of William second earl of Surrey.8 


 4 


 7 


 
 
 It appears probable that an important part of this fee was parcel of the demesne of the earls of Warenne until the time of Stephen , when those lands and the service of other portions of this fee were given to a cadet of the house of Warenne , who is generally supposed to have been a younger brother of the third earl . The first feoffee was probably Randulf de Warenne , who may be identified as the Rad ' de War ' who attested the confirmation of William earl of Warenne to Lewes priory in 1145-46.9 He gave to the monks of Lewes a virgate at Great Easton , Essex ; William son of Randulf gave the tithe of land at Yeldham which Godwin had held.10 He attested in 1154 the grant to Sawtrey abbey of William count of Boulogne and earl of Warenne , ¹¹ and was donor of tithe of Middleton , Suff . ( ? ) , to Lewes priory , in which place Randulf de Warenne sometime gave a virgate which Gladiou the jester had held.12 


 
 
 In 1176 William son of Randulf was surety for a Shropshire suitor , and in the following year he was amerced 40 marks for pleas of the forest in Essex.13 In 1194 Walkelin de Rosei proffered 20s . for such seisin of 12s . rent and 6d . service of Harvey Gorge as Baldwin ( de Rosei ) had when he began his journey to Jerusalem.14 During the year 1199 there are frequent references to a plea between William Fitz - Randulf and Richard son of Peter respecting 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 388] ===
 
 
 372 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 a mediety of the church of Halstead , Essex.15 In 1200 William de Haustide put in his claim to a fourth part of that church 16 after a fine had been levied whereby Richard quitclaimed his right to William Fitz - Randulf.17 Mr. Eyton found in the Lilleshall chartu lary ( f . 75 ) a grant by William de Warenne , son of Randulf , with the consent of his heirs , to the canons of Lilleshall , for the soul of his ( late ) wife Emma , of a mediety of the church of Halstead , reserving a vicarage.18 He occurs several times on the roll of the sheriff of Essex for 1201 as owing scutage on knight's fee in that county , 19 and in that year was named as mesne ( ? ) tenant of a knight's fee in Dawley , Midd . , held of the honor of Wallingford by the Shropshire family of Corbet.20 William Fitz - Ranulf con firmed to Lewes the church of Canfield , as the earls of Warenne his antecessors had given it.21 See Wallingford , n . 28 , where other references to this family will be found . He was apparently deceased before 1203.22 


 
 
 In June 1213 the castle of ' Eggelawe ' was committed to the keeping of William de Blancmoster , who was son and heir of William Fitz - Randulf.2 He was of the party of the barons , whereupon his lands were seized , but in 1217 he returned to allegiance and had a writ of reseisin to the sheriff of Essex.24 In 1219 , when vouched to warranty by Matilda de Blancmoster , who was impleaded for land in Ickenham , Midd . , of which she alleged that she had been endowed by William Fitz - Randulf , formerly her husband , whose son and heir the said William the warrantor was , he was a crusader.25 In 1222 he demanded against John de Trumpington and Agnes his wife land in Ickenham which others . then claimed against Matilda de Blancmoster.26 In 1228 he was a special justice at Shrewsbury , 27 and in 1233 one of the collectors of the fortieth in Shropshire.28 In the last - named year Alan de Creppinges quitclaimed by fine to William de Blancmoster the advowson of a mediety of the church of Halstead . 29 Matilda de Blancmoster was alive in 1235-6,3⁰ and William de Blancmoster was vouched to warranty in 1238-9 by Matilda de Blancmoster in respect of land in Dawley , Midd.31 


 William Talebot gave to the monks of Castle Acre the church of St. Michael of Fincham , about the year 1190 , John bishop of Norwich and the archdeacons Thomas and John being witnesses.32 The gift was confirmed by his nephew Samson Talebot.33 Baldwin de Rosey confirmed to the same monks the gifts made by his ancestors in Enhale , Siderston , Northwold , Houghton , Rocklund and Creak ; Lambert de Rosey and William and Ralph de Spinevill were witnesses.34 Richard Branche , son and heir of William Branche , about 1230 gave the monks the disposition of tithes in Gresham according to the gifts of his ancestors , after the death of his son Simon , then rector , who had the tithes for his life.35 


 In 1242-3 certain members of this fee were held as under : 


 
 
 In Norfolk : 


 
 
 Samson Talebot 2 fees in Fincham . William de Spinevill fee in Feltwell . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 389] ===
 
 
 WHITCHURCH , GRESHAM 373 


 
 
 Baldwin de Rosey 1 fee in Rocklund . Baldwin de Rosey 1 fee in Houghton . 


 Robert Agellun and the prior of Binham fee in Wiveton and Salthouse . 


 Robert de Cokefeld fee in Sniterle , ' now Blakeney ( n . 13 ) . Peter Branche 2 fees in Gresham and Aylmerton . 


 Ralph son of Robert Wylekyn 1 fee in North Barsham . John de Rosey fee in South Creak . 


 William de Spinevill fee in Barmer.36 


 
 
 Peter Giffard fee in Wickham , Suff . , of William de Albo Monasterio , etc.37 


 
 
 In Essex in 1246–48 : 


 John de Rosey fee in Manuden of Baldwin de Rosey and he of Sir William de Blancmoster etc.38 


 
 
 In 1246 , owing to the passage of victuals through Whitchurch to the king's Welsh enemies , a mandate was issued to William de Warenne of Whitchurch to deliver the castle of Whitchurch to John de Grey , justice of Chester , 39 and later in the same year William son and heir of William de Warenne of Whitchurch ( ‘ de Albo Monasterio ' ) made fine in 20 marks for relief of the land which he held of the heir of William late earl Warenne in Shropshire , and had seisin of his fee , but the castle of Whitchurch was retained in the king's hands.40 


 In June 1260 William de Blancmoster was dead and John de Warenne claimed wardship of the land and heirs.41 Shortly afterwards the castle of Whitchurch and Bertreya the eldest daughter of William , then of age , were delivered to John de Warenne , of whom William had held the castle by knight's service.42 In 1269 William de Criketot died holding the manor of Middleton , Suff . , [ of the heirs ] of William de Blancmoster for 1 fee ; William his son was aged 31 years.43 


 
 
 In 


 In 1275 Thomas de Blancmoster claimed certain liberties in Little Canfield and William le Moyne in Great Easton , both claim ing free warren ; the monks of Tiltey held 70 acres of land in Easton by the feoffment of Ralph le Moyne 40 years before.44 Norfolk the prior of Shouldham and abbot of Derham held land in Fincham of the earl of Warenne ; 45 Ralph de Spintevill and Richard de Warenne had assize of bread in Feltwell ; 46 the prior of Castleacre held the advowson of the church of St. Michael , Fincham , of the gift of the ancestors of Adam Talbot who held of the fee of Warenne ; 47 John de Vaux had leet and other liber ties in Houghton ; 48 William de Wauncy claimed view of frank pledge in North Bassham ( n . 20 ) ; 49 Robert de Ufford had a market at Wickham , Suff.50 


 Bertreya de Blancmoster died unmarried in 1281 , holding a fourth part of the manor of ' Blaminister ' of the earl Warenne by the service of the fourth part of a huntsman ( sic ) to the earl at his will and at his cost ; in Great Easton , Essex , 2 carucates held by the service of 1 fee ; in Little Canfield land held for fee ; Eleanor L'Estrange ( who was the wife of Robert L'Estrange , 51 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 390] ===
 
 
 374 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 deceased in 1276 ) , Joan the wife of Sir William de Barentyn , knt . , and Matilda the wife of Sir William de Bracy were Bertreya's sisters and heirs , all over 30 years of age . 52 


 
 
 In 1286 Robert de Stutevill claimed certain liberties in Gres ham , Norf . , which his predecessor Peter Braunche had used temp . Henry III.53 In 1292 Hugh de Onovill ( recte Bogo de Knovill ) and Eleanor his wife , Robert de Bracy and Matilda his wife , in defending their right to free warren , market and fair and other liberties at Whitchurch , Salop , which they claimed as the pour party of Eleanor and Matilda of the inheritance of their father William de Blancmoster and of Joan late wife of William de Barentyn , declined to plead without the said Joan ; she was to be summoned in Middlesex . 54 In 1300 Robert Corbet and Joan de Barentyn held 1 fee in Dawley , Midd . , of the honor of Wallingford . For information relative to the heirs of Blancmoster see Eyton's History of Shropshire , x . 20-25 . 


 55 


 I 


 In 1302-3 the members of this fee , so far as they can be traced , were held as follows : 


 
 
 In Norfolk : 


 
 
 Samson de Litelwelle fee in Fincham . 


 Adam Talbot I fee in Fincham of William de Wancy . 


 Matilda de Rokelund and Henry Carbonel fee in Rocklund of John le Moigne and he of William de Blauncmoster etc. John le Moyne fee in Rocklund of William de Blaunc moster and he of the earl Marshal ( sic ) . 


 3 


 Henry son of Henry de Walpol 1 fee in Houghton of the . fee of Blaumoster . 


 
 
 Robert de Stutevill , 56 whose lands are in the king's hands by reason of the war between the kings of England and France , holds the manor of Gresham of the earl of Surrey for 2 fees . 


 2 


 Sir Nicholas Braunch fee in North Barsham of the fee of Blaumuster of the heirs of Blaumuster etc. 


 John de Cokefeld and Cecily his wife and Edmund Adel wald fee in South Creake of Sir Walter de Calthorp and he of John le Moygne etc. 


 Ivo de Berwyk holds the lands of Elvered le Knycht in Barmer for fee . 


 The prior of Castleacre fee in Barmer of the land of Elvered Knycht . 


 4 


 
 
 In Essex : 


 Drew de Barentyn and Robert de Bracy I fee in Great Easton ( Eystan atte Mounte ' ) and Little Canfield . 


 
 
 The prior of Lewes recovered the advowson of Canfield against Drew de Barentyne , who claimed as heir of his mother , Joan wife of William de Barentyn . 57 


 Some of the following are conjectural : 


 
 
 The prior of Lewes tyn ( ? ) ] . 


 
 
 fee in Halstead of Drew [ de Baren 


 
 
 : 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 391] ===
 
 
 HURSTMONCEAUX 375 


 
 
 1 


 William de St. Martin fee in Halstead . John son of William fee in Halstead . The Prioress of Hengham fee in Halstead . John son of Hugh fee in Halstead . Margery Blaumosteer fee in Halstead . 


 1 


 Roger de Mounchensy , John de Sutton and John Burser fee in Halstead . 58 


 
 
 In 1324 Fulk le Straunge , Drew le Barentyn , and the heirs of Fulk le Bracy held of Aymer de Valence 15 fees in Little Can field , Great Easton , Halstead , Manewden , Essex ; Rocklund , Northwold , Fincham , Barwick , ( South ) Creake , Feltwell , Houghton , Kelling , Salthouse , Wiveton , Snyterle ' ( Blakeney ) , ( North ) Barsham , Ikeburgh , Gresham and Aylmerton , Norf .; Clopton and Middleton , Suff.59 John de Botetourte similarly held I fee in Halstead , 60 but whether it was a member of this tenement or not is quite uncertain , nor has it been possible to ascertain how Botetourte acquired it . 


 
 
 In October 1326 John son of Walter de Blankmoster and Matilda his wife claimed the third part of a tenement in Halstead against John son of Simon de Stanley and Juliana his wife.61 


 
 
 3. Round , 


 1. Above , p . 311 . 


 2. Anct . Chs . ( P.R.S. x . ) , 13-14 . Cal . of Docs . , France , p . 512. 4. Ibid . 5. Harl . MS . 2110 , f . 18. 6. Mon. Anglic . v . 44 n . 8. Ibid . 49 . 


 7. Ibid . 50 . 


 9. Brit . Mus . , Facsim . 


 
 
 Chs . n . 25. 10. Mon. Angl . v . 14b . 11. Brit . Mus . , Facsim . Chs . n . 37 . 


 12. Above , p . 311. 13. Pipe R. 22 Hen . II , 56 ; 23 Hen . II , 151 . 14. Pipe R. 6 Ric . m . 4d . 15. R. Cur . Reg . i . 309 , 388 ; iii . pass . 16. Ibid . I77 . 17. Feet of F. , Essex , 21. 18. Eyton , Hist . of Salop , X. 17. 19. R. Cancel . 150 ff . 20. R. de Oblat . 158 ; R. Cancel . 276–8 . 21. Vesp . F. xv . f . 307 . 22. Eyton , op . cit . x . 18 . 23. R. Lit. Pat . 100 . 24. R. Lit. Claus . i . 375b . 25. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 59 . 26. Ibid . n . 1559 . 27. Pat . R. 223. 28. Cal . Pat . R. 18. 29. Feet of F. , Essex , 94. 30. Bk . of Fees , 474 . 31. Feet of F. , Midd . n . 183. 32. Chartulary , Harl . MS . 2110 , f . 88d . 33. Ibid . 34. Ibid . f . 42. 35. Ibid . f . 59. 36. Testa , 287. 37. Ibid . 2926. 38. Ibid . 271. 39. Cal . Pat . 490. 40. Excerpt . e R. Fin . i . 450 . 41. Cal . Pat . 77. 42. Ibid . So. 43. Cal . Inquis . i . 223 . 44. R. Hund . i . 157b . 45. Ibid . 459. 46. Ibid . 5426 . 47. Ibid . 459 . 48. Ibid . 526b . 49. Ibid . 455. 50. Ibid . ii . 1996. 51. Cf. Cat . of Anct . D. iii . D. 227 . 52. Cal . Inquis . ii . 226 . 53. Placit . de quo war . 498b . 54. Ibid . 680. 55. Cal . Inquis . iii . 480 ; Boarstall Chartul . 56. He died in 1306 , so seised ; Cal . Inquis . iv . 241. 57. Vesp . F. xv . f . 309. 58. Feud . Aids , ii . 143. 59. Cal . Inquis . vi . 330 , 334 . 60. Ibid . 61. De Banco 


 R. 264 , m . 118 . 


 
 
 XVII . 


 Hurstmonceaux is in the hundred of Foxearle , Suss . It is difficult to see what land , if any , in that vill belonged to the honor of Warenne . 


 1 


 William son of William and his mother gave to Lewes a yard land and pasture for 100 sheep ; Oculus Ferreus ' gave tithe at Hurst . In 1130 Ralph de Monceus was pardoned 20s . 6d . of danegeld in Sussex . Wibert's holding of the count of Eu in 1086 was 9 hides and 1 virgate , of which the danegeld would be 18s . 6d .; 1 hide on the honor of Warenne would make the total 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 392] ===
 
 
 376 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 danegeld 20s . 6d . William de Monceus was tenant of Oliver de Tracy of I knight's fee ( in Combe , Devon ( ? ) ) in 1166.3 


 Possibly the wife of William de Monceaus was the Idonea de Herste who gave her land in Broomhill , Suss . and Kent , to Roberts bridge abbey , for which the monks gave her a mark of silver and to Robert her son a talent of gold . The editors of the British Museum Facsimiles of Charters 4 date this gift c . 1176-80 . It was confirmed by Idonea's son and heir Waleran de Herste , who on his seal was named Waleran de Monceaus.5 Another possibility suggested by this charter is that Idonea was the wife of Walter de Herste who attested a charter of 1176 with Robert his son . " There is some reason to suppose that Idonea and the ancestress of Warberton were coheirs of Hurstmonceaux . 


 
 
 The descent of part of another inheritance of the line of Monceus is interesting . Certain lands in Hampshire , Wiltshire and Essex were held in 1130 by Robert Duisnell , who in that year had remission of danegeld in Wiltshire of 6s . and in Hamp shire of Ios . His daughter and heir Juliana married William Fitz - Aldelin , marshal to Henry II , who gave him Robert Doisnell's land with the heiress in marriage . In 1166 Hurst ( Monceux ) and Warbleton , Suss . , were held of John count of Eu for the service of 5 knights , but the name of the tenant or tenants is not recorded . These two manors had been held in 1086 by Wibert and descended to William his son and to Reinald de Ansevill , heir of William.¹º Little Maplestead , Essex , was also Juliana's inheritance ; it had been held at the survey by Osmund of John son of Waleran , the mill there being then mortgaged to William de Warenne.11 Little Ongar was also of the same inheritance and was held in 1086 by Roger ( of Fyfield ) of John son of Waleran.12 


 9 


 In 1162 William Fitz - Aldelin was pardoned danegeld in Hamp shire of 15s . and in Essex of 3s . 6d.13 Juliana daughter of Robert Doisnell , with the assent of her husband William Fitz - Aldelin , the king's sewer , in 1186 gave to the Hospitallers the vill of Little Maplestead with the church ; among the witnesses were Ralph Fitz - Aldelin and Ralph her husband's son.1 


 14 


 In 1198 in Teversham , Cambs . , 20 librates of land late of William Fitz - Aldelin by serjeanty of the marshalsea were the king's escheat in the hands of Stephen de Turneham.15 In 1199 William de Werbinton and Ingram de Monceaus gave 500 marks for the in heritance late of Juliana wife of William Fitz - Aldelin , whose next heirs they were.16 In 1204 William de Warberton gave 400 marks to have the land of Sherfield and Compton ( Monceux ) , Hants . , Teversham , Cambs . , and ( Little ) Ongar , Essex , which Hugh de Bosco held with him in ward , for which he had made fine with the king by 500 marks , but had paid only 200 marks.17 In the ensuing year Waleran de Monceus gave 100 marks for having his share of the inheritance late of Juliana formerly wife of William Fitz - Aldelin against William de Warberton , whose heirs he and the same William were , the esnecy falling to William , whereupon the sheriff of Hampshire was directed to make a partition of Juliana's land in Sherfield and Compton.18 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 393] ===
 
 
 HURSTMONCEAUX 377 


 
 
 Ingram de Monceux , son of Alan , was possibly father of Waleran de Monceux , and died before 1205.19 Waleran is thought to be the same person as Waleran de Herst , a Sussex visor in 1200.20 In 1212 Waleran de Hurst and William de Warberton each held 2fees in Sussex of the honor of the count of Eu ; 21 William de Warburton held Sherfield by serjeanty of the marshalsea in the king's house and Waleran de Monceus held Compton similarly ; in Essex William de Monceus held Little Ongar of the king , of the marshalsea , which was late of the barony of Gilbert de Toeni.23 ( See Round , The King's Serjeants , 92-96 . ) In 1210 William de Monceus , being in the army of Ireland , had a prest of 20s . upon his father , 24 in whose place he was no doubt serving . 


 22 


 Having been of the party of the barons , William de Monceus returned to allegiance in 1217 and had a writ of reseisin to the sheriff of Hampshire.25 In 1221 he had exemption from serving on assizes whilst a knight of the household of the earl of Warenne.26 In 1226 he was impleaded touching a tenement in Compton , 27 and in 1229 land in Hurst , Suss . , was released to him . In 1235-6 he held in Essex 2 fees of the countess of Eu.28 For some sub sequent years he served as a special justice ; down to 1241 he was constable of Lewes castle , an executor of the will of William earl of Warenne and keeper of his lands.29 William de Munceus gave I lb. of wax from land in Hedfeld Beigham for the souls of his father and mother , Waleran and Margaret , and of his wife Matilda.30 


 In 1242-3 William de Monceus held fee in Combe Monceaux , Devon , of Henry de Tracy of the honor of Barnstaple , 31 fee in 12242 Hurst , Suss . , of the honor of Warenne ; 32 fee in Compton , Hants . , golo by serjeanty of ancient feoffment of Thomas Mauduit ; it pertained . to the king's marshalsea , and out of the vill he rendered yearly to William de Warblinton £ 10 rent ; 33 in Sussex he also held 21 fees of the countess of Eu.34 He died in 1243 , when his land in Tevers ham , Cambs . , was temporarily committed to the king's bailee ; custody of the manor of Hurstmonceux , which he held of the countess of Eu , was committed to Bernard of Savoy until the heir's 


 35 


 full age.3 36 Out of his lands in Teversham and Little Ongar dower was assigned to Matilda late his wife in the last - named place.37 Thomas de Warblinton semes to have claimed custody of the manor of Hurstmonceux , 38 but unsuccessfully . 


 In 1252 Waleran de Monceaus had licence to chase hare , fox and cat in the forest of Southampton.39 In 1264 the lands of Waleran de Monceus in Hurst were committed to John de Warenne during pleasure , ¹º and two years later the king pardoned Waleran for trespasses said to have been done by him against the king in the time of the disturbance of the realm.41 Joan de Saunford , late the wife of Waleran de Monceus , deceased ( sic ) , died in 1278.42 The Hundred roll of the ensuing year contains a reference to the liberties of Waleran de Munceus in Hurst and Lanekestrode . ' 43 He was apparently living in 1281 . 


 The lands in Teversham seem to have been given to Thomas son and heir of Andrew Peverel , knt . , in frank marriage with a daughter of Waleran de Monceus ; they were subsequently 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 394] ===
 
 
 378 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 alienated for £ 300.44 This was later than 1279 , when Thomas Peverel was in possession of 16 virgates held by serjeanty and William de Warbelton had a number of tenants in villeinage , part of whose service was carriage once a year to Maplestead and Ongar.45 This proves that these tenements in Teversham were of the Domesday fief of John son of Waleran . 


 John de Monceaus was one of 6 commissioners in Kent , Surrey , Sussex and Hampshire , appointed in 1297 to maintain 12 ships for the safe - keeping of the coast.46 He died in 1302 , holding Hurst monceaux ( ‘ Esthurst ' ) of the earl of Brittany for 21 fees and in Compton Monceus ' a messuage and 8 virgates held of Thomas de Warblyngton for I fee ; John his son and heir was aged 23 years.47 Two years later the manor of Hurstmonceaux was settled upon John and Olimpias his wife and their issue , with remainder to Waleran brother of the same John , and further remainder to Margaret sister of the same Waleran.48 John died in 1316 , leaving John his son aged 10 years.49 No mention of the fee held of the earl Warenne is found after the time of Henry III . It may have been merged in the greater fee held of the earl of Brittany . 


 
 
 1. Watson , op . cit . i . 95 , 97. 2. Pipe R. 31 Hen . I , 72 . 255. 4. Op . cit . n . 61. 5. Campb . Chs . xxv . 10 . Facsimiles of Chs . n . 57. 7. Pipe R. 31 Hen . I , 22 , 41 . 


 3. Red Bk . Ibid . vi . 5 ; 


 6 . 


 8. Red Bk . 209 . 


 9. Ibid . 203. 10. Add . Ch . 20161. 11. V. C. H. Essex , i . 5446. 12. Ibid . 


 14. Cott . Nero E. vi . f . 305 ; 


 545b . 13. Pipe R. 8 Hen . II , 36 , 71 . R. Chart . 16 . 217 . 


 18 . Placit . 74b . Fees , 75 . 


 15. Bk . of Fees , 9. 16. R. de Oblat . 19. 17. R. de Fin . Ibid . 310 . 19. Farrer , Early Yorks . Chs . n . 1062 ; Abbrev . 20. R. Cur . Reg . ii . 246. 21. Red Bk . 554 , 623. 22. Bk . of 23. Ibid . 122. 24. R. de Prestito , 180. 25. R. Lit. Claus . i . 310b . 26. Ibid . 458b . 27. Pat . R. 74. 28. Feet of F. , Suss . n . 213 ; Bk . of Fees , 484. 29. Cal . Pat . R. 260 ff . 30. Chartulary , Otho A. ii , f . 24 . 31. Testa , 1756 , 190. 32. Ibid . 222b . 33. Ibid . 234 , 237. 34. Ibid . 223 . 35. Excerpt . Fin . i . 403. 36. Close R. 128 , 166. Cf. Cal . Pat . R. 420 , 422 . 37. Close R. 115. 38. Ibid . 120. 39. Cal . Pat . 140. 40. Ibid . 315 , 492 . 41. Ibid . 613. 42. Cal . Fine R. i . 95. 43. Quo War . R. 757b . 44. Cal . of Bodleian Chs . 42 . 45. R. Hund . ii . 432b - 3 . 46. Cal . Pat . R. 291 . 47. Cal . Inquis . iv . 68. 48. Sussex Feet of F. ii . n . 1163. 49. Cal . Inquis . v . 415 . 


 
 
 XVIII . 


 In Sussex William de Warenne in 1086 had in Wickham ( near Hurstpierpoint ) 3 hides , which Alwin ( Arundel n . 24 ) , who had held it T.R.E. of Azor , held of the wife of William de Watevile ( lady of Clayton ) . 


 
 
 Possibly this tenement continued until the middle of the 13th century in the possession of the local family , of whom little or no information is forthcoming . It is suggested that Nicholas de Nugun or Noyon , who held fee in 1242-3 of the earl Warenne's¹ fee , had the custody of this tenement during the minority of the heir . 


 In 1328 John de Wysham had a grant of free warren in 14 places ( named ) in the counties of Hereford , Worcester , Norfolk and Surrey.2 In 1332 the same John died holding the manor of Wickham by Steyning , Suss . , jointly with Hawise his wife , of John earl Warenne for fee ; John his son , aged 12 , was his heir.³ 


 
 
 + 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 395] ===
 
 
 BLATCHINGTON 379 


 
 
 Hawise late wife of John de Wysham , knt . , died in 1359 holding lands in Norfolk ; John her son was aged 26 years and more . 


 Wickham in Icklesham on the honor of Hastings must not be confused with this Wickham in Steyning , where lands were held both of the honor of Warenne and of that of Bramber.4 


 3. Cal . Inquis . vii . 321 , 401 . 


 
 
 1. Testa , 222b . 2. Cal . Chart . R. iv . 84 . 4. Cal . Close R. 1326 , p . 487 ; 1329 , P. 502 . 


 
 
 XIX . 


 6 


 In Sussex in 1086 William de Warenne had in Brighton 6 hides and 1 virgate which Widard held of him . Possibly land in Blatch ington was included in this tenement . Wiard gave to Lewes hide in Brighton , tithe of his demesne there and of the demesne of Ratton ( Ratteden ' ) ; Richard the archdeacon gave I hide in Blatchington , I hide at Kyngisford , ' I hide at Moulstone ( Mulescumba ' ) , and 4 hides in Witteden . ' ¹ In 1203 an agreement was made between Robert and Richard de Wyvil concerning 3 virgates of land in Grafton , by which Robert granted most of it to Richard , retaining , in right of his seniority , half the wood and a capital messuage etc. , which Hugh de Wyvill , father of Robert , had held.2 


 
 
 In 1205 Robert de Wivill demanded against Robert de Wivill , brother of Richard de Wivill , 24 virgates in Grafton ( Regis ) , Northants . , whereof demandant's father Hugh by command of his ( Hugh's ) father William and mother Emma , of whose maritagium that land was , received Robert's homage ; defendant acknowledged that he owed the service of 1 virgate to demandant.³ In the fol lowing year a recognition was to be made if Hugh father of Robert de Wivill was seised at his decease of 3 virgates in Grafton which Robert de Wivill claimed against Richard de Wivill , and if Hugh did homage to the abbot of Grestein , who granted to him 5 solidates out of 25 solidates which William de Wivill , Hugh's father , used to render to the abbot ; which same William permitted his son Hugh to marry and build housing in his chief court and gave him a tillage , in which house the same Hugh afterwards died and the father had his land for the residue of his life.4 


 
 
 To the same Hugh was given in the time of kiug John by William earl Ferrers the Northamptonshire hundred of Cleley , which descended in his line.5 Hugh died in or before 1205 , and in the following year a fine of 3 virgates in Grafton Regis was levied between Robert de Wivill and Richard de Wivill . 6 


 
 
 In 1217 Richard de Wyauvill returned to allegiance to the crown . A certain Richard de Wyavill defended with Godehude his wife in 1230 their claim to land in Chapmans - Combe , Som . In 1233 he or another Richard de Wyavill was one of the keepers of the castle of Devizes under Hubert de Burgh , and in 1242 Richard de Wivill owed mark in Northants . for licence to agree.10 In 1242–3 Richard de Wyavill held fee in Blatchington , Suss . , of the earl of Warenne's fee.11 He was the earl's steward when Hugh de 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 396] ===
 
 
 380 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 Plumton was sheriff of Lewes.12 In 1242-3 Walter de Wyvill held fee in Thornby , Northants . , of the small fees of Mortain.13 


 
 
 Possibly John de Wivill was son of Richard . In 1243 to 1245 he occurs as an official of the Exchequer at Winchester.14 In 1246 he was appointed a justice for the custody of the Jews , 15 and in 1254 he was a justice of Common Pleas.16 He had royal gifts of 2 bucks from the Isle of Wight in 1248 , and from the New Forest in 1249.17 On 27 May , 1259 , he was sitting on the King's Bench in Westminster.1 18 It is probable that this John was brother of Walter de Wivill . John son of Walter de Widevill remitted to the abbot and convent of Grestein for their tenants of Grafton suit of the hundred of Cleley , Northants.19 The approximate date . of this act may be deduced from the fact that in 1279 John de Wyvill sought to replevy to Margery late wife of Walter de Wyvill her land in Thornby , Northants . , which had been seized for her default.20 In 1284 John de Widvill of Grafton presented to the chapel of the Hermitage of Grafton.21 Thomas ( ? ) de Bray held . in Thornby , Northants . , fee of John de Widevill , who held of John de Daventre.22 


 
 
 No further reference to the family has been found until 1316 , when John de Widevill was lord of the hundred of Cleley.2 23 A John de Wivill or Weyvill who died in 1322 was certified to have held no lands of the king in chief in Sussex ; 24 as , however , the writ of diem clausit was directed to the escheator beyond Trent , 25 it is improbable that he was of this family . 


 In 1329 John son of John de Widevill , by Richard de Widevill his attorney , claimed to hold the hundred of Cleley by the gift in the time of king John made by William earl of Ferrers to Hugh de Widevill , father of William de Widevill , great - great - great - grand father ( triavus ) of the said John , whose heir he then was.26 


 There is no satisfactory evidence that the tenants of land in Blatchington on this honor were the same family as that which held Grafton . In 1336 Thomas de Weyvill was a commissioner of sewers in Sussex.27 In 1412 Richard Weyvill held the manors of Rodmell and Blatchington with land called Knolland , Suss . , and an annuity of £ 20 , of the lord of Lewes.28 


 
 
 D. iii . A. 4114. 13. Bk . of Fees , 939. 14. Close R. pass . 


 1. Watson , op . cit . i . 96 . Placit . 73b . 4. Ibid . 50 . 7 Jno . 7. R. L. Claus . i . R. 180. 10. Pipe R. 26 Hen . III , m . 15d . 11. Testa , 222b . 12. Cat . of Anct . 15. Ibid . 415 . 16. Cat . of Anct . D. i . A. 536. 17. Close R. 76 , 187. 18. Cat . of Anct . D. iv . A. 7836. 19. Mon. Angl . vi . 1092b . 20. Cal . Close R. 556. 21. Reg . Oliver Sutton , Bp . of Linc . 24. Cal . Inquis . vi . 210. 25 . 27. Cal . Pat . R. 285 . 


 22. Feud . Aids , iv . 441. 23. Ibid . iv . 22 . Cal . Fine R. iii . 136. 26. Placit . de quo war . 28. Feud . Aids , vi . 525 . 


 549 . 


 
 
 2. Northants . Feet of F. 5 John . 3. Abbrev . 5. Placit . de quo war . 6. Feet of F. , N'hants . 310b . 8. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 452. 9. Close 


 
 
 XX . 


 In Norfolk William de Warenne held in Denver ( Danefella ' ) 2 carucates and 3 a . held by Hugh ; in Dereham 30 a . ; in Fordham ( ? ) 3 a .; in Dunham 30 a . ; Larling 1 carucates held by Hugh ( see n . 2 ) ; 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 397] ===
 
 
 W. BARSHAM , DEEPDEN 381 


 
 
 in Barsham part of 4 carucates ( see n . 5 ) ; in Fincham 2 carucates held by Hugh , and land of freemen for 2 ploughs . 


 In Suffolk William de Warenne held in Deepden 3 carucates held by Hugh de Wanceio ; in Clopton I carucate held by Hugh . 


 Hugh de Wanci attested the charter of William 2nd earl of Surrey to Castleacre , in which charter are confirmed the gifts of Hugh de Wanci of the churches of Deepden and Barsham , and the gifts of his Frenchmen of their tithes , namely of William Talebot , Osbern de Denver ( Danevela ' ) , Ralph de Wanci , and 6 others ( named ) . Osbern and Ralph , sons of Hugh de Wanci , and their mother placed the gift upon the altar of St. Mary in the presence of Withebert ( de Acra ) , Tosard , Tostan ( de Acra ) , and others . After Hugh's death Rainer de Grantcurt gave the church of Barsham and his tithes and Ralph son of the said Hugh gave the mill of Barsham Bridge and 3 sochmen of the manor of Barsham who dwelt at Snoring . The said Ralph and Roger his brother placed these gifts on the altar of St. Mary in the presence of Roger the sewer ( son of Wimer ) , Peter de Cranewices , Richard de St. Clare , and others.¹ 


 
 
 Ralph de Wanci was father of Hugh whose charters to Castleacre are cited in Blomefield and Parkin's Hist . of Norfolk , iii . 751 ( vii . 42 ) . Hugh had a son Walter , who confirmed his father's gifts . The name had become widespread by 1181 , when a Hugh de Wanci was an approver in Surrey.2 In 1184 Brunus the London Jew had credit against his debt to the crown of £ 280 acquitted to Roger de Wanci of the land of Pont , Wales ( de Ponte de Tegl ' ) . 3 


 
 
 In 1201 Walter de Wanci attests a charter of earl Hamelin with others of the earl's men . In 1212 Nicholas de Wancy held 2 fees of the bishop of Exeter of his chapelry of Bosham , Suss . In 1220 a Walter de Wauncy of Hampshire had failed in a matrimonial venture . 6 


 
 
 Ralph de Wauncy held 8 fees in Norfolk of the earl Warenne in 1240 , which were in that year assigned in dower to the countess Matilda . " In 1242-3 he held 1 fee in West Barsham and 2 fees in Deepden in demesne , and the following tenements were held of him : 


 8 


 
 
 Robert de Denevere 1 fee in Fordham , Hilgay , Dereham and Dunham . 


 
 
 Robert de Denevere fee in Larling . " 


 In 1247 Ralph de Wauncy had a grant of free warren in Deepden and West Barsham , 10 and Berta the mother of Ralph de Wauncy had a royal gift of wine.11 There was another Ralph living , probably in Sussex , at this time.12 In 1275 William de Wauncy was lord of Deepden , 13 and as son and heir of Sir Ralph de Wauncy , knt . , released to Lewes priory all claim in the advowson of West Barsham.14 He in 1275 claimed view of frankpledge and warren in West Barsham.15 William de Waunci , knt . , attested charters in 1280 and 1288.16 In the Sussex Pipe roll of 1279 Nicholas de Wauncy and Alice Danmartin his wife were chargeable with £ 130 of the chattels of Elias le Evesk as in the roll of 43 Henry III.17 In 1295 he was one of the keepers of the coast about Dunwich , ¹ and in 1309 an assessor of the twenty - fifth in Suffolk.19 


 18 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 398] ===
 
 
 382 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 The returns to the aid levied in 1302 record these members of this fee in Norfolk : 


 
 
 Sir William de Vancy I fee in West Barsham . 


 William son of Nicholas 


 
 
 fee in North Barsham of Sir 


 
 
 William de Vancy etc. 


 Peter de Spaldyng I fee in Denver , Dunham , Fordham and Dereham of William Wancy and he of the earl of Gloucester ( sic ) .20 


 Hawise de Themeworth fee in Dereham of Peter de Spalding and he of William de Wancy etc. 


 Adam de Methelonde fee [ in Melond East Hall ] in Larling of William de Wancy etc. 


 13/08 


 Adam Talbot I fee in Fincham . See n . 16.21 


 In Suffolk : 


 
 
 William de Wauncy I fee in Deepden.22 


 
 
 In 1316 William de Wauncy ( the younger ( ? ) ) was lord of West Barsham and Deepden.23 In 1324 William de Wauncy and his tenants held of Aymer de Valence 8 fees in Deepden in Suffolk , and in West Barsham , Denver , Dunham , Dereham , Fordham , Larling , Melond , Fincham and North Barsham , Norf.24 He held the same 8 fees in 1327 of David de Strabolgi , earl of Athol.25 


 
 
 1. Mon. Anglic . v . 50. 2. Pipe R. 27 Hen . II , 153 . 3. Ibid . 30 Hen . II , 138. 4. Round , Cal . of Docs . , France , n . 1403. 5. Bk . of Fees , 71 . 6. R. L. Claus . 440 . 7. Close R. 214. 8. Testa , 287 , 2926 . 9. Ibid . 287 . 10. Cal . Chart . i . 323. 11. Close R. 517. 12. Cal . Pat . 1248 , p . 28. 13. R. Hund . i . 5206-21 ; ii . 196. 14. Harl . MS . 2110 , f . 5d . 15. R. Hund . i . 455 , 520b - 21 . 16. Cal . Close R. 113 , 513. 17. Pipe R. 9 Edw . I , m . 14d . 18. Cal . Close , 456. 19. Cal . Pat . R. 484. 20. In the return of 1346 this fee was held by the tenants of William de Wauncy , who held of the earl Warenne ; Feud . Aids , iii . 509 . 21. Ibid . iii . pass . 22. Ibid . v . 78. 23. Feud . Aids , iii . 460 ; v . 45. 24. Cal . Inquis . vi . 331 , 334. 25. Ibid . 482 . 


 
 
 XXI . 


 In Norfolk in 1086 William de Warenne held in Cranwick ( 2 carucates ) and Ely had the soc of 2 other carucates ; in Illington 1 car .; in Hilborough a manor held by W ( illiam ) ; in Cockley Cley car . held by the same W ( illiam ) ; in Bradenham 30 a . held by the same ( William ) ; in Denver 2 car . and 109 acres which William held of him ; in Heacham 2 car . which W ( illiam ) held.¹ 


 
 
 William the first earl gave an estate in Heacham to the monks of Lewes as he lay on his death - bed.2 William 2nd earl of Surrey confirmed to Lewes the land that William de Cailly ( Kayly ) held of him and whatever the grantor had in his demesne from the bridge of Peathorne to Chailey , Suss.3 He also granted whatever William de Cailly held of him in the manor of Heacham , Norf . , which he had given to the monks . Osbert de Caillei attests the second earl's charter to Castleacre.5 The name of Osbert was common both to this line of Cailly and to that of the lords of the honor of Cailly in Normandy . " 


 In 1166 Ralph de Cailly held 2 fees in Trumpington and 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 399] ===
 
 
 HILBOROUGH 383 


 
 
 . 


 elsewhere of the honor of Skipton in Craven , and Jordan de Cailly held I fee of new feoffment of earl Hugh Bigod . There is no evidence that either Ralph or Jordan held of the honor of Warenne . In 1197 William de Cailly obtained an acknowledgment that land in Tuddenham , Suff . , was inheritance . " Roger de Cailli , who tests charters of earl Hamelin , died before 1199 , when Beatrice his widow claimed 2 carucates in Denver , in dower of the gift of Roger her late husband , against John de Cailli , against whom Alice de Cailli also brought a plea of marriage , afterwards settled , as it appears , by fine in 2 John ( 1200-1 ) , which shews that Alice's claim was to a tenement in Hildeburchworth , now Hilborough , Norf.9 In the same year the claim to land in Denver was settled with Beatrice , who had married Peter de Beche.10 In 1202 , in a suit against Peter de Beche and Beatrice his wife for 40s . of rent in a mill in Cranwich , John de Cailly was called to warranty by the tenants on the ground that his father had given that mill to Beatrice in dower . The demandant obtained judgment and John was ordered to give Beatrice an exchange.¹ 


 
 
 11 


 
 
 13 


 Adam de Cailly appears to have succeeded to this fee in or before 9 John , when he was demandant in a fine with Michael de Ponynges and others touching lands in Bradenham , Denver and Ryston , Norf . Michael appears to have married Margery late the wife of John de Cailly , and her dower appears to have been de manded against Adam.12 In 1216 the king refused to receive Adam de Cailly and other tenants of the Warenne fee to peace.¹ During the years 1227-30 Adam was a justice commissioned to take certain assizes of novel disseisin in Norfolk , and in the last named year was one of the keepers of the seaports in Norfolk under the earl of Warenne.14 Another Adam , with Mabel his wife , was party to a plea of land in Shute , Gloucs . , in 1231-2,15 and held fee there in 1235-6 of the fee of John le Brun.16 See Arundel , n . 38 , and Giffard , n . 76 . 


 
 
 In 1232 Margery de Poninges impleaded Adam de Cailly in that he had not held to the fine made in the court of king John respect ing the manors of Bradenham , Denver and Ryston , and the park of Bradenham , but she failed in her plea.¹7 See n . 3 above . In 1240 Adam held 4 fees in Norfolk of the Warenne fee , which 4 fees were assigned to the dower of the countess Matilda.18 


 
 
 In 1242-3 Adam de Cailly held 1 fee in Hilborough and I fee in Cranwich ; William de Illington and his fellows held 1 fee in Illington . Margery de Poninges held ( in dower ) I fee in Denver.19 


 mas . 


 ¿ 


 In 1244 Osbert de Kaylly had respite of knighthood until Christ In 1257 Osbert de Cailly of Norfolk was excused from being put on assizes and the like . 20 In 1263 he conveyed to Walter de Bersted £ 10 and 16d . of rent in Wivelsfield , Worth , Iford , Mitching , Ovingdean and Wychcenden , ' Suss . , for £ 90 with the service of John de la Bysse in those places , namely I knight's fee.21 Possibly Osbert had held this fee of the Plaiz family . In 1265 Osbert de Cailly and Simon de Cailly had letters of protection.22 In 1275 it was reported that Sir Osbert de Cailly , knt . , and Walter de [ Cailly of ? ] Denever had their leet at Denver ; that Sir Osbert claimed 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 400] ===
 
 
 384 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 assize of bread at Bradenham and Oxborough , and that he held the whole vill of Cranwich ( ' Kernewiz ' ) of the earl of Warenne.23 Adam de Cailly claimed assize etc. and waif in Clackclose hundred.24 Osbert was living as late as 1285 , when he had acquittance of the common summons of the eyre in Norfolk.2 In 1287 he was in the army of Wales.26 


 25 


 It is assumed that Adam was son and heir of Osbert and that he and his tenants held the following tenements in 1302–3 : 


 
 
 Adam de Cailly I fee in Cranwich , I fee in Hilborough , Fouldon , Didlington and Cley , and I fee in Denver , Dunham , and Fordham . 


 
 
 8 


 Henry de Esthalle fee , William de Bokenham fee , Ralph de Illyngton fee , and 9 others ( named ) holding of Henry de Esthalle fee in Illington , all holding of Adam de Cailly.27 


 
 
 It appears probable that Adam de Cailly was twice married , having issue a son Thomas and a daughter by his first wife , Emma , sister of Robert de Tateshale the elder , whose grandson Robert died in 1307 without issue , upon whose death Thomas de Cailly , son of Emma , succeeded to a third part of the Tateshale inheritance and obtained the castle and a fourth part of the manor of Bucken ham for his chief messuage.28 By a second wife Adam appears to have had issue a son Edmund . 


 
 
 By fine levied in 1307 Michael de Cailly , parson of Hilborough , conveyed the Cailly manor in Denver to Adam de Cailly and Edmund his son , 29 and so in 1316 Edmund de Cailly and Peter de Spaldyng were returned as joint lords of Denver.30 


 
 
 Thomas de Cailly died in 1316 holding of his own inheritance the manor of Hilborough of the earl of Pembroke for fee as of the manor of Castleacre , which the said earl late acquired of John de Warenne , earl of Surrey , out of which Michael de Cailly ( parson of Hilborough ) received an annuity of £ 12 by Thomas's gift ; Adam son of Roger de Clifton , nephew and heir of Thomas , was aged 9 years.31 Margaret relict of Thomas did not obtain assignment of knights ' fees towards her dower until 1324 , when she was wife of Robert de Ufford.32 In that year the heir of Thomas de Cailly held of Aymer de Valence , earl of Pembroke , 4 fees in Hilborough , Cranwick , Bradenham , Denver and Illington.33 In 1326 Joan late wife of Adam de Cailly died holding the manor of Cranwick in dower of the inheritance of the said Adam of the heir of Thomas de Cailly ; Adam de Clifton , Thomas's kinsman , was next heir , aged 18 years.34 He had livery of his inheritance in 1329.35 


 
 
 1. It is not clear in all cases whether W. ' and ' idem ' refer to William de Warenne or to William de Cailly his tenant . 2. Lewes Chartulary , Vesp . F. xv . f . 13. 3. Watson , op . cit . i . 92. 4. Vesp . F. xv . f . 13. Cf. Mon. Anglic . v . 14b , s . t . Hercheham . 5. Ibid . 51. 6. Stapleton , Hist . of Norman Excheq . ii . pass . 7. Feet of F. ( P.R.S. xxiii . ) , 48. 8. R. Cur . Reg . ii . 58 , 137 ; iii . 167. 9. Norf . Feet of F. p . 14. 10. Ibid .; R. Cur . Reg . iii . 198 . 11. Abbrev . Placit . 36b . 12. Hist . of Norf . ed . 1775 , iv . 78 . P. 585 ; 1232 , p . 142 . 


 13. R. L. Claus . i . 250. 14. Pat . R. 364. 15. Close R. 1231 , 


 16. Testa , 82 . 


 17. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 672 . 


 
 
 [ 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 401] ===
 
 
 ATTLEBOROUGH , SCOULTON , STANFORD 385 


 
 
 18. Close R. 214 . of F. n . 711 . 24. Ibid . 519 . Aids , iii . pass . 29. Hist . of Norf . iv . 78 . 


 19. Testa , 2876 . 22. Cal . Pat . R. 446 . 25. Cal . Close R. 406 . 


 20. Cal . Pat . 582. 21. Suss . Feet 23. R. Hund . i . 437b - 8 , 438 , 458 . 28. Cal . Pat . R. 274. 27. Feud . 


 28. Cal . Inquis . iv . 258 , 262 ; Cal . of Fine R. i . 547 . 30. Feud . Aids , iii . 451. 31. Cal . Inquis . 32. Cal . Close R. 117 , 236. 33. Cal . Inquis . vi . 331 , 335 ; Cal . Close R. 266 , 278. 34. Cal . Inquis . vi . 419 . 35. Cal . Close R. 427 . 


 vi . 19 . 


 
 
 XXII . 


 In Norfolk Roger son of Renard held in 1086 in Stanford 2 car . , and 2 car . and 36 a . which freemen held ; in Buckenham 1 car . and 20 a .; in Ickburgh 40 a .; in Ingoldesthorpe 1 car .; in Scoulton 2 car . and 12 a . ; in Attleborough 2 car . and 3 a . and 80 a . held by sochmen ; in the other Attleborough 2 car . and 47 a . held by sochmen ; in Rocklund I car .; in Mundham 20 acres in Hudeston ( in Bunwell ) I car .; in Raveningham 2 car . and 21 acres ; in Thurlton 20 acres . 


 
 
 William de Warenne held in Heacham land of 14 ploughs and freemen's land of 1 carucate ; in Tofts part of 1 car . ( nos . 2 and 5 ) ; in Ellingham So a .; in Barnham 2 car . 6 a . 


 Robert de Mortemer attested the foundation charter of Castle acre priory with other tenants of the earl of Surrey.¹ This charter was attributed by Dugdale to the first earl , but it appears to have been the act of the second earl ( 1089-1138 ) . 


 
 
 4 


 There were , as will be shewn , two if not three Mortemers of Attleborough in the 12th century who bore the name of Robert . In 1177 Robert de Mortemer was amerced for wrongful disseisin in Lincolnshire.2 In 1180 Alexander son of William de Rogham of Norfolk had licence to take his suit against the earl of Arundel and Robert de Mortemer into the king's court.3 The following year Richard de Mortemer and 16 persons or vills in Norfolk were amerced for having broken into the park of William de Bouvill , + the knight of earl Hugh Bigod , in the neighbourhood of Castle Rising . In 1192 ( as noted at Arundel , n . 41 ) , Robert de Mortemer owed 30 marks for right of 5 knights ' fees in Hunstanton and 3 other places against John L'Estrange ; but the record stated that he had not the right.5 He gave to Lewes land in Heacham in return for land in Thomson and Caston which the monks restored to him , his charter being attested by Hamelin earl of Warenne , William de Warenne , and others . " In 1194 Robert de Mortemer found sureties , namely earl Roger Bigod , Geoffrey de Say and William de Warenne ( of Wormegay ) , to make his peace with the king for holding a tournament without licence , and recovered possession of his lands . " 


 
 
 The following fine levied in 1195 possibly indicates that the demandant claimed some part of the inheritance of John le Estrange in Hunstanton as one of the heirs of Reginald le Brun . He demanded against John le Estrange 5 knights ' fees in Hun stanton , Tottington , Ringstead and Snitterton , and by the agree ment made acknowledged the land to be John's inheritance and that he ( Robert ) and his progeny had no right therein against John , 


 III . 


 2 C 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 402] ===
 
 
 386 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 0 


 who gave him all the land he had in Tottington to hold for 1 fee less fee , except the church , which by Robert's assent he gave to St. Mary and the nuns of Campsey in alms , and except the service of 9 tenants ( named ) . For the land in Tottington Robert gave John £ 100 of silver of which Hubert archbishop of Canter bury , for the said Robert , had acquitted John ubi eas debuit.8 


 In 1219 in a dispute as to the ownership of land in Tottington , Norf . , between the prioress of Campsey and William de Mortemer , the latter shewed that John L'Estrange gave the land to his father Robert de Mortemer ( in 1195 ) , who demised the land to William le Brun , parson of the church of Tottington , for life , and he was recently deceased after 22 years ' tenure of the same ; William de Mortemer was said to be kinsman and seneschal ( ? ) of John L'Estrange.⁹ 


 
 
 In 1199 Petronilla de Mortemer instituted a plea of dower in land in Cambridgeshire , 10 and in 4 John the same Petronilla made an agreement with William de Bukenham touching the advowson of the church of Buckenham , Norf.11 This lady held land in 1199 in the Essex hundred of Dengie , possibly in Woodham Mortimer.12 This may point to a connexion between the Mortemers of Attle borough and those of Woodham . Two years later Walter son of Roger made an agreement with Robert de Mortemer touching the advowson of the church of Raveningham.13 In Michaelmas term 1203 a verdict was given in a suit about the presentation to that church that Robert de Mortemer , grandfather of Robert de Mortemer , had presented the last parson to the church of Raven ingham.14 


 In 1204 there was a mandate to the sheriff of Norfolk to give to Robert de Mortemer seisin of the manor of Scoulton , of which king Richard had disseised him per voluntatem suam and had caused William de Mortemer to be seised thereof , to hold it by such right as he had before he was disseised.15 In October 1205 the sheriff was directed to let Robert de Burgate have the land of Scoulton , late Robert de Mortemer's ; 16 in January following the sheriff was ordered to let William earl Warenne have seisin of the manor of Scoulton ' which Robert de Burgate holds , ' being of the earl's fee.17 


 
 
 Presumably the following entries relate to these Mortemers : On 30 November , 1204 , the sheriff of Lincoln was ordered to give Robert de Mortemer seisin of the land in Harlaxton late of William de Mortemer , 18 and in April 1205 to give the same Robert seisin of the land late of Jordan de Bosco , and also of £ 20 worth of land of the king's escheats without delay , in order that Robert might not be hindered by reason that the king was sending him into Poitiers in his service with Geoffrey his son.19 In February 1216 the sheriff of Leicester ( sic ) was directed to put Robert de Mortemer ( of Richard's Castle ? ) in possession of £ 10 worth of land late . of Robert de Mortemer of Norfolk , by reason that the last - named was then with the king's enemies.20 Within a few days of that date Hervey Belet was forbidden to receive to the king's peace William de Mortemer and other tenants of the fee of Warenne.21 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 403] ===
 
 
 ATTLEBOROUGH , SCOULTON , STANFORD 387 


 
 
 Late in the preceding year Constantine de Mortemer had been taken prisoner at Rochester castle and committed to the custody of the constable of Wallingford . 22 Again in February 1216 the presentation to the church of Raveningham was in the king's gift by reason of the land of William de Mortemer , the king's enemy , being in his hands . 23 In September 1217 William de Mortemer returned to allegiance and had letters for the restoration of his lands to the earl of Arundel 24 and the sheriffs of Norfolk , Suffolk , Lincoln , Cambridge , and Huntingden.25 Guy de Mortemer confirmed to the canons of Bayham land in Rokelund which they had held of Robert de Mortemer his father ; it was of his mother's maritagium . The period is uncertain , but Jordan is named as abbot.26 


 
 
 From a return made in 1226-8 it appears that William de Mortemer then held 10 librates of land in Harlaxton which king John had given to Robert de Mortemer , his father , of the Normans lands , and similarly £ 5 worth of land in Denton , Lincs.27 These lands belonged to the soc of Grantham which the earl of Warenne then had.28 William de Mortemer still held land in Harlaxton in 1242-3.2 29 In a return made in 1212 it was stated that the earl of Warenne then held Scoulton of the king of the inheritance of William de Mortemer . 30 In 1238-9 William de Mortemer was seneschal of William de Warenne , earl of Surrey.31 


 
 
 3 


 In 1239 a fine was levied between Roger son of Walter de Raveningham and William de Mortemer touching the advowson of the church of Raveningham.32 In 1242-3 William de Mortemer held of the fee of Warenne I fee in Attleborough , Barnham , Little Ellingham and Tofts ; fee in Scoulton ; fee in Stanford and Buckenham , Roger de Ravengham fee in Raveningham , Robert de Besevill I fee in Hadeston , and John de Hoe fee in Bixton and Barnham.33 William de Mortemer had a grant of free warren in 1250 in his manors of Attleborough , Barnham and Scoulton , Norf . , and Kingston and Foxton , Cambs.34 His lands in Cam bridgeshire were of the fiefs of Pecche and Richmond.³ 


 35 


 
 
 &lt;&lt; 


 
 
 Robert de Mortemer succeeded before 1246 , when he and his wife Isabel were instituting a plea of assize of mort d'ancestor in Cambridgeshire.36 In 1252 he had exemption for life from being put on assizes and the like.37 In 1261 land in Harston , Cambs . , was held of Sir Robert de Mortemer.38 It was presented in 1265 from Shropham hundred ( in which Attleborough lies ) that in the recent disturbances Sir Robert de Mortemer sent a servant named Leonius to Buckenham castle when Sir Henry de Hastinges came thither to besiege the castle , because Sir Henry had threatened to burn his manors in Norfolk ; Sir Robert was since then deceased and his heir in the wardship of the earl of Warenne.39 


 In 1273 a William de Mortemer had an order for free passage in the port of Dover with horses and equipment returning from his pilgrimage to Santiago.40 In 1275 William son of Robert de Mortemer gave a receipt to the prior of Barnwell for money be queathed under the will of Sir Geoffrey de Bancs for fighting men who should set out for the Holy Land.41 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 404] ===
 
 
 388 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 In 1275 William de Mortemer claimed to have waif in the vill of Attleborough , 42 and in 1283 he had a grant of market and fair at his manor of Stanford.43 


 
 
 In 1285 he demanded against the prior of Shouldham the advow son of the church of Stanford , of which Robert de Mortemer was seised temp . Henry II , and set forth his descent from the said Robert , viz . the said Robert had issue William , who had issue Robert , who had issue William , who had issue Robert , who had issue William the then demandant.44 The italicised words are probably redundant . In 1289 , as of Norfolk , he had letters of protection upon going to Scotland.45 He died in 1297 , holding of the earl of Surrey lands in Harlaxton , Lincs . , lands in Barnham , Scoulton and Attleborough of the said earl by the service of 6 knights ' fees ; lands within the park of Attleborough of Sir Robert de Tateshale , and lands and the service of certain knights in Kingston , Wimpole and Eversden , Cambs . , late held of Sir Gilbert Pecche by the service of 3 knights ' fees ; Constantine his son and heir was aged 18.46 In Norfolk William de Bosingle held of him the manor of Hadeston and Bunwell for I fee , William Ponyaunt fee in Attleborough and Ellingham and Robert de Castune the manor of Rocklund Tofts for fee . He had the advowson of the churches of Bixton , Barnham and Scoulton , and a third of that of Attle borough.47 Dower was duly assigned to Alice late wife of the said William.48 


 
 
 In 1302-3 Constantine de Mortemer's fee consisted of the following tenements : 


 
 
 Constantine de Mortemer 1 fee in Attleborough . 


 John de Thorp and Alice his wife , in the name of Alice's dower , the manors of Scoulton , Ellingham and Tofts for I fee of Constantine de Mortemer . 


 
 
 William Poygnant fee in Ellingham as above . 


 William de Besevill fee in Bunwell as above . 


 
 
 Nicholas de Castello fee in Raveningham of Peter Roscelyn and he as above . 


 
 
 th 


 John de Thorp and Alice his wife fee in Stanford as above . Nicholas de Langetot fee in Buckenham of John Avenil , he of John le Bere , who held as above . 


 Constantine de Mortemer fee in Bixton of Sampson de Hoo and he of the earl of Warenne . 


 4 


 
 
 Margery le Hauteyn fee in Barnham of Walter de Bernham and he of the earl Warenne.49 


 
 
 In 1306 Constantine de Mortemer had a grant of market and fair and free warren at Kingston , Cambs . , and in 1310 of a yearly fair at his manor of Attleborough and the same at his manor of Foxton , Cambs . 50 


 In 1324 Constantine de Mortemer and his tenants held of Aymer de Valence , earl of Pembroke , 51 4 fees in Attleborough , Barnham , Scoulton , Tofts , Rocklund , Stanford , Debenham , Little Ellingham , Raveningham , Bixton , Haddeston and Heacham.52 In 1338 he had a grant of free warren in the first 6 places above named and 


 
 
 A 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 405] ===
 
 
 BURNHAM THORPE , FULMODESTON 389 


 
 
 Ellingham , and in Besthorpe , Caston , Thompson , Totington , Little Buckenham , Beckerton and Coston , Norf . , Kingston and Foxton , Cambs . , and Harlaxton , Lincs . 53 


 
 
 Constantine de Mortemer , knt . , son and heir of Constantine the elder , died without issue in 1355 , shortly before his father , leaving Agnes his wife surviving ; upon the death of the elder Constantine , in 1357 , Robert his younger son succeeded ; the said Agnes had the manor of Kingston , Cambs . , held of the honor of Peverel of Bourn , in dower.54 She married before 1358 Thomas de Gissing , knt . 55 


 
 
 3. Ibid . 26 


 1. Mon. Anglic . v . 49 . 2. Pipe R. 23 Hen . II , 113 . Hen . II , 23. 4. Ibid . 27 Hen . II , 90. 5. Pipe R. 4 Ric . m . 2d . 6. Cat . of Anct . D. iii . A. 5489. 7. R. Cur . Regis , i . 87. 8. Feet of F. ( Pipe R. 10. R. Cur . Reg . i . 326 . 13. Norf . Feet 15. R. L. Claus . i . 6. 16. Ibid . 19. Ibid . 27 . 20. Ibid . 249 . 


 9. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 21 . 


 Soc . xvii ) , 61 . 11. Norf . Feet of F. n . 147- 12. Mon. Anglic . v . 625b . of F. n . 299 . 14. Abbrev . Placit . 45b . 54b . 17. Ibid . 76 . 18. Ibid . 15b . 21. Ibid . 250. 22. R. Lit. Pat . 161. 23. Ibid . 166. 24. In respect of lands of the Richmond fee , and in Attleborough of the Arundel fee . 25. R. L. Claus . i . 324 . 26. Chartul . Otho A. ii . f . 24d . 27. Bk . of Fees , 359 . 28. Ibid . 29. Ibid . 322b . 30. Ibid . 131. 31. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 1243 . 32. Norf . Feet of F. p . 60. 33. Testa , 287 . 34. Hist . of Norf . i . 344 . 35. Farrer , Feudal Cambs . , pass . 36. Excerpt . Fin . i . 465. 37. Cal . 


 Close R. 154. 38. Cal . Inquis . i . 139. 39. Cal . Misc . Ing . i . 251. 40. Cal . 


 Close R. 46 . 41. Lib . Mem . de Barnewelle , 150 . 43. Cal . Chart . ii . 266 . 46. Cal . Inquis . iii . 278 . 49. Feud . Aids , iii . pass . Calendarium Inquis . ( Rec . Com . ) says 6 fees . 53. Cal . Chart . R. iv . 444. 54. Cal . Inquis . x . 306. 55. Cal . Close R. 439 . 


 42. R. Hund . i . 472b . 44. Holinshed , Chron . ii . 266. 45. Cal . Pat . 335 47. Ibid . 279 . 48. Cal . Close R. 143 , 146 . 50. Cal . Chart . R. iii . 72 , 159 . 51. The 52. Cal . Inquis . vi . 331 , 335 . 


 
 
 · 


 
 
 XXIII . 


 In Norfolk in 1086 William de Warenne held in Burnham Thorpe 2 car . held by Walter and I car . held by socmen ; in Fulmodeston 2 car . held by Walter ; in Croxton I car . held by Walter ; in Harpley land for 4 ploughs held by Walter ; in Hackford 1 car . held by Turold . 


 Walter de Grancurt gave to Lewes the churches of St. Mary and St. Peter at Burnham with land and tithes , then held by Philip de Warenne for the term of his life.¹ This was confirmed by William the 2nd earl.2 At the dedication of the church of St. Pancras , Lewes , Ralph de Grancurt , probably son of Walter de Grancurt , gave or confirmed to the monks the two churches of Burnham and that of Harpley.3 Reiner de Grancurt gave to Castleacre tithes of Barsham and land in Tattersett and Hugh ( de Pinkenni ? ) his tenant ( homo ) gave tithes and land in Tattersett . Hugh de Fulmodeston gave the church and tithes of Fulmodeston and Hugh de Burnham his tenant gave a rent there . A pedigree of the Grancurts will be found in The Genealogist , N.S. xxi . 20 . 


 In 1206 Hugh de Polsted and Hawise his wife and William de Gimingham and Juliana his wife recovered seisin against Walter de Grantcurt of I carucate of land in Burnham as of the maritagium of Ascelina the wife of Hugh de Candos , their mother , whose heirs they were ; it was given by William de Grantcurt , father of 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 406] ===
 
 
 390 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 the said Ascelina.5 In 1209 Walter son of William de Grantcurt proffered a goshawk for exemption from serving on any assize save between barons . Walter de Grantcurt , knt . , notified to Pandulf bishop of Norwich ( 1218-1226 ) that he renounced all claim to the church of Croxton , having been assured that it was appurtenant to the church of Fulmodeston . " William de Grantcurt in 1239 confirmed to Castleacre the gifts made by his prede 


 8 


 
 
 cessors . 


 At some period in the 12th century it appears that the depend ant tenure of the Burnhams nnder the Grantcurts was reversed , and the Burnhams became immediate tenants of the earls of Warenne . 


 In the time of king Stephen , Walter son of Philip , ancestor of Philip de Burnham ( living 1199 ) , presented to the church of Burnham Thorpe.⁹ In 1166 Walter de Burnham and his fellows accounted for I mark of the pleas of earl Geoffrey and Richard de Luci.10 Philip de Burnham married Emma daughter and coheir of Ralph L'Estrange of Ercall , Salop , who died 1193-4 . There was a plea of land in 1198 between Emma L'Estrange , by her husband Philip de Burnham , against Fulk de Oirri ; 11 and in the following year Philip and the monks of Lewes had a plea touching a duel.12 In this year ( 1199 ) also a partition of the inheritance was made , before Hubert archbishop of Canterbury , between Philip and Fulk de Oirri , who had married Matilda , Emma's elder sister and coheir.13 Emma's pourparty was in Sturmer , Essex , and next year Philip gave 20 marks to have seisin of his land at Felsted , Essex , of which the king had caused him to be disseised.¹4 This may have been Grancurt's alias Gronker's manor in Felsted . In 1200 also Philip and Emma had a plea with John L'Estrange touching land in Childs Ercall , Salop , of which Hamon , John's uncle , was alleged to have died seised ; this plea was postponed until Emma's sister should come to answer with Emma.15 In 1201 the archbishop of Canterbury resigned to Philip de Burnham the wardship of the land and heir of William de Feldstede , saving to the abbess of Caen her right.16 


 In 1213 Philip de Burnham was one of three commissioners in Norfolk to inquire about the losses incurred in the recent disturbances by the clergy and Robert Fitz - Walter.¹ At this time he and John the Chamberlain held of William de Heliun 


 fee in Sturmer , Essex.18 They still held it in 1214-15.¹ 19 Philip died before 1226 , when the sheriff of Norfolk was directed to make personal inquiry at Burnham by liege men of the vicinage as to the liberties that Philip de Burnham , father of Ralph de Burnham his heir , and William le Valtre had in the land of Burnham , the sea and port of ' Brunnemuth ' and the market of Burnham , and of the accepted liberties to give seisin to the said Ralph.20 See Arundel , n . 46. In or before 1240 , presumably on the death of Ralph de Burnham , Hugh de Plaiz fined with the earl of Warenne in 200 marks for custody of the land and heir of Philip ( sic ) de Burnham.21 In 1240 the service of those who held 5 fees in Burnham of the fee of Warenne was assigned to the dower of the 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 407] ===
 
 
 BURNHAM THORPE , FULMODESTON 391 


 
 
 countess Matilda.22 


 tenement : 


 Hugh de Plaiz , by the heir of Ralph de Burnham , 1½ fee in Burnham Thorpe . 


 Hugh de Polstede and William de Gimingham fee in Burnham - Sutton . 


 
 
 Cecily the daughter of Philip de Burnham fee in Harpley . William de Gurney fee in Harpley . 


 William de Grancurt 23 1½ fee in Fulmodeston and Croxton and fee in Clipston . 


 Ralph de Birston fee in Briston.24 


 
 
 In 1242-3 these fees were held as of this 


 
 
 1 


 4 


 
 
 Philip s . & h . 


 
 
 In 1261 a fine was levied between William de Grauncurt and William de Calethorp and Cecily his wife ( who was daughter and heir of Philip de Burnham the younger ) , whereby the demandant released to them I carucate of land in Harpley.25 In 1271 William de Calethorp had a grant of free warren in Burnham , Harpley , and Hingham , Norf . , and Barnham , Suff . , and of market and fair at his manor of Burnham.26 


 
 
 William s . & h . 


 d . s.p. 


 
 
 In 1275 there is reference on the Hundred rolls to William de Calethorp's fair at the manor of Burnham , Walter de Grancurt's right of free warren at his manor of Fulmodeston , and Ralph son of John de Brunham's suit of his tenants.27 William de Caletorp held I fee in the vill of Harpley , with the moiety of that fee which John de Gurney held of him there , of William earl of Warenne.28 The year following Cecily de Calethorp , in claiming the right of patronage of the church of Harpley , gave this pedigree : 29 


 
 
 William ( recte Walter ) s . & h . 


 
 
 1 2 


 
 
 Philip de Burnham temp . Stephen . 


 
 
 Ralph s.p. 


 
 
 Emma dau . and coheir of Ralph L'Estrange of Childs Ercall , Salop . 


 
 
 
 
 William s . & h . d . s.p. 


 
 
 Francis s.p. 


 
 
 Philip 


 heir to his 


 brother 


 
 
 Cecily William de heir to her ↑ Calethorp . brother 


 
 
 In 1283 William and his wife Cecily with others were charged with trespasses against Ralph Crundel.30 Two years later the same Cecily acknowledged that a messuage in Burnhamthorpe was the right of Ralph Grundel.³¹ In a fine levied in 1286 between Walter de Grancurt and William de Calethorp and Cecily his wife 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 408] ===
 
 
 392 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 reference was made to a fine levied temp . Henry III between William father of the demandant and the same tenants respecting lands in Burnham Thorpe , Burnham - Sutton , Harpley , Fincham , East Winch and Hungres - wauton ' ( East Walton ) .32 In 1287 John de Vaus died holding of William de Calethorp fee in Hack ford , Norf.33 


 
 
 6 


 
 
 In 1298 Walter de Calthorp had licence to alienate in mortmain to the prior and Carmelite friars of Burnham a parcel of meadow there.3 34 


 In 1302-3 these feudal tenements belonged to this fee : 


 
 
 Sir Walter de Calethorp 2 fees in Burnham . 


 Sir Ralph de Hemenhale fee in Burnham of the heirs of Walter de Grancurt , they of Sir Walter de Calethorp etc. 


 The manor of Fulmodeston is held of the same Sir Walter for 2 fees , whereof John de Birston holds fee in Briston in 


 the hundred of Holt . 


 
 
 Pertaining to the manor of Fulmodeston fee in Clipston is held of Hugh Bardolf etc. ( See n . 2 ) . 


 William de Ros fee in Hackford of the same Walter . 


 
 
 Walter de Calthorp , John de Gurneye , and their tenants 1 fee in Harpley.35 


 
 
 In 1324 Walter de Calthorp , knt . , and his tenants held of Aymer de Valence 5 ( alibi 51 ) fees in Burnham , Burnham Thorp , Harpley , Fulmodeston and Hackford.36 Walter was living in October 1324.37 


 
 
 William de Calthorp , a knt . in 1327 , who succeeded , was Walter's son and heir , born before 1303.38 He was a commissioner of array in Norfolk in 1330.39 Two years later David earl of Athol demised to him and 3 others for their lives the manor of Stiffkey with knights ' fees pertaining thereto quit for 5 years and then at £ 50 yearly rent.40 In 1346 William de Calthorpe held in Burnham of the fees of Warenne and Wormegay , ¹¹ and at his death in 1359 he held manors in Seething and Burnham Thorpe of the honor of Arundel for 1 fee ; John his son was aged 30 years . His wife's name was Isabel ; she seems to have inherited land in Seething.43 See Arundel , n . 54 . 


 42 


 
 
 1. Mon. Anglic . v . 14b . 2. Vesp . F. xv . f . 33d . 3. Above , p . 312 . 4. Mon. Anglic . v . 50. 5. Abbrev . Placit . 47. 6. Pipe R. 11 John m . 5d . 


 14. R. de Oblat . 86 . 


 7. Castle Acre Chartul . Harl . MS . 2110 , f . 59d . 8. Ibid . 9. Abbrev . Placit . 6b . 10. Pipe R. 12 Hen . II , 29. 11. R. Curia Regis , iii . 50 , So. 12. Ibid . 78 . 13. Abbrev . Placit . 22 ; R. Cur . Regis , i . 274 ; ii . 187 . Cf. R. Cur . Regis , iii . 264 , 397 . 15. R. Cur . Regis , iii . 119 , 133. 16. Ibid . 418. 17. R. L. Claus . i . 154b , 1646-5 . 18. Red Bk . 358. 19. Bk . of Fees , 233. 20. . Lit. Claus . ii . 150. 21. Pat . R. 22. Close R. 214 . 23. See Red Bk . 744 . 1241 , p . 267 . 24. Testa , 287 . 25. Norf . Feet of F. n . 1443. 26. Cal . Chart . ii . 174. 27. Op . cit . i . 520-1 . 28. Ibid . 461. 29. Blomefield , Hist . of Norf . iv . 556. 30. Cal . Pat . R. IOI . 31. Cal . Close R. 352. 32. Norf . Feet of Fines , 4 Edw . I , n . 416 . 33. Cal . Inquis . ii . 404 . 34. Cal . Pat . 354 . 35. Feud . Aids , iii . pass . 36. Cal . Inquis . vi . 331 , 335 .; Cal . Close R. 1326 , p . 447. 37. Cat . of Anct . D. iii . C. 2933 . 38. Ibid . i . C. 234 , 237 ; iii . C. 3105. 39. Cal . Pat . R. 574 . 40. Ibid . 305. 41. Feud . Aids , iii . 517 . 42. Cal . Inquis . x . 395 · 43. Cat . of Anct . D. i . C. 867 , 1481 ; iii . C. 3105 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 409] ===
 
 
 RYBURGH , STIBBARD , TATTERSETT 393 


 
 
 XXIV . 


 In Norfolk William de Warenne held in 1086 in Anmercar . , which Guy claimed ( revocat ) by reason that it was delivered to Osmund , his maternal uncle , and count Eustace , but the men of William de Warenne disseised them ; in Snettisham 2 car . and 20 a . ; in Fring 20 a .; in Shernborne 2 car . and 40 a . ; in Didlington 4 car . , of which Oger held 1 car .; in Foulden 6 car . , of which William ( nos . 3 and 21 ) held 1 car .; in Sculthorpe 3 car . and 32 sochmen . I car . , 2 of whom had 40 a . in Toft ; in ( Little ) Ryburgh and Stibbard 30 a . held by Peter de Valoignes ; in Ryburgh I car . held by ( the same ) Peter ; in Tattersett I car . held by Reiner and 69 a . by sochmen ; in Barsham some part of 4 carucates . 


 These lands , or part of them , became the component parts of a feudal tenement created in 1316 by the earl of Surrey . 


 The charters in the Binham chartulary ( Claudius D. xiii . ) give the following Valoignes descent : 


 
 
 Peter I de Valoignes founder of Binham , C. 1108 . 


 
 
 William Roger 


 
 
 * 


 
 
 === 


 
 
 Peter II Gundred 


 
 
 Agnes Hubert ( sister of de Monte Pagan ) Caniso 


 
 
 ( de Warenne ) s.p. 


 
 
 Albreda ( sister of Eudes the sewer ) . 


 
 
 
 
 - 


 
 
 Muriel¹ 


 
 
 Roger 


 
 
 Robert Gunnor Fitz 


 Walter 


 
 
 = 


 
 
 William de Bacheton 


 
 
 Robert Hawise Geoffrey Roger John Philip 


 
 
 Durand de Steill ' 


 
 
 Christiana William de Mandevill , earl of Essex . 


 
 
 dau . Alvred 


 
 
 Adam Roger Beccha 


 
 
 Walter de Valoignes , nepos of Peter I , 2 in conjunction with Agnes his daughter and heir and Rohese his wife , gave to Binham his land of Barney and Thursford , for the souls of Peter de Valoignes . and Albreda his wife , Roger de Valoignes ( grantor's lord and kins man ) and Agnes his wife . Walter became a monk in the abbey . Roger de Valoignes approved the gift , with the sanction of arch bishop Theobald and others.4 The second Peter also confirmed the gift ; 5 and Robert de Valoignes , Peter's brother , was another benefactor of Binham.6 


 
 
 Adam son of Alvred , ' for the soul of Peter de Valoignes my grandfather , and for Roger de Valoignes his son my uncle , and Peter the younger my kinsman , ' gave crofts in Ingoldisthorpe in a 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 410] ===
 
 
 394 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 specially distinctive manner , the witnesses including the whole town of Ingoldisthorpe and grantor's wife the lady Beccha and his brother Roger . " In 1165 Adam son of Alvered owed 100 marks to have the enrolment ( recordatio ) of the king's court respecting the plea between himself and Agnes de Rieburc ( n . 27 ) ; 8 and in the next year the wife of Fulqui de Munpincun [ the same Agnes ] owed £ 100 for the hastening of her right of the land which she claimed against Adam son of Alvred.9 Adam is supposed to have been the ancestor of the Ingoldisthorpe family ( Arundel , n . 61 ; and n . 41 below ) . Adam son of Alvred and Ralph de Dalling were in 1166 tenants of Robert de Valoignes.10 


 
 
 Other benefactors to this Valoignes foundation at Binham were Thurold of Wood Dalling , who gave tithes of Dalling , Ralph son of Thurold and Roger his son , who gave the churches of Wood Dalling and Little Ryburgh ; 11 the latter gift was confirmed by Philip de Pavilly.12 Peter son of Ralph , with the assent of Lefquene his wife and Thomas his son and heir , gave land in Little Ryburgh , among the witnesses being Wymer the sheriff , Richard de Mortemer and Geoffrey son of Azon.13 Lefquene the wife confirmed this by a separate charter.14 Bartholomew de Crehec gave land in Barney , 15 and his grandson Robert de Crec confirmed this.16 


 William de Warenne ( of Wormegay ) gave to Lewes certain tene ments that Richard de Snetesham and Geoffrey his brother held in free alms of Reginald de Warenne , the grantor's father , in Shernbourne.17 


 
 
 Philip de Pavily of Norfolk returned to allegiance in 1217 and recovered possession of his lands.18 


 In 1220 Ywan de Dunton and Amabil his wife instituted a plea against William de Beaumont respecting a third part of I fee in Tatterset and Seingeham , ' Norf.19 


 
 
 In 1238-9 it was found that Ralph de Pavilly had raised a ditch in Little Ryburgh to the injury of Giles de Montpincun in Great Ryburgh.2 


 20 


 In 1242-3 these tenements were members of this fee : 


 
 
 Mabel and Basilia , daughters of Philip de Naringes , I fee in Stibbard , Croxton and Little Snoring . 


 
 
 Robert Aguillun fee in North Barsham . 


 Thomas de Ingaldesthorp fee in Snettisham . 


 
 
 1 


 4 


 
 
 Giles de Montpincun held 2 fees in Ryburgh and Snoring of this honor.21 But see n . 27 . 


 
 
 In 1275 John de Pavily had warren at Ryburg and Stibbard ; 22 John de Montpynchun claimed to have a leet in the vill of Ryburgh.23 He had a grant in 1281 of free warren in Ryburgh and Ingoldesthorpe.24 


 The members of this fee in 1302-3 were : 


 John de Warenne , earl of Surrey , fee in Sculthorpe and Stibbard of the fee of Lewes . 


 Petronilla de Tyrne fee in Foulden of Thomas Koc and he of the earl Warenne . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 411] ===
 
 
 GRESSENHALL , ELSING 395 


 
 
 Thomas Koc fee in Didlington ( as above ) , whereof a 10th part is in Shernbourne . 


 Roger de Aylesham fee in Tattersett.25 


 John de Helweton Hamon Pynkeney Walter de Calthorp 


 
 
 fee in Tattersett . fee in Tattersett . 


 
 
 fee in Tattersett . 


 John de Pavely fee in Little Ryburgh . 


 John de Thorp and Alice his wife fee in Snettisham , Shernbourne and Fring ( and Barmer ) . 


 
 
 4 


 Thomas de Ingaldesthorp fee in Snettisham , which of late was Augustine de Cangham's . 


 Roger Fitz - Osbern 26fee in Hillington of Philip son of Robert [ no barony named ] . 


 Giles de Montpincun and Christiana his wife I fee in Shern bourne and Snettisham 27 of the barony of Valoignes.28 


 
 
 Giles de Munpinsoun and his tenants held his manor of Great Ryburgh with Little Snoring for 2 fees of the earl Warenne , namely in the hundreds of Gallow and Brothercross.28 See n . 27 . 


 
 
 On 5 Aug. , 1316 , John de Warenne , earl of Surrey , granted to Sir Walter de Norwich , knt . , and Katherine his wife the manor of Sculthorpe , Norf . , with the advowson of the church , knights ' fees , etc. , in exchange for the manor of Scredyngton , Lincs.29 


 
 
 In 1324 Walter de Norwich , knt . , held of Aymer de Valence 8 fees in Sculthorpe , Didlington , Foulden , Northwold , Tattersett , Hillington , Little Ryburgh , Stibbard , North Barsham , Snettisham , Anmer , Shernborne , Fring , Ingoldesthorpe and Docking.30 


 
 
 1. Lansd . MS . 229 , f . 146d . viii . f . 53 . 4. Ibid . f . 49 . 


 
 
 3. Claud . D. 


 2. Mon. Angl . iii . 345 . Ibid . f . 50. 6. Ibid . f . 137 . 10 . 


 7. Ibid . 9. Ibid . 12 Hen . II , 21. 10. Red 12. Claud . D. xiii . f . 164d . 13. Ibid . 16. Ibid . f . 52. 17. Cat . of Anct . D. 19. Excerpt . Fin . i . 55. 20. Bracton's 22. R. Hund . i . 521. 23. Ibid . These four tenements in Tattersett 26. See n . 42 . 27. This fee 28. Feud . Aids , iii . pass . 29. Cal . Pat . 


 
 
 5 . 


 f . 173. 8. Pipe R. 11 Hen . II , Bk . 360. 11. Mon. Angl . iii . 347 . f . 164 . 14. Ibid . 15. Ibid . f . 49d . A.2950 . 18. R. Lit. Claus . i . 323b . Note - Bk . n . 1253 . 21. Testa , 287 . 24. Cal . Chart . ii . 248 . 


 535 . 25 . were held of John de Norwich in 1346 . was not of the Warenne fee . 


 525 . 


 30. Cal . Inquis . vi . 331 , 335 . 


 
 
 XXV . 


 In Launditch hundred , Norfolk , William de Warenne in 1086 held in Gressenhall 2 car . and 18 sochmen I car . , all held by Wimer ; in Scarning , a berewic of Gressenhall , car . held by Wimer ; in Lexham 2 car . held by the same ( Wimer ) ; in Weasenham 2 car . held by Wimer ; in Kempston I car . ; in Tittleshall 1 car . held by Wimer ; in Eynesford hundred , in Elsing 2 car . held by Wimer ; in Taverham 1 car .; in Irmingland 1 car . which Turold held ; Freebridge hundred , in ( Castle ) Acre land for II ploughs , and I carucate held by freemen ; in Grimston 3 car . ( n . 45 ) ; in Congham 2 car . ; in Congham and Grimston I car . ; in Smethden 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 412] ===
 
 
 396 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 hundred , in Heacham it is assumed that land in Ingoldesthorpe was involved ; in S. Greenhoe hundred in South Acre I ploughland held by Wimer . 


 In Suffolk Wimer held of William de Warenne in Withersfield 2 car . of the fee late of Fedric . 


 Wimar - that is , Guihomar or Wihomarc - the earl of Warenne's sewer at Castleacre and Roger his son gave to the priory there , soon after its foundation , land in Weasenham , tithes and a rent in Gressenhall , tithes of Elsing , Withersfield and Foulden , tithes of Geoffrey de Congeham , tithes of the hall and mill at Grimston and Lexham , and the churches of Lexham and Dunham , tithes of ploughs and of Herlebold in Wereham ; and further Wimar gave I car . at Kempston when he took the habit of a monk . His son Roger's confirmation of these gifts was attested by William second earl Warenne , Osbert de Gloucester , Turstan de Acre and Wibert de Acre.¹ Roger son of Wimar the sewer confirmed the gifts of his father and Gilla his mother , particularly the gift of the churches . of Kempston , Dunham , East Lexham and the two churches of Weasenham Thorp , and of his own gift of land in Snettisham , and in Congham with the church there . Among the witnesses of his charter were Rodland L'Estrange , Richard de St. Clare , Osmund the earl's dispenser and Walter the donor's brother.2 


 
 
 Charters of Roger the sewer of the earl of Warenne mention William his father , and other charters of Drew son of William the sewer indicate that Roger son of Wimar was succeeded by his son William . Thus Roger son of William the sewer confirms the gift to Castleacre made by his father , grandfather and ancestors by charter attested by his mother Æliva and his brother William.3 


 William son of Roger was pardoned 20s . of danegeld in Norfolk in the year 1130 , and the earl of Warenne was similarly pardoned £ 29 105.4 


 
 
 The descent of this fee from the younger Roger is not clear , but the main line ended in an heiress Isabel , apparently Roger's sister and heir . She is said to have been first married to Berenger de Cressi . She married secondly Osmund de Stutevill , with whom she joined in confirming to Castleacre the gifts of her ancestors , namely Wimar the seneschal of Gressenhall , Roger his son , Walter son of Wimar , William son of Roger , Roger son of William and Drew his brother , and Berenger de Cressi.5 Osmund died at Joppa in 1187 ( ? ) . In 1194 Isabel was the wife of William de Huntingfeld ( Giffard , n . 10 ) , when the abbot of St. Edmunds demanded against the said William and Isabel his wife the land of Wendling , Norf . , as a member of the manor of Runton , whereof the then abbot was seised temp . Henry I , but Isabel's ancestors took possession in the time of the war ( in Stephen's reign ) and Isabel still disseised them of it.6 In 1197 William and Isabella , tenants of 60 a . of land in Lexham , Norf . , obtained from Richard de Lechesham a release of all claim to certain new improvements in Lexham . " 


 In 1200 the imparlance between William de Stutevill and Isabel de Gressingehale in respect of her dower in Cowesby , Yorks . , was respited to various terms , William de Huntingefeld joining the 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 413] ===
 
 
 GRESSENHALL , ELSING 397 


 
 
 said Isabel his wife as plaintiff in demanding her dower . In the quindene of Michaelmas agreement was reached whereby the vill of Cowesby of the lands late of Osmund de Stutevill , her former husband , was to remain to Isabel , any excess in the value thereof beyond that of a third part of Osmund's lands to remain to William de Stutevill , who should e contra make good any deficiency.9 


 William and Isabel having demanded in 1197 against William de Stutevill dower belonging to Isabel's free tenement , late of Osmund de Stutevill , formerly her husband , in Brantingham , Stil lingfleet , Newsham , Cowesby , and other places in Yorkshire , Stutevill in 1202 satisfied her , as related above , out of his demesne in Cowesby.10 The plea had been in respite owing to Huntingfeld's absence beyond seas . 


 
 
 8 


 
 
 In 1203 half a knight's fee in Wellingham was held by William de Huntingefeld and Isabella of Michael Capran , but a claim by Michael that they also owed ward of Castle Bainard was disputed.¹¹ About this time , as Isabella de Gressingehale , with the assent of her husband William de Huntingfeld , she released to Castleacre the service of Hugh de Crec in Weasenham.12 


 
 
 William de Stutevill [ son and heir of Osmund de Stutevill by his wife Isabel de Gressingehale ] was one the knights of the earl of Warenne who were not to be received to the king's peace in February 1216.13 It is uncertain whether this was the William de Stutevill named above or William his son . In November 1219 the king gave his assent to the marriage of Margery ( de Say ) late wife of Robert de Mortemer of Richards Castle to William de Stutevill.14 For this marriage William gave but 2 palfreys.15 For various references to his wife's estates see Eyton's History of Shropshire ( iv . 314 ff . ) . ¹ 


 16 


 In 1225 there was a plea at Norwich between William de Stutevill and Hamon Chevre touching the church of Tittleshall ( Tydeshale ) , 17 and between the same William and Gilbert Fitz Roger and Simon Fitz - Vincent respecting a third part of the church of Fransham.18 


 
 
 In 1229 the king granted to our beloved and faithful William de Stutevill ' market and fair at his manor of Gressenhall , 19 and in the same year a ship of Maldon , Essex , was assigned for his crossing the seas in the king's service.20 In 1230 a present of £ 5 out of the king's wardrobe was pardoned to him , the keepers of the wardrobe and the sheriff of Norfolk being duly notified.21 In the following year he was pardoned 2 palfreys and 20s . demanded of him by summons of the Exchequer for having to wife Margaret late wife of Robert de Mortemer.22 This notice is of importance as proving that it was William de Stutevill of Richards Castle who was constantly in the king's service for some years prior to 1231 . 


 In 1233 William de Stutevill was one of eleven barons of the Welsh marches who found hostages for their true service to the king , Stutevill's hostage beingh is son Osmund . 23 In the following year the justiciary Segrave , to whom Osmund had been committed , delivered him to his father again.24 In 1238 Stutevill was one of 12 barons of the Marches directed to provide for the sufficient 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 414] ===
 
 
 398 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 defence of the March against Llewelyn ; William de Warenne of Whitchurch was another.25 He received a similar commission in 1245.26 


 In 1242-3 the following fees were held of the fee of Gressenhall : 


 
 
 William de Stutevill I fee in Elsing , Norf . , and fee in Withersfield , Suffolk.27 


 Roger de Frivill 1 fee in Sherringham , Norf . , of William de Stutevill . 


 Baldric de Taverham 1 fee in Taverham and Drayton of the same . 


 William de Cangham fee in Congham of the same . John de Hoe fee in Fringham and fee in Hoo of the 


 
 
 same . 


 
 
 Philip de Verly fee in Tittleshall of the same . John de St. Clare fee in West Lexham of the same . 


 Alan son of William de Helgeton fee in Helhoughton of the same.28 


 ū 


 
 
 The hermitage of Stratfieldsaye , Berks . , was founded by William de Stutevill , sometime lord of that vill , being charged with a chantry of 2 monks and works of piety , namely that whoever sought the charity of the house should have it for one night and one repast . 


 
 
 29 


 
 
 In 1250 William de Stutevill and Stephen de Redham his knight had acquittance of the common summons of the eyre in Norfolk , and in the ensuing year in Yorkshire.30 In 1257 he was one of 14 knights and barons commissioned to aid John de Grey , who had been appointed by Edward the king's son to keep the march of Wales . He died in 1259 , having held , apparently since his wife's death about the year 1239,32 the honor of Richards Castle by the courtesy of England , in that he had begotten issue of his said wife . 33 


 
 
 In 1262 Robert de Stutevill , son of William de Stutevill , was pardoned for the death of a man of Radnor some time before in the marches of Wales.34 In 1265 Robert de Stutevill of Norfolk had letters of protection , 35 and later in the year the king restored to Robert de Stutevill , son of William de Stutevill , who had been kept in prison by Henry de Montfort the king's enemy because he constantly adhered to the king and Edward his son , the manor of Withersfield , Suff . , and another manor , which the said Robert sold to raise part of his ransom with the said Henry.36 In the same year William de Wendling made acknowledgment coram rege that he had restored to Robert de Stutevill the land he had of Robert's gift in Wendling after the battle of Lewes , saving lands that the said William and the abbot of Wendling had previously held there ; he also surrendered charters that he made to the abbot of Wend ling of the advowson of the churches of Weasenham and Weasen ham Thorp etc.37 In 1273 Robert son of William de Stutevill of Gressenhall , for the soul of Joan his wife , gave to the abbot of Wendling all the land of his fee in Wendling , Scarning , Gressen hall , Great and Little Fransham , given by William de Wendling 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 415] ===
 
 
 GRESSENHALL , ELSING 399 


 
 
 the founder.38 He died before August 1275 , being described as uncle of Jordan Foliot , who was his heir.39 In 1262 reference occurs to William Talbot , a Norman , father of Joan wife of Robert de Stutevill , whose heir she was.40 Possibly she was Joan , mother of Baldwin Wake , who died in 1276.41 


 
 
 Jordan Foliot was son of Richard Foliot of Norton , Yorks . , by the sister of Robert de Stutevill . It was presented in 1276 that Robert de Stutevill had had warren in Cowesby which Jordan Foliot then held , 42 and in Norfolk in the preceding year that Jordan Foliot had view of frankpledge and other liberties in the vills of Gressenhall , Wendling , Lexham , Weasenham , Bresley and Stanfield.43 In 1282 Jordan held 2 fees in Cowesby and elsewhere in Yorkshire of Baldwin Wake of Lydell , Cumb . , and of Cotting ham and Ayton in Cleveland , Yorks.44 


 
 
 C 


 In 1290 a verdict was given that one Thomas of Rocklund was Jordan Foliot's villein , whom Jordan could tallage ( talliare ) ' de alto et basso ' at his will and that Thomas did merchet ' of flesh and blood ; the manor of Gressenhall with Hornetoft and other members was not of the ancient demesne of the crown , and was held of the earl of Warenne by the service of 9 knights ' fees.45 At his death in 1299 Jordan Foliot , then aged 50 years , held the manor of Gressenhall with the members of the said earl for 81 fees , and the manor of Elsing , where there was a motte , he held partly of the earl of Gloucester and partly of the earl of Warenne ; Richard his son , aged 15 , was his heir.46 In 1298 Roger Loveday died holding the manor of Withersfield of Sir Jordan Foliot.47 The members of this fee in 1302-3 were : 


 
 
 Richard Foliot , in the custody of the earls of Gloucester ( fee ) and Warenne ( 1 fee ) , I fee , in Elsing , held of the said earls , whereof Margery Foliot holds a third in dower ; and 2 fees in Gressenhall , Weasenham and Lexham of the earl Warenne . 


 
 
 John de Lacy and Thomas de Erlham 1 fee in Scarning of the same Richard Foliot . 


 
 
 Philip de Verluy fee in Tittleshall of the same . 


 Edmund le Leche fee in Lexham of the same . Sampson de Hoo fee in Hoo of the same . 


 The prior of Castleacre fee in Kempston of the same . Simon de Taverham fee in Taverham and Drayton of the heirs of Jordan Foliot etc. 


 Henry Digoun ( ( ? ) Nugoun ) and Fina his wife and Reginald de Sprouston fee in Congham of the same heirs.48 


 
 
 In 1324 ( the heirs of ) Richard Foliot held of Aymer de Valence 9fees in Gressenhall , Weasenham , Elsing , Lexham , Withersfield , Grimston , Scarning , Swanton , Haveringland , Felthorp , Taverham , Oxwick , Attlebrigg , Ranworth , Hoo , Brisley , Barnham , Irming land , Ingoldesthorpe , Lynford and ' le Cherville ' in Castleacre.49 Richard son of the said Richard died in the ensuing year holding the manors of Gressenhall and Weasenham of John de Warenne , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 416] ===
 
 
 400 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 earl of Surrey and Sussex ; it was recited in the inquest that John earl of Warenne had enfeoffed Aymer de Valence of the manor of Castleacre with the members , including Gressenhall , and that Aymer took attornment of the fee of Richard Foliot ( younger ) and dame Joan wife of Sir Richard Foliot ; upon partition of the fees held of the said Aymer , Gressenhall fell to the pourparty of Law rence son and heir of John de Hastinges . Richard Foliot , son of Richard Foliot , died in his minority in June 1325 ; 50 a year later his heirs were found to be Margery his sister , wife of Hugh Hastang , aged 13 , and Margaret wife of John de Camoys , aged 12 years . 51 


 Margery Foliot the elder , relict of Jordan Foliot , died in 1330 , holding the manor of Elsing of the honor of Clare for 2 fees , and that of East Lexham , Norf . , of the honor of Castleacre , in dower , besides lands in Yorkshire of the inheritance of her heirs , namely Margery Hastang , aged 17 , and Margaret de Camoys , aged 16 , daughters of Richard Foliot , son of the said Jordan . 52 3. Ibid . 52 . 


 2. Ibid . 51 . 


 F. ( Pipe R. Soc . xx . ) , 92 . 10. Yorks . Feet of F. p . 57 .; 12. Mon. Anglic . v . 52b . 


 1. Mon. Anglic . v . 49b - 50 . 31 Hen . I , 94. 5. Mon. Anglic . v . 52 . 6. R. Cur . Reg . i . 25 . 8. R. Cur . Reg . iii . 130 , 227 . R. Cur . Regis , i . 344 , 382. 11 . 13. R. Lit. Claus . i . 250 . 


 4. Pipe R. 7. Feet of 9. Ibid . 285 . Abbrev . Plac . 38 . 14. Ibid . 4076 . 


 15. Excerpt . Fin . i . 39 . 17. R. Lit. Claus . ii . 83b . 


 16. Also Bracton's Note - Bk . nos . 195 , 1606 . 18. Pat . R. 578 , 596. 19. Close R. 174 ; Cal . Chart . R. i . 95. 20. Close R. 253. 21. Ibid . 281. 22. Ibid . 560 . 23. Ibid . 313 . 24. Cal . Pat . R. 39. 25. Ibid . 235 ; Close R. 124 . 26. Close R. 363 , 472. 27. Testa , 2926. 28. Ibid . 287. 29. Cal . Misc . Inq . ii . 445. 30. Close R. 367. 558. 31. Cal . Pat . R. 553. 32. Excerpt . 


 34. Cal . 


 Fin . i . 324 . 


 33. Cal . Inquis . i . 120 ; Excerpt . Fin . ii . 302 . 


 Pat . R. 215. 35. Ibid . 453. 36. Ibid . 509. 37. Abbrev . Placit . 156b . 


 42. R. Hund . 


 38. Mon. Anglic . vi . 890b . 39. Cal . Inquis . ii . 88 ; Cal . Close R. 248 . 40. Cal . Pat . R. 728. 41. Cal . Close R. 1276 , p . 281 . i . 118. 43. Ibid . 540b . 44. Cal . Inquis . ii . 260 ; iii . 410 . 46. Cal . Inquis . iii . 411. 47. Ibid . 382 . 49. Cal . Inquis . vi . 330 , 334 . 50. Ibid . 394 . 52. Cal . Inquis . vii . 204 . 


 45. Abbrev . 48. Feud . Aids , 51. Cal . Fine 


 Placit . 221b . iii . pass . R. iii . 357 . 


 
 
 XXVI . 


 In Essex in 1086 William de Warenne held in ( Great ) Dunmow hide which Guibert held ( in Southhall ) ; in Kenningtons ( ' Keli tuna , ' in Aveley ) 4 hides which Wlbert held ( in } and hide which Ranulf held ( in ) ; in ( Steeple ) Bumpstead 3 hides and 18 acres which Gulbert held ( in Sturmer and Moyns Manor ) ; in ( West ) Hanningfield 4 hides and 27 acres . which Ulbert held . 


 
 
 In 1186 Gilbert son of Robert was amerced in Essex for default of his surety.¹ In 1196 he granted by fine to Thomas son of William and Camilla his wife dower belonging to the tenements of Bartholomew son of Robert , her late husband , in Bumpstead and Finchingfield , namely his tenement in Dunmow to hold for fee , the service of Walter de Gellam offee and 30 marks , with an addition of dower after the death of Joan mother of the said Gilbert , namely in Kenningtons ( Kelinge or Kelingt ' ) ; Gerard de Bomsted was Gilbert's attorney to take the cyrograph of the agreement.2 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 417] ===
 
 
 GREAT DUNMOW , AVELEY 401 


 
 
 In 1190 Gilbert son of Robert held fee of the king in chief in ( Leyton ) , Essex.³ At some period unknown one Osbert son of Robert appears to have held 6 fees in Essex of the earl of Warenne.ª 


 2 


 6 


 No further reference to this tenement is forthcoming until 1240 , when the service of those who held 6 fees in Essex of the earl of Warenne was assigned to the dower of the countess Matilda . In the same year Southall in Dunmow , late of the count of St. Paul , was granted to Thomas de Duresme ( de Dunholmo ) , citizen of London , in fee . In 1257 Alice late wife of William the clerk of Bumpstead was instituting a plea in Essex . ' In 1262 Stephen de Bumpsted assured by fine to Peter son of Roger de Bumpsted a messuage and 50 acres of land in Bumpstead for the term of Peter's life . In 1264 Joslain de Duresme died holding the manor of Southall in Great Dunmow of the king as of the honor of the count of St. Paul ( or St. Pol ) ; Joslain his son was aged years.⁹ In 1256 it was agreed by fine that William de Bumstede should hold of Peter de Manne and Christina his wife ( one of the coheirs of Valoignes ) and Christina's heirs a messuage and a carucate in Leyton for fee and suit of court at Higham.10 


 8 


 
 
 12 


 In 1265 a man of Sturmer was pardoned for slaying Gilbert son of Ralph de Bumsted in self - defence.11 In 1269 , at the instance of the dean of St. Paul's , London , Gilbert son of William de Dune mawe had exemption for life from serving on assizes and the like . ' Morant cites a grant by Matthew son of de Bumsted Steple ( ad Turrim ) to his son G ( eoffrey ) de Bumsted of his land and services in Alveley , which deed was attested by Bartholomew de Brianzoun ( 1260-1286 ) .13 


 In 1276 William de Bumstede had land in Guiltcross hundred , Norf . , and Jordan de Bumstede in Whetacre , of the honor of Castle Baynard.14 


 It was presented from the hundred of Dunmow in 1274 that Gilbert son of William had view of frankpledge in Great Dunmow.15 Morant cites a deed of William son of Robert de Bumsted Steeple whereby he granted to Sir Richard de la Vache his manor called Rocholte hall in Leyton , about the year 1284 ' ; 16 but this Richard was living and in possession of this land in 1346.¹ 


 17 


 4 


 In 1303 Geoffrey de Bumstede held fee in Alveley ; William de Bumstede fee in Leyton ; Geoffrey son of Matthew de Bum stede fee in Great Dunmow , and Gilbert son of William fee there.¹ 18 William de Bumstede died before 1316 , when Matilda his relict had letters of protection.19 By inquest taken in 1317 it was shewn that Bartholomew de Brianzoun , sometime lord of the manor of Micheleslond ( in West Thurrock ) , consisting of a messuage . and I carucate , had 25 years before purchased it of Michael de Holweton ; it descended to John de Brianzoun , who died in 1316 holding it of William de Bumstede , who held of the fee of Warenne for fee.20 In 1324 William de Bumpstede held of Aymer de Valence , earl of Pembroke , 5 fees in Great Dunmow , Aveley , Gubstede ( in Aveley ) , Sturmer and ( West ) Thurrock , elsewhere . described as 6 fees in unspecified places held by Osbert son of Robert.21 In the ensuing year these 5 fees were assigned to the 


 III . 


 2 D 


 
 
 1 


 4 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 418] ===
 
 
 402 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 pourparty of Elizabeth Comyn , one of Aymer's heirs , and to the dower of his widow Mary.22 


 Gilbert de Bumstede is named in 1319 with other people of Great Dunmow.23 In 1339 John de Brianzoun died holding Michael's tenement in West Thurrock of William de Bumsted in socage and by knight's service.24 


 By deed dated at Stepel Bumstede , 10 April , 1336 , William de Bumpsted , son and heir of William de Bumpsted , knt . , of Essex , released to Sir Thomas Clench , rector of Birdbrook , Essex , and Michael Clench his brother , citizen and fishmonger of London , the manor of Stepel Bumpsted.25 The end of this family was as follows . In 1341 William de Bumpsted , having married Joan daughter of Nicholas de Shordych , settled the manor of Ruckholt Hall , a messuage and mill , 180 acres of land , 27 acres of meadow and pasture , and 44s . of rent in Alveley upon himself and Joan his wife and their issue , by fines to which Nicholas de Shordych and John de Shordych , knt . , were respectively the demandants ; in 1345 William was convicted and hanged for killing the said John de Shordych , knt . ; the tenement was then delivered to Joan his relict in accordance with the settlement.26 


 
 
 1. Pipe R. 32 Hen . II , 16. 2. Feet of F. ( P.R.S. xx . ) , 33. 3. Red Bk . 733. 4. Cal . Inquis . vi . 334 . 5. Close R. 214. 6. Cal . Chart . R. i . 250 . 7. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 265. 8. Feet of F. Essex , 259. 9. Cal . Inquis . i . 179 . 10. Feet of F. Essex , 217. 11. Cal . Pat . R. 519. 12. Ibid . 314. 13. Hist . of Essex , i . 82 ( Lord Dacre's deed ) . 14. R. Hund . i . 470b , 476. 15. Ibid . 1576. 16. Hist . of Essex , i . 24. 17. Feud . Aids , ii . 176. 18. Ibid . 150–2 . 19. Cal . Pat . R. 457. 20. Cal . Inquis . v . 379–80 . 22. Cal . Close R. 267 , 274. 23. Cal . Pat . R. 305 , 359. 24. Cal . Inquis . 25. Cal . Close R. 669. 26. Cal . Close R. 625-6 ; Cal . Fine 


 21. Ibid . vi . 331 , 334 . 


 viii . 171-2 . R. v . 439 . 


 
 
 XXVII . 


 In Norfolk in 1086 William de Warenne had land in Great Ryburgh which Peter ( de Valoignes ) held , as shown at n . 24 ; in Little Snoring , Clipston and Kettlestone carucate which Reiner held . 


 
 
 In Essex William de Warenne had land in Halstead , of which Richard held of him 34 acres . Possibly these lay in Balingdon and Brundon . 


 
 
 Ralph Fawn ( Faeto , Facatus ) held in Gateley , Little Snoring and Great Ryburgh under Peter de Valoignes , who had a consider able estate in Ingoldisthorpe . Ralph gave tithes to Binham priory at its foundation ( in or before 1107 ) , ¹ and afterwards gave a rent of 2 marks a year from the mill of Ryburgh , for the soul of Peter de Valoignes , who gave him that vill , and by consent of his lord Roger de Valoignes , when he was made a monk at Binham , in the time of king Henry . This appears from a charter of confirmation granted by Agnes lady of Riburg , in agreement with her sons Ralph and Thomas.2 In another of her charters she is called Agnes de Montepincun , being , it appears , the wife of Fulk de Munpincun . 


 Fulk was perhaps the son of Roger de Munpincun , who attested 


 
 
 3 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 419] ===
 
 
 GT . RYBURGH , LIT. SNORING , BRUNDON 403 


 
 
 7 


 charters of William I and Matilda before the Domesday survey , in one instance as dapifer . Fulk attested the charter of Roger de Valoignes confirming his father Peter's gifts to Binham , 5 and various other charters of the time . " He died before 1166 , when his wife owed £ 100 ( extinguished in 1176 ) for hastening her right to land in Norfolk which she was claiming against Adam Fitz - Alvred ( n . 53 ) ; she was named as Agnes de Riburc . As Agnes de Munpincun she , or Ralph her son , held part of 1 fee of the abbot of St. Albans , as well as 5 fees of Robert de Valoignes . Another of the family appears in Gloucestershire , for in 1186 the sheriff charged his account of the farm of that county with 40s . for the purchase of clothing for Clemency daughter of William de Munpincun , 10 who was possibly a crown ward . 


 
 
 Ralph de Munpincun was a visor in a grand assize in 1199 relative to land in Plumpstead , Wolterton and Barningham.11 At the same time Isolda late wife of Hugh de Munpincun was demanding , in conjunction with Henry Biset then her husband , dower in her late husband's tenement in Ovingdean ( Hingindon ' ) , Suss . , against Ralph de Amundevill.12 Ralph appears to have been succeeded by his son ( or brother ? ) Fulk . A Valoignes feo dary records that the fee of Fulk de Munpincun comprised 3 fees in Ballingdon , Essex , Ingoldisthorpe and Ryburgh , Norf.13 Ralph the son of Fulk was living in 1227 , when he impleaded Adam de Cailly and others of wrongful disseisin in respect of a tenement in Great Ryburgh which he said had been given him by Fulk de Munpincun in full county court , by rod and staff , three years before his said father's decease . Adam and the others answered that Ralph was not in seisin at his father's death , when the bailiffs of the earl of Warenne and Robert Fitz - Walter in respect of portions of the tenement of their respective fees seised the tenement into their lords ' hands , whereby Adam and the others had custody . Judgment was given in favour of the defendants.14 


 
 
 Giles de Munpincun succeeded Ralph . In 1234 he was im pleaded by William Talbot and Alice his wife concerning land in Norfolk ; and Reginald de Munpincun also had a plea with William and Alice respecting 40 a . of land in Gateley , Norf.15 Giles and Reginald may have been sons of Ralph , and Alice his widow . In the same year Reginald de Munpincun was one of several knights who were taken at Pevensey castle , which they had held against the king , but he was pardoned later in the year , the king ordering the sheriff of Sussex to restore to him his hay ( fenum ) at Bege hurst.16 Giles was impleaded in 1237 by a tenant of Ryburgh respecting his customs and services.17 In 1242-3 he held 2 fees in Ryburgh and Snoring of the fee of Warenne ; 18 he also held 2 other fees there of Walter Fitz - Robert and 1 fee in Ingoldisthorpe of David Cumin , these being of the fee of Valoignes.19 The above named Alice was living in 1246 , when she was called Alice de Munpinzun . 20 


 
 
 Sir Giles de Munpincun and John his son attested a Binham charter.21 Thomas de Ryseby having complained of the services demanded from him by Giles de Munpincun for a tenement in 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 420] ===
 
 
 404 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 Ryburgh , an agreement was made in 1247 by which the services were defined ; they included a payment of 201d . to the king's scutage of 2 marks.22 Next year ( 1248 ) Giles came to an agree ment with William Talebot and Alice his wife , widow of Fulk de Munpincun , respecting Alice's dower in Ryburgh and other places , giving her land in Ryburgh and Ingoldisthorpe and the service of one - third of 2 knights ' fees in Naring , Croxton , and other places.23 In the same year Giles went on pilgrimage to Santiago , 24 and was living in 1258 , when he recovered a messuage and land in Baling don , Essex , against William de Clopton and Alice his wife , 25 and in 1259 , when Ralph son of Ralph de Ryburgh quitclaimed certain land in Ryburgh to him.26 Sir John de Munpincun had succeeded before 1273,27 for in the preceding year he agreed with John de Ryseby as to his tenement in Great Ryburgh.28 He married in or before 1285 , without licence , Orabella late wife of William de Staundon , tenant in chief.29 In 1284 a perambulation was ordered to be made between his land of Ingoldisthorpe and that of a neigh bour in Sharnborne.30 Before 1287 he enfeoffed Roger de Loveday of the manor of Elm , Cambs.31 


 
 
 Giles de Muntpincun succeeded . He and Christiana his wife were in 1299 demandants of the manor of Ingoldisthorpe against Oliver de Muntpinzun and another , their right being acknow ledged.32 Giles and Christiana put in their claims in 1301 in a settlement of Thomas de Grandcurt's estate in Clipston and other places , as did Edmund de Munpinzun also.33 Edmund occurs again in 1313. He was a son of Giles.35 


 34 


 
 
 In 1303 Giles held the manor of Great Ryburgh with Little Snoring for 2 fees of the earl of Warenne ; and with Christiana his wife he held 1 fee in Ingoldisthorpe , Shernborne and Snettisham of the honor of Valoignes.36 He attested various local charters , as a knight , about that time.37 He died before 1308 , in which year Christiana his relict held rents in Suffolk of Stephen de Brokedissh.38 


 In 1311 John de Cove , knt . , acknowledged a debt of £ 320 to Joan and Alice , daughters of Giles de Munpincun , knt . , which bond was subsequently cancelled on payment by the acknowledgment of Richard son of Richard de Goldesburgh who married the said Joan.39 


 
 
 cun . 


 Robert son of John Walkefare acquired the manors of Ryburgh and Ingoldisthorpe from William son of Giles de Munpincun in 1313 , the purchase including the dower of Giles's widow Christiana and lands held for life by John de Lambpet and Fulk de Munpin William Goscelyn and Agnes his wife and Alice daughter of William put in their claim , as also did Giles son of Giles de Moun pinzon.40 Robert Walkefare and Margaret his wife made a settle ment of this estate in 1315.41 In 1316 Christina de Munpincun was lady of Ingoldisthorpe , 42 which was part of her dower . By November 1320 Christina late wife of Giles de Munpincun had demised her dower in the manor of Great Ryburgh to Robert Walkefare , knt . , for a yearly rent of £ 24 13s . 4d.43 In December 1321 Robert's lands were seized for his rebellion ; 44 but Christina 6 months later obtained the restoration of her dower.45 The 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 421] ===
 
 
 BRUNDON — WESTON COLVILLE 405 


 
 
 unreliability of statements made at inquests post mortem is illustrated by the appearance of Giles de Munpincun's name as tenant of Edward Comyn , at the latter's death in 1320 , of Ingoldisthorpe and Great Ryburgh , 46 and also of Robert de Walkefare as tenant of Aymer de Valence in 1324 of 2 fees in Great Ryburgh , Little Snoring , Norf . , and Brundon , Essex ; 47 although correctly described elsewhere as 2 fees of the land of Munpincun in the king's hands . 48 


 
 
 Walkefare recovered possession of Ryburgh and in 1331 en dowed chantries ( for the king's soul after death ) with land there and at Ingoldisthorpe , in the churches of those and another place.49 His relict Margery held in 1346 the 2 fees in Ryburgh and Little Snoring belonging to the honor of Warenne , 50 


 
 
 21 . 


 14. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 1838 . 17. Feet of F. Norf , 21 Hen . III . 


 1. Mon. Anglic . iii . 345. 2. Binham Chartul . , Claud . D. xiii . f . 167d , 168 . 3. Ibid . f . 167. 4. Round , Cal . Docs . France , pass . 5. Mon. Anglic . iii . 346b . 6. Claud . D. xii . f . 49 , 52 , etc. 7. Pipe R. 12 Hen . II , 8. Ibid . 20. 9. Red Bk . 360 bis . 10. Pipe R. 32 Hen . II , 118 . 11. R. Cur . Regis , i . 192 , 195 . 12. Ibid . 279 ; iii . 214. 13. Testa , 2716 . 15. Close R. 155 , 182. 16. Ibid . 473 , 484 . 18. Testa , 287. 19. Ibid . 282 , 289b . 20. Excerpt . Fin . i . 462. 21. Blomefield , Norf . vii . 170. 22. Feet of F. Norf . 156/60 , n . 665. 23. Ibid . n . 667 . of F. Essex , 224. 26. Feet of F. Norf . 157/72 , n . 954. 27. Claud . D. xiii . f . 172d . 28. Feet of F. Norf . 159/101 , n . 1692. 29. Cal . Close R. 318 . 30. Ibid . 296. 31. Cal . Inquis . ii . 397. 32. Feet of F. Norf . 161/118 , n . 776. 33. Ibid . n . 826. 34. Ibid . 162/129 , n . 309. 35. Norf . Feet of F. 163 . 36. Feud . Aids , iii . 404 , 440. 37. Cat . of Anct . D. A. 2783 , 3143 , etc. 39. Cal . Close R. 443 ; ibid . 1319 , 


 24. Cal . Pat . II . 


 25. Feet 


 38. Cal . Inquis . v . 20 . p . 137. 40. Feet of F. Norf . 162/129 , n . 349. 41. Ibid . 162/131 , n . 442 . 


 43. Cal . Close R. 333 . 


 42. Feud . Aids , iii . 452 . 44. Ibid . 469 ; Cal . Fine R. iii . 84. 45. Cal . Close R. 469. 46. Cal . Inquis . vi . 153. 47. Ibid . 331. 48. Ibid . 335. 49. Cal . Pat . R. 222. 50. Feud . Aids , iii . 516 . 


 
 
 XXVIII . 


 In Cambridgeshire William de Warenne held 7 hides in Weston ( Colville ) . 


 
 
 William 2nd earl of Warenne gave the church of Weston to Lewes , and at a later date Osmund de Stutevill , living 1166 , or Anselm de Stutevill , confirmed the gift.¹ Anselm de Stutevill , son of Roger , died without issue , whereupon his five sisters , or their respective issue , became heirs to Anselm's estates.2 Beatrice had Weston for her pourparty , and married Bartholomew son of William de Bussey for her first husband . In 1200 she , being the wife of William de Colevill , was impleaded with her said husband by the abbot of Wardon for the church of Wardon , but pleaded in response that she claimed no right in the church save dower by the gift of Bartholomew son of William de Bussey.3 ( See Wardon , n . 1. ) In the same year William de Colevill was called upon to warrant fee in Muston , Leics . In 1217 William de Colevill of Cambridge , Leicester and Lincoln returned to allegiance , as also did Roger de Colevill of Cambridgeshire and Rutland.5 William de Colevill of Castle Bytham , Lincs . , died in 1230 , when Roger his son and heir had livery of the inheritance . He was not the same person as William de Colevill of Muston , Leics . , who was living in 1243.7 


 4 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 422] ===
 
 
 406 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 8 


 In 1236-38 Roger de Colevill held 1 fee in Weston of the earl of Warenne , and in 1240 he held 1 fee in Cambridgeshire , which was assigned to the dower of the countess Matilda . In 1242-3 he held 1 fee in Weston , Cambs . , of the fee of Warenne.10 


 9 


 
 
 Walter de Colevill was in possession of lands in Lincolnshire in 1253.11 He was against the king in the Montfort rising and in 1265 his lands in Castle Bytham and the members in Lincolnshire and Rutland were in the king's hands.12 He obtained the royal pardon in 1267 and in the next year redeemed his manor of Haborough , Lincs . , which the king had alienated.13 Walter died in 1277 possessed of the manor of Weston , which he held of the earl of Warenne for 1 fee ; Roger his son and heir was aged 26 years.14 He also held at his death fee in Barrow , Rutl . , of the fee of Wake ; 1 fee in Muston , Leics . , and I fee in Auburn , Lincs . , of the fee of Ros ; 21 fees in Bytham , Lincs . , of the fee of Albe marle ; and fee in Ledenham , Lincs . , of the fee of Hugh Fitz Otho.15 


 
 
 18 


 Roger de Colevill died in 1288 , leaving Edmund his son and heir , aged about 3 months.16 In 1302-3 Edmund de Colevill held 1 fee in Weston of the earl of Warenne , ¹7 and died in 1316 , leaving Robert his son , aged 10 years . In 1324 Edmund de Colevill ( sic ) held of Aymer de Valence I fee in Weston Colville.19 In another return this tenement was said to be held by William de Colevill ; 20 the first statement is clearly an anachronism . 


 Margaret late wife of Edmund de Colevill , tenant in chief of the king as of the honor of Albemarle , had dower assigned in Lincolnshire in 1316 , the details being fully set forth.21 Margaret late wife of Roger de Colevill still survived.22 In 1329 Robert de Colevill settled the manor of Castle Byham on himself , Cecily his wife , and his heirs.23 By the death of his grandmother , Margaret daughter of Richard de Braose , in 1335 , he inherited the manor of Aikton , Cumb.24 He held Weston - Colville in 1346 of this honor , 25 


 
 
 2. Ibid . 76. 3. Ibid . 32 ; R. Cur . Reg . iii . 471 . 5. R. L. Claus . i . 323b . 6. Close R. 423. 7. Excerpt . Cf. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 1208. 8. Lib . Memor . de Berne Cal . Misc . Inquis . i . 65 . 14. Cal . Inquis . ii . 137 . 18. Cal . Inquis . v . 375 . 296 , 348. 22. Ibid . 352 . 25. Feud . Aids , i . 158 . 


 
 
 1. Abbrev . Placit . 39 . 4. Abbrev . Placit . 28b . Fin . i . 199 , 400 . 


 welle , 257. 9. Close R. 214. 10. Testa , 355b . 11 . 


 
 
 12. Ibid . 238 , 262. 13. Cal . Pat . R. 146 , 281 . 15. Ibid . 16. Ibid . 420. 17. Feud . Aids , i . 141 . 19. Ibid . vi . 331. 20. Ibid . 334. 21. Cal . Close R. 24. Cal . Fine R. iv . 451 . 


 23. Cal . Pat . R. 393 . 


 
 
 XXIX . 


 In Essex William de Warenne in 1086 had I hide and 40 a . in ' Eineswrd ' ( in Arkesden , identified as Chardwell manor ) , held by Richard . 


 
 
 The Richard who was Warenne's under - tenant here and in other Essex manors was no doubt the Richard Guet ( n . 31 ) who was described as brother of the countess of Warenne ( see Intro . ) . He appears to have been succeeded by the families of Essarts or 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 423] ===
 
 
 ARKESDEN 407 


 
 
 Assarts ( n . 30 ) and Ardern ( n . 31 ) ; but a minor family of Goet was settled at Eynesworth in the 12th century , for the history of the Foundation of Walden ¹ gives some account of it , and the chartulary of that abbey supports the story . The name occurs in other places in the county.2 


 1 


 The earliest member recorded is one Richard Goet , who mort gaged some of his land to Henry de Essex ( miscalled Robert ) , whose public career came to an end in 1163. Henry's wife , Alice de Vere , afterwards came into possession and appears to have bought it outright from William Goet , one of Richard's sons . William Goet quitclaimed all right in Rumburgh to Robert son of Roger , Alice's son by her second husband , and Robert gave it to Walden.³ 


 William had had an elder brother , Henry Goet , who mortgaged his estate for a term to one Walter de Hay ( Eudes , n . 5 ) , and William on succeeding had great difficulties through his poverty . Being befriended by the monks of Walden , when the chapel of Eynes worth fell vacant he gave it to them as a reward , the gift being confirmed by Gilbert bishop of London ( 1163-88 ) , whose brother Richard archdeacon of Colchester was put in possession . Walter de Hay , though annoyed by the transaction , made no open opposi tion . Finally , at the expiry of the term , William regained possession of his land . Being then unmarried he gave a third part to a younger brother Geoffrey in fee . William afterwards married and had a daughter ; but his wife and her uncle , a knight named William Wachet , reproached him for having thus diminished his inheritance . Geoffrey was compelled to defend his title , and demised his land , apparently to obtain funds , to the monks of Walden for six years at a rent of 20s . and went away to another part of Essex to a knight he had formerly served . He fell ill there and in his poverty and distress sent to prior Reginald ( 1190– 1200 ) , who helped him ; then by his will he left a third part of his land to Walden , 5 making a nephew , Richard Goet , his heir . He took the religious habit and died . 


 The elder brother William protested against this disposition of the property , but at last took Richard's homage and that of the prior of Walden . It appears from the chartulary that Richard Goet was a son of Alice sister of William and Geoffrey , and had a brother Hugh . " Richard , who married a Juliana and had children Robert and Amabilia , gave part of his land to Walden , so that the monks obtained a moiety of what William had given to Geoffrey . William's daughter Roese married John de Melhowe and left a son and heir William.9 


 
 
 The overlordship appears by the confirmation granted by Hugh de Assartis when William Goet gave Eynesworth chapel to the monks ; the deed was attested by Hugh's son Richard de Assartis.10 One Richard de Essarz gave a hide in Kingston , Surr . , to Lewes.11 At a later time Ralph de Assartis confirmed the gifts made to Walden by William Goet , Roese de Melho and Robert de Goet , 12 and as Ralph de Assartis , knt . , quitclaimed to the monks all the royal service which they used to render for tenements in Arkesden of the fee of the earl of Warenne.13 Ralph de Ardern , knt . ( c . 1240 ) , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 424] ===
 
 
 408 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 quitclaimed to the monks his whole tenement in Arkesden of the earl of Warenne's fee , which they had formerly held of Ralph de Assartis.14 In 1248 Ralph de Assartis acknowledged that certain lands in Arkesden of his fee were the right of the abbot and church of Walden and released to them his right in the chantry of the chapel of Eynesworth.15 At the same time Alard Fitz - Robert ( ? grandson of Alice de Essex ) agreed that the said abbot should hold of him 60 a . of land in Arkesden.16 Morant cites a plea of 1285 in which it was asserted that the abbot of Walden had the whole fee of Eynesworth which Ralph de Assartis had held in the same place of the serjeanty of the chamberlainship.17 


 In 1303 the abbot of Walden held lands in Arkesden of the fee of Albemarle , 18 but in this return there is no reference to any tenement there held of the Warenne fee . In 1324 , however , the abbot of Walden held fee in Arkesden ( Haukisdene ' ) of Aymer de Valence , 19 i.e. of this honor . 


 3 


 4 


 
 
 3. Chartulary , 


 1. In Vesp . E. vi . f . 43d . 2. Essex Feet of F. 44 , 74 , 95 . Harl . MS . 3697. f . 138d . 4. Ibid . f . 132. 5. Ibid . f . 132d . 6. Ibid . f . 134d . 7. Ibid . f . 133 , 135d . 8. Ibid . f . 136 , 135d , 134. 9. Ibid . f . 137-8 . 10. Ibid . f . 132. 11. Vesp . F. xv . f . 21d . 12. Harl . 3697 , f . 138d . 13. Ibid . f . 139. 14. Ibid . f . 140. 15. Essex Feet of F. 159. 16. Ibid . 


 17. Essex , ii . 589 . 


 18. Feudal Aids , ii . 149. 19. Cal . Inquis . vi . 331 . 


 
 
 XXX . 


 In Essex William de Warenne held in Polhey ( in Pebmarsh ) in 1086 3 hides and 13 a . , of which Richard held 25 a . and Gladiou 3 virgates . 


 Gladiou has been mentioned above at n . II . 


 
 
 C 


 Hugh de Assartis and Richard his son have been mentioned in the last section ( n . 29 ) as apparently the successors of the Richard ' of 1086 in Arkesden . Richard de Essarts was one of the knights who in 1213 made recognition of the custom in Essex touching outlawry at the fourth county court after failure to answer for any forfeiture at those four courts.1 In 1217 he had a writ of reseisin to the sheriff of Essex upon returning to allegiance.2 In 1224 the king committed to Brian de L'Isle the manor of Polhey , Essex , which Brian previously held of the bail of king John.3 


 4 


 In 1227 Randulf ( ? Ralph ) de Assartis and Randulf son of William de Pebbenesse were knights of Essex . In 1235 a plea was respited between Grace , who was the wife of Brian de L'Isle , and Peter de Marevill , tenant , touching a third part of I½ car . in Polhey ( Polehech ' ) , which Peter held of the bail of William earl of Warenne , who was detained by sickness and ought to warrant to him.5 In 1238 Gilbert son of Roger de Assartis had licence to implead Peter de Marevill for the manor of Polhey , which Gilbert claimed , notwithstanding that Gilbert was a Norman.6 In 1239 Gilbert de Assartis , a Norman , released to Peter de Marevill I carucate of land in Polhey , to hold of the chief lords of that fee ; Ralph de Essartis put in his claim . In 1242 Ralph son of William de Pebanesse was one of the commissioners of 


 7 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 425] ===
 
 
 POLHEY IN PEBMARSH - HOWSHAM , COWICK BURY 409 


 the peace in Essex . In 1248 Peter de Marevill and Bernard his brother were knights in the king's employ.9 


 
 
 8 


 
 
 In 1260 Walter son of Humphrey failed in his claim against Ralph son of William de Pebenesse , a minor , to two - thirds of a messuage and I carucate of land in Passefeld , Essex.10 It was presented in 1274 that the fee of Polhey had withdrawn suit of the sheriff's tourn for 30 years past.11 


 In 1286 Hugh de Creppinges granted to Sir Ralph son of William de Pebenesche the manor of Stanley in the vill of Pebeneshe and elsewhere.12 In 1296 William son of Ralph had a grant of free warren in Pebmarsh and Alphamstone , Essex.13 


 1 


 8 


 In 1303 Ranulf de Merevill held fee in Pebmarsh of the earl of Warenne ; Thomas Gernoun , John de Polheye , the heirs of Alexander de Polheye , William son of Ralph ( de Pebeners ) and two others held fee in Pebmarsh of Drew de Barantyn ( see n . 16 ) .14 In 1314 William son of Ralph held 3 fees of Gilbert de Clare , earl of Gloucester and Hertford , in Pebmarsh and 8 other places in Essex and Suffolk.15 In 1324 the same William son of Ralph held of Aymer de Valence fee in Pebmarsh of this honor.16 


 
 
 2. Ibid . 328. 3. Ibid . 596b . 4. Bracton's 6. Ibid . 73. 7. Essex Feet of F. p . 120 . 152. 11. R. Hund . i . 158 . 14. Feud . Aids , ii . 142 . 


 
 
 1. R. Lit. Claus . i . 165b . Note - Bk . n . 243. 5. Close R. 77 . 8. Close R. 485. 9. Ibid . 57. 10. Abbrev . Placit . 12. Abbrev . Placit . 215. 13. Cal . Chart . ii . 466 . 15. Cal . Inquis . v . 349 . 16. Ibid . vi . 331 . 


 
 
 XXXI . 


 
 
 In Essex William de Warenne held in 1086 in Howsham ( Hall in Matching ) I hide and 3 virgates , which Richard held of him ; in Cowick ( Bury in Sheering ) 3 hides , which Richard also held . 


 
 
 This Richard is identified as the Richard Guet , brother of the countess of Warenne , who in 1098 gave Cowick Bury to the monas tery of Bermondsey.¹ Others of Richard's holdings have been mentioned in former sections ( nos . 16 , 29 , 30 ) , and it has been noted that the families of Essarts and Ardern seem to have held them later . According to the Annals of Bermondsey Thomas de Ardern and Thomas his son in 1122 gave to the monastery inter alia tithes of the corn of their demesne in Horndon ( on the Hill ) , Essex.2 Thomas and William de Ardern occur in 1194 in Suffolk.3 Ralph de Ardern was son - in - law of Ranulf de Glanvill ; for his connexion in 1199 with the fee of Bohun of Midhurst , Sussex , see the honor of Arundel ( n . 17 ) . Thomas son of Ralph de Ardern obtained lands of the fee of Midhurst in 1212. He died before 1233 . 


 
 
 Next Ralph de Ardern occurs , as above ( n . 29 ) . In 1258 the prior of Bermondsey impleaded Ralph de Aredern and Erneburga his wife that they should acquit him of the services demanded of him by John de Warenne , earl Warenne , for the tenements which he held of them in Cuwyk , ' namely I knight's fee , which was of Erneburga's inheritance.4 


 In 1272 Hugh de Coleworth and Elizabeth his wife made an 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 426] ===
 
 
 410 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 agreement with Thomas son of Ralph de Arderne respecting land in Horndon and Fobbing . Thomas granted a tenement which Richard de Coleworthe and Erneburga his wife held as Erneburga's dower in Horndon of the said Thomas's inheritance to the said Hugh and Elizabeth after Erneburga's death ; in default of issue . of Hugh and Elizabeth the tenement to revert to Thomas and his heirs.5 In 1284 Thomas de Arderne , son and heir of Ralph de Arderne , released to Avice late the wife of John Horn the manor of Howsham with the advowson of the chapel and £ 10 yearly rent , to be held of the earl of Warenne . " 


 
 
 7 


 In 1303 the prior of Bermondsey held 1 fee ( in Quickbury ) in Sheering , John earl of Warenne I fee in the manor of Matching , and Ranulf de Arderne fee in High Roothing . In 1324 the prior of Bermondsey held of Aymer de Valence I fee in Cowick Bury , Essex . 8 


 
 
 In 1314 John de Warenne , earl of Surrey , granted to Edmund earl of Arundel the manors of Weng , Bucks . , Blackwell , Roding , Howsham , Prittlewell and Yenge Margaret ' ( now Margaretting ) .9 By virtue of this grant the earl of Arundel held in 1324 of Aymer de Valence 2 fees in Howsham ( Ewisham ' ) and 2 fees in Mar garetting ? ( Bengham ' ) .¹º In another return it was recorded that 6 fees ' de terris de assartis ' were held of Aymer de Valence in Essex.11 This description may refer , as stated , to the two Rodings , or possibly to the holdings of the Assarts family . 


 10 


 
 
 1. Annal . Monast . iii . 429 . Soc . xiv . ) , 31 . 4 . of Anct . D. i . A. 455 9. Cal . Pat . 175 . 


 
 
 2. Ibid . 433 . Essex Feet of F. p . 223 . 7. Feud . Aids , ii . 138-9 . 10. Cal . Inquis . vi . 331 . 11 . 


 
 
 3. R. Cur . Regis ( Pipe R. 5. Ibid . p . 279 . 6. Cal . 8. Cal . Inquis . vi . 331 . Ibid . 334 . 


 
 
 XXXII . 


 In Buckinghamshire in 1086 William de Warenne held in Caversfield 5 hides which Brienz held of him . 


 In Oxfordshire William de Warenne held in Stratton ( Gadin tone ' ) I hide which Brien held of him . 


 2 


 About 1160 Roger Gargate , with the assent of Agnes his wife , gave to the abbey of Missenden , Bucks . , the church of Caversfield , with its appurtenances of 7 acres of Roger's demesne and hide ; the gift was made for the king and queen , and the earl and countess of Warenne.¹ Among the witnesses were Hugh de Noers and William his son , and Robert son of Amauri . Robert bishop of Lincoln ( 1147-67 ) confirmed the gift to abbot Peter and the monks , Guy the clerk to retain possession for his life.2 Hugh son of Roger Gargate confirmed his father's gift , ³ and Sibil as Hugh's widow also confirmed the hide which Guy the parson of the church formerly held ; the monks were to do the services due to the king and the earl of Warenne as much as pertained to a tenth part of the vill of Caversfield . As Dame Sibil de Kaveresfeld ' she took oath to move no disturbance concerning the church or its land.5 


 4 


 6 


 
 
 The Gargates also held lands in Northamptonshire of the abbots of Peterborough . Hugh Candidus ( d . c . 1175 ) wrote of the knights 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 427] ===
 
 
 CAVERSFIELD , STRATTON 4II 


 
 
 of the abbey : The first was Robert Gargate ; Hugh Gargate holds in Warmington and Irthlingborough , Northants . , the fee of I knight . ' 6 Hugh is identified with the Hugh son of Roger of Caversfield by the descent of the properties . In 1200 king John confirmed to Peter borough , inter alia , the gift made by Robert Gargate of a virgate in Warmington , two garbs of the tithe of the parish of Paston chapel and two - thirds of a garb of four knights in that parish , namely Ivo de Gunsthorp , Ascelin de Preston , Robert Peverel and Robert Grip.7 In 1168 Robert Gargate owed mark for a default in Northamptonshire , and in 1176 he accounted for 4 marks of forest pleas in that county.9 He was named again in 1179 . Robert Gargat sold some of his land in Warmington to William Ruffus , who afterwards gave it to St. Andrew's priory , Northamp ton , Robert confirming.10 


 
 
 Richard Gargate received a serjeant's livery of 1d . per diem out of the farm of London and Middlesex from 1165 till after 1189.11 


 
 
 Hugh Gargate owed 8 marks in 1180 in Norfolk or Suffolk for right of knight's fee in Warmington , Northants . , against Robert Gargate , 12 and in the ensuing year the charge was to be demanded in Buckinghamshire instead of Norfolk.13 


 The earl of Warenne answered in 1201 for 2 marks of scutage in Buckinghamshire . 14 


 
 
 In 1206 Robert Gargat ( who appeared by Richard Gargat ) released to Hugh Gargat all right in 8 virgates in Warmington , 15 and Hugh afterwards sold portions to St. Andrew's , Northampton , and to the Templars.16 In 1212 Hugh Gargate held 1 fee of the honor of the abbot of Peterborough.17 In 1216 he was William Briwerre's serjeant in Blisworth , 18 but he died before 1220 , when Sibyl de Caversfeld sought inquiry whether William de Ros had seisin of the land of Warmington and Irthlingborough , late of Hugh Gargate formerly her husband , by the king's precept to the sheriff of Northampton or by his own authority.19 Dodsworth records an agreement made at Oxford in the same year between the said William and Sibyl de Caversfield and Muriel her daughter , whereby Sibyl and Muriel released to William the lands late of Hugh Gar gate in Warmington for the maintenance of the children he had by Muriel.20 The lands in Northamptonshire did not descend like Caversfield . Muriel as daughter of Hugh Gargate confirmed to Missenden the hide which her grandfather Roger Gargate had given , 21 and afterwards confirmed it as widow of William de Ros . Hugh left another daughter , Isabel , who with her husband Gerard son of Roger de Muniberi and Peter their son confirmed the samehide to the monks.23 Isabel , as widow of Gerard , gave a further confirmation.24 In 1227 a Hugh Gargate held of the abbot of Peterborough I fee in Warmington and Irthlingborough , 25 and the same was plaintiff in 1243 concerning lands in Warmington.26 


 22 


 Sibyl widow of Hugh Gargate in 1227 obtained 1 virgate in Caversfield from Osmund son of Robert.27 In 1233 Isabel Gargate and Muriel her sister impleaded Robert de L'Isle as to his right to have common of their land of Caversfield , when they had none in his land.28 About the same date Muriel de Ros , widow , gave the 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 428] ===
 
 
 412 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 canons of Bicester land in the vills of Caversfield and Stratton , with the chief court at Caversfield ; witnesses : Roger Amauri , Ralph Harang , Ralph de Chetwde and Ernald Biseth.29 Isabel daughter of Hugh Gargate of Caversfield in her widowhood gave to the canons of Bicester her part of the croft lying by the canons ' court ( in Stratton ) , of which they had the other part by gift of her sister Muriel.30 Sibyl de Caversfeld , widow of Hugh Gargate , con firmed to the canons her daughter Isabel Gargate's gift of I virgate in Stratton ; the deed is attested by Robert de la Hay , then sheriff of Oxford ( 1226-32 ) , 31 and nine of the witnesses attested Isabel's charter . In 1236 dame Isabel Gargate demised to the canons of Bicester , for a term of six years , her demesne lands of Caversfield , except the land of Sibyl her mother in that vill.32 


 In 1240 the service of Hugh Gargate which he did to the late earl of Warenne for land in Warwickshire ( sic ) was assigned to the dower of the countess Matilda ; 33 and in 1242-3 Sibyl Gargate held fee in Stratton of the fee of Warenne and William Hay fee in Caversfield of the fee of ' Warewyk ' ( recle Warenne ) . 34 Dame Sibyl de Caversfeld occurs in a deed of 1244 , Robert Gargat being a witness.35 


 1 


 4 


 4 


 William Hay and the prior of Bicester each held 2 hides in Caversfield in 1255. * 36 The Oxfordshire hundred roll of 1279 records that the abbot of Cirencester held in Stratton 1 virgate and the prior of Bicester 4 virgates , of which 2 virgates belonged to the chapelry and 1 virgate was given by a certain dame of Caversfield ( Keresfeld ' ) with 3 canons , the prior doing suit for 2 virgates , namely 15d . in hidage ; among the prior's tenants Simon de Winecote held 1 virgate.37 


 
 
 In 1284-5 Simon de Winecote held of William de Winecote and he of the earl of Warenne half the vill of Caversfield for fee , and the prior of Bicester the other half similarly for fee.38 John le Bret and Sarra his wife in 1287 quitclaimed to Simon de Wynes cote all their right in I carucate of land in Caversfeld , on behalf of themselves and the heirs of Sarra ; at the same time releasing all claims on the land in Stratton held by Simon.39 In 1302 the same Simon and the prior of Bicester held Caversfield for 1 fee , and in 1316 they were lords of the vill.40 In 1313 Master Simon de Wonnecote acknowledged the right of John de Wonnecote to 19 messuages , 2 carucates and 7 virgates of land , 10s . rent and the moiety of a mill in Caversfield ; whereupon John gave the same to Simon for life , with reversion to himself and his heirs.41 


 
 
 The prior of Bicester and the heirs of William de Wincote in 1324 held of Aymer de Valence I fee in Caversfield , Bucks.42 In another return it is stated ( anachronously ) that Hugh Gargate , ( Bargate ' ) held 1 fee in Buckinghamshire.43 In 1325 a knight's fee in Caversfield held by John de Winecote was assigned to the dower of Mary late wife of Aymer de Valence and to the pourparty of Elizabeth Comyn ; 44 another fee in Caversfield held by the prior of Bicester and the heir of William de Winecote was assigned to David de Strabolgi , earl of Athol , and Joan his wife.45 


 In 1337 land in Caversfield was held of John de Winecote , 46 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 429] ===
 
 
 STOKE BRUERN , ALDERTON 413 


 
 
 and in 1346 the prior of Bicester held in pure alms fee there of the honor of Castleacre and John de Winecote fee similarly.47 


 
 
 2. Ibid . f . 189d . 


 3. Ibid . 6. Chron . Petroburg . 176 n . 9. Ibid . 22 Hen . II , 51 . 130. 12. Ibid . 26 Hen . II , R. Cancell . 355 . 15. Feet 17. Red Bk . 619. 18. R. 20. Dods . MS . xlii . f . 134 . 23. Ibid . f . 127d . 


 1. Chartulary , Harl . MS . 3688 , f . 126d . f . 126d . 4. Ibid . f . 127d . 5. Ibid . f . 132d . 7. R. Chart . 32. 8. Pipe R. 14 Hen . II , 55 . 10. Chartul . Reg . 11 , B. ix . 11. Ibid . 12 Hen . II , 13. Ibid . 27 Hen . II , 71 , 87 . 14 . 23 , 87 . of F. Northants . 171/11 . 16. Ibid . 171/12 . Lit. Claus . i . 288b . 19. Excerpt . Fin . i . 43 . 21. Harl . 3688 , f . 127d . 22. Ibid . f . 128 . 24. Ibid . f . 126d . 25. Cal . Chart . R. i . 20. 26. Cur . Reg . R. 130 , m . II . 27. Feet of F. Bucks . 15/16 , n . 25 . 28. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 803. 29. Cat . of Anct . D. i . B. 946 . 30. Kennett , Par . Antiq . i . 265. 31. Ibid . 266 . 32. Cat . of Anct . D. i . D. 1104 . 33. Close R. 214 . 34. Bk . of Fees , 826 ,; Testa , 105 , 243b . 35. Court of Augment . Misc . Bks . xlv . n . 258 ; see also n . 54 , 280. 36. R. Hund . i . 29b . 37. Ibid . ii . 828b . 38. Feud . Aids , i . 87. Cf. Cal . Close R. 1285-6 , p . 408. 39. Feet of F. Bucks . 17/50 , 40. Feud . Aids , i . 99 , 109. 41. Feet of F. Bucks . 18/64 , п . II . 


 n . 4 . 


 42. Cal . Inquis . vi . 331. 43. Ibid . 334. 44. Cal . Close R. 267 , 274. 45. Ibid . 


 47. Feud . Aids , i . 124 . 


 447. 46. Cal . Inquis . viii . 67 . 


 
 
 XXXIII . 


 In Northamptonshire Suain ( son of Azur ) in 1086 held in Stoke ( Bruern ) 4 hides ; the count of Mortain 2 hides and virg . in Alderton , and I hide there which a thegn held of the count . 


 In the survey temp . Henry I ( c . 1124-9 ) there were 7 hides and 2 small virgates in Stoke Bruern and Alderton.¹ 


 In 1172 Geoffrey de Malquenci held I knight's fee in Normandy and was then and in 1180 bailiff of the district of Caux . Blainville sur - Ry is near Mauquenchy in the . Roumois.2 There was in England in 1166 a Geoffrey de Malquenci , tenant of fee of Henry de Lasci of Pontefract , ³ who may be identified as the person of the same name who gave the church of West Burton , Notts . , to the canons of Radford , who later removed to Worksop.4 The donor was uncle of Geoffrey de Paveilli . 


 
 
 In 1199 John Mauduit demanded against Gerard de Malquenci II virgates in Shittlehanger , 2 virgates in Stoke ( Bruern ) and half the mill of Twyford , Bucks .; Gerard made default in the plea and in 1200 Robert son of Alan sought to recover the tenements for him by replevin.5 In 1201 Gerard de Malquenci accounted for the scutage of I knight's fee in Northamptonshire of the honor of Mortain.6 He was dispossessed in 1204 , when Normandy was severed from England , and his lands in Stoke Bruern and Shittle hanger appear to have been bestowed on William Briwerre , who held them in 1212 , as the former possession of Gerard de Mau quency . Before his death in 1227 William Briwerre gave 4,000 m . to his nephew William bishop of Exeter , who was going on the crusade in expiation of his own and his uncle's sins , to be disposed by the bishop for the welfare of the Holy Land . William Briwerre succeeded his father and died in 1232 , Joan his wife surviving and having Stoke and Alderton for her dower.9 In 1235-6 she answered through Adam her serjeant for the aid due from I fee in Stoke , and in 1242-3 she held 1 fee here of the earl of Warenne's fee.¹ 


 7 


 10 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 430] ===
 
 
 414 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 The manor had been assigned in 1233 to the pourparty of Margaret de la Ferte , one of the 5 sisters and coheirs of the said William Briwerre the younger.11 This Margaret was late the wife of William de la Ferte of Marden and Lavington , Wilts . , and Alphington , Devon , who died in 1216,12 in which year the sheriff of Devon and constable of Devizes were ordered to give Pain de Chaworth seisin of the lands of William de la Ferte which belonged hereditarily to Pain's wife , 13 Gundreda daughter and heir of William de la Ferte and Margaret Briwerre his wife . Pain de Chaworth died in 1237 , when Patrick his son proffered £ 500 for livery of the lands which descended to him from Pain his father and Margaret de Briwerre his grandmother.14 Patrick died in 1258 , Pain his son being aged 14 years ; 15 which Pain held the manor of Stokebruern with the messuage of Alderton at his death in 1279 of John de Warenne , earl of Surrey , by the service of one small fee of Mortain , Patrick his brother and heir being aged 25 years.16 Patrick died young in 1283 , leaving his daughter Matilda , then but one year old . He had been possessed of Stokebruerne , Shittlehanger and Alderton , out of which dame Matilda la Salvage and her sons Geoffrey and Robert were entitled to provision for life.17 At an inquest taken in 1297 the descent of Stoke bruern and Shittlehanger was recorded from William ' de la Bruere ' to Joan his relict , until her death , then to Pain and Patrick de Chaworth , and then to Isabel late the wife of the said Patrick and in 1297 the wife of Hugh le Despenser.18 


 
 
 Matilda daughter and heir of Patrick de Chaworth married Henry Plantagenet or ' de Lancaster , ' second son of Edmund earl of Lancaster , created earl of Leicester in 1324. She conveyed this fee in 1306 to William de Coumbemartyn , 19 citizen and merchant of the city of London , who was lord of Stoke and its hamlets in 1316,20 and held one fee here in 1324 of Aylmer de Valence.21 In 1327 this knight's fee was assigned to the pourparty of Thomas le Blount and Juliana his wife , late wife of John de Hastinges , kins man and coheir of Aymer de Valence , as her dower , during the minority of John's heir.22 In 1328 Adam de Coumbemartyn was lord of Stoke Bruern.23 Subsequently Adam de Courtenhall held it with the members as of the honor of Castleacre.24 


 
 
 1. V. C. H. Northants , i . 322 , 328 , 348 , 374 . 


 2. Stapleton , Norm . Excheq . i . p . civ . 3. Red Bk . 424. 4. Mon. Angl .; Cal . Chart . R. iii . 298. 5. R. Cur . Reg . i . 417 ; ii . 18 ; iii . 336 . 6. R. Cancell . 88 . 7. Red Bk . 534 . 10. Testa , 28b , 36. 11. Close R. 228–9 ; R. L. Claus . i . 277-9 . 15. Cal . Inquis . i . 113 . 


 8. Pat . R. 89. 9. Close R. 227 . Excerpt . e R. Fin . i . 243 . 12 . 13. Ibid . 2936 . 14. Pipe R. 21 Hen . III , Hants . 16. Ibid . ii . 182 . 17. Ibid . 289. 18. Ibid . iii . 322. 19. Quo war . 568b ; Abbrev . Placit . 325b . 20. Feud . Aids , iv . 22. 21. Cal . Inquis . vi . 331 . 22. Cal . Close R. 12-13 . 23. Cal . Inquis . vii . 106 . 


 24. Feud . Aids , iv . 43 . 


 
 
 XXXIV . 


 In Buckinghamshire the count of Mortain had in Wing 5 hides . and in Crafton 2 hides which the monks of St. Nicholas ( of Angers ) held . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 431] ===
 
 
 WING , CRAFTON 415 


 
 
 In 1130 the earl of Warenne had exemption of danegeld in Bucks . of 285. , equal to the tax on 14 hides , which probably represented 9 of his 10 hides in Broughton and 5 hides in Cavers field.¹ Apparently Wing and Crafton were not then in his posses sion . The empress Matilda in 1148 gave to St. Nicholas of Angers inter alia the church of Guuiunge . ” 2 


 Giles Talebot gave 100s . rent in Wing to Beaubec abbey in Normandy.3 In 1200 Quintin Talbot gave to Jordan abbot of St. Nicholas of Angers , by Ralph prior of Kirkby , 660 acres of land which the said abbot then held in Wing and Crafton , and acquitted him of all secular service . His charter confirming to St. Nicholas the church of Wing has been cited in the introduction to the honor of Eudes the sewer , where additional information relative to the Talbots has been given . The acquittal was the outcome of a plea originated in 1198 , wherein Quintin Talebot demanded regal services against the prior of Kirkby , who had custody of that land by the abbot of St. Nicholas of Angers.5 In 1209 the agreement between Quintin and the abbot was confirmed , and the abbot gave him 10 marks for confirmation of the charter of Hugh Talebot his ancestor , and of the church of Wing and the lands which the abbot had in alms in Wing and Crafton.6 


 
 
 8 


 In 1234 Ermentrude de Talbot , then beyond seas , had respite of suits of county etc. in respect of her land of Wing , Bucks . " In 1235-6 she held I fee in Wing , and , in 1235 , as the mother of John Talbot and being then over seas , had letters of protection.9 In 1242-3 William Talbot held 1 fee of the Earl of Warenne's fee in Buckinghamshire.10 A mandate was issued in 1244 for taking the manor of Wing into the king's hands , saving to William Talbot his grain and store there , and the manor of Offton , Suffolk , in like manner ; 11 but later in the year they were restored to William Talbot . They had been seised into the king's hands by reason of those who were of the power of the king of France and held lands in England.12 In 1249-53 it was returned that William Talbot held Wing , worth £ 30 yearly.13 


 In 1255 John de Warenne , earl of Surrey , had a grant of a weekly market at Wing , Bucks.14 In 1284-5 the earl held the vill of Wing for I fee , 15 and in 1302-3 John earl of Warenne and his tenants so held it.16 In 1314 the earl granted to Edmund earl of Arundel the manors of Wing , Bucks . , and those of Blackwell , Roding , Housham ( Hall ) , Prittlewell and Yenge Margarete ( Margaretting ) .17 In 1324 it was returned that Quintin Talbot ( sic ) held 2 fees in an unspecified place in Buckinghamshire.18 The record was anachronous . 


 
 
 After the earl of Arundel's capture by the queen's party and his subsequent execution without trial the earl of Surrey re - entered the manor of Wing and other manors in Essex , with the advowson of the priory of Wing , and had confirmation of the same in 1328.19 In 1345 the manor of Wing was assured to Richard earl of Arundel , and his heirs.20 


 
 
 1. Pipe R. 31 Hen . I , 102 . Ch . 112 , D. 59 . 


 
 
 2. Mon. Anglic . vi . 1104b . 3. Harl . 4. Feet of F. ( Rec . Com . ) i . 195. 5. Abbrev . Placit . 7 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 432] ===
 
 
 416 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 6. Ibid . 62. 7. Close R. 495 . 11. Close R. 157 . 


 8. Testa , 258b - 9 , 262 . 12. Ibid . 187 . 


 9. Pat . R. 105 . 13. Testa , 2576 . 


 10. Testa , 246 . 


 14. Cal . Chart . i . 449. 15. Feud . Aids , i . 78. 16. Ibid . 1OI . 17. Cal . 18. Cal . Inquis . vi . 334. 19. Cal . Pat . R. 336. 20. Ibid . 488 . 


 Pat . 175 . 


 
 
 XXXV . 


 In Lincolnshire in 1086 William de Warenne had in Carlton ( Scroop ) 5 car . , which Aldelin his man held . In Yorkshire he had in Barmbrough 6 car . , Bilham I car . , and Warmsworth 1 car . and 6 bovates . 


 
 
 Ellis brother ( and heir ? ) of Fulk de Bosevill held Barmbrough in the time of Henry archbishop of York ( 1147-53 ) , and gave the mill of Harlington and I bov . in Barmbrough to the canons of Nostell . This gift was confirmed by William de Warenne , son of Henry earl of the Northumbrians 2 by Ada or Adeline , daughter of the second earl Warenne , which William appears to have claimed some part at least of the fee of Warenne , as against Stephen's youngest son , William of Blois , after the death of the third earl in 1148. Ellis de Bosevill gave to Lewes the church of Harthill.³ After the death of Ellis this fee appears to have been , partially at least , in the hands of Henry Picot and Leticia his wife , but descended through Otes de Tilly and Dionisia his daughter to her first husband , as will be presently described . 


 Adam de Neufmarché died in or before 1161 , in which year his brother William fined for custody of Adam's land and heir.5 This heir appears to have been Henry de Neufmarché , who married Dionisia daughter and heir of Otes de Tilly , a tenant of the honor of Warenne in Barmbrough , Bilham , and elsewhere . This lady , after the death of Henry de Neufmarché , married Henry de Puiset , son of bishop Hugh Puiset of Durham . In 1170 William de Neufmarché proffered 120 marks for record of a duel , which debt was finally extinguished in 1188. In 1172 his nephew Henry de Neufmarché proffered £ 100 to have his land which had been in the custody of his uncle . He died before Midsummer 1178 , when his land and custody of his widow were committed to his uncle.8 In 1182 Henry de Puiset ( Pusaz ' ) proffered £ 100 that he might take to wife the daughter of Otes de Tilli.⁹ 


 6 


 Adam son and heir of Henry was of age about 1195. He was pardoned in 1201 20 marks of a loan of 50 marks made to him at Domfront , 10 and in 1212 held 4 fees of the honor of Tickhill.11 


 
 
 In 1213 his sons John and Adam were hostages in the custody of William de Harecurt at Corfe , but were restored to him upon security given by Saher earl of Winchester and Gerard de Furni vall.12 Again in 1219 the constable of Knaresborough was ordered to release the son of Adam de Neufmarché , whom king John had taken as a hostage for Adam's fidelity.13 In that year and in 1226 Adam was patron of the church of Carlton Scroop.14 there was a suit by Hugh prior of Lewes against Adam de Neuf marché about the advowson of the church of Hatfield , Yorks.15 


 In 1227 


 
 
 4 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 433] ===
 
 
 CARLTON SCROOP , BARMBROUGH 417 


 
 
 From Bracton's Note - Book we learn that Adam demanded against William earl of Warenne and the prior of Lewes the advowson of the church of Hatfield , as son of Henry de Neufmarché by his wife Dionisia , daughter and heir of Otes de Tilli by his wife Mabel , daughter and heir of William Fitz - Raven.16 William Fitz - Raven had been sheriff of William earl of Warenne ( 1148-1159 ) at Wakefield.17 Otes de Tilly had been seneschal of earl Hameline at Conisborough.18 In 1229 Hugh parson of Carlton released to Lewes his claim in the tithes from the demesne of Adam de Neuf In 1242-3 marché , formerly the demesne of the earl of Warenne.19 Adam held I fee in Barmbrough and Bilham and I fee in Warmsworth of the fee of the earl of Warenne , 20 and his son John held 1 fee in Carlton Scroop , Lincs . , of the same fee.21 Adam died in 1247 , John his son having predeceased him , whereupon John's son Adam did homage for the land that Adam de Neufmarché , whose heir he was , had held of the honor of Tickhill.22 In 1241 an agree ment was made between Matilda countess of Warenne and this Adam touching a watercourse or drain in Balne , 23 and another in 1253 between John de Warenne and Adam de Neufmarché , son of John , touching the same.24 


 Ι 


 In 1272 Adam de Neufmarché assured to Durant abbot of St. Mary's , Cherbourg , land in Carlton Scroop.25 Adam de Neufmarché , knt . , died during the period 1288–9 , leaving apparently a grandson John his heir , who was going with the earl of Lincoln in 1301 beyond seas , and was addressed in a mandate of 1308 as John son of Adam de Novo Mercato.26 Sir Adam had a son Adam , living in 1273 ; 27 and Joan , possibly relict of Sir Adam , petitioned Parliament touching her dower in Bentley in 1290.28 She was named as his relict in 1289.29 Another Adam was dead in 1291 , leaving a widow Cecily , who had lands of her own inheritance in Redburn , near Hibaldstow , Lincs . , 30 but it is uncertain whose relict she was . 


 
 
 In 1303 John de Neufmarché held 1 fee in Carlton Scroop.31 He was dead 20 May , 1310 , when Amice or Avice his relict held for life the manor of Kedington , Suff . , of the inheritance of Roger de Neufmarché . She was living in Yorkshire at this time and was too infirm to appear before the King's Bench to assert her right to the manor , for which Margery de Wyluby and John her son were impleading Roger de Neufmarché.32 Margaret de Wyleby was lady of Kedington in 1316 , and in 1346 it was recorded that half a fee there was formerly held of the heir of Adam de Neufmarché.3 The connexion between the families of Neufmarché and Willoughby is explained by a charter cited by Hunter in the History of South Yorkshire . 


 
 
 In 1317 free warren in Carlton Scroop was granted to Avice late wife of John de Neufmarché for her life and thereafter to Geoffrey le Scrop and his heirs , and similarly to Elizabeth late the wife of Adam de Neufmarché for her life and thereafter to Geoffrey le Scrop.34 So much of these tenements as lay in York shire and had not been alienated appears to have descended to Roger de Neufmarché , younger brother and heir of John de Neuf marché . Geoffrey le Scrop died in 1340 seised of the manor , it 


 2 E 


 III . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 434] ===
 
 
 418 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 being held of the earl of Warenne for an arrow yearly ; Henry his son and heir was aged 25 and more.35 


 Henry le Scrope died in 1336 seised of a messuage and I caru cate held of John earl of Warenne by knight's service ; 36 William his son was then aged 16 years , and died similarly seised in 1344 , leaving a brother and heir Richard , aged 17 or more.37 


 
 
 3. Lewes Chartul . 


 1. Nostell Chartul . p . 576 . 2. Ibid . pp . 57-8 . P. 3036. 4. Nostell Chartul . pp . 576-8 . Henry Picot was earl Hameline's constable of Conisborough ; Mon. Anglic . iii . 618b . 5. Pipe R. 7 Hen . II , 37 6. Ibid . 16 Hen . II , 41. 7. Ibid . 18 Hen . II , 63. 8. Ibid . 24 Hen . II , 76 . 9. Ibid . 28 Hen . II , 45. 10. R. de Liberate , 23. 11. Red Bk . 181. 12. Pat . R. 105 . 13. Ibid . 188. 14. Regist . Welles , i . 176 ; iii . 147. 15. Pat . R. 206b . 16. Genealogist N.S. vi . 9. 17. Mon. Anglic . vi . 99. 18. Ibid . iii . 6186. 19. Vesp . F. xv . f . 209. 20. Testa , 364b . 21. Ibid . 311 , 324b . 22. Excerpt . e R. Fin . ii . 19. 23. Cat . of Anct . D. v . A. 11128. 24. Ibid . A. 10762 . 25. Linc . Feet of F. ( Rec . Soc . ) , 243 . 26. Cal . Pat . 46 . 27. Cat . of Anct . D. iv . A. 7223. 28. Rolls of Parliament , i . 62. 29. Cal . Close , 53. Cf. Cat . of Anct . D. iv . A. 9883. 30. Cal . Close , 177 . 31. Feud . Aids , iii . 171 . 32. Cal . Close 211. 33. Feud . Aids , v . 76. 34. Cal . Chart . iii . 366. 35. Cal . Inquis . viii . 205 . 36. Ibid . viii . 18. 37. Ibid . 399 . 


 
 
 XXXVI . 


 In Lincolnshire William de Warenne in 1086 had in Bennington , a berewick of Carlton ( Scroop ) , 2 car . and 2 bov . 


 The homage and service of Roger Purden was given by William son of Ralph son of Drew son of Hermer , founder of the abbey of Humberston , Lincs . , to that monastery , and so Robert de St. Paul who descended from the said Roger , held of the abbot . In 1244-5 Agnes late the wife of William de St. Paul was required to render to the abbot of Humberston Robert son of the said William , whose custody belonged to him , as he said.¹ This William held in 1242-3 of the fee of the earl of Warenne fee said to be in Foston , 2 and elsewhere described as in Bennington.3 Robert de St. Paul was a juror on the inquest for the return from the hundred or wapentake of Bradley , Lincs . , in 1275.4 According to one return the king held the fee in Foston in 1303 which William de St. Paul held in 1242-3,5 but elsewhere William de St. Paul was said to hold it in 1303. The prior of Long Bennington held it in 1346.7 


 3 


 6 


 
 
 1. Linc . Notes and Queries , ix . 151 . 4. R. Hund . i . 263. 5. Feud . Aids , iii . 171 . 


 
 
 2. Testa , 311 . 


 
 
 6. Ibid . 175 . 


 
 
 3. Ibid . 324b . 7. Ibid . 214 . 


 
 
 XXXVII . 


 In Yorkshire William de Warenne had in 1086 in Cusworth 3 carucates . 


 Ancher de Freschenvill attested in 1197 a charter of John count of Mortain.¹ In 1200 Anker de Freschevill had £ 50 yearly for his fee , as an official of king John , until lands to that value should be assigned to him.2 In 1212 he held 1 fee in Sussex of the countess of Eu.3 In 1218 a mandate was issued to Ives de 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 435] ===
 
 
 CUSWORTH - WALTON , SHEPLEY , DALTON 419 


 
 
 4 


 7 


 8 


 Heriz to deliver Ralph , son and heir of Anker de Fressunvill , to Philip Mark , to whom Ralph's wardship and marriage had been . given . In 1225 the said Ralph fined 100 marks for the land of Hubert Fitz - Ralph of Crich , as one of Hubert's heirs.5 Hugh ( potius Hubert ) Fitz - Ralph was described in a plea in 1231 as Ralph's grandfather . Ralph's father Anker married Juliana , one of the daughters and heirs of Hubert Fitz - Ralph , lord of Crich.6 In 1237 Ralph de Freschenevill claimed knight's fee in Dorking against William earl Warenne , but released his claim on receiving land in Conisborough , Yorks . In 1242-3 he held fee in Cusworth , Yorks . , of the fee of the earl of Warenne , and more than 5 fees of the barony of Hubert Fitz - Ralph.9 In 1251 Ralph de Freschevill had a grant of free warren in Cusworth , and in the manor of Boneye , Notts , and various places in Derbyshire.10 He died in 1261 , holding lands of the barony of Crich , and left Anker his son and heir , 11 who held in or before 1268 his late father's estate and land in Staveley , Derbys . , of the inheritance of Amice his wife , she being a coheiress of Ralph Musard.12 In 1269 Brian de Brampton had the wardship of the manor of Crich , late of Anker de Fressenevill , which the king gave to the said Brian in the form of the award of Kenilworth , by occasion of trespasses charged against Anker in the time of the late disturbance.13 His lands had been seized in 1264 and himself taken prisoner at Northampton , but he and others were to be exchanged for prisoners taken at Lewes , or released on mainprise.14 The said Ancher ( or his son ? ) held at his death in 1287 the tenements named above , and left Ralph his son and heir , aged 22 years . For the later descent of the family see Collect . Topog . et Genealog . iv . 3 ff . Mr. Jeayes prints many charters relating to this family in his Derbyshire Charters . 


 15 


 It does not appear at what date the fee in Cusworth was alienated , nor to whom . In 1298 Ralph de Fressenvill attested a charter of Nicholas Musard of Saintbury and ‘ Musarderi ' ( Miserden ) , Gloucs.¹ 


 16 


 
 
 1. Cat . of Anct . D. iv . A. 6686. 2. R. de Liberate , 3 , 8. 3. Red Bk . 554 , 623. 4. R. L. Claus . i . 381b . 5. Excerpt . e R. Fin . i . 134 . 6. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 486 . Feet of F. , Divers and Unkn . Counties , 


 7 . 


 
 
 239/10 , n . 137. 8. Testa , 364b . 9. Ibid . 6 , 126. 10. Cal . Chart , i . 371 . 11. Cal . Inquis . i . 140 ; Excerpt . ii . 347. 12. Cal . Inquis . i . 140 , 221 , 224 . 13. Cal . Pat . 353. 14. Ibid . 1264 , pp . 313 , 359. 15. Cal . Inquis . ii . 375 


 16. Cat . of Anct . D. i . A. 934 . 


 
 
 XXXVIII . 


 In Yorkshire the king had in 1086 in Walton 8 car . ( of which 4 car . passed to the fee of Warenne ) , Shelley I car . , Shepley 2 car . , Quarmby ( something besides 2 car . held by Ilbert de Lascy ) , ( West ) Bretton I car . , Thurstanland 1 car ( ? ) , and ( Upper ) Cumberworth 


 I car . 


 
 
 William de Warenne had in Dalton ( par . of Rotherham ) 3 car . In 1226 Thomas de Burgh recovered against Diana late wife of Geoffrey de Beslum fee in Shepley which she had claimed in dower.¹ În a plea in 1231 it was shewn that Matthew de Shepley , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 436] ===
 
 
 420 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 father of Matthew the plaintiff , purchased from Thomas son of Isabel 1 bovate in Bretton , I bovate in Clayton and bovate in Thurstanland ; on Matthew's decease Henry de Sellay had had the wardship of Matthew son and heir of the said Matthew with his land.2 


 
 
 The elder Matthew de Shepley was steward of William earl of Warenne in 1219 , when the earl was impleaded by Ralph de Eccleshale of having disseised him of his free tenement in Dalton.3 The records show that this fee was held by many tenants in small holdings . 


 In 1242-3 one knight's fee was held in Walton ( ‘ Walfon ' ) , Shelley , Shepley , Dalton , Quarmby , Bretton , Thurstanland and Cumberworth of the earl of Warenne's fee . Of these tenements the family of Burgh held fee in Walton and fee in Shepley . It is by no means improbable that Adam Fitz - Swain was tenant of the earls of Warenne of all these tenements . In 1284-5 John de Morthen and Peter de Rodes held the vill of Morthen , par . of Rotherham , of John earl Warenne for fee . It would be possible to show that several other knights ' fees were held of the earls of Warenne in the 13th century in other vills in Yorkshire than those already named ; but the account would occupy much space . The surrenders made by John de Warenne , earl of Surrey , to Edward II of the castles of Lewes , Conisbrough , Sandal , and prac tically the whole of his fee , are enrolled on the Close Roll under date 17 June , 1326.6 


 5 


 The extent of the Warenne fee in Yorkshire made in 1327 records that the castles of Sandal and Conisbrough , with the towns , manors and lands pertaining to them , were held in chief for 2 fees , and the manors of Hatfield , Thorne and Fishlake by the service of I fee . ? 


 
 
 1. Feet of F. Yorks . 17 , n . 18 . 2. Assize R. 1042 , m . 26. 3. Ibid . 1040 , m . 5d .; Add . MS . 12269 , f . 4b . 4. Testa , 264b . 5. Kirkby's Quest , 7 . 6. Cal . 573 . 7. Cal . Inquis . vii . 58. Cf. Ibid . ix . 48 . 


 
 
 XXXIX . 


 In Oxfordshire in 1086 William de Warenne held in Maple durham 7 hides . 


 
 
 Tithes of Mapledurham were given to Lewes priory some time . after 1121. Some account of the early members of this Norman family of Gournai - sur - Epte , in the Pais de Bray , on the confines of Normandy and France , will be found in the publications of the Bedfordshire Historical Record Society ( vol . iii . 153-7 ) . The reader is also referred to D. Gurney's House of Gournay . Much of the property which the family held in England seems to have been bestowed by the crown in order to secure the fidelity of a family whose service was important to the security of Normandy . Maple durham was doubtless the maritagium of Edith sister of William second earl of Warenne , who married Gerard elder son of Hugh de Gurnay I ( Hugh III in Normandy ) by his wife Basilia , daughter of 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 437] ===
 
 
 MAPLEDURHAM 421 


 
 
 Gerard Flaitel , ¹ which Hugh held at the Domesday survey the three Essex manors of Liston , Ardleigh and Fordham , none of which descended in his line . He became a monk at Bec . To Basilia and her son Hugh may be assigned the gifts to the abbey of St. Mary of Bec of a moiety of Lungoly ( Longueil , Seine - Inf . ) 2 and Le Bois de Girard ; to Gerard the gift of Lisingham ' ( Lessingham , Norf . ) . Gerard and Edith had several children , including Hugh II . Edith married , secondly , Drew de Monceaux , Gerard having died in the Crusades.2a 


 
 
 3 


 From Stephen , Hugh de Gurnay II ( IV ) obtained a grant of the important crown manor of Wendover , Bucks . In 1155 and until 1156 Hugh de Gurnay's manors of Wendover and Houghton Regis , Beds . , were in the king's hands at a yearly farm of £ 60 ; ³ the king then granted Wendover away . In 1165 the sheriff of Norfolk accounted for 10 marks from the land of Hugh de Gurnay . At Midsummer 1173 the king by writ de ultra mare ' granted to Hugh de Gurnay the younger lands in Houghton Regis and in Norfolk and Suffolk to the value of £ 50 per annum.5 This grant continued but 3 months , for the rolls of the three ensuing years show that Hugh's serjeants had carried away the stock and implements of husbandry from Wickham and the king's part of the manor of Hintlesham , Suff . , and the sheriff of Buckingham had received for the king the farm of Bledlow . This manor was the king's escheat until Easter 1182 , when Henry gave it to Geoffrey his son and chancellor . As a result of the loss to Hugh of this manor king Richard in 1197 confirmed to St. Mary's , Bec , an exchange made to them by Hugh de Gurnay of rent and tithe in his Norman lands for land previously given in his manor of Bledlow . " Hugh II married ( 1 ) Beatrix de Vermandois and ( 2 ) Milicent de Couci . Hugh and Milicent founded a nunnery at Gaille - Fontaine , Pais de Brai , approved by Hugh archbishop of Rouen ( who died in 1164 ) , and removed it to Clair - Ruissel soon afterwards , as appears by their charter and the confirmation of archbishop Rotrou ( 1164-83 ) . To this house they gave the church of Mapledurham , Oxon . , and 2 marks of silver yearly from Caister , Norf . , with the assent of their sons Gerard and Hugh.7a They also gave the church of Kim berley in Norfolk . Hugh II is said to have died in the Holy Land , and was succeeded by his son Hugh . 


 In 1179 Hugh de Gurnay III ( V ) gave £ 100 for a fine for relief of his land , and 40 marks and a destrier for a loan made to his father.³ A return , made apparently by the Great Inquest of Service in Buckinghamshire in 1212 , states that king Stephen gave the manor of Wendover to Hugh de Gurnay , father of Hugh , who held it during Stephen's life ; that Henry II , after his coronation , allowed Hugh to hold the manor without payment ( sine dono ) ; that upon Henry's return from Toulouse he seised the manor into his own hands as his demesne and gave it to another ( as described ) , his grant and the confirmation of king Richard being duly recited ; but Hugh de Gurnay ( III ) shewed ( in 1212 ) a charter of Henry II confirming to Milisent de Gurnay the dower which her husband Hugh ( II ) had given to her , namely Gaille - Fontaine in Normandy and in England 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 438] ===
 
 
 422 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 the new land that king Stephen gave to Hugh in augmentation of his inheritance , which Hugh gave to his wife , namely Wendover and Houghton Regis and the land that Edith ( Ediva ) mother of Hugh had in England , possibly a reference to Mapledurham . The statement is not consistent in all respects with the evidence of the Pipe rolls . 


 9 


 
 
 The younger Hugh's fine and loan remained unpaid until 1186 , when it was shewn that the fine of £ 100 for his English lands had been rendered at the exchequer of Normandy.10 Richard I at his accession restored Houghton Regis , as 23 librates of land , to Hugh de Gurnay.11 In 1201 Hugh held it as 40 librates , 12 and in 1202 king John restored to him Wendover , saving the year's corn crop to ( Felicia ) the widow of Ingram de Fienes.13 In 1200 the king confirmed to the canons of Bellozanne ( near Gournay ) the site where the abbey was founded in 1198 by Hugh de Gurnay , with a parcel of the forest of Bray near the abbey , and with churches and lands.14 Hugh soon afterwards founded the nunnery of St. Aubin.15 In May 1203 writs were issued for the seizure of Hugh's lands in Normandy and England upon his withdrawal from service to John.16 Hugh's land in Cantley and Caister , Norf . , the land of Hugh de Agée in Norfolk , and all other the lands of Hugh de Gurnay betrayor ' in Norfolk and Suffolk , were committed to John Marshal , son of William Marshal , earl of Pembroke.17 Other land in Norfolk of this fee lay in Swathings , where Hugh de Gurnay II had given . a manor to Robert de Burgeinuin , which Hugh son of the donor confirmed to Hugh son of Robert de Burguinuin.18 A grant by Hugh de Gurnay II and Millesent his wife to his tenant of 5 librates of land in Bledlow was attested by William de Merlo , Oliver de Age , Hodus de Brumustier , Hugh de Burgeinuin , and others.19 Hugh III is said to have married Juliana de Danmartin , and had issue Gerard , Hugh , and Millesent.19a Millesent daughter of Hugh de Gurnay , married Aumari earl of Gloucester , and upon his decease in 1214 married William de Cantelupe the younger.20 She had land in France and in Petersfield , Hants . , and Mapledurham for her dower.21 


 our 


 
 
 On 13 February , 1206 , the king pardoned Hugh the malevolence he bore him for his withdrawal , and directed that his lands should be restored , including Pillarton , Warws.22 In September 1213 the sheriff of York was notified that the king had given Hugh de Gornay the honor of Whorlton and Rudby , Yorks . , with the chattels on the demesne.23 In 1214 he obtained a grant of a yearly fair at Wendover.24 A note of some of his English possessions will be found in Powicke's The Loss of Normandy , pp . 497-8 . He died before mid - March 1215 ; 25 on 9 September previous , in anticipa tion of his impending death , he prayed the king to take the homage of his eldest son Gerard , which the king did.26 


 There is no further mention of Gerard , and in 1216 Hugh IV , younger son of Hugh de Gurnay , having succeeded to the inheritance , obtained his fees in Norfolk and Suffolk , which the king's enemies had held of Hugh and were then in the king's hands.27 But if he obtained he did not retain Wendover , 28 for it 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 439] ===
 
 
 MAPLEDURHAM 423 


 
 
 was delivered in August of that year to William de Fienes , 29 and in September Hugh's lands in Norfolk and Suffolk were committed to John Marshal until peace should be made between the king and his barons ; Hugh's lands in Buckinghamshire and Lincolnshire being committed to another.30 


 
 
 In 1222 Henry III restored to Hugh son of Hugh de Gurnay all his lands in Norfolk and Suffolk , 31 and in the soc of Waltham , Lincs.32 


 
 
 In 1233 Hugh de Gurnay had a royal gift of 2 bucks and 10 does from Windsor forest for restocking his park of Mapledurham , Oxon.33 In 1239 Matilda late wife of Hugh de Gurnay held the manor of Mapledurham in dower.34 It is possible that she subse quently married Roger de Clifford . 


 
 
 Juliana , daughter and heir of Hugh de Gornay , married William Bardolf the younger ( n . 2 ) .35 In 1255 Mapledurham of the fee of Gornay had its park , where four years earlier malefactors had hunted ; one Nicholas de Mongewell was suspected ; he gave to Sir Roger de Clifford , lord of the vill and park , a soar - hawk for having peace.36 Geoffrey de Chausi then held Little Mapledur ham of the honor of Wallingford.37 In 1276 William Bardolf had warren here . 38 


 
 
 In 1272 John de Chausy was impleaded by William Bardolf the younger and Juliana his wife touching common of pasture of Mapledurham Chauzey , Oxon . , of which Hugh de Gurnay , father of Juliana , had been seised , as belonging to his free tenement in Mapledurham Gornay.39 In 1271 the priory of Lewes had 14s . yearly in tithes in this place.40 


 William Bardolf died in 1290 holding inter alia of the inherit ance of Juliana de Gurnay , his wife , the manor of Mapledurham , held of the earl of Warenne for I fee.41 In 1304 John Bardolf had a grant of free warren at Mapledurham , 42 and in 1316 was returned as lord of Mapledurham Gornay.43 


 In 1341 John Bardolf of Wormegay had licence to grant to John Bardolf of Mapledurham and 3 others 2 of his Norfolk manors for their lives at £ 150 rent . " 


 44 


 
 
 1. Orderic , Hist . Eccles.iii . 322. 2. Mon. Angl . vi . 10686. 2a . Gurney , House of Gournay , 69. 3. Pipe R. 2 Hen . II , 24. 4. Ibid . 11 Hen . II , 9. 5. Ibid . 19 Hen . II , 70 , 118–9 . 6. Ibid . 20 Hen . II , 39 , 86. 7. Cal . Chart . R. iv . 261 . 7a . Mon. Angl . vi . 1088. 7b . Gurney , op . cit . 118. 8. Pipe R. 25 Hen . II , 7 . 9. Abbrev . Placit . 79. 10. Pipe R. 32 Hen . II , 60. 11. Ibid . 1 Ric . I , 30 . 12. R. Cancel . 341. 13. R. Liberate , 32. 14. R. Chart . 33. 15. Gurnay , 


 op . cit . 159. 16. R. Liberate , 92 , 94-5 , 117. 17. R. Chart . 116b . 18. Stapleton , Norman Excheq . i . p . cxxvi . 19. Cat . of Anct . D. vi . C. 5895. 19a . Gurney , op . cit . 143. 20. Stapleton , op . cit . p . cxliv . 21. R. Lit. Claus . i . 141 , 300b . 22. Ibid . i . 65 , 67 23. Ibid . 149. 24. Ibid . 209. 25. Ibid . 191. 26. Ibid . 


 1726. 27. R. Fin . 596. 28. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 1465. 29. R. Lit. Claus.i . 283 , 286b . 30. Ibid . 287b , 3086 , 348. 31. Ibid . 494b . 32. Excerpt . Fin . i . 86 . 33. Close R. 277 . 34. Excerpt . Fin . i . 328. 35. Cal . Fine R. i . 184 . 36. R. Hund . i . 38 . 37. Ibid . 42 . 38. Ibid . 336 . 39. Abbrev . Placit . 184b . 40. Cat . of Anct . D. A. 7918 , 7963. 41. Cal . Inquis . ii . 469 . 42. Cal . Chart . iii . 43 . 43. Feud . Aids , iv . 170 . 44. Cal . Pat . R. 273 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 440] ===
 
 
 424 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 XL . 


 In Suffolk William de Warenne had in 1086 in Burgh ( in Carl ford Hundred ) 1 car . 20 a . , which R ( obert ) de Glanvill held of him ; in Boulge car . and 13 a . which Robert held ; in Debach 4 a . ; in Torstanestuna ' 6 a . which R ( obert ) de Glanvill held ; in Bredfield 3 a . which the same Robert held . 


 In Norfolk land in Tilney and Wiggenhall may have been in volved in the manor of Castleacre . 


 
 
 Robert de Glanvill also held lands in these counties of Robert Malet , which seem , though Robert himself is not known to have had any children , to have been held by kinsmen of the same sur name , descending to the coheirs ( six sisters ) of Geoffrey de Glanvill . The lands held of Warenne , however , may have been granted out otherwise after Robert's death . About the only connexion of the family of Glanvill , or the heirs general of Geoffrey de Glanvill , with the fee of Warenne is that in 1240 the service of Geoffrey de Glan vill of 1 knight's fee in Norfolk was assigned to the dower of the countess Matilda , ¹ and that in 1324 William de Glanvill held of Aymer de Valence I knight's fee in an unknown place in Norfolk.2 


 The only Suffolk vill known as Thurstanston ( now Thurston in Hawkdon ) is at the other side of the county from Burgh by Grundis borough and the other places named above , so that its identifica tion is doubtful . Yet a Bury St. Edmund's charter records that William count of Mortain and earl of Warenne ( 1148-59 ) gave to the abbey land which had belonged to Reginald son of Eudes of Turstaneton of the fee of Roger the Poitevin , among the witnesses being Reginald de Warenne , Bartholomew and Ranulf de Glanvill.3 Later Thurstanston seems to have come to the Multon family , being held of the earl of Lancaster , and then to the Haringtons of Cumberland.5 


 
 
 In 1207 Thomas de Ingoldesthorp had land in Tilney adjoining the fee of Thomas de Burc . In 1208 he and another were impli cated in the killing of Dreu brother of John the chamberlain . Thomas escaped by endowing a monk or canon of the slain man's kindred at one of the following houses : Norwich , Castleacre , Binham , or ( if a canon ) Thetford , Cocksford or Walsingham . The other escaped by serving seven years in the land around Jerusalem , or justice to be done as if convicted in case he returned within that term.7 


 
 
 In the time of Henry I William de Glanvill gave to the monks of Acre , whom he established at Bacton , inter alia tithes of Burgh . & But this was in Castle Burgh in Lothingland hundred . Bartholo mew his son removed the monastery to Bromholm . In or before 1229 Geoffrey de Glanvill gave to the monastery a rent of m . out of his lands.9 


 
 
 In 1235 Burgh in Lothingland hundred was held by Ralph de Burgo by the service of a crossbow - man for 40 days at Norwich castle at his own cost.1 10 Roger de Burgo had held the same serjeanty in 1219.11 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 441] ===
 
 
 CASTLEACRE , TILNEY - WIMBOTSHAM 425 


 
 
 Possibly this tenement may be identified as the following : Wicbert or Wibert de Achra gave to Castleacre his mill with the consent of his wife and sons Rotbert and Rainald.12 In 1166 Robert de Chefrevill held 2 fees of the honor of Wormegay.13 Walter de Capravilla attested a Clenchwarton charter.14 In 1199 a fine was levied between Simon son of Roger de Cherevill or Chevrevill and Robert son of Walter de Cherevill of land in Tilney , Norf.15 In 1200 Peter de Hautbois was impleading the prior of Westacre , the prior of Eastacre alias Castleacre , and the prior of Pentney for proceeding in his cause touching a lay fee against the prohibition of the justices.16 In 1212 the earl of Warenne held Est Acre ' in Freebridge hundred of the king by service . unknown.17 


 
 
 In 1231 and 1232 Roger de Chevrevill was sick and unable to warrant land in a Norfolk vill.18 Walter de Caprevill , with the assent of Isabel his wife , gave a man to Castleacre.19 


 In 1242-3 Fretheric de Chervill held 1 fee in Castleacre of the fee of the earl of Warenne , 20 and 2 fees of the honor of Wormegay in Tilney and Wiggenhall.21 He was party to a fine levied in 1246-7 touching a watercourse in Terrington . Reginald de Karevill and Alice his wife gave to St. Benet's , Hulme , their manor of Grensevill , in the time of abbot Adam ( 1256–68 ) ; 22 Alice was daughter of Richard Rokele.23 In 1267-8 a fine of lands in Tilney was levied between Alice de Chervill and Philip de Chervill.24 In 1275 Roger de Chervill , knt . , had lands in Beechamwell.25 


 In 1302-3 the prior of Castleacre held 1 fee in Eastacre of the earl Warenne ; 26 William de Bradenham held for term of his life . 


 fee in Tilney and Wiggenhall of the abbot of Wendling of the honor of Warenne ; William de Chervill , Thomas at Grange , and their parceners fee in Tilney and Wiggenhall of the honor of Warenne.27 


 8 


 
 
 1. Close R. 214 . 4. Cal . Inquis . ii . 383 . Plac . 56. 7. Ibid . 6ob . Fees , 403 . 11. Ibid . 282 . 14. Vesp . F. xv . f . 283d . iii . 335 . 17. Bk . of Fees , 19. Harl . MS . 2110 , f . 8 . ii . f . 138. 23. Ibid . 26. Feud . Aids , iii . 408 . 


 
 
 2. Cal . Inquis . vi . 335 . 


 3. Add . MS . 7096 , f . 72d . 5. Feet of F. Suff . 15 Edw . III , n . 7 . 8. Mon. Anglic . v . 63 . 9. Ibid . 65 . 


 6. Abbrev . 10. Bk . of 


 12. Mon. Anglic . v . 50. 13. Red Bk . 399 . 15. Norf . Feet of F. p . 12. 16. R. Cur . Reg . 133 . 18. Bracton's Note - Bk . nn . 562 , 858 . 20. Testa , 287. 21. Red Bk . 743. 22. Galba E. 24. Norf . Feet of F. p . 104. 25. R. Hund . i . 459b . 27. Ibid . 409 . 


 
 
 XLI . 


 In Norfolk William de Warenne in 1086 had in Wimbotsham 1 carucate . 


 For the possible ancestor of the Ingoldesthorpes see Warenne ( n . 24 ) and Ârundel ( n . 61 ) . Blomefield derives them from a local family at Snettisham . William the chamberlain held land in Wimbotsham of the second earl of Warenne and gave tithes there to Castleacre.¹ Alan son of Robert de Snetisham , alias de Ingoldestorp , occurs temp . Richard I , and Alan de Ingoldestorp in 1199.3 William prior of St. Pancras ( c . 1170 or c . 1200 ) gave to 


 2 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 442] ===
 
 
 426 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 Robert son of Alan de Ingoldestorp the land of Kenewic with its appurtenances at a rent of 20 marks.4 Thomas de Ingoldestorp , Sibil his wife , and Matilda his mother occur in 1202-3 in fines relating to Snettisham and other places in Norfolk , and again in 1207.5 Sibil had previously been wife of Peter de Bekeswell , and was dead in 1218.6 


 
 
 7 


 9 


 In October 1216 the land of Thomas de Ingoldesthorp in Norfolk was committed to one of the king's valets . When the earl of Arundel returned to allegiance in 1217 Thomas de Ingoldes thorp obtained a writ of reseisin to the sheriff of Norfolk.8 In 1223 and after he served as a special justice in Norfolk , and as one of the keepers of Yarmouth fair.10 In the following year he was appointed sheriff of Norfolk and Suffolk , 11 and in 1229 was one of the keepers of the temporalities of Ely . Thomas son of Thomas de Ingaudestorp and Robert de Scales in 1228 acquired the advowson of the church of Clenchwarton from the abbot of Derham , paying 20 marks.12 They also obtained the advowson of South Rainham.13 In 1233 Thomas was one of the heirs general of Fulk de Beaufou who were demanding against William earl of Warenne 4 carucates in Wilton and 3 carucates in Fouldon , and in that year and until 1235 he was keeper of Rising castle.14 In November 1234 Hamon Fitz - Walter quitclaimed to Thomas de Ingaldestorp and Isabel his wife , and the heirs of Isabel , his right in fee in Wimbotsham and other places ; and for this William earl of Warenne , at Thomas's petition , gave him land at Castleacre . Thomas and Isabel , for Isabel's heirs , in return released to the earl all their right in the manor of Hilgay.¹ 15 Robert son of Walter de Denver put in his claim to Wimbotsham , but afterwards released it.16 In 1235 he was one of the 4 knights appointed to be wardens of Yarmouth fair , and in the ensuing year was sheriff for one year of Norfolk and Suffolk and constable of the castles of Norwich and Orford.17 In 1238 he had exemption for a year from being put on assizes and the like.18 Presumably he died about that time . 


 
 
 1 


 In 1242-3 Thomas de Ingoldesthorpe II held fee in Wim botsham of the fee of Warenne.19 See also ' Eudes the sewer ( n . 21 ) , where a reference to this Thomas and Isabel his wife under date 1230 will be found . In 1249 he had exemption for life from assizes , 20 and died before mid - March 1252 holding land in Colne , Essex , of the inheritance of Isabel his wife and leaving Thomas his son and heir , then aged 16 years . Wardship of his land and heirs and the marriage of Isabel his relict was granted to a crown nominee . In that year there was trespass and robbery on land in Hillington , Norf . , late of the said Thomas , which was then in the king's hands.21 John de Ingoldesthorpe succeeded . In 1265 he was at the battle of Lewes with Henry de Hastinges , whereupon his lands in Tilney and in the hundred of Smithdon , Norf . , were seized.22 ( See Arundel , n . 61. ) Later , he was in the service of the king's son and was admitted to pardon.23 In 1268 the king claimed against him the advowson of the church of Clenchwarton by reason of wardship of the land and heir of Robert de Scales , 24 who was one of the heirs 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 443] ===
 
 
 WIMBOTSHAM 427 


 
 
 general of Fulk de Beaufou . In 1270 , going to the Holy Land , he had licence to demise for 5 years his manors of Ingoldisthorpe , Rainham and Kenwick in Tilney , Norf.25 In 1275 he held in Brothercross hundred , Norf . , I fee of the honor of Dover ; land in Snettisham was held of him ; in Tilney he claimed wreck of the sea.26 Master Thomas de Ingoldesthorpe , sometime archdeacon of Middlesex and dean of St. Paul's , bishop of Rochester 1283-1291 , was possibly his kinsman . John died in 1283 holding Wimbotsham and the church for fee of the manor of Castleacre and lands in Norfolk of many fees ; Thomas his son was aged 22 years . Ela late wife of Thomas de Ingoldesthorpe held certain of the lands in dower . No lands in Essex were named ; but the deceased had held I fee in East Rainham and Ilsington in chief , rendering 10s . to the ward of Dover Castle , and land in Tilney of the bishop of Ely and Sir William de Thiryngton.28 


 27 


 31 


 In 1301 Thomas de Ingoldesthorp claimed that he and Robert de Scales were lords of the manor of Rainham with view of frank pledge there ; they had caused a pillory to be thrown down which had been raised by Thomas de Hauvill , lord of a third part of the manor.29 In 1302-3 Thomas de Ingoldesthorpe held inter alia fee in Wimbotsham of the earl of Warenne.30 In 1321 he was a commissioner of sewers for the Marshland around Lynn.3 In 1324 he held the tenement described in 1302-3 of Aymer de Valence , earl of Pembroke , 32 and in 1325 had exemption for life from serving on assizes and the like.33 In 1327 he held fee in Wimbotsham of David de Strabolgi , earl of Athol , 34 to whom and to Joan his wife the service of the said Thomas had been assigned in 1326 upon the division of the lands of Aymer de Valence.35 The date of his death is not known , but John de Ingoldisthorpe succeeded , was a com missioner of sewers in Marshland , Norf . , in 1334 , 36 and died in 1336 , when Joan his relict , who subsequently married Gilbert Pecche , had dower assigned in the presence of Thomas son and heir of the said John.37 Thomas survived only a brief term and , dying in November 1337 , was succeeded by his brother William , aged 21 years , who through official obstinacy did not obtain livery of his inheritance until February 1339.39 In 1346 dame Beatrice , probably relict of Thomas de Ingoldesthorpe , held fee in Wim botsham of this honor.40 


 38 


 
 
 2. Blomefield , op . cit . iv . 690 . 5. Abbrev . Placit . 56 . Claus . i . 290b . 8 . 


 11. Ibid . 438 . 


 1. Mon. Anglic . v . 50b . Regis . ii . 49. 4. Vesp . F. xv . f . 277 . of F. Norf . 155/34 , n . 3 . 7. R. Lit. 9. Ibid . 552 . 10. Pat . R. 384 , 469 . Norf . 155/47 , n . 327. 13. Ibid . n . 326. 14. Close R. 340 , 352. 15. Feet of F. Norf . 156/58 , n . 606. 16. Ibid . 156/60 , n . 656. 17. Cal . Pat . R. 19. Testa , 2876. 20. Cal . Inquis . i . 59 . Cal . Misc . Ing . i . 249 , 251 . 


 23. Cal . Pat . 


 25. Cal . Pat . R. 480 , 517. 26. R. Hund . 28. Ibid . ii 283. 29. Abbrev . Abbrev . Placit . 339. 32. Cal . 34. Ibid . vi . 482. 35. Cal . Close R. 600 , 634. 38. Cal . 40. Feud . Aids , iii . 510 . 


 
 
 119 , 142-3 . 


 18. Ibid . 223 . 21. Cal . Pat . R. 132-4 , 160. 22 . R. 516. 24. Abbrev . Placit . 176 . i . 452b , 522b , 537. 27. Cal . Inquis . ii . 283 . Placit . 243b . 30. Feud . Aids , iii . 401. 31 . Inquis . vi . 331 , 335. 33. Cal . Pat . R. 200 . Close R. 447 · 36. Cal . Pat . R. 68. 37. Cal . Inquis . viii . 104. 39. Cal . Fine R. v . 117 . 


 
 
 3. R. Cur . 6. Feet 


 
 
 Ibid . 315b . 12. Feet of F. 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 444] ===
 
 
 428 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 XLII . 


 In Norfolk William de Warenne had in 1086 in Egmere car . appraised in Barsham ; in Welborne 1 car . and 40 acres . 


 The king had in Quarles , a berewick of Wilton , car . ; in Egmere , another berewick , car . 


 There is a slight possibility of these tenements having been held of the earl of Warenne by Bartholomew de Crec , lord of North Creake , who in 1166 held 8 fees of earl Roger Bigod.¹ In 1175 he owed 20 marks for the right of ' Sudflet , ' Norf . He was deceased in 1189 , having failed to obtain the right licet multum institisset . ' ³ He appears to have had an illegitimate son Bartholomew , born of the lady who married Richard de Cadewell ( of Cadwell in Tathwell , Lincs . ) several months after her marriage ; which Bartholomew endeavoured in 1220 to make himself heir of Richard , to the dis advantage of Osbert son of the said Richard , the true heir . The utility of the plea lies in the statement by Osbert that the said Bartholomew was born in Suffolk and nourished in the house of Robert de Crek , where he was recognized as Robert's brother ; Bartholomew admitted that Robert was his elder brother.4 


 
 
 ، 


 
 
 Robert de Crec , son and heir of Bartholomew , married before 1199 Agnes daughter and heir of William de Glanvill , son of Hervey de Glanvill . In that year they were impleaded by Gundreda the countess , late wife of Roger de Glanvill , whom she had married after the decease of Hugh le Bigod , earl of Norfolk , circa 1175 , for dower in Middleton , Yoxford and Bacton , Suff . , belonging to the Glanvill inheritance . By the said Agnes , Robert had issue Bartholomew , his son and heir , and two daughters , Margaret , who married John de Thorpe , and Isabel , who married Thomas de Valoignes . " In 1203-4 Robert de Glanvill seems to have passed to them land in Middleton and Yoxford , and 2 years later Bartholomew de Glanvill passed to them the land of Combs , Suff . ” In 1212 Robert de Crec held Combs , Suff . , of the king at fee farm for 22 marks and 25s . scutage , which he had once held of Rolland Avenel.8 


 
 
 Before 1225 Robert granted to his son Bartholomew all the lands of the inheritance of his late mother Agnes , formerly Robert's wife , including the advowson of the church of Helmingham , Norf.9 In 1229 Joan prioress of Campsey released to Bartholomew and his heirs the manor of Helmingham.10 Robert died in 1232 , when the sheriff of Norfolk was directed to assign to Richemay late wife of Robert de Crec 10 librates of land for her support until Bartholo mew son and heir of Robert returned from Ireland , where he was in the service of the countess of Pembroke , ¹¹ and assigned dower to her.12 She was mother of Peter de Crec , who recovered from his half - brother Bartholomew in 1233 land in North Creake which Peter had when aged 7 of his father's gift.13 He seems to have been father of John son of Peter de Crek of Wiggenhall , living in 1254.14 Bartholomew was one of the 3 coheirs of Nesta de Cokefeld 15 ( see n . 13 ) . He married before 1235 Margery daughter and heir of Geoffrey de Aunus alias Danys of Hillington by Castle Rising , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 445] ===
 
 
 EGMERE , WELBORNE 429 


 
 
 who held of the fee of Warenne ( n . 24 ) and of that of Tateshale.16 Margery made her will in 1282 , probably the year of her death . ( See Chester , n . 104. ) 


 
 
 In 1242-3 Bartholomew held the vill of Combs at fee farm of the king for 22 marks rent and a yearly scutage of 30s.17 He was forbidden in 1251 to sell any lands that he held of the king to religious men.18 He died in 1252 and in the ensuing year a fine was levied between his relict Margery and James de Crek of land in Middleton , Yoxford and Wilby.19 In 1256 the same James had respite of knighthood for 3 years and exemption for life from being put on assizes and the like . 20 Margery relict of Bartholomew , the foundress of the priory of Flixton , in 1260 passed the manor of Flixton with the advowson of the church to Eleanor prioress of Flixton.21 In 1286 the then prioress held the manor by Margery's gift in alms.22 


 
 
 James de Crek was named in the North Erpingham hundred rolls of 1275 ; Margery de Crek had view of frankpledge in Funden hall and Ashwellthorpe , free warren in North Creake and free fish ing in Waveney.23 În 1280 John de Crek had a grant of market . In and fair at his manor of North Creake , and in 1285 , as John son of Bartholomew de Crek , a grant of free warren in North Creake and Fundenhall , Norf . , Combs and Helmingham , Suff.24 It is possible that his mother was during her lifetime in possession of the Crek estates by a joint feoffment to her and her husband . In 1286 , by agreement made between Alice daughter of William de Pyrrow and John de Crek , the said Alice released to John and his heirs two large estates in Yoxford ( Ickesford ) , Burgh and Grundis burgh of which William de Pyrho died seised in or before 1227 , when his heir was a minor , 25 and a third estate in Ditchingham , Norf.26 In the same year James de Crek , in defending his claim to liberties in Yoxford , stated that he only held these by the courtesy of England of the inheritance of William de Crek his son , who stated that he and his ancestors had those liberties by reason of one William de Pyrrho , his ancestor , who came at the conquest of England.2 


 
 
 Returning to the issue of Bartholomew and Margery de Crek , in 1253 the said Margery and Robert her eldest son made a grant of a tenement in Shipdham.28 Besides Robert , they had issue Geoffrey , who had a grant of free warren in Helmingham in 1267,29 and John ; all died without issue , the last - named in 1289 , having in 1284 , after the death of Margery his mother , acquired the manor of Combs , Suffolk.30 His heir was his only sister Sarah , then wife of Roger son of Peter son of Roger son of Osbert , usually named Roger Fitz - Osbert of Somerleyton , Suff . , and in 1289 they had livery of the lands of John de Crek , Sarah's brother.31 Roger son of Osbert was a crown official in Norfolk in the early part of the reign of Henry III . In 1251 Peter his son was exempted from being placed on assizes etc.32 


 
 
 Roger Fitz - Osbert died in 1306 holding the Crec inheritance by the courtesy of England . His own heirs were his sister , Isabel de Walpole , late the wife of Walter Gernegan , and John de Noyon , son 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 446] ===
 
 
 430 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 of Alice , another sister , by her husband Ralph de Noyon.33 At Roger's death the Crek inheritance 34 was divided between the heirs - at - law of Sarah his wife , viz . John de Thorpe , son of Robert son of John de Thorpe by his wife Margaret , sister of Bartholomew de Crec ; and Edmund de Pakenham and Rose his wife , and Robert de Ufford ( father of Robert de Ufford , created earl of Suffolk in 1337 ) and Cecily his wife , which Rose and Cecily were the daughters and coheirs of Robert de Valoignes of Hickling , Norfolk , son of Robert son of Thomas de Valoignes 35 by Mabel his wife , another sister of Bartholomew de Crec.36 Three other sisters of Bartholomew , Agnes , Dionisia , and Joan ( ? prioress of Campsey ) , had died without issue . A pedigree of the heirs general of Crec will be found in The Genealogist , N.S. x . 135 . 


 In 1199 Martin de Quarueles and Stephen son of Bartholomew de Walsingham were tenants of messuages in Lynn , and in the ensuing year the sheriff of Norfolk was to make partition between them of the land and rent in Burnhamthorpe late of Hawise de Burnham , saving the life estate of the said Hawise.3 37 This appears to indicate that lands in Egmere and Quarles held by the descend ants of Martin and Stephen were derived from one of the lords of Burnham . 


 
 
 In 1242-3 Robert son of Ralph held fee in Welbourne and Egmere of the fee of the earl Warenne.38 According to Parkin the tenants of Robert son of Ralph de Quarles held fee in Quarles of the lord of North Crek , who held of earl Bigod.39 


 2 


 
 
 In 1251 Robert de Mares had a grant of free warren in Egmere.40 In 1272 James de Thorpe had respite for one year from making himself a knight.41 In 1275 he was said to have withdrawn aid from Egmere.42 He had the assize of bread and beer in Grimston.43 In 1280 James de Thorpe of Welborne conveyed by fine to Sir Robert de Hengham the manor of Welborne with land in Bacons thorpe in trust ( for Richard de Walsingham ? ) . 44 


 In 1302-3 the tenants of the land of Robert son of Ralph de Quarles held fee in Quarles of Roger Fitz - Osbert and he of the earl of Warenne ; Richard de Walsingham fee in Egmere of the same ; and Robert de Hengham fee in Welborne of the same . 45 


 In 1324 Robert de Bakounesthorp ( see no . 5 ) held fee in Yelverton and Welbourne , and Richard de Walsingham fee in Egmere , of Aymer de Valence.46 Elsewhere the fee is described as fee in Welborne ( Wilburgham ' ) , Egmere and elsewhere , held by Edmund de Bakenesthorpe and his parceners.47 In 1325 these tenements were assigned to the pourparty of Elizabeth Comyn , Aymer's kinswoman and coheiress.48 


 
 
 1 


 2 


 
 
 1. Red Bk . 395 . 


 2. Pipe R. 21 Hen . II , 125 . 4. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 303. 5. R. Cur . Reg . iii . 83 ; pass . 6. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 1378. 7. Feet of 8. Bk . of Fees , 135. 9. Bracton , op . cit . n . 724 . 13 Hen . III . 11. Cal . Pat . R. 2. 12. Close R. 40 . 


 
 
 4 4 


 
 
 3. Ibid . 1 Ric . 41 . also vols . i and ii . F. Suff . 5-7 John . 10. Feet of F. Suff . 13. Bracton , op . cit . 


 n . 754. 14. Excerpt . Fin . ii . 194. 15. Abbrev . Placit . 237. Cf. Feet of F. Suff . 26 Hen . III ; Close R. 1248 , pp . 106 , 120. 16. Close R. 1235 , PP . 43 , 240 ; Cal . Inquis . ii . 25. 17. Testa , 283 . 18. Close R. 401 . of F. Suff . 37 Hen . III , 42 Hen . III . 20. Cal . Pat . R. 474-5 . 


 19. Feet 21. Feet 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 447] ===
 
 
 HAUTBOIS 43I 


 
 
 of F. Suff . 44 Hen . III . 


 23. R. Hund . 


 22. Placit . de quo war . 730b . i . 471 , 521 ff . 24. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 247 , 307. 25. Pat . R. 1227 , p . 155 . 


 26. Abbrev . Placit . 2116 . 


 32. Cal . Pat . 1251 , p . 112 . 


 27. Placit . de quo war . 722 . 28. Cal . of Bodl . Chs . 214. 29. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 77. 30. Ibid . 197 . 31. Ibid . 257 ; Cal . Inquis . ii . 441 . 33. Ibid . iv . 266 ; Abbrev . Placit . 297b . 34. The partition was recorded with great minuteness of detail . It occupies 9 pages of the Cal . of Close R. 1306 , 113 , PP . 462–70 . 35. Cf. R. L. Claus . i . 334 et pass . 36. Cal . Inquis . iv . 266 ; The Genealo gist , N.S. x . 135. 37. Cur . Reg . R. iii . 81 , 187 , 445 . 38. Testa , 287 . 39. Hist . of Norf . v . 815 . 40. Cal . Chart . i . 354 . 41. Cal . Pat . 633 42. R. Hund . i . 526b . 43. Ibid . 5376. 44. Norf . Feet of F. 8 Edw . I , 46. Cal . Inquis . vi . 331. 47. Ibid . 


 n . 202 . 


 45. Feud . Aids , iii . 421 , 445 . 48. Cal . Close R. 273 . 


 335 . 


 
 
 XLIII . 


 In Norfolk William de Warenne in 1086 had in Hautbois ( Hobuist ' ) 160 acres belonging to Hoveton , which earl Ralph gave to St. Benet with his wife ; there also 2 sochmen of St. Benet had 165 acres ; this was delivered for I car . of land ; in Tuttington ( Tatituna ' ) 16 acres . 


 According to Blomefield the Hautbois family descended from Herman , dapifer of St. Benet's , Hulme , who had sons Adam , William , and Richer.¹ William is said to have had a son Peter . 


 
 
 Peter de Hautbois I was said to have bequeathed on his death bed to St. Mary's , Rudham , the churches of Hautbois ( Hobwise ) and Tuttington , saving the right of his chapel of Hautbois , his gift also comprising tithes of the mill of Pikenhill ' and certain goods ; in 1200 Peter de Hautbois II , son of the testator , denied the validity of the gifts alleged to have been made . Afterwards the prior of Rudham and the said Peter made an agreement , whereby Peter granted to the prior of St. Mary's , Rudham , the church of Hautbois ; whereupon the prior released to Peter all right in the church of Tuttington , tithes of the rent of Peter's men , of the mill of Pikenhill , of the fish of the mill , hay and other things which the prior had claimed under the charter of Peter's father . In 1199 the grand assize touching the advowson of the church of Erpingham , Norf . , between Peter de Hautbois and Robert de Herpingham was respited during Peter's absence beyond seas in the king's service ; in 1200 the jurors , except Humphrey de Milleres , found in favour of Robert . The matter was settled by an agreement that each party should have a mediety of the 


 church.5 


 
 
 In 1213 Peter de Hauboys complained of disturbance of his seisin of lands in Thurgarton , Antingham and Holme , but this was due to the keeper whom king John had placed in the abbey of Holme , as in all houses of religion in England.6 


 
 
 In the Miliers part of Hautbois Roger son of Reiner de Holbosia received land in Lindle , Thomas de Hobboss ' being a witness , in the time of abbot Reginald ( 1214-29 ) . " 


 
 
 About 1240 Sir Peter de Hauboys founded a hospital for the poor at the head of the causeway of Great Hautbois ; to some of his deeds Thomas de Hauboys and Richard his son were witnesses . & 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 448] ===
 
 
 432 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 In 1242-3 Peter de Auboys held fee in Hautbois and Tuttington of the fee of the earl of Warenne , and in 1243 Peter son and heir of Peter de Alto Bosco obtained restoration of the lands his father had held in Hautbois of the son and heir of William late earl Warenne , then in the king's custody.10 The younger Peter gave to St. Benet's , Hulme , a fishery in Little Hautbois , the charter being witnessed by John de Hauboys , another son of Sir Peter.11 Within the period 1244-1248 Peter de Hautbois gave to Lewes priory land in Herst held for fee which he had inherited from William his brother , together with the dower of Helewise relict of the same William.12 ( See n . 4. ) In 1247-8 two Jews quitclaimed to the abbot of Hulme all right in the land of Peter de Hautbois.13 Peter son of Peter de Hautbois gave to Nicholas de Turri land in Calthorpe , Norf . 14 He also sold to Walter de Caletorp in fee in 1247 a messuage in Calthorpe which Peter his father had held , and land near the dower land of Matilda late wife of the said Peter.15 Parkin cites evidence to show that Peter de Hautbois was indebted to Jewry.15 In 1249-50 Peter son of Peter de Hautbois passed by fine to Thomas de Thurkelby land in Tuttington , to which Geoffrey de Crakeford and Robert de Harling put in their claims.16 


 
 
 4 


 
 
 9 


 
 
 The next step in the descent of this holding is obscure . Various members of the family are mentioned in the period 1250-1270 . Isabel widow of Roger son of Roger de Hauboys released to St. Benet , Hulme , all her right to land in Scottow ; 17 Avice ( or Alice ) widow of Thomas son of Ralph de Hauboys gave the monks a quitclaim as to Little Hautbois ; 18 Richard de Hauboys attested local deeds ; 19 and Margery , Matilda , and Eufrasia , daughters of Richard son of Thomas de Hauboys , surrendered to the abbey their tenements in Calthorp , Erpingham , Tuttington and Thur garton.20 From the following details there appears to have been a division between these three sisters . 


 
 
 In 1280 Eufrasia , probably the above - named Eufrasia , as wife of Peter de Braunford , by her husband impleaded Robert Baynard and others for a messuage in Great Hautbois.21 In 1285 Robert Baynard and William Baynard complained that in a recent suit against the said Robert brought by Bartholomew de Redham , who recovered seisin of 10 messuages 15 villeins and a free fishery in Great Hautbois and 3 messuages in Scottow , they had been wrongfully disseised.22 Robert Baynard died in 1299,23 and in the ensuing year Robert his son complained that the bailiffs of queen Eleanor , the king's late consort , had occupied against Robert Baynard his father , beyond certain lands recovered by Bartholo mew de Redham in Great Hautbois , 10 messuages ( etc. as above ) in Hautbois and Scottow ; whereupon a commission to inquire was issued , which returned that certain tenements had been appropri ated as alleged and an order was made for restitution.24 In 1301 Bartholomew de Redham obtained restitution of a messuage and 150 acres of land in Great Hautbois which had been wrongfully appropriated as above.25 


 In 1302 William de Neuton and Margaret his wife passed by 


 
 
 si 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 449] ===
 
 
 HAUTBOIS - BLO ' NORTON 433 


 
 
 fine to Robert Baynard a tenement in Great Hautbois , to which John Peverel and Joan his wife and Thomas de Framlingham and Agnes his wife put in their claims.26 In 1302-3 Robert Baynard , with the said John and Thomas his tenants in Hautbois and with John de Suthmere his tenant in Tuttington , held in those places 


 fee of the earl of Warenne.27 In 1312 the same Robert had licence to crenellate his mansion house of Great Hautbois , 28 and at this time he appears to have acquired from Thomas de Framelingham and John Peverel and their respective wives their interest in the manor.29 


 In 1324 Robert Baynard , knt . , held of Aymer de Valence fee in Hautbois , Tuttington , Calthorpe and Beeston , 30 which was assigned in the following year to the pourparty of Elizabeth Comyn.31 Robert died in 1330 holding the manor of Hautbois jointly with Matilda his wife of John de Warenne , earl of Surrey , as of his manor of Castleacre for fee ; the manors of Wheatacre and Chidgrave ( which his father had held in 1275 ) ; Thomas his son was aged 30 years and had married Lucy daughter of Roger atte Asshe , who had brought him several manors in Norfolk in marriage.32 


 
 
 In 1332 Thomas Baynard alienated to Thomas Roscelyn , knt . , the manors of Hautbois and Wheatacre , saving the dower of Matilda late wife of Robert Baynard.33 In 1346 the same Matilda held fee in Hautbois and Tuttington of the earl of Warenne.34 She died in 1349. 35 


 
 
 1 


 3 


 
 
 They occur 1101-1140 . 


 2. Cur . Reg . R. 4. R. Cur . Reg . i . 390 ; Abbrev . Placit . Ibid . 91. Cf. R. de Fin . 292. 7. Galba 9. Testa , 287. 10. Excerpt . Fin . i . 403 . 


 1. Chartul . Galba E. ii . f . 54 , 55 . iii . 352 . 3. Abbrev . Placit . 27 . 30b . 5. Galba E. ii . f . 114d . 6 . E. ii . f . 86d . 8. Ibid . f . 95d , 96 . 11. Galba E. ii . f . 100. John was parson of Tuttington ; ibid . f . 95d . 12. Cat . of Anct . D. ii . A. 3032 ; iv . A. 7210. 13. Galba E. ii . f . 115d , 116 . 14. Cat . of Anct . D. i . C. 816. 15. Ibid . vi . C. 6290 , 6404. 16. Feet of F. Norf . 34 Hen . III . 17. Galba E. ii . f . 107 , 122d . 18. Ibid . f . 127 , 136d . 19. Ibid . f . 137 . Pat . R. 207 . 23. Cal . Fine R. i . 415 . 425-6 ; 1303 , p . 39. 26. Feet of F. iii . 389 . 28. Cal . Pat . R. 492 . 30. Cal . Inquis . vi . 331 , 335. 31. Cal . Close R. 273 . vii . 211 . 33. Cal . of Bodl . Chs . 226-7 . 34. Feud . Aids , iii . 487 . Inquis . ix . 145 , 181 . 


 20. Ibid . f . 132 . 


 21. Cal . Close R. 112 . 24. Cal . Close R. 415-6 . Norf . 30 Edw . I. 


 22. Cal . 25. Ibid . 27. Feud . Aids , 


 29. Feet of F. Norf . 


 5 and 7 Edw . II . 32. Cal . Inquis . 35. Cal . 


 
 
 XLIV . 


 In Norfolk in 1086 William de Warenne had in ( Blo ' ) Norton I car . , which Fulcher held of him . 


 ' 


 In 1228 Ralph son of William de Saxham was impleaded by Alice his mother for her dower in Selventham ' ( ? Thelnetham ) , Suff.¹ In 1242-3 Ralph son of William de Saxham and Ralph de Snora ( son of Ralph ) held fee in Norton of the fee of the earl of Warenne.2 


 
 
 Ralph de Saxham's tenement was acquired by the family of Brom , who held lands on the Arundel fee in Blo ' Norton ( Arundel n . 45 ) . In 1302 Roger de Brom held of the heirs of Arundel of 


 III . 


 2 F 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 450] ===
 
 
 434 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 2 


 the pourparty of Roger de Sumery fee in Norton of the earl of Warenne.3 The same Roger at his death in 1303 held fee here of the honor of Buckenham and fee of the earl of Surrey ; William his son was aged 9 years , and held the tenements in 1316 with Pernel his mother.5 


 4 


 
 
 1 


 4 


 
 
 The other moiety of this tenement continued in the family of La Snore . In 1267 John de La Snore had letters of protection . for one year , so that if the king should have given his lands the said John would stand to the award of Kenilworth . In 1302-3 William de La Snore held fee in Norton of the earl of Warenne and in 1316 he was one of the lords of Fordham , Norf . " 


 6 


 4 


 4 


 1 


 4 


 In 1324 Petronilla de Brom held fee in Blo ' Norton and William de Blonorton fee there of Aymer de Valence , 8 elsewhere described asfee held by the heirs of Brom and fee held by William de Norton.9 In 1326 the service of these two persons was assigned to the pourparty of David earl of Athol and Joan his wife , 10 and they held the same at the earl's death in 1327.11 


 4 


 
 
 1. Excerpt . Fin . i . 177. 2. Testa , 287 . 3. Feud . Aids , iii . 441 . 4. Cal . Inquis . iv . 157. 5. Feud . Aids , iii . 6. Cal . Pat . R. 43. 7. Feud . Aids , iii . 441 , 450. 8. Cal . Inquis . vi . 331 . Close R. 447. 11. Cal . Inquis . vi . 482 . 


 9. Ibid . 335 . 


 10. Cal . 


 
 
 XLV . 


 In Freebridge hundred Berner the arblaster in 1086 held of the king in Grimston I carucate , in Congham 60 acres . 


 William de Warenne had in Grimston I car . 


 The lands above described were given in the presence of Henry II by Hamelin earl of Warenne to Reiner son of Nicholas de Wacstonesham in exchange for land which the said Nicholas had held of the ancestors of the countess Isabel , and after of Hamelin earl of Warenne and the said countess his wife , in Gimingham and the soc , and Reiner later held , as of the land late his father's , after his father's time of earl Hamelin ; except the land of Barton , which Reiner's father held and which had remained to Reiner and his heirs , to be held of earl Hamelin . In 1199 the king confirmed the tenements named in the above recital to Richard de Belhus , to whom Reiner de Wacstonesham was maternal uncle , with the service of certain tenants ( named ) in Grimston and Congham , together with the land in Barton , to be held for fee.¹ As the family of Belhus were long established at North Tuddenham it is possible that the land in Grimston and Congham was alienated prior to the year 1242 . 


 + 


 Richard de Belhus , who had land in Sledmere , Yorks . , returned to allegiance in 1217.2 In 1228 he was pardoned amercements in respect of lands in Essex and Norfolk . Richard son of Robert de Belhus alienated to Paulin Peyvre and Joan his wife before 1251 a mill in Belhouse in North Tuddenham , Norf . Another Richard de Belhus in 1275 held land in Budney ( n . 5 ) by grant from William de Gynay.5 


 In 1288 Nicholas son of William son of Reiner passed by fine 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 451] ===
 
 
 GRIMSTON , CONGHAM 435 


 
 
 to Thomas de Weylaund the service of 6 tenants ( named ) in Grimston.6 ( See Arundel n . 49. ) 


 Gilbert de St. Clare was a tenant in 1166 of the abbot of St. Edmund's . Another Gilbert , of Norfolk and Suffolk , returned to allegiance in 1217.8 Gerbert de St. Clare occurs in a Suffolk plea in 1231.9 In 1242-3 he held fee in Grimston of the earl Warenne's fee.10 He was father of John de St. Clare , who died in 1252 , leaving John his son and heir , aged 19.11 The St. Clares long continued to hold land here . In 1267 John de St. Clare was pardoned for his part in the late disturbances on condition he stood to the award of Kenilworth.12 


 
 
 In 1292 a rent of 100s . in Congham , Gayton and Grimston lately held by Thomas de Weylaund , who for felony abjured the realm , was in the king's hands for a year and a day ; he held the rent of Nicholas son of Reiner , whose kinsman and heir was John de Beaumont.13 In 1297 Beaumont had livery of the said rent.14 


 1 


 
 
 In 1302 John de St. Clare ( ' le Sencler ' ) held fee in Grimston of William de Huntingfeld.15 It is not certain that the St. Clares holding in Grimston was the same as that which Belhus held . The former may have been a member of the Gressenhall fee ( n . 25 ) . 


 Although the descent of the manor of Upton in Walsham hundred has no relation to this fee , it is interesting to note that Ranulf de Glanvill gave the manor to Reiner le Sireve , who gave it to Nicholas le Buteler the elder in marriage with his sister , and in 1275 Thomas Roscelin and Catherine his wife held it in right of Catherine , who was daughter and heir of the said Nicholas.16 Reiner de Waxtonesham was for many years deputy sheriff for Ranulf de Glanvill . In December 1316 Robert de Reppes was pardoned for acquiring in fee without licence from John de Warenne , earl of Surrey , the manor of Hillington and £ 10 2s . 93d . of rent in Grimston , Congham , Gayton and Stibbard , with the advowson of the church of Stibbard.17 In 1324 Robert de Reppes held of Aymer de Valence fee in Grimston , Congham and Gayton , 1414 Norf.18 After the death of David earl of Athol in 1327 , to whose pourparty , in right of Joan his wife , the service of this tenement had been assigned , Robert de Reppes held fee in the 3 places named of the king in chief and not of the said earl.19 


 
 
 4 


 In 1346 Robert de Morlee held fee in Grimston of the heirs of Huntingfeld which John de St. Clare formerly held.20 At his death in 1360 the same Robert held the manor of Grimston of the heirs of Richard Foliot , namely John Camoys , knt . , aged 40 , and Hugh de Hastinges , knt . , aged 25 , as of the manor of Gressenhall ( n . 25 ) for fee.21 


 
 
 1. R. Chart . 24 . 


 2. R. Lit. Claus . i . 333b - 4 . 3. Close R. 34 , 148 . 4. Ibid . 1251 , P. 463. 5. R. Hund . i . 5176. 6. Feet of F. Norf . , 16 Edw . I. 7. Red Bk . 393. 8. R. L. Claus . i . 376b . 9. Pat . R. 446. 10. Testa , 


 12. Cal . Pat . R. 47 


 15. Feud . Aids , 18. Cal . Inquis . 522. 21. Cal . 


 
 
 2876. 11. Cal . Inquis . i . 62 ; Cal . Pat . 1256 , p . 469 . 


 13. Cal . Misc . Ing . i . 446 , 463 . 


 iii . 408 . 16. R. Hund . i . 504 . vi . 331 . 19. Ibid . vi . 483 . Inquis . x . 502 . 


 14. Cal . Close R. 38 . 17. Cal . Pat . 610 . 20. Feud . Aids , iii . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 452] ===
 
 
 436 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 XLVI . 


 
 
 This tenement ( in Foulsham , etc. ) appears to have been an escheat of the Normans ' land of the honor of Giffard ( nn . 46–7 ) . 


 The returns for Eynesford hundred in 1212 state that the earl of Warenne held of the king II librates of land in Foulsham ( Falesh ' ) in exchange for his land beyond seas by the gift of king Richard.1 Gilbert de Sanes , nephew of Henry de Bernevall , was an official of king John.2 In 1229 the king pardoned him 64s . of a prest made to him in Wales in John's reign.3 In 1231 Aubrey son and heir of Gilbert de Sanes was to be delivered to William Longespée , to whom his wardship belonged . * 


 It was presented in 1244 that in 1236 earl William de Warenne gave to Geoffrey de Sane 10 librates of rent in the vills of Guist , Themelthorpe , Bintree , Foulsham , Wood Norton , Guestwick , Thurning , Wood Dalling , Sparham , Weston and Felthorpe.5 In five of the places here named there were lands belonging to the honor of Giffard . 


 
 
 2 


 In 1242-3 John de Sanes held fee in Guist of the earl of Warenne's fee , and in 1244 he held 10 librates of land in Themel thorpe and Guist . " In the following year he was appointed to keep Stamford Fair as in the time of William late earl of Warenne . 


 8 


 
 
 In 1248 the king granted to Alice , nurse of Edward his son , in fee , the land late of John de Sanes , a Norman , in Themelthorpe and Guist , as an escheat of the Normans . For other references to this lady see Peverel , n . 25. In 1259 a fine was levied between William son of William ( Gerberge ) of Great Yarmouth ( ' Jernemue ' ) and John de Litton and Alice his wife of lands in Themelthorpe , Guist , Guestwick , Foulsham , Wood Norton and Sparham.10 


 In 1269 the king confirmed a charter of John de Luton and Alice his wife granting to William son and heir of William Gereberge of Great Yarmouth the land which they had of the king's gift in Themelthorpe , Guist , Foulsham , Norton , Guestwick and Sparham , which John de Sanes , a Norman , sometime held.11 


 
 
 In 1286 Thomas Gerberge put in his claim in a fine levied between William Gerberge and Joan his wife and Richard Gerberge of Yarmouth.12 In 1302-3 Thomas Gerberge held fee in Wood Norton , Guist and Themelthorpe of the earl Warenne.13 


 
 
 In 1303 Joan daughter of Sir Thomas Gerberg knt . , widow , quitclaimed to her father her right in fro rent which Sir Walter de Caltorp was bound to render yearly to Sir Thomas for tenements held of Sir Thomas in the vills of Seething , Mundham and six others ; for this her father gave her 5 marks rent for life in his manors of Thorlee ' and Wood Norton , Norf.14 In 1316 John Gerberge was one of the lords of Foulsham and Themelthorpe , 15 and in 1324 he held fee of Aymer de Valence in Guist , Themel thorpe , Sparham and Felthorpe , 16 his service being assigned in 1326 to the pourparty of David earl of Athol and Joan his wife.17 


 ، 


 
 
 1. Bk . of Fees , 133. 2. R. Lit. Claus . i . 43 , 370b . 4. Ibid . 544. 5. Cal . Inquis . i . 8. 6. Testa , 287 . 


 
 
 7 . 


 
 
 3. Close R. 259 . Bk . of Fees , 1151 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 453] ===
 
 
 CARLTON , WILLINGHAM - ITTERINGHAM 437 


 
 
 8. Cal . Pat . R. 449 . 


 9. Cal . Chart . i . 336 . 12. Ibid . p . 132 . 


 10. Norf . Feet of F. p . 96 . 13. Feud . Aids , iii . 413 . 


 11. Cal . Chart . R. ii . 123 . 14. Cat . of Anct . D. vi . C.5227 . 15. Feud . Aids , iii . 465. 16. Cal . Inquis . vi . 331 , 335 . 17. Cal . Close R. 447 . 


 
 
 XLVII . 


 In Cambridgeshire William de Warenne had in Carlton ( and Willingham ) one virgate and 2 hides 7 a . , which Walter de Grantcurt held of him ; and 4 hides , which the abbot of Cluny similarly held . 


 The charter of William de Warenne II says that at the dedica tion of Lewes ( c . 1108 ) Walter de Grancurt offered the church of Willingham ( with 1 v . ) and 2 h . 7 a . there and churches of Brunham and Harpley ( see 23 ) . 


 Before 1121 Fredebert gave 40 a . of land in Willingham and Ralph de Grancurt gave the church of Willingham , with I virg . and 2 hides 7 acres of land , and Richard son of Hardwin de Scalers gave the church of Carlton , Cambs . , to the monks of Lewes.1 These were confirmed by Archbishop Ralph.2 Other references to the Grancurts will be found at no . 23. In 1236-38 the prior of Lewes held 6 hides in Carlton and Willingham.3 


 As will be seen below , Roger de Wolterton was said to hold fee in 1324 in Weston Colville and Carlton , Cambs . , but this was apparently an error . 


 
 
 1. Above , p . 312 ; Round , Cal . of Docs . , France , 512. 2. Anct . Charters ( Pipe R. Soc . ) , 13. 3. Lib . de Bernewelle , 257 . 


 
 
 XLVII ( 1 ) 


 In Norfolk William de Warenne had in 1086 in Itteringham 15 acres ; in Wolterton 16 acres which Turold held of him . 


 
 
 4 


 Turold de Gimingham gave the church of Witton ( ? ) to Castle acre.¹ Sometime after 1148 William de Walton ( ? Wltreton ) gave to lady Ela de Warenne 100s . for relief and she gave it to the earl Warenne.2 In 1200 Hamelin earl of Warenne was claiming a tenement in Wolterton against Robert son of Roger and Peter de Eggesfeld.³ In 1209 Walter de Wolterton and Christiana his wife held land in Costessey of the fee of Brittany . In 1217 Walter returned to allegiance and regained his land in Norfolk and Suffolk.5 In 1227 a jury found that Walter father of William de Wulterton 8 days before his death gave a messuage in Eding thorpe , Norf . , to his sister Margery ; judgment was for William , who claimed the tenement.6 In 1242-3 Roger de Wlterton held 1 fee in Wolterton and fee in Ittringham and Stutevill ( sic ) of the fee of the earl of Warenne . " 


 D 


 
 
 In 1276 Roger de Wolterton was one of the grand assize in a plea touching the rectory of Banham . In 1302-3 Roger de Wolterton held fee in Wolterton of the earl of Warenne , ⁹ and in 1324 he held the same of Aymer de Valence , 1º elsewhere stated to be in Weston Colevill and Carlton , Cambs . , 11 but apparently 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 454] ===
 
 
 438 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 in error , although by that description in 1326 Roger de Wolterton's service was assigned to the pourparty of David earl of Athol and Joan his wife.12 


 
 
 1. Harl . MS . 2110 , f . 1d . 2. Red Bk . , Introduct . p . 279. 3. R. Cur . Reg . iii . 261-2 . 4. Abbrev . Placit . 63b . 5. R. L. Claus . i . 331. 6. Bracton's Note - Bk . n . 1818. 7. Testa , 287. 8. Abbrev . Placit . 267b . 9. Feud . Aids , iii . 389. 10. Cal . Inquis . vi . 335 . 11. Ibid . 331. 12. Cal . Close R. 


 447 . 


 
 
 XLVIII . 


 In Norfolk in 1086 Rardulf ( i.e. Ralph de Chesney ) held of William de Warenne in Stinton ( in Sall ) 3 car . and the sochmen had 80 acres . 


 4 


 This was a member of the fee described at the Ist section and was held of the family of Say by the Cleres . In 1185 Ralph de Clere owed £ 20 for a recognition of I knight's fee in Stinton against Ralph brother of Roger de Clere ; ¹ but he never obtained it.² In 1197 Warin de Saulle , by his sons Thomas and Matthew , demised to the chaplain of Sall for life a messuage in Sall and Stinton.3 In 1243 inquiry was to be made by the sheriff of Norfolk as to those who took in the house of Roger de Clere at Stinton the chattels of John de St. Denis while he was in prison . These are the only early references to Stinton , but the first and third clearly point to Stinton having been at a later date the mari tagium of Agatha daughter and heir of Roger de Clere , to whom some reference has been made at n . 12. By Agatha's marriage to William le Rus of Suffolk this estate descended through their daughter and heir Alice to Richard de Briouze or Braiose , whose descendants assigned Stinton as dower of their wives , a policy frequently employed in mediæval times in regard to estates acquired in marriage . 


 
 
 Some notice may be taken of the family of Rus ( Ruffus ) . Prior to the summer of 1125 Stephen count of Mortain , with the consent of Henry his uncle and for 20 marks and a mewed hawk , granted to Ernald le Rus , son of Roger le Rus , his manor of Strad brook , Suff . , being of the honor of Eye , with liberties and the advowson of the church and that of Wingfield , to hold for a fee farm of £ 28.5 The grant purports to have been confirmed by Henry I , but his charter is probably a forgery.6 


 8 


 In 1130 Ernald son of Roger was in receipt of a yearly fee or livery of 60s . at the hands of the farmers of Norfolk and Suffolk . " In 1159 Ernald le Rus , son of the above , was in receipt of the same fee , but not afterwards . He was amerced 60s . that year for recreancy . In 1165 , among the knights of the honor of Lancaster who were pardoned scutage because they had been in the army ( of Wales ) with the king , earl Hugh Bigod obtained remission of 40s . for Ernald le Rus . " This was , as will be seen later , in respect of 3 fees in Whitlingham , Clopton , Hasketon and Akenham , Suff . In 1166 Ernald held 1 fee of Roger de Raimes.¹º This also was in Akenham , where in 1214-15 Arnald le Rus III was tenant of 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 455] ===
 
 
 STINTON 439 


 
 
 earl Roger Bigod , the mesne tenant.¹¹ It was probably this Ernald who founded the priory of Black Canons at Woodbridge , Suff.12 


 In 1199 Ernald son of Ernald le Rus proffered 10 marks to have the manor of Stradbrook at farm for £ 28 per annum , to hold as beneficially as Arnold ' his grandfather held it temp . Henry I ; he also proffered 15 marks for a grant of a market at Whitlingham.13 In the ensuing year king John confirmed the grant of Stradbrook.14 


 In 1216 Hugh le Rus gave £ 100 to obtain the king's good will and delivered Isabel his daughter and Thomas his nephew as hostages , whereupon he had writs of reseisin to the sheriffs of Norfolk , Suffolk and Essex , the constable of Eye being specially directed to restore his goods and chattels.15 On Henry's accession he had the like writ , Hugh Bigod being mainpernor that Hugh would give his charter of fidelity.16 In 1222 the king pardoned him 50 marks of the fine of £ 100 made in 1216.17 In 1225 he was appointed sheriff of Norfolk and Suffolk , in which office he continued until 1227 ; he was also an assessor of the fifteenth in those counties and frequently acted as a special justice.18 In 1227 he was made . warden of the sea - coast from Orewell to Lynn , and in that year was guardian of the land and heir of William de Pyrho , 19 and had a grant , as Hugh le Rus son of Ernald le Rus , of weekly markets at his manors of Stradbrook and Woodbridge.20 Three years later he died , and in 1231 , when the king complained of the injury done by the prior of Woodbridge's market to that of Ipswich , the prior vouched to warranty Hugh's son Hugh , who was then under age and in ward of the bishop of Norwich.21 Hugh II died in 1232 , when earl William de Warenne had custody of the land and heir of the elder Hugh.22 


 26 


 In 1234 William le Rus , probably younger brother of Hugh II , made fine with Richard earl of Cornwall , lord of the honor of Eye , for his relief.23 In 1235-6 ( ? ) earl Roger Bigod held of the honor of Lancaster 3 fees late of Hugh le Rus . In 1242-3 Roger de Clere held 1 fee in Ludborough , Lincs . , of the heirs of William de Aubigny of Belvoir.25 In 1249 William le Rus was appointed one of the escheators of Norfolk in place of William Rusteyn , but was removed 3 months later.2 In 1250 he gave the king £ 100 for the marriage of Alice his daughter , 27 aged 2 years , who had become an important heiress by the recent death in 1249 of Roger de Clere , whose only daughter Agatha , begotten of Matilda sister and co heiress of John de Fay of Bramley , Surrey , was wife of William le Rus and mother of his only child Alice.28 In 1254 inquiry was to be made if Agatha late wife of William le Rus was daughter and heir of Roger de Clere and if the said Roger held Ludborough manor of Odinel de Aubigny.29 As far back as 1197 , upon partition of the barony of Ralph de Aubigny of Auburn , Lincs . , Ralph de Clere had then held of that fee in Ludborough and Buslingthorpe the fee of 3 knights.30 


 William le Rus died in 1253 and , by inquest held then and again in 1260 , it was found that he held the manor of Stinton with the advowsons of Sall and Heydon of Roger de Clere , of whom he had purchased the same for 400 marks , who held it of William de 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 456] ===
 
 
 440 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 Say for I fee ; the manor of Ludborough , Lincs . , of the heirs of William de Belvoir ( of William de Aubigny in 1260 ) , for 3 fees ; the manors of Aketon , Hasketon and Clopton , Suff . , of Roger le Bigod , Earl Marshal , of the honor of Lancaster , and the manor of Whitlingham , Suff . , similarly held for I fee ; the manor of Strad brook , Suff . , of Richard earl of Cornwall ( king of Almain in 1260 ) , of the honor of Eye for 40 marks fee farm , and the manor of Bircholt , Suff . , pertaining to Stradbrook , of Roger de Huntinge feld ( William de H. in 1260 ) . Alice his daughter was aged 5 years ; but Hugh le Rus , aged 30 , was heir of the manor of Stinton to hold of the said Alice , because she could not be ' heir and lady . ' 31 It was found further in 1261 that Alice was then wife of Richard Lungespeye , who held with her a moiety of the manor of Bramley , Surrey , of the king in chief for 1 fee.32 After the decease of Roger de Clere , in 1249 , his relict Matilda ( de Fay ) had held the moiety of that manor.33 The identity of this Richard , who was always afterwards named ' de Briouze ' ( Braiosa , Breuse etc. ) , has never been established . The late Mr. Chester Walters suggested that he was son of John lord Braiose of Gower by Margaret daughter of Llewelyn prince of Wales , and certain evidences which follow seem to support the suggestion . A plea tried in Sept. 1265 , which shews incidentally that Richard de Briouze and Alice le Rus were then married , records a claim against them brought by Matilda Lungespeye as to why they took goods worth £ 100 from the manors of Stradbrook , Stinton , Bramley , Ludborough and Sinnington , which she had at farm.34 


 
 
 36 


 This lady was daughter and heir of Walter de Clifford 35 by Margaret daughter of Llewelyn prince of Wales , and married in 1254 William de Longespée , only son and heir of William de Longespée , earl of Salisbury ( d . 1250 ) ; after whose death in 1257 she was intended by Henry III for his brother Geoffrey de Lezig nan ; but she was unmarried in 1263 and later married John Giffard , first lord Giffard . In 1271 an agreement was made by Richard and Alice with John Giffard and Matilda his wife , who claimed dower of Matilda in all the property named in the inquests after the death of William le Rus , including Bramley , Surr . , and Sinnington , Yorks . , whereby John and Matilda obtained the manors of Asketon and Stinton for Matilda's life only.³ 


 37 


 In 1281 Richard de Briouze ( Breuse ) and Alice his wife defended their right to a market at Ludborough ; 38 in 1286 to view and other liberties in Heydon , which the king's attorney alleged to have been appropriated from the crown by Matilda de Muleton , and to the like in Whitlingham , Stradbrook and Akenham.39 Richard de Briouze , knt . , attested a Suffolk charter in 1290 , but died soon after . In 1294 Mary late wife of William de Briouze ( Breouse ) held a moiety of the manor of Bramley of Alice late wife of Richard de Briouze.40 In 1298 Alice held the 3 fees in Suffolk on the honor of Lancaster , formerly of William le Rus , of the earl of Norfolk , who held of Edmund earl of Lancaster.41 She died in January 130142 holding the manor of Stinton of the heir of William de Say for I fee ; Giles de Briouze , her son , was aged 28 and more.43 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 457] ===
 
 
 STINTON 441 


 
 
 As stated at n . 1 , Giles de Briouze in 1302 held 1 fee in Sall , Lincs . ( including Stinton ) , of Geoffrey de Say , who held of the earl of Warenne.44 He also held tenements in Heydon , Corpusty and Oulton , Norf . , pertaining to his manor of Stinton and to his barony.45 Giles died in 1312 , holding jointly with Joan his wife the manor of Stinton of Geoffrey de Say and all the other manors before named , except Bramley , and also excepting the manors of Akenham , Whitlingham and Hasketon , which David de Fletewyk and Agatha his wife held for life , and that of Wytlisham similarly held by Alice de Beaumont , of which last the reversion was to Joan , Giles ' relict ; Richard their son was aged 9 years . In 1311 a moiety of the manor of Bramley was held of the young Richard.46 Robert ( ? potius Richard ) de Briouze , son of Giles , died in his minority in 1325 ; John his brother , aged 19 , was his heir.47 This John died in 1342 ; 48 to him John de Warenne , earl of Surrey , gave the manors of Holme and Sowerby , Yorks . , with the hamlets of Cart worth , Wooldale , Scammonden and Warley , and pasture in Sowerby shire and Aringden Park , in fee ; after John's death the earl held the premises for 2 years , until his death , when the king gave them to Edmund de Langley his son ; John de Briouze , son of the said John , was aged 19 on 23 March , 1348.49 


 It appears that Richard de Briouze acquired from Thomas de Muleton and Matilda his wife , granddaughter and heir of Robert de Vaux of Gilsland , 50 the Cumberland manor of Aikton , except the advowson of the church , and gave it in frank marriage with his daughter Margery to Roger de Colevill of Castle Biham , Lincs . 51 This transaction appears to account for the occasional references to Matilda de Muleton in the foregoing account . In 1281 she claimed the manor of Thorganby , Yorks . , against William de Briouze and William son of Alina de Briouze . She held land in Surlingham and Keswick , Norf . , of her own inheritance . 


 
 
 52 


 
 
 2. Ibid . 1 Ric . 44 . 


 1. Pipe R. 31 Hen . II , 41 . xxiii . ) , 42 . 4. Close R. 67 . 7. Pipe R. 31 Hen . I , 90 . 52. 10. Red Bk . 354 . 13. R. de Oblat . 13 , 39 . R. Lit. Claus . i . 264b . 


 5. Cal . Chart . R. i . 46 . 8. Ibid . 5 Hen . II , 9 , 11 . 11. Bk . of Fees , 233. 12 . 14. Cal . Chart . R. i . 47 . 16. Ibid . 3326. 17. Ibid . 4936 . 20. Cal . Chart . R. i . 46 . 


 3. Feet of F. ( P.R.S. 6. Ibid . 47 . 9. Ibid . 11 Hen . II , Mon. Angl . vi . 600 . 15. R. de Fin . 587 ; 


 18. Pat . R. 21. Bracton's 24. Red 


 ii . 75 . 


 532 , 564. 19. Ibid . 31 , 155 . Note - Bk . n . 578. 22. Excerpt . Fin . i . 227. 23. Cal . Pat . R. 43 . Bk . 569. 25. Testa , 3186. 26. Close R. 137 , 155. 27. Excerpt . Fin . 28. Cal . Inquis . i . 49 , 143. 29. Ibid . 85. 30. Feet of F. , Lincs . i . 112. 31. Cal . Inquis . i . 73 , 128 . 32. Ibid . 143 . 33. Ibid . 50 . 34. Abbrev . Placit . 1576. 35. Cal . Pat . R. 1263 , p . 260 . 36. Ibid . 1257 , P. 537 ; Mon. Angl . vi . 916b . 37. Feet of F. Lincs . ii . 291. 38. Placit . de quo war . 399. 39. Ibid . 486 , 732 . 40. Cal . Pat . R. 79. 41. Cal . 42. Cal . Fine R. i . 436. 43. Cal . Inquis . iv . 19 . 45. Ibid . 390 . 46. Cal . Inquis . v . 146 , 192 . 48. Cal . Fine R. v . 288. 49. Ibid . ix . 89. 50. Close 51. Cal . Inquis . ii . 421 ; i . 277-8 . 52. Cal . Misc . Inq . 


 Inquis . iii . 308 . 44. Feud . Aids , iii . 414 . 47. Ibid . vi . 440 . R. 1240 , p . 188 . i . 366 . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 458] ===
 
 
 442 HONOR OF WARENNE 


 
 
 XLIX . 


 In Freebridge hundred , Norfolk , William de Warenne in 1086 held in Hillington 2 ploughlands , of which he held 1 ploughland in demesne ; a freeman held 15 acres . 


 
 
 Berner the arblaster held of the king in Hillington 2 carucates . In 1181 the sheriff of Norfolk accounted for £ 7 of farm of the land of Hugh de Burdeleis in Hillington , and in subsequent years to the time of Richard I for £ 10 each year.¹ Hugh de Burdeleis was father of a long line by Lauretta daughter of Eustace Picot , an heiress whose inheritance descended to her heirs . It is not clear why Hillington became escheat at Hugh's death in 1181. It was evidently part of the Domesday holding of Berner the arblaster , whose lands in Scoulton Burdeleis and Thompson descended as a tenure by serjeanty to Hugh's heirs . For other references to this family see Farrer , Feudal Cambridgeshire ( 183-185 ) , and Round , The King's Serjeants ( 233 , 239 ff . ) . 


 2 


 In 1190 William de Warenne owed 20 marks for recognition whether Daniel de Merlay had better right to hold 10 librates of land in Hillington of him for £ 4 a year or whether it was the king's demesne ( as an escheat ) ; Daniel accounted for 40 marks for the said convention.3 In 1198 Eva daughter of Hawise de Merlai passed by fine to Ralph de Toicy 40 acres of land and a mill in Hillington , and Nicholas Crawe and Avice his wife passed a similar tenement to the same Ralph.4 


 In 1212 Geoffrey de Merlai held a certain fee in Hillington of Hubert de Burgh by the heiress of William de Warenne ( Wormegay ) his wife , which Berner the serjeant sometime held of the king's progenitors by serjeanty and was afterwards given to Reginald de Warenne by Henry II.5 In 1220 Sara de Anes was assured in her seisin , as against Richard de Merlay , of the advowson of the church of Hillington , to which she had presented the last parson.6 Presumably she was connected with Geoffrey de Anes or Danys already named at n . 42. In 1228 a fine of the advowson of a mediety of the church of Hillington was levied between Richard de Merlay and Bartholomew de Crek and Margery his wife , " which Margery was daughter and heir of Geoffrey de Anes . 


 In 1252 the land late of Thomas de Ingoldesthorpe in Hilling ton was in the king's hands . In 1254 Margery de Crek made agreement with John son of Bartholomew de Crek ( her son ) re specting her dower in the manor of North Creake , and with Sarra daughter of the same Bartholomew respecting the manor of Hilling ton and the advowson of a mediety of the church . ( See n . 24. ) This was the holding afterwards divided into the Uphall and Nether hall manors . 


 
 
 In 1297 John son of Alan Aubyn of Stamford and Sibyl his wife acquired land here from Robert son of Albyn of Stamford , and three years later the same John and Sibyl acquired from Sarra daughter of Richard de Merlay land in Hillington with the advow son of a mediety of the church.10 Mr. Parkin identified this holding 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 459] ===
 
 
 HILLINGTON - ROUGHAM , FRANSHAM 443 


 
 
 3 


 as Aubyn or Albon's manor . In 1302 the earl of Warenne and his tenants held fee in Hillington by an escheat.11 This presumably refers to that part of Hillington which had been held by the Merlays . Reference has been made above ( n . 45 ) to the acquisition in 1316 by Robert de Reppes from the earl of Surrey of the manor of Hill ington.12 In 1329 the same Robert alienated a messuage here to the priory of Cocksford , 13 and in 1338 he and Sibyl his wife settled upon Lawrence de Reppes their son and Margaret his wife the manor of Hillington , with 70 acres of land and £ 7 14s . 4d . of rent in Stibbard , Grimston , Congham and Gayton , with the advowson of Stibbard.14 Mr. Parkin identified this holding in Hillington as Burys Hall . 


 
 
 1. Pipe R. 27 Hen . II , 92. 2. Bk . of Fees , 10 , 346 , 387 bis . 3. Pipe R. 2 Ric . m . 9d . 4. Feet of F. , Norf . 10 Ric . 5. Bk . of Fees , 133 . 6. Bracton's Note- Bk . n . 1452. 7. Feet of F. , Norf . 12 Hen . III . 8. Cal . 10. Ibid . 25 and 28 Edw . I. 13. Ibid . 415. 14. Ibid . 106 . 


 Pat . R. 160. 9. Feet of F. , Norf . 38 Hen . III . 11. Feud . Aids , iii . 408. 12. Cal . Pat . R. 610 . 


 
 
 L. 


 In Launditch hundred in 1086 William de Warenne had in Rougham and Fransham 2 carucates . 


 This holding formed part of that described above at n . 6 . 


 Hugh de Fokinton gave to the monks of Castleacre two - thirds of the tithe of his demesne of Rougham , for the soul of his brother Robert de Fokinton , to which among others Ralph son of ( Joscelin ) the castellan of Arundel was witness ¹ ( c . 1190 ) . Alexander son of William de Rogham occurs in 1180 , as stated above ( n . 22 ) , and was attorney for Emma wife of Philip de Burnham in 1201.2 


 1 


 The superior lords of this holding under the Warennes were the Pereponts , who passed their interest away before 1242 to John de Gatesden . From that date the descent was as described above ( n . 6 ) . The family of L'Estrange were mesne tenants of a portion of the holding , probably of that in Fransham . 


 William le Buteler of Rougham gave to abbot Nicholas and the convent of Wendling the service of 2 tenants in Fransham ; wit nesses : Hamon Burch , Gilbert de Fransham , Saer de Frivill , and Hamon de Pattesle , knights . Olive late wife of William le Buteler of Rougham , ' widow , released to the convent of Wendling her dower in the above holdings . 5 


 41 


 1 


 In 1302 the heirs of William le Buteler held 1 fee in Rougham and Fransham of the heirs of Henry de Skegeton ( of Brighton ( ? ) ) , who held of John de Gatesden and he of the earl of Warenne ; of this knight's fee Ralph le Marshal held fee ( in Fransham ( ? ) ) of Roger L'Estrange , who held of Gatesden as above . In 1316 John de Cressingham and Alice de Rugham were two of the 5 lords of Rougham . In 1324 John de Cressingham and his parceners held this fee of Aymer de Valence , the service of which was assigned in the following year to the dower of Mary relict of the said Aymer.9 


 6 


 8 


 
 
 1. Chartul . f . 24. 2. R. Cur . Reg . iii . 407. 3. Cal . Chart . R. i . 265 . 4. Cat . of Anct . D. v . A.10572 . 416. 7. Ibid . 453. 8. Cal . Inquis . vi . 330. 9. Cal . Close R. 266 . 


 5. Ibid . A.12118 . 


 6. Feud . Aids , iii . 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 460] ===
 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 461] ===
 
 
 INDEX 


 The figures in heavy type indicate principal accounts of places and families . 


 ABBE , Will . , 245 Abberton , Essex , 193 


 Affligam , Flanders , 7 Agatha , 10 


 
 
 Abbess Rothing . See 


 Abbess , Essex 


 Abbinton , ' Suss . , 60 


 Abbot , Rohaise , 245 ; Will . , 245 Abbotstone , Hants . , 86 


 Abduction from Burpham , Suss . , 73 ; from Cowdray by Midhurst , Suss . , 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 Roding , 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 92 


 Abel , Jo . , 233 ; Margery , 233 Abernon [ Abernun , D'Abernon ] , de , 


 Ingram , 220 ; Jo . , 340 , 358-359 ; Ric . , 356 ; Walter , 356 ; Will . , 356 Abingdon , Berks . , abbey , 223 ; fee , 174 , 368 ; abbots - 171 , 224 , 236 ; Faritius , 41 , 223 ; Rainald , 223 Ablevill , de , Hamon , 208 Abraham , Jew of Berkhampstead , 88 Abrenhale . ' See Longbridge , Suss . Acard , priest , 55 


 Acheleia . ' See Oakley , Little Achestede , in Elham , Kent , 6 


 Achinctona . ' See Eckington Acholte Wood , in Elham , Kent , 6 Acleta , ' Essex , 271 


 Acre , 312 ; monastery , 312 , 313 , 424. See Castleacre Acre de Crichelade . See Cricklade , Wilts . 


 
 
 Acre [ Achra , Acra ] , de , Derkin , 73 ; Emma , 73 ; Rainald , 425 ; Ralph , 299 ; Roland , 352 ; Rotbert , 425 ; Tostan , 381 ; Turstan , 396 ; Wie bert [ Wicbert , Withebert ] , 381 , 396 , 425 


 Acrinton , Oxon . , 335 ' Aculeus . ' See Aguillon Adam , sergeant , 413 


 vicecomes , 327 


 
 
 ( of Leybourne , Kent ) , 182 Adderbury , de , Ric . , 185 Adderbury , Oxon . , 79 Addington , Surr . , 191 , 296 , 347–350 ; serjeant of , 74 


 Adeliza ( of Feltwell , Norf . ) , 359 Adeliza [ Adelide ] , queen , 6 , 7 , 10 , 12 , 17 , 18 , 24 , 30 , 41 , 50 , 65 , 84 , 91 , 118 


 Adelold , chamberlain , 157 Adelwald , Edm . , 374 


 Aeliva , wife of Will . the sewer , 396 


 
 
 Age , de , Oliver , 422 Agée , de , Hugh , 422 Agnes , sister of Pagan , 393 


 wife of Geoff . son of Hascu , 42 . See Faleise 


 wife of Joscelin the castellan , 18 wife of Ralph son of Brien , 127 Agrinomis , ' Hugh , 250. See Beau champ , de Aguillon [ Aculeus , ' Ageliun , Agel liun , Aguillun , Agullun , Aguylun ] , family , 1 , 2 , 24 , 44 , 72-75 , 296 , 348 , 356 ; Agatha , 75 , III , 114 , 115 ; Cecily , 75 ; Constantia , 73 ; Eleanor , 75 ; Godfrey , 63 ; Isabel , 326 , 350 , 358 ; Joan , 348 , 349 , 356 ; Jo . , 74 , 75 ; Juliana , 75 ; Mabel , 75 ; Manasser , 38 , 72 , 73 , IOI ; Margery , 74 , 75 ; Margt . , 349 , 350 ; Mary , 74 , 75 ; Matilda , 75 ; Reg . , 44 , 73-75 , 78 ; Ric . , 10 , 43 , 63 , 72-75 ; Rob . , 10 , 43 , 72-74 , III , 114 , 115 , 191 , 319 , 324 , 326 , 328 , 337 , 349 , 358 , 366 , 373 , 394 ; Sarra , 73 , 75 ; Tho . , 75 ; Will . , 43 , 44 , 72-75 , 305 , 347-349 , 356-357 


 
 
 $ 


 
 
 Aikton , Cumb . , manor , 406 , 441 Ailward , archdeacon , 175 Aitardus ( of Shotesham , Norf . ) , 137 Akenham , Suff . , 438 , 440 ; manor , 441 Akeny [ Akenny , Akyny ] , de , Bald 


 win , 335 ; Florence , 183 ; Isabel , 368 ; Joan , 368 ; Rog . , 183 , 368-369 


 
 
 Aketon , Suff . , manor , 440 Alan , 1 , 21 


 Alan ( of Snettisham , Norf . ) , 138 Albemarle [ Aumale , D'Aumarle ] , countesses - 184-185 , 189 , 192 , 209 , 232 , 236-237 , 241-243 , 245 , 278 ; Isabel , 208 ; Isabel des Forz , 173 , 190 , 192 , 202 , 224 , 226 ; Albe marle and Devon , Isabel , 169 


 
 
 earls - 147 , 186-187 , 190 , 196 , 199 , 209 , 226 , 228 , 232-233 , 237 , 240 , 244 ; Will . , 218 


 
 
 See also Aumale , Forz , des 


 fee , 201 , 406 , 408 ; honor , 147 , 185 , 188 , 217 , 233 , 247 , 406 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 462] ===
 
 
 446 INDEX 


 
 
 Albert , clerk , II Albini , de . See Aubigny , de Albo Monasterio , de . See Whit church 


 
 
 Albon or Aubyn , in Hillington , Norf . , manor , 443 Albourne , Suss . , 71 Albreda , sister of Eudes the sewer , 


 
 
 393 


 Albury , Oxon . , 234-236 ; lord of , 237 ; manor , 236 


 
 
 Aldelin ( of Carlton Scroop , Lincs . ) , 


 416 


 Alderton , N'hants . , 297 , 413-414 Suss . , 365 ; church , 324 Aldham , de , Baldwin , 329 ; Nicholaa , 329 


 
 
 Aldingbourne , Suss . , 81 Aldon [ Aldoun ] , de , Matilda , 163 ; Tho . , 163 ; Sir Tho . , 163 Aldrington [ Aldrinchton ] , Suss . , 310 , 


 322 , 324 , 345 , 366 Aldsworth , Suss . , 2 , 87 Aldwick , Suss . , 331 , 332 Alençon , Rob . , count of , 5 Alfred ( of Benefield , Suss . ) , 355 Alice , dau . of Joscelin the castellan , 65 


 
 
 dau . of Maximus , 140 


 nurse to Prince Edward , 436 Alienore , queen , 281 Allington [ Alincton ] , Suss . , 309 , 310 , 312-315 , 319 , 334 , 345-346 ; manor , 


 
 
 307 


 Almain , Ric . , king of , 440 Almanesche , abbey of , 2 , 37 , 90 Almeshoe , Herts . , 165 , 293–295 ; manor , 168 


 Alphamstone , Essex , 409 Alphington , Devon , 414 Alsieshay , Essex ( ? ) , park , 336 


 Alta Ripa [ Alta Riva ] . See Hautrive Alto Bosco , de . See Hautbois Alvered ( of Twineham , Suss . ) , 355 Alveston , Gloucs . , wood , 99 Alveva ( of Feltwell , Norf . ) , 359 Alvred , 310 , 393 


 
 
 the Englishman , 123 


 Alvric , thegn ( of Great Crawford , Dors . ) , 248 


 Alvythele , de , Swetman , 278 ; Will . , 278 


 Alweton , de , John , 237 Alwin ( of Storrington , Suss . ) , 81 ( of Sutton , Beds . ) , 268 


 ( of Wickham , Suss . ) , 339 , 378 sochman , 166 , 220 


 
 
 Amabel , dau . of Will . s . of Fulcher , 182 


 
 
 Amauri , Rog . , 412 Amberley , Suss . , 47 Amblie [ Ambli , Ambly ] , de , family , 164 , 176 , 246 ; Constance , 175 ; Eleanor , 176 , 177 ; Geoff . , 175–176 , 


 
 
 178 ; Sir Geoff . , 176-177 ; Ralph , 167 , 174-175 , 178 , 189 , 220 ; Ric . , 174 , 287 ; Rohaise , 189 ; W. , 360 ; Will . , 175-176 


 
 
 Amfrey , sewer , 217 


 Amiria ( of Mere , ' nr . Rainham , Kent ) , 183 


 Amundevill , de , Matilda , 47 ; Ralph , 403 ; Ric . , 47 Ancher , Nich . , 159 Andevill [ Anevill , Aundevill ] , family , 164 ; Agnes , 208 ; Alex . , 208-209 ; Alice , 207 ; Clemency , 208 ; Hamelin , 207 , 208 ; Hugh , 254 , 263-264 ; John , 207 , 263-264 ; Jordan , 247 ; Margery , 442 ; Matilda , 247 ; Pet . , 247 ; Ralph , 208 ; Ric . , 207 , 208 ; Ric . , clerk , 208 ; Tho . , 207 , 208 ; Will . , 247 Andrew , John , 102 


 Anemere , de , Will . , 115 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 Anes , de , Geoff . , 442 ; Sarah , 442 Anesti [ Anesty , Anestye ] , de , family , 


 165 , 210 , 271 ; Denise , 107 , 266 ; Hubert , 265-266 , 271 ; Isabel , 266 ; Nich . , 107 , 255 , 265-266 , 271 ; Ric . , 271 


 Angers , St. Nich . , abbey , 171 , 414 , 415 ; Jordan , abbot , 415 


 Angervill , de , Benedict , 142 ; Emma , 142 


 Angmering [ ' Angemare ' ] , Suss . , 2 , 70-72 ; manor , 49 


 
 
 Anjou , 81 , 277 


 Anmer , Norf . , 309 , 393 , 395 Anneville - en - Saire , Manche , 207 Anschetil [ Anschitel ] , 55 


 ( of Lavingdon , Bucks . ) , 244 ( of South Newington , Oxon . ) , 227 Anselm , priest , 258 Ansfrid , chaplain , 190 


 ( of Buckland , Kent ) , 163 Ansgot [ Anesgot ] , chamberlain , 118 , 129 Ansketill , knight , 223 Anslevill [ Anlevill , Ansevill , Anster vill ] , Hamelin , 220 ; Humph . , 207 ; Will . , 56 , 376 


 
 
 6 , 


 
 
 Anstey , Herts . , 107 , 266 ; Great , 108 Antingham , Norf . , 431 Appelby , de , John , 244 Appleton , Norf . , 110 , 115 Aquarius , Brian , 188 ; Joan , 188 Aquenesima , Wulfric , 360 Arblaster , Berner the , 434 , 442 Arcarius , Rainald , 242 Ardern [ Arden , Arderne , Aredern ] , de , family , 1 , 28-29 , 297 , 407 , 409 ; Aelina , 29 ; Dionisia , 29 ; Erneburga , 409 ; Isolda , 145 ; Lucy , 29 , 67 ; Ralph , 21 , 28 , 29 , 66 , 67 , 409 , 410 ; Sir Ralph , 407 ; Ranulf , 410 ; Rob . , 350 ; Tho . , 7 , 28 , 29 , 67 , 98 , 409 , 410 ; Will . , 145 , 409 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 463] ===
 
 
 INDEX 447 


 
 
 Ardingley , Suss . , 324 , 326 ; church , 


 311 


 Ardleigh , Essex , manor , 421 Ardley , Oxon . , 200 


 Argenciis , de , Ralph , 31 


 Argentem [ Argentan , Argentein , Argenteym , Argentuein ] , de , 


 70 ; Giles , III , 115 336 ; John , 59 ; Margery , III ; Reg . , III , 115 , 180 , 328 ; Ric . , 128 ; Tho . , 57 , 81 ; Will . , 82 


 
 
 &gt; 


 
 
 Aringden Park , Yorks . , 441 Arkesden [ Archesdene ] , de , Eudes , 186 ; Will . , 186 , 210 


 Arkesden , Essex , 164 , 186–187 , 190 , 192 , 297 , 406-408 


 Arklow , Wicklow , monks of , 113 Armingford , Cambs . , hund . , 230 Arnald or Ernald ( of Graffham and Strettington ) , 41 


 
 
 Arrington , Cambs . , 173 Arsic [ Arsik , Arsyk ] , Alex . , 194 ; John , 118 , 119 ; Rob . , 195 


 fee , 191 , 195 , 234 , 236 ; honor , 227 , 233 


 Artur ( of Boxted , Essex ) , 276 Arundel , countesses - 54 , 63 , 70 , 71 , 74 , 85 , 88 , 95 ; Alice , 307 , 342 ; Isabel [ Isabella ] de Aubigny , 33 , 44 , 47 , 51 , 53 , 58 , 81 , 122-124 , 128 131 , 133 , 137-138 , 140 , 142 , 144 , 146 , 148 , 151 , 152 , 307 ; Mabel , 13 ; Matilda , 12 , 242 , 243 


 earls - 4-5 , 19 , 22 , 33 , 35 , 38-39 , 45-46 , 49 , 53–54 , 63-64 , 68–70 , 74 , 76 , 78 , 82 , 85 , 87-88 , 92-93 , 96– 97 , 99 , 103 , 107 , 112 , 119-120 , 124-125 , 129-130 , 132-137 , 139 , 141 , 145-146 , 148 , 156 , 158 , 161 , 163 , 203 , 347 , 385 , 387 , 415 , 426 ; Edm . , 15 , 16 , 94 , 100 , 307 , 342 , 410 , 415 ; Hugh de Aubigny , 13-15 , 19 , 44 , 58 , 67 , 80 , 89 , 91 , 99 , 101 , 118 , 122 , 124 , 136 , 139 , 140 ; Ric . , 26 , 47 , 49 , 72 , 78 , 94 , 307 , 342 , 415 ; Will . de Aubigny I , 4 , 5 , 8 , 10 , 12 , 30 , 42 , 54 , 57 , 62 , 65-66 , 69 , 72 , 82-83 , 87 , 97 , 105 , 118 , 153 , 155 , 218 ; Will . II , 7-10 , 12 , 141 , 242-243 ; Will . III , 12 , 13 , 38 , 48 , 77 , 85 , 97 , 101 , 105 , 121 , 134 ; Will . IV , 13 , 14 , 78 , 82 , 83 


 See also Aubigny , de 


 see 


 Arundel , de , family , 116 ; Alan , 27 ; Avelina , 27 ; Emma , 17 ; Eudes [ Idonis ] , 27 ; Hugh , 17 ; Isabel , 69 ; Joscelin the castellan , Joscelin ; Juliana , 79 , 93 , 94 ; Rob . , 16 , 272 ; Rog . , 153 , 272 ; Sybil , 69 ; Will . , 69 , 79 , 93 , 94 Arundel , Suss . , 89 , 97 ; borough , II ; castle and manor , 3 , 4 , 6 , 8 , 10 , 12 , 14 , 32 , 47 , 57 , 91 , 94 ; castellan , see Joscelin ; Causeway , 


 
 
 canons , 69 , 83 ; chapel , 49 ; con stable , 25 , 28 ; coroner , 370 ; court , 68 ; fee , 22 , 38 , 164 , 182-183 , 217 , 218 , 266 , 271 , 331 , 335 , 378 , 383 , 385 , 385 , 390 , 394 , 426 , 433 ; forest , 51 , 92 ; honor , 1-163 , 189 , 392 ; leper sisters of St. James's , 10 ; lord of , 51 , 72 ; park , 192 ; port near , 7 ; priors 45 , 47 ; Denis , 31 ; sheriff , 4 , 17 Ascelles , de , Phil . , 46 


 
 
 Ascio ( or Atso ) , of Offham , Suss . , 90 Ascius ( Azo ) , of Offham , 41 Aselin ( of Tasburgh , Norf . ) , 359 Asevill , de , Tho . , 66 


 
 
 Ash , de , John , 212 


 Ash , Kent , manor , 185 


 
 
 Maners , Hants . , 165 , 166 , 272 , 


 
 
 345 


 Ashby , Norf . , 102 


 Ashby de la Zouche , Leics . , manor , 


 36 


 
 
 Ashcombe . Suss . , 327 Ashdon , Essex , 313 Ashford , Derbys . , 77 


 
 
 Kent , manor , 184 , 185 ; lady of , 185 


 Ashingdon , Essex , church , 219 Ashley , Hants . , manor , 96 


 
 
 N'hants . , 113 


 Ashridge , rector and brethren of , 256 Ashwellthorpe , 429 Askby , Norf . , 109 


 Asketon , manor , 440 


 Asketon , in Ireland , castle , 113 Aspale [ Aspehale ] , de , Mirabel , 60 ; Rog . , 366 ; Tho . , 60 Aspenden , Herts . , 165 , 168 , 271 Aspley , Norf . , 181 Assarts [ Assartis , Essarts , Essarz ] , 


 de , family , 297 , 406 , 407 , 409 , 410 ; Gilb . , 408 ; Hugh , 407-408 ; Ralph , 187 , 407-408 ; Sir Ralph , 407 ; Randulf , 408 ; Ric . , 407-408 ; Rog . , 408 


 Asserby , Lincs . , 245 


 Asshe , atte , Lucy , 433 ; Rog . , 433 Assington , Suff . , 239 Aston , de , Ric . , 244 


 Aston by Birmingham , manor , 369 Athelburch [ Athleburch ] , de , family , 3 ; Adam , 145 ; Alfred [ Alvred ] , 4. 145 


 
 
 &lt; 


 
 
 Athelingworth , ' Surr . , 355 Athol , David de Strabolgi [ Strath bogie ] , earl of , 279 , 336 , 344 , 382 , 392 , 412 , 427 , 434-436 , 438 ; Joan , countess , 279 , 344 , 412 , 427 , 434-436 


 Atlingworth , 358 Attleborough , Norf . , 145 , 151–152 , 296 , 306 , 318 , 385-389 Attlebridge [ Attlebrigg ] , Norf . , 320 , 399 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 464] ===
 
 
 448 INDEX 


 
 
 Aubervill [ Odburgville , Osberteville , Otburvill ] , de , Hugh , 28 ; Joan , 246 ; Matilda , 28 ; Ranulf , 28 ; Rog . , 166 , 174 , 186 , 189 , 207 , 216 , 246 , 247 , 273 ; Will . , 28 , 166 , 246-247 , 268 


 Auberville , in the Calvados , 246 Aubigny [ Albineio , Albini , Aubeny ] , 


 de , family , 2 ; Adeliza [ Athelidis ] , 6 , 7 , 10 , 12 , 17 ; Alice , 9 , 12 , 155 ; Aveline , 105 ; dame Avice , 12 ; Cecily , 14 ; Ellis , 78 , 79 ; Godfrey , 7 , 12 ; Hen . , 42 , 218 ; Hugh , 13 , 15 , 58 , 78 , 83 , 89 , 101 , 124 , 140 ; Humph . , 6 ; Isabel [ Isabella ] , 14 , 78 , 123-124 , 129 , 138 , 140 , 144 , 148 , 152 , 156 , 307 ; Jo . , 78 , 79 , 148 ; Juliana , 78 ; Matilda , 4-6 , 12 , 118 ; Nicholaa [ Nichole ] , 14 ; Nigel , 6 , 12 , 155 ; Odinel , 439 ; Olive , 10 , 101 ; Phil . , 340 ; Ralph , 142 , 439 ; Reyner , 12 , 42 ; Ric . , 307 ; Rob . , 155 , 218 , 258 ; Rog . , 12 ; S. , 218 ; Steph . , 218 ; Will . I , butler , 4-9 , 17 , 24 , 38 , 78 , 81 , 100 , 102-103 , 112 , 118 , 120 , 125 , 127 , 129–131,133-134 , 139 , 141 , 145 , 149 , 154-155 , 158 , 217 ; Will . II , 6-9 , 12 , 25 , 42 , 118 ; Will . III , 10 , 12 , 42 ; Will . IV , 13 ; Will . , 172 , 218 , 356 , 439 , 440 


 See also Arundel Aubigny , honor , 12 Auboys , de . 


 See Hautbois 


 Aubrey , 310 ; earl , 182 ; ( of Twine ham , Suss . ) , 355 


 
 
 Auburn , Lincs . , 406 , 439 Aubyn , Alan , 442 ; Jo . , 442 ; Sibyl , 


 
 
 442 


 Aucher , Nich . , 159 


 Augustin ( of Strettington ) , 41 Augy . See Eu 


 Aumarle , family , 165 , 181 ; Cecily , 248 ; Ric . , 247 ; Tho . , 248 See also Albemarle 


 
 
 Auney [ Aunay ] , de , Joan , 369 ; Nich . , 369 ; Will . , 170 


 Aunus , de , Geoff . , 428 ; Margery , 428 


 
 
 See also Anes 


 Aureavalle . See D'Orival 


 Ausyngges . ' See Elsing , Norf . Auterive [ Autryve ] , de . 


 
 
 See 


 Hautrive , de 


 Aveley [ ' Avillers ' ] , Essex , 296 , 400-402 ; manor , 278 Avenel [ Avenell , Avenil ] , family , 1 , 50 , 165 ; Jo . , 50 , 286–287 , 388 ; Sir Jo . , 286 ; Ragnulf , 49 ; Ralph , 50 ; Ranulf , 49 ; Ric . , 50 , 286 ; Rob . , 50 , 71 , 286 ; Rolland , 428 ; Sabina , 50 ; Walter , 286 ; Will . , 49-51 , 71 , 287 


 ' Avenel Sokene , ' Suss . , wood , 50 


 
 
 Averham , Notts . , 85 ; church , 84 ; manor , 86 


 Avisford , Suss . , court , 26 Avon , Hants . , 60 ; South , 56 Avranches , de , Will . , 97 , 153 Axholme , Isle of , 95 Aygenens , de , Rob . , 366 Ayguens , de , John , 366 Aylesham , de , Rog . , 395 Aylmerton , Norf . , 296 , 370 , 373 , 375 Ayott , de , John , 59 Ayott , Suss . , 59 


 Ayton in Cleveland , Yorks . , 399 Azo ( of Up Marden , Suss . ) , 72 Azor ( of Congham ) , 309 ; ( of Wick ham , Suss . ) , 378 


 
 
 286 ; Sir 


 BAA [ de Bathonia ] , family , 165 ; Agnes , 254 , 264 ; Eleanor , 68 , 176-177 ; Eliz . , 264 ; Hen . , 262 ; Hugh , clerk , 208 ; Joan , 68 , 176-177 ; Jo . , 68 , 176 ; Sir Jo . , 176 ; Osbert , 254-255 , 264 ; Reg . , 251 , 264 ; Ric . , 264 Babington , de , Hugh , Hugh , 286 ; Ric . , 287 Babraham , Cambs . , 155 , 217 Bachamstede , Essex ( ? ) , 193 Bacheton , de , Will . , 393 Bacon [ Bacoun , Bacun , Bakon , Bakoun , Bakun ] , family , 3 ; arms , 330 ; Edm . , 330 ; Geo . , 151 , 153 , 336 ; Margery , 152 , 330 ; Reg . , 151 , 153 ; Sir Rob . , 152 ; Rog . , 151-153 ; Sir Rog . , 152-153 ; Tho . , 151-153 , 325 , 326 See Hengham Baconsthorpe [ Baconesthorpe , Ba cunesthorp , Bacunthorp , Bakenes thorpe , Bakknesthorp , Bakounes thorp ] , de , family , 3 , 152 ; Edm . , 152 , 430 ; Sir Edm . , 152-153 ; Rob . , 151-153 , 430 ; Sir Rob . , 152 ; Tho . , 151 Baconsthorpe , 338 , 430 Bacton , Suff . , 424 , 428 


 Norf . , 3 , 150-153 , 


 Baddow , Great , Essex , 164 , 210-212 Badelesmere , de , Barthol . , 40 , 77 ; Giles , 77 ; Margt . , 40 


 Badenoch , 279 


 
 
 Badewe , de , Hugh , 216 ; Will . , 211 Badham , de , Tho . , 59 Badlesmere , Kent , 194 


 ' Baggerigge , ' Oxon . , 240 


 
 
 Bakewell , Derbys . , 203 ; manor , 205 Balcombe [ Balecumba ] , Suss . , I ; 


 church , 312 , 314 


 
 
 Balderton , Notts . , 64 Baldesey , Suff . , 28 


 Baldeshill [ ' Baldeshild ' ] , Suss . , 321 Baldriseie , de , Alvred , 28 Baldwin the despenser , 10 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 465] ===
 
 
 INDEX 449 


 
 
 $ 


 
 
 4 


 
 
 Baldwyne , Joan , 369 ; Walter , 369 Balesham , de , Alice , 142 


 Balking , Berks . , 170 , 223 ; manor , 171 Ballingdon , Essex , 402-404 ; chapel , 198 


 Balliol [ Bailloil , Baillol , Bailol , Baliol , de , Geoff . , 155 ; Gilb . , 109 ; Hen . , 121 ; Ingram , 19 ; Ralph , 301 


 
 
 Balmer , 311 


 Balne , Yorks . , 417 


 
 
 Balsdean , 310 


 Bamburgh , Northumb . , castle , 307 Bancs , de , Sir Geoff . , 387 Banham [ Bangham , Benham ' ] , Norf . , 3 , 108 , 147 , 342-344 , 359 ; rectory , 437 


 
 
 Baolt , Rog . , 90 ; Sir Rog . , 89 Barcombe [ Bercham , Bercompe ] , 


 Suss . , 296 , 305 , 312 , 322 , 324 , 339-342 ; church , 314 ; manor , 324-325 , 336 ; Walter , rector , 340 Bardfield , Essex , 211 


 
 
 Little , Essex , 211 ; church , 211 ; manor , 212 Bardolf , family , 142 , 296 , 341 ; of Stoke Bardolf and Wormgay , 141 , 297 ; Agnes , 341 ; Beatrice , 323 ; Doun , 323 ; Eliz . , 326 ; Hugh , 152 , 324-326 , 341 , 358 , 392 ; Sir Hugh , 358 ; Isabel , 326 , 341 , 358 ; dame Isabel , 350 ; Jo . , 324 , 326 , 423 ; Sir Jo . , 341 ; Juliana , 423 ; Tho . , 141 , 326-327 , 341 , 350 , 367 ; Will . , 323–326 , 341 , 358 , 423 ; Sir Will . , 140 , 143 Bardwell , Suff . , 360 Barentyn [ Barantyn ] , de , Drew , 374 , 375 , 409 ; Joan , 374 ; Sir Will . , 374 Bareston , de , Guy , 127 


 Barford , Beds . , 179 


 
 
 St. Michael , Oxon . , 62-64 , 228 ; manor , 64 


 Bargate . ' See Gargate 


 Bargham . ' See Burpham , Suss . Barging , de , Tho . , 255 


 Barham , Suss . , 58 


 
 
 Little , Beds . , 64 , 177-178 , 249 , 250 , 335 ; church , 178 


 
 
 Barkeston , family , 3 


 Barkeston , Suff . , 3 , 127 


 
 
 Barkway [ Berqueia ] , de , Gunter , 269 Barkway , Herts . , 149 , 269 ; church , 


 
 
 273 ; manor , 150 Barlavington , Suss . , 17 , 19 , 20 , 24 ; church , 65 ; park , 92 , 93 Barley , Herts . , 165–166 , 246 , 268–271 , 


 293 , 294 


 
 
 ' Barleston . ' See Barnston , Essex Barmbrough , Yorks . , 297 , 416-417 Barmeling [ Barlinges , Barmelinges , 


 
 
 Bermeling , Bermelinges ] , de , family , 165 ; Jo . , 292 ; Ralph , 292 ; Rob . , 292 ; Will . , 292 


 III . 


 
 
 Barmer , Norf . , 110 , 115 , 299 , 314 , 319 , 373-374 , 395 ; manor , 371 Barming , Kent , 73 , 165 West , Kent , 292 


 
 
 Barney , Norf . , 393 , 394 Barnham , Norf . , 338 , 385 , 387 , 388 ; church , 388 


 
 
 Broom , Norf . , 334 , 337 


 Suff . , 117 , 334-336 , 391 , 399 ; manor , 337 


 by Thefford , Suff . , 338 


 Suss . , 52 n . , 55 , 58-59 , 83 ; St. Mary's church , 56 


 Barningham , Norf . , 123 , 150 , 403 


 " 


 North Wode , ' 151 , 152 


 Tune , ' 151 


 
 
 1 


 
 
 Barnston [ Bernardeston ] , de , Will . , 


 115 


 
 
 [ Berneston ] , Essex , 214-216 ; manor , 214 


 Barnstaple , honor , 377 Barnwell , prior of , 387 


 Barpham , Suss . , 30 , 37 , 39 Barrington , Cambs . , church , 337 Barrow , Rutl . , 406 


 
 
 Hall , Essex , 220 


 Barry , Herbert , 159 ; Will . , 159 , 160 Barscote , Sim . , 267 , 268 Barsham , Norf . , 112 , 296 , 299 , 325 326 , 334-338 , 389 , 393 , 428 East , Norf . , 325 


 North , Norf . , 337 , 370 , 373-375 , 382 , 394-395 


 West , Norf . , 296 , 381-382 Barstaple , hund . , Essex , 221 Barton , de , Isabel , 273 ; Sim . , 273 Barton , Cambs . , 208 


 -by - Boughton , Kent , manor , 185 in Wy , Kent , 184 Norf . , 434 


 Great , 167 Little , 270 


 Suff . , 269 , 360 , 361 Mills , Suff . , 343 


 Barwick , Norf . , 115 , 136 , 137 , 370 , 375 ; St. Mary's church , 135 See Berwick 


 Basham , North , Norf . , 373 Basilea ( of Allington ) , 310 


 Basing , Hants . , 56 ; barony , 57 , 60 ; honor , 56-59 , 65 


 Basset , family , 232 ; of Ryston , 51 ; of Sapecote , 77 ; Alan , 39 ; Sir Alan , 232 ; Alice , 38 , 39 ; Gilb . , 38 , 39 ; Hawise , 53 ; Law . , 53 ; Margery , 357 ; Margt . , 77 ; Phil . , 232 ; Ralph , 77 ; Rob . , 229 , 238 ; Tho . , 38 , 39 , 231 ; Thurstan , 218 Bassingburn [ Bassingbourne ] , de , family , 201 ; Alan , 172 ; Alex . , 172 ; Aubrey , 201 , 207 ; Isabel , 147 ; John , 63 , 201-202 , 207 , 231 , 277 ; Margt . , 63 ; Steph . , 201 ; Tho . , 140 ; Warin , 147 


 
 
 2 G 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 466] ===
 
 
 450 INDEX 


 
 
 Bastard , Ralph , 90 Bataille [ Bataile ] , John , 202 ; Rog . , 221 ; Tho . , 146 ; Will . , 118 , 221 Bath , bishops - Savary , 67 ; Will . , 72 Baud , Joan , 330 ; Sir Will . , 330 Bavent [ Badvent , Bahevent , Bat 


 vent , Bautvent ] , de , family , 1 , 3 ; Adam , 22 , 23 ; Eustace , 134 ; Eus tachia , 135 ; Felicia , 135 ; Hawise , 23 ; Hugh , 135 ; Hubert , 135 ; Jo . , 134 ; Mich . , 135 ; Picot , 4 , 9 , 134 ; Ric . , 134 ; Rob . , 134 , 135 ; Sir Rob . , 135 ; Rog . , 22 , 23 , 135 ; Sir Rog . , 23 , 26 ; Sarah , 22 ; Tho . , 135 ; Will . , 134 


 
 
 Bawdsey , Suff . , 13 Bawsey , Norf . , 29 


 Bayeux , bishops - 4 , 62 , 100 , 110 , 129 , 133 , 138-139 , 145 , 148 , 155 , 157 , 160 , 182 , 190 , 194 , 197-199 , 210 , 217 , 233-234 , 287 , 292-293 ; John , 281 ; Odo , 166 , 281 ; Rob . , 281-282 


 
 
 Bayham , canons of , 387 ; Jordan , abbot of , 387 


 Bayhouse [ de Baiocis , Baiouse , Bayuse ] , de , family , 164 ; Jo . , 186 ; Rob . , 186 Baynard [ Bainard ] , family , 297 ; Cassandra , 118 ; Geoff . , 118 , 313 ; Lucy , 433 ; Matilda , 433 ; Ric . , 205 ; Rob . , 432-433 ; Sir Rob . , 433 ; Tho . , 433 ; Will . , 432 


 barony , 365 


 Bealmes , de , Randulf , 9 Beamonstown 


 [ Beaumundeston ] , 


 Kent , 156 


 Beaubec ( Normandy ) , abbey , 361 , 415 Beauchamp [ de Bello Campo ] , family , 


 296 ; of Bedford , 249 ; of Eaton Socon , Beds . , 165 , 249 , 266 ; Adam , 254 ; Aelina , 29 ; Agnes , 250 ; Alda , 250 ; Alienor , 264 ; Andrew , 238-239 ; Beatrice , 290 , 291 ; Ellis , 365 ; Eudes , 44 , 254 ; Eva , 238-240 ; Gunnora , 290 , 291 ; Guy , 244 ; Hawise , 34 ; Hen . , 250 ; Hugh , 168 , 178 , 248-250 , 252-254 , 261 , 263 , 264 ; Isabel , 343 ; Joan , 239 , 256 , 367 ; Jo . , 178 , 239– 240 , 251-253 , 256 , 259 , 263 , 290 , 362 , 363 ; Juliana , 255 ; Margt . , 173 , 362 ; Matilda , 149 , 358 ; Miles , 250 ; Nesta , 178 , 362-363 ; Olive , 250 , 253 ; Oliver , 250-251 , 253 , 263 ; Pain , 249 , 250 ; Phil . , 176 ; Philippa , 250 , 251 ; Ralph , 45 , 219 , 256-257 , 259 , 265 , 267 ; Ric . , 250-251 , 255-256 ; Rob . , 44 ; Rog . , 45 , 250-251 , 256 , 260-261 , 263-265 ; Sir Rog . , 256-257 ; Ro haise , 249 ; Sim . , 50 , 249 , 250 ; Steph . , 29 ; Tho . , 256 ; Walter , 


 
 
 252 ; Will . , 44 , 149 , 253-256 , 264 , 289-291 , 343 , 367 


 Beauchamp ( in Loddon ) , manor , 117 Beaufou . See Belfou Beaugenet , Suss . , park , 93 Beaulieu [ de Bello Loco ] , Hants . , 


 abbey , 356 ; abbot , 357-358 Beaumont [ Beamund , de Bello Monte ] , de , family , 2 ; Alice , 441 ; Geoff . , 95-96 ; Godfrey , 310 ; Jo . , 435 ; Will . , 178 , 215 , 362–363 , 394 ; Sir Will . , 319 Beaumont ( near Tendring ) , Essex , 361-362 ; church , 361 ; manor , 216 , 363 


 
 
 fee , 319 


 Bec , St. Mary , abbey , 421 


 
 
 Beche , de la , Beatrice , 383 ; Mar gery , 330 ; Nich . , 330 ; Pet . , 383 ; arms , 330 Beckenham , Kent , 349 Beckerton , Norf . , 325-326 , 389 Beckley [ Bekkles by Hengam upon Tamese ' ] , in Chalk , Kent , 164 , 198-199 


 Beddingham , Suss . , church , 90 Bedefund , Suss . , 69 


 Bedford , 181 , 211 , 249 , 255 , 267 , 290 ; army , 203 , 259 ; barony , 249 , 254 ; Hugh de Beauchamp , baron of , 250 ; castle , 187 , 190 ; honor , 249 , 267 , 290 ; prison , 260 Bedinges , de , Adam , 69 ; Margt . , 69 Bedingham [ Bedigham ] , de , Bene dict , 142 


 
 
 Bedingham , Norf . , 2 , 121-123 , 142 143 ; St. Mary's church , 142 Bediston , church , 313 Beechamwell , 425 Beeding , Suss . , 334 


 Beeston , Beds . , 155 , 165 , 180 , 217 , 219 , 255 , 262-263 , 265 , 281-284 Norf . , 324 , 433 


 Begehurst , Suss . ( ? ) , 403 Beigham , Suss . , 353 ; abbey , 318 Beighton , Suff . , 175 Bek , de , Anthony , 68 


 
 
 A 


 
 
 Bekeswell , de , Pet . , 426 ; Sibil , 426 Belchamp , Little , Essex , manor , 291 Belencumbre ( Pais de Caux ) , All Saints , 300 


 
 
 Belet , Alan , 17 ; Annora , 314 , 320 ; Emma , 314 , 316 , 320 ; Hervey , 314 , 320 , 386 ; Hugh , 335 ; Isabel , 69 ; Lora , 212 ; Mich . , 314 , 316 ; Master Mich . , butler , 320 ; Ralph , 69 , 70 ; Rob . , 243 ; Sybil , 69 , 70 Belfou [ Beaufou , de Bella Fago , Beufeu ] , de , family , 2 , 3 , 111–115 , 131 ; Agatha , III , 114 , 115 ; Agnes , 5 , III , 112 ; Alice , III , 113 , 114 ; Almude , 5 ; Amalric , III - 113 ; Aumari , 113 ; Elena , III ; Emma , 111-114 ; Fulk , III , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 467] ===
 
 
 INDEX 45I 


 
 
 113 , 349 , 426-427 ; Geoff . , III ; Gilb . , III , 112 ; Hen . , III , 113 , 114 ; Hugh , 131 , 132 ; Isabel , III ; Joan , III , 114 ; Jo . , 115 ; Margery , 111 , 114 ; Nich . , 132 ; Philippa , III , 114 ; Ralph , III 115 ; Ric . , III , 113 , 115 ; Tho . , 111-113 ; Will . , 115 


 See Waterperry fee , 148 


 Belhawe . ' See Bylaugh , Norf . Belhouse , in North Tuddenham , Norf . , 434 


 
 
 Belhus , family , 297 , 434 ; Hubert , 83 ; Ric . , 434 ; Rob . , 434 ' Belice ' ( Benenden , Kent ) , 157 Bellême [ de Belalm ' ] , de , Rob . , 5 , 17 , 48 


 Bello Monte , de . See Beaumont Bellozanne , near Gournay , canons of , 422 


 Bellum Campum [ Beauchamp ] of Normandy , 250 


 Belmeis [ Belmes ] , de , family , 1 , 35 ; Adelicia , 35 ; Matilda , 35 ; Phil . , 35 ; Ranulf , 35 ; Ric . , 41 ; Will . , 35 


 
 
 Belvidere , ' 312 


 Belvoir , de , Will . , 440 


 Benacre , Suff . , 328 , 329 , 332 , 333 Bendenges , de , Will . , 221 Bendevill , de , Aubrey , 73 ; Emma , 73 ; Sarra , 73 


 Benefeld [ Beningefeld ] , family , 296 , 344 , 355 ; Agnes , 346 ; Hen . , 358 


 Benefield , de , Jas . , 346 ; Jo . , 345–346 , 358 ; Ric . , 346 , 358 ; Tho . , 345 ; Walter , 346 ; Will . , 346 , 357 Benelond , de , Geoff . , 206 ; Rob . , 206 Benenden [ Benyndenn ] , de , Rog . , 


 
 
 159 


 Benenden , Kent , 3 , 157-160 


 Benevill , de , Alvred , 220 ; Will . , 220 Benfield , Suss . , 330 , 355 , 357 , 358 Great or South , Essex , 176 


 Benfleet , Essex , 188 


 
 
 儒 


 
 
 Bengham . ' See Margaretting , Essex 


 Bennington , Herts . , 256 


 
 
 Lincs . , 297 , 418 


 Long , Lincs . , prior , 418 


 Benstede , de , John , 294 ; Petronilla , 


 
 
 294 


 Bentfield , Essex , church and manor , 336 


 Bentley , Suff .. 417 


 Bepton , Suss . , 20 , 39 


 Ber ... , de , Tho . , 161 


 
 
 Berard , family , 360 


 Berardus ( of Banham , Norf . ) , 147 Bercam , de , Hen . , 339 


 Bercamp [ Berecamp ] , de , Matilda , 


 
 
 332 , 339 , 340 


 Bercham . See Burpham , Suss . 


 
 
 Berdewell [ Berdeswell ] , de , family , 3 ; John , 131 , 145 ; Rob . , 131 ; Tho . , 131-132 ; Will . , 131 


 
 
 Bere , Dors . , 68 Bere , le , John , 388 Bereford , de , Baldwin , 246 ; Sir Baldwin , 209 ; Dionisia , 62 , 227 , 228 ; Edm . , 209 , 245-246 ; Sir Edm . , 246 ; Will . , 209 , 245 ; Sir Will . , 209 


 Berenden , Suss . , 71 


 Berengaria , queen , 204 


 Berevill , de , Clarice , 181 


 Berges , in West Dean , Suss . , 10 , II , 50 


 Bergholt , Suff . , 204 , 369 ; manor , 369 


 Bering . ' See Burpham , Suss . Berkeley , de , John , 162 Berkesheved , de , Luke , 107 


 Bermelie . ' See Barming , West , Kent 


 Bermere , de , Martin , 371 Bermere , Norf . , 320 


 
 
 &lt; 


 
 
 Bermondsey , monastery , 155 , 217 , 290 , 409 ; prior , 291 , 409 , 410 Bernake [ Bernak ] , de , Alice , 34 , 45 , 51 , 86 , 88 ; Will . , 34 , 45 , 51 , 86 , 88 Bernard of Savoy , 78 , 377 Berner , serjeant , 442 Berner the arblaster , 434 , 442 Berners [ Berneres , Bernieres , Ber niers , de Berneriis ] , de , family , 164 ; Beatrice , 214 ; Christina , 216 ; Edm . , 216 ; Hen . , 214 ; Isabel , 214 ; Jas . , 216 ; Jo . , 214 216 ; Sir Jo . , 216 ; Matilda , 215 ; Ralph , 178 , 213-215 , 363 ; Ric . , 216 ; Rob . , 214 ; Will . , 213-215 fee , 216 


 
 
 Bernevall , de , Hen . , 436 ' Bernham . ' See Barnham , Suff . Berningham , de , Walter , 124 Berningham , Norf . , 124 


 Bernwood , Oxon . ( ? ) , forest , 244 Berqueia , de , See Barkway Berry Herbert , church , 313 Bersted , de , Walter , 383 


 Berwick [ Berwyk ] , de , Ivo , 115 , 374 Berwick , 354 


 
 
 Berners , Essex , 216 ; manor , 214 Great , Salop , 182 , 183 


 Besevill , de , Isabel , 254 , 267 ; Rob . , 254-255 , 267 , 387 ; Will . , 388 Beslum , de , Diana , 419 


 Besthorpe , Norf . , 3 , 134–135 , 145 , 389 Betchworth , Surr . , manor , 73 , 307 


 
 
 West , Surr . , 73 Bethersden , Kent , 162 


 
 
 Bethune , de , Baldwin , 218 Beuehorne , bridge , 311 


 Beumunde , John , 96 


 Bevendean , Suss . , 296 , 305 , 324 , 332 , 353-354 


 Beverley , provost of , 33 , 86 , 101 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 468] ===
 
 
 452 INDEX 


 
 
 Beverington , Suss . , 353 , 354 Bewbush Suss . , manor , 40 Bewper , par . Frittenden , Kent , 183 ; manor , 185 


 Bexley , Kent , king's park , 194 Beyton , Norf . , 176 Bicester , canons , 232 , 412 ; prior , 


 
 
 232 , 233 , 412 , 413 Bicham , Norf . , 328 Bicker , Lincs . , 105 , 107 Bicknor , Gloucs . , 


 manor , 50 


 Kent , 185 ; lady of , 185 ; manor , 185 


 Biddenham , Beds . , 163 Biddlesden [ Bittlesden ] , Will . , abbot of , 364 


 Bidun , de , Agnes , 103 ; Hadenald , 


 
 
 50 ; castle and 


 
 
 103 


 Biendene , Geoff . , 341 


 
 
 Bignor , Suss . , 20 , 24-26 , 62 ; church , 25 ; lord of , 26 ; manor , 25 , 26 , 26 n . , 63 


 Bigod [ Bigot , Bygod , Bygot , Bygoth ] , family , 296 ; Adeliza , 5 ; Alice , 123 ; Alice , countess , 344 ; earl , 430 ; Gundreda , 222 , 428 ; Gun dreda , countess , 124 ; Hugh , 31 , 43 , 68 , 124 , 127 , 130 , 428 , 439 Hugh , earl , 8 , 383 , 385 , 438 Hugh , justiciar , 343 ; John , 223 ; Margery , 183 , 221 , 222 ; Margt . , 183 , 221 ; Matilda , 4-6 , 124 ; Ralph , 124 ; Ric . , 109 ; Rog . , 4 , 9 , 68 , 104 , 117-118 , 120-121 , 


 
 
 123-124 , 131 , 135-137 , 144 , 152 , 176 , 210 , 343-344 , 361 ; Roger , earl , 318 , 385 , 428 , 439-440 ; Tho . , 221-222 ; Will . , 183 , 221-223 


 fee , 103 , 355 ; honor , 4 , 211 See also Norfolk 


 
 
 Bigorre , Boze , count of , 19 Bigrave . See Bygrave , Herts . Bigworth , Suss . , 20 


 89 ; 


 Biham . See Bytham Castle Bilham , Yorks . , 416-417 Billingehurst , de , Will . , 31 Billinghurst , Suss . , 31 , 82 church , 31 Bilsham , in Yapton , Suss . , I , 49–51 , 83 


 
 
 Bilsington , Kent , 2 , 6 , 12 , 100-102 , 162 ; church , 12 ; manor , 5 , 14 ; priory , 101 ; serjeanty , 102 Bilton , Warwks . , 1 , 8 , 15 , 56-57 , 59 , 60 ; church , 56 , 61 Binderton , Suss . , 2 , 77-78 Binham , Norf . , 310 ; monk , 424 ; prior , 121 , 373 ; priory , 120 , 125 , 145 , 393 , 394 , 402-403 ; St. Mary's , 118 


 
 
 Bininden , de , John , 158 Binstead , Hants . , 41 Binstead , Suss . , 1 , 37 , 83 


 
 
 Bintree , Norf . , 436 


 Birch , Essex , 204 ; manor , 205 Bircholt , Suff . , manor , 440 Birdbrook , Essex , rector , 402 Birdham , Suss . , 55 , 58-60 ; church , 56 


 Birdsall , Yorks . , 107 


 Birling , Kent , manor , 320 Birmingham , 369 


 Birston , de , John , 392 ; Ralph , 391 Biset [ Biseth ] , Ernald , 412 ; Hen . , 403 ; Isolda , 403 Bisham , Berks . , 251 


 Bishop Stortford , court , 106 Bishopstrow , Wilts . , church , 313 Bixton , Norf . , 387 ; church , 388 Blackborough , St. Katherine , nuns of , 114 , 149 Blackgrove , Berks . , 289 Blackwell , Essex , manor , 410 , 415 Bladon , Oxon . , 94 , 95 Blainville - sur - Ry , 413 Blakeham , manor , 29 


 Blakeney , Norf . , 95 , 364 , 373 , 375 Blakenham , Suff . , 343 , 365 , 366 Little , Suff . , 344 


 Blaminister , ' manor , 373 


 Blanchelande , St. Nicholas , abbey , 50 Blancmoster [ Blancmuster , Blauk 


 moster , Blaumosteer , Blaumoster , Blaumuster , Blauncmoster ] , de , family , 296 , 374 ; Bertreya , 373 ; Eleanor , 373-374 ; Joan , 374 ; Jo . , 375 ; Margery , 375 ; Matilda , 372 , 374-375 ; Rob . , 265 ; Tho . , 373 ; Walter , 375 ; Will . , 265 , 372-374 ; Sir Will . , 373 


 fee , 374 


 
 
 &lt; 


 
 
 Blankney , Lincs . , 238 


 Blatchington , Suss . , 296 , 310 , 336 , 379-380 


 
 
 West , 368 Blathe , Ric . , 51 


 
 
 Bleachington , Wolwin , reeve of , 345 Bleatham ( in Egdean ) , Suss . , 19 , 20 Blechinton , Suss . , 306 


 Bledeslowe , Ludwig , 187 Bledlow , Bucks . , 421 , 422 


 Blendworth [ ' Bloneworth ' ] , Hants . , 93 , 94 Blenvell , de , Ric . , 320 ' Bletcham , ' 


 Bletteham . ' See 


 Egdean , Suss . Bletsoe , parson of , 260 


 Bliborough . See Blythborough . Blisworth , 411 


 Blithfield , Staffs . , 107 Bloch , Geoff . , 254 


 Bloet , ' Will . , 63 


 Blois , Isabel of , 301 ; Ralph del , 217 ; Will . of , 416 


 Blonorton , de , Will . , 434 


 Blo ' Norton , Norf . , 2 , 123-125 , 297 , 433-434 ; lady of , 124 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 469] ===
 
 
 INDEX 453 


 
 
 Blossevill , de , Jordan , 300 


 Blound , Will . , 109 


 Blount , le , John , 88 ; Juliana , 161 , 185 , 346 , 414 ; Tho . , 161 , 185 , 414 Bluet , Eleanor , 278 ; Jo . , 278 Blund [ Blunde ] , family , 2 ; Ellen la , 343 ; Pet . , 12 , 87-88 ; Rob . , of London , 225 ; Tho . , 88 Blundel , John , 259 , 260 ; Ric . , 259 Blunvill [ Blunvyle ] , de , Will . , 109 , 151 , 337 Blythborough , Suff . , 317 ; priory , 135 


 Blythford [ Blyford ] , Suff . , 107 , 109 Boarhunt , Hants . , manor , 96 


 West , Hants . , 95 Boarstall , Bucks . , 244 


 Bobbing , Kent , church , 194 Boceo , de . See Buci Bocland [ Bocheland , Boclonde ] , de , Hawise , 291 ; Hugh , 166 , 288 , 291 ; Jo . , 128 


 See Boughton Malherbe , 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 Boctone . ' 


 Kent 


 Bodeketon . See Budeketon 


 Bodenham , de , Joan , 30 ; Ralph , 30 Bodham , Norf . , 181 


 See Roudham 


 
 
 Bodiam , Kent , bridge , 160 


 Bodney , Norf . , 327 , 329-330 Boeles , de , Jo . , 256 , 267 Bohun , de , family , 1 , 3 ; Engelger [ Enjugier , Ennilger ] , 29 , 65-67 , 81 , 85 , 335 ; Franco , 66-68 ; Grace , 39 ; Humph . , 110 , 157 , 177 , 252 , 327 ; Jas . , 68 ; Joan , 68 , 176-177 ; Jo . , 40 , 68 , 68 n . , 176–177 , 319 ; Sir Jo . , 25 , 68 , 177 ; Margt . , 54 ; Savary , 47 , 67 ; Will . , 167 , 177 


 See also Hereford 


 
 
 Bohun , fee , 28 , 409 ; honor , 157 , 158 Bohun ( Normandy ) , 66 


 Boitone . ' See Boughton Malherbe , Kent 


 Bokelee , Kent , 31 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 Bokelee . ' See Bowley by Maid stone , 182 


 Bokenham , de , Pet . , 132 ; Rob . , 109 ; Will . , 384 


 See Bukenham 


 Bokministre , de , Sim . , 284 


 Bolebec , de , Gilb . , 200 


 Bolmer , 309 


 Bolney , Suss . , 329 


 Bolsover Castle , constable of , 343 Bolton , de , Basilia , 73 ; Hugh , 73 Bomsted . See Bumstede 


 
 
 Bonde , Arnold , 127 


 Boneye , Notts . , manor , 419 Bonhunt , Essex , 202 , 205 ; manor , 


 206 


 
 
 Bonigton , de , John , 154 Bonuncourt , de , Guy , 155 


 
 
 Borehunt [ Bourhunte ] , de , Sir Jo . , 78 ; Mary , 78 ; Ric . , 78 Borha , ' Suss . , 52 


 Borham , family , 323 ; Lambert , 323 Borray , de , Berenger , 172 ; Gerard , 172 


 Bosevill [ Busevill ] , de , family , 297 ; Ellis , 416 ; Fulk , 416 ; Rob . , 300 ; Will . , 238 


 Bosham , Suss . , 1 , 43-44 , 65–68 , 322 ; chapelry , 74 , 381 ; church , 55 ; manor , 68 


 Bosingle , de , Will . , 388 


 Bosmere , Suff . , hund . , 204 


 
 
 Boson , Alex . , 268 


 Boston , St. Botolph , Lincs . , 95 Boteler [ Boteller , Botiler , Botiller , Buteiller , Buteler , Butiller , Pin cerna ] , le , family , 164 , 192 , 296 ; of Warrington , Lancs . , 54 n .; Adam , 190-191 ; Cath . , 435 ; Edm . , 358 ; Hugh , 190-191 , 292 , 347 ; Jas . , 358-359 ; Joan , 191 , 358 ; Jo . , 97 , 337 ; Nich . , 435 ; Olive , 443 ; Phil . , 256 ; Ralph , 167 , 190-191 ; Rob . , 45 , 192 , 336 ; Rog . , 191-192 ; Theobald , 358 ; Will . , 53 , 191 , 443 


 Boterel , Will . , 218 Botetourte [ Butetourte , Buteturt ] , de , John , 109 , 291 , 327 , 375 ; Matilda , 291 ; Tho . , 291 


 Boucy , de . See Buci 


 Bouehorne ' bridge , 300 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 Bouet , Joan , So ; Nigel , So ; Will . , 80 Boughton , Norf . , 320 


 
 
 Aluph , Kent , 163 


 Boughton Malherbe , Kent , 198 , 199 ; chapel , 198 


 Boulge , Suff . , 424 


 Boulogne , de , Pharamus , 188 Boulogne , counts - Eustace , 168 , 211 , 269 , 273 , 275 , 285 ; Steph . , 52 ; Will . , 285 , 371 


 
 
 fee , 277 ; honor , 108 , 128 , 154 , 187 , 200 , 211-212 , 266 , 268–271 , 273 , 276-277 , 285-286 , 317 Boun , de , Eruinger , 67 


 
 
 honor , 67 


 Bourg Dun ( Seine Infér . ) , 300 Bourn , honor , 64 


 Bourton , Black , Oxon . , 237-241 Clanfield , Oxon . , 240 


 Bouvill , de , Will . , 385 


 Bovery , de , Albin , 49 Bovill , de , John , 13 


 Bowers Gifford , Essex , 164 , 220–222 Bowley , Kent , 32 , 167 


 by Maidstone , Kent , 182-183 , 


 
 
 185 Bowthorpe , Norf . , 137 , 178 , 179 Boxgrove , Suss . , 42 , 55-61 , S2 , 93 ; convent , 83 ; monks , 10 , II , 25 , 66 ; priors - 58 , 59 ; Rob . , 86 ; 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 470] ===
 
 
 454 INDEX 


 
 
 priory , 12 , 21 , 24 , 30 , 41 , 45 , 47 , 56-58 , 60-61 , 76–77 , 101 ; St. Mary's church , 56 


 Boxley , Kent , 332 ; abbey , 182 , 197 Boxsted [ Boxstede ] , family , 277 ; 


 
 
 Adam , 276 ; Adeliza , 276 ; Everard , 276 ; Hugh , 276 ; Reg . , 276 ; Rob . , 276 ; Warner , 276 ; Will . , 276 Boxted , Essex , 165 , 275-277 Boyland [ Boylaund , Boylund ] , de , family , 3 ; Elena , 145 ; Sir Jo . , 145 ; Matilda , 144-145 ; dame Matilda , 325 ; Ric . , 144 , 145 Boys [ Bois , de Bosco ] , de , family , 239 ; Ernald , 239 ; Hugh , 376 ; Joan , 239 ; Jo . , 241 ; Sir Jo . , 241 ; Jordan , 386 


 Brabourn , Kent , manor , 218 Bracking , 210 


 
 
 Bracy , Fulk le , 375 ; Matilda de , 374 ; Rob . de , 374 ; Sir Will . 


 de , 374 Bradeherst , 312 Bradelegh , 221 , 222 


 Bradenham , de , Will . , 425 Bradenham , Norf . , 141 , 143 , 326 , 328 , 382-384 ; manor , 383 ; park , 383 


 
 
 West , 334 , 337 South , 338 


 Bradfield , Essex , 202 


 
 
 Norf . , 304 ; church , 318 Suff . , 365 


 Bradford , Som . , manor , 340 Bradley , Lincs . , 418 Bradwell - on - Sea , Essex , 21 , 206 Braibroc , family , 165 ; Christiana , 263 ; Hen . , 263 ; Rob . , 251 , 263 264 


 Braiose [ Braose , Braouse , Breouse , Breuse ] , de . See Briouze Braithwell , Yorks . , manor , 307 Brake , Sim . , 329 


 
 
 Brakelond , de , Jocelin , 360 Bramber , Suss . , 313 ; honor , 23 , lord of , 351 ; 


 
 
 340 , 352 , 379 ; marsh , 351 ; rape , 72 Bramberden , 351 Bramley , Surr . , 356 , 439 ; 


 357 , 440 , 441 Brampton , de , Brian , 419 Brampton , Hunts . , hays , 288 


 N'hants . , 64 


 
 
 g da 


 
 
 Brandon , Norf . , 151 


 Suff . , 268 


 
 
 Branche [ Braunch , Braunche ] , Sir Nich . , 374 ; Pet . , 373-374 ; Ric . , 372 ; Sim . , 372 ; Will . , 371-372 Brandestun , Suff . , 22 


 
 
 manor , 


 
 
 Brantingham , Yorks . , 397 


 Brattleby , Lincs . , church , 56 Braughin , Herts . , 266 


 
 
 Brant ( of Barningham , Norf . ) , 123 Brant , Will . , 370 


 
 
 Braunford , de , Eufresia , 432 ; Pet . , 432 Braxted , Essex , 165 ; manor , 168 , 266 , 271 


 Great , 108 , 271 


 Bray , de , Ada , 260 ; Hugh , 260 ; Tho . , 380 


 Bray , Essex , manor , 268 High , church , 313 


 ( Normandy ) , forest , 422 Brayfield , Hants . , 71 Breauté , de , Falkes [ Faukes ] , 187 , 190-191 , 204 , 208 , 218 , 226 , 231 ; Jo . , 191 ; Margery , 226 , 231 ; Will . , 231 


 
 
 Breckles [ Breccles , Brecles ] , de , Alice , 133 ; Jo . , 133 , 134 Breckles , Norf . , 133 


 
 
 Little , Norf . , 133 Bredfield , Suff . , 424 Brendhall in Harlow , Essex , manor , 189 


 Brent Eleigh , Suff . , 122-123 ; manor , 


 I22 


 
 
 Hall , manor , 188 Bressinges , de , Tho . , 183 Bret , le , family , 2 ; Adam , 109 ; Alice , 89 ; Emicine , 89 ; Eustace , 109 ; Jo . , 109 , 412 ; Pet . , 109 ; Rob . , 89 ; Sarra , 412 


 Bretevill [ Brettevill , Bruttevill ] , de , Emma , 258 ; Geoff . , 251 , 255 , 258-259 , 261 ; Hamon , 258 ; Hugh , 258 ; Rob . , 259 ; Will . , 251 , 260 Bretham , de , Ric . , 146 Brethenham , de , Alex . , 146 Breton [ Bretoun , Bretun ] , le , family , 164-165 , 200-201 , 276-277 ; Ade liza , 200 ; Alice , 126 ; Amabel , 200 ; Catherine , 200 ; Geoff . , 200 , 317 ; Isabel , 200 ; Jo . , 276 ; Sir Jo . , 205 ; Juliana , 276 ; Law . , 200 ; Lewis , 200 ; Mabel , 200 ; Margt . , 317 ; Matilda , 276 ; Matt . , 210 ; Nich . , 200-201 ; Ralph , 285 ; Ranulf , 200 ; Rob . , 200 ; Rog . , 126 ; Walter , 200 ; Will . , 151 , 200–201 , 276 , 363 


 
 
 Brettenham [ ' Bretham ' ] , Norf . , 3 , 146-147 , 164-165 , 189 , 277-278 Suff . , 361 


 Bretteville , in Normandy , 73 Bretton , Yorks . , 420 


 
 
 West , Yorks . , 419 , 420 Brewosa , de , Alice , 322 n .; Ric . , 322 n . 


 Bricett [ Briset ] , Suff . , canons of , 138 ; convent , 139 ; priory , 127 Great , Suff . , 21 , 139 Bridge , Kent , church , 313 Bridgenorth , 250 


 Brien , Rob . , 181 


 Brien ( of Stratton , Oxon . ) , 410 Briencun , Normandy , 277 


 Brienz ( of Caversfield , Bucks . ) , 410 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 471] ===
 
 
 INDEX 455 


 
 
 Brienzun [ Briançon , Brianzon , Brien cun ] , de , family , 165 , 277 ; Agnes , 277 ; Barthol . , 147 , 277-278 , 401 ; Eleanor , 278 ; Eliz . , 278 ; Joan , 278 ; Jo . , 277-278 , 401-402 ; Margery , 278 ; Tho . , 277 ; Will . , 147 , 278 


 Brightford , Suss . , 62 , 71 Brighthampton , Oxon . , 237 , 241 Brightlingsea , Essex , 199 ; manor , 166 , 167 


 Brighton , Suss . , 299 , 310 , 313 , 315 316 , 334 , 339 , 379 , 443 ; church , 312 , 314 ; manor , 307 Brigsley , Lincs . , 284 Brihmer , a rustic , 370 Brikesheved , de , Luke , 204 Brimpsfield , Gloucs . , 23 Brinklow , Norf . , manor , 142 ' Brinton , ' Hants . , 95 Briouze [ Braiose , Breuse ] , de , family , 297 ; Alice , 357 , 440 ; Alina , 441 ; Giles , 319 , 440-441 ; Joan , 441 ; Jo . , 440-441 ; Margery , 441 ; Margt . , 406 , 440 ; Mary , 440 ; Phil . , 313 , 351 ; Ric . , 357 , 406 , 438 , 440–441 ; Sir Ric . , 440 ; Rob . , 441 ; Will . , 41 , 71-72 , 340 , 351-352 , 440-441 ; Sir Will . , 23 


 
 
 Brisley , Norf . , 399 ; manor , 336 Bristelin , priest , 311 


 Bristelm ( of Swanborough ) , 310 Bristelmestona . ' 


 See 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 Suss . 


 Bristol , 7 


 Briston , Norf . , 366 , 391-392 Britagne , de , John , 270 


 Brito , Will . , 70 


 
 
 Brighton , 


 
 
 Brittany , de , John , 149 , 277 Brittany , 99 , 169 , 171 


 
 
 57 


 
 
 counts - Conan , 172 ; Stephen , 


 
 
 earl , 378 


 fee , 437 ; honor , 170 , 172 , 173 Briwerre [ de Bruera , de la Bruere ] , family , 297 ; Joan , 413-414 ; Margt . , 414 ; Ralph , 286 ; Will . , 18 , 35 , 99 , 203 , 238 , 356 , 411 , 413-414 ; Sir Will . , 1S 


 
 
 Broadhurst ( in Horsted Keynes ) , Suss . , 62 


 
 
 Broadwater , Herts . , 340 


 Broc [ Brock , Brok ] , de , family , 2 ; Alice , 69 ; Dametta [ Damietta ] , 69 , 70 ; Edeline [ Edelina ] , 69 , 71 , 182-183 ; Eveline , 356 ; Isabel , 69 ; Law . , 235 , 237 , 241 ; Nigel , 70-72 , S2 , 324 ; Ralph , 166 ; Ranulf , 11 , 69-71 ; Ranulf , usher and marshal , 356 ; Rob . , 70 , 71 ; Sybil , 69 


 See also Broke Brockhurst [ Brokhurst ] , de , Matilda , 


 60 


 
 
 Brockhurst in the Weald , Suss . , 60 Broi , de , Phil . , 50 Broke , atte , Sim . , 192 Broke , de , Hen . , 275 See also Broc 


 
 
 Brokedissh , de , Steph . , 404 


 Brokesheved , de , Luke , 107 ; Walter , 


 
 
 Brokesheved . See Broxted Brom [ Brome ] , de , family , 2 , 433 ; Agnes , 124 ; Joscelin , 124 ; Mar gery , 124 ; Pernel , 125 , 434 ; Petronilla , 124 , 434 ; Ric . , 124 ; Rob . , 124 ; Rog . , 14 , 124-125 , 433-434 ; Sir Rog . , 124 ; Will . , 124 , 434 


 Bromholm , Norf . , priory , 336 , 424 Bromhurst , Suss . , 70 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 Bromley , 10 


 Bromley , Great , Essex , 289 , 290 Bromore , de , Rob . , 60 


 
 
 Bromsmythe , Kent , manor , 185 Brooke , Norf . , 136 


 Broom , Beds . , 250 


 Broome , Norf . , 2 , 123–125 , 338 Broomfield [ Brumfeld ] , de , Mirabilis , 252 


 
 
 Broomfield , Essex , 252 ; manor , 214 Broomhill , Suss . , 376 


 
 
 Brothercross , Norf . , hund . , 427 Brotherton , de , Alice , 344 ; Mary , 344 ; Tho . , 344 


 ' Brotherton , de . ' See Plantagenet Broughton , Bucks . , 415 


 Poggs [ Pogis ] , Oxon . , 238 , 239 ; 


 
 
 manor , 241 


 Broxted , Essex , 203 , 206 , 271 Bruis , de , Isabel , 18 


 Brumstead , Norf . , 108 , 144 ; church , 


 
 
 104 


 Brumustier , de , Hodus , 422 Brun , le , family , 164 ; Graland , 186 ; Jo . , 186 , 383 ; Jordan , 186 , 219 ; Matilda , 117 ; Muriel , 186 ; Phil . , 186 ; Reg . , 8 , 117-118 , 335 , 385 ; Sir Rog . , 109 ; Tho . , 186 ; Will . , 386 Brundon , Essex , 296 , 402–405 Bruneam . See Burnham 


 
 
 Brunford , de , Amy , 202 ; Geoff . , 202 Brunham , de , Emma , 118 ; Phil . , 332 Brunham , Cambs . , church , 437 


 
 
 $ 


 
 
 f 


 
 
 Brunnemuth , ' Norf . , port , 125 , 390 


 Brunnes buri , ' Suss . , 30 


 
 
 Brunswen , 309 


 Brunton , de , Edm . , 136 


 Brunus . See Jews 


 
 
 Brus , de , Isabel , 215 ; Rob . , 172 Brushing , Kent , 183 , 185 Bruwes , de , Sir John , 25 Bucheam , de , Ralph , 8 , 131 , Buci [ Boceo , Boucy , Buscy , Busey , Bussey ] , de , family , 296 , 351–352 ; Agnes , 352 ; Barthol . , 405 ; Bea trice , 405 ; Hen . , 352 ; Hugh , 72 , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 472] ===
 
 
 456 INDEX 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 351-352 ; Joan , 352 ; Jo . , 351 ; Landric , 351 ; Lucy , 352 ; Ralph , 351 ; Rob . , 351-352 ; Sibil , 352 ; Will . , 305 , 352 , 405 Buckenham , Norf . , 13 , 123 , 385 , 387 , 388 ; abbey , 103 ; canons , 121 ; castle , 14 , 119 , 124 , 387 ; church , 13 , 135 , 386 ; fee , 102 ; honor , 2 , 3 , 15 , 122 , 124 , 434 ; manor , 4 , 14 , 127 , 384 ; monastery , 133 ; priory , 7 , 8 , 116-117 , 129–131 , 138 , 153 ; tournament , 15 ; vicarage , 6 


 Ferye , ' Norf . , 109 , 132 Little , Norf . , 389 


 New , Norf . , castle , 8 


 Old , Norf . , 132 , 326 ; manor , 8 , 148 , 202 


 Buckhill , Little , Bucks . , 319 Buckland , Kent , 3 , 161–163 Buckland Denham [ ' Dinant ' ] , Som . , 


 99 


 
 
 Buddington [ Budinton ] , de , Hugh , 25 Buddington , Suss . , 20 , 24 , 62 , 63 in Fernhurst , Suss . , 25 Budeketon [ Bodeketon , Bodiketon , Boudeketon ] , de , family , 1 ; Gilb . , 20 , 27 ; Law . , 27 ; Will . , 51 


 27 , 


 
 
 See Bodeketon Budicurt , de , Ric . , 105 Budna [ ' Budenho ' ] , Beds . , 219 , 281 , 284 


 Budney , Norf . , 434 


 
 
 Bugkenden , Kent , 31 Bugkinden , ' Kent , 182 


 Bukenham [ Bokenham , Buckenham ] , de , family , 3 , 131 ; Hugh , 118 , 132 , 143 , 145 ; Margery , 144 ; Pet . , 109 , 132 ; Ralph , 131 , 132 ; Rob . , 132 , 145 ; Will . , 119 , 131-132 , 386 Bulkestrode , de , Hen . , 75 ; Matilda , 


 
 
 75 


 Bulmer [ Bulemer , Bulmere ] , de , family , 142 ; Alice , 143 ; Clemen tia , 143 ; Jo . , 142-143 ; Sir Jo . , 143 ; Ralph , 143 ; Ric . , 143 ; dame Theophania , 143 


 Bulsham , de , Jo . , 51 ; Rog . , 51 ; Will . , 51 


 Bulton in Donesmor . ' 


 See Bilton , 


 
 
 Warws . 


 Bumpstead , Essex , 400 , 401 Bumstede [ Bomsted , Bumpsted , Bumsted , Bumsted Steeple ] , de , family , 296 ; Geoff . , 401 ; Gerard , 400 ; Gilb . , 401-402 ; Joan , 402 ; Jordan , 401 ; Matilda , 401 ; Matt . , 401 ; Pet . , 401 ; Ralph , 401 ; Rob . , 401 ; Rog . , 401 ; Steph . , 401 ; Will . , 401-402 ; Sir Will . , 402 Bungay , nuns of , 116 Bunthe , La , Hants . , 97 Buntinghill , Suss . , hund . , 346 


 
 
 Bunwell , Norf . , 132 , 303 , 385 , 388 ; manor , 388 


 
 
 Burch , Sir Hamon , 443 


 ' Burch . ' See Burpham , Suss . Burchechs , ' Suss . , 52 


 Burcote , N'hants . , 169 Burdeleis [ Burdeleys ] , de , family , 297 , 442 ; Geoff . , 173 ; Hugh , 442 ; Jo . , 172 ; Lauretta , 442 Burehill , de , John , 141 Bures , Essex , 183 


 St. Mary , Suff . , 330 Tany , Essex , manor , 350 ' Bures . ' See Bowers Gifford , Essex Burgamera , 309 


 Burgate , de , Galiena , 196 ; Rob . , 386 Burgelion [ Burgeinuin , Burguinuin ] , de , Hugh , 422 ; Rob . , 319 , 422 Burgh [ Bergh , Burc , Burgo ] , de , family , 165 , 280 ; 296-297 , 420 ; Aveline , 358 ; Beatrice , 323-324 ; Dervorguille , 280 , 291 ; Hawise , 253-254 , 280 , 289–291 ; Hubert , 48 , 114 , 136 , 272 , 280 , 289–290 , 323-324 , 379 , 442 ; Hubert , justiciar , 289 ; Hubert , king's chamberlain , 362 ; Sir Hubert , 289 ; Jo . , 151 , 253-254 , 260 , 280 , 288-289 , 291 , 323-324 ; Sir Jo . , 280 , 290 ; Margery , 280 , 323 ; Margt . , 324 , 362 ; Nesta , 178 , 362– 363 ; Ralph , 424 ; Ric . , 113 , 358 ; Rog . , 424 ; Sibyl , 260 ; Tho . , 178 , 362-363 , 419 , 424 ; Walter , 345 ; Will . , 359 


 Burgh , Norf . , 324 , 346 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 Apton , Norf . , 104 , 108 , 110 next Hingham , Norf . , church , 


 345 


 
 
 South , Norf . , 345 , 346 


 Suff . , 424 , 429 


 Castle , Suff . , 424 


 
 
 by Grundisborough , Suff . , 424 in Lothingland , Suff . , 424 


 Burghersh , de , Hen . , 60 ; Isabel , 60 ; 


 Matilda , 163 ; Steph . , 163 


 
 
 Burham , Kent , manor , 320 


 Buriton , Hants . , 54 


 Burna . ' See Westbourne , Suss . Burnard , Odo , 219 


 Burne , Suss . , manor , 66 


 Burnel , Isabel , 136 ; Pain , 214 , 215 ; Phil . , 136 ; Rob . , 270 Burnham [ Bernham , Brunham ] , de , family , 390-391 ; Adam , 125–126 ; Cecily , 391 ; Emma , 390-391 , 443 ; Francis , 391 ; Hawise , 430 ; Hugh , 389 ; Jo . , 391 ; Phil . , 125–126 , 390-391 , 443 ; Ralph , 125-126 , 390-391 ; Walter , 388 , 390 ; Will . , 126 , 391 Burnham , 6 


 
 
 church , 312 fee , 325 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 473] ===
 
 
 INDEX 457 


 
 
 Burnham , Norf . , 3 , 113-114 , 125–127 , 133 , 141 , 306 , 325-326 , 389-391 ; churches , 389 ; priory , 392 


 Overy , Norf . , 8 , 126 ; church , 


 
 
 125 


 
 
 Sutton , Norf . , 391 , 392 


 Thorpe , Norf . , 141 , 296 , 325-326 , 389-392 , 430 


 
 
 Westgate , Norf . , 133 Burpham [ Bargham ' ] , Suss . , 23 , 32 , 37 , 52 , 71 , 73 , 75 , 82 , 94 ; church , 37 , 39 , 72 , 73 , 313 ; lords of , 75 ; manor , 40 , 72 , 74 Burser , John , 375 Burstow , Surr . , church , 313 Burtoft , de , family , 119 ; Adam , 119 ; Ralph , 120 


 Burton , de , Eleanor , 186 ; Sir Tho . , 187 ; Sir Will . , 186 


 Burton , Salop , 46 Burton [ Bodecton , ' ' Budiktun ' ] , Suss . , 1 , 17 , 20 , 27 ; church , 27 , 91 West , Notts . , church , 413 Bury , Suss . , 47 Bury St. Edmund's , 


 360 , 424 ; 


 
 
 abbot , 149 Buryhurst , Suss . , 62 Burys Hall , in Hillington , Norf . , 443 Buscote , Berks . , 136 


 Buscy [ Busey , Bussey ] , de . See Buci 


 Bushmead , prior , 255 ; priory , 250 , 


 251 


 
 
 Buslingthorpe , Lincs . , 439 


 Buteaute , Rog . , 142 


 
 
 Butery , Will . , 29 


 Buteswell [ Butheswell ] , Suss . , mill , 24 , 66 


 Butler . See Boteler , le Butler , king's , IOI 


 Buutorp , de , Cecily , 137 


 Bygot . See Bigod 


 
 
 Bygrave , Herts . , 198-199 ; church , 


 198 


 Bykewell , Suss . , manor , 87 Bylaugh , Norf . , 330 Bysse , atte , Lora , 20 


 de la , John , 383 


 Bytham [ Biham , Byham ] Castle , Lincs . , 405-406 , 441 ; manor , 406 ; scutage , 204 , 239 


 
 
 Cailli [ Caili , Caillei , Cailly , Cally , Caly , Cayly , Kaili , Kailli , Kaylli , Kaylly ] , de , family , 296 ; Adam , 106 , 306 , 328 , 335 , 383-384 , 403 ; Alice , 383 ; Basilia , 148 ; Beatrice , 383 ; Edm . , 384 ; Emma , 384 ; Hen . , 148 ; Isabel , 206 ; Joan , 384 ; Jo . , 383 ; Jordan , 383 ; Mabel , 106 , 383 ; Margery , 383 ; Margt . , 384 ; Mich . , 384 ; Osbert , 299 , 382-383 ; Sir Osbert , 383-384 ; Ralph , 382 ; Rog . , 383 ; Sim . , 383 ; Tho . , 51 , 75 , 88–89 , 108 , 129– 131 , 384 ; Walter , 383 ; Will . , 300 , 309 , 382–383 , 384 n . Cailly in Normandy , honor , 382 Cainell , nr . Rome , 13 


 Cainhoe , Beds . , 155 , 172 , 218 , 258 ; barony , 156 ; fee , 267 ; honor , 156 , 217 


 Caisneio [ Caisneto ] , de . See Chesney Caister , Norf . , 421 , 422 Calais , 60 , 330 


 Caldecote , Great and Little , Beds . , 219 


 Caldecote ( in Northill ) , Beds . , 265 Caldwell , prior , 253–256 , 267 ; priory , 165 , 267-268 


 
 
 CADE , family , 165 ; Arnulf , 293 ; Ernaud , 293 ; Eustace , 293 ; Will . , 293 


 Cadebury [ Catbury ] , Beds . , 251 , 256 ; manor , 263 , 264 


 Cadewell , de , Osbert , 428 ; Ric . , 428 Cadwell in Tathwell , Lincs . , 428 Cadworth , Wilts . , 50 


 Caen , 66 , 200 ; abbess , 390 Cahainges , de , Will . , 353 


 See Keynes 


 
 
 Calke , canons of , 253 


 Calthorpe [ Calethorp , Caletorp , Cal torp ] , de , family , 3 , 296 ; Barthol . , 136 ; Cecily , 391 ; Isabel , 392 Jo . , 392 ; Reg . , 136 ; Ric . , 136 ; Walter , 118 , 136–137 , 319 , 395 , 432 Sir Walter , 137 , 374 , 392 , 436 Will . , 126-127 , 134 , 137 , 391–392 ; Sir Will . , 136 , 392 


 fee , 325 


 Calthorpe , Norf . , 432-433 


 Calverton , Notts . , 53 Calz . See Cauz 


 
 
 &gt; 


 
 
 · 


 
 
 Cambray [ Cambrai , Cumbrai ] , de , family , 2 ; John , 352 ; Ralph , 77 See Cumbray 


 Cambridge , 100 , 364 ; tournament , 215 , 255 


 Cambrun , de , Alice , 277 ; Walter , 277 Camel , Som . , honor , 272 ; manor , 280 Camelton . ' See Campton , Beds . Camera , de , Ralph , 62 , 317 Camoys [ Cameys ] , Hugh , 341 ; Jo . , 25 , 86 , 93 , 340 , 400 ; Sir Jo . , S6 , 435 ; Margt . , 86 , 93 , 340 , 400 ; Ralph , 340 ; Sir Ralph , 92 Campellis , de , Rob . , 60 ; Tho . , 60 Campesse , nuns of , 118 Campsey Ash [ Campesse ] , Suff . , nuns of , 118 , 386 ; prioresses — 187 , 386 ; Agnes , 186 ; Joan , 428 , 430 Campton , Beds . , 62 , 173 , 227-230 , 232 , 236 ; manor , 170-171 , 232 Camvill [ Camvile ] , de , Gerard , 56 , 283 ; Nicholaa , 56 , 283 ; Tho . , 56 , 


 221 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 474] ===
 
 
 458 INDEX 


 
 
 Cancellis , de , Andrew , 235 Candidus , Hugh , 410 


 Candos , de , Ascelina , 389 ; Hawise , 389 ; Hugh , 389 .; Juliana , 389 ; Maheu , 103 ; Matt . , 104 Candover [ ' Candewra ' ] , Hants . , 9 , 88 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 Caneregge , ' 311 


 Canfield , Little , Essex , 342 , 370 , 373-375 ; church , 310-311 , 371–372 Cangham , de , Angot , 129 ; Augustine , 


 395 ; Geoff . , 129 ; Ralph , 129 ; Rog . , 129 ; Will . , 398 ; Will . , priest , 129 Canning , de , Ric . , 257 n .; Roese , 257 n . 


 
 
 Cantelupe [ Cantilupo ] , de , family , 


 165 ; of Eaton Bray , Beds . , 261 ; Agnes , 260 ; Millesent , 422 ; Rog . , 260 ; Walter , 142 ; Will . , 142 , 160 , 262 , 283 , 422 Canterbury , 194 ; cathedral , 51 


 archbishops - 20 , 23 , 49 , 58 , 155 , 162-163 , 194-195 , 331 , 356 , 365 ; Boniface , 196 ; Hubert Walter , 21 , 28 , 29 , 67 , 135 , 362 , 386 , 390 ; Ralph , 37 , 334 , 437 ; Rob . , 161 ; Sir Rob . , 162 ; Steph . de Langeton , 266 ; Theobald , 103 , 393 


 Holy Trinity , John , prior , 160 , 


 
 
 162 


 St. Augustine , abbey , 185 ; abbot , 195-196 


 
 
 Cantis , in Horndon - on - the - Hill , 106 Cantley , Norf . , 422 


 
 
 Capel , Hugh , 13 


 Capella , de , Barthol . , 328 


 Capran , Mich . , 397 


 Caprevill [ Capravilla ] , de , Isabel , 


 425 ; Walter , 425 


 Carbrook , Norf . , 107 ; Great , 109 


 
 
 Cardun , Geoff . , 245 


 Carenci , de , Ilbert , 285 , 286 


 
 
 &lt; 


 
 
 Careslei , ' Surr . , 313 


 Carey [ Kari ] , de , Alice , 81 Carisbrooke , honor , 241 Carle , Rob . , 329 


 Carlisle , 32 


 Carlton , 309 


 
 
 Beds . , 217 , 218 


 Cambs . , 155 , 297 , 437 Norf . , 152 


 
 
 Forehoe , Norf . , 143 , 145 Rode , Norf . , 132 


 Scroop , Lincs . , 297 , 416-417 , 


 
 
 418 ; Hugh , parson , 417 Carrow , Magdalen , prioress of , 138 ; nuns , 318 


 Cartworth , Yorks . , 441 Carun [ Caron , Caronn , Caroun , Karon , Karun ] , de , family , 165 ; Adeliza , 258 ; Agnes , 260 ; Amice , 258-259 ; Beatrice , 259 ; Eliz . , 259 ; Emma , 258 ; Flandrina , 259 ; 


 
 
 Hugh , 258-259 , 261 ; Joan , 260 ; Jo . , 258-259 , 365 ; Juliana , 258 ; Lucy , 259-260 ; Margery , 259 , 261 ; Martin , 259 ; Matilda , 258-259 ; Miles , 259 ; Osbert , 255 ; Ralph , 258 ; Ranulf , 258-259 ; Ric . , 258 Rob . , 167 , 258-260 ; Rog . , 260 Sibyl , 260 ; Tho . , 259-260 ; Walter , 255 , 258-259 ; Will . , 258-261 Casingehan , de , Will . , 293 Castellan , Joscelin . See Joscelin Castello , de , Nich . , 181 , 388 Casterton , Little , Rutl . , 281 , 284 Castleacre , Norf . , 297-298 , 395–396 , 424-425 ; castle , 307-308 ; honor of Warenne , 296-443 ; manor , 384 , 400 , 427 , 433 ; monks , 299 , 372 , 424 , 443 ; prior , 373-374 , 399 , 425 ; priory , 56 , 112 , 332 , 360–361 , 364 , 371 , 381-382 , 385 , 389 , 390 , 396 397 , 425 , 437 


 ' le Cherville , ' 399 Castle Bainard , London , 397 Baynard , honor , 401 Biham , Castle 


 
 
 Lincs . See Bytham 


 
 
 Richard , 36 


 Rising , Norf . , 8 , 9 , 116 , 124 , 132 , 385 , 428 ; manor , 4 , 154 See Rising 


 Caston [ Castune , Catestun ] , de Jo . , 326 ; Rob . , 325 , 388 ; Will . , 325 Caston , Norf . , 299 , 311 , 322 , 325–326 , 385 , 389 ; manor , 325-326 Catbury . See Cadebury Caterham , 309 


 Catestun . See Caston 


 
 
 Catfield , Norf . , 104 , 108 ; church , 104 Catherington , Hants . , 2 , 77 , 78 , 347 in Chalton , Hants . , 79 , 80 next Blendworth , Hants . , 94 Catton , Norf . , 278 


 
 
 Yorks . , 18 


 Causton , de , Will . , 346 Caux , bailiff of , 413 


 Cauz [ Calz , de Calceo ] , de , family , I , 47 ; Agnes , 48 ; Godfrey , 48 ; Hugh , 48 ; Muriel , 48 ; Ric . , 206 ; Rob . , 7 , 48 ; Rog . , 206 Caversfield [ Caversfeld , Kaveresfeld ] , de , Hugh , 411 ; Rog . , 411 ; Sibyl , 411-412 ; dame Sibyl , 410 Caversfield [ Kaveresfeud ] , 


 Bucks . , 297 , 308 n . , 410-413 , 415 ; Guy , parson , 410 


 Caxton , Cambs . , manor , 295 Caythorpe , Notts . , Cedrefeld . See Cheddarfield Celle , prioress of , 354 


 Ceptune . ' See Chalton Ceridone , de , Walerand , 196 Cernes [ Cerne , Chernes , Sernys ] , de , Amice , 259 ; Jo . , 260 ; Nich . , 254 , 259-260 , 267 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 475] ===
 
 
 INDEX 459 


 
 
 Cerney Wike [ ' Cernawic ' ] , Gloucs . , 170 


 Cestre [ Cestria ] , de , Agnes , 48 ; Geoff . , 113 , 279 ; Humph . , 113 ; Isabel , 279 ; Ric . , 48 Cestrewald , Kent , wood , 194 Chaceporc , Peter , 213 


 Chaddenwick , Wilts . , manor , 272 Chadlington [ Chadelinton ] , de , Herb . , 


 243 


 Chadlington , Oxon . , 165 , 242–244 Wahull , Oxon . , manor , 244 Chagele , de , Wlsi , 311 Chaggely , de , Alice , 82 ; Jo . , 82 Chailey , Suss . , 300 , 319 , 337 , 382 ; church , 338 ; manor , 336 Chalford , Oxon . , 229 


 Chalk , Kent , 165 , 167 , 287-288 , 289 ; manor , 168 , 289 , 291 East , Kent , 290 


 Chalneye , Suss . , 89 Chalton , de , Will . , 54 , 264 Chalton , Hants . , manor , 4 , 77 , 79 Chamberlain [ Chaumberleyn ] , Lora , 27 ; Steph . le , 27 


 Chamberlain . See Adelold ; Ansgot ; 


 Burgh , de ; Cormeilles , de ; Fitz Gerold ; Herbert ; John ; L'Isle , de ; Richard ; Roald ; Roald ; Talbot ; Turpin ; Warin ; William Chamberlaincy at the Exchequer , 171 , 187 , 224 


 
 
 Champaygne , John , 192 


 Changeton , de , Andrew , 352 ; Sibil , 


 
 
 352 


 Chantour , le , Ralph , 127 Chapmans - Combe , Som . , 379 


 
 
 Chardwell manor , in Arkesden , Essex , 


 406 


 Charing , 184 


 Charles , of Loddon , family , 116 ; Edm . , 117 ; Edw . , 117 ; Will . , 117 ; Sir Will . , 117 . Charlton , Hants . , 346 


 
 
 N'hants . , 227 


 by Sutton Valence , Kent , 183 , 185 


 Charneles , de , Geo . , 59 


 Chart , East , Kent , 165 , 287 Chateringeton . ' 


 
 
 C 


 
 
 See Catherington , 


 
 
 Hants . 


 Chatham , Essex , 252 


 
 
 Chattegrove , de , Herbert , 302 Chatteris , abbess of , 270 Chauncels , de , Giles , 60 Chausi [ Chausy ] , de , Geoff . , 423 ; Jo . , 423 


 Chauton , de , Adam , 251 Chauvent [ Champvent , Chaumpvent , Chavent ] , de , family , 1 , 2 ; Agnes , 45 ; Eva , 100 ; Jo . , 45 , 100 ; Pet . , 45 , 100 Chaworth , family , 297 ; Gundreda , 414 ; Isabel , 414 ; Matilda , 414 ; 


 
 
 Pain , 414 ; Sir Pain , 241 ; Pat . , 240 , 414 


 Chawston ( in Roxton ) , Beds . , 165 , 248 , 255 , 267 


 Chawton , Hants . , 58 ; manor , 58 


 Chedburgh , Suff . , 361 


 Cheddarfield , Soms . , 42 


 Chedny , de , Gregory , 75 ; Isabel , 75 ; Mabel , 75 ; Matilda , 75 See Cheney and Chesney Chelesherste , ' Kent , 184 Chellaston , Derbys . , 253 Chellesfeud , de , Gilb . , 52 Chelmsford , 294 ; forest , 289 Chelsfield , Kent , rector of , 196 Chelsworth , Suff . , 165 , 268-269 , 273 Chenemondewiche . See Kinwick 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 Field , Beds . 


 Cheney [ Chenei , Chennay , Chenny , Cheyney ] , de , family , 347 ; Barthol . , 347 , 348 ; Hugh , 25 ; Isabel , 75 ; Nich . , 75 ; Will . , 59 , 60 


 
 
 See Chesney Chepstow , lord of , 209 Chequers [ de Scaccario ] , de , Hen . , 171 ; Pernel , 171 


 Cherbourg , St. Mary's , Durant , abbot of , 417 


 Cherebrok , de , John , 336 


 Cheresburgh [ Cheresburc , de Caesaris burgo ] , family , 157 ; Pet . , 157 ; Wigein , 157 


 Cherleton , de , James , 183 ; Walter , 44 Chernes , de . See Cernes Chertsand ( ? near Polstead ) , 69 Chertsey , abbey , 24 ; abbot , 89 Chervill [ Chefrevill , Cherevill , Chevrevill , Chrevill , Karevill ] , de , family , 297 ; Alice , 425 ; Fretheric , 425 ; Phil . , 425 ; Reg . , 425 ; Rob . , 155 , 425 ; Rog . , 425 ; Sim . , 425 ; Walter , 425 ; Will . , 425 Chesfield , Kent , chapel , 293 ; church , 294 


 Cheshall , Great , Essex , 164 Chesham , Bucks . , 278 


 
 
 Chesney [ Caisneto , Chaisnei , Chais neto , Chesnei , Chesny , Kaineto , Kauneto , Kayneto , Kaysneto , Keidneto ] , de , family , 1 , 2 , 62 , 63 , 164 , 227-231 , 239-240 , 296 , 314 ; Albreda , 317 ; Alice [ Aeliza ] , 62 , 227-229 , 234 , 238 , 314 , 318 ; dame Alice , 63 ; Barthol . , 349 ; Basilia , 315 ; Beatrice , 63 , 227-230 , 232 , 238 ; Clemency , 314 , 316–317 , 321 ; Dionisia , 62 , 63 , 227-229 ; Drew , 314 , 315 ; Emma , 314 , 316 , 320 ; Hawise , 227 , 229-230 , 234 ; Hugh , 17 , 52 , 62 , 63 , 227-230 , 238 , 315 ; Isabella , 348 ; Joan , 348 ; John , 314-316 , 318-320 ; Lucy , 63 , 228 , 230 ; Margaret [ Margery ] , 314 , 316– 318 ; Matilda , 119 , 169 , 227-231 , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 476] ===
 
 
 460 INDEX 


 
 
 234 , 238 , 314 ; Matt . , 315 , 316 ; Pet . , 315 ; Phil . , 317 ; Ralph , 61-63 , 227-230 , 235 , 300 , 310 , 312-316 , 320 , 438 ; Ranulf , 299 ; Ric . , 67 Rob . , 227 , 229 , 234 , 314-316 ; Rog . , 10 , 62 , 227-229 , 234 , 237 , 313 ; Sarra , 314 , 316 , 317 , 321 ; Sibyl , 314-316 , 319 ; dame Sibyl , 316 ; Walter , 235 ; Will . , 24 , 27 , 62 , 66 , 119 , 227-230 , 232 , 234 , 314-318 , 321. See Chedny and Cheney Chesney , fee , 315 


 Chessington , Surr . , 22 Chester , 15 ; abbey ( St. Werburgh's ) , 213 ; fee , 42 , 79 , 205 , 206 , 239 , 250 , 286 ; honor , 140 , 249 ; justice , 76 , 373 ; steward , 15 Chester , earls - 14 , 53 , 152 , 249 ; Gherbod the Fleming , 298 ; Hugh , 77 ; Ranulf I , 77 ; Ranulf III , 13 , 14 Chesterford , Little , Essex , 366 Chetton , Salop , 69 


 Chetwood [ Chetwde ] , de , Ralph , 412 Chevre , Hamon , 397 


 
 
 Chevrevill . See Chervill 


 Chewton , barony , 248 


 Cheym , de , Barthol . , 74 Chiche , Essex , 167 


 
 
 Chichester , 4 , 41 , 45 , 57 , 66 , 69 , 76 , 83 , 88 , 90 , 332 


 bishopric , 9 , 98 , 311 


 bishops - 14 , 47 , 53 , 61 , 75 , 81 , 84 , 331-332 ; Hilary , 30 ; Ralph , 41 , 48 , 71 , 253 , 311-313 ; Ralph II , 69 ; Ranulf , 153 ; Seifrid I , 351 ; Seifrid II , 351 ; Sim . , 353 


 
 
 castle , II ; cathedral , 50 ; churches , 7 , 20 , 25 , 72–73 , 83 ; dean and chapter , 354 ; prebendary , 98 


 Will . de Aubigny II , earl , 7 ; Will . , earl , 33 , 49 , 72 , 101 , 103 , 116 , 117 , 130-131 , 133 , 138 , 300 


 See also Aubigny , de Chicksand [ Chikesand ] , Beds . , 266 ; prior , 264 ; priory , 280 Chidgrave , Norf . , manor , 433 Chidham , Suss . , 43 , 44 , 74 , 75 Chienewe , Will . , 6 


 
 
 Chieresburh , de , Ralph , sewer , 158 Chigwell , Essex , 200 ; manor , 206 Child [ Chyld ] , family , 2 ; John , 88 , 265 ; Tho . , 88 


 
 
 Childerditch , Essex , 164 , 202–206 Childerley , de , Hen . , 208 Childerston , Kent , manor , 85 Child's Ercall . See Ercall , Salop Chilgrove , Suss . , 2 , 87-88 Chillingham , Kent , 194 Chilson , Oxon . , 208 


 
 
 Chilteston , ' Kent , 86 Chilting , Suss . , 79 Chiltington , Suss . , 23 , 324 ; church , 


 36 


 East , 322 , 331 


 
 
 Chilton , Wilts . , 234-236 ; lord of , 237 ; manor , 236 


 Chilworth , Hants . , church , 157 Chimela . See Keymer 


 
 
 Chingeston . See Kingston by Lewes , Suss . 


 
 
 Chinon , 318 ; constable , 63 Chinting Chintinges ' ] , Suss . , 79 , 80 ; manor , 80 


 
 
 Chipping Campden , Gloucs . , 42 Chishall , Great , Essex , 187 , 189-190 Chishell [ Chissehill ] , family , 164 ; Jo . , 190 ; Tho . , 190 ; Will . , 190 Chislet [ ' Chistel ' ] , Kent , 162 Chithurst , de , Morin , 52 Chithurst , Suss . , 1 , 52 , 83 , 86 Chobham , Surr . , 24 


 Chokes , fee , 364 ; honor , 283 Cholington , 353. See Easthall in Eastbourne 


 
 
 Christ Church , manor , 232 See Deddington , Oxon . 


 Christian usurer , ' 293 Churton , Wilts . , 87 


 Chykeswell ( in Brenchley ) , Kent , 


 86 


 Chykewell . See Ickwell , Beds 


 Cicestre , de , James , 58 Cirencester , abbot of , 79 , 412 Cirnindewyk . See Kinwick , de Cissoch , ' 73 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 Clae , honor , 110 


 Clair - Ruissel ( Seine Inf . ) , nunnery , 


 
 
 421 


 Clairvaux , de , Pain , 6 


 Clapham , 232 


 
 
 Surr . , 94 


 Suss . , 31 , 37 


 Clapton , Cambs . , 164 , 207-209 Clare [ Clara ] , de , family , 1 ; Adeliza , 


 220 ; Baldwin , 220 ; earl , 243 ; Gilb . , 55 , 220 , 243 , 329 , 409 ; Gilb . , count , 220 ; Matilda , 50 , 242-243 ; Ric . , 55 , 127 , 220 , 243 ; Rog . , 50 , 242 , 313 ; Rohaise , 220 ; Will . , 55 


 
 
 See Gloucester and Hereford court of , 129 ; fee , 151 ; honor , 108-109 , 134 , 152 , 242 , 317 , 400 Clavering , de , John , 109 


 
 
 See Fitz - Roger Claxton , Norf . , 102 , 109 Claydon , Suff . , hund . , 204 Clayton , Suss . , 339 ; church , 309 ; lady of , 378 ; manor , 307 Clayton , Yorks . , 420 


 Cleley , N'hants . , hund . , 379 , 380 Clench , Mich . , 402 ; Sir Tho . , 402 Clenchwarton , Norf . , 320 , 425 ; 


 church , 426 


 
 
 Clere , de , family , 296 , 297 , 355 , 438 ; Agatha , 357 , 438-439 ; Ha wise [ Helewise ] , 355 ; Mabel , 356 ; Margt . , 348 ; Matilda , 356-357 , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 477] ===
 
 
 INDEX 461 


 
 
 439-440 ; Ralph , 335 , 348-349 , 355-357 , 359 n . , 438 ; Rog . , 315 , 355-358 , 368 , 438–440 ; Will . , 359 n . Clere . See Shyre Clerkenwell , nuns of , 175 Clerks , Italian and Roman , 324 Cley , Norf . , 105 , 384 Cleydon , de , John , 207 


 Cleye , atte , Will . , 60 Cliffe , Kent , 183 , 184 Clifford , de , Isabel , 358 ; Matilda , 423 , 440 ; Rob . , 358 ; Rog . , 423 ; Sir Rog . , 77 , 423 ; Walter , 440 ; Will . , king's clerk , 256 Clifton [ Clyfton ] , de , Adam , 121 , 131 , 384 ; Clementia , 143 ; Sir Ger vase , 143 ; Lucy , 52 ; Olimpiada , 266-267 ; Reg . , 52 ; Rob . , 266 ; Rog . , 384 Clifton , Beds . , 165 , 258–259 , 261 ; church , 267 ; lady of , 255 


 in Deddington , Oxon . , 232 , 233 n .; mill , 230-231 , 239 Climping , Suss . , 2 , 65-67 , 89 , 90 ; church and manor , 90 Clinton [ Clynton ] , de , Geoff . , 258 , 364 ; Hen . , 364 ; Juliana , 157 , 161 , 185 ; Will . , 157 , 161 , 185 , 335 


 See Huntingdon Clipston , Norf . , 325 , 326 , 391-392 , 402 , 404 


 Clitheroe [ Cliderhowe , Clyderhowe ] , de , Hugh , 209 ; Sir Hugh , 209 Clohale [ Clothale ] , de , Adam , 43 ; Christiana , 43 


 
 
 Clopton , de , Alice , 404 ; Walter , 319 ; Will . , 404 


 Clopton , Suff . , 334 , 375 , 381 , 438 ; manor , 440 


 
 
 Clovill , de , Will . , 183 


 Clun , Salop , 76 


 Cluny , abbey , 23 , 312 ; abbot , 73 , 437 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 St. Olave's , prior , 120 


 
 
 Cnocke , ' Kent , 158 


 
 
 Cnot , Walter , 147 Cnot . See Noth Coates , Suss . , 20 , 23 , 36 Cobham [ Cobbeham , Cobeham ] , de , Hawise , 192 ; Hen . , 192 , 197 , 236 ; Jo . , 192 , 198 ; Sir Jo . , 197 , 199 ; Steph . , 197 ; Tho . , 197 Cockfield , Durham , 365 


 
 
 · 


 
 
 Suff . , 363 , 365 ; manor , 307 , 362 , 363 


 Berard , Suff . , 359 


 Cocking , Suss . , I , II , 16 , 19 , 20 , 21-23 , 27 ; church , 12 , 20 ; manor , 22 , 23 


 Cockley Cley , Norf . , 104 , 1OS 


 
 
 Cockthorpe , Norf . , 151 , 152 


 Cocleswrda . ' See Chelsworth , Suff . Coddenham , Suff . , 213 


 Codelawe . See Cudlow , Suss . 


 
 
 Codington , de , Peter , 22 Coffin , Hugh , 162 ; Ric . , 162 Coggeshale , de , Tho . , 216 Coggeshall , Ralph , abbot of , 197 Coin , clipped , 278 Cokefeld [ Cokefelt , Cuckefeld , Cukes feld , Kokefeld ] , de , family , 296 , 359 , 360 ; of Cockfield , 360-361 ; of Feltwell , 360 ; Adam , III , 115 , 328 , 336 , 345 , 360-366 ; Adeliza , 359 , 360 ; dame Adelizia , 360 ; Aeliza , 361 , 363 ; Agatha , III , 365 ; Alan , 360 ; Alice , 361 , 365– 366 ; Ascelina , 72 ; Berard , 359 , 360 ; Cecily , 374 ; Denise , 361 Eudo , 361 ; Hen . , 363 ; Hugh , 361 ; Isabel , 179 , 365-366 ; Joan , 366– 367 ; Jo . , 72 , III , 329 , 366 , 374 ; Lucy , 345 , 363-365 ; Margt . , 362 Nesta , 178 , 215 , 363 , 365 , 428 ; Odo , 361 ; Osbert , 365 ; Philippa , 363 ; Rob . , 305 , 328 , 345 , 360-365 , 373 ; Rob . , chivaler , 367 ; lady Rohais , 360 ; Rohaise , 362-363 ; Sabina , 361 ; Sim . , 361 , 365 ; Walter , 179 


 Cokefeld Hall , in East Tudenham , Norf . , 367 


 Cokeham , Suss . , manor , 92 Coking , de , John , 26 Colchester , 155 , 166 , 168 , 200-201 , 204 


 
 
 abbey ( St. John Baptist ) , 165 , 166 , 175 , 181 , 190-191 , 193 , 197 , 210 , 213 , 217 , 220 , 225 , 258 , 268 269 , 271-272 , 275 , 281 , 285 , 287 288 , 291 


 
 
 abbots - 175 , 221-222 ; Adam , 197 , 288 ; Hugh , 220 ; Walter , 191 , 200 


 castle , 162 , 167 , 204 , 289 fee , 227 


 honor of Eudes the Sewer , 164-295 


 
 
 monastery , 155 , 167 , 174 , 248 , 276 ; monks , 175 , 178 , 190 , 193 , 250 , 273 


 priory of St. Botolph , 210 priors - 286 ; Hasculf , 213 ; 


 Hen . , 193 , 197 


 Ric . , archdeacon of , 211 , 407 Coldbridge , Kent , manor , 185 Colesdene , de , Will . , 267 


 Colesdon ( in Roxton ) , Beds . , 267 ; fee , 268 


 
 
 Coleston , Suff . , 363 Colevill [ Colvill ] , de , family , _297 ; Beatrice , 405 ; Cecily , 406 ; Edm . , 406 ; Geoff . , 60 ; Joan , 257 ; Margery , 441 ; Margt . , 406 ; Rob . , 406 ; Rog . , 284 , 306 , 405-406 , 441 ; Walter , 406 ; Sir Walter , 284 ; Will . , 283 , 405-406 ; Sir Will . , 


 257 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 478] ===
 
 
 462 INDEX 


 
 
 Coleworth , de , Eliz . , 409 , 410 ; Erneburga , 410 ; Hugh , 409 , 410 ; Ric . , 410 


 Colne , Essex , 213 , 426 


 
 
 priors - 214 ; Hugh , 175 


 
 
 Engaine , Essex , manor , 321 White , Essex . See White Colne Colney , Norf . , 109 Coltishall , Norf . , 327-330 Colum , Suff . , 317 , 318 Columbels , de , Ranulf , 292 Columbers , de , Phil . , 191 ; Rob . , 171 Colyton , Devon , 38 , 39 Combe [ Cumba ] , de , family , 341 ; Edm . , 346 ; Osbert , 341 ; Ric . , 341 


 
 
 See also Cumbe Combe , Devon , 376 


 Monceaux , Devon , 377 Combemartyn [ Coumbemartyn ] , de , family , 297 ; Adam , 414 ; Will . , 


 
 
 414 


 Comberton , Cambs . , manor , 274 Combrai , de . See Cumbray Combray , in Calvados , 78 


 Conibs , Suff . , 428-429 ; manor , 429 Compton , II ; church , 313 Compton , Hants . , 377 


 Monceus , ' ' Monceux , ' Hants . , 


 
 
 376-378 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 Surr . , church , 56 


 Suss . , 55 , 59 


 Durville , Som . , 264 


 
 
 West , Berks . , 203 , 205 


 Comyn [ Cumin , Cumyn ] , family , 2 ; David , 121 , 403 ; Edw . , 405 ; Eliz . , Joan , 279 ; 


 
 
 402 , 412 , 430 , 433 ; Jo . , 279 ; Will . , 121 


 Conan , knight , 76 Congeham , de , Geoff . , 396 Congham [ Cungheam ] , Norf . , 3 , 6 , 


 126 , 129-130 , 148 , 297 , 309 , 395 396 , 398-399 , 434-435 , 443 Conicistre , ' Suss . , 327 Conisborough , Yorks . , 417 , 418 n . , 419 ; castle and manor , 306–308 , 420 ; church , 312 


 Constable , le , Alice , 366 ; Geoff . , 366-367 ; Isabel , 366 


 Cooling by Rochester , 164 , 190–192 Cootham , Suss . , 40 


 Corbelin ( of Petworth ) , 1 , 17 , 24 Corbet , family , 372 ; dame Edelina , 64 ; Rob . , 80 , 374 Corbuchiun , 9 


 
 
 Corbun , de , Hugh , 121 


 Corby , Lincs . , 64 ; abbot , 346 Corfe , 416 ; castle , 204 


 
 
 Coringehal , Essex , wood , 274 


 Cormeilles , de , Beatrice , 172 ; Ralph , chamberlain , 172 


 
 
 Cornhill , family , 165 ; Alice , 169 ; Gervase , 285 , 286 ; Hen . , 286 ; Joan , 286 ; Reg . , 293 


 
 
 Cornhull , family , 161 ; Gervase , 162 ; Hen . , 161 ; Jo . , 161 ; Margery , 160 ; Reg . , 160–162 Cornwall , earls - 236 , 240 , 256 , 366 ; Ric . , 235 , 439 , 440 Cornwell , Oxon . , 237 , 240 ; church , 237 ; manor , 241 Corpusty , Norf . , 441 Corsford , Suff . , 365 Corton Denham , Som . , 99 Costentin [ Costentein , [ Costentein , Costentyn , Costintin ] , de , family , 3 ; Geoff . , 251 ; Hen . , 268 ; Isabel , 46 ; Jo . , 255 ; Reg . , 255 ; Ric . , 163 , 251 , 264 ; Tho . , 46 Costessey , 437 Costeyn , Will . , 134 Coston , de , Will . , 133 Coston , Norf . , 389 Cosyn , Rog . , 337 


 
 
 Coteham , de , John , 178 


 Cotes , de , Andrew , 17 ; Thurs. , 23 Cotes , Leics . , 149 


 
 
 Norf . , 119 


 Suss . , 19 


 Coton in the Elms , Derbys . , 29 Cottelegh [ Cottele ] , de , Joan , 236 ; Nich . , 236 


 Cottenham , Cambs . , 172 ; manor , 173 Cottingham , Yorks . , 399 


 Couci [ Coucy ] , de , earl Aubrey , 245 ; Milicent , 421 


 Courtenhall , de , Adam , 414 Coutances , 250 ; bishop , 244 , 281 Cove , de , Eva , 120 , 121 , 124 , 126 , 


 
 
 130 , 131 , 137 , 147 ; Jo . , 120-121 , 124 , 126 , 130-131 , 137 , 147 ; Sir Jo . , 404 


 Cove , Suff . , 327 , 329-330 Covehithe , Suff . , 327 , 329 , 333 Coveney , Cambs . , 172 ; lord of , 209 Coveney with Manea , Cambs . , manor , 


 
 
 173 


 Covert , John , 75 


 Cowbridge , Essex , 203 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 Cowdray by Midhurst , Suss . , 92 Cowesby , Yorks . , 396 , 397 , 399 Cowick Bury in Sheering , Essex , 297 , 


 
 
 409-410 


 Cowlam , de , Lecia , 282 Cowton , Yorks . , 104 


 Coxford [ Cocksford ] , Norf . , 320 ; priory , 315-316 , 318 , 320–321 , 443 Coxford , priors — 319 ; Hugh de 


 
 
 Helman , 320 ; Matt . de Chesney , 316 ; canons , 320 , 424 


 Coynte [ Cunte ] , le , Alice , 265 ; Jo . , 80 ; Will . , 265 


 Cradele , ' Suss . , 20 


 
 
 Craft , de , Beatrice , 61 ; Geoff . , 61 ; Rob . , 61 ; Rog . , 57 , 61 


 Crafton , Bucks . , 171 , 297 , 414-415 Crakeford , de , Geoff . , 432 Cramavill , de , John , 363 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 479] ===
 
 
 INDEX 463 


 
 
 Cramele , de , Alan , 242 Cranbrook , Kent , 183 


 Cranewices , de , Pet . , 381 


 Cranwick , Norf . , 382-384 ; manor , 


 384 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 Craudon , ' 311 


 Craunford , de , Rob . , 232-233 , 241 ; 


 Will . , 233 , 241 


 
 
 Craven , Yorks . , 188 


 Crawe , Avice , 442 ; Nich . , 442 Crawford , Great , in 


 Dors . , 165 , 248 Crawley ( in Worth ) , Suss . , 328 , 357 Cray , de , Sim . , 191 


 Cray , North , Kent , manor , 196 


 South or St Paul's , Kent , 164 , 190-192 


 
 
 K 


 
 
 Spettisbury , 


 
 
 Creake , Norf . , 112-114 , 372 


 North , Norf . , 428-430 ; manor , 173 , 442 


 South , Norf . , 8 , 111-115 , 338 , 370 , 373-375 ; church , 112 Crec [ Creike , Crek , Creke ] , de , family , 152 , 297 , 428-430 ; Agnes , 428 , 430 ; Barthol . , 178 , 215 , 362-363 , 394 , 428-430 , 442 ; Sir Barthol . , 316 ; Dionisia , 430 ; Geoff . , 429 ; Hugh , 397 ; Isabel , 428 ; Jas . , 429 ; Joan , 430 ; Jo . , 428-429 , 442 ; Mabel , 430 ; Margery , 428-429 , 442 ; dame Margery , 120 ; Margt . , 428 , 430 ; Pet . , 428 ; Richemay , 428 ; Rob . , 394 , 428-429 ; Sarah [ Sarra ] , 429 , 442 ; Will . , 429 


 Creeton , Lincs . , 283 ; manor , 284 Crekelaw , Kent ( ? ) , 157 n . Creppinges , de , Alan , 372 ; Alice , 336 ; Eliz . , 259 ; Hugh , 409 ; 


 Will . , 259 , 261 , 336 Creppyngefe . See Deopham , Norf . Cressi [ Creissi , Creissy , Cressy ] , de , family , 109 , 296 , 320 ; Berenger , 396 ; Hugh , 184 , 279 , 304 , 314 , 316-317 , 320 , 321 ; Isabel , 279 , 396 ; Jo . , 321 ; Margery , 321 ; dame Margery , 321 ; Margt . , 314 , 316– 318 , 321 ; Rog . , 279 , 304 , 314 , 316– 317 , 320-321 ; Steph . , 279 , 321 ; Will . , 321 


 
 
 ' Cristmelden , ' near Langley , Kent , 


 183 


 Croc , huntsman , 234 


 Croc [ Crok ] , Hen . , 235 , 236 Crockerhill , Suss . , 60 


 
 
 Cressingham , de , John , 443 Crevequer , de , Rob . , 184 , 292 honor , 343 


 Crey , de , Sim . , 192 ; Will . , 192 Crich , Derbys . , barony , 419 ; manor , 419 Cricklade [ Acre de Crichelade ] , Wilts . , 164 , 224 


 Criketot [ Cricetot , Crichetot ] , de , Adeliza , 360 ; Hemfrey , 360–361 ; Will . , 299 , 300 , 373 


 Criksea [ ' Crikes ' ] , Essex , 190 Crioll [ Criol , Cryel , Cryol ] , de , Ber tram , 101 , 160-161 , 330 ; Sim . , 158 Crispin , Miles , 227-228 , 234 


 
 
 Croft , de , Phil . , 50 , 51 


 Croft , Norf . , 320 Croftes , de , Hugh , 51 Crofton , Bucks . , manor , 350 Suss . , 25 


 
 
 Croismere , church , 339 


 Croix St. Leufroy , abbot of , 88 Crowe , Rob . , 325 Crowland , Lincs . , St. Guthlac's , 148 ; abbot , 282 


 Croxton , Cambs . , 25 , 26 


 
 
 Norf . , 325-326 , 336-337 , 389 , 391 , 394 , 404 ; church , 336-337 , 390 ; manor , 327 


 Croydon , Cambs . , 207-209 


 Kent , 192 


 Croyroys [ Croiroys , Crosroys ] . See Royston Cruchestok . ' See Stoke Holy Cross , 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 Norf . 


 Crum . ' See Carun Crundel [ Grundel ] , Ralph , 391 Crungelthorpe [ Crungethorp ] , de , Ric . , 343 ; Will . , 143 , 325 Crusaders , 262 , 278 , 301 , 421 Crython , Norf . , 320 


 Cuckfield , Suss . , 309 , 326 ; church , 311 


 Cudham , Kent , manor , 320 Cudlow , Suss . , 1 , 52-54 


 Cuini , de , Ranulf , 7 ; Will . , 7 , 141 Cuiniis [ Cuneus ' ] , de , Ranulf , 141 Cuinnis , de , Hodierna , 141 ; Ran dulf , 141 


 
 
 Culpho , Suff . , 128 , 129 


 Cumbe , de , family , So ; Nich . , So ; Nigel , So ; Phil . , 48 


 See also Combe 


 Cumberworth , Yorks . , 420 


 
 
 Upper , 419 


 Cumbes , de , Ailnod , 304 ; Ric . , 404 ; Rob . , 304 


 Cumbray [ Combrai , Cumbrai , Cumerai ] , de , Alvred , de , Alvred , 77 , 78 ; Geoff . , 78 ; Ralph , 77 , 78 ; Ric . , 77 ; Rog . , 77 ; Will . , 78 


 See Cambray 


 
 
 Cumeaus , de , Hamon , 141 ; Ranulf , 


 141 


 Cumin [ Cumyn ] . See Comyn Cumpton , de , Master John , 232 Curchun [ Curcion ] , de , Ric . , 134 ; Will . , 5 , 134 


 Curci [ Curcy ] , de , family , 2 , 165 , 243 ; of Stoke Curcy , 247 ; Alice , 169 ; Rob . , 47 , 101 , 349 ; Will . , 120 , 169 


 fee , 49 , 182 , 191 , 208-209 , 274 , 340 ; honor , 170 , 232 , 242 , 243 Curry , Soms . , 42 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 480] ===
 
 
 464 INDEX 


 
 
 Curteis , le , Will . , 304 Curtenay , de , Hugh , 173 , 174 


 
 
 Curtun , de , Will . , 167 


 Curzon , Will . , 145 


 Cusaunce , de , Beatrice , 274 ; Pet . , 


 
 
 274 


 Cusworth , Yorks . , 297 , 418-419 Cuverville , 322 


 
 
 Cuvett , Mary , 44 ; Will . , 44 Cuwyk . ' See Cowick Bury 


 
 
 ¿ 


 
 
 D'ABERNON 


 
 
 [ D'Abernoun ] . 


 Abernon , de 


 Dagolun . See Aguillon Dakeny , Tho . , 329 Dale , de la , Isabel , 179 ; Sir John , 


 
 
 179 


 Dalling , de , Hamon , 150 ; Phil . , 150 ; Ralph , 394 


 Dalling , Norf . , 152 , 153 , 325 , 394 ; church , 151 


 
 
 Field , 141 , 151 Dallington , Suss . , 39 Dalton , de , John , 330 ; Margery , 330 ; Sir Rob . , 330 Dalton , par . Rotherham , Yorks . , 


 419-420 


 Dalton , Yorks . , 297 


 Damas , John , 109 


 
 
 428 


 Dartford , Kent , 58 


 
 
 See 


 
 
 Damietta , 13 


 Dane in Thanet , Kent , manor , 185 ' Danefella . ' See Denver , Norf . Daneis [ Dacus ] , Will . , 251 Danmartin [ Damartin , Dammartin , Donmartin ] , Alice , 381 ; Aubrey , 287 ; Basilia , 73 ; Juliana , 422 ; Matilda , 287 ; Odo , 313 ; Sarra , 73 ; Steph . , 73 Dannay [ Daneghithe ] , in Hurstpier 


 point , wood , 333 


 Danys , Geoff . , 428 , 442 ; Margery , 


 
 
 S 


 
 
 Dattisham , Suss . , 31 , 32 


 D'Aubeny . See Aubigny , de D'Aumarle . See Albemarle D'Aundely , Joan , 369 ; John , 369 D'Autry [ D'Autrey ] , Alice , 87 ; Eva , 


 92 


 Daventre , de , John , 380 


 David ( of Little Casterton , Rutl . ) , 


 281 


 Dawley , Midd . , 372 , 374 


 Dayvill , de , Walter , 89 Dean [ Deen ] , de , Will . , 278 


 Dean [ Deane , Dene ] , Kent , 86 , 157 n . , 185 


 Dean ( in Spilsbury ) , Oxon . , 229 , 243 


 Dean , Suss . , 346 


 
 
 East , Suss . , 7 , II , 19 


 West , Suss . , 2 , 7 , 87-88 


 
 
 Debach , Suff . , 424 


 
 
 Debenham , Suff . , 73 , 366-367 , 388 Deddington , Oxon . , 62 , 164 , 227 233 , 240 ; castle , 63 , 64 ; manor , 63 , 64 


 Dedincton , ' 313 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 Deepdale , Norf . , 152 


 Deepden , Suff . , 296 , 381-382 


 
 
 Deepham , Norf . , 151 


 Dena , de , Ralph , 79 


 
 
 Denford , Suss . , 50 


 Denham , Suff . , 319 ; manor , 126 Denmark , 203 


 
 
 Denmead , Hants . , 65 Denton , Lincs . , 387 


 Denver [ Danevela , ' Denevere ] , de , Osbern , 381 ; Rob . , 381 , 426 ; Walter , 426 


 Denver , Norf . , 296 , 328 , 380 , 382 384 manor , 383-384 Deopham , Norf . , 322 , 326 , 338 ; Creppyngefe , 337 ; Dalling , 325 Deptford , Kent , manor , 320 Dereby , de , Agnes , 144 ; Alice , 144 ; Beatrice , 144 ; Kath . , 144 ; Tho . , 144 


 Dereham [ Derham ] , de , Isabel , 121 , 133 ; Will . , 133 


 Dereham , Norf . , 329 , 380-382 


 West , abbey , 105 , 304 , 329 , 373 , 426 


 Derinton , ' Wilts . , manor , 85 Dersingham , de , Godwin , 120 Dersingham [ Dursingham ] , Norf . , 2 , 


 120-121 , 133 


 Despenser , le , Baldwin , 10 ; Hen . , 254 ; Hugh , 179 , 223 , 333 , 414 ; Sir Hugh , 233 ; Isabel , 342 , 414 ; John , 236 , 237 ; Thurstan , 223 See Osmund Detling , Kent , 332 Deulebencie the Jew . D'Evereux , Will . , 144 Devizes , Wilts . , 414 ; castle , 379 Devon , countesses - 184 , 236 ; Amice , 


 See Jews 


 236 , 239 ; Isabel des Forz , 224 , 226 ; Margery de Rivers , 170 ; Margt . de Rivers , 190 , 201–202 , 208 , 223 , 226 , 358 


 
 
 &lt; 


 
 
 &lt; 


 
 
 earls - 228 ; Baldwin , 235 , 239 ; Baldwin de L'Isle , 170 , 186 , 226 ; Will . , 207 


 See also Albemarle 


 
 
 Dewsbury , Yorks . , manor , 307 Dichelei , de , Thurstan , 197 


 Dickley [ Dikeley ] in Mistley , Essex , 164 , 192-194 


 
 
 Diddington , Warws . , 362 Diddlebury , Salop , church , 90 


 
 
 Didling , Suss . , 65-66 ; manor , 67 , 68 Didlington , Norf . , 311 , 384 , 393 , 395 Digoun . See Nugoun 


 Dillington , 257 


 Dilwick , in Stagsden , Beds . , 250 , 


 255 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 481] ===
 
 
 INDEX 465 


 
 
 Dinan [ Dinant , Dinaunt , Dinham ] , de , family , 2 ; Alan , 99 ; Alda , 212 ; Geoff . , 212 ; Sir Geoff . , 212 ; Hawise , 99 ; Joice , 99 ; Oliver , 99 ; Rolland , 9 , 10 , 46 , 99 ; Rolland , vicomte , 99 ; Sibil , 99 Dinton , Bucks . , 107 , 108 Ditcham , Hants . , 55 Ditchingham , Norf . , 429 Ditchling [ Dicelinges ] , Suss . , 305 , 326 , 340 , 370 ; church , 3II ; 


 
 
 manor , 307 


 Ditton Priors , Salop , manor , 318 Dive [ Dyve ] , de , family , 1 , 62 , 239 ; of Balderton , Notts . , 64 ; of Brampton , N'hants . , 64 ; of Hinx ton , Cambs . , and Corby , Lincs . , 64 ; of Thundridge , Herts . , 64 ; Alice , 64 , 232 ; Cecily , 62 ; Guy , 63 , 228 , 230 , 231 ; Hen . , 26 n . , 64 , 232 , 233 ; Hugh , 62 , 335 ; Jo . , 63 , 64 , 232 , 233 ; Lucy , 63 , 228 , 230 ; Marca , 233 ; Margt . , 335 ; Sibyl , 63 ; Will . , 25 , 62 , 63 , 228 , 231 , 232 , 240 


 Docking [ Docching , Doching , Dock yng ] , de , family , 3 ; Albert , 133 ; Harvey , 148 ; Nich . , 133 ; Ralph , 133 ; Ric . , 133 ; Richer , 133 , 148 Docking , Norf . , 3 , 129 , 130 , 133–134 , 395 Dodelesfold , nr . Petworth , Suss . , I , 20 , 30 Dodilendtun . See Didlington , Norf . Doisnell [ Duisnell ] , Juliana , 376 ; Rob . , 376 


 Dol , de , Sir Hugh , 69 ; Sir Ric . , 69 Domfront , 416 Donnington , Lincs . , 107 D'Orival [ Aureavalle , Aurevalle , Orval , de Rivallis ] , family , 2 ; Emery , 78 ; Mabel , 57 ; Muriel , 56 , 57 ; Rainald , 56 ; Reg . , 56 , 57 Dorking , Surr . , 355 , 419 ; manor , 307 Dornford , par . Wootton , Oxon . , 237 , 239-241 


 
 
 Dover , 233 , 293 , 387 ; castle , 156 , 427 ; constable , 160 ; honor , 172 , 294 , 319 , 427 Doverbec , mill , 112 Dovre , de , Hugh , 235 Down Ampney , Gloucs . , 170 Down Hall , Essex , 271 Draper , le , Simon , 53 Draycote , Wilts . , 235 , 236 Draycote Foliot , Wilts . , manor , 236 Drayton , le , Geoff . , 260 ; Joan , 260 ; Miles , 260 


 
 
 Drayton , in Farlington , Hants . , 2 , 95-96 


 
 
 Drew , huntsman , 41 


 Driby [ Dryby ] , de , Joan , 39 , 45 , 51 , 88 ; Jo . , 121 Drincourt , hospital , 318 Drokensford , de , John , 272 


 Drosei , de , Will . , 301 Drumare , de , Reg . , 191 Dublin , 194 , 353 


 Ducklington , Oxon . , 62 , 228 , 230-231 , 233 ; manor and park , 63 , 64 Duddington , N'hants . , manor , 283 Dudelesfald , de , Rob . , 30 ; Theo doric , 30 


 
 
 Suss . , 2 , 53 , 76–77 , 82 Norf . , 398 , 399 


 Dreu brother of John the chamber lain , 424 


 III . 


 
 
 Dummer , Hants . , 86 Dummere , Ric . le , 59 Dumpford , Suss . , 65 , 66 ; lord of , 86 ; manor , 67 , 68 Duncton , Suss . , 1 , 11 , 16 , 19 , 20 , 30 , 92 , 93 ; chapel , 17 ; manor , 19 ; mill , 10 


 
 
 Dune [ Dunne ] , de la , Margery , 221 ; Rob . , 294 ; Will . , 221 Dunham , Essex , 208 


 
 
 Norf . , 380-382 , 384 ; church , 396 Great , Norf . , 119 Duniland , East , Essex , 210 Dunmawe [ Dunemawe ] , de , Gilb . , 401 ; Ralph , 167 ; Will . , 401 Dunmow , Essex , 164 , 167 , 213–216 , 


 219 


 
 
 Great , Essex , 212 , 296 , 400-402 Dunsby , Lincs . , 188 Dunstable , priory , 156 Dunstanvill , of Idsall , Salop , Heytes bury , Wilts . , and Burpham , Suss . , family , 1 , 37-39 ; Adeline , 20 n .; Alan , 37 , 38 ; Alice , 38 , 39 ; Denise , 39 ; Grace , 39 ; Gundreda , 37 ; Jo . , 39 ; Muriel , 38 ; Petronilla , 39 ; Rainald or Reg . , 20 n . , 37 ; Rob . , 37-39 ; Rohaise , 39 ; Sibil , 38 , 39 ; Walter , 9 , 37-39 , 71 ; Will . , 38 


 
 
 Dunston , Norf . , 102 , 109 , 132 Dunton , de , Amabil , 394 ; Ywan , 394 Dunton , Beds . , 227 


 
 
 Norf . , 95 Dunwich , Suff . , 122 , 381 


 Dureford , Suss . , abbey , II , 12 , 18 , 25 , 35 , 54 , 55 , 84-85 , 91 , 351 Dureshurst , Suss . , wood , 30 Duresme [ Dunholmo ] , de , Joslain , 401 ; Tho . , 401 


 Durham , bishops - Anthony de Bek , 68 ; Hugh Puiset , 416 Duuerent , de , Ralph , 321 Dyve . See Dive Dyvenes , Rob . , 366 


 
 
 EARTHAM , Suss . , 25 , 299 


 Easebourne [ Eselburna , Esseburn ] , Suss . , II , 65 , 66 ; manor , 68 ; prioress , 20 


 
 
 2 H 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 482] ===
 
 
 466 INDEX 


 
 
 Easebourne , near Midhurst , Suss . , church , 65 ; manor , 66 Eastacre . See Castleacre Eastbourne , Suss . , 62 ; manor , 33 East Bridge , Kent , 162 Eastergate , Suss . , 2 , 89 Easthall in Eastbourne , 353 Easthorpe , Essex , 204 ; manor , 205 Eastling , Kent , manor 185 Easton [ Eston ] , de , Reg . , 282 ; Sim . , 282 


 Easton [ Essendon , Estun ] , 310 , 311 Easton , Herts . , manor and church , 7 N'hants . , 165 , 167 , 273 , 281-285 Suff . , 117 


 
 
 Bavents , Suff . , 22 , 135 


 Great , Essex , 370 , 371 , 373-375 Easwrith , court , 39 Eaton , Beds . , 267 


 Bray , Beds . , 250 , 261 


 Socon , Beds . , 165 , 166 , 248-257 , 259-261 , 264-265 , 267 ; barony , 168 , 261 , 263 ; honor , 262 ; manor , 168 


 
 
 Eccles , Norf . , 3 , 132 , 144 Eccleshale , de , Ralph , 420 Eckington , Derbys . , 313 Edburton , 349 Eddesden , Suss . , 87 Eddlesborough 


 [ Edelesbiri ] , 


 Hugh , 254 ; Oliver , 254 Eddlesborough [ Edlesborough ] , 


 Bucks . , 250 , 251 , 256 Edenesore , de , Ric . , 287 Edgefield , Norf . , 118 Edgeworth , Gloucs . , 107 Edingthorpe , Norf . , 437 Edisfeld , de , Pet . , 135 


 
 
 Edith , queen , 355 Edmonton , Midd . , 318 , 350 


 
 
 Edstan , 360 


 Edward ( of Great Crawford , Dors . ) , 


 
 
 de , 


 
 
 248 ; prince , 184 , 205 , 215 , 277– 278 , 290 , 333 , 369 , 398 Edwardstone , Suff . , 291 , 366 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Edwin , priest of Hammes , 315 


 Effordeby . ' See Asserby 


 Egdean , Suss . , 19 , 91 , 92 ; church , 91 ' Egelie , ' Suss . , 76 


 
 
 Egerindenn , de , Josceus , 158 


 Eggelawe , ' castle , 372 


 
 
 Eggemare , de , Adam , 114 Eggesfeld , de , Pet . , 437 Egmere , Norf . , 297 , 428-430 Eiland . See Nayland , Essex Eincurt , de , Alice , 238 ; Jo . , 238 Einesford , de , Eleanor , 251 ; Will . , 250-251 , 264 


 ' Eineswrd . ' See Chardwell manor , in Arkesden , Essex 


 ' Eissart , ' 73 


 Elbode , knight , II Elbridge [ Elbrugg ' ] , Suss . , 36 , 59 , 


 87 


 
 
 Eleanor , daughter of Joscelin the castellan , 65 ; princess , 205 ; queen , 18 , 19 , 64 , 77 , 118 , 170 , 222 , 281 , 284 , 337 , 368 , 432 Eleigh , Suff . , manor , 122 Elham , Kent , 5 , 6 , 12 , 101 , 160 , 162 , 163 ; lady of , 185 ; manor , 157 , 184 


 Eling , Hants . , 86 ; manor , 85 Elingham , Suss . , church , 27 Elinton , ' Suss . , 332 


 Ellingham , Norf . , 119 , 132 , 151 , 385 , 388 , 389 ; Little , 337 , 338 , 387 , 388 Ellis , marshal , 206 ; Rohaise , wife , 206 Elm , Cambs . , manor , 404 Elmer [ Elmere ] , Will . , 23 , 32 , 75 Elmer , Suss . , 30 , 32 , 39 


 
 
 &lt; 


 
 
 Elmham , Suss . , 67 


 Elmsett , Suff . , 167 , 174-177 , 247 ; lady of , 177 


 
 
 Elmstead , Essex , 201 


 Elmstone , Kent , 184 ; manor , 185 Elsing , Norf . , 296 , 395-400 ; manor , 148 


 Elvedon , Suff . , 296 , 342-344 


 Elvested , Suss . , 86 


 
 
 Ely , 353 , 382 , 426 bishops - 107 , 


 
 
 St. Etheldreda , 359 ; fee , 104 ; monks , 298 ; prior , 108 , 202 Empshott , Hants . , 93 Emsworth , Hants . , 349 , 350 Engaine [ Engayne ] , de , family , 321 ; Joan , 257 ; Jo . , 257 , 268 ; Sir Jo . , 257 ; Kath . , 257 ; Margt . , 317 ; Sarra , 314 , 317 , 318 , 321 ; Tho . , 257 ; Vital [ Vitalis ] , 314 , 317-318 , 321 


 Engeler ( of Up Marden , Suss . ) , 65 England , marshal of , 68 


 
 
 127-128 , 172 173 , 203 , 214 , 216 , 218 , 293-294 , 361-362 , 427 ; Hugh , 362 ; Nigel , 155 , 214 


 
 
 Englishcumb , Som . , 356 Englishman . See Alvred Enhale , Norf . , 372 


 Envaise , le , family , 213 ; Hamon , 


 213 ; Isabel , 213 


 
 
 Ercall , Salop , 390 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 Child's , Salop , 390 , 391 


 Erchelawis , ' Kent , manor , 155 , 217 Erdale , de , Adam , 212 Erdington [ Erdinton ] , 


 de , 


 Hen . , 369 ; Mary , 46 ; Rohaise , 362-363 ; Tho . , 46 , 91 , 362–363 , 365 Erdington , Salop , 183 


 
 
 · 


 
 
 Warws . , manor , 363 Erdlaveswyke , ' Suss . , 316 


 
 
 Erham , Suss . , 88 


 Eriswell , Suff . , 165 , 167 , 268-271 , 


 
 
 273 , 285 


 Erlegh , de , John , 50 


 Erlham , de , Jo . , 95 ; Ralph , 95 ; 


 Tho . , 399 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 483] ===
 
 
 INDEX 467 


 
 
 &lt; 


 
 
 Ermentrude ( of Eaton Socon , Beds . ) , 255 


 Ernald ( of Graffham , Suss . ) , 61 ; ( of South Stoke , Suss . ) , 47 ; see Arnald 


 Erneslund , in Thredling hund . , Norf . , 105 


 Ernucion ( of Greatham , Suss . ) , 37 Erpeford , Essex , 210 Erpingham [ Herpingham ] , de , Rob . , 431 


 
 
 Erpingham , Norf . , 432 ; church , 431 ; South , 152 


 Escales , de , Margery , 111 ; Rob . , III , 114 


 
 
 &lt; 


 
 
 See Scales 


 Eschequer , del , Matt . , 159 ; Matilda , 159 


 Esher , Surr . , 88 , 89 


 Eskirmesur , de , Levina , 316 ; Will . , 316 


 Esmerewic , ' Suss . , 345 


 
 
 &lt; 


 
 
 ? 


 
 
 Esquier , le , Gilb . , 180 


 Essarts [ Essarz ] , de . See Assarts ' Esse . ' See Ash Maners , Hants . Essex , countesses - 198 ; Christiana 


 de Mandevill , 121 , 393 


 
 
 See also Mandevill , de Essex , de , Alice , 407 , 408 ; Hen . , 128 , 162 , 194 , 407 ; Sir Hen . , 107 ; Rob . , 407 


 Estdene , de , Ralph , 54 


 Esthalle , de , Hen . , 133 , 134 , 384 ' Esthurst . ' See Hurstmonceaux , 


 
 
 Suss . 


 Estmore , Norf . , 269 


 Estone , ' Suss . , 72 


 Estrangia , wife of Geldwin son of 


 Savary , 66 


 
 
 earls - Geoff . , 211 , 225 , 252 , 371 ; Geoff . de Mandevill , 213 , 214 , 225 , 249 ; Geoff . Fitz - Piers , 214 , 319 ; Hugh , 371 ; Will . de Mandevill , 121 , 225 , 393 


 
 
 Estre , de , Ralph , 5 


 Estres , in Normandy , 73 


 Estretementon . ' See Strettington 


 
 
 Estselve . ' See Shelve , Kent . 


 Estun , ' dioc . of Lincoln , 281 


 See Easton on the Hill , N'hants . Estur , Matilda , 44 , 45 Esturmi [ Estormi , Esturmy , Sturmi , Sturmy ] , family , 1 , 45 ; Hugh , 12 , 42-43 , 45 , 49 , 87 , 96 ; Jo . , 45 ; Sir Jo . , 45 , 123 ; Rose , 45 ; Sarah , 45 ; Will . , 45 


 
 
 Etchden , Kent , 162 Eton [ Etun ] , de , Avice , 265 ; Beatrice , 267 ; Joan , 265 ; Mar gery , 265 ; Nich . , 265 ; Ric . , 267 ; Rob . , 265 , 267 ; Tho . , 265 Eu , counts of , 3 , 157 , 159–161 , 163 , 218 , 277 , 375 , 377 ; Hen . , 12 , 331 ; Jo . , 4 , 9 , 12 , 155-156 , 158 , 376 ; Rob . , 345 


 
 
 Eu , countesses - 156 , 161 , 163 , 277 , 377 , 418 ; Alice , 4 , 9 , 12 , 101 , 155 , 158 , 162 , 184 


 de , John , 158 , 218 ; Rob . , 277 ; Will . , 155 


 honor , 156 , 163 


 Eudes the sewer , 31 , 56 , 58 , 69 , 81 , 147 , 149 , 155 , 165–166 , 168-169 , 174-175 , 177 , 180 , 182 , 186-187 , 189-193 , 198-202 , 207 , 210 , 212 214 , 217 , 218 , 220 , 225 , 227 , 230 , 248-250 , 258 , 261-262 , 264-265 , 267-269 , 271 , 273 , 275 , 277-279 , 281 , 285 , 287 , 292 , 294 , 345 , 393 , 407 , 415 , 426 


 Rohaise , wife , 166 , 220 , 273 honor , 164-295 


 Eueresa , de , Isabel , 243 ; Rob . , 243 Eustace , 309 ; count , 393 


 Euston , Suff . , 326 ; manor , 140 , 141 , 326 


 
 
 Everland . ’ See Overland , Kent Evermuth , de , Isabel , 246 , 247 ; Reg . , 246 , 247 


 Eversden , Cambs . , 208 , 209 , 388 ; church , 208 


 Evesham , battle , 63 , 71 , 98 , 115 , 142 , 236 , 279 , 290 Ric . , abbot of , 71 Evesk , le , Elias , 381 


 Ewell , de , Ric . , king's serjeant , 256 Ewisham . ' See Howsham , Essex Ewyas , Herefords . , 366 Exchequer , chamberlainship , 187 Exeter , bishops - 74 , 86 , 313 , 381 ; Will . , 413 


 Eye , constable of , 439 ; court of , 28 ; honor , 204 , 302 , 438-440 


 Eyneford , de , Isabel , 196 ; Will . , 162 , 195 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 C 


 
 
 Eynesworth , Essex , 407 ; chapel , 407 , 408 ; fee , 187 


 Eynsford , Kent , manor , 185 Eynsham , abbey , 231 , 237 , 243 ; abbot , 62 ; monks , 229 , 230 , 237– 239 , 242 


 Eyot , John , 59 ' Eystan atte Mounte . ' Great , Essex 


 
 
 See Easton , 


 
 
 FACED , la , Ralph , 286 Fagesflore , de , Baldwin , 223 


 Fakenham , Norf . , 120 ; manor , 13 , 


 14 


 
 
 St. Stephen's , prior , 326 


 [ ' Fageham ' ] , Little , Suff . , 120 ; church , 34 Falaise [ Faleise , Faleyse ] , de , family , I ; Agnes , 41-43 ; Alice , 43 , 45 ; Ellis , 43 ; Emma , 41 , 60 ; Hugh , 41 ; Jo . , 41 ; Margt . , 43 ; Pet . , 45 ; Will . , 41 , 43 , 247 


 See St. Jean 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 484] ===
 
 
 468 INDEX 


 
 
 Falcon ( of Pitsea , Essex ) , 220 Falconer [ Fauconer , Faukener , Faulkener ] , family , 2 ; Agnes , 94 ; Geoff . , 10 ; Jo . , 109 , 147 , 325 ; Ric . , 94 ; Rog . , 96 ; royal , 94–95 ; Safrid , II ; Will . of Wade , 97 Faldgate , Norf . , 148 ' Falesh . ' See Foulsham , Norf . Falmer [ Falemella , Falwella ] , Suss . , 299 , 309 , 310 , 311 


 Falsham , de , John , 363 


 Farley , Surr . , 22 


 
 
 Farlington [ Farlyngton ] , de , John , 96 Farlington , Hants . , 95 , 96 


 Farnbridge , Essex , 278 


 Farnet , ' Surr . , 73 Farnham , castle , 58 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Farningham , Kent , 195 


 Farthingho [ Farningho ] , N'hants . , 165 , 245-246 


 Fastolf , John , 109 


 
 
 · 


 
 
 Fauflore . ' See Fawler , Berks . Favarches , de , Geoff . , 59 ; Olive , 58 ; Will . , 8 , 58 


 Faversham , Kent , 330 


 
 
 Fawler [ Fallow ] , in Sparsholt , Berks . , 


 171 , 174 , 223 ; manor , 224 Fawn [ Faeto , Facatus ] , Ralph , 402 Fay , de , Beatrice , 48 , 335-336 , 356 357 ; Jo . , 356-357 , 439 ; Matilda , 356 , 439 , 440 ; Philippa , 357 ; 


 Ralph , 356 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 Febbinges , ' Essex , 183 


 Fecamp , de , Nich . , 170 Fécamp , Holy Trinity , abbey , 41 ; abbots - 15 , 47 ; Hen . , 30 ; Ralph de Argenciis , 31 


 Feckenham , Worcs . , forester of , 208 Fedric , fee , 396 


 Feldstede , de , Will . , 390 Fellech , de , Edeline , 69 


 Felsted , Essex , 390 


 Essex , Grancurt's alias Gron ker's manor , 390 Felthorpe , Norf . , 399 , 436 Felton , de , Rob . , 119 


 Feltwell , Norf . , 296 , 308 n . , 334 , 337-338 , 359-367 , 370 , 372 , 375 ; church , 311 , 371 ; manor , 335-337 Ferendene , de , Alsi , 242 Fering , de , Amfrey , 47 Feringes , de , Alfred , 324 Feritate , de , Will . , 85 Ferles , de , Will . , 169 ' Fernet , ' Surr . , manor , 73 Fernhurst , Suss . , I , 20 , 25 , 30 Ferre , Guy , 247 , 278 


 Ferrers , de , Hen . , 246 


 Ferrers , Will . , earl of , 170 , 379 , 380 


 
 
 Ferring , Suss . , 47 


 Fersfield , 13 


 Ferte , de la , Gundreda , 414 ; Margt . , 414 ; Will . , 204 


 Ferthington , de , John , 147 


 
 
 Fetcham , Surr . , 309 , 340 


 Field or Wood Burcote , near Tow cester , N'hants . , 169 Field Dalling , Norf . , 141 , 326 Fienes , de , Felicia , 422 ; Ingram , 422 ; Will . , 423 


 Fifhide [ Fyfhide ] , de , Agnes , 352 ; 


 Joan , 352 ; Will . , 352 ; Sir Will . , 352 Figheldean with Ablinton , Wilts . , 85 Filby , Norf . , 321-322 , 327-330 Filiol [ Filliol ] , Margery , 354 ; Ric . , 354 ; Will . , 220 


 Filkins , Oxon . , 239 Fillingham , Lincs . , church , 56 Fimborough , Suff . , 29 , 145 , 167 , 


 
 
 172-173 , 324 , 325 ; manor , 173 Finamur , Joan , 55 ; Will . , 55 Fincham [ Fyngham ] , Norf . , 296 , 308 n . , 345-346 , 370 , 373-375 , 381 , 392 ; St. Mich . , church , 372-373 Finchdean , court , 78 


 Fincheam , de , Nigel , 371 Finchingfield , Essex , 400 Fishbourne , Suss . , 2 , 89 Fishlake , Yorks . , manor , 307 , 420 Fittleworth , Suss . , 91 , 92 Fitz - Adam , Sim . , 294 Fitz - Alan , family , 2 , 15 , 47 ; of Clun , Salop , 76 ; Edm . , 15 , 16 , 118 Eudes , 7 , 21 , 22 ; Gunnor , 21 , 22 ; Jo . , 14 , 19 , 44 , 47 , 53 , 58 , 63 , 67–68 , 70 , 76 , 98-99 , 131-133 , 135-138 , 140 , 147-148 ; Sir Jo . , 51 ; Mary , 46 ; Ric . , 16 , 45 , 47 , 58 , 133 , 139 ; Roald , 276 ; Will . , 22 , 46-47 , 67 , 76 , 91 fee , 91 ; honor , 249 Fitz - Aldelin , Juliana , 376 ; Ralph , 376 ; Will . , marshal , 376 Fitz - Alexander , Nigel , 113 Fitz - Alvred , Adam , 403 ; Will , 364 Fitz - Bernard , Alina , 219 ; Joan , 111 ; 


 
 
 Ralph , III ; Tho . , 219 Fitz - Brien , Aveline , 22 ; Brien , 22 ; Cecily , 22 ; Eudes , 22 ; Isabel , 22 ; Sarah , 22 


 Fitz - Count , Brien , 234 ; Matilda , 234 Fitz - Duncan , Alice , 223 Fitz - Eilwin [ Ailwin ] , Alan , 349 ; 


 Hen . , 348-349 ; Isabella , 348 ; Orabilis , 349 ; Pet . , 348-349 Fitz - Ernold , Alice , 186 ; Rob . , 186 Fitz - Fucher or Fulcher , Hen . , 188 ; Nich . , 188 


 Fitz - Fulk , Ralph , 270 


 
 
 Fitz - Geoffrey , John , 14 , 253 , 357-358 ; Margery , 357 ; Sir Ric . , 358 ; 


 
 
 Will . , 201-202 , 253 Fitz - Gerold , family , 164-165 , 211 , 226 , 228 , 234 , 237 ; Agnes , 171 ; Alex . , 221 , 223 ; Alice , 119 , 169 , 172-173 , 223 ; Ermentrude , 169 171 ; Hen . , 119 , 155 , 168–171 , 173 , 186 , 191 , 193 , 212–213 , 218 , 220 , 223 , 228 ; Hen . , chamberlain , 175 , 177 , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 485] ===
 
 
 INDEX 469 


 
 
 180 , 182 , 186-187 , 189-190 , 194 , 198-202 , 207 , 210 , 214 , 216 , 220 , 224-225 , 227 , 230 , 238 , 242 ; Hugh , 223 ; Margt . or Margery , 169 Matilda , 119 , 169 , 227-228 , 238 ; Ralph , 220-221 ; Ric . , 242 ; Rob . , 172-173 ; Warin , 119 , 169–171 , 173 , 201 , 203 , 208-209 , 213 , 217-220 , 224 , 228 , 230-232 , 242-243 , 245 , 286 ; Warin , chamberlain , 168-169 , 223 , 225 ; Sir Warin , 220 , 225 Fitz - Gerold , fee , 221 ; honor , 232 Fitz - Gery [ ' Geri ' ] , Ralph , 220 Fitz - Gilbert , Ric . , 167 ; Rohaise , 167 Fitz - Godebold , Rob . , 276 Fitz - Godric , Eudes , 5 ; Ralph , 5 Fitz - Herbert , Eudes , Alice , 272 , 321 ; Herbert , 321 ; Sim . , 190 Fitz - Hubert , Adam , 190 , 197-199 , 227,287 , 292-294 ; Eudes , see Eudes the sewer ; Pet . , 321 Fitz - Hugh , Ric . , 203 ; Rob . , 213 Fitz - John , Agnes , 103-104 ; Aveline , 358 ; Isabel , 358 ; Joan , 358 ; Jo . , 358 ; Matilda , 358 ; Pain , 103-104 , 108 ; Phil . , 276 ; Ric . , 358 Fitz le Persone . See Persone Fitz - Murdrac , Rob . , 238 Fitz - Nicholas , Ralph , 191 , 192 , 240 Fitz - Nigel , Isabel , 244 ; Joan , 244 ; Jo . , 244 


 Fitz - Oger , Michael , 252 Fitz - Osbern , Rog . , 395 ; Sir Rog . , 152 ; Will . , 228 , 234 , 237. See Hereford Fitz - Osbert , family , 2 , 3 , 297 ; Alice , 430 ; Isabel , 429 ; 429 ; Pet . , 429 ; Ric . , 249 ; Rog . , 133 , 152 , 173 , 429 , 430 ; Sarah , 173 , 429 , 430 Fitz - Otes , Beatrice , 290-291 ; Hugh , 


 291 ; Joan , 291 ; Matilda , 291 ; Otto or Otes , 290-291 ; Tho . , 


 
 
 290-291 


 Fitz - Otho , Hugh , 406 


 Fitz - Pain , John , 221 


 Fitz - Peter , Ralph , 202 , 203 Fitz - Philip , Juliana , 276 ; Rob . , 276 Fitz - Piers , Geoff . , 195 , 214 , 282 , 291 , 319 Fitz - Piers alias Fitz - John , family , 296 Fitz - Ralph , family , I ; Brien , 21 ; Cecily , 203 ; Hubert , 419 ; Hugh , 419 Juliana , 419 ; Ric . , 203 ; Sim . , 117 ; Will . , 24 Fitz - Randulf , Matilda , 372 ; Will . , 


 
 
 371-372 


 Fitz - Raven , Mabel , 417 ; Will . , 417 Fitz - Reinfrid , family , 165 ; Rog . , 286 Fitz - Richard , Alex . , 213 ; Will . , 202 , 


 
 
 Fitz - Roger , family , 164 ; Gilb . , 397 ; Jo . , 316 ; Margt . , 316 , 321 ; Rein frid , 286 ; Rob . , 316 , 320–321 , 345 ; Sir Rob . , 109 Fitz - Simon , family , 165 , 297 ; Adam , 286 ; Jo . , 294 Fitz - Simond [ Symund ] , le , Hugh , 294 ; Sir Hugh , 295 ; Margt . , 295 Fitz - Swain , family , 297 ; Adam , 420 Fitz - Tetbald , Rob . , 4 , 61 , 62 Fitz - Urse , Margt . , 317 ; Ralph , 203 ; Ric . , 317 Fitz - Vincent , Sim . , 397 Fitz - Walkelin , Rob . , 171 Fitz - Walter , Alice , 173 , 280 ; Chris tiana , 121 , 280 , 393 ; Dervorguille , 280 , 291 ; Gunnor [ Gunnora ] , 121 , 393 ; Hamon , 426 ; Jo . , 294-295 ; Ric . , 177 ; Rob . , 121 , 173 , 271 , 280 , 286-287 , 291 , 294 , 314 , 316 , 319 , 365 , 390 , 393 , 403 ; Sir Rob . , 108 , 280 ; Rog . , 314 ; Sibyl , 314 , 316 , 319 Fitz - Warin , Ralph , 299 Fitz - William , Emma , 38 , 201 ; Geoff . , 38 ; Margery , 202 ; Muriel , 38 ; Ric . , 201-202 , 364 ; Sir Tho . , 333 Fitz - Wimar , family , 296 ; Rog . , sewer , 


 
 
 203 Fitz - Robert , Alard , 408 ; Gille , 316 ; Joan , 205 ; Jo . , sheriff , 314 , 316 ; Rog . , 314 , 316 ; Walter , 205 , 276 ; Will . , 316 ; Will . , sheriff , 319 


 
 
 299 


 Fitz . See Son of 


 Flaitel , Basilia , 421 ; Gerard , 421 Flambard [ Flambart , Flaumbard , Flamine ] , family , 164 ; Alice , 210 ; Matt . , 216 ; Ranulf , 94 ; Will . , 


 
 
 210 


 Flambard ( of Pitsea , Essex ) , 220 Flambard's land in Tendring , 210 Flanders , 298 


 Flaxham , Suss . , park , 92 , 93 Fleet , prison , 74 


 Fleming [ Flamanc , Flemeng , Flem meng ] , le , family , 1 , 33 ; Alard [ Adelard , Alart , Athelard ] , 7 , 33 34 , 98 , 101 ; Alice , 33 ; Emma , 33-34 , 98 ; Gherbod , 298 ; Hen . , 33-34 , 274 ; Joan , 33 ; Jo . , 33 ; Matilda , 33 ; Muriel , 33 ; Will . , 33 Fletching , Suss . , 324–326 , 332 , 336 , 340 ; manor , 341 Flitcham , Norf . , 2 , 6 , 110–115 , 328 , 366 ; priory , 115 Flitwick [ Fletewyk , Fletwych , Flet wyk , Flittewyk , Flitwyc , Flit wyk ] , de , family , 164 , 188 , 189 ; Agatha , 189 , 441 ; David , 188-189 , 441 ; Sir David , 189 ; Lora , 189 ; Lucy , 188 


 Flitwick , Beds . , 188-189 ; manor , 188 Flixton , Suff . , manor , 429 ; Eleanor , prioress , 429 


 
 
 Florence , 58 


 Flory , de , Ric . , 248 


 Flowton [ Flecton ] , Suff . , 164 , 211 , 216-217 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 486] ===
 
 
 470 INDEX 


 
 
 Fobbing , Essex , 221 , 410 Foleby , de , Rob . , 255 Foliot , family , 164 , 234-236 , 296 ; Adam , 236 ; Alice , 236 ; Barthol . , 230 , 234-235 ; Geoff . , 235-236 ; Gilb . , 193 , 234-235 ; Hawise , 235 ; Hen . , 235 ; Isabel , 236 ; Joan , 236 ; dame Joan , 400 ; Jordan , 399 , 400 ; Sir Jordan , 399 ; Lorencia , 236 ; Margery , 399 , 400 ; Margt . , 400 ; Pet . , 235-236 ; Ralph , 230 , 234-236 ; Ric . , 235 , 399 , 400 , 435 ; Sir Ric . , 400 ; Rob . , 234 ; Rog . , 235-236 ; Sampson , 235-236 ; Sir Sampson , 236 ; Walter , 234 ; Will . , seneschal , 235 


 
 
 Folkestone , honor , 158 Folkington [ Fokinton ] , de , family , 


 
 
 296 , 353 ; Eggelina , 353 , 368 ; Hugh , 11 , 305 , 353-354 , 368 , 443 ; Matilda , 354 ; Olimpias , 354 ; Reg . , 353-354 ; Rob . , 443 


 Folkington , Suss . , 353-354 , 368 ; manor , II , 353-354 Fontanis , de , Turstin , 90 Fontley . See Funtley [ ' Funtele ' ] , Hants . 


 
 
 Ford , Suss . , 65-67 ; church , 90 ; manor , 68 


 Fordham , Essex , 107 , 276 ; manor , 421 


 
 
 Little , Essex , 276 


 Norf . , 380-382 , 384 , 434 Forest Hill , Oxon . , 173 Forester , Ric . , 209. See Nevill Forz , des , Aveline , 337 ; Isabel , 173 , 190 , 192 , 224 , 226 ; Will . , 247 See Albemarle 


 
 
 Foston , Lincs . , 418 


 Fougères , de , Hen . , 57 ; Olive , 57 Foukesbrok , ' Kent , 159 


 
 
 Foulden , Norf . , 114 , 115 , 327 , 329 , 


 330 , 384 , 393-396 , 426 Foulmere , Cambs . , 203 , 330 Foulsham , Norf . , 297 , 436 Foxby , Norf . , 105 Foxele , de , Tho . , 36 Foxley , Norf . , 105 , 108 Foxton , Cambs . , 389 ; church , 313 ; manor , 387 , 388 


 Frameden , Norf . , 150 


 Framlingham , de , Agnes , 433 ; Tho . , 


 
 
 433 


 Framlingham , Suff . , castle , 151 ; constable , 135 Frampton , Gloucs . , 33 Francesius , Albert , 133 Franceys , le , Rob . , 74 Franchevill , de , Will . , 106 Francigena , Albert , 5 ; Reg . , 5 Fransham , de , Geoff . , 338 ; Gilbert , 334 ; Sir Gilb . , 443 ; Will . , 337 Fransham , Norf . , 297 , 334 , 337-338 , 398 , 443 ; church , 397 


 
 
 Fratton ( in Portsea ) , Hants . , 335 , 355 , 357-358 


 
 
 Freckenham , Cambs . , 343 Fredebent ( of Willingham , Cambs . ) , 437 


 Fredesend dau . of Hugh son of Renner , 310 , 327 Freefolk , Hants . , 86 Frelond , John , 248 Freningham , de , Jo . , 292 ; Ralph , 292 ; Sir Ralph , 292 Frenze , Norf . , 361 Freschevill [ Freschenevill , Fressun vill ] , de , family , 297 , 419 ; Amice , 419 ; Anker [ Ancher ] , 418-419 ; Juliana , 419 ; Ralph , 419 


 Fresne [ Frainei , Frayny , Fraxino , Freisne , Freyni ] , de , family , 2 , 82 ; Rog . , 82 ; Will . , 8 , 82-83 ; Sir Will . , 76 


 Fresteng , Geoff . , 53 Fretheric , ' fee , 303 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 Frevill , de , Margt . , 295 ; Ric . , 295 Fring , Norf . , 3 , 145-146 , 393 , 395 Fringham , Norf . , 398 


 Frinstead , Kent , 157-159 Friston , Yorks . , 365 Frittenden , Kent , 185 Fritton , Norf . , 119-120 , 123 Fritwell , Oxon . , 164 , 234-237 Frivill [ Frievill ] , de , Baldwin , 301 ; Drew , 315 ; Emma , 114 ; Isabel , 106 , 114 ; Rob . , 299-301 , 315 ; Rog . , 398 ; Sir Saer , 443 Frogmore , Hants . , 95 Frollebury , Hants . , 70 Frome Henry , Herefords . , 107 Fulbourn , Cambs . , 326 


 Fulcher ( of Blo ' Norton , Norf . ) , 433 Fulcoin , 21 , 24 


 Fulk ( of Midhurst , Suss . ) , 62 


 ( of Ringshall , Suff . ) , 246 sewer , 167 , 200 , 273 


 
 
 Fulking , Suss . , 310 , 347 , 349 , 357 358 


 
 
 Fulmerston , Norf . , manor , 325 Fulmodeston , de , Hugh , 389 Fulmodeston , Norf . , 296 , 325-326 , 389-392 


 Fundenhall , Norf . , 429 


 
 
 Funtley , in Titchfield , Hants . , 2 , 94-96 


 
 
 Furnivall , de , Christiana , 254 , 263 ; Gerald , 254 ; Gerard , 263 , 416 


 
 
 Gaddesden , Herts . , 340 Gadintone . ' 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 See Gethampton , and 


 
 
 Stratton , Oxon . 


 Gaille - Fontaine , Pais de Brai , nun 


 
 
 nery , 421 


 Gainsborough , Lincs . , 170 , 171 : 


 manor , 170 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 487] ===
 
 
 INDEX 471 


 
 
 Galloway , scutage , 10 , 57 , 76 , 81 , 


 194 , 292 


 
 
 Gamenegeye , de , Gilb . , 286 ; Jas . , 286 Gamlingay , Cambs . , 165 , 167 , 285 287 , 302 ; manor , 168 


 Garboldisham , Norf . , 102 , 107-109 , 132 Gardesei , ' Suss . , 314 


 Gardesey , ' Suss . , mill , 312 


 Gardin , Le , in Paglesham , Essex , 193 Gare , La . See Gore , Kent Gargate [ Gargat ] , family , 297 , 410 ; Agnes , 410 ; Hugh , 306 , 410-412 ; Isabel , 411 , 412 ; Muriel , 411 , 412 ; Ric . , 411 ; Rob . , 411 , 412 ; Rog . , 410 , 411 ; Sibyl , 410-412 


 Garinges . ' See Goring , Suss . Garsington , Oxon . , lady of , 369 ; manor , 368-369 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 4 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Garton , Suss . , 345 Garvestone , Suff . , 325 Gascony , 14 , 15 , 45 , 158 , 171 , 173 , 178 , 181 , 184 , 204 , 215 , 216 , 246 , 254 , 259 , 277 , 368 ; seneschal , 96 Gasteny , de , Tho . , 29 Gasthorpe , Norf . , 3 , 130-131 , 145 Gate . See Eastergate , Suss . Gateley , Norf . , 402 , 403 Gatesden [ Gatesdene , Gatesdenne ] , 


 de , family , 2 , 296–297 , 340 ; Cecily , 44 , 45 ; Hawise , 340 ; Jo . , 33 , 44 , 68 , 76 , 83 , 86 , 305 , 324 , 332 , 340 , 357-358 , 443 ; Sir Jo . , 370 ; Margery , 340 ; Margt . , 340 ; Pet . , 44 ; Ric . , 340 ; Tho . , 156 


 Gatesdenne , in Tenterden , Kent , 156 , 160 


 Gatestorp [ Gatesthropp ] , de , family , 3 ; Geoff . , 130 , 131 ; Gorham , 130 ; Hen . , 130 ; Jo . , 131 Gatinden , de , Rog . , 156 Gatton , Surr . , church , 313 Gavray , bailiff of , 63 


 Gay , family , 165 


 Gayton , Norf . , 118 , 312 , 314 , 320 , 334 , 337 , 338 , 435 , 443 


 Croft , ' Norf . , 319 , 320 Thorpe , Norf . , 326 


 Gelham , de , Giles , 344 ; Jo . , 121 ; Ric . , 344 ; Tho . , 344 Gellam , de , Walter , 400 Gemingheam . See Gimingham Geoffrey , chaplain , 313 


 earl , 390 


 falconer , 10 


 king's son , 421 


 Geoffrey ( of Angmering , Suss . ) , 70 ( of Compton , Suss . ) , 55 ( of Shipton and Swinbrook , Oxon . ) , 242 


 ( of Singleton , Suss . ) , 87 ( of Snettisham , Norf . ) , 138 Gerard , knight , 359 


 
 
 ( of Pannington in Wherstead , Suff . ) , 180 


 
 
 C 


 
 
 Gerard . ' See Fitz - Gerold Gerberge [ Gerberd , Gerberg , Ger bergh , Gereberge ] , family , 3 , 297 ; Joan , 137 , 436 ; Jo . , 436 ; Ric . , 436 ; Tho . , 436 ; Sir Tho . , 137 , 436 ; Will . , 136 , 137 , 436 ; Sir Will . , 136 


 Geri . ' See Fitz - Gerold 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Germany , king of , 184 Germeston , de , Alice , 141 ; Ric . , 141 Gernagod , fee , 66 


 Gernegan [ Gernagan ] , Isabel , 429 ; 


 Ralph , II ; Ric . , 146 ; Walter , 429 Gerner , del , family , 3 ; Alex . , 144 ; 


 
 
 Alice , 144 ; Steph . , 144 ; Will . , 144 Gerner [ Gernnere , ' Gernunera ' ] , 


 • 


 Essex , 204-205 ; manor , 205 Gernet , Emma , 52 ; Gilb . , 354 ; Vivian , 52 


 
 
 Gernon [ Gernoun , Gernun ] , family , 164 , 203-206 ; Eleanor , 205 ; Geoff . , 213 ; Hawise , 205 ; Isabel , 206 ; Jo . , 205-206 ; Sir Jo . , 206 ; Lucy , 206 ; Matt . , 203 ; Ralph , 202-206 ; Sir Ralph , 205 ; Ranulf , 203 ; Tho . , 206 , 409 ; Will . , 205 , 206 


 
 
 Gessinges , de , Hen . , 181 Gethampton , Oxon . , 227 Geudewin , 24 


 
 
 Gey , Imbert , 205 Geyton , de , John , 337 Gherbod the Fleming . See Chester Gifard ( of Thorington , Suff . ) , 127 Gifart ( of Stoke Holy Cross , Norf . ) , 


 
 
 119 Giffard , 38 


 Giffard , Eleanor , 222 ; Gundred , 222 ; Hen . , 52 ; Isabel , 106 , 239 , 240 ; Jo . , 23 , 222-223 , 232–233 , 241 ; Jo . , lord , 440 ; Juliana , 25 ; Mabel , 106 ; Matilda , lady , 440 ; Osbert , 29 , 63 , 232 , 240 , 321 ; Sir Osbert , 233 , 241 ; Pet . , 373 ; Ric . , 106 ; Rob . , 222 ; Sir Rob . , 222 ; Sarah , 233 ; Walter , 62 , 227-228 , 359 ; Will . , 221-222 , 343 


 
 
 fee , 86 , 152 , 172 , 250 , 314 , 317 , 365 , 383 , 396 ; honor , 34 , 38 , 320 , 436 


 
 
 Gigewell . ' See Ickwell , Beds . Gikewell . See Ickwell , Beds . Gilbert ( of Feltwell ) , 311 


 ( of Hurstpierpoint ) , 331 Gilla , wife of Wimar the sewer , 396 Gillingham , Dors . , 240 , 248 Gimingham [ Gymingham ] , 


 Juliana , 389 ; Reyner , Turold , 437 ; Will . , 389 , 391 Gimingham , Norf . , 299 , 434 ; church , 


 
 
 311 , 312 ; manor , 306 Ginges , de , Randulf , 106 Ginges , manor , 214 Girard , Le Bois de , 421 


 
 
 de , 126 ; 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 488] ===
 
 
 472 INDEX 


 
 
 Girros , family , 1 , 46 ; Isabel , 46 ; Rob . , 46-47 


 Girton , Cambs . , 262 


 
 
 Girunt , Le , ' 348 


 Gisburn , Yorks . , 18 ; manor , 19 Gissing , de , Agnes , 389 ; Sir Tho . , 389 


 Gladio [ Gladiou ] , jester [ joculator ] , 311 , 353 , 371 


 Gladiou ( of Polhey , Essex ) , 408 Glanvill , de , family , 1 , 211 , 297 , 424 ; Agnes , 428 ; Barthol . , 424 ; 428 ; Bertha , 356 ; Geoff . , 306 , 424 ; Gundreda , 428 ; Hen . , 181 ; Hervey , 428 ; Ranulf , 82 , 356 , 409 , 424 , 428 , 435 ; Ranulf , justiciar , 28 ; Rob . , 424 , 428 ; Steph . , 104 ; Walter , 238 ; Will . , 424 , 428 


 Glatting , in Burton , Suss . , I , 20 , 24 , 27 , 62 


 Glatton , Hunts . , 302 


 Glemham , Suff . , 164 , 167 , 217-219 Gloucester [ Glowecestre ] , de , Osbert , 300 , 396 ; Rog . , 195 , 300 Gloucester and Hertford , countesses 


 -Joan , 129 , 366 ; Matilda , 12 ; Millesent , 422 


 
 
 earls - 53 , 108 , 139 , 159 , 161 , 172 , 232 , 236 , 242 , 270 , 274 , 287 , 357 , 366 , 382 , 399 ; Aumari , 422 ; Gilb . de Clare , 243 , 329 , 409 ; Ric . de Clare , 55 , 243 ; Rob . , 7 ; Rog . , 12 ; Rog . de Clare , 242 ; Will . , 91 , 243 


 See Clare , de 


 Gloucester , fee , 22 ; honor , 42 , 90 , 228 , 267 , 365–366 


 Goda , wife of Berard , 360 Godalming , Surr . , 347 


 Godard ( of Orleswick , Suss . ) , 310 , 


 345 


 Godardvill , de , Walter , 106 


 Godebold ( of Horkesley , Essex ) , 276 Godeswisel , bridge , 311 


 
 
 Godfrey ( of Chesfield and Graveley , Kent ) , 294 


 Godfrey ( of Restold , Suss . ) , 55 Godinoch , Ric . , 254 Godric , Alan , count , 105 


 
 
 ( of Burnham , Norf . ) , 125 ( of Hempstead , Norf . ) , 144 ( of West Newton , Norf . ) , 141 


 sewer , 102 , 105 , 137 fee , 103 


 God save the Ladies , ' Rog . , 210 Godwin , 310 


 
 
 407 ; 


 ( of Yeldham ) , 371 Goet , family , 407 ; Alice , Amabilia , 407 ; Geoff . , 407 ; Hen . , 407 ; Hugh , 407 ; Juliana , 407 ; Ric . , 407 ; Rob . , 407 ; Roese , 407 ; Will . , 407 


 See also Guet 


 
 
 Goldbridge , Suss . , 332 


 Goldesburgh , de , Joan , 404 ; Ric . , 


 
 
 404 


 Goldingham , de , John , 206 


 Golosa . ' See Inglose , Norf . Gonevill , de . See Gundevill Good Easter , Essex , 188 


 Gooderstone , Norf . , 104 , 105 , 107 


 108 ; manor , 108 


 Goodneston , Kent , manor , 185 Goodrich Castle , 33 


 Goodwood [ Godivewud ] , de , Will . , 58 Goodwood [ ' Godyvewod ' ] , Suss . , 58 Gore , par . Upchurch , Kent , manor , 185 


 
 
 &lt; 


 
 
 [ La Gare ] , Kent , 184 , 185 ; manor , 185 Gorge , Harvey , 371 


 Goring , Suss , 1 , 7 , 30-32 ; fee , 17 ; lord of , 82 ; manor , 40 See Gurnay 


 Gornai [ Gornay ] . Gorron , 66 


 
 
 Goscelyn , Alice , 404 ; Will . , 404 Gosfield , Essex , 22 


 Gossiert Molins , La Coudre at , 348 Goudestorp , ' in Intwood , Norf . , 181 Gouet [ Goet ] , lords of Montmirail ( Sarthe ) , 298 , 299 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 Gournai - sur - Epte , Pais de Bray , 420 Gowthorpe , Norf . , 180 , 181 Gozo , 311 


 Graby ( in Aslackby ) , Lincs . , 105 Graffham [ Grafan ] , Suss . , I , 20 , 41 , 47 , 49 , 61-64 , 90 , 92 , 313 ; manor , 25 


 Grafton , N'hants . , chapel of the hermitage , 380 


 ( Regis ) , N'hants . , 379 Granario , de . See Gerner Grancurt [ Grandcurt , Grantcurt , Grantecurte , Grauncurt ] , de , family , 296-297 , 389-390 , 437 ; Ascelina , 390 ; Ralph , 389 , 437 Reiner [ Rainer ] , 299 , 381 , 389 ; Tho . , 404 ; Walter , 300 , 312 , 313 , 389-392 , 437 ; Sir Walter , 390 ; Will . , 389-392 


 Grandyn , Sir Will . , 350 Grange , at , Tho . , 425 


 Gransden , Great , Cambs . , 26 Grantham , Lincs . , 387 ; manor , 307 Gras , Rog . le , 80 


 Graundin , Hugh , 181 


 Grave , de la , John , 44 , 45 ; Ralph , 45 ; master Rog . , canon , 83 Grave in Pinegrave , Kent , 194 


 La , Suss . , 44 , 45 , 76 , 83 ; manor , 


 
 
 77 


 Graveley , Herts . , 165 , 168 , 293–294 Gravenel , de , Cecily , 22 Graveney , de , Atheland , 187 Graveney , Kent , 294 


 Gravenhurst , Beds . , 180 , 181 ; manor , 181 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 489] ===
 
 
 INDEX 473 


 
 
 Gray [ Grai ] , de , family , 227 , 232 , 237 ; Alice , 237 ; Anschetil , 228 , 231 , 237 , 238 ; archbp . , 241 ; Eva , 63,231-232 , 238-241 ; Hawise , 240 ; Jo . , 230-231 , 238 ; Ric . , 237 ; Rob . , 240 , 241 ; Walter , 240-241 See also Grey 


 Graylingwell [ Greylingwell ] , Suss . , 


 71 , 72 


 Greatham , Hants . , 296 , 349 , 350 , 355-358 ; church , church , 313 ; manor , 348-349 ; wood , 304 


 Suss . , 1 , 30 , 32 , 37-39 , 40 ; chapel , 37 Greenstead , Essex , 167 ; manor , 166 Greenwich , East , Kent , manor , 319 West , Kent , church , 318 ; manor , 320 


 Greinsville , Suff . , 128 , 129 Greinvill , de , Ric . , 258 Grelley , Hawise , 280 , 324 ; Joan , 280 , 324 ; Rob . , 324 ; Sir Rob . , 280 ; Tho . , 324 ; Sir Tho . , 324 Grendon , de , Ermentrude , 169 , 171 ; Will . , 169 , 171 


 de , 


 Grenekeye , de , Geoff . , 109 Grenested [ Grenestede , Grensted ] , 43 ; Christiana , 43 ; Juliana , 43 ; Margt . , 43 ; Ralph , 313 ; Ric . , 43-44 , 74 Grensevill , manor , 425 Gresham , Norf . , 296 , 370-375 Gresley , Rob . , 203 Gressenhall , Norf . , 296 , 306 , 395–400 ; fee , 435 ; manor , 435 Gressingehale , de , Isabel , 396 , 397 Grestein , abbot of , 379 , 380 Greston [ Grestun ] , de , Hen . , 134 ; John , 134 


 Greston , Norf . , 326 Gretteford [ Grutteford ] , Beds . , 261 Grey , de , family , of Rotherfield , 239 ; dame Isabel , 241 ; Jo . , 233 , 344 , 398 ; Jo . , justice , 373 ; Rob . , 241 ; Sir Rob . , 241 


 See also Gray 


 Greystoke , de , Ralph , 255 , 264-265 ; Ralph , baron , 265 ; Rob . , 264 ; Will . , 255 , 264-265 ; Will . , baron , 265 Grigneuseville [ Greinusevill , Greniosa 


 
 
 villa , Grinnosavilla ] , de , Hugh , 299 , 300 , 311 ; Walter , 300 ; Will . , 299 Grim , reeve , 220 Grimeston , de , Agnes , 133 ; Alice , 


 
 
 133 ; Geoff . , 133 ; Goda , 133 ; Matilda , 133 ; Pet . , 133 ; Tho . , 133 ; Thurstan , 133 ; Will . , 133 Grimston , Norf . , 3 , 6 , 133-134 , 


 297 , 325-326 , 395-396 , 399 , 43º , 434-435 , 443 


 Grinstead , church , 313 Grip , Rob . , 411 Griston , Norf . , 132 , 134 


 
 
 Grittenham , Suss . , 1 , 17 , 23 Gros , le , Petronilla , 140 Groton , Suff . , 360 , 362-363 ; manor , 362 


 Groves , Suss . , 83 


 
 
 par . Owing , Suss . grave , Suss . Grundel . See Crundel Grundelay , II Grundisburgh , Suff . , 424 , 429 


 
 
 See Martins 


 
 
 Grys , Nich . , 192 Gubion , Hugh , 249 


 Gubstede , in Aveley , Essex , 401 Guerche [ Gyrche ] , de la . See Wirch Guerres , de , Manasser , 371 ; Ric . , 371 Guestwick , Norf . , 153 , 436 Guet , Ric . , 298-299 , 371 , 406 , 409 See also Goet 


 Guibert ( of Southhall , Essex ) , 400 Guihomar . See Wimar 


 Guildford Castle , constable of , 349 Guillelma of the queen's chamber , 275 


 
 
 Guilsborough , N'hants . , 366 Guist , Norf . , 297 , 436 Guiz , de , Sir Rob . , 134 Gulafre , Rog . , 208 


 Gulbert ( of Sturmer , Essex ) , 400 Guldeford , de , Hen . , 47 ; Pet . , 161 Gumbaud , Christiana , 189 ; Joan , 


 189 ; Lora , 189 ; Margt . , 189 ; Will . , 189 


 Gundevill [ Gonevill , Gundovill , Gunevile ] , de , family , 1 ; Agnes , 41-43 ; Edm . , 326 ; Ellis , 46 n . Hamelin , 42 ; Hugh , 41 , 42 , 44 ; Matilda , 326 ; Rob . , 42 Gundreda , daughter of queen Matilda , 298 


 sister of Gherbod the Fleming , 


 
 
 298 


 Gunfrid ( of Saxlingham ) , Norf . , 102 Gunnor , wife of Alan , 21 Gunora , 29 


 
 
 Gunsthorp , de , Ivo , 411 Gunthorpe , Notts . , 115 Gunton , Suss . , 58 


 Gurnay [ Gerney , Gornai , Gornay , Gurnai , Gurney , Gurneye ] , de , family , 297 , 420–423 ; -314,317 ; Basilia , 420-421 ; Beatrix , 421 ; Clemency , 314 , 317 , 318 ; Edith [ Ediva ] , 420-422 ; Gerard , 420 422 ; Hawise [ Helewise ] , 355-356 ; Hugh , 142 , 420-423 ; John , 142 , 391-392 ; Juliana , 422 , 423 Matilda , 423 ; Milicent [ Millesent ] , 421-422 ; Olive , 82 ; Will . , 391 fee , 142 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Guuiunge . ' See Wing , Bucks . Guy , butler , 300 


 clerk , 410 


 
 
 sheriff , 315 


 ( of Angmering , Suss . ) , 70 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 490] ===
 
 
 474 INDEX 


 
 
 Guy ( of Anmer , Norf . ) , 393 Gylingham , family , 119 ; Rob . , 119 , 


 
 
 I20 


 Gynay , de , Will . , 434 Gyney , de , Rog . , 319 


 
 
 HABOROUGH , Lincs . , manor , 406 Hackford , Norf . , 109 , 151-152 , 327 328 , 330 , 345-346 , 389 , 392 Haconby , Lincs . , 95 Hacun [ Hacon , Hacoun , Hakoun , Hakun ] , family , 3 ; Ann , 139 ; Cecily , 139 ; Hubert , 109 , 138–139 ; Ralph , 109 , 138 ; Ric . , 109 , 138 139 ; Rob . , 138-139 ; Tho . , 138 ; W. , 138 ; Walter , 109 ; Sir Will . , 138 


 Haddeston , Norf . , 387 , 388 ; manor , 388 


 Haddiscoe , Norf . , 119 , 120 Hadlegh [ ' Hadlega ' ] . ley , Suss . 


 Hagenet , honor , 128 , 159 Haget [ Haket ] , Alice , 44 , 45 ; Jo . , 45 , 60 ; Rob . , 44 Hailsham , Suss . , 29 Hakeford , de , Ranulf , 337 ; Will . , 326 , 328-329 


 Hakewell , de , Alice , 186 


 Hakewell , 186 


 
 
 . &lt; 


 
 
 154 


 Hales , Norf . , 108 , 155 


 
 
 Hakynton , de , John , 197 ; Rob . , 197 Halcombe , Suss . , 90 , 310 


 Haldup , Turstin , 56 


 
 
 Hale Holme , Norf . , 3 , 118 , 139-141 Hales [ Halis ] , de , family , 155 ; Rog . , 


 
 
 See Hoath 


 
 
 Halesworth , de , Rog . , 116 Halifax , Yorks . , manor , 307 Halle , atte , Joan , 30 ; Sim . , 30 Hallingbury , Essex , 94 , 95 , 167 , 288 ; manor , 167 , 280 


 Great , Essex , 165 , 168 , 273 275 , 279 


 Hallingelond , ' Suss . , 20 Halnaker , Suss . , 1 , 55–61 , 331 ; honor , 


 
 
 earl . See Warenne ( of Colchester ) , 167 ( of Petworth ) , 17 


 
 
 K 


 
 
 44 


 Halstead [ Hallested , Haustide ] , de , Rob . , 21 ; Will . , 372 Halstead , Essex , 370 , 372 , 374-375 , 402 Kent , 70 Ham , Bucks . , 85 


 [ Hamme ] , Dors . , 42 


 E. & W. , Essex , manor , 338 Suss . , 39 ; manor , 40 


 Hambledon [ ' Hameledon ' ] , Hants . , 


 I , 


 65 Hameldene , de , Joan , 367 ; Law , 367 Hamelin , 27 


 
 
 Hamerton , Hunts . , 165 , 167 , 287 291 ; manor , 168 Hamon , sewer , 5 


 
 
 Hampnett , Suss . , 58-60 , 81 


 
 
 4 


 
 
 East , Suss . , 55 , 82 , 92 le Moraunt , Suss . , 59 West , Suss . , 55 , 59 , 60 ; church , 


 
 
 56 


 Hampton [ Hamton ] , de , Peter , 8 , 60 Hampton , Little , near Arundel , 370 Maisey , Gloucs . , 90 


 Hamptonette , de , Hen . , 59 ; Rog . , 59 ; Walter , 59 


 Hamsey [ ' Hammes Say ' ] , Suss . , 296 , 305 , 312 , 313-321 ; Edwin , priest , 315 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 Hamwde , ' bridge , 315 


 Hamwell , Hants . , church , 91 ' Hanac . ' See Halnaker Handean , Suss . , 327 


 Hangelton [ Hangeltun ] , family , 80 , 346 ; Cardo , 305 , 346 ; Helias , 364 ; Joan , 346 ; Ralph , 80 , 345 ; Ric . , 80 , 346-347 ; Sim . , 327 , 345 ' Hangemara . ' See Angmering , Suss . Hangleton , Suss . , 296 , 305 , 310 , 328 , 339 , 345-346 , 351 , 359-367 ; church , 313 ; manor , 330 , 345 Hanley [ Handleye , Hanlege , Hanlegh , Hanleia , Haunle , Haunlegh , Haun ley ] , de , family , 164 ; Ralph , 269 ; Sarra , 213 ; Will . , 201 , 213 , 224 Hanningfield , Essex , 107 , 187 ; manor , 108 


 
 
 } 


 
 
 West , 400 Hansard , Will . , 351 


 Happing , Norf . , hund . , 144 Happisburgh [ Hapesburgh ] , Norf . , 3 , 153-154 , 365 ; church , 5 , 6 ; manor , 6 


 
 
 Hapton , Norf . , 102 , 107 Harang [ Hareng ] , family , 2 ; Alice , 


 69 , 228 , 239-240 ; Emma , 69 ; Felicia , 69 ; Guy , 69 ; Ralph , 69 , 228 , 231-232 , 239-240 , 412 ; Reg . , 69 ; Will . , 69 , 70 Haranges , Hugh , 52 


 Harbledown , Kent , 157-160 Hardham [ Helingham , ' Hering ham ' ] , Suss . , 20 , 91 ; canons , 92 ; church , 17 , 24 ; priory , 24 , 91 Harditone . ' See Lordington , Suss . Hardley , Norf . , 116 , 117 , 152 Hardwell , Berks . , 236 ; manor , 237 Hardwick , Beds . See Shefford Hardwick 


 Norf . , 123 


 
 
 4 


 
 
 [ ' Harerigg ' ] , Oxon . , 241 Harebeating , 310 


 Harecurt [ Harewcurt ] , de , Lucy , 63 ; Rob . , 63 , 67 ; Will . , 63 , 348 , 416 Hareham [ Harham ] , de , family , 3 ; Beatrice , 144 ; Agnes , Alice , Kath . , sisters of Beatrice , 144 ; Rog . , 144 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 491] ===
 
 
 INDEX 475 


 
 
 Harengot [ Harengod ] , 3 ; Denise , 162 ; Emma , 162 ; Felicia , 162 ; Jo . , 162 ; Ralph , 162 ; Steph . , 162 ; Will . , 162 


 Harevill , de , Rob . , 199 


 
 
 Harewood , Yorks . , manor , 173 Hargham , Norf . , 346 Haricham [ Harenham ] , de , Ranulf , 


 
 
 144 


 Harington of Cumb . , family , 424 Harkstead , Suff . , 164 , 199–201 Harlaxton , Lincs . , 386-389 Harling , de , Rob . , 432 Harling , Norf . , 147 


 
 
 East , Norf . , 141 , 325-326 , 349 West , 3 , 131–132 Harlington , Beds . , 155 , 156 , 217 ; church , 156 


 
 
 Kent , 155 


 Yorks . , mill , 416 


 
 
 Harlow , Essex , 164 , 187-189 Harpenden , Herts . , 209 Harpley , Norf . , 389 , 391–392 ; church , 389 , 391 , 437 


 
 
 Harrietsham , Kent , 184 ; lady of , 185 ; manor , 185 


 Harston , Cambs . , 276 , 288 , 387 Harthanger , Kent , 294 Harthill , Yorks . , 324 , 326 ; church , 


 416 ; manor , 326 Harting [ Herting ] , Suss . , 2 , 6 , 34 , 41 , 76 , 83-86 ; church , 89 ; leper hospital , 84 ; manor , 66 


 East , 41 


 
 
 Harrowden [ Harwedene ] , de , Rob . , 


 clerk , 233 


 Hartland , Devon , 99 Hartley , Kent , 107 , 108 Harun , de , Geoff . , 365 Haselden , Tho . , 209 


 
 
 Haseton , ' in Bethersden . See Etchden , Kent 


 
 
 Haskeby , de , Phil . , 336 


 Hasketon , Suff . , 438 ; manor , 440–441 ' Haslehangra , ' Kent , 293 Hastang , de , Cecily , 274 ; Hugh , 400 ; Humph . , 274 Hastings [ Hastinges ] , de , Hen . , 426 ; Sir Hen . , 146 , 387 ; Sir Hugh , 435 ; Jo . , 92 , 185 , 346 , 400 , 414 ; Juliana , 185 , 346 , 414 ; Law . , 132 , 185 , 346 , 400 ; Miles , 109 ; Rob . , 276 


 
 
 See Pembroke 


 Hastings , 54 n .; honor , 277 , 379 ; recluse , 10 


 
 
 Hatfield Peverel , Essex , manor , 330 Yorks . , church , 416 , 417 ; manor , 307 , 420 


 Hatley , Cambs . , 209 , 286 East , Cambs . , 207 , 208 St. George , Cambs . , 285 , 287 Haudlo [ Hautlo ] , de , Edm . , 244 ; Eliz . , 244 ; Isabel , 244 ; Joan , 244 ; Jo . , 199 , 244 ; Margt . , 244 ; Ric . , 244 Haueden , de , John , 254 Haughley , honor , 146 , 162 Haukisdene . ' See Arkesden , Essex Hausvill , de , Will . , 220 Haut ' . See Hamerton , Hunts . Hautbois [ Auboys , de Alto Bosco , Hauboys ] , family , 297 , 431–433 ; Adam , 431 ; Avice or Alice , 432 ; Eufrasia , 432 ; Helewise , 332 , 432 ; Herman , 431 ; Isabel , 432 ; Jo . , 432 , 433 n .; Margery , 432 ; Matilda , 432 ; Pet . , 332 , 425 , 431-432 ; Sir Pet . , 431-432 ; Ric . , 431-432 ; Richer , 431 ; Rog . , 432 ; Tho . , 431-432 ; Will . , 332 , 431-432 Hautbois , Norf . , 297 , 431-433 Hautein , Will . , 154 Hauteyn , le , Margery , 388 Hautrive [ de Alta Ripa , de Auterive , Hauterive ] , de , family , 1 , 2 , 24 , 91 ; Alice , 92-93 ; Andrew , 91–93 ; Cicely , 87 ; Eva , 92-93 ; Jo . , 25 , 87 , 91-93 ; Joscelin , Joscelin , 24 ; Ric . , 20 ; Rob . , 12 , 17 , 27 , 62 , 91 ; Will . , 12 , 14 , 18 , 24 , 25 , 62 , 82 , 91-93 


 Hauvill [ Hautevill , Hoivill , Houvill , Hoyvill ] , de , family , 2 , 94-96 , 165 , 175 ; Geoff . , 93-95 , 274 ; Gilb . , 95 , 274 ; Hen . , 95 ; Hugh , 95 ; Joan , 94 ; Margt . , 96 ; Mary , 96 ; Pet . , 95 ; Phil . , 95 , 96 ; Ralph , 95 , 175 , 247 ; Reg . , 94 ; Tho . , 95 , 427 ; Walter , 94 , 273-274 ; Will . , 94 , 96 , 175 , 176 , 338 Havering , de , Ric . , 205 Havering , Essex , 101 Haveringland , Norf . , 399 Hawes , manor , 246 Hawkdon , Suff . , 424 Hawkwell , Essex , 155-156 , 164 , 217-219 ; manor , 192 


 
 
 Hatcham , Surг . , 22 , 23 


 Hatfield [ Hatfeld ] , de , Adam , 294 ; Edw . , 294 ; Fina , 294 ; Jo . , 294 ; Petronilla , 294 ; Sim . , 294 Hatfield , forest , 342 ; park , 341 ; priory , 361 


 Bishop's , Herts , 207 , 293-294 ; manor , 294 


 
 
 Hay [ Hai , Haia , Haie , Haye ] , de la , family , 1 , 164 , 193 , 194 ; Athelais , 167 ; Cecily , 56 , 61 n .; Hadewise , 197 ; Hugh , 167 ; dame Isabel , 329 ; Joan , 354 ; Jo . , 354 ; Julian , 193 , 280 ; Mary , 193 ; Maurice , 107 , 193 , 197 ; Muriel , 56 ; Nicholaa , 56 ; Olive , 100 , 101 ; Petronilla , 193 ; Ralph , 12 , 56 , 100-101 , 107 , 193 , 294 , 353 ; Ranulf , 56 , 107 , 167 , 186 , 193 , 197 ; Reimund , 193 ; Ric . , 56 , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 492] ===
 
 
 476 INDEX 


 
 
 · 


 
 
 61 n .; Rob . , 56-57 , 61 , 67 , 294 , 412 ; Rog . , 60 ; Rohaise , 193 ; Saher , 193 ; Sanicula , 193 ; Sarra , 186-187 , 353 ; Sim . , 156 ; Walter , 186 , 193 , 407 ; Will . , 156 , 193–194 , 412 


 
 
 Haybourn , Suss . , park , 34 Hayling [ Haringei ' ] , Hants . , 2 , 90 , 


 94 


 
 
 Island , Hants . , 96 , 97 Heacham [ Hichebourne ] , 


 Norf . , 309 , 311 , 312 , 382 , 385 , 388 , 396 ; manor , 382 


 Headcorn , Kent , 183 Headington , Oxon . , 38 , 39 ; manor , 


 
 
 368 


 Hecham , de , Dennis , 197 ; Ellen , 197 ; Hen . , 197 


 Hechingham , de , Ellis , 104 Heckingham , Norf . , 102 , 107-108 , 117 ; manor , 107 


 Hedersete [ Hederseyt ] , de , family , 181 ; Sir Jo . , 181 ; Will . , 181 ' Hedfeld . ' See Hatfield , Herts . Hedfeld Beigham , 377 Hedingham Sibil , Essex , 49 Heendon , de , Steph . , 354 Heene , Suss . , manor , 22 , 23 Heigham Potter , Norf . , 104 , 108 Heldham , de , Tho . , 353 Helgeton [ Helweton ] , de , Alan , 398 ; Sir Herb . , 109 ; Jo . , 109 , 395 ; Rog . , 109 ; Tho . , 109 ; Sir Tho . , 109 ; Will . , 398 


 Helhoughton , Norf . , 314 , 345-346 , 398 


 Hellingley , church , 313 Helman , de , Hugh , 320 


 Helmingham , Suff . , 429 ; church , 428 Helmington , manor , 318 


 ' Heltham . ' See Holkham , Norf . Helyon [ Helion , Heliun ] , de , Rob . , 214 ; Will . , 390 


 fee , 201 , 210 ; honor , 122 Hemenhale , de , Sir Ralph , 392 Hemmegrave , de , Beatrice , 179 ; Tho . , 178 


 Hempnall , Norf . , 287 


 Hempstead , Norf . , 144 , 151–152 


 
 
 Norf . , 325 , 326 Hempton , Oxon . , 232 , 233 n . Hendon in Woodchurch , Kent , 158 , 


 
 
 159 


 Hengham [ Heingham , Heyngham ] , de , family , 3 , 152 ; Andrew , 151-152 ; Rob . , 151–152 , 430 ; Sir 


 Rob . , 430 ; Rog . , 151 ; Tho . , 


 
 
 151-152 ; Will . , 151–152 


 alias Bacon , Rog . , 152 


 
 
 P 


 
 
 Hengham , prioress of , 375 


 Henherst , Kent , manor , 289 


 Henley , family , 164 ; Hubert , 207 ; 


 
 
 Will . , 207 


 Henley , Suff . , 164 , 207 


 
 
 Henlow , Beds . , 165 , 261-262 Henstead , Suff . , 322 , 328 , 333 Hepworth , Suff . , 360 


 Herbert , brother of earl Rainald , 38 ( of Hapton , Norf . ) , chamber lain , 102 clerk , 118 


 ( of Ringleton , Kent ) , 155 Herbertinges . See Harebeating Herbethinges , de , Will . , 310 ' Herbretiton . ' See Harbledown , Kent 


 
 
 C 


 
 
 ' Herbylton . ' See Harbledown , Kent Herceam , 309 


 
 
 Herdinghelei , church , 311 Herebrand , 311 


 Hereford , countesses - 104 ; Cecily , 104-106 ; Matilda de Clare , 242 


 earls 39 , 158-159 , 212 ; Humph . de Bohun , 177 , 252 ; Rog . , 105 ; Will . Fitz - Osbern , 234 , 237 


 
 
 See Bohun , de , Clare , de , and Fitz - Osbern 


 Gilb . Foliot , bishop of , 234 Jew of . See Jews sheriff of , 28 Hereward , 298 


 ( of Barton , Suff . ) , 360 Herfred ( of Gatton ) , 313 Herindenne , de , Hugh , 159 Heringod , Christina , 162 , 163 Heriz , de , Ives , 418 , 419 Herlawe [ Helawe , Herlaue ] , de , family , 164 ; Gilb . , 187 ; Joan , 188 ; Matilda , king's nurse , 188 ; Walter , 188 ; Will . , 188 Herlebold in Wereham , 396 Herlewin ( of Upwaltham , Suss . ) , 90 Herling [ Herlinges ] , de , family , 3 ; Hugh , 131 ; Ralph , 131 


 Hermer ( of Tuddenham , Norf . ) , 148 Hermit of Losfield , Beds . , 268 Hernum , de , Ranulf , 7 Herpelai . See Harpley 


 Herpingden [ ' Herbertinges ' ] , Suss . , 322 


 
 
 Herpingham , de . See Erpingham Herring [ Heryng ] , Ric . , 163 Herringfleet , St. Olave , Suff . , prior of , 120 , 120 n . 


 Herringswell , Suff . , 342-344 Hersham , Essex , 215 


 Herst [ Herste ] , de , Idonea , 376 ; Rob . , 376 ; Waleran , 376-377 ; Walter , 376 Herst , Norf . , 432 


 Suss . , 305-306 , 310 


 Hertangre , de , Will . , 294 


 Herterst , Suff . , 365 


 Hertesbirie . ' See Berry Herbert 


 
 
 Hertford , de , Will . , 109 


 See also Gloucester 


 
 
 A 


 
 
 Hertford , 269 , 294 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 493] ===
 
 
 INDEX 477 


 
 
 Hesset ( or Heyshott ] , de , Hen . , 21 27 Hethenden [ Hethendenn , Hethinden , Hethyndenne ] , de , Everard , 158 ; Hubert , 160 ; Ralph , 159 ; Ran dulf , 158 ; Tho . , 160 ; Will . , 158 fee , 159 


 Hethersett , Norf . , 139 Hethindenn ' 


 See 


 [ Hethingden ] . Hendon in Woodchurch , Kent Heure [ Heuere ] , de , Hawise , 70 ; Ralph , 70 ; Tho . , 70 


 Heure , Kent , 70 


 
 
 Heyburn , Suss . , 33 


 Heydon , Norf . , 319 , 440-441 ; church , 


 
 
 439 


 Heyford Warin , Oxon . , 227 , 229–233 ; 


 
 
 manor , 173 


 Heylesdon , de , Hen . , 110 Heyshott , Suss . , 1 , 16 , 18-20 , 27 , 30 , 65 , 92 , 353 ; chapel , 17 Heytesbury , Wilts . , 37-38 , 


 40 ; 


 manor , 39 Heyth , de , Adam , 122 ; Isabel , 122 Hibaldstow , Lincs . , 417 Hickling , Norf . , 108 , 430 ; canons of , 105 


 Higham [ Hecham ] , de , Rob . , 197 Higham , Kent , 164 , 166 , 197 , 273 by Tamese , ' Kent , 197 


 Suff . , 193 , 401 ; church , 193 , 197 Hilborough [ Hildeburchworth ] , Norf . , 296 , 382-383 ; parson , 384 Hildesley [ Hildesle ] , de , Isabel , 244 ; Rob . , 244 


 
 
 Hilgay , Norf . , 381 ; manor , 426 Hillcot , Wilts . , 214 


 
 
 Hillegh , de , Hugh , 125 Hillington , Norf . , 104 , 107 , 213 , 297 , 395 , 426 , 442-443 ; manor , 173 , 435 


 
 
 by Castle Rising , Norf . , 428 by Norwich , 109 Hilperton , Wilts . , 163 


 Hinckford , Essex , hund . , 175 


 
 
 Hingan , Walter , 56 Hingham , Norf . , 


 151 , 152 , 391 ; 


 manor , 143 


 Hingindon . ' See Ovingdean , Suss . Hingoldestorp . See Ingoldesthorpe Hintlesham , Suff . , manor , 421 Hinton [ ' Heanton ' ] , Hants , 79 Wilts . , 250 Daubeny , in Hants . , 2 , 77-79 


 Catherington , 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Hinxton , Cambs . , 64 


 Hitcham , Suff . , 361 ; manor , 128 


 Hittin , battle , 250 


 
 
 Ho , manor , 318 


 Hoathley , Suss . , 324 , 325 ; church , 


 
 
 312 , 314 


 
 
 &lt; 


 
 
 West , 326 


 
 
 Hobuist . ' See Hautbois , Norf . Hockham , Norf . , 108 ; church , 103 Hockwell , Norf . , 330 


 
 
 Hockwold , Norf . , 115 , 327–329 , 349 ; church , 329 


 
 
 Hocton , de , Hugh , 371 Hoel , Phil . , 351 


 Hoke , Le , wood , in Arundel , 92 Hokeday , term , 15 


 Hokewolde , de , John , 329 Holand , de , Rob . , 245 


 Holbech , de , Law . , 189 ; Margt . , 189 Holbosia , de , Reiner , 431 ; Rog . , 431 See Hautbois 


 Holderness , 189 , 282 


 Holebroke [ Holbrok ] , family , 212 ; Will . , 137 


 Holecote , de , Will . , 265 


 Holefen , de , Hen . , 127 


 Holer , Ernald le , 11 


 
 
 Holewelle Hall , in East Tudenham , Norf . , 367 


 Holkham , Norf . , 2 , 102–110 , 102-110 , 125-127 , 


 
 
 152 


 Holme ( Hulme ) , Norf . , 118 , 119 , 431 St. Benet's abbey , 431 


 abbots - 317 ; Reg . , 431 ; Tho . , 


 
 
 129 


 next Ringstead , Norf . , Roland , dean of , 117 [ Hale Holme ] , 


 next - the - Sea Norf . , 118 


 of Grain , Kent , 194 Yorks . , manor , 441 Holmes , Herts . , manor , 198 Holt , Norf . , manor , 359 


 
 
 and Cley , in Sunworth , Hants . , 


 
 
 54 Holverstone , Norf . , 138 Holvyston , de , Rob . , 109 Holwell , Beds . , 332 


 Little , Herts . , 294 Holweton , de , Mich . , 401 Homewoods , bridge , 300 Hommet , Le , toll , 81 See Humet 


 
 
 Honeydon , Beds . , 265 Honinton , de , John , 243 Hoo , Kent , 160 , 350 


 
 
 Allhallows , Kent , 350 


 St. Werburgh , Kent , 164 , 167 , 193 , 197 


 Norf . , 398-399 


 
 
 Hoole , Much , Lancs . , 53 , 54 n . Hopton , Suff . , 124 , 360 


 Horbling , Lincs . , 105 


 Horemere , Suss . , 66 Horkesley [ Horkele , Horkelegh ] , de , family , 165 , 276 ; Rob . , 276 ; Sir Rob . , 276 ; Walter , 276 ; Will . , 276 Horkesley , Essex , 276 , 277 


 Little , Essex , priory , 276 Hormead , Herts . , 107 , 266 ; manor , 266 


 
 
 Little , Herts . , 108 Horn , Avice , 410 ; Jo . , 410 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 494] ===
 
 
 478 INDEX 


 
 
 Hornby Castle , Lancs . , 57 Horndon , 222 


 Essex , 29 , 410 


 -on - the - Hill , Essex , 106 , 409 


 
 
 Hornetoft , Norf . , 399 Hornley , Oxon . , 229 Horsford , barony , 321 Horsham , priory , 314 , 316 


 St. Faith's , Norf . , 316 Horsley , Gloucs . , 2 , 90 


 West , Surr . , manor , 216 Horsted Keynes , Suss . , 62 , 313 Horwode , de , Christina , 89 ; Tho . , 89 ; Will . , 89 


 Hose [ Hosatus , Huse , Husee ] , family , I , 2 , 52 , 83-86 ; Avice or Amice , 84 ; Cecily , 85 ; Clemence , 84 ; Geoff . , 34 , 84-85 ; Gundreda , 34 ; Hawise , 34 ; Hen . , 33-34 , 83-86 , 339 ; Hubert , 84-85 ; Hugh , 84-85 ; Joan , 33-34 ; Mabel , 34 ; Mark , 34 ; Matt . , 33 , 85 , 86 ; Ric . , 101 Hospinel , Agnes , 94 ; Romin , 94 Hospitallers , the , 26 , 65 , 84 , 165 , 


 210 , 243 , 252 , 254-255 , 261 , 265 , 267-268 , 293 , 321 , 376 ; prior , 261 Hotoft [ Hoctot , Hotot , Hottot ] , de , 11 , 69 ; Emma , 69 ; Hawise , 70 ; Pet . , 69 , 70 ; Rob . , 69 , 70 Houbrugg , de , Ric . , 336 Houel , Joan , 138 ; Nich . , 138 Houghton , chase , 14 


 Norf . , 314 , 370-373 , 375 


 in the Hole [ ' Houtone Gemere ' ] , Norf . , 320 , 326 


 
 
 Drayton , Hants . , 90 


 Regis , Beds . , 422 ; manor , 421 Houndean , Suss . , manor , 307 Houvill . See Hauvill 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Hoverbrok , ' Norf . , 118 


 Hoveton , Norf . , 431 


 Howe [ Ho , Hoe , Hoo , Hou , Houwe ] , de [ atte ] , family , 3 , 209 ; Agatha , 109 ; Barthol . , 137 ; Beatrice , 209 ; Cath . , 200 ; Gilb . , 137 ; Joan , 138 , 209 ; Jo . , 138 , 387 , 398 ; Lettice , sister of Joan , 138 ; Miles , 137-138 ; Sir Miles , 138 ; Ralph , 137 , 138 ; Ranulf , 137 ; Rob . , 209 ; Rog . , 137 , 180 ; Sampson , 388 , 399 ; Tho . , 209 ; Will . , 59 , 137 , 200 Howe , Norf . , 137-138 , 333 ; church , 138 


 Howes , Cambs . , 262 Howick , Suss . , 26 Howsham , Essex , 297 


 Hall in Matching , 409-410 ; manor , 342 , 415 Hubert , archbp . See Canterbury ' Hubtinton . ' See Harbledown , Kent Hudeston in Bunwell , Norf . , 303 , 385 Hugh , despencer , 223 


 nepos of Hubert , 157 sheriff of Lewes , 370 


 
 
 Essex , 


 
 
 Hugh ( of Bilsham , in Yapton , Suss . ) , 49 


 
 
 ( of Chithurst , Suss . ) , 52 ( of Denver , Norf . ) , 380 ( of Fincham , Norf . ) , 381 ( of Hamsey , Suss . ) , 314 ( of Larling , Norf . ) , 322 ( of Ringshall , Suff . ) , 246 Hugelin , 311 


 Hulme [ Hulm , Hulma , Hulmo , Humme ] , del , Alice , 139 , 140 ; Amisia , 139 , 140 ; Amot , Amot , 140 ; Cecily , 139 , 140 ; Isabel , 328 ; Maximus , 140 


 Hulme , St. Benet , Norf . , abbey , 102 , 103 , 425 , 431-432 


 abbots 432 ; Adam , 425 ; Anselm , 103 ; Richer , 102 


 Hulmo . ' See Hale Holme , Norf . Humber , river , 170 Humberston , Lincs . , abbey , 418 Humet [ Hommet , Hulmeto , Humez ] , 


 de , family , 2 , 165 , 282 ; Ric . , 81 ; Ric . , constable , 81 ; Rob . , 81 ; Will . , 13 , 67 , 81 , 282 , 283 ; Will . , constable , 81 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 Humme . ' See Hale Holme , Norf . Humphrey ( of Boxgrove , Suss . ) , 55 ( of Broome , Norf . ) , 123 ( of Patcham , Suss . ) , 299 


 ( of Steeple Aston , Oxon . ) , 182 Hundon , Suff . , 344 


 Hungerford , Bucks . , 85 


 Hungrave , de , Edm . , 179 Hungres - wauton . ' East , Norf . 


 Hunstanton [ Hunestaneston , Hun stane , Hunston ] , de , family , 2 ; Godfrey , 59 ; Helewise , 117 ; Ralph , 117 , 118 ; Sim . , 118 ; Will . , 59 ; Sir Will . , 59 Hunstanton , Norf . , 3 , 117 , 119 , 154– 155 , 385 


 Hunston , Suss . , 55 , 58-60 


 St. Leger , Suss . , church , 56 Hunt , Edwin , 30 Huntingfeld [ Huntingefeld , Hunt yngfeld ] , de , family , 435 ; Hawise , 192 ; Isabel , 396-397 ; Sir Jo . , 192 ; Pet . , 192 ; Rog . , 440 ; Will . , 396 , 435 , 440 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 See Walton , 


 
 
 Huntingdon , de , Agnes , 286 ; Dreu , 286 ; Jo . , 292 ; Tho . , 286 Huntingdon , countesses Judith , 244 , 248 ; Juliana de Clinton , 185 earl - Will . de Clinton , 161 , 185 honor , 172 , 244 ; prior , 334 Huntingdon , Nich . , archdeacon of , 287 


 Hunton , Norf . , 308 n . Huntsman . See Drew 


 Huperton , Suss . , 41 Hurst , Suss . , 375 , 377 


 Hurstmonceaux , Suss . , 296 , 375–378 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 495] ===
 
 
 INDEX 479 


 
 
 Hurstpierpoint , Suss . , 296 , 331-333 , 368 , 378 


 Hurtmore ( in Godalming ) , Surr . , 347 Huscarl , Margt . , 70 ; Rolland , 70 Huse [ Husee ] . See Hose 


 Husland , Suff . , 204 Huvel , Mary , 274 ; Steph . , 274 


 
 
 ICKBOROUGH [ Ickburgh , Ikeburgh ] , Norf . , 375 , 385 ; church , 313 Ickenham , Midd . , 372 Ickesford . See Yoxford 


 
 
 Icklesham , Suss . , 379 Icklingham , Suff . , 214-216 Ickwell , Beds . , 165 , 180 , 255 , 265 Idsall , Salop , 37 , 39 ; manor , 4 Iffley , Oxon . , 171 , 173 


 Ifield , Kent , 70 


 Suss . , 330 


 
 
 Iford , Suss . , 296 , 305 , 307 , 310 , 334– 338 , 383 ; church , 298 , 309 Ilbert . See Rakinton , de Ilketeshale , de , Gilb . , 286 ; Tho . , 286 Illegh [ Illeie , Illeigh ] , de , Hen . , 122 ; Hugh , 125 , 126 ; Kath . , 122 


 Illesart , ' Suss . , 90 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 Illington , de , Ralph , 384 ; Will . , 383 Illington , Norf . , 132 , 296 , 382-384 Ilsington , Norf . , 427 


 Incewrth . ' See Intwood , Norf . 


 Ineshawe , Norf . , 329 


 Inga ' ( in Pitsea ) , Essex , 220 Inge , Sir John , 60 Ingelger , 65 


 Ingelose , de , family , 2 ; Hervey , 7 , 8 , 116 ; Jo . , 116 ; Martin , 116 ; Reg . , 116 ; Rob . , 117 ; Sir Rob . , 116 ; Will . , 116 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 Inglose [ Golosa , ' Ingelose ] , Norf . , 2 , 116-117 Ingoldesthorpe [ Ingaldesthorpe , In gledesthorp , Ingoldisthorpe ] , Norf . , 213 , 385 , 393-396 , 399 , 402-405 ; lady of , 404 ; manor , 146 , 213 , 404 , 427 


 
 
 Ingoldesthorpe [ Hingoldestorp , In galdestorp , Ingaudestorp , In goldestorp , Ingoldestrop ] , family , 3 , 145 , 297 , 394 , 425 ; Alan , 145 , 425-426 ; Beatrice , 146 ; dame Beatrice , 427 ; Edm . , 329 ; Ela , 146 , 427 ; Isabel , 213 , 426 ; Joan , III , 114 , 427 ; John , 139 , 426–427 ; Sir John , 146 ; Matilda , 426 Rob . , 425-426 ; Sibyl , 111 , 426 ; Tho . , 14 , III , 114 , 145 , 146 , 213 , 328 , 394-395 , 424 , 426-427 , 442 ; Master Tho . , 427 ; Will . , 427 Ingram , parson of Sandy , Beds . , 267 Ingreda , wife of Godric , sewer , 102 Inland , ' Suss . , 73 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Insula . See L'Isle . de 


 Intwood , Norf . , 164 , 180-181 


 
 
 Ion , Beds . , 180 , 181 Ippolitts , Kent , 293 Ipswich , 176 , 178 , 439 ; W. , prior of , 180 


 Ireland , army , 368 , 377 ; scutage , 10 , 97 , 99 , 304 


 Irmingland , Norf . , 366 , 395 , 399 Iron Eye [ Oculus ferreus ] , 310 , 375 Irthlingborough , N'hants . , 51 , 411 Isabel , countess , 31 , 327 , 328 


 [ Isabella ] , queen , 15 , 36 , 116 , 119 , 135 , 141 , 143 , 150 , 152 , 154 Isemburn . ' See Easebourne , Suss . Isfield , Suss . , 353 ; manor , 354 Isle , the . See Wight Islesfold , de , Alan , 93 Islingham , Kent , 107 Islington , in Tilney , Norf . , manor , Midd . , 214 , 216 


 150 


 Istan , -III , 114 ; Isabel , 114 ; Philippa , 114 


 Itchenor , Suss . , 58-60 Itteringham , Norf . , 297 , 299 , 437 Ivaus , Ralph , 232 


 Ivo ( of Mid Lavant , Suss . ) , 65 ; ( of Pulborough , Suss . ) , 33 Ixworth , Norf . , priory , 103 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 JENYVER , Hen . , 59 


 Jernemue . ' See Yarmouth , Great Jernemuth [ Jernemue ] , de , Charles , 116 , 117 ; Rob . , 109 ; Will . , 116 , 117 ; Sir Will . , 117 


 Jerpoint , in Kilkenny , abbey , 113 Jersey , 369 


 
 
 Jerusalem , 42 , 125 , 238 , 351 , 371 , 424 ; St , Lazarus ' , lepers of , 41 ; see Hospitallers Jester , 353 


 
 
 Jeudewyn , Matilda , 75 ; Ric . , 75 Jevington , Suss . , manor , 329 Jews , custody of , 380 ; Abraham of Berkhampstead , SS ; Brunus of London , 183 , 381 ; Deulebencie of Rising , Norf . , 112 , 125 ; Isaac of Norwich , 140 , 180 , 317 ; of Here ford , 183 ; Mosse , 250 Joan , sister to Hen . III , 204 Joas , Ralph , 191 


 mar 


 Joce , Eliz . , 278 ; John , 278 John , chamberlain , 390 , 424 ; shal , 347 , 348 ; nephew of Waleran , 117 , 146 ; parson of Warblington , Hants . , 97 ; of Selham , Suss . , 21 ; seneschal , 155 , 218 , 220 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Jona . II 


 • 


 Joppa , 396 


 Jordan , seneschal of the Duke of Saxony , 97 


 Joscelin [ Regalis ] of Louvain , the castellan , 9 , 10 , 11 , 17 , 18 , 24 , 26 , 27 , 30 , 41 , 65 , 84 , 91 , 353 , 443 ; Joscelin , nephew , 12 , 91 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 496] ===
 
 
 480 INDEX 


 
 
 Joslain , constable , 310 , 313 Judeysmy , ' debt , 216 Judith , countess . Jumieges , abbey , 339 Justiciar of England , 343 


 
 
 See Huntingdon 


 
 
 KAILI [ Kailli , Kailli ] , de . Kaineto [ Kaisneto ] , de . Kancia , de , Tho . , 219 Karevill , de . See Chervill Kari , de . See Carey Karon [ Karun ] . See Carun Kauneto [ Kayneto , Kaysneto ] , de . See Chesney Kaveresfeld Caversfield 


 See 


 
 
 See Cailli See Chesney 


 
 
 [ Kaveresfeud ] . 


 Kaylli [ Kayly ] , de . See Cailli 


 Kaynes , de , Rob . , 354 Kedington , Suff . , lady of , 417 ; 


 
 
 manor , 417 


 Keidneto , de . See Chesney 


 
 
 ' Kelinge or Kelingt . ' See Kenning tons , Essex 


 
 
 ' Kelituna . ' See Kenningtons , Essex Kelling , de , Hugh , 147 ; Rob . , 147 Kelling , Norf . , 375 ; church , 147 Kelshall , Herts . , 207 


 
 
 Kemberton , Salop , 91 ; manor , 4 Kemerton , Gloucs . , 170 , 172 ; church , 


 
 
 170 


 Kempston , Norf . , 395-396 , 399 ; church , 396 


 Kemsing , Kent , 217-218 , 220 ; manor , 218 


 
 
 Kenemondwick 


 [ Kenemundewich ] . See Kinwick Field , Beds . Kenet , family , 296 , 343 ; Emma , 343 ; Isabel , 343 ; Nich . , 342-344 ; Nicholaa , 343 , 345 n .; Pet . , 305– 306 , 343 ; Ric . , 343 Keneteswell , de , Rog . , 317 Kenilworth , 108 , 205 , 266 ; award , 92 , 161 , 419 , 434-435 ; dictum , 358 Kenion , Ralph , 67 


 Kennet , Cambs . , 296 , 342–344 Kennetsford , Cambs . , 343 , 344 Kenninghall , Norf . , 13 , 131 ; manor , 


 4 , 14 


 Kennington , Surr . , manor , 307 Kenningtons , Essex , 400 ' Kenoutone . ' See Knowlton Kent , countesses - 272 ; Margt . , 179 ; Margt . de Burgh , 324 


 earls - Edm . , 15 , 16 , 47 , 54 , 64 , 68 , 70 , 179 , 216 ; Hubert de Burgh , 272 , 323 ; Jo . , 272 ; Ric . , 47 Kenton , Devon , manor , 179 Kenwick ' Kenewic ' ] , in Tilney , 


 
 
 Norf . , 309 , 426 ; manor , 427 Kepston , de , Tho . , 25 Kerdeston [ Kerdyston ] , de , Will . , 109 , 


 
 
 319 


 Kerdiston , Norf . , 314 , 320 


 
 
 C 


 
 
 Keresfeld . ' 


 See Caversfield 


 Kernewiz . ' See Cranwick , Norf . Kersey , Suff . , 361 ; church , 362–363 ; manor , 178-179 ; St. Anthony's priory , 362-363 


 Kesildele , de , Geoff . , 118 , 132 Kessingland , Suff . , 332 Keswick , Norf . , 441 Ketteringham , Norf . , 132 Kettleburgh , Suff . , 363 Kettlestone , Norf . , 325 , 326 , 402 Keymer [ Keynor ] , Suss . , 58–60 , 339 ; church , 312 , 314 ; manor , 307 Kimberley [ Kemburle ] , de , Gilb . , 147 Kimberley [ Kineburn ' ] , Norf . , 142 , 147 ; church , 421 ; manor , 142 , 143 Kimbolton , Hunts . , 250 Kinalton , Notts . , 53 


 
 
 C 


 
 
 Kingesfeld , ' Essex , 198 Kingesham , Suss . , assart , 83 Kingscliffe , forest , 284 Kingsford , 310 


 Kingsholme , Gloucs . , 78 King's nurse , 188 


 Kingston [ Kingeston , Kyngeston ] , family , 296 ; Phil . , 370 ; Rob . , 370 ; Warin , 305 , 370 


 Kingston , Cambs . , 207 , 388-389 ; manor , 387 , 389 


 
 
 Surr . , 407 


 Suss . , 305 , 334 , 336 ; manor , 336 ; mill , 370 


 in Swanborough hund . , 370 


 
 
 by Lewes , Suss . , 296 , 305 , 310-311 , 370 ; church , 311 


 by the Sea [ Kingston Bucy ] , Suss . , 296 , 351-352 


 
 
 next Shoreham , Suss . , manor , 72 Lisle , Berks . , 164 , 171-172 , 174 , 223-224 


 
 
 Kington , honor , 191 Kinredeford , Suss . , 50 


 Kinwick [ Cirnindewyk ] , de , Andrew , 264 


 Kinwick Field [ Chenemondewiche , Kenemondwick , Kinemondwick ] , 


 
 
 in Sandy , Beds . , 165 , 254 , 263-264 Kipston , Suss . , 59 Kirkby [ Kirkebi , Kirkeby , Kyrkeby ] , de , Christina , 162 , 163 , 255 ; Gilb . , 195 ; Sir Jo . , 184 ; Lora , 195 ; Will . , 162-163 , 255 


 
 
 Kirkby , Ralph , prior of , 415 


 Bellers , Leics . , 162 Cane , Norf . , 155 


 
 
 Kendal , barons of , 183 


 Overblow , Yorks . , manor , 174 Underwood , Lincs . , 105 


 Kirk Levington , Yorks . , manor , 18 Kirstead , Norf . , 136 


 Knap , Suss . , park , 328 Knapp , 351 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 497] ===
 
 
 INDEX 481 


 
 
 Knapton , Norf . , 338 ; fee , 337 ; manor , 336 Knaresborough , Yorks . , constable of , 416 


 Knebworth , Herts . , 164 , 207-209 Knight [ Knycht ] , le , Elvered , 374 Knighton , Leics . , manor , 245 Wilts . , 85 , 86 


 Knipsho ( in Mayland ) , Essex , 206 Knockin , Salop , 119 


 Knokk , ' Kent , 159 Knolland , Suss . , 380 


 Knovill [ Onovill ] , de , Bogo , 374 ; 


 Eleanor , 374 ; Hugh , 374 Knowlton , Kent , 3 , 7 , 155-157 ; chapel , 155 , 217 ; lady of , 185 


 
 
 ✔ 


 
 
 Koc , Tho . , 394 , 395 Kokefeld . See Cockfield 


 Kotes , de , Thurs. , 26 Kylmundewyk . Field , Beds . 


 
 
 ✔ 


 
 
 Kyme , de , Matilda , 247 Kyngisford , ' Suss . , 379 Kynosedeleye . See Kesildele Kyrkeby . See Kirkby Kyvelers , de , Pet . , 102 


 
 
 # 


 
 
 → 


 
 
 See Kinwick 


 
 
 L'ABBE , Will . , 245 Lacneppe , Suss . , 66 


 Laghefare [ Lagefare ] , de , Eustace , 


 269 


 La Hulstre , ' Suss . , 20 


 L'Aigle , honor , 329 Lakenheath , Suff . , 268 ; fishery , 270 Lamare , de , Alice , 175 ; Rob . , 175 


 Lamarsh , Essex , 29 Lamberhurst , Kent , 343 Lambert ( of Waterdene , Norf . ) , 322 ( of Yen Hall ) , 322 


 Lambeth , 73 


 Lambpet , de , John , 404 Lampeth , ' Kent , 293 


 Lancaster , de , Hen . , 414 ; Matilda , 414 ; Sir Rog . , 184 ; Will . , 183 Lancaster , earls - 424 ; Edm . , 414 , 440 ; Tho . , 305 , 344 


 Lancaster , 53 ; honor , 128 , 129 , 301 , 364-367 , 438-440 ; priory , 52 Lanceleve , Sir Rog . , 272 Lancing , Suss . , 92 ; manor , 72 Landry , de , Aumauri , 158 ' Lanekestrode , ' Suss . , 377 


 
 
 Langdon [ Langedun ] , de , John , 221 


 &lt; 


 Langdon [ ' Landun , ' un , Langoton ' ] , 


 Essex , 164 , 221 , 271 


 Langetot , de , family , 38 , 164 , 165 ; Alice , 62 , 227 , 234 , 238 ; Emma , 38 ; Miles , 62 , 155 ; Muriel , 38 ; Nich . , 388 ; Ralph , 61 , 62 , 227–228 , 234 , 238 


 Langford , family , 175 Langford , Beds . , 261 


 
 
 Essex , 175 ; manor , 176 


 
 
 III . 


 
 
 Langham , de , Cecily , 158 ; Will . , 158 Langham , Norf . , 366 , 367 Langley , de , Edm . , 441 Langley , abbey , 107 , 136 


 abbots - 108 , 117 , 151 ; Gilb . , 


 116 


 
 
 Essex , 175 


 Kent , 182-184 ; lady of , 185 ; manor , 185 


 [ ' Langhale ' ] , Norf . , 136 Langney , in Westham , 313 Langport , Suss . , 33 , 42 Langton [ Langeton ] , de , Denise , 106 , 266 ; Master Sim . , 106 ; Steph . , 266 ; Walter , 106 , 266 


 
 
 Langton , Lincs . , 106 Lanvalei [ Lanvalay , Lanvaley ] , de , family , 165 , 280 , 289 , 291 ; Clemency , 288 ; Gunnora , 251 , 273 , 287-291 ; Hawise , 253 , 280 , 288-291 ; Matilda , 288-289 , 219 ; Ralph , 287-289 ; Will . , 168 , 251 , 273 , 280 , 287-291 ; Sir Will . , 273 , 288 


 
 
 barony , 168 , 280 , 290 , 291 Laodicea , 301 , 316 


 Larling , Norf . , 322 , 325 , 326 , 380–382 ; manor , 326 


 Larlingge . See Lirling 


 
 
 Lascy [ Lacy , Lasci ] , de , Elena , III ; Gilb . , III ; Hen . , 248 , 413 ; Ilbert , 419 ; Jo . , 399 ; Walter , 105 ' Lasela . ' See Litlelee , Kent Lasham , Hants . , 355-359 ; manor , 340 Latchingdon , Essex , 205 Latimer [ Latimere ] , le , Alice , 256 , 264 ; Eliz . , 268 ; Jo . , 264 ; Nich . , 264 ; Rob . , 157 ; Tho . of Wardon , 173 ; Will . , 256 , 268 Latton , Essex , manor , 211 Laval , de , Guy , 243 


 Lavant , Suss . , 20 , 67 ; church , 313 Mid , Suss . , 65 , 66 West , Suss . , 45 


 Laver , High and Little , Essex , 269 Lavingdon [ Lavendon ] , Bucks . , 165 , 244 


 
 
 Wilts . , 414 


 Laweland , ' Suss . , 341 


 Lawford , Essex , 178-179 ; manor , 


 179 


 Lawling , Essex , 271 


 
 
 · 


 
 
 Laye , la , Ric . , 43 


 Layer [ ' Lagefare ' ] , Essex , 164 , 193 , 269 


 Layer Breton , Essex , 164 , 167 , 199-201 , 212-213 


 Suff . , 


 de la Haye , Essex , 107 , 193 Little , Essex , 270 Layham [ Lafham ] , 177-179 , 359 , 361 Layston , Herts . , 268 Leche , de , Edm . , 399 


 
 
 2 I 


 
 
 164 , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 498] ===
 
 
 482 INDEX 


 
 
 Lechesham , de , Ric . , 396 Lecton , de , Master Will . , 28 ' Ledecirca . ' See Lilly Church , Kent Ledenham , Lincs . , 406 Ledes , de , Geoff . , 59 Ledet [ Leydet ] , family , 164 , 202 , 264 ; Christiana , 263 ; Emma , 202 ; Joan , 201 ; Rob . , 201-202 ; Wal ter , 202 ; Wischard [ Wiscard ] , 208 , 263 


 Ledhok , Kent , 292 


 Leeds , Kent , manor , 184 


 
 
 priors - 158 , 198 ; Fulk , 197 Lees , Essex , 271 Leesingham , 188 Lefquene , wife of Peter son of Ralph , 394 


 
 
 Legh [ Leghe , Ley , Leye , Lyegh ] , de , 


 Ada , 260 ; Adam , 260 ; Emma , 31 , 34 , 98 ; Hen . , 31 , 34 , 98 , 260 , 272 ; Hugh , 260 ; Rog . , 242 , 259 , 260 ; Walter , 260 


 ' Lehe , ' Kent , 195 


 Leicester [ Leicestre ] , de , Ric . , 286 ; Walter , 286 


 Leicester , 245 


 
 
 abbey ( La Pré ) , 245 ; abbot , 


 
 
 245 


 
 
 archdeacon , 227 countess - Petronilla , 245 earls - 135 , 198 , 286 ; Hen . , 414 ; Rob . , 245 ; Rob . de Meulan , 246 fee , 165 ; honor , 245 


 Leighs , Essex , manor , 205 ; priory , 204 


 Lek , de , Will . , 109 


 ' Leleseia . ' See Lindsey , Suff . Lemmer ( of Cockfield , Suff . ) , 360 Lenham , Kent , 199 , 294 


 
 
 Lenn , Norf . , 320 


 Leonius , servant , 387 


 L'Essay , Holy Trinity , abbey , 56 , 57 ; monks of , 12 , 101 ; Rob . , abbot , IOI 


 
 
 Lessingham [ Lisingham ] , Norf . , 421 L'Estrange [ Extraneus , Strange , 


 
 
 Straunge ] , family , 2 , 118 , 296 , 443 ; Eleanor , 373 ; Emma , 390-391 ; Fulk , 375 ; Hamon , 77 , 119 , 390 ; Sir Hamon , 119 ; Isabel , 119 ; Iseult , 119 ; Joan , 118 ; Jo . , 76 77 , 117-119 , 132 , 335 , 347 , 385 386 , 390 ; Margt . , 119 ; Matilda , 117 , 390 ; Ralph , 390-391 ; Rob . , 373 ; Rodland , 396 ; Rog . , 443 ; Roland , 117 


 
 
 Letheringsett , Norf . , 151 , 152 Letselina , wife of Ralph son of 


 Godric , 102 


 Letton , Norf . , 327 , 330 Levenod , 310 Levington , Suff . , 324 Lew , Oxon . , 231 , 240 Lewes , de , Master Hen . , 346 


 
 
 Lewes , Suss . , 82 , 297 , 307 , 308 , 345 , 349 , 380 ; barony , 326 ; battle , 146 , 161 , 198 , 333 , 398 , 419 , 426 ; borough , 300 , 315 ; castle and manor , 298 , 307 , 308 , 322 , 377 , 420 ; churches [ named ] , 311 ; fee , 394 ; honor , 320 , 326 , 346 ; honor of Warenne , 296-443 


 
 
 St. Pancras , priory , 17 , 24-27 , 33 , 37-39 , 44 , 52 , 56 , 62 , 65 , 69 , 90-91 , 97 , 155 , 297-301 , 308-313 , 327-328 , 331 , 334 , 339 , 347 , 351 356 , 363 , 370-372 , 375 , 379 , 381 382 , 385 , 389 , 394 , 405 , 407 , 416 , 420 , 423 , 432 , 437 ; monks , 16 , 25-26 , 38 , 52 , 62 , 300 , 322 , 334 , 345 , 354 , 390 ; priors - 20 , 24 , 39 , 44 , 76 , 325 , 340–341 , 358 , 374 , 417 ; Albert , 341 ; Guichard , 332 ; Hugh , 416 ; Jo . , 92 ; Lanzo , 312 ; Osbert , 327 ; Will . , 425 


 Lexden , Essex , 167 , 175 , 205-206 , 288 Lexham , Norf . , 279 , 395 , 396 , 399 East , Norf . , church , 396 ; manor , 400 


 
 
 - 


 
 
 West , Norf . , 398 Leybourne , Kent , 164 , 182-186 Leyburn [ Leiburn , Leybourn ] , de , family , 3 , 164 , 182 ; Agnes , 183 ; Alice , 161 , 185 ; dame Amica , 182 ; Eleanor , 182 , 184 ; Florence , 183 ; Hen . , 157 ; Jo . , 183 ; Juliana , 157 , 161 , 184-185 ; Margt . , 182 ; Phil . , 182 , 185 ; Rob . , 182 ; Rog . , 31 , 182-185 , 221 ; Sir Rog . , 184 Tho . , 161 , 185 ; Will . , 156-157 , 161 , 184-185 ; Sir Will . , 184 Leye , Kent , manor , 336 Leyham , family , 164 , 178-179 ; Hawise , 192 ; Joan , 178-179 ; Jo . , 179 ; Margery , 178-179 ; Margt . , 362 ; Matt . , 178 , 215 , 362-363 : Sir Matt . , 178 ; Nesta , 178 , 215 , 362-363 ; Master Nich . , 178 ; Olive , 179 ; Osbern , 249 ; Osbert , 178 Pet . , 178-179 ; Philippa , 178 ; Will . , 178 Leyton , Essex , 182 , 401 Lezignan , de , Geoff . , 440 Liddel , 142 


 
 
 Lilleshall , canons of , 372 Lilly Church , nr . Higham , Kent , 166 , 273 ; mill , 285 


 Limesi [ Limesei , Limeseye , Limesy , Lymesi , Lymesy ] , de , Alex . , 175 , 189 ; Jo . , 44 ; Margery , 43 , 44 ; Margt . , 44 ; Matilda , 44 ; Nich . , 24 , 44 , 73-74 ; Rohaise , 175 , 189 ; Walter , 43-44 , 74 Linces , de , Urso , 50 


 Linch , Suss . , 19–21 , 30 , 36 Linchmere [ ' Wolenchemere ' ] , Suss . , I , II , 19-21 ; priory , 29 ; canons , 


 20 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 499] ===
 
 
 INDEX 483 


 
 
 Linchmere - Wildebrig , Suss . , 29 Lincoln , Alfred [ Alvred ] of , 41 , 43 Lincoln , bishops - 64 , 259–261 , 313 ; Hugh , 243 ; Rob . , 287 , 410 ; Rob . de Chesney , 227 , 229 , 234 


 castle , constable of , 239 church of , 245 countess - Margt . , 284 


 earls - 263 , 270 , 417 ; Hen . de Lascy , 248 ; Ranulf , 14 ; Will . de Aubigny I , 38 ; Will . de Aubigny II , 7 


 Lincroft , Norf . , 135 


 Lindfield , Suss . , 324 , 326 , 370 


 
 
 Lindholt , de , Rob . , 363 


 Lindle , Norf . , 431 


 Lindon , de , family , 165 ; Alan , 283 ; Sir Alan , parson , 283-284 ; Alina , 283 ; Margt . , 282 ; Matilda , 284 ; Ric . , 284 ; Rolland , 281 , 283 ; Sim . , 281-284 ; Sir Sim . , 284 Lindsell , Essex , 156 , 164 , 217-219 ; 


 
 
 manor , 156 , 219 


 Lindsey , Suff . , 362 , 363 ; castle , 360 ; chapel ( St. James ' ) , 361 Liniota wife of Will . son of John , 243 Liperinges , Suss . , 66 


 Lirling [ Lirlinge ] , de , Matilda , 325 ; Will . , 325 


 Lirling . See Larling , Norf . 


 Lisewy , 102 


 
 
 4 


 
 
 4 


 
 
 L'Isle [ de Insula ] , de , family , 1 , 169 , 174 , 226 , 228 , 244 ; Adeline , 20 n . ; Alice , 119 , 172-173 , 237 ; Baldwin , 170 , 178 , 186 , 188 , 205 , 226 , 243– 244 ; Baldwin , chamberlain , 187 , 190 ; Sir Baldwin , 173 ; Beatrix , 172 ; Brian , 408 ; countess , 200 Florence , 34 ; Geoff . , 45 ; Gerard , 172 , 223-224 , 237 ; Grace , 408 ; Hen . , 34 ; Jo . , 44-45 , 185 , 189 , 190 , 209 , 244 , 246 ; Sir Jo . , 244 ; Juliana , 45 ; Margt . , 226 ; Otuel , 364 ; Rob . , 119 , 172-174 , 185 , 189 , 193 , 196 , 199 , 201-202 , 206 , 209 , 216 , 224 , 226 , 232-233 , 237 , 241 , 245-246 , 339 , 411 ; Sir Rob . , 147 , 177 , 179 , 181 , 185-187 , 190 , 192 , 197 , 224 , 246 ; Rohaise , 172 ; Walter , 34 , 44 ; Warin , 223 , 226 , 232 , 237 ; Sir Warin , 224 ; Will . , 34 L'Islebon [ Lillebon ] , de , John , 352 ; 


 Sibil , 352 


 
 
 Liston , Essex , manor , 421 Litcham , Norf . , 119 Litelwelle , de , Samson , 374 Litledon , ' Suss . , 20 


 
 
 Litlelee [ ' Lasela ' ] , Kent , 194 Litlington . See Littleton Farm Littlehampton , Suss . , 2 , 89 , 90 Littleton , Hants . , 84 


 Littleton Farm , nr . Up Waltham , 52 Litton [ Luton ] , de , Alice , 436 ; Jo . , 


 436 


 
 
 Llewelyn prince of Wales , 398 , 440 ; Margt . , dau . , 440 


 Locheleye , de , Isabel , 219 ; John , 


 
 
 219 


 Lodden , de , Joscelin , 138 Loddon , Norf . , 2 , 116-117 , 123-124 , 138 , 152 , 155 , 338 ; manor , 151 Lodne , de , John , 143 


 Lodnes , de , Geoff . , 116 ; Ric . , 116 ; Steph . , 116 


 ' Lodnes . ' See Loddon , Norf . 


 
 
 Lohereng , de , John , 259 ; Will . , 258 Loingeland , ' Norf . , 317 


 Loingeland , ' Suff . , 317 


 Lokinton , N'hants . , 188 London , de , 


 
 
 &lt; 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 311 ; Adam , 187 David , 311 ; Joan , 187 ; Jo . , 236 ; Rob . , 269 ; Tho . , 187 


 London , 5 , 196 , 198 , 225 , 258 , 278 , 333 , 350 , 401-402 , 411 , 414 


 bishops - 106 , 108 , 214 ; Gilb . , 276 , 407 ; Gilb . Foliot , 193 , 234 235 ; Maurice , 166 ; Ric . , 313 ; Rob . , 175 


 
 
 Jews . See Jews 


 justiciar of , 285 


 mayor ( first , of commune ) , 347-349 


 
 
 merchants , 293 


 Aldgate , Holy Trinity or Christ Church priory , 252 


 Newchurch , 167 


 
 
 St. Barthol . , priors - Gerard , 211 ; Jo . , 211 


 
 
 St. Botolf , chapel , 313 


 St. Helen's church , 167 St. Mary of Westchepinge , ' church , 167 


 St. Paul's , dean , 278 , 401 , 427 St. Paul's , Ric . the Young , canon of , 208 


 
 
 Tower , 278 Walbrook , 192 Longbridge , Suss . , 81 Longespée [ Lungespeye ] , de , Alice , 440 ; Matilda , 440 ; Ric . , 440 ; Will . , 319 , 436 , 440 Longevill , de , Beatrice , 274 ; Jo . , 274 ; Tho . , 274 Longham , Norf . , 119 


 Longueil [ ' Lungoly ' ] , Seine - Inf . , 421 Longueville , priory of , 300 


 Lopeherst , Suss . , 26 


 Lora , wife of Steph . , chamberlain 


 
 
 27 


 Lord , le , Rob . , 222 


 Lordington , Suss . , 41-42 , 45 ; chapel , 44 ; manor , 44 


 Losfield [ Losfelle ] , Beds . , 268 ; her 


 
 
 mit , 268 


 Losfield , Berks . , 165 


 
 
 Lossenham , Kent , 158 , 159 


 ' Louentune . ' See 


 Suss . 


 
 
 Barlavington , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 500] ===
 
 
 484 INDEX 


 
 
 Louvain [ Luvaine ] , de , family , I ; John , 216 ; Joscelin , 17 , 18 , 24 , see Joscelin the castellan ; Matt . , 214 , 366 


 Loveday , Ann , 139 ; Ric . , 139 ; Rog . , 55 , 177 , 184 , 399 , 404 Lovel [ Lovell , Luvel ] , family , 2 , 81 ; Alice , 81 , 82 ; Christiana , 82 ; Eleanor , 176 ; Hen . , 81 , 82 ; Hugh , 81 , 82 , 92 ; Jo . , 133 , 134 , 176 ; Pet . , 315 ; Ralph , 81 ; Ric . , 81 , 82 , 93 ; Will . , 176 Loventone . ' See Lavant , Mid . Lowdham , Notts . , 114 , 115 ; church , 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 III , 112 


 Luci [ Lucy ] , de , Godeheut , 57 ; God frey , 269 ; Ric . , 57 , 243 , 390 Ludborough , Lincs . , 439 ; manor , 440 Luddesdown , Kent , 106 , 107 Ludgershall , castle , 172 


 
 
 Ludham , Norf . , 129 


 Ludlow , Salop , 105 


 ' Luiton , ' Essex , 183 Lullingeston , de , Jo . , 195 ; Ric . , 195 ; 


 Tho . , 195 


 
 
 Lullingstone , Kent , 164 , 194–195 Lunde , le , N'hants . , 283 Lurgasall [ Lurgarshall , Lurgashall , Lutgarshale , Lutgarshall ] , Suss . , 35 , 36 , 91 , 93 ; church , 17 , 24 , 92 ; park , 92 , 93 


 Luton Hoo , Beds . , 209 


 
 
 Lydell , Cumb . , 399 Lyegh , de la . See Legh Lymesi . See Limesi Lyminster , Suss . , 2 , 16 , 23 , 37 , 65 , 69-70 , 90 ; church , 90 Lyndon , Rutl . , 282 ; church , 283 ; manor , 283 , 284 Lynford , Norf . , 399 


 
 
 Lynn , Norf . , 95 , 112 , 149 , 309 , 430 , 439 ; marshland , 300 , 304 , 427 Old , Norf . , 141 , 326 ; church , 


 
 
 313 


 South , Norf . , 150 Lyons , de , John , 59 ; Ric . , 59 Lythare , John , 154 


 
 
 MABEL , Countess . See Montgomery Madehurst ( ? Meslirs ) , Suss . , 49 , 51 52 ; church , 62 ; lord of , 26 


 Magne , le , Hugh , 299 ; Isabel , 299 Mahon , de , Nich . , 159 ; Peter , 159 Maiden Bradley , prior of , 20 Maideston , Norf . , 149 


 Maidstone , Kent , 182-183 , 185 , 194 Maiham , family , 3 


 Maisi , de , Rob . , 91 


 
 
 Malden , Surr . , 17 , 22 ; church , 21 Maldon , de , Gunnor , 22 


 Maldon , Essex , 397 ; abbey , 221 Malet , Rob . , 321 , 325 , 424 ; Walter , 321 ; Will . , 231 


 
 
 Malherbe [ Malerbe ] , Ralph , 109 Sir Rob . le , 109 ; Will . , 104 , 124 Malling , Kent , nuns of , 62 


 South , Kent , manor , 353 Malmeyns [ Malemeins , Malesmain , Malmayns ] , family , 3 ; Hen . , 159 ; Sir Hen . , 161 ; John , 159 , 160 , 205 ; Rog . , 159 ; Tho . , 159 , 203 Malpas [ Maupas ] , Will . , 337 Malquenci , family , 297 ; Geoff . , 413 ; Gerard , 413 


 
 
 Malteby , de , Rob . , 336 Maltravers [ Mautravers ] , John , 356 ; Will . , 103 


 Malveisin , Adam , 204 Manchester , Lancs . , barony , 280 ; lord of , 324 


 Mandevill [ Maundevill , de Manna villa ] , de , family , 164 ; of Black Notley , Essex , 252 ; Atheliz , 252 ; Beatrice , 225 ; Christiana , 121 , 393 ; Geoff . , 213 , 214 , 225 , 249 , 252 , 365 ; Geoff . , earl , 225 ; Gilb . , 252 ; Gunnild , 252 ; Jo . , 252 Milicent , 252 ; Mirabilis , 252 ; Olive , 253 ; Petronilla , 210 ; Ralph , 210 ; Ranulf , 252 ; Roese , 252 ; Tho . , 210 , 211 , 252 ; Walter , 252 ; Will . , 225 , 252-253 , 393 ; Will . , earl , 318 


 See Essex 


 honor , 225 


 
 
 Manegeden [ Manegedon , Manekeden ] , de , Gerard , 201 ; Jordan , 201 Maners [ de Maneriis ] , de , family , 165 , 


 296 ; Alice , 272 ; Baldwin , 109 ; Jo . , 272 ; Ric . , 272 , 345 ; Rob . , 272 , 345 Manewden [ Manuden ] , Essex , 164 , 


 201-202 , 371 , 373 , 375 


 Manne , de , Christina , 401 ; Pet . , 401 Mantel , Matt . , 202 


 Manteston [ Mandeston ] , de , family , 3 ; Ric . , 148 


 Mapeldreschamps 


 [ Mapelscombe ] , 


 196 


 Mapledurham , Oxon . , 297 , 420-423 


 Chauzey , Oxon . , 423 Gornay , Oxon . , 423 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 Maplestead , Essex , 378 Little , Essex , 376 Mappowder , Dors . , 313 


 Marche , La , ' Norf . , 119 Marches , Welsh , 397 , 398 Marcil , de , Adeling , 13 


 Marden [ Morden ] , Suss . , I , 17 , 20 , 81 ; chapel , 65 


 East , 86 


 North , 1 , 20 , 24 , 74 , 91 


 Up , Suss . , 1 , 41-45 , 65-68 , 72 , 74 , 94 ; church , 76 ; manor , 74 , 75 


 
 
 West , Suss . , 36 Wilts . , 204 , 414 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 501] ===
 
 
 INDEX 485 


 
 
 Mare [ Mara ] , de la , family , 296 , 368-369 ; Geoff . , 179 ; Hen . , 274 , 368 ; Ida , 179 ; Isabel , 368–369 ; dame Isabella , 369 ; Joan , 369 ; Jo . , 39 , 40 , 369 ; Mabel , 368 ; Matilda , 368 ; Matt . , 369 ; Matthias [ Ma zius ] , 368 ; Pain , 305 , 368-369 ; Petronilla , 39 ; Tho . , 368 Mareigni , de , Will . , 214 Mareis , Little , nr . Yedingham , Yorks . , nunnery , 355 , 356 


 
 
 Marenni , de , Rob . , 201 Mares , de , Rob . , 430 Marevill [ Merevill ] , de , Bernard , 409 ; Pet . , 408-409 ; Ranulf , 409 Mareys , de , Sim . , 159 Margaret , dau . of Llewelyn prince of Wales , 440 


 
 
 princess , 221 ; queen , 173 , 224 , 284 , 338 Margaretting , Essex , manor , 342 , 


 
 
 410 , 415 Margery , dau . of Will . of Wilby , Norf . , 144 


 
 
 Marham , Norf . , 140 , 314-315 , 317 , 319 , 320 , 346 ; abbess of , 344 Marines , de , Hawise , 206 ; Hugh , 206 


 Mark , Phil . , 419 


 
 
 Markborough , in Middleton , Norf . , 


 priory , 149 


 Markham , 314 


 
 
 Marlborough , castle , 172 Marlingford [ Merlingford ] , de , Gilb . , 


 127 


 Marlingford , Norf . , 127 , 128 


 Marlsford , manor , 318 


 Marmion , John , 338 


 
 
 Marmoutier , St. Martin's , 49 Marsea , Essex , 193 Marshal [ Mareschal ] , Alice , countess , 344 ; Alina , 127 N. , 151 , 279 ; Alvreda ( or Alina ) , 113 ; Anselm , 106 , 344 ; Cecily , 43 , 44 ; Ellis , 206 Gilb . , 43 , 44 ; Joan , 106 ; Jo . , 68 , 113 , 115 , 126 , 128 , 132 , 151 , 152 , 279 , 280 , 289 , 347-348 , 422-423 ; Margt . , countess , 344 ; Matilda , 336 ; Ralph , 443 ; Rog . , 268 ; Rog . , earl , 440 ; Rohaise , 206 ; Steph . , 349 , 368 ; Will . , 33 , 67 , 68 , 218 , 337 , 442 ; Will . , earl , 46 , 170 , 208 , 218 


 
 
 See Bigod , Broc , de , Fitz - Aldelin and Pembroke 


 
 
 Marshal , earl , 68 , 88 , 107-108 , 119 , 179 , 343-344 , 366 , 374 


 
 
 king's , 63 


 Marston Moretaine , Beds . , 343 


 Martel , Agnes , 282 ; Martin , 282 ; Osbert , 250 ; Will . , 96 Martin , John , 196 


 
 
 rector of Tarring , 353 treasurer , 287 


 
 
 Martinsgrave , Suss . , 2 , 10 , 11 , 71 , 76-77 , 82-83 


 Massingham , Norf . , 301 , 371 Mastak , de , Bozo , 19 Matan , de , Will . , 254 


 Matching , Essex , 29 , 409 ; manor , 410 in Newhaven , Suss . , manor , 307 Matham [ ' Mayhamme ' ] , Kent , 3 , 158-160 


 
 
 Matilda , countess , 306 ; empress , 7 , 10 , 38 , 415 ; lady of Wallingford , 234 ; princess , 317 ; queen , 285 , 298 , 309 , 403 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Matuen , de , Serlo , 167 Maubanc , Alda , 250 ; Will . , 250 Mauduit , Beatrice , 239 ; Jo . , 241 , 413 ; Sir Jo . , 241 ; Ric . , 220 ; Rob . , 240-241 ; Sir Rob . , 241 ; 


 
 
 Tho . , 204 , 377 Maulden , Beds . , 209 Maulveisin , Adam , 204 Maunsel [ Maunsell ] , family , 2 ; Ama bel , 98 ; Emma , 33-34 , 98 ; Jo . , 33-34 , 86 , 98–101 ; Jo . , clerk , 34 , 98 Mauntel , Felicia , 206 ; Rob . , 206 Mauny , de , Walter , 209 Maupas . See Malpas Mauquenchy in the Rumois , 413 Mauquency . See Malquenci Mautravers . See Maltravers Mauule [ de Malo Lacu ] , de , Pet . , 121 Mawers , de , Will . , 109 Maximus , Alice dau . of , 140 Maydenhatch , de , Isabel , 369 ; Joan , 369 ; Margt . , 369 ; Sibyl , 369 ; Tho . , 369 


 Maydewell , de , Agnes , 232 ; Hen . , 232 Mayenne [ ' Meine , ' Meinne ' ] , de , 


 
 
 C 


 
 
 Cecily , 104-106 ; Walter , 104-106 Mayham [ Maiham , Meham , Meyham ] , de , Hawise [ Helwise ] , 159 , 158–160 ; Orabel , 158-160 ; Ric . , 158 ; Sim . , 159 ; Tho . , 158 


 fee , 158 


 
 
 Mayland , Essex , 206 


 Méautry [ Meautreu ] , in Calvados , 348 Medeltone . ' See Melton , 


 Little , 


 
 
 Norf . 


 Medested , de , Andrew , 51 Medway , river , 182 


 Meeching , 309 , 310 ; church , 311 Meesden , Herts . , 108 


 Melbourne , 253 ; church , 253 Melburn , Great , Norf . , Melbury , 313 


 139 


 Meldon , de , Eudes , 21 


 
 
 Meleburne , de , Jo . , 253 ; Will . , 253 Melewode , church , 332 Melford , Little , Norf . , 103 


 Melhowe [ Melho ] , de , John , 407 ; 


 
 
 Roese , 407 ; Will . , 407 Mellers , Suss . , 26 , 49 , 50 , 63 Mellers , Merlirs , Meslirs . 


 hurst , Suss . 


 
 
 See Made 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 502] ===
 
 
 486 INDEX 


 
 
 Melliers , de , Alfwin , 317 Melond East Hall , Norf . , 382 Melton , de , Will . , 109 Melton , Norf . , 107 , 138-139 , 367 Great , Norf . , 102 , 109 139 Little , 102-103 , 107 , 109 Mowbray , Leics . , church , 313 Menbroc , II 


 
 
 Menelli [ Menli ] , de , Tho . , 210 Meon , East , Hants . , 65 Meppershall , Norf . , 181 Mercecurt , de , Guy , 301 , 315 ; Will . , 


 301 , 315 


 Merchenfen , Norf . , 304 


 Merchet ' of flesh and blood , 399 ' Merdon , ' North . See Marden , Up , Suss . 


 
 
 Mere [ ' Meres Court ' ] , Kent , 31 , 182-184 ; manor , 185 Merecombe , Wilts . , 84 Merelee [ Merelis ] , de , Rob . , 158 Meri [ Merei ] , de , Ric . , 65 , 335 Merk [ Merc , Merch , Merke ] , de , family , 164 , 165 ; Adelolf , 211 ; Aitrop or Eitrop , 210 , 211 ; An drew , 179 , 212 ; Aubreye or Alda , 212 ; Cecily , 274 ; Eustace , 210 , 268 , 269 ; Hen . , 178 , 210 , 211 ; Jas . , 211 ; Jo . , 210 , 217 , 274 ; Juliana , 212 ; Lora , 212 ; Mary , 274 ; Petronilla , 210 ; Ralph , 211 , 212 , 217 , 274 ; Rohaise , 211 , 212 ; Sim . , 211 ; Tho . , 212 , 274 ; Walter , 273 , 274 ; Will . , 211 , 273 , 274 Merlay [ Merlai , Merleia ] , de , family , 


 
 
 112 , 297 , 443 ; Daniel , 112 , 442 ; Eva , 442 ; Geoff . [ Gilo ] , 5 , 112 , 118 , 198 , 442 ; Hawise , 442 ; Mary , 96 ; Morel , 5 , 7 ; Ric . , 442 ; Rog . , 96 ; Sarra , 442 ; Will . , 112 Merlo , de , Will . , 422 Merlot , Will . , 352 Mers ( Bresle ) , 278 n . Mers , in Vimeu , 277 Mersea , Essex , 193 


 Merston , Suss . , 1 , 36 , 37 , 41 , 90 alias Weston , Suss . , 36 Merton , de , Walter , 22 , 286 ; dom . Walter , 286 ; Walter , king's clerk , 


 
 
 22 


 Merton , 313 ; church , 313 


 
 
 priory , 21 ; canons , 10 ; Will . , prior , 21 


 Merton Hall , Surr . , 22 Merwenedenn , Suss . , 71 


 
 
 Meschin , family , 169 ; Avice , 169 ; Matilda , 35 ; Will . , 35 , 169 


 
 
 " Meslirs . ' See Madehurst , Suss . Mesners or Mainers , de , Ric . , 345 , 346 Messina , 42 


 
 
 Methelonde , de , Adam , 382 


 Methelwold , de , Sim . , 361 


 Methwold , Norf . , 334 , 336 ; manor , 


 341 


 
 
 Meulan , counts - Rob . , 246 , 299 , 300 ; Waleran , 300 , 316 ; countess -Isabel , 299 


 
 
 Meyners , de , Agnes , 346 ; Isabel , 346 ; Leticia , 346 ; Ralph , 305 , 346 ; Ric . , 346 


 vicomté of , 346 Micheleslond , 


 in West Thurrock , manor , 401 , 402 Mickfield , Suff . , church , 137 Mickleford , de , Hamon , 109 Middentone , de , Hoel , 149 Middleham , Yorks . , 28 Middlesex , archdeacon of , 427 Middleton , de , John , 354 Middleton , 198 , 309 , 311 


 by Lean , Norf . , 320 Norf . , 2 , 353-354 


 Norf . , St. Mary , church , 149 in Freebridge hund . , Norf . , 56 , 149-150 


 
 
 Suff . , 296 , 370-371 , 375 , 428-429 ; manor , 373 


 
 
 next Pevensey , 354 


 Suss . , 52 , 55 , 56 ; manor , 58 , 59 , 307 , 353 , 354 


 North , Suss . , 58 


 
 
 Midhurst [ Middeherst ' ] , Suss . , II , 64-67 , 68 n . , 409 ; manor , 68 Mid - Lavant [ ' Midlouinton ' ] , Suss . , 


 
 
 29 


 Mikelefeld , de , Hamon , 109 Milcott , Warws . , 94 Mildenhall , Wilts . , 235 Mile , John , 265 


 Mileham , Norf . , 47 : fee , 119 ; honor , 118 ; manor , 118 , 136 , 137 Milliers [ Melliers , Mileres , Miliers , Milleres , Mylieres ] , de , family , 2 , 3 , 97 , 100 , 142 , 431 ; Alfwin , 62 ; Felicia , 34 , 98-100 ; master Gilb . , 31 ; Godfrey , 153-154 ; Hodierna , 141 ; Hugh , 97 , 129 , 153 ; Humph . , 10 , 63 , 99 , 153 , 431 ; Humph . , sewer , 97 , 153 ; master Humph . , 97 , 98 ; Matilda , 153 ; Rob . , 141 ; Rog . , 63 , 97 , 141 , 142 ; W. , 360 ; Will . , 5 , 78 , 97-98 , 143 n . , 153-154 , 163 Milton by Gillingham , Dors . , manor , 248 


 
 
 on Stour , Dors . , 165 , 247–248 Kent , 183 


 
 
 by Gravesend , Kent , 107 by Maidstone , Kent , 194 Mimecan , Philip , 369 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 Miners , de , Agnes , 183 ; Hen . , 183 Minstead , Suss . , 20 , 21 


 Minster , Oxon . , 227 , 237 


 
 
 Little , Oxon . , 64 


 Minter ' ( Munte ? ) . See Mount , Kent Miseburne , ' 313 


 Missenden , Bucks . , 86 ; abbey , 410 , 411 ; abbot - Peter , 410 


 Mistley , Essex , 192 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 503] ===
 
 
 INDEX 487 


 
 
 Mitching , Suss . , 383 Moggerhanger , Beds . , 262-263 ; manor , 263 


 Mohaut [ Montalt , de Monte Alto , Montut ] , de , family , 165 ; Cecily , 14 ; Joan , 118 , 248 ; Jo . , 58 , 248 , 354 ; Rob . , 32 , 36 , 58 , 59 , 116 , 118 , 119 , 132 , 135 , 141 , 143 , 143 n . , 150 , 152 , 154 ; Sir Rob . , 36 , 58 , 143 ; Rog . , 14 , 15 , 116 , 118 , 140 , 151 , 154 ; Sim . , 358 


 barony , 59 ; honor , 36 Mohun , de , Hen . , 59 Moine [ Moigne , Moygne , Moyne ] , le , Fulk , 262 ; Jo . , 184 , 374 ; Ralph , 191 , 373 ; Reg . , 125 ; Rob . , 126 ; Will . , 373 


 
 
 Molendinis , de , Will . , 33 


 ' Molonde , ' Kent , 196 Molton , North , Devon , 35 Molyns , de , John , 350 ; Sir Jo . , 330 ; Margery , 330 


 
 
 Monceaus [ Monceaux , Monceus , Mun ceus ] , de , family , 296 , 376 ; Alan , 377 ; Drew , 421 ; Edith , 421 ; Idonea , 376 ; Ingram , 376 , 377 ; Joan , 377 ; Jo . , 378 ; Margt . , 377 , 378 ; Matilda , 377 ; Olimpias , 378 ; Ralph , 375 ; Rob . , 376 ; Waleran , 333 , 376-378 ; Will . , 306 , 341 , 376 , 377 


 
 
 Mongewell , de , Nich . , 423 Mongewell , Oxon . , 229 Montacute [ de Monteacuto ] , de , family , 364 ; Alice , 344 ; Edw . , 344 ; Hawise , 23 ; Jo . , 31 , 365 ; Ric . , 364 ; Will . , 23 


 Montbegon , de , Olive , 57 ; Rog . , 57 Monte Canesi [ Caniso ] , de . See 


 Muntchenesy 


 Montfichet . See Munfichet 


 Montfort , de , 100 , 184 , 205 , 215 , 343 , 406 ; family , I ; Hawise , 40 ; Hen . , 398 ; Sir Hen . , 101 ; Hugh , 149 , 157 ; Pet . , 53 ; Petronilla , 39 ; Rob . , 39 , 40 ; Sim . , 95 , 98 ; Will . , 32 , 39 , 40 


 
 
 Montgomery , de , countess Mabel , 89 , 90 ; Hugh , 5 , 90 ; earl Rog . , 4 , 5 , 16 , 21 , 23-24 , 26-27 , 30 , 33 , 35 , 37 , 41 , 46–47 , 49 , 52 , 54-56 , 61-62 , 65 , 69 , 70 , 72 , 77 , 79 , 81 , 83 , 87-91 , 93 , 96-97 , 99 


 Monthermer , de , Ralph , 212 


 Montibus , de , John , 51 ; Ralph , 50 Montrichard , 12 


 ' Mor , ' Norf . , 321 


 Moraunt , Ellis , 21 Mordaunt , Will . , 268 


 
 
 More [ de Mora ] , de la , Margery , 259 ; Matilda , 253 ; Ralph atte , 60 ; Rob . , 259 ; Sim . , 253 , 255 ; Will . , 259 


 Morel ( of Edgefield , Norf . ) , 118 


 
 
 Morel , family , 165 ; Ralph , 273 , 275 Moreland , de , Adam , 326 Moreton , South , Berks . , 85 , 86 Morewich [ Morewik ] , de , Hugh , 143 ; Theophania , 143 


 Morice , Agnes , 264 ; Jo . , 260 , 264 Morin ( of Chithurst , Suss . ) , 52 , 83 Morin , family , 1 ; Matilda , 25 ; Ric . , 25 de , 


 Morlee [ Morlay , Morleye ] , Ranulf , 130 ; Rob . , 15 , 115 , 116 , 119 , 135 , 141 , 143 , 150 , 152 , 154 , 435 ; Rog . , 95 


 Morley , Norf . , 322 , 325-326 ; church , 325 


 Mortain , counts - 52 , 353 , 413 , 414 John , 50 , 53 , 113 , 231 , 238 , 418 Rob . , 49 , 56 ; Steph . , 53 , 273 , 285 , 438 ; Will . , 424 


 
 
 countess - Matilda , 273 , 285 


 fee , 247 , 248 , 380 , 414 ; honor , 247 , 250 , 413 Mortemer [ Mortimer ] , de , family , 296 , 385-389 ; of Attleborough , 306 ; Agnes , 389 ; Alan , 36 ; Alice , 388 ; Constantine , 337-338 , 387-388 ; Sir Constantine , 389 Edm . , 262 ; Geoff . , 386 ; Guy , 387 ; Isabel , 70 , 387 ; Margt . , 397 ; Margery , 397 ; Petronilla , 386 ; Ric . , 385 , 394 ; Rob . , 117 , 118 , 128 , 318 , 354 , 386-389 , 397 ; Sir Rob . , 387 ; Rog . , 35 ; Will . , 36 , 67 , 335 , 386-388 ; Will . , seneschal , 387 


 Morthen , de , John , 420 Morthen , par . Rotherham , Yorks . 


 420 


 
 
 Mortimers , Kent , 183-185 ' Mortoft , ' Norf . , 319 , 325 Morton , de , John , 156 Morton by Ongar , Essex , 222 Mosse . See Jews 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Mota , de , Rob . , 78 Mote , de la , Rob . , 78 Moulscombe , Suss . , 299 , 310 Moulstone , Suss . , 324 , 379 Moulton , Suff . , 365-366 ; manor , 366 Mount ( in Elham ) , Kent , 3 , 163 Mountcorbyn , de , John , 338 Moustiers , de , Lisois , 166 , 202 , 262 , 275 , 278 


 Mouun , de , John , 59 


 
 
 Mowbray , de , Rog . , 84 


 Moyns Manor , Essex , 400 


 Mucegros , de , Alice , 173 ; Jo . , 173 ; Rob . , 173 , 176 


 
 
 &lt; 


 
 
 Mulescumba . See Moulstone , Suss . Multon [ Muleton ] , de , family , 424 ; Matilda , 440-441 ; Tho . , 441 Mundeford , de , Adam , 329 ; Jo . , III , 329 ; Osbert , 328 ; Sibyl , 111 Mundford , Norf . , 170 , 327-330 ; manor , 119 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 504] ===
 
 
 488 INDEX 


 
 
 Mundham , de , Alan , 122 , 136 ; Mar gery , 136 ; Rog . , 135 Mundham , 436 


 Mundham , Norf . , 117 , 121 , 123 , 124 , 136-138 , 303 , 385 ; church , 122 , 136 Suss . , 58 , 59 ; church , 90 Mundisdier [ Muntisdier ] , de , Ralph , 315 


 Mundon , de , Ralph , 220 ; Ranulf , 166 Mundon , Essex , 165 , 275 ; manor , 167 Munfichet [ Muntfichet ] , de , family , 


 152 , 202 ; Milisent , 323 ; dame Milisent , 340 ; Philippa , 336 ; Ric . , 193 , 203 , 323 , 328 , 336 ; Will . , 203 barony , 337-338 ; honor , 337 Muniberi , de , Gerard , 411 ; Isabel , 411 ; Pet . , 411 ; Rog . , 411 Munpincun [ Montepincun , Montpyn chun , Mounpinzon , Munpinsoun , Munpinzun , Muntpincun ] , de , family , 296 , 402-405 ; Agnes , 394 , 402-403 ; Alice , 403-404 ; Christiana , 395 , 404 ; Clemency , 403 ; Edm . , 404 ; Fulk [ Fulqui ] , 394 , 402-404 ; Giles , 394-395 , 403-405 ; Sir Giles , 403-404 ; Hugh , 403 ; Isolda , 403 ; Joan , 404 ; Jo . , 394 , 403 ; Sir Jo . , 404 ; Oliver , 404 ; Orabella , 404 ; Ralph , 402-403 ; Reg . , 403 ; Rog . , 402 ; Tho . , 402 ; Will . , 403-404 Muntalurme , de , Rob . , 220 ; Serlo , 


 220 


 Muntchenesy [ de Monte Canesi , Cani so ] , de , family , 2 , 103–110 ; Agnes , 103-104 , 106 ; Aveline , 105 ; Bea trice , 290-291 ; Denise , 106-108 , 266 ; dame Denise , 109 , 205 ; Hubert , 8 , 103 , 393 ; Hubert , clerk , 104 ; Joan , 106 ; John , 106 ; Muriel , 393 ; Ralph , 103-104 , 106 , 119 , 222 , 266 ; Rog . , 361 , 375 , 393 ; Waresius , 197 ; Warin , 8 , 103-107 , 151-152 , 222 , 266 ; Will . , 104-108 , 139 , 151-152 , 196 , 202 , 222 , 266 , 290-291 , 366 


 
 
 barony , 108 ; fee , 104 , 107 ; honor , 107 Munteny , de , Arnulf , 184 Murdac [ Murdach , Murdak ] , Adam , 238 ; Alice , 231-232 , 238-240 ; Beatrice , 63 , 228 , 230 , 238-240 ; Dionisia , 43 ; Eva , 63 , 238-239 ; Florence , 43 ; Geoff . , 230 ; Margt . , 43 ; Ralph , 63 , 228 , 230-231 , 238-240 ; Ric . , 43 ; Will . , 241 Murdac ( of Minster , Oxon . ) , 227 Murdakes - hyde . ' See Minster , Oxon . 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Muriel , niece of Agnes de Belfou , 5 wife of Savary son of Cana , 65 Mursley , Bucks . , manor , 171 Musard , Nich . , 419 ; Ralph , 419 ' Musarderi , ' Gloucs . , 419 


 
 
 Musgrave , de , Sir Tho . , 184 Mustervill [ Musteroil , Musteroill , Mustrol , Mustroyl ] , de , family , 3 ; Adam , 154 ; Hamon , 154 ; Rog . , 154 ; Will . , 4 , 9 


 Muston , Leics . , 405 , 406 Mylieres . See Milliers 


 
 
 NARING , Norf . , 404 


 Naringes , de , Basilia , 394 ; Mabel , 394 ; Phil . , 394 Naughton , Suff . , 360-362 Navenby , Lincs . , 293 Nayland , Essex , manor , 277 Nedging , Suff . , 172 ; manor , 173 Neel , Ric . , 109 


 
 
 ' Neoburna . ' See Nutbourne , Suss . Nerford [ Neireford ] , de , Alesia , 321 ; Matilda , 307 ; Pet . , 109 ; Ric . , 336 ; Sir Tho . , 321 Nessenden , de , Tho . , 292 


 Nether Bouhalle , Le , ' in Leyham , Suff . , 179 


 Netley , abbey , 357 ; abbot , 358 ; St. Edward's Stead , 357 Nettlehampstead , Norf . , 154 Nettlested , Kent , 292 ; manor , 217 Nettleton , Wilts . , 171 


 Neubrok in Rolvenden , Kent , marsh , 159 Neufmarché , de , family , 297 , 416–417 ; Adam , 416-417 ; Sir Adam , 417 ; Amice or Avice , 417 ; Cecily , 417 ; Dionisia , 416-417 ; Eliz . , 417 ; Hen . , 416-417 ; Joan , 417 ; Jo . , 326 , 416-417 ; Lora , 189 ; Rog . , 417 ; Sir Tho . , 189 ; Will . , 416 Nevenden , Essex , 188 Neveu , le , Ralph , 335 Nevill , de , family , 49 ; 20 ; Alan , 234 ; Beatrice , 48 , 335 , 357 ; H. , 47 ; Hawise , 324 , 340 ; Hen . , 30 , 93 ; Hugh , 43-45 , 47 , 49 , 85 , 120 , 275 ; Hugh , forester , 48 , 274 , 286 , 357 ; Sir Hugh , 198 ; Joan , 30 , 120 , 274 , 286 ; Jo . , 48 , 49 , 274-275 , 286 ; Jo . , forester , 45 , 243 , 340 ; Sir Jo . , 275 ; Joslain , 239 ; Margt . , 275 ; Matilda , 239 ; Philippa , 357 Nevill the forester , 1 , 47 , 286 Newark , 251 Newbaud [ Neubaud ] , de , Isabel , 346 ; Phil . , 346 ; Ralph , 346 Newbery by Dartford , Kent , 58 New Bridge , Suss . , 66 Newenden , Kent , 159 , 160 Newenham , Oxon . , manor , 173 New Forest , 380 


 New Hall , manor , 188 


 
 
 Newick , Suss . , 311 , 333 ; church , 313 


 fee , 66 


 
 
 Newington , Kent , 158 , 159 


 Oxon . , 191 , 335 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 505] ===
 
 
 INDEX 489 


 
 
 Newington , Longueville , monks of , 230 South , Oxon . , 227-228 , 232 , 237 , 241 ; church , 229 ; manor , 233 Newnham Murren , Oxon . , manor , 25 Newport , Essex , 211 


 Newsells , Herts . , 166 ; church , 268 , 285 ; manor , 168 


 in Barkway , Herts . , manor , 149 Newsellsbury , Herts . , 165 , 268–271 Newsham , Yorks . , 397 Newtimber , Suss . , 314 , 319 , 328 Newton [ Neuton ] , de , Margt . , 432 ; Will . , 432 


 
 
 Newton , Essex , manor , 214 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 in Great Dunmow , Essex , manor , 


 215 


 
 
 Old , Essex , 176 


 Norf . , 326 


 
 
 in Holond , Norf . , 326 


 West , Norf . , 3 , 141-144 ; church , 131-132 


 
 
 Flotman , Norf . , 102 , 107 , 109 Neybor , Will . , 256 ' Nicheburna . ' See Ickborough Nicholas archdeacon of Hunting don , 287 


 Nieweham in Hatfield , 207 


 
 
 Nigel , 313 , 322 


 
 
 See Sartellei 


 
 
 ( of Boxgrove , Suss . ) , 55 ( of Orleswick , Suss . ) , 310 , 345 ( of Patcham , Suss . ) , 299 ( of Shelton , Norf . ) , 121 


 ( of Warningcamp , Suss . ) , 91 Noers , de , Hugh , 410 ; Will . , 410 See Nueres 


 
 
 Noke [ ' Owe ' ] , Oxon . , 234-236 ; lord of , 237 


 
 
 Nonancurt , de , Will . , 366 Noreman , Nich . , 326 Norfolk , de , Emma , 114 ; Gilb . , III , 113 , 114 , 349 


 countesses - Alice le Bigod , 123 , 344 ; Gundreda le Bigod , 124 , 428 ; Matilda Bigod , 124 


 earls - 108 , 143 , 430 , 440 ; Hugh Bigod , 8 , 124 , 127 , 383 , 385 , 428 , 438 ; Rog . Bigod , 123-124 , 135-136 , 152 , 168 , 176 , 318 , 385 , 428 , 439 , 440 ; Will . , 228 


 Norhals , ' Suff . , 327 


 Norman , Nich . , 325 Norman , hunter , 90 , 310 


 
 
 ( of Beeston , Beds . ) , 262 ( of Thorney ) , 309 


 Normandy , 6 , 12 , 14 , 57 , 63 , 67 , 84 , 98 , 101 , 104 , 112 , 113 , 129 , 166 , 218 , 250 , 277 , 281 , 283 , 348 , 368 , 413 , 420 , 422 ; constable , 67 , 282 ; king's marshal , 67 ; seneschal , 282 ; sewer , 234 ' Normaneden . ' 


 See Marden , Up , 


 
 
 Suss . Normans , Rob . , duke of the , 5 


 
 
 Normans ' lands , 14 , 78 , 83 , 96 , 100-101 , 121 , 184 , 203 , 221 , 274 , 340 , 387 , 421 , 436 


 
 
 Normanton , 253 


 ' Normerdon . ' See Marden , Up , Suss . 


 Northal . ' See Covehithe , Suff . Northales , Suff . , 333 


 Northampton , Will . de Bohun , earl of , 177 


 Northampton , 6 , 97 , 175 , 419 ; gaol , 284 ; nuns of La Pré , 363 ; St. Andrew's priory , 411 


 
 
 酱 


 
 
 Northcase , Suss . , 309 ; manor , 307 Northestret , Suss . , 60 


 Northill , Beds . , 217 , 219 ; church , 265 Kent , 155 


 Northo , de , Will . , 80 Northwold , Norf . , 327-329 , 337-338 , 370-372 , 375 , 395 Northwood , Norf . , 336 


 Suss . , manor , 94 


 Northumbrians , Hen . , earl of the , 416 Norton , de , Lucy [ Lucia ] , 52 ; Reg . , 52 ; Ric . , 52 ; Will . , 434 


 Norton , Essex , 176 


 
 
 334 , 


 
 
 Cold , Essex , 175 ; manor , 177 ; priory , 243 


 Suss . , court , 52 Yorks . , 399 


 
 
 See Blo ' Norton , Norf . Norway , 95 , 195 , 203 Norwich , de , Jo . , 344 , 395 n .; Sir Jo . , 138 ; Kath . , 395 ; Sir Walter , 395 ; Will . , 317 Norwich , 114 , 176 , 317 , 397 ; castle , 113 , 148 , 362 , 424 , 426 


 archdeacons - Jo . , 372 ; Tho . , 


 
 
 372 


 bishops - 123 , 152 , 313 , 367 , 439 ; Everard , 315 ; Jo . , 34 , 122 , 372 ; Pandulf , 390 ; Tho . , 181 ; Will . , 7 , 315 


 hospital of St. Giles , 136 Jews of . See Jews 


 monk of , 424 ; priory , 136 ; Sim . , prior , 136 


 Nostell , St. Oswald's , 84 ; canons of , 416 


 Nosterfield , Cambs . , 215 


 
 
 Noth , family , 3 ; Basilia , 148 ; Eustace , 148 ; Gilb . , 147 ; Ho dierna , 147 ; Jo . , 143 , 148 ; Ralph , 69 ; Ric . , 147-148 ; Rob . , 147-148 Notley , Black , nr . Braintree , Essex , 252 ; church , 252 ; manoг , 214 Nottingham , 70 Nottingham , Rob . , earl of , 83 Novo Mercato , de . See Neufmarché Nueres , de , Odo , 118 See Noers 


 
 
 Nugun [ Noion , Noyon , Nugoun ] , de , Alice , 430 ; Fina , 399 ; Hen . , 399 ; Jo . , 429 ; Nich . , 306 , 308 n . , 378 ; Ralph , 167 , 430 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 506] ===
 
 
 490 INDEX 


 
 
 ' Nunmenistre . ' See Lyminster , Suss . Nurse , king's . See Herlawe Nutbourne , Suss . , 17 , 90 , 94 


 by Chichester , Suss , 2 , 72-76 by Pulborough , Suss . , 23 , 35-36 Nutfield , Surrey , 108 


 Nuthall , Notts . , 365 


 Nutshaw [ ' Nutescheolva ' ] , Hants . , 345 


 Nyetimber , Suss . , 39 Nytimber , in Warblington , Hants . , 2 , 37-39 , 96-97 


 
 
 OAKHANGER , Hants . , 93 


 Oakington , Cambs . , 172 Oakley , Great , Essex , manor , 336 , 338 


 
 
 Little , N'hants . , 364 ; manor , 


 365 Oburvill [ Oburvilla ] , de . See Auber vill 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 Oculus Ferreus . ' See Iron Eye 


 Odburgville . ' See Aubervill , de 


 
 
 Odiham , castle , constable of , 239 Oeys , de , Eustace , 210 


 
 
 Offeham , de , John , 196 


 Offham , Suss . , 1 , 41-45 , 74 , 90 , 97 , 


 
 
 196 , 312 , 319 


 Offinton , de , Will . , 48 


 Offord , brother of Ulf , 311 Offton , Essex , 177 


 
 
 Suff . , 176 ; manor , 415 [ Offigetun ] , Little , Suff . , 176 Ogbourne , Wilts . , 234 Oger ( of Didlington , Norf . ) , 393 Oilgi , de , Rob . , 62 


 Oilli , de , Rob . , 227 , 281 ; Rog . , 235 fee , 57 , 113 , 239 , 242 , 369 


 Oirri [ Oiri ] , de , Alice , III , 113 ; Fulk , 390 ; Matilda , 390 ; Waleran , III , 113 Oismelin , I 


 ( of Binsted and Merston ) , 37 , 41 , 


 
 
 90 


 ( of Fratton , Hants . ) , 355 Old Park ( Eaton Socon ) , Beds . , 264 Olmestede , de , family , 80 ; Jo . , 80 ; Matilda , 80 ; Will . , 80 


 
 
 Olney , Bucks . , manor , 15 


 Ongar , Essex , 222 , 378 ; heirs of , 205 ; honor , 178 , 203 , 207 ; lady of , 176 , 206 


 Little , Essex , 376 , 377 Onovill , de . See Knovill Ore [ Ores ] , de , Nich . , 191 , 192 


 Ores , Kent , 165 , 293 


 
 
 Orewell , Norf . , 439 


 Orfevre , Jordan , 251 


 Orford , Suff . , 317 ; castle , 426 ; con 


 
 
 stable , 73 


 Orival . See D'Orival Orleswick [ Orthlaueswic ] , Suss . , 296 , 310 , 345-346 


 
 
 Ormar ( of Swanborough ) , 310 Ormond , James le Botiller , earl of , 358 , 359 


 Ormsby , Norf . , 216 n . Orrea Regis , ' Suss . , 76 


 Orreby , de , Isabel , 40 , 51 , 120 ; Joan , 45 ; Jo . , 40 , 45 , 51 , 120 Osbern , bishop , 55 


 Osbern ( of Little Barford , Beds . ) , 177 


 
 
 Osberteville [ Otburvill ] . See Auber vill , de 


 Oseney , Oxon . , abbey , 103 ; abbot , 184-185 , 232 , 240 , 241 


 St. Mary's , 30 , 41 


 Osmund , dispenser , 299 , 396 


 
 
 Osmundeston , Norf . , 121-123 ; manor and church , 122 


 Ospring , Kent , 293 , 330 ; hospital , 183 


 Otburvill [ Otburvilla ] , de . See Aubervill 


 Oteringber , de , Bertin , 294 ; Pet . , 294 


 Oteringden [ Oteryngdenne ] , de , Law . , 185 ; Ralph , 184 ; Will . , 183 Oteringham , de , Lecia , 282 ; Margt . , 282 ; Will . , 282 


 
 
 - 


 
 
 Otham [ Otteham ] , de , Lora , 196 ; lady Lora , 195 ; Pet . , 195 , 196 Otham by Maidstone , Kent , 194 195 ; abbey , 353 ; manor , 196 Otringden , Kent , 182 , 183 ; manor , 184 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 ( of Allington , Suss . ) , 314 ( of Anmer , Norf . ) , 393 


 ( of Little Maplestead , Essex ) , 


 376 


 
 
 Otteringburne , ' Hants . , 71 


 Otteringham , in Holderness , 282 Oulton , Norf . , 441 


 Ouvill , de , Ric . , 244 


 Overbouhalle , 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 Le , ' in Leyham , 


 
 
 Suff . , 179 


 Overland , Kent , 3 , 160-161 ; manor , 185 


 Overstone , N'hants . , 98 


 Overton , de , Ric . , clerk , 272 


 Overton , Hants . , 272 


 
 
 Oving , Suss . , 77 


 Ovingdean , Suss . , 322 , 370 , 383 , 403 


 Owe . ' See Noke , Oxon 


 
 
 Owthorpe , Notts . , 53 Oxborough , Norf . , 384 Oxendale , Kent , 158 Oxford , 38 , 411 , 412 constable , 172 


 
 
 earls - 367 ; Rob . de Vere , 205 St. Frideswide , priory , 235 


 St. John's hospital , 233 , 241 , 


 368 


 
 
 Merton , house of scholars , 286 , 287 ; prior , 286 Oxford Bridge , 48 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 507] ===
 
 
 INDEX 491 


 
 
 Oxroad [ Oxerothe , Oxrode ] , de , 


 family , 3 ; Andrew , 163 


 Oxroad , Kent , 3 , 163 Oxted , Surr . , 259 Oxwick , Norf . , 399 Oysilur , le , Geoff . , 254 


 
 
 PACHELESWAY , ' 310 Pacheleswye , Suss . , 334 Pachynesham , Suss . , 89 


 Packmanstone , Kent , 184 ; manor , 


 
 
 184 , 185 


 Pagham , Suss . , 37 


 
 
 Paglesham , Essex , 164 , 192-194 Pain ( of Singleton , Suss . ) , 87 


 reeve , 309 


 
 
 Painard , Rob . , 339 


 Painswick , Gloucs . , 107 Pakenham , de , Edm . , 121 , 430 ; Jo . , 121 ; Rose , 430 ; 


 
 
 121 ; Mary , Will . , 121 


 
 
 Palinges , de , Gernegan , 65 ; Ralph , 


 65 


 
 
 Palingesham , de , Amfrey , 12 


 Pallingham , de , Amfrid , 21 


 Pampisford , Cambs . , 217 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Panethorne , ' 310 


 Pangdean ( Piccombe ) , Suss . , 310 , 327-328 ; manor , 330 


 Pannington , in Wherstead , Suff . , 180 Pantulf , I 


 Pantulf , Will . , 65 


 Parham , Suss . , 32 


 
 
 Paris , de , Will . , 191 


 Parker , le , family , 3 ; John , 144 ; Will . , 144 


 Parmenter , le , Joan , 348 ; Ralph , 348 Passefeld , Essex , 409 Paston Chapel , N'hants . , 411 Patcham , Suss . , 299 ; church , 311 ; 


 
 
 manor , 307 Patching , 310 Pateshull [ Pattesle ] , de , Agnes , 330 ; Sir Hamon , 443 ; Rog . , 260 ; Sim . , 251 , 254 , 255 ; Walter , 330 Pati , Christina , 255 


 
 
 Patric , Will . , 49 Pattishall , N'hants . , 362 


 
 
 Paveli [ Paveili , Paveilli , Pavely , Pavilly , Pavily ] , de , Edw . , 163 ; Geoff . , 413 ; Jo . , 394-395 ; Matilda , 163 ; Phil . , 394 ; Ralph , 302 , 371 , 394 ; Rog . , 312 ; Walter , 122 , 163 ; Sir Walter , 163 


 
 
 Payforer [ Peyforer ] , Fulk , 158–159 , 


 161 ; Hugh , 159 ; Ric . , 159 ; Will . , 159 


 
 
 Paynel [ Painel ] , Eva , family , 2 , 92 ; Fulk , 67 ; Jo . , 92 ; Margt . , 92–93 ; Matilda , 86 , 92 ; Will . , 20 , 86 , 92-93 , 104 Payton 


 Hall [ Pachenhou ' ] , Manewden , Essex , 371 


 in 


 
 
 Peathorne , Suss . , bridge , 382 Pebmarsh , Essex , 297 , 408–409 Pebmeshe [ Pebanesse , Pebbenesse , Pebeners , Pebenesche ] , de , family , 297 ; Ralph , 408-409 ; Sir Ralph , 409 ; Randulf , 408 ; Will . , 408-409 Pecche , Barthol . , 283 ; Gilb . , 173 , 289 , 427 ; Sir Gilb . , 388 ; Hamon , 107 , 266 , 288-289 , 291 ; Hugh , 120 ; Isabel , 369 ; Joan , 427 ; Jo . , 196 , 369 ; Matilda , 291 ; Will . , 120 fief , 387 


 
 
 Peckham , Kent , serjeanty , 73 East and West , Kent , 73 Peeling , church , 313 


 Pegsdon , Norf . , 181 


 Peinton , de , Pet . , 28 Pembroke , countesses - 338 , 


 428 ; 


 Joan de Valence , 106 , 145 ; Mary de Valence , 402 ; lady , 206 Pembroke , earls - 139 , 344 , 384 ; Anselm Marshal , 106 ; Aymer de Valence , 92 , 108 , 154 , 205 , 279 , 307 , 326 , 333 , 338 , 344 , 346 , 367 , 384 , 401-402 , 427 ; Law . de Hast inges , 132 ; Will . Marshal , 68 , 228 , 422 ; Will . de Valence , 106 , 145 Penedok , de , Rob . , 243 Pennard , Rob . , 340 


 Penning , Margery , 114 ; Tho . , 114 Pentney , priors - 425 ; Sim . , 137 Penton Mewsey , Hants . , 2 , 90 Pepering , nr . Burpham , Suss . , 52 Pepperharrow , Surr . , 71 Perche , honor , 158 


 Perching [ Persinges ] , Suss . , 72 , 296 , 305 , 319 , 339 , 347-350 , 369 Sands , Suss . , 346 


 
 
 Percy [ Perce , Perci ] , de , family , 1 , 26 , 27 ; of Petworth , Suss . , 65 ; Agnes , 18 , 19 ; Alan , 18 ; Eleanor , 19 , 27 ; Ellen , 18 , 19 ; Geoff . , 195 , 196 ; Hen . , 18 , 19 , 21 , 26 , 30 , 36 , 63 , 65 , 73 , 76 , 92 , 93 ; Sir Hen . , 36 ; Ingram , 18 ; Isabel , 18 ; Jo . , 19 Joscelin , 18 ; Matilda , 195-196 Ric . , 12 , 18 , 19 , 26 ; Sibil , 18 ; Will . , 18 , 19 , 29 , 35 , 65 , 91 fee , 18 


 
 
 Perepont [ Perepount , Perepunt , Per punt , Perrepount ] , de . See Pier pont 


 
 
 Periers [ Perers , Perieres ] , de , Alice , 314 , 318 ; Hugh , 314 , 318 ; Joan , 209 ; Ric . , 209 


 Perot . See Pirot 


 
 
 Perregate , Suss . , 30 


 Perreham , de , Will . , 97 Pershute , Nich . , 75 ; Pet . , 75 Persone [ Fitz le Persone ] . le , Hugh , 259 ; Ralph , 259 ; Will . , 260 Pertehale , de , Ric . , 266 Pertesoyl , Walter , 262 Peter of Savoy , 246 , 278 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 508] ===
 
 
 492 INDEX 


 
 
 Peter , sheriff , 310 , 370 Peterborough , 50 ; abbey , 410 , 411 ; abbot , 51 , 281 , 283 , 411 Petersfield , Hants . , 422 Peterstrue , Rog . , prior of , 126 Petraponte [ Petrepont , Petroponte ] , de . See Pierpont Pette , de , Gervase , 10 Petton , de , Pet . , 28 Petworth [ de Petehorda ] , Turstin , 23 Petworth [ ' Putewurtha ' ] , Suss . , I , 6 , 11 , 16-20 , 27 , 29 , 30 , 35 , 91-93 ; chapel ( St. Thomas's ) , II ; church , 17 ; fee , 9 , 20 ; honor , 1 , 4 , 10 , II , 16-19 , 21 , 24 , 36 , 41–42 , 62–63 , 76 , 91 , 92 , 353 ; manor , 11 , 19 ; park , 92 


 
 
 Pevensey , castle , 80 , 354 , 403 ; honor , 


 82 ; sea - coast , 31 , 205 Peverel , Andrew , 201 ; Sir Andrew , 377 ; Hamon [ Hamond ] , 187 ; Hugh , 211 , 364 ; Joan , 187 , 257 , 433 ; Jo . , 187 , 433 ; Lucy , 201 ; Ranulf , 220 ; Rob . , 411 ; Sir Rob . , 257 ; Tho . , 377-378 ; Will . , 167 , 220 , 364 


 
 
 fee , 203 , 365 , 436 


 of Bourn , honor , 287 , 389 


 of Dover , honor , 23 , 178 of London , honor , 21 


 
 
 Peyvre [ Peyvere ] , Joan , 434 ; Jo . , 319 ; Paulin , 434 ; Will . , 319 Philip , brother of countess Isabel , 327 king of France , 224 Philippa , queen , 341 Phin the Dane , 220 ; Ulveva , wife , 


 220 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 Piceleswia , ' 310 Picheford [ Pickeford , Pycheford ] , de , family , 2 ; Alice , 77 ; Geoff . , 77 , 209 ; Sir Geoff . , 77 ; Jo . , 209 ; Ric . , 45 ; Will . , 83 


 Pickenham , Norf . , 6 , 139–140 


 
 
 North , 139-141 South , 118 


 
 
 Picot [ Piccot , Pycot ] , Eustace , 442 ; Hen . , 416 , 418 n .; Jo . , 349 ; Lau retta , 442 ; Leticia , 416 ; Lucy , 349 ; Sarra , 138 


 
 
 ( of Wepham , Suss . ) , 99 See Son of Colswain Pictavia , de . See Poitou Piddinghoe , Suss . , 307 , 323 , 326 , 341 ; manor , 324 Piecomb , Suss . , 309 , 328 , 329 ; church , 328 ; lady of , 329 ; manor , 307 Pierpont [ Perepont , Perpunt , de Petraponte ] , de , family , 296 , 297 , 443 ; Beatrice , 323 ; Godfrey , 299 , 300 , 322 ; Hugh , 300 , 315 , 331 ; Jo . , 332-333 ; Lucy , 331 ; Mary , 333 ; Matilda , 332-333 , 340 ; Ralph , 332 , 340 ; Ric . , 332 , 370 ; Rob . , 299 , 301 , 315 , 322 , 328 , 331-333 ; 


 
 
 Sim . , 305 , 331-333 ; Sir Sim . , 333 ; Walter , 331 , 333 ; Will . , 299 , 301 , 310 , 315 , 322 , 331-332 , 340 ; master Will . , 324 , 332 , 340 


 Pigaz [ Pigace ] , John , 186 ; Rohaise , 


 187 


 
 
 ' Pikenhill , ' Norf . , mill , 431 


 Pillarton , Warws . , 422 


 Pincerna , 5 , 6 , 9. See Boteler , le Pinceware , Will . , 255 ' Pincheham , ' 310 


 
 
 Pinchepol , de , Will . , 201 


 Pinchpoles in Manewden , Essex , 164 , 201-202 


 
 
 Pinegrave , Kent , 194 


 Pinkenni [ Pinchenni ] , de , Hugh , 389 ; Ralph , 300 ; Will . , 299 , 300 


 See Pynkeney 


 
 
 Pinkepal , de , Will . , 201 Pinkhurst , Suss . , 92 Pipard , Rob . , 71 


 Pipesty [ ' Pipestye ' ] , Suss . , 324 , 358 Pipewell , 61 


 
 
 Pirie , de , Emma , 113 


 Pirie . ' See Waterperry 


 3 , 


 Pirnho , de , Will . , 124 Pirnough , Norf . , mill . , 124 Pirot [ Perot , Pyrot ] , family , 155–157 , 164 , 217-219 ; Alan , 7 , 155-156 , 217 , 218 ; Aubreye , 218 ; Eliz . , 157 ; Hen . , 156 ; Jacquemin [ Jakemine ] , 156-157 , 219 ; John , 155 , 217 , 218 ; Mahalt , 155 , 218 ; Matilda , 217 ; Ralph , 155-156 , 217-220 ; Sir Ralph , 156 , 262 ; Ric . , 156 , 218 , 219 ; Rob . , 217 , 218 ; Sibyl , 217 ; Sim . , 156-157 , 217-219 ; Tho . , 157 ; master Tho . , D.C.L. , 157 ; Will . , 155 , 217 , 218 


 ( of Glemham , Suff . ) , 167 ( of Hawkwell , Essex ) , 192 ( of Sawston , Cambs . ) , 217 ( of Towersey , Bucks . ) , 155 Pirton , Oxon . , lord of , 324 ; manor , 


 
 
 4 


 
 
 203 Pishobury [ Pysobury ] , Herts . , 164 , 173 , 225–226 ; manor , 173 Pistelegh , ' Surr . , 22 


 Pitsea , Essex , 167 , 220-222 ; church , 220 ; manor , 166 , 220 Pitt , Hants . , 71 


 Plaiz [ Playz , Pleiz ] , de , family , 296 , 383 ; Alice , 62 , 336-337 . 341 ; Beatrice , 48 , 335-336 , 357 ; Giles , 337 , 338 ; Helewise , 117 , 335 ; Hugh , 48 , 117 , 305 , 332 , 334-336 , 341 , 357 , 390 , 391 ; Isabel , 337 ; Joan , 337-338 ; Margt . , 152 , 338 ; Philippa , 335–336 ; Ralph , 300 , 315 , 334-337 ; Ric . , 152 , 202 , 328 , 330 , 336-338 , 341 ; Rob . , 337 ; Warin , 62 


 fee , 334 Planes , de , Rog . , 204 


 
 
 &gt; 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 509] ===
 
 
 INDEX 493 


 
 
 Plantagenet , Hamelin , 285 , 301 ; Hen . , 414 ; Isabel , 285 , 301 ; Matilda , 414 ; Tho . [ ' de Brother ton ' ] , 344 


 Plecy [ Plessy ] , de , Hugh , 64 ; Sir Hugh , 64 


 Pledgdon , Essex , 271 


 
 
 Pleshy , Essex , manor , 15 Plesseto , de , Alvred , 145 ; Isolda , 145 Plessis , du , John , 85 Plowley [ ' Pokelawa ' ] , Oxon . , hund . , 230 


 Plugenai , de , Sibil , 99 


 Plumpton [ Plumton ] , de , Hugh , 379 , 380 


 Plumpton , Suss . , 309 , 310 , 322 , 327 ; church , 324 ; manor , 324-327 Plumstead , Norf . , 150 , 167 , 194-195 , 197 ; manor , 196 


 
 
 North , 151 


 Poer , le , family , 13 ; Rog . , 5 


 Pointz , de , Nich . , 248 Poitevin , Rog . , the , 52 , 424 Poitiers , 386 


 Poitou [ de Pictavia ] , Cecily of , 105 , 106 ; Will . , 105-106 Poitou , 156 , 178 , 203-204 , 214 , 251 , 304 , 351 ; archdeacon of , 302 ' Pokelawa . ' See Plowley Polhey [ ' Polehech ' ] , in Pebmarsh , Essex , 297 , 408-409 


 Polheye , de , Alex . , 409 ; Jo . , 409 Poling , Suss . , 23 , 65-67 ; church , 90 Polling [ Palling ' ] , hund . , 15 Polstede , de , Adeliza , 276 ; Hawise , 389 ; Hugh , 276 , 389 , 391 ; Rob . , 276 


 Poninges . See Poynings Pont del Arche , 304 


 Pont de L'Arche , Will . , 6 , 88 


 Ponte de Tegl ' , 381 


 
 
 Pontefract , Yorks . , 413 


 Pontsold , de , Alice , 237 ; Steph . , 237 Popes - Alex . , 90 ; Eugenius , 252 , 334 ; Gregory IX , 340 ; Honorius II , 104 ; Innocent III , 193 Porchester , castle , 58 , 203 Port , de , family , 56 ; Adam , 38 , 57-58 , 85 , 191 ; Clemence , 84 ; Emma , 65 ; Hugh , 56 ; Jo . , 57 , 84 ; Mabel , 58 ; Matilda , 33 Portland , Hants . , 95 


 
 
 Portsea , Hants . , 335 , 355 


 Portslade , Suss . , 296 , 305 , 322-327 , 


 329 


 
 
 Portsmouth , 6 , 204 


 hospital , 1 , 26 


 Domus Dei , prior , 20 , 357-358 St. Nicholas , Master of , 340 Postwick , Norf . , 165 , 278–279 Poteys , Rob . , 330 Poton , de , Will . , 159 Potte , de , Sim . , 251 Potte , Le , Suss . , 59 


 
 
 Pounesse , de , Ellen , 197 ; Phil . , 197 Poynant [ Ponyaunt , Poygnant ] , Jos 


 
 
 ceus , 158 ; Will . , 388 Poynings [ Poinings , Poninges , Pon ynges , Pouninges , Poyninges , Pun inges , Punings ] , de , family , 60 , 296 , 327-331 ; Adam , 301 , 317 , 327–328 , 332 , 336 ; Agnes , 329 , 330 ; Avice , 328 ; Beatrice , 327-328 ; Isabel , 60 , III , 331 ; John , 317 , 327 ; Luke , 53 , 60 , 111 , 115 , 328-329 , 331 , 336-337 , 345 , 366 ; Sir Luke , 328 ; Margt . , 328 ; Margery , 328-330 , 383 ; Mich . , 328-330 , 335 , 383 ; Sir Mich . , 330 , 333 ; Raynald , 327 ; Reinerius , 327 ; Tho . , III , 115 , 305 , 328 , 330 , 338 , 344 , 346 , 365 ; Sir Tho . , 329 , 330 ; Will . , 327 


 
 
 arms , 330 ; fee , 328 Poynings , Suss . , 296 , 305 , 327-331 , 346 


 Praers [ Praeers , Praeres , Praieres ] , de , family , 2 ; Hascuil [ Hasculf ] , 79 ; Milisent , 79 , 80 ; Rob . , 79 , 80 ; Tho . , 49 Pratellis , de , Ingram , 38 ; Sibil , 38 Préaux ( Normandy ) , abbot , 248 ; castle , 167 ; honor , 166 Préaux , de , John , 67 


 
 
 Prescinton [ Pressinton ] . See Preston , East and West , Suss . 


 Prestebrok , ' Suss . , 66 


 Preston , de , Ascelin , 411 ; Hen . , 51 ; Jueta , 97 


 Preston , Kent , 330 ; manor , 184 , 330 by Wingham , Kent , manor , 185 [ Presintone ' ] , Suss . , 1 , 29 , 66– 67 , 90 , 99 , 100 , 313 , 329 ; manor , 40 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 East and West , by Arundel , Suss . , 2 , 30-32 , 34 , 65 , 97-98 , Candover , Hants . , 2 , 88-89 Mylers , Suss . , manor , 32 Prestre , le , Ric . , 206 Prittlewell , Essex , manor , 342 , 410 , 415 ; monastery , 313 Provence , Beatrice , countess of , 14 Pudlicot , Oxon . , manor , 208 


 Puiset [ Pusaz ] , de , Dionisia , 416 ; Hen . , 416 ; Hugh , 416 


 Pujois , Rob . , 115 , 328 Pulborough , Suss . , 1 , 7 , 17 , 33–35 , 86 , 98 


 
 
 All 


 
 
 IO , 


 
 
 Pulloxhill , Beds . , 267 Pulteney , de , John , 192 Punings . See Poynings 


 Purcel , family , 165 ; Isabel , 273 ; 


 
 
 Oyn , 70 ; Ralph , 273 Purden , Rog . , 418 Purston , N'hants . , 245 Puttes , Oxon . , 240 Pycot . See Picot Pyecombe , Suss . 


 
 
 See Piecomb 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 510] ===
 
 
 494 INDEX 


 
 
 Pympe , Kent , 165 , 292 Pyncheware . See Pinceware Pyngaz , Matilda , 109 


 Pynham , St. Barthol . , priory , 69 Pynkeney , Hamon , 395 See Pinkenni 


 
 
 Pyrot . See Pirot 


 Pyrrow [ Pyrho ] , de , Alice , 429 ; Will . , 429 , 439 


 Pyshoo . ' See Pishobury , Herts . 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 QUARLES [ Quarueles ] , de , Martin , 430 ; Ralph , 430 ; Rob . , 430 Quarles , Norf . , 152 , 428 , 430 Quarmby , Yorks . , 419 , 420 Quarrell , Ivo , 25 


 Quency , de , Rog . , 245 ; earl Rog . , 245 Quendon , Essex , 107 , 271 Querceto , de . See Chesney Querelegh , in Woodham Walter , Essex , 365 


 Quickbury , in Sheering , Essex , 410 Quiddenham , Norf . , 107 , 109 Quidhampton , Hants . , 272 Quillebeuf , 300 Quinchat , II 


 
 
 RACTON , Suss . , 25 , 65 ; church , 65 ; lord of , 26 


 ' Raden . ' See Rowden 


 Radewell , de , Amfelisia , 254 ; Nigel , 254 


 Radford , Oxon . , 237 ; canons of , 413 Radnor , 398 


 Radwell , Herts . , 165 , 168 , 293–294 Radwinter , Essex , 271 


 
 
 Rafin ( of Warningcamp , Suss . ) , 91 Raimes [ Raymes ] , de , Joan , 188 ; Ric . , 188 ; Rog . , 438 Rainald , 228 


 
 
 earl , 38 


 ( of Fritwell , Oxon . ) , 234 ( of North Stoke , Suss . ) , 46 Rainham , Kent , 182 , 184 


 
 
 Norf . , 126 ; manor , 427 East , Norf . , 427 


 
 
 South , Norf . , church , 426 Rakinton , de , Ilbert , 67 Ralegh . See Rayleigh Ralph , I 


 
 
 111 


 
 
 priest , 61 , 224 , 299 , 313 sewer , 17 , 27 , 118 , 172 son of the castellan , II ( of Bignor , Suss . ) , 24 ( of Graffham , Suss . ) , 61 ( of Hautbois , Norf . ) , 431 ( of Kingston Bucy ) , 351 ( of Northill , Beds . ) , 265 ( of Roudham , Norf . ) , 180 ( of Street , Suss . ) , 314 ( of East Wittering , Suss . ) , 62 ( of Wramplingham , Norf . ) , 102 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 Rampston , ' Norf . , 148 


 Rampton , Cambs . , 172 ; manor , 173 Ramsey , Hunts . , 180 


 abbey , 181 


 
 
 abbots - 177 , 179 , 181 , 249 , 250 , 264 ; Hugh , 181 ; Ranulf , 178 ; Rob . , 178 


 Randolf , Joan , 272 ; Jo . , 272 ; Sir Jo . , 272 


 Ranulf , chancellor , 313 


 
 
 nepos ( of Middleton , Suff . ) , 353 seneschal , 56 


 ( of Kenningtons , Essex ) , 400 ( of Pitsea , Essex ) , 220 


 ( of Sandringham , Norf . ) , 120 Ranworth , Norf . , 399 Rapin , Isabel , 369 Rardulf . See Chesney , de , Ralph Rattlesden [ Ratlesdene , Ratlisden ] , de , Adam , 337 ; Jo . , 338 ; Rog . , 336 ; Sir Rog . , 336 ; Sim . , 109 , 337 Rattlesden , Suff . , 334 , 336 


 Le Wodehall , Suff . , manor , 337 , 


 
 
 338 Ratton [ ' Ratteden ' ] , Suss . , 52 , 310 , 379 


 
 
 Raveningham , de , Olive , 154 ; Rob . , 154 ; Rog . , 154 , 387 ; Walter , 387 ; master Walter , 154 ; Will . , 154 Raveningham , Norf . , 303 , 385 , 387 


 
 
 388 ; church , 386-387 Ravensden , Beds . , 250 Rawreth , Essex , 222 Raydon , Essex , 212 


 Suff . , 177 


 by Shelley , Suff . , manor , 212 Rayleigh [ Ralegh ] , honor , 221-222 , 


 
 
 276 


 Raymes . See Raimes 


 
 
 Rayndon , de , Geoff . , 125 Rayne [ Rennes ] , Essex , 188 Rayne , Little , Essex , barony , 188 Reading , abbey , 1 , 7 , 30 , 230 ; abbot , 20 ; monks , II 


 Redburn , nr . Hibaldstow , Lincs . , 417 Redham , de , Barthol . , 432 ; Steph . , 398 ; Will . , 319 


 Redingham , Suff . , 363 


 Redlege , ' 


 Redlegh . 


 Kent 


 
 
 { 


 
 
 See Ridley , 


 
 
 Redlington , Suss . , 27 


 Redrewell , ' in Thorney , 309 


 
 
 Reed , Herts . , 268 Reed [ Rede ] , Suff . , 359 


 
 
 Reedham , Norf . , 320 ; manor , 319 Reepham , Norf . , 320 


 Regalis , Joscelin . See Joscelin the castellan 


 Reginald , 320 


 
 
 king's son , 94 


 ( of Edgefield , Norf . ) , 118 Reigate , Surr . , 306 , 308 n . , 355 , 358 ; castle and manor , 307 Reindon , de , Geoff . , 125 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 511] ===
 
 
 INDEX 495 


 
 
 Reiner ( of Little Snoring , Norf . ) , 


 402 


 
 
 ( of North Barsham , Norf . ) , 370 ( of Tattersett , Norf . ) , 393 Remigius , 25 Renham , de , Will . , 95 Renham , Norf . , 95 ' Renkeshall . ' Rennes . See Rayne Reppes , de , family , 297 ; Law . , 443 ; Margt . , 443 ; Rob . , 435 , 443 ; Sibyl , 443 Repps , Norf . , 108 


 See Ringshall , Suff . 


 South , 318 


 
 
 Restold , Suss . , 55 


 Rettendon , Essex , 107 , 271 


 Revel , Will . , 5 , 118 


 Revela , Rob . , 202 


 Revell , Ric . , 18 


 Reydon , de , Rob . , 126 


 
 
 Reymerston , Norf . , 327 , 328 Reynald , John , 127 ; Matilda , 126– 


 
 
 127 


 Reyton , Kent , 294 


 Rhuddlan , 284 ; castle , 249 


 
 
 Ria , de . See Rye 


 Riburc [ Rieburc ] . See Ryburgh Richard , abbot of St. Albans , 5 


 
 
 archdeacon , 211 , 299 , 379 [ Richoard ] , archdeacon , 310 chamberlain , 141 


 earl . See Cornwall earl's [ Arundel ] clerk , 134 [ Richoard ] , priest , 309 , 311 ( of Arkesden , Essex ) , 406 ( of Halstead , Essex ) , 371 , 402 ( of Howsham Hall , Essex ) , 409 ( of Patcham , Sus3 . ) , 299 ( of Polley , Essex ) , 408 ( of Restold , Suss . ) , 55 


 ( of Snettisham , Norf . ) , 138 Richard's Castle , Salop , 386 , 397-398 Richerness in Bowers Gifford , Essex , marsh , 221 


 in Bures , Essex , marsh , 183 Richmond , earl of , 172 Richmond , fee , 96 , 104 , 239 , 387 , 


 389 n . 


 honor , 104-105 , 107-108 , 173 , 287 


 Rickling , Essex , 225 , 318 , 319 Ridel , John , 255 ; Ralph , 255 Ridgwell , 106 , 266 ; manor , 265 Ridley , Kent , 182 ; manor , 185 Charlton , Kent , 183 


 
 
 Hall , Essex , 252 


 Ridmere , ' Norf . , 147 


 Rikinghale , de , family , 2 , 119 ; Ric . , 


 120 


 Ringeshale , de , Auschen , 246 ; Brian , 246 ; Margery , 246 Ringleton , Kent , 3 , 7 , 155–157 Ringshall , Suff . , 165 , 177 , 246–247 Ringstead , Norf . , 117 , 119 , 385 


 
 
 &lt; 


 
 
 Ringstone [ Ryngesdon ] , de , Ralph , 188 


 
 
 Ringstone , Lincs . , 188 , 189 Rinoldus ( of Dersingham , Norf . ) , 120 Rippingale , Lincs . , 188 Ripple , Kent , manor , 185 Rischewrthe . See Rushford , Norf . Rising [ Rysinge ] , de , family , 3 ; Agnes , 147 ; Auger , 147 ; Tho . , 147 Rising , Norf . , 13 , 102 , 115 , 154 , 327 castle , 13 , 14 , 426 


 church , 6 


 
 
 honor , 2-4 , 15 , 143 Jew . See Jews manor , 116 , 151 See Castle Rising Risley , de , Nigel , 325 Rissington , Gloucs . , 33 Great , Gloucs . , 34 Riston , Salop , church , 313 Rivallis , de . See D'Orival Rivenhall , Essex , 150 , 269 , 275 ; manor , 149 , 269 , 270 ; mill , 271 ; 


 See Treve Park in 


 parson , 270 River , Suss . Tillington Rivers [ Reviers , de Ripariis ] , de , Baldwin , 169 ; Jo . , 205 ; Margt . , 120 , 169 , 170 , 176 , 183 , 190-191 , 193 , 195 , 197-202 , 223 , 226 , 246-247 , 358 ; Margery , 146 , 169 , 171 , 178 , 181 , 186-188 , 190 , 192 , 196-197 , 201 , 205 , 208 , 210 , 211 , 213 , 215 , 219 , 223–224 , 226 , 232 , 247 ; Matilda , 248 ; Ric . , 203 , 365 See Wight fee , 201 


 
 
 Riveshale [ Reveshale , Ryveshale ] , de , Hen . , 108 ; Jo . , 108 ; Wynesia , 108 


 
 
 Riveshale . ' See Rushall , Norf . Riviere , de la , Matilda , 276 ; Ric . , 276 


 Roald , chamberlain , 127 Robert , butler , 155 


 constitutor , 299 


 
 
 count , 166 


 duke of the Normans , 5 , 52 


 
 
 sewer , 6 


 sheriff of Arundel , 17 smith , 289 


 ( of Graffham , Suss . ) , 61 


 ( of South Newington , Oxon . ) , 237 


 ( of Storrington , Suss . ) , S1 Robert's Bridge , abbey , 124 , 153 , 376 ; abbot , 158-159 ; monks , 158 Roche , de la , family , 2 ; Cecily , 87 ; Ralph , 87 ; Ric . , 11 , 87 Roche , abbot of , 333 


 Rocheford [ Rochesford ] , de , dame Joan , 115 ; Waleran , 315 ; Will . , 


 210 


 Rochefort , de , Walter , 328 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 512] ===
 
 
 496 INDEX 


 
 
 Rochela , de , Godfrey , 220 Rochester , 192 bishops - 107 , dulf , 312 , 313 


 197 , 427 ; Gun 


 castle , 182 , 203 , 387 monks of , 190 prior - Will . , 197 St. Andrew's , 5 , 101 Rocholte hall , in Leyton , Essex , manor , 401 


 Rockingham , 343 


 Forest , 282 


 
 
 Rode , atte , Ralph , 337 Rodes , de , Pet . , 420 


 
 
 Rockland [ Rocklund , Rokelund ] , de , John , 206 ; Matilda , 374 ; Rog . , 206 ; Tho . , 399 ; Will . , 206 Rockland , Norf . , 138 , 202 , 206 , 325-326 , 371-375 , 385 , 387 


 All Saints , Norf . , 322 , 370 St. Peter , Norf . , 322 , 334 Tofts , Norf . , 388 


 
 
 Roding , Essex , 165,187-188,201-202 , 252-253 , 256 , 285 , 306 , 308 n . , 332 ; fee , 277 ; manor , 214 , 410 , 415 


 Abbess , Essex , 166-167 , 202 , 216 , 273 


 Bardolf , Essex , manor , 323 , 341 Berners , Essex , 215 , 216 


 High , Essex , 296 , 339–342 , 410 ; church , 309 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 Leaden , Essex , 353 Morel , Essex , 273-275 


 White , Essex , 273 , 275 ; manor , 273-274 Rodmell [ Rodmill ] , Suss . , 309 ; church , 311 ; manor , 90 , 307 , 380 Roffa . ' See Roucestre , de 


 Rofford , Oxon . , 243 ; manor , 96 Rogate , de la , Rob . , 86 , 87 


 
 
 Rogate , Suss . , 25 , 67 , 86 ; rector , 85 Roger , chaplain , 315 


 God save the Ladies , ' 210 


 son of the dean of Grimston , Norf . , 133 


 
 
 ( of Burpham , Suss . ) , 37 


 ( of Fyfield ) , 376 


 ( of Milton on Stour , Dors . ) , 247 ( of Pangdean , Suss . ) , 327 


 ( of Wicken or Wyke Dyve , N'hants . ) , 62 Rohaise , wife of Eudes the sewer , 166–167 , 220 , 273 Rohan , de , Geoff . , vicomte , 35 Rohinges [ Roinges , Roynges ] , de , family , 3 , 164 ; Alex . , 146 , 189 ; Rob . , 146 , 188 ; Serlo , 146 ; Sim . , 146 , 188 ; Will . , 146 


 Rokele [ de Rupella ] , de la , family , 165 , 246 ; Alice , 425 ; Jo . , 247 ; Ric . , 110 , 134 , 247 , 425 ; Will . , 132 , 247 


 Rokesle [ Rokeslee , Rokesleye ] , de , family , 2 , 196 ; Agnes , 329-330 ; 


 
 
 Joan , 72 , 330 ; John , 196 , 329–330 ; Matilda , 294 ; Reg . , 72 ; Ric . , 294 , 329-330 ; Rob . , 294 ; Rog . , 72 , 192 ; Walter , 196 


 Roland , dean of Holme , next Ring stead , 117 


 
 
 ( of Shropham , Norf . ) , 202 Rolland ( of Beeston , Beds . ) , 262 ( of Easton , N'hants . ) , 281 ( of Graffham , Suss . ) , 61 ( of Walberton , Suss . ) , 55 Rollright , Oxon . , 229 Rolvenden [ Rulvinden ] , de , Herbert , 158 


 Rolvenden [ ' Roverinden ' ] , Kent , 3 , 158-160 ; church , 159 


 
 
 Rome , 135 


 Romeley , de , Rob . , 184 Romenel , de , Rob . , 157 Romeyn . See Rumyn Romsey , Hants . , 209 St. Mary's , 41 Roothing , High , Essex . See Roding Ros , de , family , 115 , 164 , 194–196 ; Alex . , 195 ; Alice , 195 ; Anschetil [ Anschitill ] , 167 , 197 ; Emelina , 274 ; Geoff . , 194 , 196 ; Godehold , 195 ; Jas . , 194 ; Jordan , 195 ; Lora , 195-196 ; Matilda , 195 ; Muriel , 411 ; Ric . , 195-196 ; master Rog . , 274 ; Thomasia , 274 ; Wilekin , 195 ; Will . , 58 , 194-197 , 392 , 411 fee , 197 , 406 


 Roscelin [ Roscelyn ] , Cath . , 435 ; Pet . , 388 ; Tho . , 435 ; Sir Tho . , 433 Rosei [ Rosey ] , de , family , 371 ; Bald win , 371-373 ; Jo . , 373 ; Lambert , 371-372 ; Ralph , 302 , 371 ; Ralph , clerk , 300 ; Walkelin [ Walcheline ] , 371 Rotherfield , Oxon . , church , 240 


 Greys , Oxon . , 237 , 241 ; manor , 239 , 240 


 · 


 
 
 Murdack , ' Oxon . , 241 Rotherham , Yorks . , 419 , 420 Rothing [ Rothyng , Rothyngg ] , de , Alex . , 147 ; Hen . , 147 Rottingdean , Suss . , 305 , 310 , 319 321 , 334 ; church , 309 ' Rouberton , ' Suff . , 324 Roucestre [ ' Roffa ' ] , de , family , 165 , 269 ; Alice , 149 ; Eustace , 269 , 287-288 ; Hawise , 271 ; Pet . , 149 , 269 , 270 ; Ralph , 269–271 , 287 ; Ric . , 269 ; Will . , 269 , 270 Roudham , Norf . , 114 , 115 , 180 , 320 , 322 , 326 


 Rouen , de , Thomasia , 274 ; Will . , 274 Rouen , 174 , 300 , 339 


 archbishops - Hugh , 300 , 421 ; Rotrou , 421 


 St. Lo , canons , 65 Rougemont , 224 


 Rougement , barons Lisle of , 174 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 513] ===
 
 
 INDEX 497 


 
 
 Rougham [ Rogham , Rugham ] , de , Alex . , 385 , 443 ; Alice , 443 ; Will . , 385 , 443 


 Rougham , Norf . , 297 , 340 , 443 


 Suff . , 324 , 360 , 362 ; manor , 363 Roumare , de , Will . , 7 , 272 Rowden , Herefs . , 191 


 Roxeth , Mids . , 124 


 Roxton , Beds . , 251 , 256 , 259 , 267 Royli , de . See Ruilli 


 Royston [ Croiroys , Crosroys , Croy roys ] , priory , 268-270 , 287 ; prior , 


 
 
 290-291 


 Ruckholt Hall , Essex , manor , 402 Rudgwick , Suss . , church , 33 Rudham , de , John , 325 


 Rudham , Norf . , 314 , 316 , 319 , 320 , 322 , 325 ; church , 320 


 
 
 [ Roudham ] , East , Norf . , 319 St. Mary's , priory , 315 , 431 ; prior , 431 


 Ruffin [ Ruffyn ] , Ralph , 183 , 185 Rufford , abbots - 85 ; Matt . , 84 Rugge , La , Hants . , 95 


 Rugmere , Suss . , 20 


 
 
 Ruilli [ Royli , Rulli ] , de , family , 179 n .; Hubert , 178 ; Sir Hubert , 178 ; Ric . , 178 


 
 
 Rullos , de , Will . , 276 Rumboldswyke , Suss . , 36 Rumburgh , Suff . , 407 Rumeilli [ Rumely ] , de , Alice , 223 ; Emma , 201-202 ; Hen . , 201–202 Rumyn [ Romeyn , Romyn ] , family , 


 2 ; Edm . , 94 ; Hen . , 36 , 94 , 97 ; Jo . , 75 , 94 ; Sir Jo . , 94 ; Juliana , 94 ; Tho . , 94 ; Will . , 94 


 
 
 Runcton , Suss . , 2 , 90 North , Suff . , 325 Rungeton , prior of , 96 Runhall , Norf . , 336 Runton , Norf . , manor , 396 Rupe , de , Ric . , 87 ; Rob . , 87 Rupe Forti , de , Guy , 266 Rupella , de . See Rokele Rus [ Ruffus ] , le , family , 2 , 297 , 438-440 ; Agatha , 357 , 438-439 ; Alice , 357 , 438-440 ; Ernald [ Ar nald ] , 438-439 ; Hugh , 299 , 300 , 439-440 ; Isabel , 439 ; Jo . , 299 ; Ralph , 299 ; Ric . , 66 ; Rog . , 438 ; Tho . , 439 ; Will . , 11 , 87 , 101 , 357 , 4II , 438-440 


 Rushall , Norf . , 102 , 107-108 , 135 Rusham , de , Will . , 346 Rushford , Norf . , 325 , 326 


 
 
 Rusleyn , Will . , 148 


 Russel , John , 204 Russelipe , prior of , 29 Rustein [ Rusteng , Rusteon , Rus teyng , Rusting ] , family , 3 ; dame Alice , 130 ; Aldreda , 129 ; Rob . , 129 ; Rog . , 12 , 38 ; Rog . , seneschal , 129 ; Will . , 130 , 139 , 439 


 III . 


 
 
 Rustington [ ' Rustincton ' ] , Suss . , II , 65-67 ; church , 90 ; manor , 68 Ryburgh [ Riburc , Rieburc ] , de , Agnes , 145 , 394 , 402 , 403 ; Ralph , 404 Ryburgh , Norf . , 296 , 393-395 ; lady of , 402 


 Great , Norf . , 296 , 402-405 Little , Norf . , church , 394 


 Rye [ Ria ] , de , family , 165 ; Agnes , 112 ; Hen . , 112 , 279 , 299 ; Herbert , 112 ; Hubert , 113 , 127 , 258 , 279 ; Rob . , 190 


 
 
 barony , 126 , 128 , 132 ; honor , 151 , 279 , 280 


 Ryes , de , Adam , 166 ; Eudes , 165 ; Hubert , 165 ; Rohaise , 166 


 See Fitz - Hubert 


 Ryngesdon . See Ringstone Rys , West , 337 


 Ryseby , de , John , 404 ; Tho . , 403 Rysinge , de . See Rising Ryston , Norf . , 328 , 383 ; 


 383 ; manor , 


 383 Ryveshale . See Riveshale 


 
 
 SACHAUVILLA [ Sackevill ] . Sauquevill Saddlescombe , 


 313-321 


 
 
 See 


 
 
 Suss . , 296 , 


 Safrid the Falconer , II St. Alban's , abbey , 5 , 155 , 198 , 208 , 217 , 252 


 
 
 310 , 


 
 
 abbots - 403 ; Paul , 252 ; Ric . , 5 monks - 157 ; Tho . , 13 


 St. Julian's hospital near , 217 St. Amand [ Seynt Amaund ] , de , family , 165 ; Amauri [ Amaury , Aumary ] , 156 , 245 , 320 ; Ralph , 245 


 
 
 St. Anselm , 298 


 St. Aubin , nunnery , 422 


 St. Audoen , de , Ralph , 31 


 St. Bernard , canons of , 12 St. Botolph ( Boston ) , Lincs . , 95 St. Botolph's . See Colchester St. Briaval , constable of , 50 St. Clare [ Sencler , Seyncler , Seynt clere , Sinclair ] , de , family , 165 , 168 , 248 , 279 , 280 , 297 , 435 ; Alice , 76 ; Clemency , 288 ; dame Clemency , 287 ; Gilb . , 435 ; Gunnor [ Gunnora ] , 251 , 291 ; Hamon , 167-168 , 178 , 220 , 248 , 251 , 279 , 280 , 288 ; Hubert , 287-288 , 291 ; Hugh , 287 , 291 ; Jo . , 75 , 330 , 343 , 398 , 435 ; Ric . , 381 , 396 ; Will . , 178 , 287-288 , 


 291 


 
 
 St. Denis [ Dennis ] , de , Jo . , 438 ; Ric . , 279 ; Rog . , 1So ; Sarra , 180 St. Denis , monks of , 245 


 St. Edmund's Bury , Suff . , 316 , 361 abbey , 225 , 226 , 303 , 361-362 


 2 K 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 514] ===
 
 
 498 INDEX 


 
 
 St. Edmund's Bury , abbots — 122 , 127-128 , 137 , 179 , 187 , 359 , 361– 363 , 396 , 435 ; Anselm , 360 ; Hen . , 363 ; Hugh , 360 ; Ording , 360 ; Sam son , 128 , 360-362 


 
 
 fee , 127 , 137 ; honor , 317 ; monks , 360 St. Evroul [ Evroult ] , abbey , 77 , 166 ; monks , 300 


 
 
 St. Fromond's ( dioc . Bayeux ) , priory , 81 


 
 
 St. George , de , Ellis , 60 ; Ralph , 66 ; Ric . , 66 ; Will . , 59 


 St. Hilary , de , Jas . , 242 ; Matilda , 242 


 St. Jean de Falaise , abbey , 141 St. John , de , family , 1 , 56–61 , 65 ; Adam , 58 ; Agatha , 58 ; Alice , 58 ; Cecily , 56 ; Edm . , 60 , 331 ; Edw . , 36 , 59 , 92-93 ; Sir Edw . , 40 ; Eva , 92-93 ; Godeheld [ Godeheut , Godeude ] , 57-58 ; Hugh , 45 , 59 , 60 , 331 ; Isabel , 60 , 331 ; Joan , 40 ; John , 58-59 , 93 ; Mabel , 58 ; Margt . , 60 ; Mirabel , 60 ; Muriel , 56–57 ; Olive , 57 , 61 m .; Rob . , 57-59 ; Rog . , 56-57 , 61 , 313 ; Will . , 9 , 56-58 , 60–61 , 73 , 85 , 195 


 St. Katherine ( on the Thames ) , 


 
 
 church , 56 


 St. Ledger , de , Ralph , 158 , 159 St. Margaret , Essex , 188 


 St. Martin , de , family , 165 ; Alice , 12 ; Alured , 12 ; Constantia , 73 ; God frey , 73 ; Ralph , 299 ; Reg . , 325 ; Sir Rog . , 326 ; Will . , 375 St. Mary , de , Nicholay , 365 ; 


 Ric . , 


 
 
 365 


 St. Mary de Pré , church , 10 St. Maur [ ' Semor ' ] , de , John , 275 ; Will . , 275 


 
 
 St. Medard , de , Asketill , 281 St. Neots , Hunts . , 251 


 priory , 258 , 264 , 286 ; prior , 255 , 260-261 , 264 ; monks , 263 St. Nicholas , de , Tho . , 222 


 
 
 St. Omer , de , Will . , 190 


 St. Omer , abbey , 298 


 St. Owen , de , Godeheuda , 


 
 
 44 ; 


 Ralph , 44-45 , 60 


 St. Paul [ St. Pol ] , de , family , 297 ; Agnes , 418 ; count , 275 , 401 ; Rob . , 418 ; Will . , 418 


 St. Peter , de , Margt . , 77 ; Urian , 77 St. Peter of Burgh , 281 


 St. Philibert , de , family , 60 ; Sir Jo . , 60 ; Margt . , 60 


 St. Pierre sur Dive , abbey , 281 ; abbot , 104 , 282 


 St. Valery , de , Guy , 269 St. Valery , honor , 236 , 240 St. Victor , de , Rog . , 315 Saintbury , Gloucs . , 419 Sakevile . See Sauquevill 


 
 
 Salcey , forest , 170 Salcovill , de , Ric . , 107 Saleman , Rob . , 294 


 Salford , Oxon . , manor , 38 Salingeford , ' Norf . , 300 Salisbury , Will . of , 319 Salisbury , 34 


 
 
 4 


 
 
 440 


 Sall , Norf . , 319-320 , 441 ; chaplain of , 438 ; church , 439 


 Salnervill , de , Gilb . , 87 


 
 
 bishops - 236 , 283 , 313 ; H. , 86 n . earls — 171 ; Will . de Longespée , 


 
 
 Salscombe , fee , 66 


 Salthouse , Norf . , 370 , 373 , 375 Salvage , la , Geoff . , 414 ; 


 
 
 Matilda , 414 ; Rob . , 414 Sampford , de , Sir Rog . , 232 Sampford , Essex , hund . , 203 , 204 


 
 
 dame 


 
 
 S 


 
 
 Peverel , Devon , 364 


 Sampson , Master Hen . , 284 Sancto de ( surnames ) . Saint Sand , 309 


 ' Sanda . ' See Wickensands , Suss . Sandal with Wakefield , Yorks . , castle and manor , 306-308 , 420 Sandervill [ Sandrevill ] , de , family , 2 ; Alice , 88 ; Gilb . , 10 ; Starius , 88 ; Tho . , 88 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 See 


 
 
 Sandes , Suss . , 305 


 " 


 Sandes , ' Sandys . ' See Wicken sands , Suss . 


 Sandford ( St. Martin ) , Oxon . , 167 Sandhurst , Gloucs . , 50 Sandon , 207 


 · Berks . , 85 


 Essex , St. Andrew , church , 149 Sandown , Surr . , hospital , 19 , 20 Sandringham , Norf . , 2 , 120-121 Sandwic , de , family , 2 ; Hen . , 101 , 246 ; Joan , 246 ; Jo . , 101 ; Sir Jo . , 102 ; Juliana , 184 ; Nich . , 102 ; Sim . , 184 


 Sandy [ Sandei , Sandeye ] , de , family , 165 ; Hen . , 267 ; Hugh , 267 ; Rob . , 254 


 Sandy , Beds . , 167 , 248–251 , 253-254 , 263-264 ; church , 256 ; Ingram , parson , 267 ; manor , 168 , 248 , 257 Sanes , de , family , 297 ; Aubrey , 


 436 ; Gilb . , 436 ; Jo . , 436 Sante Fande , de , Will . , 69 Santiago , 32 , 243 , 319 , 346 , 387 , 404 Santon , Norf . , 311 , 336 


 Sanzaver [ Sainzaver , Sanzaveir , San zavier , Saunzaver , Saunzavoir , Senzaver , Sine Averio ] , de , family , I , 3 , 24-26 , 62 , 63 ; Barthol . , 154 155 ; Eliz . , 26 ; Hugh , 14 , 25 , 26 n . , 44 , 63 ; Isabel , 25 ; Matilda , 24 , 25 ; Ralph , 10 , 20 , 24-26 , 67 ; Ranulf , 7 ; Reiner , 4 , 9 , 154 ; Rob . , 24 ; Tho . , 26 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 515] ===
 
 
 INDEX 499 


 
 
 Sapecote , 77 Sapiston , de , Will . , 360 


 Sapperton , Gloucs . , 33-34 ; manor , 


 
 
 33 


 Saracen , Peter , 42 


 Sarcillis , de , Humph . , 8 


 Sarsden , Oxon . , 208 


 
 
 Sartilli [ Sartellei , Sartilla , Sortell ] , de , family , 60 ; Emma , 41 , 60 ; Geoff . , 60 ; Gilb . , 41 , 60-61 ; Humph . , 60 ; Nigel , 60 ; Will . , 301 Sasselin , 166 


 
 
 ( of Childerditch ) , Essex , 202 ( of Layer Breton , Essex ) , 199 ( of Pinchpoles in Manewden , Essex ) , 201 


 Saulle , de , Matt . , 438 ; Tho . , 438 ; Warin , 438 


 Saund by Poynings , Suss . , 346 Saunford [ Sanford ] , de , family , 2 ; Alvric , 327 ; Hugh , 368 ; Joan , 377 ; Ric . , 96 ; Tho . , 96 Sauquevill [ Sachauvilla , Sackevill , Sakevile , Sakevill , Saqueville , Sauchevill , Saukevill ] , de , family , 165 ; Andrew , III , 115 , 329 ; Aubrey , 271 ; Clemency , 314 , 317 , 318 ; Ermentrude , 366 ; Jordan , III , 314 , 317 , 318 ; Margery , 111 ; Ric . , 168 , 202 , 206 , 271 ; Will . , 271 fee , 202 Sausemares [ Sausemer ] , family , 164 ; Jo . , 201-202 


 351 


 Sauvage , le , Jas . , 105 ; Rob . , Sauve , de , Bernard , kt . , 78 Savary . See Bohun , de Savery , Margery , 222 ; Pet . , 222 Savoy , de , family , 2 ; Bernard , 78 , 368 , 377 ; Pet . , 246 , 278 , 305 Sawbridgeworth , Herts . , 164 , 167 , 168 , 225–226 , 230 , 250 Sawley , abbot of , 333 Sawston [ Sausiton ] , de , John , 219 ; Will . , 219 


 
 
 Sawston , Cambs . , 155-156 , 164 , 217– 219 ; manor , 156 


 Sawtrey , abbey , 285 , 371 ; Adam , abbot , 286 


 Saxham , de , family , 297 ; Alice , 433 ; Ralph , 433 ; Will . , 433 Saxlingham , de , Ric . , 126 ; Richer , 125 


 
 
 Saxlingham , Norf . , 102 , 107 , 109 Saxony , 133 , 141 , 317 ; duke of , 97 Saxthorpe , Lincs . , 28 


 
 
 Say [ Sai ] , de , family , 226 , 296 , 438 ; Alice [ Aeliza ] , 314 , 318 , 320 ; Beatrice , 225 ; Geoff . , 214 , 225 226 , 314 , 318-320 , 385 , 441 ; Isabel , 226 ; Margery , 397 ; Will . , 225-226 , 250 , 305 , 314 , 322 N. , 316–320 , 439 , 440 ; Sir Will . , 226 , 319 , 350 Saynden , Kent , 184 Saysbury , Herts . , manor , 225 


 III . 


 
 
 Scaccario , de . See Chequers Scaldeford , Suss . , 39 


 
 
 Scalers , de , Alice , 349 ; Hardwin , 437 ; Jo . , 349 ; Ric . , 437 ; Will . , 


 
 
 2II 


 Scales [ Skales ] , de , family , 3 , 149 150 , 165 ; Alice , 149 , 270 , 329 ; Clemency [ Clementia ] , 149 , 150 , 270 ; Geoff . , 270 ; Isabel , 150 ; Margery , 114 ; Muriel , 149 ; Rob . , 114 , 149 , 150 , 270-271 , 328-329 , 426-427 ; Sir Rob . , 150 ; Rog . , 149 , 270 ; Will . , 149 


 Scales How , Norf . , 150 Scammonden , Yorks . , 44I 


 Scarning , Norf . , 334 , 337-338 , 395 , 398-399 


 Scerpenesse , ' marsh , Kent , 182 


 Schelvestrode . See Shelvestrode Schirle , de . See Shirle Schipedham , de , Ralph , 329 Schovill , de , Rog . , 325 Scole , Norf . See Osmundeston Scolland ( of Benefield , Suss . ) , 355 Scotland ( of Twineham , Suss . ) , 355 Scotlandus ( of Barming , Kent ) , 292 Scottow , Norf . , 432 


 Scoulton , Norf . , 296 , 385–389 Scoulton Burdeleis , Norf . , 442 Scredyngton , Lincs . , manor , 395 Scrope [ Scrop ] , le , Geoff . , 417 ; Hen . , 418 ; Sir Hen . , 192 ; Ric . , 418 ; Will . , 418 


 Scroteby , Norf . , 348 Sculla ( of Feltwell ) , 311 


 Sculthorpe , Norf . , 393 ; manor , 395 Scures , de , Rog . , 335 


 Scuretot . See Surretot 


 
 
 1 


 
 
 Scyrta , ' Kent , 193 


 Seabeach [ ' Senebeche ' ] , Suss . , 60 Seaford , Suss . , 307 Seagrave , Leics . , 245 Seamer , Yorks . , 18 Seaton , 253 


 Seaton , Rutl . , 111 , 113 Seculer , Master Alex . le , 53 Sées ( St. Martin ) , abbey , 2 , 17 , 21 , 23 , 65 , 83 , 89 , 90 , 268 ; abbot , 21 , 84 


 
 
 Seething , Norf . , 3 , 135-137 , 148 , 149 , 436 ; manor , 392 


 
 
 Sefort , de , Law . , 251 


 Segrave , de , justiciary , 397 ; Nich . , 209 ; Steph . , 29 


 Seingeham , ' Norf . , 394 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 Seinges [ Seingis , Senge , Senges , Seynges ] , de , family , 3 ; Margery , 136 ; Matilda , 122 , 136 ; Ranulf , 135 ; Ric . , 121 , 133 , 135-136 ; Sir Ric . , 136 ; Rob . , 135 ; Walter , 136 ; Will . , 136 ; Sir Will . , 136 Seinure [ Segnure ] , Hugh , 13 ; Wal ter , 13 Sele , priory , 351 


 
 
 2K 2 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 516] ===
 
 
 500 INDEX 


 
 
 Seleham , de , Phil . , 21 Selham , Suss . , 1 , 19 , 20 , 21 Sellay , de , Hen . , 420 Selling , Kent , 330 Selliterne , de , Buci , 351 ; Will . , 


 351 Selton . See Shelton Selve [ Selves ] . Selventham . ' Suff . 


 Seman , Geoff . , 100 


 Semer , Suff . , 360 , 362-363 ; manor , 362 


 Semor . ' See St. Maur , de 


 Sencler . See St. Clare 


 Senebeche , de , Ric . , 60 ; Tho . , 59 Seneschal . See Foliot 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 See Shelves 


 See Thelnetham , 


 
 
 king's . See Stokes 


 Sens , count Rob . of , 67 


 ' Sentinges . ' See Chinting , Suss . Senzaver . See Sanzaver 


 
 
 Serdesley , Suff . , 317 


 Serjeant , king's , 78 


 Serlo ( of Bowers Gifford , Essex ) , 220 Sernys . See Cernes Sevenhampton , Wilts . , 164 , 213 , 224 Sey , de , Aveline , 22 ; Jo . , 22 


 Seyton , de , Ric . , 64 Shadwell , Norf . , 326 


 
 
 Shaftesbury , 288 


 Shalbourn , Berks . , 85 


 Shambroke by Cliffe , Kent , 185 


 Shanbrook , ' Kent , 184 


 Sharnborne , de , Andrew , 139 ; Nich . , 


 
 
 129 


 Sharnwick , 310 , 368 


 Sharrington , Norf . , 367 


 Shawell , Leics . , 96 


 Sheering , Essex , 409 , 410 


 Sheffield , 335 


 Shefford , Beds . , 260 


 Hardwick , Beds . , 259–261 ; pre ceptory , 261 


 Berks . , 207 


 West , Berks . , 58 ; manor , 57 Sheldon [ Scheldon ] , de , Ranulf , 136 


 Sheldon , Derbys . , 77 


 Sheldwick , Kent , 330 Shelford , Notts . , priory , 113 Shelley , Suff . , 212 


 Yorks . , 419 , 420 Shellow , Essex , 273 Shelly , Suss . , 330 Shelsley , Worcs . , 343 


 Beauchamp , Worcs . , manor , 343 Shelton [ Selton ] , de , family , 2 ; Alice , 123 ; Hen . , 122-123 ; Isabel , 122 ; Jo . , 122-123 ; Sir Jo . , 123 ; Jordan , 123 ; Kath . , 122 ; Margt . , 123 ; Nich . , 123 ; Olive , 122 ; Ralph , 123 ; Ranulf , 121–122 ; Sir Ric . , 122 ; Rob . , 121-123 ; Tho . , 122 ; Will . , 121 Shelton , Norf . , 121 , 123 


 
 
 Shelve in Lenham , Kent , 164 , 199 , 294 


 Shelves [ Selva , Selve ] , de , family , 164 ; Adam , 199 ; Amis [ Amisius ] , 199 ; Guy , 199 ; Jo . , 199 ; Law . 199 ; Margt . , 199 ; Steph . , 199 ; Will . , 199 Shelvestrode [ Shilverstrode ] , de , Eva , 92 , 93 ; John , 92 , 93 ; Roger , 20 , 92 , 93 


 Shenley , Herts . , 198 Shepley , de , Matt . , 419 , 420 Shepley , Yorks . , 297 , 419-420 Sheppey , Kent , 332 


 
 
 priory , 194 ; nuns , 194 Shepton Malet , Soms . , manor , 247 Shere , Surr . , 296 , 346 , 355–359 Shereford , Norf . , 110 , 115 , 126 , 131 , 334 , 337-338 ; church , 311 , 334 Sherfield , Hants . , 376 , 377 Shermanbury , Suss . , 351 , 352 Shernborne [ Sharnborne , Shern bourne ] , Norf . , 129 , 130 , 145 , 393-395 , 404 Sherringham , Norf . , 398 Sherrington , Bucks . , 258-259 , 363 366 ; manor , 260 Shifford , Oxon . , 171 , 173 Shipbourne , Kent , 22 , 23 


 Shipdham , Norf . , 327 , 329 , 330 , 336 , 


 
 
 429 


 Shiplake , Oxon . , 38 


 
 
 Shippenhull , Oxon . , 244 


 Shippy ( in Tilney ) , Norf . , 300 


 Shipton under Wychwood , Oxon . , 


 Shirburn , 


 lord of , 237 ; 


 Oxon . , manor , 236 Shireford [ Sireford ] , de , family , 131 ; Eustace , 131 ; Nich . , 131 ; Will . , 131 


 Shirle , de , James , 337 ; Ralph , 337,338 Shirley , family , 298 Shitlington , Norf . , 181 


 Shittlehanger , N'hants . , 413 , 414 Shoebury , Essex , 294 


 Shopwyke , Suss . , 53 , 69 , 70 , 76 ; 


 
 
 242 ; manor , 243 


 
 
 manor , 70 


 Shordych , de , Joan , 402 ; Sir Jo . , 402 ; Nich . , 402 


 Shorne , de , Master Hen . , 222 ; Jo . , 197 


 Shortgrave ( in Newport ) , Essex , 211 Shorthampton , Oxon . , 242 


 
 
 Shotesham , Norf . , 3 , 137-138 ; All Saints ' church , 137 


 Shouldham , Norf . , 139 , 140 ; priory , 319 ; prior , 319 , 373 , 388 Shrambroke [ Srawingbroc ] by Cliffe , Kent , 183 


 
 
 Shrewsbury , 372 


 Shrivenham , Berks . , 107 


 Shropham , Norf . , 8 , 13 , 108 , 126 , 132-134 , 151–152 , 202 , 206 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 517] ===
 
 
 INDEX 501 


 
 
 Shulbrede [ Sylebrede ' ] , priory , 29 ; 


 canons , 76 ; prior , 20 


 Shuldebrede , ' Suss . , 20 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 Shute , Gloucs . , 383 


 Shyre , de , Rog . , 357 Sibford , Oxon . , 209 


 
 
 1 


 
 
 Sibton , Suff . , 317 , 318 ; abbey , 136 , monks , 178 , 


 
 
 316 ; abbot , 319 ; 343 ; priory , 314 , 321 Siderston , Norf . , 372 Sidestrand , Norf . , 328 , 330 , 334 , 336 , 


 
 
 338 


 Siloam . See Syleham , Kent 


 
 
 Silsoe , 267 


 Silva , de , Durand , 17 


 Simon , Master , king's cook , 293 Simon ( of Feltwell ) , 370 


 
 
 ( of Payton Hall ) , Essex , 371 ( of Rockland All Saints ) , 322 Sinclair . See St. Clare Sine Averio . See Sanzaver Singleton , Suss . , 10 , 11 ; manor , 87 ; vicarage , 19 Sinnington , Yorks . , church , 356 ; manor , 440 Sire , Edmund , 138 


 le , John , 337 


 
 
 Sireve , le , Reiner , 435 Sisland , Norf . , 117 , 136 , 138 Sithiu , St. Bertin , abbey , 298 Siward , hunter , 242 


 ( of Worth , Suss . ) , 334 Skales . See Scales Skegeton , de , Hen . , 443 Skipton in Craven , honor , 35 , 188 , 223 , 383 


 Slaugham , Suss . , 310 , 329 , 330 , 334 ; manor , 330 


 Slayhill , Kent , manor , 185 


 Sledmere , Yorks . , 434 


 Slindon , Suss . , 49 , 51 


 
 
 Slipe , in Sheppey , Kent , marsh , 194 Sluys , battle , 330 


 Small Hythe [ Smalhede ] , Kent , 159 Smethden , Norf . , 395 


 Smetheton , de , Ellis , 261 


 Smithdon , Norf . , hund . , 426 


 Smithfield , St. Barthol . , priory , 198 Smythewyke , Suss . , 326 


 Snaith , Yorks . , 171 


 Snellingmilne ( or Doverbeck ) , III 


 112 


 Sneteholt , ' 309 


 Snetesham [ Snetisham ] , de , Alan , 145 , 425 ; Geoff . , 394 ; Matilda , 146 ; Pet . , 121 ; Ralph , 146 ; Ric . , 394 ; Rob . , 121 , 145-146 , 425 ; Will . , 146 


 Snetterton , Norf . , 2 , 3 , 8 , 117-119 , 126 , 131-132 , 385 


 
 
 M 


 
 
 Snettisham , Norf . , 3 , 13 , 103 , 110 , 129–130 , 138-139 , 140-141 , 145–146 , 213 , 393-396 , 404 , 425-427 ; church , 6 ; manor , 15 


 
 
 ' Sniterle , ' ' Snyterle . ' See Blakeney . Sniterlee , Norf . , 367 


 Snitterby , Norf . , 95 , 365 , 366 Snitterton [ Sniterton , Snyterton ] , de , family , 3 , 131 ; Christiana , 126 ; Hugh , 132 ; Margery , 126 ; Matilda , 126 ; Tho . , 115 , 126 


 Snore [ Snora ] , de la , family , 434 ; Jo . , 434 ; Ralph , 433 ; Will . , 434 Snore Brom , la , family , 297 Snoring , Norf . , 381 


 Little , Norf . , 296 , 394-395 , 402 


 
 
 405 


 Soberton , Hants . , 355 , 357-358 ; manor , 356 


 Soc , de , Will . , 264 Soham , Cambs . , 128 Sokeburne , in Petworth , Suss . , 27 Sokeman , Alwin , 220 


 
 
 Soley , hamlet of Chilton , Wilts . , 235 Sombourne , Little , Hants . , 96 Someri [ Somery , Sumeri , Sumery ] , 


 de , family , 125 , 164 , 198 ; Adam , 198 ; Sir Adam , 198 ; Ellis , 198 ; Geoff . , 199 ; Isabel , 34 ; Joan , 118 ; John , 34 , 89 , 198 , 199 ; Miles , 198 ; dame Muriel , 198 ; Nicholaa or Nicole , 14 , 33 , 44 , 49 , 54 , 71 , 76 , 80-81 , 91 , 94 , 95 , 115 , 124 , 134 , 136 , 144 , 146 , 148 ; Sir Ric . , 199 ; Roberge , 198 ; Rog . , 14 , 33 , 36 , 44 , 49 , 54 , 71 , 76-77 , 80-81 , 91 , 94-95 , 115 , 118 , 124 , 134 , 136 137 , 144 , 146 , 148 , 198 , 328 , 434 Somerleyton , Suff . , 152 , 429 Somerset , 236 


 
 
 Somersham , Suff . , 164 , 174-177 , 247 Somerton , Oxon . , 234 , 236 


 Son of Adam , Rog . , 54 ; Sim . , 293 294 ; Will . , 125 


 
 
 Agnes lady of Ryburgh , Ralph and Thomas , 402 


 Ailwin , Alan , 347 ; Hen . , 347 Alan , Eudes [ Ido , Idonis ] , 17 , 27 ; Geoff . , 17 ; Rob . , 413 ; Will . , 12 Albert , Godfrey , 7 , 8 , 133 Albyn , Rob . , 442 


 
 
 Aldstan , Berard , 360 


 Alsinene , Will . , 310 


 Alvred , Adam , 7 , 8 , 393 , 394 ; lady Beccha , wife , 393 , 394 ; Matt . , 


 
 
 7 ; Rog . , 393 , 394 


 
 
 Amauri , Rob . , 410 Anker . See Aucher Ansger , Rob . , 129 


 Ansgot , Adam , 129 ; Ralph , 129 ; Rog . , 129 


 Arthur , Will . , II 


 Aucher or Anker , Tho . , 158 


 Aunsel , Brian , 246 


 
 
 Azo [ Aze , Azei ] , Geoff . , 42 , 43 , 


 46 n . 


 
 
 Azon , Geoff . , 394 Azur , Suain , 413 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 518] ===
 
 
 502 INDEX 


 
 
 Son of Baldwin , Geoff . , 231 ; Will . , 231 


 
 
 Bernard , Tho . , 255 , 262 


 Brien , Ralph , 127 , 313 ; Agnes , wife , 127 


 Brien II , Ralph , 138 


 Brun , Ralph , 8 


 Cana , Savary , 65 , 67 ; Muriel , wife , 65 


 Colswain , Picot , 56 


 Conan , Alan , 76 


 Constantine , Peter , 202 ; Will . , 167 , 200 , 202 


 Corbucion , Rob . , 4 , 102 , 116 , 119-121 , 123 , 127 


 Croc the huntsman , Rainald , 


 
 
 234 


 
 
 the dean of Grimston , Rog . , 133 Drew , Ralph , 418 


 Edstan or Elstan , Walter , 360 Edward of Westminster , Otho , 


 
 
 184 


 
 
 Erneis , Will . , 56 Eudes , Alan , 27 Euerwin , Ric . , 181 Fukerel , Rog . , 335 Fulcher , Warin , 


 
 
 182 , 187 


 
 
 Warin , 182 ; Will . , 


 
 
 Fulk , Rog . , 287 ; Will . , 27 Geremund , Swen , 220 


 
 
 Gerold , Ralph , 222 ; Ric . , 216 ; Rob . , 94 


 Godebert , Lambert , 201 Godric , Hubert , 103 ; Ralph , 4 Godric , sewer , Ralph , 102 , 103 ; Letselina , wife , 102 


 
 
 Godriche , Ralph , 9 


 Golda [ Golde ] , Hugh , 309 , 310 , 334 , 335 


 Golle , Wlwin , 311 


 Gozo , Gilb . , 310 , 355 


 
 
 Gulbert , Will . , 300 


 Guy the sheriff , Will . , 315 Hacon [ Hacun ] , Ric . , 8 , 138 Hamon , Gerard , 197 


 
 
 Hascu , Geoff . , 42 


 Heloise , Anselm , 144 ; Mar gery , wife , 144 


 
 
 Henry I , Robert , 90 


 Henry , Pet . , 347 ; Saher , 198 Henry , mayor of London , Peter , 


 
 
 348 


 Herlwin [ Herlewin , Herluin ] , Ralph , 4 , 117 , 131-132 , 335 


 Hermer , Drew , 418 


 Hingam , Walter , 61 ; Mary , wife , 61 


 
 
 Hubert , Adam , 157 , 182 , 197– 198 , 217 ; Eudes . See Eudes the 


 sewer 


 
 
 Hugh , Hugh , 310 , 311 , 313 , 334 ; Jo . , 375 ; Ralph , 131 , 310 


 Humphrey , Humph . , 167 , 273 ; Rob . , 22 , 361 ; Walter , 175 , 409 


 
 
 Son of Humphrey , Walter - Agnes , wife , 175 


 Ingan ( or Ingald ) , Walter , 61 Isabel , Tho . , 420 


 John , Will . , 243 , 356 ; Liniota , wife , 243 


 Joscelin the castellan , Ralph , 


 II , 443 


 
 
 Lambert , Godebald , 201 Lefstan , Ailwin , 347 Lemmer , Adam , 360 Leofstan , Rob . , 347 Martin , Ric . , 340 


 Miles of Gloucester , Roger , 105 Morin , Rob . , 52 , 62 


 Nicholas , Will . , 382 


 
 
 Nigel , Ralph , 310 , 345 ; Ric . , 171 Ogger , Alan , 210 


 Orgar , Leofstan , 347 Osbert , Ric . , 127 , 135 


 
 
 Other , Walter , 347 


 Peter , Jo . , 127 n . , 132 ; Ralph , II , 151 , 202 ; Reg . , 272 ; Ric . , 371 ; Tho . , 394 


 Pirot , Alan , 155 Rainald , Will . , 327 


 Ralph , Brian , 21-22 , 29 ; Hugh , 310 , 315 ; Pet . , 394 - Lefquene , wife , 394 ; Ralph , 299 , 312 , 313 ; Rob . , 430 ; Rog . , 394 ; Will . , 27 , 409 , 418 


 Randulf , Will . , 371 


 
 
 Ranulf , Hugh , 322 ; Will . , 311 , 353 Reidi , Renner , 310 , 327 


 Reiner , Nich . , 435 ; Rainald , 327 ; Will . , 56 , 434 


 Renard , Rog . , 298 , 303 , 385 Renner [ Rain ' ] , Hugh , 310 , 327 ; Rainald , 310 , 327 


 Richard , Ralph , 88 ; Will . , 201 , 


 
 
 212 


 
 
 Robert , Alan , 26 Barthol . , wife , 400 


 
 
 400 ; Camilla , 


 Joan , 


 
 
 Gilb . , 400 , 401 ; mother , 400 


 Jo . , 335 


 Nich . , 93 ; Hilaria , mother , 


 
 
 P 


 
 
 93 


 Osbert , 


 401 ; Osmund , 411 ; Phil . , 121 , 195 ; Ralph , 28 ; Ranulf , 28 ; Ric . , 255 , 267 ; Rob . , 289 ; Will . , 197 , 363 


 Roderic , Humph . , 334 


 
 
 Roger , Ernald , 438 ; Hen . , 36 ; Hugh , 411 ; Rob . , 407 , 437 ; Rog . , 190 ; Walter , 386 ; Will . , 396 


 
 
 Roger ( earl ) , Hugh , 90 


 Rolland , Alan , 238 ; Sim . , 281 Sanzaver , Gildewin , 24 , 27 , 66 Savary , Geldwin [ Goldewin ] , 9 , 66 ; Estrangia , wife , 66 


 Ralph , 7 , 65-67 , 101 ; Savary , 66-67 . See Bohun , de 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 519] ===
 
 
 INDEX 503 


 
 
 Son of Simon , Jo . , 294 ; Rolland , 282 ; Silvester , 150 ; Sim . , 214 Spiruwin , Eudes , 120 Stephen , Hugh , 193 


 
 
 Swen , Rob . , 313 


 Techeling , Will . , 310 , 347 Tetbald , Rob . , 16 , 17 , 21 , 23-24 , 26 , 27 , 30 , 33 , 35 , 52 , 97 Thomas , Gilb . , 286 


 Reg . , 144 ; Beatrice , wife , 


 
 
 144 


 
 
 Thurold , Ralph , 394 Thurstan , Rob . , 17 Turgis , Will . , 273 Turstin , Will . , 355 


 Ulketell , chaplain , Henry , 152 ; Richard , 152 


 Walcher , Osbern , 178 ; Osbert , 


 Waleran , John , 376 , 378 Walter , Ralph , 52 


 Warin , Ralph , 310 , 370 Watson , Rob . , 5 


 Wibert , Will . , 376 William , Adam , 293-294 ; Charles , 117 n .; Geoff . , 245 ; Gilb . , 401 ; Hen . , 207 ; Jo . , 243 , 294 , 375 ; Nich . , 434 ; Ralph , 294 ; Rog . , 321 ; Will . , 310 , 375 , 436 Tho . , 356 , 400 ; Camilla , 


 
 
 177 


 
 
 wife , 400 


 the sewer , Drew , 396 ; Rog . , 396 ; Will . , 396 


 Wimar , Rog . , 396 ; Walter , 396 Wimer , Rog . the sewer , 381 Wulwin , Herbert , 50 See also Fitz 


 Sonde or Sondes , Joan , 352 ; Sir Jo . , 


 
 
 352 


 Sonde , Suss . , manor , 369 


 
 
 Soneworde [ Sonneworth ] , de . See Sunworth 


 
 
 Sortell , de , Rob . , 59 


 See Sartilli 


 
 
 Sotherton , Norf . , 324 


 Sotingham , de , Theodore , 245 


 Sousche . See Zouche 


 
 
 South Acre , Norf . , 396 


 Southall , in Great Dunmow , Essex , 


 
 
 400 ; manor , 401 Southampton , So ; forest , 53 , 377 ; gaol , 95 


 priory ( St. Denis ) , 6 , 34 ; canons , 


 
 
 157 


 
 
 St. Mary's , 292 


 South Hall manor , in Feltwell , 366 Southill , Beds . , 250 , 255 , 258 , 261 Southington [ Suterinton ] , Hants . , 356 Southmere , de , Martin , 134 Southover , Suss . , 311 ; church , 298 Southwark , canons of , 324 


 
 
 priors - 106 ; Alan , 324 St. Mary's , 347 


 St. Olaf , church , 309 


 
 
 Southwick [ Southwyke , [ Southwyke , Sulwyk ] , Hants . , 351 ; prior of , 95 ; priory , 88 , 89 


 Sowerby , Yorks . , manor , 307 , 441 Sowerbyshire , 441 


 Spalding , de , Pet . , 382 , 384 Spalding , monastery , 61 n . Spargrove ( in Batcombe ) , 


 manor , 25 


 
 
 Som . , 


 Sparham [ Sperham ] , de , Adam , 109 ; Barthol . , 109 


 Sparham , Norf . , 102 , 107 , 109 , 337 , 338 , 436 


 Sparsholt , Berks . , 164 , 223–224 Spencer , le , John , 237 


 Spershute [ Spereshutte ] , de , Nich . , 75 ; Pet . , 75 , 76 


 
 
 Spettisbury , Dors . , 248 


 Spilsbury , Oxon . , 242 , 243 


 Spinevill [ Spintevill ] , de , Ralph , 372 , 


 373 ; Will . , 371-373 Sprouston , de , Reg . , 399 Stacheden , de , Reg . , 250 Stagsden , Beds . , 250 , 255 Staines , de , Will . , 191 


 Stalisfield [ ' Stauefelle ' ] , Kent , 165 , 293 


 
 
 Stambourne , Essex , 188 


 Stambridge , Essex , manor , 294 Great , Essex , 294 Stamford , 442 Stamford , fair , 436 


 Lincs . , manor , 307 


 N'hants . , 284 ; tragedy , 283 Bridge , Yorks , 18 , 48 


 
 
 Stanbridge by Romsey , Hants . , 209 Standen , Wilts . , 84 ; chapel , 84 ; manor , $ 6 


 
 
 Huse , Wilts . , chapelry , 85 [ Standean ] , Suss . , 310 , 324 , 353 Stane , de la , Constantia , 73 Stanes , de , Phil . , 73 ; Will . , 191 Stanesgate , monastery , 313 Stanfield , Norf . , 5. 134 , 326 , 399 Stanford ( in Southill ) , Beds . , 255 , 258 , 261 , 267 


 Kent , 162 


 Norf . , 296 , 346 , 385-389 


 
 
 in Thorney , 309 


 Stanham , de , Barthol . , 336 


 
 
 Stanhoe , Norf . , 2 , 3 , 110-115 , 136– 137 , 148–149 , 299 


 Stanhow [ Stanho ] , de , family , 3 ; Hervey , 130 , 148 ; master Ric . , king's clerk , 149 


 Stanlake , Oxon . , 165 , 231–232 , 237– 242 


 
 
 Stanley , de , John , 375 ; Juliana , 375 ; Sim . , 375 


 Stanley , Wilts . , abbey , 63 , 84 


 
 
 in Pebmarsh Essex , manor , 409 Stanstead , Kent , 331 , 332 Suff . , manor , 128 


 
 
 [ Pebeneshe ] , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 520] ===
 
 
 504 INDEX 


 
 
 Stanstead , Suss . , manor , 15 Montfichet , Essex , 336 Stantmere , ' Essex , 202 Stanton , de , Cecily , 85 ; Emma , 85 ; Rob . , 48 


 Stanton Harcourt , Oxon . , church , 7 ( Warine ) , Wilts . , 99 Stanway , Essex , 288 East , Essex , 167 Stapelford , de , Ralph , 339 Stapleford , Wilts . , 84 , 85 Staplehurst , Kent , 158 , 159 Staploe , Beds . , 265 


 Stapulton , de , Will . , 246 


 
 
 &lt; 


 
 
 Starcolf ( of Tuddenham , Norf . ) , 148 Starston , Norf . , 102 


 
 
 Starthorpe , 85 


 Staundon , de , Orabella , 404 ; Rob . , 77 ; Will . , 404 


 Staunton , Worcs . , serjeanty , 108 


 Staveley , Derbys . , 419 Stedham , Suss . , I , 11 , 19 , 20 , 23 , 26 ; chaplain , 26 ; church , 17 , 26 ; recluse , 10 


 
 
 Steeple , Essex , 165 , 206 , 271 


 Aston , Oxon . , 164 , 182-185 Bumpstead , Essex , 400-402 ; manor , 402 Steiland , de , master Sim . , 160 Steill ' , de , Durand , 393 ; Gunnor , 


 
 
 393 


 Stephen , chamberlain , 27 ; Lora , wife , 27 


 
 
 Stevenbury ( in Preston Candover ) , Hants . , manor , 88 , 89 


 Steventon , Hants . , 272 


 Stevington ( Waltons ) , Essex , manor , 126 


 Stewkley , 364 


 Steyning , Suss . , 378 , 379 


 Stibbard , Norf . , 296 , 330 , 393-395 , 


 
 
 435 , 443 


 Stiffkey , Norf . , 102 , 107 ; manor , 392 Stillingfleet , Yorks . , 397 Stinton ( in Sall ) , Norf . , 296-297 , 314-321 , 438-441 ; manor , 322 n . Stivecle , de . See Stukeley Stixwould , priory , 189 Stockton , Norf . , 124 Stockwell , Surr . , 94 Stodland , Geoff . , 196 


 Stogs , ' Suss . , manor , 47 Stoke , Kent , 160 , 349 


 by Ipswich , 202 next Guildford , 333 Bardolf , Notts . , 141 Bruern , N'hants . , 297 , 413-414 Curcy , Soms . , 120 , 170 , 247 ; lord of , 340 


 Ferry , Norf . , 124 , 320 


 Holy Cross , Norf . , 2 , 119–120 Lyne or L'Isle , Oxon . , 172 , 364-366 ; lady of , 366 Suss . , 67 


 
 
 Stoke , North and South , Suss . , 1 , 46-48 


 Stoke , de , Rog . , 255 


 Stokes , de , Peter , 195 ; king's sene schal , 194 


 Stokesby , de , John , 206 Stondon , Beds . , 332 Stonore , de , John , 272 Stopeham , de , Ralph , 17 Stopham , Suss . , 19 , 20 , 23 , 24 , 34 , 36 , 62 


 Stopsley , Beds . , 209 


 Storrington , Suss . , 2 , 32 , 81-82 Stotfold , Beds . , 262 


 Stoughton [ Stocton ] , Suss . , II , 12 , 65 , 72 , 89 , 93-94 ; chapel , 44 ; church , 65 , 313 ; manor , 68 Stourmouth , Kent , 86 Stow , Suff . , 324 , 325 Stowell , de , Hen . , 71 Stowting , Kent , 3 , 161-163 Strabolgi [ Strathbogie ] , de , David , 279 , 344 , 382 , 412 , 427 : Joan , 279 , 344 , 412 


 
 
 See Athol 


 Stradbrook , Suff . , manor , 438-440 Strafford , Suff . , 193 


 Strange [ Straunge ] , 


 le . 


 See 


 L'Estrange 


 Stratfieldsaye , Berks . , hermitage , 398 Stratford , 313 ; abbess , 336 ; prioress , 336 


 Langthorne , 


 Essex , abbey , 


 203 


 St. Mary's , abbot , 260 , 264 Strathamton . ' See Strettington , Suss . 


 Straton [ Stratton ] , de , family , 3 ; Adam , 209 , 224 ; Ranulf , 148 Stratton , Norf . , 116 


 
 
 &lt; 


 
 
 Long , Norf . , 116 , 123 Oxon . , 297 , 410-413 Wilts . , 169 


 St. Margaret , Wilts . , 224 Streatley , Beds . , 155 Street , Suss . , 313 , 314 , 319 Streethall , Essex , 214-216 ; manor , 


 215 


 Stretlington [ Strathanton ] , II Strettington ( in Boxgrove ) , Suss . , 41 , 42 , 44-45 , 55 , 58 , 60 , 90 ; manor , 44 


 
 
 West , Suss . , 58 


 ' Strodewic , ' Suss . , wood , 66 Studley , prioress of , 241 


 Stukeley [ Stivecle ] , de , Joscelin , 180 Sturmer , Essex , 390 , 400 , 401 Sturmi [ Sturmy ] . See Esturmi Sturmyn , Roger , 138 


 Stutevill , de , family , 2 , 3 , 142 , 296– 


 297 ; Anselm , 405 ; Beatrice , 405 ; Dionisia , 143 ; Eustace , 142 ; Gunnora , 142 ; Isabel , 396–397 ; Joan , 398-399 ; Jo . , 142–143 ; 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 521] ===
 
 
 INDEX 505 


 
 
 Margt . , 397 ; Margery , 397 ; Nich . , 142-143 ; Sir Nich . , 143 ; Osmund , 396-397 , 405 ; Rob . , 142 , 374 , 398-399 ; Rog . , 405 ; Will . , 28–29 , 142 , 335 , 396-398 


 Stutevill ( ? ) , Norf . , 437 


 Stutton , Suff . , church , 122 Suain [ Suane ] of Essex , 276 , 277 Sudbury , All Saints , Suff . , church , 198 


 ' Sudflet , ' Norf . , 428 Suffolk , archdeacon . 


 line 


 
 
 Suheth , de , Edm . , 343 


 
 
 Rob . de Ufford , earl of , 430 sea - coasts , 26 


 
 
 + 


 
 
 See Walche 


 
 
 Suldeham , de , Matt . , 332 


 Sullington , 351 


 Sumeri [ Sumery ] , de . See Someri Sumerton , ' Petworth , manor , 18 Sunwood Farm , Hants . , 55 Sunworth [ Soneworde , Sonneworth , Sunewrthe ] , de , family , I ; Joan , 54 ; Othuer [ Otewy , Otuer ] , 54 ; Ralph , 54 ; Rob . , 54 ; Sim . , 54 ; Tho . , 54 ; Will . , 54 Sunworth , in Buriton , Hants . , I , 54-55 


 Surlingham , Norf . , 109 , 137-138 , 441 Surretot , 309 Surrey , countesses - Isabel de Warenne , 312 ; Joan de Warenne , 307 


 
 
 earls - 297 , 323 , 329 , 344 , 374 , 388 , 393 , 415 , 434 , 443 ; John de Warenne , 76 , 305 , 306 , 319 , 320 , 325 , 329 , 333 , 342 , 359 , 369 , 384 , 394-395 , 410 , 414 , 415 , 420 , 433 , 435 , 441 ; Will . , 322 ; Will . de Warenne I , 355 , 382 ; Will . II , 371 , 381-382 ; Will . de Warenne , 300 , 308 , 313 , 315 , 339 , 387 


 and Sussex , Joan de Warenne , countess , 307 ; Jo . de Warenne , earl , 307 , 400 


 Sussex , earls - 104 ; Will . , 30 , 42 , 54 , 73 , IOI , 112 , 121 , 124 , 129 , 130 , 141 , 147 , 153 ; Will . de Aubigny , 7 , 10 , 12 


 See Arundel 


 
 
 coast defence , 25 ; forest , 31 , 76 Suthale , de , Ric . , 343 , 344 Suthmere , de , Jo . , 433 ; Martin , 133 Suthsex , de , Alice , 314 , 320 ; dame Alice , 316 


 
 
 Sutton [ Sudton ] , de , family , 165 , 222 ; Hugh , 20 ; Jo . , 375 ; Margt . , 221 ; Margery , 221 , 222 ; Pet . , 221 ; Rob . , 182-183 , 221 , 259 , 266-267 ; Sarah , 25 ; Walter , 25 Sutton , manor , II 


 
 
 Beds . , 165 , 268 ; manor , 263 Essex , 221 


 Kent , 182 , 198 ; manor , 218 


 
 
 Sutton Valence , Kent , 183 , 185 , 199 , 293 


 Norf . , 104 , 108 ; church , 56 , 


 Suss . , 1 , 16 , 17 , 19 , 20 , 27 , 353 ; church , 313 ; manor , 19 ; mill , 30 Wilts . , 85 Swamborough , 309 Swanberga , 309 Swanbourn , Bucks . , 364 Swanscombe , Kent , church , 106 ; honor , 103 ; manor and park , 108 Swansthorpe , Norf . , 109 Swanton , Norf . , 399 Swathings , Norf . , 422 Swathyng , Alice , 151 ; Edw . , 151 


 Swavesby , Cambs . , 36 Swilland , Suff . , 366 Swinbrook , Oxon . , 242 Swineshead , Lincs . , 107 Swinton , Yorks . , 84 Swyne , priory , 189 


 Sybenton [ Sipeton ] , Suss . , abbot of , 305 


 Syderstone [ Sydesterne ] , Norf . , 314 , 319 , 320 


 Syleham , Suff . , 183 , 275 Syresham , N’hants . , 245 


 
 
 K 


 
 
 104 


 
 
 TADCASTER , Yorks . , 18 Tadham ( Todham ] , Suss . , 55 , 58-60 Takeley [ Tachelei , Takele ] , de , Ade liz , 175 ; Ellis , 175 ; Muriel , 175 ; Will . , 175 , 176 


 
 
 Takeley , Essex , 164 , 167 , 174–177 Talbot [ Talebot ] , family , 297 , 415 ; Adam , 373-374 , 382 ; Agnes , 103 ; Alice , 403 , 404 ; Ermentrude , 169-171 , 361 , 415 ; Geoff . , 103 , 361 ; Gerard , 171 ; Gilb . , king's chamberlain , 338 ; Giles , 415 ; Girard , 361 ; Hugh , 361 , 415 ; Joan , 399 ; Jo . , 170-171 , 415 ; Quintin , 171 , 415 ; Ric . , 361 ; Samson , 372 ; Will . , 171 , 361 , 372 , 381 , 399 , 403-404 , 415 


 
 
 of Swanscombe , Kent , honor , 104 , 107-108 , 110 Taleworth , de , Sir Peter , 128 Talun , Raginild , 311 ; Rog . , 311 Tangmere , Suss . , church , 313 Taninden , Kent , 158 , 159 


 Tany [ Taney ] , de , Gilb . , 204 ; Ric . , 222 ; Rog . , 276 


 Tarrant [ Tarent ] , abbey , 78 ; nuns of , 68 


 Tarrant Gunville , Dors . , 42 Tarring , Suss . , 353 , 354 ; church , 353 manor , 354 Neville , Suss . , 353 Tasburgh , Norf . , 359 Tatcheworde . ' Hunts . 


 See 


 
 
 Tetworth , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 522] ===
 
 
 506 INDEX 


 
 
 Tateshale , de , family , 39 , 86 , 89 , 121 , 139 ; Emma , 384 ; Eva , 120 , 124-126 , 130-131 , 137 , 147 ; Hugh , 133 ; Joan , 86 , 108 , 120 , 123 ; Rob . , 13 , 14 , 34 , 36 , 39 , 44-45 , 47 , 51 , 74-75 , 85-86 , 88 , 107-108 , 119–131 , 133 , 136-137 , 144 , 147-148 , 172 , 384 ; Sir Rob . , 388 ; Rohaise , 172 Tateshale , barony , 133 , 147 ; fee , 429 Tathwell , Lincs . , 428 


 ' Tatituna . ' See Tuttington 


 
 
 Tatsfield , Surr . , 196 


 Tatterford , Norf . , 110 , 115 , 126 Tattersett , Norf . , 296 , 299 , 300 , 389 , 393-395 


 
 
 Taverham , de , family , 165 ; Bal dric , 279 , 398 ; Nich . , 279 ; Sim . , 279 , 399 Taverham , Norf . , 303 , 320 , 395 , 398 , 399 


 Taylor [ Taillur , Taylur ] , le , Emelina , 274 Rog . , 274 ; Thomasia , 274 Tedbald ( of Eaton Socon ) , 248 Tednambury , Herts . , 226 Tedric ( of Bowers Gifford , Essex ) , 220 Templars , the , 171 , 268 , 270 , 319 , 411 Tempsford , Beds . , 165 , 167 , 248 , 258-261 , 264 


 Tendring , Essex , 210 , 216 , 330 Tenerchebrai , de , Aveline , 363-364 ; Lucy , 364 ; Ralph , 364 ; Rob . , 363-364 


 Tenterden , Kent , 156 Terholme , in Burnham , marsh , 126 Terling , Essex , 252 


 Terrington [ Terinton ] , 309 , 425 Terry , cook , 12 


 Tesson [ Tessun ] , Ralph , 67 , 170 Tetbald ( of Pulborough , Suss . ) , 33 Tetworth , Hunts . , 288 


 
 
 Teversham , Cambs . , 376-378 Tevetshale , de , John , 128 


 Tew , Little , Oxon . , 182 , 184 , 185 , 


 
 
 232 


 Tewe , Tho . , 190 


 Tewkesbury , 39 


 
 
 Teyl [ Tylia , Tyvill ] , de , Ellen , 255 ; Geoff . , 254-255 ; Ralph , 255 See also Tyvill 


 Tey ' Mandeville , ' Essex , church , 212 Marks alias Tey Mandeville , Essex , 211 


 Tezelin , cook ( of Addington , Surr . ) , 347 


 
 
 ( of Perching , Suss . ) , 347 Thames , river , 184 , 278 Tharston , Norf . , 121 , 122 Thefford , Suff . , 338 


 Theford , de , Alice , 27 ; Phil . , 27 Thelnetham , Suff . , 433 


 
 
 Themelthorpe , Norf . , 297 , 319 , 436 Themeworth , de , Hawise , 382 


 Thenford , N'hants . , 227 , 229 , 238 , 240 Theobald , archbp . , 214 


 
 
 Thetford , Norf . , borough , 301 ; church , 311 


 
 
 Norf . , priory , 103 , 117 , 130–131 canons , 301 , 424 ; monks , 335 ; prior , 176 


 Theydon , Essex , 204 


 
 
 Gernon , Essex , 164 , 202-206 Thichesherst . ' See Chithurst , Suss . Thieves , women , 51 Thiryngton , de , Sir Will . , 427 Thixendale , Yorks . , 107 Thomas , clerk , of Tarring , 353 monk of St. Alban's , 13 


 Thompson , Norf . , 326 , 385 , 389 , 442 


 Thorganby , Yorks . , manor , 441 Thorington , Suff . , 3 , 127-129 , 322 Thorlee , ' Norf . , manor , 436 Thornbury , Herefs . , 191 Thornby , N'hants . , 380 Thorncote , Beds . , 262 Thorncroft , Surr . , Surr . , church , church , 166 ; 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 manor , 167 


 Thorncumb , Dors . , 71 Thorne , Yorks . , manor , 307 , 420 Thorney [ Thoreny ] , de , Margery , 74 , 75 ; Matilda , 74 ; Ric . , 25 , 74 , 75 ; Will . , 74 


 Thorney , Suss . , 43 , 44 , 74-75 , 83 , 309 Thorn Gumbald , Yorks . , 189 Thornwicks , Suss . , 39 


 Thorpe [ Thorp ] , de , family , 3 ; Alice , 130 , 326 , 388 , 395 ; Bea trice , 152 ; Isabel , 428 ; Jas . , 151 , 430 ; Jo . , 130 , 152 , 326 , 388 , 395 , 428 , 430 ; Margt . , 430 ; Rob . , 130 , 152 , 430 


 Thorpe ( dioc . of London ) , 167 


 by South Repps , church , 318 Holy Cross , Norf . , 120 Market [ Thorpmarch ' ] , Norf . , 314 ; manor , 319 ; mill , 315 See Baconsthorpe , Norf . Thorrington , Essex , 107 Three Houses , Herts . , 209 Threxton , Norf . , 334 Thundridge , Herts . , 64 Thurgarton , Norf . , 431-432 ; canons , 112 ; priory , III 


 Thurkelby [ Thurkeby ] , de , Rog . , 107 , 211 ; Tho . , 432 Thurlton , Norf . , 385 


 Thurning , Norf . , 436 


 Thurold of Wood Dalling , 394 Thurrock , Essex , 278 ; church , 277 ; manor , 277 


 West , Essex , 401 , 402 ; lord of , 


 
 
 147 ; manor , 278 Thursford , Norf . , 393 Thurstan , clerk , 12 


 
 
 despencer , 223 


 Thurstanland , Yorks . , 419 , 420 Thurston [ Therston ] , de , Eudes of , 424 ; Reg . , 122 ; Ric . , 122 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 523] ===
 
 
 INDEX 507 


 
 
 Thurston [ Thurstanston ] , on Hawk don , Suff . , 424 


 Thwaite , Norf . , 124 , 136–137 ; wind mill , 136 Tibenham , Norf . , 132 Tibetot , de . See Tybetot Tichenor , West , Suss . , 45 


 Tickhill , honor , 112 , 114 , 115 , 417 Tidcombe , Wilts . , 85 


 Tidworth , Wilts . , 86 


 
 
 Tilli [ Tilly ] , de , Dionisia , 416 , 417 ; Mabel , 417 ; Otes , 416 , 417 Tillington , Suss . , I , II , 18-20 , 23 , 30 , 35 ; church , 17 


 Tilney , Norf . , 150 , 297 , 300 , 325 , 423– 424 , 426-427 


 Tiltey , monks of , 373 


 Tirel . See Tyrel 


 
 
 Tirkebi , de , John , 162 Tirlingham , Kent , manor , 330 Tisun , Adam , 84 , 170 ; Avice or Amice , 84 ; Will . , 84 , 85 Titchwell , Norf . , 133 , 134 Titeberst , in Aldenham , Herts . , 293 , 294 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 Titeherste . ' See Chithurst , Suss . Tittleshall , Norf . , 140 , 141 , 326 , 395 , 398-399 ; church and manor , 141 , 397 


 Tocha , 298 


 Tocheswd . See Coxford 


 Toco , chaplain , 141 


 Toddington [ Tudinton ' ] , 


 Beds . , 


 manor , 105 


 in Lyminster , Suss . , manor , 23 nr . Arundel , manor , 17 Todham , Suss . See Tadham Toeni , de , family , 1 , 2 , 97 : Gilb . , 


 377 ; Ralph , 9 , 10 , 46 , 97 , 112 ; Rog . , 97 


 Toftes - rys , Norf . , 338 Tofts , Norf . , 334 , 337 , 385 , 387–388 , 393 ; church , 311 , 334 ; manor , 336 


 ( in Rockland St. Peter ) , Norf . , 


 322 


 
 
 West , Norf . , 309 , 326 Toicy , de , Ralph , 442 Tokyngton , de , Ralph , 197 Tolebu , de , Rob . , 170 Tolleshunt , Essex , 164 , 210-212 Darcy [ Tregoz ] , 205 Tollington , Suss . , 93 Tonbridge , de , Ric . , 334 


 Tony , de , Ralph , 368 ; Rog . , 67 , 369 Topcliffe , Yorks . , 18 ; manor , 19 Topcroft , Norf . , 1So 


 Toppefeld , Kent , 195 


 Torcy [ Torcei ] , de , Levina , 316 ; Ric . , 300 ; Will . , 316 


 Toreini [ Torinni , Tornei ] , de , family , I , 43 ; Cecily , 43-44 ; Mabel , 43 ; Margery , 43 ; Matilda , 43-44 ; Rob . , 7 ; Ric . , 43-44 ; Will . , 43 


 
 
 ' Torp . ' See Gowthorpe , Norf . See Thorp Market , Norf . Torrington , Black , Devon , 36 Torstanestuna , ' Suff . , 424 Tortington , Suss . , 1 , 37-39 ; canons , 


 II 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 priors - 47 , 100 ; Reiner , 53 , 98 Tosard , 381 Totemere , Suff . , fishery , 332 Tottington , Norf . , 2 , 117-119 , 132 , 385-386 , 389 ; parson of , 386 Toulouse , 74 , 285 , 301 , 421 


 Tounay , de , dame Ida , 368 Tounstall , ' Kent , 217 


 Tovi ( of Holkham , Norf . ) , 102 Towcester , N'hants . , 108 , 169 Towersey , Bucks . , 155 , 156 Tracy , de , Hen . , 377 ; Jo . , 44 Trafford , de , Hen . , 181 ; Matilda , 18I Trailli , de , Geoff . , 250 ; Philippa , 250 Trayford , 7 


 Trehan , Rob . , 339 


 Trehus . ' See Three Houses 


 Trent , river , 380 


 Treport , St. Michael's , 322 Tresgoz [ Tregoz , Treisgoz , Tresgod ] , family , 1 , 2 , 30-32 , 222 ; Edw . , 32 , 40 ; Emma , 31 ; Geoff . , 7 ; Hawise , 205 ; Hen . , 31-32 , 40 , 77 , 98 , 182 , 183 ; Sir Hen . , 82 ; Joan , 32 , 40 , 366-367 ; Jo . , 9 , 30-31 , 77 , 182 , 221 , 366–367 ; Nich . , 205 ; Nicholaa , 32 ; Pet . , 221 ; Phil . , 9 , 12 , 30-31 , 60 ; Ric . , 12 , 30-31 ; Rob . , 30-31 , 40-41 , 77 ; Sir Rob . , 32 ; Sibil , 77 ; Tho . , 31-32 , 40 , S2 , 98 , 182-183 ; Sir Tho . , 32 ; Will . , 30 , 31 Treve , Suss . , 19 , 20 , 35 ; chapel , 36 ; manor , 36 ; park , 54 


 Treve Park , in Tillington , Suss . , 23 River ( in Tillington ) , Suss . , chapel , 17 


 Treyford , Suss . , 1 , 52-54 ; chapel , 17 Troarn , St. Martin's , abbey , 2 , 41 , 90 , 96 ; abbot - Will . , 94 ; monks , 50 , 72 


 
 
 { 


 
 
 Trotsworth ( in Egham ) , Surr . , 71 Trottemenn , Rob . , 49 


 
 
 Trotton , Suss . , 65–67 ; manor , 68 Trumpington , de , family , 165 ; Agnes , 


 
 
 372 ; Everard , 262 ; Giles , 262–263 ; Isabel , 262 ; Jo . , 372 ; Matilda , 263 ; Rog . , 262-263 ; Will . , 262 Trumpington , Cambs . , 262 , 382 ; 


 
 
 ✔ 


 
 
 manor , 262 


 Trunch ( next Gimingham ) , Norf . , church , 299 


 Trusanvill [ Trussanvill ] , de , Reg . , 332 , 339 


 Tuamchereche , de , Ric . , 52 


 Tubeston , ' Essex , 175 


 Tuddenham , Beds . , 164 


 Norf . , 3 , 95 , 148 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 524] ===
 
 
 508 INDEX 


 
 
 Tuddenham , East , Norf . , 367 North , Norf . , 434 


 Suff . , 177-179 , 383 ; lady of , 179 Tudenham , de , Eva , 270 , 271 ; Gilb . , 


 
 
 178 ; Rob . , 270 , 271 


 Tuffesdon in Selkedon , ' Suff . , 71 Tunestale , Baldric , 279 ; Will . , 279 Tunstall , Norf . , 141 , 165 , 278-279 , 326 , 336 


 Suff . , 342 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Turbervill [ Trublevill ] , de , Hen . , 105 ; Hugh , 96 ; Ralph , 149 ; Will . , 300 Turgis , 55 


 
 
 ( of Roding ) , 187 


 ( of Roding Morel , Essex ) , 273 , 


 
 
 277 Turneham , de , family , 182 ; Bea trice , 356 ; Edeline [ Edelina ] , 69 , 71 , 183 ; Eleanor , 182 ; Eveline , 356 ; Steph . , 69 , 71 , 182-183 , 356 , 376 


 Turold [ Turald ] , 2 , 21 


 
 
 nephew of Wigot , 90 ( of Coltishall , Norf . ) , 327 ( of Filby , Norf . ) , 322 ( of Hackford , Norf . ) , 389 ( of Irmingland , Norf . ) , 395 ( of Wolterton , Norf . ) , 437 Turpin , Hen . , chamberlain , 42 ; Will . , 


 
 
 42 


 Turri , de , Nich . , 432 


 Turs , de , Ric . , 156 


 Turstaneton . See Thurston Turstin , 16 , 23 


 ( of Knowlton , Kent ) , 155 ( of Petworth ) , 17 


 Turvill [ Turevill ] , de , Matilda , 254 ; Ralph , 261 ; Rob . , 254 Tusard ( of Swanborough ) , 309 Tuttington , Norf . , 431-433 ; church , 


 
 
 431 ; parson , 433 n . 


 Twineham [ Twienen , Twynem ] , Suss . , 305 , 310 , 329 , 342-344 , 355 ; manor , 330 , 346 


 Twitham , Kent , 162 


 Twyford , Bucks . , mill , 413 Twynch , Andrew , 241 


 Tybetot [ Tibetot ] , de , family , 164 ; Hen . , 193 ; Pain , 216 , 217 ; Rob . , 215 , 217 


 Tydeshale . See Tittleshall , Norf . Tyeis [ Tyeys ] , le , Alice , 237 ; Hawise , 236 ; Hen . , 236-237 


 
 
 S 


 
 
 Tyrel [ Tirel , Tyrell ] , family , 2 ; Alice , 80 ; Matilda , 80 ; Olive , 80 ; dame Olive , 80 ; Rog . , 79 , 94 ; Tho . , 80 Tyreserchs , de , Hen . , 52 Tyrne , de , Petronilla , 394 Tyvill , de , family , 164 , 165 , 180 , 265 ; Cecily , 180 ; Elen . , 181 ; Hen . , 265 ; Hugh , 181 ; Jo . , 181 ; Matilda , 180 ; Ralph , 180-181 , 265 ; Ric . , 180 181 ; Rob . , 180 


 See also Teyl 


 
 
 UFFORD , de , Cecily , 430 ; Margt . , 384 ; Margery , 173 ; Rob . , 173 , 179 , 373 , 384 , 430 Ugford , Wilts . , 25 


 Ulbert ( of West Hanningfield , Essex ) , 


 
 
 400 


 Ulchetel the moneyer , 360 Ulcombe , Kent , 294 


 Ulf brother of Offord , 311 Ulfeole , 312 


 Ulketell , chaplain , 152 


 Ulmar , of Eaton Socon , Beds . , 258 Ulp , ' Burnham , Norf . , 126 Ulster , countess - Emeline , 36 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 earls - Ric . de Burgh , 358 ; Will . de Burgh , 359 


 Ulveva , wife of Phin the Dane , 220 Upton , de , Matilda , 92 


 Upton in Walsham hund . , manor , 


 435 


 
 
 Upwaltham , Suss . , 2 , 90 Uvedale , de , John , 123 


 
 
 VABADUN , de , Ric . , 23 Vache , de la , Sir Ric . , 401 Vachery , La , Surr . , 357 , 359 ; manor , 357-358 


 
 
 Valence , de , Aymer , 92 , 108-110 , 205 , 


 279 , 307 , 320 , 326 , 329-330 , 333 , 338 , 344 , 346 , 367 , 375 , 382 , 384 , 388 , 392 , 395 , 399-402 , 405-406 , 408-410 , 412-414 , 424 , 427 , 430 , 433-437 , 443 ; Joan , 106 ; Mary , 402 , 412 , 443 ; Nich . , 92 ; Will . , 106 , 108 , 145 , 171 , 218 , 274 , 279 , 365 


 
 
 See Pembroke Valery , de , Ric . , 96 


 Valle Pironis , de , Eustace , 74 , 75 ; Mary , 74 , 75 


 Vallibus , de , Hugh , 106 ; Rob . , 193 , 197 , 211 


 See Vaux 


 
 
 Valoignes [ Valeines ] , de , family , 2 , 3 , 120-121 , 160 , 196 , 296 , 393 ; Agnes , 393 ; Alan , 221 ; Albreda , 393 ; Alice , 361 ; Cecily , 430 ; Chris tiana , 121 , 401 ; Geoff . , 393 ; Gundreda , 120 , 393 ; Gunnora , 121 ; Hamon , 160 ; Hawise , 393 ; Isabel , 121 , 196 , 428 ; Jo . , 393 ; Joan , 145 ; Lora , 121 ; Mabel , 430 ; Pet . , 120 , 125 , 145 , 199 , 294 , 393 , 402 ; Phil . , 393 ; Rob . , 160 , 196 , 393–394 , 403 , 430 ; Rog . , 145 , 393 , 402-403 ; Rohese , 393 ; Rose , 430 ; Sibil , 18 ; Tho . , 428 , 430 ; Walter , 196 , 393 ; Waresius , 196 ; Will . , 142 , 393 


 
 
 barony , 120-121 , 294 , 395 ; fee , 107 , 165 , 403 ; honor , 168 , 294 , 404 Vancy , de . See Wauncy Vange , Essex , 220 , 223 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 525] ===
 
 
 INDEX 509 


 
 
 Vanne , Kent , 164 , 198 


 by Wye , Kent , 198 in Crundale , Kent , 198 , 199 Varney , de , Florence , 241 Varnoun , de , Baldwin , 226 ; Mar gery , 226 


 See Vernon 


 
 
 Vasselier [ Vesseler ] , le , Will . , 26 , 52 


 Vassylyr , John le , 52 Vaudreuil , Le ( Eure ) , 67 Vautort , de , Margery , 226 ; Ric . , 226 ; Rob . , 226 ; Tho . , 226 Vaux [ Vaus ] , de , dame Clementia , 150 ; Jo . , 119 , 373 , 392 ; Petron illa , 120 ; Rob . ( of Gilsland ) , 441 ; Sir Rog . , 150 ; Will . , 137 See Vallibus , de Vavassour , le , Rob . , 172 Veltre [ Valtre , Veautre , Veltrier , Veutre ] , le , family , 3 ; John , 126 ; Margery , 126 ; Matilda , 126 ; Will . , 5 , 109 , 118 , 125-126 , 390 Venour , le , John , 244 Venuz , de , Rob . , 356 Ver [ Vere ] , de , Alice , 407 ; earl Aubrey , 361 , 364 ; Denise , 108 , 266 ; Eleanor , 205 ; Geoff . , 155 , 218 , 220 ; Hugh , 108-109 , 266 ; Rob . , 205 ; Rohaise , 249 Verdun [ Verdon , Verdoun ] , de , dame Annora , 320 ; Jo . , 128 ; lady Maud , 47 ; Ralph , 320 ; Walter , sheriff , 320 


 
 
 Verli [ Verlei , Verley , Verly , Verluy , Virluy , Virly , Wirly ] , de , family , 3 , 325 ; Adam , 140-141 ; Sir Adam , 140 ; Alex . , 140 ; Alice , 140 ; Cecily , 140-141 ; Hugh , 139 , 140 ; Juliana , 141 ; Phil . , 140–141 , 325– 326 , 398-399 ; Ralph , 139 , 140 ; Rob . , 140 , 152 , 326 ; Rog . , 7 , 139 , 140 , 160 


 
 
 Vermandois , de , Beatrix , 421 


 Hugh le Magne , count of , 299 Verneuil , constables of , 250 Vernon , de , Cecily , 25 ; Ric . , 25 See Varnoun 


 Vescy , de , John , 262 


 Veteri Aula , de , Isabel , 121 Veteri Ponte , de , Idonea , 358 ; Isabel , 358 


 Viene [ Vienne , Vyane , Vyne ] , de , family , I ; Luke , 53 ; Mary , 53 ; Pet . , 54 Vieuxpont , de , Alice , 254 , 267 ; Hugh , 251 , 261 , 267 


 Vilers [ Viliers ] , de , family , 1 , 52-54 ; A. , 52 ; Alan , 52-53 ; Emma , 52 ; Hamon , 167 ; Jo . , 53 ; Mary , 54 n .; Nich . , 53-54 ; Pain , 7 , 52-53 ; Ric . , 53 ; Rob . , 52-54 , 54 n . , 82-83 ; Rog . , 167 ; Tho . , 52-53 ; Walter , 38 ; Will . , 52-53 


 
 
 Vimeu , dioc . of Amiens , 277 , 278 n . Vivonia , de , Hugh , 247 ; Joan , 248 


 Vyane , de . See Viene Vyvian , Margt . , 192 


 
 
 WAARD , Dionisia , 227 ; Walkelin , 62 , 227 


 Wacherlai , de , Will . , 279 Wachesham [ Wacstonesham , Wax tonesham , Wechesham , Wetes ham ] , de , family , 3 ; Amice , 128 ; Gerard , 127-129 , 217 , 279 ; Giles , 128 , 129 , 279 ; Isabel , 128 ; Joan , 128 ; Nich . , 434 ; Osbert , 127–128 ; Reiner , 434-435 ; Ric . , 127 Wachet , Will . , 407 Wadard ( of Somerton , Oxon . ) , 234 ( of South Newington , Oxon . ) , 


 
 
 227 Waddon , Bucks . , manor , 13 , 14 Wade , de la , family , 2 ; Hen . , 93 ; Juliana , 93-94 ; Ric . , 10 Wade Court , Hants . , 2 , 93-94 Wade , La , Hants . , 94 Wadington , de , Will . , 336 Wahull , de , Jo . , 172 ; Rohaise , 172 ; Sim . , 243 ; Walter , 243 Wainford , Suff . , 124 Waithe , Lincs . , 284 


 Wake , Baldwin , 188 , 283 , 399 ; Joan , 399 


 fee , 406 


 
 
 Wakefield , Yorks . , 306 , 308 , 417 ; church , 312 ; manor , 307 Wakerley , N'hants . , 165 , 279-280 , 289 ; manor , 168 Walberswick , Suff . , 317 Walberton , Suss . , 55 , 58 , 83 ; church , 56 ; manor , 57-59 Walbrook , St. Steph . , church , 167 Walcheline , archdeacon of Suffolk , 193 , 197 


 Walcher of Layham , Suff . , 177 Walcot , Oxon . , 242 


 Walden , Rog . , clerk , 206 


 Walden , Essex , 167 


 
 
 Walden , abbey , 211 , 214 , 217 , 407 abbots - 187 , 297 , 408 ; Gilb . , 


 218 


 
 
 priory , 186 , 318 , 320 ; prior Reg . , 407 Walderslade , Kent , manor , 185 Walderton [ ' Wadrinton ' ] , Suss . , 32 , 75 ; manor , 99 Waldingfield , Suff . , manor , 215 , 366 Little , Suff . , 364-367 ; manor , 


 
 
 366 


 Waldingham , Surr . , manor , 350 Waldron , Suss . , church , 313 Walecote , de , Steph . , 242 Waleran ( of Ringstead , Norf . ) , 117 Waleran , John , nephew of , 146 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 526] ===
 
 
 510 INDEX 


 
 
 Walerand [ Waleraund ] , Rob . , 149 , 270 , 340 


 Wales , army , 8 , 28 , 57 , 60 , 79 , 80 , 104 ; prince , 179 Walesham , de , Rog . , 117 Waleys [ Waleis , Walensis ] , Augustine , 185 ; Dionisia , Godfrey , 29 ; Will . , 231 Walkefare , Jo . , 404 ; Margt . , 404 ; Margery , 405 ; Rob . , 404-405 ; Sir Rob . , 404 


 
 
 Walkelin , seneschal , 286 Walkern , Herts . , 167 


 Wall ( in Bradwell - on - Sea ) , Essex , 206 


 Wallbury , Essex , 274 


 Walle , La , in Hallingbury , Essex , 


 273 , 274 


 
 
 Wallingford , 234 


 castle , 73 , 203 , 204 ; constable , 73 , 387 ; fee , 170 , 227 , 229 , 236 ; honor , 62-63 , 227-228 , 232 , 234 236 , 238 , 372 , 374 , 423 ; lady of , 234 ; monastery , 236 ; prior , 260 


 
 
 Walmire , Yorks . , 276 Walpole , de , Hen . , 374 ; Isabel , 429 Walpole , 309 


 Walpole , Norf . , 154 


 Walsham , de , Gilb . , 328 


 Walsham , Norf . , lady of , 124 


 Suff . , 109 Walsingham , de , 


 Barthol . , 430 ; Ric . , 430 ; Steph . , 430 Walsingham , Norf . , 55 


 
 
 le , 29 ; 


 
 
 priory , 125 , 138 ; canon , 424 ; prior , 127 Walter , Hubert , 28 , 29 , 135 , 362 ; Theobald , 28 , 113 , 142 Walter , brother of Wimar the sewer , 396 


 
 
 ( of Treyford , Suss . ) , 52 ( of ' Wildecumb ' ) , 310 Waltervill , de , Jordan , 356 Waltham , Great , Essex , 167 , 252 


 
 
 15 


 
 
 deacon , 220 


 ( of Burnham Thorpe , Norf . ) , 


 
 
 389 


 ( of Leaden Roding , Essex ) , 353 ( of Pangdean , Suss . ) , 327 ( of Sunworth in Buriton , Hants . ) , 54 


 
 
 Lincs . , 68 , 423 


 Suss . , 49 


 Up , Suss . , 47 , 52 , 90 


 
 
 Little , Essex , 7 , 101 ; manor , 


 
 
 West , Norf . , 309 Suss . , 25 , 43 , 74 Yorks . , 297 , 419-420 


 
 
 Walton , de , Hawise , 73 ; Will . , 437 Walton , East , Norf . , 392 


 
 
 Wancy [ Wanceio ] , de . See Wauncy Wangford , Suff . , 336 


 
 
 Wanneworth , Suss . , 233 Wanningore , free manor , 337 Norf . , 338 


 Suss . , 334 ; manor , 336 Wantley , Suss . , 352 Wapsbourne ( Sheffield ) , watercourse , 335 


 
 
 chapel , 337 ; 


 
 
 Norf . , 338 


 ( in Fletching ) , Suss . , Suss . , 336 ; manor , 336-337 Warberton [ Warbelton , Warblington , Warblinton , Warburton , Werbin ton ] , de , family , 376 ; Tho . , 377-378 ; Will . , 376-378 Warbleton , Suss . , 31 , 376 Warblington , Hants . , 96 , 349 , 350 ; 


 parson of , 97 


 Wardon , abbey , 250 , 264 


 abbots - 255 , 405 ; Geoff . , 255 ; Pain , 266 


 church , 405 ; fee , 267 , 405 ; honor , 209 


 Wardour Castle , 99 Warenne , de , family , 296 , 341 ; Ada or Adeline , 416 ; Alice , 143 , 307 , 323-324 ; Beatrice , 323 ; Edith , 420 ; lady Ela , 437 ; Emma , 372 ; Florentin , 161 ; Frederic , 298 ; Geoff . , 143 ; Gundreda , 34 , 120 , 298 , 308-309 , 393 ; Isabel , 285 , 301 ; Joan , 307 ; John , 76 , 143 , 305 , 307 , 319 , 320 , 329 , 333 , 341-342 , 354 , 359 , 369 , 373 , 377 , 394-395 , 399 , 409-410 , 414-415 , 420 , 433 , 435 , 441 ; Sir Jo . , 325 ; Matilda , 307 , 341 ; Milisent , 323 ; Phil . , 389 ; Rainald [ Raynold ] , 299-301 , 311 , 312 ; Ralph , 299-301 , 311 ; Ranulf [ Randulf ] , 56 , 353 , 371–372 ; Reg . , 113 , 300-302 , 309 , 317 , 323-325 , 327 , 331 , 334 , 345 , 394 , 424 , 442 ; Ric . , 300 , 373 ; Tho . , 307 ; Will . , 56 , 84 , 90 , 286 , 297–300 , 303–304 , 308 , 313-315 , 318 , 322-325 , 327 , 331 , 334 , 339 , 342-343 , 345 , 347 , 353 , 355 , 359 , 370-373 , 376 , 378-382 , 384 n . , 385 , 389 , 393-395 , 398 , 400 , 402 , 405-406 , 408-410 , 416 , 418-420 , 424-425 , 428 , 431 , 433-434 , 437-438 , 442-443 


 countesses - 343 , 371 , 406 , 409 , 410 ; Isabel , 299-302 , 304 , 332 , 434 ; Matilda , 336 , 341 , 381 , 383 , 391 , 401 , 406 , 412 , 417 , 424 


 
 
 earls - 98 , 146 , 151–152 , 171 , 203 , 297-298 , 321 , 323 , 326 , 329 , 330 , 333 , 335-337 , 341 , 343-346 , 349 , 350 , 354 , 356-358 , 360 , 366-368 , 370-371 , 373 , 377-379 , 382 n . , 383-384 , 387-388 , 390 , 394– 397 , 399 , 401 , 403-404 , 406–413 , 415 , 418 , 420 , 423 , 425 , 427-428 , 430 , 432-436 , 441 , 443 ; Hamelin , 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 527] ===
 
 
 INDEX 511 


 
 
 73 , 302 , 304 , 327 , 328 , 332 , 343 , 345 , 381 , 383 , 385 , 417 , 418 n . , 434 , 437 ; John , 306 , 378 , 400 , 409 , 410 , 415 , 418 , 420 ; Will . , 6 , 114 , 285 , 299-301 , 306 , 315 , 319 , 324 , 327 , 331 , 333-334 , 336 , 341 , 347 , 353 , 355 , 370 , 371 , 373 , 377 , 386 , 389 , 391 , 396 , 405 , 408 , 416-417 , 419 , 420 , 424 , 426 , 432 , 436 , 439 Warenne , earls of Surrey , 297. See Surrey 


 
 
 fee , 56 , 69 , 74 , 85 , 114 , 115 , 125-126 , 130 , 141 , 145 , 152-153 , 173 , 272 , 328 ; honor , 296-443 


 ' Warewyk , ' fee , 308 n . 


 Warham , Norf . , 125-127 


 Warin , Hugh , 73 


 Warin , chamberlain , 254 ; Matilda , 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 wife , 254 


 
 
 49 


 
 
 K 


 
 
 sheriff , 310 , 313 , 370 ( of Allington , Suss . ) , 314 


 ( of Angmering , Suss . ) , 70 ( of Bilsham , in Yapton , Suss . ) , 


 
 
 35 


 Warley , Yorks . , 441 


 
 
 ( of Ditchling , Suss . ) , 370 ( of Itchenor , Suss . ) , 55 


 ( of Nutbourne by Pulborough ) , 


 
 
 Warmington , N’hants . , 411 


 Warminster , Wilts . , 204 


 Warmsworth , Yorks . , 416 , 417 


 Warnford , Hants . , 58 


 Warningcamp , Suss . , 2 , 48 , 49 , 91–93 ; 


 manor , 49 


 Warre [ Warr ] , la , family , 296 ; Clarice , 354 ; Joan , 280 , 324 ; Jo . , 324 , 327 , 354 ; Sir Jo . , 280 ; Olimpias , 354 ; Rog . , 354 ; Sir Rog . , 354 Warwick , countesses - 185 ; Alice , 369 ; Matilda de Beauchamp , 358 earls - 18 , 63 , 243 ; Guy de 


 
 
 Beauchamp , 244 


 
 
 honor , 242 Washington , 351 


 Wasneval , de , Rob . , 315 


 Wast , de , Nigel , 155 


 Wateley , Essex , 193 Waterbeach , minoresses of , 163 Waterden , Norf . , 130 , 322 , 325 , 326 Wateringbury , Kent , manor , 185 Waterperry , Agnes of , III ; Hen . , III ; Ric . , III See Belfou 


 
 
 Waterperry , Oxon . , manor , 113 Watevill [ Watevile , Wattevill , Whatevill ] , de , family , 2 , 296 ; Agnes , 89 ; Hamon , 88 ; Matilda , 89 ; Pet . , 89 ; Rob . , 88-89 ; Sibyl , 217 ; Will . , 22 , 217 , 299 , 322 , 339 , 359 , 378 Wattehose , Rog . , 292 Watteville on the Seine , 339 


 
 
 Wattisham [ Wechesham ' ] , Suff . , 128 ; manor , 128-129 Watton , Herts . , 349 ; manor , 350 Wauncy [ Wanceio , Wanci , Wancy , Waunci ] , de , family , 2 , 69 , 70 , 296 , 306 ; Alice , 381 ; Berta , 381 ; Felicia , 69 , 162 ; Hugh , 381 ; Lucy , 80 ; Nich . , 69 , 70 , 162 , 381 Osbern , 381 ; Ralph , 306 , 381 Sir Ralph , 381 ; Rog . , 80 , 381 ; Walter , 381 ; Will . , 25 , 80 , 373-374 , 381-382 , 382 n . ; Sir Will . , 381-382 Wautham , de , Reg . , 243 


 Wauton , de , Rob . , 253-255 ; Sarra , 


 
 
 253-254 


 Waveney , 429 


 Waverley , abbey , 213 , 345 Wavre [ Waure , Wavere ] , de , Rob . , 320 ; Sim . , II , 26 ; Will . , 20 Waylaund . See Weyland Wealde , atte , John , 163 ; Sim . , 163 Weasenham , Norf . , 118 , 303 , 395–397 , 399 ; church , 398 


 
 
 Thorp , Norf . , church , 396 , 398 Weathersfield , Essex , 275 


 Weeley , Essex , 165 , 275 ; manor , 166 , 192 


 Weeting , Norf . , 334-338 ; 


 church , 334 , 337-338 ; manor , 336-337 Welborne , Norf . , 152 , 297 , 338 , 


 428-430 


 
 
 Welford , N'hants , 188 Welhorne , de , Rob . , 116 Well , fisheries , 309 Welland , fishery , 284 Welle , de , Adam , 205 ; Jo . , 205 ; Lora , 212 ; Matilda , 205 ; Rob . , 


 212 


 
 
 Welleboef , de , Hugh , 250 Welles , de , dame Matilda , 161 Wellingham , Norf . , 397 Wellingore , Lincs . , 293 Wellow , Hants . , 355 , 358 Wells , Kent , manor , 162 Welnetham [ Whelnetham ] , Suff . , 360 Welton , de , Rog . , 243 Wendling , de , Will . , 398 Wendling , Norf . , 396 , 398–399 


 abbots - 398 , 425 ; Nich . , 443 Wendover , Bucks . , 422 ; manor , 421 Weng , Bucks . See Wing Wenham , Essex , 211 , 212 


 
 
 Suff . , 65 , 67 , 210 Wenlock , prior of , 318 Weobley , Herefs . , 105 Wepham , Suss . , 2 , 99-100 ; fee , 9 ; manor , 49 


 
 
 ' Weplesburn . ' See Wapsbourne Weppehurst , Suss . , sheepfold , 51 Weps , le , Jo . , 358 ; Rog . , 358 ; Walter , 357-358 


 Wereham , Norf . , 319 , 320 , 396 Werling , Suff . , 326 


 Werpesburn , Suss . , 305 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 528] ===
 
 
 512 INDEX 


 
 
 Wesneval , de , Rob . , 300 Westacre , prior of , 115 , 325 , 425 ; priory , 112 Westbourne , 


 87 ; 


 Suss . , II , 72 , church , 19 ; manor , 15 , 68 Westbrok in Rolvenden , Kent , marsh , 


 159 ' Westburinton . ' 


 See 


 Boarhunt , 


 West , Hants . Westcote , N'hants . , 245 Westdene , de , Hen . , 87 Westerton , de , John , 59 Westgate , Kent , manor , 185 Westhale in Benacre , Suff . , 333 Westham , Suss . , 32 , 313 , 341 Westmeston , Suss . , 331 , 333 Westminster , 142 , 166 , 191 , 380 St. Peter's , 225 ; Ric . abbot , 184 


 
 
 &lt; 


 
 
 Westmull [ ' Westmulne ' ] , Deddington , Oxon . , 230 , 231 Weston , de , Cecily , 75 ; Hawise , 270-271 , 290 ; Jo . , 278 ; Ric . , 75 ; Rob . , 270-271 , 290 


 Weston , Herts . , 288 


 
 
 C 


 
 
 &gt; 


 
 
 Norf . , 436 


 Oxon . , 242 Suss . , 36 


 Colville , Cambs . , 297 , 301 , 405-406 , 437 


 Underwood , Bucks . , 244 


 Westout , St. Peter's and St. Mary's , churches , 311 


 West - thorpe . ' See Thorpe Holy Cross 


 West Tofts , Norf . , 132 


 Westune . ' See Whitchurch , Salop Westwick , Cambs . , 172 


 Westwood , Kent , 330 ; manor , 330 Wetherden , Suff . , church , 149 Wetherley , Cambs . , hund . , 230 Weyland [ Waylaund ] , de , Eliz . , 264 ; Joan , 150 ; Ric . , 150 ; Tho . , 363 , 435 ; Will . , 264 


 Weyvill , de . See Wivill Whatevill , de . See Watevill Whatfield , Suff . , 359–361 Wheatacre , Norf . , 401 ; manor , 433 Wherstead , Suff . , 129 


 See Thorington , Suff . Wherwell , abbess of , 368 Whitchurch , Oxon . , 227 , 229 , 230 , 232 


 
 
 in 


 
 
 ¿ 


 
 
 Salop , 296 , 371-375 , 398 White Colne , Essex , manor , 213 Whitefeld [ Witefeld , Wytefeld ] , de , Hen . , 243 ; Isabel , 22 ; Jo . , 244 ; Rob . , 243 ; Will . , 22 


 Whiteman , Sarra , 75 ; Will . , 75 


 
 
 Whitfield , Oxon . , 243 


 Whithors , ' vale of , 224 


 Whitlingham , Norf . , 438-439 ; manor , 


 440 , 441 


 Whitsonsett , Norf . , 326 


 
 
 Whorlton and Rudby , Yorks . , honor , 422 


 Wiard . See Widard Wibert , 375 


 
 
 ( of Hurstmonceaux ) , 376 Wiburcvill , de , Ralph , 301 Wicham [ Wrtham ] , de , Jordan , 224 ; 


 Ric . , 127 


 ' Wicham . ' See Wickham Wichelegh , de , Felicia , 158 ; Will . , 158 


 Wicken or Wyke Dyve , N'hants . , 62 


 
 
 Wickensands , Suss . , 296 , 368-369 Wickham , family , 296 Wickham , 421 


 
 
 &lt; 


 
 
 Kent , 106 ; church , 195 by Strood , Kent , 107 West , Kent , 190–192 , 322 Suff . , 373 


 Skeith , Suff . , 190 


 Suss . , 306 , 339 


 by Steyning , Suss . , 296 , 378 


 
 
 in Icklesham , Suss . , 379 


 near Hurstpierpoint , Suss . , 378 Wicklewood , Norf . , 322 , 325-326 Wickmere , Norf . , 299 


 Wickwar , Gloucs . , 354 


 Widard [ Wiard ] , of Brighton , Suss . , 


 310 , 379 


 Widelie . ' See Dornford , Oxon . Wiggenhall [ Wigenhale ] , 


 148-150 , 424-425 , 428 Wiggenholt , 39 


 Wight , Isle of , 380 ; lady of , 169 , 224 , 226 


 Wight , countesses - 176-177 , 


 179 , 192 , 197 , 236 , 241 , 247 ; Margt . , 349 ; Margt . de Rivers , 170 ; Margery de Rivers , 232 


 earls - 185 , 208 , 231-232 , 235 236 , 240-241 


 Wighton , Norf . , 102 , 125-127 Wigot , 90 


 Wikes , Gloucs . , manor , 105 Wikinton , 354 


 Wilbraham , Great , Cambs . , 172 , 173 ' Wilburgham . ' See Welborne , Norf . Wilby , Norf . , 3 , 132 , 144–145 , 365 Suff . , 429 


 Wilcote [ Wilscote ] , 


 Oxon . , 192 ; 


 
 
 379 


 
 
 f 


 
 
 manor , 191 


 Wildecumb , ' 310 


 Wilden , Beds . , 265 


 Wilhale , Oxon . , 234-237 ; 


 
 
 Norf . , 


 
 
 manor , 


 
 
 236 


 Wilkin . See Wylekyn Willavesham [ Willakesham , Willas ham , Wylasham , Wyllasham ] , de , family , 165 ; Lucy , 247 ; Matilda , 246 ; Ralph , 246 , 247 ; Rob . , 246 , 


 ' Willedon , ' Essex , 206 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 529] ===
 
 
 INDEX 513 


 
 
 Willey . See Weeley , Essex William , chamberlain , 425 


 26 


 
 
 chaplain of Stedham , Suss . , 


 
 
 clerk , II 


 clerk of Bumpstead , 401 ; Alice , wife , 401 


 clerk of Medlers , ' Suss . , 62 


 
 
 constable , 315 


 huntsman , 280 


 
 
 sewer , 141 warrener , 256 


 ( of Brettenham , Norf . ) , 146 ( of Foulden , Norf . ) , 393 ( of Halnaker , Suss . ) , 55 , 56 ( of Hilborough , Norf . ) , 382 ( of Hurstpierpoint ) , 331 ( of Littlehampton , Suss . ) , 89 ( of Lordington , Suss . ) , 41 ( of Middleton , Suss . ) , 52 ( of Singleton , Suss . ) , 87 ( of Strettington ) , 41 Willingham , 309 ; church , 312 Cambs . , 297 , 437 


 Suff . , 300 


 
 
 Willisham [ Wytlisham ] , Suff . , manor , 


 44I Willoughby 


 [ Wyleby , Wyluby ] , family , 417 ; Jo . , 417 ; Margt . , 417 ; Margery , 417 Wilton , de , Olimpiada , 236 Wilton , Norf . , 114 , 115 , 311 , 327 330 , 337 ; abbey , 25 ; abbess , 25 , 218 ; fishery , 114 ; manor , 329 Wimar , seneschal , 129 , 396 


 [ Guihomar , Wihomarc ] , sewer , 


 
 
 396 


 Wimbis , de , Geoff . , II Wimbotsham , Norf . , 297 , 425-427 Wimer , sheriff , 394 


 Wimer ( of Gressenhall , Norf . ) , 395 , 396 


 
 
 ( of South Acre , Norf . ) , 396 Wimpole , Cambs . , 207-209 , 388 ; church , 172 


 
 
 Wimundham . See Wymondham Wincestre [ Wincestria ] , de , Ailwin , 


 
 
 311 , 370 


 Winch , East , Norf . , 392 


 
 
 Winchelsea , 102 


 Winchester , 5 , 53 , 84 , 94 , 166 , 183 , 380 ; castle , 203 ; cathedral , 65 ; mills , 65 Winchester , bishops - 22 , 70-71 , 313 , 349 ; Godfrey , 71 , 331 ; Hen . , 214 , 300 ; Ric . , 347 ; Rog . , 5 ; Walkelin , 312 , 313 


 
 
 countess - Eleanor , 184 


 earls - 245 ; Hugh le Despen ser , 179 ; Saher , 142 , 354 , 416 Windesores [ Winlesores ] , de , Hugh , 


 
 
 136 ; Will . , 71 


 ' Windhull , ' Essex , 205 


 Windridge , nr . St. Albans , 156 


 
 
 Windsor , constablewick , 77 , 78 , 88 , 174 , 239 ; forest , 71 , 268 , 423 ; manor , 233 ; park , 165 New , 71 


 
 
 Winecote [ Wonnecote , Wynescote ] , de , family , 297 ; Jo . , 412 , 413 ; Sim . , 412 ; master Sim . , 412 ; Will . , 412 Winfarthing , Norf . , 102 , 106 ; manor , 105 ; park , 108 


 Wing , Bucks . , 171 , 297 , 414-415 ; church , 171 ; manor , 170 , 410 ; priory , 415 Wingeham , de , Pet . , 238 Wingfield , church , 438 Wingham , Kent , 185 Winkburn , Notts . , church , 84 


 Wint ' , de , Aveline , 17 ; Alan , 17 ; 


 Reg . , 17 


 
 
 Winterbourne , Suss . , church , 39 Winterburn , Gloucs . , 41 Winterburne , Wilts . , church , 37 Basset , Wilts . , church , 313 ; manor , 39 Wintereshull , Will . , 357 Winthelle , ' Essex , 202 


 de , Beatrice , 357 ; 


 Wirch [ de la Guerche , Gyrche ] , de la , Hawise , 99 Wirly , de . See Verli Wirlyngworth , de , Rob . , 325 Wiscard , Ric . , 267 ; Will . , 267 Wischard , Thurstan , 167 ; Will . , 255 , 267 


 Wisham . See Wysham Wistendena , 309 , 310 


 Wiston , Suss . , manor , 22 , 23 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 Suff . , 330 


 Witefeld . See Whitfield 


 
 
 Witeweie , de , Will . , 6 Witham , Essex , 167 , 285 Withdean , Suss . , 309-311 , 336 ' Withele . ' See Woodley , Oxon . Withersfield , Suff . , 396 , 398 ; manor , 


 398-399 


 
 
 ―― 


 
 
 C 


 
 
 Witingelega , ' Hants . , forest , 70 , 71 Witteden , ' Suss . , 379 Wittering , East , Suss . , 24 Witton , de , John , 120 


 Witton , Norf . , church , 437 Wivelsfield , Suss . , 324 , 326 , 383 Wiveton , Norf . , 370 , 373 , 375 Wivill [ Weyvill , Widevill , Wyauvill , Wyavill , Wyvil ] , de , family , 296 , 379-380 ; Emma , 379 ; Gode hude , 379 ; Hugh , 379 , 380 ; Jo . , 380 ; Margery , 380 ; Ric . , 306 , 379 , 380 ; Rob . , 379 ; Tho . , 380 ; Walter , 380 ; Will . , 379 , 380 


 
 
 Wix , Essex , 366 


 Wlbert ( of Kenningtons , Essex ) , 400 Wlenche [ mere ] . ' See Linchmere , 


 
 
 f 


 
 
 Suss . 


 Wlnod , clothier , 312 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 530] ===
 
 
 514 INDEX 


 
 
 Wlterton , de . 


 See Wolterton 


 Wltreton . See Walton , de 


 Woburn , abbey , 156 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 Wockele ' [ Wokelee ] , Kent , 158 Wodeham , de , Sir Rob . , 177 ; Walter , 


 
 
 177 


 Wogham , Suss . , 315 


 Woking , Middle , Surr . , 55 Wolbidinges , Suss . , 26 Wold [ ' Inferiori Waldia ' ] , N'hants . ( ? ) , 


 
 
 169 


 Wolderton , Suss . , 40 Wolterton [ Wulterton ] , de , family , 297 ; Christiana , 437 ; Margery , 437 ; Rog . , 437-438 ; Walter , 437 ; Will . , 437 


 Wolterton , Norf . , 150 , 297 , 403 , 437 Wolton , de , John , 198 , 199 Wolwin , reeve of Bleachington , 345 Wonnecote . See Winecote Woodbridge , Suff . , manor , prior , 439 ; priory , 439 Woodcote , Salop , manor , 4 Suss . , 58 , 60 , 61 ; manor , 59 Wood Dalling , Norf . , 320 , 394 , 436 


 Woodhall [ Wodehall ] , in Arkesden , Essex , 187 ; manor , 186 


 Le , in Rattlesden , Suff . , manor , 337 , 338 


 Woodham Mortimer , Essex , 386 Walter , Essex , 365 Woodley , Oxon . , 237 , 241 


 Wood Norton , Norf . , manor , 436 Wood Rising , 313 


 Woods Court [ Wode ] in Badlesmere , 


 
 
 Kent , 194 


 Woodstock , Edm . of , 285 Woodton , Norf . , 2 , 121-123 Woolavington , Suss . , 92 Woolbeding , Suss . , 36 , 92 Wooldale , Yorks . , 441 Woolston , Essex , manor , 342 Wooton , 310 


 Wootton , Norf . , 136 , 154 


 
 
 141 


 
 
 € 


 
 
 North , Norf . , 147 , 148 ; church , 


 South , Norf . , 3 , 141-144 , 147 , 


 
 
 148 


 
 
 Oxon . , 237 


 Suss . , 345 


 Worcester , 353 


 &gt; 


 
 
 439 ; 


 
 
 Wordeseia , Suff . , 361 


 Worksop , canons of , 413 Worlington , Suff . , manor , 150 Wormegay [ Wurmegai ] , de , Alice , 323 ; Will . , 317 , 323 


 barony , 367 ; fee , 392 ; honor , 325-327 , 341 , 425 Wormegay , Norf . , 141 , 297 , 302 , 317 , 318 , 323 , 324 , 341 , 385 , 394 , 423 , 442 manor , 325 Wormingford , Essex , 330 ; manor , 


 330 


 
 
 Worth , Suss . , 59 , 334 , 338 , 357 , 383 ; church , 337 ; manor , 307 , 336 Wilts . , 164 , 224 


 
 
 Wortham , Suff . , 127-128 ; manor , 128 Worthy , Hants . , 362 


 Wothorpe by Stamford , Northants . , nuns of , 284 


 Woughton on the Green , Bucks . , 


 140 


 
 
 Wouneworth [ Woneworth ] , in Graff ham , Suss . , 63 ; manor , 64 Woutham , de , Gilb . , 319 Wramplingham , Norf . , 2 , 8 , 102-110 Wratling , Essex , 211 Wratting , Cambs . , 322 Wreningham , Norf . , 336 


 Wrentham , Suff . , 296 , 322 , 327-331 , 


 
 
 332 , 333 


 Writeler [ Wiritle ] , Will . , 1I Writtle , Essex , 188 ; manor , 15 Wroxham , Norf . , 318 


 Wroxton , Oxon . , 316 ; priory , 320 Wrythorpe . ' Wothorpe , 


 See 


 N'hants . 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 Wuda , ' Kent , 194 


 Wudehus , Suss . , manor , 99 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 Wulfric ( of Groton , Suff . ) , 360 


 Wulnod ( of Pincheham ' ) , 310 


 
 
 Wurmegai . See Wormegay See Wootton , 


 Wutton . ' 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 South , 


 Norf . 


 Wyboston [ Wybaudeston ] , Beds . , 155 , 165 , 248 , 255-256 , 264-265 Wycham . ' See Wickham Wychcenden , ' Suss . , 383 


 Wyche , La , in Binsted , Hants . , 41 Wychwood , Oxon . , 240 , 242-243 Wyka , ' Gloucs . , 107 


 Wyke , La , Suss . , 2 , 89 , 349 , 369 Wyke Dyve , N'hants . , manor , 63 , 64 Wyken [ ' Wylden ' ] , Essex , 206 Wykes , de , Geoff . , 69 


 Wykes , Essex , Idonea prioress of , 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 f 


 
 
 ( 


 
 
 1 


 
 
 175 


 Wykes , Lincs . , manor , 105 


 Wylasham [ Wyllasham ] . See Wil lavesham 


 
 
 - 


 
 
 Wylekyn , Ralph , 373 ; Rob . , 373 Wyluby . See Willoughby Wymer . See Wimer Wymondham , Norf . , 3 , 8 , 13 , 128 , 130 , 147-148 


 
 
 abbey , 104 , 106 , 140-141 ; cell of SS . Mary and Alban , 5 ; church , 6 ; manor , 6 , 14 , 123 , 154 ; monks , 6 , 7 , 12 , 125 , 129 , 134-135 ; priory , 12 , 129 , 138 , 140 , 145 , 147-148 , 153-154 


 
 
 priors - 139 , 148 ; Jo . , 138 ; Will . , 131 Wymondley , Little , Kent , 293 Wyndlesores [ Wyndesores ] , de , Gode hold , 195,196 ; Hugh , 136 , 195–196 ; Ralph , 209 ; Walter , 136 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 531] ===
 
 
 INDEX 515 


 
 
 Wynescote . See Winecote 


 Wyntring , ' Kent , 160 , 161 Wysham , de , family , 296 ; Hawise , 330 , 378-379 ; Jo . , 330 , 378-379 ; Sir Jo . , 379 


 Wytefeld , de . See Whitefeld Wyvill , de . See Wivill 


 
 
 " 


 
 
 YAPTON , Suss . , 20 , 23 , 36 , 49 


 Yardley , Essex , 176 


 Yarmouth , 116 , 436 ; fair , 135 , 176 , 


 426 


 
 
 Yedingham , Yorks . , 355 , 356 


 Yenge Margaret . ' See Margaret ting , Essex 


 Yen Hall , in West Wickham , Cambs . , 302 , 322 , 326 ; manor , 327 Yeldham , Essex , 310 , 371 Yelverton , Norf . , 138 , 152 , 430 Yeoman , king's , 117 Yeverington , Suss . , 


 354 


 
 
 • 


 
 
 Yhill , de , Walter , 34 See L'Isle , de Yllesham , ' Suss . , 65 Ynthrop , Suss . , 59 York , 19 , 70 , 266 


 archbps . - 231 , 241 ; Hen . , 416 ; Rog . , 84 ; Walter de Gray , 240 sheriff of , 365 treasurer of , 33 


 Young , Ric . the , 208 Yoxford , Suff . , 428 , 429 


 
 
 ZOUCHE [ Sousche , Zousche , Zuche ] , la , family , 1 , 35 , 36 , 165 ; Adelisia [ Adelid ] , 35 ; Alan , 20 , 35 , 36 , 97 , 245 , 246 ; Alice , 369 ; Aymer , 36 ; Ela , 36 ; Ellen , 36 , 245 ; Geoff . , 35 ; Ives , 262 ; Margery , 321 ; Rog . , 35 , 36 ; Will . , 20 , 34 , 36 , 54 , 91 , 92 , 187 , 205 , 262 , 369 


 
 
 Printed in England at THE BALLANTYNE PRESS by SPOTTISWOODE , BALLANTYNE & Co. LTD . Colchester , London & Eton 


 
 
 $ 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 532] ===
 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 533] ===
 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 534] ===
 
 
 A 


 
 
 1 


 
 
 } 


 
 
 1 


 AHH 


 
 
 A 


 
 
 Sutt 


 
 
 CLA 


 
 
 1 


 
 
 Į 


 
 
 THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 


 GRADUATE LIBRARY 


 
 
 JUN 3 1976 


 
 
 ช่ 


 
 
 SEP 15 1975 NOV 22 1134 


 OCT 11 


 
 
 2 . 


 
 
 Nier 


 
 
 UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 


 
 
 3 9015 03299 2151 


 
 
 0 : 


 
 
 JUN 1 1978 MPRO 1918 


 
 
 DATE DUE 


 
 
 FEB 22 1982 


 
 
 MAUB 2 98983 


 
 
 KROFONA n pey - re 


 
 
 f 


 
 
 1 


 
 
 
 
 AANMENEASCA DONASISINFEKSI ARABEOKSISTALAUKORRARA 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 535] ===
 
 
 
 
 } 


 
 
 1 


 
 
 ins 


 
 
 * * * * * 


 
 
 } 


 
 
 } 


 
 
 ! 


 
 
 } 


 
 
 } 


 } 


 
 
 BEL SALVANDEN PLAZA 


 
 
 DO NOT REMOVE 


 OR MUTILATE CARD 


 
 
 - BSICAL RIS 17 SANUL TORKAY , 


 
 
 1 


 
 
 J 


 
 

=== [HathiTrust seq 536] ===
 
 
 
 