(^ssaffiyi^ 


\mi\ 


m 


■f 


Trra 

! 

i 

■ 

4. 

1 

^ 

HANDUOLND 
AT  THE 


VXINIiRSITV  OF 
TORONTO  PRESS 


<^^^  f 


This  edition,  published  by  arrangement  with 
Messrs.  Archibald  Constable  and  Com- 
pany, Limited,  is  strictly  limited  to  650 
copies  for  Great  Britain  and  America,  of 
which  only  600  sets  are  for  sale,  and  are 
numbered  i  to  600. 


No. 


7.5b. 


I 

i 


THE    PASTON    LETTERS 

A.D.    1422-1509 


THE 

PASTON  LETTERS 

A.D.     I422-I509 

NEW    COMPLETE    LIBRARY     EDITION 

EDITED  WITH  NOTES  AND  AN  INTRODUCTION 

BY 

JAMES    GAIRDNER 

OF   THE   PUBLIC    RECORD   OFFICE 


VOLUmE    V 


LONDON  2  EXETER 

CHATTO   &,WINDUS      ^     JAMES   G.   COMMIN 

1904 


24V 

1/  £• 


Edinburgh  :  T.  and  A.  Constaih.e,  Printers  to  His  Majesty 


< 


y 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Rdward  IV 
695 

WILLIAM  EBESHAM  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

T'o  my  moost  worshupfull  maister^  Sir  John  Paston^ 

Knyght. 

MY  moost  woorshupfull  and  moost  special!  maister,  with  i469(?) 
all  my  servyce  moost  lowly  I  recomande  unto  your 
—  gode  maistirship,  besechyng  you  most  tendirly  to  see 

me  sumwhat  rewardid  for  my  labour  in  the  Grete  Booke^ 
which  I  wright  unto  your  seide  gode  maistirship.  I  have 
often  tymes  writyn  to  Pampyng  accordyng  to  your  desire,  to 
enforme  you  hou  I  have  labourd  in  wrytyngs  for  you  ;  and 
I  see  wele  he  speke  not  to  your  maistership  of  hit.  And  God 
knowith  I  ly  in  seint  warye  \janctuary']  at  grete  costs,  and 
amongs  right  unresonable  askers.  I  movid  this  mater  to  Sir 
Thomas  ^  late,  and  he  tolde  me  he  wolde  move  your  maistir- 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  lo.]  By  the  date  of  one  item  in  the  account  subjoined 
to  this  letter  it  must  have  been  written  after  the  year  1468,  probably  in  the  year 
following. 

2  This  '  great  book '  has  been  identified,  on  evidence  which  at  first  sight  seems 
conclusive,  with  MS.  285  in  the  Lansdowne  library  in  the  British  Museum.  But 
probably  this  latter  is  only  another  transcript  by  Ebesham  of  a  very  similar  volume. 
See  Account  of  this  MS.  in  '  Sailing  Directions  for  the  Circumnavigation  of  England,' 
published  by  the  Hakluyt  Society  in  1889. 

3  Sir  Thomas  Lewis,  a  priest. 

VOL.  v. A  I 


THE   PASTON   LETTERS 

i469(?)  ship  therein,  which  Sir  Thomas  desirid  me  to  remembir  wele 
what  I  have  had  in  money  at  soondry  tymes  of  hym.^ 

And  in  especiall  I  beseche  you  to  sende  me  for  almes  con 
of  your  olde  gownes,  which  will  countirvale  much  of  the 
premysses  I  wote  wele  ;  and  I  shall  be  yours  while  I  lyve,  and 
at  your  comandement ;  I  have  grete  myst  of  it,  God  knows, 
whom  I  beseche  preserve  you  from  all  adversite.  I  am 
sumwhat  acqueyntid  with  it.     Your  verry  man, 

W,  Ebsham. 

Folowyng  apperith,  parcelly,  dyvers  and  soondry  maner  of 
writyngs,  which  I  William  Ebesham  have  wreetyn  for  my  gode 
and  woorshupfull  maistir.  Sir  John  Paston,  and  what  money  I 
have  resceyvid,  and  what  is  unpaide. 

First,  I  did  write  to  his 
maistership  a  litill  booke  of 
Pheesyk,  for  which  I  had  paide 
by  Sir  Thomas  Leevys^  in 
Westminster yixd. 

Item,  I  had  for  the  wrytyng 
of  half  the  prevy  scale  of  Pam- 
pyng viij^. 

Item,  for  the  wrytynge  of 
the  seid  hole  prevy  seale  of  Sir 
Thomas ij^. 

Item,  I  wrote  viij.  of  the 
Witnessis  in  parchement,  but 
aftir  xiiij'^'  a  peece,  for  which  I 
was  paide  of  Sir  Thomas      .     .  xj. 

Item,  while  myseide  maister 
was  over  the  see  in  Midsomer- 
terme 

Calle  sett  me  a  warke  to 
wryte  two  tymes  the  prevy  seale 

1  Here  (according  to  Fenn)  follows  the  account  as  stated  more  at  large  in  the 
subjoined  Bill. 

2  Fenn's  modern  transcript  reads  Lewis.     Is  '  Leevys '  in  the  other  a  misprint  for 
'  Lewys '  ? 

2 


EDWARD  IV 

in  papir,  and  then  after  cleerely  I469(?) 

in  parchement iiijj.  viij^. 

And  also  wrote  the  same 
tyme  oon  mo  of  the  lengist 
witnessis,  and  other  dyvers  and 
necessary  wrytyngs,  for  which 
he  promisid  me  x^-  whereof  I 
had  of  Calle  but  iiij^  viij*^-  car. 
v^"  iiij'^- vs.  iiij^. 

I  resceyvid  of  Sir  Thomas 
at  Westminster,  penultimo  die 
Oct.,  anno  viij iijj.  iiij^. 

Item,  I  did  write  to  quairs 
of  papir  of  witnessis,  every  quair 
conteynyng  xiiij.  leves  after  ij"^' 
a  leiT injj.  viij^. 

Item,  as  to  the  Grete  Booke 
— First,  for  wrytyng  of  the 
Coronacion,  and  other  tretys 
of  Knyghthode,  in  that  quaire 
which  conteyneth  a  xiij.  levis 
and  more,  ij'^-  a  lef     ....  i'js.     na. 

Item,  for  the  tretys  of  Werre 
in  iiij.  books,  which  conteyneth 
Ix.  levis  aftir  ij'^-  a  leaff  ...  xs. 

Item,  for  Othea^  pistill, 
which  conteyneth  xliij.  leves     .  viij'.     \^a. 

Item,  for  the  Chalengs,  and 
the  Acts  of  Armes  which  is 
xxviij"  less iiijj.  viij<3. 

Item,  for  De  Regimine  Prin- 
cipum^  which  conteyneth  xlv" 
leves,  aftir  a  peny  a  leef,  which 
is  right  wele  worth     ....  iiJ5.    ix^. 

1  Othea  means  a  treatise  on  Wisdom. — F.     The  name  is  derived  from  the  Greek 
'fi  6ia,  but  was  used  in  the  Middle  Ages  as  a  proper  name.     See  a  poem  beginning 

'  Othea  of  prudence  named  godesse,' 

mentioned  in  the  Third  Report  of  the  Historical  Mss.  Commission,  p.  i88. 

3 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


I469(?)         Item,  for  Rubrissheyng   of 

all  the  booke 

Summa  rest' 

Summa  non  solut' 
pro  magno  ^  libro  scripto  xxvij^  cum  diu' 
chal.2 

Summa  Totalis 


ms.  iiij-^. 


xxijj.  'm]d. 
xljj.      j/s'.,     unde 


iij//'.  iijj.     v^. 


William  Ebesham. 

In  further  illustration  of  the  payments  made  in  that  age  for  writing,  etc.,  Sir  John 
Fenn  gives  the  following  extracts  from  an  original  quarto  ms.  then  in  his  possession, 
containing — 

The  various  expences  of  Sir  John  Howard,  Knight,  of  Stoke  by  Neyland, 
in  Suffolk,  (afterwards  Duke  of  Norfolk),  page  136. 

Item,  the  vij"'  yere  of  Kynge  Edward  the  iiij*,  and  the  xxviij.  day  of  .luly 
( 1 467 ).  My  master  rekened  with  Thomas  Lympnour  of  Bury,  and  my  master 
peid  hym — 

For  viij.  hole  vynets  .   .   .  prise  the  vynett,  xii^.,  .  .      viijj. 

Item,  for  xxj.  demi  vynets  .  .   .  prise  the  demi  vynett,  iiij^.        vijj. 

Item,  for  Psalmes  lettres  xv*^-  and  di'   .   .    .  the  prise  of  C. 
iiij^.      ...........        vj.     ij^. 

Item,  for  p'ms  letters  Ixiij'^-  .   .  .  prise  of  a  C,  j</.         .  .  v.    iij^. 

Item,  for  wrytynge  of  a  quare  and  demi  .   .   .   prise  the  quayr, 
xx^.     ...........        ijj.     v'jj. 

Item,  for  wrytenge  of  a  calender,  .....  xij^. 

Item,  for  iij.  quayres  of  velym,  prise  the  quayr,  xx^.      .  .         vj. 

Item,  for   notynge   of  v.  quayres  and   ij.  leves,  prise   of  the 
quayr,  viij  [J.]        .........       iijj.  yij^. 

Item,  for  capital  drawynge  iij"^-  and  di',  the  prise,  .  .  .  iij^^. 

Item,  for  floryshynge  of  capytalls,  v"--   .  .  .  .  .  yd. 

Item,  for  byndynge  of  the  boke,  .....      xijj. 


cs.     ijd. 

The  wyche  parcellis  my  master  paid  hym  this  day,  and  he  is  content. 

This  is  an  account  of  a  limner  or  illuminator  of  manuscripts,  who  resided  at 
Bury. 


'  magna,  '  m°  '  in  Fenn. 

2  So  in  Fenn.     Qu.  cum  diurnali  challengiorum  ?     Fenn  omits  the  whole  of  this 
clause,  unde     ....     chal\  but  notices  its  occurrence  in  a  footnote. 


EDWARD  IV 


696 

THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTONi 

To  the  worshipfull^  and  with  alle  myn  hert  right  entierly  bilovyd 
Sir  John  Paston^  Knyght^  this  lettre  be  delivered. 

Th'Erle  of  Oxinford. 

RIGHT  hertly  welbilovyd,  I  grete  you  wele.     And  where  I469(?) 
I    am    for    trowth    enformyd    that   the   Duchesse    of    J^^-  7 
Suffolk  wolle  hold  a  court  on  Monday  next  commyng 
at   Coton,  to   th'entent   that   she   wolle   fynde   the   maner   of 
Thempnals  holde  of  hir   by  knyghts   service   and    they  that 
ben   possessioners  of  the  same  shulde   payle   certeine   of  the 
Parke  of  Weverston  ;   and   by  cause   this   is   nat   performyd 
nor  don,  thoo  that  ben  possessioners  shall  at  the  said  court 
be  amersid.     And   it  is  agreed   that  Sir  William  Yelverton, 
Sir  Thomas  Hoo,  shalle  be  at  the  said   court  and  wolle  pay 
the  amercyment,  and  to  delyver  the  said  Duchesse  possession 
of  the  said  service  and  palyng,  and  so  by  this  meane  to  be 
come   tenauntes  to  the  said  Duchesse.     And  what  wolle   be 
falle   more   herof   I   kan  nat   sey.     Wherfor   me   thinkith   it 
were  welle  don  ye  were  at  the  said  court  with  your  councell, 
and  to  do  therin  as  they  wolle  avise  you.     Also  as  ye  come 
to   the   said   court    take   your  wey  by  the   said   Duchesse   to 
th'entent  that    ye   come   to   se   hir  welfare,   &c.      Do    herin 
as  your    councell  wolle   avyse  you.      I  wolde   ye  dud  welle. 
And  to  my  power  I  wolle  help  you.      And  our  Lorde  kepe 
yow.     Writyn  at  Tatyngston  the  vij.  day  of  Januer. 

Endorsed:  Th'Erle  off  Oxenfford. 


1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  It  will  be  seen  by  No.  690,  that  in  October  1468 
the  Duchess  of  Suffolk  had  a  design  of  suddenly  entering  the  manor  of  Cotton  and 
dispossessing  Sir  John  Paston.  This  letter,  in  which  it  is  said  she  proposes  to  hold 
a  court  there,  was  probably  written  in  the  beginning  of  the  following  year. 

5 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


697 

ABSTRACT  1 

1469  W.  CoTiNG  to  John   Cook,  draper  of  Norwich,  'and  that  he  deliver  or 

JAN.  y      send    this   bill   to    Richard    Kalle   in   all   goodly   haste,  for   the   matter   is   of 
substance.' 

This  day  in  the  grey  morning  three  men  of  my  Lord  of  Norfolk  with  long 
spears  carried  off  three  good  horses  from  John  Polejm,  '  one  of  your  farmers  at 
Tichewell,'  telling  him  to  treat  with  my  Lord  of  Norfolk.  Wishes  to  know 
what  to  do,  *for  such  an  open  wrong  unremedied  knew  I  never.'  Saturday 
after  Epiphany. 

♦  Anno  viij°  '  is  written  below. 

[The  signature  of  this  letter  is  written  in  an  abbreviated  form,  *  W.  Cot.' 
According  to  Blomcfield,  W.  Cotyng  was  rector  of  Titchwell  from  1450  to 
1457,  and  he  had  been  previously  rector  of  Swainsthorp,  to  which  he  was  pre- 
sented by  Judge  Paston  in  1444.  This  letter  is  twelve  years  later  than  the 
date  at  which  his  incumbency  of  Titchwell  is  said  to  have  terminated ;  but 
doubtless  he  is  the  writer.  He  is  referred  to  as  living  even  in  the  year  1485, 
in  a  letter  written  by  Dame  Elizabeth  Browne,  who  says  that  he  and  James 
Gresham  were  clerks  to  her  father  Judge  Paston.] 

698 
EDWARD  IV.  TO  SIR  JOHN   PASTON  2 
To  our  trusty  and  welbeloved  Sir  John  Paston^  Knight. 
By  the  Kinge. 

JAN.  18    r   I   CRUSTY    and    welbeloved,    we    grete    yow    well.     And 

I         how    be    It    that    we    late    addressed    unto    yow    our 

letters,  and  commanded   yow   by   the   same,  for  the 

conslderacions  in  them  conteined,  to  have  ceased  of  makinge 

any  assemblye  of  our  people  for  the  matter  of  variance  de- 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

2  This  letter  is  reprinted  from  the  Paston  Genealogy  in  the  Norfolk  Archceology^  to 
which  we  have  already  several  times  referred  {see  Nos.  484,  641,  643,  etc.).  Edward 
IV.  was  at  Salisbury  in  January  1469,  one  of  his  privy  seals  being  dated  there  on  the 
1 6th  of  the  month. 


EDWARD  IV 

pendinge  betwixt  yow  on  that  one  partie,  and  our  right  1469 
trustie  and  right  entirely  beloved  cosin  the  Duke  of  Norffolk  J^'*-  ^^ 
on  that  other,  and  to  have  appeared  before  the  Lords  of 
our  Councell  at  our  Palleys  of  Westminster  at  a  certeine 
day  in  our  said  letters  specified  ;  yett  nevertheless  we  under- 
stonde  not  as  yet  if  ye  have  conformed  yow  to  the  per- 
forminge  of  our  said  commandement  or  not.  We  therefore 
eftsones  write  unto  yow,  willing  and  straitly  charging  yow  to 
cease  of  the  said  ryotts  and  assemblies  ;  and  that  incontinent 
upon  the  sight  of  these  our  letters  that  ye  dispose  yow 
personally  to  appear  afore  the  said  Lords  of  our  Councell 
at  our  said  Pallis,  there  to  answere  to  such  thinges  as  in 
that  behalfe  by  them  shall  be  laid  and  objected  against  yow, 
not  failinge  hereof,  all  excuses  laid  aparte,  as  ye  will  avoide 
our  displeasure.  Yeven  under  our  signet  at  our  citye  of 
Salesbury,  the  xviij.  day  of  January. 


699 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  ROGER  TOWNSEND^ 

I'd  the  ryght  worshypfull  and  hys  best  betrustyd 
Frende^  Roger  'Townesende. 

RIGHT  worshipfull  sir,  I  comaunde  me  to  yow,  praying  1^6'j-g 
yow  hertly  to  remembre  that  by  the  award  made  by-  f^B-  12 
twen  yow  and  me  by  Roger  Townesend  for  a  tenement 
in  Stratton  in  Norfolk  callid  Rees,  I  shuld  delyver  yow  all  the 
evydens  apperteynyng  to  the  said  plase,  and  not  from  thens 
forth  to  chalenge  nor  interupte  my  lady  your  wife  ner  yow  of 
the  said  tenement ;  And  that  for  thes  said  causes  ye  shuld  and 
therto  were  agreyd  to  geve  me  an  horse  and  x/i.  to  an  barneys. 
And  moreovir  before  Cristemasse  in  the  kynges  chambre  ye 
ther  ageyn  promysed  me  that  ye  wold  such  tyme  as  I  send  to 
yow  home  to  yowre  plase  by  any  servant  of  myne  er  any  man 

1  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  186.]     This  letter  was  probably  written  after  the  death  of 
John  Paston,  the  writer's  father,  but  the  precise  year  is  uncertain. 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1467-9  from  me,  that  ye  wold  delyver  it  hym  and  send  it  to  me  by 
FEB.  1  z  hym.  My  hrothir  John  hath  send  me  word  that  he  remembird 
yow  therof  on  my  behalfe  and  that  you  answerid  hym  that  ye 
wold  gyfe  hym  or  me  a  fayre  harneys  at  your  comyng  to 
London.  I  deme  in  yow  that  ye  thynke  par  case  to  bye  a 
fayre  harneys  here  for  x.  markz ;  but,  cosyn,  as  God  help 
me,  I  bowte  an  harneys  syn  that  tyme  for  my  self,  which  cost 
me  xx//.  But  I  con  not  desire  of  yow  so  moch.  Wherfore, 
cosyn,  with  all  myn  hert  I  pray  yow  accordyng  to  yowre 
promyse  that  it  like  yow  to  send  me  by  my  servaunt,  berer 
herof,  the  said  somme  of  xli.,  as  my  trust  is  in  yow,  and  as  I 
wolde  in  like  case  have  don  to  yow,  and  as  in  the  premysses  I 
delt  feithfully  with  yow  and  evir  so  shall  dele,  with  the  grase 
of  God,  Who  have  yow  in  Hys  kepyng.  Wretyn  at  London 
the  xii.  day  of  Feveryer. — Youris, 

John  Paston,  k. 

700 
JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

T'o  my  mastyr,  Sir  John  Paston^  knyght,  in  Flet  stret. 

1468-9  ^^YR,  &c.  It  is  so  that,  with  owght  ye  have  hasty  re- 
n\  ^^\  paracyon  doon  at  Caster,  ye  be  lyek  to  have  doubyll 
^^  cost  in  hast,  for  the  reyn  hathe  so  moystyd  the  wallys 
in  many  plasys  that  they  may  not  tylle  the  howsys  tyll  the 
wallys  be  reparyd ;  or  ellys  ye  shall  have  doubyll  cost  for  to 
untylle  your  howsys  ayen  at  syche  tyme  as  ye  shall  amend  the 
wallys.  And  if  it  be  not  do  thys  yer,  many  of  the  wallys  wyll 
lye  in  the  moot  or  longe  to  ;  ye  knowe  the  febyllnesse  of  the 
utter  coort  of  old.  John  Pampyng  hathe  had  hame  to  Caster 
as  good  as  x""'-  tylle  fyr  the  plase  at  Yermeuthe,  and  it  wer 
pete  that  the  tyll  wer  lost ;  and  the  lenger  that  it  lythe  un- 
leyd  the  wers  it  wyll  be.  I  have  thys  day  bespok  as  myche 
lyme   as  wyll  serve  for   the   tyll.     Wherfor   I   prey  yow  re- 

1  [Add.  MS.  33,597,  f.  4.]     The  year  in  which  this  letter  was  written  is  doubtful, 
but  it  was  most  probably  either  1468  or  1469,  at  the  beginning  of  Lent. 

8 


EDWARD  IV 

membyr  the  cost  of  the  werkmanschep  and  purvey  the  money  1468-9 
by  00  mean  or  othyr,  what  shefte  so  evyr  ye  make.  And,  for  (?) 
your  owne  profyte,  remembyr  to  goo  thorow  with  Hwghe  of 
Fen ;  for  by  my  trowthe  ye  wyll  ellys  repent  yow  er  owght 
longe.  For  bothe  ye  shall  loose  hys  good  wyll  and  lett  pera- 
venture  that  avantage  that  he  myght  do  yow  in  your  lond 
recoveryng ;  wher  as  he  may  do  yow  harme  and  [//"]  he  wyll 
and  then,  to  late  wyse.  Item,  that  ye  remembyr  your  relesys 
and  gounys  of  my  Lord  of  Norffolk  er  ye  com  hom.  Item,  I 
send  yow  by  the  berer  herof  a  lettyr  dyrect  to  yow  that  a 
man  of  my  Lord  of  Oxenfortheys  dely  verd  me  ;  whych  lettyr 
comyth  fro  the  Kyng.  Item,  that  ye  remembyr  in  eny  wyse 
to  serche  for  the  fyne  in  syche  plasys  as  my  modyr  sent  you 
woord  of  in  a  lettyr  ;  for  myn  oncyll  and  my  grauntdam  report 
that  they  have  serchyd  in  all  plasys  thar  as  it  shold  be,  but 
they  can  not  fynd  no  thyng  of  it.  Also  that  ye  look  whedyr 
the  fyne  was  reryd  to  eny  feeffeys  mor  then  to  my  graunt- 
fadyr  and  my  grauntdam  and  ther  issu  ;  for  and  ther  wer  eny 
feeffeys  namyd  in  the  fyn,  it  is  the  bettyr  for  yow.  My 
Lady  and  my  grauntdam  be  com  to  London  for  the  same 
mater;  wherfor  it  wer  well  do  that  the  jwgys  wer  enformyd 
of  your  mater  befor  they  spok  with  theym.  I  prey  yow 
hye  yow  hom  hastyly  and  se  your  owne  profyte  your  sylf. 
Pampyng  and  I  shall  clowt  up  your  howsys  as  we  may  with 
the  money  that  we  have  tyll  more  come,  but  ye  shold  do 
bettyr  your  sylf.  I  prey  red  thys  byll  onys  on  a  day  tyll  ye 
have  sped  thes  maters  wretyn  her  in;  thowe  it  be  to  your 
peyne  to  labore  theym,  remembyr  your  profyt.  Nomor,  &c., 
but  God  kep  yow  thys  Lent  fro  lollardy  of  fleshe.  Wretyn  at 
Norwyche  the  Twysday  next  aftyr  that  I  departyd  fro  yow. 

J-  p- 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

701 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  Sir  John  Paston,  knyght^  he  this  delivered  in  hast. 

1469     T   GRETE   you  wele  and  send  you  Goddes   blyssyng  and 
MARCH  12    I       myn,  desiryng  you  to    recomaund    me   to   my   brother 
William,  and  to   comune   with  hym  and  your  councell 
in  such  materis  as  I  wryght  to  you,  that  ther  may  be  purveyd 
be  some  writyng  fro  the  Kyng  that  my  Lord  of  NorfFolk  and 
his  councell  seas  \cease'\  of  the  wast  that  thei  done  in  your 
lordsheps,  and  in  especiall  at  Heynford  ;  for  thei  have  felled 
all  the  wood,  and  this  weke  thei  wull  carie  it  a  wey,  and  lete 
renne  the  wateris  and  take  all  the  fyssh.     And  Sir  William 
Yelverton   and   his   sone   William,   John   Grey  and   Burgeys, 
William  Yelvertons  men,  have  ben  at  Guton  and  takyn  dis- 
tresses, and  with  ought  that  \unless\  thei  wull  pay  them  thei 
shall  not  set  ought  no  plow  to  till  there  lande  ;  thei  byd  them 
lete  there  land  lye  on  tilled  but  if  \unless'\  thei  pay  them.     So 
that  if  the  tenauntes  have  no  remedy  that  thei  may  pesibily, 
with  ought  assaught  or  distresse  takyng,  be  the  seid  Yelverton 
or  his  men,  or  of  any  other  in  there  names,  at  there  liberte 
herye  there  landis,  with  in   this  vij.  days  there  tylth  in  the 
feldis  be  lost  for  all  this  yere  and  thei  shall  be  on  doon  ;  and 
though  ye  shuld  kepe  it  here  after  pesibilly  ye  shuld  lese  the 
ferme  of  this  yere,  for  thei  may  not  pay  you  but  if  \unless'\  thei 
may  occupie  there  landis  ;  thei  set  not  so  sone  a  plow  ought 
at  ther  gatis  but  ther  is  a  felesship  redy  to  take  it.     And  thei 
ride  with  speris  and  launyegays,  like  men  of  werre,  so  that  the 
seid  tenauntis  arn  a  ferd  to  kepe  there  owyn  howses.     Ther- 
fore  purvey   an   redy   remedy,   or   ellis   ye  lese  the  tenauntis 
hertis  and   ye   gretly  hurt ;  for   it   is   gret   pety  to  here   the 
swemefuU  ^   and   petowse   compleyntis   of  the   pore   tenauntis 
that  come  to  me  for  comfort  and  socour  sometime  vi.  or  vij. 

1  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  202.]  This  letter  must  have  been  written  in  1469,  after 
the  Duke  of  Norfolk  and  Sir  William  Yelverton  had  taken  possession  of  Fastolf's 
lands.  2  snjoemeful,  sorrowful. — Halliwell. 

10 


EDWARD  IV 

to  geder,     Therfore,  for  Goddis  love,  se  that  thei  ben  helpyn,     1469 
and  desire  my  brothere  William  to   geve   you   good   concell  march  i  2 
here. 

Also  it  is  told  me  that  my  Lady  of  Suffolk  hath  promysed 
you  here  good  will,  if  your  bargayn  of  the  mariage  ^  holdyth, 
to  do  as  largely  as  she  shall  be  disired,  or  largelyer  if  there  be 
any  appoyntment  takyn  a  twix  you  for  any  materes  a  twyx 
her  and  you.     And  [i.e.  if]  thei  wuld  avyse  you  to  geve  any 
money  to  here  to  make  here  refuse  or  disclayme  here  titill,  me 
semyth  ye  may  wele  excuse  you  be  the  money  that  she  had 
last,  and  be  the  wrongis  that  were  don  be  here  and  here  men 
in  fellyng  of  wood  and  pullyng  doune  of  your  place  and  logge 
at  Heylesdon,  and  takyn  a  wey  of  the  shep  and  your  faderis 
goodis,  which  were  takyn  a  wey  at  the  pullyn  don  of  the  seid 
place  ;  wheche  wele   considered,  she  were  wurthy  to  recom- 
pense you.      And  [z/]   the   Kyng  and  the  lordis  were  wele 
enformed  thei  wuld  considere   the   redilyer  your  hurtis.      It 
semyth  this  Sir  William  Yelverton  hath  comfort  that  he  is  so 
bold,   for   [he^]   hath   ryght  prowde   and   fowle   langage  and 
ryght  slaundrows  to  the  tenauntis,   as  thei  have  reported  to 
me.     Therfor  be  ryght  ware  that  ye  bynde  not  your  self  nor 
mak  non  ensurance  till  ye  be  suer  of  a  pesibill  possession  of 
your  lande  ;  for  oftyn  tyme  rape  rueth,  and  whan  a  man  hath 
made  such  a  covenante  he  must  kepith  it,  he  may  not  chese  ; 
there[fore  ^]  be  not  to  hasty  till  your  londe  be  clere.     And 
labore  hastly  a  remedy  for  thes  premysses,  or  ellis  Sir  John 
Fastolffis  lyvelode,  though  ye  entre  it  pesibilly,  shall  not  be 
worth  to  ye  a  grote  this  yere  with  ought  ye  wull  on  do  your 
tenauntis.     I  pray  you  remembre  a  kerchye  of  Cremyll   for 
your  suster  Anne.     Remembre  to  labore  some  remedy  for  your 
faderis  will  whill  my  Lord  of  Caunterbury  ^  lyvyth,  for  he  is 
an  old  man  and  he  is  now  frendly  to  you  and  if  he  happed  to 
dye,  how  [wko~\  shuld  come  after  hym  ye  wote  never ;  and  if 
he  wer  a  nedy  man,  in  asmych  as  your  fader  was  noysed  of  so 
greet  valew  he  wull  be  the  mor  straunge  to  entrete.     And  lete 
this  be  not  for  gete  ;  for  [if]  ther  were  on  \_one^  that  aught  us 
no  good  wyll  he  myght  calle  us  up  to  make  accounte  of  his 

1  With  Anne  Haute.  ^  Omitted  in  MS.  ^  Cardinal  Bourchier. 

II 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1469  goodis,  and  if  we  had  not  for  to  showe  for  us  where  by  we 
MARCH  12  have  occupied,  he  myght  send  doun  assentence  to  curse  us  in 
all  the  diosyse  and  to  make  us  to  delivere  his  goodis  ;  which 
were  to  us  a  gret  shame,  and  a  rebuke.  There  fore  purvey 
hastly  and  wyssely  therfore  whill  he  lyvyth,  and  do  not  as  ye 
dede  whill  my  Lord  of  York  ^  was  Chanceller  make  delays,  for 
if  ye  had  labored  in  his  tyme  as  ye  have  do  sith,  ye  had  be 
thurgh  in  your  materis ;  be  ware  be  that,  and  lete  slauth 
nomor  take  you  in  such  diffaught ;  thynk  of  after  clappes  and 
have  provysion  in  all  your  work,  and  ye  shall  do  the  better. 
God  kepe  you.  Wretyn  on  Myd  Lent  Sonday  in  hast. 
Be  your  moder,  M.  P. 


702 
CARDINAL  BOURCHIER'S  DECLARATION  2 

1469  ^  I  ^O  all  cristen  men  to  whom  this  present  writyng  shall 
I  come,  Thomas,  by  the  providence  of  God,  Preeste 
Cardinall  Archiebisshopp  of  Caunterbury,  Primat  of  all 
Inglond  and  Legat  of  the  Appostallic  See,  gretyng.  Where 
now  late  Alice,  Duchesse  of  Suffolk,  come  to  us  and  desirid  of 
us  to  dismysse  us  of  oure  estate  and  to  enseall  a  deed  of  a 
relees  of  the  maner  of  Haylysdon  with  the  appurtenaunce  in 
the  counte  of  Norffolk  ;  which  we  denyed,  in  as  myche  as  wee 
stode  infeoffyd  in  the  seid  maner  with  othirs  to  the  use  of  Sir 
John  Paston  knyght,  sone  and  heire  to  John  Paston  sqwyer  ; 
to  the  whiche  the  seid  Duchesse  replied,  seying  and  affermyng 
that  she  was  accordyd  and  agreed  with  the  seid  Sir  John 
Paston  by  the  meane  of  the  ryght  Reverent  fader  in  God, 
George  Archebysshop  of  York,  and  that  the  seid  Sir  John 
Paston  was  fully  assented  and  agreed  that  the  seid  Duchesse 
shuld  have  the  seid  manere  wyth  th'appurtenaunce  to  hir,  hir 

1  George  Nevill,  Archbishop  of  York.  He  surrendered  the  Great  Seal  on  the  8th 
June  1467. 

2  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  127.]  From  what  Margaret  Paston  writes  to  her  son  Sir 
John  in  the  end  of  the  last  letter  about  his  father's  will,  and  also  from  what  she  says  a 
little  later  about  the  Duchess  of  Suffolk  (^see  page  15),  we  may  assign  this  document 
with  great  probability  to  the  year  1469. 

12 


EDWARD  IV 

heyris  and  assignes  for  ever  more,  and  that  all  the  feoffees  1469 
enfeoffid  and  seisid  in  the  seid  manere  wyth  the  appurtenaunce 
shuld  relees  and  make  astate  to  hir  or  such  as  shee  wolde 
assigne  of  the  seid  manere  wyth  th'appurtenaunce ;  the  wehych 
we  answerde  and  seid  upon  condicion  that  the  seid  Sir  John 
Paston  weere  so  agreed  we  wold  relees  wyth  a  goodwyll,  and 
els  not  ;  and  yff  so  were  that  we  cowde  understand  hereafter 
by  the  seid  Right  reverent  Fadir  in  God,  George  Archebisshop 
of  York,  or  by  the  seid  Sir  John  Paston,  that  ther  ware  noon 
such  accorde  made  by  twex  the  seid  Duchesse  and  the  seid  Sir 
John,  that  than  oure  deed  and  relees  by  us  so  ensealed  off  the 
seid  maner  wyth  th'appurtenaunce  shuld  stond  as  voyd,  and  of 
no  force  nor  effecte  ;  to  the  wehyche  the  seid  Duches  agreed, 
and  prayd  us  that  we  wold  sealle  hir  a  deed  of  the  same  maner, 
wyche  shee  had  theere  redy,  uppon  the  same  condicion  and 
uppon  noone  other.  And  wee  than,  at  hir  specyall  request 
upon  the  condicion  aforeseyd  rehersid,  sealid  the  seyd  deed  and 
delyvered  it  ;  and  the  seid  Duchesse  at  the  same  tyme  pro- 
mitted  us  that  she  wold  use  and  kepe  the  seid  writyng  noo 
notherwise,  nor  to  noon  othir  use  but  uppon  the  same  con- 
dicion as  is  aforeseid.  In  witnesse  whereoff,  to  this  oure 
present  writyng  we  have  sette  oure  seall. 


SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  myghf  well  belovyd  brother,  John  Paston, 
or  to  John  Dawbeney,  in  his  absence. 

RYGHT  worschypful  and  well  belovyd  brother,  I  comand  march  17 
me  to  yow,  letyng  you  wete  that  Sir  Thomas  Howes 
hadde  a  free  chapell  at  Castr,  wher  of  the  gyfte  longyth 
to  me,  whyche  chapell,  as  I  understande,  scholde  be  in  the  olde 
tyme,  er  the  place  at  Caster  wer  bylte,  with  in  the  motte,  wher- 

1  [From  Fenn,  iv.  308.]  Sir  Thomas  Howes  appears  to  have  died  in  the  latter 
part  of  the  year  1468.  Before  the  end  of  that  year  his  living  of  Pulham  was  vacant, 
and  his  death  is  alluded  to  in  a  letter  of  Margaret  Paston's,  written  on  the  30th 
September  1469,  as  having  occurred  'within  this  twelvemonth.'     It  would  appear  by 

13 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1469  for  I  ame  but  the  better  pleased ;  and  soo  it  is  now  that  at  the 
MARCH  17  speciall  request  of  the  Qwen  and  other  especiall  good  Lordes 
of  myn,  I  have  gevyn  it  to  the  berer  her  of,  callyd  Master 
John  Yotton,  a  chapleyn  of  the  Qwenys.  Neverthelle[ss]  in 
tyme  passyd  I  proposyd  that  the  master  of  the  colegg  scholde 
have  hadd  it,  and  so  er  longe  to  I  hope  he  schall,  wherfor 
I  thynke  he  most  take  possession,  and  that  is  the  cawse  of  hys 
comyng.  Wherfor  I  pray  yow  make  hym  good  cher.  He  is 
informyd  that  it  scholde  be  worthe  Cs.  be  yer,  whyche  I  belyve 
not  ;  I  thynke  it  der  jnow  x\s.  by  yeer.  He  most  have  it  as 
it  was  hadde  befor. 

Item,  thys  daye  I  understonde  that  ther  be  comen  letteris 
from  my  moder  and  yow,  and  Dawbeney,  wherin  I  schall  sende 
yow  answer  when  I  have  seyn  them. 

No  mor  at  this  tyme,  for  within  this  iij.  dayes  I  shall  lette 
yow  have  kneleche  of  other  maters. 

Wretyn  the  xviij.  day  of  Marche. 

Whether  he  nedyth  indoccion,  or  institucion,  or  non,  I 
wot  not ;  if  it  nede,  brother,  ye  may  seale  any  suche  thynge  as 
well  as  I.     Master  Stevyn  kan  tell  all  suche  thynges. 

John  Paston,  K. 

704 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 
To  Sir  John  Paston. 


I 


APRIL  3    T  GRETE  you  wele,  and  send  you  Godds  blissyng  and  myn, 

thankyng  you  for  my  seall  that  ye  sent  me  ;  but  I  am 

right  sory  that  ye  dede  so  grete  cost  ther  up  on,  for  on 

of  yi\d.  should  have  served  me  right  wele.      Send  me  ward 

the  following  extract,  quoted  by  Fenn,  from  the  Institution  Books  of  the  Bishop  of 
Norwich,  that  Sir  John's  presentation  referred  to  in  this  letter  was  not  allowed,  or  was 
not  made  out  in  time,  and  that  the  Bishop  presented  by  a  lapse : — 

'  Cantaria  in  Cayster-hall. 

'Lib.  xi.  p.  170,  21  March  14.68.  Mr.  Joh'es  Yetton,  S.T.P.  ad  col.  Ep'i. 
per  laps'.' 

1  [From  Fenn,  iv.  312.]  Allusion  is  made  in  this  and  the  next  letter  to  the 
expected  visit  of  Edward  iv.  to  Norfolk  in  1469.  Owing  to  the  proposed  marriage 
of  Sir  John  Paston  with  his  kinswoman,  Anne  Haute,  Lord  Scales  appears  at  this  time 

14 


EDWARD  IV 

what  it  cost  you,  and  I  shall  send  you  money  therfor.  I  send  1469 
you  a  letter  be  a  man  of  Yarmoth  ;  send  me  word  if  ye  have  april  3 
it,  for  I  marveyll  ye  sent  me  non  answer  ther  of  be  Juddy. 

I  have  non  very  knowleche  of  your  ensuraunce  [engage- 
ment], but  if  ye  be  ensured  I  pray  God  send  you  joy  and 
wurchep  to  geder,  and  so  I  trost  ye  shuU  have,  if  it  be  as 
it  is  reported  of  her  ^ ;  and  a  nemps  God,  ye  arn  as  gretly 
bownd  to  her  as  ye  were  maried,  and  therfor  I  charge  you  up 
on  my  blissyng,  that  ye  be  as  trew  to  her  as  she  wer  maried  on 
to  you  in  all  degrees,  and  ye  shall  have  the  mor  grace  and  the 
better  spede  in  all  other  thyngs. 

Also,  I  wuld  that  ye  shuld  not  be  to  hasty  to  be  maried  til 
ye  wer  more  suer  of  your  lyvelode,  for  ye  must  remembr  what 
charge  ye  shall  have,  and  if  ye  have  not  to  mayntene  it,  it  wull 
be  gret  rebuke ;  and  therfor  labour  that  ye  may  have  releses 
of  the  londs,  and  be  in  more  suerte  of  your  lond,  or  than  ye  be 
maried. 

The  Duchesse  of  Suffolk  ^  is  at  Ewhelm,  in  Oxford  shir, 
and  it  is  thought  be  your  frends  her  that  it  is  do  that  she 
myght  be  ferr  and  ought  of  the  wey,  and  the  rather  feyne 
excuse  be  cause  of  age  or  sikenesse,  and  if  that  the  Kyng  wuld 
send  for  her  for  your  maters. 

Your  elmyse  [enemies]  be  as  bold  her  as  thei  wer  befor, 
wherfor  I  can  not  thynk  but  that  thei  have  sume  comfort.  I 
sent  to  Cayster  that  thei  shuld  be  war  in  kepyng  of  the  place, 
as  ye  dede  wright  to  me.  Hast  you  to  spede  your  maters  as 
spedily  ye  can,  that  ye  may  have  lesse  felesshep  at  Cayster,  for 
the  expences  and  costs  be  grete,  and  ye  have  no  nede  therof 
and  [if]  ye  remembre  you  wele  what  charges  ye  have  beside, 
and  how  your  liffelode  is  dispoyled  and  wasted  by  your  adver- 
saries. 

Also  I  wuld  ye  shuld  purvey  for  your  suster  ^  to  be  with 

to  have  interested  himself  in  Sir  John's  behalf.  On  the  back  of  this  letter,  as  Fenn 
tells  us,  is  a  note :  '  The  L.  Scales  is  now  frend  to  Sr.  J.  Paston.'  But  the  hand- 
writing is  not  contemporaneous. 

1  The  lady  here  referred  to  is  Anne  Haute. 

2  Alice,  widow  of  William  de  la  Pole,  Duke  of  Suffolk. 

3  This  was  most  probably  Margery  Paston,  with  whom  the  whole  family  were, 
very  soon  after  the  writing  of  this  letter,  so  much  displeased  for  having  without  their 
consent  contracted  herself  in  marriage  to  Richard  Calle. — F. 

15 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1469  my  Lady  of  Oxford/  or  with  my  Lady  of  Bedford,^  or  in  sume 
APRIL  3  other  wurchepfull  place,  wher  as  ye  thynk  best,  and  I  wull 
help  to  her  fyndyng,  for  we  be  eyther  of  us  werye  of  other.  I 
shall  tell  you  more  whan  I  speke  with  you.  I  pray  you  do 
your  devyr  her  in  as  ye  wull  my  comfort  and  welefar,  and  your 
wurchep,  tor  diverse  causes  which  ye  shall  understand  after- 
ward, &c. 

I  spake  with  the  Lord  Skales  at  Norwich,  and  thanked  hym 
for  the  good  lordshep  that  he  had  shewed  to  you,  and  desired 
his  Lordship  to  be  your  contynuall  good  lord  ;  and  he  swore 
be  his  trought  he  wold  do  that  he  myght  do  for  you ;  and  he 
told  me  that  Yelverton  the  Justice  had  spoke  to  hym  in  your 
maters,  but  he  told  me  not  what  ;  but  I  trow,  and  ye  desired 
hym  to  telle  you,  he  wuld.  Ye  ar  be  holdyng  to  my  Lord  of 
his  good  report  of  you  in  this  contre,  for  he  reported  better  of 
you  than  I  trow  ye  deserve.  I  felt  be  hym  that  ther  hath  be 
profered  hym  large  proferes  on  your  adversaries  parte  ageyn 
you. 

Send  me  word  as  hastly  as  ye  may  after  the  begynnyng  of 
the  terme,  how  ye  have  sped  in  all  your  maters,  for  I  shall 
thynk  right  long  till  I  her  sume  good  tidyngs. 

Item,  I  pray  you  recomaund  me  to  the  good  mayster^  that 
ye  gaffe  to  the  chapell  of  Cayster,  and  thank  hym  for  the  gret 
cost  that  he  dede  on  me  at  Norwych  ;  and  if  I  wer  a  grette 
lady  he  shuld  understand  that  he  shuld  far  the  better  for  me, 
for  me  semyth  be  his  demenyng  he  shuld  be  right  a  good 
man. 

Item,  I  send  you  the  nowche^  with  the  dyamaunch,  be  the 
berer  herof.  I  pray  yow  forgate  not  to  send  me  a  kersche  ^ 
of  Cr'melle  for  nekkerchys  for  your  syster  Anne,   for  I  am 

1  Elizabeth,  the  daughter  of  Sir  John  Howard,  Knight,  and  widow  of  John  de 
Vere,  Earl  of  Oxford,  who  was  beheaded  in  1461-2. — F. 

2  See  vol.  iv.  p.  188,  Note  3. 

•^  Dr.  John  Yotton.     See  No.  703. 

*  An  ouch  is  a  collar  of  gold,  formerly  worn  by  women  ;  a  gold  button,  set  with 
some  jewel,  is  likewise  so  called,  and  that  most  probably  was  the  ornament  here  men- 
tioned to  be  sent  to  Sir  John  by  his  mother;  we  may  suppose  it  was  intended  as  a 
present  to  his  betrothed  bride. — F. 

*  A  kersche  of  Cr'melle,  perhaps  means  a  kerchief  of  Cremell,  crewel  or  worsted, 
to  be  made  into  neck-handkerchiefs  for  her  daughter  Anne,  who  appears  to  have  been 
for  education  and  board  with  some  lady  of  consequence. — F. 

16 


EDWARD  IV 

schente  of  the  good  lady  that  sche  is  with,  be  cawse  she  hathe     1469 
non,  and  I  can  non  gette  in  all  thys  towne.  april  3 

I  xuld  wrythe  mor  to  yow  but  for  lakke  of  leyser.  God 
have  yow  in  Hys  kepyng,  and  send  yow  good  spede  in  alle 
your  maters.     Wry  ten  in  haste  on  Eestern  Munday. 

Be  your  Moder. 

705 

JOHN   PASTON   TO   SIR  JOHN   PASTON^ 

To  Master  Syr  John  Paston. 

SYR,  I  pray  yow  recomand  me  to  my  Lord  Scalys  good  ^^^^^  7 
lordshep,  and  to  let  hym  weet  that,  in  lyek  wyse  as  hys 
Lordshep  gave  me  in  comandement,  I  have  enqweryd 
what  the  gentyllmanys  answer  was  that  my  Lord  of  Norffolk 
sent  to  to  awayte  up  on  hym  at  the  Kyngs  comyng  in  to  thys 
contre.  Hys  answer  was  to  my  Lord  of  Norfolks  messenger, 
that  he  had  promysyd  my  Lord  Scalys  to  awayte  up  on  hym  at 
the  same  seson,  and  in  as  myche  as  he  had  promysyd  my  Lord 
Scalys,  he  wold  not  false  hys  promesse  for  no  man  on  lyve.  I 
fond  the  menys  that  the  seyd  gentylemanys  wyfe  mevyd  hyr 
husbend  with  the  same  mater  as  thow  she  had  axyd  hym  of  hyr 
awne  hed,  and  he  told  hyr  that  he  had  gevyn  thys  answer. 
Thys  gentylman  is  Sir  William  Calthorp  ;  ^  but  I  pray  yow  tell 
my  Lord  Scalys  that  ye  undyrstand  not  who  it  is,  for  he  preyid 
me  to  be  secret  ther  in. 

I  pray  with  all  my  hart,  hye  yow  hom  in  hast,  for  we 
thynk  longe  tyll  ye  coome.  And  I  pray  yow  send  me  woord 
whedyr  ye  shall  be  mad  a  Crysten  man  or  ye  com  home,  or 
nowt ;  and  if  so  be  that  ye  send  eny  man  hom  hastly,  I  pray 
yow  send  me  an  hat  and  a  bonet  by  the  same  man,  and  let  hym 
bryng  the  hat  upon  hys  hid  for  mysfacyonyng  of  it.     I  have 

1  [From  Fenn,  iv.  318.]  For  the  date  of  this  letter  see  preliminar}'  note  to  the 
last  (p.  14,  Note  i). 

2  Sir  William  Calthorpe,  Knight,  had  been  High  Sheriff  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk, 
both  in  this  and  the  preceding  reign,  and  died  very  old  in  1494.  His  second  wife 
was  Elizabeth,  daughter  and  co-heir  of  Sir  Miles  Stapleton,  Knight,  of  Ingham. — F. 

VOL.  V. B  17 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1469    ned  to  bothe,  for  I  may  not  ryd  nor  goo  owt  at  the  doorys 
APRIL  7    with  non  that  I  have,  they  be  so  lewde  [s/ia^l^y'].     A  murry 
bonet,  and  a  blak  or  a  tawny  hat.     And  God  send  yow  your 
desyr.     Wretyn  at  Caster,  the  viij.  day  of  Apryll. 

Your  J.  Paston. 

706 

LORD  SCALES  TO  THE  COUNCIL  OF 
THE  DUKE  OF  NORFOLK  1 

Ih's. 

APRIL  10  ^  "jr  TYRSHYPFULL    and     my    ryght    gode     frend,     I 
^^        comaund   me   to   you.      And   where  as   I   am   en- 
^  formed  that  my  Lorde  of  NorfFolk  pretendeth  title 

to  serteyn  londys  of  Sir  John  Pastons  whych  were  late  of  Sir 
John  Fastolf,  it  is  sayd  that  by  the  comaundement  and  sup- 
portacyon  of  my  sayd  Lord,  sertayn  hys  servaunts  felleth 
wode,  maketh  grete  wast,  and  destrayned  the  tenants  of  the 
seyd  lands,  to  the  grete  damage  of  the  seyd  Sir  John  Paston 
and  hys  sayd  tenants ;  and  also  that  my  sayd  Lord  entendyth 
to  entre  sertayn  places  of  the  same.  And  for  asmoch  as 
maryage  ys  fully  concluded  by  twyx  the  seyd  Sir  John  Paston 
and  on  of  my  nerrest  kynneswomen,  I  dout  not  that  your 
reason  wele  conceyveth  that  nature  must  compelle  me  the 
rather  to  shewe  my  gode  wylJe,  assystens,  and  favour  unto  the 
seyd  Sir  John  in  such  thyngs  as  concerne  hys  enherytans. 
And  because  I  am  on  of  my  said  Lordys  councayll,  and  must 
and  will  tendre  hys  honour,  I  hertely  pray  you  that  it  may 
lyke  you  to  advertyse  and  avyse  my  sayd  Lord  and  yourys, 
that  all  such  entres,  fellyng  of  wode,  destraynyngs  of  tenants, 
and  all  such  maters  lyke  touchyng  the  sayd  londes  or  any  part 

1  [From  Fenn,  iv.  322.]  This  and  the  following  letter  were  printed  by  Fenn 
from  contemporaneous  copies,  written  on  the  same  paper  without  signature  or  address. 
On  the  back,  however,  is  the  following  memorandum  : — 'Copea  literz  Dni  de  Scales;' 
to  which  has  been  added  in  a  later  handwriting:  'ad  Conciliu  Due'  NorfF'  et  aliis 
(sic)  in  favore  J.  Paston  mil.  eo  quod  maritaret  cognata  suam  Anna  Hawte.'  The 
date  is  clearly  in  the  year  1469,  when  the  Duke  of  Norfolk  laid  claim  to  Caister. 

18 


EDWARD  IV 

of  them,  be  cessyd  unto  such  tyme  as  a  resonabell  meane  may     1469 
be  founde  by  my  sayd  Lords  counsayll,  my  Lord  my  faders^  ^''^'^  ^° 
and  other  cousyns  and  frendes  of  my  seyd  kynneswoman  thys 
next  terme,  as  may  be  to  my  sayd  Lordys  honour,  and  to  the 
savyng  of  the  ryght  tytle  of  the  seyd  Sir  John  Paston. 

Over  thys  I  pray  you  that  ye  wille  enforme  my  gode  frend 
James  Hobard  of  the  premysses,  that  he  may  advertyse  my 
seyd  Lord  in  lyke  wyse  ;  and  that  ye  will  yeve  credens  unto 
William  Paston,  and  I  shal  be  welwilled  to  do  that  may  be  to 
your  plesur,  with  Godds  mercy. 

Fro  Westmynstre,  the  x.  day  of  Apryll. 


707 
LORD  SCALES  TO 


RYGHT  trusty  and  welbelovyd,  I  grete  you  well.  And 
for  asmoch  as  a  maryage  ys  fully  concluded  bytwyx 
Sir  John  Paston  and  my  ryght  nere  kynneswoman 
Hawte,  I  will  that  ye  and  all  other  my  servaunts  and  tenants 
understand  that  my  Lord,  my  fader,^  and  I  must  of  nature 
and  reason  shewe  unto  hym  our  gode  assystens  and  favour  in 
such  maters  as  he  shall  have  a  doo.  Wherfor  I  pray  you 
hertely  that  ye  will  take  the  labour  to  come  to  Norwych,  to 
comen  with  William  Paston,  and  to  yeve  credens  unto  hym  in 
such  maters  as  he  shall  enforme  you  of  myne  entent,  and  of 
sertayn  persones  with  whom  ye  shall  comen  by  th'avyse  of  the 
seyd  William  Paston,  of  such  maters  as  touch  the  sayd  Sir 
John  Paston;  prayng  you  to  tendre  thys  mater  as  ye  wolde  do 
myne  owne. 

Fro  Westmynstre,  the  x.  day  of  Aprill. 

1  Richard  Woodville,  Earl  Rivers. 

2  [From  Fenn,  iv.  324.]     See  preliminary  note  to  the  last  letter  (p.  18,  Note  i). 

3  See  Note  i,  supra. 


^9 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


708 

ABSTRACT! 

1469  Citation    by    Thomas,    Cardinal    Archbishop   of  Canterbury,   to   William 

MAY  5      [^Waynflete]],   Bishop   of  Winchester,   and  John    Beauchamp,    Knight,    Lord 

Beauchamp,    to    appear    before    the    Archbishop    in    fifteen    days    after    being 

summoned,   and   take   upon   them   the   charge   of  the   execution   of   Sir  John 

Fastolf 's  will,  if  they  so  will  to  do. 

Lambeth,  5th  May  1469,  in  the  15th  year  of  the  Archbishop's  translation. 

[The  MS.  belongs  to  the  Castle  Combe  Collection.] 


709 

ARCHBISHOP  NEVILL  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  2 

To  my  right  trusty  and  welbeloved  Sir  John  Paston. 

Ih's. 

i469(.?)  I  )  IGHT  trusty  and  welbeloved,  I  grete  you  hertely  well, 
MAY  7  r^  and  sea^  you  by  Thomas  your  childe  xx,''-,  prayng 
you  to  spare  me  as  for  eny  more  at  this  tyme,  and  to 
hold  you  content  with  thessame,  as  my  singlr  truste  is  in  you ; 
and  I  shalle  within  bref  tyme  ordeigne  and  purveye  for  you 
such  as  shalbe  unto  your  pleasir,  with  the  grace  of  Almightty 
God,  who  have  you  in  His  proteccion  and  keping. 

Writen  in  the  manoir  of  the  Mor  ^  the  vij""  daye  of  Maye. 

G.  Eborac. 

1  [Add.  Charter,  18,249,  B.M.] 

2  'From  Fenn,  ii.  34.]  This  letter  was  almost  certainly  written  between  the  years 
1467  and  1469,  and  is  not  unlikely  to  be  of  the  latter  year,  before  the  Nevills  and  the 
Archbishop  had  come  to  be  regarded  as  open  enemies  of  Edward  iv. 

*  The  Moor  in  Hertfordshire,  a  seat  of  Archbishop  Nevill. 


20 


EDWARD  IV 

710 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTONi 

SYR,  plesyth  it  to  undyrstand,  that  I  conceyve,  by  your  1469 
lettyr  whyche  that  ye  sent  me  by  Jwde,  that  ye  have  [may] 
herd  of  R.  C.^  labor  whyche  he  makyth  by  our  un- 
gracyous  sustyrs^  assent  ;  but  wher  as  they  wryet  that  they 
have  my  good  wyll  ther  in,  savyng  your  reverence,  they  falsly 
lye  of  it,  for  they  never  spake  to  me  of  that  mater,  ner  non 
othyr  body  in  ther  name.  Lovell  axyd  me  onys  a  qwestyon 
whedyr  that  I  undyrstood  how  it  was  betwyx  R.  C.  and  my 
suster.  I  can  thynk  that  it  was  by  Callys  menys,  for  when  I 
axyd  hym  whedyr  C.  desyird  hym  to  meve  me  that  qwestyon 
or  not,  he  wold  have  gotyn  it  aweye  by  humys  and  by  hays, 
but  I  wold  not  so  be  answeryd  ;  wherfor  at  the  lest  he  told 
me  that  hys  oldest  sone  desyird  hym  to  spere  [inquire']  whedyr 
that  R.  C.  wes  swyr  of  hyr  or  nowt,  for  he  seyd  that  he  knew 
a  good  maryage  for  hyr,  but  I  wot  he  lyeyd,  for  he  is  hole 
with  R.  Cale  in  that  mater,  Wherfor  to  the  entent  that  he 
nor  they  sholl  pyck  no  comfort  of  me,  I  answerd  hym,  that 
and  my  fadyr,  whom  God  asoyle,  wer  a  lyve,  and  had  con- 
sentyd  ther  to,  and  my  modyr,  and  ye  bothe,  he  shold  never 
have  my  good  wyll  for  to  make  my  sustyr  to  selle  kandyll  and 
mustard  in  Framlyngham ;  and  thus,  wythe  mor  whyche  wer 
to  longe  to  wryet  to  you,  we  departyd. 

And  wher  as  it  plesythe  you  in  your  lettyr  to  crye  me 
mercy  for  that  ye  sent  me  not  syche  ger  as  I  sent  yow  mony 
for,  I  crye  yow  mercy  that  I  was  so  lewde  [hid]  to  encomber 
yow  with  eny  so  sympyll  a  mater,  consyderyng  the  grette 
maters  and  weyghty  that  ye  have  to   doo  ;    but  need  com- 

1  [From  Fenn,  iv.  344.]  This  letter  appears  by  the  contents  to  have  been  written 
a  little  before  Whitsuntide  after  the  death  of  Sir  Thomas  Howes,  and  when  the  Duke 
of  Norfolk  was  preparing  to  make  good  a  claim  to  the  manor  of  Caister,  which,  as  we 
shall  see,  he  regularly  besieged  and  took  in  September  1469.  The  date  is  therefore 
certain. 

2  Richard  Calle's  3  Margery  Paston. 

21 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1469     pellyd  me,  for  in  thys  contre  is  no  syche  stuffe  as  I  sent  to 

[may]     yow  for. 

Also,  wher  as  it  plesyth  yow  to  send  to  Rychard  Calle  to 
delyver  me  monye,  so  God  help  me,  I  wyll  non  axe  hym  for 
my  sylfe,  nor  non  had  I  of  hym,  nor  of  non  othyr  man  but  of 
myne  owne,  syne  ye  depertyd  ;  but  that  lytyll  that  I  myght 
forbere  of  myne  owne,  I  have  delyveryd  to  Dawbeney  for 
howsold,  and  pay  it  for  yow  in  menys  wagys  ;  and  ther  for 
who  ever  sendys  yow  word  that  I  have  spent  yow  eny  mony 
syne  ye  went  hens,  they  must  geve  yow  an  othyr  reknyng, 
savyng  in  met  and  drynk,  for  I  eete  lyek  an  horse,  of  purpose 
to  eete  yow  owte  at  the  dorys.  But  that  nedythe  not,  for  ye 
com  not  within  them  ;  wherfor,  so  God  help  me,  the  felaushep 
her  thynkys  that  ye  have  forgetyn  us  alle.  Wherfor  and  eny 
thyng  be  ille  rewlyd  when  ye  come  home,  wyet  it  [impute  it  to\ 
your  selfe  for  defawt  of  oversyght. 

Also,  I  undyrstand  for  verry  se[r]teyn,  and  it  is  sent  me 
so  woord  owt  of  my  Lordys  howse,  that  thys  Pentcost  is  my 
Lordys  consell  at  Framlyngham,  and  they  purpose  thys  week 
and  the  next  to  hold  coortys  her  at  Caster,  and  at  all  othyr 
maners  that  wer  Sir  John  F.,^  and  purchasyd  of  Yelverton  and 
of  Syr  T.  H.,^  whom  God  asoyle,  and  how  that  my  demenyng 
sholbe,  it  is  to  late  to  send  to  yow  for  avyse  ;  wherfor,  and  I 
do  well  I  axe  no  thank,  and  if  I  do  ille,  I  pray  yow  leythe  the 
defawt  on  over  lytyll  wyte,  but  I  purpose  to  use  the  fyrst 
poynt  of  hawkyng,  to  hold  fast  and  I  maye ;  but  so  God  help 
me,  and  they  myght  pulle  downe  the  howse  on  our  hedys,  1 
wyet  \blame\  hem  not,  whyche  I  trust  to  God  to  help  hem 
from;  for  by  God  that  bowght  me,  the  best  Erie  in  Inglond 
wold  not  dele  so  with  my  Lord  and  my  Lady  as  ye  do,  with- 
owt  makyng  of  some  menys  to  them  ;  so  God  help  me,  whoso 
ever  avyse  yow  to  do  so,  he  is  not  your  frend.  And  I  may, 
I  trust  to  God  to  se  yow  abowght  Mydsomer  or  befor,  for  in 
good  feythe  I  wene  ye  purpose  yow  that  it  shall  be  Estern  er 
ye  come  hom,  for  all  your  servants  her  wen  \_here  ween]  that 
ye  purpose  ne  more  to  dele  with  them,  but  to  leve  hem  her 
\here']  in  ostage  to  my  Lord  of  Norfolk. 

1  Fastolf's.  2  Sir  Thomas  Howes. 

22 


EDWARD  IV 

Also,  syr,  I  pray  yow  purvey  what  Ine  that  my  brodyr     1469 
Edmund  shall  be   in,  for  he   losythe  sore   hys   tyme   her,    I     l^^"^] 
promyse  yow  ;  I  pray  yow  send  me  word  by  the  next  messenger 
that  comyth,  and  I  shall  eythyr  send  hym  or  bryng  hym  up 
with  me  to  London. 

Also,  syr,  we  pore  sanz  deners  of  Castr  have  brook  iij.  or 
iiij.  stelle  bowys ;  wherfor  we  beseche  yow,  and  ther  be  eny 
maker  of  Steele  bowys  in  London  whyche  is  very  kunnyng, 
that  ye  wyll  send  me  woord,  and  I  shall  send  yow  the  bowys 
that  be  broken,  whyche  be  your  owne  greet  bowe,  and  Roberd 
Jacksonys  bowe,  and  Johon  Pampyngs  bowe  ;  thes  iij.  have 
kast  so  many  calvys,  that  they  shall  never  cast  qwarellys  ^  tyll 
they  be  new  mad. 

I  praye  yow  fynd  the  menys  that  my  Lord  have  some 
resonable  meane  profyrd,  so  that  he  and  my  Lady  may  undyr- 
stand  that  ye  desyr  to  have  hys  good  lordshep.  I  promyse 
yow  it  shall  do  yow  ease  and  your  tenaunts  bothe,  and  God 
preserve.  J,  P. 

711 

ROBERT  BROWNE  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON^ 

To  the  right  worshipful  Sir  John  Paston  knyght  be 

this  delivered. 

RIGHT  worshipfuU  Sire,  I  recommaunde  me  to  you,  &c.,  1469 
certefying  you  for  certeyn  that  the  kyng  sent  a  lettre 
unto  my  Lord  of  Norffolk  for  to  contenue  all  maner 
of  materes  unto  suche  tyme  as  he  sholl  take  a  direction  therin, 
as  I  am  enformed  by  Master  Haute,  and  by  a  messenger  of  his 
owne  [it  was  sent^],  &c.     Acordyng  to  the  same  entent  and 

^  See  vol.  ii.  p.  loi,  Note  3. 

2  [Add.  MS.  33,889,  f.  70.]  The  date  of  this  letter  is  fixed  by  Roger  Ree  being 
SherifFof  Norfolk,  which  he  was  from  November  1468  to  November  1469.  The  time 
would  seem  to  be  April  or  May  1469,  when  the  Duke  of  Norfolk  was  proposing  to 
take  forcible  possession  of  Caister. 

3  These  words  are  interlined  before  '  &c.,'  but  possibly  are  intended  to  be  read 
with  the  next  sentence,  which  is  difficult  to  construe,  there  being  no  punctuation  in 
the  MS. 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1469  the  rehersall  by  estimacion  by  cause  the  Secretary  of  his  Clerkes 
was  with  the  Kyng  the  Quene  hath  sent  a  ^  lettre  unto  my 
Lady  of  NorfFolk  and  a  nother  lettre  unto  my  Lady  of  Suffolk 
the  elder,  desyeryng  theym  to  common  with  my  lordis  that  all 
such  materis  as  the  Kyng  wrote  unto  them  fore  mabe  kept  so 
that  no  defaute  be  founden  in  them,  as  ye  may  understand  by 
youre  lettre  sent  frome  the  Quene,  &c.  Also  Roger  Ree  the 
Shirereve  of  the  Shire  wilbe  at  Caster,  as  my  Lord  Tresourer 
told  me,  upon  Tuesday  or  Wedynsday,  to  se  that  goode  rule 
be  kept.  Also  my  Lord  of  York^  sendis  you  a  lettre,  &c. 
My  Lord  Scalez  is  with  the  Kyng,  &c.  I  take  unto  the 
brynger  herof  xxs.  that  is  sufficaunt  as  he  wille  telle  you,  also 
the  secretarye,  vjj.  viij^^.  As  for  all  othere  materes  for  haste 
I  contenue  unto  that  I  may  have  leyser  to  write  to  you.  I 
pray  you  to  recommaunde  me  to  my  mastres  your  moder. 
At  London  upon  Sonday  in  hast. 

Robert  Browne. 

The  letter  is  endorsed  in  another  hand : — 

*  The  Counsell  of  my  Lord  of  Suffolk,  Robert  Harlesdon.  The  Counsell 
of  my  Lord  of  Norffolk,  Sir  Thomas  Walgrave,  knyght  [sergeant  at]  lawe  and 
Richard  Southwell  and  to  everiche  of  them.' 


712 

ABSTRACTS 

Richard  Calle  to  Sir  John  Paston 

MAY  22  I    would  have  been  with    you   on   Sunday  before  Ascension  Day,  had  I 

received  any  command  to  that  effect.  Henry  Wheler  told  me  my  day  of  the 
surety  of  peace  was  quindena  Tr'tnitatis,  '  and  thereof  he  made  me  a  bill.  He 
is  foully  to  blame  to  serve  me  so.'  I  am  much  bound  to  you,  nevertheless,  for 
the  safeguard  of  my  sureties.  Gives  an  account  of  monies  disbursed  since 
parting  with  Sir  John  at  London.  Repaid  '  my  mistress '  66j.  8^.,  part  of 
iooj.  she  lent  for  Mariot's  matter.  Paid  Dawbeney  for  household  since 
Midlent,    30j-.       Received    from    the    farmer    of  the    dairy,   £^^,    us.    ^J. 


^  Before  the  word  '  a '  '  nothere  '  is  interlined,  probably  by  inadvertence. 

2  Archbishop  Nevill. 

3  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.] 

24 


EDWARD  IV 

Delivered  *  to  the  master  of  the  college  onward  for  his  hire,'  50J.  Has  1 469 
received  of  Paston's  •  lifelode '  since  he  came  from  London  but  ;^i8,  ioj.  may  22 
Has  spent  ^12,  10s.  more  than  he  received,  and  has  borrowed  of  John  Wellys 
and  others.  Could  borrow  nothing  of  Mr.  William.  *  And  of  all  this  twelve- 
month I  have  not  had  one  penny  for  my  wages.  There  is  none  of  them  that 
hath  purveyed  nor  chevised  have  so  much  as  I  have  done.  Here  is  no  man 
paid  of  their  wages,  but  all  spent  in  household.'  Cannot  get  a  penny  in  all 
Suffolk  or  Flegge,  of  Paston's  *  lifelode,'  nor  in  Boyton  nor  Heyneford.  Can 
get  money  only  at  Gughton,  which  I  must  gather  myself,  for  the  bailiff  will 
not  come  there.  Much  malt  made,  which  had  better  be  sold  to  pay  the  men's 
wages,  who  complain  grievously,  '  and  the  master  of  the  college  and  Sir  John 
Stille  both.'  Will  obtain  for  Dawbeney  in  ten  days  6  or  7  marks  more,  which 
should  keep  the  household  for  the  next  seven  or  eight  weeks.  The  price  of 
malt  is  but  20</.  a  quarter,  but  it  would  be  better  to  sell  some  than  that  the 
men  should  be  unpaid.  Wonders  he  has  no  word  from  him  about  letting 
Spoorle.  Cannot  give  Mariot  an  estate  in  Bekham  as  Paston  directs,  for  Paston 
has  the  deed  which  James  Andrewes  sealed,  but  will  talk  with  him  and  see 
how  he  is  disposed ;  for  it  would  be  well  that  Paston  were  through  with  him. 
He  is  not  trusty,  but  seeks  pretexts  for  delay.  Jekson's  crossbow  is  broken. 
Shall  he  send  it  to  London  to  be  mended  ? 
Caster,  Monday  in  Pentecost  week. 

[The  mention  of  Jekson's  crossbow  being  broken  proves  this  letter  to  be  of  the 
year  1469.     Compare  No.  710,  p.  23.] 


RICHARD  CALLE  TO  MARGERY  PASTON  1 

MYN  owne  lady  and  mastres,  and  be  for  God  very  trewe  1469 
wyff,  I  with  herte  full  sorowefuU  recomaunde  me 
unto  you,  as  he  that  can  not  be  mery,  nor  nought 
shalbe  tyll  It  be  othewise  with  us  then  it  is  yet,  for  thys  lyf 
that  we  lede  nough  is  nowther  plesur  to  Godde  nor  to  the 
worlde,  consederyng  the  gret  bonde  of  matrymonye  that  is 
made  be  twix  us,  and  also  the  greete  love  that  hath  be,  and  as 
I  truste  yet  is  be  twix  us,  and  as  on  my  parte  never  gretter  ; 
wherfor  I  beseche  Almyghty  Godde  comfort  us  as  sone  as  it 

*  [From  Fenn,  iv.  350.]  This  letter  was  evidently  written  about  the  same  period 
as  No.  710.  The  original  appears  to  have  had  no  address,  although  Fenn  prints  one 
in  the  right-hand  copy ;  but  on  the  back  was  the  following  memorandum,  evidently 
not  quite  contemporary :  '  Litera  Ric'i  Calle  Margeriae  Paston  filiae  Joh'is  Paston  ari 
quam  postea  duxit  in  uxorem.' 

25 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1469  plesyth  Hym,  for  we  that  ought  of  very  ryght  to  be  moost  to 
gether  ar  moost  asondre  ;  me  semyth  it  is  a  m"'  [^ikousana']  yere 
a  goo  son  that  I  speke  with  you.  I  had  lever  thenne  all  the 
goode  in  the  worlde  I  myght  be  with  you.  Alas,  alas  !  goode 
lady,  full  litell  remembre  they  what  they  doo  that  kepe  us  thus 
asunder  ;  iiij.  tymes  in  the  yere  ar  they  a  cursid  that  lette 
matrymonye  ;  it  causith  many  men  to  deme  in  hem  they  have 
large  consyence  in  other  maters  as  wele  as  herin.  But  what 
lady  sufFre  as  ye  have  do ;  and  make  you  as  mery  as  ye  can, 
for  I  wys,  lady,  at  the  longe  wey  Godde  woll  of  Hys  ryght 
wysnes  helpe  Hys  servants  that  meane  truly,  and  wolde  leve 
accordyng  to  Hes  lawys,  &c. 

I  undrestende,  lady,  ye  have  hadde  asmoche  sorwe  for  me 
as  any  gentelwoman  hath  hadde  in  the  worlde,  aswolde  Godd 
all  that  sorwe  that  ye  have  hadde  had  rested  upon  me,  so  that 
ye  hadde  be  discharged  of  it,  for  I  wis,  lady,  it  is  to  me  a 
deethe  to  her  that  ye  be  entreted  other  wise  thene  ye  ought  to 
be.  This  is  a  peyneful  lyfe  that  we  lede.  I  can  not  leve  thus 
withoute  it  be  a  gret  displesure  to  Godde. 

Also  like  you  to  wete  that  I  had  sent  you  a  letter  be  my 
ladde  from  London,  and  he  tolde  me  he  myght  not  speeke  with 
you,  ther  was  made  so  gret  awayte  upon  hym  and  upon  you 
boothe.  He  told  me  John  Threscher  come  to  hym  in  your 
name,  and  seide  that  ye  sent  hym  to  my  ladde  for  a  letter  or  a 
token,  weche  I  shulde  have  sent  you,  but  he  truste  hym  not  ; 
he  wold  not  delyver  hym  noon.  After  that  he  brought  hym  a 
rynge,  seyng  that  ye  sent  it  hym,  comaundyng  hym  that  he 
schulde  delyver  the  letter  or  token  to  hym,  weche  I  conceyve 
sethen  be  my  ladde  it  was  not  be  your  sendyng,  it  was  be  my 
mastres  and  Sir  Jamys  ^  a  vys.  Alas,  what  meane  they  ?  I 
suppose  they  deeme  we  be  not  ensuryd  to  gether,  and  if  they 
so  doo  I  merveyll,  for  thene  they  ar  not  wele  avised,  re- 
membryng  the  pleynes  that  I  breke  to  my  mastres  at  the 
begynnyng,  and  I  suppose  be  you  bothe,  and  ye  dede  as  ye 
ought  to  do  of  very  ryght ;  and  if  ye  have  do  the  contrare,  as 
I  have  be  enformed  ye  have  do,  ye  dede  nouther  concyensly 
nor  to  the  plesure  of  Godde,  withoute  ye  dede  it  for  feere,  and 

1  Sir  James  Gloys,  a  priest. 
26 


EDWARD  IV 

for  the  tyme  to  please  suche  as  were  at  that  tyme  a  boute  you  ;     1469 
and  if  ye  so  dede  it  for  this  service  it  was  a  resonable  cause, 
consederyng  the  grete  and  importable   callyng  upon  that  ye 
hadde,  and  many  an  on  trewe  tale  was  made  to  you  of  me, 
weche  God  knowt  I  was  never  gylty  of. 

My  ladde  tolde  me  that  my  mastres  your  modre  axyd  hym 
if  he  hadde  brought  any  letter  to  you,  and  many  other  thyngs 
she  bare  hym  on  hande,^  and  a  monge  all  other  at  the  last  she 
seide  to  hym  that  I  wolde  not  make  her  prevy  to  the  begynn- 
yng,  but  she  supposyd  I  wolde  at  the  endyng  ;  and  as  to  that, 
God  knowt  sche  knewe  furst  of  me  and  non  other.  I  wott 
not  what  her  mastreschip  meneth,  for  be  my  trowthe  ther  is 
no  gentylwoman  on  lyve  that  my  herte  tendreth  more  then  it 
dothe  her,  nor  is  lother  to  displese,  savyng  only  your  person, 
weche  of  very  ryght  I  ought  to  tendre  and  love  beste,  for  I  am 
bounde  therto  be  the  lawe  of  Godde,  and  so  wol  do  whyle  that 
I  leve,  what  so  ever  falle  of  it.  I  supose,  and  ye  telle  hem 
sadly  the  trouthe,  they  wold  not  dampne  ther  soules  for  us  ; 
though  I  telle  hem  the  trouthe  they  woll  not  be  leve  me  as 
weele  as  they  woll  do  you  ;  and  ther  for,  goode  lady,  at  the 
reverence  of  Godde  be  pleyne  to  hem  and  telle  the  trouthe, 
and  if  they  woll  in  no  wise  agree  therto,  betwix  God,  the 
Deelf,  and  them  be  it,  and  that  perell  that  we  schuld  be  in,  I 
beseche  Godde  it  may  lye  upon  them  and  not  upon  us.  I  am 
hevy  and  sory  to  remembre  ther  disposicion,  God  sende  them 
grace  to  gyde  all  thyngs  weele,  as  wele  I  wolde  they  dede  ; 
Godde  be  ther  gide,  and  sende  them  peas  and  reste,  &c. 

I  mervell  moche  that  they  schulde  take  this  mater  so 
heedely  as  I  undrestonde  they  doo,  remembryng  it  is  in  suche 
case  as  it  can  not  be  remedyed,  and  my  desert  upon  every  be 
halfe  it  is  for  to  be  thought  ther  shulde  be  non  obstacle  a 
yenst  it ;  and  also  the  worchipfull  that  is  in  them,  is  not  in 
your  mariage,  it  is  in  ther  owne  mariage,  weche  I  beseche 
Godde  sende  hem  suche  as  may  be  to  ther  worschip  and  plesur 
to  Godde,  and  to  ther  herts  ease,  for  ell[es]  were  it  gret  pety. 
Mastres,  I  am  aferde  to  write  to  you,  for  I  undrestonde  ye 
have  schewyd  my  letters  that  I  have  sent  you  be  for  this  tyme  ; 

1  See  vol.  ii.  p,  no,  Note  i. 

27 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1469  but  I  prey  you  lete  no  creatur  se  this  letter.  As  sone  as  ye 
have  redde  it  lete  it  be  brent,  for  I  wolde  no  man  schulde  se  it 
in  no  wise  ;  ye  had  no  wrytyng  from  me  this  ij.  yere,  nor  1 
woUe  not  sende  you  no  mor,  therfor  I  remytte  all  this  matre 
to  your  wysdom.  Almyghty  Jesu  preserve,  kepe,  and  [give] 
you  your  hertys  desire,  weche  I  wotte  weele  schulde  be  to 
Goods  plesur,  &c. 

Thys  letter  was  wreten  with  as  greete  peyne  as  ever  wrote 
I  thynge  in  my  lyfe,  for  in  goode  feyth  I  have  be  ryght  seke, 
and  yet  am  not  veryly  weele  at  ease,  God  amend  it,  &c. 


JAMES  HAWTE  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 

To  my  worchypfull  brother.  Sir  John  Paston, 
be  thys  byll  delyvered  in  hast. 

MAY  22      I  ^  YGTH  worchipfull  brother,  I  recomaund  me  onto  you, 
rv       lettyng  you  to  wytte,  that  my  Lorde  Stafford^  was 
■^  made  Erie  of  Deveneschere  apon  Sonday ;  and  as  for 

the  Kyng,  as  I  understond,  he  departyt  \_departeth^  to  Walsyng- 
game  apon  Fryday  com  vij.  nygth,  and  the  Quene  also,  yf  God 
send  hyr  good  hele. 

And  as  for  the  Kyng  [he]  was  apoyntyd  to  goo  to  Calys, 
and  now  hyt  ys  pute  of.  And  also  as  for  the  goyng  to  the  see, 
my  Lord  of  Warwyke  schyppys  gothe  to  the  see,  as  I  under- 
stond. None  other  tydynggys  I  can  none  wryte  unto  you,  but 
Jesu  have  you  in  Hys  kepyng, 

Wretyn  at  Wyndysore  on  Monday  after  Whytsonday,  in 
hast,  &c. 

By  your  brother,  James  Hawte. 

1  [From  Fenn,  il.  16.]  The  King's  visit  to  Norfolk  and  the  creation  of  Lord 
Stafford  as  Earl  of  Devonshire  both  fix  the  date  of  this  letter  as  1469.  The  writer 
seems  to  be  the  brother  of  Anne  Hawte,  to  whom  Sir  John  Paston  was  engaged,  and 
he  accordingly  calls  him  his  brother. 

*  Humphrey  Stafford,  Lord  Stafford  of  Southwick,  was  created  Earl  of  Devonshire 
on  Sunday,  7th  May  1469  ;  so  that  the  writer  ought  to  have  said,  not  '  upon  Sunday,' 
but  'upon  Sunday  fortnight.' 

28 


EDWARD  IV 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTONi 

To  my  Modr^  and  to  my  brother,  John  Paston. 

BROTHER,  it  is  so  that  the  Kyng  schall  come  in  to  1469 
Norffolk  in  hast,  and  I  wot  nat  whethyr  that  I  may  june 
come  with  hym  or  nowt ;  if  I  come  I  most  do  make  a 
livere  of  xx'"  gownes,  whyche  I  most  pyke  owt  by  your  advyse  ; 
and  as  for  clothe  for  suche  persones  as  be  in  that  contre,  if  it 
myght  be  had  ther  at  Norwyche,  or  not,  I  wot  not ;  and  what 
persones  I  am  not  remembryd. 

If  my  modre  be  at  Caster,  as  ther  schall  be  no  dowt  for 
the  kepyng  of  the  place  whyl  the  Kynge  is  in  that  contre,  that 
I  may  have  the  most  parte  at  Caster  ;  and  whether  ye  woll 
ofFre  your  selfe  to  wayte  uppon  the  Lorde  of  Norfolk  or  not, 
I  wolde  ye  dyde  that  best  wer  to  do ;  I  wolde  do  my  Lorde 
plesur  and  servyse,  and  so  I  wolde  ye  dyde,  if  I  wyst  to  be  sur 
of  hys  gode  lordeschyp  in  tyme  to  kome.  He  schall  have 
CC.  in  a  lyverye  blewe  and  tawny,  and  blew  on  the  leffte  syde, 
and  bothe  darke  colors. 

I  pray  yow  sende  me  worde,  and  your  advyse  by  Judd  of 
what  men  and  what  horse  I  cowde  be  purveyd  off,  if  so  be  that 
I  most  nedys  kome,  and  of  your  advyse  in  all  thyngs  be 
wryghtyng,  and  I  schall  send  yow  hastely  other  tydyngs. 
Late  Sorell  be  well  kept. 

John  Paston,  Kt. 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  22.]  This  letter  must  have  been  written  in  the  beginning  of 
June  1469.  Edward  iv.,  as  appears  by  the  dates  of  his  privy  seals,  was  at  Windsor 
on  the  29th  May  and  at  Norwich  on  the  19th  June  in  that  year.  Fenn  says  he  was 
also  in  Norfolk  in  the  year  1474,  but  I  can  find  no  evidence  of  the  fact. 


29 


THE    PASTON  LETTERS 


716 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

1469     ^   I    ^O   begyn,   God  yeld   yow  for   my   hatys.      The  Kyng 
JUNE  I         hathe  ben  in  this  centre,  and  worchepfully  receyvyd 

in  to  Norwyche,  and  had  ryght  good  cher  and  gret 
gyftys  in  thys  centre,  wherwythe  he  holdyth  hym  so  well  con- 
tent that  he  wyll  hastyly  be  her  agayn,  and  the  Qwen  allso, 
with  whom,  by  my  power  avyse,  ye  shall  com,  if  so  be  that 
the  terme  be  do  by  that  tym  that  she  com  in  to  this  centre. 
And  as  for  yowr  maters  her,  so  God  help  me,  I  have  den  as 
myche  as  in  me  was,  in  laboryng  of  theym,  as  well  to  my 
Lord  Revers-  as  to  my  Lord  Scalys,^  Syr  John  Wydwyll,* 
Thomas  Wyngfeld,  and  othyr  abewt  the  Kyng.  And  as  for 
the  Lord  Revers,  he  seyd  to  myn  oncyll  William,  Fayrfax, 
and  me,  that  he  shold  meve  the  Kyng  to  spek  to  the  two 
Dukys  of  NorfFolk  and  Suffolk,  that  they  shold  leve  of  ther 
tytyls  of  syche  lend  as  wer  Syr  John  Fastelfs.  And  if  so  be 
that  they  weld  do  newt  at  the  Kyngs  reqwest,  and  then  the 
Kyng  shold  cemand  theym  to  do  no  wasts,  nor  mak  non 
assawtys  nor  frayis  upon  your  tenants  nor  plasys,  tyll  syche 
tym  as  the  lawe  hathe  determynd  with  yew  or  ayenst  yow  ; 
this  was  seyd  by  hym  the  sam  day  in  the  mornyng  that  he 
depertyd  at  noon.  Whedyr  he  meved  the  Kyng  with  it  or 
newt  I  can  not  sey,  myn  oncyll  Wyllyam  thynkys  naye. 
And  the  same  aftyr  none  folowyng  I  told  my  Lord  Scalys 
that  I  had  spekyn  with  my  Lord  hys  fadyr,  in  lyek  forme  as  I 

^  [From  Fenn,  iv.  334..J  Edward  i v.  arrived  at  Norwich  in  the  middle  of  the 
month  of  June  1469.  There  are  privy  seals  dated  at  Bury  on  the  15th  and  i6th  of 
the  month,  at  Norwich  on  the  19th  and  21st,  at  Walsingham  on  the  21st  and  22nd, 
at  Lynn  on  the  26th,  and  at  Stamford  on  the  5th  July.  Edward  did  not  return  with 
the  Queen  as  he  intended,  but  she  visited  Norwich  without  him  a  little  later.  See  a 
paper  on  the  subject  of  her  visit  by  Mr.  Harrod,  in  the  Norfolk  Archeology,  vol.  v. 
p.  32. 

2  Richard  Woodville,  Earl  Rivers,  father  to  the  Queen,  Lord  Treasurer  and 
Constable  of  England. 

3  Anthony  Woodville,  Lord  Scales,  eldest  son  of  the  Earl  Rivers. 
*  A  younger  son  of  Earl  Rivers. 

30 


EDWARD  IV 

have  rehersyd,  and  axyd  hym  whedyr  that  my  Lord  hys  fadyr     1469 
had  spokyn  to  the  Kyng  or  nowt,  and  he  gave  me  thys  answer,      J^^e 
that  whedyr  he  had  spokyn  to  the  Kyng  or  nowt,  that  the 
mater  shold  do  well  inow. 

Thomas  Wygfeld  told  me,  and  swore  on  to  me,  that  when 
Brandon  meuvyd  the  Kyng,  and  besowght  hym  to  shew  my 
Lord  favour  in  hys  maters  ayenst  yow,  that  the  Kyng  seyd  on 
to  hym  ayen,  '  Brandon,  thow  thou  can  begyll  the  Dwk  of 
Norffolk,  and  bryng  hym  abow  the  thombe  as  thow  lyst,  I  let 
the  wet  thow  shalt  not  do  me  so  ;  for  I  undyrstand  thy  fals 
delyng  well  inow.'  And  he  seyd  on  to  hym,  more  over,  that 
if  my  Lord  of  Norffolk  left  not  of  hys  hold  of  that  mater, 
that  Brandon  shold  repent  itt,  every  vayn  in  hys  hert,  for  he 
told  hym  that  he  knew  well  inow  that  he  myght  reauyll  \_rule] 
my  Lord  of  Norffolk  as  he  wold  ;  and  if  my  Lord  dyd  eny 
thyng  that  wer  contrary  to  hys  lawys,  the  Kyng  told  hym  he 
knew  well  inow  that  it  was  by  no  bodys  menys  but  by  hys  ; 
and  thus  he  depertyd  fro  the  Kyng. 

Item,  as  by  wordys,  the  Lord  Scalys  and  Syr  John 
Wydwyll  tok  tendyr  your  maters  mor  then  the  Lord  Revers. 

Item,  Syr  John  Wydvyll  told  me,  when  he  was  on  horsbak 
at  the  Kyngs  depertyng,  that  the  Kyng  had  comandyd  Bran- 
don of  purpose  to  ryd  forthe  fro  Norwych  to  Lyne,  for  to  tak 
a  conclusyon  in  your  mater  for  yow  ;  and  he  bad  me  that  I 
shold  cast  no  dowghtys  but  that  ye  shold  have  your  entent, 
and  so  dyd  the  Lord  Scalys  also  ;  and  when  that  I  preyd  them 
at  eny  tyme  to  shew  ther  favor  to  your  mater,  they  answered 
that  it  was  ther  mater  as  well  as  yours,  consyderyng,  the  alyans^ 
betwyx  yow.  Comon  with  Jakys  Hawt,  and  he  shall  tell  yow 
what  langage  was  spekyn  betwen  the  Duk  of  Suffblks  consell, 
and  hym,  and  me  ;  it  is  to  long  to  wryght,  but  I  promyse  yow 
ye  ar  be  held  to  Jakys,  for  he  sparyd  not  to  spek. 

Item,  the  Kyng  rod  thorow  Heylysdon  Waren  towads 
Walsyngham,  and  Thomas  Wyngfeld  promysyd  me  that  he 
wold  fynd  the  menys  that  my  Lord  of  Glowsestyr  ^  and  hym 
sylf  bothe  shold  shew  the  Kyng  the  loge  that  was  breke  down, 

1  This  refers  to  the  contract  between  Sir  John  Paston  and  Anne  Hawte. — F. 

2  Richard,  Duke  of  Gloucester,  afterwards  King  Richard  in. — F. 

31 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1469  and  also  that  they  wold  tell  hym  of  the  brekyng  down  of  the 
JUNE  plase.  Contrary  to  thys  maters,  and  all  the  comfort  that  I 
had  of  my  Lord  Scalys,  Sir  John  Wydvyll,  and  Thomas 
Wyngfeld,  myn  oncyll  Wylliam  sethe  that  the  Kyng  told  hym 
hys  owne  mowthe,  when  he  had  redyn  for  by  the  loge  in 
Heylysdon  Waren,  that  he  supposyd  as  well  that  it  myght  fall 
downe  by  the  self  as  be  plukyd  downe,  for  if  it  had  be  plukyd 
down,  he  seyd  that  we  myght  have  put  in  our  byllys  of  it, 
wehn  hys  jugys  sat  on  the  oyeer  determyner  in  Norwyche, 
he  beyng  ther.  And  then  myn  oncyll  seythe  how  that  he 
answered  the  Kyng,  that  ye  trustyd  to  hys  good  grace  that  he 
shold  set  yow  thorow  with  both  the  Dwkys,  by  mene  of  trete  ; 
and  he  seythe  that  the  Kyng  answerd  hym  that  he  wold 
neythyr  tret  nor  spek  for  yow,  but  for  to  let  the  lawe  proced, 
and  so  he  seyth  that  they  depertyd.  And  by  my  trowthe,  and 
my  Lord  Tresorer  encorage  you  not  more  than  he  dyd  us 
her,  ye  shall  have  but  esy  [indifferent']  help  as  on  that  party. 
Wherfor  labor  your  maters  effectually  ;  for  by  my  trowthe  it 
is  nedy[s],  for,  for  all  ther  wordys  of  plesur,  I  cannot  undyr- 
stand  what  ther  labor  in  thys  contre  hathe  don  good  ;  wherfor 
be  not  ovyr  swyft  tyll  ye  be  swyr  of  your  lond,  but  labor  sore 
the  lawe,  for  by  my  trowthe  tyll  that  he  passyd  with  yow,  ye 
get  but  esy  help  as  I  can  undyrstand. 

I  had  with  me  on  day  at  dener  in  my  modyrs  plase,  she 
beyng  owt,  the  Lord  Scalys,  Sir  John  Wydvyll,  Sir  John 
Haward,  Nicolas  Haward,  John  of  Par,  Thomas  Gornet, 
Foscwe,  Cheyny,  Trussell,  the  Knyghts  son,  Thomas  Boleyn, 
qua  propter^  Brampton,  Barnard,  and  Broun,  Perse,  Howse, 
W.  Tonstale,  Lewes  Debretayll,  and  othyr,  and  mad  hem  good 
cher,  so  as  they  held  them  content. 

Item,  my  Lord  of  Norffolk  gave  Bernard,  Broom,  nor  me 
no  gownys  at  thys  seson,  wherfor  I  awaytyd  not  on  hym  ; 
notwithstandyng  I  ofyrd  my  servyse  for  that  seson  to  my 
Lady,  but  it  was  refusyd,  I  wot  by  avyse  ;  wherfor  I  purpose 
no  more  to  do  so.  As  for  Bernard,  Barney,  Broom,  and 
W.  Calthorp,  ar  sworn  my  Lord  of  Glowsetyrs  men,  but  I 
stand  yet  at  large  ;  not  withstandyng  my  Lord  Scalys  spok  to 
me  to  be  with  the  Kyng,  but  I  mad  no  promes  so  to  be,  for  I 
32 


EDWARD  IV 

told  hym  that  I  was  not  woorthe  a  groote  withowt  yow,  and     1469 
therfor  I  wold  male  no  promes  to  nobody  tyll  they  had  your     J"ne 
good  wyll  fyrst ;  and  so  we  depertyd. 

It  was  told  me  that  ther  was  owt  a  preve  seall  for  yow  to 
attend  upon  the  Kyng  northeward  ;  and  if  it  be  so,  I  thynk 
veryly  it  is  do  to  have  yow  fro  London  be  craft,  that  ye  shold 
not  labor  your  maters  to  a  conclusyon  thys  terme,  but  put 
them  [in]  delaye.  I  pray  yow  purvey  yow  on  it  to  be  at  horn 
as  sone  as  the  terme  is  doone,  for  be  God  I  take  gret  hurt  for 
myn  absence  in  dyvers  plasys,  and  the  most  part  of  your  men 
at  Caster  wyll  deperte  withowt  abod,  and  ye  be  not  at  hom 
within  thys  fortnyght.  I  pray  yow  bryng  hom  poynts  and 
lasys  of  sylk  for  yow  and  me.  J.  P. 


717 

ABSTRACT! 

Richard  Calle  to  Sir  John  Paston 

Has  arranged  with  Mariot's  debtors  at  Bekham,  and  discharged  him  of  the  july  3 
debt  of  j^i6.  Has  thus  taken  an  open  estate  in  the  manor,  as  Paston  desired. 
Had  much  trouble  to  bring  Mariot,  and  especially  his  wife,  [to  reason],  but  with 
fair  words  and  money  got  her  out  of  the  house.  Lord  Scales  has  sent  to-day  to 
Mr.  Roos  and  others  for  men  to  come  to  Middleton  on  Wednesday, — short 
warning  enough  ;  and  we  were  in  doubt  '  what  purveyance  ye  had  made  at 
London.'  I  believe  my  mistress  and  my  master  your  brother  have  sent  you 
word  of  the  demeaning  of  the  King  and  the  Lords  here. 

Norwich,  Monday  after  St.  Peter's  day. 

[The  reference  to  the  King's  being  in  Norfolk  fixes  the  date  of  this  letter 
to  the  year  1469.] 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 


VOL.  V. — c  33 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


718 

JOHN  AUBRY^  TO  SIR  HENRY  SPELMAN^ 

To  the  right  reverent  Sir  Henry  Spelman^  Recorder  of 
the  Cite  of  Norwich^  be  this  Letter  delivered. 

^4^9  I  )  IGHT  reverent  sir,  I  recomaunde  me  to  you.  Plese  it 
JULY  9  r^  you  to  knowe,  this  same  day  com  to  me  the  Shirreve 
of  Norffolk  ^  hymself,  and  tolde  me  that  the  Quene 
shall  be  at  Norwich  up  on  Tuysday  *  cometh  sevenyght  suyrly. 
And  1  desired  to  have  knowe  of  hym,  by  cause  this  shuld  be 
hir  first  comyng  hedir,  how  we  shuld  be  rulyd,  as  well  in  hir 
resseyvyng,  as  in  hir  abidyng  here.  And  he  seide,  he  wold 
nat  ocupie  hym  ther  wyth,  but  he  councelid  us  to  wryte  to  you 
to  London,  to  knowe  of  hem  that  ben  of  counsell  of  that  cite, 
or  wyth  other  wurshepfull  men  of  the  same  cite,  that  ben 
knowyng  in  that  behalf,  and  we  to  be  ruled  ther  aftir,  as  were 
acordyng  for  us  ;  for  he  lete  me  to  wete  that  she  woU  desire  to 
ben  resseyved  and  attendid  as  wurshepfully  as  evir  was  Quene 
a  forn  hir.  Wherefore,  sir,  I,  be  the  assent  of  my  Bretheren 
Aldermen,  &c.,  prey  you  hertily  to  have  this  labour  for  this 
cite.  And  that  it  plese  you,  if  it  may  be,  that  at  that  day  ye  be 
here  in  propre  persone ;  and  I  trust  in  God,  that  outher  in 
rewards,  or  ellys  in  thankynges,  both  of  the  Kyngs  comyng, 
and  in  this,  ye  shall  ben  plesid  as  worthy  is. 

Wrete  in  hast  at  Norwich  the  vj.  day  of  Juyll  Anno  ix" 
Regis  E.  quarti. 

By  your  weelwyller,         John  Aubry,  &c. 

1  Mayor  of  Norwich  in  J469.  2  [From  Fenn,  ii.  18.] 

3  Roger  Rec  was  Sheriff  of  Norfolk  this  year.  *  i8th  July. 


34 


EDWARD  IV 

719 

EDWARD  IV.  TO  THE  DUKE  OF  CLARENCE,  &c.i 

These  iij.  letteres  undirwreten^  the  Kyng  of  his  own  hand  wrote  unto     1469 
my  Lords  Clarence ,   Warrewyke^  and  Archbishop  of  Tork.    Ju^y  9 
The  credence  wherof  in  substaunce  waSj  that  every  of  them 
shulde  in  suech  pesibil  wise,  as  thei  have  be  accustumed  to  ryde, 
come  unto  his  Highness. 

R.  E.  To  our  Brother  of  Clarence. 

BRODIR,  we  pray  you  to  yeve  feight  \_faith']  and  credence 
to  our  welbeloved  Sir  Thomas  Montgomery  and 
Morice  Berldy,  in  that  on  our  behalf  thei  shal  declare 
to  you.  And  we  truste  ye  wole  dispose  you  accordyng  to  our 
pleser  and  comaundement.  And  ye  shal  be  to  us  right  welcome. 
At  Notyngham  the  ix.  day  of  Jull. 

To  our  Cosyn  TKerl  of  Warr . 

COSYN,  we  grete  you  well,  and  pray  you  to  yeve  feight 
and  credence  to  Sir  Thomas  Mongomery  and  Morice 
Berkley,  &c.  And  we  ne  trust  that  ye  shulde  be  of 
any  suech  disposicion  towards  us,  as  the  rumour  here  renneth, 
consederyng  the  trust  and  afFeccion  we  bere  in  yow.  At  Not- 
yngham the  ix.  day  of  Jull.  And,  cosyn,  ne  thynlc  but  ye 
shalbe  to  us  welcome. 

To  our  Cosyn  TK archbyshop  of  Torke. 

COSYN,  we  pray  you  that  ye  wul,  accordyng  to  the  pro- 
myse  ye  made  us,  to  come  to  us  as  sone  as  ye  goodely 
may.     And   that  [ye]  yeve  credence  to  Sir  Thomas 
Mongomery  and  Morice  Berkly,  in  that  un  our  behalve  thei 

^  [From  Fenn,  ii.  40.]  The  dates  of  Edward  the  Fourth's  privy  seals  show  that 
he  was  at  Nottingham  in  July  1469.  He  was  not  there  in  1470,  the  year  to  which 
Fenn  assigns  these  letters  ;  and  both  Clarence  and  Warwick  were  then  in  France.  It 
would  appear,  therefore,  that  these  letters  were  written  at  the  time  of  Robin  of 
Redesdale's  rebellion,  which  the  King  was  going  northwards  to  suppress. 

zs 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1469    shal  sey  to  you  ;  and  ye  shalbe  to  us  welcome.     At  Notyng- 
juLY  9    ham  the  ix.  day  of  Jul. 


720 
MARGARET  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 

'To  Sir  John  Pas  ton  y  be  this  delivered  in  hast. 


I 


AUG.  3 1  IT  GRETE  you  wele,  and  send  you  Godds  blyssyng  and 
myn,  letyng  you  wete  that  Sir  John  Hevenyngham  was  at 
Norwich  this  day,  and  spake  with  me  at  my  moders,  but 
he  wuld  not  that  it  shuld  be  understand,  for  my  Lord  hath  mad 
hym  on  of  the  capteynes  at  Caystre  of  the  pepill  that  shuld 
kepe  the  wetche  abaught  the  place,  that  no  mann  shuld  socour 
them,  if  my  Lord  departed.  I  desired  hym  to  favour  them,  if 
any  man  shuld  come  to  them  fro  me  or  you,  and  he  wuld  not 
graunte  it,  but  he  desired  me  to  write  to  you  to  understand  if 
that  my  Lord  myght  be  mevyd  to  fynde  suerte  to  recompense 
you  all  wrongs,  and  ye  wuld  suffre  hym  to  entre  pesibilly,  and 
the  lawe  after  his  entre  wuld  deme  it  you.  Be  ye  avysed  what 
answer  ye  wuld  yeve. 

Item,  sith  that  that  I  spake  with  hym,  and  the  same  day  a 
feythfull  frende  of  owrs  came  on  to  me  and  mevyd  me  if  that 
my  Lord  myght  be  entreted  to  suffre  endifferent  men  to  kepe 
the  place,  and  take  the  profites  for  bothe  parties  till  the  right 
be  determyned  be  the  lawe  ;  and  my  Lord  for  his  parte,  and 
ye  for  your  parte,  to  fynde  sufficient  suerte  that  you  nowther 
shuld  vex,  lette,  ner  trobilled  the  seid  endifferent  men  to  kepe 
pesibiley  the  possession  of  the  seid  place,  and  to  take  the  pro- 
fights  on  to  the  tyme  to  be  determyned  be  the  lawe,  to  his 
behowe  that  the  lawe  demeth  it.  And  the  seid  persones 
that  so  endifferently  kepe  possession  befor  ther  entre  into  the 
seid  place,  to  fynde  also  sufficient  suerte  to  answer  the  parte 
that  the  lawe  demeth  it  to,  of  the  profits  duryng  ther  posses- 
sion, and  to  suffire  hym  pessibilly  to  entre,  or  any  in  his  name, 

^  [From  Fenn,  iv.  366.]     This  letter  was  written  after  the  Duke  of  Norfolk  had 
begun  to  besiege  Caister,  which  he  did  in  the  year  1469. 

36 


EDWARD  IV 

whan  so  ever  thei  be  required  be  the  parte  to  whom  the  right  1469 
is  demyd  of  all  thes  premyses.  Send  werd  how  ye  will  be  aug.  31 
demened  be  as  good  advyse  as  ye  can  gete,  and  make  no 
longer  delay,  for  thei  must  neds  have  hasty  socour  that  be  in 
the  place,  for  thei  be  sore  hurt,  and  have  non  help.  And  if 
thei  have  hasty  help  it  shall  be  the  grettest  wurchip  that  ever 
ye  had,  and  if  thei  be  not  holpen  it  shall  be  to  you  a  gret  dis- 
wurchep  ;  and  loke  never  to  have  favour  of  your  neybors  and 
frends  but  if  this  spede  wele ;  therfor  pretend  it  in  your  mend, 
and  purvey  therfor  in  hast.  How  so  ever  ye  do,  God  kepe 
you,  and  send  yow  the  vittory  of  your  elmyse,  and  geve  yow 
and  us  al  grace  to  leve  in  peas.  Wretyn  on  Sent  Gyles  Evyn,^ 
at  ix.  of  the  belle  at  nyght. 

Robyn  came  home  yester  evyn,  and  he  brought  me  nowther 
writyng  from  you,  ner  good  answer  of  this  mater,  which  grevyth 
me  right  ill  that  I  have  sent  you  so  many  messangers,  and  have 
so  febill  answers  ageyn. 

Be  your  Moder. 


721 
MARGARET  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON^ 

IGRETE  zowwel,  and  send  zow  Godds  blyssyng  and  myn,  1469 
letyng  zow  wete  that  on  Thurysday  last  was  my  moder 
_  and  I  wer  with  my  Lord  of  Norwych,^  and  desyerd  hym 
that  he  woold  no  mor  do  in  the  mater  towscheyng  zowr  syster, 
tyl  that  ze  and  my  brother  and  other  that  wern  executors  to 
zowr  fader  mythe  beyn  her  to  geder,  for  they  had  the  rule  of 
her  as  weel  as  I ;  and  he  sayde  playnly  that  he  had  be  requeryd 
so  oftyn  for  to  exameyn  her,  that  he  mythe  not  nor  woold  no 
longar  delay  yt,  and  schargyd  me,  in  peyn  of  cursyng,  that  sche 
schuld  not  be  deferred,  but  that  she  xuld  a  per  beforn  hym  the 

1  St.  Giles'  Day  is  the  ist  September;  St.  Giles'  Eve  the  31st  August. 

2  [From  Fenn,  iv.  358.]  This  letter  has  reference  to  the  contract  of  marriage 
between  Richard  Calle  and  Margery  Paston  in  1469.  See  No.  710,  preceding.  The 
last  paragraph  seems  to  have  reference  to  the  propositions  mentioned  in  the  preceding 
letter.  3  Walter  Lyhert. 

37 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1469  nexte  day  ;  and  I  sayd  pleynly  that  I  woold  nowder  bryng  her 
nor  send  her  ;  and  than  he  sayd  that  he  woold  send  for  her 
hym  sylfe,  and  schargyd  that  she  schuld  be  at  her  lyberte  to 
cume  wan  he  sent  for  her  ;  and  he  seyd  be  hys  trowthe  that  he 
woold  be  as  sory  for  her  and  [//]  sche  ded  not  welle,  as  he  wold 
be  and  sche  wer  ryth  ner  of  hys  kyn,  bothe  for  my  moder  ys 
sake  and  myn,  and  other  of  her  frendds,  for  he  woost  welle 
that  her  demenyng  had  stekyd  soor  at  our  harts. 

My  moder  and  I  in  formyd  hym  that  we  kowd  never 
onderstond  be  her  sayyng,  be  no  language  that  ever  sche  had 
to  hym,  that  neyther  of  hem  wer  bownd  to  other,  but  that  they 
myth  schese  bothe.  Than  he  seyd  that  he  woold  sey  to  her  as 
wele  as  he  kowde,  before  that  he  exameynd  her  ;  and  so  that 
was  told  me  be  dyverse  persones  that  he  ded  as  welle  and  as 
pleynly  as  sche  had  be  rythe  ner  to  hym,  wych  wer  to  long  to 
wrythe  at  thys  tyme  :  her  aftyr  ye  xalle  wete,  and  hoo  wer 
laberers  ther  in.  The  schanseler  ^  was  not  so  gylty  her  in  as  I 
wend  he  had  ben. 

On  Fryday  the  Bysschope  he  sent  for  her  be  Asschefeld 
and  other  that  arn  ryth  sory  of  her  demenyng.  And  the 
Bysschop  seyd  to  her  ryth  pleynly,  and  put  her  in  remem- 
berawns  how  she  was  born,  wat  kyn  and  frendds  that  sche  had, 
and  xuld  have  mo  yf  sche  wer  rulyd  and  gydyd  aftyr  hem  ; 
and  yf  she  ded  not,  wat  rebuke,  and  schame,  and  los  yt  xuld 
be  to  her,  yf  sche  wer  not  gydyd  be  them,  and  cause  of  for- 
sakyng  of  her  for  any  good,  or  helpe,  or  kownfort  that  sche 
xuld  have  of  hem  ;  and  seyd  that  he  had  hard  sey,  that  sche 
loved  schecheon  [such  one']  that  her  frend[es]  wer  not  plesyd 
with  that  sche  xuld  have,  and  therfor  he  had  her  be  ryth  weel 
avysyd  how  sche  ded,  and  seyd  that  he  woold  undyrstand  the 
woords  that  sche  had  seyd  to  hym,  wheyther  that  mad  matri- 
mony or  not.  And  sche  rehersyd  wat  sche  had  seyd,  and  seyd, 
yf  thoo  wordds  mad  yt  not  suher,  she  seyd  boldly  that  sche 
wold  make  that  suerher  or  than  sche  went  thens,  for  sche  seyd 

1  Fenn  thinks  this  was  Dr.  John  Saresson,  otherwise  Wigenhale,  who,  he  tells  us, 
was  Chancellor  to  the  Bishop  from  1435  to  147 1,  and  had  other  Church  preferment  in 
the  Diocese.  But  I  am  a  little  doubtful  whether  he  lived  so  long,  as  it  does  not  appear 
that  he  kept  any  other  of  his  preferments  to  so  late  a  date.  W^e  know  that  Dr.  William 
Pykenham  was  Chancellor  in  147 1. 

38 


EDWARD  IV 

sche  thowgthe  in  her  conschens  sche  was  bownd,  wat  so  ever  the     1469 
wordds  wern.    Thes  leud  wordds  greveth  me  and  her  grandam 
as  myche  as  alle  the  remnawnte.     And  than  the  Bysschop  and 
the  Schawnseler  bothe  seyd  that  ther  was  neyther  I  ner  no 
frend  of  hers  wold  resey ve  [her] . 

And  than  Calle  was  exameynd  aparte  be  hym  sylfe,  that  her 
wordds  and  hys  acordyd,  and  the  tyme,  and  wher  yt  xuld  a  be 
don.  And  than  the  Bysschop  sayd  that  he  supposyd  that  ther 
xuld  be  fownd  other  thynggs  ageyns  hym  that  mythe  cause  the 
lettyng  ther  of ;  and  ther  for  he  say  he  wold  not  be  to  hasty  to 
geve  sentens  ther  upon,  and  sayd  that  he  wold  geve  overe  day 
tyl  the  Wednsday  or  Thursday  aftyr  Mykylmes,  and  so  yt  tys 
delayyd.  They  woold  an  had  her  wyl  performyd  in  haste, 
but  the  Bysschope  seyd  he  woold  non  other  wyse  than  he  had 
seyd. 

I  was  with  my  moder  at  her  plase  whan  sche  was  exameynd, 
and  wan  I  hard  sey  what  her  demenyng  was,  I  schargyd  my 
servaunts  that  sche  xuld  not  be  reseyved  in  my  hows.  I  had 
zeve  hir  warnyng,  sche  mythe  a  be  war  a  for,  yf  sche  had  a  be 
grasyows ;  and  I  sent  to  on  or  ij.  mor  that  they  xuld  not 
reseyve  her  yf  sche  cam  ;  sche  was  browthe  a  geyn  to  my  place 
for  to  a  be  reseyved,  and  Sir  Jamys  ^  tolde  them  that  browthe 
her  that  I  had  schargyd  hem  alle  and  sche  xuld  not  be  reseyved  ; 
and  soo  my  Lord  of  Norwych  hath  set  her  at  Roger  Bests,  to 
be  ther  tyle  the  day  befor  sayd,  God  knowyth  fule  evel  ageyn 
hys  wyle  and  hys  wyvys,  yf  they  durst  do  other  wyse.  I  am 
sory  that  they  arn  a  cumyrd  with  her,  but  zet  I  am  better 
payed  that  sche  isther  for  the  whyle,  that  sche  had  ben  in  other 
place  be  cause  of  the  sadnes  and  good  dysposysion  of  hys  sylfe 
and  hys  wyfe,  for  sche  xal  not  be  sou'd  [suffered .?]  ther  to  pleye 
the  brethele."  I  pray  zow  and  requer  zow  that  ye  take  yt  not 
pensyly,  for  I  wot  wele  yt  gothe  ryth  ner  zowr  hart,  and  so 
doth  yt  to  myn  and  to  other  ;  but  remembyr  zow,  and  so  do 
I,  that  we  have  lost  of  her  but  a  brethele,^  and  set  yt  the  les  to 
hart,  for  and  sche  had  be  good,  wherso  ever  sche  had  be,  yt 
xuld  not  aben  as  it  is,  for  and  he  wer  ded  at  thys  owyr,  she 

^  Sir  James  Gloys. 

*  Brethele  or  brethelyng  signified  a  worthless  person. 

'}^9 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1 469  xuld  never  be  at  myn  hart  as  sche  was.  As  for  the  devors 
\_divorce]  that  ze  write  to  me  of,  I  supose  wat  ze  ment,  but  I 
scharge  zow  upon  my  blyssyng  that  ze  do  not,  ner  cause  non 
other  to  do,  that  xuld  offend  God  and  zour  conschens,  for  and 
ze  do,  or  cause  for  to  be  do,  God  wul  take  vengawns  ther  upon, 
[and]  ye  xuld  put  zour  sylfe  and  other  in  gret  joparte ;  for 
wettyt  wele,  sche  xal  ful  sor  repent  her  leudnes  her  aftyr,  and 
I  pray  God  sche  mute  soo.  I  pray  zow  for  myn  hard  ys  hese 
[heart's  ease\  be  ze  of  a  good  cownfort  in  alle  thynggs  ;  I  trust 
God  xal  helpe  ryth  wele,  and  I  pray  God  so  do  in  alle  our 
maters.  I  wuld  ze  toke  hed  yf  ther  weher  any  labor  mad  in 
the  kort  of  Cawntrybery  for  the  leud  mater  forsayd. 

But  yf  [i.e.  unless]  the  Duke  ^  be  purveyd  for,  he  and  hys 
wyse  kow[n]sel  xalle  lefe  thys  cuntre  ;  yt  is  told  me  that  he 
seythe  that  he  wul  not  spar  to  do  that  he  is  purposyd,  for  no 
Duke  in  Ynglond.     God  helpe  at  nede. 


722 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  MASTER  WRITTILL2 

To  Mastyr  Wryttyll. 

[SEPT.]  ]iy|' ASTER  WRYTTYLL,  I  recomande  me  to  yow, 
\/|  besechyng  yow  hertely,  as  myn  holl  trust  is  in  yow, 
that  ye  doo  yowr  devoyr  to  contynew  trews  tyll 
Fryday  or  Saturday  in  the  mornyng,  by  whych  tyme  I  hope 
the  massanger  shall  come,  and  that  ye  be  not  dryven  to  take 
an  appoyntment  if  ye  kan  undrestand  by  any  lyklyed  that  itt 
be  able  to  be  abydyn  and  recystyd,  and  that  ye  fele  my 
brotherys  dysposycion  therin,  as  my  trust  is  in  yow,  prayng 
yow  to  remembre  that  it  restythe,  as  God  helpe  me,  on  all  my 
well.      For   as  God   helpe   me,   I   hadd   levyr   the   place  wer 

1  The  Duke  of  Norfolk. 

2  [From  Fenn,  iv.  370.]  Master  Writtill,  to  whom  this  and  the  next  letter  are 
addressed,  is  mentioned  later  as  a  servant  of  the  Duke  of  Clarence,  by  whose  means 
Sir  John  was  endeavouring  to  arrange  a  suspension  of  hostilities  with  the  Duke  of 
Norfolk,  who  was  now  besieging  Caister. 

40 


EDWARD  IV 

brennyd,  my  brother  and  servants  savyd,  than  the  best  I4"9 
appoyntment  that  evyr  ye  and  I  comonyd  of  scholde  be  my  L^'^'"^-] 
goode  wyll  be  takyn,  if  this  massage  from  the  Kynge  may 
reskwe  it.  And  if  it  be  so,  that  my  Lorde  be  remevyd  by 
the  Kynges  comandement,  whyche  restythe  with  hys  honour,  I 
may  in  tyme  to  kome  do  hym  servyse,  as  schall  recompence 
any  grodge  or  dysplesur  that  he  evyr  had,  or  hathe  to  me  or 
myn  ;  and  ye,  if  it  the  rather  by  your  wysdam  and  polesye  the 
moene  above  wry  ten  may  be  hadd,  schall  be  as  sewr  of  the 
servyce  of  my  trewe  brother  and  servantys,  and  me,  as  ye  kan 
devyse  by  my  trowthe  ;  for  in  goode  feythe  thys  mater  stykyth 
mor  nyghe  myn  hart  and  me  than  I  kan  wryght  on  to  yow,  and 
to  my  brother  and  servaunts  mor  ner  than  as  God  knowyth 
they  wot  off.  Wherfor,  Master  Wryttyll,  all  owre  welfare 
restyth  in  yow,  besechyng  yow  to  remembre  it.  For  thys 
mater  is  to  all  usse  eyther  makyng  or  marryng. 

Item,  asfor  Arblaster  or  Lovell,  I  kan  not  thynke  that 
they  or  any  of  them  may  be  with  yow.  Wherfor  in  yow  is 
all,  and  God  have  yow  in  kepyng. 

Wretyn  at  London,  the  day  next  affor  yowr  departyng. 
I  schall  sende  yow  mor  knowleche  to  morrow,  with  Godds 
grace.  Yowrs,  John  Paston,  K. 


SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  MASTER  WRITTILL^ 

RYGHT  wershypfuU  syr,  I  recomaund  me  to  you,  thank-  sept.  10 
yng  you  of  your  grete  labour  whych  I  have  nozt  as 
yet,  but  I  shall  deserve  to  my  power  ;  and  ferther- 
more  lyke  yow  to  wyte  that  I  have  thoght  ryght  long  after 
you ;  nevyrthelesse  I  remember  well  that  ye  delt  wythe 
ryght  delayous  peple.  My  Lord  Archbyshop  and  other  of 
my  Lords,  and  I,  dempte  by  cawse  of  your  long  tarryng, 
that   by   youre   sad    dyscrescyon   all  hadde  ben   sett   thorow. 

*  [From  Fenn,  iv.  372.]    See  preliminary  note  to  last  letter.    We  have  adopted  a 
different  punctuation  from  that  of  Fenn  in  some  parts  of  this  letter. 

41 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1469  Neverthelesse  I  understend  by  your  wrytyng  that  my  Lord 
SEPT.  10  of  Norffolks  concell  thynketh  that  hys  entent,  whych  ye 
sertefyed  me  by  your  wrytyng,  sholde  be  more  to  hys 
wyrshep  than  the  appoyntements  and  rewU  made  by  the 
Lords  of  the  Kyngs  concell  whych  be  to  my  seyd  Lord  of 
NorfFolk  ner  kyne  [near  kin\  ;  whych  appoyntements  sythen 
yourr  departyng  hath  be  largely  remembryd  amongs  the  seyd 
Lords  here,  thynkyng  it  in  hem  self  so  honorabyll  to  my 
Lord  of  NorfFolk,  that  ther  shuld  non  of  my  Lords  concell 
well  avysed  mevyd  to  the  contrary. 

Jamys  Hobard^  was  sent  fro  my  [Lord]  of  Norffolk 
heder,  and  spake  with  my  Lord  Archbyshop,^  and  answer 
he  had  of  my  seyd  Lord ;  and  howe  my  Lord  tendryd  the 
mater  yet  and  wyll  I  trowe  he  have  told  you,  and  yf  he  have 
not,  the  brynger  her  of  schall  informe  you ;  and  he  broght 
thys  same  appoyntement  from  my  Lord,  that  my  Lord  was 
well  agryed  that  I  shulde  ocupye.  For  my  parte,  iff  I  shud 
take  no  other  apoyntement  but  acordyng  to  your  letter,  it 
wer  hard  for  me  and  for  my  tytell  to  putte  my  Lord  in  that 
possessyon  ;  for  ther  ys  thyngs  in  erthe  [uneath,  i.e.  scarcely] 
to  myn  esse  in  your  letter,  gode  for  me  in  that  appoyntement, 
savyng  the  suerty  of  my  brothers  lyffe  and  my  servants, 
whych  ye  thynke  dowtefuU  yf  so  be  that  thay  lakke  stuff, 
shotte,  and  vytayll ;  mervaylyng  sore,  and  thynk  it  im- 
possybell  in  thys  shorte  season,  or  in  iiij.  tyme  the  season 
heder  towards,  that  thay  shuld  lakk  other  [either\  with  owte 
it  soo  be  that  m.y  Lords  men  have  enterd  owght  the  place,  and 
so  had  ther  stuffe  from  hem,  whych  I  cannot  thynk.  Also,  sir, 
for  \_fore'\  the  tyme  of  your  comyng  to  my  Lord  of  Norffolk, 
servaunts  of  [my  Lords  wer  with]^  my  moder  at  Norwych, 
mevyng  to  send  to  my  brother  hyr  sone,  to  delyver  the  place 
under  such  a  forme  as  youre  lettere  specefyeth,  and  so  I 
cannot  understand  what  regard  my  Lords  concell  takyth  to 
my  Lords  letter,  and  to  your  labour  in  thys  behalf,  but  that 

^  This   most   probably  was   James  Hobart,  who,  in   14.78,  was  Lent-Reader  at 
Lincoln's  Inn,  and  in  1487  Attorney-General. — F. 

2  George  Neville,  Archbishop  of  York. 

3  The  original  ms.  was  indistinct  in  these  places. 

42 


EDWARD  IV 

they  offeryd  as  largely  afore.  Ze  wryteth  in  your  letter  that  14^9 
ye  durst  not  passe  your  credens  ;  please  you  to  remember  that  ^^^'^-  ^^ 
seyd  your  credens  affore  the  Lords  was  ryght  large,  and  as 
large  as  myght  well  be  in  thys  mater,  both  to  my  Lords  concell 
of  NorfFolk  to  withdrawe  the  seege,  with  moor  other  mater  as 
ye  knowe ;  and  to  the  Justice  of  the  Peas  and  to  the  ShyryfF 
and  hys  offycers,  your  awtoryte  was  grete  inow  to  iche  of  them. 

Wherfor,  Mayster  Wretell,  I  never  for  this,  nere  zet  wyll, 
take  appoyntement  in  thys  mater,  but  as  my  Lords  wyll  and 
my  Lord  Archbyshop,  whych,  as  well  as  I  my  self,  have  holy 
putte  our  tryst  to  youre  dyscrete  dyreccyon  ;  and  my  seyd 
Lord  sythen  youre  departer,  zour  zoyng,^  thynkyng  you  alls 
mete  a  man  in  executyng  ther  comaundement  as  cowde  be 
chosyn.  Neverthelesse  for  awnswer  to  you  at  thys  season, 
my  Lord  Archbyshop  ys  north  wards  towards  the  Kyng  ; 
how  be  it,  it  ys  seyd,  uppon  a  metyng  with  my  Lord  of 
Clarens,  my  Lord  shuld  retourne  a  yen  ;  and  as  zester  evyn 
he  send  a  servaunt  of  hys  to  me,  wenyng  to  hys  Lordship  that 
Sir  Humfray  ^  and  ye  wer  in  Caster  as  was  appoynted,  and  ye 
shuld  send  to  hys  Lordshyp  answer  of  the  gydyng  ther  by 
wrytyng,  comaundyng  me  that  yff  any  such  wrytyngs  cam 
from  you,  yf  hys  Lordshyp  wer  not  past  xx.  myle  fr[om 
Lond]on,^  to  com  to  hys  Lordshyp  with  the  same.  Under- 
standyng  for  sertayn  that  he  ys  nott  yet  so  ferr,  wherfor  I 
will  in  althe  hast  possybell  ryde  nygt  and  day  till  I  see  hys 
Lordshyp,  and  after  comunicacyon  had  with  hys  Lordshyp,  as 
sone  as  ys  possybell  that  a  man  may  go  be  twext,  ye  shall  have 
an  answer  of  hys  dysposicyon  ;  for  hys  intres  is  such  that,  as 
I  have  wryten,  I  shall  never  do  therin  withoute  hym,  as  my 
cosyn,  brynger  herof,  more  playnly  shall  enforme  you  ;  for  I 
canne  thynke  ryght  well,  that  as  ze  wryteth  to  me,  my  broder 
wyll  not  delyver  the  place  to  non  erthly  person,  but  yf  he  see 
wrytyng  fro  my  Lord. 

It   semyt   be   yowr   wrytyng   that   my  Lord  of   Norffolk 

1  The  words  '  zour  zoyng '  (your  going)  seem  to  be  redundant. 

2  Sir  Humphrey  Talbot  was  a  Captain  at  this  siege,  under  the  Duke  of  Norfolk. 
— F. 

2  The  original  MS.  was  indistinct  in  these  places. 

43 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1469  conseyll  intende  not  that  my  Lord  Archbyshop  shuld  dele  in 
SEPT.  10  thys  mater,  for  he  ys  not  named  in  your  letter,  wherof  I 
mervayle ;  for  it  was  movyd  to  you  at  your  departyng  hens, 
the  Kyngs  concell  shuld  have  take  dyreccyon  in  thys  mater, 
or  els  my  Lord  Cardenall,^  my  Lord  of  Clarens,  my  Lord 
Archbyshop,  and  my  Lord  of  Essex,^  &c.  Neverthelesse, 
Mayster  Wryttyll,  all  profytht,  maner,  or  lyflod,  leyd  apart, 
if  it  be  so  that  thorow  reklesnese  my  brother  and  servaunts 
be  in  such  joperte  as  ye  have  wryten  to  me  (whych  shold  be 
half  impossybell  in  my  mynd  that  thay  shold  myssuse  so 
mech  stuff  in  iiij.  tymes  the  space),  and  that  ye  have  evident 
knowlych  by  my  seyd  brother  hym  self  therof,  I  woll  praye 
yow  to  se  hyni  and  them  in  suerte  of  ther  lyfiys,  what  so  ever 
shold  fall  of  the  lyfBode;  how  be  it  I  wold  not  that  my 
brother  and  servaunts  shold  gyff  upp  the  place  not  for  a  mVi., 
yf  thay  myght  in  any  wyse  kepe  it  and  save  ther  lyves.  And 
therfor,  at  the  reverens  of  God,  sycht  it  ys  so,  that  my  Lord 
Archbyshop  and  my  Lords  all,  and  I,  have  putte  our  trust 
in  you,  that  ye  wyll  do  your  devoyer  to  have  the  verrey 
knowlech  of  my  brother  hymself,  and  not  of  my  Lords  men, 
wheder  he  stante  in  such  jopertye  as  your  letter  specefyeth  or 
net,  for  I  dowte  not  uppon  the  syzth  of  thys  letter,  and  of  the 
letter  that  ye  had  before,  that  my  brother  will  put  no  mystrust 
in  you,  consyderyng  that  he  knowyth  that  ye  com  from  my 
Lords,  and  my  Lord  Archbyshop,  and  have  my  wrytyng  ;  and 
as  for  my  Lord  Archbyshop  wrytyng  and  aunswere,  such  as 
it  shalbe,  ye  shall  have  it  in  all  the  haste  possybell.  But  I 
thynke  veryly  that  my  Lord  eschewyth  to  telle  you  any 
thyng  without  that  he  myght  speke  with  you  allone,  and  me 
thynketh  veryly  that  thay  ought  not  to  lette  [hinder]  you  to 
speke  with  hym  allone,  consyderyng  that  ye  have  auctoryte 
and  wrytyng  from  the  Lords  so  to  do.  And  as  for  the 
justificacyon  of  entryng  the  place,  and  sege  layng  to  [the 
same]  ^  and  the  comaundement  of  the  Justice  of  the  Pease 
and  the  Sherewe  to  assyste  my  Lord  in  thys  gydyng,  1  wote 

'  Thomas  Bourchier,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and  Lord  Cardinal. 

2  Henry  Bourchier,  Earl  of  Essex. 

3  Here  the  original  MS.  was  indistinct. 

44 


EDWARD  IV 

ye  understond  that  the  Lords  knowe  all  that  mater,  and  ye     1469 
herd  it  comened,  and  how  thay  toke  it  in  ther  consayts.  sept.  10 

Ther  ys  no  more,  Mayster  Wryttell,  but  I  commyth  all 
thys  wrytyng  unto  your  dyscrescyon;  and  as  ye  thynk  best 
acordyng  to  such  menys  desyre  as  have  entretyd  you  therin, 
and  for  my  moyst  avayle,  I  pray  you,  sir,  soo  doo,  and  I  shall 
se  un  to  your  besynes  and  labour,  that  ye  shall  have  cause  to 
do  for  me  in  tyme  comyng,  and  as  the  brynger  herof  shall  tell 
you.     And  I  pray  God  have  you  in  Hys  kepyng. 

Wryten  at  London,  the  x.  day  of  Septembr. 
By  your  frend  for  ever, 

John  Paston,  K. 


MARGARET  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 

IGRETE  you  wele,  letyng  you  wete  that  your  brother  sept.  12 
and  his  felesshep  stand  in  grete  joperte  at  Cayster, 
and  lakke  vetayll ;  and  Dawbeney  ^  and  Berney  ^  be 
dedde,  and  diverse  other  gretly  hurt ;  and  they  fayll  gunne- 
powder  and  arrowes,  and  the  place  sore  brokyn  with  gonnes 
of  the  toder  parte,  so  that,  but  thei  have  hasty  help,  thei  be 
like  to  lese  bothe  ther  lyfes  and  the  place,  to  the  grettest 
rebuke  to  you  that  ever  came  to  any  jentilman,  for  every  man 
in  this  countre  marvaylleth  gretly  that  ye  suffre  them  to  be  so 
longe  in  so  gret  joperte  with  ought  help  or  other  remedy. 
The  Duke  hathe  be  more  fervently  set  therup  on,  and  more 

1  [From  Fenn,  iv.  382.]  This  and  the  other  letters  relating  to  the  siege  of 
Caister  are  all  rendered  certain  in  point  of  date  by  the  documents  touching  its 
surrender  on  the  26th  September. 

2  John  Dawbeney,  Esq. 

3  Osbert  Berney,  the  other  person  here  mentioned  as  dead,  was  not  killed  at  the 
siege.  He  survived,  and  died  without  issue  some  years  after,  when  he  was  buried  in 
Bradeston  Church  in  Norfolk,  there  being  a  brass  plate  in  the  chancel  having  the 
following  inscription  to  his  memory: — *■  Hie  jacet  Osbertus  filius  J  oh.  Berney,  Armig. 
de  Redeham  Dni.  et  de  Brayston.^  He  was  the  son  of  John  Berney,  Esq.,  by  Catherine, 
daughter  of  Osbert  Mundeford  of  Hockwell,  Esq. — F. 

45 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1469  cruell,  sith  that  Wretyll,  my  Lord  of  Claraunce  man,  was 
SEPT.  12  ther,  than  he  was  befor,  and  he  hath  sent  for  all  his  tenaunts 
from  every  place,  and  other,  to  be  ther  at  Cayster  at  Thorys- 
day  next  comyng,  that  ther  is  than  like  to  be  the  grettest 
multitude  of  pepill  that  came  ther  yet.  And  thei  purpose 
them  to  make  a  gret  assaught — for  thei  have  sent  for  gannes 
[^«?/j]  to  Lynne  and  other  place  be  the  seeys  syde — that,  with 
ther  gret  multitude  of  gannes,  with  other  shoot  and  ordy- 
naunce,  ther  shall  no  man  dar  appere  in  the  place.  Thei  shall 
hold  them  so  besy  with  ther  gret  pepill,  that  it  shall  not  lye  in 
their  pore  within  to  hold  it  ageyn  them  with  ought  God  help 
them,  or  have  hasty  socour  from  you. 

Therfor,  as  ye  wull  have  my  blyssyng,  I  charge  you  and 
require  you  that  ye  se  your  brother  be  holpyn  in  hast.  And 
if  ye  can  have  nonmeane,  rather  desire  writyng  fro  my  Lord 
of  Clarens,  if  he  be  at  London,  or  ell[es]  of  my  Lord  Arche- 
busshop  of  York,  to  the  Duke  of  NorfFolk,  that  he  wull 
graunte  them  that  be  in  the  place  her  lyfes  and  ther  goodes  ; 
and  in  eschewyng  of  insurreccions  with  other  in  convenyens 
that  be  like  to  growe  within  the  shire  of  Norffolk,  this 
trobelows  werd  [world],  be  cause  of  such  conventicles  and 
gaderyngs  within  the  seid  shire  for  cause  of  the  seid  place, 
thei  shall  sufFre  hym  to  entre  up  on  such  appoyntment,  or 
other  like  takyn  be  the  advyse  of  your  councell  ther  at 
London,  if  ye  thynk  this  be  not  good,  till  the  law  hath 
determyned  otherwyse;  and  lete  hym  write  a  nother  letter 
to  your  brother  to  deliver  the  place  up  on  the  same  appoynt- 
ment. And  if  ye  think,  as  I  can  suppose,  that  the  Duke  of 
NorfFolk  wull  not  aggre  to  this,  be  cause  he  graunted  this 
aforn,  and  thei  in  the  place  wuld  not  accept  it,  than  I  wuld 
the  seid  massanger  shuld  with  the  seid  letters  bryng  fro  the 
seid  Lord  of  Clarence,  or  ell[es]  my  Lord  Archebusshop,  to 
my  Lord  of  Oxenford,  other  letters  to  rescue  them  forth 
with,  thowghe  the  seid  Erie  of  Oxenford  shuld  have  the 
place  duryng  his  lyfe  for  his  labour.  Spare  not  this  to  be 
don  in  hast,  if  ye  wull  have  ther  lyves,  and  be  sett  by  in 
NorfFolk,  though  ye  shuld  leys  the  best  maner  of  all  for  the 
rescuse.     I  had  lever  ye  last  the  lyfFelode  than  ther  lyfes.     Ye 

46 


EDWARD  IV 

must  gete  a  massanger  of  the  Lords  or  sume  other  notabill     1469 
man  to  bryng  ther  letters.  sivpt.  12 

Do  your  devoir  now,  and  lete  me  send  you  no  mor 
massangers  for  this  maters ;  but  send  me  be  the  berer  her  of 
more  certeyn  comfort  than  ye  have  do  be  all  other  that  I  have 
sent  be  for.  In  any  wyse,  lete  the  letters  that  shall  come  to 
the  Erie  of  Oxen  ford  comyn  with  the  letters  that  shall  comyn 
to  the  Duke  of  Norffolk,  that  if  he  wull  not  aggree  to  the  ton, 
that  ye  may  have  redy  your  rescuse  that  it  nede  no  mor  to 
send  therfor.     God  kepe  you. 

Wretyn  the  Tuesday  next  befor  Holy  Rood  Day,  in  hast. 

Be  your  Moder, 


SIR  JOHN  P ASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON^ 

MOODR,  uppon  Saterday  last  was,  Dawbeney  and  sept.  15 
Bernay  wer  on  lyve  and  mery,  and  I  suppose  ther 
com  no  man  owt  of  the  place  to  yow  syn  that 
tyme  that  cowde  have  asserteynyd  to  yow  of  ther  dethys. 
And  as  towchyng  the  fyrsenesse  of  the  Duke  or  of  hys 
peple  schewyd  syn  that  tyme  that  Wryttel  departyd,  I  trowe 
it  was  concludyd  that  trews  and  abstynence  of  werre  scholde 
be  hadd  er  he  departyd,  whych  shalle  dewr  tyl  Monday 
next  comyng  ;  and  by  that  tyme  I  trow  that  trews  shall  be 
takyn  tyll  that  day  vij.  nyght  aftr,  by  whych  tyme  I  hope  of 
a  goode  dyreccion  schall  be  hadde. 

And  wher  as  ye  wryght  to  me  that  I  scholde  sewe  for 
letteris  from  my  Lordys  of  Clarans  and  Yorke,  they  be  not 
her,  and  if  they  wrot  to  hym  as  they  have  don  ij.  tymes,  I 
trow  it  wolde  nat  advayle  ;  and  as  for  to  labor  thois  letteris 
and  the  rescu  to  gedre,  they  ben  ij.  sendry  thyngys,  for  when 
the  rescu  is  redy,  that  the  cost  ther  of  is  don.  For  if  I  be 
drevyn  therto  to  rescu  it  er  they  com  ther  that  scholde  do  it, 
it  shall  cost  a  m'.  escuys,  and  as  meche  after,  whyh  wey  wer 

*  [From  Fenn,  iv.  386.]     This  letter  was  clearly  written  in  reply  to  the  last. 

47 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1469    harde  for  me  to   take,  whyll   that  1   maye  do  it   otherwise  ; 
SEPT.  15   but  as  to  sey  that  they  schall  be  rescuyd  if  ail  the  lands  that 
I  have  in  Ingelond  and  frendys  maye  do  it,  they  shall,  and 
God  be  frendly,  and  that  as  schertly  as  it  may  goodlely  and 
wele  be  brout  abut.     And  the  grettest  defawt  erthly  is  mony 
and  som  frendys  and  neyborys  to  helpe  ;   wherfor  I  beseche 
yow  to  sende  me  comfort  with  what  money  ye   coude   fynde 
the  menys  to  get  or  chevysche  uppon  suerte  sufficient,  er  uppon 
lyflod    to    be   inmorgage    er    yit    solde,    and    what    peple    by 
lyklyed  yowr  frendys  and  myn  kowde  make  uppon  a  schort 
warnyng,  and  to  send  me  worde  in  all  the  hast  as  it  is  need- 
full.     But,  moodre,  I  fele  by  yowr  wryghtyng  that  ye  deme 
in  me  I   scholde  not  do  my  devyr  withowt  ye  wrot  to  me 
som  hevye  tydyngs  ;   and,  modre,  if  I  had  nede  to  be  qwyk- 
ynyd  with  a  letter  in  thys  nede,  I  wer  of  my  selfe  to  slawe 
\_too  slow]  a  felaw  ;  but,  moodre,  I  ensur  yow  that  I  have  herde 
X.  tymes  werse  tydyngs  syn  the  assege  by  gan  than  any  letter 
that  ye  wrot  to  me,  and  somtyme  I  have  herde  ryght  goode 
tydyngs  both.       But   thys   I   ensure  yow  that   they  that    be 
within   have  no  werse  reste   than    I    have,   ner    castyth    mor 
jupperte  ;  but  whethyr  I  had  goode  tydyngys  er  ill,  I  take 
Gode  to  wittnesse  that  I  have  don  my  devoyr  as  I  wolde  be 
don   for  in  case  lyke,  and  schall  doo  tyll  ther   be  an   ende 
of  it. 

I  have  sent  to  the  Kynge  to  Yorke,  and  to  the  Lordys, 
and  hope  to  have  ansswer  from  them  by  Wednysday  at  the 
ferthest,  and  after  that  answer  shall  I  be  rewlyd,  and  than  send 
yow  word,  for  tyll  that  tyme  kan  I  take  non  dyreccion.  And 
to  encomfort  yow,  dy[s]peyre  yow  not  for  lak  of  vytayle  ner 
of  gonne  powder,  ner  be  natt  to  hevy  ner  to  mery  therfor  ; 
for  and  hevynesse  or  sorow  wolde  have  be  the  remedy  ther  of, 
I  knew  nevyr  mater  in  my  lyfe  that  I  kowde  have  ben  so  hevy 
or  sory  for,  and  with  Goddys  grace  it  schall  be  remedved  well 
inow  ;  for  by  my  trowthe  I  hadde  lever  lose  the  maner  of 
Caister  than  the  symplest  mannys  lyfe  therin,  if  that  may  be 
hys  saveacion.  Wherfor  I  beseche  yow  to  sende  me  worde 
wat  mony  and  men  ye  thynke  that  I  am  lyke  to  get  in  that 
contre  ;  for  the  hasty  purchace  of  mony  and  men  schall  be  the 
48 


EDWARD  IV 

getyng  and  rescu  of  it,  and  the  sauevacion  of  most  mennys     1469 
lyfys,  if  we  take  that  weye,  sept,  i  5 

Also  thys  daye  I  porpose  to  sende  to  Yorke  to  the  Kyng 
for  a  thyng,  whych  same  only  maye  by  lyklyod  be  the  savacion 
of  all.  Ye  must  remembre  that  the  rescue  of  it  is  the  last 
remedy  of  all,  and  how  it  is  nat  easy  to  get  ;  and  also  ye  sende 
me  worde  that  I  scholde  nat  kome  hom  withowt  that  I  kome 
stronke.  But  if  I  had  hadd  on  other  stronge  place  in  Norfolke 
to  have  comen  to,  thowe  I  have  browt  ryght  fewe  with  me,  I 
scholde,  with  Godds  grace,  have  rescued  it  by  thys  tyme,  er 
ellys  he  scholde  have  ben  fayne  to  have  besegyd  bothe  placys 
or  yit,  and  the  Duke  had  not  kept  Yarmoth  owthe.  But, 
mother,  I  beseche  yow  sende  me  som  mony,  for  by  my  trowth 
I  have  but  xs.  I  ^  wot  not  wher  to  have  mor,  and  moreovyr  I 
have  ben  x.  tymes  in  lyke  case  or  werse  within  thys  x.  wekys. 
I  sent  to  Rychard  Call  for  mony,  but  he  sendyth  me  non. 

I  beseche  yow  to  gyde  the  evydence  that  Pekok  can  tell 
yow  of,  and  to  se  it  safFe  ;  for  it  is  tolde  me  that  Richard  Call 
hath  hadd  right  large  langage  of  them.  I  wolde  nat  they  com 
in  hys  fyngrys.  I  have  no  worde  from  yow  of  them,  ner 
whether  ye  have  yit  in  yowr  kepyng  the  evydence  of  Est 
Bekham  owt  of  hys  handys,  ner  whethyr  ye  have  sent  to  my 
manerys  that  they  schold  not  paye  hym  no  mor  mony  or  not. 
Also  that  it  like  yow  to  geve  credence  to  Robyn  in  other 
thyngs. 

Wret  the  Fryday  next  after  Holy  Roode  Day. 

John  Paston,  K. 

^  /.     The  right-hand  copy  in  modern  spelling  reads  'and.' 


VOL.  V. D 


49 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


726 

WRITTILL  TO  THE  BESIEGERS  OF  CAISTERi 

Sir  John  Hevyngham^-  Th.  Wyngfeld^  Gilbert  Dehenham,*^  Wil. 
Brandon^  and  to  every  ch  of  them  severally  in  otheris  absence. 

1469  T  TTIT  is  so  that  accordyng  to  such  direccion  as  was  mevid 
[sept.]  I  I  to  be  desird  of  my  Lords  beyng  heer,  as  for  such  as 
heere  bee  they  marveil  gretly  therof,  thynkyng  and 
remembring  in  themself  that  such  ofFre  as  was  made  by  my 
credence  to  my  Lorde/  and  to  fore  you  reported,  shuld  have 
sownyd  more  to  his  pleasure  and  honour  than  this  his  desire. 
Nevirthelesse  my  Lords  thenke  where  as  they  wrote  and 
desirid  joyntly  that  such  credence  as  ye  remembre  myght  be 
observyd  and  taken,  and  by  you  refusid,  nowe  yif  they  shuld 
assent  to  the  desire  of  this  direccion,  hit  is  thought  in  them 
not  so  to  doo  ;  for  it  is  so  fortuned  that  dyvers  of  my  Lords, 
from  whome  I  brought  both  wrytyng  and  credence,  be  at  the 
Kyngs  high  commaundement  hastely  departed  unto  his  High- 
nesse,  trustyng  in  God  to  have  heeryng  in  brief  tyme  of  their 
hasty  ayen  comyng,  atte  which  tyme  my  Lords  that  heere  be, 
and  they  that  shal  come  ayen,  shal  comon  and  speke  to  gyder 
of  this  desire  and  direccion,  and  such  answere  as  they  geve  and 
make  shall  be  sent  unto  you  than  with  haste  possible.     Ovir 

1  [From  Fenn,  iv.  404..]  This  letter  is  anonymous,  but  was  evidently  written  by 
Writtill  during  his  negotiations  for  a  suspension  of  hostilities. 

2  Sir  John  Heveningham,  Knight  and  Banneret,  was  a  descendant  of  an  ancient 
family  situated  at  the  town  of  Heveningham,  in  SufFolk.  His  son  Thomas  became 
owner  of  the  estate  at  Ketteringham,  in  Norfolk,  where  this  family  continued  for 
several  generations. — F. 

3  Sir  Thomas  Wingfield  was  a  younger  son  either  of  Sir  Robert  or  Sir  John 
Wingfield  of  Letherlngham,  in  Suffolk. — F. 

*  Sir  Gilbert  Debenham,  Knight,  was  descended  of  an  ancient  and  knightly 
family  in  the  county  of  Suffolk. — F. 

s  Sir  William  Brandon  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Sir  Robert  Wingfield,  and 
was  ancestor  to  Charles  Brandon,  afterwards  Duke  of  Suffolk. — F. 

8  The  Duke  of  Norfolk. 

50 


EDWARD  IV 

this,  me  thenkith  for  your  excuse  of  burden  and  charge  such  1469 
as  I  hier  will  be  leid  unto  you  concernyng  the  grete  werks  that  [sept.] 
dailly  be  and  ar  at  the  maner  of  Castre,  yif  ye  thenk  that  God 
shuld  have  pleasir,  and  also  the  Kyng  oure  sovereign  Lorde, 
and  that  my  seide  Lords  shuld  thenk  in  you  gode  avise  or  sad, 
and  that  ye  entendid  to  avoide  the  sheddyng  of  Cristyn  blode 
and  the  destruccion  of  the  Kyngs  liege  people,  that  at  your 
politik  labour  and  wisedome  ye  myght  bryng  my  Lord  to 
th'abstynence  of  warre,  and  a  trieux  to  be  had  and  contynued 
unto  tyme  of  the  retourn  of  my  seid  Lords,  or  els  knowlege 
of  their  entent ;  certifieng  you  for  trouth  that  ther  be 
messengers  sent  unto  my  seid  Lords  with  lettrez  of  such 
answere  as  I  had  of  you  to  your  desire  to  gyder,  knowyng 
certeinly  that  ther  shal  be  hasty  relacion  of  ther  entents  in  the 
premisis,  which  answers  ye  shall  have  atte  ferthist  by  Monday 
Cometh  sevenyght.  Ferthirmore  lettyng  you  wit  that  I 
understond  for  certein  that  my  Lords  that  be  heere  eschewe, 
for  such  inconveniense  that  myght  fall,  to  conclude  any  answere 
by  them  self,  consideryng  that  my  credence  was  geven  by  all 
the  Lords ;  prayng  you,  as  shal  be  doon  to  the  continuaunce 
of  this  trieux  aforesaid,  that  I  may  be  acerteyned,  or  yif  at  this 
houre  ye  coude  yit  thenk  my  credence  resonable  and  honour- 
able to  be  accepted  and  taken,  sendith  me  woorde  in  wrytyng 
from  you  by  my  servant,  brynger  of  this,  al  delaies  leid  aparte. 
For  I  acertein  you,  as  he  that  owe  you  service,  I  was  and  yit 
am  gretly  blamed  for  my  long  tarying  with  you,  for  dyvers  of 
my  Lords  taried  heere  for  me,  by  th'assent  of  al  my  Lords, 
lenger  than  they  wold  have  don,  to  know  myn  answere  and 
guydyng  from  you. 

And  ovir  this  I  certyfie  you  that  ye  cannot  make  my  Lords 
heere  to  thenk  that  yif  ther  be  inconvenient  or  myshief, 
murdre,  or  manslauter  had  or  done,  but  and  your  wills  and 
entents  were  to  the  contrarye,  my  Lord  is  notid  so  well 
disposid  that,  with  oute  your  grete  abettement,  he  neither  will 
doo  nor  assent  to  non  such  thyng  ;  prayng  you  therfor,  as 
your  frende,  to  remembre  wele  your  self,  and  so  to  rule  you, 
as  my  Lords  may  have  in  tyme  to  come  knowlege  of  your 
more  sadd  disposicion  than  as  yit  I  feele  they  thenk  in  you. 

51 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1469  And  how  that  my  Lords  note  sum  of  you,  James  Hobert, 
[sept.]  beyng  of  my  Lords  counsel,  can  enforme  you  ;  wherefor  for 
Godds  sake  remembr  you,  and  delyver  my  servant,  and  yif  ye 
thenk  my  first  credence  or  this  advertisement  shal  be  taken  to 
effect,  than  I  pray  you  that  my  servaunt,  brynger  hereof,  may 
have  sure  condyte  to  speke  with  John  Paston,  and  to  report  to 
hym  these  direccions,  and  upon  that  to  delyver  hym  a  bill 
certlfyng  the  same. 


727 
WRITTILL  TO  THOMAS  WINGFIELDi 

MR.  WYNGFELD,  I  recomande  me  to  you.  Please 
you  to  wit  I  have  sent  a  lettre  joyntly  to  you  and  to 
al  my  Lordes  ^  counsel  ;  nevirtheles,  for  the  special 
favor  and  service  that  I  bere  and  owe  to  you,  I  write  to  you 
aparte,  praying  you  to  put  your  hasty  devoir  to  the  delyver- 
ans  of  my  servaunt,  with  th'answere  of  the  same  ;  and  ovir 
that  for  Goddis  sake  remember  you  hou  that  ye  stond  my 
Lordes  nygh  kynnesman,  and  by  whom  my  Lordes  wulle 
gretly  be  steerid,  that  ye  eschewe  and  avoide  to  be  non  of 
those  that  my  Lordes  here  thenk  shuld  set  or  cause  my  Lord 
to  do  thynges  otherwise  than  accordith  to  the  pleasir  of  my 
Lordes ;  for  it  is  so  that  there  be  dyvers  of  my  Lordes  counsel 
stond  in  hevy  report  of  my  Lordes,  of  which  I  wold  ye  were 
non ;  certifieng  you  that  I  know  so  ferre  that  yif  ye  any  thyng 
doo  in  this  mater  to  the  pleasir  of  my  Lordes,  it  will  neither 
be  unremembrid  ne  unrecompensid,  not  doutyng  but  that 
hereafter  to  have  a  large  thonk  of  you  for  this  my  counsel  ; 
praying  you  ferthermor  to  move  Sir  John  Hevyngham,  and 
such  as  ye  knowe  wele  disposid,  to  assist  you  in  this  ;  and  that 
this  bille  be  kept  secrete,  as  my  trust  is  in  you.  Wreten  at 
London. 

1  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  This  and  the  letter  following  are  corrected  drafts 
upon  the  same  paper,  and  both  evidently  written  at  the  same  time,  and  by  the  same 
writer,  as  the  last  letter, 

2  The  Duke  of  Norfolk's. 

5- 


EDWARD  IV 

728 

WRITTILL  TO  JOHN  PASTONi 

MR.  PASTON,  it  is  so  that  sith  tyme  I  spake  with  you 
I  sent  you  a  bill  which  concludith  an  abstinence  of 
werre  to  be  had  unto  Fryday  last  was,  trustyng  in 
that  season  that  by  the  menes  of  my  Lordes  heere  a  conclusion 
shal  be  taken  ;  lettyng  you  wit  that  before  my  comyng  hider 
certein  of  my  Lordes  were  departid  hens  towards  the  Kyng 
northwards.  And  for  asmich  as  I  cannot  in  this  season  have  no 
hasty  answere  of  such  lettrez  as  were  sent  unto  them  concern- 
yng  this  mater,  I  have  wretyn  by  the  meanes  of  my  Lordes 
heere  1  have  wretyn  a  lettre  to  my  Lordes  counsell  a  lettre,^ 
and  amonges  other  thynges  movid  them  in  the  seid  lettre  to 
advertise  my  Lord  for  abstynence  of  werre  til  Monday  come 
sevenyght ;  and  yif  my  Lordes  and  his  counsell  so  agree,  I 
have  comaundid  my  servaunt,  brynger  hereof,  to  geve  you 
knowlege  of  the  same,  avisyng  you  that  contenuyng  the  seid 
seson  to  absteyne  you  from  werre  gevyng  outward  in  like 
wise  ;  and  by  that  season  I  hope  to  have  knowlege  of  my 
Lordes  ententes. 


729 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 

To  John  Paston^  and  to  non  othyr. 

IRECOMAND  me  to  yow,  and  promyse  yow  that  I  have     1469 
and  schall  labore  and  fynde  the  meane  that  ye  schall  have  sept.  18 
honor  of  yowr  delyng  as  ye  have  hyddr  towards,  as  all 
Ingelond  and  every  man  reportythe  ;  and  moreover  I  am  in 
weye  for  it  by  many  dyverse  weys,  wherof  ther  schall  be  one 
exicutyd  by  thys  day  xiiij.  nyght  at  the  ferthest,  and   pera- 

^  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]     See  preliminary  note  to  last  letter. 

2  So  in  the  MS.,  the  redundant  words  being  left  uncancelled. 

3  [From  Fenn,  iv,  394.]     See  preliminary  note  to  No.  724. 

S2 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1469  ventur  within  vij.  dayes.  And  ifF  ye  maye  kepe  it  so  longe,  I 
SEPT.  18  wold  be  gladde,  and  aftr  that  iff  ye  have  nott  from  me  other 
wryghty ng,  that  than  ye  do  ther  in  for  yowr  safFgarde  and 
yowr  felaschep  only,  and  to  yowr  worschypys  ;  and  as  for 
the  place,  no  force  therfor.  Ye  knowe  thys  hande,  therfor 
nedythe  no  mencion  from  whem  it  comythe  ;  and  more  ovyr, 
they  that  be  abut  yow  be  in  obloquy  of  all  men,  and  mor  ovyr 
they  have  ben  wretyn  to  by  alse  speciall  wryghtyng  as  myght 
be,  after  the  worlde  that  now  is,  and  promyse  yow  that  the 
Dukes  concell  wolde  that  they  had  nevyr  be  gon  it ;  and  more 
ovyr  they  be  chargyd  in  payne  of  ther  lyvys,  that  thow  they 
gate  the  place,  they  scholde  not  hurt  on  of  yow.  Ther  is 
nowther  ye  ner  none  with  yow,  but  and  he  knewe  what  is 
generally  reportyd  of  hym,  he  or  ye,  and  God  fortewne  yow 
wele,  may  thynke  hym  iiij.  tymes  better  in  reputacion  of  all 
folk  than  evyr  he  was.  Be  war  whom  ye  make  a  concell  to 
thys  mater. 

Also  I  lete  yow  wete  that  I  am  in  moche  mor  comfort  of 
yow  than  I  maye  wryght,  and  they  that  be  about  yow  have 
cawse  to  be  mor  ferde  than  ye  have  ;  and  also  bewar  of 
spendyng  of  yowr  stufFe  of  qwarellys,  powdr,  and  stone,  so 
that  if  they  assaut  yow  er  we  come,  that  ye  have  stufFe  to 
dyiFende  yow  of  over,  and  than  of  my  lyfe  ye  get  no  mor, 
and  that  your  felaschyp  be  evyr  ocopyed  in  renewyng  of  your 
StufFe. 

Wretyn  the  Mondaye  next  aftr  Holy  Roode  Daye. 

I  trow,  thow  ye  be  not  prevy  ther  to,  ther  is  taken  a  trews 
new  tyl  thys  day  vij,  nygh. 


54 


EDWARD  IV 


730 

PASSPORT  TO  THE  BESIEGED  ON 
SURRENDER  OF  CAISTERi 

The  Due  of  Norfolk. 

WHERE  John  Paston,  esquier,  and  other  divers  per-  1469 
sones  have,  ageyn  the  peas,  kepte  the  manoir  of  ^ept.  26 
Caster  with  force,  ageyne  the  wille  and  entent  of  us 
the  Due  of  NorfFolk,  to  oure  grete  displeaser  ;  whiche  not- 
withstanding, at  the  contemplacion  of  the  writing  of  the  moost 
worshipful!  and  reverent  Fader  in  God  the  Cardenall  of  Eng- 
land, and  our  moost  trusty  and  entierly  beloved  Unkel  the 
Archbisshop  of  Canterbury,  the  right  noble  Prince  my  Lord 
of  Clarence,  and  other  Lords  of  oure  blood,  and  also  at  the 
grete  labour  and  enstaunce  of  our  moost  dere  and  singler 
belovid  wiffe,  we  be  agreed  that  the  seid  John  Paston  and  his 
seid  fellaship,  beyng  in  the  seid  maneur,  shall  depart  and  goo 
out  of  the  seid  maneur  without  delay,  and  make  therof  deliver- 
aunce  to  suche  persones  as  we  will  assigne,  the  seid  fellaship 
havyng  their  lyves  and  goods,  horsse,  and  barneys,  and  other 
goods  beyng  in  the  kepyng  of  the  seid  John  Paston  ;  except 
gonnes,  crossebows,  and  quarells,  and  alle  other  hostelments, 
to  the  seid  maneur  annexed  and  belonginge.  And  to  have  xv. 
dayes  respyte  aftir  their  seid  departing  out,  to  goo  in  to  what 
place  shall  like  theim,  without  any  accions  or  quarell  to  be 
taken  or  made  by  us,  in  our  name  to  theim,  or  any  of  theim, 
within  our  fraunchise  or  without,  duryng  the  seid  tyme. 

Yoven  under  our   signet  at  Yermouth  the  xxvj.  day  of 
Septembr  the  ix'^  yere  of  King  Edward  the  iiij'*"' 

Norff'.     © 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  24.] 


ss 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

731 

JOHN  PASTON  AND  THE  SURRENDER  OF  CAISTERi 

the  Due  of  Norff\ 


1469  TOHN,  Duke  of  NorfFolk,  Erie  Marshall  of  Sussex, 
SEPT.  26  I  Surrey,  and  of  Nottyngham,  Marshall  of  Inglonde, 
^  Lorde  Mowbray  of  Segreve,  Bromfelde,  and  Yalle,  to  al 
our  frendes,  servauntes,  and  othir  Crystyne  people,  gretyng. 
Wher  John  Paston,  esquier,  and  othre  diverse  persones  for- 
seble  hath  kepte  the  manoir  of  Castre,  contrary  to  our  will 
and  pleaser,  and  aftirwarde  by  his  lowly  labour  and  gret 
meanese  to  us  maade,  the  seide  John  Paston  hathe  maade 
cdeliveraunce  of  the  seide  manoir  to  such  persons  as  we  have 
assignede,  and  he  and  his  seide  felouship  by  our  lycence  to 
departe  out  of  the  same.  Wherefore  we  pray,  wil,  and  charge 
you  and  everysche  of  you,  that  ye  ne  vexce,  trouble,  manase, 
ne  greve  the  forseid  persones,  nor  eny  of  them,  for  the  kep- 
yng  of  the  seide  manere  contrary  to  the  Kynge  our  Sovereynge 
Lordes  lawyes,  for  we  have  takyne  them  in  our  safe  garde. 
Yevin  undir  our  signet  and  signmanuell  the  xxvj"  day  of  Sep- 
tembre,  the  ix'^  yere  of  Kynge  Edward  iiij'- 

Norff'.     (ls) 

732 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  2 
Caystr  yelded. — J.  P. 

[sept.]      I  *%  YGHT  werchepfull   sir,   I   recomand   me   on    to   yow. 

1^       And  as  for  the  serteynte  of  the  delyverance  of  Caster, 

John  Chapman  can  tell  yow  how  that  we  wer  enforsyd 

therto,  as  wel  as  mysylf.     As  for  John  Chapman  and  his  iij. 

*  [From  a  MS.  in  the  College  of  Arms.]  The  original  of  this  document,  signed 
and  sealed  by  the  Duke  of  Norfolk,  is  inserted  in  the  MS.  volume  called  Brooke's 
Asptlogia,  vol.  i.  p.  35. 

2  [From  Fenn,  iv.  4.10.] 

56 


EDWARD  IV 

felaws,  I  have  purveyd  that  they  be  pay  id  ache  of  them  xb.,  1469 
with  the  mony  that  they  had  of  yow  and  Dawbeney  ;  and  that  [sept.] 
is  inow  for  the  seson  that  they  have  don  yow  servys.  I  pray 
yow  geve  them  ther  thank,  for  by  my  trowthe  they  have  as 
well  deservyd  it  as  eny  men  that  ever  bare  lyve  ;  but  as  for 
mony,  ye  ned  not  to  geve  hem  with  owt  ye  wyll,  for  they  be 
plesyd  with  ther  wagys.  Wryttyll  promysyd  me  to  send  yow 
the  serteynte  of  the  apoyntement.  We  wer  sor  ^  lak  of  vetayl, 
gonepowdyr,  menys  herts,  lak  of  suerte  of  rescwe,  drevyn  ther- 
to  to  take  apoyntement. 

If  ye  wyll  that  I  come  to  yow,  send  me  woord,  and  I  shall 
pervey  me  for  to  tery  with  yow  a  ij.  or  iij.  dayis.  By  my 
trowthe,  the  rewardyng  of  syche  folkys  as  hathe  ben  with  me 
dwryng  the  sege  hathe  putt  me  in  gret  danger  for  the  monye. 
God  preserve  yow,  and  I  pray  yow  be  of  good  cher  tyll  I 
spek  with  yow,  and  I  trust  to  God  to  ese  your  hert  in  some 
thynggys. 

J.  Paston. 

733 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON ^ 

To  Sir  John  Paston,  in  hast.     A  matre. 

1GRETE  zow  wele,  and  send  zow  Godds  blyssyng  and  sept.  23- 
myn,  letyng  zow  wete  that  me  thynke  be  the  letter  that  3°- 
ze  sent  me  be  Robeyn,  that  ze  thynke  that  I  xuld  wryte 
to  zow  fabyls  and  ymagynacyons  ;  but  I  do  not  soo.  I  have 
wrytyn  as  yt  have  be  enformed  me,  and  wulle  do.  It  was  told 
me  that  bothe  Daubeney  and  Berney  wer  dedee,  but  for  serten 
Daubeney  is  dede,  God  asoyle  hys  sowle  ;  wher  of  I  am  rythe 
sery,  and  yt  had  plesyd  God  that  yt  mythe  abe  other  wysse. 

Remembyr  zow,  ze  have  had  ij.  gret  lossy s  withyne  thys 
towylemonth,   of  hym   and   of   Sir    Thomas.^      God   wysyth 

1  sor.  So  the  word  stands  in  Fenn,  and  'sore '  in  the  copy  in  modem  spelling;  but 
I  suspect  a  misreading  of  '  for.' 

2  [From  Fenn,  iv.  396.]     This  is  written,  as  will  be  seen,  in  reply  to  No.  725. 
'  Sir  Thomas  Howes. 

57 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1469  [visiteth^  zow  as  yt  plesythe  Hym  in  sundery  wyses  ;  He 
SEPT.  23-  woole  ze  xuld  know  Hym,  and  serve  Hym  better  than  ze  have 
3°  do  be  for  thys  tyme,  and  than  He  wuU  send  zow  the  mor 
grace  to  do  wele  in  ale  other  thynggs.  And  for  Godds  love, 
remembyr  yt  rythe  welle,  and  take  yt  pacyentely,  and  thanke 
God  of  Hys  vysitacyon  ;  and  yf  ony  thyng  have  be  a  mysse 
ony  other  wyse  than  yt  howte  to  have  ben  befor  thys,  owther 
in  pryde  or  in  laves  expences,  or  in  eny  other  thyng  that  have 
ofFendyd  God,  amend  yt,  and  pray  Hym  of  Hys  grace  and 
helpe,  and  entende  welle  to  God,  and  to  zour  neybors  ;  and 
thow  zour  poor  heraftyr  be  to  aquyte  hem  of  her  maleys,  zet 
be  mersyfulle  to  hem,  and  God  xale  send  zow  the  mor  grace  to 
have  your  entente  in  other  thynggs. 

1  remembyr  thys  clawsys,  be  cause  of  the  last  letter  that  ze 
sent  me.  I  have  sent  to  Hary  Halman  of  Sporylle  to  helpe 
to  gete  as  ze  desyerd  me,  and  he  canne  not  gette  passyd  v.  or 
viij.  at  the  most,  and  zet  yt  wule  not  be  but  yf  [unless']  he 
cume  that  ze  trust  upon  that  xuld  cume,  for  they  long  a  parte 
to  hym.  And  Ryschard  Sharman  hathe  asayed  on  hys  parte, 
and  he  cane  not  gette  passyd  v.  ;  for  thoo  that  long  to  us,  thei 
long  also  to  our  adversarys,  and  they  have  be  desyerd  be  them, 
and  they  woold  nowte  do  for  hem,  and  ther  for  they  thynke 
to  have  magery  of  the  toder  parte. 

As  for  the  jantylman  that  ye  desyerd  me  to  speke  with,  I 
spake  with  hys  wyfe,  and  sche  told  me  he  was  not  in  thys 
cuntre,  ner  nowte  woost  wan  he  xuld  be  her  ;  and  as  for  the 
toder  man,  he  hath  bowthe  [bought]  hym  a  livery  in  Brome- 
holme  Pryery,  and  have  geve  upe  the  woord  [world]^  &c. 

Item,  as  for  mony,  I  kowde  getee  but  x//,  upon  pledges, 
and  that  is  spent  for  zour  maters  her,  for  payeng  of  zour  men 
that  wern  at  Caster,  and  other  thynggs,  and  I  woot  not  wer  to 
gette  non,  nowther  for  suerte  ner  for  pleggs  ;  and  as  for  myn 
owyn  lyvelod,  I  am  so  sympely  payed  ther  of  that  I  fer  me  I 
xale  be  fayn  to  borow  for  my  sylfe,  or  ell[es]  to  breke  up 
howsold  or  bothe. 

As  for  the  zeddyng  [yielding]  of  the  place  at  Caster,  I  trowe 
Wretyll  hathe  told  of  the  pawntements  [appointments]  how  ytts 
delyvered.     I  woold  that  [it]  had  be  so  her  [ere]  thys  tyme, 

58 


50 


EDWARD  IV 

and  zan  [then]  ther  xuld  not  a  ben  do  so  mykyle  herte  as  ther     1469 
is  in  dyverse  weyes  ;  for  many  of  our  welewyllers  arn  putte  sept,  23- 
to  loosse  for  our  saks,  and  I  fer  me  that  [it]  xale  be  long  her       3<^ 
yt  be  recumpensyd  ageyn,  and  that  xale  cause  other  to  do  the 
lesse  for  vus  her  aftyr. 

I  woold  ze  xuld  [send]  zour  brother  woord,  and  sum  other 
that  ze  truste,  to  see  to  zour  owyn  lyelod  to  sette  yt  in  a  rule, 
and  to  gader  ther  of  that  may  be  had  in  haste,  and  also  of  Sir 
John  Fastolf  lyoeld  that  may  be  gadyrd  in  pesybyle  wyse.  For 
as  for  Ryschard  Calle,  he  wulle  no  mor  gadyr  yt  but  yf  ze 
comaund  hym,  and  he  woold  fayn  make  hys  .  .  acowntte, 
and  have  zour  good  maystyr  schepe,  as  ytts  told  me,  and 
delyvere  the  evydens  of  Bekkeham,  and  alle  other  thynggs  that 
longyth  to  zow,  that  he  trustythe  that  ze  wylle  be  hys  good 
mayster  heraftyr.  And  he  sethe  he  wylle  not  take  non  newe 
master  tyle  ze  refuse  hys  servyse. 

Remembyr  that  zowr  lyvelod  may  be  set  in  soche  a  rule 
that  ye  may  knowe  how  ytts,  and  wat  is  owyn  to  zow  ;  for  be 
my  feythe  I  have  holpyn  as  mysche  as  I  may  and  mor,  savyng 
my  sylfe,  and  therfor  take  hede  er  yt  be  weers. 

Thys  letter  was  begune  on  Fryday  was  vij.  nythe,  and 
enddyd  thys  day  nexte  afftyr  Mychylmes  Day.  God  kepe 
zow,  and  yeve  zow  grace  to  do  as  wele  as  I  woold  ze  dede ; 
and  I  scharge  zow  be  war  that  ze  sette  no  lond  to  morgage, 
for  if  eny  avyse  zow  ther  to,  they  arn  not  zowr  frendds.  Be 
war  be  tymes  myn  avyse,  &c.  I  trow  yowr  brother  wyll  geve 
zow  tydyngs  in  haste. 


734 

NOTEi 

Inventory  of  household  goods  (including  guns)  left  at  Caister  by  Sir  John 
Paston  at  the  entry  of  my  Lord  of  Norfolk. 


1  [ms.  Phillipps,  9735,  No.  201.] 

59 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  i 

'To  my  master.  Sir  John  Paston,  in  Flett-Stret. 

1409      I  ^  YGHT  worchepfull  sir,  I  recomand  on  to  you,  praying 

^^^'  ^  iX.  y^^  ^^^^  y^  ^y^^^  ^^  ^^^  ^^^^  send  me  word  how  that  ye 
wyll  that  Sir  John  Style,  John  Pampyng,  W.  Mylsent, 
Nycolas  Mondonet,  T.  Tomson  shall  be  rwlyd,  and  whedyr 
that  they  shall  sek  hem  newe  servysys  or  not ;  and  Mathewe 
Bedford  also,  for  he  hathe  be  with  me  this  seson,  and  is  fro 
my  modyr.  And  if  so  be  that  ye  wyll  have  thes  to  abyde 
with  yow,  or  eny  of  them,  send  word  whyche  that  they  be  ; 
for  betwyx  thys  and  Halowmas  my  modyr  is  agreyd  that  they 
shall  have  met  and  drynk  of  hyr  for  syche  a  serteyn  wekly  as 
my  modyr  and  yu  and  I  can  acord  when  we  met.  Notwith- 
standy ng,  if  ye  kowd  get  Barney  or  eny  of  thes  seyd  folkys, 
whyche  that  ye  wyll  not  kepe,  eny  servyse  in  the  mene  seson, 
it  wer  more  worchep  for  yow  then  to  put  them  from  yow  lyek 
masteries  hondys  [hounds~\  ;  for  by  my  trowthe  they  ar  as  good 
menys  bodys  as  eny  leve,  and  specyally  Sir  John  Stylle  and 
John  Pampyng.  And  I  wer  of  power  to  kepe  them  and  all 
thes  befor  rehersyd,  by  trowthe  they  shold  never  depert  fro 
me  whyll  I  leveyd. 

If  ye  send  me  word  that  I  shall  come  to  yow  to  London 
for  to  comon  with  yow  of  eny  mater,  so  God  help  me,  I  have 
neythyr  mony  to  com  up  with,  nor  for  to  tery  with  yow  when 
I  am  ther  but  if  [unless^  ye  send  me  some ;  for  by  my  trowthe 
thes  werkys  have  causyd  me  to  ley  owt  for  yow  bettyr  then  x. 
or  xij//.,  besyd  that  money  that  I  had  of  my  modyr,  whyche  is 
abowt  on  viij//.  God  amend  defowts  ;  but  this  I  warant  yow, 
with  out  that  it  be  Mathew,  whyche  ye  sent  woord  by  John 
Thressher  that  ye  wold  have  to  awayt  on  yow,  ther  is  no  man 

^  [From  Fenn,  iv.  412.]    This  is  a  letter  desiring  instructions  about  the  garrison 
of  Caister  after  its  surrender. 

60 


EDWARD  IV 

that  was  hyryd  for  the  tyme  of  thys  sege  that  wyll  axe  yow  a    1469 
peny.  oct.  5 

Also  I  pray  yow  send  downe  acomandment  to  Stutvylle, 
or  to  some  awdyter,  to  take  acomptys  of  Dawbneys  byllys  ; 
for  hys  executors  ar  sore  callyd  upon  for  to  admynyster  by  the 
Byshop,  or  ellys  he  seythe  that  he  wyle  seqwester.  Dawbeney 
set  in  hys  dett  that  ye  owt  hym  xijli.  and  xs.  Whedyr  it  be 
so  or  nowt,  hys  byllys  of  hys  owne  hand  wyll  not  lye,  for  he 
mad  hys  byllys  clere  or  then  the  sege  com  abowt  us. 

As  for  the  evydence  of  Bekham,  my  modyr  sent  to  Calle 
for  hem  ;  and  he  sent  hyr  woord  that  he  wold  make  hys 
acompts,  and  delyver  the  evydence  and  all  to  gedyr.  My 
modyr  hathe  sent  to  hym  ayen  for  hem  thys  day.  If  she  sped, 
they  shall  be  sent  to  yow  in  all  hast,  or  ellys,  and  ye  send  for 
me,  I  shall  bryng  hem  with  me.  Send  my  modyr  and  me 
word  who  ye  wyll  that  have  the  rwyll  of  your  lyvelod  her  in 
thys  contre,  and  in  what  forme  that  it  shall  be  delt  with.  I 
wyll  not  make  me  mastyrfast  with  my  Lord  of  NoriF.,  nor 
with  non  othyr,  tyle  I  spek  with  yow  ;  and  ye  thynk  it  be  to 
be  don,  get  me  a  mastyr. 

Dell  corteysly  with  the  Qwen  and  that  felawshep,  and 
with  Mastras  Anne  Hawte  for  Wappys,^  tyll  I  spek  with  zow. 
Wretyn  on  Seynt  Fey  thys  Evyn. 

J.  Paston. 

By  Sent  George,  I  and  my  felawshep  stand  in  fer  of  my 
Lord  of  NorfF.  men,  for  we  be  thret  sore,  not  withstandyng 
the  save  gardys  ^  that  my  felawshep  have.  As  for  me,  I  have 
non,  nor  non  of  your  howsold  men,  nor  non  wyll  have  ;  it  wer 
shame  to  take  it. 

1  This  expression  '  for  Wappys  '  I  do  not  understand. — F.    Perhaps  Wappys  may 
be  a  proper  name. 

2  Save  gardys.      This  is   printed   '  same  gardys '  in  Fenn,   but  is  evidently  a 
misreading ;  in  the  right-hand  copy  the  word  is  '  safeguards.' 


61 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


736 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  1 

'To  Mestresse  Margret  Paston,  be  thys  delyveryd. 

1469      I  '\  YGHT  worchypfull  Moodre,  I  comand  me  to  yow,  and 
[OCT.]      J-^       beseche  yow  of  yowr  blyssyng  and  Gods.     Thanke 
yow  for  yowr  tendrenesse  and  helpe  bothe  to  me,  my 
brother,  and  servants.^ 

•  •  •  •  *  •  • 

The  Kynge  is  comyn  to  London,  and  ther  came  with  hym, 
and  roode  ageyn  hym,  the  Duke  of  Glowcestr,  the  Duke  of 
SufFolke,  the  Erie  of  Aroundell,  the  Erie  of  Northumbreland, 
the  Erie  of  Essex,  the  Lordes  Harry  and  John  of  Bokyngham, 
the  Lord  Dakres,  the  Lorde  Chambreleyn,  the  Lorde  Montjoye, 
and  many  other  Knyghtys  and  Sqwyers,  the  Meyr  of  London, 
xxij,  Aldremen,  in  skarlett,  and  of  the  Crafftys  men  of  the 
town  to  the  nombre  of  CC,  all  in  blewe.  The  Kynge  come 
thorow  Chepe,  thowe  it  wer  owt  of  hys  weye,  be  cawse  he  wold 
not  be  seyn,  and  he  was  accompanyed  in  all  peple  with  m'' 
horsse,  som  harneysyd  and  som  nat.  My  Lorde  Arche- 
bysshop^  com  with  hym  from  Yorke,  and  is  at  the  Moor,* 
and  my  Lorde  of  OxenfFord  roode  to  have  mett  the 
Kyng,  and  he  is  with  my  Lorde  Archebysshop  at  the  Moor, 
and  come  nat  to  town  with  the  Kynge ;  some  sey  that  they  wer 
yesterdaye  iij.  myle  to  the  Kyng  wards  from  the  Moor,  and 
that  the  Kyng  sent  them  a  massangr  that  they  scholde  com 
when  that  he  sent  for   them.      I   wot   not   what   to   suppose 

1  [From  Fenn,  i.  292.]  The  allusion  in  an  unprinted  passage  in  this  letter  to  the 
approaching  marriage  of  Richard  Calle  with  Margery  Paston  proves  it  to  be  of  the  year 
1469.  In  that  year  it  appears  by  the  dates  of  the  privy  seals  that  Edward  iv.  remained 
during  the  whole  of  September  in  Yorkshire,  having  been  detained  by  Warwick  at 
Middieham  as  a  prisoner  during  the  month  of  August;  but  he  was  in  London  as  early 
as  the  I  3th  October. 

2  Here,  according  to  Fenn,  follow  passages  touching  '  an  account  of  monies,  debts, 
&c.,  a  dispute  with  his  uncle  William,  and  a  desire  to  defer  his  sister  Margery's 
marriage  with  Richard  Calle  till  Christmas.' 

3  George  Nevill,  Archbishop  of  York. 
^  See  p.  20,  Note  3. 

62 


EDWARD  IV 

therin  ;  the  Kyng  hymselffe  hathe  good  langage  of  the  Lords     1469 
of  Clarance,  of  Warwyk,  and  of  my  Lords  of  York  [and]  of    [oct.] 
Oxenford,  seyng  they  be  hys  best  frendys  ;  but  hys  howselde 
men  have  other  langage,  so  that  what  schall  hastely  falle  1 
cannot  seye. 

My  Lorde  of  Norffblke  schall  be  her  thys  nyght.  I  schall 
sende  yow  mor  when  I  knowe  mor. 

Item,  iff  Ebysham  come  not  home  with  myn  oncle  W., 
that  than  ye  sende  me  the  ij.  Frenshe  bookys  that  he  scholde 
have  wretyn,  that  be  may  wryght  them  her, 

John  Paston,  Kt. 


737 

ABSTRACT  1 

[John  Paston]   to   [Sir  John   Paston] 

Has  reckoned  with  Maryot.     Accounts  of  Bekham.     Has  not  spoken  with      14.60 
W.  Bakton,  but  will  before  returning  to  Norwich.      Means  to  visit  Bekham  on 
his  way  thither.      Sends  copy  of  the  condition  wherein  ye  be  bound  to  John 
Maryot.     As  for  Sir  T.  Mongomere's  man,  etc. 

Richard  Calle  says  he  has  delivered  to  me  all  writings  he  had  of  you  except 
an  endenture  for  letting  Saxthorp,  which  is  but  a  jape.  All  but  a  rental  of 
Snaylwell  are  but  accounts,  etc.  He  has  delivered  me  four  or  five  court  rolls 
of  Sir  J.  FastolfF's  lands,  of  his  own  hand.  He  has  done  reasonably  well  about 
showing  me  the  arrears  of  your  lifelode.  *  As  for  his  abiding,  it  is  in  Blak- 
borow  nunnery,  a  little  fro  Lynn,  and  our  unhappy  sister's  also.  And  as  for 
his  service,  there  shall  have  no  man  have  it  before  you,  and  ye  will.  I  hear 
not  speak  of  none  other  service,  of  no  lord's  that  he  shall  be  in.'  Has  not  yet 
spoken  with  Daubney's  executors,  but  will  on  his  way  homewards.  Sends 
copy  of  the  inventory  ^  he  [John  Paston]  made  on  leaving  Caister.  Means  to 
be  at  Sporle  to-morrow  or  Thursday,  to  see  what  may  be  made  of  the  wood, 
and  who  will  give  most  for  it ( MS.  mutilated  at  the  bottom. ) 

[This  letter  is  in  the  handwriting  of  John  Paston,  but  the  signature  is  lost.  It 
is  quite  certain  that  it  was  written  in  1469  after  the  surrender  of  Caister.  Allusion 
is  also  made  to  the  unpleasant  subject  of  the  engagement  of  Richard  Calle  and 
Margery  Paston,  who  seem  to  have  retired  to  Blackborough  nunnery  prior  to  their 
marriage.] 


1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  2  See  No.  734. 

63 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


738 

ABSTRACT  1 

1469  Indenture  between  Sir  John  Paston,  of  the  one  part,  and  Roger  Townsende, 

NOV.  6  gent.,  of  the  other  part,  containing  covenants  for  the  sale  of  the  manor  of  Est 
Beckham,  and  of  all  Paston's  other  lands  in  Est  Bekham,  West  Bekham, 
Bodham,  Sherryngham,  Beeston  near  the  Sea,  Runeton,  Shipden,  Felbrigg, 
Aylmerton,  Sustede,  and  Gresham,  which  the  said  Sir  John  had  of  the  gift  of 
John  Mariet  the  elder  of  Est  Bekham,  for  100  marks,  of  which  he  has  received 
already  j^5 4,  leaving^iz,  I3j-.  4J.  to  be  paid  by  the  said  Roger  at  the  Feast 
of  St.  Luke  next  coming.     Dated  6th  Nov.  9  Edw.  iv. 

Seal,  with  inscription,  '  Si  Dieu  vuet.' 


739 

ABSTRACT 2 

1469,  25  Nov.  9  Edw.  IV.  'In  the  priory  of  Saynt  Marye  Overy  in 
Suthwarke.'  Acknowledgment  (in  English)  by  Will.  Yelverton,  Knt.,  Just, 
of  K.  B.,  of  the  receipt  from  Bishop  Waynflete  of  ^^87,  in  full  satisfaction  of 
all  claims  on  Sir  J.  Fastolf  by  Jaquet,  Duchess  of  Bedford ;  solemnly  promis- 
ing also  that  he  will  not  hereafter  receive  any  sums,  great  or  small,  on  account 
of  Fastolf's  goods,  debts,  or  possessions,  without  the  assent  of  the  Bishop,  that 
he  will  at  all  times  be  ready  to  seal  such  grants,  &c.,  as  the  Bishop  may  require 
to  be  sealed,  and  that  he  will  not  himself  make  or  seal  any  grant,  etc.,  without 
the  Bishop's  will  and  agreement. 


1  [Add.  Charter,  14,526,  B.M.] 

2  The  following  abstract  is  taken  from  Mr.  Macray's  Report  on  the  MSS.  in 
Magdalen  College,  Oxford. 


64 


EDWARD  IV 

740 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON^ 

To  Master  Syr  John  Paston^  Knyght. 

RYGHT  worchepfuU  syr,  I  recomand  me  to  you,  &c.  It  1469 
is  so  that  thys  day  ther  cam  a  good  felaw  to  me,  whyche  dec. 
may  not  be  dyscoveryd,  and  let  me  wet  that  my  Lord 
of  Norff.  consayll  hathe  this  Crystmas  gotyn  the  two  wydows, 
whows  husbands  wer  slayn  at  the  sege  of  Caster,  and  have  hem 
bowndyn  in  a  gret  some  that  they  shall  swe  a  peel  ayenst  me 
and  syche  as  wer  ther  with  me  within  the  plase,  and  they  be 
bownd  also  that  they  shall  relese  no  man  within  the  apell 
namyd  tyll  syche  tyme  as  my  Lord  of  NorfF.  wyll  lycence 
them. 

Item,  the  cawse  is  thys,  as  it  is  told  me  by  dyvers,  that  ye 
meke  no  more  swte  to  my  Lord  for  yourself  than  ye  do,  and 
therfor  they  do  the  wors  to  me  for  your  sake. 

Item,  as  for  my  comyng  up  to  London,  so  God  help  me, 
and  I  may  chese,  I  com  not  ther,  for  argent  me  fawlt^  without 
apell  or  an  inkyr  \inquiry}^  of  som  specyall  mater  of  your 
cawse  it.  Item,  I  pray  yow  remembyr  Caleys,  for  I  am  put 
out  of  wagys  in  thys  contre. 

Item,  I  pray  yow  send  me  some  tydyngs  how  the  world 
gothe  ad  confortandum  stomacum. 

Item,  ye  must  purvey  anewe  atorny  in  thys  contre.  As  for 
me,  for  our  maters  and  clamore  is  to  gret,  and  our  purse  and 
wytte  to  slendyr,  but  I  wyle  rubbe  on  as  long  as  I  maye  bothe 
with  myn  owne,  and  other  menys  that  wyle  do  for  me  tyll 
better  pese  be. 

Wretyn  thys  Saturdaye,  at  Norwcyche.  J.  P. 

1  [From  Fenn,  iv.  416.]  It  appears  by  the  contents  that  this  letter  was  written 
about  Christmas  after  the  siege  of  Caister.  An  appeal  of  murder  was  a  process  sued 
by  the  nearest  relative  of  a  person  killed.  It  was  quite  independent  of  any  prosecution 
for  murder  by  the  Crown,  and  no  royal  pardon  was  of  any  avail  against  it ;  but  the 
appeal  had  to  be  brought  within  a  year  and  a  day  of  the  fact. 

VOL.  V. E  G^^ 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

741 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

I A  no  T^  YGHT  worchepfull  Syr,  I  recomand  me  to  yow  aftyr 
MARCH  1  f\  the  old  maner,  sertyfyng  yow  that  I  have  comonyd 
with  my  modyr  for  your  coming  hom,  but  I  can  not 
fynd  by  hyr  that  she  wyll  depert  with  eny  sylvyr  for  your 
costis,  for  she  and  hyr  cwrate'-^  ^l^gge  rnor  poverte  then  ever 
wasse.  Item,  as  for  your  clok  at  Harcortis  it  wyll  be  nye 
Estern  er  it  be  redy,  for  ther  is  stolyn  owt  of  hys  chaumbyr 
some  of  the  ger  that  belongyd  therto,  and  that  must  have 
leyser  to  be  mad  ayen.  Item,  the  caryer  forgat  your  byll 
behynd  hym,  but  it  was  delyveryd  all  to  gedyr,  but  it  shall  be 
browght  yow  and  the  wyndas  with  the  teles  by  the  next  caryer, 
as  myn  orangys  shall  com  to  me  1  tryst.  Dame  Elyzabet 
Calthorp  is  a  fayir  lady  and  longyth  for  orangis,  thow  she  be 
not  with  chyld.  Item,  I  pray  yow  that  ye  wyll  make  aqwetance 
on  to  the  person  of  Mawtby  ^  and  to  John  Seyne  as  executors 
to  John  Dawbeney,  for  they  wyll  take  non  admynystracyon  of 
hys  goodis  tyll  they  be  aqwetansyd  of  youre  and  my  modyr. 
Ye  maye  do  it  well  j  nough,  so  God  help  me  ;  for  I  wot  well 
ye  owt  hym  mony,  and  he  nat  yow,  if  so  be  that  he  wer  trewe 
when  he  dyid,  and  I  wot  well  we  fond  hym  nevyr  on  trew  in 
hys  lyve  ;  but  hys  frendys  and  othyr  of  the  contre  putt  grett 
defawt  in  me  that  ther  is  no  thyng  don  for  hym,  seying  that  he 
myght  do  no  more  for  us  but  lose  hys  lyfe  in  your  servyse  and 
myn  ;  and  now  he  is  half  forgotyn  among  us,  Wherfor  I  pray 
yow  let  thys  be  sped. 

Item,  as  for  Doctor  Pykenham,  J.  Pampyng  can  tell  yow 
he  is  not  in  Norwyche.  When  he  comyth  I  shall  spek  with 
hym  and  send  yow  hys  answer.  Item,  as  for  myn  oncyll 
Wylliam,  I  have  grant  to  have  a  byll  of  hym  what  every  thyng 
lythe  for  ;   but  all   thyng  is   not  yet  in   rest  ayen   that   was 

1  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  192.]  This  letter  may  be  dated  1470,  by  comparing  the 
postscript  with  the  beginning  of  No.  742,  which  seems  to  have  been  written  in  answer 
to  it.     John  Daubeney  was  killed  at  the  siege  of  Caister  in  1469.     See  Nos.  725,  733. 

2  James  Gloys. 

3  Robert  Cutler  or  Cotteler.     See  next  page. 

66 


EDWARD  IV 

remevyd  for  the  chyrchyng  of  my  Lady  Anne.     As  sonne  as     1470 
I  have  the  byll  I  shall  send  it  yow  and  hys  answer,  whyche  he   march  i 
wyll  fyrst  have  plegyd  owght,  and  also  whethyr  he  purposyth 
to  do  as  he  seyd  by  my  graundamys  lond. 

Item,  Gefrey  Spyrlyng  hathe  ofte  spokyn  to  me  to  send  to 
yow  for  to  undyrstand  how  ye  will  deell  with  hym  for  hys 
place  in  Norwyche,  for  he  seythe  that  he  had  lever  have  your 
good  mastyrship  ther  in  then  eny  othyr  manys  good  lordshep ; 
for  and  ye  wyll  be  hys  good  mastyr  he  wyll  swe  no  ferther,  or 
ellys  he  must. 

Item,  a  for  (sic)  for  myn  old  reknyng,  I  shall  make  it  up 
in  hast  and  send  it  yow  for  your  bettyr  remembrance,  for  as 
me  thynkyth  by  your  wrytyng  ye  have  nye  forgetyn  it ;  but  I 
am  rype  j  now  in  it  for  myn  owne  dyscharge.  Item,  I  pray 
yow,  take  in  to  your  a  ward  a  short  murry  jornade  ^  of  myn  ' 
whyche  Jacobyn,  Wykis  woman,  hathe  lest  that  she  be  flyttyng 
and  that  it  be  exchetyd.  Item,  I  pray  yow  send  me  swyr 
tydyngis  of  the  world  in  hast. 

As  for  the  bysheop  of  Wynchestyr,  W.  Wyrceteyr  told  my 
modyr  that  he  had  takyn  charge  x.  dayis  or  then  Pampyng  cam 
hom  ;  but  he  wenyth  that  the  bysshop  wyll  be  a  yenst  yow,  in 
so  myche  that  [he  ^]  avysyd  my  modyr  to  consell  yow  that  ye 
shoU  labor  to  my  Lord  Cardynall  ^  that  the  seyd  byshop  shold 
not  be  amytted  to  take  admynystracyon.  No  mor,  &c. 
Wretyn  at  Norwyche  the  fyrst  daye  off  Marche.  J.   P. 

I  pray,  get  us  a  wyfe  somwher,  for  Melius  est  nubere  in 
Domino  quam  urere.    (ca°  primo.)  * 

Noveritis  universi  per  presentes  me  J.  P.  mylitem  remisisse, 
&c.  Roberto  Cotteler  personas  ecclesias  de  Mawtby  in  comitatu 
Norfolk  et  Johanni  Seyne  de  Rollysby  in  eodem  comitatu, 
executores  testamenti  et  ultimas  voluntatis  Johannis  Dawbeney 
armygeri,  nuper  defuncti,  omnimodas  acciones,  tam  reales,  &c. 
quos  versus  eundem  Robertum  sive  Johannem  Seyne  habui, 
habeo,  &c.,  racione  alicujus  debyti  dicti  Johannis  Dawbeney, 

1  Halliwell  gives  '  jomet '  as  '  a  kind  of  cloak ' ;  '  murrey '  was  a  dark  red  colour. 

2  Omitted  in  MS.  ^  Cardinal  Bourchier. 

*  The  reference  is  as  inaccurate  as  the  quotation.     The  text  referred  to  is  i  Cor. 
vii,  9  :  '  Melius  est  enim  nubere  quam  uri.' 

67 


THE   PASTON   LETTERS 

1470    jam  defuncti,  mychi  dicto  J.  Paston   debite  {sk)  a  principio 
MARCH  I  mundi  usque  in  diem,  &c.     In  cujus,  &c.     Datum,  &c. 

As  for  the  yer  of  the  Kyng,  let  it  be  set  in,  but  as  for  the 
daye  and  the  monyth  let  it  be  owt,  for  the  day  must  be  aftyr 
probate  of  the  wyll  and  the  admynystracyon  takyng.  I  pray 
you,  let  thys  be  sped  in  all  hast  possybyll ;  and  as  for  your 
obligacyon  and  syche  ger  as  belongyth  to  yow,  I  shalbe  swyr  of 
it  er  they  have  the  aqwetance. 

Item,  as  for  owyr  afrayis  her,  J.  Pampyng  can  tell  yow  ; 
but  and  they  get  me,  ye  loose  a  brodyr,  quod  juratum  est. 

It  is  good  to  do  by  the  comandment  of  your  mastyr  whyll 
I  am  so  well  boryn  owte ;  thys  my  lord  of  Norffolk  galantis 
send  me  woord  dayly  ad  confortandum  stomacum.  Ye  must  spek 
with  your  mastyr  and  comon  some  remedye  hastyly,  or  be  God 
I  enswyr  yow,  whyll  owyr  Dwk  is  thus  cherysheid  with  the 
kyng,  ye  nor  I  shall  not  have  a  man  unbetyn  or  slayn  in  thys- 
contre,  nor  our  sylfe  nowthyr,  as  well  ye  as  I,  quod  juratum  est 
onys  ayen.  The  Dwke,  the  Dwches  and  ther  consell  ar  wrothe 
that  ye  make  no  meanys  to  them  your  sylfe. 

Item,  I  send  yow  Townysendis  endentwre  by  John 
Pampyng. 


742 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

'To  John  Paston^  Esquier,  beyng  at  Norwyche, 
be  thys  letter  delyveryd. 

MARCH     "IT  COMANDE  me  to  yow,  letyng  yow  wete,  &c.^ 

-■-        Item,  as  for  Mestresse   Kateryn  Dudle,  I  have  many 
tymes  recomandyd  yow  to  hyr,  and  she  is   noo  thynge   dis- 

'  [From  Fenn,  ii.  28.]  From  the  reference  to  the  King's  being  about  to  go  into 
Lincolnshire,  and  what  is  said  of  the  Earl  of  Warwick,  it  may  be  clearly  inferred  that 
this  letter  was  written  on  the  outbreak  of  the  insurrection  of  Sir  Robert  Welles  in  the 
beginning  of  March  1470. 

2  Here  (according  to  Fenn)  follows  an  account  of  bills  and  receipts,  etc. 

68 


EDWARD  IV 

pleasyd  with  itt.      She  rekkythe  not  howe  many  gentylmen     1470 
love  hyr  ;    she  is  full  of  love.     I  have  betyn  the  mater  for     march 
yow,  your  onknowleche,  as  I  told  hyr.     She  answerythe  me, 
that  sche  woU  noon  thys  ij.  yer,  and  I  beleve  hyr  ;  for  I  thynke . 
sche  hathe  the  lyffe  that  sche  can  holde  hyr  content  with  ;  I 
trowe  she  woU  be  a  sore  laboryng  woman  this  ij.  yer  for  mede 
of  hyr  sowle. 

And  Mestresse  Gryseacresse  is  sure  to  Selenger,  with  my 
Lady  of  Exestre,  a  fowle  losse. 

Item,  I  praye  yow  speke  with  Harcort  off  the  Abbeye,  for 
-a  lytell  clokke,  whyche  I  sent  hym  by  James  Gressham  to 
amend,  and  that  ye  woU  get  it  off  hym,  and  it  be  redy,  and 
sende  it  me  ;  and  as  for  mony  for  hys  labor,  he  hathe  another 
-  cloke  off  myne,  whyche  Sir  Thomas  Lyndes,  God  have  hys 
sowle  !  gave  me  ;  he  may  kepe  that  tyll  I  paye  hym.  Thys 
klok  is  my  Lordys  Archebysshopis,  but  late  not  hym  wete  off 
it,  and  that  itt  [be]  easely  caryed  hyddre  by  yowr  advyse. 

Also  as  for  orenges,  I  schall  sende  yow  a  serteyn  by  the 
"next   caryer.      And  as  for   tydynge   the   berer  hereoff  schall 
infforme  yow  ;  ye  most  geve  credence  to  hym. 

As  for  my  goode  spede,  I  hope  well.  I  am  offryd  yit  to 
have  Mestresse  Anne  Haulte,  and  I  schall  have  help  i  nowe,  as 
some  say.^ 

Item,  it  is  soo  that  I  am  halffe  in  purpose  to  com  home 
with  in  a  monythe  her  afftr,  or  abowt  Med  Lente,  or  beffor 
Esterne,  ondyr  yowr  coreccon,  iff  so  be  that  ye  deme  that  [my] 
modre  wolde  helpe  me  to  my  costys,  x.  mark  or  ther  abowt ; 
I  praye  feele  hyr  dysposicion  and  sende  me  worde. 

Item,  I  cannot  tell  yow  what  woU  falle  off  the  worlde,  for 
the  Kyng  verrely  is  dysposyd  to  goo  in  to  Lyncoln  schyr,  and 
men  wot  not  what  wyll  falle  ther  off,  ner  ther  afftre  ;  they  wene 
my  Lorde  off  Norffolke  shall  ^  brynke  x.""'-  men. 

Item,  ther  is  comen  a  newe  litell  Torke,  whyche  is  a  wele 

1  Here   (according  to  Fenn)  follows  an   account  of  some  disputes  between  Sir 
"William  Yelverton  and  Sir  John  Paston,  his  uncle  William,  etc.,  of  no  consequence. 

2  shall.     This  word  is  not  in  Fenn's  left-hand  or  literal  transcript,  but  is  given  as 
part  of  the  text  in  the  right-hand  copy. 

69 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1470  vysagyd  felawe,  off  the  age  off  xl.  yere  ;  and  he  is  lower  than 
MARCH  Manuell  by  a  hanffuU,  and  lower  then  my  lytell  Tom  by  the 
schorderys,  and  mor  lytell  above  hys  pappe  ;  and  he  hathe,  as 
he  seyde  to  the  Kynge  hymselffe,  iij.  or  iiij.  sonys,  chyldre,  iche 
one  off  hem  as  hyghe  and  asse  lykly  as  the  Kynge  hymselffe  ; 
and  he  is  leggyd  ryght  i  now,  and  it  is  reportyd  that  hys  pyntell 
is  as  long  as  hys  legge. 

Item,  I  praye  yow  schewe,  or  rede  to  my  moodre  suche 
thynges  as  ye  thynke  is  for  her  to  know,  afftre  yowr  dyscres- 
sion  ;  and  to  late  hyr  undrestond  off  the  article  off  the  trete 
between  Syr  Wylliam  Yelverton  and  me. 

Item,  my  Lorde  of  Warwyk,  as  it  is  supposyd,  schall  goo 
with  the  Kynge  in  to  Lyncolne  schyre  ;  some  men  seye  that 
hys  goyng  shall  doo  goode,  and  som  seye  that  it  dothe 
harme. 

I  praye  yow  evyr  have  an  eyghe  to  Caster,  to  knowe  the 
rewle  ther,  and  sende  me  worde,  and  whyther  my  wyse  Lorde 
and  my  Lady  be  yit  as  sottyt  [?  besotted']  uppon  it  as  they  were  ; 
and  whether  my  seyd  Lorde  resortythe  thyddre  as  offte  as  he 
dyd  or  nott ;  and  off  the  dysposvcion  off  the  Contre. 

J.  P.,  K. 


743 

ANONYMOUS  TO  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 

To  my  Cosyn^  J.  Paston. 

MAicH  27  r  I  ^HE  King  camme  to  Grantham,  and  ther  taried  Thoresday 
I  all  day  ;  and  ther  was  headed  Sir  Thomas  Dalalaunde, 
and  on  John  Neille,  a  greate  capteyn  ;  and  upon  the 
Monday  next  after  that  at  Dancastr,  and  ther  was  headed  Sir 
Robert  Wellys,  and  a  nothr  greate  capteyn  ;  and  than  the 
King  hadde  warde  that  the  Duk  of  Clarence  and  the  Erie 
of  Warwick  was  att  Esterfeld  \Chesterfield\  xx.  mile  from 
Dancastre. 

^  [From  Fenn,  ii.  36.]     This  letter  gives  an  account  of  the  suppression  of  the 
rebellion  in  Lincolnshire  in  1470. 

70 


EDWARD  IV 

And  upon  the  Tewesday  att  ix.  of  the  bell,  the  King  toke     1470 
the  feld,  and  mustered  his  people  ;  and  itt  was  seid  that  wer  march  27 
never    seyn  in   Inglond   so  many    goodly   men,  and  so  well 
arreiyed  in  a  feld.      And  my  Lord  was  whorsshupfully  accom- 
panyed,  no  lord  ther  so  well ;  wherfor  the  King  gaffe  my  Lord 
a  greate  thanke. 

And  than  the  Duk  of  Clarence  and  the  Erie  of  Warwik 
harde  that  the  King  was  comyng  to  them  warde,  in  contynent 
they  departed  and  wente  to  Manchestre  in  Lancasshire,  hopyng 
to  have  hadde  helpe  and  socour  of  the  Lord  Stanley,  butt  in 
conclucion  ther  they  hadde  litill  favor,  as  itt  was  enformed  the 
King,  and  so  men  sayn  they  wente  westward,  and  sommen 
demen  to  London.  And  whan  the  King  harde  they  wer 
departed  and  gon,  he  went  to  York,  and  came  theder  the 
Thoresday  next  aftr,  and  ther  camme  in  to  hym  all  the  gentil- 
men  of  the  shire  ;  and  uppon  our  Lady  Day  [he]  made  Percy 
Erie  of  Northumberland,  and  he  that  was  Erie  affore  Markeys 
Muntakew.  And  [so]  ^  the  King  is  purposed  to  come  south- 
warde,  God  send  hym  god  spede. 

Writen  the  xxvij.  day  of  March. 

For  Trowyth. 


744 

ABSTRACT  2 

William  Worcester  to 


Letter  in  English,  on  paper  (signed  W.  W.,  but  unaddressed),  desiring  I47O 
some  one  to  propose  to  *  my  Lord'  [the  Bishop  of  Winchester  ?]  the  obtaining 
of  a  letter  from  Sir  John  Paston  to  the  tenants  of  Titchwell  that  he  will  not 
claim  any  rents  from  them,  and  another  from  'my  Lord,'  to  the  same  effect,  on 
behalf  of  Sir  William  Yelverton ;  and  the  sending  a  warrant  to  expend  4  or  6 
marks  upon  making  up  the  sea  banks  before  the  Titchwell  pastures,  because  at 

1  This  word  is  not  in  the  text  of  Fenn's  literal  transcript,  but  it  Is  given  without 
brackets  in  the  transcript  In  modern  spelling. 

2  [From  MS.  Titchwell,  120,  in  Magdalen  College,  Oxford.]  From  Internal  evidence 
it  would  seem  that  this  letter  must  have  been  written  shortly  before  that  which  follows 
It.  The  abstracts  of  these  two  letters  have  been  kindly  supplied  to  me  by  Mr. 
Macray. 

71 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1470  Spring  the  sea  breaks  in  upon  them.  Desires  to  know  whether  Sir  W.  Yelver- 
ton's  advice  shall  be  taken  upon  business  matters.  '  Frere  '  Geffrey  Westvale 
is  going  to  be  created  Doctor  in  Theology  at  Cambridge,  at  the  Feast  of  St. 
John,  who  twenty  years  past,  when  at  Yarmouth  convent,  belonged  to  '  my 
Maister  Fastolf '  ;  and  Sir  Thomas  Howys,  a  month  before  his  decease,  pro- 
mised to  help  him  on  Mr.  FastolPs  order.  He  would  have  come  now  to  '  my 
Lord  '  to  ask  his  alms  had  not  the  writer  letted  him.  Desires  to  be  informed 
whether  '  my  Lord  '  will  help  him.  '  Maister  Briston  yn  lykewyse  Maister 
Spicer,  and  Maister  Stevyns,  trustyn  appon  me  and  dyvers  others  to  speke  to 
my  Lord  for  a  relyeve,'  and  Thomas  Fastolf  and  Milcent  Fastolf,  and  many 
others,  '  that  make  me  noyed  and  werye.' 


745 

ABSTRACT  1 

MAV  17  Letter  in  English  from  W.  Wyrcestre  to  Bishop  Wayneflete. — Has  been 

at  Tychewell  to  endeavour  to  let  the  manor  and  farm,  but  none  of  the  farmers 
there  will  take  it  without  guarantees  from  Sir  John  Paston  and  Sir  William 

Yelverton  in  writing  against  any  distraint the  younger,  who  owes 

^9,  will  come  to  the  Bishop  about  the  letting.  The  writer  represents  his  own 
poor  condition.  Has  been  at  charges  ten  years  in  London,  and  in  riding  on 
the  infinite  process  of  *  my  Maister  FastolPs  testament  yn  the  court  of  audience.' 
Is  now  obliged  to  retire  from  London  to  Cambridge  in  order  to  live  cheaply." 
Had  been  promised  25  marks  on  Paston's  behalf,  20  marks  for  ever  of  FastolPs 
lands,  5  marks  of  fee  for  his  life,  and  ^^  15  worth  of  land  for  ever.  Has  not 
-had  clearly  8  marks. 

746 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  2 

To  Syr  John  Fasten^  Knyght^  or  to  Thomas  Stompys^ 
to  delyver  to  the  seyd  Syr  John. 

JUNE  22    yj  YGHT  worchepfull  syr,  and  my  specyall  good  brodyr, 
r^       I  recomand  me  to  yow ;  and  for  as  myche  as  I  can 
not  send  yow  good  tydyngs,  ye  shall  have  syche  as  I 
knowe. 

J   [From  MS.  Titchwell,  199,  in  Magdalen  College,  Oxford.] 

2  [From  Fenn,  iv.  428.]     As  this  letter  refers  to  an  incident  in  the  siege  of 

Caister  as  having  taken  place  *  In   August  last,'  there  can  be  no  doubt  about  the 

date. 

72 


EDWARD  IV 

It  is  so  that  on  Wednysday  last  past  ye  and  I,  Pampyng,  1470 
and  Edmund  Broom  were  endyttyd  of  felonye  at  the  Sessyons  june  22 
her  in  Norwyche  for  shotyng  of  a  gonne  at  Caster  in  August 
last  past,  whyche  goone  slowghe  two  men,  I,  Pampyng  and 
Broom  as  pryncypall,  and  ye  as  accessary;  notwithstandyng 
Townysend  ^  and  Lomner  held  an  oppynyon  that  the  verdytt 
is  voyd,  for  ther  wer  ij.  of  th'enqwest  that  wold  not  agre  to 
th'endyttment.  And  in  as  myche  as  they  ij.  wer  agreyd  in 
othyr  maters,  and  not  in  that,  and  that  they  two  wer  not 
dyschargyd  fro  the  remnant  at  syche  tym  as  that  verdyth  of 
yowyr  endytment  was  govyn,  ther  oppynyon  is  that  all  the 
vordyght  is  voyde,  as  well  of  all  othyr  maters  as  of  yowyr. 
Whedyr  ther  opynyon  be  good  or  not,  I  can  not  determyne, 
nor  them  sylf  neythyr. 

I  pray  yow  let  not  thys  mater  be  slept,  for  I  can  thynk 
that  my  Lord  of  Norff.  consaylle  wyll  cawse  the  wedows  to 
tak  an  apell,  and  to  remeve  it  up  in  to  the  Kyngs  Benche  at 
the  begynyng  of  this  term.  Townysend  hathe  promysyd  me 
that  he  shall  be  at  London  on  Twysday  next  comyng,  and  then 
ye  may  comon  with  hym  in  that  mater,  and  take  hys  avyse. 

Item,  Townysend  and  Lomner  thynk  that  and  ye  have 
good  consayll,  ye  may  justyfye  the  kepyng  of  the  plase  for 
the  pesybyll  possessyon  that  ye  have  had  in  it  mor  then  iij. 
yeer  ;  but  in  conclusyon,  all  thys  is  doo  for  nowght  ellys  but 
for  to  enforse  yow  to  take  a  dyreccyon  with  my  Lord  of  Norff. 

I  undyrstood  by  R.  Sothewell — for  he  and  I  comonyd  in 
thys  mater  ryght  largely  betwyx  hem  and  me — in  so  myche 
he  tellyth  me  that  and  I  be  at  London  in  the  wek  next  aftyr 
Seynt  Petyr,  at  whych  tyme  he  shall  be  ther  hym  sylf,  he 
seyth  that  my  Lady  hathe  promysyd  me  hyr  good  ladyshep, 
and  sent  me  woord  by  hym,  in  as  myche  as  he  spak  for 
me  to  hyr,  that  she  wold  remembyr  myn  old  servyse,  and 
for  get  the  gret  dysplesyr  in  syche  wyse  that  I  shall  undyr- 
stand  that  the  swtte  that  I  have  mad  to  my  Lord  hyr  husbond 
and  hyr  shall  torne  to  your  avantage  and  myn,  more  then  we 
weene  as  yett  or  shall  undyrstand  tyll  syche  tyme  as  I  have 
spokyn  with   hyr   good   grace.     And   upon   thys   promesse  I 

1  Probably  Roger  Townsend,  afterwards  Justice  of  the  Common  Pleas. 

73 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1470    have  promysyd  Sothewell  to  meet  with  hym  at  London  that 

JUNE  22  same  weeke  next  aftyr  Seynt  Petyr  ;  wherfor  I  wold  passyngly 

fayne  that  ye  wer  in  London  at  that  season,  or  nye  abowght 

London,  so  that  I  myght  undyrstand  at  your  plase  wher  that  I 

myght  spek  with  yow  or  then  I  spek  with  my  Lady. 

I  propose  to  go  to  Canterbery^  on  foot  thys  next  week, 
with  Godds  grace,  and  so  to  com  to  London  fro  thense.  I 
pray  yow  se  that  I  be  safe  for  Parker  and  Henry  Coletts 
mater. 

Sothewell-  told  me  thys,  that  if  so  be  that  ye  wyll  your 
sylf,  ye  shall  have  bothe  goode  lordshep  and  ladyshep,  and 
mony  or  lond,  or  both,  and  all  your  maters  set  cler.  What 
that  he  menyth,  I  can  not  sey.  As  for  all  othyr  maters  in 
thys  contre,  I  shall  do  as  well  as  I  may  for  fawt  of  monye  tyll 
I  spek  with  yow.  I  have  many  collars  on,  as  I  shall  tell  yov/ 
when  I  come. 

No  more,  but  God  preserve  yow  and  yours.  Wretyn  at 
Norwyche,  Fryday  next  aftyr  Corpus  Christi  Daye. 

J-  p- 

I  ded  as  myche  as  I  kowd  to  have  lettyd  th'endyttment, 
but  it  wold  not  be,  as  I  shall  enform  you  ;  and  Townysend 
knowyth  the  same. 

747 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON » 

To  Syr  John  Pas  ton,  Knyght,  or  to  'Thomas  Stomppys, 
to  delyver  to  the  seyd  Syr  John. 

JUNE  25       A     S  I  sent  yow  woord  by  a  lettyr  that  John  Wymondham 

/-%       browght   to   London,   J.   Pampyng   is   endyghtyd  of 

^  felony,  and  Edmund  Broon  as  princypallys,  and  ye  as 

axcessary,  for  schotyng  of  agonne  in  Awgust  last  past,  whyche 

1  On  pilgrimage  to  the  shrine  of  Saint  Thomas  Becket,  I  suppose. — F. 

2  Richard  Southwell,  Esq.  of  Wood-Rising.     He  acquired  this  estate  by  marrying 
Amy,  daughter  and  co-heir  of  Sir  Edmund  Wichingham,  Knight. —  F. 

3  [From  Fenn,  iv.  4.34.]     This  letter,  it  will  be  seen,  refers  in  the  beginning  to 
the  same  matter  as  the  preceding. 

74 


EDWARD  IV 

gonne  kyllyd  ij.  men;  and  I  trowe  that  my  Lord  of  Norff.  1470 
consayll  wyll  make  on  of  the  wedows,  or  bothe,  to  swe  an  J"ne  253 
apell  up  on  the  same  endyghtment  thys  terme.  Wherfor  I 
pray  yow  se  well  to  thys  mater,  that  when  it  Is  sertyfyid  in  to 
the  Kyngys  Benche,  Broom  and  Pampyng  may  have  warnyng 
that  they  may  purvey  for  hem  self,  if  ther  com  eny  capyas 
owght  for  hem.     Townysend  can  tell  yow  all  the  mater. 

Also  ye  must  in  eny  wyse  be  ware,  for  my  grauntdam  ^ 
and  myn  Lady  Anne  ^  and  myn  Oncyll  Wyllam  shall  be  at 
London  within  thes  viij.  or  x.  dayis,  and  I  wot  well  it  is  for 
nowght  ellys  but  to  make  myn  Oncyll  Wyllam  swyr  of  hyr 
lond,  notwithstandyng  she  hath  reryd  affyn  of  it  be  for 
Goodreed,^  the  Justyse,  in  my  grauntfadyrs  dayis,  and  my 
modyr  tellyth  me  that  ye  have  the  copye  of  the  same  fyne  ;  I 
wold  avyse  yow  to  have  it  redy,  what  so  evyr  betyd.  I  trow 
they  wyll  be  the  more  besy  abowght  the  same  mater,  because 
they  thynk  that  ye  dar  not  com  in  London,  nor  at  West- 
menstyr  to  lett  [stop]  them  ;  but  if  so  be  that  ye  have  not  the 
copy  of  the  same  fynne,  look  that  ye  spare  for  no  cost  to  do 
serche  for  itt,  for  it  wyll  stand  yow  on  hand,  I  feell  by  the 
werkyng. 

Thys  day  sevennyght  I  trust  to  God  to  be  forward  to 
Caunterbery  at  the  ferthest,  and  upon  Saterday  com  seven- 
nygh  I  tryst  to  God  to  be  in  London ;  wherfor  I  pray  yow 
leve  woord  at  yowr  plase  in  Fleet  Strett  wher  I  shall  fynd 
yow,  for  I  purpose  not  to  be  seyn  in  London  tyll  I  have 
spook  with  yow. 

I  pray  yow  remembyr  thes  maters,  for  all  is  doon  to  make 
yow  to  drawe  to  an  ende  with  thes  Lordys  that  have  your 
lond  fro  yow.  No  more,  but  I  pray  God  send  yow  your 
herttys  desyir  in  thees  maters  and  in  all  othyr. 

Wretyn  at  Norwyche,  the  Monday  next  aftyr  Seynt  John 
Baptyst.  J.  P. 

1  Agnes  Paston,  widow  of  William  Paston,  the  Judge. 

2  Anne,  daughter  of  Edmund  Beaufort,  Duke  of  Somerset,   married   William 
Paston,  the  uncle  of  Sir  John  Paston. — F. 

3  William  Goodrede  was  created  a  Serjeant-at-Law  in  1425.     In   143 1  he  was 
appointed  King's  Serjeant,  and  in  1434  became  a  Justice  of  the  King's  Bench. — F. 

75 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


748 

ABSTRACT  1 

1470  Indenture  between  Sir  John  Paston  and  Edmund  Shaa,  goldsmith,  London, 

JULY  3     concerning  20  dishes  and  a  saucer  of  silver  pledged  to  the  latter,  3rd  July  10 
Edw.  IV. 


749 

ABSTRACT 2 

JULY  8  Indenture,  dated  London,  8th  July  10  Edw.  iv.,  whereby  Sir  John  Paston 

places  in  pawn  to  Stephen  Kelke,  goldsmith,  of  London,  16  pottingers,  weigh- 
ing 22  lb.  io|  oz.  Troy  weight,  for  ^40,  till  Whitsuntide  following. 


750 

ABSTRACTS  ^ 

Fastolf's  Lands 

JULY  14  '  II.  A  triparted  indenture  betweene  William  Bishop  of  Winton  and  John 

Paston,  Knight,  and  others,  touching  the  intent  of  two  feoffmentes  of  the  Bishop 
of  Wynton,  the  one  of  the  manners  of  Drayton  and  Tolthorp,  in  the  county  of 
Norfolk  and  the  city  of  Norwich,  which  were  somtymes  Sir  John  Falstofs ; 
the  other  of  the  mannors  of  Wynterton,  cald  Bregmiles  (?),  of  Reppys  in  Bast- 
wyke,  the  third  part  of  the  manner  of  Rowneham,  londes  and  tenementes  cald 
Cutts  in  Haringby,  and  lands  cald  Buley  in  Stokesby,  to  Guy  Fairfax,  John 
Paston,  Squier,  et  aliis.     July  14,  Edw.  iv.  10.' 

'  17.  Relaxatio  Johannis  Paston,  Georgii  Arch.  Cant,  et  aliorum  Willielmo 
Waynflet  totius  juris  de  et  in  omnibus  maneriis,  terris,  &c.  qux  fuerunt  Johannis 
Falstolf  in  comit'  Norf.,  exceptis  manerio  de  Castre  et  Spensers  in  Haringby,  ac 


'  [From  Paston  mss.] 

2  [From  Add.  Charter  17,249,  B.M.] 

3  The  following  entries  are  taken  from  the  old  index  of  deeds  and  writings  re- 
lating to  Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  preserved  in  the  tower  of  Magdalen  College,  Oxford. 

76 


EDWARD  IV 

terris  vocat'  Vaux,  Redham,  et  Bosoms,  et  maner'  de  Hayleydon,  Drayton,  et      I470 
Tolthorp.     Julii  14,  Edw.  iv.  10.'  july  14 

'28.  An  indenture  contayning  mutuall  releases  of  the  Bishop  of  Wynton  to 
John  Paston,  Knight,  et  c''.     July  14,  Edw.  iv.  10.' 

'29  and  61.  An  indenture  containing  the  agreement  betweene  Wylliam 
Wainflet,  Bishop  of  Wynton,  and  Sir  John  Paston,  concerning  Sir  John 
Fastolfes  landes  and  goods.     July  14,  Edw.  iv.  10.' 

This  last  document,  of  which  there  is  another  copy  or  draft,  numbered  36 
in  the  Index,  is  more  fully  described,  as  follows,  by  Mr.  Macray,  in  the  Fourth 
Report  of  the  Historical  mss.  Commission  : — 

1 470,  14  July,  10  Edw.  IV.  Indenture  tripartite  (very  long,  in  English) 
between  Bishop  Wayneflete  and  Sir  John  Paston,  Knight,  containing  an  agree- 
ment for  the  termination  of  disputes  between  the  executors  of  the  will  of  Sir 
John  Fastolf,  whereby  the  property  of  the  latter  has  been  much  wasted ; 
dividing  the  manors  between  the  Bishop  and  Paston,  and  providing  for  the 
foundation  of  seven  priests  and  seven  poor  scholars  in  Magdalene  College ; 
Paston  to  deliver  up  all  deeds  and  muniments  to  the  Priory  of  St.  Mary 
Overy,  in  Southwark,  to  be  put  in  a  chest,  locked  with  two  locks  and  two 
keys,  of  which  the  Bishop  to  have  one  and  Paston  the  other,  and  the  Bishop  to 
bring  thither  also  all  his  deeds ;  one  part  of  this  indenture  to  remain  with  each 
of  the  parties,  and  the  third  with  the  Prior  of  St.  Mary  Overy. 


PAMPYNG  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

'To  my  most  reverent  and  worshipfull  master^  Sir 
John  Paston^  Knyght. 

RIGHT  worshipfull  sir  and  my  good  master,  I  recomaund  july  15 
me  unto  yow  in  my  moost  lowly  wise.  And  please 
yow  to  wete  I  have  with  the  mony  ye  sent  me  by 
Judy  rewardid  my  felaship  as  ye  comaundid,  wretyn  in  a  bille 
closid  herin  ;  and  as  for  William  Milsent  I  lete  hym  wete 
hough  ye  undirstood  he  was  disposed  to  goo  hoom  to  his 
fadere,  wherof  ye  were  pleasid  and  wold  he  shuld  do  so.     He 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]    Reference  is  made  in  this  letter  to  the  appeal  which 
the  two  widows  were  to  sue  against  Sir  John  Paston.     See  Nos,  746,  747. 

77 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1470  said  he  intendid  not  to  be  with  his  fadir,  ner  it  was  not  in 
JULY  1 5  his  power  so  to  do  ;  nevirthelesse  he  is  home  to  his  fadir  and 
ther  abidith,  but  what  he  purposith  to  do  1  wote  not.  Davy- 
is  at  home  and  takyth  heed  to  his  lond.  Homeworth  is  con- 
tent and  gooth  to  his  labour.  As  for  Stompis,  I  have  be  with 
the  Abbot  of  Sen  Benetts  for  hym  as  ye  comaundid.  And  he 
recomaundith  hym  to  yow,  and  said  to  me  he  was  right  glad 
that  ye  wold  send  to  hym  for  any  servaunt  ye  had,  saying 
that  if  he  coud  do  any  thyng  for  yow,  and  for  any  servaunt 
of  yours,  he  wold  do  it  feithfully.  And  also  he  said  he  wold 
not  fayle  yow  whill  he  levid  in  that  he  coud  and  myght  do, 
trustyng  heraftir  to  have  your  help  and  favour  in  that  he  shall 
have  a  do.  And  he  told  me  and  Stompis  bothe,  whanne  so 
evir  he  come  he  shuld  be  welcome,  and  that  he  wold  do  as 
welle  to  hym  as  to  fewe  servauntes  he  had  for  yowr  sake, 
and  that  he  wold  kepe  hym  for  yow.  As  for  my  self  my 
mastres  saith  she  woll  geve  me  mete  and  drynk  for  a  season  ; 
nevirthelesse  I  am  warnyd  to  be  ware,  for  it  is  told  me  that 
ther  is  processe  out  upon  the  appele  ayens  me  and  other  ; 
wherfore  I  beseche  yow  that  that  mater  may  be  take  heed  to 
as  ye  may,  that  we  myght  have  knowlech  of  any  processe 
ther  be,  that  we  may  be  ware,  for  I  thynk  verely,  and  I  or 
any  other  come  in  ther  hands  this  world,  we  shuld  not  escape 
without  shame  at  the  leest. 

Item,  as  for  the  remnaunt  of  the  mony  biside  this  bille,  ye 
owe  to  the  parson  of  Sent  Edmondes  Caster  for  iiij.  combe 
malt,  and  ij.  combe  whete,  xs.  whiche  I  promysid  hym  to  pay  ; 
and  Rob.  Newton  lymebrenner  for  lyme,  xiijj.  iiij<^.,  calling 
upon  me  for  it ;  and  Robert  Bery  for  shoyng,  xs.  ;  and  if  it 
please  yow  that  I  make  payment  herof  there  shall  remayne  in 
my  handes  xxiijj.  iiij<^.  And  what  ye  woll  I  do  herin,  I  beseche 
yow  to  send  me  word.  Judy  hath  be  with  Thom  FastolfF,  he 
can  telle  yow  answer  in  that  mater.  As  for  the  rewle  at 
Caster,  they  selle  and  make  mony  of  such  stufFe  as  they  fond 
there,  and  kepe  other  rewle  that  the  contre  is  full  sory  and  irk 
of,  and  of  my  lordes  men  resortyng  to  hem,  and  riden  about 
the  contry  onknowen,  and  by  berynges  on  hand^  take  large 

*  See  vol.  ii.  p.  no,  Note  i. 

78 


EDWARD  IV 

bribys.     I  pray  God  be  your  spede  and  send  yow  some  good     1470 
meane  for  your  wele  and  ease  to  them  that  owe  yow  servise.    J^^y  15 
Wretyn  at  Norwich  the  Monday  next  aftir  Relik  Sonday, 

Your  pore  servaunt, 

Pampyng. 


MARGARET  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON^ 

IGRETE  yow  well  and  send  yow  Goddes  blissyng  and  july  M 
myne,  letyng  yow  wete  that  your  fermours  have  brought 
me  a  gret  bille  of  reparacion,  the  which  I  send  yow,  with 
\xs.  in  mony.     I  wold  have  had  the  residue  of  the  mony  of 
them,  and  they  said  it  was  your  agrement  that  this  reparacion 
shuld  be  do  and  alowed  now  at  this  payment,  and  so  I  coud 
get  no  more  mony  of  them.     And  they  say  that  the  parson  ^ 
was  prevy  to  the  reparacion.     If  ye  were  thus  agreed  and  woll 
have  the  reparacion  examined  ye  may  send  word  ;  but  I  wold 
ye  shuld  purvey  for  your  self  as  hastely  as  ye  may,  and  come 
home  and  take  heed  to  your  owne  and  to  myn  therto,  other- 
wise thanne  ye  have  do  bifore  this,  bothe  for  my  profite  and 
for  yours,  or  ellis  I  shall  purvey  for  my  self  otherwise  in  hast, 
so  that  I  trust  shall  be  more  ease  and  avayle  for  me  and  non 
ease  nor  profite  to  yow  in  tyme  to  come.     I  have  litell  help 
nor  comfort  of  non  of  yow  yet,  God  geve  me  grase  to  have 
heraftir.     I  wold  ye  shuld  assay  whedir  it  be  more  profitable 
for  yow  to  serve  me  thanne  for  to  serve  such  masters  as  ye 
have  servid  afore  this,  and  that  ye  fynde  mooste    profitable 
theraftir  do  in  tyme  to  come.       Ye  have  assayed  the  werld 
resonabilly,  ye  shall  knowe  your  self  the  bettir  heraftir.     I  pray 
God  we  may  be  in  quyete  and  in  rest  with  oure  own  from  hens 
forth.     My  power  is  nat  so  good  as  I  wold  it  were  for  your 
sake  and  other  ;    and  if  it  were,  we  shuld  not   longe    be  in 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter,  although  subscribed  <  By  your  mother,' 
is  neither  signed  nor  addressed.  It  is,  however,  undoubtedly  from  Margaret  Paston 
to  her  son  Sir  John.  It  is  written  in  Pampyng's  hand,  and  seems  to  be  of  the  same 
year  as  his  own  letter  immediately  preceding,  which  is  dated  on  the  same  day. 

*  Sir  Thomas  Howes. 

79 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1470    daungere.     God  brynge  us  oute  of  it ;   who  have  yow  in  His 
JULY  15  kepynge.     Wretyn  with  onhertes  ease  the  Monday  next  aftir 
Relike  Sonday.  By  your  Modir. 


753 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

Pas  ton  ^  &c. 

AUG.  5  -pj  ROTHER,  I  comand  me  to  yow,  &c.  .  .  }  Also 
1"^  telle  John  Pampyng  that  the  mayde  at  the  BuUe  at 
-'-^  Cludeys  at  Westminster  sent  me  on  a  tyme  by  hym  to 
the  Moor  a  rynge  of  goolde  to  a  tookne,  whyche  I  hadde  not 
off  hym.  Wherffor  I  woUe  he  scholde  sende  it  hyedre,  ffor 
sche  most  have  itt  ageyn,  or  ellys  vj.,  ffor  it  was  not  hyrrys. 
Item,  I  praye  yow  be  redye  ;  the  mater  qwykennythe  bothe 
ffor  yowe  and  yowres  as  well  as  ffor  us  and  howrys. 

As  ffor  tydynges,  my  Lorde  Erchebysshop  ^  is  at  the  Moor, 
but  ther  is  beleffte  with  hym  dyverse  off  the  Kynges  servantes, 
and  as  I  understond  he  hathe  lysence  to  tarry  ther  tyll  he  be 
sente  ffor.  Ther  be  many  ffolkes  uppe  in  the  northe,  soo  that 
Percy  ^  is  not  able  to  recyst  them ;  and  soo  the  Kynge  hathe 
sente  ffor  hys  ffeeodmen  to  koom  to  hym,  for  he  woll  goo  to 
putt  them  downe.  And  soom  seye  that  the  Kynge  sholde 
come  ageyn  to  London,  and  that  in  haste,  and  as  it  is  sayde 
Cortenayes  be  londyd  in  Devenschyr,  and  ther  rewle. 

Item,  that  the  Lordes  Clarance  and  Warwyk  woll  assaye 
to  londe  in  Inglonde  evyrye  daye,  as  ffolkes  ffeer. 

I  praye  yow  late  not  John  Mylsent  be  longe  ffrom  me,  with 
as  moche  as  can  be  gaderyd  :  and  also  that  ye  wryght  to  me 
off  all  thynges  that  I  have  wretyn  to  yow  ffor,  so  that  I  may 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  46.]  This  letter,  as  it  will  be  seen  from  the  contents,  was 
written  at  the  period  just  before  the  restoration  of  Henry  vi. 

2  Here  follows  an  order  about  searching  for  some  writings,  etc. — F. 

3  This  must  mean  George  Neville,  Archbishop  of  York,  and  brother  to  the  Earl 
of  Warwick,  who  seems  to  have  been  suspected  by  the  King,  and  left  at  the  Moor  as 
a  kind  of  state  prisoner. — F. 

*  Henry  Percy,  who  was  restored  to  the  Earldom  of  Northumberland  this  year  on 
its  surrender  by  John  Nevill,  Lord  Montague.     See  No.  743. 

80 


EDWARD  IV 

have  answer  oiF  every  thy nge.     Other  thynges  Bacheler  Walter,     1470 
berer  herofF,  schall  informe  yow  a"g-  5 

Wretyii    at    London,    the    Sondaye    nexte    befFor    Seynt 
Lawrence  Daye.^ 

Also   my  brother  Edmonde  is  not  yet  remembryd.     He 
hathe  not  to  lyff  with,  thynk  on  hym,  &c. 

John  Paston,  Kt. 


754 

ABSTRACT  2 

Indenture,  dated  London,  7th  Aug.,  10  Edw.  iv,,  whereby  Sir  John  Paston     aug.  7 
puts  in  pawn  to  Ric.  Rawlyn  of  London,  grocer,  2  chargers  and  4  potengers, 
weighing  11  lb.  if  oz   silver,  for  ^^ 20,  till  Whitsunday  following. 


755 

ABSTRACTS 

147c,  10  Aug.,  10  Edw.  IV.,  at  Eshher.  Undertaking  in  English  by  John 
Paston,  Esq.,  son  of  John  Paston,  Esq.,  who  was  one  of  the  feoffees  and  executors 
of  Sir  John  Fastolf,  that  whereas  Bishop  Waynflete,  also  one  of  the  feoffees,  and 
now  sole  executor,  has  taken  upon  him  to  perform  the  will  of  the  said  Sir  John, 
so  far  forth  as  it  may  be  performed  (it  being  in  most  substance  not  yet  performed, 
and  his  property  wasted  and  devoured),  out  of  his  manors  and  lands  in  Essex, 
Surrey,  Norfolk,  Suffolk,  and  the  city  of  Norwich,  he  (the  said  John  Paston)  will 
do  true  and  faithful  service  to  the  said  Bishop,  and  will  be  aiding  and  assisting  to 
him  and  Magdalen  College,  in  order  that  the  lands  may  be  let  to  their  greatest 
profit,  he  being  rewarded  by  the  Bishop,  to  show  his  very  good  will  to  the  due 
performing  of  Fastolf's  will  ;  and  that  before  the  Feast  of  All  Saints  next  he 
will  deliver  up  to  the  said  Bishop  all  charters,  deeds,  evidences,  rentals,  accounts, 
etc.,  pertaining  to  any  of  the  said  manors,  excepting  such  as  concern  solely  the 
manor  of  Castre,  which  by  covenant  of  the  said  Bishop  with  Sir  John  Paston, 
Knight,  brother  of  the  said  John  Paston,  Squire,  must  remain  with  the  same 
Sir  John. 


^  St.  Laurence's  day  is  the  loth  of  August. 

2  [From  Add.  Charter  17,250,  B.M.] 

3  The  following  abstract,  like  some  others  preceding,  is  taken  from  Mr.  Macray's 
Report  to  the  Historical  mss.  Commission  on  the  Records  of  Magdalen  College, 
Oxford. 

VOL.  v.— F  81 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


7S^ 

ABSTRACTS! 

Painter's  Work 

1470  ^'  Account  of  payments  to  Robert  Spery,  servant  of  Vyol,  and  others,  for 

working  at  the  Frerys  ^  in  June  and  July  ;   also  for  varnish,  lead,  earthen  pans, 
yellow  ochre,  oil,  bristles  to  make  brushes,  etc.,  for  painter's  work. 

Endorsed:  '  Vialles  byll  comprisid  in  the  iij.  rolles  of  stuff  and  werkmanship 
to  A.  P. 3  place  and  the  Freris,  which,  as  Clargynet  understondith,  is  paid  to 
Viall.' 

'  Memorandum  :  j.  copy  of  this  bill  remayneth  amonges  the  billes  of  werk- 
manship at  the  White  Freres  and  Baretts  place,  and  a  noder  among  the  billes  of 
plate  and  Vialles  plegis.' 

2.  '  Bill  indented,'  15th  Aug.  10  Edw.  iv.,  between  William  Paston,  Esq., 
and  Thomas  Vyall  of  Norwich,  painter,  relative  to  the  pledging  of  certain  coral 
beads  and  plate  to  the  former,  for  ^5. 

3.  Account  of  sums  owing  to  one  Vyall  for  certain  persons  'at  the  Freris,' 
during  August,  September,  and  October.     Total,  32J.  loci. 

Endorsed:  '  Viall's  reckoning  written  in  the  roll  of  the  Freris  werke  not 
paid,  and  must  be  allowed  of  the  ^5  that  was  lent  to  Viall  not  yet  content 
again. 

*  Memorandum  :  one  copy  of  this  bill  remaineth  amongs  the  bills  of  work- 
manship at  the  White  Freris  and  Baretts  place,  and  another  bill  amongs  the 
bills  of  plate  and  pledges.' 


757 

Fastolf's  College* 

AUG.  27  *  4'  '^ohn  Paston,  Squier,  bindes  himself  to  doe  true  and  faithfuU  service  to 

the  Bishop  of  Winton,  and  to  be  ayding  to  his  college  and  other  his  officers  and 
tenants,  for  the  landes  of  Sir  John  Falstolf,  and  to  deliver  to  him  all  deedes, 
evidences,  etc.,  except  such  as  concerne  the  manor  of  Castre.  Aug.  27, 
Edw.  IV.  10.' 


1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

2  Apparently  the  White  Friars  at  Norwich.  3  AgneR  Paston's  ? 
*  This  entry  is  from  the  same  old  index  of  deeds  in  Magdalen  College,  Oxford, 

referred  to  in  previous  Nos. 

82 


EDWARD  IV 


758 

EDWARD  IV.  TO  WILLIAM  SWAN  1 
"To  oure  welbelovid  William  Swan^  Gentilman. 
R.  E.  By  the  King. 

TRUSTY  and  welbeloved,  we  grete  you  well.  And  for  1470 
soo  muche  as  we  be  credibly  acertayned  that  our  sept.  7 
auncient  ennemyes  of  Fraunce  and  our  outward 
rebells  and  traitors  be  drawe  to  gadre  in  acorde,  and  en- 
tende  hastily  to  lande  in  our  countre  of  Kent,  or  in  the  parties 
therof  ner  adjonyng,  with  grete  might  and  power  of  Frenshe- 
men,  utterly  to  destroie  us  and  our  true  subgietts,  and  to 
subverte  the  comon  wele  of  the  same  our  royalme  :  We 
straitly  charge  and  commaunde  you,  upon  the  feyth  and 
liegeaunce  that  ye  bare  unto  us,  that  ye  arredie  you  with 
alle  the  felaship  ye  can  make,  and  as  sone  as  ye  may  undre- 
stonde  that  thay  lande  in  our  said  countie  or  nerbye,  that  you 
draw  thider,  as  we  have  comaunded  othere  our  subgietts  to 
doo,  and  put  you  in  uttremost  devoir  with  thaim  to  resiste  the 
malice  of  our  said  ennemyes  and  traitours ;  and  if  thai  and  ye  be 
not  of  power  soo  to  doo,  that  thanne  ye  drawe  you  to  our  citie 
of  London,  by  which  tyme  we  trust  to  be  there  in  our  owne 
personne  or  nerby  ;  and  if  we  be  not  that,  that  thanne  ye  do 
farther  all  ye  shal  bee  commaunded  by  our  Counsail  there, 
upon  the  payne  above  said. 

Yeven  undre  oure  signet  at  oure  citie  of  York,  the  vij.  day 
of  Septembr. 

1  [From  Fenn,  iv.  438.]  This  letter  does  not  properly  belong  to  the  Paston 
correspondence.  It  was  copied  by  Fenn  from  an  original  in  the  libraiy  of  Brigg 
Price  Fountaine,  Esq.  of  Narford,  in  Norfolk,  nephew  and  heir  of  the  celebrated 
antiquary,  Sir  Andrew  Fountaine.  The  MS.  was  contained  in  a  volume  of  State 
Papers,  some  of  them  originals,  and  some  copies,  of  various  dates,  which  had  belonged 
to  Sir  Edward  Coke. 

The  date  of  the  document  is  undoubtedly  in  September  1470,  when  Edward  was 
at  York,  anticipating  the  invasion  of  Clarence  and  the  Earl  of  Warwick,  aided  by  tlie 
King  of  France. 

83 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

Henry    VI,    Restored 
759 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  i 

To  my  ryght  worchipfull  Modyr,  Margaret  Paston, 
be  thys  delyuered. 

1470  A  FTYR  humbyll  and  most  dew  recommendacyon,  as 
OCT.  12  Z-^  lowly  as  I  can,  I  beseche  yow  of  yowr  blyssyng. 
Plesyt  yow  to  wet  that,  blyssyd  be  God,  my  brodyr 
and  I  be  in  good  hele  ;  and  I  tryst  that  we  shall  do  ryght  well 
in  all  owyr  maters  hastyly  ;  ffor  my  Lady  of  NorfF.^  hathe 
promyssyd  to  be  rewlyd  by  my  Lord  of  Oxynforthe^  in  all 
syche  maters  as  belonge  to  my  brodyr  and  to  me  ;  and  as  for 
my  Lord  of  Oxynforthe,  he  is  bettyr  Lord  to  me,  by  my 
trowthe,  than  1  can  wyshe  hym  in  many  maters  ;  for  he  sente 
to  my  Lady  of  NorfF.  by  John  Bernard  only  for  my  mater, 
and  for  non  othyr  cause,  my  onwetyng  [i.e.  without  my 
knowledge],  or  wythout  eny  preyer  of  me,  for  when  he  sente 
to  hyr  I  was  at  London,  and  he  at  Colchestyr,  and  that  is  a 
lyeklyod  he  remembyrthe  me. 

The  Dwk  and  the  Dwchess  swe  to  hym  as  humbylly  as  evyr 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  50.]     The  contents  of  this  letter  clearly  refer  to  the  state  of 
matters  on  the  restoration  of  Henry  vi. 

2  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  John  Talbot,  first  Earl  of  Shrewsbury,  was  the  wife  of 
John  Mowbray,  fifth  Duke  of  Norfolk. 

3  John  de  Vere,  a  staunch  Lancastrian. 

84 


HENRY  VI  RESTORED 

I  dyd  to  them  ;  in  so  myche  that  my  Lord  of  Oxynforth  shall  1470 
have  the  rwyll  of  them  and  thers,  by  ther  owne  desyirs  and  oct.  12 
gret  meanys. 

As  for  the  ofyces  that  ye  wrot  to  my  brodyr  for  and  to 
me,  they  be  for  no  poore  men  ;  but  I  tryst  we  shall  sped  of 
othyr  ofyseys  metly  for  us,  for  my  Mastyr  the  Erie  of  Oxyn- 
forthe  bydeth  me  axe  and  have.  I  trow  my  brodyr  Syr  John 
shall  have  the  Constabyllshep  of  Norwyche  Castyll,  with  xx/z. 
of  ffee  ;  all  the  Lordys  be  agreyd  to  it. 

Tydyngs,  the  Erie  of  Wyrcestyr  ^  is  lyek  to  dye  this  day, 
or  to  morow  at  the  ferthest.  John  Pylkyngton,  Mr.  W.  att 
ClyfF,  and  Fowler  ar  takyn,  and  in  the  Castyll  of  Pomfrett, 
and  ar  lyek  to  dye  hastyly,  with  owte  they  be  dead.  Sir  T. 
Mongomere  and  Joudone  be  takyn  ;  what  shall  falle  of  hem  I 
can  not  sey. 

The  Qwen^  that  was,  and  the  Dwchess  of  Bedford,^  be  in 
seyntuary  at  Westmestyr  ;  the  Bysheop  of  Ely  *  with  othyr 
Bysheopys  ar  in  Seynt  Martyns.  When  I  here  more,  I  shall 
send  yow  more.  I  prey  God  send  yow  all  your  desyrs. 
Wretyn  at  London  on  Seynt  Edwards  Evyn. 

Your  sone  and  humbyll  servant,  J.  P. 

Modyr,  I  beseche  yow  that  Brome  may  be  spoken  to,  to 
gadyr  up  my  syllvyr  at  Gwton  in  all  hast  possybyll,  for  I  have 
no  mony.  Also  that  it  lyek  yow  that  John  Mylsent  may  be 
spoken  to,  to  kep  well  my  grey  horse,  and  he  be  alyve,  and 
that  he  spare  no  met  on  hym,  and  that  he  have  konnyng 
lechys  to  look  to  hym.  As  for  my  comyng  horn,  I  knowe  no 
serteynte,  for  I  terry  tyll  my  Lady  of  NorfF.  com  to  go  thorow 
with  the  maters,  and  she  shall  not  be  here  tyll  Sonday. 

1  John   Tiptoft,   Lord   Treasurer  and   Chief-Constable   of  England.       He   was 
beheaded  on  a  charge  of  cruelty,  i8th  October  1470. 

2  Elizabeth  Woodville,  Queen  of  Edward  iv. 

?•**  3  Jaquetta  of  Luxemburg,  Duchess-Dowager  of  Bedford,  widow  of  Sir  Richard 
Woodville,  the  mother  of  Edward's  queen. 
*  William  Gray. 


85 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


760 

THE  DUKE  OF  SUFFOLK'S  MEN^ 

To  the  Baillies^  Constables ^  and  Chamberleyns  of  our 
Burgh  of  Eye,  and  to  everch  of  them. 

The  Duke  of  Suff. 

1470     XT^OR  asmuche  as  Edmond  Lee  and  John  Barker,  which 
OCT.  22      1^        were  waged  for  your  town  to  awaite  upon  us  in  the 
■""  Kings  service  to  Lincolne  Feld,   and   from   thens  to 

Excestre  and  ayen,  and  for  that  season,  as  we  be  enfourmed, 
thei  ar  not  yet  fully  contented  and  paied  of  their  wages ;  wher- 
fore  upon  the  sighte  herof  we  woll  and  charge  that  ye,  with 
oute  any  lenger  delay,  paie  them  their  hooll  duties  acording 
the  covenants  that  ye  made  with  them,  and  ye  faille  not  herof 
as  ye  entende  our  pleaser, 

Wreten  at  Wyngefeld,  the  xxij''^  day  of  Octobr. 

Suffolk. 


761 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  [JOHN  PASTON] 


2 


I 


OCT.  28    T    GRETE  you  wele  and  send   you   Goddis   blyssyng   and 

myn,  and  I  sende  you  be  the  berere  herof  all  the  sylver 

vessell  that  your  graundam  ^  makyth  so  mych  of,  which 

she  seid  I  had  of  myn  husband,  and  myn  husband  shuld  have 

had  it  of  his  fader.     And  wher  as  she  seid  that  I  shuld  have 

had  a  garneys,  I  had  ner  see  never  more  than  I  send  you,  that 

1  [From  Fenn,  iv.  448.]  The  battle  here  referred  to  as  '  Lincoln  Field  '  is  what  is 
commonly  called  the  battle  of  Stamford,  in  which  the  insurrection  of  Sir  Robert 
Welles  in  Lincolnshire  was  completely  defeated  in  March  1470.  Just  before  the  date 
of  this  document,  Edward  iv.  had  left  the  kingdom,  and  Henry  vi.  had  been  restored; 
but  perhaps  Suffolk  was  not  aware  of  the  situation,  or  did  not  recognise  it. 

2  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  206.]  This  letter  was  written  by  Margaret  Paston  to  one 
of  her  two  sons,  Sir  John  or  John,  at  a  time  when  they  were  both  together.  That 
was  the  case  in  October  1470,  as  appears  by  a  letter  of  the  younger  brother,  written  on 
the  1 2th  (No.  759),  to  the  postscript  of  which  this  seems  to  be  an  answer. 

3  Agnes  Paston,  the  judge's  widow. 

86 


HENRY  VI  RESTORED 

is  to  say,  ij.  plateris,  vj.  dysshes  and  vj.  sawceris.  The  ij.  1470 
playteris  weyn  xllij.  unces  di.,  and  the  vj.  dysshes  weyn  Ixxiiij.  oct.  28 
unces  di.  and  the  sawcers  weyn  xvij.  unces  j.  quarter.  And  I 
marvayll  that  ye  sent  me  not  word  what  an  unce  of  sylver  is 
werth  at  London  ;  for  it  had  be  lesse  joparte  to  have  sold  it 
here  and  have  sent  you  the  money  than  the  plate.  I  myght 
have  sold  it  her  for  iijs.  an  unce,  sum  xxli.  Vnjs.  njd.  Be  ware 
how  that  ye  spend  it,  but  in  acquityng  you  ageyn  such  as  ye 
be  in  daunger  to,  or  abought  the  good  speed  of  your  materis  ; 
for,  but  if  ye  take  odere  heed  to  your  expensis,  ye  shall  do 
your  self  and  your  frendis  gret  diswurchep  and  enpoveryssh 
so  them  that  non  of  us  shall  help  other,  to  owr  elmys  \_enemies'^ 
grete  comfort.  It  is  understand  ryght  now  in  this  countre  be 
such  as  cleyme  to  be  frendly  to  you  in  what  grete  daunger  and 
nede  ye  stande  in,  bothe  to  diverse  of  your  frendis  and  to  your 
elmyse.  And  also  it  is  noysed  that  I  have  departed  so  largely 
with  you  that  I  may  nowthere  help  yow,  my  self  nor  none  of 
my  frendis  ;  which  is  no  wurchep,  and  causeth  me  to  set  the 
lesse  be  us ;  and  at  this  tyme  it  compellith  me  to  breke  up 
howshold  and  to  sogeorn  ;  which  I  am  right  loth  to  have  to 
do  if  I  myght  otherwyse  have  chosyn ;  for  it  caused  gret 
clamour  in  this  town  ^  that  I  shall  do  so  ;  and  it  shuld  not 
have  neded  if  I  had  restreyned  whan  I  myght.  Therfore  for 
Goddis  sake  take  hede  here  to,  and  be  ware  from  hens  forth  ; 
for  I  have  delivered  and  sent  you  bothyn  my  parte  the  dedis 
and  yowris,  and  not  restreyned  nowthere  for  my  self  nor  the 
dede.  Where  fore  I  thynk  we  spede  and  fare  all  the  wers  ; 
for  it  is  a  fowle  slaunder  that  he  was  so  wurchepful  beried  and 
his  qwethword  not  performed,  and  so  litill  do  for  hym  sithen. 
And  now  though  I  wold  do  for  hym,  I  have  right  not  [naug/it] 
beside  my  lyffelode  that  I  may  make  any  chevysans  with,  with 
ought  grete  slaunder  ;  and  my  lyffelode  encreasith  evill,  for  I 
am  fayn  to  takyn  Mautby  in  myn  owyn  hand,  and  to  set  up 
husbandry  ther  ;  and  how  it  shall  profite  me  God  knowyth. 
The  fermour  owyth  me  \xxxli.  and  more.  Whan  I  shall  have 
it  I  wete  never.  Therfore  be  never  the  bolder  in  your  ex- 
penses for  any  help  ye  trust  to  have  of  me.     For  I  will  fro 

1  Norwich. 

87 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1470  hens  forth  bryng  my  self  ought  of  such  daunger  as  I  stand  in 
OCT.  28  for  your  sakes,  and  do  for  the  dede  and  for  them  that  I  have 
my  goodis  of;  for  till  I  do  so,  I  know  for  certeyn  that  I  shall 
fayll  grace  and  displeas  God,  How  [le^/^o]  have  you  in  His 
kepyng.  Wretyn  on  Sent  Symondis  day  and  Judes  in  hast. — 
Be  your  Moder. 

Item,  I  send  zow  ij.  sherte  clothys,  iche  of  iii.  zardis  of  the 
fynest  that  is  in  thys  towne.  I  xuld  a  dohem  mad  here  ^  but 
that  xuld  a  be  to  long  here  [ere]  ze  xuld  a  had  hem.  Zour 
Awnte "  or  sum  other  good  woman  wule  do  her  almes  up  on 
zow  for  the  makyng  of  them.  I  thank  zow  for  the  gowne 
that  ye  gave  me  Halowmesse  day  I  hope  [I  ^]  xole  be  wur- 
shuped  ther  with.  At  reverence  of  God,  be  ware  and  take 
hed  to  soche  thynggis  as  is  wretyn  with  ynne  thys  letter. 
Telle  your  brother  that  the  mony  is  not  zet  cownyd  that  I 
xuld  send  hym  for  thersarsenet  (sic)  and  damaske  that  I  spake 
to  hym  foor.  As  for  the  damaske  that  may  be  forebore  tylle 
the  nexte  terme,  but  as  for  the  sarsenet  I  woold  have  yt  and  yt 
mythe  be,  for  I  goo  in  my  rentis.  Late  zour  brothere*  see 
thys  letter.  As  fore  your  syster^  I  can  send  zow  no  good 
tydyngges  of  her,  God  make  her  a  good  wooman. 

762 
SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 

To  John  PastoHy  Esquyere,  in  haste. 

NOV.  15     1  '\  ROTHER,  I  comand  me  to  yow,  praying  yow  that  thys 

1^     be  yow  guydyng,  if  other  folkys  wy[ll]  agree  to  the 

"^^^     same,  that  Mr.  Roos,  olde  Knevett,  ye,  and  the  wor- 

shypfullest   that   wyll   do    for   owr   sake,   as  Arblaster,   John 

1  '  I  xuld  a  dohem  mad  here '  =  I  should  have  got  them  made  here. 

2  Elizabeth,  widow  of  Robert  Poynings.  3  Omitted  in  MS. 
*  Sir  John  Paston,  if  this  letter  be  to  the  younger  brother. 

^  Margery  Paston,  now  probably  married  to  Richard  Calle. 

^  [From  Fenn,  iv.  450.]  From  what  is  said  in  this  letter  about  the  Earl  of 
Oxford,  it  is  impossible  that  it  could  have  been  written  at  any  other  time  than  during 
the  brief  restoration  of  Henry  vi.,  which  only  lasted  from  October  1470  till  April 
following. 

88 


HENRY  VI  RESTORED 

Gyneye,  Wodhows,  and  al  other  gentelmen  that  at  the  daye  1470 
wyll  be  in  Norwyche,  that  ye  all  hoU  as  on  bodye  come  to  ^ov.  15 
geder,  that  my  Lorde  of  Oxenforde  maye  ondrestande  that 
som  strenkethethe  restyth  ther  by,  whyche  if  it  be  well 
handely[d]  and  prove  in  the  handely[ng],  I  trow  Heydonnes 
parte  woll  be  but  an  easy  comparyson.  Neverthelesse  ye  than 
most  ye  be  war  of  on  \^one'\  payn,  and  that  is  thys  :  Heydon 
wyll  of  crafte  sende  amonge  yow  per  case  vj.  or  mor  with 
harneyse  for  to  sclandre  yowr  felawschep,  with  seyng  that  they 
be  ryotous  peple,  and  natt  of  substance.  Requer  the  gentel- 
men above  wretyn  that  if  any  men  be  in  Norwyche  of  the 
contre  that  ber  any  suche  harneyse,  to  do  them  leve  it  or  any 
glysteryng  byll. 

The  Meyr  and  siteseynes  of  Nowyche  wher  wonte  to  have 
asertayne^  in  harneyse  of  men  of  the  town  to  the  nombr  of  ij. 
or  iij.  or  v.*"-,  whyche  if  they  now  do  in  lyke  case,  those  wole 
owe  better  wyll  to  Mr.  Roos  and  yow  than  to  other  folkys ; 
and  if  it  be  so  that  the  thowt  nat  to  have  non  suche  at  thys 
tyme,  I  thynke  the  Meyr  woll  do  it  at  the  request  of  Mr. 
Roos  and  yow,  if  lak  of  tyme  cawse  it  not. 

Item,  be  well  war  of  Clopton,  for  he  hathe  avysed  my 
Lorde  to  be  all  to  gydre  rewled  by  Heydon,  in  so  moche  he 
hathe  reportyd  that  all  thyng  and  all  materys  of  my  Lordes, 
and  in  all  the  contre,  scholde  guydyd  by  Heydon.  If 
Clopton  or  Hygham  or  Lowes  John  be  besy,  prese  in  to 
my  Lorde  byfor  them,  for  the  be  no  Suff.^  materys,  and 
tell  the  raylyng ;  prayng  them  not  to  cawse  my  Lorde  to 
owe  hys  favor  for  the  pleser  to  som  folkys  ther  present.  For 
if  my  Lorde  favoryd  or  theye  owther,  by  lykelyed  my  Lorde 
and  they  myght  lose  vj.  tyme  as  many  frendes  as  he  scholde 
wynn  by  ther  meanes.  Also  if  ye  cowde  fynde  the  meanes, 
Mr.  R.  and  ye,  to  cawse  [the]  Meyr  in  my  Lordes  ere  to 
telle  hym,  thow  he  scholde  bynde  my  Lorde  to  concell,  that 
the  love  of  the  contre  and  syte  restyth  on  owr  syde,  and  that 
other  folkys  be  not  belovyd,  ner  nevyr  wer,  thys  wolde  do 

^  J  certain,  i.e.  a  number. 

2  I  retain  this  word  in  the  abbreviated  form  in  which  it  is  printed  in  Fenn's  literal 
transcript ;  the  copy  in  modern  spelling  reads  sufficient. 

89 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1470  nonn  harme,  if  it  be  soo  that  that  all  thynge  go  olyver 
NOV.  1 5  currant  (?)  ;  with  mor  to  remembre  that  ther  is  owt  of  that 
contre  that  be  nat  at  Norw.  besyde  me,  that  be  ryght  worshyp- 
full,  and  as  worshypfuU  as  few  be  lengyng  to  Norff,,  that  woll 
and  schall  do  my  Lorde  servyse  the  rather  for  my  sake  and 
Master  Rossys,  and  the  rather  if  my  Lorde  semyth  nat  moche 
thynge  to  Heydon  guydyng. 

Also,  the  godely  menes  wherby  ye  best  can  entrete  my 
cosyn  Sir  W,  Calthorpe  at  the  seyde  day,  wse  them  to  cawe 
hym,  if  itt  wyll  be,  to  come,  ye  in  hys  companye,  and  he  in 
yow  in  cheff  at  yow  cheff  schew,  and  Mr.  Roos  and  he  in 
company,  latyng  my  seyde  cosyn  wete  that  I  tolde  hym  ones 
that  I  scholde  meve  hym  of  a  thyng  I  trostyn  scholde  be 
encressyng  bothe  to  hys  honor  and  well. 

I  sende  yow  a  lettyr,  com  to  Norwyche  by  lyklyed  to  yow 
on  Monday  last  past.  It  come  some  what  the  lattre,  for  I 
wende  have  dyed  nat  longe  by  foer  it.  Also  I  receyved  on 
from  yow  by  Mr.  Blomvyle  yister  evyn.  Tell  my  cosyn  W. 
Yelverton  that  he  may  not  appyr  of  a  whylle  in  no  wyse.  I 
trow  my  cosyn  hys  fadr  schall  sende  hym  worde  of  the  same. 
Do  that  ye  can  secretly  that  my  Lorde  be  nat  hevy  Lorde  on 
to  hym.  It  is  undrestande  that  itt  is  doon  by  the  crafFte  of 
Heydon.  He  gate  hym  in  to  that  offyce  to  have  to  be 
ageyn  me,  and  nowe  he  sethe  that  he  hathe  don  all  that  he 
can  ageyn  me,  and  now  may  doo  no  mor;  nowe  he  wolde 
remeve  hym.  The  daye  is  comen  that  he  fastyd  the  evyn 
for,  as  an  holye  yonge  monke  fastyd  mor  than  all  the 
covent,  aftr  that  for  hys  holynesse  and  fastyng  hopyd  to  be 
abbott,  whyche  afterwarde  was  abbott ;  than  lefte  he  hys 
abstynens,  seyng,  '  The  daye  was  come  that  he  fast  the 
evyn  for.' 

Brother,  I  pray  yow  recomand  me  to  my  Lord  of  Oxford 
gode  Lordshyp.  And  wher  as  I  told  my  Lord  that  I  shuld 
have  away  ted  uppon  hys  Lordsyp  in  NorfF.,  I  wold  that  I 
myght  soo  have  don  lever  then  a  hundred  //'. ;  but  in  gode- 
feth  thos  maters  that  I  told  my  Lord  trewed  shold  lette  me 
war  not  fynyshed  tyl  yesterday.  Wherfor  yf  that  cause,  and 
also  syn  Halowmasse  every  other  day  myst  not  hold  uppe 
90 


HENRY  VI  RESTORED 

myn  heed,  nor  yet, may,  in  semech  that  sythen  the  seyd  day,  1470 
in  Westminster  Halle  and  in  other  place,  I  have  goon  with  a  nov.  15 
staffe  as  a  goste,  as  men  sayd,  more  lyke  that  I  rose  owte  of 
the  erth  then  owte  of  a  fayr  laydys  bedd ;  and  yet  am  in  lyke 
case,  savyng  I  am  in  gode  hope  to  amende.  Wherfor  I  be- 
shyche  hys  Lordshyp  to  pardon  me,  and  at  a  nother  tyme  I 
shall  make  dobell  amends ;  for  by  my  trouth  a  man  cowyd  not 
have  hyred  me  for  v.  mark  with  so  gode  will  to  have  ryden  in 
to  NorfF.  as  to  have  at  thys  season  ther  to  have  awaytyd  in 
hys  Lordshyp,  and  also  I  wold  have  ben  glad  for  my  Lord 
shold  have  knowyn  what  servys  that  I  myght  have  don  hys 
Lordshyp  in  that  contray. 

Item,  your  geer  ys  send  to  you,  as  Thomas  Stampes 
sayth,  savyng  Mylsents  geer  and  the  shafeson,^  whych  I 
cannot  entrete  Thomas  Stampes  to  goo  therfor  thys  iij.  or 
iiij.  days,  wherfor  I  knokkyd  hym  on  the  crowne,  &c. 

Item,  loke  that  ye  take  hyde  that  the  letter  wer  not 
broken  or  that  it  com  to  your  hands,  &c.  Wryten  at 
London,  on  Thursday  next  after  Seynt  Erkenwolds  Day,  &c. 

John  Paston,  K. 


ABSTRACT  2 

[[1470]]  6  Dec,  on  paper.  Notice  in  English  from  the  Duke  of  Norfolk  dec.  6 
to  Philippe  Cosard,  William  Dux,  and  other  of  his  servants  and  tenants  in  the 
counties  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  to  depart  out  of  the  manor  of  Castre,  and  all 
other  manors  and  lands  which  he  bought  of  Sir  W.  Yelverton  and  other  executors 
of  Sir  J.  Fastolf,  as  soon  as  they  can  conveniently  remove  all  his  stuff  and  their 
own  which  is  therein,  he  having  consented,  at  the  desire  of  the  Archbishop  of 
Canterbury,  the  Chancellor  of  England,  and  the  Bishop  of  Winchester,  to  give 
up  the  said  manor,  etc.  Signed  by  the  Duke,  '  Norff.'  Small  seal  of  arms, 
three  lions  passant,  in  chief,  a  label  of  three  points,  a  straw  round  the  seal. 


*  Chevron,  a  covering  for  a  horse's  head,  made  of  iron  and  leather. 
2  The  following  abstract  is  taken  from  Mr.  Macray's  Report  on  the  Documents 
In  Magdalen  College,  Oxford,  already  referred  to. 

91 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


764 

ABSTRACT ' 

1470  I470>  II  Dec,  49  Hen.  vi.,  <  and  of  the  readepcion  of  his  roiall  power  i.' 

DEC.  II  Release  (in  English)  from  John,  Duke  of  Norfolk,  to  Bishop  Wayneflete,  of 
the  manors  of  Castre,  Wyntertone,  Baytone,  Bastwik,  and  Tolthorpe,  in  Nor- 
folk, and  of  Caldecote,  Burneviles  or  Burnegyles,  in  Suffolk,  which  had  been 
sold  to  him  by  Nicholas,  Abbot  of  Langle,  Will.  Yelverton,  Knight,  Justice, 
Thomas  Howes,  clerk,  and  Will.  Worcetre,  and  of  which  the  said  Yelverton, 
Howes,  and  Will.  Jenney,  as  feoffees,  with  others,  for  Sir  J.  Fastolf,  of  the 
said  manors,  enfeoffed  the  said  Duke  and  others  by  deed,  dated  ist.  Oct.,  8 
Edw.  IV.  [1468],  the  said  Duke  being  informed  by  the  Archbishops  of  York 
and  Canterbury,  and  by  the  said  Bishop  of  Winchester,  that  the  said  bargain 
was  made  contrary  to  the  will  of  the  said  Sir  John  Fastolf.  Covenants  also  to 
deliver  up  all  evidences  concerning  the  same,  specially  the  said  deed  of  feoff- 
ment and  two  papers,  one  with  four  seals  specifying  the  said  bargain,  and  another 
with  three  seals  specifying  a  license  to  enter  on  all  Fastolf's  manors  till  the 
bargain  be  performed.  And  for  this  reconveyance  the  said  Bishop  pays  to  the 
said  Duke  500  marks. 

765 
ABSTRACT  2 

DEC.  24  1470,  24  Dec,  49  Hen.  vi.,  'and  of  the  readepcione  of  his  royall  power, 

the  first.'  Acknowledgment  by  '  the  highe  and  myghti  Prynce,  John,  Duke 
of  NorfF.,'  of  the  receipt  of  100  marks  from  the  Bishop  of  Winchester,  being 
part  of  250  marks  which  the  said  Bishop  has  promised  to  pay  upon  knowledge 
of  the  delivery  of  the  manor  of  Castre,  and  other  lordships  specified  in  a  writing 
between  the  said  parties,  unto  the  feoffees  of  the  said  Bishop. 


1  This  abstract  is  also  taken  from  Mr,  Macray's  Report  on  the  Documents  in 
Magdalen  College. 

^  This  abstract  is  from  the  same  report  as  the  two  last. 


92 


HENRY  VI  RESTORED 

766 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 
To  John  Paston  the  yonger,  be  this  delivered  in  hast. 

IGRETE  you  wele,  and  send  you  Godds  blyssyng  and  l47o(?) 
myn,  latyng  you  wete  that  sith  ye  departed  my  Cosyn  ^^ec.  [28] 
Calthorp  sent  me  a  letter,  compleyning  in  his  wrytyng 
that  for  asmych  as  he  can  not  be  payd  of  his  tenaunts  as  he 
hat  be  befor  this  tyme,  he  purposith  to  lesse  his  howshold,  and 
to  leve  the  streytlyer.  Wharfor  he  desireth  me  to  purvey  for 
your  suster  Anne  ;  he  seth  she  waxeth  hygh,  and  it  wer  tyme 
to  purvey  her  a  manage. 

I  marveyll  w^hat  causeth  hym  to  w^rite  so  now;  outher  she 
hath  displeased  hym,  or  ell[es]  he  hath  takyn  her  v^ith  diff- 
aught,  Therfor  I  pray  you  comune  with  my  Cosyn  Clere  at 
London,  and  wete  how  he  is  dysposyd  to  her  ward,  and  send 
me  word,  for  I  shall  be  fayn  to  send  for  her,  and  with  me  she 
shall  but  lese  her  tyme,  and  with  ought  she  wuU  be  the  better 
occupied  she  shall  oftyn  tymes  meve  me,  and  put  me  in  gret 
inquietenesse.  Remembr  what  labour  I  had  with  your  suster, 
therfor  do  your  parte  to  help  her  forth,  that  may  be  to  your 
wurchiep  and  myn. 

Item,  remembr  the  bill  that  I  spake  to  you  of,  to  gete  of 
your  brother  of  such  money  as  he  hath  receyvid  of  me  sith 
your  faders  disseas.  Se  your  Unkyll  Mautby,  if  ye  may,  and 
send  me  sume  tydyngs  as  sonee  as  ye  may.     God  kepe  you. 

Wretyn  the  Fryday  next  befor  Sent  Thomas  of  Caunter- 
bury,  in  hast. 

By  your  Moder. 

^  [From  Fenn,  iv.  288.]  This  letter  was  probably  written  in  or  about  the  year 
1470.  Anne  Paston,  the  sister  of  John  Paston,  here  mentioned,  was  married  to 
William  Yelverton,  a  grandson  of  the  Judge,  in  1474  (Itin.  W.  Wyrc.  369),  and  the 
match  had  been  already  determined  (as  will  appear  in  a  future  letter)  before  June 
1472.  At  the  date  of  this  letter  she  was  still  staying  in  Calthorpe's  household,  into 
which,  after  the  manner  of  the  times,  she  had  been  sent  for  her  education;  and 
Calthorpe  desiring  to  reduce  his  establishment,  suggested,  somewhat  earlier  than  her 
mother  anticipated,  that  it  was  time  to  provide  a  husband  for  her. 

93 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

767 

ABSTRACT  1 

1 47 1  Norfolk  and  Suffolk  Deeds,  No.  50.     'John  Paston,  Knight,  binds  him- 

FEB.  1 2  self  to  performe  all  appoyntments  made  betweene  him  and  W.  Wanflet,  Byshop 
of  Winton,  concerning  certayne  landes  which  were  Sir  John  Fastolfes.  Feb. 
12,  Hen.  VI.  49.' 

768 


ABSTRACT 


2 


FEB.  14  Release  by  John  Beauchamp,  Knight,  Lord  Beauchamp,  to  John  Paston 

and  Roger  Townesend,  Esqs.,  of  his  interest  in  the  manors  of  Castre  called 
Redhams,  Vaus,  and  Bosoms ;  and  in  the  manors  of  Begviles  in  Wyntirton, 
Spensers  in  Heryngby,  Reppes  in  Bastwyk,  and  a  third  part  of  the  manor  of 
Runham  ;  and  in  all  lands  called  Billes  in  Stokesby,  Cattes  in  Haringby,  a 
messuage  called  Dengayns  in  Yarmouth,  and  all  lands  and  tenements  in  the 
hundreds  of  East  Flegge  and  West  Flegge  in  Norfolk  ;  which  premises  Lord 
Beauchamp  lately  had  in  conjunction  with  Thomas,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
William  Yelverton,  Justice,  William  Jenney,  Serjeant-at-law,  and  William 
Paston,  now  surviving,  and  John  Radclyff  of  Attylburgh,  John  Paston,  Hen. 
Fylongley,  Esqs.,  Thomas  Howes,  clerk,  and  Thomas  Grene,  now  deceased, 
of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Ralph  Boteler,  Knight,  Lord  Sudeley,  Sir  William 
Oldhall,  Ric.  Waller,  Esq.,  Thos.  West,  Esq.,  William  Wangford,  and  Nich. 
Girlyngton. 

Dated  14th  Feb.,  49  and  i  Hen.  vi. 

769 
THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD  TO  THOMAS  VERE  ^ 

To  my  right  dere  and  welbeloved  brother,  Thomas  Veer. 

MARCH  14    ff  ^  IGHT  dere  and  welbeloved  brother,  I  command  me  hertly 

1^       unto  you ;  certyfying  you  that  I  have  receyved  your 

writing,  directed  now  laste  unto  me,  by  my  servant 

William  Cooke,  by  which  I  understande  the  faithfull  gwydyng 

1  [From  MS.  Index  in  Magd.  Coll.,  Oxford.] 

^  [From  a  MS.  in  the  Bodleian  Library.] 

3  [From  Fenn,  ii.  54.]  It  is  suthciently  apparent  from  the  contents  that  this  was 
written  during  the  restoration  of  Henry  vi.,  and  in  anticipation  of  the  attempt  by 
King  Edward,  which  was  very  soon  afterwards  successful,  to  recover  his  throne. 
Edward  in  fact  landed  at  Ravenspur  the  very  day  this  letter  was  written. 

94 


HENRY  VI  RESTORED 

and  disposicion  of  the  cuntre,  to  my  gret  cumfote  and  pleaser  ;  147 1 
which  I  dowbte  not  shall  redunde  to  the  grethest  presyng  and  march  14 
worship  that  ever  dide  till  eny  cuntre ;  certyfying  you  ferder- 
more  that  by  Nicheson  of  your  other  tydyngs  laste  send  unto 
me ;  also  thes  by  Robt.  Porter.  I  have  disposed  me  with  all 
the  power  that  I  can  make  in  Essex  and  Suffolk,  Cambryge- 
shire,  and  other  places,  to  be  on  Monday  next  comyng  at 
Bury,  which  purpose  I  intende  to  observe,  with  Godds  grace, 
towards  you  in  to  Norffolk,  to  the  assistence  of  you  and  the 
cuntre,  in  case  Edwarde  with  his  companye  had  aryved  ther, 
and  yete  I  shall  do  the  same  noughtwithstandyng ;  for  if  he 
aryve  northwarde,  like  as  ye  wete  by  likelyhode  he  shulde,  I 
caste  to  folow  and  porsew  hym.  And  where  ye  desire  that  I 
shulde  send  you  woorde  what  disposicion  shalbe  take  in  the 
cuntre  wher  ye  be,  I  desire  you  that  ye,  by  theadvyse  of  the 
gentilmen  which  ben  there,  chese  iij.  or  iiij.,  and  send  theym 
to  me  at  Bury  on  Monday  next;  and  than  I  and  they,  with 
my  Counceyle,  shall  take  a  direccion  for  the  suretie  of  all  that 
cuntre,  by  Godds  grace ;  by  whome  I  shall  send  than  to  you 
relacion,  wheder  ye  shall  remayne  still  ther  your  selff,  or 
resorte  to  me  with  all  thos  that  be  accompanyed  with  you. 
And  Jhesu  preserve  you.  At  Hithingham  [Hedingham\  the 
xiiij.  day  of  Marche. 

By  your  lovyng  brothyr, 

OXYNFORD. 

770 

THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD  TO  HENRY  SPILMAN 

AND  OTHERS  1 

To  my  right  trusty  and  welbelovyd  Henry  Spilmany  Thos.  Seyve, 
John  Seyve^  James  Radclif^  John  Brampton  the  older ^  and  to 
eche  of  them. 

TRUSTY  and  welbeloved,  I  comende  me  to  you,  lettyng  march  19 
you  witte  that  I  have  credible  tydyngs  that  the  Kyngs 
gret   enemys  and  rebellis,  acompanyed  with   enemys 
estraungers,  be  nowe  aryved,  and  landyd  in  the  north  parties 

1  [From  Fenn,  il.  58.]     This  letter  was  evidently  written  five  days  after  the  last. 

95 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

147 1  of  this  his  land,  to  the  utter  destruction  of  his  roiall  persone, 
MARCH  19  and  subversion  of  all  his  realm,  if  they  myght  atayne  ;  whom 
to  encountre  and  resiste  the  Kings  Highnesse  hath  comaunded 
and  assigned  me,  under  his  seal!,  sufficient  power  and  auctorite 
to  call,  reyse,  gader,  and  assemble,  fro  tyme  to  tyme,  all  his 
liege  people  of  the  shire  of  NorfF.,  and  other  places,  to  assiste, 
ayde,  and  strenght  me  in  the  same  entent. 

Wherfor,  in  the  Kyngs  name,  and  by  auctorite  aforesaid,  I 
straitly  charge  and  command  you,  and  in  my  owne  byhalf 
hertly  desire  and  pray  you,  that,  all  excuses  leid  apart,  ye,  and 
eche  of  you  in  your  owne  persones  defensibly  araied,  with 
asmony  men  as  ye  may  goodly  make,  be  on  Fryday  next 
comyng  at  Lynne,  and  so  forth  to  Newark,  where,  with  the 
leve  of  God,  I  shall  not  faile  to  be  at  that  tyme  ;  entendyng 
fro  thence  to  goo  foorth  with  the  help  of  God,  you,  and  my 
fryndes,  to  the  recountr  of  the  said  enemyes  ;  and  that  ye  faill 
not  hereof,  as  ye  tendre  the  weele  of  our  said  sovereygne 
Lord,  and  all  this  his  realme.  Written  at  Bury,  the  xix""  day 
of  Marche.  Oxvnford. 


771 
JAMES  GRESHAM  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  the  right  worshipfull  and  speciall  singler  maister^ 
Sir  John  Pas  ton  ^  Knyght,  be  this  delyvered. 

1471         A     FTER  due   recomendacion  hadde  with  all  my  service, 

/A       &c ^ 

^  As  for  tydyngs,  here  in  this  cuntre  be  many  tales, 

and  non  accorth  with  other.  It  is  tolde  me  by  the  Undir- 
shireve  that  my  Lord  of  Clarence  is  goon  to  his  brother,  late 
Kyng  ;  in  so  moche  that  his  men  have  the  Gorget  ^  on  their 

'  [From  Fenn,  ii.  60.]  The  political  news  in  this  letter  show  that  it  was  written 
after  the  landing  of  Edward  iv.  in  Yorkshire. 

2  '  Here,'  according  to  Fenn,  '  follow  copies  of  indictments  and  appeals  procured 
against  Sir  John  Paston  and  his  servants  ;  and  likewise  other  law  business.'  The 
indictments  and  appeals  in  question  are  doubtless  those  referred  to  in  the  next  No, 

3  A  collar  worn  round  the  neck. — F. 

96 


HENRY  VI  RESTORED 

breests,  and  the  Rose  over  it.     And  it  is  seid  that  the  Lord     147 1 
Howard  hath  proclamed  Kyng  E.  Kyng  of  Inglond  in  SufF., 
&c. 

Yours,  and  at  your  comandement, 

James  Gresham. 


772 

ABSTRACT  1 

A  Register  of  Writs,  etc.,  which  was  probably  sent  with  the  preceding 
letter.  It  is  addressed  on  the  back,  *  To  Sir  John  Paston,'  and  endorsed 
'James  Gresham,' 

Distringas  against  Sir  John  Paston,  late  of  Castre,  for  his  appearance  in  the 
King's  Bench,  Easter,  8  Edw.  iv.  'Per  Contr.  de  Anno  viij°  E.  iiij".  Ro. 
xxviij.2     Vynter.' 

Distringas  against  Sir  John  Paston  and  Ric.  Calle,  late  of  Castre,  with 
capias  against  William  Wykes,  late  of  Castre ;  Edmund  Brome,  late  of 
Redeham ;  and  John  Dawebeney,  late  of  Castre ;  Thurstan  Cokesson,  alias 
Starky,  late  of  Castre  ;  John  Pampyng,  late  of  Castre ;  and  Henry  Swete,  late 
of  Castre,  yeoman,  for  their  appearance  in  the  King's  Bench  in  Easter  to 
answer  for  offences  against  the  statute  de  ingressibtts  manu  forti.  '  Per  Contr ' 
de  Anno  viij°  E.  iiij".     Ro.  xxviij.     Vynter.' 

*  Of  these  ij.  writtes  ar  supersedeas  delyvered  to  the  Undirshirreve.' 

Writ  of  exigent  against  John  Pampyng,  late  of  Castre,  gent.,  and  Edmund 
Brome  of  Castre,  gent.,  *  Oct'  Joh'is,'  appealed  by  Cecilia,  widow  of  John 
Colman,  as  principals  in  the  death  of  her  husband.  Ro.  67.  *  Breve  istud 
deliberatur  de  recordo,  Hill.  xlix.     Sonde.' 

Another  writ  of  exigent  against  Pampyng  and  Brome  at  the  King's  suit  for 
divers  felonies  and  murders.  '  Ro.  xvj.  Per  Contr'  de  Anno  x°  E.  iiij".  Ro. 
xij"     Vynter.' 

Distringas  against  Sir  John  Paston  and  Ric.  Calle  for  their  appearance  in 
the  King's  Bench  in  Easter  term,  on  an  indictment  for  forcible  entry.  *  Per 
Contr'  de  Anno  viij°  E.  iiij".      Ro.  xxix.' 

Distringas  against  Sir  John  Paston  and  Ric.  Calle,  with  capias  against  John 
Wykes,  late  of  Castre,  Edmund  Brome,  John  Dawebeney,  and  Thurstan 
Cokesson,  alias  Starky,  late  of  Castre,  for  their  appearance  in  the  King's  Bench 
in  Easter  term,  on  an  indictment  of  forcible  entry.  '  Per  Contr'  de  Anno  viij. 
E.  iiij"'  Ro.  xxviij.     Vynter.' 

Distringas  against  Sir  John  Paston  and  Ric.  Calle,  with  capias  against  John 


1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

2  The  Controlment  Roll  8  Edw.  iv.  is  now  missing. 

VOL.  V. G  97 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

Wykes,  Edmund  Brome,  John  Dawebeney,  and  Thurstan,  etc.,  for  Easter. 
*  Per  Contr.  de  Anno  viij.      Ro.  xxviij.     Vynter.' 

Capias  against  John  Pampyng,  late  of  Castre,  Edmund  Brome,  late  of 
Redeham,  William  Bedford  and  Edmund  Mason,  late  of  Bychamwelle,  laborer, 
and  Alex,  Cok  of  Norwich,  yeoman,  '  xv.  Pasch.,'  appealed  by  Christiana, 
widow  of  Thos.  Mylys,  in  Easter  term,  as  principals  in  the  death  of  her 
husband.  Also  capias  against  William  Paston  of  Norwich  and  Ralph  Lovell  of 
Bychamwelle,  gent.,  appealed  as  accessaries.      Ro.  Ixix.     Registrum  Sonde.' 

*^*  All  the  above  writs  are  for  the  county  of  Norfolk. 


773 

ABSTRACT! 

t4yi  '30.   Relaxatio  Johannis  Paston  facta  episc.  Winton,  et  aliis  totius  juris  in 

APRIL  10   maneriis  vocat.  Akethorp  in  Leyestoft,  Spitlings  in  Gorleston,  Habland  in  Brad- 
well,  etc.,  quae  quondam  fuerunt  Johannis  Fastolf. — April  10,  Edw.  iv.  11.' 


^  This  is  another  entry  from  the  old  index  of  deeds  in  Magdalen  College, 
Oxford.  There  is  probably  some  slight  error  in  the  date,  as  Edward  iv.  was  not 
acknowledged  as  King  on  the  loth  April,  in  what  would  otherwise  have  been  the 
eleventh  year  of  his  reign.  He  was  so  acknowledged  a  few  days  later — i.e.  after  the 
battle  of  Barnet,  which  was  fought  on  the  14th  April — so  that  if  the  date  had  been, 
say,  April  20,  instead  of  April  10,  it  would  have  been  quite  consistent.  It  is  im- 
possible, however,  to  say  where  the  error  lies,  so  we  place  the  document  under  the 
date  actually  expressed  in  it. 


98 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

Edward  IV, 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  ^ 

I'd  my  Moodre. 

MOODRE,  I  recomande  me  to  yow,  letyng  yow  wette  147 1 
that,  blyssed  be  God,  my  brother  John  is  a  lyfFe  and  ^pril  18 
farethe  well,  and  in  no  perell  off  dethe.  Never  the 
lesse  he  is  hurt  with  an  arow  on  hys  ryght  arme,  be  nethe  the 
elbow  ;  and  I  have  sent  hym  a  serjon^  whyche  hathe  dressid 
hym,  and  he  telly  the  me  that  he  trustythe  that  he  schall  be  all 
holl  with  in  ryght  schort  tyme.  It  is  so  that  John  Mylsent  is 
ded,  God  have  mercy  on  hys-  sowle  !  and  Wylliam  Mylsent  is 
on  lyffe,  and  hys  other  servants  all  be  askepyd  by  all  lyklihod. 

Item,  as  ffor  me,  I  ame  in  good  case,  blyssyd  be  God  ;  and 
in  no  joparte  off  my  lyffe,  as  me  lyst  my  self;  for  I  am  at  my 
lyberte  iff  nede  bee. 

Item,  my  Lorde  Archebysshop  ^  is  in  the  Towr  ;  neverthe- 
lesse  I  trust  to  God  that  he  schall  do  well  i  noghe ;  he  hathe  a 
saffe  garde  for  hym  and  me  bothe.     Neverthelesse  we  have  ben 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  62.]  This  letter,  as  shown  by  the  contents,  was  written  just 
four  days  after  the  battle  of  Barnet,  by  which  Edward  iv.  recovered  his  throne.  It  is 
not  signed,  but  the  writer  is  Sir  John  Paston. 

2  George  Neville,  Archbishop  of  York.  It  was  from  the  custody  of  this  prelate 
that  Edward  escaped,  after  having  been  surprised  and  taken  prisoner  by  the  Earl  of 
Warwick,  in  1470  :  perhaps  the  kind  treatment  of  his  then  prisoner  now  procured  his 
pardon. — F. 

99 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

147 1  troblyd  syns,  but  nowe  I  undrestande  that  he  hathe  a  pardon  ; 
APRIL  18  and  so  we  hope  well. 

Ther  was  kyllyd  uppon  the  iFelde,  halfFe  a  myle  fFrom 
Bernett,  on  Esterne  Daye,  the  Erie  of  Warwyk,  the  Mar- 
qweys  Montacu,  Sir  William  Terrell,^  Sir  Lewes  Johns,  and 
dyverse  other  Esquiers  off  owr  contre,  Godmerston  and 
Bothe. 

And  on  the  Kynge  Edwardes  partye,  the  Lord  Cromwell,^ 
the  Lord  Saye,^  Sir  Omffrey  Bowghsher*  off  owr  contre, 
whyche  is  a  sore  moonyd  man  her,  and  other  peple  off  bothe 
partyes  to  the  nombre  off  mor  then  a  m'- 

As  for  other  tythynges,  is  undrestande  her  that  the  Qwyen 
Margrett  is  verrely  londyd  and  hyr  sone  in  the  west  contre, 
and  I  trow  that  as  to  morow,  or  ellys  the  next  daye,  the  Kynge 
Edwarde  wyll  depart  ffrom  hense  to  hyr  warde,  to  dryve  her 
owt  ageyn. 

Item,  I  beseche  yow  that  I  may  be  recomendyd  to  my  cosyn 
Lomner,  and  to  thanke  hym  ffor  hys  goode  wyll  to  me  wardes, 
iff  I  had  hadde  nede,  as  I  undrestoode  by  the  berer  heroff ;  and  I 
beseche  you  on  my  behalve  to  advyse  hym  to  be  well  ware  off 
hys  delyng  or  langage  as  yit,  ffor  the  worlde,  I  ensur  yow,  is 
ryght  qwesye,  as  ye  schall  know  with  in  thys  monthe  ;  the 
peple  heer  feerythe  it  soor. 

God  hathe  schewyd  Hym  selffe  marvelouslye  lyke  Hym 
that  made  all,  and  can  undoo  ageyn  whan  Hym  lyst ;  and  I 
kan  thynke  that  by  all  lyklyod  schall  schewe  Hym  sylff  as 
mervylous  ageyn,  and  that  in  schort  tyme  ;  and,  as  I  suppose, 
offter  than  onys  in  casis  lyke. 

Item,  it  is  soo  that  my  brother  is  on  purveyed  off  monye. 
I  have  holpyn  hym  to  my  power  and  above.  Wherffor  as  it 
pleasythe  yow  remembre  hym,  ffor  kan  not  purveye  ffor  my 
selffe  in  the  same  case. 

Wretyn  at  London  the  thorysdaye  in  Esterne  weke.  I 
hope  hastely  to  see  yow. 

1  Sir  William  Tyrell  was  cousin  to  Sir  James  Tyrell,  the  afterwards  supposed 
murderer  of  Edward  v.  and  his  brother  the  Duke  of  York. — F. 

2  Humphrey  Bourchier,  third  son  of  Henry,  Earl  of  Essex,  had  summons  to  Par- 
liament, in  1 46 1,  as  Lord  Cromwell,  in  right  ot  his  wife. — F. 

3  William  Fienes,  Lord  Say.  *  Son  of  John,  Lord  Berners. 

100 


EDWARD  IV 

All  thys  bylie  most  be  secrett.     Be  ye  not  adoghtyd  off    1471 
the  worlde,  ffor  I  trust  all  schall  be  well.     Iff  it  thusse  con-  april  18 
tenewe,  I  ame  not  all  undon,  nor  noon  off  us  ;  and  iff  other- 
wyse,  then,  &c.  &c. 

775 

[THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD]  TO  A  LADY  1 

'To  the  ryght  reverent  and  wyrchypfull  Lady} 

RYGHT  reverent  and  wyrchypfull  Lady,  I  recomande  me  1471 
to  yow,  lettyng  yow  wete  that  I  am  in  gret  hevynes  at 
the  makyng  of  thys  letter  ;  but  thankyd  be  God,  I  am 
eschapyd  my  selfe,  and  sodenly  departyd  fro  my  men  ;  for  I 
undyrstand  my  chapleyn  wold  have  detrayed  me  ;  and  if  he 
com  in  to  the  centre,  let  hym  be  mad  seuer,  &c.  Also  ye  shall 
gyff  credence  to  the  brynger  of  thys  letter,  and  I  beseke  yow 
to  reward  hym  to  hys  costs  ;  for  I  was  not  in  power  at  the 
makyng  of  thys  letter  to  gyff  hym,  but  as  I  wass  put  in  trest 
by  favar  of  strange  pepyll,  &c. 

Also  ye  shall  send  me  in  all  hast  all  the  redi  money  that  ye 
can  make,  and  asse  mone  of  my  men  asse  can  com  well  horsyd  ; 
and  that  they  cum  in  dyverse  parcellys.  Also  that  my  horsse 
be  sent,  with  my  stele  sadelles  ;  and  byd  the  yoman  of  the 
horse  cover  theym  with  ledder.  Also  ye  shall  send  to  my 
moder,^  and  let  hyr  wete  of  thys  letter,  and  pray  hyr  of  hyr 
blessyng,  and  byd  hyr  send  me  my  kasket,  by  thys  tokyn  ;  that 
she  hathe  the  key  theroff,  but  it  is  brokyn. 

Also  ye  shall  send  to  the  Pryor  of  Thetford,^  and  byd  hym 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  68.]  The  signature  of  this  letter  is  composed  of  flourishes 
which  were  probably  devised  on  purpose  to  make  it  unintelligible.  Fenn  suggests  that 
the  first  character  may  be  taken  for  an  O,  and  the  last  for  a  D ;  but  to  our  thinking 
the  resemblance  is  rather  difficult  to  trace.  There  is,  however,  great  probability  in  his 
conjecture  that  the  writer  was  the  Earl  of  Oxford,  and  the  date  just  after  the  battle  of 
Barnet. 

2  Margaret,  daughter  of  Richard  Neville,  Earl  of  Salisbury,  sister  to  the  late  Earl 
of  Warwick,  and  wife  of  John  de  Vere,  Earl  of  Oxford. — F. 

3  Elizabeth,  daughter  and  heir  of  Sir  John  Howard,  Knight,  who  was  the  grand- 
father of  John  Howard,  first  Duke  of  Norfolk  of  that  name.  She  was  now  the  widow 
of  John  de  Vere,  late  Earl  of  Oxford. 

^  John  Vescey,  Prior  of  Thetford,  from  1441  to  1479. — F. 

101 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

147 1  send  me  the  sum  of  gold  that  he  seyd  that  I  schuld  have.  Also 
sey  to  hym  by  thys  token,  that  I  schewyd  hym  the  fyrst  Prive 
Seale,  &c.  Also  lete  Pastun,  Fylbryg,  Brews,  come  to  me. 
Also  ye  shall  delyver  the  brynger  of  thys  letter  an  horsse, 
sadell,  and  brydell.  Also  ye  schallbe  of  gud  cher,  and  take  no 
thowght,  for  I  schall  brynge  my  purpose  abowte  now  by  the 
grace  of  God,  Qwhome  have  yow  in  kepyng. 

b      .     .     .     D  (?). 

776 

JOHN  PASTON  OF  GELSTON  TO  MARGARET 

PASTON  1 

APRIL  30  A  FTYR  humbyll  and  most  dew  recomendacyon,  in  as 
/-\  humbyll  wyse  as  I  can,  I  beseche  you  of  your  blyssyng, 
■^  -^  preying  God  to  reward  you  with  as  myche  plesyer  and 
hertys  ease  as  I  have  latward  causyd  you  to  have  trowbyll  and 
thowght ;  and,  with  Godys  grace,  it  shall  not  be  longe  to  or 
then  my  wronges  and  othyr  menys  shall  be  redressyd,  for  the 
world  was  nevyr  so  lyek  to  be  owyrs  as  it  is  now  ;  werfor  I 
prey  you  let  Lomnor  no  be  to  besy  as  yet.  Modyr,  I  beseche 
you,  and  ye  may  spare  eny  money,  that  ye  wyll  do  your  almesse 
on  me  and  send  me  some  in  as  hasty  wyse  as  is  possybyll ;  for 
by  my  trowthe  my  leche  crafte  and  fesyk,  and  rewardys  to 
them  that  have  kept  me  and  condyt  me  to  London,  hathe  cost 
me  sythe  Estern  Day^  more  than  v//.,  and  now  I  haue  neythyr 
met,  drynk,  ciothys,  lechecraft,  ner  money  but  up  on  borow- 
yng  ;  and  T  have  asayid  my  frendys  so  ferre,  that  they  be  gyn 
to  fayle  now  in  my  gretest  ned  that  evyr  I  was  in.  Also, 
modyr,  I  beseche  yow,  and  my  horse  that  was  at  lechecraft  at 
the  Holt^  be  not  takyn  up  for  the  Kynges  hawkys,*  that  he 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  was  printed  by  Fenn  in  his  fifth  volume, 
of  which  the  original  mss.  are  now  recovered.  It  was  evidently  written  in  April  1471, 
when  the  writer  was  recovering  from  the  wound  he  had  received  at  the  battle  of  Bamet 
{^see  No.  774.  It  is  not  addressed,  but  is  endorsed  in  a  later  hand,  '  Litera  Johannis 
Paston  armigeri  matri  sux.' 

2  The  battle  of  Barnet  was  fought  on  Easter  Day,  14th  April  147 1. 

3  A  pasture  so  called,  and  means  the  groves,  or  lands  full  of  wood. — F. 
*  This  may  signify,  in  jocular  language,  if  he  be  not  dead. — F. 

102 


EDWARD  IV 

may  be  had  horn  and  kept  in  your  plase,  and  not  to  go  owght  1 47 1 
to  watyr,  nor  no  whedyr  ellys,  but  that  the  gat  be  shet,  and  he  april  30 
to  be  chasyd  aftyr  watyr  within  your  plase,  and  that  he  have  as 
myche  met  as  he  may  ete  ;  I  have  hey  i  new  of  myn  owne,  and 
as  for  otys,  Dollys  will  purvey  for  hym,  or  who  that  dothe  it  I 
wyll  paye.  And  I  beseche  yow  that  he  have  every  wek  iij. 
boshell  of  otys,  and  every  day  a  penyworthe  of  bred  ;  and  if 
Botoner  be  not  at  Norwyche,  and  Syme  kep  hym,  I  shall  geve 
hym  well  for  hys  labore.  Also  that  Phelypp  Loveday  put  the 
othyr  horse  to  gresse  ther,  as  he  and  I  wer  acordyd. 

Item,  that  Botoner  send  me  hyddyr  the  two  shyrtys  that 
wer  in  my  casket,  and  that  he  send  me  hydyr  xh.  by  the  next 
messenger  that  comyth  to  London. 

Item,  that  Mastress  Broom  send  me  hedyr  iij.  longe  gownys 
and  ij.  doblettes,  and  a  jaket  of  plonket  chamlett,  and  a  morey 
bonet  out  of  my  cofyr.  Sir  Jamys  hathe  the  key,  as  I  sent  hyr 
werd  be  for  thys. 

Item,  that  syche  othyr  wryghtynges  and  stuff  as  was  in 
my  kasket  be  in  your  kepyng,  and  that  no  body  look  my 
wryghtynges. 

Item,  that  the  horse  that  Purdy  hathe  of  myne  be  put  to 
some  good  gresse  in  haste ;  and  if  it  plese  yow  to  have  know- 
lage  of  our  royal  person,  1  thank  God  I  am  hole  of  my 
syknesse,  and  trust  to  be  clene  hole  of  all  my  hurttys  within  a 
sevennyght  at  the  ferthest,  by  wyche  tym  I  trust  to  have  othyr 
tydynges  ;  and  those  tydynges  onys  had,  I  trust  not  to  be  longe 
owght  of  Norifolk,  with  Godys  grace,  Whom  I  beseche  preserve 
you  and  your  for  my  part. 

Wretyn  the  last  day  of  Apryll.  The  berer  herof  can  tell 
you  tydynges,  syche  as  be  trew  for  very  serteyn. 

Your  humbylest  servaunt, 

J.  OF  Gelston. 


103 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

777 

THE  BATTLE  OF  TEWKESBURY  > 

Ded  in  the  Feld. 

1 47 1  Edward  that  was  called  Prynce. 

MAY  4  Lord  John  of  Somerset. 

Erie  of  Devenshire. 

Lord  Wenlok. 

Sir  William  Vaus. 

Sir  Edmond  Hamden. 

Sir  John  Seymour. 

Sir  William  Bermoth. 

Water  Barrow. 

Mr.  William  Henmar. 

Mr.  Feldyng.^ 

Hervy,  recorder.^ 

Mr.  Herry,  capteyn  of  Brystowe. 
Sir  Roberte  Whetyngham. 
Knoyll. 

Thes  be  men  that  were  heveded} 

The  Duke  of  Somerset. 
The  Lord  of  Sent  Jones. ^ 
Sir  Jerveys  Clyfton. 
Humfrey  Awdeley. 
Lowes  Miles. 
Forey  of  Fraunce. 
Sir  John  Delvys.^ 
Lord  Foskew  on  lyfFe. 

1  [From  MS.  Phillipps  9735,  No.  279.]     This  paper  is  in  a  contemporary  hand- 
writing, and  undoubtedly  refers  to  the  battle  of  Tewkesbury. 

2  Sir  William  Fielding,  according  to  Warkworth's  Chronicle. 

3  These  words, '  Hervy,  recorder,'  are  written  over  '  Herry,  capteyn,'  as  a  correc- 
tion ;  but  the  latter  are  not  erased.     Warkworth  mentions  Sir  Nicholas  Hervy. 

^  Beheaded.  ^  Sir  John  Longstruther,  Prior  of  St.  John's. 

'  Originally  written  '  Mr.  Delvys,'  and  corrected. 

104 


EDWARD  IV 


Sir  William  Carre. 

Sir  Hew  Courteney. 

Sir  Thomas  Tressham. 

Sir  Herry  Tressham. 

Sir  William  Newbery. 

Mr.  Gower.^ 

Mr.  Awdeley.^ 

Robert  Gierke. 

Lechefeld,  mason  of  Westmynster. 

Sir  William  Grymesby  yet  on  lyffe. 

Thes  be  the  Knyghtes  that  the  Kyng  mad  in  the  Feld. 


147 1 

MAY  4 


Lord  Cobham. 
Sir  George  Nevel. 
Sir  Philip  Courtenay. 
Sir  Herry  Bemonde. 
Sir  Moreys  of  Barkley. 
Sir  Richard  Hastynges. 
Sir  Roberte  Haryngton, 
Sir  Thomas  Gray. 
Sir  James  Terell. 
Sir  John  Feres. 
Sir  Herry  Feres. 
Sir  Herry  Purpeynt. 
Sir  John  Parre. 
Sir  John  Downe. 
Sir  Roger  Kyngstone. 
Sir  John  Crokere. 

Sir Skerne, 

Sir  James  Crowmere. 
Sir  William  Sandalle. 
Sir  John  Deverys. 
Sir  Herry  Grey. 
Sir  Edward  Wodehous. 

^  James  Gower,  according  to  Warkworth. 


Sir  Richard  Croft. 

Sir  John  Pylkyngton. 

Sir  John  Byngham. 

Sir  John  Harley. 

Sir  John  Boteler. 

Sir  Christofer  Morysby.  , 

Sir  John  Clay. 

Sir  Robert  Wylleby. 

Sir  Robert  Grene. 

Sir  Roger  Ree. 

Sir  Richard  Radclyffe. 

Sir  John  Saundes. 

Sir  Thomas  Strikelande. 

Sir  George  Browne. 

Sir  William  Motton. 

Sir  Tery  Robsert, 

Sir  Thomas  Cromewell. 

Sir  Robert  Corbet. 

Sir  Nicholas  Langford. 

Sir  John  Seyntlowe. 

Sir  William  Brandon. 

2  Sir  Humphrey  Audeley. 


105 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


778 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  xMARGARET  PASTON  1 

1 47 1     "E    jpOST  worchepfuU  and  my  ryght  specyall  good  modyr, 
JULY  5       V/l       as  humbylly  as  I  can,  I  recomand  me  on  to  yow, 

besechyng  yow  of  your  blyssyng.  Please  it  yow  to 
undyrstand  that  thys  day  I  spake  with  Batcheler  Water,  whiche 
let  me  have  undyrstandyng  of  your  welfare,  wherof  I  thank 
God  with  all  my  hert.  Also  he  leet  me  have  knowlage  that 
the  Lord  Scalys  had  grauntyd  yow  to  be  my  good  lord,  wherof 
I  am  no  thyng  prowd,  for  he  may  do  leest  with  the  gret  mastyr  ; 
but  he  wold  depert  ovyr  the  see,  as  hastyly  as  he  may ;  and 
because  he  wenyth  that  I  wold  go  with  hym,  as  I  had  pro- 
myseyd  evyr,  and  he  had  kept  foorthe  hys  jornay  at  that  tyme, 
thys  is  the  cause  that  he  wyll  be  my  good  lord  and  help  to  get 
my  pardon.  The  Kyng  is  not  best  pleasyd  with  hym  for  that 
he  desyerthe  to  depert,  in  so  myche  that  the  Kyng  hathe  seyd 
of  hym,  that  wen  evyr  he  hathe  most  to  do,  then  the  Lord 
Scalys  wyll  sonest  axe  leve  to  depert,  and  weenyth  that  it  is 
most  be  cause  of  kowardyese.  As  for  pardon,  I  can  never  get, 
withowght  I  schold  paye  to  myche  money  for  it,  and  I  am 
not  so  purveyd.  As  for  Herry  Hallman,  my  brodyr  wyll  axe 
hym  no  sylver  tyll  ye  be  payeyd  ;  therfor  ye  may  send  to  hym 
and  have  it. 

Item,  I  am  sory  that  ye  have  fadyrd  my  hors  that  was  at 
Caster  to  be  my  Brodyr  Edmundys,  for  I  had  leveer  that  they 

1  [From  Fenn,  Iv.  1 16.]  From  the  mention  of  Lord  Scales  in  this  letter  It  might 
be  supposed  that  it  was  written  not  later  than  the  year  1469,  when  Anthony  Wood- 
ville,  the  last  Lord  Scales,  became  Earl  Rivers  by  the  death  of  his  father ;  but  I  believe 
the  date  to  be  147 1,  and  that  the  writer  is  simply  speaking  of  Earl  Rivers  by  his  old 
title.  In  the  first  place  there  is  no  appearance  of  either  of  the  John  Pastons  requiring 
a  royal  pardon  before  the  year  1471  :  secondly,  it  is  not  probable  that  either  of  them 
would  have  spoken  so  slightingly  of  the  value  of  Lord  Scales's  intercession  at  an  earlier 
period ;  and  thirdly,  it  seems  doubtful  whether  Edmund  Paston  could  have  been  old 
enough  to  own  a  war-horse  many  years  before.  Finally,  we  find  by  Letter  780  follow- 
ing that  John  Paston,  the  youngest,  succeeded  in  obtaining  a  pardon  signed  by  the 
King  on  the  17th  July  1471.  If  the  reference  to  the  autograph  plate  in  Fenn  is 
correct,  this  letter  was  in  the  hand  of  his  elder  brother,  Sir  John  Paston,  Knight ;  but 
as  it  is  not  signed,  like  most  of  his  letters, '  John  Paston,  K.,'  we  are  inclined  to  suspect 
that  it  was  really  written  by  the  younger  brother,  like  No.  780. 

106 


EDWARD  IV 

had  hym  style  then  owght   ellys ;  wherfor  thow  they  profyr     1471 
hym  yow  from  hense  foorthe,  let  not  my  brodyr  Edmund  take    July  5 
hym,  but  let  him  sey  whedyr  they  wyll  let  hym  have  hym  or 
not,  that  I  have  promyseyd  my  brodyr  Edmund  a  bettyr  hors 
for  hym,  so  that  he  wyll  not  cleyme  the  same  for  hys.     As  for 
tydyngs  her  be  non  but  that  the  Scottys  and  Walyshe  men  be 
besy ;   what  they   meane   I   can   not   seye.      My   cosyn   John 
Loveday  can  tell  yow,  and  ther  be  eny  odyr  flyeyng  talys,  for 
he  hathe  walkyd  in  London,  an,d  so  do  not  I.     When  I  may 
I  wyll  come  hom  with  Godys  grace,  whom  I  beseche  to  sende 
you  your  hertys  desyeyr.     Wretyn  the  v.  daye  of  Julie. 
Be  yowr  humblest  sone  and  servant. 


J.  P. 


779 

ABSTRACT ' 


NorfF.  and  SufF.  Deeds,  No.  5.  *  Relaxatio  Johannis  Paston  militis,  july  12 
Davidi  Husband  et  Will.  Gyfford  totius  juris  in  maneriis  de  Saxthorp, 
Tichwell,  Haineford,  Essex  in  Hickling,  etc.,  Calcote,  Leystoft,  Habland, 
Broweston,  Gorleston  alias  Spitlings,  quje  quondam  fuerunt  Johannis  Fastolf 
mil.,  et  quae  Will.  Waynflet  episcopus  Winton'  habuit  ex  dono  Rad.  Boteler 
domini  de  Sudley,  et  prasdicti  David  et  Willielmus  ex  dono  episc.  prsedicti, 
necnon  de  et  in  25  markes  redd,  precipiend.  de  priori  de  Hickling.  Julii  12, 
Edw.  IV.  II.     With  a  scedule  annexed  touching  the  same  release.' 

780 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  2 

To  my  most  worchepfull  Modyr,  Margaret  Paston,  be  thys 

delyveryd  in  hast. 

RYGHT  worchepfull  modyr,  I  recomand  me  to  yow,  and  july  17 
as  lowly  as  I  can,  I  beseche  yow  of  yowr  blyssyng. 
Please  yow  to  undyrstand  that  thys  Wednysday  Sir 
Thomas  Wyngffeld  sent  to  me,  and  let  me  wet  that  the  Kyng 

1  [From  MS.  Index  in  Magd.  Coll.,  Oxford.] 

2  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  refers  to  a  pardon  granted  by  the  King 
to  John  Paston  the  younger,  for  having  taken  part  v^^ith  the  Lancastrians  at  the  battle 
of  Barnet.  Though  the  '  bill '  for  this  pardon  was  signed  by  the  King  on  the  17th 
July,  the  pardon  itself  did  not  pass  the  Great  Seal  till  the  7th  February  following, 
under  which  date  it  is  enrolled  on  the  Pardon  Roll  of  1 1  Edw.  iv.,  memb.  9. 

107 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

147 1  had  syngnyd  my  bylle  of  perdon,  whyche  the  seid  Sir  Thomas 
JULY  1 7  delyveryd  me  ;  and  so  by  Fryday,  at  the  forthest,  I  tryst  to 
have  my  perdon  ensealyd  by  the  Chanceler,  and  soone  aftyr, 
so  as  I  can  fornyshe  me,  I  tryst  to  se  yow,  if  so  be  that  eny  of 
the  Kynges  hows  com  in  to  Norwyche.  1  wold  fayne  my 
gray  horse  wer  kept  in  mewe  for  gnattys.  Also,  modyr,  I 
beseche  yow  that  Dollys  and  his  felawe  may  be  sent  to,  that 
I  may  have  my  money  redy  ayenst  that  I  come  home,  whyche 
is  dew  to  be  payid,  for  thys  mater  hathe  cost  me  the  settyng 
over.  Also  that  it  may  please  yow  that  Purdy  at  Heylysdon 
maye  be  sent  to  for  the  horse  that  he  hathe  of  myne,  and  that 
the  horse  may  be  kept  well,  and  have  as  myche  mete  as  he 
wyll  eate  be  twyx  thys  and  that  I  come  home,  and  that  Jakys 
nage  have  mete  i  now  also.  Also,  and  Syr  Thomas  Wyngfeld 
come  to  Norwyche,  that  he  may  have  as  good  chere  as  it 
please  yow  to  make  on  to  that  man  that  I  am  most  behold  to 
for  hys  gret  kyndnesse  and  good  wyll,  for  he  takyth  full  my 
part  ayenst  my  gretest  enmyeys,  Brandons  and  hys  brodyr 
William  ;  for  at  my  fyrst  comyng  to  Sir  Thomas  Wyngfeld, 
bothe  William  Wyngfeld  and  William  Brandon  the  yonger 
wer  with  Sir  Thomas,  and  had  gret  wordy s  to  myn  owne 
mowthe,  and  in  cheiF  W.  Wyngfeld ;  and  wher  so  evyr  he 
may  met  me  on  evyn  grownd  he  wyll  do  myche  ;  but  and  we 
met  evynly,  no  fors,  so  I  have  yowr  blyssyng.  I  prey  yow, 
with  owght  it  be  to  my  Lady  Calthorp,  let  ther  be  but  fewe 
woordys  of  thys  perdon.  No  more,  but  I  prey  God  preserve 
vow  and  yours. 

Wretyn  the  Wednysday  next  before  Mary  Mawdelen, 
By  your  humblest  sone,  J.  P. 


108 


EDWARD  IV 


781 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 

To  Mestresse  Margret  Paston,  or  to  John  Paston,  Esqier, 

hyr  sone^  in  hast. 

RYGHT  well  belovyd  brother,  I  comende  me  to  yow,  147 1 
letyng  yow  wete  that  I  am  in  welliFar,  I  thanke  God,  sept,  i  5 
and  have  ben  evyr  syns  that  1  spake  last  with  yow  ; 
and  mervayle  for  that  ye  sent  never  wryghtynge  to  me  syns 
ye  departyd  ;  I  herde  nevyr  synes  that  tyme  any  worde  out  off 
Norffolk  ;  ye  myght  aft  Bertlemai  Feyr  ^  have  had  messengers 
i  nowe  to  London,  and  iff  ye  had  sent  to  Wykys,  he  scholde 
have  conveyed  it  to  me.  I  herde  yisterdaye,  that  a  Worsted 
man  of  Norffolk,  that  solde  worstedys  ^  at  Wynchester,  seyde 
that  my  Lord  of  Norffolk  and  my  Lady  wer  on  pylgrymage 
at  Our  Lady  ^  on  ffoot,  and  so  they  went  to  Caster  ;  and  that 
at  Norwyche  on  scholde  have  had  large  langage  to  yow,  and 
callyd  yow  traytor,  and  pyked  many  quarellys  to  yow.  Sende 
me  worde  ther  off ;  it  wer  well  doo,  that  ye  wer  a  lytell  sewrer 
off  yowr  pardon  than  ye  be  :  avyse  you,  I  deme  ye  woll  her 
afftr  ellys  repent  yow. 

I  undrestonde  that  Bastarde  Fauconbryge  ^  is  owther  hedyd 
or  lyke  to  be,  and  hys  brother  bothe  ;  some  men  seye  he  wolde 
have  deservyd  it,  and  som  sey  naye. 

I  purpose  to  be  att  London  the  fiyrst  daye  off  the  terme  ; 
send  me  worde  whethyr  ye  schall  be  ther  or  nott. 

Item,  I  wolde  wete  whether  ye  have  spoken  wyth  my  Lady 
off  Norffolk  or  not,  and  off  hyr  disposicion  and  the  howsoldys 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  72.]  Apart  from  the  reference  to  John  Paston's  pardon,  the 
date  of  this  letter  is  fixed  by  what  is  said  of  the  bastard  Falconbridge. 

2  Bartholomew  Fair,  in  Smithfield. 

3  Worsted,  in  Norfolk,  a  town  formerly  famous  for  the  spinning  of  the  fine  thread 
with  which  the  yarn  called  Worsted  is  made. — F. 

*  Of  Walsingham. 

5  Thomas  Nevill,  a  natural  son  of  William,  Lord  Fauconberg.  He  was  beheaded 
in  1471,  and,  as  mentioned  in  Letter  782  following,  his  head  was  placed  on  London 
Bridge. 

109 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1471  to  me  and  to  yow  wardes,  and  whether  it  be  a  possible  to  have 
SEPT.  1 5  Caster  ageyn  and  ther  goodewylles  or  not  ;  and  also  I  praye 
yow  undrestande  what  ffelaschyp  and  guydyng  is  in  Caster, 
and  have  a  spye  resortyng  in  and  owt,  so  maye  ye  know  the 
secretys  among  them.  Ther  is  moche  adoo  in  the  Northe,  as 
men  seyn  ;  I  pray  yow  be  ware  off  yowr  guydyng,  and  in 
chefF  off  yowr  langage,  and  so  that  ffro  hense  fforthe  by  yowr 
langage  noo  man  perceyve  that  ye  ffavor  any  person  contrary 
to  the  Kynges  plesur.  I  undrestonde  that  the  Lord  Ryvers 
hathe  lycence  off  the  Kynge  to  goo  to  Portyngale  now  within 
thys  vij.  nyght.  I  pray  yow  recomande  mo  to  my  modre,  and 
beseche  hyr  off  hyr  blyssyng  on  my  be  halve.^ 

Item,  I  praye  yow  sende  me  worde  iff  any  off  owr  ffrendys 
or  wellwyllers  be  dede,  ffor  I  feer  that  ther  is  grete  dethe  in 
Norwyche,  and  in  other  Borowgh  townese  in  Norffolk,  ffor  I 
ensur  you  it  is  the  most  unyversall  dethe  that  evyr  I  wyst  in 
Ingelonde  ;  ffor  by  my  trowthe,  I  kan  not  her  by  pylgrymes 
that  passe  the  contre,  nor  noon  other  man  that  rydethe  or 
gothe  any  contre,  that  any  Borow  town  in  Ingelonde  is  ffree 
ffrom  that  sykenesse ;  God  sease  it  whan  it  pleasyt  Hym. 
Wherffor,  ffor  Goddysake,  let  my  moodre  take  heede  to  my 
yonge  brytheren  that  they  be  not  in  noon  place  wher  that 
sykenesse  is  regnyng,  nor  that  they  dysport  not  with  noon 
other  yonge  peple  whyche  resortythe  wher  any  sykenesse  is, 
and  iff  ther  be  any  off  that  sykenesse  ded  or  enffect  in 
Norwyche,  ffor  Goddes  sake,  lete  hyr  sende  them  to  som 
ffrende  off  hyrse  in  to  the  contre,  and  do  ye  the  same  by  myn 
advyce  ;  late  my  moodre  rather  remeve  hyr  howsesolde  in  to 
the  contre. 

Even  now  Thyrston  browt  me  word  ffro  London  that  it 
was  Doctor  Aleyn  that  cawsyd  yowr  troble  that  ye  had  at 
Norwych  ;  and  that  John  Pampyng  roode  ffor  a  dyscharge 
ffor  yow,  and  that  he  hathe  sped  well,  but  howghe,  that  wot  I 
nott ;  iff  ye  be  cleer  owt  off  Doctor  Aleyn  danger,  kepe  yow 
ther,  and  her  afftr  ye  maye  schoffe  as  well  at  hys  carte.  I 
praye  yow  sende  me  worde  off  all  the  fforme  off  hys  delyng 
with  yow. 

1  Here  follow,  says  Fenn,  some  directions  about  payments  of  money. 
I  10 


EDWARD  IV 

I  had  almost  spoke  with  Mestresse  Ann  Hault,  but  I  dyd     1471 
not  ;  nevyrthelesse  thys  next  terme  I  hope  to  take  on  weye  ^ept.  i  5 
with  hyr  or  other  ;  sche  is  agreyd  to  speke  with  me,  and  sche 
hopythe  to  doo  me  ease  as  sche  saythe. 

I  praye  yow  sende  me  worde  hoghe  ye  doo  with  my  Lady 
Elysabeth  Boghscher  ;  ye  have  a  lytell  chaffyd  it,  but  I  can 
not  tell  howe  ;  sende  me  worde  whether  ye  be  in  better  hope 
or  werse.  I  her  seye  that  the  Erie  off  Oxenffordys  bretheryn 
be  goon  owt  off  Sceyntewarye.  Sir  Thomas  Fulfforthe^  is 
goon  owt  off  Sceyntewarye,  and  a  gret  ffelaschyp  ffettchyd 
hym,  a  iij/''-,  and  they  sey  that  with  in  v.  myle  off  London 
he  was  CC.  men  ;  and  no  man  watethe  wher  he  is  become 
not  yit. 

The  Lordes  Hastyngs  and  Howerd  be  in  Caleys,  and  have 
it  pesebely  ;  and  Sir  Walter  Wrettesle  and  Sir  Jeffrey  Gate 
be  comyn  thense,  and  woll  be  at  London  thys  daye  as  it  is 
seyde. 

Wretyn  at  Waltham  besyd  Winchester  the  daye  nex  Holy 
Roode  Daye.^ 

J.  P.,  K. 

782 
SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  2 

To  hys  well  belovyd  John  Paston,  Esquier,  at  Norwyche, 
or  to  Mestresse  Margret,  his  Modre. 

ICOMANDE  me  to  yow,  letyng  yow  weet  that,  &c.*  sept.  28 

I  wolde  ffayne  have  the  mesur  wher  my  ffadre  lythe 
at  Bromholm  ;  bothe  the  thyknesse  and  compase  off  the 
peler  at  hys  hed,  and  ffrom  that  the  space  to  the  alter,  and  the 

1  Sir  Thomas  Fulford  was  son  of  Sir  Baldwin  Fulford,  beheaded  at  Bristol  in 
146 1  ;  he  likewise  ended  his  life  on  the  scaffold. 

*  Holyrood  Day,  14th  of  September. 

3  [From  Fenn,  ii.  80.]  The  evidences  of  date  in  this  letter  are  the  same  as  in 
the  last. 

*  Here  follows  an  account  that  the  Duchess  of  Suffolk  and  Duke  of  Norfolk  intend 
again  commencing  appeals  against  Sir  John  Paston  and  his  brother,  etc.,  concerning 
Caister,  etc. — F. 

Ill 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1 47 1  thyknesse  off  that  alter,  and  imagery  off  tymbre  werk ;  and 
SEPT.  28  what  hyght  the  arche  is  to  the  grounde  off  the  ilde,  and  how 
hye  the  grounde  off  the  qwyr  is  hyer  than  the  grownde  off 
the  ilde. 

Item,  I  praye  yowe  late  the  mesur  by  pekthred  be  taken 
or  elt  mesured  by  yerde,  how  moche  is  ffrom  the  northe  gate, 
ther  the  brygge  was,  at  Gressham  to  the  sowthewall,  and  in 
lyke  fforme  ffrom  the  este  syde  to  the  west,  also  the  hyght  off 
the  estewall,  and  the  hyght  of  the  sowthest  towr  ffrom  the 
grownde,  iff  ye  maye  easely.  Also  what  bredde  every  towr  is 
within  the  wall,  and  whych  towr  is  moor  then  other  within. 

Alsso  how  manye  ffote,  or  what  brede  eche  towr  takythe 
within  iche  corner  off  the  quadrate  ^  ovyrthwert  the  dorys,  and 
how  many  taylors  yards  is  from  the  moote  syde,  wher  the 
brygg  was,  to  the  hyghe  weye,  or  to  the  heddge  all  a  longe 
the  entre,  and  what  brede  the  entre  is  be  twyen  the  dykys.  I 
praye  yow,  iff  ye  have  a  leyser  in  any  wyse,  se  thys  doone 
yowrselffe  iff  ye  maye  ;  or  ellys  iff  Pampyng  do  it,  or  who 
that  ye  thynke  can  doo  it,  I  wolle  spende  xx^.  or  as  ye  seme  to 
have  the  sertayn  off  every  thyng  her  in.  And  as  for  my 
ffaders  tombe,  I  charge  yow  se  it  yowr  selffe,  and  when  I 
speke  with  yow  I  woll  tell  yow  the  cawses  why  that  I  desyr 
thys  to  be  doon. 

As  ffor  tydyngs,  the  Kyng,  and  the  Qwyen,  and  moche 
other  pepell,  ar  ryden  and  goon  to  Canterbery,  nevyr  so 
moche  peple  seyn  in  Pylgrymage  hertofor  at  ones,  as  men 
seye. 

Alsso  it  is  seyde  that  the  Erie  of  Penbroke  ^  is  taken  on  to 
Brettayn  ;  and  men  saye  that  the  Kynge  schall  have  delyvere 

1  A  drawing  is  here  given  in  the  original  letter,  apparently  designed  as  a  plan  of 
the  quadrangle  of  Gresham,  of  which  the  subjoined  is  a  facsimile. 


2  Jasper  Tudor. 
112 


EDWARD  IV 

ofFhym  hastely,  and  som  seye  that  the  Kynge  off  France  woU     1471 
se  hym  saffe,  and  schall  sett  hym  at  lyberte  ageyn.  sept.  28 

Item,  Thomas  Fauconbrydge  hys  hed  was  yesterdaye  sett 
uppon  London  Brydge,  lokyng  into  Kent  warde ;  and  men 
seye  that  hys  brother  was  sor  hurte,  and  scope  to  seyntwarye 
[sanctuary]  to  Beverle. 

Sir  Thomas  Fulfforthe  escaped  owt  of  Westminster  with 
an  C.  sperys,  as  men  seye,  and  is  in  to  Devenshyr  ;  and  ther 
he  hathe  strekyn  off  Sir  John  Crokkers  hed,  and  kylt  an  other 
knyght  off  the  Corteneys,  as  men  seye.  I  wolde  ye  hadd 
yowr  verry  pardon  at  onys ;  wherfor  I  praye  yow  ffayle  not 
to  be  at  London  within  iiij.  daye  afftr  Seynt  Fey  the  ;  ^  ye 
schall  do  goode  in  many  thynges,  and  I  praye  yow  sende 
me  worde  heroff  by  the  next  massenger ;  and  if  it  come  to 
Mestresse  Elysabeth  Hyggens,  at  the  Blak  Swan,  sche  schall 
conveye  it  to  me,  ffor  I  woll  not  ffayle  to  be  ther  at  London 
ageyn  within  thys  vj.  dayes. 

Mestresse  Elysabeth  hathe  a  son,  and  was  delyveryd  within 
ij.  dayes  afftr  Seynt  Bertelmew  ;^  and  hyr  dowtr  A.  H.  was 
the  next  daye  afftr  delyveryd  off  an  other  sone,  as  sche  seythe, 
xj.  weks  er  hyr  tyme ;  it  was  crystened  John,  and  is  ded. 
God  save  all  !     No  mor  tyll  I  speke  with  yow. 

Wretyn  at  London  on  Mychellmesse  Evyn. 

J.  P.,  K. 

Item,  I  praye  yow  late  some  wytty  felaw,  or  ellys  yowr- 
selff,  goo  to  the  townes  ther  as  thes  ij.  women  dwelle,  and 
inquire  whether  they  be  maryed  syns  and  ageyn  or  not,  ffor  I 
holde  the  hoorys  weddyd  ;  and  iff  they  be,  than  the  appelys 
wer  abbatyd  ther  by.  I  remembr  not  ther  names  ;  ye  knowe 
them  better  then  I.  Alsso  in  the  Schreffvys  bookys  ther  maye 
ye  ffynde  off  them. 

^  5th  of  October.  2  ^^th  of  August. 


VOL.  V. H 


113 


OCT.   21 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

783 

R.  L.  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  hys  worshipful  master^  John  Paston,  Esquier. 

'471  Tp\  YGHT  wurchupfuU  ser,  I  comaund  me  to  your  good 
1^  maysterchepe,  &c.  Plese  it  you  to  understond  that 
Redford  desyryd  me  on  your  byhalfe  that  I  chuld  goo 
and  comon  with  the  woman  that  was  the  fuUars  wyfe  of  South 
Walsham,  whech  woman  is  now  maryed  to  on  Thom  Styward, 
dwellyng  in  the  parysch  of  Seynt  Gyll  in  Norwych,  whech 
woman  seyd  to  me  that  che  sewyd  never  the  pele,  but  that  she 
was  by  sotyle  craft  brought  to  the  New  In  at  Norwych,  and 
ther  was  Maystir  Southwell,  and  he  entretyd  hyr  to  be  my 
Lords  wewe  \widow'\^  by  the  space  of  an  hole  yer  next  folwyn, 
and  therto  he  mad  hyr  to  be  bowne  in  an  obligacyon.  And 
whan  that  yer  was  past  he  desyred  hyr  to  be  my  Lords  wedow 
another  yer  ;  and  than  she  seyd  that  she  had  lever  lose  that 
that  she  had  do,  than  to  lose  that  and  meer  ;  and  therfor  she 
seyd  pleynly  that  she  wold  no  mor  of  that  mater.  And  so 
she  toke  hyr  an  husbond,  whech  is  the  seyd  Thom  Styward  ; 
and  she  seyth  that  it  was  full  sor  ageyn  hyr  wylle  that  ever  the 
mater  went  so  forforth,  for  she  had  never  non  avayle  therof, 
butt  it  was  sewyd  to  hyr  gret  labor  and  losse,  for  she  had 
never  of  my  Lords  councell,  but  berely  hyr  costs  to  London. 
No  mor,  but  God  have  you  in  Hys  kepyng. 

Wretyn  at  Norwych,  the  Monday  next  after  the  Fest  of 
Seynt  Luke. 

By  your  servant,  R.  L. 

1  [From  Fenn,  iv.  440.]  In  the  postscript  to  the  preceding  letter,  Sir  John  Paston 
intimates  his  belief  that  the  two  widows  who  had  appealed  his  brother  of  the 
murder  of  their  husbands  had  married  again,  and  that  thereby  the  appeals  were 
abated.  It  appears  by  the  present  letter  that  this  intelligence  was  correct  as  regards 
one  of  them. 

2  The  widow  of  a  tenant  in  chivalry  was  called  the  Lord's  widow. 

114 


EDWARD  IV 

784 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTONi 

RYGHT  worchepfuU  m[other,  as  lowly  as]  I  can  I  re-     1471 
comand   me  to   yow,   besechyng   yow  of  your  dayly   oct.  28 
blyssyng,   praying    yow    to    take   thys    key,   and    Sir 
Jam[ys]     ....     [m]y  broder  E.,  or  J.  Pampyng,  and 

to  ondo  the  kofyr  that  standith  at  my  bedys  feet,  and  ther  in 
a  ly[tyl  sqw]are  box  ye  shall  fy[nd  two  dejdys,  wher  of  the 
seallys  be  wownd  in  whyght  paper  ;  my  brodyr  E.  sye  \_sa'w'] 
when  I  wond  them  up.     The  tone  [begyjnyth  '  Sciant,  &c., 
quod  ego  Matilda  Bigota '  ;  and  the  todyr  begynyth  '  Sciant, 
&c.,  quod  ego  Rogerus     .     .     .     .'     [I  pray  y]ow  lett  [them 

be]  sealyd  and  sent  me  by  Radley  with  the  deedes  there  in. 
Sir  Jamys  knowyth  the     .......     But  [if  so]  be 

that  ye  fynd  not  thys  box  with  thes  two  deedes  in  that  cofyr, 

then  I  prey  yow  take  the  k[ey] teye 

of  the  same  cofyr,  and  opyn  the  cofyr  that  standyth  in  the 

utter  chambyr,  and  ther  ye   shall   fynd 

.  .  [d]edes.  My  brodyr,  Sir  John,  recomandyth  hym  to 
yow,  and  besechyth  yow  of  your  blyssyng  ;  and  as  for  hys 
mater  [there  is  yet  no  conclu]syon  of  no  poynt,  but  I  tryst 
ther  shall  be  with  in  thes  ij.  dayeys.     Jenney,  W.  trowbly[th] 

['^'^y]  brodyrs  seryauntes  with  old  accyons 

and  all  syche  thynges  as  he  can  renew  to  stoppe  the  oblyga- 
cio[ns  w]hyche  he  is  bownd  in  on  to  my  broder  ;  but  all  shall 
be  easeyd,  I  tryst.  As  for  Mrs.  A.  Hawlt,  the  mater  is  mevyd 
[by  div]ers  of  the  Qwenys  consayll,  and  of  ferre  by  R.  Hault, 
but  he  wold  it  shold  be  fyrst  of  our  mocyon,  and  we  wold  [it] 
shold  com  of  theym  fyrst  ;  our  mater  shold  be  the  bettyr. 

2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  There  was  a  general  pardon  in  the  latter  part  of  the 
year  1471,  and  both  John  Paston  and  his  brother  took  advantage  of  it,  as  appears  by 
the  ?ardon  Roll,  ii  Edw.  iv.,  membranes  9  and  25.  The  date  of  this  letter  is  also 
shown  by  the  answer  to  it,  written  by  Margaret  Paston  on  the  5th  November.  Many 
of  the  words  in  this  letter  are  lost  by  the  mutilation  of  the  original  MS.,  which  is  full 
of  holes,  from  having  been  exposed  at  one  time  to  damp.  The  address  is  almost 
completely  lost,  but  a  portion  of  the  word  '  [Ma]rgaret '  is  visible,  and  a  small  frag- 
ment of  an  endorsement  below  in  which  the  word  '  Paston  '  is  legible. 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

147 1  Tydynges,  ther  is   a  generall   pardon  mevyd  whyche  my 

OCT.  28  brodyr  J.  try  sty  th  to  have  the  preve[lege]  of  as  soone  as  it  is 
grantyd,  whyche  shall  bee  a  bowght  All  Halow  tyed  at  the 
ferthest.  I  have  spok  with  my  L[ord  Rivejrs  and  with  all  myn 
old  aqweyntance,  and  have  good  cheer  of  theym,  hold  as  it 
maye.  When  we  be  conclud[yd  in]  eny  poynte  of  our  maters, 
ye  shall  have  knowlage  ther  howhe  to  put  yow  in  [comfort]  er 
we  have  eny  .  .  .  but  in  veyn  when  we  have  comfort  ye 
shall  have  parte.  Newe  tydynges,  datys  s  .  .  .  [s]ugyr 
of  Mr.  Kwte  (J)  y.d.  di.lb.,  and  bettyr  I  tryst.  No  more,  but 
I  beseche  God  preserve  yow  and  yours. 

Wretyn  on  [Seint]  Symondes  Day  and  Jwde. 
Your  humblest  sone  and  servaunt, 

J.   Paston. 

785 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON'S  DEEDS  1 

In  the  square  trussyng  coffre. 

A  boxe  with  evydence  off  my  place  in  Fletstrett. 

A  lytell  box  with  obligacions  off  the  Archbisshop  off  York  and  W.  Jennyes 

oblygacion. 
A  box  with  evydence  of  Tytlyshall. 

A  box  with  the  letter  of  attorney  off  Fastolffes  londes  by  Sir  John  Paston. 
j.  A    box    de    actis    inter    episcopum    Wynt'    et    J.    P.    militem.       Item 

endentur'  de  argento  mutuato  termino  Trinitatis  anno  x°'  et  testamentum 

W.  Paston,  Justic'. 
Item,  ij.  pixides  de  novis  cartis  de  terris  Fastolffes. 
Item,  a  litell  box  with  the  obligacion  off  T.  Fastolff  and  one  off  James 

Gresham. 
Item,  a  box  with  the  dede  off  gyfft  off  J.  P.,  and  the  byll  assygnyd  for  the 

dyamant. 
Item,  the  bagge  de  placitis  in  usu. 
Item,  the  bagge  with  ger  taken  owt  off  my  caskett. 
Item,  a  bagge  with  the  bondell  where  on  was  wreten  '  London.' 
Item,  a  bagge  with  evydence  off  Est  Bekham. 
Item,  a  bondell  de  actis  parlimenti  et  de  excambia  in  Paston. 


1  [From  Paston  mss,,  B.M.]  The  following  inventory  is  in  the  handwriting  of 
Sir  John  Paston.  The  date  at  which  it  was  drawn  up  must,  from  internal  evidence, 
be  later  than  the  tenth  year  of  Edward  iv.  j  so  perhaps  it  may  be  a  list  of  the  contents 
of  the  coffer  mentioned  by  John  Paston  in  Letter  784. 

116 


EDWARD  IV 

Item,  a  bondell  de  actis  Cantuariensis. 

Item,  a  bondell  de  fyrma  Caster  Berdolffis. 

The  endenture  off  Snaylwell  by  Wylleys. 

A  bondell  of  Gresham  Moleyns. 

A  bondell  off  processe  off  th'eschekyr  letter  and  byllys  sirca  (sic)  festum 

Johannis  anno  ix°- 
Item,  th'endenture  off  W.  Jeney.     Item,  a  bondell  off  letteris  and  byllis 

anno  x"- 
A  bondell  with  inquisicions  not  returnyd  in  to  the  Chanceri. 
Copia  voluntatis  Fastolff  ultima  et  probata. 
Enventorium    (sic)    apud  Caster   per  Episcopum  Norwic'  et  dominum  de 

Scales  et  alia  ad  rediseisinam  (?) 
Apunctuamentum  Regis  et  litera  amici.  Endentura  de  Fennes  per  patrem 

Hugonis  Fenne. 
The  verray  endenture  off  my  mariage. 
Item,  a  bondell  off  letteris  from  my  brother  John. 
Item,  iij.  billis,  the  endenter  of  W.  Jenney  for  Bacton,  a  byll  of  Wylleys 

and  one  off  J.  Owdin  (?) 
Item,  a  bondell  with  the  names  off  them  that  had  stoff  from  Heylesdon. 
Item,  a  byll  off  Sweynesthorp.     Item,  a  byll  off  Brok  off  Dedham  off  the 

purchace  theroff,  a  quitance  pro  Scaccario. 
A  bonde  towchyng  the  probatt  off  Fastolffes  will,  with  mi  olde  testament. 
A  copie  off  a  generalle  releffe  de  terris  Fastolffes. 


786 

ABSTRACT! 

William  Pekoc  to   Sir  John  Paston 

Has  received  Wheteley's  letter,  but  though  he  has  spoken  to  Sir  John's  14*71^?) 
tenants  at  Paston,  Bakton,  etc.,  has  obtained  no  money  to  send  him.  They  ^ov.  4 
are  better  pleased  to  pay  Sir  John  than  Master  '  Will.  P.,'  so  they  be  saved 
harmless.  Has  put  them  in  good  comfort,  and  Sir  John  must  take  care  that 
they  be  not  sued  this  term.  The  fishing  was  never  worse.  No  herring  to  be  got 
under  13^.  ^d.  a  barrel,  and  8s,  ^d.  a  cade.  The  swans  were  sent  the  week 
after  your  departure.  John  O  shorn  and  Munde  are  merry.  None  dead  at 
Caster  and  Mawteby  since  Michaelmas,  but  much  mortality  still  at  Fylby, 
Ormysby,  and  Scrowby. 

Mawteby,  4  Nov. 

[This  letter  most  probably  belongs  to  the  year  1471,  which  it  will  be  seen  by  the 
letter  immediately  following  was  a  year  of  great  mortality.] 


1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

117 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

787 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

1 47 1  T  GRETE  you  wele,  and  send  you  Goddes  blyssyng  and 
NOV.  5  I  myn,  letyng  you  wete  that  myn  Cosyn  Clere  hathe  sent 
to  me  for  the  C.  marc  that  I  borwed  of  her  for  your 
brother.  It  fortuned  so  that  a  frend  of  her  of  late  hath  loste 
better  than  CCC.  marc,  and  he  sent  to  her  for  money,  and  she 
had  non  that  she  myght  comyn  by,  and  ther  for  she  sent  to 
me  for  the  seyd  C.  marc  ;  and  I  know  not  how  to  do  therfor, 
for  by  my  trowth  I  have  it  not,  nor  I  can  not  make  shyft  ther- 
for, and  I  shuld  go  to  preson  ;  therfor  comune  with  your 
brother  her  of,  and  send  me  word  how  that  he  wull  make 
shyft  ther  for  in  hast.  I  must  elles  nedes  sell  all  my  woods, 
and  that  shall  dysse  avayll  him  better  than  a  CC.  marc,  and  I 
dey ;  and  if  I  shuld  selle  them  now,  ther  wull  noman  gewe  so 
myche  for  them  be  ner  an  C.  marc  as  they  be  worth,  be  cause 
ther  be  so  many  wood  sales  in  Norfolke  at  thys  tyme,  Ther- 
for lete  hym  make  purvyaunce  therfor  in  hast,  as  he  wull  have 
my  good  wyll,  and  wull  that  I  save  hym  the  seyd  woods  to  the 
better  a  wayll,  and  send  me  word  here  of  in  hast  if  ye  wull 
my  welfare,  for  I  shall  never  be  in  quiete  tille  I  k[n]owe  an 
ende  in  thys,  for  she  hath  therfor  an  obligacion  of  an  Cii. 
And  it  is  not  kepte  cloos,  ther  be  many  persones  now  k[n]owyn 
it,  which  me  semyth  a  greet  rebuke  to  me  that  I  departyd  so 
largely  with  yowr  brother  that  I  reservyd  not  to  pay  that  I 
was  endaungered  for  hym,  and  so  have  dy verse  seyd  to  me 
which  of  late  have  k[n]owyn  it;  and  whan  I  remembre  it,  it 
is  to  myn  hart  a  very  spere,  consideryng  that  he  never  gave 
comforte  therein,  ner  of  all  the  money  that  hath  be  reseyvyd 
wull  never  make  shyft  therfor.  And  he  had  yet  be  for  thys 
tyme  have  sent  me  1.  marc  thereof,  yet  I  wuld  have  thought 
that  he  had  had  summe  consideracion  of  myn  daungers  that  I 

1  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  is  not  addressed,  and  the  MS.  is  in 
fact  only  a  corrected  draft,  of  which  a  fair  copy  has  since  been  found.  The  fair  copy 
is  not  addressed  either.  The  letter  was  evidently  written  to  John  Paston  in  answer 
to  No.  784.  The  date  is  ascertained  by  the  fact  that  John  Berney  of  Witchinghain 
died  in  the  year  147 1. 

ii8 


EDWARD  IV 

have  put  me  in  for  hym.  Remembre  hym  how  that  I  have  1471 
excusyd  hym  of  xx/z.  that  the  Prior  of  Bromholm  had,  which  nov.  5 
shuld  elles  have  be  in  that  daunger  that  it  shuld  have  be  to  us 
a  grete  rebwke,  with  bought  that  he  myght  a  ben  holpyn  wyth 
shuch  money  as  he  shuld  have  had  of  your  fadyrs  bequest ; 
and  I  payd  to  the  shereffe  for  hym  also  money.  All  thes 
shuld  have  holpe  me  wele  therto,  be  syde  other  thynges  that  I 
have  bor  thys  yeres  that  I  speke  not  of;  there  fore  lete  hym 
helpe  me  now,  or  elles  it  shall  dysawayll  hym  better  than  the 
trebyll  the  money,  wheder  that  I  leve  or  dey,  with  ought  he 
hath  better  consideracion  to  the  daungers  that  I  stond  in.  Also 
I  wulde  ye  shuld  meve  hym  to  take  John  Pampyng  to  hym, 
or  elles  to  gete  hym  a  servyce  in  the  Chauncery,  or  in  sume 
other  place  where  as  he  myth  be  preferryd,  for  it  ys  pety  that 
he  lesyth  hys  tyme  so  her,  and  it  is  non  a  wayll  to  non  of  ws, 
and  for  diverse  othyr  thyngs  whesch  ye  shall  knowe  her  after,  I 
wolde  that  I  war  hens  in  haste,  for  all  maner  of  happys,  constrw 
ye,  &c.  I  can  yw  thanke  for  ywyr  lettyr  that  ye  sente  me,  and 
that  ye  have  inquiryd  of  shwch  thynges  as  ye  thynk  that  shwld 
plese  me,  I  send  yow  the  boxe  and  the  dedes  that  ye  sente  to 
me  for,  but  as  for  the  key  of  the  cofyr  in  the  wtter  chambyr  I 
can  not  fynd  yt ;  yf  the  boxe  had  be  ther  in,  ye  cwdnat  not 
have  hadd  yth  but  yf  [unless]  I  had  broke  wp  the  cofyr ;  ther 
for  remembre  yw  wer  ye  have  do  the  key ;  I  kep  styll  the 
key  that  ye  sente  me  tyll  that  ye  cwm  home. 

As  for  the  tydynges  here, .  ywr  cosyn  Barney  of  Wych- 
shynggham  ys  passyd  to  Gode,  hwm  Gode  asoyle.  Veylys 
wife,  and  Lodonys  wife,  and  Pycard  the  bacar  of  Twmlond, 
ben  gone  also  ;  all  thys  hwlsold  and  thys  parych  ys  as  ye 
leftyd,  blyssyd  be  Gode;  we  lewyn  in  fer,  but  we  wut  not 
qweder  to  fle,  for  to  be  better  than  we  ben  here.  I  send  yw 
demi  a  riale  for  to  by  wyth  swger  ^  and  dates  for  me,  I  pray 
yw  do  as  wel  as  ye  can,  and  sende  it  me  as  hastely  as  ye 
may,  and  sende  me  word  qwat  price  a  //.  of  peppyr,  clowys, 
masis,    gingyr,     and     sinamun,     almannys,    ryse,    ganyngal, 

^  In  Fenn's  edition  this  is  printed  '  swgar,  feg,  and  dats/  The  word  '  feg  '  is  not 
in  the  MS.  It  seems  to  be  a  misreading  of  '  swg' '  (sugar),  which  the  transcriber 
forgot  to  cancel. 

119 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1 47 1  safrwn,  reysonys  of  Corons,  grenys/  of  ych  of  these  sende 
NOV.  5  me  the  pryce  of  ych  of  these/  and  yf  that  it  be  bettir  shepe 
at  London  than  it  is  here,  I  shal  sende  yw  mony  to  bye  wyth 
soch  stwfe  as  I  wull  have.  Remember  that  I  spake  to  yw  to 
spek  to  ywyr  brother  for  the  seyd  C.  marc  wan  ye  departed 
hens.  I  trow  ye  had  forgettyt,  that  ye  sent  me  non  answer  ther 
of  in  ony  wys.  Lete  me  have  an  answer  ther  of  in  hast,  and 
sende  me  woord  how  ywyr  brother  and  ye  spede  in  ywyr 
maters  ;  and  Goddes  blissyng  and  myn  mut  ye  have  both,  and 
send  yw  good  sped  in  all  ywyr  maters. 

Wretyn  in  hast  on  Sent  Levnards  Eve.^ 

By  ywyr  Moder. 

788 
BILL  OF  COSTS* 

Termino  Sancti  Michael'ts  Anno  xj"  E.  iiij'^  pro  Ricardo  Calle  deff'  versus 
Willelmum  Huggan  q.  in  placito  trans^ . 

NOV.       In  primis,  for  a  copy  of  the  bill,         ......  iiij^. 

Item,  for  makyng  of  the  awnswer  to  Mr.  Pygot,  Mr.  Fayrefax, 

and  to  Mr.  Hosy,        ........      xj. 

Item,  wyne  and  perys  at  tavern  ij.  tymes,   .....  xiiij^. 

Item,  for  a  copy  of  record  in  the  Kynges  Bench,  .  .  .     iijj.    iiij^. 

Item,  for   pledyng  of  the  record  in  the  Kynges  Bench  a   yenst 

Wyll.  Huggan,  ........       xj. 

Item,  gyven  to  Hosey,  the  xxvij.  day  of  the  same  moneth,  for  to 

enparle^  to  the  bill,      ........     iijj-.     iiij^. 

Item,  the  xxx.  day  of  October,  for  the  copy  of  the  tytelyng  of 

Huggans  plee,     .........  iiij'^« 

Item,  for  wyne  at  [the]  Cardenall  Hatte  ^  the  same  day,      .  .  y'^d. 

Item,  the  iiij.  day  of  November,  gyven  to  Mr.  Fayrfax  and  Mr. 

Hosey  for  puttyng  yn  of  the  replicacyon,  ....      vjj.    vitj^. 

Item,   the   x.   day   of   November,   gyven   to   Mr.    Fayrfax,   Mr. 

Pygotte,  and  Mr.  Hosey,  for    the    seyng    of   the    paper,  and 

cornenyng  of  the  issewe  a  yenst  Wyll.  Huggan,        .  .  .      xj. 


^  F.  adds  '  and  comfyts/  but  the  words  are  not  in  the  MS. 

2  F.  reads  'the  price  of  a  //.,'  but  this  is  not  in  the  ms. 

3  The  following  sentence  is  added  in  the  fair  copy:  'I  warn  yw  kepe  this  letter 
clos  and  lese  yt  not ;  rather  brenyt.'  *  [From  Fasten  mss.,  B.M.] 

^  To  imparl,  a  technical  expression,  meaning  to  obtain  time  to  plead. 

''  A  tavern  in  Southwark.     The  name  is  still  preserved  in  Cardinal  Hat  Alley. 

120 


EDWARD  IV 

Item,  for  the  wyne  at  the  Cardenall  Hatte,  ....  ^  viiji/.      1 4*7 1 

Item,  for  the  entre  of  the  aunswere  a  yenst  Huggan  by  Ric-  Calle,  j,ov. 

payd  to  Sandys,  ........      vj. 

Item,  to  Nedersole  for  makyng  of  the  paper,       ....      ijj.      yjd. 

Item,  for  the  copy  of  the  same,  ......      ijj.      vj^. 

Summa  totalis.  Ivy.  \u]d. 


789 

EDMUND  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON2 
Tho  my  rytgh  wurshepfull  brother  John  Paston^  in  hast. 

RYGH  wurshipful  brother,  I  recumawnd  me  to  zow,  '^o^'-  ^^ 
prayeng  zow  hartely  that  ze  wyl  remembyr  soche 
maters  as  I  wryth  to  zow.  I  send  zow  now  be  the 
brynggar  her  of  mony,  wycche  mony  I  pray  zow  that  [ye  ^] 
be  stowe  yt  as  I  wryth  to  zow.  I  wend  a  don  yt  my  sylf  but 
consyderyng  costis  and  other  dyvers  thyngis  I  may  not  bryng 
yt  abowthe,  Wher  for  I  pray  zow  hartely  to  take  the  labour 
up  on  zow,  and  I  trust  to  deservyt.  I  pray  zow  be  stow  thys 
mony  thus  :  to  Christofyr  Hanyngton  vj.  :  to  the  prynspall 
of  Stapylin  ^  ws.  in  parte  of  payment.  Also  I  pray  zow  to  bye 
me  iij.  zerddis  of  porpyl  schamlet,  price  the  zerd  iiijj,,  a  bonet 
of  depe  murry,  pryce  ijj.  iiij-^.,  an  hose  clothe  of  zelow  carsey 
of  an  ellyn,  1  trow  yt  wyl  cost  ijj.  ;  a  gyrdyl  of  plunkket 
ryban,  price  N]d. ;  iiij.  lacis  of  sylke  ij.  of  one  color  and  ij.  of 
ane  other,  price  viij<^. ;  iij.  doseyn  poynttis  wythe  red  and 
zelow,   price   V]d.  ;    iij.   peyer   of  pateyns.     I    pray   zow   late 

^  l^.B. — Under  viij^.  is  written  '46/.  4^.'  in  a  different  hand. 

2  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  130,  and  Add.  MS.  27,  445,  f.  52.]  The  ms.  of  this  letter 
is  in  two  fragments,  from  which  it  is  now  printed  entire.  The  year  in  which  it  was 
written  is  shown  by  Margaret  Paston's  letter  to  the  writer's  brother  John  Paston,  on 
the  29th  November  1471  (No.  791),  in  which  she  apologises  for  not  sending  him 
money  for  a  runlet  of  wine  she  had  desired  him  to  purchase  for  her,  on  account  of  the 
number  of  thieves  stirring.  It  will  be  seen  that  she  made  the  request  by  means  of  her 
son  Edmund  in  this  letter. 

3  Omitted  in  ms.  ». 
*  Staple  Inn. 

121 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1 47 1  Wylliam  Mylsant  purvey  for  them,  I  was  wonte  to  pay  but 
NOV.  1 8  ij^  ob.  for  a  payer,  but  I  pray  zow  late  them  not  be  lefte 
behyng  thow  I  pay  mor  ;  they  must  be  lowe  pateyns  ;  late 
them  be  long  inow  and  brode  up  on  the  hele.  Among  all 
other  I  pray  zow  recumawnd  me  to  Mastres  Elyzabet 
Hygons.  I  may  sey  poverte  partes  feleschepe.  Yf  that  I 
had  ben  so  well  purveyde  as  I  wend  I  trowst  to  have  ben 
with  zow  her  thys;  also  I  pray  zow  recumawnd  me  to  my 
brother  Sir  John,  I  fer  lasse  he  wyl  take  a  dysplesur  with 
me  that  I  send  hym  no  mony.  I  pray  zow  excuse  me  as  ze 
can.  I  trust  to  send  hym  sum  a  bowth  Candylmesse.  I  had 
a  promyse  of  Masteres  Elyzabeth  of  a  typet  of  welvet ;  but 
and  I  myth  have  a  hatlase  I  woold  thynk  me  well.  I  pray 
zow  sey  thus  myche  on  zour  owyn  hed,  and  yf  ze  can  not 
sped  of  the  hatlase  I  pray  zow  bye  me  one  of  xijJ,  or  xvj^. 
Also  Sir  I  send  Parkar  hys  mony  be  the  brynggar  har  of  and 
I  have  desyered  hym  to  lend  me  a  gown  of  puke,  and  I  have 
send  hym  a  typet  of  welvet  to  boredyr  yt  [round-^]  a  bowthe ; 
and  I  pray  zow  be  at  schesyng  there  of ;  and  yf  that  he  wyl 
not  be  cryst  calkestowe  over  hys  hed  that  is  schoryle  in 
Englysche,  yt  is  a  terme  newe  browthe  up  with  my  mars- 
chandis  of  Norwych.  Sir  John  Pampyng  recummawnd  hym 
to  zow  and  pray  zow  that  ze  wyl  remembyr  hys  harnes,  and 
yf  that  ze  can  get  the  mony  he  pray  zow  to  delyver  Parkar 
xs.  that  he  howyth  hym.  Also,  sir,  my  modyr  gretis  zow 
wel  and  send  zow  Goddis  blyssyng  and  heres,  and  prays  zow 
that  ze  wyl  bye  her  a  runlet  of  Malmesey  owthe  of  the  galey ; 
and  yf  ze  have  no  mony  sche  byd  that  ze  schuld  borow  of  my 
brother  Sir  John,  or  of  sum  other  frend  of  zowers,  and  send 
[he]r^  woord  as  hastily  as  ze  have  it,  and  sche  schale  send  zow 
mony ;  and  yf  that  ze  send  it  home  sche  byd  that  yt  schuld  be 
woond  in  a  canivasse  for  brochyng  of  the  caryars,  for  sche 
sethe  that  sche  hath  knowyn  men  served  soo  befor.  Also  I 
pray  zow,  if  ze  speke  with  Master  Roger,  tell  hym  that  yf  he 
cum  in  to  thys  cuntre  thys  crystemas,  he  schal  have  hys  xj., 
and  yf  that  he  cum  not  I  schal  send  yt  hym  be  xij,  day 
\_Twe/fl/i  Day]  at  the  fardest,     I  pray  zow,  hartely  remembyr 

*  Mutilated. 
122 


EDWARD  IV 

my  gere,  and  that  ze  wyl  desyere  Wylliam  Mylsant  on  my  be     1471 
halve  to  purvey  for  the  caryage  in  as  hasty  wyse  as  yt  can.    ^ov.  18 
Also  I  pray  zow  that  the  welvet  that  levyt  of  my  typet  may 
be  send  hom  a  geyn,  for  I  woold  strype  a  dobelet  ther  with. 
As  for  Masteres  Blakenye,  I  trowe  sche  in  zour  quarters.     I 
woold    I    had    the    same    entyrpryce   up    on    hyr    that    John 
Bramppton  of  Atylborowe  had  up  on  master  Byrston.     Alle 
the  Coorte  recommawndes  hem  tow  zow.     I  pray  zow,  and 
ze  can  get  me  any  profytable  servyce,  a  saye.     My  brother 
Sir  John  was   meved   of  my  hawnt  Ponyngges  to  have  ben 
with  here.     I  woold  have  rytgh  an  hesy  servyse  tyl  I  were    . 
owthe  of  detis.     God  have  zow  in  Hys  kepyng.     Wretyn  at 
Norwyche,  the  Monday  nex  be  fore  Sen  Edmond  the  Kyng. 

Edmond  Paston. 

On  the  back  of  the  letter  are  the  following  memoranda  :■ — ■ 

In  priniis,  to  the  pryncypall  of  Stapyll  In           .          .  vj. 

Item,  for  iiij.  lasys          ......  viij^. 

Item,  for  iij.  doseyn  poyntes  .....  v]cl. 

Item,  for  a  plonket  ryban        .....  vj^. 


790 

ABSTRACT! 

[Margaret  Paston]  to  her   Son   [Sir  John  Paston] 

Wonders  she  has  no  answer  to  her  letter  by  Ric.  Raddeley.  Wants  him  I47l(?) 
and  his  brother  to  get  a  discharge  from  my  Lord  of  Canterbury,  '  for  occupy-  nov.  20 
ing  of  your  father's  goods.'  If  my  Lord  died  before  we  got  it,  his  successor 
might  be  'more  hasty  upon  us  than  he  hath  been.'  My  Lord  knows  the  great 
charges  we  have  had  since  he  deceased,  which  have  caused  the  goods  to  be 
spent.  If  any  of  us  were  to  die,  no  one  would  take  charge  for  us  unless  we 
have  a  discharge.      Remember  the  spices  and  malmsey  I  have  sent  to  you  for. 

St.  Edmund's  Day  the  King. 
Sealed. 

[At  the  date  of  this  letter,  Sir  John  Paston  and  his  brother  John  were  together  in 
London,  and  apparently  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury  was  seriously  ill.  Of  the 
latter  fact  we  have  no  certain  knowledge,  but  it  appears  by  a  subsequent  letter  that 
there  was  a  report  of  his  death  in  June  1472,  and  the  two  brothers  were  certainly 
in  London  together  in  November  of  the  year  preceding.  It  is  probable  therefore  that 
the  Archbishop  was  ill  of  the  epidemic  which  prevailed  in  the  latter  part  of  147 1  and 
the  spring  of  1472.     The  two  brothers  were  not  together  in  November  1472.] 

1  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.] 

123 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


791 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  John  Paston,  Esquier^  be  this  delyverd  in  hast. 

147  i  X  GRETE  zow  welle,  and  send  zow  Goddes  blyssyng  and 
NOV.  29  I  myn,  letyng  zow  wete  that  I  have  a  letter  from  zour 
-*"  brother,  wherby  I  undyrstand  that  he  cannot,  ner  may, 
make  no  porveyans  for  the  C.  mark  ;  the  wyche  causythe  me 
to  be  rythgh  hevy,  and  for  other  thynges  that  he  wrytht  to  me 
of  that  he  is  in  dawnger.  For  remembering  wat  we  have  had 
befor  thys  and  ho  symppylly  yt  hath  be  spente  and  to  lytyl 
profythe  to  any  of  us,  and  now  arn  in  soche  casse  that  non  of 
us  may  welle  helpe  other  with  owte  that  we  schuld  do  that  wer 
to  gret  a  dysworschip  for  us  to  do,  owther  to  selle  wood  or 
lond  or  soche  stuffe  that  were  nessessary  for  us  to  have  in  owr 
howsys  ;  so  mot  I  answer  a  for  God,  I  wot  not  how  to  do  for 
the  seyde  money,  and  for  other  thyngges  that  I  have  to  do  of 
scharge,  and  my  worshup  saved.  Yt  is  a  deth  to  me  to  thynk 
up  on  yt.  Me  thynkyth  be  zour  brothers  wrythtyng,  that  he 
thynkyth  that  I  am  informed  be  sume  that  be  a  bowthe  me  to 
do  and  to  sey  as  I  have  be  for  thys,  but  be  my  trowthe  he 
demyth  a  mysse  ;  yt  nedyth  me  not  to  be  informed  of  no 
soche  thengges.  I  construe  in  my  owyn  mend,  and  conseyve  i 
now  and  to  myche,  and  whan  I  have  brokyn  my  conseyte  to 
sume  that  in  happe  he  deniythe  yt  too,  they  have  put  me  in 
cownforth  more  than  I  kowde  have  be  any  imajynasyon  in  my 
owyn  conseythe.  He  wrythetyth  to  me  also,  that  he  hath 
spend  thys  terme  xl//.  Yt  is  a  gret  thyng  ;  me  thynkyth  be 
good  dyscresyon  ther  mythe  myche  ther  of  aben  sparyd.  Zour 
fadyr,  God  blysse  hys  sowle,  hathe  had  as  gret  maters  to  do  as 
I  trowe  he  hathe  had  thys  terme,  and  hath  not  spend  halfe  the 
mony  up  on  them  in  so  lytyl  tyme,  and  hath  do  ryth  well.  At 
the  reverens  of  God,  avyse  hym  zet  to  be  war  of  hys  expences 
and  gydyng  that  yt  be  no  schame  to  us  alle.     Yt  is  a  schame 

^  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  St.  Andrew's  Eve,  the  29th  November,  fell  on  a 
Friday  in  1471.  It  will  also  be  seen  that  the  beginning  of  this  letter  refers  to  the 
same  subject  as  the  beginning  of  Letter  787. 

124 


EDWARD  IV 

and  a  thyng  that  is  myche  spokyn  of  in  thys  centre  that  zour  147 1 
faders  graveston  is  not  mad.  For  Goddes  love,  late  yt  be  nov.  29 
remembyrd  and  porveyde  for  in  hast.  Ther  hathe  be  mych 
mor  spend  in  waste  than  schuld  have  mad  that,  me  thynkyth 
be  zour  brother  that  he  is  wery  to  wrythe  to  me  and  there  fore 
I  wyl  not  a  kumbyr  hym  with  wrythtyng  to  hym.  Ze  may 
telle  hym  as  I  wryth  to  zow.  Item,  I  woold  ze  schuld  remem- 
byr  zour  brother  of  Pekerngges  mater,  if  he  cum  not  hom 
hastely,  that  ze  and  Townesend  and  Lumnor  may  examyn  and 
sette  yt  thorow.  The  pore  man  is  almost  on  don  ther  by,  and 
hys  brother  suethe  hym  and  trobylyth  hym  sor  zet ;  and  also 
for  the  plesur  of  my  koseyn  Clere  and  the  Lady  Bolen,  I  woold 
yt  were  sette  thorow. 

As  for  my  rowndlet  of  wyne,  I  schuld  send  zow  mony  there 
fore,  but  I  dar  not  put  yt  in  joperte,  ther  be  so  many  theves 
stereng.  John  Lovedayes  man  was  robbyd  in  to  hys  schyrte 
as  he  cam  home  ward.  I  trow,  and  ze  assaye  Towneshend  or 
Playter,  or  sum  other  good  kuntery  man  of  owrys  to  lend  yt 
zow  for  me  tyl  they  cum  hom,  they  wyl  do  so  myche  for  me 
and  I  schal  contente  them  a  geyn.  Item,  Jamys  Gressham 
hath  ben  passyng  sekke  and  ys  zet.  Judy  tellythe  me  that 
zour  brother  is  avysed  for  to  sue  hym.  For  Goddes  sake,  late 
non  onkyndnesse  be  schewed  to  hym,  for  that  woold  sone  make 
an  hend  of  hym.  Remembyr  ho  keynd  and  true  hartyd  he 
hath  ben  to  us  to  hys  powre  ;  and  he  had  nevere  take  that 
offyce  upon  hym  that  he  is  in  dawnger  for,  ne  had  be  for 
owr  sakkes.  He  hathe  sold  a  gret  parte  of  hys  lond  there  for, 
as  I  suppose  ze  have  knowlache  of.  Late  yt  be  remembyrd, 
and  ellys  owr  enmyes  wyl  rejoysyt,  and  ther  wyl  no  wurshup 
be  ther  in  at  long  way, 

I  schuld  wryth  mor  but  I  have  no  leyser  at  thys  tyme.  I 
trow  ze  wyl  sone  kum  hom,  and  there  fore  I  wryth  the  lesse. 
God  kepe  zow  and  send  zow  good  speede,  &c.  Wretyn  the 
Fryday,  Sen  Andrue  Ev. 

Be  zour  modyr. 

The  foUo'Vjrng  note  is  ^written  on  the  back  of  the  Letter  in  Sir  John  Fenns  hand: — 
'  This  letter  was  fastened  by  threads  brought  through  with  a  needle  and  made  fast  by 
the  seal.  The  threads  being  cut  on  the  directed  side,  the  letter  is  opened  without 
breaking  the  seal.' 

125 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

792 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON,  ESQUIRE  1 

To  John  Paston^  Esquyer^  be  this  deliuered. 

H7i(0  T  GRETE  you  wele,  and  send  you  Goddis  blyssyng  and 
DEC.  [i]  I  myn.  Desyryng  you  to  send  me  word  how  that  your 
brother  doth.  It  was  told  her  that  he  shuld  have  be  ded, 
which  caused  many  folkis  and  me  bothyn  to  be  right  hevy. 
Also  it  was  told  me  this  day  that  ye  wer  hurt  be  affray  that 
was  mad  up  on  you  be  feles  disgysed.  Ther  fore,  in  any  wyse 
send  me  word  in  hast  how  your  brother  doth  and  ye  bothyn  ; 
for  I  shall  not  ben  wele  at  eas  till  I  know  how  that  ye  do. 
And  for  Goddis  love  lete  your  brother  and  ye  be  ware  how 
that  ye  walken,  and  with  what  felesshep  ye  etyn  or  drynkyn, 
and  in  what  place,  for  it  was  seid  here  pleynly  that  your 
brothere  was  poysoned.  And  this  weke  was  on  of  Drayton 
with  me  and  told  me  that  there  were  diverse  of  the  tenauntis 
seid  that  thei  wost  not  what  to  do  if  that  your  brothere  came 
home  ;  and  ther  was  on  of  the  Duk  of  Suffolkis  men  by,  and 
bad  them  not  feryn,  for  his  wey  shuld  be  shorted  and  [i.e.  if] 
he  shuld  come  there.  Wherfore,  in  any  wyse  be  ware  of  your 
self,  for  I  can  thynk  thei  geve  no  fors  what  to  do  to  be  wenged 
and  to  put  you  from  your  entent,  that  thei  myght  have  her 
wyll    in    Ser   John    Fastolffis   land.       Thy[nke]  ^    what   gret 

sor[ow] '  it  [shu]ld  ^  be  to  me  and  any 

I  had  lever  ye  had  never  know  the  lond  ;  remem- 

bre  it  was  the  distruccion  of  your  fadre  ;  trost  not  mych  up  on 
promyses  of  lordis  now  a  days  that  ye  shuld  be  the  suerer  of 
the  favor  of  there  men.  For  there  was  a  man,  and  a  lordis 
sone,  seid  but  late,  and  toke  it  for  an  exampill  that  Sir  Robert 
Harecourt  had  the  good  will  of  the  lordis  after  ther  comyng  in, 
and  yet  within  shorte  tyme  after  here  men  kylled  hym  in  hys 

1  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  21 1.]  This  letter  may  be  of  the  year  147 1,  when  it  would 
seem  by  No.  791  that  the  two  brothers,  Sir  John  and  John,  were  both  together  (in 
London,  no  doubt)  about  St.  Andrew's  Day.  If  so,  it  was  written  just  two  days  after 
that  letter,  on  the  receipt  of  unpleasant  news,  which  was  evidently  false. 

2  Mutilated. 

126 


EDWARD  IV 

owyn   place.      A   mannes   deth   is  litill   set   by   now  a  days.  1 47 1  (?) 
Therefore  be  ware  of  symulacion,  for  thei  wull  speke  ryht  fayr    dec.  [i] 
to  you  that  wuld  ye  ferd   [fared']  right  evyll.     The   blissid 
Trynyte  have  you  in  his  kepyng.     Wretyn  in  gret  hast  the 
Saterday  next  after  Sent  Andrewe. 

Lete  this  letter  be  brent  whan  ye  have  understond  it. 
Item,  I  pray  you  send  me  iiij.  suger  lofis,  ich  of  them  of  iij/z., 
and  iiij/z.  of  datis  if  thei  be  newe.  I  send  you  xj.  be  the  berer 
hereof ;  if  ye  pay  more  I  shall  pay  it  you  ageyn  whan  ye  come 
home.  And  forgete  not  to  send  me  word  be  the  berere  hereof 
how  ye  don  ;  and  remembre  the  bylles  and  remembrauns  for 
the  maner  of  Gresham  that  I  wrote  to  your  brother  for. 

Be  your  moder. 


793 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTONi 

.  the  very  valew  of  Sporlewood  passyth  not  C.  mark  147 1 
of  no  manys  mony  that  I  can  spek  with,  and  to  be  payid  by 
dayis  as  the  byll  that  Jwde  shall  delyv[er]  .  .  .  rehers  ; 
and  ther  ayenst  ye  shold  loose  iij//.  of  the  ferme  of  the  maner 
yerly,  whych  standyth  by  undyr  wood  ;  and  yet  the  fense  must 
stand  yow  over  on  xij.  mark  by  the  lest  wey  ;  but,  by  God, 
and  I  wer  as  ye,  I  wold  not  sell  it  for  C,  mark  more  then  it  is 
woorthe.  Syr  John  Styll  recomandyth  hym  to  your  good 
mastyrsheppe,  and  seyth  pleynly  if  ye  wyll  he  wyll  com  up  to 
yow  and  awayte  on  yow  whersoever  ye  be,  coort  or  othyr.  By 
Seynt  Mary,  he  is  owyng  more  mony  than  I  wend  ;  for  he  is 
owyng  for  a  twelmonthe  and  a  quarter  at  thys  Crystmas,  savyng 
for  hys  boord,  xij^.  a  wek  for  iij.  quarters;  and  he  scythe 
pleynly  that  ye  and  R.  Calle  both  bad  hym  syng  styll  for  Syr 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  seems  to  be  only  a  portion  of  a  letter,  begin- 
ning in  the  middle  of  a  sentence.  Probably  it  was  a  second  leaf  added  to  a  more 
lengthy  epistle.  It  is  written  on  one  side  of  a  slip  of  paper  and  is  in  the  hand  of  John 
Paston  the  younger.  It  is  endorsed  'John  Paston '  in  that  of  his  brother  Sir  John,  to 
whom  it  was  doubtless  addressed.  The  date  must  be  towards  the  end  of  the  year 
14.71,  as  it  appears  by  the  letter  immediately  following  that  Lord  Rivers  embarked  for 
Portugal  that  year  on  Christmas  Eve. 

127 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

^47^  John  Fastolf  as  he  dyd  before;  but  I  have  bodyn  hym  that  he 
shall  get  hym  a  servyse  now  at  thys  Crystmas  ;  and  so  he  shall, 
withowt  that  ye  send  hym  othyr  wyse  woord,  or  ellys  that  ye 
or  I  may  get  hym  som  benefyse  or  fre  chapell,  or  som  othyr 
good  servyse  whych  I  praye  yow  enqwer  for. 

Item,  and  ye  werk  wysly  your  mater  myght  com  in  with 
othyr  maters  of  the  lordes  in  ther  apoyntmentes  with  the  Kyng, 
but  it  wold  be  labord  to  a  porpose  this  Crystmas  whyll  ye  have 
leyser  to  spek  with  your  mastyr.  Item,  myn  aqweyntans  with 
the  Lord  Revers  is  none  othyrwyse  but  as  it  hathe  ben  alweys ; 
savyng  and  he  go  no  to  Portygall  to  be  at  a  day  upon  the 
Serasyns,  I  porpose  and  have  promysyd  to  be  ther  with  hym  ; 
and  that  jorney  don,  as  Wykys  seythe,  farwell  he.  He  por- 
posyth  to  go  forward  a  bowt  Lent,  but  Fortune  with  hyr 
smylyng  contenans  strange  of  all  our  porpose  may  mak  a 
sodeyn  change.  I  ensuer  yow  he  thynkyth  all  the  world 
gothe  on  ther  syd  ayen  ;  and  as  for  my  comyng  up  at  the 
begynnyng  of  thys  next  term,  with  owt  ye  send  me  othyrwyse 
woord  that  I  myght  do  yow  som  good  when  I  wer  com,  by  my 
feyth  I  com  not  ther,  for  it  shold  put  yow  to  a  cost,  and  me  to 
a  labor  and  cost  bothe  ;  but  [if]  ye  send  for  me  I  com  streyght, 
thow  I  tery  the  lesse  whyll  ther,  and  so  I  shall  withowt  I  may 
do  yow  som  good.  By  my  feythe  I  porpose  to  make  up  my 
byllys  clere,  and  send  yow  the  copyse  as  hastyly  as  I  can. 
Yonge  Wyseman  othyrwye  callyd  Foole,  told  me  that  Sir  W. 
Yelverton  is  abowt  to  make  a  bargayne  with  the  Dwches  of 
Suffolk  or  with  my  Lord  of  Norfolk,  whyche  he  may  get  fyrst, 
for  the  maner  of  Gwton.     I  reseyve  all  yet,  God  hold  it, 

I  praye  yow  recomand  me  to  my  brodyr  Molyenewx,  and 
all  othyr  good  felaws. 

J.  p. 


128 


EDWARD  IV 


794 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON^ 

1GRETE  you  wele  ;  letyng  you  wete  that  ther  was  told  me  1471 
a  thyng  in  your  absens  that  goth  right  nere  myn  hert,  be 
a  wurchepfull  man  and  such  an  as  ye  wuld  beleve  and 
gefFe  credence  to,  and  that  owyth  you  right  good  wille ;  which 
if  it  had  comyn  to  myn  remembraunce  at  your  departer  I  wuld 
have  spoke  to  you  of  it  most  specially  befor  all  other  materis  ; 
but  I  am  so  trobilled  in  my  mende  with  your  materis  that  thei 
be  so  delayd  and  take  no  better  conclusion,  and  with  the 
ontrowth  that  is  in  servantis  now  a  days  but  if  the  maysteris 
take  better  heed  to  ther  handis,  that  such  thyngis  as  I  wuld 
rathest  remembre  I  sonest  for  gete.  It  was  told  me  that  ye 
have  sold  Sporle  wood  of  a  right  credebill  and  wurchepful 
man,  and  that  was  right  hevy  that  ye  shuld  be  know  of  such 
disposicion,  consederyng  how  your  fader,  whos  sowle  God 
assoyl,  cherysshed  in  every  manor  his  woodis.  And  for  the 
more  preffe  that  this  shuld  be  trought,  the  forseid  person  told 
me  that  it  was  told  hym  of  on  [one^  that  was  toward  Sir 
William  Yelverton,  to  whom  Richard  Calle  shuld  have  seid  in 
thes  termes,  that  Sporle  Wood  shuld  be  sold,  and  that  it  shuld 
comyn  now  in  to  Cristen  mennes  handis.  Which  if  it  were 
knowyn  shuld  cause  bothyn  your  elmyse  \_enemies]  and  your 
frendis  to  thynk  that  ye  dede  it  for  right  gret  nede,  or  ellis 
that  ye  shuld  be  a  wastour  and  wuld  wast  your  lyvelod.  If  ye 
had  do  so  in  Sir  John  Fastolfes  lyffelode,  men  shuld  have 
supposid  that  ye  had  do  it  of  good  pollice,  be  cause  of  the 
onsuerte  that  it  stoonit  (?)  in,  to  have  takyn  that  ye  had  myght 
of  it  duryng  your  possession,  to  have  boryn  ought  the  daungere 
of  it  with  the  same  ;  but  for  to  do  this  of  your  owyn  lyffelode, 
men  shall  thyng  that  ye  do  it  for  pure  nede.  And  in  asmych 
as  it  is  so  nere  your  most  elmyse  ere,  it  shall  be  to  you  the 
gretter  vylney  and  shame  to  all  your  frendis,  and  the  grettest 

1  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  116.]  This  letter  would  seem  to  have  been  written  about 
the  end  of  the  year  1471  or  the  beginning  of  1472,  when  we  first  hear  of  Sir  John 
Paston's  design  to  sell  Sporle  Wood.     See  Nos.  793,  798. 

VOL.  V. 1  129 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1 47 1  coragyng  and  plesere  that  can  be  to  your  elmyse.  For  if  ye 
be  thus  disposid  ye  shall  make  them  and  all  othere  certeyn  of 
that  that  befor  this  tyme  thei  haue  ben  in  dought,  and  cause 
them  to  purpose  the  more  cruelly  agayn  you.  Where  fore,  in 
eschewyng  of  the  greet  slaundre  and  inconveniens  that  may 
grow  ther  of,  I  require  you,  and  more  over  charge  you  upon 
my  blissyng  and  as  ye  wull  have  my  good  will,  that  if  any  such 
sale  or  bargany  be  mad,  be  your  assent  or  with  ought,  be  Calle, 
or  any  othere  in  your  name,  that  ye  restreyn  it ;  for  I  wuld 
not  for  a  M'  marcs  that  it  wer  understond  that  ye  were  of  that 
disposicion,  ner  that  ye  were  comyn  to  so  gret  nede  which 
shuld  cause  [y]ou  to  do  so  ;  for  every  [man  ^]  shuld  thynk  that 
it  were  thurgh  your  owyn  mysgovernaunce.  Therefore  I 
charge  you,  if  any  such  bargayn  be  mad,  that  ye  send  a  bill  as 
hastly  as  ye  can  to  Herry  Halman,  that  he  do  all  such  as  have 
mad  or  takyn  that  bargayn  seasse  and  felle  non  of  the  wood, 
upon  peyn  that  may  falle  ther  of.  And  how  [who']  so  ever  wull 
councell  you  the  contrary,  do  as  I  advyse  you  in  this  behalfFe, 
or  ellis  trost  never  to  have  comfort  of  me  ;  and  if  I  may  knowe 
ye  be  of  such  disposicion,  and  I  leve  ij.  yer  it  shall  disavayll  you 
in  my  liffelode  ccc.  marcs.  There  fore,  send  me  word  be  the 
berere  here  of  wheder  ye  have  assent  to  any  such  thyng  or 
nought,  and  how  that  ye  be  disposid  to  do  ther  in,  for  I  shall 
not  be  quiete  in  myn  hert  till  I  understand  yow  of  the  contrary 
disposicion. 

Be  your  more  moder. 

795 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  2 

To  my  most  honorahl  and  tendre  modre^  Margrete 
Paston,  be  thys  letter  delivered. 

1472  1^  ^OST  worschypfull  and  kynde  moodre,  I  comande  me 
JAN.  8        V/l       to  yow,  and  beseche  yow  off  yowr  dayly  blyssyng 

■^  and  remembraunce.     Please  it  yow  to  wete  thatt  I 

have  my  pardon,^  as  the  berer  heroff  can  informe  yow,  for 

1  Omitted  in  MS.  2  j^Prom  Fenn,  ii.  86,] 

3  His  pardon  passed  the  Great  Seal  on  the  21st  December  147 1.      Pardon  Roll 
1 1  Edward  iv.,  m.  25. 

130 


EDWARD  IV 

comffbrt  wheroffe  I  have  been  the  marier  thys  Crystmesse,  and  14?'^ 
have  been  parte  therofF  with  Sir  George  Browen,^  and  with  my  J^n.  8 
Lady  myn  aunte,  hys  wyfFe,^  and  be  ffor  Twelthe  ^  1  come  to 
my  Lorde  Archebysshope,*  wher  I  have  hadde  as  greete  cheer, 
and  ben  as  welkom  as  I  cowde  devyse ;  and  iff  I  hadde  ben  in 
sewerte  that  Castr  weer  hadde  ageyn,  I  wolde  have  comen 
homewards  thys  daye.^ 

*  •  •  •  ••  V  ■ 

And  I  beseche  yow  to  remembr  my  brother  to  doo  hys 
deveyr  thatt  I  maye  have  agayn  my  stuffe,  my  bookes  and 
vestments,  and  my  beddyng,  how  so  evyr  he  doo,  thoghe  I 
scholde  gyffe  xx"  scutes  by  hys  advyse  to  my  Lady  Brandon, 
or  some  other  goode  felawe. 

As  for  any  tydynges  ther  be  noon  heer,  saffe  that  the  Kyng 
hath  kept  a  ryall  Crystmesse ;  and  now  they  seye  that  hastelye 
he  woll  northe,  and  some  seye  that  he  woll  into  Walys,  and 
some  seye  that  he  woll  into  the  West  Contre.  As  ffor  Qween 
Margrett,  I  understond  that  sche  is  remevyd  from  Wyndesor 
to  Walyngfforthe,  nyghe  to  Ewhelme,  my  Lady  of  Suffolk 
Place  in  Oxenforthe  schyre. 

And  men  seye  that  the  Lorde  Ryverse  schyppyd  on  Cryst- 
messe evyn  in  to  Portyngale  warde  ;  I  am  not  serteyn. 

Also  the  schalle  be  a  convocacion  off  the  Clergye  in  all 
haste,  whyche  men  deeme  will  avayle  the  Kynge  a  dyme  and 
an  halffe,  some  seye.  I  beseche  God  sende  yow  goode  heele 
and  greater  joye  in  on  year  then  ye  have  hadde  thys  vij. 

Wretyn  att  the  Moor  the  viij.  daye  off  Janever,  A°  E. 
mj.  xj. 

By  yowr  soone,         John  Paston,  K. 

1  Sir  George  Browne,  Knight,  of  Betchworth  Castle,  in  Surrey. — F. 

2  Elizabeth  Paston,  formerly  married  to  Robert  Poynings, 

3  Twelfth  day,  6th  of  Januaiy. — F. 

*  George  Neville,  Archbishop  of  York. — F. 

°  Here  follow  directions  about  Caister,  and  a  hope  that  it  might  be  had  again  by 
the  latter  end  of  the  term,  when  he  would  come  home,  and  put  his  lands  and  houses 
into  order. — F. 


131 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

796 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  my  ryght  worchepfull  brodyr,  Syr  John  Paslon,  Knyght, 

be  thy 5  delyveryd. 

1472      I  '\  YGHT  worchepfull  syr,  I  recomand  me  to  yow  in  my 
JAN.  23      r^       best  wyse,  lykeyth  yow  to  wet^ 

■^  ^  that  I  have  thys  day  delyveryd  yowr  mantyll,  yowr 
ray  gowne,^  and  yowr  crosbowys,  wyth  telers  and  wyndas,  and 
yowr  Normandy  byll  to  Kerby  to  bryng  wyth  hym  to  London. 

Item,  in  eny  wyse,  and  [//"]  ye  can  axe  the  probate  of  my 
fadyrs  wyll  to  be  gevyn  yow  wyth  the  bargayn  that  ye  make 
wyth  my  Lord  of  Canterbery,  and  I  can  thynk  that  ye  may 
have  it,  and  as  soone  as  it  is  prevyd  ye  or  I  may  have  a  lettyr 
of  mynystracyon  upon  the  same,  and  a  qwetance  of  my  Lord 
Cardinalle  evyn  foorthe  wyth ;  and  thys  wer  one  of  the  best 
bargaynys  that  ye  mad  thys  ij.  yer  I  enswyr  yow,  and  he  may 
make  yow  aqwetance  or  get  yow  one  of  the  Bysheop  of  Wyn- 
chestyr  for  Syr  John  Fastolfys  goodes  also,  and  in  my  reson 
thys  wer  lyght  to  be  browght  a  bowght  with  the  same  bargayn. 
And  ye  purpose  to  bargayn  with  hym  ye  had  need  to  hye  yow, 
for  it  is  tolde  me  that  my  Lord  of  Norffolk  wyl  entyr  in  to  it 
hastyly,  and  if  he  so  doo,  it  is  the  wers  for  yow,  and  it  wyll 
cawse  them  to  profyr  the  lesse  sylvyr. 

Item,  I  pray  yow  send  me  some  secret  tydyngs  of  the 
lyklyed  of  the  world  by  the  next  messenger  that  comyth 
between,  that  I  may  be  eyther  myryer  or  ellys  mor  sory  then  I 
am,  and  also  that  I  may  gwyd  me  ther  aftyr. 

Item,  as  for  Sir  R.  Wyngfeld,  I  can  get  no  x.  //.  of  hym, 

1  [From  Fenn,  iv.  4Z0.]  It  appears  by  a  letter  of  the  17th  February  following 
(No.  798),  that  at  the  beginning  of  the  year  1472  the  Pastons  were  endeavouring  to 
come  to  an  understanding  with  the  Duke  of  Norfolk  by  the  intercession  of  the 
Duchess.     For  further  evidence  of  date,  see  the  next  letter. 

2  A  blank  occurs  here  in  Fenn's  left-hand,  or  literal  copy,  which  is  not  explained. 

3  This  means  a  gown  made  of  cloth  that  was  never  either  coloured  or  dyed. — F. 
But  according  to  Halliwell  '  ray  '  means  striped  cloth. 

132 


EDWARD  IV 

but  he  seyth  that  I  shall  have  the  fayirest  harneys  that  I  can  1472 
bye  in  London  for  sylvyr,  but  money  can  I  non  get.  I  can  J^^.  23 
not  yet  make  my  pesse  wyth  my  Lord  of  NorfFolk  nor  my 
Lady  by  no  meane,  yet  every  man  tellyth  me  that  my  Lady 
seyth  passyngly  well  of  me  allweys  notwithstandyng.  I  trowe 
that  they  wyll  swe  the  apell  ^  thys  term,  yet  ther  is  no  man  of 
us  indytyd  but  if  it  wer  doon  a  for  the  crowners  er  then 
we  cam  owt  of  the  plase ;  ther  is  now  but  iij.  men  in  it, 
and  the  brygges  alwey  drawyn.  No  mor,  but  God  lant  yow 
myn  her.^ 

Wretyn  the  Twysday  next  aftyr  Seynt  Agnet  the  fyrst.^ 

J- P. 

Item,  yestyrday  W,  Gornay  entryd  in  to  Saxthorp  and  ther 
was  he  kepyng  of  a  coort,  and  had  the  tenaunts  attou[r]nyd 
to  him,  but  er  the  coort  was  all  doon,  I  cam  thedyr  with  a 
man  with  me  and  no  more,  and  ther,  befor  hym  and  all  hys 
feluwschep,  Gayne,  Bomsted,  &c.,  I  chargyd  the  tenaunts  that 
they  shold  proced  no  ferther  in  ther  coort  upon  peyn  that 
myght  foUe  of  it,  and  they  lettyd  for  a  seasen.  But  they  sye 
that  I  was  not  abyll  to  make  my  partye  good,  and  so  they 
procedyd  ferther  ;  and  I  sye  that,  and  set  me  downe  by  the 
stward  and  blottyd  hys  book  wyth  my  fyngyr  as  he  wrot,  so 
that  all  tenaunts  afermyd  that  the  coort  was  enterupte  by  me 
as  in  yowr  ryght,  and  I  reqwered  them  to  record  that  ther  was 
no  pesybyll  coort  kept,  and  so  they  seyd  they  wold. 

1  This  must  be  the  appeal  of  the  two  widows,  though  one  of  them  is  said  to  have 
married  again.     See  No.  783. 

2  This  sentence  I  wish  to  have  explained. — F. 

3  The  festival  of  St.  Agnes,  the  first  (and  the  most  noted  of  the  two),  was  kept 
on  the  2ist  of  January;  her  second  festival  was  on  the  28th  of  the  same  month, 
which  it  is  to  be  observed  was  not  the  octave  of  the  former,  but  a  distinct  feast  upon 
a  different  occasion,  and  it  is  sometimes  written  '  Agnetis  Nativitas ' ;  but  it  was  on 
account  of  a  miracle  wrought  at  her  tomb  that  this  second  feast  was  instituted. — F. 


133 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

797 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  i 

To  John  Paston^  Esguyer^  be  thys  delivered. 

1472  "y  GRETE  you  wele,  and  send  you  Godds  blyssyng  and 
FEB.  5  I  myn,  letyng  you  wete  that  the  woman  that  sewyth  the 
appell  ageyn  your  brother  and  his  men  is  comyn  to 
London  to  call  ther  up  on.  And  whan  that  she  shuld  come 
to  London  ther  was  delivered  her  C.  s.  for  to  sewe  with,  so 
that  be  that  I  here  in  this  countre  she  wull  not  leve  it,  but 
that  she  shall  calle  ther  up  on  such  tyme  as  shall  be  to  your 
most  rebuke,  but  if  [unless']  ye  ley  the  better  wetch.  She  hath 
evill  councell,  and  that  wull  see  you  gretely  uttered,  and  that 
ye  may  understand  be  the  money  that  was  take  her  whan  she 
came  up,  and  ye  shuld  fynd  it,  I  knowe  it  wele,  if  ther  myght 
have  you  at  avauntage  ;  ther  for,  for  Godds  sake  make  diligent 
serge  be  the  advyce  of  your  councell,  that  ther  be  no  necglicens 
in  you  in  this  mater  ner  other  for  diffaught  of  labour,  and  call 
upon  your  brother,  and  telle  hym  that  I  send  hym  Godds 
blyssyng  and  myn,  and  desire  hym  that  he  wull  now  a  while, 
whill  he  hath  the  Lords  at  his  entent,  that  he  seke  the  meanes 
to  make  an  ende  of  his  maters,  for  his  elmyses  arn  gretly 
coracred  now  of  late  ;  what  is  the  cause  I  knowe  not.  Also,  I 
pray  you  speke  to  Playter  that  ther  may  be  fownd  a  meane 
that  the  shereffe  or  the  gaderer  of  grene  wax^  may  be  dis- 
charged of  certeyn  issues  that  renne  up  on  Fastolf  for  Mariotts 
mater,  for  the  balyfe  was  at  hym  this  weke,  and  shuld  have 
streyned  hym,  but  that  he  promysed  hym  that  he  shuld  with 
in  this  viij.  days  labore  the  meanes  that  he  shuld  be  discharged 

1  [From  Fenn,  iv.  424.]  As  anticipated  in  the  preceding  letter  we  here  find  that 
steps  are  being  taken  by  one  of  the  two  women  whose  husbands  were  killed  at  the 
siege  of  Caister,  to  prosecute  the  appeal  against  Sir  John  for  her  husband's  death. 
The  other  woman,  as  will  be  seen  by  Letter  783,  had  married  again  during  the  year 
14.71,  and  was  thus  disqualified  from  pursuing  the  same  course. 

-  Estreats  delivered  to  the  Sheriff  out  of  the  Exchequer,  to  be  levied  In  his 
county  under  the  Seal  of  that  Court,  made  in  green  wax,  were  from  thence  called 
green  wax. — F. 


EDWARD  IV 

or  ell[es]  he  must  content  hym,  &c.  Also,  I  send  you  be  the  1472 
berer  her  of,  closed  in  this  letter,  v.  s.  of  gold,  and  pray  you  feb.  5 
to  bey  me  a  suger  loyfe,  and  dates,  and  almaunds,  and  send  it 
me  hame,  and  if  ye  bewar  [_/ay  out]  any  mor  money,  whan  ye 
came  hame  I  shall  pait  you  ageyn.  The  Holy  Gost  kepe  you 
bothyn,  and  deliver  you  of  your  elmyse  [enemies],  Wretyn  on 
Sent  Agas  Day,  in  hast. 

Item,  I  pray  you  speke  to  Mayster  Roger -^  for  my  sorepe, 
for  I  had  never  mor  nede  therof,  and  send  it  me  as  hastly  as 
ye  can. 

Be  M.  P. 

798 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO   JOHN  PASTON  2 

A  Johan  Paston,  Esquier^  soit  done. 

BROTHER,  I  comande  me  to  yow,  and  praye  yow  to    feb.  17 
loke  uppe  my  'Temple  of  Glassed  and  send  it  me  by 
the  berer  herof. 

Item,  as  for  tydyngs,  I  have  spoken  with  Mestresse  Anne 
Hault,  at  a  praty  leyser,  and,  blyssyd  be  God,  we  be  as  fFer 
fforthe  as  we  weer  toffoor,  and  so  I  hoope  we  schall  contenew ; 
and  I  promysed  hyr,  that  at  the  next  leyser  that  I  kowd  ffynde 
therto  that  I  wolde  come  ageyn  and  see  hyr  ;  whyche  wyll  take 
a  leyser  as  [I]  deeme  now  ;  syn  thys  observance  is  over  doon, 
I  purpose  nott  to  tempte  God  noo  moor  soo. 

Yisterday  the  Kynge,  the  Qween,  my  Lordes  of  Claraunce 
and  Glowcester,  wente  to  Scheen  to  pardon  ;  men  sey,  nott 
alle  in  cheryte ;  what  wyll  falle,  men  can  nott  seye. 

The  Kynge  entretyth  my  Lorde  off  Clarance  ffor  my 
Lorde   of  Glowcester  ;    and,  as  itt  is   seyde,   he   answerythe, 

1  Master  Roger  was,  I  suppose,  some  leech  famous  for  his  syrups,  etc. — F. 

2  [From  Fenn,  ii.  90.]  After  the  death  of  Prince  Edward,  the  son  of  Henry  vi., 
who  is  said  to  have  been  murdered  just  after  the  Battle  of  Tewkesbury  in  May  1471, 
Richard,  Duke  of  Gloucester,  married  his  widow  Anne,  who  was  the  daughter  of 
Warwick  the  Kingmaker.  The  reference  to  the  proposed  sale  of  Sporle  wood  goes 
further  to  fix  the  date.     See  Letter  793,  and  Nos.  819  and  820  following. 

3  A  poem  of  Lydgate's. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1472    that   he  may  weell  have  my  Ladye  hys  suster  in  lawe,  butt 
FEB.  17    they  schall  parte  no  lyvelod,  as  he  seythe ;  so  what  wyll  falle 
can  I  nott  seye. 

Thys  daye  I  purpose  to  see  my  Lady  off  Norffolk  ageyn, 
in  goode  howr  be  it  I 

Ther  is  proferyd  me  marchaunts  fFor  Sporle  woode.  God 
sende  me  goode  sale  whan  I  be  gynne ;  that  poor  woode  is 
soor  manashed  and  thrett. 

Yitt  woote  I  nott  whether  I  come  home  beffoor  Esterne  or 
nott,  I  schall  sende  yow  worde.     No  moor,  &c. 
Wretyn  the  fFyrst  Tewesdaye  off  Lenton. 

John  Paston,  K. 

799 

ABSTRACT! 

APRIL  10  Norfolk  and  Suffolk  Deeds,  No.  38. — '  Relaxatio  Johannis  Paston  facta 

Willielmo  Wainflet  et  aliis  totius  juris  in  manerio  vocat'  Pedham  Hall  in 
Beyton,  etc.,  in  omnibus  terris,  tenementis,  redditibus,  etc.,  in  villis  de  Beyton, 
Akie,  Birlingham,  et  Hykling,  quae  quondam  fuerunt  Johannis  Fastolf. — 
April  10,  Edw.  IV.,  12.' — There  is  a  similar  deed  of  the  same  date  including 
the  manor  of  Titchwell,  numbered  '  Titchwell,  5,'  in  the  collection. 

800 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  HIS  BROTHER, 
JOHN  PASTON 2 

To  Master  John  Paston,  or  to  my  mestresse,  hys  Modre, 
be  this  letter  delyveryd  in  hast. 

APRIL  30    1  '\  ROTHER,  I  comand  me  to  yow  ^  .  .  . 

■^-^  By  Juddy  I  sende  yow  a  letter  by  Corby  with  in  iiij. 
dayes  byffor  thys  ;  and  ther  with  ij.  potts  off  oyle  for  saladys, 

1  [From  MS.  Index  in  Magd.  Coll.,  Oxford.] 

2  [From  Fenn,  i.  288.]  The  date  of  this  letter  is  ascertained  by  the  fact  that  Sir 
Thomas  Waldegrave  died  on  the  28th  April  14.72. — See  Inquisition  post  mortem, 
12  Edw.  IV.,  No.  4. 

3  Here  (according  to  Fenn)  follows  an  order  for  making  out  an  account  and 
receiving  some  rents,  etc. 

136 


EDWARD  IV 

whyche  oyle  was  goode  as  myght  be  when  I  delyveryd  itt,  and     147^ 
schall  be  goode  at  the  resey vynge,  iff  it  be  nott  mysse  handelyd,  ^^^'^  3° 
nor  mysse  karryd. 

Item,  as  ffor  tydyngs,  the  Erie  of  Northomberlonde  is 
hoome  in  to  the  Northe,  and  my  Lord  off  Glowcester  schall 
afftr  as  to  morow,  men  seye.  Also  thys  daye  Robert  of 
Racclyff  weddyd  the  Lady  Dymmok  at  my  place  in  Fleet- 
street,  and  my  Ladye  and  yowrs,  Dame  Elizbeth  Bowghcher/ 
is  weddyd  to  the  Lorde  Howards  soon  and  heyr.^  Also  Sir 
Thomas  Walgrave  is  ded  off  the  syknesse  that  reygnyth,  on 
Tewesday,  now  [«<?]  cheer  ffor  yowe.  Also  my  Lorde  Arche- 
bysshope  ^  was  browt  to  the  Towr  on  Saterday  at  nyght,  and 
on  Mondaye,  at  mydnyght,  he  was  conveyd  to  a  schyppe,  and 
so  in  to  the  see,  and  as  yitt  I  can  nott  undrestande  whedyr  he 
is  sent,  ner  whatt  is  fallyn  off  hym ;  men  seye,  that  he  hathe 
offendyd,  but  as  John  Forter  seythe,  some  men  sey  naye ;  but 
all  hys  meny  ar  dysparblyd  [^dispersedl,  every  man  hys  weye  ; 
and  som  that  ar  greete  klerkys,  and  famous  doctors  of  hys, 
goo  now  ageyn  to  Cambrygge  to  scoolle.  As  ffor  any  other 
tydyngs  I  heer  noon.  The  Cowntesse  off  Oxenfford  ^  is  stylle 
in  Seynt  Martyns ;  I  heer  no  word  off  hyr.  The  Qween 
hadde  chylde,  a  dowghter,  but  late  at  Wyndesor  ;  ther  off  I 
trow  ye  hadde  worde.  And  as  ffor  me,  I  am  in  lyke  case  as 
I  was.  And  as  ffor  my  Lorde  Chamberleyn,^  he  is  nott  yitt 
comen  to  town  ;  when  he  comythe  than  schall  I  weete  what  to 
doo.  Sir  John  of  Parr  is  yowr  ffrende  and  myn,  and  I  gaffe 
hym  a  ffayr  armyng  sworde  within  this  iij.  dayes.  I  harde 
somwhat  by  hym  off  a  bakke  ffreende  off  yowr  ;  ye  schall 
knowe  moor  her  afftr. 

Wretyn  the  last  daye  of  Apryll. 

'  Elizabeth,  daughter  and  heiress  of  Sir  Frederic  Tilney,  Knight,  and  widow  of 
Sir  Humphrey  Bourchier,  son  of  John,  first  Lord  Berners.  Her  husband  was  slain  at 
the  battle  of  Barnet. 

2  Thomas  Howard,  afterwards  created  Duke  of  Norfolk,  by  Henry  viii.,  for  his 
victory  over  the  Scots  at  Flodden.     He  was  son  and  heir  of  John,  Lord  Howard. 

3  George  Nevill,  Archbishop  of  York. 

*  Margaret,  wife  of  John  de  Vere,  Earl  of  Oxford,  daughter  of  Richard  Nevill, 
Earl  of  Salisbury,  and  sister  of  Warwick  the  Kingmaker. 
5  William,  Lord  Hastings, 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

8oi 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  i 

To  Mastyr  Syr  John  Paston,  Knyght,  in  hast. 

1472  ^  YR,  I  recomande  me  to  yow,  &c.  W.  Gorney  and  I  ar 
MAY  14  ^N  apoyntyd  that  ther  shall  no  mony  be  takyn  at  Saxthorp 
^-^  tyll  thys  terme  be  past,  for  he  hathe  promysyd  me  to 
spek  with  yow  and  your  consell,  and  that  ye  shall  tak  a  wey 
betwyx  yow  so  that  ye  shall  be  bothe  plesyd.  He  had  warnyd 
a  coort  at  Saxthorp  and  to  have  be  kep  upon  Holy  Rood  Day 
last  past,  and  ther  he  wold  have  gadyrd  the  half  yere  ferm,  but 
it  fortunyd  me  to  be  there  ere  the  coort  was  half  done,  and  I 
took  syche  a  wey  with  hym  that  the  qwest  gave  no  verdyt,  ner 
they  procedyd  no  ferther  in  ther  cort,  nor  gadyrd  no  mony 
ther,  nor  not  shall  do,  tyll  syche  tym  as  ye  spek  to  gedyr,  and 
[if]  ye  be  at  London  thys  term ;  but  and  ye  be  not  at  London, 
I  wold  avyse  yow  to  let  Townysend  tak  a  wey  with  hym,  for 
it  lyeth  not  in  my  power  to  keep  werre  with  hym  ;  for  and  I 
had  not  delt  ryght  corteysly  up  on  Holy  Rood  Day  I  had 
drownk  to  myn  oystyrs,  for  yowng  Heydon  had  reysyd  as 
many  men  as  he  kowd  mak  in  barneys  to  have  holp  Gornay  ; 
but  when  Heydon  sye  [saw]  that  we  delt  so  corteysly  as  we 
ded  he  withdrew  hys  men  and  mad  hem  to  go  hom  a  yen,  not- 
withstandyng  they  wer  redy,  and  ned  had  be.  And  also  my 
Lord  of  Norffolks  men  wyll  be  with  hym  ayenst  me  I  wet  well 
as  yet,  tyl  bettyr  pesse  be. 

Item,  as  for  myn  ownkyll  William,  I  have  spook  with 
hym,  and  he  seyth  that  he  wyll  make  a  byll  in  all  hast  of  iche 
percelle  be  twyxt  yow  and  send  yow  word  in  wryghtyng  how 
that  he  wooll  dyell  with  yow  ;  but  I  can  not  se  that  he  besyth 
hym  abowght  it,  notwithstandyng  I  calle  upon  hym  dayly  for 
it.     As  for  mony,  I  can  none  get,  neyther  at  Snaylewell  nor  at 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  What  is  here  said  of  the  attempt  of  Gurney  to 
collect  the  rents  at  Saxthorpe,  seems  to  show  that  this  letter  is  of  the  same  year  as 
No.  796.  Also  the  mention  of  Maryot's  annuity  and  the  green  wax  agrees  very  well 
with  the  previous  allusion  to  these  matters  in  No.  797. 


EDWARD  IV 

Sporle  tyll  mydsomer,  thow  I  wold  dryve  all  the  catell  they  1472 
have.  I  was  bond  to  the  shrevys  for  gren  wax^  and  for  a  may  14 
fyeri  facias  that  is  awardyd  owt  of  yowr  lond,  wyche  drawyth 
in  alle  bettyr  than  v.  mark,  and  I  am  fayn  to  borow  the  mony 
to  pay  it  by  that  Lord  I  beleve  on,  for  I  cowd  not  gadyr  a  nobyll 
of  areragys  syn  I  was  with  yow  at  London  of  alle  the  lyve- 
lod  ye  have.  As  for  John  Maryot,  he  is  payid  of  hys  anuyte 
in  to  a  nobyll  or  xs.  at  the  most,  but  as  for  all  hys  dettors 
I  can  not  pay  hem  tyll  I  can  gadyr  more  mony,  so  God  help  me. 
I  pray  yow  send  a  byll  to  John  Pampyng  that  he  may  ryed 
with  me  ovyr  all  your  lyvelood,  and  tak  a  clere  reknyng  what 
is  owyng  and  what  that  I  have  receyvyd,  that  ye  may  have  a 
cler  reknyng  of  all  that  ye  owe  in  thys  contre,  and  what  your 
tenauntes  owe  yow.  Item,  I  pray  yow  send  me  word  as 
hasty ly  as  ye  can,  how  the  world  goethe.  No  more,  but 
God  lant  yow  lansmann,^  and  rather  then  to  stand  in  dowght, 
remembyr  what  peyn  it  is  a  man  to  loese  lyberte.  The  Flet 
is  a  fayir  preson,  but  ye  had  but  smale  lyberte  ther  in,^  for  ye 
must  nedys  aper  when  ye  wer  callyd.  Item,  I  have  fownd 
Jamys  Greshamys  oblygacyon.  Item,  he  comyth  to  London- 
ward  thys  day. 

Wretyn  the  xiiij.  day  of  Maye.  J.  P. 


802 
JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON^ 

RYGHT  worchefull  syr,  I  recomande  me  to  yow,  sertyfy-    may  25 
ing  yow  that  I  was  purposyd  to  have  com  to  London 
to  have  made  my  pese  with  my  Lady  of  Norffolk, 
but  I  undyrstand  she  is  not  in  London  ;  notwithstandyng  that 

1  See  p.  134,  Note  2. 

^  So  in  MS.     What  does  this  mean  ?     Compare  similar  expression  at  p.  133. 

^  I  have  found  no  other  mention  of  Sir  John  Paston  having  been  imprisoned  in 
the  Fleet. 

*  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  seems  to  have  been  written  in  1472, 
when,  as  before  observed,  the  Pastons  were  endeavouring  to  make  peace  with  the 
Duke  of  Norfolk  by  means  of  the  Duchess.  The  date  is  confirmed  by  the  reference 
to  James  Gresham's  obligation  at  the  end.  Compare  last  No.  There  is  no  address 
on  the  back. 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1472  IS  no  cause  of  myn  abydyng  at  horn,  but  thys  is  the  cause,  so 
MAY  25  God  help  me, — I  can  get  no  mony,  neythyr  of  your  lyvelod 
ner  of  myn,  to  pay  for  my  costes,  nor  for  to  ease  yow  with  at 
my  comyng.  Notwithstandyng  I  am  promysyd  som  at  Snayle- 
well,  and  if  so  be  that  John  can  take  eny  ther,  he  shall  bryng 
it  yow  with  this  bylle.  I  send  yow  here  ij,  of  my  reknynges 
that  I  have  receyved  and  payd  syn  I  delt  with  yowr  lyvelod, 
and  by  thes  ij.  and  by  that  reknyng  that  I  sent  yow  to  Lon- 
don ye  may  know  what  is  receyved  by  me,  and  what  I  have 
payid  ;  and  howgh  and  when  so  evyr  ye  wyll  let  your  ten- 
auntes  and  fermours  at  alle  plasys  be  examynd,  ye  shalle  fynd 
it  non  othyr  wyse.  So  God  help  me,  as  your  lyvelod  is  payid, 
it  cannot  paye  your  dettes  in  thys  contre  ;  for  it  drawyth  up 
on  a  x//.  that  ye  owe  yet  in  thys  contre,  besyd  the  xii//.  to 
Dawbney ;  and  with  in  thes  vij.  dayis  I  shall  send  yow  a  clere 
byll  what  ye  owe,  for  ther  are  axyid  many  thynges  that  I 
knewe  not  of  when  I  was  with  yow. 

Also  I  enswyr  yow  by  my  trowthe  I  saw  my  modyr  nevyr 
sorer  mevyd  with  no  mater  in  hyr  lyve  then  she  was  when  she 
red  the  byll  that  ye  gave  me  warnyng  in  that  Perker  had 
atainyd  an  axyon  ayenst  yow  and  me,  for  she  supposyth  veryly 
that  it  is  doon  by  myn  oncyll  William  meanys,  to  mak  yow  to 
sell  your  lond.  But  thys  she  comandyd  me  for  to  send  yow 
word,  that  and  ye  sell  eny  lond,  but  paye  your  dettes  with 
syche  good  as  my  Lord  Archebyshopp  owyth  yow,  and  eny 
law  in  Inglond  can  put  fro  yow  eny  of  hyr  lond,  she  sweryth 
by  that  feyth  that  she  owyth  to  God  she  wyll  put  fro  yow 
dobyll  as  myche  lond  as  ye  selle.  And  therfor  I  wold  avyse 
yow,  calle  sharply  upon  my  Lord,  the  Archebyshop,  for  ye  ar 
not  bond  to  undo  your  sylf  for  hym. 

Item,  I  pray  yow  se  that  I  tak  no  hurt  by  Parker,  As 
for  myn  oncyll  W.,  I  can  not  mak  hym  to  send  you  the  byll 
of  syche  stuff  as  he  hathe  of  yowrs.  He  seyth  he  woU,  but  he 
comyth  no  of  with  it.^  He  and  I  ar  fowly  fallyn  owght  thys 
same  day  for  a  mater  betwyx  Lovell  and  Johne  Wallsam  and 
hyr  sustyr.  Lovell  hathe  bowt  Jone  Walshamys  part  of  hyr 
lyvelod,  and  maryd  hyr  to  a  knave,  and  myn  oncyll  W.  hathe 

'  So  in  MS, 
140 


EDWARD  IV 

oft  spok  with  my  modyr  and  me  for  to  delyver  Jone  Wals-  1472 
hamys  evydence  to  Lovell,  whyche  I  have  in  kepyng  ;  and  be  may  25 
cause  I  wyll  not  delyver  Lovell  the  evydence  therfor  we  fyll 
owt,  in  so  myche  that  he  seyth  he  wyll  stryppe  me  fro  the 
maner  of  Sweynsthorpe.  Wherfor  I  pray  yow  in  eny  wyse 
send  me  by  John  Mylsend  a  copye  of  the  deed  that  I  sent  yow 
to  London.  Ther  is  in  the  same  deed  Gresham  and  Snayle- 
well,  and  Sporle  and  Sweynsthorpe,  alle  to  gedyr  I  trow.  And 
I  prey  yow  let  the  date  and  the  feofFeys  namys,  and  alle  be  set 
in.  And  I  trust  to  God  to  mak  yt  so  sewyr  that  he  shall  do 
me  lytyll  harm.  Gefrey  Spyrlyng  callyth  oft  up  on  me  to 
undyrstand  how  ye  wyll  delle  with  hym  for  hys  plase  in  Nor- 
wyche.  I  pray  you  send  me  woord  by  John  what  answer 
I  may  geve  hym  ;  he  delyth  alwey  ryght  frendly  with  yow. 

Item,  I  send  yow  here  wyth  Jamys  Greshamys  oblygacyon. 

Item,  I   pray  yow   send   serteyn   woorde   how  the  world 
gothe. 

Wretyn  the  xxv.  day  of  May.  J"  P- 

Endorsed — John  Paston. 


803 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  Sir  John  Paston,  Knythe,  be  thys  delyverid. 

IGRET  zow  welle,  and  send  zow  Godds  blyssyng  and  myn,  june  5 
latyng  zow  wet  that  I  spakke  with  frends  of  myn  with 
yne  thys  fewe  days  that  told  me  that  I  am  leke  to  be 
trobyld  for  Sir  John  Fastolles  goodes,  the  whyche  were  in 
zour  fadyrs  possessyon,  and  as  for  me  I  had  never  none  of 
them.     Where  fore  I  pray  zow  send  me  a  kopy  of  the  dysse- 

1  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  It  Is  evident  that  Henry  Heydon's  purchase  of 
Saxthorpe,  mentioned  In  this  letter,  must  have  been  subsequent  to  his  support  of 
Gurney  In  the  possession  of  that  manor,  as  mentioned  in  Letter  8oi.  No  doubt  the 
year  is  the  same.     The  letter  is  endorsed  by  Sir  John  '  Per  matrem.' 

141 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1472  charge  whyche  ze  have  of  my  Lord  of  Wynchester  that  ze 
JUNE  5  told  me  that  ze  had,  bothe  for  my  dyscharge  and  zowyrs  wat 
sum  ever  that  be  callyd  upon  of  eyther  of  us  here  after.  Item, 
yt  ys  told  me  that  Harry  Heydon  hat  bowthe  [bought]  of  the 
seyd  Lord  bothe  Saxthorpe  and  Tychewelle,  and  hathe  takke 
possessyon  there  in.  We  bette  the  busschysse  and  have  the 
losse  and  the  disworschuppe  and  ether  men  have  the  byrds. 
My  Lord  hathe  falsse  kownselle  and  sympylle,  that  avyseythe 
hym  thereto  ;  and  as  yt  ys  told  me,  Guton  ys  leke  to  goo  the 
same  wey  in  hast.  And  as  for  Heylysdon  and  Drayton,  I 
trow  yt  is  ther  yt  schalle  be.  Wat  schalle  falle  of  the  rem- 
naunt,  God  kowythe, — I  trow  as  evelle  or  whersse.  We  have 
the  losse  among  us.  Yt  owythe  to  be  remembyrd,  and  they 
that  be  defawty  to  have  konsyens  there  in.  And  so  mot  I 
thryve,  yt  was  told  me  but  latte  that  yt  is  seyd  in  kownselle 
of  them  that  ben  at  Caster,  that  I  am  leke  to  have  but  lytylle 
good  of  Mauteby  y^  the  Duke  of  Norfolke  have  possessyon 
stylle  in  Caster  ;  and  yf  we  lesse  that,  we  lesse  the  fayereste 
flower  of  owr  garlond.  And  ther  for  helpe  that  he  may  be 
owte  of  possessyon  there  of  in  haste  be  myn  a  vyse,  wat  so 
ever  fortune  here  after.  Item,  yt  is  seyde  here  that  my  Lord 
Archebysschoppe  is  ded  ;  and  yf  yt  be  so,  calle  up  on  hys 
sueretes  for  the  mony  that  is  owyng  to  us,  in  hast  be  myn 
avyse ;  and  at  reverens  of  God  helpe  that  I  mythe  be  dys- 
chargyd  of  the  C.  mark  that  ze  wet  of,  owder  be  that  mene  or 
sum  other,  for  yt  is  to  myche  for  me  to  here,  with  other 
charges  that  I  have  besyd,  that  I  am  to  hevy  wan  I  thynk  up 
on  yt.  As  for  your  syster  Anne,  Master  Godfrey  and  his 
wyffe  and  W.  Grey  of  Martyn,  arn  up  on  a  powntment  with 
me  and  your  brother  John,  so  that  ze  wylle  a  gre  there  to  and 
be  her  good  brother ;  sche  schalle  have  to  joyntor  hys  modyrs 
lyvelod  after  the  dyssese  of  her  and  her  husbond,  and  I  to  pay 
x//.  be  zere  to  the  fynddyng  of  her  and  her  husbond  tylle  c/i., 
be  payed.  And  yf  hys  grawntsyers  lyvelod  falle  to  hym  here 
after,  he  hathe  promysed  to  amend  her  joyntyr.  Master  God- 
frey hathe  promysyd  hym  for  hys  parte  xlj.  be  zere,  and  than 
lakkythe  but  iiij.  nobyls  of  xx.  mark  be  zere,  the  wyche  they 
hope  ze  wylle  make  upe  for  zour  parte.  Wylliam  Grey  told  me 
142 


EDWARD  IV 

he  schuld  speke  with  zow  here  in  wan  he  kam  to  London  thys     1472 
terme.     God  kepe  zow.  June  5 

Wretyn  in  hast  on  Fryday  next  after  Sen  Pernelle.^ 

Be  your  modyr. 


804 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON2 

I'd  my  ryght  worchepfull  hrodyr^  Sir  John  Paston^  Knyght. 
YGHT  worchepfull  sir,  I  recomand  me  to  yow.^ 


R 


Item,  Mastyr  John  Smythe  tellyth  me  that  Sir  T. 
Lyneys  goodys  ar  not  abyll  to  paye  a  quarter  of  hys  detts 
that  be  axyd  hym  ;  wherfor  syche  money  as  is  be  left 
it  most  be  devydyd  to  every  man  a  parte  aftyr  the  quan- 
tyte,  whyche  dyvysyon  is  not  yet  mad,  but  when  it  is  mad 
he  hathe  promyseyd  me  that  your  part  shalbe  worthe  iij.  the 
best,  &c. 

Item,  as  for  J.  of  Barneys  hors,  whoso  have  leest  need  to 
hym  he  shall  cost  hym  xx.  marks,  not  a  peny  lesse. 

Ye  send  me  woord  of  the  maryage  of  my  Lady  Jane ;  one 
maryage  for  an  other  on,  Norse  and  Bedford  were  axed  in  the 
chyrche  on  Sonday  last  past.  As  for  my  syster  Anne,  my 
modyr  wyll  not  remeve  fro  W.  Yellverton  for  Bedyngfeld,  for 
she  hathe  comend  ferther  in  that  mater,  syn  ye  wer  in  this 
contre,  as  it  aperyth  in  hyr  lettyr  that  she  sendyth  yow  by 
Thyrston. 

Tydyngs  her,  my  Lady  of  Norffolk  is  with  chyld,  she 
wenyth  hyrsylf,  and  so  do  all  the  women  abowght  hyr,  inso- 
myche  she  waytys  the  qwyknyng  with  in  thes  vj.  wekys  at  the 
ferthest.     Also  W.  Gernay  wenyth  that  Heydon  is  swyr  of 

1  St.  Petronilla  the  Virgin  or  St.  Pernell.    Her  day  was  the  3  ist  May. 

2  [From  Fenn,  ii.  92.]  This  letter,  like  the  last,  is  dated  by  the  reference  to 
Gurney  and  Heydon.  The  date  is  confirmed  by  the  allusion  to  the  proposal  to  sell 
Sporle  wood. 

3  Here  follows  an  account  of  some  money  transactions,  etc. — F. 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1472    Saxthorp,  and  that  Lady  Boleyn  of  Gwton.     John  Osberne 

JUNE  5    avysythe  yow  to  take  brethe  for  your  wodsale  at  Sporle,  for  he 

hathe  cast  it,  that  it  is  woorthe  as  good  as  ix.'"'7/.     Bewar  of 

Montayn,  for  he  may  not  pay  yow  so  moche  mony  with  hys 

ease. 

I  prey  yow  recomand  me  to  Sir  John  Parre  with  all  my 
servys,  and  tell  hym  by  my  trouthe  I  longyd  never  sorer  to 
see  my  Lady  than  I  do  to  se  hys  Mastershepe ;  and  I  prey 
God  that  he  aryse  never  a  mornyng  fro  my  Lady  hys  wyff, 
with  owght  it  be  ageyn  hyr  wyll,  tyll  syche  tyme  as  he  bryng 
hyr  to  Our  Lady  of  Walsyngham. 

Also  I  prey  yow  to  recomand  me  in  my  most  humbyll 
wyse  unto  the  good  Lordshepe  of  the  most  corteys,  gentylest, 
wysest,  kyndest,  most  compenabyll,  freest,  largeest,  most 
bowntesous  knyght,  my  Lord  the  Erie  of  Arran,^  whych 
hathe  maryed  the  Kyngs  sustyr  of  Scotland.  Herto  he  is 
one  the  lyghtest,  delyverst,  best  spokyn,  fayrest  archer;  de- 
vowghtest,  most  perfyghte,  and  trewest  to  hys  lady  of  all 
the  knyghtys  that  ever  I  was  aqweyntyd  with  ;  so  wold 
God,  my  Lady  lyekyd  me  as  well  as  I  do  hys  person  and 
most  knyghtly  condycyons,  with  whom  I  prey  yow  to  be 
aqweyntyd,  as  yow  semyth  best;  he  is  lodgyd  at  the  George 
in  Lombard  Street.  He  hath  a  book  of  my  syster  Annys  of 
the  Sege  of  Thebes ;  when  he  hathe  doon  with  it,  he  promysyd 
*  to  delyver  it  yow.     I  prey  lete  Portland  bryng  the  book  horn 

with  hym.  Portland  is  loggyd  at  the  George  in  Lombard 
Street  also. 

And  thys  I  promyse  yow,  ye  schall  not  be  so  longe  ayen 
with  ought  a  byll  fro  me,  as  ye  have  ben,  thow  I  shold  wryght 
how  ofte  the  wynd  changyth,  for  I  se  be  your  wryghtyng  ye 

crosse  it. 
.  -i_ . .;_  •  -I— 

can  be  wrothe  and  ye  wyll  for  lytyll."     Wretyn  the  v.  day  of 


June.  J.  Paston. 

1  Thomas  Boyd,  Earl  of  Arran,  in  14.66,  married  Mary,  daughter  of  James  11. 
and  sister  of  James  iii.,  Kings  of  Scotland.  He  was  appointed  Regent,  but  be- 
coming xmpopular,  was  banished,  and  died  in  exile  before  1474. — F. 

2  These  two  words  are  crossed  as  here  represented,  and  over  them  is  written, 
'crosse  it.' 

144 


EDWARD  IV 


805 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTONi 

"To  my  ryght  worchepfull  hrodyr^  Sir  John  Paston,  Knyght. 

RYGHT  worchepfull  sir,  I  recomand  me  to  you,  serty-  1472 
fying  yow  that  I  have  spokyn  wyth  Mastyr  John  july  8 
Smyth  ^  for  Sir  T.  Lyndys,  and  he  hathe  shewyd  me 
your  byll  whyche  ye  axe  to  be  content  of.  Your  byll  a  lone 
drawyth  iiij.  mark  and  ode  monye,  for  ye  have  set  in  your 
byll  for  wax  a  lone  xxj.,  whyche  to  Mastyr  John  S.  imagyna- 
cyon,  and  to  all  other  ofycers  of  the  coort,  shold  not  drawe 
past  yixd.  at  hys  berying.  The  bylls  that  be  put  into  the 
coorte  of  Syr  Thomas  Lynys  dettes  drawe  xxx/z.  xviijj.  vj^/., 
and  all  the  money  that  can  be  mad  of  hys  house  and  goodes  in 
this  contrey  drawyth  but  wli.  Mastyr  J.  Smyth  wold  ye  shold 
send  hym  into  the  coort  an  inventory  of  syche  goodys  as  Syr 
T.  had  at  London  when  he  dyeid,  and  that  inventory  onys  had, 
ye  shall  have  as  comyth  to  your  part  and  more  also.  Ye  must 
send  the  serteynte  whedyr  the  wax  be  xxj.  or  xx^a'. ;  and  as  for 
the  Freers,  Master  John  wyll  not  alowe  theym  a  peny,  for  he 
seyth  wher  the  dettes  may  not  be  payeid,  set  the  beqwestes  at 
nowght.  He  is  agreid  to  pay  the  potycarye  aftyr  that  he 
have  the  inventory  fro  yow.  Rysyng  I  trowe  hathe  be  with 
yow. 

Item,  as  for  John  Maryot,  I  have  sent  to  hym  for  the  xIj. 
but  I  have  non  answer. 

Item,  I  have  spok  with  Barker,  and  he  hathe  no  money, 
nor  non  can  get  tyll  harvest,  when  he  may  dystreyn  the  cropp 
upon  the  grownd;  he  seyth  there  is  not  owyng  past  v.  mark, 
and  on  Saturday  next  comyng  he  shall  send  me  a  vewe  of  hys 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  The  references  to  the  affairs  of  the  deceased  Sir 
Thomas  Lynde,  the  Duchess  of  Norfolk's  pregnancy,  and  other  subjects  mentioned  in 
the  letter  immediately  preceding,  prove  clearly  that  this  letter  belongs  to  the  same 
year. 

2  Master  John  Smyth  was,  at  this  time,  an  officer  in  the  Bishop's  Court ;  he  be- 
came afterwards  Chancellor  of  the  Diocese  of  Norwich,  and  died  about  1491. 

VOL.  V. K  145 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1472  acompte  whyche  I  shall  send  you  as  sone  as  I  have  it.  As  for 
JULY  8  FastolfFes  v.  mark,  J.  Wyndham  hathe  be  spokyn  to  by  me 
half  a  doseyn  tymys  to  send  to  hym  for  it,  and  he  seyth  he 
hathe  doon  so. 

Item,  Sir  John  Styll  hathe  told  Jwde  when  ye  shall  have 
the  chalys  ;  ax  Jwde  of  your  crwets  allso. 

Item,  the  prowd,  pevyshe,  and  evyll  disposyd  prest  to  us 
all.  Sir  James,  seyth  that  ye  comandyd  hym  to  delyver  the 
book  of  vij.  Sagys  to  my  brodyr  Water,  and  he  hathe  it. 

Item,  I  send  you  the  serteynte  her  with  of  as  myche  as  can 
be  enqweryd  for  myn  oncyll  W.  cleym  in  Caster  ;  thase  artyclys 
that  fayle,  the  tenaunts  of  Caster  shall  enqwer  theym,  and  send 
theym  to  me  hastyly  ;  they  have  promysyd,  and  they  com,  ye 
shall  have  theym  sent  yow  by  the  next  messenger  that  comyth 
to  London. 

Item,  my  modyr  sendyth  you  woord  that  she  hathe  neyther 
Master  Robard  Popyes  oblygacyon  nor  the  Byshopys.^ 

Item,  my  modyr  wold  ye  shold  in  all  haste  gete  hyr  aqwet- 
ance  of  the  Byshop  ^  of  Wynchester  for  Sir  John  Fastolffes 
goodes  ;  she  preyid  you  to  make  it  swyr  by  the  avyse  of  your 
consayll,  and  she  wyll  pay  for  the  costes. 

Item,  she  preyith  you  to  spek  to  the  seyd  Byshop  for  to 
get  Master  Clement  Felmyngham  the  viij.  mark  be  yer  dwryng 
hys  lyffe  that  Sir  J.  Fastolff  be  set  hym  ;  she  preyid  you  to  get 
hym  an  asygnement  for  it  to  som  maner  in  Norffolk  or  in 
Lothynglond. 

Item,  she  wold  ye  shold  get  yow  an  other  house  to  ley  in 
your  stuff  syche  as  cam  fro  Caster.  She  thynkyth  on  of  the 
Freerys  is  a  fayir  house ;  she  purposeyth  to  go  in  to  the 
contre,  and  ther  to  sojorn  onys  ayen.^  Many  qwarellys  ar 
pyekyd  to  get  my  brodyr  E.  and  me  ought  of  hyr  howse  ;  we 
go  not  to  bed  unchedyn  lyghtly,  all  that  we  do  is  ille  doon, 
and  all  that  Sir  Jamys  and  Pekok  dothe  is  well  doon  ;  Sir 
Jamys  and  I  be  tweyn.     We  fyll  owght  be  for  my  modyr, 

^  Walter  Lyhert,  Bishop  of  Norwich,  from  1445  to  1472. 
2  William  de  Wainfleet,  Bishop  of  Winchester  from  1447  to  i486. 
^  Fenn  reads  'onys  a  yer,'  which  may  have  been  intended;  but  I  think  the  true 
reading  is  '  ayen.' 

146 


EDWARD  IV 

with  *  Thow  prowd  prest'  and  '  Thow  prowd  sqwyer,'  my  1472 
modyr  takyng  hys  part,  so  I  have  almost  beshet  the  bote,  Ju^y  8 
as  for  my  modyrs  house  ;  yet  somer  shal  be  don  or  I  get  me 
ony  mastyr.  My  modyr  proposeith  hastyly  to  take  estate  in 
all  hyr  londys,  and  upon  that  estate  to  make  hyr  wyll  of  the 
seyd  londys,  parte  to  geve  to  my  yonger  brethyrn  for  term  of 
ther  lyvys,  and  aftyr  to  remayn  to  yow,  pert  to  my  syster 
Annys,-^  maryage,  tyll  on  Qli.  be  payid,  part  for  to  make  hyr 
lie  at  Mawtby,  parte  for  a  prest  to  syng  for  hyr  and  my  fadyr, 
and  ther  ancestrys.  And  in  thys  aungyr  betwen  Sir  Jamys 
and  me,  she  hathe  promyseid  me  that  my  parte  shall  be 
nowght ;  what  your  shal  be,  I  can  not  sey.  God  sped  the 
plowghe  ;  i  feythe  ye  must  purvey  for  my  brodyr  E.  to  go 
over  with  you,  or  he  is  on  don  ;  he  wyll  bryng  xx.  noblys  in 
hys  purse.  My  modyr  wyll  nowthyr  geve  nor  lend  non  of 
you  bothe  a  peny  forward.  Purvey  a  meane  to  have  Caster 
ayen  or  ye  goo  ovyr ;  my  Lord  and  Lady  (whyche  for  serteyn 
is  gret  with  chyld),  be  wery  ther  of,  and  all  the  housold  also. 
If  ye  wyll  eny  othyr  thyn  to  be  don  in  thys  contre,  send  me 
woord,  and  I  shall  do  as  well  as  I  can  with  Godes  grace.  Who 
preserve  yow. 

Wretyn  the  viij.  day  of  Julie.  I  pray  yow  recomand  me 
to  my  Lord  of  Aran,^  Sir  John  Par,  Sir  George  Browne,  Osbern 
Berney,  R.  Hyd,  Jhoxson  my  cosyn,  hys  wyfe  Kate,  W. 
Wood,  and  all.     I  pray  brenne  thys  by[ll]  for  losyng. 

Your,  J.  P. 

806 
ABSTRACT  3 

A  paper  endorsed  'The  copy  of  the  request  to  the  Bishop  of  Winchester  I4'72(?) 
by  Sir  John  Paston,  Knight.' 

Complains  of  my  Lord  not  making  him  an  acquittance  of  4000  marks  which 
he  has  often  claimed,  etc. 

[Sir  John  Paston  is  desired  in  Letters  796  and  805  to  procure  from  the  Bishop  of 
Winchester  an  acquittance  for  Sir  John  Fastolf 's  goods,  and  this  paper  may  be  pre- 
sumed to  be  of  the  same  year.] 

1  She  afterwards  married  William  Yelverton,  Esq. 

2  See  p.  144,  Note  i.  ^  [From  ms.  Phillipps  9735,  No.  271.] 

147 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


807 


ABSTRACT! 


SEPT.   20 


1472  Norf.    and    SufF.   Deeds,    No.   63. — '  Relaxatio   Willielmi   Paston   Will. 

AUG.   12    Wainflete  et  aliis  totius  juris  in  manerio  de  Caldecots  in  Freton,  in  Akethorp, 

in  Lowestoft,  Spitlings  in  Gorleston,  tenementi  vocat'  Habland  in  Bradwell,  et 

tenementi  vocat'   Broweston  in  eadem   villa,  et   aliis   terris   infra   hundred   de 

Loddinglond  Aug.  12,  Edw.  iv.  12.' 


808 
JAMES  ARBL ASTER  TO  THE  BAILIFF  OF  MALDEN^ 

To  my  ryght  trusty  ffrend  John  Carenton, 
Bayly e  of  Maldon. 

RYGHT  trusty  frend,  I  comand  me  to  yow,  preying  yow 
to  call  to  your  mynd  that,  lyek  as  ye  and  I  comonyd 
of,  it  were  necessary  for  my  Lady  and  you  all,  hyr 
servaunts  and  tenaunts,  to  have  thys  Parlement  as  for  one  of 
the  burgeys  of  the  towne  of  Maldon,  syche  a  man  of  worchep 
and  of  wytt  as  wer  towardys  my  seyd  Lady  ;  and  also  syche 
on  as  is  in  favor  of  the  Kyng  and  of  the  Lords  of  hys  consayll 
nyghe  abought  hys  persone.  Sertyfying  yow,  that  my  seid 
Lady  for  hyr  parte,  and  syche  as  be  of  hyr  consayll  be  most 
agreeabyll,  that  bothe  ye,  and  all  syche  as  be  hyr  fermors  and 
tenauntys,  and  wellwyllers,  shold  geve  your  voyse  to  a  wor- 
chepfull  knyght,  and  one  of  my  Ladys  consayll.  Sir  John 
Paston,  whyche  standys  gretly  in  favore  with  my  Lord 
Chamberleyn  ;  and  what  my  seyd  Lord  Chamberleyn  may  do 
with  the  Kyng  and  with  all  the  Lordys  of  Inglond,  I  trowe  it 
be  not  unknowyn  to  you  most  of  eny  on  man  alyve.  Where- 
for,  by  the  meenys  of  the  seyd  Sir  John  Paston  to  my  seyd 

^  [From  MS.  Index  in  Magd.  Coll.,  Oxford.] 

2  [From  Fenn,  ii.  98.]     The  date  of  this  letter  is  ascertained  by  the  reference 
made  to  it  in  that  which  immediately  follows  it. 

148 


EDWARD  IV 

Lord  Chamberleyn,  bothe  my  Lady  and  ye  of  the  towne  147^ 
kowd  not  have  a  meeter  man  to  be  for  yow  in  the  Perlement,  ^^^'^-  ^o 
to  have  your  needys  sped  at  all  seasons.  Wherfor,  I  prey  yow 
labor  all  syche  as  be  my  Ladys  servauntts,  tenaunts,  and  well- 
wyllers,  to  geve  ther  voyseys  to  the  seyd  Sir  John  Paston,  and 
that  ye  fayle  not  to  sped  my  Ladys  intent  in  thys  mater,  as  ye 
entend  to  do  hyr  as  gret  a  plesur,  as  if  ye  gave  hyr  an  Cii. 
And  God  have  yow  in  Hys  keping. 

Wretyn  at  Fysheley,  the  xx.  day  of  Septembyr. 

J.  Arblaster. 

I  prey  yow  be  redy  with  all  the  acomptanttys  belongyng 
to  my  Lady,  at  the  ferthest  within  viij.  dayes  next  aftyr  Perdon 
Sonday,  for  then  I  shall  be  with  yow  with  Gods  Grace,  Who 
have  yow  in  keepyng. 


809 
JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  my  ryght  worchepfull  hrodyr^  Sir  John  Paston^  Knyght. 

RYGHT  worchepfull  sir,  I  recomand  me  to  yow,  letyng  sept.  21 
yow  wet  that  your  desyer  as  for  the  Knyghts  of  the 
Shyer  was  an  impossoybyl  to  be  browght  abowght ; 
ffor  my  Lord  of  Norffblk  and  my  Lord  of  Suffolk  wer  agreid 
i  mor  then  a  fortnyght  go  to  have  Sir  Robert  Wyngfeld,  and 
Sir  Rychard  Harcort,  and  that  knew  I  not  tyll  it  was  Fryday 
last  past.  I  had  sent  or  I  rod  to  Framlynham,  to  warne  as 
many  of  your  frends  to  be  at  Norwyche  as  thys  Monday,  to 
serve  your  entent  as  I  koud  ;  but  when  I  cam  to  Framlynham, 
and  knew  the  apoyntment  that  was  taken  for  the  ij.  knyghts,  I 
sent  warnyng  ayen  to  as  many  I  myght  to  tery  at  hom  ;  and 
yet  ther  cam  to  Norwyche  thys  day  as  many  as  ther  costs 
dreave  to  ixj.  \d.  ob.,  payid  and  reknyd  by  Pekok  and  R. 
Capron,  and  yet  they  dyd  but  brak  ther  fest  and  depertyd. 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  io2.] 

149 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


1472 

SEPT.  2  I 


And  1  thankyd  hem  In  your  name,  and  told  them  that  ye  wold 
have  noo  voyse  as  thys  day,  for  ye  supposyd  not  to  be  in 
Inglond  when  the  Perlement  shold  be,  and  so  they  cam  not  at 
the  sherhous  [shire-house]  ;  for  if  they  had,  it  was  thought  by 
syche  as  be  your  frends  here,  that  your  adversarys  wold  have 
reportyd  that  ye  had  mad  labor  to  have  ben  one,  and  that  ye 
koud  not  bryng  your  purpose  abowght. 

I  sent  to  Yermowthe,  and  they  have  promysyd  also  to 
Doctor  Aleyn  and  John  Russe  to  be  mor  then  iij.  wekys 
goo. 

Jamys  Arblaster  hathe  wretyn  a  lettyr  to  the  Bayle  of 
Maldon,  in  Essex,  to  have  yow  a  bergeys  ther ;  howe  Jwde 
shall  sped,  let  hym  tell  yow,  when  ye  spek  to  gedyr. 

Syr,  I  have  ben  twyis  at  Framlyngham  sythe  your  departyng, 
but  now,  the  last  time  the  consayll  was  ther,  I  sye  [saw]  yow 
lettyr  whyche  was  bettyr  then  well  endyghtyd.  R.  C.^  was 
not  at  Framlyngham  when  the  consayll  was  ther,  but  I  took 
myn  owne  avyse,  and  delyvered  it  to  the  consayll  with  a  pro- 
pocysion  ther  with,  as  well  as  I  kowd  spek  it,  and  my  wordys 
wer  well  takyn,  but  your  lett[yr]  a  thousand  fold  bettyr. 
When  they  had  red  it,  they  shewd  it  to  my  Lady.^  Aftyr 
that  my  Lady  had  sen  it,  I  spok  with  my  Lady  offryng  to  my 
Lord  and  her  your  servyse,  and  besyd  that,  ye  to  do  my  Lord 
a  plesur  ^  and  hyr  a  bettyr,  so  as  ye  myght  depert  wyth  ought 
eny  some  specyfyid.  She  wold  not  tell  in  that  mater,  but 
remyttyd  me  ayen  to  the  consayll,  for  she  seyd,  and  she  speke 
in  it,  tyll  my  Lord  and  the  consayll  wer  agreed,  they  wold  ley 
the  wyght  [^lame]  of  all  the  mater  on  hyr,  whyche  shold  be 
reportyd  to  hyr  shame  ;  but  thys  she  promyseid  to  be  helpyng, 
so  it  wer  fyrst  mevyd  by  the  consayll.  Then  1  went  to  the 
consayll,  and  offyrd  befor  them  your  servyse  to  my  Lord,  and 
to  do  hym  a  plesure,  for  the  haveing  ayen  of  your  place  and 
londys  in  Caster,  xl//.  not  spekyng  of  your  stuff  nor  thyng 
ellys.  So  they  answerd  me  your  offyr  was  more  then  reson- 
abyll ;  and  if  the  mater  wer  thers,  they  seyd,  they  wyst  what 
conscyence  wold  dryve  hem  to.     They  seyd  they  wold  meve 


1  Richard  Calle. 

2  Elizabeth,  Duchess  of  Norfolk. 

150 


*  Make  him  a  present. — F. 


EDWARD  IV 

my  Lord  with  it,  and  so  they  dyd,  but  then  the  tempest  aros,  H?^ 
and  he  gave  hem  syche  an  answer  that  non  of  hem  all  wold  tell  ^ept.  21 
it  me  ;  but  when  I  axid  an  answer  of  them,  they  seyd,  and  [z/] 
som  Lordys  or  gretter  men  mevyd  my  Lord  with  it,  the  mater 
wer  your  (kepe  consaile),  and  with  thys  answer  I  depertyd. 
But  Syr  W.  Brandon,  Sothewell,  Tymperley,  Herry  Went- 
worthe,  W.  Gornay,  and  all  other  of  consayll,  undyrstand  that 
ye  have  wronge,  insomyche  that  they  mevyd  me  that  ye  shold 
take  a  recompence  of  other  lond  to  the  valew  ;  but  they  wold 
not  avowe  the  offyr,  for  I  anserd  hem  that  if  they  had  ryght 
they  wold  have  ofred  no  recompence.  Dyscovyr  not  thys,  but 
in  my  reason,  and  [i.e.  if]  my  Lord  Chamberleyn  ^  wold  send 
my  Lady  a  letter  with  some  privy  tokyn  betwyx  theym,  and 
allso  to  meve  my  Lord  of  Norffolk  when  he  comyth  to  the 
Parlement,  serteynly  Caster  is  yours. 

If  ye  mysse  to  be  burgeys  of  Maldon,  and  my  Lord 
Chamberleyn  wyll,  ye  may  be  in  a  nother  plase  ;  ther  be  a 
doseyn  townys  in  Inglond  that  chesse  no  bergeys,  whyche 
ought  to  do,  and  ye  may  be  set  in  for  one  of  those  townys, 
and  ye  be  frendyd.  Also  in  no  wyse  forget  not  in  all  hast  to 
get  some  goodly  ryng,  pryse  of  xxj-.,  or  som  praty  flowyr  of 
the  same  pryse,  and  not  undyr,  to  geve  to  Jane  Rodon,  for  she 
hathe  ben  the  most  specyall  laborer  in  your  mater,  and  hathe 
promysyd  hyr  good  wyll  foorthe,  and  she  doeth  all  with  hyr 
mastresse.  And  my  Lord  Chamberleyn  wyll,  he  may  cause 
my  Lord  of  Norffolk  to  com  up  soner  to  the  Parlement  then 
he  shold  do,  and  then  he  may  apoynt  with  hym  for  yow,  Or  the 
ferm  corn^  be  gadryd.  I  profyrd  but  xl//,,  and  if  my  Lord 
Chamberleyn  profyr  my  Lady  the  remenaunt,  I  can  thynk  it 
shall  be  taken.  My  Lady  must  have  somwhat  to  bye  hyr 
kovercheff^  besyd  my  Lord.  A  soper  that  I  payd  for,  wher 
all  the  consayll  was  at  Framlyngham,  ijs.  \\]d.,  and  my  costs  at 
Framlyngham  twyis  lying  ther  by  viii.  dayis,  with  ix^.  \d.  ob., 
for  costs  of  the  contre  at  Norwyche  drawyth  abowght  xxj.,  I 
trowe  more  :  by  our  Lady,  i  it  be  lesse,  stand  to  your  harmys, 
and  sic  remanet  yH.  xiijj.  iii^. 

1  William,  Lord  Hastings.  2  Com  paid  in  part  of  rent. — F. 

3  A  head-dress,  or  handkerchief. — F. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1472  I  axe  no  more  gods  of  you  for  all  the  servyse  that  I  shall 

SEPT.  21  do  yow  whyll  the  world  standyth,  but  a  gosshawke/  if  Qny  of 
my  Lord  Chamberleyns  men  or  yours  goo  to  Kaleys,  or  if  eny 
be  to  get  in  London  ;  that  is,  a  mewyd  hawk,  for  she  may 
make  yow  sporte  when  ye  com  into  Inglond  a  doseyn  yer  hens, 
and  to  call  upon  yow  owyrly,  nyghtly,  dayly,  dyner,  soper,  for 
thys  hawk.  I  pray  noo  more  but  my  brother  E.,  J.  Pampyng, 
Thyrston,  J.  Myryel,  W.  Pytte,  T.  Plattyng  Jwde,  lityll  Jak, 
Mastyr  Botoner,  and  W.  Wood  to  boote,  to  whyche  persons  I 
prey  yow  to  comand  me  ;  and  if  all  thes  lyst  to  spek  to  yow  of 
thys  mater  when  Sir  George  Browne,  W.  Knyvett,  R.  Hyd,  or 
eny  folk  of  worchepp  and  of  my  aqweyntanse  be  in  your  com- 
peny,  so  that  they  may  heipe  forthe,  for  all  is  lytyll  i  nowe,  and 
ye  be  not  very  well  wyllyng,  I  shall  so  pervey  for  hem,  and  ever 
ye  com  to  Norwyche,  and  they  with  yow,  that  they  shall  have 
as  deynte  vytayll  and  as  gret  plente  therof  for  id.  as  they  shall 
have  of  the  tresorer  of  Caleys  for  xvd.,  and  ye,  peraventure,  a 
pye  of  Wymondham  to  boote.  Nowthynk  on  me,  good  Lord, 
for  if  I  have  not  an  hawke,  I  shall  wax  fatt  for  default  of  labor, 
and  ded  for  default  of  company  by  my  trowthe.  No  more, 
but  I  pray  God  send  you  all  your  desyrs,  and  me  my  mwyd 
gosshawk  in  hast,  or  rather  then  fayle,  a  sowyr  hawke.  Ther 
is  a  grosser  dwellyng  ryght  over  ayenst  the  well  with  ij.  boketts 
a  lytyll  fro  Seynt  Elens,  hathe  evyr  hawkys  to  sell. 

Wretyn   at   Norwyche   the  xxj.  day  of  September,  Anno 
E.  iiij''  xij°- 

J.  P. 

Rather  then  faylle,  a  tarsell  provyd  wyll  occupy  the  tyme 

tyll  I  com  to  Caleys. 

^  From  the  anxiety  here  expressed  for  a  hawk,  we  may  judge  of  the  attention 
which  was  paid  to  the  diversion  of  hawking.  Latham,  in  his  book  of  Falconry,  says 
that  a  goshawk  is  the  first  and  most  esteemed  kind  of  hawk  ;  that  a  sore  hawk  is  from 
the  first  taking  of  her  from  the  eyry  till  she  hath  mewed  her  feathers.  The  tassel,  or 
tiercel,  is  the  male  of  the  goshawk,  so  called  because  it  is  a  tierce  or  third  less  than 
the  female  ;  it  appears  here,  that  a  '  grosser,'  or  dealer  in  foreign  fruits,  etc.,  sold  hawks. 
— F. 


152 


EDWARD  IV 

8io 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON^ 

A  Monsieur  J.  Paston,  Chevalier. 

RYGHT  worchepfull  sir,  I  comand  me  to  yow,  sertyfying  1472' 
yow  that  Pekok  hath  receyvyd  of  Sir  John  Stylle  by  a  °^'^-  ^^ 
bylle  all  suche  stuff  as  he  had  of  your.  And  as  for 
Kendallys  mater,  he  hathe  doon  as  myche  in  it  as  can  be  doon  : 
but  as  for  Richard  Calle,  he  hathe  gevyn  hym  a  pleyn  answer 
that  he  wyll  not  seale  to  the  lease  that  ye  have  mad  to  Ken- 
dalle,  for  he  seyth  he  wottyth  not  whether  it  be  your  wylle  or 
not,  notwithstandyng  he  sye  yore  sealle  up  on  it.  I  wold  be 
sory  to  delyver  hym  a  subpena  and  ye  sent  it  me. 

I  send  you  herwith  the  endenture  betwyx  yow  and  Towne- 
send.  My  modyr  hathe  herd  of  that  mater  by  the  reporte  of 
old  Wayte,  whyche  rennyth  on  it  with  opyn  mowthe  in  hys 
werst  wyse.  My  modyr  wepyth  and  takyth  on  mervaylously, 
for  she  seythe  she  wotyth  well  it  shall  never  be  pledgyd  ought ; 
wherfor  she  seythe  that  she  wyll  purvey  for  hyr  lond  that  ye 
shall  none  selle  of  it,  for  she  thynkys  ye  wold  and  it  cam  to 
yowr  hand.  As  for  hyr  wyll  and  all  syche  maters  as  wer  in 
hand  at  your  last  being  here,  they  thynk  that  it  shall  not  lye  in 
all  oure  porys  to  let  it  in  on  poynt. 

Sir  Jamys  is  evyr  choppyng  at  me,  when  my  modyr  is 
present,  with  syche  wordys  as  he  thynkys  wrathe  me,  and  also 
cause  my  modyr  to  be  dyspleased  with  me,  o-vyn  as  who  seyth 
he  wold  I  wyst  that  he  settyth  not  by  the  best  of  us  ;  and 
when  he  hathe  most  unfyttyng  woordys  to  me,  I  smylle  a 
lytyll  and  tell  hym  it  is  good  heryng  of  thes  old  talys.  Sir 
Jamys  is  parson  of  Stokysby  by  J.  Bernays  gyft.  I  trowe  he 
beryth  hym  the  hyeer. 

Item,  ye  must  sende  in  haste  to  W.  Barker  a  warrant  to 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  The  date  of  this  letter  is  shown  by  a  contempor- 
aneous endorsement  '  Anno  E.  iiij''  xij°,'  as  well  as  by  the  repetition  of  the  writer's 
request  for  a  goshawk. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1472  pay  John  Kook  xxx5.,  and  to  the  woman  of  Yermothe  for  otys 
OCT.  16  XX.,  and  Syr  John  Styll  hys  money,  for  they  call  dayly  up 
on  it. 

Item,  I  prey  yow  send  me  some  tydynges  howgh  the  world 
gothe,  and  whether  ye  have  sent  eny  of  your  folk  to  Caleys, 
Me  thynkes  it  costyth  yow  to  myche  money  for  to  kepe  hem 
all  in  London  at  your  charge. 

Item,  whethyr  ye  have  eny  thyng  spokyn  of  my  going  to 
Caleys. 

Item,  as  for  a  goshawk  or  a  terssell,  I  wend  to  have  had  on 
of  yours  in  kepyng  or  thys  tyme,  but  fere  \^far]  fro  iee  fer  fro 
hert ;  by  my  trowthe  I  dye  for  defawlt  of  labore.  And  it  may 
be  by  eny  meane  possybyll,  for  Godes  sake  let  on  be  sent  me 
in  all  hast  ;  for  if  it  be  not  had  bv  Halowmess,  the  seson  shall 
passe  a  non,  Memento  mei,  and  in  fey  the  ye  shall  not  loose 
on  it.  Nor  yet  myche  wyne  on  it  by  God,  Who  preserve 
yow. 

Wretyn  on  Seynt  Mychell  Day,  in  Monte  Tomba.^ 

J.P- 


811 
MARGARET  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  2 

To  John  Paston^  esqiiyer. 

i472(?)  T  GRETE  you  wele ;  letyng  you  wete  that  on  Saterday  last 
OCT.  [23]  I  past  within  nyght  the  felesshep  at  Cayster  tokyn  ought  of 
Mawtby  Cloos  xvj.  shep  of  diverse  mennes  that  were  put 
therein  to  pasture,  and  thei  ledde  them  a  wey,  so  that  every 
man  ferith  to  put  any  bestis  or  catell  therin,  to  my  grete  hurt 
and  discoragyng  of  my  fermour  that  is  now  of  late  come  theder. 
And  the  seid  evill  disposed  persones  affraid  my  seid  fermour  as 

1  The  feast  of  St.  Michael  in  Monte  Tumba  was  the  i6th  October. 

2  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  108.]  This  letter  was  clearly  written  between  the  surrender 
of  Caister  in  1469  and  its  recovery  by  Sir  John  Paston  after  the  death  of  the  Duke  of 
Norfolk  in  1476.  The  year  1472  may  be  considered  very  probable  from  what 
Margaret  Paston  writes  in  June  of  that  year  (No.  803). 


EDWARD  IV 

he  came  from  Yarmoth  this  weke  and  shotte  at  hym  that  if  he  1472  (?) 
had  not  had  a  good  hors  he  had  belike  to  have  ben  in  joparte  oct.  [23] 
of  his  lyfe  ;  so  that  be  thes  rewle  I  am  Hke  to  lese  the  profite 
of  the  lyfelode  this  yere  but  if  there  be  purveyed  the  hastyere 
remedy.  Thei  threte  so  my  men  I  dar  send  non  theder  to 
gader  it.  Thei  stufFe  and  vetayll  sore  the  place,  and  it  is 
reported  here  that  my  Lady  of  Norffolk  seth  she  wuU  not  leas 
it  in  no  wyse.  And  the  Duchesse  of  Suffolkis  men  sey  that  she 
wull  not  departe  from  Heylesdon  ner  Drayton, — she  wuld 
rather  departe  from  money  ;  but  that  shuld  not  be  wurchepfuU 
for  you  ;  for  men  shull  not  than  set  be  you.  There  for  I  will 
avyse  you  to  have  rather  the  lyvelod  than  the  money  ;  ye  shall 
mown  excuse  you  be  the  College  which  must  contynue  per- 
petuall,  and  money  is  sone  lost  and  spent  whan  that  lyfelode 
abideth.  Item,  I  lete  you  wete  that  Hastyngis  hath  entred 
ageyn  in  to  his  fee  of  the  Constabyllshep  of  the  Castell  of 
Norwich  be  the  vertu  of  his  patent  that  he  had  of  Kyng 
Harry  ;  and  I  here  sey  he  hath  it  graunted  to  hym  and  his 
heyeris.  There  was  at  his  entres  your  unkill  William  and 
other  jentilmen  dwellyng  in  Norwich.  This  was  do  be  fore 
that  ye  sent  me  the  letter  be  Pers  I  had  forgetyn  to  have  sent 
you  word  ther  of.  God  kepe  you.  Wretyn  the  Friday  next 
after  Sent  Luke. 

Be  your  moder. 


812 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 

A  Johan  Paston,  Esquyer,  soit  done. 

WORSHYPFULL    and  weell   belovyd   brother,  I  re-     1472 
comand  me  to  yow,  letyng  yow  weet  that  I  sente    ^ov.  4 
yow  a  letter  and  a  rynge  with  a  dyamond,  in  whyche 
letter  ye  myght  well  conceyve  what  I  wold  ye  scholde  do  with 
the  same  rynge,  with  menye  other  tydyngs  and  thyngs  whyche 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  112.] 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1472  I  prayed  yowe  to  have  doon  for  me,  whyche  letter  Botoner^ 
NOV.  4  had  the  beryng  off.  It  is  so  nowe  that  I  undrestond  that  he  is 
owther  deed  or  ellys  harde  eskapyd,  wheroff  I  am  ryght  hevye, 
and  am  not  serteyn  whethyr  the  seyd  lettyr  and  rynge  come  to 
yowr  handys  or  nott.  I  wolde  nott  that  letter  wer  seyn  with 
some  folkys  ;  wherffor  I  praye  yow  take  good  heede  hoghe 
that  letter  comythe  to  yowr  handys,  hooll  or  brokyn,  and  in 
especiall  I  praye  yow  gete  it,  iff  ye  have  it  nott. 

Also  I  praye  yow  feele  my  Lady  off  Norfolks  dysposicion 
to  me  wards,  and  whethyr  she  toke  any  dysplesur  at  my 
langage,  or  mokkyd,  or  dysdeyned  my  words  whyche  I  hadd 
to  hyr  at  Yarmothe,  be  twyen  the  place  wher  I  ffyrst  mett 
with  hyr  and  hyr  lodgyng,  ffor  my  Lady  Brandon  and  Syr 
William "-  also  axhyd  me  what  words  I  had  had  to  hyr  at  that 
tyme.  They  seyd  that  my  Lady  seyde  I  gaff  hyr  ther  off,^  and 
that  I  sholde  have  seyde  that  my  Lady  was  worthye  to  have  a 
Lords  soon  in  hyr  belye,  ffor  she  cowde  cheryshe  itt,  and  dele 
warlye  with  it ;  in  trowthe  owther  the  same  or  words  moche 
lyke  I  had  to  hyr,  whyche  wordys  I  ment  as  I  seyde.  They 
seye  to  that  I  seyde  she  toke  hyr  ease.  Also  I  scholde  have 
seyde  that  my  Ladye  was  off  satur  \jtature\  goode,  and  had 
sydes  longe  and  large,  so  that  I  was  in  goode  hope  she  sholde 
ber  a  fayr  chylde  ;  he  was  nott  lacyd  nor  bracyd  ine  to  hys 
peyn,  but  that  she  left  hym  rome  to  pleye  hym  in.  And  they 
seye  that  I  seyde  my  Lady  was  large  and  grete,  and  that  itt 
sholde  have  rome  inow  to  goo  owt  att ;  and  thus  why  ther  my 
Lady  mokk  me,  or  theye,  I  woote  nott.  I  mente  weell  by  my 
trowthe  to  hyr,  and  to  that  she  is  with,  as  any  he  that  owythe 
heer  best  wyll  in  Ingelond. 

Iff  ye  can  by  any  meed  weete  whethyr  my  Ladye  take  it 
to  dysplesur  or  nowt,  or  whether  she  thynke  I  mokkyd  hyr, 
or  iff  she  wyght  it  but  lewdnesse  off  my  selffe,  I   pray  yow 

1  William  Botoner,  otherwise  Worcester.  He  certainly  was  alive  some  years  later 
than  this. 

2  Sir  William  Brandon,  Knight,  was  standard-bearer  to  the  Earl  of  Richmond,  and 
was  slain  in  Bosworth  Field  by  Richard  in.  He  was  father  to  Charles  Brandon, 
Duke  of  Suffolk.— F. 

3  Meaning  apparently,  as  Fenn  suggests,  'I  paid  her  off,  or  treated  her  with 
unceremonious  language.' 

156 


EDWARD  IV 

sende  me  worde  ;  fFor  I  weet  nott  whethyr  I  maye  trust  thys     1472 
Lady  Brandon  or  nott.  '^"v-  4 

Item,  as  fFor  tydyngs  nowe,  heer  be  but  ffewe,  safF  that,  as 
I  undrestande,  imbassators  off  Bretayne  shall  come  to  London 
to  morawe,  and  men  seye  that  the  Lorde  Ryverse  ^  and  Scayls, 
shall  hastelye  come  home  ;  and  men  seye  that  ther  is  many  off 
the  sowders  that  went  to  hym  into  Bretayne  been  dede  off  the 
fflyxe,  and  other  ipedemye  [_epidemics~\^  and  that  the  remenant 
sholde  come  hom  with  the  Lorde  Skalys.  And  som  seye  that 
thees  imbassators  come  ffor  moor  men.  And  thys  daye  rennyth 
a  tale  that  the  Duke  of  Bretayne  ^  sholde  be  ded.  I  beleeff 
it  not. 

I  sent  yow  worde  off  an  hawke  ;  I  herde  nott  from  yow 
syns  ;   I  do  and  shall  doo  that  is  possible  in  suche  a  neede. 

Also  I  canne  nott  undrestand  that  my  Lord  off  Norffolk 
shall  come  heer  thys  tyme  ;  wherffor  I  am  in  a  greet  agonye 
howe  is  best  ffor  me  to  sue  to  hym  ffor  rehavyng  off  my  place  ; 
that  goode  Lorde  weet  full  lytell  how  moche  harme  he  doothe 
me,  and  how  lytell  goode  or  worshyp  it  dothe  hym.  I  praye 
yow  sende  me  yowr  advyce.  No  moor  to  yow  at  thys  tyme, 
but  God  have  yow  in  Hys  kepyng. 

Wretyn  at  London  the  iiij.  daye  off  Novembre,  anno  E. 
iiij"  xij°.  I  feer  me  that  idelnesse  ledyth  yowr  reyne ;  I  praye 
yow  rather  remembre  Sir  Hughe  Levernoys  tyll  yowr  hauke 
come.  John  Paston,  K. 

1  Anthony  Woodville,  Earl  Rivers,  etc.,  went  to  endeavour  to  obtain  the  posses- 
sion of  the  Earls  of  Pembroke  and  Richmond,  who  were  detained  as  prisoners  by  the 
Duke  of  Brittany. — F. 

-  Francis  ii.,  the  last  Duke  of  Brittany,  was  born  in  1435,  and  died  in  1488. — F. 


^S7 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

813 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

A  John  Paston,  Esquyer^  soyt  done. 

1472     T~\  ROTHER,  I  comend  me  to  yow,  letyng  yow  weet,  &c.^ 

NOV.  8      1"^  As  for  the  delyverance  off  the  rynge  to  Mestresse 

^-"^     Jane  Rothone,  I  dowt  nott  but  it  shall  be  doon  in  the 

best  wyse,  so  that  ye  shall  geet  me  a  thank  moor  than  the 

rynge  and  I  ar  worthe  or  deserve. 

And  wheer  ye  goo  to  my  Laydy  off  Norffolk,  and  wyll  be 
theer  att  the  takyng  off  hyr  chambre,  I  praye  God  spede  yow, 
and  our  Ladye  hyr,  to  hyr  plesur,  with  as  easye  labor  to  over- 
kome  that  she  is  abowt,  as  evyr  had  any  lady  or  gentyllwoman, 
saff  our  Lady  heer  selffe,  and  soo  I  hope  she  shall  to  hyr  greet 
joye,  and  all  owres  ;  and  I  prey  God  it  maye  be  lyke  hyr  in 
worship,  wytt,  gentylnesse,  and  every  thynge  excepte  the  verry 
verry  thynge.^ 

No  moor  to  yow  at  [this]  thyme,  but  I  woll  sleepe  an  howr 
the  lenger  to-morrow  by  cawse  I  wrote  so  longe  and  late  to 
nyght. 

Wretyn  betwen  the  viij.  and  the  jx.  daye  off  Novembre 
anno  xij°  E.  iiij".  J.  P.,  K. 

^  [From  Fenn,  ii.  ii8.] 

2  The  first  part  of  this  letter  treats  of  some  money  transactions  of  no  consequence, 
etc. — F. 

'  Fenn,  in  his  modernised  text,  makes  this  'except  the  sex.' 


158 


EDWARD  IV 


814 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  John  Fasten,  Esquyer. 

IGRETE  you  wele  and  send  you  Goddes  blyssyng  and  1472 
myn,  letyng  you  wete  that  I  have  sent  to  Doctor  Aleyn  nov.  19 
wyffe  to  have  spoke  with  her  as  ye  desired  me,  and  she 
was  so  syke  that  she  myght  not  comyn  ;  but  she  sent  her 
broder  elaw  to  me,  and  I  lete  hym  wete  the  cause  why  that  I 
wuld  have  spoke  with  her  as  ye  desired  me.  And  he  told  me 
that  he  shuld  have  brought  me  wrytyng  this  day  from  her  be 
vij.  of  the  belle,  how  that  she  wull  that  ye  shuld  have  labored 
or  do  for  her  ;  but  he  came  no  mor  at  me.  Nevertherlesse  she 
sent  me  an  nother  massenger,  and  lete  me  wete  ^  that  her 
husband  had  sent  her  the  same  nyght  from  London  that  she 
shuld  come  up  as  fast  as  she  cowde  to  labor  to  the  Lordes 
there  in  her  propre  person  ;  wherfor  she  myght  geve  me  non 
answer,  ner  send  you  word  how  that  ye  shuld  do  till  [that] 
she  had  spokyn  with  her  husband,  or  had  other  writyng  from 
hym. 

Therfore  I  thynk  t[hat  s]he  hath  other  councell  that 
avyseth  her  to  labour  to  other  than  to  you.  I  wuld  not  that 
[you  be]  to  besy  in  no  such  maters  [ty]ll  the  werd  [world'] 
were  mor  suer,  and  in  any  wyse  that  w[hile  my]  Lord  the 
Chaunceller  is  in  [occu]pation,  labore  to  have  an  ende  of  your 
grete  materes  and  .  .  .  macion,  and  abide  not  up  [on] 
trost  of  an  nother  seson,  for  so  shall  ye  be  disseyved  a[s  ye 
hav]e  ben  befor  this  tyme.  I  have  understand  sith  that  ye 
departed  that  ther  ....  mad  to  subplant  you  ;  ther- 
fore,  for  Goddes  sake,  in  this  onstabill  werd  [worla]  labore 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  From  the  time  of  year  and  other  circumstances, 
it  seems  probable  that  the  election  here  referred  to  was  that  of  the  year  1472. 
A  circumstance  which  confirms  this  date  will  be  found  noticed  in  a  footnote. 
The  original  letter  is  mutilated  in  the  middle  by  the  decay  of  the  paper,  in  more 
than  one  place. 

2  The  words  after  '  Neverthelesse '  originally  stood  '  her  seid  brother-in-law  told 
me  that  tyme  that  he  was  with  me,'  but  are  crossed  out. 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1472  er[nestly  yourj  maters  that  thei  may  have  summe  good  con- 
Nov.  19  elusion,  and  that  shall  make  y[our  enemies]  fere  you,  and  elles 
thei  shall  .  .  kepe  you  low  and  in  trobill.  And  if  any 
mater  ....  be  Act  of  Parlement  and  pro  .... 
lete  your  bill  be  mad  redy,  and  lese  not  your  [majteres  for 
other  mennes  ;  for  if  your  elmyse  \_enemies^  may  profight  now 
at  this  tyme,  ye  shall  be  [in]  wers  case  than  ever  ye  were 
befor.  All  the  cou[ntry]  wenyth  that  ye  shuld  now  over- 
comyn  all  your  trobill,  which  if  ye  do  not  ye  shall  fall  o[ug]ht 
of  conceyte.  I  write  as  well  this  to  your  brother  as  to  you  ; 
therfore  lete  no  difFaught  be  in  you  nowther. 

Item,  it  was  lete  me  to  wete  syth  ye  departed  of  such  as 
were  your  frendes  and  were  conversaunte  with  the  toder  parte 
that  ther  was  mad  labor  and  like  to  be  concluded,  that  the 
eleccion  of  the  knyghtes  of  the  shire  shuld  be  chaunged,  and 
new  certificat  mad  and  John  Jenney  set  there  in  ;  ther  for  do 
your  devoir  to  understond  the  trought  as  sone  as  ye  can,  for 
the  seid  Jenney  this  day  rideth  up  to  London  ward,  and  I 
suppo[se  be]cause  of  the  same.  I  pray  you  remembre  your 
brother  to  send  me  the  evydence  and  remembrance  towchyng 
the  maner  of  Gresham,  which  that  I  wrote  to  hym  be  Juddy, 
and  send  them  be  sum  suer  man. 

Item,  take  hede  to  the  labour  of  your  unkyll,  for  he  hath 
had  right  straunge  langage  of  your  brother  of  late  to  right 
wurchepfuU  persones ;  therfor  werk  wysely  and  bewar  wham 
that  ye  lete  know  your  councell. 

Item,  remembre  Lomnors  mater  as  ye  may  do  therin,  and 
send  me  werd  in  hast.  Mayster  Roos  shall  be  at  London  the 
next  weke  ;  therfore  ye  shall  not  nede  to  make  my  Lord  to 
write,  but  whan  that  he  comyth,  if  my  Lord  can  make  hym  to 
put  it  in  indifferent  and  wurchepfuU  men,  than  that  it  pleasith 
my  Lord  to  write  to  them  that  thei  shuld  take  it  upon  them  to 
set  a  rewle  therin,  with  ought  better  advyse,  me  semyth  it  wer 
wele  do.  The  Holy  Gost  be  your  gyde  and  send  yow  good 
spede  and  councell,  and  delivere  you  ought  of  all  trobill  and 
disseas  to  his  pleser. 

Wretyn  the  Thursday  next  be  for  Sent  Kateryn,^  in  hast. 

1  St.  Catherine's  Day  is  the  25th  of  November. 
160 


EDWARD  IV 

Recomaund   me   to   my  Mastres   Kateryn,   and   send   me     1472 
werd  how  ye  don,  &c.  ^o^-  ^9 

Be  your  Moder. 

Do  my  Lord^  on  Sonday  send  for  the  sherefFes  debute 
[deputy^  to  wete  how  thei  be  disposid  for  certificate  of  the 
knyghtes,  and  I  shall  understand  if  thei  be  eschaunged  ;  for 
on  Sonday  at  nyght,  or  on  Monday,  it  shall  be  put  in,  and 
[if  i]t  is  put  in,  ther  is  no  remedy.  Geney  seth  he  wull 
attempt  the  law  therin. 


815 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON^ 

To  Mestresse  Margret  Paston,  or  to  John  Paston^  Esquier^ 
or  to  Roose  dwyllyng  affor  ther  gate,  to  delyver  to  them. 

PLEASE  it  yow  to  weete  that  I  have  opteyned  letterys  nov.  22 
from  the  Kynge  to  my  Lorde  off  Norffolke,  to  my 
Lady  of  Norffolk,  and  to  ther  concell,  whyche  letter 
to  ther  concell  is  nott  superscrybyd,  for  cawse  we  wyst  nott 
serteyn  whyche  of  the  councell  sholde  be  present  when  the 
massenger  cowme.  I  therffor  thynke  that  thoos  namys  most 
be  somwhatt  by  yowr  advyce ;  and  for  get  nott  Gornaye,  nor  yitt 
Brome,  iff  ye  thynke  so  best,  nor  Sowthewelle.  I  trust  to  my 
cosyn  Gornaye,  and  on  to  Brome  and  Barnard  in  cheffe  ;  and 
as  to  Bernarde,  brother,  I  praye  yow  to  take  hys  advyce,  for  1 
hope  he  is  my  welwyller,  as  ye  know,  and  iffe  he  do  me  per- 
ffyght  ease  in  thys  mater,  I  thynke  verrely  in  tyme  to  come  to 
gyff  him  xx.  scutys,  and  yit  a  goode  turne  whan  so  ever  it 
lythe  in  my  power. 

The  Kynge  hathe  specially  doon  for  me  in  thys  case,  and 

1  The  Duke  of  Norfolk.     It  will  be  seen  by  the  preceding  letter  that  John  Paston 
was  going  to  Framlingham  in  the  beginning  of  November  1472. 

2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]    In  this  letter,  as  in  the  last,  allusion  is  made  to  the 
visit  paid  by  John  Paston  to  the  Duchess  of  Norfolk  in  November  1472. 

VOL.   V. L  161 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1472     hathe  pitte  me,  and  so  have  the  Lordys,  in  ryght  greete  com- 
Nov.  22  fort,  that  iff  thys  fayle,  that  I  shalle  have  ondelayed  justyce  ; 
and  he  hathe  sente  a  man  of  worship  and  in  greet  favor  with 
hym    on   thys   massage,   whyche   hathe   nott   ofte   ben   seyne, 
whyche    gentylman    kan   well   do    hys    mastrys    massage   and 
brynge  trywe  reporte.     I  have  gevyn  hym  v//.  for  hys  costes : 
God  sende  hym  and  yow  goode  spede  in  thees  werkes.     I  feer 
thatt  he  shall  nott  speke  with  my  Lady,  for  that  she  hathe 
takyn  hyr  chambre.     Iff  she  be  my  verry  goode  Ladye,  as  she 
hathe  seyde  hertoffor  that  she  wolde  be,  I  hope  that  she  wolle 
speke  with  hym.      Neverthelesse  I  praye  yow  by  the  meanes  of 
Mestresse  Jahne  Rothen  that  [you]  ^  will  have  my  Ladye  mevyd 
for  me,  and  wher  that  herr  to  fore  I  wolde  have  departyd  with 
C.  marke  to  have  hadde  hyr  goode  helpe  and  to  be  restoryd 
to  my  place  ;  whyche  nott  acceptyd,  I  tolde  my  seyde  Lady 
that  I  feeryd  that  my  power  sholde  natt  be  ther  aftre  to  gyff 
so  large  a  plesyr,  for  at  that  tyme  I  was  in   hope  that  the 
Bysshop  of  Wynchester  sholde  have  payd  it,  thoghe  it  hadde 
drawen  a  C//.     Yet  for  as  moche  as  men  may  nott  lure  none 
hawkes  with   empty  handys,  I   wolde   yitt  agre  to  gyffe  my 
Lady  xx//.  for  an  horse  and  a  sadell,  so  that  I  be  restoryd  to 
my  place,  and  that  doone,  to  have  a  relesse  of  my  Lorde,  and 
my  gounes  and  bokes  to  be  restoryd,  iff  it  maye  bee.     Never- 
thelesse thys  mony  is  nott  yit  redy  with  me.     I  remytte  thys 
to  yovvr  dyscressyons. 

Item,  iff  it  be  soo  that  itt  be  thowte  behovefull,  I  thynke 
that  thoghe  nowther  Slyfelde,  nor  ye,  brother  John,  maye 
come  in  to  my  Ladyes  chambre,  that  my  moodre,  iff  she  weer 
at  Norwyche,  she  myght  speke  with  hyr,  for  that  she  is  a 
^ woman  and  off  worshyppe.  I  thynke  that  my  moodre  sholde 
meve  my  Lady  moche.  I  thynke  that  ther  most  be  some  body 
for  me,  havyng  auctoryte  to  conclude  for  me,  or  ellys  know- 
yng  myn  entente,  they  myght  make  delaye,  and  seye  they 
wolle  at  the  Kynges  enstance  comon  with  me  ;  never  the  lesse 
I  was  nott  ther  present.  Wherffor,  rather  than  fayle,  yff 
neede  be,  I  wolle  with  owte  any  abode,  iff  I  heer  from  yow, 
come  home  ;  and  Slyfelde  is  agreyd  to  tary  the  a  vij.  nyghte 

1   Omitted  in  MS 
162 


EDWARD  IV 

for  my  sake,  so  that  the  mater  take  effecte.     I  praye  yow  make     1472 
hym   goode   cheer,   and   iff  it   be   so   that   he   tarye,    I   most    nov.  22 
remembre  hys  costes  ;  therffor  iff  I  shall  be  sent  for,  and  he 
tery  at  Norwyche  ther  whylys,  it  wer  best  to  sette  hys  horse 
at  the  Maydes  Hedde,  and  I  shalle  content  for  ther  expences. 

Item,  ye  maye  largely  sey  on  my  behalve  for  suche  servyse 
that  I  sholde  do  to  my  Lorde  and  Lady  hereaffter,  whyche  by 
my  trowthe  I  thynke  to  doo ;  neverthelesse  to  sey  that  I  woll 
be  hys  sworyn  man,  I  was  never  yitt  Lordys  sworyn  man,  yit 
have  I  doone  goode  servyce,  and  nott  leffte  any  at  hys  most 
neede  ner  for  feer.  But  as  Gode  helpe  me,  I  thynke  my  Lady 
shalle  have  my  servyce  above  any  lady  erthely,  wheche  she 
scholde  weell  have  knowyn,  had  I  been  in  suche  case  as  I 
hadde  nott  been  alweye  the  werse  welkome ;  for  that  on  of 
my  herandes  alweye  was  undrestande  that  it  was  for  Caster, 
whyche  was  nott  acceptable,  and  I  evyr  the  werse  welkome. 

Item,  brother,  I  ame  concludyd  with  my  Lorde  for  yow, 
that  ye  shalle  be  at  Caleys  if  ye  list,  and  have  iij.  men  in  wages 
undre  yow,  wheroff  my  Lorde  seythe  that  William  Lovedaye 
most  be  on,  tyll  tyme  that  he  have  purveyed  other  rome  for 
hym.  Iff  ye  be  dysposyd  to  goo,  as  I  tolde  hym  that  ye  weer, 
yett  wer  it  nott  best  that  ye  lete  it  be  knowe  tyll  thys  mater 
be  doone,  and  then  ye  maye  acordyng  to  yowr  promyse  lete 
my  Ladye  have  knowleche  ther  off.  Never  the  lesse  my 
Lorde  shalle  be  here  with  in  xx.  dayes  or  ther  abowt ;  iff  ye 
come  thys  weye  ye  maye  speke  with  hym  ;  neverthelesse  ye 
shall  nott  lose  no  tyme,  iff  ye  weer  at  Caleys  at  thys  owr,  for 
my  Lorde  promysed  me  that  he  wolde  wryght  to  Elkenhed  the 
tresorer  at  Caleys  for  yow  by  the  next  massenger  thatt  went. 

Item,  ther  hathe  Perauntes  wyffe  wryte  to  me  that  Bernaye 
servyth  hyr  onkyndely.  He  owythe  hyr  xxxijj.  and  she  is  in 
noon  hope  that  evyr  he  will  come  ther  ageyn  ;  sende  me 
worde  iff  he  wyll.  He  shall  nott  lyf  so  weell  and  trywly  to 
geedre,  I  trowe,  but  iffe  he  goo  thyddre. 

I  hadde  comen  home,  butt  that  I  ame  nott  yitt  verrely 
purveyd  for  payment  for  my  oncle  William  the  xxvj.  daye  of 
thys  monythe,  and  he  dothe  me  harme.  He  delythe  so  on- 
curteysly  with  Towneshende,  for  he  wille  nott  yitt  paye  hym 

163 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1472    the  C.   marke,  payable  at   Halowmesse,  whyche   he   hadde   a 
NOV.  22    rnonythe  affore  ;  wherfFor  I  feer  that  Towneshende  wille  nott 
do  for  me  ageyn.     I  shall  doo  as  I  kan. 

Wretyn  on  Sondaye  next  Seynt  Clement. 

John  Paston,  K. 


816 
MARGARET  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 

To  John  Paston,  Esquyer,  be  this  delivered. 


NOV.  23  TT  GRETE  you  wele,  letyng  you  wete  that  Doctor  Aleyns 
I  wyffe  hath  be  with  me  and  desired  me  to  write  to  you  to 
desire  you  to  be  good  mayster  to  her  husband  and  to  her 
in  her  materes,  for  she  tellith  me  that  her  trost  is  full  in  you, 
and  if  she  myght  have  walked  she  shuld  have  come  to  have 
spoke  with  you  or  than  ye  departed  ;  therfor,  I  pray  you  do 
your  devoir  for  her,  for  I  conceyve  that  she  feyneth  not,  not- 
withstandyng  that  I  had  her  in  suspecion  as  I  have  wretyn  to 
you  before,  be  cause  that  she  came  not,  but  I  conceyve  now 
the  trought  and  that  sikenesse  caused  thatt  she  absent  her. 
Therfore  I  pray  you  help  her,  for,  so  God  help  me,  I  have 
right  gret  pete  on  her,  and  it  is  right  grete  almes  to  help  her, 
and  I  trow  she  wuU  put  her  most  trost  and  sewe  specialle  to 
you.  Also  I  wuld  ye  shold  desire  your  brother  to  be  good 
mayster  on  to  her,  for  I  suppose  be  that  tyme  ye  have  herd 
her  excuse  in  such  materes  as  he  shuld  be  displeased  with  her 
husband,  ye  shall  hold  you  pleased.  God  kepe  you  and  send 
you  Hes  blyssyng,  with  myn.  Wretyn  on  Sent  Clementes 
Day  at  nyght,  in  hast. 

Be  your  Moder. 

*  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]     It  is  evident  that  this  letter  was  written  in  the  same 
year  as  No.  814. 


164 


EDWARD  IV 


817 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

'To  Master  Sir  John  Paston,  Knyght. 

RYGHT  worchepfull  syr,  I  recomand  me  to  yow,  thank-  1472 
yng  yow  most  hertly  of  your  dylygence  and  cost  nov.  24 
whyche  ye  had  in  gettyng  of  the  hawk,  whyche  ye  sent 
me,  for  well  I  wot  your  labore  and  trowbyll  in  that  mater  was  as 
myche  as  thow  she  had  ben  the  best  of  the  world  ;  but,  so  God 
help  me,  as  ferforthe  as  the  most  conyng  estragers  \_falconers~\ 
that  ever  I  spak  with  can  imagyn,  she  shall  never  serve  but  to 
ley  eggys,  for  she  is  bothe  a  mwer  de  haye,  and  also  she  hathe 
ben  so  brooseid  with  cariage  of  fewle  that  she  is  as  good  as 
lame  in  boothe  hyr  leggys,  as  every  man  may  se  at  iee. 
Wherfor  all  syche  folk  as  have  seen  hyr  avyse  me  to  cast  hyr 
in  to  some  wood,  wher  as  I  wyll  have  hyr  to  eyer  [lay  eggs]  ; 
but  I  wyll  do  ther  in  as  ye  wyll,  whedyr  ye  wyll  I  send  hyr 
yow  ayen,  or  cast  hyr  in  Thorpe  wood  and  a  tarsell  with  hyr, 
for  I  weit  wher  on  is.  But  now  I  dar  no  more  put  yow  to  the 
cost  of  an  hawke,  but,  for  Codes  sake,  and  ther  be  eny  tersell 
or  good  chep  goshawk  that  myght  be  gotyn,  that  the  berer 
herof  may  have  hyr  to  bryng  me,  and  I  ensuer  yow  be  my 
trowthe  ye  shall  have  Dollys  and  Browne  bonde  to  paye  yow 
at  Kandyllmas  the  pryse  of  the  hawke.  Now,  and  ye  have 
as  many  ladyse  as  ye  wer  wont  to  have,  I  reqwere  yow  for 
hyr  sake  that  ye  best  love  of  theym  all,  onys  trowbyll  yowr 
syllf  for  me  in  thys  mater,  and  be  owght  of  my  clamor. 

Item,  as  for  the  ryng,  it  is  delyverd,  but  I  had  as  gret 
peyn  to  make  hyr  take  it  as  ever  I  had  in  syche  a  mater  ;  but 
I  have  promyseid  yow  to  be  hyr  knyght,  and  she  hathe  promy- 
seid  me  to  be  more  at  your  comandment  then  at  eny  knyghtes 
in  Inglond,  my  Lord  reservyd  ;  and  that  ye  shall  well  undyr- 

1  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  At  the  foot  of  this  letter  is  written,  in  a  different 
but  contemporary  hand,  '  A°  E.  iiij"  xij°.'  The  date  is  besides  abundantly  evident 
from  other  circumstances. 

165 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1472  stand,  if  ye  have  owght  to  do,  wherin  she  may  be  an  helper  ; 
NOV.  24  for  ther  was  never  knyght  dyd  so  myche  cost  on  hyr  as  ye  have 
doon. 

I  mervyall  that  I  her  no  woord  of  the  lettyrs  that  my 
Lord  Chamberleyn  shold  send  to  my  Lord  and  my  Lady  for 
Caster.  It  is  best  that  my  Lord  Chamberleyn  wryght  to  my 
Lady  by  som  prevy  tokyn  betwyx  theym,  and  let  a  man  of  hys 
com  with  the  lettrys.  My  Lord  Chamberleyn  may  speed  with 
my  Lady  what  maters  he  wyll,  savyng  the  gret  mater ;  and  if 
ye  inbyll  me  for  a  solysitor,  I  shal  be  a  vouster  comandment  a 
touz  jours. 

Item,  me  thynkyth  that  ye  do  evyll  that  ye  go  not  thorewgh 
with  my  Lady  of  Suffolk  for  Heylysdon  and  Drayton  ;  for  ther 
shold  growe  mony  to  you,  whyche  wold  qwyte  yow  ayenst 
R.  T.  and  all  other,  and  set  yow  befor  for  ever. 

I  prey  yow  for  your  ease,  and  all  others  to  you  ward, 
plye  thes  maters.  As  for  alle  other  thynges,  I  shall  send  yow 
an  answer,  when  I  com  to  Norwyche,  whyche  shall  be  on 
Thorsday,  with  Godes  grace.  I  have  teryd  her  at  Framlyng- 
ham  thys  sevennyght,  for  [my]  Lady  took  not  hyr  chambyr 
tyll  yersterday.      Adewe. 

Wretyn  on  Seynt  Kateryns  Evyn.  J.  P. 

^  I  sye  the  pye,  and  herd  it  spek  ;  and,  be  God,  it  is  not 
worthe  a  crowe ;  it  is  fer  wers  then  ye  wend ;  be  God,  it  wer 
shame  to  kep  it  in  a  cage. 


818 

ABSTRACT  2 

NOV.  26  '  Soutwerk  cum  membiis,'  No.  17a. — 'Literse  patentes  concessje  a  Rege  ad 

petitionem  Domini  Fundatoris  pro  ponte  fiendo  in  vico  vocato  le  Bermoseystret. 
Dat.  26  Novembris  anno  regni  Regis  Ed.  iv.  12°.' 


'  This  P.S.  is  written  on  the  back  of  the  letter. 
2  [From  MS.  Index  in  Magd.  Coll.,  Oxford.] 


166 


EDWARD  IV 


819 

JOHN  OSBERN  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTONi 

To  the  right  ivorshepfull  my  master.,  Sir  John  Pastotiy  Knyght. 
A°  xij.  E.  R.  quarti. 

Please  it  your  masterschep  to  knowe  that  Johon  Shawe  and  I  have  goten  a  14?^ 
carpenter  fro  Walsyngham  to  Sporle  to  valewe  your  wod  the  -  the  wheche  car- 
pepter  hese  costis  there  Sondaye  at  nyght  next  before  the  Assencion  off  owre 
Lord  Jesu  Cryst,  Mondaye,  Tewesdaye,  Wednesdaye,  Assencion  Daye,  Fry- 
daye  and  Saterdaye,  and  for  hese  labor  \\y.  \\\\d.  And  upon  the  syte  of  your 
seid  wode  he  hath  valewid  the  launde  wythin  the  dykes  xij.  fote  inward  fro  the 
cop  of  the  dyke  and  wythowte  at  liiijA'.  vijj.  xJ.  And  wythin  the  wode  xij. 
fote  wythin  alle  the  dykes  y'f^li.  vijj.  viij^.  the  valewe  of  the  dykes  abowte 
the  woode  fro  xij.  fote  fro  wythin  owtewardis  arn  prysid  at  x/r.  grete  chepis  the 
valew  of  the  trees  in  the  maner  and  in  the  closes  azens  the  seid  manor  toward 
Swaff  ham  xx.  marc  gret  chepe ;  there  off  be  ware  and  be  not  to  hasty,  &c., 
the  cloos  at  the  tow  .  .  .  toward  Pykenham  not  valewid  nor  not  spoken 
of,  &c.     The  summa  totall  ix'"'//.  &  xviijZf.  ijj.  viiji^. 

And  if  ze  shuld  selle  all  this  wode  togedyr  for  redy  sylver  never  lesse  in  the 
summa  paste  v.  marc,  if  ze  woll  sell  the  wode  ....  the  lawnde  wythin 
the  dykes  and  the  standardis  thoo  I  shall  wryte  aftyr  in  this  bille  for  to  stande 

in  any  wyse  less all  the  hole  sum  at  the  most  paste  x/f.  for 

who  so  ever  shall  by  it  he  maye  so  leve  and  gete  goode,  &c. 

The  summa  of  your  standardis  for  certeyn  reconyd  the  Mondaye  and  the 
Tewsdaye  whill  I  was  at  Sporle  wyth  in  ...  .  and  xij.  fote  wythin 
the  dykes  in  forme  above  rehersid  xj'"'-     And  iche  standarde  a  zard  \_yard'\ 

above  the  grownde abowte  an     .     .     lesser  till  we  come  xij. 

inche  and  viij.  inche  besyde  all  odyr  smale  that  arn  of  lesse  mesure     .... 
growe  the  wheche  arn  many  and  resonabely  sufficient,  &c.,  the  nowmber 

off  the  standardis  wythin  your cowntid  and  summe  be  estima- 

cion  of  the  mesures  and  formes  above  rehersid  CCCC"'^  xxxvj"- 

As  for  your  undyrwode  I  can  not  fynde  the  meane  to  valewid  to  your 
avayle,  be  cause  it  were  necessary  to  knowe  the  purpose  off  your  fellyng,  where 
off  beware,  &c. 

As  for  the  fensyng  of  your  dykes,  and  ze  shuld  felle  your  bordorys  off  your 
wode  the  Suthsyde,  viz.,  toward  Pykenham  fro  the  Wonges  to  Walsyngham 
Weye  is  Ixxx.  rodde  at  leste,  the  price  of  the  rodde  iiij<^.,  dyggyng,  plashyng, 
and  heggyng.  ....  Summa,  xxvjj.  viij^. 

The  Est  syde  toward  Neyghton  and 
Sparham  vij^""-  rodde  at  the  leste,  Summa,  xb. 

1  [From  Fasten  mss.,  B.M.] 

2  Sic,  qu.  *  there  '  ? 

167 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1472  The  Northende  toward  Dunham  Ixxx.  rodde,  Summa,  xxvjj.  vii'jd. 

The  West,  syde  toward  Sporle  be  the  Loyes 
vj''"-  rodde,  .  .  •  Summa,  xIj. 

Summa,  vj/i.  xiijj.  iiij^. 

Where  off  sum  is  repayrid,  sum  maye  be  sperid,  but  at  the  lest  it  woU  coste 
yow  a  vj.  marc,  &c. 

If  it  please  yow  to  take  myn  symple  avyse  in  your  wode  sale,  selle  non  in 
gret,  but  make  fagottes  and  astell  and  lete  alle  your  grete  and  goode  tymber  and 
trees  stande,  and  ze  shall  make  resonably  mony  to  your  worchep,  and  to  your 
best  avayle  as  John  Shawe  your  servaunt  shall  telle  yow,  if  I  maye  do  zow  any 
service  in  this  c  .  .  .  .  ze  shall  fFynde  me  redy,  so  that  ze  sende  sufficient 
warant  be  the  grace  off  Jesu,  Who  haue  y[ow  in  His]  kepyrg.  Wrete  in  hast, 
at  Walsyngham,  the  Sundaye  next  aftyr  the  feest  off  the  Assencion  off  owr 
[Lord]  Jesu  Cryste. 

Be  your  John  Osbern. 

I  praye  yow  geff  credens  in  alle  these  materes  to  Shawe,  for  he  can  telle 
yow  more  shortlyer  then  I  shuld  wryte,  and  I  hold  hym  trewe  to  yow  in  hese 
menyng. 

Endorsed — Per  John  Osbern,  pro  Sporl  Wood. 


820 

RICHARD  CALLE  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  1 

To  the  ryght  reverent  and  worshipffull  my  mastreSy 
Margaret  Paston^  in  haste. 

NOV.  27  Plesith  it  you  to  wete  that  I  have  receyved  your  letter,  wherln  I  conceyve 

ye  wolde  undrestonde  how  I  do  with  the  sale  of  Sporle  Wode.  It  is  so  that  I 
have  begonne  to  felle  asshe  at  the  townes  ende  for  to  sette  the  centre  on  werke, 
and  be  that  I  shall  undrestonde  how  the  remnaunt  wol  doo.  I  have  sette  suche 
a  classe  [^/^jj]  before  here  ien  [their  eyes'\  ther,  that  they  are  madde  upon  it,  so 
that  I  truste  be  Ester  to  make  of  money,  what  with  the  barke  and  with  the 
asshe,  at  the  leest  1.  marke  for  to  retayle  the  wode  our  selfe,  and  be  Cristemas 
next  after  that,  other  1.  marke,  and  so  yerely  1.  marke  at  Cristemesse  as  longe  as 
the  wode  lasteth,  to  the  some  that  I  tolde  you,  and  I  truste  more  ;  and  to  this  I 
durste  be  bound.  Nevertheles,  I  am  a  bowte  to  selle  it  all  a  grete  and  to  brynge 
it  to  all  moste  to  as  goode  proffe  as  thowe  we  retayled  it  oure  silffe,  for  it  is  so 
that  ther  is  a  man  of  Carbroke,  they  calle  hym  Saunders,  I  may  have  of  hym 
for  all  the  wode  and  barke  that  is  in  Sporle  xj""-  marke,  to  paye  at  suche  dayes 
a  fore  reherseyd,  we  to  here  the  costes  of  the  fense  and  of  the  tithe  ;  but  we  are 
not  throw  yet,  nor  nought  shal  be  tille  I  have  worde  from  you  a  yene,  weche  I 

1  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]     It  is  evident  that  this  letter  must  have  been  written 
some  time  after  the  preceding,  but  very  probably  in  the  same  year. 

168 


EDWARD  IV 

must  have  be  Sonday  come  sevenyte  at  the  fertheste,  for  on  the  Wednesdaye  1 4?  2 
nexte  after  that  we  shal  mete  a  yene  at  Sporle.  Wherfore  I  beseche  you  sende  nov.  27 
me  your  avice  how  ye  thynke  herein,  and  I  shal  doo  that  in  me  is  be  Godes 
grace ;  if  I  can  do  better  with  hym  I  shall.  It  shal  be  harde  werke,  but  if 
I  haunse  hym  som  what,  for  ther  is  moche  money  be  twix  us,  and  therfore  spare 
not  to  sende  my  master.  Sir  John,  worde  to  take  suche  dayes  of  payment  as  is 
a  bove  wreten,  for  it  shalbe  performed  what  wey  som  ever  we  take  be  Godes 
grace. 

Item,  mastres,  as  for  your  write  [^wrig/j(^  ye  may  not  have  hym  tille  after 
Cristemas,  for  he  had  taken  an  howse  to  make  while  I  was  with  you,  it  wolbe 
this  iij.  wekes  yet  or  then  he  make  an  ende,  &c. 

Item,  I  mette  with  Robert  at  Heythe  of  Matelaske  at  Norwiche,  when  I 
come  from  you.  I  felle  on  hande  with  hym  for  Matelaske  Kerre,  I  myght 
have  had  of  hym  for  that  vij.  marke  and  xx^.     Dele  nogh  as  ye  thynke. 

Item,  as  for  money  of  the  fermour  of  Sporle,  he  telles  me  he  is  bounde  to 
Tounesende  to  pay  hym  at  this  Candelmesse.  And  he  seythe  if  he  may  be 
discharged  a  yenst  hym  your  money  shalbe  redy  at  hys  daye,  be  Godes  grace. 
Who  have  you  in  His  blissed  kepyng. 

Wreten  at  Sporle,  the  Friday  next  after  Seint  Edmund  the  Kynge. 

Your  servaunt,  R.  Calle. 


821 
JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON 

To  Sir  John  Paston^  Knyght. 


SYME  recomandyth  hym  to  your  good  mastyrshep,  and 
preyeth  yow  that  ye  wyll  not  forget,  though  he  be  a 
boye,  to  let  hym  were  the  same  lyvere  that  your  men 
do  ;  and  if  it  pleased  yow  to  lete  hys  gowne  clothe  be  sent 
hym  home,  that  it  myght  be  mad  ayenst  your  comeing  in  to 
thys  contre,  he  wold  be  as  prowd  as  eny  man  ye  have.  Sir,  as 
hertly  as  I  can,  I  thank  yow  for  the  hatt,  whyche  is  comyng,  as 
I  undyrstand  by  your  wrytyng,  sent  by  John,  the  Abottys  man 
of  Seynt  Benet. 

My   modyr    sendys   you   Godes   biyssyng   and   hyrs,   and 
preyes  yow  to  get  a  new  lycence  of  my  Lord  of  Norwyche 

1  [From  Fasten  mss.,  B.M.]  The  date  ot  this  letter  is  shown  by  the  reference  to 
the  situation  of  the  Duchess  of  Norfolk.  Compare  Letter  817.  There  is  an  old,  and 
nearly  contemporary,  endorsement,  '  Anno  xv°,  mens.  Novemb.,'  but  this  is  clearly 
erroneous. 

169 


NOV. 

or 

DEC. 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1472    that  she   may  have   the   sacrement   in   hyr   chapell.     I   gat   a 
NOV.      lycence  of  hym  for  a  yere,  and  it  is  nyghe  woryn  ought.     Ye 
°^       may  get  it  for  the  Byshoppys  lyve,  and  ye  wylle. 

As  for  the  lettyrs  that  Slyfeld  shold  get  newe  of  the  Kyng, 
whyche  ye  shold  bryng  to  my  Lord  of  NorfFolk,  it  is  myn 
avyse  that  ye  shall  come  home  your  sylfF  as  hasty  ly  as  ye 
maye,  so  that  ye  may  be  at  the  crystenyng  of  the  chyld  that 
my  Lady  is  with  ;  it  shall  cause  yow  gret  thank,  and  a  gret 
fordell  [advantage]  in  your  mater.  And  as  for  the  lettres,  leve 
a  man  of  yowr  to  awayte  on  Slyfeld  to  bryng  theym  after 
yow  ;  of  whyche  lettres  I  avyse  yow  to  have  one  dyrect  fro  the 
Kyng  to  yow,  comandyng  yow  to  be  the  messenger  and  brynger 
of  the  other  lettres  to  my  Lord,  my  Lady,  and  ther  consayll, 
for  your  owne  mater  ;  and  thys  me  thynkyth  shall  do  well,  for 
then  shall  the  man  shewe  to  my  Lordes  consayll  the  lettre 
dyrect  to  yow  that  ye  have  awtoryte  to  be  your  owne  solycy- 
tour,  and  also  it  shall  be  thought  that  the  Kyng  tendryth  yow 
and  your  mater,  when  he  wryghtyth  to  your  sylf  for  it. 

My  Lady  wayteth  hyr  tyme  with  in  viij.  dayes  at  the 
ferthest. 

822 
ABSTRACT  1 

DEC.  7  1472,    7    Dec. — 'Vigill    of  Concepcion    of  oure    Lady,'     12    Edw.    iv. 

Indenture  of  agreement  (in  English)  between  Bp.  Waynflete  and  William 
Worceter,  by  which  the  latter  undertakes  to  deliver  to  the  Bishop  all  deeds, 
charters,  rolls  of  courts,  and  accounts,  and  all  other  muniments  which  are  in  his 
hands  relating  to  the  manors  and  lands  of  the  late  Sir  John  Fastolf,  excepting 
lands,  etc.  in  Norfolk,  called  Fairchilds,  and  two  tenements  and  two  gardens 
called  Walles,  in  Suthwerk,  of  which  he  himself  is  seised  ;  and  also,  as  executor 
of  the  will  of  Sir  Thomas  Howes,  to  deliver  up  all  money  and  goods  of  Fastolf, 
and  obligations  for  property,  etc.,  sold  by  the  said  Thomas,  which  he  can 
recover,  over  the  sum  of  ,^40  due  to  him,  the  said  William  Worceter,  for  his 
marriage,  and  also  to  assist  the  said  Bishop  and  his  College  at  Oxford  in  all 
matters  relating  to  FastolFs  lands  ;  in  return  for  which  the  Bishop  covenants  to 
pay  him  ^100,  and  also  an  allowance  upon  all  sums  of  money  recovered  by 
him. 


1  This  abstract  is  taken  from  Mr.  Macray's  account  of  the  mss.  in  Magdalen 
College,  Oxford,  printed  in  the  Fourth  Report  of  the  Historical  Mss.  Commission. 

170 


EDWARD  IV 

823 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTONi 
To  my  Mastyr^  Sir  John  Paston,  Knyght,  be  thys  delyveryd. 

RYGHT  worchepfuU  Syr,  I  recomand  me  to  yow,  thank-     1472 
yng  yow  most  hertly  of  your  gret  cost,  whyche  ye  dyd   dec.  18 
on  me  at  my  last  being  with  yow  at  London ;  whyche 
to  my  power  I  wyll  recompence  yow  with  the  best  servyse 
that  lythe  in  me  to  do  for  your  plesure,  whyll  my  wytts  be  my 
owne. 

Syr,  as  for  the  mater  of  Caster,  it  hathe  be  mevyd  to  my 
Ladys  good  grace  by  the  Byshope  of  Wynchester,  as  well  as  he 
kowd  imagyn  to  sey  it,  consederyng  the  lytyll  leyser  that  he 
had  with  hyr  ;  and  he  told  me  that  he  had  ryght  an  agreabyll 
answer  of  hyr,  but  what  hys  answer  was,  he  wold  not  tell  me. 
Then  I  axyd  hym  what  answer  I  should  send  yow,  in  as  myche 
as  ye  mad  me  a  solysyter  10  hys  Lordship  for  that  mater  ;  then 
he  bad  me  that  undyr  consayll  I  shold  send  you  woord  that  hyr 
answer  was  more  to  your  plesure  than  to  the  contrary,  whych 
ye  shall  have  more  pleyn  knowlage  of  thys  next  terme,  att 
whyche  tyme  bothe  my  Lord  and  she  shall  be  at  London. 

The  Byshop  cam  to  Framlyngham  on  Wednysday  at  nyght, 
and  on  Thursday  by  x.  of  the  clok  befor  noon,  my  yong  Lady 
was  krystend,  and  namyd  Anne.  The  Byshop  crystend  it  and 
was  godfader  bothe,  and  with  in  ij.  owyrs  and  lesse  aftyr  the 
crystenyng  was  do,  my  Lord  of  Wynchester  departyd  towards 

Waltham.2 

And  I  let  you  pleynly  weet,  I  am  not  the  man  I  was,  ffor  I  was 

*  [From  Fenn,  ii.  42.]  Fenn  informs  us  that  this  letter  is  dated  on  the  back  in  a 
contemporaneous  handwriting,  '  Anno  x°.,'  which  seems  to  mean  10  Edw.  iv.  This 
date  however,  is  certainly  erroneous ;  for  in  the  inquisitions  taken  on  the  death  of  the 
Duke  of  Norfolk,  Anne,  Lady  Mowbray,  his  daughter  and  heir,  was  found  to  have 
been  four  years  old  on  the  loth  December  1476.  She  was  bom,  therefore,  on  the  loth 
December  1472. 

2  Then  follows  the  substance  of  a  conversation  between  the  Lady  of  Norfolk  and 
Thomas  Davers,  wherein  she  promises  to  be  a  friend  to  Sir  John  Paston  concerning 
Caister;  but  J.  Davers  swore  J.  Paston  not  to  mention  her  goodwill  to  any  person, 
except  to  Sir  John. — F. 

171 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1472     never  so  roughe  in  my  mastyrs  conseyt  as  I  am  now,  and  that 
DEC.  18    he  told  me  hymselff  before  Rychard  Sothewell,  Tymperley,  Sir 
W.  Brandon,  and  twenty  more,  so  that  they  that  lowryd,  nowgh  ^ 
laughe  upon  me  ;  no  moor,  but  god  look. 

Wretyn  at  Framlyngham,  the  Fryday  next  aftyr  that  I 
depertyd  fro  yow.  Thys  day  my  Lord  is  towardys  Walsyng- 
ham,  and  comandyd  me  to  overtake  hym  to  morow  at  the 
ferthest. 

J.  P. 

824 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  THE  DUKE  OF  NORFOLK  2 

'Ilo  the  right  hyghe  and  myghty  Prince,  and  my  right  good 
and  gracious  Lord,  my  Lord  the  Dwke  of  Norffolk. 

1472  "^  y^EKLY  besechyth  your  hyghness,  your  poore  and 
^^y  I  trew  contynuall  servaunt  and  oratour,  John  Paston, 
the  yonger,  that  it  myght  please  your  good  grace  to 
call  on  to  your  most  discret  and  notabyll  remembrance  that 
lateward,  at  the  cost  and  charge  of  my  brodyr,  John  Paston, 
Knyght,  whyche  most  entendith  to  do  that  myght  please  your 
hyghness,  the  ryght  nobyll  Lord,  the  Bysshop  of  Wynchester 
entretyd  so,  and  compouned  with  your  Lordshepp,  that  it 
liekyd  the  same  to  be  so  good  and  gracious  Lord  to  my  seyd 
brodyr,  that  by  forsse  of  serteyn  dedys,  relessis,  and  lettrys  of 
attorney  selyd  with  the  sealys  of  your  good  grace,  and  of  other 
serteyn  personys  infeoffyd  to  your  use  in  the  maner  of  Caster, 
late  John  FastolfFes,  Knyght,  in  the  conte  of  Norffolk,  my  seyd 
brodyr  and  I,  with  other  enfeoffyd  to  my  seyd  brodyrs  use  in 
the  seyd  maner,  wer  peasably  possessyd  of  and  in  the  same  tyll 
syche  tyme  as  serteyn  personys,  servaunts  on  to  your  good 
grace,  entred  in  to  the  seyd  maner,  and  therof  have  takyn  the 

1  In  the  modern  version  Fenn  reads,  'so  that  they  that  lo-ved  not,  laugh  upon  me/ 

2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  petition  is  shown  by  internal  evidence  to  have 
been  drawn  up  towards  the  end  of  the  year  1472,  as  it  sets  forth  that  the  Duke  had 
been  more  than  three  years  in  possession  of  Caister,  which  was  surrendered  to  him  in 
September  1469.  There  can  be  no  doubt  therefore  that  it  was  presented  or  prepared 
for  presentation  at  the  time  of  John  Paston's  visit  to  Framlingham. 

172 


EDWARD  IV 

issuses  and  profitys  in  the  name  of  your  seyd  hyghnesse  by  the  1472 
space  of  thre  yer  and  more,  to  the  gret  hurt  of  my  seyd  brodyr 
and  me  your  seyd  servuantes  and  oratour  :  wherfor,  as  I  have 
oft  tymys  befor  thys,  I  beseche  your  good  grace,  at  the 
reverence  of  God,  and  in  the  wey  of  charyte,  that  my  seyd 
brodyr  may  by  your  hyghness  be  ayen  restoryd  in  to  the 
possessyon  of  the  sey[d]  maner,  acordyng  to  the  lawe  and  good 
conscyence  ;  and  wee  shall  prey  to  God  for  the  preservacyon 
of  your  most  nobyll  estate. 


825 
MARGARET  PASTON  TO  SIR  JAMES  GLOYS(?)i 

1RECOMAUND  me  to  you,  and  thanke  you  hertyly  of  1473 
your  letteris,  and  delygente  labour  that  ye  have  had  in  jan.  18 
thoes  materis  that  ye  have  wretyn  to  me  of,  and  in  all 
other,  to  my  profette  and  worschep,  and  in  esspeciall  atte  this 
sesons  towchyng  the  mater  that  I  sent  you  the  indenture  of. 
Ye  have  lyghtyd  myne  hert  therin  by  a  pound,  for  I  was  in 
fere  that  it  wold  not  have  bene  doo  so  hastyly  with  oute 
danger.  And  as  for  the  letters  that  Thom  Holler  son  schuld 
have  brought  me,  I  see  nother  hym  ne  the  letters  that  he 
schuld  have  brought ;  wherefor,  I  pray  you  hertely,  yeve  it  be 
no  dysese  to  you,  that  ye  will  take  the  labour  to  bryng  Walter 
theyr  he  schuld  be,  and  to  purvaye  for  hym  that  he  may  be 
sette  in  good  and  sad  rewle.  For  I  were  loth  to  lese  hym,  for 
I  trust  to  have  more  joye  of  hym  than  I  have  of  them  that 
bene  owlder  ;  though  it  be  more  coste  to  me  to  send  you 
forth  with  hym,  I  hold  me  plesed,  for  I  wote  wele  ye  schall 
best  purvaye  for  hym,  and  for  suche  thynges  as  is  necessar  to 

1  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  The  allusion  by  the  writer  to  her  cousin  Berney's 
sickness  makes  it  probable  that  this  letter  was  written  in  i^y?,  when  the  Monday 
after  St.  Hilary  would  be  the  i8th  of  January.  John  Berney  of  Reedham  died  on  the 
20th  January  in  that  year  (Inquis.  post  mortem,  13  Edw.  iv.,  No.  17).  The  letter  has 
neither  signature  nor  address,  but  was  probably  written  by  Margaret  Paston  to  her 
priest,  Sir  James  Gloys,  who  died  in  the  course  of  this  year. 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1473  hym,  than  another  shuld  doo,  after  myne  intent.  And  as  for 
JAN.  18  aj-^e  hors  to  lede  hys  gere,  me  thynke  it  were  best  porvaye 
one  atte  Camberage,  lesse  than  [unless]  ye  canne  gytte  onye 
carreours  from  thens  to  Oxynforth  more  hastyly ;  and  J 
mervell  that  the  letters  come  not  to  me,  and  whether  I  may 
laye  the  defaute  to  the  fauder  or  to  the  son  therof.  And  I 
wold  Water  schuld  be  copilet  with  a  better  than  Holler  son  is, 
there  as  he  schalbe  ;  howe  be  it  I  wold  not  that  he  schuld 
make  never  the  lesse  of  hym,  by  cause  he  is  his  contre  man 
and  neghbour.  And  also  I  pray  you  wryte  a  letter  in  my 
name  to  Watere,  after  that  ye  have  knowne  myne  entent  by 
fore  this  to  hym  ward  ;  so  that  he  doo  welle,  lerne  well,  and 
be  of  good  rewle  and  disposycion,  ther  shall  nothyng  fay  lie 
hym  that  I  may  helpe  with,  so  that  it  be  nessessare  to  hym  ; 
and  bydde  hym  that  he  be  not  to  hasty  of  takyng  of  orderes 
that  schuld  bynd  hym,  till  that  he  be  of  xxiiij.  yeere  of  agee  or 
more,  thofF  he  be  consaled  the  contrare,  for  oftyn  rape  [haste] 
rewlth.  I  will  love  hym  better  to  be  a  good  secular  man  than 
to  be  a  lewit  prest. 

And  I  am  sore  that  my  cosyn  Bernay  is  seke,  and  1  pray 
you  yeflP  me  white  wine,  or  ony  of  my  wateris,  or  ony  other 
thyng  that  I  have  that  is  in  your  awarde,  may  doo  hym  ony 
comforth.  I  lette  hym  have  it ;  for  I  wold  be  right  sory  yf 
ony  thyng  schuld  come  to  hym  botte  good.  And  for  Godsake 
advise  hym  to  doo  make  hys  will,  yeve  it  be  not  doo,  and  to 
doo  well  to  my  cosyn,  his  wiff,  and  els  it  were  pete ;  and  I 
pray  you  to  recomaunde  me  to  hyr,  and  to  my  nawnte,  and  to 
all  the  gentill  men  and  gentil  women  there.  And  as  for  John 
Daye,  and  he  be  dede  I  wold  be  sory,  for  I  know  not  howe  to 
come  by  my  mony  that  he  oweith  me  ;  and  I  porpose  that 
Pacoke  schall  have  les  to  doo  for  me  another  yeres  than  he 
haith  had,  if  I  may  be  better  porvayed  with  your  helpe,  for  he 
is  for  hym  self,  bott  not  for  me. 

And  as  for  ony  marchandes  to  my  corn,  I  can  gytte  none 
here  ;  ther  for  I  pray  you,  doo  ye  als  wele  therein  as  ye  canne  ; 
also  I  send  you  by  the  bereer  hereof  the  bill  of  myne  resaytes. 
And  yef  ye  go  forth  with  Walter,  I  pray  you  come  to  me  als 
sone  as  ye  may  after  ye  be  commyn  home ;  and  me  lyketh 
174 


EDWARD  IV 

myne  abydyng  and  the  contre  here^  i*ight  well,  and  I  trust  i473 
whan  sommer  comith  and  fayre  wether,  I  schall  lyke  it  better,  J^n.  i8 
for  I  am  cherysed  here  botte  to  wel. 

And  I  constrew  your  letter  in  other  materis  well  i  nough, 
whereof  I  thanke  you ;  and  if  it  nede  not  to  send  forth 
Walter  hastyly,  I  wald  ye  myght  come  to  me,  thowe  ye  schuld 
com  opon  one  day  and  goo  agayne  on  the  next  day,  than 
schuld  I  comon  with  you  in  all  materis  ;  and  I  hold  best  if  ye 
have  not  the  letteris  that  Holler  son  schuld  have  brough  me, 
that  ye  send  Sym  over  for, them  this  nyght  that  I  may  have 
them  to  morowe,  and  yif  ye  may  combe  your  self,  I  wold  be 
the  better  playsed. 

And  I  remember  that  water  of  mynte  or  water  of  millefole 
were  good  for  my  cosyn  Bernay  to  drynke,  for  to  make  hym 
to  browke,^  and  yeve  thei  send  to  Dame  Elesebeth  Callethorppe 
ther  ye  shall  not  fayill  of  the  tone  or  of  both,  sche  haith  other 
wateris  to  make  folkis  to  browke.     God  kepe  you. 

Wrytyn  on  the  Monday  next  after  Sent  Hiller. 

I  have  no  longer  leyser  atte  this  tyme. 


826 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 

To  John  Paston,  Esquyer^  or  to  Mestresse  Margret  Paston^ 
hys  Modre  be  thys  letter  delyveryd. 

WEELL  belovyd  Brother.* feb.  3 
As  ffor  tydyngs  heer,  ther  bee  but  fewe,  safF 
that   the   Duke  of  Borgoyen  ^  and  my  Lady,  hys 
wyffe  farethe  well.     I  was  with  them  on  thorysdaye  last  past 

1  I  think  this  must  have  been  written  at  Maltby,  where  Margaret  Paston  certainly 
lived  during  her  later  years,  and  where  she  was  doubtless  staying  when  she  desired  a 
license  of  the  Bishop  to  have  the  Sacrament  in  her  private  chapel.     See  No.  821. 

2  i.e.  to  enable  him  to  retain  food  in  his  stomach. 

3  [From  Fenn,  ii.  120.] 

*  Here  follows  an  account  of  letters  sent  to  him  from  Calais — of  farme  barly  in 
Fledge,  and  of  olde  stufFe  at  Norwich,  etc. — F. 

^  Charles  the  Bold,  and  Margaret,  sister  to  Edward  iv. 


FEB 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1473  ^t  Gawiit/  Peter  Metteney  ffarethe  weell,  and  Mestresse 
3  Gretkyn  bothe  and  Rabekyn  recomend  hyr  to  yow  ;  she  hathe 
ben  verry  seke,  but  it  hathe  doon  hyr  goode,  ffor  she  is  ffayrer 
and  slenderer  than  she  was,  and  she  cowde  make  me  no  cheer 
but  alwey  my  sawse  was  '  How  fFaret  Master  John,  yowr 
brother  ? '  wher  with  I  was  wrothe,  and  spake  a  jalous  worde 
or  too,  dysdeynyng  that  she  sholde  care  so  moche  ffor  yow, 
when  that  I  was  present. 

Sende  me  worde  to  Hoxons  in  wrygtyng,  what  goode  the 
Bysshop  ded  ffor  me  at  Framynham,  and  howe  my  Lorde,  my 
Ladye,  and  all  the  cort  or  [are']  dysposyd  to  me  wards. 

I  here  also  seye  that  my  Ladye  and  yowrs,  Dame  Margret 
Veer  ^  is  ded,  God  have  hyr  sowle  ;  iff  I  weer  not  sorye  ffor 
herr,  I  trowe  ye  have  been. 

No  moor  to  yow  at  thys  tyme,  but  All  myghty  Good  have 
yow  in  kepyng. 

Wretyn  at  Caleys  the  iij.  daye  of  Februarye  Anno  R.  R.  E. 
iiij.  x\'f-  J.  P.,  K. 


827 

NOTE 

FEB.  10  In  Blomefield's  History  of  Norfolk,  vol.  xi.  p.   208,  it  is  stated  that  <on 

February  10  in  the  13th  of  Edward  iv.,  an  indenture  was  made  between  Sir 
William  Yelverton,  William  Jenney,  serjeant-at-law,  and  William  Worcester, 
executors  of  Sir  John  [Fastolf  ]  on  one  part,  and  Thomas  Cager  and  Robert 
Kyrton  on  the  other,  whereby  the  said  Robert  was  appointed  surveyor  of  the 
lands  and  tenements  in  Southwark  and  other  places  in  Surrey,  late  Sir  John's, 
to  perform  his  last  will ;  and  also  receiver  of  rents ;  who  was  to  have  6  marks 
per  arm.,  and  to  be  allowed  besides  all  reasonable  costs  that  he  shall  do  in  the 
defence  and  keeping  out  John  Paston,  Esq.,  and  of  all  others  claiming  by  him.' 


1  Ghent,  in  the  Netherlands. 

2  Daughter  and  heir  of  Sir  William  Stafford,  and  wife  to  Sir  George  Vere.    Their 
son,  John  Vere,  was  afterwards  Earl  of  Oxford. — F. 


176 


EDWARD  IV 

828 

ABSTRACT  1 

*J.  P.'   [^JoHN  Pastonj   to  Sir  John  Paston 

As  I  promised  in  the  letter  that  Playter  sent,  Playter  and  I  have  been  with  Ia-ji 
my  mother  to  get  her  to  make  chevesance  for  the  ;^ioo,  but  she  bade  us  send  ^arch  8 
you  word,  you  need  look  for  no  other  comfort  from  her.  Jwde  can  tell  you 
Barker's  answer.  As  for  John  Kook  you  promised  him  payment  yourself  and 
to  Sir  John  Styll  5  marks  in  part  payment.  My  mother  has  sold  her  barley 
for  14^.  I  never  meet  John  Smyth  but  I  speak  of  it  to  him.  He  keeps  his 
courts  here  at  Norwich  all  the  week.  As  for  Fastolf,  I  can  only  speak  to 
Wymondham  his  father-in-law,  which  I  do  as  often  as  I  see  him.  Would  be 
sorry  the  great  matter  which  requires  hasty  answer  *  lest  the  kok  be  in  perayle ' 
should  be  delayed  by  his  negligence.  Thinks  Edmund  Fastolf  *  was  a  reason- 
'  able  man  to  Robert  of  Lyne.  Wherefore,  let  my  brother  Edmund  sue  for 
'  the  same,  for  one  wife  may  serve  for  us  both  till  better  peace  be.  So  God 
'  help  me  ye  may  allege  a  plain  excuse  that  these  dyrk  wars  have  so  hindered 
'  me  that  her  lyvelode  and  mine  both  should  be  too  little  to  live  at  our  ease  till 
'  I  were  further  before  the  hand  than  I  could  be  this  two  year,  and  she  found 
<  after  her  honor  and  my  poor  appetite.'  Would  rather  forbear  what  he  would 
have  than  bring  them  in  pain.  '  Say  better  for  me,  for  ye  can  and  ye  will. 
'  This  matter  must  be  honestly  handled,  for  I  wot  well  my  young  lady  of 
'  Oxenforthe  shall  hear  of  it.  We  have  here  no  tidings,  but  a  few  Frenchmen 
'  be  whyrlyng  on  the  coasts,  so  that  there  dare  no  fishers  go  out  but  under  safe 
'  conducts.  I  pray  you,  and  ye  have  any  more  oranges  than  ye  occupy,  that 
'  poor  men  may  have  part  for  a  great  bellied  lady.'  First  Monday  of  Clean 
Lent,  13  Edw.  iv. 

Addressed— '  A   Mys'  John    Paston,   schevaller,  soyt  done.'      Endorsed— '  Mens" 
Marcii  Anno  xiij°/ 

829 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  2 

To  my  Master^  Sir  John  Pastoriy  Knyght^  he  thy 5 
delyverd  in  hast. 

AS  I  was  wryghtyng  this  bylle,  Mastresse  Jane  Harsset  march  26 
comandyd  me  streyghtly  that  I  shold  recomand  hyr 
to  yow  in  hyr  best  wyse,  and  she  sendyth  yow  word 
she  wold  be  as  fayne  to  here  fro  yow  as  an  other  poore  body. 

1  [From  MS,  Phillipps  9735,  No.  257.] 

2  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]     This  letter  is  endorsed  with  what  appears  to  have 
been  the  date  of  its  receipt — 'xxviijo  die  Marcii  A°  xiij°  E.  iiij".' 

VOL.  V, M  177 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1473  -^y^*  it  is  SO  that  my  cosyn  John  Blenerhasset  ^  is  enformyd 

MARCH  26  that  for  verry  serteyn  he  is  chosyn  to  be  on  of  the  colectours 
of  the  taske  in  Norffolk,  wher  in  verry  trowthe  he  hathe  not 
a  foot  of  lond  with  in  the  shyer  ;  wherfor  I  beseche  yow  that, 
as  hastyly  as  ye  may  aftyr  the  syght  of  thys  bylle,  that  it  may 
please  yow  to  take  the  labore  to  comon  with  Sir  Rychard 
Harrecorte,  and  to  let  hym  have  knowlage  that  thys  gentyll- 
man  hathe  nowght  with  in  the  shyer,  and  that  ye  tweyne  may 
fynd  the  meane  to  get  hym  owght  of  that  thanklesse  offyce, 
for  I  promyse  yow  it  encomberthe  hym  evyll,  and  my  mastresse 
hys  wyffe,  and  alle  us  hys  frendys  here  ;  and  if  so  be  that  ye 
and  Sir  R.  Harcorte  may  not  fynd  the  meane  betwyx  yow, 
that  then  it  may  please  yow  to  meve  my  Lord  Chamberleyn 
with  thys  mater,  and  so  Master  Harsset  prayithe  yow,  and 
Mastresse  Jane,  hys  wyfF  also,  for  she  lyekyth  no  thyng  by 
the  ofyce. 

It  is  thowght  her  amonge  us  that  Heydons  be  the  causers 
that  he  was  set  in.  I  prey  yow  enqwer  of  Sir  R.  Harcort  who 
was  the  cause,  and  that  it  may  be  wyst  in  the  next  byll  that  ye 
send  me  ;  for  if  they  wer  the  causers,  it  lythe  in  my  cosyn 
Harsettes  power  to  qwytte  theym. 

We  have  no  tydynges  to  send,  but  that  our  Frenshemen^ 
whyche  kepte  our  costs  her  ar  home  into  France,  for  lake  of 
vytayll,  we  saye. 

Hogan  ^  is  put  in  the  Gyld  Halle  in  Norwyche,  and  shalbe 
browght  up  to  London  for  reportyng  of  hys  old  talys.  He 
varythe  not.  No  more,  but  I  prey  God  send  yow  the  Holy 
Cost  amonge  yow  in  the  Parlement  Howse,  and  rather  the 
Devyll,  we  sey,  then  ye  shold  grante  eny  more  taskys. 

Wretyn  the  day  next  aftyr  our  Lady  Day,  the  Anuncya- 
cyon.  Anno  xiij.  E.  iiij". 

Yong    Heydon    laborythe    alle    that  he   can   to   mary   on 

1  John  Blennerhasset,  Bleverhasset,  and  (for  shortness)  often  called  Harsset,  of 
Frens,  married  iirst  Jane,  daughter  ot  Thomas  Higham,  Esq.,  and  secondly  Jane, 
daughter  of  Sir  Thomas  Tindal  of  Hockwold,  Knight.  He  died  in  15 10,  aged 
87.— F. 

2  The  French  vessels  that  infested  the  coast,  as  mentioned  in  the  preceding  letter. 

3  Hogan  pretended  to  foretell  commotions  and  rebellions,  etc. — F. 

178 


EDWARD  IV 

of  hys  doughtyr   to   yonge   John   Barney^   by   the   mean   of     1473 
W.  Calthorpp.  ^'arch  26 

830 
SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 

A  son  trescher  i^  hon  ame  Freer,  John  de  Fasten,  Esquier. 

WEELL  belovyd  brother,  I  recomand  me  to  yow,  ■^''R'l  2 
letyng  yow  wete  that  at  the  request  of  Mestresse 
Jane  Hassett  and  yow,  1  have  laboryd  the  knyghtys 
off  the  sheer  off  Norffolk,  and  the  knyghtys  off  the  shyre  of 
Suffolk.  I  understond  ther  had  ben  made  labor  that  suche  a 
thing  shulde  have  ben  as  ye  wrotte  to  me  off,  but  now  it  is  saff. 

Raff  Blaundrehasset  wer  a  name  to  styrte  an  hare.  I 
warrant  ther  shall  come  no  suche  name  in  owr  bokys,  ner  in 
owr  house  ;  it  myght  per  case  styrt  xx"  harys  at  onys  ;  ware 
that  ]d.  perse.^  I  redde  ther  in  the  bille  off  Norffolk,  off  one 
John  Tendall,  Esquier,  but  I  suppose  it  be  not  ment  by  owr 
Tendall,  and  iff  it  be,  he  shall  not  rest  theer,  iffe  I  maye 
helpe  it. 

As  for  tydyngs,  the  werst  that  I  herde  was  that  my 
moodre  wyll  not  doo  so  moche  ffor  me  as  she  put  me  in 
comffort  off. 

Other  tydyngs,  I  herd  sey  ffor  serteyn  that  the  Lady  Fitz- 
water  is  ded,  and  that  Master  Fytzwater  shall  have  CCCC. 
mrke  a  yer  more  than  he  had.     I  am  not  sory  therffor. 

As  ffor  the  worlde  I  woot  nott  what  it  menyth,  men  seye 
heer,  as  weell  as  Hogan,  that  we  shall  have  adoo  in  hast ;  I 
know  no  lyklyhod  but  that  suche  a  rumor  ther  is. 

Men  sey  the  Qwyen  with  the  Prynce  shall  come  owt  off 
Walys,  and  kepe  thys  Esterne  with  the  Kyng  at  Leycetr,  and 
some  seye  nowther  off  them  shall  com  ther. 

Item,  off  beyond  the  see,  it  is  seyd  that  the  Frense  Kyngs 

^  This  marriage  never  took  effect. — F. 

2  [From  Fenn,  ii.  122.] 

3  '  Ware  that  penny  purse  ' — qu.  that  penurious  fellow  ? 

179 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1473  host  hathe  ley  11yd  the  Erie  of  Armenak-^  and  all  hys  myry 
APRIL  2  mene  ;  some  seye  undre  appoyntment,  and  some  seye  they 
wer  besegyd,  and  gotyn  by  pleyn  assault, 

Ferthermoor  men  seye  that  the  Frenshe  Kynge  is  with 
hys  ost  uppon  the  water  off  Some  a  Ix.  myle  froo  Caleys  ;  I 
leve  them  wheer  I  ffond  them. 

I  made  yowr  answer  to  the  ffrends  off  Mestresse  Jane 
Godnoston  accordyng  to  yowr  instrucions.  As  for  me,  I  am 
nott  serteyn  whether  I  shall  to  Caleys,  to  Leysetr,  or  come 
home  into  Norffolk,  but  I  shall  hastely  send  yow  worde,  &c. 

Wretyn  the  ij.  daye  of  i^prill.  Anno  E.  iiij.  xiij°. 


831 
SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 

To  John  Paston^  Esquier. 

APRIL  12  TP^  EST  belovyd  brother,  I  recomend  me  on  to  yow,  letyng 
1^  yow  weet  that  I  receyvyd  on  Wednysday  last  past  yow 
■^-^  angery  lettre  towchyng  the  troble  that  Sandre  Kok  is 
in,  wherein  I  have  largely  comonyd  with  John  Russe,  and 
advysed  hym  to  take  a  curteys  weye  with  Sandre,  for  yowre 
sake  and  myn.  He  seythe  he  wold  not  dysplease  yow  by  hys 
wyll,  and  that  he  purposythe  to  entrete  yow  and  wolde  deserve 
it  to  yowe.  He  undrestod  that  ye  had  large  Ian  gage  to  the 
jurye  that  passyd  again  Saundre,  I  lete  hym  weete  that  ye 
weer  wrothe,  and  that  he  shall  nowther  please  yowe  ner  me, 
but  iff  he  dele  curteyslye  with  Saundre.  I  tolde  hym  as  for 
the  condempnacion  uppon  the  accion  off  trespasse  I  thoght  it 
nowther  good  ner  worshypfull.  Also  I  have  wretyn  to  the 
person  of  Maultby  to  dele  curteyslye  with  Saundre,  iff  he  woll 
please  yow  or  me. 

1  John,  Count  of  Armagnac,  assassinated  on  the  6th  March  14.73. 

2  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.] 

180 


APRIL   12 


EDWARD  IV 

Item,  I  sende  yow  herwythe  the  supercedyas  for  Saundre  ;     1473 
so  that  iff  ye  fynde  any  meane  for  the  condempnacions  that 
than  ye  maye  ease  therwith  the  suerte  off  pease.     John  Russe, 
as  I  suppose,  is  att  home  thys  daye. 

Item,  as  for  tydynges  heer,  the  Kynge  rydeth  fresselye 
thys  daye  to  Northamton  warde,  there  to  be  thys  Esterne,  and 
after  Esterne  he  purposythe  to  be  moche  at  Leysettre,  and  in 
Leysettre  shyre.  Every  man  seythe  that  we  shall  have  a  doo 
or  Maye  passe.  Hogan  the  prophet  is  in  the  Tower  ;  he 
wolde  fayne  speke  with  the  Kyng,  but  the  Kynge  seythe  he 
shall  not  avaunt  that  evyr  he  spake  with  hym. 

Item,  as  for  me,  I  most  nedys  to  Caleyse  warde  to 
morowe.  I  shall  be  heer  ageyn,  if  I  maye,  thys  next  terme. 
John  Myryell,  Thyrston,  and  W.  Woode  be  goon  from  me,  I 
shrewe  them. 

My  modre  dothe  me  moor  harme  than  good  ;  I  wende  she 
wolde  have  doon  for  me.  Playter  wroot  to  me  that  she 
wolde  have  leyde  owt  for  me  C//.,  and  receyvyd  it  ageyn  in  v. 
yer  of  the  maner  of  Sporle,  wherto  I  trustyd,  whyche  if  she 
had  performyd,  I  had  nott  ben  in  no  juperte  of  the  maner  of 
Sporle.  Neverthelesse  I  shall  do  whatt  I  kan  yitt.  I  preye 
yow  calle  uppon  hyr  for  the  same,  remembre  hyr  of  that 
promyse. 

Item,  I  preye  yow  remembre  hyr  for  my  fadrys  tombe  at 
Bromholme.  She  dothe  ryght  nott  [naught]  ;  I  am  afferde  of 
hyr  that  she  shall  nott  doo  weell.  Bedyngfelde  shall  mary  Sir 
John  Skottes  doghtre,  as  I  suppose. 

Item,  Janore  Lovedaye  shall  be  weddyd  to  one  Denyse,  a 
ffuattyd  Q)  gentylman,  with  Sir  G.  Brown,  nowther  to  weell 
ner  to  ylle. 

Item,  as  for  me,  iff  I  had  hadd  vj.  dayes  leyser  more  than  I 
hadd,  and  other  also,  I  wolde  have  hopyd  to  have  ben  de- 
lyveryd  of  Mestresse  Anne  Hault.  Hyr  frendes,  the  Quyen 
and  Attclif  agreyd  to  comon  and  conclude  with  me,  if  I  can 
fynde  the  meanes  to  dyscharge  hyr  concyence,  whyche  I  trust 
to  God  to  doo. 

i.  Item,  I  praye  yow  that  ye  take  a  leyser  thys  Estern 
halydayes  to  ryde  to  Sporle  and  sende  for  John  Osberne,  and 

i8i 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1473  I  wolde  ye  sholde  conclude  a  bergayn  with  one  Bocher,  a 
APKiL  12  woode  byer,  whyche  Mendham  that  was  my  fermor  ther  can 
fecche  hym  to  yow. 

ii.  And  thys  is  myn  entent.  I  wolde  have  the  dykes  to 
stonde  stylle,  acordyng  as  John  Osberne  and  I  comonyd,  I 
trow  xij.  foothe  with  in  the  dyke. 

iij.  Item,  that  the  standardes  off  suche  mesur  as  he  and  I 
comonyd  off  maye  also  be  reservyd.  I  suppose  it  was  xxx. 
inche,  abowt  a  yerde  from  the  grownde. 

iiij.  Item,  that  it  be  surely  fencyd  at  the  cost  off  the 
woode  byer  in  any  wyse  with  a  sure  hedge,  bothe  hyghe  and 
stronge. 

V.  Item,  that  ther  be  a  weye  taken  with  the  fermores  for 
the  undrewood,  so  that  I  lesse  not  the  ferme  therffore  yerly. 
Item,  John  Osbern  can  telle  yow  the  meanys  howe  to  entrete 
the  fermores,  for  Herry  Halman  hath  pleyed  the  false  shrowe 
and  fellyd  my  woode  uppon  a  tenement  off  myn  to  the  valew 
off  XX.  marke,  as  it  is  tolde  me.  I  praye  yow  enquire  that 
matre  and  sende  me  worde  and  dele  with  hym  ther  afftre. 

vj.  Item,  iff  the  seyde  wood  clere  above  alle  charges 
excep  as  is  above,  be  made  any  better  than  CC.  marke,  I 
wolle  seye  that  ye  be  a  good  huswyff.  John  Osberne  seythe 
that  he  woll  do  me  a  frendes  turne  ther  in  and  yitt  gete  hym 
self  an  hakeneye. 

vij.  Memorandum,  that  he  have  nott  past  iij.  or  iiij.  yere 
off  untraunce  at  the  ferthest. 

viij.  Item,  thatt  I  have  payement  off  the  holl  as  shortly  as 
ye  kan,  halffe  in  hande,  the  remenaunt  at  halffe  yeer,  or  ellys 
at  ij.  tymes  with  in  one  yere  at  the  ferthest  by  mydsomer  xij. 
monyth. 

ix.  And  that  ye  make  no  ferther  bergayn  than  Sporle 
woode  and  the  lawnde,  not  delyng  with  noon  other  woode, 
nowther  in  the  maner,  nor  ellys  wher  in  none  other  tenement. 

X.  Item,  that  ye  have  sufficient  sewerte  for  the  monye, 
with  penaltes  iff  nede  be,  some  other  men  bonden  with  hym 
for  the  payement. 

xj.   Item,  I  wolle  well  be  bownde  to  waraunt  it  to  hym. 

Item,  I  sende  yow  herwith  a  warant  to  yow  and  John 
182 


EDWARD  IV 

Osberne  joyntlye  to   bergayn.      Comone   and   conclude   that     1473 
bergayn.  apriliz 

xij.  Item,  I  suppose  he  woll,  iff  he  conclude  with  yow, 
desyre  to  felle  thys  Maye,  and  I  to  have  mony  soon  afftre,  I 
reke  not  thowe  he  fellyd  not  tyll  thys  wynter  ;  but  iff  he  woll 
nedes  begyn  thys  Maye,  therffor  I  wryght  yow  thus  hastely 
entrete  hym,  iff  ye  can,  that  he  felle  not  tyll  wynter. 

xiij.  Item,  be  ware  how  ye  bergeyn,  so  that  he  felle  nott 
butt  in  sesonable  tyme  and  sesonable  wood,  for  he  maye  felle 
no  undrewood  thys  Maye,  as  I  trowe 

Item,    as    for    yowr    costes    late    th 

newe  fynde   yow  mete,  and   I   woll   allow  it   there,   or   ellys 

make  me  a  bylle  what  it  dra[weth  to] 

yow. 

Item,  I  praye  yow  iff  ye  g for  me  as  ye 

can.  I  made  my  Lady  heer  but  easy  cheer,  neverthelesse  I 
gaffhyr ys. 

I  promysed  hyr  to  purveye  hyr  ....  weselys,  but 
I  was  deseyvyd  ;  yit  I  wend  to  have  had  one. 

My  Lord  of  Norffolk  hathe  ben  mevyd  for  Caster  by  my 
Lord  Cardenall  and  the  Bysshop  of  Wynchester,  but  it  woll 
take  non  effecte  .  .  .  my  Lady  come.  God  gyff  grace 
that  she  brynge  auctoryte  when  she  comythe  thys  next  terme 
to  common  ther  in  and  conclude,  and  so  I  prey  yow  advyse 
hyr.     Itt  may  haply  paye  for  hyr  costes. 

No  mor  to  yow,  but  wretyn  at  London,  the  xij.  daye  of 
Apryll,  Anno  E.  iiij*'  xiij°. 

I  sende  yow  her  with  ij.  letteris  from  John  Osbern  to  me, 
wherby  and  by  hys  billes  ye  may  undrestond  the  verry  valewe 
off  the  wood. 

I  praye  yow  sende  me  wryghtyng  ageyn  by  the  Mondaye 
vij.  nyght  afftre  Ester;  iff  Hoxon  or  the  goode  man  off  the 
Goot  have  it,  they  shall  conveye  it  welle. 


183 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


832 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

'To  John  Paston,  Esqer^  in  Norffolk. 

i^y^,  W  7 YRSSHYPFULL  and  ryght  hertyly  belowyd  brother. 
APRIL  16      V  V         ^  recomaiide  me  on  to  yow,  letyng  yow  wete  tha: 

on  Wednysdaye  last  past  I  wrote  yow  a  letter, 
wheroff  John  Carbalde  had  the  beryng,  promyttyng  me  that 
ye  shold  have  it  at  Norwyche  thys  daye,  or  ellys  to  morowe  In 
the  mornyng,  wherin  I  praye  yowe  to  take  a  labor  accordyng 
afFtr  the  tenur  off  the  same,  and  that  I  maye  have  an  answer  at 
London  to  Hoxon,  iff  any  massenger  come,  as  ene  I  maye  doo 
ffor  yow. 

As  ffor  tydyngs,  ther  was  a  truse  taken  at  Brussellys  about 
the  XX vj.  daye  off  Marche  last  past,  be  twyn  the  Duke  off 
Borgoyn  and  the  Frense  Kyngs  imbassators  and  Master 
William  At  Clyff  ffor  the  Kyng  heer,  whyche  is  a  pese  be 
londe  and  water  tyll  the  ffyrst  daye  off  Apryll  nowe  next 
comyng,  betweyn  Fraunce  and  Ingelond,  and  also  the  Dukys 
londes.     God  holde  It  ffor  ever  and  grace  be. 

Item,  the  Erie  of  Oxenfford  was  on  Saterdaye  at  Depe, 
and  is  purposyd  Into  Skotlond  with  a  xij.  schyppys.  I  mys- 
trust  that  werke. 

Item,  ther  be  In  London  many  fflyeng  talys,  seying  that 
ther  shold  be  a  werke,  and  yit  they  wot  not  howe. 

Item,  my  Lorde  Chamberleyn  ^  sendyth  now  at  thys 
tyme  to  Caleys  the  yonge  Lorde  Sowche^  and  Sir  Thomas 
Hongreffords   dowtre   and   heyr,^   and  some   seye   the   yonge 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  130.] 

2  William,  Lord  Hastings. — F. 

3  John,  Lord  Zouch  of  Harringworth ;  he  was  attainted  in  the  first  year  of 
Henry  vii. — F, 

*  Mary,  daughter  and  heir  of  Sir  Thomas  Hungerford  ;  she  afterwards  married 
Edward,  son  and  heir  to  William,  Lord  Hastings,  who  in  her  right  became  Lord 
Hungerford,  her  uncle's  attainder  being  reversed. — F. 

184 


EDWARD  IV 

Lady    Haryngton,    thes    be   iij.    grett   jowelles,   Caleys    is    a     1473 
mery  town,  they  shall  dwell  ther  I  wott  not  whylghe   \_how  ^fR'^  16 
long]. 

No  mor,  but  I  have  ben,  and  ame  troblyd  with  myn  over 
large  and  curteys  delyng  with  my  servants,  and  now  with  ther 
onkynd  nesse  ;  Plattyng,  yowr  men  wolde  thys  daye  byd  me 
iFar  well  to  to  morow  at  Dover,  notwithstandyng  Thryston 
yowr  other  man  is  ffrom  me,  and  John  Myryell,  and  W.  Woode 
whyche  promysed  yow  and  Dawbeney,  God  have  hys  sowle,  at 
Castre,  that  iff  ye  wolde  take  hym  in  to  be  ageyn  with  me,  that 
then  he  wold  never  goo  ffro  me,  and  ther  uppon  I  have  kepyd 
hym  thys  iij.  yer  to  pleye  Seynt  Jorge  and  Robyn  Hod  and  the 
Shryff  off  Notyngham,  and  now  when  I  wolde  have  good  horse 
he  is  goon  into  Bernysdale,  and  I  withowt  a  keeper, 

Wretyn  at  Canterburye,  to  Caleys  warde  on  Tewesday  and 
happe  be,  uppon  Good  Frydaye  the  xvj.  daye  off  Apryll,  Anno 
E.  iiij"  xiij°. 

Yowr,  J.  P,  K. 

Item,  the  most  parte  off  the  sowdyors  that  went  over  with 
Sir  Robert  Green  have  leeff,  and  be  comyn  hom,  the  hyghe 
weye  ffull  ;  my  cariage  was  behynd  me  ij.  hours  longer  than  I 
lokyd  afftr,  but  I  wysse  I  wende  that  I  myght  have  etyn  my 
parte  on  Good  Frydaye  all  my  garees  [^Jinery']  and  pryde  had 
ben  goon,  but  all  was  saffe.  I  pray  yow  iff  W.  Mylsent  go 
ffroo  yow,  that  he  myght  come  to  me  at  Caleys,  I  will  have 
hym. 


.85 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

833 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  John  Paston^  Esquyer,  in  Norwich. 

1473      I  '\  YGHT  wershypfull   brother,  I  recomand   me   to  yow, 
MAY  18       r^        &c.- 

As  for  tydyngs,  the  Erie  of  Wylshyr  ^  and  the 
Lord  Sudele  *  be  ded,  and  it  was  sevd  that  Sir  W.  Stanle  was 
deed,  but  nowe  it  is  seyd  naye,  &c. 

Item,  as  ffor  your  goyng  to  Seyn  James,^  I  beleve  it  but 
atwyen  ij.,  &c. 

I  herd  seye  that  a  man  was  thys  daye  examyned,  and  he 
confessed  that  he  knewe  greet  tresor  was  sende  to  the  Erie  off 
Oxenfford,  wheroff  a  m'*  li.  [;^iooo]  sholde  be  conveyd  by  a 
Monlce  off  Westminster,  and  some  seye  by  a  Monke  off 
Chartrehows. 

Item,  that  the  same  man  schulde  acuse  C.  gentylmen  in 
Norffolk  and  Suffolk  that  have  agreyd  to  assyst  the  seyd  Erie 
at  hys  comynge  thyder,  whyche  as  itt  is  seyd,  sholde  be  within 
viij.  dayes  afftr  Seynt  Donston,  iff  wynde  and  weddyr  serffe 
hym — fflyeng  tales.  No  mor  at  thys  tyme,  but  God  have  yow 
in  kepyng. 

Wretyn  at  London  on  Seynt  Donstones  daye,  xviij.  daye 
of  Maye,  Anno,  E.  iiij''  xiij''. 

John  Paston,  K. 

i  [From  Fenn,  ii.  136.] 

2  Then  follow  some  orders  concerning  servants,  debts,  securities,  etc. — F. 

3  John  Stafford  was  created  Earl  of  Wiltshire  in  1470.     He  was  uncle  to  Henry, 
Duke  of  Buckingham. 

* Butler,  Lord  Sudley.— F. 

^  Apparently  John  Paston  had  talked  of  making  a  pilgrimage  to  the  shrine  of  St. 
James  of  Compostella  in  Spain. 


186 


EDWARD  IV 

834 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTONi 

'To  John  Pas  ton,  Esqer,  be  thys  delyveryd. 

RYGHT  wyrshypfuU  brother,  I  comand  me  to  yow,  letyng  1473 
yow  weet  that  thys  daye  I  was  in  very  purpose  to  Caleys  June  3 
ward,  all  redy  to  have  goon  to  the  barge,  saff  I  teryed 
fFor  a  yonge  man  that  I  thoght  to  have  had  with  me 
thyddr,  on  that  was  with  Rows,  whyche  is  in  the  cowntre  ;  and 
because  I  cowde  not  geet  hym,  and  that  I  have  no  mor  heer 
with  me  butt  Pampyng,  Edward,  and  Jak,  therfFor  Pampyng 
remembryd  me,  that  at  Caleys  he  tolde  me  that  he  purposed 
to  be  with  the  Duchesse  off  Norffolk,  my  Lady  and  yowrs. 
And  Edward  is  syke  and  semythe  nott  abydyng  ;  he  wolde  see 
what  shold  falle  off  thys  worlde  ;  and  so  I  am  as  he  that  seythe 
'  Come  hyddr  John,  my  man.'  And  as  happe  was  yisterday, 
Juddy  went  affor  to  Caleysward  ;  wherffor  I  am  nowe  ille 
purveyd,  whyche  ffor  owte  that  I  knowe  yit  is  lyke  to  kepe  me 
heer  thys  Wytsontyd."  Wherffor  iff  ye  knowe  any  lykly  men, 
and  ffayr  condycioned,  and  good  archers,  sende  them  to  me, 
thowe  it  be  iiij.  and  I  wyll  have  them,  and  they  shall  have  iiij. 
mrks  by  yer,  and  my  levere  \liverf\. 

He  maye  com  to  me  hyddr  to  the  Gott  [Gc^/],  or  yit  to 
Caleys  with  a  rialP  iff  he  be  wyse,  whyche  iff  nede  bee,  I 
wolde  that  Berker  toke  hym  to  come  uppe  with,  iff  it  be  suche 
one  as  ye  tryst. 

Item,  I  suppose  bothe  Pytte  and  Kothye  Plattyng  shall  goo 
ffrom  me  in  hast ;  I  wyll  never  cherysshe  knaves  soo  as  I  have 
don,  ffor  ther  sakys. 

Item,  I  praye  yow  sende  me  a  newe  vestment  off  whyght 
damaske  ffor  a  dekyne,  whyche  is  among  myn  other  geer  at 
Norwiche,  ffor  he  shall  ther  too  as  ye  woot  off :   I  wyll  make 

1  [From  Fenn,  li.  138.] 

2  Whitsunday  fell  on  the  6th  June  in  1473. 
^  A  royal,  a  gold  coin  of  10/.  value. 

187 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1473  ^"  armyng  doblett  off  it,  thow  I  sholde  an  other  tyme  gyff  a 
JUNE  3  longe  gown  of  velvett  ffor  another  vestment,  and  send  it  in 
all  hast  to  Hoxon  to  send  me. 

I  hopyd  to  have  been  verry  mery  at  Caleys  thys  Whytson- 
tyde,  and  am  weell  apparayled  and  apoyntyd,  saff  that  thes 
ffolks  ffayle  me  soo,  and  I  have  mater  ther  to  make  off  ryght 
excellent.  Som  man  wolde  have  hastyd  hym  to  Caleys  thowe 
he  had  hadd  no  better  erand,  and  som  men  thynke  it  wysdom 
and  profyght  to  be  theer  now  weell  owt  off  the  weye. 

Item,  as  ffor  the  Bysshop  ^  and  I,  we  bee  nerrer  to  a  poynt 
than  we  weer,  so  that  my  part  is  nowe  all  the  londes  in  Flegge 
Holly,  the  maner  off  Heylesdon,  Tolthorpe,  and  tenements  in 
Norwyche  and  Erlham,  excepte  Fayrechylds,  but  ffar weell 
Drayton  ;  the  Devyll  do  ytt  them. 

Item,  large  and  fferr  comynycacion  hathe  ben  bytwyen  Sir 
John  Fogge,  Ric.  Haulte,  ffor  ther  suster  and  me,  byffor 
Doctor  Wyntborne  and  ellys  wher,  so  that  I  am  in  better  hope 
than  I  was,  by  Seynt  Lawrens  '^  that  I  shall  have  a  delyveraunce. 

Item,  as  ffor  tydyngs  heer,  I  trow  ye  have  herde  yowr 
parte,  howe  that  the  Erie  off  Oxenfford  landyd  by  Seynt  Osyes 
in  Essexe,  the  xxviij.  daye  off  Maye,  saff  he  teryed  nott  longe, 
ffor  iff  he  had,  the  Erie  of  Essexe  ^  rod  to  hym  wardys,  and 
the  Lords  Denham  and  Durasse,  and  other  mor,  whyche  by 
lyklyod  sholde  have  dystrussyd  hym  ;  but  yit  hys  comyng 
savyd  Hogan  hys  hed,  and  hys  profesye  is  the  mor  belevyd 
ffor  he  seyde  that  thys  troble  sholde  begyn  in  Maye,  and  that 
the  Kynge  sholde  northwards,  and  that  the  Scotts  sholde  make 
us  werke  and  hym  batayle. 

Men  loke  afftr  they  wot  not  what,  but  men  by  barneys 
ffast  ;  the  Kyngs  menyall  men  and  the  Duke  off  Claraunces, 
ar  many  in  thys  town  ;  the  Lord  Ryverse  *  com  to  daye,  men 
seye  to  purveye  in  lyke  wyse. 

Item,  how  that  the  Cowntesse  off  Warwyk^  is  now  owt 

1  Waynflete,  Bishop  ofWinchester.  2   loth  of  August. 

•^  Henry  Bourchier,  Earl  of  Essex,  Lord  Treasurer. 

*  Anthony  Woodville,  Earl  Rivers,  beheaded  at  Pontefract,  1483. 

'■  Anne,  widow  of  Richard  Neville,  the  great  Earl  of  Warwick,  sister  and  heir  to 
Henry  Beauchamp,  Duke  of  Warwick,  and  mother  of  Isabel,  the  wife  of  George, 
Duke  of  Clarence. 

188 


EDWARD  IV 

off  Beweley  Seyntwarye,  and  Sir  James  Tyrell  convey th  hyr  1473 
northwarde,  men  seye  by  the  Kynges  assent,  wherto  som  men  June  3 
seye  that  the  Duke  off  Clarance  is  not  agreyd. 

Item,  men  seye  that  the  Erie  off  Oxenfford  is  abowt  the 
Ilde  off  Tenett  hoveryng,  som  seye  wyth  grett  companye,  and 
som  seye,  with  ffewe. 

No  mor,  but  God  kepe  yow. 

Wretyn  at  London  the  iij.  daye  off  June,  Anno  E.  iiij"  xiij°. 

John  Paston,  K. 

835 

ABSTRACT  1 

Norf.  and  SufF.  Deeds,  No.  67.     '  Relaxatio  Willielmi  Paston  facta  Will,    june  13 
Wainflet  et   aliis   de   toto   jure   sue   in    manerio  vocat'  Caldecots,   Akethorp, 
Spitlings,  Habland,  Broweston,  etc.     Jun.  13,  Edw.  iv.  13.' 

836 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  EDMUND  PASTON  2 

^  Edmond  Paston,  Esquyer,  a  Caleys  soyt  donne. 

BROTHER  Edmond,  1  grete  yow  weell,  letyng  yow  weete  july  5 
that  abowt  thys  daye  vij.  nyght  I  sende  yow  a  letter  by 
Nycholas  Bardeslee  a  sowdyer,  whyche  is  wont  woute  ^ 
to  be  at  border  [brother]  Perauntys,*  and  also  an  hoseclothe  ^  off 
blak  ffor  yow.  I  wende  that  ye  sholde  have  hadde  itt  within 
ij.  dayes,  but  I  am  afferde  that  he  deseyved  me. 

Item,  I  lete  yow  weet  that  Plattyng  is  comen  hyddr,  and 
he  seythe  that  ye  gaffe  hym  leve  to  ffetche  hys  geer  and  Pittys, 
and  that  is  hys  erande  hyddr  and  noon  other,  ner  he  thowt 
never  to  goo  ffro  me,  ner  he  wyll  nott  goo  ffro  me  as  he  seythe, 

1  [From  MS.  Index  in  Magd.  Coll.,  Oxford.] 

2  [From   Fenn,  ii,  146.]  3  go  in  Fenn. 

*  Fenn  suggests  a  fanciful  explanation  of  the  expression  *  border  Perauntys,'  pre- 
suming the  latter  word  not  to  be  a  proper  name  j  but  see  page  163. 
^  Cloth  for  hosen. 

189 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1473     wherffor,  I  praye  yow  sende  me  worde  off  hys  condycions,  and 
JULY  5    whyghe  ye  thynke  that  he  sholde  never  do  me  worshypp. 

He  seythe  also  that  he  and  Pytte  weer  at  the  takyng  off 
the  Esterlyngs,  and  that  he  was  in  the  Pakker^  and  Pytte  in  the 
Crystoffre.  I  praye  yow  sende  me  worde  howe  bothe  he  and 
Pytte  quytte  them,  by  the  report  off  some  indyfferent  trewe 
man  that  was  ther,  iff  they  quytte  them  weell,  I  wolde  love 
them  the  better,  wherffor  the  next  daye  afftr  the  syte  of  thys 
letter,  I  praye  yow  wryght  ageyn,  and  sende  it  by  the  next 
passage. 

Item,  I  sende  a  lytell  praty  boxe  herwith,  whyche  I  wolde 
that  Juddy  sholde  delyver  to  the  woman  that  he  wetyth  off, 
and  praye  hyr  to  take  it  to  the  man  that  she  wetyth  off ;  that 
is  to  seye,  as  moche  as  ye  knowe  all  well  i  now,  but  ye  maye 
nott  make  yow  wyse  in  no  wyse. 

Item,  I  praye  yow  sende  me  worde  as  ye  wer  wont  to  do 
off  heer  wellffar,  and  whether  I  weer  owt  and  other  inne  or 
nott  ;  and  whether  she  shall  fforsake  Caleys  as  sone  as  ye  sende 
me  worde  off  or  nott. 

By  God  I  wolde  be  with  yow  as  ffayne  as  yowr  selff,  and 
shall  be  in  hast  with  Godds  grace. 

Item,  as  ffor  my  brother  John,  I  hope  within  thys  monyth 
to  see  hym  in  Caleys,  ffor  by  lyklyhod  to  morowe  or  ellys  the 
next  daye  he  takyth  shyppe  at  Yarmothe,  and  goothe  to  Seynt 
James  ^  warde,  and  he  hathe  wretyn  to  me  that  he  wyll  come 
homwarde  by  Caleys. 

Item,  I  suppose  that  James  Songer  shall  come  with  me  to 
Caleys,  the  rather  ffor  yowr  sake. 

Item,  Mestresse  Elysabett  ffareth  well,  but  as  yit  Songer 
knoweth  nott  so  perffytly  all  that  ye  wolde  weet,  that  he  woll 
nott  wryght  to  yow  off  thees  ij.  dayes  tyll  he  knowe  moor,  but 
iff  she  hadde  ben  bolde,  and  durst  have  abydyn  styll  at  hyr 
gate,  and  spoken  with  me,  so  God  helpe  me,  she  had  hadd 
thys  same  that  I  sende  nowe  wher  ye  woot  off,  whyche  ye  shall 
see  woryn  heer  afftr,  itt  is  a  praty  ryban  with  praty  agletts '" 
and  goodlye. 

1  See  page  186,  Note.  5. 

2  Pendant  ornaments  of  metal,  like  tags  or  points,  etc. — F. 

190 


EDWARD  IV 

Make  yow  not  wyse  to  Juddy,  nowther  not  that  ye  wolde  1473 
weet  any  thynge,  fFor  I  maye  sey  to  yowe  at  hys  comyng  ovr,  July  5 
he  browt  goodly  geer  reasonablye. 

Item,  as  fFor  my  byll  ^  that  is  gylt,  I  wolde  it  weer  taken 
head  too ;  ther  is  one  in  the  town,  that  can  glaser  weell  i  nowe, 
as  I  herde  seye.  Also,  ther  is  on  comythe  every  markett  daye 
fFro  Seynt  Omerys  to  Caleys  and  he  bryngethe  dagers,  and 
ffetchyth  also,  he  may  have  it  with  hym,  and  brynge  it  ageyn 
the  next  markett  daye  ffor  xij<^.  or  xvj^.  at  the  most,  and  ellys 
late  it  be  weel  oylyd  and  kepte  tyll  I  come.     No  more. 

Wretyn  at  London  the  v.  daye  of  Julie,  Anno  E.  iiij"  xiij°. 


837 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON^ 

'To  my  ryght  wyrshypful  moodre^  Margret  Paston. 

RYGHT  wyrshypfuU  and  my  ryght  tendre  modre,  I  july  30 
recommaunde  me  to  yow,  besechyng  yow  of  yowr 
dayly  blessyng.  Please  it  yow  to  weet  that  I  herde 
not  from  yow  off  longe  tyme,  whyche  cawsythe  me  to  be 
ryght  hevye  ;  ner  at  the  last  tyme  that  I  sende  to  yow  in 
wryghtyng  I  hadde  from  yowr  selffe  noo  wryghtyng  ner 
answer  ageyne,  saff  by  Playter  one  tyme  and  by  my  brother 
one  other  tyme  ;  whyche  answer  off  Playter  was  noo  thyng 
acordyng  but  contraryaunt  to  other  wryghtyng  more  comfort- 
able that  he  hadde  sent  me  nott  longe  byffore  that  on  yowr 
behalve,  as  he  wrott,  whyche  God  amende.  Neverthelesse  to 
my  more  hevynesse,  I  herde  seye  that  ye  sholde  have  been 
passhyng  hevy  for  my  sake,  and  in  cheffe  for  that  I  was  lyke 
to  late  goo  the  maner  off  Sporle,  wherin  I  was  pytte  in  comfort 

^  A  warlike  instrument  of  offence. — F. 

2  [Add.  34,889,  f.  125.]  This  letter  appears  to  be  of  the  year  1473,  as  in  that 
year  Sir  John  Paston  writes  on  the  5th  July  that  he  hopes  to  be  in  Calais  within  a 
month  (No.  836).  Later  in  the  year  (22  Nov.)  he  writes  that  the  citations  here 
referred  to  were  not  ready  (No.  842,  p.  199).  The  date  is  further  confirmed  by 
what  is  said  of  the  manor  of  Sporle  (comp.  pp.  181,  182). 

191 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1473  ^o  have  had  relyffe  by  the  meanes  off  yow ;  and  syns  it  was 
JULY  30  tolde  me  that  iff  I  leete  it  goo  that  ye  wold  therfore  dys- 
avauntage  me  more  lond  in  tyme  to  come,  off  syche  as  by 
poscybylyte  myght  come  to  mee  of  yowris.  Uppon  whyche 
corage  my  grauntdame  ^  and  myn  oncle  ^  togedre  gaffe  me  an 
answer  on  hyr  part  moche  lyke,  and  so  my  fadre,  God  have 
hys  sowle,  leffte  me  scant  xl//.  londe  in  reste,  and  ye  leffe  me 
as  pleasythe  yow,  and  my  grauntdame  at  hyr  plesur  ;  thus 
may  I  have  lyttel  hope  off  the  worlde.  Neverthelesse  I  be- 
seche  yow  to  be  my  good  moodre,  how  so  ever  ye  do  with 
yowr  londe ;  for  I  feell  weell  that  iff  I  have  one  losse  I  am 
lyffe  [q.  like  ?]  therfor  to  have  three.  But  as  for  Sporle,  it 
shall  nott  goo  iff  I  maye,  ner  by  my  wyll ;  and  iff  ther  hadde 
been  performed  me  as  largelye  as  was  promysed  me  by  Playter, 
I  were  sewre  it  sholde  nott  have  goon,  nor  yit  sholde  nat  goo. 
Neverthelesse  iff  ye  and  all  my  frendys  and  yowris  in  Norffolk 
myght  have  lende  me  so  moche  monye  and  to  have  takyn  it 
uppe  in  V.  yere,  I  suppose  they  sholde  peraventure  have  ben 
payed  ageyn  in  a  yer  or  ij.  iff  I  had  solde  any  woode.  Never- 
thelesse, plese  yow  to  weet  that  I  have  provyd  my  fadres  wyll 
and  testement,  wherin  I  maye  nowt  dele  on  to  the  tyme  that 
al!  the  executoris  have  reffused  ;  wherffor  ther  most  be  sende 
sitatacions  (^sic)  to  yow  and  alle  other  that  weer  namyd  my 
fadris  executoris.  Wherin  iff  ye  list  not  to  take  admynystra- 
cion,  as  I  woot  well  ye  woll  nott  off  olde,  ye  most  than  make 
a  proctor  that  must,  on  yowr  behalve,  byffor  my  Lorde  of 
Canterbury,  with  a  sufficiaunt  warant  and  autoryte,  undre  a 
notarys  syngne  ther  in  the  corte,  reffuse  to  take  admynestra- 
cion.  And  this  instrument  and  aultoryte  I  beseche  yow  maye 
be  redy  and  att  London  by  the  fyrst  daye  of  the  terme  ;  and 
iff  yow  be  not  aqueynted  with  none  suche  at  London,  iff  it 
please  yowe  to  take  and  avowe  for  your  proctor  and  sende 
hym  auctoryte,  on  \_onel^  Master  John  Halsnothe  whyche  was  a 
clerke  off  Master  Robert  Centis^  and  was  so  trusty  to  my 
fadre,  God  have  hys  sowle,  and  to  sende  me  a  letter  off  yowre 

1  Agnes  Paston.  2  William  Paston. 

3  Robert  Kent,  who  had  been  John  Paston  the  father's  proctor  in  the  Court  of 
Archers.     See  vol.  iv.  pp.  243,  244. 

192 


EDWARD  IV 

wylle  ther  in,  I  undertake  that  he  shall  not  do  but  as  ye  sende     1473 
me  worde.     Plese  it   yow   to   gyff  credence  to  Juddy  herin.    July  30 
No  more  to  you  att  thys  tyme,  but  Jhesu  have  yow  in  Hys 
kepyng.     Wretyn  att  Caleys,  the  last  daye  saff  one  off  Julie. — 
Yowr  sone,  J.  P.,  K. 

838 

MARTIN  RONDELLE  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON^ 

Monseigneur  Jehan  Paston^  chevalier  d' Engleterre. 

MON  treschier  et  honnore  seigneur,  je  me  recomande  a  aug.  28 
vous  outant  que  je  puis  ne  scay.  Et  vous  plaise 
savoir  que  je  ay  oy  novelles  de  vous  par  ung  de  vo 
marchans  de  Calais  touchant  unne  armura  de  unna  sella  que  je 
vous  doy,  et  de  una  barbuta,  laquelle  est  en  diferansce  entre 
vous  et  moy,  de  laquelle  je  vous  ay  aultre  foix  dist  que  je 
estoie  contant  de  fere  toute  rexon  [raisonj,  et  en  quore  le 
vous  dige  prexentement  que  je  suis  prest  de  fer  tout  chou 
qu'il  apartient  en  tout  rexon,  set  \_c'esf\  asavoir  de  la  barbute  et 
de  I'armura  de  sella.  D'aultre  chiox  ne  vous  suis  en  riens 
tenut,  forque  en  toute  les  chiox  que  me  seroint  posible  de 
faire  pour  I'amour  de  vous  a  vostre  honneur  et  a  vostre  profit, 
je  suis  tout  jour  prest  a  vostre  comendement. 

Item,  en  houltre,  je  ay  entendut  que  vous  voulles  avoir 
unng  harnax  complet.  Com  je  prins  vostra  mexure  derniere- 
ment  quant  vous  fustes  en  ceste  ville  de  Bruges,  saichies  que 
je  ay  en  quor  vostre  mexure  de  toutes  lez  piesces  ;  pour  quoy, 
se  il  vous  plaist  que  je  la  vous  fasa,  je  la  vous  faray  de  bon 
ceur,  et  tout  cella  que  il  vous  plaira  avoir  fait  ;  et  au  regard 
du  pris,  je  faray  tellement  que  vous  seres  content  de  moy 
pour  tant  quant  il  vous  plaira  lesiem  savoir  queles  piesses  que 
vous  voles  avoir,  et  la  faisson  et  le  jour  que  vous  la  voles  avoir 
par  quelcun  aqui  je  puis  in  chauder  en  nom  de  vous,  et  qui 
me  ballia  argant  de  sus,  je  feray  si  bien  que  se  Dieu  plaist 
vous  vous  loeres   de   moy.      Aultre   chiox   ne   vous   say  que 

1   [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.] 
VOL.  V. N  193 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1473     i"nander  pour  le  prexent,  senon  que  je  prie  a  Dieu  que  il  vous 
AUG.  28    (ioint  ce  que  vostre  ceur  desir. 

Escript  a  Bruges,  le  xxviij.  jour  de  Ahoust,  Fan  Ixxiij. 

Le  tout  vostre  serviteur, 

Martin   Rondelle, 

Armurier  de  Monsire  le 

Bastart  de  Bourgogne. 

Endorsed — Par  Martyne  Rowndell,  armorer  de  Bruggys.     Anno  E.  iiij''  xiij°. 


839 

LORD  HASTINGS  TO  SIR  JOHN  OF  MIDDLETON 
AND  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 

'To  my  right  hertily  beloved  frends  and  felaws^  Sir  John  of 
Middelton^  and  Sir  John  Pasion,  Knights. 

SEPT.  16      \    FTER  herty  recommendacion,  I  thank  you  of  the  gode 
/-%       attendance  that  ye  yeve  unto  the   Kings   counsail  at 
■^  Calais  ;  and  the  gode  and  efFectuelle  devoires  that  ye 

putte  you  in  to  assiste  my  depute  Sir  John  Scot,  in  alle  suche 
things  as  mowe  concerne  the  saufgarde  of  my  charge  there. 
Leting  you  wite,  that  if  ther  be  any  thing  that  I  can  and  may 
do  for  you,  I  shal  with  right  gode  wil  performe  it  to  my 
power. 

And  I  preye  you  to  recommaunde  me  to  my  Lady 
Howard,^  my  Lady  Bourgchier,^  and  all  othre  ladies  and 
gentilwomen  of  the  saide  towne.  And  in  likewise  to  the 
Mayre,  Lieutenant,  and  felaship  of  the  staple  ;  my  felaws  the 
souldeours,  and  all  othre  suche  as  ye  shal  seme  gode.  And 
oure  Lord  sende  you  your  desirs. 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  152.]  This  letter,  Fenn  tells  us,  is  endorsed  in  a  hand  of  the 
time,  '  E.  (?)  Hastyngs,  Anno  xiij".,'  showing  that  it  was  written  in  the  thirteenth  year 
of  Edward  iv. 

2  Margaret,  wife  of  Sir  John  Howard,  Lord  Howard,  and  afterwards  Duke  of 
Norfolk.  She  was  daughter  of  Sir  John  Chedworth,  Knight,  and  died  in  1490, 
5  Hen.  VII. 

3  Lady  Bourchier  was  probably  the  wife  of  a  son  of  Sir  John  Bourchier,  Lord 
Berners. 

194 


EDWARD  IV 

Writen  at  Notyngham,  the  xvj.  day  of  Septembre.  ^473 

Sir  Joh  Paston,  I  pray  you  to  yeve  credens  to  suche  thing  se^t.  i6 

as  my  depute  shall  shew  you  fro  me,  and  conforme  you  to 

the  same. 

Your  felaw,  Hastyngs. 

840 

NOTE 

On  the  Close  Roll  13  Edw.  iv.  m.  5,  is  an  indenture  tripartite  bearing  nov.  i 
date  I  Nov.,  13  Edw.  iv.,  between  Thomas  Byllyng,  Chief-Justice,  and  others, 
including  William  Paston  on  the  one  part ;  Jane  Ingaldesthorp,  late  wife  of 
Edmund  Ingaldesthorp,  Knight,  William  Norys,  Knt.,  and  Isabel,  Marquesse 
Montague,  his  wife,  of  the  second  part ;  and  William  Parker,  citizen  and  tailor, 
London,  of  the  third  part. 

841 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  John  Paston^  Esquier^  at  Norwych^  be  thys  delyvered. 

WYRSHYPFULL  and  well  belovyd  brother,  I  comand  nov.  6 
me  to  yow,  letyng  yow  weet  that  the  worlde  semyth 
qweysye  heer  ;  ffor  the  most  part  that  be  abowt  the 
Kyng  have  sende  hyddr  ffor  ther  barneys,  and  it  [is]  seyd  ffor 
serteyn,  that  the  Duke  off  Clarance  makyth  hym  bygge  in 
that  he  kan,  schewyng  as  he  wolde  but  dele  with  the  Duke 
of  Glowcester  ;  but  the  Kyng  ententyth,  in  eschyewying  all 
inconvenyents,  to  be  as  bygge  as  they  bothe,  and  to  be  a 
styffeler  atweyn  them ;  and  som  men  thynke  that  undre  thys 
ther  sholde  be  som  other  thynge  entendyd,  and  som  treason 
conspyred  ;  so  what  shall  falle,  can  I  nott  seye. 

Item,  it  is  seyde  that  yisterdaye  ij.  passagers  off  Dovr  wer 
takyn ;  I  ffer  that  iff  Juddy  had  noon  hasty  passage,  so  that 
iff  he  passyd  nott  on  Sondaye  or  Mondaye,  that  he  is  taken, 
and  som  geer  off  myn,  that  I  wolde  not  for  xx//. 

^  [From  Fenn,  ii.  126.]     This  letter  is  misdated  in  Fenn  as  of  the  15th  April. 
St.  Leonard's  Day  is  the  6th  November. 

195 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1473  I  hope  and  purpose  to  goo  to  Caleys  warde  on  Sondaye 

NOV.  6    or  Mondaye  or  nyghe  bye,  ffor  1  am   nott  accompanyed  to 

do  any  servyse  heer  ;  wherfFor  it  wer  better  ffor  me  to  be  owt 

off  syght.^ 

Item,  Sprynge,  that  wayten  on  my  ffadre  when  he  was  in 
Jowel  hous  l^gaol  house],  whom  my  ffadre  at  hys  dyeng  besett 
xb.  he  cryethe  evyr  on  me  ffor  it,  and  in  weye  off  almess,  and 
he  wolde  be  easyd,  thow  it  wer  but  xxj,  or  xj.  ;  wherffor  he 
hathe  wretyn  to  my  modr,  and  most  have  an  answer  ageyn  ; 
I  wolde  that  my  moodr  sende  hym,  as  thoghe  she  lende  hym 
som  whatt,  and  he  woll  be  pleasyd,  and  ellys  he  can  seye  as 
shrewdely  as  any  man  in  Ingelonde. 

Item,  the  Kynge  hathe  sent  ffor  hys  Great  Seall  ;  some 
seye  we  shall  have  a  newe  Chauncelor,  but  som  thynke  that 
the  Kynge  dothe  as  he  dyde  at  the  last  ffeldys,  he  wyll  have 
the  Seall  with  hym  ;  but  thys  daye  Doctor  Morton,  Master 
off  the  Rollys,  rydethe  to  the  Kynge,  and  berythe  the  Sease 
[Seals']  with  hym. 

Item,  I  had  never  mor  nede  off  mony  than  now ;  wherffor 
Fastolffes  v.  mrks  and  the  mony  off  Master  John  Smythe 
wolde  make  me  hoU,  &c. 

Wretyn  on  Seynt  Lenards  Daye,  Anno  R.  R.  E.  iiij''  xiij°. 

Item,  sende  me  my  vestment  acordyng  to  the  letter  I  sent 
yow  by  Symond  Dam,  in  all  hast.  J.  P.,  K. 

842 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON* 

To  John  Paston,  Esquyer,  be  thys  delyvered. 

NOV.  2  2      I  'X  YGHT    wyrshypfull     and    hertyly    belovyd    brother,    I 

1^       comand    me    to    yow,    letyng    you    wet    that    I    re- 

ceyvyd   a  letter   that    come   from   yow,  wretyn  circa 

viij.  Mychaelys,^  wherin   ye  leet  me  weet  off  the   decesse  off 

1  Here  follow  some  money  transactions  relative  to  a  Doctor  Pykenham,  his  mother, 
and  others. 

■'  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.] 

3  i.e.  circa  octabas  Mic/iaelts — about  the  Octaves  of  Michaelmas,  or  6th  October. 

196 


EDWARD  IV 

Syr  James,  and  that  my  moodre  is  in  purpose  to  be  at  Nor-  1473 
wyche,  and  I  am  ryght  glad  that  sche  wyll  now  doo  somwhat  ^°^-  ^^ 
by  yowr  advyce  ;  wherfFor  be  war  fro  hense  forthe  that  noo 
suche  felawe  crepe  in  be  twyen  hyr  and  yow,  and  iff  ye  lyst  to 
take  a  lytell  labore,  ye  may  lyff  ryght  well,  and  she  pleasyd. 
It  is  as  good  that  ye  ryde  with  a  cople  off  horse  at  hyr  cost  as 
Syr  James  or  Richard  Calle. 

Ye  sende  me  worde  also  that  she  in  noo  wyse  wyll  purveye 
thyr  Qli.  for  the  redemyng  off  Sporle.  Late  it  goo.  As 
towchyng  that  mater,  John  Osbern  tolde  me  that  he  comonyd 
with  yow  at  Sporle  of  that  mater ;  ferr  he  devysed  that 
Kokett,  or  suche  an  other  man,  sholde,  to  have  it  the  better 
cheppe,  ItjQ  owt  the  valewe  off  vj.  yere  for  to  have  it  vij. 
yere,  wherto  I  wolde  agre  ;  and  for  Goddys  sake,  if  thatt 
maye  be  browt  abowt,  late  it  be  doon.  As  ye  woot  of,  it  is 
laten  for  xxij/z.  be  yere,  yit  the  fermor  graunt  but  xxj. ;  but 
to  Kokett  it  wolde  be  worthe  xxv//.,  yea  and  better.  Never- 
thelesse,  if  Kokett  wyll  delyver  y'^'H.,  I  wolde  he  had  it  for 
vij.  yeer,  with  thys  that  my  moodre  be  agreable  to  the  same, 
by  cawse  of  th'entresse  that  she  hathe  for  my  brother  William, 
whyche  shall  nott  be  off  age  thys  vij.  yeer  ;  neverthelesse,  as 
ye  know  myn  olde  entent,  I  purpose  to  purvey  for  hym  in  an 
other  plase  better  than  theer ;  whyche  graunte  off  my  moodre 
I  praye  yow  to  be  my  solycytor  in,  whyche  [and]  it  be  browt 
abowt,  Sporle  shall  be  in  as  goode  case  as  evyr  he  was. 

John  Osbern  willyd  me  to  make  yow  a  sufficiaunt  waraunt 
to  selle  and  felle  wood  at  Sporle,  whyche  I  remembre  ye  have 
in  as  ample  forme  as  can  be  ;  neverthelesse  iff  thys  meane 
above  wretyn  off  letyng  to  ferme  maye  be  hadde,  it  shall,  I 
hope,  nat  nede  to  felle  ner  selle  moche.  But  I  remytte  that 
geer  to  yowr  dyscrescion,  but  iff  ye  have  suche  comforte,  I 
praye  yow  sende  me  worde.  I  maye  seye  to  yow,  John 
Osbern  flateryd  me,  for  he  wolde  have  borowyd  mony  off  me. 

Item,  in  retaylyng  of  woode  theer,  it  weer  harde  to  tryst 
hym ;  he  is  nedye.  If  Kokett,  or  whoo  so  evyr  had  that 
maner  to  ferme  for  vij.  yere,  and  payd  therffor  but  v'f-/L^  he 
sholde,  to  lete  it  ageyn,  wynne  xxxvj//.,  whyche  we[re]  moche; 
wherffor,  iff  it  myght  bee,  yt  wer  more  resenable  vj'''"'  vij//.  to 

197 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1 4-7  3    be  reseyvyd,  and  yit  is  ther  lost  xxixA'.,  or  ellys  iff  ye  take  lesse 
NOV.  22    mony  and  fewer  yerys,  so   it   be   aftre   the   rate,  so  ther  be 
purveyd  Cii.  at  the  lest ;  send  worde. 

Item,  ye  wroot  that  lyke  a  trewe  man  ye  sende  me  xviijj. 
by  Richarde  Radle.  Ye  weer  to  trewe  ;  but  he  semys  to  be  a 
false  shrewe,  for  he  browt  me  noon  yitt.  Whethyr  he  be  owt 
of  town  or  nott,  kan  I  nott  seye. 

Ye  prayed  me  also  to  sende  yow  tydynges  how  I  spedde  in 
my  materis,  and  in  cheff  of  Mestresse  Anne  Hault.  I  have 
answer  ageyn  fro  Roome  that  there  is  the  welle  of  grace  and 
salve  sufficiaunt  for  suche  a  soore,  and  that  I  may  be  dyspencyd 
with  ;  neverthelesse  my  proctore  there  axith  a  m'-  docatys,  as 
he  demythe.  But  Master  Lacy,  another  Rome  renner  heer, 
whyche  knowyth  my  seyde  proctor  theer,  as  he  seythe,  as 
weell  as  Bernard  knewe  hys  sheeld,  seythe  that  he  menyth  but 
an  C.  docates  or  CC.  at  the  most ;  wherffor  afftre  thys  comythe 
moor.  He  wrote  to  me  also,  quod  Papa  hoc  facit  hodiernis  diebus 
multociens. 

Item,  as  towchyng  Caster,  I  tryst  to  God  that  ye  shall  be 
in  it  to  myn  use  or  Crystmesse  be  past. 

Item,  yowr  ost  Brygham  recomand  hym  to  yow,  and  when 
he  and  I  rekenyd,  I  gave  hym  ij.  noblis  for  yowr  borde,  whyll 
ye  weer  theer  in  hys  absence  ;  but  in  feythe  he  wolde,  for 
nowth  that  I  kowde  doo,  take  ]d.  Wherffor  ye  most  thanke 
hym  or  charge  me  to  thanke  hym  on  yowr  behalve  in  some 
nexte  epystyll  that  ye  wryght  to  me  to  Caleys.  He  leete  me 
weet  that  he  wolde  do  moor  for  yow  than  soo. 

Item,  my  Lady  Bowgcher  was  almost  deed,  but  she  ys 
amendyd.      I  trowe  they  come  in  to  Norffolk. 

Item,  as  for  W.  Berker,  I  heer  no  worde  from  hym.  I 
praye  yow  comon  with  Berney  ther  in,  he  knoweth  myn 
conceyt ;  and  also  I  praye  yow  hast  Berney  ageyn.  I  wold  not 
that  he  played  the  fooll,  ner  wastyd  hys  tyme  ner  hys  sylver. 

Item,  as  for  the  brace  of  growndes  \_greyhounds],  or  one 
verry  goode,  or  in  especiall  the  blak  of  Germynes,  I  can 
nott  seye  but  ye  be  a  trewe  man,  but  William  Mylsent 
isse  a  false  shrewe,  so  mote  I  thee,  and  I  trow  hys  master 
ys  too. 
198 


EDWARD  IV 

Item,  I  most  have  myn  instrumentes  hydder,  whyche  are  in     1473 
the  chyst  in  my  chambre  at  Norwyche,  whyche  I  praye  yow   nov.  22 
and  Berney  to  gedre  joyntly,  but  natt  severally,  to  trusse  in  a 
pedde/  and  sende  them  me  hyddre  in  hast,  and  a  byll  ther  in 
how  many  peces.     Thys  most  be  had  to  avoyde  idelnesse  at 
Caleys. 

Item,  I  preye  yow  take  heed  among  thatt  my  stufFe  take 
noon  harme,  ner  that  myn  evydence,  wher  ye  wott  of,  be  owt 
of  joperte. 

Item,  I  praye  yow  doo  for  Berneye  as  ye  kan,  so  that  he 
maye  be  in  sewerte  for  hys  annywyte,  and  that  it  be  nott 
costious  fro  hense  forthe  to  hym  any  mor  to  come,  or  sende 
for  it.     I  pray  yow  wynne  yowr  sporys  in  hys  mater. 

Item,  I  purposed  to  have  sent  heer  with  the  testament 
off  my  fadre  and  the  scytacions  to  my  moodre  to  yow  and 
Arblaster;  but  they  be  nott  redy.  Within  ij.  dayes  aftre 
the  comyng  of  thys,  I  suppose  they  shall  be  with  yow,  and 
than  I  shall  wryght  mor  to  yow. 

As  for  other  tydynges,  I  trust  to  God  thatt  the  ij.  Dukes 
of  Clarans  and  Glowcester  shall  be  sette  att  one  by  the  adward 
off  the  Kyng. 

Item,  I  hope  by  the  means  of  the  Duke  of  Glowcester  that 
my  Lord  Archebyshop  ^  shall  come  home. 

Item,  as  towchyng  my  sustre  Anne,^  I  undrestand  she 
hathe  bene  passyng  seek  ;  but  I  wende  that  she  had  ben 
weddyd.  As  for  Yelverton,  he  seyde  but  late  that  he  wold 
have  hyr,  iff  she  had  hyr  mony,  and  ellis  nott  ;  wherffor  me 
thynkyth  that  they  be  nott  verry  sewre.  But,  amonge  alle 
other  thynges,  I  praye  yow  be  ware  that  the  olde  love  of 
Pampyng  renewe  natt.  He  is  nowe  fro  me  ;  I  wott  nat  what 
he  woll  doo. 

No  more.  Wretyn  at  London,  the  xxij.  daye  of  Novembre 
Anno  R.  R.  E.  iiij''  xiij°.  John  Paston,  Kt. 

1  A  kind  of  basket. 

^  George  Neville,  Archbishop  of  York,  though  formerly  pardoned,  had  been 
accused  of  holding  correspondence  with  the  Earl  of  Oxford,  for  which  he  was  im- 
prisoned at  Guines. 

3  Anne  Paston  married  William  Yelverton,  grandson  of  Sir  William  Yelverton, 
the  Judge. 

199 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

843 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

T*o  John  Paston^  Esquier. 

1473  X^  YGHT  wyrshypfull  and  well  belovyd  brother,  I  re- 
Nov.  25  1-%^  comaund  me  to  yow,  letyng  yow  weet  that  I  sende 
^  ^  yow  her  with  j.  sitacion,  where  in  ben  my  moodre 
and  yee,  wherofF  I  praye  yow  that  I  maye  have  hasty  answeer. 
The  effecte  theroff  is  no  moor,  but  ye  bothe  most  sende  answer, 
and  make  yow  a  proctor  heer,  and  that  most  come  hyddre 
ondre  a  notaryes  syngne,  afFermyng  that  ye  make  suche  a  man, 
Master  John  Halsnothe,  or  ellis,  yf  ye  will  do  the  cost,  to 
sende  some  other  hyddre  ;  yowr  proctor  to  take  admynystra- 
cion  or  to  reffuse,  and  what  so  he  dothe,  ye  to  holde  it  for 
ferme  and  stable.  Than  most  my  moodre  and  ye  wryght  a 
lettre,  undre  my  moodre  seall  and  yowr  syngne  manuell,  to 
me  and  Master  John  Halsnothe  in  thys  forme  : — '  We  gret 
yow  well,  letyng  yow  weet  that  we  have  made  yow.  Master 
John  Halsnothe,  our  proctor  in  the  testament  of  John  Fasten, 
husband  and  fadre  to  yow,  wherin  we  wyll  that  on  owr  be- 
halff  ye  refuse  the  admynestracion  of  the  seyde  testament. 
And  thys  wryghtyng  is  to  yow  warantt  and  dyscharge,  and 
also  the  verry  wyll  of  usse.'  Thys  most  we  have  for  owr 
dyscharge. 

Item,  I  pray  yow  take  good  hedde  to  my  soster  Anne,  lesse 
the  old  love  atwyen  hyr  and  Pampyng  renewe. 

Item,  I  pray  yow  sende  me  worde  howe  my  moodre  is 
dysposyd  to  hyr  wardes,  and  iffe  so  weer  that  a  good  mariage 
myght  be  had,  what  she  wolde  depart  with. 

Item,  I  praye  yow  that  ye  remembre  hyr  for  the  tombe  off 
my  fadr  at  Bromholme,  and  also  the  chapell  at  Mauteby,  and 
sende  me  worde  how  she  is  dysposyd  her  in. 

^  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  The  year  in  which  this  letter  was  written  is  clearly 
shown,  partly  by  the  allusions  made  in  it  to  several  matters  mentioned  in  previous 
letters,  and  more  especially  by  what  is  said  of  the  Earl  of  Oxford.  That  nobleman 
was  besieged  in  St.  Michael's  Mount,  Cornwall,  by  Sir  Henry  Bodrugan  during 
October  and  November  1473. 

200 


EDWARD  IV 

Item,  iff  I  have  Caster  ageyn,  whethyr  she  wolle  dwelle     i473 
ther  or  nott,  and  I  wyll  fynde  hyr  a  prest  towardes  at  my  charge,    ^o^*  ^S 
and  geve  hyr  the  dovehowse  and  other  comodytes  ther  ;  and 
if  any  horsekeper  on  myn  lye  ther,  I  wolle  paye  for  hys  horde 
also,  as  weell  as  for  the  prestes. 

Item,  iff  my  modre  sholde  have  a  new  prest,  I  thynk  that 
my  brother  Syr  J.  Goos  weer  a  metly  man  to  be  ther.  He 
wolde  also  doo,  as  ye  wolde  have  hym  nowe,  ber  the  cuppe 
evyn,  as  What-calle-ye-hym  seyde  to  Aslake. 

Be  war  of  Myneres  fro  hense  forthe,  and  sende  me  worde 
how  ye  trist  Doctor  Pykenham.  I  wolde,  if  he  wolde  doo 
owght  for  my  moodre,  that  he  hastyd  the  soner  to  paye  me 
the  C/i.y  so  that  I  myght  pledge  owt  Sporle. 

Item,  as  for  other  tydynges,  the  Erie  of  Oxenforthe  is 
stille  besegyd.  Neverthelesse,  onys  he  issued  owt,  and  toke  a 
jentylman,  and  hant  [^draggea']  hym  within  ;  but  now  off  late 
he  was  besye,  and  one  espyed  hym,  and  shott  at  hym  and 
strake  in  the  verry  fase  with  an  arowe.  I  sye  thys  daye  the 
same  man,  and  theere  I  leef  hym. 

Iff  Arblaster  come  to  yow,  ye  maye  see  hys  letter  sente  to 
hym  by  me,  wherin  I  have  wretyn  that  he  scholde  take  yowr 
advyce  ;  but  I  praye  you,  above  all  thynges,  that  me  make 
hast  so  that  I  heer  from  yow  ageyn  by  thys  day  vij.  nyght. 

At  London,  the  xxv.  daye  of  Novembre. 

John  Paston,  K. 

844 

THE  TENANTS  OF  SPORLE  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  oure  specyall  good  lord  and  mayster^  Syr  John  Paston^ 
Knyghi,  be  this  delyvered  in  hast. 

RIGHT  worchepfuU  and  oure  specyall  good  mayster  and  Date 

loord,  after  our  dewe  recomendacion  with  owre  servyce.  uncer- 

Please  it  yow  to  knowe  that  we  arn  grevously  troubled,  tain 
and  not  lyke  to  kepe  oure  tenourys,  the  whiche  we  holde  of 

1  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  The  date  of  this  letter  is  very  uncertain,  but  as  a 
good  deal  is  said  about  this  time  of  the  manor  and  wood  of  Sporle,  we  insert  it  here 
for  convenience. 

201 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

Date  you,  but  yf  ye  helpe  us  ;  for  we  wer  bete  at  the  boordourys 
uncer-  syde,  and  afterwarde  our  servauntes  wer  bete  at  the  plowe  in 
tain  Spoorle  felde,  and  somme  of  them  be  lyke  to  dey.  And  we 
redyn  to  Maister  Shereve  and  to  Mayster  Southwell  for 
remedye,  and  thei  advysed  us  to  ryde  to  Mayster  Wyngfeld  ; 
and  thenne  we  understode  that  Mayster  Wyngfeld  was  reden 
to  London,  &c.  And  so  we  stonden  withoute  remedye,  and 
in  grete  doute  ot  our  lyves,  and  losse  of  our  goodys.  Wher- 
for  we  beseche  you  to  socoure  us  accordyng  to  your  right  and 
owres.  And  ellys  we  kan  nott  abyde  it,  &c.  Cryst  kepe 
your  good  lordshep. 

Be  your  poore  tenauntes 
of  Spoorle, 


845 

NOTE 

1474  ■'■''  appears  by   the   Early  Chancery  Proceedings  printed  by  the   Record 

FEB.  0  Commission  (vol.  i.  p.  xc),  that  a  decree  was  given  in  Chancery  in  Hilary 
term,  13  Edw.  iv.  compelling  William  Paston  and  other  trustees  to  fulfil  a 
covenant  between  Richard,  Duke  of  Gloucester  and  Elizabeth,  Countess  of 
Oxford.  On  the  Close  Roll,  13  Edw.  iv.  memb.  i,  is  a  release  by  William, 
Bishop  of  Ely,  Sir  Thomas  Montgomery,  John  Wentworth,  elk.,  William 
Paston,  Esq.,  Roger  Townesend  and  Jas.  Arblaster  to  Richard,  Duke  of 
Gloucester,  of  all  their  right  in  Ocle  Magna  and  Parva,  etc.,  in  Essex,  which 
they  have  by  enfeoffment  of  Eliz.,  Countess  of  Oxford,  and  in  other  manors  in 
Norfolk  and  Suffolk  which  they  lately  had  of  the  gift  of  the  same.  This 
release  is  dated  9th  Feb.  1 3  Edw.  iv.,  and  was  acknowledged  in  Chancery  on 
the  iith  Feb.  Below  it  are  enrolled  three  other  deeds  by  the  Countess  and 
her  feoffees  to  the  Duke,  dated  9th  June,  12  Edw.  iv.,  and  acknowledged  in 
Chancery,  25th  June,  14  Edw.  iv. 


202 


EDWARD  IV 

846 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  1 

Mestresse  Margrett  Pasion^  at  Norwyche. 

RYGHT  honorable  and  most  tendr  good  moodr,   I  re-     1474 
comand  me  to  yowe,  besechyng  yow  to  have,  as  my    feb.  20 
tryst  is  that  I  have,  yowr  dayly  blessyng  ;  and  thanke 
yow  off  yowr  good  moderhood,  kyndenesse,  cheer,  charge,  and 
costes,  whyche  I  had,  and  putte  yow  to,  att  my  last  beyng  with 
yow,  whyche  God  gyffe  me  grace  her  afftr  to  deserve  ! 

Please  it  yow  to  weet,  that  I  thynge  longe  that  I  heer  nott 
ffrom  yow  or  ffrom  Pekok  yowr  servaunt,  ffor  the  knowlege 
howe  he  hathe  doon  in  the  sale  off  my  fferme  barlye,  ner  whatt 
is  made  theroff ;  wherffor  I  beseche  yowe,  if  it  be  not  answeryd 
by  that  tyme  that  thys  bylle  comythe  to  yowe,  to  hast  hym 
and  itt  hyddre  wards ;  ffor  iff  that  had  nott  taryed  me,  I  deme 
I  had  been  at  Caleys  by  thys  daye  ;  ffor  it  is  soo,  as  men  seye, 
that  the  Frense  Kynge  with  a  gret  hoste  is  at  Amyans,  but 
iij'"^-  myle  from  Caleys  ;  and  iff  he,  or  hys,  roode  by  ffor  Caleys, 
and  I  nott  theer,  I  wolde  be  sorye. 

Item,  men  seye  that  the  Erie  of  Oxenfford  hathe  ben  con- 
streynyd  to  sewe  ffor  hys  pardon  only  off  hys  lyffe  ;  and  hys 
body,  goodes,  londes,  with  all  the  remenaunt,  at  the  Kynges 
wyll,  and  soo  sholde  in  all  haste  nowe  come  in  to  the  Kyng  ; 
and  some  men  seye  that  he  is  goon  owt  off  the  Mounte,^  men 
wot  not  to  what  plase,  and  yit  lefte  a  greet  garnyson  theer, 
weell  ffornysshyd  in  vytayll,  and  all  other  thynge. 

Item,  as  ffor  the  havyng  ageyn  off  Castre,  I  trust  to  have 
good  tydyngs  theroff  hastelye. 

Item,  my  brother  John  ffarethe  weell,  and  hathe  doon 
ryght  delygentlye  in  my  cosyn  Elizabet  Berneys  mater,  wheroff 
hastely  I  trust  he  shall  sende  hyr  tydyngs  that  schall  please 
hyr  ;  and  as  to  morow  he  purposyth  to  take  hys  jurneye  to 
Walys  warde  to  the  Lorde  Ryverse.  No  mor  at  thys  tyme, 
but  Jeswe  have  yow  in  Hys  kepyng. 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  154.]  2  st.  Michaers  Mount  in  Cornwall. 

203 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1474  Wretyn  at  London  the  xx.  daye  off  Feverer,  Anno  E.  iiij" 

FEB.  20    xiij°. 

Yowr  sone,  J.  Paston,  K. 


847 
LORD  HASTINGS  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

'To  my  right  trusty  and  welbeloved  servaunt, 
John  Paston^  Squier. 

i474(r)  TTOHN  PASTON,  I  recommaunde  me  unto  you.  And 
APRIL  26  I  whereas  I  appohited  and  desired  you  to  goo  over  unto 
^  Guysnes  to  yeve  youre  attendaunce  and  assistaunce  upon 
my  brother  Sir  Rauf  Hastings  in  all  suche  things  as  concerne 
the  suretie  and  defense  of  the  Castell  of  Guysnes  during  his 
infirmyties  ;  it  is  shewed  unto  me  that  ye  have  full  truely  and 
diligently  acquyted  you  unto  my  saide  brother,  in  all  his 
besynesses  sithe  your  comyng  thider.  Whereof  I  thanke  you 
hertly.  And  as  I  conceive  to  my  grete  comfort  and  gladnesse, 
my  saide  brother  is  wele  recovered  and  amended,  thanked  be 
God.  And  soo  I  truste  he  may  nowe  spare  you.  Wherupon 
I  have  writen  unto  him,  if  he  may  soo  doo,  to  licence  you  to 
come  over  unto  me  ayen.  Wherefore  I  woU  and  desire  you, 
th'assent  of  my  saide  brother  had,  to  dispose  you  to  come  over 
in  all  goodly  haste,  as  well  for  suche  grete  maters,  as  I  fele  by 
youre  ffrends,  ye  have  to  doo  here,  as  to  yeve  youre  attendaunce 
upon  me.  And  your  retourne  ye  shall  be  to  my  welcome. 
From  London,  the  xxvj.  day  of  Avrill. 
^  I  pray  you  in  no  wise  to  depart  as  yet  without  my  brother 
Roaf  asent  and  agrement ;  and  recommaund  me  to  my  syster, 
all  my  nieces,  to  the  constabyll,  and  to  all  Ryves  [reeves']. 

Your  tru  frend,  Hastynges. 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  296.]  I  cannot  discover  in  what  year  John  Paston  could  have 
been  staying  at  Guisnes  during  the  month  of  April  at  the  request  of  Lord  Hastings, 
unless  it  was  in  the  year  14.74.  There  seems  no  other  probable  year  in  which  we 
have  not  distinct  evidence  of  his  being  elsewhere. 

2  This  postscript  is  in  the  writer's  own  hand,  the  preceding  part  of  the  letter  being 
in  that  of  a  clerk.     A  fac-simile  of  the  postscript  is  given  by  Fenn. 

204 


EDWARD  IV 


848 

SIR  RALPH  HASTINGS  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 

'To  my  feithful  lovyng  gode  cousyn^  Johan  Paston. 

COUSYN  Paston,  I  recommaunde  me  to  you  in  as  speciall  I474(?) 
wise  as  I  cane.  And  like  you  to  witte,  on  Sondaye  at  may  9 
even  last  I  hadde  writing  and  evedence  frome  my  lorde 
by  Punche  of  tidyngis  and  have  understonde  them  wel  al  a 
longe.  And  on  Monday  erly  in  the  mornyng  I  came  to  Calais 
to  have  spoken  with  you,  but  I  came  to  late.  Praying  you  to 
advertise  my  lord  ^  to  se  wel  to  him  self,  etc.  And  at  my 
corny ng  home  the  same  nyght  I  felle  doune  syke,  and  have 
ever  sith  kept  my  bedde  and  yitte  do.  And,  as  you  knowe 
wel,  the  Connestable  sykened  with  you  in  his  goyng  to  Calais, 
of  whome  I  doubt  me,  and  so  I  do  of  my  self  bothe.  So  that 
here  amongis  us  nowe  is  no  man  to  stirre  about  and  see  quykly  to 
alle  thingis  as  ther  aught  to  be  and  is  nede  to  be,  which  hevieth 
me  gretly  ;  and  though  I  were  up  and  might  somwhat  stire 
myself,  yitte  I  am  not  seure  so  to  contynue  ij.  daies  to-geder, 
etc.  As  for  moo  men,  my  Lord  hathe  praied  me  and  advised 
me  to  holde  me  content  with  thoo  that  I  have,  and  that  I 
shulde  make  as  litel  coste  in  reparacions  as  I  maye,  because  he 
cannot  se  wel  howe  the  monney  cane  be  goten  to  content  them. 
Cousyn,  as  for  moo  men  ye  knowe  right  wel  thoo  that  we  have 
are  to  fewe,  and  we  have  nede  ;  notwithstonding  I  shal  do  as 
wel  as  I  may  with  thoo  that  I  have.  But  as  [for]  ^  eny  ferther 
reparacions,  might  I  ones  for  oure  seurte  have  this  fournisshed 
that  I  am  about,  I  kepe  not  to  make  moo,  for  I  doubt  me  that 
this  we  are  about,  that  parte  therof  wil  reste  in  my  nekke, 
because  we  cane  not  be  seure  of  oure  assignement.  I  pray  you, 
cousyn,  brekes  to  my  Lord  all  suche  maters  that  ye  cane  remem- 
bre  and  thinke  *  may  be  for  the  wele  of  us  and  the  seurte  of 

1  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  122.]     This  letter  was  clearly  written  in  the  same  year  as 
No.  847,  which  was  apparently  1474. 

2  Lord  Hastings.  s  Omitted  in  ms. 
*  'thinke'  repeated  in  ms. 

205 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

i474(?)this  place,  as  my  ful  speciall  truste  and  alle  othir  mennes  here 
'^AY  9  is  in  you.  I  hadde  thought  to  have  writton  to  my  lord  to 
have  sente  some  othir  seure  man  hidre  to  have  assisted  and 
holpen  us  during  oure  infirmitees,  but  I  fele  by  Punche  that 
my  Lord  saith  I  write  always  so  plainly  to  him  that  hit  fereth 
him,  and  therfore  I  dar  not  but  shal  forbere  to  write  any  more 
so  ;  howe  be  hit,  it  were  ful  necessarye  and  behofful  so  to  do, 
that  knoweth  God,  Who  ever  preserve  you.  Writton  at 
Guysnes,  the  ix^  daye  of  May. 

I  praye  you  to  sende  us  some  of  your  tidingis  by  this  berer 
as  oft  as  ye  may.     And  if  ther  be  anything  I  may  do  to  your 
^     plesir,  I  shal  do  it  with  as  good  hart  as  ye  cane  desire. 

Your  tru  lufFuyng  coussen, 

Rauff  Hastyngis. 


849 

ABSTRACT  1 

1474  Letters  patent,  dated  at  Westminster,  24  July,  14  Edw.  iv.,  for  levying  a 

JULY  24    subsidy  in  the  county  of  Norfolk  for  a  war  against  France. 

850 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  2 

To  Sir  John  Paston,  Knyght^  or  to  hys  hrodyr  Edmund  in  hys 
absence^  lodgyd  at  the  George  by  Powlys  JVharff,  in  London. 

JULY  2  5     "jT^  YGHT  worchepfull  sir,  I  recomand  me  to  yow,  preying 

r^       yow  to  remembyr,  or  ye  depert  ought  of  London,  to 

spek   with    Herry    Ebertonys    wyf,    draper,    and    to 

enforme  hyr  that  I  am  profyrd  a  maryage  in  London,  whyche 

is  worth  vj"'  [600]  mark  and  bettyr  ;  with  whom  I  preyid  yow 

1  [Add.  Charter  14,973,  B.M.] 

2  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  is  endorsed  in  a  contemporaneous  hand 
'  Anno  xiiijV  showing  that  it  was  written  in  1474,  the  14th  year  of  Edward  iv.  We 
also  find  Sir  John  writing  to  his  brother  in  November  following  that  his  brother 
Edmund  had  heard  nothing  more  ot  Eberton's  daughter. 

206 


EDWARD  IV 

to  comone,  in  as  myche  as  I  myght  not  tery  in  London  myself,     i474 
alweys  reservyng  that  if  so  be  that  Mastresse  Eberton  wyll  J"'-"^  25 
dele  with  me,  that  ye  shold  not  conclud  in  the  other  place,  thow 
so  wer  that  Eberton  wold  not  geve  so  moche  with  Mastress 
Elyzabet,  hys  dowghtyr,  as  I  myght  have  with  the  other,  for 
syche  fantazy  as  I  have  in  the  seyd  Mastress  Elyzabet  Eberton, 
And  that  it  lyek  yow  to  sey  to  Ebertons  wyfF  that  syche  as  1 
spak  to  hyr  of  shalbe  bettyrd  rather  then  enpeyred  as  for  my 
part ;  and  if  it  lyek  hyr  to  deale  with  me,  I  wylbe  at  London 
for  that  cawse  only  with  in  xiiij.  dayis  aftyr  the  wryghtyng  of 
thys  byll,  with  Godes  grace.  Who  preserve  yow  and  yours 
Wretyn  at  Norwyche,  on  Seynt  Jamys  Day. 

Also,  sir,  I  prey  yow  that  ye  wyll,  as  I  desyerd  yow,  comon 
with  John  Lee  or  hys  wyf,  or  bothe,  and  to  undyrstond  how 
the  mater  at  the  Blak  Freerys  dothe,  and  that  ye  wylle  see  and 
spek  with  the  thyng  your  sylf,  and  with  hyr  fadyr  and  modyr, 
or  ye  depert  ;  and  that  it  lyek  yow  to  desyer  John  Lee  is  wyff 
to  send  me  a  byll  in  all  hast  possybyll,  how  fer  forthe  the  mater 
is,  and  whedyr  it  shalbe  necessary  for  me  to  come  up  to  London 
hastyly  or  not,  or  eUys  to  kast  all  at  the  Kok. 

Also,  sir,  I  prey  yow  that  Pytt  may  trusse  in  a  male,  whyche 
I  left  in  your  chambyr  at  London,  my  tawny  gowne  furyd  with 
blak,  and  the  doblet  of  porpyll  sateyn,  and  the  doblet  of  blak 
sateyn,  and  my  wryghtyng  box  of  syprese,  and  my  book  of  the 
Metyng  of  the  Dwke  and  of  the  Emperour,  and  when  all  thys 
gere  is  trussyd  in  the  male,  to  delyver  it  to  the  berer  herof,  to 
brynge  me  to  Norwyche. 

Item,  I  send  you  herwith  the  pylyon  for  the  male,  and  xs. 
for  the  hyer,  whyche  is  usery,  I  tak  God  to  rekord. 

Also,  that  it  lyek  yow  to  spek  with  your  apotycary,  whyche 
was  som  tyme  the  Erie  of  Warwykes  apotycary,  and  to  weet 
of  hym  what  the  wedow  of  the  Blak  Freiris  is  woorthe,  and 
what  hyr  husbondes  name  was.  He  can  tell  all,  for  he  is 
executore  to  the  wedous  husbond.  I  prey  yow  forget  me  not, 
no  more  then  I  do  yow.  I  have  spokyn  thys  day  with  Jamys 
Hubberd  and  Herry  Smyth,  and  to  morow  I  shall  have  an 
answer  of  theym. 

207 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1474  Also,  my  modyr  wyll  labore  thys  mater  with  effect,  that  the 

JULY  25    CC.  mark  may  be  had  for  the  wood. 

Also,  brodyr  Edmund,  I  prey  yow,  and  my  brodyr  Sir 
John  be  not  in  London,  that  ye  wyll  labore  all  thys  maters 
with  effect,  as  my  trust  is  in  yow  in  every  poynt  as  is  above 
wretyn. 

Also,  I  assartayn  yow  that  I  was  with  Ferrour  thys  day,  and  he 
had  no  leyser  to  comon  with  me  ;  but  I  wyll  be  with  hym  ayen 
to  morow  by  apoyntment  betwyx  hym  and  me,  and  so  as  I 
speed  I  shall  send  yow  woord  by  the  next  man  that  comyth  to 
London. 

Also,  I  sent  John  Lee  is  wyff  a  lettyr  by  on  Crawethorn 
dwellyng  in  Wood  street,  or  ellys  in  Sylver  street  at  the  end  of 
Wood  street.  I  prey  yow  weet  whedyr  she  had  it  or  nought  ; 
and  she  had  it  not,  brodyr  Edmund,  I  prey  yow  go  to  the 
same  Crawethorn,  and  tak  the  lettyr  of  hym,  and  delyver  it 
hyr  in  all  hast. 

J.  Paston.^ 

851 

ABSTRACT  2 

OCT.  24  I  Bill '  dated  24  Oct.,  14  Edw.  iv.,  relative  to  the  pledging  of  certain  parcels 

of  plate  by  William  Paston,  Esq.,  to  Elizabeth  Clere  of  Ormesby.     The  parcels 
amount  in  all  to  250  oz.  4  dwt.,  and  are  pledged  for  /^^o.      Sealed. 
ii.   Fair  copy  of  the  preceding. 

852 

ABSTRACTS 

The  Vicar  of  Paston  to  Margaret  Paston 

NOV.  3  When  my  master  Sir  John's  baily  was  at  Paston  he  scared  your  tenants, 

bidding  them  pay  no  rents  to  Mr.  William  Paston.  On  which  Harry  Warns 
wrote  to  Mr.  William,  who  bade  him  warn  them  not  to  pay  money  to  any  one 
else  ;  otherwise  he  would  meet  them  at  London  'as  the  law  would,'  or  at  some 
market  or  fair,  and  make  them  pay  arrears  to  Midsummer.      Beware  of  Warns, 

'  This  signature  stands  in  the  middle  of  the  postscript. 

2  [From  Paston  mss.,B.M.]  ■^  Ibid. 

208 


EDWARD  IV 

for  he  made  Master  William  privy  to  all  the  examinations  of  the  tenants  by  my 
master  your  son.  He  also  charged  the  tenants  not  to  sell  as  my  master  desired, 
else  Master  William  would  undo  them.  '  Ideo,  putte  no  trost  in  hym,  quia 
duobus  dom'inis  7iemo potest  servire.'      Pastun,  3  Nov. 

[This  and  the  letter  following  both  appear  to  have  been  written  at  the  time  of  Sir 
John  Paston's  dispute  with  his  uncle  William,  at  the  end  of  the  year  1474-] 


1474 

NOV.    3 


ABSTRACT  i 

[The  Vicar  of  Paston]  to  Mrs.   [Margaret  PastonJ 

John  Qwale,  farmer  of  Paston,  is  distressed  by  things  that  Herry  Warns  has 
done  and  said  against  him.  Warns  carried  home  '  an  esse  '  [^ash^  blown  down 
by  the  wind,  and  says  it  is  your  will,  because  Master  John  Paston  has  given  him 
power  over  all  that  he  has  in  Paston.  '  More  awre  he  stondes  in  grete  dowte 
to  ery  or  to  sawe '  [to  harroiv  or  to  jow],  for  John  of  Bactun  says  he  shall  have 
no  land,  unless  he  find  surety,  *  and  it  were  no  resun  that  he  suld  somerlay  and 
compace  hys  londes  to  a  noder  mans  hand.'  Warns  says  if  Qwale  put  out  any 
cattle  at  the  gates,  he  will  take  it  for  the  grain  that  Master  William  delivered  to 
him.  He  says  Mrs.  Margaret  Paston  2  has  no  rule  there,  and  shall  have  none ; 
also  that  John  Qwale  shall  not  have  Gyns  close  nor  the  Chyrche  close,  as  he 
has  taken  them  to  farm.  '  Qwere  fore,  bott  ze  gyfe  hym  oderwas  power,  he 
wyll  gefe  up  all.' 


1474 


85+ 

[WILLIAM  PASTON]  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 

\Jto\  my  right  worshipfull  neview  \_Sir  J'\ohn  Paston^ 
Knyghte,  be  \tht5\  lettre  delivered  in  hast. 

[Right]  worshipful  neview,   I   recommaund  me  to  you.     And,  sir,  T  pray    About 
you that    ther   was    none  .  *n  a('^\ 


1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

2  Mrs.  Margaret  Paston  is  here  spoken  of  by  name  and  in  the  third  person,  but 
the  letter  can  hardly  be  addressed  to  any  one  else. 

3  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  Of  this  letter  only  two  fragments  remain,  giving,  as 
will  be  seen,  a  very  mutilated  text.  Little  more  can  be  said  about  the  contents  than 
that  they  refer  to  money  matters  between  William  Paston  and  his  nephew  Sir  John, 
which  are  probably  those  referred  to  in  succeeding  letters.  The  handwriting  is  that 
of  William  Paston.  A  mutilated  endorsement,  apparently  in  the  handwriting  of 
John  Paston  the  younger,  shows  merely  the  words  * to  Sir  J.  P.  for 


VOL.  V. O 


209 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

About   obstacle  ner  lettinge  that  ye  found  in  me  to 

I474(?) save  me  harmeles ;   at  whiche  tyme  it  was  thought  aswel 

Johns  by  obligacioun 

was  not  inow  to  save  me  harm[eles] 

[i]n  the  meane  seasoune ;  for  as  your  reasoun  will  give     . 

ght  fell  of  yow  but  goode.     And  if  the  caas 

so  fill  that ys  will  take  it 

on  them,  than  I  to  here  the  losse.      Wherupp[on] 

[bjound  to  me  to  save  me  harmeles.     And  for  as 

muche m  by  obligacioun  of  statute 

merchaunt    for    you    the in 

myne  oune  kepinge  for  my  discharge,  and  after  a 

[r]estorid  me  ageyn  at  this  Michelmas.     And  m     .     .      .      . 

shuld  hange  still  till  Candil- 

mas,  and  me  thinke  it  is  by  con obligacions  paiable 

at [Candlejmas  I  did  at  the  begynny[ng] will 

kepe  still  the 

or  sufficient  and  that 

as  wold    pay  at  th 

with   me   than    thus 

.      indenture  wherby     .... 

for    be   cause 

that  ye  w     

experyens. 

Also  I  wold  avyse  you 

my  Lord  of  Norfolk. 

Also,  nevew,  there  is  onne  Fr 

but  hym  silf  and  his  wif  and 

.     .     .     .     wherfore  I  have  writin  to 

in  this  matier ;    and    I 

trust  1 And 

I  pray  yow  that  may  ha 


855 

ABSTRACT  1 

Date  Fragment  of  a  draft  deed  by  which   Sir  John  Paston  and  John  Paston, 

Esq.,  mortgage  certain  premises  not  named  to  the  use  of  Master  John  Morton, 


tain 


William  Paston,  Thomas  Playter,  and  Thomas  Lovell,  for  ^114. 

[Nothing  is  clear  about  the  date  of  this  document,  but  we  place  it  here,  as  bear- 
ing, like  the  last,  on  money  matters  between  Sir  John  Paston  and  his  uncle  William.] 


1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 
210 


EDWARD  IV 


856 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON^ 

To  Mestresse  Margrett  Pas  ton  at  Norwyche^  or  to 
J.  Paston  in  hyr  absence. 

RYGHT  wyrshypfuU  and  my  moste  kynde  and  tendre  1474 
moodre,  I  recomaund  me  to  yow,  thankyng  yow  off 
the  grete  cost  and  off  the  greet  chere  that  ye  dyd  to 
me  and  myn  at  my  last  beyng  wyth  yowe ;  whyche  cheer  also 
hath  made  me  perfyghtly  hooU,  I  thanke  God  and  yow,  in  so 
moche  that  where  as  I  feeryd  me  that  for  weykenesse,  and  so 
green  recuveryd  off  my  syknesse,  that  I  scholde  have  apeyryd 
by  the  weye ;  but,  God  thanke  yow,  I  toke  so  my  crommys 
whyls  I  was  wyth  yow,  that  I  felyd  my  sylfe  by  the  weye  that 
God  and  ye  had  made  me  stronger  than  I  wenyd  that  I  had 
ben,  in  so  myche  that  I  feell  my  selffe  every  daye  holler  than 
other. 

It  was  soo  that  I  mett  wyth  myn  onkle  William  by  the 
weye,  and  there  in  the  felde  I  payed  hym  the  iiij//.  whyche  I 
had  borowyd  off  hym  ;  and  he  was  passyng  inquisytyff  howe 
that  I  was  purveyd  for  recompensyng  off  Towneshend.  I 
tolde  hym  1  hopyd  weell;  he  tolde  me  that  he  undrestood 
that  I  had  the  Qli.  of  the  Bysshopys  executores,  and  he  had 
herde  seye  that  I  had  also  borowyd  another  Qli.  of  a  mar- 
chaunt,  and  so  I  lakyd  but  an  C.  marke.  I  deme  he  herde 
thys  of  T.  Lovell,  for  I  tolde  hym  that  I  was  in  hope  to 
fynde  suche  a  freende  that  wolde  lende  me  Qli.  He  axed 
me,  who  was  that  ?  I  answeryd  hym,  an  olde  marchaunt,  a 
freende  of  myn,  but  myn  oncle  thowte  that  shold  be  by  weye 
of  chevyshanse  \usury\  and  to  myn  horte ;  wherffor  I  was 
pleyne  to  hym,  and  tolde  hym  that  ye  wer  sewerte  therffor, 
and  purveyed  it  off  suche  as  wolde  doo  for  yowe.  And  as  for 
the  forte  \_fourth']  C.  mark,  he  seyde  to  me  that  as  for  that  he 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]     It  is  evident  from  the  contents  that  this  letter  must 
have  been  written  shortly  before  that  which  follows. 

211 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1474  wolde,  rather  than  joperte  sholde  be,  purvey  it  by  weye  off 
chevyshaunce  at  London,  in  so  moche  that,  er  he  come  fro 
London,  he  had  for  my  sake  leyde  v.  C.  markes  worthe  of 
plate  with  Hewghe  Fenne.  The  place  at  Warwykes  Inne  is 
large,  and  my  grawntdame  is  agyd  ;  it  had  ben  jopertous  to 
leve  moche  plate  wyth  hyr,  thoghe  halffe  were  hyr  owne. 
But  if  I  maye  do  other  wyse,  I  purpose  nott  to  chevy  she  any 
mony  by  hys  meane. 

Item,  I  have  delyveryd  yowre  botell  to  Courbye  the 
caryer  thys  same  daye,  and  he  promysed  me  to  be  with  yow 
on  Mondaye  nyghte,  or  ellys  on  Touesday  tymely.  He 
hathe  also  xW.  to  paye  for  the  thryd  hyryd  horse,  and  he 
bryngythe  the  iij.  horse  wyth  hym,  and  is  contente  for  hys 
labor  and  for  the  mete  largely.  They  be  delyveryd  hym  in  as 
good,  and  rather  better  plyght,  than  whan  I  had  them  forthe, 
and  not  gallyd  nor  hurte.  He  hate  also  ij.  sadelys,  one  of 
my  brotheres,  and  one  other  hyred,  as  ye  woot  off. 

Item,  he  hathe  a  peyre  botys  off  Edmond  Reedes,  the 
shomaker,  whyche  Saundre  borowyd  off  hym.  I  beseche 
yowe  that  William  Mylsent  or  Symme  maye  se  that  every 
man  have  hys  owne. 

Item,  as  for  my  brother  Edmond,  blyssyd  be  God,  he  is 
weell  amendyd. 

Item,  as  for  Hanky n  owr  dogge,  I  am  a  fferde  never  to 
see  hym,  but  if  [uniessi  yowr  good  helpe  bee. 

Item,  as  for  the  bookes  that  weer  Sir  James,  iff  it  lyke 
yow  that  I  maye  have  them,  I  ame  not  able  to  by  them ; 
but  somwhat  wolde  I  gyffe,  and  the  remenaunt  with  a  goode 
devowte  herte,  by  my  trowthe,  1  wyll  prey  for  hys  sowle. 
Wherffor  iff  it  lyke  yow  by  the  next  messenger  or  karyer  to 
sende  hem  in  a  daye,  I  shall  have  them  dressyd  heer ;  and  iff 
any  off  them  be  claymyd  here  aftre,  in  feythe  I  wyll  restoor 
it. 

Wretyn  on  Saterdaye.  John  Paston,  K. 


212 


EDWARD  IV 


857 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON^ 

To  Mestresse  Margrete  Paston,  or  to  Roose,  dwellyng  byffore 

hyr  gate  at  JSIorwyche. 

AFTRE  dew  recomendacion,  my  most  tendre  and  kynde  1474 
moodre,  I  beseche  yow  off  yowr  dayly  blessyng.  nov.  20 
Please  it  yow  to  weete  that  I  reseyvyd  a  lettre  thhat 
come  from  yowe,  wretyn  the  xxvj.  daye  of  Octobre,  none  erst 
but  ^  on  Wednysday  last  past,  wherby  I  conceyvyd  that,  at  the 
wryghtyng  off  that  letter,  ye  weer  nott  serteyn  of  the  delyng 
betwyn  Towneshende  and  me.  It  was  so  that,  God  thanke 
yow,  I  receyvyd  the  xx//.  broght  by  Syme,  and  also  the 
mony  browght  by  my  brother,  with  whyche  mony,  and  with 
moor  that  I  had  my  selff,  I  redemyd  the  maner  of  Sporle,  and 
payed  Towneshend  bothe  the  CCCC.  marke  ther  ffor,  and  also 
x//.  that  I  owte  hym  besyde,  and  have  off  hym  aqwytaunce  off 
all  bargaynes  and  off  all  other  dettes.  Neverthelesse,  I  assayed 
hym  iff  he  wolde,  iff  nede  hadde  ben,  gyvyn  me  a  xij.  monyth 
lenger  respyght,  whyche  he  grauntyd  to  do  ;  but  in  conclusyon 
I  can  nott  entrete  hym,  but  that  he  woll  have  the  uttremest 
of  hys  bargayn,  and  thys  xx//.  payeable  at  Candelmesse  and 
Esterne.  I  kan  entrete  hym  noon  other  wyse  as  yit ;  wher- 
ffor  I  thynke,  iff  I  had  passyd  my  daye,  it  had  ben  harde  to 
have  trustyd  to  hys  cortesye,  in  so  moche  I  ffynde  hym  also 
ryght  loose  in  the  tonge.  For  Bekham,  he  spekyth  no  thyng 
comfortably  ther  in  ;  what  he  wyll  doo,  can  I  nott  seye. 

Item,  as  for  Castre,  it  nedyth  nott  to  spore  nor  prykke  me 
to  doo  owghte  ther  in.  I  doo  that  I  can  with  goode  wyll,  and 
somwhat  I  hope  to  doo  hastely  ther  in  that  shall  doo  goode. 

Item,  as  for  the  bokes  that  weer  Syr  James,  God  have  hys 
sowle,  whyche  it  lykethe  yow  that  I  shall  have  them,  I  beseche 
yow  that  I  maye  have  them  hyder  by  the  next  massenger,  and 

*  [From  Paston  MSS.,  B.M.]  2  No  earlier  than. 

213 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1474    iff  1  be  goon,  yit  that  they  be  delyveryd  to  myn  ostesse  at  the 
NOV.  20  George,  at  Powlys  "Wharffe,  whyche  wolle  kepe  them  saffe, 
and  that  it  lyke  yow  to  wryght  to  me  whatt  my  peyne  or  pay- 
ment shall  be  for  them. 

Item,  it  lyked  yow  to  weet  of  myn  heelle.  I  thanke  God 
nowe  that  I  am  nott  greetly  syke  ner  soore,  but  in  myn  heele, 
wherin  alle  men  know  nott  whatt  peyne  I  feele.  And  wher  ye 
advysed  me  to  hast  me  owt  of  thys  towne,  I  wolde  full  fayne 
be  hense.  I  spende  dayly  mor  than  I  sholde  doo,  if  I  wer 
hense,  and  I  am  nott  well  purveyed. 

Item,  blessyd  be  Good,  my  grauntdam  is  amendyd  by 
suche  tyme  as  myn  oncle  W.  come  hyddre.  But  my  yongest 
cosyn  Margret,  hys  doghtre,  is  ded  and  beryed  er  he  come 
home. 

I  am  as  moche  afferde  off  thys  londe  that  is  in  hys  hande 
as  I  was  off  that  that  was  in  Towneshendes  hande.  I  hope 
to  wryght  yow  moor  serteynte  within  iiij.  or  v.  dayes.  No 
more,  &c. 

Wretyn  the  xx.  daye  of  Novembre,  anno  E.  iiij.  xiiij°. 

Yowr  Sone,  J.  Paston,  K. 


858 
SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

'T'o  John  'Paston^  Esquyer,  at  Norwyche^  or  to  Roose^  awellyng 
affor  Mestresse  Pastonys  gate^  in  Norwych, 

RYGHT  wyrshypful  and  weell  belovyd  brother,  I  re- 
comaunde  me  to  yow,  letyng  yow  weet  that  I  have 
comonyd  with  yowr  ftreende  Dawnson,  and  have  re- 
ceyvyd  yowr  rynge  off  hym,  and  he  hathe  by  myn  advyce 
spoken  with  hyr  "  ij.  tymes ;  he  tellythe  me  off  hyr  delyng 
and  answers,  whyche  iff  they  wer  acordyng  to  hys  seyng,  a 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  164.] 

2  Apparently  Lady  Walgrave,  hereafter  referred  to.     She  was  the  widow  of  Sir 
Richard  Walgrave,  Knight. 

2  14 


EDWARD  IV 

fFeynter  lover  than  ye  wolde,  and  weell  aghte  to,  take  therin  T474 
greet  comffort,  so  that  he  myght  haply  slepe  the  werse  iij.  ^^^'  ^° 
nyghtys  afftr.  And  suche  delyng  in  parte  as  was  bytwyen  my 
Lady  W.  and  yowr  iFreende  Danson  he  wrote  me  a  bylle  ther- 
off,  whyche  I  sende  yow  herwith ;  and  that  that  longythe  to 
me  to  doo  therin,  it  [//*]  shall  nott  ffayle  to  leeve  all  other 
bysynesse  a  parte.  Neverthelesse  within  iij.  dayes,  I  hope  so 
to  deele  herin,  that  I  suppose  to  sette  yow  in  serteynte  hoghe 
that  ye  shall  fynde  hyr  ffor  evyr  her  afftr.  It  is  so,  as  I 
undrestande,  that  ye  be  as  besy  on  yowr  syde  ffor  yowr 
ffreende  Dawnson,  wheer  as  ye  be,  I  praye  God  sende  yow 
bothe  goode  spede  in  thees  werkys,  whyche  iff  they  be  browte 
abowte  iche  off  yowe  is  moche  beholden  to  other;  yit  were  it 
pyte  that  suche  crafty  wowers,  as  ye  be  bothe,  scholde  speede 
weell,  but  iff  ye  love  trewly. 

Item,  as  ffor  Stoctons  doghtr,  she  shall  be  weddyd  in  haste 
to  Skeerne,  as  she  tolde  hyrselffe  to  my  sylke-mayde,^  whyche 
makyth  perte  off  suche  as  she  shall  weer,  to  whom  she  brake 
hyr  harte,  and  tolde  hyr  that  she  sholde  have  hadde  Master 
Paston,  and  my  mayde  wende  it  had  been  I  that  she  speke 
off;  and  with  moor  that  the  same  Mester  Paston  kome  wher 
she  was  with  xx.  men,  and  wolde  have  taken  hyr  aweye.  I 
tolde  my  mayde  that  she  lyed  off  me,  and  that  I  never  spake 
with  hyr  in  my  lyff,  ner  that  I  wolde  not  wedde  hyr  to  have 
with  hyr  iij'"'-  marke. 

Item,  as  for  Ebortons  dowghtr,  my  brother  Edmonde 
seythe,  that  he  herde  never  moor  speche  theroff  syns  yowr 
departyng,  and  that  ye  wolde  that  he  sholde  nott  breke,  nor 
doo  no  thynge  therin,  but  iff  it  come  off  theer  begynnyng. 

Item,  I  had  answer  ffrom  my  Lorde  ^  that  he  is  my  speciall 
goode  lorde,  and  that  by  wryghtyng  ;  and  as  ffor  Bernaye  he 
sette  hym  in  hys  owne  wages  ffor  my  sake,  and  that  whan  so 
ever  I  come  to  Caleys,  I  shall  ffynde  all  thyng  ther  as  woll 
have  it,  and  rather  better  than  it  was  heretoffor. 

1  A  person  who  made  gowns  of  silk,  etc.,  for  both  men  and  women,  as  appears 
from  the  manner  in  which  she  is  here  mentioned. — F. 

2  I  am  not  certain  whether  the  Duke  of  Norfolk  is  here  meant,  or  Lord  Hastyngs, 
the  then  Governor  of  Calais. — F. 

215 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

H74  Item,  the  Kyng  come  to  this  towne  on  Wednysdaye  ;  as 

NOV.  20  ^^^  ^^^  Frenshe  Embassate  that  is  heer,  they  come  nott  in  the 

Kynges  presence,  by  lykehod,  fFor  men  seye  that  the  chyeff  off 

them  is  he  that  poysonyd  bothe  the  Duke  off  Berry  ^  and  the 

Duke  off  Calabr,^ 

Item,  ther  was  never  mor  lyklyhod  that  the  Kyng  shall 
goo  ovyr  thys  next  yer  than  was  nowe. 

I  praye  yow  remembre  that  I  maye  have  the  pewter  vessell 
heddr  by  the  next  karyer  by  the  lattr  ende  off  thys  weke. 

Item,  I  praye  yow  remembr  so  that  I  may  have  the  bokys 
by  the  same  tyme,  whyche  my  moodr  seyde  she  wolde  sende 
me  by  the  next  carier, 

Wretyn  at  London,  the  Sondaye  the  xx.  daye  off  Novembr, 
anno  E.  iiij''  xiiij°. 

John  Paston,  K. 

,    859 

ABSTRACT  3 

NOV.  29  Norfolk  and  Suffolk  Deeds,  No.  33.     *  The  agreement  and  accord  between 

the  Bishop  of  Winton  and  John  Paston,  Knight,  touching  the  building  of  the 
College  at  Castre  of  seven  priests  and  seven  poor  men,  translated  by  dispensation 
of  the  Pope  to  seven  priests  and  seven  poor  scholars  in  Magdalene  College,  and 
touching  the  lands  of  Sir  John  Fastolf.     November  29,  Edw.  iv.  14.' 

860 
SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  * 

To  John  PastoHy  Esquier. 

DEC.  1 1     TTX  ROTHER,  I  recomaunde  me  to  yow,  letyng  yow  weete 

Ij     that  I  have,  lyke  as  I  promysyd  yowe,  I  have  doon 

my  devoyr  to  know  my  Lady  Walgraves  stomacke, 

whyche,  as  God  heipe  me,  and  to  be  pleyn  to  yowe,  I  fiynde 

*  Charles,  Duke  of  Berrj'  and  of  Guienne,  who  was  supposed  to  have  been  poisoned 
by  order  of  his  brother  Lewis  xi.  in  May  1472. 

2  Nicholas  of  Anjou,  Duke  of  Calabria  and  Lorraine,  who  died  about  the  same 
time  as  the  Duke  of  Guienne. 

3  [From  MS.  Index  in  Magd.  Coll.,  Oxford.] 
■*  [From  Fenn,  ii.  170.] 

216 


EDWARD  IV 

in  hyr  no  mater  nor  cawse,  that  I  myght  tak  comfort  off.  1 474 
Sche  will  in  nowyse  receyve,  ner  kepe  yowr  rynge  with  hyr,  dec.  i  i 
and  yit  I  tolde  hyr  that  sche  scholde  not  be  any  thynge  bownde 
therby  ;  but  that  I  knew  by  yowr  herte  off  olde  that  I  wyst 
weel  ye  wolde  be  glad  to  fforber  the  lesvest  lt^earesl~\  thynge 
that  ye  had  in  the  worlde,  whyche  myght  be  dayly  in  her 
presence,  that  sholde  cawse  hyr  onys  on  a  daye  to  remembr 
yow,  but  itt  wolde  not  be.  She  wolde  nott  therby,  as  she 
seyde,  putte  yow  ner  kepe  yow  in  any  comffort  therby.  And 
mor  ovyr,  she  preyed  me,  that  I  sholde  never  take  labor  moor 
heer  in,  ffor  she  wolde  holde  hyr  to  suche  answer  as  she  hadd 
geven  yow  to  ffoor,  wherwith  she  thowght  bothe  ye  and  I 
wolde  have  holde  us  contente,  had  nott  been  the  words  off  hyr 
suster  Geneffyeff. 

When  I  undrestood  all  thys,  and  that  over  nyght  she  bad 
hyr  that  weent  bytwyen  hyr  and  me  byd  me  brynge  with  me 
hyr  muskeball^  which,  &c.,  than  I  aftr  all  thys  axid  iff  she 
weer  dyspleasyd  with  me  ffor  it,  and  she  seyde,  naye. 

Than  I  tolde  hyr,  that  I  had  nott  sent  it  yowe,  ffor  synne 
off  my  sowle  ;  and  so  I  tolde  hyr  all,  how  I  had  wretyn  to 
yow  why  that  I  wold  nott  sende  it  yow,  by  cawse  I  wyst  weell 
ye  sholde  have  slepyd  the  werse  ;  but  nowe,  I  tolde  hyr,  as 
God  helpe  me,  that  I  wolde  sende  it  yow,  and  gyffe  yow  myn 
advyse  nott  to  hope  ovyr  moche  on  hyr,  whyche  is  ovyr  harde 
an  hertyd  lady  ffor  a  yonge  man  to  tryst  on  to  ;  whyche  I 
thowght  that  ffor  all  my  words,  ye  cowde  nott  ner  wolde  nott 
do  ffor  all  myn  advyce. 

Yitt  ageynwards  she  is  nott  dyspleasyd,  nor  fforbad  me 
nott  but  that  ye  sholde  have  the  kepyng  off  hyr  muskball ; 
wherffor  de  ye  with  itt  as  ye  lyke.  I  wolde  it  hadd  doon  weel ; 
by  Good,  I  spake  ffor  yow  soo,  that  in  ffeythe  I  trowe  I  kowde 
nott  seye  so  weel  ageyn. 

Wherffor  I  sende  yow  herwith  yowr  rynge,  and  the  on- 
happy  muskeball.  Also  make  ye  mater  off  it  herafftr  as  ye 
kan,  I  am  nott  happy  to  wow  nowther  ffor  my  selff  ner  noon 

1  This  muskball,  or  ball  of  perfume,  seems  to  have  been  taken  from  Lady  Walgrave 
by  Sir  John  Fasten  in  a  jesting  manner,  to  send  to  his  brother  as  a  present  from 
her.— F. 

217 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1474    other.     I  tolde  hyr  all  the  processe  off  the  Lorde  Howarde 
DEC.  1 1    and  off  yowr  grewnds  \_greyhounds]  as   I  kowde  ;    all   helpys 
nott.^ 

•  •••••• 

I  her  no  worde  off  my  vessell,  ner  off  my  boks  ;  I  mervayll. 
No  mor. 

Wretyn  at  London,  the  xj.  daye  of  Decembr,  anno  E. 
iiij."  xiiij°.  J.   P.,  K. 


861 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  2 

To  the  ryght  worshypfull  John  Paston^  Esquier^  at  Norwych,  or 
to  hys  modr^  Margreet  Paston^  in  hys  absence^  in  haste. 

^475  X  RECOMANDE  me  to  yow,  praying  yow  hertely,  that  I 
JAN.  17  I  maye  have  weetyng  when  that  my  Lorde  and  Lady  of 
Norffolk  shalle  be  at  London,  and  hovvgh  longe  they 
shall  tery  theer,  and  in  especiall  my  Lorde  of  Norffolk  ;  ffor 
uppon  ther  comyng  to  London  wer  it  ffor  me  to  be  guydyd. 
Neverthelesse  I  wolde  be  soory  to  come  theer  but  iff  1  neds 
most.  1  thynke  it  wolde  be  to  yow  ovyr  erksom  a  labor  to 
solycyte  the  maters  atwyen  them  and  me,  but  iff  I  weer  theer 
myselffe  ;  wherffor,  iff  ye  thynke  it  be  convenyent  that  I  com 
thyddr,  I  praye  yow  sende  me  worde  as  hastely  as  ye  maye, 
and  by  what  tyme  ye  thynke  most  convenyent,  that  I  sholde 
be  theer  ;  and  off  all  suche  coumfforte  as  ye  ffynde  or  heer  off 
the  towardnesse  theroff,  and  when  also  that  ye  shall  be  theer 
yowr  selffe.  For  it  is  so  that  as  to  morow  I  purpose  to  ryde 
in  to  Flaundrys  to  purveye  me  off  horse  and  herneys,  and 
percase  I  shall  see  the  assege  at  Nwse  ^  er  I  come  ageyn,  iff  I 
have  tyme  ;  wherffor,  iff  I  so  doo,  by  lyklyhod  it  woll  be  a 

^  '  Here  follows,''  says  Fenn,  '  some  displeasure  at  his  uncle  William's  proceedings 
in  matters  between  them,  etc.,  ot  no  consequence.' 

2  [From  Fenn,  ii.  174.]  'Though  this  letter,' says  Fenn,  '  has  no  signature,  yet 
it  is  written  by  Sir  John  Paston,  Knight.' 

2  Neuss,  not  far  from  Diisseldorf,  in  the  territory  of  Cologne,  at  this  time  besieged 
by  Charles  the  Bold,  Duke  of  Burgundy. 

218 


EDWARD  IV 

xiiij,  dayes  er  I  be  heer  ageyn  ;  and  afftr,  as  I  heer  fFrom  yowe  1475 
and  other  ther  uppon,  that  at  the  next  passage,  and  God  woU,  Jan.  17 
I  purpose  to  come  to  London  warde  :  God  sende  me  goode 
spede  ;  in  chefF  ffor  the  mater  above  wretyn  ;  and  secondly, 
fFor  to  appoynt  with  the  Kyng  and  my  Lorde,  ffor  suche 
retynwe  as  I  sholde  have  now  in  thees  werrys  in  to  Frawnce  ; 
wherffor  I  praye  yow,  in  Norffolk  and  other  places,  comon 
with  suche  as  ye  thynke  lykly  ffor  yow  and  me,  that  ar 
dysposyd  to  take  wages  in  gentylmenns  howsys  and  ellys 
wher,  so  that  we  maye  be  the  moor  redy,  when  that  nede  is  ; 
neverthelesse  at  thys  owr,  I  wolde  be  gladde  to  have  with  me 
deyly  iij.  or  iiij.  mor  than  I  have,  suche  as  weer  lykly;  ffor  I 
lakke  off  my  retynwe,  that  I  have  neer  so  many.  I  praye  yow 
sende  me  som  tydyngs,  suche  as  ye  heer,  and  howghe  that  my 
brother  Edmonde  dothe. 

For  as  ffor  tydyngs  heer,  ther  be  but  ffewe,  saffe  that  the 
assege  lastyth  stylle  by  the  Duke  off  Burgoyn  affoor  Nuse, 
and  the  Emperor  ^  hathe  besegyd  also,  not  fferr  from  these,  a 
castell,  and  an  other  town  in  lyke  wyse,  wher  in  the  Dukys 
men  ben.  And  also,  the  Frenshe  Kynge,  men  seye,  is  comyn 
ryght  to  the  water  off  Somme  with  iiij™'-  [4000]  spers  ;  and 
som  men  trowe  that  he  woll,  at  the  daye  off  brekyng  off  trewse, 
or  ellys  byffoor,  sette  uppon  the  Duks  contreys  heer.  When 
I  heer  moor,  I  shall  sende  yowe  moor  tydyngs. 

The  Kyngs  inbassators,  Sir  Thomas  Mongomere  and  the 
Master  off  the  Rolls  ^  be  comyng  homwards  ffrom  Nuse  ;  and 
as  ffor  me,  I  thynke  that  I  sholde  be  sek  but  iff  I  see  it. 

Syr  John  off  Parre  and  William  Berkeley  com  thys  weye 
to  Flaundrs  ward  to  by  them  horse  and  herneys,  and  [I]  made 
Sir  J.  Parr  goode  cheer  as  I  cowde  ffor  yowr  sake ;  and  he 
tolde  me,  that  ye  made  hym  haulte  cheer,  &c.  at  Norwyche. 
No  moor. 

Wretyn  at  Caleys,  the  xvij.  daye  off  Janever,  anno  Edwardi 
iiij''  xiiij°- 

1  Frederick  in.  of  Austria,  Emperor  of  Germany. 

2  Dr.  John  Morton,  afterwards  Bishop  of  Ely,  Lord  Chancellor,  Archbishop  of 
Canterbury,  and  Cardinal. 

219 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

862 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 

'To  John  Paston,  Sqwyer,  be  thys  delyveryd  in  hast. 

Jh's.^ 

1475  T  GRET  yow  well,  and  send  yow  Goddes  blyssyng  and 
JAN.  29  I  myn,  letyng  yow  wet  that  my  cosyn  Robard  Clere  was 
her  with  me  thys  weke,  and  told  me  that  he  was  nowt 
payd  of  the  mony  that  ye  know  that  was  borowd  of  hys  modyr 
and  of  hym,  but  mfli.  The  xx/z.  that  my  plegges  ly  for  ys 
on  payd.  He  seyd  that  he  was  desyryd  to  delyvere  my  plegges, 
and  to  have  be  payd  the  xx/i.  ;  but  he  wold  not,  tyll  he  had 
spokyn  with  me,  because  of  the  promys  that  he  had  mad  to 
me  befor  that  he  shuld  not  delyver  them  to  non  withowt  my 
assent.  I  seyd  to  hym  that  I  suppose  veryly  that  yowyr 
brodyr  hys  a  greyd  with  yowyr  hunkyll  that  he  shuld  paye  all 
the  hole,  for  I  suppose  he  hath  a  swerte  for  ale  that  and  more. 
I  wold  undyrstond  how  yt  ys,  and  how  that  my  seyd  cosyn 
shall  be  content,  for  I  war  loth  to  lese  my  plegges  ;  I  wot  yt 
well,  yowyr  good  hunkyll  wold  ben  in  possessyon  with  good 
well,  but  I  wol  not  soo.  I  wold  that  ye  shuld  speke  with 
yowyr  hunkyll  ther  in,  and  send  me  word  in  hast  what  he 
sect  [saith']. 

I  marvyll,  be  my  trowth,  that  I  had  no  wrytyng  fro  yowyr 
brodyr,  er  he  departyd  fro  London,  as  he  promysyd  in  the  last 
lettyr  that  he  sent  me,  the  wych  was  wretyn  be  for  the  Kynges 
comyng  to  Norwych ;  I  went  [expected^  veryly  to  have  hard 
from  hym  ar[^r<?]  thys  tyme.  I  wold  ye  shuld  send  hym  word 
of  yowyr  hunkyles  delyng  in  thys  seyd  mater,  and  send  me  an 
ansswer  ther  off. 

Recomaund  me  to  yowyr  grauntdam.  I  wold  she  war  her 
in  Norffolk,  as  well  at  es  as  evyr  I  sy  hyr,  and  as  lytyll  rewlyd 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]     This  letter  was  evidently  written  on  the  same  day 
as  that  immediately  following. 

2  This  is  the  customary  contraction  of  the  name  Jesus,  which  was  frequently 
written  at  the  head  of  a  letter, 

220 


EDWARD  IV 

be  hyr  son  as  evyr  she  was,  and  than  I  wold  hope  that  we  alle     1475 
shuld   far  the   bettyr   for   hyr.     Yt  ys   told   me  that  yowyr   JAN.29 
hunkyll    hath    mad    gret    menys   and    larg    profyrs    to    John 
Bakton  to  make  a  relesse  to  hym  of  Oxinhed.     Whedyr  that 
be  don  or  nowt,  I  wot  nowt  yet,  but  I  shall  wot  in  hast,  yf 
I  may. 

I  wold  ye  shuld  spekyn  with  my  Lord  of  Norwych,  and 
a  say  to  get  a  lysen  of  hym  to  that  I  may  have  the  sacrement 
her  in  the  chapell,  because  yt  ys  far  to  the  chyrche,  and  I  am 
sekly,  and  the  parson  ys  oftyn  owt.  For  all  maner  of  casweltes 
of  me  and  myn,  I  wold  havyt  grauntyd,  yf  I  myth. 

Send  me  word  yf  ye  her  ony  tydynges  from  yowyr  brodyr 
how  he  doth  of  hys  seknes,  and  in  odyr  thynges,  as  farforth  as 
ye  know,  as  astely  as  ye  may.  I  thynk  long  tyll  I  her  from 
hym  for  dyvers  causys.     God  kepe  yow. 

Wretyn  in  hast  at  Mawdby,  on  the  Satyrday  next  be  for 
Candelmes  Day. 

Send  me  an  ansswer  of  thys  lettyr  in  hast,  and  odyr 
tydynges,  &c. 

Be  yowyr  modyr. 

My  cosyn  Robard  told  me  that  ther  was  mor  than  vij//.  of 
the  mony  that  was  payd  hym  that  was  ryght  on  rysty,  and  he 
cowd  nowt  havyt  chaungyd.     He  was  on  goodly  servyd  ther  in. 

863 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTONi 

To  Ser  John  Paston^  Knyght^  be  thys  delyveryd  in  hast. 

Jh's.2 

RYGHT  welbelovyd  son,  I  gret  yow  well,  and  send  yow 
Goddes  blyssyng  and  myn,  letyng  yow  wete  that  I  mar- 
veyle  that  I  have  had  no  wrytyng  from  yow  sethyn  ye 
sent  me  the  lettyr  that  ye  sent  me  be  for  the  Kynges  comyng 

1  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  2  See  p.  220,  Note  2. 

221 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1475  to  Norwych  ;  in  the  whyche  lettyr  ye  wrot  to  me  that  ye 
JAN.  29  shuld  a  wretyn  azeyn  to  me  or  ye  shuld  de  part  owt  of 
London.  It  ys  so  that  yowyr  hunkyll  William  hath  do  payd 
to  my  cosyn  Robard  Clere  but  iiij'"'//.  of  the  Qli.  and  he  wol 
no  mor  pay  but  yf  [imless^  he  hath  delyveraunc  of  my  plegges, 
the  wych  was  leyd  to  plegg  for  xx*'//.  ;  the  wych  ben  bettyr. 
I  wot  well,  be  cause  of  the  good  well  that  he  owyt  to  me, 
as  ye  know,  he  wold  ben  in  possessyon  therof.  My  cosyn, 
Robard  Cler,  was  her  with  me  thys  weke,  and  told  me,  that  y^ 
he  wold  a  delyveryd  them,  he  myth  an  had  the  seyd  xx//.  ; 
but  he  seyd  he  wold  nowt,  tyll  he  had  spokyn  with  me  ;  be 
my  trowth  I  fynd  hym  ryght  kyndly  dysposyd  to  yow,  and  to 
me  bothe  ;  and  so  I  have  desyryd  hym  to  kepe  styll  the 
plegge  in  hys  possessyon,  tyll  I  have  word  from  yow  how  ye 
ar  agreyd  with  yowyr  hunkyll  for  the  payment  of  the  seyd 
mony  :  I  wen  veryly  that  ye  have  fownd  hym  swerte  for 
alle,  and  yf^  ye  have  soo  do,  I  wold  ye  shuld  wryt  to  yowyr 
hunkyll  therfor,  that  I  myth  have  my  plegges  ageyn,  for  I 
war  loth  that  they  shuld  com  in  hys  fyngyers. 

Item,  as  for  Sporyl  wood,  be  ffor  the  Kynges  comyng  into 
Norffolk,  I  myth  an  had  chapmen  to  abowtyd  \have  bought  it'\ 
a  gret  [in  whole]  for  xij'"'-  [twelve  score]  mark,  and  now  ther 
wol  no  man  by  yt  a  gret,  bycause  of  the  gret  good  that  the 
pepyll  ys  leyd  to  for   the   Kyng  ;   werfor  we  ar  a  bowth  to 
retaylyt  as  well  as  we  may,  and  as  well  as  yt  can  be  browth 
too  ;  and  I  send  yow  word  how  we  shall  do  as  astely  as  I  may. 
As  for  yowyr  barly  in  thys  cuntre,  yt  cannot  be  sold  above  xd. 
or  xj<af.  ;  that  ys  the  gretest  prys  of  barly  her,  and  but  yt  be  at 
a  bettyr  prys,  I  purpose  for  to  do  yt  malt.     And  as  for  mony, 
I  cowd  not  get  yet  of  Pecok  but  iij/z.  ;  and  he  seth  that  be 
than  that  the  owt  chargys  be  boryn,  and  the  repracion  of  the 
myll  at  Wyntyrton,  we  ar  lyke  to  have  but  lytyll  mor  mony 
besyd  the  barly.     Malt  ys  sold  her  but  for  xiij^.  and  whet  ijj. 
or  xxvj^/.  at  thys  time,  and  otys  xij<^.     Ther  ys  non  owtlod 
suffyrd  to  goo  owth  of  thys  cuntre  as  yet;  the  Kyng  hath 
comaundyd  that  ther  shuld  non  gon  owth  of  thys  lond.     I  fer 
me  that  we  shall  have  ryth  a  straung  ward  [world]  ;   God  a 
mendyd,  whan  Hys  wyll  ys.      I  thank  yow  for  the  flakons 
2,22 


EDWARD  IV 

that  ye  sent  me  ;  they  be  ryght  good,  and  plesyth  me  ryght  ^475 
well :  I  shall  be  as  good  an  huswyff  for  yow  as  I  can,  and  as  I  J-***-  ^9 
wold  be  for  myseliF.  Send  me  word  how  ye  doo  of  yowyr 
syknes  that  ye  had  on  yowyr  hey  [eye]  and  yowyr  lege  ;  and 
yff  God  wol  nowt  suffyr  yow  to  have  helth,  thank  Hym  ther- 
of,  and  takyt  passhently,  and  com  horn  a  geyn  to  me,  and  we 
shall  lyve  to  geddyr,  as  God  woll  geve  us  grase  to  do  ;  and  as 
I  have  seyd  to  yow  beffor  thys,  I  wold  ye  war  delyveryd  of 
my  mastres  A.  H.,^  and  than  I  wold  trost  that  ye  shuld  do  the 
bettyr. 

As  for  the  bokys  that  ye  desyryd  to  have  of  Syr  Jamys/ 
the  best  of  alle  and  the  fayrest  ys  cleymyd  ;  ner  yt  ys  not  in 
hys  inventory.  I  shall  a  say  to  get  yt  for  yow,  and  I  may  ; 
the  prys  of  the  todyr  bokys,  besyd  that,  ys  xxs.  v]d.  the  wych 
I  send  yow  a  byll  of.  Yf  ye  lyk  be  the  prys  of  them,  and  ye 
wol  have  them,  send  me  word.  And  also  I  pray  yow  send  me 
an  ansswere  of  thys  lettyr,  be  cause  I  thynk  long  seth  I  hard 
from  yow.     God  have  yow  in  Hys  kepyng. 

Wretyn  at  Mawdby,  on  the  Sattyrday  nex  be  forn  the 
Purificacion  of  owyr  Lady,  the  xiiij.  yer  of  Kyng  Edward  the 
iiij'. 

Yowyr  Modyr. 

Endorsed — Anno  xiiij°. 

864 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 

'To  hys  brother  John  Fasten,  or  to  hy[s]  oncle  William  Paston,  in 
Werwyk  Lane,  or  to  Edmond  Paston,  at  the  George,  at 
Powlys  Wharf  e,  to  deliver  any  of  them. 

RYGHT  worshypffull,  I  recomaunde  me  on  to  yow,  let-     feb.  5 
yng  yow  weete  that  I  thynke  longe  that  I  heer  nott 
from  yow  syns  Crystmesse,  ner  have  no  serteyn  know- 
leche  whether  that  Towneshend  hathe  performyd  hys  promysse 
or  nott,  ner  off  my  brother  Johnys  beyng  at  London,  ner  off 

1  Anne  Haiilte.  2  Sir  James  Gloys. 

3  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

223 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1475     "^y  Lord  or  Lady  off  Norfolkes  comyng  to  London,  at  whoys 
^^^'  5     comyng  sholde  be  the  cheffe  labor  and  sewte  that  I  or  or  any 
for  me  sholde  labor.     It  was  soo,  God  thanke  you  bothe,  that 
iche  off  yow,  at  my  last  beyng  with  yow,  grauntyd  me  to  take 
labor  uppon  yow  ;  and  iche  off  yow,  for  the  havyng  ageyn  off 
my  place  in  Castre.     Now  is  it  soo,  that  wher  my  verry  pur- 
pose was  to  have  comyn  to  London  now  with  the  Master  of 
the  Rollys  ^  and  Sir  Thomas  Mongomere,  demyng  to  fynde 
the  Kyng  at  the  Parlement ;  and  also  that  my  Lorde  and  Lady 
off  Norffolk  sholde  nott  by  lyklyhod  fayle  to  be  theer  also  : 
wherffor  me  thoght  the  tyme  was  convenyent;  but  it  happyd 
so  that  suche  tydynges  come  hyddre  off  the  Frenshe  Kynges 
hasty  comyng  in  to  thees  marchys  of  Pykardye,  whyche  cawsyd 
my  Lordes  Depute  and  Cownsell  heer  to  desyr  and  charge  me 
soo  streyghtly,  that  in  noo   wyse   T   maye,  tyll  I  heer  other 
tydynges,  departe  from  hense.      Notwithstondyng  the  Mar- 
chall  and  Counsell   heer   have  wretyne   to   my   Lorde   Lywe 
tenant  for  me,  and  moor  over  desyryd  bothe  the  Master  of 
the  Rollys  and  Sir  T.  Mongomere  to  remembre  my  materes 
bothe  to  the  Kynge  and  to  my  lorde,  in  so  moche  that,  iff  the 
season  be  convenyent,  both  the  seyd  Master  and  Syr  T.  Mon- 
gomere wille  labore  bothe  the  Kynge  and  my  lorde  to  entrete 
my  Lorde  off  Norffolk,  my  lady  hys  wyff,  and  ther  consell,  to 
do  for  me  all  that  reason   wyll  ;   of  whoys  good  willes  and 
labor  her  in  1  ame  better  ensuryd  off,  than  I  kan  for  lakke 
of  leyser  at  thys  tyme  wryght  yowe  wetyng  off;  wherffor  I 
praye  yow  and  iche  of  yow,  iff  the  season  be  convenyent,  to 
take  the  labor,  that  theese  jentyllmen  maye  do  for  me,  and  to 
my  proffyght,  like  as   I   feelle   them  dysposyd  to   doo ;  and 
moore  over  I  have  somwhatt  informyd  them  bothe  ther  in  ; 
and  also  that  I  maye  hastyly  heer  from  yow,  and  iff  it  come 
to  that  any  mony  most  be  gevyn  to  my  Lorde  or  Lady  off 
Norffolk  IFor  a  plesyr  herffor,   I  woll,  uppon  as  I  heer  from 
yow,  come  to  yow  in  alle  hast  possible,  all  thynges  leyde  a 
parte. 

Item,   iff  any   letter   be   requesyth   to   be   hadde,  in  lyke 
forme  as  oonys  ther   was   from   the  Kyng  to  my  Lorde  off 

1  John  Morton,  afterwards  Bishop  of  Ely. 
224 


EDWARD  IV 

NoriFolk,  Sir  T.  Montgomere  will  by  your  advyces  opteyne     1475 
yow  suche  one  off  yowr  entents  to  my  proffyghte  in  the  prem-    ^eb.  5 
yssys,  and  by  thys  my  wryghtyng  I  bynde  me  to  repaye  yowe, 
iff  any  suche  letter  or  wryghtyng  be  opteynyd,  what  so  ever  it 
coste.     No  more  for  lakke  off  leysor. 

Wretyn  at  Caleys,  the  v.  day  of  Feverer,  Anno  E.  iiij. 
xiiij°. 

As  for  tydynges  heer,  my  masteris  th'embassatores,  Sir  T. 
Mongomere,  and  the  Master  of  the  Rollys,  kom  streyght  from 
the  Duke  at  hys  assege  at  Nywysse,  whyche  wyll  nott  yitt  be 
wone. 

Yowr  John  Paston,  K. 

865 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  1 

'To  Mestresse  Margret  Paston^  at  Norwyche^  be  thys  delyveryd. 

PLEASE  it  yow  to  weete  that  I  receyvyd  a  letter  from  feb.  22 
yow,  wretyn  the  Saterdaye  next  byffor  Candelmesse  ; 
for  answer  wheroff,  lyke  it  yow  to  weete,  that  as  for 
the  bokys  that  weer  Sir  James  (God  have  hys  sowle  !),  I 
thynke  best  that  they  be  styll  with  yow,  tyll  that  I  speke  with 
yow  my  selffe.     My  mynde  is  now  nott  most  uppon  bokes. 

Item,  as  for  xx/z.  that  ye  sey  that  yowr  plate  lythe  for,  it  is 
so,  that  I  fownde  my  oncle  William  no  sewerte  therffor,  as 
Playter  and  my  brother  John  bothe  cowde  enfforme  yow  ;  it 
was  never  desyryd  of  me,  ner  the  tolde  me  nott  that  any 
suche  pledge  laye  for  it,  but  that  ye  hadd  dyschargyd  me  of 
xx//.  and  chevysshyd  it,  and  that  ye  sholde  repaye  it  in  hast  ; 
wherin  I  woU  do  as  ye  woll,  and  as  it  pleasyth  yow  to  sende 
me  wetyng. 

Item,  I  ame  sory  that  ye  be  no  better  payd  off  the  xx//, 
that  I  had  off  yowe,  whyche  ye  sholde  have  receyvyd  ageyn  off 
my  londes  in  Flegge.     Iff  the  markett  be  nott  goode  yit,  I 
hope  it  shall  be  better  ;  never  the  lesse  my  wylle  is  that  ye 

1  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.] 
VOL.  V. P  225 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1475  sholde  have  yowr  holl  xx//.  ageyn,  and  not  lose  j^.  Wherffor 
FEB.  22  if  it  be  so  that  ye  be  mysse  servyd  ther,  I  beseche  yow  off 
pacyence  tyll  the  begynnyng  of  the  next  yeer,  and  iff  aught  be 
behynd,  ye  shall  receyve  uppe  the  remenaunt  then,  for,  as  God 
helpe  me,  I  wolde  be  sory  that  ye  lost  moor  for  me  ;  I  have 
pytte  yow  to  cost,  charge,  and  losse  i  nowge,  God  thanke  yow 
of  it,  thoughe  ye  lose  no  more,  Wherffor  iff  Sporle  woode 
sprynge  any  sylver  or  golde,  it  is  my  wyll  that  fyrst  of  alle  ye 
be  yowr  owne  payer  off  all  that  is  be  hynde  ;  and  next  thatt, 
to  paye  myn  oncle  William  vij''''vj//.  xiijj.  iiij^.  and  besyd  that, 
xvj/i.  lost  uppon  the  chevysshaunce  of  iiij"/z.  ;  and  so  I  owe 
v'nfHjIi.  xiijj.  iiijV.  Wherffor  I  beseche  yow  to  make  hast  in 
repayment  heroff  as  fast  as  it  wolle  growe,  as  my  trust  is  in 
yowe. 

Item,  wher  it  pleasyd  yow  to  weete  of  myn  heele  and 
amendyng  ;  I  thanke  Godde  I  ame  in  goode  case,  and  as 
goode  a  full  hooU,  bothe  off  the  fevre,  agwe  off  myn  ie,  myn 
legge,  and  myn  heele,  saff  that  I  ame  tendre  off  all  theese  ; 
and  were  nott  goode  rewle,  full  like  to  feell  off  iche  off  them 
ryght  soone  ;  neverthelesse,  God  thanke  yow  off  yowr  large 
profre,  wheroff  I  wolde  be  ryght  gladde  iff  I  myght,  for 
trebles  and  other  labor  that  I  have  takyn  on  me  nowe  in  to 
Fraunce  warde ;  for  the  goode  spede  off  me,  and  that  jorneye, 
I  beseche  yow  of  yowr  preyeres  and  remembrance  ;  and  thatt 
jorney,  with  Goddes  grace,  ones  doon,  I  purpose  verrely,  with 
Goddes  grace,  therafftre  to  daunce  atendaunce  most  abowt 
yowr  plesure  and  ease  :  and  with  Goddes  grace,  soone  uppon 
Esterne,  er  evyr  I  goo  forthe,  I  hope  to  se  yow,  and  fecche 
your  blessynge.  No  moor  at  thys  tyme,  but  Jesus  have  yow 
in  Hys  kepyng, 

Wretyn  at  Caleys,  the  xxij,  daye  of  Feverer,  anno  E.  iiij'' 
xiiij°.  Yowr  Sone, 

John  Paston,  K. 

On  the  back  of  the  preceding  letter  is  written  in  another  hand,  as  foUonvs  : — 
Memorandum,  that  Syr  John  Paston  owthe  to  William  Paston,  acordyng 
to  the  endenture  made  be  twex  them, — 

viij^^ij//.  xiijj-.  iu'jd. 
WherofF  payable  the  firste  day  of  Octobre  for  Townsend,  C.  marke. 
Item  ,  the  xxvj.  day  off  Novenibre, —  iiij""  xvj/« 

226 


EDWARD  IV 

866 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTONi 

JOHN  PASTON,  I  send  yow  Godds  blyssyng  and  myn,     1475 
letyng  yow  wete,  that  I  hadd  non  er  thys  lettyr  than  march  5 
on  Sent  Matheus  Evyn ;  yf  I  myth  a  had  an  massenger 
or  thys  tym  I  had  sent  yt  yow.     I  con  yow  thank  for  the 
lettyr   that   ye   sent   to   my  cosyn   Calthorpp  and  me  of  the 
tydyngs ;  I  wold  ye  shuld  do  soo  mor.     As  ye  may  remembyr 
that  I  spak  to  yow  for  the  xx*'//.  for  my  cosyn  Clere,  spek  to 
yowr  hunkyll  therof,  and  send  me  an  answer  therof  in  hast. 
And  for  the  lycens  that  I  spak  to  yow  for,  to  have  the  Sacre- 
ment  in  my  Chapell,  yf  ye  cannot  getyt  of  the  Busshop  of 
Norwych,  getyt  of  the  Busshop  of  Caunterbery,  for  that  ys 
most  swyr  for  all  plase.     God  kepe  yow. 
Wretyn  on  Mydlent  Sunday. 

867 

RICHARD  SOUTHWELL  TO  JOHN  PASTON « 

'To  the  right  worshippfull^  and  my  right  feithfull 
gode  cosin,  John  Paston^  Esquier. 

RIGHT  worshippfull  and  my  right  feithfull  gode  cosin,  march  26 
I  recomaunde  me  unto  you,  and,  as  hertily  as  I  can, 
thanke  you  of  your  right  gentill  and  kynde  remem- 
braunce,  that  I  consceyve  well  by  your  late  writyng  that  ye 
have  to  me  wardes,  undeserved  in  dede,  but  not  in  will,  so 
God  helpe  me,  as  ye  shuld  weell  knowe,  if  my  power  might 
accorde  with  my  will.  And,  cosin,  in  the  mater  that  it  liked 
you  to  remembre  me  in,  bothe  to  my  worshipp  and  pleaser,  I 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  178.]     This  letter  was  written  on  the  back  of  Letter  861. 

2  [From  Fasten  mss.,  B.M.]  Fenn  thinks  the  gentleman  here  referred  to  was 
John  Berney  of  Reedham,  Esquire,  who  married  Alice,  daughter  of  Richard  South- 
well, Esquire,  of  Wood  Rising,  the  writer  of  this  letter.  He  accordingly  dates  it 
about  the  year  1475,  and  I  see  no  reason  to  question  his  opinion. 

227 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1475  ^'eere  me  that  nouther  my  pouere  doughter  nor  pouere  purs 
MARCH  26  can  nor  may  be  to  his  pleaser  ;  wold  God  outher  might ;  and 
I  shuld  take  me  right  neere  to  his  pleaser,  savyng  myself, 
I  ensure  you  by  my  trouth.  And  howe  to  understand  his 
pleaser  and  disposicion  therin,  I  see  no  mean  as  thus  advised, 
but  if  [unkss'j  it  might  please  you  by  your  wisdam  to  attempte 
it  forther,  as  ye  seme  moste  conveniente,  and  theruppon  I  to 
be  guyded  by  your  gode  advise,  as  the  cas  shall  require  ; 
wherin  ye  shall  bynde  me  herefter  to  do  that  may  be  to  your 
pleaser  to  my  power,  and  yette  with  no  better  will  than  I  have 
had,  so  God  help  me,  Who  have  you  ever  in  His  kepinge,  and 
sende  you  your  hertes  desire  to  His  pleaser ;  and  if  it  pleas 
you  to  remembre  further  in  the  premisses,  I  trust  ye  shall 
leese  no  labour  on  my  pouere  parte;  howe  be  it  I  fere  me 
sore,  as  I  be  gan,  bothe  of  my  pouere  doughter  and  purs. 

Writcn  at  Woderysyng,  the  morn  efter  Our  Lady  Day,  in 
haste. 

I  require  you  this  bill  may  be  secrete. 

By  your  trewe  cosin, 

RiC.    SUTHWELL. 


868 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  1 

To  my  ryght  worchepfull  modyr^  Margaret  Paston^  at  Maw  thy . 

I475(r)    I  '\  YGHT    worchepfull    modyr,    aftyr    all    humbyll    re- 
[mar.  29]    rv       comendacyons,  as  lowely  as  I  can  I  beseche  yow  of 
^  your  blyssyng.     Pleasyt  yow  to  wete  that  late  yester 

nyght  I  cam  to  Norwyche,  purposeing  to  have  been  as  thys 
day  with  yow  at  Mawtby,  but  it  is  so  that  I  may  not  hold  my 
purpose,  for  he  that  shall  pay  me  my  quarter  wagys  for  me 
and  my  retenew,  is  in  Norwyche,  and  waytyth  ourly  when  hys 

1  [From  Fenn,  iv.  4.44.]  This  letter  was  evidently  written  in  1475,  when  John 
Paston  and  one  or  more  of  his  younger  brothers  were  about  to  go  over  to  France 
with  the  King's  army. — See  Letter  871.  Margaret  Paston  was  at  that  time  continu- 
ally resident  at  Mautby. 

228 


EDWARD  IV 

money  shall  com  to  hym.     It  is  oon  Edmund  Bowen  of  the  I475(?) 
Cheker,  a  specyall  frend  of  myn,  and  he  avysyth  me  to  tery  [mar.  29] 
tyll  the  money  be  com,  lest  that  I  be  unpayed,  for  who  comyth 
fyrst  to  the  mylle,  fyrst  must  grynd. 

And  as  I  was  wryghtyng  thys  byll,  on  of  the  gromys  of 
my  lords  chambyr  cam  to  me,  and  told  me,  that  my  lady  wyll 
be  here  In  Norwyche  to  morow  at  nyght  towards  Walsyng- 
ham,  whyche  shall,  I  wot  well,  be  a  nother  lett  to  me ;  but  I 
had  more  need  to  be  other  wyse  ocupyed  then  to  awayte  on 
ladyse,  for  ther  is  as  yett,  I  trowe,  no  sperre  that  shall  go 
over  the  see,  so  evyll  horsyd  as  I  am.  But  it  is  told  me  that 
Rychard  Call  hathe  a  good  horse  to  sell,  and  on  John  Becher 
of  Oxborough  hathe  an  other ;  and  if  it  myght  please  yow  to 
geve  Syme  leve  to  ryd  in  to  that  centre  at  my  cost,  and  in 
your  name,  seying  that  ye  wyll  geve  on  of  your  sonys  an 
horse,  desyryng  hym  that  he  wyll  geve  yow  a  penyworthe  for 
a  peny,  and  he  shall,  and  the  pryse  be  resonabyll,  hold  hym 
pleasyd  with  your  payment  ought  of  my  purse,  thow  he 
knowe  it  not  or  hys  horse  depert  fro  hys  lands.  Modyr,  I 
bese[che]  yow,  and  It  may  please  yow  to  geve  Syme  leve  to 
ryde  on  thys  message  in  your  name,  that  he  may  be  here  with 
me  to  morow  in  the  mornyng  be  tymys,  for  wer  I  onys 
horsyd,  I  trowe  I  wer  as  ferforthe  redy  as  some  of  my  neygh- 
borows.  I  herd  a  lytyll  word  that  ye  purposeid  to  be  here  in 
Norwyche  thys  next  week.  I  prey  God  it  be  thys  week. 
Modyr,  beseche  yow  that  I  may  have  an  answer  to  morow  at 
the  ferthest  of  thys  mater,  and  of  eny  other  servyse  that  it 
please  yow  to  comand  me,  whyche  I  wyll  [be]  at  all  seasons 
redy  to  acomplyshe  with  Gods  grace.  Whom  I  beseche  to 
preserve  yow  and  yours. 

Wretyn  at  Norwyche,  thys  Wednysday  in  Estern  Week. 
By  your  sone  and  servaunt, 

J.  p- 


129 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


869 

WILLIAM  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  ^ 

To  my  right  worshupfull  sistir^  Margaret  Paston. 

1475     T^  IGHT  worshupfull  sustir,   I   recomaunde   me   to   you, 
APRIL  7      r^       praying  you  to   undirstonde,  the   priour  of  Brome- 
■^  holme  hath  sent  ayen  to  me  for  xx//. ;  and  my  cosyn 

William  Whyte  desired  me  to  wryte  to  you  for  the  rewarde 
that  was  offird  hym  to  his  churche  and  xx//,  of  my  brothirs 
goodys  to  be  lent  hym  upon  sufficient  suertee,  and  by  a  yeeris 
endc  payd  ayen  ;  he  hath  and  may  doo  for  you  and  for  my 
nevewe,  Sir  John,  in  many  thynges,  and  is  his  kynnesman,  and 
it  were  a  gode  frendely  dede  and  no  jopardy  nor  hurt.  The 
Abbot  of  Wymondham  hath  sent  to  me  too  tymes.  Frend- 
ship  may  not  hang  by  the  wynde,  nor  for  faire  eyne,  but 
causis  must  be  shewid;  men  wene  that  I  hadd  your  coffers 
and  my  brothirs  and  maistir  FastolfFes  in  myne  awarde,  and 
that  ye  wote  wele,  &c.  Send  your  avise  to  my  nevewe,  Sir 
John,  by  the  next  messynger.  Ye  sent  to  me  oonys  for  the 
same  mater,  but  I  may  not  leene  my  money  to  defende  othir 
men  is  causis;  your  discrecion  (?)  thenkith  that  it  were  no 
reason.  I  have  tolde  them  your  saying ;  and  as  it  is  s[o]  that 
ye  may  nat  come  to  the  coffers  but  all  be  togedir.  Therfor 
ye  must  sende  to  my  nevewe  and  to  Arblastir  how  ye  will 
have  this  answerd  ;  for  the  Abbot  will  be  heere  on  Monday  at 
the  sene,  and  labour  must  bee  desired  the  next  terme.  Hit 
nedis  nat  to  put  you  in  remembrance  of  my  mater  touch- 
yng  my  Fadirs  soule,  my  modir  and  me,  and  God  kepe  you. 
Wreton  at  Norwich  the  vij'^  day  of  Aprill. 

I  have  tolde  thes  folkis,  as  ye  have  seid  to  me  all  weys, 
that  your  will  is  gode,  but  that  ye  may  not  come  theretoo 
withoute  th'assent  of  all  your  felowes. 

1  [Add.  MS,  34.,889,  f.  215.]  As  Margaret  Paston,  at  the  date  of  this  letter,  is 
not  at  Norwich  and  her  son  Sir  John  seems  to  be  there,  we  may  infer  that  it  was 
written  in  the  year  1475.     See  No.  868  (preliminary  note). 

230 


EDWARD  IV 

Item,  I  pray  you  remembre  the  obligacion  that  Wix  hath,  1475 
and  that  I  may  have  my  money  of  the  parsone  of  Maudeby. —  april  7 
By  your  brothir,  William  Paston. 


870 
EDMUND  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

'To  John  Paston^  Esquyer. 

SYR,  I  recummawnd  me  to  zow.  Please  yt  zow  to  wette  I475(?) 
that  my  modyr  hathe  causyd  me  to  putte  Gregory  owte  ['^ay  13] 
of  my  servyse,  as,  God  help,  I  wry  the  to  zow  the  very 
cause  why.  Yt  happyd  hym  to  have  a  knavys  loste,  in  pleyn 
termes  to  swhyve  a  quene,  and  so  dyd  in  the  Konyneclosse. 
Yt  fortunyd  hym  to  be  a  spyed  be  ij.  plowemen  of  my 
modyrs,  whyche  werne  as  fayne  as  he  of  that  mater,  and 
desyerd  hym  to  have  parte,  and  as  kompany  requeryd,  seyd 
not  nay;  in  so  myche  that  the  plowemen  had  her  alle  a  nythe 
in  ther  stabylle,  and  Gregory  was  clere  delyvered  of  her,  and 
as  he  swherys  had  not  a  do  with  her  within  my  modyrs  place. 
Not  with  standdyng  my  modyr  thynkks  that  he  was  grownd 
of  that  matier  ;  wherfor  ther  is  no  remedy  but  he  moste 
a  voyde.  And  in  so  myche  that  at  the  laste  tyme  that  ze  wer 
her,  [ye]  desyerd  hym  of  me,  yf  that  he  schuld  departe  from 
me,  I  send  zow  the  very  cawse  of  hys  departyng,  as  my  modyr 
sethe ;  but  I  am  in  serteyn  the  contrary  is  true.  Yt  is  nomor 
but  that  he  can  not  plese  all  partys.  But  that  jantylman  ^  is 
hys  woords  Lord,  he  hathe  seyd  that  he  woold  lyfte  them 
whom  that  hym  plese,  and  as  that  scheweyt  welle,  he  lyftyd 

1  [From  Fenn,  iii.  426.]  This  letter  was  wrongly  attributed  by  Fenn  to  Edmund 
Paston,  son  of  the  Judge.  It  is  in  the  hand  of  the  Judge's  grandson,  also  named 
Edmund,  and  was  written  at  a  time  when  his  mother  Margaret  was  living  at  Mautby, 
where  he,  the  writer,  was  also  at  the  time,  though  he  expected  to  join  his  brother 
John,  to  whom  he  writes,  in  the  following  week.  These  circumstances  strongly 
suggest  that  it  was  written  in  1475,  when  Margaret  Paston  certainly  was  residing  at 
Mautby,  as  we  find  Edmund  Paston  with  his  brother  John  in  London  a  month  later 
preparing  to  go  over  to  Calais.  See  No.  873.  Whitsun  Eve  in  1475  would  be  the 
13th  May. 

2  Fenn  supposes  the  person  alluded  to  to  be  the  priest,  James  Gloys. 

231 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

I475(?)  ^^^  [p>te]  xiiij.  myle  in  a  mornyng,  and  nowe  he  hath  ben  caw 
[may  13]  sar  of  hys  lyfte,  I  wot  not  how  far,  but  j^  that  ze  be  hys  better 
master  ;  but  and  we  a  mong  us  geve  not  hym  a  lyfte,  I  pray 
God  that  we  never  thryve.  And  that  is  hys  intente,  I  trowe, 
to  bryng  us  to  ;  wherfor  I  requer  zow,  yf  that  yt  plese  zow  to 
have  hym,  that  ze  wylle  be  the  better  master  to  hym  for  my 
sake,  for  I  am  he  that  is  as  sory  to  departe  from  hym  as  any 
man  on  lyve  from  hys  servant,  and  be  my  trowthe,  as  far- 
forthe  as  I  knowe,  he  is  as  true  as  any  on  lyve. 

I  troste  my  fortune  schale  be  better  than  ever  to  leve 
thus  her;  but  yf  I  wer  hens  wards,  I  ensuer  zow  I  wold  not 
schange  for  none  that  I  knowe.  He  is  profytabylle  on  dyvers 
thynggs  as  ze  knowe  welle. 

Ther  has  ben  a  gret  breke  be  twyx  Calle  and  me,  as  I 
schal    enforme    zow    at    my    coming,    wyche    schalle    be    on 
Wedynsday  next  be  the  grace  of  God,  who  preserve  zow. 
Wretyn  at  Mawteby,  on  Wyteson  eve. 

Edmond  Paston. 


871 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

Un  to  Syr  John  Paston^  he  this  delyvered  in  hast. 

1475  I  '\  YGHT  welbelovyd  son,  I  grete  you  well,  and  send  you 
MAY  23  rC  Cristes  blissyng  and  myne,  desyringe  to  know  how  ye 
faire.  I  mervaile  that  I  have  herd  no  tydynges  from 
you  sythe  ye  sent  me  the  lettyr  of  an  answere  of  the  xx//. 
the  which  I  have  layde  pleages  for  to  my  cosyn  Cleere,  the 
which  letter  was  wryten  the  xxij'^  day  of  Februar  ;  and  as  for 
that  money,  I  can  not  gete  no  lenger  day  therof  than  Myd- 
somer,  or  fourte  nyght  after;  and  towardys  that  money,  and 
the  xx'^7z.  that  I  send  yow  by  syde  to  London  by  Sym,  I  have 

1  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  is  endorsed  <Mens'  Maii,  anno  xv°.' 
The  date  is  confirmed  by  the  fact  that  in  1475  the  Tuesday  after  Trinity  Sunday  was 
the  23  rd  of  May. 

232 


EDWARD  IV 

receyved  no  mor  money  of  yowres,  but  as  moch  as  I  send  1475 
yow  wry  ten  in  this  letter.  And  as  for  any  discharge  that  I  ^^^  23 
promysed  at  the  boroeng  off  the  xx"//.  when  I  leyde  the 
pleages  ther  fore,  I  thought  not  but  that  your  uncle  shuld  a 
boroed  them  owte,  and  I  to  have  had  my  pleages,  as  well  as 
he  his  ;  never  the  less  I  shall  be  the  warer  how  I  shall  dele  here 
aftyr.  By  my  trowth,  I  wote  not  how  to  do  ther  fore ;  the 
Kyng  goth  so  nere  us  in  this  cuntre,  both  to  pooer  and 
ryche,  that  I  wote  not  how  we  shall  lyfF,  but  yflF  [^unless']  the 
world  amend.  God  amend  it,  whan  His  wyll  is.  We  ^  can 
nother  sell  corne  ner  catell  to  no  good  preve.  Malt  is  here 
but  at  xd.  a  comb ;  wheete,  a  comb  xxviij^a'. ;  ootes,  a  comb  xd.  ; 
and  ther  of  is  but  lytell  to  geet  here  at  thys  tyme.  William 
Pecok  shall  send  you  a  byll  what  he  hath  payde  for  yow  for  ij. 
taskes  at  this  tyme  ;  and  how  he  hath  purveyde  for  the  rem- 
naunte  of  your  corne ;  and  also  off  other  thynges  that  be 
necessary  that  shuld  be  purveyd  for  in  your  absence.  Send 
me  word  also  whome  ye  wyll  desyre  to  do  for  yow  in  this 
contre,  or  ellys  where  in  your  absence ;  and  wryte  to  them  to 
do  for  yow,  and  they  wyll  be  the  better  wylled  to  do  for  yow ; 
and  I  wyll  do  my  devyr  for  yow  also,  as  well  as  I  can. 

The  somma  off  money  that  I  have  receyvyd  off  Wylliam 
Pecok: — First,  x\s.  off  Runnham.  Item,  off  Bastwyk,  xxs. 
Item,  off  Runnham,  xx^.  Item,  off  him  for  barly  at  Runn- 
ham, xxj-.  Item,  off  the  fyschynge  at  Bastwyke,  xiijV.  injcL 
Item,  for  barely  sold  at  Runnham,  viijj.  Summa  totahs,  vj//. 
xvj<^. 

Item,  I  have  receyvyd  of  Ric.  Calle,  of  Sporle  wodd,  xxvjj. 
viijV.,  and  more  shall  I  hope  here  aftyr  within  short  tyme ;  as 
I  receyve  for  yow,  I  hope  to  yeff  yow  a  trew  acownt ;  and 
this  is  all  that  I  have  receyvyd  for  yow  zytt,  sen  ye  departyd 
hens.  God  bryng  yow  well  ageyn  to  this  contre,  to  His 
pleasans,  and  to  your  wurshyp  and  profyzt. 

Wryten  at  Mawteby,  the  xxiij'^  day  of  May,  and  the 
Tewsday  next  afftyr  Trinyte  Sonday, 

For  Goddes  love,  and  your  brether  go  over  the  see,  avyse 
them  as  ye  thynk  best  for  her  [M(?/r]  save  garde.     For  some 

*  fTe.     Originally  written  /,  and  corrected. 

^33 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1 47  5    of  them  be  but  yonge  sawgeres,  and  wote  full  lytyll  what  yt 

MAY  23    meneth  to  be  as  a  sauger,  nor  for  to  endure  to  do  as  a  sawger 

shuld  do.     God  save  yow  all,  and  send  me  good  tythynges  of 

yow  all.     And  send  ye  me  word  in  hast  how  ye  doo,  for  I 

thynk  longe  to  I  here  off  yow.  Be  youre  Modyr. 

Item,  I  wold  not  in  no  wyse  that  ye  shuld  nother  sell 
nor  sett  to  pleage  that  ye  have  in  Runnham,  what  som  ever 
fortune  of  the  remnaund ;  for  yt  is  a  praty  thyng,  and  reson- 
able  well  payde,  and  nere  thys  towne.  I  wold  be  ryght  sory 
that  ye  shuld  for  here  that ;  I  had  lever  ye  for  bore  that  your 
uncle  hath  to  morgage  than  that. 


872 
ABSTRACTS  1 

Norfolk  and  Suffolk  Deeds,  No.   13. 

MAY  28  'Johannes  Paston  miles  relaxat  Willielmo  Wynton'  episc.   et  aliis  totum 

jus  de  et  in  manerio  de  Tichwell,  Essex  in  Hickling,  Guton,  Beyton,  Newton, 
Calcotes  in  Fretton,  Leyestoft,  Habeland,  Brodeston,  et  Gorleston.  Maii  28, 
Edw.  IV.  15.* 

No.  32. 

*  Charta  Johannis  Paston  militis  de  terris  Johannis  Fastolf  pert,  praedict. 
Johanni,  et  continens  concessionem  quarundam  evidentiarum  episcopo  Winton', 
et  relaxationem  orationum,  actionum,  et  demandarum  versus  praedictum  epis- 
copum.      Maii  28,  Edw.  iv.  15.' 


1  [From  MS.  Index  In  Magd.  Coll.,  Oxford]. 


234 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1 47  5    of  them  be  but  yonge  sawgeres,  and  wote  full  lytyll  what  yt 

MAY  23    meneth  to  be  as  a  sauger,  nor  for  to  endure  to  do  as  a  sawger 

shuld  do.     God  save  yow  all,  and  send  me  good  tythynges  of 

yow  all.     And  send  ye  me  word  in  hast  how  ye  doo,  for  I 

thynk  longe  to  I  here  off  yow.  Be  youre  Modyr. 

Item,  I  wold  not  in  no  wyse  that  ye  shuld  nother  sell 
nor  sett  to  pleage  that  ye  have  in  Runnham,  what  som  ever 
fortune  of  the  remnaund ;  for  yt  is  a  praty  thyng,  and  reson- 
able  well  payde,  and  nere  thys  towne.  I  wold  be  ryght  sory 
that  ye  shuld  for  bere  that ;  I  had  lever  ye  for  bore  that  your 
uncle  hath  to  morgage  than  that. 


872 

ABSTRACTS  1 

Norfolk  and  Suffolk  Deeds,  No.    13. 

MAY  28  'Johannes  Paston  miles  relaxat  Willielmo  Wynton'  episc.  et  aliis  totum 

jus  de  et  in  manerio  de  Tichwell,  Essex  in  Hickling,  Guton,  Beyton,  Newton, 
Calcotes  in  Fretton,  Leyestoft,  Habeland,  Brodeston,  et  Gorleston.  Maii  28, 
Edw.  IV.  15.* 

No.  32. 

'  Charta  Johannis  Paston  militis  de  terris  Johannis  Fastolf  pert,  prasdict. 
Johanni,  et  continens  concessionem  quarundam  evidentiarum  episcopo  Winton', 
et  relaxationem  orationum,  actionum,  et  demandarum  versus  praedictum  epis- 
copum.     Maii  28,  Edw.  iv.  15.' 


[From  MS.  Index  in  Magd.  Coll.,  Oxford]. 


234 


EDWARD  IV 


873 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  AND  EDMUND 

PASTONi 

'To  John  Paston,  or  to  hys  brother  Edmond  Paston^ 
at  the  George^  at  Powles  Wharf. 

BROTHER  Edmonde,  it  is  soo  that  I  heer  telle  that  ye  1475 
be  in  hope  to  come  hyddre,  and  to  be  in  suche  wages  june  13 
as  ye  schall  come  lyve  lyke  a  jentylman,  wheroff  I 
wolde  be  gladde.  WherfFor,  for  yowr  better  speede,  I  lete 
you  weete  that  Heugh  Beamond  is  deed ;  wherffor  I  wolde 
ye  had  hys  roome  nowe  or  never,  iff  ye  can  brynge  it  abowt ; 
ellys  iff  ye  dispose  yowe  to  abyde  in  Inglonde,  syns  it  is  so 
that  the  Bysshop  of  Lynkolne  ^  is  Chaunceler,  hys  servyse  is 
the  meter  for  yow;  he  is  next  neyghbour  to  Norffolk  off  any 
astate.     God  sende  yow  some  good  warde  of  hys. 

I  praye  you,  iff  yowr  leyser  be  ther  aftre  to  remembre 
Towneshende,  that  he,  with  the  advyse  and  assystence  of  my 
Master  of  the  Rollys,^  have  one  daye  off  marche  with  the 
slawe  Bysshop  of  Wynchester,  that  he  maye  kepe  me  hys 
promyse,  that  is  to  seye,  to  entrete  the  Duke  and  Duchesse  of 
Norffolk  for  Caster.  He  promysed  to  doo  it,  and  to  ley  owt 
an  Qli.  for  the  same. 

Item,  I  praye  yow  sende  me  some  tydynges  within  v. 
dayes  aftre  that  ye  see  thys  bylle. 

Wretyn  at  Caleys,  the  xiij.  daye  off  June. 

John  Paston,  K. 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  must  have  been  written  in  the  year 
1475,  when,  as  will  be  seen  by  No.  871,  some  of  Sir  John  Paston's  brothers,  among 
whom  doubtless  were  both  John  and  Edmund,  to  whom  this  letter  is  addressed,  were 
going  over  to  Calais.  The  Bishop  of  Lincoln  (Rotherham)  was  Chancellor  in  1475. 
It  is  true  the  Great  Seal  was  taken  from  him  on  the  27th  April,  and  given  to  Alcock, 
Bishop  of  Rochester,  until  the  28th  September,  when  it  was  restored  to  Rotherham. 
But  it  is  certain  this  letter  could  not  have  been  written  in  a  later  year,  as  the  Duke  of 
Norfolk  died  in  January  1476. 

*  Thomas  Rotherham.  *  See  p.  219,  Note  2. 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


874 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  the  right  worshipffull  Sir  John  Paston^  Knyght, 

in  haste. 

1 47^     TTJ  IGHT  welbeloved  sone,  &c. 
AUG.  10 


R 


2 


3 


As  for  tidyngs  here  in  this  centre,  we  have  non,  but  that 
the  contry  is  bareyn  of  money  ;  and  that  my  Lady  of  Yorke 
and  all  her  howsold  is  here  at  Sent  Benetts,*  and  purposed  to 
abide  there  stille,  til  the  Kynge  come  from  be  yonde  the  see, 
and  lenger  if  she  like  the  eyre  ther,  as  it  is  seide. 

I  thynke  ryght  longe  tille  I  here  some  tidyngs  for  \ciucere., 
from  ?]  you  and  from  your  brethren.  I  prey  God  sende  you 
and  al  your  company  goode  spede  in  your  journeys,  to  His 
plesure,  and  to  your  worshippes  and  profights. 

Wreten  at  Mauteby,  on  Sen  Lawrens  Even,  the  xv.  yere 
of  the  regne  of  Kyng  E.  the  iiijth. 

Be  yor  Moder. 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  i8o.] 

2  The  chief  part  of  this  letter  relates  to  Sir  John  Paston's  private  affairs,  his  rents 
and  lands,  and  informs  him  that  William  Jenney  had  entered  into  Holme  Halle,  in 
Filby,  'in  the  ryght  and  titell  of  his  doiiterlawe,  weche  was  Boys  doughter,'  etc. — F. 

3  Cecily,  Duchess  of  York,  daughter  of  Ralph  Neville,  Earl  of  Westmoreland, 
was  the  widow  of  Richard  Plantagenet,  Duke  of  York,  and  mother  of  King  Edward 
IV.,  etc.  She  died  in  1495,  and  was  buried  near  her  husband  in  the  college  of 
Fotheringay. — F. 

*  The  Abbey  of  St.  Bennet  at  Holm. 


236 


EDWARD  IV 

875 

SIR  JOHN  P ASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTONi 

To  Mesiresse  Margret  Paston,  at  Norwyche. 

RYGHT  reverend  and  my  most  tendre  and  kynde  moodre,  1475 
I  recomaunde  me  to  yow.  Please  it  yow  to  weete  that,  ^^^'^-  ^  ^ 
blessyd  be  God,  thys  wyage  of  the  Kynges  is  fynysshyd 
for  thys  tyme,  and  alle  the  Kynges  ost  is  comen  to  Caleys  as 
on  Monday e  last  past,  that  is  to  seye,  the  iiij.  daye  of  Septem- 
bre  ;  and  at  thys  daye  many  of  hys  host  be  passyd  the  see  in 
to  Inglond  ageyn,  and  in  especiall  my  Lorde  off  Norffolk  and 
my  bretheryn. 

Item,  I  was  in  goode  hope  to  have  hadde  Caster  ageyn. 
The  Kynge  spake  to  my  Lorde  off  Norffolk  for  it,  and  it  was 
full  lyke  to  have  comyn  ;  but  in  conclusyon  it  is  delayed  tyll 
this  next  terme,  by  whyche  tyme  the  Kynge  hat  comaundyd 
hyrn  to  take  advyce  off  hys  councell,  and  to  be  sywer  that  hys 
tytle  be  goode,  or  ellys  the  Kyng  hathe  asserteynyd  hym  that 
for  any  favor  he  most  do  me  ryght  and  justyce,  &c. 

And  iff  Caster  hadde  comen,  by  my  feythe  I  had  comyn 
streyhte  home.  Notwithstondyng,  iff  I  may  do  yow  servyce 
or  eese,  as  ye  and  I  have  comonyd  heer  to  foor,  aftre  as  I  heer 
from  yow,  as  God  helpe  me,  I  purpose  to  leeffe  alle  heer,  and 
come  home  to  yow,  and  be  yowr  hosbonde  and  balyff ;  wher  in 
I  spake  to  my  brother  John  to  telle  yow  myn  advyce. 

I  also  mysselyke  somwhat  the  heyr  heer  ;  for  by  my  trowte 
I  was  in  goode  heele  whan  I  come  hyddre,  and  all  hooll,  and 
to  my  wetyng  I  hadde  never  a  better  stomake  in  my  lyffe,  and 
now  with  in  viij.  dayes  I  am  crasyd  ageyn.  I  suppose  that  I 
most  be  at  London  at  Mychelmesse,  and  ther  to  purveye  for 
payment  for  myn  oncle  William,  by  whyche  tyme  I  praye  yow 
that  I  may  heer  from  yow  and  off  yowr  advyce  and  helpe,  iff 
any  thynge  be  growyn  off  Sporle  woode.     For  had  nott  yit 

1  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]     It  is  evident  that  this  letter  was  written  after  the 
return  of  King  Edward  iv.  from  France  in  1475. 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1475     that  danger  have  been,  I  mygh  yit  have  ben  at  home  with  yow 
SEPT.  II   at  thys  daye,  or  with  in  vij.  dayes  aftre.     No  more,  but  I 
beseche  Jesus  have  yow  in  kepyng. 

Wretyn  at  Caleys,  the  xj.  daye  of  Septembre. 

John  Paston,  K. 

876 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  the  ryght  worchepfull  Sir  John  Paston,  Knyght,  lodgyd 
at  the  George,  by  Powlys  Wherf,  in  London. 

OCT.  10  I  '\  YGHT  werchepfull  sir,  I  recomand  me  to  yow,  sertyfy- 
jr^  ing  yow  that  I  have  comonyd  with  Barnard  and  other 
your  wellwyllers  with  my  Lord  of  NorfFolk,  whyche 
avise  me  that  ye  shold,  for  your  nyghest  meane  to  get  Caster 
a  yen,  labore  to  get  a  lettre  fro  the  Kyng  dyrect  to  R.  Sothewell, 
Jamys  Hubbard,  and  other  of  my  lordys  consayll  being,  and  to 
iche  of  theym  ;  and  in  the  seyd  letter  to  lete  theym  have  know- 
lage  that  the  Kyng  mevyd  to  my  lord  of  the  seyd  mater  beyond 
the  see,  and  hough  my  lord  answerd  the  Kyng  that  at  hys 
comyng  in  to  Inglond  he  wold  meve  to  hys  seyd  consayll  of  the 
seyd  mater,  and  geve  the  Kyng  an  answer,  Wherfor  the  Kyng 
in  the  seyd  lettyr  must  streyghtly  charge  theym,  and  iche  of 
theym,  to  comon  with  my  lord  in  the  seyd  mater  in  syche 
wyse  that  the  Kyng  may  be  sertyfyed  of  an  answer  fro  my  lord 
and  theym  at  the  ferthest  by  crastino  Animarum  ; "  for  Suthewell 
nor  Jamys  Hubbard  shall  not  be  at  London  befor  Halowmass, 
and  thys  is  the  best  wey  that  ye  may  take,  as  we  thynke  here. 
My  lady  sweryth,  and  so  dothe  Barnard  on  hyr  behalff, 
that  she  wold  as  fayne  ye  had  it  as  eny  body  ;  notwithstandyng 
she  seyd  not  so  to  me,  sythe  I  cam  hom,  for  I  spak  not  with 
hyr  but  onys  sythe  I  sye  yow  last.  Yet  she  lythe  in  Norwyche, 
and  shall  do  tyll  she  be  delyverd  ;  but  I.  have  be  seek  ever  sythe 
I  cam  on  thys  syd  the  see,  but  I  trust  hastyly  to  amend  for  all 
my  seknesse  that  I  had  at  Caleys,  and  sythe  I  cam  over  also, 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

2  The  Morrow  of  All  Souls,  i.e.  ycA  November. 

238 


EDWARD  IV 

cam  but  of  cold.  But  I  was  never  so  well  armyd  for  the  werre  1475 
as  I  have  now  armyd  me  for  cold  ;  wherfor  I  avyse  yow,  take  o*^"^-  ^° 
exampyll  by  me,  if  it  happyn  yow  to  be  seek,  as  ye  wer  when  I 
was  at  Caleys,  in  eny  wyse  kepe  yow  warme.  I  weene  Herry 
Woodhous  nor  Jamys  Arblaster  ware  never  at  onys  so  many 
cotys,  hose,  and  botewx  as  I  doo,  or  ellys  by  God  we  had  gone 
therfor.  What  we  shall  yet  I  can  not  sey,  but  I  bere  me  bold 
on  ij.  dayes  amendyng. 

My  modyr  sendyth  yow  Godes  blyssing  and  hers,  and  she 
wold  fayne  have  yow  at  home  with  hyr  ;  and  if  ye  be  onys 
mette,  she  tellyth  me  ye  shall  not  lyghtly  depart  tyll  dethe 
depart  yow. 

As  I  was  wryghtyng  thys  lettyr,  on  told  me  that  the  Kyng 
shold  be  at  *Walsyngham  thys  next.^  If  it  be  so,  it  wer  best 
for  yow  to  awayte  on  the  Kyng  all  the  wey,  and  if  ye  have  not 
men  and  horse  i  nowghe  I  shall  send  yow.  Do  as  ye  thynk 
best  ;  and  as  ye  wyll  have  me  to  do,  send  me  your  avyse,  and 
I  shall  accomplyshe  it  to  my  power,  with  Godes  grace.  Who 
preserve  yow. 

Wretyn  at  Norwyche,  the  x.  day  of  October,  anno  xv° 
E. 


iiij". 


2 


P.J, 

877 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 

To  Sir  John  Paston^  Knyght^  lodgyd  at  the 
George^  by  Powlys  Wherff^  in  London. 

AFTYR  all  dwtes  of  recomendacyon,  please  it  yow  to  oct.  23 
undyrstand  that  I  have  spoken  with  my  lady  *  sythe  I 
wrot  to  yow  last ;  and  she  told  me  that  the  Kyng  had 
no  syche  woordys  to  my  lord  for  Caster,  as  ye  told  me  ;  but 
she  seyth  that  the  Kyng  axid  my  lord  at  hys  departyng  fro 
Caleys,  how  he  wold  deele  with  Caster,  and  my  lord  answerd 
nevyr  a  woord. 

1  So  in  MS.     ^-t  the  word  '  week  '  omitted  ? 

2  It  is  curious  that  John  Paston  has  here  reversed  his  initials. 

3  [From  Fenn,  ii.  182.]  *  The  Duchess  of  Norfolk. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1475  Sir  W.  Brandon^  stood  by,  and  the  Kyng  axid  hym  what 

OCT.  23  i-ny  lord  wold  do  in  that  mater  ;  seying  that  he  had  comandyd 
hym  befor  tyme  to  meve  my  lord  with  that  mater,  and  Sir  W. 
Brandon  gave  the  Kyng  to  answer  that  he  had  doone  so  ;  then 
the  Kyng  axid  Sir  W.  B.  what  my  lordys  answer  was  to  hym, 
and  Sir  W.  B,  told  the  Kyng  that  my  lords  answer  was  that 
the  Kyng  shold  as  soone  have  hys  lyff  as  that  place  ;  and 
then  the  Kyng  axid  my  lord  whedyr  he  seyd  so  or  nought,  and 
my  lord  seyd,  yee.  And  the  Kyng  seyd  not  a  woord  ayen,  but 
tornyd  hys  bak,  and  went  hys  wey ;  but  my  lady  told  me,  and 
the  Kyng  had  spokyn  any  woord  in  the  world  aftyr  that  to  my 
lord,  my  lord  wold  not  have  seyd  hym  nay.  And  I  have 
gevyn  my  lady  warnyng  that  I  wyll  do  my  lord  no  more 
serveys  ;  but  er  we  partyd,  she  mad  me  to  make  hyr  promess 
that  I  shold  let  hyr  have  knowlege  er  1  fastonyd  myselff  in  eny 
other  servysse  ;  and  so  I  departyd,  and  sye  hyr  not  syness,  nor 
nought  purpose  to  doo,  tyll  I  spek  with  yow. 

I  prey  yow  bryng  home  some  hattys  with  yow,  or  and  ye 
come  not  hastyly,  send  me  on,  &c.,  and  I  shall  pay  yow  for  it 
a  comb  otys  ^  when  ye  come  home. 

My  modyr  wold  fayn  have  yow  at  Mawtby  ;  she  rode 
thydyr  ought  of  Norwyche  on  Saturday  last  past,  to  purvey 
your  lodgyng  redy  ayenst  your  comyng. 

I  have  been  ryght  seek  ayen  sythe  I  wroote  to  yow  last,  and 
thys  same  day  have  I  ben  pessyng  seek  ;  it  wyll  not  ought  of 
my  stomak  by  no  mean.  I  am  undon.  I  may  not  ete  halff  i 
nough,  when  I  have  most  hungyr,  I  am  so  well  dyettyd,  and 
yet  it  wyll  not  be.  God  send  yow  heele,  for  [I]  have  non  iij. 
dayes  to  gedyr,  do  the  best  I  can. 

Wretyn  at  Norwyche,  the  Monday  next  be  for  Seynt 
Simone  and  Jude,^  anno  E.  iiij.  xv°. 

jp- 

1  Sir  William  Brandon  was  the  grandfather  of  Henry  viii/s  favourite,  Charles 
Brandon,  Duke  of  Suffolk.  Footnote  2  on  p.  156,  taken  from  Fenn,  is  wrong. 
Charles  Brandon's  father,  who  was  slain  at  Bosworth,  was  another  Sir  William, 
knighted  by  the  Earl  of  Richmond  before  the  battle. 

2  In  1475  a  comb  of  oats  sold  for  iid. ;  we  have  therefore  the  value  of  a  hat  in 
this  reign. — F.  In  No.  871  the  price  of  oats  is  given  as  lod.  a  comb,  but  the  markets 
are  considered  to  be  bad.  s  28th  of  October. 

240 


EDWARD  IV 

878 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON^ 

AFTYR  all  dewtes  of  recomendacyon,  in  as  humbyll  wyse  ^475 
as  I  can,  I  beseche  yow  of  your  blyssyng.  The  cheff 
cause  that  I  wryght  to  yow  for  at  thys  season  is,  for 
that  I  undyrstand  that  my  lady  ^  wold  be  ryght  glad  to  have 
yow  a  bought  hyr  at  hyr  labore  ;  in  so  myche  that  she  hathe 
axyd  the  questyon  of  dyvers  gentyllwomen  whedyr  they  thought 
that  ye  wold  awayte  on  hyr  at  that  season  or  nought,  and  they 
answerd  that  they  durst  sey  that  ye  wold,  with  ryght  good  wyll, 
awayte  on  hyr  at  that  tyme,  and  at  all  other  seasons  that  she 
wold  comand  yow.  And  so  I  thynk  that  my  lady  wyll  send 
for  yow  ;  and  if  it  wer  your  ease  to  be  here,  1  wold  be  ryght 
glad  that  ye  myght  be  here,  for  I  thynk  your  being  here  shold 
do  gret  good  to  my  brodyrs  maters  that  he  hathe  to  sped  with 
hyr.  Wherfor,  for  Godes  sake,  have  your  horse  and  all  your 
gere  redy  with  yow,  whersoever  ye  be,  ought  or  at  home,  and 
as  for  men,  ye  shall  nott  need  many,  for  I  wyll  come  for  yow, 
and  awayte  on  yow  my  sylf,  and  on  or  ij.  with  me  ;  but  I  had 
need  to  undyrstand  wher  to  fynd  yow,  or  ellys  I  shall  happyly 
seeke  yow  at  Mautby,  when  ye  be  at  Freton,  and  my  lady 
myght  then  fortune  to  be  ferforthe  on  hyr  jorney  or  ye  cam, 
if  she  wer  as  swyfte  as  ye  wer  onys  on  Good  Fryday. 

And  as  for  the  mater  in  the  latter  end  of  my  brodyr  Sir 
Johnys  lettyr,  me  thynk  he  takyth  a  wronge  wey,  if  he  go  so 
to  werk  ;  for  as  for  the  peopyll  here,  I  undyrstand  non  other 
but  that  all  folkys  here  be  ryght  well  dysposyd  towardes  that 
mater,  fro  the  hyghest  degre  to  the  lowest,  except  Robart 
Brandon  and  John  Colvyll ;  and  it  is  a  grete  lyklyhod  that  the 
grettest  body  is  well  dysposyd  towardes  that  mater,  in  as 
myche  as  they  wold  put  yow  to  the  labore  above  wretyn,  and 
if  they  wer  not,  I  thynk  they  wold  not  put  yow  to  that 
labore. 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]     This  letter  seems  to  have  been  written  shortly  before 
the  confinement  of  the  Duchess  of  Nortblk  in  December  1475. 

2  The  Duchess  of  Norfolk. 

VOL,  v. Q  241 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1475  Also  here  was  here  with  me  yesterday  a  man  fro  the  Priour 

of  Bromholme  to  lete  me  have  knowlage  of  the  ille  speche 
whyche  is  in  the  centre  now  of  new,  that  the  tombe  is  not  mad  ; 
and  also  he  seythe  that  the  clothe  that  lythe  over  the  grave  is 
all  toryn  and  rotyn,  and  is  not  worth  ij^.,  and  he  seythe  he 
hathe  pachyd  it  onys  or  twyis.  Wherfor  the  Pryour  hathe 
sent  to  yow  at  the  leest  to  send  thedyr  a  newe  clothe  a  yenst 
Estern. 

Also  Mastyr  Sloley  prayith  yow,  for  Godes  sake,  and  ye 
wyll  do  non  almess  of  tylle  \_iile']  that  he  myght  borow  some  of 
yow  tyll  he  may  bye  some,  and  pay  yow  ayen  ;  for  on  \_one']  the 
fayrist  chambyrs  of  the  Fryers,  standyth  half  oncoverd  for 
defaulte  of  tylle,  for  her  is  yett  non  to  get  for  no  money.  And 
the  Holy  Trynyte  have  yow  in  kepyng. 

At  Norwyche,  thys  Twysday. 

Your  sone  and  humbyll  servaunt, 

J.  Paston. 

879 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  EDWARD  IV.i 

[^To  the  King]  our  souverain  Lord. 

[Sheweth]  unto  your  highnesse  your  feythful  liegeman 
and  servaunt,  John  Paston,  Knight,  that  wher  Sir  William 
Yelverton,  William  Jenney,  and  Thomas  Howes  were  infefFed 
in  certain  ....  [to  the]  use  of  your  said  suppliaunt, 
they  of  grat  malice  confetered  with  oon  or  ij,  of  the  counsell  of 
my  lord  the  Due  of  Norffolk,  caused  the  same  Due  to  clayme 
tytle  unto  [the  manojir  of  Caster  and  other  lands  of  your  said 
suppliant,  wherinne  the  said  Yelverton  and  his  coofefFees  wer 

*  [From  a  ms.  in  the  Bodleian  Library.]  The  Castle  of  Caister  was  surrendered 
to  the  Duke  of  Norfolk  in  September  1469,  but  he  must  have  been  taking  the  rents  of 
the  manor  for  a  year  or  two  before.  From  what  is  stated  in  this  petition,  the  Duke 
must  have  given  it  up  again  in  the  end  of  the  year  1470,/.^.  during  the  restoration  of 
Henry  vi.  ;  but  he  entered  again  after  half  a  year,  and  the  date  of  this  second  entry  is 
given  by  William  Worcester  as  the  23rd  June  147 1.  After  this,  the  petition  says,  he 
kept  possession  for  four  years  and  more,  so  that  the  date  of  the  document  must  be 
towards  the  close  of  the  year  1475.     The  Duke  died  on  the  17th  January  1476. 

242 


EDWARD  IV 

infeffed,  contrary  to  th'entent  and  wille  that  thei  wer  enfeffed  1475 
for  ;  upon  whiche  title  the  said  Due  with  great  force  asseyed 
and  entred  the  said  manoir  of  Castre  and  other  lands  of  your 
said  suppliant,  putting  hym  from  the  lawful  possession  and 
estate  that  he  had  in  the  same,  and  also  take  from  him  vj'^- 
shepe  and  xxx.  nete,  and  the  same,  with  other  stuf  and 
ordinaunces  longing  to  the  same  manoir,  of  the  value  of  Qli. 
toke  and  caryed  awey,  and  the  said  manoir  difFaced,  hurt,  and 
appeired,  so  that  it  coude  not  be  repaired  with  CC.  marc. 
Also  the  revenues  of  the  said  lands  by  the  space  of  iij. 
yeres,  to  the  value  of  vij''"'"//.,  the  same  my  lord  the  Duke 
receyved,  and  the  owtrents  of  the  same  never  payed,  whiche 
great  trouble  was  like  to  be  the  undoing  of  your  said  suppliant ; 
wherfor  he  was  fayn  to  sue  to  the  said  Due  and  lord  by  the 
meanes  of  his  godsip  the  Bisshop  of  Wynchestre,  whiche  was 
in  his  special  favour  ;  at  whos  contemplacion,  and  for  v*^-  [500] 
marc  whiche  the  same  your  suppliant  payed  unto  the  same 
Due,  he  graunted  him  to  have  agen  his  said  manoir  and  lands, 
and  to  restor  him  to  the  possession  of  the  same,  whiche  was  so 
doen.  And  your  said  suppliant  being  in  peasible  possession, 
my  said  lord  the  Due  and  his  cofeiFees,  Sir  William  Brandon, 
Thomas  Hoo,  Rauf  Ashton,  and  other,  at  the  desir  of  my  said 
lord,  relessed  their  estate  and  interesse,  as  wel  under  my  said 
lordes  sele  as  under  their  own  sele.  Wherupon  your  said 
besecher  continued  in  possession  but  half  a  yer  ;  at  whiche 
time  he  was  chargid  in  reparacions  to  the  somme  of  C.  marc, 
and  payed  the  owt  rents  dewe  by  the  space  of  the  said  iij.  yer 
to  the  some  of  xl//.  That  doon,  my  said  lord,  by  sinistre 
motive  and  advice,  with  force  agen  entred  the  said  manoir  and 
other  lands  aforsaid  with  alle  stuf  of  howshold  being  in  the 
same  manoir  to  the  value  of  C.  marc,  and  so  long  time  hath 
kept  and  rejoysed  the  revenues  of  the  said  lands,  and  in  chief 
the  said  manoir,  to  the  value  of  vj'"'7z.  by  the  space  of  iiij.  yer 
and  mor  ;  for  redresse  wherof  yor  said  suppliant  hath  this  said 
space  of  iiij.  yer  sued  to  my  said  lord  and  his  counsell,  and  of 
alle  that  time  the  same  my  lord  wold  never  suffre  him  to  come 
in  his  presence,  ne  here  him,  ne  noon  other  for  him  to  declair 
or  shewe  his  grief.     And  furthermor  whanne  your  said  besecher 

243 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1475  hath  sued  to  the  counsel  of  my  said  lord,  and  desired  them  to 
move  his  lordship  therinne,  and  to  answer  him  resonably  and 
according  to  right,  they  answered  that  thei  have  shewed  my 
said  lord  his  request,  and  that  he  was,  and  is  alwey,  so  moved 
and  displesed  with  them,  that  thei  dar  nomor  move  him 
therinne.  And  thus  yor  said  suppliant  hath  loste  alle  his  coste 
and  labour,  to  his  charge  by  his  feyth  this  iiij.  yer  in  his  sute, 
the  somme  of  v'^-  marc,  and  now  is  owt  of  remedye,  without 
your  habundant  grace  be  shewed  in  that  behalve,  in  somoche  as 
he  is  not  of  power  t'attempt  your  lawes  ayenst  so  mighty  and 
noble  estate,  nor  t'abide  the  disples  of  him.  Wherfor  please  it 
your  moost  noble  grace,  at  the  reverence  of  God,  to  move  my 
said  lord  to  withdrawe  the  affeccion  whiche  he  so  hath  to  the 
said  manoir  and  lands,  and  to  sufFre  your  said  besecher  to  have 
and  enjoye  the  possession  of  the  same  according  to  right ;  and 
he  at  your  commandment  shal  relesse  unto  my  said  lord  alle 
the  damages  above  wretyn,  whiche  amount  to  the  somme  of 
m'xcc.liij//.  vjj.  vnjt^.,  and  in  time  to  come,  with  Goddes  grace, 
be  the  mor  hable  to  do  you  service,  and  also  specially  preye  to 
God  for  the  conservacion  of  your  moost  noble  persone  and 
estate  royall. 

Endorsed  in  a  later  hand —     ....     Paston  mil.  Regi  pro     .... 
NorfF.  in de  Caister. 


880 

ABSTRACT 1 

Robert  Whynbergh  to  Sir  John   Paston 

Has  ridden  100  miles  to  get  out  the  obligation  of  Craksheld  and  Salter. 
Has  been  opposed  by  Mr.  Lovell,  as  they  are  his  tenants.  Understands  it  is 
in  my  lord's  closet,  and  the  tenants  are  warned  to  pay  no  money  without  it. 
They  keep  from  him  the  farm  of  the  Priors  Maner  as  well  as  Strehalle.^ 
Desires  him  to  write  to  Mr.  William  Paston  to  inform  my  lord  of  a  wrongful 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

2  Street-Hall  or  Straw  Hall,  in  Great  Cressingham,  was  one  of  the  manors  which 
belonged  to  Judge  Paston.  In  145 1,  Blomefield  tells  us  that  Walter  Paston,  clerk, 
gave  it  to  his  brother  John.  In  the  reign  of  Henry  viii.  Sir  William  Paston  sold  it  to 
Dame  Elizabeth  Fitzwilliams. — BlomeHeld,  vi.  99. 

244 


EDWARD  IV 

distress  taken  by  John  Markham  at  Strehall  in  Cressingham,  which  is  held  of  1 47 5 
the  King's  manor  of  Necton.  They  took  cattle  in  lambing  time  in  March, 
in  the  14th  year  of  this  King,  'and  put  Craksheld  and  Salter  in  such  fear  of 
losing  of  their  cattle  that  they  were  bound  to  my  lord  by  obligation,  and 
Craksheld  is  dead  for  thought.'  Will  take  the  letter  to  Mr.  William  though 
it  cost  him  fourteen  days'  labor.  Was  five  weeks  riding  '  to  Canterbury,  and 
again  I  will  no  longer  drive,  for  in  winter  I  may  not  ride,'  etc. 

[From  the  reference  to  'the  14th  year  of  this  Khig,'  it  is  evident  that  this  letter 
was  written  after  1474,  the  14th  year  of  Edward  iv.  It  may,  perhaps,  be  of  the  reign 
of  Henry  vii.  ;  in  which  case  it  was  addressed  to  the  younger  John  Paston,  who  was 
then  a  knight,  his  brother  being  dead,  about  the  year  1500.] 


881 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

LYKE  it  yow  to  weete,  that  not  in  the  most  happy  season  1476 
ffor  me,  it  is  so  ffortunyd,  that  wher  as  my  Lorde  off  Jan.  17 
Norffolke,  yisterdaye  beying  in  goode  heele,  thys  nyght 
dyed  abowte  mydnyght,  wherffor  it  is  ffor  alle  that  lovyd  hym 
to  doo  and  helpe  nowe  that,  that  maye  be  to  hys  honoure,  and 
weell  to  hys  sowele.  And  it  is  soo,  that  thys  centre  is  nott 
weell  purveyd  ofF  clothe  ofF  golde  ffor  the  coveryng  ffor  hys 
bodye  and  herse ;  wherffor  every  man  helpyng  to  hys  power,  I 
putte  the  cowncell  off  my  lorde  in  cowmffort,  that  I  hoped  to 
gete  one  ffor  that  daye,  if  it  weer  so  that  it  be  nott  broken,  or 
putt  to  other  use. 

Wherffor  please  it  yow  to  sende  me  worde  iff  it  be  so,  that 
ye  have,  or  kan  kom  by  the  clothe  off  tyssywe  that  I  bowte  ffor 
our  ffaders  tombe,  and  I  undretake  it  shall  be  saffyd  ageyn  ffor 
yowe  on  hurt  at  my  perell  ;  1  deeme  herby  to  gete  greet  thanke, 
and  greet  assystence  in  tyme  to  come  ;  and  that  owther  Syme 
or  Mother  Brown  maye  deliver  it  me  to  morow  by  vij.  off  the 
clokke. 

^  [From  Fenn,  ii.  186.]  This  letter  is  not  addressed,  but  must  have  been  intended 
for  the  writer's  brother  John,  or  else,  as  Fenn  suggests,  for  his  mother,  Margaret.  Sir 
John,  however,  ends  by  saying,  '  Within  four  days  I  hope  to  see  you  ' ;  and  it  appears 
by  next  letter  that  he  was  actually  with  his  brother  at  Norwich  within  three  days, 
whereas  he  paid  no  visit  to  his  mother,  who  seems  to  have  been  living,  as  she  had  done 
for  some  time,  at  Mautby.  This  letter  must  have  been  written  from  Framlingham, 
whither  Sir  John  had  doubtless  gone  to  petition  the  Duke  of  Norfolk  about  Caister, 

245 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1476  Item,  as  ffor  other  means,  I  have  sente  my  servaunt  Richard 

JAN.  17    Toring  to  London,  whyche  I  hope  shall  brynge  me  goode  tyd- 
yngs  ageyn,  and  with  in  iiij.  dayes  I  hope  to  see  yowe. 

Wretyn  on  Wednysdaye,  xvij.  daye  ofF  Janyver,  anno  E, 
iiij"  xv°. 

John  Paston,  K. 

882 
JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  1 

'To  my  ryght  worchepful  modyr^  Margaret  Paston. 

JAN.  2  1  A  FTYR  all  dewtes  of  recomendacyon,  pleasyt  yow  to  weet 
h\  that  as  yesterday  att  noon  my  brodyr  Sir  John  departyd 
fro  Norwyche  towardes  London  ;  for  as  now  all  the 
sped  is  with  the  Kyng  for  the  swerte  of  the  maner  of  Caster, 
consyderyng  the  dyeing  seasyd  of  my  Lord  of  Norffolk.  He 
trustyth  to  be  in  thys  contre  ayen  with  in  x.  or  xij.  dayes. 
And  at  hys  departyng  he  seyd  to  me  that  ye  sent  hym  woord 
to  selle  the  clothe  of  gold,  if  he  myght  selle  it  well,  whyche 
clothe  I  thynke  may  be  sold,  iff  ye  wyll  agre  ;  not  withstandyng 
I  wylle  make  no  bargayn  for  it,  tyll  ye  send  me  woord  of  the 
serteyn  some  what  ye  wyll  have  for  it,  or  ellys  ye  to  have  it 
ayen.  Sir  Robard  Wyngfeld  offyrd  me  yesterday  xx.  mark 
for  it,  but  I  wot  well  ye  shall  have  more  for  it,  if  ye  wyll 
sell  it  ;  wher  for,  as  ye  wyll  deele  in  this  mater,  I  prey  yow 
send  me  woord  to  morew  be  tymys,  for  if  thys  bargayn  be 
forsakyn,  I  trow  it  wyll  be  longe  er  ye  kan  get  an  other 
bargayn  to  selle  it  eny  thyng  aftyr  that  is  woorthe. 

Modyr,  in  as  humbyll  wyse  as  I  can,  I  beseche  yow  of  your 
blyssyng.  I  trust  fro  hense  foorthe  that  we  shall  have  our 
chyldyr  in  rest  with  ought  rebwkyng  for  ther  pleying  wanton  ; 
for  it  is  told  me  your  ostass  at  Freton  hathe  gotyn  hyr  syche  a 

1  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  is  shown  by  internal  evidence  to  have 
been  written  shortly  after  the  Duke  of  Norfolk's  death,  which,  as  we  have  seen,  took 
place  on  the  17th  January  1476.  It  was  written  on  a  Sunday,  and  states  that  Sir  John 
Paston  had  left  Norwich  the  day  before.  The  letter  following,  which  is  of  the  23rd 
January,  is  dated  by  John  Paston,  '  Tuesday  next  after  your  (Sir  John's)  departing,' 
so  that  the  Sunday  on  which  this  was  written  must  certainly  have  been  the  21st. 

246 


EDWARD  IV 

thyng  to  pley  with,  that  our  other  chyldyr  shall  have  leve  to     1476 
sporte  theym.     God  send  hyr  joye  of  it.  Jan.  21 

Wretyn  at  Norwyche,  thys  Sonday. 

Your  sone  and  humbyll  servaunt, 

John  Paston. 


883 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 
To  Sir  John  Paston^  Knyght^  at  the  George^  at  Powlys  Wharffe. 

AFTYR  all  dewtes  of  recomendacyon,  lyeketh  yow  to  weet  jan,  23 
that  I  ensuer  yow  your  sendyng  to  Caster  is  evyll  takyn 
among  my  lordes  folk.es,  in  so  myche  that  some  sey 
that  ye  tendryd  lytyll  my  lordes  dethe,  in  as  myche  as  ye  wold 
so  sone  entre  upon  hym  aftyr  hys  dyssease,  with  ought  avyse 
and  assent  of  my  lordes  consayll ;  wherfor  it  is  thought  here 
by  syche  as  be  your  frendes  in  my  lordes  house  that  if  my  lady 
have  onys  the  graunt  of  the  wardshepp  of  the  chyld,^  that  she 
wyll  ocupye  Caster  with  other  londes,  and  ley  the  defaute  on 
your  unkynd  hastyness  of  entre  with  ought  hyr  assent.  Wher- 
for in  eny  wyse  get  yow  a  patent  of  the  Kyng  ensealyd  be  for 
hyrs,  and  ye  may  by  eny  meane  possybyll. 

Also  I  prey  yow  comon  with  my  Lord  Chamberleyn  for 
me,  and  weet  hough  that  he  wyll  have  me  demeanyd. 

It  iss  told  me  for  serteyn  that  ther  is  none  hey  to  gete  at 
Caleys  ;  wherfor  if  I  mygh  be  pardond  for  eny  kepyng  of 
horse  at  Caleys  till  Myd  somer,  it  wer  a  good  torne. 

The  berer  herof  shall  come  home  ayen  fro  London  with  in 
a  day  aftyr  that  he  comyth  thedyr,  if  ye  wyll  ought  comand 
hym.  I  prey  yow  send  me  woord  by  hym  hough  ye  do  with 
your  maters,  and  I  prey  yow  in  eny  wyse  lete  me  undyrstand, 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

2  This  child  was  Ann,  who  soon  after  was  betrothed  to  Richard  Plantagenet, 
Duke  of  York,  the  second  son  of  King  Edward.  She  died  very  young,  and  the 
Duke  was,  as  it  is  supposed,  smothered  in  the  Tower  by  the  command  of  his  uncle 
Richard  in. — F. 

247 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1476    by  the  berer  heroff,  hough  Bowen  of  the  Cheker  wyll  dele 
JAN.  23    vvith  me  ;  vj"''-  and  x//.  it  is  nough,  and  I  wold  have  vij'"'-//.  and 
y.li.  and  I  to  plege  it  ought  in  iiij.  or  v.  yer,  or  ellys  to  forfet 
the  maner. 

Wretyn  at  Norwyche,  the  Twysday  next  aftyr  your  de- 
partyng  thens,  xxiij.  die  Januarii,  anno  E.  iiij"  xv°. 

John  Paston. 


884 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  John  Paston,  Esquier,  at  Norwyche^  he  thys  delyveryd. 


I 


JAN.  27  -^  RECOMAUNDE  me  to  yow,  letyng  yow  weete  that  I 
was  infformyd  by  Ric.  Radle,  that  on  Scarlett,  that  was 
undrescheryff  to  Hastyngs,^  wolde  sywe  to  me  on  yowr 
behalfF,  fFor  that  ye  weer  dyspleasyd  with  a  returne  off  Nichill  ^ 
uppon  yow  in  the  seyde  Hastyngs  tyme  ;  wherffor  Ric.  Radle 
thoghte  that  the  seyde  Scarlett  wolde  be  gladde  to  gyff  yow  a 
noble  or  a  riall  ffor  a  sadell  to  amends,  so  that  ye  wolde  sease 
and  stoppe  the  bylle,  whyche  ye  entende  to  putt  into  the  corte 
ageyn  hys  Master  Hastyngs. 

Wherffor  the  seyde  Scarlett  com  to  me,  and  prayed  me  to 
helpe  in  the  same,  and  so  I  have  don  my  devoir  to  ffeele  off 
hym  the  most  that  he  can  ffynde  in  hys  stomake  to  depart 
with  to  please  yow  ;  and  in  conclusyon  I  trowe,  he  shall 
gyff  yow  a  doblett  clothe  off  sylke,  price  xx5.  or  therabout  ; 
whyche  uppon  suche  answeer  as  I  heer  ffrom  yowe,  I  deme  that 
Bysshop  the  atornye  shall,  iff  I  conclude  with  hym  on  yowr 
behalve,  paye  in  mony  or  otherwyse,  to  whom  that  ye  woll 
assynge  heer. 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  190.] 

2  John  Hastyngs  was  Sheriff  of  Norfolk  the  preceding  year. — F. 

3  Nihils,  or  Nichiis,  are  issues  which  the  sheriff  that  is  apposed  in  the  Exchequer 
says  are  nothing  nxjorth  and  illeviable,  through  the  insufhciency  of  the  parties  from 
whom  due. — F. 

248 


EDWARD  IV 

I  shall  by  the  means  of  Raddele  weet  at  whoys  sywte  it     1476 
was  takyn  owte;  I  deme  it  som  thynge  doon  by  craffte,  by  the    Jan.  27 
means  off  them  that  have  entresse  in  your  lond,  to  th'entent 
to  noyse  itt  therys,  or  to  make  yow  past  shame  off  the  sellyng 
theroff. 

Item,  I  have  receyvyd  a  letter  ffrom  yowe  wretyn  on 
Tywesdaye  last. 

Item,  wher  that  som  towards  my  Lady  of  Norffolk  noyse 
that  I  dyd  onkyndely  to  sende  so  hastely  to  Caster  as  I  dyd  ; 
there  is  no  dyscrete  person  that  so  thynkyth,  ffor  iff  my  lorde 
hade  ben  as  kynde  to  me  as  he  myght  have  ben,  and  acordyng 
to  suche  hert  and  servyce  as  my  grauntffadr,  my  ffadr,  yowr 
selff,  and  I,  have  owght  and  doon  to  my  Lords  of  Norffolk 
that  ded  ben,  and  yitt  iff  I  hadde  weddyd  hys  dowghtr,  yitt 
most  I  have  doon  as  I  dydde. 

And  moor  ovyr,  iff  I  had  hadde  any  demyng  off  my 
lordys  dethe  iiij.  howrs  or  he  dyed,  I  most  neds,  but  iff  I 
wolde  be  knowyn  a  ffoole,  have  entryd  it  the  howr  byffor  hys 
dycesse  ;  but  in  effecte,  theygh  that  in  that  mater  have  alweys 
ment  onkyndely  to  me,  they  ffeyne  that  rumor  ageyn  me ;  but 
ther  is  noon  that  ment  truly  to  hym  that  dede  is,  that  wolde 
be  sory  that  I  hadde  itt,  and  in  especiall  suche  as  love  hys 
sowle. 

Item,  wher  it  is  demyd  that  my  lady  wolde  herafftr  be  the 
rather  myn  hevy  lady  ffor  that  delyng,  1  thynke  that  she  is  to 
resonable  so  to  be,  ffor  I  did  it  nott  onwyst  to  hyr  cowncell ; 
there  was  no  man  thoght  that  I  sholde  doo  otherwysse  ;  an  as 
to  seye,  that  I  myght  have  hadde  my  ladyes  advyce  or  lyve 
l^leave'],  I  myght  have  teryed  yitt,  or  I  cowde  have  speken  with 
hyr,  or  yitt  have  hadde  any  body  to  have  mevyd  hyr  there  on 
my  behalve,  as  ye  wote  I  dydde  what  I  cowde.  Moreovyr  I 
taryed  by  the  advyce  off  Sir  Robert  Wyngffelde  iij.  dayes 
there,  ffor  that  he  putte  me  in  comffirt  that  the  Lord  Howard,^ 
and  hys  brother  Sir  John,  sholde  have  comen  to  Norwyche,  att 
whoys  comyng  he  dowtyd  nott  but  that  I  sholde  have  a  goode 
dyrection  takyn  ffor  me  in  that  mater,  they  leyhe  to  me 
onkyndenesse  ffor  ovyrkyndenesse. 

^  Afterwards  Duke  of  Norfolk. — F. 

249 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1476  Item,  as  fFor  my  mater  heer,  itt  was  thys  daye  befFoor  alle 

JAN.  27  the  lordes  off  the  cowncelle,  and  amonge  them  all,  it  was 
nott  thowght,  that  in  my  sendyng  off  Whetley  thyddr,  in 
mediately  afftr  the  dycesse  off  the  Duke,  that  I  dalt  onkyndly 
or  onfyttyngly,  but  that  I  was  moor  onresonably  dalte  with  ; 
wherffor,  late  men  deme  what  they  wylle,  grettest  clerkys  are 
nott  alweye  wysest  men  ;  but  I  hope  hastely  to  have  on  weye 
in  it  or  other. 

Item,  I  wende  \expected'\  to  have  ffownde  a  gowne  off  myn 
heer,  but  it  come  home  the  same  daye  that  I  come  owte, 
browght  by  Herry  Berker,  loder  \^carrier\.  I  wolde  in  alle 
hast  possible  have  that  same  gowne  off  puke  ffurryd  with 
whyght  lambe. 

Item,  I  wolde  have  my  longe  russett  gowne  off  the  Frenshe 
russett  in  alle  hast,  ffor  I  have  no  gowne  to  goo  in  here. 

Item,  I  praye  yow  recomande  me  to  my  moodr,  and  lat  us 
alle  prey  God  sende  my  Lady  off  Norffolk  a  soone,  for  uppon 
that  restythe  moche  mater  ;  ffor  if  the  Kyngys  soone  ^  mary 
my  lords  dowghtr,  the  Kynge  wolde  that  hys  soone  sholde 
have  a  ffayr  place  in  Norffolk,  thowhe  he  sholde  gyffe  me  ij. 
tymes  the  valywe  in  other  londe,  as  I  am  doon  to  weete.  I 
praye  yow  sende  me  worde  off  my  ladyes  spede  as  soone  as 
ye  kan. 

Item,  as  ffor  Bowen  I  shall  ffele  hym,  and  sholde  have 
doon,  thowghe  ye  hadde  nott  sente. 

Item,  ther  is  offryd  me  a  goode  marriage  for  my  suster 
Anne  Skypwithys  sone  and  heyr  off  Lynkolneshyre,  a  man  v. 
or  vj.  mrke  by  year.     No  mor, 

Wretyn  at  London,  the  xxvij.  daye  off  Janyver,  anno  E. 
iiij"  xv°. 

Item,   my  Lady  off  Excester  ^   is   ded,   and   it  was  seyde 

1  Richard,  Duke  of  York,  second  son  of  King  Edward  iv.,  in  or  before  January 
1478,  married  Anne,  sole  daughter  and  heir  of  ^ohn  Mowbray,  late  Duke  of  Norfolk. 
— Rolls  of  Parliament,  vi.  168.  She  was  at  that  time  only  in  her  sixth  year,  and  she 
died  early. 

2  Anne,  daughter  of  Richard,  Duke  of  York,  sister  of  Edward  iv.,  and  widow  of 
Henry  Holland,  the  last  Duke  of  Exeter,  her  first  husband  ;  she  died  14th  of  January 
1475,  and  lies  buried  with  Sir  Thomas  Saint  Leger,  Knight,  her  second  husband,  in 
a  private  chapel  at  Windsor. — F. 

250 


EDWARD  IV 

that  bothe  the  olde  Dywchesse  off  Norffolk,^  and  the  Cown-     1476 
tesse  off  Oxenfforde  ^  weer  ded,  but  it  is  nott  soo  yitt.  Jan.  27 

Item,  I  shall  remembr  Caleyse  bothe  for  horse  and  alle,  &c. 


885 
JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON^ 

To  Sir  John  Paslofi,  Knyght,  at  the  George^ 

by  Powlys  Wharfs  in  London.  " 

AFTYR  all  dwtes  of  recomendacyon,  lyeketh  yow  to  feb.  3 
wete,  that  with  in  thys  owyr  past,  I  receyd  your 
letter  wretyn  the  xxvij.  day  of  Januar,  by  whyche 
I  undyrstand  that  Scarlet  wold  have  an  end  with  me  ;  but 
lesse  then  xli.  is  to  lytyll,  for  iff  I  wold  do  the  uttermost  to 
hym,  I  shold  recover  by  the  statwte,  I  trow  xlli.  or  more,  but 
lesse  then  xxxiijj.  I'ujd.  I  wyll  in  no  wyse  ;  and  ye  may  sey 
that  ye  of  your  owne  hed  wyll  geve  hym  the  ode  nobyll  of 
xb.,  and  if  ye  have  the  v.  noblys  I  prey  yow  let  Parker  of 
Flett  stret  have  therof  xxxj.  and  lete  Pytte  and  Rychard  and 
Edward  drynk  the  xW.  As  for  your  gownys,  they  shalbe  sent 
yow  in  as  hasty  wyse  as  is  possybyll.  Thys  must  be  consayll: 
— It  is  promysyd  my  lady  by  my  Lord  Chamberleyn  that  the 
diem  clausit  extremum  for  my  lord  shall  not  be  delyverd  tyll 
she  be  of  power  to  labore  hyr  sylff  her  most  avauntage  in  that 
mater,  wherfor  ye  ned  not  to  dele  ov  r  largely  with  the- 
xchetoures.  Also  consayll: — Robard  Brandon  and  Colevyle 
have  by  meanys  enformyd  my  lady  that  ye  wold  have  gotyn 
Caster  fro  hyr  by  stronge  hand,  now  thys  frost  whyll  the 
mote  is  frosyn,  in  so  myche  that  she  was  porposed  to  have 

^         1  Ellenor,  only  daughter  of  William  Bourchier,  Earl  of  Ewe,  in  Normandy,  and 
widow  of  John  Mowbray,  Duke  of  Norfolk. — F. 

2  Margaret,  daughter  of  Richard  Nevile,  Earl  of  Salisbury,  and  wife  of  John  de 
Vere,  Earl  of  Oxford,  now  a  prisoner  in  the  Castle  of  Hammes,  in  Picardy  ;  or  it 
may  refer  to  Elizabeth,  widow  of  the  late  Earl  of  Oxford,  and  daughter  and  heir  of 
Sir  John  Howard,  Knight. — F. 

3  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.] 

251 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1476     sent  thedyr  R.  Brandon  and  other  to  have  kept  the  place  tyll 
FEB-  3     syche   tyme   as   she   made  axe    me   the   questyon   whedyr  ye 
entendet  that  wey  or  not,  and  I  avysed  hyr  that   she  shold 
rather  sofyr  R.  Brandon  and  hys  retenew  to  lye  in  Norwyche 
of  hys  owne  cost  then  to  lye  at  the  taverne  at  Yermouthe  on 
hyr  cost,  for  I  lete  hyr  have  knowlage  that  ye  never  entendyd 
non  entre  in  to  that  place,  but  by  hyr  assent  and  knowlage 
I  wast  well.     Syr,  for  Godes  sake,  in  as  hasty  wyse  as  is  possy- 
byll,  send  me  woord  how  ye  feele  my  Lord  Chamberleyn  and 
Bowen  dysposed  to  me  wardes,  for  1  shall  never  be  in  hertes 
e^se  tyll  I  undyrstand  ther  tweys  dysposysyon.     Also,  I  prey 
yow,  let  Symond  Dame  have  knowlage  as  soone  as  ye  have  red 
thys  lettyr  that  I  wold  in  eny  wyse  that  he  swe  forthe  the 
axions  a  yenst  Darby  and  other  for  Byskley,  notwithstandyng 
the  bylle  that  I  sent  hym  to  the  contrary  by  Edmund  Jeney, 
for  Darby  and  I  are  brokyn  of,  of  our  entrete  whyche  was 
apoyntyd  at  Thettford.     God  sped  yow  in  thes  maters,  and  in 
all  other.      Ye  send   me  woord   of  a  good  maryage  for  my 
syster  Anne.     I  prey  yow  aspye  some  old  thryffty  draff  wyfF 
in  London  for  me.     Thomas  Brampton  at  the  Blak  Fryers  in 
London  wyth  syche  other  as  he  and  I  apoyntyd  wyll  helpe 
yow  to  aspye  on  for  me  on   ther  part.     I  prey  yow  that  I 
may  be  recomandyd  to  hym,  and  prey  hym  that  he  wyll,  in  as 
hasty  wyse  as  he  can,  comforte  me  with  on  letter  fro  hym,  and 
fro  the  other  persone  that  he  and   I   comond  of,  and  I  prey 
yow  as  ye  se  hym  at  the  parvyse^  and  ellys  where,  calle  on 
hym  for  the  same  letter  and  telle  hym  that  ye  most  nedys  have 
on  to  me,  and  when  ye  have  it  breke  it  and  ye  lyst  or  ye  send 
it  me. 

Endorsed — iij.  Febriiaiij,  anno  xv°. 


^  The  church  porch.     In  London  it  commonly  meant  the  portico  of  St.  Paul's 
Cathedral,  which  is  doubtless  the  place  here  intended. 


25: 


EDWARD  IV 

886 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  LORD  HASTINGS  i 

"To  my  Lord. 

MY  most  doughtyd  and  singuler  good  lord,  aftyr  most  1476 
humble  and  dew  recomendacyon,  please  it  your  good  march  2 
lordshepp  to  have  knowlage  that,  accordyng  to  your 
comandement,  in  my  wey  homeward,  I  remembred  me  of  a 
persone  whyche  to  my  thynkyng  is  meetly  to  be  clerk  of  your 
kechyn,  whyche  persone  is  now  in  servyse  with  Master  Fitz- 
water,  and  was  befor  that  with  Whethyll  at  Gwynes,  and 
purveyor  for  hys  house,  and  at  syche  tyme  as  the  Kynges 
grace  was  ther  last  in  hys  vyage  towardes  France.  Thys  man 
is  meane  of  stature,  yonge  inough,  well  wittyd,  well  manerd,  a 
goodly  yong  man  on  horse  and  foote.  He  is  well  spokyn  in 
Inglyshe,  metly  well  in  Frenshe,  and  verry  perfite  in  Flemyshe. 
He  can  wryght  and  reed.  Hys  name  is  Rychard  Stratton  ; 
hys  modyr  is  Mastress  Grame  of  Caleys.  And  when  I  had 
shewyd  hym  myn  intent,  he  was  agreable  and  verry  glad  if 
that  it  myght  please  your  lordshepp  to  accept  hym  in  to 
your  servyse  ;  wherto  I  promysed  hym  my  poore  helpe,  as 
ferforthe  as  I  durst  meve  your  good  lordshepp  for  hym, 
trusty ng  that  I  shold  have  knowelage  of  your  plesure  her  in, 
or  I  departed  towardes  your  lordshep  ought  of  this  contrey. 
Wherfor  I  advysed  hym  to  be  redy  with  in  xiiij.  dayes  of 
Marche  at  the  ferthest,  that  if  it  pleasyd  your  lordsheppe  to 
accept  hym  or  to  have  a  syght  of  hym  be  for  your  departyng 
to  Caleys,  that  ther  shold  be  no  slaughthe  in  hym. 

He  desyred  me  to  meve  Master  Fitzwater  to  be  good 
mastyr  to  hym  in  thys  behalve,  and  so  I  dyd ;  and  he  was 
verry  glad  and  agreable  ther  to,  seying  if  hys  sone  had  ben  of 

1  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  Although  the  lord  to  whom  this  letter  was 
addressed  is  not  named,  it  was  undoubtedly  intended  for  Lord  Hastings,  Lieutenant 
of  Calais,  who,  as  will  be  seen  hereafter,  was  preparing  to  go  over  to  Calais  in  March 
i^-j6.—See  No.  888. 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1476    age,  and  all  the  servauntis  he  hathe  myght  be  in  eny  wyse 
MARCH  2  acceptabell  to  your  lordshepp,  that  they  all,  and  hym  silff  in 
lyek  wyse,  shall  be  at  your  comandment,  whyll  he  leveth. 

And  at  my  comyng  home  to  my  poore  house,  I  sent  for 
Robart  Bernard,  and  shewid  on  to  hym  that  I  had  mevyd 
your  lordshepp  for  hym  ;  and  he  in  lyek  forme  is  agreable  to 
be  redy  by  the  xiiij,  day  of  Marche  to  awayte  on  your  lord- 
shepp, be  it  to  Caleys  or  ellys  where,  and  fro  that  day  so 
foorthe  for  ever,  whyll  hys  lyff  wyll  last,  with  ought  grugeing 
or  contraying  your  comandement  and  plesure,  in  eny  wyse 
that  is  in  hym  possibyll  t'accomplishe. 

I  shewed  on  to  hym  that  I  had  preyed  Master  Talbot  to 
be  a  mean  to  your  good  lordshepp  for  hym,  and  if  so  wer  that 
Mastyr  Talbot  thought  that  your  lordshepp  wer  content  to 
take  hys  servyse,  then  that  it  wold  please  Mr.  Talbot  to 
meve  my  Lady  of  Norffolkes  grace  to  wryght  or  send  to 
Bernard,  puttyng  hym  in  knowlage  that  hyr  grace  is  content 
that  he  shall  become  your  menyall  servaunt.  Wherof  he  was 
passyng  well  pleasyd  ;  but,  that  notwithstandyng,  as  I  en- 
formed  your  lordshepp,  he  is  not  so  reteyned,  neyther  by  fee 
nor  promess,  but  that  he  may  let  hym  sylff  loose  to  do  your 
lordsheppe  servyse  when  ye  wyll  receyve  hym,  and  so  wyll  he 
do  ;  but,  your  lordshepe  so  pleasid,  leve  wer  bettyr.  Rychard 
Stratton  told  me  that  whyll  he  was  in  servyse  with  Whethyll, 
John  Redwe  mocyond  hym  onys  myche  aftyr  thys  intent,  but 
at  that  tyme  Whethyll  wold  not  be  so  good  mastyr  to  hym  as 
to  meve  your  lordshepe  for  hym. 

My  lord,  I  trust  that  your  lordshepe  shall  lyek  bothe  ther 
persones  and  ther  condicyons  ;  and  as  for  ther  trowthes,  if  it 
may  please  your  good  lordshepe  to  accept  my  poore  woord 
with  thers,  I  wyll  depose  largely  for  that.  And  as  it  pleasyth 
your  good  lordshepe  to  comand  me  in  thes  maters,  and  all 
other,  if  it  may  please  your  lordshepe  to  shewe  the  same  to 
my  brodyr  Nessfeld,  he  knowith  who  shall  sonest  be  with  me 
to  putt  me  in  knowlage  of  your  plesure,  whyche  I  shall  be  at 
all  seasons  redy  t'accomplyshe  to  my  poore  power,  with  Godes 
grace.  Whom  I  beseche  longe  to  contenue  the  prosperous 
astate  of  your  good  lordshepp. 
254 


EDWARD  IV 

Fro    Norwyche,   the   seconde   daye   of  Marche,  with    the     I47^ 
hand  of  your  most  humble  servaunt  and  beedman,  march  2 

John  Paston. 


887 
JOHN  PASTON  TO  [MARGERY  BREWS]  ^ 

MASTRESSE,  thow  so  be  that  I,  unaqweyntyd  with  yow  1476  (?) 
as  yet,  tak  up  on  me  to  be  thus  bold  as  to  wryght 
on  to  yow  with  ought  your  knowlage  and  leve,  yet, 
mastress,  for  syche  pore  servyse  as  I  now  in  my  mynd  owe 
yow,  purposyng,  ye  not  dyspleasyd,  duryng  my  lyff  to  contenu 
the  same,  I  beseche  yow  to  pardon  my  boldness,  and  not  to 
dysdeyn,  but  to  accepte  thys  sympyll  byll  to  recomand  me  to 
yow  in  syche  wyse  as  I  best  can  or  may  imagyn  to  your  most 
plesure.  And,  mastress,  for  sych  report  as  I  have  herd  of  yow 
by  many  and  dyverse  persones,  and  specyally  by  my  ryght 
trusty  frend,  Rychard  Stratton,  berer  her  of,  to  whom  I  be- 
seche yow  to  geve  credence  in  syche  maters  as  he  shall  on  my 
behalve  comon  with  yow  of,  if  it  lyke  you  to  lystyn  hym,  and 
that  report  causythe  me  to  be  the  more  bold  to  wryght  on  to 
yow,  so  as  I  do  ;  for  I  have  herd  oft  tymys  Rychard  Stratton 
sey  that  ye  can  and  wyll  take  every  thyng  well  that  is  well 
ment,  whom  I  beleve  and  trust  as  myche  as  fewe  men  leveing, 
I  ensuer  yow  by  my  trowthe.  And,  mastress,  I  beseche  yow 
to  thynk  non  other  wyse  in  me  but  that  I  wyll  and  shall  at  all 
seasons  be  redy  wythe  Godes  grace  to  accomplyshe  all  syche 
thynges  as  I  have  enformyd  and  desyerd  the  seyd  Rychard 
on  my  behalve  to  geve  yow  knowlage  of,  but  if  [unless]  it 
so  be  that  a  geyn  my  -wyll  it  come  of  yow  that  I  be  cast 
off  fro  yowr  servyse  and  not  wyllyngly  by  my  desert,  and 
that  I  am  and  wylbe  yours  and  at  your  comandmen  in  every 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  is  printed  from  a  draft  in  the  hand  of 
John  Paston  the  younger.  I  suppose  it  must  have  been  written  about  the  year  1476, 
and  intended  for  Margery  Brews,  whom  he  afterwards  married.  It  will  be  seen  that 
Richard  Stratton,  whom  in  his  last  letter  he  recommended  to  Lord  Hastings,  is  here 
the  bearer  of  a  confidential  message  to  the  lady. 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

I476(?)wyse  dwryng  my  lyff.  Her  I  send  yow  thys  bylle  wretyn 
with  my  lewd  hand  and  sealyd  with  my  sygnet  to  remayn 
with  yow  for  a  wyttnesse  ayenste  me,  and  to  my  shame  and 
dyshonour  if  I  contrary  it.  And,  mastress,  I  beseche  yow, 
in  easyng  of  the  poore  hert  that  somtyme  was  at  my  rewle, 
whyche  now  is  at  yours,  that  in  as  short  tyme  as  can  be  that  I 
may  have  knowlage  of  your  entent  and  hough  ye  wyll  have 
me  demeanyd  in  thys  mater,  and  I  wylbe  at  all  seasons  redy 
to  performe  in  thys  mater  and  all  others  your  plesure,  as  fer- 
forth  as  lythe  in  my  poore  power  to  do  or  in  all  thers  that 
ought  wyll  do  for  me,  with  Godes  grace.  Whom  I  beseche  to 
send  yow  the  accomplyshement  of  your  most  worchepfuU 
desyers,  myn  owne  fayer  lady,  for  I  wyll  no  ferther  labore 
but  to  yow,  on  to  the  tyme  ye  geve  me  leve,  and  tyll  I  be 
suer  that  ye  shall  take  no  dysplesur  with  my  ferther  labore. 


888 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  i 

To  John  Paston^  Esquier^  or  to  Mestresse  Margrett  Paston, 
hys  moodre^  in  Norffolk. 

1476  T  RECOMANDE  me  to  yow,  letyng  yow  wete  that, 
MARCH  12  I  blessyd  be  God,  uppon  Saterdaye  last  past  my  lorde" 
and  wee  toke  the  see,  and  come  to  Caleyes  the  same 
daye,  and  as  thys  daye  my  lorde  come  to  Guynesse,  and  theer 
was  receyvyd  honourablye  with  owt  any  obstaklys ;  wheer  as  I 
fownde  Master  Fytzwalter  and  othre,  whyche  wer  ryght  hevye 
for  the  dethe  of  the  noble  man  thatt  was  theer  to  foor,  itt 
happyd  soo  that  my  seyd  Master  Fytzwalter  axid  me  ryght 
hertely  for  yow,  and  I  lete  hym  weete  that  I  demyd  ye  wolde 
be  heer  in  haste,  wheroffe  he  seyde  he  was  ryght  soory,  for  soo 
moche  that  he  entendyth  to  come  in  to  Englonde,  and  as  I 
conceyve  he  wyll  come  to  Attylborogh,  and  brynge  my  mes- 
tresse hys  wyffe  with  hym,  and  theer  to  stablysshe  hys  howse 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  2  Hastings. 

256 


EDWARD  IV 

contynuall.  WherfFor  he  thynketh  that  he  sholde  have  as  grete  1476 
a  lakke  off  yow  as  ofF  any  one  man  in  that  centre,  willyng  me  march  i  2 
to  wryght  on  to  yowe,  and  to  late  yow  weete  off  hys  comynge. 
He  also  hathe  tolde  me  moche  off  hys  stomake  and  tendre 
faver  that  he  owythe  to  yow ;  wherffor  I  asserteyn  yow  that 
he  is  your  verry  especiall  goode  master,  and  ifFe  ye  weer  abyd- 
ynge  in  thatt  contre,  whylse  he  weer  theer,  he  is  dysposyd  to 
doo  largely  for  yowe  in  dyverse  wyse,  whyche  weer  to  longe 
to  wryght,  in  so  moche  that  I  feele  by  hym  that  he  thynkyth 
that  itt  sholde  be  longe  er  he  scholde  be  wery  of  yowr  ex- 
pences  of  horse  or  man.  Now  I  remytte  alle  thynge  to  your 
dyscresion  ;  ye  woote  best  what  is  for  yow. 

As  for  my  lorde,  I  undrestande  nott  yitt  whethyr  he  wylle 
in  to  Ingelonde  the  weke  to  foor  Esterne,  or  ellys  aftre. 

I  pray  yow  recomande  me  to  my  moodre.  I  wolde  have 
wretyn  to  hyr,  but  in  trowthe  I  ame  somewhatt  erased,  what 
with  the  see  and  what  wythe  thys  dyet  heer. 

No  moor  to  yow,  but  wretyn  at  Gynes,  the  xij.  daye  off 
Marche,  anno  E.  xvj. 

By  John  Paston,  K. 

889 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  1 

To  Mestresse  Margrete  Paston,  at  Norwyche,  or  hyr  sone, 
John  Paston,  Esquyer,  and  to  every  ch  off  them. 

I  RECOMANDE  me  to  yowe.  Like  it  yow  to  weete  march  21 
that  I  am  nott  sertayne  yitt  whether  my  lorde  ^  and  I 
shall  come  into  Ingelonde  the  weke  byffoor  Est[er]ne,  or 
ellys  the  weke  afftr  Est[er]ne ;  wherffor,  moodr,  I  beseche 
yow  to  take  noo  dysplesyr  with  me  ffor  my  longe  tarynge, 
ffor  I  most  doo  noon  otherwyse  ffor  dysplesyng  off  my  lorde. 
I  was  noo  thynge  gladde  off  thys  jornaye,  iff  I  myght  goodely 
have  chosen ;  neverthelesse,  savyng  that  ye  have  cawse  to  be 
dyspleasyd  with    me   ffor   the   mater   off  Kokett,  I  am  ellys 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  198.]  2  Hastings. 

VOL.  v. R  257 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1476  ryght  gladde,  ffor  I  hope  that  I  ame  fFerre  moor  in  ffavor  with 
MARCH  21  my  lorde  then  I  was  to  ffoor. 

Item,  I  sende  yow,  brother  John,  a  letter  herwith,  whyche 
was  browte  hyddr  to  Caleys,  ffrom  the  George  at  Powles 
Wharff;   I  deme  it  comethe  fFrom  my  brother  Water. 

Item,  iff  ye  entende  hyddrewarde,  itt  weer  weell  doon  that 
ye  hygthed  yowe,  ffor  I  suppose  that  my  lorde  wille  take  the 
vywe  off  alle  hys  retynywe  heer,  nowe  byffoor  hys  departyng  ; 
and  I  thynke  that  he  woolde  be  better  contente  with  yowr 
comyng  nowe,  than  an  other  tyme ;  doo  as  ye  thynke  best, 
and  as  ye  maye. 

Item,  wher  Master  Fytzwalter  made  me  to  wryght  to 
yowe  to  advyse  yow  to  tarye,  I  remytte  thatt  to  yowr 
dyscretion. 

As  ffor  tydyngs  heer,  we  her  ffrom  alle  the  worlde ;  ffyrst, 
the  Lorde  Ryverse  was  at  Roome  right  weell  and  honorably, 
and  other  Lords  off  Ynglonde,  as  the  Lord  Hurmonde,^  and 
the  Lord  Scrope,^  and  at  ther  departyng  xij.  myle  on  thyse- 
halff  Roome,  the  Lorde  Ryverse  was  robbyd  off  alle  hys 
jowelles  and  plate,  whyche  was  worthe  m'^-  marke  or  better, 
and  is  retornyd  to  Rome  ffor  a  remedy. 

Item,  the  Duke  of  Burgoyne  hath  conqueryd  Loreyn,  and 
Quene  Margreet  shall  nott  nowe  be  lykelyhod  have  it ;  wher- 
ffor  the  Frenshe  Kynge  cheryssheth  hyr  butt  easelye;  but  afftr 
thys  conquest  off  Loreyn,  the  Duke  toke  grete  corage  to  goo 
uppon  the  londe  off  the  Swechys  [t^ww]  to  conquer  them,  butt 
the  \_^heyj  berded  hym  att  an  onsett  place,  and  hathe  dystrussyd 
hym,  and  hathe  slayne  the  most  parte  off  hys  vanwarde,  and 
wonne  all  hys  ordynaunce  and  artylrye,  and  mor  ovyr  all  stuffe 
thatt  he  hade  in  hys  ost  with  hym  ;  exceppte  men  and  horse 
ffledde  nott,  but  they  roode  that  nyght  xx.  myle  ;  and  so  the 
ryche  saletts,^  heulmetts,  garters,  nowchys^  gelt,  and  alle  is 
goone,  with  tents,  pavylons,  and  alle,  and  soo  men  deme  hys 
pryde  is  abatyd.  Men  tolde  hym  that  they  weer  ffrowarde 
karlys,  butte  he  wolde  nott  beleve  it,  and  yitt  men  seye,  that 
he  woll  to  them  ageyn.     Gode  spede  them  bothe. 

1  John,  sixth  Earl  of  Ormone).  2  John,  Lord  Scrope  of  Bolton. 

3  Light  head-pieces. — F.  *  Embossed  ornaments,  chains,  buckles,  etc. — F. 

258 


EDWARD  IV 

Item,  Sir  John  Mydelton  toke  leve  off  the  Duke  to  sporte     1476 
hym,  but  he  is  sett  in  pryson  att  Brussellys.  march  21 

I  praye  yowe  sende  me  som  worde  iff  ye  thynke  likly  that 
I  may  entr  Caster  when  I  woll,  by  the  next  messenger, 

Wretyn  at  Caleys,  in  resonable  helthe  off  bodye  and  sowle, 
I  thanke  Good,  the  xxj.  daye  off  Marche,  anno  E.  iiij"  xvj°. 

J.  P.,  K. 


890 
JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON^ 

To  the  ryght  worchepfull  Sir  John  Fasten^  Knyght,  lodgyd 
at  the  George^  by  Powlys  Wharfs  in  London. 

AFTYR  all  dewtes  of  recomendacyon,  lyeketh  yow  to  may  6 
wet,  that  to  my  power  ye  be  welcom  ayen  in  to 
Inglond.  And  as  for  the  Castell  of  Shene,  ther  is 
no  mor  in  it  but  CoUe  and  hys  mak,  and  a  goose  may  get  it ; 
but  in  no  wyse  I  wold  not  that  wey,  and  my  modyr  thynkyth 
the  same.     Take  not  that  wey,  if  ther  be  eny  other. 

I  undyrstand  that  Mastres  Fytzwater  hathe  a  syster,  a 
mayd,  to  mary.  I  trow,  and  ye  entretyd  hym,  she  myght 
come  into  Crysten  menys  handys.  I  prey  yow  spek  with 
Mastyr  Fytzwater  of  that  mater  for  me,  and  ye  may  telle 
hym,  synse  that  he  wyll  have  my  servyse,  it  wer  as  good, 
and  syche  a  bargayn  myght  be  mad,  that  bothe  she  and  I 
awaytyd  on  hym  and  my  mastress  hys  wyff  at  oure  owne  cost, 
as  I  a  lone  to  awayt  on  hym  at  hys  cost  ;  for  then  he  shold  be 
swer  that  I  shold  not  be  flyttyng,  and  I  had  syche  a  qwarell 
to  kepe  me  at  home.  And  I  have  hys  good  wylle,  it  is  non 
inpossybyll  to  bryng  a  bowght. 

I  thynk  to  be  at  London  with  in  a  xiiij.  dayes  at  the 
ferthest,  and  peraventure  my  mastress  also,  in  consayll  be  it 
clatryd.     God  kepe  yow  and  yours. 

At  Norwyche,  the  vj.  day  of  May,  anno  E.  iiij''  xvj°. 

J-  p- 

1  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.] 

259 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

891 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  ^ 

'To  Mestresse  Margret  Paston,  in  Norwyche^  or  to  hyr 
sone  John  Paston^  Knyght. 

1476  Tr\LEASE  it  yow  to  weete  that  as  for  my  materes,  and 
MAY  27  m-^  theye  appeyre  nott,^  the  doo,  blessyd  be  Godde,  as 
weell  as  I  wolde  they  dyd,  saffe  that  it  shalle  cost  me 
grett  mony,  and  it  hathe  cost  me  moche  laboor.  It  is  soo 
that  the  Kynge  most  have  C.  marke,  and  other  costes  will 
drawe  xl.  marke.  And  my  mater  is  examynyd  by  the  Kynges 
Cowncell,  and  declaryd  affoor  alle  the  Lordes,  and  now  lakkythe 
noo  thynge  but  [the  Pryjvy  Seals,  and  wryghtyng  to  Master 
Colv[ill]  ^  to  avoide  ;  for  the  ^  [Kyng  hath  p]romysed  me  as 
moche  as  I  wolde  he  sholde  fullefille,  and  alle  the  Lordes, 
Juges,  Serjauntes,  have  affermyd  my  title  goode.  Nott  with- 
standyng  Sowthewell,  James  Hubberde,  and  Sir  W.  Braundon, 
where  at  ther  owne  desyrs,  offryd  to  afferme  and  advowe  my 
tytell  for  goode,  and  that  my  Lorde  off  NorfFolk  that  ded  is 
had  noo  tytell,  thatt  they  knywe,  they  tolde  my  tale  as  ille  as 
they  cowde,  and  yitt  a  lye  or  too  to  helpe  it,  and  yit  it  servyth 
them  nott,  they  be  knowen  as  they  ar  (in  Cowncell  be  it  seyde, 
and  so  most  all  thys  letter  be). 

I  have  moche  payne  to  gete  so  moche  mony,  Neverthe- 
lesse,  but  iff  myne  oncle  schewe  hym  selfe  werse  than  ever  he 
was,  I  shalle  nott  fayle,  if  he  kepe  me  promyse,  and  thatt  is 
but  as  he  dyde  last,  that  is  butt  to  be  my  sywerte,  and  I  to 
make  hym  sywerte  ageyn. 

The  Kynge  departythe  thys  daye,  and  wille  nott  be  heer 
tyll  Frydaye,  whyche  lettyth  me,  or  ellys  by  thatt  daye  I  wolde 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  relates  to  Sir  John  Paston's  claim  to 
Caister  after  the  Duke  of  Norfolk's  death,  which  claim  he  succeeded  in  establishing 
in  June  1476,  as  appears  by  the  letter  following.  The  date  26th  May  at  the  end  of 
the  letter  is  an  error.     The  '  Monday  next  Holy  Thursday'  was  the  27th. 

2  i.e.  if  they  do  not  get  worse. 
^  Paper  decayed, 

260 


EDWARD  IV 

have  hopyd  to  have  comen  homeward,  and  erst  per  aventure.     147^ 
No  moor,  but  Jesus  have  yow  in  kepyng.  "ay  27 

Wretyn  at  London,  the  xxvj.  daye  of  Maye,  the  Mondaye 
next  Holy  Thurrysdaye,  the  Assencion. 

The  Kynge  wold  have  bowte  it,  but  he  was  enfformyd  off 
the  trowthe,  and  that  it  was  nott  for  a  prynce,  and  off  the 
greet  pryse  that  I  wolde  selle  it  att ;  for  that  I  myght  nott 
for  bere  it,  for  he  scholde  have  payed  m'm'*  marke  or  moor,  iff 
he  hadde  hadde  it. 

Your  sone,  J.  Paston,  K. 


892 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 

To  John  Paston,  Esquier,  heyng  at  the  Syngne  of  the 
George,  at  Powles  Wharffe. 

IRECOMAUNDE  me  to  yow,  letyng  yow  weete  that  I  J^^e  30 
hav  receyvyd  yowr  letter,  wretyn  the  next  daye  aftre 
Mydsomer ;  for  answer  wheroff  I  thynke  that  to  be 
bownde  in  v*"-  [500]  marke,  I  thynke  it  is  to  moche,  where  as 
I  felt  by  yow  ye  sholde  have  with  the  gentylwoman  but  iiij*" 
[400]  ;  neverthelesse  I  agree.  But  ye  shall  undrestande  that 
I  wyll  not  be  bownde  for  yow  that  ye  shall  make  hyr  joyntour 
past  xx//.  by  yer,  within  a  sertayne  daye  lymyted ;  be  it  j.  yere 
or  ij.,  that  is  the  largest  that  ye  maye  performe.  For  as  for 
the  maner  of  Sparham,  my  moodre  and  ye  acorde  notte  in 
yowr  saynges  ;  she  wyll  nowght  graunte  yow  ther  in,  whylse 
she  levyth,  saff,  as  she  seythe  to  me,  she  hathe  grauntyd  yow 
x,  marke  by  yeer  tyll  xl//.  be  payed,  that  is  but  vj.  yeer  ;  and 
aftre  hyr  dyscease  she  woU  agree  with  goode  will,  so  that  it 
maye  be  yowr  proferment,  that  ye  sholde  have  that  maner  in 
joynture  with  yowr  wyffe  to  the  lenger  lyver  off  yow  bothe, 
payng  x.  marke  by  yeer,  soo  or  th  .  .  .  as  she  wyll  that 
it  shall  be.     Therfore,  as  for  1.  marke  joynture,  I  pray  yow 

^  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

261 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1476  bynde  me  in  no  suche  clawse,  butt  iff  it  be  for  xx//.  by  a  reson- 
juNE  30  able  daye,  and  xx.  marke  aftre  the  dyssease  off  my  moodre. 
Take  example  at  Derby. 

Item,  ye  make  yow  sywerer  than  I  deme  yow  bee,  for  I 
deme  that  her  frendes  wyll  nott  be  content  with  Bedyngfeldes 
sywerte,  nor  yowres.  I  deme  thys  mater  will  ocopy  lenger 
leyser  than  ye  deme  for. 

Item,  I  remembre  thatt  thys  mony  that  she  sholde  have  is 
nott  redy,  but  in  the  handes  of  marchauntes  of  the  Estaple, 
whyche  at  a  prove  ye  shall  fynde  per  case  so  slakke  payeres, 
that  ye  myght  be  deseyvyd  ther  by.  I  knowe  dyverse  have 
lost  mony  er  they  cowde  gete  ther  dywtes  owte  off  the  Staple. 
God  spede  yow,  and  sende  yow  that  ye  wolde  have. 

I  sende  yow  the  obligacion  here  with  acordyng  to  yowr 
desyr,  and  a  letter  to  Bedyngfelde,  thankyng  hym  for  yow, 
and  more  over  letyng  hym  know  of  myn  entent.  Opyn  it, 
and  close  it  ageyn,  if  ye  lyst. 

Item,  where  I  tolde  yow  that  the  gowne  clothe  off  olde 
chamlott,  I  wolde  have  it  hoome  for  my  suster  Anne  ;  ye  for 
gate  it.  I  praye  yow  sende  it  home  by  the  next  massenger, 
and  a  letter  with  it  of  suche  tydynges  as  ye  knowe. 

Item,  blissed  be  God,  I  have  Castre  at  my  will.  God  holde 
it  better  than  it  doone  her  to  foore. 

No  moore,  but  wretyn  the  next  daye  aftre  Seynt  Petre, 
anno  E.  iiij"  xvj°.  J.  Paston,  K. 

893 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  1 

To  Mestresse  Margret  Paston. 

[aug.  30]  T^LEASE  it  yow  to  wete  that  I  was  uppon  Tywesdaye,  the 

i""^     daye  that  I  departyd  froo  yowe,  with  my  brother  John 

at  Atelborow  by  viij.  of  the  clokke  at  evyn,  and  founde 

hym  in  suche  case  as  iff  ye  had  seyn  hym  than  ye  wolde  have 

1  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  188.]  Strangely  enough  there  is  no  mention  elsewhere  of 
the  serious  illness  of  young  John  Paston  mentioned  in  this  letter,  by  which  we  might 
fix  the  year  when  it  was  written.     But  perhaps  we  may  surmise  that  it  was  1476, 

262 


EDWARD  IV 

be  as  gladde  of  hym  osse  off  a  nywe  sone.  I  wenyd  nott  that  I47^ 
he  sholde  nott  have  levyd  tyll  the  mornyng  ;  in  so  moche  that  [a"^-  3°] 
by  my  trowthe  I  dare  seye  that  iff  it  had  nott  fortunyd  us  to 
have  comyn  to  hym,  he  had  not  been  on  lyve  on  Wednysdaye. 
For  syns  Saterday  slepyd  he  nott  iiij.  howris,  and  yitt  iij.  of 
them  was  syns  I  come  thydyr,  on  to  thys  nyght ;  and  thys 
nyght,  blessyd  be  God,  he  hathe  slepyd  well,  and  with  Goddys 
grace  I  dowte  not  but  thatt  he  shall  do  weell.  For  his  agywe 
is  goone,  and  alle  that  laye  in  hys  stomak  and  undre  hys  syde 
it  weryth  aweye,  and  within  a  daye  or  ij,  I  hope  he  shall  be  so 
stronge  that  I  maye  come  frome  hym ;  and  he  hopyth  to  see 
yowe  with  in  fewe  days  affter,  as  he  seyth.  On  Wednysdaye 
I  wysshed  to  hym  that  he  and  I  hadde  been  at  Norwyche ; 
wheruppon  he  harpyd  all  that  nyght,  and  for  cawe  (sic)  he 
hadde  not  so  goode  rest  as  he  wolde,  it  fylle  in  hys  brayne  to 
come  to  Norwyche ;  and  he  in  an  angyr  wolde  nedys  to  horse. 
He  wolde  non  horsse  litter,  he  was  so  stronge.  Neverthelesse 
we  wenyd  nott  that  he  sholde  have  been  able  to  have  redyn  a 
myle,  and  wenyd  that  it  had  nott  been  possible  to  have  passid 
Wyndham  ;  bott  whan  he  was  uppe  for  that,  we  seyde  he 
roode  so  welle  he  ledde  uss  a  dawnce  faster  than  alle  we  cowde 
weell  folowe.  He  was  at  Wyndham,  by  my  trowthe,  in  lesse 
than  an  howr  by  a  large  quarter,  and  ther  restyd  hym  an 
howre,  and  to  horse  ageyne  and  was  heer  in  lesse  than  an 
howr  and  one  halffe.  And  now  he  dowteth  nott  to  slepe 
weell,  for  he  seyth  that  he  never  ffaylyd  to  slepe  weel  in  that 
bedde  that  he  hathe  chosyn  now  at  Frenshys,  and  thusse  I 
hope  he  be  sauffe.  And  I  am  in  dowte  whethyr  I  shall  within 
ij.  dayes  owther  come  home  to  yow  or  ellis  to  goo  forthe  as 
ye  woote  off.  No  moore,  &c.  Wretyn  on  Frydaye  next  the 
Decollacion  of  Seynt  John  Baptyst. 

Item,  I  have  the  wrythynges  off  Richard  Calle. 

Your  sone,  J.  Paston,  K. 

after  he  had  been  at  Calais,  where  he  was  expected  in  the  spring.  The  fact  that  he 
was  ill  at  Attleborough  agrees  with  this  supposition,  for  that  was  the  seat  of  the 
Fitzwalter  family,  and  'Master  Fitzwalter'  is  mentioned  in  No.  888  as  at  Calais 
showing  much  interest  in  the  Paston  family.  It  may  be  observed  also  that  in  1476, 
Friday  '  next '  the  Decollation  of  St.  John  Baptist  (29th  August)  would  be  the  very 
next  day. 

263 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


894 

DAME  ELIZABETH  BREWS  TO  JOHN  PASTON  ' 

To  my  wurschypfull  cosyn^  John  Pastoriy  be  thys  bill 
delyvered,  ^c. 

1476  I  '\  YGHT  wurschypfull  cosyn,  I   recommande   me   un  to 
or         fX       yowe,  thankyng  zowe  hertely  for  the  grette  chere  that 

1477  ze  made  me  the  last  tyme  that  ze  were  with  me  at 
Norwych,  &c. 

And,  cosyn,  as  for  the  mater  that  was  put  in  my  nowncle 
Hastynges  and  Henry  Heydon,  I  ondyrstand  be  myn  uncle, 
that  ther  was  made  non  ende  therin,  whech  I  am  ryght  sory 
for.  Cosyn,  ze  be  remembred  what  ze  promysed  me  that, 
and  so  were  that  myn  uncle  and  Herry  Heydon  made  none 
ende  therin,  that  ze  wold  put  the  mater  in  me  ;  and  if  it 
please  zowe  so  for  to  do,  in  good  faith,  cosyn,  I  schall  goo  as 
wele  and  as  ryghtfuUy  and  consciensly  as  I  can  for  both  the 
partyes.  And,  cosyn,  if  it  please  zowe  to  com  to  Topcroft, 
and  poynt  ze  what  dey  when  ze  will  com,  I  schall  sende  for 
my  cosyn  to  be  ther  the  same  day.  And,  cosyn,  I  pray  zowe 
to  sende  me  worde  agayn  be  the  brynger  of  thys  letter,  howe 
ze  will  do,  &c. 

And  Almyghty  Jesus  hafe  zowe  in  kepyng,  &c. 

Be  zour  cosyn. 

Dame  Elizabeth   Brews. 

'  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  This  is  the  first  of  a  series  of  letters,  some  of  which 
were  certainly  written  in  February  1477,  relating  to  the  engagement  of  John  Paston 
to  Margery  Brews.  How  early  they  began  it  is  not  easy  to  say  precisely.  On  the 
back  of  this  letter  is  written,  apparently  in  the  hand  of  John  Paston,  to  whom  it  is 
addressed,  *  Letrae  dominas  Elyzabethae  Brews  et  Margariae  filae  {sic)  ejus.' 


264 


EDWARD  IV 


895 

DAME  ELIZABETH  BREWS  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 

Un  to  my  ryght  wurschypffull  cosyn,  John  Paston,  be 
thys  lettur  delyvered^  i^c. 

RYGHT  wurschypfull  cosyn,  I  recommande  me  un  [to] 
yowe,  &c.  And  I  send  my  husbonde  a  bill  of  the 
mater  that  ze  knowe  of,  and  he  wrote  an  other  bill  to 
me  agayn  towchyng  the  same  mater  ;  and  he  wold  that  ze 
schuld  go  un  to  my  maistresse  yowr  modur,  and  asaye  if  ze 
myght  gete  the  hole  xx/z.  in  to  zowr  handes,  and  then  he 
wolde  be  more  gladd  to  marye  with  zowe,  and  will  gyffe  zowe 
an  Qli.  And,  cosyn,  that  day  that  sche  is  maryed,  my  fadur 
will  gyffe  hyr  1.  merk.  But  and  we  acorde,  I  schall  gyffe 
yowe  a  grettere  tresur,  that  is,  a  wytty  gentylwoman,  and  if  I 
sey  it,  bothe  good  and  vertuos  ;  for  if  I  schuld  take  money 
for  hyr,  I  wold  not  gyffe  hyr  for  a  mli.  But,  cosyn,  I  trust 
zowe  so  meche  that  I  wold  thynke  her  wele  besett  on  zowe, 
and  ze  were  worthe  meche  more.  And,  cosyn,  a  lytyll  after 
that  ze  were  gone,  come  a  man  fro  my  cosyn  Derby,  and 
broght  me  wurde  that  suche  a  chance  fell  that  he  myght  not 
come  at  the  day  that  was  set,  as  I  schall  let  zowe  undyrstond 
more  pleynly,  when  I  speke  with  zowe,  &c.  But,  cosyn,  and 
it  wold  please  zowe  to  come  agayn  what  dey  that  ze  will  set, 
I  dare  undyrtake  that  they  schall  kepe  the  same  daye  ;  for  I 
wold  be  glad  that,  and  myn  husbond  and  ze  myght  acorde  in 
thys  maryage,  that  it  myght  be  my  fortune  to  make  and  ende 
in  thys  mater  betwene  my  cosyns  and  zowe,  that  yche  of  zowe 
myght  love  other  in  frendely  wyse,  &c.  And,  cosyn,  if  thys 
byll  please  not  zowr  entent,  I  pray  zowe  that  it  may  be 
brent,  &c. 

No  more  unto  yowe  at  thys  tyme,  but  Almyghty  Jesus 
preserve  zowe,  &c. 

By  zowr  cosyn. 

Dame  Elizabeth  Brews. 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]     See  preliminary  note  to  last  letter. 

265 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


896 

DAME  ELIZABETH  BREWS  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

'To  my  wurschypfull  cosyne,  John  Pasion^  be  this  bill 

delyveryd^  if^c. 

^477     ^'"^OSYN,  I  recomande  me  un  to  yowe,  thankyng  yowe 
FEB.       i  hertely  for  the  grette  chere  that  ye  made  me  and  all 

^"^-^  my  folkys,  the  last  tyme  that  I  was  at  Norwych  ;  and 
ye  promysyd  me,  that  ye  wold  never  breke  the  mater  to  Mar- 
grery  unto  suche  tyme  as  ye  and  I  were  at  a  point.  But  ye 
hafe  made  hyr  suche  advokett  for  yowe,  that  I  may  never  hafe 
rest  nyght  ner  day,  for  callyng  and  cryeng  uppon  to  brynge 
the  saide  mater  to  efFecte,  &c. 

And,  cosyn,  uppon  Fryday  is  Sent  Volentynes  Day,  and 
every  brydde  chesyth  hym  a  make  \mate\  ;  and  yf  it  lyke  yowe 
to  come  one  Thursday  at  nyght,  and  so  purvey  yowe,  that  ye 
may  abyde  there  tyll  Monday,  I  trusty  to  God,  that  ye  schall 
so  speke  to  myn  husband  ;  and  I  schall  prey  that  we  schall 
bryng  the  mater  to  a  conclusyon,  &c.     For,  cosyn, 

It  is  but  a  sympill  oke, 

That  [is]  cut  down  at  the  first  stroke. 

For  ye  will  be  resonabill,  I  trust  to  God,  Whech  hafe  yowe 

ever  in  Hys  mercyfull  kepyng,  &c. 

Be  yowr  cosyn.  Dame  Elizabeth  Brews, 
otherwes  schall  be  called  be  Godds  grace. 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  208.]  It  is  clear  from  internal  evidence  that  this  letter  was 
written  between  the  7th  and  the  12th  of  February,  and  the  fact  that  St.  Valentine's 
Day  (the  14th)  fell  on  Friday,  proves  the  year  to  have  been  14.77.  Besides  which,  we 
have  distinct  references  to  the  matter  further  on  in  the  dated  correspondence. 


266 


EDWARD  IV 


897 

MARGERY  BREWS  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

Unto  my  ryght  welebelovyd  Voluntyn,  John  Paston, 
Squyer^  be  this  bill  delyvered,  ^c. 

RYGHT  reverent  and  wurschypfull,  and  my  ryght  wele-  1477 
beloved  Voluntyne,  I  recomande  me  unto  yowe,  fFuU  feb. 
hertely  desyring  to  here  of  yowr  welefare,  whech  I 
beseche  Almyghty  God  long  for  to  preserve  un  to  Hys  plesur, 
and  yowr  herts  desyre.  And  yf  it  please  yowe  to  here  of  my 
welefar,  I  am  not  in  good  heele  of  body,  nor  of  herte,  nor  schall 
be  tyll  I  her  ffrom  yowe ; 

For  there  wottys  no  creature  what  peyn  that  I  endure, 
And  for  to  be  deede,  I  dare  it  not  dyscure  [discover^. 

And  my  lady  my  moder  hath  labored  the  mater  to  my  fFadur 
full  delygently,  but  sche  can  no  mor  gete  then  ye  knowe  of, 
for  the  whech  God  knowyth  I  am  full  scry.  But  yf  that  ye 
loffe  me,  as  I  tryste  verely  that  ye  do,  ye  will  not  lefFe  me 
therefor  ;  for  if  that  ye  hade  not  halfe  the  lyvelode  that  ye 
hafe,  for  to  do  the  grettest  labur  that  any  woman  on  lyve 
myght,  I  wold  not  forsake  yowe. 

And  yf  ye  commande  me  to  kepe  me  true  wherever  I  go, 
I  wyse  I  will  do  all  my  myght  yowe  to  love  and  never  no  mo. 
And  yf  my  freends  say,  that  I  do  amys, 

Thei  schal  not  me  let  so  for  to  do, 
Myne  herte  me  bydds  ever  more  to  love  yowe 

Truly  over  all  erthely  thing. 
And  yf  thei  be  never  so  wroth, 
I  tryst  it  schall  be  better  in  tyme  commyng. 

No  more  to  yowe  at  this  tyme,  but  the  Holy  Trinite  hafe 
yowe  in  kepyng.  And  I  besech  yowe  that  this  bill  be  not  seyn 
of  none  erthely  creatur  safe  only  your  selffe,  &c. 

And  thys  letter  was  indyte  at  Topcroft,  with  full  hevy 
herte,  &c. 

By  your  own,  Margery  Brews. 

^  [From  Fenn,  ii.  210.] 

267 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


898 

MARGERY  BREWS  TO  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 

To  my  ryght  weiebelovyd  cosyn,  John  Paston^ 
Swyer,  be  this  letter  delyveryd^  ^c. 

1477  1  '\  YGHT  wurschypfuU  and  weiebelovyd  Volentyne,  in  my 
FKB-  rv^  moste  umble  wyse,  I  recommande  me  un  to  yowe,  &c. 
And  hertely  I  thanke  yowe  for  the  lettur  whech  that 
ye  sende  me  be  John  Bekarton,  wherby  I  undyrstonde  and 
knowe,  that  ye  be  purposyd  to  come  to  Topcroft  in  schorte 
tyme,  and  withowte  any  erand  or  mater,  but  only  to  hafe  a 
conclusyon  of  the  mater  betwyx  my  fader  and  yowe ;  I  wolde 
be  most  glad  of  any  creatur  on  lyve,  so  that  the  mater  myght 
growe  to  effect.  And  ther  as  ye  say,  and  ye  come  and  fynde 
the  mater  no  more  towards  you  then  ye  dyd  afortyme,  ye  wold 
no  more  put  my  fader  and  my  lady  my  moder  to  no  cost  ner 
besenesse,  for  that  cause,  a  good  wyle  aftur,  wech  causyth 
myne  herte  to  be  full  hevy ;  and  yf  that  ye  come,  and  the 
mater  take  to  none  effecte,  then  schuld  I  be  meche  mor  sory 
and  full  of  hevynesse. 

And  as  for  my  selfe,  I  hafe  done  and  undyrstond  in  the 
mater  that  I  can  or  may,  as  Good  knowyth  ;  and  I  let  yowe 
pleynly  undyrstond,  that  my  fader  wyll  no  mor  money  parte 
with  all  in  that  behalfe,  but  an  C/f,  and  1.  marke,  whech  is 
ryght  far  fro  the  acomplyshment  of  yowr  desyre. 

Wherfore,  yf  that  ye  cowde  be  content  with  that  good,  and 
my  por  persone,  I  wold  be  the  meryest  mayden  on  grounde  ; 
and  yf  ye  thynke  not  yowr  selffe  so  satysfyed,  or  that  ye  myght 
hafe  mech  mor  good,  as  I  hafe  undyrstonde  be  yowe  afor  ; 
good,  trewe,  and  lovyng  volentyne,  that  ye  take  no  such  labur 
uppon  yowe,  as  to  come  more  for  that  mater,  but  let  is  [/>  ?] 
passe,  and  never  more  to  be  spokyn  of,  as  I  may  be  yowr  trewe 
lover  and  bedewoman  duryng  my  lyfe. 

*  [From  Fenn,  ii.  214.] 
268 


FEB, 


EDWARD  IV 

No  more  un  to  yowe  at  thys  tyme,  but  Almyghty  Jesus     1477 
preserve  yowe,  bothe  body  and  sowle,  &c. 

Be  your  Voluntyne, 

Margery  Brews. 


899 

THOMAS  KELA  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 

Un  to  my  ryght  wurschypfull  maister,  John  Paston, 
Swhyer^  be  this  bill  delivered,  &'c. 

RYGHT  wurschypfull  sir,  I  recomande  me  un  to  yowe, 
lettyng  yowe  knowe,  as  for  the  yonge  gentylwoman, 
sche  owyth  yowe  hyr  good  herte  and  love,  as  I  knowe 
be  the  comynicacion  that  I  hafe  hade  with  hyr  for  the  same. 

And,  sir,  ye  knowe  what  my  maister  and  my  lady  hath 
profered  with  hyr  CC.  merke.  And  I  dar  sey,  that  hyr 
chambr  and  areyment  schall  be  worthe  C.  merk.  And  I  harde 
my  lady  sey,  that  and  the  case  required,  both  ye  and  sche 
schuld  hafe  yowr  borde  with  my  lady  iij.  yer  aftr. 

And  I  understand  by  my  lady,  that  sche  wold  that  ye 
schuld  labur  the  mater  to  my  maister,  for  it  schuld  be  the 
bettr. 

And  I  harde  my  lady  sey, 

That  it  was  a  febill  oke, 

That  was  kit  down  at  the  first  stroke. 

And  ye  be  beholdyng  un  to  my  lady  for  hyr  good  wurde, 
for  sche  hath  never  preysyd  yowe  to  mech. 

Sir,  lyke  as  I  promysyd  yowe,  I  am  yowr  man,  and  my 
good  will  ye  schall  hafe  in  worde  and  dede,  &c. 

And  Jesus  hafe  yowe  in  Hys  mercyfull  kepyng,  &c. 

Be  yor  man,  Thomas  Kela. 

'  [From  Fenn,  ii.  216.] 


269 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

900 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  John  Pas  ton,  Esquyer,  at  Norwyche,  in  hast. 

^^11  T  RECOMAUNDE  me  to  yow,  letyng  yow  weete,  that 
FEB.  14  I  yisterdaye  beganne  the  grete  cowncell,  to  whyche  alle  the 
astats  off  the  londe  shall  com  to,  butt  if  it  be  ffor  gret  and 
reasonable  excusis ;  and  I  suppose  the  cheffe  cawse  off  thys 
assemble  is,  to  comon  what  is  best  to  doo,  now  uppon  the 
greet  change  by  the  dethe  off  the  Duke  of  Burgoyne,  and  ffor 
the  kepyng  off  Caleys  and  the  Marchys,  and  ffor  the  preserva- 
cion  off  the  amyteys  taken  late,  as  weell  with  Fraunce  as  now 
with  the  Membrys  off  Flaundres  ;  wher  to  I  dowt  nott  ther 
shall  be  in  all  hast  bothe  the  Duks  off  Clarance  and  Glowcestre, 
wheroff  1  wolde  that  my  brother  E.^  wyst. 

Item,  I  ffeele  butt  litell  effecte  in  the  labor  off  W.  Alyng- 
ton  ;  neverthelesse  I  deme  it  is  nott  for  yow.  She  shall  not 
passe  CC.  mark,  as  fferr  as  I  can  undrestand  aparte. 

Item,  I  will  nott  fforget  yow  otherwyse. 

Itt  is  so  that  thys  daye  I  heer  grett  liklyhood,  that  my 
Lorde  Hastyngs  shall  hastely  goo  to  Caleys  with  greet  com- 
pany ;  iff  I  thynke  it  be  for  yow  to  be  on  \_one\  I  shall  nott 
fforgeet  yow. 

Item,  thys  daye  the  mater  by  twyen  Mestresse  Anne 
Haulte  and  me  hathe  been  soor  broken  bothe  to  the  Car- 
dinall,^  to  my  Lorde  Chamberleyn,*  and  to  my  selffe,  and  I 
am  in  goode  hope.  When  I  heer  and  knowe  moor,  I  shall 
sende  yow  worde. 

It  semythe  that  the  worlde  is  alle  qwaveryng  ;  it  will 
reboyle  somwher,  so  that  I  deme  yonge  men  shall  be 
cherysshyd  ;  take  yowr  hert  to  yow.  I  ffeer  that  I  can  nott 
be  excusyd,  but  that  I  shall  fforthe  with  my  Lorde  Hastyngs 
ovyr  the  see,  but  I  shall  sende  yow  worde  in  hast,  and  iff  I  goo, 
I  hope  nott  to  tary  longe. 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  20+.]  2  Edmund  Paston,  who  was  in  the  garrison  of  Calais. 

3  Thomas  Bourchier,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury. — F. 
*  WilHam,  Lord  Hastyngs. — F. 

270 


EDWARD  IV 

Item,  to  my  brother   Edmond.       I  am  like  to  speke  to     I477 
Mestresse  Dyxon  in  hast,  and  som  deme  that  ther  shall   be    ^^^'  H 
condyssendyd,  that  iff  E.  P.  come  to  London  that  hys  costs 
shall  be  payed  ffor. 

I  shall  hastely  sende  yow  worde  off  moor  thyngs. 

Wretyn  at  London,  the  xiiij.  day  off  Feverer,  anno  E.  iiij" 
xvj.  the  Fryday  a  for  Fastyngong. 

John  Paston,  K. 


901 

JOHN    PASTON    TO    MARGARET    PASTON  1 

To  my  ryght  worchepfull  modyr^  Margaret  Paston. 

RYGHT  worschepfull  modyr,  aftyr  all  dwtes  of  recom-  march  8 
mendacyon,  in  as  humble  wyse  as  I  can,  I  beseche 
yow  of  your  dayly  blyssyng.  Modyr,  please  yt  yow 
to  wett,  that  the  cause  that  Dame  Elizabeth  Brews  desyreth  to 
mete  with  yow  at  Norwyche,  and  not  at  Langley,  as  I  apoyntyd 
with  yow  at  my  last  being  at  Mawtby,  is  by  my  meanys,  for 
my  brodyr  Thomas  Jermyn,  whyche  knowyth  nought  of  the 
mate  \matc}{\^  telyth  me,  that  the  causey  or  ye  can  comme  to 
Bokenham  Fery  is  so  over  flowyn  that  ther  is  no  man  that  may 
on  ethe  passe  it,  though  he  be  ryght  well  horsyd  ;  whyche  is 
no  mete  wey  for  yow  to  passe  over,  God  defend  it.  But,  all 
thyngs  rekynyd,  it  shalbe  lesse  cost  to  yow  to  be  at  Norwyche, 
as  for  a  day  or  tweyn,  and  passe  not,  then  to  mete  at  Langly, 
wher  every  thyng  is  dere  ;  and  your  horse  may  be  sent  home 
ayen  the  same  Wednysday. 

Modyr,  I  beseche  yow  for  dyvers  causys,  that  my  syster 
Anne  may  come  with  yow  to  Norwyche  ;  modyr,  the  mater 
is  in  a  resonable  good  wey,  and  I  trust  with  Gods  mercy,  and 
with  your  good  help,  that  it  shall  take  effect  bettyr  to  myn 
avauntage  then  I  told  yow  of  at  Mawtby  ;  for  I  trow  ther  is 

^  [From  Fenn,  ii.  220.]  This  letter  evidently  refers  to  a  meeting  arranged  between 
Margaret  Paston  and  Dame  Elizabeth  Brews  on  the  subject  of  John  Paston's  approach- 
ing marriage,  which  took  place  in  the  latter  part  of  the  year  1477. 

271 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1477  not  a  ky rider  woman  leveing  then  I  shall  have  to  my  modyr 
MARCH  8  ill  lawe,  if  the  mater  take,  nor  yet  a  kynder  fadyr  in  lawe  then 
I  shall  have,  though  be  he  hard  to  me  as  yett.  All  the  cyr- 
cumstancys  of  the  mater,  whyche  I  trust  to  tell  yow  at  your 
comyng  to  Norwyche,  cowd  not  be  wretyn  in  iij.  levys  of 
paper,  and  ye  know  my  lewd  hed  well  i  nough,  I  may  not 
wryght  longe,  wherfFor  I  iFery  over  all  thyngs  tyll  I  may 
awayte  on  yow  my  selff.  I  shall  do  tonnen  ^  in  to  your  place 
a  doseyn  ale,  and  bred  acordyng,  ayenst  Wednysday.  If 
Syme  myght  be  forborn  it  wer  well  done,  that  he  war  at 
Norwyche  on  Wednysday  in  the  mornyng  at  markett. 

Dame  Elizabeth  Brewse  shall  lye  at  Jon  Cookys ;  if  it 
myght  please  yow,  I  wold  be  glad  that  she  myght  dyne  in 
your  howse  on  Thursday,  for  ther  shold  ye  have  most  secret 
talkyng.  And  modyr,  at  the  reverence  of  God,  beware  that 
ye  be  so  purveyd  for,  that  ye  take  no  cold  by  the  wey  towards 
Norwyche,  for  it  is  the  most  peraylous  marche  that  ever  was 
seyn  by  eny  manys  dayes  that  now  lyveth  ;  and  I  prey  to  Jesu 
preserve  yow  and  yours. 

Wretyn  at  Topcroft,  the  viij.  day  of  Marche. 

Your  sone  and  humbyll  servaunt,         J.  P. 


902 
SIR  THOMAS  BREWS  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON2 

To  my  ryght  wurschypfidl  cosyn^  Syr  Jhon  Paston^  Knyght^ 
be  this  letter  delivered,  &'c. 

RYGHT  wurschypfuU,  and  my  hertely  welebelovyd  cosyn, 
I  recommande  me  unto  yowe,  desyring  to  here  of 
yowr  welefar,  whech  I  pray  God  may  be  as  contynuall 
good  as  I  wolde  hafe  myn  own.  And,  cosyn,  the  cause  of  my 
wryting  un  to  yow,  at  thys  tyme,  is,  I  fele  wele  be  my  cosyn 
John  yowr  broder,  that  ye  hafe  undyrstondyng  of  a  mater, 

1  i.e.  cause  to  be  tunned. 

2  [From  Fenn,  ii.  224.]     The  date  of  this  letter,  as  of  the  last,  is  fixed  by  the 
subject. 

■272 


EDWARD  IV 

whech  is  In  comynicacyon  tochyng  a  maryage,  with  Godds  1477 
grace,  to  be  concluded  betwyx  my  saide  cosyn  yowr  broder,  march  8 
and  my  doghter  Margery,  wheche  is  far  commonyd,  and  not 
yyt  concluded,  ner  noght  schall  ner  may  be  tyll  I  hafe  answer 
from  yowe  agayn  of  yowr  good  will  and  asent  to  the  seid 
mater  ;  and  also  of  the  obligacyon  weche  that  I  sende  yowe 
herewith ;  for,  cosyn,  I  wold  be  sory  to  se  owther  my  cosyn 
yowr  broder,  or  my  doghtr,  dryvyn  to  leve  so  meane  a  lyff  as 
thei  schuld  do  yf  the  v'f-li.  [^120],  schuld  be  payde  of  ther 
maryage  money. 

And  cosyn,  I  hafe  takyn  my  selfe  so  nere  in  levyng  of  this 
vj''*7/.,  that  wher  as  I  hade  layde  upp  an  C/z.  for  the  maryage 
of  a  yonger  doghter  of  myn,  I  hafe  nowe  lent  the  saide  Qli.  and 
xx//.  over  that,  to  my  cosyn  yowr  broder,  to  be  paide  ageyn 
be  suche  esy  days  as  the  obligacyon,  weche  I  sende  yowe  her- 
wyth,  specyfyes.  And,  cosyn,  I  were  ryght  lothe  to  be  stowe 
so  mech  uppon  one  doghter,  that  the  other  her  susters  schuld 
far  the  wars  ;  wherfor,  cosyn,  y^  ye  wyll  that  thys  mater  schall 
take  effect  undyr  suche  forme  as  my  cosyn  yowr  broder  hath 
wretyn  unto  yowe,  I  pray  yowe  put  therto  yowr  good  wylle, 
and  sum  of  yowr  coste,  as  I  hafe  done  of  myn  more  largely 
then  ever  I  purpose  to  do  to  any  tweyn  of  hyr  susters,  as  God 
knowyth  myn  entent.  Whom  I  besech  to  send  yowe  yowr 
levest  herts  desyr. 

Wretyn  at  Topcroft,  the  viij.  day  of  March,  &c. 

Be  your  cosyn, 

Thomas  Brews,  Knight. 


SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTONi 

To  John  Paston^  Esquyer^  in  haste. 

1HAVE  received  yowr  letter,  and  yow[r]  man,  J.  Bykerton,  march  9 
by  whom  I  knowe  all  the  mater  off^  Mestresse  Brews, 
whyche  iff^  it  be  as  he  seythe,  I  praye  Godde  brynge  it 
to  a  goode  ende. 

1   [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.] 
VOL.  v. S  273 


THE    PASTON  LETTERS 

I4'7'7  Item,  as  for  thys  mater  of  Mestresse  Barly/  I  holde  it 

MARCH  9  but  a  bare  thynge.     I  feele  weell  that  itt  passyth  nott     . 

.  marke.  I  syghe  hyr  for  yowr  sake.  She  is  a  lytell  onys  ; 
she  maye  be  a  woman  heer  aftre,  iff  she  be  nott  olde  nowe  ; 
hir  person  semyth  xiij.  yere  off  age  ;  hyr  yerys,  men  sey,  ben 
full  xviij.  She  kowyth  nott  of  the  mater,  I  suppose  ;  never- 
thelesse  she  desyryd  to  see  me  as  gladde  as  I  was  to  se  hyr. 

I  praye  yow  sende  me  some  wryghtyng  to  Caleys  off 
yowr  spede  with  Mestresse  Brewys.  Bykerton  tellyth  me  that 
she  lovyth  yow  weell.  Iff  I  dyed,  I  hadde  lever  ye  hadde  hyr 
than  the  Lady  Wargrave ;  neverthelesse  she  syngeth  weell  with 
an  harpe. 

Clopton  is  aferde  off  Sir  T.  Greye,  for  he  is  a  wydower 
now  late,  and  men  sey  that  he  is  aqueyntyd  with  hyr  of  olde. 

No  more.  Wretyn  on  Sondaye,  the  ix.  daye  off  Marche, 
anno  E.  iiij''  xvij.°  to  Caleys  warde. 

Iff  ye  have  Mestresse  Brews,  and  E.  Paston  Mestresse 
Bylyngford,  ye  be  lyke  to  be  bretheryn. 

J.  Paston,  K. 

904 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  2 

Thys  bylle  he  delyverd  to  Thomas  Grene,  good  man  of  the  George^ 
by  Powlys  tVharffe,  or  to  hys  wyff,  to  send  to  Sir  John  Paston^ 
wherso  evere  he  he^  at  Caleys^  London^  or  other  placys. 

RYGHT  worchepfuU  sir,  and  my  most  good  and  kynde 
brodyr,  in  as  humbyll  wyse  as  I  can,  I  recomand  me 
to  yow.  Sir,  it  is  so  that  I  have,  sythe  John  Bekurton 
departyd  fro  hens,  ben  at  Toppcrofft  at  Syr  Tohmas  Brewse  ; 
and  as  for  the  mater  that  I  sent  yow  word  of  by  Jon  Bekurton, 
towchyng  my  sylff  and  Mastress  Margery  Brews,  I  am  yet 
at  no  serteynte,  hyr  fadyr  is  so  hard  ;  but  T  trow  I  have  the 
good  wyll  of  my  lady  hyr  modyr  and  hyr  ;  but  as  the  mater 

1  Fenn  reads  this  name  Burly,  but  I  think  erroneously. 

2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

274 


EDWARD  IV 

provyth,  I  shall  send  yow  woord,  with  Godes  grace,  in  short     1477 
tyme.  march  9 

But  as  for  John  Bekurton,  I  prey  yow  dele  with  hym  for 
suerte  as  a  soudyor  shold  be  delt  with  ;  trust  hym  never  the 
more  for  the  bylle  that  I  sent  yow  by  hym,  but  as  a  man  at 
wylde,  for  every  thyng  that  he  told  me  is  not  trewe  ;  for 
he  departyd  with  ought  lycence  of  hys  mastyr,  Syr  Thomas 
Brewse,  and  is  fere  endangeryd  [indehe^/'j  to  dyvers  in  thys 
contrey.  I  prey  God  that  I  wryght  not  to  yow  of  hym  to 
late ;  but  for  all  thys  I  knowe  none  untrowthe  in  hym  ;  but 
yet  I  prey  yow,  trust  hym  not  over  myche  upon  my  woord. 

Syr,  Perse  Mody^  recomandyth  hym  to  your  mastyrshep, 
and  besecheth  yow  to  send  hym  word  in  hast,  hough  he  shall 
be  demeanyd  at  your  place  at  Caster  ;  for  he  is  asygnyd  to  no 
body  as  yet,  to  take  of  mete  and  drynk,  nor  yet  wher  that  he 
shall  have  money  to  paye  for  hys  mete  and  drynk ;  and  now  is 
the  cheff  replenysheing  of  your  warenn  there,  the  avauntage 
of  the  dove  howse  wer  well  for  hym,  tyll  ye  come  hom  your 
sylff. 

Sir,  I  prey  yow  pardon  me  of  my  wryghtyng,  hough  so 
ever  it  be,  for  carpenters  of  my  crafte  that  I  use  now,  have 
not  alderbest  ther  wyttys  ther  owne.  And  Jesu  preserve 
yow. 

Wretyn  at  Norwyche,  the  ix.  day  of  Marche,  anno  E  iiij'' 
septimo  decymo.  J.  P. 

905 
SIR  THOMAS  BREWS  2 

MEMORANDUM.  —  To     let     my    cosyn,    Margaret    1477 
Paston,  ondyrstand  that  for  a  jontor  to  be  mad  in 
Sweynsthorp  in  hand,  and  for  a  jontore  of  no  more 
but  X.  mark  ought  of  Sparham,  I  wylle  depart  with  CC.  mark 

1  Perse  Moody  was  a  servant  of  Sir  John  Paston's,  now  at  Caister. — F. 

2  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  This  paper  was  evidently  drawn  up  about  the  same 
time  as  the  last  letter.  It  is  a  draft  in  John  Paston's  handwriting,  but  is  evidently 
written  as  in  the  name  of  Sir  Thomas  Brews.  It  is  endorsed  in  a  more  modern 
hand  :  '  A  determinacion  of  Sir  Tho.  Brews  how  much  he  would  gyve  with  his 
daughter  Margery  in  mariage.' 

275 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1477  i"^  hand,  and  to  give  theym  ther  boord  free  as  for  ij.  or  iij. 
yer  in  serteyn,  or  ellys  CCC.  mark  with  ought  ther  boord, 
payable  by  1.  mark  yerly  tyll  the  some  of  CCC.  mark  be  full 
payed. 

Item,  I  wyll  geve  CCCC.  mark,  payable  1//.,  in  hand  at 
the  day  of  maryage,  and  \/i.  yerly  tyll  the  some  of  CCCC. 
mark  be  full  payed  upon  thes  condycyons  folowing. 

Wher  of  on  condycyon  is  thys,  that  I  wyll  lend  my  cosyn 
John  Paston  vj"''//,,  besyd  hys  maryage  money,  to  pledge 
ought  the  maner  of  Sweynsthorpe,  so  that  he  may  fynd  syche 
a  frend  as  wyll  pay  me  a  yen  the  seyd  vj""//.  by  xx.  mark  a 
yer,  so  that  it  be  not  payed  of  the  maryage  money,  nor  of  the 
propre  goodes  of  my  seyd  cosyn  John. 

Or  ellys,  an  other  condycyon  is  thys,  if  it  be  so  that  my 
seyd  cosyn  John  may  be  sufFred,  fro  the  day  of  hys  maryage 
to  my  doughter,  to  take  the  hole  profites  of  the  maner  of 
Sparham,  besyde  the  maner  of  Sweynsthorpe,  for  terme  of  ther 
two  lyves,  and  the  longest  of  theym  leveing,  yet  wyll  I  be  agre- 
able  to  depart  with  the  seyd  CCC.  mark,  payable  ayen  in  forme 
above  seyd  \_and  to  geve  theym  ther  boord  for  a  yer  or  two']} 

And  if  thes  or  eny  of  the  conclusyons  may  be  takyn,  I  am 
agreable  to  make  the  bargayn  swer,  or  ellys  no  more  to  be 
spokyn  of. 


906 

JOHN  PYMPE  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  2 

I'd  Master  Sir  John  Paston,  be  this  letter  delyverid  in  Calis. 

[march]    T   XONWRE  and  joye  be  to  yow,  my  ryght  gode  master, 

I      I       and  most  assured  brother  ;  letyng  yow  know  that  al 

-*-  -■"      yowre  welwillers  and  servaunts,  in  these  partyes,  that 

I   know,  fare  well,  and  better  wold,  if  they  mowht  here  of 

'  These  words  are  crossed  out  with  the  pen. 

2  [From  Fenn,  ii.  226.]  This  letter,  Fenn  tells  us,  was  endorsed  under  the 
address  in  a  handwriting  of  the  time  which  he  believed  to  be  Sir  John  Paston's — 'Jon 
Pympe,  xvj.  die  Mar\,  anno  E.  4,  17,'  showing  the  date  at  which  it  was  received. 

276 


EDWARD  IV 

yowre  wellbeyng,  and  forthwith  sum  of  yowre  Frenche  and     1477 
Borgoyne  tidyngs  ;  ffor  we  in  these  partyes  be  in  grete  drede  [march] 
lest   the   French  Kyng  with  sum  assaults  shuld  in  eny  wise 
distourbe  yow  of  yowr  soft,  sote  \_sweef\,  and  sewre  slepys,  but 
as  yet  we  no  thyng  can  here  that  he  so  disposeth  hym. 

Mary,  we  have  herd  sey,  that  the  frowys^  of  Broggys, 
with  there  hye  cappes,  have  gyven  sum  of  yow  grete  clappys, 
and  that  the  fete  of  her  armys  doyng  is  such,  that  they  smyte 
al  at  the  mowthe,  and  at  the  grete  ende  of  the  thyeh  ;  but  in 
faith  we  care  not  for  yow,  for  we  know  well  that  ye  be  gode 
ynowh  at  defence.  But  we  here  sey,  that  they  be  of  such 
corage,  that  they  gyve  yow  moo  strokys  than  ye  do  to  them, 
and  that  they  strike  sorer  than  ye  also.  But  I  thynk  that  the 
English  ladyes  and  jentylwomen,  and  the  pore  also,  can  do  as 
well  as  they,  and  lyst  not  to  lerne  of  them  no  thyng;  and 
therefor  we  drede  lest  ther  hye  corages  shuld  meve  them  to 
make  yow  warre  also.  But  God  defend,  for  by  my  trowth 
than  have  ye  much  to  do ;  for  hit  were  better  and  more  ese 
for  to  labor  iij.  or  fowre  dayes  with  mattokks  and  pykeisys  to 
over  turne  yowr  sande  hills,  as  we  here  saye  ye  do  ryht  wur- 
shipfully,  than  only  one  day  to  endure  theyre  fers  encountrys  ; 
so  as  ye  myht  owther  gete  or  save  yowr  wurshippys  by  ;  and 
loke  that  ye  trust  to  have  no  rescow  of  us,  for,  so  God  me 
helpe,  we  have  y  nowh  to  do  in  these  partyes  with  the  same 
werrs.  But  in  one  thyng  we  preyse  yowre  sadnessys  and  dis- 
crecionys  ryht  much,  that  is,  in  kepyng  of  yowr  trewse  and 
pese  with  the  Kyng  of  Fraunce,  as  the  Kyng  hath  com- 
maundid  ;  and  a  grete  reson  why,  for  hit  were  to  much  for 
yow  to  have  werre  with  all  the  world  at  onys,  ffor  the  werre 
a  fore  seid  kepith  yow  blameles;  ffor  every  resonable  man 
wetyth  well,  that  hit  is  to  much  for  eny  pepyll  levyng  to  do 
bothe  at  onys. 

Syr,  as  for  the  more  parts  off  my  thowht,  I  praye  yow 
recomaunde  me  un  to  yowr  self,  prayyng  yow  that  y  may 
contynew  in  such  case  as  yowr  godenes  hath  taken  me  of  old, 
and  if  ye  lyst  to  send  eny  tydyngs,  or  other  thyng  to  the 

1  Fraus,  i.e.  women.     The  writer's  pleasantry  in  this  passage  is  certainly  rather 
coarse. 

277 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1477  partyes  that  were  wont  to  warme  theym  by  yowr  fyre,  in  feith 
[march]    I  shall  do  yowr  erand. 

And  as  for  barley,  hit  is  of  the  same  pryce  that  hit  was 
wont  to  be  of,  and  is  the  most  sure  corne,  and  best  enduryng 
that  may  be.  And,  syr,  where  that  sumtyme  was  a  lytyll  hole 
in  a  wall,  is  now  a  dore  large  ynowh  and  esy  passage,  whereof 
ye  were  the  deviser,  and  have  thank  for  yowr  labor  of  sum 
partyes,  but  no  thyng  lastyth  evyr.  Y  mene  that  y  trow,  my 
passage  shall  hastyly  faile  me,  and  the  dore  shalbe  shet  up 
agayne,  lesse  than  Fortun  be  agreable  to  have  my  counseile 
kept ;  for  not  long  ago,  makyng  my  entre  at  that  passage,  I 
saw  a  sparow  that  useth  those  ewrys  [^eireys'],  and  I  saw  her  sytt 
so  stille  that  y  cowde  not  endure,  but  y  must  neds  shote  her,  and 
so,  God  me  help,  I  smote  her,  I  trow  evyn  to  the  hert ;  and 
so  I  drede  me  lest  owther  the  barley  wyll  ete  the  sparow, 
or  ells  the  sparow  wyll  ete  the  barley,  but  as  yet  all  is 
well,  but  reson  shewt  me  that  hit  must  neds  fayle  by  con- 
tynewauns,  lesse  than  I  forsake  bothe  the  sparow  and  the 
barley  also.^ 

Syr,  I  have  thank  for  the  shew  that  I  onys  made  of  yow 
and  daily  gramercy,  and  ye  theire  prayer, 

Syr,  forthemore  I  beseche  yow,  as  ye  wyll  do  cny  thyng 
for  me,  that  ye  se  o  day  for  my  sake,  and  for  yowr  own 
plesure,  all  the  gode  hors  in  Caleys,  and  if  ther  be  among 
theym  eny  pric  ^  horse  of  deds,  that  is  to  sell,  in  especiall  that  he 
be  well  trottyng  of  his  owne  corage,  with  owte  fors  ^  of  sporis, 
and  also  a  steryng  \_stirring~\  hors  if  he  be,  he  is  the  better  ;  I 
pray  yow  send  me  word  of  his  color,  deds,  and  corage,  and  also 
of  his  price,  feynyng  as  ye  wold  by  hym  yowrself,  and  also  I 
wold  have  hym  sumwhat  large,  not  with  the  largest  ;  but  no 
smalle  hors,  as  more  than  a  dowble  hors  ;  prayyng  yow  above 
all  thyngs  to  have  this  in  remembrauns,  and  that  hastily  as 
may  be,  for  ther  is  late  promysed  me  help  to  such  an  entent, 

^  Perhaps   this   enigmatical    passage    may   have    reference   to   the    Mrs,    Barly 
mentioned  in  No.  903. 

2  In  the  modern  version,  Fenn  reads  here,  '  any  prized  horse  of  deeds,'  a  reading 
which  seems  to  me  questionable. 

3  '  Fort '  in  Fenn,  which  is  probably  a  misprint,  as  the  word  is  spelled  '  force  '  on 
the  opposite  page. 

278 


EDWARD  IV 

and  I  wote  not  how  long  hit  shall  endure;  and  therfor  1  be-     1477 
seche  yow  send  me  word  by  tyme.  [march] 

I  trow  the  Frenshe  men  have  taken  up  al  the  gode  hors  in 
Pycardye,  and  also  they  be  wont  to  be  hevy  hors  in  labor,  and 
that  I  love  not,  but  a  hevy  hors  of  flesh,  and  lyht  of  corage  y 
love  well,  for  y  love  no  hors  that  wyll  al  way  be  lene  and 
slender  like  grehounds.     God  kepe  yow. 

Yowr,  J.  Pympe. 

Y  pray  yow  to  recomaund  me  to  my  cosyn  Sir  John  Scot 
and  all  his,  in  especiall  Mastres  Benyngfeld.^ 


907 
JOHN  PYMPE  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON2 

'To  Syr  John  Paston^  Knyht,  be  this  delyverid  in  Calice. 

MASTER  Paston,  I  recommaund  me  to  yow;  and  by  [march?] 
cause  that  I  have  wrytyn  to  yow  iij.  long  letteres  ; 
which  as  yet  be  answereles,  I  wote  not  whether  that 
the  length  of  mater  acumbred  yow,  or  elles  the  simpylnes  of 
the  effect  displesid  yow,  or  elles  that  ye  have  utterly  refusid 
the  proferes  of  my  pore  servyce  and  frendeship ;  but  which  of 
these  soo  ever  hit  be,  hit  hevyeth  me. 

Syr,  hit  nedith  not,  I  trow,  to  send  yow  the  tidynges  of 
these  partyes,  how  be  hit  I  have  thryes  send  yow  such  as  here 
were,  in  entent  that  ye  shuld  send  us  of  yowres ;  but  as  long 
as  my  lord  and  yowres  is  there,  ye  can  not  faile  to  have  the 
certeynte  of  all  owre  English  aventures,  which  is  grete  ese  to 
yowr  frendes  and  servauntes  in  this  contre,  for  so  much  as  , 

they  may  make  her  letteres  shorter  by  so  much. 

Syr,  at  the  wrytyng  of  this  letter,  I  was  in  Kent,  where  all 
thyng  that  I  rejoisid,  I  wishid  yow  part  of,  or  all ;  and  as  for 

1  Margaret,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Scot,  and  wife  to  Edmund  Bedingfeld. — F. 

2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  was  probably  written  about  the  end  of 
March  1477,  as  the  first  of  the  three  which  preceded  (No.  906)  was  received  by  Sir 
John  in  Calais  on  the  1 6th  of  the  month. 

279 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1477  myself,  I  am  styll  yowr  ser vaunt  and  bedeman,  and  so  am 
[march?]  bownd  to  be  so  sore  and  sewrely,  that  I  can  not  unbynde 
me. 

Syr,  this  is  the  v.  letter  that  I  have  sent  yow,  whereyn 
thys  entent  that  folowyth  was  all  wayes  on,  that  is  to  say,  that 
hit  plesid  yow  sum  on  day  to  take  so  much  labour  for  me  for 
to  se  the  jentyllest  hors  in  Calice  that  is  to  be  sold,  and  to  lett 
me  know  of  his  colowre,  dedes,  and  price,  remembryng  that 
he  be  also  large  as  mesure  wyll,  for  I  love  no  small  hors,  nor 
hors  that  wyll  evyr  be  lene  and  slendyr  ;  but  I  wold  have  hym 
hye  truttyng,  if  hit  wylbe,  and  if  he  be  styryng  with  all,  he 
shall  plese  me  the  better,  for  I  wuld  have  hym  all  for  the  plesur, 
and  for  the  werre,  but  if  he  myht  be  for  bothe.  Veryly  ther 
is  no  tidynges  on  that  side  the  se,  safe  only  the  welfare  of  yow 
and  all  other  there,  that  I  wuld  so  fayne  here  of  as  of  a  jentyll 
trottyng  hors  that  were  lyght  and  pleasaunt  in  dedes,  if  eny 
such  be  there.  Flemysh  hors  I  thenk  ye  have  y  nowh  that 
wyll  play  for  a  myle  or  ij.,  but  such  we  have  here  also  ;  how 
be  hit  I  pray  yow  send  me  word  of  yowre  store,  and  be  sewre 
of  the  price,  if  ye  like  eny,  or  elles  let  sum  man  for  yow. 

No  more,  but  God  kepe  yow,  prayyng  yow  to  recom- 
maund  me  to  my  cosyn  Syr  John  Scot,  and  to  Syr  Tyry 
Robsert.  Let  the  letter  be  sent  to  the  godewif  of  yowr 
loggyng.  By  yowr  John   Pympe. 

908 
JOHN  PYMPE  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  Master  Sir  John  Fasten^  Knight,  be  this 
letter  delyvered  in  Calis. 

1477      I  />RESH  amorouse  sihts  of  cuntreys  ferre  and  straunge 
ri        Have  all  fordoone "  your  old  affeccion  ; 

In  plesurys  new,  your  hert  dooth  score  and  raunge 
So  hye  and  ferre,  that  like  as  the  fawcon 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  234.]  We  may  as  well  place  this  letter — the  only  remaining 
one  of  the  series  that  has  been  preserved — immediately  after  the  other  two.  John 
Pympe  seems  to  have  been  a  very  industrious  correspondent,  and  the  art  of  writing,  in 
prose  or  verse,  came  to  him  very  easily.  2  Destroyed. — F. 

280 


EDWARD  IV 

Which  is  alofte,  tellith  scorne  to  loke  a  down  1477 

On  hym  that  wont  was  her  feders  to  pyke  and  ympe  ;  ^ 
Ryht  so  forgotyn  ye  have  your  pore  Pympe, 

That  wrytith,  sendith,  and  wisshith  alday  your  wele 

More  than  his  owne  ;  but  ye  ne  here,  ne  se, 

Ne  sey,  ne  send,  and  evyr  I  write  and  sele 

In  prose  and  ryme,  as  well  as  hit  will  be. 

Sum  evyll  tong,  I  trow,  myss  sayeth  of  me 

And  ells  your  fast  and  feithfull  frendelynes 

Ye  thenk  mysspent  on  such  as  I,  I  gesse. 

I  wyll  abate  my  customable  concourse, 

To  yow  so  costuouse,'  whan  so  evyr  ye  com  agayn. 

Which  that  I  fele  of  reson,  by  the  course 

Of  my  proferid  servyce,  hath  made  yow  so  unfayne  ; 

For  veryly  the  water  of  the  fowntayne 

With  brede  only  forthwith  yowre  presens 

Me  shuld  content  much  more  than  your  expense. 

But  ay  deme  I  thus  that  Fortun  hath  hyryd  yow. 

For  she  but  late  of  sorowys  moo  than  many 

Hath  rakyd  un  to  myn  hert  an  hepe  more  than  a  moowe. 

And  wuld  that  ye  shuld  ley  thereon  on  hye 

Your  hevy  unkyndenes  to  make  hit  fast  to  lye, 

And  God  knowth  well  hit  cannot  long  lye  there 

But  hit  wyll  bryng  me  to  the  chirch  bere. 

Take  hit  awaye  therefore,  y  praye  yow  fayre, 
For  hardyly  my  hert  beryth  hevy  y  nowh, 
For  there  is  Sorow  at  rest  as  in  hys  chayre, 
Fixid  so  fast  with  hys  prikks  rowh, 
That  in  gode  feith  I  wote  not  whan  I  lowh,^ 
For,  Master  Paston,  the  thyng  whereon  my  blisse 
Was  holly  sette,  is  all  fordoone,  I  wysse. 

By  your  John  Pympe, 
thes  beyng  the  vj.  letter  that  I  have  send  yow. 

1  A  term  in  Falconry,  signifying  the  adding  a  piece  to  a  feather  in   a  hawk's 
wing. — F.  ^  Expensive. 

3  Laughed  ?     Fenn  in  his  modern  version  reads  '  when  I  love.' 

281 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1477  Alway  prayyng  yow  to  remembre  the  hors  that  I  have  in 

every  letter  wryten  for  ;  as  thus,  that  hit  wuld  plese  yow  to 
undrestond  who  hath  the  gentyllest  hors  in  trottyng  and 
steryng  that  is  in  Calis,  and  if  he  be  to  sell,  to  send  me  word 
of  hys  pris,  largenesse,  and  colour,  Hytt  is  told  me,  that  the 
Master  Porter  hath  a  coragiouse  ronyd  hors,  and  that  he  wuld 
putt  hym  away  by  cause  he  is  daungerous  in  companye  ;  and 
of  that  I  force  \_care]  not,  so  that  he  be  not  chorlissh  at  a  spore, 
as  plungyng  ;  and  also  I  sett  not  by  hym,  but  if  he  trotte  hye 
and  gentilly.     No  more,  but  God  kepe  yow. 

John  Pympe. 

909 
SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  hys  weell  helovyd  brother^  John  Paston,  Esquyer. 

1RECOMANDE  me  to  yow,  letyng  yow  weete  that  1 
receyvyd  a  letter  of  yowres  by  Edward  Hensted  ij.  dayes 
aftre  that  Whetley  was  departyd  from  me,  whyche  he 
hadde  forgetyn  in  hys  caskett,  as  he  seyde,  wherofFI  sholde  have 
sent  yow  answer  by  Whetley,  iff  I  had  hadde  it  toffore  he 
wente,  notwithstandyng  I  am  ryght  lothe  to  wryghte  in  that 
mater  offte ;  for  for  a  conclusion  I  wrote  to  my  moodre  by 
Peerse  Moody  alle  that  I  myght  and  wolde  doo  ther  in.  Ye 
have  also  nowe  wretyn  ageyn.  Yow  neede  nott  to  praye  me 
to  doo  that  myght  be  to  yowr  profyght  and  worship,  that  I 
myght  doo  ofter  than  ones,  or  to  late  me  weete  theroff ;  for  to 
my  power  I  wolde  do  for  yow,  and  take  as  moche  peyne  for 
yowr  weell,  and  remembre  itt  when  per  case  ye  sholde  nott 
thynke  on  it  yowr  selffe,  I  wolde  be  as  gladde  that  one  gaffe 
yow  a  maner  of  xx//.  by  yeer,  as  iff  he  gave  it  to  my  selff  by 
my  trowthe. 

Item,  wher  ye  thynke  that  I  may  with  concience  recom- 
pence  it  ageyn  on  to  owr  stokke  off  other  londys  that  I  have 

1  [From  Paston   Mss.,   B.M.]      This  letter  is  clearly  written  in   answer  to  an 

application  by  John  Paston  to  his  brother  to  aid  him  in  making  arrangements  with 

Sir  Thomas  Brews  in  the  spring  of  1477.  Although  the  signature  is  lost,  the  hand- 
writing is  that  of  Sir  John  Paston. 

282 


EDWARD  IV 

off  that  valywe  in  fee  symple,  it  is  so  that  Snaylwell,  by  my    1477 
grauntefadres  will  ones,  and  by  my  fadris  will  sceconderely,  is 
entaylyd  to  the  issyw  of  my  fadres  body. 

Item,  as  for  Sporle  xx//,  by  yeer,  I  hadde  ther  off  butt  xx. 
marke  by  yere,  whyche  xx.  marke  by  yeer  and  the  x.  marke 
ovyr,  I  have  endangeryd,  as  ye  weell  knowe  off  that  bargayne, 
whyche,  iff  itt  be  nott  redemyd,  I  most  recompence  some  other 
maner  off  myne  to  one  off  my  bretheryn  for  the  seyde  x. 
marke,  ovyr  xx.  marke  that  longyth  to  me  ;  wherffor  I  kepe 
the  maner  off  Runham.  Than  have  I  fe  symple  londe  the 
maner  of  Wynterton  with  Bastwyk  and  Billys,  whyche  in  alle  is 
nott  XX.  marke  by  yeer,  whyche  is  nott  to  the  valywe  off  the 
maner  off  Sparham.  And  as  for  Castre,  it  weer  noo  conven- 
yent  londe  to  exchange  for  suche  a  thyng,  nor  it  weer  not 
polesy  for  me  to  sett  that  maner  in  suche  case  for  alle  maner 
of  happis.  I  nede  nott  to  make  thys  excuse  to  yowe,  but  that 
yowr  mynde  is  troblyd.  I  praye  yow  rejoyse  nott  yowr  sylffe 
to  moche  in  hope  to  opteyne  thynge  that  alle  yowr  freendys 
may  nott  ease  yow  off;  for  if  my  moodre  were  dysposyd  to 
gyve  me  and  any  woman  in  Ingelande  the  best  maner  that  she 
hathe,  to  have  it  to  me  and  my  wyffe,  and  to  the  heyres  off  our 
too  bodyes  begotyn,  I  wolde  nott  take  it  off  hyr,  by  God. 

Stablysshe  your  selffe  uppon  a  goode  grownde,  and  grace 
shall  folowe.  Yowr  mater  is  ferre  spoken  off,  and  blowyn 
wyde,  and  iff  it  preve  noo  better,  I  wolde  that  it  had  never  be 
spoken  off.  Also  that  mater  noysyth  me  that  I  am  so  on- 
kynde  that  I  lett  alle  togedre.  I  thynke  notte  a  mater  happy, 
nor  weell  handelyd,  nor  poletykly  dalte  with,  when  it  can  never 
be  fynysshyd  with  owte  an  inconvenyence  ;  and  to  any  suche 
bargayne  I  kepe  never  to  be  condescentyng,  ner  of  cowncell. 
Iffe  I  weer  att  the  begynnyng  of  suche  a  mater,  I  wolde  have 
hopyd  to  have  made  a  better  conclusyon,  if  they  mokke  yow 
notte.  Thys  mater  is  drevyn  thus  ferforthe  with  owte  my 
cowncell,  I  praye  yow  make  an  ende  with  owte  my  cowncell. 
Iffe  it  be  weell,  I  wolde  be  glad ;  iff  it  be  oderwyse,  it  is  pite. 
I  praye  yow  troble  me  no  moore-in  thys  mater.     .     .     } 

1  The  lower  part  of  this  letter  seems  to  have  been  cut  off,  and  how  much  is  lost 
does  not  appear. 

283 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

910 

JOHN  PASTON  AND  MARGERY  BREWS  1 

1477     1^  yff'EMORANDUM. — To  kepe  secret  fro  my  moder  that 
V/ I       the  bargayn  is  full  concludyd. 

Item,  to  let  hyr  have  fyrst  knowlage  that  in  the 
chapell,  wher  as  ye  wold  had  ben  no  book  nye  by  x.  myle,  that 
vvhyn  Mastyr  Brews  seyd  that  he  wold  shortly  have  eyther 
more  lond  in  joyntour  then  Sweynsthorp  and  x.  mark  ought 
of  Sparham,  or  ellys  that  some  frend  of  myne  shold  paye  the 
v'f-ii.,  so  that  it  shold  not  be  payed  of  the  maryage  money, 
that  then  I  sware  on  a  book  to  hym  that  I  wold  never  of  my 
mocyon  endanger  moder  nor  broder  ferther  then  I  had  done  ; 
for  I  thought  that  my  modyr  had  done  myche  for  me  to  geve 
me  the  maner  of  Sparham  in  syche  forme  as  she  had  done. 
But  Mastyr  Breus  wyll  not  agre,  with  ought  that  my  mastress 
hys  doughter  and  I  be  mad  swer  of  it  now  in  hand,  and  that 
we  may  take  the  hole  profytes,  what  so  ever  fortune. 

Item,  to  enforme  my  moder  that  if  so  be  that  we  may  be 
pute  in  possessyon  of  all  the  hole  maner  duryng  oure  two 
lyves,  and  the  lengest  of  leveing,  that  then  Mastyr  Brews  wyll 
geve  me  in  maryage  with  my  mastresse  hys  doughter  CCCC. 
markes,  payable  in  hand  1//.,  and  so  yerly  Hi.  tyll  the  some  of 
CCCC.  mark  bew  full  payed. 

Item,  that  wher  as  he  had  leyd  up  C/i.  for  the  maryage  of 
a  yonger  doughter  of  hys,  he  wylle  lend  me  the  same  C//.  and 
xx/z.  more,  to  pledge  ought  my  lond,  and  he  to  be  payed  ayen 
hys  C//.  and  xx//.  by  x/i.  by  yer. 

Item,  to  avyse  my  modyr  that  she  brek  not  for  the  yerly 
valew  of  Sparham  above  the  x.  mark  dwryng  hyr  lyve. 

1  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  This  paper,  which  is  in  John  Paston's  hand,  was 
evidently  written  about  the  same  time  as  the  letter  immediately  following,  in  which  it 
is  mentioned  that  Margaret  Paston  had  given  up  the  manor  of  Sparham  to  her  son. 
The  paper  is  endorsed  in  a  more  modern  hand  :  '  Notes  touching  the  mariage  betwene 
Jo.  Paston,  Ar',  and  Margery  Brews.'    * 


284 


EDWARD  IV 

911 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  1 

To  my  ryght  worshypfull  moodre,  Margret  Paston. 

PLEASE  it  yow  to  weete,  that  I  have  receyvyd  yowr  letter,  1477 
wherein  is  remembryd  the  gret  hurte,  that  by  liklihod  march  28 
myght  fFalle  to  my  brother,  iff  so  be  that  thys  matter 
betwyn  hym  and  Sir  Thomas  Brewses  doghtre  take  nott  effecte  ; 
wheroff  I  wolde  be  as  sory  as  hym  selffe  reasonably  ;  and  also 
the  welthy  and  convenyent  marriage  that  scholde  be  iff  it  take 
effecte  ;  wheroff  I  wolde  be  as  gladde  as  any  man  ;  and  ame 
better  content  nowe,  that  he  sholde  have  hyr,  than  any  other, 
that  evyr  he  was  hertoffoor  abowte  to  have  hadde,  consyderyd 
hyr  persone,  her  yowthe,  and  the  stok  that  she  is  comyn  offe, 
the  love  on  bothe  sydes,  the  tendre  ffavor  that  she  is  in  with 
hyr  ffader  and  mooder,  the  kyndenesse  off  hyr  ffadr  and  moodr 
to  hyr  in  departyng  with  hyr,  the  ffavor  also,  and  goode  con- 
ceyte  that  they  have  in  my  brother,  the  worshypfull  and 
vertuous  dysposicion  off  hyr  ffadr  and  moodr,  whyche  pro- 
nostikyth  that,  of  lyklihod,  the  mayde  sholde  be  vertuous  and 
goode  ;  all  which  concyderyd,  and  the  necessary  relyffe  that 
my  brother  most  have,  I  mervayle  the  lesse,  that  ye  have 
departyd,  and  gevyn  hym  the  maner  off  Sperham,  in  such 
fforme  as  I  have  knowleche  off  by  W.  Gornay,  Lomner,  and 
Skypwyth  ;  and  I  ame  ryght  gladde  to  se  in  yow  suche  kynde- 
nesse on  to  my  brother  as  ye  have  doon  to  hym  ;  and  wolde 
by  my  trowthe  lever  than  Qli.  that  it  weer  ffee  symple  londe,  as 
it  is  entaylyd,  whyche  by  liklyhood  scholde  prosper  with  hym 
and  hys  blode  the  better  in  tyme  to  come,  and  sholde  also 
never  cause  debate  in  owr  bloode  in  tyme  to  come,  whyche 
Godde  dyffende,  ffor  that  weer  onnaturell. 

Item,  another  inconvenyence  is,  wher  as  I  undrestande  that 
the  maner  is  gevyn  to  my  brother,  and  to  hys  wyff,  and  to  the 
issywe  bytwen  them  bygoten  ;   iff  the  case  weer  soo,  that  he 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  238.] 

285 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1477  and  she  hadde  yssywe  togedr  a  dowtr  or  moo,  and  hys  wyffe 
MARCH  28  dyed,  and  he  marled  afftr  another,  and  hadde  Issywe  a  sone, 
that  sone  sholde  have  noon  londe,  and  he  beyng  hys  ffadres 
heyr,  and  ffor  th'enconvenyence  that  I  have  knowe  let  in  ur^ 
in  case  lyke,  and  yit  enduryth  in  Kente,  by  tweyn  a  jentylman 
and  his  suster,  I  wolde  ye  toke  the  advyce  off  yowr  concell  in 
thys  poynt,  and  that  that  is  past  yow  by  wrightyng  or  by 
promise,  I  deme  verrely  in  yow,  that  ye  dyd  it  off  kyndenesse, 
and  in  eschywyng  off  a  moor  yll  that  myght  befall. 

Item,  wher  as  it  pleasyth  yow  that  I  sholde  ratefye,  grawnt, 
or  conferme  the  seyd  gyfte  on  to  my  brother,  it  is  so,  that 
with  myn  honeste  I  may  nott,  and  ffor  other  cawses.  The 
Pope  will  suffre  a  thyng  to  be  usyd,  but  he  will  nott  lycence 
nor  grant  it  to  be  usyd  nor  don,  and  soo  I,  My  brother 
John  knowyth  myn  entent  weel  i  now  heer  to  ffoor  in  this 
mater;  I  will  be  ffownde  to  hym  as  kynde  a  brother  as  I 
may  be. 

Item,  iff  it  be  soo  that  Sir  T.  Brews  and  hys  wyff  thynke 
that  I  wolde  troble  my  brother  and  hys  wyff  in  the  seid  maner, 
I  can  ffynde  no  meene  to  putte  them  in  sywerte  ther  off,  but 
iff  it  neede,  to  be  bownde  in  an  obligacion  with  a  condicion 
that  I  shalle  nott  trowble  ner  infete  them  therin. 

Item,  I  thynke  that  she  is  made  sywer  i  now  in  astate  in 
the  londe,  and  that  off  ryght  I  deme  they  shall  make  noone 
obstacles  at  my  wryghtyng,  ffor  I  hadde  never  none  astate  in 
the  londe,  ner  I  wolde  nott  that  I  had  hadde. 

No  mor  to  yow  at  thys  tyme,  but  AUmyghty  God  have 
yow  in  kepyng. 

Wretyn  at  Caleys,  the  xxviij.  daye  of  Marche,  anno  E. 
iiij.  xvij°. 

By  yowr  sone,  J.  Paston   K. 

1  In  ure,  i.e.  in  practice. 


286 


EDWARD  IV 

912 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 

"To  John  Pas  ton,  Esquyer. 

RYGHT  worshypfuU  and  hertely  belovyd  brother,  I  1477 
recomaunde  me  to  yow,  letyng  yow  weete,  that  as  april  14 
by  Pyrse  Moody,  when  he  was  heer,  I  hadde  no 
leyser  to  sende  answer  in  wryghtyng  to  yow,  and  to  my 
cosyne  Gurnaye,  off  yowr  letteris  ;  butt  ffor  a  conclusion  ye 
shalle  ffynde  me  to  yow  as  kynde  as  I  maye  be,  my  conciense 
and  worshyp  savyd,  whiche,  when  I  speke  with  yow  and  them, 
ye  bothe  shall  weell  undrestande.  And  I  praye  God  sende 
yow  as  goode  speede  in  that  mater  as  I  wolde  ye  hadde,  and 
as  I  hope  ye  shall  have  er  thys  letter  come  to  yow  ;  and  I 
praye  God  sende  yow  yssywe  betwyne  yow,  that  maye  be 
as  honorable  as  ever  was  any  off  your  ancestris  and  theris, 
wheroff  I  wolde  be  as  gladde  in  maner  as  off  myn  owne. 
Wherffor  I  praye  yow  sende  me  worde  how  ye  doo,  and  iff 
Godde  ffortune  me  to  doo  weell,  and  be  off  any  power,  I  woll 
be  to  Sir  Thomas  Brewse,  and  my  lady  hys  wyffe,  a  verry 
sone  in  lawe  ffor  yowr  sake,  and  take  them  as  ye  doo,  and 
doo  ffor  them  as  iff  I  weer  in  case  like  with  them  as  ye  bee. 
No  moor,  but  Jesus  have  yow  in  kepyng. 

Wretyn  at  Caleys,  the  xiiij.  daye  off  Aprill,  anno  E.  iiij. 
xvij°. 

As  ffor  tydyngs  her,  the  Frenshe  Kynge  hathe  gothen 
many  off  the  towns  off  the  Duk  of  Burgoyne,  as  Seynt 
Quyntyns,  Abevyle,  Motrell  ;  and  now  off  late  he  hathe 
goten  Betoyne  and  Hedynge  with  the  castell  ther,  whyche 
is  one  off  the  ryallest  castells  off  the  worlde ;  and  on  Sonday 
at  tYj^'^  the  Ameralle  off  Fraunce  leyde  seege  at  Boloyne ;  and 
thys  daye  it  is  seyde,  that  the  Frenshe  Kynge  shalle  come 
thyddr  ;  and  thys  nyght  it  is  seyde,  that  ther  was  a  vysion 
seyne  abowte  the  walls  of  Boloyne,  as  it  hadde  ben  a  woman 

^  [From  Fenn,  ii.  244.] 

287 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1477    with  a  mervylowse  lyght  ;  men  deme  that  Owr  Lady  ther  will 
APRIL  14  shewe  hyrselff  a  lover  to  that  towne.     God  fForfende  that  it 
weer  Frenshe,  it  weer  worthe  xl.m'7/.  [^40,000]  that  it  wer 
Englyshe.  J.  Paston,  K. 


MARGARET  PASTON  TO  DAME  ELIZABETH  BREWS  1 

To  the  ryght  wurchypfull  and  my  verry  good  \lady  and  cosyn^ 
Dame  Elyzabeth'Y'  Br-ews. 

JUNE  II  I  ^  YGHT  wurchepful  and  my  cheff  lady  and  cosyn,  as 
rv^  hertly  as  I  can,  I  recomaunde  me  to  yow.  Madam, 
lyeketh  yow  to  undyrstand  that  the  cheff  cause  of  my 
wrytyng  to  yow  at  thys  season  ys  thys  :  I  wot  well  yt  ys  not 
unremembred  with  yow  the  large  comunycacyon  that  dyvers 
tymes  hathe  ben  had  towchyng  the  maryage  of  my  cosyn 
Margery,  yowyr  dowghter,  and  my  son  John  ;  of  whyche  I 
have  ben  as  glad,  and  now  late  wardes  as  sory,  as  evyr  I  was 
for  eny  maryage  in  myn  lyve.  And  wher  or  in  whom  the 
defawte  of  the  breche  ys,  I  can  have  no  perfyte  knowlage  ; 
but,  madam,  yf  yt  be  in  me  or  eny  of  myn,  I  prey  yow 
assygne  a  day  when  my  cosyn  yowyr  husbond  and  ye  thynk  to 
be  at  Norwych  to  wardes  Salle,  and  I  wyll  com  theder  to  yow  ; 
and  I  thynk  or  ye  and  I  departe,  that  the  defawte  schall  be 
knowe  where  yt  ys,  and  also  that,  with  yowyr  advyse  and  helpe 
and  myn  to  gedyrs,  we  schall  take  some  wey  that  yt  schal  not 
breke  ;  for  yf  yt  dyd,  yt  wer  non  honoure  to  neyther  partyes, 
and  in  cheff  to  them  in  whom  the  defawte  ys,  consyderyng 
that  it  ys  so  ferre  spokun. 

And,  madam,  I  prey  yow  that  I  may  have  perfyte  know- 
lage be  my  son  Yelverton,^  berar  here  of,  when  thys  metyng 
schall  be,  y{  ye  thynk  it  expedyent,  and  the  soner  the  better, 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]     This  is  another  letter  relative  to  the  negotiations 
for  the  marriage  of  John  Paston  and  Margery  Brews,  which  took  place  in  1477. 

2  The  words  bracketed  are  indistinct,  but  we  follow  Fenn's  reading. 

3  William  Yelverton,  grandson  of  Judge  Yelverton,  now  married  to  Anne  Paston, 
one  of  Margaret's  daughters. 

288 


EDWARD  IV 

in  eschewyng  of  worsse ;  for,  madam,  I  know  well,  yf  yt  be     1477 
not  concludyd  in  ryght  schort  tyme,  that  as  for  my  son  he  June  ii 
entendyth  to  doo  ryght  well  by  my  cosyn  Margery,  and  not 
so  well  by  hym  sylf,  and  that  schuld  be  to  me,  nor  I  trust  to 
yow  no  gret  plesur,  yf  yt  so  fortunyd,  as  God  defFend,  Whom 
I  beseche  to  send  yow  your  levest  desyers. 

Madam,  I  besech  yow  that  I  may  be  recomawndyd  by  this 
bylle  to  my  cosyn  yowr  husbond,  and  to  my  cosyn  Margery, 
to  whom  I  supposyd  to  have  gevyn  an  othyr  name  or  thys 
tyme. 

Wretyn  at  Mawteby,  on  Seynt  Baritaby  is  Day. 

By  your,         Margaret  Paston. 


914 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 
T'o  John  Paston^  Esquyer. 

1RECOMAND  me  to  yow,  letyng  yow  weete  that  I  have  june  23 
spoken  to  Herry  Colett,^  and  entretyd  hym  in  my  best 
wyse  ffor  yow,  soo  that  at  the  last  he  is  agreyd  to  a 
resonable  respyght  ffor  the  xv//.  that  ye  sholde  have  payd  hym 
at  Mydsomer,  as  he  seyth,  and  is  gladde  to  do  yow  ease  or 
plesyr  in  all  that  he  maye ;  and  I  tolde  hym  that  ye  wolde,  as 
I  supposyd,  be  heer  at  London,  herr  nott  long  to,  and  than  he 
lokyth  afftr  that  ye  sholde  come  see  hym,  ffor  he  is  sheryff, 
and  hathe  a  goodely  hows. 

Item,  my  Lady  off  Oxenfforth^  lokyth  afftr  yow  and 
Arblaster  bothe. 

My  Lord  off  Oxenfford  *  is  nott  comen  in  to  Inglonde 
that  I  can  perceyve,  and  so  the  goode  lady  hathe  nede  off 
helpe  and  cowncell  howe  that  she  shall  doo. 

^  [From  Fenn,  ii.  248.] 

2  Sir  Henry  Colet  was  Lord  Mayor  of  London  in  i486. — F. 

3  Margaret,  daughter  of  Richard  Neville,  Earl  of  Salisbury  ;  she  was,  during  the 
imprisonment  of  her  lord,  in  great  distress. — F. 

*  John  de  Vere,  Earl  of  Oxford,  was  at  this  time  a  prisoner  in  the  Castle  of 
Hammes,  in  Picardy ;  what  expectation  there  was  of  his  coming  into  England  at  this 
time  I  know  not. — F. 

VOL.  V.  —  T  289 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1477  No  moor  at  thys  tyme,  butt  God  have  yow  in  kepyng. 

JUNE  23  Wretyn  att  London  on   Seynt  Awdryes  Daye,  anno   E. 

nij"  xvij°. 

Tydyngs  butt  that  yisterdaye  my  Lady  Marqueys  off 
Dorset/  whych  is  my  Lady  Hastyngs  dowtr,  hadyd  chylde 
a  sone. 

Item,  my  Lord  Chamberleyn  is  comyn  hyddr  ffro  Caleys, 
and  redyn  with  the  Kynge  to  Wyndeshor,  and  the  Kyng  will 
be  here  ageyn  on  Mondaye.  J.  P.,  K. 


JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  2 

JUNE  29  "T^  YGHT  worchepfull  and  my  most  good  and  kynd  moder. 
1^  Moder,  in  as  humbyll  wyse  as  I  can  or  may,  I  re- 
comand  me  to  yow,  and  beseche  yow  of  your  dayly 
biyssyng.  Moder,  please  it  yow  to  undyrstond  that  tyll  thys 
day  Dame  Elyzabeth  Brews  hathe  ben  so  syke  that  she  myght 
nevyr,  sythe  she  cam  to  Salle,  have  leyser  to  comon  of  my 
mater  with  Master  Brews  tyll  thys  day  ;  and  thys  day  with 
gret  peyn,  I  thynk  the  rather  because  Heydon  ^  was  ther,  the 
mater  was  comond,  but  other  answer  than  she  hathe  sent  yow 
in  hyr  lettre  closed  her  in  can  she  not  have  of  hyr  husbond. 
Wherfor,  modyr,  if  it  please  yow,  myn  advyse  is  to  send  hyr 
answer  ayen  in  thys  forme  folowing,  of  some  other  manys 
hand. 

[^Margarel  Paston  to  Dame  Elyzabeth  Brews.^ 

'  Ryght  worchepfull  and  my  verry  good  lady  and  cosyn, 

1  Cecily,  wife  of  Thomas  Grey,  Marquis  of  Dorset,  was  great  grand-daughter 
and  heir  of  William  Bonvile,  Lord  Bonvile,  who  was  beheaded  by  order  of  Margaret 
of  Anjou,  after  the  second  battle  of  St.  Albans  in  1461. 

2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter,  with  the  two  subjoined,  are  drafts 
written  on  the  same  paper  in  John  Paston's  hand.  They  must  belong  to  the  year 
1477,  being  on  the  same  subject,  already  so  often  referred  to,  of  the  negotiations  for 
John  Paston's  marriage.  Fenn  had  added  addresses  to  all  these  letters,  and  a  signature 
to  the  first,  which  are  not  in  the  original  MS. 

3  John  Heydon  of  Baconsthorpe,  who  died  on  the  27th  September  1479. — 
Inquisition  p.m.,  19  Edw.  iv..  No.  72. 

290 


EDWARD  IV 

as  hertly  as  I  can,  I  recomand  me  to  yow.  And,  madam,  I  1477 
am  ryght  sory,  if  it  myght  be  otherwyse,  of  the  dysease,  as  I  J^^^  ^9 
undyrstand  by  the  berer  herof,  that  my  cosyn  your  husbond 
and  ye  also  have  had  a  season,  whyche  I  prey  God  soone  to 
redresse  to  your  bothe  easeis.  And,  madam,  I  thank  yow 
hertly  that  ye  have  remembred  the  mater  to  my  cosyn  your 
husbond,  that  I  spak  with  you  of  at  syche  tyme  as  I  was  last 
with  you  at  Norwyche,  to  my  gret  comfort.  And  I  wyse, 
madam,  I  am  ryght  sory  that  John  Fasten  is  no  more  for- 
tunate then  he  is  in  that  mater ;  for,  as  I  undyrstand  by  your 
lettyr,  my  cosyn  your  husbond  wyll  geve  but  an  C//.,  whyche 
is  no  money  lyek  for  syche  a  joyntore  as  is  desyred  of  my  son, 
thow  hys  possybylyte  wer  ryght  easy.  But,  madam,  when  I 
mad  that  large  grant  in  the  maner  of  Sperham  that  I  have 
mad  to  hym  and  my  cosyn  your  doughter,  he  told  me  of  an 
other  some  that  he  shold  have  with  hyr  then  of  an  C/i.  He 
hathe  befor  thys  be  wont  to  tell  me  none  untrowthe ;  and  what 
I  shall  deme  in  thys  mater,  I  can  not  sey,  for  me  thynkyth  if 
more  then  an  C/i.  wer  promysyd  on  to  hym  by  my  cosyn  your 
husbond  and  yow,  that  ye  wold  not  lett  to  geve  it  hym,  with 
ought  so  wer  that  I  or  he  abryggyd  eny  thyng  of  our  promess, 
whyche  I  wot  well  neyther  I  or  he  intend  to  do,  if  I  mav 
undyrstand  that  hys  seying  to  me  was  trowthe,  and  that  it  may 
be  performyd  ;  but  wyst  I  that  he  told  me  otherwyse  then  my 
cosyn  yowr  husbond  and  ye  promysed  hym,  to  deseyve  me  of 
Sparham,  by  my  trowthe,  thow  he  have  it,  he  shall  lese  as 
myche  for  it,  iff  I  leve,  and  that  shall  he  well  undyrstand  the 
next  tyme  I  se  hym. 

'  And,  madam,  I  pray  God  send  us  good  of  thys  mater,  for 
as  for  hys  broder  Sir  John  also,  I  sent  ones  to  hym  for  it  to 
have  mad  good  the  same  graunt  that  I  grauntyd  yow  with  hys 
assent,  to  them  and  to  ther  issu  of  ther  ij.  bodyes  lawfully 
comyng,  and  he  dyd  not  ther  in  as  I  desyred  hym.  And  ther 
for  I  prey  yow  pardon  me  for  sendyng  on  to  hym  eny  more  ; 
for,  madam,  he  is  my  sone,  and  I  can  not  fynd  in  my  hert  to 
becom  a  dayly  petycyoner  of  hys,  sythe  he  hathe  denyed  me 
onys  myn  axing.  Peraventure  he  had  ben  better  to  have 
performyd  my  desyer ;   and  what  hys  answer  was  on  to  me, 

291 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1477  John  Paston  can  tell  yow  as  well  as  I.  But,  madam,  ye  ar  a 
JUNE  29  moder  as  well  as  I,  wher  I  prey  tak  it  non  other  wyse  hot 
well,  that  1  may  not  do  by  John  Paston,  as  ye  wyll  have  me 
to  do  ;  for,  madam,  thow  I  wold  he  dyd  well,  I  have  to  purvey 
for  more  of  my  chylder  then  hym,  of  whyche  some  be  of  that 
age,  that  they  can  tell  me  well  inow  that  I  dele  not  evenly 
with  theym  to  geve  John  Paston  so  large,  and  theym  so  lytyll ; 
and,  madam,  for  syche  grwgys  and  other  causys,  I  am  ryght 
sory  that  the  graunte  is  knowyn  that  I  have  mad,  with  ought 
it  myght  take  eifect.  And  therfor,  madam,  fro  hensforthe  I 
remyght  all  thyng  to  yowr  dyscressyon,  besechyng  yow,  the 
rather  for  my  sake,  to  be  my  son  Johnis  good  lady  ;  and  I 
prey  God  preserve  yow  to  Hys  plesure,  send  yow  hastyly 
yowr  hele  ayen,  and  my  cosyn  yowr  husbond  also,  to  whom  I 
prey  yow  that  I  may  hertly  be  recomandyd,  and  to  my  cosyns 
Margery  and  Margaret  Byllyngforthe. 

'  Wretyn  at  Mawtby,  on  Seynt  Petrys  Day. 

*  Yowr,  Margaret  Paston.' 

'  An  other  lettyr  to  me  that  I  may  shewe. 

'  I  gret  yow  well,  and  send  you  Godes  blessyng  and  myn, 
letyng  yow  wet  that  I  undyrstand  well  by  my  cosyn.  Dame 
Elyzabeth  Brewsys  lettyr,  whyche  I  sende  yow  her  with, 
wherby  ye  may  undyrstand  the  same,  that  they  intend  not  to 
performe  thos  proferys  that  ye  told  me  they  promysyd  yow, 
trustyng  that  ye  told  me  none  other  wyse  then  was  promysed 
yow.  Wherfor  I  charge  yow  on  my  blyssyng  that  ye  be  well 
ware  how  ye  bestow  your  mynd  with  ought  ye  have  a  substance 
wher  upon  to  leve  ;  for  I  wold  be  sory  to  wet  yow  myscary  ; 
for  if  ye  do,  in  your  defawt  looke  never  aftyr  helpe  of  me. 
And  also  I  wold  be  as  sory  for  hyr  as  for  eny  gentywoman 
leveing,  in  good  feythe  ;  wherfor  I  warne  yow,  be  ware  in  eny 
wyse ;  and  look  ye  be  at  Mawtby  with  me  as  hastyly  as  ye 
can,  and  then  I  shall  tell  yow  more.     And  God  kepe  yow. 

'  Wretyn  at  Mawtby,  on  Seynt  Petrys  Day. 

'  Your  modyr,  M.   P.' 

292 


EDWARD  IV 

916 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  1 

'To  the  ryght  worshypfull  Mestresse  Margret  Paston. 

PLEASE  it  yow  to  weete  that  I  have  receyvyd  yowr  letter,  1477 
wretyn  the  Tywesdaye  nexte  afFtre  Seynt  James  Daye,  aug.  7 
wherin  ye  desyre  me  to  remembre  Kokett,  and  also  to 
be  helpyng  to  my  brother  Johnes  mariage.  As  for  Kokett,  as 
God  helpe  me,  I  knowe  nott  yitt  the  meanes  possible  that  I 
myght  paye  hym  by  thatt  daye,  fFor  thoos  materis  that  be  off 
grettest  wyght  and  charge,  and  that  stonde  nerrest  my  weell, 
that  is  to  seye,  the  sywerte  off  the  maner  off  Castre,  and  the 
mater  betwen  Anne  Hault  and  me  shall,  with  Goddes  grace, 
thys  terme  be  at  a  perffyght  ende,  whyche  will  charge  me 
fferther  than  I  have  mony  as  yitt,  or  lyke  to  have  byffor  that 
tyme,  off  myne  owne,  and,  as  God  helpe  me,  I  wote  nott  where 
to  borow. 

Item,  1  most  paye  with  in  thys  iij.  yeer  iiij*^-  [400]  marke 
to  Towneshende,  or  ellis  fforffett  the  maner  off  Sporle,  and 
thus  my  charges  be  gretter  than  I  maye  a  weye  with,  concidryd 
suche  helpe  as  I  have  ;  and  iff  it  ffortunyd  that  I  fforffetyd  the 
maner  off  Sporle,  ye  weer  never  lyke  to  se  me  myry  afftre,  so 
God  helpe  me.  Ye  gave  me  ones  xx/z.  to  it  wardes,  and  ye 
promyttyd  as  moche,  whyche  I  receyvyd,  and  synnys  off  my 
mony  off  seide  maner  growyng  that  come  to  yowr  handys  was 
receyvyd  by  yow  ageyn  the  seyd  xl//.,  whyche,  when  Kokett 
scholde  be  payed,  was  nott  yowr  ease  to  departe  wyth.  Never- 
thelesse  ye  may  yitt,  when  yow  lyketh,  perfforme  yowr  sayde 
gyffte  and  promyse,  and  thys  somme  owyng  to  Kokett  is  nott 
so  moche  ;  neverthelesse  I  suppose  that  ye  be  nott  so  weell 
purveyed.  Wherffor,  iff  it  please  yow  at  yowr  ease  her  afftre 
to  performe  yowr  seyde  gyffte  and  promyse,  so  that  I  may 
have  it  with  in  a  yer  or  ij.  or  yitt  iij.,  I  sholde  per  case  gete 
yowr  obligacion  to  yow  ageyn  ffrom  Kokett,  and  he  pleasyd. 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1477    WherfFor  I  beseche  vow  that  I  maye  have  an  assyngnement  of 

AUG.  7    suche  dettes  as  been  owyng  yow,  payeable  at  leyser  off  suche 

mony  as  is  owyng  ffor  the  woode  at  Basyngham  or  ellys  wher ; 

ffor,  so  God  helpe  me,  I  sholde  ellys  wylfuUy  ondoo  myselffe, 

wherin  I  beseche  yow  to  sende  me  an  answer  in  hast. 

Item,  as  towchyng  the  mariage  off  my  brother  John,  I  have 
sente  hym  myn  advyce,  and  tolde  hym  wherto  he  shall  truste, 
and  I  have  grauntyd  hym  as  moche  as  I  maye.  I  wolde  that  I 
weer  at  on  communycacion  atwyen  them  for  hys  sake,  whyche 
I  sholde  if  I  myght.  As  for  my  comyng  home,  I  ame  nott 
yitt  sertayn  therof ;  I  shalle  hast  me  as  faste  as  I  canne,  with 
the  grace  of  God,  Who  have  yow  in  Hys  kepyng. 

I  beseche  yow  to  remembre  the  premyssis,  and  to  helpe 
me,  and  with  Goddes  grace,  thes  ij.  materis  above  wretyn, 
bothe  of  Castre  and  Mestresse  Anne  Hault,  shall  be  endyd  to 
my  profyth  and  rest,  and  moor  ovyr,  er  awghte  longe  to,  with 
Goddes  grace,  the  maner  of  Sporle  to  be  owte  of  danger  ; 
promyttyng  yow  that  I  shall  doo  in  Kokettes  mater  as  moche 
as  is  possible  for  me  to  doo  to  yower  plesyr.  It  shall  never 
neede  to  prykk  nor  threte  a  free  horse.  I  shall  do  whatt 
I  can. 

Wretyn  the  Thorysdaye  next  byffore  Seynt  Lawrence,  anno 
E.  iiij''  xvij. 

By  yowre  sone, 

John  Paston,  K. 


917 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

AUG.  11    '\7'T  ys  soo  that   I    undyrstonde   be   yowyr  letter  wretyn 

I         the  Thyrsday  nexte  be  fore  Seynt  Lauerons,  that  ze 

wulde  have  knowlage  how  that  I  wuld  be  demenyd  in 

Cokettes  mater ;  qweche  I  send  you  here   undyr  wretyn.     I 

1  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  is  not  addressed,  the  original  being  a 
corrected  draft,  but  there  is  no  doubt  it  was  written  to  Sir  John  Paston  in  reply  to  the 
last.  It  is  endorsed  in  a  more  modern  hand  :  '  Copia  literae  Jo.  Paston,  mil.,  a  matre 
sua.' 

294 


EDWARD  IV 

putte  yow  in  certeyn  that  I  wuU  nevyr  pay  him  peny  of  that  1477 
duty  that  ys  owyng  to  hym,  thow  he  sue  me  for  yt,  not  of  aug.  i  i 
myn  owyn  pursse ;  for  I  wul  nat  be  compellyd  to  pay  yowyr 
dettes  azens  my  well,  and  thow  I  wuld,  I  may  nat.  Where 
fore  I  a  wyse  yow  to  see  me  savyd  harmelesse  azens  hym  for 
yowyr  owyn  a  wauntage  in  tyme  cumyng,  for  yf  I  pay  yt,  at 
longe  wey  ze  xall  here  the  losse. 

And  where  as  ze  wryte  to  me  that  I  gave  yow  xx//.,  and 
promysyd  odyr  xx//.,  that  ys  nat  soo,  for  I  vvutte  wele  yf  I  had 
soo  doon,  ze  wuld  nat  assynyd  me  be  yowyr  letterys  of  yowyr 
owyn  hande  wrytyng,  the  whech  1  have  to  schew,  that  I  schuld 
resseyve  a  zen  the  same  summe  of  Wylliam  Pecok,  and  of 
yowyr  fermores,  and  byars  of  yowyr  wood  of  Sporle  ;  and  take 
this  for  a  full  conclusyon  in  thys  mater,  for  yt  xall  be  noon 
othyr  v/yse  for  me  than  I  wryte  here  to  yow. 

I  mervel  meche  that  ze  have  delte  azen  soo  symply  wyth 
Sporle,  consyderyng  that  ze  and  yowyr  frendys  had  so  meche 
to  doo  for  to  geetyt  yow  azen  onys  ;  and  ye  havyng  noo 
gretter  materes  of  charge  than  ze  have  had  sythyn  yt  was  laste 
pleggyt  owte,  yt  causyth  me  to  be  in  gret  dov/te  of  yow  what 
yowyr  dysposycion  wul  be  here  aftyr  for  swheche  lyfelood  as 
I  have  be  dysposyd  before  this  tyme  to  leve  yow  after  my 
decesse.  For  I  thynke  veryly  that  ye  wulde  be  dysposyd  here 
aftyr  to  selle  or  sette  to  morgage  the  lond  that  ye  xulde  have 
after  me  yowyr  modyr  as  gladdly  and  rathyr  than  that  lyfe 
lood  that  ye  have  after  yowyr  fadyr.  Yt  grevyth  me  to 
thynke  upon  yowyr  gydeyng  after  the  greet  good  that  ze  have 
had  in  yowyr  rewle  sythyn  yowyr  fadyr  deyyd,  whom  God 
assoyle,  and  soo  symply  spendyt  as  yt  hath  ben.  God  geve 
yow  grace  to  be  of  sadde  and  good  dysposyn  here  after  to 
Hys  plesans,  and  comforte  to  me,  and  to  all  yowyr  frendys, 
and  to  yowyr  wurchyp  and  profyte  here  after. 

And  as  for  yowyr  brothyr  WylHam,  I  wuld  ye  xulde 
purvey  for  hys  fyndyng,  for  as  I  told  yow  the  laste  tyme  that 
ye  ware  at  home,  I  wuld  no  lenger  fynde  hym  at  my  cost  and 
charge  ;  hys  boord  and  hys  scole  hyer  ys  owyng  sythyn  Seynt 
Thomas  Day  afore  Cristmesse,  and  he  hathe  greet  nede  of 
gownys  and  odyr  gere  that  whare  necessary  for  hym  to  have 

295 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1477    if^  haste.      I  wulde  ze  xulde  remembyrt  and  purvey  them,  for 

AUG.  II   as  for  me,  I  wul  nat.     I  thynke  ze  sette  butte  lytyl  be  myn 

blessyng,  and  yf  ye  dede,  ye  wulde  a  desyyrd  yt  in  yowyr 

wrytyng  to  me.     God  make  yow  a  good  man  to  Hys  plesans. 

Wretyn  at  Mawteby,   the  day  after  Seynt  Lauerons,  the 

yere  and  the  renge  of  Kyng  E.  the  ilij'*  the  xvij.  zere. 

Be  yowyr  Modyr. 


918 

EDMUND  BEDYNGFELD  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

Un  to  the  ryght  wurschepful  Sir  John  Paston,  Knyght. 


AUG.  17 


MASTER  PASTON,  after  all  dew  recomandacion,  and 
herty  dissire  to  here  of  your  good  hele,  plese  yt  you 
to  wete  I  have  spoken  with  Sir  John  of  Medilton  as 
wel  as  I  cowde,  and  yt  had  ben  for  myself,  for  his  hoby  that 
ye  dissired,  and  tolde  hym  he  myght  wel  forbere  hym  no  we  in 
as  moche  as  Mastres  Jane  was  ded,  and  that  yt  is  a  great  cost 
for  hym  to  kepe  moo  hors  than  he  nedyth  ;  and  he  answered 
me,  that  he  wold  selle  hym  with  good  will,  but  ther  shuld  no 
man  bie  hym  under  x/z.  Flemesch  ;  ^  and  I  offered  hym  in 
your  name,  x.  marke,  for  he  wold  not  here  of  none  other 
ambelyng  horse,  that  ye  myght  geve  hym  therfore.  And  also 
my  lord  dissired  to  have  bowte  hym  for  the  Lord  Schauntrell 
that  is  chefF  capteyn  of  Seynt  Omers  ;  and  he  wold  no  lesse 
lete  my  lord  have  hym  than  x//.  and  so  my  lord  bowte  another, 
and  gave  hym  the  seide  lord,  for  he  thoughte  this  to  dere  ; 
neverthelesse  he  wol  not  selle  hym  to  no  man  under  that 
mony,  that  he  sette  hym  on,  and  so  ye  may  bye  your  plesur  in 
hym  and  ye  lest  ;  for  otherwyse  he  wol  not  doo  for  you,  as  I 
conseve. 

*  [From  Fenn,  ii.  250.]  The  events  referred  to  in  this  letter  prove  that  it  was 
written  in  the  year  1477. 

2  Between  ^5  and  ^^6  English,  and  equal  in  value  to  upwards  of  ^20  at  this 
present  time,  apparently  a  great  price  for  a  hobby. — F. 

296 


EDWARD  IV 

And  as  for  tydyngs  in  theyse  partyes,  the  Frenche  Keng  1477 
leyzth  at  sege  at  Seynt  Omers,  on  the  one  side  of  the  town  a  ^ug.  17 
myle  of,  but  he  hath  no  gret  ordenaunce  ther  ;  and  they  of  the 
town  skyrmysh  with  them  every  day,  and  kepe  a  passage  halff  a 
myle  with  oute  the  town  ;  and  the  French  Keng  hath  brenned 
all  the  townys,  and  fayre  abbeys,  that  were  that  way  aboute 
Seynt  Omers,  and  also  the  cornes  weche  ar  there.  And  also, 
as  yt  ys  seide  for  serteyn,  the  French  Keng  hath  brenned 
Cassell,  that  ys  myn  hoold  Lady  of  Burgeynys^  joynttor,  and 
all  the  countre  there  aboute,  whereby  she  hath  lost  a  gret  part 
of  her  lyvelod  ;  and  that  is  a  sherewed  tokyn  that  he  menyth 
wel  to  the  Keng,  howur  sufFereygn  Lord,  when  he  intendyth  to 
distroye  her, 

Morover  Sir  Phylep  de  Crevekere  hath  takyn  them  that 
were  in  Fynys  with  inne  this  iiij.  dayes  to  the  noumbre  of  xiiij. 
personys,  and  the  remnaunt  where  fled,  and  he  had  them  to 
the  French  Keng,  and  he  hath  brentte  all  the  place,  and  pulled 
down  the  towre,  and  a  part  of  the  wall,  and  disstroyed  yt. 

And  as  yt  is  seid,  yf  the  French  Keng  can  not  gete  Seynt 
Omers,  that  he  intendyth  to  brenge  his  armye  thorwe  theyse 
marchys  into  Flaundres  ;  wherefore  my  lord  hath  do  brokyn 
all  the  passages  excep  Newham  bryge,  weche  is  wached,  and 
the  turne  pyke  shette  every  nyght.  And  the  seide  French 
Keng  with  inne  these  iij.  dayes  ray  led  gretely  of  my  lord  to 
Tygyr  Pursevaunt,  opynly  byfore  ij.  hundred  of  his  folks  ; 
wherefore  yt  ys  thaught  here  that  he  wold  feynde  a  quarell  to 
sett  upon  thys  town,  yf  he  myght  gete  avantage.  And  as  I 
understonde,  the  Emperorys  sone^  ys  maryed  at  Gaunte  as 
this  day  ;  and  ther  cam  with  hym  but  iiij.  hundred  horse,  and 
I  can  here  of  no  moo  that  be  comyng  in  serteyn;  and  in  mony  he 
brengyth  with  hym  an  hundred  thowsand  dokets,  wheche  is  but 
a  smalle  thyng  in  regard  for  that  he  hath  to  doo.  Wherefore, 
I  fere  me  sore,  that  Flaundres  will  be  lost ;  and  yf  Seynt 
Omers  be  whonnyn,  all  is  gon,  in  my  conceyt.  Never  the 
lesse  they  say  there  shuld  come  gret  powere  after  the  Em- 

*  Margaret,  sister  to  Edward  iv.,  widow  of  Charles  the  Bold,  Duke  of  Burgundy. 
2  Maximilian,  son  of  the  Emperor  Frederick,  married   Mary,  daughter  and  heir  of 
Charles  the  Bold,  Duke  of  Burgundy. — F. 

297 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1477    perorys  son  ;  but  I  be  leve  yt  not,  by  cause  they  have  ben  so 
AUG.  1 7  long  of  comyng. 

And  I  pray  you  to  recomaunde  me  unto  Sir  Tyrry  Robsert, 
and  that  yt  plese  you  to  lete  hym  knowe  of  your  tydyngs,  and 
Hour  Lord  have  you  in  His  kepyng. 

At  Calais,  the  Sunday  next  after  Hour  Lady  the  Assump- 
sion. 

Your,  E.  Bedyngfeld.^ 


919 

AGNES  AND  WILLIAM  PASTON  2 

AUG.  22   T^he  names  of  the  maners  of  Agnes  Pas  tons  and  William  Fasten^  in 
Norfolk^  how  thai  shuld  he  taken  hede  to  this  harvest^  anno 
xvif. 
And  a  copy  of  the  same  send  to  Richard  Lynstede^  the  xxij.  day  of 
August^  anno  xvij",  per  Bacheler  Water. 


Paston  maner,      .     .     .     .     Se  that  the  fermour  in  his  corne 

on  my  moders  fe.  Seale  dores 
and  distrayne,  and  put  in  a 
newe  fermour. 

Wodemyl, Distrayne. 

Latymers,         Gadir  the  rente. 

Sewardbysj Gadir  the  rente. 

Trunche, Distrayne  on  the  grounde  after 

it  is  felHd,  while  it  lieth  on  my 
moders  fe. 

Spriggeis, Gader  the  rente. 

Knapton  fe, 

Crowmer, Gadir  the  rente. 

Owstoonde, Distrayne. 

'  Edmund  Bedyngfeld  married  Margaret,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Scot,  Comptroller 
of  Calais,  and  was  created  a  Knight  of  the  Bath  at  the  Coronation  of  Richard  iii.  He 
was  highly  in  favour  with  Henry  vii.,  who  paid  him  a  royal  visit  at  Oxburgh,  in 
Norfolk,  which  fine  seat  he  built.     He  died  in  1+96. — F. 

2  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  The  heading  of  this  document  is  taken  from  an 
endorsement  on  the  original  ms. 

298 


EDWARD  IV 


Rowton, 
Riston,  . 


Oxned  maner. 


Oxned  mylle. 


Caster  Cleres, 
Holkhams  tenement, 
The  mersh  in  Caster, 
Caster  Bardolf,     . 
Caster  Clere  rentes, 
Holham  rentes,    . 
Ormysby  my  fe,  . 
Somerton,  . 


Thirn,    .     .     .     , 
Sowth  Walsham, . 
Halvyrzates,    . 
Todenham, 
Cokfeldes,  . 
Apawys, 


Marlyngfor  maner,    . 
Marlyngford  mylle,  . 
Merlyngforde  tenauntes. 
Melton 


Bonwell, 

Carleton, 

Thuxstons, 

Lynghall  nuper  Dokkynges, 


Distrayne,  and  arest  the  fermour. 

Lete  Lynstedes  brother  gader  the 
rente. 

Se  the  fermour  in  his  croppe,  and 
after  seale  doris  and  distrayne, 
and  lete  hym  not  renne  in  dette 
as  other  fermours  did. 

Se  the  fermour  in  his  croppe,  and 
after  seall  doris  and  distrayne, 
and  lete  hym  not  renne  in  dette 
as  other  fermours  did. 

Aske  the  ferme. 

Aske  the  ferme. 

Aske  the  ferme. 

Aske  the  ferme  a  rent. 

Distrayne  tenauntes. 


Se  that  he  in  his  corn,  and  seall 
dores  and  distrayne,  til  he 
fynde  suerty. 

Aske  the  ferme. 


Aske  the  rente,  and  areste  Smyth. 

Aske  the  rente. 

Se  he  in  his  corn,  and  seall  dores 

and  distrayne. 
Sele  doris  and  distrayne. 
Seale  doris  and  distrayne. 
Distrayne. 
Se   the   croppe  inned,  and   seale 

doris  and  distrayne. 
Aske  rente. 
Aske  rente. 
Aske  rente. 
Aske    rente    fro   Mich.  xvj.  till 

xvij°  and  distrayne. 

299 


1477 

AUG.    22 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


1477 

AUG.    22 


Bulmans  nuper  Dokkynges, 


Yeaxham  nuper  Dokkynges, 


Styberd  nuper  Dokkynges, 


Thymbilthorp   nuper  Dok- 
kynges. 


Aske  rente  fro  Mich,  xvj°  til 
xvij°,  and  exorte  Martyn  to 
kepe  the  ferme  still,  and  if  he 
woll  not,  praye  hym  to  gete  a 
noder. 

Aske  rente  fro  Mich.  xyj°  till 
xvij°,  and  gete  a  newe  fermour, 
and  increse  the  rente,  and 
make  a  newe  terrar  and  rentall. 

Aske  rent  fro  Mich.  xv°  till 
Mich.  xvij°,  and  distrayne,  and 
allowe  no  dewty  of  Dokkynges 
in  abatyng  my  rente. 

Aske  rente  fro  Mich.  xv°  till 
Mich.  xvij°,  and  distrayne,  and 
allowe  noe  dewty  of  Dokkynges 
in  abatyng  my  rente. 


These  maners  that  are  trahid  take  gode  hede  that  ye  be  in 
gode  suertye  of  them  this  harvest  tyme. 


920 
SIR  JOHN  PASTON'S  WILLi 

OCT.  31  [I,  JOHN  PASTON,]  Knyght,  in  the  last  day  of  0[ctober, 

Anno]  Domini  m'cccclxxvj°,  will,  graunte,  and  be  queth  my 

sowle  to  All  myghty  God,  and  to  the Marye, 

Seint  John  Baptist,  Seint  Gorge,  Seint  Cristofur,  and  Seint 
Barbara  ;  and  my  body,  yf  I  dyghe  ny  the  Cyte  of  London, 
[to  the  chapel]  of  Owre  Lady  in  the  Whithe  Frerys  there,  at 
the  Northeest  corner  of  the  body  of  the  chyrche,  and  there  to 

be   made  an  orator[y] or  muche  leke  as   ys 

over  Sir  Thomas  Browne  in  the  Frere  Prechours,  to  the  valour 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]     The  original  of  this  document  is  mutilated.     It  is 
endorsed  in  a  more  modern  hand,  'Testamentum  Johannis  Paston  Senioris  militis.' 
300 


EDWARD  IV 

of  xx//.,  SO  that  it  may  cause ther  prayours     ^477 

there,  the  rather  to  remembre  my  sowle,  and  to  pray  therefore  ;    °'^"^*  3  * 

and  that  there  be  gevyn  to  the  behofF at  plotte 

of  grounde  be  made  suer  unto  me  for  ever  the  some  of  xx. 
marc. 

dayly,  be  the  space  of  an  holl  yere, 

by  soumme  well  disposed  brother  of  the  same  howse,  and  that 

the  seyd  brother [not]withstondyng  yf  I 

decesse  in  the  counte   of  Norffolk,  or  there  nye  abouute,  I 
wolde  my  bodye  were   buried   at   the  prio[ry  of  Bromholm] 

un  to  the  Founders  Toumbe,  which  arche  is 

unto  the  North   syde,  and   ryght  agayn  my  fadyr  toum[be] 

ith  an  awter  and  a  toumbe  for  me, 

to  the  value  of  xx//.,  and  that  the  howse  there  have  a  rewarde 

to  the  frerys  of  London,  and 

that  there  be  also  a  broder  of  that  howse  to  synge  for  my  sowle 
by  one salarye. 

a  closette  made  at  my  cost  over  my  faders  body  ther     . 

of  xx//.,  so  that  owre  cousyns    . 

have  the  more  devocion   to   that  place, 

and   the  rather  reste  there  bodyes  there  the  encresse  of  the 

encrese  and  profile  of  the  howse, 

and  reste  on  the  religeus  there  of,  lyke  as  owr  auncetours  have 

[a]nd  to  the  entent  that  I  disclosed 

but  on  to  fewe  persons  concernyng  the  fee  ferme  that  is  payed 
Duke  of  Suffolk. 

[Item,  I  will  that  my  bro]ther,  John,  yf  I  dye  with  owth 
yssue  leffull  of  my  bodye,  have  the  maner  of  Swaywell  to  hym 

and accordyng  to  the  willez  both  of 

myn  graunfader  and  of  my  fader,  on  whos  sowles  God  have 
mercye,  the esse. 

[Item,  I  will  that  the]   Bysshoppe  of  Wynchester,  or  his 
assygnes,  woll  and  fynde  suerte  to  do  founde  at  the  lyste  iiij. 

prestys of  John   Fastolf  and 

his  frendys,  &c.,  at  Caster,  and  that  there  be  bylded  loggyng 

conveniant    for    those 

adjoynyng  uppon  the  bakhous  over  the  gardeyn  withouuth  the 

301 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1477     mote  on  the  Weste  syde  of  my 

o'^i"-3i    in  the  seid  maner  or  maners  yn  Caster,  graunt  by  chartour, 

grounde,  space,  and  londe,  convenyant  for  such 

.     .     entre  and   yssue   therunto,  and  to  that   entent,  and 

byldyng  or  purchasyng  of  license  of  the  kyng 

profitez  of  the   seid   maners  holly  be   expendid  the 
terme  of  vij.  yerez  next  after  my  dissece  ;  and,  moreover,     . 

resorte   theder  in   his  owne   persone   to 

over  see  the  werkys  or  byldyng  or  establyssyng  of  the  seyd 
howse  [he  shall  h]ave  playn  lyberte  to  dwell  withinne  my  seid 
maner  and  fortresse  the  seid  terme  of  vij.  yerez,  and  that    . 
.     .     estys. 

[chajpell  of  Seint 

John  Baptyst,  withyn  the  seyd  towne  of  Caster,  with  all  the 

profitez  yerly  of  that  same  begeny[ng] 

.     ed    to   the   seyd  college   or  howse  for  evermore,  with 
lycence  therunto  had  of  the  Kyng  and  of  the  Pope,  with    .     .     . 

in  Caster  before  seyd,  which  londis,  with  the 

seyd  chapell,  schalbe  of  the  yerly  value  of  vij//-  yerly    . 

.     ment  of  one  prest  above  the  charge  that  the  Bysshope 

wyll  do  to  pray  for  the  sowles  of  my  fader 

.     Thomas  Lyndys,  clerk,  and  of  Sir  John  Dawbeney. 

And  that  after  this  above  wretyn  be  performed,  yf  that    .     .     . 

.     es  make  astate  by  fyne  reryd  and   enrolled   in   the 

Kynges  courte  of  the  seid  maner  and  maners  in  Castre     .     .     . 

yssue  of  his  bodye  laufully  comyeng, 

and  for  defaute  of  yssue  of  his  body  lawfully 

[remjayne  to  the   issue  of  my   moders  lawfully   commynge. 
And  for  defaute  of  yssue  of  her  body  lawfully  commyng 

myn  uncle,  Edward  Maudeby,  and  to  the 

yssue  of  his  body  lawfully  commynge.     And  that  for  defaute 

[comm]yng  that  the  seyd  maners 

remayn  to  my  cousyn,  Sir  William  Calthorp,  and  to  the  right 

eyrez defaute  of  issue 

of  his  body  lawfully  commynge,  the  seyd  maners  to  reverte  to 

the 

[Item,  I  will  that  the  priest  of  the  chap]ell  of  the  seyd 
collage  be  presented  by  the  lordys  of  my  seid  maner     .     . 
302 


EDWARD  IV 

ed    by   Syr   John     1477 

FastolfF.  o'^^-  3 1 

eryng  de  eadem  villa  vendatur  per  executores  meos  ad  perim- 

plendum  et  persolvendum 

em  invenetit  securitatem  ad  redimendum  manerium  de  Sporle 

prasdictum,  quod  si  ipse x.  acr' 

terras  de  eisdem  perquesit'  de  Johanne  Kendall  tempore  debito 
dentur  praedicto  Johanni  fratri  [meo  et  haeredibus  suis  legiti]me 
procreatis  ;  et  defectu  exitus  legitimi  de  praedicto  Johanne 
fratre  meo,  tunc  prasdictas  terras  et  tenementa  remaneant  .  . 
triavi  mei,  legittime  pro- 
creatis ;  et  pro  defectu  exitus  legittimi  praedicti  triavi  mei,  tunc 

remaneant    Willelmo [et    haeredibus    ijpsius 

Willelmi  legitime  procreatis  ;  et  pro  defectu  exitus  legitimi 
praedicti  Willelmi,  tunc  omnia  praedicta  terras  et  tenementa 
[remaneant] assignatis  imperpetuum ;  pro- 
viso quod  executores  testamenti  Willelmi  Pekering  habeant  x. 

marcas  pro et  habeat  xxxvij.  acras  terras  de 

praedictis  terris  sibi  per  voluntatem  patris  ejus  assignatis  sive 

legatis    si    tantas terras     quae 

idem  Johannes  vendidit  sint  de  numero  illarum  acrarum  sibi 
limitatarum   per  Nicholaum  patrem   prasdicti  Johannis  ac     . 

recompensacionem ;    eo    quod    idem 

Johannes  forte  credidit  quod  ipse  juste  potuit  vendere,  quasque 

terrae    et   tenementa    in    feofamento [pat]ris, 

non   obstante  quod  pater   prasdictus   non   declaravit  quicquid 

faciendum  de  dictis  terris  suis  ultra  certas  acras 

.     .     .     .     na  ipsius  patris. 


3<^3 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

921 

WILLIAM  PEKOC  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

'To  my  ryth  worschepffull  master^  Sir  John  Paston,  Knyth,  logyd 
at  the  Goorge,  be  Powll  Warffe,  in  London^  in  hast. 

j.yy  "Ti  YTH  worchepful  sir,  I  recomand  me  to  yowr  good 
NOV.  19  rv  masterchep.  Plseyth  you  to  wete  that  I  have  pur- 
-*-  ^  weyid  for  for  your  heryng  a  non  after  your  depart- 
yng,  but  I  can  yet  no  caryage,  nowthir  owte  of  Yermowth, 
ner  in  no  oder  place  be  twyn  Wynterton  and  Leystoft,  nowthir 
be  lond  nor  be  the  se,  not  yet ;  and  specyally  for  your  swanes. 
Hery  Cook  seyth  he  woUe  no  more  come  on  the  se  with  his 
good  wylle.  Ther  is  no  man  wyllyng  to  del  with  your 
swanes.  Also,  as  for  your  hors,  ye  most  ordayne  a  nothir 
keper  than  they  have,  or  ellis  ye  chal  not  leke  wel  be  them 
whan  ye  se  hem ;  they  arn  nowthir  redyn  nor  corayd.  Peris 
is  meche  owteward,  and  Whyte  wol  not  a  tende  hem,  nowdyr 
for  Peris  ner  for  me.  They  arn  not  watryd  butt  at  the  welle. 
Peris  hath  be  ryth  seke;  and  yet,  but  for  dyspleser  of  you, 
Peris  had  ben  in  hand  with  Whyte  or  this  tyme.  Ye 
muste  be  proveyd  of  a  nothir  hors  keper,  or  elles  it  wol  do 
you  harm  on  your  hors.  Also,  I  have  had  iiij/z.  for  to  a  sent 
you  if  I  cowde  have  gete  ony  trosty  man  to  youward.  As  for 
barly,  I  can  non  selle  a  bove  xiiij^.  the  comb.  As  your  leter 
that  ye  sent  me,  I  have  fownd  a  frere  that  hath  promyssyd  me 
to  do'n  his  dever  if  it  may  be  browte  a  bowte  be  ony  mene  in 
hast.  Also  there  is  a  grete  chyppe  go  to  wrekke  be  for  Wyn- 
terton, and  there  came  up  on  your  several  grownd  gret  plente 
of  bowe  stawys  and  waynescotte,  and  clappalde "  grete  plente. 
I  gate  cartys  and  caryd  to  the  towne  that  that  was  fownd  on 
your  fee.     Mastras  Clere  hath  sen  down  hyr  men,  and  with 

1  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]     This  letter  is  endorsed  by  Sir  John  Paston,  'Pekok, 
m.  [i.e.  mense]  Decembris,  anno  E.  iiij"  xvij".' 

2  Board  cut  to  make  casks. 


EDWARD  IV 

set  alle  the  stuff  and  wrekke,  and  seyth  that  ye  gete  non  1477 
there,  for  sche  wol  have  it  be  the  tytyl  of  the  lete,  and  I  have  nov.  19 
answerd  there  to,  that  che  owte  non  to  have  be  that  tytil ;  and 
so  if  ye  wol  comon  with  yor  cownsel,  I  trow  it  to  the  lord  of 
the  soylle  and  not  to  the  lete  ;  for  the  maner  holdyth  nothyng 
of  hyr.  Sche  had  never  no  wrekke  nor  growndage  till  withinne 
this  XX.  wynter.  There  is  no  maner  in  Wyynterton  but  your ; 
lesse  your  ryth  now  and  lesse  it  for  ever.  I  am  threte  to  be 
trobelid  there,  for  there  ben  v.  men  on  lyve  of  the  chyppe. 
The  hordes  had  ben  good  for  wyndownes  and  dores.  Ye 
chuld  have  had  thyme  worthe  the  money,  and  sche  had  not 
lettyd  it.  Ther  is  com  up  ter  [jtar']  at  Caster  v.  or  vj.  barell. 
Men  of  Scrowby  hath  fet  it  awey.  Ye  must  have  a  meen  be 
sum  wryte  of  trespas  for  them,  or  ellis  it  wool  do  yow  meche 
harm  here  after.  Rechard  Kedman,  John  Pool,  senior,  and 
William  Abbys,  these  arn  summe  of  ther  namys  of  Scrowby. 

Item,  I  receyved  a  leter  the  Twis  day  befor  Sen  Edmunde 
the  Kyng  there  as  ye  wryte  to  me  for  William  Foster;  his 
sewirtesse  ston  chargyd  for  iiij/z.  vjj.  viij<^.,  as  John  Seyve 
hath  seyd  to  me  or  the  tyme  that  I  receyvyd  your  leter,  but 
he  hath  ij.  men  of  Norwech  to  sewirte  to  save  hym  and  his 
felaw  harmeless.  Scharggar  is  on,  and  Vyncent  the  plomer  is 
a  nothir  that  chal  here  the  dawnger.  And  as  for  your  swanes, 
I  have  gette  a  man  that  chal  cary  hem  be  lond,  and  that  I  chal 
send  word  with  the  swanes  that  the  herynges  chal  com  be 
water;  and  if  the  chuld  have  ony  heryng  for  your  store,  it 
wold  be  purveyd  for,  for  heryng  wol  be  dere  or  Lente. 

Item,  there  arn  wyndownes  blow  opyn  in  the  place,  and 
the  wyndown  of  the  gonne  hows  with  inne  the  brege  is  revyn. 
I  wot  not  whethir  it  was  so  or  ye  wente  or  not.  My  Lord  of 
Norwech  was  at  Caster  Halle  for  to  a  cen  the  place  as  he  cam 
to  London  ward.  Ser,  remembir  your  hors  to  have  a  better 
keper.  Ser,  to  remembir  thesse  men  of  Scrowby,  and  comon 
with  Master  William  Paston  there  in,  for  he  partith  with  you 
both  wrekke  and  growndage  in  Caster ;  and  he  wold  take  the 
accyon  in  his  lordes  name  that  he  delyth  for,  it  ware  a  good 
way,  be  my  sympil  wyth.  God  preserve  you,  and  kepe  yow, 
and  bryng  yow  home  a  yen  to  your  contre. 

VOL.  V. — u  305 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1477  Wretyn  at  Mawteby  on  Sen  Edmundis  Evyn,  the  Kyng, 

NOV.  19  in  hast, 

Be  your  man  and  servant, 

William  Pekoc. 


922 

WILLIAM  PEKOC  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

NOV.  30  I  -%  YTH  worchypfull  ser,  I  recomand  me  to  your  good 
r^  masterchep.  Plesyth  you,  as  for  Pekrynges  mater, 
I  sent  a  frere  in  John  Pekerynges  name  for  the 
evydens;  and  he  had  an  answer  that  if  he  had  a  busschelful 
of  evydenss,  he  chuld  noon  have  of  them,  for  he  hath  set  the 
londe  in  trobill,  nor  he  cowd  have  no  seyte  of  none.  Also 
remembir  your  ryth  of  your  wreke  at  Wynterton.  Thesse 
arn  the  menes  namys  of  Wynterton,  Robert  Parker  of  West 
Somerton,  John  Longyard  of  Wynterton,  Thomas  Goodknape 
of  the  same.  Will  Wrantham  and  John  Curteys  of  the  same 
Wynterton,  that  caryid  of  your  severel  grownd  xxij.  carte  ful 
of  stufFe,  viij'"'''  bowestavis,  iij''''-  and  vij.  waynescottes,  xiiij*^- 
clapalde,^  v.  barell  ter,  iiij.  copil  oris,  and  gret  plante  \_plenty\ 
of  wreke  of  the  schyppe  that  is  v/orth  meche  mony,  as  ye  chal 
understonde  the  trowth  after  this. 

And  as  for  your  heryng  that  chuld  in  to  Essexkes,  they 
arn  there,  be  the  grace  of  God.  As  for  your  swanes,  they 
chal  be  there  be  Our  Ladys  Day  next  comyng,  I  troste  to 
God,  Ho  have  your  masterchyp  in  Is  kepyng. 

Wretyn  at  Mawteby,  where  as  I  am  ryth  werey,  on  Sen 
Andrews  Day,  Anno  xvij°  E. 


Ser,  if  it  plese  your  masterchep,  I  sold  yet  no  barly,  ner 
none  can  a  bove  xiiij^.  the  comb,  as  I  sen  word  in  a  leter  be 
John  Russe ;  and  I  toke  iiij//.  in  mony  to  bryng  to  your 
materchep.     The   prysse   of  your   heryng   is   iiij//.   iijj.   iiij^^., 

1  [From  Paston  MSS.,  B.M.]    There  is  no  address  on  this  letter,  but  it  is  endorsed, 
like  the  preceding,  by  Sir  John  Paston,  '  Pekok,  mense  Decembris,  anno  E.  iiij''  xvij°.' 

2  See  page  304,  Note  2. 

306 


EDWARD  IV 

besyd  oder  costes.     Hery  Cook  wold  goo  with  your  swanes,     1477 
for  hys  yefte  chuld  be  v'y.  vujd.y  and  there  fore  he  wold  yeffe    nov.  30 
you  his  labore,  be  so  ye  payd  for  his  costes.     Ipse  dixit. 

Be  vour  servauiit, 

Will.  Pekoc. 


MARGERY  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTONi 

To  myryth  reverent  and  worscheful  husbondj  Jon  Paston. 

RYTH  reverent  and  worscheful  husbond,  I  recomaunde  dec.  18 
me  to  yow,  desyryng  hertyly  to  here  of  yowr  wylfare, 
thankyng  yow  for  the  tokyn  that  ye  sent  me  be 
Edmunde  Perys,  preyng  yow  to  wete  that  my  modyr  sent  to 
my  fadyr  to  London  for  a  goune  cloth  of  mustyrddevyllers  ^ 
to  make  of  a  goune  for  me  ;  and  he  tolde  my  modyr  and  me 
wanne  he  was  comme  home,  that  he  cargeyt  yow  to  beyit, 
aftyr  that  he  were  come  oute  of  London. 

I  pre  yow,  yf  it  be  not  bowt,  that  ye  wyl  wechesaf  to  byit, 
and  sendyt  home  as  sone  as  ye  may,  for  I  have  no  goune  to 
weyre  this  wyntyr  but  my  blake  and  my  grene  a  lyer,^  and 
that  is  so  comerus  that  I  ham  wery  to  weryt. 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  256.]  It  is  curious  that  after  so  much  negotiation  for  the 
marriage  of  John  Paston  and  Margery  Brews,  we  have  no  record  in  these  letters  when 
it  actually  took  place  ;  but  probably  it  was  in  August  1477,  the  last  reference  to  it  as 
an  event  not  yet  accomplished  being  on  the  7th  of  that  month  (No.  916).  In  Janu- 
ary 1478,  John  Paston  talks  of  taking  his  wife  to  her  father's  house  on  account  of  her 
situation,  and  their  first  child  was  born  in  the  course  of  the  following  summer.  This 
letter  seems  to  have  been  written  in  December.  Fenn  remarks  that  St.  Thomas's  Day 
might  mean  the  Translation  of  St.  Thomas  a  Becket,  7th  July  1478,  and  'Our  Lady's 
Day'  might  be  the  Visitation  of  the  Virgin,  2nd  July  preceding.  But  this  is  simply 
impossible,  because  the  letter  is  dated  Thursday  before  St.  Thomas's  Day,  which 
would  in  that  case  be  the  very  same  date  as  the  Visitation  of  Our  Lady,  viz.  the  2nd 
July  1478.  Besides,  if  the  first  child  of  John  Paston  and  Margery  was  not  actually 
bom  before  July,  the  latter  was  certainly  much  nearer  to  her  confinement  then  than 
this  letter  would  imply.     See  No.  936  in  vol.  vi. 

A  facsimile  of  this  letter  was  published  in  the  European  Magazine  for  March 
1787,  and  we  have  carefully  compared  the  text  with  this  facsimile. 

2  A  kind  of  grey  woollen  cloth. 

3  Fenn  suggests  Grenouilliere  or  frog-colour,  but  I  find  no  authority  for  such 
a  word  ;  and  I  should  suppose  '  grene '  to  be  a  separate  word,  though  what  '  a  Iyer ' 
is  I  cannot  say. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1477  As  for  the  gyrdyl  that  my  fadyr  be  hestyt  me,  I  spake  to 

DEC.  18  hym  ther  of  a  lytyl  before  he  zede  to  London  last,  and  he 
seyde  to  me  that  the  faute  was  in  yow,  that  ze  wolde  not 
thynk  ther  uppe  on  to  do  makyt  [to  get  it  made\  ;  but  I 
sopose  that  ys  not  so  ;  he  seydyt  but  for  a  skwsacion.  I  pre 
yow,  y{  ye  dor  takyt  uppe  on  yow,  that  ye  wyl  weche  safe  to 
do  makyt  a  yens  ye  come  home,  for  I  hadde  never  more  nede 
ther  of  than  I  have  now,  for  I  ham  waxse  so  fetys  ^  that  I  may 
not  be  gyrte  in  no  barre  of  no  gyrdyl  that  I  have  but  of  one. 
Elisabet  Peverel  hath  leye  sek  xv.  or  xvj.  wekys  of  the  seye- 
tyka,  but  sche  sent  my  modyr  word  be  Kate,  that  sche  xuld 
come  hedyr  wanne  God  sent  tyme,  thoow  sche  xuld  be  crod 
\wheeled'\  in  a  barwe. 

Jon  of  Damm  was  here,  and  my  modyr  dyskevwyrd  me 
to  hym,  and  he  seyed,  be  hys  trouth  that  he  was  not  gladder 
of  no  thyng  that  he  harde  thys  towlmonyth,  than  he  was 
ther  of. 

I  may  no  lenger  leve  be  my  crafte,  I  am  dysscevwyrd  of 
alle  men  that  se  me. 

Of  alle  odyr  thyngys  that  ye  deseyreyd  that  I  xuld  sende 
yow  word  of,  I  have  sent  yow  word  of  in  a  letter  that  I  dede 
wryte  on  Ouwyr  Ladyis  Day  ^  laste  was.  The  Holy  Trenyte 
have  yow  in  Hese  kepyng. 

Wretyn  at  Oxnede,  in  ryth  gret  hast,  on  the  Thrusday 
next  be  fore  Seynt  Tomas  Day.^ 

I  pre  yow  that  ye  wyl  were  the  reyng  with  the  emage  of 
Seynt  Margrete,  that  I  sent  yow  for  a  rememraunse,  tyl  ye 
come  home  ;  ye  have  lefte  me  sweche  a  rememraunse,  that 
makyth  me  to  thynke  uppe  on  yow  bothe  day  and  nyth  wanne 
I  wold  sclepe. 

Your  ys,  M.  P. 

^  This  word  commonly  signifies  neat  or  elegant,  and  seems  to   be   used   here 
ironically. 

2  Conception  of  Our  Lady,  8th  of  December. — F. 

3  2ist  December,  the  day  of  St.  Thomas  Apostle,  or  perhaps  29th  December,  the 
day  of  St.  Thomas  (a  Becket)  the  Martyr. 


308 


EDWARD  IV 


924 

ABSTRACT! 

Bill  in  Parliament  confirming  the  statute  of  Marlborough  [[52  Hen.  111.3,  1478^?) 
with    additions  touching  wardships,  reliefs,   etc.,  to   take  effect    after    Easter, 
1480. 

[The  last  Parliament  before  1480  met  on  the  i6th  January  1478.     This  measure 
was  probably  introduced  or  Intended  for  discussion  at  that  period.] 


JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  2 

'To  my  ryght  worchepfull  broder,  Syr  John  Paston^  Knyght. 

SYR,  aftyr  all  dutes  of  recomendacyon,  lyeketh  yow  to  1478 
undyrstand  that  I  have  comond  with  dyvers  folkys  of  jan.  21 
the  Dwk  of  Suffolk  now  thys  Crystmas  and  sythen, 
whyche  let  me  in  secret  wyse  have  knowlage,  lyek  as  1  wrott 
on  to  yow,  that  he  must  mak  a  shefft  for  money,  and  that  in 
all  hast.  Wherfor,  syr,  at  the  reverence  of  God,  let  it  not  be 
lachesyd,  but  with  effect  aplyed  now,  whyll  he  is  in  London, 
and  my  lady  hys  wyff  also ;  for  I  assarteyn  yow  that  C.  mark 
wyll  do  more  now  in  ther  neede  then  ye  shall  peraventure  do 
with  CC.  marks  in  tyme  comyng,  and  thys  season  be  not  takyn. 
And  alweys  fynd  the  meane  that  my  Lady  of  Suffolk  and  Syr 
R.  Chamberleyn  may  be  yowr  gwydes  in  thys  mater,  for  as  for 
my  lord,  he  nedyth  not  to  be  mevyd  with  it  tyll  it  shold  be  as 
good  as  redy  to  the  sealyng. 

Syr,  lyeketh  yow  also  to  remember  that  I  told  yow  that 
Mastyr  Yotton  ^  had,  as  I  cam  last  towardes  London,  desyred 
me,  by  a  lettre  of  attorney  wryttyn  with  hys  owne  hand,  to  se 


1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

3  Dr.  Yotton  was  the  Queen's  chaplain. — F. 


309 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1478  th'enprowment  of  syche  profytes  as  ar  growing  of  hys  chapell 
JAN.  21  In  Caster  that  ye  gave  hym  ;  and  at  syche  season  as  I  told 
yow  of  it,  ye  sayd  on  to  me  that  ye  wold  asay  to  make  a 
bargayn  with  hym,  so  that  ye  myght  have  a  prest  to  syng  in 
Caster.  Syr,  me  thynkes  ye  can  not  have  so  good  a  season 
to  meve  hym  with  it  as  now  thys  Parlement  tyme,  for  now  I 
thynk  he  shalbe  awaytyng  on  the  Quene ;  and  also  if  ye  myght 
compone  with  hym  or  he  wyst  what  the  valew  wer,  it  wer  the 
better,  and  I  have  promysed  hym  to  send  hym  woord  thys 
terme  of  the  verry  valew  of  it,  and  also  syche  mony  as  I  cowd 
gader  of  it.  Wherfor,  syr,  I  prey  yow  that  by  the  next 
messenger  that  ye  can  get  to  Pekok  that  ye  wyll  send  hym 
woord  to  paye  me  for  the  lend  in  xxx.  acres,  as  it  hathe  ben 
answerd  before  tym. 

And  as  for  tydynges  here,  we  have  none,  but  we  wold 
fayne  here  of  all  your  royalte  at  London,  as  of  the  maryage  of 
my  Lord  of  York,^  and  other  Parlement  mater  ;  and  so  I  prey 
yow  that  I  may  doo  when  ye  have  leyser. 

Syr,  I  prey  yow  that  Whetley  may  have  knowlage  that  my 
broder  Yelverton  hathe  promysed  me  to  take  hym  yld. ;  he 
owyth  me  by  reason  of  his  fermore  at  Caster  more  then  that. 

And,  syr,  as  for  my  huswyff,  I  am  fayne  to  carry  hyr  to  se 
hyr  fadyr  and  hyr  frendes  now  thys  wynter,  for  I  trow  she 
wyll  be  ought  of  facyon  in  somer.  And  so  in  my  progresse 
fro  my  fadyr  Brews  on  to  Mawtby,  I  took  Master  Playter  in 
my  wey,  at  whoys  hows  I  wrot  thys  bylle,  the  xxj.  day  of 
January,  anno  E.  iiij"  xvij°.  And  I  beseche  God  to  preserve 
yow  and  yours. 

Yowr,  J.  Paston. 

Endorsed  by  Sir  John  Paston,  'J.  P.,  anno  xvij°.' 

1  Richard,  Duke  of  York,  second  son  to  King  Henry  iv.,  married  Ann,  daughter 
and  heir  of  John  Mowbray,  Duke  of  Norfolk,  15th  January  1477-78. — F. 


310 


EDWARD  IV 

926 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON^ 

To  my  ryght  worchepfull  modyr^  Margaret  Paston. 

RYGHT  worchepfull  modyr,  aftyr  all  dwtes  of  humble  147^ 
recomendacyon,  in  as  humble  wyse  as  I  can,  I  beseche  ^^^*  3 
yow  of  your  dayly  blyssyng.  Pleasyt  yow  to  wett 
that  at  my  being  now  at  London,  lyek  as  ye  gave  me  in 
comandment,  I  mevyd  to  Mastyr  Pykenham  and  to  Jamys 
Hubart  for  ther  being  at  Norwyche  now  thys  Lent,  that  ye 
myght  have  ther  avyses  in  syche  maters  as  ye  let  me  have 
understandyng  of.  And  as  for  Mastyr  Pykenham,  he  is  now 
Juge  of  the  Archys,  and  also  he  hathe  an  other  offyce,  whyche 
is  callyd  Auditor  Causarum,  and  hys  besyness  is  so  gret  in 
bothe  thes  offyces  that  he  can  not  tell  the  season  when  that  he 
shall  have  leyser  to  come  in  to  Norffolk.  But  I  left  not  tyll 
I  had  gotyn  Jamys  Hubbart  and  hym  togedyrs,  and  then  I 
told  theym  your  intent ;  and  then  Mastyr  Pykenham  told 
Jamys  and  me  hys  intent,  and  he  preyed  Jamys  that  he  shold 
in  no  wyse  fayle  to  be  with  yow  thys  Lent.  Not  withstandyng 
it  was  no  grete  nede  to  prey  hym  myche ;  for  he  told  Doctore 
Pykenham  that  there  was  no  gentyl  woman  in  Inglond  of  so 
lytyll  aqueyntance  as  he  had  with  yow,  that  he  wold  be  glader 
to  be  servyse  on  to  ;  and  myche  the  glader,  for  he  purposeth 
fro  hensforthe  duryng  hys  lyff  to  be  a  Norffolk  man,  and  to 
lye  with  in  ii.  myle  of  Loddon,  whyche  is  but  viij.  or  x. 
myle  at  the  most  fro  Mautby.  And  in  conclusyon  he  hathe 
appoyntyd  to  awayte  on  yow  at  Norwyche  the  weeke  nexte 
aftyr  Mydlent  Sonday,  all  the  hole  weke,  if  nede  be,  all  other 
maters  leyd  apart. 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  appears  from  the  contents  to  have  been 
written  after  John  Paston's  marriage,  at  a  time  when  his  wife  was  staying  at  Swains- 
thorpe.  He  also  apologises  to  his  mother  for  his  wife  having  detained  two  pounds 
out  of  a  certain  quantity  of  dates  that  he  himself  had  sent  to  her  from  London  by 
way  of  Swainsthorpe,  as  Margery  thouglit  them  '  at  this  season  right  good  meat,' 
apparently  referring  to  her  approaching  confinement. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1478  Also  I  comend  with  my  brodyr  Sir  John   at  London  of 

FEB.  3     syche  maters  as  ye  wold  have  amendyd  in  the  bylle  that  he 
sent  on  to  yow,  and  he  stake  not  gretly  at  it. 

Also,  modyr,  I  herd  whyle  I  was  in  London  wher  was 
a  goodly  yong  woman  to  mary,  whyche  was  doughter  to  one 
Seff,  a  merser,  and  she  shall  have  CC/i.  in  money  to  hyr 
maryage,  and  xx.  mark  by  yer  of  lend  aftyr  the  dyssease  of 
a  steppe  modyr  of  hyrs,  whyche  is  upon  1.  yer  of  age  ;  and  or 
I  departyd  ought  of  London,  I  spak  with  some  of  the  maydys 
frendys,  and  have  gotyn  ther  good  wyllys  to  have  hyr  maryd 
to  my  brodyr  Edmund.  Notwithstandyng,  those  frendys 
of  the  maydys  that  I  comond  with  avysyd  me  to  get  the 
good  wyll  of  one  Sturmyn,  whyche  is  in  Mastyr  Pykenhamys 
danger^  so  myche  that  he  is  glad  to  please  hym  ;  and  so  I 
mevyd  thys  mater  to  Mastyr  Pykenham.  And  incontinent 
he  sent  for  Sturmyn,  and  desyred  hys  good  wyll  for  my 
brodyr  Edmund,  and  he  grantyd  hym  hys  good  wylle,  so 
that  he  koud  get  the  good  wyll  of  the  remenaunt  that  wer 
executours  to  Seff,  as  well  as  the  seyd  Sturmyn  was ;  and  thus- 
ferforthe  is  the  mater.  Wherfor,  modyr,  we  must  beseche  yow 
to  helpe  us  forward  with  a  lettyr  fro  yow  to  Mastyr  Pykenham 
to  remembyr  hym  for  to  handyll  well  and  dylygently  thys 
mater  now  thys  Lent ;  and  for  I  am  aqueyntyd  with  your 
condycyons  of  old  that  ye  reke  not  who  endytyth  more  lettres 
than  ye,  ther  for  I  have  drawyn  a  note  to  yowr  secretarys 
hand,  Freir  Perse,  whyche  lettre  we  must  prey  yow  to  send  us 
by  the  berer  herof,  and  I  trust  it  shall  not  be  longe  fro  Mastyr 
Pykenham. 

Your  doughter  of  Sweynsthorpp  and  hyr  sojornaunt  E. 
Paston  recomandyth  hem  to  yow  in  ther  most  humble  wyse, 
lowly  besechyng  yow  of  your  blyssyng;  and  as  for  my  brodyr, 
Edmund  Sweynsthorpe,  for  none  intrete  that  hys  ostas  your 
doughtyr,  nor  1  koud  intrete  hym,  myght  not  kepe  hym,  but 
that  he  wold  have  bene  at  home  with  you  at  Mautby  on  Son- 
day  last  past  at  nyght ;  and  as  he  was  departyng  fro  hens,  had 
we  word  fro  Frenshes  wyf  that,  God  yeld  yow,  modyr,  ye 
had  govyn  hym  leve  to  dysporte  hym  her  with  us  for  a  vij.  or 

'  i.e.  in  his  debt. 
312 


EDWARD  IV 

viij.  dayes  ;  and  so  the  drevyll  lost  hys  thank  of  us,  and  yet     1478 
abode  nevyr  the  lesse.  ^^^*  3 

Your  doughtyr  sendyth  yow  part  of  syche  poore  stuff  as  I 
sent  hyr  fro  London,  besechyng  yow  to  take  it  in  gree,  though 
it  be  lytyll  plente  that  she  sendyth  yow.  But  as  for  datys,  I 
wyll  sey  trowthe,  ye  have  not  so  many  by  ij.  pownd  as  wer 
ment  on  to  yow,  for  she  thynkys  at  thys  season  datys  ryght 
good  mete.  What  so  ever  it  menyth,  I  prey  God  send  us 
good  tydynges,  Whom  I  beseche  to  preserve  yow  and  yours, 
and  so  send  yow  your  myst  desyred  joye. 

At  Sweynsthorp,  on  Ashe  Wednysday. 

Your  sone  and  humble  servaunt, 

J.  Paston. 

Modyr,  pleasit  yow  to  remember  that  ye  had  need  to  be 
at  Norwyche  v.  or  vj.  dayes  befor  that  Jamys  Hubbart  and 
your  consayll  shall  be  ther  with  yow,  for  to  look  up  your 
evydence  and  all  other  thynges  redy.  Also  if  ye  thynk  that 
thys  bylle  that  I  send  yow  herwith  be  good  i  now  to  send  to 
Doctore  Pykenham,  ye  may  close  up  the  same,  and  send  it 
sealyd  to  me  ayen,  and  I  shall  convey  it  forthe  to  hym. 

927 

WILLIAM  BOTONER  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  the  Ryght  worshypfull  sir.  Sir  John  Paston  cKVr  logged  at  the 
signe  of  the  George  next  to  Poulys  Wharf ;  or  to  lefe  thys 
letter  at  a  barhourys  house  ovyr  the  seyd  George  to  delyver  it 
to  Sir  John  Paston. 

PLESE  yor  gode  masterschyp  to  wete  that  I  herd  thys  day  march  1 
how  a  man  wend  that  a  jugement  ys  passed  ayenst  your 
entent  yn  the  ende  of  the  last  terme  (hyt  was  not  of 
verray  certeyn   tolde   me,   but    as   a   dreme)   yn    the   kynges 
Chauncerye.     I  coude  gefe  none  aunswer  therto.    I  prai  God 

1  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  152.]  This  letter  would  seem  to  be  of  the  year  1478.  It 
will  be  seen  by  No.  925  that  in  the  beginning  of  that  year  Sir  John  Paston  wished  to 
arrange  with  Dr.  Yotton  to  get  a  priest  to  sing  in  Caister. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1478    alle  be  well ;  hyt  wold  ease  som  of  your  frendes  hertys  yff  they 
MARCH  I   coude  understand  ony  gode  comfort.      Sir,  as  for  Robert/  I 
wold  pray  and  requyre  your  maistershep  that  he  may  for  his 
lernyng  be  abydyng  with  your  cousyn  of  Lincoln  Inne,  as  yt 
was  promysed,  and  to  be  occupyed  under  drede  of  displesir 
under  subjecion,  wyth  erly  rysyng  accustomed,  for  slouth  ys 
the  moder  and  norysher  of  all  vices.     He  hath  cost  me  moch 
goode    and    labour,   and  now  he  ys   uppon  hys    makyng  by 
vertues  governance,   or  undoyng    to   the   contrarye,  and   yn 
especyalle  to  be  not  conversant  ne  neere  amongis  women,  as 
I  was  kept  froo  her  \_iheir]  company  xxx.  yeres  or  ony  suche 
were  of  my  councelle,  I  thank  God  of  yt.     Sir,  and  ye  write 
to  me  as  ye  lust,  let  no  name  be  wythynne  wryt  whens  yt  com, 
and  that  yt  be  sent  by  sure  comer  to  delyver  yt  me,  for  yt  ys 
better  brent  then  founde.      Also  your  discrecion   ought  not 
loth  (to  take  the  cost  and  labour  woUe  not  be  gret,  nether 
importune)  for  to  send  a  man  of  purpose  to  my  lord  of  [jir] 
Bysshop   Waltham   and   to   hys  councell  lerned,   ye   wete  to 
whom,  for  redy  serch  to  be  made  for  the  bill  of  half  lefe  of 
paper  quantite  of  my  hand  I  faythfuUy  delyvered  to  Master 
T.  Danvers  for  to  ovyrsee,  of  the  fyrst  appoyntment  ye  wote 
off,  that   ye   desyre  so  hertly  to   see  as  of  othyr  manyfolde 
wrytyngis  belongyng  to  yow  and  to  me.     Yt  ys  seyd  yne  a 
vers :    GuUa  cavat  lapidem  non  vi  set  sepe  cadendo^  &c.  ;  to  a 
slow  man  or  a  foryetefuU  or  lothfull  man  must  be  importune 
callyng  allway  uppon  hym  tille  he  hafe  hys  entent,  for  now 
thys  vacacion  to  spede  or  nevyr  shall  stand  in  yow  no  stede.     I 
can  no  ferther  then  the  walle. 

Item,  Sir,  I  comyned  wyth  Doctor  Yotton  at  Camebrygge- 
late,  because  there  ys  no  dyvyne  service  seyd  yn  the  free 
chapelle  at  C.,^  that  he  wold  hafe  a  grete  concience  yn  yt,  and 
to  depart  wyth  an  honest  preste  called  Sir  John  Brykkys  that 
ys  now  duellyng  wyth  a  ryzt  lovyng  kynnesman  of  yowres  ; 
the  seyd  Doctor  gevyng  me  to  aunsuer  he  wold  comyn  wyth 
yow  by  Pasch,^  and  the   rather  wyth   your  gode  wylle  wold 

^  Is  this  Robert,  son  of  Sir  John's  brother  Edmund,  who  is  mentioned  in  Margaret 
Paston's  will?  The  will,  dated  4th  February  1482,  will  be  found  printed  in  the  next 
volume.  2  Caister.  ^  Easter. 


EDWARD  IV 

depart  to  such  one  ye  owe  affeccion  unto.  Sir,  I  wold,  as  I  1478 
dar  tak  uppon  me  to  owen  your  aiFeccion  to  the  seyd  John  march  i 
Brickys,  that  he  may  wyth  more  help  of  your  cellary  hafe  the 
better  to  lyve  and  serfe  God  there  to  abyde  and  do  yow 
service  also.  I  mene  faythfuUye,  and  soo  I  pray  yow  take  yt ; 
to  remembre  a  thyng  in  seson  ys  gretely  to  commend,  and  of 
a  spedy  avantage.  The  blessed  Trinite  be  wyth  yow.  Wret 
the  fyrst  day  of  Marche. — Your 

W.  BOTONERE. 

To  J.  P.  c.^  at  London. 

Item,  I  had  foryete  to  hafe  remembred  your  maystershyp 
to  hafe  a  bille  to  your  baylly  Pecok  for  to  dely  ver  my  fermour 
of  Tyrkbye  C.  or  ii  C.  lawre  and  asshe,  and  than  to  plant  yn 
my  tenement  at  Thyrkbye,  or  foras  many  ye  lust ;  for  I  lost 
the  last  waraunt  that  ye  wrote  me  truly,  and  so  I  was  not 
served. 

Item,  yff  ye  wryte  to  me,  hyt  hath  nede  to  be  by  a  sure 
comer,  for  I  had  levyr  a  letter  be  brent  then  lost  ne  forte 
videant  Romani  .  .  .  and  at  reverence  of  Jhesu  that  my  Robert 
lose  no  tyme,  nether  be  idelle,  for  doubt  of  ymaginacions  and 
temptacions.  I  trust  wyth  your  principale  help  to  be  wyth  the 
worshypfull  gentleman  that  made  promysse  to  yow,  &c. 


928 
CONSTANCE  REYNFORTH  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON2 

[To  Sir]  John  Pas  ion,  Chevalier,  be  this  hyll  dely  very  d  in  hast. 

RYTH  reverent  and  worchepful  ser,  I  recomend  me  on  march  21 
to  yowr  masterschep,  effectually  desyryng  to  here  of 
yowr  welfare  and  contynual  prosperite  ;  and  if  it  pies 
yow  to  here  of  my  pour  estat,  I   was   in  good   hele  at  the 

1  John  Paston,  Chevalier. 

2  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  The  writer  of  this  letter  was  Sir  John  Paston's 
mistress,  by  whom  he  left  a  natural  daughter.  The  date  is  ascertained  by  an  endorse- 
ment in  Sir  John's  own  hand,  '  Custaunce  Raynford,  anno  xviij°.' 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1478  makyng  of  this  sympyll  by  11.  Towchyng  the  cause  of  my 
MARCH  21  wrytyng  to  yowr  masterschep  is,  for  as  moche  as  I  poyntyd 
with  yow  to  a  be  with  yow  be  the  day  that  ye  asyiiyd  me  of, 
the  wheche,  with  outh  yowr  good  supportacyon,  I  con  not  well 
have  myn  entent,  withouth  it  pie  yow  to  send  oon  of  yowr 
men  to  me,  and  I  psal  provyd  a  letter  in  myn  unkyll  name, 
the  wheche  he  psall  delyver  to  my  cosyn  as  he  were  myn 
unkyll  masagear,  and  be  this  mene  I  wyll  come  at  yowr 
request ;  for  my  cosyn  wold  I  psuld  not  depart  with  hym, 
with  outh  it  were  to  myn  unkyll  servyse  ;  hoys  and  all  others 
I  refuse  for  yowres,  yf  my  sympul  servyse  may  be  to  yowr 
plesure.  And  of  an  answer  herof  I  beseke  yow  be  the  brynger 
of  my  byll,  and  I  wyll  conforme  me  to  yowr  en  tente,  be  the 
grace  of  Good,  the  Wheche  mot  preserve  yow  at  all  cures. 
Wretyn  at  Cobham,  the  xxj.  day  of  Marche. 
By  yowr  woman  and  sevnt, 

CONSTANS    ReYNFORTH. 


SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  John  Paston,  Esquier^  ande  to  Osherne  Berney,  and  to 
every che  off  them ^  be  thys  letter  delyveryd. 

MAY  5  T  RECOMAUNDE  me  to  yowe,  and  thanke  yow  off  yowr 
I  labor  that  ye  hadde  at  Heylesdon  and  Drayton  in  seyng 
-*"  the  woodys  there.  And  it  is  soo  heer  that  Ric.  Ferore 
seyde,  that  he  repentyd  hym  that  evyr  he  dalte  with  any 
woode  theer,  and  iff  I  hadde  sente  hym  but  the  leest  chylde 
that  I  hadde  to  have  warnyd  hym  to  leve  he  wolde  notte  have 
dalte  therwyth ;  and  he  ffonde  noe  comfforte  in  the  Chancery, 
but  that  he  is  lyke  to  contente  me  for  the  harmes  and  hurte 
that  is  doone,  and  moore  ovyr  he  hathe  an  instrucyon  that  he 
shall  ffelle  noo  moore. 

Item,  wheer  as  he  desyryd  me  to  be  freendly  to  hym,  I 
dalte  so  with  hym,  that  I  trowe  he  wylle  reporte  that  I  seyde 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 
316 


EDWARD  IV 

and  dalte  moore  cortesly  with  hym  than  he  demyd  that  I  1478 
wolde  doo.  Yitt  for  alle  in  convenyences  that  myght  ffalle,  I  may  5 
wolde  be  gladde  to  have  a  weell  stomakyd  felawe  that  wolde 
for  my  sake  everye  daye  see  the  seyde  woodes  of  Heylesdon 
and  Drayton,  and  to  knowe  iff  any  weer  fellyd  heer  afftre  ; 
and  iffe  there  be  any  fellyd  syns  that  Whetley  was  theer,  and 
I  can  preve  it  by  wytnesse,  I  sholde  have  better  recompence 
for  every  tree  than  iiij.  trees  weer  worthe. 

Item,  it  is  so  that  he  hathe  answeryd  to  my  bille,  wheryn 
he  seythe  that  he  never  knywe  byfor  the  subpena  delyveryd 
hym  that  I  hadde  any  clayme   or   entrest   in   the  maner  off 
Heylesdon,  but  that  it  was  peasyble  my  Lordys  off  Suffolk. 
Wherffor  I  suppose  that  there  be  many  men  in  Norwyche  that 
comonyd  with  hym  off  the  byenge  off  that  woode  ere  evyr  he 
made  hys  fuUe  bergayne,  and  per  aventure  some  freendys  off 
hys  gave  hym  warnyng  theroff,  and  off  myn  entrest.     Iff  any 
suche  credyble  mane  that  hadde  hadde  any  suche  langage  to 
hym,  or  in  hys  companye,  or  than  he  bargayned,  or  any  man 
that  he  laboryd  to  be  halffe  marchant  or  byer  with  hym,  ar 
any  man    that   refusyd    to    bye    the  seyd  wood  bycawse  off 
myn  entrest  in  the  presence  of  Feror,  any  suche  credyble  man 
maye,  iff  he  wyll,  wytnesse  ther  in  with  me,  or  that  dare  avowe 
it,  sholde  be  to  me  a  remedy  off  alle  that  is  fellyd.     I  praye 
yow,  if  ye  can  here  any  suche,  that  ye  will  in  the  presence 
off  them  make  a  bylle  of  remembraunce  theroff,  and  off  ther 
sayng,  so  that  they  maye  her  afftre  wytnesse  in  the  mater. 
Neverthelesse,  trowthe  it  is  that  he  hadde  knowleche  ther  off  i 
nowe,  and  soo  hadde  every  man  off  hys  havore  [sui^stancel  in 
Norwych,  I  dowt  nott ;  and  as  for  hym,  I  am  sure  he  hadde 
knowleche,   for   so   moche   as  he  desyryd  at  hys   bargayn  to 
have  a  sywerte  to  be  savyd  harmeles  ageyn  me,  whyche  was 
grawntyd   hym   butt   nott  executyd.      No   mor,  butt   I   hope 
with  Goddys  grace  to  have  hastely  goode  remedy  for  the  hole 
maner,  and  off  Drayton  therto,  and  alle  the  remenaunte. 

Wretyn  a  London,   the  v.   daye  off  Maye,  anno  E.  iiij*' 
xviij°. 


317 


hs 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

930 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  1 

To  my  ryght  worshypfull  modre^  Margret  Paston^  be 

thys  delyvered. 

1478  I  ^LEASE  it  yow  to  weete,  that  wher  as  I  entendyd  to  have 
MAY  13  i-^  ben  at  home  thys  Mydsomer,  and  purposyd  with  yowr 
goode  helpe  to  have  bygonne  uppon  my  ffadrys  tombe, 
so  that  it  myght  have  ben  endyd  thys  somyr  ;  it  is  soo,  that 
ffor  suche  cawsys  as  ar  nowe  bygunne  by  twyen  my  Lorde  ofF 
Suffolk  and  me,  ffor  the  manerys  off  Heylesdon,  Drayton,  &c., 
for  whyche  materis  I  most  nedys  be  heer  thys  nexte  terme  ; 
therffor  I  deme  it  woU  be  afftr  Mydsomer,  er  than  I  can 
see  yow. 

Please  it  yow  also  to  weete  that  I  comonyd  with  Master 
Pykenham  to  weete  iff  he  wolde  bye  the  clothe  off  golde,  for 
soo  moche  as  he  desyryd  ons  to  have  bowte  it,  and  he  offryd 
me  ons  xx.  marke  therffor,  neverthelesse  it  coste  me  xxiiij/z".  ; 
yit  nowe,  when  that  I  spake  to  hym  ther  off,  he  refusyd  to 
bye  it,  and  seyde  that  he  hadde  nowe  so  many  chargys  that  he 
maye  nott.  Butt  it  is  soo  that  the  Kynge  dothe  mak  sertayne 
copys  and  vestymentys  off  like  clothe,  whyche  he  entendyth  to 
gyve  to  the  Coledge  at  Foodryngdre,  wher  my  lorde  hys  ffadre 
is  nowe  buryed,  and  he  byethe  at  a  grete  pryce. 

I  comonyd  with  the  vestment  maker  ffor  to  helpe  me  fforthe 
with  xij.  yerds,  and  he  hathe  grauntyd  me  to  doo,  as  Whetleye 
can  telle  yow  ;  wherffor,  iff  it  please  yow  that  it  be  bystowyd 
ffor  to  make  a  towmbe  ffor  my  ffadre  at  Bromholme,  iff  ye 
lyke  to  sende  it  hyddr,  iffe  it  be  solde  I  undretake  or  Mychel- 
messe,  that  ther  shalle  be  a  tombe,  and  somwhatt  ellys  ovyr 
my  ffadris  grave,  on  whoys  sowle  God  have  mersye,  that  ther 
shall  noone  be  lyke  it  in  Norffolk  ;  and  as  ye  shalle  be  gladde 
herafftr  to  see  it  ;  and  God  sende  me  leyser  that  I  maye  come 
home,  and  iff  1  doo  not,  yit  the  monye  shall  be  putte  to  noon 

^  [From  Fenn,  ii.  260.] 
318 


EDWARD  IV 

Other  use,  butt  kepyd  by  some  that  ye  trust,  tylle  that  it  may  1478 
be  bystowyd  acordyng  as  is  above  wretyn,  and  ellys  I  gyve  may  13 
yow  cawse  nevyr  to  truste  me  whylle  ye  and  I  lyve.  When 
I  was  last  with  yow,  ye  grauntyd  that  the  seyde  clothe  of 
golde  sholde  be  bywaryd  \_spenf\  abowte  thys  werke,  that  is 
above  wretyn,  whyche  iff  ye  wylle  perfforme,  I  undretake  that 
ther  shalle  be  suche  a  towmbe  as  ye  shalle  be  pleasyd  at, 
thowgh  it  cost  me  xx.  marke  off  myn  owne  purse  besyde,  iff 
I  ons  sette  uppon  it. 

No  mor,  but  I  beseche  Goode  have  yow  in  Hys  kepyng. 

Wretyn  at  London,  the  Wednysdaye  in  Whyghtsonweke, 
anno  E,  iiij''  xviij°. 

Please  it  yow  to  sende  me  worde  by  Whatley  off  yowr 
plesyr  her  in. 

By  your  Sone, 

John  Paston,  K. 

WALTER  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  1 

To  his  worchypfull  moder^  Margaret  Paston^  dwellyng 
in  Mawtb)\  be  this  letter  delyveryd  in  hast. 

RYTGH  reverent  and  worchypfull  moder,  I  recomaund  may  19 
me  on  to  yowr  good  moderchypp,  besechyng  yow  to 
geve  me  yowr  dayly  benediccyon,  desyeryng  hartyly 
to  heer  of  yowr  prosperyte,  whych  God  preserve  to  Hys 
plesure,  and  to  yowr  hartys  desyyr,  &c.  I  marvel  soor  that 
yow  sent  me  noo  word  of  the  letter  wych  I  sent  to  yow  by 
Master  Wylliam  Brown  at  Ester.  I  sent  yow  word  that  tym 
that  I  xold  send  yow  myn  exspenses  partyculerly  ;  but  as  at 
thys  tym  the  berar  her  of  had  a  letter  sodenly  that  he  xold 
come  home,  and  there  fore  I  kowd  have  no  leysur  to  send 
them  yow  on  that  wys  ;  and  there  fore  I  xall  wryt  to  yow  in 
thys  letter  the  hool  som  of  my  exspenses  sythyns  I  was  with 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  is  printed  in  Fenn's  fifth  volume,  and 
dated  by  him  in  1478.  I  do  not  know  on  what  evidence  he  assigns  this  particular 
year  to  it,  except  that,  as  he  tells  us  elsewhere,  Walter  Paston  took  a  degree  at  Oxford, 
and  died  in  1479. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1478     yow  tyll  Ester  last  paste,  and  also  the  reseytys,  rekenyng  the 
MAY  19    xxs.  that  I  had  of  yow  to  Oxon  wardys  with  the  Buschopys 
fyndyng. 

The  hool  some  of  reseytys  ys  vli.  xvijj.  vj^.^  and  the  holl 
some  of  exspenses  ys  vj//.  vs.  vd.  ob.  qua.,  and  that  comth 
over  the  reseytys  in  my  exspenses  I  have  borowd  of  Master 
Edmund,  and  yt  drawyth  to  viiji.  And  yet  I  recone  none 
exspenses  sythyns  Ester,  But  as  for  them,  they  be  non  grete; 
and  therfor  I  besech  yow  to  send  me  mony  by  Syr  Richard 
Cotman,  brynger  of  thys  letter,  or  ellys  by  the  next  masenger 
that  yow  kan  have  to  me. 

I  besech  yow  that  he  that  I  sent  by  thys  letter  to  yow  may 
have  good  scher,  yf  he  brynge  yt  hym  selfe,  as  he  telth  me 
that  he  woll,  for  he  ys  a  good  lover  of  myn.  Master  Edmund 
Alyard  recomaund  hym  specyaly  to  yow,  and  to  all  my  brodyrn 
and  systyrs,  and  to  all  yowr  howshold  ;  and  I  besech  yow  that 
I  may  be  recomaundyd  to  all  them  also,  and  specyaly  to  my 
brodyr  John  the  yonger.  No  more  to  yow  at  thys  tym,  but 
AUmythy  Jhesus  have  yow  in  Hys  kepyng.     Amen. 

Wretyn  at  Oxonforth,  on  Seynt  Dunstonys  Day  and  the 
xix.  day  of  May. 

By  your  sonn  and  scoler, 

Walter  Paston. 


J.  WHETLEY  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  the  ryght  wor5h\_yp]full  Sir  John  Paston^  Knyght^  loged  at 
the  sygne  off  the  George  at  Powlys  Wharff,  in  London^  he 
thys  delyverea  in  hast. 

MAY  20    "JP\LEAS  it  your   meastershep   to   understond  the  dealyng 

w^     of  every  thyng,  the  wych  I  was  charged  with  at  my 

departyng  frome  your  measterchep, 

Fyrst,  your  suppena  to  Denton  was  delyvered  by  me  on 

Trenite  Sondaye,  in  hys  parych  cherch,  at  Matens  tyme,  be 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 
320 


MAY  20 


EDWARD  IV 

fFor  the  substans  of  the  parych  ;  and  as  for  Drayton  wod,  it     1478 
is  not  all  down  yet,  but  it  drawes  fast  toward.     I  have  the 
names  of  all  the  mynestres  off  and  in  that  wod,  and  more  schall 
know  or  I  come,  yf  ther  be  any  more  dealyng,  &c. 

And  as  for  Haylysdon,  my  Lord  of  Suffolk  was  ther  on 
Wedensday  in  Whytson  Weke,  and  ther  dined,  and  drew  a 
stew  and  toke  gret  plente  of  fych  ;  yet  hath  he  left  you  a 
pyke  or  ij.,  agayn  ye  come,  the  wych  wold  be  gret  comford  to 
all  your  frendes,  and  dyscomford  to  your  enmys ;  for  at  hys 
beyng  ther  that  daye  ther  was  never  no  man  that  playd  Herrod 
in  Corpus  Crysty^  play  better  and  more  agreable  to  hys 
pageaunt  then  he  dud.  But  ye  schall  understond  that  it  was 
after  none,  and  the  weder  hot,  and  he  so  feble  for  sekenes  that 
hys  legges  wold  not  here  hyme,  but  ther  was  ij.  men  had  gret 
payn  to  kepe  hym  on  hys  fete  ;  and  ther  ye  were  juged.  Som 
sayd  '  Sley  ; '  some  sayd  '  Put  hym  in  preson.'  And  forth 
com  my  lord,  and  he  wold  met  you  with  a  spere,  and  have 
none  other  mendes  for  the  troble  at  ye  have  put  hym  to  but 
your  hart  blod,  and  that  will  be  gayt  v/ith  hys  owen  handes ; 
for  and  ye  have  Haylesdon  and  Dreton,  ye  schall  have  hys 
lyff  with  it.  And  so  he  comford  your  enmys  with  that  word 
that  thay  have  dealed  and  dealeth  with  the  wod,  and  most 
pryncepall  nowe  is  Nycolesse  Ovye.  For  as  for  Ferrer,^  the 
Meare,  he  delys  not  with  owt  it  be  under  covert  ;  for  it  is 
sayd  that  he  be  soght  my  lord  that  he  myght  have  other 
sygnementes  for  hys  money  that  he  had  payd,  for  playnly  he 
wold  deall  no  mor  with  the  wod.  And  so  my  lord  hath  set  in 
the  Bayly  of  Cossay,  and  all  is  doon  in  hys  name  ;  and  as  for 
hys  servauntes,  thay  dayly  thret  my  measter  your  brother  and 
me  to  slay  for  comyng  of  ther  lordes  ground,  and  thay  say 
that  we  made  an  entre  ;  and  thay  beth  answerd  as  ye  comaunded 
me,  for  many  a  gret  chalaunge  make  thay  to  Mester  John, 
both  Measter  Wodhowse,  Wysman,  with  other  dyveres  that 
I  know  not  ther  names  ;  but  he  holdeth  hys  own  that  thay 
gayt  no  grownd  of  hym.      And  thys  he  lettes  thaym  knowe 

1  Corpus  Christi  Day,  the  Thursday  after  the  Octave  of  Whitsuntide,  was  famous 
for  the  acting  of  Mysteries  ,  particularly  at  Chester. — F. 

2  Richard  Farrer,  Farrour,  or  Ferriour,  was  five  times  Mayor  of  Norwich,  namely, 
in  1473,  1478,  1483,  1493,  and  1498.— F. 

VOL.  V. X  321 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1478    that  if  thay  bete  hym  or  any  of  hys,  thay  schall  aby  vj.  for  on, 
MAY  20   and  so  thay  deall  not  but  with  ther  tonges  ;  and  as  yet,  syth 
Ferrer  was  at  London,  there  passes  not  iij.  acres  of  wod  down 
but  thay  cary  fast  for  fere  of  rayn,  &c. 

Also,  sir,  I  trust  to  bryng  or  send  hastely  the  cloth  off 
gold,  for  it  hath  ben  largely  tempted  ;  but  as  yet  I  have  none 
playn  answer,  but  put  in  hope.  Also  I  have  spoken  with 
Popy  for  your  money,  and  delyvered  hym  your  letter,  the 
wych,  as  he  sayth,  is  a  straunge  thyng  to  hym,  for,  as  I 
understond,  he  that  owght  thys  deute  was  uncle  to  thys  yong 
man,  and  he  sayth  that  hys  fader  was  never  exsecutor  to  hym, 
nor  never  mynestred  ;  and  I  told  hym  howe  that  hys  fader 
was  bound  for  the  same  deute,  in  so  mech  and  my  measter 
wold  have  forgevyn  part  of  the  same  deute,  he  wold  have 
payed  it ;  and  so  he  will  be  at  London  thys  terme,  and  speke 
with  you,  and  thys  is  hys  answer. 

Morover  Wyllyam  Worsestre,  mevyd  unto  me  of  onne 
Sir  Wylliam  Bokkyng,  exsecutor  and  brother  to  John  Bokk- 
yng,  the  whych  was  one  of  Sir  John  Fastolf  hys  clerkes,  the 
whych  mater  I  knewe  not,  nor  had  no  comaundement  be  you 
to  deall  therin,  and  so  I  told  hym.  Never  the  lesse  he  sayd 
that  ye  promysed  hym  to  have  sent  your  will  to  have  bene 
done  in  that  mater  by  me,  and  so  he  troweth  that  it  was  owt 
of  your  mynd  at  my  departyng.  Yff  so  be  that  ye  will  any 
thyng  to  be  doon  by  me  or  I  come  to  yow  in  that  mater,  let 
me  have  knowlege  schortly,  for  I  thynk  to  be  with  yow  in  the 
weke  folowyng  aftyr  thys  wry  ten,  with  owt  I  may  have  more 
comford  of  money  then  I  have  yet. 

And  as  for  my  meastres,  your  moder  hath  ben  gretly 
deseased  and  so  seke  that  she  wened  to  have  dyed,  and  hath 
made  her  wyll,^  the  wyche  ye  shall  understond  more  when  1 
come,  for  ther  is  every  man  for  hym  selff.  I  know  not  the 
sercomstance  of  every  thyng  as  yet,  and  therfor  1  writ  no 
more  to  you  therin,  but  I  am  promysed  to  know  or  I  depart 
from  thens. 

1  The  will  now  made  by  Margaret  Paston  was  afterwards  cancelled,  as  that 
which  was  proved  after  her  death  in  1484  was  dated  on  the  4th  of  February  1482, 
21  E.  IV. 

322 


EDWARD  IV 

Also  I  spake  with  William  Barker,  and  he  sayth  that  I  shall    1478 
have  the  stuff  or  I  depart,  or  els  the  monye  agayn  that  he  hade  may  20 
of  WylHam  Pecoke. 

Also,  sir,  as  for  your  lond  be  syd  Bromholm  that  ye  had  of 
Bakton,  it  hath  layn  un  ocupyed  syth  ye  were  ther. 

Moreover,  my  Lord  of  Suffolk^  is  remevyd  in  to  Suffolk 
the  morow  after  that  he  had  bene  at  Haylesdon,  and  my  lady 
purposed  to  remeff  after  on  thys  day.  Corpus  Crysty  Evyn, 
by  the  grace  of  Jesu,  Who  preserve  yow  ever  in  worchep. 

Wryten  at  Norwych,  on  Wedensday  Corpus  Crysty  Evyn, 
anno  E.  iiij''  xviij°. 

Item,  as  for  the  knowleg  that  Ferror  denyed  by  hys  othe 
that  he  knew  never  no  tytle  nor  entrest  that  ye  had  in  and  to 
Haylsdon  and  Dreton,  as  yet  we  can  not  know  ;  but  thys  thay 
will  record  all  that  were  at  the  delyveraunce  of  the  wryt  that 
he  sayd  my  lord  had  promysed  to  save  hym  harmles,  in  so 
mech  that  Wysman  was  bownd  to  Ferrour  to  save  hym  harme- 
les,  and  he  had  for  bryngyng  that  mater  about,  that  Ferrour 
shuld  have  the  wod,  xx5. 

Your  servaunt,         J.  Whetley. 


933 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON^ 

To  the  ryght  worshypfull  Sir  John  Paston^  Knyght. 

1  GREET  yow  well  and  send  yow  Goddys  blyssyng  and  may  27 
myn,  latyng  yow  wete  that  I  have  sent  yow  be  Whetele 
the  clothe  of  golde,  chargyng  yow  that  it  be  not  solde  to 
none  other  use  than  to  the  performyng  of  yowyr  fadyrs 
toombe,  as  ye  send  me  worde  in  wrytyng  ;  yf  ye  sell  yt  to  any 
othyr  use,  by  my  trowthe,  I  shall  never  trost  yow  wyll  I 
leve. 

1  John  de  la  Pole,  Duke  of  Suffolk,  etc.,  married  Elizabeth,  third  daughter  of 
Richard  Plantagenet,  Duke  of  York,  and  sister  of  Edward  iv.  They  both  lie  buried 
at  Wingfield,  in  Suffolk. — F. 

2  [From  Fenn,  ii.  264.] 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1478  Remembyr  that  yt  coste  me  xx"  marke  the  pleggyng  ov/te 

MAY  27    of  yt,  and  yf  I  wher  not  glad  to  se  that  made,  I  wolde  not 

departe  from  it.     Remembyr  yow  what  charge  I  have  had  with 

yow  of  late,  whyche  wyl  not  be  for  my  ease  this  ij.  yer  ;  whan 

ye  may  better,  I  trost  ye  whyll  remembyr  yt. 

My  cosyn  Clere  dothe  as  meche  coste  at  Bromhom  as  whylle 
drawe  an  Qli.  upon  the  deskys  in  the  quere,  and  in  othyr  places, 
and  Heydon  in  lyke  whyse,  and  yf  ther  shulde  no  thyng  be 
don  for  yowyr  fadyr,  yt  wolde  be  to  gret  a  schame  for  us  alle, 
and  in  cheffe  to  se  hym  lye  as  he  dothe. 

Also  as  I  understond  that  my  cosyn  Robert  Clere  thynkyth 
gret  on  kyndenesse  in  delyng  wyth  hym  of  Pecoke,  for  certeyn 
pasture  that  ye  ^  grawntyd  hym  to  have,  and  Pecoke  hath  letyn 
it  to  othyr,  suche  as  he  lyste  to  lete  yt  to,  not  withstondyng 
my  cosyn  hath  leyd  the  pastur  with  hys  catell,  and  Pecok  hathe 
strenyd  them. 

I  thynk  thys  delyng  is  not  as  yt  shulde  be.  I  wolde  that 
iche  of  yow  shulde  do  for  other,  and  leve  as  kynnysmen  and 
frendys  ;  for  suche  servawnts  my  make  trobyll  by  twyxe  yow, 
wheche  wher  a  ageynste  cortesy,  so  nyhe  newbors  as  ye  be,  he 
is  a  man  of  substance  and  worchyp,  and  so  wylle  be  takyn  in 
thys  schyr  ;  and  I  wer  lothe  that  ye  shulde  lese  the  good  wylle 
of  suche  as  may  do  for  yow. 

Item,  wher  as  ye  have  begonne  your  cleyme  in  Heylysdon 
and  Drayton,  I  pray  God  send  yow  good  spede  and  foderance 
in  yit.  Ye  have  as  good  a  season  as  ye  wulde  wysche,  con- 
syderyng  that  yowyr  adversary  standys  not  in  best  favyr  with 
the  Kynge. 

Also  ye  have  the  voyse  in  this  contre,  that  ye  may  do  as 
meche  with  the  Kyng,  as  any  knygth  that  ys  longyng  to  the 
corte.  Yf  yt  be  so,  I  pray  God  contynu  yt ;  and  also  that  ye 
shuld  mary  rygth  nygth  of  the  Qwenys  blood  ;  qwat  sche  ys 
we  are  not  as  certeyn,  but  yf  yt  be  so,  that  yowyr  lond  schuld 
come  agayne  by  the  reason  of  yowyr  maryage,  and  to  be  sett  in 
rest,  at  the  reverence  of  God  for  sake  yt  nowt,  yf  ye  can  fynde 
in  yowyr  harte  to  love  hyr,  so  that  sche  be  suche  one  as  ye  can 

1  Fenn's  literal  text  reads  '  that  be  grawntyd,'  which  seems  to  be  an  error.     In  the 
modern  transcript  it  is  *  that  ye  granted.' 


EDWARD  IV 

thynke  to  have  issu  by,  or  ellys,  by  my  trowthe,  I  had  rather    1478 
that  ye  never  maryd  in  yowyr  JyfFe.  "^^  27 

Also,  yf  yowyr  mater  take  not  now  to  good  effecte,  ye  and 
all  yowyr  frendys  may  repent  them  that  ye  began  yowyr  cleyme, 
with  owte  that  ye  have  take  suche  a  suyr  wey,  as  may  be  to 
yowyr  intent,  for  many  inconvenyens  that  may  falle  ther  of. 
God  send  yow  good  spede  in  all  yowyr  maters. 

Wretyn  at  Mawteby,  the  day  after  Seynt  Austyn  in  May, 
the  xviij.  yer  of  Kyng  Edward  the  iiij'*- 

Be  yowyr  Modyr. 


934 

OXNEAD  PARSONAGE  1 

T'he  comodytys  off  the  parsonage  and  the  valew  off  the 
benyfyce  off  Oxned. 

MY  new  parson  off  Oxned,  whan  he  is  instute  and  inducte,  july  31 
at  the  first  entre  in  to  the  chyrch  and  benefyce  off 
Oxned,  must  off  awncyent  custom  long  contynued 
with  in  the  dyosesse  off  Norwyche,  pay  to  the  byschopp  off 
Norwych,  for  the  first  frutes  off  the  seyd  benefyce,  xiiij. 
marke  ;  for  wyche  xiiij.  marke,  iff  the  new  parson  be  wytty 
and  have  favour  a  bowt  the  Byschops  offycers,  he  schall  have 
days  off  paiment  to  pay  the  seid  xiiij.  marke  in  xiiij.  yere,  that 
is,  a  marke  a  yere,  till  it  be  payd  ;  so  that  he  can  fynd  suffy- 
cyent  mene  to  be  bownd  to  the  Bischopp  be  obligacion  to  kepe 
his  days  off  payment. 

And  the  chyrch  is  but  litill,  and  is  resonable  plesaunt,  and 
reparyd.      [And  the]   dwellyng  place  of  the  parsonage   is  a 

yoynyng    to    the d    well    howsyd    and 

reparyd,  hall,  chamberes,  barn,  doffhowse,  and  all  howsys  oft 
offyce. 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]     The  date  of  this  document  is  shown  by  the  follow- 
ing   mutilated    endorsement :    ' parsonage   of  Oxnede 

made  xxxj.  Julii,  A°  xviij°  E.  ilij''-'      The  first  words  were  doubtless  '  The  value  of,' 
or  something  to  that  effect;  but  the  paper  is  mutilated. 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1478  And  it  hath  a  dofFhowse  worth  a  yere,  xiiijj.  iiij^. 

JULY  31  _/^nd  it  hath  ij.  large  gardens  with  frute,  and  is  yonynge  to 

the  place  and  chyrch  yard,  wher  off  the  frute  is  worth  yerly, 
xxvIj.  vnjii. 

And  ther  longith  to  the  seid  parsonage  in  fre  lond,  arable, 
pasture  and  medowe  ayonyng  to  the  seid  parsonage,  xxij"  acre 
or  more,  wher  off  every  acre  is  worth  i]s. ;  to  latyn  [to  let\ 
iij/z.  iiij^. 

And  William  Paston,  Justice,  qwan  he  ^  cam  fyrst  to  dwell 
in  the  maner  of  Oxned,  paid  to  the  parson  that  was  than  for 
the  corne  growyng  on  the  parsonage  londys  and  for  the 
tythynges,  ondely  but  in  corne  whan  it  was  inned  in  to  the 
barn,  xxiiij/z. 

And  the  same  yere  the  parson  had  all  the  awterage  and 
oder  profytes  be  syde  the  seyd  xxiiij//. 

It  is  yerly  worth,  as  the  world  goth  now,  x//. 

And  it  is  butt  an  esy  cure  to  kepe,  ffor  ther  ar  natt  past 
XX*'  persons  to  be  yerly  howselyd.^ 

The  parsonage  stant  be  a  fresh  ryver  syde. 

And  ther  is  a  good  markett  town  callyd  Alysham,  within 
ij.  myle  off  the  parsonage. 

And  the  cyte  of  Norwych  is  within  vj.  myle  off  the 
parsonage. 

And  the  see  is  within  x.  myle  off  the  parsonage. 

And  if  a  parson  cam  now,  and  warr  presentyd,  institute, 
and  inducte,  he  shuld  have  by  the  lawe  all  the  cropp  that  is 
now  growyng,  that  was  eryd  and  sowyn  off  the  old  parsons 
cost,  growyng  on  the  parsonage  landes  now,  as  his  own  good, 
and  all  the  tyth  off  all  maner  graynys  off  the  maner,  londes, 
and  tenantes  londes,^  towardes  his  charges  off  the  fyrst  frutes. 
And  if  it  ware  innyd  it  war  (the  crop  now  growyng)  *  worth 
his  first  frutes. 

1  '  William  Paston,  Justice,  qwan  he.''  These  words  are  a  correction,  interlined, 
in  the  hand  of  William  Paston,  the  uncle  of  Sir  John.  The  text  stood  originally, 
'  And  my  hosbond  and  I  whan  we.' 

*  i.e.  to  receive  the  sacrament, 

3  Off  the  maner  londes  and  tenantes  londes.  These  words  are  interlined  by 
William  Paston. 

*  This  parenthesis  is  an  interlineation  by  William  Paston. 

326 


EDWARD  IV 

^  He  that  hath  this  benefice,  and  he  were  a  pore  man,  myght     1478 
have  lycens  to  have  service  be  side.  July  31 

The  Beshop  ought  not  to  have  the  valew  of  this  cropp  for 
the  arrerages  of  the  fyrst  fruttes  that  Sir  Thomas  Everard,  last 
parson  of  Oxned,  oght  to  the  Bysshop  v/han  he  died,  for  the 
said  Sir  Thomas  Everard  was  bond  to  the  Bisshop  in  an 
obligacion  for  the  said  frutes,  and  the  said  Sir  Thomas 
Everard,  for  to  defraude  the  Bysshop  and  oder  men  that  he 
owid  mony  to,  gaff  a  way  his  gooddes  to  serten  persons,  qwech 
persons  toke  a  way  the  said  goodes,  and  also  durres  and  wyn- 
dow  of  the  said  parsonage  ;  and  it  is  though  that  both  the 
Bysshop  and  the  patron  myght  take  accions  a  gayns  the  said 
persons. 


935 

ABSTRACT  2 

Presentation  by  Agnes  Paston  of  Richard   Lyncoln,  S.T.P.,  to  the  parish     Aug.  5 
church  of  Oxened,  vice  Thomas  Everard,  deceased. 

London,  5  Aug.  1478. 


1  What  follows  is  in  William  Paston's  hand. 

2  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.] 


END   OF  VOLUME   V 


Printed  by  T.  and  A.  Constable,  Printers  to  His  Majesty 
at  the  Edinburgh  University  Press 


DA 


?/n      ^'aston  letters 

J|^        I'he  I  aston-  letters 

1904. 
V.5 


PLEASE  DO  NOT  REMOVE 
CARDS  OR  SLIPS  FROM  THfS  POCKET 

UNIVERSITY  OF  TORONTO  LIBRARY 


1968 


