

CD 






CO 


o ^a- 


z^ o 


g in 


2 — 0) 


o^^^^. 


^ O 


IS) 




e CD 


==^[^ 


,_. ,, .,-■— 




CO 



HANDBOLND 
AT THE 



tM\ERSITY OF 
TORONTn PRPcc 



(coo, f (^ 



This edition, published by arrangement with 
Messrs. Archibald Constable and Com- 
pany, Limited, is strictly limited to 650 
copies for Great Britain and America, of 
which only 600 sets are for sale, and are 
numbered i to 600. 



No 



Iffi 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

A.D. I422-I509 



K%^'&ri«H^ 



THE 



PASTON LETTERS 

A.D. I422-I509 

NEW COMPLETE LIBRARY EDITION 

EDITED WITH NOTES AND AN INTRODUCTION 

BY 

JAMES GAIRDNER 

OF THE PUBLIC RECORD OFFICE 



VOLUmE IV 




LONDON 2 EXETER 

CHATTO & WINDUS ^ JAMES G. COMMIN 

1904 






Edinburgh : T. and A. Constable, Printers to His Majesty 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

Edward IV 
488 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON 1 

A Lettre to J. Paston^ Armig.,from his wife^ shewing his 
imprisonment in the Fleete? 

RYTH worchepfuU husbond, I recomand me to yow. 1461 
Plesyt yow to wet that I receyvyd yowyr lettyr ''o^* * 
that ye sent me by John Holme on Wednysday last 
past, and also I receyvvd a nothyr lettyr on Fryday at nyt, 

^ [From Fenn, iv. 232.] This letter is ascribed by Fenn to the year 1465, 
in consequence of the allusion to John Paston's imprisonment in the Fleet. But 
there were more occasions than one on which he was confined there. Fenn himself 
knew of two. Paston was committed to the Fleet, as we know from William 
Worcester, on Saturday, the 3rd November 1464. He was also confined there in 
August and September 1465, and may very possibly have been released by the begin- 
ning of November. But I am inclined to think this letter refers to an imprisonment 
prior to either of these. For, in the first place, the news of it seems only to have been 
recent. It had become general subject of conversation at Norwich, * on Saturday last,' 
whereas in 1465 it must have been known two months earlier. Secondly, Sir William 
Chamberlain, whose influence Sir Thomas Howes hopes will be of service, must have 
died in the spring of 1462. According to Blomefield {Hist, of Norfolk, i. 321), his 
will was dated the 3rd March 1461 (which would be in the modern computation 
1462), and was proved on the 21st April 1462. It may be presumed, therefore, that 
on receiving the letter from his brother Clement (No. 484), written on the nth 
October 1461, John Paston hastened up to London and was immediately thrown into 
prison. By this letter, however, we find that he was soon afterwards released, and 
his great enemy Howard sent to prison in his stead. 

2 There is no direction to the letter, but the words above insprted are written in 
an ancient hand upon the back of it. — F. 

VOL. IV. A I 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1 46 1 that ye sent me by Nycolas Newmanys man, of the whyche 
NOV. 2 lettyrs I thane yow ; for I schold ellys a' thowt that it had be 
wers with yow than it hathe be, or schal be, by the grace of 
Almyty God. And yet I kowd not be mery, sethyn I had the 
last lettyr tyll thys day that the Meyir sent to me, and sent 
me werd that he had knowlege for very trowthe that ye wer 
delyveryd owt of the Flet, and that Howard was comytyd to 
ward for dyvers gret compleynts that wer mad to the Kyng of 
hym. It was talkyd in Norwyche and in dyvers othyr plasys 
in the contre on Saterday last past, that ye wer comytyd to 
Flet, and in good feyth, as I herd sey, the pepyle was ryth 
sory ther of, bothe of Norwyche and in the contre. Ye ar 
ryth myche bownde to thank God, and all tho that love yow, 
that ye have so gret love of the pepyll as ye have. Ye ar 
myche behold to the Meyir ^ and to Gylberd,^ and to dyvers 
othyr of the aldyrmen, for feythfully they owe yow good wyll 
to ther porys. 

I have spoke with Syr Thomas Howys for swyche thyngys 
as ye wrot to me for, and he promysyd me that he schold 
labour it aftyr yowyr intent as fast as he kowd ; and in good 
feyth, as my brodyr and Playter kan tell yow, as be hys seying 
to us, he is and wole be feythfull to yow. And as for Wylliam 
Wyrcestyr, he hathe be set so up on the hone, what by the 
parson and by othyr, as my brodyr and Playter schall telle 
yow, that they hope he wole do well i now. The parson seyd 
ryth -well and pleynly to hym. The parson tolde me that he 
had spook with Syr Wylliam Chambyrleyn,^ and with hys 
wyfe, and he thynkyth that they wole do well i now aftyr 
yowyr intent, so that they be plesantly intretyd. The parson 
tolde me that he wyst well that Syr Wylliam Chambyrleyn 
cowd do more ese in swyche matyers as ye wrot of, towchyng 
my Lord of Bedford,* than ony man kowd do that leveyth at 

1 William Norwich was Mayor of Norwich in 1461. 

2 John Gilbert was Mayor in ^459 and in 1464. He died in 1472. 

3 Sir William Chamberlain of Gedding, Suffolk, a Knight of the Garter, who had 
served under the Regent Bedford in the French wars. He married Anne, daughter 
and heir of Sir Robert de Herling, who, though she long survived him, and had two 
husbands after him, the second of whom was John, Lord Scrope of Bolton, was 
buried by her own desire beside her first husband, in the chancel of Herling Church 

♦ John, Duke of Bedford, Regent of France, died at Paris in 1435. — F- 
2 



EDWARD IV 

thys day. Also he tolde me that he felt by hem that they 1461 
wold owe yow ryth good wyll, so that ye wold owe hem good "ov. 2 
wyll. The parson hopyth verily to make yow acordyd when 
he comyth to London. 

Item, my brodyr and Play ter wer with Calthorp * to inquer 
of the mater that ye wrot to me of. What answer he gave 
hem, they schall tell yow. I sent the Parson of Heylysdon ^ 
to Gurnay ^ to spek to hym of the same mater, and he seyth 
feythefully ther was no swyche thyng desyiryd of hym, and 
thow it had be desyiryd, he wold nowthyr a' seyd nor done a 
yens yow. He seyd he had ever fownde you lovyng and 
feythfull to hym, and so he seyd he wold be to yow to hys 
power, and desyiryng me that I wold not thynk hym the con- 
trary. As for John Gros, he is at Slole ; ther for he myth not 
be spok with. 

I pray yow that ye wole send me word whedyr ye wole 
that I schall remeve frome hens, for it begynyth to wax a cold 
abydyng her. Syr Thomas Howys and John Rus schall make 
an end of all thyngys aftyr yowyr intent, as myche as they can 
do ther in this wek, and he purposyth to come forward to yow 
on the Monday next aftyr Seynt Leonardys Day. 

My brodyr and Play ter schold a be with yow er thys tym, 
but that they wold a byd tyl thys day wer past, be cause of the 
schyer. I spok to my brodyr Wylliam as ye bad me, and he 
told me, so God hym help, that he hyryd ij. horse ij. day is be 
for that ye redyn, that he myth a ryde forthe with yow ; and 
be cause that ye spak not to hym to ryde with yow, he seyd 
that he wend * ye wold ^ have had hym with yow. 

Thomas Fastolfys modyr was her on the next day aftyr 
ye wer redyn, to have spoke with yow for hyr sone. Sche^ 

1 ^ry, if Sir William Calthorpe, Knight, High Sheriff of Norfolk, etc., in 
1464, and died very old in 1494. — F. 

2 Thomas Hert was instituted to the Rectory of Hellesdon in 1448. — F. 

3 Thomas Gumey of Norwich, Esq., died in 1471. — F. 

* ' Woud ' in Fenn in the original text, but this is evidently a misprint. The 
right-hand copy reads 'wend,' i^. weened or thought, and the note immediately 
following shows that this was the reading intended. 

* The word 'not' seems here to have been omitted in the original letter. — F. 
•> The word ' He ' occurs in the text before ' Sche,' but is evidently a mistake. 

3 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1 46 1 prayith yow, at the reverens of God, that ye wole be hys good 
NOV. 2 mastyr, and to help hym in hys ryth, that he may have hom 
hys lyvelod owt of ther handys that have had it in hys nown- 
age. Sche seyth that they wold mak hym a yer yonger than 
he is, but sche seyth that he is more thane xxj., and upon that 
sche dare take an othe. 

And the Blyssyd Trynyte have yow in Hys kepyng, and 
send yow good sped in all yowyr matyrs, and send the vyctary 
of all yowyr enmyis. 

Wretyn in hast, on Sowlemas Daye.^ 

By yowyrs, M. P. 

489 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON 2 

To my ryth worchepfull [huslbond^ John Paston, be thys 
delyveryd in hast. 

NOV. 20 I ^ YTH worchepfull husbond, I recomand me to yow. 
rv Plesyt yow to wet that I receyvyd yowyr lettyr that 
ye sent by the gold smyth, as thys day in the morn- 
yng. As for Syr Thomas, he sent me word he schold to yow 
ward as on Twysday last past ; if he fayle ony thyng that ye 
sent word he schold bryng with hym, it is not for no lak of 
remembrans, for I sent to hym thryis or fowyr tymys ther 
for, and that he schold hast hym ther in. As for Rychard 
Call, he was not at home thys fortnyth. When he comyth 
I schall do yowir erendys to hym ; and as for all yowyr odyr 
erendys I schall do hem as well as I can. I sent yow a byll 
yestyrday by old Taverham, and a byll of Jone Gaynys mater, 
the whyche bylle I pray yow may be delyveryd to Thomas 
Playter. I spak to hym of the same mater or he yed hens, 
and I pray yow, if it plese yow, to geve hym yowyr avyse 
what ye thynk is best to do ther in. Sche seyth sche is ryth 

' All Souls', otherwise Soulmas Day, 2nd of November. — F. 

2 [From Paston Mss., B.M.] This letter seems to have been written in 14.61, the 
year of John Paston's great dispute with Ho>vard. 

4 



EDWARD IV 

sory, and if hyr old mastyr demene hym not well to yow sche 1461 
prayith yow that ye wole be hyr good mastyr, and I that sche ^ov. 20 
fare never the werse for hys defawtys. And also I pray yow 
that ye wele be John Lysterys good mastyr in hys mater. He 
spak to Playter ther of, and Playter seyd he hopyd to fynd a 
mene aftyr that he had spook with yow, that schold ese hym 
ther in. I thank yow hertly for yowyr lettyr, for it was to 
me gret comfort to her fro yow. God knowyth my modyr 
and I thowt ryth longe tyll we herd tydyngys fro yow. And 
the blyssyd Trinite have yow in Hys kepyng. Wretyn in hast 
on Seynt Edmundys Day the Kyng. 

By yowyr M. P. 

The pepyll was nevyr bettyr dysposyd to yow than they be 
at this owyr. The byll that Howard hathe mad a yens yow 
and odyr hathe set the pepyll in thys contre a rore. God yeve 
grace it be no werse than it is yet. 

490 

ROGER TAVERHAM TO JOHN PASTONi 

To my reverent and most be trusted maister, John Paston, Esguyer, 
duelling in the Inner Temple^ be this delyvered. 

RYGHT reverent and most be trusted maister, I recom- Year 
maunde me in the most lowly wise un to your good and uncer- 
prevyd maysterchep, and desiring many days to here of tain 
your welfare, whiche I be seche God encrese un to his plesauns 
and un to the prosperite and welfare of your person, and of all 
youres. And I be seche you of the good contynuaunce of 
your maysterchep at divcrses tymes befor this writing shewed 
un to me ; and, sir, ther is non man a Ivye that I trust more to 
than I doo un to you, and I am your bedman, and so shall 

1 [From Fenn, iv. 252.] This letter and the next are placed here merely for con- 
venience. The two are evidently some years apart in point of date, and nothing is 
quite clear about the date of either, except that the latter must have been written in 
the reign of Edward iv., and of course before the death of John Paston in 1466. 
This, which is several years earlier than the other, was almost certainly written in the 
reign of Henry vi. The writer was probably the * old Taverham ' mentioned by 
Margaret Paston in the last letter. 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

Year remayn be the grace of God all the days of myn lifF. And, 
uncer- sir, I suppose I shall never see you no more, nor non of myn 
tain frendes, whiche is to me the grettest lamentacion that myght 
come un to myn herte ; for, sir, by the grace of God, I shall go 
to Rome and in to oder holy places, to spende myn dayes of 
this present lifF in the servise of God. For I hadde lever liffe 
in gret tribulacion in the service of God in this present lifF, 
than for to folowe the wretchednesse of this worlde. 

And, syr, of on thing I be seche specially your good 
maysterchep that ye woUe shew your good maistershep un to 
my fader in tyme of his nede, and that ye wolle recomaunde 
me in the most lowly wise with all reverence un to his good 
faderhode, be sechyng hym that he wole yeff me every day, 
during the dayes of his liff, his paternall blissing. And I have 
marvayle san that I have writen so many letters un to hym be 
for this tyme, that I hadde never non letter ageyn, whiche is 
to me the grettest lamentacion that ever come to my hert ; and 
nowe knowing that I shall never see hym more, nor you, nor 
non other of my frendes, marvayle ye not thow sorowe is 
imprended in myn hert. 

But, reverent maister, myn singuler trust remayneth nowe 
in your person, for, sir, and it please you, I most nedes write 
un to your good maisterchep, in the whiche my most trust 
remayneth. For, syr, and it please you, as for myn inheritaunce 
and other things whiche shulde come to me after the deth of 
my fader, whoes lifF God preserve to his long plesauns, know- 
ing that I shall never com ther, I hadde lever that by your 
good a vise that ye wolde take it unto you, for I hadde lever 
that ye hadde it rather than any person in the worlde during 
my lifF, with all the profites ther of; and if that ye wole make 
as good evidences for you in that partye as ye can, and I shall 
a seale hem. And as you semeth best, and in the most secret 
wise, rewle you in this mater. 

And, sir, I be seche you to recomaunde me in the most 
lowly wise to myn reverent Maister William Lumnour, seyeng 
hym that I am and shall be his perpetuall bedman, and as ye 
thenk best, ye may telle hym of all these maters. And, syr, I 
be seche you to recomaunde me with all reverence un to my 
6 



EDWARD IV 

masteras your wifF, and to all other maysters and frendes ther. Year 
And, sir, that ye wolle thank the bringer of this letter, whiche uncer- 
hathe ben in my gret tribulacion my good frende ; and, sir, tain 
whan ye speke with my fader, recomaunde me un to hym with 
all reverence, and sey un to hym I shall send hym a letter in all 
hast possible. 

And, syr, as for this mater, demene you as ye wolle, and I 
shall doo your plesauns as moche as in me is. And, reverent 
maister, remitte me summe letter by the bringer her of of all 
thes maters, for he duellith with my Lorde, and he is ryght 
moche be trusted, for I knowe wele he wole yef a tendaunce un 
to you for to have summe letter from you ; for, syr, it shall 
not be longe or that I go to Rome, by the grace of God. And 
as sone as I have a letter from you at this tyme, I shall send 
you a noder ageyn. 

No more at this tyme, but the Holy Trinite have you in 
His blissed keping. Wreten at Sarum, the Monday aftyr 
Mydsomer Day. And lete these maters be kept secrete by 
your best a vise. 

Be youre poure servaunt, Roger Taverham. 



491 
ROGER TAVERHAM TO JOHN PASTONi 

To my right wourshipful maister^ John Paston^ 
Esquyer^ he this letter delyvered. 

RIGHT wourshipful maister, I recommaunde me un to H^KO 
your maistership, and I thank your maistership that 
hit pleased your maistership to sende me wourde a yen 
of my letter that I sende you by the brynger herof. Sir, as I 
am enfourmed, ye sent me wourde how that my fader was dede 
long tyme passed, and also ye desired to knowe my titylle of 
ryght. Sir, I am very heyre, by the disceas of my fader, to a 

1 [From Fenn, iv. 258.] The mention of Lord Wenlock in this letter proves that 
it cannot be earlier than 1461 ; but if the writer be, as we have surmised, the 'old 
Taverham' mentioned by Margaret Paston in No. 489, it is most probably of that 
year. 

7 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

I46i(?) place called Keswyk, in Taverham, with all the apportenauncez, 
and that comyth by enherytaunce and discente to me, for I am 
the helder and heyre ; and though my Lorde Cromwell ^ hath 
taken Thomas Taverham, my yonger brother, as warde for the 
same enheritaunce, that maketh no mater to me, in so moche I 
am helder brother. Wher for I beseche you to sende me a 
letter of attournay made to you in my name in the strengest 
wise that ye can, for to entre in to the same lyvelode, and I 
shall asseal that, and than I shall do my service and feaute to 
the seid Lorde Cromwell in all thing as by the tenure of the 
same lyvelode of olde tyme aught to be done. And herin I 
kno well the King shal cause my Lorde Cromwel to do me 
bothe lawe and right ; and also my Lorde Chaunceler, with 
oder Lordes diverse, shall do the same. And, sir, I beseche 
your maistership to do and to take possession in the saide place 
with the apportenaunce in short tyme, for losyng of the rent 
this yer passed. 

And, sir, as for the place of Attylbrigge that my moder in 
lawe now duellith in, sir, your maistershep shal right not 
[naughf] attempte ther now in ; for my Lorde of Warwik ^ 
hath seen how the same place was yeven me by testament by 
Sir Roger Dallyng after the disease of my fader, whiche is redy 
to be shewed. And therupon my Lorde of Warwik hath 
comaunded certeyn gentilmen to entre in the same place, and 
your maistership hadde be moved ther in or this, but for cause 
that ye love wel Lumpnour,^ and that my moder in lawe is his 
sister ; but I kno we wel hit woul cost CCC//., but that she 
shal be dispossedded of that place in short tyme. And, 
maister, how ye woul be rewled in the seid place of Keswyk, 
I be seche you to sende me wourde, as my sengler trust is in 
you ; for and ye woulde not take possession in the saide place, 
my Lorde Wenlok* woulde have that ful fayne, for all the 

' Humphrey Bourchier, Lord Cromwell, so created in 1461. 

2 Richard Neville, Earl of Warwick. 

3 William Lumner, of Mannington, in Norfolk. — F. 

* John Wenlock was created Baron Wenlock in 1461 by Edward iv. ; but he 
afterwards left the York party, and joined that of Lancaster. He was cleft down with 
a battle-axe by the Duke of Somerset for not coming up in time at the battle of 
Tewkesbury in 147 1, whereby that battle was lost. — F. 

8 



EDWARD IV 

contray knowith while that while I leve, I am heyr and non 1 46 i (?) 
other. And therfor I beseche you in all hast sende me wourde 
by the bryngger herof in hast, quia mora trahit periculum. 
And, sir, I would come speke with you. I am seke, and may 
not goo ; but telle the bryngger heroff all your entent. For 
my liiF duryng I hadde lever that ye hadde that place for j^/. 
than a nother man, thow he woulde yefF me meche mony, for 
your maistership ther shewed to me in my yong age. And 
God kepe you, &c. 

Your chapeleyn, Roger Taverham. 

492 

ABSTRACT! 

Richard Calle to John Paston. 

Since I left you I have received at Cotton ^4 : 2s., with which I have made 1 46 1 
purchases of linen shirts, &c. for you. Shall have more money before Christmas, uov. 20 
Debenham, Jenney, nor none of his men * come not there sen' that I was there.' 
A letter of attorney is made for Nakton in your name to Sir John Heveningham, 
and a rental and fermal sent him. We kept a court this week at Calcotte but 
could get little money, not so much as I paid my Lady of Suffolk's officers. 
Farmers will not occupy there till appointment be made between Paston and 
Debenham ; nor Risynge till he hear from Paston. Can get no day for Mautby. 
They will not give a noble, nor even 6 shillings, for a cow. Dey occupies your 
lands there till you come home. Risynge would take them and the closes at 
Castre if he is not to have Calcotte. The prests shall be paid as soon as we get 
money, I hope this week. Wheat 12 J. a comb, barley 8J., malt gd. and lod. 
No good price for malt, ' saving, as we understand, it is good Flanders.' John 
Russe and Robert Glover are sending a ship with corn over, and we have 
ventured with them 1 00 comb malt. You should make some bargain with your 
beer brewers. Can get no money from Aleynes, farmer of Gresham, since ye 
rode, but 4OJ. Has laid in sufficient beef for Paston's household till * Faste- 
gang' (Lent). Sir Thomas Howys advises my mistress not to send Edmund 
Paston to Cambridge or elsewhere till after Christmas. Please ask Clement, 
your brother, to get a writ against Geoffrey Clerk of West Somerton for the 
20J. that Belys gave him to pay Clement. Remember the letter I sent you last 
week. 

Caister, St. Edmund's Day. 

[From what is here said of the levying of rents at Cotton, and from the mention 
of Debenham and Jenney in connection with it, we may presume this letter was written 
in 146 1 . With this supposition agrees the reference to John Paston's brother, Clement, 
who, as we see by No. 4.84, was in London in October.] 

1 [From Paston Mss., B.M.] 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

493 

AGNES PASTON TO JOHN PASTON i 

To John Pastony at London, be this delyverd in hast. 

1 46 1 I grete you welle, and lete you wete that this day Berth' Elys of Paston 

DEC. I come to Norwych to me, and shewet me a rentall for the terme of Seynt Mich., 
the yer of Kyng H. vj. xxxix° ; and in the ende of the seyd rentall, of Waryn 
Kynges hand is wretyn 'Agnes Paston vij^. ob. \j\d.'\. Item, the same Agnes 
for V. acre lond xx^.' Item, Aleyn Bayfeld askyth the same rent for the yer 
last past at Mich. Item, I have knowlech be a trew man that whan Sharpe 
the reseyvor was at Gemyngham last, Waryn Herman was dyvers dayes with 
hym, and put hym in mynde that the mercyment for makynge of the walle 
chuld be askyd ageyn and be distreynyd ther for. Item, I sent you be Doctor 
Aleyns man the restew \residue^ of Waryn Herman, and seche names as 
Cullynge and Sammys putt in of her owyn fre wylle befor John Northales, 
shereve of Norwyche,^ under her sells. God be wit. you and send you 
His blyssyng and myn. Wretyn at Norwych the Tuisday next after Seynt 
Andrew. 

Item, the seyd Berth' Elis seyth that the seyd reseyver wold not alowe 
the rent in Trunche nor the mercyments for my sute to the curt. Gonnor 
wold suffyr no man to answer for me. 

Be your moder, Agnes Paston. 



494 

SIR JOHN HEVENYNGHAM TO JOHN PASTON, 

SENIORS 

To myn ryght ivorchipffull cosyn, John Paston the elder, Esquyer, 
be this letter delivered in hast. 

DEC. 12 Ryght worchipfFull cosyn, I recomaunde me to you in as hertely wyse I 

can, desyryng ever to here off your welfFare, whiche I beseche our Lord Jesu 



* [From Paston Mss., B.M.] The year in which this letter was written is deter- 
mined by the mention of John Northale as Sheriff of Norwich. 

' He was Sheriff of Norwich in the first year of Edward iv. 

' [From Paston MSS., B.M.] This letter is evidently of the same year as No. 492. 
The contents, moreover, seem to show that the date cannot be far distant from that of 
Richard Calle's letter of the ist of February following. 

10 



EDWARD IV 

to preserve to your hertes pleaser, &c. Sir, ye sent me a letter of atorney to 146 1 
reseyve and to ocupye in your name the maner called Burnevyles in Nakton. pgc. 1 2 
Sir, as for that ocupacion, I can litil skylle en, ne I wel not take up on me non 
suche ocupacionis ; wherfFor I beseche you holde me excused, for it is no werd 
[world^ for me to take suche ocupacionis. I have as moche as I may to gader 
myn ownne lyfflode, and truli, cosyn, I can not gader that well. And therfFor, 
cosyn, I pray you take it to non displeaser. Sir, that I may worchepfulli doo 
for you, ye shal fynde me redy be the grace of Jesu, whom I hertely beseche to 
have you in Hise mersyfull kepyng. Wretyn at Hevenyngham on Seynt 
Lucye Even. Be your cosyn, 

John Hevenyngham, knyght. 



495 

ANONYMOUS TO JOHN PASTON^ 

RYGHT M Drchefull master, I recommend me on to yow, I46i(?) 
&c. The cause of my wrytyng is this ; I was at ^^^' 
Blofeld on Sent Andruys Day ^ wyt the person,^ and 
he understode non noder but that I cam to se is master chepe, 
for it was hese cheve day,* and that I mevyd in to hym of the 
lond in Sochewerk, how I hard sey qwan I was in Sochefolk 
that Geney mad hys avaunt that he had zon \_given\ zow and 
hym a choppe of xx. pownd of lond. And in contynent he 
telde me al the mater beter than I cowde telle hym, and as I 
cowde understond in hym be my sympyl wyt, that he was of 
knoleche of alle the mater ; for he seyd that Yelverton cam 
don fro the benche, and plete the mater, and for cause ye 
wer to laches, and cam not in tyme, the mater yede a mys. 
And so I understode be hym that he is dysposyd to excuse 
Yelverton in al materys rather than yow ; but never de les 
make good cher to the person, as thow ye understode that he 
wer your frend, tyl tyme ye have your in tente. But be warr 

1 [From Fenn, iv. 64..] The date of this letter is a little uncertain, but it seems 
to have been written at the beginning of the dispute between Fasten and Yelverton, 
about Fastolf s will, and the year 146 1 appears to me on the whole most probable. 

2 30th November. 

3 Thomas Howes. 

* The day of his chief or patron saint. Blofield Church is dedicated to St. 
Andrew. 

II 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

i46i(?)and trost hym not, but make yow so strong in lorchepe and 
^^^' in the lawe, that ye reeke not meche qwder he be good or 
bad, &c. 

Item, ye be meche be held on to Tomas Grene and 
Edmund Wydewel, broder to Heu a Fen, for thei reporte 
meche worchepe of your master chepe in al maters, and that 
cause the substans of the towne to howe yow servese, and 
be wel dysposyd on to yow masterchepe, and that understonde 
I hevery day. And yf that plese yow, qwan we partyt at 
Norwyche in yowr plase, ye seyd on to me ye wold som qat 
do be my sympyl a wyse ; and this is myn a wyse that in ony 
wyse ye make Heu a Fen and Tomas Grene on your consel, 
yf ye can fyne in yow herte. For I dare sey, as I her and 
understonde, that thei how yow ryth good well and servyse, 
for a man may her be the halfe qwat the hole menyth, and 
therfor for Godds lowe remember yow wel in this mater ; for 
and it stode on myn lyfe, I wold do as I awyse yow, &c. 

Item, for howr Lords love, goo tharow with Wyll Weseter, 
and also plese Chrewys as ye thynke in yow hert best for to 
do ; for it is a comon proverbe, ' A man must sumtyme set a 
candel befor the Devyle ' ; and therfor thow it be not alder 
most mede and profytabyl, yet of ij. harmys the leste is to 
be take. 

Item, ye xul oonderstonde that the parson telde me that 
dey wer somuned to cum for the probat of the testement at 
Convercyon of Sent Powle;^ and therfor I wolde avyse yow in 
ony wyse that ye xuld understond the mater wysely her ye 
com hom, for I sopose that Yelverton and he is confydett and 
acorde to geder. 

Item, qwan I was at Blofeld with the parson, ther cam 
Robert Fyrass to hym, seyyng that he is compeld be the 
Kyngs Commycyoners to have harnes after is degre, and that 
the parson sent hym to my mastras that che xuld delyver hym 
harnes, and I understond che wylle not tylle ye com hom. 
But ye xul understond it is an hjilmes dede to do hym good, 
understondyng is nesessyte and nede that he stond in, and also 
understondyng that he was kynnyes man to my master, and it 

» Jan. 25. 
12 



EDWARD IV 

is a comon proverbe, * A man xuld kepe fro the blynde and 146 1(?) 
gevyt to is kyn ' ; and hevery man wyl sey wel ther of, the dec. 
mor cause he is a gentylman, and of is kyne, and in gret 
penur. And therfor, for the love of God, remembyr seche 
maters. 

No mor at this tyme, but God have yow in Hys kepyng, 
bothe body and sowle, and sqede yow in yowr maters as wel 
as wel as I wolde ye xulde do. 



. 496 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTONi 
To my right wurchepfull husband^ John Paston. 

RIGHT wurchepfull husbond, I recomaund me to you. dec. [3] 
Please it you to wete that myn awnte is dissesid, 
whos sowle God assoyll. And if it please you to send 
word how ye wuU that we do for the lifflode that she had at 
Walcote, wheder ye wuU that any body take possession thir in 
your name or not. And if it like you to have with you my 
cosyn William her sone, I trow ye shuld fynde hym a necessary 
man to take hede to yowr howshold, and to bye all maner of 
stuiFe nedefull therto, and to se to the rewle and gode gidyn 
therof. It hath be told me be for that he can gode skill 
of such thyngs ; and if ye wuU that I send for hym and speke 
with hym ther of, I shall do as ye send me word, for in feyth 
it is tyme to crone your old officers for diverse thyngs wher of 
I have know parte be Dawbeney, and more I shall telle you 
whan ye come hame. 

Also it is thought be my cosyn Elizabeth Clere, and the 
viker ^ and other that be your frends, that it is right necessary 

1 [From Fenn, iv. io6.] Except that it seems to be of the reign of Edward iv., 
the date of this letter is about as uncertain as that of the last ; but as they are both 
written about the same time of year, and both recommend John Paston to use the 
counsel of Hugh Fenn, it is highly probable that they are of the same year. Perhaps 
the last letter may have been written by the vicar mentioned in this. 

2 The vicar of Paston ? Robert Williamson was vicar of Paston at this time. 

13 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

i46i(?)for you to have Hew of Fen to be your frende in your 
DEC. [3] maters ; for he is callid right fey thfull and trosty to his frends 
that trost hym, and it is reported her he may do myche with 
the Kyng and the Lords, and it is seid that he may do myche 
with hem that be your adversaryes : and therfor, Godds sake, 
if ye may have his gode wille, forsake it not. Also it is 
thought the more lerned men that ye have of your owyn 
contre of your councell, the more wurchepful it is to you. 

Also if ye be at home this Cristmes, it wer wele do ye 
shuld do purvey a garnyssh or tweyn of powter vesshell, ij. 
basanes, and ij. hewers, and xij. candlestikes, for ye have to 
few of any of thes to serve this place. I am a ferd to purvey 
mych stufFe in this place till we be suerrer therof. The Blissid 
Trinyte have you in His blissid kepyng. 

Wretyn the Thursday next after Sent Andrew. 

Be yowr M. P. 



497 
MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON 1 

^0 my ryth worchepful husbond^ Jonhn Paston, 
be thys delyveryd in hast. 

146 1 I ^ YTH worchepfull husbond, I recomande me to yow. 

DEC. 29 rx Plesyt yow to wete that I receyvyd the lettyr that 
ye sent me by a man of Seynt Mychell parysche on 
Fryday next aftyr the Consepcion of owyr Ladi ; ^ and anon as 
I had it, I sent my modyr ^ the lettyr because of swyche materys 
as longyd to hyr in that same lettyr. And sythyn that tyme I 
kowd gete no massanger to London but if I wold have sent by 
the Scheryfys men ; and I knew nowthyr her mastyr nor them, 
not whedyr they wer well wyllyng to yow or not ; and therfor 
methowt it had be no sendyng of no lettyr by hem. 

1 [From Paston Mss., B.M.] The date of this letter will appear by comparison 
with No. 500. A few words in the margin of the original letter are illegible, the 
writing having been injured by damp. 

* The Conception of Our Lady was on the 8th December. 

' Margaret always speaks of Agnes Paston as her mother. 



EDWARD IV 

And as for swyche materys as John Geney and Jamys 146 1 
Gresham spak to me, I sped hem as well as I kowd ; and they dec. 29 
bothe told me that ye schold veryly a ben at home before 
Crystmas, and that causyd me that I wrot not to yow now non 
answer. For if I had know that ye schold not have ben at 
home er thys tyme, I schold a sent some man to yow ; for I 
thynk ryth longe tyll I have some god tydyngys fro yow. I 
fer me that it is not well with yow that ye be fro home at thys 
good tyme. And many of yowyr contre men thynk the same ; 
but they be hertty inow to yow-ward, and full fayn wold her 
god tydyngys fro yow. The wer no byllys put to the Scherryf ^ 

at hys beyng her, ner non opyn playnt mad that I of 

no persone, be cawse they had so lyttyll knowlage of hys come- 

yng in to thys contre. He demenyd hym full and 

indeferently, as it was told me, and Yelverton mad a fayir 

sermone at the Sesschyonys, and seyd so that the 

Kyng was informyd that ther was a ryotows felawschep in thys 
contre, wer for the Kyng was gretly dysplesyd, and that the 
Kyng undyrstood well that it was not of ther owne mosyon, 
boot of cownselyng of one or ij. that ben evyll dysposyd folk. 
And also he seyd if ony man wold put up ony byllys of com- 
pleynts of ony extorcion or brybery don be ony men of thys 
contre to them, they wer redy to receyve them, and to make 
a-kord be twyx hem ; and if they cowd not mak the acord, 
that than the schold tak the byllys to the Kyng, and he schold 
set hem thorow. And the Scheryfe seyd that he wold he 

them that wold compleyne and dorste not for fer 

put up ther byllys. 

Ajid Yelverton preyid the Scheryfe that if he had for get 
onythyng that the Kyng seyd to hem at ther departtyng, that 
he wolde rehersyt [rehearse it] ther. And than the Scheryf 
seyd that he had seyd all that he remembryd, save only [that] 
the Kyng .... to hem ij. personys, Syr Thomas Todenham 
and Heydon. And than Yelverton seyd, * A, that is trowthe, 

as th that J[ohn of] Dame told me that he spak 

with the Scheryf aftyrward, and let hym h the 

rewylle [and] demenyng of thys contre, and what cawsyd the 

1 The Sheriff was Sir Thomas Montgomery. 

15 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1 46 1 pepyll for to grwge ayens swyche folkys as had the reuyll be 
DEC. 29 fortyme ; and he was pleyne to hym in many thyngys, as he 
told me ; and he fond the Scheryfe ryth pleyne ayen to hym, 
and well dysposyd in that that myth growe to the welfar of the 
schere. The Scheryfe seid he undyrstood by swyche informa- 
cion as he had, syns he came into thys contre, that they had 
not all gydyd hem well that had the rewyill of thys contre be 
for ; and therfore he seyd feythfully, and swore by gret othys 
that he wold nowthyr spar for good, nor love, nor fer, but that 
he wold let the Kynge have knowlage of the trowthe, and that 
he wold do asmyche for thys contre as he cowd or myth do to 
the welfare therof, and seyd that he lekyd the contre ryth well. 
And John of Dame seyd if the contre had had knowlage of 
hys comyng, he schold have had byllys of compleyntes and 
knowlage of myche more thyng than he myth have knowlage 
of that tyme, or myth have because of schort abyng ; and he 
seyd he wold not be longe owt of thys contre. 

And also Yelverton seyd opynly in the Seschyons they to 
come downe for the same cause to set a rewyll in the contre. 
And yet he seyd he woste well that the Kynge myth full evyll 
have for bor ony of hem bothe ; for- as for a knyth ther was 
none in the Kyngys howse that myth werse a be for bore than 
the Scheryfe myth at that tyme. I have myche mor to wryt to 
yow of than 1 may have leyser at thys tyme ; but I troste to God 
that ye schall be at home yowyr selfe in hast, and than ye schall 
knowe all. And but if ye come home in haste, I schall send 
to yow ; and I pray yow hertly, but if ye come home, send me 
word in hast how ye do. And the blyssyd Trinyte have yow 
in hys kepyng. Wretyn in hast on Seynt Thomas day in 
Crystmas.^ 

By yowyr, Margaret Paston. 

Here was an evyll rewlyd felawschep yestyrday at the schere, 
and ferd ryth fowle with the Undyr Scheryfe, and onresnably 
as I herd sey. 

^ The day of St. Thomas of Canterbury (Becket), 29th December. 
16 



EDWARD IV 



498 

RICHARD CALLE TO JOHN PASTONi 

To my right reverent and my moost wurschipful 
maystre^ my Maystre John Pas ton. 

RIGHT wurshipfull and my mooste reverent mastre, I 1461 
recomaunde me unto your goode maystreship. Like °^^- ^9 
you to witte that on Childremasse daye ^ there were 
moche people at Norwich at the shire, be cauce it was noyced 
in the shire that the Undresheriff had a writte to make a newe 
aleccion ; wherfore the people was greved be cauce they had 
labored so often, seying to the Sheriff that he had the writte, 
and pleynly he shulde not a wey unto the tyme the writte were 
redd. The Sheriff^ answerd, and seyd that he had no writte, 
nor west who had it. Heruppon the people peacyd, and stilled 
unto the tyme the shire was doone, and after that doone, the 
people called uppon hym, ' Kylle hym ! Heede \behead~\ hym ! ' 
And so John Dam, with helpe of other, gate hym out of the 
schire-hows, and with moche labour brought hym unto Sporyer 
Rowe ; * and ther the people mett a yenst hym, and so they a 
voided hym unto an hows, and kept fast the dore unto the 
tyme the meyer was sent fore, and the Sherif, to strenght hym, 
and to convey hem a wey, or ell he had be slayne. Wherfor 
divers of the thrifty men came to me, desiryng that I shulde 
writte unto your maistreship to lete you have undrestandyng 
of the gidyng of the people, for they be full sory of this 
trowble ; and that it plese you to sende hem your advice how 
they shal be gided and rwled, for they were purposed to a 
gathered an c. or cc. of the thriftyest men, and to have come 
up to the Kyng to lete the Kyng have undrestandyng of ther 
mokkyng. And also the people fere hem sore of you and 
Mastre Berney,^ be cauce ye come not home. 

1 [From Fenn, iii. 1 50.] The contents of this letter clearly refer to the matter 
alluded to in the postscript of the preceding letter of Margaret Paston, so that the date 
must be the same. 2 28th December. ^ sir Thomas Montgomer)'. 

* Spurrier Row, as I am informed by Mr. L'Estrange, was what is now called 
London Street. 5 John Berney of Witchingham. 

VOL. IV. B 17 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1 46 1 Plese you that ye remembr the bill I sent you at Hallow- 

DEc. 29 messe for the place and londs at Boyton weche Cheseman had 
in his ferme for v. mark. Ther wol no man have it above 
xlvj*- viij*^-, for Alblastre and I have do as moche ther to as we 
can, but we can not go a bove that. And yet we can not lete 
it so for this yere, with owte they have it for v. or vj. yere. I 
wrote to your mastreship herof, but I had non answre ; wherfor 
I beseche you that I may have an answere of this be Tlwelthe, 
for and we have an answre of this be that tyme, we shall enfefFe 
hem with all, &c. 

My right wurshipfuU and my moost reverent maistre, 
Almyghty Jesu preserve you, and send you the victorye of 
your elmyes, as I truste to Almyghty Jesu ye shall. Wreten 
at Norwich on Seyn Thomas daye after Cristemasse daye. 

Your pore servant and bedman, R. Call. 

499 

RICHARD CALLE TO JOHN PASTON 1 

To my moost reverent and nvurshipfful mastre, my Master John 
Paston of the Enner Temple^ this be delyvered. 

Plesith your maystership to undrestande that as for the ferme that Cheseman 
had in Boyton, that is to sey, xl. acre lond erable, j. medwe, and other smale 
parcell, payng yerly for it iiij/r., weche I can not lete the xl. acre lond abowe 
xl. comb barly or xIj., and ye to here al charges of the reparaucion and fense 
aboute the place, weche shulde be gret cost. The lond is so out of tylthe that 
a nedes \uneath, i.e. scarcely] any man wol geve any thyng for it. Ther can 
no man lete it to the walwe that it was lete before, and that I reporte me to my 
-master. Sir Thomas Howys, not be gret gold. Wherfore I wol not do therin 
unto the tyme that I have answere from your mastership, weche I beseche you 
it may be hast. And as for Spitlynges, I have lete som of the lond in smale 
parcell, because I cowde gete no fermor for it. And as for Sir T. H., in good 
feythe I fynde [him] weele disposed in all thynges, excepte for Sir W. Chamber- 
leyn for Rees in Stratton. And so the blissid Trinite preserve and kepe you 
from all adversite. Wrete at Blofeld, the Thorsday next after Hallowmesday. 
Your pore servaunt and bedman, R. Calle. 

1 [From Paston mss., B.M.] The date of this letter is uncertain. Its contents 
are mere matter of business, and as relating to the same farm mentioned in the last 
may be supposed to belong to the same year, especially as in the last Calle mentions 
having written to Paston on the subject ' at Hallowmass.' There is, however, a dis- 
crepancy in the value assigned for the farm. 

18 



EDWARD IV 

500 

THOMAS PLAYTER TO JOHN PASTONi 

To John Past on J the older ^ in hast^ and if he he not at London^ 
than to be delyvered to Clement Paston in hast. 

IYKE your maisterchip wete that at the last cessyons 146 1 
Erpyngham hundred and other hundredys ther aboute dec. 
-V were not warned, and the schrefF excused hym be 
cause he cowde not knowe who was officer there. Item, 
Yelverton lete the pepoU understand that the Kyng wold have 
his lawes kept, and that he was dysplesed with the maner of 
ther gaderyng, and that he wold have it amendyd ; for he con- 
ceyveth that the hole body of the shire is well dysposed and 
that the ille dysposed pepoU is but of a corner of the hole 
shire ; and yet that ther mysdoyng growyth not of ther owyn 
dysposysyon but of the abbettement and steryng of sum ille 
dysposed persones whiche is understand and knowe to the 
Kynges hygthnesse. Item, he lete hem wete that the Kyng 
had commandyd hym to sey if ther were any man, pore or 
ryche, that had cause to complayne of any person that he 
schuld put up his bylle to the shref and hym, and they schuld 
set a reule be twyx hem ; and if he wold not abyde ther reule 
they schuld delyver the sayd bylle of compleynt to the Kynges 
hignesse, and he schuld set the rewle and suche dyreccion that 
the party compleynaunt or defendaunt schuld be punysshed for 
his dysobeysauns of the said rewle if the case requyred ; and 
also more over, if ther were ony person that put up ony suche 
bylle, and it mygth apere to them by ther examinacion or other 
wyse fals or untrewe, or elles be cause of malyce, that than 
suche compleynaunts schuld sharpely be punysshed. And than 

1 [From Paston Mss., B.M.] The mention of Tuddenham and Heyden in this 
letter proves that it cannot be of later date than the year 146 1, as the former was 
executed in February 1462. At the same time the reference to John Paston, Junior, 
could not be much earlier, and the message from the King to the people of Norfolk 
certainly could not have come from Henry vi. only a year or two before. The 
date must therefore be 1461 precisely. 

19 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1461 whan he had sayd this and moche more, in dyscoragyng to the 
DEC. pepoU to put bylles, as after my conseyt, he reported hym to 
the schref ther present, that the Kyng thus comanded hem thus 
to sey, desyreng the said schref if ony thyng of the Kyngs 
comaunded were be hynd unspoken by hym self that he wold 
remembre and helpe forthe to telle it. And than the schref 
said, lyke as he rehersed the Kyng comanded, and more over 
that the Kyng named ij. men, by name Tudenham and Hay don, 
and if ony man wold put bylles a yens them, he said in feyth- 
fuU wyse he wold help hem, and ferther the mater to the Kyng 
higthnesse. And for his demenyng ther every man thougth 
hym rigth wel dysposed ; but Yelverton had for yeten to 
expresse the names of Tudham and Haydon. 

Item, the schref desyred the jentylmen to go with [him] to 
Felbryg Halle, and specially he requyred Mr. John P., the 
younger ; but he cowde no pepoU gete, and so he cam not 
there. Item, there was a bylle set up on the shirehous dore, 
and the content ther of was but of the favour to you ward, 
Barney, Knyvet and Felbrygge, and of the hatered of other ; 
it was but of sum lewde dysposed person it semeth. Item, sir, 
at the last shire was moche pepoU and ille governed for they 
wold not be rewled be no body, they had almost a slayne the 
underschref, for they told hym wryttes of eleccion was sent 
doun and he kept it on syde to be gyle hem, and to make hem 
labour ayen, and ther for he that kepyth it is to blame, me 
thynketh. Item, sir, please you to telle Mr. Clement, we 
have goten a reles of al maner accions and appelles of Margret 
Clerk, made to Gymmyngham, on of the pryncypalles, and 
that he woll inquyre wheder it be suffycyant for alle, and send 
me word, and weder it dyvers fro trespas and dette, wher 
damages is to be recovered, for in this appell is no damages 
to be recovered, but only an execucion, whiche non of them 
may be contributory to other execucion as is in other cases. 
Nevertheles, I hope it be sufficiant for all, for sche is in the 
cas to have the lyf in stede of damages. 

Your Thomas Pl. 



20 



EDWARD IV 

501 

ANONYMOUS TO MARGARET PASTONi 

7*0 my right worchepfull Mastres Paston. 

1RECOMAWNDE me to your good mastreschep, besech- i46i(?) 
yng yow in the weye of charyte, and as I maye be your 
bedeman and servaunt, that ye wyll lete me have wetyng 
hoghe I maye be rewelyd ageyns the next schyer. It is seyd 
that ther xal be mych more pepyll than was the last ; and also 
if I be in my Ladys place, or in ony other in the town, I xall 
be takyn owte. Also, mastres, that my Maystyr Radclyffs 
xal take all my catell and all other pore good that I have, and 
so but I maye have helpe of my mayster and of yow, I am but 
lost. Also my servaunt Maryot wyll go fro my wyfe to my 
ryght gret hurte. Wherfore, mastres, I besech your help in 
all thes, and I xal content the costs as ye xall be plesyd, be 
the grace of God, hoo ever preserve yow, &c. 

Also, mastres, I can not be with owte your contynuall 
help, but I must selle or lete to ferme all that I have. 

Mastres, my Lady sent to Cawnbrygg for a doctour of 
fesyk. If ye wyll ony thyng with hym, he xal abyde this daye 
and to morwe. He is ryght a konnyng man and gentyll. 

1 [From Fenn, iv. 104.] This letter appears to have been addressed to Margaret 
Paston at a period when her husband was a man of some influence, and perhaps the 
year 146 1 is not far from the true date. It is not unlikely to have been written about 
the same time as No. 500, which also refers to a meeting at the shire or county 
court. 



21 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

502 

ELIZABETH MUNDEFORD TO JOHN PASTON 1 

To my right worchipfull sir, and my right good neveUy 
John Fasten, Squyer^ be this lettre delyvered, ^c. 

146 1-6 I *% IGHT worchipfull sir, and my right good heveu, I 
r^ recomand me un to you with all myn herte. Piece 
^ it you to undyrstande the grete nessessyte of my 

wrytyng to you is this, that ther was made an exchaunge be 
the graunsyre of my hosbonds Mundeford, un hose sowle 
God have mercy, of the maner of Gressenale with the aun- 
setrys of Rows for the maner of Estlexham, the qwych is 
parte of my juntor, and my grauntfadyr Mundeford recoweryd 
the said maner of Estlexham be assyze ^ a geyne the aunsetrys 
of Rows, and so madyt clere ; and nowe have Edmund Rows ^ 
claymyt the seyd maner of Estlexham be the verteu of a tayle 
\an entair\, and hathe takyn possesseon, and made a feffement 
to my Lord of Warewyke,* and Water Gorge,^ and to Curde.^ 
And un Fryday be for Seynt Walentyne is Day Water Gorge 
and Curde enteryd and toke possessyon for my seyd Lord of 
Warewyke, and so bothe the forseyd manerys were ontayled, 
and at the tyme of the exchaunge made, the tayles and evydens 
of bothe for seyd manerys were delyvered un to the partyes 
indeferently be the avyse of men lernyd. Qwcrfor I beshech 
you that it plese you to take the grete labor upon you to 

1 [From Fenn, iv. io8.] The date of this letter must lie between the years 1461 
and 1466. The writer's husband, who is spoken of as dead, was put to death in June 
1460, and John Paston, the person addressed, died in May 1466. 

2 Assize is a writ directed to the sheriff of the county for recovery of the possession 
of things immovable, whereof yourself or ancestors have been dispossessed. — F. 

3 Edmund Rous was second son of Henry Rous, Esq. of Dennington, in Suffolk, 
the ancestor of the present Earl of Stradbroke. 

* Richard Neville, Earl of Warwick. 

^ Walter Gorges, Esq., married Mary, the daughter and heir of Sir William Old- 
hall, and was at this time Lord of the Manor of Oldhall, in Great Fransham. He 
died in 1466. His son and heir, Sir Edmund Gorges, afterwards married a daughter 
of Sir John Howard, Knight, the first Duke of Norfolk of that family. — F. 

* John Curde was Lord of the Manor of Curde's Hall, in Fransham. — F. 

22 



EDWARD IV 

informe my Lordys good Lordchep of the trowthe in the 1 461-6 
forme a bowyn wreten, and that it plese you to undyrstand 
qwedyr that my Lord wyll a byde be the feiFment made to 
hym or not ; and that it shall plese my Lord that I may have 
right as la we requeryt, for I trust to God be soche tyme as my 
Lord shall be informyd of the trowthe be you, that hese Lord- 
chip wyll not supportt the forseyd Rows a geyne my right. 
And if I hadde very undyrstandyng that my Lord would take 
no parte in the mater a bowe seyd, I would trust to Godds 
mersy, and to you, and other of my good fryndes, to have 
possession a geyne in right hasty tyme, beshechyng you to 
pardon me of my symple wrytyng, for hadde no leyser. 
Right worchipfull and my right good neveu, I beshech the 
Blyssed Trenyte have you in Hese gracyous kepyng. 

Wreten at Norwych in gret hast, the Tewysday aftyr Seynt 
Walentyne is Day. 

Youre ouyn, Elizabeth Mundeford.^ 



SIR ROBERT WILLIAMSON TO AGNES PASTON^ 

To my right reverent mastras, Agnes Paston^ 
be this lettre delyveryd in haste. 

RYGH wurchepful mastres, I recomaund me un to yow, 1460-4 
thankyng yow of the gret chere that ze made me 
the last tyme that I was with zow. Mastres, in alle 
zour godys and ocupacyons that lyth in my simpil power to 
do in wurd, wil and dede, I have do my dylygens and my 
power therto, so I be savyd be fore God, and have owyn to 
your person ryght herty love ; for the qwych I am ryght ille 

1 Elizabeth Mundeford was the widow of Osbert Mundeford, Esq. of Hockwold, 
in Norfolk, and was daughter of John Bemey, Esq., by which means she was aunt to 
J. Paston.— F. 

2 [From Fenn, iii. 48.] The writer of this letter was Vicar of Paston from 1460 
to 1464, and as he dates from Bromholm, which is in the immediate neighbourhood 
of Paston, we may presume that it was written during the time he held that benefice. 

43 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1460-4 aqwyt, and it be as I understande yt ; for it is do me to wete 
that I am swid with mor of my paryshchons for a reskuse 
makyng up on the offycers of the shrewys [sheriff^ and I 
take God to record that it is wrongfully do on to us. And 
the gret fray that the \_they] mad in the tyme of masse it 
ravyched my witts and mad me ful hevyly dysposyd. I pray 
Jesu gef hem grace to repent hem therof that the [^they] that 
caused it may stand out of perel of soule. 

Maystras, at the reverens of God, and as evyr I may do 
servyce that may be plesyng on to yow, send me justyly wurd 
be the brynger of this bylle ho ze wil that I be gydyd ; for it 
is told me that if I be take I may no other remedy havyn but 
streyth to prison. For the whiche I have sold away xxs. wurth 
of stuiFe ; and the reswd \_residue'] of my stuff, I have put it in 
swier hande, for trwly I wil not abyde the joparte of the swth, 
— I have levir to go as far as my fet may ber me. Nevir the 
less as ze komand me to do, so it be not to my gret hurt, I 
wil fulfille it. Nomor to zow at this tyme, but God send yow 
that grace that ze may kome to His blyss. 
Wreten at Bromholm in gret haste. 

Be your Sir Robert Willyamson. 



504 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON 1 

<j'o my ryth worchepfull hushond^ John Paston^ 
be thys delyveryd in hast. 

1402 I -% YTH worchepfull husbond, I recomand me to yow. 

JAN. 7 1^ Plesyt yow to wet that I sent yow a lettyr by my 

cosyn Barneys man of Wychyngham wyche was 

wretyn on Seynt Thomas Day in Crystmas,^ and I had no 

tydyngys nor lettyr of yow sene the wek before Crystmas ; 

^ [From Paston mss., B.M.] The contents of this letter clearly show that it was 
written in January 14.62, nine days after No. 497. 
2 See No. 4.97. 
24 



EDWARD IV 

wher of I mervayle sore. I fere me it is not well with yow be 1462 
cawse ye came not home or sent er thys tyme. I hopyd verily Jan. 7 
ye schold have ben at home by Twelthe at the ferthest. I pray 
yow hertly that ye wole wychesave to send me word how ye 
do as hastly as ye may, for my hert schall nevyr be in ese tyll 
I have tydyngys fro yow, Pepyll of this contre begynyth to 
wax wyld, and it is seyd her that my Lord of Clarans and the 
Dwek of Suthfolk and serteyn jwgys with hem schold come 
downe and syt on syche pepyll as be noysyd ryotous in thys 
contre. And also it is seyd here, that there is retornyd a 
newe rescwe up on that that was do at the scher. I suppose 
swyche talkynge comyth of false schrewys that wold mak a 
rwmor in this contre. The pepyll seyth here that they had 
levyr go up hole to the Kynge and compleyne of siche false 
screwys as they have be wrongyd by a fore, than they schold be 
compleynyd of with owt cause and be hangyd at ther owne 
dorys. In good feyth men fere sore here of a comone rysyng 
but if [i.e. unless] a bettyr remedy may be had to a pese the 
pepyll in hast, and that ther be sent swyche downe to tak a 
rewyll as the pepyll hathe a fantsy in, that wole be indeferent. 
They love not in no wyse the Dwke of Sowthfolk nor hys 
modyr. They sey that all the tretourys and extorsyonerys 
of thys contre be meynteynyd by them and by syche as they 
get to them with her goodys, to that intent to meynten suche 
extorsyon style as hathe be do by suche as hathe had the 
rewyll undyr them be fore tyme. Men wene, and the Dwke 
of Sowthfolk come ther scholl be a schrewd reuell but if [unless'] 
ther come odyr that be bettyr belovyd than he is here. The 
pepyll feryth hem myche the more to be hurt, because that ye 
and my cosyn Barney come not home ; they sey they wot 
welle it is not well with yow and if it be not well with yow, 
they sey they wot well, they that wole do yow wronge wole 
sone do them wronge, and that makyth them all most mad. 
God for Hys holy mersy geve grace that ther may be set a 
good rewyll and a sad in this contre in hast, for I herd nevyr 
sey of so myche robry and manslawter in thys contre as is 
now within a lytyll tyme. And as for gadyryng of mony, I 
sey nevyr a werse seson, for Rychard Calle seyth he can get 

25 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1462 but lytyll in substans of that is owyng, nowthyr of yowyr 
JAN. 7 lyvelod nor of Fastolfys th'eyr. And John Paston scyth, 
they that may pay best they pay werst ; they fare as thow 
they hopyd to have a newe werd [world]. And the blyssyd 
Trinite have yow in Hys kepyng and send us good tydyngys 
of yow. 

Yelverton is a good thredbare frend for yow and for odyr 
in thys contre, as it is told me. 

Wretyn in hast on the Thorsday nex aftyr Twelthe. 

By yowyr Margaret Paston. 



MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON 1 

JAN. 27 I -% YTH worchepfull husbond, I recomand me to yow. 
r^ Plesyt yow to wet that Perse was delyveryd owt [of] 
preson by the generall pardon that the Kvnge hathe 
grantyd, whyche was opynly proclamyd in the Gyld Hall. A 
none as he was delyveryd he cam hedyr to me, God wote in 
an evyll plyte, and he desyiryd me wepyng that I wold be hys 
good mastres and to be mene to yov/ to be hys good mastyr, 
and swore sore that he was nevyr defawty in that ye have thowte 
hym defawty in. He seyd that if ther wer ony coyne in the cofyr 
that was at Wylliam Tavernerys it was ther withowt hys know- 
lage, for hys mastyr wold nevyr lat hym se what was in that 
cofyr, and he told me that the keyis wer sent to Thomas Holler" 
by mastyr John Smyth. What Holler leyd in or took owte he 
wot not as he sweryth. He ofiyrd me to be rewiyd as ye and 1 
wold have hym, and if I wold comand hym, to go ageyn to. 
preson, whedyr I wold to the Castyll or to the Gyld Hall, he 
wold obey my comandment. And seth that he came of hys 
owne fre wyll withowt ony comandment of ony man or desyir, 

' [From Paston Mss., B.M.] This letter relates to the prisoner Piers mentioned 
in Nos. 423, 424, and 426. He seems to have been delivered by a general pardon 
issued at the commencement of the reign of Edward iv. The letter bears no address. 
It is endorsed, but in a much later hand : — * A Icttre to J. Paston, Ar., from his 
wife.' 

* He was John Bemey's executor. 

26 



EDWARD IV 

I seyd I wold not send hym ageyn to preson, so that he wold 1462 
abyde yowyr rewyll when ye came home. And so he is here Jan- 37 
with me and schall be tyll ye send me word how ye wole that 
I do with hym. Where fore, I pray yow that ye wole lete me 
have knowlage in hast how ye wole that I do with hym. 

Item, I have spok with John Dame and Playter for the 
lettyr testymonyall, and John Dame hathe promysyd to get it, 
and Playter schall bryng it to yow to London. Item, I have 
purveyd yow of a man that schall be here in Barsamys sted 
and ye wole, the wyche can bettyr cherysch yowyr wood, bothe 
in fellyng and fensyng there of than Barsam can ; and he 
schall mak yow as many hyrdyllys as ye nede for yowyr fold, 
of yowyr owne wood at Drayton, and schall tak as lytyll to 
hys wagys as Barsam dothe ; and he is holdyn a trew man. 
Item, Playter schall tell yow of a woman that compleynyd to 
the Dwk of Sowthefolk of yow, and the sey[d] Playter schall 
tell yow of the demenyng and answeryng of the scheryfe for 
yow, and also of the demenyng of the seyd Dwke, and of 
othir materys the wyche wer to longe mater to put in wryttyn. 
The pepyll of that kontre be ryth glad that the day yed [weni] 
with yow on Monday as it ded. Ye wer nevyr so welcome in 
to Norfolk as ye schall be when ye come home, I trowe. And 
the blyssyd Trynyte have yow in Hys kepyng. Wretyn in 
hast on Wednysday next aftyr Seynt Augnet the Fyrst. 

By yowyr M. P. 

Item, Ric. Calle told me that he hathe sent you a answer 
of all erands that ye wold shuld be do to Sir Thomas Howes. 
Sir Thomas Howes cam nowther to me nor sent syn that he 
cam home from London. 

Will Worceter was at me in Cristemes at Heylysdon, and 
he told [me] that he spake with you dyvers tymys at London 
the last terme ; and he told me that he hopyd that ye wolle 
be hys good master, and seyd he hopyd ye shuld have non 
other cause but for to be hys god maister. I hope and so do 
my moder and my cosyn Clere, that he wolle do well inowe, 
so that he be fayre fare with Dawbeney and Playter. Avise 
me to lete Peers go at large and to take a promys of hym to 

27 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1462 com to me a mong unto your comyng horn, and in the mene 
JAN. 27 while his demenyng may be knowyn and espyed in mo thyngs. 



506 

JOHN DOWBIGGING TO JOHN PASTON ^ 

To the ryght reverent and worship sir, John Paston, sum tyme 
Lord of Gresham, and 7iow fermour therof, as hit is seide. 

PERYS of Legh come to Lynne opon Cristynmesse Even 
in the fresshest wise, and there he dyned so as was ; 
hot when my Lorde of Oxenforde herde hereof he with 
his feliship and suche as I and other your presoneres come 
rydyng unto Lynne, and even unto the Bysshop gaole where 
the seid Perys dyned with other of his feliship. My Lorde 
pulled hym oute of the seid gaole and made to kest hym opon 
an horse, and tyed an halter by his arme, and so ledde hym 
furth like hym selfF. A.nd even fur th with the seid Bysshop, 
the Mair, and other their feliship mette with my seide Lorde 
and your presoneres, and also the seide Perys tyed by an 
halter, the Bysshop havyng thies wordes unto my Lorde with 
his pillion ^ in his handes, ' My Lordes, this is a presoner, ye 
may knowe bv his tepet and staff. What will ye do with 
hym ? ' Therto my Lorde seide, ' He is my presoner nowe.* 
Wherto the Bysshop seid, ' Where is youre warraunt or com- 
mission therto ? ' My Lorde seide, ' I have warraunt sufficiaunt 
to me.' And thus they departed, the Mair and all the 
cominaltie of Lynne kepyng theire silence. Bot when we 
weren goon, and Perys of Legh fast in Rysyng Castell, then 
the yates of Lynne, by the Bysshop comaundement weren fast 
sperred [j/^«/] and keped with men of armes. And then the 

1 [From Paston Mss., B.M.] This letter is evidently earlier in date than the last, 
and may perhaps have been w^ritten at the close of the year 1460, but as it refers to the 
same prisoner as the preceding No. vre place it here for convenience. It is printed in 
the fifth volume of Fenn's edition as a letter of Henry vii.'s time owing to a mis- 
reading of the address, v^hich might easily convey the impression that it was directed 
to ' Sir John Paston.' 

2 The hat worn by a Doctor of Divinity. 

28 



EDWARD IV 

Bysshop and his squyers rebuked the IVTair of Lynne and seid 
that he hade shamed both hym and his toun for ever, with 
muche other langage, &c. 

The Bysshop shulde have keped his Cristenmesse at Gay- 
wode, bot yet he come not oute of Lynne. In faith, my 
Lorde dyd quyte hym als curageousely as ever I wist man do. 
The Bysshop come to the toun with Ix. persones the same 
tyme, and made to sper the yates after hym, bot when we 
mette, ther bode not with hym over xij. persones atte the 
most, with his serjaunt of armes ; whiche serjaunt was fayn 
to lay doun his mase ; and so atte the same yates we come in 
we went oute, and no blode drawen, God be thanked. 

Yf ye will any thyng atte I may do, send me worde ; hit 
shall be doon to my power, &c. Comaunde me to my 
maistresse your wyff, &c. And yf ye dar joperdie your 
suyrtie of C. marc I shall come and se you. And elles have 
me excused, for, &c. 

From your oune, 

John Douebiggyng. 



507 

RICHARD CALLE TO JOHN PASTON ' 

To the ryght reverent and my mooste 'worschipful master^ my 
Master John Paston^ in the Inneer Tempyll. 

Plesith it your maisterschip to witte that I have been at Burnewyll in 1462 
Nacton to receyve the rentes and fermys of the tenauntes. And I undrestande feb. i 
be them, and be Robert Goordon that Mastre Jenney whas there and helde a 
coorte on the Mondaye next aftre Tlwelthe, and warned the tenauntes that they 

1 [From Fasten Mss., B.M.] The manor of Bumeviles in Nacton, near Ipswich, 
was part of the lands of Sir John Fastolf which Paston inherited by his will ; but his 
claim was disputed by Jenney, one of the executors. As Jenney is here said to have 
complained that his fee was two years in arrear, we may presume that it was little 
over two years since Fastolfs death when this letter was written. For further 
evidences of date compare No. 494. It may also be observed that we find undoubted 
evidence that John Paston was residing in the Inner Temple six weeks later {see 
No. 511), whereas in the preceding year he was in Norfolk, where his brother Clement 
wrote to him news from London (No. 430). 

29 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1 46 2 schulde pay no money to no man onto the tyme they had worde from hym, 
FEB. I seyng that he whas on of the feffeys of the same maner, and that he whas feed 
with Sir John FastolfF, of weche fee he was be hynde for ij. yere ; wherfore 
he desired the tenauntes that they schulde not be redy in payement onto the 
tyme they had word from hym, but that he myght be payed of his seide fee, 
lyke as the wylle of the deede was. Wherfore I can gete no money of them 
unto the tyme they have knowleche how it stond be twyx your maistership and 
Mr. Jenney ; for withoute Jenney write to hem or come hom ward that wey, 
and have the tenauntes together and lete hem witte that ye ought to have the 
rentes and fermes of the seid maner, I can not see that ye be like to have but 
litell money there, withoute ye woll do distreyne throuout all the lordeschip. I 
have sette dayes to purvey but [^their^ money ayenst the first weke of cleene 
Lentou, and than they schul have an answere who shal receyve it. Wherfore 
that it please your maistership to remembre to speke to Mastre Jenney. The 
blissed Trinite preserve you and kepe you from all advercyte. Wreten at 
Yebbyshep ^ the furst daye of Februare. 

Your pore servaunt and bedman, 
R. Calle. 

Item, the maner of Stratton shuid paye of rente xxvjj. viijJ., weche the 
fermour seythe my mastresse Brandon is acorded with you. He is be hynde 
for certeine yeres, &c. 



508 

JOHN PASTON TO 2 

FEB. 9 I % IGHT trusty and welbeloved, I grete yow hartily well, 
and will ye wite that where hit is so, that Sir John 
Fastolf, whom God assoyle, with other, was sum tyme 
by Sir Herry Inglose enfeffed of trust of his maner offe Pyke- 
wurthe in Rutlande, the which made his wille, proved, that the 
seid maner sholde by solde by Robert Inglose and Edmunde 
Wychingham his executours, to whom the seid Sir John hath 

1 Ipswich ? 

2 [From Fasten mss., B.M.] The ms, is a rough draft signed by John Fasten 
the eldest, and corrected in his hand. It seems to have been written on the cover 
of a letter addressed to himself; for on the back is this direction in another hand : — 
' To my most reverent and worchepfull maister, John Fasten the eldest, Esquier, be 
this deliveryd in hast.' 

We have inserted this letter in the year 14.62 as this was the first year after 
Fastolf s death, when John Fasten appears to have been residing in London in the 
beginning of February. The only ether possible years are 1463, 1465, and 1466. 

30 



R 



EDWARD IV 

relesed, as his dute was to do ; now it is so that for John 146a 
Browne^ ther is shewed a dede under seall of armes bervnge feb. 9 
date byfore his reles made to the Duke of NorfFoke, Henry 
Inglose and other, contrarie to the wille of the seid Sir Herry 
and the trust of the feoiFement that the seid Sir John Fastolff 
was infeiFed inne. And a letter of Attorney under the same 
seale of armes to yow, to deliver seison acordynge to the same 
feffement, to the gret disclaundre of the seid Sir John and all 
his, yef this be true. Wherfore I preie yow hertili that ye 
feithfully and truly rescribe to me in all the hast ye may what 
ye knowe in this mater such as ye wull stonde by with outen 
glose, and how ye can imagine that this crafte shulde be 
practised, and specially whether ye yourself delivered seison in 
Rutlond or noo. And this and what incedentes ye knowe, I 
preie yow by wrytinge certefie me in all hast, that I may be the 
more ripe to answer to this, to the wurship of the seid Sir John, 
that was your maister, so that thorowh your defaute your seid 
maisters soule ther for lie not in perell, but this disclaundre 
may be eesed and cesed as reson requireth, to the wurship of 
hym and all that longe to hym. And this I pray yow faile 
not ofFe as I truste yow. Wret at Londo[n] the ix. day of 
Februar. 

Yowr frend, Jon Paston. 



509 

SIR THOMAS HOWES TO JOHN PASTON 2 

To the ryght wurshipfull sir and meyster, myn 
Mayster John Paston, Squier. 

RYGHT worshipfuU sire and mayster, I recomaunde me [feb.] 
to yow. And please yow that the chirche of Drayton 
is or shal be resyngned in hast in to the Bysshopys 
hands by Sir John Bullok, desyryng yow hertly that ye lyke I 

1 This name is substituted for ' Herry Inglose,' struck out. 

2 [From Fenn, iv. 68.] For evidence of the date of this letter, Fenn quotes the 

31 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1462 may have the presentacion of the next avoydaunce for a newew 
[FEB.] of myn, callyd Sir Reynold Spendlove, whiche I truste youre 
maystership wold agree to make in youre name and myn as 
was last, &c. And, sir, please yow also that I have hadde 
diverse communicacions with Worcestr sethe Crystmesse,'^ and 
I fdt by hym otterly that he wole not appoynt in other fourme 
than to have the londs of Feyrechildes and other londes in 
Drayton to the sume of x. marc of yow proprely, by syde that 
that he desyreth of myn mayster, whom God assoyle, whiche 
mater I remytte to your noble discrecion. 

And as for answere of the bylles that I have, I have ben so 
sekelew seythe Crystmasse that I myght not yette don hem, 
but I shal in alle hast, wher inne ye may excuse yow by me if ye 
please tyl the next terme, at whiche tyme alle shal be aunswered, 
be Godds grace, who preserve yow and send yow th' accom- 
plyshement of youre desyres, &c. 

Item, sere, please youre maystership hit was leten me wete 
in ryght secrete wyse that a pyssaunce is redy to aryve in thre 
parties of this londe, by the meane of Kyng Herry and the 
Quene that wes, and by the Dewk Somercete and others, of 
vi."- m.'- [120,000] men ; and here day, if wynde and weder 
hadde servyd theym, shuld a' ben here sone upon Candelmasse ; 
at Trente to London werdes thei shuld a' ben by Candelmasse 
or sone after, one parte of theym, and another parte comyng 
from Walys, and the thredde fro Yernessey and Garnesseye. 
Wher fore it is weel don ye enforme myn Lord Warwyk, that 
he may speke to the Kyng that good provy[s]ion be hadde for 
withstandyng there malicyous purpose and evyl wylle, whiche 
God graunt we may our come theym ; and so we shuld, I 

following extracts from the Institution Books in the Registiy of the Sishop of 
Norwich : — 

' Draiton 

'Reg. xi. 1 24. 29 January 1460-1. Johannes Bullock ad pnesentationem Joh'is 
Fasten arm. et The. Howys capellani. 

'Reg. xi. 131. 15 March 1461-2. Joh'es Flourdew ad praesentationem 
eorundem.' 

It thus appears that the living was resigned by John Bullock in 146 1-2, and on 
the 1 5th March John Flourdew was presented to it, not the person here recommended 
by Howes. 

1 This word is indicated by Fenn as indistinct in the ms. 

32 

/ 



EDWARD IV 

dought not, if we were alle on [one]. There ben many mede- 1462 
lers, and they ben best cheryshed, whyche wold hurt moche if [feb.] 
these come to, as God diffende, &c. 

T. HowYS. 



MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON^ 

To my ryth worchepfull hushond., John Paston, 
be this delyveryd in hast. 

PLESYTH yow to wete that John Welly s and his brodyr march 
told me thys nyth that the Kyng lay at Cambryge as 
yestyrsnyth to Sandwyche ward, for ther is gret dy- 
vysyen be twyx the Lordys and the schypmen ther, that causyth 
hym to goo thedyr to se a remedye therfor. 

I thank God that John Paston yed non erst \went no earlier] 
forthe, for I trust to God all schall be do er he comyth. And 
it is told me that Syr John Howard is lek to lese hys hed. 

If it plese yow to send to the seyd Wellys, he schall send 
yow mor tydyngys than I may wryt at thys tyme. God have 
yow in Hys kepyng. 

Wretyn in hast at Thetford, at xj. of the clok in the nyth, 
the same day I departyd fro yow. 

I thank Pampyng of hys good wyll, and them that wer 
cause of changyng of my hors, for they ded me a bettyr torne 
than I wend they had do, and I schall aquyt them anothyr day, 
and I maye. 

By yor M. P. 

1 [From Fenn, ii. 288.] It appears by the dates of the Privy Seal writs that 
Edward iv. was at Cambridge on the 2nd and 3rd March 1462, and this is probably 
the visit alluded to, although we do not find that the King went on to Sandwich 
afterwards. 



VOL. IV. — c 33 



THE PASTON LETTERS 
511 

JOHN PASTON, THE ELDER, TO HIS FATHERS 

To myn ryth reverent and worschypfull fader, 
John Paston, beyng in the Inder Temple. 

1462 I '% YGHT reverent and wyrshypfuU fader, 1 recomand me 
MARCH 13 1^ yj^ ^Q y.Qy^ jjg sychyng you of your blessyng and 
"^ gode faderhode. Pleasyt it you to understond the 

grete expens that I have dayly travelyng with the Kyng, as the 
berour here of can enfourme you ; and howe long that I am 
lyke to tary here in thys country or I may speke with you a 
gayn, and howe I am chargyd to have myn hors and harnys 
redy, and in hasty wyse, besykyng you to consyder theys 
causes, and so to remembr me that I may have suche thynges 
as I may do my mayster servys with and pleasur, trusting in 
God it schall be to your wyrshyp and to myn and vayll [avail\ 
In especiall I besyche you, that I may be sur where to have 
mony somwhat be fore Estern, other of you, or by myn uncle 
Clement, when nede ys. Of othir causes the berour hereof can 
enfourme you. No more to you at thys tyme, but God have 
you in Hys kepyng. 

Wryten at Stamford, the xiij. day of March. 
Be yowr sone and servant, 

John Paston, the Older. 

^ [From Fenn, iv. 126.] It appears by the dates of the Privy Seal writs that 
Edward iv. was at Stamford, from the 9th to the 17th March, in the second year of 
his reign, i.e. in 14.62. This letter belongs therefore to that year. 



34 



EDWARD IV 

REPORT OF FRENCH PRISONERS 1 

Memorandum. This is the confessyon of xvj. Frenshemen with 
the Mastyr^ takyn at Sheryngam^ the iij. wek of Lent. 

RIGHT worshlpfull sir, I recomaund me to you, and lete 1462 
you wytte, that I have be at Shiryngham, and examyned march 
the Frenchmen to the nombre of xvj. with the maister. 
And thei telle that the Duke of Somerset is in to Scotland ; 
and thei sey the Lord Hungyrforthe was on Monday last 
passed afore Sheryngham in to Scotland ward, in a kervyle 
\carver\ of Depe, no gret power with hym, ne with the seid 
Duk neyther. And thei sey that the Duk of Burgoyn^ is 
poysened, and not like to recovere. And as for powers to be 
gadered ayenst our weelfare ; thei sey, there shulde come in to 
Seyne CC. gret forstages' owt of Spayne, from the Kyng 
there ; * and CCC. shippes from the Duk of Bretayne ^ with 
the navy of Fraunce, but thei be not yet assembled, ne vitayll 
there purveyd, as thei sey, ne men. And the Kyng of Fraunce ^ 
is in to Spayne on pilgrymage with fewe hors as thei sey ; 
what the purpose is thei can not telle certeyn, &c. In hast at 
Norwich. 

The Kyng of Frauns hath comitted the rewle of Bordews 
on to the marchaunds of the toun, and the browd ^ tha[t] be 
therin to be at ther wages ; and like as Caleys is a Stapole of 
wolle here in England, so is that made staple of wyne. 

John Fermer, presoner, seyth, on [onel John Gylys, a clerk 
that was with the Erie of Oxforthe, wych was some tym in 
Kyng Herrys hows, was a prevy secretary with the Erie of 

1 [From Fenn, i. 250.] This letter evidently refers to the state of matters in the 
beginning of the year 1462, when Henry vi. and Margaret of Anjou were in Scotland, 
and when the Earl of Oxford had just been beheaded for conspiring against Edward iv. 
The date of Oxford's execution was the 20th of February. This confession of the 
Frenchmen is dated in the third week of Lent, that is to say, between the 14th and 
the 20th of March. 2 PhiJip the Good. 

' Large ships with forestages or forecastles. * Henry iv., King of Castile. 

5 Francis 11., the last Duke. * Lewis xi. 

^ This word, says Fenn, is imperfect in the original. 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1462 Oxforthe ; and if any wrytyng wer made by the seyd Erie, the 
MARCH seyd Gylys knew ther of in this gret matyeres. 

JAMES GRESHAM TO JOHN PASTON ^ 

'To my right singler maister^ J. Paston, Squyer^ in hast^ (3'c. 

MARCH 24 -4 FTER due recomendacion, please it your maistership to 
/-\ wyte Maister Yelverton, justice, seid in the Sessions 
^ that the Kyng shulde kepe his Estern at Bury, and 

from thens come unto this cuntre and se suyche riottes as have 
be in this cuntre punyshed in suche fourme as happely summe 
shulde hange by the nekke. And he tolde what thank he had 
of the Kyng at Cambrigg for cause he declarid so well the 
charge of extorcions doon by Shirefs and other officers, &c., 
for the whiche declaracion the Kyng tooke hym by the hand, 
and seid he cowde hym grett thanke, and prayed hym so to do 
in this cuntre, &c. 

In hast, at Norwich, the Wednesseday next tofore th'An- 
nunciacion, &c. 

Your povere, J. Gresham. 

JOHN WYKES TO JOHN PASTON » 

To my right trusti and welbelovid frend, John Paston, Esquier. 

MARCH 25 I -% IGHT worshipfull, and myn enterly welbelovyd frend, 

rC I recomaund me un to you, hertely thankyng you of 

^ ^ your gret present of fisch, and of the felyshipp that 

my cosyn your sonne shewid unto me att Norwiche, purposyng 

1 [From Fenn, iv. 76.] It does not appear that Edward iv. ever did spend an 
Easter at Bury, as here projected. He was, however, at Cambridge in the beginning 
of March 1462 ; from which he proceeded to Peterborough, Stamford, Newark, and 
Lincoln, and at Easter (i8th April) he seems to have been at Leicester. 

* [From Fenn, i. 252.] As this letter relates to the arrest of a confederate of the 
Earl of Oxford and his son, who were executed in February 1462, for conspiring 
against Edward iv., the date must be referred to that year. 

36 



EDWARD IV 

be the grace of God to deserve it un to you in tyme to come, 1462 
in such place as I may do for you. march 25 

Desiryng you specyally, wher as a tenaunt of myne of 
Lavenham, called John Fermour, is sesid and arestid with in 
the towne of Yermowth, be cause he dwellid with the Erie of 
Oxonfords son, and purposid to have passid the see withou[t] 
lycence, and stondyth out of the conceyte of much peple, I 
wold desyre you, that ye wold wryte to the BaylyfFs of Yer- 
mouth to delyver the seid John Fermor to my servaunt John 
Brenerigg, brynger of this, with an officer of the seid Towne, 
to be caried unto the Kyngs Castell of Rysing at my cost ; 
ther to be examynid of certeyne Artycules, which I may not 
disclose, til I have spoke with the Kyngs Highnes : praying 
you to wryte to the seid BaylifFs, that I shall be her suffisant 
discharge ayenst the Kynge. Desyryng yow to geve credence 
to the brynger herof, as my verray trust is in yow. 

Wretyn at Lavenham, the xxv'^- day of Marche. 

Your trew and feithfuU frend, 
havyng no blame for my gode 
wylle. John Wykes, 

Ussher of the Kyngs Chambre. 



JOHN RUSSE TO JOHN PASTON 1 

To the rigth reverent and worshipfull sir^ and my right 
honourable maystyr^ John Paston. 

RIGHT worshipfull sir, and my right honourable maistir, april (?) 
I recomaunde me to you in my most humble wise. 
And plese it youre good maistirshyp to wete that it is 
seyd here that my Lord Worcestre is lyk to be Tresorer, with 

> [From Fenn, iv. iiz.] This letter must have been written before the 14th of 
April 1462, on which day the Earl of Worcester was appointed Treasurer of the 
Exchequer (^Patent Roily z Edw. iv., p. 1, m. 19). 

37 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1462 whom I truste ye stonde right wel in conseit, with whiche God 
APRIL (?) contynwe. Wherfor I beseke youre maistirshipp that if my 
seid Lord have the seid office, that it lyke you to desyre the 
nomynacion of on of the officez, eythyr of the countroller or 
serchorship of Jernemuth, for a servaunt of yowrez, and I 
shuld so gyde me in the office as I truste shuld be most profit 
to my seyd Lord. And if youre maistirshyp lyked to gete 
graunt thereof, that than it plesyd you to lycense on of youre 
servaunts to take out the patent of the seyd office ; and if 
it cost V. or vj. or viij. marke, I shal trewly contente it ageyn; 
and yeerly as longe as I myght have the officez, or any of 
hem, I shal geve my maister youre sone v. marke toward an 
haukeney. 

It shuld be to me right a good mean to stondyn as well in 
the trust as in the conseyt amongs marchaunts, with whom 
and with alle men I calle myself a servaunt of yourez, and soo 
wil do, if it plese you, which boldyth me the more to calle 
upon youre right wurshipful maistyrshyp in this mater, where 
in 1 beseke you to forgeve me my boldneyse in thys behalve. 
And if I knew that my Lord shuld have the office in sertayn, 
than I wold wayte upon youre good maystyrshyp there to 
opteyne the patent, if it plesyd youre good maystirship to gete 
me the graunt, &c. 

No more on to you, my right honourable maister, at thys 
tyme, but Jesu I beseke sende you a good conclucyon in 
all yore maters, and graunt you ever youre herts desyre. 
Yore contynwal servaunt and bedeman, 

John Russe. 



38 



EDWARD IV 

516 

W. C. TO JOHN PASTONi 

To myn ryght luorshipfull and ryght singler good maystety 
myn Mayster John Paston. 

Myn ryght worshipfull mayster, I recomaunde me to yow in myn ryght 1 46 2 
homble wyse. And please your maystership that I have ben at Wetyng and may 4 
there hald the court and lete on Hokmonday ^ as hit hath bene of olde tyme 
accostomed; and the tenauntes have attorned and bene full gladde that myn 
lady shuld rejoyse hit and kepe here possession. The priour of Bromhill that 
was fermoure his terme is expired, and wole sewe to myn lady and hir councell 
to have a newe terme ; but lete myn lady be ware, for, as I here seyn, he 
bydeth but a tyme that he myght gete a summe of money to geders of myn 
ladyes lyflode, and to gone ther with^ a love of his sojornyng as yette in 
Hokehold. She hath bene dreven fro town to town for his sake. Hit is wele 
done ye advertyse myn lady, if she be in that cas that she hath governaunce of 
hir owen londes, that she do no thyng to that lyflode ner non other in NorfFolk, 
with ought advyse of theym that have vysyted and overseen theym ; for there 
hath bene straunge rewle, bothe in woodsales and sale of londes helde at wylle 
for fre rent, as ye shal knowe here after. Thoresby, a man that was generall 
attorney for myn Lord Oxenford that was, told me that the Kynge hadde 
made Keche generall receyvoure by priveseale of alle londes that were the Erie 
of Oxenford and Dame Elyzabet, ecept tho that Howard hadde entered and 
Lanham and an other graunted to Wykes, and certeyn lyflode in Kent that was 
assigned to the tresorer of howshold of the Kynges hows ; and she shuld have 
be Keches hande v.""- [500] mark, ij.""- and 1. [250] mark to bene payed at this 
Estern and the remulant at Mihelmasse. And of the remulant the Kyng shuld 
be answered. Ye shal sone understande how it is ; and if hit be so, hit [is] * 
but foly to laboure any ferther. I wold fayn knowe, for the courtes for the half 
yere wold bene holde for nede. And our Lord be with youre maystership and 
sende yow th'accomplyshement of youre noble desyres. Wreten hastely at 
Norwyche, the iiij*' day of May. 

Youre servaunt to his power, 
W. C. 

And whan ye comon with myn ryght worshipfull lady I beseche yow 
remembre myn pore maters in whiche is greet concyens, &c. 

1 [From Paston mss., B.M.] The manor of Weeting, in Norfolk, came to John 
Vere, twelfth Earl of Oxford, by his marriage with Elizabeth, daughter and heir of 
John Howard, Esquire, son and heir of Sir John Howard, Knight. This Earl was 
beheaded in February 1462, for treason against Edward iv., and the present letter 
seems to have been written in May following. 

« Hock Monday was a fortnight after Easter Monday. In 1462 it fell on the 3rd 
May, the day before this letter was written. 

3 mth repeated in MS. * Omitted in ms. 

39 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON 1 

To my ryght wurschipful maister^ John Paston. 

1462 T RECOMAUNDE me unto you. Plesith it you to witte 
MAY 18 I that I have spoken with Furbuschour and other of the 
"*" matre that ye spake to me ofF, and they have promysed 
me to be as feythefull in it as it where for hem selfe. Also I 
have spoken with my modre and seide to here as ye desired 
me to doo, and sche seide sche knewe the massache weele 
inowe before be other persones in like wice as ye comaunded 
hem to sey to her ; and sche seide she wode fayne that ye 
dede weele what so ever ye sey and fille forthe in other 
talkyng. Me semethe che is displesed that ye came not to her 
or than ye roode foorthe. I schall telle you more whan that ye 
come home. Thomas Denys wyff whas at me, and desired me 
that I schulde sende to you and desire you that che myght 
have knowleche from you how ye woll that sche schall doo with 
her matre ; sche seithe her brother and other of her frendes 
thynke that she schulde up to London and calle uppon her 
matre there, but she seithe pleynly sche woll nought doo therin 
withoute your advice. It whas toolde me that Bacon and 
Gonnor whas here to speke with me for the matre that Bacon 
spake to you of, and at that tyme I whas at Norweche and 
I herde no more of hem sethen. And as for my brother 
William, he is not' purposed to come to London tyll aftre 
Pentecost ; but my brother Clement is purposed to come 
forward on Monday or on Twesday next comyng at the 

1 [From Paston Mss., B.M.] This letter is evidently not far removed in date 
from No. 489, in which 'Joan Gayne's matter' is also mentioned. The year, 
however, cannot be 1461, as William Paston was in London that year as early as the 
4th April. It seems also from this letter that John Paston had recently left home, 
which could not have been the case in 1461 if No. 453 be of that year. We have 
therefore little doubt that the true date is 1462, and that the substance of the letter 
relates to proceedings taken by the widow of Thomas Denys against her husband's 
murderers. 

40 



EDWARD IV 

ferthest. No more at this tyme but the blissed Trinite 1462 
preserve you. Wreten the xviij. day of May. may 18 

Your Margaret Paston. 

I prey yow that ye woll wete safe to remembre Johane 
Gayne matre, and that ye woll take John Paston that he 
remembre you of it, for Dawbeney and Pampyng woll sone 
for gete it. 



518 

JOHN PASTON, JUNIOR, TO HIS FATHER 1 

To my ryght wurschipfull fadre^ John Paston, 

PLESIT you to wete that I am at Leyn, and under stande may 
be dyvers personys, as I am in formed, that the Mayster 
of Carbroke ^ wold take a rewle in the Mare Talbot as 
for capteyn, and to yeve jaketes of his levery to dyvers per- 
sonis qwych be waged be oder men, and nouth be hym, beyng 
in the said shep. Qwerfor in as moch as I have but few 
sowdeors in myn levery her, to strenketh me in that qwych is 
the Kynges commandement, I kepe with me yowr too men, 
Dawbenney and Calle, qwich I purpose shall seyle with me to 
Yermeth ; for I have purveyed harneyse for hem. And ye 
shall well understande, be the grace of God, that the said 
Mayster of Carbroke shall have non rewle in the sheppes, as I 
had purposid he shuld have had, because of his besynesse, and 
for this is on of the specyall causes I kepe yowr said men with 
me, besechyng you ye takyt to non dysplesur of ther taryng 

* [From Fenn, iv. loo.] On the 29th May 1462 a commission was g^ranted to 
Sir John Howard and Sir Thomas Walgrave to arrest the ships, the Mary Talbot and 
the Mary Thomson, both of Lynn, and other vessels in Norfolk, Suffolk, and Essex, 
for a fleet which the King was fitting out (see Patent Roll, 2 Edw. rv., p. i, m. 14, 
in dorso). Sir Thomas Walgrave may perhaps have been the person designated in 
this letter as the Master of Carbrooke. At all events, the date is clearly about this 
time. 

2 At Carbrooke, in Norfolk, was a commandry formerly belonging to the Knights 
Templars, which, like most of the possessions of the order, when it was suppressed in 
Edward 11. 's time, was given to the Knights of St. John. 

41 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1462 with me. Nat withstandyng, ther herden^ at Wyggenalle 
WAY shall be don this day be the grace of God, Whoo have you 
in kepyng. 

Wreten at Leynn, the morow after my departyng from 
you. 

Item, as far such tydynges as be here, Th. shall in forme 
you. John Paston. 

ABSTRACT* 

JUNE 6 Inventory of household stufF remaining at Castre, 6 June 2 Edward iv., 

viz. of robes, jewels, arras, etc. 

520 
NOTE 

Among some mss., which seem formerly to have belonged to the Paston 
Collection in the Bodleian Library at Oxford, is one endorsed — * A Pedigree 
showing how the manor of Caister was divided,' tracing its descent from earlier 
owners to Sir John Fastolf. 

521 

J. DAUBENEY TO JOHN PASTON ^ 

To my most reverent and worchepfull maister, John Paston^ 
dwellyng at Heylysdon^ be this delyveryd. 

Ih's. 

JULY 3 "^ ^OST reverent and worchepfull master, I recommaund 

V/l me onto your god masterchep. Please you to have 

■^ ■*' knowlage, on the Fryday at afternoon next after 

Seynt Peter, there was at the taveran in London old Debnam 

1 I do not understand the meaning of the word ' herden.' — F. 

2 [From MS. Phillipps, 9735, No. 354.] 

3 [From Fenn, iv. 138.] The date of this letter is showTi by an entry on the 
Patent Roll, 2 Edw. iv., p. i, m. 7, in dorso. On the 27th June 1462 a cora- 
mission was given to Gilbert Debenham, Jun., Esquire, Walter Alderiche, master of 
the George of Yarmouth, and John Childe, to arrest for the King's service a ship 
called The Barge 0^ Yarmouth, alias The George, with victuals, masters, and mariners 
for the same, 

4^ 



EDWARD IV 

and young Debnam, Thomas Edmonds, and I; and ther the 1462 
seyd Thomas Edmonds fell in communicaclon with old Ju^v 3 
Debnam, and seyd that my Lord Tresorer^ had put hym 
to a gret charge for the vetelyng of Mary Talhot^ seyyng 
to old Debnam that he hard sey that he had a C. buUoks 
to selle, the wyche the seyd Edmonds wolle bey so that they 
may a cord of the price. Than the seyd old Debnam answerd 
ageyn, and seyd he wold, so that he myght have good pay- 
ment, or elles the seyd Edmonds to be bound in abligacion 
to pay hym at suche dayys as they myght a cord. And noon 
upon thys same langwage, yong Debnam spake to hys fader, 

* Sir, I pray you that ye wolle take avisment of this mater tille 
to morowe, for I trost to your good faderhod that ye wolle 
late me have a serteyn of your bulloks for the vetelyng of the 
Barge of Termothe^ and I shall fynd you sufficiant suerte for 
the payment therof for Edmonds. I wolle that ye knowe I 
have be ther, and spoke with the owner and with the maister 
of the seyd barge, and they knowyn myn oppoyntment.' 

Than the seyd Edmonds answered to yong Debnam, 
and told hym that the sety of Norwic and Yermothe hathe 
grauntyd, and send wrytyng to the Kynge and to the Lords 
that they wolle manne and veteylle the seyd barge of her owne 
cost fro the tym of hyr goyng owt tylle hyr comyng home ; 
and thus the seyd Edmonds told hym that my Lord Tresorer 
and all the Lords that be at London thynk they do ryght 
well her devyer, and be worthey moche thanke of the Kyng. 

* Well,' quod yong Debnam, ' I had in commaundment for to 
have the rewle of the seyd barge, and I wolle be at Yermothe 
as thys day iiij. dayys, and man hyr and bryng hyr downne to 
the Gylys of Hulle, for that ys my chype.' 

Also he seyd mor, with out that he myght have the seyd 
barge, he wolle note goo to see but hym self and hys xxiiij. 
men. And thus, yf please your maisterchep, he departyd 
from the taveran ; and at hys departyng, he told the seyd 
Thomas Edmonds, ' Thys ys Paston labor.' Than the seyd 
Edmonds answerd hym ageyn, and seyd playnly he was to 

1 John Tiptoft, Earl of Worcester. He was beheaded in October 1470.— F. 
* See Preliminary Note to No. 518, p. 41, Note i. 

43 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

blame for to reporte so of your masterchep, for he knoythe 
veryly he seyd on trewly of you and of my master your son 
bothe, and ther on he wold take a hothe. And so, yf it please 
your good masterchep, late the cety of Norwic and Yermothe 
have knowlage of hys gret crakyng and host, and let hym of 
hys purpose by the autorite that they have. 

Item, my master your son wolle have to hys jakets murry ^ 
and tany \_tawny\ and that it please yow sum of my felachep 
may spek to on of the drapers for to ordeyn yt ageyns hys 
comyng hom, for I trowe it shall be thys day sevenyght ar he 
comithe home. 

Item, sir, if please you, Skrowpe hathe sent to you to 
London be Byngham for the mony that ye knowe of, zit I 
spake not with hym ; but I shall telle hym that I suppose ye 
shall be here in the last end of the terme, and I shall send 
your masterchep word what answer I have of hym. 

Item, sir, if pleese suche tydyngs as I her of, I send you 
word. My Lord of Warwek hathe be in Skotlond, an take 
a castell of the Skoots ; and upon thys ther came the Quene of 
Skoots ^ with other Lords of her contre, as ye shaU her the 
namys, in basetry \_eml>assy^ to my seyd Lord of Werwek, and 
a trews is take betwyx thys and Seynt Bertylmew Day in 
Auguste. Thes is the last tydyngs that I knowe. No mor 
to your god masterchep at this tyme, but Jesu have [you] in 
kepyng. 

Wretyn on the Saturday next after Seynt Peter. 
By your por servaunt, 

J. Daubeney. 

^ Dark red or purple and yellowish colour. — F. 

2 Mary, daughter of Arnold, Duke of Gelders, and mother to James iii., King of 
Scotland. 



44 



EDWARD IV 

522 

RICHARD CALLE TO JOHN PASTON, JUNIOR 1 

To my maistrcy John Paston the yonger^ be this delyvered. 

SERE, I have receyved your lettre, wherin I undrestand 1462 
that my maistre desired that my maistre your brother 
myght have the gidyng and governaunce of the Barge 
of Termouthe. As to that, and men of Yermouthe had knowen 
my maistre entend a fornyght a goo, he had ben swer of it, 
but nough it is so that Debenham hathe a comyscion of the 
Kyng expressed oonly for that schip named in hes comyscion ; 
and he hathe ben here at Yermouthe, and spoken with the 
balyfFs and with the owners of the seide schip, and takyn 
suche a direccion that they may graunted it ne man but hym. 
And moreover he hathe endented with the owners of the schip 
what daye it schulbe redy as well vetaylled as manned ; and 
also he hathe brought downe letters from my Lord Tresorer 
to all priours and gentlemen in this contre to helpe hym and 
assiste hym to vetayle and manne the seide schip, and hes men 
is here dayle, and gothe abought and gathereth whete, malt, 
money, and what so ever any man woll geve, &c. 

The blissed Trinyte preserve you. Wreten at Castre, the 
Friday next aftre I receyved your lettre. 

Item, is talked here that my maistre your brother and 
Debenham were at words at London, and that Debenham 
shuld have streken hym, had nought Howard a' beene, &c., 
wherof I am ryght sory, &c. Neverthelesse I trust to God all 
schul be weell. 

Your servaunt, Ric. Calle. 

1 [From Fenn, iv. 144.] This and the next letter were evidently written not 
very long after the last. 



45 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

RICHARD CALLE TO JOHN PASTON i 
To my maistre^ John Paston. 

PLESITH your maisterschip to wit that I whas at Scole, 
and spake with Alblastre, John Sadeler, and with other 
good yomen of the contre to undrestonde how they 
were gided for the vetelyng of the Barge of Yermouth. And I 
undrestonde be them that there \their\ hundred have payed; 
nevertheles it is but litell. Ther was gatherd in that hundred 
xviijj. and certein corn, and some other hundred vj. marc and 
corne, and so they have payed in all the hundreds and townys 
here a boute, that is to sey, Est Flegge and West Flegge and 
up to Blofeld, Tunsted and up to Stalom, I undrestand, be 
the comiscion that Debenham hath. It is more large thanne 
master John is, as ye schal undrestand, wherof I send you a 
copy, weche causeth me that I labour no ferther therin. Not- 
withstandyng your maisterschip schal have knowleche what 
every hundred geve, and Yermeth bothe. 

Wreten at Wynterton, the morwe aftre I departed from 
your maisterschip. 

Youre poore bedman, Ric. Calle. 

524 

ABSTRACT 2 

Richard Calle to John Paston 

1462^?^ Cannot inform him how much malt he has at Castre, 'for the makers have 

Ftuly cl °°^ moten all up yet,' — probably 400 quarters new and 160 comb old malt of 

'■ -' Castre and Mauteby, of which 40 quarters will be spent in the household by 

Hallowmas. At Yarmouth it is now 2j. zd. a bushel — it was zs. 6d. But 

London is a better market. Thinks the price will fall here, as the fields are 



' [From Fenn, iii. 430.] 
* [From Paston Mss., B.M.] 

46 



EDWARD IV 

reasonably fair in Flegge, and so up to Norwich. The carriage from Yarmouth 1462 (?) 
to London will be dd. per quarter, *and I understand j. quartre of Yermothe Fjulv cl 
mette makethe at London but vij. busschell.' '• ■' 

Norwich, Monday after St. Peter's Day. 

[As John Fasten does not seem to have been in undisturbed possession of Caister 
before 1462, and we have evidence of Richard Calle having been there in that year 
about the time of year when this letter was written, we may with great probability 
refer it to that year.] 

JOHN RUSSE TO JOHN PASTON^ 

'To the right worshypful my right honourahyl mayster^ 
John Paston. 

RIGHT worshipful! sir, and my right honourabill maister, julv 15 
I recomaund me to you in my most humble wyse, and 
please your maistirship to wete that her is on Thomas 
Chapman, an evyl disposyd man al wey ayens you, as I have 
informyd youre maistirship many tymes, and now he hathe 
labouryd to my Lord Tresorer to subplante me, and brought 
down wryghting from the Kyng and my Lord Tresorer ; but 
or hise wryting cam, Wydwell fond the meanys, be the suppor- 
tacion of Maistir Feen, that we had a discharge for hym out of 
the Chauncery ; wherfor the seyd Chapman proposyth to be 
at London in all haste, and to avertise the Kyng and my Lord 
Tresorer ageyn me to the grettest hurt he can imagyne. Wher- 
for I beseke youre maystirship, consedryng is evyl disposecion 
to yow, and also the rather at my pore instaunce, that ye lyke 
that my Lord Tresorer myght undyrstonde that the seyd 
Chapman is of no reputacion, but evyl disposyd to brybory of 
straungers, and be colour of hise office of supervisor of the 
searche shal gretly hurte the port. The seyd Chapman sup- 
portors is Blakeney, clerk of the sygnet, and Avery Corn- 
burght, yoman of the Kynges chaumbre. He hathe here ot 
Avereyes xxiiij. tune wyn, whereof at the long wey he shal 

1 [From Fenn, iv. 120.] The precise year in which this letter was written is 
a little uncertain, but from the date and contents it would appear that Russe was now 
in possession of the office which in No. 515 he had asked Paston to procure for 
him ; so that it cannot be earlier than 1462. 

47 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1462 (.) make the seyd Averey a lewd rekenyng. The seyd Chapman 
J"^"^ ^5 lovyth not you, nor no man to yow wards, &c. 

Sir, I prey God brynge you onys to regne amongs youre 
cuntre men in love, and to be dred. The lenger ye contynwe 
there the more hurt growyth to you. Men sey ye will neyther 
folwe the avyse of youre owyn kynred, nor of youre counsell, 
but contynwe your owyn wylfullnesse, whiche, but grace be, 
shal be youre distrucion. It is my part to enfourme youre 
maistirshyp as the comown voyse is, God betir it, and graunt 
yow onys herts ease ; for it is half a deth to me to here the 
generall voyse of the pepyll, whiche dayli encreassyth, &c. 

Sir, I beseke youre maistirshyp to remembre my maystresse 
for the lytil sylvir, whiche for serteyn thyngs delyverid to 
youre use is dewe to me. I have nede of it now. I have 
bought salt and other thyngs, whiche hathe brought me out of 
myche sylvir. I wold trust, and I nedyd to borwe xx/j., your 
maistirshyp wold ease me for a tyme, but thys that I desyre is 
myn owyn dute. And Jesu graunt yow ever yowr herts desyre 
to youre worshyp and profyt, and preserve yow my right 
honourabyll maister from all adversyte. 

Wretyn at Jernemuthe, the xv. day of July. Here is a 
kervyl [carvef] of Cane in Normandy, and he takyth Duchemen, 
and raunsumyth hem grevously. 

Yore servaunt and bedman, John Russe. 



526 

WILLIAM PASTON TO JOHN PASTON 1 

To myn wurchipfull hroder^ Jon Paston. 

1462 I '% YTHTHE wurchipfull broder, I recomand [me] to zow. 

JULY r^ Lekit it zow to wethe \wit\ Jon of Dam is come to 

towne, and purposit hym to tary here a day ar ij. ar 

longar, I can thynk, and he be desyryd. Were fore I pray 

1 [From Paston Mss., B.M.] The reference to the death of Christopher Hanson 
proves this letter to have been written in July 1462, as the precise date of his death is 
given in Letter 528. 

48 



EDWARD IV 

zow, and as I have afore this tyme desiryd zow the same, that 1462 
suche materis as hathe be comunyd now lathe be twyx myn i^^^ 
moder, zow and hym, may take some good conclucyon be twyx 
owre selff here at hom. And in myn consayt, savyng zow 
better avyse, it were so most convenyent and wurchipfuU for 
us all, and comforthe to all owre fryndis. And for this 
ententhe I wold tary here the lengar ; for I wold be as glad as 
any man a lyve that suche an ende mythe be take be twix us 
that iche off us all schuld inyoy the wyllefFar off odyr, qweche 
I trust with zowr good help schall be rythe wyll, and I dowthe 
nat myn mastyr Markam wyll be will plesyd thus. 

I have tydynges from London, and a monge odyr tydynges 
I have knowlage that Cirstofre Hanson is passid to God on 
Saterday last past, at ij. of clok after mydnythe. It is good to 
take hede there to, &c. 

Item, I sent to zow to have had zowre avyse qwat menys 
were best to make for the mater towchyng the Lord Scrop, 
qwere in I had an answer, but me thowthe it was not to the 
poynthe. I sopose, and I purposyd to make the labore that 
ze sent me word I schuld do towchyng me, I can thynk I 
schuld sone be answerid, meche sonar than he. I must send 
some answer to hym, were in I wold have zowr consayll ; for 
he desirid the same, and I wold not he schold thynk that he 
were forgotyn be us. 

Be zowr pore broder, 

William Paston. 

I can thynk and he were here he wold be a feythfull frynd 
to zow ; but and so were that ze thowthe that it were for 
to labore for any oder man, me thynkit it were for zow to 
remembre myn nevew. That were somewat lykly, and there 
to wold I be glad to help and lene to the toder. For as for 
me, I know so moche that sche will none have but iff he have, 
ar be leke to have, meche more lond than I have ; and iff I 
knewe the contrary, it schuld nat be left for the labore, but I 
wold not be in a folis paradyce, and ze be myn good brodir. I 
trust thow to do rythe will, &c. 

VOL. IV. — D 49 



THE PAS TON LETTERS 

527 

THOMAS PLAYTER TO JOHN PASTON^ 

To my rigth good maister^ John Paston the oldest^ ^^y^S 
at Heylesdon^ hesyde Norwichcy in hast. 

1462 I PLEASE your maistership wete that Christofer Hanson is 

JULY wr^ ded and beryed ; and as for executor or testament, he 

mad non. 

As for tydyngs, the Erles of Warrewyk, of Essex, Lord 

Wenlok, Bysshop of Dereham, and other go in to Scotland of 

inbassat. And as for the sege of Kaleys, we here no mor ther 

of, blyssed be God, ho have you in His kepying. 

Item, as for Christofers papers that longeth to your tenants, 
I have goten of William Worcester ; and as for all the rem- 
naunt of Christofer good, William Worcester hath the reule as 
hym semeth most convenient. 

Your, Thoms Playter. 



528 
PLAYTER TO JOHN PASTON 2 

To my maister, John Paston^ at Heylesdon. 

ITEM, plese you wete of other tytyngs. These Lords in 
your other letter,* with Lord Hastyngs and other, ben to 
Karlyle to resseve in the Qwen of Scotts ; * and uppon 
this appoyntement, Erie Duglas ^ is comaunded to come thens, 
and as a sorwefull and a sore rebuked man lyth in the Abbey 

' [From Fenn, iv. 124.] This letter, like the last, is dated by the letter following. 

2 [From Fenn, i. 270.] This letter seems to have been penned immediately after 
the last was sent off. 

3 i.e. the other letter to you — meaning No. 527. 
* Mary of Gueldres, widow of James 11. 

' James, Earl of Douglas, who had been banished firom Scotland, but was made by 
Edward iv. a Knight of the Garter. 

50 



EDWARD IV 

of Seynt Albons ; and by the said appoyntement schall not be 1462 
reputed, nor taken, but as an Englyssheman, and if he come in July 
the daunger of Scotts, they to sle hym. 

Item, Kyng Harry and his Aderents in Scotland schall 
be delyvered ; and Lord Dakres of the Northe is wonne and 
yelden, and the seid Lord, Sir Richard Tunstall, and on Byllyng- 
ham in the said Castell ben taken and heded. 

Item, the Qwen and Prince ben in Fraunce and ha mad 
moche weyes and gret peple to com to Scotland and ther trust 
to have socour, and thens to com in to Inglond : what schall 
falle I can not sey, but I herd that these appoyntements were 
take by the yong Lords of Scotland, but not by the old. 

Your, Flatter. 

Christofer dyed on the Satarday next be for Seynt Margret,^ 
Anno . E. ij'*"- 



529 

JOHN RUSSE TO JOHN PASTON^ 

To my right honorahil and worshypfull maister^ my 
Maister Paston. 

PLEASE it youre worshipfull maistyrshyp to wete, that it 
is informyd me thys day scretly, that there is dyrected 
out a commyssion to mayster Yelwyrton and maister 
Jenney, which shall tomorwyr syttyn be vertu of the same at 
Seynt OlefFes ; ' and the substaunce of jentilmen and yemen of 
Lodyngland be assygned to be afore the seyd commesyoners ; 
and it is supposed it is for my maisters londs, for as the seyd 

^ St. Margaret's Day was the 20th July. The Saturday before it in 1462 was the 
17th. 

2 [From Fenn, i. 260.] This letter must have been written in the year 1462 before 
the Duke of Somerset was received into favour. Proclamations similar to those 
mentioned in this letter were issued on the 6th March 146 1 and the nth May 1464; 
but neither of these can be the case referred to. The coming of the King to London 
must have been in the beginning of September 1462. He was in London on the 14th 
of that month, and had been at Fotheringay on the ist, as the dates of Privy Seals 
inform us. ^ st. Olave's, in Suffolk. 

51 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1462 persone informyd me, the seyd comesyoners have been at 
SEPT. Cotton, and there entred, and holdyn a court. I can not 
informe youre maystyrship that it is thus in serteyn, but thus 
it was told me, and desyryd me to kepe it secret ; but be cause 
I conseyve it is ageyn your maistyrship, it is my part to geve 
you relacion thereof. 

I sende you a letter which cometh from Worcestyr ^ to my 
maister youre brothyr. I wold ye undyrstod the intente of it, 
for as for Worcester, I knowe well he is not good. Sum men 
ar besy to make werre, for p' ^ the absentyng of my maister, 
the parson comyth not of hyse owyn mocyon, but I wold youre 
maistyrship knewe be whom it is mevyd. I herd you never 
calle hym false pryst, be my trouth, nor other language that is 
rehersyd hym, but Gode sende a good accord, for of varyaunce 
comyth gret hurt of tyn tyme, and I beseche Jesu sende youre 
maistyrship youre herts desyre, and amende hem that wold the 
contrary. 

Sir, yesterevyn a man came from London, and he seyth, 
the Kyng cam to London on Satyrday, and there dede make a 
proclamacion that all men that were be twyx Ix. and xvj. shuld 
be redy to wayte upon hym whan so ever they were callyd ; 
and it is seyd, that my Lord Warwyk had sent to the Kyng, 
and informyd hyse Hyghnesse that the Lord Summyrset had 
wretyn to hym to come to grace ; but of the fleet of shyppis 
there is no tydings in serteyn at London on Monday last 
past. 

Youre bedman and servaunt, 

John Russe. 

1 William Worcester. 

2 p'. — So in Fenn's left-hand copy. The word seems to have been ambiguous in 
the original Ms., and is rendered *^' (in italics) in the modem version. 



52 



EDWARD IV 

530 

JOHN PASTON TO THE LORD CHANCELLORS 

SHEWYTH and lowly compleynith on to your good i462(?) 
Lordship John Paston, the older, Squier, that where 
Sir John Fastolf, Knyght, cosyn to your seid besecher, 
was seasid of diveris maners, londs, and tenements in Norfolk, 
Suffolk, and Norwich, the xxvij. yere of Kyng Herre that was, 
and therof infeffid diveris persones to execute and performe 
his will, and mad his will in especiall that a college of vij. 
monks shuld be stabilisshed, founded, and indewed withinne a 
plase late be the seid Sir John edified at Caster be the see 
in Norfolk, and certeyn livelode to be immortesid^ therto, to 
prey for his sowle, his faders and moders, in forme and maner 
as in his will mad at that tyme more pleynly specifyth ; whech 
will and feffment continued till the xxxv. yere of the seid late 
Kyng. And aftir, upon divers communicacions had be divers 
personis with the seid Sir John Fastolff, and upon divers con- 
sideracions mevid to hym, the seid Sir John Fastolff conceyvid 
that such be monkys hym there to be indewed shuld not be 
of power to susteyne and kepe the seid plase edified, or the 
lond that shuld be immortesid ther to, acordyng to his seid 
entent and will ; wherfore, and for good will that the seid Sir 
John Fastolff had to the proferryng of your seid besecher mevyd 
hym to have the seid plase and certeyn of his livelode of gretter 
valew than the charge of the seid college schuld drawe, and to 
found the seid college and to here the reparacion and defens 
therof. Upon whech mocion the seid Sir John Fastolff and 
your seid besecher apoynted be word withowt writyng at that 

1 [From Paston mss., B.M.] This is a draft bill in Chancery prepared by John 
Paston with a view to the commencement of a suit against Yelverton and Jenney for 
their entry into the manor of Cotton and other lands of Sir John Fastolf in Suffolk. 
The document may have been drawn up in the latter part of the year 146 1 ; but 
from the contents of the preceding letter it is not unlikely to have been a year later. 
Two copies of this document exist, with the very same corrections and interlineations 
in both. 

2 Amortized, or granted in mortmain. 

53 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

I462(?)tyme mad that your seid besecher shuld, aftir the decese of 
the seid Sir John FastolfF, have the seid plase in Caster, and 
all the maners that were the seid Sir John FastolfFs or any 
other to his use in Norfolk, Suffolk, and Norwich, up trust 
th^t the same John Paston shuld founde there a college of vij. 
monkes or prestes havyng a certeyn pension for her sustenta- 
cion payid clerly in mony withowt any charge, cost, reparacion, 
or joperde of defens of the seid plase or of any other livelode 
to be bore be the seyd collegians, and more over to paye a 
certeyn somme of mony of the revenews of the seid maners, 
londes and tenementes to be disposid yerly be certeyn yeres 
for the sowle of the seid Sir John Fastolff till the summe of 
v.""'- [5000] mark were so disposed. Upon wech apoynte- 
ment it was acordyd be thwyx the seid Sir John and your seid 
besecher, for as moch as your seid besecher had non astate in 
the seid maners and londes and tenementes, that for his more 
suerte, and upon trust that the seid Sir John had to your seid 
besecher in this behalfe that a newe feffement shuld be mad of 
the seid plase and of the maner of Caster, and all the seid 
maners, londs and tenements to your seid besecher, and divers 
other personys to the use of the seid Sir ^ John, terme of his 
lif, and aftir his decese to the use of your seid besecher. And 
moreover, for as moch as your seid besecher was in dowte 
whedir God wold send hym tyme of life to execute the seid 
apoyntement, intendyng that th'effect of the old purpose of 
the seid Sir John Fastolff schuld not be all voyded, thow it 
so fortuned your seid besecher cowd not performe the seid 
apoyntement, mevid the seid Sir John Fastolff that, not with- 
standyng the seid apoyntement, that he aftir the seid feffement 
mad shuld make his will for the seid college, to be mad in all 
maner wise as thow the seid Sir John Fastolff and your seid 
besecher shuld not make "- the seid apoyntement ; and that aftir 
that, the seid apoyntement to be ingrosid and made so that 
the seid college shuld hold be the same apoyntement of your 
seid besecher, and ellis this seid will of the seid Sir John 

1 ' Sir.' — This word is omitted in the first copy. 

2 ' Shuld not make.' — These words are interlined in place of the word * left,' 
which is erased. 

54 



EDWARD IV 

Fastolff to stand in effect for executyng of his seid purpose. i462(?) 
And sone aftir this comunicacion and apoyntement the seid 
feffcment was mad acordynge, and season deliverid to your seid 
besecher at the seid plase edified in Caster, as well as at the 
seid maners, londs, and tenements, the seid Sir John Fastolff 
beyng present at delivery of season mad to your seid besecher 
of the seid plase and maner of Caster, where the seid Sir John, 
more largely expressyng the seid will and entent, deliverid 
your seid besecher possession with his owne hands, declaryng 
to notabill personys there the same feffement to be made to 
the use of the seid Sir John as for terme of his lif only, and 
aftir his decese to the use of your seid besecher and his heyrs ; 
and divers tymes in divers yeres aftir declared his entent in 
like wise to divers personys. And aftir, be gret deliberacion 
and oft communicacion of the seid mater, the seid Sir John 
Fastolff and your seid besecher comenauntyd ^ and apoynted 
be writyng thoroughly for the seid mater so that your seid 
besecher shuld have the seid plase and all the seid maners, 
londs, and tenements in Norfolk, Suffolk, and Norwich, to 
hym and to his heyrs ; and that he shuld found a college of 
vij. monkes or prestes withinne the seid plase perpetually as is 
before seid, and to pay iiij.*"'- [4000] mark to be disposed in 
certeyn yers for the sowle of the seid Sir John Fastolff; the 
whech apoyntement declarid and red before the seid Sir John 
Fastolff, be good deliberacion was be the seid Sir John fully 
concludid, agreyd and stabilisshid for his last will in that 
behalve. 

And also the seid comenauntes and apoyntementes eftsonis 
callid to remembraunce be the seid Sir John Fastolff, the same 
Sir John, for certeyn consideracions movyng hym, be his word, 
withowt writyng, dischargid your seid besecher of the seid 
somme of iiij."'* mark, desiryng hym so to ordeyne that ich of 
the seid monkes or prestes shuU yerly have as the prestes of 
the chauntry of Heylesdon had, and that vij. pore men shuU 
also be founde yerly in the seid plase inperpetuite to pray for 
the sowles above sayd. 

[And aftir, that is to sey the Satirday, Sonday, and Monday 

* So spelt in both copies. 

55 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

I462(?) next before the decese of the seid Sir John, the same Sir John, 
remembryng divers maters and intents in his mynd necessary 
for the wele of his sowle, wheche were not expressid in the 
seid will and apoyntement, nowther in his testament, and that 
he wold have one will mad and wrete conteynyng the seid 
apoyntements, as well as the seid other maters not declarid in 
his intent and will acordyng, comaundid to have it so ingrosid 
and wrete,] ^ And where your seid besecher hath don his 
part acordyng to the will and apoyntements of the seid Sir 
John, as well in fyndyng of the seid prestes and pore men as 
in all other thyngs that to hym belongyth to do in that behalfe ; 
and, this not with standyng, William Yelverton, Knyght, and 
William Jenney, whech be infeffid joyntly with your seid 
besecher in divers of the seid maners, londs and tenements, 
have^ mad a sympill entre in all the seid maners in Suffolk, 
and chargid the baylifs, fermors, and tenaunts of all the seid 
maners to pay hem the profitez and revenews of the same 
maners, londs, and tenements ; and thus, contrary to th'entent 
of the seid feffement, and contrary to the will of the seid Sir 
John Fastolff, thei trobill and lette your seid besecher to take 
the profitez of the seid maners, londs, and tenements ; of 
whech your seid besecher hath no remedy at the comen lawe. 
Wherfore please your good and gracious Lordship to direct 
severall writts of subpena to the seid William and William, 
chargyng hem severally upon a peyne convenient to appere 
before your Lordship in the Chauncery at a certeyn day be 
your Lordship to be limityd, to answer to these premisses, and 
to do as right and consiens requirith. And your seid besecher 
shall pray God for yow. 

The following article is added in the Jirst copy ivith many corrections : — 

And aftir, late before the disease of the seid Sir John FastolfF, he wold and 
ordeynid that on wryting shuld be mad of the fundacion of the seid college aftir 
the forme of the seid apoyntement mad with your seid besecher, and of diverses 
othir articles conteynid in his seid former willes, not conserning the seyd colegge 
and also of divers maters wheche he remembrid necessary for the wele of his 
sowle, that were nevir expressid in writyng before, joyntly to geder expressyng 
his hole and inter and last will and intent in all. 

^ The clause between brackets is cancelled in the first copy. 
2 This word is interlined in the second copy only. 

S6 



EDWARD IV 

531 

JOHN RUSSE TO JOHN PASTONi 

T'o my right honourahyl and worshypfull maisier^ my 
Maister John Paston. 

PLESE your worshypfull maistership to wette, here is a 1462 
ship of Hith, wyche seith that John Cole cam from 
the west cost on Wednysday last past ; and he seyth 
that the fleet of shippis of this londe met with Ix. seile of 
Spanyards, Brettenys, and Frenshemen, and there tok of hem 
1. [50], wherof xij. shyppys were as gret as the Grace de Dewe; 
and there is slayn on thys partyes the Lords Clynton^ and 
Dakyr,^ and many jentilmen juve (?) * and othyr, the nombre 
of iiij."*'- [4000] ; and the seid Spanyards were purposyd with 
marchaundise in to Flaundres. My Lord of Warwyks shyp, 
the Mary Grace and the TrenytSy hadde the grettest hurt, 
for they wer formost. God send grace, thys be trew. On 
Thursday last past at London was no tydings in serteyn where 
the flet was, nor what they had doon, and therfore I fere the 
tydings the more. 

Item, sir, as for tydings at London, ther were arystyd be 
the tresorer xl. seyles lyeng in Temse, wherof many smale 
shyppis ; and it is seyd it is to carye men to Caleyse in all 
haste, for feer of the Kyng of Fraunce for a sege. And it 
was told me secretly there were CC. in Caleyse sworn contrary 
to the Kyngs well, and for defaute of there wages ; and that 
Qwen Marget was redy at Boleyn with myche sylver to paye 
the soudyers, in cas they wold geve here entresse. Many 
men be gretly aferd of thys mater, and so the tresorer hath 
mych to do for thys cause. 

^ [From Fenn, i. 262.] This letter was evidently written not very long after 
No. 529. The fleet mentioned here and in that letter is that referred to in the 
preliminary note to No. 518, p. 4.1, Note i. 

2 John, Lord Clinton. The rumour was false, as he was summoned to Parliament 
in 1463. Nicolas supposes he died about 1465. 

3 Richard Fynes, Lord Dacre of the South, who was Lord Clinton's father-in-law. 
He did not really die till 1484. 

* This word, Fenn says, is doubtful in the original MS. 

57 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1462 Item, sir, as for tydings out of Ireland, ther wer many 

men at London at the feyre of the contres next them of 
Ireland, and they sey thys iij. wyks came there neythyr shyp 
nor boot out of Irelond to bryng no tydings ; and so it 
semyth there is myche to doo there be the Erie of Pembrook.^ 
And it is seyd that the Kyng shuld be at London as on 
Satyrday or Sonday last past, and men deme that he wold 
to Caleyse hym selfe ; for the soudyors are so wyld there, that 
they wyll not lette in ony man but the Kynge or my Lord 
Warwyk. 

Othyr tydings the were come to London, but they were 
not publyshyd ; but John Wellys shal abyde a day the lenger 
to know what they are. 

No mere un to you, my right honourable maister, at thys 
tyme, but Jesu send yow youre herts desyre, and amende hem 
that wold the contrary. 

Your bedman and conty[n]wal servaunt, 

John Russe. 

JOHN PASTON, JUNIOR, TO HIS FATHERS 

'To my ryth reverent and worchepfull fadyr^ John Pasion, 
be thys delyveryd in hast. 

RYTH reverent and worchepfull fadyr, I recomand me 
on to yow, beseechyng yow lowly of your blyssyng. 
Plesyt you to have knowlage that my Lord^ is pur- 
posyd to send for my Lady, and is lyke to kepe his Crystmas 
here in Walys, for the Kyng hathe desyered hym to do the 
same. Wherfor I beseche yow that [ye] * wole wychesave to 
send me sume mony by the berer herof ; for, in good fey the, 
as it is not on knowyng to yow that I had but ij. noblys 
in my purse, whyche that Rychard Call took me by your 

1 Jasper Tudor, Earl of Pembroke, half-brother to Henry vi. 

2 [From Fenn, i. 266.] In the month of October 14.62, as we learn from William 
Worcester, Margaret of Anjou came out of France, whither she had fled in spring, 
with a force of 2000 men, landed on the coast of Northumberland, and laid siege to 
Bamborough, which she took and placed in the keeping of the Duke of Somerset. 

3 The Duke of Norfolk. * Omitted in original. 



NOT. I 



EDWARD IV 

comandement, when 1 departyd from yow owt of Norwyche. 1462 
The berer herof schuld bye me a gowne with pert of the ^^o^- ^ 
mony, if it plese yow to delyver hym as myche mony as he 
may bye it with ; for I have but on gowne at Framyngham 
and an other here, and that is my levere gowne, and we must 
were hem every day for the mor part, and one gowne with- 
owt change wyll sone be done. 

As for tydyngs, my Lord of Warwyk yed forward in to 
Scotland as on Saterday^ last past with xx.™'- [20,000] men; 
and Syr Wylliam Tunstale is tak with the garyson of Bam- 
borowth, and is lyke to be hedyd, and by the menys of Sir 
Rychard Tunstale ^ is owne brodyr. 

As sone as I here any more tydyngys, I schall send hem 
yow by the grace of God, who have yow in Hys kepyng. 
Wretyn in hast, at the Castle of the Holte,' upon Halowmas 
Daye. 

Your sone and lowly servaunt, 

J. Paston, Junior. 

533 

JOHN PASTON THE YOUNGEST TO 
JOHN PASTON THE ELDER* 

T'o my ryth worchepful brodyr John Fasten^ the elder^ sone of 
John Paston^ Esquyer, be thys delyveryd in hast. 

RYTH worchepfull brodedyr, I recomaunde me to yow. dec. i 1 
Plesyt yow to wet, that as thys day we had tydyngs 
here, that the Scottys wyll come in to Inglend with in 
vij. days aftyr the wrytyng of thys lettyr, for to rescue these 
iij. castellys, Alnewyk, Donsamborowe ^ and Bameborowe, 
whyche castellys wer besegyd, as on yesterdaye. And at the 

* 30th October. 

2 Sir Richard Tunstal was on Queen Margaret's side, while his brother William, 
it seems, was on that of King Edward. ^ In Denbighshire. 

* [From Fenn, i. 272.] The sieges mentioned in this letter took place, accord- 
ing to Warkworth, in December of the first year of Edward iv., i.e. 146 1 j but 
according to William Worcester in 1462. The dates of the Privy Seal writs prove 
that the latter is right, and that Edward iv. was at Durham in December 1462. 

° Dunstanborough. 

59 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1462 sege of Allnewyk lythe my Lord of Kent and the Lord 
DEC. 1 1 Scalys ; and at Donsameborow castyll lythe the Erie of Wyr- 
cetyr [and] Syr Rafe Grey; and at the castyll of Bameborow 
lythe the Lord Montagwe and Lord Ogyll, and othyr dyvers 
Lordys and gentylmen that I knowe not ; and ther is to hem 
owt of Newe Castyll ordynans inowe, bothe for the segys and 
for the feld, in cas that ther be ony feld takyn, as I trow there 
shall none be not yet, for the Scottys kepe no promes. My 
Lord of Warwyk lythe at the castyll of Warcorthe, but iij. 
myle owt of Alnewyk, and he rydyth dayly to all thes 
castelys for to overse the segys ; and if they want vataylys, 
or any othyr thyng, he is redy to pervey it for them to hys 
power. The Kyng comandyd my Lord of Norfolk ^ for to 
condyth vetaylys and the ordynans owt of New Castyll on 
to Warcorthe Castyll, to my Lord of Warwyk ; and so my 
Lord of Norfolk comandyd Syr John Howard, Syr William 
Peche, Syr Robert Chamberlyen, Rafe Ascheton and me, 
Calthorp and Gorge, and othyr, for to go forthe with the 
vytalys and ordynans on to my Lord of Warwyk ; and so we 
wer with my Lord of Warwyk with the ordynans and vytalys 
yesterdaye. The Kyng lythe at Durham, and my Lord of 
Norfolk at New Castyll. We have pepyll inow here. In cas 
we abyd here, I pray you purvey that I may have here more 
mony by Crystmas Evyn at the ferthest, for I may get leve 
for to send non of my wagyd men home ageyn ; ne man can 
get no leve for to go home but if they stell a wey, and if they 
myth be knowe, they schuld be scharply ponyschyd. Mak as 
merry as ye can, for ther is no joperte toward not yet. And 
ther be any joperte, I schall sone send yow word, by the grase 
of God. I wot well ye have more tydyngys then we have 
here, but thes be true tydyngs. 

Yelverton and Jeney ar lek for to be gretly ponyschyd, 
for because they came not hedyr to the Kyng. They ar 
morkyn [markea] well inowe, and so is John Bylyngforthe and 
Thomas Playter; wherefor I am ryth sory. I pray yow let 
them have wetyng therof, that they may purvey their excuse 

* John Mowbray, who succeeded his father in the dukedom of Norfolk in 1461. 
He was at this time only eighteen years of age. 

60 



EDWARD IV 

in hast, so that the Kyng may have knowlage why that they 1462 
come not to hym in ther one personys ; let them come or dec. i i 
send ther excuse to me in wrytyng, and I schall purvey that 
the Kyng schall have knowlage of ther excuse ; for I am well 
aqueyntyd with my Lord Hasty ngys, and my Lord Dakarys,^ 
whyche be now gretest abowt the Kyngys person ; and also 
I am well aqueyntyd with the yonger Mortymere, Fererys, 
Hawte, Harpor, Crowmer, and Bosewell, of the Kyngys 
howse. 

1 pray yow let my grandam ^ and my cosyn Clere ^ have 
knowlage how that I desyryd you to let hem have knowlage 
of the tydyngys in thys letyr, for I promysyd for to send 
them tydyngs. 

I pray yow let my modyr* have cnowelage how that I, and 
my felawscep, and your servauntys ar, at the wrytyng of this 
lettyr, in good hell, blesyd be God. 

I pray yow let my fadyr have knowlage of thys lettyr, and 
of the todyr lettyr that I sent to my modyr by Felbryggys 
man; and how that I pray bothe hym and my modyr lowly 
of her blyssyngys. 

I pray yow that ye wole send me some lettyr how ye do, 
and of your tydyngys with yow, for I thynk longe that I here 
no word fro my modyr and yow. 

I pray yow that thys bill may recomand me to my systyr 
Margery, and to my mastres Jone Gayne, and to all gode 
mastyrys and felawys within Castyr. I sent no lettyr to my 
fadyr, never syn I departyd fro yow, for I kowd get no man 
to London, and never sythe. 

I pray yow in cas ye spake with my cosyn Margaret 
Clere, recomande me to hyr ; and Almythy God have yow in 
Hys kepyng. 

Wretyn at Newcastyll on Saterday next aftyr the Consep- 
sion of owyr Lady. 

Your, John Paston, the 

Yongest. 

I pray yow let Rychard Call se thys lettyr. 

* See p. 57, Note 3. 2 Agnes Paston. 

3 Elizabeth, widow of Robert Clere of Ormcsby. * Margaret Paston. 

61 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

534 

[JOHN] PASTON TO [THE DUKE OF SUFFOLK] i 

1462-7 ^ I ^HAT it please my lordis good grase to be good lord 
I and supporter of Paston in his right and possession 
•^ of the maner till his right can be lawfully or be trete 
dispreved by his adversaries, consideryng that the said Paston 
is my lordis homager and was nevir ayens his lordship and 
that my lord is not gretly behold to do for the seid Pastons 
adversaries as he understandith. 

And in case my lord woll not supporte the seid Paston in 
his right but be indifferent athwyx bothe parties, that thanne 
it please my lorde to have consideracion to the right of the 
mater as folowyth in articles and ther upon to be remembird 
whedir it be resonably desired by William Jenney or by 
Debenham as his waged man or for his sake that Paston 
shuld leve the possession or the takyng of the profitez of the 
seid maner. 

First to be remembird that the seid maner aswell as the 
maner of Nakton were Sir John Fastolffis, and that the seid 
Paston of the seid maners toke estatis at Cotton and attorne- 
ment of the tenauntis viij. or ix. yere goo, in such wise as the 
tenauntes can reporte, and continued there in possession aswell 
in the live of the seid Sir John as sithen, and hath take the 
profitez therof sith the discese of the said FastoliF, except 
for the terme of Mighelmes a yere passed, whech tyme the 
tenauntes were compellid by fors of distresses to pay ayens 
ther willes part of the seid profitez. 

And that also the title of the seid Paston to the seid 
maner is not all only by the seid fefFement but aswell by a 
graunt and bargeyn made a thwyx the seid Fastolff and the 

1 [Add. MS. 34,889, f. 182.] This petition must have been drawn up at the end 
of 1462 or in the beginning of 1463, which would be considered still 1462 in the old 
computation. It must have been fully three years after Fastolt's death, which took 
place on the 5th November 1459, and the imprisonment of Richard Calle in 146 1 
(see No. 487) is referred to as having taken place 'at Michaelmas the year past.' 
The nobleman to whom the petition is addressed seems to be the Duke of SufFolk. 

62 



EDWARD IV 

seid Paston as by the last will of the seid FastolfF, where by 1462-3 
the seid Paston ought to take the hole profitez of the seid 
maner, and also it is lefull to the seid Paston to kepe the 
seid maner with fors, consideryng he hath be in possession 
iij. yere and more; hough be it, the seid Paston intendyth to 
kepe the seid maner pesibly and non otherwise. And that the 
pretense and cleyme of the seid Jenney is that he schuld be 
infeifed with the seid Paston in the seid maner; by whech 
pretense, if it were trewe, yet the seid Paston by reason shuld 
not be put out of the seid maner, for who som evir had titell 
therto by fefFement or by executrie, Paston shuld be on that 
had title ; hough be it, the seid Paston cleymyth not in that 
forme, but by the titell of his bargeyne and by the seid 
Fastolffis will. 

Item, to be remembird, whech tyme as my lord had 
wretyn his lettirs and sent his servauntes for the eyde and 
supporte of the seid Paston to take the profitez of the seid 
maner of Nakton as of the maner of Cotton, desyryng the 
tenauntes to the seid Paston, the seid Jenney wold have no 
consideracion therto ; hough be it, though he were a fefFe he 
had no titell to take the seid profitez, consideryng he is non 
executor, but presumptuously, havyng no consideracion to my 
lordis lettir ner sendyng, compellid the tenauntis by distresses 
to pay hym more besely thanne any fefFe or executor, and now 
at this same tyme hath be at Nakton and reseyvid as moch 
mony as he coud gader there. 

Item, where at Mighelmesse the yere passed the seid 
Paston sent his sone, a servaunt of my Lordis, and also 
Richard Calle, servaunt to the seid Paston put to hym by 
my Lordis fader,^ to reseyve the profitez of the seid maner 
as thei had do many yeres before, the seid Jenney ded arest 
the seid Calle for a thef and as a thef caried hym to th'entent 
that the tenauntes shuld be discoraged to pay the seid Paston. 
Whech tyme, at the request of the said Calles kynred, it 
pleased my lord to write to the seid Jenney and Debenham 

1 William de la Pole, the unfortunate Duke of Suffolk, murdered in 1450. It is 
a piece of information which we do not meet with elsewhere, that Richard Calle 
entered the service of the Pastons by this dxxke's recommendation. 

63 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1462-3 for the deliverauns of the seid Calle; to which letteris they 
nouther toke hede nor reputacion, but by that sotilte reseyved 
the profitez of the seid maner, the seid Paston havyng non 
help by my seid Lordis writyng nor sendyng. 

Wherfore please my Lordis good lordship to supporte the 
seid Paston in kepyng of his right and possession till it be dis- 
preved or knowe onlawfull, and the seid Paston will applye to 
such meanes as it pleasith my Lord to take wherby the right 
of the mater may be undirstond and determined. 

And also that it like my lord to remembir that it is not 
behofefuU for any prinse lightly to geve trust or to applye 
to the desires of any persones that have geve hym cause of 
mistrust. 

535 

[JOHN PASTON TO MARGARET PASTON] 1 



1463 (?) X RECOMAND me to yow and have reseyvid your lettir, 
JAN. 14 I which causith me to write in the lettir that I send 
"^ to yow, Daubeney and Richard Calle, certeyn articles 
touchyng the rewle of myn hows and myn livelode, as ye 
shall undirstand whanne ye see hem. Also, I send yow in 
the same lettir a bille of all the malt that remaynd at Mighel- 
mes. I suppose ye have non such of it. Nevirthelesse it had 
be convenient it had be had amongis your servauntis and yow. 
Also I woll that ze warne both Daubeney and Richard Calle 
that thei disclose nat what malt I have, ne what I shall selle, 
ne that on marchant knowe nat what an other hath, for ther is 
gret spies leid her at London for ingrosers of malt to heyghne 
the prise ; hough be it myne is not but of myn owne growyng 
and my tenauntis. 

1 [Add. MS. 34.,889, f. 183.] The MS. of this letter Is a rough draft in John 
Paston's hand, and there can be no doubt to whom it was addressed. As to the 
year in which it was written there is no positive evidence ; but Daubeney and Calle 
were both with Margaret Paston in the beginning of 1463 {see No. 536), and the 
only thing against that date is that Margaret, writing to her husband (then in 
London) on the 1 9th, acknowledges only a letter of the 9th. This, however, might 
well be owing to the disturbed state of the country, or it may be that the present 
letter, which is only a draft, was not really despatched. 

64 



EDWARD IV 

Also I letc zow wete, I faile mony here and must nedys i463(?) 
have up mony at this tyme for sped of my maters, so that J-^^- H 
it may come up savely whanne James Gresham and other 
attornes come up at the begynnyng of this terme, with whom 
Richard Calle may come the same tyme. And peraventure 
some trusty carier ... at this tyme; and with hym myght 
some mony come trussid in some fardell, not knowynge to the 
carier that it is no mony but some other clothe or vestement 
of silk or thyng of charge. Wherfore take avise of such as ye 
trust, and purvey that I may have up at this tyme j. c. li. of 
gold after the old coynage and xxli. in grotes. 

Item, if I ^ myght have sur cariage, I wold have heder all 
the gylt plate that Richard Calle leyd up, he can tell wer and I 
trowe ye know also; and ij. potell pottis and a rosting iron 
of silver (?) lyth at the same place, for it shuld^ stand me in 
gret stoher if it mygth be do closly and suerly. Item, take 
trew men of yowr counsel. 

Wret the morwe next after Sent Hillary. 

Item leve a bill indorcid what ye take awey if ye take any. 
— Your own, &c. 



MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON' 

To my right worchepful hosbond^ John Paston^ 
be this letter delivery d in hast. 

RIGHT worchepfull hosbond, I recommand me to you. 1463 
Please you to wete that I received a letter frome you jan. 19 
on the Sonday* next after Twelfthe day, weche was sent 
be a prest of Seynt Gregorys paryche of Norwic ; and wher as 
ye mervaylyd I sent you no wrytynggs of suche letters as ye 
sent me be for, I sent you a answer of the substauns of suche 

1 < Item, I I,' MS. 2 . shuld shul,' MS. 

3 [From Fenn, iv. 150.] This letter refers to a coming election of knights of the 
shire, which seems to be for the Parliament which met on the 29th April 1463. No 
other general election of Edward iv.'s time will suit the date, and it is quite certain 
that it was written during Edward's reign. * 9th January. 

VOL. IV. E 6^ 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1463 maters as ye have wretyn of me be for (be Playter), the weche 
JAN. 19 j^g ^qJ(J j^g ^ ggj^^ j^gj^ ^Q y.Q^ ^Q London. And as towchyng 

the erands that ye sent to me for to do to Richard Calle, I 
have do as ye command me to do, and callyd upon hym ther- 
for, bothe be for your writyng and sithyn ; he thar have non 
excuse for defaute of leyser, for he hathe be but ryght litill her 
syn ye departyd hens. He is owght at this tyme, and whan 
that he comythe home I shall make hym make yow a cler bylle 
of the receyt of your lyvelod, and Fastolf bothe ; and I shale 
send yow a cler bylle of my receyts, and also of my payments 
owght thereof ageyn ; and as for suche erands that shuld be 
do to Sir Thomas Howys, I have shewyd Richard Calle your 
writyng, and told hym your entent, as for suche thyngs as ye 
wold he shuld sey to hym on hys none heed. Also I have do 
your erands to my moder and to my cosyn Cler ^ after your 
writyng. Item, I have spoke to John Adam and to Playter of 
your entent of the last bylle that ye sent me, and they sey they 
wolle do after your entent as moche as they may, and ye shall 
have a answer therof in hast. 

Item, Sir Robert Coniors dinid with me this day, and shuyd 
me a letter that came frome the Kyng to hym, desyryng hym 
that he shuld a wayt upon hys welle be lovyd broder the Duke 
of Suffolk, at Norwiche, on Monday next comyng, for to be at 
the alection of knyghts of the chyer [shire'] ; and he told me 
that every jentylman of Norffolk and Suffolk that arne of any 
repetacion hathe writyng from the Kyng in lyke wyse as he 
had. I felle hym be his seyyng that he ys right welle disposyd 
to you ward ; he seythe ther shall no man make hym to be a 
geyns you in no mater. Skypwith shall telle you suche tydyngs 
as bethe in this contre, and of Thomas Gornay and of his man ; 
hym self is clerk convicte, and hys man is hangyn ; ye shall 
here her after what they and oder wer purposyd to a do to her 
master. 

I thank you hertely of your writyng to me be for that John 
Paston came home, for God knowith I thowght right longe 
tyle I hard frome you ; I shalle send word in writyng of 
suche tydings as we have her on Monday in hast. Daubeney 

^ Elizabeth, widow of Robert Clere of Ormesby. 

66 



EDWARD IV 

deseyryht to wet what tyme that it please you that he shuld 1463 
come ageyn to you. jan. 19 

My moder and many other folkys makyth moche of your 
son John, the elder, and right glad of hys comyng hom, and • 
lekyth reght welle hys demenyng. Heydon ^ son hathe bor 
owght the syyd stowtly her this Critstemes, and whan that he 
rydyth, he hathe iiij. or v. men with hym in a clothyng ; but 
he hathe but lytyl fafor in this contre but yf [unless] it be of 
the Bischop^ and of the Prior of Norwic.^ The seyd prior 
hathe grauntyd hym the stewerdchep that hys feder had . . . 
. . . . he hathe it under the Covent Seals, and Spylman,* 
his tutor, to lerne hym howe he shuld be demenyd .... 
. . . it is seyd abowght Bakynstorp that Herry Heydon 
shuld a seyd that it wer welle do that men of the .... 
shuld make redy her [their] bald batts ^ and her clot shon ® 

and go feche hom her knygts of chyer [shire] 

. . . Barney ; and it is promysyd hym that he shall be met 

with be cause of hys langage us a 

good world and a pesybyll. I shall purvey for all thyngs that 
ye have sent to me for, so that I ween ye shal be pleasyd. The 
blyssyd Trinite have you in Hys kepyng. Wretyn in hast, the 
Wednysday next .... Seynt Agnet. 

Your, M. P. 

537 

ABSTRACT 7 

Thomas Playter to John Paston 

Please your maistership wete, that as for my Lord of Norwich cosyns deth, JAn. 
Thomas Gurneys man hath confessed that he slewe hym by commaundment of 

* This must be Henry, son of John Heydon, Esq., Recorder of Norwich. — F. 

2 Walter Lyhert, Bishop from 1445 to 1472. — F. 

3 John Molet or Mowth, Prior from 1453 to 1471. — F. 

* Henry Spilman, afterwards Recorder of Norwich ; he was the founder of the 
Spilmans of Narborough, by marrying Ela, daughter and heir of William de Nar- 
borough. — F. 

s Bald batts seem to mean here ball bats, or bats to play at ball with. — F. 
8 Clot shorty clouted shoes — shoes shod with thin plates of iron. — F. 
^ These extracts are quoted by Fenn from a letter now lost, in reference to what 
is said in the last letter about Thomas Gumey and his man. 

67 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1 46 3 his maister, and confessed over that the same dager he slewe hym with, he kest 
JAN. i*^ ^^ ^ sege \ajakes\ whiche is founden and taken up al to-bowyd [bent together]^ 
for he cowde not breke it, and in prison is bothe he and his maister. 

Also on Thursday next after Cristemasse was a man slayn, by whom no 
man woot, nor what he is that was slayn no man knowe, his face is so mangled. 

538 

RICHARD CALLE TO JOHN PASTON 1 

To my ryght reverent and wurschip^fuW] mayster^ my Mayster 
John Paston in the Tnner Temple at London. 

[FEB.] ir\LESITH your goode maystrechip to witte that ther 
wT^ comen doune to the undrescheryff of Norwiche, a 
writte to a tache Mr. John P. the yongere, wherof I 
sende you a copy closed herin, but they woll not a reeste hym 
within Norwich ; but I undrestande ther is comen an other 
writte to the undrescheryff of Norfolk bothe for hym and me, 
and for all thoo that ben indyghted. Wherfore I purpose me 
to ride to Hoonyng to the scheryff thys day, to undrestande 
how he is disposed, and to desire hym to shewe favour to your 
pore tenaunts ; and as I feele hym disposed I schall send your 
maystreship answer. 

And as for tidyngs here in this contre, we have noon but 
that ther be many Frenchemen upon the see and do moche 
answer upon the coosts. Mr. Yelver[ton] knew of the comyng 
up of the teste within ij. dayes after they were goon, &c. My 
ryght reverent and wurschipful maystre, the blissed Trinite 
preserve and kepe and ferther you in all your maters. 

Sir William Wyllugby whas at Risynge Castell, and yester- 
day he come home a yenne. On Tentale hathe entred in to a 
parte of Felbregge lyvelod, and a corte holden, and the tenaunts 
retorned. Item, as for the cort that Deben[ham] schuld holde 
at Calcot we here not of it. 

Your pore servaunt and 
bedman, R. C. 

* [From Paston mss., B.M.] As the writ, of which a copy is subjoined to this 
letter, is dated on the 31st January in the second year of Edward iv. (1463), the letter 
itself must have been written in February. 

68 



EDWARD IV 

Rex vi[ce]comitibus Norwici, salutem. Praecepimus vobis quod capiatis 1 463 
Johannem Paston juniorem, nuper de Norwico, armigerum, si inventus fuerit in [feb.] 
balliva vestra, et eum salvo custodiatis, ita quod habeatis corpus ejus coram nobis 
a die Paschas in unum mensem ubicunque tunc fuerimus in Anglia, ad respon- 
dendum nobis de quibusdam feloniis et transgressionibus unde in comitatu nostro 
SufFolchias indictatus est. Et si prasdictus Johannes in balliva vestra inveniri 
non poterit, tunc ad duos comitatus in balliva vestra citra terminum prasdictum 
proximo tenendos juxta formam statuti in hujusraodi casu provisi proclamari 
faciatis quod idem Johannes sit coram nobis ad praefatum terminum ad respon- 
dendum nobis de prasmissis. Et habeatis ibi hoc breve. Teste Johanne 
Markham apud Westmonasterium, xxxj° die Januarii, anno regni nostri 
secundo. 

Croxton. 

Rotulo xxvj** R. Per contr' Anno secundo Regis Ed. iiij" r, xiij. Irrotulatur coram 
Rege de recordo, termino Hillarii anno secundo Regis Ed. iiij'', prout patet in rotulo 
infrascripto.^ 



539 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON 2 

PLEASE you to wet that Will. Jeney and Debham cam 
to Calcote on Wednysday before none, and ther they 
spake with Rysyng and John Smythe, and haskyd hem 
rent and ferme, and they seydyn they had payed you, and so 
they myght not paye hem. Also, ferthermore, they told hem 
that ye had hold a corte ther syn that they enteryd there. 
Than Jenney answerd ageyn * Be cause he held a corte here we 
mad hym hold corte at London, and so shall we make the to 
hold a corte at Ipysweche withowt thow wolt pay us the rent 
and ferme.' * Sir,' quod Rysyng, * I toke the ferme of my 
master and of Sir Thomas Howys.' Jenney seyd, * And as for 
Sir Thomas, he and we schall acord well i nowe.' And so they 
hahte seled up the berne dore and woll dryve a wey the catell 

* This note is to imply that the writ is enrolled among w^hat are called the Records 
on the Coram Rege Roll of Hilary term, 2 Edw. iv., rot. 26, a former writ against 
John Paston, junior, being enrolled in the Controlment Roll, 2 Edw. iv., rot. 13. 

2 [From Paston Mss., B.M.] This letter, though not addressed, seems to have been 
written by Margaret Paston to her husband. The election referred to must have been 
that for the Parliament of 1463. From one expression used it is clear that it was 
written some time before Easter, and the dispute with Jenney and Debenham about 
Calcote proves the date to a certainty. Compare Nos. 538 and 540. 

69 



or 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1463 bothe of the fermores and of the tenauntes, withowt the fermor 
^^^' and John Smythe woll fynd hem suerte to pay hem at Esterne, 
and Jen ney and Debham woll [be] bownd ageyn to hem in a 
obligacion of xl/f. to save hem harmelese ageyns you. And so 
as yet Rysyng standythe under award at Leystofte. So Rysyng 
hathe sent word to me that 1 shall knowe thys nyght or ellis to 
morowe what end they hathe mad. 

Item, as towchyng the burges of Yermothe they wer chosyn 
on Wednysday. The Baly Wydwell ys on ; and as for the 
todyr the Bischoppe sent to the towne for to have a man of hys 
owne, and so they be not acordyd yit of hym ; en cas they may 
not acord, John Rus shall be the todyr. 

Item, as towchyng Grene, a came not to Caster on Thurs- 
day, for he went to Norwich the same day, and so he is yet 
ther. Daubeney hathe spokyn with Watkyn Shypdam for to 
be at Beyton on Monday to kepe a corte ther ; and so he woll 
be at Caster on Sonday and spek with you, for he seythe that 
Fastolfe ^ hathe mad a cleyme ther to ; that is the cause he 
wolle comon and speke with you ther of hym seliF. 

Item, I can not, ner Daubeney nowther, fynd your wyght 
boke ; it is not in the trussyng cofyr, ner in the sprucheste 
nothyr. Jon Walsham toke me a quayer, I suppose it lo[n]gythe 
to the same boke, that same I send you, and the byllis of Wal- 
cote with ale sealyd. Wretyn this day. 

By your, M. P. 



On the back are the foU(ywing accounts y ivritten, in a very careless hand, by Richard 
Calle:— 

Forene^ Recepf. 

De Johanne Prentice de Castelaere ad festum Sanctae FIdis per 

manus vicarii de Sporle, ....... Ixj. 

De Roberto Wylley clerico post Nativitatem Domini, , . cs. 

De Willelmo Whyte, vigil' Conversionis Sancti Pauli, . . vj//. xiijj. iiiji/. 

De Edmundo Wynter, mason, de Bermynghem circa Conver- 

sionem Sancti Pauli, ....... v]s. viijV. 

De Willelmo Elys de Wynterton ad vPascha, .... vjj. viij^. 

De Warino Herman ad Pascha, ...... xiijj. \n]d. 

De Johanna Bakeney uxore Gerard, xiij/. iiijV. 



* Thomas Fastolf of Cowhawe. 
70 



EDWARD IV 

Item, de Johanne Russe. ^4^3 

Rec. de Willelmo Norwich et M. Johanne Smythe venditio FEB. 

jocalium Johannis Berney de Redham pro tant' denar' pro or 

me pro debito ipsius Berney apud Redham solut', . . xx/i. xv'y. MARCH 

Recepf de Tesauro. 

Inprimis, pro viagio Johannis Paston, Jun. cum Rege et aliis 
causis (?) versus Annewyke de denariis receptis de debito 
prioris Norwicensis, ........ Mi. 

Item, de auro remanente de Coppes in eadem baga, . . Ixj. 

Item, de baga pecuniae prestandae eodem tempore, ... viij. marc'. 

Item, de remanent' in forcerio tesaur' li'berat' * frater meus 

Will' Yelv'n, xj. iiij^. 

'Termino Michaelis? 

Item, de pecunia remanente cum Thoma Gresham apud Lon- 

Qon; termino Michaelis xx//., termino Hillarij, xxxiijj. 

iiij^., xxj//. xiijj. 'm]d. 

Item, de tesauro London termino Michaelis, 1. marc', termino ) .• , 

Hillarij 1. marc', termino Paschas 1. marc', . . • ) 

Item, de tesauro NorfFolk cariat' versus London termino Paschae, 

ultra xl//. remanens {sic) apud terminum Trinitatis, . . xl. marc'. 



540 

ABSTRACT 3 
[John Paston] to John Pampyng, Richard Calle, and William Wykes. 

Remember my instructions about bills and actions against Debenham by my I4"3 
tenants at Calcote. Make a * remembrance apart ' of the ground on which every 
trespass has been committed, whether it be in my lands or in those of my tenants, 
and whether the land was holden of me by Calcote Hall fee, or Freton Hall 
fee, lest Debenham justify [on the plea that] he took them elsewhere. As my 
tenants at Cotton have been compelled to pay much money to Jenney and 
Debenham against their wills, I would, as I have told John Paston the younger, 
that he should ride to Cotton with Richard Calle and such friendship as he can 
get, and demand my duties, except from those who had been compelled to pay 
the others. The latter to take actions next term against Debenham. Will 
respite them for this once all they have paid, till it may be recovered by law ; 

^ The words ' tesaur' liberat' ' are interlined and apparently intended to be inserted 
here. I must leave the grammar of the sentence as it stands in the original. The 
word at the end, which I believe stands for < Yelverton,' is very ambiguous from the 
careless writing. 

2 These words are inserted between the lines, but whether they were intended for 
a heading is a little uncertain. 

3 [From Paston mss., B.M.] 

71 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1463 that is, provided they ask it: otherwise, will politicly put them in jeopardy of 
losing their farms. Desires Calle to make a roll of the tenants and when he 
comes to Cotton enter therein how much cattle has been distrained from each. 

It appears by the last letter that a writ was issued, evidently at the suit of Deben- 
ham, against John Paston, junior, and the other agents of his father in Suffolk. From 
the present paper it would seem that John Paston also instituted a prosecution on 
behalf of his tenants against Debenham. We shall find by later letters that these 
suits were going on in 14.63, and were not terminated in the beginning of the follow- 
ing year. The Ms. from which the above abstract has been made is a draft with a 
heading in John Paston's hand. On the back are notes of the Statutes of Westminster 
and of Richard 11. touching scandalum magnatum, etc. 



RALPH LAMPET'S TESTIMONY i 

MARCH 19 f I ^O all tho to whom this present wrytyng shall come, 
I RaufF Lampet, Squier, sendyth gretyng in our Lord. 
And forasmoch as it is meritory to here witnesse of 
trought, and that I knowe and herd the disposicion and will of 
Ser John FastolfF, knyght, aftir the forme folowyng, and am 
requered to sey the trought, I record and testifie, and here 
witnesse that Ser John FastolfF, knyght, abought the tyme of 
her vest was v. yere, that was the yere of our Lord M'cccclvij. 
at Caster, fast by Mekyll Yarmouth, in the Shire of NorfFolk, 
in presens of divers persones that tyme callid to by the seid Ser 
John, ded make estat and feffement and livery of seison of the 
maner of Caster aforeseid, and other maners, londs, and tene- 
ments in NorfFolk to John Paston, Squier, and other. And at 
that livery of season thereof delivered, as well by the hands of 
the seid Ser John as be other, the seid Ser John FastolfF by his 
owne mouth declared his will and entent of that feffement and 
livery of season, mad to the use of the seid Ser John as for 
duryng his life only, and aftir his decese to the use of the seid 
John Paston and his heyrs. And also the seid Ser John seid 
and declared, that the seid John Paston was best frend, and 
helper, and supporter to the seid Ser John, and that it was his 
will that the seid John Paston shuld have and inherite the same 

* [Tanner ms., 106, f. 35 b.] 
72 



EDWARD IV 

maners, londs, and tenements, and other, aftir his decese, and 1463 
ther to dwelle and abide, and kepe howsold, seying that he march 19 
knew well that the disposicion of the seid Paston was to do 
good in the contry, and be non oppressor of the pore pepill. 
And the seid Ser John desired me, and Daune William Boken- 
ham, that tyme Prior of Yarmouth, beynge presente, to record 
as he had seid to us. And this I record and witnesse for 
trought be the feyght that I owe to God and all Seynts. In 
witnesse wherof to this my writyng I have set to my seall and 
signe manuell the xix. day of March, the third yer of the reigne 
of Kyng Edward the Fourth. 

^ R. Lampet. 



542 

ABSTRACT » 

Raff Lampet to his Cousin Daubeney 

Reminds him that he spoke to him at Redham, in the church, about certain Date 
lands ' which John of Berney bought of me,' and for which there is still owing uncer- 
to him 13s. 4d., and a rent of 6d. four years in arrear. Begs him to speak to 
Master Paston to get him the money. 



tarn 



We place this letter immediately after another document signed by Ralph Lampet, 
the exact date being uncertain and immaterial. It is probably, however, about this 
period, as it may be surmised to be after the death of John Berney. 



543 



ABSTRACT 2 

Testimony of Sir Roger Chamberlain, witnessed by Reginald Tylneye, 
prior of Ixworth, and Sir John Rose [a brother of the house], that he was with 
the Duke of Norfolk in September before Sir John Fastolf died, when my 
Lord urged Fastolf to sell him the reversion of Caister, or (as he wished to 
give it to the Abbey of St. Benet's) to exchange it for a manor of my Lord's 
in South Walsham, which lay more convenient for the Abbey. Sir John, 
however, begged him not to press it, as he had appointed with his cousin, John 



^ [From Paston mss., B.M.] 

2 [From MS. Phillipps, 9735, No. 280.] 



73 



1463 

APRIL 6 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1 46 3 Paston, to have Caister and all his other livelode in Norfolk and Suffolk in 
APRIL 6 order to endow a college of seven priests and seven poor men. My Lord said, 
many thought Sir John would make Paston his heir ; to which he replied that 
there was no man living that he would like better to be his heir, and begged my 
Lord to be his good lord if it so fortuned, which the Duke promised to do. 
Has heard the Duke since often acknowledge that Sir John had declared plainly 
he would make Paston his heir. Not having his own seal present, has sealed 
this with that of the prior of Ixworth, and requested him to put his seal to it 
besides. Ixworth, 6 April 1463. 



544 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON 1 

To my rytz wurchepfull mayster^ Jon Paston^ in hast. 

MAY 6 I '^ YT wurschipfuU hosbond, I recommand me to zou, 
r^ desyring hertyly to her of zour wellfar, praying zou 
to wete, that I [have] spoken with Strawngs wyf of 
the matter that ze spoken to me of ; and sche seyth pleynly to 
me, be her feyth, that sche knew never non seche ne never 
herd of non scheche, and told to me in lyk wyse as sche had 
seyd to Jamys Gloys. And sche seyd to me if sche kowd 
inquier of any other that sche thinght xuld have knowieche of 
any seche, sche xuld v/etyn of hem, and letyn me have know- 
ieche therof ; and if ze soppose that any other be in this 
contre that ye thync xuld have knowieche of this forseyd 
mater, yf ye wyll send me word ther of,^ I xall do. my part 
ther in. 

Also I have ben att Sweyngsthorp and spoken with Kokett, 
and he seyth that he woll don lyche as ye bad me that I xuld 
sey to hym for to don. And I have spokyn with the sexteyn, 
and seyd to hym as ye bad me that I xuld don, and he axid me 
ryt feythfuUy hw ye sped in zour materys. 

I teld hym that ze haddyn fayr be bests, and I seyd I 
hopyd that ze xuld don rytz well therin ; and he seyd that he 

* [From Fenn, iv. 188.] Our reason for believing this letter to have been written 
in the year 1463 will be seen in a footnote. 

74 



EDWARD IV 

supposyd that D.^ wold don for zou ; but he seyd he was 1463 
no hasty laborer in non mater. He seyd be hys feyth he wost "^^ 6 
qher a man was that laboryd to hym for amater ryth along 
tym, and alwey he be hestyd that he wold labor itt efFectualy, 
but qhyll he sewyd to hym that he kowd never have remedy 
of his mater ; and than qhan he thowth that he xuld no 
remedy have to sew to hym, he spak with Fynys,^ that is now 
Speker of the Parlment, and prayid hym that he wold don for 
hym in hys mater, and zaf hym areward ; and withinne ryth 
short tym after his mater was sped. And the seyd sexteyn^ 
and qther folkys that ben yowr ryth wele willers have kown- 
selyd me that I xuld kownsell zou to maken other menys than 
ye have made to other folks, that wold spede your materys 
better than they have don thatt ye have spoken to therof be 
for this tym. Sondery folks have seyd to me that they thynk 
veryly, but if [unless^ ye have my Lord of Suffolks * godelor- 
chyp, qhyll the werd [worl^l is as itt is, ye kan never leven in 
pese with owth ye have his godelordschep ; therfor I pray that 
with all myn berth, that ye wyll don yowr part to have his 
godelordschep and his love in ese of all the materis that ye 
have to don, and in esyng of myn hert also ; for be my trowth 
I am afferd ellys bothen of these materys the qhyche ye have 
in hand now, and of other that ben not don to yett, but 
if he wyl don for zou and be your godelord. I pray yow 
hertylye send me werd how ze don, and how ye speden in 
zour materys ; and I pray you as for seche thyngs as Jamys 
hath a byll of, that I may have hem as hastyly as ze may ; and 

^ Possibly John Damme. 

2 This looks like a mistake, for no Speaker of the name of Fynes is met with 
during this period. The expression, however, suggests that the letter was written 
about the beginning of a new Parliament, which could only have been that which 
met on the 29th April 1463. On the following day the Commons elected John Say 
as their Speaker, whose name Margaret Paston seems to have confounded with the 
family name of William Fenys, Lord Say, the trusty friend of Edward iv. who 
accompanied him into exile when he fled from his kingdom in 1470. It does not 
appear, however, that John Say, the Speaker, was related to that family. 

3 The Sacrist or Sexton of the Priory of Norwich was the officer who had the 
care of Sacra, or Holy Things, as the Church Plate, Copes, etc. ; he was likewise 
Secretary, Auditor, and Chancellor of the Convent, and had a Sub-sacrist or Deputy 
to perform the servile parts of his office. In 1444 Brother Richard de Walsham 
was appointed Sacrist. — F. 

* John de la Pole, Duke of Suffolk.— F. 

75 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1463 that ze wyll vowchesavc to bey apese of blak bukram for to 
MAY 6 lyn with a gown for me, I xuld bey me amurrey gown to gon 
in this somer, and leyn in the koler the satyn that ze zeve me 
for an hodde ; and I kan gettyn non gode bokeram in this 
town to lyn it with. The Holy Trinyte have yow in His 
kepyng, and send zou helth and good spede in all yowr 
maters. 

Wretyn att Norwyche, on ye Fryday nexst after Crowche- 
messe Day.^ 

Yours, M. P. 



545 

[JAMES GRESHAM] TO JOHN PASTON* 

To mygth rigth gooa and special! maister^ John Paston^ 
dwellyng at Heylesdon he syde Norwich. 

J"''^ T) IGTH reverent, &c. Please your maisterchip wete that 
r^ I resseived your letter whiche ye sent by Crome, and 
as for the examinacion of, &c. that I wrot to you of 
in my former letter to be taken on the Munday or on Tewys- 
day, &c. this was the cause. Ye yafF me informacion at my 
last departyng fro you that the murdre was don uppon the day 
nexst after Seynt Petre. And for doute lesse ye had be ougth 
at the comyng of my seid letter, and for dowte that I supposed 
that my maistres, your wyf, had not be remembred of the 
day, it caused me, accordyng to your informacion, to wryte 
the uttermost day for her remembrans. Neverthelesse, if ye 
certifie that ye toke the examinacion with in the yere and 
day, and sette the day in certayn, your certificat is sufficiant in 

1 Crouchmas Day, or the Invention of the Cross, was on the 3rd of May. — F. 

2 [From Paston Mss., B.M.] This letter seems to be in James Gresham's hand- 
writing. It is evident that it was written shortly after Midsummer. Rather more 
than a year and a day had elapsed since a murder committed on the morrow of 
St. Peter's Day {i.e. on the 30th June), and it is mentioned that Convocation was 
to sit some httle time after Relic Sunday, which always falls in the middle of July. 
Further, the King is said to be at Northampton, which he was in July 1463, and no 
other year appears to suit. 

76 



EDWARD IV 

lawe and shall bynd any of the parties to sey the contrary. 1463 
And also the writte is that ye schuld certefie sine dilatione^ and J^i-y 
no day expresly yoven you whan to certifie it ; wherfor ye 
may kepe uncertefiet tyl the nexst terme. And so do sir, for 
it schal do no hurt; but if ony questions or jangelyng schuld 
be mad when the examinacion was, let a sufficiant day with 
inne the yere be noysed, and if the teste be to schort we schal 
fynd the mene it schal be amendyd by hym that wrot it. For 
after the informacion that I had of Cromc the Sunday was 
the uttlirmest day, and therefor it was happy that sche was 
examined thenne. And where that ye wold I schuld tak the 
advice of Maister Markham, &c., if all thyng were laufull, and 
elles not, it is full hard to my self to determine the certaynte 
of every circumstans of the mater, and it is not gretely to be 
comuned of with other, nor to comune of casez lyke ; for 
whan the mater schuld come in revelysshon it wold cause 
prevy titlers and flaterers ougth of suche questions to ymagyn, 
and contryve mater of distourbans. Wherfor uppon the cer- 
teynte of myn determinacion I brak the mater to Master 
Markham, which called to hym Master Byngham, and so thei 
ij. meved Y.^ ; and after that mocion he kept not his owyn 
councell but brak to every man of it. Hou be it he was sore 
mevyd with it, I wote it well, and glad to take avyse and 
comfort of other personez than of Masters Markham and 
Byngham. Al circumstans were to long to wryte, but I hope 
to speke with you be tymes i nougth or ye schall nede to 
certefye, &c. And, sir, in conclucion. Masters Markham and 
Byngham thynk it sufficiant i nougth to take his promys and 
his othe with ougth obligacion that he schal mak amends if 
profe here after can be mad uppon hym. And to this Maister 
Markham prayed you to agre by the same token ye mevyd 
hym to sette an ende be twyx you and my masters your 
brethern. Neverthelesse if ye thynk this wey not sufficiant, 
ye may lete sum other handele the mater at hom to hym if 
that ye hope to gete good pref in the mater, for with ougth 
evydent proffis the mater schall be but noysefull to you, and 
cause men to thynk that it growyth of your ille wyll to hym 

1 Yelverton. 

77 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1463 ward, &c. ; for he noyseth and seyth, because of ille wyll 
JULY ye have caused a mad woman to take apell a yens hym. 

Item, sir, as for Leukenore he is not at London, but per- 
aventure I schal make hym to be meved in the mater here 
after. 

Item, I dede your erand to my maister your son. 

Item, as for John Say,^ he recomendyth hym to you, bothe 
for your billes and for your labour, and prayeth you if ony land 
that lyth for the priour ease mygth be aspyed, that ye wold 
help to gete it hym and send hym word ; and as for the 
morteysyng and at his cost and labour. 

Item, as for tydyngs, the Kyng and the counsell is at 

Northampton,^ and the Convocacion schall be 

after Relyk Sunday. And ther be ij. marchaunts 
come fro Caleys, and they mygth no leve have to com[e] . 

schuld bere the Kyng certeyn lettres and 

juste tytyngs that sege is comyng to Caleys. And trew[s] 
[ou]re Lady Day, as I herd sey. 

Item, it is talked that Duchemen and Englysshemen ben at 
contraversie with in 



JAMES GRESHAM TO MARGARET PASTON 3 

'To my right wurshepfull mastres, my Mastres Margret 
Paston^ at Caster. 

1463 1 ^LEASE it your good mastresship to wete that a fieri 

facias is come out of the Exchequir for Hue Fen to 

the ShirefF of NorfFolk to make levy of CC. mark of 

the propir goods and catels of my masters, as executor of Sir 

1 Probably the Speaker of the Parliament of 1463, whom Margaret Paston named 
Fynes in Letter 544. See p. 75, Note 2. 

2 According to the dates of the Privy Seals the King was at Northampton from 
the 8th to the 28th July 1463 ; also on the 2nd May. 1464. 

3 [From Fenn, iv. 1 30.] John Paston's eldest son appears to have been knighted 
in the course of the year 1463. The earliest notice which I find of him as knight is 
in a writ dated nth July, 3 Edward iv., entered on the Coram Rege Roll of Trinity 

78 



P 



EDWARD IV 

John Fastolf ; of whech fieri facias we sent my master word, 1463 
whech sent us word ayen by Berney that we shuld lete the 
Shiref undirstand that my master nevir toke upon hym as 
executor, and so for that cause that writte was no warant to 
take my masters goods ; and also that my master mad a dede 
of gift of all his goods and catels to Master Prewet and 
Clement Paston and other, so that my master hath no goods 
whereof he shuld make levy of the forseid summe ; and if 
the Shircff wold not take this for non answere, that thanne 
my master wold he shuld be lettid in Master Prowetts and 
Clement Pastons name. Nevirthelesse we spak with the 
ShirefF this day, and lete hym undirstand the causes aforeseid, 
and he agreid, so that he myght have suerte to safe hym 
harmeles, to mak such retorne as my master or his counsell 
coud devise. And because my master wrote by Berney that 
he wold not fynd the ShirefF no suerte, we wold not apoynt 
with hym in that wyse ; and so we toke avyse of Thomas 
Grene, and by cause the Undir-Shireff shall be on Monday at 
Hygham, by Bastewyk brygg, and he and we thought that it 
was best that Master Prowet shuld mete with the Shireff there, 
and require and charge hym that by colour of the foreseid fieri 
facias that he make no levy of any goods and catels of the 
seid Prowetts and Clement Pastons ayens the seid John Pastons, 
letyng hym vete that such goods as the seid Paston had, be 
now the seid Prowetts and Clement Pastons by vertu of a 
dede of gift mad to hem almost ij. yere agoo ; and if the 
ShirefF woll be besy aftir that to take any catell, that he be 
lettid in Master Prowetts name and Clement Pastons by 
Daubeney and other ; whech besines of the ShirefF shall be on 
Tuisday or Wednesday, and as we understand at Heylesdon. 
Wherfor ye must send thedir Daubeney with Pecok, and the 
may gete hym here more felasep by the avise of Master Sir 
John Paston, James Gresham. 

term, 3 Edward iv. This letter is not unlikely to have been written about that time, 
as it appears by a subsequent letter (No. 550) that Sir John Paston remained for some 
time at home in Norfolk, when the friends of the family thought he ought to be abroad 
in the world. 



79 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

547 

ABSTRACTi 

14^3 Deed poll whereby Elizabeth, widow of John Vere, Earl of Oxford, Lady 

AUG. 15 of the manor of Knapton, Norfolk, grants to Agnes, widow of William Paston, 
the right of removing obstructions in two watercourses belonging to the mill 
called Wodmyll in Bacton ; the first of which watercourses flows out of 
Knapton Fen, and the second from the mill of the Abbot of St. Benet's of 
Holme. 

Stratford of the Bowe, 15th Aug. 1463, 3 Edward iv. 

Fine Seal. 

548 

THE DUKE OF NORFOLK TO JOHN PASTON, 
SENIOR 2 

'To oure right trusty and entierly welbelovid servaunt^ 
John Paston^ th' elder. 

The Due of Norff. 

AUG. 31 TTJ IGHT trusty and entierly welbelovid ser vaunt, we grete 
rv^ you hertily well, and specially praying you that ye will 
^ be with us at Framlyngham on Sonday next comyng, 

that we may comon with you there, and have youre sadde 
advise in suche matiers as concernyth gretly to oure weel, 
whiche shall be mynestred unto you at youre comyng. Prayng 
you that ye fayle not herof, as our speciall trust is in you. 
And our Lord preserve you in His keping. 

Written at Framlyngham the xxxj. day of August. 

Norff. 

1 [From Add. Charter 14,514, B.M., D. Turner's Coll.] 

2 [From Fenn, iv. 250.] John Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk, the writer of this 
letter, succeeded his father in the dukedom in November 1461, being at the time only 
seventeen years of age. A year afterwards, in November 1462, we find him living 
at his castle of Holt in Denbighshire, where he proposed to spend Christmas {see 
No. 532), but before that season came he was sent for by the King to serve against 
the Scots (No. 533). I am inclined to think this letter was written in the August of 
1463 ; for although the Duke was again living at Holt in March following, it 
seems probable that he would have visited his chief family seat at Framlingham in 
the meanwhile. John Paston, the youngest, who was attached to his household, was 
certainly at home with his family in the latter part of this year (jee No. 560). 

80 



EDWARD IV 

549 

THE ABBOT OF LANGLEY TO SIR JOHN PASTON* 

To the ryght worcheppful Sere John Pas ton, Knyght, 
be this delyvered. 

RYGHT worchepful ser, and tendyrly belovyd in our 1463 
Lord God, I comend me to you, sendyng you know- sept. 4 
yng that I dede your erand to my brother, the persoon 
of Blofeeld, on Wednysdaye was sevenyght, after the undyr- 
standyng that I had of you and from you be this brynger ; 
whech man I felte ryght wele and favorabelye dysposyd to you 
ward, and more favorable wole be than to ony other jentylman 
levand, the wylle of the dede performyd, and his conscyens 
savyd ; and more thinges seyd favorabely for yow which I 
entytelyd in a scrowe to a' certyfyed to your servaunt Calle, 
yf he had come, as ye sent me woord he sculd ado, and xuld, 
as ye behestyd me, abrowte me our ferme for Heylesdon, 
which not don, causeth me to wryte, prayng your jantylnesse 
that I send no more therfore, for it is unpayed for the zeer 
afore the Halwemesse that my Mayster Fastolf deyed, and for 
the same zer that he deyed in, and sythen for ij. zer, and vj. 
unpayed of a zer, and come Myhelmesse nexte xal be another 
zer unpayed. Thus is iiij. zer unpayed and vj., and at 
Myhelmesse next xal be v. zer and vs. 

This thus kepte from Holy Chirche that is Holy Chirchez 
good, may not be withoute grete parelle of soule ; wher the 
parelle is God knoweth, I pray God amend it, and geve hem 
grace that have his goods so to dyspose them, that thei and 
the dede both may be oute of parelle. And the Trynyte have 
you in His mercyful kepyng. Wretyn at Langle, on Soneday, 
at evyn late, next after Seynt Johne Daye DecoUacion.^ 

Be your welewylland. 
Abbot of Langeleye. 

1 [From Fcnn, iv. 146.] The date of this letter is clear, from the statement 
it contains as to the length of time which has elapsed since the decease of Sir John 
Fastolf. 

* The Decollation of St. John the Baptist was observed on the 29th August. 
VOL. IV. — F 81 



THE PASTON LETTERS 



5SO 

R. C. V. C. TO JOHN PASTON THE ELDEST i 
To my worcheppefull master^ Master Paston the heldest. 

14.6'^r?') I ') YTH worchepfull master, I recommend me on to zowr 
1^ masterchepe. And of on mater at reverens of God 
take hede, for in trowth I her meche talkyng therof, 
and that is both in NorfFolk, Suffolk, and Norwyche, among 
halle men of worchepe, as welle that love zow as oder, and 
that is of my master, your son, Syr Jon, causse he is so at 
home, and no noderwyse set for. Summe sey that ze and he 
both stond howth of the Kyngs good gras, and summe sey 
that ze kepe hym at home for negard chepe, and wyll no 
thyng ware [spend] up on hym ; and so heche man sey is avyse 
as it plese hem to talke. And I have hanqwerryd [inquired]^ 
and seyd the most cause is inparty for cause ze har so meche 
howte, that he is the rather at home for the save gard of the 
costs. But at the referens of God, excheuyng of common 
langage, se that he may worchepfull be set for, heyder in the 
Kyngs servyse, or in maryache ; for as towchyng the Lady 
Chaberlen^ that mater is don, for I spake with the parson 
therof, and I hard be hym that that mater wyll not pre 
[proceed^]. 

No more, but God spede zow as well in all maters, as 
I wold ze xuld do, I be seche zow that this leter be kept 
secrete. 

Be zow[r] bede man, 

R. C. V. C. 

1 [From Fenn, iv. 128.] In the preceding letter Sir John Paston seems to have 
been at home ,• in Letter 552, we find that he had left home without leave. It is very 
probable, therefore, that the present letter was written in the interval between them, 
seeing that the writer complains of Sir John being kept at home. 

2 This Lady Chamberlayne was Anne, daughter and sole heir of Sir Robert 
Hcrling, Knight, by Jane, daughter and heir of John Gonvile, Esq. Her first 
husband was Sir William Chamberlayne, Knight of the Garter, a renowned and 

82 



EDWARD IV 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON^ 

To my ryght worchvpfull hosbond^ John Pastoriy 
be thy 5 letter delyveryd in hast. 

RIHT worchepfull husbond, I recommand me to you. 1463 
Please you to wete that I was at Norwic this wek nov. 13 
to purvey suche thyngs as nedythe me ageyns thys 
wynter ; and I was at my modder, and wille I was ther, ther 
cam in on Wrothe, a kynnysman of Elysabet Clers, and he 
sey your dowter, and preysyd hyr to my moder, and seyd that 
she was a goodly yong woman ; and my moder prayd hym for 
to gett for hyr on good mariage yf he knewe any ; and he 
seyd he knewe on shuld be of a CCC. mark be yer, the wyche 
is Sir John Cley son, that is Chamberleyn with my Lady of 
York,^ and he ys of age of xviij. yer old. Zyf ye thynk it be 
for to be spok of, my moder thynkyth that it shuld be get for 
lesse mony nowe in thys world than it shuld be her after, 
owthyr that j. [one\ or sum other good mariage. 

valiant soldier, who died in 1462. She was at this time his widow, and inherited from 
her father a very considerable fortune. 

She afterwards married Sir Robert Wingfield, and after his decease she became the 
wife of John, Lord Scroop of Bolton. 

By the name of Lady Scroop she founded and endowed a Fellowship in the 
College of Gonville and Caius at Cambridge, originally founded by an ancestor of her 
Ladyship's. 

She was bom in 1426, and was alive in 1502. 

At the time this letter was written she must have been nearly forty years old, 
when Sir John Paston could not have been much above twenty. — F. 

* [From Fenn, iv. 88.] I have found no letters of Margaret Paston dated from 
Caister before the year 1463 j but I am inclined to think that this and the letter 
following both belong to that year. The latter, being addressed to Sir John Paston, 
at least cannot be earlier, and my reasons for believing it to be of that very year will 
be seen in the note to it (p. 84, Note 2). It is just possible that this letter may be of a 
different date, but considering that both were written in November, and both of them 
certainly between the 12th and the 19th, and that in both Margaret Paston not only 
dates from Caister, but speaks of Daubeney as being with her, the presumption, I 
think, is pretty strong that they are of the same year. 

2 Cecily, Duchess of York, widow of Richard Plantagenet, Duke of York, and 
mother of Edward iv. She died in an advanced age, at her castle of Berkhamstead, 
in May 1495, and was buried near her husband, in the Choir of the Collegiate Church 
of Fotheringhay, in Northamptonshire, — F. 

83 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1463 Item, I spake with Master John Estgate for Pekerynes 

NOV. 1 3 mater after your entent of the mater of the letter that ye sent 

home, and he seyd to me he shuld write to yow howe he had 

don ther in ; and so he sent you a letter, the wyche was sent 

you be John Wodows^ man with other letters. 

As for answer [of] other mater, Daubeney tellythe me 
he wret to you. I be seche AUe myghty God have you in 
Hys kepyng. Wretyn at Caster, the Sonday next after Seynt 
Marteyne. 

Be your M. Paston. 



552 

MARGARET PASTON TO SIR JOHN PASTON " 

To my welbelovyd son, Sir John Paston, 
be this deliveryd in hast. 

NOV. 15 "W' GRET yow welle, and send yow Godds blissyng and 
myn, latyng yow wet that I have receyved a letter 
from you, the wyche ye deliveryd to Master Roger at 
Lynne, wherby I conseyve thar ye thynke ye ded not well that 
ye departyd hens withowt my knowlage. Wherfor I late yow 
wett I was ryght evyll payed with yow. Your fader thowght, 
and thynkyth yet, that I was asentyd to your departyng, and 
that hathe causyd me to have gret hevinesse. I hope he woUe 

' John Wodehouse, Esq. of Kimberley, son of the renowned John Wodehouse, 
Esq., who gained so much honour at the battle of Agincourtj he died in 1465, and 
lies buried in Kimberley Chancel. — F. 

2 [From Fenn, iv. i68.] As Sir John Paston was knighted in the year 1463, and 
his father died in May 1466, the date of this letter must lie between the years 1465 
and 1465. I think the first of these years is probably the true date. Sir John 
Paston, it seems, had left home without letting his mother know of his intention. 
Whither had he gone ? Not to London, because he addressed a letter to his father 
there ; besides he had passed by Lynn. One would naturally suppose, therefore, that 
he had gone to wait upon the King, at a time when Edward was at a distance from 
the capital. And in this view we are confirmed by the passage in which Margaret 
desires her son to speak with Wykes, who, as we know by Letter 514, was an usher 
of the King's Chamber. Now Edward iv. was in Yorkshire, staying, for the most 
part, at Pomfret, during October and November 1463, while about the same time of 
year in 1464 he was at Reading, and in 1465 at Greenwich. Sir John would 
naturally have passed through Lynn on his road to the North. 

84 



I 



EDWARD IV 

be your good fader hereafter, yf ye demene you welle, and do 1463 
as ye owe to do to hym ; and I charge you upon my blyssyng nov. 15 
that in any thyng towchyng your fader that shuld be hys 
worchep, profyte, or avayle, that ye do your devoyr and 
dylygent labor to the fortherans therin, as ye wulle have 
my good wille, and that shall cause your fader to be better 
fader to you. 

It was told me ye sent hym a letter to London. What 
the entent therof was I wot not, but thowge he take it but 
lyghtly, I wold ye shuld not spar to write to hym ageyn 
as lowly as ye cane, besechyng hym to be your good fader ; 
and send hym suche tydyngs as be in the contre thir ye bethe 
in, and that ye war [^beware] of your expence bettyr and ye 
have be befor thys tyme, and be your owne purse berer, I 
trowe ye shall fyndyt most profytable to you. 

I wold ye shuld send me word howghe ye doo, and howghe 
ye have schevyfte for yourself syn ye departyd hens, be som 
trosty man, and that your fader have no knowlage therof. 
I durste not late hym knowe of the laste letter that ye wrot to 
me, be cause he was so sor dyspleasyd with me at that tyme. 

Item, I wold ye shuld speke with Wekis, and knowe 
hys dysposysion to Jane Walsham. She hathe seyd, syn he 
departyd hens, but [unless'\ she myght have hym, she wold 
never maryd, hyr hert ys sor set on hym ; she told me that he 
seyd to hyr that ther was no woman in the world he lovyd so 
welle. I wold not he shuld jape hyr, for she menythe good 
feythe ; and yf he wolle not have hyr, late me wete in hast, 
and I shall purvey for hyr in othyr wysse. 

As for your barneys and ger that ye left here, it ys in 
Daubeneys kepyng ; it was never remevyd syn your departyng, 
be cause that he had not the keyes. I trowe it shall apeyer [^et 
injured^ but if it be take hed hate [unless it be taken heed at^ or 
to\ be tymys. Your fader knowythe not wher it is. 

I sent your grey hors to Ruston to the ferror, and he 
seythe he shull never be nowght to rood, nowthyr ryght good 
to plowe nor to carte ; he seyth he was splayyd, and hys 
shulder rent from the body, I wot not what to do with hym. 

Your grandam wold fayne here sum tydyngs from yow. 

85 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1463 It wer welle do that ye sent a letter to hyr howe ye do, 
NOV. 15 as astely as ye may. And God have you in Hys kepyng, and 
make yow a good man, and zyf yow grace to do as well as I 
wold ye shuld do. 

Wretyn at Caster, ye Tewisday next befor Seynt Edmund 
the Kynge. 

Your moder, M. Paston. 

I wold ye shuld make mech of the parson [of] Fylby, the 
berer herof, and make hym good cher yf ye may. 



553 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON * 

To my ryth worchepfull husbond, Jon Paston^ 
be thys lettyr delyveryd in haste. 

1462-3 I 3 YTH worchepfull husbond, 1 recomand me to yow. 
DEC. |X Plesyth it yow to wet that Jon Jeney was here with 
me thys daye and told me that ye desyiryd that I 
shold do make a dyche at Heylysdon, and the seson is not for 
to do make no new dechys, nor to repare non old tyll it be 
aftyr Crystmas, as it is told me, and so I sent yow word in a 
lettyr more thane a monythe goo ; I wot not whedyr ye had 
the lettyr or not, for I had non answer ther of fro yow. 
Jone Dyngayne recomandyth hyr to yow, and prayith yow for 
Goddys sake that ye wole be hyr good mastyr, and that ye 
wole wychesave to spek to Hwe of Fen for hyr, for it is so 
that serteyn lyvelod whyche hyr husbond had in Engham was 
cast in the kyngys hand in hyr husbandys lyve, and, as she 
undyrstandyth, it was do in hys fadyrys lyve ; of the whyche 

^ [Add. MS. 34,889, f. 198.] This letter must lie between the years 1459, when 
Sir John Fastolf died (as Hellesden belonged to him), and 1465, as John Paston died 
in May 1466. The most probable year is either 1462 or 1463, for it is mentioned 
here that Paston's farmer at Swainsthorpe had found security for the payment of his 
rent, and Richard Calle had levied four marks rent of him in February 1464. See 
No. 558. 

86 



EDWARD IV 

hyr husband spok to Hwe of Fen ther of in hys lyve to 1462-3 
helpe that he myth be dyschargyd ther of, and Hwe of Fen mc. 
promysyd hym verily that he had mad an ende ther in and 
dyschargyd hym, and that he shold never be hurt nor trublyd 
ther for ; and now the laste wek Barnard the undyr scheryfe 
sent downe a warant to sese the lond for the Kynge, and so, 
but [unless'] he have xxj. for a fyne within shorte tyme he wol 
not suiFyr her to have the avayle of the londys. Wher fore 
she prayith yow, for Goddys sak, that ye wole purvey a mene 
that Hwe of Fen may save hyr harmles, in as myche as he 
promysyd hyr husbond to purvey ther fore in hys lyve ; and 
if it plese not yow to spek to hym ther of, that it plese yow 
to do John Paston or Thomas Playter or sume othyr, that ye 
thynk that cane undyrstande the mater, for to spek to the 
seyd Hwe of Fen ther of in hyr name, and to serge the 
kyngys bokys ther fore, if ye thynk that it be for to do, 
and sche woll ber the cost ther of. As for the mater that ze 
wold I schold spek to Wylliam Worcester of towchyng the 
false forgyd evydens, I can not spek with hym yet ; hys wyfe 
seyth allwe that he is oute when that I send for hym. Yowyr 
fermore of Sweynysthorpe hathe fownde suerte for yowyr dute, 
as Ry chard Calle telly th me, so that ye schoU be plesyd when 
ye come home. And the blyssyd Trinite have yow in Hys 
kepyng. Wretyn in hast on the Monday next aftyr Seynt 
Andrew. — By yowyr, M. P. 



554 

ABSTRACT 1 

Indenture, 10th Dec. 3 Edward iv., between Robert Wodlark, Provost of 1 463 
the College of St. Mary and St. Nicholas, Cambridge, and John Paston, Esq., dec. 10 
witnessing a loan by Paston to the college of lOO marks till the octaves of St. 
Hilary, 1464 [i.e. 1464-5], upon certain plate.^ 

Note beloiv in a different hand: — 'Memorandum quod Mr. Alexander Lye 
erit apud Norwicum in die Martis pro[ximo] post diem Carniprivii.' 

1 [From Paston Mss., B.M.] 

2 The plate specified in this document is the same as that contained in the second 
list in No. 561, at p. 98. 

87 



THE PASTON LETTERS 
555 

JAMES GRESHAM TO JOHN PASTON i 

To my right worshipfull mayster^ John Paston, 
at Castre^ in Norfolk. 

1464 A FTER due recomendacion hadde, please it your maister- 
jAN. 26 h\ ship to wytte that this day the plee by twene Ogan 
and yow was sore argued in the Kynggs Bench by 
your counsel!, in lettyng of the jugement, and to morwe have 
they day to argue ageyn. And for lak of copies of the plee, I 
am fayn to sewe for newe copies therof for your counsell. 
Your counsell hopeth to do weel therin. These argued for 
yow, Maisters Grenefeld," Catesby,^ Pygot,* Notyngham,^ and 
Starky,° &c. And yesterday was the matier by twene Deben- 
ham and yow called by Geney '^ for an answer. I have spoken 
onto Catesby, and delyvered hym your enfromacion, and to be 
advysed, and to commune with Maister Grenefeld, &c. 

The two Chefe Juges * and Maister Lyttleton ^ arn 
awaytyng up on the Kyng, for the Kyng is purposed in to 
Gloucestreshire, &c. 

^ [From Fenn, iv. 156.] The date of this letter is abundantly evident, first from 
the circumstance that the 26th of January (the morrow of St. Paul) was a Thursday, 
and secondly, from the mention of the King's going into Gloucestershire. In 
January 1464 Edward iv, was at Northampton, and on the 9th of February he was 
at Gloucester. 

2 John Greenfield. He and the two next named were made serjeants-at-law in 
November 1463. 

5 John Catesby. He was appointed Judge of the Common Pleas in 148 1. 

* Richard Pygot. 

' William Nottingham. He was appointed Chief Baron of the Exchequer in 
1479. 

^ Humphrey Starkey. He was made a serjeant in 1478. 

'' William Jenney was made a serjeant in 1463, and a Justice of the King's Bench 
in 148 1. 

s John Markham, Chief Justice of the King's Bench, and Robert Danby, Chief 
Justice of the Common Pleas, both appointed in 1461. 

* Thomas Lyttelton, the famous lawyer, was created a serjeant in 1453, and 
appointed a Judge of the Common Pleas in 1466. He died in 1481, aged seventy- 
nine, as Fenn here tells us in a footnote ; but Foss, in his Judges of England, says 
nothing of his age. 



EDWARD IV 

It is seid that my Lord Chaunceller^ shull be here on 1464 
Saterday on on Moneday next comyng, as the maisteres of the jan. 26 
Chauncerye sayn. I write to yow this by cause ye seid to me 
if ye wyst that my Lord Chaunceller shuld be here, thanne 
wolde ye come bidder, and ell[es] wolde ye not come here this 
terme. 

As touchyng Rysyng, he hath his day, Utas^ Purificationis, 
but I have that weye that his presence is recondet for al this 
terme. 

Maister Clement^ tellyth me that Wysseter hath put 
excepcion on to your wyttenesseres,* &c. 

It is seid that the Kyng wold ride Sussex, Kent, Essex, 
Suffolk, and Norffolk, and so to the Parlement, for he hath 
sent for alle his feed men to awayte up on hym in their best 
aray in al hast. 

Wretyn at London, the Thursday in the morwe after 
Seynt Poule. 

Your owen poure man. 

Jams Gresham. 

556 

HENRY BERRY TO JOHN PASTON^ 

To my Rygth worsschipful cosyn, John Paston^ Squyer^ 
be this Letter delyveryd, ^c. 

RYGHT worsschypfull and reverent cosyn, I recomaunde jan. 28 
me on to you wyth al myn hert, as your feythful 
kynnesman and oratour, desyrynge to here of the 
goode prosperite and welfare of your worsschipfull modyr 

^ George Neville, now Bishop of Exeter, but soon after the writing of this letter 
translated to York. 

2 The Utas or Octave of a feast is the seventh day after it. 

3 Clement Paston, brother to John Paston. 

* This relates to the disputes concerning Sir John Fastolf's will. 

^ [From Fenn, i. 278.] By the mention of Sir John Paston it is evident that this 
letter was written after 1463, but of course the date cannot be later than 1466, in 
which year John Paston the father died, to whom the letter is addressed. It appears 
also to have been written shortly after the death of James Sevenoke, Abbot of St. 
Augustine's, Canterbury, which Fenn, I know not on what authority, says occurred 
in 1463. Even the new edition of Dugdale does not give the date j but Fenn's date 
is in all probability right. 

89 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1464 my Lady and cosyn, wyth your wyfF, Sir John Paston, your 

JAN. 28 brethern Wylliam and Clement, with all your sonys and 

doughters, to whom I beseche you hertely that I may be 

recomaundyd. God of His hyghe mercy preserve you all un 

to Hys mercy and grace, and save you from all adversite. 

WorsschipfuU cosyn, my speciall writynge and hertys desire 
afore rehersyd, nature naturaly so me compellyth, 

Watt thou I be putt fer ought of conceyte and syght, 
I have you all in remembrance both day and nyght ; 

besechynge you, gentyll cosyn, to tender my writynge. I take 
God to my wyttnesse, I wold as fayn do that myght be un to 
your honor, worsschippe, and profit as any herthly man can 
thynke. 

Worfor now late deyde the Abbot of our Monastery, and 
lefte us in grete ded [del>t'] ; the brynger heroff is my speciall 
frende : the holdyst brother in our place never hard nor saw 
our chirche in that mysere that is now ; we have cast the 
perellys amongys us, and there is nowne other helpe, butt 
every brother that hath any worsschipfull kynne or frendys, 
every man to do his part to the well fare, socour, and releve 
of our monasteri ; therfor, worsschipfull cosyn, I, a brother of 
that worsschipfull monastery, wer inne begoon the feyth of all 
thys lond, mekely besechyth you in the reverence of Allmygty 
God to render help, and socour us in our grete necessite ; for 
in London lyth to wedde many ryche jowells of ouris, with 
other grete detts, wych my brother wyll enforme you of. 

Plesyth your goodnesse, for Godys sake, and all the Seyntts 
of evyn, and att my sympyll request, to have compassion upon 
us, ye havynge dooe swerte [^due surety"] both in obligacions and 
pleggs ; in the reverens of All myghti God, do your allmesse 
and charite ; hitt schall cause you to be prayed for, and all 
your kynne as long as the chirche stantt ; and be this menys, I 
trust to All myghty God, to se my cosyn William, or Clement, 
to be stward of our londys, and so to have an intresse in Kentt, 
to the worsschippe of God and you all, wych ever have you in 
His kepynge. Amen. 

Writyn at Caunterbiry in hast the xxviij*' day of Januare. 
90 



EDWARD IV 

Also I beseche you, schew the brynger of this letter sum 1464 
humanite and worsschipe, that when he comyth home, he may jan. 28 
reporte as he fyndeth. 

^ [This is the cause every wele thi putt my kynne in my 
herd, seyinge, I am come of lordys, knygtes, and ladys. I 
wold they wer in your daunger a m'- merke, that they mygte 
know you, &c.] 

Be your cosyn and bedman, Henry Berry. 



557 

CLEMENT PASTON TO JOHN PASTON SENIOR 2 

To hys rythe worchyfull hroder^ John Paston thelder^ 
Sqwyer be this delyveryd. 

BRODER, I recomawnde me to zowe. After all dew ^eb. 15 
recommendacions, &c. Az for Hew Fennys obliga- 
cion, Zelverton knowlacheyd it to be Sir John Fastolfe 
is dede opynly in the Escheker, and ther he hadde is jugement 
to receive the mony and x//'. for domages. And they report 
here that they have a schreve after her entent that wyll mak 
hem execucion, or ellis return that ye have wastyd the godis 
of the dede ; so that they wyll have execucion of zowr own 
goodis, or ellys a wryt to tak zowr body. Thus ze may se 
they zeve no fors wat they doo, thow they xwld lesse and stroy 
all the goodis of the dede ; And ther for, for savacion of 
goodis of the dede, better it wer to suffer tak sum trete than 
to suffer the goodis thus to be lost. Also Zelverton hathe ben 
at all the tenauntis of Sowthewerk and chargid hem to pay no 
mony but to hym. Also the kyng hathe ben in Glowcetescher 
and pwnyssede hys rebellious a zens the lawe, and so he enten- 
dithe to doo in Norfolk, and after that in oder contreez. God 

zeve grasse and good spede in hys jornay. No more but I 

» 

1 This last paragraph is crossed out in the original ms. 

' [Add. MS. 34,889, f. 2.] For the date of this letter and the King's going to 
Gloucestershire, see preliminary note to No. 555, p. 88, Note i. 

91 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1464 pray Gode have zow in hys kepyng. Wretyn on Hasse Wed- 
FEB. 15 nysday in haste. 

Also I pray zou, send me xls. that I tok James Gressam 
and John Pampyng for zowr materis. Also ther is no man 
that hathe contentyd ony thyng in the Kyngis Benche of all 
thys term for zour materis, and that makythe the clerkis and 
zowr Aturnay wery. I trow I xall be fayn to contente hem or 
ellys they xall be unpayyd. 

Zowr broder, Clement Paston. 



558 

RICHARD CALLE TO JOHN PASTON ^ 

To my mooste reverent and wurchipfull mastre, my 
Mastre John Paston^ be this delyverd. 

FEB. 27 ¥ ^LESITH it your goode mastreschip to undrestande that 
I have receyved a byll of John Boteler, weche speketh 
of your heygh at Heylesdn, and of your barly in other 
places, but I undrestand not what ye wold I schulde do therin ; 
nevertheles I schal do make it redy. And as for your heygh I 
schull tell you whan I come hume ; and as for money at Hey- 
lesdon I can non gete, and at Sueynesthorp I have take iiij. 
marc. 

Item, as for tidyngs the Sescions schal be at Thetford on 
Wednesday next comyng, where I undrestande Mr. Berney 
wol be with moche people, be cauce ther is come to hym a 

' [From Fenn, iv. 72.] This letter and the next both mention assizes at Thetford. 
The latter, which is dated on Wednesday, the last (29th) day of February, and which 
was certainly written in the year 1464, mention them as being held on that very day. 
The present letter, dated on the second Monday in Lent, says they are to be held on 
Wednesday following. Now the second Monday in Lent 1464 fell on the 27th of 
February, that is to say just two days before that particular Wednesday on which we 
know that the assizes really were held. This alone seems almost sufficient evidence 
of the date of the letter. As for the King's going up to London, it appears by the 
dates of the Privy Seals that on the 9th February' he was at Gloucester, on the i6th 
and 17th at Kimbolton ; and it is stated in the next letter that he was at Waltham on 
the 27th, which shows that he really was moving towards the capital. This was not 
the case in 1462, the year to which Fenn assigns the letter; nor do I know his 
authority for stating that there was a Burgundian Embassy in the beginning of that year. 

92 



P 



EDWARD IV 

Prevy Scale that he schuld be with the Kyng within vj, dayes 1464 
that the Prevy Seale whas dely verd hym, weche he can not doo, ^eb. 27 
for the vj. day is to morwe. Ther is on comen to Felbrigge, 
to William Yelverton on other, and to Robert Rough an other, 
and non of them wol goo to the Kyng ; and the Undrescherif 
tolde me that ther is comen a comyscion doun to hes maistrc, 
that in cas they come not up to the Kyng be ther Prevy Seales, 
that than he rere the contre and take hem and bryng hem to 
the Kyng wher so ever he be. 

Item, Jamys Gresham tellethe me the same, and as for 
tidyngs fro London we here non, but that John Colman telleth 
me that if Berney or Robert Rough come up they are like to 
die. 

Ther be come to London Embasetors from the Duke of 
Burgundy, weche cauced the Kyng to spede hym the rather to 
London. 

Item, as for any newe assises at Thetford ther is non but 
that hathe hanged this v. yere, as the Scherif tellethe me. 

I whas purposed to be at home this nyght tell I had your 
bille, weche cauceth me to ride on to Drayton for divers thyngs, 
&c. Almyghty Jesu preserve you. 

Wreten at Norwiche, the ij. Munday of clene Lente. 
Your pore beedeman and servaunt, 

Ric. Calle. 



559 

JOHN PAMPYNGE TO JOHN PASTON, SENIORS 

To my right worshipfull master^ John Paston^ 
the elder^ Squier. 

PLEASE your mastership to wete that the Assise holde feb. 29 
this day at Thetford ; and as for any newe Assise, that 
ye spak of, ther is non, ner non other savyng on for a 
man a bought Brunham. 

1 [From Fenn, iv. 158.] The circumstance of the last day of February falling on 
a Wednesday fixes the date of this letter to the year 1464. There is no evidence in 

93 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1464 I spak with Herward, and I askyd hym if ther was any gret 

FEB. 29 day at Bury, and he seid ther was but a small day, and as for 
any assises ther wer non but old ; and he told me that Deben- 
ham and the UndershirefF were falle ought. Debenham bare 
the Shireff on hand ^ that he had do indited an hundred men 
son he cam in to his office, and the Shireff told hym that 
the Kyngs bokkes apperid whedir it was so or nought ; 
and he told Debenham that he coud indite an hundred at 
on tyme whan ye wer indited, and named yow the cause of 
ther brekyng. 

Ther was a man kyllid now late in Suffolk, and he that ded 
it was on of Debenhams men ; and Herward told me that the 
Shireff seid to hym he wold do Debenham a shrewd turne and 
he coud. 

Item, it was told me at Norwich that Master Berney shuld 
have be here with a gret felaship, and it is not so, ner no man 
heryth of hys comyng, ner her is but litell pepill nowther, ther 
wer not so few this iij. yer, as men say. 

Item, Herward askyd me where John Gayn was, and I 
askyd why, and he seid ther is a capias ought ayens hym upon 
the condempnaceon,^ and the Shireff hath it, he bad me geve 
hym warnyng ; it is retarnabill xv. Pasch.^ 

Item, thei sey here that the Kyng was on Monday at 
Waltham. 

Item, Nicholas Colman hath brought home your fardell ; it 
is at Norwich. 

Item, ther be no more Juges here but Sir Pers Ardeyn.* 

Wretyn at Thetford, the Wednesday the last day of 
Februar. 

the dates of Privy Seals that the King was at Waltham in the end of February, or that 
he had previously visited Cambridgeshire, in any year during the period when this 
letter must have been written ; but it is quite possible that he was at Waltham on the 
27th February 1464, and if so, that he had passed through Cambridgeshire on his 
way from Kimbolton, where he had been on the 17th. 

1 i.e. accused him. See vol. 11. p. no, Note i. 

2 Query, as to this word, It being not perfect in the original. — F. 

3 Quindena Paschae, the fifteenth day after Easter. 

* Sir Peter Ardern, Knight, was appointed Chief Baron of the Exchequer, and 
also a Justice of the Common Pleas, in 1448 ; but in 1462 a new Chief Baron was 
appointed, and Ardern retained only the judgeship in the Common Pleas. He died 
in 1467. 

94 



EDWARD IV 

Item, Wymondham^ is here, and was at the shirehows this 1464 
day, and the Kyngs livery abaught his nekke, and ther stood feb. 29 
be the Juge, whill a lettir of the Kyngs was red. The effect 
was, as it was told me, that the Kyng will that justice be had, 
and that all risers ayens the pees, and oppressers of the pepill, 
be chasteised, letyng hem weet ^ that he was late in Cambrigge 
Shire, and there such as had offendid aslcyd grace, whech thei 
had, savyng such as wer rewlers, whom he woll somwhat bee 
punyshid, purposyng to be in this contry abought Estern, &c. 
Your servaunt, &c., 

John Pampynge. 

560 

JOHN PASTON THE YOUNGEST TO JOHN PASTON, 

HIS FATHERS 

To my rygte reverent and worchepfull fadyr^ John Paston^ 
dwellyng in Castyr, be thys delyveryd. 

RYTH reverent and worchepfull fadyr, I recomand me march i 
on to yow, besechyng yow lowly of your blyssyng, 
desyryng to here of yowyr wellfar and prosperyte, the 
whyche I pray God preserve on to Hys plesans, and to yowyr 
hertys desyir ; besechyng yow to have me excusyd that ye had 
no wrytyng fro me syth that I departyd frome yow ; for so 
God me helpe, I send yow a lettyr to London anon aftyr 
Kandylmas, by a man of my Lordys ; and he forgat to delyver 
yt to yow, and so he browt to me the lettyr ayen ; and sythe 
that tyme I kowd get no messenger tyll now. 

1 John Wymondham, Esq., the purchaser of Felbrigg ; he died there in 14.75, ^^^ 
was buried in the Augustine Friars at Norwich. — F. 

2 The word * weet ' is omitted in Fenn's original text, but occurs in the modem 
copy. 

3 [From Fenn, i. 284..] 'The Duke of Somerset's going' here referred to cannot 
well be his flight to Scotland in 1462 (see No. 512), though the time of year at which 
this letter is dated would agree very well with that supposition; for it appears by 
Letter 511 that John Paston, the father, was at that time residing in the Temple and 
not at Caister j nor indeed have we distinct evidence of his being at the latter place 
before 1464.. Moreover, in the beginning of 1463, Somerset had just made his peace 
with King Edward and been received into favour, but early in 1464 he rebelled again. 
There can be little doubt, therefore, that this year is the true date. 

95 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1464 As for tydyngs, syche as we have here I send yow. My 

MARCH 1 Lord and my Lady ^ ar In good hele, blyssyd be God, and my 
Lord hathe gret labore and cost here in Walys for to take 
dyvers gentyllmen here whyche wer consentyng and helpyng 
on to the Duke of Somersettys goyng ; and they were apelyd 
of othyr se[r]teyn poyntys of treson, and thys mater. And 
bycause the Kyng sent my Lord woord to keep thys contre, is 
cause that my Lord terythe here thus longe. And now the 
Kyng hathe geve my Lord power, whedyr he wole do execusyon 
upon thes gentyllmen, or pardon hem, whedyr that hym lyst ; 
and as fertheforthe as I kan undyr stand yet, they shall have 
grase. And as sone as thes men be come in, my Lord is 
perposyd to come to London, whyche I supose schall be within 
thys fortnyght. The menys namys that be apechyd ar thes, 
John Hanmer, and Wylliam hys sone, Roger Pulyston, and 
Edward of Madok ; these be men of worchepe that schall 
come in. 

The Comenys in Lancasher and Chescher wer up to the 
nombyr of a x. m'- [10,000] or more, but now they be downe 
ayen; and one or ij. of hem was hedyd in Chestyr as on 
Saterday last past. 

Thomas DanyelP is here in Chesscher, but I wot not in 
what plase, he hathe sent iij. or iiij. letyrys to Syr John 
Howard, syne my Lord come hedyr. 

And othyr tydynggs her we none here, but that I supose ye 
have herd before ; I supose veryly that it schall be so nye 
Ester ne ^ er ever my Lord come to London, that I schal not 
move [q. mowe ? i.e. be able] come home to yow before 
Estern ; wherfor I besech yow, that ye wole wyche save 
[vouchsafe] that one of your men may send a byll to myne 
oncyll Clement, or to som othyr man, who that ye wole, in 
youyr name, that they may delyver me the mony that I am 

* John Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk, and Elizabeth, his wife. 

^ This gentleman had a reversionary grant of the constableship of Rising Castle in 
1448, 27 Hen. VI. He married Margaret, daughter of Sir Robert Howard, and sister 
of Sir John, afterwards Duke of Norfolk. He is said to have been attainted in the 
I Edw. IV., but fully restored both in blood and possessions in the 14th of the same 
King. He was esquire of the body to Henry vi. — F. 

3 In 1464 Easter Day fell on the 1st of April. 

96 



EDWARD IV 

behynd of this quarter syn Crystmas, and for the next quarter, 1464 
in parte of that some that it plesid yow to grant me by yer ; march i 
for by my trowthe, the felawchep have not so myche mony as 
we wend to have had be ryth myche ; for my Lord hath had 
gret costs syn he came hedyr. Wherfore I besech yow, that I 
may have this mony at Estern, for I have borowyd mony that 
I must paye ayen after Estern : and I pray to Allmyty God 
have yow in kepyng. 

Wretyn in the Castyll of the Holte, in Walys, the fyrst 
day of Marche. 

Your sone and lowly servant, 

John Paston^ the yongest. 

561 

ABSTRACT! 

Copy of an indenture bearing date nth April, 4 Edward iv., witnessing April ii 
the delivery to Richard Calle, servant of John Paston, Esquire, by John, prior 
of the monastery of Holy Trinity, Norwich, by virtue of the King's writ, of a 
red box containing seventeen bundles of evidences, with ,^40 of silver in groats, 
and 80 nobles of gold, in a bag, and other valuables. 

An inventory of the articles referred to in the foregoing indenture is contained in 
a separate paper mutilated in the right-hand margin, which we give verbatim as 
follows : — 

This is the parcell be endenture received by Richard Calle of ... . 

day of Aprile the forthe j'ere as it 

apperit by the copye that the seyde Richard sendeth me by John Threcher. 

Unam cistam rubeam cum xvij. bundellis evidenciarum in eadem cista 

contentis. 

Quadraginta libras argenti in grossis et iiij"* nobil. 

Duo turribula ^ argenti et deaurata. 

Unam pixidem argenti et deauratam. 

Unum osculatorium cum imagine Sancti Jacobi et . . . . 

Unum cruett argenti et deauratum. 

Unum crismatorium rotundum. Md.^ ^ ' ^".u- 

__ ,. . , cruet m tne 

Unum calicem argenti et deauratum. 1 cofer.^ 

Unum alium calicem cum imagine Sanctae Trinitatis./ j j^^^ ^g^ 

, rx-. ^ ~ ^ m . 1 'och in the 

' [From Paston mss., B.M.J cofer but 

2 Thuribula, censers, from thus. chalis of 

2 These marginal notes are in John Paston's hand. gold.' 

VOL. IV. G 97 



THE PASTON LETTERS 



1464 

APRIL I I 

Thes to 
chalis after 
the unc' 
XX. s. ar 
worth 
xliij. //.a 

Thi$ is 
worth xiij. 
li. XV. s.^ 

Thes be 
worth, after 
XXX. d. the 
nnch 
xxviij. li. 
xiij s. ix. d.2 



This is the copy of a bille drawin in Englyche that I sent home |^of all] 

manner of suche stuff as was in myne coffre in the abb[^ey] 

by a letter sent with the same bylle that he chowlde take hede that 

yf he fonde aney more, well be it, as it aperit in the seyd lett^erj . . 

woulle be lokyd [locked] uppe. 

Unum calicem de auro playne ponderis duas Ii[bras]. 

Unum alium calicem de auro cum scriptura ' Cal[icem salutaris accipiam,' ^ 

ponderis xix. unc']. 
Unam tabulam de auro cum imagine Sancti J[acobi positam cum lapidis 

pretiosis,] ponderis xiij. unc' et iij. quarteria. 
Unum par turribulorum argenti et deaurat' cum scriptura, viz., in prima parte 

* Dat' est eis,' &c. ; et in secunda parte ' Ascendit fumus,' pond' xiij. 

lb. et [x. unc']. 
Unam pixidem argenti pro sacramento deaurat' cum cruce [in summitate ac 

chased cum] liliis, pond' v. lb. et iij. unc' di'. 
Unam ampullam argenti deaurat' pond' i. Ib.^ 

* All this was put in a paner togyddre and . . . . for to berit in to 

the coffre. 
Item, xl. mark in noblis and xl. li. in gro[tis]. 
Item, evydens. 



562 



SACRED VESSELS « 



This is the plate that was in my cofir at Norwich. 

1464 ^ CHALEYS of goold playne, weyng ij. pound. 

A\ Item, a nother chaleys of goold, with this writyngc 

' Calicem salutaris ^ accipiam,' weyng xix. unces. 
Item, one table of gold, with an image of Sen James set 
with precious stonys, weyng xiij. unce iij. quarter. 

Item, one peyre of sensers of silver and gilt, with scripture, 

* Psalm cxv. [cxvi.] 13. 2 Sgg Note 3 on last page. 

3 The plate in this list is the same as that described in No. 554, by which the 
words lost in this MS. have been supplied. 

* Added in John Paston's hand. 

* [From Paston Mss., B.M.] This list of articles is in the handwriting of Richard 
Caile, writing, I presume, as John Paston's secretary, and in his name. It will be 
seen that it corresponds with a Latin list contained in No. 561, and must therefore be 
the 'bill drawn in English ' there referred to. 

* Salutularis, MS. 

98 



EDWARD IV 

viz., in the first part, ' Dat' est eis,' &c., and in the second 1464 
parte, * Ascendit fumus,' &c., weyng xiij//. et x. unc'. 

Item, one box of silver and gilt for the sacrement, with 
a crosse in the heyght, and chased with liliis, weying v//. iij. 
unc' di. 

Item, one potte callid a crismatorie to put in holy creme 
and oyle, of silver and gilt, weying j/i. 



A LIST OF GILT IMAGES ^ 

AN image off Owr Lady with ij. awngeUis sensyng, 
gilthe, viij"* unc', viz., xiii//. et. iiij. unc'. 
Item, a crosse with a fott, Ix. unc', gilthe in to 
cassys and gilt, viij'"^ & xvij. unc', viz., xiiij//. & ix. unc'. 

Item, an image of Sent Jon Vangelist, gilthe, weyng vij'^'x. 
unc', viz., xij/f. vj. unc'. 

Item, an image of Sent Jon Baptist, gilthe, with the Lamb, 
Iviij. unc', viz., iiij//. x. unnc'. 

Item, an image off Sent Jamis with his staff, gilthe, weyng 
xxxvj. unc', viz., iij//. 

Item, an image off Our Lady, gilthe, with a crowne and a 
lely, weyng iij^'vj. unnc', viz., v//. vj. unc'. 

Item, an image of Sent Denys, gilthe, weyng 1. unc', viz., 
iiij//. ij. unc'. 

Item, an image off owr Savyowr, gilt, with His crosse. His 
diademe, and His fane, v'*xj. unc', viz., ix//. iij. unc'. 

Summa unciarum xl'^^viij. unc'. 

Summa Ixvij. lib. iiij. unc'. 

Sum in markis Cj. mark ij. unc', di. 

Memorandum, j. lib. continet xij. unc' ; j. marc continet 
viij. unc'. 

Endorsed — Episcopus Cantuariensis. 

* [From Paston Mss., B.M.] This list is likewise in the handwriting of Richard 
Calle, and was perhaps drawn up about the same time as the preceding one. 

99 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

564 

CLEMENT PASTON TO JOHN PASTON 1 

To my rygth worchepful broder John Paston Sqwyer. 

1464 I ) YGHT worshypfull brothyr, I recomawnde me to zow. 
APRIL 18 J^ After all dew recomendacions, &c., plesse it zow to 
^ ^ wett that after that I had harde say that the person of 
Blowfelde ^ wasse com to town I went to hym to his in, and he 
bade the mesenger say that he wasse not within, and I bad 
hym say a gayn that I come thyder to hym for hys own 
worchep and avayle and that I wasse sory that I com so fer 
for hym ; and after that he sent for me and he cowde not 
fynde me, and I harde say ther of. And than I wrott a 
letter, resytyng how that he wasse sworn yesterday for to 
say the trowthe of al maner of materis consernyng Sir John 
Fastolfe, avysyd hym to remember qwat hys wytnesse hadde 
sayd for hys sake, and wat schame it xwlde be to hym to say 
the contrary ; And also, if he sayde the contrary, ze wold her- 
after prove the trowthe and contrary to hys sayyng, and prove 
hym in a perjuri. And also I badde hym remember with wat 
maner of men he delt wythe ; and I rehersyd how untrwly 
they hadde don. And not with standyng thys, after I met 
with hym in the strett and spak with hym, and I fownde hym 
passyng strawngely disposyd and sor mevyd with consiens that 
ze xwld have the lond and fownd the colage but with an C. 
marcs, not with stondyng he myth fynde in hys consiens by 
the well that the colage xwld be fowndyd in a noder plasse 
but with an C. marcs, and the reminaunt of the lylode sold so 
that he myth pwroe the mony ; so I felt by hym that all hys 
strawngenes from zow is for he demythe that ze wold parte 
from no thyng ; and I told hym the contrary ther of to be 

1 [Add. MS. 34,889, f. 7.] This letter was written in April 1464, when 
witnesses began to be examined about Fastolf's will. See No. 565. The Privy Seals 
of Edward iv. show that he was in Kent (at Dartford) on the 15th and i8th of 
that month, and he immediately after started for York. 

* Thomas Howes. 
100 



EDWARD IV 

trwe, az this day he is exaymined up on a bok to sey the 1464 
trowthe of all thynges as the juge will^ aske hym, for the april il 
jugeis informacion ; wych I trowe wyll not be good. Also 
they have pwt in testes azens zow iij'"' or iiij'''' men. Mayster 
Robard Kent wold sayn that ze xwle gett zow ij. lycens of the 
prioris of zowre wytnes, Mayster Clement and the monke, 
with an A ^ datt beryng before the comyng up ; for that must 
ye nedis have. Also he wold sayn that ze xwld com to thys 
towne. Me thowte by Sir Thomas that they have aswerte in 
maner that ze xall have no lycens for zour fundacion. And 
\i.e. if] they be abowte to gett a lycens to fownde the colage 
in a noder place, me thynkythe that wold hurte ; her colour is 
for cause ze can gett no lycens to fownde it at Caster ; werfor 
thow zour wyll wer trwe, they myth lawfully fownde it in a 
noder place. My Lord Chawnceler^ is gone to Zork and 
wyll not be her of all thys term. Wrytyn on Wednisday 
nexst be for Saynt George. 

The Kyng hathe ben in Kent and ther ben endityd many 
for Isleis dethe ; and he wyll com to town this day azen and 
he wyl not tary her but forthe to Zork straytt. 

By Clement Paston. 

56s 

ABSTRACT * 

Depositions touching Sir J. Fastolf's Will 

* Primum testes reprobatorii product! per Yelverton, contra testes Paston april- 

principaliter productos &c. nov. 

* Facta fuit sequens examinatio testium subscriptorum secrete et singillatim, 



* * will.' In MS. ' wV which ought to read ' with ' ; evidently a slip of the pen. 
^ Apparently meaning an ante date. 

3 George Nevill, Bishop of Exeter, afterwards Archbishop of York. 

* [From MS. Phillipps, 9309.] These depositions, of which we shall only attempt 
to give some of the principal points, were produced in the Spiritual Court by Sir 
William Yelverton and William Worcester in opposition to the claim of John Paston 
and Thomas Howes to be Sir John FastolPs executors. The examinations were taken 
at intervals during the years 1464, 1465, and 1466, and the suit was not terminated 
when John Paston died. The ms. volume here referred to contains three distinct 
bundles of these depositions bound up in a wrong order. A volume containing 
similar matter among the Paston Mss. in the British Museum will be found entered 
in the year 1465. 

lOI 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1 464 videlicet, Domini Johannis Davy capellani vicesimo octavo die mensis Aprilis, 
APRIL- Thomse Upton quinto, Johannis Bockyng duodecimo, Nicholai Newman xvj'° 
jjov. diebus mensis Maii ; Johannis Loer, Willelmi Eton quarto, Roberti Lynne 
quinto, diebus mensis Junii ; Bartholomei Elys tercio, magistri Roberti Wylly 
sexto, Johannis Marshall, Johannis Davy terciodecimo et Willelmi Lyne 
ultimo, diebus mensis Julii ; Anno Domini millesimo quadringentesimo sexa- 
gesimo quarto, Indictione duodecima, pontificatus Sanctissirai in Christo patris 
et domini nostri, domini Pii Divina prudencia Papae Secundi anno sexto, In 
Domo Thesaurarii ecclesiae Cathedralis Sancti Pauli, London, infra parochiam 
Sancti Gregorii civitatis London situat', per venerabilem virum magistrum 
Johannem Druell, utriusque juris doctorem, examinatorem et commissarium ad 
infra scripta specialiter deputatum. In praesentia mei Nicholai Parker notarii 
auctoritate Apostolica, publici scribae in hac parte de et super exceptionibus 
infra scriptis, par partem domini Willelmi Yelverton et Willelmi Worceter 
productorum.' 

I. John Davy chaplain, staying at the University of Cambridge, Rber^ 
conditionis, 30 years old and more, examined super exceptionibus itifrascriptis of 
which the tenors are quoted, viz., on the part of Yelverton and Worceter 
against John Russe, Robert Cutteler elk.. Master Clement Felmyngham, Rob. 
Boteler, Ralph Lampet, Brother Will. Bokyngham, and Master Robert Popy, 
witnesses on the opposite side, whose testimony is discredited ' eo quod parte 
sua non praesenti juraverunt et super non juratis deposuerunt, ac in depositionibus 
suis fuerint et sint varii, contrarii, singulares negativam asserentes, causas 
dictorum suorum minime reddentes, unumque et eundem praemeditatum ser- 
monem proferentes, a testatore non vocati aut rogati perhibere testimonium, 
nee sufficienter probantes in hac parte, prout ex inspectione depositionum suarum 
liquere poterit intuenti.' Further, John Russe was illiterate, and did not under- 
stand Latin when he made his deposition, and he contradicted the other witnesses 
on his own side : viz., to the 9th interrogatory he said. Sir J. FastolPs will was 
not written before his death, which Clement Felmyngham and Robt. Cutteler 
in their reply to the 3d said it was. Moreover he expected advantage to him- 
self from his testimony, and was discharged by Howys of ^^300 that he owed 
Fastolf. He had also secretly abstracted certain muniments and charters of the 
testator, which were in the custody of Will. Worceter, in the house of John 
Tovy, at Castir, Norwich dioc, in Nov. i459' Moreover he was supravisor et 
locator of the testator's lands called Akethorpe, yearly value 9 marks, appointed 
by Paston or Howys, who promised to sell them to him much under value for 
his testimony. Further, his statement that he was present in quadam bassa 
camera at Caister between 8 and 9 a.m. on the Saturday before Sir J. FastolPs 
death, was a perjury, for he was really all that time in other places a long way 
off. His declaration that he was no servant or tenant of those who brought 
him forward was untrue : he had hired a house of Howys in the town of 
Yarmouth, value 40s. a year. He was inconsistent in his testimony about the 
hour Sir J. declared his will. He also pretended never to have seen FastolPs 
will before his death, although he wrote the said pretended will with his own 
hand with the date at the head, which at the beginning of this suit he caused to 
be cut off from the writing and hidden. 

Ip2 



EDWARD IV 

Also the said Rob. Cutteler chaplain, when he made his deposition, was 1 464 
«levis opinionis, malx conscientix et de mensa Joh'is Paston ac tenens ipsius, april- 
prout ad primum interrogatorium examinationis suae primae et secundas responde- nov. 
bat.' Also he was perjured: because in April 1457 in par. of Holy Trin., 
Castir, he beat and maimed one Jo. Flemyng, and boasted of it (^ac sic factum 
nomine suo ratum habuit)^ but being taken before Sir J. Fastolf, justice of the 
peace, he swore he had not done so. — Proofs that he was not disinterested. 

Exceptions to Rob. Popy : He was a tenant of Paston's, &c. &c. 

Davy says John Rus was at Yarmouth on the Saturday in question, as he 
usually was on Saturdays, to buy victuals for FastolPs house, &c. (Proof 
declared insufficient in the margin). Sir J. Fastolf was so ill, that, as Davy 
had heard he was unable to speak from 22d Oct. ' Quas quidem infirmitas 
vocabatur judicio medicorum, sincope^ quae ipsum vexabat singulis horis et ipsum 
deduxit ad extasim de scientia istius jurati, qui continue conversabatur cum eo 
usque ad ipsius mortem.' 

2. Thos. Upton, one of the clerks of the King's kitchen, /iferatusy * liberx 
conditionis,' forty years old and over ; 2d. witness. 

Mentions that W. Worceter gave Jo. Rus a casket to keep containing 
certain documents, which Rus delivered to Howys after FastolPs death. Was 
clerk of the kitchen to Fastolf when Rus used to go on Saturday to Yar- 
mouth, &c. 

9 May. Jo. Bokkyng produced by Jo. Naseby, proctor of Yelverton and 
Worceter, before Master Tho. Wynterton, LL.D., auditor of Thomas Arch- 
bishop of Canterbury, at his house in the parish of St. Martin, in presence of 
Robert Kent, proctor of John Paston. — Examination committed to John 
Druell, LL.D. who on the 12th May examines him secretly in the house of 
the treasurer of St. Paul's. 

* Dicit quod Johannes Tovy quaedam munimenta et evidencias ^ in certis 
bagis et pixidibus contenta quae Willelmus Worceter eidem Johanni Tovy 
liberavit custodienda.' Rus was and is Howys' tenant for the house he lives 
in. After FastolPs death Upton delivered to Clement Felmyngham a signet 
or gold ring, * ad signandum sigilla dicti domini Johannis Fastolf,' in a little 
bag, which was to be returned ' post signacionem hujusmodi,' but afterwards he 
said he had lost it. Touchyng brother W. Bukyngham, it was publicly noised 
at Yarmouth that Robert Brown, a chaplain of that town, had killed one 
Seman Burton, that Bukyngham knowingly received him, and that by his advice 
he fled. To the last exception he says he believes Fastolf did not release 
Paston from the payment of the said 4000 marks, ' quia iste juratus non in- 
tellixit in tota vita sua tantam liberalitatem in dicto domino Johanne Fastolf.' 
Fastolf had such difficulty in breathing for five or six days before his death that 
he could hardly speak. 

Interrogatories proposed on the part of Paston and Howys, and administered 
to witnesses. 

* In primis, interrogetur quilibet testis hujusmodi cujus sit conditionis et an 



* There is no verb in the ms. to govern munimenta et e-indencias. 

103 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1 464 sit famulus, ^ serviens aut tenens partis eum producentis, et cui parti magis favet 
APRIL- partium praedictarum.' Secondly, whether he be in the pay of any one. There 
NOV. are six interrogatories in all, and they are numbered. 

Then follow answers of some one, whose name does not appear, to each of 
these six interrogatories ; and other answers by — 

1. Nich. Newman, Usher of the Chamber to Lady Catherine, Duchess 
of Norfolk. 

2. John Loer, servant of the Abbot of Langley. 

3. Will. Eton. 

4. Rob. Lynne of Bucklande. 

5. Barth. Elys of Yarmouth, *Uteratus liberae conditionis,* fifty years old 
and more (proves Rus's absence, but his testimony is declared in the margin to 
be improbable, and not to agree with Davy's). 

6 July. Naseby produces Rob. Wylly on the part of Yelverton and Worcester. 
Examined on the 9th. — Says he was required by Paston and Howys to see 
FastolPs will, and ' ad impediendum [jmpendendutn] consilium suum : ' — that on 
a Sunday in the summer after FastolPs death, John Paston showed him, at 
FastolPs house in Southwark, Sir John's will written on paper, in presence of 
Clement Felmyngham and John Bracley, and asked his opinion if it was valid. 
Thought it insufficient to overthrow any previous will. A clause mentioning 
Tudenham and Heydon as executors was cancelled by this deponent's advice, 

* eo quod erat contra caritatem.' 

13 July at Bow Church. Naseby produces John Marshall and John Davy, 
whose examinations follow. 

19 Oct. 1464. Druell examines Hen. Wenstall at the treasurer's house of 
St. Paul's. 

15 Nov. 1 464. Druell examines Rob. Hert. 

1 Dec. Naseby produces Rob. Fyztrauf, whose production Kent opposes ; 
who tries to prove Rus's absence (insufficiently, as remarked in the margin), 
because he was constantly with Fastolf, except half an hour that morning, and 
held the basin while Henry Barbour lathered the beard (/aW/ barbam) of the 
said Sir John Fastolf. 

* Responsiones personaliter factae per dominum Thomam Howys unum 
executorum domini Joh'is Fastolf, ultimo die mensis Aprilis A° D"' 1464,' &c., 

* coram Ven. viro Mag'ro Thoma Wynterbourne, LL.D.,' &c., 'in camera 
ejusdem infra manerium Rev°" patris apud Lamehith, Winton dioc' situat', in 
praesenncia mei Nicholai Parker,' &c. 

Howys says he did not see Coteler or Rus in FastolPs chamber that Satur- 
day before he went to dinner. On Saturday and Sunday before his death 
Fastolf spoke so low he could hardly be heard by any one, and Howys heard 
him only by putting his ear close to his mouth. FastolPs mind was clear. 



* The text is continued here at another part of the volume, the leaves being 
misplaced. 



104 



EDWARD IV 



566 

ABSTRACT 1 

Power of attorney by Roger Fidyon, clerk, and William Bondys to 1 464 
Richard Lynstede, John Holme, and John Brikkes, to enter and take posses- ^j^y j 2 
sion of the manor of Hornynghall, in Castre, by Yarmouth, with appurtenances 
in Castre, Maudeby, Ormesby, Filby, and Scroudeby, or elsewhere in the 
hundred of East Flegge, Norfolk, which the said Roger and William have of 
the gift of Edmund Clere ; and thereafter to deliver seisin therein to Agnes 
Paston, William Paston, Elizabeth, Countess of Oxford, John Veer, Earl of 
Oxford, John Scroop, Knight, Lord Scroop, Sir William Yelverton, Elizabeth 
Cleere; William Jennay, John Grenefeld, John Catesby, Serjeants-at-Law ; 
John Hastynges, John Clopton, John Calthorp, Hugh Fen, Thomas Corne- 
waleys, Thomas Howes, clerk, Roger Marchall of London, Henry Spilman, 
William Lomnour, Bartholomew Whyte, William Whyte, John Applyerd, 
James Arblaster, William Wurcetyr, and Richard Maryot, according to a 
charter granted to them by the said Roger and William. 

Castre, 1 2th May, 4 Edward iv. 



567 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON 2 

To myn ryght worshypful hosbond^ John Pastotty 
he thys delyveryd in haste. 

RYGHT worshypful hosbond, rekomaund me on to you. june 
Pleasyth you to wete that I sent yisterday Loveday to 
Norwyche to speke wyth the Vykyr of Derham^ for 
the mater betwen Master Constantyn and hym ; and he seyth 
that as for that mater, Master Constantyn sewyd hym for 

1 [From MS. in the Bodleian Library.] 

2 [From Fenn, iv. 176.] The commission to Lord Scales and Sir John Howard 
mentioned in this letter seems to have reference to a proclamation dated the nth 
May 1464, by which all men between the ages of sixty and sixteen were ordered to 
attend the King. The date is confirmed by the reference in the postscript to the 
death of 'Rous of Suffolk,' for Reginald Rous of Denington died in 1464. {See 
Weever's Funeral Monuments, p. 782.) 

3 Constantine Dalby was instituted to the Vicarage of East Dereham in 145 1, 
and was succeeded in 1458 by Robert Sheringham. 

105 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1464 feyth and trowth brekyng, and he sewed Master Constantyn 
JUNE 8 in the Temporall Curte uppon an obligacion of x//. ; and ther 
was made appoyntment be twen hem by the advyce of bothe 
ther Conceylis, be for Master Robert Popy, that eche of hem 
shuld relece othyr, and so they dede, and the sewtys wer wyth- 
drawyn on bothe partyes, and iche of hem aquytauncyd othyr ; 
and as for any copy of the plee, he had never non, ner he ner 
Master John Estegate, that was hys atornay, remembryth nat 
that it was regestryd ; and Master John Estegate seythe, if it 
schuld be scergyd in the regester it wold take a fortenyght 
werk, and yit peraventur never be the nerer. 

Syr Thomas Howes hathe ben ryght besy thys weke at 
Blofeld, in wrytyng and lokyng uppe of ger, and John Russe 
hathe ben with hym ther the moste parte of alle thys weke, 
and thys day was Robert Lynne ther with hym; what they 
have do I wote nat, but I schal wete if I may. 

It was told me that Syr Thomas desyryd of John Russe to 
make hym a new inventory of Syr John Fastolffs goods. John 
Russe myght not be spoke with yit, for the letter that he 
shuld a wretyn, whych yc sente me word of 

Item, it is tolde that the Dwke of Suffolk ^ is kome home, 
and owthyr he is ded, or ellys ryght seke, and not lyke to 
eskape ; and Syr John Howard is kome hom ; and it is seyd 
that the Lord Skalys - and he have a comyssyon to enquer 
whye they of this contre that were sent for kame not hastylar 
uppe afftyr they wer sent for. It is reportyd that the Kyng is 
gretly dyspleasyd ther with. At the reverence of God, arme 
yowr selve as myghtyly as ye kan ageyn yowr enmyes, for I 
know verrayly that they wyl do ageyn yow as myghtyly as 
they kan with all ther power. 

It is told me that Syr Thomas shal kom uppe in haste, 
and othyr, suche as he kan make for hys party e. 

Also for Goddys sake be war what medesyns ye take of 
any fysissyans of London ; I schal never trust to hem be cause 
of your fadr and myn onkyl, whoys sowlys God assoyle. 

The blissyd Trynyte have yow in Hys kepyng, and sende 

1 John de la Pole, Duke of SufFolk. 

* Anthony Widville was created Lord Scales in 146 1. — F. 
106 



EDWARD IV 

yow helthe and good spede in all yowr materis. Wretyn in 1464 
haste, on the Fryday next befor Sceynt Bernabye. June 8 

-^ By yowrs, M. P. 

AUe the jentylmen of thys centre that went uppe to the 
Kyng ar contrmaundyd, and ar com horn ageyn. It is told 
me that Rowse of Suffolk^ is ded. If John Gayn myght 
have any releese of his sone, if it myght do hym ese, it wer 
a good torne for hym. 



568 
RICHARD CALLE TO JOHN PASTON^ 

To my ryght wurschipfull my mastre^ John Pastoriy he 
this delyverd in haste. 

PLESITH it youre goode maisterchippe to witte that I june 2J 
have be with my Mastre Calthorppe for the matre ye 
wrote to hym fore, wherin I have founde hym ryght 
weele disposed and favorabley ; nevertheles he tolde me that 
William Jenney hath bene hes goode frende and have ben of 
hes councell this ij. yere in all hes matres towchyng the lawe, 
but he seide lever he hadde lose the lesser frende than the 
greete frende, and so he hathe graunted favour accordyng to 
youre desire, and wrote a lettre to the undrescheryfF of Norfolk 
that he schuld take suerte sufficient to save hym harmeles, and 
that done to write a letter to the undrescheryfF of Suffolk and 
lete hym witte that he hath taken suerte that ye schall appere 
in the crastino Animarum upon the exigents returnable, or eUes 

* Reginald Rous, Esq. of Denington, in Suffolk, died in 1464. He was the 
ancestor of the present Earl of Stradbroke. 

* [From Paston mss., B.M.] This letter refers to the suit brought by Jenney 
against Paston in 1464, in which, as will be seen hereafter, Paston failed to appear at 
four successive county courts held at Ipswich, and was at last outlawed in Michaelmas 
term. See No. 572. 

107 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1464 to bryng a super sedias^ lauful before that daye, chargyng hym 

JUNE 28 that he do sece \j:ause to cease] the callyng of the^ writts, and to 

retorne that ye appered the furst day. Weche suerte is taken, 

and a letter wreten to the undrescheryff of SuiFolk acordynge 

herto. 

Item, as for Sir Thomas Howes, he lythe most at Nor- 
wiche. I can thynke he come not up to London tyll 
Michelmes. 

Item, I rode over to Techewelle whan that I whas at 
Mastre Calthorppes for to have money of the fermours, and 
Yelverton and Sir Thomas hathe sent to hem that they schol 
pay to you no more money, for that they had payed to you 
they schulde payed \_pay it] ayene to them ; and so I gane 
\_can] gete no money of hem. Wherfore I went for to 
distreyne hem ; and so they seide that I myght not distreyne 
hem, for I come before the daye, for her [their] day is at 
Midsomer. Nevertheles I wold not lette, for that Simond 
Miller and other promysed to Mr. William Cotyng and to 
me that I schuld have the money aftre Midsomer, so that I 
brought with me a quetaunce of suche money as ye have re- 
ceyved of hem, or elles a generall quetaunce ; and the tone 
I purposed to do in haste be the advice of the seide Mastre 
W. Cotynge, For, and I torned, I can thynke it schuld 
hurte. I am purposed to lete it in youre name to other 
folks or to them ayen, and suerte founde to you, &c. And 
Almyghty God preserve and kepe you. Wreten at Norwichc 
on Sen Petres Even. 

Your pore ser vaunt and bedman, 

Ric. Calle. 

* Super sedias. So spelt in MS. 



108 



EDWARD IV 



569 

JOHN PASTON TO EDWARD IV.i 
'To the Kyng^ our Liege Lord. 

BESECHYTH lowly your humble servaunt, John Paston 1464 
the older, squier, that it please youre good grace, for 
such a fyne as your highnes hath apoynted your seid 
besecher to content yow, wherof ye be put in suerte, to graunt 
on to your seid besecher your gratious lettirs patentes of 
licence to found, stabilissh, and endewe in the gret mancion 
of Caster in Flegge in Norffolk, that late was John FastolfFs, 
knyght, cosyn to your seid besecher, a college of vij. prestes, 
wherof one to be master, and of vij. porefolk, to pray for your 
noble astate and for the soule of the seid John FastoliF and 
such other as he was behold to inperpetuite, aftir ordinauns 
by your seid besecher in that behalff to be made ; and to 
inmortese, geve and graunt to the seid prestes and to ther 
successours, for the sustentacion of hem and of the seid pore- 
folk CXX. mark of annuite and rent charge, or annuites and 
rentes charge, yerly goyng out of the maners callid Redhams, 
Vaux, and Bosomes, in Caster forseid, Begviles in Wynterton, 
Reppis in Bastewyk, Spencers in Heryngby, Loundhall in Sax- 
thorp, Heylesdon, Drayton, Heynesford, Guton in Brandeston, 
Beyton, Techewell, and of the thrid part of the maner of 
Runham with th'apportenauns in the shire of Norffolk, and of 
the maners of Hemnales in Cotton, Burneviles in Nakton, 
Akthorp in Leystoft, Calcotes, Havelound, Spitlyngges, with 
th'apportenauns in the shire of Suffolk, and out of any part of 

1 [From MSS. in the Bodleian Library.] This, and the alternative petition which 
follows, seem to have been drawn up in the year 1464, as one or other of them must 
have been the subject of the agreement of the loth September in that year (No. 571). 
The two are printed from two parchment Mss. in the Bodleian Library. There is 
also, among the Paston mss. in the British Museum, a third copy, fair written on 
parchment like the other two, of which the text corresponds in the beginning to the 
second petition, and in the latter part to the iirst. 

109 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1464 the seid maners, with a clause of distresse for defaut of pay- 
ment of the seid rente, and vj. acres of lond in the seid towne 
of Caster, and the avowsons of the chirches of the same town, 
and the fourth part of the seid mancion, or any part therof for 
the habitacion of the seid prestes and porefolk, to be reparid 
at the costs of your seid besecher, and his heires or assignes 
for evir. And also by your seid lettirs patentes to graunt the 
same prestes to be one body incorperate and to have succession 
perpetuall, and a comon seall, and to be persones abill to plede 
and to be impletid, and to purchase and alienyn all maner 
londes, goodes and catell, by the name of the master and his 
brethyrn of the college of Sen John Baptist of Castre aforeseid. 
And also by your seid lettirs patentes to licence the seid prestes 
to take and reseyve, and to hold to them and to ther succes- 
sours the seid annuite, rent charge, vj. acres of lond, avousons, 

and the seid ^ part of the seid mancion, for evir. And 

to geve your Chaunceler of Inglond for the tyme beyng, 
comaundement, power, and auctorite that where as in this 
petision is not comprehendid the certeynte of termes, maters, 
clauses, and other circumstaunces convenient and requisite after 
forme of lawe for licens of the seid fundacion, that your seid 
Chaunceler, that notwithstandyng, do make your seid lettirs 
patentes in forme of lawe efFectuall and sufficient in that behalf 
after the very entent aforeseid, not excedyng the valew and 
somme before specifyd, without any fyne or fee other thanne 
is afore specifyd to be payd for the seid lettirs patentes, licens, 
or grauntes, by your seid besecher or by the seid prestes ; and 
thci shall pray hertly to God for yow. 

Endorsed in a later hand: — Supplicatio Jo. Paston [pro] fundacione Collegii apud 
Caistor [secundum] formam testamcnti Jo. Fastolf, mil. 



^ A blank on an erasure. 



no 



EDWARD IV 

II. 

To the Kyngy our Sovereyn Lord. 

Please it yowr highnes to graunte unto yowr humble servant John Paston the 14.64. 
older, Squier, yowr gracious lettres patents of licence to fownde, stabelysh, and 
endewe in the gret mancion of Castre be Mekyll Yermowth in NorfFolk, that 
late was John FastolfFs, knyght, cosyn to yowr seyd besecher, a colage of vij. 
prystes wherofF on to be master, and vij. pourmen, to praye for your noble 
astate, and for the sowie of the said FastoIfF and suche othir as he was be holde 
to inperpetuite, and to inmortese and gyve to the seyd prystes, and to ther 
successours for the sustentacion of hem, and of the seyd pourmen C. marke of 
annunite and rent charge, yerly goyng owt of all maneres, londes, and teneraentz 
that were the seyd Fastolffs within the Shyres of NorfFolk and Suffolk, and vj. 
acres of londe in the sayd town of Castre, and the iiij. parte of the sayd mancion 
for the habitacion of the sayd prystes and pourmen, to be repared at the costes 
of your seyd besecher and hys heyres and assignes for ever, as suerly and law- 
fully as your seyd besecher can devise. And also be your letters patentz to 
graunt the same prystes to be one bodie incorperate, and to have succession 
perpetual], and a comon seall, and to be persones abyll to plede and be impletid, 
and to purchase and alienyn all maner londs, tenements, godes, and catell, be 
the name of the master and hys brethyrn of the collage of Saynt John Baptiste 
of Castre aforsayd. And also be your letters patentz to licence the sayd 
prystes to take and receyve, and to holde to theym and to ther successours the 
sayd annaunite, rente charge, vj. acres of lond, avowsons, and the seyd iiij. parte 
of the said mancion for ever, with owte eny fFyne or fe to be payde for the sayd 
lettres patentz, licens or grauntes be your sayd besecher, or be the said pristes. 
And thei shall pray hertly to God for you. 

Endorsed in a later hand; — Pcticio Joh'is Paston Arm' ad Regcm pro collegio in 
Caister. 



ANONYMOUS TO MASTER ROTHEWELL^ 

MAISTER Rothewell, please you to remembre, as for i464(?) 
the mater that John Paston and Sir Thomas Howys 
comownyd with you of, in whiche they desyred 
specialy the good lordship, support and helpe of my Lordis of 
Wynchestre and Beauchamp for acomplishement of the will 

1 [Add. MS. 33,597, f. 6.] This letter would seem to be of about the same date 
as No. 569. 

Ill 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

I464(?) of here testatour ^ and in esshewynge of costis. And where as 
ye meovyd to knowe the materys that were contraryed be 
otherys, we undirstonde and have knowlege of late tyme it ^ 
stondeth in these materys folwyng. 

Fyrst, the seyd Testatour be hise testament namyd the 
seyd Lordys and the seyd John Paston and Thomas Howys 
and othyr executorys, and wolde as for the admynistracion, 
kepyng and execucion of his goodis shuld be takyn and doo 
be the seyd Paston and Howys duryng here lyves, if they will 
take admynistracion ; and if ony of hem too desese or refuce 
the admynistracion, the tothyr to chese to hym on of the 
remnaunt of the executorys to execute, &c. And if bothe 
deye, noon chosyn, thanne tweyne to be chosyn be the 
executorys levyng, or the more part of hem, to admynistre 
in lyk wise. And they too that do occupye to have recourse 
to my seyd lordis and the othyr executorys in takyng here 
good avyse chargeable and requysit materys. And this is oon 
matere that othyr namyd in the Testament gruche with. Not- 
withstandyng, as for ony avauntage that we cleyme to have by 
it, we wyll be agreable to ony mean resonable that oure seyd 
lordis wyll ordeyne to the good disposecion of the goodys 
accordyng to oure testatorys intent, or to ony meane that may 
concyensly or lawefuUy be meovyd. 

Item, as for hise wyll touchyng hese goodis on mevable, as 
hese londis and tenamentis, the seyd testatour hathe at all 
tymes this xx. yeer, in all wyllis that he hathe made, ordeynid 
that a gret part of hyse seyd londis shuld goo to the fundacion 
of a collage at Castre of vij. monkys or pristis and vij. pore 
folke ; and he by hyse last wyll ordeynid that the seyd John 
Paston shuld have all the londis and tenementis in Norffolke, 
Suffolke and Norwyche ; and that the seyd Paston shuld at 
hese cost inmorteyse and indewe the seyd Collage and paye 
iiij""' mark to be dysposed for the testatouris soule, as is 
declaryd in the seyd wyll more pleynerly. And as for the 
remnaunt of the lyflode to be sold, and the mony thereof 
comynge to be disposed be thoo personys that he hathe 
ordeynid to have the execucion of hise wyll and testament. 

1 Sir John Fastolf. 2 it. ms. reads * in.' 

112 



EDWARD IV 

And as for thys matere of the Collage, there shall, be the 1464 (?) 
mene hereof, more mony growe to the handis of the mynis- 
trorys, what soo ever they bee, and also lesse labour thanne 
shuid have doo and thys hadde not bee, in cas the seyd 
mynistroris wolde intende to parforme ony will that the seyd 
Testatour made thys xx. yeer. And also it shalbe well provyd 
that the seyd Testatour was dysposed to have doo more largely 
to the seyd Paston thanne is conteynid in the seyd wyll if he 
hadde levyd the tyme to have expressyd and parformyd hise 
wyll and entent. 

Wherfor, plese my seyd lordis to take suche a direccion 
that the may undirstonde the trouthe of these materys, and 
to shewe here good lordshepys and favour accordyng to the 
trouthe in parformyng of the Testatourys wyll, and in sesynge 
of voyd costis of hese goodis. And that they will geve noo 
credence to suche as wyll upon here owyn imagynacionys for 
maleyse or invye intendyng to contrarye the dedys wyll or 
mys spende hese goodis ... 

Endorsed by another hand : — 

A letter to Rothwell or Worcester or of Watkyn Schyddam. 



FOUNDATION OF CAISTER COLLEGE 1 

Apunctuament' Regis pro fundacione Collegij apud 
Caistre^ ^c. 

THE Kyng, for the soume of CCC. mark of lawfull mony 1464 
of Inglond, or of silver plate to the valew therof, sept. 10 
grauntith to John Paston the older, Squier, to have 
licens, lawfully mad, to make and found a College of vij. prests 
and vij. pore folk at Caster, in Flegge in Norffolk, for the 
soule of Sir John Falstolf, Knyght ; thei to be indued with 
certeyn rent, and otherwise aftir the intent and effect as is 
specifijd in a bille therof, signed by the Kyng ; and that he 

1 [From Fenn, iv. 182.] 
VOL. IV. H 113 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1464 shall showe his good grase, favour, and assistence to have the 
;ept. 10 said fundacon inacted and auctorised in the parlement next 
holden, and discharge the seid John Paston and the seid prests 
of any other fyne or fee to be mad in the Chauncerie for the 
seid fundacion ; and that the Kyng shall signe and graunt 
warants for seid licens, and shewe his good grace and favour 
in the expedision therof, what tyme he be sued to therfore by 
the seid John Paston. 

Also, the Kyng grauntith to be good and favorabill Lord 
to the seid John Paston, and inespeciall in all thyngs touchyng 
the execucion of the will of the seid Sir John Fastolf, and also 
to be good and favorabill Lord to the seid John Paston, in 
supportyng and helpyng hym, in that the Kyngs Highnesse 
may lawfulle do, in such maters as are in debate athwyx the 
seid John Paston and William Yelverton, or William Jenney, 
or any other, concernyng the londs and tenements, goods or 
cattell, that were the seid Sir John Fastolfs. Also the Kyng 
grauntith to help and support the seid John Paston to opteyne 
and have to the use of the seid Sir John Fastolf such goods as 
were the seid Fastolfs deseitfuUy aloyned out of the possession 
and knowlech of the seid John Paston; and that the Kyng 
shall graunt the seid John Paston such lawfull writynggs and 
lettirs from the Kyng, directed to such persones as shall be 
behovefuU for the same, what tyme the seid John Paston suyth 
to the Kyngs Highnesse therfore. 

Also where Yelverton, or Jenney, or any Justise of the 
Peas of the Shire of Suffolk hath recorded any riot, trespas, or 
offenses to be do ayens the Kyngs peas, by the seid John 
Paston, his servaunts, or tenaunts, or frends ; or where any 
inditement or presentment is found ayens them, or any of 
them, before any of the seid Justises, for any such riot, offenses, 
trespas, or for any other mater remaynyng of record in the 
Kyngs Benche, or in any other plase, the Kyng grauntith to 
the seid John Paston, and all other persones named in the seid 
records or inditements, or in any of hem, and to alle her 
boroughs [jureties~\ and plegges, and to ich of hem that woll 
sue it, a pardon of all riotes^ trespas, offenses, felonys, for- 
fetures doon ayens the Kyngs peas, and of fynes therefore 
114 



EDWARD IV 

dempt [adjudged]^, or to be dempt, and of all other thyngs 1464 
generally, treason except, and that the Kyng shall signe warants sept. 10 
lawfull of the seid pardons, what tyme his Highnesse be 
requerid by the seid John Paston or his attornys. 

And also that his Highnesse shall do inquere and examina- 
cion be mad whedir the seid record of the seid Justises and 
presentments, and other informacions or compleynts mad ayens 
the seid John Paston, were do trewly and lawfully or nought ; 
and if it be found that thei were do otherwise thanne trought, 
lawe, or consiens woll, thanne the Kyng grauntyth to cause 
the doers therof to recompense the seid John Paston and the 
seid other persones, as far as lawe and good consiens woll in 
that behalf. 

And that if it fortune any compleynt to be mad ayens the 
seid John Paston, by any persone in tyme comyng, to the 
Kyng, that he shall take no displeasir to the seid John Paston 
till the tyme he come to his answer, and be found in defaut. 

And that the Kyng shall receyve an Qli. of the seid CCC. 
mark, what tyme he send for it, and the remnaunt as sone as 
the seid fundacion take effect ; and also that his Highnesse 
shall gete the assent of the reverent fader in God, the Arche- 
bisshop of Caunterbury, in such apoyntments as is mad athwyx 
the Kyng and the seid John Paston, of such goods as were the 
seid Sir John Fastolfs, for the delivere therof; and that if the 
seid John Paston refuse the administracion of the goods and 
catell that were the seid Sir John Fastolfs, sufFeryng other to 
take it opon hem, the Kyng, at the instauns of the seid John 
Paston, grauntith to be good and favorabill Lord to such other 
as the coors of the lawe, and assent of the seid John Paston, 
shall take the seid administracion in execucion of the seid 
Fastolfs will, touchyng the administracion of the goods and 
catell forseid, acordyng to the same wyll ; and that the Kyng 
shall not cleyme nor desire any of the londs or tenements, 
goods or catell, that were the seid Sir John Fastolf, ayens the 
seid John Paston, or any other executor, administror, or feife 
of the seid Sir John Fastolf, nor support or favour any other 
persone in cleymyng any of the seid londs or tenements, goods 
or catell, ayens any the seid administers, executores, or feffes. 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1464 And the Kyng grauntith that where as this bille is not 

SEPT. TO sufficiently mad in clauses and termes accordyng to th'entent 
therof, that his Highnesse woll take and execute the very entent 
therof, notwithstandyng the insufficiens of any such termes and 
clauses in thes bille. Wretyn at Marleburgh, the Monday 
next after the Nativite of oure Lady, the fourthe yere of the 
reigne of the Kyng. 



572 

ABSTRACTS! 

Outlawry of John Paston. 

NOV. 20 The following \vrits and copies of writs stood originally on a file in the order in 
which they are here noticed. 

I. Edward iv. to the Prior of Norwich. — Orders him to deliver to the 
bearer all goods in his hands belonging to John Paston, Esq., who is outlawed. 
Reading, 20 Nov. 

II. Writ to Edmund Clyre, Escheator of Norfolk, touching the above 
outlawry. — John Paston is here called ' the elder.' Dated 20 Nov. 

III. Supersedeas addressed to the Escheator of Cos. Cambridge and Hunts 
to stay confiscation of the goods of John Paston, who has been outlawed, first 
for trespass against William Jenney, and secondly for trespass against William 
Hogan ; of which he was convicted in Suffolk on Monday, 10 Sept., 4 Edw. 
IV. Both cases are removed by writs of error into the King's Bench. — Teste 
J. Markham apud Westin., 28 Nov., 4 Edw. iv. 

IV. Copy o£ supersedeas on the exigent issued at Jenney's suit to the Sheriff 
of Suffolk. — Teste J. Markham apud Sekbrok, 24 Aug., 4 Edw. iv. With 
the return on the writ of exigent, notifying Paston's non-appearance when 
proclaimed at the county courts held at Ipswich on Monday 21 May, Monday 
18 June, Monday 16 July, and Monday 13 Aug., 4 Edw. iv. The super- 
sedeas was delivered to the sheriff by Richard Calle in Paston's name on the 
29 Aug. 

V. Edward iv. to Sir John Markham, Chief Justice of the King's Bench. 



1 [From Paston mss., B.M.] 
116 



EDWARD IV 

— Commands him to make supersedeas upon the exigents. For, as the King 1 464 
understands, Jenney obtained judgment against Paston for _j^23 : los., and nqv. 20 
William Hogan by the support of Jenney took another action, and obtained 
a judgment of ^16 113:4' against conscience and law, as we be informed.' If 
Paston has delivered to the sheriff any writs of error to send the actions to our 
court of parliament, he is to comply, according to the usual course in such 
cases. — Fotheringay, 3 Aug. 

VI. Edward iv. to Thomas Croxton, Clerk of the Crown. — Commanding 
him to search the records and see that the processes of outlawry against John 
Paston have been well and sufficiently made out. — Reading, 3 Oct. 

Memorandum subjoined, *that William Jenney*s counsel hath openly 
vaunted in Westminster Hall that the King hath sent another letter to the 
sheriff, commanding him to certify John Paston outlawed.' 

*^* V. and VI. are copies on the same paper. 



573 

SIR WALTER BLOUNT TO THE 
PRIOR OF NORWICH 1 

To the Prior of Norwich. 

REVEREND fader in God, I recomaunde me to you. nov. 27 
And for so muche the Kyngs hyghnesse is advertysed 
ye shuld have in ... .^ certayn goodes of John 
Pastons to the value of vij: or viij. m' mark wherin the Kyng 
is entytilled by such processe of owtlawry as is awarded ayenst 
the said Paston ; Wherefor in the Kynges name I charge you 
that if any such good be in your governance ^ or within your 
monastery, ye suffer noon of thayme to passe oute of your 
garde, but suerle to kepe thaym unto the Kynges behouffe, 
unto ye tyme ye have otherwise in comaundment, as ye will 
answer at your perille and in eschewing his gret displeasur and 

1 [ms. in Pembroke College, Cambridge.] 

2 A word or two illegible. 

3 So the word seems to have been originally, but the writing is faded, and a 
modem hand has attempted to restore the beginning as ' no . . .' 

117 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1464 such jeopardies as by the lawe myght ensue to youre over gret 

NOV. 27 damage, which I ne wold. And of your disposicion herin it 

like you I may be certified in writing by the berour herof. 

And Oure Lord have you in his keping. Wryten at London 

the xxvij. day of Novembre anno Ixiiij'". 

By the Tresorer of Ingland, 

Syr Water Blount. 



574 

ANONYMOUS TO JOHN PASTON ^ 

'To my ryght worshipfull maister and brother^ 
John Paston, this letter be taken. 

i464(.'') T^ YGHT worshipfull and reverend mayster and brother, 

DEC- 3 |\ with alle my service 1 recommaunde me on to yow. 

Please hit onto your grete wysedom to have yn your 

descrete remembrauns the streite Ordre on which we ben 

professid, and on which ze er bownden to kepe your residens, 

1 [From Fenn, iii. 418.] It is difficult to assign with confidence either a date or 
a meaning to this strangely worded epistle. The signature itself is a mystery. The 
order of the Temple of Sion is unknown to archaeologists, and the place from which 
the letter is dated cannot be identified. From the peculiar device used as a signature, 
resembling what in heraldry represents a fountain, Fenn threw out a suggestion that 
Fountaine was the writer's name, remarking that a family of that name resided at 
Salle, in Norfolk, and might have been related to Paston as the writer claimed to be. 
But there seems to be an air of irony about the whole communication which forbids 
us to construe any of its statements seriously ; nor do we find the slightest allusion to 
this letter or its contents in all the rest of the correspondence. For my part, I am 
inclined to think it was a mocking letter addressed to John Paston by one of the 
prisoners in the Fleet, where Paston had himself been confined in 1464. His 
imprisonment on that occasion was probably of short duration, but I cannot tell 
the precise date of his release. He was committed to the Fleet, as we are informed 
by William Worcester (^Itinerary, p. 366), on Saturday the 3d November. If I am 
right in my conjecture about this letter, he had, perhaps, been already liberated 5 
but some of his late fellow-prisoners, probably members of the Inner or Middle 
Temple like himself, who had formed themselves into a fancy ' Order of the Temple 
of Sion,' amused themselves by speculating on the probability that he was not yet 
quite clear of the toils of the law, and that he would be obliged to come back and 
spend Christmas in gaol, among the jolly companions whom he had recently deserted. 
I may remark that the name of Thomas Babington occurs in Dugdale's Origines 
Juridiciales, p. 163, as having been elected a reader in the Inner Temple in 22 Hen. 
VII., when he seems to have been an old man ; for, owing to his sight failing, he was 
excused from reading, and John Port, who was afterwards Attorney General, and, 
later still. Justice of the King's Bench, read in his place. 

ii'8 



EDWARD IV 

and specially on this tyme of Crystmas amonggis your con- i464(?) 
frerys of this holy Ordre, the Temple of Syon ; for ynlesse dec. 3 
than ze kepe dewly the poynts of your holy Religion, owr 
Maister Thomas Babyngton, maister and soverayn of owr 
Order of th'assent of his brythryn ben avysed to awarde 
azenste yow ryght sharp and hasty proces to do calle yow 
to do your obcervauns, and to obeye the poynts of your 
Religion, which wer on to me grete hevynesse. Wherfore 
I, as he that hath most grettest cause, and ys most bownden 
on to your grete gentylnesse, and also whom nature and kynde 
most specially byfore every of alle owr breth[r]yn bynden me 
to owe and wilne yow goode wylle and trewe hert, consyderyng 
the grete tyme of penawns that ze havyn ben yn fro sone upon 
Mighelmas hederto, that ys to say, yn relevyng and sustenawns 
of your evyn Crysten,^ and also yn the charytable and meritory 
dede of almyssdoyng, that ys to say yn plenteous and liberal! 
zeftis, which ys more precyusseur than goolde er sylver, which 
hath nat be at alle tymys to your grete ease, neyther hertis 
plesauns, but rather to your grete desese and yntollerable 
peyne. And wher Godds lawe and manys lawe acorden that 
hit shall nat be lawful to non erthely man to be so lyberall 
and plenteous of that that God sendith hym, that he sholde so 
despose hit so that he sholde nowgch have to lyve by; and 
forasmych as I have perfite knowlich of your freel ^ [frail] 
and naturall disposiseon so set on to theym that ben nedy 
and hunggery that of your selfe ze have no myght, neyther 
power to absteyne and rewle yourself, but also long as God 
sendith and zevyth yow whereof to dispose and help your 
evyn Crysten ze most nedis despose hit forth a monggus your 
evyn Cristen, I conseile yow that yn also hasty and goodely 
tyme as ze kan to come on to your holy brytheryn that ben of 
that devowt and clos conversacion, to th'entent that ze myght 
ben advertysid and lernyd by theym the goode rcwle and 
messur that ze owght and sholde have yn the despociscion and 
delyng of your almys. 

* i.e. your fellow-Christians. 

' Fenn interprets this word free nvill, which I cannot think to be the meaning 
intended. 

119 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

I464(?) And also, sethnys ze haven chosen zow a place yn this 
DEC. 3 seson of Avent, yn which ze have had a resonable leysour and 
space to do your penauns yn, which drawith fast to a ende ; 
which hath been a convenyent place as for the ceson of the yer ; 
and now hit drawith fast on to Cristmas, on which tyme every 
trewe Crysten man sholde be mery, jocunde, and glad. And 
sethnys ther is no place which by lyklyhod of reason ze shulde 
fynde yn your hert to be so gladde and yocunde yn as ze sholde 
be yn the place of your profession a mounggis your holy 
brytheryn ; yn which place yn this ceson of the yer hit ys a 
custumyd to be alle maner of desport, lyke as hit is nat 
unknowe to your wisse descrescion ; wherfore, as my symple 
reason ledith me your grete descrescion sholde rewle you that 
ze sholde approche nygh the plase of your holy relegion yn also 
hasty tyme as ze code er myght, of whos comyng alle your 
saide bretheryn wolde be glade and fayn, and yn especiall I, 
your servaunt and brother, lyke as I am most syngguler 
bownden to th'encresse of your prosperite and welfar, which I 
shall ever desir with Godds mersy, which have yow undir His 
blessid and favorable proteccion. Wrytten yn the Temple of 
Syon, iij^- day of December, yn grete hast. 

By your Servaunt and brother. 



^^. 




1 20 



EDWARD IV 



575 

[JOHN PASTON] TO MARGARET PASTON 
AND OTHERS! 

To my mast res Margrete Pas tori ^ and to my welbelovid FrendiSy 
John Daubeney and Richard Calle. 

1PRAY yow, see to the god governaunce of my housold 1465 
and guydynge of other thynges touchyng my profite, and jan. 15 
that ye, with Daubeney and Richard Calle, and with other 
such of my frendis and servauntis as can avise yow aftir the 
mater requireth, wekely take a sad comunecacion of such 
thynges as be for to do, or oftenner and nede be, takyng avise 
of the master, and of the viker ^ and Sir Jamis,^ that is for to 
say, as well for provision of stuffe for myn howsold as for the 
gaderyng of the revenew of my livelode or greynes, or for 
setting awerk of my servauntis, and for the more poletik meane 
of sellyng and carryng of my malt, and for all other thynges 
necessari for to be do ; and that whanne I come home I have 
not an excuse, seying that ye spoke to my servauntis and that 
Daubeney and Calle exkuse them that thei wer so besy thei 
myght not attende ; for I woU have my mater so guided that 
if on man may not attende a nother shall be comaunded to do 
it ; and if my servauntis faile I had lever wage some other 
man, for a jorny or a season, thanne my mater should be on 
sped. 

As for my livelode, I left with Daubeney a bille of many of 
my dettis, wherby ye alle myght have be indused whedir ye 
shulde have sent for silver. 

^ [Add. MS. 34,889, f. 15.] The contents of this letter show it to be of the year 
14.65, when Daubeney and Calle, as we know, were with Margaret Paston {see No. 
576). Reference is made to the displeasure Sir John Paston had given to both his 
parents in 1463 {see No. 552), and what his mother writes about his return home in 
May of this year (No. 579) goes to confirm the date. Further proof will be found in 
the footnote at p. 126. 

2 If this be the vicar of Paston, it was William Warner, who succeeded Robert 
Williamson in 1464. 3 James Gloys, the priest. 

121 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 It liketh me evill to here that my prestis and pore men be 

JAN. 15 onpaiid, and that no mony sent to me more thanne x. markis 
be Berney of alle this season, and yet therof telle Richard Calle 
he sent me viii. nobils in goold for v. markis, and that as longe 
as gold was better payment thanne silver I had nevir so moche 
gold of hym at onys ; and telle hym that I wolle nat that he 
shall kepe that use, for I trowe my tenauntis have but litell gold 
to pay. 

Also remembir yow in any housold, felaship or cumpany 
that will be of good rewle, purvyauns must be had that every 
persone of it be helpyng and furtheryng aftir his discrecion 
and powyr, and he that woll not do so without he be kept of 
almes shuld be put out of the houshold or felachep. 

Item, where ye desire me that I shuld take your sone ^ to 
grase, I woll for your sake do the better, and will ye knowe he 
shall not be so oute of my favour that I will suffir hym to 
mischefe without be eftsones his owne defaut. And hough be 
it that in his presumptuouse and ondiscrete demenyng he gaf 
bothe me and yow cause of displeasir, and to other of my 
servauntis ille exaumple, and that also guided hym to alle 
mennes undirstandyng that he was wery of bidyng in myn 
hows, and he not insurid of help in any other place ; yet that 
greveth nat me so evill as doth that I nevir coud fele nor 
undirstand hym poletyk ne diligent in helpyng hym self, but 
as a drane amongis bees which labour for gaderyng hony in the 
feldis and the drane doth nought but takyth his part of it. And 
if this myght make hym to knowe the better hym self and put 
hym in remembrauns what tyme he hath lost, and hough he 
hath leved in idelnes, and that he coud for this eschewe to do 
so heraftir, it myght fortune for his best. But I here yet nevir 
from no plase that he hath be in of any poletyk demenyng or 
occupacion of hym. And in the kynges hows he coud put hym 
self foorth to be in favour or trust with any men of substauns 
that myght forther hym ; neverthelesse as for your house and 
myne I purpose not he shall come there, ner be my will non 
othir but if [i.e. unless] he can do more thanne loke foorth and 
make a fase and countenauns. 

1 Sir John Paston. 
122 



EDWARD IV 

Item, send me word whedir my glasier hath do at Bromholm 1465 
and at the friers of the South Towne,^ and whedir he be paiid J^n. 15 
such mony as I sent home word he shuld be paiid, and if he 
have do all he must have more mony, but I remembir not 
certeynly what, till I come home, for I remember nat what his 
bargeyn was for the work at the Southtowne. I trowe Mr. 
Clement can telle, and also fele hym self and send me word. 
Also that ye and Richard Calle and Daubeney see that Mr. 
Clement and Mr. Braklee ^ which hath grete nede I wote well, 
and my prestis and pore men be paiid and also all othir men. 
And that ye see that I be not callid on for that is my dewte. 
Also that ye see amongis yow that that is owynge me be not 
lost ne forborn for lewdnes, for that shall bothe hurt me and 
do my tenauntis harme. Lete Richard Calle remembir that 
my fermour of Sweynesthorp is falle in gret dette for defaut 
of callyng upon but be on [one] yere ; And I deme that bothe 
John Willeys and my new fermour of Snaylewell arn like to 
be in the same case, and peraventure Aleyn of Gresham and 
other. 

Item, remembir yow or evir I had a doo with Fastolffis 
livelode, whill I toke hede to my livelode my self, it both 
served myn expenses at home and at London and all other 
charges, and ye leid up mony in my cofirs every yere, as ye 
knowe. And I wote well that the payment of my prestis and 
other charges that I have for Fastolffis livelode is not so gret 
as the livelode is, thow part therof be in trobill. And thanne 
consider that I had nought of my livelode for myn expenses at 
London this twol monyth day ; ye may verely undirstand that 
it is not guided wittely nor discretly ; and therfore I pray yow 
hertly put alle your wittes to gedir and see for the reformation 
of it. And ye may remembre be this how ye shuld do if this 
wer yowris alone, and so do now. 

And that ye woU remembir I have sent yow all many lettirs 
touchyng many maters, and also a bille now last by Pecok of 
erandis, desiryng yow to see hem alle to gedir and send me an 
answere articlerly ; and such as ye can not spede at this tyme, 

^ South Town, Yarmouth, where there was a house of Austin Friars. 
2 Dr. John Brackley, the Grey Friar. 

123 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 lete hem be sped as sone as ye may, that ye se over my seyd 
JAN. 15 lettirs oft tymes til they be sped. 

Item, I remembir that myn heygh at Heylisdon the last 
yere was spent and wasted fwU recklesly and colored under my 
shep.^ I pray yow see that I be not servid soo this yere. 

Item, Pecok told me of a fermour that wold have had 
Mautby Mersh, paying xij. markis as it went afore ; and 
Richard Calle told me of on [one] that wold pay more. Burgeys 
paiid me first xij. markis vjs. viij*^,, and I had the reed and the 
rushis, and he found the shepherdis hyre in shakke tyme for my 
fold ; and sithen he brigged awey the shepherdis hyre and 
thanne the nobill, and I trowe he occupyth ne lenger hym self. 
And I remembir he told me vij . yere goo that my merssh shuld 
alwey apeyr [impair] till the prime were past the nombre of 
xix., and thanne it shuld amend a ix. or x. yers, promittyng me 
he wold thanne amend my ferme. I praye yowe help to lete it 
aswell as ye can, rather to hym thanne a nother man if he woli 
do asweU, and that ye comon with Pecok. 

Item, as for the mater that I wrote of to the viker and 
other goode felaws, desire hem that thei be not to excessive 
hasty in the mater for non nede, but to do that the may do 
therin [goodly] ^ and wittely as sone as thei may ; And as for 
the respite of the mater here, lete hem not care therfore. I 
shall do well ineugh, telle hem ; for certeyn, the mater is in as 
good case as any such mater was this xx. wynter, as my counsell 
tellyth me ; but I will be sure of all weyes that I may have, and 
specially of the declaracion of the trought of my mater and of 
my frendis. 

Item, as for the mater athwyx the parson of Mautby, 
Constantine ^ and the viker of Derham,^ whedir it were smalle 
mater or gret I care not, but I am sure that too witnesse which 
I knowe were apposed therin before a juge spiritual!, whech as 

^ Meaning, that the waste was attributed to his sheep. 

2 This word 'goodly' has been lined out, and a very illegible word inserted 
above it. 

' Constantine Dalby had been rector of Mautby from 1453 to 1460, and appears also 
to have held the vicarage of East Dereham from 1451 to 1458. He was succeeded at 
Mautby by Thomas Howes from 1460 to 1465, and then by Robert Cutler or Cottcler, 
who must be the ' parson of Mautby ' spoken of just before. 

* Robert Sheringham was vicar of East Dereham from 1458 to 1467. 

124 



EDWARD IV 

I suppose was Master Robert Popy or some other ; the viker 1465 
of Derham can telle, and as I trowe can John Wynter of JAN.15 
Mautby, or othir parysshons telle, where the sute was athwyx 
hem, and I can think it was in the chapitell ; if ye can easely 
gette me what the witnesse seid, 1 wold nomore ; but do no 
gret cost over it. 

Item, recomaund me to Master Robert Popy, and telle 
hym, as for any thyng seid ayens hym in my mater then myn 
adversaris ment ontrewly, they proved nought but that he is a 
good man and a worshipfuU and a trewe. 

Item, if I have any otis beside my stuiFe, or may any 
bye aftir xiiij<^., spare not, and take good mesure of bartirre 
for some other chafers, and send me word hough moch ye 
may bye. 

Item, it is told me ye make no wood, nowther at Caster nor 
Mautby, wherof I merveyle ; remembir yow we must brenne 
wood a nodir yere. 

Item, I send yow a titelyng that I mad whill I was at home, 
what malt I had by estimacion set at the lest ; wherfore see that 
Brigge make a reknyng of his malt, and cast ye my book and 
loke what ye can amend it ; and apeyre [impair] it shall not if 
alle folkis have do trewly ; but I suppose fewe of you have 
take any heed at it as moch as I ded. 

Item, I may selle here for vji. viij^. a quarter clene fyed 
after Royston mesure, whech is lesse thanne the water mesure 
of London. Cambrigge shire malt is here at xs. Cast ye what 
I may selle of new and old, savyng stufFe for myn hows. 
Item, to remember that Guton malt must be shipped at 
Blakeney. Item, Lynstedis malt at Wolcote may be shipped 
there ; therfore cast amongis yow what malt may best be 
sold. 

Item, if on [one] man may not attende to gader silver, 
sende a nother, and send me word what hath be reseyved and 
spent. 

Item, that I have an answer of alle my lettirs and of every 
article in hem. 

Item, but if ye make such purvyauns that my prestis 
be paiid and pore men, beside other charges, and purvey 

125 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 mony for me beside ; owther ye gadir shrewdly or ellis ye 
JAN. 15 spend lewdly. 

Item, I sent a lettir by Rauff Greneakyr to James Gresham 
and to yow, which he promised me shuld be at Norwich on 
Wednesday aftir Thwelth day, and therin wer divers maters ; 
and in especiall of a mater that shuld be in communication on 
Teusday last past bethwyx Yelverton and Robert Wyngfeld, 
as in the seid lettir is specifiid. It is so that the seid Robard 
shall be here within this ij. dayes ; if any thyng ye have aspied 
of it send me word. Item, yonge Knevet tellith me that 
he is my good frend, and he is come ridyng homeward on 
Friday last was. I pray yow, ley wetche whedir ye here any 
thyng that he mediUyth hym at that mater, and send me word ; 
for I wold understand whedir he wer just and trew or nought, 
and that do [done'] it shall not ligh in his power to hurt me. 
But take ye hed and inquere and knowe other mennes purpos, 
and kepe your intent as close as ye can ; and what some evir 
boost be mad, werk ye wisely and set not by it but send me 
word what ye here. 

Item, Calle sendyth me word that Sir Thomas Howes is 
seke and not like to askape it, and Berney tellyth me the con- 
trary ; wherfore I pray yow take hed therat, and lete me have 
knowleche, for though I be not behold to hym I wold not he 
were ded for more thanne he is worth. 

Item, take the viker the bille that I send yow herwyth. 

Item, that ye, if ye can fynd the meane, to aspie what goodis 
Edmond Clere eschetith of any mannes.^ 

Item, remember well to tak heed at your gatis on nyghtis 
and dayes, for theves, for thei ride in divers contres with gret 
- felaship like lordis, and ride out of on [one] shire in to a nother. 
Wretyn at London, the Tuisday next aftir Sent Hillary. 

Item, that Richard Calle bryng me up mony, so that my 
prestis [i.e. borrowings] be paiid, and that he come up suerly 
with other men and attornis. 

Endorsed in a later hand : — ' Some speciall lettres towching John Paston's 
trowbells and sute for Fastolfs landis by the Duke of Suffolk.' 

1 Edmund Clere, as appears by evidences in the Record Office, was eschcator of 
Norfolk and Suffolk from November 1464 to November 1465. 

126 



EDWARD IV 



576 

JOHN WYKES TO MARGARET PASTON^ 

Unto my maystres^ Margageret Paston^ be thys letter 
delyveryd in hast^ ^c. 

RYGHT wyrshypfuU maystres, I recomaund me un to 1465 
your gode maystresshyp. Please it you to wyte that feb. 7 
my mayster your hosbond, my maystres youre moder, 
my mayster Sir John, Mr. Wyllyam, Mr. Clement, and all 
ther men, wer in gode helth, whon thys letter was wryten, 
thankyd be Jesu, and also ther maters be in a gode wey, for 
my Lord Chaunseler ys ther syngeler gode Lord in thys mater 
at thys tyme; and that it provyth, for he was yesterday in the 
Escheker, and ther he had a foren hym alle the Juges, all the 
Barons of the Escheker, and all the Shurgents, and ther argued 
wher that the Barons of the Escheker shold award any such 
Comyssyon or not, and uppon that the seyd Comyssyon shuU 
be broght uppon Fryday unto the Chaunsery, and ther to be 
provyd, wher it be lafull or not, &c. 

Item, and yf it please it you to gyve Daveney ^ knowlych 
that ther ys jugement gyven uppon the condempnacion a 
yenst Hall,^ that he claymed for hys bond man, and the 
jugement ys gyven a yenst Daveney, Ric. Call, and Thomas 

1 [From Fenn, iv. 1 34.] This letter must be later than the year 1463, as Sir John 
Paston does not appear to have been knighted so early as February in that year. But 
as John Paston, the father, was at Caister and not at London in the early part of the 
year 1464, it cannot be that year. Neither can we assign it to 1466, the last year of 
John Paston's life, as it appears by a letter written on the 17th February in that year 
that although John Paston was in London, his son Sir John could not have been there 
for some time before. We are therefore shut up to the year 1465 as the only possible 
date for this letter, 

2 So in Fenn, but the name ought certainly to be Daubeney, perhaps spelt 
Dabeney. 

3 Robert Hall. I find that he brought an action in Trinity term, 3 Edward iv., 
against John Daubeney of Norwich, gentleman, and Thomas Boon and Richard Call 
of Norwich, yeomen, for having, in conjunction with William Daubeney of Sharyng- 
ton, Norfolk, Esq., unlawfully imprisoned him at Norwich for three hours on the 20th 
February, 39 Hen. vi. (1461), until he gave them a bond of j^ 100 for his ransom. 

127 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 Bon, and ther ys comen owte proces for to take ther bodys 
FEB. 7 thys same day, and if thay or any of them be taken thay shull 
never gon oute of prison on to the tyme that they have sates- 
fyed the party of viij'''' marc, and ther for lete them be ware. 
And the Holy Trinyte have you in Hys kypyng. Wryten at 
London, uppon Thursday next after the Purificacion of our 
Lady, &c. 

By your Servaunt, John Wyks. 



577 

WILLIAM WORCESTER TO 



MARCH 31 T^LEASE your maistershyp to wete that aftyr recomenda- 
m"^ cion that I sende Thomas More to myne oncle the 
parson 2 wyth certeyn credence to hafe aunsuer uppon 
by hym for myn acquytaUle another day, yfF onye thyng falle 
sinistrely only yn theyr deffaut, as God defend, not be my 
wille, for I hafe as feythfuUe demesned me seth I rode to 
London thys terme, and hedertoo as anye maner creatur yn 
reson coude desyre me ; and hafe demened me at London 
accordyng to the message sent me by the baylly of Drayton, 
and I vele but littille that my gode wille ys allowed.^ I hafe 
- also, seth I came to Norwiche, enformed hym whate profFyt 
ease and avaylle I may help stand hem both yn my maister 
godes and yn hys lyvelode ; yfF he or hys frendys set littlle by 
it, I may nat do wyth all. And the blessed Trinite be with 
yow, because ye woUe the wellfare off my maister, whoos soule 
God hafe pytie on and bryng hym owte of peyn, as the well- 
fare of the parties it meovyth me wryte to yow the rathyr. I 
enformyd yow for trouth, and as I wille prefe, that I was the 

^ [From Paston Mss., B.M.] In this letter reference is made to a 'testament' 
drawn up by Sir John Fastolf eight years previously. This, however, cannot be his 
last will, as that would carry the date to a year after John Paston's death, who seems 
to be here spoken of as living. The settlement referred to is doubtless the testament- 
ary declaration of 1457 mentioned in No. 541. 

* Sir Thomas Howes. 

' i.e. Little credit is given me for my good will. 

128 



EDWARD IV 

principall doer and cause that both Maister Paston and myne 1465 
~oncle came fyrst yn the testament vlij. yeer goon, to a gode march 31 
entent ; and yff they wold wyrke ayenst me to minussh my 
power, theyr disposicion woll be construed ferther than they 
wille it were, and they not so avaylled as they weene yn all 
thynges. The blessed Trinete be wyth yow. Wryt on 
Passyon Sonday. 

Your W. Wyrcestre. 

Memorandum to Thomas More that because ye myzt 
foryete myne erand to Maister Bernay, I pray you rede 
hym my bille, and that he wille take it to a gode entent ; 
for how so evyr I wryte I meene well, and so shall. 



578 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON ^ 

To my ryght worchepfull hoshond^ Jon Pastorty 
be this deliveryd in hast. 

RIGHT worchepfull hosbond, I recomand me to you. aprilS 
Please you to wet that I send you a copy of the deed 
that Jon Edmonds of Taveram sent to me, be the 
menys of Dorlet. He told Dorlet that he had suche a deed 
as he supposyd, that wold don ease in prevyng of the tytyll Carte 
that the Duk of Suffolk cleymythe in Drayton ; for the same ^^5^°"* 
deed that he sent me, the scale of armys is lyke onto the copy 
that I send you, and noo thyng leke to the Duk of Suffolks 
auncesters. 

1 [From Paston MSS.,iB.M.] The claims laid by the Duke of Suffolk to Drayton 
and Hellesden occupy a prominent place in this correspondence during the year 1465, 
and I do not find them alluded to in any letter of an earlier date. Moreover, the 
purchase by virtue of which the Duke laid claim to the latter manor, which is 
reported here as a secret, is mentioned again as a piece of news in a letter un- 
doubtedly written on the loth May 1465. There can be little doubt therefore that 
this letter is of the same year. The apostyle, or set of marginal notes appended, is in 
the handwriting of John Paston. 

VOL. IV. 1 129 



THE PASTON LETTERS 



1465 



Hcylisdon, 
Brythycve, 
Barker, 
Porter. 



Bracium. 



sirpi pro 
repara- 
sione de 
Mautby. 



Burgoys, 
Mareshs, 
Mauteby. 



Item, the seyd Edmond seythe, yf he may fynd any other 
thyng that may do yow ease in that mater he wolle do hys 
part therin. 

Item, Jon Russe sent me word that Barker and Herry 
Porter told hym in councell that the Duk of Suffolk hathe 
bowght one BrytyefF ryghte, the wyche makythe a cleyme on 
to Heylysdon, and the seyd Duke is proposyd to entere within 
shorte tyme after Esterne, for in so moche the seyd Russe felle 
be the seyd Barber and Porter that all the feffees wolle make a 
relees on to the Duk and helpe hym that they can in to her 
power, for to have hys good lorchep. 

Item, yf it please you, me thynkythe it war ryght nesses- 
sary that ye send word howe that ye wolle your old make be 
purveyed for ; for and any bote weder come affter that it hathe 
leyne this wynter season, it shall be but lost but yf \_un/ess'\ it 
be sold be tymys, for as for the pryse \^ price] here, it is sore 
falle. I have sold a C. comb of malt that came fro Guton, to 
Jamys Golbeter, clenefyed, and strek met, and non inmet (?), 
for ijs. ijd., the comb, and to be payed at Mydsomer and 
Lammes. 

Item, ther be dyvers of your tenantrys at Mauteby that 
had gret ned for to be reparyd, at [? but] the tenaunts be so 
por that they ar not a power to re pare hem ; wherfor yf leke 
you, I wold that the marche that Bryge had myght be kept in 
your owne hand this yer, that the tenaunts myght have ruschis 
to repare with her howsys. And also ther is wynfall wod at the 
maner that is of noo gret valewe, that myght helpe hem with 
toward toward the reparacion, yf it leke you to late hem have 
it that hathe most need therof. I have spoke with Borges 
that he shuld heyne [raise] the price of the mershe, or el) is 
I told hym that he shuld no lenger have it, for ye myght 
[have]^ other fermors therto that wold geve therfor as it 
was late befor, and yf he wold geve therfor as moche as 
another man wold, ye wold that he shuld have it befor any 
other man; and he seyd he shuld geve me answer be a forte- 
nyght after Esterne. I can get non other fermor therto yet. 

Item, I understand be Jon Pampyng that ye wolle not that 



1 Omitted in Ms. 



130 



EDWARD IV 

your sone be take in to your hows, nor holpe be you, tylle 1465 
suche tyme of yere as he was put owt therof, the wiche shall ^pril 8 
be abowght Seynt Thomas messe.^ For Gods sake, sir, a pj'^j'j^jJJ; 
pety on hym ; remembre yow it hathe bed a long season syn Johannis 
he had owt of yow to helpe hym with, and he hathe obeyed ^^^'o"- 
hym to yow and wolle do at all tymis, and wolle do that he 
can or may to have your good faderood. And at the rever- 
ence of God be ye hys good fader, and have a faderly hert to 
hym ; and I hope he shall ever knowe hymseliF the better here 
after, and be the more ware to exchewe suche thyngs as shuld 
dysplease you, and for to take hed at that shuld please you. 
Pecoke shalle telle you be mothe of more thyngs than I may 
write to you at this tyme. The blyssyd Trinite have you in 
Hys kepyng. Wretyn at Caster in hast, the Monday next 
after Palme Sonday. Your M. P. 



579 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON 2 

"To my ryght wyrshypfull husband^ John Paston, 
be thys delyveryd in hast. 

YGHT wyrshipful husbond, I recomaunde me unto may 3 
you. Pleasyd you to wyte that I have spokyn thys 
wyke with dyvers of youre tennaunts of Drayton and Drayton 
put hem in comfort that all shalbe well hereafter by the grace t^naunts 

1 This might be the translation of St. Thomas the Martyr, 7th July, or St. perter ij. 
Thomas Apostle's Day, 21st December j but most probably it means the day of St. 
Thomas a Beclcet, 29th December. 

2 [From Paston Mss., B.M.] Holy Rood Day, on which this letter is dated, 
commonly means the 14th of September (feast of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross). 
Here I suspect it is the 3rd May (Invention of the Holy Cross), as the contents of 
the letter suit that date in the year 1465. It will be seen that Margaret Paston dates 
from Caister, and proposes next week to be at Hellesden. Her next letter, dated the 
loth May, is from Hellesden, and shows that she carried out the intention here ex- 
pressed of sending men to collect money at Drayton, and had left her eldest son at 
Caister to keep the place. There is also a close agreement between that letter and 
this, in what is said about the demeanour of the tenants and Mr. Philip's conduct. 
The apostylc of this letter, as of the preceding, is in the hand of John Paston, very 
ill written, and occasionally ambiguous. 



R 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 of God ; and I fyle well by hem that they wylbe ryght glad 

MAY 3 to have ayen there olde mayster, and so wold they all except 

j. or ij. that be fals shrewys. And thys next wyke I purpose 

on Wensday or Thursday to be at Haylesdon, and to a byde 

ther a wyke or ij., and send oure men aboute to gedere money 

at Drayton and Haylesdon; and yf ye wyll I woU do kepe a 

corte at Drayton or I com thens. I pray yow send me word 

how ye wyll that I doo there in. I recevyd ij. letters from 

you of Nicholl Tolman yesterday, werin ye desyre that we 

Malt, shuld purvey for your make and barley ; and soo shall we 

barly. (j^qq ^s ^eU ^s we cann, and send you word howe that we may 

doo therewith in hast. 

Item, yesterday Master Phylyp^ toke Dorlets hors uppon 

Drayton lond as they went to the plowe for the hole yere 

ferm ; and as it ys told me the tenaunts of Drayton tolde 

hym that he dyde hym wrong to make hym pay for the hole 

yere, for non of the tenaunts had payd hym but for the di' 

Dorlat et [^ha/f] yere and he say thohg they had not payd but for the di' 

\7p^ yere, Paston shuld pay for the other di' yere, and for moo 

yers also yf he lyvyd. But I trow to gyte Dorlet ayen hys 

hors or els Mr. Phylyp ys lyke to be unhorssyd ons, and we 

lyve all. Your son - shall com hom to moryn, as I trowe, and 

as he demenyth hym hyr after I shall lete you have knowlych ; 

J. P., sen. and I pray you thynk not in me that I wyll supporte hym ne 

favour hym in no lewdnesse, for I wyl not. As I fynd hym 

hereafter, soo I wyll lete you have knowlych. I have put 

your evydens that com owte of the abbay^ in a seek and 

enseylyd hem under Ric. Call ys seall that he shal not say 

Rotuli but they eryn as he left hem ; but as for the place where 

prions (?) they ern kypt he hath no knowlych 

. As for the gentylwoman that ye wrote to me for yn 

youre lettere, I there, 

yf it lykyd all folks as well as it shold doo me, I trow 

a bowte yf her frends were as well a 

gryed therto, and as they parte, 

» Philip Lipgate, the Duke of Suffolk's bailiff. 
' Sir John Paston. 
3 See No. 561. 

132 



EDWARD IV 

yf ye wyll that it be movyd of more hereafter I wyll 1465 

wyll make a newe parson, at Dray- "ay 3 

ton. Also it ys sayd that there, 

by cause it hath stond so long voyd ; yet and any sh. 

. had lever that he com in by the Byshop then by a 

doo therein yf ye wyll send horn 

any presentacion selyd we shall a 

say to gyte som gode priste and sette hym .... 

. . Wryten in haste at Caster on Holy Rode Day &c. 

As doo therein as well as I cann. 

I have gyte a replevy n CC shype, 

and yf they may not be hadde ayen, then he grau[nteth] 

We fynd hym ryght gode in that Data 

we desyre of him for you, and therfore yf it lyke you I wold °.^''S^' 
he were th proovibus. 



580 

JOHN RUSSE TO JOHN PASTON^ 

To the right worshypfull sir, my right honourabyll 
maistery John Paston, at London, 

RIGHT worshipfull sir and my right honorabyll maister, "ay 6 
I recomaund me to you in the most humble wise. 
And please youre maistir ship to wete that my mais- 
tresse hathe dyverse tymes spokyn to me to helpe to purvey a 
merchaunt for sum of youre malt ; but in good feyth I can 
gete no man that wyll geve at the most more than xxij^. for a 
quarter, for soo men selle dayli at the moste, and sumtyme 
xx(^. a combe. My maistresse is right hevy therfor, but I can 
not remedy it ; if ony good marchaunt were there, after my 
sympil conseyt it were good to take hym, for the yeer passith 
faste and the [feldes] ^ be right plesaunt to wards, &c. Sir, at 

1 [From Paston Mss., B.M.] As this letter refers to the Duke of Suffolk's claim 
to the manor of Drayton, the date must be 14.65. The original MS. is mutilated to 
some extent in both margins. 

2 The tops of the letters f, 1, d visible. 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 the reverence of Jesu, laboure the meanys to have peas ; for 

MAY 6 be my trowth the contynwaunce [of this] trobill shall short the 

dayez of my maistresse, and it shall cause you to gret losse, 

for serteyn she is in gre[t hevijnesse as it apperith at . . . 

11 covertly she consederith the gret 

decay of youre lyflode, the gret detts that hange in detours 

hands and h [she 

speaketjh not thus to me, but I conceyfe this is cause of here 
gret hevynesse ; me semyth of ij. hurts the leste is mos[t] . 

well the dayli 

contynewyng maleyse of youre insessiabyll enemyes, how they 

contryve and seke occacions to informyd, 

more wyll doo every foot of grownd withinne fewe dayez, and 

rather to geve it awey for nowght tha[n] it. 

Where as they many tymes have meovyd a trety and never it 
taketh to noo conclucion, and as they have seyd in youre d . 

Sir, after my sympyll conseyt it were well 

doon to agree to a trety, and be that ye shuld knowe ther 

desyre and the uttir the lond were 

dubyll the valwe that it is. Worsestyr shewyth hem presedents 
what every maner cost at the fyrst byeng, and ther 

rekne the bargeyne shuld avayle you foure 

tymes mor than it shall ; and in thys they be gretly blyndyd ; 
my maister the parson hathe .... to rellesse in serteyn 
londs whiche he refus[eth to] doo, but I conseyve, and ye 
drawe not to a conclucion thys terme that he wyll be as redy 
to rellesse .... men, truste ye thys for serteyn ; and 
soo he [told] me serteynly. He hathe be meovyd to revoke 
Maister Roberd Kente and to take the avoket or proctor [that] 
Maister Yelwirton hathe. What it myght hurtyn if he soo 
dede I knowe not, but they have made gret labour to hym 
therfor. He gaf me a gret reb[uke] .... the bill 
that was put in ayens Elyse Davy and otheris, to whiche I 
answeryd hym as me thowght and soo in maner made my 
peas, &c. Maister .... was here and in presence of 
men of the most substance in Jeremuth he be havyd hym to 
you wards in full goodly termys, soo God helpe .... 
and after my conseyt he wyll not be redy to relesse in ony of 
134 



EDWARD IV 

the londs. A man of hyse teld me secretly that Maister 1465 
Yelwyrton and otheres blamyd hym and seyd .... to **^^ ^ 
hym be cause he was so redy be hym self to agree to trete and 
make hyse peas with yow, neyther he seyd to me to trete nor 
the contrary nor had but langwage to me as he had to othyr. 
I askyd my maister the parson if he undyrstod that Maister 
Yelwyrton yaf ony favour to my Lord of Suffolk in Drayton, 
and he seyd he supposyd Maister Yelwyrton was not cler of 
that mater, but Mayster Jenney was in nowyse pleasyd with 
all, &c. Sir, as for the wytnesse that were desyred to be redy 
whan nede requirith.in thys mater, R. Calle can avertise youre 
maistirshyp. Sir, at the reverence of Jesu consedre how many 
yeers it is past that my good lord and maister deseasyd and 
how lytill is doon for .... of the grete substaunce 
that he hade it is hevy to remembre ; ye sey the defaute is not 
in yow after your conseyt, but I can here no .... in 
that of youre openyon, for thys I knowe for serteyn and it had 
pleasyd you to have endyd be the meanys of trety, ye had 
ma[de] . . . peas to the gret well of the dede with the 
forthe part of the mony that hathe be spent, and as men sey 
only of very wylful[nesse of your] owyn person. For the 
mercy of God remembre the onstabylnesse of thys wold hou 
it is not a menut space in comparyson to ever .... 
. . . leve wylfullnesse whyche men sey ye occupye to 
excessifly. Blyssyd be God ye had a fayre day laste whiche 
is noysyd cost yow .... to iiij. lords, but a newe 
mater anewe cost and many smale growe to a gret summe, 
and summe mater on recurabyll, formen seyd .... is 
lyk to stonden in a perplextif if ye take not a conclucion in 
haste, and if it were doo it were hard to have recovery ; but 
as my [maister] the parson seyd, thys terme they wyll prove 
if ye wyll agree to trete, and if ye refuse they all wyll do the 
uttirmest. I conseyve well [your] maistirshyp hathe a conseyt 
that if a man of good will meove yow or remembre you to 
trete, that that man, what soo ever he be, shuld be meovyd be 
youre adversaryez to meove you in that mater, and soo in that 
it hertyth you gretly that they shuld seke to you for peas. 
Be my trowth, sir, there was nor is no man, savyng onys, as 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 I teld you, Maister Jenney spake to me, that ever I knewe wold 
MAY 6 seke or feythefully desyre to have peas with yow, savyng 
because of the exspence of the good so onprofitably in the 
lawe, and that is the prynsypal cause of meovyng of ther 
peas, &c. I wold well God helpe me soo it grevyth me to 
here that ye stonde in no favour with jentylmen nor in no 
gret awe with the comowns. Ye truste the jury'- of Suffolk ; 
remembre what promyse Daubeney hade of the jury and what 
it avaylid ; it is a dethe to m[e] to remembre in what prosperite 
and in what degre ye myght stonde in Norfolk and Suffolk 
and ye had peas and were in herts ease, and what worshyp my 
maisters your sones and my maistresse youre douters myght 
have be preferryd to if ye had be in reste, A day lost in idyll 
can never be recoveryd, &c. Sir, I beseke youre maistershyp 
for yeve me that I wryte thus boldly and homly to you ; me 
thynkyth my hert .... not be in ease but if I soo 
doo, for ther was, nor never shal be, no mater that ever was 
soo ner myn herte, that knowy[th God,] whom I beseke for 
Hese infenyt mercy preserve you and my maistresse and all 
youres from all adversyte and graunt yow .... herts 
desyre. Wretyn at Jernemuthe the vj. day of may. 

Your contynw[al bedesman] 
and servaunt, John [Russe]. 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON 1 

To my mayster^ John Paston the oldest be thys delyveryd. 

in hast. 

RYGHT wyrshypfull husbond I recomaund me unto you. 
Pleysed you to wyte that on Wensday last passyd 
Dabeney, Naunton, Wykes and John Love werr at 
Drayton for to speke with your tenaunts ther to put hem iu 

* [From Paston Mss., B.M.] The date of this letter is rendered certain by the 
mention of Thomas Ellis as having been elected Mayor of Norwich. He was so 
elected for the second time in 14.65. He had been Mayor before in 1460-61, and was 
again after this in 1474-75 j but neither of these latter dates will suit the other contents 
of this letter. Like some others of this year, this letter is apostyled by John Paston. 

136 



MAY 10 



EDWARD IV 

comfort and for to aske money of hem also. And Pyrs Waryn, 1465 
otherwyse callyd Pyrs at Sloth, whych ys a flykeryng felowe ^^\ ^o 
and a besy with Mr. Phylyp and the Bayly of Cosshay, he had p^^ 
a plowe goyng in your lond in Drayton, and ther your seyd Warin. 
servaunts at that tyme toke hys plowe ware, that ys to say ij. 
marys, and broght hem to Heylysdon, and ther they be yet. 
And on the next mornyng after Mr. Phylyp and the Baylly of 
Cosshay com to Haylysdon with a grete nomber of pepell, 
that ys to say viij.'"'- men and mor in harnysse, and ther toke 
from the persons plowe ij. hors, pris iiij. marc and ij. hors of 
Thomas Stermyns plowe, pris xb., saying to hem that ther Distr' 
was taken a playnt avenst hem in the hunderd by the seyd stuimyn 
Pyrs for takyng of the forseyd plowarre at Drayton, and but de Heylis- 
they wold be bond to com to Drayton on Tewysday next don. 
comyng to awnswer to such maters as shalbe sayd to them 
ther they shold not have ther bests ayens ; whych they refusyd 
to do on to the tyme that they had an awnswer from you ; 
and so they led the bestes forth to Drayton, and from Drayton 
forth to Cosshay. And the same after none folwyng the 
parson of Haylesdon send hys man to Drayton with Stermyn 
for to speke with Mr. Phylyp to know a way yf they shuld 
have ayen ther cattell or not ; and Master Phylyp awnsweryd 
them yf that they wold bryng home ther destresse ayen that 
was taken of Pyrs Waryn, that then he wold dylyver hem 
thers, or els not ; and he lete hem playnly wyte that yf ye or Crak. 
any of your servaunts toke any dystresse in Drayton that were 
but the valew of an hen, they wold com to Haylesdon and 
take ther the valew of an ox therefore, and yf they cannot 
take the valew therof there, that then they wyll do breke your 
tenaunts howsys in Haylesdon, and take as moch as they 
cowd fynd therein ; and yf they be lettyd therof, wych shall 
never lye in your power for to do, for the Duck of Suffolk ys 
abyll to kepe dayly in hys hows more men then Dabeney hadde 
herys on hys hede, yf hym lyst ; and as for Dabeney he ys a 
lewde felowe, and so he shalbe servyd herafter, and I wold he 
were here. And therfore yf ye take uppon you to lette them 
so for to do, that then they wold goo in to any lyflode that ye 
had in Norfolk or Suffolk, and to take a destresse in lykewysse 

137 



THE PASTON LETTERS 



1465 

MAY 10 



Accio 
rectoris et 
Sturm jTi. 



as they wold do at Haylysdon. And other awnswerr cowde 
they non gyte, and so they departyd. Ric. Calle axid the 
parson and Stermyn yf they wold take an accyon for ther 
catell, and the parson ^ seyd he was agyd and syklow, and he 
wold not be trobelyd herafter ; he sayd he had lever lose hys 
catell, for he wyst well yf he dyde so he shold be endytyd, and 
so vexid with hem that he shold never have rest by hem. As 
for Stermyn, he sayd at that tyme he durst not take no sute 
ayenst hem nother; but after that Ric. was rydyn, I spake 
with hym, and he sayd he wold be rulyd as ye wold have hym, 
and I fond hym ryght herty and wel dysposyd in that mater ; 
and he is bownde to you an obligacyon of x//. sengyll with 
outen condycyon that he shall abyde by such accyons as shalbe 
takyn by your advyse in hys name ; wherfore I have send you 
a tytelyng therof in a byll closyd herin. I axyd Thomas Gryne 
avyse when they had take the dystresse hyre, and he avysyd 
me that herre destresse shold be dely veryd a yen to them so 
that we myzt have ayen ours ; and me thoght it was non 
awnswer after myn entent, and wold not therof but axyd avyse 
of Skypwith what hym thoght that were best to doo there in, 
and most wyrshypfuU. He seyd by hys avyse that I shold 
send to you in al the hast that I cowde, and that ye shuld 
fynde a mene therfore above, by the avyse of youre lernyd 
counsell to have a wrytte from above for to delyver yt of lesse 
then the undershyrff werre other wysse dysposyd to you then 
we fynde hym, for it symyth that he ys made of the other 
party. And as for the replevyn for the CC. shype ys not yet 
Replevin, servyd. Skypwyth thynkyth that ye myzt have a wrytte both 
for the shype and the destresse now taken at Haylysdon, I 
pray you that ye wyll send word in hast how [ye] woll that 
we doo in thys maters. Skypwith went with me to the Byshop 
of Norwych, and I lyte hym have knowlych of the ryotous 
and evyll dysposicyon of Master Phylyp, desyryng hys Lord- 
shyp that he wold see a mene tha[t] a correccyon myzt be 



Episcopus 
Norwic'. 



^ Thomas Hert, perhaps a relation of the Bishop of Norwich, was presented to the 
rectory of Hellesden by Sir John Fastolf in 1448, but how long he held it is uncertain, 
as the list of rectors is very defective, and the next name that appears on it is George 
Gardiner in 1579. 



EDWARD IV 

hadde, in as moch as he was chef Justic of the Peas and hys 1465 
ordynare, and inasmoch as he was a prest^ and under hys may 10 
correccyon that he shold have understondyng of hys dysposi- 
cyon ; and I made Dabeney to tell hym all the mater howt it 
was ; and he seyd he wold send for hym and speke with hym. 
And he told me of dyvers thyngs of the demenyng of hym, 
wherby I understode he lykyd not by hys dysposicyon nor 
demenyng in thys mater nor in no nothyr ; for it symyd he 
had provyd hym what he ys in other maters. My lord seyd Episcopus 
to me that he wold ryght fayn that ye had a gode conclusyon ^orwic . 
in your maters, and seyd by hys trouth, that he ought you 
ryght gode wyll, and wold ryght fayn that ye wer com home, 
and seyd to me that it shold be a grete comfort to your 
frends and neghbors, and that your presens shold do more 
amongs hem, than a C, of your men shold do in your absens, 
and more, your enmys wold ferr to do ayens you yf ye myght 
be at home, and steryng amonges hem, and seyd full playnly 
in meny other thyngs it wer to long to wryte at thys tyme, as 
Skypwith shall tell you when he comyzt to you. I pray you skipwith, 
thanke Skypwith of hys gode wyll, for he was ryght well 
wyllyd to go with me and yeve me hys avyse, me thynkyth he 
ys ryzt well wyllyd to you. 

Item, I pray you send hastely word how that ye wyll that Per' 
we be gydyd with thys place, for as it ys told me, it ys^^x''*-' 
lyke to stond in as grete jupardy in hast as othere don. (Dn 
Thursday al day there were kept in Draton logge in ; to Ix. 
persons, and yet as it ys told me, ther be within dayly and 
nyztly in to a xvj. or xx. persons. 

Item, it ys told me that Thomas Elys of Norwych, whych Elys, 
nowe ys chosyn Mayer, seyd at Drayton that yf my Lord of 
Suffolk nede a C. men he wold purvey hym therof, and yf any 
men of the town wold go to Paston he wold do lay hem faste 
in prison. I wold youre men mygh have a supersedias ^ owte Super- 
of the chauncere, and be owte of the danger of ther men here ; s^deas. 
and I pray you let not Wyll Naunton be foryete therin. Ric. Naunton. 

1 Philip Lepeyate was presented to the rectory of Salle in Norfolk, in 1460, by 
Thomas Brewse, Esq., afterwards father-in-law of John Paston, the youngest. 

2 i.e. Periculum Heylesdon. 3 Sq jn ms. 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 Calle and other can tell you of hys demenyng ; and I pray you 

MAY 10 that ye be not dysplesyd for his abydyng with me, for in gode 

feth he hath ben a grete comfort to me syn ye departyd hens, 

as I wyll lete you wyte hereafter. I pray you yf hys brother 

com to you for a relesse of hys londe, lette him non have on 

to the tyme that ye see hys faderes wyll, the whych I wote 

wher it ys, and that it like you to desyre hym to be gode 

brother to him. 

J. Paston Item, I have left John Paston the older at Caster, to kype 

M^^at^ ^^^ place there, as Ric. can tell you; for I had lever, and it 

Heylisdon. pleasyd you, to be captensse here then at Caster ; yet I was 

nothyng purposyd to abyde here when [I] come from home 

but for a day or ij., but I shall abyde here tyll I here tydyngs 

from you. 

Item, it ys told me that the Duck of Suffolk hath boght 
Brightled. or shal by in hast the ryzt that on Bryghtylhed hath in 
Haylesdon, &c. 

Item, as for the evydens that Watkyn Shypdam hadd, he 
Evidens. delivered to hys wyffe a box enselyd with hys owyn seall by 
Pekenng. j^yg j^.^^ f^^ ^^ ^^ delyveryd to you, whych box she delyveryd 
to Ric. Call under the same seall after hys dessesse. Ric. can 
tell you of the gydyng of the cofere with other boks that were 
Evidens. at Shypdams. And as for all your other evydens ye ther not 
Norwic . ^ggj. g^g £qj. ^}^g gy^^ ^f hem, for ther hath nor shall no man sen 

hem tyll ye com horn. I can not fynd that ye send to me fore 

to have oute of the rolle. 
Colt. Item, I here no word of Colte of New Castell, nor of no 

^^'^- nother from you that shold have your malte, but I have spoken 

to the Viker, John Rus and Robert Boteler, to help for to sell 

your malte, and as we can do therein, we shall send you word. 
Praepositus j-j^g Provest of Cambrygge ys com into thys contry and 
[Cantab].! Dabeney shall receve of hym that longyth to you on Monday 

or Tewysday, and he shall have hys delyveryd accordyng to 

your wrytyng. 
Mater. Item, my moder told me that she thynkyth ryght strange 

that she may not have the profects of Clyre ys place in peasabyll 

wyse for you, she seyt it ys hers and she hath payd most ther- 

! This word is left blank by Paston. 
140 



EDWARD IV 

fore yet, and she sayth she wyll have the prefects therof, or 1465 
ells she wyll make more folk to speke therof. She seyth she "ay 10 
knowyt not what ryght ne titell that ye have therin but yf ye 
luste to trobell with herre, and that shold be no wyrshep to 
you ; and she sayth she wylbe ther thys somer and repayre the 
housyng ther. In gode feyth I hyre moch langage of the 
demenyng betwene you and herre. I wold ryght fayn, and so 
wold many moo of youre frendes, that it were otherwyse 
bytwene you then it ys, and yf it were I hope ye shold have 
the beter spyde in all other maters. I pray God be your gode 
spyde in all your maters, and yef yow grace to have a gode 
conclusyon of hem in haste for thys ys to wyry a lyfFe to a byde 
for you and all youre. Wryten in haste at Haylysdon the x. 
day of May. 

The cause that I send to you this hastely ys to have an 
awnswer in haste from you. 

Your M. P. 



582 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTONi 

7^0 my ryght wyrshypfull mayster^ John Paston the oldest y he 
this delyveryd in haste. 

IRECOMAUND me, &c. 
Yf it pleasyd you, I wold ryght fayn that John Jenney may 13 
werre putte oute of the Comyssyon of the Peas, and that 
my brother Wyll. Lumner wer set yn hys stede, for me 
thynkyth it wer ryght necessere that ther were such a man 

1 [From Fenn, iv. 164.] There can be little doubt this letter was written in the 
year 1465, when Margaret was troubled by Mr. Philip Lipgate and the Duke of 
Suffolk's bailiff of Cossey. It maybe observed also that Margaret here dates from 
Hellesden, and speaks of having been recently at Caister. Compare Nos. 579 and 581. 
Further, the name of John Jenney is found on the Commission of the Peace for Nor- 
folk, dated the ist April 1465 (Patent, 5 Edward iv., p. i, m. 32), but it is not on 
the commission issued on the 20th February following (zA, m. 27) ; so that John Paston 
seems to have acted on his wife's suggestion and been successful in getting him 
removed. 

141 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 in that county that oght you gode wyll, and I knowe verely he 
MAY 13 owyth you ryght gode wyll ; he was with me at Caster but 
late. Yf ther be made any labour for Doctour Alyn to be 
Justice of the Peas, I pray you for Gods sake let it be lettyd yf 
ye may, for he wyll take to moch upon hym yf he werr. I 
wold not that he wer remembyrd of your parte but yf [unless] 
he be spokyn of of other parts : he ys ryght grete with Master 
Phylyp Lypzate and the Baylyf of Coshay. 

Yf it please yow to wyte that Wyks dyde a reste one Wyll. 
Dylmyn of Norwych, as Pampyng can enforme you of, for 
sertyn harnys wych he delyveryd hym at New Castell for to 
cary to Yarmoth by water, and ther to delyver it to hym ayen ; 
whych harnys he kypt styll, and may not be delyveryd ; and 
now ther ys com down an habeas corpus for hym, and most 
appyr at the Comyn Place \Comtnon Pleas'] on Fry day next 
comyng. Wherfor yf it pleased you that ther myght be taken 
an accyon in Wyks name of trespas under such forme as ther 
may be a capias a wardyd a yenst hys comyng ; for after that 
he was arestyd he dyde Daubeney to be arestyd for maynten- 
yng ; and as for the harnys Wyks delyveryd it to hym the x. 
day of Januar, the ij. yer of Kyng E.-"^ in Pylgryme strete, at 
New Castell : Inprimis, a peyr brygandyrs, a salet, a boresper, 
a bawe, xviij. arwys, ij. payr polronds [shoulder pieces]^ a standard 
of mayle, a payr slyvys of plate, to the valew of v. marc. And 
at the reverens of God, slowth not your maters nowe, and make 
any end of hem, other purvey you to make hym or to marre 
hem in haste, for thys ys to orybyll a coste and trobell that ye 
have and have had, for to endur any whyle, and it ys grete 
hevenys to your frends and welwyllers, and grete joy and com- 
fort to your ennemyes. My Lord of Norwych seyd to me 
that he wold noth abyde the sorow and trobell that ye have 
abyden, to wyn all Sir John Fastolf ys gode. And God be 
your spede in all yor maters. Wryten at Haylesdon the xiij. 
day of May. 

I thynk ryght long to hyr tydyngs tyll I have tydyngs 
from you. Your M. P. 

^ A.D. 1463. This was at the time the King was in the north, when Alnwick 
Castle surrendered to him. 

142 



EDWARD IV 

583 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON^ 

To my ryght wyrshypfull husbond^ John Paston^ by thys 
delyvery\d^ in hast. 

PLEASE it you to wyte that on Satourday last your 14^5 
servaunts Naunton, Wyks, and other, wer at Drayton, "■^^ ^° 
and ther toke a dystresse for the rent and ferm that 
was to pay, to the nomber of Ixxvij. nete, and so broght them 
horn to Hayllesdon, and put them in the Pynfold, and so kept 
hem styll ther from the seyd Satour day mornyng un to 
Monday,^ at iij. at clok at after non. Fyrst on the same Satour 
day the tenants folwyd uppon, and desyryd to have ther catell 
ayen ; and I awunsweryd hem, yf they wold do pay such dewts 
as they oght for to pay to you, that then they shold have ther 
catell delyveryd ayen ; or els yf they wer not a power to pay 
redy money, that then they to fynd sufiycyant suerty to pay 
the money at such a day as they mygh agrye with me, and 
therto to be bonden to you by obligacyon ; and that they seyd 
they durst not for to take uppon hem for to be bonden, and as 
for money they had non for to pay at that tyme, and therfor I 
kept stylle the bestys. 

Harleston was at Norwych, and send for the tenants the 
seyd Satour day at after non, and ther, by the menys of the 
Bayllyf of Coshay, put the tenants in such feer, sayng that yf 
they wold pay such dewts, or els for to be bonden to pay, that 
then they wold put hem owte of such londs as they huld bondly 
of the Lordshyp, and so to dystrayn hem and trobell hem, that 
they shuld be wery of ther part ; and that put hem [in] such 
feer that they drust nother pay nor be bonden. 

And on the same day at evyn-song time Harleston com to 

^ [From Fenn, iv. 200.] A comparison of this letter with No. 581 will leave no 
doubt that they" were both written in the same year. 
' This was the day the letter was written. 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 me to Haylesdon, desyryng me that I wold delyver a yen 
MAY 20 the seyd dystresse ; and as for such dystressys as they had 
taken here of your tenants shold be delyveryd a yen in lyke 
forme ; and I seyd I wold not delyver hem soo, and I told 
hem that I wold delyver hem as ys wryten a fore and other 
wyse not, and other wyse I wold not delyver hem but by the 
form of lawe. And other comynycacyon was had by twene us 
at that tyme of dyvers maters whych wer to long to wryte at 
thys tyme, but ye shall have knowlych therof in hast. 

And on Monday next after at ix. at clok ther com Pynche- 
mor to Haylesdon with a replevyn,^ whych was made in 
Harleston ys name as Understewerd of the Duche [Duchy'jy 
sayng that the bests were taken uppon the Duche Fee, wherfor 
he desyryd me to mak hym levery of the seyd bests so taken ; 
and I seyd I wold not delyver hem on to the tyme that I had 
cxamenyd the tenants of the trough [truth]. And so I send 
theder Wyks with Pynchemor to understond what they wold 
say ; and the tenants seyd that ther was taken non uppon the 
Duche at ther knowlych, save only Pyrs Warryn the yonger. 
And Paynter seyd that ther catell was taken uppon the Duche, 
whych they connot prove by non record, save only by ther 
awyn sayng ; and so we wold not a bey that replevyn, and so 
they departyd. And at iij. at clock at after non Pynchemor 
come to Haylysdon a yen with ij. men, whych broght with hem 
a replevyn from the Shyryff, whos namys be John Whytherley 
and Robert Ranson, whych requyryd me by the same replevyn 
to make them delyvery of the seyd bestys taken at Drayton ; 
and so I, syyng the Shyryffs replevyn and under hys seale, bade 
my men delyver hem, and soo they wer delyveryd. 

And as for all other maters that ye have wretyn to [me] of, 
I wyll spede me to send you a awnswer as hastely as I may, for 
I may no leysor have to wryte no more to you thys tyme. The 
blyssyd Trynyte have you in His kepyng. Wryten at Hayles- 
don, the XX. day of May. 

By yours, M. P. 

1 This is a writ for restitution of cattle that have been distrained or impounded. 
It was commonly granted by the sheriff on security being given that the party would 
bring the matter to an issue at law. 

144 



EDWARD IV 



584 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTONi 

To my ryght wyrshypfull husband^ John Pas ton, 
he thys delyveryd in haste. 

RYGHT wyrshypfull husbonde, I recomaunde me to you. 1465 
Please it you to wyte that I have send to Master ^^"^ ^7 
John Smyth and to Master Stephyn to have a vyse 
for the church of Drayton ; and they send me word that ther 
moste be had a comyssion from the Byshop to calle in the 
person Fjowredew,^ and that most be proclaymyd in the church 
of Drayton iij . tymes by a Deen,^ and after that yff he appyre 
not with in vj. monthys after the fyrst proclamacion, that then 
he for to be depryvyd, and the patron to present whom he 
luste, and ells your presentacyon ys not sufficyant. And I 
have so purveyd that a comyssyon ys hadde, and shal be servyd 
as hastely as it may be. 

As for John Rysyng, I have sent to hym to wyte the cause 
that he ys not broght up to London, and he sayth that he 
callyd uppon the ShyrfF that he myght be had up for [to] com 
to hys awnswer, and the Shyrff told hym that he wold not 
bryng hym up at hys owyn coste ; and John Andres seyd that 
he wold not have hym up, and so he ys styll in prison at 
Ipswych ; and so shall he be but yf ye canne fynde the beter 
mene for to have hym oute. I have sent to hym xiij^* iiij*^- to 
help hym sylf ther with ; he payth for hys borde wykely xx*^- 
And Hopton and Smyth be ther styll allso, and they have 
money ynogh, wher som ever that they have it. Rysyng 

1 [From Fenn, iv. 206.] What is said here about the tenants of Hellesden and 
Drayton, and about Master Philip Lipyate, leaves no doubt that this letter was written 
in 1465. It contains, moreover, a distinct reference to Letter 582. 

2 John Flowerdew was instituted to the Rectory of Drayton on the 1 5th of March 
1461, on the presentation of John Paston, Esq., and Thomas Howes, Clerk. — F. 

^ This means the Rural Dean, who had a district of ten churches in the country, 
wherein he exercised a jurisdiction of great advantage to ecclesiastical discipline, and 
the sentences of superior Ecclesiastical Courts were to be executed by him. — F. 
VOL. IV. K 145 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 dymeth that they have confort of the other party ; and I send 
MAY 27 you a copy of the warant that they wer a restyd by, &c. 

I spake not with my moder syn Rychard Calle broght me 
the letter from you tochyng her mater, for I myght have no 
lesor. While I speke with her at leysure I wyll remember her 
in that mater, acordyng to your wrytyng. And as for your 
tenants of Drayton, as I canne understond by hem, they be 
ryght gode and trew hertyd to you to ther powers, and full 
fayn wold that ye had it a yen in peasse, for they had as lefFe 
al most be tenants to the Devell as to the Duke, except Wyll. 
Heme, Pers at Sloth, and on Knott of the same towne, for 
they be not gode. 

All your tenants at Haylesdon and Drayton, except thes 
iij., be ryght glad that we err ther a mongs hem, and so 
be many other of our olde nebers and frends ; and but yf 
[unless'] ye com horn by Wensday or Thursday ^ in Wytson 
wyke, I purpose me to ssee you in secrete wyse by Trynyte 
Sonday,^ but yf \_unless~\ ye send to me contrary comaunde- 
ment er that tyme ; and I pray you send me yeur avyse how 
ye wyll that we doo a yenst the next shyr, whych shulbe the 
Monday next after Trynyte Sonday, as for callyng uppon the 
replevyn that the bests of Drayton wer delyveryd by. 

Item, Richard Calle told me that ye desyryd to have 
Master Phylyp ys name, and hys name ys Phylyp Lypzeate, 
and I send you a letter^ by Henre Wylton ys man, wherin I 
wrote Master Phylyp ys name ; and in the same letter I wrote to 
you for Wyll. Lumnor. I pray you send me word yf ye have 
it. And the Blysshyd Trynyte have you in Hys kypyng. 
Wryten the Monday next after Assencyon Day.'* 

By yours, M. P. 

1 5th or 6th of June. * 9th of June. 

^ No. 582. * 23rd of May. 



146 



EDWARD IV 

58s 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTONi 

'To my ryght wyrshypfull husbond, John Paston^ 
be thys letter delyveryd. 

RYGHT wyrshypfull husband, I recomaunde me unto 1465 
you. Please it you to wyte that I recevyd letters june 11 
from you on Wensday laste passyd, the were wryten 
the Monday next before, wherof I thanke you of the letter 
that ye send to me. I wolde fayn doo well yf I cowde, and as 
I canne I wol doo to youre pleasure and profet ; and in such 
thyngs as I cannot skyle of, I wyll take a vyse of such as 
I know that be youre frendes and doo as well as I canne. 
Wher as ye wrote to me that Lydham told you that I told 
hym that the Ducks men werre not so besy as they had be 
by fore, no more thay were not at that tyme, but sythen thay 
have be bysyer. What confort that thay have I canne not 
have no knowlych as yet, but I suppose and all your felshyp 
were gode, thay shold not have so grete confort as they have, 
or ells they wold not be so besy as thay have be. Grete host 
thay make that the Duck shold have Drayton in peas, and 
after thys Haylesdon, and that with in short tyme ; thay er 
moch the bolder, I suppose, by cause that ye be wher as ye be. 
At the reverens of God, yf ye may by any wyrshypfull or 
resonabell mene, com oute therof as sone as ye may and come 
home amonges your frends and tennaunts, and that shold be 
to hem the grettyst confort that thay myzt have and the 
contrary to your enmys. 

It ys sayd here that the Duck of Suffolk shall com to 
Coshay in haste and logge ther for a season ; I fyle well by 
your tenaunts that yf ye were peaseabyly possessyd and your 
cort holden in peaseabyll wyse, and that they myzt be in pease 

1 [From Paston Mss.] This letter, in which it is anticipated that the Duke of 
Suffolk will obtain possession, first of Drayton, and then of Hellesden, is evidently 
a little later in date than Nos. 578 and 581, and can only be of the year 1465. 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 a yenst the other many, than they wold take accyons a yenste 
JUNE 1 1 hem for such wrongs as have be don to hem, and ells they say 
that they thernot \_dare not] take it uppon hem, for they dwelle 
so ney to the other many that thay knowe well thay shold 
never be in ease yf thay dyde soo whyle that thay dele amongs 
hem. On Thursday last John Doket, the bayly ys son y lawe, 
and Thomas Ponte, with other, erly in the mornyng, an owre 
by fore the sonne rose, com to your fold, and drove away the 
flock at Drayton, both Colyet and other, in to Coshay fee, or 
ever that the shipherd myght have knowlych therof and then 
he fowlyd one and desyryd to have hem a yen, and thay wold 
not suffer hym to have them no more but the Colyet and ther 
were c. and j. of yours and tho had thay forth with hem to 
Coshay, and the same day we had a replevyn for the cc. shype 
and replevyn for the hors that wer taken at Haylesdon, and 
how that thay were obbeyd Ric. Calle shall enforme you, and 
of other maters also, the whych I may not wryte to you of at 
thys tyme. 

Item, I have spoke with [John] Strange of the mater that 
ye wrote to me of, and in gode feyth P fynd hym, as me 
symyth, ryght well disposyd to you wards ; and he hath, 
acordyng to your desyre, spoken with Yelverton yesterday to 
fyle his dysposicion in that mater, and Yelverton, as it symyth 
by hym, roght not gretely thogh the mater brake, so that he 
myght have any resonabell colour to breke, he ys so callyd 
uppon by Wayte and other of the Duck of Suffolk ys counsell 
that he ote \wof\ not where to hold hym, and he ys put in so gret 
confort, as I am cnformyd, to receve money for the lond, and 
that temptyth hym ryght sore ; for with money he wold fayn 
be in handelyng, as ye know he hath nede therof. He told 
John Straunge that it ys informyd hym that ye have up an 
enquest to depreve ther wytnesse and ther with ys he sore 

movyd that yf any thyngs be don 

in temporall maters other in spyryt[uall] 

maters tochyng executors or feoffeys or wyttnes tyll the day of 

trety be passyd, he wyll not abyde no trety 

therin, but do as thynkyth best 

* The MS. has ' in ' instead of ' I,' evidently by mistake. 
148 



EDWARD IV 

for to do therein. 1 told John Straunge that I kn[ew] . . 1465 
.... . thogh it were soo that shold passe any such June i i 

enquest it shol n . of them 

in provyng of her trothys, the whych shold be no hurt . 

for John Straunge desyryd me that I shuld 

send to you in al haste that any 

such folks that thay shold not doo in the mater till the day of 

may have knowlych howe he and 

other wold doo in such maters as sh 

he wold be loth that he shold have any colour to breke for any 

thyng and Yelverton sayth it shall 

not breke thorf his defaute yf ye wyll n[ot] 

. be ryght glad to have your gode wyll and to goo thorgh 

in all maner mate[rs] eschewyng of 

wastfull expens of the dede ys godes and that the godes myzt 
be dyspendyd to the welle of the dede. Straunge desyryd to 
knowe what appoyntements he desyryth to have in the trety, 
and he sayd he wold not let that be understond tyll the tyme 
of trety cam. Me symyth, save your beter avyse, it were wel 
do that thay that be com up for you myzt be kypt in som 
secryte place and not do [naught done T\ in the mater tyll the 
tyme of the trety were passyd. The cost there of shall not be 
grete to that it myzt hurte yi the trety were broken by that 
meane and then ye may have hem nyer ; and yi ye thynk it be 
to doo ye may have hem to go to ther mater after the seyd 
tyme, for of ij. hurtes the grettyst ys best to be eschewyd. 

Item, as for youre houshold at Caster, savyng your beter 
avyse, me thynkyth that v. or vj. of your folkes, such as ye 
wyll assyngne, were [enough to.'']-^ kype the place, and they for 
to go to bord with the prustes, and ye not to kype no houshold 
ther yet ; and that ye shall fynd more profettabyll than for to 
doo as we do nogh ; for ther expens, as I understond, have not 
be moch the lesse by fore Wytsontyde than it shold be thogh 
I had be at home by cause of resortyng of pepell theder ; and 
yf the houshold were broke thay myzt have a gode excuse in 
that, whosome ever come. Ric. Call shall enforme you of 
thys maters, and mo other, more playnly than I may do wryte 

* Paper decayed. 

149 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 at thys tyme. It is necessary that possessyon be kypt hyre 
JUNE II yett tyll ye be more ferther forth in other maters. The 
Blessyd Trynyte have you [in] Hys kypyng, and send you 
gode spyde in all your maters, and send you grace to have 
a gode conclusyon in hem in haste. Wryten on the Tewysday 
nex before Corpus Christi. 

By your faynt houswyff at thys tyme, 
M. P. 



586 

JOHN PASTON THE YOUNGEST TO HIS FATHERS 

JUNE 1 5 I *% YTH reverent and worchepfull fadyr, I recomand me on 
r^ to yow, beschyng yow lowly of your blyssyng. Plesit 
yow to have knowlage how that I have be in Sowthe- 
folk for syche materys as my cosyn Dawbeney took my modyr 
a byll of, towchyng the materys be twyx yow and Jenney. 
And of all the jentylmen that ye wold my modyr schold 
send to for thys mater ther ar no more at home bot John 
Alyngton ; and I schewyd hym the byll of the namys of the 
Inqwest and knew no more of hem all bot thes, John Depden, 
Thomas Wodborne, John Donemowe, Herry Chesten, and 
Adam Wrene, And to all them Alyngton sent a man of hys 
for to fele hem how they wer dysposyd. Thys was the answer 
of John Depden and Thomas Wodborne, they sayd the last 
tyme they wer at London iche of ther costys stood hem on 
xj., and they seyd they wold no mor come at London bot if ^ 
they knew who schod pay for ther costis ; but me thowt by 
Alyngtonys man that they wold have had a brybe of yow be 
syd the paying for ther costys for to have bedyn at home, 
for they have non othyr levyng but brybys. As for John 
Donemow and Herry Chesten, so that ther issuys may be 
payd they wyll not come ther ; nor in trowthe they scholl not 

1 [Add. MS. 34,889, f. 190.] This letter refers to the dispute with Jenney in 
1464-5, and seems to belong to the latter year. 

2 * But if,' the old familiar expression for ' unless,' occurs in this letter with 
peculiar frequency. 

150 



EDWARD IV 

come ther. Wher for Alyngton prayith yow that ther issuys 1465 
may be payid. Adam Wrene was not spoke to, for he is June 15 
Jenneys baly or hys fermour. As for the quest they ar not 
yet somoncd to aper, and but if ^ they be somonyd ther schoU 
non of hem all aper. The most part of the todyr dwell 
a bowt Ippyswyche and they be Debnamys tenauntys and 
Brewsys, and I knowd get no man to spek with hem but if ^ 
I schold have spok with hem my selve ; and my spekyng 
with hem schold rather aperyd \_have impaired^ the mater than 
a mendyd it. And also I hyid me the faster home a geyn, for 
I lay at my cosyn Lovedays on Corpus Christi Day at nyth ; 
and he told me that the Duches of Sofokys consell wold entre 
in to Calcot Hall, and they wold kep it tyll the Duches knew 
who schold be her tenaunt, owthyr ye or Debnam. Thus told 
one of the men of the seyd cowncell to Loveday ; whyche man 
schold ryd thedyr with hem. And thys schold be do as to 
morow at aftyr non ; bot I trow they wole but tak a distres 
for the servys of the maner, whych is dwe ; but I have sent 
word to Rysyng and to the tenauntis that they schold dryve a 
wey ther catell. And as for the maner, my brodyr and I 
schoU kcpe it so that they schall not entyr as that daye, by the 
grase of God, nor aftyr nowthyr and [i.e. if] we may knowe 
of it, but if ^ ye send us othyr wys word. As for the namys 
that ye wold have for to pase upon the mater betwyx yow and 
Hogan, I spok to Alyngton and Loveday therof, and Love- 
day seyd he knew non that wold pas up on ony inquest for 
hym, for he medylyd with no syche men ; and Alyngton seyd 
that he kowd assyne me none men for serteyn, not tyll he had 
spok with some, whyche he seyd wold aske gret leyser, for he 
knew bot fewe in Sofolk ; if it had be in Cambrygge schyre he 
kowd have get you j now. My modyr spak with old Banyard 
of Sibton Abbey for the same mater, and he knew none that 
wold pase upon the mater at his desyer, but he asygnyd dyvers 
men that love not Jeney, whyche he kowd thynk wold pase 
upon it at yowr desyer if ye spok with hem your selve ; or at 
the lest iche of hem kowd get yow ij. or iij. men that wold 
sey as they wold in cas ye spok with hem your selve, whoys 

* See footnote z on preceding page. 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 namys I send you in a byll by Loveday. Item, as for the 
JUNE 1 5 gape at Nakton Rychard Calle seyth that it was a thorn busche 
was leyd in with owt a stake betwyx ij. thornys that grew ; and 
as for Jeneys netes, ther was not one lost her calfe that I can 
inquer of. And I pray God farther yow in all youyr materys 
to Hys plesans and to youer hertys desyir. Wretyn in hast at 
Hallysworthe the Saterday next aftyr Trinite Sonday. 

My cosyn Hevenyngham is at London, and he kowd 
asygne you men that wold say as he wold mor than Syr John 
Wyngfeld, Alyngton, and all. — Your sone and lowly servant, 

John Paston the Yongest. 

587 

RICHARD CALLE TO SIR JOHN PASTON ' 

To my ryght reverent and worschippfull master. 
Sir John Paston, Knyght. 

JUNE 15 Tr\LESITH it your gode masterschip to wete that as for the 
W^^ examynacion of Master Robert Popy, his examinacion 
was wreten in a longe bille of parchemyn accordyng to 
the deposicion in the Spirituall Coorte. And Master Robert 
come into the Chauncery, and was sworne that all that was 
wreten in the seide bille was trewe, and so delyverd the same 
bille to the Mastre of the RoUes ; and he bare it forthe with 
hym in his hande, for it was delyverd hym at the risyng of the 
Coorte. Tounesende was by and I bothe, &c. And as for 
delyveryng of money to Dawbeney, I do that I may do, and 
more thenne I may weele doo, for I have put my selfe in gret 
daunger for that I have borwyd, &c. Almyghty God spede 
you in all your maters, &c. Wreten the Saterday next after 
Corpus Christi Daye. Your servaunt R. C. 

^ [From Paston Mss., B.M.] This letter seems to have reference to the deposi- 
tions touching Sir John FastolPs will in the suit brought by Sir William Yelverton 
and William Worcester against John Paston and Thomas Howes. Robert Popy 
seems to have been examined in the spring of 1464. {see No. 565) ; but the suit was 
still going on in 14.65, and in a letter of Margaret Paston's, of the 24th June following, 
Richard Calle is mentioned as having recently left her and gone to her husband in 



London. 



152 



EDWARD IV 

588 

JOHN RYSYNG TO JOHN PASTON 1 

Onto my ryght reverent and worchipfull maister, John Paston, 
Esquyer, be this letter delyvered. 

RYGHT reverent and worchipfull sir, I recomende me 1465 
onto your good maisterchip in the moste lowly wise june 18 
that I can or may, letyng your masterchippe under- 
stonde howe that John Smyth, of Freton, and John Hopton, 
of Freton, and I were attached and led onto Gippeswich, and 
there putte into the Kynges pryson by cawse of the fyn which 
was sessed upon the forsaid John Smyth, John Hopton, and 
me, as your maisterchippe knowith well. And as for John 
Smyth and John Hopton, they had labored the meanes onto 
Master Jenney, that they were delyvered owt of pryson or than 
the massenger come ageyn to theym which they sent onto yow ; 
and I remayne stille in pryson, and I can not knowe but that 
they labour the meanes to make me to paye the money for 
theym. And so I can not se non other meane but that I shall 
ly stille in pryson, and been ondo for ever withoute your good 
masterchippe shewed to me at this tyme ; for as I am enformed 
that Jenney hath promysed theym that I shall paye the fyne 
for theym, and also alle the costes that haith be spent ther upon, 
and shall be spent, for thei say that I am sufficient to bere the 
hole daunger. And my keper yafe me licence to goon home, 
and thei had hevyed the peple that dwelle ther, and that gretly, 
and said playnly how that ye myght not beere the dawnger a 
geyns Jenney for your self ; therfor the seiden that ye myght 
not helpe them owt of dawnger when thatte ye myght not 
helpe your self. Wherfor I pray your masterchippe to lete me 
have word in as hasty tyme as ye may, to knowe whether that 
I shall abyde her stylle or not, and if I myght do yow any 

1 [From Paston mss., B.M.] The imprisonment of John Rysing is referred to in 
Margaret Paston's letter of the 27th May 1465 (No. 584), and in another of the 24th 
June following (No. 590). There can be no doubt this letter is of the same year. 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 good at London, I pray your mastershippe that ye will sendc 
JUNE 18 for me, and I will come up to yow. And if ther be non other 
remedy but that the money most nedys be paid, I pray your 
masterchippe that ye will make such purveyaunce therfor that 
it may be to myn delyveraunce at the reverence of God, and 
in the weye of charite as myn hole truste is in your master- 
chippe, for I can not seke to no man, nor will not but only to 
yow. Wherfor I pray yow that ye will tenderly understond 
this letter, as I may pray for yow onto God, who have yow in 
His kepyng. Wretyn at Gippeswich the xviij. day of June. 

These ar the names of theym that have parte of my catell, 
Gilbert NicoU, of Sprowton, William Merssh and John Woode 
of Gippeswich, bocher. 

By your man and feithfuU servant, 

John Rysyng. 

589 

ABSTRACT ^ 

JUNE Examinations taken at the house of the treasurer of St. Paul's Cathedral, 

London, of the following witnesses in the matter Sir John FastolPs will, viz. : 
— of Thomas Torald and Robert Lawe on the i8th ; of William Waterman on 
the 19th ; of John Osbern and John Heydon on the 20th ; of William Pykeryng, 
John Symmys and John Shawe on the 21st days of June 1465. 



MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON 2 

To my ryght wyrshipfull husbana^ John Pastotty 
be thys delyveryd in hast. 

JUNE 24 I '\ YGHT wyrshypfull hosbond, I recomaund me to you. 

r^ Please it you to wyte that the same Wensday that Ric. 

Call departyd hens I send Ric. Charlys to speke with 

the undershryf, requyryng hym that he shold serve the replevyn 

1 [From MS. Phillipps, 9309.] 

' [From Fasten mss., B.M.] As this letter refers to Paston's disputes with the 
Duke of Suffolk and his officers, the date must be 1465. 



EDWARD IV 

for the shype and hors that were take, &c. ; and the shryf sayd 14^ 5 
playnly that he wol not, nor derst not serve it, not thogh I J^**^ 24 
wold yeve hym xx It. to serve it. And Ric. Charlys axhyd the 
cause why, and he sayd, for he wold not have to doo with that 
felshyp, and so it ys yet unservyd. I supyose that Ric. Calle 
hath told you what re veil ther was by the Bayllyf of Coshay 
and his felaw uppon your men that shold have servyd the 
replevyn. 

Item, the same Wensday that Ric. Call rode from hens the 
were indytyd v. of men by the enquest of Fourhoo hunder, as 
Crome can enforme you, and on Fryday last paste John Paston, 
the yonger, Wykes and Thomas Honewerth were endytyd at 
Dyram, by what menys the berour herof Crome shall [en]forme 
you. I send theder Ric. Charlys, John Seve, and iij. or iiij. 
other gode felows, for to have don other folks as gode atorne ; 
but it wold not be, for the Juge ys soo parcyall with the other 
party that I trowe ther shalbe sped no maters before hym for 
you, nor for non of yours tyl it be otherwyse by twene you 
than it ys. Crome shall tell you of hys demenyng at the last 
sessyons at Dyrham. I send you a copy of both the endyte- 
ments. Your son John Paston the yonger, I hope shal be with 
you thys wyke and enforme you of mo thyngys, and howe myn 
hors and hys sadell and harnys ys prysoner at Coshaye Halle 
and have ben ever syn Wensday last. 

Item, I recevyd a letter from you on Satorday last, whych 
was wryten on Monday next before and I have sent to Sir 
Thomas Howys the same day for such maters as ye wrote to 
me of, and he sent me word that Wyllyam Worceter had a 
boke of remembraunce of recaytys that hath be recevyd by Sir 
John Fastolf or any of hys sythen the iiij.'^' yere Kyng Harry, 
both of hys owyn lyflode or of any other mannys that he had to 
doo wyth all. He sayd, yf ye wold send to Wyll. Worceter to 
loke therfore he sayd he wyst well he wold lete you have 
knowlych yf any such thyng may be founde, and also he sayd 
that he wold send to the seyd Wyll. to serche therfore, and as 
for such bokys as he hath hyre at hom he wol doo loke yi any 
remembraunce canne be founde therof, and ye shall have know- 
lych ther of, as he hath promysyd, by Satourday next comyng. 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 And as for the woman that made the clayme that ye wrote of 
JUNE 24 he ys wellwyllyd that she shold be seyn to in the way of almys. 
And as I here say, it symyth by hym that in any thyng that he 
canne doo tochyng the savacyon of the dedys gode/ other in 
lyflode, other in other godys, he sayth that he wyll doo. I 
canne not have no knowlych that Haydon mellyth in the mater 
of Drayton ; yf he do oght therin, he doyth it closely, as he ys 
wont to doo, and wayshyth hys hondys ther of as Pylate dyde. 
It shalnot be long to or that I send to yow ; of such tythynges 
as we have I shall lete you have knowlych ther of. I fynd 
Crome ryght welwyllyng to you in such thyngys as lyth in 
hym for to do. I pray you lete hym be thankynd therfor, and 
that shall cause hym to be the beter wylled ; he hath not be 
rewardyd as yet but by Ric. Call, as he canne tell you. The 
Blyssyd Trynyte have you in His kepyng and send you gode 
spyde in all your maters. Wryten in hast on Mydsomer day. 
As for Rysyng, but yf [^unless"] ye purvey for hym he canne 
no helpe have at home. 

By yours, M. P. 



[JOHN PASTON] TO MARGARET PASTON 
AND OTHERS 2 

'To my cosyn Margret Taston and to John 
Dawbeney and Richard Calk. 

JUNE 27 ^ RECOMANDE me to yow, and have received a letter 
from yow and a nother for Richard Calle be John 
Colman, and . . be Roos ; and I have received of 

Colman the plate and mony acording Richard Callis letteris. 

Item, I con yow thonk ye send me word the prise of corn. 



I 



^ i.e.i the dead man's goods. 

2 [Add. MS. 34,889, f. 9.] This letter, which is in the handwriting of John 
Paston, refers to the proceedings of the Duke of SufFoJIc to enforce his claim to Dray- 
ton and Hellesden, and was clearly written in the summer of 1465 on Thursday before 
St. Peter's Day, i.e. before the feast of SS. Peter and Paul (29th June). 

ij6 



EDWARD IV 

Item, as for yowr sone,^ I lete yow wete I wold he dede wel, 1465 
but I understand in hym no disposicion of policy, ne of gover- J^ne 27 
nans as man of the werle owt to do, but only levith and ever 
hath as man disolut with owt any provision, ne that he besiith 
hym nothinge to understand swhech materis as a man of lyve- 
lode must nedis understond ; ne I understond nothing of what 
disposicion he porposith to be, but only I kan thynk he wold 
dwell ayeyn in yowr hows and myn, and ther ete and drinke 
and slepe.^ Therfor I lete yow wete, I wold know hym or he 
know myn entent, and how wel he hath ocupiid his tym now 
he hath had leyser. Every pore -man that hath browt up his 
chylder to the age of xij. yer waytyth than to be holp and 
profited be hes chylder, and every gentilman that hath discrecion 
waytith that his ken and servantis that levith be hym and at 
his coste shuld help hym forth ward. As for yowr sone, ye 
knowe well he never stode yow ne me in profite, ese or help, 
to valew of on grote, savyng at Calkot Hall whane [he ^] and 
hes brothir keptid on day ayeyns Debenham, and yet was it at 
iii. [times ^] the coste that that ever Debenham sones put hym 
to. For be her police [by their policy] they kepe Cotton at my 
cost and with the ^ profitis of the same. Wherfor geff hem no 
favor tyle ye feel what he is and will be. 

Item, Calle sendith me word that Master Phylip ^ hat entrid 
in Drayton in my Lord of Suffolk's name, and hat odir purpose 
to entre in Heylisdon, and he askith my avyse ; whech is 
that ye confort my tenantis and help hem til I com hom, 
and lete hem wet I shall not lese it, and that the Dowk of 
Suffolk that last diid wold have bouth it of Fastolff, and, for 
he mygth not have it so, he claymyd the maner, seying it was 
on Polis [one Pole's'], and, for his name was Poole, he claymed 
to be eyr. He was ansueryed that he com nothing of that 
stok, and how somever ^ wer kyn to the Polis that owth ^ it it 

I Sir John Paston. 

* A later hand has here written in the margin : * Hie postea tuit Sir John Paston 
senior, miles.' But the postea is wrong. 

3 These words omitted in MS. * the repeated in ms. 

6 Philip Lipgate, the Dulce of Suffolk's bailiff. 

* ' How somever ' for * whosomever,' or ' whoever.' 

7 ' Owth ' for • ought,' i.e. owned. 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 hurt not, for it was lawfully bowth and sold, and he never 
JUNE 27 kleymid it after. Item, I am in purpose to tak assise ageynse 
hem at this tyme, and elles I wold have sent thedir streyt be a 
letter of attorney to entre in my name ; never the les ye be 
a gentilwoman, and it is worshep for you to confort yowr 
tennauntis ; wherfor I wold ye myth ryd to Heylisdon and 
Drayton and Sparham, and tari at Drayton and speke with 
hem, and byd hem hold with ther old master til I com, and 
that ye have sent me word but late, wherfore ye may have 
none answer yet, and informe hem as I ha (sic) wrete to ye 
within ; and sey oupinly it is a shame that any man shuld set 
anny lord on so ontrwe a mater, and speciall a preste ; and 
lete hem wete, as sone as I am com hom I shall see hem. 
Item, that as for distreyn for rent of ferm, thow the Dewk had 
tytill, as he hath not, he may non ask til the next rent day 
after his entre, that is Michelmes, and seye that ye will be paiid 
everi peni and asken hem it. And make mech of men of 
Cossey, becawse they wer owr welwillers when we wer neyboris 
ther ; and lete hem wete that the begyningis of shech mater 
had never worchip nor profite of me, ne shall, and desyr god 
will of yowr neyboris, &c., and suyn all othir menes that ye 
kan to plese the pepill. And lete yowr tenaunts wete that the 
Dewke may never be lawe compel hem to torn from me ; and 
do all so well as ye can, and if any entyr be made in Heylisdon 
shufF him owt and set sum man to kepe the place, if ned be, 
not withstandyng it longith not to the manere. Item, I wold 
fayn have sum man to be bayle of Heylisdon and Drayton, &c., 
that myth go amongis the tenauntis. And elles I wold han 
Richard Chyllins (?) to go amond \_q. among?] hem tyl I com 
hom and also Richard Calle whan home. Item, he sent me 
word that the tenauntis of Drayton wold not come to the 
Dewkis cort and that they will be stefast to me and kepe hem 
straunge and froward from the Dewkis cowncell ; all this 
mater shall turne to a jape and not hurt hem ; ner, and if ye be 
wavering it shall hurt hem. Item, I let yow wete this is do to 
cause me to loose my labor ayens hym for Dedham, which I wil 
not for it. God kepe yow. Wret the Thursday befor Sent 
Petres day. 

158 



EDWARD IV 

Item, tel Richard Calle to have wittenses redy. I wol spede 1465 
this mater spirituall befor Estern. J"^^ ^7 

592 

MARGARET PASTON TO SIR JOHN PASTON^ 

IGRETE yow wele, letyng yow wetyn that I am informyd july6 (?) 
for certeyn the Due of Suffolk reysyth grete pepyl bothe 
in Norffolk and Suffolk to comyn doune with hym to 
putte us to a rebeuc and thei may ; querfor I wold in ony wyse 
that ze make yow as strong as ze can wyth inne \_in the] place, 
for I and other moo suppose that zyfF they fynd zow not here 
they wyl seke yow there ze arn. I wold John Paston the 
zonger schuld ryde azyn to my Lady of NorfFolk and be wyth 
hyr stylle tyl we hafF other tydyngs, and ther may he do sum 
good, after that he heryth tydyngs, in goyng forth to hys 
fadyr or in to sum other place quere we may hafe remedy ; for 
yt [is] told me that there ar come to Cossay onward more than 
ij. hundred, and ther ys comyng, as yt ys seyd, more than a 
thowsand. I wold that ze sende hyder Lytyl John that I 
mygth sende hym abowte on myn errandys. Sende me worde 
how that ze doo by summe of the tenantes that be not 
knowyn. 

Item, byd Richard Calle send me word in a bylle, of how 
many materys that he hath sent myn husbond an answere of, 
the quych he sendt hom in divers letters for to be sped here 
and of the fermours of Tychwelle. 

Item, zyf Sir Jamys Gloys may come to Norwych to Adam 
Taylours how I wold he come on Munday bytymys, and I 
schal sende to hym thyder. God kepe yow alle. Wretyn in 
hast on Satyrday. By your Modyr. 

1 [From Paston Mss., B.M.] This letter is not addressed on the back, nor is the 
handwriting that of Margaret Paston, but from the subscription it would appear to 
have been written by her to one of her sons ; and as John Paston the younger is 
mentioned in the body of the letter, the person addressed was evidently his elder 
brother. The letter seems to have been written shortly before the Duke of Suffolk's 
attempt on Hellesden mentioned in the next No., probably on the Saturday pre- 
ceding it. 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 Item, yt ys told me that zong Heydon reysyth mych pepyl 

july6(?) in the sokyn and in other place. 

Item, I wold ze schuld do Ry chard Calle hye hym of 
makeng of alle the acountes and, zyf nede, lete hym gete help 
and kepe Thomas Hunnworth stille wyth yow, and be war of 
of Pykyng [Pickering ?'] 

593 

RICHARD CALLE TO JOHN PASTON 1 

To my mastre^ John Pas ton, in hast, 

JULY 10 ipvLESITH it youre maysterschip to witte of the rwle and 
1"'^ disposicion of the Master Philip and the Balyf of 
Cossey, with others of my Lorde of SufFolkes men. 
On Monday last past, at aftrenoon, [they] wer at Heylesdon, 
with the nombre of CCC. men, for to have entred, notwith- 
standyng they seyde they come not for to entre; but withoute 
dought, and they had been strong inough for us, they wolde 
have entred, and that we undrestonde nough, but we knowyng 
of ther comyng and purveyed so for hem, that we wer strong 
j nough. We had Ix. men withinne the place, and gonnes, 
and suche ordynauns, so that if they had satte uppon us, they 
had be distroyed. And ther my mastres was withine, and my 
mastre. Sir John, and hathe gate hym as grete worschip for 
that day as any gentleman myght doo, and so is it reported 
of the partye and in all Norwiche. And my Lorde of Nor- 
wiche sent theder Master John Salett and Master John Bulle- 
man for to trete, and so they ded ; and the Due men seide 
they had a warant for to attache John Dawbeney, Wyks, 
Calle, Hunewrthe, and Bliclyng and other, weche they wuld 
have ; and my master. Sir John, answerd them, and seide that 
they were not withine, and though we had ben, they shuld not 
have had hem ; and so they desired oon of our men. And so 

1 [From Fenn, iv. 212.] From what has been already said about the Duke of 
Suffolk's claim to the manor of Hellesden, it is clear that this letter is of the year 
1465. Later it cannot be, as John Paston was dead before July 1466. 

160 



EDWARD IV 

Naunton stede by my mastres and haxed hem whom they wold 1465 
have, and seyde if they wold have hem he wold go with hem, July 10 
and so he ded. And on the next day they caryed hym forthe 
to my Lord of Suffolk to Claxton, through Norwich ; and ther 
we had founde a remedy for hym for to heve lette hym ; and 
he wold not, but nedys go forthe with hem ; but like a jentel- 
man he was entreated amongs hem. And Harleston desyred 
at Heylesdon to speke with my mastre, Sir John, and so he 
ded, and seyde to hym it were ryght weele don that he rode 
to my Lord of Suffolk and desired hym in any wice that he 
schulde do so, and seyde that it was hes dwte so for to do, in as- 
moche as my Lorde was come to contre, and that he wolde ryde 
with hym, and brynge hym to my Lorde ; and he answerd and 
seide to hym, whan that he undrestode that my Lord were hes 
fathers goode Lord and hes, that thanne he wolde se hes Lord- 
ship, and [ell]es he had non aronde to hym ; and so they de- 
parted. And thanne appoyntement was taken that they shuU 
sende home ther men, and we schuld send home oure. And 
nough my Lord of SufFolks men come from Claxton to Nor- 
wich, and face us and fray uppon us, this dayly. Ther fylle 
uppon me befor Sevayne dore xij. of hes men, viij. of them 
in barneys, and ther they wold have myscheved me and the 
Scheryf letted hem and other, and they make ther awaunte 
were that 1 may be goten I schul dye ; and so they lye in a 
wayte for to myscheve me, Dawbeney, and Wyks; and so 1 
dare not ryde out alone withoute a man with me. And I 
undrestonde ther is comyn an Heyre Determyner ^ to enquer 
of all ryots, and my Lord of Suffolk and Yelverton be Comys- 
cioners ; and so they sey as money of us as can be taken shal 
be endyted and hanged forth with ; and so the people here are 
dysmayed with ther rwle. Wherfore that it like you to sende 
werd how my mastres schal do at Heylesdon, and we in all 
other maters; and wether ye wol that we feche a yene the 
flok of Heylesdon, for they are nough dreven to Causton, and 
there go they on the heyth ; and my Lord of Suffolk wolbe at 
Drayton on Lames Daye, and kepe the Coort ther; wherefor 
ye must seke an remedy for it, or ell[es] it woU not do weele. 

^ An Oyer and Terminer, or Special Commission. 
VOL. IV. L 161 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 If my Lord of Norffolk wold come, he schulde make all 

JULY 10 wecle, for they feere hym above all thyngs, for it is noyced 

here that my Lord of Norffolk hathe taken partye in thes 

mater, and all the cuntre is cladde of it, seyng that if he come 

they wooll hooly go with hym. 

And me senethe it were wele don to meve my Lord in it, 
though ye schuld geve hym the profyghts of Heylesdon and 
Drayton for the kepyng, and som money be side ; for ye must 
seke som other remedy than ye do, or ell[es] in my conseyte 
it schull go to the Divell, and be distroyed, and that in ryght 
schort tyme. And therfore at the reverence of God take som 
appoyntement with Master Yelverton, suche as ye thynke 
schuld most hurt. 

I beseche you to pardon me of my writyng, for I have 
pitte to se the trybulacion that my mastres hathe here, and all 
your frends, &c. 

Almyghty Jesu preserve and kepe you. Wreten the 
Wednesday next Seint Thomas Daye. 

Your pore servaunt and bedman, 

Ric. Calle. 



594 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON 1 

jTo my right worschipfull hushond^ John Paston, in hast. 

JULY 12 "T^ YGHT worshypful husbond, I recomaund me to yow, 
r^ preyeng you hertyly that ye wyl seke a meen that 
yowr servauntys may be in pees, for they be dayly in 
fer of ther lyvys. The Duke Suffolks men thretyn dayly 
Dawbeney, Wykys, and Richard Calle, that wher so ever they 
may gete them they schold dye ; and aifrayes have ben made 
on Rychard Calle this weke, so that he was in gret jupperte 
at Norwych among them ; and gret affrayes have ben made 
uppon me and my felashep her on Monday last passyd, of 

^ [From Fenn, iv. 218.] It is needless to point out that this letter must have 
been written in the same year as the last. 

162 



EDWARD IV 

whych Rychard Calle telly th me that he hath sent yow word 146 5 
of in wryghtyng, mor pleynly than I may doo at thys tyme, July 12 
but I shal informe yow mor pleynly heraftyr. 

I suppose ther shal be gret labor ageyn yow and yowr 
servaunts at the Assysis and Cescions her ; wherfor me 
semyth, savyng your better advyce, it wer wele do that ye 
shold speke with the Justicys or they com her; and yf ye 
wol that 1 compleyn to them or to any other, if Good 
fortune me lyfe and helth, I wol do as ye advyse me to do, 
for in good feyth I have ben symply intretid among them ; 
and what with syknesse, and troble that I have had, I am 
browte ryght lowe and weyke, but to my power I wyl do as I 
can or may in your maters. 

The Duk of Suffolk and both the Duchessys shal com to 
Claxton thys day, as I an informyd, and thys next weke he 
shal be at Cossey ; whether he wol com ferther hyddyr ward 
or not, I wot not yit. It is seyd that he schold com hyddyr, 
and yet hys men seyd her on Monday that he cleymyd no 
tytyl to thys place ; they seyd ther comyng was but to take 
out such ryotus peple as was her within thys place, and suche 
as wer the Kyngys felonys, and indytyd and outlawyd men. 
Neverthe lesse they wold schew no warauntys wherby to take 
non such, thow ther had suche her ; I suppose if they myght 
have com in pesably, they wold have made an other cause of 
ther comyng. 

Whan alle was doo and they scholde departe, Harlyston 
and other desyryd me that I schold com and se myn olde 
Lady, and sewe to my Lorde, and if any thyng wer amysse 
it schold be amendyd. I said if 1 scholde sewe for any 
remedy e, that I scholde sewe ferther, and lete the Kynge 
and alle the Lordys of thys lond to have knowlech what 
hathe be don to us, if so wer that the Deuk wolde meynten 
that hathe be don to us by hys servauntys, if ye wolde geve 
me leve. 

I pray yow sende me worde if ye wyl that I make any 
compleynt to the Duke or the Duchesse ; for as it is tolde 
me, they know not the pleynesse that hathe ben don in such 
thyngys as hathe ben don in her [their] namys. 

163 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

146 c i schold wryght muche mor to yow but for lak of leyser. 

JULY 12 I comaundyd my Mayster Tom thys day to have com 
ageyn by me from Norwych, when he had spokyn with 
Rychard Calle, but he cam not. I wolde he wer qwyte of 
hys indytments, so that he wer qwyte of yowr servyce ; for 
by my trowthe, I holde the place the mor ongracyous that he 
is in, for hys dysposycion in dyverce thyngys, the whych ye 
schal be informed of her after. 

The Trynyte have yow in kepyng. Wretyn the Fryday 
next after Seynt Thomas. 

By yowr, M. P. 



595 

JOHN PASTON TO MARGARET PASTON 1 

'To my cosytty Margaret Paston. 



I 



juLT 13 IP RECUMMAND me to yow, I thank of yow of yowr 
labour and besynes with the unruly felechep that cam 
befor yow on Monday last past, wherof I herd report 
be John Hobbis. And in god feyth ye aquyt yow rygth wel 
and discretly and hertyly to yowr wurchep and myn, and to 
the shame of your adversarijs, and I am wel content that ye 
avowid that ye kept possession at Drayton and so wold doo. 
Wherfor I pray yow, make yowr word god if ye may, and at 
the lest, let myn adversarijs not have it in pees if ye may. 
Jon Hobbys tellith me that ye be seekly, whech me lekith not 
to here ; praying yow hartyly that ye take what may do yowr 
eese and spar not, and in any wyse take no thowth no to 
moch labor for thes maters, ne set it not so to yowr hert that 
ye fare the wers for it. And as for the mater, so they over- 
come yow not with fors ne hosting, I shall have the maner 
sewrlyer to me and myn, than the Dewk shall have Cossey, 
dowt ye not. And in cas I come not home within thre wekis, 

* [From Paston mss., B.M.] As this letter is dated on a Saturday, and refers to 
the Duke of SufFolk's attempt on Hellesden as having been made on the Monday 
preceding, there can be no difficulty in fixing the precise date, both of day and year. 
164 



EDWARD IV 

I pray you com to me, and Wykes hath promisid to kepe the 1465 
plase in .yowr absens. Nevertheles whan ye come set it in J"'-"*' ^3 
seche rewle as ye seme best and most suer, bothe for Castre 
and Heyhsdon if the werr hold. In cas ye have pees send me 
word. 

As for that it is desyrid 1 shuld show my tytill and evydens 
to the Dewk, me thynkyth he had evyll cowncell to entre in 
opon me, trusting I shuld shew hym evydens. And [//] ye 
seme it may do yow god or eese, lete my Lord of Norwich 
wet that the maner of Drayton was a marchants of London 
callid Jon Heylisdon longe er any of the Pol is that the seyd 
Dewk comyth of wer borne to any lond in Norfolk or Suffolk ; 
and if they wer at that tyme born to no lond, how may the 
seyd Dewk klaym Drayton be that pedegre ? As for the 
seyd John Heylisdon, he was a por man born, and from hym 
the seyd maner dessended to Alice his dowtyr, hos estat I have, 
and I soppose the seyd Dewk comyth not of hem. 

Item, as for the pedegre of the seyd Dewk, he is sone to 
William Pool, Dewk of Suffolk, sone to Mychell Pool, Erl of 
Suffolk, sone to Mychel Pool, the furst Erl of Suffolk of the 
Polis, mad be King Richard seth my fader was born ; and the 
seyd furst Mychell was sone to on WilHam Pool of Hull, 
whech was a wurchepfuU man grow be fortwne of the werld. 
And he was furst a marchant, and after a knygth, and after 
he was mad baneret ; and if any of thees hadde the maner of 
Drayton I will los Qli. so that any persone for the Dewk will 
be bond in as moch to prove the contrary ; and I wot weel 
the seyd Dewkis Cowncell wil not claym the seyd maner be 
the tytill of the fader of the seyd William Pool. And what 
the fader of the seyd William was, as be the pedegre mad in 
the seyd last Dewkis fadirs daijs I know rygt weell ; wherof 
1 informyd Herry Boteler to tell my old Lady of Suffolk, 
becawse he is of her cowncell ; and more will I not tell in thes 
mater, but if [unless] I be desyrid or compellid. 

Item, let my Lord of Norwich wete that it is not profitabe 
ner the comen well of gentilmen that any jentilman shuld be 
compellid be an entre of a lord to shew his evidens or tytill 
to his lond. ner I wil not begine that example ne thralldam of 

165 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 gentilmen ner of other ; it is god a lord take sad cowncell, or 
JULY 13 j^g begyne any sech mater. 

And as for the Pools that owth Drayton, if ther wer C. of 
hem levyng, as ther is non, yet have they no tytill to the seyd 
maner. God kepe yow. Wret the Satirday, &c. 

Yowr JoN Paston. 

I pray yow be as mery with yowr felachep as ye kan. 

Item, I send hom writt and prase ns for yowr ser vaunts and 
myn. 

Item, I may sell you woU for xld. the ston, redi mony, as 
Arblaster can tell yow, and malt for iiijj. the quarter at days 
xxj. for XX. delivered of Yermouth mesur. If ye fayle mony 
ye most make it of yowr wole or malt. 

I send you hom writts of replevin for the shep and the 
horses that wer take, and avise yow lete the writtis be delivered 
be fore my Lord of Norwich, and god rekord ; and if ye may 
make men with fors to take the catell agey[n] be waran of 
replevyn, spar not rather than fayle. 

On the back of the letter is the following memorandum in a different 
hand : — 

Md. there lefte behynde of Heylesdon folde of my mastre schepe xlj. modreschep. 
Item of lambes xxxiiij. Item of my mastres xij. modreschep. Item of her lambes xij. 



596 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON 1 

[juLY?] I '% IGHT worchepful hosbond, I recommand me to yow, 

r^ and pray yow hertely at the reverence of God that 

ye be of good comfort, and trost veryly be the grase 

of God that ye shall overcome your enemys and your trobelows 

maters ryght welle, yf ye wolle be of good comfort, and not 

take your maters to hevely that ye apeyr not your self, and 

' [From Paston mss., B.M.] Margaret Paston, as will be seen by subsequent 
letters, was in London with her husband in September 1465. This letter seems 
to have been written not long before, when she first entertained the thought of going 
thither. 

166 



EDWARD IV 

thynk veryly that ye be strong inowe for alle your enemys be 146 5 
the grace of God. My moder is your good moder, and takyth [ju^y ?] 
your maters ryght hertely. And zif ye thynnk that I may do 
good in your maters yf I come up to you, after I have know- 
lage of your entent it shall not be longe or I be with you be 
the grace of God. And as for any othyr thyngs of sharge that 
be in this contre, I hope I shall so ordeyn therfore that it shall 
be safe. I have delyveryd your older sonne xx. mark that I 
have received of Ric. Calle, and I kowd no more of hym syn 
ye departyd. [And I send yow another bage of mony that 
was in your square cofyr.^] And I pray God hertely send us 
good tydyngs of yow, and send the victory of your enemys. 
Wretyn in hast on Saterday. Your M. P. 

Item, I take your sonne of your faders oode mony, that 
was in the lytyll trussyng cofyr x. mark, for my broder 
Clement seythe that xx. mark was to lytyll for hym. 



597 

[MARGARET PASTON ?J TO 2 

Cosyn, I recommaunde me to yow, letyng yow wete that I am informid I465(?) 
that the parson of Brandeston is take be yowr sowdiors and led forth with 
hem, and they have ryfelid his godis, and summe of myne husbondes also, 
and of his ballyes, weche were left with the seyd parson to kepe. Wherfore 
I avyse yow, and praye that he maye be lete go agayn, and to have ower godes 
as were take fro hym ; for and yowr sowdioris be of sweche disposicion that 
they wyll take that they may gete, it shall no wurchip be to you, nor profile 
in tyme to come ; and therof wolde I be sory. And if the seyd parson 
be othirwyse disposid thanne he owth to be, I wyll helpe that he shall be 



1 This sentence is struck out. 

2 [From Paston Mss., B.M.] The ms. of this letter seems to be a draft in a hand 
like that of James Gresham. It is anonymous and without address. Even the 
writer is very uncertain. But it may not unlikely be a draft letter from Margaret 
Paston to some neighbour who, while the Duke of Suffolk was laying claim to 
Hellesden and Drayton, was not too mindful of John Paston's rights. Brandeston 
is about eleven miles from Norwich, eight miles beyond Drayton. Thomas Hoop 
was parson of Brandeston from 1448 to 1475. He was presented to the living by 
Sir John Fastolf 

167 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

I465(?) chaysteysid as conciena and lawe requerith. I wolde ye shulde remembre 
that ye have bore blame for sweche thynges before this tyme that hath be 
do othirwise thanne lawe hath requerid. And God have yow in His kepyng. 
Wrete at Norwiche. 



JOHN WYKE TO SIR JOHN PASTON 1 

To my ryght wyrshypfull mayster^ Sir John Paston^ be 
thys letter delyveryd. 

1465 I JLEASE it your maistershyp to wyte, uppon Satourday 
JULY 30 wr^ last, Mayster Wyll. Paston and I werre with my Lord 
the Byshoppe of York, and enformyd hys Lordshyp of 
the entre that was made at Haylesdon in the Duk of Suffolks 
name. And my Lord asked of ous whether the C. marc wer 
payd or not, and we awnswered that it was payd many day a 
goon. And than he sayd, ' I dar swer uppon a boke that the 
Duchesse of Suffolk hath no knowlych therof.' And so he 
comaundyd ous to a wayte uppon hym, for he wold be at 
London a yen uppon Tewysday next ; and soo we have non 
awnswer as yet. 

Item, I have spoken with Mayster Robert Kent for your 
maters, and byddeth that ye shold not dowte therof; and as 
for the neglygens of your wytnes, Mayster Robert sayth it ys 
but a jape, and shall be no hurt. And the copys therof wer 
deliveryd or than I cam horn from Parker ys hands, and that 
causyd me to spake no word to hym therof. 

Item, the Lord Scales sayd at a soper wher as he soped 
within thys iiij. nyztys that he wold ryde home and enter in 
ij. fayre maners in hys contray, and desyred Stanhope that 
shall wed Gernyngham ys suster to ryde with hym. I suppose 
it be to entre in to Caster and Cotton ; wherfor maketh gode 
wache be tyme, for it ys mery to plede in possession, &c. 

* [From Paston Mss., B.M.] The date of this letter is sufl5ciently apparent 
from the reference in the beginning to ' the entry made at Hellesden in the Duke of 
Suffolk's name.' 

168 



EDWARD IV 

Item, I have send you an unce of myvers(?) by the beror 1465 
of thys letter, and thay cost me iiiji. iiij^/. ^^^^ 3° 

Item, your gesseren ^ and gaunteletts shall be send hom by 
the next caryours, for ther be non hyre yete, &c. No more 
to you at thys tyme. The Holy Trynyte have you in Hys 
kypyng. Wryten at London uppon Tewysday next after 
Seynt Anne. 

By youre servaunt, John Wyke. 



599 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON« 

' To my ryght worschipful husband^ John Paston^ 
be this delyverd in hast. 

RIGHT wurchepfull husbond, I recomaund me to you. aug. 7 
Please it you to wete that I sent on Lammesse day* 
to Drayton, Thomas Bonde and Sir James Gloys to 
hold the court in your name, and to clayme your tytiU ; for I 
cowde gete none other body to kepe the court, ner that wuld 
go theder but the seide Thomas Bonde, be cause I suppose thei 
were a ferd of the pepill that shuld be there of the Duke of 
SufFolks parte. The said Thomas and James, as the Duke of 
Suffolks men, that is to sey, Harlesdon, the parson of Salle, 
Mayster Phillip and William Yelverton, the which was sty ward, 
with a Ix. persones or more be estymacion, and the tenauntes 
of the same town, sum of hem havyng rusty pollexis and 
byllys, comyn in to the maner yard to kepe the courte, met 
with them, and told them that thei were comyn to kepe the 
court in your name, and to clayme your titill. Wherfore the 
seid Harlesdon, with ought any mor words or occasion yovyn 
of your men, comytted the seid Thomas Bonde to the kepyng 

* A sleeveless coat of mail. 

' [From Paston mss., B.M.] This is another of the series of letters relating to 
Paston's dispute with the Duke of Suffolk about Drayton and Hellesdon in 1465. 
3 August I. 

169 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 of the new Baly of Drayton, William Dokett, seyng that he 
AUG. 7 shuld go to my lord and do his herand hym self, notwith- 
standyng that Sir James dede the erands to them, and had the 
words ; wherfor thei toke the seid Thomas with ought occasion. 
Thei wuld have mad the seid Thomas to have had the words, 
and the seid James told hem that had hem, because he was the 
more pesibill man, whan afterward thei bade avoyde, and sithen 
led forth Thomas Bonde to Cossey, and bownde his armes be 
hynde hym with whippe cord like a theffe, and shuld have led 
hym forth to the Duke of Suffolk, ner had be that I had spokyn 
with the juges in the morwyn or thei yede to the shirehous and 
enformed hem of such ryottes and assaugthis as thei had mad 
up on me and my men ; the baly of Cossey and all the Duke 
of Suffolks councell beyng ther present, and all the lerned men 
of Norffolk, and William Jenney and my[che] pepill of the 
contre ; the juge callyng the baly of Cossey befor them all, and 
yaffe hym a gret rebuke, comaundyng the shereffe to se what 
pepill thei had gadred at Drayton ; which came after to Heles- 
don to se the pepill ther, with weche [pe]pill he held hym wele 
content ; and fro thens he rode to Drayton to se ther pepill, 
which wer avoyded or he came. And ther he desired to have 
delivered the seid Thorn. Bonde to hym ; and thei excusid 
hem and seid thei had send hym to the Duke of Suffolk. 
Notwithstandyng, afterward thei sent hym to Norwhich to 
hym, desiryng hym that he shuld delivere hym not withought 
he mad a fyne, be cause he trobilled the Kynges lete ; for 
which thei mad 1 .... to juges. But after that I 
understod it, I sent Danyell of Mershlond and Thomas Bonde ^ 
to enforme the juges how the seide Thomas was entreted 
amonges hem, and so he ded. And the juges were gretly 

with the Dukes men, and forwith comaunded 

the sheryf to delyver the seide Bone withoute any fyne 
m[aking], seyng that he out non to make. And in goode 
fcythe I founde the juges ryght gentell and forborable to me 

^ At this point the letter is continued in a different ink upon a new sheet of paper, 
which was formerly stitched to the first sheet. A line which was formerly covered by 
the sewing shows that Margaret Fasten intended at first to have written : ' to the 

justice, and he (^fiue nuords illegible, the paper being cut) thei toke the 

seid Thomas with ought warant, afftre trobillyng of the lete.' 

170 



EDWARD IV 

In my matres, notwithstandyng the Duckes councell had made 1465 
her compleynt to them or I come in ther werst wice, noysyng aug. 7 
us of gret gatheryng of peopell and many riotes thynges don 
be me and your men. And after I enformed the juges of ther 
untrouthe and of ther gidyng, and of our gidyng in like wice. 
And after the juges undrestod the trouthe he gave the baly of 
Cossey befor me and many other a passyng gret rebuke, seyng 
without he amended hes condicion and governaunce, thei wuld 
enforme the Kynge and helpe that he schuld be punyschet. 

And wher as ye avyced me a felaschip to 

kepe the coorte at Drayton with easy cost, it was thought be 
your councell it wer better otherwise, and not to gather no 
people, for it was told me that the Dukes men had to the 
nombre of v. C. men, and your councel avised me to gete a 
felischip to kepe my place at Heylesdon, for it was told me 
that they schuld come and pulle me out of the place, weche 
cauced me to kepe the place the strenger at that tyme. And 
as for kepyng of any coort for you at Drayton, I can not wete 
how it cowde be brought a boute withoute helpe of other but 
if there schuld growe gret inconvenyence of it. And at the 
ass[izes] .... made gret labor to endite your men, 
notwithstandyng it was letted. And as for the writtes of 
replevyn, they were delyverd openly be for the juges to the 
scheryf, and also other writtes wech Jamys Gresham brought ; 
and aftre that Ric. Calle spake with the high scheref for the 
servyng of hem. And so he promysed to serve it and to send 
men of hes owne to serve it ; and so he sent ij. of his men with 
Ric. Lynsted, and with ij. of Scheperdes to Cossey for the 
schepe. And ther they wer answer that Yelverton cleymeth 
the properte, and so wer they answerd in all other places wher 
as any catell was. And so they departed and come to the 
scheryf and enformed hym ; and I undrestande the scheryf 
taketh it for an answere ; notwithstandyng I send hym word 
withoute that Yelverton had ben ther in hes owne persone he 
myte not cleyme the properte, and aviced hym to be ware 
what retorne he made that he were not hurte by it. And so he 
hathe made no retorne yet. What he wul doo I wat ner. He 
is stylle in this contre yet and schal be this iiij. or v. dayes, but 

171 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 your councell thynketh it were well don that ye gete an aulas'^ 
AUG. 7 ajj(j a pluries that it myght be sent don to the scheryf and than 

he can mak non excuse but nedys ^ it well (?) 

to make a retorne as he wol abide by. I can not wete how 
the catell woU be goten ayen withoute other processe be had 
more than we have yet. 

Item, oh Tuesday next comyng schal the sescions of the 
pees be at Wolsyngham. What schal be do ther I wot not 
yet"; for as for any indytementes that we schuld labor a yenst 
them it is but wast werk ; for the scheryf ner the jerrours 
wol no thyng do ayenst them. 

Item, wher as ye desire to knowe what gentelmen wolde do 
for you at this tyme, in goode feythe I founde Herry Greye, 
Lomnor, Alblastre, Wer .... P), Berney of Redham, 
Skyppewith, and Danyell of Merchelond, ryght weele disposed 
to you ward at this tyme in helpyng and in zevyng ther goode 
avice to me for suche maters as I had to doo. Ye schal have 
more pleyne undrestondyng of all thynges her after than I may 
write to you at this tyme. 

Item, the supersedias^ and the supplicavit^ is delyverd to 
Alblastre and to Wechyngham, and they have mad out bothe 
warantes and supersedias ; * nevertheles ther is non servyd yet. 

Item, I received the box with the writt and the letter that 
Berney sent to me on Friday last and non er [no earlier]. 

Item, as for the pris of malte it is fallen here sore, for it is 
worthe but iJ5. viij^. j. quarter at Yermoth. 

Item, as for your wolle, I may selle a stoone for xld., so 
that I wol geve halfe yere day of payment. I prey you sende 
me word how I shal do in this matre and in all other, &c. 
And God kepe you. Wreten in haste the Wednesday next 
aftre Lammes daye. 

Your M. Paston. 

1 So in MS. ' A word illegible. 

3 So in MS. 

* Supersedeas is a writ to stay certain proceedings ; supplica'vit a writ for taking 
surety of the peace when violence is threatened by any one. 



172 



EDWARD IV 

600 

JOHN PASTON TO MARGARET PASTON^ 
'To my cosyriy Margaret Paston, at Heylisdonn. 

IRECOMAUND me to you. And as for the letter that I 1465 
send yow touchyng John Russe, I will that ye and your aug. 7 
counsell see it openly ; and kepe this bille to your self or 
to some secret frend of yours. And I pray yow remembir ij. 
thynges ; on, if ye fynd hym in any maner wise disposed to 
leve his bargeyn, take it at his offer, and take ayen the writyng 
that he hath of that bargeyn, or a writyng of his owne hand of 
relesyng his bargeyn to me ; for peraventure at this tyme he 
woll be glad to leve his bargeyn, as I undirstand, and whanne 
he sethe that I have peas he wolle calle theron ayen. Wherfore 
I pray yow werk wisely herin, for he may in no maner wise 
aske the money of me and kepe his bargeyn, for he hathe 
divers tymes desired me to have take of hym more masse (J) 
therfore. Another, as sone as ye may, or ye breke this mater 
with John Russe, make due serche with the fermours at 
Akthorp what mony Russe hath reseyved ther in my tyme, 
that is to sey, for Mighelmes the first, the ij., iij., iiij. yeres of 
Kyng E., of whech he hath reseyved ij. payments, that is xij//. 
at the lest, or er the maner was trobelid by Jenney or Yelverton. 
And I deme that he hath reseyvid some sithen, but that he 
kepith counsell. 

Item, for as moch as Sir Thomas Howes gaderid for the 
xxxix. yere of Kyng Herry, the seid John Russe woll, under 
colour of that surmytte, that he reseyvid in my tyme was ther- 
fore, wherfore ye must make a serche what he hath reseyvid 
sith Sir John Fastolff dyed, and what tyme ; and therupon ye 
shall undirstand what he hath reseyvid for me, and what for 
hym ; and in case he hathe reseyvid xii//., and Richard hath 
payd hym his dute as he promised, thanne growyth nat to John 

1 [From Paston mss., B.M.] It is sufRcIently clear from the reference to accounts 
of the 4th year of Edward iv., that this letter cannot be earlier than 1465, which is 
the last year of the writer's life. 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 Russe past iiij. or wli. ; notwithstandyng fare fayre with hym 



7 



and resonabilly, so that he leve his bargeyn, and lend hym the 
remnaunt of the xylU. upon suerte for xx/;. He desireth to 
have outher his dewte or borowyng at this tyme. 

Item, he that shall speke with the fermours of Akthorp, whos 
name is Langham, he must inquere generally what mony he 
hath payd to all men sith Sir John Fastolff dyed, and see his 
billes of payment, and take therof a titelyng. Ric. Calle hath 
a bille of parcellis of every mannes ferme, and he can serche 
this best, in case he be not to favorabill to John Russe, wher- 
fore I remitte this to your discrecion ; but I suppose John 
Russe woU telle yow what he hath reseyvid for hand bifore this 
tyme wretyn by his seying what he had reseyvid, and I suppose 
and he remembird that he seid to me, he wold not aske his 
mony in this forme ; nevirthelesse it shall do good, so he leve 
his bargeyn by this meane. 

I mervyll that I here no tidyngges from yow hough ye 
have do at the assisses. The berer of this letter is a comon 
carier, and was at Norwich on Satirday, and brought me lettirs 
from other men, but your servaunts inquere nat diligently after 
the comyng of cariers and other men. Wretyn at London the 
Wednesday next after Lammes day. 

Ye shall have lettirs of me this weke. 

John Paston. 

601 

JOHN PASTON TO MARGARET PASTON 
AND OTHERS 1 

'To my mastresse^ Margret Paston^ James 
Gresham and Ric. Calle. 

1RECOMAUND me to yow, and have reseyvid ij. lettirs 
from John Russe, wherin he remembirth me that I shuld 
owe hym xix//,, or therupon, for divers parcelles whech he 
seith he shuld have deliverid in to myn hows, wherof he seith 

* [From Paston Mss., B.M.] This is evidently the letter referred to in the begin- 
ning of the last. 



EDWARD IV 

xiiij//. was deliverid in to myn howse ij. yere g[oon], and that 1465 
I had a bille deliverid me therof, and the remnaunt sithen, and aug. 7 
desireth of me payment of the seid xixli. Wherfore I certi[fye] 
yow as I undirstand in the mater ; ye may lete John Russe 
come to yow and take such a direccion in the mater as reason 
and trought woll. I lete yow wete that abought ij. yer goo 
the seid John Russe deliverid me first a bille of the seid xiiij. 
[//.], and I examined the parcelles ; and as I remembir xjV/ . 
was my dewte, wherof the certeyn somme is writen in my blak 
book of foreyn reseytes that yere, and the remnaunt was Ric. 
Calles dewte, wherof he was allowed, savyng apart was Elys 
dewte. And as for the seid xj//., I offerid the seid John 
Russe payment in hand at that tyme, and desired hym he 
shuld no more send in to myn howse, and warnyd yow and 
Richard that ye shuld no more stufFe take in to myn hows 
without ye peyd in hand, nowther of hym ner of non other. 
And the seid John Russe prayd me to remembir that I had 
grauntyd hym the maner of Akthorp in Leystoft, at a certeyn 
prise, as it apperyd by writyng undir my seall, and desired me 
that I wold take the seid somme in party of payment. And I 
told hym that as for such mony that shuld com from hym for 
that lond, I wold take it of hym and ley it up by the self, that 
I myght purchase other lond therwith, bicause I wold lesse 
Fastolffs lyvelode for the college, but I wold pay hym his 
dewte without any stoppage. And he thanne desired me to 
take that same xj/z'., and ley it up to the same use, seying to 
me that it was as good to do so as I for to take it hym, and 
he to take it me ayen. And thus he and I agreed, and de- 
parted, and thanne he prayd me to take more chafar of hym, 
whech I denyed. And nough I merveyll what shuld cause 
hym to aske mony for that dewte; neverthelesse I deme he 
supposith that he coud not opteyne his bargeyn by me, bi- 
cause of the trobill that it standyth in ; and for that or for 
some other cause he repentyth his bargeyn and woll nomore 
of it. Wherfore send for hym, and take James Gresham or 
some of your frends and Richard Calle, and fele what he 
menyth ; and if ye can fynd hym disposed to leve his bargeyn 
yet, though I myght kepe stille the seid mony I wold he shuld 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 not lese therby. Nevirthelesse if he woll refuse his bargeyn, 
AUG. 7 thanne take ayen the writyng that he hath of that bargeyn and 
a writyng of his hand that he dischargyth me of the graunt 
that I mad hym of that same bargeyn. And thanne loke that 
ye enquere what mony he hath reseyvid of the seid maner in 
my tyme, wherof the ferme is vj//. yerly whech I suffird 
hym to occupie to his owne use by fors of the seid bargeyn all 
my tyme ; and aftir the parcellis cast what I have had of hym ; 
abbate therof the mony that he hath reseyvid of the seid 
maner, and also as moch of the xiiij/z. as the seid Ric. Calle 
and Elys owen, wher of he is alowid ; and thanne see that the 
seid John Russe be content of the remnaunt of his parcellis 
that is dew by me, but loke ye pay non other mennes dewtes. - 
Also the seid John Russe writyth in his lettir that rather 
thanne he shuld fayle this mony that I wold lend hym asmoch 
to pay ayen at Cristemasse ; wherfore, if he leve his bargeyn 
I woll ye lend hym asmoch mony over his dewte as shall make 
up xx//., takyng of hym suerte to pay ayen at Cristemasse, as 
he writyth; in case be that he will kepe stille his bargeyn, 
thanne ye may answere hym it is no reason that he shuld aske 
me any part of that mony ayen, for he owyth that and moch 
more. 

Item, the seyd John Rus sent me heder a man for this 
mater only with in thes ij. daijs, Wherfor let him know an 
ansue letyng (?) for I fel well (?) he hath mad agret bargen 
but late, wherfor he hath mor nede of mony now, and I wol 
do for hym that I may resonably. Nevertheles his wryting 
merveylith me that he askith thes mony as dewte, wheche he 
toke me for parte of my payment. I deme it comith not all 
of his owne disposicion. Inquier ye that ye can what it 
menith. God kepe yow. Wret the Wednisday nex Lammes. 

Yowr John Paston. 

In cas yc han Drayton in any quiete take sewertie of yowr 
tenants for paiment as I have wret befor. 



176 



EDWARD IV 

602 

JOHN ESTGATE TO 



SER, ze sent to me a letter conteynyng the substaunce of 1465 
the processe off Mr. Robert Ippy swell for the mater 
off the codicill of Nicholas Pykeryng, &c. Me 
mervelyt gretly off the certificat off Mr. Robert in that be 
halve, for this is the truthe as forth forth as I kan remembre 
me. The codicill had nether day nor place lymyte, qwer or 
qwan it xuld a ben mad; qwerfor to a reprovyd that that 
nether was qualifyid with day nor place it had be gret foly, 
&c. Therfor I askyd off the juge hys accounts, and specy- 
ally the deposicionys and attestacionys off the wytteness that 
wer swor in the seyd codicill, &c. ; by the qwyche it mowth 
appere clerly qwan and qwere this codicill xuld a be made and 
wrete. And this sen I mad protestacion to for the seyde Mr. 
Robert that I wolde impugne the mater as lawe requiryd. The 
qwych peticion I made diverse tyme to fore moche recorde, 
judicialy syttyng the seyde M. R.,^ &c. The qwyche peticion 
he wold not her, but seyde expresse that nether Will. Pyker- 
yng nor non other man xuld sen his accounts nor knowe qwat 
the deposicion wer in that parte ; this mater was comownyd to 
for Mr. John Selet and my mayster and yours diverse tymys, 
and ever he seyde we xuld not sen the seyde deposicions. 
And so qwat sum ever he hath certyfyid, this is the truthe, 
God to wetenesse and all Seynts, qwo preserve zow evermore. 
And I pray zow to declare this to my mayster and zours ; 
and comende me hertly to hys good maysterchep. And God 
sende hym victorye off all hys elmyes, and so pray all hys well 
wyllers at Norwich. John Estgate. 

* [From Paston Mss., B.M.] The writer of this letter is reported to be dead in 
No, 604, which was written on the i8th August 1465. We have little doubt, how- 
ever, that this belongs to the same year, as the names of Robert Ippeswell and John 
Salet occur in the correspondence more than once about this time. 

* Master of the Rolls. 

VOL. IV. M 177 



THE PASTON LETTERS 



603 

WILL OF NICHOLAS PICKERING ^ 

1 465 To alle trewe Cristen pepill the wiche these present letteres schall se or here, 
Roberd Banyngham, confessour to Nicholas Pekeryng of Filby, Alson the wyfe 
of the seide Nicholas, Roger Silveryn, John Herte of Cowteshall, Robarde 
Yoxsale, Richarde Hawe, Robarde Manufrac (?), John Case, ser vaunt of the 
forseid Nicholas, and Henry Becham, servaunt of the seide Nicholas, and 
Thomas Page of Beston, sende gretyng in oure Lorde. Where it is mery- 
tory nedefuU to here wytenesse of troughthe, alle ye mot knowe us that we 
herde the forseide Nicholas Pekeryng seyn, lying on his dede bedde, these 
wordes folwyng, as we willen answere before God, that whanne William 
Pekeryng, sone of the seide Nicholas rekenyd with his fadir for xx. quarteres 
barly that the seid William cleymed of his faderys yifte to his mariage ; and 
for vij. dayes cariage of corne in hervest, and for als a thousande waltyle that 
his fadir had fro ye seide Williams wyfes place, the wiche reknyng greved the 
seide Nicholas his fadir, and seide, ♦ Thou comyst in with many bak reken- 
yngges. Remembre the that thou hast be the costlyest childe that evere I 
hadde, and how that I yaf ye x. acres of fre londe, and ^ a place in mariage, 
and many othir thyngges that is muche better than all thi bak rekinyngges. 
And I have now yove ye other x. acres of fre londe aftir my discesse ; and me 
thynketh be the thou heldest the not lowest, but woldest have all. But on 
thyng I shall sey to the ; if thou trouble John, thy brother, or ony of rayn 
executores, or cleyme ony more londes or goodys that evere were myne, I shal 
yeve ye Goddys curse and myn, for thou hast be ever frowarde to me.' In 
witnesse and recorde herof we have sette oure sealys. 

To alle trewe Cristen pepill the qwiche these presente letters shal see or 
here, John Herte of Couteshale, Roberd Yoxhale, Roger Silveryn, Thomas 
Dawes, and Thomas Drye, sende gretyng in oure Lorde. Where it is mery- 
tory, nedefuU and medefiill to here witnesse of trought, all ye mot knowe us, 
that we herde William Pekeryng, sone of Nicholas Pekeryng, seyn that his 
fadir wolde he shulde have but x. acres of fre londe aftir his decesse be syde 
other X. acres of fre londe that he yaf hym in maryage. In wittenesse and 
recorde heer of we have setto oure scales. 

Endorsed: A Testymonyall. 



^ [From Paston mss., B.M.] From the contents of the preceding letter it is pro- 
bable that this document was drawn up in 1465. Blomefield, indeed, states (vol. ii. 
p. 221) that Nicholas Pickering was buried in the steeple of Filby church in 1466. 
JBut the date may be an error, for he certainly seems to have been dead in or before 
1465. 

* and repeated in MS. 

178 



EDWARD IV 

604 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON^ 

To my ryght wyrshypfull mayster^ John Paston^ 
be thys letter delyveryd in haste. 

RYGHT wyrshypfull husbond, I recomaund me to you. 1465 
Please it you to wyte that the cause that I wrote to aug. 18 
you non er \earlier\ than I dyde after the sessyons 
was by cause that Yelverton held sessyons at Dyrham and 
Walsyngham the next wyke after the assyses, and to have 
knowlech what labour that was made ther, and to have send 
yow werd therof. Ther was grete labours made by the bayly 
of Coshay and other for to have endytyd your men both at 
Dyrham and at Walsyngham, but I purvayd a mene that her 
\theiTr\ purpose was lettyd at thos ij. tymes. 

Hugh a Fen ys in Flegge. Richard Call spake with hym 
thys wyke, and he sayd to Richard that he and his wyiF wold 
be with me here thys wyke toward a place of hys that he hath 
purchasyd of Godehreds. Yf he come I shall make hym gode 
chyre, for it ys told me of dyvers folks that have spoke with 
hym sythen he com in to NorfFolk as thay fele by hys sayng 
that he awyth you ryght gode wyle. 

Item, as for my comyng to you, yi it please you that I 
come, y hope I shull purvey so for al thyngs or I com that it 
shull be sayfF y nogh by the grace of God tyll I com ayen ; 
but at the reverens of God, yf ye may purvey a mene that ye 
may com hom your sylf ; for that shall be most profortabell 
to you, for men cut large thongs here of other mens lether. I 
shull wryte to you ayen as hastely as I may. God have you in 

1 [From Fenn, iii. 370.] That this letter was written in the year 14-65 appears 
clearly by the reference to the Assizes held at Walsingham {see No. 599), and the in- 
tention which the writer intimates of visiting her husband in London. Moreover, the 
first sentence of the letter, and also the postscript, are evidently written in answer to 
her husband's complaint in No. 600, that she had not written to him what she had 
done at the Assizes, 

?7? 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1 465 Hys kypyng. Wryten in haste at Haylesdon, the Sonday next 
AUG. 18 after the Assumpsyon of our Lady. 

Item, my cosyn Elysabeth Clere ys at Ormesby and your 
moder purposyth to be at her place at Caster thys wyke, for 
the pestylens ys so fervent in Norwych that thay ther [^dareF"] 
no lenger abyde ther, so God help ; me thynkyth by my moder 
that she wold ryght fayn that ye dyde well and that ye myght 
spyde ryght well in your mater. And me thynkyth by my 
cosyn Clere that she wold fayn have youre gode wyll, and that 
she hath sworyn ryght faythfully to me that ther shall no 
defaute be founde in her, nor noght hath be yf the trogh 
myght be understond, as she hopyth it shuU be herafter. She 
sayth ther ys no man a lyfF that she hath put her truste in so 
moch as she hath doon in you. She sayth she wote well such 
langage as hath be reportyd to you of her other wyse then she 
hath deservyd causyth you to be other wyse to her then ye 
shuld be. She had to me thys langage wypyng, and told me 
of dyvers other thyngs the whych ye shall have knowlych of 
herafter. 

As for the hygh shyrf \jheriff~\ he demenyd hym ryght 
well her to me, and he sayd to me, as for replevyns he wold 
aske counseyll of lernyd men what he mygt doo therin, and as 
largely as he mygt do ther in, or in any other mater touchyng 
you, savyng hymisylf harmlys, he wold doo for you and for 
yours that he mygt do. 

Item, I have do layd in [caused to he laid in] the presenta- 
cyon of Drayton, and have presentyd Sir Thomas Hakon, 
parson of Felthorp, the whych is hold ryght a gode man and ' 
wel dysposyd, and the Duck of Suffolk hath layd in a nother ; 
and ther shall be take an inquisicyon ther uppon, and Mr. 
Styven ys your a voked [your advocate] therin. Mr. John 
Estgade ys passyd to God on Thursday last passyd, whos 
sawle God assoyle ! Wherof in gode feyth I am ryght sory, 
for I fynd hym ryght fayth full to you. They deyy ryght 
sore in Norwych. 

John Rus sayth the profets that hath be take of the maner 
of Caister syn Sir John Fastolf deyd hath be take by Sir 
Thomas Howys and Jenney. By yours, M. P. 

180 



EDWARD IV 

I mervayll that ye had no tythyngs from me at that 14^5 
tyme that your letter was wryten, for I send you a letter ^"°- ^^ 
by Chytockys son that ys prenteys in London, and the seyd 
letter was of the demenyng at the assyes at Norwych and of 
divers other maters. I pray you send me word yf ye have 
it. As for the replevy ns Richard Calle sayth he hath send you 
a awnswere of hem, and also the copys of them. 



605 

nq:pe 

In the Introduction in Volume i,, will be found a document entitled * A 
remembrance of the worshipful kin and ancestry of Paston, born in Paston in 
Gemyngham Soken.' This paper, which was printed in the preface to vol. 
V. of the original edition, p. xliv., appears to have been composed during the 
lifetime of John Paston by some one who owed the family no good will, not 
unlikely by Sir William Yelverton. The contents agree very well with the 
imputation made on John Paston, for which he was imprisoned in 1465, that he 
was a bondman to the King. The original of this document I have not met 
with. 



606 

ABSTRACT 1 

Examinations touching Fastolf's Will 

John Paston examined by a commission of Thomas, Archbishop of Canter- 
bury, addressed to John Druell, LL.D., in the cause between Sir William 
Yelverton, Knight, and William Worcester, pretensed executors of Sir John 
Fastolf, and John Paston, Esq., and Thomas Howys, executors, as is said, 
dated 8 July 1465. 



1 [From Paston mss., B.M.] Among the Paston mss. in the British Museum is 
a small volume (Addit. MS. 27,450) of 132 pages, with a contemporary parchment 
cover, consisting entirely of examinations of witnesses touching Sir John Fastolf's 
Will. It is in two parts, separated by a blank page, the first containing the deposi- 
tions of John Paston, taken in 1465, and the second those of the witnesses brought 
forward by Yelverton and Worcester, which were taken in 1466. We give here the 
substance of Part i. only. An abstract of Part 11. will be found under its proper 
date. 

181 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

146 c !• Whether Sir John Fastolf made his will, dated 14 June 1459, in 

AUG. English, and sealed by him with his seal of arms ? Answer. He made a note 
of articles in his will, deponent thinks in Latin, probably on that day, but it was 
not then sealed, and no executor was named. 

2. Whether before the will was fair copied an original note of it was made 
on paper, and corrected and interlined by Paston ? And whether that note fair 
copied was the true will which was sealed by Fastolf? — There was such a 
note, which being made, Paston went to London and waited some time, when 
William Worcester informed him it had been fair copied in the beginning of 
July. Had seen an old will long before, in which some of the articles were 
the same, but Fastolf altered them from time to time in consultations held with 
this deponent. Does not know if he did interline, but the note will show, 
which was then in the keeping of William Worcester, Fastolf 's clerk ; nor 
does he know if the will was drawn up from it, as he was not present at the 
engrossing or sealing, but hears there were several things altered. 

3. Where the will is, in whose custody, and whether he have power to 
execute it ? — The parchment sealed by Fastolf, which Worcester says was his 
will, was kept some time after his death at Caister, and afterwards produced in 
audience of the Archbishop, and there remains. 

28 Aug. Examined in the Fleet. — Said he was a prisoner, wished first to 
speak with his counsel, and desired another notary joined with Nicholas Parker, 
who was not indifferent. 

10, II, 12 Dec. Appeared before the commissary in the treasurer's house 
of St. Paul's Cathedral, London. Examination continued. 

4. Whether the said will was kept in the tower called the treasury of Sir 
John Fastolf at Caister till his death, and whether Paston and Howys after- 
wards entered and took it, and what was then done with it ? Whether, since 
Fastolf's death it was exemplified in Latin, and sealed with Fastolf's seal, and 
by whom ? And whether the Latin contained more or less than the English ? 
Who exhibited the English will in audience of Canterbury ? Was it the true 
will, or was it written and sealed after FastolPs death ? — Soon after FastolPs 
death the said parchment was exhibited to Paston by Howes and Worcester. 
It afterwards remained in the keeping of Howes and Paston, and has since been 
exhibited in the audience of Canterbury. It was not translated into Latin after 
Fastolf's death, nor sealed, to Paston's knowledge. Does not know any wiU, 
Latin or English, to have been sealed after Fastolf's death. 

5. Whether Paston exhibited any English will sealed in the audience of 
Canterbury ? — The note made in June contained an article relative to FastolPs 
college, and lands in Norfolk and Suffolk granted conditionally on their being 
refused by Paston. When Paston went to London, and after a time Worcester 
came to him, Worcester told him this note was put in parchment and sealed, 
with the other articles, by advice of Master John Brakley, about the beginning 
of July. William Bukman, now Abbot of Wymondham, then Prior of 
Yarmouth, was present when it was sealed, and named as a witness. He and 
Thomas Ingham reported that Fastolf told them at the time it was his will that 
Paston should have those things he had granted at the time of the seisin of the 
said feoffment delivered, whatever was written in the parchment. The said 

182 



EDWARD IV 

parchment (English) remains in the court. As to the Latin, Fastolf made on 146 c 
paper a schedule of executors for the Latin parchment, and told Paston and ^uc 
Howys that he did not mean all the executors to have administration of his 
goods. He also told Paston, Bracley, and Clement Felmyngham, after Paston 
returned from London, that he was informed the Latin will gave equal powers 
to all the executors, which he never intended. Fastolf made his last will in 
November, not altogether the same. 

6. Who kept Fastolf's seal ot arms and signet after his death, how long 
did it remain whole, and how many writings did Paston seal with them ? — At 
Fastolf's death his seal was in a purse sealed with his signet, and placed in a 
chest. The signet was on his finger at death, but was afterwards placed in the 
chest in presence of deponent and Thomas Howys, Master John Bracley, 
Master Clement Felmyngham, and three servants of Fastolf's chamber, and 
sealed with the seals of deponent, Howys, and others. The chest remained in 
Fastolf's chamber, sometimes in custody of his servants, and sometimes in that 
of Howys. Afterwards the seals were placed in a white box sealed in the 
presence of divers men in the hall of the manor, which box was delivered along 
with certain rings to John Stokys, who opened the box, and after inspecting the 
seals and rings, sealed it up again and delivered it to Roger Malmesbury, in 
whose custody they now remain. This deponent sealed nothing with them. 

7. Whether, after Fastolf's death, Paston or any other wrote on a schedule 
of paper a certain grant or bargain, viz., that Paston should have Fastolf's 
lands and tenements in Norfolk, Suffolk, and Norwich, for 4000 marks, and 
that Paston and Howys should have sole administration of his goods so long as 
Paston was alive ; and whether after Fastolf's death it was so recently written 
that Paston, to dry the writing, scattered ashes over it ? And if he say it was 
written during Fastolf's life, by whom was it written ? By himself, or John 
Russe, or Friar Brakley, or whom ? And how long before Fastolf's death, 
and in whose presence ? And whether that sum was specified in the schedule 
or a blank left for it ? And whether the contents of this schedule were 
extracted and put in a new one ? and by whom was that written ? Whether 
by J. Russe ? And what time elapsed between the two writings ? And 
whether the second schedule contained more than the first, and what the 
additional matter was, and by whom added ? And whether this asserted will 
of Fastolf, made, as Paston pretends, on Saturday, 3 Nov. 1459, was extracted 
or imagined from the contents of the said bills, or either of them ? And what 
was the matter in the said will added to the matters in the schedules ? And 
how long it was before the said pretended will could be formed to the satisfaction 
of John Paston ? 

For two years before his death Fastolf had granted that Paston should have 
the above lands after his death, without any condition, but for the purpose that 
he should found a college at Caister of seven monks or priests, and pay 5000 
marks to be distributed for the soul of Sir John Fastolf; and about that time 
he enfeoffed Paston and others in the said lands, declaring that that enfeoffment 
was to the use of the said Sir John for life, and afterwards of Paston After 
this, viz., in the said month of June, Fastolf made the said articles in certain 
paper notes in Latin and English. Master John Brakley kept copies, which 

183 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

146 C he showed to Paston after his return to London. After that, viz., in September 
AUG. ^od October, Fastolf several times requested Paston to engross the agreements 
made between them about the college, saying he would remit to him 1000 
marks of the said 5000 marks. And in October and November he recited in 
certain writings that in order that he might not be disquieted with worldly 
affairs he had bargained with this deponent that he should have the control of 
all his lands from which any profit might be derived in England, and of the 
households and foreign expenses belonging to him, so that he should put aside 
as much of his dues as he could spare for the college ; and that he should have 
all his lands in Norfolk, Suffolk, and Norwich, for 4000 marks, which he was 
to pay on certain stated days to Fastolf's executors for the benefit of his soul. 
Two paper writings were made of the premises, one by the hand of Paston and 
the other by Mr. John Brakley, which are severally remaining with them. 
This agreement Brakley, by Fastolf's order, got written out in parchment 
indented, and read to Fastolf, who sealed it in his presence as Brakley reported 
to Paston. Afterwards, another of the said writings was read to Fastolf in the 
presence of Paston, Brakley, Mr. Clement Felmyngham, and others, several 
times in October and November. Comments were made on the reading of 
it by Fastolf on one occasion, when he said a certain clause was not consistent 
with his intention, which was that Paston and Howys should be sole adminis- 
trators of his goods, and that as to his lands in Norfolk, Suffolk, and Norwich, 
and the college to be founded, he would dispose of them according to his 
agreement with Paston, — the master to have a stipend of ^10, and each of the 
fellows of 10 marks, and that seven poor men should be found with 40s. a year 
each, as stated in the will. Fastolf desired his will dated in June to be 
corrected in these particulars, and written anew by Walter Shipdam, for whom 
he frequently sent on this business. Meanwhile Brakley and Paston wrote 
another paper in English as a memorial of Fastolf's intention, of which 
deponent delivered a copy under his own hand in Court. The last two lines 
this deponent wrote and dried with ashes in presence of Thomas Howys. The 
will of 1 4 June and that exhibited by Paston and Howys differ little or nothing 
in effect, except in these articles touching the college, and the sole administration 
given to Paston and Howys. 

As to new writings after Fastolf's death. Brakley translated those words 
about the sole administration from English into Latin, partly before his death 
and partly after. After FastolPs death Paston, Howys, and Brakley caused 
the said Walter Shipdam to put into form {^fecerunt dictum IV. S. formare) the 
last will and testament of the said Fastolf, both of the said college and of the 
said single administration [de dicta singular! administratione) , and of other things 
in the will of June not contrary to his last will and declaration, of which several 
writings were drawn by Shipdam, first in paper and afterwards in parchment. 
As to the writing of the agreements, Brakley kept it during Fastolf's whole 
life, and a year after, and a copy remained with this deponent after Fastolf's 
death ; at which time deponent and Howys were sitting in the hall of the 
manor of Caister at supper when William Worcester came into the hall, and 
Paston and Howys, rising from supper, had a talk with Clement Felmyngham, 
John Brakley, and William Worcester, immediately after Fastolf's death. At 

184 



EDWARD IV 

that time, by the advice of Brakley, a copy of the agreement was delivered to 1 46 5 
William Worcester, at his request, folded up and sealed that night by Brakley, ^ug. 
Clement Felmyngham, and Howys. It remained in Worcester's keeping till 
he rode to London, and then he left it with the said Master John Brakley, 
Clement Felmyngham, and Thomas Howys. Its tenor was transcribed on 
parchment by Shipdam shortly afterwards. 



607 

JOHN PASTON THE YOUNGEST TO 
MARGARET PASTON 1 

To my mastras^ Margaret Paston^ be this 
delivered in hasty at London. 

AFTYR all humbyll and most dwe recomendaclon, as sept. 14 
LjL lowly as I can, I beseche yow of your blyssyng. 
X A. Plesyt yow to wet that I have sent to my fadyr 
to have an answer of syche maters as I have sent to hym for 
in hast, of whyche matyrs the grettest of substans is for the 
maner of Cotton, besechyng yow to remembyr hym of the 
same mater, that I may have an answer in the most hasty 
wyse. 

Also I pray yow that myn Ante Poonyngys^ may be 
desyiryd to send me an answer of syche materys as sche 
wotyth of, by hym that schall brynge me an answer of the 
mater of Cotton. 

Also, modyr, I beseche yow that ther may be purveyd 
some meane that 1 myth have sent me home by the same 
mesenger ij. peyir hose, j. peyir blak and an othyr payir roset, 
whyche be redy made for me at the hosers with the crokyd 
bak, next to the Blak Freyrs Gate, within Ludgate ; John 
Pampyng knowyth hym well jnow I suppose. And {if] the 
blak hose be payid for he wyll send me the roset un payd 

^ [From Fenn, iv. 224.] It appears by Letter 610 following that Margaret 
Fasten was in London in September 1465. This letter must therefore have been 
written in that year. 

5 Elizabeth Paston, now widow of Robert Poynings ; afterwards married to Sir 
George Brown of Betchworth Castle, Surrey. 

i8j 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 for. I beseche yow that this ger be not forget, for I have 
SEPT. 14 not an hole hose for to doon ; I trowe they schall cost both 
payr v'njs. 

My brodyr ^ and my sustyr Anne,^ and all the garyson of 
Heylysdon fare well, blyssyd be God, and recomand hem to 
yow everychon. 

I pray yow voysyt the Rood of Northedor^ and Seynt 
Savyour, at Barmonsey,* amonge whyll ye abyd in London, 
and lat my sustyr Margery ^ goo with yow to pray to them 
that sche may have a good hosbond or sche com hom ayen ; 
and now I pray yow send us some tydyngys as ye wer wonte 
to comand me ; and the Holy Trinyte have yow in kepyng, 
and my fayir mastras of the Fleet. Wretyn at Norwyche on 
Holy Rood Daye. 

Your sone and lowly servaunt, 

J. Paston the youngest. 



608 

ANONYMOUS TO MARGARET PASTON « 

To my mestresse^ Margaret Paston^ by thys letter delivered. 

SEPT. (.) I ^LEASE your good mastreschep to have knowlage that 

\r^ as thys day was Master Stevyn of Norwich at Caster, 

and ther he told me he was yesterday at Hoxhon with 

the Byschop of Norwych ; and ther he seythe that ther is gret 

labor mad be Master Phylyp ^ and be the baly of Cossey ; in 

1 Sir John Paston.— F. 

2 Anne Paston, afterwards the wife of William Yelverton. — F. 

3 The Cross at the north door of St. Paul's. 

* The Abbey of Saint Saviour at Bermondsey, in Surrey, was founded in 108 1, 
1 5th William the Conqueror, by Alwin Child of London ; it was surrendered in 
1539, 31 Hen. VIII., when it was pulled down, and a Fair House built on the site by 
Sir Thomas Pope, Knight. — F. 

^ Margery Paston ; she afterwards married Richard Calle. — F. 

* [From Paston Mss., B.M.] This letter was probably written about or before 
the beginning of September 1465, as the proceedings of Salet and Ipyswell on the 
commission of inquiry here referred to are alluded to in a letter of Margaret Paston 
to her husband on the 27th of that month. 

^ Doubtless Philip Lipgatc. 
186 



EDWARD IV 

SO moche ther is mad a comission on to Master John Salet and 1465 
Master Robert Ipyswell for an inquerry that the parson ^ that sept. (?) 
my master ^ mad last at Drayton ys deed, as they sey, and in 
so moche they purpose to put in the parson of Felthorp, as he 
hard sey, for the Duk of Suffolk. And thes he thynkyth it 
were a gret urt to my master tytyll. And also another inquerry 
howe [who'] ys patorne of the seyd chyrche ; and thys is leke 
to come in revelicion but yf [unless] ther be gret labore mad to 
morowe be tymys and that ye have a man at Hoxhon in all 
hast for a newe comicion ; and in that commysion Master 
Stevyn wold that ye shuld have Master Jon Salet, Master 
Symond Thornaham, Master Nicholl Stanton. And that it 
be mad be the avice of Master Jon Bulman ; for he told 
Master Stevyn he wold do for you that he may, in so moche 
Master Stevyn hathe promyssyd hym a nobyll ; and so the 
seyd Master Stevyn wold ye shuld send hym a letter and late 
hym have knolage that Master Stevyn shall reward hym that 
he shall hold hym pleasyd. 

Item, a told me that a sent a letter to Sir William Maryys 
of all this mater yesterday, weder ye have er not he can not 
sey, but in noo wyse that ye dyskure not Master Stevyn, for 
he wold not for an C/i. that it ware knowe that ye knewe ther 
of by hym, for he sey the gold gothe gret plenty at Hoxhon 
on ther part. And yf it be labord be tymys it may be 
remevyd to Caunterbury. Also yet it is good to send to 
Norwich to the seyd Sir William for the letter ar the massanger 
goth, &c. 

* This must be John Flowerdew, presented by John Paston and Thomas Howes 
in 146 1. 

* John Paston. 



187 



THE PASTON LETTERS 



609 

JOHN PASTON TO MARGARET PASTON 1 

To my Cosyn Margret Pas ton. 

1465 1|^ ^ YN owne dere sovereyn lady, I recomaund me to yow, 
SEPT. [21] V/l and thank yow of the gret chere that ye mad me 
here to my gret cost and charge and labour. No 
more at thys tyme, but that I pray yow ye woll send me hedir 
ij. clue of worsted^ for dobletts, to happe me thys cold wynter ; 
and that ye inquere where William Paston bought his tepet of 
fyne worsted, whech is almost like silk, and if that be mech 
fyner thanne that he shuld bye me after vij. or viij/*, thanne 
by me a quarter and the nayle therof for colers, thow it be 
derer thanne the tother, for I wold make my doblet all 
worsted for worship of Norffolk, rather thanne like Gonnores 
doblet. 

Item, as for the mater of the \yL^''-li. askyd by my Lady of 
Bedford ^ for the maner of Westthirrok, where as Sir Thomas 
Howes saith that he hath no wrytyng therof, but that Sir John 
Fastolf purchased the seid maner, and payd serteyn money in 
ernest, and aftirward graunted his bargeyn to the Due of 

^ [From Fenn, iv. 90.] From the mention of * this cold winter ^ at the beginning 
of this letter we might naturally suppose that the feast ' of Sent Mathe,' on or about 
which it was written, was that of St. Matthias, which occurs on the z+th of February. 
But we believe the day of St. Matthew to have been intended, so that the expression 
must have had reference to some unusually cold weather in September. It is clear 
from the contents of the letter that Margaret Paston had recently been with her 
husband in London, and had just left him in company with Richard Calle on her 
return towards Norfolk. Letters for her and Richard Calle had arrived from her two 
sons since they departed. Now the only time, so far as I can find, that Margaret 
Paston ever visited her husband in London — at all events when her sons were grown 
up — was in September 1465 ; and on that occasion Calle was with her, and every- 
thing else agrees. Indeed, no one can doubt that the latter portion of the letter 
immediately following was written in answer to this letter. 

2 Worsted is a small market-town in the most east part of the county of 
Norfolk, formerly famous for the manufacture of those stuffs which still bear its 
name, and of which, for the worship of Norfolk, J. Paston desired his doublet to 
be made. — F. 

3 Jaquetta, daughter of Peter of Luxembourg, Earl of Saint Pol, was the second 
wife of John, Duke of Bedford, the Regent of France during Henry vi.'s minority. 
She was married to him in 1433, and after his decease, in 1435, she became the wife 
of Sir Richard Wydvile, and died in 1472. 

188 



EDWARD IV 

Bedford, and so the money that he toke was for the mony 1465 
that he had payd. Pera venture Sir Thomas hath writyng sept. [21] 
therof, and knowyth it not ; for if ther be any such mony 
payd upon any bargeyn he shall fynd it in Kyrtlyngs bocks 
"that was Sir John Fastolfs reseyver, and it was abought such 
tyme as the Due of Bedford was last in Inglond, whech, as it 
is told me, was the viij. yere of Kyng Herry the fift, or the 
viij. yere of Kyng Herry the sext, and the somme that he 
payd for the seid bargeyn was CCC. marks. Also he shall 
fynd, the xxij. yere of Kyng Herry or ther abought, in the 
acompts of on of Fastolfs Reseyvors at London, that ther was 
take of Sir Thomas Tyrell, and of the Duchesse of Excestre,^ 
that was wif to Sir Lowes John, fermours of the seid maner, 
serteyn mony for repayment of part of the seid CCC. marks. 
Also he shall fynd in yeres after that, or in that yere, or ther 
aboutes, that Sir John Fastolf reseyved mony of my Lord 
Revers ^ that now is, by the name of Richard Wydevile, for 
his owne dette dew to Sir John Fastolf; wherfore, if Sir 
Thomas be trewe to his master, lete hym do his devoir to 
make that Worseter, whech is uphold be hym with the deds 
goods, to be trewe to his master, or ellis it is tyme for Sir 
Thomas to forsake hym, and helpe to punyssh hym, or men 
mast sey that Sir Thomas is not trewe ; and more over lete 

1 Anne, eldest daughter of John Montacute, third Earl of Salisbury, married, 
ist, Sir Richard Hankford, Knight; zndly, Sir Lewis John, Knight (whose will 
was proved in 1442); and 3rdly, John Holland, who was created Duke of Exeter 
6th January 1443, and died in 1446. Fenn erroneously supposed the lady to have 
been the widow of Thomas Beaufort, a previous Duke of Exeter, who died in 1426. 
This Beaufort, Duke of Exeter, married Margaret, daughter and heir of Sir Thomas 
Nevill, but his wife did not survive him, as Fenn supposed, for at his death he was 

-found to have been tenant of her lands for life by the law of England. Fenn's note 
on this passage is, however, so interesting that we must quote a part of it. Beaufort, 
Duke of Exeter, was buried in the Abbey of Bury St. Edmunds. * On digging,' he 
says, 'amongst the ruins of this Abbey, the body of the Duke was found, on the 
20th of February 1772, wrapt in lead, and entire. The face, hair, and every part were 
perfect, and the flesh solid, but being exposed to the air, the body soon became 

offensive I procured some of the hair, which was of a fine brown colour, and 

very flexible.' 

2 Sir Richard Wydvile, in 1448, was created Baron Rivers of Grafton, in North- 
amptonshire, and elected a Knight of the Garter. His daughter Elizabeth after- 
wards became the Queen of Edward xv., who then advanced her father to the dignity 
of Earl Rivers. He was seized by the Lancaster mutineers, and beheaded at Banbury 
in 1469. — F. 

189 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 Sir Thomas examine what he can fynd in this mater that I 
SEPT. [21] sent hym werd of, whech mater he shall fynd in the seid 
Resey vours bocks, if he list to seke it. 

Item, on the day after your departyng, I reseyved letters 
by Will. Ros from your sones to me, and to yow, and to 
Ric. Calle, &c. 

Item, I shall telle you a tale, 

Pampyng and I have picked your male^ 

And taken out pesis^ v.. 

For upon trust of Calles promise, we may soon onthryve ; 

And, if Calle bryng us hedir xx//.. 

Ye shall have your peses ayen, good and round ; 

Or ellis, if he well not pay yow the valew of the peses, 
there 

To the post do nayle his ere ; 

Or ellis do hym some other wrongs, 

For I will no nore in his defaut borough ; 

And but if the reseyvyng of my livelod be better plycd 

He shall Crists ours and mine clene tryed ; ^ 

And loke ye be mery and take no thought. 

For thys ryme is cunnyngly wrought. 

My Lord Persy * and all this house 

Recomaund them to yow, dogge, catte, and mowse, 

And wysshe ye had be here stifle, 

For the sey ye are a good gille.^ 

No more to you at this tyme. 

But God hym save that mad this ryme. 

Wret the of Sent Mathe,° 

Be yowr trew and trustie husband, J. P. 

1 Male, or Mail, is a trunk or portmanteau. It is to be observed that in the 
original letter the verses do not finish the line but are written as prose. — F. 

2 Pieces of money. 

3 I do not understand this line. — F. Surely * ours ' must be a misreading of 
* curs ' (curse) ? 

* Henry, Lord Percy, son and heir of Henry Percy, Earl of Northumberland, who 
was killed at the Battle of Towton in 146 1, by Eleanor, granddaughter and heir of 
Robert, Lord Poynings. 

His father having been attainted, he continued to be called Lord Percy ; but he 
was afterwards fully restored both in blood and title, 
s An agreeable companion. — F. 

• St. Matthew's Day is the 21st September. 

190 



EDWARD IV 
6io 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON i 

RYGHT wourchipful husbonde, I recomaunde me to 1465 
yow, dyssyryng hertely to here of yowr welfare, sept. 27 
thankyng yow of yowr grett chere that ye made 
me, and of the coste that ye dede on me. Ye dede more 
cost thanne my wylle was that ye choulde do, but that it 
plesyd yow to do so, God gyf me grase to do that may 
plese yow. Plesyt yow to wet that on Fryday after myn 
departyng frome yow I was at Sudbury and spake with the 
schreve, and Ric, CaJle toke hym the ij. writts, and he brake vic. 
them, and Ric. hathe the copes of them ; and he seyde he Norfolk 
wolde send the writts to hys undre-schryf and a leter ther- P^° °^* "*' 
wyth, chargyng hym that he schowlde do ther ine as largely 
as he owt to do. And I and Ric. informyd hym of the Answer of 
demenyng of hys undrchryf, how parciall he hade be with ^^^^"^5^^^ 
the other partye, bothe in that mater, and also for the replevyn. 
accionnys beyng in the scher ; and he was nothyng wel plesyd 
of the demenyng of hys undreschef, and he hat wretyn to 
hym that he choulde be indeferent for bothe partyes acordyng 
to the lawe, bothe for that materys and for alle other. What 
the undreschryf wylle do therin I wot ner, for he is not yet 
spokyn with. 

Item, as for Cotton, I entryd in to the plase as on Sunday 
last was, and ther I abode tyll un Wednysday last pasyd. 1 Margareta 
have left ther John Paston the yonger, Wykes, and other xij. jn^ravk 
men for to receive the profyttes of the maner ; and ayenst the manerium 
day of kepyng of the corte, I hope ther shall be more to Cotton die 
streynkyth them, yf it nede. John Paston hath be with my proxima 
lorde of Norfolk seyth [since] we entryd, and dyssyryd his ante 

1 [From Paston mss., B.M.] This letter is apostyled in the handwriting of John ^^ichaelis. 
Paston, and numbered ' till.' at the head, showing that it is of the same sequence as 
the next, which is numbered ' V.' and dated on the very same day. In fact, the latter 
is clearly nothing but a postscript to this, and bears the address upon the back, which 
this does not. 

191 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 good lorchyp to streynth hym with hys howsolde men and 

SEPT. 27 other yf nede be ; and he hath promysyd he would do so. 

yoJ^^f And I sent RIc. Calle on Tusday to Knevett, dysyryng hym 

your de- that he woulde sende to hys baley and tenaunts at Mendlesham, 

menyng at ^^^j ^|^gj choulde be redy to come to John Paston whan he sent 

„ ', . for them ; and he sent a man of his forthwith, chargyng them 

Nakton. in aney wyse that they choulde do so. And he sent me wourde 

be Ric. and hys sonne also, yf wee were not stronge inough, 

that owther he or hys sonne, 'or bothe yf nede were, would 

come with suche feleschipp as they coude gett abowt them, and 

that thei woulde do as feythfully as they kowde for yow, bothe 

in that mater and in alle other. 

Item, on Saterday last was, Jenney ded warne a corte at 
Calcotte to be holde ther in hys name as on Tusday last was, 
and Debenham dc[d] charge another court ther the Sunday 
next after to be holde ther the same Tusday in hys name. 
And Daubeney had knowleche ther of, and he dede send on 
Sunday at nyght to yowr elder sonne, for to have some men 
fro thens ; and so he sent Wykes and Bernay to hym on 
Mokenge Monday in the mornyng. And assone as thei were come to 
of Jenney Castre thei sent for men ther in the contre, and so they gett 
Debenham them in to a iij."""' men ; and Daubeney and Wekes and Bernay 
at Calcotes rod to Calcott the same Munday at nyght with ther felechyp, 
Tuisdav ^^^ ^^^^ ^^P^ them prevye in the pl[a]se, so that non of alle 
next bifore the tenaunts kneue them ther, saf Rysyngs wyiF and her how- 
^? solde, tylle the Theusday at x. of the cloke. And than Sir 

Now our Thomas Brews, Debunham the fadre,^ and the knyt hys sonne,^ 
cost is Jenney, Mykelfylde younger, Jermyn, and younge Jernyngham, 
doon, con- ^nd the Baley of Motforde, with other to the noumbre of a 
your ^ "j-"" persones, coum fro the sessionnys at Becklys, the whech 
Trends be thei hade keppt ther on the day byfor, coume to Seynt Olevys, 
and your ^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ teryed and dynyd. And whan thei had dynyd, 
enemyes Sir Gylberde Debenham came to Calcott with xx. hors for to 
discor- ^g^.|. ^^hat felechipp ther was in the plase. And than Wekes 
gadirup aspyed them commyng ; and he and Bernay and ij. with them 
the profits rode owt to a' spoke with them. And whan Sir Gilberd aspyd 
^^ly them comyng, he and his felechipp flede and rode ayen to Seynt 

* Gilbert Debenham, senior, Esq. 2 sir Gilbert Debenham. 

192 



EDWARD IV 

Olovys. And than they sent young Jernyngham and the 1465 
Baley of Mottforde to yowr men lettyng hem wete that the sept. 27 
Justice of the Pese wer coum doune with Debunham and j^JJ'j^JJiay 
Jenney, to se that the pese choulde be kepte, and that thei see 
choulde cntre and kepe the courte in pesible wyse. And yowr ^<^°""P'^ 
men answeryd and seyd that they knewe no man was pos- trobiil 
sessyd ther in, ner hade no ryght therin but ye, and so in your ^y'"^- 
name, and in your ryght they seyd they woulde kepyt. And 
so they yede ayen with thys answer, and wer put fromme ther 
purp[o]se that day. And all the tenaunts bestes wer put fro 
Calcalcott^ fee, and challe be tylle other remedy maye be 
hadde. Yowr men woulde not kepe ther a cort that daye by 
cause it was warnyd by the tother parte, but we wyl do warne 
a corte and kepyt, I hope in hast. Ye wyll laugh for to here 
alle the processe of the demenyng ther, wheche wer to longe 
to writt at thys tyme. Bernay challe telle yow whane he Veneat(/;V) 
come ; but he challe not come to yow tylle after Seynt ^^™*y- 
Feythesmesse,^ that he maye bryng yow answeres of other c<.ssiones 
materys. It is tolde me the sessionys chouUe be her atNorwid 
Norwiche on Tusday next comyng, and in Suffolk the Ses- J^^^.^j"'''*^' 
sionys challe be the same Tusday owther at Dounwyche or at proximo 
Ypswyche. I suppose ther challe be labowr ayenst soume of P°^' 
our folks ther, but we cholle assay to lete ther pourpose yf we Michelis. 
maye. It is tolde me yf ther hade no folks a' be left here in Dcprudcn- 
thys plase whyll I have be owt, they choulde a' be neue masters ^'.* ^^^°- 
her by thys tyme ; therfor it is not good to leve it alone Heyles- 
yett. ' don. 

Item, Arblaster hathe sent a letter to myn Lorde of Oxene- co^ft^j*^' 
fords tenaunts that be nerrest abowt Cotton to help John Paston Oxoniae 
yf they be sent to, &c. P""" „ 

custocti^ 

Item, I was thys daye with myn Lorde of Norwyche atcotton. 
Thorppe, and informyd hym of the demenyng of the mater for Episcopus 
Drayton chyrche, and of alle the demenyng and parcialte of Norwici 
Master John Solatt and Ypswell ; and also I informyd what ecclesia de 
disposission that they were of that were upon the quest. Drayton. 
And in good feyth me thynkyth by hym that he is ryght ille Lete yow 
plesyd that the mater was so gydyt. He seyde to me ryght coUTone 

1 So in MS. » 6th October. 

VOL. IV. N 193 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 pleynly that the Jugis dede not therin as thei owght to do, and 
SEPT. 27 he seyd thowe I hadde hade noo councell, the he howght of 
but thei"^' ^yg^^ ^^ ha.ve. assyngyd me councell suche as I hadde dyssyrid ; 
may sey but he seyde he wyst well he dede in that mater as he have do 
!^^y in other materys byfor. Me thynkyth by suche thynges I 

myn harde ther that the seyd Master John ner the tother is not 

cvidens grettly in conseyt at thys tyme ; and so tolde me Aschefylde 
ner have' i^ councell. What the cause was he myght have no leyser to 
no mor to telle me. I mevyd my lorde in the mater acordyng to the 
wimie? intent of yowr wrytyng yf aney axcion wer take ; and he seyd 
that I sent feythefully yf it myght prevayle yow, he woulde with ryght 
yow good wylle that it choulde be doo ; and ellys he woulde not in 

to avyse ^00 wyse that it choulde be doo. And he dyssyryde me to 
hough I sende to hym suche as be of yowr councell lernyd, that they 
^Ij * ^ myght comune with hym therin, for he seyd he woulde not ye 
accion, choulde take non axcion therin withowt it myght provayle. 
^"that*' He was well payed that I tolde hym that ye woulde not do 
accion I therin withowt hys knowleche and assent ; and he seyd he 
^*v^ ^? woulde do therin as he woulde do yf the mater wer hys owne. 
as^myLord Be avyse of yowr councell, I purpose to sende Loumnowr and 
of Norwich Playtcr to commone with hym therin. He seyd he woulde 
thechTrch ^'^7^^ that ye wer owt of troble ; and he seyd, yf he myght doo 
of Thorp, owght to helppe yow forwarde in aney of yowr materys, he 
swore by heys feythe he wode do hys parte feythfully therin. 
Episcopus I^^ purp[o]syd to be at London thys terme, and thanne he 
apud seyd he woulde speke with yow of maney thyngs ; he wycheyd 
Lon on. ^erteley that he myght have spoke with yow on owr. He 
Comwayle mevyd to me of a mater of a jentyllman of Cornale. He seyd 
he woulde speke with yow therof her after ; yf it myght be 
browt to, it myght do meche good in maney thyngis. I harde 
yow onys speke of the same ; ye tolde me ye hade be mevyd 
to therof by other. 

Item, I received at letter frome yow yesterday, wherof I 
thanke yow hertely, and I praye yow that I maye be as ye 
writt. And as for suche materys as Sir Thomas Howys 
choulde be spoke to for ^ I sent Ric. Calle this day to speke 
with hym, but he myght not speke with hym ; but as hastely 

* See No. 609. 
194 



EDWARD IV 

as I may I challe do myn parte to spede the erands and other. 1465 

It is tolde me that Sir Thomas wyll ressyng Mautby chyrche, sept. 27 

and yf it plesyd yow to geve it to on Sir Thomas Lyndis, I Mautby. * 

truste verely that ye choulde leke hym ryght well, for he is rit 

a prystly man and vertusly dysposyd. I have knowe hym this 

XX. yer and mor ; he was brother to the goode parsone of 

Seynt Michellys that ye lovyd ryght well ; and yf he myght 

havyt he woulde kepe an howsolde therupon and bylde {}) well 

the plase (?) ; and therof have it grete nede, for it is now rit 

evyll reparyd, and I wott well he woll be rulyd and gydyt as 

ye wyll have hym. I praye yow, yf it plese yow that he have 

it, that it lekyth yow to sende me an answer by the berrer Worsted. 

herof. 

Item, I have do spoke for yowr worstede 1 but ye may not 
have it tylle Halowmesse ; and thane I am promysyd ye challe 
have as fyne as maye be made. Ric. Calle challe bryng it up 
with hym. 

Wretyn the Fryday next before Michelmas day. 



611 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON^ 

T'o my ryght worschipfull husbond^ John PastoHy in haste. 

ITEM, it was tolde me thys day that Master John Salatt To get a 
hathe made a serge in the regestre this monethe aftre the ju^J'if"^-' 
wylles and testements of suche as bought the maners of hath 
Heylesdon and Drayton this c. yere, and be that hathe they • • hed ? 
founde suche evidence as schal be gret strenghthyng to the standyng 
Duks tittle, as it is seide. I undrestonde verely that Mastre [I] wote 
John Salet is all on that partye, and no thyng with you. Tave found 

non such 

1 See No. 609, p. 188, Note 2. evidens as 

2 [From Paston Mss., B.M.] This letter is apostyled in the handwriting of John yg wenc. 
Paston, and numbered ' V at the head. As it refers to Paston's dispute with the 

Duke of Suffolk about the manors of Hellesden and Drayton, it must belong to the 
year 1465. The reader will also perceive that it contains an allusion to John Paston's 
imprisonment in the Fleet, and to my Lord Percy, who is mentioned in Letter 609, 
and who must have been a fcllo%v-prisoner of Paston's. 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 Item, as for the bill that ye sent to Sir Thomas Howys 

EPT. 27 touchyng on Edmond Carvyll and on Fraunces, I wote ner 
whether he had hem or nought, for he is not spoken with yett 
in the maters. As wee spede owr materys, we chall sende yow 
answers of them as hastely as we maye. At the reverense or 
God, spede ye yowr materys that ye maye come owte of that 
loggyng that ye ar in as hastely as ye maye, for I have non 
fansey with some of the felechipp. I tolde yow, as me thowth, 
I praye yow be ware, &c. 

I praye yow yf it plese yow that I may be recommaundyd 
to my Lorde Percy, and to myn mastres, and to my Lorde 
Abott. And I pray God bryng yow and them owt of troble, 
and send yow good spede in alle yowr materys. Wretyn in 
hast, the Fryday next afor Michellmes. 

Be yowr, M. P. 

Yf it plese yow to send aney thyng by the berer herof, he 
is trusty inough. 



612 

SIR JOHN PASTON TO JOHN PASTON 1 

[T'o] his ryght worschypful \fd\dre John Paston^ ^^y^g 
[in i\he Flete at London^ he thys delyvered. 

RYGHT Worschypful Syr, in the most lowly wyse I 
recomand me to you. Pleasyth it you to wet that I 
sente you a letter but late agoo, in whych letter I lete 
you have understondyng that if it pleasyd yow to grante and 
assente therto, Syr Thomas Howes wolde resyngne the bene- 
fyse of Mawteby to a ful prestly man of Norwych callyd Sir 
Thomas Lyndys, whom I suppose ye have knolech of. Never- 
thelesse I wote wele he hath not ben grettly aquentyd with 
you. But I and he have ben moch aquentyd to geder, and I 

* [MS. in Pembroke College, Cambridge.] This letter, as will be seen, was written 
in 1465 on the same day as Margaret Paston's two letters, Nos. 6io, 6ii. 

196 



EDWARD IV 

understond and knowe hys vertews levyng and dysposicion 1465 
ryght wele ; whyche heraffter, I wote wele, sholde please you sept. 27 
ryght wele. And that letter whyche I sente you as I under- 
stode syns Nycholas Caiman the berer ther of came not owte 
of Norwych iiij. or v. dayes after that the bylle was delyveryd 
hym ; wherefor I am In dowte whyther it is come to your 
handes. 

Whych causyth me to wryght to you ageyn in thys wyse, 
besechyng yow, if it plese yow that the seyd Sir Th5s Lyndys 
schal be of your promotynge in the wyse above wretyn that 
there it lyke you that I may have answer by the berer herof ; 
whych schal tary at London a day or ij., and not passynge 
No more to yow at thys tyme, but Alle myghty God have yow 
in guydynge. Wretyn at Heylesdon the Fryday next byfore 
Seynt Mychell. 

By yowr older sone, John Paston. 



613 

SIR JOHN PASTON TO JOHN PASTON ^ 

'To my ryth rev err end and worchepfull fadre^ 
John Paston^ be thys delyveryd. 

AFTYR all humbyll and most due recomendacion, as oct. 3 
lowly as I can, I beseche yow of your blyssyng. 
Plesyt yow to have knowlege that as on Sonday next 
be for Myhelmas Day, as my modyr came fro London ward, 
sche cam homward by Cotton, and sche sent for me to Heylys- 
don to come to hyr thedyr, and so I have ben in the plase 
ever sethyn. And as sone as Myhelmas Day was past, I 
begane to dystreyne the tenants, and gadryd some syllvyr, as 
myche, I trowe, as wyll pay for our costs ; and yet I cepe here 
ryth a good felawschep, and mor wer promysyd me, whyche 

1 [From Fenn, iv. 80.] The signature of this letter, according to the fac-simile 
referred to by Fenn, is that of Sir John Paston, the eldest son of the person addressed. 
The date is undoubtedly 1465, as it will be seen by Letter 610 that Margaret Paston 
entered Cotton on Sunday before Michaelmas in that year. 

197 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

I 4.65 that came not to me, wherby I was ner deseyvyd. For when 
OCT. 3 Debnam herd sey how that I began to gadyr sylvyr, he reysyd 
many men with in j. daye and an halfe, to the nombyr of iij"^ 
men, as I was credebly assartaynyed by a yeman of the chambyr 
of my Lordys ^ that owythe me good wyll, whech yeman, as 
sone as he had sene ther felauschep, rod streyth to my Lord 
and informyd hym of it ; and also he informyd my Lord how 
that I had gadryd a nothyr gret felashschep, whyche felawschep 
he namyd more than we wer by j*"- and an halfe and yett more. 
And he seyd on to my Lord and my Lady, and to their consell, 
that with owt that my Lord took a dyrectyon in the mater, 
that ther wer leek to be do gret harme on bothe oure pertyes, 
wheche wer a gret dysworchep to my Lord, consederyng how 
that he takyth us bothe for hys men, and so we be knowyn 
well inow. Upon whyche informacion, and dysworchep to my 
Lord, that tweyn of hys men schold debat so ner hym, contrary 
to the Kyngs pese, consedryd of my Lord and my Lady and 
ther cownsell, my Lord sent for me and Syr Gylberd Debnam 
to come to hym to Framlyngham bothe, and as it fortunyd well 
my modyr come to me to Cotton not half an owyr be for that 
the mesenger came to me fro my Lord, wheche was late upon 
Twysday last past at nyth ; and the next day on the mornyng 
I rod to my Lord to Framlyngham, and so ded Syr Gylberd 
also. And as sone as we wer come, we wer sent for to come 
to my Lord, and when we come to my Lord, he desiyryd of us 
bothe that we schold neythyrthyr gadyr no felawschep, but 
syche men as we had gadryd that we schold send hem home a 
yen, and that the coort schold be contenuyd in to the tyme 
that my Lord, or suche as he wold asyngne, had spok bothe 
with yow and Yelverton and Jenney, and that on indeferent 
man chosyn by us bothe schold be assynyd to kepe the plase in 
to the tyme that ye and they wer spook with. 

And then I answed my Lord, and seyd how that at that 
tyme I had my maistyr within the maner of Cotton, whyche 
was my modyr, and in to the tyme that I had spook with hyr 
I cowd geve none answer; and so my Lord sent Rychord 
Fulmerston, berer hereof, to my modyr thys day for an 

1 The Duke of Norfolk. 
198 



EDWARD IV 

answer, whyche answer he schold bryng to my Lord to 1465 
London, for my Lord rod to Londons word as yesterday, o^^* 3 
and the soner be cause he trustyd to have a good end of 
this mater and alle othyr be twyx yow, whyche he takyth 
for a gret worchep to hym, and a gret avantage bothe, and 
he cowd bryng this mater abowt, for then he wold trust to 
have your servyse, alle whyche wer to hym gret tresour and 
avantage. 

And this was the answer that my modyr and I gave hym, 
that at the instans of my Lord and my Ladye we wold do 
thus myche as for to put the coort in contenuans, and no 
more to receyve of the profyts of the maner than we had, 
and had dystresid for tyll in to the tym that sche and I 
had werd ayen fro my Lord and yow, if so wer that they 
wold neythyr mak entreys nor dystreyn the tenantys, nor 
chepe no coort mor then we wold do. And we told Rychord 
Fulmerston that thys my modyr and I ded at the instans and 
gret request of my Lord, be cause my Lord intendyd pes, 
whyche resonably we wold not be ayenst, and yet we seyd we 
knew well that we schold have no thank of yow when ye knew 
of it, with owt it wer be cause we ded it at my Lordys instans. 
But be for thys answer we had receyvyd as myche sylvyr full 
ner as Rychord Calle sent us bokys of for to gadyryt bye ; 
and as for the possessyon of the plase, we told hym that we 
wold kepe it, and Syr Gylberd agreyd, so that Yelverton and 
Jeney would do the same ; for it was tyme for hym to sey so, 
for my Lord told hym that he wold hym fast by the feet ellys, 
to be suyr of hym, that he schold make non insurreccions in 
to the tyme that my Lord came ayen fro London. 

I wene, and so dothe my modyr bothe, that thys appoynt- 
ment was mad in good tyme ; for I was deseyvyd of bettyr 
than an C. men and an halfe that I had promyse of to have 
come to me when I sent for hem. Thys promes had I befor 
that I sent to yow the last lettyr the daye aftyr Seynt Myhell. 
Jenney herd seye that I cepyd Cotton, and he rod to Nacton, 
and ther held a cort and receyvyd the profytys of the maner. 

I beseche yow that I may have knowlage in hast fro yow 
ye wyll that I be demenyd in thys mater and in al othyr, and 

199 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 I schal aplye me to fulfyll your intent in them to my power by 
°^- 3 the grace of God, whom I beseche have yow in guydyng, and 
sende yow yowyr herts desyir. Wretyn at Hemnalle Halle, 
in Cotton, the Thursday next befor Seynt Feythe. 

My modyr recomandyth her to yow, and preyith yow to 
hold hyr excusyd that sche wrytyth not to yow at thys tyme, 
for sche may have no leyser. The berer her of schall informe 
yow whedyr Jeney wyll agre to thys appoyntment or not. I 
thynk he dar do non othyr wyse. 

Your sone and lowly servaunt, 

John Paston. 



614 

THE DUKE OF NORFOLK TO JOHN PASTON, 
THE YOUNGEST! 

To owr trusty and enterly beloved servaunt^ 
John Paston^ Esquyr. 

The Deuke of Norff. 

OCT. 12 I '\ YGHT welbeloved servaunt, y grete yow hertly welle, 
r^ sertefyng that we shulle be at fulle age on Fryday 
'^ nexst comyng. Wherfor, wele consayled be the 

Lordes of owr Consayle and oder of owr Consayle, that ye, 
on of owr servaunts of howsholde, with oder, be with us at 
London on Fryday or Saterday nexst comyng at the fFurdest, 
too a companye us thann too owr worshyp, for we shuU have 
thann levery of owr landes and offyces ; and that ye ffayle us 

* [From Fenn, iv. 62.] John Mowbray, third Duke of Norfolk, died on the 6th 
November 1461. It appears by the Inquisitions post mortem, 1 Edward iv.. No. 46, 
that John, his son and successor in the title, was seventeen years old on St. Luke's 
Day (i8th October) in that year. He must therefore have been born on the i8th 
October 144.4., ^^^ would have been of full age on Friday, i8th October 1465, The 
John Paston, Esq., to whom this letter was addressed, must have been the youngest of 
that name, who, as we have seen already, had been serving in the Duke's household. 
His father was at this time a prisoner in the Fleet, so that the letter could not have 
been intended for him. 

200 



EDWARD IV 

not, as ye woll have owr good Lordeshyp in tyme comyng; 1465 
and also that ye doo warne owr fFeede men^ and ser vaunts, oct. 12 
suche as be nye too yow, that they be ther thann in owr 
leverey. Y wreton the xij. day of October. 

NORFF. 

615 

THE DUKE OF SUFFOLK'S ATTACK ON 
HELLESDON2 

THYS be the parcell underwryten of such godys as were oct. 14 
taken and beren away at Haylesdon, of John Pastons, 
hys sones and hys servaunts by the Duk of Suffolk 
servaunts and tenaunts the xiiij. day of October the v. yere 
of Kyng E. the iiij^', the whych day the place of Haylesdon 
was broken and pullyd dowyn, &c. 

In primis, ther was lost of John Pastons ther at that tyme 
in beddyng ij. ffeder bedds with ij. bolsters, iiij. materas, with 
iiij. bolsters; a grete seler with the testor, and iij. corteyns of 
whyte lynen cloth, and a coverlyte of whyte werstede longyng 
therto. 

Item, a selere with a testore, and iij. corteyns of blewe 
bokeram with a coveryng of blew werstede longyng therto ; 
V. pylowys of dowyn, vj. coverlyts of werk of dyvers colors, 
vj. payr blankettys, ij. payr shytes of iij. webbys, ij. hedshytes 
of ij. webbys, vj. pay re shytes of ij. webbys, ij. basons of 
pewter, and iij. candelstykks of latyn for the chamber. 

The Botere. 

Item, in primis, vj. bord clothys, vj. towellys, xij. nap- 
kyns, vj. candelstykks of laton, ij. saltsalers of sylver, ij. salt- 
salers of pewter, ij. basons of pewter with ij. ewers, a barell of 
vyneger, a barell of vergyous, xij. ale stondys, ij. pantre knyves, 
a pyce of sylver, a pype for brede, a ale stole, xij. spones of 
sylver, &c. 

' Those who held lands of the Duke as their superior. 
2 [From a Bodl. MS.] 

201 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

The Browhem. 

1465 Item, a grete lede to brew v. comb malte with one plaw- 

ocT. 14 yng, a mayshsate, ij. kylyng sates, vj. kylers, ij. clensyng sates, 

a taptrogh, a temps to dense, with a scyppe to here malte, a 

syfF to syft malte, a bultyng pype, ij. knedyng satys, a mold- 

yng bord. 

The Kychyn. 

Item, ij. dosyn pewter vessell, iiij. grete bras pannes, iij. 
potts of bras, j, greddyron, ij. broches, j. dressyng knyff, j. 
morter of marbell with a pestell, j. litell panne of bras of di. 
galon, ij pothoks, ij, rakks of yron, ij. brendeletts, a almary 
to kepe in mete, j. axe to clyve wode, ij. saltyng satys to saltc 
in fflesh. 

Gere taken owt of the Chyrch. 

Item, in the stepell, ix. shefFe arwys, ix. bawys, ij. hand- 
gonnes, iiij. chambers for gonnys, ij. mallys of lede, ij. jakks. 

Item, in the church, a purs and iij. gold ryngs, a coler of 
sylver of the Kyngs lyvery and a nobyll of viijj. iiij^. the 
whych was Wykys. 

Item, a syde gowne of blewe of Wyks. 

Item, a stokke gonne with iij. chambers. 

Gere taken owte of the Chaumber of Ric. Calle. 

Item, a syde morrey gowne, a dobelet of blak satyn, a 
payre hosyn, a jakks, the polronds of a payr bryganders of 
rede sateyn ffugr. 

Item, a payr of large tabelles of box, pris vjj. viij<^. 

Item, a stafFe, pris iijj. iiij^. 

Item, boke of Frensh, pris \\y. iiija. 

Gere taken away of Margeret Pas tons. 
Item, an unce of gold of Venyse, di. pype of gold damask, 
di. unc' of gold of Gene, an unc' of sylk, a li. of threde, a 
close glasse of yvery, a grete combe of yvere, a fyne kerchy of 
fyne Holond cloth, a quarter of blak velwet. 
202 



EDWARD IV 

Gere of Johanne Gayns. 

Item, a ryng of gold with a dyamonics, a typet of sar- 1465 
senet, a nobyll of xj., a nobyll viijj. iiij^. oct. 14 

Gere of John PFyks. 

Item, a dobelet of blak fusteyn, a hers harnys, vjj. a gray 
hers, pris xIj., ij. shertys, pris iiijj. 

Will. Bedford. 
Item, a Normandy byll and a bawe, pris of them both y]s. 

John Boteler. 

Item, a payr botys, a payr sporys, a shert, a cappe, a hatte, 
a dobelet, a payr hosyn, a brydell, ij. crepers, v. ston of wall, 
XXX. welfellys, a spere staff. 

Shepe. 

Item, taken away uppon Draytun grounde at on tyme by 
the baylly of Cossey and others, CC. shepe callyd hoggys. 

Item, at a nother tyme, uppon the same ground, iiij**- 
hoggys and xl. theyves. 

Item, at a nother tyme, at Haylesdon, by the baylly of 
Cossey and Bottesford and other, iviij*^*^' moder shype and 
CCCC. lambes. 

Memorandum, a gowne of Richard Calle, pris ixj., j. peyr 

hosen, iijj., j- swerd, iijj., ij. bonets, ijj j. jakk, xxvjj. 

viij^., j. schert, iijj. m^d. 

Memorandum, the puUyng downe of the place at Hey- 
lesden, to the hurts and skathes of 

Item, the puUyng downe of the logge of Heylesdeai. 

Item, the distroyng of the waryne at Heylesdon. 

Item, .... the maner and the warreyn. 

Item, memorandum, the rydyngs and costs off suthe. 

203 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 Memorandum, the assaw made uppon Marg. Paston, Sir 

°^' H John Paston, at Heylysdon beeffor the place was .... 

Memorandum, the imprisonment off Sir John Paston in 
the Flet and in the Kyngs Benche. 



616 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON 1 

OCT* 17 /^^N Tuesday in the morwyn whas John Botiller, other- 
1 i wyse callid John Palmer, and Davy Arnald your 
^^-^ cook, and William Malthows of Aylsham, takyn at 
Heylesdon be the balyf of Ey callid Bottisforth, and led for 
to Cossey, and ther thei kepe hem yet with ought any warant 
or autoryte of Justice of Peas. And thei saye thei will carie 
hem forth to Ey preson, and as many as thei may gete more 
of your men and tenaunts, that thei may know that owe yow 
good wyll or hath be to you ward, thei be thret to be slayn or 
presoned. The Duke came to Norwich ^ on Tuesday at x. of 
clok with the nombre of v, hundred men. And he sent after 
the Meyr and Alderman with the Sherefs desiryng hem in the 
Kyngs name that thei shuld take an enqueraunce of the con- 
stablys of every ward with in the cyte what men shuld a go on 
your party to have holpyn or socowryd your men at any tyme 
of thes gaderyngs, and if any thei cowde fynde, that thei shuld 
take and arest hym and correct hym, and also certifie hym 
the names on Wyndenesse day [^We^nesJay] be viij. of clok. 
Which the Meyr dede, and wull do anythyng that he may for 
hym and his. And her up on the Meyr hath arestid on that 
was with me callid Roberd Lovegold, braser, and threte hym 
that he shall be hanged be the nek ; wherfor I wuld that ther 

^ [From Paston mss., B.M.] This letter is not addressed, but seems undoubtedly 
to have been intended for the writer's husband. The attack upon the lodge at 
Hellesden here referred to was in 1465, as appears by the letter immediately following. 

2 'Nonvich.' — This word is interlined, the writer having originally written 'this 
town,' and afterwards struck out the word * town.' 

204 



EDWARD IV 

myght come down a writ to remeve hym if ye thynk it be to 1465 
do. He was not with me not save that Harleston and other oct. 17 
mad the assaught up on me and Lammesse ; he is right good 
and feythfuU on to you, and therfore I wuld he had help. I 
have non man at this tyme to avayte upon me that dare be 
avowyd but Litill John. William Nawton is here with me, 
but he dare not ben avowyd, for he is sore thret. It is told 
me the old Lady and the Duke is set fervently ageyn us be 
the enformacion of Harlesdon, the Bayly of Cossey and 
Andrewys and Doget the balys sone, and suych other fals 
shrewys the which wuld have thes mater born ought for ther 
owyn pleser ; the which causith an ^ evyll noyse in this centre 
and other places. And as for Sir John Hevenyngham, Sir 
John Wyndefeld and other wurchepfuU men ben mad but her 
doggeboldes ; ^ the whiche I suppose wull turne hem to dis- 
wurchep here after. I spake with Sir John Hevenyngham 
and enformed hym with the trough of the mater, and of all 
owyr demenyng at Drayton, and he seid he wuld that all 
thyng wer wele, and that he wuld enforme my lord as I seid 
to hym, but Harleston had all the words and the rewle with 
the Duke here, and after his avyse and Doctor Aleynes he was 
avysed here at this tyme. 

The logge and the remenaunte of your place was betyn 
down on Tuesday and Wednesday, and the Duke rode on 
Wednysday to Drayton and so for to Cossey whille the logge 
at Heylesdon was in the betyng down. And this nyght at 
mydnyght Thomas Sleyforth, Grene Porter, and Joh. Botes- 
forth the Baly of Eye, and other, had a cart and fetched 
awey fetherbeddes, and all the stufFe that was left at the 
parsones, and Thom Wateres hows to be kept of owrs. I 
shall send you billes er after, as ner as I may, what stufFe we 
have forborn. I pray you send me word how ye will that I 
be demened, wheder ye wull that [1]^ abide at Cayster or 

1 an — &, MS. 

2 The old word ' dogbolt ' seems to have meant a servile follower, or one bound 
to wait the commands of another. Thus in Lilly's Tragicall Comedie of Alexander 
and Campaspe, where Manes complains that he serves a master whose house is a tub, 
Granichus remarks 'That Diogenes that dog should have Manes that dogbolt it 
grieveth nature and spiteth art.' ^ Omitted in MS. 

205 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1465 come to you to London. I have no leyser to write more. 
OCT. 17 God have yow in His kepyng. Wretyn at Norwich on Sent 
Lukes Evyn. M. P. 



617 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON 1 

I0 my ryght wyrshypfull hoshond^ John Paston^ 
be thys delyveryd in hast. 

OCT. 27 Tpv YGHT wyrshypfull hosbond, I recomand me to you. 
f^ Please it you to wyte that I was at Haylesden uppon 
-*- ^ Thersday laste passyd, and sey the place ther, and 
in gode feyth ther wyll no cryatur thynke how fowle and 
orubelly it ys arayed but yf they sey it. Ther comyth moch 
pepyll dayly to wonder ther uppon, both of Norwych and of 
other placys, and they speke shamfully therof. The Duck 
had be beter then a m^.li. that it had never be don ; and ye 
have the more gode wyll of the pepyll that it ys so foylle don. 
And they made youre tenauntys of Haylesdon and Drayton, 
with other, to help to breke down the wallys of the place and 
the logge both, — God knowyth full evyll ayenst ther wyllys, 
but that they derst no notherwysse don for ferre. I have 
spoken with your tenauntys of Haylesdon and Drayton both, 
and putte hem in comfort as well as I canne. The Duck ys 
men rensackyd the church, and bare a way all the gode that 
was lefte ther, both of ours and of the tenaunts, and lefte not 
so moch but that they stode uppon the hey awter, and ran- 
sackyd the images, and toke a way such as they myght fynd, 
and put a way the parson owte of the church till they had 
don, and ransackyd every mans hous in the towne v. or vj. 
tymys. And the chyff maysters of robbyng was the Baylly of 
Ey, the Baylly of Stradbroke, Thomas Slyford, and Porter ; 
and Slyford was the chyfF robber of the cherch, and he hath 

1 [From Fenn, iv. 226.] The Eve of St. Simon and Jude is the 27th October. 
It fell on Sunday in the year 1465. 

206 



EDWARD IV 

most of the robbery next the Baylly of Ey. And as for lede, 1465 
bras, pewter, yren, dorys, gatys, and other stuffe of the hous, oct. 27 
men of Coshay and Causton have it, and that thay myght not 
cary, thay have hewen it a sender in the most dysspytuose 
wyse. Yf it myght be, I wold som men of wyrshop myght 
be send from the Kyng to see how it ys both ther and at the 
logge, or than any snowys ^ com, that they may make report of 
the troth, ellys it shall not mo be seyn so playnly as it may now. 

And at the reverens of God, spyde your maters nowe, for 
it ys to orybell a cost and trobell that we have now dayly, and 
most have tyll it be other wyse ; and your men dar not goo 
abowte to geder uppe your lyfflode, and we kype here dayly 
more than xxx. persons for savacyon of us and the place, for, 
in very trowght, and the place had not be kypyd strong, the 
Duck had come hether. Arblaster thynketh verely that Hugh 
a Fen may do moch in your maters, and he thynkyth that he 
wole do for you faythfully, yf ye wyll, &c. 

At the reverens of God, yf any wyrshypfuU and profetabile 
mene may be take yn your maters, for sake it not in eschuyng 
of our trobell and gret costs and charges that we have, and 
may growe here after. It ys thoght here that yf my Lord 
of Norffolk wolld take uppon hym for you, and that he may 
have a comyssyon for to enquer of such ryotts and robberyes 
as hath be don to you and other in thys contray, that then all 
the contray wyll a wayte uppon hym, and serve your entent ; 
for the pepyll lovyth and dredyth hym more then any other 
lord except the Kyng and my Lord of Warwyk, &c. 

God have you in Hys kypyng, and send ous gode tydyngs 
from you. Wryten in haste, uppon the Sonday Seynt Symon 
and Jude ys Evyn. 

By yours, M. P. 

* Fenn remarks that if we may judge trom the mention of snow in this place, the 
winters began earlier in those days than they do now. But perhaps Margaret was 
only urging the necessity of timely action, taking into consideration the ordinary- 
delays of suitors. We have seen, however, from Letter 609 that in the year 1465 
there must have been unusually cold weather even in the beginning of September. 



207 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

6i8 

MESSAGE TO SIR WILLIAM YELVERTON i 
This is the Instruccion for the Messenger. 

THAT ye grete well Sir William Yelverton, letyng 
hym wete in our behalf we be informed that certeyn 
persones, in the name of the right worshipfull our 
cosyn the Due of Suffolk, have enterid in the manoir of 
Drayton that was FastoliFes, and have dreven from the seid 
manoir and other xiij'"' shep and other bestes pastured upon 
the seid manoir. Notwithstandyng, we merveyle gretly that 
the seid Sir William, his sones and servauntes, as it is seid, 
assiste and comfort the seid persones so entryng and with- 
drawyng the seid catell, seying that he is named both fefFe and 
executour. And all be it so that there is variaunce bithwene 
hym and our welbelovid John Paston in our coort, consernyng 
as well the seid manoirs as other goodes that were Sir John 
Fastolffes, whom God assoyle, yit is may not acorde with 
worship and consiens for the seid Sir William to assiste the 
distruccion of the seid manoirs and goodes in the meane tyme. 
Wherfore we desire hym that he woll do his devoir effect- 
ually to help to save the seid manoirs from all such pretense 
of titell, and to cause the seid catels to be restored to the 
manoirs aforeseid, and not to be withdrawen and distroyed 
as they be ; and that he do his feithfull part in this behalf 
acordyng to the trust that he was put in, as we may do for 
hym in tyme to come. 

^ [From Paston mss., B.M.] This appears to be a message from the King 
rebuking Judge Yelverton for partisanship in assisting the Duke of Suffolk against 
Paston in his entry into the manor of Drayton. The date is therefore 1465. The 
MS., however, is only a corrected draft, and it is not certain that such a message was 
actually sent. 



208 



EDWARD IV 



619 

JOHN WYMONDHAM TO JOHN PASTONi 

1^0 my worchipful cosyn^ John Paston. 

RYGTH worchipful cosyn, I comaunde me to yow. And 1465(0 
forasmoch as ther was a child ded at Asteles, and on ^^^' *° 
other lik to be ded in the same place, what tyme that 
I rode oute aboute my litil livelod, my lady and I bothe 
thoughte pite on my mastres your wif to se her abide ther, 
and desirid here to com to my pore hous on to soch tyme as ye 
shuld a be othirwise avised, wyche, if it plese yow, I am right 
wel apaied. 

Sythen, I undirstande be my lady that ye desire to knowe 
whedyr that I shulde abide here stille or nowe [or nol. As to 
that, I have non other place that I wold abide at, and my lady 
seith how she is avised to ende hir lif here. Also she seith 
how ye desire to have a stabil with inne my plas ; and as to 
that, afeith, sir, I have none, but that must nedis serve for my 
wode. As for a chambre, ye shall have on for your men al 
redy, and as touching a stabil. Sir John Sparham and I have 
gote yow on ther [where] your hors stode the last tyme ye 

* [From Fenn, iv. 240.] As to the date of this letter, we can only reproduce 
what is said of it by Sir John Fenn : * John Wyraondham, Esq., the writer of this 
letter, married Margery, the daughter of Sir Robert Clifton, Knight, of Denver, in 
Norfolk, and widow of Sir Edward Hastings, of Elsing, Knight. He therefore calls 
her " My Lady." He died in 1475. 

* He purchased the manor and estate at Felbrigg, of the trustees of Sir Simon 
Felbrigg, where he had resided ; but once in his absence Sir John Felbrigg made a 
forcible entry, and dragging out his Lady by the hair of her head, who had locked 
herself up in a chamber to keep possession, got into possession, and retained it till 
Wymondham obtained the King's order to Thomas Montgomery, Esq., High Sheriff 
of the county, to put him again into possession. The dispute was then settled with 
Sir John Felbrigg, and upon Wymondham's paying to him 200 marks [jQiZi ' ^ '-^li 
he released his claims, &c. 

* This letter seems to have been written during the time that he was dispossessed 
of Felbrigg, and which must have been either before the year 1461 or 1466, those 
being the years in which Sir Thomas Montgomery was Sheriff of Norfolk, and as 
J. Paston at this time seems to have been under misfortunes, it was probably near 
the latter year. I have therefore ventured, though doubtfully, to date the letter in 
1465.' 

VOL. IV. O 209 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

I465(?) were in this town, and an hows to ley inne hey and straw, and 
NOV. lo cost yow not but making of a rak and a mangeour, and more 
to your ease there than here ; and yf ye wyl that it be made 
redy for yow, send werd be the bringer of this letter. And, 
cosyn, as towching to paiment, I can not sey how ye shal be 
pleasid with my pore fare, but aftir that ye arn com home, and 
arn aqweintid there with, we shal so acorde as shal be plesir to 
us bothe, with the grace of God, which have [you] in His 
blissid governaunce, and send yow your moderis blissing. 
Wreten at Norwich, on Seint Martyn is Even. 
Your poer cosyn and fFrend, 

J. Wymondham. 

And how that ever ye do, hold up your manship. 

620 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON 1 

To my Rightwurshipfull hosbond^ John Paston^ 
be this delyveryd in hast. 

1 44 1- ff ^ IHT worchipfull hosbond, I recomand me to yow, 
6^ rV praying yow to wete that I have receyvid the mony 
NOV. -■- ^ that Mayster Brakle had of yow, wherof he hath ageyn 
v. marc, uppon pledgis of the too basonys that ye had of hym 
tyll ye come hom. As for cloth for my gowne, I can non 
gete in this town better than that is that I send yow an 
exsample of, whiche me thynkith to symple bothe of colour 
and of cloth. Wherfor I pray yow that ye woll vouchesauf 
to do bey for me iij. yerdis and j. quarter of seche as it 
pleasith yow that I shuld have, and what colour that pleaset 
yow, for in gode feyth I have do sowte all the draperis schopis 
in this town, and her is right febill cheys. Also I pray yow 
that ye woll do bey a lofF of gode sugour and di. j. lb. [half 
one pound'\ of holl synamun, for ther is non gode in this town ; 

^ [Add. MS. 33,597, f. 2.] The year in which this letter was written is altogether 
uncertain. 
210 



EDWARD IV 

and as for mony, ther is non of your tenantis ne fermouris 1441- 
bryngith non as yett. As for tydyngis in this countre, Herry 6^ 
Ingloses men have slayn ij. men of Tonsted on Thursday last ^ov. 
past, as it is seyd, and all that countre is sore trobelid ther- 
with ; and if he had abedyn at home he had be lyke to have 
be fechid owte of his owyn hows, for the peple ther abowght 
is sor meved with hym. And on Saterday last past he come 
ryding thorow this town toward Framyngham ; and if he had 
abedyn in this town he shuld have ben arestyd ; for men of 
Tonsted and of the countre pusewid after hym in to this town, 
and made agrett noyse of hym, and required the mayre and 
sheryves that he ne his men shuld not pas the town, but that 
they shuld do as it longed to here parte to do, and told hem 
the cause why ; and as it is seyd the sergeantis were fals, and 
lete hym have knowleche ther of, and he hythid hym hens in 
hast, &c. The blyssyd Trynyte have yow in His keping. 
Wreten att Norwyche on the Weddenesday next after Seynt 
Martyn. — Be yowris, M. P. 

621 
NOTE 

The letter of John Payn to John Paston (No. 126 in vol. ii.), which, on 
account of the circumstances to which it refers, we have placed in the year 
1450, was written, as appears by the contents, fifteen years later, i.e. in 1465. 
We therefore call the reader's attention to it in this place. 

622 
FUNERAL OF LADY KATHARINE HOWARD 1 

THIS wrytenge, made at Stokeneylond the v^'' yer of 1465 
Kynge Edward the iiii'^ and the morowe next afiter 
Sowlemesse day, wytnesseth that this day and yer a 
bove said my lady, dame Kateren Howard, departed to God, 

1 [Add. MS. 34,889, f. 38.] 'Soulmas,' or All Souls' Day, is the 2nd November, 
and it appears that Lady Katharine died on the morrow of that day in 1465. As 
these expenses run into December, we place them at the end of the year. 

211 



THE PASTON LETTERS 



iij/r 



1465 and my master spent uppon her at this day a bove wreten at 
her beryinge, and also at her vij*'' day, more than xxli. 

Also my master spent uppon her at her 
xxx'* day, in almesse and in odre costes, in 
primis to v.m'. and ccc. of pore folke every 
pece takenge id. Summa 

Item, my master gaff to vi",ix. prestes and 
clerkes every pece vj^. Summa 

Item, my master gaff to Ixviii. cheldren in 
the quere every pece ii^. Summa 

Item, my master paid for blakke cloth for 
gownes for his men vij" yerdes prise of every 
yerde ms. iin^i. Summa 

Item, my master bout as myche waxe for 
torches and taprys as cost hym . viij. markis. iijj. i]d. 

Item, my master paid for xiij. pore mennes 
gownes for the clothe and for the makengs 

Item, my master spent in all maner of spyces 
as myche as drew .... 

Item, my master spent in wyne at the said 
day ...... 

Item, my master spent in maltt for brewenge 

Item, my master spent in here at the same 
day 

Item, my master spent in whete to make 



brede and odre bakenge 

Item, my master spent at 
brawne 

Item, in beff 

Item, in moton 

Item, in porke 

Item, in pygges 

Item, in swannes 

Item, in geese 

Item, in conyis 

Item, in capons 

Item, in chekens 

Item, in venyson 
212 



the said day in 



xxij//. vs. 

iiijj. vjV. 

xs. iiij^. 

xxj//. 



lijj. 

liijj. x]d. 

iij. pypes. 
viij, seme. 

xxxij. barelles. 



xiij. 



seme. 



ij. gret bores. 

xij. gret oxsen. 

xl. shepe. 

xij. hogges. 

Ixx. 

iiij*''. 

c. cowple. 

xxiiij. 

vij". 
xxx. dois. 



EDWARD IV 



Item, in pertryches 
Item, in fesauntis . 
Item, in pekokkes 
Item, in mallardes 
Item, in plovers 
Item, in eggis 
Item, in mylke 
Item, in hony 



iiij. doseyn. 1465 
xiv. 

iij. doseyn. 

iij. doseyn. 

viij. C. 

XXX. galons. 

iij. galons. 



623 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON 
THE YOUNGER 1 

To John Paston the younger. 

1GRETE you wele, letyng you wete that as for ^ your Before 
sustrys^ beyng with my Lady, if your fader wuU aggrey 1466 
therto I hold me right wele pleasyd ; for I wuld be right 
clad that she shuld do her scrvyse be for any other, if she cowde 
do that shuld pleas my ladyes good grace, Wherfor I wuld 
that ye shuld speke to your fader therof and lete hym wete that 
I am pleasid that she shuld be ther if he wuld, for I wuld be 
right glad and she myght be preferrid by mariage or be servyce, 
so that it myght be to her wurchep and profight in dischargyng 
of her frendis ; and I pray you do your parte therin for your 
owyn wurchep and herys. And assone as ye may with ought 
daunger, purvey that I may have ageyn the vj. marks that ye 
wote of, for I wuld not that your fader wust it. Item, if ye 
pas London, send me ageyn my chene and the litill chene that 
I lent you be for, be sum trusty person ; and if ye wull have 
my good wille, eschewe such thyngis as I spake to you of last 

1 [Add. MS. 34,889, f. 208.] This letter was written at a time when John Paston, 
the writer's husband, and one of his sons, was in London, while the other, to whom 
this letter is addressed, was going thither. The date must therefore be before May 
1466, but what particular year or month it is impossible to say. 

^ ' afFor,' MS. 

3 This may be either Anne or Margery Paston. Who * my lady ' was does not 
appear. 

213 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

Before in owr parisch chirch. I pray God make you as good a man 
1466 as ever was any of your kynne, and Goddis blissyng mote ye 
have and myn, so that ye do wele, &c. Wretyn the Sonday 
next after your departyng. 

And I pray you, send me sum tydyngis as sone as ye may 
after that ye be comyn to London, how your fader spedyth and 
your brother in here materes. 

Be your moder. 



624 

JOHN RADCLIFF OF ATTLEBOROUGH TO 

JOHN PASTON 1 

jTo my ryght trusty and welbelovyd Frend^ John Paston. 

RYGTH trusty and welbelovid, I cummaund me un to 
zow, lattyng zow wytte that there ys a tenawnt off 
Thyrnyng, on \one] Wyllyam Rust, whos dur ys selyd 
be a offycer off zowrys. Wherffor I pray zow that ze wyll se 
that the forsay tenawnt be not hurt ; and yff there be oni thyng 
that ys dw for to pay, I wyll se that hyt schall be content. And 
therfore I pray zow that hyt may be repytyd un tyll the tyme 
that I speke with zow. No more at thys tyme, but the Hole 
Trinite hawe zow in kepyng. Wretyn at Attylburgth the xvij. 
day off Dysscmbyre. 

John Radclyff De Attylburgth. 

^ [Add. MS. 34,889, f. 223.] The principal lordship in the manor of Thuming 
belonged to the Radcliff, or Ratcliff, family, afterwards Earls of Sussex ; but it seems 
there was another lordship which belonged to John de Mauteby in the ninth year of 
Edward 11. From this very likely Margaret Paston derived some claims, and John 
Paston through his wife. See No. 634. The year of this letter, however, cannot be 
ascertained. 



214 



EDWARD IV 

625 

SIR JOHN FELBRIGGE TO JOHN PASTON^ 

*To my Cosyn Paston, be thys letter delyverd 
yn haste. 

RYGHT reverent and worshyppeful cosyn, y comawnd I466(?) 
me on to you, desyryng to her off your welfare, the jan. [20] 
whyche Almyghty Jesu preserve to Hys plesawns, and 
to your own herts desyres. Forthermore and yfF yt please 
your gentylnesse to be my trusty frend, as my ful truste ys yn 
you, as for swyche materys as the brynger off this lettre shall 
enforme you, and beth effectualy my frend, and brynge yt 
abowte, and by my trowthe y shall geve you an C. marke for 
your labowr. For yn trowthe y am aferde that Roberd Rad- 
clyff hathe deseyvyd me, for he laboryd to me dayly by my 
Lords comawndement off Warwyk, and brought with hym 
YUyngworthe and oder off my Lords cownsel, and seen my 
evydens ; and so we stoden uppon apoyntement, and y for to 
have had an unswere sent to Felbrygge Halle, and yff ne had 
be for ffendyng off my Lords lordschyppe, y myght have had 
my money for my ryght or y cam owt off London, as my man 
schall enforme you. For yn trowthe y muste now make an 
schiffte, for Wyndham hathe sold hys ryght, and rathere than 
yt schuld go that way to, y had lever my Lord had yt ij. C. 
marke with yn the pryse that y grawnt yt laste, and therfor y 
be scheche you to labowr to my Lord that y may have an 
unswer. And thies many townes longithe thereto, Felbrygge, 
Aylinton, Ronton, Colby, Bannyngham, Ingworthe, Styrston, 
besyde hamelets. 

No mor to you at this tyme, but the Holy Trinyte have 

* [From Fenn, iv. 242.] The date of this letter cannot be ascertained with very 
great precision ; but as it belongs most probably to about the same period as Letter 
619, which we have referred to November 1465, we may assign this to the January 
following. 

215 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

i466(?) you yn His kepyng. Wryten at Felbrygg, the Monday affbr 
JAN. [20] Seynt Augnetes Day.^ 

By your cosyn, John Felbrygge. 

626 

JOHN WYKES TO SIR JOHN PASTON 2 

Un to the ryght wyrshypfull mayster. Sir John Paston, Knygt, 
he thys letter delyveryd. 

1466 I '% YGHT wyrshypfull and my especyall gode mayster, I 
FEB. 17 1-^ recomaund me unto your gode maystershyp, letyng 
you wyte that the berour herof told me that ye had 
grete mervyll that I send to you no word ne letter of awnswer 
of the letters that ye had send to me to London. As for on 
letter ye send to me by Rychard Playtorys man, and therof I 
send you an awnswer in a letter by a man of the Prior of 
Bromholm ; and as for other letters, ther com no more to me 
but that on. 

Item, Mayster Flemmyng lokyth dayly for hys hors, and at 
every tyme that I mete with hym, he askyth of me when hys 
hors shuld com, and when I here any word from you. Wher- 
fore I pray you send me word in a letter how he shall be 
awnswerd, and yf the hors shall com, lette me knowe when ; 
for and he had not trusty d theruppon, he wold have purveyd 
hym in a nother place, &c. 

Item, John Oter ys not yet payd, but as I suppose it shall 

* The modem version in Fenn reads * the Monday after Saint Agnes's Day,' and 
the date subjoined at the bottom of the page is in accordance with this reading. But 
it is more likely the text as printed in the old spelling is correct. St. Agnes' Day is 
the 2ist January. The Monday before it would have been the 20th in 1466. 

' [From Fenn, iv. 246.] As this letter was written after Edward iv.'s marriage, 
and before the death of John Paston the father, the date must be either 1465 or 1466. 
Fenn assigns it to the latter year,^and I think he is right, though he does not state his 
reasons. I find that John, Lord Lovel, died on the 9th January 1465, leaving his son 
and heir, Francis, only nine years old, so that even if we date this letter 1466, the 
young lad was married at the early age of ten. This was probably owing to his 
wardship having been obtained by Lord Fitzhugh, or some person interested ; but as 
the inquisition on his father's death (Inq.p.m.,^ Edw. iv., No. 27) was not taken till 
October 1465, there seems no groimd for believing that he could have been forced 
into wedlock a month after he was left an orphan. 

216 



EDWARD IV 

not be long to tyll he have it, for he hath spoken to my mayster 1466 
your fader a yer therfor ; and as for Gylmyn, he hath not spoken ^^b. i 7 
to my mayster as yet, &c. 

Item, I truste he wylbe your gode fader, for John Say hath 
told hym playnly of hys demenyng ayenst you, and told hym 
that he had the lasse favour for your sake, &:c. 

Item, the Erie of Arundell ys ^ son hath v/eddyd the Quyne 
ys suster. 

Item, the Lord Lovell ys son^ hath weddyd my Lady 
Fytzhugh ys doghter, &c. 

Item, Jenney desyryth a trety with my mayster, and spake 
to my mayster therof hym sylf in Westminster Hall. 

Item, all felaws in the Kyngs hows fareid well, and wold 
have you ther. 

No more to you at thys tyme, but the Holy Trynyte have 
you [in] kepyng. Wryten at London, the Monday next after 
Seynt Volentyn. 

Your servant, John Wykys. 

627 

CLEMENT PASTON TO JOHN PASTON^ 

To hys rythe worchypfwU mayster, John Pastofiy Sqwyer. 

RYTHE worchypfwU broder, I recomawnde me to zow. march 18 
And as for zour letter to my Lorde Chawnceler I have 
not delyveryd it ; for I askyd avysse there in, and I 
was aunsweryd there in that sythen he was takyn to baylle, the 
Chawncelerer * cowde not compelle the swertes to bryng hym in 

1 Thomas Fitz Alan, Lord Maltravers, eldest son of William Fitz Alan, Earl of 
Arundel, married Margaret, second daughter of Richard Widville, Earl Rivers, and 
sister to Elizabeth, Queen of Edward iv. He succeeded his father as Earl of Arundel 
in 1487, 3 Hen. vii., and died in 1524, 16 Hen, viii. — F. 

2 Francis Lovel, son and heir to John, Lord Lovel, married Anne, daughter of 
Henry, Lord Fitz Hugh. It is curious that she is here called ' Lady Fitz Hughes 
daughter,' when her father was alive, 

3 [From Paston Letters, B.M,] The reference to the dispute between Elizabeth 
Poynings and the Earl of Kent, which is alluded to in a subsequent letter, proves this 
letter to have been written in the year 1466, The earl in question was only so created 
on the 3rd of May 1465, and John Paston, to whom the letter is addressed, died in 
May 1466. * So in ms, 

217 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1466 befor hys day. Also me thowte zour letter was not most 
MARCH 18 plesauntly wrytyn to take to swyche a lorde. And as for the 
tresorer, hys name is Sir John Fooge, but he is not in London 
nor wythe the Kyng, so I kan [not] have the letter sent hym 
but if I hyeryd a man to bere it. And as for zour question of 
the patentes, Grenfeld and Catesby and Sterkey holdyn it a 
good question, for the statute is, Patentes dez tenements dount 
null titill est trouve pur le roy de recorde sount voydez^ anno xviij. 
H. VI. ca. vj. But I trowe in zour cas that be ther opiniounis 
the Acte of the Parlement is a tytyll of recorde. It is said to 
the contrary intent, thow the londs be forfetyd of record, yet 
ther is no certificacion of recorde qwat londes they be, nor wer 
[w/iere~\ nor in qwat place they lye ; but and thys clawse be in 
the patents, Non obstante quod nulla inquisicio pro nobis inde est 
inventa, by Grenfelde is consayle the patents xwld be clerly 
goode. But me semythe that amendyt not the mater, for be 
for the makyng of the statute above sayde, patents graunttyd 
of londs be fore inquisicion were goode and effectuell and the 
statute is generall : — Patents dount null tytill^ ^c. sount voydez. 
Thanne it folowyt well if the Acte of Parlement be no tytyll 
for the Kyng thann is ther no tytyll for the Kyng of recorde, 
for that clawse in the patente is no tytyll ; than if ther [be] no 
tytyll, ergo the patents voyde. 

My suster ^ standythe in the same casse with my Lord of 
Kent. 

Broder, I pray zow send mor mony for my nevew John, 
for he mwst ellys com hom azen ; for the Kyng gothe into 
Scotlonde, and he is nowther horsyd nor harneysyd, for his 
grett hors is lykly to dye ; and if ze wyll sende it to me or to 
Christofyr Hanyngton it xall be save for hym. I send zow a 
letter from hym closyde herin. And I pray spek to my moder 
that my hors faylle not on Passyon Swnday,^ for thann xall I 
be redy and thanne xall ower redyng be don. Wrytyn on 
. Twesday nexst after Seynt Gregory is Day. Zowr broder, 

Clement Paston. 

On the back. — The man wold not tak my letter but I wass fayen to gyve 
hym ijd. for the beryng. 

^ Elizabeth, widow of Robert Poynings. ' 23rd March. 

218 



EDWARD IV 

628 

FRIAR JOHN MOWTH TO JOHN PASTON^ 

To my worchepful mayster^ John Paston the holdest, 
be this letter delyveryd in hast. 

RYTH reverent and worchepful sire, I hartyly recomende 1466 
me on to your reverens, thankyng yow for the gret "ay 12 
cher and comfortabyll words that ye yovyn on to me 
wat tyme that I was last yn yowr presens ; desyryng ful 
specyaly of Almity God, owt of al your wordly tribulacyonys 
and adversyte, gracyowus delyverans, and yn al vertuows 
prosperite, good encres and contynuans. If yt like your 
maysterchep to know the cause of this wrytyng, it ys thys ; 
it is nowth unknow ^ on to yow that Mayster Brakle (Cryst 
rest hys sowle !), delyveryd to Wyllam Paston, your broder, 
certayn oblygacyonys, of the weche the dute xuld gfow to my 
convent yn Norwyche. I have spoke on to Wyllam Paston 
her of, and he excuseth hym and seyth on this wyse ; that 
be the wyl of Mayster Brakle, wat tyme that Sire Tomas 
Todenham,^ Knyth, xuld be put on to hys deth, he delyveryd 
hem on to hys confessor ; the weche, as he seth, xuld a be 
Grey fryer, hows name he knowyth nowt ; also he seyth that 
after the deth of the forseyd Knyt, he spake with the Fryer, 
confessor on to the Knyth, and hasked hym aftyr the forseyd 
oblygacyonys, and as he seyth, the Fryer seyd on to hym that 
he had delyveryd hem on to [the] Knyth Marchall. Werfor 
I beseche you, as specyaly as I may, that, now wyl your broder 
is at London, that ye of your grace wyl know the trowthe in 
this mater, for the comfort of the dede, and profyth of my 

1 [From Fenn, i. 256.] Friar Brackley, who is here mentioned as dead, is spoken 
of in John Paston's deposition of December 1465, without any indication that he was 
at that time deceased {see No. 606), We may presume, therefore, that he died 
between that time and May 1466, in which month and year died John Paston, to 
whom this letter is addressed. 

* N(ywth unkn<yw. I believe this to be the true reading of the original MS. Fenn 
prints it ' nowthn know.' 

' He was beheaded on Tower Hill in February 1462. 

219 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1466 convent. Nomor at this tyme, but that I be seche Almyty 
MAY 12 God in Trinyte conserve your, and kepe yow in all vertuows 
prosperite. Amen. 

Wretyn at Heylysdon in gret hast, the xij. day of May, in 
your maner aftyr mete. The cause wy the mayster delyveryd 
hem to hym mor than to yow, was, as he seyd on to me, for 
as meche as ye had so many maters yn hand for yowr self, and 
also for the dede, that he durst not attempt yow with all ; and 
al so be cause he had lesse for to do hys hope was that he xuld 
asped yt mor redyly. 

Fr[e]re Willam Thorp dwellyng at Salisbury. 
By yowr pore orator and bedman. 

Frier Jan Mowth. 



629 

MARGARET PASTON TO SIR JOHN PASTON 1 

i:\.66Q) IT GRETE you wele and send you Goddis blissyng and 
NOT. i3(.) I rnyn ; letyng you wete that I send you be the berer 
herof xUi. of Ryall which I have chevysshed and borwed 
for you, be cause I wuld not take that was leyd ought for you 
at Norwich ; for, as I am enformed be Mayster John Smyth, 
the Chaunceller, and other that we ben all a cursed that we 
have thus mynystred the dedis godes with ought licence or 
auctorite, and I wene we spede all the wers there fore. At 
the reverence of God, gete you a licens of my Lord of Caunter- 
bery in dyschargyng of my conscyens and yowris, to mynystre 
a certeyn summe of iij. or iiij*^ marcs, enfourmyng hym how 
that your lyifelod hath stond this ij. yer in such trobill that ye 
myght right nought have of it, ner yet can take of it with 
ought ye shuld hurt your tenauntis, thei have so ben vexid be 
on trew meanes before this tymes. And ye have many grete 

^ [Add. MS. 34,889, f. 99.] This letter was written before administration had 
been obtained of John Paston's will ; presumably therefore in the year in which he 
died, 1466. It may be observed, likewise, that in 1467 'my lord of Canterbury' 
would probably have been called ' my lord Cardinal.' 

220 



EDWARD IV 

materis on hand and may not have to here them ought, ner to I466(?) 
save your ryght, withaught ye myght for a tyme takyn of your nov. i3(?) 
faderis godes. And this I hope shall discharge owr conscyens 
of that we have mynystred and spend be fore. For we have 
nomor to acquite this xl//. and here all other charges but the 
xlvii//. that your unkyll and ye is privy to, that was leyd up 
at Norwich. I wuld ye were ware of large theftis and rewardis 
gevyng, as otheris folkis avyse you to do, for though ye have 
nede thei wull not be right redy to help you of ther owyn ; 
and that ye may understand be that that thei have taken a wey 
from you be for this tyme. I wuld not in no wyse ye shuld 
put your self in no daunger to hym but as litill as ye may ; 
for if ye do, it shall be right wele remembred you her after. 
And be ware how ye ben bownd in any obligacion to any 
creature but if it be leyd in endifFerent handis and trosty for 
yowr part. And remembre to gete the obligacion that ye mad 
to the Duchesse of Suffolk ; for though it be in my Lord 
Chancelleris hande it is jepartows, be cause of perell of deth. 
Item, understand wele the poyntis that ben in my cosyn 
Arblasteris letter that arn wretyn in yowrs, and purvey redily 
ther for for your owyn a vayll. Item, send me home answeris 
of sueche materis as arn now sent you bethen (sic) mowth and 
wrytyng at this tyme as hastly as ye can, or ells it shall hurt 
yow mor than ye or I can yet understand. Item, me semyth, 
if ye shall not comyn home this Crystmesse, or if ye shuld be 
at my Lady of Suffolk, it [were ^] necessary to have Playter 
there with you if ye shuld engroos any appoyntementis with 
here at that tyme. For she is sotill and hath sotill councell 
with here ; and therfore it were wele do ye shuld have summe 
with you that shuld be of your councell. If John Paston be 
with you at London desire hym to take hede to yowris materis 
and in what case thei ben left at your departyng, that if nede 
be he may help you to labore for such causes as Wykes shall 
telle yow be mowth ; and if he be not with yow, and ye wull 
I shall send hym to you. Item, spare of ^ the xl//. as mych as 
ye may that ye may perfourme by the mony that the Duchesse 
of Suffolk shuld have, in cas that it may not be gadered of the 

* Omitted in ms. * o/" repeated in MS. 

221 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

I466(?) lyvelode. Send home Wykes a sone as ye can, and how ye 

NOV. 1 3(?) will that I do in your materis and lyvelode at home. God 

have you in His kepyng. Wretyn the Thursday next Sent 



Martyn. 



Be your Moder. 



630 



MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON 1 

To my right wurchipfull husbond, John Paston^ be this 
deliverd in hast. 

Year ■ *% YTH worchepfuU husbonde, I recomande me to yow. 

uncer- r% Plesyth yow to weet that Thomas Grene was with me 

tain as on Saterday last paste, and let me have knowlage 

NOV. that the scherre schold be as thys day at the Gyld Hall in 

Norwyche, and be desyiryd me that the swte that ye have 

ageyns Thomas Jeryng and othyr myth be sesyd as for thys 

schere ; and I seyd that I durste do ryth not there in. And 

he tolde me that Thomas Jeryng was with yow in Flegge the 

laste tyme that ye wer ther, and ye seyd to hym that he 

scholde not be hurte by the swte. And Thomas Grene told 

me that if the seyd Jeryng and othyrs in the same wryte mad 

not an end with yow by the nexte schere, the whyche schall 

be thys day monyth, that he the seyd Thomas Grene wole 

purchese a new wryte of hys owne coste ayens that daye. I 

1 [From Paston Mss., B.M.] I find no very satisfactory evidence touching the 
date of this letter. Allusion is made to John Paston having been at Lincoln. The 
occasion referred to might have been in 1458, when, as we know by No. 373, he went 
into the North as far as Doncaster; or it may have been in the spring of 146 1. {See 
Nos. 452 and 458.) It is not probable, however, that this letter was earlier than the 
latter date, as there is no appearance at that time of any dispute having arisen between 
John Paston and his brother William. On the contrary, William Paston is in corre- 
spondence with his brother in April 1461 (No. 450). On the other hand, if the 
occasion referred to when John Paston was at Lincoln was in the spring of 146 1, this 
letter could hardly have been written in the same year j for it cannot be supposed that 
he left books at Caister on his return south, when Caister was in the possession of the 
Duke of Norfolk. The date, however, being so uncertain, I prefer to place this letter 
at the end of John Paston's correspondence rather than assign it doubtfully to any 
particular year. 

222 



EDWARD IV 

woste not that the scher shuld be so sone when I wrote to yow Year 
yowyr laste lettyr. And he remembyryd the trobulus werd uncer- 
[world'j that is nowe, and also that they wer nowtye felawys tain 
that ye suyd, and ther fore he thowte that it war best to let it nov. 
be respyte at thys tyme, and so they schall be respyth at thys 
tyme. I have sent to Jaferay Spyrlyng for the bokys that ye 
sent to me fore, and he seyth that he hathe none there of, for 
he seyth he lefte hem with yow when he was with yow in the 
Northe contre ; for he seyth ye left hym behynd yow at 
Lynkcolne. He supposyth they be at Kaster. 

Item, my cosyn Crane recomandyth hyr to yow, and 
prayith yow that ye wole wychesave to spek to Jamys Gresham 
for to swe ferthe the mater betwyx Dame Margaret Spurdans 
and hyr ; and sche prayith yow at the reverens of God that ye 
wole tendyr that mater well, for all hyr troste is in yow. 

Item, the tenauntys at Sweynysthorp prayid me for to 
wryte to yow for to pray yow for Goddys sake that ye wole 
help for to get hem a good baly of the hundyryd that they be 
in ; for they sey that they have be gretly hurte by swyche 
offyserys as they have had ther be fore tyme. Folk wold 
fayne in thys contre that Heydon scholde be purveyd for, that 
he goo not so at large as he dothe, for he is in thys towne nere 
every wek, and hathe be ever syne ye yd hens. And also it 
is seyd in thys towne that ye have be good maister thys terme 
to Yatys, and many be ryth sory ther of, and that he dothe 
so well as it [is] seyd here that he dothe. It is seyd that he 
is scapyd all dangerys, and he hathe tak new accionys ageyns 
hys neyborys, as it is seyd. Othyr tydyngys have we none 
here but that ye have more pleynly there. And the Blyssyd 
Trinyte have yow in Hys kepyng, and send yow good sped in 
all yowyr materys. Wretyn in haste at Norwyche the Monday 
next be fore Seynt Edmunde the Kynge. 

Be yowyr, M. P. 

My modyr wold ryth fayne know how that ye and my 
brodyr Wyllam wer acordyd, sche wold ryth fayne that all 
wer well betwene yow. 

223 



THE PASTON LETTERS 



631 

B. D. M. S. TO JOHN PASTON 1 
Be this delyvered to Mastyr John Paston. 

1RECOMAUNDE me unto you as unknowyn. And as 
for the wryting I send unto you, the cause why yt was 
nate endossed was, for the berer ther of knew yow wel 
i now. And as for youre Cossyn Mary, she ys no longer with 
us, as a pon Seynt Mathewys Evyn she departyd from me, and 
went to Awdry Croxeston, and she told me that ye wold pay 
for her horde ther. But on thyng I let you know ; she hathe 
demenyd her ful symply bothe for youre worship and also for 
her awne. Ther ys but few within oure plasse but they know 
how yt is with her, and al by her awne bessynes of her tunge. 
And I had knowyn as myche at the begynnyng as I have don 
sythe, I wold not have delt in the mater nat for xl. pound ; for 
I wys she ys no thyng so sadde as I wold she wer. 

No more to you at thys tyme, but the Holy Gost have 
you in His kepyng, and send you youre hertys esse. I pray 
you hertly that I may sp[e]ke with you. 



B. D. M. S. 



632 



ABSTRACT 2 
Richard Suthwell to John Paston, Esquire. 

Thanks him for speaking to the Mayor and Recorder for the appearance 
of certain persons at this last session, as he wrote from Walsingham. Thomas 
Wolvesby and Colyns make great labor for the poor men's undoing. Begs him 
to move the Mayor to have pity, considering their trouble at Walsingham, when 
they were prisoners. 

Thetford, Shere-Thursday. 

1 [From Fenn, iv. 262.] There is no evidence of the date either of this or of the 
four following letters beyond the fact that this and the two next are addressed to John 
Paston, while the two last are addressed to Margaret Paston during her husband's 
life. None of them, therefore, can be later than 1466. 

2 [From Paston Mss., B.M.] 

224 



EDWARD IV 

ABSTRACT! 

John Paston, Junior, to his Father, John Paston 

Has spoken *with Warwyk and Stwkle' for the place and lands in 
Arleham. Declined their ofFer of 6d. an acre, they keeping the place in 
repair ; but Stwkle has promised all the lands shall be purveyed for, as for 
this year. Warwyk this day offered my mother 'jd. an acre for the lands in 
Arleham, but I counselled her to hold out for a longer terra. Kook will no 
longer hold the place for 7</. or 2)d. an acre, and will only give 6d., if he is 
to keep it in repair. Has spoken with Dame Alice Weche and Geoffrey 
Spyrlyng, who have agreed to set a tenant to occupy the lands in dispute till 
Paston comes home. 



St. Martin's Even. 



634 



ABSTRACT 2 
Thomas Gnatyshale to Mrs. Paston 

I hope the young man I sent will please ' my master and you.' I hope you 
will not receive him at this time, and when my master comes home refuse him. 
As for your lands at Sparham, there are not many lands to let. Has inquired 
at Salle. Master Edward ^ is clearly answered of j^i8 a year and yj. or 8j. 
more. Bryston, Thyrnyng, and Owleton are let, which belong to the manor 
of Salle. So he is clearly answered twice a year at London, besides the fees, 
viz., of the receiver 26s. 8^., of the steward 20^/., and of the bailliff zSs. Sd. 

Sparham, Wednesday before Ascension. 



635 



ABSTRACT* 

T. Gnatyshale to Mrs. Paston 

James and Robert Radclef mean to take away my goods, and I shall be 
taken if I be at Norwich at next shire. Pray let my master know. I suppose 

» [From Paston Mss., B.M.] 2 Ibid. 

' Probably Edward, son of Robert Mauteby. He was Margaret Paston's uncle. 

* [From Paston MSS., B.M.] 

VOL. IV. P 225 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

it was by their commandment that my two neat were taken on Saturday last at 
Lyng, *for one that is under bailly of Richmond took hem.' John Every ton 
will tell you more. The receipts of the manor of Sparham with costs are 
;^io, 3 J. 11^^. If any man of yours come to Norwich please send me your 
adrice. (Signed) 'T. Gnat.' 

636 

ABSTRACT 1 

James Arblaster to John Paston, [Squire]" 

John a Berney of Wychyngham wishes to disinherit him of his liberty of 
faldage in Colyette. Desires the help of one of Paston's men. As for my 
Lady of Oxford, * I have get you a trusty man against Tuesday or Wednesday 
next.' 

[There is no distinct evidence of the date of this letter, except that it is probably 
not later than 1466, when John Paston died, though it may have been addressed to 
his younger son John. Compare Nos. 232, 233, and 234, in vol. ii.] 



JOHN PASTON'S FUNERAL 2 

Expences paid by Gloys at Norwich the day 
the Cors was ther and hefor. 

1466 I . ^YRSTE. The iiii. orders of fryers, viii/. Item, almesse, 
r1 \\s. v\\d. Item, to xxiii. susters of Normandys,* with 
-*- the gardian eche of them, iiii^., and the gardian, v\\\d. 
— ^viiij. Item, in offering on Pentecost Tuesday^ for my 
master, \d. ; for the herse, xlj. For xxiiii. yerdes of brod 
wythtys for gowns, xxviij. v\\\d. ; for dyeng of the same, iiiii. 

* [From Paston mss., B.M.] 

' This designation is added on the address, but is struck out. 

' [From Blomefield's Norfolk, vi. 483. Folio edition, iii. 692.] The original of 
this document v^as probably among the Paston mss. when Blomefield composed his 
History of Norfolk, but where it is at present cannot be ascertained. It is cited by 
Blomefield, or perhaps by his continuator, Mr. Parkin, as ' a very long but narrow 
roll,' then in his possession. The text, however, does not seem to be printed entire, 
as the Editor only professes to give * several particulars therein.' 

* At Norwich. ^ 27th May 1466. 

226 



EDWARD IV 

For settyng on the tents, y'ld. For xxii. yerdes and iii. 1466 
quarters of brod wythts, xxxiiiLf, md. For grownedyng, iiij. 
\md. For dyeng, iiiij. To xxxviii. prests at the dyryge at 
Norwyche, when the cors lay ther, xiij. vmd. To xxxix. 
schyldern with surplyces within the schurche and without, ms. 
mid. To xxvi. clerks with iiii. kepers of the torches, eche of 
them ii^., ms. mid. To the clerks of St. Peters and St. 
Stevens for the ryngers ageyn the cors, i\s. To the iiii. orders 

of fryers that rede ageyn the cors . To the Prioress of 

Carow, v\s. ymd. To a maide that came with her, Yxd. To 
the ancors \anchoress^'\ yld. In almesse, xvj. To a woman 
that came from London with the cors to Norwyche, y\s. 
viii[^]. 

Payments he Gloys and Calle at Bromholme. 

Fyrste. To the Prior, be my masters bequest, xb. To ix. 
monks, eche of them y\s. viii^., iii/. To an other monke, 
who was of the same place, xx^. For brinnyng of the Abbes 
with the torches, xx^. To the Priors boteler for bred, iij. 
xd. For wasshyng of napry, yind. To the boteler for hys 
reward, xxd. To the baker for cccx. eggs, xix^. To hym 

for hys reward, iiij. mid. To xxviii. bedds with of 

clothys, and wasshyng of the same, ws. To ii. men that 
fyllyd the grave, viii^. To brueng of v. kome make, xx^. 
For ix. pownd candyl, xi^. To the clerks of Bromholm, viii^. 
For viii. peces of peuter lost of the Priors, xx^. Geven 
among the men of the bakhouse, xx^. To the parisshe 
schyrche of Bromholm, xj. To xii. schyrchys, Ij". viii^. To 
the prest that cam with the cors from London, ms. liiid. To 
servytors that awaytyd upon hym by the komawndment of 
W. Paston, xxi^. To Playters for hys offering, liiid. To the 
vyker of Upton, iij. To the sexton of Bromholm for xxii. 
crossys geven to Marget and Modeley, per John Paston, iiiij. 
vi^. To xiiii. rynggars, viis. To xxiiii. servertors, eche of 
them iiii<^., viiij. To Ixx. servertors, eche of them md., xviij. 
Yld. Paid to Dawbeny for servertors, viij. For fyshh the 
day after the enterment, Vis. xd. For vi. barells bere, xiij. 
For a roundlet of red wine of xv. gallonys, &c., xiis. xid. To 

227 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1466 a hors hyer for iii. days for Sir James, yXid. For a quarter 
malte, ws. For iiii. bushels wete, xxxii*/. For a quarter of 
otys, iij. y'lnd. For x. kombe malte brueng, xl^. For the 
boord of Rychard Hermer, wrythe, iii. days, and for hys hyer 
the sayde tyme, xiii^. ob. For William Yonge, barbor, v. 
days mete and drynke, and hys hyer the sayde tyme, xvi^. 
For vi. pownd candyl, vii^. ob. To xii. pore men beryng 
torches from London to Norfolk be vi. day, ij., takyng eche 
of them on the day iiii^/., and for iii. dayes in goyng homer- 
ward, takynge every day vi^. Geven to Martyn Savage and 
Denschers awaytyng upon my master at London be vii. dayes 
before that he was caryed, ns. x^. For bred bowthe, xxiiiij. 
For vii. barels here, xviij. vi^. For a barel of the grettest 
assyse, nis. 'imd. For iiii. barells of alee, xiiij. iiii^. For bred 
and alee for xii. men that bare torches, yimd. ob. To a dole 
at Bromholm, v/. xiiij. n\\d. To William Colens, one of the 
botelers at Bromholm, xii^. To Wate Webster, another bote- 
ler, xii*^'. To Greg. Worsteler, one of the porters at Brom- 
holm, iiii<^. The parson at Mauteby,^ and Sir Thomas Lynes, 
to the prestes at the deryge at Bromholm, xliiij. In almesse, 
xlviij. vi^. ; more, xx.r. To the glaser for takyn owte of ii. 
panys of the wyndows of the schyrche for to late owte the 
reke of the torches at the deryge, and sowderyng new of the 
same, xx^. [This part of the roll, according to Blomefield, 
or his continuator, seemed to be written by Gloys, above 
mentioned, in an indifferent hand. The remainder is in a 
very neat and curious old hand, which was supposed to be 
that of Margaret Paston.] 

Vittelles bought by Richard Charles. 

First. For xxvii. gees, xviii. For xxvii. frankyd gees, vii. 
viii^. Ixx. caponnes, xviii. vii^. For xxix.^ xvii. 

chekons, xvij. v\d. For x. chekons, yji. For xii. pygges, 
xiiii. yji. For xlix. calvys, iiii/. xiiij. iiii^. For xxxiiii. 

* Robert Coteler, who was presented to the living by John Paston in 1465, on the 
resignation of Thomas Howys. 

* A short blank occurs in Blomefield after ' xxix.' and before * xvii.' 

228 



EDWARD IV 

lambys, xxviij. iid. For xxii. shep, xxxviij. vd. x. nete, 1466 
iiii/. xvij. id. For ii. napronnes to Richard Lynstede, xd. 
For claretts and fawcetts, vid. mccc. eggs, vij. vid. For 
XX. galons milk, xx^. For viii. galons creme, iis. y'lnd. For 
iiii. pints of butter, iiii^. For i. quarter and ii. bushels of 
whete mele, viij. xd. To the parson of Crostweyt for i. 
quarter of whete, vis. For xiiii. galons of ale, us. To a 
labourer for iii, days, xii^. To xxiiii. galons of ale, iiii^. For 
xiii. salt fysshe, iiiij. iiii<^. For the purveying of bred, ale, 
and fysshe, ms. iiii/af. To William Reynolds for lodgyng of 
Master Prowet, the Prior of the White Freres, the parson of 
Mautby, Sir Thomas Lynds, and other, by ii. nyghtis, vi^. 
For bred, ale, and possets to the same persons, vi^. To 
Herman, fleying bests by iii. days, iij'., and to John Foke, 
by iii. days, xxd. For purveying of all the velys, lambes, x. 
beefins, certain piggs and polaly [/>o»//ry], xld. 

Bill of the Prior of Bromholm. 

Memorandum. The Prior toke to bord diverse persons 
laboryng abought the enterment, begynnyng the Thursday in 
Pentecost weke, the vi. yere of Kyng Edward the iiiith. 

On Thursday P find 3 persons who had xii^. for their 
board and hire ; on Friday 5 who had xvd. ; on Saturday 8 
who had xxiii<^. On Monday all were employed ; and on 
the day after I find 4 to be allowed for their board iiii^. <?^., 
and for their hires v^., — ix<^. ob. Delivered by the Prior to 
Richard Charles : — Fyrst, v. quarters of otes, xms. mid. ; v. 
swyne, xiis. vid. ; ii. bushel of mestlyn, xv^. ; v. pownd of 
candell, vd. ; xx. quarters of make, xiii.f. iiii^., and with 
gryndyng and brewyng, xviiij. For a cartfuU of hey, iilr. 
iiii</. For ii. swyne, vs. For ii. bushel otes, viii^. For a 
quarter of herryng, vi^. For half a quarter makerell, vii^. 0^. 
To the parson of St. Peters for his fee of the wax abought the 
coors, beside ii. candels of i. B. and i. hert candel of a pound, 
xx^. At my masters xxx. day for ofFeryng, id. Geven to 
churches and in almes by Gresham, toward Bromholm, v. 

^ Blomefield or his continuator here speaks in his own person. 

229 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1466 marks. To the clerk of St. Peters of Hungate^ his felaship 
for ryngyng when the coors was in the church, VAid. To 
Dawbeney for bests and other stufFe for the enterment, xx/. 
To him in gold for to chaunge into small mony for the 
dole, xl/. To W. Pecok, in iii, bags to here to Bromholm, 
in copper, the 20th day, xxvi. marks. To Medeley for his 
reward, iiii. marksy and the same to Maryot. To Maryot for 
costs he bare by the way to Bromholm, iii/. xii*^. More to 
Medeley for mony paid by him, yX\s. xd. To the keper of 
the inne where myne husband dyed, for his reward, xxj. To 
Paston chirch, X5. To Bakton chirch, vi^. vnid. To Gresham 
the London carrier, in full payment for the Chaundeler of 
London, v/. xixj. iiii^. More in almes mony, vij. viii^. More 
for wyne and bere, vii. marks. To the parson of St. Peters, 
vi5. viii^. For wyne for the seingers when the coors was at 
Norwich, xxj. To Skolehouse in part of his bille for torches 
and wax made at Bromholm, for to brenne upon the grave, 
iiii. marks. For x. yerds of narow blak for the viker of 
Dallynge and Robert Gallawey, and for iii. yerds and quarter 
of brod cloth for lUee, xxj. xd. To Freton chirch, vij-. viii^. 
For a cope called a frogge of worsted for the Prior of Brom- 
holm, xxvij. y'md. For bred at the enterment, ixj. In almes, 
viiij. iiii^. In wyne and spices, h. To Dom. John Loveday 
for cloth for a ridyng cope for himself, xiiiij. ii^. To the 
makyng of Redham Stepill, viiij. iiii<^. To John Orford, wax 
chandeler, for xii. torches and one candell of i. Ib.y Ivj. ii^. ob. 
To John Dewe for grey lynen cloth and sylk frenge for the 
hers, vi/. xvij. ii*^. Given to the Austeners at the chapter at 

the of Yarmouth, Ixxvj. To Daubeney 

for to kepe the yere day at Bromholm the first yere after his 
dethe, viii/. iij. 'imd. Given at Castor to xxv. howsholders, 
every houshold iii^. the said tyme, vij. iii*^. To viii. pore men 
the said tyme, xviii^. To the master of the College the said 
tyme, vij. viii<3'. To Mastkr Clement Felmyngham the said 
tyme, vij. viii^. To viii. prests at Castor the said tyme, iij. 

1 A church in Norwich, rebuilt by John Paston in 14.60, the advowson having 
been acquired by him and Margaret, his wife, in 1458. The date of the rebuilding 
is engraved in stone on a buttress by the north door. 
230 



EDWARD IV 

viii</. To childern in surplices and other pore folk at the said 1466 
tyme, xniy. To the parson of Hungate, vis, viii^. To the 
said parson for a certeyn^ unto Mighelmesse next after the 
said yere day, viiij. viii^. To Skolous, wax chandeler, for 
makyng of the hers at Bromholm, xxii/. ixs. viii<^. To Philip 
Curson, draper, for cloths, ix/. iiij. ol?. To Aubrey, draper, 
xxxiiiij. For a quarter of makerell, xnd. To the Prior of 
Bromholm for malte spent at the enterment, xls. For light 
kept on the grave, xs. Geven at Cristemasse next after the 
said yereday, to eche of the iiii. orders of friers, xj., — xh. 
To the vyker of Dallyng for bryngyng home of a pardon 
from Rome, to pray for alle our frends sowles, viii^. iiiii/. 
For a black gowne to the said viker, viiij. 

638 
FASTOLFS GOODS 2 

DECLARACIO bonorum mobilium Johannis Fastolf 
militis ad manus Johannis Paston armigeri dc- 
veniencium et possidencium tam ex liberacione 
Thomae Howys, Rectoris de Pulham, unius executoris dicti 
militis, quam ex Rapto aliorum hominum serviencium et 
tenencium suorum. Ac valorem in possessione dominiorum 
maneriorum terrarum et tenementorum suorum in eorum 
prima perquisicione per dictum militem solutorum et per 
heredem dicti Paston clameatorum pro nichilo solvendo, cum 
custubus edifficacionis eorundem. Et pro quibus omnibus 
supra specificatis executores dicti militis petiunt de heredibus 
et executoribus dicti Johannis Paston, solucionem restitucionem 
ac satisfacionem de dampnis occasione hujusmodi retencionis. 

In primis. 
Die octava mensis Novembris anno xxxviij. Regni Regis 
Henrici Sexti, videlicet tercio die post obitum Johannis Fastolf 

1 Masses called 'certeynes' are referred to in No. 53 (vol. ii. p. 64). 

2 [From a MS. in the Tower of Magd. College, Oxford.] This is a paper drawn 
up by William Worcester after John Paston's death in 1466. The errors in grammar 
are characteristic of the writer. 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1466 militis, Thomas Howys clericus, co-executor dicti Johannis 
Fastolf, deliberavit Johanni Paston armigero de bonis dicti 
Johannis Fastolf existentibus ad tunc sub salva custodia in 
abbathia Sancti Benedicti de Hulmo de parte majoris summe 
in auro, videlicet in nobilibus antiquis boni et justi ponderis 
ij"'- cccc. nobilia, precii nobile viijj. iiij^., faciunt m'//., et alia 
vice in moneta argenti xxiiij//. xvijj. ij^. ; unde summa 
m'xxiiij/z. xvijj. ijd. 

Item, idem Thomas liberavit Johanni Paston dicto mense 
Novcmbris apud Norwicum, de vasis argenti diversarum 
specierum ad tunc habitarum extra thesauraium dicti militis 
manerij de Castre, iiij"^- xxiij. unciarum ponderis Troie, 
precium uncie ijs. x^., faciunt vHxix/i. xviijj. vj^. Et eidem 
Johanni apud Norwicum alia vice, de vasis argenti, ponderis 
Ivij. unciarum, precium uncie ut supra, vij//. iiijj. x^. Et 
eidem Johanni alia vice apud dictum Castre liberantur de 
vasis argenti Cxij. unciarum precium ut supra xv/f. xvijj. 

iiij^.; unde summa v'^iiij^'viij//. 

viiji/. 

Item, idem Thomas liberavit eidem Johanni Paston apud 
Norwicum dicto mense Novembris, in cyphis et vasis auri 
triati et finati, iij^'^xv. unciarum ponderis Troie, precium 
uncie xIj CI//. 

Item, idem Thomas liberavit dicto Johanni ad faciendum 
certum prestitum comiti de Salysberye de bonis dicti Johannis 
Fastolf, unde idem Johannes Paston habet sufficientem securi- 
tatem et obligacionem Episcopi Norwicensis xxxiij//. vjj-. viij^. 
Et consimili modo liberavit dicto Johanni ad faciendum certum 
prestitum domino de Fitzwater, unde idem Johannes 

habet sufficientes securitates, xxxiij//. vjj. viij^. . . Ixvj//. 
xiijj. iiij</. 

Item, dictus Johannes Paston cepit de bonis dicti militis 
existentibus sub custodia Willelmi Worcetyr, contra agrea- 
mentum suum, et tradita per ipsum ad salvo custodiendum 
Thome Plummer de London scryvaner et Johanni Gress- 
ham de eadem capper, videlicet in vasis argenti diversarum 
specierum m'viij'^iiij''*'x. unciarum, precium uncie ut supra, 
CClxviij//. vs. Et consimiliter cepit cyphum coopertum de 
232 



EDWARD IV 

puro auro ponderis Troie xxiij. unc', j. quart, dl., precium 1466 
uncie yds., xlvj//. xvs. Et similiter cepit unam cathenam auri 
puri, ponderis Troie xxiij. unc* et dimidii, precium unc' ut 
supra xlvij// . CCClxij//. 

Item, idem Johannes Paston cepit consimili modo de 
bonis dicti militis traditis Willelmo Worcetyr ad custodien- 
dum, dicto mense Novembris, videlicet London, apud domum 
dicti Thome Plummer, ultra Cxl/z. per dictum Worcestre 
solutas pro panno nigro pro liberatis togarum datis erga 
funeral ia dicti militis, et pro serico pro baneretis pictis cum 
armis, necnon pro vino et speciebus, videlicet viij*^j. nobilia 
antiqua boni et justi ponderis, precium nobile viiJ5. iiij</., 
iij'^xxxiij//. xvs. Et liberantur dicto Johanni Paston per 
manus dicti Thome Howys, London, de moneta tradita in 
custodia dicti Thome Plummer Ixij//. xjs. iiij^.; pro toto. 
CCCiiij'"'xvj//. vjj. iiij^. 

Item, dictus Johannes Paston cepit consimili modo de 
Willelmo Worcestre certa notabilia monilia et jocalia auri 
cum iapidibus preciosis garnizata, videlicet unum monile 
ditissimum vocata Anglice a White Rose nuper domini ducis 
Eborum^ cum magno precioso lapide vocato a poynted 
dyamanty qui in prima empcione constabat, ut dicitur iiij""" m'* 
marcarum, ac alia duo jocalia nuper dicti domini ducis 
tradita in plegio quando dictus Johannes Fastolf obligatus 
fuit pro dicto duce in tribus milibus libris executoribus 
cardinalis Anglie^ super certis denariis prestitis dicto duci, 
et unde idem, dominus dux debebat dicto Johanni Fastolf 
in denariis prestitis CCCClxvj//. xiijj-. iiij^. Et pro aliis 
justis causis CClxvj//. xiijj. iiij^. Et predicta tria jocalia 
per assensum dicti domini ducis sub sigillo armorum in 
scriptis tradita assignata fuerunt dicto Johanni Fastolf ut 
bona sua propria ad vendendum et disponendum in recom- 
pensacione debiti sui et aliis magnis laboribus et vexacioni- 
bus dicti militis pro dicto duce sustentatis et habitis dum 
modo locum tenens pro Rege fuit in Francia, ac postea in 
Anglia. . . . vij^^xxxiij//. vjj. viij^. 

1 Richard, Duke of York, father of Edward iv. 

2 Probably Cardinal Beaufort j but it may be Cardinal Kemp. 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1466 Item, predictus Johannes Paston recepit exitus et proficua 

omnium maneriorum, terrarum et tenementorum dicti militis 
in comitatibus NorfFolk, Suffolk, Essex et Surrie per manus 
ministrorum et servorum sine consensu executorum dicti 
militis, diversis annis ex quo obiit, per propinquam estima- 
cionem . . m'vjc.lxvj//. xiijj. mjd. 

Item, dictus Johannes Paston recepit diversa alia catalla 
et bestias dicti militis, videlicet equos et palefridos principales 
suos valoris xxxli. ac oves et animalia minuta cubancia in 
pasturis de Castre et aliis maneriis, videlicet ij'^iiij'^lvj. oves 
diversorum generum precium capitis xmjd. Cxliij//. vs. 'ni]d. 
Et in precio xiij. magnarum bestiarum vj//. Et in valore 
vj""- cuniculorum apud Warennam de Haylysdon anno quo 
dictus miles obiit per Warennarios ibidem per propinquam 
estimacionem assessatos precium m'- xv^., xlv//. Similiter in 
precio vellerum lane ovium de stauro suo apud Haylysdon 
ante obitum suum remanencium, xxvj//. xiijs. iiij^. per ipsum 
recept' . . CCl/i. xvn]s. viij^. 

Item, idem Johannes Paston recepit apud Castre pre- 
dictam stuffuram et ordinacionem pro defensione patrie in 
artilleria, videlicet colubrinas librillas^ diversorum magnitu- 
dinum cum cameris in decem carectis oneratis ac in curassys, 
brigandinis jakkis, salectis, basnetes, habourjonnys, lanceis, 
crossebowes de calibe [c/ialybe]^ longbowes, arcubus, sagittis, 
gonnepowder, gonnestonys, et cetera hujusmodi defensibilia 
valoris. CI//. 

Item, recepit apud Castre per supervisum dicti Thome 
Howys in valore librorum pertinencium capelle ac in uten- 
ciliis garderobe dicti militis ibidem, videlicet in costeris et 
lectis de pluma et coopertoria de arras et tapestria ac penulis 
de martys cum togis necnon utencilia aule camerarum coquine 
et cetera hujusmodi, ut per billam de particulis patet, Cxxj//. 
vijj. iiij^. Et simili modo de utenciliis Warderobe et camera- 
rum remanencium apud manerium suum in Suthwerk, valoris 
xx/i.y .... Cxljli. v'ljs. mjii. 

Item, dictus Johannes recepit per manus dicti Thome 
Howys, Willelmi Paston, Thome Playter, Thome Plummer 

* colubrinas libriUas, i.e. culverins. 



EDWARD IV 

de London, scryvaner, Christofori Hansson armigeri et Luce 1466 
Nantron ad diversas vices tarn Londoniis quam in Suthwerk, 
ut patet per billam de parcellis, Ciiij/i. xjj. 

viij^. 

Item, idem Willelmus Worcestre mense Julii anno v*" 
regni Regis Edwardi quarti solvit uxori dicti Thome Plumer 
pro debito dicti Johannis Fasten ut pro panno nigro ac 
prestita facta et liberaciones argenti fact' suo mandato diversis 
personis, xxxij/^ 

Item, idem Johannes recepit in valore et precio panni 
lanei nigri coloris per ipsum dati diversis hominibus de affini- 
tate sua propria, ultra Clij//. ut in precio panni lanei nigri 
coloris provisi et dati amicis et servientibus dicti Johannis 
Fastolf erga funeralia sua tenenda, xlli. Et similiter idem 
Johannes Paston fecit prefatum Thomam Howys exponere 
et tradere diversis hominibus in regardis et solucionibus circa 
propria negocia dicti Paston expedienda London' et alibi 
xxx//. xvj^. j</. Et consimiliter idem Johannes fecit dictum 
Thomam exponere et solvere in expensis victualium hospicii 
tenti apud Castre anno primo quo idem miles obiit, tam 
circa extraneos et notos supervenientes de affinitate et amicicia 
sua sine causa apud Castre Maner trahentes ibidem moram 
inutilem, ad summam iiij^'^'x//,, prout evidenter patebit per 
certam declaracionem, Clxli. xv]s. ]d. 

Item, ultra predicta bona sic sibi applicata, prefatus 
Johannes Paston pretendebat habere et possidere, sine racione 
et scripto autentiquo, omnia dominia, terras et tenementa 
dicti militis in comitatibus, NorfFolk, Suffolk et Norwico, ac 
sine solucione alicujus summe que constabant dicto militi in 
prima empcione ultra edifficaciones et repparaciones dictorum 
maneriorum, ix^'viij*^//. 

Item, considerandum est quod, ultra dictas perquisiciones, 
edifficacio manerii de Castre velut fortalicium defensionis 
patrie constabat in triginta annis y'f^li. Et edifficacio 
manerii de Haylysdon, cum clausura bosci et warenne, ac 
edifficacione duarum domorum vocatarum lez logges apud 
Haylysdon et Drayton, v^'xlviij//. xiiji. iiij^. Et custus im- 
parcacionis parci in Cotton cum repparacione manerii mfli. 

235 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1466 Et repparacio principalis mesuagii sui in villa de Jernemouth 
CC//. Edifficacio et repparacio tenementorum suorum in 
civitate Norwici CCxl//. . . vij'"'CCCiiij'"'viij//. xiijj. injd. 
Item, ultra ista, prefatus Johannes Paston retinet in 
custodia sua principales evidencias maneriorum dicti militis 
vocatorum Dedham Netherhall et Dedham Overhall in comi- 
tatu Essex ; que quidem maneria, in defectu dictarum eviden- 
ciarum per ipsum non prosequutorum a tempore obitus dicti 
militis pro recuperacione eorundem, et hucusque, existunt 
extra possessionem, in maximum prejudicium defuncti, pro 
eo quod dictum manerium vocatum Dedham Netherhall con- 
stabat dicto militi in prima empcione m'//., et predictum 
manerium vocatum Dedham Overhall Clx//. Et exitus et 
proficua dictorum maneriorum que ad manus executorum 
dicti militis medio tempore non devenerunt secundum ratam 
xl//. per annum ascendunt ad CCiiij"//. Sic in toto, . . . 
m'iiij'^- xl//. 



ABSTRACT 1 

Examinations touching Sir John Fastolf's Will 

^^y A.D. 1466. The following witnesses were examined secretly and apart 

__. J on behalf of Sir William Yelverton, ' deceased,' 2 in the house of the treasurer 
jyj^£ of St. Paul's Cathedral by John Druell, LL.D. :— 

May 17. John Monke alias Smyth. 

19. John Dawson and John Gyrdyng. 

20. William Boswell, Robert Inglys, Ric. Home, and Thos. Pykeryng. 



* [From Paston mss., B.M.] The following examinations are contained in the 
same volume as the depositions of John Paston of which an abstract will be found in 
No. 606. They begin at page 21, immediately after Paston's depositions, a single 
blank page intervening. 

2 By a singular mistake in the record, Sir William Yelverton is here spoken of 
as deceased instead of John Paston: — 'per partem venerabilis viri domini Willelmi 
Yelverton militis defuncti contra testes Johannis Paston armigeri et domini Thomae 
Howys.' Yelverton certainly lived for some years after this, and was continued as 
judge by Henry vi. on his restoration (see Foss), but John Paston died on the 26th 
May 1466. 

236 



EDWARD IV 

May 21. Henry Gierke, John Tovy, Thos. Hert, William Shawe, and 1466 

Nich. Cherche. „^y 

22. Thos. Newton, Th. Spycer, and Thos. Neve. and 

23. John Rugge, John^ Gierke, and Rob. Bunche. lui^g 
June 10. Stephen Scrope. 

II. Ric. Fastolf. 

I. John Monke, a smith of the parish of St. James, Pokethorpe, in Nor- 
wich, illiterate, of free condition, thirty-two years old and over, alleges bribery 
of witnesses by Paston and Howys, who offered to sell John Russe lands at 
Leystofte at little more than half their value. Howes made Russe a present of 
salt, barley, and malt to the value of ^20, and promised him a full discharge of 
his account for goods of the testator in his custody to the value of ;^200 and 
over. He paid Robert Gutteler, vicar of Gaster, 'colore cujusdam ultimi vale 
dicti testatoris prius non debite ' (j/V), money and corn to the value of 20 marks, 
and promised to present him to the living of Mawdeby whenever Thomas 
Howse resigned it. They gave Felmyngham an annuity of 8 marks, and 40s. 
to a boy who is his servant. They gave Robert Boteler a fee [feodum) of 5 
marks [a year^ for life, and the farm of a close called Mawdeby close, besides 
some other gifts which are specified. Hence the said John Russe, Rob. 
Gutteler, Glement Felmyngham, and Rob. Butteler, falsely deposed in answer 
to the second interrogatory that on the Saturday before the testator's death they 
were present in a certain low room (iassa camera) in the manor of Gaister, 
where the testator was principally between the hours of 8 and 1 1 a.m., and that 
with them were the said John Paston and John Brakley, and no others ; for in 
reality there were present in the chamber with the testator on that day, and 
especially during those hours, the said Rob. Fitzrauf, Nich. Newman, and 
John Loer continually, and the said Dan John Davye, Dan Thomas Howys, 
Friar John Bernard, physician, and Henry Barbour, and several others [at 
intervals^. Moreover, Gutteler, Felmyngham, and Butteler, said Russe was 
present on that occasion, whereas both he and Gutteler were in other places. 
Moreover, bribes were given by Paston and Howes in various forms during the 
months of January, February, and March i462[]-33, and at other times in the 
parishes of Gaister and Yarmouth, and in the city of London, to Ralph Lampet, 
brother William Bukenham, and the said Rob. Gutteler. Paston promised to 
promote Bukenham to the priory of Yarmouth, and also, as a reward for his 
testimony, to give him 13 acres of the testator's land in Scroudby and Gaister 
called Isabell, to the use of the prior and convent of Norwich. Hence the 
testimony of these witnesses was false, that Fastolf, about the beginning of 
Autumn five years ago, had made to John Paston estate and feoffment and 
livery of seisin of his manor of Gaister, and other lands in Gos. Norf. and Suff., 
and the city of Norwich, to the use of the said testator while he lived, and 
afterwards to that of the said John Paston and his heirs ; for if any such thing 
was done (which is not admitted) it was on the i6th October 1457, in the 
36th year of Henry vi., after the Autumn of the said year, and not to the use 
of Paston and his heirs, but to the use of Fastolf himself, and for the accom- 
plishment of his will. Further, the testimony of Russe, Gutteler, Bukenham, 
Felmyngham, and Butteler was untrue as to the alleged will of Fastolf that John 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1 466 Paston should obtain the King's license for the foundation of a college at Caister. 
MAY It was in truth FastoIPs will that the executors should obtain the King's 
and license to found a college there of seven Benedictine monks of the same pro- 
JUNE fession as the monastery of St. Benet at Hulme, of whom one should be prior, 
and of seven poor men, and that they should be endowed out of his lands to the 
extent of 300 marks a year, all charges deducted, to pray for the soul of Lady 
Milicent, his wife, his parents and benefactors ; and if the executors were un- 
able to obtain this license, they were to give the abbot and convent of St. 
Benet's lands and money for the maintenance of six new monks and seven poor 
men in that monastery with a like object. Further, it is not true as alleged 
that on Saturday before his death, viz., 3rd Nov., between eight and eleven 
A.M., the testator openly declared his will with a clear voice in the hearing of 
bystanders, for he was so ill and weak from want of breath that he was unable 
to speak distinctly at any time that whole day, especially during the hours above 
mentioned. 

Moreover, bribes were offered by Paston and Howes in May and June 
1465, in the parishes of Caister and Yarmouth, and in the city of London, 
to Thomas Thorald, Robert Lawes, Will. Waterman, John Osbern, John 
Heydon, Will. Pykeryng, John Symmys, and John Shawe, for their testimony 
in this matter, viz. that they should have 20s. besides travelling expenses and 
divers other sums which were offered to them in Paston's name by Cutteler, 
vicar of Caister, and Ric. Calle ; and John Paston promised the said William 
Pykeryng that he should recover certain lands in the tenure of his brother John 
Pykeryng, in Fylby, to the value of 40s. Influenced by these bribes, Thos. 
Thorald deposed that on the Saturday before FastoIPs death, Bartholomew 
Elys and John Davys came to his house in Belton, two miles and more from 
Yarmouth, about eight a.m., when he was in his grange, and asked him to come 
with them to divers manors of the said Sir John, to receive certain grain from 
his farmers ; after which they drank in Thorald's house, and he went with 
• them to Freton, and to the manor called Calcote hall, and other places in 
Lothynlond until midday. Robert Lawes also deposed that on Friday before 
FastoIPs death he went to Becclys, and next day, viz. Saturday, returning 
homeward {^rediens domorsum), met on the way the said Bartholomew Elis, 
John Davy, and Thomas Thorald going to Freton, when Davy called him and 
bade him tell Thomas Howys or John Rus that on Monday or Tuesday next 
he would go to Caister and give an account of his stewardship. Afterwards, 
about two P.M., Lawes came to Caister and told John Rus his business in the 
absence of Howys. But the said William Waterman, being bribed as afore- 
said, falsely declares that on the Saturday before FastoIPs death Barth. Elys 
and John Davy came to his house at Gorlyston about seven a.m., and that he 
went with them to Thorald's house, and that they went and spoke with Thorald 
at the grange while he waited for them at the gate. Afterwards they all 
entered the hall of Thomas Thorald and drank beer together, and all four 
went together to Calcote-halle and waited there till ten a.m., when Watyrman 
left the other three and returned home. And about two p.m. Elys and Davy 
returned and drank beer at Watyrman's house. But the truth is that Elys and 
Davy were at Yarmouth that day from seven till past eleven a.m. 

238 



EDWARD IV 

Further, John Osberne, Will. Pykerynge, and John Heydon were corrupt 1466 
witnesses. John Osberne said that on Saturday before the Feast of St. „;^y 
Leonard, when Fastolf was ill of his last illness, the said Osberne, Pykerynge, a^d 
and Heydon came to Caister to receive certain monies of John Rus for barley june 
sold to him by Osberne; that about eight a.m. they entered the hall of the 
manor and found Robert Hert and others, servants of Fastolf, sitting at break- 
fast ; and that John Russe immediately came to Osberne and talked to him 
about the payment. At last Russe took them into the claustruniy and leaving 
them, entered FastolPs chamber ; then, after remaining two hours and more, 
returned into the claustrum and delivered the money to Osbern. This testimony 
was confirmed by Heydon and Pykeryng ; but the truth is that Russe that 
Saturday, from seven till near twelve o'clock [a principio hora septima usque ad 
Jinem hone undecimte)^ and Robert Hert from seven to ten a.m., were at Yar- 
mouth, three miles off. 

Further, John Symmys and John Shawe were corrupt witnesses, the former 
saying that Robert Hert was present in the said manor-house of Caister at eight 
A.M. on the said day, and even at nine o'clock at dinner-time [tempore prandii)^ 
and that he saw the said Robert Hert sitting among FastolPs other servants at 
breakfast (Jentaculum) ; and that he (Symmys) and Henry Wynstall, FastolPs 
barber, were occupied together in shoeing horses in the said manor from break- 
fast-time aforesaid to dinner-time, and that at dinner-time Symmys saw the said 
Henry sitting in the hall with others ; and that on the said Saturday, about 
eight A.M., and even at noon, Symmys saw John Rus in the hall of the said 
manor. Also John Shawe deposed that on the Saturday before FastolPs death 
he saw John Rus and Henry Wynstall in the hall of the said manor, both at 
eight A.M. at breakfast and at dinner at midday, and he also saw Robert Hert, 
porter at the gate of the manor, at those hours ; and that between breakfast and 
dinner Shawe and Wynstall were occupied along with John Symmys in shoeing 
Sir John's horses. But the truth is that both Rus and Hert were absent as 
above-mentioned, and Wynstall was with Fastolf in his chamber from nine a.m. 
to half-past ten. Also Symmys, William Pykeryng, Heydon, Osberne, and 
Lawes were all absent the whole of that Saturday, and certainly between eight 
and eleven a.m. And notwithstanding that the contrary is alleged against them, 
John Davy, Barth. Elys, John Bokkyng, John Davy, chaplain, Thos. Upton, 
Nich. Newman, John Loer, Wm. Eton, Robert Lynne, John Marshall, Wm. 
Lynne, Henry Wynstall, Robert Hert, and Robert FitzraufF, gave honest testi- 
mony in behalf of Yelverton and Worceter, being men of good repute, suffi- 
ciently rich, and well worthy of credit. 

Additional exceptions on the part of Yelverton and Worcester to the testi- 
mony of John Rus and Clement Felmynghara, showing that Paston had offered 
to let to the former a tenement in Yarmouth for less than its true value, and had 
promised the latter 100 marks for the Austin Friars at South-Town,^ which 
was not bequeathed in FastolPs will ; also that he had given Master Robert 
Popy, besides his expenses, 20 marks for his testimony, and remitted to him 
lOs. of the rent of a fishery which was five years in arrear, and that he had 



1 South-Town, Yarmouth, sometimes called Little Yarmouth. 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1466 also released to him 40 marks of a penalty of 100 marks due by Popy upon a 
MAY bond ; in consequence of which Popy deposed that on the 30th October three 
and years previously,' John Paston had reported to him at Caister that he had made 
JUNE an agreement with Fastolf by which he was to have all FastolPs lands in Nor- 
folk, Suffolk, and the city of Norwich, after his death, paying for the same 
4000 marks, and was to found a college in the manor, etc. ; on hearing which 
Popy returned to Fastolf, and related to him what Paston had said to him, and 
Sir John confirmed it, requesting him to show the same goodwill towards 
Paston, as he had done to himself. But in truth Fastolf never asserted or 
confirmed any such thing. 

Answers to interrogatories by the same deponent, viz. — i. As to his know- 
ledge of the parties and witnesses. 

2. As to the alleged instances of bribery, and the absence of Rus on the day 
referred to. The latter fact deponent says he knows, because he and Rus lay 
together in the chamber of Thomas Howys, and on Friday before FastolPs 
death Rus went to Yarmouth to buy victuals, and left with him the key of the 
chamber, Howys being then at Blowfeld ; and Rus remained at Yarmouth all 
that Friday and the Saturday following, and returned on Sunday. 

4. As to the condition of Fastolf on the Saturday before his death. He 
was 80 weak for want of breath that he could not speak distinctly ; those about 
him could not hear what he said without inclining their ears to his mouth, and 
even then they could hardly understand him. And this deponent says he 
knows, because on Friday and Saturday before his death he was frequently in 
Sir John's chamber, and when people spoke to him to comfort him in his illness 
he only answered by sighs, so that deponent and others could not tell what he 
meant. Moreover, Sir John was accustomed when in health daily to say certain 
prayers with his chaplain, but on that day the chaplain said the service alone, 
while Fastolf lay on his bed and said nothing. 

6. As to Russe and Hert being at Yarmouth, he says he heard Thomas 
Howys that Saturday morning order the latter to take horse and ride thither to 
get provisions for the household, and he saw him ride out of the manor accord- 
ingly about seven a.m., and also saw him return with the provisions about ten a.m. 
[In the margin here is written ♦ Nititur deponere de absencia Hert, sed non 
probat.'] 

7. Knows that Henry Wynstall was absent from the hall of the manor from 
about nine to half-past ten, for he saw him enter the chamber with his instru- 
ments to shave Sir John, and wait there an hour and a half, and he could not 
have left without deponent seeing him. Moreover, John Symmys did not shoe 
horses in the manor that Saturday, for deponent had the custody of the forge and 
kept the keys. 

Answers to another set of interrogatories proposed on behalf of Paston and 

Howes, and here quoted at length, to the following effect, viz. : i. Where 

* each witness has lived since he was born, and whether he be in the service of 

the party producing him ? 2. As to his knowledge of the witnesses on the 

* * Quod dictis Johannes Paston apud Castre penultimo die Octobris ultimo prae- 
tcrito ad tres annos proxime elapsos sibi retulit.' It would seem by this that Popy's 
testimony must have been given within three years of FastolPs death. 

240 



EDWARD IV 

other side ? 3. What particulars he can give as to any bribery he imputes to 1 466 
them, and what was its special object ? 4. By what means he knew it, and by ^ay 
whom he has been asked to give testimony, and whether he has conferred with ^nd 
his fellow-witnesses ; whether they have received instructions what to depose ; june 
how often he has come up to London to give evidence and returned without 
being called; and how much he was promised for coming? 5. Each witness 
is to declare how he knows the facts, and to be charged not to reveal to the 
others on what subjects he was questioned. 

The only point of interest in these replies is that deponent was asked by 
William Worcester in the city of Norwich on Sunday eight days to give his 
testimony in the cause. He denies all communication with his fellow-witnesses, 
&c. 

Note. — The evidence of this first witness runs to five or six times the length 
of any other, and we have noted all the material points in it. Of the depositions 
of the others we shall not give any summary, but mention briefly any new state- 
ments that seem to be of interest : — 

II. John Dawson, husbandman (^agricultor), of Blowfeld, where he has 
been for four years, having formerly lived five years in the manor of Caister, 
and before that in Cambridge three years, literaius, libera conditionis, about thirty 
years old. 

His testimony generally agrees with that of Monke, and he says the 
covenant of Akethorpe was made in the February before FastolPs death. 
Between Christmas and Easter after his death deponent heard Howes in the 
manor of Caistei say to Robert Cutteler the vicar that he should have 6 marks 
for his labour in giving evidence about FastolPs will ; and afterwards Howes in his 
chamber in the said manor paid him 6 marks. Paston also promised him a 
benefice worth 40 marks. He says, about a month before FastolPs death, he 
heard Howes and Paston frequently repeat publicly in the household the tenor 
of Sir John FastolPs will. About St. John Baptist's day last he was at Yar- 
mouth, and heard John Symmys and John Shawe say they were hired by Paston 
and Howes to give evidence in the proving of FastolPs will. 

III. John Gyrdynge of Fretenham, where he has lived four years ; before 
which time he lived with the Prior of St. Faith's two years, before that in the 
manor of Caster four years, before that with John Eraeryngale of Wroxham two 
years, and before that in Norwich as an apprentice with Henry Toke five years ; 
a cook, illiterate and of free condition, thirty-two years old and over.^ Agrees 
with the evidence of corruption against Rus and others. Was present in FastolPs 
room that Saturday forenoon, and saw the two chaplains celebrating mass. H. 
Wynstall the barber was present till ten a.m. 

IV. William Boswell of Thetford, who was four years with Friar Bracley, 
&c., /iteratus, of free condition, thirty years old and more. Heard Howys, 
Paston, and Rus frequently confer at Caister about the sale of a house in Yar- 



1 The residences of every one of the witnesses are given from the time of his birth j 
but we have given these details only in one or two cases as specimens. 

VOL. IV. Q 241 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1 466 mouth, which Howys, at the request of Paston, at length granted to Rus at 
MAY ;^20 less than its value, to the end that Rus might bear witness in their favour 
and in the proving of Fastolf s will. [Here occurs a marginal note by another hand, 
JUNE ' Male sonat. Quod alius consensit non probatur.' At the head of this deposi- 
tion also it is said that this witness has been proved corrupt.] 

V. Robert Inglys of Lodon, gentleman, who has lived there two years, 
and before that in the parish of Hopton three years, before that with Henry 
None, Esq., for more than a year, before that with Sir John Fastolf two 
years, before that with the Abbot of Langley two years, and before that in 
Hopton with his father ; illiterate, and of free condition, thirty years old and- 
more. 

VI. Richard Home of Brundall, Norwich diocese, husbandman (agricultor)j 
who has lived there four years, and before that with Thomas Howys six years, 
and before that in the parish of St. George, Southwark, three years ; illiterate, 
of free condition, twenty-six years old. 

VII. Thomas Pykeryng of Wroxham, Norwich diocese, who has been a 
schoolmaster at Norwich and Aylesham, and is now clerk to Robert Norwich, 
steward of the Abbot of St. Benet's, Hulme. 

VIII. Henry Gierke of Blowfeld, husbandman [agricultor), once in the 
■service of Sir John Fastolf, illiterate, twenty-eight years old, of free condition. 
Says that on the Saturday before Fastolf's death Howys sent him and John 
Shawe to Yarmouth about seven a.m., with a cart-load of malt to one named 
Chirche ; that they arrived about eight, and were spoken to by John Rus and 
Robert Cutteler in the market-place ; that they waited with their cart till two 
P.M., when deponent took leave of Russ and Cutteler in the street, having 
repeatedly seen them there in the interval. Also that at eight and nine a.m. he 
saw Robert Hert in Yarmouth, who soon after his arrival delivered him a sack 
containing meat, bought, as he said, by Rus for FastolPs household. He says 
also that between eight and nine he spoke with the said John Symmys, William 
Pykeryng, and John Osbern in Yarmouth. 

Marginal notes are appended to the above statements, affirming that bribery 
had been proved against this witness by four others, and that he stood alone in 
his testimony. 

IX. John Tovy of Caister, where he has lived ever since he was born, 
^agricuhor, literatus, of free condition, twenty-four years old and more ; cannot 

depose of his own knowledge to the bribery of John Rus and the others. He 
says John Rus was not present in the manor on the said Saturday, having to be 
at Yarmouth to provide victuals for the household. About eight a.m. witness 
conveyed to the said manor some linen, which his mother had washed, for she 
was Sir John's washerwoman, and waited there, sometimes in the hall and 
sometimes in Sir John's chamber, till after midday, but did not see John Rus 
or any of the others named, as he would have done if they had been present. 

X. Thomas Hert of Caister, agricultor. who has lived there from his birth, 
illiterate, of free condition, twenty-three years old. Cannot depose to bribery 
except from hearsay. Was sent to Caister by his father on the Saturday before 
FastolPs death with capons to be sold to John Rus, purveyor of victuals for the 
household, but on inquiring for him, found he was absent, and delivered the 

242 



EDWARD IV 

capons to Sir Thomas Howes. Waited till nine a.m. and saw neither Rus, 1 466 
Cutteler, Boteler, nor Robert Hert, but was told Rus was at Yarmouth, and jy,^Y 
Boteler sick in his chamber. John Symmys had nothing to do with the shoeing ^nd 
of Sir John's horses that day. Was asked to bear witness in this cause a fort- jy^g 
night ago by Sir William Yelverton's servant at Caister. 

XI. William Shave, roper of Yarmouth, illiterate, of free condition, fifty- 
eight years old. On the Saturday before FastolPs death, was at the house of 
John Balle, at the sign of the Cock, in Yarmouth, in a parlour near the public 
street, when Sir Thomas Howes informed John Rus, there present, that he had 
been desired by John Paston to remit to him _^20 of the price of a house sold 
to Rus by the said Thomas, and thereupon he remitted to him the said _i^20 and 
5 marks, in which he was bound to Sir John Fastolf. He also promised him 
the lands of Akethorp Hall for 40 marks less than any other, provided he 
would favour the intention of Howes and Paston. [It is remarked in the 
margin that witness does not say what intention.] William Lynde, a servant 
of Sir John Fastolf, was present, besides others. He saw Russ and Cutteler 
that Saturday at Yarmouth, between nine and twelve a.m., and spoke with them 
and drank in the house of Thomas Lounde. As to Thomas Torald, witness 
was at Yarmouth one Saturday, when he heard Robert Cutteler and Torald 
conversing ; and the former told the latter that Sir Thomas Howes loved him 
well, and that John Paston could do him much good, and in the name of Paston 
and Howes he promised Torald 20s. for his labour, besides expenses, if he 
would depose for them. Knows that on the Saturday before Fastolf's death 
Bartholomew Elys was in Yarmouth from half-past eight to eleven a.m., for he 
and witness bought fish called roches together, sold some, and divided others in 
Elys's house. That day he saw John Rus in Yarmouth several times every 
hour from seven to eleven a.m., for he was in the market-place all that time on 
his business, and at vespers he saw John Rus in the parish church of the said 
town. Next day, Sunday, he also saw him there at matins and at mass. 

XII. Nicholas Chirche of Yarmouth, merchant, Rteratus, of free conditidn,- 
forty years old and more. Testifies concerning a conversation held in John 
Balle's parlour at the Cock in Yarmouth after the Christmas following Fastolf's 
death, with Sir Thomas Howes, John Paston, John Rus, Friar Clement Felmyng- 
ham, Dan Robert Cutteler, Robert Boteler, Thomas Neve, and others, when 
Howes remitted to John Rus ;^20 of the price of a house he had sold him, 
and 5 marks of the arrears of his accounts. He also testifies to other acts of 
the same nature on that occasion, and to the absence of Rus and Cutteler at 
Yarmouth on the Saturday above referred to, &c. 

^In the margin it is remarked that this witness has been proved corrupt by 
three others.]] 

On the 2 2d May John Naseby, proctor for Yelverton and Howes, pro- 
duced as a witness one John Rugge, in presence of Master Robert Kent, 
Paston's proctor. 

XIII. Thomas Newton of Burgh, agricu/tory illiterate, of free condition,- 
fifty years old and more. 

XIV. Thomas Spycer of Southtown, by Yarmouth, tailor, illiterate, of free- 
condition, fifty years old and more. 

243 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1466 XV. Thomas Neve of Jernemuth \_Tarmouth']y merchant, iheratus, of free 

j^^Y condition, forty years old and more. 

aijj XVI. John Rugge, mariner, of Yarmouth, illiterate, of free condition, 

JUNE ^^*-y years old. 

XVII. John Gierke of Gorlaston, agricultor, illiterate, of free condition, 
fifty years old. Heard Clement Felmyngham report to him at the Austin 
Friars in Southtown that Paston and Howes had given him a pension of 8 
marks a year for life, and 4OJ. for his servant, to say masses for the soul of Sir 
John Fastolf. Cannot witness of bribery otherwise. A little after Michael- 
mas, two years before Fastolf's death, William Worceter in Fastolf's name 
delivered possession of six of his manors in Lodylond, viz. Spytlyng in Gor- 
laston, Bradwell Hall in Bradwell, Hadlounde in Bradwell, Calcotes in Freton, 
Beytons in Belton, and Akethorpe in Leystoft, to Sir Thomas Howes and 
others, his co-feofFees named in a charter of enfeoffment, to the use of Sir John 
during his life, and to execute his will afterwards. This he knows, because he 
rode with Howes to the said manors when he took possession, and saw and 
heard Worceter deliver possession thereof. Thomas Torald reported to witness 
in Lent last that Paston and Howes had promised and paid him 20j-., besides 
his expenses, to give evidence in the proving of Fastolf's will, and had given 
each of his fellow-witnesses as much. 

XVIII. Robert Bunche of Yarmouth, mariner, liieratus, of free condition, 
fifty years old. Swears to having seen John Rus that Saturday at Yarmouth 
between seven and eight. [A marginal note says that being afterwards pro- 
duced as a witness by Paston, he admitted having been suborned, and having 
deposed falsely.] 

On the 2 2d July Yelverton's proctor, Naseby, produced in presence of 
Paston's proctor, Kent, two witnesses, viz. — Stephen Scrope, Esq., and— 
Richard Fastolf. 

XIX. Stephen Scrope, Esq., of free condition, seventy years old or about. 
Says he was several times with Sir John Fastolf in his manor of Caister within 
the two years before his death, when Sir John told him he had made his will,' 
and had ordered his executors to erect a college of six or seven monks and 
seven poor men at Caister, and that they should have lands and goods to the 
value of 300 marks a year, if a license could be obtained from the King to that 
effect ; otherwise that the number of monks at St. Benet's should be increased, 
and seven poor men supported in the monastery. [In the margin it is remarked 
that this witness proves nothing against the accused witnesses, but only endeavours 

"to depose concerning the will of the deceased.] 

XX. Richard Fastolfe, of the parish of St. Mary Eldermary, in London, 
• tailor, where he has lived for two years, and before that in the parish of St. 

Michael, Crokydlane, London, for a quarter of a year, formerly with the Duke 
of York, literatus, of free condition, thirty-two years old. Went to Caister 
about the Feast of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross preceding Fastolf's death, 
-along with one Thomas Plummer, scrlptor, of London, now deceased. Found 
Sir John walking about his chamber led by two servants, when Plummer 
petitioned him to help deponent with goods that he might marry, as he was one 
of Sir John's relations. To this Sir John made answer that he had within a 

244 



EDWARD IV 

few [days] preceding made his will, which he would not alter, and that he had 1466 
made mention of deponent therein. He also said to Plummer that if he had [y^^y 
come in good time, he should have written his will. and 

[Throughout all the above depositions will be found marginal comments in JUNE 
another hand, a few of which we have noticed incidentally, tending to show that 
the testimony given is insufficient to prove the bribery of Paston's witnesses, or to 
invalidate their statements.] 

' Responsiones personaliter factas per Johannem Paston, armigerum, xxix° 
die raensis Julii anno Domini M°CCCC1xt"', Indictione xiij% pontificatus 
sanctissimi in Christo patris et domini nostri, domini Pauli Divina providencia 
Papae Secundi anno primo, in domo habitationis venerabilis mulieris Elisabethae 
Venor in le Flete vulgariter nuncupat' infra parochiam Sanctae Brigidae Virginis 
in suburbeis civitatis London' situata, [et] x., xj., et xij™° diebus mensis 
Decembris anno Domini supradicto, Indictione xiiij"*, pontificatus dicti sanctis- 
simi patris domini Pauli Papas Secundi anno secundo, in domo thesaurarii 
ecclesias Cathedralis Sancti Pauli London' in parochia Sancti Gregorii civitatis 
London' situata, coram venerabili viro Magistro Johanne Druell, utriusque 
juris doctore, commissario et examinatore in hac parte specialiter deputato, in 
praesentia mei, Nicholai Parker, notarii publici, scribae in ea parte assumpti et 
deputati, de et super interrogatoriis per partem venerabilis viri domini Willelmi 
Yelverton militis et Willelmi Worceter, executorum testamenti domini Johannis 
Fastolf militis ministratis, productum.' 



640 

NOTE 

Extract from * An Index to Deeds and Writings in the Tower, 
Magdalen College, Oxford' 

* 34. The testimony of Th. Howes concerning the testament of Sir John 
Fastolf, touching which controversies arose between John Paston the elder, and 
Thos. Howes of the one party, and William Yelverton, Knight, and William 
Worcetyr on the other.' 



245 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

641 

EDWARD IV. TO THE BAILIFFS OF YARMOUTH 1 
By the Kinge (Edward the Fourth) ^ 

1466 ^ I ^RUSTY and welbeloved, we greet yow well, letting yow 
JULY 1 7 I wete that our trusty and welbeloved knight Sir John 
"*" Paston, our welbeloved WiUiam Paston, and Clement 
Paston, with other, have been before us and our councell 
worshipfuUy declared of the surmise of great charge that was 
laid on our behalfe unto John Paston deceased and them, 
jointly and severally ; so that we hold them and every of 
them sufficiently declared in that matter, and take and repute 
them as gentlemen descended lineally of worshipfuU blood 
sithen the Conquest hither ; and over that, have commanded 
that plenare restitution of the mannor of Castor, and of all 
other lands and tenements, with goods and cattell, that the 
said John Paston deceased had of the gift and purchase of Sir 
John Fastolfe, Knight, shall wholly be restored unto our said 
Knight Sir John Paston, like as the said John Paston deceased 
had in any time of his daies. Wherefore, in as much as our 
said Knight intendeth to make his abideing in Castor, we desire 
and pray yow that, for our sake and contemplation, ye will be 
friendly and neighbours unto him in his right ; and such 
other things as may be to his profitt and ease, wherein ye 
shall do unto us full and good pleasure. Yeaven under our 
signet in our Castle at Windsore the xvij'^ day of July. 

Subjoined to the above in Sandford's Genealogy is * the coppie of a warrant sent 

^ This letter is reprinted from the Norfolk Archt^ology, where it was first published 
by Mr. Worship from a transcript made by Sandford in his MS. Genealogy of the 
Paston family, compiled in 1674. Sandford states that 'the originall under the 
King's seale remaineth in the custody of Edward Paston, Esq.' The date is rendered 
certain by the warrant subjoined. 

* We have placed the words ' Edward the Fourth ' in parentheses, though they are 
not so printed by Mr. Worship, and are probably not so written in Sandford's MS., 
because we suspect that they were not in the text of the original document, but were 
added by Sandford by way of explanation. 

246 * 



EDWARD IV 

from Kinge Edward the Fourth to restore Sir John Paston to the lands and possessions 1 4.66 
which he purchased of Sir John Fastolfe, whereof the originall remaineth in the .„,„ 
custody of Edw. Paston, Esq.' It is addressed ' To all tenaunts, fermors, or occupiers •' ' 

of all the lands and tenements, and of every part of them, that late were John Paston's, 
Esq., now deceased, by way of inheritance, or Agnes Paston, Margaret Paston, 
William Paston, and Clement Paston, or any of them, and to all such persons what 
so they be, now being in the manner or place of Castor, or in any lifelode that 
was the said John Paston, Esq., by way of gifte or purchase of late Sir John 
Fastolfe, or of any other, within our counties of NorfF., SufF., and Norwich, and to all 
the tenants, fermors, baylies, or occupiers of the same, and of every part thereof; 
and to all mayers, shreves, eschetors, bayliffs, and other our officers, as well within 
franchise as without our counties aforesaid, hereing or seeing these our letters.' The 
King mentions in this warrant that * great part of the said lands, tenements, and 
manors had been seized into our hands ' 5 and the tenants, farmers, bailiffs, and 
occupiers of the said lands are charged thenceforth to pay the whole issues and profits 
thereof to Sir John Paston ; and the mayors, sheriffs, escheators, and others the King's 
officers are charged to be 'assisting, helping, and strengthening.' The warrant is 
' Yeven under our signet at Windsore, the xxvjV? day of July, the sixth yeare of our 
rejgne.' 



642 

ABSTRACT! ^ 

Latter clause of a writ oi supersedeas to an escheator directing him not to i466(?) 

make inquisition post mortem on the lands of John , until further notice, jy^y 20 

Westminster, 20 July. 

[From the time of year at which this writ is dated, it may have been issued after 
the death of John Paston, who died in May 1466, the inquisition on his lands not 
having been taken till October following. But it may possibly have applied to the 
lands of Sir John Fastolf, who died in November 1459, 'he inquisition after his death 
not having been taken till October 1460.] 



643 



ANCESTRY OF THE PASTONS 

The following document is derived from a transcript made by Sandford in the 
Genealogy mentioned in No. 641, and some previous papers, and is likewise reprinted 
from Mr. Worship's article. Prefixed to it In Sandford's MS. are these words; — 'The 
Briefe followinge was delivered to Edward Paston, Esq., amonge other evidence, by 
his uncle Clement Paston, and it is written in an old hand.' It would appear, 
however, from the wording, not to be a ' brief or abstract, as Sandford considered it. 



1 [From Paston mss., B.M.] 

247 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

but an extract from some certificate made in the King's name in behalf of Sir John 
Fasten, setting forth what had been proved on examination as to the gentility of his 
ancestry. 

THEY shewed divers great evidences and court rolles, how 
that they and their ancetors had been possessed of a 
court and seniory in the town of Paston, and of many 
and sundry bondmen, sithen the time that no mind is to the 
contrary ; and how that Agnes Paston, wife to the said William 
Paston, father to the said John, William, and Clement, in title 
of her dower, is in possession of bondholders, and also of 
bondmen, whose ancetors have been bondmen to the ancetors 
of the said John Paston sithen the time that no minde is to 
the contrary. And they shewed divers fines, some leavyed in 
the time of the begining of the reigne of our noble progenitor, 
Edward the First, son of Kinge Henry, son of King John, of 
liveloude whereof they and theire ancetors have been possessed 
ever since to this day. 

Also they shewed divers inquests which is matters of 
record. Also they shewed divers deeds and grants before 
time of mind, how that their ancetors had licence to have a 
chaplen and have divine service within them. And that divers 
of their ancetors had given lyvelyhood to houses of religion to 
be prayed for, and confirmacions under the Great Scale of our 
noble ancestor Kinge Henry the Third, son of Kinge John, 
confirming the same grants. 

Also they shewed divers old deeds, some without date, 
insealed under autenticke seales, of divers particular purchases 
in the town of Paston, reciting in the said deeds that the land 

was holden of the ancetors of the said Paston, 

as of the chiefe lord of the fee, and by homage, and had ward, 
marriage and reliefe. Also they shewed how their ancestors 
were infeoffed in divers men's mannors and lands in trust. 
Also they shewed a great multitude of old deeds, without 
date and with date, wherein their ancetors were alwaies sett 
first in witness, and before all other gentlemen. Also they 
shewed how their ancetors had, in old time and of late time, 
married with worshipfull gendemen ; and proved, by deeds of 
marriage and by other deeds, how their ancetors had indowed 
248 



EDWARD IV 

their wives, and by discents of livelyhood, and by testaments 
and wills of their ancestors under seale ; and made open by 
evident proofe, how they and their ancetors came lineally 
descended of right noble and worshipfull blood, and of great 
lords, sometime liveing in this our realme of Ingland. And 
also they made open proofe how they were nere of kin and 
blood to many of the worshipfullest of the country, and also 
nere to many and sundry great estates and lords of this realme, 
and was openly proved and affirmed, without contradiction or 
proofe to the contrary. 

They shewed how they had kept pl'ce with divers . 
. . and with Plays that had wedded the Earle Warren's 
daughter, the third yeare of Edward the First. They shewed 
a lineall discent, how their first ancetor, Wulstan, came out of 
France, and Sir William Glanvile together, his kinsman, that 
after founded the pryory of Bromholme by the towne of 
Paston and the towne of Bentley ; and how Wulstan had 
issue Wulstan, which bare armes gould flowret azure; and 
how he had issue, RafFe and Robert; which RafFe, senior, 
bare armes as his father, and Robert the younger bare silver 
flowret azure. And Robert had issue Edmund and Walter ; 
which Edmund the elder bare as his father ; and his brother, 
because he married Glanvile's daughter, a cheife indented gold, 
the field silver, flowret azure ; and how their ancetors after 
bare with lesse number ; and how Sir John Paston was heire 
to all those, for they died sans issue. And this was shewed by 
writinge of olde hand, and by old testaments and evidences. 



644 

WILL OF AGNES PASTON 1 

TO all to whom this present writting xal come, I, Agnes 1466 
Paston, late the wife of William Paston, Justice, send sept. 16 
greting in God everlasting, lating hem know that I, 
the forseid Agnes, of goode and hole mende, the xvj. day of 

» [From Paston Mss., B.M.] 

249 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1466 Septembre, the vj. yere of the reigne of Kyng E. the iiij'*' and 
SEPT. 16 the yere of our Lord a M'CCCClxvj., make and ordeyne my 
last will in al the maners, londes, tenementes, rentes, services, 
mesuages, and places, that ony person or persones bene seased 
of to myn use and behof with in Norwiche, Norffolk, Suffolk, 
Essex, Hertfordshere, or in any other shere with in Englond, 
praying and desiring al the personez so feffed to myn use, 
after this my will, writtyn and inceled under my seale, be 
shewed unto them, that they wol make astate to the persones 
lemited in my seid will according. 

And inasmoche as myn husbond, whos soule God assoile, 
dyverse tymes, and specialy among other the day of the moneth, 
rehersed to me that the lyvelod whiche he had assigned to his 
ij. yongest, William and Clement, by his will in writting, was 
so littill that they mizt not leve thereon, withouzt they shuld 
hold the plowe to the tayle ; and ferthermore, seying that he 
had dyvers oder maners, that is to say, the maner of Sporle, 
Sweynsthorp, and Bekham ; which maner of Bekham he was 
purposed to chaunge with the maner of Pagrave ; and if he 
myzt bring it abouzt, then xuld on of his ij. yongest sones 
have the seid maners of Sporle and Bekham, and no more, and 
the other yongest sone xuld have al the remenaunt. And he 
that had the maner of Sweynsthorp xuld be bound in a gret 
some to the prior of the Abbey of Norwiche, to paie dayly 
for ever to the monke that for that day singeth the masse of 
the Holy Goste in our Lady Chapell in Norwiche, where he 
purposed to leye his body, every day iiij^., to sing and pray for 
his sowle and myn, and al the sowles that he and I have hade 
any goode of or be beholdyn to pray for. And after that 

the ^ day of ^ next folowing my seid husbond 

lying seke in his bed, in the presens of John Paston, his sone 
and myn, John Bakton, John Dame, and of me, declared his 
will towching certein of his children and me, at whiche tyme 
he assigned to the seid John Paston the maner of Gressham in 
honde, and the revercion of suche lyvelode as he zave me 
after my decesse, askyng hym the question wheder he held 
hym not content so, seying to him in these termes, ' Sir, and 

1 Blanks in MS. 
250 



EDWARD IV 

thow do not I doo, for I will not geve so mekyll to on 1466 
that the remenaunt xal have to littill to leve on. At the sept. 16 
whiche ^ . 



645 
WILL OF AGNES PASTON2 

B. — And after that the day of the monethe my seyd 

husbond lyyng seke on hys bede sent for me, John Paston, 
Bakton, and John a Dame, to here hiis wyll rede ; and in owr 
presens all he began to reede hiis wylle, and spak fyst of me, 
and assynyid to me the maners of Paston, Latymer, and 
Schypden and Ropers, in Crowmer, for terme of my lyfFe, 
and the manerys of Merlyngforthe, Stonsted, and Horwel- 
bury, whyche wasse myn owne enheritans, and Oxned, whyche 
wasse my jontor, and [prayd me to hold me contente so, for] * 
hadde do to lityll to ony it wasse to me, for somme he faryd 
the better, and so devedede (i') he ded for not of hem all, but 
he hadde more to care for, wyche myn as well as hys. And 
than he red John parte, and assynyd to hym and to hys wyfFe 
the maner of Gressam, and after my desesse the maner of 
Oxned ; and he, thynkyng by John Pastons demenyng that 
he wasse not plesyd because .... 

C. — Swynne of slowyth that hiis wyll wasse not made up, 
but wot swm ever cwm of me. Dame, I wyll ze know my wyll, 
and seyd that swyche lond as he hadde not wrytyn in hiis wyll 
wott xwlde he do with all, he wold his ij. yongest sonnys, 
Wyllam and Clement, xwlde have, and owte of Sweynthorpe 
to have hiis perpetuell masse. And of thys prayd me to 
reporte recorde and berre wyttnesse ; in qwyche disposicion 
and intent he continuyd in on to the day of hiis dethe, and I 

1 Here the fragment ends at the bottom of a leaf written only on one side. 

2 [From Paston mss.] The following appear to be three separate fragments of an 
original draft of Agnes Paston's will, written on two sides of a small scrap of paper. 
Two of these fragments have the letters B and D prefixed to them, showing that they 
were intended as insertions in a part of the text now lost. 

3 These words are stnick through with the pen. 

251 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

darre rytgh largely deposse that that same wasse hiis last wyll 
the tyme of hiis dethe ; qwyche wyll immediatly after my 
husbondes decesse I hopynd and declaryd to John Paston and 
al the other executores of my husbond, desyeryng hem to 
have performyd it. And the seyd John Paston wold in no 
wysse agree ther to, seyying that by the lawe the seyd manerys 
xulde be hiis, in as moche as my husbonde made no wyll of 
hem in wrytyn, and gatte the dedis owte of my possession and 
estat of the feffees in the seyde manerys, myn unknowyng. 

And after that swyche tresowre of my husbons as wasse 
leyde in the Abbey of Norwyche by the seyd John Paston, 
John Bakton, John Dam, and me, to delyvere azen to us all, 
the seyde John Paston owte of the seyde Abbey unknowyn to 
the priour or ony oder person of the seyde Abbey, and with- 
owte my wetyn[g] and assente, or ony of owre felawys, toke 
and bare awey all, and kepyng it styll azens my wyll and 
all the tother executores wyllys, nothere restoryng the seid 
Wyllam and Clement to the forseyd land, nother recompensyng 
them of my husbonds tresor, and ordeynyng for my husbonds 
sowle in havyng of hiis perpetuell masse acordyng to his wyll. 
Werfor, in as moche as I know and understonde verrely that 
it wasse my husbonds wyll the tyme of hys dethe, that the 
seyd Wyllam and Clement xwlde have the seyd manerys of 
Sporle, Sweynsthorp, and Bekham, and the annuyte for hys 
perpetuell masse to be going owte of the seyde maner of 
Sweynthorp, and that the possessioners of the seyd manerys at 
thys day wyll in no wysse by any fayer menez or spekyng 
tender my seyd husbonds sowle and myn, ner perform the 
wyll of my seyd husbond, I wyll have and xall by the gras[e] 
of swyche lyvelode as I have in my possession, that is for to 
sey, the maners of Stonsted, Marlyngforthe, and Horwellbury, 
that swm tym wasse my faders and my moders, and cwm on 
to me by them as myn enheritance. And after my decesse if 
I wolde sofFer it to desend, xwld goo to the wronge posses- 
sioners of the seyd manerys of Sporle, Sweynsthorp, and 
Bekham, qwyche xall not be lettyd for me, but if it be thorow 
her owne defaute, make, sta[b]lesse and ordeyn myn husbonds 
perpetuell masse and myn, and of the remenaunt, as swerly as 
252 



EDWARD IV 

can be made by the lawe, I wyll the seyd Wyllam and Clement 
be recompensyd to the valew of the seyde manerys of Sporle, 
Sweynthorpe, and Bekkam, zerly [j<?<jr/y], on to the tyme that 
they be restoryd to the forseyd manerys of Sporle, Sweynthorp, 
and Bekkam, in lik forme, and lyke astat as xall be afterwards 
lymytyd in thys my last ^ [will ; chargyng and requiryng the 
seyd Wyllam and Clement that after that they be restoryd to 
the manerys of Sporle, Sweynsthorp, and Bekam, they restore 
myn heyres to Marlyngforthe, Stons[ted], and Orwelbury.] 



646 
NOTE 

In the Paston Genealogy drawn up by Sandford, to which we have several 
times before alluded, occurs another extract from the will of Agnes Paston, as 
follows : — 

* Also I bequeath to the Whight Fryers of the said city of Norwich, for I 
am there a suster, to helpe to pay hir [their~\ debts, xx//., which I will be 
gathered of the arrerage of my lyvelode. Also I bequeath to the auter of 
Gracion of the said House, whereas mine husband and I have a perpetuall 
masse, a vestment which they have for a prist to judge in or [jof^.~\ rede satern. 
Also to the mendinge of the chappell of our Ladie within the said place, 
whereas Sir Thomas Gerbrege, my grandfather, and Dame Elizabeth his wife, 
and Sir Edmond Berrye my father, and Dame Alice his wife, be buried, and 
Clement Paston my sonn.' 

647 
WILLIAM PASTON'S WILL ^ 

ON the Thurseday at nyght before Our Ladys Day the 
Assumpcion,^ betwixt xj. and xij. of the clokk, in the 
yer of Our Lord God MCCCC. and xliiij., the 
Sondays lettre on the D., died my husbond, God assoyle his 

* The word ' will ' is omitted in the MS., and the words ' my last ' repeated. What 
follows is crossed out. 

2 [From Fenn, iii. 15.] The following memorandum relative to the death of 
her husband was written by Agnes Paston, probably about the time she made 
her will. 

' The Assumption of Our Lady was the 1 5th August. 

253 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

sowle. And on the Fryday after I sent for John Paston, 
John Dam, &c. And on the Wedynysday after cam John 
Paston, &c. And on the Fryday John Paston, John Dam 
and I yede into the chambre, and they desyred of me to see 
the wyll. I lete them see it. And John Dam redde it ; and 
when he had redde it, John Paston walkyd up and down in the 
chambere. John Dam and I knelyd at the beddys fete. 



648 

ABSTRACT 1 

Roll of paper containing a draft in English of part of the inquisition on the 
death of John Paston, relating more especially to the foundation of FastolPs 
college. In the latter part the jury find that John Paston died on the 22nd 
May 2 last, and that Sir John Paston, Knight, is his son and next heir, and is 
of the age of 24 years and more. 

*^* Copies of the original inquisition, as returned into Chancery, and of that 
on the death of Sir John Fastolf, exist among the Paston Mss. in the Bodleian 
Library. 

649 

MARGARET PASTON TO JOHN PASTON s 

To my ryght wyrshypfull mayster^ Sir John Paston^ 
Knyzt, he thys letter delyveryd in hast. 

1466 nr GRYTTE you well, and send you God ys blessyng and 
OCT. 29 I myn, desyryng you to send me werd how that ye spede 
■^ in youre maters, for I thynk ryght leng tyll I here 
tydyngys from you ; and in alwyse I avyse you for to be ware 
that ye kepe wysly your wrytyngys that ben of charge, that it 
com not in her \their\ handys that may hurt you herafter. 
Your fader, wham God assole, in hys trobyU seson set more 

1 [Addit. Roll, 17,258, B.M.] 

2 The date in the inquisition returned into Chancery (6 Edw. iv., No. 44) is 
21st May. 

' [From Fenn, iv. 272.] The date of this letter is shown by the contents to be 
shortly after John Paston the father's death, probably in the same year. 



EDWARD IV 

by hys wrytyngys and evydens than he dede by any of 1466 
hys moveabell godys. Remember that yf the wer had from oct. 29 
you, ye kowd never gyte no moo such as the be for your 
parte, &c. 

Item, I wold ye shold take hyde that yf any processe com 
owte a yenst me, or a yenst any of tho that wer endyted a fore 
the coroner, that I myght have knowlych therof, and to purvey 
a remedy therfor. 

Item, as for your fader ys wyll, I wold ye shold take ryght 
gode counsell therin, as I am enformyd it may be prevyd, thogh 
no man take no charge thys twelfmonth. Ye may have a letter 
of mynystracyon to such as ye wyll, and mynyster the godys 
and take no charge. I avyse you that ye in no wyse take no 
charge therof tyll ye know more than ye doo yet ; for ye may 
verely knowe by that your unkell Will, seyd to you and to me, 
that thay wyll lay the charge uppon you and me for moo thyngy s 
then ys exprest in your fader ys wyll, the whych shud be to 
grete for you or me to here ; but as for me, I will not be to 
hesty to take it uppon me, I ensure you. 

And at the reverens of God, spede your maters so thys 
terme, that we may be in rest herafter, and lette not for no 
labour for the season, and remember the grete cost and charge 
that we have had hedyr toward, and thynk verely it may not 
lenge endur. Ye know what ye left when ye wer last at hom, 
and wyte it verely ther ys no mor in thys countray to here owte 
no charge with. I awyse you enquer wysely yf ye canne gyte 
any more ther as ye be, for els by my feth I feer els it will not 
be well with ous ; and send me word in hast hough ye doo, 
and whether ye have your laste dedys that ye fayled, for playnly 
they er not in thys contrey. It ys told me in consell that Ric. 
Calle hath nyer conqueryd your uncle Will, with fayre promyse 
twochyng hys lyflode and other thyngs, the whych shold pre- 
vayll hym gretly, as he sayth. Be ware of hym and of hys 
felowe be myn avyse. God sende you gode spede in all your 
maters. 

Wryten at Caster, the moreu next after Symon and Jude, 
wher as I wold not be at thys tyme but for your sake, so mot 
I ches. By your Moder. 



THE PASTON LETTERS 



650 

ABSTRACT! 

Sir James Gloys to Sir John Paston 

I466(?) Was at Snaylwell on Sunday, but could get no money. Most of the tenants 
NOV. 10 away at Canterbury or elsewhere. The rest said when you were there last you 
had given them till Candlemas, ' so that thei myght malt ther corn and brynge it 
to the best prefFe.' Warned them to be ready by Tuesday before St. Edmond 
the King, when Richard Calle would visit them. A thrifty man beside Bery 
is willing to take the farm ; but every one says the last farmer was undone by it. 
Advises Paston not to overcharge his farms. I have seen Catelyn's corn, and 
your tenants say it is sufficient to content you. Your shepherd wishes to know 
if you will continue him, for no one has spoken to him since my master your 
father died. Men of Fordham have occupied your ground these two years that 
my master has been in trouble. I think you should speak to my Lord of Wor- 
cester, as he and Woodhous are lords of the town. I have bid the farmers at 
Snaylwell sow some wheat land, and have warned the tenants at Sporle, Pagrave, 
and Cressingham to be ready to pay. Advises him to keep up his place at 
Langham's. If * my master ' had lived he would have exchanged it for the 
parsonage. Supped on Monday night at a place of the Duke of Suffolk's with 
the parson of Causton, a chaplain of the Duchess, * and they talked sore of my 
Lady's bargain, and were right sorry that she should forsake it.' The parson 
asserted that the feoffees had put her in possession of the manors. Talk over 
this with your counsel ; for if the feoffees be compelled to release in Chancery it 
will be nought, because of the estate they made before ; so when you expect to 
be most quiet you will be most troubled. There was also the parson of Bramp- 
ston, and he said W. Yelverton had sent a letter to the bailiff he has set at 
Guton, but what it meant I could not find out. W. Yelverton has put the 
parson of Heynford out of his farm. I did not speak with your mother before 
writing this, as she was at Caister. 
Norwich, St. Martin's Even. 

From the mention of John Paston the father as dead, and the trouble he had been 
in for two years, it would appear that this letter must have been written in 1466, the 
year of his death. The letter is endorsed in a contemporary hand : ' Liters anno vj. 
et vij. Edwardi iiij'"' 



1 [From Paston Mss., B.M.] 



256 



EDWARD IV 



651 

ABSTRACT 1 
Thomas Grene to William Yelverton, Esq. 

Desires his favour for Frere John Chesteyn and John Russe of Yarmouth, 1 466 
who are suspected by Lord Scales of having treasures or jewels of my Master dec. 22 
Paston's. He never trusted them with any, knowing they were familiar with 
William Jenney and Sir Thomas Howes. Is sure he put no treasure into any 
place in that town, religious or other, for he often said he wondered any thrifty 
man would live in it, 'there were so much riotous people therein.' Begs his 
favour for my mistress Paston, ' which is now under your governance.* Hopes 
to see her hereafter ♦ as worshipful and well at ease as ever she was, and a great 
deal better when these troubles be passed ; for I am sekir whan God woU that 
she be passed them she would not suffer them again for right great riches.' 

Norwich, morrow of St. Thomas Apostle. 

[This letter has a great appearance of having been written shortly after John 
Paston's death. We place it therefore in the year in which he died.] 



652 

SIR JOHN PASTON TO MARGARET PASTON 2 
To Mestresse Margrete Paston^ be thys delyveryd. 

PLEASE it yow to weete that I sende yow by Barker, the Date /^7f ^ 
barer herofF, iij. trade pottes of Geane \Genod\ as my uncer- 
potecarie swerytht on to me, and mooreovyr that they tain 
weer never ondoo syns that they come from Geane. Wheroff 
ye shalle take as many as pleasyth yow ; neverthe lesse my 
brother John sente to me for ij., therfor I most beseche yow 
that he maye have at the lest on. Ther is on potte that is 
morkyn ondre the bottome ij. tymes with thyes letteris M. P., 
whyche potte I have best truste on too, and nexte hym to the 
wryghe potte ; and I mystruste moost the potte that hathe a 

1 [From Paston Mss., B.M.] 

2 [From Fenn, iv. 264.] This and the two letters following are without any 
certain date, but they are all addressed to Margaret Paston, most probably after her 
husband's death. 

VOL. IV. R 257 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

Date krotte abovyn in the toppe, lesse that he hathe ben ondoone. 

unccr- And also the other ij. potty s be prentyd with that marchauntys 
tain marke too tymes on the coveryng, and that other pott is butt 
onys morkyn but with on prente, notwithstondyng I hadde 
lyke othe and promyse for on as well as for alle/ 

653 

ABSTRACT 2 
Edward Mawdby to his Niece Margaret Paston 

Has a tenant, a widow in Sail, building a house on his ground. She has 
been threatened with having it pulled down. Send for Aleyn Roos, ray 
receiver, and take his counsel what is to be done. 

London, 24 Nov. Signed * By your nevew Edward Mawdby ' ; although 
addressed ' my most trusty and well beloved niece.' 

ABSTRACTS 

E. Clere* to Margaret Pastom 

My little cousin your son ^ is a fair child. Wishes certain evidences of 
Frethorp, which she delivered to Margaret Paston's husband to make award 
between her and Rammesbury, a paper book of the customs of Ormesby and a 
roll called ' domysday,' &c. Your father-in-law ^ was of counsel both with my 
mother <" and with my mother-in-law.^ Supposes there may be other evidences, 
as of Tacolneston, Therston, Reynthorp, Rusteynes in Wymondham, Kesewik, 
and Stratton. Sends back some rolls brought by a man from Norwich, which 
belong to Margaret Paston and not to the writer. 



1 The signature of this letter, Fenn says, is torn off the original MS. 

2 [From Paston Mss., B.M.] 

3 [From Paston MSS., B.M.] 

* Elizabeth, widow of Robert Clere of Ormesby. She died in 1492. 

s This must be one of the younger sons of John and Margaret Paston. 

6 William Paston, Justice. 

' Margaret, wife of Thos. Owydale or Dovedale, of Tacolneston, daughter and 
heir of William Reeves. 

8 Elizabeth, daughter of Sir Philip Branch, and wife of John Clere, Esq. pf 
Ormesby; after whose death she married again Sir John Rothenhale. See No. 15 in 
vol. ii. 

258 



EDWARD IV 



(>55 

SIR JOHN PASTON TO JOHN PASTON^ 

ITEM, Arb[l]aster must mak a proctyr by yowr advyce, and 1466 (?) 
iff he lyst to make the seyd Master John Halfnothe he 
maye, elles he must sende uppe an other ; and he most 
also make a letter of waraunt to the seyde Master John Half- 
nothe undre hys selle by yowre advyce in thys forme : — 

Master John, &c. I recomande me, &c., letyng yow weet that I have 
made yow my proctor towchyng the testement off John Paston, Esquier ; wher- 
fFor I praye yow that ye on my behalve refFuce the admynystracion of hys seyde 
testamen, fur I woll nowt have ado ther with. Wherffo[r] loke that ye on my 
behalve refFuce all admynestracion, entresse or besynesse, that I myght have 
there by. And thys shewys yow my wyll here in, and shall be to yow a dys- 
charge att any tyme. No moor, &c. 

Yowr frend, James Arblaster. 

I wolde nat that myn oncle William scholde cawse hym to 
take on hym as hys felawe, for iff myn oncle William doo thus 
moche in the corte I suppose it may here afftre doo ease. For 
as God helpe me I cannot sey verrely iff my fadre (God have 
hys sowle !) agreyd that he shold be one, but in my sowle he 
never thowt that he sholde be, for he never namyd no moor 
butt my modre and me, and afftre, yow, whan I rehessyd myn 
oncle Clement, yow and Arblaster, and than he chase yow, 
seyng he thoght that ye were good and trewe. Kepe thys 
secrett. Iff myn oncle be noon executor, it maye happely 
brynge ageyn a trussyng coffre with CC. old peyse noblis, 
whyche he toke from me as executor. 

1 [From Paston Mss., B.M.] The ms. from which this letter is printed is a draft 
in the handwriting of Sir John Paston. There can be little doubt it was addressed to 
his brother John, and as it refers to the administration of their father's will, we place 
it in the year of his death. 



259 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

656 

JOHN RUSSE TO MARGARET PASTON * 

To the worshypfull and my right honorabyll maistresse, 
Maistresse Marget Paston. 

After I '\ IGHT worshipfull and myn right honourable and good 
1466 1^ maistresse, I recomaund me to you in my most 
humble wyse, besekynge youre maistresshyp to take 
no dyspleasure of the longe forberyng of youre mony, whiche 
is ix/f. xvjj. viiji^. now. Be my trouthe, Maister Fen had of 
me 1. marke at hyse beyng here fore custum, wherof a gret 
part is owyng me tyl I may be leysere ^ gather it up. I thynke 
of every day a wyke tyl ye be content, and I thanke God I owe 
not al the world so myche as I do you. In as goodly haste as 
I can, youre maistresship shal have it with ever my servise and 
preyer, for ye do a meritory dede ; it hathe savyd my pore 
honestie and gretly avayled me ; wher as if it had leyn in youre 
coferys, as, I doute not, a MV/. more dothe, no profit shuld 
have growe to any man ; it is a meritory dede to helpe them 
that mene trewly, whiche, for Godis sake, maistresse consedre. 
I truste I am of that substans that, what soever caswelte for- 
tunyd, yourre maistresship shuld not lese on pene of yourre 
dute. Every ourre (J) may be distreynid of myn the value of 
C. marke in shyppis and literys, and owe not but to you O., I 
dare afferme. Also, maystresse, ye have an obligacion of me 
of xl/i, a byll of xx//'., and abil of xx//., and a byll of x/z. ; for 
Godis sake, maistresse, spare me for a tyme, the rather for the 
affeccion that my maister s had to me, whos soule Jhesu assoyle. 
Hyse maistirshyp grauntyd me many tymez to have lent me of 
the dedys goodis xl//,, to have payd hym ageyn in v. yeer ; and 
so I doute not but I shuld have had if hyse maistirshyp had 
levyd. I lost a gret losse of hese departyng ; for hyse sake, 

1 [Add. MS. 34,889, f. 226.] This letter must have been written some time after 
John Paston's death, but probably not many years later. Compare No. 651. 

2 Sic. 3 John Paston. 

260 



EDWARD IV 

maystresse, shewe me the more favour. I intende not to After 
debarre you of oon peny, so Jhesu helpe me, but in as goodly 1466 
haste as I can to contente you ; be my trouthe, at thys seasun 
I have not in my pocession x. marke which is right litil, what 
casewelte that ever fortune. I am deseyvid of many men ; be 
my trouthe there is owyng me in thys town xl. marke of iij. 
yeer passyd, that thow I shuld go to prison I knowe not to 
have xxs. of ony of hem. Right worshypfuU and my right 
honourable maistresse, I beseke Almyghti Jhesu, ever preserve 
you from adversite. Maistresse, for the servise that to my 
pore powyr I aught my maister youre husbonde I am the werse 
by xx//. and more sylvir ; for Godis sake therfor, maistresse, 
yit favour me a season ; I aske not ellys. 

Yourre bedeman and servaunt, John Russe. 



657 

J. STRANGE TO SIR JOHN PASTON^ 

To my rith worchipfull and good master^ 
Ser John Paston^ Knyght. 

RYTH worchupful ser, after dewe recomendacion, plesyt Between 
zow to understond the cause of my wrytyng ys for a ^A^I-9 
maryage for my Masterys Nargery, zowr suster. For 
my nevyewe, John Straunge, wold make her sur of xl//. joynture 
and CC. marke be zer of inherytaunce ; and yf zee and zour 
frendes wole agreve herto, I trost to God that xall take a con- 
clusion to the plesur of God, and worchup to both partyes. 

Moreover, and yt plesyth zow to wete, I am sore troblyd 
with Bedston, as wele be the wey of tachements owte of the 
Chauncer as oderwyse. I must beseche zow of zowr good 
mastershepe and help in secrete maner as the Ser Thomas 

* [From Fenn,iv. 286.] This letter being addressed to Sir John Paston touching 
a proposal of marriage for his sister, must have been after the death of his father in 
1466, and, of course, before the actual marriage of Margery Paston to Richard Call, 
which seems to have taken place towards the close of 1469. 

261 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

Between Lynes, the brynger of thys, shall enforme zow. I xall be att 
1467-9 London in the begynnyng of thys terme, be the grace of God, 
qwych preserve zowe. 

Wretyn att Norwych in hast, the Monday after Twelthe 
Day. 

By yowr, J. Strange. 



658 
SIR JOHN AND LADY HOWARD 1 

1467 r I ^HIS wrytenge made at London the vj'* yer of Kynge 
jA>*. 22 I Edward the iiij. and the xxij. day of Jenever wyt- 
■^ nesseth what stoffe my master Sir John Howard hath 
delyverd to ray Lady his wyfe in this monyth of Jenever. 

Ferst ij. rynges of goolde set with good dyamawntes, the 
wyche the quene yaff my master. 

Item, a rynge of goolde with a fyne rubye. 

Item, a nowche of goolde set with a fyne safyre, a grete 
balyse and v. perles. 

Item, my master yaff here a fyne pece of holand clothe as 
good as Reynes conteynenge in length xl. yerdes, the yerde 
was wele worth iiijj. 

Item, my master gaff her a noder pece of holand clothe, 
corser, conteynenge in lengthe more than xl. yerdes, the yerde 
was worthe ijj. iiij^. 

Item, my master gaff her a longe gowne of fyne cremysen 
velvet furred with menyver and purfeled with ermynes. 

Item, my master gaff her a longe gowne of fyne grene 
velvet furred with menyver and purfeled with ermynes. 

Item, my master gaff her vij'''' scynnes of fyne ermynes. 

Item, my master gaff her vij. yerdes and di. of fyne grene 
velvet. 

Item, my master gaff here vij. yerdes of cremyson velvet. 

1 [Add. MS. 34,889, f. 51.] The date is taken from the head of the document, 
but there are additions of later dates to January 14.68. 

262 



EDWARD IV 

Item, my master gaff here a devyse of goolde with xliij. 1467 
lynkes and the ton halffe of the lynkes enamyled set with iiij. jan. 22 
Ruby is iij. dyamawntes and vij. perles. 

Item, my master gaff her an nothe devyse of goolde of the 
same fassyon with odre xiiij. lynkes, and theryn vij. Rubyis 
and vij. perles. 

Item, my master gaff her a gyrdyll of clothe of goolde and 
the barneys of goolde. 

Item, my master gaff her a gyrdyll of grene damaske and 
the barneys of sylver and gylte. 

Item, my master gaff her iij. edges of blak velvet set with 
Iviij. perles. 

Item, my master gaff here a longe gowne of blak velvet 
furred with martrys and purfeled with marteres. 

Item, my master gaff her a longe gowne of murrey furred 
with menever and purfeled with ermynes. 

Item, my master gaff here a coler of goolde with xxxiiij. 
roses and sonnes set on a corse of blak sylke with an hanger of 
goolde garnyshed with a saphyre. 

Item, my master gaff her iiij. owches of goolde garnyshed 
with iij. rubyis, a saphyre, an amytes, an emerawde and xv. 
perles. 

Item, my master gaff here a peyr of bedes for a gentyl- 
womannes nekke gawdeid with viij. gawdeid of goolde and 
viij. perles. 

Item, a rynge with a grete saphyre. 

Item, my master gaff her a nother ryng with an amytes. 

Item, my master gaff her iij. Agnus Dei of goolde. 

Item, my master gaff her a gret sygnnet of goolde with 
the vernycle. 

Item, my master gaff her v. odre ryngis of goolde withowt 
stones. 

Item, my master gaff her a cheyne of goolde with a lokke 
of goolde gernyshed with a rubye. 

Item, my master gaff her a lytell gerdyll of sylke and 
goolde called a demysent and the barneys of goolde. 

Item, my master gaff her a longe of vyolet engreyned 
furred with martres and purfeled with martres. 

263 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1467 Item, the xviij. day of Feverer my master delyverid to 

JAN. 22 jny Lady to have to Braye a bed of cremysen damaske em- 
browdered with Cyle counterpoynte and testour all affter one. 

Item, the same day my master delyverid my Lady a bede, 
a cyle, a counterpeynt and a testor of Aras with out goolde. 

Item, a pece of Aras for hangenge conteynenge in length 
xj. yerdes and iij. quarters. 

'tem, a nother pece of Aras conteynenge in length viij. 
yerdis and iii. quarters. 

Item, a nother pece conteynenge vij. yerdis a quarter and 
di. in length. 

Item, a nother pece of Aras conteyneng v. yerdes and iij. 
quarteres in length. 

Item, delyverd to my said Lady iiij. peces of new Aras 
wyche cam late fro Caleys wereof on is a covertore fore a 
bedde and the todde [sic] iij. ar tapettes conteynenge all iiij. 
peces in flemesh elles square C iiij'''' xij. 

Item, my master left at London at his departynge to 
Braye in his place in Bathe Rowe the xx. day of feverer ij. 
brede clothes of Blewe. 

Item, the vij'^ yer of Kynge Edward the iiii'^ and the xvj. 
day of March, my master sent to my Lady to Bray a longe 
coshon of cremesen velvet and iij. schorte coshones of cremesen 
velvet. Item, a longe coshon of grene velvet and ij. short 
cushones of grene velvet. 

Item, the same tyme my master delyverd her a cheyne of 
goold of the olde facyon prise iiij. markis. 

Item, the yere above said and the xvj. day of Apryll, my 
master delyverd to my Lady v. sylver spones. 

Added in Sir John Howard's own hand : — And the vij. zere 
of the kenge and in the monithe of Janever I delyvered my 
wyfFe a pote of selver to pote in grene genger that the kenge 
gaffe. 

On the back of this ms. is the following unfinished memorandum : — 
♦ M"* that I John Legge hawe bownde mey self to John Osberne yn an 
oblygacyon ' 

264 



EDWARD IV 

659 

JOHN PASTON TO SIR JOHN PASTON ^ 

'To my mastyr^ Sir John Paston^ ^ogyng 
in Fie ts tret y be thys delyveryd. 

SYR, lyekyth it yow to wet that thys day my modyr sent 1467 
me your lettyrs, wer by I undystand, blessyd be God, jan. 27 
all thyng standyth in good wey. Also I undyrstand by 
your lettyr sent to my modyr and me that ye wold have your 
lyvelod gadyrd as hastyly as we myght do it. Syr, as to that, 
and othyr folk do no wers ther dever [devoir'] in gaderyng of 
othyr manerys then we have don in Caster, I tryst to God 
that ye schall not be long unpayid ; for thys day we had in 
the last comb of barly that eny man had owyth in Caster 
towne, not with standyng Hew Awstyn and hys men hathe 
crakyd many a gret woord in the tym that it hathe ben in 
gaderyng. And twenty comb Hew Awstyns man had doun 
cartyd redy for to have led it to Yarmowth. And when I 
herd ther of I let slype a sertyn of whelpys that gave the cart 
and the barly syche a torn that it was fayn to tak covert in 
your bakhous system at Caster halle, and it was wet within an 
owyr aftyr that it cam hom, and is nye redy to mak of good 
malt all, ho ho ! William Yelverton hathe ben at Gwton and 
hathe set in a new bayly ther and hathe dystreynyd the ten- 
auntis, and hathe geve hem day till Candyllmas to pay syche 
mony as he axyth of hem. Also the seyd Yellverton hathe 
ben at Saxthorpe, and hathe dystreynyd the fermour ther and 
takyn of hym swerte to paye hym. And thys day the seyd 
Yelverton and viij. men with hym, with jakys and trossyng 
dobletis all the felawshep of hem, wer redy to ryd ; and one 
of the same felawschep told to a man that sye hem all redy 

* [Add. MS. 33,597, f. 3.] This letter appears to have been written in the year 
1467, like No. 661, which bears date eleven days later. Besides what is said here of 
Yelverton, note the reference to John Grey and John Burgeys, whose names appear 
in the other letter also. 

265 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1467 that they shuld ryd to tak a dystres in sertayn maners that 
JAN. 27 wer Syr John Fastolffys; wherfor I suppose veryly that they 
be to Gwton and Saxthorp. Wher for to morrow I purpose 
to send Dawbeney thedyr to wet what they do, and to comand 
the ^ tenauntis and fermors that they pay no mony to nobody 
bot to yow. John Grey, othyrwyse callyd John Delesbay, and 
John Burgeys they be Yelvertons kapteyns, and they ryd and 
go dayly, as well in Norwych as in othyr plasys of yours and 
othyr menys, in the contre in ther trossyng dowblettis with 
bombardys and kanonys and chafeveleyns, and do what so 
ever they wyll in the contre ; ther dar no pore man dysplese 
theym, for what so evyr they do with ther swordys they make 
it lawe ; and they tak dystressys out of mens howsys, hors or 
catell, or what they wyll, thow it be not on that for that they 
ask the dwte for. Wher for, me thynkys with esy menys ye 
myth get a prevy seall of the Kyng to be dyrectyd to the 
meyer of Norwyche, as for the towne of Norwyche, and for 
the countre a nothyr prive seall, dyrect to me and to som 
othyr good felaw, Syr William Calthorp, for he hatyth Grey,^ 
for to arest the seyd felaws for syche ryot and to bryng hem 
to the next prison, ther to abyed with out bayle tyll syche 
tym as the Kyng sendyth othyrwyse woord, and they that the 
prive sale shall be dyrect to, to be chargyd vpon peyne of ther 
alegeans to execut the Kyngis comandement ; and, this done, 
I warant your lyvelod that my lord delys not with shall be 
gadyrd pesybylly. As to that lyvelod that my lord clemys I 
shall do my dever, our logyng kep, to tak as myche profyt of 
it as I may by the grase of God, Whom I pray send you the 
acomplyshement of your hertys desyir, and other por folys 
thers. All my felawshep ar mery and well at ease, blyssyd 
be God, and recomandyth hem all on to yow. Wretyn the 
Twesday next befor Kandylmas. — Your brodyr, 



J- p- 



* 'the' repeated in MS. 

' * Syr William — Grey ' is an interlineation. 



266 



EDWARD IV 

660 

T. DAVERSE TO SIR JOHN PASTONi 

To my right good mayter^ Sir John Paston^ Knyght. 

MY right especiall good mayster, I recomand me to yow, i^6y{^) 
thankyng you right hertely of your gentell letter late jan. 29 
send to me. And as to Pynchester mater, &c., I 
wulde I were youre nygh kynnesman, yef hit plesed God, and 
than shuld I know yef hit shuld greve your herte asmeche as 
hit dothe other of my kynne and frendes to see me thus 
cowardly hurte and maimed ^ by Pynchester, causeles ; and of 
myn entente in that mater, Wylliam Rabbes shall telle you 
more. All so I beseche yow to recomand me to my Lordes 
good grace, as to hym whom of erthely estates, next my dewte, 
I moste love and drede, and that shuld he well knowe and hit 
lay in my power, praying you hertely to declare his Lordship 
such mater as Wylliam Rabbes shall enfourme yow, and to 
send me my Lordes answere. 

All so in asmoche as I understode by yow that money 
shuld cause you conclusion in your mater this next terme, and 
ye wuU be at London on Monday at nyght or Tewsday by 
none, I truste that I have studyed such a mene that, up on 
surete as ye may make, to gete yow an C//. or CC. mark to 
be lante un to yow for an halfe yere, with oute any chevys- 
shaunce or losse of good by yow, as Wylliam Rabbes shall telle 
you more, &c. 

' [From Fenn, iv. 172.] The precise date of this letter is by no means certain. 
Fenn dates it merely between 1463 and 1469 ; but if it be ' my Lady of Oxford,' and 
not ' my Lord,' who is spoken of near the end {see page 268, footnote 2), it may be 
many years later. The Earl of Oxford was committed to the Tower in the latter 
part of the year 1468. In 1470 he took part in the brief restoration of Henry vi., 
and on the return of Edward iv. he was obliged to quit the country. If the Earl, 
therefore, is alluded to as living in England, the date cannot well be later than 1468. 
Probably it is about the year 1467. In that year the 29th January fell on a Thurs- 
day, which would allow a reasonable time for the writer to suggest to Sir John Paston 
the expediency of his being in London on Monday or Tuesday following. 

2 The words ' and maimed ' are inserted from the right-hand copy in Fenn. 
They are not in the left-hand copy, having been overlooked, apparently, by the 
transcriber. 

267 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1467 (?) And as to Ovyde ' De Arte Amandi,' I shall send hym 
JAN. 29 you this next weke, for I have hyt not now redy ; but me 
thenkeyth Ovide ' De Remedio ' were more mete for yow, but 
yef [unless] ye purposid to falle hastely in my Lady Anne P.^ 
lappe, as white as whales bon, &c. Ye be the best cheser of 
a gentell woman that I knowe, &c. And I pray you to re- 
comaunde me to my Lord of Oxford," and to my goods 
Maysters Nedeham, Richemond, Chyppenham, Stavely, Blox- 
ham, Stuard, and Ingulton in speciall, and all other good 
masters and frendes in generall, &c. And, sir, Maystres 
Gaydade recomand me [? her] to yow and said bessyng fare 
for charite, and she said me she wuld fayne have a new 
felet, &c. 

Wreten at London, this xxix. day in Janyver. 
With herte and servyse your, 

T. D.' 



661 

JOHN PASTON TO SIR JOHN PASTON* 

1467 ^^ YR, it is so that thys Saterday John Rus sent me word 
J'EB. 7 ^^ by Robert Botler, that William Yelverton hathe ben 
^^ thys iij. dayis in Yermothe for to get new wytnessys up 
to London ; and, as it is thowt by the seid John Rus and 
Robert Botler, ther wytnessyng is for to prove that it was Sir 
John Fastolfs wyll that ther schold be morteysyd iij.*^* mark by 
yer to the colage, and also that syche astat as my fadyr took 

* Who my Lady Anne P. was I cannot tell. The expression * as white as whale's 
bone ' is rather a strange one. 

2 The modem version in Fenn reads * my Lady of Oxford,' but * my Lord of 
Oxford ' is right. 

^ Fenn says this subscription is explained by * T. Daverse ' being written under 
the direction, as he believes, in the hand of the receiver. 

* [From Fenn, iv. 276.] This letter must have been written in February 1467. 
It was evidently after Sir John Paston had succeeded to his father's estates, but before 
any arrangement had been come to between him and Yelverton. It will be found 
hereafter that on the nth January 1468 Sir John Fastolfs executors, including 
Yelverton, released their rights in Caister and other manors to Sir John Paston. On 
the back of this letter, Fenn says, is written in an ancient hand, ' Testes idonei ad 
negandum veritatem, ut patet infra.' 

268 



EDWARD IV 

her at Caster at Lames next befor that Sir John Fastolf dyid, 1467 
was delyveryd to my fadyr to the intent for to perform the f^^. 7 
seyd wyll. 

Bartholomew Elys, John Appylby, and John Clerk ar the 
wytnessys ; and as for Bart hew Elys, he is owtlawyd, and also 
men say in Yermowthe that he is bawde betwyx a clerk of 
Yermowthe and hys owne wyfe ; and as for John Appylby, he 
is half frentyk, and so take in the towne, notwithstandyng he 
is an attorny, as Barthew Elys is, in the Baylys Coort of 
Yermowthe ; and as for John Clerk of Gorleston, he is owt- 
lawyd at Sir John Fastolfys swte, and at dyvers othyr menys, 
notwithstandyng he is thorow with Sir T. Howys^ for Sir 
John Fastolf, for thys cause, that the seyd Clerk was on of Sir 
T. Howys ^ last wytnessys befor thys. 

I trow John Loer shall be anothyr wyttnesse. As for 
Barthew Elys and John Appylby, they lye thys nyht at 
Blyborowgh onward on her wey to Londonward. Make good 
weche on hem. 

I pray yow send us some good tydyngs. Wretyn the 
Saterday, lat at nyght, next aftyr Kandylmas Day. 

I pray yow remembyr John Grey and John Burgeys. We 
have hom the most part of your barly, save fro Wynterton, 
and that I trost to have this next wek, or ellys we wyll strat 
[distrain ?] for it by the grace of God, whom I beseche mak 
yow good. 

I thynk ther comyng up is for to dysprove your wyttnessys 
that he had in to the Chancery. 

J. P.^ 

* Fenn has * Sir Thowys ' in his left-hand copy, which we cannot help thinking a 
misreading of ' Sir T. Howys.' 

2 Fenn says this letter * has neither subscription nor date ' ; nevertheless these 
initials stand at the foot of the text as he has printed it. 



269 



THE PASTON LETTERS 
662 

SIR JOHN PASTON TO JOHN PASTON 1 

I'd my brother, John Paston. 

1467 I '\ YGHT worschypful and verrely welbelovyd brother, I 
MARCH 1-^ hertely comande me to yow, thankyng yow of yowr 
labor and dyligence that ye have in kepyng of my 
place at Castr so sewerly, both with yowr hert and mynde, to 
yowr gret bisynesse and troble ; and I ageyn warde have hadde 
so lytell leyser that I have not spedde bot fewe of yowr erendys, 
ner kannot befor thys tyme. 

As for my Lady Boleynes ^ dysposicion to yow werds, I 
kannot in no wyse fynde hyr a greable that ye scholde have 
her dowter, for all the prevy meanes that 1 kowde make, inso 
moche I hadde so lytell comfor by all the meanes that I kowde 
make, that I dysdeyned in myn own p[e]rson to comon with 
hyr ther in. Neverthelesse, I undrestande that sche seythe, 
* What if he and sche kan agre I wyll not lette it, but I will 
never advyse hyr therto in no wyse.' And uppon Tewesday 
last past, sche rood hom in to Norfolke. Wherfor as ye 
thynke ye may fynde the meane to speke with hyr yowr selfe, 
for with owt that, in myn conceyt, it wyl not be. 

And as for Crosseby, I undrestand not that ther is no 
maryage concluded betwen them, neverthelesse ther is gret 
langage that it is lyke to be. Ye be personable, and per- 
aventure yowr beyng ones in the syght of the mayde, and a 
lytele descuveryng of your good wyl to her, byndyng hyr to 
kepe it secret, and that ye kan fynde in yowr hert, with som 
comfort of hyr, to fynde the meane to brynge suche a mater 
abowt as schall be hyr pleasur and yowrs, but that thys ye 

^ [From Fenn, iv, 326.] This letter is evidently of the same year as No. 666 
following, and a little earlier in point of date. 

' Anne, widow of Sir Geoffrey Boleyn. She was daughter of Thomas, Lord Hoo 
and Hastings. Sir Geoffrey had by her three daughters, of whom the youngest, Alice, 
is here referred to. This Alice was afterwards married to Sir John Fortescue. 

270 



EDWARD IV 

kannot do with owt som comfort of hyr in no wyse ; and ber 1467 
yor selfe as lowly to the moder as ye lyst, but to the mayde march 
not to lowly, ner that ye be to gladde to spede, ner to sory to 
fayle. And I alweys schall be your herault bothe her, if sche 
com hydder, and at home when I kome hom, whych I hope 
hastly with in xl. dayes at the ferthest. My modre hathe a 
letter, whych can tell you mor, and ye may lat Dawebeney 
se it. John Paston, K. 

I suppose and ye kail welle upon R. Calle, he schall purvey 
yow mony. I have wretyn to hym inow. 



663 

RICHARD CALLE TO SIR JOHN PASTON 1 

To my ryght reverent and worschipfull mayster^ Sir 
John Paston^ Knight. 

PLESITH it you to wete that I have spoken with Henre april 3 
Inglouse, and I fynde hym disposid weele ; hough be 
it he hath be labored to nough of late be divers, never- 
theles he woU not come withoute he have a suppena, and if he 
come up be suppena, he can sey nor nought woU sey, any 
thynge that schulde be prejudice or hurte to your mater, and 
so he hathe tolde them that hath labored to hym for it, weche 
hym thynkyth causith them to have no grete hast to have hym 
up. He tellith me that the Abbot of Langley schal come up 
and Wichyngham. Thes have her writtes of suppena delyverd 
unto them. Also ther cometh up Doctor Vergraunt and Frier 
Bernard. And as for Robert Inglouse, I have spoken with 
hym, and I fynde hym no thyng so weele disposid as his 
brother is ; he hath be sore labored be the meanes of my Lord 

1 [From Paston mss., B.M.] This letter seems to relate to the summoning of 
witnesses to London for the probate of Fastolf's will, and being addressed to Sir John 
Paston, we may presume that it was written in the year after his father's death, and 
before the final settlement of the dispute. 

271 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1467 of NorfFolk and of my Lord of Suffolk ; he seyth largely that 
APRIL 3 he knoweth moche of this mater, seyng to me that if he schulde 
be examyned be for a juge, he wolde my master your uncle ^ 
wer his juge, for he knoweth the mater as weele as any man. 
He seith if he be sworn be fore my Lorde Chaunceler, he woll 
desire of my Lord that Maister William schulde be sworn as 
weele as he ; nevertheles I have so mevyd hym that withoute 
ther come a suppena for hym he woll not come, as he seth it 
is hard to truste hym. It were weele doo if ther were no 
suppena out for hym to cauce that ther schulde non come, 
nouther to hym nor to hes brother, &c. I can not undre- 
stonde of no moo that schulde come up yet, but I schal 
enquere, and sende you word as hastely as I can. I have not 
spoken with John Maryot yet, but I schall speke with hym 
within this iij. dayes and sende you worde. &c. 

Ferthermore, sir, like you to remembre the lees of the 
maner of Sporle ; your fermours goth out at Michelmes next 
comyng. Henry Halman wolde have it for his sones, and if 
be schulde have it he wolde wete at this tyme, be cauce he 
wolde somerlay ^ and tylle the londe, otherwise then it is ; it 
were tyme to lete it, wo so ever schulde have it. Henry woll 
geve for it but xx/z. ; wherfor, if ye wol that he have it, plese 
you to sende word how we schal do with all, &c. Almyghty 
Godde spede you in all youre maters, and sende you hastely 
a goode ende in hem. Wreten at Castre on Friday next after 
Esterne Day. 

Your own Servaunt, Ric. C. 

1 William Paston. 

2 Halliwell gives the expression 'to summerland a ground' which is used in 
Suffolk, meaning to lay it fallow a year. For this he refers to Ray. 



272 



EDWARD IV 

664 

[WILLIAM PASTON] TO SIR JOHN PASTON^ 

'To my right worshipfull nevew^ Sir John Paston^ 
knyght. 

MYNE suster,^ Arblaster^ and I have apoyntyd that we 1467 
chall kepe no howsold this terme,* but go to horde ; april(?) 
wer for we avyse zow to purvay for us a logyng ner 
a bowt my lord Chanseler that be honest, for Arblaster will 
non oder. 

Item, as for zow, we avyse zow in any wyse gete zowr 
chamer assynyd with in my Lordis place, and gete chamer a 
lone iff ze may, that Arblaster and I may have a bed ther in 
ziff it fortune us to be late ther with zow. 

Item, take hed to get suyrtees for the pore men that come 
up and that they may be sent hom a zen forthe with with owt 
taryyng, and take avyse so that the proses may so go forthe 
that they may be qwett at the next assyssys ; take avyse of 
Townysend. 

As for Yelverton, fynd the menys that he speke not with 
my Lord till we come. ' 

Iff any labore be mad to my Lord to asyne men to here 
the mater indefferently, make labore to my Lord that the men 
be nat namyd till we come, for we can inffurme hym soche as 
be parciall be ther dedis here affore, qweche peraventure my 
Lord wold thynk wer indefferent i now till he be infurmyd ; 
it may be answerid be my Lord that he will nat prosede no 

* [Add. MS. 33,597, f. 8.] This is not a formal letter but a set of memoranda on 
a long slip of paper. It is in the handwriting of William Paston, son of the 
judge, and addressed to his nephew, Sir John. The date may be about April 1467. 
See No. 663. 

2 This must be his brother John's widow, Margaret, who was in London in the 
spring of 1467. See No. 662, p. 271. 

3 James Arblaster, a confidential friend of the family. 

* Easter term began on the 15th April in 1467. 

VOL. IV. S 273 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1467 farther in the mater till Arblasters comyng and myn for we 
APRIL (?) can best infurme the mater. 

Item, send a letter to Richard Kalle and to Sir Jamys 
Gloys to come up to London in any wyse. For ther is no 
man can do in dyvers materis that they can do in answeryng 
suche mater as Zelverton wyll ley a zen zow. And also they 
can best mak the bill that ze schuld put a zens hem ; and ther 
for remembre. 

Item, wrythe a letter to myn suster for the C. marcs for 
my Lady SofFolk, for we have no verry dyrect answer of her 
weder sche wyll send it ar nat. 

Item, speke to zowr atorney in the Kyngis benche that he 
take hed to all maner indytamentis both old and new and to 
all oder materis that hangyng ther. 

Item, do Pampyng comyn with owr sperituall concell suche 
mater as nedyn ther. And have newe wretyn the attestacion 
that lakkyn. The same man that wrott the oder may wrythe 
that. For Zelverton mad gret avawnt that ye schuld be 
hyndrid in that. 

Wrythe a letter to myn nevew John zonger to come up to 
prove the wyll. 

Speke with Sir Gilberd Debenham qwill he is in cownt to 
leve uper Cotton. 

Item, Zelverton, Howys and Worceter make meche that 
, we have put them owt off possescyon of the lond ; qweche 

they sey is contrary to my Lord Chanseler comandement, and 
in trowth Sir Jamys and Calle meche spokyn to the tenantis in 
my lordys name ; For Zelverton thynketh that he may now 
breke the trete. Qwer for, take a vyse her in off M'^ Tresham 
and of Master Staneley, and informe my Lord how my broder^ 
qwas all way in possescion till he was put owt for the mater of 
bondage, and how ze fynd the colage, and qwat an hurt it wer 
to zow in noyse off contre iff any oder man schuld now receyve 
any proffitis off the londis. They will labor that indefferent 
men schuld receyve, and that wer nat good. My Lord may 
say that he will end the mater, but as for the possescyon, he 
will nat put zow owt. Labor this in all hast posible. 

* John Paston, son of the judge. Dead in 14.66. 
274 



EDWARD IV 

I pray yow send me an answer of all such thyngis as 1467 
requirith an answere in this contre, for Arblaster purposeth april (?) 
to be with yow on Sonday sevenygth and I purpose to be 
with yow ij. dayes afore. 

665 

SIR JOHN PASTON TO JOHN PASTON^ 

MY hand was hurte at the torney at Eltham upon april 
Wednesday last. I would that you had been there 
and seen it, for it was the goodliest sight that was 
sene in Inglande this forty yeares of so fewe men. There was 
upon the one side, within, the Kinge, my Lord Scalles, myselfe, 
and Sellenger ; and without, my Lord Chamberlyn, Sir John 
Woodvyle, Sir Thomas Mountgomery, and John Aparre, &c. 
By your brother, 

John Paston, Mil. 

666 

JOHN PASTON TO SIR JOHN PASTON 2 

SYR, plesyth yow to weet that my modyr and I comonyd 
this day with Freyr Mowght to undyrstand what hys 
seying shall be in the coort when he cometh up to 
London, wheche is in this wyse : — He seyth at syche tyme as 
he had shrevyn Master Brakley, and howsyllyd hym bothe, he 
let hym wet that he was enformyd by dyvers personys that the 
seyd Master Brakley owt for to be in gret consyens for syche 
thyngys as he had doone and seyd, and causyd my fadyr, 
whom God asoyle, for to do and seye also, in proving of Sir 

^ This extract from a letter of Sir John Paston to his brother is quoted in Sand- 
ford's MS. Genealogy of the Paston family, and is here reprinted from Mr. 
Worship's article on that genealogy in the Norfolk Archaology. The original letter I 
have not been able to find. The tournament here referred to probably took place 
shortly after Easter. The next letter is evidently written in reply to this. 

2 [From Fenn, iv. 330.] This letter appears by the contents to have been written 
more than a week after Easter. The year must be 1467, as the dispute with Yel- 
verton touching Sir John Fastolfs will seems to have come to an end before the 
January following {jee No. 680). In 1467 Easter Day fell on 29th March. 

275 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1 467 John Fastolfys wyll. To whom the seyd Mastyr Brakley 
APRIL answerd thus agayne : ' I am ryght glad that it comyth to 
yow in mynd for to meve me with thys mater in dyschargyng 
of my consyens ayenst God,' seying ferther mor to the seyd 
Freyr Mowght, be the wey that hys sowle shold to, that the 
wyll that my fadyr put into the coort was as veryly Syr John 
Fastolfys wyll as it was trew that he shold onys deye. This 
was seyd on the Sonday when the seyd Brakley wend to have 
deyid then. On the Monday he revyvyd a yen, and was well 
amendyd tyll on the Wednysday, and on the Wednysday he 
sekyned a yen, supposyng to have dyeyd forthe with. And 
in hys syknes he callyd Freyr Mowght, whyche was confessor 
on to hym, of hys owne mosyon, seyng on to hym in thys 
wyse : — * Syr, wher as of your owne mosyon ye mevyd me 
the last day to tell you aftyr my consyens of Sir John Fastolfys 
wyll lyek wyse as I knew, and now of myn owne mocyon, and 
in dischargyng of my sowle, for I know well that I may not 
askape, but that I must dye in hast, wharfor I desyr you that 
wyll report after my dethe, that I took it upon my sowle at 
my dying that that wyll that John Paston put in to be provyd 
was Syr John Fastolfys wyll.' And the seyd Brakley dyid the 
same Wednesdaye. 

And wher as ye wold have had Rychard Calle to yow as 
on Sonday last past, it was thys Twyisday or I had your lettyr; 
and wher as it plesyth yow for to wyshe me at Eltam, at the 
tornay, for the good syth that was ther, by trowththe I had 
lever se yow onys in Caster Hall then to se as many Kyngs 
tornay as myght be betwyx Eltam and London. 

And, syr, whar as it lyekyth yow to desyir to have know- 
lage how that I have don with the Lady Boleyn,^ by my feythe 
I have don nor spokyn nowght in that mater, nor not wyLl do 
tyll tyme that ye com horn, and ye com not thys vij. yer. Not 
withstandyng, the Lady Boleyn was in Norwyche in the week 
aftyr Estern, fro the Saterday tyll the Wednysday, and Hey- 
dons wyfe ^ and Mastras Alys ^ bothe, and I was at Caster, 
and wyst not of it. Hyr men seyd that she had non othyr 

1 See Note 2, p. 270. * Anne, second daughter of Sir Geoffrey Boleyn. 

' Third daughter of Sir Geoffrey Boleyn. 

276 



EDWARD IV 

erend to the towne but for to sport hyr; bot so God help me, 1467 
I suppose that she wend I wold have ben in Norwyche for to april 
have sen hyr dowghter. I beseche yow with all my hart hye 
yow horn, thow ye shold tery but a day ; for I promyse yow 
your folk thynk that ye have forgetyn hem, and the most 
part of them must depart at Whytsontyd at the ferthest, they 
wyll no lenger abyd. And as for R. Calle, we can not get 
half a quarter the mony that we pay for the bare housold, 
besyd menys wagys. Daube nor I may no mor with owt 
coynage. Your, J. Paston. 

667 

ABSTRACT 1 

* Bill indented ' i May, 7 Edw. iv., between Sir John Paston and Thomas may 1 
Lomnor, whereby the latter sells to the former an ambling horse * upon this 
condition, that if the marriage betwixt the Lord Charles, son and heir to the 
Duke of Burgon, and the Lady Margaret, sister to our Sovereign Lord the 
King ' take effect within two years. Sir John agrees to pay 6 marks for the 
horse on the day of the marriage; but if it do not take effect within that 
period he will pay only 40 shillings. 

[There is a modern copy of this document in the Heralds' College, in the collec- 
tion called Brooke's Aspilogia, vol. i. f. 47, where a drawing is given of Sir John 
Paston's seal, which seems to have been attached to it when the transcript was made. 
It has been since removed at some time or other.] 



668 

THE DUKE OF NORFOLK TO SIR JOHN HOWARD ^ 
The Due of Norffolk. 

RYGTH trusty and enteerly beloved cousyn I comaunde may ii 
me to you with all myn herte. And lyke it you to 
wete that God hath vyset me with grete infirmite and 
dissease, wherthurgh I neyther can nor may at this season and 

1 [From MS. Phillipps, 9735, No. 192.] 

2 [Add. MS. 34,889, f. 59.] The famous tournament between Lord Scales and 
the Bastard of Burgundy took place at Smithfield on the nth and 12th June 1467. 
See Excerpta Historica, 176 This paper is evidently a copy of the original letter. 

277 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1467 comynge of the Bastard of Burgoyne attende to th'execucion 
MAY 18 off myn ofFyce, as my wyll and duete were to, in myn owne 
persone. Wherfor of verray necessite I must depute suche a 
person in all goodly hast to ocupye as my deputee and to have 
my full power undere me at that season as is bothe of byrthe 
honorable and one all other wyse lykly. How be it that of 
long tyme contynnuynge I have ben enured of your stedfaste 
and preved feythful good cosyngnage and tendyrnesse to me 
shewed unfeyned to my gret refute^ and hertes ease at all 
seasons. Wiche emboldeth me to call uppon you now ; and 
also remembrynge the honour of the offyce doynge and the 
neighnesse of blode that ye be of to me, I thenke no person 
so convenable to ocupye in myn absence as you. For myn 
excuse, therfore, I specyally pray you, as my feythfull truste is 
holy in you, to take the labour uppon you and to do theryn be 
your discrecion to the most honour of the kynge, the realme, 
and be lyke as I am asured that ye can and wyll, puttynge 
you in surete that I wull become tributary to your costes and 
charges in that behalve. And as for all suche duteis as schall 
belonge to me at that tyme by reason of myn offyce, I gyff 
theme you for parcell of your said costes ; and at such tyme 
as ye and I and myn counsell mete next ye schal not fayle to 
be agreid with, to your pleasure for the residue, by Goddis 
grace, Wiche ever preserve you. And, cousyn, I sende you 
be the berer herof the double of this lettre, praying that ye 
will subscribe it with your owne hande and send it me a geyn 
be hym. Wryten under my signet the xviij. day of May. 

To my rigth trusty and rigth enteerly belovyd cousyn^ 
Sir John Howard^ knygth. 

And this letter is assigned with my lordes own hande. 

1 Sic in MS. 



278 



EDWARD IV 



669 

SIR JOHN HOWARD! 



THIS wrytenge 
Edward the 
nessyth what 

geveth at the fytenge 

of Burgoyne. 
John Alpherde 
Brome 

William Noryse 
Herry Straunge 
Robert Cumberton 
Hastynges 
John Fowler 
John Nyter 
Thomas Moleyns 
John Waleys 
Robart Thorppe 
John Bleaunt 
Thomas Thorppe 
Davy Horell 
Robert Cooke 
Robart Gierke 
John Hobbes 
Wynche 
John Wady 
William Fernwale 
RafF Barlyscose 
Thomas Seynclew 
Whyttebye 
Kechyn 



made at London the vij* yer of kyng 1467 

iiij* and the ^ day of June wyt- junb 

Jakettes my master Sir John Howard 
betwyx my Lord Scales and the Bastard 

John de Spayn 

Jenyn Saunpere 

John Kyngton 

Lytell Edmond 

John Coles 

Thomas Mershe 

Rechard Leder 

John Gylder 

Rechard Waleys 

Ravenysbye 

Thomas a Chambre 

Thomas Whytenge 

Thomas Grymston 

Roger Jewell 

Colson 

John Squyre' 

Scarlett ^ 

WiUiam West* 

John Dykynson 

Thomas Bowden 

William Denny 

John Starkeweder 

George Hardwyn 

Thomas Caunterbury u> 



1 [Add. MS. 34,889, f. 61.] 2 Blank in MS. 

3 These two names, John Squyre and Scarlett, are bracketed together, and the 
name • Alford ' written opposite. 

* Opposite this name is written ' Wal ' in the margin. 

279 



THE PASTON LETTERS 



1467 Dyott 

JUNB Robart Messcden 
John Mynshe 
Richard Pulton 


William Yngram 
John Brodebryge 
Aleyn Cowper 
Rechard Roger 


John Wakeleyn 
Nicholas Shaicerley 
Hew Flynte 


Herry Cooke 
Edward Holman 
Rechard Halbroke ^ 


Thomas Newton 


Robart Sleper 


William Gierke 
Robart Nosbet 
Herry Nudygate 


John Cheynour 
John HyUe 




670 


JAMES GRESHAM TO SIMON DAMME « 



To my worshipfull cosyn^ Symond DammCy [at\ Lyncoln Inne, 
at London^ [be] this delyvered. 

I467(?) T^ IGHT worshipfull sir, and as in my trost my veray 
JULY 2 r^ speciall good maister, I recomande me to you with 
al the servyce I can and may. Lyke it you to wytte 
that I have do my bysynes to enquere for suyche dedes as ye 
wrot for on to me, and, so God me helpe, I can not wytte 
where I shuld spede to have ony suyche dedes. I spak to a 
persone that is your good lover, the whiche tolde me that ther 
was a gret plee bytwene my Lord of Suffolk and Sir John 
Fastolf for the maner of Drayton, for whiche matier William 
Wysetre was sent to enquere for evydencez touchyng the 
Pooles lyvelond in suyche places as thei were lords of in their 

1 Opposite this name is written * chad ' in the margin. 

2 [From Paston Mss., B.M.] As this letter has reference to the disputes between 
the Duke of Suffolk and the Paston family about Drayton, it might be supposed to 
have been written about the year 14.64, but that the entire absence of any mention of 
John Paston the father makes it probable that the true date is after his death. It is 
therefore not unlikely to be of the same year as No. 671, in which Margaret Paston 
mentions the probability of Hellesdon being taken again out of their hands, and also 
desires an answer to a letter that she had sent to her son, Sir John, ' by James Gresham's 
man.' 

280 



EDWARD IV 

dayes. And the seid Wysetre fonde evydencez that touched 1467 (?) 
a maner called Mundham maner, sum tyme longyng to the Ju^y 2 
Pooles that were owenners of Drayton, the whiche evydences 
eased meche Sir John Fastolf ; but the seid persone that en- 
fourmed me of this can not telle the armes, ne what evydencez 
tho shuld be in certeyn, savyng he thynkyth indoubted that 
William Worcetre shuld not be unremembred of this. Wher- 
fore it is thought to the same persone that enfourmed me of 
this and by me also, that it shuld be expedyent for you to 
comune of this matier by your wysdam with the same William 
Wysetre, now beyng at London, for he by lyklyhod can telle 
you a certeynte. And as touchyng my maister. Sir Thomas 
Mongomery, I trost veryly that he nothyr hath ne shall have 
cause of grudger by my defaut, for I can not understond ony 
cause of grudger ; for ever whanne my cosyn Damme ^ hath 
spoken with my seid malsters attourne to have knowelage by 
writyng of what thyng shuld be the cause of callyng on you, 
he answerith that my maister, W. Paston, hath a bille therof, 
but my cosyn can non gete. Wherfor I deme that the seid 
attourne meneth not weel. I entende noon other but in als 
meche as in me is to se your indempnyte with the grace of 
God, who ever mote be your guyde and protector. Wretyn 
at Norwich the ij. day of Juylle. 

Your servaunt in that he can and may 
to his powar, 

I, James Gresham. 

Cosyn, an noon after this was wretyn, had I knowelage of 
the massageris comyng to London berar of this, and I had 
thought to have wretyn the letter above wretyn newe, by 
cause of the foule wrytyng and interlynyeng, but now I lakke 
leyser. Wherfor I pray you understond the pyth of my seid 
wrytyng, and enfourme my seid maister Sir John P. of the same, 
for I wold fayne do that shulde please hym, &c. And the 

1 As it appears by the postscript that this letter was hurriedly despatched,'we may 
perhaps presume that it was intended in the first instance for Sir John Paston, but 
that as 'my cousin Damme' required to be informed of the same particulars, it was 
afterwards addressed to him, with instructions to communicate the contents to Sir 
John. 

281 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1467(0 persone that enfourmed me dar not be a knowe of his name, 
JULY 2 ne he wold not it shuld be understond to them that be of 
counsell ageyn my maister. It was the parson of Heylesdon, 
&c. More over, as I have wretyn to you of late, Palmer, 
undershireve of Norffolk, hath sent his letter to his depute to 
acomplyssh our entent for Chyldes matier as ye and I were 
accordet. This told Wykes me for verray certeyn, &c., the 
ij. day of Juylle. 

On the back of this letter are some scribblings in another hand, viz. : — First, a 
partial copy of the address; second, the name 'John Dode'j third, the following 
inscription, ' Orate pro anima Johnnes (sic) de Boys armenger de Londonn/ 



671 

MARGARET PASTON TO SIR JOHN PASTON 1 

To Sir John Paston, Knyght, be this delivered in hast. 

1467 T CRETE you wele, and send you Godds blissyng and myn, 
JULY 1 1 I letyng you wete that Blykklyng of Heylesdon came fro 
London this weke, and he is right mery, and maketh 
his best that with in this fourtnyght at Heylesdon shuld be 
bothe new lords and new officers. And also this day was 
brought me word fro Caystr that Rysyng of Freton shuld 
have herd seid in diverse places, ther as he was in Suffolk, that 
Fastolf of Coughawe maketh all the strenght that he may, and 
proposith hym to assaught Caystr, and to entre ther if he may, 
in samych that it is seyd that he hath a v. score men redy, and 
sendyth dayly aspies to understand what felesshep kepe the 
place. Be whos power, or favour, or supportacion that he 
wuU do this, I knowe not ; but ye wote wele that I have ben 

1 [From Fenn, iv. 294.] This letter must have been written some time after Sii 
John Paston had obtained possession of Caister by virtue of the King's warrant 
the 17th July 1466 (No. 641), and before the Duke of Norfolk laid claim to it agair 
in 1469. Thus the date is certainly either 1467 or 1468. But in the latter year Sii 
John Paston and his brother were both in Flanders at the marriage of the Princes 
Margaret to the Duke of Burgundy ; and Daubeney could not have been with them 
as he was when this letter was written, for John Paston the younger says he had sen' 
him five shillings by Calle's man. Thus 1467 appears to be the only year possible. 

282 



EDWARD IV 

affrayd ther befor this tyme, whan that I had other comfort 1467 
than I have now, and I can not wele gide ner rewle sodyours, J^^"'' * ^ 
and also thei set not be a woman as thei shuld set be a man. 
Therfor I wold ye shuld send home your brothers, or ell[es] 
Dawbenye, to have a rewle, and to takyn in such men as wer 
necessary for the safFegard of the place ; for if I wer thcr 
withought I had the mor sadder or wurchepfuU persones 
abought me, and ther comyn a meny of knavys, and pre- 
vaylled in ther entent, it shuld be to me but a vylney. And 
I have ben abought my liffelode to set a rewle ther in, as I have 
wretyn to you, which is not yet all performed after myn 
desyre, and I wuld not goo to Caystr till I had don. I wuU 
no mor days make ther abowtyn if I may ; therfor in any 
wyse send sume body home to kepe the place, and whan that 
I have do and performed that I have be gunne, I shall purpose 
me thederward if I shuld do ther any good, and ell[es] I had 
lever be thens. 

I have sent to Nicholas, and such as kepe the place, that 
thei shuld takyn in sume feles [fellows] to assiste and strengh 
them till ye send hame sume other word, or sume other man 
to governe them that ben therin, &c. 

I marvayll gretly that ye send me no word how that ye do, 
for your elmyse [enemies] begynne to wax right bold, and that 
puttith your frends bothyn in grete fere and dought. Therfor 
purvey that thei may have sume comfort, that thei be no more 
discoraged ; for if we lese our frends, it shall hard in this 
troubelous werd [world] to kete them ageyn. 

The blissid Trynyte spede you in your mater, and send 
you the victory of your elmyse, to your herts eas and ther 
confusyon. Wretyn at Norwich, the Saterday next befor 
Relyke Sonday,^ in hast. 

I pray you remembre wele the maters that I wrote to you 
for in the letter that ye had be James Greshames man, and 
send me an answer ther of be the next man that comyth, &c. 

Be your moder, 

M. P. 

1 Relic Sunday (the third Sunday after Midsummer Day) was the 12th July in 

1467. 



THE PASTON LETTERS 
672 

DECLARATION OF SIR THOMAS HOWYS* 

1467 I ^E it knowen to all men that this present wrytyng shall 
J"^^ ^^ ij ''sde, see, or hyre. Forasmoche as I understande 
•^-^ nowe late ther ys a newe contryved processe concern- 
yng the variaunce uppon my maister Sir John Fastolf is testa- 
ment and last will, whos soule God assoyle, made by Sir John 
Paston, Knyght, and his CQunsell in the seyd Pastons name 
and myne, ayenste Sir William Yelverton, Knyght, and William 
Worcetter, that is exhibited and putte in my lordys courte of 
Audience be fore his auditoure, me unwetyng or assentyng, 
in the vigille of Seint John Baptiste ; in wheche processe ys 
surmyttyd and made mencion that William Worcetter in his 
owne persone, and by others in his name, hathe promysed and 
gevyn money to corupte certayne wytnesse to depose untreuly 
in a processe exhibit in John Pastons lyf tyme by Sir William 
Yelverton, Knyght, the sayd William Wissetter ayenste John - 
Paston decesed and me; and wheche witnesse were Stephan 
Scrope, Squier, Richard Fastolf, gentilman, Thomas Neve, 
gentilman, William Boswell, clerk, John Monke, Nicholas 
Churche, John Rugge, John Daunson, Richard Home, Thomas 
Pykeryng, Harry Clerk, John Tobye, Thomas Hart, Thomas 
Neuton, John Gyrdyng, Thomas Spycer, and others, frome 
the moneth of August into the moneth of March, the yere 
of Cryst M'^-CCCClxv., yn Yermouthe, Castre, Fretenham, 
Bloofeld, Thetford, Brundale, Wroxham, Borough, Southe- 
toune, Yermouthe, Gorleston, Suthewerk, Norwych, and Lon- 
don ; so they to be corupted in all the forseyd named tounes 
wyth prayer, price, and money to hem promised and gevyn, be 
syd har expences, her costs, and her labours, to be conducted 
to depose with Sir William Yelverton and William W-orcetter- 
partye ayenste the seyd John Paston and mee : I the sayd 
Thomas Howys so made partye, and unwetyng and assent- 
yng, a yenste the [said] ^ Sir William Yelverton and William 

raitoVf (Pa^«r V\ * [From a ms. in the tower of Magd. Coll., Oxford.] 2 Omitted in MS. 

284 



EDWARD IV 

-Worcestre, sey and afferme for trouth in this matyer to be 1467 
knowen, that for declaracion of trouth in this processe and Ju«-v *» 
mater, and for the discharge of my conscience and the trewe 
acquietall to my sayd Master Fastolf that putte me in grettyst 
charge of hys testament, and for grete remorse I have in my 
soule of the untrewe forgyng and contryvyng certayne testa- 
mentes and last wyll by naked wordes in my sayd Maister 
Fastolf name aftyr he was desesyd ; y, in the name of the 
seyd Sir William Yelverton and William Worcetter, required 
and prayed the sayd above named witnesse and alle other 
wytnesse produced in Sir William Yelverton and William 
Wyssetter name before that tyme, excepte the forsayd Stephan 
Scrope, Esquier, and Richard Fastolf, to come to London, and 
appere in my lords house of audience before his auditour, and 
there to say, depose, and witnesse the trouthe as they knewe 
in especiall, in the absense of John Russe, Sir Robert Cotiler, 
late vycar of Castre, Robert Botyler beyng oute of the chamber 
of Sir John Fastolf, Knyght, there he lay seke in his maner of 
Castre, the Saterdaye next before the seid Sir John Fastolf 
discesyd, namely, from viij. tylle xj. atte belle afFore mydday, 
and present in other placez, where diverse of the sayd named 
wytnesse and diverse other witnesse sawe ham. And the sayd 
Worcestre nother promysed ne yave hem gode, money, nother 
reward, neyther relessed no debtes, not soo nought payed not 
for har costes, nother dispenses by the wey comyng to London, 
taryeng, ne returnyng a yen, that lawe and reson wold under- 
stonde the sayd witnesse ought have for har costes and labours, 
weche was payed by my handes, I beyng present dayly and 
tymely diverse tymes most conversaunt at Jermuth wyth 
hem ; and in especiall whan they taryed more than xxiiij. 
dayes in London or they coude be examyned ; and I knowe 
well the sayd Sir William Yelverton, nouther the seyd William 
Worcestre promysed ne payed no maner money ne godes 
worth, nouther relessyng har dutes, yf any they axed they 
knowe yt not, as the seyd named witnesse wylle sey and 
certyfye the trouth. And as for ij. witnesse called Bunch 
and Shave, lete hem be examynyd, yf the seyd Sir William 
or William Worcestre fyrst procured, moved, or excited hem 

285 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1467 at Yermouth, or any other place, to come to London to depose 
JULY 2 1 in the said maters, or promysed or payed hem ony money, or 
any man for ham promysed or payed ; and yf they be of trewe 
disposicion, they woll discharge the seyd Sir WiUiam Yelverton 
-and William Worcestre, for ther was none in especial! but 
I, that labored hem alle to come to London to my lordis 
audience yn the seyd Yelvertons and Worcestre names ; but I 
pryncipally required them to depose treuly as they knewe, be 
the owte promyse, mede, rewarde, or money, yn the discharge 
of my conscience, and for the trouthe of the mater to be 
knowen to all the worlde, as I am redy to preve, whyle God 
lendeth me lyffe, and yn the same quarell to dye. And I 
evyr seth that I understode the seyd John Paston is untrewe 
demenyng in the contryvynge of my Maister Fastolf testament 
and last wille, and was compellyd to appere before my lord ys 
auditour at Lambyth, to be sworn atte my ffree will to declar 
the trouth of my seyd maister trewe testament and last wyll 
befor my seyd Lord of Canturbury is auditur of his courte of 
audience, I nevyr varyed ne held aftyr wyth John Paston, but 
alwey have ben stedfast wyth the processe that I have en- 
fourmed my Lord of Canterbury, and divers others astates 
also in like wyse have declared to the sayd Sir William 
Yelverton and William Worcestre to procede, and soo evyr 
woll be stedfaste. And in witness for trouth, I sele this 
declaracion wyth my signet, and subscrybe it wyth my hand 
and name, in presence of Maister John Prentyse, Sir Edmond 
Hall, John Smyth, John Robynson, Thomas Hoore, John 
Bullok, and Richard Batilmewe, the xxj'^ day of Jule the yer 
of Crist M^'CCCC^^ lxvij°. 

T. HowYS. 



286 



EDWARD IV 



673 

JOHN PASTON TO HIS MOTHERS 

RYGHT worchepfuU modyr, I recomand me onto you, i467(?) 
lowly besechyng yow of your blyssyng. Plesyt yow 
to we [j/V] that my brodyr and I be in good hele, 
blyssyd be God, and all our felawshep ; and as for me I tryst 
to God to . . . yow by Halowmes or within iiij. dayes aftyr 
at the ferthest ; at whyche tyme I tryst to fynd the menys 
. . . dyscharge yow of syche folk as ye kepe of my brodyrs, 
and that must I do by myn owne menys ; for as for my 
brodyr, by my trowthe he is not of power to do it ; for this I 
ensure yow, so God help me, he hathe at thys season not a 
peny in hys purs, nor wotys not wher to get eny. And as for 
Bekham I warant, and ye wyll send the plate whych ye and I 
comond of for to helpe to paye hys dettis, and for to swe 
forthe for hys jwgement thys terme, it shoU neythyr be mor- 
gagyd nor sold. Wherfor, modyr, I and he bothe beseche 
yow that ye wyll send hym the plate by Jwde ; or ellys, so 
God help me, I wot not how he shall do ; for by the feythe 
that I ow to God he lokyth every day to be arestyd, and so I 
wene he sholl, so God helpe me. Jwde had ned to be sped 
hastyly lest syche arestys falle in the tyme. And as for my 
Lord of Norffolk, it is promysed me to have hys good lord- 
shep, but I must tery a whylle, as my Lady told yow, for the 
maners sake. And as for tydynges her, so God help, neythyr 
the Kyng nor the Lordis can as yet undyrstand no serteynte, 
whedyr they shall go togedyr ayen by the werre or not. 
When I here the serteynte I shall send yow word. Ye may 
send mony by Jwde for my sustyr Annys hood and for the 
tepet of sersenet, viijj. a yerd of damask and vs. for sarsenet ; 

1 [Add. MS. 34,889, f. 196.] The date of this letter is difficult to fix, but from 
the two brothers being together (which was rather a rare occurrence), and both in 
good health, the summer of 1467 seems not improbable, (See No. 671.) The date 
must at least be earlier than Nov. 1469, when Sir John Paston, as we shall hereafter 
find, actually executed an indenture for the sale of East Beckham. It seems quite 
impossible, moreover, that this letter can be of the year 1469. 

287 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

I467(?) hyr hood wyll take iij. quarters. No mor for lak of leysei 
but I pray God send yow your hertis desyir and othyr por 
folys thers. — Your sone and humbyll servant, 

J. Paston. 



674 

SIR JOHN PASTON TO LORD BEAUCHAMPi 
To the Lord Bechampe ^ 

AND forasmuch as I am credibly enformed that my lore 
of Winchestre hath sent to you desiring that ye sholc 
ensele dyvers writinges of graunt and relesse of you 
estat in alle such maners, londes and tenementes as late wer o 
J. Fastolf knyght, and wheryn ye togider with other be jointl] 
enfeffed to th' use of the seid J. Fastolf, I, considering th 
honorable disposition and great sadnesse of my seid lord o 
Winchestre which^ hath now taken upon [him]* th' administra^ 
cion of testament of the seid J. F., trusting veryly that mj 
seid lord wol as conscience requireth consider my title anc 
interest in that behalf, praie you right hertely that not with 
stonding any labour or mocion on my part or for me in tym( 
passed made to you to ensele any writyng of graunt or reless( 
of your seid estat to me or to myn use, that ye wol nov 
ensele and perfourme the entent and desir of my seid lore 
of Winchestre now made unto you. 

Sir John Paston, k. 

Indorsed : Dominus de Bewchamp. 



* [Add. MS. 35,251, f. 25, B.M.] This letter apparently was written in 1467 
probably in August, just before No. 675. The original is a corrected draft. 

* This address is written in the margin, with a note a little way below : * To myi 
oncle Wylliam in lyke forme.' 

3 Here occurs an interlineation of an incomplete clause: *is fefFe of the seid 

{iMord crossed out) and also therein and .' 

* Omitted in MS. 



288 



EDWARD IV 

675 

NOTE 

The following is an extract from * An Index to Deeds and Writings in the » 
Tower, Magdalen College, Oxford ' : — 

Documents relating to Norf. and Suffolk y No. 47. 

'Thomas Archiep. Cant., Willielmus Episcopus Winton., et Johannes 1 467 
Beauchamp dominus de Beauchamp, juxta formam barganiae et effectum ultimas ^^q^ 28 
voluntatis Johannis Fastolf in curia Audientiae, &c., concedunt Johanni Paston 
militi totum jus in maneriis de Castre vocatis Vaux, Bosoms, et Redhams, 
Spensers in Heringby, Reggisley, Reps, cum aliis terris in diversis villis ; 
necnon in manerio de Guton cum advocatione ecclesiaj de Heinford in Sax- 
thorp vocat. Loundhall, cum aliis terris in diversis villis, et in manerio de 
Caldecots et Akethorp, Spitlings, Habeland, &c., habit, ex feoffamento Rad. 
dom. de Sudley et aliorura. 



Aug. 28. Edw. IV. 7. 



676 



ABSTRACT! 

A small slip of paper close written on both sides with accounts of wages, aug. 3 1 
In the margin on one side is the name John Braham, with the memorandum, 
• Thys wrytynge, made the iiij"* yere of Kynge Edward the iiij"", and in the 
monyth of Novembre, wytnessez of the wagez that my master payith to his 
men.' A blank seems to have been left below this at first, but it was after- 
wards filled up in a different hand : ♦ Memorandum that the v' yer of Kyng 
Edward the iiij* I rekenyd wyth my master at Stoke ; and on the v. day of 
Aprylle for the yerys that I have be wyth my mastyr, whesche shal be at 
Hocke Monday next cumyng v* yer and an halfe ; for the whesche yerys I 
have reseyvyd at sondery tymeys yl't. and iiijj., and thys seyd v. day I reseyvyd 
of my master v. marcs.' 

On the other side, in the first hand, is an account extending from the nth 
April, 5 Edw. iv. (1465) to the last day of August, 7 Edw. iv. (1467), of 
payments to a female named Rose,^ for wages by *my master,' Braham and , 

Thorpe. These sums vary from 3J. 4^/. to 2>s. 4^., at a time ; but there are 
also two items for presents made to her, viz. for 4 ells of Holland cloth at 
8|i/. the ell, 2s. lO^J.y and for a pair of hosen, iid. On the 7th Oct. 
6 Edw. IV. (1466) it" is said, 'My master toke her for wages at Stoke, 5/.* 

1 [From Paston mss., B.M.] 

' It appears by other letters that she was a servant ' dwelling before Mrs. Paston'* 
gate.' 

VOL. IV. — T 289 



THE PASTON LETTERS 



677 

NOTE 

The following is another extract from the Index referred to in No. 675 : — 

1467 * 12. Concessio Joh. Paston mllitis Johanni Duci Norfolk et aliis manerii 

OCT. 2 sui vocati Hemnales in Cotton in Com.' SufF., ac manerii sui de HaynfoFd, et 

advocationis ecclesias ejusdem in Com.' NorfF., habit' ex dono Th. Archiepisc. 

Cant, et Willielmi Episc. Wynton., cum littera attor. ad deliberandum seisinam. 

Oct. 2. Edw. IV. 7.' 



678 



ABSTRACT 1 

Petition of John Herlyng of Basyngham to ' Lady ' Paston 

1467 Requests * her Highness ' to confirm some grants of her late husband to him 

or later ^^ ^^°'^ ^^ Basyngham. William Swan claims, and has taken from him 2 perches 
of ground in breadth near his (Swan's) gate, which has always been parcel of 
Herlyng's tenement of Greyve's during his and his father's time. John 
Pykerell, too, has made mean to the Abbot of St. Benet's to remove a boundary 
stone which has stood there sixty years. Pykerell also took the writer's horse 
and used it in his field without leave, on Friday before the Exaltation of the 
Holy Cross, 6 Edw. iv., which made the beast unserviceable till Fastegong next 
following. Pykerell has also done him other injuries. 

[As this petition refers to the * Fastegong ' or Shrovetide after Holy-Rood Day 
6 Edw. IV. as a past date, it cannot have been drawn up earlier than the year 1467. 
The manor of Basingham, in Norfolk, belonged to the Mauteby family, and came 
to John Paston by marriage. This paper, therefore, was addressed to his widow 
Margaret.] 



1 [From Paston mss., B.M.] 



290 



EDWARD IV 



679 

CECILY DAWNE TO SIR JOHN PASTON 1 

jTo the right worshipfull^ and with my faithful hert and service 
full entyerly beloved gode maister^ Sir John Paston. 

RIGHT worshipfull Sir, and with my faithful! herte and 1463-7 
service full entierly beloved gode maister, in my moste nov. 3 
humble wyse I recommaund me unto your goode 
maistreship. Pleace it the same to wite that I thenke right 
longe to I have veerey knolege of your welfare, the which 
undrestande wil be to me right grete comfort. And that 
causeth me to write unto you as nowe. And also to late you 
wite that I herde reperte ye shuld be wedded unto a Doughter 
of the Duchez of Somerset, which mater, and I spake with you, 
I couth enforme your maistership that were to longe to write 
as nowe. But I shal and do pray God dayly to sende you 
such one unto your worldes make that wil drede and faithfully 
unfeyned love you above alle othir erthely creatures. For that 
is most excellent richesse in this worlde, as I suppose. For 
erthely goodes bene transsitory, and wedding contynues for 
terme of lyfe, which with some folke is a full long terme. 
And therfore, Sir, savyng your displeasir, me semez wedding 
wolde have goode avysement. Moreover, Sir, like it your 
maistership to undirstond that wynter and colde weders draweth 
negh, and I have but fewe clothez but of your gift, God thanke 
you. Wherefore, Sir, and it like you, I besech your gode 
maisterschip that ye will vouchsafe to remembre me your ser- 
vaunte with some lyverey, such as pleaseth you, ayens this 
wynter, to make me a gown to kepe me from the colde 
wedders. And that I myght have it and such answare as ye 
pleace in the premisses sente unto me be the bringer herof. 
And I schal contynuwe your oratrix and pore servaunte and 

* [Add. MS. 34,889, f. 166.] This letter is of course not earlier than 1463, when 
Sir John Paston received his knighthood, but probably belongs to a period before his 
flirtations with Anne Haute, who first appears on the scene in the summer of 1468. 

291 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1463-7 hertely pray to God for your prosperite, Whom I besech have 
NOT. 3 you, Right worshipful Sir, and with my faithful herte and service 
full entierly beloved gode maister, in His blessed governaunce. 
Writen at Hellowe the iii*^'- Day of Novembre. 

Cecile Daune. 



680 

ABSTRACT 1 

1468 Release by William, Bishop of Winchester, John, Lord Beauchamp, Sir John 

JAN. 1 1 Howard, Sir William Yelverton, Justice of the King's Bench, Thomas Lytelton, 
Justice of the Common Pleas, William Jenney, Serjeant-at-Law, William Paston, 
Esq., Thomas Howys, clerk, and William Grene, to Sir John Paston, Knight, of 
the manors of Castre, in Flegge, called Vaux and Bosoms, and the lands in 
Castre called Redham, the manors or tenements in Heryngby called Spensers and 
Fennes, a third part of the manor of Runham, the manor of Wynterton, called 
Begvyles, with a windmill, the manor of Reppes in Bastewyk, and messuages, 
&c., in Yarmouth ; the lands called Billes in Stokesby and Cattes in Heryngby, 
&c. ; the manors of Guton in Brandeston, Heynford, the manor of Saxthorp, 
called Loundhalle, with a watermill, the manor of Lincolnhalle, in Boyton, &c., 
in Norfolk ; and the manor called Caldecotes in Freton, SufF. ; the manors of 
Akethorp in Lowestoft and Spitlyngges in Gorleston, and lands called Have- 
lound in Brad well, &c. ; also in the manor of Tichewell, &c., in the hundred 
of Smethedon, Norf. ; and the manor of Hempnales in Cotton, and Burnevyles 
in Naketon, Suff. ; all which the said Bishop and the others had, inter alia, of 
the gift of Ralph, Lord Sudeley, Sir William Oldhall, Richard Waller, Esq., 
Thomas West, Esq., William Wangford, and Nicholas Girlyngton. 
Dated nth Jan. 7 Edw. iv. 



[MS. in Bodleian Library.] 



292 



EDWARD IV 

68i 

WILLIAM WORCESTER TO MARGARET PASTON.i 

To my ryght worshypfull maistras^ Margyt Paston^ 
wedowe. 

RYGHT worchypfuU maistras, aftyr dew recomendacion, 1468 (?) 
please your gode maistrasshyp to wete that I comyned 
late wyth your entier welbelovyd son, Sir John Paston, 
of the fundacion of my Maister Fastolf Collage myght ben at 
Cambrygge, yn case hyt shall nat bee at Castre, nether at Seynt 
Benetts, because that Universyte lyeth neere the cuntree ot 
Norffolk and Suffolk ; for albe it my Lord of Wynchestr ys 
disposed to found a Collage yn Oxford for my seyd maister to 
be prayd for, yhyt wyth moch lesse cost he myght make som 
othyr memorialle also yn Cambrygge, and yt weere of ij. clerkys, 
iij. or iiij, scolers, founded at leest wyth the value of gode 
benefices and ryche parsonages, that myght be purschased the 
advowsons, wyth moch lesse goodes then lordshyppes or maners 
may ; and I fonde your son well disposed to meofe and excyte 
my seyd Lord. Also now the Cristmasse weke next before the 
feest att London, my Lord Wynchester called me to hym yn 
presence of Sir John, and desyrid hym effectually to be my 
gode wyller ; and maister wold hafe no wordes rehersed on my 
behalf, and he seyd full welle. Wold Jesu, Maistras, that my 
gode maister that was som tyme your husbond, yn my seyd 
Maister Fastolf lyfe dayes, as he shewed to me, their coude hafe 
founded ^n hys hert to hafe trusted and lovyd me as my 
Maister Fastolf dyd, and that he wold not hafe geven credence 
to the malyciouse contryved talys that Frere Brakley, W. 
Barker, and othyrs ymagyned ontruly, savyng your reverence, 

1 [From Fenn, iv. 280.] It seems probable that this letter was written about the 
beginning of the year 1468. As to the time of year, we may judge by one expression 
that it was not very long after Christmas ; and as the writer congratulates Margaret 
Paston that Caister is to be at her command, we may with great probability suppose 
the date to be about the same as that of the preceding document, 

293 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

I468(?) of me. And now ye may opynly ondrestand the sothe, and 
your son Sir John also ; and yhyt for all that I put nevyr my 
Maister Fastolf lyfelode yn trouble, for alle the unkyndnesse 
and covetuse that was shewed me, as I hafe declared to the 
berer heroff, that I know ye trust welle, to whom yn thys ye 
may gefe credence at thys tyme. 

God amend J. Russe. I wold he had ben at Irland for one 
day ys sake. 

Your, W. W. 

And I thank you hertly for my pore woman, she shuld 
com to you at your commaundment late or rathe, but for 
gelosye and mysdemyng of peple that hafe me yn greete 
awayt ; and ye know welle, maistras, better ys afrende unknow 
then knowen ; the world ys to mysdemyng and redy to make 
dyvysyon and debate that comyth of an envyouse disposicion. 
And . I am ryght glad that Castr ys and shall be at your 
comaundment, and yowres yn especialle. A ryche juelle yt ys 
at neede for all the cuntre yn tyme of werre ; and my Maister F. 
wold rather he had nevyr bylded yt then hyt shuld be yn the 
gouvernaunce of eny sovereyn that wole oppresse the cuntree. 
And I fynde the relygyoux of Seynt Benetts full unkynde toke 
away a chambre, the elder Abbot had put me yn possessyon 
for my solace, when I myzt com thedr and desport me, and 
toke that chambre to Maister John Smyth, that Sir Thomas 
Howys seyd to me, was none holsom counceller yn the refor- 
macion of the last testament made but ij. executors to hafe the 
rule allone. I wold he had nevyr medled of yt, that councell 
made moch trouble. I pray you kepe thys letter close to your 
sylf, as I trust you and Sir Jamys, and also yn R. Toly that I 
undrestand hym close and just. 

I had no tyme to speke withyn now late, when I was but 
one day at Norwych. W. Barker sclaundred me yn certeyn 
maters of gode to the some of v*^- mark that Reynold Harneys 
shuld kepe and take me half. Wold Jesu B[a]rker had seyd 
true, hyt myzt hafe do me moch gode ! And, Maistras, as I 
dar desyre you, I pray you recomaund me to my best maistras, 
your moder Agnes, for she favorued me and dyd me grete 
294 



EDWARD IV 

cherytee, to be the better disposed to hyr son, Maister John, i468(?) 
and by my soule yt made me the hertyer to safe the lyfelode 
fro trouble or from claymes, as I support me to alle the world, 
I put nevyr maner ne lyfelode of my Maister Fastolf yn trouble, 
ne entitled no crettur to na place, and ye may speke wyth hyr 
herof when ye be allone. 



682 

HUGH FENN TO SIR JOHN PASTONi 

To the right worchepfull Sir John Paston^ Knyght. 

RIGHT worchepfull sir, I recommand me to you. Like 1468 
you wete a distresse was take in Caster by Thomas [apwl 12] 
Pekok, I trowe your servant, a besy man, called of a 
full true sowle, John Hadynet of Haryngby, a pore man his 
plow hath loyn ever sith, he seith ; I understonde it is for Catts 
landes. I sent my clerk to my mastresse, your moder, and the 
seid John with hym therfor ; and my mastresse wold hym 
come ageyn a nother day, for Pecok was not thanne at home ; 
so he ded, and can not have it, as he seith, but that ye wold I 
shuld speke with you at Castr therof, and or other maters he 
tolde me this day. And by cause of my moders yereday 
holden this day, God have hir sowle, and to morwe shal be a 
good day, I wol by Goddes grace dispose me to His mercy 
ageyns Thursday, as I have used ; therfor I pray you pardon 
my comyng. In the weke after Ester, I entend to se you and 
my seid mastresse certeynly ; it is loong seth I sy hir, me semeth. 
And if ye be not thanne at Castr, I pray you send me worde 
that I may come soner to you to comon with you in this mater, 
and in all other what ye wil, and sone departe to London fro 
thens ; and therfor I wil abide with you a good while. 

1 [From Fenn, iv. 290.] This letter was written on the Tuesday before Easter, 
probably in the year 1468, i.e. after the other executors of Fastolf had released to Sir 
John Paston. The date could hardly be later than 1469, when Sir John was driven 
out of Caister by the Duke of Norfolk j and in 1469 he does not seem to have been 
residing there about Easter. 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1468 Sir, as to Catts ye be remembred what I seid to you at 

[APRIL 12] London at ij. tymes. I am the same man ; I have sith I cam 
geten th'evidences in to myn handes, and I am redy to shewe 
them what lerned man her that ye wol assigne. The mater is 
cler to my thynkyng. Titleshale that solde it to Sir J, Fastolf 
myght as wele a solde hym your lande or myn ; and if the sale 
be lawfuil, I shal leve my hands at the first as I said at London. 
The distresse to be kept for that, I wisse it nede not, and it 
was unlawfully taken. Like it you to do delyvere the pore 
man his goods ageyn, I am redy to answer you for elde and 
new as right wol. I shal breke no day to be assigned, for to 
leve all other thyngs. 

By the blissed Lady I beleve that ye wol dispose you wele, 
and so I pray God ye do, and have you in His blissed gover- 
naunce. Wretyn at the hede town of Norifolk this Tuysday. 
Your owen, H. atte Fenne. 



683 

EDWARD IV. TO SIR JOHN PASTON ^ 

To our trusty and welbeloved Sir John PastoHy Knight. 

By the King. 

APML 18 f I ^RUSTY and welbeloved, we greet yow well. And 
I where it is accorded betwixt us and our cozen the 
Duke of Burgundye that he shall wedde our derrest 
sister, Margaret, and that in shorte while we intende to sende 
her into the parts of Flanders for the accomplishment and 
solempnizacion of the marriage so concluded ; at the which 
time it behoveth her to be accompanied with great nobility of 
this realme, for the honour thereof, of us and our said sister : 
We therefore, wele understanding and remembering the good 

1 This letter is reprinted from Mr. Worship's article on Sandford's genealogy of 
the Paston family in the Norfolk Archeology. The original was transcribed by Sand- 
ford, but is not now to be found. Margaret, sister of Edward iv., was married to 
Charles the Bold, Duke of Burgundy, at Bruges, on the 3rd July 1468. 

296 



EDWARD IV 

affection ye here towards us all, our pleasure is, and our said 1468 
sister, whereupon we greatly trust, desire and pray yow right apR'l ^^ 
efFectuously that, every excuse or delaye laide aparte, ye will 
dispose yourselfe to the saide intent and purpose against the 
first day of June next cominge, according to your honour and 
degree, and that ye faile not so to doe, as we singularly trust 
yow, and as ye intend to do us justys, pleas* ^ Yeven under 
our signet at our manner of Greenwich, the xviij. day of 
Aprill. 



684 

JOHN PASTON THE YOUNGER TO 
MARGARET PASTON V 

To my ryght reverend and worchepfull modyr^ Margaret Paston, 
dwellyng at Caster^ be thys delyveryed in hast. 

RYTH reverend and worchepfull modyr, I recomaund july 8 
me on to you as humbylly as I can thynk, desyryng 
most hertly to her of your welfare and herts ese, 
whyche I pray God send yow as hastyly as my hert can 
thynk. Pies yt yow to wete, that at the makyng of thys 
byll, my brodyr and I, and all our felawshep, wer in good 
helle, blyssyd be God. As for the gydyng her in thys contre, 
it is as worchepfull as all the world can devyse it, and ther 
wer never Englyshe men had so good cher owt of Inglong 
that ever I herd of. 

As for tydyngs her, but if it be of the fest, I can non send 
yow; savyng my Lady Margaret^ was maryd on Sonday* last 
past, at a towne that is callyd the Dame, iij. myle owt of 
Brugys, at v: of the clok in the mornyng ; and sche was browt 
the same day to Bruggys to hyr dener; and ther sche was 

1 So, as printed in the Norfolk Arckaology. 

2 [From Fenn, ii. 2.] As this letter gives an account of the marriage of the 
Princess Margaret to Charles, Duke of Burgundy, there is no doubt of the year in 
which it was written. 

3 Margaret, sister of King Edward iv. * Z^d July. 

297 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1468 receyvyd as worchepfully as all the world cowd devyse, as 
JULY 8 with presession with ladys and lordys, best beseyn of eny 
pepyll, that ever I sye or herd of. Many pagentys wer 
pleyed in hyr wey in Bryggys to hyr welcomyng, the best 
that ever I sye. And the same Sonday my Lord the Bastard,^ 
took upon hym to answere xxiiij. knyts and gentylmen, with 
in viij. dayes at jostys of pese; and when that they wer 
answeryd, they xxiiij. and hym selve schold torney with othyr 
XXV. the next day aftyr, whyche is on Monday next comyng ; 
and they that have jostyd with hym into thys day, have ben as 
rychely beseyn, and hymselve also, as clothe of gold, and sylk 
and sylvyr, and goldsmyths werk, myght mak hem ; for of 
syche ger, and gold, and perle, and stanys, they of the Dwkys 
coort, neythyr gentylmen nor gentylwomen, they want non; 
for with owt that they have it by wyshys, by my trowthe, I 
herd nevyr of so gret plente as ther is, 

Thys day my Lord Scalys^ justyd with a Lord of thys 
contre, but not with the Bastard; for they mad promyse at 
London that non of them bothe shold never dele with othyr 
in armys; but the Bastard was one of the Lords that browt 
the Lord Scalys in to the feld, and of mysfortwhe an horse 
strake my Lord Bastard on the lege, and hathe hurt hym so 
sore, that I can thynk he shalbe of no power to acomplyshe 
up hys armys ; and that is gret pete, for by my trowthe I 
trow God mad never a mor worchepfuU knyt. 

And as for the Dwkys coort, as of lords, ladys and gentyl- 
women, knyts, sqwyers, and gentylmen, I hert never of non 
lyek to it, save Kyng Artourys cort. And by my trowthe, 
I have no wyt nor remembrans to wryte to yow, half the 
worchep that is her ; but that lakyth, as it comyth to mynd I 
shall tell yow when I come home, whyche I tryst to God shal 
not be long to; for we depart owt of Brygys homward on 
Twysday next comyng, and all folk that cam with my Lady 
of Burgoyn owt of Inglond, except syche as shall abyd her 
sty 11 with hyr, whyche I wot well shall be but fewe. 

* Anthony, Count de la Roche, commonly called the Bastard of Burgundy, a 
natural son of Duke Philip the Good. 

2 Anthony Woodville, Lord Scales, afterwards Earl Rivers. 
298 



EDWARD IV 

We depart the soner, for the Dwk^ hathe word that the 1468 
Frenshe Kyng ^ is purposyd to mak wer upon hym hastyly, July 8 
and that he is with in iiij. or v. dayis jorney of Brugys, and 
the Dwk rydyth on Twysday next comyng, forward to met 
with hym; God geve hym good sped, and all hys; for by 
my trowthe they are the goodlyest felawshep the ever I cam 
among, and best can behave them, and most lyek gentylmen. 

Othyr tydyngs have we non her, but that the Dwke of 
Somerset,' and all hys bands depertyd welbeseyn owt of 
Brugys a day befor that my Lady the Dwches cam thedyr, 
and they sey her, that he is to Qwen Margaret that was, and 
shal no more come her ayen, nor be holpyn by the Dwk. No 
more ; but I beseche yow of your blyssyng as lowly as I can, 
whyche I beseche yow forget not to geve me ever day onys. 
And, modyr, I beseche yow that ye wolbe good mastras to my 
lytyll man, and to se that he go to scole. 

I sent my cosyn Dawbeney vs. by Callys man, for to bye 
for hym syche ger as he nedyth ; and, modyr, I pray yow thys 
byll may recomend me to my sustyrs bothe, and to the mastyr, 
my cosyn Dawbeney, Syr Jamys,* Syr John Stylle, and to pray 
hym to be good mastyr to lytyll Jak, and to lerne hym well; 
and I pray yow that thys byll may recomand me to all your 
folkys, and my wellwyllers. And I pray God send yow your 
herts desyr. 

Wretyn at Bruggys the Fryday next aftyr Seynt Thomas. 
Your sone and humbyll servaunt, 

J. Paston, the yonger. 

685 

ABSTRACT* 

General pardon to William Paston, son of the judge, for offences com- July i6 
mitted before the 15th April last. The grantee is described by different 
aliases, as William Paston of London, of Caster, of Norwich, and of Wyraond- 
ham, gentleman. Westminster, i6th July, 8 Edw. iv. Great Sea/ attached. 

1 Charles the Bold, Duke of Burgundy. * Lewis xi. 

3 Edmund Beaufort, Duke of Somerset. * Sir James Gloys, a priest. 

6 [From Add. Charter 17,248, B.M.] 

299 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

686 

THE EARL OF OXFORD TO SIR JOHN PASTON i 

To Sir John Paston^ Knyght. 

I468(?) I ^ IGHT worshipfull, and my especiall true hertid frende, 
JULY 1 8 r^ I commaunde me un to you, preying you to ordeyne 
me iij. horsse barneys as godely as ye and Genyn kan 
devyse, as it were for yourselfe ; and that I may have thyme 
in all hast, ordere. Also Skerne saith ye wolde ordeyne ij. 
standarde stavys ; this I pray you to remembre, and my wife 
shalle deliver you silver, — and yit she most borowed it ; vj . or 
vij//. I wold be stowe on a horsse barneys, and so Skerne tolde 
me I might have. The Lord Hastings had for the same price, 
but I wolde not myne were lik his ; and I trust to God we 
shalle do right welle, who preserve you. Wreten at Canter- 
bury in bast, the xviij. day of Juyll. 

OXYNFORD. 
687 

SIR JOHN PASTON TO MRS. ANNE « 

'To Mas ires se Annes. 

1468 I '% YTHE it is so that I may not, as oft as I wold, be ther 

JULY 22 1-^ as [i.e. where] I might do my message myselfF, myn 

owne fayir Mastresse Annes, I prey yow to accept 

thys byll for my messanger to recomand me to yow in my 

^ [From Fenn, ii. 26.] The writer of this letter was committed to the Tower in 
November 1468, and though afterwards released, it was not long before he became a 
declared enemy of Edward iv. ; so that, after the brief restoration of Henry vi. in 
14.70, he was obliged to leave the kingdom. The date of this letter, therefore, is not 
likely to be later than the present year, but it may be a year or two earlier. 

* [From Fenn, ii. 294.] The Mrs. Anne to whom this letter was addressed 
seems to have been a Mrs. Anne Haute, to whom Sir John was for a long time 
engaged. That it was written before the year 1469 will appear probable on refer- 
ring to Margaret Paston's letter written on Easter Monday (3rd April) in that year, 
in which she wishes to know for certain if he be engaged ; and we have therefore 

300 



EDWARD IV 

most feythfull wyse, as he that faynest of all other desyreth 1468 
to knowe of yowr welfare, whyche I prey God encresse to July ^^ 
your most plesure. 

And, mastresse, thow so be that I as yet have govyn yow 
hot easy \i.e. little] cause to remembyr me for leke of aqweyn- 
tacion, yet I beseche yow, let me not be forgotyn when ye 
rekyn up all yowr servaunts, to be sett in the nombyr with 
other. 

And I prey yow, Mastresse Annes, for that servyse that 
I owe yow, that in as short tyme as ye goodly may that I 
myght be assarteynyd of yowr entent and of your best frends 
in syche maters as I have brokyn to yow of, whyche bothe 
your and myn ryght trusty frends John Lee, or ellys my 
mastresse hys wyff, promysyd befor yow and me at our fyrst 
and last being togedyr, that as sone as they or eyther of theym 
knewe your entent and your frendys that they shold send me 
woord. And if they so do, I tryst sone aftyr to se yow. 

And now farewell, myn owne fayir lady, and God geve 
yow good rest, for in feythe I trow ye be in bed. 

Wretyn in my wey homward on Mary Maudelcyn Day at 
mydnyght. Your owne, 

John Paston. 

Mastresse Annes, I am prowd that ye can reed Inglyshe ; 
wherfor I prey yow aqweynt yow with thys my lewd \uncoutK\ 
hand, for my purpose is that ye shalbe more aqweyntyd with 
it, or ellys it shalbe ayenst my wyll ; but yet, and when ye 
have red thys by 11, I prey yow brenne it or kepe it secret to 
yoursylff, as my feythefuU trust is in yow. 

little difficulty in referring it to the year 1468, when Sir John was over in Flanders at 
the marriage of the Princess Margaret to Charles of Burgundy. Mrs. Anne appears 
to have been a lady of English extraction, who was either bom abroad or had passed 
most of her life on the Continent. She was, moreover, related to Lord Scales, and 
is therefore not unlikely to have been the daughter of one William Haute of Kent, 
who married at Calais, in 1429, the daughter of a certain Richard Wydeville. (See 
Excerpta Historica, p. 249.) But she could speak and even read English j and Sir 
John, who was now returning homewards to England, designed in this letter to open 
a correspondence with her. He appears, however, not to have despatched it, as the 
original remained among the papers of the Paston family ; or else perhaps it was re- 
turned to him on the breaking off of the engagement. 

301 



THE PASTON LETTERS 
688 

THOMAS HOWES TO CARDINAL BOURCHIERi 

To my moste honorabyl Lord Cadenall^ and 
Archibushop of Caunterbury. 

1468 "E iTOSTE reverent and my ryght good Lord, I re- 
ocT. 10 ^^/l comaund me to your gracyous Lordshyp yn my 
moste humble wyse. Please your Lordshyp to wete 
that my Lord NorfFolk councell hath now late mevyd Sir 
Wylliam Yelverton, Knyght, and me to be preferryd for to 
purchasse the maner of Castre, and certeyn other lordshypps 
that wer my Maystyr Fastolf, whom God pardon, owt ex- 
cepted the maner of Gunton that yowr Lordshyp desyryth to 
purchasse, and othyr certeyn maners that my Mastyr Fastolf 
frendys hafe desyred to be preferryd. And be cause the 
pretens bargayn that John Paston yn hys lyfFe surmytted, 
bye colour of which he entended to hafe all my Mastyr 
Fastolf londes in Norffolk and Suffolk for nought, savyng 
the hygh reverence of your astate, was not juste ne trew ;- 
and be cause that I wyth othyr of my Master Fastolf 
executors may have wher of to dyspospose yn cherytc full 
dedys to do for hys sowle ; I have condescended the rather 
that my seide Lord of NorfFolk shall be preferryd to the pur- 
chasse of the seyde maner of Castre, and othyr maners that 
may be sparyd to th'encresse of hys lyfelode yn thys land ; 
and thys covenantys to be engroced upp wythynne shorth 
tyme, as by all Halowaunce, in case yowr Lordshyp be agreed 
and plesyd wyth all ; wher uppon I wold beseche yowr nobyll 
Lordshyp to lete me wete your good plesur and avice yn thys 
behalfe. 

And be cause my seyd Lord NorfFolk ys so nere of blode 
to yowr hyghnesse knyghted, that meevyd me to be the more 
wyllyng to condescend to the forseyd purchasse, and so trust- 

* [From Fenn, iv. 298.] 
302 



EDWARD IV 

yng your Lordshyp wold be ryght well pleased wyth alle. 1468 
Wretyn at Norwich the x. day of Octobyr, anno viij. R. oct. 10 
E. iiij* 

Yowr pore chapleyn, T. Howys. 



689 

ABSTRACT 1 

[Circa 1468.] Long declaration in English (on a paper roll) by Thomas 
Howes, ' for the discharge of his conscience,' impugning the authenticity of the 
will nuncupative, said to have been made by Sir J. Fastolf on the day of his 
death, and propounded by John Paston and the said Thomas in opposition to an 
earlier will propounded by Sir W. Yelverton and W. Worcetyr ; containing 
details intended to prove that the alleged will was fabricated by Paston. 
Amongst other things, Howes says that at Paston's desire he did, a year before 
Fastolf 's death, move Fastolf that Paston might buy three of his manors and 
live in his college, * and the seyd Fastolf, mevyd and passyoned gretely in his 
soule, seyd and swar by Cryst ys sides, ** And I knewe that Paston woolde by 
ony of my londes or my godes he shulde nevyr be my fefFe, nother myn executor." 
Albeyt he seyde that he wolde suffer that the said Paston for terme of hys lyf 
shall have a loggyng yn a convenyent place yn the seyd maner of Castre withoute 
denyance of ony havyng intrest yn the seyd maner.' 



690 

ANONYMOUS TO SIR JOHN PASTON 2 

To Maistyr Syr John Paston^ Knyght^ at London, with my Lorae 
the Archebisshop of Torke^ be this letter delyverid. 

1RECOMMAND me unto you. It is tolde me that the oct. 28 
man that ye wote of cam ridyng by my Lady Suthfolk and 
by Cotton, which is in gret decay ; and Barnay tolde him 
that Edward Dale tolde hem he durst no lenger serve him of 

1 [From a MS. in Magdalen College, Oxford.] This Abstract is derived from 
Mr. Macray's Report on the Muniments of Magdalen College, printed in the Fourth 
Report of the Historical Mss. Commission. 

2 [From Paston Mss., B.M.] The reference to the Earl of Pembroke, who was 
only so created in 1468, and who was beheaded in July 1469, fixes the date of this 
letter to the former year. 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1468 ale, for it was warnid hym that my Lady Suffolk^ wolde entyr, 
OCT. 28 and whan she shulde enter few men shulde knowe, it shulde be 
do so sodenly. She taryeth but of tythynges fro London. He 
spak nat with hyr. I pray you speke to my Lorde of Zorke ^ 
for the subpena in the Chanceri ayen William Paston that he 
take noon hurte. He desyrith to write to yow for it. My 
Lorde of Northfolk men have warnid the tenantis to pay you 
no mony, and thai speke aUe in the Kynges name. Ye may 
tell my Lorde of Yorke that it is open in every mannys 
mouth in this contre the language that my Lorde of 
Yorke and my Lord of Warwik had to my Lorde of 
Norfolk in the Kings chambre, and that my Lorde of 
Yorke saide, rathir than the londe shulde go so, he wolde 
com dwell ther hym slifF. Ye wolde mervaile what harts my 
Lords hath goten, and how this language put peeple in com- 
forte. My Lorde of Norffolk answerde that he wolde speke 
to my Lady his wifF, and entret hir. And your adversarys 
reherce that my Lorde shall never be Chanceleer til this mateer 
be spede,^ for ther bargans ar made condicionall, to holde and 
nat holde as afftir my Lorde be Chaunceler and nat. SothweU 
is all the doar, and he hath saide that my Lorde of Zorke 
licensid hym to labour in the mateer. My Lorde of Norwich 
shuld by xl. marke of the same lond. Thai entende to have a 
man of my Lady of Suthfolks sheryve, and specially Harcort. 
My Lorde coude nat bileve it but if [/'.<?. unless] he harde it, 
how it is rejoysshid in som place that he is nat Chaunceleer." 
Ther cam 00 man into the contre with a newe patent, saying 
that my Lorde was Chanceler, and at that was the first patent 
that was sealid sithen he was officeer. The tythandes did 
goode pro tempore. Ther are witnes labourid, as it is said, to 
witnes and swere ageyn you of men of c/i. a yeer, and many 
oder men, som that knew never of the mateer nor never harde 
Sir John FaskolfF speke ; ye know what jure is in this contre 
in maters that ar favoured by them that ar now ageyn you. It 
is harde whan a mateer restid by jure in this contre, som of the 

* Alice, widow of William de la Pole, Duke of Suffolk. 
2 George Nevill, Archbishop of York. 

' The Great Seal was taken from Archbishop Nevill on the 8th June 1467. 
Apparently in 1468 he was hoping to be made Chancellor again. 



EDWARD IV 

same quest that founde you bondeman shall witnesse ayens you, 1468 
Syr Thomas Howys corny th to London, and if my Lorde of o^^- ^8 
Zorke wolde entret frendely my Lorde of Ely,^ and get feith- 
fuUy his promyse that my Lorde of Ely sende for Hawys, he 
shulde make Hawys to go home ageyn and leve all his fellowis 
post allon ; and that my Lorde wolde entret my Lorde Tre- 
saurer, my Lord Penbrok/ my Lady Bedford,^ and remembre 
the bargan is not yit made, it may be better lettid affor than 
afFtyr ; and if the mateer spede my Lorde getith gret worshipp 
and gret thanke. I doute not he undirstondyth it, for it is 
well undirstonde what he hath saide. And pray his Lordeshipp 
to remembre a shereve this yeer, for ther is mych to be undir- 
stonde in the shereve. And sende me worde if my Lorde 
Penbrok be go, and if my Lorde be Chaunceler. Et memo- 
randum, Sir William Terell your testimoniall. Et memoran- 
dum, my Lorde Cardynall to sende answer to Sir Thomas 
Howys ; and though my Lorde Cardynall be nat ther now, 
yit lat To wny sende make it redy ageyns my Lords commyng. 
If Sir Thomas Howys wer handelyd by Maister Tressam and 
made byleve and put in hope of the moone shone in the water 
and I wot nat what, that such labor wer made that eythir he 
shulde be a pope or els in dyspeyr to be depryved de omni 
heneficio ecclesiastico for symony, lechory, perjory, and doubble 
variable pevyshnesse, and for admynystryng without auctoryte ; 
and how he promisid bi his feith to my Lord t'obey his rewle 
and brak it, and what he hath saide to my lords in this mateer ; 
and if ye recur in the courte, he shall be undo, and this mateer 
tolde hym by my Lorde of Ely and Maister Tresham, halfF in 
game and halfF in ernest, it shulde make hym to departe, for 
Yelvyrton and he ar halfF at variance now. And entret my 
Lords servaunts to speke in your maters to all such persones 
as nede is. And I shall be hastyly with you by the grace of 
God, whom have yow in kepyng. Writen on Seynt Simonde 
Day and Jude. 

By your owne. 

1 William Grey, Bishop of Ely. 

a William Herbert, Earl of Pembroke. ' See page i88, Note 3." 

VOL. IV. — U 305 



THE PASTON LETTERS 



691 

SIR JOHN PASTON TO JOHN PASTON 1 

^0 my ryght welbelovyd brother^ John Paston, Esqer, beyng at 
Casier^ or to John Dawbeney there^ be this letter delyvered. 

1468 I '% YGHT welbelovyd brother, I comand me to yow, letyng 
NOV. 9 l-^ yQ^ wete that I have wagyd for to helpe yow and 
Dawbeney to kepe the place at Castr, iiij. wel assuryd 
and trew men to do al maner of thyng what that they be desyryd 
to do, in save gard or enforcyng of the seyd place ; and mor 
ovyr they be provyd men, and connyng in the werr, and in 
fetys of armys, and they kan wele schote bothe gonnys and 
crossebowes, and amende and strynge them, and devyse bol- 
werkys, or any thyngs that scholde be a strenkthe to the place ; 
and they wol, as nede is, kepe wecche and warde. They be 
sadde and wel advysed men, savyng on of them, whyche is 
ballyd, and callyd Wylliam Peny, whyche is as goode a man as 
gothe on the erthe, savyng a lytyll he wol, as I understand, be 
a lytel copschotyn [high-crested^^ but yit he is no brawler, but 
ful of cortesye, meche uppon James Halman ; the other iij. be 
named Peryn Sale, John Chapman, Robert Jakys Son, savyng 
that as yit they have non harneyse comyn, but when it komyth 
it schall be sent to yow, and in the meane whyle I pray yow 
and Dawbeney to purvey them some. 

Also a cople of beddys they most nedys have, whyche I 
pray yow by the help of my modre to purvey for them, tyl 
that I com home to yow. Ye schall fynde them gentylmanly, 
comfortable felawes, and that they wol and dare abyde be ther 
takelyng ; and if ye undrestond that any assawte schold be 
towardys, I sende yow thes men, becawse that men of the 

^ [From Fenn, iv. 302.] The original of this letter, Fenn informs us, was written 
upon a whole sheet of paper, of which a quarter was cut away before the letter was 
finished, so that the bottom part of it was only half the width of the upper. Roger 
Ree was made Sheriff of Norfolk in 1468, which fixes the date. 

306 



EDWARD IV 

centre ther about yow scholde be frayed for fer of losse of ther 1468 
goods ; wherfor if ther wer any suche thyng towards, I wolde no^- 9 
ye take of men of the contre but few, and that they wer well 
assuryd men, for ellys they myght discorage alle the remenant. 

And asfor any wryghtyng fro the Kyng, he hathe promysyd 
that there schall come non ; and if ther do his unwarys \wuhoui 
his knowledge]^ yowr answer may be thys, how the Kyng hathe 
seyd, and so to delay them tyll I may have worde, and I schall 
sone purvey a remedy. 

I understond that ye have ben with my Lorde of Norfolke 
now of late. What ze have done I wete not ; we se that he 
shal be her ageyn thys daye. Mor ovyr, I trow John Alforde 
schall not longe abyde with my Lorde ; I schall sende yow 
tydyng of other thyngys in haste, with the grace of God, who, 
&c. Wretyn on Wednysday nexte befor Seynt Martyn. 

John Paston. 

I fer that Dawbeney is not alther best storyd to contenew 
howsold longe ; lete hym send me worde in hast, and I wyll 
releve hym to my power, and or longe to I hope to be with 
yow. 

Roger Ree is scheryfF of Norfolke, and he schall be good 
jnow. Th'excheter I am not yit assertaynyd of. 

Also, that thes men be at the begynnyng entretyd as cor- 
teysly as ye can. 

Also, I pray yow to sende me my flowr ^ be the next mas- 
sanger that comyth. 

Also, as for my Lorde Fytz Waters oblygacion, I know non 
suche in myn adward as yit. 

Also, the obligacion of the Bisshop of Norwychys oblyga- 
cion, I never sye it that I remembre ; wherfor I wolde and prey 
my modre to loke it up. 

Also, as for the Byble ^ that the master hath, I wend the 

1 This may mean flour for household use ; or it may signify his flower, his device 
or cognisance. — F. 

' This must mean some MS. copy, for at this time there was only one printed 
edition of the Bible, which would have sold even then for a much greater sum than 
is here mentioned. I mean 'Biblia Latina Mogunt. per J. Fust et P. SchoifFer, 
1462.'— F. 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1468 uttermost pryse had not passyd v. mark, and so I trowe he 
NOV. 9 ;vyl geve it : wet, I pray yow. 

Also, as for Syr Wylliam Barber and Syr Wylllam Falyate, 

I wolde, if they kan purvey for them selfe, folfayne be dys- 

chargyd of them. 



692 
ELIZABETH POYNINGS TO SIR JOHN PASTON 1 

'To the worshipful Sir John Paston^ Knyght^ be thys 
deheryd in hast. 

I468(?) TT TORSHIPFULL and with all myn hert interly wil- 
DEc. 15 V V' beloved nevoue, I recomaunde me to yow, desyryng 
to here of your prosperite and wilefayr, which I 
pray All mighti God maynteyn and encres to His plesour and 
your herts desir, thankyng God of your amendyng and helth ; 
forthermore, certefying yow that Sir Robert Fenys hath doon 
grete hurte in the lyvelode whiche perteyned to my husbond 
and me in the Shire of Kent, wherein William Kene and other 
persones arn enfeffid, and gretly troubleth hit, and receyveth 
the issuez and profitez of gret part of theym. And as of my 
seid husbonds lyvelode, aswell in the same shire as in other 

* [From Fenn, iv. 266.] Elizabeth Paston, as we have seen (No. 374), had 
married Robert Poynings by the beginning of January 1459. We must, however, 
correct a slight inaccuracy in the preliminary note to that letter, where it is said that 
by the year 1470 they must have been married several years. Their union, in fact, 
lasted little more than two years ; for Robert Poynings was slain at the second battle 
of St. Albans on the 17th February 146 1. The inquisition post mortem, taken some 
years after\vards (9 and 10 Edw. iv., No. 49), gives that day as the date of his death. 
His son and heir, Edward, named in this letter (who was afterwards Lord-Deputy of 
Ireland in the reign of Henry vii.), was probably bom towards the close of the year 
1459, for he is mentioned at the date of the inquisition (31st Jan. 49 and i Hen. vi., 
i^. 147 1) as eleven years old and over. Elizabeth Poynings must have remained a 
widow some years ; but before 1472 she had married Sir George Browne of Betch- 
worth, Surrey. This letter is certainly of later date than No. 627, for the lands which 
she was then endeavouring to recover from the Earl of Kent were now occupied by 
the Earl of Essex. It may perhaps have been a year or two after 1466, but it was 
probably not later than 1469, as in 1470 Henry vi. was restored, and Essex, being a 
Yorkist, would not have been so powerful. The year 1468 must be a tolerable 
approximation to the true date. 
308 



EDWARD IV 

shirez, besyde myn jounter, my seid husbond, whan he de- I468(?) 
partyd towarde the feld of Saint Albons, made and ordeyned dec. 15 
his wille, that I shuld have the rewell of all his lyvelode, and 
of Edwarde his soon and myn, and to take the issuez and 
profitez of the seid lyvelode, to the fyndyng of his and myn 
seid son, to paie his dettez, and to kepe the right and title of 
the same lyvelode, which I myght nat accordyng occupie for 
Sir Edwarde Ponyngs, myn seid husbonds brother ; and so 
sith myn seid husbonds departyng, I assigned that the seid Sir 
Edwarde for certeyn yereez shuld have and take the revenuez 
of the maners of Westwode, Estwell, Levelond, Horsmonden, 
Totyndon, Eccles, Staundon, and Combesdon, parcell of the 
seid lyvelode, which arn clerely yerely worth Ixxvj//. xiijj. iiij<^., 
to the entent that the seid Sir Edwarde shuld paye myn 
husbonds dettez, for he wold not suffer me to be in rest with- 
out that he myght have a rewell in the lyvelode ; and after 
the seid assignement made, the seid Robert Fenes, contrary to 
trowth, and withoute cause of right, interupted me and the 
seid Sir Edwarde, aswell of and in the seid maners as of other 
maners undirwretyn ; wher uppon the same Sir Edwarde suet 
unto the Kyngs Highnesse, and hade the Kyngez honorable 
lettres undir his signet, directed to the said Sir Robert Fenys, 

-the tenour wherof I send unto yow herin inclosid ; and as for 
residue of the lyvelode of myn seid husbonds and myn, within 
the same shire of Kent, wherin the said William Kene and 
other arn enfeffed, that is to say, the maner of Tyrlyngham, 
Wolverton, Halton, Newyngton, Bastram, Rokesley, and 
Northcray, with th'appurtenauncez, I of them, by myn seid 

-husbonds wille, shuld have residue, and take the issuez and 
profitez of theym, contrarye to right and conciens, takyng 
away my ryght, and brekyng my said husbonds wille, the seid 
Robert Fenys hath doon gret wast and hurte ther, and long 
tym hath take upe the revenuez and profitez of the same, wher 
thorough I have not my ryght, and the seid wille may not be 
performed. 

Wherfor I hertely pray yow that ze will labour unto the 
Kynges Highnes, at yt lyketh hym addres his honorable lettres 
to be directed to the seid Robert Fenys, dischargyng hym 

309 



THE PASTON LETTERS 

1468 (?) Utterly of the menuraunce, occupacion, and receyt of the 
DEC. 15 revenuez of the said maners of Tyrlyngham and other, accord- 
yng to the tenour of the lettres labored by Sir Edwarde, for 
the maners assigned to hym from the Kyngs Highnes, directyd 
to the same Robert Fynes, or strayter if hit may be, and that 
I and myn assignez may peasseble rejoie theym ; and if eny 
person wold attempt to do the contrarye, that a comaunde- 
ment, yf it pies the Kyngs Hignes, by hym myght be yevyn 
to my Lorde Chaunceller to seall writtyngs sufficiaunt with his 
gret seall, in eydyng and assisting me and myn assignez in 
this same. 

And as for the maners of Esthall, Faukham, Asslie, and 
Chelsfeld, with th'appurtenauntez in the seid schire of Kent, 
whereof my hysbond at his departur was seassed, and my son 
sethens, unto the tyme that the Erie of Kent^ without eny 
inquission or title of right for the Kyng, by colour of the 
Kynges lettres patentes, entret into theym, and hym therof put 
owte, and now my Lorde of Essex ^ occupieth them in lyke 
maner and forme ; yf eny remedy therin wilbe hade, I pray 
yow attempt hit. 

Also, forther more, I hertely pray yow that if eny generall 
pardon be grauntyd, that I may have on for John Dane my 
servaunt, whom the said Robert Fenys of gret malice hath 
endyted of felonye, and that ze secretly labour this, and send 
me an aunswer in writtyng in as godly hast as ze may. As 
soon as that may pies yow to send me passels of costes and 
expences ze bere and pay for the said causez, I will truely 
content yow hit of the same, and over that rewarde yow 
to your plessour by the grace of Jesu, quo have yow in 
His blessed keping. Wrettyn in Suthwerk the xv*** daie of 
Decembyr. 

Be your awnt, Elizabeth Ponyngs. 

1 Edmund Grey, Lord Grey of Ruthin, and Baron Hastings, who was created 
Earl of Kent in 1465. 

2 Henry, Viscount Bourchier, created Earl of Essex in 1461. 



310 



EDWARD IV 

693 

ABSTRACT! 

The King to Sir Robert Fynys 

Commanding him not to levy the rents of Westwode, Estwell, Levelond, 14"° 
Horsmonden, Totyngdon, Eccles, Stondon, and Comebesdane in Kent. 

[This was evidently the copy of the writ obtained by Sir Edward Poynings 
referred to in the preceding letter. Below is written, ' The copie of the lettre 
myssyve endossid by the Kynges awn handes.'] 



694 

SIR GEORGE BROWNE TO JOHN PASTON^ 

To my trusty and welhelowyd cosyn, Jhon Paston, 
Esquyer, in haste. 

Loyawlte Ayme. 



Be zov/r howne 



Hyt schal newyr cum howt for me. 



G. Browne. 



1 [From Paston Mss., B.M.] 

2 [From Fenn, iv. 100.] The writer of this brief and enigmatical letter was the Date 
second husband of Elizabeth Paston, as mentioned in the preliminary note to No. 692 vinrer- 
preceding. If the John Paston, Esquire, to whom it is addressed be the first of that 

name, that is to say, Elizabeth Paston's brother, the date is not later than 1466 ; but taiD 
as it was certainly some years later before the writer became connected with the 
Pastons by marriage, the person addressed is more probably John Paston the youngest, 
brother of Sir John. The date of this communication, however, is unimportant. Its 
purport, of which Fenn has suggested rather a complicated explanation, appears to me 
simply a promise of secrecy on some subject : ' Loyaute, aime (i.e. Honour bright, my 
dear friend). It shall never come out for me.' 



END OF VOLUME IV 



Printed by T. and A. Constable, Printers to His Majesty 
at the Edinburgh University Press 



/^ 



24.0 

190^ 
v,4. 



"^-on letter^, , 
The Pas ton 'letters 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



-u-:i\k 















;.;-!^J ')";';; 






::f ^;^|''::^!^|-;| 'h: 



"'''',''.:'M'l' 'ivc'T''''-;' ;-/'':1^^m'^ 



:;^^-:-: .'; s^ii^^i.'; ';':;-)' ;;;:fl:i '? 






<-.;■; ^''I^S; 



'!(, 



^?,:'' 






i^i.fJ 






'f^, ;,,; 









