HANDBOUND 
AT  THE 


UNIVERSITY  OF 
TORONTO  PRESS 


&W  r 


& 


This  edition,  published  by  arrangement  with 
Messrs.  Archibald  Constable  and  Com- 
pany, Limited,  is  strictly  limited  to  650 
copies  for  Great  Britain  and  America,  of 
which  only  600  sets  are  for  sale,  and  are 
numbered  i  to  600. 


No 


/.5:q 


THE    PASTON    LETTERS 

A.D.    I422-I509 


THE 

PASTON  LETTERS 

A.D.     1422-1509 

NEW    COMPLETE    LIBRARY    EDITION 

EDITED  WITH  NOTES  AND  AN  INTRODUCTION 

BY 

JAMES    GAIRDNER 

OF   THE    PUBLIC    RECORD   OFFICE 


V0LU3IE    III 


LONDON  2  EXETER 

CHATTO   &  WINDUS     W     JAMES   G.   COMMIN 

1904 


DP) 


Edinburgh  :  T.  and  A.  Constabls,  Printers  to  His  Majesty 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

Henry  VI 
260 

WILLIAM  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  my  rith  wurchipfull  brodir,  Jon  Paston^  be  this  delyveryd. 

RYTH  wurchyfuU  brodyr,  I  recomande  me  to  zow,  ^454 
desiryng  to  her  of  zowr  willefar.  Byllyng  ^  the  ^^'"^-  ^ 
serjant  hathe  byn  in  his  centre,  and  he  come  to 
Lundon  this  weke  ;  he  sent  for  me  and  ast  me  how  I  fared  ; 
I  tolde  hym  her  is  pestelens,  and  sayd  I  fard  the  better  he  was 
in  good  hele,  for  it  was  noysyd  that  he  was  ded.  A  toke  me 
to  him  and  ast  how  my  suster  dede,  and  I  answeryd  wyll, 
never  better.  He  seyd  he  was  with  the  Lord  Gray,^  and  they 
talkyd  of  j.  jantilman  qweche  is  ward  to  my  Lord — I  re- 
member he  sayd  it  was  Harry  Gray  that  thei  talkyd  of ;  and 
my  Lord  sayd,  '  I  was  besy  with  J n  this  fewe  days  to  a  maryd 
hym  to  a  jantyllwoman  jn  Norfolke  that  schall  have  iiij.  C. 

1  [From  Fenn,  iii.  220.]  There  is  abundant  evidence  that  the  year  in  which  this 
letter  was  written  was  1454.  The  references  to  Lord  Grey's  offer  of  a  husband  for 
Elizabeth  Paston,  and  to  Sir  John  Fastolf  s  going  into  Norfolk,  of  which  William 
Paston  had  before  written  by  anticipation,  though  a  little  prematurely,  in  No.  254, 
are  in  themselves  sufficient  to  fix  the  chronology ;  but  the  mention  of  fealty  having 
been  done  by  a  new  Archbishop  of  Canterbury  and  a  new  Bishop  of  Ely  removes  any 
possible  doubt  on  the  subject. 

^  Thomas  Billing  was  made  a  serjeant  in  1453,  and  about  1469  was  appointed 
Chief  Justice  of  the  King's  Bench. 

3  Edmund,  Lord  Grey  of  Ruthyn.— Sw  Letter  250. 

VOL.  III. A  I 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1454  marc  to  hyr  mariage,  and  now  a  wyll  not  be  me,  for  iiij.  C. 
SEPT.  6  marc  wulde  do  me  hese  ;  and  now  he  wulde  have  his  mariage 
mony  hymself,  and  therefore  (quoth  he)  he  schall  mary  hym 
self  for  me.' 

This  wurds  had  my  Lorde  to  Byllyng,  as  he  tollde  me,  he 
understod  that  my  Lord  laboryd  for  his  owne  a  vayle,  and 
consaylyd  to  byd  her  be  wyse  ;  and  I  thanlkeyd  hym  for  hys 
good  consayll. 

I  sent  zow  an  answer  of  zowr  letter  of  Sir  Jon  Fastolf 
comyng  hom,  as  he  told  me  hem  self ;  neverthe  lesse  he  bode 
longer  than  he  sayd  hymself  he  schuU  a  do. 

He  tolde  me  he  schulde  make  j.  [one]  ende  be  twix 
Skroop^  and  my  suster  wuUe  he  is  in  Norfolke.  Many 
wulde  it  schulde  not  prove,  for  thei  say  it  is  an  onlykkely 
mariage. 

In  casse  Cressener  be  talkyd  of  ony  mor,  he  is  countyd  a 
jantyllmanly  man  and  a  wurshepfull.  Ze  knowe  he  is  most 
wurchipfuU  better  than  I.  At  the  reverens  of  Good,  drawe  to 
sume  conclusyn  ;  it  is  time. 

My  Lord  Chanseler  ^  come  not  her  sone  I  come  to  Lundon, 
nether  my  Lord  of  Yorke.^ 

My  Lord  of  Canterbury  *  hathe  received  hys  crosse,  and 
I  was  with  hym  in  the  kynggs  chamber  qwan  he  mad  hys 
homage.  I  tolde  Harry  Wylton  the  demeanyng  betwix  the 
kyng  and  hym  ;  it  war  to  long  to  wrythe. 

As  for  the  prist  that  dede  areste  me,  I  can  not  understand 
that  it  is  the  pryste  that  ze  mene. 

Her  is  gret  pestelens.  I  purpose  to  fle  in  to  the  contre. 
My  Lord  of  Oxforthe  is  come  azen  fro  the  se,  and  he  hath 
geth  hym  lytyll  thank  in  this  countre.  Much  more  thyng  I 
wulde  wrythe  to  zow,  but  I  lak  lysore. 

Harry  Wylton  sey  the  Kyng.     My  Lord  of  Ely  ^  hathe 

•  Stephen  Scroope. — See  vol.  ii.  p.  108,  Note  4.. 

•  Richard  Nevill,  Earl  of  Salisbury,  was  appointed  chancellor  in  April  14.54. 

•  Richard,  Duke  of  York,  at  this  time  Protector. 

•  Thomas  Bourchier,  who  was  translated  from  the  Bishopric  of  Ely  to  Canterbury 
in  April  1454. 

'  William  Grey.     He  received  his  temporalities  by  a  patent  of  the  date  of  this 
letter,  6th  September  1454,  which  shows  that  he  had  by  that  time  done  fealty. 
2 


HENRY  VI 

do  hys  fewthe  [kis  fealty~\.      God  have  zow  in  his  blyssyd    1454 
kepyng.  '*■'''''•  ^ 

Wretyn  at  Lundon  on  the  Fryday  be  for  owr  Ladys  day, 
the  Natyvite,  in  gret  hast.  I  pray  recomand  me  to  my  suster, 
and  cosyn  Cler. 

Be  yowr  broder,  Wm.  Paston. 


261 

ABSTRACT  1 

Sir  John  Fastolf  to  John  Paston. 

Has  searched  among  his  evidence,  and  found  a  release  of  Nycolas  Bockyng  i^r^-o 
of  his  messuage  and  lands  in  Castre,  'sometime  Fraunceys  and  afterward  John   sept,  iq 
Barboures,  and  Cassandre  his  wife,'  which  is  enrolled  in  BancOy  Rotulo  prima  de 
cart'u  scriptist  de  termino  Sc.   Trin.  anno  r.  R.  Henr.  Sexti,  23°.      Send  me  the 
copy  of  it.  ^Signature  not  in  hit  own  hand.) 

Castre,  19  Sept. 

.  [The  year  in  which  this  letter  was  written  is  uncertain,  but  it  cannot  be  earlier 
than  1454,  when  Fastolf  came  to  Caister,  nor  later  than  1459,  as  he  died  in  November 
of  that  year.] 

262 

RICHARD  SOUTHWELL  TO  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 
To  the  right  reverent  and  worshippfull  John  Paston,  in  haste. 

RIGHT  reverent  and  worshippfull   Sir,    and    my  right  I454(?) 
trusti  and  welbelovid  cosin,   I   recomaund  me  unto    o^t-  ^ 
you,  praiyng  you  hertily  to  remembr  me  unto  my 
Master  Radclyff,  so  that  by  your  gode  meanes  I  shall  mowe 

1  [From  MS.  Phillipps,  9735,  No.  227.] 

2  [From  Fenn,  iii.  376.]  This  letter  must  have  been  written  during  one  of  the 
periods  of  the  Duke  of  York's  ascendency,  and  on  a  comparison  of  possible  years  I 
am  inclined  to  assign  it  to  1454.  The  date  1460,  to  which  Fenn  ascribes  it,  would 
have  been  highly  probable  but  for  the  fact  that  John  Paston,  who  was  returned  to 
Parliament  in  that  year,  does  not  appear  to  have  arrived  in  London  even  on  the  12th 
October,  so  that  probably  he  had  not  left  Norwich  on  the  6th. 

3 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

i454(?)have  his  gode  mastershipp,  the  whiche  I  have  efFectuelly  to 

^'^'  ^    [ni]y  power  sewed  fore  ilj.  yer,  and  never  deserved  the  con- 

trarye  to  my  knowlegge,  by   my  trouth  ;    and  if  it  can  or 

may  be  founden  that  I  have,  I  will  obeye  me,  and  ofFre  me 

to  abyde  the  rewle  of  you  and  my  cosin  your  brothir,  &c. 

Also  my  Lord  of  Caunterbury  ^  Master  Waltier  Bl[a]kette 
will  help  forthe,  if  nede  be  ;  and  as  to  the  remenant  of  the 
Lordes,  if  the  case  requir  that  ye  may  understand  by  your 
wysdum  thei  be  displeased  with  me — as  I  trust  to  God  thei 
be  not, — I  beseche  you  to  remembr  that  I  have  aforetyme 
b[en]  accused  unto  the  Kings  Highnesse  and  the  Quenes  for 
owyng  my  pore  gode  will  and  service  unto  my  Lord  of  York 
and  other,  &c.  Wherof  I  suppose  that  Thomas  Bagham  is 
remembred  that  I  brought  hym  oones  from  my  Lady  a  purs 
and  V.  marc  therin,  and  to  Sir  Phelipp  Wenteworth  an  other 
and  a  O.  [looj.]  therin  for  their  gode  will  and  advise  therin 
to  my  Lady  and  all  us  that  were  appelled  for  that  cause,  not- 
withstanding the  King  wrote  to  my  Lord  by  the  meanes  of 
the  Due  of  Somersette,^  that  we  shuld  be  avoyded  from  hym, 
&c.  And  within  this  ij.  yer  we  wer  in  like  wise  laboured 
ageyns  to  the  Quene,  so  that  she  wrote  to  my  Lord'  to 
avoyde  us,  saiyng  that  the  King  and  she  coude  nor  myght 
in  no  wyse  be  assured  of  hym  and  my  Lady  as  long  as  we 
wer  aboute  hym,  with  much  other  thing,  as  may  be  sufficiently 
proved  by  the  Quenes  writing  under  herr  own  signett  and 
signe  manuell,  the  whiche  I  shewd  to  my  Lord  of  Caunterbury 
and  other  Lordes,  &c. 

I  prey  you  have  me  excused  that  I  encombr  you  with 
thces  matiers  at  this  tyme,  for  me  thinketh  ye  shuld  will  and 
desire  me  to  do  any  thing  to  your  honour  and  pleaser  at  any 
tyme,  wherto  I  shal  be  redy  and  welwilled  to  my  power  by 
the  grace  of  God,  who  have  you  ever  in  his  keping,  and  all 
youres. 

Writon  at  Norwiche,  on  Seint  Feithes  day,  in  haste. 

Youres,  Ric.  Suthwell. 

*  Thomas  Bourchier. 

*  Edmund  Beaufort,  Duke  of  Somerset. 

'  John  Mowbray,  Duke  of  Norfolk,  in  whose  household  R.  Southwell  had  an 
appointment. — F. 

4 


HENRY  VI 


263 

THOMAS  HOWES  TO  [JOHN  PASTON?]i 

PLEASE  your  maistreship  to  wete,  for  as  mych  as  the  1454 
wryt  directed  to  the  exchetor  cam  not  tyl  in  the  Vigil  oct.  or 
of  Symond  and  Jude,^  at  viij.  of  the  clocke  at  evyn,  '^°^- 
whiche  coude  in  no  wyse  profit  us  that  day  ;  notwithstondynge 
we  had  a  yoman  of  my  Lords  chamber,  and  were  at  Cowhaw, 
havyng  Bertylmeu  Elys  with  us,  and  ther  was  Long  Bernard 
sytting  to  kepe  a  court.  And  we  at  the  furst  Noy  come  in 
the  court,  and  Bertylmeu  havynge  this  termys  to  Bernard, 
seying,  '  Sir,  forasmych  as  the  Kyng  hathe  grauntyd  be  hese 
lettres  patent  the  wardship  with  the  profites  of  the  londes  of 
T.  Fastolf  duryng  hese  nun  age  to  you^  and  T.  H.,  wherfor 
I  am  comyn  as  ther  styward,  be  ther  comaundement,  upon 
ther  pocession  to  kep  court  and  lete,  whiche  is  of  old  custum 
usyd  upon  thys  day  ;  wherfor  I  charge  you,  be  the  vertu  herof, 
to  seas  and  kepe  nouthir  court  nor  lete,  for  ye  have  non 
autoryte.'  Quod  Bernard,  '  I  wyll  kepe  bothe  court  and  lete, 
and  ye  shal  non  kepe  here  ;  for  there  is  no  man  hath  so  gret 
autoryte.'  Than  quod  Bertylmeu,  *I  shal  sytte  by  you,  and 
take  a  reconysaunce  as  ye  do.'  '  Nay,'  quod  Bernard,  *  I  wyl 
sufFre  you  to  sytte,  but  not  to  wryte.'  *  Well,'  quod  Bertylmeu, 
'  thanne  forsybly  ye  put  us  from  our  pocession,  whiche  I  doute 
not  but  shalbc  remembryd  you  anothir  day,'  &c.  '  But,  Seres,' 
quod  he,  *  ye  that  be  tenaunts  to  this  manoyr,  we  charge  you 
that  ye  do  nowthir  seute  nor  servise,  no[r]  paye  ony  rents  or 
fermys  but  to  the  use  of  John  Paston  and  T. ;  fo[r]  and  ye 
do,  ye  shal  paye  it  ageyn  ;  and  as  for  on  yeer  past,  we  have 
sewyrtc  of  Skylly,  whiche  hath  resevid  it  of  you  to  ther  use.* 
And  thus  we  departid,  and  Bernard  kept  court  and  lete.    , 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  is  anonymous,  but  appears  to  be  in  the 
handwriting  of  Thomas  Howes.  It  must  belong  to  the  year  14.54,  when  the  wardship 
of  Thomas  Fastolf  of  Cowhaw  was  granted  to  Howes  and  John  Paston. 

'^  St.  Simon  and  St.  Jude's  day  is  the  28th  October.     The  Vigil  is  the  27th. 

3  So  in  MS.  The  writer  seems  to  be  confusing  the  direct  and  indirect  mode  of 
reporting  a  speech. 

5 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1454  And  ther  was  Ser  P.  Wentworth  and  hise  brothir,  yong 

OCT*  Of  Hopton,  yong  Brews?,  yong  Calthorp,  with  xxiiij.  horse  ;  and 
^°^'  we  spoke  with  non  of  hem,  nor  they  with  non  of  us,  for  we 
wold  not  seke  upon  hem.  And  we  have  enteryd  in  all  othir 
plasis  undir  this  forme.  I  wold  we  had  had  the  wryte  betymes 
lever  than  xxj.  of  myn  owne,  but  it  farith  thus  in  many  othir 
maters,  God  amende  hem. 

Memorandum. — To  sende  horn  wyn  and  ij.  quart  botelys. 

264 

ABSTRACT! 

Sir  John  Fastolf  to  his  right  well-beloved  Brother,  Richard  Waller. 

^454~7  My  Lord  is  and  hath  been  always  my  good  lord,  especially  now  that  he  is 

OCT.  30    chief  officer  under  the  King.     Commend  me  to  his  grace,  and  beg  him  to  favor 

my  matters  *  as  far  as  conscience  will, now  in  mine  old  age.'     Desires 

his  favor  and  credence  for  Henry  Fylongley  and  John  [Pajston,  whom  he  has 
desired  to  wait  on  Waller. 
Castre,  30th  Oct. 
Endorsed. — *  A  John  Paston  et  John  Bokkyng  ou  William  Barker.' 

[This  letter  is  written  in  Botoner's  hand.  The  date  is  probably  between  1454 
and  1457,  as  in  1458  Botoner  appears  to  have  been  in  London, — at  least  he  was  so  in 
November,  and  in  the  summer  also  he  was  away  from  Norfolk  j  and  in  1459  ^^^  S^th 
October  would  have  been  within  a  week  of  FastolPs  death,  when  he  must  have  been 
ill  inclined,  even  if  capable,  to  dictate  letters,  unless  of  very  special  urgency.] 

265 

WILLIAM  BARKER  TO  SIR  J.  FASTOLF* 

To  myn  ryght  worshipfull  mayster.  Sir  John  Fastolf. 

1 454      I  ^LEASE  youre  maystership,  the  cause  of  myn  terying  is 

NOV.  3      w-^     ^\^^^  J  must  ben  at  Norwyche  on  Monday  at  the  shyre 

to  steppe  the  oughtlawrye  of  John  Porter,  wheche  but 

if  be  holpen,  he  shalben  dowble  oughtlawcd  bothe  atte  the  sewt 

*  [From  MS.  Phillipps,  9735,  No.  273.] 

*  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  For  the  date  of  this  letter,  see  preliminary  note  to 
No.  258  (vol.  ii.  p.  333,  Note  i).  John  Porter,  who  was  at  this  time  in  FastolPs 
wrvice,  seems  to  have  gone  immediately  after  into  that  of  the  Duke  of  Norfolk. — See 
Nos.  268,  278. 


HENRY  VI 

of  the  Kyng  for  a  reskuse,  as  for  serteyn  money  he  oweth  to  on  1454 
Hewghe,  a  man  of  court.  And  also  the  next  day  I  shuld  ben,  ^ov.  3 
if  it  please  yow,  at  Saxthorp  with  a  certeyn  person,  as  I  shal 
telle  youre  maystership  here  after,  of  whom  I  shuld  have 
certeyn  evydences  of  the  maner  of  Saxthorp,  and  rentall,  and 
fyrmall  as  I  am  promysed.  And,  Sire,  as  for  alle  the  maters 
that  I  went  fore  in  to  Essex  and  Suffolk,  I  have  spedde  theym, 
as  I  shal  declare  to  youre  maystership  at  myn  comyng,  and 
brought  wryghtyng  from  theym.  And  as  for  myn  Lord  of 
Norffolk,  towchyng  your  money,  he  seyth  ye  shal  have  hit  with 
inne  this  xiiij.  dayes.  Hit  was  his  fyrst  mater  to  me  after  I 
hadde  delyvered  his  rynge.  The  money  is  redye,  but  he  seyd 
that  he  must  have  stoor  with  inne  hym,  for  he  loked  dayly 
whan  the  Kyng  wold  send  for  hym.  But  as  sone  as  Barette, 
his  tresorer,  come  home — whom  he  hath  sent  for  money, — ye 
shall  in  contynent  after  have  your  C//.  [;C^°'-']'  ^  iriade  to  his 
Lordship  as  I  hadde  no  thyng  know  in  the  mater  for  onely 
for  the  excuse  of  Sir  Thomas,  &c.  And  I  beseche  the  blessed 
Trinyte  preserve  yow,  myn  ryght  wurshipfuU  mayster,  after 
his  pleasaunce  and  youre  herts  desyre,  &c. 

Wreten  in  hast  at  Wroxham,  the  Sonday  after  Allehallwen 
day. 

Youre  bedeman  and  servaunt,      William  Barker. 


266 

SIR  JOHN  FASTOLF  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 
To  the  worshypfull  and  my  ryght  welbelovyd  cosyn^  John  Pas  ton. 

WORSHYPFULL  and  ryght  welbelovyd  cosyn,  I  nov.  11 
comaund  me  to  yow.  Lyke  you  to  wete  that  I 
have  resseyved  a  lettre  at  thys  tyme  from  John 
Bokkyng,  wyth  a  copie  of  the  patent  concernyng  the  warde- 
shyp  that  ye  wote  off,  by  whych  y  understand  that  ye  have 
both  wrought  and  holpen  by  your  grete  wysdom  to  bryng  thys 
matier  aboute,  whych  y  desyred  your  frendshyp  and  gode  avice 

'  [From  Fcnn,  iii.  224.] 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1454    for  the  suertee  of  the  seyd  waarde  ;  ^   and  for  expediclon  of 

MOV.  1 1    whych  y  thank  you  ryzt  hertlye,  and  pray  you  to  contynew 

foorth  your  gode  labours  in  the  same  yn  such  wyse  as  it  may 

be  made  sure  ynall  wyse,  thoy  it  cost  me  the  more  of  my  gode. 

And  where  as  it  ys  remembrcd  me  by  the  seyd  lettres  that 
y  shuld  labour  to  ghete  the  seyd  ward  yn  to  my  gouvernance, 
truely  y  can  not  see  how  y  coude  do  it  to  be  doon,  for  y  have 
none  acqueyntaunce  in  that  contree  that  y  coude  trust  too, 
wythoute  the  Shyreve  myght  be  my  tender  frende  in  thys 
cause,  or  othyr  such  as  ye  thynk  best.  Wherfor  y  pray  you 
hertlye  to  take  thys  mater  tenderly  to  hert,  and  that  ye  lyke 
seke  a  moyen  of  such  frendys  as  ye  can  best  avyse,  and  may 
verrayly  trust  uppon,  to  gyde  thys  mater  yn  such  wyse  as  myne 
entent  myght  be  sped  for  the  possession  of  it ;  for  now  that  y 
have  go  so  ferre  yn  the  matier,  I  wold  not  it  faylled  for  no 
gode,  but  it  preved  well,  and  toke  to  a  gode  conclusion. 

And  where  as  y  have  understand  late,  by  certeyn  well 
willers  to  you  warde,  whych  have  meoved  me,  that  yn  case  the 
seyd  warde  myght  be  had,  that  ye  desyre  an  alliaunce  shulde 
take  atwyx  a  doughter  of  yours  and  the  seyd  waard,  of  whych 
mocion  y  was  ryght  glad  to  hyre  off,  and  wylle  be  ryght  well 
wylling  and  helpyng  that  your  blode  and  myne  myght  increse 
yn  alliaunces.  And  yfF  it  please  yow  that  by  your  wysdom  and 
gode  conduyt  that  ye  wolde  help  beere  owte  thys  mater  sub- 
staunciallie  ayenst  my  partie  contrarie  and  eville  willers,  that  I 
myght  have  myne  entent,  I  ensure  you  ye  and  y  shuld  appoynt 
and  accorde  yn  such  wyse  as  ye  shuld  hale  you  ryght  well  plesed 
both  for  the  encresyng  of  your  lynage  and  also  of  myne.  And 
y  pray  you  be  ware  whom  ye  make  of  your  counsaille  and  myne 
yn  thys  mater,  and  that  it  may  be  well  bore  owte  er  ye  com 
thens,  and  yn  a  sure  wey  ;  and  yfF  y  had  knowe  rathyr  [i.e. 
earlier]  of  your  entent,  it  shuld  hafe  cost  me  more  of  my  gode 
before  thys,  to  hafe  com  to  a  gode  conclusion,  whych  y  pro- 
mysse  yhyt  shall  bee,  and  the  mater  take,  by  the  fayth  of  my 
bodye. 

Worshypfull  and  ryght  welbelovyd  cosyn,  y  pray  God 
spede  you  yn  thys  matier,  and  sende  you  your  gode  desyrs. 

'  T'iiomas  Fastolf  of  Cowhawe. — See  vol.  ii.  p.  323,  Note  i. 


HENRY  VI 

Wreten  at  Castr,  the  xj.  day  of  November  anno  xxxiij*  R.     1454 

H.   VI.  NOT    II 

Your  cosyn,  John  Fastolfe. 

Item,  cosyn,  I  pray  yow  when  ye  see  tyme  that  my  Lord  of 
Caunterbury  ^  and  my  Lord  Cromewell  ^  may  be  spoke  wyth 
for  the  godes  of  my  Lord  Bedford,  beyng  yn  dyvers  men 
handz,  be  compelled  to  be  brought  ynne,  as  ye  shall  see  more 
along  of  thys  mater,  wyth  the  wrytyngs  that  I  have  made 
mencion,  and  left  wyth  John  Bokkyng  and  William  Barker. 


267 

THOMAS  HOWES  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 

To  the  wurshepfull  SiVy  and  my  good  Maystyr  John  Paston^ 
at  London^  in  haste. 

WURSHEPFULL  and  reverent  Sir,  and  my  good  nov.  ij 
maistyr,  I  recomaund  me  to  zow  in  as  delygent 
wyse  as  on  my  part  apperteineth,  and  p[le]a[s]e 
yow  to  wete  that  my  maistyr*  was  right  well  pleasyd  with 
youre  feithefiill  labour  in  fulfellyng  the  patent  for  the  warrd  of 
A.  B.  C,  and  he  wyll  feithefully  labour  as  ye  have  avysed  hym 
be  wrytyng  of  John  Bokyng.  And  putte  my  maistyr  in  more 
corage,  I  meovyd  to  hym  upon  myn  hed  that  encas  be  the 
child  wer  wyse,  that  thanne  it  wer  a  good  maryage  be  twen  my 
wyfF  youre  doutir  and  hym  ;  and.  Sir,  my  maistyr  was  glad 
whan  he  herd  that  moyen,  cosetheryng  that  youre  doutyr  is 
desendyd  of  hym  be  the  modyr  syde.  And,  Sir,  I  have 
enqwerid  aftyr  the  seyd  child,  and  no  dout  of  but  he  is  lykly 
and  of  gret  wyt,  as  I  her  be  report  of  sondr  personez.  And  it 
is  so,  as  I  am  credebly  enformyd,  that  Jeffrey  Boleyn  maketh 
gret  labour  for  maryage  of  the  seyd  child  to  on  of  hese  douterez. 
I  wold  well  to  hym,  but  bettyr  to  yow.      Wherfor  that  ye 

^  Thomas  Bourchier.  *  Ralph,  Lord  Cromwell. 

'  [From  Fcnn,  iii.  230.]  *  Sir  John  Fastolf. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1454    delygently  labour  for  expedecyon  of  this  mater,  that  encas  ye 
«0T.  13    can  fynde  ony  moyan  ther  to  have  the  seyd  child,  and  we  shal 
do   feithefully  owre  delygens  in  lyke  wyse  her,  as  ye  avyse 
us,  &c. 

And,  Sir,  as  ye  thynke  with  avyse  of  my  Maistyr  Yelverton, 
Jenney,  and  otherez  my  maisterez  counsell  therin,  that  the 
SherefF  may  be  rewardyd,  and  yif  my  seyd  maisterez  counsell 
thynke  it  be  to  do'n,  that  thanne  ye  lyke  to  take  an  actyoun 
upon  anenteynt  [an  attaint]^^  wheche  ye  most  with  them  take 
upon  yow  at  this  tyme  in  my  maisterez  absence  ;  for  as  ye  do 
in  that  mater,  he  woU  hold  hym  content,  for  Wyllyam  Barker 
hathe  an  instruccyon  of  my  maisterez  intent  upon  the  same. 
And  I  send  John  Bokyng  a  copy  of  the  panell,  wheche  I  shewed 
yow  at  Castr,  &c.  Almyghty  Jesu  have  yow  eternally  in  hese 
mercyfull  governaunce. 

Wretyn  at  Castr,  the  Wednysday  next  aftyr  Seynt  Martyn, 
anno  xxxiij. 

Th.  Howys. 


268 
SIR  THOMAS  HOWYS  TO  JOHN  PASTON  = 

To  the  wurshepfull  and  reverent  Sir,  my  good  Maystir 
John  Paston^  in  all  goodly  haste. 

**^**^  13  EVERENT  and  wurshepfull  Sir,  and  my  good  maistyr, 
f^  I  recomaund  me  to  yow  in  as  louly  wyse  as  on  my  part 
aperteineth.  And  please  yow  to  wete  that  my  maistyr 
is  fully  purposed  to  sewe  ateynte,  whereupon  he  wrytethe  a 
lettere  directyd  to  yow  and  otherez,  for  the  wheche  I  beseke 
yow  to  be  my  good  maystyr  in  pursewyng  the  seyd  ateynte  ; 
and  also  my  maistyr  is  agreed  what  reward  ye  geve  the  SherefF 
he  holdeth  hym  content.  Wherfor,  that  yourc  reward  may  be 
the  larger,  so  he  woll  s  ther  upon  returne  the  panell  for  the 
seyd  ateynte  ;  and  thanne  yef  Jenney  wold  meove  my  Lord  of 

*  Thji  is  an  action  against  a  jury  that  has  given  a  false  verdict. 
«  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.J  '  WoU  corr  from  luoU. 

10 


HENRY  VI 

NorfFolke  that  he  wold  be  my  good  Lord,  amyttyng  me  for  1454 
hese  chapeleyn,  and  Jhankyn  Porter  for  hese  servaunt,  whcchc  "ov.  18 
is  hese  chek  roll,  it  shuld  cause  the  matere  to  have  the  redyer 
expedecyon,  as  well  be  the  SherefF  as  be  the  gret  jury.  And 
yef  the  processe  may  have  so  redy  sped  that  it  myght  be  had 
be  fore  my  Maystyr  Yelwerton  in  this  vaccacyon  tyme,  it  wer  a 
gret  counfort,  &c.  Beseking  yow  at  the  reverence  of  God,  and 
as  ever  my  power  servyse  may  be  at  your  comaundement,  that 
ye  effectualy  labour  this  matere  in  the  most  spedfull  wyse,  as 
youre  descrecyon,  with  Jenneyez  avyse,  thinketh  most  exped- 
yent ;  for  I  ferre  gretly  to  be  outlawed  or  the  seyd  processe 
shuld  be  brought  to  a  conclucyon  withoute  redy  processe  in  the 
seyd  ateynte.  And  I  here  no  sewer  tydinges  of  a  parlement ; 
but  rather  thanne  I  shuld  be  outlawed,  I  wold  yeld  my  self  to 
preson,  wheche  shuld  be  myn  undoyng,  and  thanne  to  be  with 
oute  remedy.  My  refformacyon  and  counforte  in  eschewyng 
that  lythe  holly  in  your  helpe  and  Jenneyez  at  thys  tyme,  be 
cause  my  maystyr  hathe  comytted  the  governaunce  of  the  seyd 
matere  to  yow,  and  what  expense  it  draweth  he  agreyth  to  bere 
it,  &c. 

I  beseke  Almyghty  Jesu  have  yow,  my  good  maystyr, 
eternaly  in  hese  me[r]cyfull  governaunce,  and  inspyre  yow 
with  hese  speryt  of  remembraunce  efFectualy  to  procede  in  this 
matere. 

Wretyn  breffly  at  Castre  the  Monday  next  be  fore  Seynt 
Edmond  the  Kyng,^  anno  xxxiij.  Regis  H.  vj"- 

Item,  Sir,  as  for  mony  to  the  sped  of  this  matere,  Bokkyng 
hathe  redy  in  comaundement  to  make  delevery  to  yow  what 
that  ye  nede,  so  there  shall  be  no  defaute  in  that,  &c. 

T.  HowYS. 

*  The  day  of  St.  Edmund  the  King  was  the  20th  November.    . 


II 


1454-9 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


269 

SIR  JOHN  FASTOLF  TO  JOHN  PASTON » 
To  my  right  welbilovyd  cosyn,  John  Paston. 

wise,  and  for  asmoche  as  it  is 

.  the  Lady  Hastinges  * 
doughter,  as  I  undrestande  ......        is 

lyneally  descendid  of  my  Lady  Felbrig  ^  is  sustre    . 

she  was  maried  to  Sir  Hug'  Fastolf, 
graunsir  to  this  same  Thomas  ;  and  the  Lady  Hastinges  is 
comen  of  Sir  Robert  Clyfton,  which  dweilid  besyde  Lynne. 
I  prey  yow,  cosyn,  enquere  of  my  Lady  Felbrigge  how  nygh 
they  bethe  of  kynrede,  and  whethir  they  mow  marie  to  ghedre 
or  not,  and  how  many  degrees  in  lynage  they  bethe  a  sundre, 
for  I  reporte  me  to  yowr  wyse  discrescion  what  the  law  wol 
sey  ther  ynne. 

Item,  it  is  so  that  Wyndam  *  came  yesterday  to  Jernemouth, 
and  is  at  Stapletons  ;  and  this  day  a  man  of  Stapletons  came 
to  me  to  wete  if  they  sholde  come  speke  with  me  or  not,  and 
I  have  sent  Sir  Thomas  to  hem  to  know  ther  entent  and  what 
they  meane  ;  and  also  he  shal  sey  unto  theym  that  I  woll  not 
mcdle  ther  with  but  as  law  and  consciens  will. 

This  is  the  tydinges  that  I  have  ;  I  pray  yow  send  me 
some  of  yours.  As  towching  the  North  cuntre,  Sperling  hathe 
tolde  yow.  And  God  kepe  yow.  Wretyn  at  Castre  this  same 
day.  J.  Fastolf. 

*  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  is  mutilated  and  its  date  is  uncertain, 
except  that,  being  dated  at  Caister,  it  must  have  been  written  between  1454  and 
H59- 

'  Margery,  widow  of  Sir  Edward  Hastings  of  Elsing,  and  daughter  of  Sir  Robert 
Clifton.  After  her  first  husband's  death  she  married  John  Wymondham,  who  bouglit 
the  manor  of  Felbrigg  from  Lord  Scales  and  the  executors  of  Sir  Simon  Felbrigg. — 
See  Blomefield,  viii.  112. 

»  Catherine,  widow  of  Sir  Simon  Felbrigg.  She  was  the  daughter  of  Anketill 
Mallory,  Esq.  of  Winwick,  in  Northamptonshire. 

♦  John  Wymondham  or  Wyndham. — See  Note  2. 

12 


HENRY  VI 

270 

EDMUND  CLERE  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 
To  my  welbeloved  cosyriy  John  Paston^  be  this  delivered. 

RIGHT  welbeloved  cosyn,  I  recomaund  me  to  you,  latyng     1455 
you  wite  such  tidings  as  we  have.  jan.  9 

Blessed  be  God,  the  Kyng  is  wel  amended,  and  hath 
ben  syn  Cristemesday,  and  on  Seint  Jones  day^  comaunded 
his  awmener  [almoner]  to  ride  to  Caunterbury  wyth  his  ofFryng, 
and  comaunded  the  secretarie  to  ofFre  at  Seint  Edwards. 

And  on  the  Moneday  after  noon  the  Queen  came  to  him, 
and  brought  my  Lord  Prynce  with  her.  And  then  he  askid 
what  the  Princes  name  was,  and  the  Queen  told  him  Edward  ; 
and  than  he  hild  up  his  hands  and  thankid  God  therof.  And 
he  seid  he  never  knew  til  that  tyme,  nor  wist  not  what  was 
seid  to  him,  nor  wist  not  where  he  had  be  whils  he  hath  be 
seke  til  now.  And  he  askid  who  was  godfaders,  and  the  Queen 
told  him,  and  he  was  wel  apaid. 

And  she  told  him  that  the  Cardinal  ^  was  dede,  and  he  seid 
he  knew  never  therof  til  that  tyme  ;  and  he  seid  oon  of  the 
wisist  Lords  in  this  land  was  dede. 

And  my  Lord  of  Wynchestr  *  and  my  Lord  of  Seint  Jones  ^ 
were  with  him  on  the  morow  after  Tweltheday,  and  he  speke 
to  hem  as  well  as  ever  he  did  ;  and  when  thei  come  out  thei 
wept  for  joye. 

And  he  seith  he  is  in  charitee  with  all  the  world,  and  so 

^  [From  Fenn,  i.  80.]  There  is  no  doubt  about  the  date  of  this  letter.  The  King 
fell  ill  at  Clarendon  in  the  autumn  of  1453,  and  remained  in  a  state  of  utter  imbecility 
during  the  greater  part  of  the  year  1454,  so  that  in  March  a  deputation  from  the 
House  of  Peers,  sent  to  communicate  with  him  on  the  death  of  his  Chancellor,  Car- 
dinal Kemp,  was  obliged  to  report  that  they  had  been  utterly  unable  to  obtain  from  him 
any  answer  or  sign  that  he  understood  the  least  thing  said  to  him.  It  appears  from 
this  letter  that  his  recovery  was  about  Christmas,  when  he  heard  for  the  first  time  of 
the  birth  of  his  son  fourteen  months  before,  and  of  the  death  of  Cardinal  Kemp  nine 
months  before. 

'  Dec.  27.  '  John  Kemp,  Cardinal  Archbishop  of  Canterbury. 

*  William  Waynflete,  Bishop  of  Winchester. 

•  Robert  Botyll,  prior  of  the  Order  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem 

13 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1455    ^^  wold  all  the  Lords  were.    And  now  he  seith  matyns  of  Our 
JAN.  9    Lady  and  evesong,  and  herith  his  Masse  devoutly ;  and  Richard 
shall  tell  yow  more  tidings  by  mouth. 

I  pray  yow  recomaund  me  to  my  Lady  Morley,^  and  to 
Maister  Prior,^  and  to  my  Lady  Felbrigge,^  and  to  my  Lady 
Hevenyngham,*  and  to  my  cosyn  your  moder,  and  to  my 
cosyn  your  wife. 

Wreten  at  Grenewich  on  Thursday  after  Twelftheday. 
Be  your  cosyn, 

Edmund  Clere. 


271 

ABSTRACTS 

Sir  John  Fastolf  to  Henry  Fylonglye  and  John  Paston. 

JAN.  24  Must  payj^40  to  the  Exchequer  this  term  for  the  ward  of  Thomas  Fastolf, 

in  part  payment  of  j^8o,  and  other  great  pajrments  at  the  same  time,  amounting 
to  ^"200  or  more.  Desires  him,  therefore,  to  speak  with  my  Lord  of  Canter-» 
bury,  whose  day  of  payment  is  long  past,  that  he  may  have  '  the  rather  ready 
payment'  of  his  duty;  *for  he  is  one  of  the  Lords  earthly  that  I  most  trust 
upon.'  Hopes  he  will  consider  the  great  loss  Fastolf  already  sustains  by 
♦the  great  good  the  King  oweth  me,  and  other  divers  Lords  to  my  great 
discomfort.* 

Castre,  24  Jan. 

[This  letter  could  not  have  been  written  before  the  year  1455,  ^  Sir  John  Fastolf 
only  came  to  reside  at  Castre  in  the  autumn  of  the  year  preceding.  The  wardship  of 
Thomas  Fastolf  was  procured  by  Sir  John  for  John  Paston  in  June  1454,  so  that  it  is 
highly  probable  he  had  to  pay  for  it  in  the  beginning  of  next  year.  In  the  year  follow- 
ing, again,  Fastolf  was  endeavouring  to  make  good  those  claims  against  the  Crown, 
which  he  here  merely  mentions  as  a  ground  of  indulgence  to  himself.] 


*  See  vol.  ii.  p.  84,  Note  2.  •  Probably  the  Prior  of  Bromholm. 
'  See  p.  12,  Note  3. 

*  Sir  John  Heveningham  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Reedesham, 
UnleM  he  married  a  second  time,  this  Elizabeth  was  now  his  widow. 

*  [From  MS.  Phillipps,  9735,  No.  a6o.] 


14 


HENRY  VI 


272 

SIR  JOHN  FASTOLF  TO  JOHN  PASTON 

To  my  right  trusty  and  welbelovyd  cosytiy  John  Pas  ton, 
in  goodly  haste. 

RYGHT  trusty  and  welbelovyd  cosyn,  I  comaund  me  to  1455 
yow.  And  please  yow  to  wete  that  I  am  avertysed  feb.  7 
that  at  a  dyner  in  Norwiche,  wher  as  ye  and  othyr 
jentylmen  wer  present,  that  that  ther  were  certeyn  personez, 
jentylmen,  whiche  utteryd  skornefuU  language  of  me,  as  in 
thys  wyse,  with  mor,  seyeng,  *  War  the,  gosune  [cousin  ?'\  war, 
and  goo  we  to  dyner  ;  goo  we  wher  ?  to  Sir  John  Fastolf,  and 
ther  we  shall  well  paye  ther  fore.'  What  ther  menyng  was, 
I  knowe  well  to  no  good  entent  to  me  ward  ;  wherfor,  cosyn, 
1  prey  yow,  as  my  truste  is  in  yow,  that  ye  geve  me  knowelege 
be  writing  what  jentylmen  they  be  that  had  this  report  with 
more,  and  what  mo  jentylmen  wer  present,  as  ye  wold  I  shuld 
and  wer  my  deute  to  do  for  yow  in  semblabyll  wyse.  And  I 
shall  kepe  yowr  informatyon  in  this  mater  secret,  and  with 
Godds  grace  so  purvey  for  hem  as  they  shall  not  all  be  well 
pleasyd.  At  suche  a  tyme  a  man  may  knowe  hese  frendes  and 
hese  fooes  asonder,  &c.     Jesu  preserve  and  kepe  yow. 

Wretyn  at  Caster,  the  vij.  day  of  Feverer,  anno  xxxiij. 
R.  H.  vj''-  John  Fastolf,  Knyght. 

1  [From  Fenn,  iii.  232.] 


15 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

273 

THOMAS  HOWYS  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  the  right  wurshepfull  Sir^  my  good  Maystyr  John  Paston. 

1455  T^  IGHT  worshepfuU  Sir,  and  my  good  maistyr,  I  re- 
r%  comaund  me  louly  unto  you,  thankyng  youre  good 
-■-  ^  maystyrshep  for  your  good  remembraunce  for  the 
cherche  of  Stokysby,  wherupon  I  have  desyred  my  trusty 
frend,  Wylliam  Worcestre,  to  come  be  the  Abot^  homward, 
besekyng  you  to  avertyse  hym  youre  good  avyse  how  he  may 
be  have  hym  best  in  this  mater  to  the  seyd  Abot,  etc.  And, 
Sir,  en  cas  ye  myght  be  at  a  leyser  to  be  with  my  mayster 
upon  Thursday  next  comyng,  forasmyche  as  Maistyr  Yelvyrton 
and  Jenney  shal  be  her,  ye  shuld  do  my  maistir  ryght  gret 
pleasure.  And  I  beseke  you  the  rather  for  my  sake,  for  at 
that  tymc  the  convcyaunce  of  al  materez  shal  be  comounyd 
of ;  and  I  know  verely  your  avyse  shall  peyse  depper  in  my 
maisterys  conceyt  thanne  bothyn  thers  shal  do.  Ye  have  dayly 
gret  labour  for  me,  God  reward  yow,  and  my  pore  preyer  ye 
shall  have,  &c.  I  beseke  Almyghti  Jesu  have  you  in  hese 
mercyfull  governaunce,  and  graunt  you  evyr  that  may  be  to 
your  most  herte  plessaunce,  &c. 

Your  chapeleyn  and  bedeman, 

Thomas  Howys. 

'  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  The  rectory  of  Stokesby  in  Norfolk  was  vacant  in 
the  year  1455.  The  right  of  presentation  ought  to  have  belonged  to  Sir  John  Fastolf, 
as  John  Fastolf — doubtless  of  Cowhawe — had  presented  in  1444  ;  but  it  was  allowed 
to  lapse  to  the  Bishop,  who  presented  Simon  Thornham,  LL.D.  Afterwards  it 
appears  that  James  Gloys  was  rector,  who  must  have  been  presented  by  John  or  Mar- 
garet Paston.  This  letter  was  probably  written  a  few  days  before  that  which  comes 
next. 

'  Of  St.  Benet^s,  Hulme.    His  name  was  John  Martin. 


16 


HENRY  VI 

274 

THE  ABBOT  OF  ST.  BENET'S  TO  JOHN  PASTON* 

^0  my  ryght  well  be  lovyd  John  Pastotty  Esquyer^  be  this  delivered. 

WURCHEPEFULL  Sire,  and  right  well  be  lovyd,  I  I455 
grete  yow  well,  desyryng  to  here  of  youre  well '*^*^"  '7 
fare,  praying  you  interlych  to  bie  with  me  at  dyner 
on  Seynt  Benett  day,  the  whiche  xall  be  on  Friday  next 
comyng,  or  ell[es]  in  brief  tyme  covenable  to  your  ease,  to 
th'entent  that  I  may  commoun  wyth  yow  of  divers  maters, 
the  whiche  I  purpose  to  have  a  doo  in  be  your  good  advyse, 
and  in  on  especyall  as  for  the  chirche  of  Stokesby,  whiche  I 
understand  xall  moche  be  reulyd  after  your  advyse  and  con- 
tent ;  tristyng  our  communicacion  had  in  the  seyd  [matters] 
xall  cause  pees  and  pleaser  to  all  parties  be  leve  of  our  Lord, 
the  whiche  Lord  mote  preserve  you  in  all  goode. 

Wreten  in  my  Monastery  the  xvij.  day  of  Marche. 
Be  your  good  frend. 

The  Abbot  of  S.  Benetts. 


ABSTRACT 

Sir  John  Fastolf  to  John  Paston  and  — —  Yelvertoh". 

Thanks  them  for  speeding  his  action  against  Thomas  Fauconere.     Begs  Between 
them  to  sue  it  out,  as  Fauconere  is  obstinate,  and  has  wrought  against  Byckwod        r  r  t\ 
right  unjustly,  who  owes  great  sums  to  divers  creditors,  etc.  t"5  5~" 

Castre,  20th  March. 

[The  date  of  this  letter  must  be  during  Sir  John's  residence  at  Caister  be^een 
1455  and  1459.] 


1  [From  Fenn,  iii.  a36.]  This  letter  was  written  by  John  Martin,  Lord  Abbot 
of  St.  Benet's  of  Hulme.  The  heads  of  this  monastery  were  mitred  abbots,  and  sat 
in  Parliament.  The  date  may  be  assigned  to  the  year  1455  for  two  reasons — first, 
that  in  that  year  St.  Benet's  day  (the  21st  of  March)  fell  on  a  Friday}  and  second, 
that  in  the  same  year  the  living  of  Stokesby  lapsed  to  the  Bishop  of  Norwich. 

VOL.  in. — B  17 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


276 

SIR  JOHN  FASTOLF  TO  JOHN  PASTON,  ESQ.1 

To  myn  ryght  weel  beloved  cosyn^  John  Past  on  y  Squier. 
1455    "T  X  TORSHIPFULL   cosyn,  I  recomaunde  me  to  yow. 

ARCH  29    Y/V       ^"*^  ^y^^  y^^  ^*^  ^^^^  ^^^^  ^^  ^^^^  ^5^"^^  ^  sende 
^  to   yow  myn  welbeloved  frende  and   servant,  Sir 

Thomas  Howys,  to  have  youre  good  councell  and  advyse  how 
and  in  what  wyse  he  may  best  be  demened  there  at  this  tyme 
in  his  yeldyng  to  the  Sheref  upon  his  exigend,  wheche  is  and 
shal  be  v.  tymes  called  as  on  Monday  next  comyng,  as  I 
understande ;  and,  the  same  by  good  and  discrete  advyse  con- 
cluded and  sette  in  a  good  weye  by  sewertes  found  to  appere  at 
London  the  day  of  the  retorn  of  the  wrytte  or  otherwyse,  that 
thenne  if  ye  thenke  hit  be  to  do'n  [to  do\  ye  lyke  to  take  upon 
yow  to  comon  with  myne  Lord  of  Norwyche,'*  recomaundyng 
me  to  hys  good  and  tender  Lordship,  and  declaryng  to  hym 
how  and  in  what  wyse  the  seyd  Sir  Thomas  was  demened  in 
the  oyer  and  determynery  and  sethe  how  he  hath  wrongously  and 
with  ought  cause  be  vexed  by  John  Andrews  and  other,  and 
greetly  trowbled,  wherupon  this  atteynt  now  is  grownded,  in 
such  wyse  as  ye  thenk  best  to  be  done  ;  and  that  his  Lordship 
by  youre  medyacion  here  after  geve  not  any  favore  to  any 
persone  or  persones  on  myne  contrarye  partye  for  any  synystre 
informacion  geven  other  wyse  than  the  trought  in  the  mater 
shal  require,  as  he  shal  weel  understande  by  youre  good 
reporte,  for  ye  know  the  same  mater  weel.  Wherfore,  cosyn, 
I  praye  yow  that  ye  wole  tender  the  same  for  the  weel  and 
good  speed  therof,  as  myne  syngler  trust  is  in  yow.  And  the 
blessed  Trinyte  preserve  yow  to  his  pleaser. 
In  hast,  at  Castre,  the  xxix.  day  of  Marche. 

Youre,  John  Fastolf,  Chr. 

*  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  The  reference  here  made  to  the  process  of  attaint, 
which  Fastolf  had  resolved  to  sue  in  November  1454.  {see  No.  268),  shows  that  this 
letter  must  belong  to  the  month  of  March  following.     It  is  written  in  Barker's  hand. 

•  I  suspect  *  Norwyche '  is  here  a  slip  of  the  pen,  and  that  '  my  Lord  of  Norfolk  ' 
wa»  intended. 

18 


HENRY  VI 

Item,  cosyn,  I  sende  youre  a  lettre  to  delyver  to  myne  1455 
seyd  Lord  with  a  copye  of  the  same,  wheche  I  praye  yow  to  march  29 
se,  and  if  ye  thenk  hit  be  to  do'n,  delyveret  [deliver  it]  youre 
self,  &c.,  to  th'entent  he  myght  know  the  disposicion  of  the 
pepul  how  they  be  sette,  &c. ;  for  he  weel  advertysed  in  this 
mater  shalbe  a  greet  supporter  of  trought  in  this  be  half,  for 
the  partye  contrarye  wole  do'n  that  they  can  to  labore  the 
jure,  and  don  to  have  theym  rewled  after  theyr  entent  and 
contrary  to  trought ;  wheche  mater  I  remytte  ondly  to  youre 
ryght  wyse  discrecion. 


277 
SIR  JOHN  FASTOLF  TO  THE  DUKE  OF  NORFOLK  1 

RIGHT  hy  and  myghty  Prynce,  my  right  gode  and  march  (?) 
gracyous  Lord,  I  recomaund  me  to  your  gode  Lord- 
ship, etc.  And  please  itt  your  Hyghnesse  to  wete 
that  Sir  Philip  Wenteworth  purchasid  the  Kyngs  patentis  of 
the  ward  of  the  heyer  and  londes  of  a  por  kynnesman  of 
myne  called  John  Fastolf  of  Cowhawe,  late  passed  to  God, 
to  the  grett  hurte  and  distruccion  as  well  of  the  inherit- 
ance of  the  seyd  heyer  as  interrupcion  and  breking  of  the 
last  will  of  the  seyd  John,  and  also  to  my  grett  troble  and 
dammage ;  and  for  asmoche  as  it  fortowned  be  grase  the  seyd 
patentes  to  be  mystake,  so  that  they  were  not  laufuU  ne 
sufFycyent,  be  avyce  of  conceyll,  certeyn  persones,^  to  myn 
use,  purchesid  be  the  Kyngs  letters  patentes  sufFycyent  and 
laufuU  of  the  ward  of  the  seyd  londes.  And  the  rigth  of  thes 
bothe  patentes  hath  be  putte  in  juges  and  lerned  men,  afFor 

1  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  The  ms.  of  this  is  a  corrected  draft.  Although 
the  person  addressed  is  not  named,  the  style  in  which  he  is  addressed,  and  particu- 
larly the  last  sentence,  leave  no  doubt  that  it  is  the  Dulce  of  Norfolk.  Indeed,  this  is 
not  unlikely  to  be  the  letter  mentioned  in  the  postscript  to  the  last,  of  which  a  copy 
or  draft  was  sent  along  with  the  original  to  John  Paston  that  he  might  deliver  tne 
latter,  only  if  he  approved  of  its  contents.  If  so,  it  is  probable  that  Paston  withheld 
it,  as  we  find  by  the  letter  immediately  following  that  Fastolf  addressed  another 
memorial  to  the  Duke  on  the  subject  of  his  dispute  with  Wentworth  four  days  later. 

'  They  were  John  Paston  and  Thomas  Howes,  and  their  patent  was  dated  6th 
June  32  Hen.  vi.  (1454). — See  Rolls  of  Pari.  v.  371. 

19 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1455  horn  the  seyd  Sir  Philipp  ne  his  conceyll  cowd  never  prove  hes 
MARCH  (?)  tytill  lawfull  be  his  seyd  patents,  and  this  notwithstanding  in- 
tendith  be  fors,  as  I  understand,  to  take  the  profytes  of  the 
seyd  londes  ageyns  all  lawe  and  concyence.  Beseching  your 
Lordchip  to  tender  me  in  myn  age  and  sekenesse  that  may 
not  ryde  ne  help  myself,  and  of  your  habundant  grace  to 
supporte  me  in  my  right,  that  I  be  not  be  fors  ageyns  lawe 
and  concyence  kepte  from  the  possescion  of  the  seyd  londes 
in  this  contre,  wher  ye  be  Prynce  and  Sovereyn  next  owr 
Sovereyn  Lord. 

The  following  memoranda  occur  on  the  back  : — 

Br[adwe]ll  juxta  Jernemut. 
Kirley  juxta  Leystoft,  viij//. 

Foxhole \ 

Cowhaw  in  Nakton  Vxviij/i. 

on  this  side  Yepiswich,  iij.  myl,J 
Langston  in  Brustall,  \"V 

ij.  myle  beyond  Yepiswich,/  ^ 
Bentele,  ij.  mile  beyond  Brustall,  xiiij/x.  (?) 


278 

SIR  JOHN  FASTOLF  TO  THE  DUKE  OF  NORFOLK » 

APRIL  2      I  '%  IGHT  high  and  myghty  Prynce,  my  right  noble  and 

r^      good  Lord,  in  my  right  humble  wyse  I  recomaunde 

me  to  your  good  grace.     And  for  the  noble  lordship 

and  supportacion  shewid  unto  me  at  all  tymes,  I  beseche  our 

Lord  God  guerdon  yow,  where  as  I  may  not,  but  only  as 

yowr  daily  and  contynuell  bedeman,  now  in  myn  age,  pray  for 

'  [From  Fcnn,  iii.  338.]  Although  there  is  no  direction  upon  this  letter,  it  was 
evidently  addressed  to  the  Duke  of  Norfolk,  as  it  speaks  of  '  your  Castle  of  Framling- 
ham/  The  absence  of  any  written  address  Fcnn  accounts  for  by  supposing  the  letter 
to  have  been  enclosed  in  a  cover ;  but  as  it  appears  that  the  original  contained  at  least 
one  passage  which  was  crossed  out  (^see  page  341  in  Fenn),  we  may  with  greater  pro- 
bability consider  it  to  have  been  a  corrected  draft,  like  the  last,  sent  to  John  Paston 
for  his  approval.  The  dispute  with  Sir  Philip  Wentworth  and  the  matters  of  John 
Porter  and  Sir  Thomas  Howes,  here  referred  to,  both  point  to  the  year  1455  as  the 
date  of  this  letter. — See  Nos.  265,  268. 

20 


HENRY  VI 

the  good  prosperite  of  youre  right  highe  and  noble  estate,  as  I  1455 
am  gretly  bounde  to  doo ;  prayng  tendirly  yowre  Highnesse  ^pril  2 
to  contynue  yowre  good  lordship  and  supportacion  in  the 
materes  touchyng  your  servaunt  John  Porter  and  my  pore 
Chappelleyn  Sir  Thomas  Howes,  trustyng  verily  to  God  that, 
with  the  supportacion  of  your  good  Lordship,  there  mater 
shall  yette  come  to  a  good  conclusion  in  punisshyng  of  perjure 
and  embracery  that  many  yeris  hathe  ben  and  yette  is  usid  in 
this  shire,  whiche  were  grete  merite,  and  to  my  conceyte,  in 
yow  that  ar  soo  noble  a  Prynce,  a  singler  renoune,  as  for  the 
beste  dede  that  may  be  doo  for  the  weel  of  bothe  shires. 

And  in  like  wise  that  it  please  youre  right  good  grace 
to  contynue  youre  noble  favour  and  supportacion  to  me  in 
remedyeng  the  force  doon  by  Sir  Philip  Wentworth,  kepyng 
now  wrongful  possession  of  certeyn  londes  in  Suffolk,  nygh 
youre  Castel  of  Framyngham ;  whiche  londs  certeyn  of  my 
frendes,  to  myn  use,  have  of  the  Kyngs  graunte  by  his  lettres 
patent  byfore  ony  patent  that  the  seid  Sir  Philip  hathe,  whiche 
is  my  singler  matier  in  myn  owen  parte  that  I  have  now  to 
doo,  as  my  cosyn  Paston  can  enforme  yowr  Lordship,  for  he 
knowith  the  mater  and  myn  hole  entente,  to  whom  your  good 
grace  lyke  to  yife  credence.  He  cometh  to  awaite  upon  your  ' 
Lordship  at  this  tyme,  as  I  understande,  by  my  cosyn  youre 
servaunt  Richard  Suthwell,  youre  Lordship  desired. 

Right  highe  and  myghty  Prynce,  my  noble  and  right  good 
Lord,  I  beseche  the  Holy  Goste  be  with  yow,  and  evere  more 
sende  yow  the  accomplishment  of  youre  right  noble  desires  to 
his  plesir  and  youres. 

Writen  at  my  pore  place  of  Castre,  the  ij*^'  day  of  ApriU. 
Your  humble  man  and  servaunt, 

J.  Fastolf. 


21 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 
279 

ABSTRACT ' 
Sir  John  Fastolf  to  John  Paston. 
jACC  Thanks  him  for  his  letters,  and  the  answer  he  made  to  Bokkyng.     Does 

>JJ       .    1 I. i^   u: «^___«_: ..u-  I  9  ..u-   ...:» :_.»  TXrilK^m 


MAY  3 


not  know  how  to  answer  him  concerning  the  ward,^  the  suit  against  William 
Jenney  and  Sir  Thomas,  etc.  If  Paston  could  be  at  London  this  term,  even 
for  three  days,  it  would  speed  better  than  FastolPs  writing,  and  Fastolf  will 
pay  his  costs.  If  he  cannot,  Paston  must  use  his  own  discretion,  and  Fastolf 
will  abide  by  what  he  does.  It  would  be  a  great  rebuke  if  the  matter  of  the 
ward  went  against  us,  *for  nowadays  ye  know  well  that  law  goeth  as  it  is 
favored,  and  after  that  the  attorneys  be  wise  and  discreet  in  their  conduct.* 
Castre,  3  May. 

[This  letter,  being  dated  at  Caister  in  the  month  of  May,  cannot  be  earlier  than 
1455,  and  the  references  to  the  matter  of  the  ward  and  the  suit  against  Sir  Thomas 
Howes  seem  to  fix  it  to  that  year.] 


280 

ABSTRACT  » 
Richard  Calle  to  John  Paston. 

1455(0  Thornc  did  not  come  to  him,  nor  could  he  learn  anything  about  him  from 
MAY  8  Sir  Thomas  Howes,  except  that  Howes  had  informed  him  of  what  Paston 
commanded  Calle  to  tell  his  wife.  Will  not  distrain  till  he  hear  from  Paston. 
Howys  trusts  to  make  sufBcient  reckoning  of  all  things  touching  Fastolf,  so 
that  neither  he  nor  Paston  be  hurt.  He  will  do  nothing  in  future  without 
Paston's  advice.  Desires  him  to  remember  John  Elger,  Bocking,  and  others 
*  for  the  rescues  which  was  made  for  Jankyn  Porter.'  Remember  James 
Gresham  to  withdraw  the  suit  for  W.  Magges.  No  News. 
8  May. 

[The  allusion  to  John  or  Jankyn  Porter  in  this  letter  makes  it  probable  that 
it  was  written  in  the  year  1455. — See  No.  278. 

'  [From  MS.  Philllpps,  9735,  No.  244.] 

'  Thomas  Fastolf— .Jr^  vol.  ii.  p.  323,  Note  i. 

'  [From  Paston  Mss,,  B.M.] 

22 


HENRY  VI 

281 

ABSTRACT  1 

*  Thomas  Canon,  the  Helder,  of  Mekyll  Pagrave,* 
TO  John  Paston. 

Desires  to  hear  of  his  'durat  prosperite  and  welfare.*     Hopes  he  will      ^455 
protect  him  as  he  has  done,  if  any  man  will  put  him  to  any  wrong.     Has    may  16 
land  in  Lytyl  Pagrave  and  in  Lytyldonham,  called  Strangys,  which  he  wishes 
to  sell  to  Paston  before  any  other,  on  condition  that  he  will  '  keep  it  counsel  * 
from  John  Pagrave  till  he  and  the  writer  have  accorded. 

At  Sporle,  Friday,  after  Ascension  Day,  33  Hen.  vi. 

282 

MEMORIAL  TO  HENRY  VI 2 

Tradatur  J.  P, 

MOSTE  Cristen  Kyng,  ryght  hygh  and  myghty  Prince,  may  ai 
and  our  mooste  redoubted  souverayn  Lorde,  we 
recomaunde  ws  as  humblye  as  we  suffice  unto  your 
hygh  excellence,  where  unto  please  it  to  wete  that  for  so 
moche  as  we  hyre  and  understand  to  our  grettyst  sorowe 
erthlye  that  our  ennemyes  of  approuved  experience,  such  as 
abyde  and  kepe  theym  sylf  under  the  whyng  of  your  Magestee 
Royall,  have  throwen  unto  the  same  ryght  stedyousely  and 
ryght  fraudulentlye  manye  ambyguytees  and  doubtes  of  the 
fayth,  lygeaunce,  and  dewtee  that,  God  knowyth,  we  beere 
unto  your  Hyghnesse,  and  have  put  theym  yn  as  grete  devoyr 
as  they  coude  to  enstraunge  ws  from  your  mooste  noble 
presonce  and  from  the  favour  of  your  goodc  grace;  whych 

1  [From  MS.  Phillipps,  9735,  No.  252.] 

*  [From  Fenn,  iii.  178.]  This  is  a  copy  of  the  memorial  drawn  up  by  the  Duke 
of  York  and  the  Earls  of  Warwick  and  Salisbury  just  before  the  first  battle  of  St. 
Albans,  which  the  Duke  of  Somerset  and  his  friends  would  not  allow  to  be  pre- 
sented to  the  King.  Although  this  copy  is  without  date,  the  original  was  dated  at 
Ware,  the  21st  May. — See  Rolls  of  Pari.  v.  281,  where  the  whole  document  is  cited. 

23 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

^455    goode  grace  to  ws  ys  and  owe  to  be  our  singuler  and  mooste 
MAY  21    desyred  yoie  and  consolacion:  We  at  thys  tyme  be  comyng 
wyth  grace  as  your  true  and  humble  liege  men,  toward  your 
seyd   Hygh  Excellence  to  declare   and   shew  therto  at  large 
owr  sayd  fayth  and  ligeaunce,  entendyng  wyth  the  mercye  of 
Jesu  yn  the  seyd  comyng,  to  put  ws  yn  as  diligent  and  hertye 
devoyr  and  dewtee  as  onye  your  lyege  men  on  lyve  to  that  at 
may  avaunce  or  preferre  the  honnour  and  wellfare  off  the  sayd 
Mageste   Royalle  and   the  seurte  of  the  sayd  most  notable 
person;    the   whych   [we]   beseche   our    blessed    Creature    to 
prosper  [in]  as  grete  honnor,  yoie,  and  felicitie  as  ever  had 
onye  prince  erthlye,  and  to  your  sayd  Hyghnesse  so  to  take, 
accept,  and  repute  ws,  and  not  to  plese  to  geve  trust  or  con- 
fidence unto  the  sinistrez,  maliciouse,  and  fraudulent  laboures 
and  rapportes  of  our  sayd  ennemyes  unto  our  comyng  to  your 
sayd  moste  noble  presence;  where  unto  we  beseche  humblye 
that  we  may  be  admitted  as  your  liege  men,  to  th'entent  to 
show  ws  the  same ;  wheroff  yerstenday  we  wrote  our  lettres  of 
our  entent  to  the  ryght  reverent  fadre  yn  God,  the  Arche- 
bysshop  of  Caunterburye,^  your  Chauncellr  of  England,  to  be 
shewed  to  your  sayd  Hyghnesse,  whereofF,  forsomoch  as  we 
be  not  acerteyned  whethyr  our  sayd  entent  be  by  hys  fadre- 
hode  shewed  unto  your  seyd  goode  grace  or  not,  we  sende 
thereofF  unto  thys  closed  a  copy  of  our  said  lettres  of  our 
disposicion    toward    your    sayd    Hygh    Excellence   and    the 
honnour  and  weele  of  the  land,  whereynne  we  woUe   per- 
severe wyth  the  grace  of  our  Lorde. 

^  Fenn  states  that  on  the  margin  of  the  ms.,  in  a  hand  nearly  coeval  with  the 
letter   itself,  is   written,  'Memorandum    quod    diet'    literae  (?)   Dominorum  direct' 

Archiepiscopo   Cant,  est   apud '       What  followed    is  lost,  the  paper 

being  torn.     The  letter  to  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  however,  will  be  round 
quoted  at  full  length  in  the  Rolls  of  Parliament,  v.  280-1. 


^4 


HENRY  VI 

283 

THE  BATTLE  OF  ST.  ALBANS  1 

Bellum  apud  Seynt  Alhons. 

BE  yt  knowen  and  hadde  in  mynde  that  the  xxj.  day  of  1455 
May  the  xxxiij.  zere  of  the  regne  of  Kyng  Herry  the  may  2 1-22 
Sext,  our  sovereigne  Lord  Kyng  toke  his  jurnay  from 
Westmynster  toward  Seynt  Albones,  and  rested  at  Watford 
all  nyght ;  and  on  the  morwe  be  tymes  he  cam  to  Seynt 
Albones,  and  wyth  him  on  his  partye  assembled  under  his 
baner  the  Duyke  of  Bockingham,  the  Duke  of  Somersete,  the 
Erie  of  Penbrok,  the  Erie  of  Northumburlond,  the  Erie  of 
Devynsshire,  the  Erie  of  Stafford,  the  Erie  of  Dorsete,  the 
Erie  of  Wyltsshire,  the  Lorde  ClyiFord,  the  Lord  Dudley,  the 
Lord  Burneys,  the  Lord  Rose,  wyth  other  dyversse  knyghtes, 
squyeres,  and  other  gentilmen  and  yemen  to  the  nounbre  of 
ij""'  [2000]  and  moo.  And  upon  the  xxij.  day  of  the  seyde 
moneth  above  rehersed  assembled  the  Duyk  of  Yorke,  and 
wyth  hym  come  yn  companye  the  Erie  of  Salesbury,  the  Erie 
of  Warrewyke  with  diverse  knyghtes  and  squyers  unto  ther 
partye  into  the  felde,  called  the  Key  Feld,  besyde  Seynt 
Albones.  Fyrthermore,  oure  seyd  sovereyne  Lord  the  Kyng, 
heryng  and  knowyng  of  the  seyde  Dukes  comyng  with  other 
Lordes  afore  seyde,  pygth  his  baner  at  the  place  called  Boslawe 
in  Seynt  Petrus  Strete,  whych  place  was  called  afore  tyme  past 
Sandeforde,  and  commaundeth  the  warde  and  barrers  to  be 
kepte  in  stronge  wyse ;  the  for  seyde  Duyk  of  York  abydyng 
in  the  feld  aforeseyde  frome  vij.  of  the  clokke  in  the  morn  tyl 
yt  was  al  most  x.  without  ony  stroke  smcton  on  eyther  partye. 
The  seyde  Duke  sende  to  the  Kyng  our  sovereyne  Lord,  be 
the  avyse  of  his  councell,  prayng  and  be  sekyng  hym  to  take 
him  as  his  true  man  and  humble  suget;  and  to  consider  and 
to  tender  at  the  reverence  of  Almyghty  God,  and  in  way  of 

1  This  paper  is  reprinted  from  the  Archaologia,  vol.  xx.  p.  519,  to  which  it  wa» 
communicated  by  Mr.  Bayiey,  keeper  of  the  records  in  the  Tower,  in  182*. 

25 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1455  charite  the  true  entent  of  his  comyng — to  be  good  and 
MAY2I-2  2  gj-acyous  sovereyne  Lorde  to  his  legemen,  whech  with  al  ther 
power  and  mygth  wille  be  redy  at  alle  tymes  to  leve  and  dye 
with  hym  in  his  rigth.  And  to  what  thyng  yt  shoulde  lyke 
his  Mageste  Ryall  to  commaunde  hem,  yf  yt  be  his  worsship, 
kepyng  right  of  the  Croune  and  welffare  of  the  londe ;  *  More 
over,  gracyous  Lord,  plese  yt  zour  Majeste  Ryall  of  zour 
grete  goodnesse  and  ryghtwesnesse  to  enclyne  zour  wille  to 
here  and  fele  the  ryghtwyse  partye  of  us  zoure  sugettes  and 
legemen ;  fyrst,  prayng  and  besechyng  to  oure  Lord  Jesus  of 
his  hye  and  myghty  power  to  geve  un  to  zou  vertu  and 
prudence,  and  that  thorugh  the  medyacyon  of  the  glorious 
martyr  Seynt  Albon  to  geve  zou  very  knowleche  to  knowe 
the  entent  of  oure  assembleng  at  this  tyme;  for  God  that  is 
[in]  Heven  knoweth  than  our  entent  is  rightful  and  true. 
And  there  fore  we  pray  unto  Al  myghty  Lord  Jesus  these 
wordes  —  Domine  sis  clipeus  defensionis  nostra.  Wherefore, 
gracyus  Lord,  plese  it  your  hyghe  Majeste  to  delyvere  such 
as  we  wole  accuse,  and  they  to  have  lyke,  as  they  have 
deserved  and  done,  and  ze  to  be  honorabled  and  worsshepyt 
as  most  ryghtfFull  Kyng  and  oure  governour.  For  and  we 
shall  now  at  this  tyme  be  promysed,  as  afore  this  tyme  ys  not 
unknowen,  of  promes  broken  whech  ful  fayth  fully  hath  ben 
promysed,  and  there  upon  grete  othes  made,  we  wyll  not 
now  cesse  for  noon  such  promysse,  surete,  ne  other,  tyl  we 
have  hem  whych  hav  deserved  deth,  or  elles  we  to  dye 
there  fore.' 

And  to  that  answered  the  Kyng  our  sovereyne  Lord,  and 
seyde :  *  I,  Kyng  Herry,  charge  and  comaund  that  no  maner 
persone,  of  what  degre,  or  state,  or  condicyon  that  evere  he 
be,  abyde  not,  but  voyde  the  felde,  and  not  be  so  hardy  to 
make  ony  resystens  ageyne  me  in  myn  owne  realme;  for  I 
shall  knowe  what  tray  tor  dar  be  so  bold  to  reyse  apepull  in 
myn  owne  lond,  where  thorugh  I  am  in  grete  desese  and 
hcvynesse.  And  by  the  feyth  that  I  owe  to  Seynt  Edward 
and  to  the  Corone  of  Inglond,  I  shal  destrye  them  every 
moder  sone,  and  they  be  hanged,  and  drawen,  and  quartered, 
that  may  be  taken  afterward,  of  them  to  have  ensample  to  alle 
26 


HENRY  VI 

such  tray  tours  to  be  war  to  make  ony  such  rysyng  of  peple     1 45  5 
withinne  my  lond,  and  so  traytorly  to  abyde  her  Kyng  and  nAyii-at 
governour.     And,  for  a  conclusyon,  rather  then  they  shall 
have  ony  Lorde  here  with  me  at  this  tyme,  I  shall  this  day, 
for  her  sake,  and  in  this  quarrell  my  sylff  ly ve  or  dye.' 

Wych  ansuere  come  to  the  Duke  of  Yorke,  the  wheche 
Duke,  by  the  avyce  of  the  Lordes  of  hys  Counceill,  seyde 
unto  hem  thise  wordes  :  '  The  Kyng  our  sovereyne  Lord  will 
not  be  reformed  at  our  besechyng  ne  prayer,  ne  wylle  not 
understonde  the  entent  that  we  be  comen  heder  and  assembled 
fore  and  gadered  at  this  tyme  ;  but  only  ys  full  purpose,  and 
there  noon  other  wey  but  that  he  wole  with  all  his  power 
pursue  us,  and  yf  ben  taken,  to  geve  us  a  shameful  deth, 
losyng  our  lyvelode  and  goodes,  and  our  heyres  shamed  for 
evere.  And  ther  fore,  sythe  yt  wole  be  noon  othere  wyse  but 
that  we  shall  ootterly  dye,  better  yt  ys  for  us  to  dye  in  the 
feld  than  cowardly  to  be  put  to  a  grete  rebuke  and  asshamefful 
deth  ;  more  over,  consederyng  yn  what  peryle  Inglonde  stondes 
inne  at  thys  owre,  therefore  every  man  help  to  help  power  for 
the  ryght  there  ofFe,  to  redresse  the  myschefF  that  now  regneth, 
and  to  quyte  us  lyke  men  in  this  querell ;  preyng  to  that 
Lord  that  ys  Kyng  of  Glorye,  that  regneth  in  the  kyngdom 
celestyall,  to  kepe  us  and  save  us  this  day  in  our  right,  and 
thorugh  the  helpe  of  His  holy  grace  we  may  be  made  strong 
to  with  stonde  the  grete  abomynable  and  cruell  malyse  of 
them  that  purpose  fully  to  destrye  us  with  shameful  deth. 
We  ther  fore,  Lord,  prey  to  The  to  be  oure  confort  and 
Defender,  seyng  the  word  afore  seyde,  Domine  sis  clipeus  defen- 
sionis  nostra.^ 

And  whanne  this  was  seyde,  the  seyde  Duke  of  Yorke, 
and  the  seyd  Erie  of  Salesbury,  and  the  Erie  of  Warrewyk, 
betwene  xj.  and  xij.  of  the  clocke  at  noon,  the  broke  into  the 
toun  in  thre  diverse  places  and  severelle  places  of  the  fore 
seyd  strete.  The  Kyng  beyng  then  in  the  place  of  Edmond 
Westby,  hunderdere  of  the  seyd  toun  of  Scynt  Albones, 
comaundeth  to  sle  alle  maner  men  of  lordes,  knygthtes,  end 
squyeres,  and  zemen  that  myght  be  taken  of  the  for  seyde 
Dukes  of  York.     Thys  don,  the  fore  seyde  Lord  ClyfFord 

27 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1455  kept  Strongly  the  barrers  that  the  seyde  Duke  of  York  myght 
MAY  2 1-22  not  in  ony  wise,  with  all  the  power  that  he  hadde,  entre  ne 
breke  into  the  toun.  The  Eric  of  Warrewyk,  knowyng  ther 
ofFe,  toke  and  gadered  his  men  to  gedere  and  ferosly  brake  in 
by  the  gardeyne  sydes  betuene  the  signe  of  the  Keye  and  the 
sygne  of  the  Chekkcre  in  Holwell  strete  ;  and  anoon  as  they 
wer  wyth  inne  the  toon,  sodeynly  the  blew  up  trumpettes,  and 
sette  a  cry  with  asshout  and  a  grete  voyce,  '  A  Warrewe  !  A 
Warrewyk  !  A  Warrewyk ! '  and  into  that  tyme  the  Duke  of 
York  mygth  nevere  have  entre  into  the  toun  ;  and  they  with 
strong  hond  kept  yt,  and  myghttyly  faught  to  gedere,  and 
anoon,  forth  with  after  the  brekyng  in,  they  sette  on  them 
manfully.  And  as  of  Lordes  of  name  were  slayn  the  Lord 
ClyfFord,  the  Duke  of  Somersete,  the  Erie  of  Northumber- 
lond.  Sir  Bartram  Entuwysselle,  Knynght ;  and  of  men  of 
courte,  Wyllyam  Zouch,  John  Batryaux,  RaafF  of  Bapthorp 
and  hys  sone,  Wyllyam  Corbyn,  squyers ;  William  Cotton, 
receyver  of  the  Ducherye  of  Lancastre ;  Gylbert  Starbrok, 
squyer  ;  Maimer  Pagentoun,  William  Botelore,  yomen ;  Rogere 
Mercroft,  the  Kynges  messanger  ;  Halyn,  the  Kynges  porter ; 
Raufe  Wyllerby  ;  and  xxv.  mo,  whych  her  names  be  not  zet- 
knowen.  And  of  hem  that  ben  slayn  ben  beryed  in  Sent 
Albonos  xlviij.  And  at  this  same  tyme  were  hurt  Lordes  of 
name — the  Kyng,  our  sovereyne  Lord,  in  the  neck  with  an 
arrowe  ;  the  Duke  of  Bukingham,  with  an  arrowe  in  the 
vysage  ;  the  Lord  of  Stafford  in  the  hond,  with  an  arowe ; 
the  Lord  of  Dorsette,  sore  hurt  that  he  myght  not  go,  but  he 
was  caryede  hom  in  a  cart ;  and  Wenlok,  Knyght,  in  lyke 
wyse  in  a  carte  sore  hurt;  and  other  diverse  knyghtes  and 
squyers  sore  hurt.  The  Erie  of  Wyldsshyre,  Thorpe,  and 
many  other  flede,  and  left  her  barneys  behynde  hem  cowardly, 
and  the  substaunce  of  the  Kynges  partye  were  dyspoyled  of 
hors  and  barneys.  This  done,  the  seyde  Lordes,  that  ys  to 
wote,  the  Duke  of  Yorke,  the  Erie  of  Salesbury,  the  Erie  of 
Warrewyke,  come  to  the  Kyng,  our  sovereyne  Lord,  and  on 
here  knees  be  soughte  hym  of  grace  and  foryevenesse  of  that 
they  hadde  doon  yn  his  presence,  and  be  sought  hym  of  his 
Heynesse  to  take  hem  as  hys  true  legemen,  seyng  that  they 
28 


HENRY  VI 

never  attendyde  [intended]  hurt  to  his  owne  persone,  and  ther  1455 
fore  [the]  Kyng  oure  sovereyn  Lord  toke  hem  to  grace,  and  may  2 1-22 
so  desyred  hem  to  cesse  there  peple,  and  that  there  shulde  no 
more  harme  be  doon ;  and  they  obeyde  hys  commaundement, 
and  lote  make  a  cry  on  the  Kynges  name  that  al  maner  of 
pepuU  shulde  cesse  and  not  so  hardy  to  stryke  ony  stoke  more 
after  the  proclamacyon  of  the  crye ;  and  so  cessed  the  seyde 
batayle,  Deo  gratias. 

And  on  the  morwe  the  Kyng  and  the  seyde  Duke,  with 
other  certeyn  Lordes,  come  in  to  the  Bysshops  of  London, 
and  there  kept  resydens  with  joye  and  solempnyte,  concludyng 
to  holde  the  parlement  at  London,  the  ix.  day  of  July  next 
comyng. 

284 
THE  BATTLE  OF  ST.  ALBANS  1 

THE   solecytouriz  and  causerys  of  the  feld  takyng  at  [may  22] 
Seynt  Albonys,  ther  namys  shewyn  her  aftyr  : — 

The  Lord  ClyiFord. 
RaufF  Percy. 
Thorpe. 
Tresham  and  Josep. 

The  inony  \enemys\  batayle  was  in  the  Market-place,  and 
the  Kynges  standard  was  pight,  the  Kynge  beynge  present 
with  these  Lordes,  whos  namys  folwe  : — 

The  Duke  of  Bokyngham. 


The  Duke  Somyrcete. 

The  Erie  Devynshire. 

The  Erie  of  Northeombirlond. 

The  Erie  Stafford. 

The  Erie  Dorcete. 

The  Lord  Clyfford. 

The  Lord  Ros. 


With  many  Knyghtes  and 
Squyeriz,  to  the  noumbre 
in  alle  that  faught  that  day 
iij""'-  [3000],  and  it  was  done 
on  Thursday  last  past  atwyx 
xj.  and  xij.  at  mydday. 


^  [From  MS.  Phillipps,  9735,  No.  278.] 

29 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


'455  The  namys  of  the  Lordes  that  were  on   the  othir  party 

[may  22]  shewyn  here  aftyr  : — 

The  Duke  of  York.  \ 

The  Erie  of  Salysbury.  With     many     otheriz,     to 

The  Erie  of  Warwyk.  ?  the  noumbre  of  v""'-  [5000] 

The  Lord  Clynton.  men. 

Sir  Robert  Ocle.  J 

And  Sir  Rober  Ocle  tok  vj''-  [600]  men  of  the  Marchis, 
and  tok  the  Market-place  or  ony  man  was  war  ;  than  the 
larum  belle  was  ronge,  and  every  man  yed  to  harneys,  for  at 
that  tyme  every  man  was  out  of  ther  aray,  and  they  joynid 
batayle  anon  ;  and  it  was  done  with  inne  di.  [i.e.  ond  half^ 
houre,  and  there  were  slayn  the  men,  whos  namys  folwyn  : — 

\  With  many  othir   men,   to 


The  Duke  Somyrcete. 
The  Erie  Northombirlond. 
The  Lx)rd  ClyfFord. 
The  Lord  Clynton. 
Sir  Bartyn  at  Wessyll. 
Babthorpe  and  hese  sone. 
Cotton,     Receyvour   of   the 

Duchye. 
Gryphet,  Ussher  of  Hall. 
Herry  Loweys. 
Wyllyam  Regmayde. 
John  Raulyns.  Asple. 
Harpour,  Yoman  of  the  Croune 


the  noumbre  of  iiij*"  [400], 
and  as  many  or  mo  hurt. 
The  Kynge  was  hurt  with 
an  harwe  in  the  necke.  The 
Duke  of  Bukkyngham  hurt, 
and  fled  in  to  the  Abbey. 
The  Erie  Devynshire  hurt. 
The  Erie  Stafford  and  Dor- 
cetyrgretly  hurt.  Fylongley 
faught  manly,  and  was  shet 
thorwe  the  armys  in  iij.  or 
iiij.  placys. 


The  Duke  of  Norfolke  come  a  day  aftyr  the  jurney  was 
done  with  vj"""-  [6000]  men. 

And  the  Erie  of  Oxinford  also. 

The  Erie  of  Shrewysbury, 

Lord  Crumwelle, 

And  Sir  Thomas  Stanley, 


I  with  x""-  [10,000]  men  were 


j  comynge. 


The  Kynge  with  all  the  Lordes  come  to  London  to  West- 
menstyr  on  Fryday,  at  vj.  of  clocke  at  aftyr  none,  and  London 
went  a  generalle  processyon  the  same  day. 

30 


HENRY  VI 

285 

JOHN  CRANE  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 

Unto  my  worshipfull  and  welbeloved  cosyn^  John  Paston^ 
be  this  lettre  delivred  in  hast. 

RIGHT  worshipfull  and  entierly  welbeloved  Sir,  I  re-  1455 
commaunde  me  unto  you,  desiring  hertly  to  here  of  may  25 
your  welfare.  Furthermore  lettyng  you  wete,  as  for 
such  tydinges  as  we  have  here,  such  \these\  thre  Lordes  be 
dede,  the  Duke  of  Somerset,  the  Erie  of  Northombrelonde, 
and  the  Lord  ClyfFord ;  and  as  for  any  other  men  of  name,  I 
knowe  noon  save  only  Quotton  of  Cammbrigeshire.  As  for 
any  other  Lordes,  many  of  theym  be  hurt ;  and  as  for  Fen- 
yngley,  he  lyveth  and  fareth  well,  as  fer  as  I  can  enquere,  &c. 

And  as  for  any  grete  multytude  of  people  that  ther  was, 
as  we  can  tell,  ther  was  at  most  slayn  [x]  ^  vj.  score.  And  as 
for  the  Lordes  that  were  with  the  Kyng,  they  and  her  men 
wer  pilled  and  spoyled  out  of  all  their  barneys  and  horses  ; 
and  as  for  what  rule  we  shall  have  yit  I  wote  nett,  save  only 
ther  be  made  newe  certayn  officers. 

My  Lord  of  Yorke,  Constabil  of  Englande  ;  my  Lord  of 
Warweke  is  made  captayn  of  Calyes  ;  my  Lord  Burgchier  is 
made  Treasorer  of  Englande;  and  as  yit  other  tydinges  have 
I  none. 

And  as  for  our  soverayn  Lorde,  thanked  be  God,  he  hathe 
no  grete  harme. 

No  more  to  you  at  this  tyme,  but  I  pray  you  send  this 
lettyr  to  my  Maistresse  Paston,  when  ye  have  sene  hit ;  preyng 
you  to  remembre  my  systir  Margrete  ageyne  the  tyme  that 
she  shal  be  made  nonne. 

Written  at  Lamehith,  on  Witsonday,  &c. 
By  your  cosyn, 

John  Crane. 

1  [From  Fenn,  i.  loo.]  This  letter  relates  to  the  first  battle  of  St.  Albans  and 
the  pnncipal  changes  which  took  place  immediately  after  it, 

^  In  the  original  letter,  the  x  is  struck  out,  and  vj.  placed  after  it  in  the  same 
line.— F. 

31 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

286 

ABSTRACT! 

Sir  John  Fastolf  to  John  Paston. 

14c  r  Thanks  him  for  his  pains  in  speeding  his  causes  at  London  this  term. 

MAY  28  Understands  the  Sheriff  of  Norfolk's  officers  are  at  Norwich,  and  now  the  writ 
of  attaint  is  sent  home  by  William  Barker,  which  Fastolf  sends  again  to  Paston 
that  he  may  consult  with  the  Sheriff  or  his  officers  what  to  do.  Both  William 
Barker  and  Seffrey  (sic)  Spyrlyng  are  now  at  Norwich,  and  one  of  them,  if 
need  be,  shall  wait  on  Paston. 
Castre,  28  May. 

*And  I  trust  to  God,  as  the  world  goeth  now,  the  said  attaint  shall  do 
right  well.' 

[The  postscript  of  this  letter  seems  to  refer  to  the  change  of  administration  after 
the  battle  of  St.  Albans.  As  to  the  action  of  attaint  sued  by  Fastolf,  see  Nos.  268 
and  276.] 

287 

WILLIAM  BARKER  TO  WILLIAM  WORCESTER* 

To  IVilliam  Worcester^  be  this  kttre  delyvered  in  hast. 

JUNE  ^^  IR,  I  recomaunde  me  to  yow  ;  and  as  for  tydyngs,  ye 
^^  may  enforme  myn  mayster,  there  is  non  but  that  he 
^^  hath  knowleche  of,  but  that  the  Kyng,  the  Quene,  and 
the  Prynce  remeven  to  Hertford  to  morwen  withought  faute  ; 
myn  Lord  York  to  the  Fryres  at  Ware  ;  myn  Lord  Warwyk 
to  Hunesdon  ;  the  Erie  Salysburye  to  Rye  ;  and  there  they 
shall  abyde  to  tyme  the  Parlement  be  gynne. 

The  Duk  Buk  is  come  inne,  and  sworn  that  he  shal  be 
rewled,  and  draw  the  lyne  with  theym  ;  and  ther  to  he  and 
his  brethern  ben  bounde  by  reconysaunce  in  notable  summes 
to  abyde  the  same. 

The  Erie  of  Wylts  sent  to  the  Lordes  from  a  place  of  his, 
called  Peterfeld,  a  lettre  desyring  to  know  if  he  shuld  come, 

'  [From  MS.  Phillipps,  9735,  No.  255.] 

'  [From  Fenn,  i.  104.]  This  letter  relates  entirely  to  occurrences  after  the  battle 
of  St.  Albans.  The  writer  here  only  signs  with  his  initials,  but  from  the  facsimile 
given  by  Fenn  of  his  '  W.  B.,'  he  can  be  clearly  identified  with  William  Barker. 

32 


HENRY  VI 

and  abyde  abought  the  Kynges  persone  as  he  dede  be  fore;     1455 
and  if  he  shuld  not,  than  that  they  wold  lycence  hym  to  goon     J^^^ 
in  to  Erland,  and  leve  there  upon  his  landes,  &c.,  and  before 
this  don,  the  Lordes  were  advyscd  to  have  made  hym  to  don 
as  the  Duk  Buk  hath  don,  and  no  more ;  but  what  that  wolle 
falle  now  therof,  no  man  can  telle  as  yet. 

-  The  Baron  of  Dudley  is  in  the  Towre ;  what  shal  come 
of  hym,  God  wote.  The  Erie  of  Dorsete  is  in  warde  with 
the  Erie  of  Warrwyk. 

Hit  was  seyd,  for  sothe,  that  Harpere  and  ij.  other  of  the 
Kynges  chamber  were  confedered  to  have  steked  the  Deuk 
York  in  the  Kynges  chamber ;  but  hit  was  not  so,  for  they 
have  clered  theym  therof. 

But  London  upon  the  same  tale  areysen,  and  every  man 
to  barneys  on  Corpus  Christi  even,  and  moche  adoo  there 
was. 

Syr  William  Oldhall  a  bydeth  no  lenger  in  Seyntwery  than 
the  Chef  Juge  come,  for  that  tyme  he  shal  goo  at  large,  and 
sewe  all  his  maters  himself,  &c. 

The  Baron  Dudley  hath  appeched  many  men  ;  but  what 
they  ben,  as  yet  we  can  not  wete.  Sir  Phillyp  Wentworth 
was  in  the  feld,  and  bare  the  Kynges  standard,  and  kest  hit 
down  and  fled.  Myn  Lord  Norffblk  seyth  he  shal  be  hanged 
therfore,  and  so  is  he  worthy.  He  is  in  Suffolk  now.  He 
der  not  come  abought  the  Kynge. 

Edmond  Stendale  was  with  Wenlok  there  in  the  feld,  and 
flFbwly  hurt. 

Fylongley  is  at  home  at  his  owen  place  with  his  wyf,  and 
shal  doe  ryght  weel ;  but  we  have  a  greet  losse  of  his  absence 
this  terme,  for  hit  wole  be  longe  er  he  come  this  terme,  I  am 
a  ferde. 

AUe  the  Lordes  that  dyed  at  the  jorney  arn  beryed  at 
Seynt  Albones. 

Other  thinges  ben  non  here,  but  ye  shal  sene  by  Thomas 
Scales  lettre  the  rewle  of  the  Frenshemen,  &c. 

God  spede  us  weel  in  our  matres  this  terme,  I  praye  to 
God,  who  have  yow  in  his  kepyng,  &c. 

W.  B. 

VOL.  III. C  33 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

288 

THE  DUCHESS  OF  NORFOLK  TO  JOHN  PASTON » 

I'd  oure  right  trusti  and  welbelovid  John  Paston,  Esquier. 

^he  Duchesse  of  Norfolk. 

^455  I  )  IGHT  trusti  and  welbelovid,  we  grete  you  hertili  weel. 
JUNE  8  r^  And  for  as  muche  as  it  is  thought  right  necessarie  for 
^  ^  divers  causes  that  my  Lord  have  at  this  tyme  in  the 
Parlement  suche  persones  as  longe  unto  him,  and  be  of  his 
menyall  servaunts,  wherin  we  conceyve  your  good  will  and 
diligence  shal  be  right  expedient,  we  hertili  desire  and  pray 
you  that  at  the  contemplacion  of  thise  oure  lettres,  as  our 
special  trust  is  in  you,  ye  wil  geve  and  applie  your  voice  unto 
our  right  welbelovid  cosin  and  servaunts,  John  Howard  and 
Syr  Roger  Chambirlayn,  to  be  Knyghts  of  the  shire,  exorting 
all  suche  othir  as  be  your  wisdom  shal  now  be  behovefuU,  to 
the  good  exployte  and  conclusion  of  the  same. 

And  in  your  faithful  attendaunce  and  trewe  devoyre  in 
this  partie,  ye  shal  do  unto  my  Lord  and  us  a  singlere  pleasir, 
and  cause  us  herafter  to  thank  you  therfore,  as  ye  shal  holde 
you  right  weel  content  and  agreid,  with  the  grace  of  God,  who 
have  you  ever  in  his  keping. 

Wreten  in  Framlyngham  Castel,  the  viij.  day  of  June. 

289 

ABSTRACT* 

Sir  John  Fastolf  to  John  Paston. 

JUNE  1 1  Thanks  him  for  his  letter  sent  from  London.     Bokkyng  writes  that  a  writ 

of  ravishment  de  garde  is  taken,  and  Wentworth's  counsel  *  call  sore  upon  the 
action  of  200  marks  in  the  Common  Pleas,  and  John  Andreus  is  ready  there, 

*  [From  Fenn,  i.  96.]     From  the  time  of  year  at  which  it  was  written,  this  letter 
must  refer  to  the  parliamentary  election  of  1455. 
'  [From  MS.  Phillipps,  9735,  No.  269.] 

34 


HENRY  VI 

and  writs  of  capias  ayenst  John  Porter  as  well  as  ayenst  Sir  Thomas.'     Begs      I4CC 
him  to  hasten  to  London,  as  there  is  great  labour  against  our  intent.     Went-    my^^  1 1 
worth  has  got  Debenham,  RadclyfF,  and  others  in  my  Lord's  house  against  us. 
Would  rather  he  were  at  London  two  days  too  early  than  too  late ;  for  he 
trusts  no  man's  wit  so  much  as  Paston's. 
Castre,  1 1  June. 

[The  references  in  this  letter  to  the  affair  of  the  wardship,  and  to  the  actions 
against  John  Porter  and  Sir  Thomas  Howes,  all  show  that  it  belongs  to  the  year 
»4S50 


SIR  JOHN  FASTOLF  TO  JOHN  PASTONi 

I455(?) 

J.  Fastolf. 

More  overe,  cosyn,  I   pray  yow  concyder  .  .  .  that  yfF 

the  plees  for  the  mater  ye  [wit  off]  may  be  engroced  be  tyme 

or  the  Courtys  remefe,  hyt  may  stand  yn  more  suertee ;  and 

ellys  hyt  wille  stand  yn  a  jubardye  as  to  alle  that  hathe  be 

spended  and  doon  heere  before.     And  therfor,  savyng  your 

better  avice,  I  had  lever  ye  were  at  London  a  weke  the  rather 

and  tymelyer  then  a  weke  to  late.     I  pray  yow  doth  somwhate 

aftyr  my  councell  as  I  wolle  do  by  youres. 

^  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  is  only  the  mutilated  postscript  of  a  letter 
without  any  address,  though  it  was  doubtless  directed  to  John  Paston.  The  anxiety 
expressed  that  Paston  should  be  in  London  in  good  time  corresponds  so  closely  with 
the  contents  of  the  preceding  letter  that  we  may  refer  this  to  the  same  period, 
especially  as  both  the  preceding  letter  and  this  are  in  the  handwriting  of  William 
Worcester.  The  matter,  which  was  to  be  engrossed  before  the  Courts  removed,  had 
reference  probably  to  the  wardship  of  Thomas  Fastolf  of  Cowhawe. — See  No.  292 
following. 


35 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 
■^  291 

WILLIAM  PRYCE  TO  JOHN  PASTON » 

l^he  copy  of  a  Letter  sent  to  John  Paston  be  the  Undir- 
Shreve  ^  of  Norff. 

1455      I  *)  YGHT  worchepfull  Sir,  I  recomaund  me  on  to  you,  &c. 
JUNE  19     \rC       And,  Sir,  as  for  the  eleccion  of  the  Knyghts  of  the 
'*•  shire  here  in  NorfFolk,  in  good  feyth  her  hath  ben 

moch  to  do  ;  nevir  the  latyr,  to  lete  yow  have  knowlech  of 
the  demenyng,  my  Master  Berney,  my  Master  Grey  and  ye 
had  grettyst  voyse,  and  I  purpose  me,  as  I  woll  answer  God, 
to  retorne  the  dieu  eleccion,  that  is  aftir  the  sufficiente,  yow 
and  Mastir  Grey  ;  nevir  the  latyr  I  have  a  master. 

Wretyn  at  Hederset,  the  Thursday  next  befor  Midsomer. 
By  Will'm  Pryce. 


292 

ABSTRACTS 

JUNE  21  Writ  to  the  Treasurer  and  Barons  of  the  Exchequer  in  pursuance  of  patent, 

1 2th  December  last,  granting  to  John  Bokking  and  William  Worcester  the 
wardship,  etc.,  of  the  heir  of  John  Fastolf  of  Cowghawe. 

Above  in  WtH'tam   Worcester's  hand: — '  Bre.  ad  allocand.  Vicecomitem  de 
proficuis  terr.  Thomae  Fastolf  in  custodia  Johannis  Bokkyng.' 
Inrolled,  Trin.,  33  Hen.  vi.,  rot.  3. 

[Memoranda  below  in  William  Worcester's  hand  as  to  certain  statements  of  Hugh 
Fenn  about  the  form  of  the  writ  of  livery  directed  to  the  Sheriff.] 


*  [From  Fenn,  iii.  432.]  The  evidence  of  date  in  this  letter  is  the  same  as  in 
No.  288.  Notwithstanding  Pryce's  efforts,  not  one  of  the  persons  named  in  this  letter 
was  actually  elected,  the  knights  returned  for  Norfolk  in  1455  being  the  Duke  of 
Norfolk's  nominees.  Sir  Roger  Chamberlain  and  John  Howard. — See  Nos.  294  and 
295  following. 

•  SAieve  m  Fenn  is  almost  certainly  a  misreading. 
'  [From  MS.  Phillipps,  9735,  No.  261.] 

36 


HENRY   VI 
293 

SIR  JOHN  FASTOLF  TO  JOHN  PASTON 1 

To  my  ryght  trusty  cosyn^  John  Pas  ton. 

WORSHYPFULL  Sir  and  cosyn,  I  commaund  me  to  1455 
yow.  And  lyke  yow  wete  that  accordyng  to  your  june  22 
desyre  I  sende  John  Russe  to  yow  to  hafe  your 
informacion  of  such  materis  as  shall  be  thought  exspedient  to 
be  laboured  yn  your  absence  for  the  mater  of  Wentworth,  and 
hafe  geve  hym  in  commaundment  to  entend  it  in  all  that  he 
can  or  may.  And,  Cosyn,  he  hath  a  lettre  of  credence  to  the 
baylly  of  Dedham  because  of  doubt  of  syght  of  the  baylly  ys 
lettre  ther  for  disclosyng,  &c.,  to  do  after  the  wrytyng  of 
T.  Denys.  And  y  sende  yow  ij.  lettres  com  to  me  from 
London  that  maketh  mencyon  of  grete  besynesse  ayenst  us, 
and  an  accion  toke  ayenst  yow,  Howys,  Bokkyng,  &c.,  that 
most  nedys  be  tendred ;  in  case  an  essoyn  ^  can  be  take,  so 
moche  the  better.  And  therfor,  cosyn,  at  reverence  of  God, 
dispose  yow  to  London  yn  all  the  haste  that  ye  can.  For  the 
atthacment  can  not  be  tille  ye  com.  And  on  partie  adverse 
besyeth  hem  sore  in  your  absence,  fades  hominis  fades  leonis. 
And  I  have  worde  yn  a  nothere  lettre  that  my  Lord  Chaun- 
cellor  ys  yn  the  lyke  wyse  disposed  yn  owre  one  syde,  and 
therfor  that  ye  kepe  hym  ynne  to  helpe  bere  the  favour  of 
thys  mater  yn  all  wyse ;  And  Byngham  Justys  ys  full  well 
disposed  also.  Dyvers  new  processe  ys  ayenst  Sir  Thomas. 
And  all  othere  materis  I  commyt  to  your  discrecion ;  yf  nede 
be,  I  com  thedre  my  sylf.  Y  pray  God  kepe  yow.  Wryt 
hastly  uppon  Sonday  before  Seynt  John  Baptiste.  —  Your 
cosyn,  J.  Fastolf. 

Item,  after  that  I  have  word  from  yow,  so  wolle  I   be 

*  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  171.]    There  can  be  no  reasonable  doubt  that  this  letter  is 
of  the  same  date  as  Nos.  289  and  290,  i.e.  of  the  year  1455. 

*  An  excuse  allowed  for  not  appearing  in  Court. 

37 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

'455    gouverned,   and   com   to   London    yfF  ye   sende   me   worde, 
JUNE  22  and  that  I  hafe  word  from  yow  yf  nede  be  bytyme  from 
London. 


294 
JOHN  JENNEY  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  my  wurshipfull  maister^  John  Paston^  Esquier. 

JUNE  *4-   "^  ^I   Maister  Paston,  I  recomaunde  me  to  you.      And 
^1       wher  ye  shulde  be  enformed  that  I  shulde  sey  to 
^  Howard^   that   ye   labored    to    be  Knyght   of  the 

shire,  I  seid  never  soo  to  hym.  I  tolde  my  Lord  of  NorfFolk 
atte  London  that  I  labored  diverse  men  for  Sir  Roger  Chaum- 
berleyn,  and  they  seid  to  me  they  woldc  have  hym,  but  not 
Howard,  in  asmeche  as  he  hadde  no  lyvelode  in  the  shire,  nor 
conversement  [i.e.  acquaintance  .?] ;  and  I  asked  them  horn 
they  wolde  have,  and  they  seid  they  wolde  have  you,  and  thus 
I  tolde  hym.  And  he  seid  on  avysely,  as  he  kan  doo  full  well, 
I  myght  not  sey  ye  labored  thcr,  for  I  herde  never  sey  ye 
labored  therfor,  be  the  feithe  I  vowe  to  God. 

As  for  this  writ  of  the  Parlement  of  Norwich,  I  thanke 
you  that  ye  will  labour  ther  in ;  as  for  my  frendys  ther,  I 
truste  right  well  all  the  aldermen,  except  Broun'  and  sech 
as  be  in  his  dawnger.*  I  prey  you  spekith  to  Walter  Jeffrey* 
and  Herry  Wilton,''  and  maketh  them  to  labour  to  your  entent. 
I  prey  you  that  yf  ye  thenke  that  it  wull  not  be,  that  it  like 
you  that  to  sey  that  ye  meve  it  of  your  self,  and  not  be  my 

*  [From  Fenn,  iii.  240.]  The  parliamentary  election  to  which  this  letter  refers  is 
evidently  the  same  as  in  Nos.  288  and  291.  The  election  of  Howard  and  Chamber- 
lain actually  took  place  on  the  23rd  June,  the  day  before  this  letter  was  written,  as  I 
find  by  the  original  returns  in  the  Record  OHice. 

'  John  Howard,  the  Duke  of  Norfolk's  cousin.  He  was  afterwards  created  Duke 
of  Norfolk  himself  by  Richard  iii.,  in  whose  cause  he  fell  fighting  at  the  battle  of 
Bos  worth. 

'  Richard  Brown  was  Mayor  of  Norwich  in  1454.,  and  member  for  that  city  In 
1460.— F. 

*  This  means  in  his  debt,  and  therefore  under  his  influence. — F. 

'  Walter  Jeffrey  was  Under-SherifF  of  Norwich  in  1451,  1452,  and  1459. — ^• 

*  Henry  Wilton  was  returned  with  John  Jcnncy  in  1477. — F. 

38 


HENRY  VI 

desire.     Sum  men  holde  it  right  straunge  to  be  in  this  Parle-     1455 
ment,  and  me  thcnketh  they  be  wyse  men  that  soo  doo.  J^ne  24 

Wreten  atte  Intewode,^  on  Sceint  John  day,  in  hast. 
Your  servaunt, 

John  Jenney. 

295 

JOHN  JENNEY  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 

^0  my  wurshipfull  maistery  John  Pastorty  Squier. 

MI  wurshipfull  maister,  I  recomaunde  me  to  you;  and  I  june  25 
thanke  you  that  it  plesith  you  to  take  seche  labour 
for  me  as  ye  doo.  My  servaunt  tolde  me  ye  desired 
to  knowe  what  my  Lord  of  NorfFolk  seid  to  me  whan  I  spake 
of  you ;  and  he  seid  in  asmeche  as  Howard  ^  myght  not  be,  he 
wolde  write  a  lettre  to  the  Under-Shreve  that  the  shire  shulde 
have  fre  eleccion,  soo  that  Sir  Thomas  Todenham  wer  not, 
nor  none  that  was  toward  the  Due  of  Suffolk;  he  seid  he 
knewe  ye  wer  never  to  hym  ward.  Ye  may^  sende  to  the 
Under-Shreve,  and  see  my  Lord  lettre.  Howard  was  as 
wode  as  a  wilde  bullok  ;  God  sende  hym  seche  wurshipp  as 
he  deservith.  It  is  a  evill  precedent  for  the  shire  that  a 
straunge  man  shulde  be  chosyn,  and  no  wurshipp  to  my 
Lord  off  Yorke,  nor  to  my  Lord  of  NorfFolk  to  write  for 
hym;  for  yf  the  jentilmen  of  the  shire  will  suffre  sech  in- 
convenyens,  in  good  feithe,  the  shire  shall  not  be  called  of 
seche  wurshipp  as  it  hathe  be. 

Wreten  atte  Intewode,  this  Wednesday  next  after  Sceint 
John,  in  hast.  Your  servaunt, 

John  Jenney. 

1  This  estate  came  to  Jenney  by  his  marriage  with  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Thomas 
Wetherby,  a  rich  alderman  of  Nonvich,  who,  after  having  twice  served  as  Mayor, 
quarrelled  with  the  city  about  the  election  of  his  successor  in  that  office  in  J433,  and 
instigated  various  prosecutions  against  them.     He  died  in  1445. 

*  [From  Fenn,  iii.  380.]  This  letter  clearly  refers  to  the  same  matters  as  the  pre- 
ceding, and  was  written  the  day  after. 

»  See  p.  38,  Note  2. 

*  The  modem  version  in  Fenn  reads,  *  The  Mayor  sent  to  the  Undcr-SherifF,  and 
saw  my  Lord's  letter.' 

39 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

296 

ALICE  CRANE  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  1 

jTd?  my  cosyn^  Margeret  Paston^  be  this  letter  delycred. 

About  X~J  YGHT  worshipfull  cosyn,  I  recomaund  me  unto  you, 
'455(0  r\  desyryng  to  here  of  youre  welfare;  and  if  it  like  you 
JUNE  29    -■-  %.     ^Q  jjgj.  q£  j^y.  ^gifar^  at  the  makyng  of  this  letter  I 

was  in  good  hele,  loved  be  God.  The  cause  of  my  wrytyng 
to  you  at  this  tyme  is  this,  praying  you  to  send  me  word  of 
youre  welfare,  and  how  ye  do  of  youre  seknesse,  and  if  the 
medycyn  do  you  ony  good  that  I  send  you  wrytyng  of  last ; 
thankyng  you  of  the  grete  frenship  that  ye  have  do  to  my 
moder  with  all  my  hert. 

Also  I  pray  you  that  ye  wyll  be  good  meyn  to  my  cosyn 
youre  husbond,  that  he  wyll  se  that  my  fader  be  well  ruleyd  in 
his  lyvelode  for  his  worship  and  his  profett. 

Also  prayng  you  to  hold  me  exschusyd  that  I  have  wryten 
no  ofter  to  you,  for,  in  good  feth,  I  had  no  leysir;  for  my 
Lady  hath  be  seke  at  London,  ner  hand  this  quarter  of  this 
yere,  and  that  hath  be  grete  hevinesse  to  me;  but  now,  blesyd 
be  God,  she  is  amendyd  and  is  in  the  centre  agayne. 

Also  thankyng  you  of  the  grete  chere  that  I  had  of  you 
when  I  was  with  you  laste  with  all  my  herte,  prayng  you  of 
good  contenuanse,  for  I  had  never  gretter  nede  than  I  have  now, 
and  if  I  had  leyser  and  space,  I  wolde  write  to  you  the  cause. 

No  more  at  this  tyme,  but  the  Holy  Trenite  have  you  in 
his  kepyng. 

Wryten  at  Wyndesore,  the  xxix.  day  of  June, 
By  youre  pore  bedc  oman  and  cosyn, 

Alice  Crane. 

Also,  cosyn,  I  pray  you  to  sende  me  sum  Norfoke  thredc 
to  do  a  boute  my  nekke  to  ryde  with. 

*  [From  Fenn,  iii.  146.]  John  Crane  of  Woodnorton,  whom  we  suppose  to  have 
been  the  writer  of  Letters  121  and  285,  had  a  wife  of  the  name  of  Alice,  who  was 
apparently  a  widow  in  1457,  when  she  presented  to  the  living  of  Woodnorton  {set 
Blomefield,  iv.  313).  But  the  writer  of  this  was  more  probably  a  daughter,  serving  in 
the  household  of  a  lady  of  rank  according  to  the  custom  of  the  times.  If  so,  the  date 
is  before  John  Crane's  death,  which  must  have  happened  between  1455  and  1457. 


HENRY  VI 

297 

WILLIAM  WORCESTER  TO  JOHN  PASTONi 
To  my  Maisier  Paston. 

PLEASE  your  gode  maistership  to  wete,  that  as  yersten-  1455 
day  came  lettres  from  London  that  the  Parson  ^  most  J^^-^  7 
nedys  up  to  London  to  safe  the  next  amerciement; 
and  so  ys  forth  to  appiere,  yfF  he  nedys  most,  xv.  Johannis,^ 
as  ye  shall  see  by  Barkers  lettre,  and  shall  be  to  morne  at 
London,  and  with  Goddes  grace  he  shall  be  releved  by  the 
meene  of  the  Parlement ;  by  Sonday  yee  shall  hafe  weetyng. 

As  for  my  maister,*  he  departyth  not  to  London  tille  the 
next  weke  after  thys,  and  [i.e.  if)  he  ryde. 

As  for  tydyngs  be  none  couthe  [i.e.  publicly  known],  but 
Ponyngs  ^  ys  qwyt  and  delyvered  of  all  tresons ;  and  Sir 
William  Oldhale  ys  process  yn  the  Kyngs  Bynche  reversed ; 
and  the  Priest  that  acoused  Lordz  Cromewell,®  Grey,^  and  my 

^  [From  Fenn,  iil.  128.]  At  the  date  of  this  letter,  William  Worcester  and  his 
master,  Sir  John  Fastolf,  were  both  at  Caister,  though  the  latter  was  thinking  of 
going  up  to  London.  This,  being  in  July,  cannot  have  been  before  1455.  Fenn 
supposes  the  pardon  to  Poynings  to  have  been  on  account  of  his  participation  in 
Cade's  rebellion,  and  accordingly  dates  this  letter  'about  145 1.'  But  Poynings  was 
accused  of  raising  disturbances  in  1453  and  1454.  The  reversal  of  Sir  William 
Oldhall's  outlawry  was  in  1455 ;  for  we  have  seen  in  No.  287  that  he  was  obliged  to 
remain  in  sanctuary  for  some  little  time  after  the  battle  of  St.  Albans.  It  appear?  by 
an  impeximus  on  Patent  Roll,  34  Hen.  vi.,  m.  16,  that  he  presented  a  petition  to  the 
King  in  Parliament  on  the  9th  July,  33  Hen.  vi.  (1455),  setting  forth  how  he  had 
served  the  King  in  France,  and  yet  had  been  pronounced  a  traitor  by  the  Parliament 
of  Reading  in  31  Hen.  vi.,  but  that  his  outlawry  had  been  reversed  in  the  King'« 
Bench. 

*  Thomas  Howes. 

3  ^indena  Johannis,  or  on  the  quinzaine  of  St.  John,  ij.  8th  July,  the  15th  day 
from  St.  John  the  Baptist's  day. 

*  Sir  John  Fastolt. 

*  Robert  Poynings. —  See  vol.  ii.  p.  154,  Note  3. 

^  Ralph,  Lord  Cromwell.  He  was  accused  of  treason  by  a  priest  named  Robert 
Colynson. — See  Nicolas's  Privy  Council  Proceedings,  vi.  198. 

^  Probably  Edmund,  Lord  Grey  of  Ruthin  j  but  there  were  at  this  time  also  a 
Lord  Grey  of  Codnor  and  a  Lord  Grey  of  Wilton. 

41 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1455  maister  woUe  confesse  who  caused  hym  to  do  it,  so  that  he 
JULY  7    may  have  hys  lyve,  &c. 

Assone  as  ye  goodly  may  to  see  my  maister,  it  shall  be  to 
hym  a  singuler  pleasir.  Sir,  a  baylly  of  my  maister  ys  yn 
Drayton.  John  Eimond  brought  a  lettre  to  yow,  and  he  sent 
me  wetyng  he  was  shent  [aba5hed'\  uppon  som  mater,  as  he 
supposyth,  conteyned  yn  the  lettre.  Y  pray  you  yn  ryght  be 
hys  gode  maister,  and  that  y  may  wete  the  cause,  for  y  doubt 
he  shall  and  most  obbey,  yffhe  hath  offended. 

At  Castr,  the  noneday,^  vij.  day  Juliet. 

Your,  W.  WORCESTRE. 

On  the  top  of  this  letter^  in  a  different  hand^  is  written : — 

Prove  ontrouthe  in  the  Undir-Sherif,  or  that  he  dede  othir  wise  thanne 
your  counsell  avysid  hym,  and  Paston  shall  demene  hym  accordyng. 


298 
SIR  J.  FASTOLF  TO  JOHN  PASTON « 

To  the  worshypfull  and  my  ryght  welle  belovyd  cosyn^ 
John  Paston. 

JULY  10  XX  TORSHYPFULL   and   ryghte   welbelovyd    cosyn,    I 

^^       comaund   me    to   you.     Please    you   to  wete  that 

the  pryour  and  convent  of  Norwych  have  wyth 

holden    certeyn   rent   for    londes    that    they    holden    of    me 

wythynne    my  maner   of   Harlyston,   and    the   ij.   tapers   of 

wax  of  ij/^.  wyghte  by  the  space  of  xviij.  yeers  that  mountyth 

xxj;.  valued  in  money;  and  the  lordes  of 

the  seyd  maner  beying  before  me,  and  also  y  yn  my  tyme 
have  be  seisid  and  possessed  of  the  sayd  rent.  Praying  you 
to  specie  wyth  the  pryour,  recomaundyng  me  unto  hym,  and 

»  The  day  of  the  Nones.— F. 

•  [From  a  modem  copy  by  Gough  in  Bodl.  Library'.]  This  letter  was  evidently 
written  in  the  year  1455,3$  appears  by  the  reference  to  the  Parliament  and  to  the 
intended  journey  of  Sir  John  Fastolf  up  to  London  (see  No.  a97). 

4'i 


HENRY  VI 

that  ye  lyke  to  meave  hym  to  make  me  payment,  as  hys  1455 
dewtee  ys,  so  as  y  have  no  cause  to  stirre  further,  and  to  doo  July  10 
as  justice  requyryth.  He  holdyth  xxx.  acres  land  or  more  by 
the  sayd  rent,  and  yhyt  ought  to  pay  me  othyr  rents  more  by 
myne  evidents  of  more  ade.  Y  pray  you,  cosyn,  that  y  may 
speke  wyth  you  or  y  ryde,  and  that  on  Thrysday  by  the 
farthyst,  and  then  y  shall  tell  you  tydyngs  off  the  Parlement, 
and  that  ye  fayle  not,  as  my  trus  ys  yn  you.  Y  pray  God 
have  you  yn  Hys  governance. 

Wreten  at  Castre,  the  x.  day  of  Julie. 
Your  cosyn, 

John  Fastolfe. 


HENRY  WINDSOR  TO  BOKKYNG  AND 
WORCESTER  1 

Unto  my  moost  faitfull  hrethern^  John  Bokkyng  and 
William  WorcestrCy  and  to  eyther  of  theym. 

WORSHIPFULL  Sir,  and  my  most  hertely  and  best  july  19 
be  loved  brother,  I  recommaund  me  unto  you  in 
more  loly  wise  than  I  can  other  thenk  or  write  ; 
and  with  al  my  service  and  trewe  herte  thank  you  of  your 
gentill  lettres,  full  brotherly  written  unto  me  at  mony  tymes 
of  old,  and  especiall  of  late  tyme  passed.  And  trwly,  brother, 
I  thank  Almyghty  God  of  your  welfare,  of  the  which  the 
berer  of  this  my  pour  lettre  certified  me  of,  &c. 

And,  Sir,  as  touchyng  al  maner  of  newe  tithinges,  I  knoo 
well  ye  are  averous;  truly  the  day  of  makyng  of  this  letter, 
ther  were  nonn  newe,  but  suche  I  herd  of,  ye  shalbe  served 
with  all. 

As  for  the  first,  the  Kyng  our  souverain  Lord,  and  all  his 
trwe   Lordes  stand  in  hele  of  there  bodies,  but  not  all  at 


1  [From  Fenn,  i.  108.]  As  this  letter  refers  to  the  disputes  which  arose  after  the 
battle  of  St.  Albans  as  to  who  should  bear  the  blame  of  that  occurrence,  the  date  is 
certain. 

43 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1455  hertes  ees  as  we.  Amonges  other  mervell,  ij.  dayes  afore  the 
JULY  19  writyng  of  this  letter,  there  was  langage  betwene  my  Lordes 
of  Warrewikke  and  Cromwell  afore  the  Kyng,  in  somuch 
as  the  Lord  Cromwell  wold  have  excused  hym  self  of  all  the 
steryng  or  moevyng  of  the  male  journey  of  Seynt  Albones; 
of  the  whiche  excuse  makyng,  my  Lord  Warrewikke  had 
knolege,  and  in  hast  wasse  with  the  Kyng,  and  sware  by  his 
othe  that  the  Lord  Cromwell  said  not  trouth,  but  that  he  was 
begynner  of  all  that  journey  at  Seynt  Albones;  and  so  be- 
twene my  said  ij.  Lords  of  Warrewikke  and  Cromwell  ther  is 
at  this  day  grete  grugyng,  in  somoch  as  the  Erie  of  Shroues- 
bury  hath  loged  hym  at  the  hospitall  of  Seynt  James,  beside 
the  Mewes,  be  the  Lord  Cromwells  desire,  for  his  sauf  gard. 

And  also  all  my  Lord  of  Warrewikke  men,  my  Lord  of 
York  men,  and  also  my  Lord  of  Salesbury  men  goo  with 
harnes,  and  in  harnes  with  Strang  wepons,  and  have  stuffed 
their  Lordes  barges  full  of  wepon  dayly  unto  Westminster. 
And  the  day  of  makyng  of  this  letter,  ther  was  a  pro- 
clamacion  made  in  the  Chauncerie,  on  the  Kyngs  behalf, 
that  noman  shuld  nether  here  wepon,  ner  were  harnes  de- 
fensible, &c. 

Also,  the  day  afore  the  makyng  of  this  letter,  ther  passed 
a  bill^  both  by  the  Kyng,  Lords,  and  Comens,  puttyng 
Thorp,  Josep,  and  my  Lord  of  Somerset  in  all  the  defaute; 
be  the  which  bill  all  maner  of  actions  that  shuld  growe  to  any 
person  or  persones  for  any  offenses  at  that  journey  doon,  in 
any  maner  of  wise  shuld  be  extynt  and  voide,  affermyng  all 
thing  doon  there  well  doon,  and  nothing  doon  there  never 
after  this  tyme  to  be  spoken  of;  to  the  which  bill  mony  a 
man  groged  full  sore  nowe  it  is  passed. 

And  if  I  myght  be  recommaunded  unto  my  speciall 
maister  and  youres,  with  all  loliness  and  trewe  service  I 
beseech  you  hertely  as  I  can. 

And  also  to  my  brethern  Th.  Upton,^  Lodowlck  of  Pole, 
William  Lynd  Calyn  [Lincoln  .?],  and  John  Merchall. 

>  See  RoUi  of  Pari.  v.  280. 

*  Upon  in  Fcnn,  but  Upton  in  the  modem  version  on  the  opposite  side  of  the 
page. 

44 


HENRY  VI 

No  more,  but  our  Lorde  have  you  both  in  his  perpetuell    1455 
Icepyng.  ju^-v  ^9 

Writen  at  London,  on  Seynt  Margarete  Even/  in  hast ; 
and  after  this  is  rede  and  understonden,  I  pray  you  bren  or 
brekc  it,  for  I  am  loth  to  write  any  thing  of  any  Lord.  But 
I  moost  ncds ;  ther  is  no  thing  elles  to  write.     Amen. 

Your  awn, 

H.  Wyndesore. 


300 
JAMES  GLOYS  TO  JOHN  PASTON2 

To  tl^  right  wurchepfull  Sir^  ana  my  goode  mayster^  my  Mayster 
John  Pastony  he  this  delivered. 

REVERENT  and  right  wurchepfull  Sir,  and  my  gode  july  25 
mayster,  I  recomaund  me  to  you,  prayng  you  to  wete 
that  ther  is  reysed  a  slandrows  noyse  in  this  countre 
up  on  my  Mayster  Yelverton  and  you  and  my  Mayster 
Alyngton,  which  I  suppose  is  do  to  bryng  you  ought  of  the 
conceyte  of  the  pepyll,  for  at  this  day  ye  stand  gretly  in  the 
countreys  conceyte.  It  is  seyde  be  Heydon  and  his  disciples 
that  my  Mayster  Yelverton  and  ye  and  my  Mayster  Alyng- 
ton shuld  have  doo  oon  Sir  John  Tartyssale,  parson  of  the 
Estchurche^  of  Warham  and  chapelcyn  to  the  priour*  of 
Walsyngham,  to  put  in  to  the  Parlement,  a  bille  of  divers 
tresons  don  be  my  Lord  of  Norwich,®  Sir  Thomas  Tudenham, 

*  St.  Margaret's  day  is  the  20th  July,  the  eve  the  19th. 

*  [From  Fenn,  iv.  32.]  This  letter  is  attributed  by  Fenn  to  the  year  14.61,  but 
that  date  is  certainly  inaccurate,  as  it  was  answered  by  John  Paston  at  Norwich  the 
very  day  it  was  written,  whereas  in  July  1461  Paston  was  in  London.  Moreover,  it 
certainly  could  not  have  been  after  146 1,  as  Sir  Thomas  Tuddenham  was  beheaded  in 
February  of  the  following  year.  It  must  therefore  belong  to  the  reign  of  Henry  vi. } 
and  considering  the  time  of  the  year,  1455  is  the  only  date  at  which  it  is  at  all  likely 
that  any  one  would  have  ventured  to  attempt  the  impeachment  of  Tuddenham  and 
Heydon  in  Parliament,  or  could  have  been  plausibly  accused  of  such  a  design  against 
persons  of  »o  much  induence. 

3  There  were  three  churches  in  the  parish  of  Warham. 

*  Thomas  Hunt.  *  Walter  Lyhert,  Bishop  of  Norwich. 

45 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

^455  and  John  Heydon,  and  ye  shuld  have  set  to  youf  scales  ;  and 
JULY  25  \f  t}^^^  Heydon  had  be  vj.  howrs  fro  the  Parlement  lenger 
than  he  was,  ther  had  be  granted  an  oyer  determiner  to  have 
enquer  of  hem,  &c.  This  was  told  yesterday  in  right  wur- 
chepfuU  audience,  and  a  mong  the  thrifties  men  of  this  countre  ; 
and  thei  seyd  right  shrewedly,  for  my  lord  of  Norwich  hath  so 
flatered  the  lay  pepill  as  he  hath  redyn  a  bought  his  visitacion 
that  he  hath  thers  herts.  Wherfor,  and  it  plese  you  to  lete 
me  have  knowlech  what  ye  wuld  I  shuld  sey  to  it,  wher  as  I 
her  any  such  langage,  I  wull  do  my  parte,  and  have  do  hed 
toward  as  1  have  thought  in  my  conceytes  best,  &c.  And  if 
ther  be  any  other  servyce  that  ye  wull  comaund  me,  I  am  and 
wull  be  redy  at  yowr  comaundment  with  the  grace  of  God, 
how  [who]  ever  have  you  in  his  blyssed  kepyng. 
Wretyn  at  Wighton  in  hast,  on  Sent  James  day. 

Be  your  servaunte,  James  Glovs.^ 


301 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  JAMES  GLOYS* 
To  Sir  James  Gloys. 

THER  be  dyvers  thynges  in  your  letter  sent  to  me ;  one 
that  a  s]aw[n]derus  noyse  shuld  renne  ageyns  Yel- 
verton,  Alygton  and  me,  to  brynge  us  owte  of  the 
conceytes  of  the  puple  be  Heydon  and  his  dyscyplis,  of  a  bill 
that  shuld  have  do  put  uppe  in  to  the  Parlement  ageyns  my 
Lord  of  Norwich  and  odir.  I  lete  yow  wete  this  is  the  furst 
day  that  I  herd  of  any  seche,  but  I  wold  wete  the  namys  of 
hem  that  utter  this  langage  and  the  mater  of  the  bill.  As  for 
my  Lord  of  Norwych,  I  suppose  ye  know  I  have  not  usid  to 
meddel  with  Lordes  maters  meche  forther  than  me  nedith ; 
and  as  for  Sir  Thomas  Todynham,  he  gaff  me  no  cawse  of  late 

'  He  was  a  priest,  and  a  dependant  of  the  Pastons. 

*  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter,  which  is  printed  from  a  draft  in  John 
Paston's  hand,  was  written  in  answer  to  the  preceding,  to  which  the  rtader  is  referred 
for  the  evidence  of  its  date. 

46 


HENRY  VI 

tyme  to  labor  ageyns  hym,  and  also  of  seche  mater  I  know  1455 
non  defFaut  in  hym.  And  as  for  Heydon,  when  I  putte  a  bill  July  25 
ageyns  hym  I  suppose  he  shall  no  cause  have,  ne  his  discyplis 
nother,  to  avante  of  so  short  a  remedy  ther  of,  as  ye  wrygth 
they  sey  now.  As  for  that  ye  desyr  that  I  shuld  send  yow 
word  what  I  shuld  sey  in  this  mater,  I  pray  yow  in  this  and 
all  other  lyke,  ask  the  seyeres  if  thei  will  abyd  be  ther  langage, 
and  as  for  me,  sey  I  prupose  me  to  take  no  mater  uppon  me 
butt  that  I  woU  abyde  by ;  and  in  lek  wys  for  Yelverton  and 
Aligton.  And  that  ye  send  me  the  namys  of  them  that  ye 
wryte  that  herd  this  langage  seyd  shrewedly,  and  what  they 
seyd ;  and  that  ye  remembre  what  men  of  substance  wer  ther 
that  herde  itt ;  for  if  this  can  be  dreve  to  Heydon  or  his 
dissyplis,  as  ye  wryte,  it  wer  a  gode  preve  that  they  fere  to  be 
appelyd  of  seche  materes.  And  I  thank  yow  for  your  godwill. 
Wrcte  att  Norwych,  on  Seynt  James  day. 


302 

JOHN  CHEDWORTH,  BISHOP  OF  LINCOLN, 
TO  JOHN  PASTONi 

To  the  worshipfull  and  welbeloved  John  Pastony  Esquyer. 

RIGHT  worshipful  and  welbeloved  Sir,  I  comaunde  me  julv  26 
unto  you,  and  with  all  my  hert  thank  you  for  the 
grete  labours  that  ye  oftymes  have  diligently  doon  for 
my  welbeloved  servant  John  Ode,  to  th'entent  that  he  shuld 
mowe  atteyne  to  entre  and  enjoy  peasible  his  enheritaunce,  as  I 
am  enformed  dew  unto  him  ;  and  pray  you  of  youre  goode  con- 
tynuaunce,  certyfieng  you  that  I  have  written  unto  Yelverton, 
the  justice,  that  he  wol,  at  some  sesonable  tyme,  common  with 
Sir  Thomas  Tudenham,  knyght,  and  to  offi"e  him  asmoche 
reason  as  it  shal  be  thought  unto  him  and  to  you,  that  lawe 

1  [From  Fenn,  iii.  24.6.]  The  date  of  this  letter  is  ascertained  by  a  contem- 
poraneous memorandum  at  the  bottom  of  the  original  in  these  words,  '  Litt.  direct. 
Joh'i  Paston  inter  Michaelem  xxxiij.  ct  xxxiiij.  Henr.  Sexti.' 

47 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1455  wol  in  that  behalf  require,  prayng  you  that  ye  wol  common 
JULY  26  ^ith  the  saide  Yelverton,  and  to  conceyve  betwix  you  such 
lawful  meones  of  gyding  of  this  matier  that  my  said  servaunt 
may  have  peasebly  with  owten  grete  trouble  his  said  enherit- 
aunce,  as  I  shal  in  case  semblable  do  my  labour  unto  your 
pleasauncc.  And  pray  you  that  of  the  disposicion  of  the  said 
Sir  Thomas  Tudenham  in  this  behalf,  I  may  be  certified.  And 
Jesu  preserve  you. 

Written  at  London,  the  xxvj.  day  of  July. 

J.,  Bysshopp  of  Lincoln. 


JAMES  GRESHAM  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

^0  my  right  worshipfull  maister,  John  Pasion^  at  Norwkhe, 
he  this  delyvred. 

OCT*  *8     1~^LE ASE  it  your  maistership  to  wete  ^  .  .  .  . 

w^  Here  be  many  marvaylos  tales  of  thynggs  that  shall 
•^  falle  this  next  moneth,  as  it  is  seyd  ;  for  it  is  talked 
that  oon  Doktor  Grene,  a  preest,  hath  kalked  [calculated  }~\  and 
reporteth,  that  by  fore  Seynt  Andreu  day  next  comyng  shall 
be  the  grettest  bataill  that  was  sith  the  bataill  of  Shrewisbury,' 
and  it  shall  falle  bytwene  the  Bisshoppes  Inne  of  Salesbury 
and  Westminster  Barres,  and  there  shall  deye  vij.  Lords, 
whereof  iij.  shuld  be  bisshoppes.  Althis  and  meche  more  is 
talked  and  reported.    I  trust  to  God  it  shall  not  falle  so. 

Also  there  is  gret  varyance  bytwene  the  Erll  of  Devenshire 
and  the  Lord  Bonvyle,  as  hath  be  many  day,  and  meche  debat 
is  like  to  growe  therby  ;  for  on  Thursday  at  nyght  last  passed, 

1  [From  Fcnn,  5.  114.]  This  letter  was  written  in  1455,  at  the  time  of  the 
King  8  second  attack  of  illness,  which  happened  while  he  was  under  the  control  of 
the  Duke  of  York  and  the  Earls  of  Warwicic  and  Salisbury,  as  mentioned  at  the  end 
of  the  letter.  In  the  latter  part  of  the  letter  some  words  are  lost  by  the  decay  of  the 
original  ms. 

•  Here,  says  Fenn,  follows  an  account  of  some  law  business,  etc. 

'  Fought  in  1403  between  King  Henry  iv.  and  the  rebel  Percies. 
48 


HENRY  VI 

the  Erll  of  Denshyres  sone  and  heir  come  with  Ix.  men  of  145 5 
armes  to  Radford's  ^  place  in  Devenshire,  whiche  was  of  coun-  o<^*  ^8 
seil  with  my  Lord  Bonvyle  ;  and  they  sette  an  hous  on  fyer  at 
Radfords  gate,  and  cryed  and  mad  an  noyse  as  though  they 
had  be  sory  for  the  fyer  ;  and  by  that  cause  Radfords  men 
set  opyn  the  gats  and  yede  owt  to  se  the  fyer  ;  and  for  with 
th'erll  sone  forseid  entred  into  the  place  and  intreted  Radford 
to  come  doun  of  his  chambre  to  sp[e]ke  with  them,  promyt- 
tyng  hym  that  he  shuld  no  bodyly  harm  have  ;  up  on  whiche 
promysse  he  come  doun,  and  spak  with  the  seid  Erll  sone. 

In  the  mene  tyme  his  menye  robbe  his  chambre,  and  ryfled 
his  huches,^  and  trussed  suyche  as  they  coude  gete  to  gydder, 
and  caryed  it  awey  on  his  own  hors.  Thanne  th'erll  sone  seid, 
*  Radford,  thou  must  come  to  my  lord  my  fadir.'  He  seid  he 
wold,  and  bad  oon  of  his  men  make  redy  his  hors  to  ride  with 
hem,  whiche  answerd  hym  that  alle  his  hors  wern  take  awey  ; 
thanne  he  seid  to  th'erll  sone,  '  Sir,  your  men  have  robbed  my 
chambre,  and  thei  have  myn  hors,  that  I  may  not  ride  with 
you  to  my  lord  your  fadir,  wherfor,  I  pray  you,  lete  me  ride, 
for  I  am  old,  and  may  not  go.' 

It  was  answerid  hym  ageyn,  that  he  shuld  walke  forth  with 
them  on  his  feete ;  and  so  he  dede  till  he  was  a  flyte  ^  shote  or 
more  from  his  place,  and  thanne  he  was  .  .  .  softly,  for  cawse 
he  myght  not  go  fast.  And  whanne  thei  were  thus  departed, 
he  turned  .  .  .  oon ;  forwith  come  ix.  men  ageyn  up  on  hym, 
and  smot  hym  in  the  hed,  and  fellid  ....  of  them  kyt  his 
throte. 

This   was   told    to   my   Lord    Chaunceler  *   this   fornoon 

messengers  as  come  of  purpos  owt  of  the  same 

cuntre.     This  matier  is  take  gretly passed  at  ij. 

after  mydnyght  rod  owt  of  London,  as  it  is  seid,  more  thanne 
the  best  wyse.     Summe  seyne  it  was  to  ride  toward 

^  '  Nicolas  Radford,'  says  Fenn  in  a  note,  *  was  an  eminent  lawyer,  and  resided  at 
Poghill,  near  Kyrton.'  In  Pole's  Description  of  Devonshire,  p.  219,  we  find  that  one 
Nicolas  Radford  dwelled  at  Upcot  in  Henry  vi.'s  time,  '  after  whose  death  contro- 
versy arose  betwixt  John  Radford  of  Okeford  and  Thomazin,  sister  of  the  said  Nicholas,' 
who  had  married  Roger  Prous. 

2  A  hutch  was  a  coffer  or  chest  standing  on  legs. 

3  A  flight  was  '  a  light  arrow  formed  for  very  long  and  straight  shots.' — Halliwell. 
*  Archbishop  Bourchier. 

VOL.  III. D  49 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1455    my  Lord  of  York,  and  summe k,  so  meche  rumor  is 

OCT.  28    here  ;  what  it  menyth  I  wot  not,  God  turne  it at 

Hertford,^  and  summe  men  ar  a  ferd  that  he  is  seek  ageyn. 

I  pray  God my  Lords  of  York,  Warwyk,  Salesbury 

and  other  arn  in  purpos  to  conveye  hym &c. 

The  seid  N.  Crome,  berer  her  of,  shall  telle  you  suche  tyd- 

ynggs in  hast,  at  London,  on  Seint  Simon 

day  and  Judc. 

Yowr  poer  J.  Gr. 


304 

ABSTRACT  2 

Sir  John  Fastolf  *to  my  right  trusty  Brother,  Nicholas  Molykeux.' 

OCT.  ^o  As  I  come  not  to   London  this  winter,  I  beg  you  to  see  to  my  Lord's 

matters,  and  labour  to  my  Lord  of  Canterbury  and  Master  John  Stokys  for  the 
recovering  of  my  Lord's  ^  [^good^s.  No  man  can  say  more  in  the  matter  than 
you  where  his  goods  are,  *  and  where  they  be  disposed,'  especially  those  that 
Sir  Rob.  Whytynham*  had.  Also  the  Lord  Cromwell  had  'a  certain  number 
of  plate.'  Your  costs  shall  be  paid  out  of  the  first  money  received.  Hears 
from  John  de  Leawe,  one  of  Lord  Willoughby's  executors,  that  they  will 
labour  to  my  Lord  Beaumont  to  advance  the  process  for  recovery  of  his  part  of 
the  reward  for  the  taking  of  the  Duke  of  Alen9on,  Fendykes,  a  learned  man 
of  the  Temple,  will  help  with  his  advice.  Commend  me  to  my  sister  your 
wife. 

Castre,  30  Oct. 

In  Worcester's  handy  and  endorsed  by  him. — *A  John  Paston  et  John 
Bokkyng.' 

[During  the  winter  of  14.55-56  we  find  several  allusions  to  this  claim  put  forward 
by  Fastolf  to  the  goods  of  the  late  Duke  of  Bedford.  Unless  we  are  to  infer  from 
the  manner  in  which  Lord  Cromwell  is  mentioned  that  he  was  dead  when  this  letter 
was  written,  it  is  probably  of  the  year  14.55.] 


*  The  King  was  at  Hertford,  as   appears  by  the  Privy  Seals,  in  Aug\ist  and 
September  1455,  and  not  improbably  in  October  also. 

'  [From  MS.  Phillipps,  9735,  No.  zaS.] 
3  The  Duke  of  Bedford. 

*  Sir  Robert  Whityngham  died  on  the  4th  November  1452. — Inq.  post  mortem, 
31  Hen.  VI.,  No.  47. 


50 


HENRY  VI 


305 

WILLIAM  WORCESTER  TO  JOHN  PASTON 
AND  JOHN  BOOKING  1 

To  the  ryght  worshypfull  Sir,  John  Paston,  and 
to  my  brothyr,  John  Bokkyng. 

PLEASE  it  yow  to  have  yn  knowlege  that  y  veele  well  my  1455 
maister  takyth  gretely  to  hert  the  materes  whych  he  not.  13 
hath  wryt  to  you  uppon  the  execucion  of  my  Lord 
of  Bedford  ys  godes,  and  in  especiall  for  the  recuveryng  of 
hem,  as  well  as  of  Sir  Andreu  O.^  executors  as  of  Sir  Robert 
Whytyngham,  &c.  to  th'entent  that  it  myght  be  opynly  knowe 
yn  hys  lyve  tyme  that  they  be  not  yn  his  gouvernaunce  no  part 
of  it,  and  that  hys  factors  after  hym  shuld  not  be  troubled  ne 
charged  for  it.  And  seth  the  seyd  mater  ys  of  so  grete  wyght 
and  charge,  and  that  he  takyth  it  so  gretely  to  hert,  puttyng 
hys  grettist  trust  yn  yow,  to  remembre  thys  seyd  mater  by 
avyse  of  hys  councell  lerned,  both  spirituell  as  temporell,  that 
ye  woUe  not  delay  it,  but  wyth  all  your  entencion  remembred 
there,  as  ye  by  your  wysdoms  shall  thynk  it  moste  expedient, 
that  som  fruyt  may  grow  of  it. 

There  ys  ynowgh  whereofF,  and  it  myght  be  recuvered, 
John  Bokkyng,  ye  know  ryght  moch  yn  thys  mater,  and 
mooste  of  my  maister  ys  entent  hereynne.  And  therfor,  for 
myne  acquytaille,  y  wryte  to  you  to  shew  the  chiefF  wrytynges 
of  the  copy  of  endentures  of  Sir  Robert  Whytyngham,  and  of 
othyr  wrytynges  concernyng  that  to  Maister  Paston,  that  he 
may  be  more  rypelyer  grounded  yn  the  seyd  mater  when  he 

1  [From  Paston  mss,,  B.M.]  On  the  1  ith  November  1454  Sir  John  Fastolf  wrote 
to  Paston  about  the  goods  of  the  Duke  of  Bedford,  but  the  subject  recurred  to  his 
thoughts  for  more  than  a  year  afterwards,  and  particularly  in  January  1456,  when  all 
the  other  executors  of  the  Duke  were  dead.  This  letter  is  certainly  before  the  death 
of  Lord  Cromwell,  and  therefore  not  later  than  1455  ;  but  it  seems  to  indicate  much 
gfreater  solicitude  on  the  subject  than  Fastolf  showed  in  the  preceding  year. 

*  Sir  Andrew  Ogard,  who  died  on  the  13th  October  1454. — Inq.  post  mortem,  33 
Hen.  VI.,  No.  25. 

51 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1455    shall  comyn  wyth    my  Lordz  of  Caunterburye,   Cromewell, 
NOV.  13    ^j^(^  ^jj}^  onye  of  my  maister  councell.     And  our  Lord  kepe 

you. 

My  maister  carpyth  so  oft  on  it  dayly,  and  that  meovyth 

me  to  wryte  to  yow  both.     Att  Castre,  xiij.  day  of  November. 

Your,  W.  WOR-H.R.-CESTRE. 


306 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  my  right  wurshipfull  hushonde^  John  Paston^ 
be  this  delivered^  in  hast. 

MOV.  25  I  ^  IGHT  wurshipfull  husbonde,  I  recomaunde  me  unto 
f^  you.  Plesith  you  to  witte  that  myn  aunt  Monde- 
■^  ^  forthe^  hath  desiryd  me  to  write  to  you,  besechyng 
you  that  ye  wol  wochesafe  to  chevesshe  for  her  at  London  xx'' 
marke  for  to  be  payed  to  Mastre  Ponyngs,  outher  on  Saterday 
or  Sonday,  weche  schalbe  Seint  Andrwes  Daye,  in  discharch- 
yng  of  them  that  be  bounden  to  Mastre  Ponyngs  of  the  s[ei]de 
xx"  marke  for  the  wardeship  of  her  doughter,  the  weche  xx" 
marke  she  hath  delyvered  to  me  in  golde  for  you  to  have  at 
your  comyn  home,  for  she  dare  not  aventure  her  money  to  be 
brought  up  to  London  for  feere  of  robbyng  ;  for  it  is  seide 
heere  that  there  goothe  many  thefys  be  twyx  this  and  London, 
weche  causeth  her  to  beseche  you  to  content  the  seide  money 
in  dischargyng  of  the  matre,  and  of  them  that  be  bounden, 
for  she  wolde  for  no  goude  that  the  day  were  broken.  And 
she  thankyth  you  hertely  for  the  greet  labour  and  besynesse 
that  ye  have  had  in  that  matre,  and  in  all  others  touchyng  her 

1  [From  Fcnn,  iii.  is*-]  St.  Andrew's  day  fell  on  Sunday  in  14.55  *nd  1460. 
This  letter  must  be  written  in  one  of  these  two  years,  and  the  probabilities  are  greatly 
in  favour  of  the  former,  as  John  Paston  and  William  Worcester  were  not  on  good 
terms  after  the  death  of  Sir  John  Fastolf. 

*  Osbert  Moundford,  Esq.  of  Hockwold,  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  John 
Bemey,  Esq.,  and  by  her  had  Mary,  their  daughter  and  sole  heir,  who  married  Sir 
William  Tindale,  Knight  of  the  Bath. 

52 


HENRY  VI 

and  hers,  wherfore  she  seithe  she  is  ever  bounden  to  be  your    1455 
bed-woman,  and  ever  wolle  be  whyle  she  levethe.  »'o^*  25 

My  cosyn,  her  sone,  and  hese  wife  recomaundethe  them 
unto  you,  besechyng  you  that  ye  woU  weche  safe  to  be  her 
goode  mastre,  as  ye  have  ben  a  fore  tyme ;  for  they  be  enformed 
that  Danyell  is  comen  to  Rysyng  Castell,  and  hes  men  make 
her  bost  that  her  mastre  shal  be  a  yene  at  Brayston  withinne 
shorte  tyme. 

Ferthermore,  as  for  the  matre  that  my  sone  wrote  to  me 
for  the  boxe  wheron  wreten  Fake  Carte  Sproute  that  I  shulde 
enquer  of  William  Wurcestre  wher  it  were,  the  seide  William 
was  not  at  home  sen  that  I  had  hes  letter  ;  but  as  sone  as 
he  comethe  home,  I  shall  enquere  of  hym,  and  sende  you  an 
answer. 

As  towchyng  for  your  leveryes,  ther  can  noon  be  gete  here 
of  that  coloure  that  ye  wulde  have  of,  nouther  murrey,  nor 
blwe,  nor  goode  russets,  undrenethe  iijj.  the  yerde  at  the  lowest 
price,  and  yet  is  ther  not  j  nough  of  on  clothe  and  coloure  to 
serve  you.  And  as  for  to  be  purveid  in  Suffolk,  it  wul  not  be 
purveide  nought  now  a  yenst  this  tyme,  with  oute  they  had 
had  warnyng  at  Michelmesse,  as  I  am  enformed.  And  the 
blissed  Trenyte  have  you  in  his  kepyng. 

Wreten  at  Norweche,  on  Seint  Kateryn  Day. 

Be  your, 

Margaret  Paston. 


ABSTRACT  1 

Sir  John  Fastolf  to  John  Paston. 


DEC.   I  I 


Thanks  him  for  his  pains  in  the  advancement  of  his  'chargeable  matters.*   fidf  f"] 
Was  never  so  much  bound  to  any  kinsman  as  to  Paston,  who  tenders  so  much  "* 

his  worship  and  profit.  Sends  Worcestre  with  important  letters  to  my  Lord 
Privy  Seal  and  the  Abbot  of  Bermundsey,  and  would  like  Paston  to  common 
with  them.  Thanks  him  for  informing  him  of  the  answer  made  to  the  bill  of 
Wentworth,  *  which  I  know  had  stand  in  great  jeopardy  had  not  ye  be.*    Sends 

*  [From  MS.  Phillipps,  9735,  No.  162.] 

53 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

ri4Cc1   his  evidences  concerning  Bradwell,  that  the  Judges  and  Parliament  may  have 
DEC.  1 1     better  consideration  of  his  right,  and  of  the  patents  granted  to  Paston  and 
Howys  in  that  behalf.     Desires  credence  for  William  Worcestre. 
Castre,  1 1  Dec. 

[The  date  of  this  letter  must  be  between  the  year  1454,  when  Sir  John  Fastolf 
settled  at  Caister,  and  1458,  as  he  was  not  alive  in  December  1459.  The  reference 
to  Parliament  fixes  it  more  precisely,  as  1455  was  the  only  year  during  this  period  in 
which  Parliament  sat  in  December.] 


308 

RICHARD  BINGHAM  TO  SIR  JOHN  FASTOLF  1 

Copie  of  my  fader  Bynghames  lettre  to  my  fadre  F. 

About     r)  IGHT  honorable  and  reverend  maistre,  after  due  and 
1455      w^      hertely  recomendacion,  I  thank  yow  als  hertily  as  I 
■^  can  that  it  likith  your  gode  maisterschip,  of  your  god- 

nesse,  to  let  to  ferme  to  my  son  Scrope  the  pouer  enheritance 
that  he  schal  enherit  after  your  decesse,  if  God  will  that  he 
life  therto.  And  I  hafe  for  my  saide  son  comonde  with  my 
maistres  of  your  counsel],  that  is  to  sey,  Paston  and  other,  and 
I  fynde  them  not  straunge,  bot  right  streyte  to  dele  with  in 
the  mater  ;  and  therfore  my  saide  sone,  and  I  for  hym,  must 
sue  to  the  well  of  mercy,  that  is  to  say,  to  your  honurable 
person,  where  is  special  refuge  for  my  saide  son  in  this  cas. 
My  saide  son  is  and  hath  be,  and  will  be  to  hys  lifes  ende, 
your  true  lad  and  servaunt,  and  glad  and  well  willed  to  do  that 
myght  be  to  your  pleaser,  wirschip,  and  profit,  and  als  loth  to 
offend  yow  as  any  person  in  erth,  gentill  and  well  disposid  to 
every  person.  Wherfore  I  besech  your -gode  grace  that  ye 
will  vouchesafe  remember  the  premissez,  my  saide  sons  age,  his 
wirschipfull  birth,  and  grete  misere  for  verrey  povert,  for  he 
hath  had  no  liflode  to  life  open  sithen  my  lady  his  moder  deed, 
safe  X.  marc  of  liflode  that  ye  vouched  safe  to  gife  hym  this  last 

1  [From  Castlecombe  Mss.,  Add.  28,212,  f.  26,  B.M.]  This  letter  has  been 
printed  by  Mr.  Poulctt  Scrope  in  his  privately  printed  History  of  CastU  Combe.  From 
evidences  contained  in  other  of  the  family  muniments,  Mr.  Scrope  supposes  it  to  have 
been  written  about  the  year  1455,  which  is  probably  not  far  from  the  true  date. 
Compare  Letter  349  following. 

54 


HENRY  VI 

yer,  and  therfore  to  be  his  good  maister  and  fader.  And  thof  About 
he  be  not  worthy  to  be  your  son,  make  hym  your  almesman,  1455 
that  he  may  now  in  his  age  life  of  your  almesse,  and  be  your 
bedeman,  and  pray  for  the  prosperite  of  your  noble  person. 
And  if  I  durst,  for  your  displesance,  I  wolde  bescch  yow  that 
ye  wolde  vouchesafe  lat  my  saide  son  hafe  the  saide  lifelode 
to  ferme  for  terme  of  your  life,  payng  to  yow  therfore  yerely 
CC.  marc  at  ij.  festes  of  the  yere,  that  is  to  say,  Cristemasse 
and  Middesomer,  and  ye  schall  be  paied  hit  truly  at  London, 
in  Hillary  terme  for  the  feste  of  Cristemasse,  and  Trinite  terme 
for  the  feste  of  Midsomer  ;  and  I  will  be  bounden  for  hym  and 
[i.e.  if]  your  maisterschip  will  vouchesafe  to  take  me,  and  he 
and  I  schall  ever  pray  for  yow.  And  thof  the  saide  lifelode 
be  better  to  yow  in  availl  yerely  then  I  offer  yow  therefore, 
this  summe  of  CC.  marc  schal  be  truly  paid  to  yow  yerely  ; 
and  God,  that  rewardeth  every  gode  dede,  schal  pey  for  hym 
the  remenant  to  yow,  for  every  peny  an  C,  in  relesyng  of  yow 
in  Purgatory,  or  ellys  encresyng  of  your  merite  in  Heven. 
And  how  your  maisterschip  will  that  my  saide  son  schall  do 
in  this  mater,  I  besech  yow  that  he  may  be  certified  be  your 
writing. 


FASTOLFS  CLAIMS  AGAINST  THE  CROWN.— 1. 1 

Bi/Ia  de  debitis  Regis  in  pardbus  Francia  Johanni  Fastolf 
militi  debitis. 

THESE  ben  the  injuries,  losses,  and  damages  that  the    1455 
seyd  Fastolf  hath  had,  as  well  withynne  this  royaume 
of  England  as  in  othir  parties  in  maner  and  fourme  as 
it  ensewith. 

First,  it  is  to  consider  how 
that  the  seyd  Fastolf  hath  ben 

*  [From  Fenn,  iii.  260.]  The  date  of  this  paper  is  determined  by  the  last  para- 
graph, shovring  that  it  was  composed  fifteen  years  after  Sir  John  finally  left  France  in 
1440. 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


1455  vexed  and  troubled  seth  he 
came  last  into  this  lande  by  the 
myght  and  power  of  the  Due  of 
Suffolk,  and  by  the  labour  of 
his  counseill  and  servaunts  in 
divers  wyses,  as  in  grete  oppres- 
sions, grevous  and  outrageous 
amerciemants  and  manye  grete 
horrible  extorcions,  as  it  may 
appere  more  pleynly  by  a  rolle 
of  articles  thereuppon  made,  the 
damages  of  which  entenden  to 
the  somme  of  .  .  . 

Item,  the  seyd  Fastolf  hath 
be  gretely  damaged  and  hurt 
by  the  myght  and  power  of  the 
seyd  Due  of  Suffolk  and  his 
counseill,  in  disseising  and  tak- 
ing awey  a  maner  of  the  seyd 
Fastolf,  called  Dedham,  in  the 
counte  of  Essex,  to  the  value 
of  C.  marks  of  yerly  rent  which 
was  halden  from  the  seyd  Fastolf 
by  the  terme  of  iij.  yere  day 
and  more,  to  his  grete  hurt, 
with  CC.  marks  in  costs  cx- 
spended  in  recouvere  of  the 
same,  the  some  in  all, 

Item,  there  ys  cast  in  to  the 
Kyngs  hands  by  untrew  forged 
offices  and  inquisicions,  sup- 
posed to  be  founde  by  dyvers 
eschetours  in  the  countees  of 
Norffolk  and  Suffolk,  iij.  cer- 
teyn  maners  of  the  seyd  Fastolf, 
to  the  value  of  C.  marks  yeerly, 
which  seyd  offices  and  inquisi- 
cions were  never  dewly  founde, 
56 


V.  m'.  marc. 


V*^.  marc. 


HENRY  VI 

but  forged  by  untrue  imagina-  1455 

cions  and   meenys   of  certeyn 

persones  hys  eville  willers,  as  it 

hath  be  confessed  by  thos  that 

were  appoynted  and  named  to 

be  uppon  the  enquestys  ;  and 

by  the  maliciouse  labour  of  his 

scyd   evylle   willers,    the   seyd 

maners  have  ben  troubled  and 

put  in  plee  this  iiij.  yere  day 

and  more,  to  the  damage  and 

costs  of  the  seyd  Fastolf,  the 

somme  .         .         .         .         .     V*=.  marc. 

Item,  the  seyd  Fastolf  hauy- 
ing  the  yeft  of  the  Baronyes  and 
Lordshipp  of  Sillie  Guillem^  and 
Lasuze,  in  the  countee  of  Mayn, 
to  hym  and  to  his  assignes  for 
ever,  the  which  weren  goten  by 
the  seyd  Fastolf,  and  no  charge 
to  the  King,  for  the  value  and 
denombrement  \_fiumhr]  of  iiij. 
m^  saluz  ^  of  yerly  rent,  he  was 
commaunded  by  the  Kinges 
lettres  to  deliver  upp  the  sayd 
baronyes  and  lordshipps  to  the 
Kyngs  commissioners,  promyss- 
yng  hym,  by  the  Kyngs  com- 
maundement  to  have  be  recom- 
pensed therefor,  as  the  seyd 
Fastolf  hath  to  shewe,  and  he 
not  recompensed  nor  rewarded 
no  thing  for  the  levyng  of  his 
seyd  baronyes  and  lordship,  to 

^  Sir  John  took  the  castle  of  Siilie  le  Gulllem  in  1425,  and  from  which  he  was 
dignified  with  the  title  of  baron. — F, 

*  The  salute  was  a  gold  coin  of  Henry  vi.  current  in  France  for  ^i,  51. 
English. — F. 

57 


THE  P ASTON  LETTERS 


m'.  m'.  v.*^  [2,500]  marc. 


1455  the  damages  of  the  seyd  Fastolf 
of  the  somme  of     . 

Item,  wher  as  the  seyd  Fas- 
tolf had  a  prisonner  of  his  owen 
taking,  called  Guill'm  Remond,^ 
which  was  raunsonned,  and 
agreed  to  pay  hym  for  his 
raunson  with  the  marks  the 
somme  of  xxxij.  m'.  saluz,  the 
prisonner,  withoute  knowelege 
or  licence  of  the  seyd  Fastolf, 
was  take  awey  from  hym  by  the 
Due  of  Bedford,  then  beyng  the 
Kyngs  Regent  of  Fraunce ;  and 
with  the  seyd  prisonner  he 
caused  the  towne  of  Compyn, 
than  leyng  in  the  Frensh  partye 
ys  gouvernaunce,  for  to  be 
yeldyn  to  the  Kyng,  and  to  his 
seyd  Regent  in  his  name  ;  and 
the  seyd  Fastolf,  after  long 
pursewts  made  to  the  Kyng  and 
his  conseill,  was  recompensed 
but  to  the  value  of  m'.  vj*=. 
saluz  in  lands  in  Normandye, 
when  they  fortuned  to  falle 
into  the  Kyngs  hands,  which 
lands  he  hath  also  lost.  And 
also  the  seyd  Fastolf  hath  lost 
the  residue  of  the  seyd  raunson, 
besyde  the  seyd  lands,  to  the 
somme  of       ...         . 

Item,  the  seyd  Fastolf  ys 
yhyt  owyng  for  his  porcion 
and  part  for  the  recompens 
and   reward   that    shuld  grow 

'  In   1423  he  took  the  castle  of  Pacy,  the  governor  whereof  was  Guillaume 
Reymond. — F. 

58 


m*.  m'.  m'.  m'.  marc. 


HENRY  VI 


m'.  m'.  m^  m^ 


marc. 


and  be  dewe  to  hym  for  the 
takyng  of  John,  callyng  hym 
Due  of  Alauncon,  at  the  batayle 
of  Vernell,^  which  that  payd 
for  hys  raunson  xl.  m'.  marks, 
which  rewarde,  besyde  the  Lord 
Wyllughbye  ys  part,  shuld  ex- 
tend to  the  somme  of 

Item,  ys  dewe  to  the  seyd 
Fastolf,  by  the  execucion  of 
the  last  wylle  and  testament  of 
John,  Due  of  Bedford,  whos 
soule  God  assoyle,  for  prestys 
and  othir  charges  for  saufgarde 
and  keping  of  certeyn  forter- 
esses,  castellys,  and  townes, 
and  for  othir  costs,  prests,  and 
charges  by  hym  born  in  his 
service,  as  it  may  appiere  in 
certeyn  articles  writen  in  a 
rolle  partic'lerly  of  the  same, 
the  somme  of  .         .         .       ^ 

[4,599]  marc,  vs.  6d. 

Summa  totalis  xxj""'.  iiij^xix.  [21,099]  marc,  vs.  6d. 

Item,  seth  the  last  comyng  over  of  the  seyd  Fastolf  into 
this  royaume,  as  by  the  space  of  xv.  yere  and  more,  he  hath 
born  grete  costs,  charges,  and  expenss,  at  alle  tymes  intending 
uppon  the  Kyngs  highnesse  and  the  Lordes  of  his  counseille, 
as  he  hath  had  in  commaundement,  and  was  his  part  to  doo  ; 
for  the  which  and  for  all  the  service  that  he  hath  doo  to  the 
right  noble  Prince  Kyng  Herry  the  iiij*''',  ayle  [grandfather]  to 
our  Souvragn  Lord  that  now  ys,  and  to  the  most  victorious 
Prince  and  Kyng,  his  fader,  whos  soulys  God  assoyle,  and 
also  to  our  seyd  Souvereyn  Lord,  he  hath  had,  nouther  fee, 
wagys,  reward,  ne  recompense  in  this  his  royaume  of  England, 
but  hath  born  it  of  hys  own  propre  godys,  at  all  tymys  to  the 
Kyngs  honour  and  prouffit  as  to  his  power,  which  ys  to  hym 

*  This  battle  was  fought  in  1414. — F. 

59 


1455 


iiij""'.  D'^.  iiij"*.  xix. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

^455  J'ight  grevouse  and  chargeable,  trusting  to  have  be  considered 
and  rewarded  as  othir  men  of  suche  deservyng  have  be  in  the 
tymes  of  the  right  noble  progenitours  of  our  seyd  Souvreyn 
Lords,  late  Kyngs  of  this  seyd  reaume. 


There  is  a  corrected  draft  of  the  above  paper,  in  William  Worcester's  hand* 
writing,  among  the  Paston  mss.  in  the  firitish  Museum,  on  the  back  of  which  are 
the  following  additional  memoranda : — 

Thees  been  the  prestys  and  sommes  of  money  that  the  [jtc]  Sir  John 
Fastolf,  knyght,  hath  lent  to  oure  seid  Soverayn  Lorde  that  now  is,  at  hi» 
commaundement  in  his  grete  necesitees,  at  divers  tymes  with  in  this  his  reaume 
of  England : — 

Item,  the  seid  Fastolf  lent  to  oure 
seid  Soverayn  Lorde,  in  the  moneth  of 
September,  the  xv.  yer  of  his  seid  regne, 
as  it  appereth  at  the  seid  recept  of  West- 
minster, the  somme  of   .  .  .  .     m'  H. 

It  is  also  to  be  remembred  that  the  seid 
Fastolf  hath  lent  to  oure  seid  Soverayn 
Lord,  in  the  moneth  of  Feverer,  the  seid  • 
XV.  yer  of  his  noble  regne,  as  it  appereth 
at  the  Kynges  receyt  of  Westminster,  the 
somme  of    .         .         .         .         .         .     m'  marc. 

Item,  the  seid  Fastolf  lent  to  our  seid 
Soverayn  Lorde,  for  the  viage  of  Sir 
Thomas  Kiriel,  and  of  his  retinue  in  to 
the  Duchie  of  Normandye,  in  the  xxviij. 
yer  of  his  noble  regne  the  somme  of  CC. 
marc.  Also  afore  that  tyme  in  the  Kynges 
grete  necessite  ageyn  the  coronacion  of  the 
Quene,  at  his  forseid  commaundement,  the 
somme  of  C/i.     Somme  of  bothe 

Item,  the  seyd  Fastolf  lent  to  the 
voyage  that  Thomas  Danyell  made  in  to 
Breteyn,  as  it  is  notorily  knowen,  of 
which  he  ys  not  yhyt  payd,  the  somme 
of 

Item,  the  seyd  Fastolf  hath  born  grete 
charge  and  cost  of  a  lone  made  for  the 
spede  and  help  of  a  voyage  whych  the 
Erie  of  Shrewysbury  now  last  made  in 
to  the  Kynges  Duchee  of  Gyen, 


iij"^.  xxxiij^.  vj/.  viij^/.^ 


C^. 


1  So  in  MS.    The  tot^l  should  be  ^loo  less. 
60 


*  A  blank. 


HENRY  VI 

310 

FASTOLFS  CLAIMS  AGAINST  THE  CROWNS 

A  Declaracion  of  the  Costs  which  Sir  John  Fastolf  was 
aty  ben  without  this  royaume. 

THE  declaracions  of  certeyn  prests,  costys,  and  chargys 
don  and  born  by  Sir  John  Fastolf,  aswel  in  the  tyme 
of  the  moste  noble  and  victoryouse  Princes  of  blessed 
memorie,  Kyng  Herry  the  iiij'*'%  Kyng  Herry  v''',  as  in  the 
tyme  of  our  Souvereyn  Lord  Kyng  that  now  is,  in  hys  werrys 
by  yend  the  see,  as  by  the  articles  that  folowen  more  pleynly 
apperyth  : — 

First,  it  ys  to  be  remembred 
that  to  the  sayd  Fastolf  ys 
owyng  for  divers  costys  and 
chargis  by  hym  born  for  the 
tyme  that  he  occupied  th'office 
of  the  Constabulrye  of  Burdeux 
for  the  saufgarde  of  the  Kyngys 
Duchie  of  Guyen,  as  it  apperith 
pleynlye  by  accompt  made  of 
the  sayd  office  of  Constabulrye, 
remaynyng  in  the  Kyngs  Cheker 
at  Westminster  of  record,  wher- 
of  he  yet  nouther  had  payement 
nor  assignement  of,  the  somme 
of  .....     ij*^.  xxvij//.  xvj.  iij^.  ob. 

Item,  in  like  wyse  there  ys 
owyng  to  the  seyd  Fastolf  for 

wagys  for  hys  service  don  to  ' 

the  Kyng,  and  to  the  Due  of 
Clarence,  beyng  the  Kyng  ys 

*  [From  Fenn,  iii.  268.]  This  appears  to  be  a  supplementary  paper  to  the  preced- 
ing. Two  other  copies  or  drafts  of  this  paper  exist  among  the  Paston  Mss.  in  the 
British  Museum. 

61 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

Lieutenant  in  the  seyd  Duchie 
of  Guyen,  as  it  may  appere 
under  suffisaunt  writing,  the 
somme  of       .         .         .         •     U*^  U^'-  ^• 

Item,  in  lyke  wyse  ys  owyng 
to  the  seyd  Fastolf  for  costys 
and  chargys  that  he  bare  when 
he  was  Lieutenant  of  the  towne 
of  Harflew  ^  in  Normandie,  as 
yt  shewith  by  a  debentur  made 
to  the  seyd  Fastolf,  with  hym 
remaynyng,    ....     Cxxxiij//.  vji.  viij^. 

Item,  in  lyke  wyse  ys  owyng 
to  the  seyd  Fastolf  for  the  kep- 
ing  and  vytaylyng  of  the  Bas- 
tyle  of  Saint  Anthoyne  in  Paris, 
as  it  apperith  by  writing  suffi- 
saunt and  by  the  creditours  of 
Sir  John  Tyrell,  Knyght,  late 
Tresourier  of  the  Kyngs  house, 
remaynyng  in  the  Escheker  of 
Westminster  of  record,  the 
somme  of       ...         .     xlij//. 

Item,  there  ys  owyng  to  the 
seyd  Fastolf  for  the  saufgarde 
of  the  toune  of  Fount  Melank^ 
in  the  parties  of  Fraunce,  as 
it  apperith  by  accompt  therof 
made  in  the  Kyngs  Escheker 
of  England  of  record,  the 
somme  of       ...         .     iiij"  ix/r.  xj.  iiija.  ob,  q. 

Summa  xlij.  marc  ixj.  q. 

And  in  semblable  wyse,  over 
all  this  ys  owyng  to  the  seyd 
Fastolf  for  prests  and  wagys 
of  hym  and  his  retenues  beyng 

*  Sir  John  Fastolf  was  Lieutenant  of  Harfleur  in  1415. — F. 
'  Pont  Meulent  was  taken  in  14.2a. — F. 
62 


HENRY  VI 

in  the  Kings  service  in  his  roy- 
aume  of  Fraunce  and  duchie 
of  Normandie,  as  wel  abowte 
the  saufgarde  and  gouvern- 
aunce  of  his  tounys,  castell, 
and  forteresses  of  Alaunson, 
Fresney  Le  Vicounte,  Vernell, 
Honneflete,  as  for  othir  grete 
causys  and  charges  born  and 
payd  in  the  Kyng  our  Souve- 
reyn  Lord  ys  dayes  that  nowys, 
for  the  avauncement  of  his 
conquest,  the  good  and  utilite 
of  hym,  of  his  seyd  royaume 
and  duchie  forseid,  as  it  ap- 
peryth  oppenly  by  accomptys 
made  in  the  Chambre  of  Ac- 
compts  of  Paris  and  Roon, 
wherof  the  vidimus  remaynen 
with  the  seyd  Fastolf,  and  also 
by  certeyn  debentur  conteyn- 
yng  the  seyd  sommes,  redy 
to  shewe,  wherof  the  seyd  Fas- 
tolf hiderto  hath  had  nouther 
payement  nor  assignacion,  the 

somme  of       .         .         .         .v.    m*.   iiij"   ij.  marc,  xiijj. 

ujd.  ob.  sterling. 
Summa  totalis  vj.  m'.  cxxv.  marc,  ixi.  ob.  q. 

There  are  two  drafts  of  the  preceding  statement  among  the  Fasten  Mss.  in  the 
British  Museum,  besides  an  imperfect  draft  hereafter  mentioned.  These  appear 
to  have  been  drawn  up  as  early  as  the  year  1452.  One  of  these  is  in  William 
Worcester's  handwriting ;  the  other  is  a  fair  copy  from  it,  with  further  corrections, 
in  his  hand.  The  document  printed  above  embodies  all  the  corrections  in  the  second 
paper,  and  corresponds  with  it  almost  exactly  in  every  point,  except  that  the  latter 
places  the  second  item  relating  to  the  Duke  of  Clarence  at  the  very  end  of  the 
account,  and  contains  the  following  additional  entries : — 

And  beside  all  this,  there  is  yet  owyng 
to  the  sayd  Fastolf  uppon  the  voyage  that 
Thomas  Danyell  made  into  Bretayn,  as  it 
is  openly  knowen,  the  somme  of      .         .     Qli. 

63 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Item,  overe  this  the  seyd  Fastolf  lent 
.to  the  voyage  that  Sir  Thomas  Kyryell 
made  into  Normandye,  in  the  xxviij.  yere 
of  the  regne  of  the  Kyng  our  Souverain 
Lorde,  the  somme  of  CC.  marc ;  also 
lent  to  the  Kyng  afore  that  tyme  in  his 
necessite  the  somme  of  C^.  The  somme 
of  both,        ...... 

And  also  the  seyd  Fastolf  hath  borne 
grete  charge  and  cost  of  alone  made  for 
the  spede  and  helpe  of  the  voyage  whiche 
the  Erie  of  Shrowysbury  ^  now  last  made 
into  the  Kynges  duchie  of  Guyenne,  to 
whom  God  graunte  good  expedicion,  as  it 
shewith  by  suffisaunt  writyng,  for  whiche 
at  the  commaunderaent  of  my  Lord 
Cardynalle  2  the  seyd  Fastolf  made  a 
chevyssaunce  and  leyd  to  wedd  [i.e. 
pawned]  the  substaunce  of  his  pore  jueliys, 
in  the  whiche  chevyssaunce  the  seyd  Fas- 
tolf hath  lost  xxxvij//.,  and  is  like  to  lese 
more  herafter,  by  cause  he  is  not  of  poer 
to  quyte  hem  oute;  the  seyd  juellys  lyne 
as  yet  to  plegge  for  the  somme  of    . 

Somme  of  the  prestys  and  debtys  abofe 
rehersed,      ...... 


ij"^.  xxxiij/f.  vj/.  viij^/. 


iii'fli. 

ij"|.  xlv.  markes,  vjj.  vJ.  ob. 


The  following  is  written  on  a  separate  paper,  on  the  back  of  which  occurs  the 
imperfect  draft  above  referred  to. 

Item,  overe  all  thys  grete  debtes  dew  at  thys  day  to  the  seyd  Fastolf,  he 
desyryth  and  prayth  that  it  may  be  pondered  and  concydered  the  grete  lossez 
and  damages  that  he  hath  susteyned  and  bom,  as  well  in  the  parties  of  Fraunce 
as  in  thys  land ;  as  at  one  tyme  lost  the  somme  and  value  of  iiij"'.  mark  for 
Guillem  Remond,  hys  prysonnere,  that  agreed  to  pay  for  hys  raunsom  xxxij™*. 
salux.  The  seyd  prisonnere  was  take  awey  from  hym,  and  delyvered  the 
toune  of  Compyne  in  to  the  obbeissaunce  of  our  Souvereyn  Lord.  Also  the 
reward  that  the  seyd  Fastolf  shuld  hafe  hys  part  for  the  takyng  of  the  Due  off 
Allaunson,  whych  shuld  mount  for  hys  seyd  part  iiij"*.  [4000]  markes,  the 
grete  losse  that  he  hath  in  delyveryng  upp  the  baronye  of  Syllye  Guillem,  in 
the  counte  of  Mayn,  be  thout  [jwUhout']  recompense  or  reward,  whych  was 
gevyn  to  hym  and  hys  assigneez  in  the  value  of  m'.  m'.  [2000^  salux  off  yerly 
rent.     Also  the  lesyng  of  hys  pore  lyvelode  in  Normandie  that  was  of  the  yerly 

*  John  Talbot,  first  Earl,  sent  to  France  in  1452  to  recover  Guienne  for  the 
English  ;  killed  the  following  year  in  endeavouring  to  relieve  Castillon. 
>  Cardinal  Kemp. — See  vol.  ii.  p.  160,  Note  7. 

64 


HENRY  VI 

yalue  of  ^  mark.     The  grete  importune  lossez  and  damages  that  he 

hath  had  seth  he  came  into  England,  whych  hys  evylle  wyllers  the  officers  and 
servauntes  of  the  Due  of  Suffolk  have,  be  thout  [jwithout']  cause  resonable, 
made  hym  leese,  as  in  causyng  hym  to  be  disseised  wrongysly  of  iiij.  of  hys 
maners  of  Dedham,  Beyton,  Bradwell,  Hykelyng,  and  Tychewell,  to  the  value 
of  ij'=.  [2003  mark  of  yeerly  rent ;  besyde  othyr  damages  and  lossez  by  colours 
of  the  lawe,  and  by  menys  of  extorcions,  as  it  may  shew  by  a  rolle  of  articles 
to  the  value  of  vj"^.  [6000]  markes. 


NOTE 

*Many  of  the  letters  in  this  collection,'  says  Fenn  (iii.  261,  Note  i), 
*  mention  the  disputes  between  the  Duke  of  Suffolk  and  Sir  John  F'astolf  con- 
cerning different  manors  and  estates.'  This  remark  is  made  with  reference  to 
the  complaints  against  Suffolk  in  No.  309  preceding.  Only  two  of  these 
letters  have  been  seen  by  the  present  editor. 


312 
ABSTRACT  2 

Sir  John  Fastolf  to  Johm  Paston. 

Sends  by  his  servant  an  instruction  to  be  engrossed,  corrected  by  Paston's 
advice,  and  a  remembrance  concerning  Walsingham,  which  I  hope  by  your 
help  *  shall  be  corryged.'  Certain  friends  of  yours  and  mine  have  been  here, 
and  desire  me  to  write  to  you  *  for  your  friendship  and  good  will,  passing  all 
other  men's.' 

»  [The  date  of  this  letter  is  quite  uncertain,  but  it  was  probably  written  some  time 
during  those  later  years  of  his  life  when  Sir  John  Fastolf  resided  at  Caister.  The 
signature,  like  some  others  during  that  period,  is  not  in  Fastolfs  own  hand.] 

i*  Blank  in  ms.  ' 

>  [From  MS.  Phillipps,  9735,  No.  839.] 


VOL.  III. E  65 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 
313 

LORD  CROMWELL  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

'To  my  right  trusty  Jfrendy  John  Paston^  Squier. 

Before  ^  |   CRUSTY  and  welbeloved  frend,  I  grete  you  wele.     And 

140        I         ^°^  ^^  much  as  hit  is  don  me  to  understande  that 

there  is  a  greet  straungenesse  betwix  my  right  trusty 

frend  John  Radcliff  and  you,  withoute  any  matier  or  cause 

of  substaunce,  as  I  am  lerned  ;  wherfore,  in  as  much  as  I  love 

you  wele  bothe,  I  am  not  content  hit  shulde  so  be. 

Praying  you  hertly  to  forbere  the  said  straungenesse  on 
your  partie  to  suche  tyme  as  I  speke  with  you  next  my 
self,  leting  you  wite  I  have  wreten  to  him  to  do  the  same ; 
and  that  ye  faile  not  herof,  as  I  may  do  any  thing  for  you 
herafter.  And  our  Lorde  have  you  in  His  keping. 
Wretin  at  London,  the  x.  day  of  Fevrier. 

Cromwell. 

314 
BOTONER  TO  JOHN  PASTON* 

To  my  maister^  John  Paston. 

14  r  6     TVLEASE  your  maistershyp  to  wete  that  I  had  sent  yow 

JAN.  6      1"^     word  of  the  god  chiere  that  the  persons  ye  wote  off 

^        had  here  uppon  New  Yeer  Day,  and  how  well  they 

toke  it,  but  W.  Barker  coude  playnly  enforme  yow.     And 

'  [From  Fenn,  ii.  290.]  This  letter  was  attributed  by  Fenn  to  Humphrey 
Bourchier,  who  was  created  Lord  Cromwell  in  the  first  year  of  Edward  iv.,  and  it  was 
accordingly  placed  by  him  in  that  reign.  The  signature,  however,  of  which  Fenn 
gives  a  facsimile,  is  not  that  of  Humphrey  Bourchier,  Lord  Cromwell,  but  of  Ralph, 
Lord  Cromwell,  who  died  on  the  4th  Januar)'  1456. 

*  [From  Fenn,  iii.  256.]  By  the  reference  to  the  Duke  of  Bedford's  will  as 
having  been  in  dispute  for  twenty  years,  it  would  appear  that  this  letter  was  written 
in  the  beginning  of  the  year  1456.  Bedford  died  at  Rouen  on  the  14th  September 
H3S- 

66 


HENRY  VI 

John  Sadler  of  Ode  told  me  how  they  avaunted  of  it  when  1456 
he  of  Lynne  came  by  hym  at  nyzt  lyeng,  that  he  had  neider  J^***  ^ 
better  chier,  &c. 

My  maister  demaundyth  me  sondry  tymes  when  ye  shall 
be  here.  I  coude  not  sey  till  thys  day  be  passed.  William 
Geney  shall  be  here  to  morn,  so  wold  Jesus  ye  were  her  then. 
I  asked  licence  to  ryde  yn  to  my  contree,  and  my  maistr  dyd 
not  graunt  it;  he  seyd  hys  wille  was  for  to  make,  &c.  Y 
aunsuerd  it  fyt  not  me  to  know  it.  God  gefe  hym  grace 
of  holsom  councell,  and  of  a  gode  disposicion ;  non  est  opus 
unius  dieiy  nee  unius  septimana. 

My  Lord  Bedford  wylle  was  made  yn  so  bryeff  and 
generall  termys,  that  yn  to  thys  day  by  the  space  of  xx.  yeer 
can  neider  hafe  ende,  but  all  wey  new  to  constrew  and  oppyn- 
able ;  so  a  generallte  shall  ne  may  be  so  gode  as  a  particuler 
declaracion. 

I  wryte  blontly.  I  had  foryete  to  hafe  told  yow  Maister 
Fylongley  meoved  me  to  enforme  my  maister  to  hafe  a 
generalle  pease,  so  it  myzt  be  worshypfull.  Y  hafe  seyd  no 
word,  for  I  can  not  medle  yn  hygh  maters  that  passyth  my 
wyt;  and  therfor  yiF  ye  and  W.  Geney  mete  to  gheders,  ye 
know  and  can  devyne  best  what  ys  to  be  doon.  Our  Lord  be 
with  yow. 


Wryt  hasdy,  vj.  day  Januar. 


W.    BOTONER,    H.R. 


315 

BOTONER  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 

Please  yow  to  wete  that  my  maister ^  yn  allwyse  wille  that  I  ryde  to  I4f6(.^) 
Dedham  to  speke  with  Broke  as  well  as  wyth  the  stuard,  and  to  gefe  aunsuer 
to  Broke  yn  whate  wyse  he  wille  depart  for  the  reuersyn ;  he  was  ryd  or  I 
came  home.  And  ray  maister  wille  comyn  with  yow  for  the  moyens  of  a 
chauntuarye  to  be  founded  of  the  place  ye  wote  off;  y  seyd  hym  such  charge- 
able maters  wold  be  doo  betyme  to  know  the  certeyntee.     And  a  greter  lak  ys 

■  [From  Fasten  Mss.,  B.M.]     From  the  desire  expressed  by  the  writer  in  this 
letter  to  visit  his  own  country,  we  may  refer  it  to  the  same  period  as  the  last. 
«  Sir  John  Fastolf. 

67 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

jAt^n")  yn  hym,  he  taryeth  so  long  to  put  all  thynges  of  charge  yn  a  sure  wey ;  hyt  ys 
for  lake  of  sad  councell  to  moove  hym.  And  I  most  be  at  Castre  by  Thursday 
next ;  and  I  pray  yow  let  me  not  be  lete  of  my  voyage  yn  to  my  contree,  and  I 
shall  kepe  Yorkesshyre  with  Spyrlyng,  or  such  as  shall  ryde.  The  parson  ^  with 
yow  shall  do  well  sort  my  maister  evidences,  and  that  ys  one  the  grettist  thyng 
nedefull  for  the  seurtee  of  hys  lyfelode ;  and  so  it  wold  be  remembred  hym,  for 
now  all  thyng  ys  sett  at  appoynt,  how  it  standyth  with  hys  debtys  and  officers, 
except  that  mater  of  grettist  charge,  and  also  to  provyde  for  the  approwement  of 
hys  lyfelode.  W.  Botoner. 

And,  syr,  yff  ye  thynke  to  done  (think  it  to  be  Jong),  to  meofe  Cler  of  the 
acre  lond,  but  gefe  hym  no  credence  yn  the  contrarye,  for  I  shall  prefFe  it 
trewe  yn  my  seyng  for  onye  man  lyvyng.  He  that  wille  dysseyve  hys  servaunt 
yn  maryage  for  so  litell  a  thyng,  he  wold  disseyve  another  frende  yn  a  gretter 
thyng.     He  sekyth  occasyons  and  querell  to  colour  hys  brekyng  off. 


316 
BOTONER  TO  JOHN  PASTON  2 

About  Please  yow  to  wete  that  as  for  ease  of  my  maisters^  tenaunts  in  Dedham, 

JA.c6  y^  ^  lettre  were  devysed  by  Maister  Geney  yn  my  maister  name  or  youres  to 
^^  Thomas  Hygham,  one  of  the  justices  of  pease  in  Suffolk  that  toke  the  veredyt, 
he  myzt  do  grete  ease,  as  yn  disavowyng  of  it  or  yn  wythdrawyng  it  owte  of 
the  bokes.  Robert  Dene,  clerk  of  the  pese,  seyth  that  lete  my  maister  councell 
avise  that  whych  he  may  do  undammaged  hymsylf,  and  he  wille  with  all  hys 
hert.  John  Bokkyng  ys  well  remembred  that  my  maister  caused  the  seyd 
Thomas  Hygham,  by  Maister  Geney  mocion,  to  be  one  of  the  justice  of  pease, 
and  one  Jermyn  of  Suffolk  also.  Whych  both  Hygham  and  Jermyn  hath 
sufFred  my  maister  hafe,  savyng  your  reverence,  tweyn  shrewde  tornys  seth  that 
they  mizt  hafe  letted,  as  now  the  seyd  Thomas  Hygham  myzt  hafe  letted  the 
presentment  or  a  moderated  othyrwyse,  &c. 

At  reverence  of  God,  beyth  as  sone  as  ye  may  with  my  maister  to  ease  hys 
spyryttes.  He  questioneth  and  desputyth  with  hys  servauntes  here,  and  wolle 
not  be  aunsuerd  ne  satisfyed  som  tyme  but  after  hys  wylfulnesse,  for  hyt  sufFysyth 
not  our  simple  wyttes  to  appease  hys  soule ;  but  when  he  spekyth  wyth  Maister 


*  Sir  Thomas  Howes. 

'  [From  Fasten  Mss.,  B.M.]  There  is  no  address  to  this  letter,  but  it  seems  to 
have  been  intended  for  John  Fasten.  The  exact  time  when  it  was  written  is  un- 
certain, but  we  have  placed  it  after  the  last  on  account  of  the  reference  to  Deddam. 
The  tnie  date  cannot  be  many  years  before  or  after  1456. 

»  Sir  John  Fastelf. 

68 


HENRY  VI 

Zelverton,  yow,  or  wyth  William  Geney  and  suche  othyrs  as  be  auctorised  yn    About 
the  law,  and  wyth  haboundance  of  godes,  he  ys  content  and  haldeth  hym  pleased      iac6 
wyth  your  aunsuers  and  mocions,  as  reson  ys  that  he  be.     So  wold  Jesus,  one  ^ 

of  yow  iij.,  or  som  suche  othyr  yn  your  stede,  myzt  hang  at  hys  gyrdyll  dayly 
to  aunsuer  hys  materes. 

I  had  but  litille  thyng  to  done  when  I  scrybled  thys  bille. 

Your,  W.  BOTONER. 


ABSTRACT ' 

Sir  John  Fastolf  *  to  the  worshipful  Lady  and  my  right  wellbeloved 
Sister,  Whytyngham.* 

As  all  the  executors  of  my  Lord  Regent,  except  himself,  are  dead,  and  as     I4C6 
he  would  not  have  her  troubled  in  her  age  *for  execution  of  my  said  Lord's    j^^.  20 
goods,'  nor  for  the  evidences  of  his  purchased  lands,  etc.,  which  were  left  in 
keeping  '  with  my  brother  your  husband,'  sends  John  Paston  and  other  his 
attorneys  to  common  with  her,  and  settle  the  matter,  which  will  be  a  great 
discharge  for  her  husband's  soul. 

Castre,  20  Jan. 

[This  letter  must  have  been  written  after  the  death  of  Lord  Cromwell,  who  was 
one  of  Bedford's  executors,  and  who  died  on  the  4th  January  14.56. — See  his  Epitaph 
in  Dugdale's  Baronage,  ii.  4.6.] 


318 

ABSTRACT  2 

Sir  John  Fastolf  to  John  Bokking  or  William  Barker,  to  deuver  to 
John  Paston  at  London. 

Copy  of  a  letter  of  Fastolf 's  to  the  wife  of  Sir  Robert  Whytyngham  (the    JAn.  25 
copy  examined  by  Botoner)  to  the  same  effect  as  the  preceding  No.,  but  with 
some  slight  differences  in  the  wording,  and  dated  25th  January  instead  of  20th. 

On  the  back  is  tvritten  : — *  Cousin  Paston,  I  pray  you  take  Nicholas  Moly- 
neux,  Thomas  West,  or  Robert  Waryn,  whether  ye  may  hafe  at  leyser,  with 
you,  to  go  speke  with  the  gentlewoman.' 


*  [From  MS.  Phillipps,  9735,  No.  266.! 

*  [From  MS.  Phillipps,  9735,  No.  275.J 


69 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 
319 

SIR  JOHN  FASTOLF  TO  JOHN  PASTON  AND  OTHERS  1 

To  my  right  trusty  frendes,  John  Paston^  Nicholas  MolyneuXy 
and  'Thomas  JVest^  Escuiers. 

14^6    XX  TORCHIPFULL  Sirs,  and  my  right  trusty  frendis,  I 
JAN.  26      V  %        commaunde  me  to  you.    And  lyke  you  to  wite  that 
"  I  desire  to  knowe  in  certayn,  or  evere  I  laboured  to 

London,  by  whate  menys  in  the  lawe  spirituell  or  temporell  I 
might  labour,  or  ellys  my  frendes  and  atturneys  in  my  name 
and  in  myne  absence  myght  laboure  best,  for  the  recuvere  of 
the  goodes  of  my  Lord  of  Bedford,  whos  soule  God  assoyle, 
and  that  his  purchaced  londes  might  be  sold  to  fulfille  his  wille 
and  pay  his  debtes.  And  if  it  were  thought  that  the  most 
spedyest  and  seurest  wey  were  to  have  it  doon  by  act  of  Par- 
lement,  than  I  desire  and  pray  you,  as  my  singuler  trust  is 
in  you,  that  ye  wille  do  make  a  substanciall  bille  in  my  name 
upon  the  said  mater  and  for  the  said  cause,  to  be  grounded  and 
devised  by  avis  of  substanciall  lerned  man,  as  Thomas  Yonge 
and  othir  suche,  and  of  civille  lawe,  and  the  said  bille  to  be  put 
up  to  the  Kyng,  whiche  is  chief  supervisor  of  my  said  Lordis 
testament,  and  to  the  Lordes  Spirituelle  and  Tcmporelle,  as  to 
the  Comyns,  of  this  present  Parlement,  so  as  the  iij.  astates 
may  graunte  and  passe  hem  cleerly.  And  the  said  bille  may 
be  grounded  with  so  grete  resons  by  your  wysdomes  and  good 
enformacion,  and  so  rightfull  and  of  conscience  that  it  shall 
not  be  denyed,  ne  letted  to  passe  amonges  the  Lordes  Spirituell 
and  Temporell,  neythir  amonges  the  Comyns,  whan  it  comyth 
before  hem.  And  if  this  said  bille,  after  it  is  devised  and 
made,  and  sent  me  a  copie  of  hit,  hit  shold  be  to  me  a  singuler 
confort ;  for  or  evere  I  came  to  London,  I  wold  that  alle  thing 
shuld  be  made  redy  to  my  hande.     And  it  were  exspedient 

*  [The  original  of  this  letter  is  the  property  of  W.  A.  Tyssen  Amhurst,  Esq. 
of  Didlington  Park,  Brandon.]  As  this  letter  was  written  during  Sir  John  Fastolf^s 
residence  at  Caister,  and  Parliament  appears  to  have  been  sitting  at  the  time,  the  date 
must  be  1456. 

70 


HENRY  VI 

and  according  that  my  Lord  Chaunceller^  were  meoved  that  it  1456 
might  please  his  good  Lordship  to  write  a  lettre  to  me,  in  case  mn.  26 
I  must  come  up  for  the  said  cause,  and  that  by  as  muche  he  is 
in  the  mater  as  souverain  juge  and  ordinarie  principalle  under 
the  Pope  in  a  cause  testamentarie,  and  also  by  cause  the  wille 
of  my  said  Lord  is  aproved  in  his  court  before  his  predecessour. 
And  AUe  myghty  God  kepe  you. 

Writ  at  Castre,  the  xxvj.  day  of  Januar. 

Your, 

J.  Fastolf. 

And  I  wolde  this  bille  were  devised  by  my  Lord  of 
Caunterbury  is  avis  and  agreement,  to  th'entent  that  he  may 
tender  the  mater  the  more  whan  it  shalle  come  in  revolucion 
before  hym.  And  I  pray  you  hertely  to  take  this  mater  ten- 
dirlye  to  hert,  for  it  shall  be  to  me  my  most  singuler  comfort, 
and  for  my  discharge  a  grete  record  as  of  myne  acquitayle  to 
my  said  Lordis  soule.  Also  ye  must  make  frendes  of  suche  as 
be  nere  aboute  my  said  Lord  of  Caunterbury,  and  may  do,  as 
Maister  John  Stokys  and  his  styward,  for  to  remembre  his 
good  Lordship  as  ofte  as  nede  is.  And  that  Davy  Breknok 
ne  Sir  Robert  Whitingham  wyffe  be  not  foryeete. 


320 

WILLIAM  WORCESTER  TO  JOHN  PASTON* 

*To  the  worshypfuU  Sir,  John  Paston,  Escuier. 

WORSHYPFULL,  aftyr  dew  recomendacion,  please   jan.  27 
your  gode  maistershyp  to  wete  that  where  as  my 
maister  wrytith  to  yow  so  homelye  of  so  manye 
materes  to  yow  of  hys,  to  be  remembred  unto  hys  councell 
lerncd  by  mene  of  yow  and  of  hys  frendz  and  servauntz  there, 

1  Thomas  Bourchier,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury. 

'  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  must  have  been  written  the  day  after 
the  last,  as  this  also  speaks  of  a  oill  being  presented  to  Parliament  for  recovery  of  the 
Duke  of  Bedford's  goods.  The  passage  in  which  the  writer  proposes  visiting  the 
west  country  confirms  the  date  of  Letter  314. 

71 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1456  y  pray  yow  and  requyre  yow  not  to  wyte  [imputi]  it  me  that 
JAN.  27  y  am  the  causer  of  it  that  my  seyd  maister  noyeth  yow  with  so 
manye  materes,  for,  be  God,  hym  sylf  remembryth  the  moste 
part  of  hem  ;  albe  it  the  particler  rehersell  of  the  materes  be 
fressher  yn  my  remembraunce  then  yn  hys.  And,  Sir,  yn 
trouth  he  boldyth  hym  to  wryte  to  yow  for  the  grete  lofe  and 
singler  affeccion  he  hath  yn  yow  before  all  othyr  yn  hys  causes 
spedyng,  and  that  ye  wille  moste  tendyrlye  of  ony  othyr  re- 
membre  hys  servauntes  as  well  as  othyrs  to  whom  belongyth 
to  spede  the  materes.  He  desyryth  my  Lord  Chauncellor 
shuld  wryte  to  hym  speciallye  yfF  he  most  nedes  com  upp,  and 
a  bille  to  be  made  yn  to  Parlement  for  recuvere  of  my  Lord 
Bedford  godes. 

Sir,  there  ys  one  Haryngton  of  Doncastre,  a  besye  soule, 

-that  damagyth  my  maistre  to  gretely  in  Bentley.  And  Herry 
Sotehille  ys  of  my  maister  councell,  but  no  thyng  that  ys  pro- 
fy table  ys  don  to  hym  to  remedye  it,  ye  shall  see  by  one  Sir 
John  Vincentes  letter  sent  to  yow  now,  and  W.  Barker  can 
enforme  yow.  Yn  the  ende  of  thys  terme  y  suppose  to  be  at 
London,  and  yn  to  west  contre.  My  maistre  wrytith  to  yow 
for  a  rent  of  viij//.  of  annuite  charged  of  a  touneshyp  called 
Batham  Wyly,  that  Maister  Scrope  he  shall  be  beneficed  yn 
the  ryzt  of  it.     Ye  have  nede  fare  fayre  with  hym,  for  he  ys 

-full  daungerouse  when  he  wille.  Y  gate  hym  gode  evidensis 
of  the  seyd  rent  that  my  maister  ne  my  lady  had  nevere,  and 
he  can  not  know  it,  &c.  Also  my  maister  hath  wrcten  to  yow 
for  avice  of  a  new  fefFement  to  be  made  for  the  maners  of 
Tychewell  and  Beytone,  and  betyme  he  desyryth  to  be  sent 
hym.  Y  pray  yow,  and  ye  se  Maister  Yng  at  a  leyser  to 
commaund  me  to  hym,  and  trustyng  hys  gode  maistershyp 
that  he  wille  be  of  my  councell  ayenst  one  William  Fouler  of 
Bokyngham  thath  kepyth  from  me  a  litelle  lond.  And  yfF  he 
wille  contynew  hys  gode  maistershyp  to  me,  ye  may  sey  hym 
that  I  cast  duelle  yn  my  contree,  and  wayt  uppon  hym  to  help 
ghete  ayen  a  pore  gode  of  myn,  for  heere  y  thryve  not,  but 
lose  my  tyme.  Y  pray  our  Lord  have  yow  yn  hys  kepyng. 
Wryt  hastlye,  the  xxvij.  day  of  Januare. 

Your,  W.  Wyrcestre. 

72 


HENRY  VI 


321 

SIR  JOHN  FASTOLF  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 

To  the  worshypfull  Sir^  and  my  ryght  welbelovyd  cosyn^  John 
Paston ;  and  in  hys  absence^  to  John  Bokkyng  and  William 
Barker. 

WORSHYPFULL  Sir  and  cosyn,  I  recomaund  me  to  1456 
yow.  And  lyke  yow  to  wete  that  y  have  a  taylle  ^  ''^b.  5 
with  my  cosyn  Fenne  ^  of  v'=-  [500]  marc  and  more, 
for  to  be  chaunged  uppon  such  places  as  a  man  myght  have 
moste  spedye  payment ;  and  I  pray  yow  hertlye  to  comyn 
wyth  the  seyd  Fenne,  that  y  myght  be  ensured  of  the  seyd 
taylle  to  be  eschaunged  ;  and  for  whate  rewarde  competant  to 
be  yoYtn  uppon  the  same,  I  woUe  agree  It. 

Item,  I  desyre  to  know  who  ben  the  residew,  the  remenant 
of  the  co-executors  of  the  Lord  Wyllughbye,*  now  the  Lord 
Cromewell  ^  ys  decesed  ;  for  thys  cause.  Hyt  was  so,  that 
there  was  dew  to  the  Lord  Wyllughbye  and  to  me  x.  m'- 
[10,000]  marc  for  a  reward,  to  be  payd  of  my  Lord  Bedford 
ys  godes,  for  the  takyng  of  the  Due  of  AUauncon.®  And  the 
seyd  Lord  Wyllughbye  had  but  one  thowsand  marc  payd,  and 
I  m'"  [1000]  mrc,  soo  viij.  m'-  [8000]  levyth  [remains']  yhyt 
to  pay  ;  of  whych  somme  iiij.  m'-  [4000]  most  grow  to  the 
executors  of  the  seyd  Lord  Wyllughby  to  dispose.  And  ther- 
for  y  desyre  that  the  executors,  and  such  as  most  have  intrest 
in  the  Lord  Wyllughby  goodes,  may  be  comyned  wyth  ;  that 
they  may  [make]  purseute  for  payment  of  the  seyd  iiij.  m** 

}  [From  Fenn,  i.  120.]  > 

'  A  tally.  This  was  a  cleft  stick,  in  both  parts  of  which  notches  were  cut  to 
represent  sums  of  money  due ;  on  which  one  part  was  given  to  the  creditor,  the  other 
being  retained  by  the  debtor. 

'  Hugh  Fenn. 

*  Robert,  Lord  Willouehby  of  Eresby.  , 

^  Ralph,  Lord  Cromwell. 

'  John,  Duke  of  Alen9on,  taken  prisoner  at  the  bittle  of  Vemeuil  in  14x4. 

73 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1456    [4000]  marc,  for  hys  part  to  be  had,  and  y  shall  make  for  my 
FEB.  5     part. 

And  [/.(?.  if]  Maister  Nevyle,^  the  whych  hath  wedded  my 
Lady  Wyllughbye,  have  power  or  intrest  to  resseyve  the  Lord 
Wyllughby  ys  debts,  then  he  to  be  labured  untoo.  And  my 
Lord  of  Salysburye  woll  be  a  grete  helper  yn  thys  cause. 

The  Kyng,  whych  ys  Supervisor  of  my  Lord  Bedford 
testament,  hath  wreten  and  comaunded  by  sondry  lettres,  that 
the  seyd  Lord  Wyllughbye  shuld  be  content  for  hys  part. 
And  so  moch  the  mater  ys  the  furtherer. 

And  ther  ys  one  Yon',  a  ser vaunt  of  the  Lord  Wyllugh- 
bye, whych  pursewed  thys  mater  ;  yfF  he  were  yn  London,  he 
coude  geve  gode  enformacion  uppon  thys  mater. 

Y  pray  yow  wryte  to  me  how  my  maters  doth,  and  of 
such  noveltees  as  ye  have  there.  And  our  Lord  have  yow  yn 
hys  kepyng. 

Wreten  at  Castr  hastlye,  v.  day  of  Feveryer,  anno  xxxiiij'** 
Regis  Henrici  vr. 

Your  cosyn,  J.  Fastolf, 


322 

JOHN  BOOKING  TO  SIR  JOHN  FASTOLF  2 

To  the  right  reverent  and  worshipful  Sir^  and  my  right 
good  maister^  my  maister  Sir  John  Fastolf,  at  Castre. 

FEB.  9  T^  IGHT  reverent  and  my  right  worshipful  maister,  I 
rv  recomaunde  me  to  yow  in  my  right  humble  wise. 
■^  ^  Please  hit  your  right  good  maistership  to  wyte  that 
on  Sonday  laste  I  sent  yow  many  and  divers  lettres  and 
writynges,  by  Lam  pet,  of  all  matiers  that  I  hadde  knowlege 
at  that  tyme  redy  to  answere.  And  now  suche  tidinges  as 
ar  here,  but  fewe  that  ar  straunge,  excepte  that  this  day  my 

1  Sir  Thomas  Nevill,  a  younger  son  of  Richard,  Earl  of  Salisbury,  married  Maud, 
the  widow  of  Robert,  Lord  Willoughby. — Dugdale,  ii.  86. 
*  [From  MS.  Phillipps,  9735,  No.  265.] 

74 


HENRY  VI 

Lordes  York  and  Warwik  comen  to  the  Parlement  in  a  good  1456 
aray,  to  the  noumbre  of  iij^-  [300]  men,  all  jakkid^  and  in  feb.  9 
brigantiens/  and  noo  lord  elles,  wherof  many  men  mervailed. 
It  was  seid  on  Saterday  my  Lord  shuld  have  ben  discharged 
this  same  day.  And  this  day  was  seide,  but  if  he  hadde  come 
stronge,  he  shuld  have  bene  distrussid ;  and  no  man  knoweth 
or  can  sey  that  ony  prefe  may  be  hadde  by  whom,  for  men 
thinken  verily  there  is  no  man  able  to  take  ony  suche 
enterprinse. 

The  Kyng,  as  it  was  tolde  me  by  a  grete  man,  wolde  have 
hym  chief  and  princepall  counceller,  and  soo  to  be  called  hise 
chef  counceller  and  lieutenant  as  longe  as  hit  shuld  lyke  the 
Kyng ;  and  hise  patent  to  be  made  in  that  forme,  and  not  soo 
large  as  it  is  by  Parlement.  But  soome  men  thinken  it  wil 
ner  can  otherwise  bee  ;  and  men  speke  and  devyne  moche 
matere  of  the  comyng  this  day  in  suche  array  to  West- 
minster. And  the  Lordes  speken  this  day  in  the  Parlement 
of  a  greet  gleymyng  sterre  that  but  late  hathe  be  seen  diverse 
tymes,  merveilous  in  apperyng.  The  resumpsion,  men  truste, 
shall  for  the,  and  my  Lordes  of  Yorkes  first  power  of  protec- 
torship stande,'and  elles  not,  &c.  The  Quene  is  a  grete  and 
strong  labourid  woman,  for  she  spareth  noo  peyne  to  sue  hire 
thinges  to  an  intent  and  conclusion  to  hir  power. 

I  have  seid  to  the  bringer  here  of  more  to  declare  yow  alle 
a  longe.  And  as  for  hise  comyng,  ye  like  to  understande  that 
your  nevew,  my  Maister  Filongley,  hathe  laboured  and  doon 
that  he  cowde  or  myght  to  hise  preferraunce ;  but  as  for  to 
make  hym  freman  and  at  hise  ease,  to  hise  profite  and  worship, 
it  can  not  bee  with  owte  William  Lyne  be  here,  that  boughte 
hise  prentishode  of  his  maister,  to  hise  grete  hurte  and  castyng 
of  bakke  by  ij.  or  iij.  yere  of  tyme  loste;  and  ne  were  it  that 
the  maister  and  wardeyns  of  the  Taillours  tendre  hym,  be 
cause  of  yow  and  of  Fynynglee,  hise  firste  maister,  that  solde 
hym  to  William  Lyne,  as  weel  as  the  seide  Lyne  and  Richard, 
shuld  alle  lese  ther  fredoms,  as  ye  shall  more  pleinly  under- 
stande by  the  reporte  of  the  seid  Richard,  &c. 

*  ij.  in  coats  of  mail. — See  vol.  ii.  p.  322,  Note  3. 
'  See  vol.  ii.  p.  155,  Note  2. 

75 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1456  This  day  was  my  Lord  Devenshire  at  Westminstre,  and 

FEB.  9  shuld  have  apperid,  but  he  was  countermaundid.  As  to 
youre  matier  of  Wentworthe,  the  trety  contynueth,  and  is 
putte  by  the  arbitrours  in  Fortescu  and  Yelverton,  and  we 
have  day  of  newe  til  Friday  come  sevenyght.  God  graunte 
it  take  a  good  ende.  The  lawe  is  with  us  clerly,  as  weel 
in  th'atteynte  as  therinne  as  yette,  blessid  be  our  Lord,  hoo 
have  you  in  hise  most  noble  governaunce. 

Written  in  your  place  this  Moneday  of  Fastyngange,^  m** 
cccclv.  Your  humble  servaunt,  J.  B. 

And  that  ye  like  to  write  a  good  lettre  for  Richard  Fastolf 
to  Sir  Roger  Chamberleyn,  and  to  Thornton,  Chamberleyn  of 
London,  and  to  both  of  hem,  &c. 


ABSTRACT  2 

Sir  John  Fastolf  to  John  Paston 

FEB.  1 2  Thanks  him  for  the  pains  he  takes  in  his  *  chargeable  matters,*  es]>ecially 

the  ward  of  T.  F.,  and  his  adyice  for  the  recovery  of  my  Lord  of  Bedford's 
goods.  My  servants  Bokkyng  and  Barker  have  written  to  me  for  writings 
making  mention  of  the  jewels  and  goods  of  my  Lord  delivered  to  Sir  Robert 
Whitingham  that  they  cannot  find  there.  I  send,  therefore,  W.  Worcestre 
with  a  copy  of  Whitingham's  account,  which,  however,  is  not  a  complete 
statement. 

Castre,  12  Feb. 

P»S. — Has  just  received  a  letter  from  Paston,  for  which  he  thanks  him. 

[This  letter  was  evidently  written  in  the  same  year  as  No.  317.] 


*  Fastingong  was  Shrovetide. — See  vol.  ii.  p.  131,  Note  i. 

•  [From  MS.  Phillipps,  9735,  No.  270.] 


76 


HENRY  VI 
324 

HUGH  A  FENNE  TO  JOHN  PASTON » 
To  the  right  worchepfull  S'tr^  John  Paston^  at  Norwich. 

RYGHT  worchepfull  Sir,  I  recumaunde  me  un  to  you.     1456 
Leke  you  to  wcte  my  Maister  Fastolf  compert^  is  march  i 
spedde  and  demyd  in  the  Eschequyer  for  hym  a  yens 
the  Kyng,  wher  in  was  crafti  labour  and  cloos  to  the  seid 
spede,  and  laked  no  dylygence,  for  the  matter  was  defused  and 
dubble  intendementz  after  dyverse  mennys  appynyons. 

Her  is  Williem  Brandon,  late  Eschetour,^  and  wold  have  a 
non  molestando  *  for  Fulthorp  ;  and  be  cause  ye  spake  to  me 
that  no  mo  shuld  be  sued  owte,  and  I  can  gete  no  lybarate  ^  in 
that  case,  therfore,  as  it  is  tolde  me,  he  wyll  have  oon  up  on 
Wenteworth  is  patente,  and  that  wer  to  my  maister  bothe 
velleny  and  hurte.  I  pray  you  send  me  heryn  your  avyse. 
It  is  no  grete  maistre  to  gader  up  that  mony,  if  it  wer  wele 
labord.  I  have  somwhat  affrayed  them,  and  made  hem  spend 
mony,  as  I  wot  well  ye  shall  her  therof.  Ye  and  I  been  dis- 
charged of  our  maynprys. 

Now,  Sir,  for  Goddis  sake,  as  I  have  meved  you  a  fore, 

*  [From  Fenn,  iii.  332.]  The  first  paragraph  of  this  letter  seems  to  relate  to 
FastolPs  claims  against  the  Crown  set  forth  in  Nos,  309  and  310,  and  as  these  seem 
to  have  been  drawn  up  in  the  end  of  1455,  this  letter  probably  belongs  to  the  year 
following.  The  reference  to  William  Brandon  as  *  late  escheator '  confirms  this  date  j 
and  also,  perhaps,  the  mention,  at  the  end,  of  William  Norwich,  who  was  Sheriff  of 
Norwich  this  year. 

2  Compertorium  is  a  judicial  inquest  in  civil  proceedings  made  by  Commissioners 
to  find  out,  etc.,  the  truth  of  a  cause. — F. 

'  An  Escheator  was  a  county  officer  who  certified  into  the  Exchequer  the  King's 
escheats,  i.e.  lands  which  fell  to  the  King,  either  for  a  time  or  altogether,  as  by  the 
death  of  tenants  in  capite,  minority  of  heirs,  etc.  William  Brandon  was  Escheator  of 
Norfolk  and  Suffolk  from  13th  November  33  Hen.  vi.  to  4th  November  34  Hen.  vi., 
2.^.  from  1454  to  1455. 

*  A  writ  which  lies  for  him  who  is  molested  contrary  to  the  King's  protection 
granted  him. — F. 

'  A  writ  of  liberate  is  a  warrant  either  for  the  payment  of  annual  pensions,  etc., 
granted  under  the  Great  Seal,  or  for  delivery  of  possession  of  certain  lands  or  goods  in 
the  custody  of  a  sheriff. 

77 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1456    help  to  sette  my  maister  in  a  worchepful  dyrecclon  of  his 

MARCH  I   maters  to  his  honour,  his  profyte,  and  his  hertis  ease,  that 

which  so  doon  he  shall  have  the  better  leysour  to  dysspose 

hym  self  godly,  and  be  sette  his  londs  and  his  goodys  to  the 

plesour  of  God,  and  the  wele  of  his  sowle,  that  all  men  may 

sey  he  deyeth  a  wyse  man  and  a  worchepfull,     Yf  ye  wyste 

what  worchep  shuld  growe  to  you  in  favour  and  conseyte  of 

all  men  thus  to  do,  I  wot  well  ye  wolde  be  right  spedy  therin, 

for  I  beleve  fully  ye  ar  ryght  well  wylled  therto  ;  and  if  owte 

I  cowde  helpe  therto  at  myn  nexte  comyng,  yf  I  knew  your 

entent,  I  wold  do  that  I  cowde.     Yf  it  like  you  to  wryte  your 

avyse  in  a  bylle  that  I  myght  have  it  by  Good  Fry  day  at  Seint 

Benettys,  Williem  Norwyche  wol  send  it  theder.     The  Holy 

Trinyte  conserve  you  in  honour  and  prosperite. 

From  London,  the  furst  day  of  Marche. 

Your,  Hugh  a  Fenne. 


JAMES  GRESHAM  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  my  right  worshipfull  Maister^  John  Paston. 

^456(0  A  ^'^^^  ^^^  recomendacion  had,  please  it  your  maister- 
[mar.  24]  f\  ship  to  wytte  that  William  Yelverton  was  mevid  by 
'*■■*"  me  to  comene  with  my  maister  his  fadir,  as  I  wrot  to 
yow  from  Norwich.  And  now  he  tellith  me  that  he  hath 
comened  with  his  fadir ;  and  he  undirstondith  that  his  fadir 
seyth  that  he  hath  not  knowelaged  Fennes^  obligacion.  And 
he  seyth  that  Maister  Fastolf  undirstood  that  Fen  hadde  title 
to  the  maner  of  Haryngby,  and  therfor  wold  he  that  Fen 
shuld  have  it  after  Maister  F.  lyve  ;  and,  by  liklynes,  ther 
shall  be  labour  made  by  Fenn  to  have  releses  of  Maister 
Yelverton,  &c.,  but  he  hath  not  yet  relesed.     He  can  no  more 

*  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  As  this  letter  relates  to  money  matters  of  Fenn  and 
Sir  John  Fastolf,  it  may  most  probably  be  referred  to  the  same  year  as  Nos.  321  and 
324. 

'  Hugh  Fenn. — See  No.  324. 

78 


HENRY  VI 

undirstond  of  hym  as  yet.     If  he  can  undirstond  ony  more  I456(?) 
pleynly  this  day,  I  shall  have  knowelage  at  Norwich  on  Friday  [mar.  24] 
or  Saterday  next  comyng.     Please  it  you  to  have  pacience, 
though  I  write  so  brefly. 

In  hast,  at  Walsyngham,  the  Wednesseday  next  to  fore 
Ester  ne. 

Yourc  pouere  servaunt,  James  Gr. 


326 
ARCHBISHOP  BOURCHIER  TO  SIR  JOHN  FASTOLpi 

To  the  right  worshipfull^  and  my  right  entierly 
welbeloved  Sir  John  Fastolf^  Knight. 

RIGHT  worshipful,  and  my  right  entierly  welbeloved,  I     1456 
grete  you  right  hertly  wele,  thanking  you  specialy,  march  27 
and  in  full  herty  wise,  for  the  verray  geantle  good- 
nesse  that  ye  have  shewid  unto  me  at  all  tymes,  praying  you 
of  good  contynuance. 

And  as  touching  suche  matiers  as  ye  sente  unto  me  fore,  I 
truste  to  God  verraly,  insomuche  as  the  rule  is  amendid  heer, 
and  the  wedder  waxeth  seesonable  and  pleasante,  to  see  you  in 
thise  parties  within  short  tyme,  at  whiche  tyme  I  shal  com- 
mune and  demeene  unto  you  in  suche  wise,  that  ye  shal  be 
right  wele  pleasid. 

And  as  for  the  matier  concernyng  my  Lord  of  Bedford, 
thinketh  nat  contrarye,  but  that  ye  shal  finde  me  hertly  wel- 
willid  to  doo  that  I  can  or  may  for  th'accomplesshment  of 
youre  desire,  as  wel  in  that  matier  as  in  other,  like  as  your 
servaunte  John  Bokking,  berer  hereof,  can  clierlier  reporte  unto 
you  on  my  behalve ;  to  whom  like  hit  you  to  yeve  feith  and 

1  [From  Fenn,  i.  124.]  The  date  of  this  letter  will  appear  tolerably  certain  on  a 
comparison  with  No.  319.  In  that  letter  Fastolf  talks  or  coming  up  to  London,  if 
necessary,  about  the  matter  of  my  Lord  of  Bedford's  goods,  but  expresses  a  wish  that 
if  he  is  to  come,  my  Lord  Chancellor — viz.  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury — should 
be  got  to  write  him  a  letter  about  it. 

79 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1456    credence  in  this  partie.     And  the  blissid  Trinitee  have  you 
MARCH  27  everlastingly  in  His  keping. 

Written  in  my  Manoir  of  Lamehith,  the  xxvj.  daie  of 
March. 

Your  feithfuU  and  trew,  Th.  Cant. 


DAME  ALICE  OGARD  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

'To  my  right  wurshipfuU  cosyn,  John  Paston^  Esquyer. 

MARCH  30  I  -%  YGHT  worshippfuU  and  enterly  belovyd  cosyn,  I 
r^  comaund  me  to  yow  hertyly;  latyng  yow  wete  that 
^  ^  there  ys  a  contraversie  mevyd  be  twix  my  cosyn  John 
RadeclyfF^  of  Attylburgh  and  me  for  the  advoweson  of  the 
chirch  of  Attylburgh,  the  whech  ys  now  voide,  wherofF  the 
title  is  myn  veryly  as  God  knowith,  the  whech  shall  be  oppenyd 
unto  yow  ;  and  upon  Thursday  next  atte  Wymondham,  there 
shall  be  take  an  enquerre  de  jure  patronatus  afore  Master  Robert 
Popy  and  Master  Symond  Thornham,  atte  whech  day  I  may 
nought  be  my  selff  as  God  knowyth,  and  thow  I  myght,  yt 
were  not  convenyent. 

And  therfore,  ryght  trusty  cosyn,  consideryng  that  I  am  a 
wedowe  impotent  as  of  body,  tendyrly  and  hertily  I  pray  you, 
yf  yt  lyke  yow,  to  be  there  assistyng  my  counceU  in  my  right 
as  rcson  and  lawe  will  upon  Thursday  next,  be  viij.  of  the 
clokke  ;  and  Fyncham,^  Spelman,  and  othir  of  my  councell 
shall  be  than  there  waytyng  upon  yow.  And,  jentyll  cosyn, 
have  me  excused  thowh  I  wryte  thus  brefly  and  homly  to  yow, 
for  in  trouth  I  do  it  of  a  synguler  trust  and  affection,  the 

^  [From  Fenn,  iii.  290.]  This  letter  would  appear  to  have  been  written  in  the 
year  1456,  as  Thomas  Fairclowe,  D.D.,  was  presented  to  the  church  of  Attleborough 
on  the  2nd  August  in  that  year  by  Dame  Alice  Ogard  as  patron. 

'  John  RadclifF,  Esq.,  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  and  heir  of  Walter,  Lord  Fitz- 
Walter.  He  was  in  her  right  called  Lord  Fitz- Walter,  and  was  killed  at  Ferrybridge 
in  146 1. 

'  Simeon  Fincham,  of  Fincham,  Esq.     His  son  John  married  Agnes,  daughter  of 
John  Spelman,  of  Beckerton,  Esq.,  I  suppose  the  person  here  mentioned.     He  died  in 
1460,  and  Simeon  in  1458. — F. 
80 


HENRY  VI 

wheche  I  have  in  yow,  consideryng  the  goode  nome  and  fame  1456 
of  trouth,  wysdom,  and  good  conducte,  the  which  I  here  of  march  30 
you.  And  therfor,  and  ye  may  to  youre  well,  I  beseche  you 
hertyly  to  be  there,  and  ye  shall  nought  lese  therby  with  the 
grace  of  Almyghty  Jesu,  the  wheche  evyr  preserve  and  pro- 
mote you,  gentill  cosyn,  in  moche  worship  to  youre  hertys 
ease.  ^ 

Atte  Bokenham  Castell,  on  Teuysday  in  Pache  weke,  in 
hast.  D.  A.  Ogard.^ 


328 

HUGH  FENN  TO  JOHN  PASTON  2 
To  the  worchepfull  sir,  John  Paston  esquyer. 

WORCHEPFULL  Sir,  my  reverent  and  right  trusty  HS^C?) 
maister  and  cosyn,  I  recommaunde  me  to  you.  ^^^^^  ^5 
Lyke  you  to  wyte  that  wher  I  have  made  my  fyne 
of  Ikburgh  with  Nicholas  Waterman,  thanne  beyng  feodary  to 
my  Lorde  of  Yorke,  as  the  same  Nicholas  wil  recorde,  wherof 
sufficient  writyng  is  had  ;  the  which  payment,  so  made,  is 
sufficient  in  the  lawe  ;  in  the  which  caas  noo  newe  feodary  is 
chargeable  nor  I  demaundable,  but  the  seide  Nicholas  owe  to 
answere  therof  in  his  accompt ;  and  if  he  concele,  my  Lorde 
may  have  good  remedy  ageyns  hym,  and  so  owe  to  do.  The 
which  not  withstandyng,  oon  I  trowe  called  Osbarn,  som  tyme 
your  servant,  now  my  Lordis  feodary,  hath  often  meved  to  do 
I  wote  not,  and  now  late  hath  distreyned  my  cattel,  and  seith 
he  wil  dryve  hem  awey,  &c.,  and  wil  have  Cs.  for  fyne,  wher 
my  uncle  paied  xxvjj.  viij^.,  Herry  Somer  xxj.,  and  so  many 
other  ded.  Sir,  he  may  do  me  a  pety  shame  in  distreyning 
and  dryvyng  awey  to  make  me  hevy,  and  hym  not  glad  Ihoop 


>  Dame  Alice  Ogard  was  the  widow  of  Sir  Andrew  Ogard,  Knight,  whose  first 
wife  was  Margaret,  the  daughter  of  Sir  John  Clifton,  Knight,  of  Bokenham  Castle. 
He  died  in  1+54,  and  Alice,  his  relict,  in  1460. — F. 

*  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  173.]     The  year  of  this  letter  is  uncertain,  but  it  must 
belong  to  the  latter  part  of  Henry  vi.'s  reign,  and  there  is  great  probability  that  it  wa& 
written  in  1456,  like  No.  324,  which  is  also  written  by  Hugh  Fcnn  from  London. 
VOL.  III. F  81 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

^45^(0  3-t  the  loong,  but  wroong  shal  he  nor  any  other  do  me,  wher 
APRIL  25  I  jy^^y  gej-g  remedy  by  the  lawe  in  any  place  throw  Goddis 
mercy.  Wherfor,  sir,  if  he  be  stille  in  your  servyse,  lyke  you 
I  myght  have  knowlech,  and  thanne  if  your  discreccion  scmith 
any  thyng  that  I  owe  to  do,  by  you  I  wil  be  advertysed  and 
ruled  ;  and  if  I  coude  conceyve  that  I  owe  to  pay  ageyn,  as 
I  understonde  clerly  the  contrary,  forsothe  in  right  hasty  seson 
wold  I  provyde  and  send  hym  from  my  seid  lorde  a  sufficient 
discharge  for  myn  more  avail!,  that  he  shuld  noght  lose  by  me. 
And  that  is  reson  aswele,  for  that  I  wil  not,  by  Goddis  grace 
be  hurted  by  hym,  nor  geve  hym  cause  by  my  wil.  I  deserve 
my  lordis  good  lordeship  as  wele  as  any  other  of  my  simple 
poer  her.  I  besech  you  that  by  this  simple  bille  I  may  be 
recommaunded  to  my  worchepful  maistresse.  The  blissid 
Trinite  have  you  in  His  holy  governaunce.  Written,  London 
XXV.  day  of  Aprill. 

Youris  owen,  Hugh  a  Fenne. 


SIR  JOHN  FASTOLF  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  my  worchepfull  Cosyn^  John  Paston^  Esquyer^ 
in  hast  goodly. 

1456    "¥  X  TORCHEPFULL  Cosyn,  I   comaunde  me  to  yow. 

MAY  2  V  w  Lyke  yow  to  wete  that  for  als  moche  as  my  lord 
"  of  Norwich  shal  the  next  wyke  visite  the  hous  of 

Hykelyng,  as  on  Thursday,  as  I  understand,  I  pray  yow  that 
ye  lyke  to  informe  my  lord  how  it  is  appoynted  atwix  the 
prior  of  the  said  hous  and  me  that  my  title  of  xxv.  marc  of 
yerly  rente  is  put  in  the  ordynaunce  of  yow  and  Fyncheham, 
and  if  any  variaunce  fortune  by  twix  yow  that  thanne  we  shall 
stand  to  the  rule  and  ordynaunce  of  my  lord  of  Caunterbury 

*  [Add.  MS.  35,251,  f.  24,  B.M.]     This  letter  seems  to  be  of  the  same  year  as 
No.  341- 
82 


HENRY  VI 

and  of  my  seid  lord  of  Norwich,  they  callyng  to  them  ij.  tem-  1456 
porall  juges  suche  as  them  please,  the  ij.  chef  juges  only  except.  ^^^  * 
Wherfor  that  it  please  his  good  lordship  to  commaunde  the 
seid  priour  to  be  bound  by  obligacion  to  stand  to  the  seid 
appoyntement  in  lyke  form  as  I  at  all  tymes  lefuU  am  redy  see 
to  do,  to  th'entent  that  my  lord  may  verily  knowe  that  the 
complysshyng  of  the  seid  appoyntement  is  nat  deferred  ner 
delayed  by  me.  Forthermore,  Cosyn,  I  understand  that  ye 
have  a  feodary  concernyng  all  the  knyght  fees  in  this  shire, 
and  for  als  moche  as  the  lord  Scalys  cleymeth  an  homage  of 
my  place  called  Essex  in  Hikelyng  I  pray  yow  that  ye  lyke  to 
sende  me  woord  if  it  can  be  understand  by  the  seid  feodary  if 
suche  an  homage  owe  to  be  do  or  nay.  Moreover  like  yow 
to  remembre  that  lateward  I  meved  unto  yow  that  I  wold  do 
kyt  out  a  litell  fleet  rennyng  by  twix  the  Comouns  of  your 
lordship  of  Maulteby  and  Castre  there  it  was  of  old  tyme,  and 
now  is  over  grounded  and  growen  by  reedes.  Wherfor  lyke 
yow  to  write  on  to  your  baly  of  Mauteby  to  take  your 
tenauntes  with  hym  to  have  a  sight  of  the  seid  water  and 
ground,  and  that  they  bere  half  costes  for  ther  part,  and  I  wole 
here  the  other  part.  And  all  though  my  wrytyngges  put  yow 
many  tymes  to  gret  labour  and  besynesses,  I  pray  yow  to  take 
it  that  I  do  it  for  the  synguler  affiaunce  and  feythful  trust  unto 
yow.  Besehyng  All  myghty  God  have  yow,  my  worchepful 
Cosyn,  in  his  mercifull  governaunce.  Writ  at  Castre,  the  ij***- 
day  of  Maij. 

And  that  ye  lyke  to  come  in  to  these  partyes  byfore  ye 
ryde  to  London,  I  pray  yow  hertely  that  I  may  speke  with  yow 
for  dyvers  maters  that  I  have  to  comowne  with  yow,  &c. 

J.  Fastolf. 


83 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

330 

JOHN  BOCKYNG  TO  JOHN  PASTON » 

To  my  worshipful  maister^  John  Pastorty  Squier. 

145^  (2^  IRE,  please  it  your  maistership  to  wyte  that  on  Wednes- 
"^^  ^  ^^  ^^y^  ^^^  ^'  y  °^  Maij,  I  received  a  lettre  from  you 
^^  by  the  prestis  man  of  Walsyngham,  and  the  Ascencion 
Day,^  in  the  mornyng,  I  received  a  lettre  from  yow  bi  the 
handes  of  John  Frays,  my  maisteris  man,  in  whiche  bothe 
moche  thinge  is  conteyned  whiche  alle  at  this  tyme  I  may  not 
answere  un  to  my  comyng  the  nexte  weke.  And  as  to  our 
atteynte,^  the  Chief  Justice  hathe,  sithe  this  day  sevenyght, 
kept  the  Gildehalle  in  London  with  alle  the  Lordes  and  Juges, 
sauf  one  in  eche  place.  My  Maister  Markham  yesterday  rode 
owte  of  London  be  tymes.  Notwithstandyng  we  called  ther 
upon,  and  hadde  at  the  barre  Chokke,*  Letelton,^  Jenney,* 
lUyngworth,'  John  Jenney,  and  Dyne,  and  remembrid  the 
longe  hangyng  and  the  trouthe  of  the  matier,  with  the  grete 
hurte  of  the  partie  in  the  tyme ;  and  we  have  rule  the  next 
terme  betymes,  and  non  otherwise,  for  to  morwe  the  juges 
sitten  ayen  in  the  toune.  Mayster  Yelverton  can  not  be  myry 
for  Wyrmegey,  and  as  for  the  distresse,  it  is  a  non  omittas,  and 
therfore  Foley  may  and  wil  retorne  what  isseus  he  will.  If 
thei  be  smale,  we  shall  suffre  at  this  time  ;  if  thei  be  grete,  we 
must  appere  for  Wyngfelde  ;  and  moche  labour  we  have  to 
concey ve  a  goode'warant  of  attorney.     We  shal  plede  the  next 

*  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  The  date  of  this  letter  is  quite  certain,  not  only 
from  the  circumstance  of  the  5th  May  being  a  Wednesday  in  1456,  as  mentioned  in 
the  beginning,  but  also  from  Ascension  Day  falling  between  that  and  the  8th,  the 
day  on  which  this  letter  was  written. 

*  Ascension  Day  was  the  6th  May  in  1456. 
3  See  Nos.  267,  268,  etc. 

*  Richard  Choke,  Serjeant-at-law,  afterwards  Judge  of  the  Common  Pleas. 

*  Thomas  Lyttelton,  the  great  lawyer,  at  this  time  King's  Serjeant,  afterwards 
Judge  of  the  Common  Pleas,  famous  for  his  treatise  on  Tenures. 

"  William  Jenney. 

T  Richard  Illingworth,  afterwards  Chief  Baron  of  the  Exchequer. 

84 


HENRY  VI 

terme,  for  as  at  this  tyme  we  wold  on  Monday  enparle  and     1456 
we  may.  "ay  8 

Ye  must  suerly  entrete  the  shireve,  for  we  have  moche 
to  doo  with  hym,  as  yesterday  hadde  we  a  grete  day  also  in 
th'eschequer.  Myn  maister^  is  moche  bounde  to  Haltofte, 
and  there  we  ar  assigned  day  over  to  the  next  terme,  and 
dwelle  in  law.  Our  counsail  was  longe  or  thei  come,  but  at 
the  laste  thei  acquitte  them  weel.  The  bille  was  thought  not 
by  all  that  stode  at  the  barre  that  wer  of  nother  partie.  We 
ar  joyned  in  the  sute  of  the  obligacion  in  the  Comon  Place 
ayenst  Jenney  and  Howes.  As  for  attachement,  ye  may  none 
have  withowte  ye  or  on  of  yow  make  your  othe  in  propre 
persone  before  the  barons.  I  wolde  have  doon  it ;  I  cowde 
not  be  amytted.  And  as  for  other  processe,  it  is  advised  that 
by  the  cors  of  th'eschequer  1  shall  take  a  venire  facias  ayenst 
Wentworthe,  Andrews,  longe  Barnard,  and  Deyvill  ad  respon- 
dendum quare  in  possessionem^  &'c.  ingressi  sunt.  And  we  must 
telle  where  other  Coughawe  or  Kirkeley,  I  suppose ;  and  ther- 
upon  a  distresse  and  an  attachement ;  nevertheles  by  your 
othe,  &c.,  hereafter.  And  it  is  thought  good  that  the  same 
men  shal  be  in  the  writte  of  ravyshment.  Jenney  hath  advised 
us  to  ley  it  in  Blithinge  hundred,  and  I  have  taken  of  hym 
names ;  for  as  for  London  it  is  to  nyghe  enbracerye,  as  ye 
thought  well,  and  soo  is  Middlesex.  Maister  Yelverton  con- 
ceyvith  it  weel  to  your  entent.  There  are  aboughte  and  in 
Suffolk  but  fewe  men  as  of  gentilmen  and  men  of  substance, 
but  if  \_unless~\  it  be  in  Blithing  hundre,  were  Hopton  is  grete  ; 
but  Jenney  dredeth  it  not  we  may  have  good  men  at  large  ; 
and  as  for  the  hundre,  he  wil  doo  inow  thereinne. 

As  for  the  tailes  of  iiij""//.  [four  score  pounds']^  as  yette  wc 
shal  doo  weel  inowghe  and  thei  were  contentid  ;  or  thei  that 
shal  have  the  silvere,  the  noyse  were  the  lesse,  for  it  shall,  in 
pledyng,  alwey  be  rehersid  by  our  contrarie  party  that  for  x. 
marc  wc  have  alle  that  evere  ther  is,  &c.  I  can  not  here  how 
Wentworthe  takith  this  matier  by  no  meane  ;  what  he  meneth 
I  wote  not.  He  is  no  thing  pleasid  with  the  matier  of  the 
bille   in  th'eschequer.      Thomas  Dcnys  come  yesterday,  and 

•  Sir  John  Fastolf. 

85 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1456    none  erste.     I  wolde  Arblaster  and  he  spoke  with  yow  this 
MAY  8     vacacion.     I  write  noo  more  til  my  comyng. 

As  for  tidinges,  noon  othere  thanne  I  sent  yow  laste  ;  but 
forthe  on  the  same,  all  is  as  it  was  with  the  Quene/  the  Prince 
and  myn  Lord  York  ar  stille  at  Tutbury  and  Sandale,  and  my 
Lord  of  Warrewick  at  Warrewick.  My  Lord  Bukingham 
rode  on  Ascencion  Even  to  Writell,  noo  thing  wel  plesid,  and 
sum  what  on  easid  of  herte  to  his  purpose  ;  for  the  King  hathe 
ley  in  London  Friday,  Saterday,  Sonday,  Monday,  Teusday, 
and  Wednesday  remevid  to  Westminster  agen.  In  alle  whiche 
tyme,  men  of  London  that  wer  chargid  and  sworne  wolde  not 
nor  hadde  noo  thing  presentid  sauf  trespas  ;  this  day  thei  shal 
sitte  ay  en.  The  peas  is  weel  kepte,  but  the  straungiers  ^  ar 
soore  a  dradde,  and  dar  not  come  on  brode.  Here  is  alle  that 
I  knowe  as  yet.     Our  Lord  Jesu  be  with  yow. 

Writen  at  Suthwerk  the  viij.  day  of  Maij. 

I  have  paied  to  Dory  Cj.,  and  with  moche  peyne  made 
hym  to  ghete  day  of  the  other  Cs.  til  the  nexterme. 

Your  owen  J.  B. 

Endorsed  in  a  seventeent/i-century  hand. — L'ra  Joh'is  Bokking,  Attorn,  in  Com- 
muni  Banco. 

JOHN  BOOKING  TO  JOHN  PASTON » 

To  my  Maister  Paston. 

MAY  15    "T  X  TOR  SHIP  FUL  Sir,   and    my    good    maister,    I    re- 

V^       comaunde  me  to  yow.     This  day  I   come  home ; 

and  as  to  our  materes,   I  shall  be  with  yow  on 

Monday  and  Teusday  next,  be  my  maisters  advys,  and  enforme 

^  A  full  stop  after  '  Qucne '  would  improve  the  grammar  of  this  sentence,  but  the 
original  is  entirely  without  punctuation.  The  writer  evidently  meant  that  the  Queen 
and  Prince  were  at  Tutbury,  and  the  Duke  of  York  at  Sandal. 

'  The  foreign  merchants.  A  riot  took  place  about  this  time  in  London,  in  which 
the  houses  of  foreigners  were  attacked. — See  Fabyan's  CAronicle  j  also  Brovm's 
Venetian  Calendar,  i.  81,  84. 

'  [From  Fenn,  i.  130.]  Whitsun  Eve,  the  day  on  which  this  letter  is  dated,  fell 
on  the  15th  May  in  1456,  just  a  week  after  the  date  of  last  letter;  and  no  one  can 
doubt  that  they  both  belong  to  the  same  year. 

86 


HENRY  VI 

yow  of  all,  and  of  suche  as  I  will  not  write.     Your  cofre  is  at    1456 
the  Prinse  Inne  ;  sende  for  it  whane  ye  like,  be  the  token,  I    may  15 
hadde  of  Margret  Goche  a  boke  of  lawe  that  Wigge  brought 
me.     As  for  tidyngs,  my  maistys  your  brother  faren  weel,  and 
recomaunde  them  to  my  maistresse,  there  moder,  to  yow,  and 
to  all,  &c. 

As  for  tidings  elles,  the  Kyng  is  at  Shene,  the  Quene  and 
Prince  at  Tutbury,  but  if  it  be  the  latter  remevyng.  Tidings 
were  that  the  Lord  Beaumont  was  slayn,  and  my  Lord  Warre- 
wik  sore  hurte,  m'.  [1000]  men  slayn,  and  vj".  [six  score'\ 
knyghts  and  squiers  hurte,  and  no  thing  trewe,  blessed  be 
God.  As  for  the  Lumbards,^  ij.  of  the  trespasers  were  hanged 
on  Monday,  and  there  ar  be  this  tyme  proclamacions  made,  or 
shall  be,  thorwe  London,  the  pees  to  be  kepte  up  on  grete 
peynes  ;  and  the  Lumbards  to  occupie  the  merchaundizes  as 
thei  dide  til  the  Counsail  or  Parlament  have  otherwise  deter- 
myned.     And  noo  more  as  yet. 

The  atteynte  abidith  unreuled  til  the  next  terme,  as  I  shal 
telle  yow,  and  it  shal  doo  weel  with  God  is  grace,  hoe  have 
yow  in  kepyng  and  all  youres. 

Writen  at  Caster  vigilia  Pentecosten. 

Your  owen  J.  B. 


HENRY  WINDSOR  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 

AFTER  humble  and  due  recommendacion,  please  it  your  i^^S(}) 
gode  maistership  to  understand  that  atte  makyng  of  [may  i6] 
this  my  pour  letter  ther  were  no  noveltees  with  us, 
but  suche  as  yee  understode  full  well  afor  your  departyng, 
except  the  Kyng  woll  in  to  Scotland  in  all  maner  wyse  of 

1  See  Note  2,  preceding  page. 

'  [From  Fenn,  iii.  278.]  The  date  of  this  letter  is  doubtful.  The  two  pieces  of 
intelligence  at  the  beginning  were  certainly  both  false  rumours,  as  the  writer,  Indeed, 
seems  to  have  suspected.  Henry  vi.  never  went  to  Scotland  in  manner  of  war,  and 
the  Earl  of  Wiltshire  never  was  made  Chancellor.  But  the  time  when  those  rumours 
seem  most  likely  to  have  arisen  was  in  the  year  1456,  when  the  Duke  of  York  had 

87 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

I456(?)  werre,  and  that  my  Lord  of  Weltshire  shal  be  made  Chaun- 
[may  1 6]  celler.     I  suppose  the  better  is  but  a  sclaunder,  and  therfore  be 
ye  avised  howe  ye  delyver  theym  as  tidynges. 

Also  I  wotte  ful  well  where  I  lefte  you  in  suche  matiers  as 
it  pleassed  you  to  make  me  of  your  counsel),  as  touchyng  oon 
matier  specially ;  and  howe  that  ye  said  unto  me  whenne  I 
desired  your  goode  maistership  to  shewe  favour  in  suche  as 
ye  best  myght  yf  any  thing  shuld  be  shewed  ad  lumen^  my 
Maister  F.  except  ;  and  howe  that  ye  answered  and  said  as  it 
pleassed  you  that  I  was  conquered,  in  trouth,  that  shuld  preve 
but  a  full  grete  unstabulnes  in  me  with  more,  &c.  But,  Sir,  I 
pray  you  howe  some  ever  my  maister  rekeneth  with  any  of 
his  servaunts,  bring  not  the  matier  in  revolution  in  the  open 
Courte,  for  and  it  were  ones  opened  afore  the  Juges  howe  that 
—any  lettre  patentes  shuld  be  purchased  of  an  ante  date,^  and  the 
defaute  faunde  in  me,  ye  wold  be  a  m'-  \thousand\  tymes  avised, 
and  my  Maister  F.  both,  or  that  ye  wold  amend  me  soo  much 
as  I  shuld  be  appered  therbe.  And  therfor  I  beseche  you  be 
well  avised  howe  that  matier  be  oponed  for  myn  ease. 

I  was  not  desired  to  write  unto  you  of  no  on  persone,  so 
God  be  my  help,  yourself  except ;  but  I  wold  ye  wold  take 
avise  and  counsell  of  the  Freest  that  hadde  you  soo  long  under 
hand  on  Shorthursday,^  whenne  I  and  my  feleship,  God  thank 

been  deprived  of  the  Protectorate.  The  Earl  of  Wiltshire,  being  of  the  opposite  party 
to  York,  was  not  unUkely  to  have  been  talked  of  as  Chancellor,  although  the  Chan- 
cellorship was  given  on  the  7th  of  March  to  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury.  As 
to  the  rumoured  expedition  against  Scotland,  we  know  that  in  the  preceding  year 
James  11.,  in  defiance  of  the  truce,  laid  siege  to  Berwick,  which  offered  a  gallant 
resistance  (Nicolas's  Prinjy  Council  Proceedings,  vi.  248).  This,  however,  does  not 
appear  immediately  to  have  led  to  open  war  between  the  two  countries.  Diplomatic 
relations  were  still  carried  on  till,  on  the  loth  of  May  1456,  James  11.  despatched 
Lyon  Herald  to  the  King  of  England  to  declare  plainly  that  the  Tnice  of  1453  was 
injurious  to  Scotland,  and  that  he  did  not  mean  to  abide  by  it  (Lambeth  MS.  211, 
f.  146  b).  No  reply  was  made  to  this  message  till  the  26th  of  July,  when  an  answer 
was  despatched  by  the  Duke  of  York  in  the  King's  name  {see  Rymer,  xi.  383)  ;  but 
there  can  be  little  doubt  the  desire  to  punish  the  insolence  of  the  Scots  must  have 
been  very  general  long  before. 

'  A  law  was  passed  in  the  eighteenth  year  of  Henry  vi.  to  put  a  stop  to  the  abuse 
of  persons  having  interest  about  the  Court  procuring  antedated  letters  patent,  by  means 
of  which  they  were  enabled  to  claim  the  emoluments  of  lands  or  offices  granted  to 
them  from  a  date  anterior  to  the  actual  passing  of  the  grant. — See  Hardy's  Introduction 
to  the  Patent  Rolls  of  King  John,  p.  xxx. 

*  Shere  or  Shore  Thursday,  Maundy  Thursday,  the  day  before  Good  Friday. 


HENRY  VI 

you,  hadde  of  you  right  grete  chere  to  our  grete  comfort  and  I456(?) 
your  grete  coste,  howe  that  the  same  Freest  undcrstandeth  this  ["ay  i6] 
letter  of  the  Gospell  underwrite!! :  *  Jesus  dixit  Simoni  Petro, 
Si  peccav[er]it  in  te  frater  tuus,  vade  et  corripe  eum  inter  te  et 
ipsum  solum  ;  si  te  audierit  lucratus  es  fratrem  tuum.  Si 
autem  te  non  audierit,  adhibe  tecum  adhuc  unum  vel  duos,  ut 
in  ore  duorum  vel  trium  testium  stet  omne  verbum.  Quod  si 
non  audierit,  die  ecclesiae ;  si  autem  ecclesiam  non  audierit,  sit 
tibi  sicut  ethnicus  et  publicanus,'  etc.  And  in  another  place, 
'  Tunc  accedens  Petrus  ad  Jesum  dixit,  Domine,  quotiens 
petevit  [j)eccai^if\  in  me  frater  meus,  [et]  dimittam  ei?  usque 
septies  ?  Dicit  illi  Jesus,  Non  dico  tibi,  usque  septies,  set 
usque  septuagesies  septies.'  ^ 

My  maister  can  doo  no  thing,  the  which  shall  come  in 
open  audience  at  thise  deies,  but  it  shalbe  called  your  dede. 
Hit  is  not  unknoon  that  cruell  and  vengible  he  hath  byn  ever, 
and  for  the  most  parte  with  aute  pite  and  mercy ;  I  can  no 
more  but  vade  et  corripe  eum,  for  truly  he  cannot  bryng  about 
his  matiers  in  this  word  \world\^  for  the  word  is  not  for  hym.- 
I  suppose  it  wolnot  chaunge  yetts  by  likelenes,  but  I  beseche 
you.  Sir,  help  not  to  amend  hym  onely,  by  \hut'^.'\  every  other 
man  y{  ye  kno  any  mo  mysse  disposed. 

I  canno  more,  but  as  I  can  or  mey,  I  shal  be  his  servaunt 
and  youres  unto  such  tyme  as  ye  woU  comande  me  to  sursese 
and  leve  of,  yf  it  please  hym. 

Sir,  I  pray  you  take  this  copy^  of  your  statute,  it  is  not 
examined  be  me,  for  I  found  hit  thise  v.  yeres  pessed. 

Writan  in  my  slepyng  tyme  at  after  none,  on  Wytsonday. 
Also,  Sir,  yf  I  have  rehersed  wyttyngly  the  text  of  the  Gospell 
syngularly  unto  your  maistership,  I  beseche  you  to  be  had 
excused. 

Your  own, 

H.  W. 

*  St.  Matthew's  Gosj>el,  chap,  xviii.  ver.  15,  16,  17,  and  ver.  21,  22. 
'  This  relates  to  papers  sent  with  this  letter,  and  accounts  for  there  being  no 
direction,  as  the  whole  was  enclosed  in  a  parcel. — F. 


89 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

333 

JOHN  RUSSE  TO  JOHN  PASTON 

To  my  Matster  Paston,  in  haaste. 

1456  Please  your  good  maistirship  to  wete  that  my  Lord  of  NorfFolk  yaf  in 

JUNE  I  comaundement  to  Cristofre  and  to  the  balif  of  Colneise  to  laboure  with  us 
acording  to  your  mocion.  And  as  to  Skilly,  fermour  of  Cowhaugh,  we  enteryd 
there,  and  seyd  we  wold  have  payment  for  the  half  yeer  past,  and  sewrete  for 
the  half  yeer  comynge,  or  ellys  we  wold  distreyne  and  put  hym  out  of  pocession, 
and  put  in  a  newe  fermoure ;  and  so  oure  demenyng  was  suche  that  we  toke  no 
distresse,  and  yit  we  have  hym  bounde  in  an  obligacion  of  xviij/z.  payabil  at 
Michelmesse  without  condecion,  and  vjj.  viij^.  we  receyvid  of  hym  for  opoces- 
sion,  for  the  ferme  as  yit  remayneth  on  gatherid  in  the  fermourez  handes.  But 
I  seyd  hym  I  wold  be  ther  ageyn  for  the  recedu  of  the  half  yeer  ferme  past 
withinne  this  xiiij.  dayes ;  and  he  seyd  he  wold  do  'hise  delygence  to  gather  it 
up.  But  he  spak  with  Wentworth  sethyn,  whiche  yef  hym  an  uttyr  rebuke,  as 
he  swor  to  me,  and  seyd  he  wold  have  hys  payment  of  Skylly,  and  sewe  hise 
oblygacion  this  next  terme  whiche  he  is  bounden  in  to  Wentworth  for  the  yeerly 
payment  of  the  same  ferme  ;  and  the  seyd  Wentworth  seyd  he  wyll  takyn  an 
accyon  of  trespas  this  next  terme  ageyn  us  that  were  there ;  and  Devyle  seyd 
ye  were  hender*the  londes  at  the  begynning  of  your  sute  thanne  ye  be  now,  and 
that  shalbe  knowe  be  Lammesse  fiext  comyng,  for  he  hathe  thynges  to  shewe  ye 
saw  nevyr  yit.  Skilly  offerid  me  xIj.  to  have  delyvered  hym  ageyn  hise 
obligacion,  and  he  wold  have  put  me  in  pocession  of  a  distresse,  and  [i.e.  if]  I 
wold  have  delyvered  it  hym ;  he  seithe  he  dede  nevyr  so  mad  a  dede,  for 
Wentworth  wold  no  bettyr  mean  thane  we  had  takyn  a  distresse.  He  shuld 
sone  have  remedyed  that ;  but  now  he  seith  Skylls  is  withoute  remedy,  but  he 
will  be  payd,  &c. 

Item,  Sir,  as  to  the  fermourez  of  the  manor  of  Langston  in  Brustal,  we 
have  also  sewyrte  be  oblygacion  withoute  condecion  payabil  at  Michilmesse,  and 
toke  no  distresse  but  enteryd  the  londes  ;  but  we  had  gret  peyne  to  brynge  hem 
ther  to,  for  ther  is  one  John  Cook  of  Braunford  hath  it  in  ferme  of  Wentworth 
all,  and  he  leteth  it  out  ageyn  be  parcelles  to  iij.  sondre  persones.  But  he  was 
not  at  home,  where  for  we  have  the  same  fermourez  bounde  for  payment,  and 
they  had  no  mony  redy,  but  they  have  promysed  to  delyvere  Herry  Deye  at 
Yepiswiche  this  day  xxj.  in  party  of  payment. 

Item,  Sir,  as  to  the  fermour  of  the  maner  of  Bentley,  clepid  Bentley 
Houses,  we  have  hym  bonde  in  lyke  wyse  for  the  ferme  of  the  seyd  maner 
from  Michilmesse  last  past  tyl  Mychelmesse  next  comyng,  in  an  obligacion  of 
x.  marks  payabil  at  Michilmesse  next  comyng,  without  ony  condecyon  ;  and  in 
party  of  payment  I  have  receyvid  of  hym  xiijj.  iiij^.,  and  he  promyseth  me  iiij. 

'  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.] 
90 


HENRY  VI 

markes  at  Lammesse  next  comyng.     And  as  for  Bradwell,  my  maistir*  hathe      I456 
sewyrte  ;  and  as  for   Kyrley  Hawe,  I  was  with  the  fermour  yistirday,  but  he     jukb  I 
wyll  paye  no  peny,  nor  be  bounde  neithir.     Wherfor  my  maistir  shal  sende  us 
to  take  a  distresse  tomorwyn,  and  I  truste  we  shal  fynde  sum  meanys  to  have 
hym  bounde,  &c. 

Item,  John  Andrewe  hathe  in  fee  yerly  of  the  maner  of  Coughaugh  xxj., 
and  Thomas  Denys  xiijj.  iiij</.  of  the  maner  of  Foxhole,  but  as  ferre  as  I  can 
enquere,  there  is  payd  no  more  feez  out  of  non  of  the  maneris  to  none  othir  men 
but  to  these  tweyne. 

Item,  as  for  the  endenturis,  I  sende  here  Mfith  a  copy  of  Skyllyez  endenture 
and  a  copy  of  Deynis  endenture,   fermour  of  the  maner  of  Bentley,  clepid  , 

Bentley  Houses  ;  and  Herry  Deye  shal  brynge  a  copy  of  John  Cooks  endenture 
of  the  ferme  of  the  maner  of  Langston  in  Brustall ;  and  as  for  Wareyn  Bonde, 
he  mad  nevyr  endenture  for  the  ferrae  of  Kyrkley  Hawe,  for  he  hathe  ocupyed 
it  but  sethin  Michilmesse  last  past ;  and  so  he  holdith  it  but  be  promyse  upon 
compnaunt  [covenant  ?].  And  we  shal  gete  a  copy  of  Sewalys  endenture, 
fermour  of  Bradwelle,  and  me  semyth,  savyng  your  bettyr  avyse,  it  war  right 
expedient  that  ye  shuld  for  the  sped  of  this  mater  be  at  London  in  al  haste. 

Primo  die  Junii  anno  xxxiiij.^ 

Youre  humble  servaunt  and  bedeman, 

John  Russe. 


334 

JOHN  BOOKING  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 

To  my  right  good  maister^  John  Paston^  Squier^  at 
Norwiche,  in  haste. 

SIR,  please  it  your  maistership  to  wyte,  I  have  my  attache-    juni  7 
ments  graunted  in  open  Courte  with  helpe  of  Litclton  * 
and  Hewe  at  Fen,  and  was  bide  to  make  redy  the 
names,  &c.  before  the  Barops,  of  which  Haltoft*^  was  one. 


»  Sir  John  Fastolf. 

*  The  thirty-fourth  year  of  the  reign  of  Henry  vi.     This  date  is  added  in  a 
different  hand,  apparently  that  of  John  Paston,  to  whom  the  letter  is  addressed. 

'  [From  Fenn,  i.  134.]     On  comparing  this  with  the  previous  letters  of  Booking, 
N08.  330  and  331,  it  will  be  seen  that  they  must  all  three  be  of  the  same  year. 

*  Thomas  Lyttelton. — See  p.  84,  Note  5. 
6  Gilbert  Haltoft. 

'  Here,  in  the  original,  followed  various  passages  relating  to  law  business,  which 
Fenn  has  not  printed. 

91 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1456  As   for   tidings,  the    Kyng   is   at    Shene,    the  Quene    at 

JUNE  7  Chestre ;  the  Due  of  Buk  was,  as  I  come  hiderward,  at 
Writell,  the  Erie  of  Warrewyke  at  Werrewyke,  and  the  Lords 
Chaunceller,^  Tresorier,^  and  th'Erle  of  Sar'  [Salisbury^  in 
London,  and  noo  more  Lords  at  the  begynyng  this  day  of 
the  grete  Counsail.  Many  men  say  that  there  shuld  be,  but 
thei  wote  not  what.  The  sege  shall,  as  men  say,  come  to 
Caleys  and  to  Guynes,  for  m.oche  puple  come  overe  the  water 
of  Somme,  and  grete  navies  on  the  see. 

Th'Erle  of  Penbroke^  is  with  the  Kyng,  and  noo  more 
Lordis.  Th'Erle  of  Richemond  ^  and  Griffith  Suoh  (?)  are  at 
werre  gretely  in  Wales.  The  Comons  of  Kent,  as  thei  werre 
wo[n]tte,  er  not  all  weel  disposid,  for  there  is  in  doyng  amongs 
hem  what  evere  it  bee.  Of  Scotts  is  here  but  litell  talkyng. 
My  Lord  York  is  at  Sendall  stille,  and  waytith  on  the  Quene 
and  she  up  on  hym. 

I  dide  my  maistress  your  moderis  erands,  as  ye  have  herde 
of,  for  Maister  William  hath  writen  his  entente,  and  he  and 
Clement  faren  weel. 

Writen  at  Horshighdone,  vij"""  die  Junij. 

Rokewode  and  Crane  faren  weel,  and  thei  and  I  re- 
comaunde  hem  to  my  maistress  your  wif. 

And  as  I  understande,  the  Clerke  of  the  Holies  is  owte  of 
charite  with  Maister  Yelverton,  and  my  Lord  Chaunceller  a 
litell  mcvid,  &c. 

Your  owen,  J.  B. 

^  Archbishop  Bourchier. 

2  Henry,  Viscount  Bourchier,  was  appointed  Lord  Treasurer  on  the  29th  Majr 
1455  {Patent  Roll,  33  Hen.  vi.,  p.  2,  m.  12),  and  so  continued  till  the  5th  October 
1456,  when  the  office  was  taken  from  him  and  given  to  the  Earl  of  Shrewsbury 
{Patent,  35  Hen.  vi.,  p.  i,  m.  16). 

3  Jasper  Tudor. — See  vol.  ii.  p.  298,  Note  i. 

*  Edmund  Tudor, — See  vol.  li.  p.  297,  Note  6. 


92 


HENRY  VI 


335 

ABSTRACT* 
Sir  John  Fastolf  to  John  Paston,  Esq. 

As  to  the  matters  on  which  Paston  sent  to  him  by  Will.  Barker  to  desire  I4C6 
his  advice,  Paston  knows  that  Fastolf  has  put  his  whole  confidence  in  him,  and  junb  18 
begs  he  will  do  with  the  advice  of  FastolFs  learned  counsel  whatever  they 
jointly  think  for  his  weal ;  '  for  ye  know  well  I  am  so  visited  by  the  hand  of 
God  that  I  may  not  deal  with  such  troublous  matters,  without  it  should  be  to 
great  hurt  of  my  bodily  welfare,  which  I  trust  ye  would  not  desire.'  If  you 
find  my  Lady  of  York  disposed  to  visit  this  poor  place,  commend  me  to  her, 
and  tell  her  how  it  is  with  me  that  I  cannot  receive  her  as  I  ought. 

Castre,  18  June. 

[As  it  will  appear  a  little  further  on  that  the  Duchess  of  York  visited  Caister  in 
14.56,  this  letter  is  probably  of  that  year.] 


336 


ABSTRACT  « 

Sir  J.  Fastolf  to  John  Paston. 

To-day  my  cousin  Sir  Miles  Stapleton,  Sir  James  Braylyes,  Andrew  june  24 
Grygges,  ♦  hyr  resseyvor,'  and  Grymston  have  been  with  Fastolf  at  Castre, 
and  brought  him  253  marks,  which  they  would  have  paid  if  he  had  had  the 
obligation  here.  Sends  therefore  a  letter  by  his  servant  Colyn  how  Sir  S.  and- 
he  are  agreed  for  its  deliverance,  etc.  Sir  S.  made  many  strange  insinuations 
that  the  money  was  paid  before,  partly  by  assignment  to  ClyfFton,  etc.  On  the 
1 8th  and  19th  inst.  'long  Bernard,  with  a  priest  of  Kent,  to  the  number  of 
16  horse,  hafe,  at  Nacton,  Bentley,  and  other  places  of  F.,  and  entered  by 
colour  of  a  deed  of  feoffment  made  to  the  Lady  Roos  and  others,  and  hafe 
right  proud  language  to  the  farmers,  that  they  will  obtain  their  intent.'  Russe 
has  written  more  plainly  by  Nich.  Colman. 

*  Item,  I  charge  right  greatly  the  matter  of  my  Lord  of  Bedford  for  my 
discharge,  and  for  the  recovery  of  my  Lord's  goods.'  Begs  Paston  to  common 
with  the  Lord  Chancellor  and  others  about  it ;  and  desires  him  to  give  *  mine 
attorney,  Raulyns,  and  my  Serjeants'  a  warning  *to  take  more  tenderness' 


»  [From  MS.  Phillipps,  9735,  No.  24*.]  *  [IbU.^  No.  263.] 

93 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

I4C6     about    the   process   of  Hykelyng   that   has   been   so    many   years    and   days 
JUNE  24   driven  ofF. 

St.  John  Baptist's  Day. 

[From  the  reference  to  'the  matter  of  my  Lord  of  Bedford,'  this  letter  was  most 
probably  written  in  the  year  1456.] 


337 

ABSTRACT" 
Sir  John  Fastolf  to  John  Paston. 

*  First  it  is  to  remember  that,  upon  St.  John's  day,  there  was  Sir  Symond 
Brayles,  chaplain  of  my  Lady  of  Suffolk,  and  in  presence  of  Sir  Miles  Stapleton 
and  Edward  Grymston,  said  that  the  200  marks  was  paid  before  in  the  Duke 
of  Suffolk's  days.'  Can  prove  by  writings  that  this  was  not  so,  and  that  he 
'offered  to  put  it  upon  my  Lord  Chancellor  and  upon  one  or  two  of  Lords  of 
the  King's  council  as  my  said  Lord  Chancellor  will  call  unto  him,'  that  it  may 
be  known  whether  my  Lady  is  wronged  or  Fastolf.  The  ^100  of  the  above 
sum  was  not  paid  by  assignment  to  Cljrffton.  Sir  Simon  complains  that  the 
suit  was  stolen  against  Sir  Thos.  Tuddenham,  and  judgment  given  without  my 
Lady's  counsel  knowing  of  it ;  which  can  be  disproved. 

Castre,  St.  John  Baptist's  Day. 

'  Item,  I  remembered  Sir  Simon  for  the  restitution  of  ray  revenues  of 
Dedham  3  year  day,  and  my  damage  of  a  mill  put  down,'  etc.  I  paid  500 
marks  for  the  ward  of  Sir  Rob.  Harlyng's  daughter  for  my  Lord  to  Sir  John 
Clyfton,  of  which  the  Duke  had  no  right  to  receive  one  penny,  for  there  was 
no  land  held  of  the  King. 

[This  letter  corresponds  so  tlosely  with  the  last  that  it  must  have  been  written  the 
same  day.] 

*  [From  MS.  Phillipps,  9735,  No.  238.] 


94 


HENRY  VI 


338 

FRIAR  BRACKLEY  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 

Honorabili  viro  Johanni  Paston  armigero  ac  confratri 
suo  Wilklmo  gennano  uierino} 

RYTE  reverent  Syre,  &c.  I  am  informyd  credybily  of  a  i456(?) 
secrete  frend  that  S.  T.  T.  [5/r  Thomas  'Tuddenham]  [june  29] 
and  J.  H.  [John  Heydon\  with  J.  A.  \_John  Andrews  ?] 
and  other  of  cursyd  covy,  wyl  bryng  with  hem  many  gentylmen 
of  here  bende  to  compleyn  upon  me  at  the  next  chapitle,  &c. 
And  there  fore,  by  the  grace  of  God,  I  dispose  me,  with  help 
of  zour  good  maysterschip  and  my  Mayster  Willyam,  zour 
brother.  Where  fore,  at  the  reverens  of  God,  that  ze  do 
speke  with  the  clerk  men  clepyn  Brayn,  that  kepyth  the  bokys 
of  here  inditementes  at  the  oyer  determyner^  anno  xxix°  regni 
Regis  ;  and  that  an  extret  or  a  copy  myte  schortly  be  wrytyn 
owt  of  as  many  namys  as  dedyn  indyte  T.  T.  and  J.  H.  for 
trespas,  extorsyones,  and  oppressyonys  done  to  other  men,  as 
wele  as  to  my  Mayster  FastolfF,  etc.,  that  I  may  be  redy  to 
schew  to  my  ordre,  lyk  a  kalender,  a  legende  of  here  lyvys 
and  here  rewlyng  of  the  cuntre,  in  destruccyon  and  gret 
myschef  of  the  cuntre  in  here  dayes.     At  the  reverens  of 

*  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  Dr.  John  Brackley,  the  writer  of  this  letter,  was  a 
Grey  Friar  of  Norwich,  of  considerable  celebrity  as  a  preacher.  Several  letters  of  his 
are  found  in  this  collection,  written  in  the  years  1459  and  1460.  This,  however, 
must  be  a  few  years  earlier,  as  in  1459  Brackley  writes  of  William  Worcester  in  very 
different  terms.  The  handwriting  also  is  not  so  close  as  that  of  his  later  letters.  We 
cannot,  however,  carry  the  date  hirther  back  than  1455,  as  it  seems  that  Worcester 
and  Howes  were  at  this  time  together,  which  must  have  been  at  Caister.  Nor  will 
the  year  1455  itself  suit  all  the  circumstances  of  the  letter,  for  it  is  evident  that  John 
and  William  Paston  were  also  together,  and  as  the  writer  asks  John  Paston  to  speak 
to  Yelverton,  it  may  be  presumed  they  were  in  London.  Now,  John  Paston  was 
certainly  not  in  London  within  a  week  after  St.  John  the  Baptist's  Day  in  1455. 
We  have  therefore  placed  the  letter  in  1456.  It  will  be  observed  that,  on  the  1st  of 
June  in  that  year,  John  Russe  advised  Paston  to  go  up  to  London. 

'  This  address  is  in  William  Worcester's  hand.  The  letter  itself  is  in  Brackley's 
own. 

^5 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

i456(?)  Jesu,  forzet  not  this  mater,  ne  the  mater  of  Dedham,  etc.  I 
[juNE  29]  wolde  ze  askyd  my  good  lord  and  mayster,  Yelverton,  yf  I 
sent  hym  ony  letter  in  the  same  mater,  &c.  Dicente  Davitico 
Psalmo  :  ^  l^e  obliviscaris  voces  inimicorum  luorum,  nam  superbia 
eorum  ascendit  semper  in  psalmo  ;  qui  et  si  nunquam  ascendant 
in  ccelos,  utinam  nunquam  desendant  ab  {ad~\  abissos,  &c., 
etsi  anima  eorum  in  malis  tabescebat,  &c.  Scriptum  festi- 
nacione  (?)  feria  3*  post  festum  Natalis  Sancti  Johannis 
Baptistae.^  Recommendetis  me  magistro  meo  W.  Paston, 
confratri  vestro,  et  Thomae  Playter  cognato  meo,  cui  dicite 
quod  faciat  Willelmum  Geneye  sibi  benivolum  quia  Sampson 
filius  et  heres  J.  Sampson  olim  mariti  Katerinae  FastolfF  apud 
Owlton  mortuus,  et  ibi  sunt  duas  viduas,  major  et  minor, 
senior  et  junior.     Eligatur  quae  sibi  melius  placet. 

Magister  Thomas  Howys  vobis  amantissimus  se  cordialis- 
sime  recommendat  vobis,  etc.  Item,  Willelmus  Wigorniensis 
recommendat  se  vobis  ex  toto  corde.  Scribo  vobis,  utinam  ad 
placitum. 

Vester  ad  vota, 

F.  J.  B.,  Minorum  minimus. 

I   hafe  a  roUe  redy  of  the  inditements,  that   they  were 
indityd  for  trespase  and  extorsyon  and  oppressyon  done  to  my 
"Mayster  FastolfF,  in  the  keping  of  W.  Worceter,  &c. 

Visa  frangatur  et  in  ignem  post  jaciatur.  Si  dignemini  loqui 
cum  effectu  magistro  Ricardo  Fysscher,  secretario  domini  mei 
comitis  Warwicensis,  pro  cujus  nomine  et  amore  promptissi- 
mus  sum  adhuc  plura  pati,  ut  mittatur  pro  me  litera  magistro 
provincial!  et  diffinitoribus. 

*  See  Psalm  Ixxiii.  (or  Ixxiv.)  23. 

2  St.  John  the  Baptist's  Day  is  the  24th  June.     Feria  tertia  means  Tuesday. 


96 


HENRY  VI 

339 

FRIAR  BRACKLEY  TO  JOHN  PASTONi 

Magistro  meo  venerablU  Johanni  Paston  Armigero  detui. 

Dixi  enim  magistro  meo  gardiano  ante  meum  exitum  quod  magistri  mei 
generosi  at  amici  alii  vellent  me  juvare  pro  die  Jovis  pro  pascendo  doctores, 
patres  ac  caeteros  confratres  nostri  provincialis  capituli ;  et  in  exitu  meo  con- 
sentire  noluit,  quia  Gurnay  suus  socius  et  procurator,  frater  juvenis  nostri  con- 
ventus  et  unus  sacerdos  simplex,  curatus  de  Worsted,  et  Bukle,  cocus,  super  se 
diem  praedictum  assumpserunt.  Et  ego  dixi,  '  Olim  fuit  modus  quod  unus 
ejusdem  loci  magister  esset  praeferendus  in  tali  diei  eleccione.  Sed  unum 
scitote,  si  magistri  mei  certi  generosi  et  ego  cum  eis  habere  non  potuerimus 
diem  quem  elegimus,  certe  pro  hoc  tempore  nullum  alium  diem  habere 
volumus.'  Utinam  placeret  vobis  ut  magistra  mea,  uxor  vestra,  vellet  mittere 
pro  magistro  gardiano,  et  dicere  sibi  quod  ipsa  quaesivit  a  me  qualem  diem 
ego  haberem  pro  fratribus  pascendis  in  tempore  capituli  et  quod  ego  dixi 
me  habiturum  ilium  vel  certe  nullum  aliter.  Quascumque  ego  potero  pro- 
curare  de  pecuniis  seu  victualibus  ego  singula  venderem  et  expendere  vellem  in 
reparacionibus,  &c.  Rogo  vos  ex  caritate  ut  magistras  meas  matri  vestrae  ac 
aliis  amicis  vestris  vobis  notis,  insinuetis  nostram  indigenciam  pro  faciliori 
relevamine  capituli  provincialis.  Sic  enim  ad  vestri  et  mei  magistri  mei  specialem 
instanciam  praesencialiter  habere  residenciam  teneo,  ut  alia  loca  pro  prassenti 
negocio  accedere  non  valeam,  &c.  Non  plura  pro  praesenti  sunt  calamo  prae- 
sentanda,  nisi  quod  vos,  vestros  et  vestra  Jesus  Christus  graciose  conservet  ia 
prosperis  et  graciosius  dirigat  in  agendis.     Amen. 

Recommendetis  me,  si  placeat,  uxori  et  matri  et  confratribus  vestris  W.^ 
&c.  et  domino  meo  Rectori  de  Blofeld,  utinam  de  Hadle,  &c. ;  cui  dicatis 
■quod  hac  nocte  jacuit  Colinus  Gallicus  cum  pulcherima  Amasia  sua  in 
camera  conducta  per  eum,  &c.  Utinam  nunquam  vigeat,  &c.  Ipse  proponit  in 
vestra  prassentia  dicere  dicto  rectori  satis  perversa  verba.  Et  spero  quod 
dominus  Rector  faciat  de  sua  speciali  gratia  meum  negocium  per  Ricardum 
famulum  suum  crastina  die  summo  mane  expediendum,  quia  dies  ista  est  dies 
ultima,  &c.     Ex  manerio  de  Castre,  Sabbato  circa  tempus  prandii  festinantissime. 

Magister  meus  2  valde  gavisus  est  quando  audivit  de  vobis  quomodo  scienter, 
audacter,  viriliter  et  veraciter  respondistis  adversariis  vestris  coram  Domino 
Cancellario  aliisque  dominis,  &c. 

Vester  prae  caeteris  orator, 

F.  J.  B.,  Minorum  minimus. 

•  This  letter  was  copied  by  the  Editor  from  one  of  the  Royden  Hall  MSS.in  1875. 
2  Sir  John  Fastolf. 

VOL.  III. G  97 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

340 

HENRY  FYLUNGLEY  TO  SIR  JOHN  FASTOLpi 

To  my  ryght  worshipfull  unkle,  and  my  ryght  good 
master^  Syr  John  Fastalf^  Knyght. 

i456(?)  inj  YGHT  worshipfull  unkull,  and  my  ryght  good  master, 
JULY  17  1^  J  recomaund  me  to  yow  wyth  all  my  servys.  And, 
^  *-  Sir,  my  brother  Paston  and  I  have  comened  togeder 
as  touchinge  to  your  colage  that  ye  wold  have  made  ;  and, 
Sir,  hit  ys  to  gret  a  good  that  ys  axed  of  yow  for  youre 
lycens ;  for  they  ax  for  every  C.  marc  that  ye  wold  amortyse 
D.  marcz,  and  woU  gefe  hit  noo  better  chepe. 

And,  Sir,  y  told  my  brother  Paston  that  my  Lady  of 
Bargeveney^  hath,  in  dyvers  Abbeyes  in  Lecestershyre,  vij. 
or  viij.  prestes  singinge  for  her  perpetuell,  by  my  brother 
Darcyes  and  my  unkle  Brokesbyes  meanes,  for  they  were 
her  executors  ;  and  they  acorded  for  money,  and  gafe  a  cc. 
or  ccc.  marc,  as  they  myzt  acord  for  a  prest.  And  for  the 
suerte  that  he  shuld  synge  in  the  same  abbey  for  ever,  they 
had  maners  of  good  valew  bounden  to  such  persones  as  plesed 
the  sayd  barthern  \hrethren\,  Brokkesby  and  my  brother  Darcy, 
that  the  sayd  servyse  shulde  be  kept.  And  for  lytell  moore 
then  the  Kynge  axed  hem  for  a  lycence,  they  went  thorgh 
with  the  sayd  abbots.  And  y  hold  this  wey  as  sure  as  that 
other.     Ye  may  comen  with  youre  councell  therof. 

1  [From  Fenn,  1.  166.]  This  letter  must  have  been  written  about  the  time  Sir 
John  Fastolf  first  began  to  make  inquiry  on  what  terms  he  could  obtain  a  licence  for 
establishing  a  college  at  Caister, — a  project  which  he  had  much  at  heart  during  the 
latter  years  of  his  life.  A  letter  from  Sir  John  himself  upon  this  subject  will  be 
found  a  little  further  on,  dated  the  18th  November  (No.  351),  and  we  think  it  probable 
that  this  is  of  the  same  year,  1456. 

2  Edward  Nevill,  Lord  Abergavenny,  was  twice  married.  His  first  wife,  to 
whom  he  owed  his  title,  was  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Richard  Beauchamp,  Earl  of 
Worcester.  His  second  was  Catherine,  daughter  of  Sir  Robert  Howard.  The  Lady 
here  mentioned  is  probably  the  former,  for  though  Dugdale  says  he  obtained  a  dis- 
pensation for  his  second  marriage  in  14.48,  that  date  is  inconsistent  with  the  age  of 
his  son  and  other  facts  mentioned. 

98 


HENRY  VI 

And  yf  there  be  any  servyse  that  I  can  do  for  yow,  hit  I456(?) 
shall  be  redy  at  all  tymes,  with  the  grace  of  God,  who  have  J^^^  '  7 
yow  in  his  kepynge. 

Wry  ten  at  London,  the  xvij.  day  of  Juyll. 
Your  nevew  and  servaunt, 

Henry  Fylungley. 


SIR  JOHN  FASTOLF  TO  JOHN  PASTON^  ' 
T'o  my  worshipful  cousyn,  John  Paston. 

RIGHT  trusty  and  worshipful  cousyn,  I  recomaunde  me  1456 
to  yow.  And  like  it  yow  to  wyte,  myn  attorny,  J^^^  31 
Raulyns,  hathe  enformed  me  that  the  Jugis  have 
ruled  processe  to  goo  owte  ayenst  the  priour  of  Hikelyng  of 
distresse  per  omnia  bona  et  catalla,  of  whiche  the  writte  and 
other  ar  not  yet  come  fro  London.  I  trust  whan  thei  come, 
be  your  good  counsail  and  meane,  the  Shireve  wil  doo  his 
devoir;  how  be  it,  as  I  understande,  thei  have  sente  the  Lord 
Scales  all  there  evidences,  and  he  wil  come  and  dwelle  there 
hym  silf.  And  I  am  also  enformed,  for  certeyn,  that  the 
Bushop  of  Norwiche,  for  all  the  truste  I  hadde  to  hym,  that 
by  his  meane  I  shulde  have  knowen  there  fundacion,  he  hathe 
warned  his  officeres  not  to  have  adoo  therinne,  by  cause  of  the 
Lord  Scales,  &c.  Cousyn,  I  pray  yow,  in  as  moche  as  the 
matere,  by  agrement,  was  putte  in  you  and  Fyncham,  and 
how  that  ye,  for  the  same  cause,  specially  kepte  your  day  at 
London,  and  toke  not  in  there  defaulte  and  not  myn,  that  ye 
wil  soo  in  caas  ye  see  Fyncham  remembre,  and  to  othere  there 
as  ye  seme  it  shulde  profite  to  be  knowen,  and  that  yet  nevcr- 
theles  my  sute  soo  ferforthe  I  wole  yet,  as  I  wolde  thanne, 
and  at  all  tymes  am  redy ;  and  soo  I  wolde  the  priour  knewe, 
and  all  othere,  as  weel  his  weelwillers  as  otheres,  as  the  bringer 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  is  doubtless  of  the  same  year  as  No. 
336,  in  the  end  of  which  Fastolf  wishes  his  attorney,  Rawlyns,  urged  to  greater 
activity  in  the  matter  of  Hickling. 

99 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1456    herof  shall  declare  you  more  pleinly.     As  for  tidinges,  my 

JULY  3 1  folkes  ar  not   yet  come  fro  London.     The  abbot   of  Seint 

Benettes  hathe  ben  with  me,  and  suche  as  he  tolde  me  the 

bringer  shall  enforme  you.     And  our  Lord  Jesu  have  you  in 

governaunce. 

Writen  at  Castre,  the  last  day  of  Julie. 

Your  cousyn,  J.  F. 

LORD  SCALES  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  my  right  trusty  and  intierly  welbeloved frend^ 
John  Paston,  Squier. 

AUG.  10    I  '%  IGHT  trusty  and  entierly  welbeloved  frend,  I  grete  you 

r^      well,  and  wull  ze  wite  that  Danyell  ^  hath  required  me 

to  write  un  to  you,  praying  you  that  ze  wyll  kepc  the 

day  upon  Thursday^  vij.  dayes  nexst  comyng,  which  shal  be 

for  the  best,  as  I  trust ;  not  with  standyng  I  suppose  lerned 

men  wyll  not  be  easy  for  to  gete  be  cause  of  this  besy  tyme  of 

hervest.     Almyghty  God  have  you  in  Hise  governaunce. 

Writen  at  Mydelton,*  the  x.  day  of  August. 

Your  frend,  Scales. 


343 

LORD  SCALES  TO  JOHN  PASTON » 

To  my  right  trusty  and  welbeloved  frendy  John  Paston,  Squier. 

About  Right  trusty  and  welbeloved  frend,  I  grete  you  hertly  well.     And  for  as 

,  ,  -/r/p\  mych  as  I  u[ndyrstond]  a  bill  was  made  at  Vermuth  ageyns  my  cousyn  Bryan 

*  [From  Fenn,  i.  138.]  This  letter  is  dated  by  a  memorandum  at  the  bottom  of 
the  original,  in  the  handwriting,  as  Fenn  believes,  of  John  Paston  :  '  Lettera  inter 
Mich,  xxxiiij.  et  xxxv.'  < 

2  Thomas  Daniel  of  Rising. — See  vol.  ii.  pp.  79,  80,  103,  etc. 

'  19th  August.  *  In  Norfolk. 

*  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M,]  This  letter  is  placed  immediately  after  another 
letter  of  Lord  Scales,  dated  like  this  from  his  seat  at  Middleton  in  Norfolk,  as  pro- 
bably belonging  to  the  same  period,  though  the  exact  year  is  uncertain. 

100 


HENRY  VI 

Stapylton   and  hise    wy.    .    .    .   have  set  up  the   said   bill   in   the    Kynges    ASout 
Bench,  which  bill  is  in  your  kepyng,  pray[ing]  you  that  ye  wyll  sende  me  the  i4.f  6^?^ 
same  bill  be  the  bringer  herof,  to  the  entent  I  m[ay]  se  it.     And  as  I  am 
informed  be  my  said  cousyn,  ye  shewed  hym  grete  gentflnesse  and  benyvolence, 
wherof  I  thanke  you  right  hertely.     I  pray  God  have  you  in  governance. 
Writen  at  Midelton,  the  xx.  day  of  Septembre. 

Zowr  frend,  Scales. 


344 

ARCHBISHOP  BOURCHIER  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 

To  our  right  truste  and  right  welbeloved  John  Paston^  Esquier, 
and  William  Norwiche^  and  to  either  of  theym. 

RIGHT  truste  and  right  welbeloved,  we  grete  you  hertly  1456 
wel.  And  where  as  Sir  Nichol  Bowet,  Knight,  sueth  sept.  7 
an  appeelle  in  the  countee  of  NorfFolk  ayenst  oon 
Robert  OfFord  of  Berking  for  the  deeth  of  oon  Sir  Henry 
Bowet,  clerc,  we  being  enformed  that  the  matier  is  pitevous, 
praie  you  hertly  that  ye  wul  in  our  behalve  moeve  and 
entreete  the  Shirreve  of  the  saide  countee  to  surceese  of  the 
execucion  of  any  processe  upon  the  exigent  ^  to  hym  directed 
in  that  behalve  unto  the  next  terme,  so  that  resonable  meanes 
maye  be  founden  to  save  the  saide  Robert  harmelesse ;  lating 
hym  wite  that  we  have  written  to  the  saide  Sir  Nichol  for  a 
convenient  treetie  to  be  taken  in  that  behalve,  as  shalbe 
thought  according  to  right.  And  God  have  you  ever  in  his 
keping. 

Written   in   our  Manoir  of   Mortelake,  the  vij.   daie  of 
September. 

T.,  Archbysshopp  of  Canterbury. 

*  [From  Fenn,  iii.  276.]  This  letter  may  be  presumed  to  have  been  written 
during  the  time  that  Archbishop  Bourchier  was  Lord  Chancellor,  viz.  between  7th 
March  1455  and  nth  October  1456,  when  the  Great  Seal  was  given  to  Bishop 
Waynfleet.  William  Norwich,  also,  was  Sheriff  of  Norwich  in  1455,  and  is  doubt- 
less addressed  in  that  capacity,  but  his  year  of  office  would  not  have  begun  so  early 
as  September.     The  letter  therefore  belongs  to  the  following  year. 

2  Sheriff  of  Norwich,  1455;  Mayor,  1461.     Died,  1463-4. — Blomefield. 

'  See  vol.  ii.  p.  248,  Note  4. 

lOI 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

345 

JOHN  BOCKING  TO  JOHN  PASTON » 

To  my  right  worshipful  Maister,  John  Pas  ton. 

145^  TPJ  IGHT  worshipful  Sir,  and  my  good  maister,  I  re- 
^^  ^  r\  comaunde  me  to  yow,  and  have  receyvid  a  lettre 
'■-  ^  from  yow  by  Sir  Thomas  is  man,  berer  here  of.  And 
as  for  the  accions,'  bothe  of  ravishement  and  th'attachement, 
the  declaracions  ar  made  tunc  so/vend^  and  not  so/ut\  and  as 
moche  amendid  as  we  can  or  may  be  favour  have  amendid. 
We  hadde  be  beguyled  and  they  hadde  not  be  sen  in  NorfFolk, 
for  here  til  this  day  come  noo  counsaill  ;  and  to  have  per 
manus  Johannis  Wyngfelde  it  wole  not  be,  for  we  can  not 
bringe  it  inne,  and  also  it  is  to  late. 

And  as  for  iiij*V/.  \_  fourscore  pounds'\^  Fenn  and  1 .  mette 
with  Worsop  this  day,  and  he  spake  soore  to  Fenn  and  me, 
and  we  put  hym  overe,  saying  we  wolde  doo  as  moche  as  we 
myghte.  I  thinke  verily  that  Fenn  wole  deserve  ther  inne  a 
thanke,  but  I  can  not  understande  hym  what  he  wolde  be 
doon  to,  or  how  rewardid,  for  whanne  I  speke  of  it  he  is 
desplesid,  and  seithe  he  desirith  noo  rewarde ;  but  he  farith  as 
a  man  wole  sey  he  wold  noo  silvere,  and  lokith  awaywardes 
and  takith  a  noble.  And  he  hath  written  to  yow  of  the  matere 
of  Sir  Philip  Wentworthe  touching  this  writte  of  liberate^ 
whiche  is  but  a  color  and  noo  warant  sufficient,  ner  we  owe 
not  to  doo  no  thinge  that  shuld  obeye  it,  ner  the  Shireve 
nother  dothe  but  of  favor  that  he  dothe  to  hem,  and  hym  liste 
otherwise  to  doo,  as  Fenn  writeth  yow  more  pleinly.     And  as 

*  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  The  body  of  this  letter  relates  entirely  to  proceed- 
ings in  the  dispute  between  Sir  John  Fastolf  and  Sir  Philip  Wentworth  about  the 
wardship  of  Thomas  Fastolf.  The  postscript  alone  relates  to  public  matters.  The 
date  will  appear  by  the  footnotes. 

*  Against  Sir  Philip  Wentworth. 

'  This  sum  was  to  be  paid  by  John  Bocking  and  William  Worcester  for  a  patent 
of  the  wardship  of  Thomas  Fastolf.— ^^^  Letter  347  following. 

*  See  p.  77,  Note  5. 

102 


HENRY  VI 

for  a  supersedies  \jic\  there  lithe  noon,  as  he  seith,  up  on  a    1456 
liberate.  °<^-  * 

And  as  for  entryng  in  Bradwell,  thei  doo  opyn  wronge,  for 
after  myn  patent  opteyned,  there  was  a  writte  to  sease  it  into 
the  Kynges  hande,  and  soo  it  was  and  is.  And  as  to  your 
patent,  it  is  counsailled  me  to  have  a  writte  to  th'eschetor  de 
custodia  liheranda^  whiche  may  not  be  denyed.  And  if  we 
myght  have  una  cum  exitibus  a  tempore  mortis ^  it  were  a  sove- 
reigne  writte.  It  shalbe  assaied,  and  doo  thertoo  what  can 
lete;  the  fermours  be  promised  to  be  saved  harmeles  and 
chargid  not  to  paie  ony  thing  to  them. 

And  as  for  the  iiij^'Vi.  \_fourscore  pounds]  to  be  sette  on 
Olivere  is  taile,  I  can  not  see  it  wole  be,  for  there  is  noo  suche 
worlde  to  bringe  it  abowte.  It  is  faire,  and  we  can  ghete  it 
on  Fulthorp  is  dette  by  grete  labor  for  agrement,  for  I  drede 
it  wole  be  moste  agayn  us  that  it  is  of  recorde  soo  longe 
unpaied.  And  Hue  at  Fenn  sueth  now  to  Nailer  to  ghete 
owte  moo  liberates^  suche  as  the  last  were  to  the  last  eschetor. 
And  this  God  graunte  thei  take  good  spede. 

And  as  to  your  isseus,  I  shal  accordyng  to  your  lettre 
speke  with  Gresham  whanne  he  cometh,  and  the  Juges  and 
Barons  bothe  shalbe  enformed  of  the  title  of  Wentworthe,  as 
ye  write,  and  how  it  is  up  on  a  feyned  dede  upon  surrender, 
and  a  patent  cancelled,  &c.,  which  Fenn  hath  promisid  to  doo. 

And  as  to  Sir  Thomas  matier,  I  write  un  to  yow  and  hym 
joinctly  what  hathe  be  doon  therinne  at  this  tyme.  And  Jesu 
have  yow  in  kepyng. 

Writen  at  Suthwerk,  the  viij.  day  of  Octobre. 

As  to  tidinges,  the  Kyng  and  the  Quene  ar  at  Coventre.^ 
The  Counsail  be  ganne  there  yesterday,  and  my  Lord 
Shrewyshbury,^  Tresorier  of  England,  and  John  Wode  shalb 
[shall  be]  Under-Tresorer.     Thus  thei  say  in  the  Chequer. 

Your  owen,  >  J.  B. 

1  The  Privy  Seal  dates  show  the  King  to  have  been  at  Coventry  between  the  20th 
September  and  the  14th  October  1456. 

'  John  Talbot,  second  Earl  of  Shrewsbury,  was  appointed  Treasurer  on  the  5th 
October  i^$6.— Patent  Roll,  35  Hen.  vi.,  p.  i,  m.  16. 

103 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


346 

BOTONER  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

^0  my  Maister  Paston. 

I456(?)  I  JLEASE  yow  to  wete  that  I  hafe  remembred  of  the  lan- 
ocT.  1 2  V^  gage  that  I  hafe  late  lerned  W,  Barker  had  to  yow  and 
othyrs  of  his  accomptes  apposyng,-  and  of  that  they  be 
not  hole  bethyn  [between]  ws,  but  yn  division,  &c.  Sir,  as  I 
may  sey  yow,  hyt  was  nevere  othyrwyse,  ne  nevere  ys  lyke  to 
be ;  for  now  they  hafe  do  with  Lowys,  he  that  ys  next  shall 
be  yn  the  same  as  he  was  yn  gelosye ;  for  when  my  maister 
comaundyth  such  as  of  force,  by  reson  of  her  occupacion, 
most  be  nere  hym,  to  do  a  message  to  hys  felow,  or  question 
of  hym,  hyt  shall  be  ymagyned  amonges  our  felyshyp  that  he 
doth  make  maters  to  my  maister.     And  so  it  ys  ymagyned  of 

-me  when  I  wryte  lettres  to  London,  to  Bokkyng  or  Barker, 
that  yn  such  maters  as  please  hem  not,  then  it  ys  my  doyng ; 
yfF  it  take  well  to  theyr  entent,  then  it  ys  her  [their]  doyng.' 
And  yn  gode  feyth,  so  it  was  ymagyned  of  me  and  othyrs  that 
wrote,  by  my  maister  comaundment,  to  Castre,  to  the  parson 

-of  Blofeld,  GefFrey  Spyrlyng,  and  othyrs,  that  of  such  maters 
as  was  lykyng  to  hem  and  coude  be  sped  by  help  of  my 
maister  frendes  as  by  theyr  solicytyng,  then  it  was  seyd  that 
it  was  theyr  avice,  labour,  and  doyng.  And  yff  the  maters 
went  not  to  my  maister  entent,  ne  that  they  coude  not  bryng 
aboute  the  mater,  then  it  was  imagyned  and  jangled  that  it 
was  my  wrytyng  and  doyng.  I  bare  nevere  my  maister  purs, 
ne  condyt  nevere  chargeable  mater  alone  of  hys  yn  lawe,  for 

-4Tiy  discrecion  ne  connyng  know  not  whate  such  maters  menyth. 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  The  date  of  this  letter  is  uncertain,  but  must  be 
between  the  years  1454  and  1459,  when  Botoner  was  at  Caister.  Booking  and  Barker 
seem  to  have  been  in  London  at  the  time,  which  we  know  was  the  case  in  February 
1456  ;  and  as  we  have  evidence  that  Bocking  at  least  was  still  there  in  October,  we 
may  perhaps  attribute  this  letter  to  the  October  of  1456. 

'  The  apposing  of  accounts  was  the  charging  of  an  accountant  with  the  balance 
due  by  him  to  his  employer. 

104 


HENRY  VI 

I   knew   nevere   of  oyer  ne  terminer y   ne  rad   nevere    patent  I456(?) 
before,    ne   my    malster    knew   nevere   the   condyt   of    such   ocr*  i* 
thynges ;  and  when  he  wrote  of  hys  grevonse  to  hys  frendys, 
he  commaunded  no  man  to  be  endyted,  for  he  wyst  not  whate 
belonged  to  such  thynges,  ne  the  parson  neyther,  but  remitted 

-  it  to  his  councell  lerned.  There  was  no  man  gretter  at  hert 
with  hym,  as  Andreus  wyth  Heydon,  because  of  castyng 
Bradwell  and  Tychewell  yn  the  Kynges  handes,  and  toke 
awey  the  waarde.  And  I  came  nevere  at  the  oyer  and  terminer. 
By  God,  my  maister  lost  c.  marc  by  a  seute  of  Margyt 
Bryg  upon  a  defence  of  atteynt,  because  a  quest  passed  ayenst 
hyr  of  xij.  peny worth  lond  by  yeer ;  and  I  dar  sey  and  prefe 
it,  my  maister  never  spake  of  hyr,  ne  knew  hyr  not,  ne  wrote 
to  sew  hyr  at  the  oyer  and  terminer^  as  I  am  remembred. 
Yhyt  yt  was  well  deffended,  at  my  maister  grete  cost  and 

-labour,  and  myne  pore  labour  also.  Yhyt  ought  not  I,  ne 
none  such  yn  my  stede,  beer  the  wyte  [biame'\  wyth  Sir 
Thomas,  ne  none  othyr;  he  that  takyth  the  toUe  most  take 
the  charge,  hyt  ys  hys  negligence  that  wille  take  the  labour 
more  then  he  may  awey.  I  wold  the  parson  ys  wellfare 
asmoch  as  man  lyvyng,  to  my  wreched  power;  and  yfF,  or 
when,  ye  hyre  onye  froward  ymagynacions,  I  pray  yow  gefe 
no  credence  tille  ye  hyre  it  aunsuerd.  I  am  eased  of  my 
spyrytes  now  that  I  hafe  expressed  my  leude  [ignoranti 
menyng,  because  of  my  felow  Barker,  as  of  such  othyr 
berkers  ayenst  the  mone,  to  make  wysemen  laugh  at  her 
foyle.     Our  Lord  kepe  yow. 

Wryt  at  Castre  the  xij.  day  of  October. 

Your  W.    BOTONER. 

I  hafe  and  do  purchasse  malgre  to  remembre  of  evidenses 
lakkyng  by  negligence,  &c.  And  therfor  I  most  be  muet  and 
sufFre  gretter  losses  but  [unless]  it  be  othyrwyse  concydcred. 
-I  sende  yow  the  copie  of  your  patentes,^  in  parchement,  and  I 
hafe  remembred  as  well  as  I  can  both  the  stuard  and  Bertilmeu 
Elys  for  execucion  ayenst  the  pleggs  of  your  seyntuarye,  car- 

. '  Probably  the  patent  of  6th  June  1454,  granting  the  wardship  of  Thomas  Fastolf  to 
John  Paston  and  Thomas  Howes. — See  No.  248  (in  vol.  ii.),  also  the  letter  following. 

105 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

145^(0  penter  (?)  Snow,  that  evere  ys  disposed  to  breke  promysses. 
OCT.  12  -Foryefe  me  of  my  leude  lettre  wrytyng,  and  I  pray  yow  laugh 
at  it. 


347 

SIR  THOMAS  HOWES  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

'To  my  right  goo de  maister^  John  Paston. 

1456     T)  EVERENT  Sir,  &c.     Please  yow  to  wete  that  it  [is]  so 
or        fV       that  my  maister,  of  his  owen  frowardness,  and  of  non 

I4|'7  other  mannys  mevyng,  hat  sent  a  warent  to  Cristefor- 

that  he  shuld  delyver  me  no  mony  tyll  the  iiij""//.  [^fourscore 
pounds']  where  payed  for  Bokkyng  and  Wurcestre  patent;* 
and  yf  the  seyd  Cristefore  delyvered  me  any  mony,  that  he 
shuld  take  a  sewerte  of  me  therfor,  nowthwithstandyng  my 
maister  preyed  me  that  I  shuld  reherce  alle  thynge  in  my 
name,  where  of  I  held  me  content.  And  now  I  fele  this 
traytour  wrytyng  under  nethe,  and  I  nowth  prevy  ther  to,  at 
my  comyng  owt  causet  me  to  thynk  the  more  hevynes,  &c. 
Nevertheles,  I  prey  yow  that  a  mene  may  be  taken  of  trety  by 
the  mene  of  Clopton  or  EUys.  Sende  me  word,  and  I  shal 
seke  menys  of  trety,  for,  be  God,  I  shal  trust  no  more  no 
fayre  wordes;  and  there  to  I  shall  lete  alle  the  Lords  of  this 
lond  knowe  what  wrytyngs  I  have,  and  his  disposicion.  Save 
yowre  reverens,  Cristyfor  sal  (.'')  have  swyche  a  maister,  &c. 
I  prey  yow,  as  ever  I  may  do  yow  service  or  be  yowre  bede- 

1  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  is  dated  by  the  writer  in  the  35th  year  of 
Henry  vi.,  but  he  does  not  say  in  what  month  it  was  written.  The  3Sth  of  Henry  vi. 
was  reckoned  from  the  ist  September  1456  to  the  31st  August  1457.  Taken  in  con- 
nection with  the  postscript  of  Botoner's  letter  immediately  preceding  (the  date  of 
which  letter  this  partly  confirms),  it  is  not  unlikely  that  this  was  written  about  October. 
Perhaps  *  Wednesday  after  messe '  should  have  been  '  Wednesday  after  Michaelmesse.' 
If  so,  the  exact  date  would  be  October  6th. 

*  The  wardship  of  Thomas  Fastolf  was  at  first  granted  to  John  Paston  and 
Thomas  Howes,  by  patent  of  the  6th  June  1454,  and  for  this  they  agreed  to  pay  100 
marks  into  the  Exchequer.  But,  for  some  reason  or  other,  a  new  arrangement  was 
made,  and  the  wardship  was  granted  by  another  patent,  dated  12th  December  1454, 
to  John  Bokkyng  and  William  Worcestre,  who  offered  the  King  20  marks  over  what 
Paston  had  offered,  i.e,  £So  in  all. — See  Patent  Roll,  33  Hen.  vi.,  p.  i,  m.  10. 

106 


HENRY  VI 

man  that  ye  wele  sende  me  yowre  avise.     I  had  lever  paye    1456 
XX.  marke,  or  x//.  in  hande  and  x/r.  yerely  furthe,  with  myn       or 
enemyndz  good  love,  than  to  yelde  me  to  prcson  ayens  here     1457 
entent,  and  sewe  forth  the  tyncte.     And  no  trost  what  my 
maister  wele  do,  for  I  can  right  evele  beleve  that  he  wele  here 
owt  the  cost  of  the  tyncte  whan  he  maket  straunge  to  ley 
dowun  the  condempnacion,  &c. 

Wretyn  brevely  at  Horseydown  the  Wenesday  after 
messe,  anno  xxxv'°-  T.  Howys. 

I  shal  nowt  leve  this  mater  to  serve  the  most  enemy 
that  he  hat  in  Inglond.  I  wele  non  of  his  good.  I  have 
lever  other  men  go  to  the  Dille  IDevi/^]  for  his  good 
than  I  do. 


348 

JAMES  GRESHAM  TO  JOHN  PASTONi 

To  the  right  worship  full  and  myn  especiall  maister,  John 
Paston,  Esquyer,  in  hast  be  this  delivered. 

AFTER  al  due  recomendacion,  like  it  you  to  wete,  that     145^ 
the  day  of  your  assise  is  die  Luna  proximo  post  tres   '^'^'  ^^ 
septimanas  Sancti  Michaelis,  whiche  is  on   Moneday 
come  vij.  nyght ;  at  whiche  tyme  I  trost  ye  wole  be  here,  or 
ellis  can  I  do  lytell  or  nought  there  inne. 

As  touchyng  your  mater  ageynst  Gunnore,  that  dwelleth 
in  lawe,  I  have  spoken  to  Lyttelton,^  and  comuned  with  hym 
there  in,  but  it  is  not  yet  spoke  of  atte  barre.  Gunnore 
hath  waged  his  lawe '  of  that  he  haade  his  day  to  wage  it 
of,  &c. 

*  [From  Fenn,  i.  24,]  This  letter  is  assigned  by  Fenn  to  the  year  1449,  but  the 
true  date  is  1456,  as  will  be  seen  by  the  footnotes. 

'  See  p.  84,  Note  5. 

3  Wager  of  law  was  an  ancient  process  by  which  a  defendant  cleared  himself  in  an 
action  of  debt.  He  gave  sureties  that  on  a  certain  day  he  would  *  make  his  law,' 
then  took  oath  that  he  did  not  owe  the  plaintiff  anything,  as  alleged,  and  called 
eleven  compurgators  to  swear  they  believed  him. 

107 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1456  As  touchyng  your  issues  at  Wentworth  sute,  it  is  ijj.,  and 

OCT.  16  it  was  retourned  er  I  come  here.  My  Maister  Fastolfs 
councel  taketh  heed  thereto,  &c. 

As  for  tydynges,  my  Lord  Chaunceler  ^  is  discharged.  In 
his  stede  is  my  Lord  of  Wynchestre.'^  And  my  Lord  of 
Shrewisbury  ^  is  Tresorer,  and  Broun  ^  of  your  Inn  is  Under- 
tresorer.  If  ye  wold  sende  to  hym  to  graunte  you  the  namyng 
of  th'eschetorship  of  NorfFolk,  &c.,  it  were  weel  do,  for  it  is 
told  me  he  wold  do  moche  for  you. 

Maister  Lawrence  Bothe  ^  is  Prive  Seall.  And  it  is  seid 
that  my  Lord  of  York^  hath  be  with  the  Kyng,  and  is 
departed  ageyn  in  right  good  conceyt  with  the  Kyng,  but 
not  in  gret  conceyt  with  the  Whene  [^^een]  ;  and  sum  men 
sey,  ne  hadde  my  Lord  of  Buks  ^  not  have  letted  it,  my  Lord 
of  York  had  be  distressed  in  his  departyng. 

On  Moneday  last  passed  was  a  gret  affray  at  Coventre 
bytwene  the  Duke  of  Somersets  men  and  the  wechemen 
[watchmen]  of  the  toun,  and  ij.  or  iij.  men  of  the  toun  were 
kylled  there,  to  gret  disturbance  of  alle  the  Lords  there  ;  for 
the  larom  belle  was  ronge,  and  the  toun  arose,  and  wold  have 
jouperdit  to  have  distressed  the  Duke  of  Somerset,  &c.,  ne 
had  the  Duke  of  Buks  not  have  take  a  direccion  therein. 

Also  it  is  seid  the  Duke  of  Buks  taketh  right  straungely 
that  bothe  his  brethren  *  arn  so  sodeynly  discharged  from  ther 
offices  of  Chauncellerie  and  Tresoryship  ;  and  that  among 
other  causeth  hym  that  his  opynyon  is  contrary  to  the  Whenes 
[^eens]  entent,  and  many  other  also,  as  it  is  talked.  Item, 
sum  men  seyn,  the  counseal  is  dissolved,  and  that  the  Kyng 

'  Thomas  Bourchier,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  afterwards  Cardinal. 

^  William  Waynflete,  Bishop  or  Winchester,  was  appointed  Chancellor  in  Arch- 
bishop Bourchier's  place  on  the  i  ith  October  1456. 

3  John  Talbot,  second  Earl.  He  was  appointed  Treasurer  on  5th  October  1456. 
— Patent  Roll,  35  Hen.  vi.,  p,  1,  m.  16. 

*  John  Brown. — See  William  Wyrcestre's  Annals  under  the  year  1468. 
'•  Afterwards  Bishop  of  Durham,  and  finally  Archbishop  of  York. 

*  Richard,  Duke  of  York. 

^  Humphrey  Stafford,  Duke  of  Buckingham. 

*  The  two  Bourchiers,  viz.  Thomas  Bourchier,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and 
Henry,  Viscount  Bourchier,  the  former  of  whom  had  been  Lord  Chancellor  and  the 
latter  Lord  Treasurer  (see  Notes  i,  2,  and  3  above),  were  the  Duke  of  Buckingham's 
half-brothers  by  the  mother's  side. 

108 


I 


HENRY  VI 

is  forth  to  Chester,^  &c.     Also  summe  sey  that  many  of  the    1456 
Lords  shall  resorte  hiddir  to  London  agcynst  Alhalwen  tyde.       oct.  16 

And  as  touchyng  th'eleccion  of  Shirefs,  men  wene  that  my 
Lord  of  Canterbury  shall  have  a  gret  rule,  and  specyall  in  our 
countre. 

I  can  no  more,  but  Almyghty  God  send  us  as  his  most 
pleaser  is. 

Wretyn  al  in  hast,  the  Saterday  next  after  Seint  Edwards 
day. 

Your  Servaunt,  James  Gresham. 


349 

ABSTRACT  2 
Sir  John  Fastolf  to  John  Paston. 

Begs  him  in  the  end  of  the  term  to  come  home  by  Dedham,  along  with  nov.  10 
William  Worcester  and  Barker,  to  see  to  the  accounts  of  barley  and  such 
husbandry  as  is  used  there.  As  to  Wighton  in  Yorkshire,  Bokkyng  reminds 
me  you  spoke  to  me  that  my  son  Scrope  and  his  father-in-law  ^  should  have  all 
the  lyvelode  of  my  wife's  in  farm,  to  which  I  agreed,  or  else  that  Lord  Vesey 
would  have  Wighton,  as  he  once  had,  at  a  rent  of  ^34 — much  more  than  I 
make  it  worth  yearly.  Do  as  you  think  best  for  me.  I  had  rather  my  son 
Scrope  had  it  with  sufficient  surety. 

Castre,  10  Nov. 

Begs  him  to  common  with  William  Worcester  that  by  means  of  my  Lord 
of  Canterbury,  or  otherwise,  Master  William  Clyf  and  others  of  the  executors 
of  John  Wellis  may  be  spoken  to  for  the  recovery  of  great  good  that  William 
Worcester  knows  Wellis  owed  to  Fastolf. 

[The  date  of  this  letter  appears  to  be  1456.  Of  the  years  when  Fastolf  resided  at 
Caister,  it  is  not  1454,  because  in  that  year  Barker  could  not  have  been  in  London  on 
the  loth  November  {see  No.  265).  It  is  not  1455,  because  Worcester  appears  to 
have  been  at  that  time  at  Caister  (/^^  Nos.  305  and  306).  The  same  appears  to  have 
been  the  case  in  1457,  though  we  can  only  judge  by  a  letter  of  the  29th  October; 
and  although  Worcester  certainly  was  in  London  in  November  1458,  Sir  John  Fastolf 
was  then  in  London  with  him.] 


1  The  Court  had  been  staying  at  Coventry. 

'  [From  MS.  Phiilipps,  9735,  No.  241.] 

'  Richard  Bingham,  Judge  of  the  King's  Bench. 


109 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


3SO 

ABSTRACT  i 

Sir  John  Fastolf  to  John  Paston  at  the  Temple. 

I4.c6  Received  certain  letters  by  Henry  Hanson  on  Thursday  last,  including  one 

NOV  I  c  ^'^°'"  William  Barker  written  in  Lukett's  hand,  and  two  bills  of  supplication, 
one  of  which,  in  the  name  of  the  tenants  of  Cotton,  he  has  sent  to  Paston,  as 
he  has  already  written.  John  Russe  and  Geoff.  Spyrlyng  have  ridden  to 
Cotton  in  consequence,  and  will  inform  Paston  how  they  speed.  Thinks  the 
bill  *  right  good  and  well  spoken  according  to  the  truth  of  their  riotous  demean- 
ing.' Received  at  the  same  time  a  bill  written  in  his  own  name,  of  which  he 
approves.  Hears  that  young  Henry  Wentworth,  young  Calthorpe,  and  young 
Brews  were  at  the  distress-taking,  among  others.  Has  perfect  confidence  in 
Paston  as  to  the  treaty,  and  hopes  to  obtain  again  the  manor  of  Bradwell  by 
some  means,  as  clear  as  he  had  it  before  his  unhappy  release.  Hears  that  the 
Chief  Justice  '  rectid  the  matter '  in  Parliament  before  the  Lords,  and  showed 
how  Fastolf  was  wronged  in  that  it  was  untruly  found  by  the  office  that  he  had 
disseised  Sir  Hue  Fastolf  of  the  manor,  whereas  he  has  documents  proving  a 
true  sale.  My  Lady  of  York  has  been  here,  *  and  sore  moved  me  for  the 
purchase  of  Castre.'  Begs  him  to  devise  means  for  the  licence  of  mortising  of 
certain  buildings  for  the  foundation  of  a  college,  '  as  ye  and  I  have  commoned 
of  before.'  William  Worcester  can  show  him  a  copy  of  one  passed  by  the 
King,  and  signed  ready  to  the  late  Chancellor  Stafford.  Desires  him  to  make 
himself  acquainted  with  two  chaplains  about  my  Lord  of  Canterbury  and  my 
Lord  Chancellor.  William  Barker  writes  of  a  general  treaty,  to  which  he  can 
make  no  answer  further  than  he  has  already  done  to  Yelverton  and  Paston. 
Castre,  Monday  after  St.  Martin. 

[In  this  letter,  as  in  the  last,  we  have  Worcester  and  Barker  both  in  London, 
which,  we  have  seen,  points  to  the  year  1456.  It  is  clear  also  that  this  letter  was 
written  just  before  that  which  follows.] 


1  [From  MS.  Phillipps,  9735,  No.  259.] 


no 


HENRY  VI 

SIR  JOHN  FASTOLF  TO  JOHN  PASTONi 

To  the  worshipful  and  my  right  welbeloved  cosyn^  John  Paston^  at 
the  'Tempky  or  to  William  Barker^  at  Suthwerk^  he  this 
delvered. 

WORSHIPFUL  cosyn,  I  comaunde  me  to  yow.  And  1456 
where  as  I  late  wrote  unto  yow  in  a  lettre  by  ^'ov.  18 
Henre  Hansson  for  the  fundacion  of  my  college, 
I  am  soore  sette  therupon  ;  and  that  is  the  cause  I  write  now, 
to  remembre  yow  agayn  to  meve  my  Lords  of  Canterbury^ 
and  Wynchestre^  for  the  licence  to  be  opteined,  that  I  might 
have  the  morteisying  withowte  ony  grete  fyne,  in  recompence 
of  my  longe  servise  contynued  and  doon  un  to  the  Kyng,  and 
to  his  noble  fader,  whom  God  assoile,  and  nevere  yette 
guerdoonned  or  rewarded. 

And  now  sithe  I  have  ordeyned  to  make  the  Kyng 
founder,  and  evere  to  be  prayed  fore,  and  for  his  right  noble 
progenitors,  hise  fader,  and  uncles,  me  thinketh  I  shuld  not 
be  denyed  of  my  desire,  but  the  rather  to  be  remembrid  and 
spedde. 

Wherfore,  as  I  wrote  un  to  yow,  I  pray  yow  acqueynte 

1  [From  Fenn,  i.  1 64.]  This  letter,  as  printed  by  Fenn,  bears  no  date  in  itself, 
but  in  the  editorial  note  at  the  foot  it  is  dated:  *  Caister,  18th  of  November.' 
Probably  this  date  is  expressed  in  the  original,  but  has  been  accidentally  omitted  in 
the  printing.  If  so,  the  year  in  which  it  was  written  must  be  either  1456  or  1457, 
and  most  probably  the  former.  In  1455  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury  and  my  Lord 
Chancellor  were  one  and  the  same  person,  which  they  evidently  are  not  here ;  and  in 
1458  it  appears  by  the  Castlecombe  Mss.  that  Sir  John  Fastolf  was  in  London  on  the 
26th  November,  so  that  he  is  not  likely  to  have  been  expecting  a  visit  frorti  the  Duke 
of  Norfolk  at  Caister  eight  days  before.  On  the  other  hand,  if  this  was  written  in 
the  year  1456,  it  must  be  remembered  that  Archbishop  Bourchier  had  been  just 
recently  discharged  of  the  office  of  Lord  Chancellor,  which  was  given  to  Bishop 
Waynfleet  on  the  nth  October,  and  it  is  highly  probable  that  the  Archbishop  had 
been  already  spoken  to  on  the  subject  in  his  capacity  of  Chancellor. 

'  Thomas  Bourchier,  Archbishop. 

•  William  Waynfleet,  Bishop. 

Ill 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1456  me  and  yow,  for  the  rather  spede  here  of,  with  a  chapelleyn 
iov.  18  of  my  Lord  of  Caunterbury,  that  in  your  absence  may  re- 
membre  me,  and  in  like  wise  with  my  Lord  Chaunceller  ;  ^ 
for  seyng  the  Kyngs  disposicion,  and  also  hise,  un  to  the 
edyfyeng  of  God  is  service,  it  myght  in  noo  bcttyr  tyme  be 
mevid,  &c. 

My  Lord  of  NorfFolk  is  remevid  from  Framlyngham  on 
foote  to  goo  to  Walsyngham,^  and  deily  I  wayte  that  he  wolde 
come  hidre. 

Your  cosyn, 

J.  Fastolf. 


352 

ABSTRACT  3 

Proceedings  in  a  Suit  in  Michaelmas  Term,  35  Hen.  vi. 

NOV.  I.  Writ  to  the  Sheriff  of  Suffolk  to  attach  John  Andrewe  of  Boylom,  and 

bring  him  before  the  Barons  of  the  Exchequer  on  the  morrow  of  All  Souls  to 
answer,  along  with  Sir  Philip  Wentworth  and  Thos.  Deyvill  of  Netlestede,  to 
the  suit  of  John  Paston  and  Thomas  Howys. 

II.  Pleadings.  The  King  committed  the  wardship  of  Thomas,  son  and 
heir  of  John  Fastolf  of  Cowhawe,  to  Paston  and  Howes  by  patent,  6th  June 
32  Hen.  VI. ;  but  on  the  8th  June  32  Hen.  vi.,  Andrewe  and  Deyvill,  with 
force  and  arms,  entered  Sholond  Hall,  Suffolk,  and  Foxhole,  and  Bentley 
Houses,  etc.,  and  took  rents  to  the  sum  of  ;^36o,  and  underwood  to  the  value 
of  j^40.  Imparlance  granted  till  26th  Nov.,  when  the  parties  were  not  agreed. 
Ventre  Jacias  was  then  awarded  a  die  Sancti  Helarii  in  xv.  dies. 


1  William  Waynfleet,  the  Bishop  of  Winchester  before  mentioned. 
*  On  pilgrimage  to  the  famous  shrine  of  Our  Lady  at  Waisingham. 
3  [Acid.  Charter  17,244,  B.M.] 


112 


HENRY  VI 

353 

JOHN  DORY  TO  JOHN  P ASTON  i 

To  my  ryth  wurchepfull  sovereyn  and  master^  John  Paston^ 
be  this  delyveryd  in  hast. 

RYTH  wurshepfuU  master  and  sovereyn,  I  recomaunde  About 
me  to  you,  besechyng  you  to  pardon  me  that  I  I456(?) 
cum  not  to  awayte  up  on  you  like  as  Barkere  wrote 
to  me.  For  I  have  notable  and  grete  causis  syth  the  lettere 
cam  from  hym,  the  qweche  hath  chaungyd  my  purpos,  and 
be  my  master  the  Schreve  is  wrytyng,  on  to  weche  I  must 
aplie  me,  all  excusis  leyd  apart.  And  as  for  the  wrytyng 
Barkere  wrote  to  me,  be  the  qweche  he  directyth  a  gret  default 
in  my  deputys  for  return  of  the  habeas  corpus  with  ducens  tecum^ 
ther  as  is  none,  I  dar  seye,  for  John  Rede  spek  to  all  my 
master  Fastolfs  councell  to  advyse  hym  in  the  return,  and  to 
have  returnyd  hit  after  ther  conceyt,  and  thei  wuld  gyf  hym 
non  advys.  Nevertheles  I  now  understande  ther  entent  be 
Barkere  is  wrytyng  ;  for  thei  wuld  put  alle  juparte  up  on  mc 
to  myn  utter  ondoyng,  and  yit  to  do  my  trewe  part  in  execu-  . 
cion  of  ther  entent,  for  ye  knowell  my  master  hath  put  the 
juparte  and  the  losse,  if  any  growe,  to  me  on  his  part.  And 
ther  for  I  may  repent  the  tyme  that  ever  I  promysyd  my  trewe 
and  good  wyll  to  that  entent.  For  alle  the  malesse  and  evyl- 
will  that  is  owyng  to  me  in  alle  the  Schere  ys  for  that  mater 
and  non  other,  the  qweche  hath  grettely  hurt  me,  and  in  tyme 
comyng  schall  hurt  more.  But  lete  them  hold  me  excusyd, 
thei  schall  not  have  my  goodwill  so  feythfully  as  thei  have 
had,  be  my  troweth,  and  I  schall  helpe  my  sefl  [sic]  as  I  may. 
And,  Sire,  I  be  seche  you,  thynke  not  that  I  pyke  this  be 
waye  of  qwarell,  that  I  myth  be  this  querell  owe  my  good 
wyll  to  the  toder  part,  for  thei  schall  never  have  yt  in  that 

*  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  170.]  The  name  of  Dory  occurs  only  once  elsewhere  in 
thete  letters,  and  then  without  a  Christian  name ;  but  the  person  so  referred  to  (at 
the  end  of  No.  330)  is  probably  the  under-sheriff  of  Norfolk  j  and  this  letter,  which 
is  likewise  concerned  with  Fastolfs  business,  may  have  been  written  about  the  same 
period. 

VOL.  III. H  ,  113 


APRIL  2 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

About  mater,  nor  in  non  other.     And  for  good  the  qweche  I  have 

I456(?)receyvyd  yfFbe  thowth  I  have  not  deservyd  yt  I  am  abill  to 

content  yt  a  geyn.      And  on  Friday  nexst  foluwyng  I  schall 

be  with  you  atte  Norwich  be  Goddys  grace,  and  knowe  your 

entent  in  this  mater. 

No  more,  &c.,  but  &c. — Be  your  man  and  servaunt, 

John  Dory  under  Schreve  of  NorfFolk. 

354 

JOHN  BOOKING  TO  JOHN  PASTON  * 

^457C-)  ^^IRE,  lyke  it  your  maistership  to  wete  that  I  sende  you 
^N  -at  this  tyme  the  rolle  of  the  copies  of  all  patentes,  and 
^^  the  appoyntement  with  Wentworth  laste,  and  also  a 
abstracte  drawen  as  it  come  simply  to  my  remembrance.  And 
I  shalbe  with  you  sumtyme  the  next  weke.  All  men  ar  owte 
at  this  tyme,  as  the  Parson,^  Worcester,  and  Barker  ;  and 
therfore  til  thei  come,  I  may  not  owte.  H.  Wyndesor 
departid  on  Monday,  and  will  doo  that  he  can.  He  telleth 
me  Lumleys  patent  is  in  his  awarde,  but  it  is  of  noo  force. 
And  also  he  hathe  Constable  is  ij.  [secom/?^  patente,  and  that 
is  moste  ayenst  us,  &c.  He  wil  purveie  therfore  as  ye  knowe 
myn  maister  ^  comaundit  hym  to  yow. 

Here  hath  ben  Wilton  with  the  dede  of  feffement  yester- 
day, and  all  men  hadde  ensealed  sauf  myn  maister  that  now 
hathe  ensealed,  and  H.  Inglose  is  right  soory.  I  can  no  newe 
tidinges,  but  that  myn  maister  hath  put  his  matier  of  Issabells 
in  Scroudeby,  and  the  rente  of  the  priour  of  Norwiche  dieu  to 
Heilesdon  in  your  hande  and  Thomas  Grene.  Ye  shal  the 
next  weke  have  the  evidences.  And  Jesu  kepe  you  and 
youres. 

*  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  The  date  of  this  letter  is  verj'  uncertain.  In  1456 
the  writer  dates  from  Southwark  on  the  8th  of  May,  and  in  1458  from  London  on  the 
14th  of  March,  so  that  there  is  rather  a  presumption  against  his  being  at  Caister  on 
the  2nd  of  April  in  either  of  these  years.  But  these  points,  it  must  be  owned,  arc 
little  to  be  relied  on,  as  Bokking  certainly  passed  to  and  fro  a  good  deal  betweea 
London  and  Norfolk.  The  date  must,  however,  be  between  1455  and  1459.  The 
letter  has  no  address,  but  was  doubtless  intended  for  John  Paston. 

'  Thomas  Howes.  '  Sir  John  Fastolf. 

114 


HENRY  VI 

I  sende  myn  Malstres  Crane  a  lettre  fro  hir  brother,  but  I  I457(?) 
have  the  credence,  whiche  I  can  not  say  but  if  she  appose  me   ^"^•''  * 
for  certein  materes  of  hir  brotheres. 

Writen  at  Castre,  the  ij.  day  of  Aprill. 

Your  owen  servaunt,  J.  B. 


355 

BOTONER  TO  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 

To  my  Maister  Paston. 

PLEASE  you  to  wete  that,  after  dew  recommendacion,     1457 
hyt  yt  so  that  my  maister  sendyth  me  to  London  for  april  20 
the   mater   of  Rochestr,  as  for  dyvers  of  hys  oune 
particuler  maters  which  concern  not  the  lawe,  &c. ;  and  I  am 
lyke  to  tarye  till  ye  com,  in  case  ye  com  wythynne  iij.  wekys. 

Sir,  at  reverence  of  God,  seth  my  maister  ys  fully  yn  wille 
to  renew  hys  fefment,  that  it  may  be  do  be  tyme  by  the  surest 
grounde  that  may  be  had,  for,  be  it  nevyr  so  suerly  don,  hyt 
shall  be  thought  lytille  ynowgh  to  kepe  hys  lond  owte  of 
trouble;  and  to  spare  for  no  councell  ne  cost  to  make  sure, 
-for  a  peny  yn  seson  spent  wille  safe  a  pounde.  I  comyned 
with  my  broyder  Spyrlyng,  which  seyth  he  wille  do  hys 
attendaunce,  and  to  kepe  it  ryzt  close  of  the  namys.  Taryeng 
drawyth  parell. 

And  ye  meved  a  gode  mater  to  the  Parson  and  to  me  at 
_your  last  beyng  at  Castr,  that  my  maister  shud  be  lerned  whatc 
hys  housold  standyth  uppon  yerlye,  seth  he  kept  it  holye  to 
ghedr  at  one  place ;  and  that  don,  then  to  see  by  the  revenues 
of  hys  yeerly  lyfelode  whate  may  be  leyd  and  assigned  owte 
for  that  cause  to  meynteyn  hys  seyd  housold,  and  over  that, 
whate  may  be  assigned  to  beere  owte  hys  plees,  and  also  do 
pay  for  hys  foreyn  chargs^  and  dedes  of  almes  to  a  con- 
venyent  somme. 

*  [From  Fenn,  iii.  294.]  It  appears  from  the  contents  of  this  letter  that  it  was 
written  two  and  a  half  years  after  Sir  John  Fastolf  came  to  live  in  Norfolk,  which  he 
did  in  the  autumn  of  1454.     The  date  therefore  is  certain. 

'  Charges  not  connected  with  his  household  accounts. — F. 

"5 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1457  And   seth   the   grettist    ordynarye    charge    most   be   hys 

APRIL  20  housold  kepyng,  hyt  were  moste  exspedyent  that  ye  wold  note 
well  to  remembre  specially  my  maister  to  do  hys  audyt[or]es 
cast  up  and  make  rollys  of  hys  accompts  concernyng  the  seyd 
housold  seth  he  came  yn  to  NorfFolk  thys  ij.  yer  and  half, 
whych  was  nevyr  so  long  to  doo  thys  xl.  wynter  as  ye  now. 
And  it  ys  pytee  that  hys  audyt  ys  none  ethyr  wyse  yn  that 
entended;  ye  must  nedys,  yfF  ye  wille  my  maister  know  how 
hyt  stand  with  hym  yerly  of  hys  chargs,  that  thys  be  do  fyrst, 
as  it  was  allwey  accustomed.  My  maister  wille  acord  it  to  be 
don,  but  it  ys  forgete  throwgh  negligence  of  men  yoven  to 
sensualite,  as  Thomas  Upton,  me,  and  othyrs.  My  maister 
can  not  know  wheder  he  go  backward  or  forward  till  thys 
be  doon. 

I  can  not  elles,  but  ye  wille  not  foryete  thys  that  the 
audyt[or]es  go  verraily  aboute  it  to  an  ende.  And  Haylysdon 
accompts  be  behynde  for  ij.  yeer  to  [/<?o]  grete  pite  ys,  and  it 
wer  yours  or  yn  any  wyseman  gouveraunce. 

At  Norwich  hastly,  the  Wenstay  in  Ester  weke. 

BOTO-H.R.-NER. 


356 

BOTONER  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  the  ryght  worshypfull  Sir,  John  Pastorty  Escuier^ 
beyng  in  Norwych,  yn  haste. 

MAY  I     "ipj  YGHT  worshypfull   Sir,  aftyr  dewe  recommendacion, 

f^      please  yow  to  wete  that  I  wrote  a  remembraunce  to 

'^  yow  the  day  that  I  departed  owte  of  Norwich,  by 

Rychard,    the    Parson   ys   servaunt    of    Blofeld,    concernyng 

*  [From  Fenn,  iii.  298.]  That  this  letter  was  written  in  the  year  1457  appears 
pretty  clear  from  its  agreement  with  the  last,  in  which  Botoner  speaks  of  the  expedi- 
ency of  getting  the  accounts  of  Fastolfs  household  audited,  and  mentions  that  his 
master  was  sending  him  up  to  London.  A  further  confirmation  of  the  date  may  be 
found  in  the  dates  of  the  Privy  Seals  of  the  35th  year  of  Henry  vi.,  which  show  that 
the  King  was  at  Hereford  during  April,  though  he  had  removed  to  Worcester  on  the 
4th  of  May. 
116 


HENRY  VI 

certeyn  maters  to  be  remembred  by  your  wysdom  for  my  1457 
maister  ys  avaylle,  whych  your  grete  wysdom  can  well  undre-  may  i 
stand  ys  ryght  nedefuU,  as  one  thyng  yn  especiall,  that  Shyp- 
dam  and  Spyrlyng  ought  to  labour,  fyrst  of  onye  thyng  that 
belongyth,  to  audyt  the  accompts  of  the  resseyt  and  despense 
of  my  maister  housold  at  Castr  seth  he  came  last  in  to  Nor- 
fFolk,  whych  aswell  for  the  provisyons  that  ys  had  of  hys  oune 
grownyng  as  in  money  payd;  for  [till  the  seyd  accompts  be 
made  ordynatlye,  whych  be  of  a  grete  charge  yeerlye,  wete  ye 
for  certeyn  my  maister  shall  nevere  know  whethyr  he  goth 
bakward  or  forward.  And  manye  othere  accomptants  that 
maken  lyvere  of  provysyons  of  cornys  and  catell  to  the  house- 
hold by  the  resseyvour  and  by  the  bayllyfs  can  not  approve- 
theyr  liberatz  just  tille  the  seyd  housold  bokes  be  made  upp ; 
and  seth  it  hath  be  kept  ordynarylye  seth  my  maister  begen  to 
-kepe  house  thys  1.  yeer  almoste,  and  when  he  hath  be  absent 
beyond  see,  &c.,  hyt  ought  to  be  more  redelyer  be  doon  and 
made  upp  whyle  he  is  present,  and  well  the  rathere  that  hys 
housold  menye  were  not  so  hole  to  ghedr  thys  xl.  yer  as  be 
now  at  Castr.  Also  hyz  minustrs  of  accompts  of  hys  chiefF 
maner  of  Haylysdon  for  iij.  yeer  to  make  upp  and  to  examyn ; 
and  I  ensure  yow  full  simplye  approwed  hys  wollys  and  hys 
fermys. 

And  the  iij**  ys  that  so  wold  Jesus  my  maister  audytors 
wold  faythfully  and  playnlye  enforme  my  maistr  of  the  trouth 
of  the  yeerly  grete  damage  he  beryth  in  debursyng  hys  money 
aboute  shyppes  and  botes,  kepyng  an  house  up  at  Jermuch 
ITarmout/i']  to  hys  grete  harme,  and  resseyvyth  but  chaffr  and 
waare  for  hys  cornys  and  wollys,  &c.  and  then  most  abyde 
along  day  to  make  money;  of  such  chaffr  takyng  he  shall 
nevere^  be  monyed,  ne  be  aunsuerd  clerly  of  hys  revenues 
yeerly  but  [unless']  those  thyngs  abofeseyd  be  amended  be 
tyme.  Yn  Lowys  days  xij.  yeer  to,  gheder  my  maistfer  was 
wont  to  ley  upp  money  yeerly  at  London  and  Castr,  and  now 
the  contrarye — de  malo  in  pejus. 

I  dar  not  be  know  of  thys  bille,  but  ye  may  question  and 

*  The  left-hand  copy  in  Fenn  reads  'neide,'  but  the  modem  version  'never,' 
which  is  clearly  the  true  reading. 

117 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1457    vele  of  the  disposicion  of  thys  maters  of  otheres,  and  then 

MAY  I     undrstand  yffl  wryt  justlye  or  no;  and  ye,  as  of  your  mocion 

for  my  maister  worshyp  and  profyt,  exortyng  hym,  the  stuard, 

Shypdam,  and  Spyrlyng  to  take  a  labour  and  a  peyn  that  thys 

be  reformed. 

I  pray  yow,  and  require  yow  kepe  thys  mater  to  your  sylf. 

Yowr,  BOTONER. 


As  for  nouveltes  none  comth/  but  yt  ys  seyd  the  sege 
shall  com  to  Calix.  The  Erie  of  Warwyk^  ys  yhyt  at 
Caunterbury  with  the  Archbyship,^  and  the  Erie  younger 
brothere*  maryed  to  Sir  Eadmund  Yngylthorp  doughter 
uppon  Seynt  Marks  Day.  The  Erie  of  Worcestr^  broght 
aboute  the  maryage.  The  Queen  and  the  Kyng  at  Herford,® 
the  Lordes  Bokyngham,'^  Shrewsbury,®  and  otheres  ther.  And 
now  it  ys  seyd  Herbert  ®  shall  com  ynne,  and  apper  at  Ley- 
cester  before  the  Kyng  and  the  Lordes,  hys  lyfe  graunted  and 
godes,  so  he  make  amendys  to  theym  he  hath  offended.  Manye 
be  endyted,  som  causelese,  which  makyth  Herbert  partye 
streng,  and  the  burgeys  and  gentlemen  aboute  Herford  wille 
goo  wyth  the  Kyng  wyffe  and  chylde,  but  a  pease  be  made  or 
the  Kyng  part  thens,  for  ell[es]  Herbert  and  hys  affinite  wille 
acquyt  them,  as  it  ys  seyd. 

The  Erie  of  Warwyk  hath  had  the  folks  of  Caunter- 
bury and  Sandwych  before  hym,  and  thanked  hem  of  her 
gode  herts  and  vytaillyng  of  Calix,  and  prayeth  hem  of 
contynuaunce. 

I  sende  a  bille  of  the  namys  endyted  to  my  maister  and 

•  So  in  Fenn,  but  qu.  'couth.' — See  p.  41. 
'  Richard  Neville,  Earl  of  Warwick. 

•  Thomas  Bourchier,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury. 

•  John  Neville,  afterwards  Marquis  Montague,  married  Isabel,  daughter  and  heir 
of  Sir  Edmund  Ingoldesthorpe  of  Burgh  Green,  in  Cambridgeshire,  by  his  wife  Jane, 
sister,  and  at  length  co-heir  of  John,  Lord  Tiptoft,  first  Earl  of  Worcester.  He  was 
slain  in  the  battle  of  Bamet  in  1471. 

»  John  Tiptoft.  "  Hereford. 

'  Humphrey  Stafford. 

•  John  Talbot,  second  Earl. 

•  Sir  William  Herbert,  afterwards  Earl  of  Pembroke,  a  steady  Yorkist. 

118 


HENRY  VI 

VOW,  to  see  and  laugh  at  theyr  Wellsh  names  descended  of  old    1457 
pedegris.     Our  Lord  be  witifi  yow.  ^^^  ' 

Wryt  hastly  at  London,  the  fyrst  day  of  May. 

BOTONER. 


357 

SIR  JOHN  FASTOLF  TO  JOHN  PASTON,  ESQUIREi 

To  mytu  ivorshlpjull  cosyriy  John  Pastouy  Squier. 

Ryght  worshipfull  cosyn,  I  recomaunde  me  to  yow,  and  thanke  yow  of  About 
youre  greet  peyn  and  labores  that  ye  daylye  take  for  me  in  alle  mja.  causes,  \Acn 
for  wheche  I  am  greetly  holden  to  yow,  God  yelde  hit  yow.  And,  cosyn,  hit  ^^  ' 
is  so,  as  I  am  enformed,  that  a  fermore  of  myn  maner  in  Saxthorp,  called  John 
Bennes,  shuld  come  be  fore  yow  for  to  appoynte  for  suche  dewte  as  he  oweth  to 
me  upon  his  ferme.  I  sende  to  yow  the  bokes  of  his  accompt  to  th'entent  that 
Spyrlyng  may  awayte  upon  yow  at  his  comyng,  and  declare  hym  his  dewte, 
wheche,  as  myn  receyvore  seyth,  hit  wole  drawe  to  the  summe  of  xlv/r.  [;^45], 
and  more  money  at  Michelmasse  now  next  comyng.  And  the  ferme  is  but 
xx/f.  \_£^o~\  yerly,  by  wheche  ye  may  understande  that  he  hath  hadde  greet 
favore  in  his  payementes  to  his  weel  and  myn  greet  hurt,  as  I  reporte  me  to 
youre  greet  wysdome.  Neverthelesse,  sethe  hit  is  so  that  he  hath  hadde  this 
advayle  upon  me,  I  wold  seen  now  that  suche  dewte  as  shal  ben  dewly  founde 
upon  hym  by  accompt  to  be  made  at  this  day,  that  I  may  ther  of  have  paye- 
ment  in  hande  as  reson  wole,  or  of  as  moche  as  the  day  is  ronne  of;  and  for 
the  resydewe  to  have  greable  sewerte,  that  is  to  sey,  of  xxA.  growen  at  Mihel- 
masse  next  comyng,  to  have  payement  therof  at  the  Festes  of  Seynt  Andrew 
and  the  Annunciacion  of  our  Lady  next  comyng  by  even  porcions,  as  in  his 
endenture  made  of  the  seyd  lees  more  pleynerly  is  conteyned.  And  this  don,  I 
am  content  that  he  goo  at  large,  and  elles  that  Spyrlyng  take  a  rekenyng  of  hym, 
so  as  I  may  be  aunswered  accordyng  to  the  statute,  &c.  And,  cosjrn,  that 
overe  this  ye  lyke  to  yeve  credence  to  the  brynger  her  of  of  that  he  shal 
declare  yow  in  this  be  half  be  mouth.     And  oure  Lord  kepe  yow. 

Wreten  in  hast,  at  myne  manoir  of  Castre,  the  Saterday  next  after  our 
Lady  Day  the  Assumpcion. 

And,  cosyn,  I  praye  yow  that  he  have  none  favore  other  wyse  than  lawe 
wole,  seyng  he  is  so  contraryows  for  any  fayer  promyse  of  his  behalf,  &c. 

Youre  cosyn,  John  Fastolf,  Ch'r. 


1  [From  Fasten  mss.,  B.M.]  This  is  a  letter  of  pure  business,  and  the  date  it 
uncertain ;  but  as  John  Paston  had  been  giving  advice  about  money  matters  and  the 
affairs  of  Fastoifs  household  in  1457,  we  may  insert  it  here. 

119 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


3S8 

ABSTRACT » 

^457  Copy  of  a  charter  granted  by  John  Paston,  [patron?]  of  the  church  of 

OCT.  2      Gresham,  and  Robert  Miller, allowing  the  prior  and  convent 

of  St.  Sepulchre  of  The[tford3  to  distrain  for  a  pension  on  the  vicarage. 
2  Oct.  36  Hen.  vi. 

[This  document  is  mutilated.  In  the  margin  is  the  following  note  in  a  modem 
hand :  'E.  Coll.  Fr.  Blomefield,  Hist.  Norf.  vol.  i.  fo.  436.'] 

359 

ABSTRACT 2 
Sir  John  Fastolf  to  *  my  Brother  '  William  Yelverton,  Justice. 

OCT.  29  Begs  him  to  continue  his   kindness  especially,  now  that  the  Parson,   Sir 

Thomas,  comes  up  to  appear  before  him  and  other  the  King's  judges  *  by  the 
cruel  and  hasty  suit  of  Androus  and  his  affinity.'  Hopes  the  process  sued  by 
him  so  eagerly  *  upon  the  unjust  condemnation  shall  be  reformed  and  holpen  by 
the  attaint  in  chastising  of  perjury  that  reigneth  so  much  now  a  days.'  It  were 
a  blessed  deed  if  it  were  reformed  by  Yelverton.  Desires  credence  for  *  my 
cousin  Paston '  and  Sir  Thomas  in  the  matter. 

{^Signature  not  Fastolf  s  oiunS) 
Castre,  29  Oct. 

[This  letter  is  written  in  William  Worcester's  hand.  The  suit  of  Andrews 
against  Howes  appears  to  have  been  in  1457,  as  it  is  referred  to  afterwards  in  a  writ 
of  the  ist  September  1458,  which  will  be  found  noticed  under  that  date.] 

360 

SIR  JOHN  FASTOLF  TO  STEPHEN  SCROOPE» 

A  Stevyn  Scrope. 

OCT.  30    -^-jr  TORSCHEPEFUL  and  my  right  wel  beloved  Sone, 

Y  V        ^  comaund  me  to  yow,  and  hertily  thank  yow  for 

your   good    avertismentys,  and   right  well  avysed 

lettres  to  me   sent  from  tyme  to  tyme,  and  so  pray  yow  of 

your  good  continuance. 

»  [Add.  Charter  17,245,  B.M.]  '  [From  MS.  Phillipps,  9735,  No.  268.] 

'  [From  Fenn,  iii.  42  j  The  date  of  this  letter  is  clearly  the  same  as  that  of  the 
last,  with  only  a  day's  difference. 

120 


HENRY  VI 

Plese  it  yow  to  wete  that,  for  as  mech  as  the  parson  Sir  1457 
Thomas  Howes  cometh  up  at  this  tyme  by  the  grevous  pur-  oct.  30 
sewte  of  John  Andreus  and  Heydon,  to  apere  be  fore  the  right 
worschepeful  Sir,  my  right  wel  be  loved  brother,  your  fadir,^ 
and  other  the  Kynges  Juges  of  the  Kynges  Benche, — I  pray 
zow  hertily  that  ye  wille  have  in  remembraunce  for  to  recomaund 
me  to  hym  whan  ye  speke  with  hym,  and  for  to  thank  hym  for 
-his  rightful  favour  shewed  in  Sir  Thomas  matier,  and  in  alle 
other  maters  that  toucheth  me,  wheche  ben  attained  in  that  hey 
courte  ;  and  so  it  lyke  yow,  pray  hym  of  his  good  continuance, 
and  I  shall  doo  serve  it  unto  hym  to  my  symple  power  for  his 
good  wyl  to  me  shewed,  and  to  myne  ;  and  I  trust  to  God 
that  he  shal  hold  hym  plesid.  And  that  it  like  yow  to  geve 
credence  to  the  seid  Sir  Thomas  of  that  he  shal  sey  to  zow  for 
my  worschepe  and  profyte,  and  that  this  lettre  may  recomaund 
-me  to  my  doghtir  your  wyf,  be  sechyng  the  blissed  Trinite  to 
sende  yow  the  acomplyshment  of  your  good  desyre. 

Wretyn  at  Castre,  the  xxx.  day  of  Octobr. 

J.F. 

361 

RICHARD,  EARL  OF  SALISBURY,  TO 
VISCOUNT  BEAUMONT  2 

To  the  right  worchipful  and  with  al  myn  hert  rigt  entierly 
welebiloved  Brother^  the  Viscount  Beaumont, 

RIGHT  worshipful,  and,  with  al  myn  hert,  right  entierly  i458(?) 
wele  bilovede  brothre,  I  recomaunde  me  unto  yow.    jan.  24 
And  for  somoche  as  by  the  Kings  moste  noblez  lettrez 
brought  me  late  by  Hagreston,  oon  of  the  gromes  of  his 

1  On  comparing  this  letter  with  the  last,  the  person  here  referred  to  wbuld  seem  to 
be  Justice  Yelverton.  Mr.  Poulett  Scrope,  however,  in  his  privately  printed  History  of 
CastUcombe  (p.  277),  says  it  was  Sir  Richard  Bingham,  whose  daughter  Joan  Stephen 
Scrope  had  by  this  time  married.  It  is  quite  possible  that  Fastolf  sent  a  similar 
message  to  Bingham  by  Scrope,  and  to  Yelverton  by  Paston  and  Howes. 

'  [From  Fenn,  i.  146.]  Fenn  considers  this  letter  to  have  been  called  forth  by  the 
summons  sent  by  the  King  to  the  Lords  of  both  parties  to  come  to  London,  in  the 
beginning  of  1458,  with  a  view  to  a  reconciliation.     On  this  view,  the  excuse  of 

121 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

'45^(0  c^^n^bre,  I  am  desirede  to  come  unto  his  Highnesse  to  Lon- 
jAN.  24  don  ;  wherunto  for  suche  grevous  diseas  and  infirmitees  as  it 
hath  liked  oure  Lord  to  visit  me  with,  wherof  Robert  Danby 
can  at  large  declare  unto  yow,  I  can  ne  mowe  dispose  me, 
without  feynyng,  by  the  trouth  I  owe  unto  the  King,  but  that 
therby  I  doubt  not,  I  shulde  not  rekever,  daies  of  my  lyfe, 
suche  hurt  as,  by  the  reason  of  the  said  diseas,  wolde  grow 
unto  me,  the  which  hath  right  fervently  and  sore  hoi  den  me  in 
many  diversez  bihalvez,  so  that,  sith  my  last  comyng  frome 
London  I  had  not,  by  the  space  of  vj.  daies  togidiez,  my 
helth. 

Wherfore,  brothre,  I  pray  yow,  with  al  myn  hool  hert,  that 
it  like  yow  to  cal  tofore  yow  the  said  Robert  Danby,  and  to 
take  of  him  the  vray  trouth  in  the  premissez,  and  therupon  to 
bee  my  good  and  tendre  moyen,  as  by  your  wysdome  can  best 
bee  thought  convenable,  unto  the  Kinges  goode  grace,  for 
th'excuse  of  my  nown  comyng  ;  prayng  yow  hertly  to  certifye 
me,  by  comers  bitwen,  suche  tidings  as  ye  shal  have  in  thos 
partiez,  with  othre  your  good  pleasir  to  be  perfourmed  at  my 
power,  as  knoweth  oure  Lord,  to  whom  I  biseche  to  ever  have 
yow  in  his  blissed  proteccion  and  keping. 

Wry  ten  at  Shirrifhoton,  the  xxiiij.  day  of  Januare. 

Your  trew  brodir,  wich  prayth  you  hertely  to  excuse 
me  to  the  Kings  Heghnesse. 

R.  Salisbury. 

illness  given  by  Salisbury  is,  of  course,  a  mere  pretence,  and,  moreover,  was  not 
adhered  to,  for  within  a  week  after  it  was  penned  Salisbury  actually  was  in  London 
with  a  company  of  400  horse  and  80  knights  and  squires  (see  Botoner's  letter  of  the 
ist  February).  This  sudden  change  of  tactics  on  the  part  of  the  Earl  seems  to  me 
hardly  probable,  and  I  see  no  reason  why  the  letter  should  not  refer  to  a  genuine  ill- 
ness upon  a  different  occasion.  Nevertheless,  as  there  is  no  positive  evidence  on  the 
subject,  I  leave  the  date  suggested  by  Fenn,  with  a  query,  on  which  the  reader  may 
use  his  own  judgment. 


122 


HENRY  VI 

362 

AGNES  PASTONi 

Brands  to  London  of  Jugnes  Paston^  the  xxviij.  day  of 
J  enure  ^  the  yer  of  Kyng  Henry  the  Sexfy  xxxvj. 

TO  prey  Grenefeld  to  send  me  feythfully  word,  by  wrytyn,  1458 
who  Clement  Paston  hath  do  his  dever  in  lernyng.  J^n-  ^8 
And  if  ne  hathe  nought  do  well,  nor  wyll  nought 
amend,  prey  hym  that  he  wyll  trewly  belassch  hym,  tyl  he  wyll 
amend  ;  and  so  ded  the  last  maystr,  and  the  best  that  ever  he 
-had,  att  Caumbrege.  And  sey  Grenefeld  that  if  he  wyll  take 
up  on  hym  to  brynge  hym  in  to  good  rewyll  and  lernyng,  that 
I  may  verily  know  he  doth  hys  dever,  I  wyll  geve  hym  x. 
marcs  for  hys  labor,  for  I  had  lever  he  wer  fayr  beryed  than 
lost  for  defaute. 

Item,  to  se  who  many  gownys  Clement  hathe ;  and  the 
that  be  bar,  late  hem  be  reysyd.  He  hathe  achort  [<?  short'] 
grene  gowne,  and  achort  musterdevelers  ^  gowne,  wer  never 
reysyd  ;  and  achort  blew  gowne  that  was  reysyd,  and  mad  of  a 
syde  gowne,  whan  I  was  last  at  London  ;  and  asyde  russet 
gowne,  furryd  with  bevyr,  was  mad  this  tyme  ij,  yer;  and 
asyde  murry  gowne  was  mad  this  tyme  twelmonth. 

Item,  to  do  make  me  vj.  sponys,  of  viij.  ounce  of  troy 
wyght,  well  facyond  and  dubbyl  gylt. 

And  sey  Elyzabet  Paston  that  she  must  \^se  hyr  selfe  to 
werke  redyly,  as  other  jentylwomen  done,  and  sumwhat  to 
helpe  hyr  selfe  ther  with. 

Item,  to  pay  the  Lady  Pole  .  .  .  xxvjj.  vii]d.  for  hyr 
bord. 

And  if  Grenefeld  have  do  wel  hys  dever  to  Clement,  or 
wyll  do  hys  dever,  gefFe  hym  the  nobyll. 

Agnes  Paston. 

*  [From  Fenn,  i.  i+a.]  •  See  toI.  ii.  p.  155,  Note  i. 

123 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


363  ,' 

AGNES  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

Tho  my  wele  be  lovyd  softy  John  Pasfotty 
be  this  delyvered  in  haste. 

SONNE,  I  grete  zow  wele,  and  lete  zow  wete  that  for  as 
myche  as  zoure  brothir  Clement  leteth  me  wete  that  ze 
desyre  feythfully  my  blyssyng, — that  blyssyng  that  I 
prayed  zoure  fadir  to  gyffe  zow  the  laste  day  that  ever  he 
spakke,  and  the  blyssyng  of  all  seyntes  undir  heven,  and  myn 
mote  come  to  zow  all  dayes  and  tymes  ;  and  thynke  veryly 
non  other  but  that  ze  have  it,  and  shal  have  it,  with  that  that 
I  fynde  zow  kynde  and  wyllyng  to  the  wele  of  zoure  fadres 
soule,  and  to  the  welfare  of  zoure  bretheren. 

Be  my  conseyle  dypose  zoureselfe  as  myche  as  ze  may  to 
Jiave  lesse  to  do  in  the  worlde ;  zoure  fadye  sayde  :  In  lityl 
bysynes  lyeth  muche  reste.  This  world  is  but  a  thorough  fare, 
and  ful  of  woo  ;  and  whan  we  departe  therefro,  rizth  nouzght 
bere  with  us  but  oure  good  dedys  and  ylle.  And  ther  knoweth 
no  man  how  soon  God  woU  clepe  hym,  and  therfor  it  is  good 
for  every  creature  to  be  redy.  Qhom  God  vysyteth  him  he 
lovyth. 

And  as  for  zoure  bretheren,  thei  wylle  I  knowe  certeynly 
laboren  all  that  in  hem  lyeth  for  yow.  Oure  Lorde  have  zow 
in  his  blyssed  kepyng,  body  and  soule. 

Writen  at  Norwyche,  the  xxix.  day  of  Octobyr. 

Be  zoure  modir,  A.  P. 

*  [From  Fenn,  iii.  40.]  As  there  is  no  distinct  evidence  of  the  date  of  this  letter, 
I  have  placed  it  after  another  paper  written  by  Agnes  Paston,  and  making  mention 
of  Clement,  though  I  rather  suspect  it  may  be  a  little  later.  It  certainly  cannot  have 
been,  as  Fenn  supposes,  written  within  a  short  time  after  William  Paston's  death  in 
1444,  *8  Clement  Paston  was  then  only  two  years  old.  From  some  of  the  expressions 
we  might  be  led  to  suspect  that  John  Paston  was  in  trouble  at  the  time. 


124 


HENRY  VI 

364 

WILLIAM  BOTONER  TO  SIR  JOHN  FASTOLF* 
To  my  ryght  worshypful  master^  Sir  John  Fastolf. 
YGHT  worshypfull  Sir,  and  my  ryght  gode  maister,  I    ^45° 


■^  recomaund  me  to  yow  yn  my  full  humble  wyse.  Please 
'*■  yow  to  wete,  as  to  nouveltees  here  both  ^  Christofr 

Barker  wryteth  to  you  more  along. 

The  Kyng  came  the  last  weke  to  Westminster,  and  the 
Duk  of  Yorke  came  to  London  with  hys  oune  housole  onlye 
to  the  nombre  of  cxl.  hors,  as  it  ys  seyd  ;  the  Erie  of  Salysburye 
with  iiij'^-  [400]  hors  yn  hys  companye,  iiij"*  \Jourscore'\  knyghts 
and  sqwyers. 

The  Duke  of  Somerset  came  to  London  last  day  of  Janyver 
with  ij'^-  [200]  hors,  and  loggyth  wythoute  Temple  Barre,  and 
the  Due  of  Excestr  shalle  be  here  thys  weke  with  a  grete  fely- 
shyp  and  strong,  as  it  ys  seyd. 

The  Erie  of  Warwyke  ys  not  yhyt  com,  because  the  wynde 
ys  not  for  hym. 

And  the  Duke  of  Excester  takyth  a  grete  displesir  that  my 
Lord  Warewyke  occupyeth  hys  office,  and  takyth  the  charge  of 
the  kepyng  of  the  see  uppon  hym. 

Item,  as  for  tydyng  of  beyend  see,  I  hyre  none  certeyn,  but 
that  the  Frensh  Kyng  3  shulde  hafe  maryed  hys  doughter  to  the 
Kyng  of  Hungerye,*  whych  had  the  descomfytur  uppon  the 
Turks,  and  the  seyd  Kyng  ys  decesed  wythynne  thys  vj.  wekes, 
or  the  spouselle  was  made  ;  but  he  ordeyned  or  he  dyed  that 
the  Frensh  Kyngs  doughter  shuld  be  named  Quene  of  Hungerye 
duryng  hyr  lyffe. 

*  [From  Fenn,  i.  150.]  Fenn  states  that  he  has  omitted,  as  of  no  consequence, 
the  first  part  of  this  letter  relating  to  the  holding  of  some  courts  and  some  other  law 
matters  wherein  Yelverton,  Fylongley,  and  others  were  concerned. 

*  The  modem  version  in  Fenn  reads  '  here  being.'  *  Charles  vii. 

*  Ladislaus  v.,  who  died  on  the  23rd  November  1457,  when  on  the  point  of 
marriage  with  Magdalen,  daughter  of  Charles  vu.  of  France.  He  is  believed  to  have 
been  poisoned. 

125 


FEB.   I 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1458  Rygt  worshypfull  Sir,  I  beseche  the  blessed  Trinite  hafe 

FEB.  I     yow  yn  hys  gouvernaunce. 

Wrete  at  London,  the  fyrst  day  of  Feverzer,  anno  ^6  R. 
H.  VI. 

Moreover,  please  you  to  wete  that  William  Canyngs  the 
merchaunt  wryteth  an  aunsuer  of  your  lettre.  I  trust  it  shall 
be  the  better  for  your  wrytyng. 

My  brother  promytted  me  a  certeyn  somme  when  I  maryed, 
and  I  shall  hafe  it  of  my  sister  yff  I  may. 
Your  humble  servauntte, 

W.  BOTONER,  dh  WORCESTYR. 


365 

ABSTRACT! 

WiLLUM    BoTONER    TO    SiR   JoHN    FaSTOLF 

I458(?)  You  shall  know  the  governance  here  on  Paston's  coming  to  you  better  than 
[feb.]  I  can  write.  The  King  is  gone  to  Berkhamstead,  *and  it  is  said  my  Lords 
Somerset,  Exeter,  Clifford,  and  Egremont,  that  rode  upon  Thursday  last  to 
the  King,  they  come  again  to  London ;  and  the  Lord  of  Northumberland  is 
come  to  the  King  at  this  time  after  the  Lords'  departing  out  of  London  with 
3000  or  4000  people,  as  it  is  said,  but  all  toke  (?)  to  a  good  peace,  and  re- 
conysances  made  to  keep  the  peace  in  great  sums  till  Michaelmas,  that  in  the 
mean  time  to  make  a  throw  peace  final  by  means  of  all  the  Lords.*  John 
Vyncent  of  Bentley  was  at  the  Priory  of  Lewes  in  Sussex  this  week,  and  says 
that  sixty  sail  of  Frenchmen  were  sailing  before  the  coasts,  keeping  the  sea. 
The  Lord  Fauconberg  is  at  Hampton  with  his  navy.  Edmund  Clere  of  the 
King's  house  has  heard  from  a  soldier  of  Calais  that  Crowmer  and  Blakeney  is 
much  spoken  of  among  Frenchmen.  ♦  The  King's  safe  conduct  is  not  holden 
but  broken,  as  it  is  voiced  here,  and  that  will  do  no  good  to  merchants  till  it 
be  amended.'  Figs  and  raisins  are  dear  at  i8j.  the  croc  (?),  'wherte'  at  lOs. 
the  qr.,  malt  5^.  Remains  here  awaiting  for  the  com[ing  of  your]  officers  of 
Castlecombe  to  bring  up  your  money.  Expects  to  sendj^40  by  Master  Paston. 
.     .     .      .      [Mutilated  at  the  bottom  ;  date  lost.) 

[The  King  was  at  Berkhamstead  in  the  end  of  June  and  beginning  of  July  1450;- 
also  on  the  3rd  March  1453  (from  Reading,  whither  he  returned  immediately);  also 
in  February  and  March  1458  (from  20th  February  to  13th  March).    This  letter  must 
have  been  written  in  February  1458.] 

— I 

1  [From  MS.  Phillipps,  9735,  No.  274.] 
126 


HENRY  VI 


366 

*  JOHN  BOOKING  TO  SIR  JOHN  FASTOLF^ 

^0  my  Maister  Fastolf^  at  Castre^  in  haste. 

LYKE  it  your  maistership  to  wyte  that,  as  for  tidings,  i±c^ 
the  Counsell  is,  the  fornone,  at  the  Blake  Frires,  for  march  i  5 
the  ease  of  resorting  of  the  Lordys  that  are  withinne 
the  toun  ;  and  at  afternone  at  the  White  Frirers  in  Fletstrete, 
for  the  Lordis  withowte  the  toun ;  and  all  thing  shall  come  to 
a  good  conclusion  with  God  is  grace,  for  the  Kyng  shall  come 
hidre  this  weke,  and  the  Quene  also,  as  some  men  sayn,  and 
my  Lord  Buk,^  and  Stafford^  with  hire,  and  moche  puple. 

My  Lord  of  Caunterbury  takith  grete  peyne  up  on  hym 
daily,  and  will  write  un  to  yow  the  certeynte  of  suche  tidings 
as  falle  ;  and  shuld  have  doon  or  this  tyme,  saf  for  that  he 
wolde  knowe  an  end  of  the  matter. 

Other  tidings  here  are  none,  sauf  my  Lord  of  Excestre* 
is  displesid  that  the  Erie  of  Warwyk  shall  kepe  the  see, 
and  hath  therfore  received  this  weke  m'-  //.  Q^iooo]  of  the 
Hanupere.^ 

The  messenger  was  on  horsbak  whanne  I  wrote  yow  this 
bill,  and  therfore  it  was  doon  in  haste ;  and  our  Lord  Jesus 
kepe  yow. 

Writen  at  London  the  Wednesday  after  Midlenton. 
And  my  Lord  of  Caunterbury  tolde  me  that  the  Frenche 
men  have  ben  before  yow,  and  that  ye  shotte  many  gonnes ; 
and  so  he  tolde  all  the  Lords.     I  have  desirid  hym  to  move 

1  [From  Fenn,  i.  1 54.]  This  letter  relates  to  the  temporary  reconciliation  effected 
between  the  Lords  of  the  opposite  parties  in  the  spring  or  14.58. 

3  Humphrey  Stafford,  Duke  of  Buckingham. 

3  Henry  Stafford,  Earl  of  Stafford,  grandson  of  Buckingham,  who  succeeded  him 
in  the  Dukedom  in  1460. 

*  Henry  Holland,  Duke  of  Exeter. 

*  The  Hanaper  of  Chancery. 

127 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1458    the   Counsell  for  refreshing  of  the  toun  of  Yermowth  with 
MARCH  15  stuff  of  ordnance  and  gonnes  and  gonne  powdre,  and  he  seid 
he  wolde. 

Your  humble  servaunt, 

J.    BOKKING. 


WILLIAM  CALTHORPE  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

'To  my  worship  full  Cosyn  John  Past  on. 

I458(?)  T^  IGHT  worshipfull  Cosyn,  I  recommaund  me  unto 
[may  1 1  ?]  r^  you,  certifying  you  that  your  man  John  Osberne  of 
-*-  ^  Walsyngham  hath  be  with  me  and  lete  me  have 
knowlage  of  a  commyssion  chuld  be  doun  from  my  lord 
Chaunceler  to  Sir  Robert  Conyers,  you  other  and  me,  and 
that  ye  wold  have  your  day  upon  Munday  or  Tewesday  at 
Crowemer,  Blakeney  or  Walsyngham,  &c.  And  after  that 
he  was  departed  from  me,  ther  cam  a  servaunt  from  my  cosyn 
Twyer,  and  seid  that  his  maister  hade  a  letter  from  you  that 
ze  have  set  to  be  at  Blakeney  uppon  Munday  next  comyng. 
And  for  as  much  as  I  stande  in  nonn  certeyn  be  cause  of 
variaunce  of  the  massangeres,  therfore  I  send  a  man  of  myne 
to  you,  praying  yowe  to  sende  me  verray  certeynte  and  a  copy 
of  the  commyssion,  that  my  neybures  may  have  knowlage  of 
the  kingis  entent  if  the  case  requyreth  so,  &c. 

I  hold  Blakeney  a  resonable  place,  and  if  ye  kepe  youre 
purpose  at  Blakeney  uppon  Munday  next  comyng  I  shall  mete 
ther  with  you,  with  Goddis  grace,  Wheche  have  you  ever 
in  His  intyer  kepyng,  &c.  Wretyn  at  Brunham  upon  the 
Assencion  day  of  our  Lord,  &c.,  By  W.  Calthorpe. 

1  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  163.J  The  date  of  this  letter  is  by  no  means  certain,  but 
may  be  1458,  after  the  reconcihation  of  parties.  The  reference  to  'the  King's  intent' 
shows  at  least  that  it  was  not  when  the  Duke  of  York  was  Protector  ;  and  it  is  not 
likely  to  have  been  under  Somerset's  rule  or  in  the  reign  of  Edward  iv.  If  1458  was 
th»  year,  the  day  (Ascension  Day)  was  the  i  ith  May. 

128 


HENRY  VI 


368 

ABSTRACT  * 

John  Paston  and  T.  Howys^  to  Fastolf  at  Castre 

Yesterday  *  I  and  other  of  yours'  were  at  your  manor  of  Bentlay — a  right     ^45" 
fair  manor,  in  the  shrewdest  rule  and  governance.     You  have  had  many  officers    may  24 
there  who,  for  ill-will,  have  put  out  the  tenants,  and  let  the  lands  to  your  hurt. 
Some  owe  for  six,  some  for  seven  years,  etc. 

Yesterday  Harry  Sotehill,  of  your  learned  counsel,  was  with  us,  and  ha« 
taken  ways  in  the  law,  etc.  As  Barker  sends  word  that  the  attaint  held  not, 
we  shall  stay  the  longer.  The  Lord  Egremont  sent  for  my  brother,  and  told 
him  '  he  would  see  you  homeward,  as  he  supposed.'  Take  care,  therefore,  you 
make  no  more  grants,  for  you  have  made  too  many.  Could  let  Bentlay,  with 
-surety,  for  500  marks  a  year ;  but  will  not  venture,  because  of  the  trouble  of 
letting  Wyghton,  •  and  also  till  Scrope  hath  spoken  with  you,'  who  will  be  with^ 
you  now,  etc. 

Doncaster,  Wednesday  in  Pentecost  week. 

[It  appears  from  an  account  of  Paston 's  expenses,  of  which  an  abstract  is  given 
farther  on,  that  he  was  at  Doncaster  in  the  36th  year  of  Henry  vi.] 


JOHN  JERNYNGAN  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  » 

Unto  my  ryght  wurchipfull  Cosyn^  Marget  Paston^ 
this  lettre  be  delyvered  in  haste. 

RYGHT  wurchipfull  and  my  moste  beste  beloved  maystres    june  i 
and  cosyn,  I  recommaund  me  unto  you  as  lowly  as  I 
may,  evermor  desyring  to  here  of  your  gode  welfar ; 
the  whiche   I  beseche  Almyzthy  Jesus  to  preserve  you  and 
kepe  you  to  his  plesur,  and  to  your  gracious  herts  desyre. 

And  yf  it  plese  you  to  here  of  my  welfar,  I  was  in  gode 
hele  at  the  makyng  of  this  lettre,  blessed  be  God. 

1  [From  MS.  Phillipps,  9735,  No.  267.] 
•  John  Paston  signs  for  both. 

3  [From  Fenn,  i.  156.]     The  engagement  at  sea  detcribed  in  this  letter  is  dated 
by  Fabyan  on  Trinity  Sunday  or  Monday  1458. 

VOL.   III. 1  129 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1458  Prayng  you  that  it  plese  you  for  to  send  me  word  yf  my 

JUNE  I  fadyr  wer  at  Norwiche  with  you  at  this  Trenite  Masse  or  no, 
and  how  the  matyr  dothe  be  twene  my  Maystres  Blawnche 
Wychynham  and  me,  and  yf  ze  sopose  that  it  shall  be  brought 
a  bowte  or  no  ;  and  how  ze  fele  my  fadyr,  yf  he  be  wele 
wyllyng  thereto  or  no  ;  prayng  you  lowly  that  I  may  be 
recomaund  lowly  unto  my  maystres,  Arblastres  wyfe,  and 
unto  my  Maystres  Blawnche,  her  dowzther,  specially. 

Ryght  wurchipfuU  cosyn,  yf  it  plese  you  for  to  her  of 
suche  tydings  as  we  have  her,  the  basset  \_eml^assy]  of  Burgoyne 
schall  come  to  Galleys  the  Saturday  ^  eftyr  Corpus  Christi  day, 
as  men  say  v.  hondred  horse  of  hem.  Moreover,  on  Trenite 
Sonday,^  in  the  mornyng,  came  tydings  unto  my  Lord  of 
Warwyke  that  ther  were  xxviij''  sayle  of  Spaynyards  on  the  se, 
and  wherof  ther  was  xvj.  grete  schippis  of  forecastell ;  and 
then  my  Lord  went  and  manned  fyve  schippis  of  forecastell, 
and  iij.  carvells,  and  iiij.  spynnes  [pinnaces']^  and  on  the 
Monday,^  on  the  mornyng  eftyr  Trenite  Sonday,  we  met  to 
gedyr  afore  Caleis,  at  iiij.  at  the  clokke  in  the  mornyng,  and 
fawz  thet  gedyr  till  x.  at  the  clokke  ;  and  ther  we  toke  vj. 
of  her  \_their]  schippis,  and  they  slowe  of  oure  men  aboute 
iiij"  [four  score]  ^  and  hurt  a  ij.  hondred  of  us  ryght  sore  ;  and 
ther  wer  slayne  on  theyr  parte  abowte  xij"  [twelve  secrecy  and 
hurt  a  V.  hondred  of  them. 

And  haped  me,  at  the  fyrste  abordyng  of  us,  we  toke  a 
schippe  of  iij'=-  [300]  ton,  and  I  was  lefte  therin  and  xxiij.  men 
with  me  ;  and  thei  fawzthe  so  sor  *  that  our  men  wer  fayne  to 
leve  hem,^  and  then  come  they  and  aborded  the  schippe  that  I 
was  in,  and  ther  I  was  taken,  and  was  prisoner  with  them  vj. 
houris,  and  was  delyvered  agayne  for  theyr  men  that  wer  taken 
beforne.  And  as  men  sayne,  ther  was  not  so  gret  a  batayle 
upon  the  se  this  xl.  wyntyr.  And  for  sothe,  we  wer  wele  and 
trewly  bette  ;  and  my  Lord  hathe  sent  for  mor  scheppis,  and 
lyke  to  fyzthe  to  gedyr  agayne  in  haste. 

*  June  3rd.  '  May  28th.  '  May  29th. 

*  *  for '  in  Fenn ;  seemingly  a  printer's  error,  as  the  word  is  '  sore '  in  the  modem 
version. 

'  Here,  according  to  Fenn,  the  words  'and  go  the'  occur  in  the  original,  struck 
out. 

130 


•      HENRY  VI 

Nomor  I  write  unto  you  at  this  tyme,  but  that  it  plese     1458 
you  for  to  recomaund  me  unto  my  ryght  reverent  and  wurchip-    1""^  i 
full  cosyn  your  husband,  and  myn  ownkll  Gournay,  and  to 
myn  awnte  his  wyfe,  and  to  alle  gode  maysters  and  frends 
where  it  schall  plese  yow  ;  and  eftyr  the  writyng  I  have  from 
you,  I  schall  be  at  you  in  alle  haste. 

Wretyn  on  Corpus  Christi  day  in  gret  haste,  be  your  owne 
umble  servant  and  cosyn, 

John  Jernyngan. 


370 
HENRY  WYNDESORE  TO  JOHN  PASTON 1 

To  my  full  speciall  gode  Maister^  John  Paston. 

WORSHIPFULL  Sir,  and  my  full  speciall  goode  i458(?) 
maister,  after  humble  recommendacion,  please  it  [aug.  27] 
you  to  understand  that  such  service  as  I  can  doo 
to  your  plesir,  as  to  myn  understandyng,  I  have  shewed  my 
diligence  nowe  this  shorte  season  sithen  your  departyng,  and 
in  especiall  aboute  suche  a  copie  of  a  foundacion  as  your 
maistership  commaunded  me  to  gete  you  a  copie  of,  of  the 
which  I  sende  unto  you  at  this  tyme,  by  my  broder  William 
Worcestre,  iij.  copies  writen  by  Luket,  because  I  had  no 
leisir,  but  somoch  besems  in  settyng  forth  my  Maistr  of  the 
Rolles.^  At  this  tyme,  and  in  all  this  Kyngs  deies,  ye  can 
have  noon  oder  accordyng  any  thing  to  your  entent 

1  [From  Fenn,  i.  170.]  At  the  date  of  this  letter  Sir  John  Fastolf  must  have 
been  in  Norfolk,  and  William  Worcester  in  London.  From  the  time  that  the  former 
went  into  Norfolk  in  1454,  till  the  end  of  the  year  1457,  Worcester  seems  generally 
to  have  resided  with  him  j  but  in  the  beginning  of  1458  he  was  in  London,  and  it 
appears  by  the  Castlecombe  mss.  (Add.  MS.  28,208,  B.M.  pp.  39,  42)  that  he  was 
holding  courts  at  Castlecombe  in  Wiltshire  in  June  and  July  of  that  year,  and  that, 
in  November  of  the  same  year,  he  and  Fastolf  were  both  together  in  London.  It  is 
probable,  therefore,  that  he  was  in  London  in  August,  before  Fastolf  had  come  up. 
Indeed,  he  appears  not  to  have  returned  to  Norfolk  till  January  following ;  so  that  m 
August  he  might  quite  well  have  devoted  himself  to  the  study  of  French  in  the 
expectation  of  a  lengthened  stay. 

*  Thomas  de  Kirkeby. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1458  (?)  And  as  for  the  names  of  the  Poles/  William  hath  more 
[aug.  27]  wrytyng  than  ye  and  I  coude  fynde,  foundon  by  labor  made 
by  hym  and  me.  And  also,  Sir,  he  hath  caused  me  to  examyn 
olde  and  mony  records,  writen  by  some  Frenshman,  con- 
cernyng  the  manour  of  Dedham  ;  that  was  a  comborous 
labour,  for  these  copies  were  full  defectif,  as  it  apereth  by  the 
correctyng  of  them. 

Item,  Sir,  I  may  sey  to  you  that  William  hath  goon  to 
scole,  to  a  Lumbard  called  KaroU  Giles,  to  lern  and  to  be  red 
in  poetre  or  els  in  Frensh  ;  for  he  hath  byn  with  the  same 
CaroU  every  dey  ij.  tymes  or  iij.,  and  hath  bought  divers  boks- 
of  hym,  for  the  which,  as  I  suppose,  he  hath  put  hymself  in 
daunger  to  the  same  Karoll.  I  made  a  mocion  to  William  to 
have  knoen  part  of  his  besines,  and  he  answered  and  seid  that 
he  wold  be  as  glad  and  as  feyn  of  a  good  boke  of  Frensh 
or  of  poetre  as  my  Mastr  Fastolf  wold  be  to  purchace  a  fairc 
manoir;  and  therby  I  understand  he  list  not  to  be  commynd 
with  all  in  such  matiers. 

Item,  Sir,  as  for  any  tidings,  William  can  tell  you  here 
at  London  ar  but  full  fewe  ;  but  Henry  Bourgchier  is  ded 
sodenly  at  Ludlowe ;  my  Lord  of  Caunterbury  and  my  Lord 
Bourgchier  shall  be  this  wyk  at  Hunnesdon,  and  hunte  and 
sporte  theym  with  Sir  William  Oldhall. 

At  this  tyme  nothyng  els  to  your  maistership  ;  but  and 
it  please  you  to  remembre  my  maister  at  your  best  leiscr, 
wheder  his  old  promise  shall  stande  as  touchyng  my  pre- 
ferryng  to  the  Boreshed  in  Suthwerke.  Sir,  I  wold  have 
byn  at  a  noddr  place,  and  of  my  maisters  owun  mocion 
he  said  that  I  shold  sett  uppon  the  Boreshed,  in  the  which 
matier  I  reporte  me  to  William  Worcestre,  Bokkyng,  and 
William  Barker,  and  most  specially  to  my  maisters  awun 
remembraunce. 

I  know  full  well  ther  cann  noo  conclusion  be  taken  to 
myn  asayle  [avay/e .?]  without  help  of  your  maistership,  unto 
the  which  I  utterly  submitte  me  in  this,  and  in  all  oder.     And 

*  Apparently  William  Worcester  was  examining  the  pedigree  of  the  Dc  la  Poles, 
ancestors  of  the  late  Duke  of  Suffolk,  who  had  disputed  with  Fastolf  the  right  to  the 
manor  of  Dedham. 

132 


HENRY  VI 

our  Lord  Jesu  preserve  you  and  all  youres,  and  send  you  your  1458  (?) 
herts  desire  with  right.  [a^g-  *7] 

Writen  at  London  on  Sonday  next  after  Seynt  Bartholomu 
Dey  in  hast. 

By  your  servaunt,  Henry  Wyndesore. 


ABSTRACT! 

Writ  of  pane  procured  by  Thomas  Howes,  clerk,  of  Castre,  against  John     1 45 8 
Wyndham,   Thomas   Danyell   of    Rysyng    Castle,    Edmund    Bukenham    of    sept,  i 
Snyterton,  Robert  Lethum  of  Wytton  by  Blofeld,  Simon  Gunnor  of  Estbek- 
ham,  and  sixteen  others,  for  maintaining  a  plea  begun  at  Westminster  without 
the  King's  writ  by  John  Andrew  of  Beylom,  Suffolk,  against  Howes,  whom 
he  had  maliciously  procured  to  be  indicted. 

I  Sept.  37  Hen.  ti. 

On  the  back  are  the  words :  *  Manutenencia  facta  fuit  iiij*°  die  Julii  anno 
XXXV*".*     Dampna  Qii. 


BOTONER  TO  JOHN  PASTON  » 
To  my  Maister  Paston. 

SIR,  as  I  went  to  my  horsward  by  Lincoln  Coke  ys  place, 
hyt  fortuned  that  Wymondham  and  H.  Fenne  talked 
to  gedre,  and  called  me  by  my  name,  and  both  asked 
how  my  maister  *  fard,  &c.  Then  Fen  desyred  me  abyde  to 
see  astate  taked  yn  Lyncoln  place  by  hym  boght  of  Markham. 
In  the  meene  tyme  the  seyd  Wymondham  sent  hys  man  to 
speke  with  hym,  and  yede  yn  talkyng  of  Sir  Thomas  ^  how  he 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

*  A.D.  1457. 

3  [From  MS.  Phillipps,  9735,  No.  249.]     This  letter  clearly  relates  to  the  subject 
of  the  preceding  No. 

*  Sir  John  Fastolf.  6  Howes. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

wille  help  labour  to  an  ende,  and  had  spoke  with  Heydon 
yersten  efe  for  the  seyd  cause.  1  seyd  the  cruell  amercie- 
mentes  by  their  labour,  and  the  [they  ?]  not  beneficed,  shewed 
to  grete  a  malice  to  undo  a  preest  innocent  yn  such  a  cause, - 
&c.  After  my  takyng  leefe,  he  called  me  ageyn,  and  seyd 
that  he  desyred  Sir  Thomas  to  be  gode  meene  to  my  maister 
to  hafe  affeccion  to  the  chylde,  &c.  I  aunsuerd,  yfF  my 
maister  had  before  the  maryage  be  laboured  \j.e.  if  my  master 
had  been  applied  to  before  the  marriage],  hyt  had  [been] 
moche  esyer  to  bryng  aboute  then  now.  And  because  hys 
fadre  was  so  maryed  ayenst  my  maister  wille,  he  nevere  wold 
hafe  affeccion  to  hym  all  hys  lyfe  dayes.  He  seyd  that 
Thomas^  was  with  hys  modre  ther  she  duellyth,  and*yff  it 
please  my  maister  to  sende  for  hym  by  Sir  Thomas  meene,  &c. 
1  ensure  yow  by  my  soule  I  brake  no  mater  to  hym  but  of 
Sir  Thomas  undoyng,  and  hys  adversaries  nevere  the  better, 
whych  to  my  power  wold  help  make  it  knowen  to  Lordes  and 
all  othyrs  of  the  cruell  amerciementes,  the  cruell  juge  to  be 
knowen  as  he  ys,  for  I  am  of  hys  contrey,  and  know  hys 
rysyng  and  maryages  as  well  as  hym  sylfe.  At  ix.  at  clok  to 
hors  bake.     I  pray  yow  breke  my  bille  (.''). 

Your,  H.  R. 


373 

ABSTRACT  2 

Roll  of  the  Personal  and  other  Expenses  of  John  Paston 

IN    THE    36TH    AND    37TH    YEARS    OF    HenRY    VI. 

For  dress  and  cloth,  various. 

*Liberat'  hospitio,'  ;^57,  17J.  Td.  'Item,  uxor!  et  pueris  domi,' 
j^8,  19^.  id.  *Item,  pueris  Cantabrig'  cum  v.  marke  (?)  per  Wekeys,* 
lOix.  •Item,  eisdem  et  sosiis  {sic)  suis  in  regard*,'  4/.  zd.  'Item,  eisdcm 
apud  London,'  etc. 

'  Item,  Henr'  Bolte,  capellano  pro  stipendio  usque  Pascha,  xxxv*°'  13/.  4J. 
*  Et  1 7  die  Julii  pro  ij.  quart','  26s.  Sd. 

*  Expencae   forinsecae.* — '  Pro   fine   Domino    Regi   facto   quod    Johannes 

^  Apparently  Thomas  Fastolf. 

*  [From  Add.  Charter  17,146,  B.M.] 


HENRY  VI 

PastoD  non  sit  miles.'  Expenses  with  Munford  at  Thetford,  2s.  id.  *  Item, 
in  exemplificatione  Ecclesix  de  Gresham,  Magistro  Bulman,'  3j-.  SJ.  *  Item, 
expenc'  equorum  Fastolf  Norwici  ij.  vie.  et  Alexand*  apud  Forncet,'  3^.  id. 
'Item,  praesentatio  angnellorum  data  RadclyfF,'  18^.  To  Alexander  coming 
from  Cambridge.  '  Item,  in  coltellis  apud  Dancaster  datis  servientibus  Fastolf 
et  meis,'  3^.  4^/.  Glazing  Chapel  at  Mauteby,  loj.  'Pro  arrestatione  Carroli 
Nowell  apud  Bury  septimana  Matthiae,'  3J.  SJ.  Expenses  of  Ball's  horse  at 
Berkwey  for  six  weeks,  ioj.  'Item,  expenc'  meae  versus  Snaylwell  et 
redeundo  de  Bury,*  ^s.  4^.  '  Item,  expenc*  Norwici  ad  cess'  hospic'  existent* 
apud  Heylysdon,'  iSd.     'Item,  expenc'  meae  apud  Sweynsthorp,'  Sd. 

In  Easter  and  Trinity  terms. — Paid  to  William  Wyrcester  '  equitanti 
super  negotia  maritagii  sororis,'  los.  For  wine  and  spice  with  Fortescu  and 
Wentworth,  2^d. 

Hilary  term. — Lent  to  James  Arblaster  at  London,  4OJ.  *  Item,  exequix 
Edmundi  Paston,'  2s.  ^d.  To  divers  poor  people  of  Norwich  for  relief  of 
their  charge  '  circa  reparationem  murorum  civitatis,*  "js. 


374 

ELIZABETH  POYNINGS  TO  AGNES  PASTON^ 
To  my  right  worshypfull  moder^  Agnes  Paston. 

RIGHT  worshipfull  and  my  most  entierly  belovde  moder,  1459 
in  the  most  louly  maner  I  recomaund  me  unto  youre  jan.  3 
gode  moderhode,  besekeyng  you  dayly  and  nyghtly  of 
your  moderly  blissing,  evermore  desiryng  to  her  of  your  wel- 
fare and  prosperite,  the  which  I  pray  God  to  contynw  and 
encresce  to  your  herts  desyre.  And  yi  it  lyked  your  gode 
moderhode  to  here  of  me  and  how  I  do,  at  the  makyng  of  this 
lettre  I  was  in  gode  hele  of  body  tanked  be  Jesu.  And  as  for 
my  mayster,  my  best  beloved  that  ye  call,  and  I  must  nedes 
call  hym  so  now,  for  I  fynde  noon  other  cause,  and  as  I  trust 
to  Jesu  non  shall ;  for  he  is  full  kynde  unto  me,  and  is  as  besy 

*  [From  Fenn,  iii.  328.]  The  writer  of  this  letter  is  Agnes  Paston 's  daughter 
Elizabeth,  for  whose  marriage,  as  we  have  seen,  there  had  been  a  good  deal  of  negotiat- 
ing in  past  years  {see  Nos.  93,  94,  236,  250,  252),  and  who  has  now  become  the  wife 
of  Robert  Poynings.  As  the  3rd  of  January,  the  day  on  which  this  letter  is  dated,  was 
a  Wednesday,  the  year  must  be  1459.  The  3rd  of  January  did  not  fall  on  a  Wednes- 
day again  till  1470,  by  which  time  Elizabeth  Paston  and  Robert  Poynings  must  have 
been  married  several  years,  as  will  be  seen  by  No.  126  preceding  (vol,  ii.  p.  154, 
Note  3). 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1459  ^s  he  can  to  make  me  sur  of  my  joyntor,  wherto  he  is  ibounde 
JAN.  3  in  a  bonde  of  mV/.  to  you  mother,  and  to  my  brother  John, 
and  to  my  brother  William,  and  to  Edmund  Clere,^  the  which 
neded  no  such  bond.  Wherfore  I  beseke  you,  gode  moder, 
as  our  most  synguler  trost  is  yn  your  gode  moderhode,  that 
my  maistr,  my  best  beloved,  fayle  not  of  the  C.  marc  at  the 
begynnyng  of  this  terme,  the  which  ye  promysed  hym  to  his 
mariage,  with  the  remanent  of  the  money  of  faders  wille  ;  for 
I  have  promytted  faithfully  to  a  gentilman,  called  Bain,  that 
was  oon  of  my  best  beloved  suertees,  and  was  bounde  for  hym 
in  CC/i.,  of  which  he  reherseth  for  to  ryseyve  at  the  begynnyng 
of  thys  terme  Cxx//.,  and  yf  he  fayle  therof  at  this  tyme,  he 
wille  clayme  the  hool  of  us,  the  which  were  to  us  to  grete  an 
•  hurt ;  and  he  con  not  make  an  ende  with  noon  of  hys  other 

suertees  withoute  this  seyd  sylver,  and  that  con  my  brother 
John  telle  yow  wel  i  nough,  and  it  lusteth  hym  to  do  soo,  and 
in  all  other  thyngs.  As  to  my  Lady  Pool/  with  whom  I 
sojerned,  that  ye  wul  be  my  tendr  and  gode  moder  that  she 
may  be  payde  for  all  the  costes  doon  to  me  before  my  mary- 
age,  and  to  Christofre  Houson,  as  ye  wrote  unto  my  brother 
John  that  I  shuld  have  ben  so;  and  that  it  plese  your  gode 
moderhode  to  yeve  credence  to  William  Worcestr.  And 
Jesu  for  his  grete  mercy  save  yow. 

Written    at    London,    the   Wendysday    the    iij.    day   of 
Janyver. 

By  your  humble  doughter, 

Elyzabeth  Ponynggs. 

1  Edmund  Clere  wasthe  second  son  of  John  Cicre,  Esq.  of  Ormesby,  and  died  in 
1463. 

*  See  p.  123. 


136 


HENRY  VI 

375 

JOHN  PASTON,  THE  ELDER  SON,  TO  HIS  FATHER » 

To  my  ryght  wyrschypful  fadrcj  John  Paston^  Esquyer^ 
be  thys  letter  delyveryd  in  hasty  wyse. 

RYGHT  worschypful  Syr,  in  the  most  lowly  wyse,  I  1459 
comaund  me  to  yowr  good  faderhod,  besechyng  yow  march  5 
of  yowre  blyssyng.  Mut  it  plese  yowr  faderhod  to 
remembre  and  concydre  the  peyn  and  hevynesse  that  it 
hath  ben  to  me  syn  yowr  departyng  owt  of  thys  contre,  here 
abydyng  tyl  the  tyme  it  please  yow  to  schewe  me  grace, 
and  tyl  the  tyme  that  by  reporte  my  demenyng  be  to  yowr 
plesyng ;  besechyng  yow  to  concydre  that  I  may  not,  ner 
have  noo  mene  to  seke  to  yow  as  I  awght  to  do,  and  savyng 
under  thys  forme,  whych  I  besech  yow  be  not  take  to  no  dys- 
plesur,  ner  am  not  of  power  to  do  any  thynge  in  thys  contre 
for  worschyp  or  profyht  of  yow,  ner  ease  of  yowr  tenantys 
whych  myght  and  scholde  be  to  yowr  pleasyng.  Wherfor  I 
besech  yow  of  yowr  faderly  pyte  to  tendre  the  more  thys 
symple  wryghtyng,  as  I  schal  owt  of  dowght  her  after  doo 
that  schal  please  yow  to  the  uttermest  of  my  power  and 
labor  ;  and  if  ther  be  any  servyce  that  I  may  do  if  it  please 
yow  to  comaund  me,  or  if  y  maye  understonde  it,  I  wyl  be 
as  glad  to  do  it  as  any  thyng  erthely,  if  it  wer  any  thyng 
that  myght  be  to  yowr  pleasyng.  And  no  mor,  but  All- 
myghty  God  have  yow  in  kepyng. 
Wretyn  the  v.  day  of  Marche. 

By  your  older  sone, 

John  Paston. 

1  [From  Fenn,  iii.  336.]  By  Letter  377  following,  it  will  be  seen  that  the 
writer  of  this  letter  had  given  displeasure  to  his  father  in  the  early  part  of  the  year 
1459.     There  can  be  no  doubt  that  this  letter  refers  to  the  same  occasion. 


137 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


376 

ABSTRACT  1 

Sir  John  Fastolf  to  John  Paston  and  Sir  Thomas  Howes, 
Parson  of  Blofeld 

I4C9  As  you  desire  me  to  write  letters  to  certain  lords,  etc.,  on  'such  matters  as 

APRIL  1 3  ye  beth  now  to  London  for,'  and  as  you  know  best  what  it  would  be  most 
expedient  for  me  to  write,  I  send  my  servant  Colyn  Newman  to  you  with  my 
signet  sealed  in  a  little  leather  bag,  under  a  signet  of  a  ram,  that  you  and 
William  Jenney,  or  two  of  you,  may  make  out  letters  in  my  name  as  you  think 
fit,  keeping  copies  of  those  you  write.  When  Sir  Thomas  comes  home  again, 
let  him  bring  back  my  signet  sealed  under  your  signets  and  the  copies  you  have 
sent.  '  And  also  peradventure  I  might  as  well  write  to  them  that  ben  away  as 
to  those  that  been  present.  And  among  others  ye  may  say  to  my  nephew, 
Henry  Filongley,  I  trust  right  greatly  in  my  Lord  Treasurer's  good  Lordship 
that  he  will  be  my  good  Lord's  supporter  to  me  in  my  right.' 
Castre,  13th  April  37  Hen.  vi. 

(Signature  not  Fastolf* s  own.) 


APRIL  29 


377 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON « 
Tho  my  ryth  worschopfful  hossebond^  John  Paston^  in  hast. 


R 


YTHEworchepfwl  hosbond,Irecommawnd  me  onto  yow. 
Plesyth  you  to  wete  that  on  Thorisday  last  was  ther 
wer  browt  unto  this  towne  many  Prevy  Sells,  and  on 
of  hem  was  indosyd  to  yow,  and  to  Hastynggs,  and  to  fyve  or 

*  [From  MS.  Phillipps,  9735,  No.  254.] 

*  [From  Fcnn,  i.  174.]  The  only  years  during  the  married  life  of  John  and 
Margaret  Paston  (except  when  their  eldest  son  was  a  mere  child),  in  which  the 
Sunday  preceding  Ascension  Day  fell  some  time  before  the  loth  of  May,  were  1456 
and  1459.  ^^  ^^  former  year  the  King  could  not  either  have  been  or  have  intended 
to  be  at  Leicester  on  the  loth  of  May.  In  1459  the  Privy  Seals  show  that  he  was  at 
Northampton  on  the  14th,  i8th,  and  19th  of  May,  and  it  is  quite  possible  he  may 
have  been  at  Leicester  on  the  loth.  In  1464  Edward  iv.  was  at  Leicester  in  May, 
and  the  Sunday  before  Ascension  Day  was  the  6th  of  May ;  but  it  is  not  probable 
this  letter  was  written  in  that  year,  for  two  reasons.  In  the  first  place,  Margaret 
Paston  could  hardly  have  hoped  for  an  answer  from  her  husband — who  may  be 
presumed  to  have  been  in  London — in  time  to  have  sent  his  son  to  be  at  Leicester  on 
the  loth;  secondly.  Letter  375,  which  is  evidently  of  the  same  year  as  this,  would 
probably  have  been  signed  'John  Paston,  K.'  {i.e.  Knight). 


HENRY  VI 

sexe  odyr  gentylmen ;  and  anodyr  was  sent  onto  yowr  sone,  1459 
and  indosyd  to  hym  selfe  alone,  and  asynyd  wythinne  wyth  APRIL29 
the  Kynggys  howyn  hand,  and  so  wer  bwt  fewe  that  wer  sent, 
as  it  was  told  me  ;  and  also  ther  wer  mor  specyal  termys 
in  hys  then  wern  in  oderys.  I  sey  a  copy  of  thoo  that  wer 
sent  onto  odyr  gentylmen.  The  intent  of  the  wrytyng  was, 
that  they  sshuwlde  be  wyth  the  Kyngg  at  Leycester  the  x.  day 
of  May,  wyth  as  many  personys  defensebylly  arayid  as  they 
myte  acordyng  to  her  degre,  and  that  they  schwld  bryng  wyth 
hem  for  her  expensys  for  ij.  monythis.  As  for  the  lettyr 
that  was  indosyd  to  yow  and  to  odyr,  it  was  delyveryd  to 
Welyam  Yelvyrton,  for  ther  aperyd  no  mor  of  the  remwlawnt. 
Hastynggs  is  forthe  into  Yorke  schyr. 

I  prey  yow  that  ye  vowchesaf  to  send  word  in  hast  how  ye 
wyl  that  yor  sone  be  demenyd  herin.  Men  thynk  her,  that 
ben  yowr  wel  wyllerys,  that  ye  may  no  lesse  do  than  to  send 
hym  forthe.  As  for  hys  demenyng,  swn  ye  departyd,  in 
god  feythe,  it  hath  ben  ryth  good,  and  lowly,  and  delygent ' 
inn  ovyr  sythe  of  yowre  servawntys,  and  odyr  thinggys,  the 
whiche  I  hope  ye  wold  abe  plesyd  wyth,  and  ye  had  be  at 
hom.  I  hope  he  wyl  be  well  demenyd  to  plese  yow  heraftyr- 
ward.  He  desyryd  Alblaster  to  bemene^  to  yow  for  hym, 
and  was  ryte  hevy  of  hys  demenyng  to  yow,  as  I  sent  yow 
word  also  be  Alblaster,  how  I  dede  to  hym  aftyr  that  ye  wer 
go  ;  and  I  beseche  yow  hartyly  that  ye  wochesaf  to  be  hys  god 
fadyr,  for  I  hope  he  is  schastysyd,  and  wil  be  the  worher 
\worthier  ?]  heraftyr. 

As  for  alle  odyr  tynggys  at  hom,  I  hope  that  I  and  odyr 
schal  do  howr  part  ther  inne,  as  wel  as  we  may,  bwt  as  for 
mony  it  comyth  bwt  slowly.  And  God  have  yow  in  hys 
kepyng,  and  sen  yow  good  sped  in  alle  yowr  matteris. 

Wretyn  in  hast  at  Norwece,  on  the  Sonday  next  before  the 
Assencyon  Day. 

Ser,  I  wold  be  ryte  glad  to  he  [hear]  swmme  gode 
tydynggys  fro  yow. 

Be  yorys,  M.  P. 

*  To  be  mean,  i.e.  to  be  a  mediator.      Fenn  has  not  apprehended  the  phrase, 
which  he  has  modernised  *  to  bemoan.' 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


378 

OSBERT  MUNDEFORD  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

A  mon  treshonnoure  Seigneur^  Jehan  Pas  ton  ^  Escuier. 

iacqC?)  r  I  TRESHONNOURE  Sire,  je  me  recommande  a  vous 
MAY  25  I  tant  que  je  puis,  et  vous  prie  qu'il  vous  plaise  me 
recommander  a  ma  maistresse  vostre  noble  espouse  et 
a  tous  voz  enfFans,  et  que  ne  soit  point  mis  en  oubly  mon 
petit  homme  d'armes.  Et  oultre  vous  plaise  me  recommander 
a  mon  Maistre  Yelverton  et  mon  Maistre  Caulthorpe,  et  a 
touz  mes  autres  maistres  et  amis  de  pardela  ou  sera  vostre 
bon  plaisir.  Et  vous  mercie  des  grans  plaisirs  et  amitiez  que 
avez  faitz  et  monstrez  a  moy  et  aux  miens,  lesquelz  Dieu  me 
doint  deservir.  Treshonnoures  Sire,  plaise  vous  savoir  que 
mon  frere  Jehan  a  Bernay  ma  escript  dune  matere  dont 
me  touchastes,  moy  estant  parde  la,  a  laquelle  vostre  desir 
vouldroit  I'onneur  des  deux  pars,  et  de  laquelle  matere  le 
porteur  de  cestes  vous  informera,  et  des  nouvelles  de  pardeca 
s'il  vient  a  voz  bons  plaisirs.  Et  vouldroye  bien  que  vous 
et  mon  dit  frere  Jehan  a  Bernay  voulsissez  communiquer 
avecques  la  personne  aqui  la  matere  touche,  et  que  je  peusse 
savoir  son  entente,  affin  dy  otemperer,  car  je  luy  vouldroye 
faire  plaisir  et  service  ;  car  je  y  suis  tenu,  et  la  chose  sera 
en  partie  reglee  par  vous  et  par  mondit  frere,  mais  je  veil 
estre  le  tiers,  et  une  autre  personne  sera  le  quart.  Treschere 
et  treshonnoure  Sire,  je  vous  recommande  tout  mon  fait  de 
pardela,  et  sy  faiz  je  la  petite  Marie,  pour  laquelle  je  vous 
mercie,  et  especiallement  ma  damoiselle  vostre  fame  et  noble 
espouse,  et  me  desplaist  de  la  grant  paine  et  charge  que  avez 
pour  elle  ;  mas  Dieu  me  doint  grace  que  je  le  puisse  aquicter. 

*  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  The  writer  of  this  letter  was  put  to  death  at  Calais 
on  the  25th  June  1460,  having  been  taken  at  Sandwich  when  about  to  go  thither  in 
aid  of  the  Duke  of  Somerset  against  the  Earl  of  Warwick.  The  date  cannot  be  in 
that  year,  and  how  much  earlier  it  may  be  is  quite  uncertain,  unless  we  suppose  '  mon 
petit  homme  d'armes '  to  be  Paston's  eldest  son,  who,  as  we  have  seen,  was  summoned 
to  perform  military  service  in  1459- 
140 


HENRY  VI 

Priant  nostre  Seigneur  qui  soit  garde  de  vous,  et  vous  doint  1 459(0 
bonne  vie  et  longue,  et  joyeulx  acomplissement  de  touz  voz    **ay  25 
desirs. 

Escript  a  Calais,  le  xxv""'  jour  de  May. 
Le  tout  votre  serviteur, 

OSBERNE    MUNDEFORD. 


379 

WILLIAM  BARKER  TO  JOHN  PASTONi 

to  myn  ryght  worshypfull  \in'\ayster^  John  Pas  ton,  at  London  y 
atte  the  T^emple. 

PEASE  youre  maystership  that  as  to  morwen  a  newe  1459 
inquirendum  shal  be  taken  at  Wycham  Markette  for  June  24 
the  parsonage  of  Rendelesham  for  one  Mayster  John 
'Gierke,  a  chapeleyn  of  the  Lady  Roos ;  and  Sir  Thomas  ^ 
shuld  a  ben  there,  but  he  is  hurte  of  an  hors,  and  also  hit 
was  so  late  warnyng  that  we  myght  not  ben  there  ;  and,  as 
Mayster  Steven  seyth,  hit  should  not  a  avayled,  thow  one 
hadde  bene  there,  and  elles  I  wold  a  labored  theder  myn 
self.  But  he  seyth  and  \i.e.  if]  ye  wold  speke  to  myn  Lord 
Norwych,  and  enforme  hym  of  the  trought  of  the  mater, 
he  shal  never  presente  ner  inducte  non  tyl  the  ryght  of  the 
patentes  be  discussed,  and  also  we  may  after  wardes  hald  a 
melius  inquirendum.  Mayster  Steven  hath  wreten  to  Sir  John 
Bulman  all  the  tytles  and  presentacions,  and  therefore,  if  hit 
please  yow  to  comon  with  hym,  ye  shall  under stande  all  the 
mater  by  hym  how  myn  Lord  is  disposed.  And  [if]  Mayster 
Robert  Eppeswell  is  now  at  London,  hit  were  shame  that  they 
shuld  have  ther  entent.     Sir  Phillip  Wentworth  groundeth  not 

*  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  It  appears  by  the  Bishops'  Registers  at  Norwich 
that  John  Clerk  was  instituted  to  the  living  of  Rendlesham  on  the  20th  June  1459  on 
the  King's  presentation.  This  letter  must  have  been  written  four  days  later  in 
ignorance  of  the  fact.  Clerk's  predecessor  was  John  Sybton,  administration  of  whose 
goods  was  granted  on  the  19th  May  1450. 

'  Sir  Thomas  Howes. 

141 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1459  his  presentacion  by  the  patent,  but  by  the  endenture  a  twyxt 
JUNE  24  the  wedewe  and  hym,  &c.  Myn  mayster  is  as  freshe  as  ever 
he  was  this  ij.  yere,  thanked  be  God.  And  youre  mater  that 
ye  have  meved  of  to  Sir  Thomas  for  the  porchase,  &c., 
myn  mayster  is  weel  agreed  therto,  but  fyrst  hit  was  taken 
strangely,  &c.  Almyghty  Jesu  preserve  yow,  myn  worship- 
full  mayster,  to  youre  desyre  after  his  pleser  and  youre  trewe 
entent. 

Hastly  at  Norwyche,  on  Seynt  John  Day,  at  vij.  of  the 
clokke  at  even.  Youre  owen  man, 

W.  Barker, 


Per  mandat'  T.  H. 


380 


ABSTRACT  1 

Sir  John  Fastolf  to  John  Paston 

JULY  3  *  Hit  is  to  remember  my  cousin,  John  Paston,  that  where  as  he  desired  to 

have  the  names  of  the  new  feoffment  of  the  manor  of  Dedham  that  William 
Geney  might  see  to  ground  such  matter  upon  as  might  be  for  the  surety  of  the 
said  manor,  I  sent  a  copy  of  the  said  feoffment  by  John  Daunson  the  last 
week.'  Gives  other  points  of  information  asked  for.  Has  caused  the  patent 
to  be  written  and  sealed  for  Rauff  Alygh's  fee.  Paston  is  to  oversee  the 
-evidences  of  Fastolf 's  tenement  by  St.  Olave's  Church,  which  one  Laurence 
Donne  has  summoned.  Philip  Grocer  on  London  Bridge  is  a  great  maintainer 
of  Donne.  As  to  the  matters  moved  by  Stephen  Scrope  and  Richard  Byngham 
has  lately  written  by  Daunson  '  to  my  said  cousin  '  and  to  William  Yelverton 
of  his  intent,  and  given  them  full  power  to  appoint  with  them. 

(^Signature  not  his  own.) 
Castre,  3  July  37  Hen.  vi. 

Would  like  Paston  and  Hue  at  Fenne  to  see  a  speedier  mean  for  the 
recovery  of  the  300  marks  adjudged  to  Fastolf  to  be  received  of  the  Lady 
Fulthorp  for  the  ward  of  Thomas  Fastolf. 

*  [From  MS.  Philiipps,  9735,  No.  250. 


142 


HENRY  VI 

381 


JOHN,  LORD  LOVEL,  TO  VISCOUNT  BEAUMONT » 

To  my  right  luorshipfuUy  and  my  moost  best  beloved  Lord  Fadre^ 
my  Lord  Beaumont. 

Right  worshipfull  and  my  moost  best  beloved  Lord  Fadre,  I  recomaunde  Between 
me  unto  youre  good  Lordship.     Please  it  yow  to  wit,  I  have  consayvid  your      14C4 
writyng  right  well ;  and  for  asmoche  as  ye  desure  the  stiwardship  of  Bagge-      'inA 
worth  for  youre  wilbeloved  Thomas  Everyngham,  which   y  trowe  verely  be 
right  a  good  and  a  feithfull  gentilman.     How  be  it,  my  Lord,  youre  desure      *459 
shall  be  had  in  all  that  is  in  me ;    and   at  the  instaunce  of  your   Lordship, 
y  by  th'avise  of  my  counceill,  shall  gyf  it  hym  in  writyng  undre  suche  fourme 
as  shall  please  yow,  wheryn  y  wold  be  glad  to  doo  that  at  might  please  youre 
good  Lordship,  prayng  yow  right  hertly  ye  wold  be  myn  especial!  good  lord 
and  fadre  in  all  suche  (^mattersj  as  ye  can  thynk  shuld  growe  to  my  worship  or 
profite  in  any  wise,  as  my  synguler  trust  is  moost  in  yow.     And  y  alwey  redy 
to  doo  yowe  servyse  with  Goddes  grace,  who  have  yow,  my  right  worshipfull 
and  my  moost  best  beloved  Lord  Fadre,  ever  in  His  blessid  kepyng. 

Written  at  Rotherfild  Gray,  the  xxiiij.  day  of  Juyle,  &c. 

Furthermore,  my  Lord,  and  it  like  yow,  my  Lady  my  modre  recommaundid 
her  unto  your  good  Lordship,  yn  whom  her  moost  feith  and  trust  is  in,  prayng 
yow,  ye  woll  be  good  brother  unto  her,  for  she  hath  taken  yow  for  her  chief 
counceill,  &c. 

JoHH,  Lord  Lovell. 

382 

ELIANOR,  DUCHESS  OF  NORFOLK,  TO  VISCOUNT 
BEAUMONT  « 

To  my  right  ivorshipfull  and  right  entierly  welbelovid  cousin^  the 
Viscount  Beaumont. 

Right  worshipfull  and  right  entierly  welbelovid  cousin,  I  comaunde  me  to     1 444- 

^  [From  Fcnn,  i.  iiS.]     The  writer  of  this  succeeded  to  the  barony  of  Level  in      14"^ 
1454,  and  married  Jane,  the  daughter  of  John,  first  Viscount  Beaumont,  the  person 
addressed.     As  Beaumont  was  slain  at  the  battle  of  Northampton  on  the  loth  July 
1460,  this  letter  cannot  be  later  than  1459,  but  may  be  some  years  earlier. 

*  [From  Fcnn,  i.  194.]  Here  we  have  another  letter,  of  uncertain  date,  addressed 
to  the  same  person  as  the  last.  The  year  when  it  was  written  is  quite  immaterial,  but 
must  have  been  between  1444,  when  John  Mowbray,  the  writer's  husband,  was  con- 
firmed in  the  dignity  of  Duke  of  Norfolk  (which  had  belonged  to  his  grandfather  in 
the  time  of  Richard  11.),  and  1460,  when  Viscount  Beaumont  was  slain  at  the  battle 
of  Northampton. 

H3 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1444-     you  with  alle  my  herte,  desiring  to  here,  and  verile  to  knowe  of  your  worshipfull 
IA.60     ^s*^^*>  profile,  hele  and  good  prosperite,  the  whiche  I  beseche  our  Lord  Jesu 
ever  to  mayntene  and  preserve  in  alle  worship,  to  his  plesaunce,  and  to  your 
herts  ease. 

Please  it  you,  cousin,  to  witte  that  your  welbelovid  servaunt,  Roger  Hunt, 
and  a  servaunt  of  my  moost  dred  Lord  my  husbond,  on  William,  yoman  of  his 
ewry,^  have  comend  to  gedre,  and  been  fully  thorgh  and  agreed  that  the  said 
William  shall  have  his  office,  if  it  may  please  your  good  Lordship.  Wherfore, 
cousin,  I  pray  you,  as  my  speciale  truste  is  in  you,  that  ye  will,  at  th'instaunce 
of  my  proier  and  writing,  graunte  by  your  lettres  patents  to  the  said  William  the 
forsaid  office,  with  suche  wages  and  fees  as  Roger  your  said  servaunt  hath  it  of 
you ;  trustyng  verile  that  ye  shall  fynde  the  said  William  a  faithfull  servaunt  to 
you,  and  can  and  may  do  you  right  good  service  in  that  office. 

And,  cousin,  in  th'acompleshment  of  my  desire  in  this  mater,  ye  may  do  me 
a  right  good  pleaser,  as  God  knowith,  whom  I  beseche  for  His  merci  to  have 
you  ever  in  His  blessed  gouvernaunce,  and  send  you  good  lyfe  and  long,  with 
muche  good  worship. 

Writen  at  Framlynham,  the  viij*  day  of  Marche. 

Elian  ORE,  the  Duchess  of  Norfolk. 


FRIAR  BRACKLEY  TO  JOHN  PASTON* 

To  my  Mayster,  Jon  Pastone^  Esqwyer^  be  this  letter  presentid. 
Jesu  mercy. 

,'459      I  )  YTE  reverent  mayster,  &c.,  as  sone  as  ze  may  goodly, 

Sba-iCtyi  ^Aiks    1%       corny th  to  Castre,  and  Zelverton'  with  zow,  and  ze 

-«*^»-~r*Mj4W  think  it  to  be  done  ;  and  sendyth  home  zowr  men  and 

-i^'^''"^^^'^''*3{""^ors,  tyl  ze  haf  do  here,  &c.     And  by  grace  of  God  and  zour 

polityk  wisdham,  ze  schal  conclude  more  effectually  in  gret 

matyers  of  substans,  to  my  maysterys  *  and  zour  worschip  and 

profyte.     It  is  hey  tyme  ;   he  drawyt  fast  home  ward,  and  is 

*  An  officer  who  had  charge  of  the  table  linen,  etc. 

'  [From  Fenn,  iii.  542.]  No  signature  appears  to  be  attached  to  this  letter  as 
Fenn  has  printed  it,  but  the  style  is  unmistakably  that  of  Brackley,  to  whom  he 
attributes  it.  The  original  was  endorsed  in  an  ancient  hand,  according  to  Fenn, 
*  Littera  fratris  Doctoris  Brackley  per  quam  patet  Jo.  Fastolf  valdc  desidcrasse  pre- 
sentiam  consanguinei  sui  Jo.  Paston.'  The  date  seems  to  be  shortly  before  Sir  John 
Fastoirs  death,  which  happened  on  the  5th  November  1459. 

'  William  Yelverton.  *  Sir  John  Fastolf. 

144 


HENRY  VI 

ryte  lowe  browt,  and  sore  weykid  [weakene^l  and  feblyd,  &c.  1459 
And  ze  must  bryng  with  zow  a  forme  of  a  supplicacyon  made 
at  London  in  what  maner  wyse  Mr.  R.  Popy,  a  cunnyng  and 
a  crafty  man,  schal  presentyn  and  purposyn  to  the  Kyng  for 
the  inmorteysing  of  Castre  to  Seynt  Benet,  &c.,  which  he 
promittyd  up  [^promised  upon]  a  certeyn  mony,  &c.,  and  undir- 
toke  it,  &c.,  and  fond  that  tyme  no  bonys  in  the  matere,  &c. 
And  now  he  seyth  he  wil  labour  and  ryde  and  do  hise  part,  &c. 
And  he  wold  haf  me  to  help  hym,  &c.,  quod  non  fiet,  &c.,  or 
elles  a  man  of  credens  of  my  masterys,  &c.,  quod  dubito  fieri, 
&c.  God  bryng  zow  sone  hidyr,  &c.,  for  I  am  weri  tyl  ze 
come. 

Sir  Thomas  the  parson,  zowr  owne  most  trewe,  &c.,  be 
myn  trewthe,  and  I  zour  bedeman  and  zowrs  at  zour  comaunde- 
ment,  in  zour  letter  haf  no  more  towchid  of  the  mater,  &c.,  to 
my  mayster,  &c.  Every  day  this  v.  dayes  he  seyth,  '  God  send 
me  sone  my  good  cosyn  Paston,  for  I  holde  hym  a  feythful  man, 
and  ever  on  man.'  Cui  ego, '  That  is  soth,'  &c.  Et  ille,  '  Schew 
me  not  the  mete,  schew  me  the  man. '  Hasc  verba  replicat  saspius 
cum  magno  stomacho,  &c.  Colinus  Gallicus  dicit  in  Jernemuta 
et  aliis  locis  se  esse  executorem,  &c.  Dixit  etiam  heri  coram 
pluribus,  si  semel  fuerit  London'  nunquam  vult  videre  Nor- 
folchiam,  &c.  Dicit  etiam,  ubi  executores  credunt  se  habituros 
claves,  &c.,  post  mortem  alii  habebunt  claves,  ita  bene  sicut  illi, 
&c.  Falsissimus  est,  et  ego  bene  dixi  in  partem  suam  inter 
ipsum  et  me,  &c.  Propter  Deum,  faciatis  Spirlyng  venire 
juxta  promissum  in  Tcu  \_f actum  }\  &c.  Gallicus  ipse  maxime 
odit  rectorem  et  vellet  supplantare  eum,  &c.  Item,  valde 
desiderat  suum,  quietus  est  quia  absit,  &c. 

Henricus  Todyham  continue  aspirat  post  mortem  magistri 
cum  mille  habeat  oculos  nocendi,  &c.,  si  quorum  duos  deper- 
derit,  nuUus  caeteros  timeret,  &c. 


VOL.  III.- 


145 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


384 

WILLIAM  JENNEY  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  my  worshipful  and  right  gode  mayster^ 
John  Past  OK  y  Squyer. 

I459(?)'TT  TURSHIPFUL  sire,  and  my  right  gode  mayster,  I 

AUG.  [22]    ^^       recomaunde  me  to  zou,  and  hertely  I  thanke  zour 

gode  maystership  that  ze  liked  to  sende  my  mayster 

zour  sone  to  Sporle  with  suych  felaship  as  ze  dede,  for  which 

I  am  ever  bounde  to  doo  zou  service,  prayeng  zou  of  zour 

gode  contenuaunce. 

Sire,  the  cause  why  I  kam  not  was  this  :  I  was  falle  seek 
with  an  axez  [ague],  and  truly  that  caused  me  that  I  and  my 
felaship  taryed ;  and  so  be  cause  therofFe  I  caused  my  lady  to 
wryte  a  specyall  lettre  to  my  Lord  Scales.  But  for  al  that 
Blake  hath  hoom  the  corn  in  my  Lady  of  Suffolkys  name. 
And  the  cause  why  I  sent  no  wurd  of  my  seknes  was,  that  I 
wuld  not  myn  enmy  shuld  be  rejoysed  be  the  knowlych  of  my 
seknesse.  So  God  help  me,  the  felaship  that  was  redy  to  goo 
was  right  scry  that  thei  myght  not  goo  furth  with  me  ;  and 
my  lordes  and  my  ladyes  wyl  was  that  thei  shuld  have  goon 
further.  But  if  I  had  been  heil  and  not  seek,  there  shuld  have 
kome  a  wurshipful  felaship  out  of  Suffolk  of  so  litel  warnyng ; 
but  truly  I  lay  seek  at  Ipeswych  of  the  axcez  bothe  Sunday 
and  Monday.  But,  sire,  syn  ze  have  shewed  me  so  kyndcly 
zour  gode  maystership,  I  praye  zou  I  may  have  your  felaship 

1  [From  Fenn,  iv.  38.]  This  letter  is  referred  by  Fenn  to  the  beginning  of 
Edward  iv.'s  reign,  but  on  a  careful  examination  I  think  it  must  be  earlier,  as  William 
Jenney's  proceedings,  even  in  the  first  year  of  Edward  iv.,  were  by  no  means  friendly 
to  John  Paston.  The  Lord  Scales  here  mentioned  must  therefore  be  the  Lord  Scales 
of  Henry  vi.'s  time,  who  was  murdered  in  July  1460,  and  the  letter,  having  been 
written  in  August,  cannot  be  later  than  1459.  In  that  year,  as  will  be  seen  by  Letter 
377,  John  Paston's  eldest  son  had  already  begun  active  life,  and  I  am  inclined  to  think 
that  it  is  the  precise  year  in  which  the  present  letter  was  written.  John  Paston,  the 
second,  was  at  that  time  not  more  than  nineteen  years  of  age,  and  we  hear  nothing  of 
his  doings  earlier.  The  manor  of  Sporle  was  inherited  by  John  Paston,  senior,  from 
his  father  the  judge. 
146 


HENRY  VI 

redy  at  a  nothir  tyme  to  help  to  execute  a  commyssion  touchyng  i459(?) 
Blake,  and  that  thei  may  be  redy  withinne  ij,  dayez  after  ze^uc-  [^2] 
have  warnyng.     And,  sire,  my  service  is  redy  to  zou  at  alle 
tymys,  as  ze  shewe  me  gret  cause  to  doo  zou  service.    Wreten 
at  Thelton,^  the  Wednysday  next  before  Seynt  Bertilmew  Day 
in  haste. 

Your  servaunt,  William  Jenney. 

38s 

WILL  OF  SIR  JOHN  FASTOLF^ 

In  the  name  and  the  wurship  of  the  holy,  blyssydfuU  Trynite  [in  the  yearj  I4CQ 
of  our  Lord  Jesu  Crist,  M'CCCCLIX.,  and  in  the  xxxviij.  yeer  of  [our  ^Qy^  ^ 
souerayn  Kyng]  of  Englonde  and  of  Fraunce,  Herry  the  Sexte,  the  iij.  day  of 
the  moneth  [of]]  Novembre,^  I,  John  Fastolf  of  Castre,  be  Gret  Jernerauth,  of 
the  counte  of  [Norfolk],  Knyght,  beynge  in  good  remembraunce,  albeit  I  am 
sykly  and  thorwh  age  infeb[led]],  bryngyng  to  mende  and  often  revolvynge  in 
my  soule  how  this  world  is  tra  .  .  .  and  how,  amongs  all  e[r]]thely  thynges 
that  is  present  or  for  to  come,  there  is  noe  thynge  in  this  onstable  world  so 
serteyn  to  creature  of  man  kende  as  is  departynge  out  of  this  world  be  dethe, 
the  soule  from  the  wrechyd  body ;  and  noo  thynge  erthely  so  onserteyn  as  the 
oure  and  tyme  of  deth — Therefore  I,  willynge  and  desyringe  that  of  suche 
goodes  of  substaunce  worldly,  mevabill  and  onmevable,  that  God  of  hise  boun- 
teuous  grace  hathe  sent  me  in  my  lif  to  dispose  and  ocupye,  that  they  be  disposed 
as  it  may  be  thowght  best  for  the  helthe  of  my  soule  and  to  the  plessaunce  of 
God,  and  also  for  the  relyf,  soccour,  and  helpe  of  the  soulez  that  I  am  most 
oblygid  and  bounde  to  purveye  and  doo  .   .  .  for,  as  the  soule  of  John  Fastolf, 

my  fadyr.  Dame  Mary,  doutyr  of  Nicholas ray  modir,  and  the  soule 

of  Dame  Milcent,  my  wifF,  the  dautyr  of  [Sir  Robert]  Tibtot,  knyght,  and  for 

the  soulez  of  othyr  of  myn kynsefolke  and  speciall  frendes  here 

undir  wretyn, — I  ordeyn  and this  my  last  will  in  fourme  and  maner 

folwyng : — 

[Ftrst  Draft.]  [Second  Draft.] 

*\Fyrsty  I  will  and  ordeyne  that,  if  Firste,  Forasmyche  as  for  the  wel- 
it  plese  oure  sovereynge  lord  Kynge  fare  of  my  soule  and  of  the  soules 
Herry  the  Sexte,  or  hese  heyre  Kynges,     forseyd,  and  for  ese,  support,  an^d  helpc 

•  Thelveton,  near  Diss,  in  Norfolk. 

2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  document  is  printed  from  the  original  draft, 
in  which  a  great  part  of  the  text  has  been  crossed  out,  and  other  paragraphs  substituted 
in  the  margin.  The  passages  thus  cancelled  are  enclosed  within  brackets  with  asterisks. 
Those  substituted  for  them  or  inserted  in  a  later  hand  are  printed  in  a  parallel  column 
on  the  right.  The  passages  bracketed  without  asterisks,  and  also  the  dotted  spaces, 
are  lost  by  mutilation. 

'  The  date  was  originally '  the  xiiij.  day  of  the  moneth  of  June.' 

H7 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


14  fQ  for  the  longe  contynwyd  servise  be  me 
NOV.  Z  io  the  daye  of  strengthe  and  helthe  of 
my  body,  to  hym  and  to  the  noble 
Kynge  Herry  the  Forthe  and  Herry 
the  Fifte,  hise  progenitoris,  and  to  hise 
noble  uncles  John  Duke  of  Bedford, 
Thomas  Duke  of  Clarence,  whill  they 
were  in  the  werrys  of  oure  seyd  sovereyng 
Lord  and  hise  noble  progenitorys  for- 
seid,  in  Fraunce  and  Normandy  as  in 
cuntreez  and  othyr  placis,  consederynge 
my  many  gret  labourys,  peynis,  and 
perilis  in  the  seyd  servise  of  oure 
sovereyn  Lord  and  hise  noble  pro- 
genitoris forseyd,  and  hise  pleyntyuous 

grace  withoutyn  ony  other of 

myn  executores  namyd  in  my  testament, 
or  ellys  for  a  resonable  sume  of  [money] 
whiche  oure  seyd  sovereyn  Lord  ovjrith 
me,  or  in  othir  wise,  or  be  ony  othyr 
meane,  so  as  myn  executores  therein 
shall  accorde  with  oure  seyd  sovereyn 
Lord  and  hise  counsell,  or  with  hise 
heire  Kynges  and  here  councell,  to 
lycence  and  graunte  to  them  that  be 
feffyd  to  myn  use  in  my  Lordshepis 
manerez,  londes,  tenementes,  rentes, 
servisez,  with  here  appurtenaunces,  or 
to  here  assigneez  aftyr  the  effecte  and 
forme  of  the  lawe,  by  the  avyse  of  myn 
executores,  to  ordeyne,  founde,  and 
stablishe,  withinne  the  gret  mancion  or 
dwelynge  place  late  be  me  newe  edified 
and  motid  in  the  town  of  Castre,  be 
Gret  Jernemuth,  in  the  counte  of  Nor- 
fFolk,  whiche  mancion  or  dwellyng  place 
I  was  born  in,  a  collage  of  a-prioury  of 
vj.  religeous  personis,  monks  of  the 
ordir  of  Seynt  Benett,  and  to  inmorteise 
and  graunte  to  the  seyd  priour  and  vj. 
religeous  personis,  or  to  here  succes- 
sorys,  the  forseyd  mancion  or  dwellynge 
place,  with  all  the  appurtenauncez  and 
othir  sufFecient  and  cleer  lyflode  of  the 
forseyd  lordshepis,  maneres,  londes,  and 
tenementes,  rentes,  and  servisez,  with 
here  appurtenauncez,  for  the  sustenta- 

148 


of  the  pore  inhabitantes  in  the  cuntre 
of  Flegge,  and  for  to  avoyde  that  noo 
lord  nor  gret  astat  shuld  inhabit  in  tyrae 
comyng  withinne  the  gret  mancion  be 
me  late  edified  and  motid  in  Castre 
forseid,  I  have  of  long  tyme  been  in 
purpose  to  stablishe  and  founde  a  col- 
lage withinne  the  seyd  gret  mancion, 
and  soo  to  purveye  that  suche  as  I  lovyd 
and  thought  behofFefull  for  the  seyd 
cuntre,  and  that  noon  othyr,  shulde 
inhabite  in  the  seyd  mancion  with  the 
collagyens  of  the  seyd  collage :  Xher- 
for,  and  for  the  senguler  love  and  trust 
that  I  have  to  my  seyd  cosyn  John 
Paston,  [abov]e  all  othyr,  beyng  in 
veray  beleve  that  he  will  execute  my 
will  here  in,  I  will  and  ordeyne,  as  he 
and  I  have  covinauntyd  and  been  ac- 
cordyd  that  he  shall,  with  inne  reson- 
able tyme  aftyr  my  deseas,  founde  or 
do  founde  ....  and  indewe  withinne 
the  seid  mancion  a  collage  of  vij. 
religeous  monkys  or  pristes,  to  preye 
for  the  soules  above  seyd  in  perpetuite, 
of  whiche  one  to  be  cheif  govemour  of 
hem,  and  he  to  have  x//.,  and  iche 
othyr  prist  or  monk  [of  the  said 
co]llage  X.  marks  yeerly  for  here 
sustenaunce  and  fynding,  clerly  paid 
in  mony,  and  that  the  seyd  collagyens 
shull  be  soo  indewyd  that  be  syde  here 
seyd  pencions  for  here  propir  levynge 

to    be   grauntyd    hem,  they 

inmorteysid  to  hem  to  fynde  vij.  pore 
folke  yeerly  in  perpetuite  in  the  seyd 
mancion  of  Castre  to  preye  for  the 
soulis  above  seyd  in  perpetuite.  Of 
whiche  pore  folk  iche  of  hem  to  have 
x\s.  a  yeer  or  th  .  .  .  .  ere  levynge, 
fynding,  and  sustentacion  ;  and  that  the 
seyd  John  Paston  shall  ordeyne  and 
make  swyr  to  the  seyd  collagyens,  and 
to  the  seyd  pore  folke  a  suffecient 
summe,  and  a  competent  and  an  esy 
dwellynge  place seid  collag- 
yens nor  here  successorys  beryng  no 


HENRY  VI 


cion  of  the  seyd  priour  and  vj.  religeous 
personys  and  here  successorys,  and  for 
here  othyr  chargys  and  reparacionis, 
and  for  vij.  pore  men  in  the  seyd 
collage  in  perpetuite,  be  the  avise  and 
discrecion  of  myn  executores  forseid, 
to  be  foundyd  and  susteynid ;  and  that 
thanne  the  forseyd  fefFees  or  her  assig- 
nees if  they  ....  grauntes  of  othyr 
havyng  entresse  in  this  be  halve  requisit 
lawefuUy  shul  make,  founde,  and  stab- 
lishe,  or  doo  be  made,  founde,  and 
stablishid  in  the  seyd  collage,  with  the 
seyd  priour  and  vj.  religeous  men,  ever 
to  endure,  for  to  prey  for  my  soule  and 
for  the  soulez  of  my  fadir  and  my 
modir,  and  of  all  my  kynsefolk  and 
good  doeres,  and  for  the  soulez  of 
the  blissyd  memorye  Kynges  forseyd, 
Herry  the  Forthe  and  Herry  the  Fifte, 
and  the  seyd  noble  Dukys,  and  for 
the  good  astat  and  prosperite  of  oure 
sovereyn  Lord  durynge  hese  lyf  tyme, 
and  aftyr  for  hese  soule,  and  for  all 
Cristeyn  soules,  therefor  to  synge  and 
sey  dayli  devyne  servise  and  preyeris 
in  perpetuite ;  and  to  be  of  the  orderis, 

profFession,  obedyence,  and  governaunce  of  the  ordyr  of  Seynt  Benettes,  and  of 
the  same  ordyr  and  profession  as  been  the  monkes  of  Seynt  Benettes  in  Holme, 
in  the  counte  of  NorfFolk,  and  shalbe  stablyshid  be  the  good  avyse  of  myn 
executorys  :  And  thoo  fefFeez  forseyd,  or  here  assygnez,  inmorteyse  and  graimte, 
or  do  been  inmorteised  and  grauntid,  fefFe  sufficiently  swyrly  and  lawfully  to 
the  seyd  pryour  and  religeous,  [and  to  their]  successores,  the  forseyd  mancion 
and  dwellynge  place,  with  the  appiu'te[nances],  ....  sufficient,  swyr,  and 
deer  lyflode  of  the  for  seyd  lordshepis  maneres  ....  rentes,  servisez,  with 

here  appurtenancez  in  Castre  forseyd,  and  in  all  othir  placis lithe  next 

the  seyd  mancion  or  dwellynge  place,  for  the  sustenaunce  (^of  the]  seyd  priour 
and  vj.  religeous  men  and  here  successoris,  here  servauntis,  and  the  ^seyd]  vij. 
pore  men  :  And  for  the  chargys  and  reparacionis  forseyd,  to  the  yeerly  valew  of 
thre  hundryd  markes  starlyng  over  all  chargys ;  to  have  and  to  holde  to  the 
forseyd  religeous  men  and  to  here  successoris  for  ever  ;  providid  alwey  that  the 
seyd  priour  and  religeous  men  and  here  successoris  be  bounden  and  compellabill 
suffijciently  in  lawe  be  the  discrecion  of  my  seyd  executoris,  to  susteyne  the  for- 
seyd vij.  pore  men  contynwally,  suffeciently,  and  convenyently  in  all  thyngis 
withinne  the  seyd  collage  for  ever,  and  for  to  preye  for  the  soulys  afore 
seyd.l  * 

"""[Item,  I  will  and  graunte  that  if  outhyr  the  forseyd  licence  and  graunte  of 

149 


reparacion  there  of,  for  whiche  and  for 
othyr  consyderacionis  above  seyd,  I 
will,  graunte,  and  ordeyne  that  the 
seyd  John  Paston  shall  have  in  fee 
symple,  to  hy[m  and  his  heirs]  all  the 
manerez,  londes,  and  tenementes  in 
Norffolk,  Suffialk,  and  Norwiche  in 
whiche  the  seyd  John  Paston  or  ony 
othyr  to  myn  use  are  or  were  feffyd  in 
or  have  title  to,  and  that  all  feffeez 
feffyd  in  the  seyd  manerez,  londes, 
and  .  .  .  er  astat  of  the  seyd  manerez, 
londes,  and  tenementes  to  suche  per- 
sonys, and  at  suche  tymes  and  in  suche 
fourme  as  the  seyd  Paston,  hise  heyris 
or  his  assigneez,  shall  requyre  hem,  or 
ony  of  hem.       And   the  seyd  John 

Paston seyd  collage  shal  here 

and  paye  to  my  behoff,  towardes  the 
paymentys  of  my  dettes  and  othir 
thynges,  be  my  present  will  assygnid 
to  be  do,  m'm^m'm'-  [4000]  mark,  in 
suche  fourme  and  at  suche  tyme  as  in 

this   my   present    will 

here  aftir  folwyng : — 


NOV.  3 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


1459 

NOV.  3 


oure  seyd  sovereyn  Lord,  or  of  hise  hey  re  Kynges,  or  the  licence  or  graunt  of 
ony  othyr  ....  entresse  in  this  behalve  be  not  lawefully,  swyrly,  and  sufFe- 

ciently that  thanne  my  seid  executorys  shall  geve  or  do  be  gove 

to of  the  monastery  of  Seynt  Benettes  of  Holme  for  seyd,  lyflode 

or  mony  competent seyd  abot  and  covent  or  here  successorys,  and  my 

seyd  executores  shal  accorde  there  in  be  here  wise  discrecionis,  for  the  indewe- 
ment  and  sustentacion  of  vj.  monkes  in  the  seyd  monastery  and  vij.  pore  men  in 
the  same  monastery,  to  prey  for  the  soulys  forseyd  in  perpetuite,  to  be  foundyd, 
susteynid,  and  kept,  providid  that  the  vj.  monkes  forseyd  be  aumentyd  abovyn 
the  noumbre  of  monkes  of  here  ferst  fundacion,  and  over  the  noumbre  that  they 
now  use  to  kepe  in  the  seyd  monastery,  and  that  lawefuU  and  agreable  swyrte 
perpetualy  be  made  be  the  avyse  of  myn  seyd  executores,  aswell  for  the  augmen- 
tacion,  susteyning,  and  kepynge  of  the  seyd  vj.  monkys,  as  for  the  convenyent 
and  sufFecient  sustentacion,  fyndyng,  and  kepyng  of  the  seyd  vij.  pore  men  in 
perpetuite,  to  preye  as  is  afore  seyd. 

IFirst  Draft.2  [Second  Draft.'] 

*[It]em,  I  will   and  ordeyne  that  Item,  I  wyll,  ordeyne,  and  graunte 

all   and   singuler  lordshepis,  maneres,  that  all  othir  lorshepis,  manerez,  londes, 

londes,  and  tenementes,  [renjtes,  and  and  tenementes,  rentes,  and   servisez, 

servisez,  with  here  appurtenauncez,  in  with  here  appurtenaunce,  in  whiche  ony 

whiche   ony  persone  or   personys  are  persone  or  personis  been  feffid  in,  or 

feffid  in  or  have  astat  and  possession  have  astat  or  possession,  or  be  in  titlid 

to    myn    use,    in    whiche    sum   ever  to   myn  use   be  the  lawe,  except  the 

counteez  or  townez  the  said  lordshepis,  seyd  manerez,  londes,  and  tenementes, 

maneres,  londes,  and  tenementes,  rentes,  rentes,  and  servisez,  with  here  appur- 

and  servisez  bein  withinne  the  ream  tenauncez,  in  the  shirez  of  Norffolk, 

of  Englond ;  and  that  all  the  forseyd  Suffolk,  and  Norwiche,  in  the  article 

and     senguler     lordshepys,     manerez,  next  presedent  specified,  shull  be  sold 

tenementes,  rentes,  and  servisez,  with  be  the  seyd  John  Paston  and  Thomas 

here    appurtenaunce,    in    whiche    ony  Howys,  ij.  of  myn  executoris.     And 

person    or   personys   been    intitlyd    to  I  will,  graunte,  and  ordeyne  that  the 

myn  use  be  the  lawe,   shull   be  sold  seyd   John    and    Thomas,    and    noon 

be  my  seyd  executoris,  except  manerez,  othir  while  they  Icve,  shall  have  the 

londes,    and    tenementes,    rentes,    and  sengler  rewle,  sale,  and  disposecion  of 

servisez,  with  here  appurtenauncez,  as  all  my  londes  forseyd,  except  before 

shall  be  morteysyd  to  the  seyd  collage,  except,  and  execucion  of  this  my  last 

if  the  fundacion  thereof  take  efFecte  :  will  and  of  every  article  there  in  ;  and 

And  that  the  mony  of  the  sale  or  salys  I  will  that  the  seid  John  and  Thomas 

comynge    be    disposed    be    my    seyd  shall  have  all  the  profitez  and  avaylez 

executores  in  executyng  of  thys  my  and  emolwements  of  the  seyd  maneris, 

last  wyll  and  testament,  and  in  othyr  londes,    and    tenementes,    rentes,    and 

dedes  of  almesse  as  my  seyd  executores  servisez,    with    all    othir    comoditeez 

be  here  discrecion   shal  seme  best  to  thereof  comyng,  til   be  them  they  be 

plese  God  for  the  helthe  of  my  soule  sold,  and  the  mony  of  the  profites  and 

and  for  the  soulys  forseyd :  And  that  salis  thereof  comynge,  be  them  to  be 

happe  the  fundacion  of  the  seyd  collage  disposed  for  the  welfare  of  my  soule 

150 


HENRY  VI 

to  take  to  noon  effecte,  nor  the  seyd     and  of  the  soulez  forseyd  duryng  the     1 459 

collage  foundyd,  that  thanne  the  lord-     lyf  of  the  seyd  John  and  Thomas  ;  and     uov.  3 

shepis,  londes,  and  tenementes,  rentes,     in  cas  this  my  will  be  not  executyd  in 

and  servise,  with  here  appurtenancez,     theyre    piv^es,  that  thanne  the   exe- 

whiche  shul  bee  assygnid  to  the  seyd     cucion  be  thereof  doon  be  othyr  myn 

morteysyng,   also    shull  be   sold    [be     executores   that   aftyr   hem   too   shal 

myjn  executores,  and  the  mony  there-     have  the  mynistracion  of  my  goodes. 

of  comyng  to  be  disposed  be  ["^ynj 

executores  in  executyng  and  parform- 

ynge  of  my  will  and  testament,  and  in 

othyr  dedes  of  mercy,  pite,  and  almesse  as  shal  seme  best  to  my  seyd  executores 

for  the  soulez  afore  seyd  and  the  soulys  undyr  wretyn.3* 

*[Item,  I  will  and  ordeyne  that  my  seyd  executoris  shull  take  and  have 
all  the  issews,  avaylez,  profitez,  and  emolwementes  of  all  and  senguler  lord- 
shepys,  manerez,  londes,  tenementes,  rentes,  and  servisez  forseyd,  with  here 
appurtenaunce,  excepte  before  except,  to  be  geve  to  the  seyd  collage,  on  to 
tyme  they  be  sold  feithefully  and  trewly  be  my  seyd  executores ;  and  on  to 
tyme  that  they  that  shull  be  purchasorys  be  feithefull  and  trewe  bargeyne  thereof 
made  be  twene  hem  and  my  seid  executorys,  shull  take  and  have  the  issewes, 
profitez,  avayles,  and  emolwementes,  withoute  fraude  or  male  ingyne.  And 
also  I  wyll  and  ordeyne  that  my  forseyd  executores  shull  take  and  have  all  the 
issewys,  profitez,  avayles,  and  emolwementes  of  all  and  senguler  aforn  except 

1 londes,  tenementes,  rentes,  servisez,  with  here  appurtenauncez,  on  to 

tyme and   vj.   religeous   men   or   here   successoris,   if  the   forseyd 

admynistracion shull  have   and   take   lawefuU   and   feithfull   estat 

beforce  of  the  seyd  inmortey8[^yng]],  or  ellys  that  they  be  feithfully  and  trewly 
accordid  with  my  seid  executorys  for  the  takyng  and  havyng  of  the  issewes, 
profitez,  and  avayles,  and  emolwementes  withoute  fraud  or  male  ingyne.  And 
if  the  seyd  inmorteysyng  take  noon  effecte,  I  will  and  ordeyne  that  my  seyd 
executores  shull  have  and  take  all  and  senguler  issewys,  profitez,  avayles,  and 
emolwementes  of  the  forseyd  except  lordshepys,  londes,  manerez,  and  tenementes, 
rentes,  and  servicez,  with  here  appurtenaunces,  tyl  they  be  feithefully  and  trewly 
sold  be  my  seyd  executores,  unto  tyme  that  they  that  shalbe  purchasorys  thereof, 
be  feithefull  and  trewe  bargayne  be  twene  them  and  my  seyd  executores  thereof 
made,  shull  take  thoo  issewys,  profitez,  and  avaylez,  and  emolwements  thereof, 
withoute  fraude  or  male  ingyne.  And  I  will  and  ordeyne  that  my  seyd 
executores  shull  dispose  all  and  senguler  issewys,  profitez,  avaylez,  and  emolwe- 
mentes afornseyd  for  my  soule,  and  for  the  soulys  aforn  rehersyd,  as  they  shall 
seme  beste  to  the  plesure  of  God.]* 

Item,  forasmyche  as  it  is  seyd  that  dyverse  personis  of  dyverse  desentes 

pretende at  this  day  to  be  next  heneritere  [^inheriior']  to  me  aftyr 

my  deseas,  where knowe  that  no  creature  hathe  title 

or  right  to  inheryte  ony londes  and  tenementes,  rentes, 

and  servisez  that  ever  I  hadde,  or  ony  persone  or  personys have  to 

myn  use ;  therfor  I  will  and  ordeyne  that  no  persone  nor  personis  as  hey  .  .  . 
me  for  no  douteful  or  obskure  materes  conteynid  in  this  my  present  will,  nor 
for  noon  othyr,  shall  take  ony  maner  of  avauntage,  benefice,  or  profit  be  ony 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

'459  "^^^ncr  nieanys  or  weyes,  of  ony  rqanerez,  lordshepis,  londes,  tenementes,  rentes, 
NOV.  3     servisez,  goodes,  or  catellys  that  were  myn  at  ony  tyme. 

Item,  I  will  and  ordeyne  and  graunte  that  myn  executoris  [l>efore  namyd], 
or  the  more  part  of  them  ^  and  noon  othir,  shall  have  the  decleracion  and  inter- 
pretacion  of  all  and  senguler  articles,  chapetris,  clausis,  whiche  and  wordes  in 
this  my  last  will  hadde  and  wretyn,  in  whiche  articlis,  chapetris,  clausis,  and 
wordes  ony  doute  or  doutez,  dirknesse  or  dyversite  of  undirstondyng  shall  falle 
or  happe  to  be  founde,  and  that  no  persone  or  personys  be  reson  of  suche 
articlys,  chapetris,  clausys,  or  wordes,  have  or  take  ony  profit  or  avauntage 
othyr  wise  thanne  aftyr  the  maner  and  fourme  of  declaracion  and  interpretacion 
of  my  seyd  [too  namydj  ^  executors. 

Item,  I  will,  ordeyne,  and  comaunde  that  all  my  dettes  that  is  ovirynge  [be] 
me  be  dewe  examynacion  be  fully  payd  and  contentyd  to  the  creditoris,  which 
can  be  foundyn  dewe  that  is  owynge  be  me ;  and  also  that  all  wronges,  trespacis, 
ofFencis,  and  grevys  be  me  doon  or  comyttid,  if  ony  bee,  that  ony  maner  persone 
hathe  been  hyndryd  or  damagid  wrongfully,  if  ony  suche  bee  that  can  sufFeciently 
and  lawefully  be  previd  and  knowe,  I  wyll  fyrst  be  fore  all  othyr  thinges  it  be 
speed  that  myn  executores  do  make  amendes,  restitucion,  and  satisfaction  to 
thoo  personys  or  to  here  executorys  by  me  damagyd  and  hyndred  as  concience 
and  good  feithe  requyreth. 

Item,  I  will  and  ordeyne  that  in  every  town  in  which  I  or  ony  to  myn  use 
have  lordshepys,  manerez,  londes,  and  tenementes  that  the  pore  pepyl  of  the 
tenure  of  the  seyd  town  have  ij.  yeer  to  gethyr  in  reward  after  theyre  afferaunt 
and  quantite  of  the  x.  part  of  oon  yeerly  valewe  and  reveneuse  of  the  seyd 
[lor3d8hepis,  manerez,  londes,  tenementes,  and  rentes,  halfe  to  be  departyd 
to  .  .  [parjishe  cherchis  for  werkys,  ornamentes,  and  othyr  thjmges  necessarye 
to  the  seyd  chyrchis,  and  half  to  be  departyd  amonges  the  seyd  pore  pepil  that 
be  tenauntes  ^  of  the  seid  lordshepis,  maneres,  londes,  and  tenementes  soo  to  be 
disposed  aftyr  the  discrecion  of  myn  executores  [before  namyd],*  aftyr  my  will 
approvid,  and  my  dettes  payd. 

Item,  I  will  and  ordeyne  that  the  pryour  of  the  prioury  of  the  parishe 
cherch  of  Jernerauth  for  the  tyme  beynge,  and  hese  covent  and  hise  successorys, 
observe  and  kepe  yeerly  and  perpetualy  to  endure  an  annversary  in  the  seyd 
parishe  cherche  for  to  preye  for  the  soule  of  my  fadyr,  John  Fastolf,  Squyer, 
that  lythe  buryed  there  in  the  seyd  chyrche,  with  placebo  and  derige  and  messe, 
be  note  the  vigyl  and  day  of  hese  obit,  with  the  noumbre  of  prystes  and  clerkes 
accordyng  in  such  a  cause ;  and  for  to  susteyne  the  kepyng  of  the  seyd 
annversary,  I  will  that  be  the  avise  of  myn  executorys  [before  namyd]  *  that 

londes  or  teneme[ntes] ordeynid  to  the  yeerly  valewe  of 

xx/.,  and  that  to  be  inmorteis swyr  to  the  seyd  prioury  or 


*  Or  the  more  part  of  them. — These  words  are  crossed  out.    The  words  '  before 
namyd '  are  an  interlineation  substituted  for  them  by  the  second  hand. 

*  Interlineation  by  second  hand. 

3  'fermors'  inserted  in  a  different  hand. 

*  Interlined  by  second  hand. 

152 


HENRY  VI 

parishe   chyrche,  oonly  to  susteyne   and  here and  chargys  of  the     1 459 

perpetuall  kepyng  and  susteyning  of  the  seyd  annversary.  nov.  3 

Item,  I  will  and  ordeyne  that  if  I  have  ony  reliquis  of  Seyntes,  also  suche 
oraamentes  for  the  chirche,  that  I  have  left  as  vestmentes,  garlementes  of  sylke 
or  velwet,  of  robis,  and  my  gownys,  that  parcell  of  hem  be  yovin  to  the  seyd 
monastery  cherche  of  Seynt  Benettes,  where  I  shal  be  buryed,  to  remayne  for 
ornament  of  the  chapell  there  be  me  late  edified ;  and  also  part  of  hem  to  be 
distrubited  amonges  the  parishe  chyrchis  that  be  in  suche  townes  that  I  have 
ony  lordshipis,  manerez,  londes,  tenementes,  and  rentes,  provided  that  a  reson- 
able  and  a  competent  part  of  the  seyd  reliquis  and  ornamentes  be  kept  and  govyn 
to  the  seyd  collage  to  be  made  at  Castre,  and  this  to  be  doon  be  the  avise  of 
myn  executores  be  fore  namyd.^ 

Item,  I  will  and  ordeyne  that  suche  of  my  consanguinite  and  kynred  whyche 
be  pore  and  have  but  litil  substaunce  to  leve  by,  that  they  be  relevyd  of  my 

goodes havyng  consederation  to  thoo  that  be  nerrest  of  my  kyn  and 

of Also  of  here  good  disposecion  too  God  ward  and  to  me  in  here 

othir  of  my  kyn,  that  a  consyderacion  be  hadde  and  yovyn  to  the 

relyf  and  prefer[ment]  of  my  cosyn  Robert  Fitzraf,  for  hese  good,  trewe  and 
long  servise  to  me  doon  and  contynwyd,  and  alsoo  be  reson  of  my  consanguynite 
and  kynred. 

Item,  I  will  and  ordeyne  that  if  ony  persone  make  ony  compleynt  to  myn 
executores  that  I  have  purchasyd  ony  taylid  londes  be  this  my  will  ordeynid 
to  be  sold  ,2  and  that  thoo  personys  that  so  compleyne  doo  sufFeciently  and 
evydently  prove  and  shewe  withoutyn  ony  collucion,  fraude,  or  male  ingyne 
suche  londes  taylid ;  thanne  I  will  that  the  right  heyris  purchase  as  be  suche 
taylid  londes,  if  ony  be  in  my  possession  or  in  my  feffeez  handes,  and  that  for 

a is  thanne  ony  othir  persone  after  the  avyse  and  discrecion  of  the 

seid  John  Paston  and  Thomas  Howis,  clerk,  and  where  there  be  no  lawefull . 
answere  nor  debarre  of  the  tayle.^ 

Item,  I  will  and  ordeyne  that  the  holy  place  of  monastery  and  abbathye 
of  oure  Ladyiz  chirche  of  Langley,  in  the  diocise  of  Norwiche,  for  my  soule  to 
be  more  specialy  recommendyd,  and  also  for  to  kepe  and  susteyne,  one  day  in 
the  yeer,  myn  annversary  solempnely  be  note  the  derige  and  messe  of  requyem 
iot  ever  to  endure  for  the  helthe  of  my  soule  and  for  the  soule  of  Dame  Milcent, 
my  wif,  the  doutyr  of  Sir  Robert  Tibetot,  Knyght,  whiche  was  of  the  con- 
sanguynite and  kyn  to  the  foundorys  of  the  seyd  monastery,  and  she  owyng  a 
senguler  afFeccion  and  love  of  devocion  to  the  preyeris  of  that  place,  that  the 
Abot  and  Covent  have  a  reward  and  a  remuneracion  of  ray  mevable  goodes 
aftyr  the  discrecion  of  myn  executores  before  namyd. 

Item,  I  will  and  ordeyne  that  be  the  avise  of  myn  executorys  before 
namyd,  that  prevecion  and  ordenaunce  be  made  that  the  obit  and  annversary 
may  be  yeerly  inperpetuite  kept  with  placebo  and  derige  and  messe  of  requiem 
benote  for  the  soule  of  Dame  Mary,  my   modir,  in  the  chirche  of  Attil- 

1  before  namyd. — These  words  are  an  interlineation  by  another  hand. 

'  be  this  my  ivUI  ordeynid  to  be  sold,  interlined  by  another  hand. 

'  after  the  arvyse — tayle. — These  words  are  an  interlineation  by  the  second  hand. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

14  C  9     burgh,  ^Qand  a  fundacion  of  a  niesse  {^Second  Draft. ~\ 

NOV.  7.  there,  or  in  othyr  convenyent  place  to  *  and  that  oon  of  the  monkis  or  pristes 
be  morteysid,  for  ever  to  seye  and  in  the  collage  be  me  ordeynid  in  the 
preye  for  here  soule  and  for  here  mancion  of  Castre  forseid  shall  synge 
auncetryez  aftyr  the  discrecion  of  myn  specialy  in  perpetuite  for  the  soule  of 
executorys.3*  my  modir   and  all  here   auncestryez, 

and  good  dooerys. 

Item,  I  will  and  ordeyne  that  it  be  provided  by  myn  executores  before 
namyd  a  reward  as  a  yefte  be  made  to  the  chapell  of  Seynt  Jorge  in  the  Castill 
of  Wyndishore,  and  to  the  collagyens  of  the  same  collage  for  to  have  my  soule 

recomendid   amonges with   an    annversary    to    be    kept   yeerly    and 

perpetualy  amonges  hem  with  placebo  and  [der'tge  and]  messe  of  requyem  be 
note.i 

Item,  I  will,  ordeyne,  and  comaunde 
that  myn   [executores  and^  ^  feffeez*  [Second  Draft.~\ 

porsewe  lawfully   my  right  and  title     *  be    the    avise    of    myn    executores 
that  I  have  in  xxv.  marke  of  yeerly     before  namyd 
rente,   with   all  the   areragis   that    of 
right  and   concience  is  dewe  to   my 

feffeez  feffyd  there  in  to  myn  use  to  dispose  for  my  soule  helthe  chargyd  and 
payable  out  of  a  maner  in  Hiklyng,  callid  Nethyrhalle,  with  the  priour  and 
covent  of  Hiklyng  for  the  tyme  beyng,  be  bounden  and  astrict  be  wryting  undyr 
here  covent  sealys  to  paye  yeerly.  And  on  lyke  wise  I  wyll  that  pursewt  be 
made  be  Parlement  or  othyrwise  lawefull  for  redressyng  of  the  wrong  doon  to 
me  in  the  maner  of  Bradwell,  in  the  hundrid  of  Lodynglond  in  Suffolk,  whiche 
I  purchasid  trewly,  and  hadde  a  lawefull  astat  in  the  same  maner,  as  myn 
evydence  woll  shewe  of  record,  xl.  yeer  past ;  and  for  to  redresse  the  wrong 

full  entre  doon my  feffeez  in  the  maner  of  Dedham  Nethirhalle  by 

Willyam,  late  Duke  of  Suff[olkJ,  as  well  as  for  the  wrongfull  entre  eftsonys 
and  late  made  upon  serteyn  personys  feffyd  to  myn  use  in  the  seyd  maner,  now 
of  latter  tyme  ;  And  that  myn  executores  doo  dewly  here  deligence  aboute  the 
recovery  and  getyng  ageyn  of  the  seyd  manerez,  lond[es],  and  tenementes  and 
rentes  above  seyd  of  my  goodes  to  be  born. 

Item,  I  will  and  ordeyne  that  the  wardeyn  and  the  procutoris  for  the  tyme 
beyng  of  the  parishe  chirche  of  Seynt  Oloff  in  Suthewerk,  be  London  Brege, 
beyeng  to  the  use  of  the  seyd  chirche  of  Seynt  OlofF,  be  preferryd,  in  beyeng 
and  purchasyng  of  myn  executorys  before  namyd,  a  tenement  with  a  warff  there- 
to longyng,  set  be  the  seyd  chirche,  callyd  the  Bukheed,  before  ony  man,  and 
for  a  lesse  valewe  than  it  is  worthe  withine  the  sum  of  xx//. 

Item,  I  will  that  a  convenyent  stoon  of  marbill  and  a  flat  fygure,  aftyr  the 
facion  of  an  arniyd  man,  be  made  and  gravyn  in  the  seyd  stoon  in  laton  in 
memoryall  of  my  fadyr,  John  Fastolf,  Squyer,  to  be  leyd  upon  hese  toumbe  in 
the  chapell  of  Seynt  Nicholas,  in  the  parishe  chirche  of  Jernemuth,  and  with 
my  skochonys  of  armys  of  hym  and  hese  auncestryez,  with  a  scripture  aboute 
the  stoon  makynge  mencioD  the  day  and  yeer  of  hise  obite. 


*  tjoith  an  annversary — note,  erased.  ^  Erased. 


HENRY  VI 

Item,  I  will  that  in  semblable  wise  a  marble  stoon  of  a  convenyent  me  .  .  .      1 459 

made  to  be  leyd  upon  the  toumbe  of  Dame  Mary,  my  modyr,  in     ^Qy^  , 

the foundid  in  the  parishe  chyrche  of  Atilburgh,  and  that  a 

figure of  a  jentilwoman  with  here  mantil,  with  a  scripture 

made  of  laton  in  on iiij.  skochonys  of  armys  of  here  iij.  husbondes, 

as  the  skochon  of  Thomas  Mortimer,  Knight,  [John]  Fastolf,  Squyer,  the 
seconde  husbonde,  and  of  John  Farwell,  Squyer,  the  thridde  husbonde, 
auncetryez  in  the  seyd  toumbe,  and  the  day  and  yeer  of  here  obite  to  be  wretyn 
aboute. 

*  [Item,   I  will  that  a  provecion 
be  made  for  swerte  of  the  maner  of 

Cowlynge   in    Suffolk,    accordyng   to  \_Second  Draft.~\ 

the     last     wyll     of     Dame     Marget  Item,  that  myn  executores  before 

Braunche,  my  sustir,  in  whiche  maner     namyd  helpe  that  the  maner  of  Cow- 

I  stond  enfeffed  in  to  here  use,  and     lynge  be  disposed    and   guydid   aftyr 

serteyn  londes  in  the  seyd  Cowlynge     the  will  of  Dame  Marget  Brannche, 

that   Dame    Mary,    my   modir,    pur-     my  sastir,  if  my  executoris  thynke  it 

chasyd  to  here  and  to  hire  heirez,  that     be  to  doo. 

Herry    Braunche,    my    neweu,    here 

son    ....    seyd    maner,    provided 

that  he  be  oblygid  to  preye  for  hise  fadir,  Sir  Philip  Br[aunche,  and  his] 

modir,  Dame  Marget,  serteyn  preyeris  and  messez,  with  a  prist,  to  be  con- 

tynw[aly3  seyd  QbeJ  the  discrecyon  of  myn  executorys.]* 

Item,  I  will  and  ordeyne  that  the  executores  of  John  Wellys,  aldreman  of 
London,  whiche  hadde  gret  goodes  of  myne  in  hise  governaunce  whil  I  was  in 
the  partyez  of  Fraunce  and  Normandye,  and  hadde  never  opyn  declaracion  to 
whos  handes  of  my  resseyvoris  atturnyez,  or  servauntes  of  myne  the  seyd  goodes 
were  delyvered  particlerly,  and  for  that  cause  to  be  aserteynid  of  the  trouthe 
in  this  be  halve,  as  well  as  for  the  dyscharge  of  the  seyd  John  Wellys  soule,  his 
executores  and  attornyez  may  yeve  accompt,  soo  declaryng  of  my  seyd  goodes 
accordyng  to  the  trouthe  and  concience. 

*  [Item,  to  be  providyd,  if  it  be  thowght  comodiously  that  it  may  be  doon 
-be  myn  executores,  that  a  chauntry  may  be  foundyd  in  the  chyrche  of  Seynt 

OlofF,  be  London  Brege,  in  Southewerk,  to  prey  for  my  soule  perpetualy.]  * 

Item,  I  will  and  requyre  that  it  be  knowyn  to  all  pepill  present  and  for 
to  come  that  where  afore  thys  tyme  whil  I  dwellyd  and  excersysed  the  werrys 
in  Fraunce,  Normandye,  Angoy,  and  Mayne,  as  in  Gyen,  havyng  undir  the 
K5mg,  myn  sovereyn  Lord,  officez  and  governauncez  of  cuntreez  and  placis, 
as  of  castilys,  fortreys,  citeez,  and  townes  be  xxx.  yeer  and  more  contynwed, 

be  reson  of  whiche  officez many  sealis  of  myn  armys  gravyn  with  my 

name  wretyn  aboutyn course  (?)  in  the  seyd  castilys  and 

fortreycez  that  my  lef  tenauntes  and officerz  beyng  in  dyverse  suche 

placis  ocupied  undyr  me  the  sealys  and  sygnettes  to  scale  saf  conduytez  and 
billettes  of  saf  gardes,  and  othyr  wrytinges  of  justice  longyng  to  suche  officez  of 
werre ;  and  I  doutyng  that  summe  of  the  forseyd  sealys  of  armys  or  sygnettes 
remayne  stille  amonges  myn  officeres  or  personys  not  delyvered  to  me  ageyn, 
and   that  with  the  sealys  of  armys  and  signettes  ony  monwements,  chartrys. 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1459     dedes,  letterys   patentes,  blankes   chartrys  in  parchemyn  or  paper,  or   othyr 

NOV.  3     evydence  forgyd  and  contryved  withoute  my  knowynge  or  assent,  myght  soo  be 

sealyd  ageyn  all  concience  and  trouthe  and  ryghtwisenesse  ;  and  for  these  causez, 

and  for  doute  of  ony  inconvenyent  that  myghte  falle  be  this  my  wrytinge,  I 

sertefie  for  trouthe  and  afFerme  on  my  soule,  I  swere  and  proteste  that  sethe  I 

cam  last  out  of  Fraunce  and  Normandye,  xix.  yeere  passed,  I  never  sealyd 

wrytinge  of  charge,  yefte,  nor  graunte 

with    noon  othyr   seal  of  armys  nor 

sygnet  thanne  *[with  this  same  seal  r-^        ,  ^     -.  -. 

of  armys  and  sygnet jtT,  j     i-     ••  j       1 

^,-        ■'  /    -11      J         1    ,.  .    ^  i  have  usyd  this  11.  yeer  day  last 

this  my  present  will  and  my  last  testa-  ,  ■'  •'    ■'  ^ 

ment],*   and   overmore   that   I    have     '^ 

enselyd  no  [charge]  yefte,  nor  graunte 

be  the  space  of  xix.   yeer  with  noo 

seal  nor  sygnet,  of  noo  lordshype,  maner,  nor  manerez,  annuite,  reversionis,  nor 

of  no  yiftes  nor  grauntes  of  goodes  and  cattellys,  mevable  and  on  mevable,  nor 

mony,  excepte  suche  as  I  have  made  opynly  to  be  knowyn,  executyd,  and  put  in 

pocession  be  fore  this  day.     Wherfore  I  requyre all  Cristyn  peple 

to  yeve  noo  feithe  nor  credence  to  ony  pryvat  wryting  not  opynly  declarid  nor 

provid    in    my  lif  tyme,  nor  to   blanke   chartrys    sealyd  in  my 

whereof  I  remerabre  me  well  that  oon  John  Wyntir,  Esquyer,  late  my  servaunt, 

hadde  (?)  in  kepyng  a  blanke  letter  in  parchemyn  ensealyd  ondyr  my  seal,  and 

never  delyvered  it  me  ageyn,  but  seyde  he  hadde  lost  it  at  hyse  confecion,  as 

wryting  ondyr  hise  owyn  hande  maketh  mencyon  or  he  deyde. 

Item,  I  will  and  ordeyne  that  myn  houshold  be  holdyn  and  kept  with  my 
menyal  servauntz  be  the  space  of  half  yeer  aftyr  my  deseas,  soo  as  they  wyll  be 
trewe  to  me  and  obedyent  to  myn  executorys,  and  here  wages  for  that  tyme 
payd,  and  that  in  the  meane  tyme  they  purvey  hem  for  othyr  servise  as  they  lyke 
best  to  avise  to  leve  in  trouthe ;  and  if  ony  servaunt  be  well  governyd  and  holde 
ageyns  my  ...  or  ageyn  myn  executorys  to  breke  my  good  disposecion,  I 
wypl  that  he  shall  be  ?]  remevyd,  and  that  he  abyde  noo  lenger  among  the 

fel trewly  avoydid  withoutyn  ony  reward  of  me  or  of  myn 

ex[]ecutores3. 

*   [Item,  I  will  and  ordeyne  that  [^Second  Draft.'] 

amonges    othyr   lordes,   frendes,   and  Item,    I    will    and    ordeyne   that 

kynesmen  that  I  desyre,  [for]  the  amonges  othir  that  I  have  put  in  re- 
discharge  of  my  concience,  be  put  in  membraunce  be  this  my  will  to  be 
remembraunce  of  preyeris  for  the  preyed  fore  that  suche  as  shalbe 
[good]  afFeccion  I  hadde  on  to  them  bounden  to  preye  for  me,  and  be  re- 
that  I  desyre  shuld  be  preyed  fore,  wardid  of  myn  almesse,  shalbe  chargid 
is  the  soule  of  that  blyssyd  prynce,  be  myn  executoris  be  fore  namyd  to 
Thomas  Bedford,^  late  Duke  of  Ex-  preye  for  the  welfare  of  m[y]  soverayn 
cestre,  the  soulys  of  the  Lord  Tibtot,  Lord  the  Kyng,  and  for  the  soulys  of 
RaufF,  Lord  Crumwell,  Sir  John  all  my  good  lordes  and  kynsefolk,  and 
Radclife,   my    brothyr-in-lawe,    and     of  thoo  I  am  b[ounden]  to  preye  fore 

*  Beaufort. 

156 


HENRY  VI 


or  doo  preye  fore,  and  for  hem  that  I 
have  hadde  ony  goodes  of. 


Dame  Cisly,  late  hyse  wifF,  my  sustyr, 
whiche  lithe  buryed  at  Burdeux ;  Sir 
Philip  Braunche,  Knyght,  my  brothyr- 
in-law,  that   deyde  and  was  slayn   in 

Fraunce,  and  Dame  Marget,  late  hyse  wif,  my  sustyr,  buryed  at  Cowlynge  ;  also 
John  Farwell,  Squyer,  my  fadyer-in-lawe ;  Sir  Herry  Inglose,  Knyght,  of  my 
consangwynite  ;  Sir  Hewe  Fastolf,  Knyght,  that  deyde  in  Cane  in  Normandy e; 
Sir  Robert  Harlynge,  Knyght,  my  neveu,  that  was  slayn  at  the  sege  of  Seynt 
Denys  in  Fraunce ;  John  Fitzraf,  Squyer,  my  neveu ;  Cisly,  late  the  wif  of 
Herry  Fylongley,  my  nese,  also  late  desesyd ;  Dame  [^Dan^  Willyam  Fastolf, 
of  my  consanguynite,  prophessyd  in  the  monastery  of  Seynt  Benettes,  and  aftyr 
Abot  of  Fescamp  in  Normandye,  whiche  deide  at  Parys ;  Mathew  Gowgh, 
Squyer,  Thomas  Gower,  Squyer,  John  Sale  (?),  marchaunt  of  Paryse,  my 
trusty  frend  and  servaunt,  and  for  the  soule  of  John  Kyrtlyng,  parson  of 
Arkesey,  my  right  trusty  chapeleyn  and  servaunt  domysticall  xxx.  wynter  and 
more,  Thomas  Hoddeson,  a  trusty  servaunt  of  myne,  John  Lyndford,  and 
William  Gunnour.]  * 

Item,  I  will,  ordeyne,  and  streyghtly  charge  myn  executorys  that  noon  of 
hem  shall  [givej  quyetaunce  nor  rellesse  in  no  wise  be  hym  self,  nor  be  noon 
othir,  to  noon  of  my  detorys,  nor  to 


H59 

NOV.  3 


[Second  Draft."] 
*  full  wyll  and  assentynge  of  the  seyd 
John    Paston    and    Thomas   Howys, 
clerk. 


dettour  of  myn  executoris,  of  what  so 
ever  of  astat  or  condecion  that  he  be 
of,  withoute  the  *  [knowynge,  ples- 
saunce,  and  assentynge  of  all  myn 
executorys,  or  the  more  part  of 
hem.]  * 

Item,  I  will,  ordeyne,  and  streightly  charge  that  none  of  myn  executorys, 
be  him  self,  nor  be  noon  othyr,  in  ony  maner  or  condecion  cautelous,  colour 

shall  sell,  nor  doo  selle,  alyen,  nor  doo  alyen,  withdrawe,  or  do 

be  []withdra3  we,  my  londes  and  tenementes,  jowellys  of  gold  or  sylvir,  dettes 
or  cattelys,  vesselys  or  vestmentes  of 
sylke,  lynen,  or  wollyn,  or  ony  othyr 
utensylez,  to  my  persone  or  houshold 
perteyning,  nor  noon  othyr  goodes  of 
myne,  mevable  or  on  mevablys,  quyk 
or  ded,  generaly  or  specialy,  withoute 
*  [the  knowyng,  plessaunce,  and  as- 
sentynge of  all  myn  executorys,  or 
the  more  part  of  hem ;  and  if  it  be 
soo  that  ony  of  myn  executores  at- 
tempte  maleciously  the  contrary  in 
effecte,  he  fallith  in  the  centense  of 
excommunicacion,  doyng  the  contrary 
to  my  last  will.]  * 

Item,  I  will, ordeyne,  and  streyghtly 
charge  that  all  my  fefFeez  feffyd  of 
trust  on  to  myn  use  of  and  in  all  my 


[Second  Draft.] 
*  the  very  will  and  assentyng  of  the 
seyd  Paston  and  Howys,  and  that 
noon  othyr  attempte  there  in  nor  in 
noon  othir  cause  in  this  my  will  to 
doo  the  contrarye  to  hem  in  CfFecte  J 
require  hem  in  Goddes  be  halve. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


14  C9     manerez,  lordshepis,  londe8,tenemente8, 
NOT.  3     and  rentes,  and  servisez,  and  profitez, 

be  me  or  othyr  to  myn  use  purchasyd  [Second  Draft.'] 

*  [in  all  maner  of  counteez,  citeez,  or     *  except  before  except,  be  me  grauntid 

burghes  or  townes  with  in  the   ream     to    the    seyd    John    Paston    or    hese 

of  Eng[lond] ]  *  they  that     assygnes. 

have  astat,  pocession,  or  tythe  to  myn 

use,  with  all  the  goodly  haste,   .... 

and  withoute  delay  aftyr  they  be  re- 

quyred  be  myn  executores  *  aftyr  my     *  before  narayd. 

deseas,  that  they  shall  fefFyn  and  make 

lawefull  astat  in  fee  symple  *  [of  and 

in  all  maner  lordshipys,  londes,  tene- 

mentes,    meswages,    rentes,    servisez, 

and    profitez    forseyd,    or    of    every 

parcel!  of  the  same]  *  to  that  persone  \Second  Draft.] 

or  personys  to  whom  or  to  whiche  *[my     *  the  seid  John  Paston  and  Thomas 

seid    executores   in   accomplisment  of     Howys. 

my  last  will,  the  said  maneres,  lord- 

shepys,     londes,     tenementes,     mecis, 

rentes,  and  servisez,  or  ony  parcell  of 

the  same,*  shall  sell,  or  doo  sell  aftyr     *  except  before  except. 

the  declaracion  of  this  my  last  will  *     *  to  dispose. 

for  the  helthe  of  my  soule,  *  [Dame     *  and  for  the  soulis  above  seyd. 

Milcent,  my  wif,  with  all  my  progeni- 

torys,  cosynes,  and  benefactorys,  and 

all  my  frendes.]  * 

*  [Item,  I  will,  ordeyne,  and  streightly  charge,  aftyr  be  the  grace  of  God 
I  be  diesesed  out  of  thys  world,  also  myn  executores  willynge  in  efFecte  to 
accepte  the  charge  upon  hem  of  execucion  of  my  testement  and  of  mynistra- 
cion  of  my  last  will,  all  the  articlis  there  in  conteynid  they  shall  ransakyn 
besyly  and  discussyn  soo  discretly  in   here   remembraunce,  that  both  in  will 

shal  not  omyttyn  for  to  complishe  the  seyd  articles  in 

Seynt  Poule  the  Appostyll  seithe  he  that  is  ignoraunt 

God  Almighty  shall  hym  not  knowyn  to  hise  savacion  ^ this  article 

to  otherys  that  ignoraunce  shuld  not  been  on  to  myn  execu[torys]  in  hurtynge 
of  my  soule,  occacion  of  trespacynge,  nor  God  ofFendyng.l  * 

*  [Item,  I  wyll,  I  ordeyne,  and  hertely  desyr,  that  if  it  soo  be  be  the  grace 
of  the  Holy  Gost,  or  of  my  good  Aungill,  or  ellys  be  the  verteuous  devocion 
of  ony  good  man,  or  be  lyberte  of  fredam  of  myn  owyn  will,  it  happe  ony  good 
wcrkes  and  profitable  to  the  helthe  of  my  soule  necessarye  or  avayleable  to  come 
be  favour  or  swetnesse  in  to  my  remembraunce,  as  oftyn  as  I  wryte  or  doo 
wryte  suche  thyngs  worthy  to  be  remembryd  in  ony  codicill  or  codicilles  for  to 


*  See  I  Cor.  xiv.  38.  The  translation  of  this  verse  in  the  Vulgate — *Si  quis 
autem  ignorat  ignorabitur' — conveys  a  materially  different  sense  from  that  of  our 
English  version. 

158 


HENRY  VI 


be  conyoinid  to  my  testament  or  to  my  last  will,  thanne  I  will  and  preye  with 
gret  instaunce  of  al  myn  executorys  that  alle  thoo  poyntes  or  articlys  be  me 
expressyd  and  conteynid  in  the  seyd  my  codicill  or  codicillys  that  they  may 
have  strengthe  and  vertwe  of  observaunce  in  efFecte,  as  if  the  hadde  be  wretyn 
in  the  code  of  my  testement  and  my  last  will.]  * 

*  [Item,  I  will,  I  ordeyne,  and  I  hertely  desyre,  sethe  that  every  mortall 
creature  is  soget  to  the  lymitez  or  merkys  of  mutabelyte  and  chaungeableness, 
and  mannys  levynge  in  frelte  and  condecion  is  caduke  and  casewell,  therfor  on 
the  behalve  of  Almyghty  God,  and  be  the  weye  of  entyer  charyte,  I  exhorte, 
beseche,  and  preye  all  myn  executorys,  in  the  vertwe  of  oure  Lord  Jesu  Cryst, 
and  in  the  vertwe  of  the  aspercion  of 


1459 

NOV.  3 


Hise  holy  blood,  shed  out  graciously 
for  the  savacion  of  all  man  kende,  that 
for  the  more  hasty  delyveraunce  of  my 
soule  from  the  peynefull  flawmes  of 
the  fyre  of  Purgatory,  on  suche  maner 
and  wise  they  dele  and  departe  my 
goodes  faithfully  be  here  discrecion 
and  prudence  and  polytik,]*  the  yeer 
of  my  buryeng,  in  exspence  of  myn 
entyrement  and  othyr  almesse,  the 
same  yeer,  and  dedys  of  pyete  (?)  for 
the  hoi  sum  estat  of  my  soule  amonges 
pore  peple  and  nedy  to  [be  pjartyd  and 
distributid  plenteuously  and  hastely,  the 

sum    of  m"   marke  *  [ 

the  space  of  v.  or  vij.  yeer  immediatly 
folwyng  by  yeer  Dxxxiij//.  vjj.  viijJ. 
in  almessefull  deds  and  charitable 
wirkys,  with  all  goodly  possibelyte  that 
they  shall  soo  dispose  my  goodes  in 
efFecte  feithefully  that  my  soule,  vexid  in 
peynefull  angwyshis,  with  holy  Job,  be 
not  compellyd  to  sey  with  gret  lemen- 
tacion  and  mornyng.  Have  mercy  on 
me,  have  mercy  on  me,  namely  yee  that 
my  frendes  shuld  bee,  for  the  hande  of 
Goddes  punysshynge  hathe  grevously 
touchyd  me.  These  be  the  articlys, 
xxxj.  be  noumbre,  concernith  the 
intent  and  purpose  of  my  last  will  be 
the  handes  of  myn  executores,  whiche 
I  charge  hem  streytly,  prey  hem,  and 
beseche  hem  enterly  feithefully  to 
execute,  as  they  will  have  helpe  of 
God  and  of  hise  holy  Gospell.  And 
soo  I  requyre  hem  as  wysdam,  justice, 


\Second  DraftJ] 
*  Item,  I  wyll  and  ordeyne  that 
John   Paston    and    Thomas   Howys, 
clerk,  geve  and  dispose. 


l^SeconJ  DraftJ] 


of  the  salis  of  my  londes  and  my  goodes 
be  my  will  .  .  sygnid  to  be  sold,  be 
fully  disposid  for  the  well  of  my  soule 
in  almessefull  dedes  [and]  charitable 
werkes  with  all  goodly  possibelite. 


\The  foUoiv'wg  new  clause  at  the  end.^ 

Item,  I  will  and  ordeyne  that  the 
seyd  John  Paston,  for  the  payment  of 
iiij.  m"-  marke  forseid,  shal  here  and 
paye  to  the  seyd  Thomas  Howys, 
clerk,  or  to  suche  as  shall  aftyr  them 
have  the  mynistracion  of  my  my  goodes, 
the  seid  sum  [of]  viij"^  marke  iche  othyr 
yeer  of  the  forseyd  yeerrys  in  whiche 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1 459     and  concience  to  doo  for  me  as  they     that  sum  is  ordeynid  to  be  distributid 

NOV.  3     wolde  I   shuld   doo   for   hem  in  cas     til   he be  tho   paymentes 

lyche.    In  tokene  and  witnesse  whereof,     born  and  payd  the  seyd  sum  of  iiij""* 
to  this  my  last  will  I,  Sir  John  Fastolf,     markes,  and  that  soo  paid  to  be  dis- 

above  ^ 3  *  posed  be  the  seyd  [John  Pajston  and 

Thomas  Howys,  or  be  hem  that  shal 

aftyr  them   have  the   mynistracion  of 

my  goods  in  executyng  [my]  will  in 

awmesse  full  dedes  in  fourme  afore  seyd  soo  that  my  mevable  goodes  be  mean  of 

that shall  the  lenger  indure  in  dedis  of  almesse. 


386 

WILL  OF  SIR  JOHN  FASTOLF = 

Anno  Domini  millesimo  quadringentesimo  quinquagesimo  nono,  mensis 
Novembris,  videlicet,  die  Sabbati  proximo  post  Festum  Omnium  Sanctorum, 
Johannes  FastolfF,  miles,  de  comitatu  Northfolch,  Norwicen  Dioc',  in  manerio 
suo  de  Castre,  dictje  Diocesis,  quoad  bona  sua  immobilia  suam  ultimam 
declaravit  voluntatem  prout  sequitur : 

John  FastolfF,  Knyght,  the  secunde  and  the  thirde  day  of  the  moneth 
of  Novembre,  the  yere  of  the  reigne  of  King  Henry  the  Sexte  after  the 
Conquest,  xxxviij.  yers,  being  of  longe  tyme,  as  he  said,  in  purpos  and  wille  to 
founde  and  stablissh  withynne  the  gret  mansion  at  Castre,  by  hym  late  edified,  a 
college  of  vij.  religious  men,  monkes  or  seculer  prestes,  and  vij.  pore  folke, 
to  pray  for  his  soule  and  the  soulys  of  his  wife,  his  fader  and  modir,  and  other 
that  he  was  beholde  to,  imperpetuite.  And  forasmuch  as  he  had,  as  he 
rehercid,  a  very  truste  and  love  to  his  cosyn,  John  Paston,  and  desired 
the  performyng  of  the  purpoos  and  wille  forsad  to  be  accomplisshed,  and  that 
the  said  Sir  John  shulde  not  be  mevid  ne  sterid  in  his  owne  persone  for 
the  said  accomplisshing  of  the  said  purpoos  and  wille,  ne  with  noon  other 
wordly  maters,  but  at  his  oune  request  and  plesire,  wolde,  graunted,  and 
ordeyned  that  the  said  John  Paston  shalle,  withynne  resonable  tyme  aftir  the 
dissese  of  the  said  Sir  John,  doo  founde  and  stablisshe  in  the  said  mansion  a 
college  of  vij.  monkes  or  prestes  and  vij.  pore  folke,  for  to  pray  for  the  soulys 
above  said  imperpetuite ;  so  that  one  of  the  said  monkes  or  prestes  be  maister, 
and  have  xJi,  yerely,  and  ich  othir  monke  or  preste  x.  marc  yerely,  and  ich  of 
the  pore  folke  xIj.  yerely ;  and  that  the  said  John  Paston  shalle  make  sure  to 
the  said  collegions  a  sufficient  roume  and  a  competent  and  an  esy  duelling  place 
in  the  said  mansion,  the  said  collegions  nor  her  successours  bering  no  charge  of 
reparacion  therof.     For  which,  and  for  othir  charges  and  labours  that  the  said 


1  The  original  draft  ends  with  this  word  at  the  bottom  of  the  page.     Apparently 
the  last  few  words  of  the  draft  were  written  on  a  flyleaf,  which  is  now  lost. 
*  [From  Add.  MS.  22,927,  B.M.] 

160 


HENRY  VI 

John  Paston  hath  doon  and  take  uppon  hym,  to  the  eas  and  profite  of  the  said      I4C9 

John   Fastolf,   and  for   othir  consideracions    by   hym   rehercid,   the  said   Sir     noy,  a 

John  Fastolff  wolde,  graunted,  and  ordeyned  that  the  said  John  Paston  shalle 

have  alie  the  maners,  landes,  and  teneraentes  in  North  [[folk] ,  Southfolk,  and 

Norwich,  in  which  the  said  John  Paston  or  any  other  are  or  were  enfefFed  or 

hare  title  to  the  use  of  the  said  Sir  John  Fastolf;  and  at  [^tiaQ  alle  the  fefFees 

infefFed  in  the  said  maners,  londes,  and  tenementes  shalle  make  and  deliver 

astate  of  the  said  maners,  landes,   and  tenementes  to  such  persones,  at  such 

tymes,  and  in  such  forme  as  the  said  John  Paston,  his  heirs,  and  his  assignes 

shalle  requere  thaym  or  any  of  thayme.     And  that  the  said  John  Paston  shall 

pay  to  othir  of  the  said  Sir  Johns  executours  iiij""'-   [^40003   marc  of  laufulle 

money  of  England  in  the  forme  that  folweth,  that  is  to  say :  Where  the  said 

Sir  John  hadde  apointed  and  assigned  that  his  executours  shalle,  the  first  yere 

aftir  his  disses,  dispoos  for  his  soule  and  performyng  his  wille  a  m'-  marks  or  a 

m'/f.  C;^iooo3  of  money,  and  yerely  aftir,  viij*"-  [800]]  marc,  tille  the  goodes  be 

disposed,  the  said  John  Paston  shalle  pay  iche  othir  yere  the  said  summe  of 

viij'^-  marc  till  the  summe  of  iiij""-  [[4000^  be  paid  ;  so  that  the  said  mevabill 

goodes  shall  the  lenger  endure  to  be  disposed,  by  th'avise  of  his  executours,  for 

the  said  soulys :  And  also  the  said  Sir  John  said,  forasmuch  as  it  was  the  very 

wille  and  entent  of  the  said  Sir  John  that  the  said  John  Paston  shulde  be  thus 

be  avauntaged  and  in  no  wise  hurte  of  his  propir  goodes,  therfore  the  said  Sir 

John  wolde  graunted  that  if  the  said  John  Paston,  aftir  the  dissese  of  the  said 

Sir  John,  by  occasion  and  unlaufulle  trouble  in  this  reame,  or  by  mayntenaunce 

or  myght  of  Lordes,  or  for  defaute  of  justice,  or  by  unresonable  exaccions  axid 

of  hym  for  the  licence  of  the  said  fundacion,  withoute  coveyne  or  fraude  of 

hym  selve,  be  lettid  or  taried  of  the  making  or  stablesshing  of  the  making 

of  the  said  fundacion,  that  thanne  he  fynde  or  doo  finde  yerely  aftir  the  first 

yere  of  thus  dissese  of  the  said  Sir  John,  vij.  prestes  to  pray  for  the  said  soulys 

in  the  said  mansion,  if  he  can  purvey  so  many,  or  els  for  as  many  prestes 

as  faile,  yeve  yerely  aftir  the  said  first  yere,  by  th'avise  of  his  executours,  to 

bedred  men  and  othir  nedy  true  pepille,  as  much  money  in  almose  for  the  said 

sowlys  as  the  salary  or  findyng  of  the  prestes  so  faillyng  is  worthe  or  amounteth 

to,  unto  the  tyme  he  may  laufully  and  peasably  founde  the  said  college  and  doo 

his  true  devir  for  the  said  fundacion  in  the  meane  tyme.     And  the  said  Sir 

John  Fastolf  wolde,  graunted,  and  desired  faithfully  alle  the  residewe  of  bis 

executours  and  fefFees  to  shewe  the  said  John  Paston  favore  in  the  said  pay- 

mentes  and  daies,  and  help  hym  for  the  Kinges  interesse  and  the  eschetours, 

and  furthir  hym  in  that  they  may  in  alle  othir  thinges  as  they  wolde  doo  to 

hym  selve,  and  not  vex  ne  inquiete  hym  for  the  said  fundacion  in  the  meane 

tyme.     Ande  where  the  said  Sir  John  Fastolf  made  his  wille  and  testament 

the  xiiij.  day  of  June  in  somer  last  passed,  he  wolde,  graunted,  and  ordeyned 

that  this  his  wille  touching  thes  premissez,  as  welle  as  the  said  wille  made  the 

said  xiiij.  day,  except  and  voided  out  of  his  said  wille,  made  the  said  xiiij.  day, 

alle  that   concerneth  or  perteyneth  to  the  fundacion  of  a  college,  priory,  or 

chauntery,  or  of  any  religious  persones,  and  all  that  concerneth  the  sale  or 

disposing  of  the  said  maners,  landes,  and  tenementes,  wherof  this  is  the  very 

declaracion  of  his  full  wille,  stand  and  be  joyntly  his  very  enteir  and  last  wille, 

VOL.  III. L  161 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

14 CO  and  annexed  and  proved  togedir.  Also  the  said  Sir  John  Faatolf,  Knyght,  the 
NOV.  'i  Tuysday  next  before  the  fest  of  Alle  Saintes,  and  in  the  moneth  of  Septembre 
the  said  yere,  and  the  iij.  day  of  Novembre,  and  diverse  other  tymes,  at  Castre 
aforesaid,  wolde,  ordeynyd,  and  declared  his  wille  touching  the  making  of  the 
said  college,  as  welle  as  the  graunte  of  the  said  maners,  landes,  and  tenementes 
in  NorfFolk,  Suffolk,  and  Norwich,  in  fourme,  manere,  and  substance  aforeseid. 
Also  the  said  Sir  John  wolde  and  ordeyned  that  if  the  said  John  Paston,  by 
force  or  myght  of  any  othir  desiring  to  have  the  said  mansion,  were  letted 
to  founde  the  seid  college  in  the  said  mansion,  that  thanne  the  said  John  Paston 
shulde  doo  poule  down  the  said  mansion  and  every  stone  and  stikke  therof,  and 
do  founde  iij.  of  the  said  vij.  prestes  or  monkes  at  Saincte  Benettes,  and  one  at 
Yermuth,  one  at  Attilbrugh,  and  one  at  Sainte  Oloves  Church  in  Southwerke. 
Also  the  said  Sir  John  Fastolf,  the  iij.  and  iiij.  daies  of  the  moneth  of 
Novembir  abovesaid,  desired  his  said  wille  or  writyng,  touching  the  fundacion 
of  the  said  college  and  the  graunte  of  the  said  maners,  landes,  and  tenementes 
to  the  said  John  Paston,  to  be  redde  unto  the  said  Sir  John  ;  and  that  same 
wille  redde  and  declared  unto  hym  articulerly,  the  said  Sir  John  Fastolffe 
wolde,  ordeyned,  and  graunted  that  the  said  John  Paston  shulde  be  discharged 
of  the  payment  of  the  said  iiij™'-  markes,  and  noght  pay  therof  in  case  he  did 
execute  the  remenaunte  of  the  said  wille. 

Also  the  said  Sir  John  Fastolf,  Knyght,  aboute  the  tyme  of  hervest  the 
yere  of  the  reigne  of  King  Henry  the  Sexte,  xxxv"*  yere  at  Castre  faste  by 
Mikel  Yermuth,  in  the  shire  of  NorfFolk,  in  presence  of  divers  persones  that 
tyme  called  to  by  the  said  Sir  John,  did  make  astate  and  feffement  and  liverey 
of  the  seasin  of  the  maner  of  Castre  aforesaid,  and  othir  maners,  landes,  and 
tenementes  in  NorfFolk,  to  John  Paston,  Squier,  and  othir ;  and  at  that  lyverey 
of  season  therof  delivered,  as  welle  by  the  handes  of  the  said  Sir  John  as 
by  other,  the  said  Sir  John  Fastolfe  by  his  owne  mouth  declared  his  wille  and 
entente  of  that  feffement  and  liverey  of  season  made  to  the  use  of  the  said  Sir 
John  asfor  during  his  live  onely,  and  aftir  his  decese,  to  the  use  of  the  said  John 
Paston  and  his  heirs.  And  also  the  said  Sir  John  said  and  declared  that  the 
said  John  Paston  was  the  best  frende  and  helper  and  supporter  to  the  said  Sir 
John,  and  that  was  his  wille  that  the  said  John  Paston  shulde  have  and  enherite 
the  same  maners,  landes,  and  tenementes  and  othir  aftir  his  decese,  and  there  to 
duelle  and  abide  and  kepe  householde  ;  and  desired  Daun  William  Bokenham, 
Priour  of  Yermouth,  and  Raufe  Lampet,  Squier,  Bailly  of  Yermuth,  that  tyme 
present,  to  recorde  the  same.  Also  the  said  Sir  John  Fastolf,  the  vj.  day  of 
July  next  aftir  the  tyme  of  the  sealing  of  his  wille  made  the  xiiij.  day  of  June, 
the  XXXV.  of  King  Henry  the  Sexte,  and  aftir  in  the  presence  of  Daun 
William  Bokenham,  that  tyme  Prioure  of  Yermouth,  and  other,  wolde, 
ordeyned,  and  declared  by  wille  that  the  said  John  Paston  shulde  have  alle 
thynges  as  the  said  Sir  John  had  graunted  and  declared  to  the  said  prioure  and 
othir  at  the  tyme  of  the  said  [asta]te  and  feffement  made  to  the  [said]  John 
Paston,  the  said  xxxv.  yere  of  King  Henry  the  vj""-  the  said  John  seyng 
[^j/7y/«f  ]  that  he  was  of  the  same  wille  and  purpoos  as  he  was  and  declared  at 
the  tyme  [of  the]  said  astate  takyng.  Also  the  said  Sir  John  wolde  that  John 
Paston  and  Thomas  Howes,  and  noon  othir  of  his  executours,  shulde  selle 

162 


HENRY  VI 

alle  maners,  landes,  and  tenementes  in  whiche  any  persones  were  enfefFed  1459 
to  the  use  of  the  said  Sir  John,  excepte  the  said  maners,  landes,  and  tene-  nov.  3 
mentes  in  NorfFolk,  Suffolk,  and  Norwich ;  and  the  same  John  Paston  and 
Thomas  Howes  shalle  take  and  receyve  the  profiles,  ysshueys,  and  emolumentes 
commyng  of  the  said  maners,  landes,  and  tenementes,  excepte  before  except, 
tille  they  may  resonably  be  solde ;  and  that  the  said  John  Paston  and  Thomas, 
the  money  comyng  of  the  same  sale,  as  welle  of  the  said  proufites,  ysshuys,  and 
emolumentes,  shulde  dispoos  in  dedys  of  almose  for  the  soule  of  the  said  Sir 
John  and  the  soulys  aforesaid,  and  in  executyng  of  his  wille  and  testament : 
And  also  the  said  Sir  John  wolde  that  alle  the  fefFees  enfefFed  in  the  said 
maners,  landes,  and  tenementes  assigned  to  be  sold,  whanne  thay  be  required  by 
the  said  John  Paston  and  Thomas  Howes,  shall  make  astate  to  persone  or 
persons  as  the  said  John  Paston  and  Thomas  shalle  selle  to,  the  said  maners, 
landes,  and  tenementes,  or  any  parte  therof,  and  that  noon  othir  fefFe  \_feoffee~\ 
nor  the  executours  of  the  said  Sir  John  shall  make  any  fefFement,  relece,  ne 
quitance  of  any  londes  befor  assigned  to  be  solde  that  wer  at  any  tyme  longing 
to  the  said  Sir  John,  withoute  the  assente  of  the  said  John  Paston  and  Thomas 
Howes.     Datum  anno  Domini,  mense,  die  et  loco  supradictis. 


387 

SIR  JOHN  FASTOLFS  WILL^ 

Anno  Domini  Qmillesimo]  ^  quadringentesimo  quinquagesimo  nono,  mensis 
Novembris,  videlicet,  die  Sabbati  proximo  post  Festura  Omnium  Sanctorum, 
Johannes  FastolfFe,  miles,  de  com'  Norfolk,  Norvicen'  dioc',  in  manerio  suo  de 
Castre,  diet'  dioc',  suum  condidit  testamentum,  et  ipsius  ultimam  declaravit 
voluntatem,  prout  sequitur : — In  primis,  commendavit  et  commisit  animam  suam 
Deo  Omnipotenti,  Creatori  suo,  ac  gloriosas  Virgini  Marise,  matri  Domini 
nostri  Jesu  Christi,  et  omnibus  Sanctis.  Item,  legavit  corpus  suum,  postquam 
ab  hac  luce  migraverit,  sepeliendum  in  ecclesia  conventuali  monasterii  Sancti 
Benedicti  in  Hulmo,  Norvicen'  dioc',  sub  arcu  novae  capellse  per  ipsum  ibidem 
de  novo  constructae,  ex  parte  australi  chori  sive  cancelli,  sub  tumba  marmorea, 
juxta  corpus  Milicenciae  olim  consortis  suae  ibidem  sepultae ;  ac  voluit  quod 
abbas  et  conventus  monasterii  prsedicti,  antequam  corpus  suum  ibidem  sepeliretur, 
securitatem  facerent  quod  dabunt  et  concedent  Johanni  Paston  et  aliis  per  ipsum 
nominandis,  licentiam  dandi  et  concedendi  septem  monachis  vel  presbyteris  et 


*  From  a  modem  copy  among  the  Mss.  at  Narford,  in  the  possession  of  Andrew 
Fountaine,  Esq.  The  original  of  this  document  has  not  been  met  with,  and  the 
copy  from  which  it  is  printed  is  unfortunately  very  corrupt  j  but  no  other  text  is 
obtainable.  The  more  obvious  inaccuracies  have  been  corrected,  but  some  obscurities 
remain,  on  which  the  reader  may  exercise  his  own  judgment.  For  a  knowledge  of 
this  document  I  am  indebted  to  Mr.  Tysscn  Amhurst,  of  Didlington  Hall,  Brandon, 
to  whom  it  was  lent  by  the  owner.  '  Omitted  in  MS. 

163 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

14  CQ  eorum  successoribus  in  quodam  collegio  apud  Castre  praedict*  per  praedictum 
NOV.  t  Johannem  Paston  stabiliendo  et  dotando,  terras  et  tenementa  quae  idem  Johannes 
Paston  et  alii  feoffati  per  ipsum  Johannem  Fastolf  seu  suos  feofFatos  de  dictis 
abbate  et  conventu  tenent,  vel  tantum  inde  quantum  idem  Johannes  dictis 
monachis  vel  presbyteris  dare  voluerit.  Item  legavit,  ordinavit,  et  prascepit 
omnia  debita  sua  fideliter  persolvi  et  quaecumque  per  ipsum  forisfacta  de  quibus 
constare  poterit,  emendari,  restitui,^  et  satisfieri  cum  efFectu.  Item  legavit  ad 
reparationem  et  sustentationem  portus  villae  Magnas  Jernemuth',  ac  ad  renova- 
tionem  et  sustentationem  murorum  dictas  villae  pro  bono  commodo  reipublicas, 
salva  tuitione  villaj  praedictae  et  patriae  adjacentis,  centum  marcas  sterlingorum, 
sub  conditione  quod  burgenses  seu  gubernatores  dictae  villae  sine  mora  seu 
dilatione  perficiant  2  reparationem  portus  et  murorum  praedictorum  quamdiu 
dicta  summa  a  se  extendet,  ut  gentes  ibidem  commorantes  habeant  animam 
8uam  in  suis  orationibus  specialiter  recommendatam.  Item,  cuilibet  ecclesiae 
parochiali  singularum  villarum  in  quibus  habuit,  aut  aliquis  ad  suum  usum 
habet,  domum  seu  manerium,  terras,  et  tenementa  pro  speciali  recommendationc 
animae  suae,  unum  vestimentum  de  serico  panno  pro  missis  ibidem  celebrandis,  et 
quod  fiat  in  eodem  scutum  armorum  suorum  brodinatum  secundum  discretionem 
executorum  suorum  et  indigentiam  dictarum  ecclesiarum.  Item,  legavit  et 
ordinavit  servientibus  ^  suis  et  familiaribus  domesticis  remunerationem  condignam 
seu  competentem  de  bonis  suis  mobilibus  juxta  statum  suorum  [w]  ad  summam 
tres  centum  marcarum,  ita  quod  quilibet  generosus  habeat  duplicem  ad  valentiam, 
et  sic  descendendo  successive  juxta  statum  eorum  seu  exigentiam  meritorum 
ministrorum  suorum  ac  fidelium  laborum,  habita  tamen  consideratione  ad  certos 
servientes^  circa  personam  suam  attendentes  diebus  et  noctibus  in  laboribus, 
angustiis  et  vigiliis,  tarn  in  sanitate  quam  in  infirmitate,  circa  praeservationem 
corporis  sui  ac  sanitatem  celerius  obtinendum.  Item,  legavit  cuilibet  ordini 
Fratrum  religiosorum  et  domorum  Mendicantium,  tam  in  villa  Magnae  Jerne- 
mouth  quam  in  civitate  Norwici,  pro  recommendatione  animae  suae,  summam 
competentem  secundum  discretionem  executorum  suorum  limitandum,  cum  nihil 
in  proprio  habeant  unde  sustentari  valeant  nisi  de  caritate  et  elemosina  devotorum 
Christianorum.  Residuum  vero  omnium  bonorum  suorum  mobilium  legata  sua 
excedentium,  ac  catallorum  suorum  vivorum  et  mortuorum,  ac  debita  singula 
quse  sibi  debeantur,  dedit  et  legavit  executoribus  suis  infrascriptis  juxta  modum, 
formam  et  potestatem  eisdem  per  eum  superius  limitatam,  specificatam  et  ascriptam, 
ut  ipsi  eisdem  modo  et  forma,  per  inde  omni  pondere  discretionis  et  sani  consilii, 
ea  distribuant  pro  salute  animae  suae  inter  maxime  debiles  et  pauperes,  claudos  et 
caecos,  ac  alios  impotentes  in  eorum  lectis  decumbentes,  se  et  suos  sustentare 
commode  non  valentes ;  habita  consideratione  speciali  ad  pauperes  de  consan- 
guinitate  et  affinitate  sua  intimos  et  propinquos,  et  praesertim  in  locis  ubi  quondam 
possessiones,  praedia,  redditus  et  sua  dominia  fuerunt  situata,  et  praesertim  in  villis 
et  locis  ubi  habent,  seu  aliquis  ad  usum  suum  habet,  dominia,  maneria,  terras, 
tenementa,  et  etiam  ad  emendationcm  pauperum  ecclesiarum  villarum  praedictarum, 
viarum  turpium  et  pontium  communium  reparationem,  et  in  aliis  piis  elemosinariis 
usibus  et  caritatis  operibus,  specialiter  in  comitatibus  Norfolk'  et  Suffolk' ;  et 

*  rcstum,  MS.  '  proficiant,  MS. 

'  finentibus,  MS.  *  finentes,  MS. 

164 


HENRY  VI 

quod  circa  funeralia  et  legata  sua  ac  elemosinas  supradictas  primo  anno  post  1 4  CO 
decessum  suum  mille  marcae  seu  mille  librae  disponantur,  et  annuatim  postea  ^jov.  3 
quingentae  librae,  triginta  tres  librae,  sex  solidi  et  octo  denarii,  quousque  bona  sua 
mobilia  et  pecuniae  de  venditione  terrarum  ac  bonorum  suorum  vendendorum 
provenientia  modo  et  forma  praedictis  plenarie  disponantur,  sicut  coram  Deo  in 
die  extreme  Examinis  voluerint  respondere ;  et  ad  hoc  eos  exhortabatur  in 
Domino  Jesu  Christo  taliter  pro  ^  ipso  singula  fideliter  peragere  vellent  cum  pro 
eis  in  casu  consimili  faceret  juxta  conscientiam,  rationem,  et  justitiam.  Et 
praedicti  testamenti  ac  ultimas  voluntatis  suae  suos  executores  ad  exequendum, 
disponendum  et  ministrandum  modo  et  forma  per  eum  inferius  limitatis  et  sub- 
scriptis,  constituit,  ordinavit,  fecit  et  elegit  Willelmum  Wintoniensem  episcopum  ; 
Johannem,  Dominum  de  Beauchamp ;  Nicholaum,  abbatem  de  L  angle  ;  Johan- 
nem  Stokes,  legum  doctorem  ;  Fratrem  Johannem  Brakley,  doctorem  theologiae  ; 
Willelmum  Yelverton,  unum  justiciariorum  Domini  Regis ;  Johannem  Paston, 
armigerum ;  Henricum  Filongley,  armigerum ;  Dominum  Thomam  Howes, 
presbyterum  ;  et  Willelmum  Worcester  ;  quos  modum  et  formam  executionis  et 
administrationis  bonorum  suorum  per  executores  suos  fiend'  sic  limitavit,  voluit, 
disposuit,  et  modificavit ;  videlicet,  quod  praedicti  Johannes  Paston  et  Thomas 
Howes  solum  et  ante  alios  executores  praedictos  subeant  et  habeant  administra- 
tionem  et  dispositionem  omnium  bonorum  mobilium,  catallorum  ac  denariorura 
ex  venditione  omnium  terrarum  et  tenementorum  suorum  vendendorum  et  pro- 
ficuorum  eorundem  terrarum  et  tenementorum  provenientum,  ut  ipsi  duo  soli  ea 
disponant  pro  salute  animae  suae,  et  quod  alii  executores  supradicti  abstineant  se 
ab  omni  administratione  dictorum  bonorum  suorum,  nisi  pro  modo,  forma,  causa, 
loco,  et  tempore  quibus  per  ipsos  Johannem  Paston  et  Thomam  Howes  ad 
eorem  juramenta  pro  dicta  administratione  fuerint  evocati  pariter  et  rogati ;  et 
quod  nullus  dictorum  aliorum  executorum  suorum  sine  consensu  et  voluntate  ac 
advisamento  dictorum  Johannes  Paston  et  Thomae  Howes  capiat  aliquid  seu 
distribuat  de  bonis  suis  mobilibus  et  catallis  praedictis,  nee  venditionem  eorundem 
neque  terrarum  nee  tenementorum  prxdictorum  faciat,  nee  aliqua  sibi  debita 
recipiat,  neque  aliquos  creditores  suos  quovis  modo  acquiet  et,  neque,  praedictis 
Johanne  Paston  et  Thoma  Howes  viventibus  et  administrare  bona  sua  volentibus, 
aliquis  alius  executorum  praedictorum  administrationem  bonorum  suscipiat  suorum, 
sed  quod  quantum  dicti  alii  sui  executores  ad  [jtc]  eorem  singuli  praedict'  Johanni 
Paston  et  Thomx  Howes  in  quibuscunque  egibilibus  [w]  quae  hujusmodi  testa- 
mentum  et  ultimam  voluntatem  concernentibus,  favorabiliter  assistant  et  succurrant 
cum  per  eosdem  fuerint  ad  hoc  requisiti.  Voluit  tamen  quod  si  alter  praedictorum 
Johannis  et  Thomae  recusaverit  onus  administrationis  bonorum  hujusmodi  subire, 
vel  ante  administrationem  functam  obierit,  quod  tunc  ille  dictorum  duorum 
executorum  suorum  administrare  volens  eligat  unum  de  executoribus  praedictis 
sibi  associandis  quem  putaverit  in  hiis  sibi  magis  idoneum,  et  ita  voluit  fieri  de 
omnibus  aliis  executoribus  praescriptis  ;  videlicet,  quod  uno  moriente  vel  deficiente 
de  duobus,  alter  loco  ipsius  ad  electionem  administrationem  incumbent*  sub- 
stituatur  et  assumatur.  Si  autem  ambo  executores  praedicti  onus  recusaverint 
subire  administrationis  praedictae,  vel  ambo  executores  administrationem  incum- 
bentes  moriantur  antequam  substituantur  executores  alii,  voluit  quod  tunc  illi  dao 


per,  MS. 


165 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

14  fO  executores  viventes  praedictam  administrationem  subeant  et  habeant  quos  major 
NOV.  3  P^J's  executorum  viventium  sui  testamenti  duxerit  eligendos,  et  quod  illi  duo 
administrationem  subeuntes  ad  dictos  Dominum  Episcopum  et  Dominum  de 
Beauchamp,  Nicolaum  Abbatem  de  Langley,  Johannem  Stokes,  Fratrem 
Johannem  Bracley,  Willelmum  Yelverton,  Henricum  Filongley,  et  Willelmum 
Worcester  recursum  habeant  pro  eorum  consilio  et  advisamento  obtinendo  in 
causis  arduis  et  materiis  requisitis.  Supervisores  vero  dicti  testamenti  reveren- 
dissimum  in  Christo  patrem  et  dominum,  Dominum  Thomam  Dei  gratia 
Cantuariensem  Archiepiscopum,  Walterum  Episcopum  Norwicensem,  Magistrum 
Robertum  Popy  clericum,  et  Hugonem  Fenn,  Domini  Regis  auditorem,  ordinavit 
et  constituit,  et  voluit  quod  dicti  duo  executores  onus  administrationis  subeuntes 
remunerarentur  secundum  merita  laborum  suorum  et  diligentiam  in  prsemissis 
expediendis  juxta  discretionem  dicti  Domini  Episcopi  Wintoniensis  et  Magistri 
Johannis  Stokes,  seu  majoris  partis  aliorum  executorum  viventium.  Sujjervisores 
vero  prsedicti  et  caeteri  executores  remunerarentur  secundum  merita  laborum 
suorum  per  discretionem  duorum  executorum  dictx  administrationi  incumbentium. 
Et  voluit  quod  si  quis  prasdictorum  per  eum  superius  nominatorum  dictos 
Johannem  Paston  et  Thomam  Howes  in  officio  suo  hujusmodi  seu  circa 
administrationem  bonorum  ejusdem  defuncti  quoquomodo  impediverit,  turba- 
verit,  vexaverit,  molestaverit,  vel  inquietaverit,  aut  aliquid  praedictorum  facere 
praesumpserit  vel  conatus  fuerit,  ab  administratione  bonorum  suorum  omnino 
removeatur,  et  si  quid  prasmissorum  ante  susceptionem  administrationis  hujusmodi 
attemptaverit,  ipsum  ad  administrationem  hujusmodi  nullatenus  admitti  voluit  et 
dcclaravit.     Datum  anno  Domini,  mense,  die,  loco  supradictis. 


388 

INVENTORY  OF  SIR  JOHN  FASTOLF'S  GOODS  1 

14^0  Memorandum  that  here  aftir  foloweth  an  inventarye  of  the  gold  and  silver  in 
coyne  and  plate,  and  othir  godes  and  catelles  that  sumtyme  were  Sir  John 
Fastolf,  Knyght,  whiche  the  said  Sir  John  Fastolf  gaf  to  .John  Paston,  Squier, 
and  Thomas  Howys,  clerk,  of  trust  and  confidence,  that  the  same  godes  shuld 
the  more  saufly  be  kept  to  the  use  of  the  said  Sir  John  duryng  his  lif,  and  aftir 
his  decesse  to  be  disposed  in  satisfiyng  of  the  duetees  and  dettes  to  God  and 
Holy  Chirche,  and  to  alle  othir,  and  in  fulfillyng  and  execucion  of  his  legate 
last  wille  and  testament  without  eny  defraudyng  of  the  said  Holy  Chirche  or  of 
eny  creditours  or  persones. 


*  [From  Add.  Charter  17,247,  B.M.]  The  MS.  fix)m  which  this  document  is 
printed  is  a  roll  which  appears  to  have  been  at  one  time  in  the  possession  ot  Blomefield, 
the  historian  of  Norfolk.  At  the  end  is  the  following  note  in  his  handwriting  : — '  March 
7,  174.3.— A  true  coppy  of  this  roll  given  to  Sr.  Andr.  Fountain,  Kt.,  by  mc,  Fra, 
Blomefield.' 

166 


HENRY  VI 

First,  in   goold  and   silver,  founden   in   th'abbey   of  Seynt   Benet   aftir     1 459 
the   decesse   of  the   said    Sir    John    Fastolf,   m'm'   iiij'"'   xiij/i.    iijj. 

Item,  founden  atte  Castre,  Ixj//.  vjj.  viij^. 

Item,  receyved  atte  Bentlee  by  the  handes  of  William  Barker  in  money  by 

hym  receyved  of  John  Heryngton,  xx/f. 
Item,  receyved  atte  London,  CCCClxix/t. 

Summa  M'M'DCxliij/f.  xj.  in  coyne. 

First,  two  peces  of  golde,  weiyng  xlviij.  unces. 
Item,  two  ewers  of  golde,  weiyng  xxvij.  unces. 
Item,  j.  flaget  of  silver,  weiyng  xxxviij.  unces. 
Item,  ij.  prikettys  of  silver,  weiyng  xxvij.  unces  et  di. 

Summa  of  golde,  Ixxv.  unces,  and  of  silver,  Iv.  unces. 

Item,  iij.  chargeours  of  silver,  weiyng  vij"  iij.  unces. 
Item,  xij.  platers  of  silver,  weiyng  ix**  ix.  unces. 
Item,  xij.  disshes  of  silver,  weiyng  vij"  viij.  unces. 
Item,  xij.  sausers  of  silver,  weiyng  iiij"*  xv.  unces. 

Summa  v*^  Ixxv.  unces. 

Item,  xij.  flat  peces  bolyond  in  the  bothom,  weiyng  viij""  ix.  unces. 

Item,    vj.    bolles  with   oon  coverecle   [//V]    of   silver,  the  egges  gilt,  my 

maister  helmet  enameled  in  the  myddes,  weiyng  viij"  iiij.  unces. 
Item,  a  candilstik,  a  priket  and  ij.  sokettys  of  silver,  weiyng  xvij.  unces. 
Item,  ij.  potell  pottes  of  silver  wrethyn,  the  verges  gilt  with   braunches 

enameled,  with  j.  tree  in  the  lyddys,  weiyng  vj"  xij.  unces. 
Item,  ij.  galon  pottes  of  silver  wrethyn,  the  verges  gilt,  enameled  in  the 

lyddes  with  iij.  floures,  weiyng  xj"  ix.  unces. 
Item,  j.  roste  iron  with  vij.  staves  and  j.  foldyng  stele  of  silver,  weiyng 

Ixxiij.  unces. 
Item,  ij.  flagons  of  silver,  with  gilt  verges,  and  the  cheynes  enameled  in  the 

myddes,  with  j.  hoke,  weiyng  ix'"'  unces. 

Summa,  ix*^  Ixiiij.  unces. 

Item,  a  saltsaler  like  a  bastell  [a  bastille  or  small  tower],  alle  gilt  with  roses, 

weiyng  Ixxvij.  unces. 
Item,  a  paire  of  basyns,  alle  gylt,  with  an  antelope  in  the  myddes,  weiyng 

xj*"  unces. 
Item,  ij.  ewers,  gilt,  pounsed  with  floures  and  braunches,  weiyng  xxxix. 

unces. 
Item,  j.  spice  plate,  well  gilt  like  a  double  rose,  my  maister  helmet  in 

the  myddes,   with  rede   roses  of  my   maisters  armes,   weiyng   v"  x. 

unces. 

167 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1 4  Co  Item,  ij.  galon  pottes,  all  gilt,  enameled  in  the  crownes  with  violet  floures, 

weiyng  x""  xiij.  unces. 
Item,  vj.  holies,  with  oon  coveracle  gilt,  with  my  maisters  helmet  enamelled 

in  the  myddes,  weiyng  viij"  vj.  unces. 
Item,  j.  stondyng  cuppe,  all  gilt,  with  a  coveracle,  with  ray  maisters  helmet 

enamyled  in  the  myddes,  weiyng  xlj.  unces. 
Item,  another  cuppe  of  the  same  facione,  all  gilt,  weiyng  xlij.  unces. 
Item,  iiij.  cuppes,  gilt  like  founteyns,  with  j.  columbyne  floure  enameled  in 

the  myddes,  weiyng  iiij*''  xvj.  unces. 

Summa,  DCCCClxv.  unces. 

Item,  j.  grete  flagon,  with  stuf  theryn,  weiyng  xvij"  xj.  unces. 
Summa,  CCClj.  unces. 

Item,  vj.  platers,  weiyng  vij""  unces. 

Item,  xiiij.  disshes,  weiyng  ix"  unces. 

Item,  xij.  peces  of  dyvers  sortes,  weiyng  vij"  xiij.  unces. 

Item,  ij.  grete  galon  pottes,  playn,  with  gilt  verges,  my  maisters  helmet  in 

the  kever,  weiyng  xij"  xij.  unces. 
Item,  j.  paire  basyns,  the  verges  gilt,  Harlyngs  ^  armes  in  the  bottom,  weiyng 

v"  XV.  unces. 
Item,  ij.  quart  potts,  with  gilt  verges,  with  the  same  armes  in  the  lydde, 

weiyng  Ixx.  unces. 
Item,  ij.  ewers,  the  oon  demi  gilt,  and  the  otliir  the  bordures  gilt,  weiyng 

Ij.  unces. 
Item,  j.  spice  plate  demi  gilt,  my  maisters  terget  enamyled  in  the  myddes, 

weiyng  Ixxj.  unces. 

Summa,  DCCCCCxxxij.  unces. 

Item,  j.  stondyng  cuppe  gilt,  with  j.  kever,  with  j.  rose  in  the  toppe,  weiyng 

xl.  unces. 
Item,  anothir  cuppe  of  the  same  facion,  gilt,  weiyng  xij.  unces. 

Summa,  iiij"  j.  unces. 

Item,  iij.  grete  chargeours,  weiyng  vij"  ij.  unces. 
Item,  xij.  platers,  weiyng  xj"""  xij.  unces. 
Item,  xij.  disshes,  weiyng  ix**  viij.  unces. 
Item,  xj.  sausers,  weiyng  Ixxvj.  unces. 

Summa,  DCxxxviij.  unces. 

Item,  j.  paire  basyns,  with  gilt  verges  and  j.  rose,  with  my  maisters  helmet 
enameled  and  gilt  in  the  myddes,  weiyng  viij"  vj.  unces. 


1  Sir  Robert  Harling  of  East  Harling,  in  Norfolk,  was  a  companion  in  arms  of 
Fastolf,  and  was  killed  at  Paris  in  1435. 

x68 


HENRY  VI 

Item,  ij.  ewers,  gilt  and  enameled  in  like  wise,  weiyng  Ixxv.  unces.  14  CQ 

Item,  xij.  flatte  peces,  pounsed  in  the  bottom,  the  verges  gilt  sortely,  weiyng 

vij"''  xvj.  unces. 
Item,  j.  spiceplate  demi  gilt,  wrethyn,  weiyng  Ixxij.  unces. 
Item,  vj.  bolles,  with  oon  kever,  the  verges  gilt,  my  maisters  helmet  in  the 

myddes,  weiyng  viij""  iiij.  unces. 
Item,  ij.  grete  pottes,  eche  of  a  galon,  wrethyn  the  verges  of  bothe  gilt  with 

popy  leves,  with  j.  tre  levedroses  in  the  lidde,  enameled,  weiyng  xj**  xvj. 

unces. 
Item,  ij.  potelers,  with  gilt  verges,  enameled  in  the  liddes,  weiyng  iiij"  ix. 

•    unces. 
Item,  ij.  flagons,  with  gilt  verges,  and  the  cheyne  enameled  in  the  myddes, 

weiyng  viij"  j.  unces. 
Item,  j.  candelstik,  with  j.  priket  and  ij.  soketts,  weiyng  xvij.  unces. 
Summa,  xj*^  xxxvj.  unces. 

Item,  j.  saltsaler,  with  j.  kever,  well  gilt,  with  many  wyndowes,  weiyng 

iiij"*  vj.  unces. 
Item,  vj.  bolles,  all  gilt,  with   j.   kever   and   j.  rose   in    the   toppe,   eche 

enameled   in  the  bottom   with   my   maisters   helmet,  weiyng  viij"  vj. 

unces. 
Item,  ij.  galon  pottes,  gilt  playn,  anameled  in  the  lyddes  with  my  maisters 

target,  weiyng  vij"  xiiij.  unces. 
Item,  j.   stondyng   cuppe,   pounsed   with   floures,   well   gilt,   weiyng   xlij. 

unces. 
Item,  j.  gilt  cuppe,  stondyng  covered,  pounsed  with  j.  rose  in  the  toppe, 

weiyng  xlvij.  unces. 
Item,  vj.  gobelettes,  wele  gilt,  with  j.  columbyne  floure,  weiyng  vij"  vj. 

unces. 

Summa,  DCxlj.  unces. 

Chapell 

Item,  vij.  prikettes,  with  gilt  verges,  weiyng  iiij"  vj.  unces. 
Item,  ij.  stondyng  candilstikkes,  with  gilt  verges,  weiyng  iiij""  j.  unces. 
Item,  j.  ship,  with  gilt  verges,  weiyng  ix.  unces. 
Item,  j.  box  for  syngyng  brede,^  weiyng  iiij.  unces. 

Item,  j.  haly  water  stop,  with  j.  sprenkill  and   ij.    cruettes,   weiyng   xij. 
unces. 

Summa,  C  iiij"  xij.  unces. 

Item,  j.  brode  pryket,  all  gilt,  weiyng  xlv.  unces 

Item,  j.  paire  basyns,  all  gilt,  enameled  in  the  bottom  with  roses,  weiyng 
xl.  unces. 


1  The  round  cakes  or  wafers  intended  for  consecration  in  the  Eucharist. 

169 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

I A  CO  Item,  j.  pyx,  demi  gilt,  weiyng  xxx.  unces. 

Item,  j.  crosse,  all  gilt,  weiyng  xlj.  unces. 
Item,  j.  ewer,  all  gilt,  weiyng  xvij.  unces. 
Item,  j.  chalice,  alle  gilt,  weiyng  xxvij.  unces. 
Item,  j.  lesser  chalice,  all  gilt,  weiyng  xiiij.  unces. 
Item,  ij.  roses  over  gilt,  weiyng  xv.  unces  et  di. 
Item,  j.  ymage  of  Seynt  Michell,  weiyng  viij"  x.  unces. 
Item,  j.  ymage  of  oure  Lady  and  hir  Childe  in  hir  armes,  weiyng  v"  x. 
unces. 

Summa,  D'^xxix  et  di  unces. 

• 

Item,  j.  grete  flagon,  weiyng  xviij"  viij.  unces. 

Item,  j.  almesse  disshe,  weiyng  vj"  xij.  unces.  \ 

Summa,  D"^  unces. 

Item,  j.  sensour  of  silver,  and  gilt,  weiyng  xl.  unces. 

Item,  j.  ship,  weiyng  xviij.  unces. 

Item,  j.  pece  with  j.  kever,  weiyng  xx.  unces. 

Item,  j.  gobelet,  gilt,  weiyng  xj.  unces. 

Item,  j.  stondyug  cup,  with  j.  kever,  weiyng  xij.  unces. 

Summa,  Cj.  unces. 

Item,  iij.  grete  chargeours,  of  oon  sorte,  weiyng  xj"  xviij.  unces. 

Item,  j.  chaufer,  to  sette  upon  a  table  for  bote  water,  weiyng  iiij"  xiij. 

unces. 
Item,   iiij.  holowe  basyns,  wherof  oon  is  bolyons,  weiyng  all  x"  xiij. 

unces. 
Item,  iij.  botelles,  of  oon  sorte,  weiyng  vij"  xiiij.  unces. 
Item,  vj.  grete  peces,  of  oon  sorte,  weiyng  v^"  xvij.  unces. 
Item,  xij.  peces,  all  of  oon  sorte,  weiyng  xj'"'  xiiij.  unces. 
Item,  iij.  smale  peces,  weiyng  xxv-  unces. 
Item,  j.  grete  bolle,  with  j.  kever,  weiyng  Ixij.  unces. 
Item,  iij.  gobelettes,  pounsed,  weiyng  xiiij.  unces  et  di. 
Item,  j.  powder  box,  and  j.  kever  to  j.  cup,  weiyng  xxij.  unces. 
Item,    ij.   basyns,   the   verges   gilt   with    popy   leves,   enameled   with    my 

maisters  helmet  in  the  bottom,  weiyng  viij'"'  ix.  unces. 
Item,  ij.  ewers,  gilt,  enameled  in  the  same  wise,  weiyng  iiij"*  unces. 
Item,  iiij.  ewers,  of  the  olde  facion,  weiyng  Ixxvij.  unces. 

Summa,  xv*^  xxij.  unc'  et  di. 

Item,  j.  litill  flat  pece,  gilt,  with  j.  kever,  weiyng  xxvij.  unces. 
Item,  j.  stondyng  pece,  all  gilte,  with  j.  kever,  weiyng  xxxviij.  unces. 
Item,  j.  litill  stondyng  pece,  gilt,  with  j.  kever,  weiyng  xxj.  unces  et  di. 

Summa,  iiij"  vj.  unc*  et  dL 
170 


HENRY  VI 

ylpud  Sanctum  Bened'tctum.  1 4  CO 

Item,  ij.  basyns,  with  gilt  verges,  and  my  maisters  helmet  in  the  botom, 

with  ij.  ewers,  with  gilt  verges,  and  my  maisters  helme  on  the  lyddes, 

weiyng  togider  CCxxxj.  unces. 
Item,  iiij.  prikettes,  with  gilt  verges,  weiyng  xxxj.  uncea. 
Item,  ij.  lesser  prikettes,  weiyng  v.  unces. 
Item,  j.  basyn  and  j.  ewer,  with  my  maisters  armes  in  the  botom,  weiyng 

Ixiij.  unces. 
Item,  ij.  litill  ewers,  of  ij.  sortes,  weiyng  xxiiij.  unces. 
Item,  j.  spiceplate,  with  gilt  verges,  weiyng  xliiij.  unces. 
Item,  ij.  galons,  with  gilt  verges,  with  my  maisters  armes  in  the  liddes, 

weiyng  iiij""  xvj.  unces. 
Item,  ij.  potellers,  of  oon  sorte,  weiyng  iiij""  iiij.  unces. 
Item,  ij.  othir  potellers,  of  oon  sorte,  weiyng  iiij"  xiij.  unces. 
Item,  j.  potell  potte,  of  anothir  sorte,  weiyng  xxxv.  vmces. 
Item,  ij.  quartelettes,  of  dyvers  sortes,  weiyng  xlviij.  unces. 
Item,  j.  litill  botell,  with  j.  cheyne  and  j.  stopell,  weiyng  xxxviij.  unces. 
Item,  j.  brode  priket,  with  gilt  verges,  weiyng  xxiiij.  unces. 
Item,  ij.   candilstikkes,   ij.   prykettes,   and   iiij.   sokettes,  weiyng  xxxvij. 

unces. 
Item,  vj.  gobelettes,  of  dyvers  sortes,  weiyng  xxviij.  unces. 
Item,  xiiij.  peces,  of  dyvers  sortes,  weiyng  vj""  xv.  unces. 
Item,  j.  old  pece,  with  j.  kever  and  j.  knop,  weiyng  xxxij.  unces. 
Item,  ij.  chargeours,  of  oon  sorte,  weiyng  Ixxviij.  unces. 
Item,  vj.  platers,  of  oon  sorte,  weiyng  vij""  vij.  unces. 
Item,  xviij.  disshes,  of  dyvers  sortes,  weiyng  x"  xvj.  unces. 
Item,  vj.  sawsers,  of  oon  sorte,  weiyng  xxviij.  unces. 

Summa,  xv'^  xvij.  unces. 

Item,  j.  saltsaler,  alle  gilt,  with  j.  kever,  weiyng  xxxvij.  unces. 
Item,  j.  pese,  with  j.  kever,  all  gilt,  with  j.  knop,  weiyng  xxxj.  unces. 
Item,  j.  playne  pece,  gilt,  with  j.  kever,  weiyng  xxvj.  unces. 
Item,  j.  litill  pece,  gilt,  with  j.  kever,  weiyng  xviij.  unces. 

Summa,  v"  xij.  unces. 

Item,  j.  chargeour,  weiyng  xlv.  unces. 
Item,  viij.  platers,  weiyng  ix"  xj.  unces. 
Item,  viij.  disshes,  weiyng  vj""  v.  unces. 
Item,  viij.  saucers,  weiyng  xlix.  unces. 

Item,  j.  potell  potte,  with  gilt  verges,  enameled  in  the  top  with  violet  Teves, 
weiyng  xlix.  unces. 

Summa,  CCCC  iiij"  iij.  unces. 

Item,  j.  stondyng  cup,  with  j.  kever,  all  gilt,  weiyng  xxxviij.  unces. 
Item,  j.  founteyn,  all  gilt,  with  j.  columbyne  floure  in  the  bottom,  weiyng 
xxiij.  unces. 

Summa,  Ixj.  unces. 

171 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1 459  Item,  ij.  saltsalers,  weiyng  x'xxix.  unces. 

Item,  j.  candilstik,  with  ij.  sokettes,  weiyng  xxj.  unces. 

Item,  iiij.  flat  peces,  pounsed  in  the  bottom,  weiyng  xl.  unces. 

Item,  ij.  gobelettes,  pounsed,  weiyng  ix.  unces. 

Item,  xiij.  spones,  wherof  con  is  gilt,  weiyng  xvij.  unces. 

Item,  j.  ewer,  with  j.  knop,  weiyng  xiij.  unces. 

Item,  ij.  potellers,  with  my  maisters  armes  on  the  liddes,  weiyng  Ixxji. 

unces. 
Item,  j.  potell  potte,  with  braunches  on  the  lidde  enamelid,  weiyng  xlix. 

unces. 
Item,  iij.  pottes,  enameled  with  j.  garlond,  weiyng  v"  vij.  unces. 
Item,  j.  quart  pot,  weiyng  xxix.  unces. 
Item,  j.  grete  chargeour,  weiyng  Ixxix.  unces. 
Item,  iij.  lesser  chargeours,  weiyng  v"  xj.  unces. 
Item,  V.  platers,  of  oon  sorte,  weiyng  v"  xv.  unces. 
Item,  xij.  disshes,  of  oon  sorte,  weiyng  x""  ix.  unces. 
Item,  ix.  sausers,  of  oon  sorte,  weiyng  Ixiij.  unces. 

Summa,  M*  iiij"    xij.  unces 

Item,  j.   gobelet,  gilt,  with  j.  columbyne  m  the  bottom,  weiyng  xxiiij. 

unces. 
Item,  j.  stondyng  cup,  with  j.  kever,  weiyng  xxxv.  unces. 

Summa,  lix.  unces. 


Item 

Item 
Item 
Item 
Item 
Item 
Item 
Item 
Item 
Item 
Item 
Item 
Item 
Item 
Item 


Castre. 

ij.  prykettys,  with  gilt  yerges,  weiyng  xvij.  unces. 

ij.  cruettes,  oon  lakkyng  a  lydde,  weiyhg  viij.  unces. 

j.  litill  crosse,  with  j.  fote,  all  gilt,  weiyng  vij.  unces. 

j.  sakeryng  bell,  weiyng  xj.  unces. 

j.  chalice,  weiyng  xviij.  unces. 

j.  saltsaler,  weiyng  v.  unces. 

j.  paxbrede,^  weiyng         ^  unces. 

j.  grete  saltsaler,  with  j.  kever,  weiyng  xxvij.  unces. 

j.  playn  basyn,  with  j.  ewer,  weiyng  Iiij.  unces. 

ij.  flat  peces,  of  oon  sorte,  weiyng  xxij.  unces. 

xvij.  spones,  of  ij.  sortes,  weiyng  xviij.  unces. 

iiij.  platers,  weiyng  iiij"*  xiiij.  unces. 

vj.  disshes,  weiyng  iiij""  xiiij.  unces. 

iiij.  sausers,  weiyng  xviij.  unces. 

j.  candilstik,  withoute  sokettes,  weiyng  xviij.  unces. 

Summa,  CCCCx.  unces. 


>  A  small  tablet  with  a  representation  of  the  Crucifixion  on  it,  presented  to  be 
kissed  during  the  mass. 
*  Blank  in  MS. 

172 


c 

o 
Co 


HENRY  VI 

M''  of  xlvj.  unces  gold  and  ij*^-  Dxxv.  unces  of  silver  plate  taken  1 4.  C  Q 

from  Bermondesey. 
/In  primis,  a  peson  ^  of  gold,  it  fayleth  v.  balles,  weiyng  xxiij.  unces 

gold. 
Item,  j.  paire  basons,  beyng  2  bothe  weiyng  v^''  ij.  unces. 
Item,  j   paire  ewers,  beyng  2  bothe  weiyng  xlv.  unces. 
Item,  j.  paire  of  newe  flagons,  cheyned,  everyche  weiyng  Ixxiiij.  unces 

— vij"*  xiij.  unces. 
Item,  iiij.  platers,  parcell  of  ix.  platers  not  sortely,  weiyng  in  all  x"  ix. 
unces  ;  so  iche  weieth  xxiij.  unces.     Soo  the  weight  of  the  same  iiij. 
platers,  iiij"  xij.  unces. 
Item,  xij.  disshes,  weiyng  in  all  ix""  ix.  unces. 
Jtem,  xij.  sausers,  weiyng  in  all  iiij"  xvij.  unces. 
Summa  unciarum  argenti,  DClxxiij.  unc',  et  de  auro,  xxiij.  unc*. 

Item,  j.  cup  of  golde,  with  an  ewer,  weiyng  xxiij.  unces. 
Item,  ij.  spiceplates,  weiyng  bothe  iiij"  xij.  unces. 
Item,  ij.  olde  chargeours,  of  oon  sorte,  weiyng  iiij""  viij.  unces. 
Item,  j.  grete  plater,  weiyng  xxxviij.  unces. 
Item,  V.  olde  disshes,  weiyng  in  alle  Ixxvj.  unces. 
Item,  V.  sausers,  weiyng  xxix.  unces. 
Item,  ij.  quart  pottes,  weiyng  liiij.  unces. 
Item,  ix.  platers,  weiyng  xvj"  iij.  unces. 
Item,  a  flat  pece,  playne,  of  silver,  weiyng  xvj.  unces. 
Item,  a  quart  pot,  of  silver,  with  gilt  verges,  weiyng  xxvj.  unces. 
Item,  an  holowe  basyn,  of  silver,  weiyng  xxviij.  unces. 
Summa  unciarum  de  auro,  xxiij.  unc' ;  et  de  argento,  DCClxx.  unc'. 

Item,  ij.  stondyng  cuppes,  gilt,  of  oon  sorte,  iche  weiyng  xxiiij.  unces — 

Ixviij.  unces. 
Item,  vj.  gobelettes,  uncovered,  weiyng  xxiij.  unces  et  di. 
Item,  j.  layer,  weiyng  xxiiij.  unces. 
Item,  j.  saltsaler,  gilt,  weiyng  xxxiiij.  unces. 
Item,  ij.  lesse  chargeours,  weiyng  Ixx.  unces. 
Item,  V.  platers,  not  sortely,  parcell  of  ix.  platers,  weiyng  in  all  x""  ix. 

unces ;    so  iche  plater   weyeth   by  estymacion   xxiij.   unces.     So  the 

weight  of  V.  platers,  Cxv.  unces. 

Summa,  CCCxxxiiij.  unces  di. 

Item,  j.  saltsaler,  gilt,  with  a  cover,  weiyng  xxxj.  unces. 

Item,  iiij.  peces,  gilt,  with  ij.  coveres,  weiyng  Ixxiiij.  unces. 

Item,  vj.  Parys  cuppes,  of  silver,  of  the  Monethes,  with  lowe  fete,  the 

bordures  gilt,  weiyng  iiij"  x.  unces. 
Item,  j.  white  stondyng  cuppe,  with  a  cover  of  silver,  weiyng  xij.  unces  di. 

*  An  instrument  in  the  form  of  a  staff,  with  balls  or  crockets,  used  for  weighing, 
before  scales  were  employed  for  that  purpose. 

*  The  word  *  beyng '  in  these  two  places  seems  to  have  been  altered  to  *  weyng,' 
which  was  unnecessary. 

'73 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

I4C9  Item,  j.  knoppe,  for  a  covere,  gilt,  weiyng  j.  unce. 

Item,  j.  flagon,  of  silver  and  gilt,  accordyng  with  the  olde  inventarie, 

weiyng  x"  xviij  unces. 
Item,  anothir  flagon,  of  the  same  sorte  and  of  the  same  weight,  x'"  xviij. 
unces. 

Summa,  DCxliiij.  unces  di. 

Item,  j.  paire  of  olde  flagons,  iij.  pyntes,  fayleth  j.  stopell,  weiyng  iiij"  x. 

unces. 
Item,  j.  grete  sawser,  weiyng  vj.  unces  di. 
Item,  ij.  olde  cruettes,  weiyng  vj.  unces. 


389 


SIR  JOHN  FASTOLF'S  WARDROBE  1 

Memorandum. 

That  the  last  day  of  Octobre,  the  yere  of  the  reyne  of  King  Henri 

the  Sixt,  Sir  John  Fastolf,  Knyght,  hath  lefte  in  his  warderope  at  Castre,  this 
stuffe  of  clothys,  and  othir  harnays  that  followith,  that  is  to  wete : — 

Toga  remanencta  hoc  tempore  in  Garderoba  Domini. 

First,  a  goune  of  clothe  of  golde,  with  side  slevis,  sirples  wise. 

Item,  j.  nothir  gowne  of  clothe  of  golde,  with  streyght  slevys,  and  lynyd 

withe  blalc  clothe. 
Item,  halfe  a  gowne  of  red  felwett. 
Item,  j.  gowne  of  blewe  felwett  upon  felwet  longe  fiirrid  withe  martyrs, 

and  perfold^  of  the  same,  slevys  sengle. 
C.  Item,  j.  gowne,  clothe  of  grene,  of  iij.  yerds. 
Item,  j.  side  scarlet  gownys,  not  lynyd. 

Item,  j.  rede  gowne,  of  my  Lorde  Coromale  ^  is  lyverey,  lyned. 
Item,  j.  chymere  *  cloke  of  blewe  satayne,  lynyd  with  blake  silke. 
Item,  iij.  quarters  of  scarlet  for  a  gowne,  di.  quarter  of  the  same. 
Item,  j.  broken  gowne  of  sangweyne,  graynyd  with  the  slevys. 
Item,  j.  gowne  of  Frenche  russet,  lynyd  with  blak  clothe. 


*  [From  Archaeologia,  xxi.  252.]  This  roll  and  the  preceding  are  both  printed 
in  the  ArchaEoIogia  from  transcripts  made  by  Blomefield,  the  Norfolk  historian,  for 
his  friend  Sir  Andrew  Fountaine.  The  original  of  this  second  roll  we  have  not  met 
with. 

'  Trimmed.     The  word  is  more  commonly  written  '  purfled.' 
'  Cromwell. 

*  The  chammer  or  shamenu  was  a  gown  cut  in  the  middle.— 5//  Strutt's  Dress 
and  Habits  of  the  People  of  England,  ii.  359. 


HENRY  VI 

Item,  j.  chemer  of  blak,  lynyd  with  blak  bokerame.  ^459 

Item,  j.  gowne  of  blak,  lynyd  with  blak  lynyng. 
Item,  iij.  quarters  of  a  russet  gowne  with  ought  slevys. 
Item,  j.  jagged  huke  ^  of  blakke  sengle,  and  di.  of  the  same. 

U. 
Tunica  Remanentes  ibidem. 

Item,  j.  jakket  of  blewe  felwett,  lynyd  in  the  body  with  smale  lynen  clothe, 

and  the  slevys  withe  blanket. 
Item,  j.  jakket  of  russet  felwet,  lynyd  with  blanket  clothe. 
Item,  j.  jakket  of  red  felwet,  the  ventis  bounde  with  red  lether. 
Item,  j.  jakket  of  blakke  felwet  upon  felwet,  lynyd  with  smale  lynen  cloth. 
Item,  j.  jaket,  the  bret  and  slevys  of  blak  felvet,  and  the  remanent  of  russet 

fustian. 
Item,  ij.  jakketts  of  russet  felwet,  the  one  lynyd  with  blanket,  t'other  with 

lynen  clothe. 
Item,  ij.  jakketts  of  chamletts. 
Item,  j.  jakket  of  sateyne  fugre.^ 
Item,  j.  dowblettis  of  red  felwet  uppon  felwet. 
Item,  j.  jakket  of  blak  felwet,  the  body  lynyd  with  blanket  and  the  slevys 

with  blak  clothe. 
Item,  j.  dowbelet  of  rede  felwet,  lynyd  with  lynen  clothe. 
Item,  ij.  jakketts  of  derys  lether,  with  j.  coler  of  blak  felwet. 
Item,  j.  dowbelet  of  white  lynen  clothe. 
Item,  j.  pettecote  of  lynen  clothe  stofFyd  with  flokys. 
Item,  j.  petticote  of  lynen  clothe,  withought  slyves. 
Item.  ij.  payre  hosyn  of  blakke  keyrse. 
Item,  iij.  payre  bounden  with  lether. 
Item,  j.  payre  of  blake  hosyn,  vampayed  with  lether. 
Item,  ij.  payre  of  scarlet  hosyn. 

U 
V 

Capucia  et  Capella. 

Item,  j.  russet  hode,  with  owgt  a  typpet,  of  satyn  russet. 

Item,  j.  hode  of  blakke  felwet,  with  a  typpet,  halfe  damask  and  halie 

felwet,  y  jaggyd. 
Item,  j.  hode  of  depe  grene  felwet,  jakgyd  uppon  the  rolle. 
Item,  j.  hode  of  russet  felwet,  with  a  typpet,  half  of  the  same  and  half  of 

blewe  felwet,  lynyd  with  the  same  of  damaske. 


^  A  kind  of  mantle. — See  Strutt's  Dress  and  Habits,  ii.  363. 
'  Figured  or  branched  satin. 


175 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

I  ACQ  Item,  j.  hood  of  depe  grene  felwet,  the  typpet  blake  and  grene  felwet. 

Item,  j.  hood  of  russet  felwet  withougt  a  typpet. 

Item,  j.  hode  of  damaske  russet,  with  j.  typpet,  fastyd  with  a  lase  of  silke. 
Item,  j.  rydyng  hode  of  rede  felwet  with  iiij.  jaggys. 
Item,  j.  hode  of  skarlet,  with  a  rolle  of  purpill  felwet,  bordered  with  the 

same  felwet. 
Item,  j.  hode  of  blake  satayne,  the  rolle  of  blake  felwet. 
Item,  j.  of  purpill  felwet,  with  owten  rolle  and  typpet. 
Item,  j.  hode  of  russet  felwet,  the  typpet  lynyd  with  russet  silke. 
Item,  j.  typpet,  halfe  russet  and  halfe  blake  felwet,  with  j.  jagge. 
Item,  j.  rydynghoode  of  blakalyere,  lynyd  with  the  same. 
Item,  j.  rydyng  hoode  of  blakke  felwet,  i-lynyd  with  blakke  clothe. 
Item,  j.   hatte  of  bever,  lynyd  withe  damaske  gilt,  girdell,  bokkell,  and 

penaunt,  with  iiij.  barrys  of  the  same. 
Item,  j.  gret  rollyd  cappe  of  sangweyn,  greyned. 
Item,  ij.  skarlet  hoodys. 
Item,  iiij.  hodys  of  sangweyn,  graynyd. 
Item,  ij.  hodys  of  perce  blewe.     Item,  ij.  hodys  blakalyre. 
Item,  j.  knitte  cappe.     Item,  j.  unsette  poke. 
Item,  ij.  poyntys  of  a  hood  of  skarlot. 

Item,  j.  blake  rydyng  hoode,  sengle.     Item,  ij.  strawen  hattis. 
Item,  j.  blewe  hoode  of  the  Garter. 
Item,  j.  gowne  of  my  ladys,  sengle. 

Alia  res  necessaria  ibidem. 

Inprimis,  j.  canope  of  greene  silke,  borderyd  with  rede. 

Item,  iij.  trapuris,  with  iij.  clothis  of  the  same  sute. 

Item,  ij.  old  cheses  plis  [^chasubles']  of  rede. 

Item,  ij.  pokkettis    stufTyd   and    embraudyd    with    white    rosys   after    his 

devyce,  of  rede  with  crossis  leten  with  silver. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  scarlot,  embraudit  in  the  myddell,  containing  in  length  iij. 

yerds  and  di. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  blewe,  contaynyng  in  length  iij.  quarters,  and  in  brede  t. 

quarters. 
Item,  j.   pece  of  skarlot  for  trappars  for  horsys,   with  rede  crossis  and 

rosys. 
Item,  ij.  stripis  of  the  same  trappuris  sutly. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  Seynt  George  leveray,  for  j.  hode. 
Item,  j.  ball  of  coper  gilt,  embrauded  rechely  with  j.  skogen  \scutcheon] 

hongyng  therbi. 
Item,  ij.  pencellis  of  his  armys. 
Item,  ij.  yerds  and  j.  quarter  of  white  damaske. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  white  felwet  ij.  yerdis  longe. 

Item,  j.  pece  of  rede  satayne,  brauden  \embroidered'\  with  Me  f aunt  fere. 
Item,  ij.  strypes  of  the  same. 
Item,  ij.  cote  armours  of  silke,  aftir  his  own  arrays. 

176 


HENRY  VI 

Item,  j.  cote  armour  of  whyte  silke  of  Seynt  George.  ^459 

Item,  ij.  pecys  of  clothe  of  golde  of  tyssent. 

Item,  j.  pece  of  blak  kersey  with  rosys,  and  embraudit  with  Me  faunt 

fere- 
Item,  ij.  stripis  of  the  same  sute. 
Item,  ij.  peces  of  blewe  canvas  of  xlij.  yerds. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  linnen  cloth,  steyned. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  grene  wurstet  xxx.  yards  longe. 
Item,  iiij.  clokys  of  murry  ^  derke. 
Item,   j.    bollok  haftyd    dager,   harnesyd   wyth   sylver,^   and   j.    chape  ^ 

thertoo. 
Item,  j.  lytyll  schort  armyng  dager,  withe  j.  gilt  schape. 
Item,  iij.  payre  tablys  of  cipris,  being  in  casys  of  lether. 
Item,  j.  parre  tablys  of  G.,  enrayed  withowght,  and  here  men  in  baggys 

longyng  thertoo. 

E. 

Imprimis,  v.  pellowes  of  grene  silke. 

Item,  j.  pellow  of  silk  the  growund  white  wyth  lyllys  of  blewe. 

Item,  ij.  pellowes  of  rede  felwet  and  the  growund  of  ham  blakke. 

Item,  V.  pellowys  of  rede  felwet. 

Item,  ij.  pellowys  of  rede  felwet  beten  upon  satayne. 

Itein,  j.  littill  pellow  of  grene  sike,  full  wythin  of  lavendre. 

Item,  j.  pellow  of  purpyll  silke  and  golde. 

Item,  ij.  pellowes  of  blew  silke,  with  a  schelde. 

Item,  V.  large  carpettys. 

Imprimis,  j.  longe  pillowe  of  fustian. 

Item,  iij.  brode  pillowes  of  fustyan. 

Item,  ij.  pillowys  of  narwer  sorte  and  more  schorter,  of  fustyan. 

Item,  j.  longe  pellow  of  lynen  clothe. 

Item,  j.  pellow  of  a  lasse  sorte. 

Item,  j.  brode  pyllow  of  lynen  clothe. 

Item,  ij.  pillowes  of  lynen  clothe  of  a  lasser  assyse. 

Item,  viij.  pelowes  of  lynen  clothe  off  a  lasser  assyse. 

Item,  V.  of  the  lest  assyse. 

In  primis,  j.  cover  of  grene  silke  to  a  bedde,  lynyd  with  blewe  silke. 

Item,  j.  close  bedde  of  palle  grene  and  whyte,  with  levys  of  golde. 

Item,  j.  covyr  of  the  same. 

Item,  j.  covyr  of  rede  silke  lynyd  with  bokerame. 

Item,  j.  cover  of  white  clothe,  fyne  and  well-wrought,  purpeynte  [pourpo'mte 

or  stitched'^  wyse. 
Item,  j.  cover  of  raynis,  wrowght  with  golde  of  damaske. 
Item,  j.  donge  \mattress  or  feather  bed'\  of  purle  sylke. 


*  Dark  or  brownish  red.  '  Silver  twisted  round  the  haft. 

'  The  schape  or  chape  was  the  ferule  of  the  scabbard. — Dr.  Meyrick. 
VOL.  III. —  M  177 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

liCO  Item,  j.  seler  of  white  lynen  clothe. 

Item,  j.  testur  of  the  same.     Item,  iij.  curtaynys  sutely. 
Item,  iij.  cartaynyes  of  l)men  clothe. 
Item,  iij.  blankettis  of  fustian 

Clothu  of  Arras  and  of  Tapstre  nvarhe. 

Inprimis,  j.  clothe  of  arras,  clyped  the  Schipherds  clothe.^ 

Item,  j.  of  the  Assumpsion  of  Oure  Lady. 

Item,  j.  newe  banker  of  arras,  with  a  here  holdyng  j.  spere  in  the  middys  of 

the  clothe. 
Item,  j.  tester  of  arras  with  ij.  gentlewomen  and  ij.  gentlemen,  and  one 

holdyng  an  hawke  in  his  honde. 
Item,  j.  clothe  with  iiij.  gentle  women. 
Item,  j.  testour  of  arras  with  a  lady  crouned  and  a  grete  rolle  aboughte  her 

hede,  the  first  letter  N. 
Item,  j.  clothe  of  ix.  conquerouris. 
Item,  j.  cover  for  a  bedde,  of  newe  arras,  and  a  gentlewoman  beyng  ther 

in  the  corner  with  a  whelp  in  hir  honde  and  an  Awnus  Day  abought 

hir  nee. 
Item,  a  seler  of  arras  frangyd  with  silke,  red,  grene,  and  white. 
Item,  j.  testir  of  the  same,  red,  grene,  and  white. 
Item,  j.  testur  frangyd  with  grene  silke.     Item,  j.  seler  of  the  same. 
Item,  j.  clothe  for  the  nether  hall,  of  arras,  with  a  geyaunt  in  the  myddell, 

beryng  a  legge  of  a  bere  in  his  honde. 
Item,  j.   clothe  of  arras  for  the  dese  \ddis'\  in  the  same  halle,  with  j. 

wodewose  \a  savage^  and  j.  chylde  in  his  armys. 
Item,  j.  clothe  of  the  sege  of  Faleys  for  the  west  side  of  the  halle. 
Item,  j.  clothe  of  arras  with  iij.  archowrys  on  scheting  \shooting\  a  doke  in 

the  water  with  a  cross  bowe. 
Item,  j.   clothe  of  arras  withe  a  gentlewoman  harpyng  by  j.  castell  in 

myddys  of  the  clothe. 
Item,  j.  cover  of  arras  for  a  bedde,  with  a  mane  drawyng  water  in  the 

myddel  of  the  clothe  ought  of  a  welle. 
Item,  j.  lytell  tester  of  arras,  whith  j.  man  and  a  woman  in  the  rayddyll. 
Item,  j.  banker  ^  of  arras  with  a  man  schetyng  at  j.  blode  hownde. 
Item,  j.  clothe  of  arras  with  a  lady  crouned,  and  j.  rolle  abought  her  hedde 

with  A.  N.,  lynyd  with  gray  canvas. 
Item,  j.  clothe  of  arras  with  a  condyte  in  the  myddill. 
Item,  j.  clothe  of  arras,  with  a  gentlewoman  holding  j.  lace  of  silke,  and  j. 

gentlewoman  a  hauke. 
Item,  ij.  clothis  portrayed  full  of  popclers. 
Item,  j.  testyr  of  blewe  tapistry  warkc  with  viij.  braunchys. 
Item,  j.  blewe  hallyng  "  of  the  same  sute. 


1  Probably  representing  the  Adoration  of  the  Shepherds. 

2  Covering  for  a  bench.  s  Hanging  for  a  hall. 

178 


HENRY  VI 

Item,  j.  rede  clothe  of  v.  yerds  v.  dim.  of  lenthe.  1 4  r  o 

Item,  j.  banker  of  rede,  with  iij.  white  rosys  and  the  armys  of  Fastolf. 

Item,  j.  nothyr  clothe  of  rede,  with  v.  roses  sutly. 

Item,  j.  hallyng  of  blewe  worstet,  contayning  in  lenthe  xiij.  yerds,  and  in 

bredthe  iiij.  yerds. 
Item,  j.  hallyng  with  men  drawen  in  derke  grene  worsted. 
Item,  ij.  pecys  of  whyte  worsted,  bothe  of  one  lenthe. 
Item,   j.  hallyng  of  depe  grene,  contayning  in  lenthe  xj.  yerds,   and  in 

bredthe  ij.  yerds  and  one  halfe. 
Item,  j.  hallyng  of  the  same  sute,  lenthe,  and  brede. 
Item,  j.  tester  of  grene  and  whyte,  wyth  braunchis  sutely. 


F. 

Clothis  of  Arras, 

Item,  ij.   clothis  of  arras  for  the  chamboure  over  the  nether  halle,  of 

huntyng  and  of  haukyng. 
Item,  iij.  clothis  of  grene  and  whyte,  withe  braunchis  sutely  to  the  other 

wreten  before. 
Item,  a  coveryng  of  a  bedde  of  aras,  withe  hontyng  of  the  bore,  a  man  in 

blewe,  with  a  jagged  hoode,  white  and  rede. 

G. 

Canvas  in  the  Warderop  and fyne  Lynen  Clothe  of  dyvers  sortes. 

First  ix.  berys  for  fetherbeddys. 

Item,  iiij.  transomers. 

Item,  j.  pece  of  lynen  clothe,  countyng  lenthe  and  brede  iiij"-  ellys,  and 

the  tone  ende  kit  and  nought  enselyd  and  the  other  ende  hole. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  lynen  clothe,  yerde  brode,  contaynyng  xiiij.  yerds  and  more, 

and  not  sealed. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  grete  lynen  clothe,  yerde  brode,  of  xxij.  yerds. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  yerde  brode,  xxiv.   yerds   iij.   quarters,   pro  Willelrao 

Schipdam. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  a  yerde  and  a  halfe  quarter  brode,  of  xxv.  yerds  and  iij. 

quarters,  pro  Willelmo  Schypdam. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  yerde  brode,  of  xij.  yerds  and  j.  quarter.  , 

Item,  j.  pece  of  fyne  lynen  clothe,  yerd  brode,  of  Ivj.  yerdys  of  lenthe. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  grete  clothe,  yerde  brode,  of  Ivij.  yerds. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  grete  clothe  of  xxiiij.  yerds. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  clothe  leke  of  xxviij.  yerds. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  clothe  of  xxxvij.  yerds  et  dim. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  grete  clothe  of  xxij.  yerdys  per  Willm.  Schypdham. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  clothe  lyke  of  xxxij.  yerds  and  j.  quarter. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  lyke  clothe  of  xxxvj.  yerds,  per  Willm.  Schypdam. 

179 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1459  Item,   j.   pece   of  clothe   of  xxxiij.   yerds  and  j.   quarter,    per  Willm. 

Schypdam. 
Item,  j.  pece   of  xxvij.   yerds  j.   quarter.      Item,  j.   pece  of  x.   yerds 

dim. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  viij.  yerds.     Item,  j.  pece  of  xxviij.  yerds  iij.  quarters. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  xix.  yerds  dim.     Item,  j.  pece  of  xxij.  yerds  j.  quarter. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  xiij.  yerds  j.  quarter.     Item,  j.  pece  of  xxiij.  yerds. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  xxvij.  yerds  j.  quarter.     Item,  j.  pece  of  xxx.  yerds 

dim. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  xxxij.   yerds  dim.     Item,  j.  pece  of  xlj.  yerds  and  j. 

quarter. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  xxxj.   yerds  dim.      Item,  j.  pece  of  xviij.  yerds  iij. 

quarters. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  xiij.  yerds.     Item,  j.  pece  of  xiiij.  yerds. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  xlv.  yerds.     Item,  j.  pece  of  viii.  yerds  dim. 
Item,   j.   pece   of  xiij.    yerds   dim.       Item,   j.    pece   of  xxij.   yerds  j. 

quarter. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  xxxix.  yerds. 

Item,  j.  pece  of  xxxiij.  yerds  j.  quarter  of  beter  clothe. 
Item,   ij.   roUys  of  lynen  clothe,  both  not  moten.      Item,   Ix.   yerds  of 

clothe. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  Seland  clothe,  with  dyrers  sealys  at  the  endys. 

Summa  totalis,  xl.  peces. 

Summa  totalis  istius  folij  ultra  ij.  rolles  cone'  Ix.  virg*  et  in  pece  sigillat' 
cum  Domini  secreto  sigillo  uti  in  fine  paginse,  ml.  xxxvij.  virg.  ij. 
quart,  dim.  per  C.  que  re. 

Manent,  cum  tribus  pecijs  restitutis. 


H. 

Adhuc  in  Garderoba  in  domo  Superiori. 

Item,  iij.  grete  brasse  pottys  of  Frenche  makyng. 

Item,  j.  grete  chafron  of  brasse.     Item,  ij.  chafernes  of  a  lase  sorte. 

Item,  iiij.  chafernes  of  the  French  gyse  for  sewys.     Item,  j.  panne. 

Item,  j.  litell  potte  of  brasse.     Item,  ij.  chamber  basons  of  pewter. 

Item,   iiij.    chargeourys.       Item,   vj.    platowres.      Item,   vj.   sawsers  of 

pewter. 
Item,  iiij.  candylstykkeys  of  my  mayster  is  armys  und  my  ladyes,  copper 

and  gilt. 
Item,  j.  fountayne  of  latayne  to  sette  in  pottys  of  wine. 
Item,  ij.  hangyng  candylstykkes.     Item,  ij.  maundys  [dasietsl^. 
Item,  j.  basket  of  wykers.     Item,  xxj.  bowys. 
Item,  viij.  schefe  arrowys  of  swanne. 
180 


HENRY  VI 

Camera  ultra  Buttellarium  pro  extraneis.  I4?9 

Item,  j.  fedder  bedde.     Item,  j.  bolster.     Item,  j.  pillowe. 
Item,  ij.  blankettys.     Item,  j.  payre  of  schetys. 
Item,  j.  purpeynt  of  white.     Item,  j.  seloure.     Item,  j.  testoure. 
Item,  ij.  curtaynys  of  the  same  sute.     Item,  j.  cobbord  clothe  of  the 
same. 

Magna  Camera  ultra  Aulam  Estevalem. 

In  primis,  j.  fetherbedde.     Item,  j.  bolster.     Item,  j.  seler. 

Item,  j.  tester,  withe  one  gentlewoman  in  grene,  taking  a  mallard  in  hir 

hondes. 
Item,  j.  coveryng,  with  j.  geyaunt  smytyng  a  wilde  bore  with  a  spere. 
Item,  iij.  courtaynes  of  grene  silke. 
Item,  j.  clothe  of  arras,  of  the  Schipherds. 

The  White  Chambour  next  the  Gret  Chaumbury  sumlyme  Nicholas  Bokkeyng 

is  Chaumbre. 

In  primis,  j.  fedder  bedde.     Item,  j.  bolster.     Item,  j.  pyllowe  of  doun. 

Item,  ij.  blankettys  bon. 

Item,  j.  payre  of  schetys,  every  schete  iiij.  schete  iiij.  webbes. 

Item,  j.  coveryng  of  whyte  lynen  clothe.     Item,  j.  purpoynt. 

Item,  j.  tester.     Item,  j.  seler.     Item,  iij.  curtaynys  of  whyte. 

Item,  j.  fedder  bedde.     Item,  j.  bolster.     Item,  ij.  blankettys. 

Item,  iij.  payre  of  schetys.     Item,  ij.  coverlettes  of  grene  warke. 

Item,  j.  cobbord  clothe. 

The  Chaumbourey  sumtyme/or  Stephen  ScropCy  hangyng  clothys  portrayed 
tvith  the  Schipherds. 

Item,  j.  federbedde.     Item,  j.  bolster. 

Item,  ij.  fustian  blanketts,  every  of  hem  vj.  webbys. 

Item,  j.  pyllowye  of  downe.     Item,  j.  pyllowe  of  lavendre. 

Item,  j.  cover  of  apres  \_ypres  ?],  lynyd  with  lynen  clothe. 

Item,  j.  tester  and  j.  seler  of  the  same.     Item,  iij.  curtaynes  of  rede  saye. 

Item,  j.  clothe  hangyng  of  Schovelers. 

Item,  j.  rede  curtayne  o  saye  for  the  chayre. 

Item,  iiij.  cosschonys  of  rede  say.     Item,  j.  cobbord  clothe. 

Item,  j.  rynnyng  bedde  with  a  materas.  ' 

Item,  j.  bolster.     Item,  ij.  blankettis.     Item,  j.  payre  of  schetys. 

Item,  j.  coverlet  of  yellow  clothe. 

Raffman  is  Chambour. 

Item,  j.  fedder  bedde.     Item,  j.  bolster.     Item,  j.  blanket. 

Item,  j.  payre  of  schetys.     Item,  j.  redde  panne  of  kinyng  skynnys. 

i8i 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

I4CQ  Item,  j.  testour.     Item,  j.  selour  of  rede  saye. 

Item,  j.  hangyng  clothe  of  popelers.     Item,  ij.  tapettis  with  clowdys. 
Item,  j.  coveryng  of  grene  saye.     Item,  j.  coverlet  of  other  warke. 

The  Teomen  is  Chambur  for  Straungers. 

In  primis,  iij.  fether  beddys.     Item,  iij.  boisterys.     Item,  j.  materas. 

Item,  V.  blankettys.     Item,  iij.  payre  of  schctys. 

Item,  j.  coverlet  of  grene  warke. 

Item,  ij.  coverynges  of  white,  grene,  and  blewe. 

Item,  ij.  hangyng  clothys  of  the  same. 

The  JVh'tte  hangyd  Chambre  next  Inglose  is  Chamboure. 

In  primis,  j.  feddebedde.     Item,  j.  bolster.     Item,  ij.  blankettys. 
Item,  j.  payre  of  schetys.     Item,  j.  pillowe  of  downe. 
Item,  j.  purpoynt  white  hangyd.     Item,  j.  hangyd  bedde. 
Item,  j.  selere.     Item,  j.  testoure.     Item,  iij.  curtaynys  of  white. 
Item,  j.  curtayne  of  the  same. 

Inglose  Chambre. 

In  primis,  j.  fedder  bedde.     Item,  j.  bolster. 

Item,  ij.  blanketts  of  fustian,  everyche  of  them  vj.  webbes. 

Item,  j.  peyre  of  schetys,  every  schete  iij.  webbys.     Item,  j.  hed  schete. 

Item,  j.  pillowe  of  downe.     Item,  j.  pillowe  of  lavendre. 

Item,  j.  covering  of  aras.     Item,  j.  testoure. 

Item,  j.  seleure  of  the  same.     Item,  j.  pane  furryd  with  menevere. 

Item,  iij.  courtaynys  of  rede  saye.     Item,  v.  clothes  of  tapserey  warke. 

Item,  j.  bankere  clothe  of  the  same.     Item,  j.  cusschen  of  redde  silke. 

Item,  iiij.  of  rede  saye.     Item,  j.  cobbord clothe.     Item,  j.  paylette. 

Item,  j.  bolster.     Item,  j.  blanket.     Item,  j.  payre  of  schetys. 

Item,  j.  coverlyte.     Item,  j.  grene  carpette. 

The  White  hangyd  Chambour  next  the  Warderobe. 

In  primis  j.  fedderbedde.     Item,  j.  bolster.     Item,  ij.  blankettys. 

Item,  j.   payre  of  schettys.      Item,  j.   hed  schete.      Item,  j.   pillow  of 

downe. 
Item,  j.  pillow  of  lavendre. 
Item,  j.  purpoynt  white,  with  a  scuchon  after  an  horse  wyse,  v«ure  and 

braunchis  of  grene. 
Item,  j.  selour.     Item,  j.  testour.     Item,  iij.  curtaynys  of  lynen  clothe. 

Cole  and  IVatkyn  is  Chamboure  that  was  for  the  two  auditourys. 

Item,  ij.  materasse.     Item,  ij.  blankettys.     Item,  ij.  schetys. 
Item,  j.  bolster.     Item,  j.  coverlet  of  white  warke  withe  burdys. 
Item,  j.  testour  of  red  saye.     Item,  j.  seler  of  caoTas. 
182 


HENRY  VI 

The  Porter  is  Chambour.  t-jV 

In  primis,  j.  fedder  bedde.     Item,  j.  bolster.     Item,  j.  payre  of  schetys. 
Item,  j.  blankett.     Item,  j.  coveryng  cloth. 
Item,  j.  curtayne  of  rede  saye. 

The  Chambour  agenest  the  Porter  is  Chamboure. 

In  primis,  j.  fedder  bedde.     Item,  j.  bolster.     Item,  j.  payre  of  schetys. 
Item,  j.  payre  of  blankettys.     Item,  ij.  coverlettys  of  grene  and  yolowe. 
Item,  j.  seler  of  blewe  panes  and  white.     Item,  ij.  pecys  of  saye. 

The  Chamber  over  the  Draught  Brigge. 

In  primis,  j.  fedder  bed,  covered  withe  gray  canvas.     Item,  j.  bolster. 

Item,  ij.  blankettys,  j.  payre  of  schettys. 

Item,  j.  rede  pane  furryd  withe  connyngs. 

Item,  j.  testour,  and  j.  selour  of  rede  saye  with  Me  fount  fere. 

Schipdam  is  Chambre. 

In  primis,  j.  fedderbedde.     Ijem,  ij.  blangettis.     Item,  ij.  schetys. 

Item,  j.  bolster. 

Item,  j.   coverlet  of  white  rosys,  at  every  corner  iiij.,  and  one  in  the 

myddell. 
Item,  j.  seler  of  rede  say. 

Item,  j.  testour  of  rede  say,  lynyd  wythe  canvas.     Item,  j.  chayre. 
Item,  j.  pece  of  rede  say  for  accomptyng  borde. 

Item,  iiij.  cosschonys  rede  say.     Item,  j.  aundiren.     Item,  j.  iirepanne. 
Item,  j.  payre  of  tongus.     Item,  iij.  formys.     Item,  j.  junyd  stole. 

The  Inner  Chaumbour  over  the  Gatis. 

In  primis,  j.  federbedde.     Item,  j.  bolster.     Item,  ij.  blankettes. 
Item,  j.  gardevyaunt  [meat  safe].     Item,  ij.  cosschonys  of  blewe  say. 
Item,  j.  junyd  stole. 

The  Myddell  Chambour. 

In  primis,  j.  feder  bedde.     Item,  j.  materas.     Item,  j.  quylt. 
Item,  ij.  coverletts  of  rede  say.     Item,  j.  testour  withe  a  selour. 
Item,  ij.  courtaynys  of  rede  say.     Item,  j.  testoure  of  the  same.       > 
Item,  j.  payre  of  tongys. 

Camera  Bokiyng  in  le  Basecourte. 

In  primis,  j.  fedderbedde.     Item,  j.  bolster. 

Item,  ij.  payre  of  schetys.     Item,  ij.  blankettys. 

Item,  j.  coverlete  of  popelers,  lynyd  with  whyte  lynnyng  clothe. 

Item,  j.  selour.     Item,  j.  testour  of  rede  saye. 

•«3 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1459  The  Coke  is  Chambour. 

Item,  j.  feder  bedde.     Item,  j.  bolster.     Item,  ij.  schetys. 
Item,  j.  redde  coverlyte  of  rosys  and  blood  houndys  hedys. 

Feraufe  \or  Fitzrauf^  is  Chambre. 

Item,  j.  fedderbedde.     Item,  j.  bolster.     Item.  j.  payre  of  schetys. 
Item,  ij.  blankettys.     Item,  j.  coverlyte.     Item,  j.  testour. 
Item,  j.  selour  of  blewe  clowded. 

Thomas  Fastolff  Chamboure. 

Item,  j.  fedderbed.     Item,  j.  bolster.     Item,  j.  payre  of  schetys. 
Item,  ij.  blankettis.     Item,  j.  rede  coverlet. 
Item,  j.  coveryng  of  worstet.     Item,  j.  testour. 
Item,  j.  selour  of  rede  say,  withe  the  armys  of  Fastolf. 

The  Bedde  in  the  grete  StabuH. 

Item,  j.  materas.     ItAn,  j.  payre  of  schetys. 
Item,  j.  coverlyt  of  blewe  and  rede. 

The  Bedde  in  the  Sumer  StabulL 

Item,  j.  materas.     Item,  j.  payre  of  schetys. 
Item,  J.  coverlyte  of  blewe  and  rede. 

The  Gardinares  Chambre. 

In  primis,  j.  bolster.     Item,  j.  materas.     Item,  j.  payre  of  schetys. 

Item,  ij.  blankettys.     Item,  j.  coverlet  of  blewe. 

Item,  j.  nother  of  better  blewe.     Item,  j.  materas.     Item,  j.  bolster. 

Item,  j.  carpet.     Item,  j.  coveryng  of  grene  say. 

Item,  j.  coveryng  of  popelerys.     Item,  j.  selour  of  blewe. 

My  Maister  is  Chambre  and  the  withe  draughte  withe  the  Stable. 

In  primis,  j.  fedderbedde.     Item,  j.  donge  of  fyne  blewe. 
Item,  j.  bolster.    Item,  ij.  blankettys  of  fustians. 
Item,  j.  payre  of  schetis.     Item,  j.  purpeynt. 
Item,  j.  hangyd  bedde  of  arras.     Item,  j.  testour.     Item,  j.  selour. 
Item,  j.  coveryng. 

Item,  iij.  curtaynes  of  grene  worsted. 
Item,  j.  bankeur  of  tapestre  warke. 
Item,  iiij.  peces  hangyng  of  grene  worsted. 

Item,  j.  banker  hangyng  tapestry  worke.     Item,  j.  cobbord  clothe. 
Item,  ij.  staundyng  aundyris.     Item,  j.  feddefflok. 
Item,  j.  chafern  of  laten.     Item,  j.  payre  of  tongys. 
184 


HENRY  VI 

Item,  j.  payre  of  bellewes.     Item,  j.  litell  paylet.     Item,  ij.  blankettys.  '459 

Item,  j.  payre  of  schetys.     Item,  j.  coverlet. 

Item,  vj.  white  cosschynes.     Item,  ij.  lytell  bellys. 

Item,  j.  foldyng  table.     Item,  j.  longe  chayre.     Item,  j.  grene  chayre. 

Item,  j.  hangyng  candylstyk  of  laton. 

In  Camera  and  Warda  nuper  pertinentibus  Domina  Mylcentia  FastolJ, 

In  primis,  j.  fedder  bedde.     Item,  j.  bolster.     Item,  j.  materas. 

Item,  j.  quelte.     Item,  smale  pyllowes  of  downe. 

Item,  j.  hongyd  bedde  of  fyne  whyte.     Item,  ij.  smale  payletts. 

Item,  j.  rede  coverlet.     Item,  j.  leddre  pyllewe.     Item,  j.  basyn. 

Item,  j.  ewer.     Item,  ij.  pottys. 

Item,  ij.  lyttyll  ewers  of  blew  glasses,  powdered  withe  golde. 

The  Chambure  there  Margaret  Hodessone  laye. 

Item,  j.  fedderbedde.     Item,  j.  bolster.     Item,  ij.  fustians. 
Item,  j.  chayre  withe  j.  pece  of  palle  white  and  grene. 

The  utmost  Chambur  nexte  Winter  Halle. 

Item,  j.  fedder  bedde.     Item,  j.  bolster. 

Item,  j.  coverjmg  of  grene  worsted.     Item,  ij.  staiindyng  aundeirys. 

Item,  j.  hangyng  candylstyk  of  laton. 

Item,  j.  cobbord  clothe.     Item,  j.  rede  chayre. 

The  White  Draught  Chamber  for  Lenuys  and  William  Worcester. 

In  primis,  j.  fedder  bedde.     Item,  j.  donge.     Item,  j.  bolster. 
Item,  j.  hangyd  bedde.     Item,  j.  testour. 

Item,  j.  selour  of  rede  worsted,  i-hangyd  with  clothe  of  pale,  blake,  white, 
and  grene.     Item,  j.  arstellawe. 


In  primis,  ij.  pecys  of  satayne  after  the  fassion  of  a  dowblet  to  were  under 

gownes. 
Item,  viij.  quarters  of  silk,  the  slevys  of  the  same  rolled  to  gedder  for 

jakketts. 
Item,  j.  jakke  of  blakke  lynen  clothe  stufFyd  with  mayle. 
Item,  vj.  jakkes  stufFyd  with  home. 

Item,  j.  jakke  of  blake  clothe  lyned  with  canvas  mayled.  ^ 

Item,  xxiiij.  cappes,  stuffed  withe  home,  and  sum  withe  mayle. 
Item,  vj.  payre  glovys  of  mayle,  of  schepys  skynne,  and  of  doos. 
Item,  iij.  grete  crosbowes  of  stele,  with  one  grete  dowble  W3rndas  ther 

too. 
Item,  j.  coffyre,  full  of  quarrellys  of  a  smale  sorte. 
Item,  xij.  quarrellis  of  grete  sorte,  feddered  with  brasse. 
Item,  vj.  payre  curassis.     Item,  j.  payre  of  breggandires. 

'8J    . 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

^459  Item,  iij.  harburyones  of  I'MiJayne. 

Item,  V.  ventayletts  for  bassenetts.     Item,  vj.  peces  of  mayle. 

Item,  j.  garbrasse.     Item,  j.  polleson.     Item,  vj.  payre  grevys. 

Item,  iiij.  payre  thyes.     Item,  xj.  bassenetts.     Item,  j.  payre  coschewes. 

Item,  j.  payre  bregandines,  helyd  with  rede  felwet.     Item,  j.  spere. 

Item,  ij.  bassenetts.     Item,  ij.  saletts  withe  ij.  visers. 

Item,  viij.  saletts,  white,  withe  oute  vesoure.     Item,  v.  payre  Tambras. 

Item,  iij.  spere  heddys.     Item,  j.  swerde  with  a  gyld  chape. 

Item,  j.  prikkyng  hat,  covered  withe  blake  felwet. 

Item,  ij.  tarcellys  on  hym  be  hynde.     Item,  iij.  gonnes,  called  serpentins. 

Item,   ij.   white  payre  of  brigaundiris.      Item,   ij.    payre  hosyn   of  blak 

kersey. 
Item,  payre  bounde  wyth  lether.     Item,  ij.  payre  of  skarlat. 
Item,  j.  payre  of  blake  vampayed  withe  lether. 
Item,   ij.  jakketts  of  russet  felwet.      Item,  ij.  aundyrys,  grete,  of  one 

sorte. 
Item,  ij.  lasse,  of  anothyr  sorte.     Item,  iij.  lesser  aundiris. 
Item,  xi.  aunderis  for  lecchen.     Item,  j.  iren  spitte. 
Item,  ix.  barrys  of  iren  for  curtaynes. 
Item,  ij.  chaynes  for  the  draught  brigge. 

Magna  Aula. 

xj.  crosbowes  whereof  iij.  of  stele,  and  v.  wyndas.     Item,  j.  borespere. 

Item,  vj.  wifles.     Item,  j.  rede  pavys.     Item,  j.  target 

Item,  xxj.  speris.     Item,  j.  launce  gay.     Item,  iij.  pecys  of  rede  worsted. 

Item,  j.  grene  chayre.     Item,  j.  red  chayre. 

Item,  j.  pece  of  rede  worsted  in  the  toure  parloure. 

Item,  j.  banker  of  tapestry  worke. 

Item,  j.  nothir  of  tapestry  warke  newe,  in  the  hall  wendewe. 

Iteni)  yij.  cosschenys  of  tapestre. 

Aula  TemaTu. 

Item,  j.  clothe  of  arras,  of  the  Morysch  daunce.  • 

Item,  ij.  chayrys  fraungyd.     Item,  j.  rede  chayre  di.  dos  (?). 
Item,  di.  dosn.  of  tapestrye  warke.     Item,  j.  banker  of  aras. 
Item,  ij.  andyris  stondyng. 

Celar. 

In  the  seler,  certayn  vessell  whiche  John  Ouresby  is  chargid  withe  by  an 

endenture,  wherof  the  copy  is  annexed  to  this  lese. 
Item,  ij.  pypes  of  rede  wyne. 

The  Bottre. 

Item,  ij.  kervyng  knyvys. 

Item,  iij.  kneyvcs  in  a  schethe,  the  haftys  of  every,  withe  naylya  gilt. 

l86 


HENRY  VI 

Item,  j.  payre  galon  bottels  of  one  sorte.  ^459 

Item,  j.  payre  of  potell  botellys  of  one  sorte. 

Item,  j.  nother  potell  bottell.     Item,  j.  payre  quartletts  of  one  sorte. 

Item,  iiij.  galon  pottis  of  lether.     Item,  iij.  pottelers  of  lether. 

Item,  j.  trencher  knyfe.     Item,  j.  grete  tankard.  ' 

Item,  ij.  grete  and  hoge  bottelis.     Item,  xiiij.  candylstykkys  of  laton. 

Item,  certayn  pecys  of  napre,  accordyng  to  a  bylle  endentyd  annexed  to 

this  lese. 
Item,  j.  quartelet  for  wine. 

In  primis,  iij.  chargeres  argenti  de  parvo  sorte.     Item,  v.  platers  argenti. 

Item,  xij.  dissches  argenti  unius  sortis. 

Item,  viij.  dissches  argenti  minoris  sortis. 

Item,  xj.  sawseris  argenti  unius  sortis. 

Item,  iij.  crateras  argenti,  quarum,  j.  data  Margarets  Hoddsone. 

Item,  iij.  covertorijs  argenti  enamelid  and  borage  floures  in  les  botimes. 

Item,  vj.  chacyd  pecys  gilte  bi  the  bordurys,  with  the  towche  of  Paryce. 

Item,  ij.  pottis  argenti  potlers,  percell  gilte  and  enameled  with  violetts  and 

dayseys. 
Item,  ij.  pottis  of  sylver,  of  the  facion  of  goods  enamelyd  on  the  toppys 

withe  hys  armys. 
Item,  j.  quarteler  argenti,  percel  gift  withe  j.  chase  a  bought  of  rosys  and 

levys. 
Item,  j.  rounde  salt  seler,  gylt  and  covered  with  a  wrethe  toppe  with  this 

wordy  s  wreten.  Me  faunt  fere,  a  bowght. 
Item,  j.  salt  seler,  pacell  of  the  same  fassion  sengle. 
Item,  ij.  salt  selers  of  sylver,  playne  and  smale  with  a  dowble  rose  graven 

withe  armys. 
Item,   j.    basyn  of  sylver,  percell  gylte,  with  a  dowble  rose,  his  armis 

enamelid  in  the  bottom  be  with  his  helme  and  his  crest. 

Liberat^  London*  cum  Domino. 

Item,  j.  nother  bacyn,  white,  of  the  same  facion,  enamilid  with  his  armys 

in  the  bottom. 
Item,  ij.  ewars  ther  withe. 

Item,  j.  lytyll  sylver  bacyn  playne,  with  j.  flat  ewer. 
Item,  j.  goboleit  chaced,  the  bordours  gilt. 
Item,  xvj.  sponys  of  sylver,  withe  knappys  gylt  lyke  perle. 
Item,  j.  candylstyk  of  sylver,  percell  gylt,  dowble  nosyd. 
Item,  j.  rounde  basyn  argenti  cum,  j.  ewer  argenti  playn. 
Item,  ij.  grete  bacyns  of  sylver,  the  bourdour  is  gylt  and  wretyn  abought, 

Me  fount  fere. 
Item,  ij.  ewers  accordyng  ther  to.     Item,  j.  lytyll  stert  panne  of  sylver. 
Item,  ij.  disschys  of  sylver  founden  in  my  lady  is  chambre. 
Item,  ij.  smale  pecys. 

Item,  j.  saltseler  boliouned  inwarde,  covered  and  gylt. 
Item,  j.  stondyng  coppe  gylte,  with  j.  knappe  in  maner  like  perle. 

187 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

l^rQ  Item,  ij.  playn  borde  clothys  for  my  maister  is  table,  counte  ix.  yerds  in 

'  ^  lengthe. 

Item,  ij.  playne  clothis  for  my  maisters  table,  ece  counte  vj.  yerds. 

Item,  vj.  napkyns  playn. 

Item,  iiij.  tewelles  playn  warke,  eche  cont'  in  lenthe  ij.  yerds,  dim'. 

Item,  iiij.  playne  clothis  for  the  hall,  eche  of  vj.  yerds. 

Item,  ij.  wasschyng  tewellys  of  warke,  eche  of  x.  yerds. 

Item,  j.  pocter  (?).     Item,  j.  overpayn  of  Raynes 

Cape/la. 

Inprimis,  ij.  antyfeners.     Item,  j.  legande  of  hoole  servyce. 

Item,  ij.  myssayles,  the  one  noted  and  closyd  wyth  sylver,  and  the  other  not 

noted. 
Item,  j.  sauter  claspyd  with  sylver,  and  my  mayster  is  arrays  and  my  ladyes 

ther  uppon. 
Item,  j.  mortellege  covered  withe  white  ledes. 
Item,  j.  vestement  covered  withe  crownes  gilt  in  the  myddes,  with  all  the 

apparayle. 
Item,  j.  vestement  hole  of  redde  damaske  warke. 
Item,  j,  vestement  of  blak  clothe  of  golde,  with  the  hole  ornaments. 
Item,  j.  auter  clothe,  withe  a  frontell  of  white  damaske,  the  Trynete  in  the 

myddys. 
Item,  j.  vestement  of  tunekell.     Item,  j.  cope  of  white  damaske,  withe  the 

ornaments. 
Item,  j.  awbe.     Item,  j.  stole. 

Item,  j.  favon,  encheked  white  and  blewe.     Item,  j.  auter  clothe. 
Item,  ij.  curtaynes  of  white  sylke,  withe  a  frontell  of  the  same,  with 

fauchouns  of  golde. 
Item,  j.  vestement  of  divers  colurys,  withe  a  crosse  of  golde  to  the  bakke, 

iiij.  birdys  quartelye. 
Item,  j.  crosse  of  sylver  and  gylt,  with  oure  Lady  and  Seynt  John. 
Item,  j.  chales  sylver  and  gylt.     Item,  j.  pax  brede. 
Item,  j.  crucyfyxe,  thereon  withe  oure  Lady  and  Seynt  John  enamelyd,  and 

full  of  flour  delys. 
Item,  ij.  candylstykkys  of  sylver,  the  borduris  gylt. 
Item,  ij.  cruettys  of  sylver,  percell  gylt. 
Item,  iij.  pyllowes  stondyng  on  the  autre  ofF  rede  felwet  withe  flowrys 

enbrawderid. 
Item,  ij.  carpettis.     Item,  iiij.  cosschenys  of  grene  worstede. 
Item,  j.  chayre  in  the  closet  of  Fraunce,  fregid. 
Item,  j.  cosschon  of  redde  worsted.     Item,  j.  sakeryng  bell  of  sylver. 

Puinna. 

Item,  j.  bulter.     Item,  j.  ranell.     Item,  ij.  payre  wafer  irens. 
Item,  ij.  basketts.     Item,  j.  seve.     Item,  j.  payre  trayes  cum  j.  coler. 
Item,  j.  materas.     Item,  j.  blanket.     Item,  j.  payre  of  chetis. 
Item,  j.  coverlyte. 

i88 


HENRY  VI 

Breivhousee.  \  ac  q 

Item,  xij.  ledys.     Item,  j.  mesynfate  \rnashing  /i/3].      Item,  j.  yelfate  \ale 

Item,  viij.  kelers,  &c. 

Coquena. 

Item,  j.  gret  bras  pote.     Item,  vj.  cours  pottys  of  brasse. 

Item,  iiij.  lytyll  brasse  pottis.     Item,  iiij.  grete  brasse  pottis. 

Item,  iij.  pike  pannys  of  brasse. 

Item,  ij.  ladels  and  ij.  skymers  of  brasse. 

Item,  j.  caudron,  j.  dytyn  panne  of  brasse,  j.  droppyng  panne. 

Item,  j.  gredyren,  iiij.  rakkys,  iij.  cobardys,  iij.  trevitts. 

Item,  j.  fryeyng  panne,  j.  sclyse. 

Item,  ij.  grete  square  spittys,  ij.  square  spittys  cocnos. 

Item,  ij.  lytyll  brocchys  rounde,  j.  sars  of  brasse. 

Item,  j.  brasyn  morter  cum  j.  pestell,  j.  grate,  j.  sarche  of  tre. 

Item,  j.  flessche  hoke,  ij.  potte  hokys,  j.  payr  tongys. 

Item,  j.  dressyng  knyfe,  j.  fyre  schowle,  ij.  treys,  j.  streynour. 

Item,  j.  venegre  botell. 

Larderia. 

Item,  iij.  grete  standere  pannes,  j.  bochers  axe. 

Item,  ij.  saltyng  tubbes.     Item,  viij.  lynges.     Item,  iiij.  mulwellfyche. 

Item,  j.  barell,  dim.  alec.  alb.  di. 

Item,  j.  barrell.  anguill.,  unde  car.  cc.  anguill. 

Item,  j.  ferkyn  anguill.  hoole.     Item,  j.  barrell. 

Item,  j.  busschell  salt  albi.     Item,  j.  quart,  alb  sal. 


FASTOLF'S  COLLEGE  1 

ULTIMA  exitacio  domini   Johannis  Fastolf  ad  conclu- 
dendum  festinanter  cum  Johanne  Paston  fuit  quod 
vicecomes  Bemond,  Dux  Somerset,  comes  Warwyk, 
voluerunt    emere,   et   quod  intendebat    quod    executores   sui 

*  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  paper  is  a  very  rough  draft,  full  of  errors  in 
grammar  and  spelling.  Additions  have  been  made  to  the  text  here  and  there  in  the 
handwriting  of  John  Paston.  It  was  evidently  written  after  Sir  John  FastolPs  death, 
possibly  several  years  later. 

189 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

desiderabant  vendere  et  non  stabilire  colegium ;  quod  totaliter 
fuit  contra  intencionem  sui  dicti  Johannis  Fastolf ;  et  con- 
siderabat  quod  certum  medium  pro  licencia  Regis  et  dominorum 
non  providebatur,  et  sic  tota  fundatio  colegii  pendebat  in  dubiis ; 
et  ideo  ad  intencionem  suam  perimplendam  desideravit  dictum 
barganium  fieri  cum  Johanne  Paston,  sperans  ipsum  in  mera 
voluntate  perficiendi  dictum  'colegium  et  ibidem  manere  ne  in 
manibus  dominorum  veniat. 

Item,  plures  consiliarii  sui  dixerunt  quod  licet  fundaret 
regulos  seu  presbiteros,  aut  eicientur  per  clamia  falsa  aut  com- 
pellantur  adherere  dominis  pro  manutinencia,  qui  ibidem  ad 
costus  colegii  permanerent  et  morarent[ur]  et  colegium  de- 
struerent ;  et  hac  de  causa  consessit  eos  ditari  in  pencionibus 
certis  ad  modum  cantarias  Heylysdon,  sic  quod  dictus  Johannes 
haberet  ad  custus  proprios  conservacionem  (?)  terrarum  erga 
querentes  et  clamatores ;  et  ne  executores  diversi  propter  con- 
trarietates  et  dissimulaciones  se  favores ^ 

Item,  considerabat  quod  ubi  monechy  et  canonesi  Imonachi 
et  canonici\  haberent  terras  seu  tenementa  ad  magnam  [j/V] 
valorem,  scilicet  m'-  [looo]  vel  ij.  m'-  [2000  sc.  librarum\ 
tam  singulares  monachi  et  canoneci  tantum  per  se  resiperent 
\reciperent\  xIj.  per  annum  et  prandium,  et  quod  abbas,  officiarii 
et  extraequitatores  expenderent  residuum  in  mundanis  et  riotis  ; 
et  ideo  ordinavit  dotacionem  praedictam  in  annuetatibus. 

Et  quod  non  fuit  intencio  dicti  Johannis  Fastolf  in  con- 
vencione  prasdicta  mortificare  CCC.  marcas  terras,  quia  prima 
convencio  Johannis  Paston  est  solvere  v.  m'-  [5000]  marcas  in 
tribus  annis  et  fundare  colegium  quod  in  intencione  dicti 
Johannis  Fastolf  constaret  m'-  [1000]  libr.,  et  semper  dedit 
Johanni  Paston  mancionem  suam  in  manerio  et  tota  terra  \sic\ 
in  Northefolk  et  Southefolk  assessa  ad  v.  C.  [500]  marcas 
annuatim,  tunc  Johannes  Paston  emeret  revercionem  CC. 
marcarum  terrae  quae  valet  iiij.^  m'-  [4000]  marcas  ad  suam 
propriam  adventuram  pro  vj.  m'-  v.  C.  [6500]  marcis. 

Item,  pro  tranquillita[te]  et  pace  tempore  vitas,  ita  ut  non 
perturbetur  per  servos  hospicii,  ballivos,  firmarios  seu  attornatos 
placitorum. 

»  Sie — the  sentence  left  unfinished.  •  The  figures  *iiij.'  are  blurred. 

190 


HENRY  VI 

Item  quod  abbas  de  Sente  Bede  ^  potuit  resistere  fundationi, 
intentione  ut  tunc  (?)  remaneat  sibi  et  suis. 

Endorsed: — <  Causa  festinae  barganise  inter  Fastolf  et  Paston/ 


WILLIAM  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON 

"To  my  Maistr  Jon  Paston  in  Norfolk. 

RYTHE  will  belovyd  broder,  I  recomand  me  to  zow,  1459 
sertefyeng  zow  that  on  Fryday  last  was  in  the  morn-  nov.  12 
yng,  Wurceter  and  I  wer  come  to  London  be  viij.  of 
the  clok,  and  we  spak  with  my  Lord  Chanceler,'  and  I  fund 
hym  well  disposyd  in  all  thyng,  and  ze  schall  fynd  hym  ryth 
profytabyll  to  zow,  &c.  And  he  desyred  me  to  wrythe  zow  a 
letter  in  hys  name,  and  put  trust  in  zow  in  gaderyng  of  the 
good  togeder,  and  pray  zow  to  do  so  and  have  all  his  good 
owthe  of  every  place  of  his,  and  his  awne  place,  qwer  so  ever 
they  wer,  and  ley  it  secretly  wer  as  ze  thowth  best  at  zowr 
assynement,  and  tyll  that  he  speke  with  zow  hym  selfF,  and  he 
-^eyd  ye  schuld  have  all  lawfull  favor.  I  purpose  to  ryde  to 
him  this  day  ffor  wryttis  of  diem  clawsit  extremum^  and  I  sopose 
ze  schall  have  a  letter  sent  from  hym  selfF  to  zow. 

As  for  the  good  of  Powlis,  it  is  safe  j  now  \enougK\  ;  and 
this  day  we  have  grant  to  have  the  good  owthe  of  Barmundsey 
with  owthe  avyse  of  any  man,  sawyng  Worseter,  Plomer,  and 
I  my  selfF,  and  no  body  schall  know  of  it  but  we  thre. 

My  Lord  °  Treasorer  ^  spekyth  fayr,  but  zet  many  avyse 
me  to  put  no  trust  in  hym.  Ther  is  laboryd  many  menys  to 
intytill  the  Kyng  in  his  good.    Sothewell  '^  is  Eschetor,  and  he  is 

'  Apparently  St.  Benet's  is  intended.  * 

2  [From  Fenn,  iii.  352.1  This  letter  gives  an  account  of  the  steps  taken  by 
William  Paston  in  behalf  of  his  brother,  who  was  Sir  John  FastolPs  principal  executor, 
to  secure  the  goods  of  the  deceased  knight  immediately  after  his  death. 

'  William  of  Waynflete,  Bishop  of  Winchester. 

*  See  vol.  ii.  p.  i6.  Note  i. 

^  The  left-hand  copy  in  Fenn  reads  *  brod,'  which  seems  to  be  a  misprint. 

8  James  Butler,  Earl  of  Wiltshire  and  Ormond.     Beheaded  in  1461. — F. 

'  Richard  Southwell. 

191 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1459  rythe  good  and  well  disposyd.  My  Lord  of  Exsater  ^  cleymyth 
NOV.  12  tytill  in  myn  master  plase,  with  the  aportynancys  in  Sothewerk,' 
and  veryly  had  purposyd  to  have  entrid  ;  and  his  consayll  wer 
-^with  us,  and  spak  with  Wurseter  and  me.  And  now  afterward 
they  have  sent  us  word  that  they  wold  meve  my  Lord  to  sue 
be  menys  of  the  lawe,  &c.  I  have  spoke  with  my  Lord  of  Can- 
terbury and  Master  Jon  Stokys,  and  I  fynd  hem  rythe  will 
disposyd  bothe,  &c. 

Item,  to  morow  ar  the  nexst  day  ze  schall  have  a  noder 
letter,  for  be  that  tyme  we  schall  know  mor  than  we  do  now. 

My  Lord  Chanceler  wold  that  my  master  schuld  be  beryed 
-wurchyply,  and  C.  mark  almes  done  for  hym  ;  but  this  day  I 
schall  holly  know  his  enthent.  Master  Jon  Stokys  hathe  the 
same  consaythe  and  almes  gevyng.  Harry  Fcnyngley  is  not 
in  this  towne,  ner  the  Lord  Bechamp. 

Item,  we  have  gethe  men  of  the  speretuall  law  with  haldyn 
with  us,  qwat  casse  some  ever  hap.  We  have  Master  Robert 
Kenthe,  but  in  any  wyse  have  all  the  good  ther  to  gedyr,  and 
tary  for  no  lettyng,  thow  ze  schuld  do  it  be  day  a  lythe  [day- 
light] opynly,  for  it  is  myn  Lord  Chanceler  fFuU  in  thenthe  that 
ze  schuld  do  so. 

As  for  Wyllyam  Worceter,  he  trustythe  veryly  ze  wold  do 
for  hym  and  for  his  avaylle,  in  reson  ;  and  I  dowthe  nott  and 
he  may  veryly  and  feythefully  understand  zow  so  disposyd  to 
hym  ward,  ze  schall  fynd  hym  feythefuU  to  zow  in  leke  wysse. 
I  understand  by  hym  he  will  never  have  oder  master  butt  his 
old  master ;  and  to  myn  consaythe  it  were  pete  butt  iff  he 
schuU  stand  in  suche  casse  be  myn  master  that  he  schuld  never 
nede  servyce,  conscrying  [considering]  how  myn  master  trustyd 
hym,  and  the  long  zers  that  he  hathe  be  with  hym  in,  and  many 
schrew  jornay  for  his  sake,  &c. 

I  wrythe  zow  no  mor,  be  cawse  ze  schall  [have]  a  noder 
letter  wretyn  to  morow.  Wretyn  at  Lundon  the  xij.  day  of 
Novembr,  in  hast,  be 

WiLLYAM   PaSTON. 
*  Henry  Holland,  Duke  of  Exeter. 

192 


HENRY  VI 

392 

SIR  JOHN  FASTOLF  AND  JOHN  PASTON* 

MEMORANDUM,  that  I  Robert  Fytzrawff,  Esquyer,  1459 
recorde  that  I,  beyng  in  my  Master  Fastolff  chambre,  "o^*  ^^ 
lenyng  upon  the  gret  bedde,  at  suche  tyme  as  John 
Paston,  Esquyer,  Master  John  Brackeley,  Master  Clement 
Felmyngham,  weere  in  comonycacion  with  my  seid  master  of 
dyvers  gret  maters  towchyng  his  will,  and  serten  appoyntmentes 
a  twyx  my  seid  master  and  the  seid  John  Paston,  in  the  weke 
next  be  fFor  my  seid  master  dissesid,  I  hard  my  seid  master  and 
the  seid  John  Paston  appoynte  and  conclude  that  the  seid  John 
Paston  shulde  take  upon  hym  the  rwle  of  my  masters  howsold_ 
and  of  all  his  lyflod  in  NorfFolk  and  Suffolk  duryng  his  lyve  ; 
and  aftir  his  dissese  the  seid  John  Paston  shulde  do  ffounde  a 
colage  at  Caster  of  vij.  monkes  or  prestis,  and  pay  iiij.  m'-  mark 
of  money  be  yeres  to  my  seid  masteres  executoris,  at  eche  pay- 
ment viij*^  marke,  till  the  seid  som  wer  paid  ;  and  that  the  seid 
John  Paston  shulde  have  all  the  lyvelode  that  was  my  seid 
masters  in  Norffolk  and  Suffolk  to  hym  and  to  his  heyres  in 
fee.  And  aftir  this  seid  mater  rehersed  my  seid  master  seide 
these  wordes,  *  Cosyne,  I  pray  you  and  requere  you,  lete  this  be 
settled  in  all  hast  withowte  tarying,  for  this  is  my  very  last 
wille/  Also  be  it  knowe  to  all  men  that  I  had  knowlege 
-of  this  bargayne  dyverse  tymes  halfe-yere  past,  and  how  my 
seid  Master  Fastolff  and  the  seid  John  Paston  wer  nye  at  a 
conclucion  of  the  seid  maters  a  quarter  of  a  yere  be  fore  this 
last  bargayne  was  made. 

Wrete  at  Caster  the  xxvj.  day  of  Novembre  the  xxxviij. 
yere  of  Kyng  Herry  the  Sexte.  In  witnesse  wherof,  I  have 
syngnyd  this  bull  with  myn  own  hand  and  sette  to  my  seale. 

RoBT.  Fetzrawff. 

*  [From  a  Bodl.  MS.] 
VOL.  III. N  193 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

393 

BISHOP  WAYNFLETE'S  ADVICE  i 

BE  it  remembred  that  forasmoch  as  Sir  John  Fastolf  late 
decesed,  of  grete  afFeccion,  hath  put  me  yn  trust  to  be 
one  of  hys  executors,  and  seth  hyt  ys  desyryd  me  to 
know  my  disposicion  hereynne,  myne  advyse  is  this,  that  fyrst 
an  inventorie  be  made  holye  of  hys  godes  and  catell  yn  all 
places,  and  thayt  they  be  leyd  yn  sure  waard  by  your  discrecions, 
tille  the  executors,  or  the  moste  part  of  tho  that  he  put  hys 
grete  trust  uppon,  speke  wyth  me  and  make  declaracion  to  me 
of  hys  laste  wille,  to  the  accomplyshment  whereoff  I  wolle  be 
speciall  gode  Lord. 

Ferthymore,  as  touchyng  hys  buryeng  and  month  ys 
mynde  ^  kepyng,  that  it  be  don  worshyplye,  accordyng  to  hys 
degree  and  for  the  helth  of  hys  soule,  and  that  almesse  be 
yeven  yn  mass  seyng,  and  to  pore  peple  to  the  some  of  a 
hundred  mrcks  tille  that  othyrwyse  we  speke  to  geder  ;  and  I 
can  agree  ryzt  well  that  hys  servaunts  haf  theyr  rewardes  be 
tymes  accordyng  to  hys  wylle,  to  th'entent  that  they  may 
be  better  disposed  and  to  pray  for  the  wellfare  of  hys  soule, 
takyng  avyse  of  a  lerned  man  yn  spirituell  lawe,  for  no 
charge  of  administracion  till  the  executors  com  to  ghedr, 
or  the  moste  part  that  hys  trust  was  most  uppon,  to  tak 
the  administracion.  W.  Winton. 

394 

ABSTRACTS 

Robert  Spany  of  Possewyke  to  the  Wife  of  John  Paston,  Esquirs 

Between        Begs  her  influence  with  her  husband  and  Sir  T.  Howes,  executors  of  Sir 

J  .  ^Q      J.  Fastolf,  for  reparation  of  a  wrong  done  by  Sir  John,  who  refused  to  ratify  a 

^1        purchase  made  by   the  writer   from  his  surveyor,  Sir  John  Kyrteling,  of  a 

1466  1  [From  Fenn,  iii.  358.] 

'  A  monthly  celebration  in  memory  of  a  deceased  person,  when  prayers  were  said 
and  alms  offered  for  the  good  of  his  soul. 
^  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 
194 


HENRY  VI 

place  and  lands  in  Tunstale,  sometime  called  Wrightes  of  Snialbergh,  without  Between 
receiving  lo  marks  over  what  was  bargained.  1 45 9 

[This  letter  must  have  been  written  between  the  death  of  Fastolf  in  1459  and  that       and 
of  Fasten  in  1466.]  1 466 

395 

FRIAR  BRACKLEY  TO  JOHN  PASTON* 

Carissimo  suo  magistrOy  Johanni  Paston^  armigero. 

JesuSy  Maria,  i^c. 

RYTE  reverent  mayster  and  most  trusty  frend  in  erthe,  145  9 
as  lowly  as  I  kan  or  may,  I  recomaunde  me,  &c. 
Syr,  in  feyth  I  was  sore  aferd  that  ze  had  a  gret 
lettyng  that  ze  come  not  on  Wednysday  to  met,  &c.  Be 
myn  feythe,  and  ze  had  be  here,  ze  schuld  haf  had  ryte  good 
chere,  &c.,  and  hafe  faryd  ryte  wele  after  zour  pleser,  &c., 
with  more,  &c. 

Sir  John  Tatirshall  is  at  one  with  Heydon,  &c.,  and  Lord 
-Skalys  hathe  made  a  lofeday  ^  with  the  prior  and  Heydon  in 
alle  materys  except  the  matere  of  Snoryng,  &c.  And  the 
seyd  pry  or  spake  maysterly  to  the  jurrorys,  &c.,  and  told  hem 
and  [i.e.  if]  they  had  dred  God  and  hurt  of  here  sowlys,  they 
wold  haf  some  instruccyon  of  the  one  party  as  wele  as  of  the 
other.     But  they  were  so  bold  they  were  not  aferd,  for  they 

*  [From  Fenn,  iii.  346.]  This  letter  belongs  to  the  latter  part  of  the  year  1459. 
After  the  dispersion  of  the  Duke  of  York's  army  near  Ludlow  in  October  of  that 
year,  commissions  were  granted  to  various  persons  to  arrest  and  punish  his  adherents. 
Even  as  early  as  the  14th  of  October,  Lord  Rivers  and  others  were  commissioned  to 
seize  their  lands  and  goods  in  different  counties  (see  Patent  Roll,  38  Hen.  vi.,  p.  i,  m. 
12,  in  dorso).  But  this  letter,  we  are  inclined  to  think,  was  written  about  six  or  seven 
weeks  later,  for  it  will  be  seen  by  the  next  that  Bocking,  who  is  here  stated  to  have 
been  with  my  Lord  Chancellor  *  this  term,'  must  have  been  in  attendance  on  him 
before  the  7th  December,  and  therefore,  we  may  presume,  during  Michaelmas  term, 
which  ended  on  the  28th  November.  It  is,  however,  difRcuit  to  judge,  from  the  very 
slender  allusion  to  Sir  John  Fastolf,  whether  this  letter  was  written  before  or  after  the 
old  knight's  death.  Brackley  here  speaks  of  having  been  quite  recently  in  Somerset- 
shire, which  is  not  unlikely  to  have  been  in  the  middle  of  October,  when  the  Earls  of 
March,  Warwick,  and  Salisbury  withdrew  into  the  West.  Brackley,  as  will  be  seen, 
was  a  great  partisan  of  these  Lords,  and  may  very  well  have  accompanied  them  ;  but 
not  long  before  Fastolfs  death  he  appears  to  have  been  at  Norwich. 

'  Love  days  were  days  appointed  for  the  settlement  of  disputes  by  arbitration. 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1459    fbwnde  no  bonys  to  sey  In  her  verdyte,  as  T.  T.^  and  J.  H.* 

wold,  &c. 

A  lewde  [i.e.  illiterate]  doctor  of  Ludgate  prechid  on 
^oneday  fowrtenyte  at  Powlys,  chargyng  the  peple  that  no 
man  schuld  preyen  for  these  Lords  traytorys,^  &c.  ;  and 
he  had  lytyl  thank,  as  he  was  worthy,  &c.  And  for  hyse 
lewd  demenyng  his  brethir  arn  had  in  the  lesse  favour  at 
London,  &c.  Doctor  Pynchebek  and  Doctor  Westhawe, 
grete  prechowrys  and  parsonys  at  London,  bene  now  late 
made  monkys  of  Charterows  at  Schene,  one  at  the'  on  place 
"and  an  other  at  the  other  place,  &c. 

The  Chaunceler*  is  not  good  to  these  Lords,  &c.,  for 
he  feryth  the  Erie  of  Marche  wyl  cleyme  by  inheritans  the 

Erldam   of  Ha ^  &c.,  of  which   mater  I  herd  gret 

speche  in  Somercede  schyre,  &c.  Wyndham,  Heydon,  Todyn- 
ham,  Blake,  W.  Chambirleyn,  Wentworth,  have  late  commys- 
syonys  to  take  for  tretorys  and  send  to  the  next  gayl  all 
personys  fawtorys  and  weelwyllerys  to  the  seyd  Lords,  &c. 
Mayster  Radclyff  and  ze  haf  none  of  commyssyonys  directid  to 
zow,  &c.,  for  ze  bene  holdyn  favorabil,  &c.  Wyndham  and 
Heydon  bene  namyd  here  causerys  of  the  commyssyonys,  &c. 
On  Moneday  last  at  Crowmere  was  the  ore  and  the  bokys 
"of  regystre  of  the  amrelte  takyn  a  wey  from  my  Lord  Scalys 
men  be  a  gret  multitude  of  my  Lord  Rossys,  &c.  The  Lord 
Skalys  is  to  my  Lord  Prince,^  &c.,  to  wayte  on  hym,  &c.  He 
seyth,  per  Deum  Sanctum,  as  we  sey  here,  he  schal  be  amrel  or 
he  schal  ly  there  by,  &c.  Be  my  feyth,  here  is  a  coysy  werd 
[unsettled  worW\.  Walsham  of  Chauncery,  that  never  made 
lesyng,  told  me  that  Bokkyng  was  with  my  Lord  Chaunceler 
this  terme,  but  I  askyd  not  how  many  tymys,  &c. 

As  I  haf  wrytyn  to  zow  oftyn  byfor  this,  Facite  vobis 
amicos  de  mammona  iniquitatis^  quia  de  facto.  T.  T.,  J.  H.,  et 
J.  W.  [/.  Wyndharn]  cum  ceteris  Magistri  Fastolf  fallacibus 
famulis  magnam  gerunt  ad  vos  invidiam,  quod  excelleritis  eos 

'  Sir  Thomas  Tuddenham.  '  John  Heydon. 

'  Meaning  the  Earls  of  March,  Warwick,  and  Salisbury. 
*  William  Waynfletc,  Bishop  of  Winchester. 
'  The  original  letter  is  here  defective. — F. 
'  Edward,  Prince  of  Wales. 

196 


HENRY  VI 

in  bonis,  &c.,  Judas  non  dormit,  &c.  Noli  zelare  facientes  1459 
iniquitatem^  quoniam  tanquam  fenum  velociter  arescent  et  quemad- 
modum  olera  herbarum  cito  per  Dei  gratiam  decident.  Ideo  sic  in 
Psalmo  :  Spera  in  Domino  et  fac  bonitatem  et  pasceris  in  divitiis 
ejus  et  delectare  in  Domino,  et  dabit  tibi  petitiones  cordis  tui} 
Et  aliter :  Jacta  cogitatum  tuum  in  Domino  et  ipse  te  enutriet} 
Utinamy  inquit  Apostolus,  abscindantur  qui  vos  conturbant,^  &c. 
Et  alibi  :  Cavete  vos  a  ma/is  et  importunis  hominibus.*  Precor 
ergo  Deum  qui  vos  et  me  creavit  et  suo  pretioso  sanguine  nos 
redemit,  vos  vestros  et  vestra  gratiose  conservet  in  prosperis 
et  gratiosius  dirigat  in  agendis. 

Scriptum  Walsham,  feria  quarta^  in  nocte  cum  magna 
festinatione,  &c.  Utinam  iste  mundus  malignus  transiret  et 
concupiscentia  ejus. 

Vester  ad  vota  promptissimus, 

Prater  J.  Brackley,  " 

Minorum  minimus. 

JOHN  BOCKING  TO  YELVERTON,  PASTON, 
AND  FILONGLEY« 

To  my  right  worshipful  maistris,  William  T^lverton,  Justice^ 
John  Paston,  and  Herre  Filongley,  and  to  eche  of  them. 

RIGHT  worshepful  Sers,  I  recomaunde  me  to  yow.  °^^'  7 
And  like  it  yow  to  wete,  that  my  Lord  Chaunceller '' 
is  right  good  and  tendre  Lord  in  all  your  materes, 
and  soo  wil  contynue,  and  my  Lord  Tresorier^  in  like  wise; 
which  bothen  have  answerid  Wyndham,  not  aldermoste  to 
hise  plesir,  becaus  of  his  noiseful  langage,  seyng  [sayingl  how 
he  myght  have  noo  lawe,  and  that  my  Lord  Chaunceller  was 
not  made  executor  but  for  meigntenaunce,^  with  many  othir 

1  Psalm  xxxvi.  (or  xxxvii.)  1-4.  2  Psalm  Hv.  (or  Iv.)  22. 

'  Gal.  V.  12.  <  2  Thess.  iii.  2. 

*  *  Feria  quarta  '  means  Wednesday. 

8  [From  Fenn,  i.  178.]  This  letter  was  written  at  Coventry  during  the  Parlia- 
ment which  sat  there  in  1459,  when  the  Duke  of  York  and  his  adherents  were 
attainted.  ^  William  Waynflete,  Bishop  of  Winchester. 

8  James,  Earl  of  Wiltshire,  was  made  Treasurer  of  England  on  the  30th  October 
1458. — Patent  Roll,  37  Hen.  vi.,  p.  i,  m,  21.  •  See  vol.  ii.  p.  167,  Note  3. 

197 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1459  woordis  noo  thing  profitable  ner  furtheryng  his  entents.  As 
^^c-  7  for  ony  particuler  materes,  the  parlament  as  yet  abideth  upon 
the  grete  materes  of  atteyndre  and  forfetur ;  ^  and  soo  there 
be  many  and  diverse  particuler  billes  put  inne,  but  noon  redde, 
ner  touchyng  us,  as  nygh  as  we  can  herken ;  to  whiche  Playter 
and  I  attenden  daily,  trustyng  on  my  Lords  aboveseid,  my 
Lord  Privy  Seall,^  and  other  good  Lords,  and  many  also  of 
your  acquayntance  and  owres,  that  and  ony  thing  be,  we  shall 
-sone  have  knowlege. 

The  Chief  Justice  ^  is  right  herty,  and  seith  ful  wel  and 
kyndely  of  my  maistr,  whom  Jesu  for  his  mercy  pardonnc, 
and  have  yow  in  His  blessid  governaunce. 

Writen  at  Coventre  the  morwne  after  Seint  Nicholas.* 

And  as  to  money,  I  delyvered  unto  the  Under-tresorier  * 
a  lettre  from  Maister  Filongley,  and  I  fonde  hym  right  wele 
disposid  to  doo  that  may  please  yow  in  all  our  materes ;  and 
take  noo  money  of  hym  as  yette,  for  we  have  noo  nede  to 
spend  ony  sumes  as  yette,  ner  with  Gods  grace  shall  not  have. 
I  come  to  this  town  of  Coventre  suche  day  sevenyght  as  the 
parlement  byganne;  and  as  for  suche  things  as  I  coude  herken 
aftyr,  I  sende  to  William  Worcetre  a  grete  bille  of  tidings  to- 
shewe  yow  and  all. 

Yesterday  in  the  mornyng  come  inne  th'erle  of  Pembroke ' 
with  a  good  felechip ;  and  the  Duchesse  of  York  ^  come  yester- 
even  late,  as  the  bringer  here  of  shall  more  pleinly  declare  yow,- 
to  whom  ye  like  to  gif  credence.  The  Bushop  of  Excester^ 
and  the  Lord  Grey  Ruthyn '  have  declarid  them  ful  worship- 
fuly  to  the  Kings  grete  plesir.  Playter  and  I  writen  you  a 
-lettre  by  NorfFolk,  yoman  for  the  Kyngs  mouth. 

Your  John  Bokking. 

1  Against  the  Duke  of  York  and  his  adherents.  *  Lawrence  Booth. 

'  Sir  John  Fortcscue.  *  St.  Nicholas'  Day  is  the  6th  December. 

^  '  Undertresouer '  in  Fenn  must,  I  think,  be  a  misprint. 

*  Jasper  Tudor. — See  vol.  ii.  p.  298,  Note  i. 

^  Cecily,  daughter  of  Ralph  Nevill,  Earl  of  Westmoreland. 

*  George  Nevill,  son  of  Richard,  Earl  of  Salisbury,  brother  of  Richard,  Earl  of 
Warwick.     He  was  afterwards  Archbishop  of  York. 

'  £dmuad.  Lord  Grey  of  Ruthin,  afterwards  created  Earl  of  Kent. 


198 


HENRY  VI 

The  following  list  of  those  of  the  Duke  of  York's  party  who 
were  attainted  by  Parliament  was  found  by  Fenn  pinned 
to  the  above  letter: — 


H59 

DEC.  7 


The  Due  of  York. 
Therle  of  Marche. 
Therle  of  Rutland. 
Therle  of  Warrwyk. 
Therle  of  Salusbury. 
The  Lord  Powys. 
The  Lord  Clynton. 
The  Countesse  of  Sarr. 
Sir  Thomas  Nevyle. 
Sir  John  Nevyle. 
Sir  Thomas  Haryngton. 
Sir  Thomas  o  Parre. 
Sir  John  Conyers. 
Sir  John  Wenlok. 
Sir  William  Oldhall. 


Edward  Bourghcier,  sq. 

A  brother  of  his. 

Thomas  Vaughan. 

Thomas  Colte. 

Thomas  Clay. 

John  Denham. 

Thomas  Moryng. 

John  Oter. 

Maistr  Ric  Fisher. 

Hastyngs   and   other    that  as 

yet  we  can  not  know  the 

names,  &c. 

As  for  the  Lord  Powys,  he  come 
inne,  and  hadde  grace  as  for  his 
lyf,  but  as  for  hise  gods  the  for- 
feture  passid. 


397 

SIR  PHILIP  WENTWORTH'S  PETITION » 

MERELY  besechith  Phelip  Wentworth,  Knyght,  that 
where  the  warde  and  mariage  of  Thomas,  sone  and 
heire  of  John  Fastolf,  late  of  Cowhaugh  in  the 
[county]  of  Suffolk,  squyer,  and  of  the  lond  of  the  same  John, 
belonged  to  the  Kyng  of  rigth,  and  among  other  by  reason  of 
the  nonnage  of  the  sayd  heir,  the  maner  of  Bradwell  in  the 
said  counte  was  sesed  in  to  his  handes  by  vertu  of  an 
enquest  take  a  fore  his  Eschetour  of  the  seid  counte.  The 
whiche   offices^   John  Fastolf,  Knyght,  and  other  tented  to 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  petition  was  presented  to  the  Parliament 
which  sat  at  Coventry  in  1459,  and  received  the  Royal  assent.  It  has  already  been 
printed  in  the  Rolls  of  Pari,  v.  371. 

'  An  inquisition  taken  before  an  escheator,  by  virtue  of  his  office,  was  frequently 
called  an  office. 

199 


DEC. 


NOV. 

or 

DEC. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1459  traverse,  and  by  that  meane  had  the  sayd  maner  to  ferme, 
accordyng  to  the  statute  in  that  case  made,  and  it  was 
founden  and  jugement  yoven  for  the  Kyng  in  the  said 
traverse-by  the  labour  of  the  said  Phelipp,  which,  the  xviij. 
day  of  Novembre,  the  yer  of  the  regne  of  the  Kyng  the 
xxvj.,^  bougth  of  Marmaduke  Lampney,  than  Tresorer  of 
Englond,  the  said  ward  and  mariage  for  an  C.  marc,  as  it 
appereth  in  the  Kynges  receyte,  be  syde  all  other  costes  and 
charges  that  the  said  Phelipp  hath  don  uppon  the  same,  as 
weel  in  fyndyng  of  the  Kyngges  title  of  the  said  ward,  as  in 
the  meyntenauns  of  all  other  sewtes  dependyng  uppon  the 
same,  to  the  costes  of  the  said  Sir  Phelypp  more  than  D. 
marc.  And  the  said  John  Fastolf,  Knyght,  was  adjuged  in 
the  Kynges  eschequer  to  pay  an  C.ix/z  xiiji.  viij^.  oh.  for  the 
issuez  and  profites  which  he  had  take  of  the  londes  of  the 
same  warde.  And  where  the  Kyngges  lettres  patentes  be 
entred  in  the  remembrauns  on  the  Tresorer  parte  in  the  said 
eschequyer  in  this  fourme : 

Rex  omnibus  ad  quos,  &c.,  salutem.  Sciatis  quod  per 
manucaptionem  Thomae  West  de  London  armigeri,  et 
Willelmi  Barker  de  Norwico  gentilman,  commisimus  Johanni 
Paston  armigero  et  Thomae  Howes  clerico  custodiam  omnium 
terrarum  et  tenementorum  cum  pertinentiis  quae  fuerunt 
Johannis  Fastolf  de  Cowhaugh  in  com  Suffolk  armigeri  die 
quo  obiit  et  quae  per  mortem  ejusdem  Johannis  Fastolf  ac 
ratione  minoris  aetatis  Thomae,  filii  et  haeredis  dicti  Johannis 
Fastolf,  ad  manus  nostras  devenerunt  et  in  manibus  nostris 
ad  hue  existunt;  habendam  a  tempore  mortis  praefati  Johannis 
Fastolf  usque  ad  plenam  aetatem  dicti  hasredis,  una  cum 
maritagio  ejusdem  haeredis,  absque  disparagatione ;  et  si  de 
haerede  illo  humanitus  contingat  antequam  ad  plenam  aetatem 
suam  pervenerit,  haerede  illo  infra  aetatem  existente  non  mari- 
tato,  tunc  dicti  Johannes  Paston  et  Thomas  Howes  habeant 
custodiam  et  maritagium  hujusmodi  haeredis,  simul  cum 
custodia  omnium  terrarum  et  tenementorum  praedictorum ; 
et  sic  de  haerede  in  haeredem  quousque  aliquis  haeres  haeredum 
praedictorum  ad  plenam  aetatem  suam  pervenerit  :  Reddendo 

»   A.D.  1447. 

200 


or 

DEC. 


HENRY  VI 

nobis  prout  concordari  poterit  cum  Thesaurario  nostro  Angliae  1459 
citra  festum  Paschae  proximo  futuro,  ac  sustentando  domos  "ov. 
clausuras  et  aedificia,  necnon  supportando  alia  onera  dictis 
terris  et  tenementis  cum  pertinentiis  spectantia  sive  aliquo 
modo  incumbentia  quam  diu  custodiam  habuerint  supra- 
dictam,  ac  inveniendo  dicto  haeredi  compententem  susten- 
tationem  suam  :  Eo  quod  expressa  mentio  de  vero  valore 
annuo  praemissorum  in  praesentibus  minime  facta  existit,  aut 
aliquo  statute,  actu  sive  ordinacione  in  contrarium  edito  sive 
proviso  non  obstante.  Proviso  semper  quod  si  aliquis  alius 
plus  dare  voluerit  de  incremento  per  annum  pro  custodia  et 
maritagio  praedictis,  quod  tunc  praedicti  Johannes  Paston  et 
Thomas  Howys  tantum  pro  eisdem  solvere  teneantur  si 
custodiam  et  maritagium  habere  voluerint  supradictam.  In 
cujus  &c.  Teste  Rege  apud  Westmonasterium  vj"  die  Junij 
anno  H.  vj"  xxxij^°. 

And  after  that  an  accorde  is  entred  in  the  sayd  Eschequer 
in  thys  forme  : — In  Hillarii  record\  anno  xxxvf"  Regis  H.  vf'  ex 
parte  Remembr  Thesaurarii : 

Et  modo,  XX.  die  Februarii  hoc  termino,  praedicti  Johannes 
Paston  et  Thomas  Howys  venerunt  hie  in  propriis  personis 
suis  et  optulerunt  se  ad  concordandum  cum  Thesaurario 
Anglias  pro  custodia  omnium  terrarum  et  tenementorum,  una 
cum  maritagio  ejusdem  haeredis.  Et  super  hoc  concordatum 
est  inter  Johannem  Comitem  Wigornias,  Thesaurario  Angliae 
et  praefatos  Johannem  Paston  et  Thomam  Howys  quod  ipsi 
solvent  domino  Regi  pro  custodia  omnium  terrarum  et  tenemen- 
torum praedictorum,  videlicet  a  tempore  mortis  praefati  Johannis 
Fastolf  usque  ad  plenam  astatem  dicti  hasredis  ac  maritagium 
ejusdem  haeredis,  decem  marcas  tantum  ;  de  quibus  quidem  x. 
marcis  consideratum  est  per  Baroncs  quod  praedicti  Johannes 
Paston  et  Thomas  Howys  et  manucaptores  sui  praedicti  pro 
custodia  et  maritagio  praedictis  erga  Regem  onerentur  prae- 
textu  Regis  literarum  patentium  et  concordiae  predictorum  ac 
aliorum  praemissorum. 

So  by  the  sayd  lettres  patentez  and  the  sayd  accorde  the 
sayd  John  Paston  and  Thomas  Howys  schuld  have  the  sayd 
C.ix//.   xiijj.   viij^.   ob.   and  the  sayd  ward  and  mariage,   the 

201 


or 

DEC. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1459  whiche  is  worthe  CC//.,  for  the  sayd  x.  marc  only.     And  also, 
»*o^'      for  as  moche  as  the  sayd  Tresorer  recordeth  in  the  Kyngges 

High  Court  of  Parlement  begonne  at  Westminster  the  ix.  day 
of  Jule  the  yer  of  the  Kyngges  noble  regne  xxxiij.,  that  he 
made  never  no  suche  accord  wyth  the  sayd  John  Paston  and 
Thomas  Howys  of  the  sayd  ward,  the  whiche  mater  is  of 
record  in  the  Kyngges  chauncerye  certefyed  by  the  sayd  Erie 
of  Worceter,  as  weell  as  by  other  his  lettres  to  dyvers  persones 
directed,  sealed  with  his  signet,  wretyn  and  signet  with  hys 
owen  hand,  as  plenerly  dooth  appere:  Where  for  plese  it 
your  gret  wysdams,  the  premisses  considered,  to  pray  the 
Kyng  oure  soverayn  Lord,  that,  by  the  advys  and  assent  of 
his  Lordes  spirituelx  and  temperelx,  and  by  you  hys  comunes- 
in  the  present  parlement  assembled,  stablysshed  and  inacted 
that  the  sayd  entre  of  accord  and  jugement  theruppon  be 
anulled  and  of  non  effect.  And  the  sayd  Phelyppe  schall  pray 
to  God  for  you,  &c. 

ABSTRACT  1 
G.  Sperlyng  to  John  Paston 

1 460  Paston  was  misinformed  as  to  what  Sperlyng  said  of  his  late  master's  ^  will. 
JAN.  6     What  he  said  was  that  about  Hallowmas  was  twelvemonth  he  was  about  eight 

weeks  with  his  said  master,  who  one  day  examined  him  about  the  conveyance 
of  his  lands,  and  said  there  was  no  man  of  worship  in  Norfolk  had  so  many 
auditors  as  he,  yet  he  could  never  get  the  certainty  how  his  livelode  was  dis- 
posed ;  but  he  had  found  a  means  to  be  quiet,  *  whereof,'  he  said,  '  I  am  as 
glad  as  a  man  had  geve  me  1000  mark,'  by  granting  his  cousin  Paston  all  his 
livelode  in  Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  on  condition  he  should  amortise  sufficient  lands 
to  maintain  a  master  and  six  secular  priests  at  Castre.  Paston  was  to  take  the 
risk  of  any  counter  claim  and  trouble  hereafter,  etc. 
Norwich,  Epiphany  Day. 

[The  date  of  this  letter  must  be  1460,  as  it  is  after  Fastolfs  death,  and  speaks  of 
a  conversation  the  writer  had  with  him  about  the  management  of  his  lands  a  twelve- 
month before  Hallowmas  preceding  the  date  of  the  letter.  At  Hallowmas  1459  S"" 
John  was  dying,  and  quite  unable  to  support  any  conversation  for  want  of  breath,  so 
that  the  reference  must  be  to  Hallowmas  1458.] 


»  [From  Paston  MSS.,  B.M.]  "  Sir  John  Fastolf. 

202 


HENRY  VI 

399 

WILLIAM  BOTONER  TO  JOHN  BERNEYi 

To  the  ryght  worshypfuU  Sir^  John  Bemeye,  Scuier, 
at  Castre  beyng. 

RYGHT  wohypfuU  Sir,  I  recommaund  me  to  yow.^  1460 
,  As  for  tydyngs  here,  I  sende  jan. 
som  of  hend  wreten  to  you  and  othyrs  how  the  Lord 
Ryvers,^  Sir  Antonye,  hys  son,  and  othyrs  hafe  wonne  Calix  * 
be  a  feble  assault  made  at  Sandwich  by  Denham,^  Squyer,  with 
the  nombre  of  viij*^-  men,  on  Twyesday  betwene  iiij.  and  v.  at 
cloks  Y^  the  mornyng.  But  my  Lady  Duchesse^  ys  stille 
ayen  receved  yn  Kent.  The  Duke  of  York  ys  at  Debylyn 
\_Dublin\  strengthed  with  hys  Erles  and  homagers,  as  ye  shall 
jee  by  a  bille.  God  sende  the  Kyng  victorie  of  hys  ennemyes, 
and  rest  and  pease  among  hys  Lordes. 

I  am  rygt  gretly  hevyed  for  my  pore  wyfe,  for  the  sorow 
she  takyth,  and  most  leefe  hyr  and  hyr  contree.  Y  shall 
nothing  take  from  hyr  more  then  a  litell  spcndyng  money, 
tille  better  may  bee.  And  the  Blessed  Trinite  kepe  and 
sende  you  helth. 

Wret  at  London  hastly,  the  Monday  after  I  departed  from 
you,  1459,  ^'  Your, 

W.  BoTONER,  called  Wyrcester. 

*  [From  Fenn,  i.  182.]  The  date  of  this  letter  is  ascertained  partly  by  the 
reference  in  the  suppressed  passage  to  Sir  John  Fastolf's  interment,  and  partly  by  the 
allusion  to  the  capture  of  Rivers  and  his  son  by  John  Denham.  Compare  the  letter 
following. 

*  '  Here,'  says  Fenn,  *  follow  complaints  against  Frere  Brakle,  etc.,  concerning  Sir 
John  Fastoirs  interment,  affairs,  etc' 

'  Richard  Widville,  Lord  Rivers,  afterwards  created  an  Earl  by  King  Edward  iv., 
who  married  his  daughter  Elizabeth. 

*  This  must  be  a  sneer.  The  truth,  as  recorded  by  Botoner  himself  in  his  annals, 
was  that  John  Denham  and  others  secretly  sailed  from  Calais,  and  surprised  Sandwich, 
where  they  took  Lord  Rivers  and  his  son  Anthony  prisoners,  and  carried  them  back 
to  Calais. 

*  John  Denham  or  Dynham,  afterwards  Lord  Dynham. 
"  Cecily,  Duchess  of  York. 

203 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

400 

WILLIAM  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON' 

I'd  his  right  worshipfull  brother,  John  Pastotty 
be  this  lettre  delyvered. 

1460        A     FTER    dewe  recomendacion   had,  please   you   to  wete 

JAN.  28      LX        ^\^2Lt  we   cam    to   London   uppon   the   Tewysday   by 

none,  nexst  aftr  our  departour  fro  Norwich,  and  sent 

our  men  to  inquyre  after  my  Lord  Chaunceler,^  and  Maister 

John  Stokys,  and  Malmesbury. 

And  as  for  my  Lord  Chaunceler,  he  was  departed  fro 
London,  and  was  redyn  to  the  Kyng  ij.  dayes  er  we  were 
come  to  London;  and  as  we  understand  he  hasted  hym  to 
the  Kyng  by  cause  of  my  Lord  Ryvers*  takyng  at  Sand- 
wyche,  &c.* 

As  for  tydyngs,  my  Lord  Ryvers  was  brougth  to  Caleys, 
and  by  for  the  Lords  with  viij'"'-  [eight  score']  torches,  and 
there  my  Lord  of  Salesbury  reheted  [rated]  hym,  callyng 
hym  knaves  son,  that  he  schuld  be  so  rude  to  calle  hym 
and  these  other  Lords  traytors,  for  they  schall  be  found  the 
Kyngs  treue  liege  men,  whan  he  schuld  be  found  a  traytour, 
&c.  And  my  Lord  of  Warrewyk  rehetyd  hym,  and  seyd 
that  his  fader  was  but  a  squyer,  and  broute  up  with  Kyng 
Herry  the  V',  and  sethen  hymself  made  by  maryage,  and  also 
made  Lord,  and  that  it  was  not  his  parte  to  have  swyche 
langage  of  Lords,  beyng  of  the  Kyngs  blood.  And  my  Lord 
of  Marche  reheted  hym  in  lyke  wyse.  And  Sir  Antony  ^  was 
reheted  for  his  langage  of  all  iij.  Lords  in  lyke  wyse. 

'  [From  Fcnn,  i.  186.]  This  letter,  like  the  last,  refers  to  the  capture  of  Lord 
Rivers  and  his  son  at  Sandwich,  an  incident  dated  by  William  Worcester  in  his 
annals  shortly  after  the  Christmas  of  1459,  which  probably  means  just  after  the  New 
Year. 

2  William  de  Waynflete,  Bishop  of  Winchester. 

'  See  p,  203,  Note  3. 

*  'Then  follows,'  says  Fenn,  'a  long  account  of -private  business,  which  is  here 
omitted.' 

'  Sir  Anthony  Widville,  afterwards  Lord  Scales  and  Earl  Rivers. 
204 


HENRY  VI 

Item,  the  Kyng  cometh  to  London  ward,  and,  as  it  is  seyd,     1460 
rereth  the  pepyll  as  he  come  ;  but  it  is  certayn  ther  be  comys-  M^.  28 
syons  made  in  to  dyvers  schyres  that  every  man  be  redy  in  his 
best  aray  to  com  whan  the  Kyng  send  for  hem. 

Item,  my  Lord  Roos  is  com  fro  Gynes. 

No  more,   but  we  pray  to   Jesu  have  you  in  his  most 
mercyfull  kepyng.     Amen. 

Wretyn  at  London,  the  Munday  next  after  Seynt  Powle 
day.^  Yowr  broder,  ^^ 

William  Paston. 


401 
WILLIAM  BOTONER  TO 


AVERY  frende  at  nede  experience  will  schewe  be  deede,  1460 
as  wele  as  be  autorite  of  Aristotle  in  the  Etiques  that  ^^^'  7 
he  made  of  moralite.  Also  by  the  famous  Reamayn 
Tullius  in  his  litell  booke  De  Amicicia  ;  thangyng  you  for  olde 
contynued  frendschip  stidffastely  grounded,  as  I  wele  [(ju. 
feel  ?]  be  your  letter  of  a  goode  disposicion  made,  as  it  appereth. 
Where  as  it  schewith  to  the  understandyng  of  suche  as  you 
write  uppon  that  I  schulde,  be  crafty  councell  of  some  men 
sodenly  have  departed  in  to  these  parties,  &c.,  and  that  I 
straunched  me  from  sertein  persones  to  moche,  &c.  ;  as  for 
the  furste,  it  schalbe  to  openly  knowe  that  I  departed  not 
hedre  be  councell  of  suche  persons  as  they  ymagyne,  for  in 
trowthe  no  creature  levyng,  when  I  departed  from  Norwich, 
knewe  of  it,  safFe  one  that  hath  and  evermore  schal  be  next  of 
my  knowlege  in  viagis  makyng,  alle  be  it  I  will  not  alwey 
disclose  the  cause.  I  herde  sey  sith  I  come  to  London  theye 
weche    ye   dempte   to   be  of  my  councell   thanne  where  at 

1  The  Feast  of  the  Conversion  of  St.  Paul  is  on  the  25th  of  January. 

2  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  The  ms.  of  this  letter  is  not  an  original,  but  a  copy 
in  the  handwriting  of  John  Paston.  It  appears  to  be  written  on  the  cover  of  a  letter 
from  his  wife,  addressed  on  the  back,  'To  my  ryght  wurschipfull  husbond,  John 
Paston,  be  this  delyvered  in  haste.'  The  date  must  be  1460,  as  it  is  clearly  not  long 
after  the  death  of  Sir  John  Fastolf }  and  as  the  writer  speaks  of  having  recently  left 
Norwich,  it  was  probably  not  many  days  or  weeks  after  No.  399. 

205 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1460    Wolsyngham  or  Thepala  (?)  when  I  departed.     I  have  wrete 
FEB.  7     the  cauce  to  hym  that  of  nature  schulde  be  my  beste  frende, 
that  for  as  much  I  had  labored  as  weele  as  W.  Paston  do  my 
maister  frendes,  chevised,  and  leyd  money  content  out  of  his 
purse  to   the  some  of  C//'.,  and  more  for  cloothe  and  other 
thynges  for  my  seide  maister  entencion,  promyttyng  payment 
be  fore  Cristemesse,  or  right  soone  aftir,  or  to  be  at  London, 
and  acquytyng  me  that  I  put  me  my  dever.     And  be  cause 
my  maister  attorneys  in  that  parties  toke  not  to  herte  to  make 
the  payementes  here  so  hastely  as  they  ded  there,  I  had  no 
comfFortable   answere  of  spedyng  the  seid   paymentes  here. 
And  also  I  was  not  put  in  truste  a  mong  the  seid  attorneys 
there  to  yeve  on  peny  for  my  maister  sowle,  but  I  paid  it  of 
myn  owne  purse  befoore ;  nother  in  trust  ne  favour  to  geve 
an  almesse  gowne,  but  that  I  praid  for  it  as  a  straunger  schulde 
doo,  alle  be  it  myn  autorite  is  as  grete  as  theris,  and  rather 
more  as  I  tolde  you.     And  also  my  Lorde  of  Canturebury  and 
Maister  John  Stookes,  his  juge,  had  geve  autorite  to  ministre 
to  a  certein  somme  till  the  testament  were  proved.     And  these 
-  preseidents  consedred  wolde  discorage  any  man  to  a  bide  but 
a  litel  amonges  hem  that  so  straunged  hem  self  from  me  and 
mistrusted  me,  be  thut  any  cauce  ye  knowe  wele  how  that 
my  maister  man  servauntes  were  put  in   gretter  truste  and 
familiarite  to  handell,  geve,  and  telle  out  of  the  bagghes  my 
maister  money  bothe  at  Seint  Benetts  and  in  Norwich  in  divers 
places  by  grete  summes  and  litell.      And  ye   as  other  my 
maister  servauntes  and  I  that  helped  gete  my  maister  goode 
and  brynge  it  togedre  were  straunged,  and   as  it  semyd  by 
there  demenyng  mistrusted  to  cure  grete  vilanye  and  rebuke, 
wheche  muste  be  answerd  the  causes  why,  and  we  declared 
[i.e.  exculpated]^  and  so  shal  I  make  it  for  my  pore  person, 
and  for  my  maister  sowle  heele.     It  is  not  soilied  (?)  knowen 
that  I  was  one  of  the  cheefFe  that  kepte  bothe  my  Maister 
Paston  and  myn  oncle  ^  in  my  maister  favour  and  truste,  and 
if  I  wolde  have  labored  the  contrary,  by  my  sowle — that  is  the 
grettest  othe  that  I  may  swere  of  my  siliF — they  had  never  be 

^  Botoner''s  wife,  whose  Christian  name  was  Margaret,  was  a  niece  of  Thomas 
Howes,  parson  of  Blofield.     He  therefore  calls  Howes  his  uncle. 

206 


HENRY  VI 

nygh  my  maister  in  that  case  they  stonde  no  we.     And  if  they    1460 
woll  labour  to  damage  or  hendre   me,  all   the  worlde  woll    ^^^'  7 
mysreporte  of  hem  and  litel  truste  hem,  nowther  they  schal 
not  have  wurschip  nor  profight  bi  it.     I  wolde  be  to  them 
as  lowyng  and  as  wele  willyng  as  I  gan,  so  I  fynde  cause,  and 

-other  I  wolnot  be  to  my  fadre,  and  he  weere  a  liffe.  I  requere 
you  a[n]swere  for  me  as  I  wolde  and  have  do  for  you  whan 
som  of  hem  have  seid  ful  nakedly  of  you,  and  suche  as  ye 
deeme  hafe  mysereported  causeles  of  me,  I  pray  you  that  they 

^see  my  letter  as  weele  as  my  frendes.  My  maister  also  (God 
yelded  is  sowle)  graunted  to  me  a  liffelode  accordyng  to  my 

ndegre,  that  I,  my  wifFe,  and  my  childre,  schulde  have  cause  to 
prey  for  hym.  My  wiffes  uncle  ^  was  present  in  his  chapell  at 
Castre  as  wele  as  my  wiiFe,  and  comaunded  her  oncle  to  chese 
the  londe.  This  is  trowthe  be  the  blissed  Sacrament  that  I 
receyved  at  Pasch  [i.e.  Easter].  And  because  I  demaunded 
my  right  and  dwte  of  my  Maister  Paston,  he  is  not  plesed. 
I  have  lost  more  thanne  x.  mark  worthe  londe  in  my  maister 
servyce,  by  God,  and  not  [unless]  I  be  releved,  alle  the  worlde 
schal  knowe  it  elles  that  I  have  to  gret  wrong.  Wolde  God 
I  kowde  plese  bothe  Maister  Paston  and  my  oncle  in  reson, 
who  preserve  you. 

Wrete  hastely  the  vij.  day  of  Feveryere. 

Your, 
W.  BoTONER,  dit  Wurcester. 

1  See  Note  on  last  page. 


207 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

402 

W.  LOMNER  TO  JOHN  PASTON* 

To  the  right  worchipfull  and  reverent  and  myn  good 
mayster  Paston^  Squyere^  be  this  taken. 

1460  "^  IWY  ryght  worchipfull  mayster,  I  recomaunde  me  to  yow, 
APRIL  6  ^1  besechyng  yow  to  hold  me  excusyd  that  I  awaytyd 
noon  otherwyse  opon  yow  and  my  mastras  at  my 
comyng  from  Norwich  ;  for  yn  good  feyth  I  was  soo  seke 
that  I  hadde  moche  labour  to  come  home,  and  sythen  that 
tyme  I  have  hadde  my  parte,  &c.  And,  Sere,  as  for  Berney, 
he  begynnyth  to  falle  ought  of  the  popell  conceyte  faster  than 
ever  he  fell  yn,  for  serteyn  causez,  &c.  I  shalle  telle  yow  yn 
haste.  But,  Sere,  blyssyd  be  God,  as  for  yow,  your  love 
yncresith  amonge  hem,  and  so  I  prey  God  it  mot,  for  and  I 
herde  the  contrarie,  ye  shuld  sone  have  wetyng.  The  under- 
shrefe  dotht  Mortoft  favour,  and  letc  hym  goo  yn  Norwich  as 
hym  lyst,  and  al  the  contre  abought  me  sey  right  evyll  of  hym 
for  a  mayntenor  of  the  Kynges  enime  ;  for  there  ben  an  C. 
\hundred^^  purposid  to  ride  to  the  Kyng  for  hym,  and  he  come 
neer  this  contre,  for  they  sey  thow  he  hadde  never  doo  with 
his  handes  he  hath  seid  a  now  to  die.  I  have  warend  the 
under-shreffe  ther  of,  &c.  Sere,  forther,  I  am  yn  bildyng  of 
a  pore  hous.  I  truste  God  that  ye  shulle  take  your  loggyng 
ther  yn  here  after  whan  ye  come  to  your  lordshippis  on  tho 
partes.  And  I  durste  be  soo  bolde  on  your  maystershep  to 
aske  of  yow  xij.  copill  of  oken  sparris,  I  wold  hertilly  prey 
yow  not  to  have  them,  but  ther  they  may  be  for  bore  beste, 
and  that  is  at  a  yard  of  yourz  yn  Saxthorpe,  callid  Barkerz. 
I  have  eshe  but  noon  oke,  but  litell  now  corny th  the  felly ng 
ther  of,  &c.  And  me  semyth  ye  myght  take  mony  for  wood 
ther  that  stant  and  seryth  and  doth  no  good  but  harme,  and 

*  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  The  date  of  this  letter  must  be  after  the  death  of 
Sir  John  Fastolf,  and  before  John  Paston  had  gone  to  take  possession  of  his  lands  in 
Norfolk.  Saxthorpe  was  one  of  Fastolf's  manors  which  so  came  to  him.  The  year 
may  therefore  be  presumed  to  be  14.60. 

208 


HENRY  VI 

with  yn  fewe  yeres  ye  shulnot  wete  where  it  is  become,  &c.     1460 
Also  ther  be  serteyn  materz  betwyn  soom  of  your  tenuantez    april  6 
and  me.     I   abide  your  corny ng  and   doo  not  [naught ?~\  at 
the  reverens  of  yow  ;  they  be  knowelle  yn  the  contre.     And 
God  have  yow  yn  his  kepyng. 
Wretyn  on  Palme  Sunday. 

Be  your  servaunt, 

W,    LOMNER. 


403 

FRIAR  BRACKLEY  TO  [WILLIAM  PASTON]  1 

TESU    mercy,    Marie   help,    cum   Sanctis   omnibus,   trewe    1460 
I      menyng  executorys  ffro  fals  terrauntes  and  alle  tribu-  [before 
J      lacyonys.      Amen.      Ryte   reverent  Sire,  &c.,  W.   Y.^  Easter] 
Judex  and  hise  wyf  were  here  with  here  meny  and  here  hors 
in  our  ladyes  place,  &c.  on  Saterday  at  evyn,  and  yedyn  hens 
on  Monday  after  none,  whan  summe  had  drunkyn  malvyseye 
and  tyre,^  &c.     And  I  prechid  on  the  Sonday  byfore  hem,  not 
warnyd  tyl  after  mete.     And  than  for  lak  of  M.  Vergeant,  or 
our  wardeyn  Barnard,   I   sodeynly  seyd  the  sermon.      And 
byfore  I  had  ryte  ovyr  and  soleyn  chere  of  hem  bothe,  &c. ; 
but  after  the  sermon  he  seyd  opely  to  the  prior,  heryng  myche 
folk  in  the  chirch,  '  I  haf  herd  hym  oftyn  here  and  ellys  where, 
but  [this]^  is  the  best  that  ever  I  herd  hym  sey,'  &c.,  and 
at  evyn  drank  to  me,  and  made  me  good  chere,  half  on  the 
splene,  &c. 

But  on  Moneday,  whan  he  had  ny  etyn  and  drunkyn  a 
now,  he  gan  to  rollyn  hym  in  hise  relatyvis,  and  we  eldyd 
hym,  as  many  men  thowtyn,  ryte  ongayly  in  hise  gere,  &c. ; 
hise  wyf  begynnyng  the  communicacyori  with  rite  a  sooty r  (?) 
chere.     And  he  heeld  on  so  sore  he  cowd  not  cese,  &c.  tyl 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  From  what  is  said  of  the  expectation  of  a  descent 
of  Warwick  upon  the  coast,  it  appears  that  this  letter  was  written  in  the  spring 
of  1460. 

'  William  Yelverton. 

'  Tier ;  a  bitter  drink  or  liquor. — Halliwell. 

*  Omission  in  ms. 

VOL.  III. O  209 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1460  he  went  to  his  hors,  &c.  And  the  pryor  demenyd  hym 
[before  gentylly  in  hise  talkyng.  And  there  was  not  forgetyn  non 
Easter]  unkyndnesse  of  my  Mayster  J.  P.,  zour  brother,  of  sleyn 
[^s/aying]  of  hise  man  Wormegey,  and  of  mariage  of  hise 
dowghtyr,  whiche  now  schal  solempnely  be  maryed  to  Conerys,^ 
a  knytes  sone,  &c.  And  now  last  at  Seynt  Benettes,  where 
he  so  worschipful  a  justise  and  as  kunnyng  in  lawe  as  ever 
was  zour  fadyr,  &c.  as  alle  men  knowyn,  &c.  And  zour 
brother  J.  P.  brokyn  owt  be  occasyon  of  zour  langage,  and 
takyn  wytnesse  of  Malmysbury,  a  man  of  Iny  Lord  of 
Caunterbury,  whiche  hath  spokyn  with  the  seyd  justise  the 
last  terme  in  Westmyster  Halle.  And  there  he  seyd  more 
tymes  than  one,  '  Sire,  this  the  fyrst  tyme  that  ever  I  spake 
with  zour  Lordschip,  &c.'  And  sythe  after  ze  weryn  at 
Seynt  Benettys  forseyd,  ze  komyn  not  gentylly  but  ryte 
malicyously  disposid  to  myn  Lady  Felbrygg,  and  dede  your 
devoyr  to  haf  put  hym  out  of  hir  conceyt,  and  it  wolde  not 
be,  &c.  And  what  vyolens  my  Mayster  J.  P.,  germanus 
vester,  dede  to  W.  Wayt,^  &c.  up  on  hise  owne  grownd  at 
Musshold,  &c.  And  after  al  these  materys,  bare  me  on  hand  * 
that  I  had  seyd  to  on  of  the  worthiest  of  the  schyre  that  the 
seyd  justise  be  gan  the  brekyng  at  Seynt  Benettes  ;  for  I 
suppose  I  seyd  thus  to  my  Lord  Fyz  Water,  a/ias  my  Mayster 
RadclyfF,  to  whos  in  I  went  to,  and  zaf  hym  a  potel  of  swete 
wyne,  he  demaundyng  me  of  that  brekyng,  &c.,  as  I  remembre 
me,  and  suppose  I  seyd,  '  W.  Y.,  justise,  began  to  myn  know- 
lache  and  understondyng.'  Whan  he  seyd  so  fumowsly,  *  Who 
so  ever  sey  that  of  me,  he  lyeth  falsly  in  hise  hede,  &c.'  And 
my  Mayster  RadclyfF  rode  forthe  with  owt  of  towne  to 
Dokkyng  and  Brumham,  and  with  hym  rode  W.  Y.,  sone  to 
the  justise.  And  yf  the  seyd  RadclyfF  teld  this  to  W.  Y., 
I  wote  never.  And  yf  he  dede  I  merveyle  sore.  But  and 
al  go  to  al,  as  is  like  to  go,  I  may  not  sey  nay,  but  I  trow  I 
seyd  so.  Radclyf  and  ze  bene  grete  frendes.  I  wold  ze 
wold  lat  hym  knowe  the  trowth,  &c. 

•  John,  son  of  Sir  Robert  Conyers,  knight,  married  Eleanor,  daughter  of  William 
Yelverton,  Justice  of  the  King's  Bench. — Blomcfield,  i.  483. 

*  Judge  Yclverton's  clerk,  the  writer  of  No.  142.     See  vol.  ii.  p.  174,  Note  3. 
'  See  vol.  ii,  p.  no,  Note  1. 

210 


HENRY  VI 

This  mater  mevyd  the  justisis  wyf,  and  than  he  be  gan     1460 
hise  mater  more  boldly,  seying  to  me  be  fore  the  pryour  and  [before 
miche  pepyl,  that  it  was  told  hym  the  same  day  that  I  seyd,  Easter] 
as  for  the  brekyng,  the  justise  began.      *  Forsothe,'  seyd  1, 
'  whan  I  came  into  the  chambre  there,  the  fyrst  word  I  hard 
was  this,  that  ze  seyd  to  my  mayster  J.  P.,  "  Who  that  ever 
seyth  so,  I  sey  he  lyeth  falsly  in  hise  hede,"  &c.'     '  Ya,'  quod 
the  justise,  *  ze  schuld  haf  told  what  mevyd  me  to  sey  so  to 
hym.'     And  I  seyd  I  cowde  not  tellyn  that  I  not  herd,  &c. 
Et  Judex — '  Ze  schuld  haf  examyned  the  mater,'  &c.     And  I 
seyd,  *  Sire,  it  longyd  not  to  me  to  examyne  the  mater,  for  I 
knew  wele  I  schuld  not  be  juge  in  the  mater,  and  alonly  to  a 
juge  it   longyth  to  sene  and  stodyen  illam  Sacrae  Scripturae 
clausulam,    whiche   holy   Job    seyd,    Causam   quatn   nesciebam 
diligentissime  investigabam.^ 

And  than,  '  No,'  seyth  he  hardyly,  *ze  schal  not  be  juge, 
but  yi  ze  had  owt  me  as  good  wil  as  ze  dede  and  do  to  Paston, 
ze  wold  than  have  sergyd  the  cause  of  my  gret  grcef,  why  I 
seyd  as  I  seyd,  &c.  But  I  haf  sey  the  day,  ze  lovyd  me  beter 
than  hym,  for  he  yaf  zow  never  cause  of  love  as  I  haf  done,' 
&c.  '  Sire,'  I  sey,  '  he  hath  yovyn  me  cause  swyche  as  I  am 
behold  to  hym  for,'  &c.  '  Ya,'  seyth  he,  '  ze  schal  bere  wyt- 
nesse,  &c.,  and  the  other  Mayster  Clement  and  W.  Schipdham.* 
Cui  ego — *  As  for  the  wytnesse  I  schal  bere,  1  schal  say  and 
writyn  as  I  knowe,'  &-c.  Cui  ille — '  I  made  hise  testament,* 
and  I  knowe,'  &c.  Cui  ego — *  I  saw  nevir  testament  of  your 
makyng  ;  and  as  for  on  testament  that  he  made,  and  I  knowe 
bothe  the  writer  and  maker,  after  hise  wyl  and  intent,  ze  stonde 
stille  there  in  as  ze  dede  than,'  &c.  Et  tunc  gavisus  est,  &c. 
Et  Ule — '  I  knowe  ze  haf  a  gret  hert,  Sfc,  but  I  ensure  zow,  the 
Lordes  above  at  London  arn  infoormyd  of  zow,  and  they  schal 
delyn  with  zow  wele  anow.'  Cui  ego — *  He  or  they  that  hafe 
infoormyd  the  Lordes  wele  of  me,  I  am  behold  to  hem  ;  and 
yf  they  be  otherwyse  infoormyd,  I  schal  do  as  wele  as  I  may. 
But  be  myn  trowthe  I  schal  not  be  aferd  to  sey  as  I  knowe  for 
none  Lord  of  this  lond,  if  I  may  go  saf  and  come,  quod  non 
credo,  per  Deum,  propter  evidencias  multas,'  &c.     Tunc  prior 

*  This  seems  to  refer  to  the  will  of  Sir  John  Fastolf,  though  he  is  not  named. 

211 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1460  — *  Domine,  non  expedit  nee  ration!  seu  verse  conscientiae  con- 
[before  gruit,  quod  vos  contendatis  cum  Magistro  Fasten,  vel  ipse 
Easter]  vobiscum,  pro  bonis  defuncti,  quae  solum  sua  et  non  vestra 
sunt.  Miror  valde,*  inquit,  '  cum  prioribus  temporibus  tam 
magni  fuistis  amici,  et  non  sic  modo,  quare  valde  doleo.'  Cui 
Judex — *  There  is  no  man  besy  to  bryng  us  to  gyder,  &c.,  so 
that  I  kan  wele  thynk  it  were  lytil  maysteri.'  But  in  feyth  I 
knowe  wele  the  Juge,  W.  Wayte  his  mawment  [i.e.  puppet], 
hise  boy  Yimmys,  with  here  hevedy  and  fumows  langage,  have 
and  dayly  do  uttyr  lewd  and  schrewd  dalyauns,  &c. 

I  sent  zow  bode  of  dyvers  thinges  be  M.  Roger  Palle,  and 
I  haf  no  answer,  &c.  I  schuld  go  to  Castre,  and  a  man  of  my 
Lordes  Norfolk  told  here  he  came  fro  London,  and  there  he 
had  commonly  voysid  that  the  Duke  of  Norfolk  schuld  be  the 
Kynges  comaundement  kepe  hise  Esterne  at  Castre  for  safe 
gard  of  the  cuntre  ayens  Warwyk  and  other  swich  of  the  Kinges 
enmyes  whiche  may  lytely  be  lyklynesse  aryve  at  Waxham,  &c. 
My  mayster  zour  brother,  J.  P.,  ne  ye,  ne  M.  T.  Howys,  ne  I 
may  not  esily  be  brokyd  in  the  Jugys  conscyens,  &c.  Sir  Jon 
Tatirshales  man  spake  with  yow  at  London,  and  than  ye  seyd 
to  hym  to  hafe  comyn  in  your  owne  persone  to  our  Lady 
or  this  tyme,  whiche  was  cause  of  myn  abidyng  here,  &c.  I 
schal,  be  the  grace  of  Jesu,  be  at  Castre  on  Soneday  next,  &c. 
W.  W.,  J.  B.,  junior,  Colinus  Gallicus,  et  T.  Upton  multum, 
ut  suppono,  fuerunt  assidui  ad  informationem  malam  dandam 
dominis  diversis  hujus  regni  contra  vestrum  germanum  J.  P., 
M.  T.  Howes,  me,  etc. ;  sed  confido  in  vobis  quod  vos  con- 
fiditis  in  Christo  Jesu  et  Sanctis  omnibus,  qui  vos  vestros  et 
vestra  dirigat  in  agendis.  Recommendetis  me,  si  placeat, 
Magistro  meo  Johanni  P.,  uxori,  et  matri,  cum  filiis  suis 
nepotibus  vestris,  et  Thomae  Playtere  vestro  dilecto  amico. 
Et  quare  vobis  jam  scribo  et  non  vestro  germano  J.  P.  alias 
scietis,  etc. 

Vester  orator  continuus, 

F.  J.  B.,  Minorum  minimus. 


212 


HENRY  VI 

404 

FRIAR  BRACKLEY  TO  JOHN  PASTONi 

JHESUS  Maria,  &c., — Reverende  domine  et  prae  omnibus  1460 
mortalibus  amantissime.  Super  omnia  omnino  oblivioni 
non  tradenda  faciatis  ut  W.  P.*  germanus  cum  sua  ac 
vestra  prudenti  industria  sagaciter  et  secrete  informet  H. 
Fylongley  de  W.  W.^  Hibernico  ac  Colino  Gallico,  qui  suo 
malicioso  proposito  confederati  sunt,  adversusque  dominum  et 
magistrum  suum  militem  defunctum  et  executores  ejus  ad 
dampnificandos  eos  et  bona  defuncti  per  ostensionem  litcrarum 
secretarum  olim  dicto  militi  missarum,  ex  confidentia  speciali, 
sicut  solito  more  amicus  amico  solet  scribere.  Si  base  enim 
proditoria  condicio  esset  insinuata  per  H.  Fylongley  vel  per 
me,  forsan  Domino  Comite  Wilschirie,  idem  fallax  et  decep- 
torius  Colinus  Gallicus  non  esset  cum  dicto  comite  tam  magnus 
et  intimus  cum  dicto  domino,  sicut  credit  se  esse  unum  de 
suis  secretioribus,  vel  cum  Regina  per  laborem  sui  germani  ad 
magistrum  Ormond  ut  ipsum  faciat  introduci  ad  favorem  et 
servicium  Reginae.  Si  habueritis  amicos  circa  Reginam,  cito 
poteritis  Colinum  frustrare  suo  a  proposito.  Si  W.  P.  vester 
germanus  posset  per  subtilia  media  adquirere  et  adquiri  facere 
-casketum  C.  Gallici  ac  casketum  W.  W.  Hibernici,  audiretis  et 
videretis  aliqua  non  laude  sed  fraude  plena,  &c.  Mitte  sapien- 
tem  et  nihil  ei  dicas,  &c.  Prudenti  viro  pauca  scribenda  pro 
presenti  propono  quia  scio  vos  ex  paucis  plura  coUigere  et  ex 
praeambulo  plura  concludere.  Item,  propheta  clamat,  *  Nolite 
confidere  in  verbum  mendacii,'*  &c.,  et  secundum  eundem 
prophetam,  '  Non  est  confidendum  super  baculum  arundineum 
confractum,'  ^  &c.,  et  est  commune  et  vulgare  dictum  :    *  A 

'  [Add.  MS.  34,888,  f.  i6i.]  This  letter  is  evidently  holograph.  The  date  might 
be  at  the  very  end  of  the  year  1459,  ^^^^  ^^^  death  of  Fastolr  and  after  the  attainder 
of  the  Yorkists  at  Coventry;  but  is  more  probably  in  the  early  part  of  1460,  between 
Januar)'  and  May.  Indeed,  though  the  language  is  mysterious,  its  substance  is  pro- 
bably not  unconnected  with  that  of  the  preceding  letter. 

'  William  Paston,  son  of  the  judge. 

'  The  initials  'W.  W.'  suggest  the  name  of  William  Worcester ;  but  he  was  not  an 
Irishman,  and  before  this  letter  was  discovered. he  was  believed  to  be  Brackley^s  'Colinus 
Gallicus,'  who,  however,  is  here  mentioned  as  a  different  person.         *  Jerem.  vii.  4. 

*  Referring  apparently  to  Isaiah  xxxvi.  6 — not  *  the  same  prophet.' 

213 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1460  man  schuld  not  trusty  on  a  broke  swerd,  ne  on  a  fool,  ne  on  a 
chyld,  ne  on  a  dobyl  man,  ne  on  a  drunke  man,'  &c.,  thowthat 
he  were  an  amewse  and  a  notarye  be  W.  W.  Hibernicus  he 
schal  knowe  al,  and  be  hym  Colyn  and  Spirlyng  the  same 
knowe  schal,  &c.  Hoc  ideo  dicite  W.  P.,  Cavete,  &c.,  quia, 
Deo  teste,  bona  fide  et  conscia  non  ficta,  hasc  suprascripta  sunt 
in  toto  vera,  &c.  Feria  secunda  ad  minus  in  prandio  vos 
videbo,  &c.  Scriptum  festinissime  infra  quarterium  horas, 
praesentis  latore  nimis  sponsalium  causa  festinante.  Recom- 
mend© vos  vestros  et  vestra  Deo, 

vester  totus  prius  notus, 
Frater  J.  B.  Minorum  minimus. 


405 

ANONYMOUS  TO  H.  B.  OF  LINCOLN  1 

,  To  my  good  Maister^  H.  B.  of  Lincoln. 

APRIL  9  I  *%  IGHT  worchepful  sir,  after  my  recommendation,  like 
rx  you  to  wete  I  wold  yisterday  have  spoken  with  you  if 
ye  had  be  allone  at  good  leiser,  for  my  aquytaile  to 
God  and  to  you,  and  for  the  wele  of  my  maister,  God  pardon 
hym.  I  have  many  thynges  to  remembre  you  if  ye  wol. 
Wherof  diverse  special tes  that  I  wold  sey,  I  may  not  write. 
For  I  meved  you  at  your  chamber  wyndow  at  Lammes  hom- 
ward  from  London  some  thynges  of  my  good  wil,  and  me 
thought  ye  toke  it  gretely  to  displeisur ;  the  which  caused  me 
to  sey  the  lesse  of  thynges  that  had  be  worchepful!  to  have  be 
doon.  But,  Sir,  as  I  remembred  you  late  at  Norwich  of  the 
variaunce  by  twix  the  worchepfuU  man  and  you,  for  Goddes 
love  and  your  most  ease,  folwe  the  meanes  of  his  good  wil  by 
help  of  holsom  gentilmen,  and  also  the  feithfuU  love  of  other 
that  grucchen  to  you  warde,  as  I  fele  moche  thof  thei  spcke  litil 

•  [Add.  MS.  34,888,  f.  143.]  This  letter  is  mysterious,  but  seems  to  have  some 
bearing  on  Sir  John  Fastoirs  will,  and  may  be  assigned  with  tolerable  certainty  to 
the  year  1460,  as  the  9th  April,  the  day  it  was  dated,  was  a  Wednesday,  and  one 
expression  in  it  shows  that  it  was  written  immediately  before  Easter,  which  in  that 
year  fell  on  the  1 3th  April. 

214 


HENRY  VI 

therof  to  you,  rettyng  in  you  singuler  fastnesse  ageyns  kynde-  1460 
nesse  and  reson  ;  for  with  love  and  unyte  ye  shal  do  moost  ^^^^^  9 
good  for  oure  maister  to  your  worchep.  And  with  the  con- 
trary many  mysse  dispenses  as  han  be  and  thanne  moche  lette 
in  doyng  of  good  dedis  to  the  causers  perill  and  slawnder  God 
hath  sent  you  wysdham  grete  that  telleth  you  the  best  is  to 
drede  God.  A  man  shal  never  have  love  of  God  nor  love  nor 
drede  of  good  men  for  myskepyng  of  moche  good  thof  it  wcr 
his  owen,  for  it  is  dampnable  ;  but  wher  it  is  truly  delt  with 
and  godly  disposed,  thanne  folwith  bothe  grete  meryte  and 
worchep.  Pety  it  is  that  mo  more  is  do  for  hym.  At  the  gate 
is  nowther  mete,  drynke  nor  money,  «/  dicitury  no  man  wele 
spekyng  thof  thacte  above  be  not  do  necessary  almesse  to  the 
nedy  that  peynen  wold  and  myght  be  do  dayly.  And,  Sir,  be 
ware  what  ye  talke  to  som  men  of  the  lordes  your  coexecutours,"" 
and  what  is  spent  for  the  man,  and  what  he  was  worth.  Thei 
reporten  you  unfavorabely  and  withoute  credence,  as  men  seyn, 
and  some  I  have  herd.  Also  your  entretyng  and  other  for  you 
with  them  that  have  entres  with  you  for  to  have  your  entent 
sped,  is  tolde  oute  whow,  and  your  iournay  to  lorde  Beauchamp 
to  Cambrig  is  taken  as  men  like,  and  your  associacion  is  seid 
made  by  your  witt  to  your  purpos.  As  somme  fer  of  and 
grete  that  may  nor  peraventur  wiln  not  medle,  somme  ye  wold 
thei  left,  somme  havyng  no  conduyt,  somme  no  stomak,  and 
somme  glosours  and  witnesses  for  lucre  ;  this  is  not  my  seyyng, 
I  have  often  herd  it.  Therfor  to  have  such  a  post  as  the  seid 
man  is  that  ye  be  in  variaunce  ;  so  he  do  wele,  as  I  fully  beleve, 
he  shuld  help  you  to  here  moche,  and  cause  eschuyng  of  moche 
of  this  noyse.  This  variaunce  grew  of  mater  of  noght  and 
japes  ;  the  soner  may  be  accorde.  And  thynke  not.  Sir,  that 
any  persone  hath  stered  me  herto  ;  for  by  the  good  Lorde  I 
trist  to  receyve  this  holy  tyme  it  is  my  owen  steryng  and  good 
hert  to  you  warde,  for  that  I  her  and  see,  and  moost  of  your 
wele  willers,  in  eschuyng  of  inconvenyentz  as  right  many  talke 
must  ensue  to  you  ward.  For  I  fonde  you  pleyn  at  Criste- 
messe,  and  I  toke  you  that  ye  loved  me,  wher  to  fore,  withoute 
-cause  truly,  to  my  seid  maister  moch  ye  hyndred  me,  as  parte 
he   tolde   me,   and  thanne  I  praied   you  in   that   your  good 

215 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1460  maistership  and  amendement,  and  sith  I  have  be  pleyn  and  wol 
APRIL  9  be.  And  I  require  you  as  ye  arn  a  gentilman,  kepe  thees 
maters  secrete  by  twix  God,  you  and  me  ;  for  by  Almyghty 
Jhesu  of  me  knoweth  this  non  erthely  creatur,  nor  shal  knowe. 
Other  thynges  been  that  sounden  not  wele,  but  as  I  fele  your 
wisdham  take  me  in  this,  so  herafter  I  wil  demene  me  with  you 
in  maters.  I  am  urke  of  variaunces,  for  parties  waxen  wrooth 
if  men  hold  not  with  there  oppynyons  whan  thei  in  angre  trotte 
over  fer  by  yon  hem  self.  I  may  not  come  by  you  to  London 
ward,  I  trow  I  must  by  Suffolk  ;  elles  I  had  not  writen  this. 
Oure  Blissed  Lorde  have  you  in  His  governaunce  and  be  your 
conduytour  to  His  pleisur,  Amen.  This  Wednesday,  ix.  day 
Aprill. 

As  ye  arn  a  veray  gentilman,  be  my  true  confessour  as  I  am 
youres  and  take  me  as  I  mene,  thof  my  termes  been  not  dis- 
creet. Brenne  this  scrowe  or  kepe  it  pryvy,  as  ye  like  and  I 
beseche  you,  if  ye  wil  trist  me,  wil  me  pleyn,  &c. — Your  owen, 
&€.,  to  my  power. 


406 
WILLIAM   PASTON  TO  JOHN   PASTON  1 

^0  hys  rythe  wurchyp\_fulF]  broder^  Jon  Paston^ 
[dweU']yng  at  Castre. 

MAY  2  1  ^  RODER,  I  comand  me  to  zow,  certhefieng  zow  that 
r^  Playter  is  redyn  to  Lundon  ward  this  day  abowthe  ij. 
"*"^  afternone.  And  he  taryed  here,  and  schulde  abedyn 
styll  till  he  had  had  an  horse  that  Master  Thomas  Howys 
schuld  have  lent  hym.  And  so  I  thowthe  he  schuld  have  taried 
to  long  ;  and  so  he  hathe  bowthe  on  off  myn  hors.  And  iff  it 
nede,  he  schall  send  zow  word  be  his  man  fro  Lundon  how  he 
felythe  the  disposycyon  off  men  ther,  &c. ;  and  he  schall  send 

*  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  The  date  of  this  letter  is  certainly  in  the  year  1460, 
for  it  was  written  after  the  death  of  Sir  John  Fastolf,  and  before  the  deposition  of 
Henry  vi.,  Margaret  of  Anjou  being  still  spoken  of  as  'the  Queen.' 

216 


HENRY  VI 

his  man  horn  be  Newmarket  wey.     And  I  have  infurmyd  hym     1460 
acording  after  the  ententhe  of  zowr  letter.  may  2 

I  spak  this  day  with  Bokkyng.  He  had  but  few  wurdes, 
but  I  felt  be  hym  he  was  rythe  evyll  disposyd  to  the  parson  and 
zow,  but  coverthe  langgage  he  had.  I  wene  he  be  assentid  to 
the  fyndyng  of  this  offyce  ^  takyn  at  Bokynham,  and  Recheman 
schall  bryng  zow  the  namys  of  the  men  that  mad  the  verdythe 
on  Soneday  nexst  comyng.  I  pray  send  to  myn  broder 
Clements  fermor  of  Somerton  for  money  for  my  broder 
Clement,  for  to  have  sent  to  hym  to  Lundon.  I  schuld  have 
done  it  qwan  I  was  at  Caster  ;  myn  moder  desyryd  me,  and  I 
sent  a  letter  after  to  the  parson,  and  prayed  hym  to  receve  it, 
&c. 

Item,  I  prayd  the  parson  to  wrythe  a  letter  in  his  name  to 
myn  suster  Ponyngges,^  as  ze  and  I  comunyd  onys  togeder, 
cownsellyng  her  to  take  good  avyse  befor  sche  sold  her  wood 
at  Wrenham  ;  and  he  schuld  knowe  ther  by  weder  Ponyngges 
wer  in  Kent  ar  nat,  &c.  I  understond  that  this  Bokkyng  and 
-Worceter  have  grett  trust  in  ther  awne  lewd  consaythe,  wathe 
some  ever  it  menythe,  &c.  Bokkyng  told  me  this  day  that  he 
stood  as  well  in  consaythe  with  myn  Maister  FastolfF  iii.  days 
befor  he  dyed  as  any  man  in  Englond.  I  sayd  I  soposyd  nay, 
ner  iij.  zere  before  he  dyed.  I  told  hym  that  I  had  hard 
dyveres  talkynges  of  hym  as  men  sayd,  qweche  I  soposyd 
schuld  nat  easly  be  browthe  a  bowthe,  and  he  swore  that  he 
talkyd  never  with  no  man  in  no  mater  that  schuld  be  a  zen 
zow,  &c.  It  is  he  that  makythe  William  Wurceter  so  froward 
as  he  is. 

I  wold  ze  had  a  witnesse  of  Roberd  Ingglows,  thow  he 
wittnessyd  no  more  but  that  myn  master  had  his  witthe, 
becawse  he  was  so  lathe  with  myn  master  Fastolff.  Worceter 
_^sayd  at  Castre  it  schuld  be  nessessary  for  zow  to  have  good 
witnesse,  as  he  saythe  it  schuld  go  streythe  with  zow  wytheowt 
zowr  witnesse  were  rythe  sofycyent.  Myn  cosyn  Berney  can- 
tcll  zow,  &c. 

Item,  remenbre  to  make  the  parson  to  make  an  instrument 

^  See  p.  199,  Note  2. 

2  Elizabeth  Paston,  now  wife  of  Robert  Poynings. 

217 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1460    up  on  his  sayyng.     I  funde.  hym  rythe  good  qwan  I  spak  with 
MAY  2    hym  at  Caster  ;  and  remembre  the  newe  evydens. 

Item,  Arblaster  and  I  spakk  togeder.  I  felle  hym  rythe 
feythefully  disposyd  to  zow  ward,  and  he  schall  mow  do  myche 
good  and  he  go  to  Lundon,  for  he  can  labore  will  a  monge 
Lordes.  He  and  I  comunyd  to  geder  of  myn  Lord  Awbre  ;  ^ 
lethe  hym  tell  zow  qwat  it  was,  for  he  will  speke  with  zow  to 
morow.  It  is  full  nessessary  to  mak  zow  strong  be  lord  chep,- 
and  be  oder  menys.  Myn  Lord  Awbry  hathe  weddit  the 
Duke  of  Bokyngham  dowter,^  and  he  was  lathe  with  Master 
F?.stolfF  be  fore  he  dyed,  and  he  is  gret  with  the  Qwene. 

God  have  zow  in  His  kepeng.     Wretyn  at  Norwyche  the 
secund  day  of  May. 

Be  zowr  broder,  W.  Paston. 

Omnya  pro  pecunya  facta  sunt. 


407 
THE  ABBOT  OF  LANGLEY  TO  JOHN  STORES' 

To  the  ryght  worchepfull  Sere^  Mayster  John  Stokes. 

MAY  8  TTJ  YGHT  worshypfull  Sere,  I  recomaund  me  to  yow  ;  and 
r^  for  asmyche  as  it  is  informyd  me  that  it  was  appoynted 
that  alle  the  executors  of  the  worshepfuU  knyght,  Sere 
John  Fastolf,  whos  soule  God  asoyle,  shuld  be  at  London  as 
on  Monday  next  comyng,  of  wheche  executors  I  am  namyd 
for  on,  as  I  ondyrstond  ;  wherfore,  in  as  myche  as  ye  be 
ordenary  and  on  of  the  same  executors,  I  prey  yow  tendre  my 
laboure,  withoute  my  comyng,  be  youre  dyscrecion,  myght  be 
more  profyt  to  the  dede  ;  for  I  conseyve  it  shuld  be  but 
charge  to  the  dede,  and  lytell  avayleable,  consyderyng  that 
John  Paston,  Squyere,  and  Thomas  Howys,  parson  of  Blofeeld, 
schall  come  up  at  this  time,  wheche  were  *  the  persones  above 

'  Aubrey  de  Verc,  son  of  the  Earl  of  Oxford,  who  suffered  death,  with  his  father, 
in  February  1462. 

'  Anne,  eldest  daughter  of  Humphry,  Duke  of  Buckingham. 
3  [From  Fenn,  iii.  398.] 

*  This  word  is  omitted  in  the  literal  transcript  in  Fenn. 
218 


HENRY  VI 

all  Other  that  the  seyd  Sere  John  Fastolf  put  in  hys  most  1460 
sengulere  love  and  trust,  and  wold  they  shuld  have  the  kepyng  "ay  8 
and  dysposicion  of  hys  goods,  as  wele  in  hys  lyve  as  after  hys 
deseas,  to  dyspose  for  the  well  of  hys  soule  ;  and  that  non 
other  namyd  hys  executors,  but  only  they  tweyn,  shuld  have 
ony  kepyng  or  dysposyng  of  ony  part  of  hese  goods  duryng 
ther  lyves  ;  and  that  alle  other  namyd  executors  shuld  supporte 
them  and  gevc  them  to  the  seyd  John  Paston  and  Thomas 
Howys  here  good  avyse  in  performyng  of  hys  desyre  in  that 
behalvc.  Wherfor  that  it  lekyth  yow  in  ony  thyng  ye  desyre 
me  to  do  in  thys  cause  or  matere  to  geve  yowre  feyth  and 
credence  to  the  seyd  John  Paston  and  Thomas  Howys ;  and 
so  desyred  me  the  seyd  Knyght  feythefuUy  to  do,  that 
knowyth  God,  whom  I  be  seke  preserve  yow  from  alle 
adversyte. 

Wretyn  in  the  Abbey  of  Langeley,  the  viij.  day  of  the 
monyth  of  May,  the  yeere  of  oure  Lord  m'cccc.lx. 

Youre  preest.  Abbot  of  Langeley.^ 

408 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  2 

To  my  trusty  cosyrty  Margaret  Paston^  at  Norwich^ 
be  this  delyvered? 

IRECOMAUNDE  me  to  you,  letyng  you  witte  that  I  june  19 
sent  a  letter  to  John  Russe  and  Richard  Kalle  that  thei, 
by  th'advyse  of  Watkyn  Shipdam  and  William  Barker 
shuld  send  me  word  of  whom  alle  the  maneres,  londes,  and 
tenementes  that  were  Sir  John  FastolfFes  wern  holde,  preyng 
you  that  ye  wold  do  them  spede  them  in  that  matier ;  and  if 
my  feodaryes,  whiche  lye  in  the  tye  of  my  gret  cofyr,  may 
ought  wisse  therin,  lete  them  se  it. 

'  His  name  was  Nicholas. 

*  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  appears  to  have  been  written  the  year 
after  Fastolfs  death. 

5  Below  this  address  is  written,  in  another  hand,  •  To  Richard  Calle,  at  Caster,  be 
this  deliverid  in  hast.' 

219 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1460  Item,  I  wolde  that  William  Barker  shulde  send  me  a  copye 

JUNE  19  of  the  olde  traverse  of  Tychewell  and  Beyton.  And  lete 
Richard  Kalle  spede  hym  hidderward,  and  come  by  Snaylwel, 
and  take  suyche  mony  as  may  be  getyn  there,  and  that  he 
suffre  not  the  mony  that  the  tenauntes  owe  to  come  in  the 
fermours  handes. 

Item,  that  he  come  by  Cambrigge  and  bryng  with  hym 
Maister  Brakkeles  licence  from  the  provynciall  of  the  Grey 
Freres.     I  prey  you  recomaunde  me  to  my  modir. 

Wretyn  at  London  the  Thursday  next  to  fore  Midde- 
somer.  John  Paston. 


409 
FRIAR  BRACKLEY  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

Venerahtli  armigero^  Johanni  Paston  seniori,  detur  hac  litera. 


H 


JULY  ^  ^  ^  ONORIS  superni  amorisque  interni  indissolubile  vin- 
culum tam  venerabili  viro  in  Christo  condignum, 
praecordialissime  magister  ac  amice  singularis,  non 
solum  quales  debeo  sed  quales  valeo  vobis  refero  grates 
cordiales  pro  vestris  beneficiis  quampluribus  michi  multi- 
formiter  exhibitis,  pro  quibus  omnibus  recompenset  vos 
Altissimus.  Honorabilis  domine,  causa  motiva  prassentis 
scripturas  est  haec.  Ex  magno  cordis  afFectu  audire  desidero 
de  vestra  expeditione  prospera  in  materia  concernente  testa- 
mentum  et  voluntatem  venerabilis  viri  J.  F.^  militis  per 
Ricardum  Callc  vel  Johannem  Pampyng,  vestros  fideles  ser- 
vientes  ;  qood  si  fieri  non  possit  per  relationem  latoris  prae- 
sentium,  michi  certificare  dignemini.  Cujus  verbis  audienciam 
credulam  praebere  curetis,  sicut  et  michi  dare  velletis  si  vobis- 
cum  personaliter  interessem.  Scire  insuper  dignetur  vestra 
caritas  quod  iste  frater,  praesentium  lator,  est  meus  spiritualis 

1  [Add  MS.  34,888,  f.  147.]  This  is  a  letter  of  Friar  Brackley,  apparently  written 
the  year  after  FastolPs  death.  It  is  in  a  large  and  regular  handwriting,  different  from 
some  of  his  other  letters. 

*  Sir  John  Fastolf. 

220 


HENRY  VI 

filius,  eo  quod  in  ordinem  per  me  indutus  et  professus  et  ad  1460 
gradum  sacerdotii  promotus,  jam  per  biennum  continuum,  July  6 
fuit  socius  et  servitor  meus  satis  solaciosus  in  tempore  meae 
gravissimae  infirmitatis,  in  laboribus  et  vigiliis  continuis,  tam 
diurnis  quam  nocturnis,  quorum  occasione  a  suo  libro  et  studio 
fuit  multiformiter  impeditus  ;  sicque  ad  suos  amicos  non  potuit 
habere  recursum  ad  sui  victus  et  vestitus  adquirendum  sub- 
sidium.  Cui  si  placet  intuitu  caritatis  elemosinam  per  vos 
graciose  collatam  Willelmo  nepoti  meo  ingratissimo,  utinam 
non  infidelissimo,  latori  praedicto  dare  curetis,  qui  vobis  suam 
indigenciam  fideliter  explanabit  et  dicti  nepotis  viciosa  demerita 
certissime  declarabit.  Unum  enim  scitote,  si  frater  praedictus 
circa  meam  personam  non  fuisset  multiformiter  solicitus  ego 
pluries  fuissem  mortuus.  Spero  enim  per  Dei  graciam  circa 
festum  ad  Vincula  Petri  vestram  graciosam  visitare  presenciam, 
et  de  dicti  fratris  gratitudinem  clariorem  dare  noticiam.  Cui 
propter  Deum  ad  mei  cordis  multiforme  solacium  dicti  beneficii 
ne  denegetis  sufFragium,  sicud  in  vobis  gero  confidcnciam 
singularem.  Non  plura  pro  prassenti  vobis  ofFero  calamo 
digna,  sed  vos,  vestros  et  vestra  defendat  Trinitas  alma,  Quas 
vos  graciose  conservet  in  prosperis  et  graciosissimis  dirigat  in 
agendis.  Scriptum  Donewici,  in  vigilia  Translacionis  Sancti 
Thomas  Martiris. 

Vester  ad  vota  promptissimus  ac  orator  pauperculus. 

Frater  J.  B.,  Minorum  minimus. 


410 

THE  YORKIST  LORDS  TO  THE  AUTHORITIES 
IN  NORFOLK! 

'The  Erlys  of  Marche^  JVarwyke^  and  Salysbury. 

RYGHT  welbeloved,  we  grete  you  wele  ;  and  wher,  for  july  23 
the  tendre  love  that  we  have  to  the  concervacion  of 
the  Kyngs  peas,  lawes,  and  justice  in  this  his  realme 
of  Englonde,   we  have  comaunded  the  Kyngs  peeple  in  his 

1  [From  Fenn,  Hi.  244.]    This  manifesto  must  have  been  issued  in  July  1460, 
after  the  battle  of  Northampton,  when  the  King  was  in  the  hands  of  the  confederate 

221 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1460  name,  be  oure  letters  andjdlverse  writyngs,  that  no  man  shulde 
JULY  23  robbe  or  dispoile  Sir  Thomas  Todenham,  Knyght,  John 
Heyden,  John  Wyndham,  Herry  Todenham,  and  John 
Andrws,  and  other  weche  have  sued  to  us  for  oure  seide 
letters  ;  we,  wolyng  to  eschewe  that  any  person  shulde  have 
colour  be  oure  seide  letters  to  noyse  us,  or  any  of  us,  that 
the  seide  Sir  Thomas,  John  Heyden,  John  Wyndham,  Herry, 
and  John  Andrws,  or  any  other  of  suspecte  fame,  be  accorded 
with  us,  or  any  of  us,  for  suche  wrongs  as  they,  or  any  of 
ham,  have  do  to  us,  our  servaunts  and  tenants  or  wellwellers, 
or  that  we  shulde  hafe  hem  in  tendrenesse  or  favour  to  dis- 
corage  trewe  people  to  swe  a  yen  hem  be  the  lawe  ;  We 
therfore  notyfie  to  yow,  as  we  woU  that  it  be  notyfid  to  all 
people,  that  we,  ne  noon  of  us,  intende  not  to  favour  or  tendre 
hem,  or  any  other  of  suspecte  fame,  but  rather  to  corecte 
suche  be  the  lawe,  for  we  made  our  seid  letters  soly  for  kepyng 
of  the  pease  and  justice,  and  not  for  favour  of  suspecte  con- 
dicione.  And  the  Holy  Trynyte  kepe  yow. 
Wreten  at  London  the  xxiij''-  day  of  Jule. 

To  all  Meyers,  Sceryves,  Balyfys,  Constables,  and  all 

the  Kynges  Offecers  and  Ministres  in  NorfFolk,  and 

cche  on  of  hem. 


411 

ABSTRACT  1 

The  King  to  John  Nedham  and  Thomas  Litilton,  Justices 
OF  THE  County  Palatine  of  Lancaster 

1460^.^)        Desires  them  to  show  favour  to  the  defendants  in  an  appeal  of  robbery  sued 

JULY  26   before  them  out  of  malice  by  Thomas  Bury  against  John  Berney  of  Redham, 

Norf.,  Junior,  Esq.,  John  Paston  of  Norwich,  Esq.,  John  Berney  of  Redham, 

Norf.,  Senior,  Esq.,  John  Hevenyngham,  of  Norwich,  Esq.,  and  Christopher 

Lords.     It  certainly  was  not,  as  Fenn  supposes,  in  1455,  after  the  battle  of  St.  Albans, 
when  the  Earl  of  March  was  only  thirteen  years  old  and  the  Duke  of  York,  his  father, 
was  made  Protector.     York  had  not  come  over  from  Ireland  in  July  1+60,  and  is 
consequently  not  named  in  this  document. 
1  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.] 

222 


HENRY  VI 

Norwich  of  Brundehale.     They  are  to  receive  no  writ  returned  in  the  name  of  i46o(?) 
the  Sheriff  of  Norfolk  touching  that  matter  except  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  july  26 
himself,  or  of  John  Bernarde  his  under-sheriff. 
London,  26  July. 

II.  Another  letter,  similar  in  substance,  in  which  no  justices'  names  are 
given. 

[These  documents  cannot  be  later  than  1460,  as  the  younger  John  Bemey  died 
in  July  of  that  year  (see  next  letter).  But  as  Judge  Littleton  was  only  made  a 
King's  Serjeant  in  14.55,  they  cannot  be  many  years  earlier,  and  they  are  not  unlikely 
to  be  of  the  year  1460  itself.] 


JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  P ASTON  1 

To  my  wurschipfull  coysyn^  Margaret  Pastofty 
be  this  delyvered  in  haste. 

1RECOMAUNDE  me  unto  you,  letyng  you  witte  that  1460 
your  unkyll,  John  Berney,  is  deed,  whoos  soule  God  july  28 
have  mercy ;  desyryng  you  to  sende  for  Thomas  Holler,^ 
and  enquere  of  hym  wher  his  goode  is,  and  what  he  is  wurthe, 
and  that  he  take  goode  eede  to  all  suche  goods  as  he  had  bothe 
meveable  and  on  mevable  ;  for  I  undre  stande  that  he  is 
wurthe  in  money  v*^*  [500]  marke,  and  in  plate  to  the  valwe 
of  other  v*^  marke,  beside  other  goods.  Wherfor  I  wolde  ye 
schulde  not  lete  hym  wete  of  his  dissese  unto  the  tyme  that  ye 

^  [From  Fenn,  iv.  36.]  According  to  Fenn,  Margaret  Paston's  uncle,  John 
Bemey,  second  son  of  John  Bemey,  Esq.  of  Reedham,  died  in  July  1461,  and  he 
accordingly  places  this  letter  in  that  year.  It  is  evident,  however,  that  John  Bemey 
was  dead  at  the  date  of  Nos.  431  and  462,  the  former  written  in  January  1561,  the 
latter  certainly  not  so  late  as  the  28th  July  in  the  same  year,  for  Thomas  Denys  was 
murdered  at  the  very  beginning  of  the  month.  Indeed,  it  is  clear  that  in  No.  462 
Margaret  Paston  wishes  to  arrange  about  the  approaching  anniversary  of  her  uncle's 
death.  John  Bemey  must  therefore  have  died  in  July  1460,  although  from  the 
troubled  character  of  the  times  his  will  (which  is  preserved  in  the  Principal  Registry 
at  Somerset  House),  made  on  the  2nd  June  1460  (Monday  after  the  Feast  of  St. 
Petronilla  the  Virgin),  was  not  proved  till  the  ist  December  1461. 

'  When  Bemey's  will  was  proved  at  Lambeth,  ist  December  146 1,  administration 
was  granted  provisionally  to  Thomas  Hooler,  who  was  to  send  in  accounts  before  the 
morrow  of  the  Conversion  of  St.  Paul  (Jan.  26)  following.  Power  was,  however, 
reserved  of  committing  administration  to  John  Paston.  But  John  Paston  did  not 
appear  on  the  day,  and  left  the  undivided  administration  to  Hooler. 

223 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1460    had  enquered  of  the  seide  Thomas  Holler  of  all  suche  maters 

JULY  28  as  be  a  bovyn  wreten,  and  whan  he  hathe  enformed  you  therof, 

than  lete  hym  wete  verely  that  he  is  deede,  desiryng  hym  that 

no  man  come  on  to  his  place  at  Redham  but  hym  selfe,  unto 

the  tyme  that  I  come. 

Item,  I  lete  you  witte  that  gret  parte  of  his  goode  is  at 
William  Taverners,  as  I  undrestande.  Thomas  Holler  woU 
telle  you  justely  the  trouthe  as  I  suppose,  and  deseyre  hym  on 
my  behalfe  that  he  doo  soo,  and  ther  is  writyng  therof ;  and 
telle  Thomas  Holler  that  I  and  he  be  executours  named,  and 
therfore  lete  hym  take  heede  that  the  goods  be  kept  safFe,  and 
that  nobody  knowe  wher  it  shall  lie  but  ye  and  Thomas  Holler. 
And  Thomas  Holler,  as  your  unkyll  tolde  me,  is  prevy  wher 
all  his  goode  lithe  and  all  his  writyng,  and  so  I  wol  that  ye  be 
prevy  to  the  same  for  casualte  of  deethe,  and  ye  too  shal  be 
his  executours  for  me  as  longe  as  ye  doo  trewly,  as  I  trowe 
verely  ye  woU. 

Wreten  at  London,  the  xxviij'-  day  of  Jule. 

I  requer  yow  be  of  god  cumfort  and  be  not  hevy,  if  ye 
wil  do  owth  for  me. 

Yowr,  John  Pastok. 


ABSTRACT! 

AUG.  I  *  Soutwerk  cum  membris,'  No.   50  a. — *  Inquisitio  post  mortem  Johannis 

Fastolf  militis  capta  per  eschaetorem  Regis,  ubi  mentio  fit  quorundam  tenemen- 
torum,  viz.,  the  Berehouse,  Boreshead,  Hartshorne,  et  2  molendinonim 
aquaticorum.     Aug.  i,  Hen.  vi.  38.* 


*  [From  MS.  Index  in  Magd.  Coll.,  Oxford.] 


224 


HENRY  VI 

414 

ANONYMOUS  TO  YELVERTON  AND  PASTON  1 

To  the  right  worshipful  Seres ^  my  right  welbeloved  and  trusted 
cosynSy  William  YelvertoHy  Justice ^  and  John  Paston. 

SIR,  please  your  right  worshipfull  maystership  that  i46o(?) 
Mayster  Paston  come  to  London  as  on  Thursdaye 
att  none  last  past,  and  I  trust  verelye  all  maters  here 
were  resonablye  labored  to  his  comyng,  and  now  they  shal  be 
better.  Neverthelesse,  I  have  ben  mevid  of  tretye  by  dyvers 
personez  sith  I  came  hidre,  as  wele  for  Tudenham,  Wentworth, 
Heydon,  and  other  at  this  tyme  not  wel  willed  to  yow  and 
yourez,  seyng  that  such  money  as  is  spent  a  twix  yowe  is  but 
wastfully  expendid  and  to  non  use  vertuouse.  I  fele  by  theym 
they  be  not  right  corageous  in  theyr  werkes,  ner  nought  wold 
if  they  myght  have  a  resonable  trete.  I  meve  not  this  that  ze 
shold  thenk  that  they  had  conquered  me  by  noyans,  but  I  do 
it  to  avertyse  yow  for  th'eschewyng  of  the  importable  costes 
that  hath  ben  born  by  yow,  and  yet  lyke  to  bee,  aswele  in  the 
elde  maters  hangyng  as  in  newe  at  this  tyme  to  be  grownded, 
if  this  werre  shal  rest  and  hold  a  tv/yx  yowe,  and  specially  for 
the  ease  of  hym  that  shalbe  solicitour  in  the  same.  Ye  nede 
at  this  terme  rather  to  have  had  thre  solicitours  than  in  any 
other  terme  past  this  iij.  yere,  on  concyderyng  the  maters 
hangyng,  &c. ;  of  which  please  yow  to  send  yowr  gode  advyse 
and  wille  yf  ye  thenk  it  to  be  don,  and  els  not,  for  this  is  but 
a  mocion,  &c. 

*  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  is  by  an  unknown  writer,  and  very 
uncertain  as  to  date.  It  shows  that  Tuddenham,  Wentworth,  and  Heydon,  all 
adherents  of  the  House  of  Lancaster,  were  desirous  of  a  compromise  with  Yelverton 
and  Paston.  The  year  1460,  some  time  after  the  battle  of  Northampton,  is  perhaps 
as  likely  a  period  as  any. 


VOL.  III. P  225 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

'415 

FRIAR  BRACKLEY  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  my  Mayster  Jon  PastonCy  Esqwyer^  he  this  letter 
presentid. 
Jesus y  Maria  y  &'c. 

1 460  I  ^  YTE  reverent  Sire,  after  du  recommendacion,  we  sey  in 
ccT.  r^  this  cuntre  that  Heydon  is  for  Barkschir  in  the  Comon 
,  ^  Hows.  And  the  Lady  of  Suffolk  ^  hath  sent  up  hyr 
sone  ^  and  hise  wyf  to  my  Lord  of  York  to  aske  grace  for  a 
schireve  the  next  yer,  Stapilton,  Boleyn,  or  Tyrel,  qui  absit. 
God  send  zow  Ponyng,  W.  P.,  W.  Rokewode,  or  Arblaster. 
Ze  haf  myche  to  done  ;  Jesu  spede  zow.  Ze  haf  many  good 
preyers,  what  of  the  covent,  cyte,  and  cuntre.  God  safe  our 
good  Lords,  Warwik,  alle  hise  brether,  SaHsbury,  &c.,  fro  al 
fals  covetyse  and  favour  of  extorcyon,  as  they  wil  fle  uttyr 
schame  and  confusyon.  God  save  hem,  and  preserve  fro 
treson  and  poyson  ;  lete  hem  be  war  her  of  for  the  pite  of 
God  ;  for  yf  owt  come  to  my  Lord  Warwik  but  good,  far 
weel  ze,  far  weel  I,  and  al  our  frends  !  for  be  the  weye  of  my 
sowie,  this  lond  wer  uttirly  on  done,  as  God  forbede.  Her 
[their']  enmyes  bostyn  with  good  to  come  to  her  favour ;  but 
God  defende  hem,  and  zeve  hem  grace  to  knowe  her  frends 
fro  her  enmyes,  and  to  cherisch  and  preferr  her  frends  and 
lesse  the  myte  of  alle  her  enmyes  thorw  owt  the  schiris  of  the 
lond.  And  [i.e.  if]  my  good  Lord  Warwik,  with  my  Lord 
his  brother  Chaunceler*  and  my  Lord  her  fadyr^  woldyn 
opposyn,  as  dede  Danyel,  Fortesku,  Alisaunder,  Hody, 
Doctor  Aleyn,  Heydon,  and  Thorp,  of  the  writyng  made  be 
hem  at  Covyntre  Parlement,  they  schuld  answer  wers  than  sub 

1  [From  Fenn,  iii.  382.]  This  letter  appears  to  have  been  written  just  before  the 
sitting  of  the  Parliament  of  October  1460,  of  which  John  Paston  was  a  member. 
Warwick's  brother  was  then  Chancellor.  No  signature  is  attached  to  this  letter  in 
Fenn's  literal  copy,  although  the  name  is  appended  to  the  modem  transcript. 

'  Alice,  widow  of  William,  Duke  of  Suffolk. 

'  John  de  la  Pole,  second  Duke  of  Suffolk.  He  married  Elizabeth,  the  Duke  of 
York's  daughter. 

*  Geors:e  Nevill,  Bishop  of  Exeter.  ^  Richard  Nevill,  Earl  of  Salisbury. 

226 


HENRY  VI 

cino  or  sub  privo  (?),  and  this  generaly  wold  I  sey  at  Powlys  1460 
Cros,  etc.,  and  [/.^.  if]  I  schuld  come  there,  &c.  It  is  verifyed  oct. 
of  hem,  i"  Jcremiae,  8°,  J^ere  mendacium  operatus  est  stilus 
mendax  scribarum^  &c.  And  think  of  two  vers  of  zour 
Sawter,  Scribantur  hac  in  genera tione  altera  (hujus  scilicet 
parliamenti)  et  populus  qui  creabitur  laudabit  T>ominum^  &c. 
Deleantur  etiam  tales  perversi  scriptores  de  libro  viventium  et  cum 
justis  non  scribantur!^  Et  non  plura,  sed  vos,  vestros  et  vestra  con- 
servet  Jesus  graciose  in  prosperis  et  graciosius  dirigat  in  agendis. 

Ex  Norwico,  feria  quarta,^  nuncio  festinante. 

And  I  prey  zow  for  Godds  sake  to  be  good  mayster  to 
Jon  Lyster,  &c.  And  I  prey  zow  think,  in  this  Parlement, 
of  the  text  of  Holy  Scripture,  ^uicunque  fecerit  contra  legem 
Dei  et  contra  legem  Regis  judicium  fiet  de  eo^  vel  in  condemnationem 
substantia  ejus^  vel  in  carcerem^  vel  in  exilium^  vel  in  mortem 
(Primo  Esdrse,  vij.,  et  parti  2°  Esdrae  8°). 

416 
FRIAR  BRACKLEY  TO  [JOHN  PASTON] 

Jesus,  Maria,  &c.  Reverende  domine,  si  contingat  ut  sitis  Londoniae  hoc  [ocT. 
termino  in  principio  parliamenti,  haec  poteritis  in  secretis  dicere  domino  Warwik 
ac  domino  Cancellario,  quomodo  Johannes  W.*  apud  Felbrigg  jacet  cum  manu 
forti  contra  pacem  domini  Regis  et  patriae,  qui  quantum  valere  potest  est  hostis 
publicus  et  inimicus  capitalis  domini  Regis  et  suorum  fidelium  dominorum  utili- 
tatem  rei  publicae  et  communitatem  Angliae  diligentium,  pro  quo  taliter  esset 
modo  indilate  et  cum  omni  festinacione  possibili  providendum  quod  esset  com- 
missio  directa  sub  poena  ligeanciae  et  poena  mortis  et  privatione  bonorum  vice- 
comiti,  domino  M.  Stapilton,  domino  W.  Chambirleyn,  W.  Yelverton  justiciario, 
W,  Calthorp,  Johanni  Twyre,  Johanni  Geney,  T.  Gurnay,  Johanni  Fyncham, 
Johanni  Yelverton  Juniori,  Edmundo  Bokyngham,  Johanni  Gros,  Johanni  Dam, 
Johanni  Lomenour,  Jacobo  Arblaster,  T.  Denys,  ut  assistant  sub  pcena  praedicta 
sex  primis  militibus  et  armigeris  ad  excitandum  populum  de  patria  pro  domino 
T.  T.,5  J.  H.,6  P.  Wentworthe,  J.  A.,7  T.  Danyel,  H.  Hunton,  J.  Wode, 
W.  Prentys,  S.  Gunnor,  H.  Todynham,  Joh.  Wyndham,  Palmere  Ballivo  de 
Costsey,  T.  Brygge,  et  suis  complicibus  subito  et  secretiori  modo  capiendo  et 
Tersus  London  adducendo  cum  manu  forti,  et  in  Turri  vel  Newgate  firmiter 


*  Psalm  ci.  (or  cii.)  i8.  2  Psalm  Ixviii.  (or  Ixix.)  28. 

'  *  Feria  quarta'  means  Wednesday.  *  John  Wyndham, 

^  Sir  Thomas  Tuddenham.  •  John  Heydon. 
'  John  Andrews.     See  p.  222. 

227 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1460  cupi  Thorp  de  Scacario  carcere  coUocando,  &c.  Et  tunc  eorura  clientes  et  eis 
focT.l  adhaerentes  non  possent,  ymmo  nfec  auderent,  nocere  populo  patriae  bonse  dis- 
posicionis.  Certe  si  in  hac  parte  fideliter  laborare  in  efFectu  volueritis,  dominus 
Comes  Warwic,  et  omnes  sibi  et  suis  benivoli  essent  vobis  multiformiter  obligati, 
et  tunc  esset  in  NorfFolchia  mansio  concors  et  valde  pacificus.  Utinam  bona 
voluntas  vestra  non  sit  in  hac  materia  pigra,  &c. 

2°.  Item,  quod  Episcopus  Norwicensis  esset  in  curia  Regis  ad  tempus,  vel 
in  parliamento  omnino,  quia  hie  parvum  bonum  facit,  nisi  supportando  iniquos  et 
paci  patriae  contrarios ;  est  enim  satis  dives  ad  comprestandum  pecunias  Regi  in 
necessitate  sua.  Ipse  enim  cum  ducissa  SufF.  et  aliis  personis  pracnominatis  sunt 
Reginae  et  principi  maxime  favorabiles  cum  totis  suis  viribus  ;  et  ideo  maxime 
expediens  est  parti  Regis  et  comitis  Warwic  subtrahere,  diminuere,  et  pocius 
opprimere,  vires  omnium  illorum  praedictorum  eis  et  suis  continue  malignantium 
ffX  adverso,  &c. 

3°.  Item,  vos  et  vestri  praemunire  poteritis,  si  placeat,  Doctores  Kyrry  et 
Godard  quomodo  fama  communis  hie  volat  continue  per  Boreales  et  eorum 
fautores  quod  Regina  ac  sui  firmiter  statuerunt  unanimi  decreto  ipsos  doctores  et 
me  non  solum  morti  ignominiose  tradere  sed  etiam  generaliter  omnes  Fratres 
Minores  citra  flumen  Trent  commorantes  interfici  facere.  Sed  Magister 
Vergeant  cum  socio  qui  in  sermonibus  Reginam  cum  principe  solempniter 
recommendat  et  in  suis  missis  Reginam  nominatim  specificat  per  instanciam 
Ducissse  SufF.  erit  cum  socio  privilegiatus  ab  hac  punicione. 

4°.  Item,  bonum  esset  quod  juvenis  dux  SufF.  cum  suis  militibus  et  armigeris 
uteretur  suis  caicaribus  et  jam  probaretur  in  bello  cui  esset  iidelis,  an  caro  vel 
piscis.  Si  T.  T.  cum  suis  prius  recitatis  essent  unde  memorati  in  parliamento  a 
dominis  et  communibus,  non  dubium  quin  puniti  essent  causatores  insurrectionis 
falsorum  Regis  contra  Comitem  Warwic  apud  pontem  Westmonasterii,  &c. 

5°.  Item,  memorari  dignetur  dominus  Comes  Warwic  quomodo  T.  T., 
J.  H.,  J.  A.,  et  H.  T.,1  J.  W.  et  casteri  gravissime  comminantur  priorem  Wals' 
[Walsingham],  &c. 

6°.  Item,  caveant  Comes  Marchiae  et  Comes  Warwic  ne  quovis  modo  sit 
inter  eos  controversia,  sed  sint  omnino  unanimes  et  Concordes,  nee  aliqua 
cupiditas  consiliariorum  suorum  faveat  alicui  eorum  adversario  propter  lucrum 
bonorum  in  iinalem  deperdicionem  ipsorum  et  amicorum  suorum. 

7°.  Item,  (lat  per  decretum  parliamenti  diminutio  juris  peritorum  ac  legis 
attornatorum  SufF.  et  NorfF.  punicioque  taxata  singulorum  oppressorum,  generosos 
ac  eorum  libcros,  nativosque  tenentes  cotidie  et  annuatim  gravissime  infestancium. 
8".  Continue  ac  continue  cordialiter  cogitate  ac  scrutinio  diligenti  sxpius 
revolvite  quomodo  inimici  vestri  et  adversarii  antiqui,  spiritu  rancoris  et  invidiae 
maliciose  agitati,  nituntur  pro  posse  suo,  et  totis  viribus,  vos,  et  vostros  vobis 
benevolos  funditus  destruere  et  finaliter  deperdere,  quod  absit  omnino  ;  quare  ex 
naturali  legis  dictamine  potestis  et  debetis  vim  vi  volenter  ac  potenter  reprimere 
ac  repellere  et  eorum  maliciis  inveteratis  virili  congressu  rigorose  resistere,  quia 
minus  malim  incomparabiliter  videtur  existere  quod  eorum  obstinata  malicia 
potestate  politica  sit  diminuta  et  quasi  dejecta  quam  vos  et  vestri  affines,  propinuqi 
et  amici  essetis  nimis  depauperati,  et  quasi,  quod  absit,  finaliter  abjecti. 

*  Henry  Tuddenham. 
228 


HENRY  VI 

417 

FRIAR  BRACKLEY  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

Reverendo  magistro  meo  et  amico  singular i 
Johanni  Paston  armigero  detur. 

JHESUS,  Maria,  Raphael,  Johannes  Baptista,  Johannes  1460 
Ewangelista,  Franciscus  Guardianus,  cum  Sanctis  om-  oct.  (?) 
nibus,  succurant  maestis  in  tribulationibus.  Amen. 
Praecordialissime  domine  et  amice  maxime  singularis,  Omissis 
pro  praesenti  vestri  gratitudinis  beneficiis  mihi  saepius  impensis, 
me  humilime  vestra?  reverenciae  recommendo.  Pensetis, 
quaeso,  cum  omni  festinatione  possibili  instabilem  virum, 
utinam  Hibernicum^  non  ingratissimum,  cujus  nacionis  ali- 
quales  proprietates  sunt  istas  : — animo  saeva,  vultu  ferox,  torva 
affatu,  versupellis  moribus  et  inconstancia  in  omnibus  bonis 
viis  suis ;  qui  inter  caetera  magistro  Clementi  retulit  quod 
expensae  annuales  magistri  Johannis  FastolfF,  bonae  memoriae, 
secundum  fidelem  compotum  se  extendunt  omni  anno  ad 
octingentas  marcas  in  Norfolch  et  SufFolch,  &c.,  et  quod  idem 
miles  vobiscum  faciens  pactum  pro  iiij.  M',  &c.,  fuit  purus 
fatuus  ;  et  quod  idem  vobis  donatoriam  literarum  faciens  fuit 
major  fatuus,  &c.,  et  quod  idem  Hibernicus  scit  deteriorare, 
et  diminuere  bona  militis  ad  summam  viginti  m'  marcarum,"^ 
&c.  Ob  reverentiam  Jhesu  Christi,  cavete  quod  impediatur 
omnino  a  suscipiendo  onus  testamenti  quousque  verum  et 
integrum  compotum  reddiderit  de  defuncti  bonis  per  eum 
receptis  tot  annorum  evolutis  et  transactis  curriculis,  &c. 
Item,  quod  non  vendat  nee  alienet  maneria,  terras,  tenementa 
cum  pertinentiis,  nee  commutat  jocalia  nee  evidencialcs  literas, 
nee  pecunias  per  vestrum  germanum,  W.  P.,  et  per  ipsum  re- 
ceptas  London,  Bermondyseye,  &c.,  cum  jam  sciat  de  multis  ubi 
sunt,  &c.  Videtur  mihi,  salvo  saltem  vestro  meliori  judicio,  quod 
de  aliis  personis  et  locis  est  cum  omni  celeritate  possibili  pru- 
denter  providendum  et  politice,  ne  idem  W.  W.  oculis  luscus 
et  denigrato  colore,  in  facie  fuscus,  sit  cum  W.  Yelverton  judice 

*  [Add.  MS.  34,888,  f.  158.]    This  letter  appears  to  be  holograph.    If  we  are  right 
that  it  was  written  just  before  No.  418,  we  may  place  it  early  in  October  1460. 
'  See  p.  213. 

229 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1460    confederatus,  et  per  Ducem  Exonias  satis   tiranizantem   sup- 
ocT.  (?)  portatus  et   per  suos  complices,  &c.     Sapienti  loquor;   nam 
philosophorum  princeps  ait  *  Cave  ab  hiis  quos  natura  signavit ' ; 
et  metrice  dicitur  : 

*  Nam  fallax  faciens  mens,  mores  ac  pariformes 
Concludunt  mutuo  quod  sit  quasi  fraudis  ymagc* 

Dixi  vobis  quod  non  esset  pro  vobis  nee  vestris  utile  in  W. 
W.  aliquam  confidentiam  gerere.  Post  vestrum  didici  reces- 
sum  in  4°"  nostri  collegii  famulis  duplicibus  et  falsis  cum  omni 
perfidia  contra  voluntatem  militis  et  ejus  executores  iniquitatis 
vinculo  confederatis  et  astrictis,  scilicet  Colino  Gallico,  coquinae 
clerico,  W.  W.,  militis  secretario  et  W.  Eton  ;  nunc  in  promp- 
tuario  propter  Jhesum  Christum  deleantur  de  libro  vertuose  et 
unanimiter  viventium  et  a  modo  cum  justis  nequaquam  con- 
scribantur,  &c.  Est  vulgare  proverbium  '  Accordyng  to  ryte 
reson  that  to  oftyn  it  is  in  ceson,  that  in  trust  is  gret  treson.* 
Ideo  cavete  quod  Sapiens  dicit  *  Qui  cito  credit,  levis  est 
corde.'  ^  Et  audite  scripturas  sacrae  sententiam  '  A  malo  inquit 
consiliario  serva  animam  tuam,'  ^  &c.  Nam  alibi  Sapientis  pro- 
clamat  eloquium  :  '  Non  est  sapientia,  non  est  prudentia,  non 
est  consilium  contra  Dominum.'  ^  Haec  ibi.  In  alienis  negociis 
velox,  nee  vivax  erit,  qui  in  propriis  causis  piger  existit.  Rogo 
attendite  et  menti  imprimite  diligenter  quod  revolvite  quomodo 
poteritis  resistere  homini  tam  perverso  noxam  volenti  et  nocu- 
mentum  executoribus  inferre.  Mens  mea  particulam  evangelii 
retinet :  *  Si  in  viridi  ligno  hoc  faciunt  in  arido  quid  fiet  ? '  * 
Quasi  diceret,  si  iste  W.  W.  executorum  ultimus  et  merito 
novissimus  et  per  vestram  et  magistri  Thomae  Howes  dili- 
genciam  inscriptus  tantam  proterviam  gerit,  in  hoc  quasi  ex- 
ordio,  quid  in  fine  maliciose  sit  facturus  ?  Hoc  penitus  ignore. 
Deo  vos  vestros  et  vestra  commendo  et  praesentem  causam. 
Recommendetis  me  si  placeat  recommendandis,  &c.  Scriptum 
festinanter,  hora  prima  post  prandium.  W.  B.,  lator  prac- 
sentis,  intendit  vobis  si  placeat  humilime  et  verissimc  servi- 
turum.  Ex  Castre  in  die  Sabbathi. 
Vester  ad  vota  promptissimus, 

Prater  J.  B.,  Minorum  minimus. 

>  Eccles.  xix.  4.         •  Ibid,  xxxvli.  9  (8).         '  Prov.  xxi.  30.         ♦  Luke  xxiii.  31. 
230 


HENRY  VI 


418 

FRIAR  BRACKLEY  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 
Venerando  suo  magistrOy  Johanni  Paston. 

JesuSy  i^c. 

REVERENDE  domine,  &c.  Propter  Deum  caveatis  a  1460 
confidentia  in  illo  nigro  Hibernico^  oculis  obliquo 
et  lusco,  qui  utinam  corde,  ore  et  opere  non  esset 
obliquior  ;  qui  heri  misit  literam  Colino  Gallico  ;  de  quibus 
dicitur  quod  singuli  caccant  uno  ano.  Et  parvus  Adam  hodie 
porta vit  (?)  magistro  suo  responsum.  Idem  enim  luscus  dicit 
vos  esse  cupidissimum,  quia  multum  afflixistis  debitores  patris 
vestri,  persequendo  eos  cum  omni  rigore,  &c.  Item  dicit 
quod  cum  pater  vester  fuerit  judex  ditissimus,  quasi  nihil 
fecistis  pro  eo  in  distribuendo  elemosinam  pro  anima  ejus,  et 
cum  nihil  feceritis  pro  patre  vestro,  quomodo  pro  magistro 
Fastolf  aliquid  facietis  ?  Item  dicit  '  Utinam  fuissem  in  morte 
magistri  mei,  quia  in  me  ultra  omnes  homines  mundi  maxime 
confisus  est,'  &c.  Item  dicit  quod  in  hora  qua  obiit  magister 
suus,  obviavit  sibi  unus  albus  bubo,  qui  eodem  tempore  juxta 
unam  ecclesiam  continuo  clamavit  mirabiliter  et  volavit  saepius 
iteratis  vicibus  sub  equo  suo  inter  tibias  equi  sui  &c.  Item 
dixit  cuidam  fratri  conventus  mei,  '  Magister  Brakle  accipit 
super  se  magnum  regimen,  &c.,  et  certe,  si  pecunia  legata  in 
ultima  voluntate  suis  servientibus  non  fuerit  in  larga  habun- 
dancia  distributa,  erit  ad  magnum  dedecus  et  verccundiam 
personae  meae,'  &c.  Utinam  caveritis  ita  bene  de  eo  sicut 
ego  cavebo,  quia  cum  sit  filius  Hibernicus,  ego  de  eo  semper 
minus  curabo.     Ipse   vellet  habere  bona  ex   parte  sua,  &c. 

*  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  appears  by  the  contents  to  have  been 
written  about  the  beginning  of  the  Parliament  of  1460,  to  which  it  would  seem 
Paston  did  not  immediately  repair  to  take  his  place,  thus  giving  occasion  to  an  in- 
sinuation that  he  did  not  wish  to  be  called  upon  to  vote  money  for  the  King  and 
Queen. 

^  See  p.  213. 

231 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1460  Deo  teste  non  fecit  (?)^  vos  magistri  sui,  &c.  Haec  omnia 
et  plura  dixit  idem  miser  magistro  Clementi,  a  quo  haec  omnia 
et  plura  didici  &c.  Item  dicit  quod  vos  timetis  adire  locum 
parliamenti  quia  non  vultis  praestare  pecunias  Regi  nee 
Reginas  et  aliis  ;  et  ideo  pigritia  vestra  in  hoc  passu  erit  bonis 
mortui  satis  nociva,  &c.  Ego  tot  et  tanta  audivi  de  illo  quod, 
per  Deum,  nunquam  confidam  in  illo,  &c. ;  est  enim  miser 
multum  malencolicus  et  in  toto  colericus,  et,  salva  patientia 
vestra,  reddat  compotum  de  singulis  antequam  capiat  onus 
testamenti,  &c. 

Judex  ^  eras  venturus  est,  &c.,  et  sicut  se  hie  gerit  vestra 
caritas  notitiam  habebit,  &c.  Rogo  detis  mihi  licentiam  re- 
cedendi  ad  conventum  Norwici,  ad  mutandum  vestimenta  mea 
propter  sudores,  &c.,  et  ad  studendum  pro  sermone,  &c.,  ad 
honorem  Dei,  &c.,  qui  vos  vestros  et  vestra  salvet  in  saecula. 
Amen.  Vester  orator, 

Frater  J.  B. 

On  the  back : — Item  dixit  magistro  Clementi  quod  ipse  non 
vult  esse  Frere,  veni  mecum,  nee  canta  secum,  nee  Dacok,  nee 
facok,  nee  Frater,  lava  pedes,  &c.  Item  dicit  vos  instruxisse 
magistrum  suum  contra  eum  de  auferendo  evidencias,  &c.,  et 
ipse  plures  labores  habuit  pro  eo  quam  vos  vel  aliquis  alius, 
&c.  Custodite  literam  ultimo  a  me  vobis  missam,  &c. 
Utinam  Upton  et  ipse  essent  extra  locum,  &c.,  quia  hie  fiunt 
consumptiones  maximas,  &c. 

Endorsed  in  a  iGth  century  hand: — A  lettrc  much  dispraising  W.  Wircester,  from 
Doctor  Brakley. 

*  The  word  is  '  ft '  in  the  MS.  And  to  make  sense  of  the  passage,  I  must  suppose 
another  word  to  be  omitted.  *  Non  fecit  vos  amicum  magistri  sui,'  i.e.  he  did  not 
make  you  out  to  be  any  friend  of  his  master. 

'  William  Yelverton. 


232 


HENRY  VI 
419 

CHRISTOPHER  HANSSON  TO  JOHN  PASTON» 

To  the  right  worshipfull  Sir  and  Maister^  John  Pas  tony 
Escuiery  at  Norwiche^  be  this  delyvered  in  hast. 

RIGHT  worschipfull  Sir  and  Maister,  I  recomaund  me  un  1460 
to  you.  Please  you  to  wete,  the  Monday  after  oure  oct.  12 
Lady  Day  ^  there  come  hider  to  my  maister  ys  place,* 
my  Maister  Bowser,  Sir  Harry  Ratford,  John  Clay,  and  the 
Harbyger  of  my  Lord  of  Marche,  desyryng  that  my  Lady  of 
York  *  myght  lye  here  untylle  the  comyng  of  my  Lord  of  York 
and  hir  tw  sonnys,  my  Lorde  George  ^  and  my  Lorde  Richard,*^ 
and  my  Lady  Margarete  '^  hir  dawztyr,  whiche  y  graunt  hem  in 
youre  name  to  ly  here  untylle  Mychelmas.  And  she  had  not 
ley  here  ij.  dayes  but  sche  had  tythyng  of  the  londyng  of  my 
Lord  at  Chestre.  The  Tewesday  next  after,  my  Lord  sent  for 
hir  that  sche  shuld  come  to  hym  to  Harford  \_Hereford]y  and 
theder  sche  is  gone.  And  sythe  ^  y  left  here  bothe  the  sunys 
and  the  dowztyr,  and  the  Lord  of  Marche  comyth  every  day  to 
se  them. 

Item,  my  Lord  of  York  hath  dyvers  straunge  commissions 
fro  the  Kyng  for  to  sitte  in  dyvers  townys  comyng  homward  ; 
that  is  for  to  sey,  in  Ludlow,  Schrrofysbury,  Herford,  Leycetre, 
Coventre,  and  in  other  dyvers  townys,  to  punych  them  by  the 
fawtes  to  the  Kyngs  lawys. 

As  for  tythyngs  here,  the  Kyng  is  way  at  Eltham  and  at 
Grenewych  to  hunt  and  to  sport  hym  there,  bydyng  the  Parle- 

'  [From  Fcnn,  i.  198.]  This  letter  must  have  been  written  in  the  year  1460,  when 
the  Duke  of  York  came  over  from  Ireland,  his  party  having  been  victorious  at  the 
battle  of  Northampton,  and  gained  possession  of  the  King's  person. 

*  The  Nativity  of  Our  Lady  is  on  the  8th  September.  The  Monday  following  was 
in  this  year  the  15th. 

5  Probably  Sir  John  Fastolf's  place  in  Southwark. 

*  Cecily,  Duchess  of  York.  *  Afterwards  Duke  of  Clarence. 

'  Afterwards  Richard  iii.  7  Afterwards  Duchess  of  Burgundy. 

*  The  modem  version  in  Fenn  reads :  *  And  she  hath  left  here.' 

^33 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1460    ment,  and  the  Quene  and  the  Prynce  byth  in  Walys  alway. 
OCT.  12    ^j^jj  jg  ^j|.jj  j^jj.  ^]^g  Y)^^^  Qf  Excestre  and  other,  with  a  fewe 

mayne,  as  men  seythe  here. 

And  the  Due  of  Somerset  he  is  in  Depe  [^Dieppe]  ;  withe 
hym  Maister  John  Ormound,  Wyttyngham,  Andrew  TroUyp, 
and  other  dy vers  of  the  garyson  of  Gyanys,  under  the  Kyng  of 
Fraunce  safcondyte,  and  they  seythe  here,  he  porpose  hym  to 
go  to  Walys  to  the  Quene.  And  the  Erie  of  Wyltschyre  ^  is 
sty  lie  in  pece  at  Otryght  at  the  Frerys  [Fmrj],  whiche  is 
seyntwary. 

Item,  Colbyne  ys  come  home  to  my  maister  is  place,  and 
seyth  that,  at  your  departyng  ^  ouzt  of  London,  ze  send  hym 
word  that  he  schuld  come  hedder  to  the  place,  and  be  here  un 
tylle  your  comyng  a  zene ;  and  so  he  is  here  it,  and  seith  he 
woUe  take  no  maister  but  be  your  avyce,  nether  the  leese 
[nevertheless]  awaytythe  uppon  Maister  Oldhall  the  most  parte 
at  Redre  ^  at  his  place. 

Item,  Maister  Ponyngs  hathe  enteret  on  an  two  or  iij.  placys 
uppon  the  Erie  of  Northomberlond,  and  he  stondyth  in  good 
grace  of  the  Kyng,  my  Lord  of  Marche,  my  Lord  Warwyk, 
and  my  Lord  of  Salysbury.  Most  parte  of  the  contre  abought 
his  lyflod  hold  aythe  withe  hym.  And  my  maisteras  your 
sister  *  is  not  delyverd  as  yet ;  God  yef  hir  god  delyveraunce. 

No  more  to  you  at  this  tyme,  but  and  ze  wolle  comaund 
me  any  servyce  y  may  doo,  it  is  redy.  And  Jesu  have  you  in 
his  blessid  kepyng ;  and  I  beseche  you  this  letter  may  comaund 
me  to  my  maisteras  your  moder,  and  my  maisteras  your  wyfe, 
and  alle  your  houshold. 

Wreten  at  London  the  xij.  day  of  Octobre. 

Your  owne  Servaunt,         Christofer  Hansson. 

*  James  Butler,  Earl  of  Wiltshire  and  Ormond. 

*  Paston  must  have  left  London  and  gone  to  Norwich  not  long  before  the  Parlia- 
ment, which  began  on  the  7th  October  5  and,  as  we  have  already  observed,  he  did  not 
return  in  time  for  its  commencement. 

'  Redriff  or  Rotherhithe. 

*  Elizabeth,  wife  of  Robert  Poynings. — See  No.  406,  p.  217. 


234 


HENRY  VI 

420 

ABSTRACT  1 
Robert  Call  to  [John  Paston]. 

Has  delivered  the  horse-litter  to  Robert  Lynne  according  to  his  message.  l46o(?) 
Cannot  get  a  farmer  for  Mauteby.     Sends  John  Deye.     He  will  not  pass  one    qct.  i  7 
combe  barley  for  an  acre.     He  has  fourteen  acres  *  reasonably  well  dight  to  sow 
on  wheat.'     None  will  take  the  close  at  Mauteby  at  the  price  agreed  upon  with 
Calle  by  Lynne  and  Robert  Butler. 

Caister,  St.  Luke's  Eve. 

P.S.  on  the  backi  unimportant. 

\ 

[From  what  is  said  in  Margaret  Paston's  letter  of  the  20th  October  following 
about  the  lands  at  Maultby  being  unlet,  this  may  perhaps  have  been  written  in  the 
same  year  three  days  earlier.] 


THOMAS  PLAITER  TO  JOHN  PASTON  « 

I'd  my  rygth  worchipfull  and  my  good  maister, 
John  Fasten^  Esquyer^  in  hast. 

RYGTH  worchipfuU  and  my  most  speciall  synguler  good  1460 
maister,  I  recomend  me  to  you,  besechyng  your  mais-  [°^'] 
tership  not  to  be  dysplesed  with  my  long  taryans,  and 
also  to  take  it  to  no  gref  thou  it  were  long  or  1  wrot  to  you  ; 
for  in  good  feyth  I  wend  my  self  with  in  sevenygth  after  Seynt 
Feythesmesse  ^  to  have  ben  at  London,  and  for  asmoche  as 
Suthwell*  desyred  me  to  tarye  for  evydcns  gevyng,  &c.  I 
promysed  hym  so  to  do  and  tarye  tyll  the  Munday  after  Seynt 
Feythesmesse,   or   tyll   the   Tewysday   sevenyth  after  at  the 

1  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.] 

'  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  The  writer  of  this  excuses  his  delay  in  coming  to 
London,  as  he  had  been  asked  to  stay  and  give  evidence  before  the  under-escheator, 
who  was  to  sit  at  Acle  on  Tuesday  after  St.  Luke's  Day.  This  refers  to  the 
inquisition  on  the  lands  of  Sir  John  Fastolf,  which  was  taken  at  Acle  on  that  day 
in  1460.  3  St.  Faith's  Day  is  on  the  6th  of  October. 

*  Richard  Southwell,  Escheator  of  Norfolk. 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1 460  ferthest,  and  at  tho  dayes  I  hard  no  word  fro  hym.  And  so 
OCT.]  uppon  the  Thursday  after  had  I  word  that  the  under-eschetour 
schuld  sytte  at  Ocle  ^  the  Tewysday  after  Seynt  Luce  ;  ^  and  so 
I  tarye  as  yette,  and  trust  verely  to  be  with  you  the  Saterday  at 
the  ferthest  after  Seynt  Luce.  Item,  Sir,  if  my  Maister  of  the 
RoUes^  be  not  come,  I  trust  to  God  to  com  tydely  i  now,  as 
for  the  traversys  ;  and  if  ye  besi  you  to  the  innyng  ther  of  or 
I  com,  Richard  Ley  schall  delyver  hem  you,  if  ye  send  to  hym 
for  it ;  for  I  left  hem  with  hym  to  gete  hem  in  if  he  mygth,  and 
promysed  hym  a  reward  for  his  labour.  Item,  my  maistres* 
and  aU  folkes  be  hey  11  and  mery,  blyssed  be  Jesu,  ho  have  you 
in  his  blyssed  governans  and  proteccion. 

By  your,  Thomas  Plaiter. 

422 
THOMAS  PLAITER  TO  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 

^0  my  maister,  John  Paslon,  Esquyer. 

[ocT.  21J  A  [FTER]  my  most  speciall  recomendacion,  like  your 
/-%  maisterchip  wete  that  the  office*'  is  taken  at  Ocle  in 
lyke  forme  as  Suthwell  ^  can  schew  you,  for  Fraunceys 
Costard  hath  sent  it  hym,  and  the  jentylmen  that  passed  uppon 
the  office  wold  fynd  nor  medyll  nouther  with  the  tenurs  nor  ho 
is  next  here  [heir].  Wherfor  if  ye  wol  have  other  wyse  found, 
Fraunceys  Costard  hath  under  take  it,  but  it  schal  not  be  by 
suche  men  of  worchip  [as]  is  yn  this.  Item,  the  under-chryf 
was  at  Ocle,  and  ded  and  sayd  to  the  jentylmen  al  that  ever  he 
cowde  to  the  lette  of  the  matter.  And  as  for  Suffolk,  I  under- 
stand they  have  no  warant,  so  1  tarye  as  yet  what  cas  that  ever 

*  Acle  in  Norfolk. 

2  St.  Luke's  Day  is  the  i8th  October.     The  Tuesday  after  it  was  the  aist  in  1460. 

'  Thomas  de  Kirkcby.  *  Margaret  Pas^ton. 

^  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  must  have  been  written  immediately  after 
the  taking  of  the  inquisition  referred  to  in  the  preceding.  The  list  of  the  jury  who 
took  it  is  on  a  separate  paper  found  apart  from  this  letter,  in  which  it  was  enclosed. 
The  names  of  those  indicated  as  sworn  are  identical  with  those  on  the  official  record 
(\n(\\\\%\tion% post-mortem,  38  and  39  Hen.  vi.,  No.  48),  but  seven  additional  names  are 
included,  besides  one  that  is  struck  out. 

'  The  inquisition. — See  p.  199,  Note  2.  ^  Richard  Southwell. — See  p.  191. 

236 


HENRY  VI 

falle.     And  if  ye  wold  that  I  tarye  not,  that  it  lyke  you  by  the     1460 
brynger  her  of  to  send  me  hasty  wurd.  L°*^*  **] 

I  send  you  the  names  of  the  jure  here  in. 

Your,  Thomas  Plaiter. 

On  a  separate  paper  formerly  enclosed  in  the  preceding  is  tie  following 

List : — 

Jurati  pro  Domino  Rege} 

Willelmus  Rokewood,  armiger,  jur'. 

Johannes  Berney,  armiger,  jur'. 

Radulphus  Lampytte,  armiger,  jur\ 

Johannes  Byllyngford,  armiger,  jur'. 

[Jacobus  Arblaster,  armiger,  jur'.]^ 

W  illelmus  Deymayne,  armiger,  jur'. 

Willelmus  Dawbeney,  armiger,  jur'. 

Willelmus  JuUes,  jur'. 

Christofre  Norwiche,  jur', 

Thomas  Holler,  jur'. 

Johannes  Berkyng,  jur'. 

Robert  Bryghtlede,  jur'. 

Robertus  Spany,  jur*. 

Johannes  Bernard,  jur'. 

Rogerus  Iryng,  jur'. 

Robertus  Townesende. 

Johannes  Grygges  de  Ranworth,  jur*. 

Robertus  Regestre,  jur'. 

Johannes  Maunvyle,  jur'. 

Willelmus  Rysyng. 

Johannes  Doke. 

Robertus  Jekkes,  jur'. 

Johannes  Why[te]. 

Henr[icus]     .   .   .  ratte. 

Car[ol]us  Barker. 

Johannes  Cappe. 

Thomas  Paternoster. 

*  This  is  a  panel  of  the  jury  drawn  up  before  the  inquisition  was  taken.  The 
heading  and  the  word  *jur' '  opposite  the  names  of  those  sworn  have  been  added 
afterwards.  '  This  name  is  scored  out  with  the  pen. 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  * 

I'o  my  ryth  worchepfull  husbond,  Jon  Paston, 
be  thys  delyveryd  in  hast. 

1460     TP\  YTH  worchepfull  husbonde,  I  recomand   me   to  yow. 

*^^'  ^  ^  r\  Plesyth  it  yow  to  weet  that  I  receyvyd  yowyr  letter  that 
ye  sent  me  by  Nycolas  Colman  on  Sonday  last  past. 
And  as  for  the  mater  that  ye  desyiryd  me  to  breke  of  to  my 
cosyn  Rokwode,  it  fortunyd  so  that  he  came  to  me  on  Sonday 
to  dyner  sone  aftyr  that  I  had  yowyr  letter  ;  and  when  we  had 
dynyd,  I  mevyd  to  hym  ther  of  in  covert  termys,  as  Playter 
shall  informe  yow  eraftyr.  And  as  I  thowt  by  hym,  and  so 
ded  Playter  also  by  the  langwage  that  he  had  to  us,  that  he 
wold  be  as  feythfuU  as  he  kowd  or  myte  be  to  that  good  Lorde 
that  ye  wrot  of,  and  to  yow  also,  in  ony  thynge  that  he  kowde 
or  myte  do  in  case  wer  that  he  wer  set  in  ofFyse,  so  that  he 
myth  owte  do  ;  and  ther  to  he  seyd  he  wolde  be  bownde  in  a 
m^  li.  [£1000]  and  he  was  so  myche  worthe. 

As  for  the  todyr  that  ye  desyiryd  I  scholde  meve  to  of  the 
same  mater,  me  semyth  he  is  to  yonge  to  take  ony  swhyche 
thyngys  up  on  hym ;  and  also  I  knowe  veryly  that  he  scholl 
never  love  feythfully  the  todyr  man  that  ye  desyiryd  that  he 
schuld  do,  for  when  he  rem[em]bryth  the  tyme  that  is  paste, 
and  ther  for  I  spak  not  to  hym  ther  of. 

Thys  day  was  holde  a  gret  day  at  Okyll  ^  befor  the  undyr 
schreve  and  the  undyr  exchetor,  for  the  mater  of  Syr  Jon 
Fastolfys  londys  ;  and  ther  was  my  cosyn  Rookwod  and  my 
cosyn  Jon  Berney  of  Redham,  and  dyvers  odyr  jentylmen  and 
thryfty  men  of  the  contre ;  and  the  mater  is  well  sped  aftyr 
your  intent  (blyssyd  be  God  !)  as  ye  schall  have  knowlage  of 
in  hast. 

*  [From  Fenn,  iv.  1 94.]  Reference  is  made  in  this  letter,  as  in  the  preceding,  to 
the  holding  of  the  inquisition  on  Sir  John  Fastolf's  lands  at  Acle,  which  v^as  on 
Tuesday  the  21st  October  1460,  the  day  this  letter  was  written. 

•  Acle,  in  Norfolk. 

238 


HENRY  VI 

I  suppose  Playter  schall  be  with  yow  on  Sonday  or  on  1460 
Monday  next  comyng,  if  he  may.  Ye  have  many  good  prayers  oct.  21 
of  the  poer  pepyl  that  God  schuld  sped  yow  at  thys  Parlement, 
for  they  leve  in  hope  that  ye  schold  helpe  to  set  a  wey  that 
they  myte  leve  in  better  pese  in  thys  contre  thane  they  have 
do  befor,  and  that  wollys  schold  be  purveyd  for,  that  they 
schuld  not  go  owt  of  thys  lond  as  it  hathe  be  sufFryd  to  do  be 
for,  and  thane  schall  the  poer  pepyll  more  leve  bettyr  thane 
they  have  do  by  her  ocwpacion  ther  in. 

Thomas  Bone  hathe  salde  all  yowyr  wole  her  for  xx^.  a 
stone,  and  goode  swerte  fownd  to  yow  ther  for,  to  be  payid 
a  Myhellmas  next  comyng  ;  and  it  is  solde  ryth  well  aftyr  that 
the  wole  was,  for  the  moste  part  was  ryte  febyll.  Item,  ther 
be  bowt  for  yow  iij.  horse  at  Seynt  Feythys  feyer,  and  all  be 
trotterys,  ryth  fayir  horse,  God  save  hem,  and  they  be  well 
kepyd.  Item,  your  myllys  at  Heylysdon  be  late  \_/ei]  for  xij. 
marke,  and  the  myller  to  fynde  the  reparacion ;  and  Rychard 
Calle  hathe  let  all  yowyr  londys  at  Caster ;  but  as  for  Mawtby 
londys,  they  be  not  let  yet.  Wylliam  Whyte  hathe  payid  me 
a  geyne  thys  daye  hys  x.//.,  and  I  have  mad  hym  a  qwetans 
ther  of,  be  cause  I  had  not  hys  oblygacion. 

Ther  is  gret  talkyng  in  thys  contre  of  the  desyir  of  my 
Lorde  of  York.^  The  pepyll  reporte  full  worchepfully  of  my 
Lord  of  Warwyk.  They  have  no  fer  her  but  that  he  and 
othyr  scholde  schewe  to  gret  favor  to  hem  that  have  be 
rewyllers  of  thys  contre  be  for  tyme. 

I  have  done  all  yowyr  erandys  to  Syr  Thomas  Howes  that 
ye  wrote  to  me  for.  I  ame  rythe  glade  that  ye  have  sped 
welle  in  yowyr  materys  be  twyx  Syr  Fylyp  Wentworthe  and 
yow,  and  so  I  pray  God  ye  may  do  in  all  othyr  materys  to  hys 
plesans.  As  for  the  wrytyngys  that  ye  desyirid  that  Playter 
schulde  sende  yow,  Rychard  Call  told  me  that  they  wer  at 
Herry  Barborys,  at  the  Tempyll  gate. 

The  mayir-  and  the  mayires  sent  hedyr  her  dynerys  thys 
day,  and  Jon  Dame  came  with  hem,  and  they  dynyd  her.  I 
am  beholde  to  hem,  for  they  have  sent  to  me  dyvers  tymys 

^  The  claim  made  by  Richard,  Duke  of  York,  to  the  Crown  in  Parliament  on  the 
17th  October  1460. 

*  John  Gilbert,  Mayor  of  Norwich. 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1460  sythe  ye  yed  hense.  The  meyr  seyth  that  ther  is  no  jentyl- 
ocT*  2 1  man  in  Northefolk  that  he  woU  do  more  for  than  he  wole  for 
yow,  if  it  laye  in  hys  poer  to  do  for  yovv.  J.  Perse  is  stylle  in 
prisone,  but  he  wolle  not  confese  more  thane  he  ded  when  ye 
wer  at  home.  Edmond  Brome  was  with  me,  and  tolde  me 
that  Perse  sent  for  hym  for  to  come  spek  with  hym,  and  he 
tolde  me  that  he  was  with  hym  and  examynyd  hym,  but  he 
wold  not  be  a  knowe  to  hym  that  he  hade  no  knowlage  wher 
no  goode  was  of  hys  masterys  more  thane  he  hade  knowlageyd 
to  yow.  He  tolde  me  that  he  sent  for  hym  to  desyir  hym  to 
labor  to  yow  and  to  me  for  hym  if  ye  had  be  at  home ;  and 
he  tolde  me  that  he  seyd  to  hym  ayen  that  he  wold  never 
labor  for  hym  but  [unless]  he  myth  know  that  he  wer  trwe  to 
hys  mastyr,  thow  it  lay  in  hys  power  to  do  ryth  myche  for 
hym.  I  suppose  it  schulde  do  none  harme  thow  the  seyd 
Perse  wer  remevyd  ferther.  I  pray  to  Gode  yeve  grace  that 
the  trowthe  may  be  knowe,  and  that  the  dede  may  have  part 
of  hys  owne  goode.  And  the  blissyd  Trinyte  have  yow  in 
Hys  kepyng. 

Wretyn    in  hast   at  Heylysden   the   Tuesday   next  aftyr 


Seynt  Lwke. 


Be  yowyrs,  '  M.  P. 


424 

PIERS  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  1 

To  myn  fight  reverent  and  worchipphull  Maisterez  Pas  tony 
be  this  delivered. 

1460      I  )  IGHT  reverent  and  wurchippfuU  maisteres,  I   recom- 

1^      aunde  me  un  to  yow,  beseching  yow  of  your  good 

'*-  maisteresshipp  to  be  myn  good  maisteres  to  help  wit 

your  gracious  woord  un  to  myn  right  reverent  and  wurchip- 

^  This  and  the  letter  following  appear  to  have  been  written  by  the  prisoner  spoken 
of  in  the  end  of  Margaret  Paston's  letter  immediately  preceding.  We  have  accord- 
ingly placed  them  here  as  belonging  to  the  same  period,  though  from  a  subsequent 
letter  (No.  462)  we  may  rather  surmise  that  this  first  of  the  two  was  written  in 
1461. 

240 


HENRY  VI 

phuU  maister  and  your  to  take  of  me,  his  pore  presoner  and  1460 
your,  suerte  queche  I  xall  fynd  to  be  bounde  for  me  to  brynge 
me  un  to  all  answere,  in  to  the  tyme  that  myn  maister  and  ze 
have  dimisse  me  wit  myn  suerte.  And  bescheche  your  good 
maistereschipp  to  prey  myn  mayster  that  he  will  yeve  yow 
lycense  wit  his  wurchippfull  counsaill  and  youre,  in  case  that 
myn  maister  may  nout  tarie,  that  ze  in  his  absence  may  take 
myn  seid  suerte.  And  if  it  please  his  heyghnesse  and  youre, 
that  I  may  have  answere  ayene  be  the  bryngere  of  this,  and 
here  up  I  xall  send  for  myn  suertes,  queche  I  trust  in  Good 
xul  be  to  your  plesure.  No  more  att  this  tyme.  I  prey  God 
evyr  have  yow  in  kepyng. 

Be  your  pore  presonere, 

Piers,  sum  tyme  the  servaunt  of 
John  of  Berneye. 


PERSE  TO  SIR  ROBERT  ROKESBY^ 
"To  my  right  worschipfull  Sir,  Robert  Rokysby. 

RYGHT  wurshipfull  Sir,  I  recomaunde  me  to  you, 
besechyng  you,  of  your  goode  mastership,  that  ye 
wol  wechesafe  to  speeke  to  Richard  Kowven  that  he 
myght  brynge  me  or  sende  me  the  money  that  is  betwen  hym 
and  me  in  all  the  haste  that  he  maye,  for  in  goode  feythe  I 
hadde  never  more  neede  for  to  have  help  of  my  goode  as 
I  have  at  this  tyme,  for,  Godwot,  it  stonde  right  straunge  with 
me  ;  for  the  false  chayler  that  kepeth  me  entretethe  me  worse 
thanne  it  weere  a  dogge,  for  I  am  feterid  worse  thanne  ever  I 
whas,  and  manacled  in  the  hands  by  the  daye  and  nyght,  for 
he  is  a  feerde  of  me  for  brekyng  a  weye.  He  makethe  false 
tales  of  me,  throw  the  means  of  a  false  qwene  that  was 
tendyng  to  a  Frensheman  that  is  presoner  to  my  Lord  Roose,^ 

*  [From  Fcnn,  iii.  432.] 

*  Thomas,  Lord  Roos.  He  fled  to  Scotland  with  Margaret  of  Anjou  after  the 
battle  of  Towton  in  1461,  and  was  beheaded  at  Newcastle  after  the  battle  of  Hexhain 
in  14.64. 

VOL.  III. Q  241 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1460  and  for  be  cause  of  that  he  bronde  me  every  day  be  John  of 
Berney.  that  is  goone  to  the  tother  Lords ;  ^  but  I  truste  to 
God  oonys  to  qwite  hys  meede.  And,  Sir,  I  thanke  you 
mekel  of  that  ye  have  doone  for  me  or  seide  ;  and,  Sir,  I  shal 
deserve  it  a  yenst  yow,  be  the  grace  of  God,  for  i'  feythe  I  am 
be  holden  to  you  more  thane  to  all  men  that  ever  I  founde  syn 
I  cam  in  preson. 

No  more  to  you  at  this  tyme,  but  God  have  you  in  His 


kepyng. 


Be  your  servaunt  and  bedman,  Perse. 


426 

FRIAR   BRACKLEY  TO  JOHN  PASTON* 

I'd  the  rite  worshipful  esqwyr^  John  Paston^  be  this  presentid. 

Jesus^  Maria,  Johannes  Baptista.     Franciscus,  cum  Sanctis 
omnibus,  assistant  vobis  vestris  in  laboribus.     Amen. 

OCT.  24  '\  '¥'  TORSCHIPFUL  and  most  interely  bitrustid  mayster 
\/\/  and  specyal  frend,  after  dute  of  al  lowly  recomen- 
T  ▼  dacyon,  ze  schal  conceyve  that  I  certefye  zow  for 
trewthe.  I  comonyd  late  with  a  worschipful  and  a  wele  namyd, 
a  good  thrifty  man  of  this  cuntre,  whiche  told  me  in  secrete 
wyse  that  he  herd  Doctor  Aleyn  seyn  after  the  Parlement  of 
Covintre^  that  yf  the  Lords  that  tyme  reynyng  and  now 
discessid  myte  haf  standyn  in  governans,  that  Fortesku  the 
justise.  Doctor  Moreton,  Jon  Heydon,  Thorp  and  he,  schuld 
be  made  for  evir  ;  and  yf  it  turnyd  to  contrary  wyse,  it  schuld 

I  The  Lords  of  the  Duke  of  York's  party. 

'  [From  Fenn,  iii.  386.]  This  letter  was  clearly  written  after  the  battle  of 
Northampton  in  1460,  by  which  the  state  of  parties  at  the  Parliament  of  Coventry  in 
1459  was  exactly  reversed. 

With  regard  to  this  and  other  letters  of  Dr.  Brackley,  the  original  editor,  Sir 
John  Fenn,  has  expressed  a  misgiving  that  he  may  in  some  instances  have  misread  the 
contractions  used  in  the  Latin  words.  This  was  certainly  the  case  in  the  present  letter, 
in  which  misreadings  have  been  corrected,  and  some  passages  supplied  from  the  lis. 

'  Held  in  December  1459. 

242 


HENRY  VI 

growe  to  her  fynal  confusyon  and  uttyr  destruccyon  ;  for  why,  1460 
the  parlyows  [/)m/o«j]  writing  and  the  myschevous  inditing  °*^-  *+ 
was  ymaginid,  contrivid,  and  utterly  concludid  by  her  most 
vengeable  labour,  &c.,  and  her  most  malicyows  conspiracye 
ayens  the  innocent  lords,  knytis,  gentilis,  and  comonys,  and 
alle  her  issu  f)erpetuel,  &c.  And  as  I  wrote  last  to  zour 
maysterschip  the  text  of  Jeremias  c°  8°  Vere  mendacium  operatus 
est  stilus  mendax  scribarum ;  it  folwith  in  the  same  place, 
Confusi  sunt  sapientes,  perterriti  et  capti  sunt;  verbum  Domini 
projecerunty  et  sapientia  nulla  est  in  eis.  Propterea  dabo  mulieres 
eorum  exteris ;  agros  eorum  haredibus  alienis^  (sfc.  I  wolde  myn 
Lord  Chaunceler  and  my  specyal  Lord  Erl,  utinam  Duke,  of 
Warwyk,  with  al  her  trewe  affinyte,  schuld  remembre  this 
text,  which  is  Holy  Scripture,  &c.,  as  I  wold  do  by  for  the 
Kyng  and  hise  Lords  at  the  Cros ;  ^  for  the  principil  of  this 
text  hath  be  contynued  in  dayly  experiens  sithe  bifore  the 
Parlement  of  Bury ;  ^  but  the  conclusyon  of  this  text  came 
never  zet  to  experiens,  and  that  is  gret  rewthe.  Consideret 
discretio  vestra  singulorum  annorum  curricula,  et  pcrcipietis 
tunc  perplurima  exempla  de  dominorum  fidclium  atque  com- 
munium  morte  satis  injuriosa  multiformiter  lamentanda  dis- 
currendo  per  singula.  Ex  paucis  scit  discretio  vestra 
perpendere  plura,  &c.  Et  ubi  ego  semel  in  ecclesia  Pauli 
palam  praedicavi  hunc  textum,  Non  credas  inimico  tuo  in 
atemum  (Ecc.  1 2°),  et  quidam  hujus  regni  doctor  et  episcopus, 
utinam  non  indignus,  asseruit  eundem  textum  Scripturae  Sacrae 
non  incorporatum,  quid  doctor  Nicholaus  de  Lira  super  eundem 
textum  dicit,  contra  audietis.  Non  credas ^  ^f.,  id  est,  Nun- 
quam  credas  ei  quem  probasti  inimicum,  &c.  Sequitur  in 
textu  : — Sicut  aramentum  aruginat  malicia  illius,  id  est,  rubigi- 
nem  odii  servat  interius,  licet  contrarium  ostendatur  exterius. 
Ideo  in  textu  sequitur  : — Etsi  humiliatus  vadat  corvus  [curvus'], 
tibi  magnam  reverenciam  exhibendo,  affirma^  abice  [abjice\ 
animum  tuum  ab  illo^  nullo  modo  credendo  eiy  et  custodi  te  ab 
illo.  Non  statuas  ilium  penes  te  (id  est,  ipsum  tibi  familiarem 
exhibendo)  ;  ne  conversus  stet  in  loco  suo  [should  be  /«o]  te 
supplantando  ;  et  in  novissimo  agnoscas  verba  mea  esse  vera,  sed 

1  Paul's  Cross.  •  In  1447. 

243 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1460  nimis  tarde.  Sequltur  :  ^is  miserebitur  incantatori  a  serpente 
OCT.  24  percusso^  &c.  ;  et  qui  comitatur  cum  viro  iniquo  et  obvolutus  est 
in  peccatis  ejus  ?  Una  hora  tecum  permanehit ;  si  autem  de~ 
clinaveris  non  supportahit.  In  labiis  suis  indulcat  inimicus,  el 
in  corde  suo  insidiatur,  ut  subvertat  te  in  foveam.  In  oculis  suis 
lacrimatur  inimicuSy  et  si  invenerit  tempus  non  saciabitur  sanguine. 
Si  incurrerint  tibi  mala  [invenies']  eum  illic  priorem^  &c.  In 
finem  rogo,  videte  textum  et  postillatores  super  eodem,  ex 
quibus  potestis  plane  considerare  episcopum  modernum  ali- 
quando  Scripturam  Sacram  ignorare,  &c.  Utinam  dominorum 
fidelium  provida  discrecio  amicorum  dileccionem  sapienter  sic 
pensaret  quod  inimicorum  dileccionem  nequaquam  sic  amaret, 
ut  inimicis  mortalibus  confidenciam  exhiberet ;  quare  ut  prius 
sic  replico  Jesu  Sirach  sanum  et  salubre  consilium,  Non  credas 
inimico  tuo  in  aternum.  Sapienti,  non  insipienti  scribo.  Plura 
habeo  vestrae  reverentias  scribere  quas  jam  non  expedit  calamo 
commendare.  Uxor  Johannis  Berney  de  Redham  jam  infra 
triduum  peperit  filium,  &c.  Magistra  mea  uxor  vestra  sana 
est  cum  filiis  vestris  et  filiabus  ac  tota  familia.  Conventus 
noster  inter  caeteros  habet  statum  vestrum  specialissime  recom- 
mendatum  in  missis  ac  orationibus,  consuetisque  suffragiis ;  et 
cum  jam  sitis  in  parliamento  praesenti  pro  milite  electo,  uti 
vobis  consulo  verbis  Pauli  Apostoli,  Labora  sicut  bonus  miles 
Jesu  Christi ;  ^  et  alibi,  Job  utendo  verbis.  Militia  super  terram 
est  vita  hominis  (Job  7).  Viriliter  igitur  agite  et  con/or tetur  cor 
vestrum  quia  speratis  in  Domino  (in  Psalmo).^  ^i^y  inquit 
Sapiens,  speravit  in  Domino  et  confusus  est^  et  permansit  in 
mandatis  Dei  et  derelictus  est  ?  '  quasi  diceret,  nullus. 

Ex    Norwico    feria    sexta    post     festum     Sancti     Lucae 
Evangelistas.  [^Not  Signed."] 


1  2  Tim.  ii.  3.  '  Psalm  xxx.  (xxxi.)  24. 

^  Eccles.  ii.  ii,  iz  (v.  lo  of  our  English  version). 


244 


HENRY  VI 

427 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 

To  my  ryth  welbelovyd  hrodyr^  Clement  Paston^ 
for  to  delyver  to  hys  hrodyr  Jon^  in  haste. 

RYTH  w[urshepfu]ll  husbonde,  I  recomande  me  to  yow.  1460 
Plesyth  yow  to  weet  that  I  receyvyd  a  lettyr  on  Seynt  oct.  29 
Symondys  evyn  and  J[w]d,  that  came  frome  JonPaston,^ 
in  the  wyche  lettyr  he  wrot  that  ye  desyryd  that  I  scholde  do 
Jon  Paston  or  Thomas  P[layter]  looke  in  the  gret  standyng 
chyste  in  on  of  the  gret  canvas  baggys  whyche  standyth  ageyns 
the  lokk,  for  the  copys  of  the  fals  inqwest  of  ofys  that  was 
fownde  in  Northefolk,  and  for  the  kopy  of  the  comyssyon 
that  came  to  Jon  Andrewys  and  Fylpot  and  Heydon,  and  othyr 
thyngys  towchynge  the  same  mater,  I  have  do.  Jon  Paston 
sowte  all  iij.  grete  baggys  in  the  seyd  kofyr  at  ryth  good  leyser, 
and  he  can  non  swhyche  fynde.  Plesyth  it  yow  to  remembre 
ye  sent  me  word  in  the  fyrste  lettyr  that  ye  sent  me,  that  ye 
wolde  that  Playter  scholde  asent  hem  up  to  yow  to  London, 
and  I  schewyd  hym  yowyr  wryttyng  howe  that  ye  wrote  to  me 
ther  in.  I  suppose  be  cawse  he  purposyd  to  come  up  to 
London  hym  selve  hastely,  he  sent  yow  none  answer  ther  of. 
Rychard  Calle  tolde  me  that  alle  swhyche  thyngys  were 
lefte  with  Hery  Barbore  at  the  Tempyle  Gate  when  the  last 
terme  was  doo,  and  soo  I  sent  yow  worde  in  a  lettyr  whyche 
was  wretyn  on  the  Twesday  next  aftyr  Seynt  Looke,^  and  ther 
in  was  an  answer  of  all  the  fyrst  lettyr  that  ye  sent  me.  I  sent 
itt  yow  by  yonge  Thomas  Elys.  I  sent  yow  anothyr  lettyr  by 
Playter,  the  whyche  was  wretyn  on  Saterday  *  last  past. 

Item,  I  receyvyd  a  lettyr  frome  yow  on  Sonda^,^  of  the 

*  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  The  date  of  this  letter  is  ascertained  by  the  state- 
ment at  the  end  that,  on  the  morrow,  a  *  day '  was  to  be  kept  at  Bungay  for  Fastolf 's 
lands.  The  inquisition  on  Fastolt's  lands  in  the  county  of  Suffolk  was  held  at  Bungay 
on  Thursday  before  All  Saints,  39  Henry  vi.,  i.^.  30th  October  1460. — (Inquisitions 
post  mortem,  38  and  39  Hen.  vi..  No.  48.) 

2  The  elder  son  of  that  name. 

»  See  No.  423.  «  October  a  5th.  •  October  *6th. 

245 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1 460  wyche  I  sent  yow  an  answher  of  ma  lettyr  on  Seynt  Symondes 
OCT.  29  Evyn  and  Jwde  by  Edmunde  Clere  of  Stokysby ;  and  as  sone 
as  I  hade  the  seyd  lettyr  on  Sonday,  I  sent  to  Syr  Thomas 
Howes  for  the  mater  that  ye  desyryd  that  he  scholde  inqwer  of 
to  Bokyng,  and  I  sent  a  yene  sethe  to  the  seyd  Syr  Thomas  for 
to  have  knowlage  of  the  same  mater  yestyrdaye,  and  I  have  non 
answher  of  hym  yet.  He  sent  me  worde  he  scholde  do  hys 
part  there  in,  but  othyr  answer  have  I  none  yet  of  hym.  I 
sende  yow  in  a  canvase  bage,  inselyd  by  Nycolas  Colman,  as 
many  of  Crystofyr  Hansonys  acomptys  as  Jon  Paston  can  fynde 
ther  as  [where]  ye  sent  worde  that  they  were.  Rychard  Harbard 
recomawndyth  hym  to  yow,  and  prayth  yowe  that  ye  wole 
wychesave  to  remembre  the  lettyr  that  scholde  be  sent  fro  my 
Lorde  of  Warwyk  to  a  man  of  hys  beyng  at  Lowystofete  ;  and 
if  it  be  not  sent  to  hym,  that  it  plese  yow  to  do  purvey  that  it 
may  be  sent  to  hym  in  haste,  if  it  maye  be,  as  to  morow  ther 
schall  be  keppyd  a  day  at  Bowunggey  for  Mastyr  Fastolfys 
londys  be  for  the  exchetore,  and  there  schall  be  Wylliam 
Barker  and  Rychard  Call.  Ye  schall  have  knowlage  in  haste 
what  schall  be  do  ther.  And  the  blyssyd  Trinite  have  yow  in 
Hys  kepyng. 

Wretyn  in  haste  at  Norwyche  on  the  Wednysday  next  aftyr 
Seynt  Symond  and  Jwde, 

Be  yowyr  M.  P. 

428 
SIR  GEOFFREY  BOLEYN  TO  JOHN  PASTON,  ESQ.* 

1^0  my  ryght  wurschypfull  Ser^  John  Paston^  Esquyer. 

1460  (?)  T~J  YGHT  wurschypfull  Ser,  after  ryzth  hertely  recomen- 

Mc.  5      1^      dacion,  lyke  it  yow  to  wete  that  my  Maister  Fastolf, 

^     hoose  sowle  God  asoyle,  whan  1  bowth  of  hym  the 

maner  of  Blyclyng,  consideryng  the  gret  payment  that  I  payed 

*  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]     This  letter  was  probably  written  in  the  year  14.60. 
It  is  evident  some  time  had  elapsed  since  Sir  John  FastolPs  death,  but  as  the  subject 
was  one  which  the  writer  wished  to  bring  early  before  Paston's  notice,  it  is  not  likely 
that  he  allowed  much  more  than  a  twelvemonth  to  pass  by. 
246 


HENRY  VI 

therfor,  and  the  yerly  annuyte  duryng  his  lyfe  after  his  entent,  i46o(?) 
was  to  me  gret  charge  ;  and  the  same  tyme,  in  his  place  at  °^c*  5 
Southwerk,  by  his  othe  made  on  his  primer  ther,  grauntted  and 
promitted  to  me  to  have  the  maner  of  Guton,  with  all  the 
apportenaunce  for  a  resonable  pris  afor  ony  other  man.  And, 
Ser,  as  I  understande  ye  be  that  person  that  my  seid  maister, 
consideryng  your  gret  wysdom,  most  trosted  to  have  rewle  and 
dyreccion  of  his  lyfelode  and  goodes, — and,  Ser,  trewly,  yf  I 
hed  ben  nere  unto  yow,  I  wold  have  spoken  to  yow  herof  be 
for  this  tyme  ;  neverthelasse  I  wolde  desyre  and  pray  yow  to 
schewe  me  yowr  goode  wyll  and  favour  in  this  by  halve,  wher 
inne  ye  schall  dyscharge  my  seid  maistres  sowle  of  his  othe  and 
promyse,  and  I  schall  do  yow  servyce  in  that  I  can  or  maye  to 
my  power.  And  of  yowr  goode  wyll  and  favour  herynne  I 
pray  yow  to  late  me  have  wetyng,  and  I  schall  be  redy  to  wayte 
on  yow  at  ony  tyme  and  place  wher  ye  wuU  assyne.  And  owr 
blysyd  Lord  have  yow  in  his  kepyng. — Wret  the  v.  day  of 
Decembre. 

Be  youer  owyn,  Geffrey  Boleyn.^ 


429 
FRIAR  BRACKLEY  TO  [JOHN  PASTON]* 

JHESUS  help,  Marye  mercy,  et  Franciscus  cum  Sanctis  146 1(.^) 
subveniant  defuncto  et  suis  in  tribulationibus.  Amen.  jan.  (?) 
Praecordialissime  in  Jhesu  Christo  praedilecte,  et  omissis 
pro  praesenti  singulis  vestram  amicabilem  benevolentiam  con- 
cernentibus,  propter  quasdam  materias  mihi  a  fidedignis  personis 
nuper  relatas,  &c.,  equitetis  quam  cito  potestis  secure  pro  cor- 
poris vestri  conservatione.      Scitote  quod  commissionarius  J. 

1  The  subscription  and  signature  only  are  in  Boleyn's  hand.  > 

*  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  156.]  This  letter  has  no  date,  except  that  it  was  written  on 
a  Friday  (Jeria  sexto).  It  might,  perhaps,  be  a  little  hazardous  to  date  it  Friday  the 
2nd  January  1461,  just  after  news  of  the  defeat  and  death  of  the  Duke  of  York 
reached  Norfolk  ;  but  this  date  agrees  well  with  the  warning  to  John  Paston  to  ride 
to  London  with  all  haste  for  his  safety,  which  can  hardly  mean  anything  else  than 
that  the  Lancastrian  party,  with  their  Norfolk  supporters  (several  of  whom,  indeed,  are 
expressly  named  here),  were  now  sure  to  bear  rule. 

247 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

146 1  (? )  Heydon,  vester  ac  meus  capitalis  inimicus,  Philippus  Wentworth 
JAN.  (?)  et  J.  Andrw  malignantur  maxime  contra  vos  et  M.  T.  H.^  et  me  et 
alios  vestros.  Et  magister  Clemens  et  ego  sequemur  vos  usque 
Colcestriam,  ibidem  expectando  donee  vos  aliquem  nuncium  de 
London  illuc  miseritis,  et  tunc  ad  vos  veniemus  cum  duobus 
vel  tribus  famulis  nostro  proposito  necessariis,  R.  Botilere 
Matthaeo  Gowh  vel  Johanne  Lore.  Sumus  nempe  equestres 
pessimi,  nee  ascensum  equi  seu  descensum  scientes,  sed  adju- 
torium  ad  minus  duorum  est  nobis  duobus  necessarium,  &c. 
Certe  si  non  esset  aura  tam  contraria,  et  pluvialis  nimis,  quare 
equitare  est  nobis  omnino  necessarium  ;  aliter  vere  melius  pro- 
fecissem  pro  me  in  itinere  per  ambulare  quam  per  equitare. 
W.  Y.'^  judex  cum  omni  consilio  Johanni  Heidon  faciet  contra 
vos  et  me  et  M.  T.  H.  quicquid  potest ;  quare  dicit  Gregorius, 
*  Minus  jacula  feriunt  quae  praevidentur.'  Si  W.  P.,  vester 
germanus,  et  T.  Playtere,  cum  associatis  antecederent,  plura 
percipere  possent  quas  jam  non  cognoscent,  &c.,  utinam  velletis 
hoc  instancia  cordiali  considerare  in  effectu,  Notate  q.  ,' 
literam  a  me  primo  vobis  scriptam  de  pigricia,  &c.,  quanta 
mala  proveniunt  ex  ilia,  &c.,  W.  Rokewode  est  rogatus  a 
W.  Y.  judice  ut  faveat  sibi  et  Tendale  contra  Wyndham  armi- 
gerum  pro  manerio  de  Felbrigge,  cum  pertinenciis,  &c.,  et  tunc 
scietur  utrum  J.  H.  favebit  Wyndham  vel  Judici,  &c.,  cum  ejus 
flatus  olim  calidus,  olimque  frigidus  existat,  et  aliquando  nee 
calidus  nee  frigidus  sed  satis  tepidus.  Sed  oretis  cum  pro- 
pheta,  *  Confundantur  qui  me  persequuntur  et  non  confundar 
ego,  paveant  illi  et  non  paveam  ego  ;  indue  super  eos  diem 
affliccionis  et  duplici  contritione  contere  eos,'  *  domine  Deus. 
Et  Psalmista  ait  '  Averte  mala  inimicis  meis  et  in  veritate  tua 
disperde  illos '  ^  et  sequentia.  Et  [super]  inimicos  meos  de- 
spexit  oculus  meus.  Valete  in  Christo  Jhesu.  Scriptum 
festinantissime,  feria  vj*.  Recommendetis  me  specialissime 
magistro  T.  H.  et  J.  Berneye,  &c. — Vester  ad  vota, 

F.  J.  B. 

'  Magistrum  Thomam  Howys.  »  William  Yclverton. 

'  A  contraction  perhaps  meant  for  quamiam  and  blurred.  If  so,  it  should  have 
been  struck  out  altogether  ;  for  the  words  a  me  primo  (which  are  an  insertion  in  the 
margin)  make  the  sense  definite.  *  Jer.  xvii.  18.  '  P$.  liii.  (Uv.)  5. 

248 


HENRY  VI 

430 

CLEMENT  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTONi 

To  hys  rythe  worchypfwll  broder^  John  Paston. 

RYTHE  reverent  and  worchypfwl  broder,  I  recomawnde  1461 
to  yow,  certyfyyng  yow  that  yowr  letter  was  delyveryd  Jan.  23 
to  me  the  xxiii.  day  of  Januar  abowthe  none  seasson, 
and  Rychard  Calle  rode  in  the  mornyng,  and  therfor  I  brak 
[opened^  yowr  letter,  if  ther  wer  any  aftr  mater  ;  and  I  dede 
Christofer  Hauswan  goo  to  my  Lord  of  Cawnterbure  ^  to  tell 
him,  as  yowr  letter  rehersyd,  and  my  Lord  seyd  he  hadde 
spokyn  with  yowr  man  ther  of  the  day  be  fore,  and  if  the 
Byshop  of  Norwyche  wod  not  doo  so  mwche  for  him,  he  hys 
the  les  behold  to  him.  Notwithstandyng,  he  sayd,  he  wold 
save  yow  harmles  agens  John  Yowng ;  but  and'  ye  do  well 
remember  thys  Lord  have  many  maters  to  thynge  on,  and  if  it 
be  forgeten,  the  harm  is  yowrs,  and  also  if  the  word  [wor/d] 
torn,  John  Yong  will  not  doo  at  hys  prayer. 

And  my  Lord  Fitzwater^  is  ryden  northewards,  and  it  is 
sayd  in  my  Lord  of  Cawnterberys  howse  that  he  hethe  takyn 
ij*"-  [200]  of  Andrew  Troloppys*  men.  And  as  for  Colt,* 
and  Sir  Jamys  Strangwysse,  and  Sir  Thomas  Pykeryng,  they 
be  takyn  or  ellys  dede.  The  comyn  voysse  is  that  they 
be  de  dede.  Hopton*^  and  Hastyngs^  be  with  the  Erie  of 
Marche,  and  wer  no  at  the  fewlde.^  Wat  word  that  ever  he 
have  fro  my  Lords  that  be  here,  it  is  well  doo,  and  best  for 
yow,  to  see  that  the  contre  be  allweys  redy  to  come  bothe  fote 

1  [From  Fenn,  i.  202.]  This  letter  appears  to  have  been  written  after  the  battle 
of  Wakefield,  when  the  victorious  army,  led  on  by  Margaret  of  Anjou,  was  marching 
southvrards.  '  Archbishop  Bourchier. 

5  Sir  John  RadclifF  of  Attleborough,  styled  Lord  Fitzwalter  in  right  of  his  wife, 
only  daughter  and  heiress  of  Walter  Fitzwalter,  seventh  lord.  This  John  was  at  the 
battle  of  Ferrj-bridge  on  the  29th  March  1461,  and  died,  probably  of  his  pounds,  on 
the  6th  April  following. — See  G.  E.  C.'s  Complete  Peerage. 

*  Andrew  TroUope,  whose  desertion  of  the  Duke  of  York  at  Ludlow  in  1459  caused 
the  dispersion  of  the  Yorkist  leaders.  He  was  killed  at  the  battle  of  Towton  in 
March  146 1,  fighting  on  the  Lancastrian  side. 

'»  Thomas  Colt. — Sec  Rolls  0/ Parliament,  v.  348. 

"  Walter  Hopton. — See  Rolls  of  Parliament,  v.  368. 

7  William,  son  of  Sir  Leonard  Hastings. — See  Rolls  0/  Parliament,  ib. 

8  The  battle  of  Wakefield. 

249 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

146 1  men  and  hors  men,  qwen  they  be  sent  for  ;  for  I  have  herd  seyde 
JAN.  23  the  ferthere  Lords  will  be  here  soner  that  men  wen,  I  have 
arde  sayde,  er  iij.  weks  to  an  ende  ;  and  also  that  ye  xwld  come 
with  more  men,  and  clenlier  arayed  than  anoder  man  of  yowr 
cwntre  xwld,  for  it  ly  the  more  up  on  yowr  worchyp,  and 
towcheythe  yow  more  nere  than  odermen  of  that  cwntre,  and 
also  ye  be  mor  had  in  favor  with  my  Lords  here.  In  this  cwntre 
every  man  is  well  wyllyng  to  goo  with  my  Lords  here,  and  I  hope 
God  xall  helpe  hem,  for  the  pepill  in  the  northe  robbe  and  styll, 
and  ben  apoyntyd  to  pill  all  thys  cwntre,  and  gyffe  a  way 
menys  goods  and  lufflods  in  all  the  sowthe  cwntre,  and  that 
wyll  ask  a  myscheffe.  My  Lords  that  ben  here  have  as  moche 
as  they  may  do  to  kep  down  all  thys  cwntre  more  than  iiij.  or  v. 
schers,  for  they  wold  be  up  on  the  men  in  northe,  for  it  ys  for 
the  welle  of  all  the  sowthe. 

I  pray  yow  recomawnde  me  to  my  moder,  and  that  I  prayed 
her  of  her  blyssyng.  I  pray  yow  exscwse  me  to  her  that  I 
wryte  her  no  letter,  for  thys  was  y  now  a  doo.  I  dare  not 
pray  yow  to  recomawnde  me  to  my  swster  yowr  wyfF,  and  the 
masenger  I  trow  be  so  wysse  he  can  not  doyt.  Ye  mwst  pay 
him  for  hys  labor,  for  he  taryd  all  nyt  in  thys  town  for  thys 
letter. 

Wrytyn  the  xxiij.  day  of  Janware  in  haste,  wan  I  was  not 
well  at  hesse.     God  have  [you]  in  Hys  keping. 

By  Clement  Paston,         Yowr  broder. 


THE  PRIOR  OF  BROMHOLM  TO  JOHN  PASTON  > 

Amicabili  magistro  nostro^  Johanni  Paston^  armigero. 

JAN.  31     I    ^UL  reverend  and  worshipful,  after  all  dewe  reverence 

w\        and    recommendacion,    your    pore    Preste    besecheth 

■*-  humble  it  plese  your  good  maystirship  to  understande 

be  this  simple  bylle  that  on  the  Friday  next  after  the  Feste  of 

^  [From  Fenn,  iii.  404.]      As  executor  to  Sir  John  Fastolf,  Paston  must  have 
taken  possession  of  Caister  soon  after  his  death.     The  Duke  of  Norfolk,  however, 
pretended  a  title  to  it,  and,  as  we  shall  find  hereafter,  had  dispossessed  Paston  by  June 
250 


HENRY  VI 

the  Conversion  of  Seynt  Poule  laste  paste  I  was  at  your  place  146 1 
at  Castre  to  a  tolde  yow  what  answer  1  hadde  of  Sir  Thomas  Jan.  31 
Howis,  parson  of  Blofeld  ;  and  in  as  moche  as  ye  wer  not  at 
hoom,  I  tolde  it  to  my  mastras  your  wyfe ;  and  God  thanke 
her  of  her  jentilnes,  she  made  me  grete  cher,  and  mor  over  a 
vysed  me  to  sende  yow  a  bille  ther  of  to  Lundon.  This  was 
his  answer,  whan  I  had  talked  to  hym  as  I  cowde  in  lyke  wyse 
as  ye  averted  me  to  do.  He  answered  a  geyn  in  these  wordes, 
'  Nere  is  my  Icyrtyl,  but  nerre  [nearer^  is  my  smok.'  And  this 
was  his  menyng  that  ye  schulde  be  mor  ner  us  and  tender  to 
us  than  he,  and  that  ye  schulde  rather  owe  us  good  wyl  than 
he,  and  that  we  schulde  labour  rather  to  yowr  maystirship  than 
to  hym ;  and  also  that  good  that  he  had  to  dispose  he  had  be 
sette  it,  and  of  passel  he  tolde  mc  he  had  delyvered  the  Abbot 
of  Langele  fourescor  li.,  wher  of,  as  he  seyd  to  me,  ye  grutched 
and  wer  in  maner  displesed,  not  withstandyng  ye  seyd  a  geyn 
to  hym  ye  shulde  geve  as  moche.  And  he  seyd  to  me  ye 
named  the  places  wher  ;  and  therfor  he  avysed  me  to  labour 
effectualy  to  your  good  maystirship,  for  ye  mych  [might]  helpe 
us^  wele.  For  he  seyd  ye  had  moche  good  of  the  dede  to 
dispose,  what  of  your  fader,  God  blisse  that  sowle,  what  of 
Berney,  and  what  now  of  his  good  Mayster  Fastolfe.  And  as 
for  Sir  John  Fastolfe,  on  hoose  soule  Jesu  have  mercy  !  he  seyd 
to  me  ye  had  of  his  good  four,  four,  and  four  mor  than  he  in 
these  same  termes  with  owte  ony  summe. 

And  after  all  oder  talkyngs  he  tolde  me  he  shulde  be  with 
yow  at  Lundon  hastyly,  and  that  he  wolde  sey  good  worde  to 
yow  to  releve  our  poor  place.  Sir,  I  beseche  bethe  not  dis- 
plesed, for  truly  and  I  woste  to  have  your  hevy  maystership 
therfor,  I  had  lever  it  had  bene  on  thoght.  And  is  this  that 
whan  Sir  Thomas  Howes  and  ye  be  saunne  at  Lundon,  we 
myght  be  so  in  your  good  grace,  that  our  place  myght  be 
broder  to  Langele,  for  that  shulde  glade  us  mor  than  the  com- 
mission that  the  Bysshop  of  Norwich  sente  us  on  Thrusday 

146 1.     This  letter,  dated  on  Saturday  after  the  Feast  of  the  Conversion  of  St.  Paul, 
must  therefore  have  been  written  in  January  146 1,  as  in  1460 — the  only  other  probable 
year — that  feast  (25th  January)  fell  on  Friday,  and  a  letter  written  on  Saturday  after 
the  feast  would  not  have  referred  to  the  Friday  after  the  same  feast  as  a  past  date. 
'  us.    The  word  is  no  in  Fenn's  literal  copy,  which  must  be  a  misprint, 

251 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1 46 1     laste  paste  to  gader  the  dymes,  for  that  is  a  shrewde  labour  for 
JAN.  31    us,  a  grete  coste  and  a  shrewe  juparde. 

Over  mor  that  hy  and  myghty  celestial  Prince  preserve 
yow  body  and  sowle,  and  sende  yow  coumforte  of  the 
Holy  Goost  wele  to  performe  all  your  hertis  desir  in  all 
your  materes  to  his  plesaunce,  and  your  wurship,  and  solace  to 
alle  your  welle  wyllers. 

Wretyn  at  Bromholm,  on  the  Saturday  next  after  the  Feste 
of  the  Conversion  of  Seynt  Poule  laste  paste. 
,  From  your  Preste  and  Bedeman, 

John,  Priour  of  Bromholm. 


MARGARET  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON » 

A  Lettre  to  J.  Pas  ton  y  ar.^from  his  wife} 

MARCH  I  T^LEASE  it  you  to  wytte  that  it  is  lete  me  witte  by  on 
i"^  that  owith  you  good  wyll  that  there  is  leid  awayte  up 
on  you  in  this  cuntre,  yf  ye  come  here  at  large,  to 
bryng  you  to  the  presence  of  syyche  a  Lord  in  the  north  as 
shall  not  be  for  your  ease,  but  to  jopardie  of  your  lyf,  or 
gret  and  importable  losse  of  your  goods.  And  he  that 
hath  take  up  on  hym  this  enterprise  now  was  undr-shirefF 
to  G.  Sayntlowe.  He  hath  gret  favour  herto  by  the  meanes 
of  the  sone  of  William  Baxter  that  lyth  beryed  in  the  Grey 
Freres ;  and,  as  it  is  reported,  the  seid  sone  hath  geve  gret 
sylver  to  the  Lords  in  the  north  to  bryng  the  matier  a  bowte, 
and  now  he  and  alle  his  olde  felaweship  put  owt  their  fynnes, 

*  [From  Fenn,  iii.  412.]  'This  letter,"  says  Fenn,  'has  no  direction,  and  lest  it 
should  be  opened,  the  paper  which  fastens  the  seal  is,  along  the  edge,  marked  with 
lines  by  a  pen,  which  communicate  with  the  latter  {qu.  with  the  Utter  >),  by  which 
means  the  receiver  might  easily  have  discovered  any  attempts  to  have  opened  it,  as  the 
lines  would  not  then  have  exactly  coincided  again.  On  the  back  of  it,  but  in  a  later 
hand,  is  written,  "  A  lettre  to  J.  Paston,  ar.,  from  his  wife." ' 

Fenn  considers,  I  think  with  great  probability,  that  this  letter  was  written  'just 
before  the  important  crisis  that  finished  Henry's  reign,  and  placed  Edward  on  the 
throne,"  when  Margaret  of  Anjou  was  expected  in  London  after  winning  the  second 
battle  of  St.  Albans.     Giles  Saint  Loe  was  sheriff  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk  in  1458. 

'  This  title  is  taken  from  an  endorsement  in  a  later  hand. 
252 


HENRY  VI 

and  arn  ryght  flygge  and  mery,   hopyng  alle  thyng  is  and    146 1 
shalbe  as  they  wole  have  it.     Also  it  is  tolde  me  that  the  fadr   march  i 
of  the  bastard  in  this  cuntre  seid  that  now  shuld  this  shire  be 
made  sewir  for  hym  and  his  heires  hens  forward,  and  for  the 
Baxsteris  heyres  also,  wherby  I  conceyve  they  thynke  that  they 
have  none  enemy  but  you,  &c. 

Wherfor  like  it  you  to  be  the  more  war  of  your  gydyng 
for  your  persones  saufgard,  and  also  that  ye  be  not  to  hasty  to 
come  in  to  this  cuntre  til  ye  here  the  world  more  sewer.  I 
trowe  the  berar  of  this  shall  telle  more  by  mowthe,  as  he  shall 
be  enfourmed  of  the  rewell  in  this  cuntre.  God  have  yow  in 
His  kepyng. 

Wretyn  in  hast,  the   secund  Sunday  of  Lent  by  candel 


light  at  evyn. 


By  yours,  &c.  M. 


433 

JOHN  DAVY  TO  JOHN  PASTON 1 

On  to  my  Maystyr  PastonCy  be  this  lettre  delyveryd. 

RYTH  wurchopful  Sere,  I  recomaund  me  on  to  you. 
And  iff  it  lyke  you  I  have  spokyn  with  Bussard,  and 
demaundyd  hym  iff  he  had  ony  evydens,  dedys,  or 
copyis,  or  ony  other  evydens  of  ony  place  or  off  ony  lyflod 
that  longget  on  to  my  mayster,^  and  seyth,  Nay,  be  is  feyth, 
and  be  is  trowthe,  for,  if  he  hadde,  he  wold  send  hem  on  to 
you  with  a  good  wyl ;  for  he  seyth  it  xud  don  hym  non  ese. 
And,  Ser,  iff  it  plese  you  I  askyd  hym  if  he  knew  ony  evydens 
that  he  had  delyveryd  on  to  William  Wossetyr,  bill,  or  deds,  or 
ony  other  evydens  that  xuld  longgyn  on  to  ony  purchas  or  off 
ony  lyfflod  on  to  my  maystrys,  and  he  seyth,  Nay  trewly  ;  for 
he  seyth  the  last  tyme  that  he  wrot  on  to  William  Wusseter, 

1  [From  Fenn,  iv.  78.]  This  letter  was  written  some  time  after  the  death  of  Sir 
John  Fastolf — not  unlikely,  as  Fenn  imagines,  in  the  reign  of  Edward  iv.  j  but  the 
exact  date  is  immaterial. 

2  Sir  John  Fastolf, 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

it  was  be  iFor  myssomyr,  ^nd  thanne  he  wrot  a  cronekyl  of 
Jerewsalem,  and  the  jornes  that  my  mayster  dede  whyl  he  was 
in  Fraunce  (that  God  on  his  sowle  have  mercy !)  ;  and  he 
seyth  that  this  drow  more  than  xx.  whazerys  [20  quires  ?]  off 
paper,  and  the  wrytyng  delyveryd  on  to  William  Wursseter, 
and  non  other,  ne  knowyth  not  off  non  other  be  is  feyth. 

Be  your  man,  J.  Davy. 


THOMAS  SHOTBOLT  TO  JOHN  PASTON* 

To  my  worshipfull  maisier,  Maister  Paston  of  the  Tempk. 

WORSHIPFULL  Sir,  soo  ye  will  send  a  poUetik 
person  to  Ludgate  in  secrete  wise  to  comune  with 
me,  and  lete  hym  not  in  no  wise  speke  of  you  to 
hove  (?)  youre  good  maistership,  and  a  resonable  remed"  ihall 
ease  you  of  a  gret  part  that  the  criour  cleymeth  of  you  for 
Maister  FastolfFs  detts  of  xiij.  or  xiiij.  yere  at  the  lest,  and  be 
that  perave[ntu]re  of  the  hole  qui  in  uno  est  reus  morbus  \in 

omnibus']  reus Sir,  remembreth  your  worship  if  y 

doc  to  ease  you,  lete  me  not  be  discoveryd,  for  ye  knewe 
not  your  worship  y  wold  not  doo  thus.  What  ever  ye  have 
of  me,  ye  may  sey  it  is  found  in  the  stywardes  boks,  and  y 
know  that  ye  have  desired  favour  to  have  hym  seese  for  your 
worship  that  procur  hym  ageyns  you  ;  whoo  so  shall  kom  to 
me,  he  may  kom  in  Maistre  Nevills  name,  for  with  hym  have 
Y  a  doo.  As  for  your  own  servaunts,  y  ferd  me  lest  they  be 
knowyn  whethir  it  be  servaunt  or  othir,  send  knowleche  of  my 
reword  and  a  bille  under  your  seall  or  your  own  hands,  or 
bothe  on  your  worship  to  have  it  close  that  y  be  not  blamyd 
for  that ;  y  shall  telle  you  her  after.  Wretyn  in  Ludgate. 
Your  servaunt  and  there  prisoner, 

Thomas  Shotbolt. 

*  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  Beyond  the  evident  fact  that  this  letter  was  written 
between  the  death  of  Sir  John  Fastolf  in  1459  and  that  of  John  Paston  in  1466,  there 
is  not  much  cUie  to  the  date. 


254 


HENRY  VI 

435 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 
TV  my  ryth  worcepful  husbonde^  John  Paston. 

RYTH  reverent  and  worcepfful  husbonde,  I  recomande  ^  Year 
me  to  yow,  desyryng  hertely  to  here  of  yowre  welle  uncer- 
fare,  thankyn  yow  for  yowr  letter  and  for  the  thyngys     tain 
that  ye  sent  me  ther  with.     And  towchyn  John  Estcgate,  he 
com  nowdyr  non  sent  hedyr  nowt  zyt ;  wer  for  I  sopose  I 
must  borrowyn  money   in  schorte  time  but  zyf  [unless]  ye 
come  sone  home  ;  for  I  sopose  I  xal  non  have  of  hym,  so 
Godd   helpe    me.      I    have   but   iiij^.   and  I  howhe   nerr   as 
meche  mony  as  com  to  the  for  seyd  some.     I  have  do  yowr 
herrendys  to  my  modyr  and  my  hunckyl  and  as  for  the  feffeys 
of  Stokysby,  my  hunckyll  syth  that  ther  be  no  mo  than  he 
wrpt  to  yow  of  that  he  knowit.     And  also  I  hauwe  delyvyrit 
the  todyr  thyng  that  ye  sent  me  inselyd  in  the  boxe  as  ye 
comaundit  me,  and  the  man  seyt,  that  I  delyverid  it  to,  that  he 
wylle  nowt  of  the  bargeyne  that  ye  sent  hym,  but  sweche 
thynggys  be  do  or  he  come  ther  that  ye  sent  hym  worde  of, 
he  seyth  that  he  wold  nowt  be  noysyd  with  no  sweche  thyngis 
of  that  is,  that  it  wer  do  in  hesse  tyme  for  xx.  marke.     I 
sopose  he  xal  send  yow  word  in  shorte  time  ho  he  wylle  do. 
I  pray  yow  that  ye  wylle  weche  save  to  beyn  for  me  swech 
lacys  OS  I  send  yow  exsaumpyll  of  in  this  letter  and  j.  pesse  of 
blac  lacys ;  as  for  cappys  that  ye  sent  me  for  the  chylderyn 
they  be  to  lytyl  for  hem.     I  pray  yow  bey  hem  feyner  cappys 
and  larger  than  tho  wer.      Also   I    pray  yow  that  ye  wylle 
weche  save  to  recomaunde  me  to  my  fadyr  and  my  modyr  and 
tellyth  heer  that  alle  herr  chyldyrryn  ben  in  gode  hele,  blyssyd 
be  Godd.     Heydonis  wyiFe  had  chyld  on  Sent  Petyr  day.     I 
horde  seyne  that  herr  husband  wille  nowt  of  her,  nerr  of  her 
chyld  that  sche  had  last  nowdyr.     I  herd  seyn  that  he  seyd, 

1  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  199.]     The  date  of  this  letter  it  not  clear,  and  we  place  it 
at  the  end  of  Henry  vi.'s  reign.     It  is  probably  much  earlier. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

Year  zyf  sche  come  in  hesse  precence  to  make  her  exkewce  that  he 
uncer-  xuld  kyt  of  her  nose  to  makyn  her  be  know  wat  sche  is  ;  and 
tain  yf  her  chyld  come  in  hesse  presence,  he  seyd  he  wyld  kyllyn 
he  wolle  nowt  be  intretit  to  have  her  ayun  in  no  wysse,  os  I 
herde  seyn.  The  Holy  Trinite  have  yow  in  Hesse  kepyn  and 
send  yow  helth.  Wretyn  at  Geldiston  on  the  Wedynisday 
nexte  after  Sent  Thomas. — Be  yowris,  M.  Paston* 


A  WHITSUNDAY  SERMON  OF  FRIAR  BRACKLEYi 

F  RENDS,  this  holy  tyme,  as  owr  moder  Holy  Chirch 
maketh  mension,  the  Holy  Gost  came  from  hevyn, 
and  lighted  in  the  disciples  of  Crist,  inflamyng  them 
with  connyng,  and  strenghyng  them  with  grace.  And  be 
cause  the  doctrine  and  prechyng  of  them  shuld  go  thurgh- 
ought  aU  the  werd,  furst  thei  wer  to  be  enfourmed  and  taught 
connyng,  and  to  be  strenth  with  awdacide  and  grace,  and 
than  to  be  endewed  and  yovyn  all  manner  of  langags  that 
thei  myght  prechyn  to  all  maner  of  naciones,  so  that  tho 
naciones  that  thei  preched  to  myght  understond  them,  and 
every  naciones  his  owyn  tonge ;  and  so  thees  Appostilles,  after 
that  thei  wern  enspired  with  the  Holy  Gost,  wher  so  ever  thei 
preached,  were  ther  never  so  many  naciones  present,  ich  nacion 
thought  that  thei  spokyn  in  ther  owyn  langage — etenim  illud 
loquebantur  variis  Unguis  Apostoli. 

Frends,  iij.  thyngs  be  necessary  in  prechyng  to  hym  that 
shall  prechyn  thurgh  the  werd  as  the  Appostell  dede — that  is 
to  sey,  connyng,  boldnesse,  and  langags.  If  thei  had  had 
connyng  and  none  audacite,  but  have  fered  to  have  preched, 
it  shuld  litill  a  profited,  as  we  have  examplles  dayly  at  Cam- 
brige,  exempli   [gratia]^  de  Clerico  quis  studuit  sermonem, 

'  [From  Fcnn,  iii.  392.]  The  original  ms.  of  this  sermon  was  endorsed,  of 
course  in  a  much  later  hand  than  the  document,  '  An  ancient  Whitsunday  sermon 
preached  by  Frier  Brackley  (whose  hand  it  is)  in  the  Friers  Minors  Church,  in 
Norwich.'  Of  this  and  the  remaining  papers  of  Henry  vi.'s  time  the  dates  are  very 
uncertain.  ^  Omitted  in  Fenn's  literal  transcript. 

256 


HENRY  VI 

&c.  And  if  thei  have  bothyn  connyng  and  audacite,  and 
have  none  eloquensye  ner  copiousnesse  of  langage,  so  that  he 
preche  that  his  audiens  is  most  excercised  in,  that  thei  may 
understand  hym,  elles  it  profiteth  not. 

Therfor  thes  holy  Appostill[es],  be  for  thei  shuld  prechyn, 
furst  thei  wer  to  be  confirmed  and  strenghed.  Our  Lord 
strenghed  them  be  under  nemyng/  enformyng,  and  helpyng, 
culpando  ut  in  Evangelium  recumbentibus,  &c.  He  strenghed 
them  with  his  help  and  grace  whan  he  brethed  in  them,  seyng 
'  Accipite  Spiritum  Sanctum  ;  et  quorum  remiseritis  peccata, 
remittuntur  eis,  et  quorum  retinueritis  retenta  sunt,'  ^  &c.  He 
strenghed  them  also  be  his  doctrine  whan  he  seid  *  Petite  et 
accipietis ;  si  quid  petieritis  Patrem  in  nomine  meo,  dabit 
vobis.'  ^  How  that  ye  shuld  prayn  to  God  and  askyn,  I  taught 
you  on  Estern  day.  Therfor  ye  shall  pray  to  God  be  good 
werkyng,  right  full  lebyring,  and  in  good  deds  perseveryng. 

Frends,  ye  owe  for  to  ask  of  God  that  your  Joy  may  ben  a 
full  joy  and  perfight ;  we  may  never  have  a  full  joy  in  this 
werd,  wher  as  ever  among  folwyth  hevynesse.  A  man  joyth 
sumtyme  in  gold  and  sylver,  and  in  gret  substaunce  of  erdly 
gods,  in  bewte  of  women,  but  this  joy  is  not  perfyght — but 
this  joy  is  not  stabill,  but  it  is  mutabill  as  a  shadow  ;  for  he 
that  this  joyth  in  the  bewte  of  his  wyfFe,  it  may  fortune  to 
morwyn  he  shall  folwyn  her  to  chirch  up  on  a  bere.  But  if 
ye  wuU  knowyn  what  is  a  full  and  a  wery  joy,  truly  forgeve- 
nesse  of  synne  and  everlestyng  blisse,  wher  as  is  never  sike- 
nesse,  hunger,  ner  thurst,  ner  no  maner  of  disseas,  but  all  welth, 
joy,  and  prosperite,  &c.  Ther  be  iij.  maner  of  joys,  the  on 
void,  a  nother  half  full,  the  thred  is  a  full  joy.  The  furst  is 
plente  of  werdly  gods,  the  seconde  is  Gostly  grace,  the  threde 
is  everlestyng  blisse.  The  furst  joy,  that  is  affluens  of  tem- 
porall  gods,  is  called  a  veyn  joy,  for  if  a  man  wer  set  at  a  bord 
with  delicate  mets  and  drynks,  and  he  sey  a  cawdron  boyllyng 
a  forn  hym  with  pykke  and  bronston,  in  the  which  he  shuld 
be  throwyn  naked  as  sone  as  he  had  dyned  ;  for  he  shuld  joy 
mych  in  his  deliciose  mets,  it  shuld  be  but  a  veyn  joy. 

Right  so  doth  the  joy  of  a  covetouse  man,  if  he  sey  what 

^  t.e.  reproving.  *  John  xx.  aa,  23.  '  John  xvi.  23,  24. 

VOL.  in. — R  257 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

peyn  his  sowle  shuld  suffre  in  helle  for  the  myskepyn  and 
getyn  of  his  good,  he  shuld  not  joy  in  his  tresore,  ut  in  Libro 
Decalogorum,  '  Quidam  homo  dives,'  &c. 

Semiplenum  gaudium  est  quando  quis  in  praesenti  gaudet 
et  tunc  cogitans  de  futuris  dolet,  ut  in  quodam  libro  Grasco, 
'  Quidam  Rex  Grascise,'  &c.  Her  ye  may  se  but  half  a  joy ; 
how  [who]  shuld  joy  in  this  werd,  if  he  remembred  hym  of  the 
peynes  of  the  toder  werd  ?  *  Non  glorietur  fortis  in  fortitu- 
dine  sua,  nee  sapiens  in  sapientia  sua,  nee  dives  in  divitiis 
suis.'^  De  quibus  dicitur,  qui  confidunt  in  multitudine  diviti- 
arum  suarum,  quasi  oves  in  inferno  positi  sunt.^  *  Qui  glori- 
atur,  in  Domino  glorietur.'  ^  Therfor  lete  us  joy  in  hope  of 
everlestyng  joy  and  blis.  '  Gaudete  quia  nomina  vestra  scripta 
sunt  in  caslo,'*  ut  gaudium  vestrum  sit  plenum.  A  full  joy 
is  in  hevyn.  Et  in  hoc  apparet  quod  magnum  gaudium  est  in 
caelo,  quoniam  ibi  est  gaudium  quod  '  oculus  non  vidit,  nee 
auris  audivit,  et  in  cor  hominis  non  ascendit,  quae  Deus  prae- 
paravit  diligentibus,' ^  et  ideo,  fratres,  variis  linguis  loquens 
[precor]  ut  gaudium  vestrum  sit  plenum,  vel  habeatis  gaudium 
sempiternum. 


437 

THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD  TO  JOHN  PASTON  • 
To  owre  right  Trusty  and  welheloved  John  Paston 

RIGHT  Trusty  and  welbeloved  we  grete  yow  well.  And 
where  as  it  is  not  unknowen  to  you  that  we  wrot  a 
bille  to  Maister  Brakle,  and  yaf  hym  in  comaunde- 
ment  to  delyver  yow  a  bille  indentyd  of  x.  mark  owyng  to 
John  of  Fen,  as  it  apperith  by  a  bille  indentyd  under  the  seall 
of  Robert  Reppis,  jentylman,  wich  by  the  will  of  John  of  Fen 
is  due  un  to  us,  wher  of  the  sayd  Robert  shuld  paye  v.  mark 
by  his  owne  instaunce  at  Lammesse  next  comyng  ;  We  pray 

*  Jer.  ix.  23.  '  Psalm  xlviii.  (xlix.)  6,  14. 

'  I  Cor.  1.  31.  *  Luke  x.  20. 

"  I  Cor.  ii.  9.  •  [Add.  MS.  34,888,  f.  166.] 

258 


HENRY  VI 

yow  that  ye  woU  receyve  the  forsayd  money  for  us  and  delyver 
it  un  to  Maister  Brakle  as  we  trust  yow.  Wretyn  in  owr 
manor  of  Wevcnho  the  xxv''"  day  of  Julij. 

+38 

THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD  TO  JOHN  PASTON» 

To  my  right  trusty  and  right  tvelbeloved  John  Patton. 

Right  trusty  and  right  welbeloved,  I  grete  you  wele.  And  I  am  enfourmed 
that  William  Mathew  of  Norwich,  Bocher,  hath  brought  an  accion  of  dette 
agayn  Nicholas  Hert,  a  tenaunt  of  myn,  berer  hereof,  and  hath  supposid  by  his 
accyon  that  my  said  tenaunt  shuld  ow  hym  Ixxj.  for  his  hire  of  tyme  that  he 
shuld  a  ben  servaunt  to  my  said  tenaunt ;  wher  it  is  said  to  me  for  trouthe  that 
he  was  aprentyce  to  my  said  tenaunt,  and  never  othrwise  with  holde  but  as 
aprentice,  and  owith  no  mony  to  haf  of  hym.  I  send  to  yow  my  said  tenaunt 
to  gif  yow  clere  informacyon  of  the  mater,  and  I  pray  you  that  ye  wole  calle 
the  jurry  before  yow  that  arn  impanellid  betwen  thaym,  and  opne  thaym  the 
mater  at  large  at  myn  instaunce,  and  desire  thaym  to  do  as  concyens  wole,  and 
to  eschue  perjury.  And  the  Trinite  kepe  yow.  If  ye  take  the  mater  in  rule, 
I  pray  therof,  and  wole  be  content. 

Wretyn  at  Wevenho,  the  xxviij.  day  of  Decembr. 

The  Erle  of  Oxenford. 

439 

SIR  JOHN  WINGFIELD  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 

To  my  luelbelovyd  brother ^  John  Paston^  Squier. 

Brother  Paston,  I  recomaunde  me  unto  you,  praying  you  that  ye  take  the 
labour  to  speke  with  Thomas  Ratclef  of  Frammesden  for  the  delyveraunce  of 
part  of  an  hous  v^hich  lythe  in  his  wode  at  Fraumesden,  which  hous  the 
owener  hath  caryed  part  therof  to  Orford,  which  so  departed,  the  remenant 
that  remayneth  ther  in  his  wode  schall  do  hym  lytell  good,  and  yt  schall  hurte 
gretly  the  warkeman  and  the  owener  therof  also,  which  is  my  tenaunt,  and  \i,e. 
if]  the  hous  schuld  be  set  upon  my  ground. 

I  Wright  unto  you  in  this  be  halfe,  be  cause  I  understood  he  woll  be  moche 
avised  by  you,  and  yf  he  do  ony  thynge  at  my  request,  I  schall  do  as  moche 
that  schall  plese  hym ;  and  also  the  pore  man  schall  gef  hym  ij.  nobles  or  xxj. 
rather  than  fayle.  I  pray  you  be  as  good  a  mene  for  hym  as  ye  may  in  this  be 
halfe,  as  my  verry  trust  is  in  you,  and  I  schal  be  redy  at  all  tymes  to  doo  that 

1  [From  Fenn,  iii.  138.]  *  [From  Fenn,  iii.  140.] 

259 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

may  be  to  your  plesur.     I  trust  to  Jesu,  who  have  you  in  His  kepyng,  and 
sende  you  joy  of  all  your  ladyes. 

Wretyn  at  Lederyngham,  the  Tewesday  in  Whisson  weke. 

Your  brother  and  frende, 

WvNGEFELD    J. 

440 

[JOHN  PASTON?]  TO  [RICHARD]  SOUTHWELL  1 

BROTHER  Suthwell,  I  comand  me  to  yow,  sertifiing 
yow  that,  on  Thursday  be  the  morwe,  I  spak  with 
my  cosine  Wichingham  at  London,  where  he  lete 
me  wet  of  the  letter  sent  to  Lee,  wherby  I  conseyve  the 
stedfast  godlordship  and  ladiship  of  my  Lord  and  my  Lady* 
in  this  mater,  &c.,  whech  gevith  cause  to  all  her  servaunts 
to  trost  verily  in  them  and  to  do  hem  trew  servise.  I  lete 
yow  wete  that  the  seid  Wychyngham,  when  I  departid  from 
hym,  had  knowleche  that  Jane  Boys  shuld  that  nyght  be  come 
to  London,  and  he  put  in  a  bylle  to  the  Lordis  for  to  have 
delyverauns  of  hyr  and  to  have  hese  adversarys  arestid.  And 
this  nyght  at  Norwiche  was  told  me  newe  tydyngges  that  she 
shuld  on  Thursday  after  my  departyng  a  be  before  the  Lordis 
and  there  asaide  untrewly  of  her  selfF,  as  the  berer  hereof  shal 
informe  yow  if  ye  know  it  not  before  ;  of  wheche  tydyngges, 
if  they  be  trew,  I  am  sory  for  her  sake,  and  also  I  fere  that 
her  frendys  schuld  sewe  the  more  feynteiy,  wheche  Godde 
defende.  For  her  seyng  untrewly  of  her  selff  may  hurt  the 
mater  in  no  man  but  her  selfF;  and  thow  she  wol  mescheve 
her  selff,  it  wer  gret  pete  but  if  the  mater  were  laborid  forth, 
not  for  her  sake,  but  for  the  worchepe  of  the  estatys  and 

1  [From  Fasten  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  is  printed  from  a  corrected  draft  in  a 
hand  which  may  be  that  of  Margaret  Paston,  writing  in  her  husband's  name.  The 
beginning  may  perhaps  refer  to  the  impending  marriage  of  Richard  Southwell  with 
Amy,  daughter  of  Sir  Edmund  Wichingham,  which  took  place,  according  to  Blome- 
field  (x.  274),  about  the  beginning  of  Edward  iv.'s  reign.  From  the  mention  made 
of  Osbert  Mundford,  however,  the  letter  cannot  be  later  than  1460.  The  ravishment 
of  Jane  Boys,  as  here  related,  corresponds  so  closely  with  that  of  Dame  Joan  Beau- 
mont, of  which  notice  will  be  found  in  the  Rolls  of  Pari.,  v.  269,  that  we  might 
almost  surmise  the  same  person  is  spoken  of;  but  this  can  hardly  be. 

'  Probably  the  Duke  and  Duchess  of  Norfolk. 

260 


HENRY  VI 

Other  that  have  laboryd  therin,  and  in  ponyshing  of  the  gret 
oryble  dede.  Wherfore  I  send  yow  dyvers  articlis  in  a  bill 
closid  herin,  wheche  preve  that  she  was  raveshid  ayens  hyr 
wel,  what  so  ever  she  sey. 

Thes  be  provis  that  Jane  Boys  was  ravischig  [^sic]  ageyn  her 
wil,  and  not  ber  awn  assent. 

One  is  that  she,  the  tyme  of  her  takyng,  whan  she  was  set 
upon  her  hors,  she  revyled  Lancasterother  ^  and  callid  hym 
knave  and  wept,  and  kryid  owte  upon  hym  pitewly  to  her, 
and  seid  as  shrewdly  to  hym  as  coud  come  to  her  mende,  and 
fel  doune  of  her  hors  unto  that  she  was  bound,  and  callid  him 
fals  t[r]aytor  that  browth  her  the  rabbettes. 

Item,  whan  she  was  bounde  she  callid  upon  her  modyer, 
wheche  folwyd  her  as  far  as  she  myght  on  her  feet,  and  whan 
the  seid  Jane  sey  she  myght  goo  no  ferther,  she  kryid  to  her 
modyer  and  seid  that  what  so  ever  fel  of  her,  she  shuld  never 
be  weddyd  to  that  knave,  to  deye  for  it. 

Item,  be  the  weye,  at  Shraggarys  hous  in  Kokely  Cley, 
and  at  Brychehamwell,  and  in  all  other  places  wher  she  myght 
see  any  people,  she  kryid  owte  upon  hym,  and  lete  people 
wete  whos  dowtyr  she  was,  and  how  she  was  raveshid  ayens 
her  wyll,  desyeryng  the  people  to  folwe  her  and  reskew  her. 

Item,  Lancasterotherys  prest  of  the  Egle  in  Lyncolne  shire, 
wheche  shrofF  her,  seid  that  she  told  hym  in  confession  that 
she  wold  never  be  weddyd  to  hym,  to  deye  for  it ;  and  the 
same  prest  seid  he  wold  not  wedde  hem  togedyr  for  M'7/. 

Item,  she  sent  divers  tokenes  of  massage  to  Sothwell  be 
Robert  Inglose,  wheche  previth  welle  at  that  tyme  she  lovyd 
not  Lancasterother. 

Item,  a  man  of  the  master  of  Carbrokes  come  dyvers 
tymes  in  the  weke  before  she  was  raveshid  to  Wychynghams 
hous,  and  inquerid  of  her  mayde  whedyr  her  mastras  was  in- 
suerid  to  Sothwell  or  nay,  the  wheche  prevyth  well  that  Lan- 
casterother was  not  sure  of  her  godwill  ne  knew  not  of  her 

1  According  to  Blomeficld  (viii.  299)  Joan  (or  Jane),  one  of  the  four  daughters 
of  Edmund  dc  Wichingham,  married,  first,  Robert  Longstrather,  and  afterwards 
Robert  Boys  of  Honing,  in  Norfolk. 

261 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

counseyl,  for  if  he  had,  he  ne  nedid  not  to  have  sent  no 
spyes. 

Whech  seen,  I  avyse  yow  to  move  my  Lord  and  my  Lady 
to  do  in  this  mater  as  affettualy  as  they  have  do  before,  for 
this  mater  touchyth  hem,  consideryng  that  they  have  begonne ; 
and  dowt  not,  what  so  ever  falle  of  the  v  oman,  well  or  evel, 
my  Lord  and  my  Lady  shal  have  worchep  of  the  mater  if  it  be 
wel  laborid,  and  also  ye  shall  have  avayl  therof  and  the  advers 
parte  chall  gret  trobil. 

Also  it  were  necessarie  that  Wychyngham  were  sent  to  and 
cofortyd  in  hese  seute,  and  that  he  avysid  hym  of  seche  articlis 
and  preves  of  the  mater  as  I  have  sent  to  yow  and  put  hem  in 
writing,  but  not  to  disclose  non  tho  preves  to  non  creature 
unto  that  tyme  that  it  fortune  the  mater  to  be  tried  be 
enquest,  or  other  wyse  take  end,  but  avyse  hym  for  to  seye  to 
the  Lords  and  all  (?)  in  generall  termes  that  what  so 

ever  Lancasterother  or  hese  douter  seyn  nowh,  it  shal  be  wel 
prevyd  she  was  reveshid  ayens  her  wyll ;  and  let  him  desire  of 
the  Lordis  that  his  dowter  mith  be  in  his  kepyng,  and  at  large 
fro  Lancasterother  un  tylle  the  mater  were  duly  examynd.  I 
wold  this  mater  sped  the  bety[r]  be  cause  my  Lady  spoke  so 
feythefully  to  me  therin,  and  that  mevyth  me  to  wryte  to  yow 
this  long  symple  lettyr  of  myn  intent.  ^  [Also  wher  ye  be  in- 
formyd  that  vj.  men  of  Osbern  Monforthes  shuld  a  be  at  the 
seid  raveshing,  I  certifie  yow  verily  it  was  not  soo  ;  for  Osbern 
Mondeford  wol  do  in  the  mater  all  that  ever  he  can  or  may 
to  help  to  punisse  the  doer,  and  desirith  to  know  the  grownd 
of  that  tale,  of  whech  I  pray  send  me  word  if  and  what  ye  will 
ellis,]     God  kepe  yow. 

Wret  at  Norwich  the  Soneday  nex  before  the  fest  of  Sent 
Margret. 

Item,  [if]  she  had  be  of  hes  assent  affter  the  time  she  was 
in  hes  possescion  in  Lynkoln  shire,  hit  had  be  bett — ^ 

^  This  passage  is  crossed  out  in  the  MS. 
'  Sentence  left  incomplete. 


262 


HENRY  VI 

441-448 

ABSTRACTS  1 

The  following  letters  and  papers  cannot  be  referred  to  any 
certain  date,  though  probably  of  the  reign  of  Henry  vi. 
Being  of  very  little  interest,  they  are  noticed  as  briefly  as 
possible  merely  for  the  sake  of  completeness. 

441. — W.,  Bishop  of  Norwich,  to  William  Yelverton,  steward  of  his  lands, 
and  John  Intwode,  his  surveyor. — Desires  them  to  inquire  at  Bacton  into  the 
demand  made  by  Richard  Blake  in  a  bill  enclosed,  and  minister  to  him  as  right 
and  law  will. — London,  8  Nov. 

442. — Memoranda  of  John  Bemey  against  Simon  Corbrygg,  who  obtained 
lands  by  a  charter  forged  by  Broke,  a  scrivener,  late  owner  of  Weggs,  and  has 
injured  Berney  for  eight  years  past  or  more  in  the  possession  of  the  manor 
ofCleyhall. 

443. — William  Jenney  to  John  Paston,  Esq. — Has  been  shown  by  his 
neighbour,  Robert  Tylyard,  a  piece  of  evidence  of  certain  *  lyfelode '  he  has  in 
Whetacre,  by  which  it  appears  that  Lord  Wellys  should  have  no  ward  of  the 
same,  unless  he  can  produce  contrary  evidence.  As  Paston  is  of  my  Lord's 
council,  and  has  the  rule  of  his  *  lyflode '  in  this  country,  desires  he  will  write 
to  him  that  the  matter  be  indifferently  seen. — Theberton,  13  Dec. 

444. — J.  Burton  to  Margaret  Paston. — Sends  hogsheads  of  wine  by 
Plumton  the  carter,  etc.  Desires  her  to  send  the  money  to  *  dawn '  William 
Dallyng. — ^Dated,  *  Wednesday  after  I  parted  from  you.' 

445. — W.  Cotyng'  to  Margaret  Paston. — Has  received  to-day  /^g  :  o :  2 
from  Simon  Miller,  her  farmer  at  Tichwell,  for  Midsummer  payment.  Sends 
it  by  Roger,  servant  of  the  Parson  of  Thorp.  Simon  has  paid  five  shillings  for 
finding  a  man  to  the  King  for  Tichwell,  and  but  for  me  you  would  have  paid  a 
mark.  Charges  for  repairs.  As  for  your  lining  cloth,  my  brother  is  still 
beyond  the  sea. — Brankaster,  3 1  July. 

'  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.I 

*  He  was  rector  of  Swainsthorp,  to  which  he  was  presented  Iw  William  Paston 
and  John  Dam  in  1444,  ^^^  which  he  exchanged  for  the  living  of  Tichwell  in  1450. 
— Blomefield,  v.  63. 

263 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

446. to . — My  father  and  I  bought  the  reversion  of  Olton, 

etc.,  of  Ralph  Lampet  and  Alejfander  Kyngyston.  They  have  now  made  a 
new  sale  of  it  to  William  Jenney  without  giving  notice  to  me  or  my  father. 
We  ask  your  mediation  with  Jenney,  whom  we  trusted  most. 

447. — Eliz.  C[lere]  to  John  Paston. — Concerning  a  pasture  in  the  town  of 
N.  overgrown  with  whins.  Wants  advice  as  to  the  conditions  of  the  right 
of  pasturage.     Your  mother  prays  you  to  think  on  Horwellebery. — 25  May. 

448. — Memoranda  to  inquire: — (i)  If  William  Cofe  were  enfeoffed  in 
Rothnall  Hall  ?  (  2  )  If  Tylerd  knew  William  Cofe  of  Northcofe  1  before  the 
day  of  his  death  two  years,  one  year,  half  a  year,  or  a  quarter,  etc. ;  what  seal 
he  used?  (3)  If  Tylerd  were  not  about  him,  to  common  with  Gernyngham 
and  such  as  were  about  him.  (4)  Item,  in  case  it  can  be  understood  that  he 
made  none  estate,  *  than  lete  Wodesyde  goo  to  Robert  Prymer  in  his  owyn 
name,  saying  that  John  P.  (Paston)  is  his  good  mayster  in  hys  mater,*  etc. 


>  William  Cove  of  North  Cove,  Suffolk.— 5^^  Suckling's  Hist,  of  Suffolk,  i.  48. 


264 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

Edward  IV 
449 

JOHN  PASTON  THE  YOUNGEST  TO  ^ 


1RECOMAND  me  to  yow,  and  lete  yow  wete  that  not-  1461 
wythstandyng  tydinggs  come  down,  as  ye  know,  that 
pepill  shuld  not  come  up  tyll  thei  were  sent  fore,  but  to 
be  redy  at  all  tymes  ;  this  notwithstandyng,  most  pepill  owt 
of  this  cuntre  have  take  wages,  seying  thei  woll  goo  up  to 
London ;  but  thei  have  no  capteyn,  ner  rewler  assigned  be  the 
commissioners  to  awayte  upon,  and  so  thei  stragyll  abowte  be 
them  self,  and  be  lyklynes  are  not  like  to  come  at  London 
half  of  them.  And  men  that  come  from  London  sey,  there 
have  not  passid  Thetford,  not  passyng  CCCC.  ;  and  yet  the 
townes  and  the  cuntere  that  have  waged  hem  shall  thynk  thei 
be  discharged,  and  thcrfore  if  this  Lords  above  wayte  aftyr 
more  pepill  in  this  cuntre,  be  lyklynes  it  woll  not  be  easy  to 
get  with  owt  a  newe  comission  and  warnyng.  And  yet  it  woll 
be  thought  ryght  straunge  of  hem  that  have  waged  pepill 
to  wage  any  more,  for  every  towne  hath  waged  and  sent  firth, 
and  are  redy  to  send  forth,  as  many  as  thei  ded  whan  the 

*  [From  Fenn,  i.  226.]  According  to  Fenn,  this  letter  is  in  the  original  '  without 
either  date,  name,  or  direction,'  the  contents  only  proving  it  to  have  been  written  by 
*  one  of  John  Paston's  sons.'  Nevertheless,  in  a  very  misleading  way,  the  signature 
'  John  Paston '  is  inserted  at  the  foot  of  the  right-hand  copy,  with  a  reference  to  a 
facsimile  of  the  signature  of  John  Paston  the  youngest.  There  is  every  appearance, 
however,  that  John  Paston  the  youngest  really  was  the  writer,  and  that  the  date  is, 
as  Fenn  supposes,  just  after  the  accession  of  Edward  iv. 

265 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1 46 1  Kyng  sent  for  hem  be  fore  the  feld  at  Lodlowe  ;^  and  thei  that 
ar  not  go,  be  goyng  in  the  same  forme. 

Item,  ther  was  shrewd  rewle  toward  in  this  cuntre,  for  ther 
was  a  certeyn  person  forth  wyth  after  the  jurney  at  Wakefeld, 
gadered  felaship  to  have  mo[r]dered  John  Damme,  as  is  seyd ; 
and  also  ther  is  at  the  Castell  of  Rysing,  and  in  other  ij.  plases, 
made  gret  gaderyng  of  pepill,  and  hyryng  of  barneys,  and  it  is 
wele  undyrstand  they  be  not  to  the  Kyng  ward,  but  rather  the 
contrary,  and  for  to  robbe.  Wherfore  my  fadyr  is  in  a  dowte, 
whedir  he  shall  send  my  brother  up  or  not,  for  he  wold 
have  his  owne  men  abowte  hym,  if  nede  were  here  ;  but  not- 
wythstandyng,  he  wyll  send  up  Dawbeney,  his  spere  and  bowes 
with  hym,  as  Stapilton  and  Calthrop  or  other  men  of  worship 
of  this  cuntre  agree  to  doo.  Wherfore  demene  yow  in  doyng 
of  yowr  erandes  ther  aftyr,  and  if  ye  shall  bryng  any  masage 
from  the  Lords,  take  writyng,  for  Darcorts  massage  is  not 
verely  beleved  be  cause  he  browt  no  wrytyng. 

Item,  this  cuntre  wold  fayne  take  these  fals  shrewes  that 
are  of  an  oppynion  contrary  to  the  Kyng  and  his  Counsell,  if 
they  had  no  auctorite  from  the  Kyng  to  do  so. 

Item,  my  brother  is  redy[n]  to  Yarmowth  for  to  lette 
brybers  that  wold  a  robbed  a  ship  undyr  color  of  my  Lord  of 
Warwyk,  and  longe  nothyng  to  hem  ward. 


450 

W.  PASTON  AND  THOMAS  PLAYTERS  TO 
JOHN  PASTON* 

To  my  maister^  John  Paston^  in  hast. 

APRIL  4     I  VLEASE  you  to  knowe  and  wete  of  suche  tydyngs  as  my 

i""^     Lady  of  York  hath  by  a  lettre  of  credens,  under  the 

signe  manuel  of  oure  Soverayn   Lord  King  Edward, 

whiche  lettre  cam  un  to  oure  sayd  Lady  this  same  day,  Esterne 

*  The  battle  of  Mortimer's  Cross,  near  Ludlow,  gained  by  Edward  iv.  before  he 
was  king,  on  the  3rd  February  146 1. 

*  [From  Fenn,  i.  216.]     The  date  of  this  letter  is  sufficiently  apparent  from  the 
contents. 

266 


EDWARD  IV 

Evyn,^  at  xj.  clok,  and  was  sene  and  red  by  me,  William    1461 
Paston.  AP^iL  4 

Fyrst,  oure  Soverayn  Lord  hath  wonne  the  feld,^  and 
uppon  the  Munday  ^  next  after  Palmesunday,  he  was  resseved 
in  to  York  with  gret  solempnyte  and  processyons.  And  the 
Mair  and  Comons  of  the  said  cite  mad  ther  menys  to  have 
grace  be  Lord  Montagu  *  and  Lord  Barenars,*^  whiche  be  for 
the  Kyngs  coming  in  to  the  said  cite  desyred  hym  of  grace 
for  the  said  cite,  whiche  graunted  hem  grace.  On  the  Kyngs 
parte  is  slayn  Lord  Fitz  Water,  and  Lord  Scrop  sore  hurt  ; 
John  Stafford,  Home  of  Kent  ben  ded  ;  and  Umfrey  Stafford, 
William  Hastyngs  mad  knyghts  with  other  ;  Blont  is  knygth, 
&c. 

Un  the  contrary  part  is  ded  Lord  Clyfford,  Lord  Nevyle, 
Lord  Welles,  Lord  Wyllouby,  Antony  Lord  Scales,  Lord 
Harry,  and  be  supposyng  the  Erie  of  Northumberland, 
Andrew  Trollop,  with  many  other  gentyll  and  comons  to  the 
nomber  of  xx.""'-  [20,000]. 

Item,  Kyng  Harry,  the  Qwen,  the  Prince,  Duke  of 
Somerset,  Duke  of  Exeter,  Lord  Roos,  be  fledde  in  to  Scotte- 
land,  and  they  be  chased  and  folwed,  &c.  We  send  no  er 
[no  sooner]  un  to  you  be  cause  we  had  non  certynges  tyl  now  ; 
for  un  to  this  day  London  was  as  sory  cite  as  myght.  And 
because  Spordauns  had  no  certeyn  tydyngs,  we  thought  ye 
schuld  take  them  a  worthe  tyl  more  certayn. 

Item,  Thorp  Waterfeld  is  yeldyn,  as  Spordauns  can  telle 
you.  And  Jesu  spede  you.  We  pray  you  that  this  tydyngs 
my  moder  may  knowe. 

Be  your  Broder,  W.  Paston. 

T.  Playters. 

*  On  a  piece  of  paper  pinned  to  the  above  letter,*  says  Fenn,  *  is  a  list  of  the 

1  4th  April. 

*  The  battle  of  Towton,  fought  on  Palm  Sunday,  the  29th  March  146 1. 

*  30th  March. 

*  John  Nevill,  Lord  Montague,  brother  of  the  Earl  of  Warwick.  ♦ 
'  Sir  John  Bourchier,  Lord  Bemers. 


267 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1 46 1     names  of  the  noblemen  and  knights,  and  the  number  of  soldiers  slain  at  the 
APRIL  4     above  battle  of  Towton,  as  follow : — * 


Comes  Northumbrias. 

Comes  Devon. 

Dominus  de  Beamunde. 

Dominus  de  Clifford. 

Dominus  de  Nevyll. 

Dominus  de  Dacre. 
JDominus   Henricus    de 
\     Bokyngham. 

Dominus  de  Well[es]. 

{Dominus      de       Scales 
Antony  Revers. 
Dominus  de  Wellugby, 

{Dominus     de      Malley 
Radulfus  Bigot  Miles. 


Millites. 
Sir  RaufFGray. 
Sir  Ric.  Jeney. 
Sir  Harry  Bekingham. 
Sir  Andrew  Trollop. 
With     xxviij 
nomberd   by 


'"'•    [28,000] 
Harralds. 


THOMAS  PLAYTERS  TO  MASTER  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 

To  my  maister^  John  Paston^  Esquyer. 

APRIL  18  ir\LEASE  your  Maisterchep  to  wete,  that  I  have  spokyn 
wT^  with  Essex,  in  the  matter  that  ye  wete  of,  and  fynd 
him  be  his  talkyng  wel  dysposed,  not  withstandyng  he 
woU  not  falle  to  no  conclusyon  to  engrose  up  the  mater,  tyll 
the  chef  baron  ^  be  com  to  London,  and  that  he  be  mad  privy 
to  the  mater,  which  we  loke  after  this  same  secund  Saterday ' 
after  Esterne  ;  and  as  for  Notyngham  he  is  not  yet  comyn  to 
London. 

Item,  as  for  tydyng,  it  is  noysed  and  told  for  trouth  of 
men  of  worchip,  and  other,  that  the  Erie  of  Wylchyr  is  taken, 

•  [From  Fcnn,  i.  222.]     This  letter  relates  mainly  to  occurrences  just  after  the 
battle  of  Towton  in  April  1461. 

*  Peter  Ardcme,  '  i8th  April  in  1461. 

268 


EDWARD  IV 

Doctor  Morton,^  and  Doctor  Makerell,  and  be  brougth  to  the    1461 
kyng  at  York.     Maister  William  also  spak  with  a  man  that  apwl  18 
sey  hem. 

Item,  sir,  I  herd  of  Sir  John  Borceter  and  Christofer 
Hanson,  that  Herry  the  sext  is  in  a  place  in  York  schire  is 
calle  Coroumbr  ;  suche  a  name  it  hath,  or  muche  lyke.  And 
there  is  sege  leyde  abowte,  and  dyvers  squyers  of  the  Erie  of 
Northumbrelands,  and  gadered  them  to  geder,  a  v.  or  vj.""'' 
\_five  or  six  thousand'^  men,  to  byger  [^i^icker]  with  the  sege,  that 
in  the  mene  while  Herry  the  sexte  myght  have  ben  stole  a 
way  at  a  lytyll  posterne  on  the  bak  syde ;  at  whiche  byker 
ben  slayn  iij."*'-  [3000]  men  of  the  North.  Sir  Robert  of  Ocle 
and  Conyrs  leyth  the  sege  on  our  syde,  and  thei  it  is  that  have 
do  this  acte.  Sum  say  the  Qwen,  Somerset  and  the  Prince 
schuld  be  there.  Item,  it  is  talked  now  for  trouthe,  the  Erie 
of  Northumberland  is  ded.  Item,  the  Erie  of  Devenshire  is 
ded  justely.^  Item,  my  Lord  Chaunceler  is  to  York.  Item, 
the  King  and  the  Lords  com  not  here  before  Whitsontyde,  as 
it  is  sayde.  Item,  sir,  sone  uppon  the  chef  baron  comyng  I 
schall  send  you  a  lettre,  with  Godds  grace,  who  preserve  you, 
and  have  you  in  His  blyssed  kepyng.  Your, 

Thomas  Playters. 

At  Cokermouthe  was  the  Erie  of  Wylchire  taken,  and 
these  other  Doctors.  Item,  som  men  talke  Lord  Wellys, 
Lord  Wyllouby,  and  Skales  ben  on  lyve.  Item,  Sir  Robert 
Veer  is  slayn  in  Cornewayll,  as  it  is  tok  for  trouthe. 

*  Afterwards  Cardinal,  the  Minister  of  Henry  vii. 

'  He  was  beheaded  at  York  after  the  battle  of  Towton. 


269 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

452 

THOMAS  PLAYTERS  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  my  rigth  reverent  and  worchipfull  John  PastoHy  Esquyer^ 
or  to  my  maytres  his  wyf. 

1 46 1  A  FTER  my  most  special  recommendacion,  lyke  your 
MAY  /jk  maisterchip  wete  that  the  mater  for  you  and  my 
JL  ^  maistrez,  your  moder,  ayens  Powtrell  and  Tanfeld 
hath  ben  called  uppon  as  dylygently  and  as  hastely  this  terme 
as  it  mygth  be  ;  and  al  way  dayes  y^y^n  hem  by  the  Court  to 
answer,  and  than  thei  toke  smale  excepcions,  and  trifeled  forth 
the  Court,  and  al  wey  excused  them  by  cause  the  bylle  is  long, 
and  his  councell  had  no  leysur  to  se  it.  And  they  prayed 
heryng  of  the  testament  of  my  maister  your  fader,'  and  therof 
made  a  nother  mater,  and  argued  it  fo  putte  hem  fro  it,  be 
cause  they  had  emparled  to  us  by  fore  ;  and  than  Hyllyng- 
worth  to  dryve  it  over  this  terme,  allegged  varians  be  twyx 
the  bille  and  the  testament  that  John  Damme  was  named  in 
the  testament  John  Dawme,  in  whiche  cas  now  the  Court 
must  have  sigth  of  the  said  testament.  Where  fore  ye  must 
send  it  up  the  begynnyng  of  the  next  terme,  or  elles  we  schall 
have  no  sped  in  the  mater.  And  therfor,  Maistres,  if  my 
maister  be  not  cum  hom,  and  ye  have  not  the  sayd  testament 
in  your  kepyng,  that  than  it  plese  you  to  speke  un  to  my 
maistres,  your  moder  in  lawe,'  for  the  seyd  testament,  that  I 
mygth  redely  have  it  here,  and  that  it  be  sealed  in  a  box,  and 
sent  to  me,  and  I  schall  kepe  it  safe,  with  Godds  grace. 

1  [From  Fenn,  iv.  2.]  The  reference  to  the  Earl  of  Wiltshire's  head  having  been 
set  on  London  Bridge  shows  this  letter  to  have  been  written  not  very  long  after  the 
battle  of  Towton.  The  exact  djfte  is  probably  about  the  beginning  of  May,  as  it 
appears,  by  the  Privy  Seal  dates  in  the  Record  Office,  that  Edward  iv.  was  at 
Middleham  on  the  6th  of  that  month  on  his  way  southwards,  having  gone  on  to 
Durham  and  Newcastle  after  the  victory. 

*  William  Paston,  the  Judge,  who  died  in  1444. 

'  Agnes  Paston,  the  widow  of  the  Judge. 

270 


EDWARD  IV 

And  as  for  tytyngs,  in  good  feyth  we  have  non,  seve  the     1461- 
Erie  of  Wylchir  ^  is  hed  is  sette  on  London  Brigge.  ""^^ 

Mayster  William  is  reden  horn  to  my  Maistrs  Ponyngs  ; 
and  as  for  Maister  Ponyngs  hymself,  sche  letteth  as  thow  sche 
wyst  not  where  he  were.  A  gentylman  that  kam  fro  York 
told  me  my  maister  was  heyl  and  mery,  and  rode  to  mete  the 
Kyng  comyng  fro  Mydlam  Castell. 

Berwyk  ^  is  full  of  Scottys,  and  we  loke  be  lyklyhod  after 
anoyther  batayll  now  be  twyx  Skotts  and  us. 

And  I  pray  Jesu  have  you  in  His  blyssed  kepyng. 

Your,  Thomas  Playter. 


453 

JOHN  SMYTH  TO  JOHN  PASTON,  SENIOR » 

To  hys  worschepfull  mayster^  John  Paston  the  Eldest ,  Esquier. 

RYGHT  worschepfuU  and  my  synguler  mayster,  I  re-  may  10 
comaunde  me  to  you.  If  it  plese  your  maysterschepe 
to  wete,  the  cause  of  my  wryghtyng  is  thys.  I  have 
understande  be  comunyng  with  othyr  credybell  men  that  many 
and  the  more  part  of  the  feffeys  of  the  landys  late  Sir  John 
Fastolf,  and  also  thei  that  pretende  to  ben  executores  of  the 
seyd  Sir  John,  purpose  them  to  sell  to  my  Lord  of  Suffolk, 
thow  he  recuver  not  be  tayle,  or  to  othyr "  myghty  lordys,  a 
gret  part  of  the  landys  of  the  seyd  Sir  John,  to  the  entent  that 
ye  schal  not  have  them ;  upon  wech  sale  thei  wole  make  astate 
and  entre  and  put  you  to  your  accion,  and  thow  ye  recuver  in 
the  lawe,  as  I  am  enformyd,  ye  schall  recuver  of  hard  and  but 

•  James  Butler,  Earl  of  Wiltshire  and  Ormond. 

*  Henry  vi.  and  his  Queen  after  the  battle  escaped  to  Berwick,  and  from  thence 
retired  to  Edinburgh. — F. 

3  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  was  evidently  written  in  the  beginning 
of  Edward  iv.'s  reign;  and  as  it  appears  by  No.  458  that  Paston  had  already  been 
dispossessed  of  Caister,  not  indeed  by  the  Duke  of  Suffolk,  but  by  the  Duke  of 
Norfolk,  as  early  as  the  5th  June  146 1,  we  may  presume  that  this  letter,  dated  in 
May,  belongs  to  that  year.  The  margin  of  the  letter  is  slightly  mutilated,  but  the 
words  which  are  lost  are  obvious,  and  have  been  supplied  in  brackets. 

271 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1 46 1  a  part,  the  qwech  schuld  be  dere  of  the  sute.  Qwer  it  semyth 
»*AY  10  to  me,  yt  wer  necessarye  to  you  to  se  remedy  for  thys  mater, 
and  eyther  putt  it  in  award  or  elles  that  my  Lord  of  Wa[rwick], 
the  qwech  is  your  good  Lord,  may  meve  that  the  Kyng,  or 
hym  sylf,  or  my  Lord  Chawmbyrleyn  or  sum  othyr  wytty 
me[n],  may  take  a  rewle  betwexe  you  and  your  adversaryes  ; 
for  yf  ye  may  not  holde  the  forseyd  landys  ther  schal  growe 
[great]  losse  bothe  to  the  dede  and  to  you,  and  men  schal  putt 
you  in  defawte  therof ;  your  frendys  schal  be  sory.  It  is 
[better  to]  bere  a  lyttell  losse  than  a  gret  rebuke.  Your  mater 
hangyth  longe  in  the  audyens.  Yf  ye  hadde  ther  your  entent 
your  ad[versaries  should]  cese  the  rather.  I  beleve  veryly  yf 
ye  do  your  part  to  have  pees,  God  of  Hys  gret  grace  schal 
graunte  it  to  you,  the  q[wech  give]  you  the  speryte  of  wysdam 
to  gyde  you  on  to  Hys  pleser.     Amen. 

We  desyre  to  se  your  maysterschep  in   Norffolk  ;    your 
pr[esens]  there  be  necessarye. 

From  Norwych  the  x.  day  of  May. 

Your  clerk,  [John]  Smyth. 

454 

THOMAS  DENYES  TO  JOHN  PASTON ' 
To. my  maister  Paston. 

I  LOWLY  recomaund  me  to  your  maistership,  thankyng 
you  as  a  pouer  man  may  do  his  maister  for  soccuryng 
my  wyf,  which  I  wete  wele  is  wo  begone  ;  praying  you 
for  love  of  our  Lord  Jhesu  Criste  to  take  no  displesir  though 
I  not  sent  ne  wrote  to  you  herbeforn  in  this  troble  that  I  haf. 
For  parde  ye  may  conceyve  that  I  was  besy  j  nogh  to  shifFt 
my  self  til  now.  Truly  the  noise  cam  sodeynly  and  I  was 
withy nne  the  walks  of  your  Cite,  God  sauf  the  governour 
therof,  for  he  was  besy  to  trappe  me,  more  besy  than  he  wole 
be  a  know,  et  per  fenestram  in  sporta  dimissus  sum  per  murum^  et 

>  [Add.  MS.  34,888,  f.  175.]     The  date  of  this  letter  it  probably  a  little  earlier 
than  that  of  the  next  (No.  455). 
272 


EDWARD  IV 

sic  efiugi  manus  ejus  ;  but  he  shal  abye,  by  God,  if  I  Jyf,  for  1461 
serchyng  myn  house.  And,  Sir,  as  for  the  fals  noise,  sauf  april  (?) 
your  reverence,  that  he  leyth  on  me  and  on  tweyn  servauntz 
of  myn,  he  lyeth  falsly,  your  reverence  savid ;  for  I  may  haf 
an  C.  persones  notable  and  thrifty,  whan  tyme  comyth,  that 
wole  prove  and  make  good  by  every  meane,  that  my  servauntz, 
which  he  nameth,  wer  that  same  our  at  Brisle  which  is  thens 
more  than  xvj.  myle,  and  that  the  same  our  and  the  same  day 
and  a  greet  space  bothe  beforn  and  afftir.  But  ever  I  besech 
your  maistership  of  contynuaunce,  and  that  ye  like  to  do  my 
wif  help  and  comfort  in  hir  dissese ;  for  if  she  wer  not,  God 
knowith,  I  shuld  soone  shyfft.  And  truly  I  haf  no  thought 
ne  sorwe  but  for  hir.  Wherfore  I  beseche  you  lowly  for  His 
love  that  all  socourith  and  susteyneth  to  be  good  maister  and 
comfort  to  her.  It  shal  not  be  long  to  but  that  I  shall  send 
to  hir  to  labour  hir  to  other  place,  as  for  ony  thyng  touchyng 
me  ellis  but  that.  I  pray  you  also,  if  the  boy  that  is  hurt  dey, 
to  meve  your  tenauntz  in  that  hundrid  wher  he  was  bete  to  do 
for  me  and  myn  ;  ellis  can  I  not  desire  ne  write  at  this  tyme 
for  lak  of  remembraunce,  for  I  am  not  yet  myn  own  man. 
Besechyng  yow  alwey  of  good  maistership,  for  AJmyghty  God 
knowith  that  the  mater  was  falsly  begunne  on  me  and  usurie 
it  is  and  acursid,  so  wold  our  Lord  I  never  had  knowyn  it ; 
but  sith  I  delid  therwith  I  myght  never  reche  it  to  handle 
the  mater  to  trouth  or  reson.  Wherfore  I  am  compellid  to 
do  therwith  unresonably.  But,  gentill  Sir,  socour  my  wif,  and 
be  not  displesid  with  me,  and  than  shal  I  do  wele  with  Goddis 
mercy,  Who  AJmyghty  preserve  yow  for  His  mercy.  Wretyn 
onavised,  &c. 

I  pray  you  socour  my  wif,  for  she  is  wedow  yet  for  me, 
and  shal  be  til  more  is  done,  sith  I  se  that  neyther  plee,  trety 
ne  werre  may  make  my  peas ;  for  I  leve  hir  undir  your  pro- 
teccion  til  I  write  to  hir  to  go  thens,  which  shal  be  hastily,  I 
suppose,  praying  you  to  be  alwey  hir  good  maister,  for  I 
purpose  not  to  se  hir  of  a  while,  though  she  remeve.  Wrete 
with  sorwfull  hert,  &c. — Yours,  Den  yes. 


VOL.  III. — s  273 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

455 

THOMAS  DENYES  TO  JOHN  PASTON  i 

To  my  Maister  Paston. 

146 1      I  '%  IGHT  wurshipfuU  and  myn  especiall  good  maister,  I 
MAY        r^      recomaund  me  to  yow  with  all  my  service,  besechyng 
you  hertily,  at  the  reverence  of  God,  to  helpe  me  now 
in  the  grettest  extremite  that  I  cam  at  sith  my  greet  trobil  with 
Ingham.^     It  is  not  oute  of  your  remembraunce  how  Twyer 
in  NorfF[olk]  vexith  me   bothe  by  noise  and  serchyng  myn 
house  for  me,  so  that  theer  I  can  not  be  in  quyete  ;  and  all 
that,  I  am  verily  acerteyned,  is  by  Heydens  crafft.     And  heer 
in  the  Kyngs  house  annenst  Howard/  wher  I  had  hopid  to  a' 
relevid  myself,  I  am  supplanted  and  cast  oute  from  hym  by  a 
clamour  of  all  his  servaunts  at  onys,  and  ne  wer  oonly  that  his 
disposicion  acordyth  not  to  my  pouer  conceyte,  which  maketh 
me  to  gif  lesse  force,  be  cause  I  desire  not  to  dele  ther  [where] 
bribery  is  like  to  be  usid,  ellis  by  my  trouth  this  unhappy 
unkyndenes  wold  I  trow  a'  killed  me.     I  pray  yow,  at  the 
reverence  of  Jesu  Criste,  to  enfourme  my  Lord  of  Warwyk  of 
me.     Parde  I  haf  do  hym  service  ;  I  was  with  hym  at  Nor- 
thampton,  that  all  men   knew  ;    and   now   agayn   at    Seynt 
Albones,  that  knowth  James  RatclifF;    and  ther  lost  I  xx//. 
wurth  horse,  herneys,  and  mony,  and  was  hurte  in  diverse 
places.     I  pray  yow  to  gete  me  his  good  Lordship,  and  that  I 
may  be  toward  hym  in  Norffolk  in  his  Courts  holdyng,  or  ellis, 
if  ony  thyng  he  haf  to  do ;  and  that  ye  wole  gete  me  a  letter 
to  Twyer  to  late  me  to  sit  in  rest.     For  now  if  I  made  any 

^  [From  Fenn,  iv.  10.]  The  writer  of  this  letter  speaks  of  having  served  with  the 
Earl  of  Warwick  at  the  battle  of  Northampton  in  July  1460,  and  again  at  the  second 
battle  of  St.  Albans  in  February  1461.  We  know  from  later  letters  that  he  was 
murdered  in  the  beginning  of  July  following.  As  he  dates  from  York,  and  speaks 
of  being  'here  in  the  King's  house,'  the  date  would  appear  to  be  about  the  loth  of 
May,  on  which  day  we  find  by  the  dates  of  the  Privy  Seals  that  Edward  iv.  was 
at  York. 

*  See  vol.  ii.  Nos.  238,  239. 

'  Sir  John  Howard,  who  was  sheriiF  of  Norfolk  this  year. 

274 


EDWARD  IV 

felaship  agayn  Twyer,  I  can  haf  no  colour  now  the  Shirref  and     146 1 
I  be  oute,  so  I  must  kepe  me  aparte,  which  I  am  lothe  to  do,      may 
be  God,  if  I  myght  better  do. 

I  besech  yow  to  send  me  your  intent  by  the  next  man  that 
come  from  yow.  I  shuld  a'  come  to  zow,  but,  so  help  me 
God,  my  purs  may  no  ferther.  The  Holy  Trinite  preserve 
yow. 

Wretyn  hastily  at  York,  &c. 

Your  to  his  power.  Den  yes. 


456 

THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD  TO  JOHN  PASTON 1 

To  owre  right  trusty  and  welbeloved  John  Fast 071. 
Th'erl  of  Oxenford. 

RIGHT  trusty  and  welbeloved,  we  grete  yow  well,  and  may  31 
pray  yow,  as  oure  trust  is  in  yow,  that  if  ye  or  any  of 
yowre  men  here  that  Howard  purposith  hym  to  make 
any  aray  at  owre  manor  of  Wynche,  that  ye  woll  lete  John 
Keche,  owre  kepere  ther  of,  haue  wetyng  by  tymes,  for  and  he 
have  warnyng  he  will  kepe  it  in  to  the  tyme  that  we  come 
thedir,  with  the  grace  of  God,  wiche  have  yow  in  His  kepyng. 
Wretyn  in  owre  manor  of  Wyvynho  the  last  day  of  May. 

Oxenford. 

1  [Douce  MS.  393,  f.  85.]  The  date  of  this  letter  may,  with  great  probability,  be 
attributed  to  the  year  1461.  It  certainly  cannot  be  later,  as  the  writer  was  executed 
for  high  treason  in  February  1462.  He  was  found  to  have  been  corresponding  with 
Margaret  of  Anjou  for  the  restoration  of  Henry  vi.,  but  the  discovery  must  have  been 
much  later  than  May  1461.  Sir  John  Howard,  who,  for  his  services  to  the  House  of 
York,  was  afterwards  made  Duke  of  Norfolk,  appears  to  have  had  great  influence  just 
after  the  accession  of  Edward  iv,,  which  he  used  in  a  very  overbearing  manner  ;  and 
we  have  already  seen,  by  the  last  letter,  that  the  Earl  of  Oxford's  servant,  Thomas 
Denyes,  was  at  this  very  time  suffering  much  persecution  at  his  hands. 


275 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

457 

THOMAS  PLAYTER  TO  JOHN  PASTON  i 

'To  my  right  good  maister^  John  Paston^  in  all  hast. 

1 46 1         AFTER   my  most  special  recommendacion,    please   your 

ZJk        maisterchip  wete,  the  Kyng,  be  cause  of  the  sege  a 

A.    A.     boute  Carelylle,  chaunged  his  day  of  Coronacion  to 

be  upon  the  Sunday^  nexst  after  Seynt  John  Baptyste,   so 

the'ntent  to  spede  hym  northward  in  all  hast ;  and  how  be  it, 

blyssed  be  God,  that  he  hath  now  good  tydynggs,  that  Lord 

Mountagu   hath  broken  the  sege,  and  slayn  of  Scotts   yj.""'- 

[6000]  and  ij.  knyghes,  whereof  Lord  Cliffords  brother  is  one, 

yet  not  wythstandyng  he  wol  be  crowned  the  sayd  Sunday. 

And  John  Jeney  enformed  me,  and  as  I  have  verely  lerned 

sethen,  ye  ar  inbylled  to  be  made  knygth  at  this  Coronacion.' 

Wheder  ye  have  understandyng  before  hand,  I  wot  not ;  but 

and  it  lyke  you  to  take  the  worchip  uppon  you,  consyderyng 

the  comfortable  tytynggs  afore  seyd,  and  for  the  gladnesse  and 

plesour  of  al  your  welwyllers,  and  to  the  pyne  and  dyscomfort 

of  all  your  ille  wyllers,  it  were  tyme  your  gere  necessarye  on 

that  by  halfe  were  purveyd  fore,  and  also  ye  had  nede  higth 

you  to  London,  for  as  I  conceyve  the  knygthes  schuld  be  made 

uppon  the  Saterday  by  for  the  Coronacion ;  and  as  moche  as 

may  be  purveyed  for  you  in  secrete  wyse  wythouten  cost  I 

schall  by  speke  for  you,  if  nede  be,  ayens  your  corny ng,  in 

trust  of  the  best  ;    neverthelesse,  if  ye  be  dysposed,  ye  had 

nede  send  a  man  by  fore  in  all  hast,  that  no  thing  be  to  seke. 

William    Calthorp    is    inbylled,   and  Yelvertoun    is    inbylled, 

whiche  caused  Markham  ;    because  Yelverton  loked  to  have 

ben  chef  juge,  and  Markham  thynketh  to  plese  hym  thus. 

And  as  for  the  mater  ayens  Poutrell,  we  can  no  farther  pro- 

*  [From  Fcnn,  i.  230.]  It  is  evident  from  the  contents  that  this  letter  %vas  written 
some  time  before  the  coronation  of  Edward  iv.  '  28th  June. 

3  John  Paston  was  not  made  knight  at  the  coronation  of  Edward  iv.,but  his  eldest 
son  was  made  knight,  probably  as  a  substitute  for  himself,  within  two  years  after. 

276 


EDWARD  IV 

cede,  tyl  we  have  my  maister  your  faders  testament.     I  sent     1461 
my  maistres  a  letter  for  it.     No  more,  but  I  pray  Al  myghty 
Jesu  have  you  in  His  kepyng. 

Your,  Thomas  Playter. 


458 

RICHARD  CALLE  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  my  right  reverent  worschipfull  master ^ 
my  Master  John  Pas  ton. 

RIGHT  reverent  and  worschipfull  master,  I  lowly  re-  june5 
comande  me  unto  your  good  masterschip.  Plesith 
you  to  witte  that  I  have  ben  at  Framelyngham,  and 
spake  Ric  Sothwell  to  hafe  hes  advice  in  this  mater  ;  wherin  he 
wolde  geve  me  but  litell  councell,  and  seide  ze  were  straungely 
disposed,  for  ye  trusted  no  man,  and  had  moche  langage,  weche 
the  berer  herof  schal  enforme  your  masterschip. 

And  as  for  the  letters,  they  were  delivered  my  Lorde  ^  at 
the  Logge,  but  I  cowde  not  speke  with  hese  Lordeschip.  And 
suche  tyme  as  they  were  delyvered  Fitz  William  whas  there, 
weche  is  now  keper  of  Castre  ;  and  what  tyme  as  my  Lorde 
had  sene  the  lettres,  he  comaunded  hym  to  avoide,  and  so  he 
did.  And  thanne  my  Lorde  sent  for  Sothwell.  And  in  the 
meene  tyme  my  Lorde  sent  a  man  to  me,  and  axed  me  where 
ye  were,  and  I  tolde  hem  ye  were  with  the  Kyng  ;  and  so  he 
sent  me  worde  that  an  answere  schulde  be  made  be  Sothwel  to 
the  King,  seyng  that  ii.  or  iij.  eyers  [heirs']  had  ben  with  my 
Lorde,  and  shewed  her  [i.e.  their]  evidence,  and  delyvered  it 
to  my  Lorde,  seyng  they  have  had  gret  wrong,  besechyng  my 
Lorde  that  it  myght  be  reformed.  Wherfor  he  comaunded  me 
that  I  shulde  go  horn,  for  other  answer  cowde  I  non  have.  So 
I  aboude  uppon  Sothwel  to  a'  know  my  Lordes  answer  to  the 

*  [From  Fenn,  iv.  6.]     The  date  of  this  letter,  like  that  of  the  last,  is  shown  by  a 
reference  to  the  approaching  coronation  of  Edward  iv. 

'  The  Duke  of  Norfolk,  who  appears  by  this  time  to  have  taken  possession  of 
Caister,  and  appointed  a  keeper  for  it. 

277 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1461  Kyng  ;  weche  answere  Sothwel  tolde  me  was,  that  he  writeth  to 
JUNE  5  (-he  Kyng  that  certeine  points  in  your  lettres  be  untrew,  and 
that  he  schal  prove  suche  tyme  as  he  cometh  befor  the  Kyng, 
besechyng  the  Kyng  to  take  it  to  no  displesur ;  for  he  is 
advised  to  kepe  it  still  unto  the  tyme  that  he  hath  spaken  with 
his  Highnesse,  for  he  trusteth  to  God  to  schewe  suche  evidence 
to  the  Kyng  and  to  the  Lords,  that  he  schulde  have  best  right 
and  titill  therto  ;  and  so  he  sent  a  man  forthe  to  the  Kyng 
this  day.  It  were  right  wele  don  ye  awayted  upon  hes  man 
comyng,  that  ye  myght  knowe  the  redy  entent  of  my  Lordes 
writyng. 

Berthelmew  Elysse  hathe  ben  with  my  Lorde,  and  made  a 
relesse  to  my  Lord  ;  and  Sir  Will  Chamberleine  was  ther  ij. 
dayes  afore  I  come  thirder,  I  can  thynke  for  the  sam  mater. 
And  Thomas  Fastolf  whas  there  the  same  tyme  that  I  was 
ther  ;  and  as  I  am  enformed,  they  have  delyvered  my  Lorde 
serteine  evidence.  Wherfore  me  semeth  it  were  right  wele 
don,  savyng  your  better  advice,  to  com  horn  and  sele  up  your 
evidence,  and  have  hem  with  you  to  London,  to  prove  his  titill 
noght.  Ther  be  but  ii.  or  iij.  men  with  in  the  place,  and  if  ye 
thynke  it  best  to  do  it,  send  word,  and  I  suppose  a  remedy 
schal  be  had. 

Also  I  here  no  word  of  Master  William,  nor  of  the  writts 
for  the  Parlament.  Also  it  is  tolde  here  that  Tudenham  ^  and 
Heydon  have  a  pardon  of  the  Kyng,  and  that  they  schal  come 
up  to  London  with  the  Lady  of  Suffolk  to  the  Coronacion. 
Also  as  for  the  letter  that  ye  sent  to  Thomas  Wyngfeld,  I  have 
it  still,  for  he  is  at  London.  Some  men  sey  he  meved  my  Lord 
for  to  cntre,  and  some  sey  Fitz  William  is  in  dcfaute.  So  I 
can  see  ther  is  but  fewe  goode.  Also  my  master  Sir  Thomas 
Howys  schol  send  a  letter  to  the  person  ye  wote  of,  for  to 
deliver  you  the  gere  at  London  the  next  week.  My  right 
wourschipfuU  and  reverent  master,  Almyghti  God  preserve 
you. 

Wreten  at  Norweche,  on  the  morwe  after  Corpus  Christi 
Day. 

Your  pore  servant  and  bedman,  R.  C. 

*  Sir  Thomas  Tuddenham  was  beheaded  in  February  following. 
278 


EDWARD  IV 
459 

ROBERT  LETHUM  TO  JOHN  PASTON* 

A  tres  reverent  Sire^  John  Paston,  Esquier^  demourauni 
ou  lostell  le  Roy  soit  d[onne']. 

RIGHT  worshipfull  sir,  I  recomaund  me  to  you.  And,  i^^l 
sir,  yesterday  I  resceived  of  you  a  lettre  from  oure  ^^^  '9 
sovereign  lord  the  Kyng  directe  to  John  Fulman, 
dyvers  othir,  and  me,  by  the  quych,  for  certeyn  causes  that 
meved  hym,  and  for  the  well  and  save  gard  of  his  person  and 
this  his  realme,  he  desired  we  chuld  fynd  men  for  kepyng  of 
the  see.  I  said  to  you  that  I  hade  beyn  dyvers  tymes  spoled 
and  robbed,  as  ye  have  herd,  and  also  gretely  vexed  and  sued 
to  me  \iny\  unportab[l]e  [charges]  ;  ^  nevir  the  les,  to  my  pouer, 
with  my  body  and  my  gode,  I  chall  be  redy  to  do  hym  servyce  in 
resistyng  his  enmyse  and  rebelles.  Also  I  said  I  dwelled  uppon 
the  cost  of  the  see  here,  and  be  langage  hit  were  more  necessarc 
to  with  hold  men  here  than  take  men  from  hit.  The  said  the 
Kyng  hade  wreton  to  dyvers  persones  here  quych  hade  promysed 
men,  queruppon  I  promysed  a  man,  quych  chall  be  redy  at  such 
tyme  I  have  knowelege  quere  the  shippyng  chall  be,  to  waite 
uppon  yow,  or  quane  the  Kyng  comaundes.  I  write  to  you  of 
my  promyse  as  ye  comaund  me,  and  pray  you  I  may  have  a 
copy  of  the  said  lettre.  And  I  pray  Godd  kepe  you.  Wrete 
at  Plumsted  on  the  Fest  of  Seynt  Gervaise  and  Prothase.' 

Your,  RoBT.  Lethum, 

1  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  As  we  find  by  the  last  letter  that  John  Paston  was 
with  the  King  in  the  beginning  of  June  1461,  this  may  with  great  probability  be 
attributed  to  the  same  year.  *  Omitted  in  MS.  '  ijth  June. 


279 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


460 

JAMES  GRESHAM  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  my  right  worshipfull  maister^  John  Paston^  at 
Heylesdon  in  Norffolk^  in  hast, 

1 46 1  A  FTER  due  recomendacion  hadde ;  please  it  your 
JUNB2I  /-I  Maistership  to  witte,  that  as  for  Plaiter  he  shall 
excuse  the  writte  of  the  parlement,  &c.  As  touch- 
yng  my  maister  Howard,^  I  cannot  yet  speke  with  hym,  ne 
with  Moungomerye  ^  nether.  But  as  for  the  day  of  Corona- 
cion  of  the  Kyng,  it  shall  be  certeynly  the  Moneday  next 
after  Mydsomer,  and  it  is  told  me  that  ye  among  other  ar 
named  to  be  made  knyght  atte  Coronacion,  &c. 

Item,  it  is  seid  that  the  Coronacion  do,  the  Kyng  wole  in 
to  the  north  part  forthwith  ;  and  therfor  shall  not  the  parle- 
ment holde,  but  writtes  shall  goo  in  to  every  shire  to  gyve 
them,  that  ar  chosyn  knyghtes  of  the  shire,  day  after  Michel- 
messe ;  this  is  told  me  by  suyche  as  arn  right  credible. 
Maister  Brakle  shall  preche  at  Poules  on  Sunday  next 
comyng  as  he  tolde  me,  and  he  told  me,  that  for  cause 
Childermesse  day^  fal  on  the  Sunday,  the  Coronacion  shall 
on  the  Moneday,  &c. 

Wretyn  in  hast  at  London,  the  Sunday  next  tofore 
Mydsomer, 

Your  right  pouere  servant, 

James  Gresham. 

^  [From  Fenn,  i,  232.]  Like  Nos.  4.57  and  458,  this  letter  refers  to  the  approach- 
ing coronation  of  Edward  IV. 

*  Sir  John  Howard.  ^  Sir  Thomas  Montgomery. 

*  Childermas,  or  Holy  Innocents'  Day,  the  28th  of  December,  fell  on  Sunday  in 
the  year  1460.  The  day  of  the  week  on  which  it  fell  used  to  be  considered  ominous  or 
unlucky  during  the  whole  ensuing  year.  This  superstition  seems  to  have  continued 
as  late  as  the  beginning  of  the  eighteenth  century,  and  is  alluded  to  by  Addison  in  the 
seventh  number  of  the  Spectator.  It  is  not  true,  however,  that  Edward's  coronation  was 
put  off  till  Monday.  It  took  place  on  the  Sunday  which  had  been  originally  appointed 
tor  it,  but  the  processions  and  pageantry  were  deferred  till  next  day.  The  following 
is  the  account  of  the  matter  given  in  a  contemporary  chronicle  in  the  Cottonian  ms., 
Vitellius,  A.  xvi : — 

*  And  upon  the  mom,  Sunday,  which  was  St.  Peter's  Even,  and  the  28th  day  of 
280 


EDWARD  IV 


461 

CLEMENT  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 

To  my  rythe  worchypfull  hroder^  John  Paston^  be  thys 
delyveryd  in  hast. 

BRODER,  I  recomawnde  me  to  zow,  desyeryng  to  here  1461 
of  yowre  welfare,  the  qwyche  I  pray  God  mayntene.  June  26 
Plesse  yow  to  wette  that  I  have  sent  my  moder  a 
letter  for  mony  for  my  swster  ;  ^  and  if  ze  wyll  agre  that  I 
may  have  xx'7/.  [^20],  I  xall  zeve  zow  acowmpts  ther  of,  and 
ze  xall  be  payyd  azen  of  the  obligacyon  that  my  moder  hathe, 
or  ellys  I  xall  take  a  swerte  of  my  suster.  I  wysse  obligacion 
mwste  nedes  be  swyd,  and  a  doseyn  accions  more  in  her  name, 
and  sche  doo  well  thys  terme ;  and  it  wyll  be  doo  with  in 
fowertenyut.  The  Cowntas  of  Northumberlond  ^  and  Robarde 
Fenus^  ocupie  all  her  lond,  and  that  is  a  gret  myscheffe.  I 
prey  zow  spe[ke]  to  my  moder  her  of,  and  lat  me  have  a 
awnswer  within  this  sevenyut.  Also,  broder,  Wyndham  is 
come  to  town,  and  he  seyd  to  me  he  wyll  goo  gett  hym  a 
mayster,  and  me  thowte  by  hym  he  wold  be  in  the  Kynges 
servise,  and  he  saythe  that  he  wyll  have  Felbryg  azen  or 
Myhelmes,  or  ther  shal  be  v.*"-  [500]  heds  broke  ther  fore. 
Brodere,  I  pray  zow  delyver  the  mony  that  I  xwld  have  in  to 
swm  prior  of  swm  abbey  to  swm  mayster  of  swm  colage  to  be 

June,  he  was  crowned  at  Westminster  with  great  solemnity  of  bishops  and  other 
temporal  lords.  And  upon  the  mom  after,  the  King  went  crowned  again  in  West- 
minster Abbey,  in  the  worship  of  God  and  St.  Peter.  And  upon  the  next  mom  he 
went  also  crowned  in  St.  Paul's  in  the  worship  of  God  and  St.  Paul ;  and  there  the 
angel  came  down  and  censed  him.  At  which  time  was  as  great  a  multitude  of  people 
in  Paul's  as  ever  was  seen  afore  in  any  days.' 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  Elizabeth  Paston,  who,  as  we  have  seen  (No.  374), 
had  been  married  to  Robert  Poynings  by  the  beginning  of  the  year  1459,  became  his 
widow  in  1461,  her  husband  having  been  killed  in  the  second  battle  of  St.  Albans  on 
the  1 7th  February.  It  would  appear  by  this  letter  that  she  was  immediately  after  dis- 
possessed of  her  husband's  lands  by  Eleanor,  Countess  of  Northumberland,  who  was 
Baroness  Poynings  in  her  own  right. 

■'  Elizabeth  Paston,  now  widow  of  Robert  Poynings. 

^  Eleanor,  widow  of  Henry  Percy,  third  Earl,  who  was  slain  at  Towton  in  1461. 

*  Fenyt. 

281 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1 46 1     delyveryd  qwan  I  can  espy  ony  londe  to  be  porchasyd.     I 
JUNE  26  pray  zow  send  me  word  wyder  ze  wyll  doo  thus  or  no.     No 
more,  but  owre  Lord  have  zow  in  Hys  kepyng.     Wrytyn  on 
Fryday  nexst  after  Seynt  John  is  day. 
By  zour  broder, 

Clement  Paston, 


462 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  my  right  worchepfull  hoshond^  John  Paston^  be  this 
letter  deliveryd  in  hast. 

JUNE  I  ^  IGHT  worchepfull  hosbond,  I  recommand  me  to  you. 
rv  Please  you  to  wete  that  thys  day  in  the  mornyng  the 
parson  of  Snoryng  came  to  Thomas  Deiiys  and  fechyd 
hym  owt  of  hys  hows,  and  beryth  hym  a  hand,^  that  he  shuld 
a  mad  byllys  agayns  Twyer  and  hym,  and  hathe  a  leed  hym 
ferthe  with  hem.  Hys  wyf  hathe  no  knowlege  of  it.  Ferther 
more  the  seid  parson  seythe  that  the  seyd  Thomas  Denys 
shuld  a  take  sowdyors  owt  of  hys  felachep  whan  he  went  to 
Seynt  Albons;'  that  hys  a  nother  of  hys  compleynts.  Item, 
anothyr  of  hys  compleynts  ys,  a  beryth  the  seyd  Thomas  a 
hand,^  that  he  had  awey  a  hors  of  John  Coppyng  of  Bryslee, 
and  a  nother  of  Kyng  of  Donham,  the  wyche  hors  were  stole 
be  the  seyd  ij.  personys.  Wher  for  the  seyd  Thomas  toke 
hem  as  a  comyshaner  and  delyveryd  hem  to  the  exchetor, 
Frances  Costard,  and  one  of  them  he  bowt  of  the  seyd 
Fraunces.     And  the  seyd  parson  hathe  a  wey  the  seyd  hors, 

*  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  appears  from  internal  evidence  to  have 
been  written  some  time  after  the  second  battle  of  St.  Albans,  which  was  fought  in 
February  1461,  and  before  the  murder  of  Thomas  Denys  in  July  following.  But  to 
all  appearance  it  was  not  very  long  before  the  latter  date.  The  MS.  is  mutilated,  and 
a  few  words  are  lost  in  eight  consecutive  lines. 

*  i.e.  accuses  him.     Set  vol.  ii.  p.  110,  Note. 

'  Thomas  Denys  was  at  the  second  battle  of  St.  Albans  in  February  146 1.  5^^ 
No.  455. 

282 


EDWARD  IV 

and  seyth  that  he  wolle  the  seyd  thevys  shuld  be  recompenst  146 1 
be  Thomas  Denys.  Thys  I  am  enformyd  of  all  thesse  maters  June 
be  hys  wyfFe,  and  sche  prayythe  yow  in  the  reverence  of  God 
ye  wolle  be  hyr  good  malster,  and  helpe  that  hyr  hosbond  may 
have  sume  remedy  be  your  labor  in  thys  mater,  [for  she] 
seythe  syn  that  hyr  hosbond  ys  the  Kyngs  ofFycer,  that  they 
owt  to  spar  hym  the  rather.     But  they  that  hathe  hym  take  no 

told  me  that   they  hope  to  have  a  newe 

chonge  in  hast. 

Item,  Pers  that  was  with  my  unkyll  Barney  ^  sent  you  a 

l[etter] er  desyryng  to  have  your   good 

masterchep,  and  he  woll  fyynd  sufficient  suerte  ^  for  hym  for  to 

com whan  som  ever  ye  woll  require  hym. 

r  good  feyth  it  ys  told  me  hys  leggs  ar  all 

[Send]  me  word,  encas  the  suerte  be  sufficient,  in  what  sum  ye 

woll  have  hem  bownd  for  hy te  in  bayle. 

Item,  it  ys  told  me  that  ther  be  many  Freynche  shyppys  of  se 

a   geyns   Yamothe,   a[nd t]hey   woll    do 

harme  on  the  coste.  I  pray  yow  hertely  that  ye  woll  send 
me  word  in  hast  howe  that  ye  do  with  my  [Lord]  of  Norffi^lk, 
and  with  your  adversaryys.  Item,  I  have  do  purveyed  in  thys 
wareyn  xj.**-  [eleven  score"]  rabets  and  sent  up  be  the  berer 
herof.  The  blyssyd  Trinite  have  yow  in  Hys  kepyng,  and 
send  yow  the  better  of  all  your  adversariis,  and  good  sped 
in  all  your  maters.  Wretyn  in  hast,  the  same  day  that  ye 
departyd  hens. 

Item,  I  pray  yow  that  ye  wolle  remembre  my  unkyll 
Barneys  mater  tochyng  the  executyng  of  his  wylle,  and  how 
ye  wolle  that  we  be  demenyd  for  kepyng  of  hys  yerday,  and 
that  it  lekyth  you  to  send  me  word  be  Mr.  John  Smy[th]. 

^  John  Beraey.  *  See  Letter  424. 


283 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


463 

THOMAS  DENYES  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  1 

To  my  right  noble  and  wurshipfull  mastresse^  my  Mastresse 
Pastony  or  to  fVilliam  Paston  if  she  be  absent. 

1 46 1  TTJ  IGHT  noble  and  wurshipfull  mastresse,  I  recomaund 
JULY  rC  me  to  yow  with  my  pouer  servise.  And  for  so  moche 
as  I  here  no  thyng  of  my  maister  your  husbonds 
comyng  hastly  home, — and  though  he  cam  or  come  not,  it 
were  expedient  that  the  Kyng  were  infourmed  of  the  de- 
menyng  of  the  shire, — therfore  I  send  to  yow  a  testymonyall, 
which  is  made  by  a  greet  assent  of  greet  multitude  of  comons, 
to  send  to  the  Kyng.  I  pray  you  for  the  good  spede  therof 
that  in  all  hast  possible  ye  like  to  send  it  to  my  said  maister, 
if  he  be  with  the  Kyng ;  ellis  fynde  the  meane  to  send  it  to 
the  Kyng,  thogh  my  maister  be  thens ;  beside  forthe  that  ye 
vouchsauf  to  late  diligent  labour  be  made  to  a  sufficient  nombir 
to  assele  for  my  Maister  Paston  allonc,  for  if  bothe  holde  not, 
I  wolde  oon  helde. 

I  pray  yow  that  it  lyke  you  to  send  for  my  Maister 
William  Paston,  and  shew  hym  all  thys,  and  that  it  were 
hastid ;  for  on  the  adversaire  parte  Judas  slepith  not. 

Berney  promised  to  a'  sent,  but  for  our  Lords  love  trust 
not  that;  for  I  se  his  slouthe  and  sely  labour,  which  is  no 
labour.     And  I  wold  ful  fayn  speke  with  yow,  &c. 

My  maister  your  husbond  wole  peraventure  blame  us  all, 
if  this  mater  be  not  applied ;  for  he  may  not  of  reson  do  so 
largely  heryn  by  his  myght,  be  cause  he  is  elyted,  as  the 

*  [From  Fenn,  iv.  18.]  This  letter  speaks  of  the  county  of  Norfolk  as  being  in 
an  unquiet  state,  and  of  John  Paston  as  having  been  elected  knight  of  the  shire.  It 
will  be  seen  by  No.  458  that  writs  for  an  election  were  expected  as  early  as  the  5th  of 
June  in  1461,  and  as  I  find  that  the  writer  of  this  letter  was  murdered  on  the  4th  of 
July  following,  the  date  is  probably  about  the  very  beginning  of  that  month.  From 
what  is  said  at  the  beginning  of  the  letter  about  Paston's  absence  from  home,  it 
was  evidently  some  time  after  the  last,  which  was  written  on  the  very  day  of  his 
departure. 

284 


EDWARD  IV 

Comons  myght  wisely  do  with  help  of  his  favour,  if  it  wer    1461 
wisely  wrought.     If  my  Maister  William  Paston  ride  hastly      J"^^ 
from  a  x.  daies  to  London,  I  wole  with  hym,  if  he  send  me 
word.     The  Holy  Trinite  preserve  yow.     Wretyn  rudely  in 
hast  the  Sunday,  &c. 

Men  sey,  send  a  wiseman  on  thy  erand,  and  sey  litell  to 
hym,  wherfor  I  write  brefly  and  litell. 

Thomas  Denyes. 


464 

RICHARD  CALL  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  ^ 

To  my  most  reverent  and  worshipfull  mastresse^  my  Mastresse 
Margaret  Paston^  this  be  delyuered. 

PLESITH  it  your  mastresseship  that  my  mastre  ^  wolde  jult  3 
that  ye  alowe  the  berer  hereof  for  hes  costs,  in  asmoch 
as  he  come  hether  for  that  matre,  and  for  non  other ; 
but  ye  must  lete  Thomas  Denys  wif  be  prevy  therto,  for  my 
mastre  wol  that  she  bere  the  cost,  for  it  is  her  matre ;  and 
that  ye  make  her  goode  cheere,  and  if  ye  wol  have  her  hom  to 
you  for  a  seacon,  unto  the  tyme  sche  be  out  of  her  trouble, 
my  mastre  is  agreed.  And  if  sche  sende  to  my  mastre  for 
any  matre,  let  her  sende  her  owne  man  upon  her  owne  coste, 
thowe  ye  paye  the  money  for  a  secon,  unto  the  tyme  that  sche 
may  pay  you  a  yein,  mastre  holdeth  hym  content.  My  right 
wurshipful  mastresse,  Almyghti  Jesu  kepe  you.  Wreten  at 
London  the  iij.  day  of  Jul. 

Your  poore  seruaunt  and  bedman, 

Ric.  Call. 

On  the  back  of  this  letter  is  the  following  memorandum  : — *  Memorandum  of  j. 
comb  whete,  whereof  was  mad  iiij."*-  and  x.  [  *mrscore  and  ten]  brown  lovis  and  iiij.»»- 
and  xvj.  white  lovis,  after  vj,  jA  price  the  .     .* 


*  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  seems  to  have  been  written  in  1461,  just 
before  Thomas  Denys  was  murdered,  in  consequence  of  the  occurrences  mentioned  in 
No.  462.  *  John  Paston. 

285 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


465 

WILLIAM  LOMNER  TO  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 

To  the  right  worchipfull  and  my  good  maister  John  Paston. 

146 1  I  '%  YGHT  worchipfull  and  my  good  mayster  I  recomaunde 
JULY  6  r^  me  to  yow.  And,  sir,  yf  the  Coronation  had  be 
^  ^  on  Relik  Sunday,^  as  it  was  apoyntyd,  I  shuld  have 
waytid  on  yow.  And  as  for  my  Lord  of  Norffolks  mene,  I 
told  my  mastres  your  wyfe,  here  disposission  as  I  coude  know, 
the  wheche  I  sopose  she  told  yow,  as  I  can  espye  some  of  his 
meny  was  grette  cause  of  T.  D.'  deth,  &c.  Also  ye  have 
knowlych  how  Fastolff  *  is  com  yn  to  my  Lord  of  Norffolks 
hous,  for  ij.  causez,  as  I  understande ;  on  is  to  enfors  my 
Lords  entre  yn  Castre  be  his  cleym  ;  an  other  is  to  helpe  his 
fader  yn  lawe^  ayens  Felbrigge,  &c.  For  love  of  Good  take 
good  awayte  to  your  person,  for  the  word  [worW]  is  right 
wilde,  and  have  be  sythyn  Heydonz  saufFe  gard  was  proclamyd 
at  Walsyngham  ;  for  yn  good  feyth  I  trow,  but  if  [i.e.  unless] 
he  be  ponysshid  the  countre  wille  rise  and  doo  moche  harme, 
and  also  for  the  comyssion  Sir  Miles  Stapilton  and  Calthorp, 
that  arn  among  the  comunes  ought  of  conseite  and  reputid  the 
Kyngs  enmez,  as  the  brenger  of  this  bille  can  telle  yow,  to 
whom  I  beseche  yow  to  be  good  mayster,  for  he  hath  doo  the 
Kyng  good  servyse  as  ony  pore  man  of  our  contre,  and  yet  is 
he  callid  traitor  be  sweche  as  he  can  telle  yow,  soportid  be 
Roger  Bolwer  and  Aleyn  Roos,  Heidonz  owyn  men  [chif 
constablez].®  And  it  plese  yow  that  John  Yve  and  John 
Brigge  myght  have  your  warentez  for  cheffc  constable,  &c., 
for  they  ocupye  yn  Kyng  Herris  name.  Forther,  sire,  I  am 
gretly  yn  your  danger  and  dette  for  my  pension,  for  it  is  told 

'  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  From  the  reference  to  the  coronation,  it  is  quite 
evident  that  this  letter  must  have  been  written  in  the  first  year  of  King  Edward  the 
Fourth.  *  12th  July  in  146 1. 

'  Thomas  Dcnys.  *  Thomas  Fastolf  of  Cowhaw. 

*  This  would  seem  to  be  John  Wyndham,  but  I  find  no  mention  of  such  a 
relationship  between  him  and  Fastolf. 

•  Interlined. 

286 


EDWARD  IV 

me  ye  have  paied,  and  at  your  comyng  I  shalle  make  amendez     1461 
with  your  good  maistreship,  and  suche  servyse  as  lith  yn  my    J^"-^  ^ 
pore  powere  is,   and  shalbe,  redy  at  alle  tymez  with  Godds 
grace,  how  have  yow  yn  His  kepyng.     Wretyn  yn  hast  at 
Dallyng,  on  Sent  Thomas  Even,  &c. 

Be  your  Servaunt,  L. 

466 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON* 

To  my  ryth  worchepfull  hosbond,  John  Paston^ 
be  thys  deliverid  in  hast. 

RIGHT  worchepful  hosbond,  I  recommand  me  to  yow.  july9 
Please  yow  to  wete  that  I  have  spoke  with  Thomas 
Denys  wyfFe,  and  she  recommand  hyr  to  your  good 
masterchep,  and  she  prayeth  yow  to  be  her  good  master,  and 
prayet  yow  of  your  good  masterchep,  that  ye  wolle  geve  her 
your  advice  ho  we  to  be  demenid  for  hyr  person  and  hyr 
goodes.  For  as  towchyng  hyr  owne  person,  she  dare  not  goo 
home  to  hyr  owne  place,  for  she  is  thret  if  that  she  myght  be 
take,  she  shuld  be  slayne  or  be  put  in  ferfull  place,  in  shortyng 
of  hyr  lyve  dayes,  and  so  she  standyth  in  gret  hevynes,  God 
her  helpe.  Ferther  more  she  is  nowe  put  be  her  brother  in 
Norwich  with  Awbry,  and  she  thynkyth  the  place  is  right 
conversaunt  of  pupyll  for  hyr  to  abeyd  in,  for  she  kepyth 
hyr  as  close  as  she  may  for  spyyng.  Item,  as  I  went  to 
Seynt  Levenard  ward,  I  spake  with  Maister  John  Salet,  and 
commonyd  with  hym  of  hyr,  and  me  thowgt  be  hym  that  he 
howyth  hyr  ryght  good  wylle.  And  than  I  haskyd  hym  howe 
she  myght  be  demenyd  with  hys^  goodes  and  hyr.  He 
cownseld  me  that  she  shuld  get  hyr  a  trosty  frend,  that  war  a 
good,  trewe,  poor  man,  that  had  not  moche  to  lese,  and  wold 

»  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  clearly  relates  to  the  affairs  of  Thomas 
Denys's  wife,  after  the  murder  of  her  husband  in  1461.  John  Paston  and  William 
Rokewood  were  trustees  of  his  lands,  and  Margaret's  cousin,  John  Bemey  of 
Witchingham,  it  will  be  seen,  wrote  more  than  one  letter  to  them  about  this  time. 

2  i.e.  her  husband's. 

287 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1 46 1  be  rewlyd  after  hyr,  and  to  have  a  letter  of  ministracion  ;  and 
Jui-Y  9  so  I  told  hyr.  Than  she  seyd  she  wold  have  hyr  broder 
advice  therin.  Item,  she  seyth  ther  be  no  mor  feffes  in  hys 
londes  but  ye  and  Rokwood,  and  she.  prayeth  yow  that  it 
please  yow  to  speke  to  Rokwood  that  he  make  no  relesse  but 
be  your  advice,  as  she  trostyth  to  yowr  good  masterchep. 
Item,  the  last  tyme  that  I  spake  with  hyr  she  mad  suche  a 
petows  mone  and  seyd  that  she  wost  ner  ho  we  to  do  for  mony, 
and  so  I  lent  vjj.  viij<^.  Item,  I  sent  my  cosyn  Barney  the 
bylle  that  John  Pampyng  wrot  be  yowr  commanddement  to 
me,  and  he  hath  sent  a  letter  of  hys  entent  to  yow  and  to 
Rokwod  therof,  and  also  but  if  it  please  yow  to  take  better 
hed  to  hys  mater  than  he  can  do  hym  self,  I  can  thynk  he 
shall  ellis  fare  the  wors  for  i'  feyth  he  standyth  daly  in  gret 
fere,  for  the  false  contrary  party  ageyns  hym.  Item,  at  the 
reverence  of  God,  be  ware  howe  ye  ryd  or  go,  for  nowgty  and 
evyll  desposyd  felacheps.  I  am  put  en  fere  dayly  for  myn 
abydyng  here,  and  cownsellyd  be  my  moder  and  be  other  good 
frendes,  that  1  shuld  not  abeyd  here  but  yf  the  world  wher  in 
mor  quiete  than  it  is.  God  for  hys  merci  send  us  a  good 
world,  and  send  yow  helthe  in  body  and  sowle,  and  good 
speed  in  all  your  maters.  Wreten  in  hast  the  Thursday  next 
after  Seynt  Thomas. 

By  your,  M.  P. 

467 

JOHN  BERNEY  TO  JOHN  PASTON  AND 
WYLLIAM  ROKEWODEi 

To  the  worshipfull  John  Paston  and  IVylliam  Rokewode^ 
SquyeriSy  and  to  every ch  of  them. 

JULY  10    Tr\  IGHT  worshipfull  cosynes,  I  recummaund  me  to  yow. 

r^      And  for  as  mech  as  I  am  credybilly  informyd  how  that 

"■-  ^     Sir  Myles  Stapylton  knyght  with  other  yll  dysposed 

persones,  defame  and  falsly  noyse  me  in  morderyng  of  Thomas 

*  [From  Fenn,  i.  236.] 
288 


EDWARD  IV 

Denys  the  Crowner,  and  how  that  I  intend  to  make  insurex-  1461 
yones  contrari  unto  the  law  ;  and  that  the  seyd  Stapylton  J"^*  '^ 
ferthermore  noyseth  me  with  gret  robries ;  in  whech  defama- 
cyones  and  fals  noysyngs  the  seyd  Stapylton,  and  in  that  his 
saying  he  is  fals,  that  knowith  God,  &c.  And  for  my  playn 
acquitayll,  yf  he  or  any  substancyall  gentylman  wyll  say  it,  and 
avow  it,  I  say  to  it  contrari,  and  by  lisens  of  the  Kyng  to 
make  it  good  as  a  gentylman.  And  in  this  my  playn  exskeus, 
I  pray  yow  to  opyn  it  unto  the  Lords,  that  the  seyd  Stapylton, 
&c.,  makyn  gret  gaderyngs  of  the  Kyngs  rebelyones,  lying  in 
wayte  to  morder  me.  And  in  that  I  may  make  opyn  profF. 
Wretyn  in  hast  the  x.  day  of  July  anno  regni  Regis  E.  iiij. 
primo.  John  Berneye. 

Remembre  to  take  a  wryht  to  chese  crowneres  in  NorfFolk. 


468 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON* 

To  my  cosyn,  Margaret  Paston. 

IRECOMAUND  me  to  yow,  letyng  yow  wete  tha  the  july  12 
Undershreve  doughtyth  hym  of  John  Berney ;  wherfore 
I  pray  yow  bryng  hem  to  gedyr,  and  set  hem  acord,  if  ye 
can,  so  that  the  seyd  Ondershreve  be  sure  that  he  shall  not  be 
hurt  be  hym,  ner  of  hys  cuntrymen.  And  eyf  he  woU  not,  lete 
hym  verely  understonde  that  he  shall  be  compellyd  to  fynd 
hym  suerte  of  the  pes  to  agry  in  thys  heed,  and  that  shall 
nowther  be  profitabyll,  ner  worchepful.  And  lete  hym  wete 
that  there  have  be  many  compleynts  of  hym  be  that  knavyssh 
knyght.  Sir  Miles  Stapilton,  as  I  sent  yow  word  before  ;  but 
he  shall  come  to  hys  excuse  wele  inow,  so  he  have  a  mannys 
hert,  and  the  seyd  Stapylton  shall  ben  ondyrstand  as  he  ys,  a 
fals  shrewe.     And  he  and  hys  wyfe  and  other  have  blaveryd 

1  [From  Fenn,  iv.  20.]  This  letter  and  the  next,  which  is  an  answer  to  it,  are 
evidently  of  the  same  year  as  No.  471.  Relic  Sunday  (the  third  Sunday  after  Mid- 
summer Day)  was  the  12th  July  in  1461. 

VOL.  III. T  289 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

146 1  here  of  my  kynred  in  hedermoder  ;  ^  but,  be  that  tyme  we 
JULY  12  have  rekned  of  old  dayes  and  late  dayes,  myn  shall  be  found 
more  worchepfull  thanne  hys  and  hys  wyfes,  or  ellys  I  woll  not 
for  hys  gilt  gypcer. 

Also  telle  the  seyd  Berney  that  the  Shreve  ys  in  a  dought 
whedyr  he  shall  make  a  newe  eleccion  of  knyghts  of  the  shyre, 
be  cause  of  hym  and  Grey ;  where  in  it  were  bettyr  for  hym  to 
have  the  Shreves  good  wyll. 

Item,  me  thynkyth  for  quiete  of  the  cuntre  it  were  most 
worchepfull  that  as  wele  Berney  as  Grey  shuld  get  a  record  of 
all  suche  that  myght  spend  xli.  ayere,  that  were  at  the  day  of 
eleccon,  whech  of  them  that  had  fewest  to  geve  it  up  as  reson 
wold.     Wretyn  at  London,  on  Relyk  Sonday. 

Item,  that  ye  send  abought  for  sylver  acordyng  to  the  old 
bylle  that  I  sent  yow  from  Lynne.  John  Paston. 

469 

MARGARET  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON « 


JULY  1 5  ^  RECOMAND  me  to  yow.  Please  yow  to  wete  that 
I  I  have  sent  to  my  cosyn  Barney,  acordyng  to  your  desyr 
-A-  in  the  letter  that  ye  deed  wright  on  Relec  Sonday  to  me, 
wheropon  he  hathe  wreten  a  letter  to  yow  and  anothyr  bylle 
to  me,  the  wyche  I  send  yow.  He  tolde  the  masanger  that  I 
sent  to  hym  that  the  Undershereve  nedyth  not  to  fer  hym  nor 
non  of  hys  ;  for  he  seyd,  after  the  aleccion  was  doo,  he  spak 
with  hym  at  the  Grey  Fryers,  and  prayyd  hym  of  hys  good 
masterchep,  and  seyd  to  hym  that  he  feryd  no  man  of  bodely 
harme,  but  only  Twyer  and  hys  felachep. 

Item,  Sir  John  Tatersalle  and  the  baly  of  Walsynsham  and 
the  constabyll  hathe  take  the  parson  of  Snoryng  and  iiij.  of  hys 
men,  and  sete  hem  fast  in  the  stokkys  on  Monday  at  nyght ; 
and,  as  it  is  seyd,  they  shuld  be  carryyd  up  to  the  Kyng  in 
hast.  God  defend  yt  but  they  be  shastysyd  as  the  lawe  wolle. 
Twyer  and  hys  felachep  beryth  a  gret  wyght  of  Thomas  Denys 

^  In  luigger-mugger,  i.e.  clandestinely. 

'  [From  Fcnn,  iv.  2+.]     See  note  to  preceding  letter,  p.  2S9,  Note  i. 

290 


EDWARD  IV 

dethe  in  this  contry  abowght  Walsynham  ;  and  it  is  seyd  ther    146 1 
yf  John  Osberne  hade  owght  hym  as  good  wylle,  as  he  deed   Ju^-^  *5 
befor   that   he   was   acqueyntyd   with  Twyer,   he  shuld   not 
adyyd  [have  died\  for  he  myght  rewlyd  al  Walsynham  as  he 
had  lyst,  as  it  ys  seyd. 

Item,  Will  Lynys,  that  was  with  Master  Fastolf,  and 
swyche  other  as  he  is  with  hym,  goo  fast  abowght  in  the 
contr,  and  ber  men  a  hand,^  prests  and  others,  they  be  Skotts, 
and  take  brybys  of  hem  and  let  hem  goo  ageyn.  He  toke  the 
last  wek  the  parson  of  Freton,  and  but  for  my  cosyn  Jarnyng- 
ham  the  younger,^  ther  wold  a  led  hem  forthe  with  hem  ;  and 
he  told  hem  pleynly  yf  they  mad  any  suche  doyngs  ther,  but 
[i.e.  unless]  they  had  the  letter  to  schewe  for  hem,  they  shuld 
aley  on  her  bodyys.  It  wer  welle  do  that  they  wer  met  with  be 
tymys.  It  is  told  me  that  the  seyd  Will  reportyth  of  yow  as 
shamfully  as  he  can  in  dyvers  place.  Jesu  have  yow  in  Hys 
kepyng.     Wreten  in  hast,  the  Wednysday  after  Relec  Sonday. 

Yf  the  Undershereve  come  home,  I  woU  a  say  to  do  for 
hym  as  ye  desyryd  me  in  your  letter.  As  for  mony,  I  have 
sent  abowght,  and  I  can  get  non  but  xiiji.  iiij^.  syn  ye  went 
owght.     I  woUe  do  my  parte  to  get  mor  as  hastely  as  ye  may. 

By  yowr,  M.  P. 


470 
JOHN  BERNEY  TO  JOHN  PASTON» 

To  the  worshipfull  John  Paston^  and  to  my  cosyn^  Wylliam 
Rokewode,  Squyer^  with  my  Lord  of  Cantyrburi, 

RIGHT  worshipfull  sir,  I  recummaund  me  to  yow,  pray-  jult  16 
ing  yow  hertyli  to  labour  for  that  the  Kyng  may  wryte 
unto  me,  gevyng  me  thankyng  of  the  good  wyll  and 
servyse  that  I  hafF  doo  unto  hym,  and  in  beyng  with  hym  a 

1  That  is  to  say,  make  imputations  against  them.     See  vol.  ii.  p.  no,  Note  i. 
*  John  Jemingham,  junior,  son  of  John  Jemingham,  senior,   of  Somerleyton, 
Suffolk. 

'  [From  Fenn,  i.  238.] 

291 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1 46 1  yens  his  adversaries  and  rebelyones,  as  well  in  the  North,  as  in 
JULY  16  this  cuntre  of  Norffolk.  And  in  that  the  Kyng  shold  please 
the  Comynnes  in  this  cuntre  ;  for  they  grudge  and  sey,  how 
that  the  Kyng  resayvith  sych  of  this  cuntre,  &c.  as  hafF  be  his 
gret  eanemyes,  and  opresseors  of  the  Comynes  ;  and  sych  as 
hafF  assystyd  his  Hynes,  be  not  rewardyt ;  and  it  is  to  be  con- 
sederyd,  or  ellys  it  wyll  hurt,  as  me  semyth  by  reason.  And 
in  ayd  of  this  chaungebyll  rewle,  it  wer  nessessary  to  move  the 
good  Lords  Spiretuall  and  Temperall,  by  the  whech  that  myght 
be  reformyd,  &c.  And  in  cas  that  any  of  myn  olde  enemyes, 
Tudynham,  Stapylton,  and  Heydon,  with  theyr  afFenyte  labur 
the  Kyng  and  Lords  unto  my  hurt,  I  am  and  wylbe  redy  to 
come  to  my  souverayn  Lord  for  my  exskeus,  soo  that  I  may 
come  safF  for  unlawfull  hurt,  purveyed  by  my  scyd  ennemyes. 
No  more  at  this  tyme,  but  God  preserve  yow  in  gras.  Wretyn 
at  Wychyngham  the  xvj.  day  in  the  moneth  of  July,  anno  regni 
Regis  E.  iiij'"-  prime.  John  Bern  eye. 

Please  it  yow  to  move  this  unto  my  Lords  Cauntyrburi, 
Ely,  Norwych,  &c. 

JOHN  BERNEY  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

'To  the  ryght  worshipfuU  John  Paston^  Squyer^  in  hast. 

JULY  1 7  ^2^  IR,  I  recomaund  me  to  zow,  &c.  And  as  for  my  playn 
^N  dysposyssyon  towards  the  Undyrshrewe,  I  wyll  hym 
^-^  no  bodyli  hurt,  nor  shal  not  be  hurt  by  me  nor  by  noo 
man  that  I  may  rewle.  But  the  Comynnes  throw  all  the 
schyer  be  movyd  agayn  hym,  for  cause  of  his  lyght  demeanyng 
towards  them  for  this  elexsyon  of  knygtts  of  the  shyer  for  the 
Parlement.  And  I  suppose  yf  that  he  wyll,  he  may  be  hastyli 
easyd  as  thus  : — lat  hym  make  notys  unto  the  seyd  Comynnes 
that  this  theyr  eleccyon  shall  stande,  or  ellys  lat  hym  purchas 
a  new  wryt,  and  lat  hym  make  wrytyng  unto  them  what  day 

'  [From  Fcnn,  iv.  28,] 
292 


EDWARD  IV 

they  shall  come,  and  they  to  make  a  new  eleccyon  acordyng  1461 
unto  the  law.  And,  sir,  I  pray  zow,  sey  to  hym  that  it  is  July  17 
nott  his  oneste  to  lye  upon  too  many  men,  noysyng  them 
rebyliones  of  NorfF  [oik],  and  Berney  theyr  c  .  .  .  No  more 
to  zow  at  this  tyme,  but  I  hafF  sent  zow  ij.  letteris  within  this 
viij.  dayes.  Wretyn  the  xvij.  day  of  July  anno  regni  Regis 
E.  iiij'^  I"*"-  John  Berney. 


MARGARET  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 

To  my  worchepjul  hosbonde^  Jon  Pastun,  this  letter  be 
delyvered  in  hast. 

RYTH  worchepful  husbond,  I  recomawnd  me  to  yow.  jin.T  18 
Plesyt  yow  to  wete  that  I  am  desyrid  be  Sir  John 
Tatersale  to  wryte  to  yow  for  a  comyssion  or  a  noyr 
in  termyner  [oyer  and  terminer~\  ^  for  to  be  sent  down  in  to  this 
cuntre  to  sit  uppon  the  parson  of  Snoryng,  and  on  soche  as 
was  cause  of  Thomas  Denyssys  dethe,  and  for  many  and  gret 
horebyl  robryys  ;  and  as  for  the  costs  ther  of  the  cuntre  wele 
pay  therfor,  for  they  be  sor  aferd  but  [i.e.  unless]  the  seyd 
dethe  be  chastysed,  and  the  seyd  robryys,  they  ar  aferde  that 
mo  folks  xal  be  servyd  in  lyke  wyse. 

As  for  the  prest  and  vj.  of  hese  men  that  be  takyn,  they 
be  delyveryt  to  Twer  [Twyer^  and  iiij.  be  with  hem  of  the 
cuntreys  cost,  for  to  be  sent  with  to  the  Kyng  ;  and  yf  they 
be  browt  up  at  the  reverens  of  God,  do  yowr  parte  that  they 
schape  not,  but  that  they  may  have  the  jugement  of  the  lawe, 
and  as  they  have  deservyd,  and  be  comytyt  to  prison,  not  to 
departe  tyl  they  be  inqueryd  of  her  forseyd  robery  be  soche  a 
comyssion  that  ye  can  get,  that  the  Keng  and  the  Lords  may 
hondyrstonde  wat  rewle  they  have  be  of,  not  hondely  for  the 
moderys  and  the  robbryys,  but  as  wele  for  the  gret  insurrexsin 

*  [From  Fcnn,  iv.  jo.]    The  date  of  this  letter  is  certain,  as  it  refers  to  the  murder 
of  Thomas  Dcnys. 

2  See  vol.  ii.  p.  i6i,  Note  3. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

146 1  that  they  were  lyke  amade  within  the  shyre.  The  preests  of 
JULY  18  Castyr  they  be  streytely  take  hede  at  be  Robcrd  Harmerer  and 
hoder,  so  that  the  seyde  prestys  may  have  no  thyng  out  of 
ther  owne,  ne  of  hodyr  menys,  but  they  be  rassakyt,  and  the 
plase  ys  watchyd  bothe  day  and  nyth.  The  prestys  thynk  ryth 
longe  tyl  they  tydynggs  fro  yow.  At  the  reverens  of  God,  be 
ware  hou  ye  goo  and  ryde,  for  that  ys  told  me  that  ye  thret  of 
hem  that  be  nowty  felawys  that  hathe  be  inclynyng  to  them, 
that  hathe  be  your  hold  adversarys. 

The  blyssyd  Trenyte  have  yow  in  hys  kepyng.     Wretyn 
in  hast,  the  Saturday  nex  be  fore  Sent  Margarete. 

Be  yours,  M.  P. 


473 

GRANT  FROM  THE  CROWN  1 

Pro  Johanne  Pasion. 

JULY  27     I  '%  EX  omnibus  ad  quos  &c.  salutem.     Cum  Nos  indebitati 

i^      sumus   Johanni   Paston   armigero   et  Thomae  Hows 

clerico    in    septingentis   marcis   legalis   monetae   regni 

nostri   Angliae   eisdem    Johanni    et    Thomae    solvendis  juxta 

formam   cujusdam    billae    manu    nostra   signatae   cujus   tenor 

sequitur  in  hasc  verba  : — 

Edward,  Kyng  of  Inglond  and  of  Frauns,  Lord  of  Irlond, 
recorde  and  knoweleych  that  we  have  receyvyd  of  John  Paston, 
Squyer,  and  Thomas  Hows,  clerk,  be  the  assent  of  oure  trusty 
and  welbelovyd  cosyn  Thomas  Archebysshop  of  Caunterbury, 
[and  ?]  Mayster  John  Stokys,  clerk,  an  nowche  of  gold  with  a 
gret  poynted  diamaunt  set  upon  a  rose  enamellid  white,  and  a 
nowche  of  gold  in  facion  of  a  ragged  staff  with  ij.  y mages  of 
man  and  woman  garnysshed  with  a  ruby,  a  dyamaunt  and  a 
gret  perle,  which  were  leyd  to  plegge  by  oure  fader,  whom 
Crist  assoyle,  to  Sir  John  Fastolff,  knyght,  for  CCCC.  xxxlvij//. ; 
and  also  an  obligacion  wherby  oure  seid  fader  was  bound  to 
the  seid  Sir  John  Fastolff  in  an  C.  marc  ;  for  which  we  graunt 

»  [From  Patent  Roll,  i  Eilw.  iv.,  Part  3,  No.  13.] 
294 


EDWARD  IV 

and  promitt  in  the  word  of  a  kyng  to  pay  to  the  seid  John  146 1 
Paston  and  Thomas  Hows,  clerk,  or  to  her  assignez,  D.CC.  JU'-y  27 
mark  of  lawfull  money  of  Englond  at  days  underwrite,  that 
is  to  sey ;  att  the  Fest  of  All  Seyntes  than  next  folowyng  after 
the  date  of  thys  bille  CC.  mark,  and  other  CC.  mark  at  the  Fest 
of  All  Seyntis  than  next  folowyng,  and  other  CC.  mark  at  the 
Fest  of  All  Seyntes  than  next  folowyng,  and  an  C.  mark  at  the 
Fest  of  All  Seyntys  thanne  next  folowyng.  And  also  we  graunte 
that  the  seid  John  Paston  and  Thomas  Hows  shall  have  a  signe- 
ment  sufficient  to  hem  aggreabill  for  the  seid  payment.  And  if 
it  fortune  that  the  same  John  and  Thomas  be  unpayd  by  the 
seid  assignement  of  any  of  the  seid  paymentis  at  any  of  the 
seid  Festis,  thanne  we  graunt  upon  notice  made  to  us  therof 
by  the  same  John  or  Thomas  to  pay  hem  or  her  assignez  that 
payment  so  behynd  onpaid  oute  of  oure  cofirs  withoute  delay. 
In  witnesse  werof  we  have  signed  this  bill  with  oure  hand  the 
xij.  day  of  Jule  the  first  yere  of  [our]  reign. 

Nos  solutionem  summae  illius  praefatis  Johanni  et  Thomae 
fieri  et  haberi  volentes,  ut  tenemur,  concessimus  et  per  prae- 
sentes  concedimus  eisdem  Johanni  Paston  et  Thomae  Hows 
septingentas  marcas  monetae  praedictae  percipiendas  modo  et 
forma  subsequcntibus,  videlicet,  centum  marcas  inde  annuatim 
percipiendas  de  primis  denariis  provenientibus  et  crescentibus 
de  feodi  firma  civitatis  nostrae  Norwici  et  de  omnibus  aliis 
firmis,  exitibus,  proficuis  et  reventionibus  de  eadem  civitate 
provenientibus  per  manus  majoris,  custodis,  vicecomitum, 
civium  seu  ballivorum  ejusdem  civitatis  pro  tempore  existen- 
tium  aut  aliorum  receptorum,  firmariorum  seu  appruatorum 
eorundem  feodi  firmarum,  cxituum,  proficuorum  et  reven- 
tionum  dictae  civitatis  pro  tempore  existentium,  et  centum 
marcas  inde  annuatim  percipiendas  de  firmis,  redditibus,  exiti- 
bus, proficuis  et  aliis  commoditatibus  quibuscumque  de  comi- 
tatibus  nostris  NorfF'  et  SufF'  provenientibus  per  manus 
vicecomitum  eorumdem  comitatuum  pro  tempore  existentium 
quousque  septingentae  marcae  eisdem  Johanni  Paston  et  Thomae 
Hows  plenarie  persolutae  fuerint.  In  cujus  &c.  Teste  Rege 
apud  Westmonasterium,  xxvij.  die  Julii. 

Per  ipsum  Reg  em  oretenus. 
295 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

'   474 

THOMAS  PLAYTER  TO  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 

To  maister  John  Paston  Esquyer  in  hast. 

1461  I  JLEASE  your  maistership  wete  that  Danyell  of  Grayes 
AUG.  1  (?)  wT^  In  enfourmed  me  that  Kyng  of  Dounham  whiche  slewe 
Thomas  Denys  is  arested  and  in  hold  at  Wysbyche 
and  had  ben  delyvered  nor  had  Fraunceys  Costard  a  taken 
suerte  of  pees  of  hym  ;  and  so  he  is  kept  in  by  non  other 
meane  but  al  onely  by  suerte  of  pees.  And  as  1  felt  by  the 
said  Danyell  if  he  be  craftyly  handeled  he  woU  accuse  many 
other  ;  but  Danyell  is  loth  to  name  hem,  but  I  suppose  he 
ment  by  Twyer  and  yet  other  mo,  right  sufficient,  and  kalled 
of  substans.  Item,  Haydon  hath  payed  ccccc.  marks  and  is 
delivered.  Item  it  is  talked  the  parlement  schal  be  proroged 
tyl  the  iiij.  day  of  Novembre  and  the  kyng  wol  in  to  Scotland 
in  al  hast.  Wretyn  in  hast  uppon  the  day  of  the  Advencion.* 
— Youris,  Thomas  Plaiter. 

475 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON » 

To  my  mastres  Paston  and  Richard  Calk. 

AUG.  I      I    >IRST,  that  Richard  Calle  fynde  the  meane  that  a  distresse 

r1        may  be  taken  of  such  bestes  as  occupie  the  ground  at 

Stratton,  and  that  cleyme  and  contynuauns  be  made 

of  my  possession  in  any  wise,  and  that  thei  be  not  suffrid  to 

>  [Add.  MS.  34,888,  f.  181.]  The  year  in  which  this  letter  was  written  U 
certain,  not  only  from  the  reference  to  the  murder  of  Thomas  Denys,  which  was  in 
July  1461,  but  also  from  the  mention  of  the  prorogation  of  Parliament  to  the  4th  of 
November. 

*  Probably  meaning  the  Feast  of  St.  Peter  ad  Vincula  (ist  August). 

3  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.MJ  This  letter  is  printed  from  a  draft  which  is  partly 
in  John  Paston's  own  hand.  The  contents  clearly  refer  to,  first,  the  Norfolk  election 
of  1 46 1,  which  it  was  proposed  to  confirm  by  a  new  meeting  of  the  electors  at  the 
shire-house  ;  and  secondly,  the  necessity  of  electing  a  new  coroner  after  the  murder  of 
Thomas  Denys.     The  date  is  therefore  certain. 

296 


EDWARD  IV 

occupie  withowt  thei  compoune  with  me  ;  and  that  aftir  the     1461 
distresse  taken  the  undirshreve  be  spoke  with  all  that  he  make    ^uc.  i 
no  replevyn  with  out  agrement  or  apoyntement  taken,  that  the 
right  of  the  lond  may  be  undirstand. 

ij.  Item,  I  here  sey  the  peple  is  disposed  to  be  at  the  shire 
at  Norwich  on  Sen  Lauerauns  Day  for  th'affermyng  of  that  thei 
have  do  afore,  wherof  I  hold  me  wele  content  if  thei  do  it  of 
her  owne  disposicion,  but  I  woll  not  be  the  cause  of  the  labour 
of  hem,  ner  bere  no  cost  of  hem  at  this  tyme,  for  be  the  lawe 
I  am  suer  befor,  but  I  am  wel  a  payed  it  shall  be  on  han 
halyday  for  lettyng  of  the  peples  werk.  I  undirstand  ther 
shall  be  labour  for  a  coroner  that  day,  for  ther  is  labour  made 
to  me  for  my  good  wyll  here,  and  I  wyll  nothyng  graunt 
withowt  the  under  shreves  assent,  for  he  and  I  thought  that 
Richard  Bloumvyle  were  good  to  that  occupacion.  Item,  ye 
shall  undirstand  that  the  undirshreve  was  some  what  fleker- 
yng  whill  he  was  here,  for  he  informyd  the  Kyng  that  the 
last  eleccion  was  not  peasibill,  but  the  peple  was  jakkyd  and 
saletted,  and  riottously  disposid,  and  put  hym  in  fere  of  his 
lyfe.  Wherefore  I  gate  of  hym  the  writte  whech  I  send  yow 
herwith,  to  that  entent,  thow  any  fals  shrewe  wold  labour,  he 
shuld  not  be  sure  of  the  writ,  and  therfore  ye  most  se  that  the 
undirshreve  have  the  writ  at  the  day,  in  case  the  peple  be 
gadered,  and  thanne  lete  th'endentures  be  made  up  or  er  they 
departe. 

iij.  Item,  that  ye  rcmembyr  Thomas  Denys  wyfe  that  her 

husbond  had  divers  billes  of  extorcion  don  be  Heydon  and 

other,  whech  that  he  told  me  that  his  seid  wyfe  beryid  whan 

.the  rumour  was,  so  that  thei  were  ny  roten.     Bidde  her  loke 

hem  up  and  take  hem  yow. 

iiij.  Item,  as  for  the  seyd  distreynyng  at  Stratton,  I  wold 
that  Dawbeney  and  Thomas  Bon  shuld  knowe  the  closes  and 
the  ground,  that  thei  myght  attende  ther  to,  that  Richard  were 
not  lettyd  of  other  occupacions,  and  I  wold  this  were  do  as 
sone  as  is  possibill,  or  I  come  home.  Notwithstandyng,  I 
trowe  1  shall  come  home  or  the  shire,  but  I  woll  nat  it  be 
knowe  till  the  same  day,  for  I  will  not  come  there  with  owt  I 
be  sent  fore  be  the  peple  to  Heylisdonne.     Notwithstandyng, 

297 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

146 1  and  the  peple  were  wele  avertised  at  that  day,  they  shuld  be 
AUG.  1  the  more  redy  to  shewe  the  oribyll  extorcions  and  briberys 
that  hath  be  do  upon  hem  to  the  Kyng  at  his  comyng,  desyring 
hym  that  he  shuld  not  have  in  favor  the  seyd  extorcioners,  but 
compelle  hem  to  make  amendes  and  sethe  Isatisfaciion']  to  the 
pore  peple. 

V.  Item,  that  Berney  and  Richard  Wright  geve  suche 
folkys  warnyng  as  wyll  compleyne  to  be  redy  with  her  billes  if 
thei  list  to  have  any  remedy. 

vj.  Item,  that  the  maters  ayens  Sir  Miles  Stapilton  may  at 
Aylesham  be  remembyrd. 

vij.  Also  if  ye  can  be  any  craft  get  a  copy  of  the  bille  that 
Sir  Miles  Stapilton  hath  of  the  corte  roUes  of  Gemyngham, 
that  ye  fayle  not,  but  assay  and  do  yowr  devyr,  for  that  shuld 
preve  some  men  shamefully  fals.  Master  Brakle  seyd  he 
shuld  a  get  oon  of  Freston.  I  wold  he  shuld  assay,  or  ellys 
peraventure  Skypwith,  or  ellys  Master  Sloley  ;  for  if  Stapilton 
were  boren  in  hande  that  he  shuld  be  founde  fals  and  ontrewe, 
and  first  founder  of  that  mater,  he  wold  bothe  shewe  the  bille 
and  where  he  had  it.^ 

viij.  Item,  I  wold  the  prestis  of  Caster  were  content  for 
Midsomer  term. 

ix.  Item,  ther  is  a  whith  box  with  evidens  of  Stratton,  in  on 
of  the  canvas  baggis  in  the  gret  cofir,  or  in  the  spruse  chest. 
Ric.  Calle  knowith  it  well,  and  ther  is  a  ded  of  feffement  and 
a  letter  of  atorne  mad  of  the  seyd  londs  in  Stratton  to  John 
Damm,  W.  Lomner,  Ric.  Calle,  and  John  Russe.  I  wold  a 
new  dede  and  letter  of  atorne  were  mad  owth  therofF  be  the 
feffees  of  the  same  laund  to  Thome  Grene,'  Thome  Playter, 
the  parson  of  Heylisdon,  Jacobo  Gloys,  klerke,*  Johanni 
Pamping,  and  that  the  ded  here  date  nowh,  and  that  it  be 
selid  at  the  next  shire  ;  for  than  I  suppose  the  seyd  fefFes  will 
be  ther  if  it  may  not  be  don  er  that  tyme.     I  wold  have  the 

*  Between  this  and  the  next  paragraph  is  the  following  sentence  crossed  out : — 
'Item,  I  send  yow  a  writ  direct  to  the  Meyer  and  Shreves  of  Norwich  for  to  receyve 
of  hem  an  C.  [AunJreJ'\  mark  yerly  for  suche  jowellys  as  the  Kyng  hath  of  me.' 

*  This  name  is  substitutecl  for  three  others  crossed  out,  viz.  'John  Grenefeld, 
Thomas  Playter,  Water  Wrottisle,  Sauyer.' 

'  Here  occurs  the  name, '  Christorere  Grenacre,'  crossed  out. 
298 


EDWARD  IV 

seyd  dedis  leyd  In  a  box,  both  old  and  new,  and  left  secretly  at     146 1 
Ric.  Thornis  hows  at  Stratton,  that  whan  I  com  homwar  I    ^ug-  » 
mygh  fynd  it  ther,  and  mak  seson  [seising  and  stat  to  be  take 
whil  I  wer  ther.     Wret  at  London  on  Lammes  Day. 


476 

JOHN  RUSSE  TO  JOHN  PASTONi 

To  my  right  worshypfull  and  reverent  maistyr^ 
John  PastoKy  at  Norwich. 

RYGHT  worshypfull  sir,  and  my  right  honourable  maister,  aug.  23 
I  recomaunde  mc  louly  to  you.  And  plese  youre 
maistirshyp  to  wete  that  my  Maister  Clement,  youre 
brothyr,  and  Plater,  wrot  a  letter  to  my  mayster  yore  sone^ 
yistirday,  the  tenure  of  whych  was  how  ye  were  entretyd  there. 
And  as  ye  desyred  me,  so  I  enformyd  hem  the  mater  along, 
for  they  wist  not  of  it  til  I  told  hem  ;  and  they  wrete  the  more 
pleynerly  inasmych  as  a  worshypfull  man  rood  the  same  day, 
and  bare  the  letter  to  my  seyd  maister  youre  sone. 

The  Lord  Bourgcher  is  with  the  Kynge,  and  my  Lord 
Warwyk  still  in  the  North,  &c. 

Item,  sir,  thys  day  cam  on  John  Waynflet  from  the  Kyng 
streyt  weye,  and  he  is  of  myn  aqueyntaunce  ;  and  he  teld  me 
there  was  no  voyse  nor  spekyng  aboute  the  Kyng  of  that 
mater  ;  and  I  teld  hym  all  the  mater  along  hou  ye  were 
intretyd,  whych  he  wyll  put  in  remembraunce  in  ony  place 
that  he  cometh  in  in  Suffolk  or  Esex  as  he  goth  homward,  for 
he  owyth  no  good  wil  to  youre  adversary.  And  the  seyd 
Waynflet  teld  me  that  he  knowyth  for  serteyn  that  the  Kyng 
cometh  not  to  Northefolk  til  he  hathe  been  upon  the  Marchys 

1  [From  Fcnn,  iv.  42.]  Edward  iv.  went  into  the  Marches  of  Wales,  as  men- 
tioned in  this  letter,  in  the  autumn  of  1461.  He  was  at  Gloucester  on  the  nth 
September,  and  at  Ludlow  on  the  21st,  as  appears  by  the  dates  of  his  privy  seals. 
The  matter  mentioned  in  the  postscript  is  doubtless  Howard's  contention  with  Paston 
in  the  shire-house  at  Norwich,  to  which  allusion  is  made  in  the  letter  following. 

'  John  Paston,  the  eldest  son. 

299 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1 46 1     of  Walys,  and  so  there  is  no  serteynte  of  hyse  comyng  thys 
AUG.  23  many  dayez.     He  teld   me   he  lefte  the  Kyng  with   a   smal 
felashyp  aboute  hym. 

And  I  enqueryd  hym  of  the  gyding  of  my  maystyr  yore 
sone,  whiche  he  comendyd  gretly,  and  seyd  that  he  stood 
well  inconseyt,  and  dayly  shuld  increse  ;  and  he  was  well  in 
acqueyntaunce  and  be  lovyd  with  jentilmen  aboute  the  Kyng. 
But  he  seyd  ther  shal  no  thyng  hurte  hym  but  youre  streyt- 
nesse  of  mony  to  hym,  for  withoute  he  have  mony  in  hyse 
purse,  so  as  he  may  resonably  spende  among  hem,  ellys  they 
wyll  not  sette  by  hem  ;  and  there  be  jentilmen  sones  of  lesse 
reputacion  that  hath  mony  more  lyberal  x.  tymez  than  he  hath, 
and  soo  in  that  they  seyd  Waynflet  seyd  it  were  full  necessary 
for  you  to  remembre,  &c. 

As  for  tydyngs  here  bee  noon  newe,  &c.  I  truste  I  shal 
brynge  you  a  letter  from  my  mayster  your  sone,  or  thanne  I 
come,  for  whych  I  shal  rather  thanne  fayle  abyde  on  day  the 
lenger.  And  Jesu  have  you,  my  right  honourable  maister,  in 
Hyse  mercyfuU  governaunce,  and  preserve  you  from  adversyte. 
Wretyn  at  London,  on  Seynt  Bertylmewys  Evyn. 

I  can  speke  with  noo  man  but  that  thynke  the  gydyng  of 
youre  adversary  hath  been  in  many  causez  ryght  straunce,  and 
as  it  is  soposyd  that  he  shal  undyrstondc  at  the  Parlament ;  but 
for  Gods  sake  have  men  inow  aboute  yow,  for  ye  undyrstonde 
is  on  manerly  dysposecion. 

Your  bedeman  and  ser vaunt, 

John  Russe. 


30c 


EDWARD  IV 

477 

JOHN  PASTON,  THE  ELDEST  SON,  TO  HIS  FATHERS 

To  my  rythg  reverent  and  worchypfoll  fader^  John  Paston,  Esquyer^ 
dwellyng  in  Heylysdon^  be  thys  letter  delyvered  in  haste. 

MOST  reverent  and  worschepfuU  fadyr,  I  rekomawnd  1461 
me  hertyly,  and  submytt  me  lowlely  to  your  good  *"G'  23 
faderhood,  besechyng  yow  for  cheryte  of  yowr  dayly 
blyssyng.  I  beseche  yow  to  hold  me  ascewsyd  that  I  sente  to 
yowe  none  erste  no  wrythgtyng,  for  I  kowd  not  spede  to  myn 
intent  the  maters  that  ye  sent  to  me  for.  I  have  laboryd 
dayly  my  Lord  of  Essexe,  Treserer  of  Ynglond,  to  have 
mevyd  the  Kyng  bothe  of  the  maner  [of]  Deddham  and  of  the 
byll  copye  of  the  Corte  Roll,  everye  mornyng  ore  he  went  to 
the  Kyng,  and  often  tymys  inqueryd  of  hym  and  he  had 
mevyd  the  Kyng  in  these  matyers.  He  answeryd  me  naye, 
seyyng  it  was  no  tyme,  and  seyd  he  wold  it  war  osse  fayne 
spedd  OS  I  myselfe,  ofFed  tymys  de  layding  me  that  in  trouthe 
I  thowt  to  have  send  yowe  word  that  I  felyd  by  hym  that  he 
was  not  wyllyng  to  meve  the  Kyng  ther  in.  Neverthe  lesse 
I  lawberyd  to  hym  contynually,  and  prayed  Barronners  hys 
man  to  remembyr  hym  of  it.  I  told  ofFten  tyms  to  my  seyd 
Lord  that  I  had  a  man  teryyn  in  town,  that  I  schuld  a  sente  to 
yow  for  othyr  sundry  maters,  and  he  teryid  for  no  thyng 
but  that  I  mythg  send  yowe  by  hym  an  answer  of  the  seyd 
matyers  ;  othyr  tyms  besechyng  hym  to  spede  me  in  theys 
matyers  for  thys  cawse,  that  ye  schulde  thynke  no  defawte  in 
me  for  remembryng  in  the  seyd  maters. 

And  nowe  of  late,  I,  rememberyng  hym  of  the  same  mater, 
inqueryd  if  he  had  mevyd  the  Kyngs  Hythgnes  therin  ;  and 
he  answeryd  me  that  he  hadde  felte  and  mevyd  the  Kyng  ther 

*  [From  Fenn,  iv.  46.]  Allusion  is  made  in  this  letter,  as  in  the  last,  to  Edward 
iv.'s  going  into  Wales  in  1461.  The  writer  appears  to  have  been  with  the  King, 
and  expecting  to  accompany  him  on  the  journey.  Edward  was  at  Battle  on  the 
2 1  St  August  1 46 1,  according  to  the  dates  of  bis  privy  seals. 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

146 1  in,  rehersyng  the  Kyngys  answer  therin  ;  how  that,  when  he 
AUG.  23  had  mevyd  the  Kyng  in  the  seyd  maner  of  Dedham,  besechyng 
hym  to  be  yowr  good  Lord  ther  in,  konsyderyng  the  servyse 
and  trewe  part  that  ye  have  done,  and  owthg  to  hym,  and  in 
espesyal  the  rygth  that  ye  have  therto,  he  seyd  he  wold  be 
your  good  Lord  therin  as  he  wold  be  to  the  porest  man  in 
Inglond.  He  wold  hold  with  yowe  in  yowr  rygth  ;  and  as  for 
favor,  he  wyll  nogth  be  under  stand  that  he  schal  schewe  favor 
mor  to  one  man  then  to  anothyr,  nowgth  to  on  in  Inglond. 

And  as  for  the  bille  copyd  of  the  Cort  Rolle,  when  he 
mevyd  to  him  of  it,  he  smylyd  and  seyd  that  suche  a  bylle 
ther  was,  seyyng  that  ye  wold  an  oppressyd  sundreys  of  yowr 
contremen  of  worchypfull  men,  and  the  for  he  kepyd  it  styll. 
Never  the  lesse  he  seyd  he  schuld  loke  it  uppe  in  haste,  and  he 
schuld  have  it. 

Baronners  undertoke  to  me  twyes  ore  thryes  that  he 
schuld  so  a'  remembred  hys  lord  and  master,^  that  I  schuld 
au  had  it  with  inne  ij.  or  iij.  dayes.  He  is  often  tyms  absent, 
and  therfor  I  have  it  nowthg  yyt ;  when  I  kan  gete  it,  1  schall 
send  it  yowe,  and  of  the  Kyngs  mowth,  hys  name  that  take  it 
hym. 

I  scend  you  home  Pekok  a  geyn.  He  is  not  for  me. 
God  send  grace  that  he  may  do  yow  good  servyse,  that  be 
extymacion  is  not  lykelye.  Ye  schall  have  knowleche  aftyr- 
ward  how  he  hathe  demenyd  hym  her  with  me.  I  wold, 
savyng  yowr  dysplesure,  that  ye  were  delyvered  of  hym,  for 
he  schalle  never  do  yow  profyte  ner  worchyp. 

I  suppose  ye  understand  that  the  monye  that  I  hadde  of 
yowe  att  Londun  maye  not  indur  with  me  tyll  that  the  Kyng 
goo  in  to  Walys  an  kome  ageyn,  for  I  under  stand  it  schall  be 
long  or  he  kome  ageyn.  Wher  for  1  have  sent  to  Londun  to 
myn  onkyl  Clement  to  gete  an  Cs.  of  Christofyr  Hansom 
yowr  servaunt,  and  sene  [5end'\  it  me  be  my  seyd  servaunt, 
and  myn  herneys  with  it,  whyche  I  lefte  at  Lundun  to  make 
klene. 

I  beseche  yowe  not  to  be  dysplesyd  with  it,  for  I  kowd 
make    non   othyr   cheysaunce    [arrangement^  but   I   schuld   a 

*  Henry  Bourchicr,  Earl  of  Essex. 
302 


EDWARD  IV 

boruyed  it  of  a  strange  man,  sum  of  my  felawys,  who  I     146 1 
suppose  schold  not  lyke  yowe,  and  ye  herd  of  it  a  nothyr  aug.  23 
tyme.     I  ame  in  suerte  wher  as  I  schall  have  a  nothyr  maun  in 
the  stede  of  Pekoke. 

My  Lord  of  Estsexe  seythe  he  wyll  do  as  myche  for  yowe  1 
as  for  any  esquyer  in  Inglond,  and  Beronners  hys  man  telht  I 
me,  seyy[n]g,  '  Yowr  fadyr  is  myche  be  holdyng  to  my  Lord, 
for  he  lovyth  hym  well.'  Bernners  mevyd  me  ons,  and  seyd 
that  ye  must  nedys  do  sum  wate  for  my  Lord  and  hys,  and  I 
seyd  I  wost  well  that  ye  wold  do  for  hym  that  laye  in  yowre 
powar.  And  he  seyd  that  ther  was  a  lytyl  mony  be  twyxe 
yowe  and  a  jantylman  of  Estsexe,  callyd  Dyrward,  seyyng  that 
ther  is  as  myche  be  wern  [J?eiween]  my  seyd  Lord  and  the 
seyd  jantylman,  of  the  wyche  mony  he  desieryth  yowr  part. 

It  is  talkyd  here  how  that  ye  and  Howard  schuld  a* 
strevyn  togueder  on  the  scher  daye,  and  on  of  Howards  men 
schuld  a'  strekyn  yow  twyess  with  a  dagere,  and  soo  ye  schuld 
a  ben  hurt  but  for  a  good  dobelet  that  ye  hadde  on  at  that 
tyme.  Blyssyd  be  God  that  ye  hadde  it  on.  No  mor  I 
wryth  to  yower  good  faderhod  at  thys  tym,  but  All  myghty 
God  have  yowe  in  Hys  kepyng,  and  sende  yowe  vyttorye  of 
yowr  elmyes  \_enemies~\,  and  worschyp  in  cressyng  to  yowr  lyvys 
end  yn.  Wrytyn  at  Lewys,  on  Seynt  Bertylmwes  Eve. 
Be  yowr  servaunt  and  elder  sone, 

John  Paston. 

478 

CLEMENT  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  hys  rythe  reverent  and  worchypfwll  hroder^  John  Paston, 

RYTHE  reverent  and  worchypfwll  broder,  I  recomawnde  aug.  25 
me  to  yowr  good  broderhood,  desieryng  to  herre  of 
zour  welfar  and  good  prosperite,  the  gwyche  I  pray 
God  encresse  to  His  pleswr  and  zowr  herts  hesse  \hearfs  ease'\ ; 

>  [From  Fenn,  iv.  52.]  The  references  to  Howard's  conduct,  and  to  John  Paston 
the  son  being  with  the  King,  prove  this  letter  to  be  of  the  year  1461.  Compare  the 
last  paragraph  of  the  letter  immediately  preceding  with  the  nrst  of  this. 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1 46 1  certyfyyng  zow  that  I  have  spok  with  John  Rwssc,  and  Playter 
AUG.  25  spok  with  him  bothe,  on  Fryday  be  for  Seynt  Barthelmw.  He 
tolde  us  of  Howards  gydyng,  gwyche  mad  us  rythe  sory  tyl 
we  herde  the  conclusion  that  ze  hadde  non  harme. 

Also  I  understond  by  W.  Pekok  that  my  nevew  hadde 
knowleche  ther  of  also  up  on  Saterday  nexst  be  for  Seynt 
Barthelmwe,  in  the  Kyngs  howse.  Not  with  standyng,  up  on 
the  same  day  Playter  and  I  wryte  letters  on  to  him,  rehersyng 
al  the  mater,  for  cause  if  ther  wer  ony  questionys  mevyd  to 
hym  ther  of,  that  he  xwlde  telle  the  trowthe,  in  cas  that  the 
qwestions  wer  mevyd  by  ony  worchypfwll  man,  and  namyd 
my  Lord  Bowcher,^  for  my  Lord  Bowcher  was  with  the  Kyng 
at  that  tyme. 

I  fele  by  W.  Pekok  that  my  nevew  is  not  zet  verily 
aqweyntyd  in  the  Kyngs  howse,  nor  with  the  officers  of  the 
Kyngs  howse  he  is  not  takyn  as  non  of  that  howse  ;  for  the 
coks  [foo^j]  be  not  charged  to  serve  hym,  nor  the  sewer  ^  to 
gyve  hym  no  dyche,  for  the  sewer  wyll  not  tak  no  men  no 
dyschys  till  they  be  comawndyd  by  the  cownterroller.  Also 
he  is  not  aqweyntyd  with  no  body  but  with  Weks  ;  *  and 
Weks  ad  told  hym  that  he  wold  bryng  hym  to  the  Kyng,  but 
he  hathe  not  zet  do  soo.  Wherfor  it  were  best  for  hym  to 
tak  hys  leve  and  cum  hom,  til  ze  hadd  spok  with  swm  body 
to  helpe  hym  forthe,  for  he  is  not  bold  y  now  to  put  forthe 
hym  selfe.  But  than  I  consyderyd  that  if  he  xwld  now  cum 
hom,  the  Kyng  wold  thyng  [^fhink]  that  wan  he  xwld  doo  hym 
ony  servie  som  wer,  that  than  ze  wold  have  hym  hom,  the 
qwyche  xwld  cause  hym  not  to  be  hadde  in  favor ;  and  also 
men  wold  thynke  that  he  wer  put  owte  of  servie.  Also 
W.  Pekok  tellythe  me  that  his  mony  is  spent,  and  not 
ryotesly,  but  wysly  and  discretly,  for  the  costs  is  gretter  in 
the  Kyngs  howse  qwen  he  rydythe  than  ze  wend  it  hadde  be, 
as  Wyllam  Pekok  can  tell  zow ;  and  therof  wee  must  gett 
hym  jCj".  at  the  lest,  as  by  Wyllam  Pekoks  seyyng,  and  zet 

^  Henry,  Viscount  iJourchier,  who  had  been  created  Earl  of  Essex  on  the  30th 
June  preceding.     The  writer  had  forgotten  his  new  dignity. 

*  An  officer  who  had  the  ordering  of  the  dishes,  etc. 

•  John  Wykes  was  an  usher  of  the  King's  chamber,  and  a  friend  and  cousin  of 
J.  Paston's. — F. 


EDWARD  IV 

that  will  be  to  lytill,  and  I  wot  well  we  lean  not  get  xld.  of  146 1 
Chrlstifyr  Hanswm.  So  I  xall  be  fayn  to  lend  it  hym  of  myn  aug.  25 
owne  silver.  If  I  knew  verily  zour  entent  wer  that  he  xwld 
cum  horn,  I  wold  send  hym  non.  Ther  I  wyll  doo  as  me 
thynkithe  ze  xwld  be  best  plesyd,  and  that  me  thynkythe  is  to 
send  him  the  silver.  Ther  for  I  pray  zow  hastely  as  ze  may 
send  me  azen  v.  mark,  and  the  remnawnte,  I  trow,  I  xall  get 
up  on  Christofir  Hanswm  and  Lwket.  I  pray  zow  send  me  it 
as  hastely  as  ze  may,  for  I  xall  leve  my  selfe  rythe  bare  ;  and 
I  pray  zow  send  me  a  letter  how  ze  woU  that  he  xuU  be  de- 
menyd.  Wrytyn  on  Twsday  after  Seynt  Barthelmwc,  &c. 
Christus  vos  conservet !  Clement  Paston. 


479 

LORD  BEAUCHAMP  TO  SIR  THOMAS  HOWES  1 

To  myn  welbeloved  frende^  Sir  Thomas  Howys, 
Parson  of  Blofeld. 

WELBELOVED  frende,  I  grete  you  well.  And  for  as  aug.  28 
muche  as  I  understonde  that  William  Wurcester, 
late  the  servant  unto  Sir  John  Fastolf,  Knyth, 
whois  soule  God  assoyle,  ys  not  had  in  favour  ne  trust  with 
my  right  welbeloved  frende,  John  Paston,  nether  with  you,  as 
he  seyth,  namely  in  such  maters  and  causes  as  concerneth  the 
wylle  and  testament  of  the  said  Sir  John  Fastolf ;  and  as  I  am 
informed  the  said  William  purposeth  hym  to  go  into  his 
cuntre,  for  the  whiche  cause  he  hath  desired  me  to  wryte  unto 
you  that  ye  wolde  ben  a  special  good  frend  unto  hym,  for  his 
said  mastris  sake,  to  have  allc  suche  things  as  reason  and 
consciens  requireth,  and  that  ye  wolde  be  meane  unto  Paston 
for  hym  in  this  mater  to  schewe  hym  the  more  favour  at  thys 
tyme  for  this  my  writyng  in  doyng  of  eny  truble  to  hym, 
trusting  that  he  wole  demeane  hym  in  suche  wyse  that  he  shal 

1  [From  Fcnn,  iv.  96.]  This  letter  was  probably  written  in  the  year  1461,  if  not 
in  the  year  preceding.  The  disputes  about  FastolPs  will  came  before  the  Spiritual 
Court  in  the  year  1465  ;  but  at  the  date  of  this  letter  they  could  not  have  proceeded 
very  far. 

VOL.  III. U  305 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

146 1     have  no  cause  unto  hym,  but  to  be  his  good  master,  as  he 

AUG.  28  seyth.     And  yf  ther  be'  eny  thing  that  I  can  do  for  you,  I 

wole  be  right  glad  to  do  it,  and  that  knoweth  Almyghty  God, 

whiche  have  you  in  his  keping.     Wretin  at  Grenewyche,  the 

xxviij'**  day  of  August.  J.  Beauchamp. 

480 

LORD  HUNGERFORD  AND  ROBERT  WHITYNGHAM 
TO  MARGARET  OF  ANJOU^ 

yf  la  Reyne  D' Engleterre  [eti]  Escote. 

AUG.  30  "m  ^TADAM,  please  it  yowr  gode  God,  we  have  sith  our 
^1  corny ng  hider,  writen  to  your  Highnes  thryes.  The 
last  we  sent  by  Bruges,  to  be  sent  to  you  by  the 
first  vessell  that  went  into  Scotland  ;  the  oder  ij,  letters  we 
sent  from  Depe,  the  ton  by  the  Carvell  in  the  whiche  we  came, 
and  the  oder  in  a  noder  vessell.  But,  ma  dam,  all  was  oon 
thyng  in  substance,  of  puttyng  you  in  knolege  of  the  Kyng 
your  uncles^  deth,  whom  God  assoyll,  and  howe  we  sta[n]de 
arest  [arrestea]^  and  doo  yet ;  but  on  Tuysday  next  we  trust 
and  understande,  we  shall  up  to  the  Kyng,  your  cosyn 
germayn.^  His  Comyssaries,  at  the  first  of  our  tarrying, 
toke  all  our  letters  and  writyngs,  and  here  theym  up  to  the 
Kyng,  levyng  my  Lord  of  Somerset  in  kepyng  atte  Castell  of 
Arkes,*  and  my  felowe  Whityngham  and  me,  for  we  had  saufF 
conduct,  in  the  town  of  Depe,  where  we  ar  yete.  But  on 
Tyysday  next  we  understand,  that  it  pleaseth  the  said  Kyngs 
Highnes  that  we  shall  come  to  hys  presence,  and  ar  charged  to 
bring  us  up.  Monsieur  de  Cressell,  nowe  Baillyf  of  Canse,  and 
Monsieur  de  la  Mot. 

Ma  dam,  ferth  [^fear'\  you  not,  but  be  of  gode  comfort, 

'  [From    Fenn,   i.    24.6.]     That  this   letter  was  written   in   the   year   146 1    is 
sufficiently  evident  from  its  contents.     The  MS.  from  which  it  was  printed  by  Fenn 
jvas  a  copy  in  the  handwriting  of  Henry  Windsor,  and  was  manifestly  the  enclosure 
referred  to  in  his  letter  No.  483.     It  bore  the  same  paper-mark  as  that  letter. 

*  Charles  vii.  of  France.     He  died  on  the  22nd  July  1461. 
■'■  Lewis  XI.,  son  of  Charles  vii. 

*  Arques,  in  Normandy,  south  of  Dieppe. 

306 


EDWARD  IV 

and  beware  that  ye  aventure  not  your  person,  ne  my  Lord  1461 
the  Prynce/  by  the  See,  till  ye  have  oder  word  from  us,  in  less  ^"°*  3^ 
than  your  person  cannot  be  sure  there  as  ye  ar,  [and]  that 
extreme  necessite  dryfe  you  thens ;  and  for  God  sake  the 
Kyngs  Highnes  be  advysed  the  same.  For  as  we  be  en- 
formed,  Th'erll  of  March  ^  is  into  Wales  by  land,  and  hath 
sent  his  navy  thider  by  see  ;  and,  Ma  dame,  thynketh  verily, 
we  shall  not  soner  be  delyvered,  but  that  we  woll  come  streght 
to  you,  withaut  deth  take  us  by  the  wey,  the  which  we  trust 
he  woll  not,  till  we  see  the  Kyng  and  you  peissible  ayene  in 
your  Reame  ;  the  which  we  besech  God  soon  to  see,  and  to 
send  you  that  your  Highnes  desireth.  Writen  at  Depe  the 
XXX*'  dey  of  August. 

Your  true  Subgettes  and  Liege  men. 

HuNGERFORD. 

Whityngham. 

At  the  bottom  of  the  Copy  of  the  Letter  is  added  : — 

These  ar  the  names  of  those  men  that  ar  in  Scotland  with 
the  Quene.  The  Kyng  Herry  is  at  Kirkhowbre  with  iiij.  men 
and  a  childe. 

Quene  Margaret  is  at  Edenburgh  and  hir  son. 

The  Lord  Roos  and  his  son. 

John  Ormond.  Sir  Edmund  Hampden. 

William  Taylboys.  Sir  Henry  Roos. 

Sir  John  Fortescu.  John  Courteney. 

Sir  Thomas  Fyndern.  Myrfyn  of  Kent. 

Wayncsford  of  London.  Dauson. 

Thomas     Thompson     of  Thomas  Burnby. 

Guynes.  Borret  of  Sussex. 

Thomas      Brampton      of  Sir  John  Welpdalle. 

Guynes.  Mr.  Roger  Clerk,  of  London. 

John  Audeley  of  Guynes.  John  Retford,  late  Coubitt. 

Langheyn  of  Irland.  Giles  Senctlowe. 

Thomas  Philip  of  G[i]ppes-  John  Hawt. 

wich. 

*  Edward,  son  of  Henry  vi. 

-  Edward  iv.,  whom  the  Lancastrians  did  not  yet  recognise  as  king. 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


481 

JOHN  PAMPYNG  TO  JOHN  PASTON,  SENIORS 

To  my  right  worshipfull  master  John  Pastotty  the  older^  Squier. 

146^  TP\LEASE  your  mastirship  to  wete  that  I  have  be  at  Cotton, 
SEPT.  6  Y^  and  spoke  with  Edward  Dale,  and  he  told  me  that 
•*-  Yelverton  and  Jenney  were  there  on  Friday,*  and  a 
toke  distresse  of  xxvj.  or  more  buUokks  of  the  seid  Edwards 
*  in  the  Park,  and  drofe  hem  to  a  town  therby  ;  and  a  neygh- 
bore  there  undirstandyng  the  bests  were  Edward  Dalis,'  and 
bond  hym  to  pay  the  ferme,  or  ellis  to  bryng  in  the  bests  be  a 
day.  And  whan  the  seid  Edward  undirstod  the  takyng  of  the 
seid  bests  he  went  to  Yelverton  and  Jenney,  and  bond  hym  in 
an  obligacon  of  x/i.,  to  pay  hem  his  ferme  at  Mighelmes  ; 
whech  I  told  hym  was  not  well  do,  for  I  told  hym  ye  had  be 
abill  to  save  hym  harmeles.  And  because  of  discharge  of  his 
neyghbour  he  seid  he  myght  non  other  wise  do.  Nevirthelesse 
as  for  mony  thei  get  none  of  hym  redely,  ner  of  the  tcnaunts 
nowthyr,  as  he  can  thynk  yet.  The  seid  Yelverton  dyned  on 
Friday  at  Cotton,  and  there  chargid  the  tenaunts  thei  shuld 
pay  no  mony  but  to  hym,  and  hath  flaterid  hem,  and  seith  thei 
shall  be  restorid  ayen  of  such  wrongs  as  thei  have  had  be  Sir 
Philip  Wentworth  and  other  for  Master  FastolfF ;  and  because 
of  such  tales,  your  tenaunts  owe  hym  the  bettir  will.  And  I 
purposid  to  have  gon  to  Cotton  and  spoke  with  the  tenaunts, 
and  Edward  Dale  told  me  he  supposid  thei  wold  be  this  day  at 
Nakton.  And  because  [I  desired]  *  to  speke  with  hem  as  ye 
comaundid  me,  I  terid  not  but  rod  to  Ipwich  to  my  bed,  and 
there  at  the  Sonne  was  the  seid  Yelverton  and  Jenney  and 
Thomas  Fastolff;  and  myn  ost  told  me,  that  the  same  aftir 

*  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  In  the  letter  of  James  Gloys,  which  follows  (No. 
482),  will  be  found  an  allusion  to  a  recent  'revel  done  in  Suftblk  '  by  Yelverton  and 
Jenney.  That  the  affair  alluded  to  was  the  same  which  is  described  in  this  letter  will 
appear  beyond  doubt  if  the  reader  will  refer  to  Letter  487. 

*  4th  September.  ^  Apparently  the  writer  has  omitted  a  word  or  more  here. 

*  Omitted  in  MS. 

308 


EDWARD  IV 

none  the!  had  be  at  Nakton,  but  what  thel  ded  there  I  can  not  1461 
telle,  and  whan  I  was  undirstand  your  man,  Hogon,  Jenneys  "pt.  6 
man,  askyd  suerte  of  pes  of  me  ;  and  Jenney  sent  for  an  officer 
to  have  hed  me  to  prison  ;  and  so  myn  ost  undirtoke  for  me 
that  nyght.  And  this  day  in  the  mornyng  I  wente  to  Sen 
Lauerauns  Chirche  ;  and  there  1  spak  to  hem  and  told  hem  ye 
merveylid  that  thei  wold  take  any  distresse  or  warne  any  of 
your  tenaunts  that  thei  shuld  pay  yow  no  mony.  And  Yel- 
verton  seid  ye  had  take  a  distresse  falsly  and  ontrcwly  of  hym 
that  ought  yow  no  mony  ner  hem  nowther.  And  he  seid  he 
was  infeffid  as  well  as  ye  ;  and  as  for  that  I  told  hym  he  wost 
odre  [knew  the  contrary^  and  thow  he  were  it  was  but  your  use, 
and  so  I  told  hym  that  men  were  infeffid  in  his  lond,  and  that 
he  shuld  be  servid  the  same  withinne  fewe  dayes.  And  he 
seid  he  wost  well  ye  were  not  infeffid  in  his  lond,  and  if  ye 
toke  upon  yow  to  make  any  trobill  in  his  lond  ye  shall  repente 
it.  And  also  he  seid  that  he  wold  do  in  like  wise  in  alle  maners 
that  were  Sir  John  FastolfFs  in  Norfolk  as  thei  have  begonne, 
and  other  langage  as  I  shall  telle  yow.  And  so  I  am  with  the 
gayler,  with  a  clogge  upon  myn  hele  for  suerte  of  the  pees  ; 
wherefore  please  your  mastirship  to  send  me  your  avise. 

Item,  John  Andrews  was  with  hem  at  Cotton,  and  thei  have 
set  a  man  of  the  seid  Andrews  to  kepe  the  plase. 

Item,  Wymondham,  Debenham  and  Tympirle  come  to 
Yelverton  this  day  at  masse  and  speke  with  hym ;  and  I  speke 
to  Tymperle  in  your  name  that  he  wold  not  comforte  ner  be 
with  hem  ayein  in  this  mater  ;  and  he  seid  he  undirstod  no 
such  thyng,  ner  it  was  not  his  comyng  hedir.  "Nyretyn  at 
Ipwych  the  Sonday  next  before  the  Nativite  of  Owr  Lady. 
Yowr  servaunt,  John  Pampyng. 

^  The  back  is  covered  with  some  rough  memoranda  in  Richard  Callers  hand,  of 
moneys  received  at  different  times  of  year  by  Richard  Charlys,  Thomas  Howys, 
William  Berton,  baker,  of  Southwark,  Ralph  Level,  John  Prcntyng,  Richard  Coombcr, 
and  John  de  Dorylot.  Some  of  these  payments  are  made  through  Dawbeney,  John 
Paston,  junior,  and  John  Paston,  senior  (^per  manus  Johannit  Ptuton  Semoru). 


309 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

482 

JAMES  GLOYS  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  the  right  reverent  and  wurchepfull  Sir,  and  my  gode 
mayster^  John  Pas  tony  Esquyer. 

146 1  irj  IGHT  reverent  and  wurchepfull  sir,  I  recomand  me  to 
SEPT.  24  r^  your  gode  maystershep,  prayng  you  to  wete  that  I  was 
■^^-  at  Blakkes,  and  spake  with  his  wiffe ;  and  she  seth  he 
was  not  at  hame  this  iij.  weks, — he  ridith  up  the  countre  to 
take  accompts  of  balys  [bailiffs\ — and  that  this  day  sevennyght 
he  shuld  have  satyn  in  Caystr  by  you  up  on  accounts,  and  fro 
thens  he  shuld  have  redyn  to  Lynne,  and  that  he  shall  be  at 
home  un  Monday  at  nyght  next  comyng.  Wherfor  I  have 
left  my  heraund  with  her.  But  she  seth  that  he  shall  not  mown 
corny  n  [be  able  to  come]  to  you,  for  my  Lady^  have  sent  for 
hym  in  gret  hast,  bothyn  be  a  letter  and  be  a  tokyn,  to  corny n 
to  her  as  hastly  as  he  may ;  notwithstandyng  she  shall  do  the 
herand  to  hym. 

As  for  Yelverton,  I  dede  a  gode  fele  to  enquer  of  Yemmys 
Skynner  whan  the  seid  Yelverton  shuld  go  to  London.  He 
seid  not  this  sevynnyght.  He  cowde  not  tell  what  day  till  he 
had  spokyn  with  his  son.  His  sone  shuld  come  to  hym  or 
his  master  shuld  ridyn.  I  shall  enquer  mor  at  Walsyngham. 
And  for  Godds  love  be  not  to  longe  fro  London,  for  men  seyn 
ther,  as  I  have  be  [told],  that  my  Lord  of  Glowcetir '  shuld 
have  Cayster,  and  ther  is  gret  noyse  of  this  revell  that  was  don 
in  Suffolk  be  Yelverton  and  Jeney  ;  and  your  wele  willers 
thynkyn  that  if  thci  myght  prevayle  in  this,  thei  wold  attempt 
you  in  other.     But  seas  ther  pore  and  malyce,  and  preserve 

*  [From  Fcnn,  iv.  58.]  On  the  back  of  this  letter  is  the  following  memoramium 
in  a  contemporaneous  hand : — '  De  Ric'o  Calle  pro  ordio  (i.e.  hordeo)  ibidem  pro  ij. 
annis  terminatis  ad  Mic'  anno  primo  regni  Regis  E.  iiij.,  xxvj/.  viij</.'  This  shows  that 
the  letter  itself  could  not  have  been  written  later  than  146 1,  and  as  there  was  no 
'Lord  of  Gloucester'  before  that  year,  it  could  not  have  been  earlier. 

*  Alice,  Duchess  of  Suffolk. 

*  Richard,  the  King's  brother,  afterwards  Richard  ill. 


EDWARD  IV 

you  from  all  evill.     And  at  the  reverence  of  God  lete  sum     146 1 
interposicion  go  a  twix  you  and  my  mastres  your  moder  or  ye  sept.  24 
go  to  London,  and  all  that  ye  do  shall  spede  the  better ;  for 
she  is  set  on  gret  malyce,  and  every  man  that  she  spekith  with 
knowith  her  hert,  and  it  is  like  to  be  a  fowle  noyse  [over]  all 
the  countre  with  aught  it  be  sone  sesid. 

Also,  sir,  it  is  told  me  that  my  Lord  of  Norfolk  is  comyn 
to  Framlyngham,  and  that  ye  be  gretly  comendyd  in  his  hows- 
hold.  Therfor  it  wer  wele  do,  me  semyth,  that  ye  spake  with 
hym.     The  Holy  Trynyte  kepe  you. 

Wretyn  at  Norwich,  the  Thursday  next  after  Sent 
Mathewe. 

Your  pore  prest,  James  Gloys. 

HENRY  WYNDESORE  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 

To  my  full  worshipfull^  speciall  gode  maister^  John  Pastotiy 
Squyery  abidyng  at  Norwich. 

RIGHT  worshipfull  sir,  and  some  tyme  my  moost  speciall  oct.  4 
gode  master,  I  recommaunde  me  unto  your  gode  mais- 
tership,  with  all  my  pour  service,  if  it  may  in  any  wise 
suffice  ;  and  farthermore,  sir,  I  beseche  you,  nowe  beyng  in  your 
countre,  where  ye  may  deily  call  unto  you  my  maister  Sir 
Thomas  Howys,  ones  to  remembre  my  pour  mater,  and  by 
your  discretions  to  take  such  a  direction  theryn,  and  so  to 
conclude,  as  may  be  to  your  discharge  and  to  my  furtherance, 
accordyng  to  the  will  of  hym  that  is  passed  unto  Gode,  whose 
saull  I  pray  Jesu  pardone  !  for  truly,  sir,  ther  was  in  hym  no 
faute,  but  in  me  onely ;  yf  it  be  not  as  I  have  remembred  your 
maistership  afFore  thy[s]  tyme.  For  truly,  sir,  I  der  say  I  shuld 
have  had  as  speciall  and  as  gode  a  maister  of  you,  as  any  pour  man, 
as  I  am,  withyn  England  shuld  have  hadd  of  a  worshipfull  man, 
as  ye  ar,  yf  ye  had  never  medulled  the  godes  of  my  maister  F.,- 
and  as  moche  ye  wold  have  done,  and  labored  fore  me,  in  my 

*  [From  Fenn,  i.  240.]     For  the  date  of  this  letter,  compare  No.  480. 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1 46 1  right,  if  it  hadde  byn  in  the  handes  of  any  oder  man  than  of 
o""-  4  your  self  anely.  But,  I  truste  in  Gode,  at  your  next  comyng 
to  have  an  answere,  such  as  I  shalbe  content  with.  And  yf  it 
may  be  so,  I  am  and  shalbe  your  servaunt  in  that  I  can  or  may, 
that  knoith  our  Lord  Jesu,  whom  I  besech  save  and  sende  you 
a  gode  ende  in  all  your  maters,  to  your  pleiser  and  worship 
everlastyng.     Amen.     Writton  at  London,  iiij'°  die  Octobris. 

As  fore  tidyngs,  the  Kyng  wolbe  at  London  withyn  iij. 
deies  next  comyng  ;  and  all  the  castelles  and  holdes  in  South 
Wales,  and  in  North  Wales,  ar  gyfen  and  yelden  up  into  the 
Kynges  hand.  And  the  Due  of  Excestre  ^  and  th'erle  of 
Pembrok^  ar  floon  and  taken  the  mounteyns,  and  dyvers 
Lordes  with  gret  puissans  ar  after  them  ;  and  the  moost  part 
of  gentilmen  and  men  of  worship  ar  comen  yn  to  the  Kyng, 
and  have  grace,  of  all  Wales. 

The  Due  of  Somerset,  the  Lord  Hungerford,  Robert 
Whityngham,  and  oder  iiij.  or  v.  Squyers  are  comen  into 
Normandy  out  of  Scotland,  and  as  yette  they  stand  strete 
under  arest ;  and  as  merchauntes  that  ar  comen  late  thens  sey," 
they  ar  like  to  be  demed  and  jugged  prisoners.  My  Lord 
Wenlok,  Sir  John  Cley,  and  the  Dean  of  Seynt  Severyens,  have 
abiden  at  Cales  thise  iij.  wikes,  and  yette  ar  there,  abidyng  a 
saufconduit,  goyng  uppon  an  ambassate  to  the  Frenshe  Kyng  ; 
and  Sir  Wauter  Blount,  Tresorer  of  Cales,  with  a  grete  feleship 
of  souldeours  of  Cales,  and  many  oder  men  of  the  Marches, 
have  leyn,  and  yette  doo,  at  a  seege  afore  the  Castell  of 
Hampmes,  by  side  Cales,  and  deily  make  gret  werre,  either 
parte  toother. 

Item,  I  send  unto  you  a  copy  of  a  letter  that  was  taken 
uppon  the  see,  made  by  the  Lord  Hungerford  and  Whytyng- 
ham. 

Item,  we  shall  have  a  gret  ambassate  out  of  Scotland  in  all 
hast  of  Lordes. 

At  your  comaundement,  and  Servaunt, 

Henry  Wyndesore. 

*  Henry  Holland.     He  married  Anne,  sister  of  King  Edward  iv.,  but  remained  a 
steady  Lancastrian,  and  was  attainted  this  year  in  Parliament. 
^  Jasper  Tudor,  half-brother  of  Henry  vi. 
JI2 


EDWARD  IV 

484 

CLEMENT  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  his  right  reverent  and  worshipfiill  broder^  John  Paston^ 
Esquier^  be  this  'delivered  in  great  haste. 

BROTHER,  I  recommende  me  to  you.  After  all  dewe  146 1 
recommendacions,  &c.  Sir,  it  was  tolde  me  by  rythe  oct.  i  i 
a  worshipfull  man  that  loveth  you  rythe  well,  and  ye 
him,  and  ye  sail  knowe  his  name  hereafter,  but  put  all  things 
out  of  doubt  he  is  such  a  man  as  will  not  lye  :  on  the  xj'''  day 
of  October  the  Kinge  said,  *  We  have  sent  two  privy  sealys  to 
Paston  by  two  yeomen  of  our  chamber,  and  he  disobeyeth 
them  ;  but  we  will  send  him  anoder  tomorrowe,  and  by  Gods 
mercye,  and  if  he  come  not  then  he  sail  dye  for  it.  We  will 
make  all  oder  men  beware  by  him  how  they  sail  disobey  our 
writinge.  A  servant  of  our  hath  made  a  complainte  of  him. 
I  cannot  thinke  that  he  hath  informed  us  all  truely,  yet  not  for 
that,  we  will  not  suffer  him  to  disobey  our  writinge  ;  but  sithen 
he  disobeyeth  our  writinge,  we  may  beleve  the  better  his 
gydinge  is  as  we  be  informed.'  And  therwith  he  made  a  great 
avowe  that  if  he  [jy^]  come  not  at  the  third  commandement  ye 
xulde  dye  therefore.  This  man  that  told  me  this  is  as  well 
learned  a  man  as  any  is  in  England  ;  and  the  same  xj'*'  day  of 
October,  he  advised  me  to  send  a  man  to  yow  in  all  the  hast 
that  might  be  to  lett  yow  have  knowlache,  and  that  ye  xulde 
not  lett  for  none  excuse,  but  that  ye  xulde  make  the  man 
good  cheere  and  come  as  hastily  ye  might  to  the  Kinge,  for  he 
understandeth  so  much  that  the  King  will  keep  his  promise. 
Notwithstanding,  by  mine  advice,  if  ye  have  his  letter  or  the 
messenger  come  to  you,  come  to  the  Kinge  wards  or  ye  meet 

*  This  letter  is  reprinted  from  the  Norfolk  Archarologyy  vol.  iv.  p.  a6,  where  it  is 
edited  from  a  transcript  contained  in  a  MS.  genealogy  of  the  Paston  family  drawn  up 
by  Sandford,  author  of  the  Genealogical  History  of  England.  The  references  to 
Howard's  animosity  against  Paston,  and  to  an  approaching  Parliament,  prove  clearly 
that  this  letter  is  of  the  year  14.61. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

I461     with  him,  and  when  ye  come  ye  must  be  suer  of  a  great  excuse. 

OCT-"  Also  if  ye  doe  well,  come  right  stronge,  for  Howards  wife 
made  her  host  that  if  any  of  her  husbands  men  might  come  to 
yow  ther  yulde  goe  noe  penny  for  your  life  ;  and  Howard 
hath  with  the  Kinge  a  great  fellowship. 

This  letter  was  written  the  same  day  that  the  Kinge  said 
these  words,  and  the  same  day  that  it  was  told  me,  and  that 
day  was  the  xj*''  day  of  October  as  abovesaid  ;  and  on  the  next 
morning  send  I  forth  a  man  to  yow  with  this  letter,  and  on 
the  same  day  send  the  Kinge  the  third  privye  seale  to  you. 
Also  he  that  tolde  me  this  seid  that  it  were  better  for  yow  to 
come  up  than  to  be  fotte  out  of  your  house  with  streingth,  and 
to  abide  the  Kings  judgement  therin,  for  he  will  take  your 
contumacy  to  great  displeasure.  Also,  as  I  understand,  the 
Duke  of  NorfFolk  hath  made  a  great  complaint  of  yow  to 
the  King,  and  my  Lord  of  Suffolk  ^  and  Howard  and  Wyng- 
felde  helpe  well  to  every  day  and  call  upon  the  King  against 
yow.  The  Kinge  is  at  this  day  at  Grenewich,  and  ther  will 
be  still  till  the  Parliament  beginne.  Some  say  he  will  goe  to 
Walsingham,  but  Mr.  Sotyll  seid  in  the  aulle  in  the  Temple 
that  he  harde  no  worde  of  any  such  pilgrimage.  No  more, 
&c.     Written  the  xj'**  day  of  October  at  midnight. 

My  nevew  John  tolde  me  also  that  he  supposed  ther  were 
out  proclamacions  against  yow,  &c.  the  same  day. 

By  Clement  Paston, 
your  broder. 

*  John  de  la  Pole,  son  and  heir  of  William,  Duke  of  SuHToIk,  who  was  attainted 
in  1450,  was  not  restored  to  the  Dukedom  till  the  23rd  of  March  1463  ;  but  being  in 
favour  at  court,  and  having  married  Edward  iv.'s  sister,  he  seems  even  at  this  time  to 
have  been  popularly  called  *  my  Lord  of  Suffolk.' 


3H 


EDWARD  IV 

485 

RICHARD  CALLE  TO  JOHN  PASTON 

To  my  ryght  reverent  and  wurschipfull  maystre^  my 
mastre  John  Fasten. 

PLESITH  it  your  maystreschlp  to  witte  that  Mr.  John  1461 
and  I,  with  other  mo,  have  ben  at  Cotton  on  Friday'  oct.  13 
last  passed,  and  there  Jenney  had  do  warned  the  corte 
there  to  be  the  same  Friday,  and  he  was  at  Eye  at  the  cescions 
the  Thorsday  before  ;  and  on  the  Friday  in  the  mornynge  he 
was  comyng  to  Cotton  to  hoolde  the  corte  there.  And  it 
fortuned  we  had  entred  the  place  or  he  come  ;  and  he  herd 
therof  and  turned  bac  a  yein  to  Oxon*  to  my  Lorde  of 
Norwiche,  and  there  dyned  with  hym.  And  my  Lorde  sent 
Mr.  John  Colleman  to  Cotton  Halle  to  speke  with  you ;  and 
at  hes  comyng  he  undrestode  ye  were  not  there,  and  if  ye  had, 
my  Lorde  desired  you  to  come  and  spoken  with  hym,  and 
that  my  Lorde  desired  to  put  your  matre  in  a  trety  ;  in  so 
moche  that  Mr.  John  Colleman  tolde  to  my  master,  John 
Paston,  that  diverse  of  your  elmees  [enemies]  had  labored  to 
my  Lorde  to  have  a  trety  if  he  cowde  brynge  it  aboute,  &c. 
And  as  for  the  tenaunts  they  wolde  not  come  at  the  place  on 
to  the  tyme  that  I  sent  for  hem,  for  they  sey  pleynly  they 
woU  not  have  a  do  with  hem ;  and  so  the  corte  whas  holden 
in  your  name,  and  the  tenaunts  ryght  weele  plesed  ther  of, 
excepte  Thurnberne  and  Agas,  and  as  for  any  socour,  they 
have  there  ryght  noone  at  all.  And  so  Mr.  John  whas  ther 
Friday  all  day  and  Saterday  tyll  none  ;  and  than  he  toke  hes 
horse  with  xxx.  men  with  hym  and  rode  to  Jeney  place,  and 
toke  there  xxxvj.  heede  of  nete,  and  brought  hem  in  to 
Norfolk  ;  and  so  whas  I  left  still  at  Cotton  with  xij.  men  with 
me,  be  cauce  they  reporte  and  we  abode  there  ij.  dayes  we 

'  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]    On  comparing  this  letter  with  No.  481,  no  one  will 
doubt  that  both  were  written  in  the  same  year. 

2  9th  October.  •  Hoxne. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1 46 1  schulde  be  pult  out  be  the  heeds.  And  so  we  a  mode  [?«^o^(?] 
OCT.  13  there  v.  dayes  and  kepte  the  place,  and  I  walked  aboute  all  the 
lordeschippes  and  spake  with  all  the  fermours  and  tennaunts 
that  longen  to  the  maner  to  undrestande  her  disposessyon  and 
to  receyve  money  of  hem  ;  and  I  fynde  [them]  ryght  weele 
disposed  to  you.  And  be  cauce  the  corte  whas  warned  in  ther 
name  and  not  in  youre,  therfore  they  purvey  no  money  ;  but 
they  have  promysed  me  to  pay  no  money  to  no  man  but  to 
you,  so  that  ye  woU  safe  hem  harmeles ;  and  I  told  hem  ye 
wold  safe  hem  harmeles.  They  have  apoynted  with  me  to 
make  redy  her  money  withinne  a  fornyght  aftre  Halowemesse, 
&c.  I  have  receyved  of  the  tenaunts  that  I  undrestod  out 
\_owed^  you  werst  wyll  viij.  marc,  &c.  And  as  for  Edward 
Dalys  money  it  is  redy,  so  that  your  maistreschip  woU  se  that 
he  be  not  hurt  be  hes  obligacion.  Ferthermore,  plesit  your 
maistreschip  to  sende  worde  if  they  entre  into  the  maner  ayein, 
how  we  schall  be  rwled  and  gidyd  ;  for  the  tenaunts  fere  hem 
they  wol  entre  whan  we  be  gon,  and  than  wol  they  distreync 
the  tenaunts,  for  they  scy  there  that  my  Lorde  of  Cauntyr- 
bury  and  other  Lords  woll  relese  to  hem,  notwithstandyng 
that  I  have  enformed  hem  other  wice  ;  wherfore,  savyng  your 
better  advice,  me  semethe  it  were  ryght  weele  doo  that  ye  had 
a  letter  of  my  Lorde  of  Cauntirbury,  and  other  to  the  tenaunts 
of  Cotton  that  it  is  her  wyll  and  entent  that  ye  schulde  have 
the  rwle  and  gouernaunce,  and  receyve  the  money  of  that 
maner,  and  other  that  were  Sir  John  FastolfF,  on  whom  God 
have  mercy,  for  I  dought  not  and  suche  a  lettre  came  downe 
to  the  tenaunts  there  schulde  no  man  sey  nay  to  it.  Besech- 
yng  your  maystreschyp  to  have  an  answere  of  how  we  schall 
be  gided  and  rwled,  &c.  Item,  to  sende  worde  howe  we 
schall  doo  with  the  geere  that  wee  toke  out  at  the  Wyght 
Freris,  wether  it  schall  be  sent  to  you  or  nought.  And  Jesu 
preserve  you.  Wreten  at  Norwiche  upon  Sein  Edwards  Day. 
Be  your  servaunt  and  bedman, 

Ric.  Calle. 

Endorsed  in  a  hand  nearly  contimporaneout :    'Litter'  sirca  anno  (/;V)  E.  4     iij. 
vel  iiij"-' 


EDWARD  IV 

486 

WILLIAM  NAUNTON  TO  JOHN  P ASTON,  SENIORS 

To  my  Master  Paston,  the  elder^  be  thys  letter 

delyveryd  in  hast. 

RYGHT  wurchypful  sir,  I  recommend  me  to  zour  good  1 46 1 
masterchyp.  The  cause  qwy  I  wryth  I  let  zour  have  oct. 
knowlech  of  the  mene  that  be  in  Cotton  Halle,  how 
they  be  strangely  dysposyd  ageyns  zow  ;  for,  as  I  here  say, 
they  make  revell  there.  They  melt  led  and  brek  down  zour 
bregg,  and  make  that  no  man  go  in  to  [the]  place  but  on  a 
ledder,  and  make  them  as  strong  as  they  kan  a  geyns  zow  be 
the  supportacion  of  Jeney  and  Debenham,  and  hys  sone ;  for 
they  seye  ther  that  Jeney  hath  sold  the  lyflod  on  to  Debynham, 
and  that  hys  son  the  knyth  shall  dwell  ther,  and  ther  forr  they 
have  warnyd  a  cort  ageyns  Munday,  and  now  they  ar  a  vysed 
to  kepyt  on  Saturday  be  forr  Munday.  Qwat  they  mene 
therby  I  wot  never,  but  as  for  the  felechyp  in  the  place  that 
ys  there  now,  and  have  be  here  al  thys  weke,  there  ys  no  man 
of  substans,  as  we  here,  and  there  have  be  but  vij.  or  viij.  al 
thys  wyke  ;  but  there  wyll  be  a  gret  felechyp  thys  nyth  or  to 
morwe  up  on  Saturday,  for  than  they  wyl  kepe  the  cort.  And 
as  for  Edward  Dale,  he  dar  not  abyde  wyl  at  hom,  they  thret 
hym  so,  be  cause  he  wyl  send  them  no  vytaly.  And  as  for 
me  self,  Edward  Dale  dar  not  let  me  wyll  \weir\  be  there  for 
takyng  in  suspecyon.  And  jas  for  the  tenaunts,  they  be  wel 
dysposyd  except  j.  or  ij.,  so  that  ze  wyl  support  them  in  hast, 
for  they  may  nowt  kepe  of  ther  katel  of  the  ground  long  ;  and 
specyally  they  desyr  to  have  zowr  owne  presens,  and  they  wold 
be  of  gret  cownfort.  No  mor  I  wryth  to  zour,  but  the  Holy 
Gost  have  zour  in  kepyng.  Wretyn  on  the  Fryday  after  my 
departyng.  Be  your  Scrvaunt, 

Wyllyam  Nanton. 

1  [From  Fenn,  iii.  4.14.]  This  letter  corresponds  so  closely  with  the  next  in  what 
is  said  about  the  occupants  of  Cotton  Hall,  that  it  is  clear  they  were  both  written  about 
the  same  time. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


487 

RICHARD  CALLE  TO  JOHN  PASTON,  JUNIOR  1 

'To  the  right  worschipfull  sir  and  maistrey 
John  Pas  ton  jun.y  esquyer. 

1 46 1      I  'J  YGHT  worschipfull  sir,  I  recomaunde  me  unto  your 
°*^'        1%      mastreschip,  certifiyng  you  that  Jenney  and  Yelverton 
"*■  hathe  certified  up  in  to  the  Kynges  Benche  inssur- 

recions  [and]  congregacions  a  yenste  me  ;  wherupon  they  have 
sente  to  the  scheryff  a  writte  chargyng  hym  in  peyne  of  Qli. 
to  brynge  me  in  to  the  Kyngs  Benche  the  morwe  after  Sein 
Marteyn.  And  this  daye  the  seide  Jenney  hathe  sent  doune 
to  the  scheryff  an  other  writte  called  an  habeas  corpus  retornable 
crastino  Animarum^  weche  schalbe  on  Twesday  next  comyng  be 
cauce  they  were  in  dought  and  in  greete  feere  that  I  schulde 
have  ben  aquytte  of  the  inditement  of  fellony  now  at  this  gayle 
delyverye.  And  also  my  maistre  hathe  sente  an  other  writte 
for  me  retornable  at  the  seid  crastino  Animarum.  And  so  I 
am  like  to  ride  to  London  warde  to  morwe.  And  the  scheryff 
wold  make  me  to  fynde  suerte  that  I  schulde  appere  in  the 
Kyngs  Benche  the  seid  daye  ;  and  yet,  that  notwithstandyng, 
he  wolde  send  me  with  strengthe  of  men  as  a  presoner  ;  and  if 
any  thynge  schall  cauce  me  that  I  goo  not  up  to  London,  it 
schalbe  be  cauce  I  woll  fynde  no)  suerte ;  for  in  cas  he  wold 
have  suffred  me  to  have  gon  up  be  my  selfe  at  myn  owne 
coste,  I  wolde  have  founde  hym  suertee.  And  so  at  the 
makyng  of  this  bille  we  were  not  fully  condesended  hough  we 
schulde  doo.  My  mastre  is  in  goode  hele,  blissed  be  Godd, 
and  dothe  and  schall  doo  ryght  weele  in  alle  hes  maters.    Ther 

*  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  was  written  in  a  year  in  which  the 
morrow  of  All  Souls'  Day  {i.e.  the  jrd  November)  fell  on  Tuesday.  The  Dominical 
letter  of  the  year  must  therefore  be  D.  This  was  the  case  in  146 1,  and  no  other  year 
will  suit  a  letter  addressed  to  John  Paston,  junior.  For  if  we  go  back  there  is  no 
earlier  year  in  which  D  was  the  Dominical  letter  till  we  come  to  14.50,  when  John 
Paston,  junior,  was  only  ten  years  old  j  and  if  we  go  forward  the  next  is  1467,  which 
was  after  John  Paston  the  father's  death. 


EDWARD  IV 

is  an  ongracious  felaschip  of  hem  and  a  fals.  They  have  sent  1461 
for  FitzraiF  and  Schipdam,  be  a  citacion  for  the  proffe  of  the  o^t- 
testement,  and  alle  is  but  for  to  delay  it  ;  yet  it  were  weele 
done  ye  rode  over  to  Fitzraff  and  felte  hes  disposicion  how  he 
woll  be  disposed,  and  in  like  wice  with  Schipdam,  for  I  have 
spoken  with  hem  of  that  matre,  in  cas  that  any  citacion  come 
doun  for  hem,  how  they  wolde  be  disposed,  and  I  have  founde 
the  too  straunchely  disposed.  God  send  us  a  good  scheryf 
thys  yere,  and  thanne  we  schalle  do  weele  inough,  be  the  grace 
of  God. 

And,  sir,  your  man  tolde  me  that  ye  desired  to  knowe  the 
demenyng  at  Cotton  of  the  tenaunts  and  other.  I  lete  you 
wete  the  moste  parte  of  alle  the  tenaunts  have  bene  here 
with  me  for  to  see  me,  and  they  have  tolde  me  all  the  de- 
menyng as  it  is  undrewrete.  Furst,  as  for  the  money  that 
they  recey  ved  there  it  drwe  upon  a  xxiiij'*  //.  and  more  silver, 
for  the  tenaunts  myght  not  cheese  but  they  moste  nedes 
paye,  for  they  distreyned  on  my  Lords  of  Suffolk  fee,  my 
Lords  of  Norwich  fee,  and  on  all  men  grounde,  so  that 
they  myght  not  have  her  catell  in  reste,  weche  cauced  hem 
to  paye  her  money.  I  knowe  weele  i  nough  who  payed  and 
wo  paied  not.  All  the  grete  fermours  have  payed.  And  as 
for  the  kepyng  of  the  place  ther  be  therin  iiij.  men,  and  on 
of  Debenham  men,  called  Sokelyng,  and  hes  wyfF,  and  on 
Mannyng,  a  tenaunt,  a  fals  knave  ;  and  they  have  enforced 
them  as  stronke  as  they  kan,  and  they  have  broken  doune  the 
brigge  and  have  leide  a  planke  over,  in  cas  that  ye  go  theder  ye 
may  not  come  at  Dale  is  howce  in  no  waie,  for  he  have  had 
meche  trouble  for  my  mastre  and  for  me  ;  but  and  ye  wolde 
gete  my  Lords  meane  and  pulle  the  knaves  out  be  the  heede, 
it  were  weele  done.  I  purpose  me  to  com  hom  warde  that 
same  wey.  Item,  I  lete  you  witte  that  the  gayle  delyverye 
holdeth  not  this  daye,  and  alle  is  doone  be  cauce  of  mec, 
Jenney  wolde  not  lete  the  clerke  of  peas  come  hether  this 
daye  for  feere  that  I  schulde  have  been  aquytte  of  the 
felony e,  for  in  trouthe  and  tho  it  had  holden,  I  had  founde 
the  meane  for  to  have  ben  quytte,  for  I  whas  through  with 
the  scheryfF  and  panel  made  aftyr  myn  avice  ;  but  though  the 

319 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1 46 1  gayle  delyver  had  holden,  I  cowde  not  have  ben  delyverd, 
OCT-  becauce  of  thes  writtes  that  be  come  downe.  Item,  the 
scheryfF  hathe  a  grete  losse  that  this  daye  holdethe  not,  for 
ther  schulde  have  ben  quytte  xl.  men  this  daye.  Item,  the 
scheryfF  tolde  me  that  my  maistre  tolde  hym  that  I  whas 
assent  to  my  takyng  at  Scoolys,  weche  was  to  me  ryght 
greete  hevynes  and  discomforture  nough  in  my  trouble. 
And  God  knoweth  it  was  never  my  wylle  ner  myn  entent,  as 
I  mot  be  saved  at  the  dredful  day  of  Dome  ;  for  ther  is  no 
man  so  sore  hurte  as  I  am  be  the  takyng,  bothe  in  losse,  and 
also  in  reprefe  of  myn  owne  persoune  and  of  my  frends,  with- 
oute  that  my  mastre  be  my  good  maistre,  as  I  truste  he  wolle 
be,  or  elles  I  am  disseyved.  He  hathe  my  trewe  servyce  and 
shal  have  whylle  that  I  leve,  what  so  ever  his  mastreschip  do 
to  me,  but  I  can  thynke  he  hathe  be  enformed  be  myn  elmyes 
[enemies']  that  wold  make  hym  disp[l]esed  with  me,  and  to 
be  myn  evy  [heavy]  mastre,  but  dissimulacion  dothe  muche 
harme,  &c.  I  reporte  me,  &c.  No  more  to  you  at  this 
tyme,  but  Jesu  kepe  you,  and  send  you  as  much  fortune 
and  grace  as  I  wolde  ye  had,  &c.  I  beseche  [you]  to  be  my 
goode  mastre  as  ye  have  be,  for  I  never  deserved  nor  wol 
deserve  the  contrary. 

Your  servaunt,  Ric.  Callb, 
presoner. 


END  OF  VOLUME   III 


Printed  by  T.  and  A.  Constable,  Printert  to  Hi*  Majesty 
at  the  Edinburgh  University  Press 


fma  *im^»»  <■< 


DA      Faston  letters 

2AD  The   last on  letters 

P32 

190^ 

V..3 


PLEASE  DO  NOT  REMOVE 
CARDS  OR  SLIPS  FROM  THIS  POCKET 

UNIVERSITY  OF  TORONTO  LIBRARY 


