











Deeds: A.2901 - A.3000 | British History Online
















Skip to main content

















BHO | British History Online







Main navigation












Browse Catalogue


Subject guides


Using BHO


About


Subscribe


News












Login






Login


Register































';" aria-label="breadcrumb">
Breadcrumb


Home


A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds










Deeds: A.2901 - A.3000










A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 2. 


Originally published by Her Majesty's Stationery Office, London, 1894.






This free content was digitised by double rekeying. All rights reserved. 






Citation:

BHO
Chicago
MLA		




'Deeds: A.2901 - A.3000', in A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 2, ed.  H C Maxwell Lyte (London,  1894), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol2/pp132-144 [accessed 3 July 2026].





'Deeds: A.2901 - A.3000', in A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 2. Edited by   H C Maxwell Lyte (London,  1894), British History Online,  accessed July 3, 2026,
https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol2/pp132-144.





"Deeds: A.2901 - A.3000". A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 2. Ed.  H C Maxwell Lyte (London, 1894), British History Online. Web. 3 July 2026. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol2/pp132-144.














Keyword Highlight

Search









A.2901 - A.3000





[Norf.]

A. 2901. Release by Thomas Estrild of Heveringlond to the prior
and canons of Mountjoy in Heveringlond, of all his right to a messuage [in
Heveringlond] which his father held of the said canons for life. Wednesday
after St. Ambrose the Bishop, 10 Edward III.



[Norf.]

A. 2902. Grant by the prior and convent of Mountjoy in Heveringlond, to Thomas Estrild, Margaret his wife, and Estrilda his mother, for
their lives, of a messuage with house thereon in Heveringlond, paying 21d.
yearly. Friday before St. Tiburcius and St. Valerian, 10 Edward III.




A. 2903. Duplicate of A. 2901, omitting the mention of Estrild's
father.



[Norf.]

A. 2904. Grant by John ate Mille of Heveringlond, to Walter
Coupere of Hachustune, William Dousing of Heveringlond, Robert Warde,
chaplain, and Thomas his brother of Welingham, of land in Heveringlond
abutting on the highway from Standingcros to Swythfordelane, and meadow
in Felthorp. Sunday after the Purification, 10 Richard II. Seal.



[Norf.]

A. 2905. Grant by Adam Gregg of Westwalton, to Simon Baret and
John Neland of a messuage with a toft and land in Walpole and Westwalton, with the right of having liberum taurum et liberum aprum, which
were Juliana's, late the wife of Richard de Betele formerly bedel of the
University of Cambridge. 20 February, 11 Henry IV.

[Page 133]


[Norf.]

A. 2906. Grant by Nicholas son of Geoffrey Rydel of Wroxham, to
Ralph son of Richard le Paumer of Stanehnle, of land in Felthorp which
Ralph son of Edric, the clerk of Heymford, bought of Geoffrey aforesaid,
paying 3s. yearly, but without power of sale to religious houses or to Jews.
Witnesses:—Sir John de Estru, Nicholas de Thaverham, and others
(named).



[Norf.]

A. 2907. Grant by Richard the prior and the convent of Westacre,
to Henry de Wykes, of land in Wykes, part lying east and part west of 'le
Sik,' and two pieces of turbary, paying 9d. yearly. Witnesses:—Sirs
Richard de Bellus and John de Wygal, knights, and others (named).



[Norf.]

A. 2908. Release by William, son of Ralph Dalyzon of Hakebeche,
to John de Avyun, the prior, and the monks of St. Pancras's, Lewes, for
30s., of all his right in 5 acres of land 'Thangburn' lying in Walsoken.
Witnesses:—William son of Hugh de Pynkeneye, and others (named).



[Norf.]

A. 2909. Release by Joce son of Nicholas Joce of Walpol, to
Peter de Joceaux the prior, and the convent of Lewes, of all his right in
1d. yearly rent issuing from their mill in Walpol, with the site of the same.
Sunday after St. Ambrose the Bishop, 13 Edward III. Seal.



[Norf.]

A. 2910. Grant by William London of Weston, to Thomas Wodehowse, of land in Weston, part adjoining land called 'Chalfecroft' and a
tillage called 'Ipworthe,' part at 'le Wodehawis' adjoining land of the
master of St. Thomas's Hospital, Southwark. 24 June, 1 Edward V.
Seal.



[Norf.]

A. 2911. Release by Beatrice daughter of Adam de Hatfeld, to Sir
Hugh the abbot, and the convent of Ramsey, of all her right in land which
her father held of their fee in Walsoke. Witnesses:—Master Gilbert de
Wepstede, John de Sulegrave, Peter de Stowe, and others (named).
Morrow of the Annunciation, A.D. 1263.



[Norf.]

A. 2912. Grant by John de Bray of Barthon', to William son of
Herbert of Stoul,for eight shillings, of half an acre in Barthon'. by the road
called 'Wyteweye.' Witnesses:—John de Ward, Master Henry Carpentar,
and others (named).



[Norf.]

A. 2913. Release by Alexander son of Matthew de Walsokne to Sir
William the abbot, and the convent of Ramsey, of all his right in the land
in Walsokne he inherited from Master William his brother, and in the land
they hold by his grant. For this release they have given him 5s. out of
hand and will pay him 5s. yearly for life. Witnesses:—William de Stowe,
steward of Ramsey, and others (named). St. Stephen's day, A.D. 1285.



[Norf.]

A. 2914. Release by James son of Philip de Fenne, of Tylne, to Sir
John de Avyon, the prior, and the monks of Lewes, for 60s., of all his
right in the lands and rents that Jocelin son of Peter, held in Walpolle.
Witnesses:—Sirs Henry de Walpolle, John de Wygehale, Walter de
Denever, knights, and others (named).



[Norf]

A. 2915. Restitution by Ralph, vicar of a moiety of Walpol church,
with consent of Alexander, the rector of the same moiety, to the house of
Lewes, of the tithe of wheat in Fridland and Redland in the parish of
Walpol, violently withheld by Adam his predecessor, for which he has also
given satisfaction. Witnesses:—R. prior of Acre, Master Alexander de
Walpol, Master Peter de Mares, and others (named). Walton, March.
A.D. 1229.

Endorsed: "Walpol Mersselond,"

[Page 134]


[Middx.]

A. 2916. Release by Gilbert the prior and the convent of Holy
Trinity London, to Walter Trentemars, of all their right in 10 acres in
Stebehethe Marsh that were Christina Mainard's. Witnesses:—Stephen
vicar of Stebehethe, Hamo de Bedefont, Hugh Belebarbe, and others
(named).



[Norf.]

A. 2917. Grant by Thomas de Lewes, rector of the moiety of Walpole
church for the portion of Lewes, to Richard de Betelee of Lyng and
Juliana his wife, Thomas's sister, of a messuage with houses thereon
and a toft adjoining in Walpole, abutting on the common way called 'Est
Drove,' with the right of having liberum taurum et liberum aprum, &c.
Cambridge, Monday after the Purification, 26 Edward III. Seal of arms.



Norf.

A. 2918. Bond of John called 'Chamberlain' of Leverington, and
Joan his wife, to come when required to acknowledge the release they have
made to the prior and convent of Lewes of their right in a windmill in
Walpolle by the death of Jocelin, son of Nicholas de Walpol, Joan's
former husband, before the King's justices in eyre in Norfolk or elsewhere,
at the convent's expense; or else to make good the damages incurred by
the convent through their non-appearance. West Walton, Thursday after
St. Leonard, A.D. 1285.



[Norf.]

A. 2919. Release by Ralph son of Nicholas le Loverd, to William
de Manchen's, for 24s., of all his right in 3½ bushels of wheat and the
moiety unius carmeri which he was wont to receive yearly from the
latter's manor of Wineford. Witnesses:—Sirs William de Bukaham, John
de Ho, Eudo de Selfangers, and others (named).



[Norf.]

A. 2920. Release by Godekyn de Ryvele to Thomas de Lewes, of all
his right in a messuage with 14 acres of land in Walpole. Thursday
after St. Mark the Evangelist, 21 Edward III.



[Norf.]

A. 2921. Grant by John Brok to Walter Terry of Westwalton, of a
messuage with a toft containing 14 acres in Walpole, abutting on the
common way called 'Estdrove,' with the right of having liberum taurum et
liberum aprum. 20 July, 16 Richard II.



[Norf.]

A. 2922. Release by Hawis, Agnes and Basilia, daughters and heiresses
of Adam Payn of Walsoken to Sir William the abbot, and the convent of
Ramsey, for 40s., of all their right in land in Walsoken in a place called
'Wateleye' abutting on 'le Meredich.' Witnesses:—Walter le Curteys,
Master Stephen de Walsoken, and others (named).



[Norf.]

A. 2923. Release by Joan, late the wife of Joselin son of Nicholas de
Walepole, with consent of John called 'Chamberlain' of Liverington, her
husband, to John, the prior, and the convent of Lewes, of all her right
in the windmill and its site in Walepole which she claimed of them after
the death of the said Joselin by writ of dower before the King's justices
in Banco. Witnesses:—William de Seggeford, and others (named).



[Norf.]

A. 2924. Grant by brother Milo, prior of St. Pancras of Lewes, with
consent of his convent, to Master Robert de Fulburne, clerk, for life, of a
croft in Walpole adjoining his messuage, with reversion to the convent at
his death. Tuesday after Palm Sunday, A.D. 1268.



[Norf.]

A. 2925. Grant by Ralph son of Lemmari de Welles, to the monks
of Ramsey in frank almoin of the homage of Osbern son of Wulfric by Delf
and the servicc he owes for land his father held of Ralph in Welles, viz. 2s.
yearly. Witnesses:—William le Curteis, Thomas de Thurlebi, chaplain,
Gilbert formerly doorkeeper at Ramsey, and others (named).

[Page 135]


[Norf.]

A. 2926. Release by Alexander son of Walter de Hagebeche, to the
prior and convent of St. Pancras's, Lewes, of all his right in a croft at
Welles called 'Pokedikcroft,' for which they have remitted to him the
arrears due to them from that tenement estimated at 40s. Witnesses:—
William Rustenc, Ralph de Walpol, William de Sculham, and others
(named).



[Norf.]

A. 2927. Letters of attorney of Thomas de Lewes, rector of the moiety
of Walpole church for the portion of Lewes, empowering Ralph Bygeneye,
Sir Henry Jake, chaplain, and John Child to deliver to Richard de Betelee
of Lyng, and Juliana his wife, full seisin of a messuage with toft adjacent in
Walpole. Cambridge, Tuesday after the Purification. 26 Edward III.



[Norf.]

A. 2928. Grant by Walter Terry of West Walton, to Adam Gregge,
of the same, John atte Hil, and Adam Goche, of Walpole, of a messuage
with toft adjoining containing 14 acres in Walpole, abutting on the common
way called 'Estdrove.' Thursday before St. Luke the Evangelist,
16 Richard II.



[Norf.]

A. 2929. Acknowledgment by Agnes daughter of Adam de Walepol,
in presence of Sir William the prior of Lewes, that she owes the said prior
and convent 34s. 4d. yearly rent for the tenement that descended to her in
Walepol and Wautune through Sir Ralph de Walepol her brother. In
Wautune church, Thursday before St. John the Baptist, A.D. 1252.



Norf.

A. 2930. Grant by John the prior, and the convent of St. Pancras
at Lewes to John de Roehefort, Walter Godard and Richard atte Boure, of
land in Walpole, abutting on 'le drove' and le 'Breredyeh' formerly
Thomas Tyler's, paying 14d. yearly. 2 October, 22 Richard II.



[Norf.]

A. 2931. Sale by Guy de Walpol and William and Godfrey his sons
of their croft by Waltun to Osbert, dean of Lewes, for 60s. they owed him
and 18s. which he gave for them to the provosts of Waltun, and because he
has released the croft and for two oxen and one horse, and because he has
liberated them from the claim of the White Monks and from the difficulties
they were in "pro societate Willelmi Dodestreun . . . (?)." Witnesses:—
Alvered de Hacgb', Peter son of Ach', Ralph son of Ansgod, William the
deacon, and the whole soke of Waltun and Walpol.

Endorsed: "Merslonde."



[Norf.]

A. 2932. Grant by Bartholomew son of Walter . . . ly of Walpole,
to Thomas de Leuys, rector of the church of Walpol for the portion of
Lewes, and Godkin de Revele, of a messuage with fourteen acres adjoining
in Walpol, abutting on the common way called 'Estdrave.' Witnesses:—
John le Colvylle and William Louvel, knights, and others (named).
Thursday after Martinmas, 15 Edward III. Seal. Injured.



[Norf.]

A. 2933. Release by Richard son of John Atteboure of Walpol, to
Sir Thomas de Lewis, rector of the church of Walpol on behalf of the prior
[of Lewes], of all his right in an acre in the field called 'Cokkiscote' in
Walpol. Wednesday after St. Thomas the Martyr, 23 Edward III.



[Norf.]

A. 2934. Sale by Lemmar de Walpol, Beatrice his wife, and Peter son
of Beatrice, to the monks of Lewes, for 8 marcs that Osbert the dean has paid
them, of twenty acres in Walpole, lying in Hirvecroft, Swineholm, Griseholm and Thrufled; and grant by Lemmar of three acres of his land to Osbert
for the use of St. Pancras' church. This sale he has sworn to in the church
of St. Nicholas at Lenne, and afterwards in the churchyard of St. James of
Acre, in presence of Sir Robert de Cailli, Richard and Hugh his brothers,
Simon de Cailli, Ralph de Sancto Germano, and others (named).

Endorsed: "Merslonde."

[Page 136]


[Norf.]

A. 2935. Grant by William de Gotham, Thomas de Marche, John de
Wysebeche and William de Fischwike to Richard de Betele, bedel of the
University of Cambridge, and Juliana his wife, of a messuage with toft of
14 acres in Walpole, abutting on the common way called 'Estdrove.'
Cambridge, Thursday after All Saints 42 Edward III. Seal and fragment of seal.



[Norf.]

A. 2936. Will of Simon Cowper priest of Wylton. Bequeaths 20d.
to the repair of Wylton church with the bells; 8d. each to St. James' gild,
our Lady gild and the gild of the Holy Ghost in Wylton; to the 'common
lythe with the torchys' in Wylton, 10d.; a combe of barley to each of the
four orders of friars; bequests to his godchildren, to various churches in
Essex, &c. 21 January, A.D. 1507. English.

Endorsed: Memorandum of probate at Norwich 14 January A.D. 1509.
Latin.



[Norf.]

A. 2937. Grant by the prior and convent of Lewes to Master Robert
de Fuleburne for his life of a moiety of a messuage in Walepole adjoining
his own messuage. Witnesses:—Henry de Sobbery, Thomas de Iford,
William de Pontibus, Richard de Meauton, Godfrey de Lewes, clerks, and
others (named).



[Norf.]

A. 2938. Certificate by the official of the archdeacon of Norwich to
Anthony bishop of Norwich, that the patronage of a moiety of the church
of Walpole belongs to the prior and convent of Lewes, who presented
William de Clif, by whose death on Thursday in Whitsun week the said
moiety is vacant; and that the King during the war with France took into
his own hands all advowsons of churches belonging to the said convent and
assigned them to John, Earl of Warren, who had presented Thomas de
Lewes, clerk, to the said moiety. The church is a pensionary, the convent
receiving 6 marcs from it yearly, and is taxed at 64 marcs: and the said
Thomas is twenty-six years old, in deacon's orders, and beneficed in Trunch
church, and there is no reason why he should not be admitted. All Saints'
church, Lenne, 4 June, A.D. 1339.



[Norf.]

A. 2939. Release by Alexander son of Matthew de Walsokene, to
Sir William, the abbot, and the convent of Ramsey, in frank almoin, of
land in Walsokene, part abutting on Fendiche, and part in the field called
'Middelmore,' abutting on Middelmorweye; and of six acres in Middelmor.
Witnesses:—Geoffrey de Marisco, John de Bygeneye, and others (named).



Norf.

A. 2940. Demise by John Nelonde to the prior and convent of Lewes,
of a messuage, a toft, land, and 12s. 3½d. rent in Walpole and Westwalton,
which formerly belonged to Juliana late the wife of Richard de Betele, bedel
of the University of Cambridge. St. Andrew's day, 4 Henry V. Seal.



[Norf.]

A. 2941. Grant by Alexander Elwyn son and heir of John Elwyn late
of Wisebeche, deceased, to Thomas Arle, of Ramsey, Gerard Foster, John
Wynde, and William Swasey, of the same, of land in Walsokyn in the
field called 'Newfeld' abutting on Newfendyke. 30 September,
3 Henry VII. Seal.



[Norf.]

A. 2942. Demise by John the prior, and the convent of St, Pancras
at Lewes to John de Brunne of Wyvelyngham, William Gedeneye and
Thomas Bangolf of Overe, of all tithes belonging to their moiety of the
churches of St. Peter and St. Andrew at Walpole, Norwich diocese, and
their house in Walpole, with the granges, garden and meadow belonging,
for five years from the feast of St. Peter ad Vincula last, paying 50l.
yearly in the hospice of the prior and convent at Southwark, London. The
prior and convent shall be quit of all burdens in respect of the premises,
except that if a tenth be granted to the King they shall pay it alternately
with the lessees, &c. Lewes, 31 October, 3 Henry IV.

[Page 137]


[Norf.]

A. 2943. Grant by Robert, the abbot, and the convent of Ramsey to
Stephen de Marisco and Geoffrey his son and heir, of all their land at
Walsochn and Enemethe, viz. a ninth part of all Enemethe, for their
lives; Stephen to pay 10 marcs yearly, and after his death Geoffrey to pay
10l. yearly. They retain the presentation to the church, and when they
demand aids from the other Abbey lands they shall take an adequate aid
from the men of Walsochn by the hands of Stephen and Geoffrey, and when
the abbot makes the circuit of the abbey towns, he shall have entertainment with Stephen and Geoffrey. Witnesses:—Walter de Stivecle, Master
Roger Fallac', Adam the parson of Walepol, Robert de Clarevaus, and
others (named). Ramsey, "Natal' Domini die quarto," 1 Richard I.



Norf.

A. 2944. Sale by Richard Reynold of London, mercer, to Christopher Coo of Byshoppys Lynn, Norfolk, gentleman, of all his messuages
lands, &c. in Saham Tony, Asshyll, Ovyngton, and Byshoppys Lynn, for
600l., to be paid in money, wares, and merchandise, of which 318l. 18s. 4d.
has been paid, and the residue is to be paid as follows, viz. 1900 spars
(six score to the hundred) for 25l., 1,000 boards called 'fyrsden deles' for
15l., to be delivered at London out of the 'John Baptist'; 200 quarters of
oats, six score to the hundred, for 48l., 60 quarters of wheat for 40l., and
38 'wete clothes' 24 yards long of Suffolk make for 152l., and 21s. 8d. in
money, the clothes to be delivered at London, and the oats wheat and
money at the waterside in Tyluey in Maryland, Norfolk. 8 September,
13 Henry VIII. English. Fragment of seal.



[Norf.]

A. 2945. Grant by Reginald son of Robert de Pokedhic, to Thomas
de Yford, for 40s., of two acres in Utwellys, paying ½d. yearly, and making
two perches of the marsh ditch at the head of the land towards the marsh.
Witnesses:—Thomas de Bocstede, Thomas de Denever, William Palmer,
and others (named). Seal.



[Norf.]

A. 2946. Grant by Henry 'Miles' of Senges, to William the Clerk
of Berc, of an acre of marsh in Senges marsh, abutting northwards on the
watercourse between Berc and Senges and southwards on the marsh of Sir
William Leneveyse; paying 8d. yearly. Witnesses:—Sirs Richard de
Senges, William his son, Alan de Mundham, and others (named).



[Norf.]

A. 2947. Grant by William son of Ralph Dalyzon of Hakebeche, to
the monks of St. Pancras's, Lewes, of a messuage called 'Blithewyk' with
thirty-six acres of land in Utwelle, which Thomas de Yford formerly bought
of him, after whose death it descended to Robert de Yford his brother, who
gave it to the said monks. Witnesses:—Sir Thomas de Sancto Homero,
Simon son of Agnes de Utwelles, and others (named).



[Norf.]

A. 2948. Grant by Thomas son of Walter de Burgo, to Thomas de
Yford, for 10 marcs, of land called 'Cnoppecroft,' containing 16 acres, in
Utwellys. Witnesses:—Sir Adam de Hagebeche, Robert de Covenham,
and others (named).

Endorsed: "Blezwyk. de Utwelles."



Norf.

A. 2949. Agreement between the prior and convent of Lewes and
Sir Thomas de Sancto Homero, knight, Simon le Curteys, John Ruth,
Richard the baker, Bartholomew Crane, William, Adam, Giles and Edmund
Frost, William Abbot, John Cady, Thomas and Seman Sewald, Thomas
de Tyrington, and all others, parceners commoners of Upwelles, concerning the prior and convent's claim to be parcener commoners in
Upwelles marsh. Sir Thomas and the rest grant the convent free common
of pasture in the marsh of Upwelles for all their own animals belonging to
their manor of West Walton, on condition that hereafter they can claim no
right for the animals of their foreign manors to pasture therein, and will
[Page 138]
aid the parceners of Upwelles to uphold their liberty in the said marsh
according to the quantity of their tenements, &c. Witnesses:—Sirs Adam
de Hakebeche and Walter de Denever, knights, William Dalizun, and
others (named). Injured.



[Norf.]

A. 2950. Grant by William de Warenna to the monks of St. Pancras's,
Lewes of the tenement that Richard de Snetesham and Geoffrey his
brother held in frank almoin of Reginald, William's father, in Scernebruna.
Witnesses:—Master Jordan de London', Ralph the Clerk of Tefford, Gilbert
de Blevilla, Richard de Perepunt, and others (named).



[Norf.]

A. 2951. Grant by Henry son of Ralph de Seingiis, to Robert
son of Hedric Godwin's son-in-law (Roberto filio Hedrici fil' Godwini in
lege), for 8s., of three acres all but one rood, viz. one acre at Robert's gale,
another at Segesmere, reaching to Vest Hil, and three roods at Brom Hil,
paying 8d. yearly and the service of the King and 'my lord the Earl.'
Witnesses:—Reiner d'Hoe, Robert Legris, and others (named).

Endorsed: "Berch'."



[Norf.]

A. 2952. Sale by Alexander de Walepolle, archdeacon of Suffolk, to
Martin, rector of Sculthorp, for one year, for 10 marcs, of all the great
and small tithes he has in Sculthorp of the gift of the prior and convent
of Lewes, issuing from the demesne of lady Eustacia de Pavely in Sculthorp and from the free land in the same town. The great tithes are to
be collected by Alexander's servants and laid up in a house by themselves.
The said year begins Monday before St. Botolph A.D. 1240; and if from
any cause be lose possession of his rectory within the year, or at the
completion of the year, the tithes shall revert to the archdeacon. Witnesses:—Master Robert de Karlewill', official of the archdeacon of
Norfolk, Master Simon [de] Norhamthon, parson of Shelmodeston, and
others (named). A.D. 1240.



[Norf.]

A. 2953. Demise by William son of Richer de Thimeltorp and
Beatrice his wife, to Sir Philip Basseit, of all their meadow called
'Redmedue' in the parish of Vicham, for ten years from Michaelmas
37 Henry III. Witnesses:—Stephen, vicar of Cherfeud, William
de Huntingefeud, Alexander Fairfox, and others (named). 37 Henry III.



[Norf.]

A. 2954. Certificate by Robert, the prior, and the convent of Acre
that they have received from Sir Hugh, the prior, and the convent of
Lewes all the tenement that belonged to William son of Hugh in
Ikcburc, to be held at a yearly rent of 11s.



[Norf.]

A. 2955. Grant by Robert, brother and heir of Thomas de Yfford,
steward of the prior of Lewes, to Milo the prior, and the convent of Lewes,
of the tenement that was his brother's in Utwelles. called 'Blezwyke,'
with land and the moiety of a fishery that the said Thomas bought in the
same town. Monday after St. Denys, A.D. 1271.



[Norf.]

A. 2956. Grant by Maurice son of Hugh of Sisland, to Godwin
Caim and Robert his son-in-law and Elvina his daughter, for 3s. and 9d.,
of land, part at Godwin's gate by Henry de Seinges's land, part at Seggesmere abutting on Vesthil, part on Grimeslond, paying 4d. yearly.
Witnesses:—Henry de Bram, Ralph de Bradeker, Richard de Wassigford,
and others (named).



[Norf.]

A. 2957. Grant by Robert le Bule and Mazelina his wife to Roger
de Clinc of Sprouton and Richard his son, for one marc, of a piece of land in
Sprontone, abutting on land of the prior of Ipswich, paying three halfpence
yearly. Witnesses:—William de Nordwode, William Warin, and others
(named). Wednesday after St. Lucy the Virgin, 11 Edward I. Two seals.

[Page 139]


[Norf.]

A. 2958. Grant by Mazelina relict of Robert le Bule to Richard de
Clink, of land and pasture in Sprouton that she and her late husband
formerly held of her inheritance. Witnesses:—Sir Nicholas de Sparkesforde,
William de Birchey, William de Norwode, and others (named). Monday
before St. Andrew, beginning of 14 Edward I.



[Norf.]

A. 2959. Grant by Simon Est, chaplain, and Simon de Mikelhil of
Sweynington, to Adam Underwode of Sweynington, and Agnes his wife,
for their lives of land called 'Longacris' in Sweynington, with remainder to Richard their son. Tuesday after St. Scholastica the Virgin,
15 Edward III. Seal.



[Norf.]

A. 2960. Grant by Ranulph son of Laurence de Walpolle, to Thomas
de Yford of land in Utwellys, lying by Pokedhic. Witnesses:—William
Palmer, Thomas de Bocstede, Thomas de Denever, and others (named).



Norf.

A. 2961. Sale by Christofer Coo of Lenn Bysshopp, Norfolk, esquire,
to Jaques Darnell of Manytre, Essex, clothier, of the messuage called
'the Gryffyn' in Lenn, all his lands and tenements in Bawesey by Gaywood, and 1,000 stone of Norfolk wool of 'good and abyll merchaunt,' for
470l.; of which 150l. is to be paid in money and 320l. in woollen clothes,
viz. eighty-six cloths at 70s. each, half of them 'mustres' and the other half
'broun blewes,' 23 yards long in the water. 4 August, 18 Henry VIII.
Portion of seal. English. Signed.



[Norf.]

A. 2962. Grant by Thomas Walsingham, salter, burgess of Bishop's
Lenne, and John Kyng butcher of the same, to Richard Holkham barber, of Lenne aforesaid, of a messuage with cellar called 'le
Spence' and the east portion of a house called 'le Tofal' with a void
piece of ground adjoining and a curtilage in Bishop's Lenne extending
from Tuesday's market-place at Lenne (a foro diei martis Lenn') to the
house called 'le Stable.' John de Wyntworth, mayor, Edmund
Belleyetere, alderman, of Lenne. 7 September 7 Henry IV. Two
seals.



[Norf.]

A. 2963. Release by William Brounyng, citizen and grocer of
London, to Thomas Catworth, citizen and grocer of London, and John
Waryn, burgess of Bishop's Lenne, of all his right in a tenement with the
moiety of a stone wall in the fore part of it, and in a Tofall in which is a
kitchen, and in a void plot of ground adjoining and in a curtilage belonging,
in Lenne, in the street called 'Tewsday market,' which he together with
Catworth and Waryn lately had by feoffment of Edmund atte Hyll and
others of Lenne (named). 4 May 11 Henry VI.



[Norf.]

A. 2964. Grant by Richard de Kerbroke that whereas Sir Hugh de
Ver has granted to him and his heirs all the lands and tenements that were
John Henry's in Kerbroke, to hold in villenage at the lord's will, they
will not hereafter claim any estate but that of villenage in the premises.
Witnesses:—Sir Alexander de Micham, master of the Hospital of
Kerbroke, and others (named). Friday after St. Mark the Evangelist,
1 Edward II. Seal.



[Norf.]

A. 2965. Release by John son and heir of Roger son of Henry of
Parva Kerbroc to Richard his kinsman, son of Sir Richard de Kerbroe,
of the messuage lands and tenements &c., which he had by gift of his
said father Roger Henry in Kerbroc Parva and Magna. Witnesses:—
Sir Ralph de Bosco, of Saham, John de Saham, and others (named).



[Norf.]

A. 2966. Demise by Thomas Catworth, citizen and grocer of
London, and John Waryn burgess of Bishop's Lenne, to John Bampton,
Avice his wife, Richard Franke, of Bishop's Lenne, and Grace, Bampton's
[Page 140]
daughter, of a tenement with moiety of the stone wall in the fore part, with
a Tofall in which is a kitchen with a piece of vacant ground and a curtilage
in Lenne aforesaid in the street called 'Tewsday market,' which they
lately had jointly with William Brounyng who has released to them all his
right therein. John Brekerope, mayor, and John Wesynham, alderman,
of Lenne aforesaid. 7 May 11 Henry VI. Seal and fragment of seal.



[Norf.]

A. 2967. Sale by friar John, a Carmelite, of Lenne, Robert de Hoo,
and Robert de Tirington, 'sherman,' executors of the will of Margaret
Barbour, late the wife of Walter Barbour, of Lenne, according to the custom
of the town of Bishop's Lenne, to John de Holkam, of Lenue, barber, of a
tenement in Bishop's Lenne extending from Tuesday market to Thomas
Rigthwys' tenement. Witnesses:—John de Tonteshale mayor of Lenne,
William de Byteringg alderman, and others (named). Tuesday, 10 March
40 Edward III. Two seals and portion of seal.



[Norf.]

A. 2968. Grant by John Makisseye of Lenne, and Francis
Toppisfeld vintner, burgess of Lenne, to Edmund atte Hyll, spicer, and
John Spryngewelle, burgesses of Lenne, Thomas Botekisham, and Thomas
Chevele of Lenne, of a tenement with moiety of a stone wall in the front
part, with a Tofall in which is a kitchen, with a plot of void ground
adjoining and a curtilage belonging in Lenne, in the street called 'Tewsday
market.' John Wesynham, mayor of Lenne. Eve of St. James the
Apostle, 8 Henry VI. Seal.



[Norf.]

A. 2969. Grant by Gilbert son of Gilbert de Risinges to the monks
of St. Pancras's, Lewes, in frank almoin, of all his tenement in Lettune,
viz. 6s. yearly rent payable by the tenants specified and all the meu
belonging to that tenement. Witnesses:—Roger de Grestune, Hedric de
Gurrest, John Buzun, Thomas de Rokelund, and others (named).



[Norf.]

A. 2970. Grant by Mathew de Soldeham to the monks of St.
Pancras at Lewes in frank almoin, of 12d. rent issuing from the tenement
that Robert de Rievilla holds of him in Fincheham, to improve the light in
St. Mary's chapel by the infirmary. Witnesses:—William the Chaplain of
Herham, Richard de Petraponte, Roger de Soldeham, Master William le
Scirmissur, and others (named).



[Norf.]

A. 2971. Release by John son of Geoffrey de Feltewelle, to the prior
and convent of Lewes, in frank almoin, of the tenement he held of them in
Lettune, viz. 6s. yearly rent that the tenants specified paid him, with the
said men, their sequele, and the customs due from them. Witnesses:—
Walter de Capravilla, Reyner de Duntune, Alexander Dalencun, and others
(named).



[Norf.]

A. 2972. Grant by Hugh de Gurnay of Letton, to the church of
St. Pancras and the monks of Lewes in frank almoin, of the tenement that
Matilda daughter of Aliz held of him in Lettune, viz. 18d. yearly issuing
from land, part upon Wrongelond, part in Sudfeld, part in Humelescroft,
and part on Cranewrdefeld. Witnesses:—Alexander de Alenzun, Roger de
Risinges, William de Kayli, and others (named).



[Norf.]

A. 2973. Grant by John, son of Geoffrey de Feltewelle, to the monks
of St. Pancras's, Lewes, in frank almoin, of the rent he held of them in
Lettune, viz. 6s. yearly rent mentioned in A. 2971. Witnesses, as in
A. 2971.




[Norf.]

A. 2974. Acknowledgment by Peter de Monte Alto that he owes Sir
Milo'the prior and the convent of St. Pancras, Lewes, 33l. 10s. 8½d. of
their pensions, rents, and tithes at Coningbor and Bradvelle. He is willing
that of the 63l. 9s. allowed him out of their rents, &c., if payment shall be
[Page 141]
proved to have been made in part or in whole, he shall be bound to pay
them as above. Witnesses:—John rector of Dichende, Julian vicar of
Hecham, Patrick constable of the castle of Lewes, &c. Michaelmas
day, A.D. 1271.

Endorsed: "Bradewelle."



[Norf.]

A. 2975. Grant by Ranulph abbot of Ramsey, to Richard Page, of
Lenne, for 20s., of land in Lenne in the street called 'Finneslane,' adjoining
land of the prior of Acre and reaching to the common gutter; paying
therefor 4s. yearly and 6d. to the lord of the fee, and the tallages that the
King or any other may levy. Witnesses:—Gilbert son of Warin, Walter
de Hale, and others (named). 23 Henry III.



Norf.

A. 2976. Agreement between, G. de Hecham, proctor of the prior
and monks of Lewes, and William son of Alexander de Lenne, to settle their
dispute concerning the detention for 4½ years past of the rent of 20s. and
the concealment and alienation of the said monks' tenements, made before
the dean of Lenne and his chapter in All Saints' church at Lenue. The
aforesaid W. shall pay the monks 20s. at Michaelmas next for the past year,
and for the residue shall make peace with the prior within 15 days after
the feast of All Saints next following; otherwise he shall come to the said
chapter at the instance of the opposite party and there undergo the sentence
he would now suffer but for this agreement. He has found as surety for
the payment of the 20s. at the said term William son of Bartholomew do
Lenne. If W. fail to pay the said 20s. he swears to shew the prior all the
tenements he holds of him between the water of Lenue and the water of
Wellestrem, &c. Witnesses:—John, vice dean of Lenne, Gervase, Ralph
and Nicholas de Wigehale and Adam de Walpol, chaplains, and others
(named). The morrow of St. Laurence in the autumn after the release of
the interdict in England.



[Middx.]

A. 2977. Grant and release by Helyas son of Theobald son of Yvo, to
Ralph son of Richard Cavel, for one gold bezant, of the stone house that
Theobald his father sold to Richard Cavel, which Theobald took in fee of
Richard Draghebac; and the portion of an orchard containing in length
twenty-one ells "de ulnis ferreis Johannis Regis Anglie" that Theobald
took in fee of the convent of St. Benet, Hulme. Witnesses:—John
Chaplain of the church of St. Denis, William Crisp, Fulered de Limstrate,
and others (named). John. Seal.

Endorsed: "Limstrate."



Norf.

A. 2978. Acknowledgment by Richard, the abbot, and the convent
of Langeley in Norfolk that they owe Sir William de Montekanisio homage
and relief on the appointment of each abbot of their house for a certain
tenement, and an aid to knight his son and marry his daughter, an they did
in the time of Sir Warin de Montokanisio. Witnesses:—Sirs William de
Sancto Claro, Thomas de Helegetune, Bartholomew Hauteyn, Hamo Petit,
Herne de Stanhoge, Roger de Rattlesdele, knights, and two others (named).
Injured.



[Norf.]

A. 2979. Release by Simon de Pallinge, brother of Joseph de Pallinge,
late burgess of Lenne, to Simon de Walsingham, burgess of Lenn, of all his
right in a messuage in the north corner of Lenn, extending from the road
leading to Ducishyl to the common fleet (fletam). Witnesses:—John de
Yspania, mayor of Lenne, and others (named).



[Norf.]

A. 2980. Grant by Richard Holkham, barber, of Bishop's Lenne,
Katherine, late the wife and executrix of John Barbour, son of the said
Richard, deceased, and Roger Fraunceys, butcher, of Lenne aforesaid,
co-executors of the said John, according to the custom of the borough, to
[Page 142]
Thomas Walsingham, salter, burgess of Lenne, and John Kyng, butcher, of
the same, of a messuage with a soler called 'le Spence,' and the east portion
of a certain house called 'le Tofal,' and a plot of vacant ground adjoining
the said messuage extending from Tuesday market to a house called 'le
Stable.' John de Wyntworth, mayor, Edmund Belleyetere, alderman of
Lenne. 5 September, 7 Henry IV. Three seals.



[Norf.]

A. 2981. Grant by Richard Holkham barber, of Bishop's Lenne, to
Roger Fraunceys butcher, of the same, of the premises in Bishop's Lenne
specified in A. 2980, as marked out by iron nails (in quodam stipato)
on the west and south of the messuage, affixed by way of boundaries.
11 September, 7 Henry IV. Seal.



[Norf.]

A. 2982. Release by Michael son of Ranulf de Lenne, to Sir Hugh
the abbot, and the monks of Ramsey in frank almoin, of all his right in
land with buildings in Lenne in the street called 'Finneslane,' stretching
from the said street to the common gutter; saving to the bishop of
Norwich a service of 6d. Witnesses:—Geoffrey son of Peter, Gilbert son
of Warin, and others (named). Seal.



[Norf.]

A. 2983. Grant by Estmund son of Sothman de Winebotesham, to
Michael son of Ranulf of Lenne, for 11 marcs, of the premises in Lenne
specified in A. 2982. Witnesses:—Ralph de Cybeceye, Adam his brother,
Hubert Koki, and others (named). Seal.



[Norf.]

A. 2984. Grant by Michael son of Ranulf de Lenne, to Astin son of
Gilbert de Lenne, for 13 marcs, of the premises in Lenne specified in
A. 2982. Witnesses:—Robert son of Sunel, mayor, William Koki,
Hubert his brother, and others (named). Seal.



[Norf.]

A. 2985. Indenture witnessing that notwithstanding the demise made
by Edmund Hill, spicer, burgess of Bishop's Lenne, Thomas Botekysham,
John Spryngewell, burgess of the same and Thomas Chevele of the same,
to Thomas Catworth, William Brounyng, citizens and grocers of London,
and John Wareyn, burgess of Lenne, of a tenement with moiety of a stone
wall in fore part, with a Tofall in which is a kitchen, a piece of void
ground and a curtilage in Lenne, in the street called 'Tewsday market'; yet
if the said Edmund pay Catworth and Brounyng within six years 16l. 16s.
in which he is bound to them, it shall be lawful for him to re-enter on the
premises, but during the said term he shall pay 14s. 4d. which the tenement
is charged to pay yearly to the prior of Lenne. John Permontere, mayor,
and John Wesynham, alderman, of Lenne. 23 January, 10 Henry VI.
Seal.



[Norf.]

A. 2986. Grant by Hugh son of Agnes de Heveringlond, to John
Launce of a piece of land in Heveringlond in Tweyt, for 20s., with power
of sale except to religious houses. Witnesses:—William de Gineto, lord of
Heveringlond, Peter and Roger his brothers, John de Vallibus, and others
(named). Seal.



[Norf.]

A. 2987. Grant by Ranulf son of Robert de Heylisdone to Sir Thomas
de Qwytewelle, rector of Pheletorp, for 12 marcs, of land in Pheletorp
parish adjoining John de Bosco's land called 'Longlond,' together with 5d.
yearly rent; paying yearly to John son of Ranulf de Bosco of Pheletorp,
1d., and 3s. 3d. to the chief lord of the fee. Witnesses:—Sir Godfrey de
Bellomonte, Reginald de Sprouston, and others (named). Portion of seal.



[Norf.]

A. 2988. Grant by Simon son of Hubert de Magna Meltone, deceased,
to Sir William son of the late Sir Warin de Monte Canisio, for 30 marcs,
of land in Great Melton adjoining Sir Hugh Peverel's land and abutting
[Page 143]
on the high road from Great Melton to Little Melton; and the advowson
of St. Mary's church in the same town. Witnesses:—Sirs Thomas de
Sancto Odmero, Hubert Hakun, Jolan de Vallabus, William de Crimgelthorp, Hugh Peverel, Ralph Malerbe, knights, and others (named). Portion
of seal.



[Norf.]

A. 2989. Grant by Hugh son of Agues de Heveringlond, to John
Launce for 24s. of land in Heveringlond, and a piece of meadow in
Brademedues adjoining the said land and abutting on the water running
from Likemille towards Suyftford. Witnesses:—Sir Richard, prior of
Mountjoy, Peter de Bylneye, Roger his son, and others (named).



[Norf.]

A. 2990. Release by William de Hereford of Little Mellon to Sir
William son of Sir Warin de Monte Kanisio, of all his right to the
homage and services that Master Martin Ordemer and John his brother
were wont to do him for a tenement in Little Melton, yet so that the service
they did him for scntage should be allowed in his service to the said Sir
William. Witnesses:—Sirs Hervey de Stanhowe, Thomas de Helgetone,
Andrew de Hengham, Bartholomew Hauteyn, Geoffrey de Stivekeyz, and
Hubert Hacun, knights, and others (named).



[Norf.]

A. 2991. Grant by William son of Roger Henecote of Heveringlond, to the prior and canons of St. Laurence's, Heveringlond, in
frank almoin, of 1d. yearly rent payable by Roger de Swytford for land in
Heveringlond. Witnesses:— Sir William de Gyney and others (named).
Seal.



[Norf.]

A. 2992. Release by John Baghare son of Richard Baghare of
Heveringlond, to the prior and canons of St. Laurence's, Mountjoy, of all
his right in 2d. yearly rent which they were wont to receive from a piece
of land called 'Beneslond.' Wednesday after St. John ante Portam
Latinam, 23 Edward III.



[Norf.]

A. 2993. Grant by Roger de Bilneye, knight, to Richard de Holwode
of Botone, of a messuage with a croft and eight pieces of land and pasture in
Heveringlond; part of the land lying in Ridecroft, part towards Sheyphuswong, part at Lanciswindmillehil, part at Mapiltremere, part abutting on
Kellingemor; which messuage and tenement Richard acquired of John
Mallard, Roger's tenant; paying 2s. 7½d. yearly and coming twice yearly
to Sir Roger's court in Heveringlond. Sunday the Iuvention of Holy
Cross, 3 Edward [I.].



[Norf.]

A. 2994. Grant by Ralph son of Ulric de Waltun to Sir Adam the
priest of Waltun, for 40s., of his land in a croft, and in Sibilie by the bishop
of Ely's croft, paying 8d. yearly and making dimidiam perticatam fossedi
maris et dimidiam perticatam Sewitii. Witnesses:—Richard de Sancto
Edmundo, then steward, Adam de Walpol, Peter de Kaili, and others
(named).

Endorsed: ". . de quadam terra de Waltun. Merslonde."



[Norf.]

A. 2995. Grant by Alexander son of William Carpenter of
Heveringlond, to John Lance, for 16s., of an acre of land in Heveringlond
in the field of Tueyt, abutting on the alder bed that was Richard de Tueyt's
Witnesses:—William de Gisneto, lord of Heveringlond, and others (named).
Injured.



[Norf.]

A. 2996. Release by Ralph Bundenburs of Morton, to William de
Fobyle, the prior, and the convent of Lewes, of all his right in an acre of
land in Merton. Witnesses:—John de Gernon, the elder and younger,
Thomas de Iford, steward of Lewes, and others (named).

[Page 144]


[Norf.]

A. 2997. Grant by Emma do Frivill to Sir Adam the priest of
Walton, of the land that Brihtled late the wife of Ralph, Adam's brother, and
Adam and Gregory, Ralph's sons, gave her by final concord, abutting on the
road called 'Middilgate.' Witnesses:—Alexander Dalencun, steward,
William de Sculham, and others (named).

Endorsed: "de quadam terra in Walton. Merslonde."



[Norf.]

A. 2998. Confirmation by William, Earl of Warenne, of a grant by
Robert de Frievill the younger, to the monks of St. Pancras [at Lewes],
in frank almoin, of 20 solidates of land at Massingaham; with promise if
he cannot warrant this land to Robert's heir, that the monks shall have
other 20 solidates of Robert's fee. [Witnesses:—] Rainer de Waren',
Ralph de Wiburevill, Baldwin de Frievill, William de Sartill.



[Norf.]

A. 2999. Confirmation by Nicholas Bardolf of Thaverham, and
Beatrice daughter of John de Gloz of Westune, to the prior and canons of
St. Laurence's, Heveringlond, of the land, messuage with buildings and
meadow in Thaverham parish that Richard de Thaverham, chaplain, son
of John de Colgate in Norwich, gave them. Witnesses:—Sir John de
Hestru, John Launce, and others (named).



[Norf.]

A. 3000. Grant by Richard the Chaplain, son of John de Collegate
of Norwich, to the prior and canons of St. Laurence's, Heveringlond, of
land with buildings in Taverham in the field called 'Westcroft,' abutting
on the road leading to Taverham church at Westker which he had bought
from Sir John de Hestru, knight. Witnesses:—Nicholas de Taverham,
John de Tunstale, Nicholas Rydel, and others (named).
















PreviousTable of contentsNext


























Footer menu






Help


About the project


Terms of use


Privacy and Cookies


Accessibility











Version 6.0. © 2024, University of London






















