











Deeds: B.901 - B.1000 | British History Online
















Skip to main content

















BHO | British History Online







Main navigation












Browse Catalogue


Subject guides


Using BHO


About


Subscribe


News












Login






Login


Register































';" aria-label="breadcrumb">
Breadcrumb


Home


A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds










Deeds: B.901 - B.1000










A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 1. 


Originally published by Her Majesty's Stationery Office, London, 1890.






This free content was digitised by double rekeying. All rights reserved. 






Citation:

BHO
Chicago
MLA		




'Deeds: B.901 - B.1000', in A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 1, ed.  H C Maxwell Lyte (London,  1890), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol1/pp300-310 [accessed 3 July 2026].





'Deeds: B.901 - B.1000', in A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 1. Edited by   H C Maxwell Lyte (London,  1890), British History Online,  accessed July 3, 2026,
https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol1/pp300-310.





"Deeds: B.901 - B.1000". A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 1. Ed.  H C Maxwell Lyte (London, 1890), British History Online. Web. 3 July 2026. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol1/pp300-310.














Keyword Highlight

Search









B.901 - B.1000





Surrey.

B. 901. Grant by William Drewe, son and heir of Thomas Drewe, the
older, late of Chertesey, to John Normanton and Henry Wykes, of the
same place, of lands, tenements, &c., in the vills and parishes of Chertesey
and Thorpe. 2 April, 23 Edward IV. Seal.



Surrey.

B. 902. Grant by William Seler, son and heir of Roger ate Seler of
Chertesey, to John Randolf and Henry Fitzjohn, esquires, of land at
Stevynton near 'le Barre' in the parish of Chertesey. 2 June, 14
Edward IV. Seal.



Surrey.

B. 903. Release by Peter Manory, late of Chertesey co. Surrey,
son of William Manory, to Richard Marland, of his right in a tenement
with a garden in the vill of Chertesey. 21 February, 12 Henry Vll.
Fragment of seal.



Surrey.

B. 904. Grant by Thomas Manory, son and heir of John Manory of
Chertesey, to Richard Merland, Thomas Purvoche and Henry Wykes, of
lands, tenements, &c., called 'Botlesepark' in the parish of Chertesey.
29 October, 16 Henry VII. Fragment of seal.



Surrey.

B. 905. Release by Thomas Manory, son and heir of John Manory
of Chertesey, to Henry Wykes, of his right in lands, tenements, &c.,
called 'Botelese Park' in the parish of Chertesey. 1 November,
l6 Henry VII. Seal.



Surrey.

B. 906. Release by John Abell, of Chabham co. Surrey, and Elizabeth
his wife, to Henry Wykes, of Chertesey, of their right in lands, pastures
and woods called 'Botles' and Synder Hyllys,' formerly called 'Botles
Parke,' in the parish of Chertesey. 1 January, 17 Henry VII.
Fragments of seals.



Surrey.

B. 907. Grant by Henry Wykes, of Chertesey, to John Bride, gent.,
William Filoll', knight, Nicholas Hughson, Ralph Swillyngton, Thomas
Hildesham, and others, of a messuage, curtilage and garden in the vill of
Chertesey, late the property of William Manory and which he together
with Richard Merland, Thomas Manory, of Aisshe, Robert Parys, Thomas
Purvoche and Walter Crumwell had held to the use of him the said Henry
Wykes. He further granted to the above named John Bryde and others
his field called 'Burtes Croftes' otherwise 'Botlees,' late the property of
William Drue, in the parish of Chertsey, held by him to the like use with
John Normanton, William Hore and Richard Parker; and also the lands,
tenements, &c., called 'Botlespark,' late the property of John Manory,
which he had similarly held to the like use along with Richard Merland and
Thomas Purvoche. 26 April, 20 Henry VII. Fragment of seal.

[Page 301]


Surrey.

B. 908. Conveyance by William Fyloll', knight, Nicholas Hughson,
Ralph Swillyngton, Thomas Hildersham, and others, to John Bryde and
Katherine his wife of those lands (see B. 907) which they had held
jointly with him of the grant of Henry Wykes in the parish of Chertsey.
Letter of attorney for Henry Wykes and Thomas Cotyngham. 20 November, 22 Henry VII. Seals.



Surrey.

B. 909. Indenture between William Drewe, of Chertsey, and John
Bryde, of London, for the letting to the latter of lands and tenements in the
parish of Chertesey. 2 March, 23 Henry VII.



Bucks. Leic.

B. 910. Indenture between John Popham, knight, and Thomas
Wedon, John Underwoode, of Chesham in the co. Buckingham, and others
relative to a yearly rent payable to him out of the manor of Chesham
Boys; and also to a demise to him of the manor of Rolleston in the co.
Leicester. 4 January, 11 Henry VI. Seals.



[Surrey.]

B. 911. Release by Henry Poueshurst, son of Henry Poueshurst, of
the parish of Ledderode (Leatherhead), to Laurence de Wych, of the parish
of Chayham (Cheam), and Beatrix his wife, of his right in a field called
'Pinchovesfeld' and to a grove, way, water and other easements. Nativity
of the Blessed Mary, 18 Edward III. Seal.



Essex.

B. 912. Grant by Mahaut, late the wife of John de Goldingham, to
Andrew Saddake, parson of Sodebroke, of the manor of Chikewelle. Friday
after St. Bartholomew the Apostle, 10 Edward II. Seal broken.



[Linc.]

B. 913. Release by Richard son of John de Insula of Netherbrunham,
to John son of Thomas do Brunham, and to John and Thomas sons of
William de Brunham, of his right in land in the field of Nether Brunham.
Conversion of St. Paul, 1334.



[Linc.]

B. 914. Grant by Robert, son of Ralph Takel of Haxay, to Ralph son
of Thomas de Brunham, of land called 'le Redesflatte' [in Brunham or
Haxay]. Witnesses:—Thomas de Brunham, Robert Laundeles, Thomas
Brune, and others (named).



[ ]

B. 915. Letter of attorney by William Trycket, of Bernestone (Barnston), for John de Gernet to deliver to Henry Gernet seisin of a messuage,
land and woodland, in the vill of Bernestone, to hold the same in fee.
Monday after St. Gregory, 28 Edward 1.



[Essex.]

B. 916. Grant by Adam the Smith (faber) of Chigewelle, to Robert
Mileys, clerk, of land in the Westmad in the vill of Chigewelle. Thursday
in seven days of Whitsuntide, 17 Edward II. Seal.



[Essex.]

B. 917. Grant by Gilet Pecche, lord of Chigewelle, to Robert Mylis,
clerk, of land with a building thereon in Chigewelle. Day of St. Thomas
the Martyr, 17 Edward II. Fragment of seal.



Kent.

B. 918. Demise by Robert Sandeforde, Robert Evyngham, clerk, and
Richard Quadryng, to John de S. Nicholas, of the parish of Asshe next Sandwich, of lands, tenements, rents, &c., in the parishes of Chystelet (Chislet)
and Lymne (Lympne) juxta Billerica, which they held of the feoffment of
William Brokman, of Asshetysforde, Richard Mayell, clerk, and John
Congherst, ofHaukeherst. 20 July, 34 Henry VI. Seals.



[Essex.]

B. 919. Grant by William le Zhouge, of Chigewelle, to Robert de
Hagham, knight, of land in 'le Stanmede' in the vill of Chigewelle, which
his father Robert le Zhouge had of the feoffment of Walter atte Clay of
that place. Monday before SS. Simon and Jude, 17 Edward II. Seal.

[Page 302]


[Warw.]

B. 920. Grant in frank almoin by Henry Frankelein, of Chelverescote,
to the prior and canons of Orbury, of land in Rowedeyhorneg', in the territory
of Chelverescote. Witnesses:—William de Seys, Geoffrey Russel, Robert
de Bollesovere, and others (named).



[Essex.]

B. 921. Grant by Robert atts Lofte son of John atte Lofte of Chigewelle, to Robert de Hagham, knight, of a messuage and lands in the vill of
Chigewelle. Monday after St. Andrew the Apostle, 14 Edward II. Seal.



Essex.

B. 922. Release by Agnes, late the wife of John del Hulle of Sheldon,
to William her son, of her right in lands, &c., in the vills of Chikwelle and
Berkyngge. Monday after Trinity Sunday, 18 Edward III. Fragment of
seal.



[Warw.]

B. 923. Grant by Robert Betriche, of Asteleye, to Robert de Gaynesborowe, dean of St. Mary's Asteleye, Edmund Wolfe, of Frollesworth,
William Merton, and John Bernard, chaplains, and others, of lands and
tenements with their appurtenances in the vill and fields of Chelverescote,
held by him of the feoffment of William Smith of Cheverscote, and of Agnes
Bischop, of Brokhirst. Wednesday, the feast of SS. Marcellinus and
Peter. 18 Richard II. Seal.



Warw.

B. 924. Demise by Edward Bristowe, esquire, and William Horsley, to
Thomas Wolfe and John Hoton, both of Coventry, Robert Lambe and
Thomas Sampson, of lands, tenements, rents, reversions, &c., within the
parish of Chelverescoton' (Chilvers Coton) which they held of the feoffment
of William Roukhorne, of Coventry, and Agnes his wife. 5 January,
7 Edward IV. Seal.

Endorsed: Cancelled.



Warw.

B. 925. Confirmation by Edward Betryche, chaplain, son of Robert
Betryche of Asteley co. Warwick, of the grant by Richard Werall' son
and heir of Henry Werall' of Nuneton in the same county, to Richard
Hondford, prior of Erdebury, Thomas Waldezeve, of Hurley, Thomas
Beaufytz, of Balsale, and John Leeke, of Nuneton, of lands and tenements,
&c., in the vill and fields of Chelverscoton which the said Henry Werall
had of the grant of Robert Betrych, father of the aforesaid Edward
Betrych. Translation of St. Martin the Bishop, 11 Edward IV. Seal.



[Salop.]

B. 926. Grant by Hugh son of Hugh de Wdeuerton to Ph., prior of
Chirbury, and the canons of that place, of a messuage in exchange for the
messuage in Chirburi, which they had granted to him. Witnesses:—Th. son
of Wither, William de Meritun, William de Mulestune, and others (named).



[Salop.]

B. 927. Grant by John de Wyttrue, of Chirburi, to William son of
Adam de Hocculton, and to Joan his wife, of lands, tenements, &c., in
Neutton and in the field of Bokenhwl in the fee of Chirburi. Monday after
All Saints Day, 44 Edward III. Seal.



[Salop.]

B. 928. Covenant between Thomas Montgomery (de Monte Gomeri)
lord of Lydun, and Roger, prior of Chirbury, relative to a grant in frank
almoin by Adam de Monte Gomeri, knight, father of the said Thomas de
Monte Gomeri, to the then prior of Chirbury, of his mills upon the Severn,
conditionally upon the priors of Chirbury having certain masses said by two
chaplains, Friday before St. Ambrose the Bishop, 4 Edward II. Fragment
of seal.



[Salop.]

B. 929. Grant by Robert the Chaplain (cappellanus), son of Adam
Tandy of Neuton, to William the Janitor (janitori) of Chirbury, son of
Ithel the clerk (clcrici), of a messuage in the vill of Chirbury. Witnesses:—Richard, vicar of Chirbury, Robert de Wittr', William de Hokelton
and others (named). Thursday, Beheading of St. John the Baptist,
8 Edward II. Seal.

[Page 303]


[Warw.]

B. 930. Grant in frank almoin by Henry Frankelen, of Chelve escote
to the church and canons of Erbery, of land in the territory of Chelverescote. Witnesses:—William de Seys, Geoffrey Russel, Robert de Bollesover',
and others (named).



[Salop.]

B. 931. Release by Richard son of Hugh de Chirbury to Gervase,
vicar of the church of Chirbury, of his right in lands and tenements in the
vill and fields of Chirbury and in Bulkenul. Sunday after St. Valentine,
29 Edward III.



[ ]

B. 932. Memorandum of a demise by Walter de Haywode and Joan,
his wife, to Robert atte Vanne and Christina, his wife, of two curtilages in
Chippenham in Bolstrede, and of land in Westmede. Thursday in the
first week of Lent, 37 Edward III.



[Warw.]

B. 933. Grant in frank almoin by Henry son of Sampson de
Chelverescote to the prior and canons of Orbury, of a yearly rent issuing
out of a croft in the vill of Chelverescote. Witnesses:—William de Seys,
John de la Hyde, clerk, Geoffrey Russel, and others (named). Fragment
of seal.



[Warw.]

B. 934. Demise by Thomas son of Simon de Stokes to the abbot of
Bordesley, of a meadow called 'Hidemedive' and the moor lying between
Chimblesbrug' and the lower mill of the abbot of Radings in the territory
of Preston, for a term of forty years commencing from the feast of the
Invention of the Holy Cross, 1269. Seal.



[Warw.]

B. 935. Grant in frank almoin by Thomas son of Hereward de
Merstona, to the prior and canons of Orbery, of a rent issuing out of land
in the vill of Chelverescot'. Witnesses:—William de Seys, John de la
Hide of Merston, clerk, Geoffrey Russel, and others (named).



[Suff.]

B. 936. Receipt by Richard Tybbay, of Middelton, to the prior and
convent of Ascheby Canons for two deeds relating to the manor of Stene,
and three others to the manor of Cavenedisch, which Henry de Pynkeny,
knight, had delivered for safe custody to the said prior. 3 November,
29 Edward I. Seal broken.



[Somers.]

B. 937. Demise by Simon de Meryeth, knight, to William Kyng and
William Will' of land and tenements with the soil of a wood called 'Newewode' in Serneye. Sunday after Michaelmas Day. 36 Edward III. Seals.



[ ]

B. 938. Grant in frank almoin by Geoffrey Parent to the nuns of
St. Michael, Stanford, of land in Chinemeresenge. Witnesses:—Geoffrey
Bot', Geoffrey Cappere, Richard de Burg', and others (named).



[Somers.]

B. 939. Grant by John Osbern, son of Philip Osbern, to Nicholas
Amorret, chaplain, and Thomas Coker, of a yearly rent issuing out of
lands, tenements, &c., at Serneye in the demesne of Taunton. Monday,
the Vigil of St. Bartholomew, 2 Richard II.

Endorsed: Cernehey. Seal.



[Somers.]

B. 940. Demise by Thomas Oseborne to William Appelyn and
Wymark, his wife, of cottages with land in Serney. Feast of St. Gregory
the Pope, 10 Henry IV.



[Somers.]

B. 941. Release by Henry Moleyns to John Osbarn the elder, of
Taunton, of his right in messuages, lands, &c., in Cerneheys in the manor
of Taunton. Morrow of the Ascension, 48 Edward III.

[Page 304]


[Somers.]

B. 942. Demise by Thomas Fissher, Richard Colbrond, Richard
Apmeryke, William Dowdenay and William Tryppe, to John Person of
Petmest', Agnes his wife, and John their son, of lands in Hamwode and
Stonevelde in Cerney. 9 November, 9 Henry VII. Seal.



[Somers.]

B. 943. Demise by Thomas Fissher, Richard Colbrond, Richard
Apmeryke, William Dowdenay and William Tryppe to Robert Smythe, of
Trull,' Margaret his wife, and John their son, of lands called 'le Mershe,'
'Cerney down Hyll' and 'Cerney' in Cerney in the parish of Trull.
9 November, 9 Henry VII. Seal.



[Somers.]

B. 944. Demise by Alexander Newton, esq., John Portman, Laurence
Adam, William Bolday, Richard Smythe and others (named) to Robert
Clarke, of Trulle, Alice his wife, and Robert their son, of land in Cerney.
Valentine's Day, 21 Henry VII.



[Somers.]

B. 945. Demise by Thomas Graynefilde, knight, Alexander Newton,
William Sydenham, William Netheway, Laurence Adam, William Bolday
and others (named) to Richard Smythe and Thomas his son, of lands in
Sernay. 1 March, 23 Henry VII. Seal.



[Bucks.]

B. 946. Grant in frank almoin by Muriel de Ros, widow, to the
church and canons of Berncestr' (Burcester), of lands in the vills of
Kaveresfeld (Caversfield) and Stratton, with the capital court of Kaveresfeld.
Witnesses:—Roger de Aumauri, Ralph Harang, Ralph de Chetwde, and
Ernald Bisech, knights, and others (named). Seal.



[Hunts.]

B. 947. Grant in frank almoin by Robert son of Walter de Dentun to
the master and brethren of the Hospital of Stanley, of lands lying upon 'le
Hole' and abutting upon Ketelstanweye and 'le Presseweye' in Catteworth.
Witnesses:—Robert Russel of Grafham, Robert Wyne, Ralph de
Cattewith', and others (named). Seal.



Kent.

B. 948. Release by John Hoo, esq., to the abbess of Syon, of his right
in the mansion houses, manors or rectories of Trewle (Throwley), Chelham
(Chilham), and 'la Molesse' (Molash), with all lands, tenements, mills, &c.
appertaining to the same. 13 July, 7 Henry VI.



[Kent.]

B. 949. Attornment by William Hope, son of James Hope, to William
Dymbygh, prior of the Charterhouse, to whom Richard bishop of Winchester,
Robert Rede, knight, Chief Justice of the Common Pleas, George Symon,
clerk, Bartholomew Westby, a baron of the Exchequer, and others (named)
had granted the reversion of the marshes called 'Holymerssh' and
'Bylesmerssh' in the parish of Chestlett (Chislet), which they had demised
to the said William Hope for a term of years. 31 January, 23 Henry VII.



Kent.

B. 950. Demise by Richard, bishop of Winchester, Robert Rede
knight, Chief Justice of the Common Pleas, George Symyon, clerk,
Bartholomew Westby, a baron of the Exchequer, and others, to William
Hope, of the marshes called 'Holymersshe' and 'Bykesmersshe' (sic) in
the parish of Chestlett. 25 January, 23 Henry VII. Fragment of seal.



Kent.

B. 951. Grant by James Hoope, of London, to Richard, bishop of
Winchester, Robert Rede, Chief Justice of the Common Pleas, George
Simeon, clerk, Bartholomew Westby, a baron of the Exchequer, and others
(named), to the use for life of his son William Hoope with reversion to the
prior of the Charter House, of two marshes called 'Bylemersshe' and
'Holysmersshe' in the parish of Chystlett. Letter of attorney for William
Byrde, 9 July, 22 Henry VII. Seal.

[Page 305]


[Kent.]

B. 952. Demise by William de Hopilonde to Alexander de Wode, of
two marshes called 'Bilemersh' and 'Rishope' in the parish of Cistelet,
and also of a way leading from the latter marsh. December, 1251.



[Kent.]

B. 953. Demise by William Brokeman, Richard Mayell, and John
Congherst, to William Kynton, of lands, tenements, rents and services
in the parishes of Chestelete and in Lynne (Lympne) juxta Belerica.
25 March, 32 Henry VI. Seal and fragments of seals.



Kent.

B. 954. Release by William Brokman, of Asshetysforde, John
Cungherst, of Haukherst, and others (named), to John de St. Nicholas,
otherwise John Sennycolas, of their right to the lands, tenements, &c.,
formerly the property of his father Thomas, in the parishes of Chystelet
and Lymne juxta Billerica (Lympne). 3 August, 31 Henry VI. Seals.



[Essex.]

B. 955. Release by Humphrey de Hastang' to Robert de Shareshull'
and William de Sheldon, of his right in lands in Chiggewelle and Berkyng',
which Thomas de Brailles, clerk, had of the demise of Robert Milys.
Witnesses:—John de Weston', parson of the church of Lalleford (Lawford),
and others (named). Friday before St. Barnabas, 14 Edward III. Seal.



[Kent.]

B. 956. Demise by William Brokman, of Asshetysford, and John
Cungherst, of Haukherst, co. Kent, to John de St. Nicholas, of the reversion of lands, tenements, rents and services in the parishes of Chystelet
and Lymne juxta Billerica, which they, with Robert Oxenbrigge and
Richard Mayell, the late vicar of Rolvynden (Rolvenden), had of the
feoffment of the said John de St. Nicholas and John Home, the said
lands, &c. being held to the use for life of Margaret wife of the said John
de St. Nicholas. 1 August, 34 Henry VI. Seal and fragment of seal.



[Kent.]

B. 957. Demise by John de St. Nicholas, otherwise John Sennicholas,
of the parish of Asshe near Sandwich, to James Hope, of the parish of
Sturrey, John Isaak and others (named), of his right of pasturage in the
parish of Chystelet next the marsh called 'Holysmerssh.' 12 April,
36 Henry VI. Seal.



Essex.

B. 958. Grant by William de Lamborne, chaplain, and Richard
Reignaud, of Lamborne, clerk, to Peter de Pakenham, of lands, rents,
tenements, &c., in the vill of Chigwelle, which they had of the feoffment
of William Haunsard, citizen of London. Wednesday before the
Annunciation, 10 Edward III. Fragment of seals.



Essex.

B. 959. Release by Robert Mile, of Brochamton', to Agnes, late the
wife of John de le Hul of Sheldon, and to William her son, of his right in
the lands which Richard Mile of Brochamton', after the death of Robert
Mile his brother, had held in Chicwelle, Westhache and Berkinge. Sunday
after the nativity of St. John the Baptist, 14 Edward III. Seal.



Kent.

B. 960. Demise by William Kynton, of the parish of Great Chart
co. Kent, to John de St. Nicholas, of lands, tenements, rents and services in
the parishes of Chystlett and Lymne juxta Bylleryca, which the grantor
had of the feoffment of William Brokeman, Richard Mayell, and John
Congherst. 27 October, 34 Henry VI. Seal.



Essex.

B. 961. Release by Matilda, daughter of William Persoun of
Lavenham, to John son of John de Goldingham, of her right in the manor
of Chigewelle. Monday after Trinity Sunday, 10 Edward III. Seal.



Essex.

B. 962. Grant by Richard atte Bokhurst, of Chigewelle, to his son
John atte Bokhurst, of a messuage with a curtilage and land in the vill of
Chigewelle, the land lying in a field called 'Broklond' and a croft called
'Mariotecroft.' Conversion of St. Paul, 18 Edwnrd II. Seal.

[Page 306]


Essex.

B. 963. Indenture relative to the enfeoffment of William Gernoun, of
Theydenegernoun, Bartholomew le Palfreyman and Walter Meniwas by
John de Goldingham, of his manor of Chigewelle with the advowson of the
church of Chiggewelle, and the settlement of that manor, &c., to his own
use, with remainder, failing issue, to the said William Gernoun and Isabella
his wife and Ralph their son. Sunday, the feast of St. Edmund the
King, 8 Edward III. Fragment of seal.



Essex.

B. 964. Grant by John de Burgate, of Chygewelle, to Peter de
Pakenham, citizen of London, and Isolda his wife, of land called 'le Brode
Eye' in Chigewelle. The Purification, 16 Edward III. Seal.



Essex.

B. 965. Indenture between John de Burgate, of Wodeford and
Chigewelle, and Peter de Pakenham, citizen of London, and Isolda his wife
relative to a demise to them of land, called 'le Brode Eye' and 'la
Longerodenes' in Chigewelle, and to his bond to them for sixty pounds.
20 March, 18 Edward III. Seal broken.



Essex.

B. 966. Indenture relative to grant by John Charman, called
'Mockyng,' citizen of London, to William de Melchebourne and Dernegolde
his wife, of lands and tenements in the vills of Chikewelle and Berkyng, and
to his bond given to them. Monday after St. Barnabas, 20 Edward III.
Seal.



Essex.

B. 967. Grant by John Andrew, knight, of the co. Cambridge, John
Belton, clerk, and Matthew, vicar of the church of Chigewelle, to Alexander
Goldingham and Isabella his wife, of the manor of Chigewelle. 26 January,
7 Richard II.



Essex.

B. 968. Demise by Alexander Goldyngham, knight, of Chigwell, to
William atte Ree, of the same place, of land in Westmede and in the fields
called 'le Lee' and 'Newehallefeld' in the parish of Chigwell, and 'Goldehurstfeld' in the parish of Berkyng. 10 July, 1 Henry IV. Fragments
of seals.



Essex.

B. 969. Demise by Nicholas Ploket, of London, to John Wyndhill,
of Berkyng, of lands, tenements, and houses, &c. called 'Bradfeld,'
'Anseford,' and 'Westmede' in the vills of Chekewelle and Berkyng.
Michaelmas, 40 Edward III. Seal.



Camb., Essex, Hunt.

B. 970. Grant by Walter Goldyngham, knight, lord of Chygwelle, to
Thomas Erpyngham, knight, Simon Brun, esquire, Thomas Halle and Edmund
Willesthorp, of the manor of Chygwelle, and lands, &c. in Chygwelle and
Berkyng co. Essex, the manor of Eltesley co. Cambridge, and lands,
tenements, rents, and services in Great Grandesden' co. Huntingdon.
Henry IV.



Camb., Essex, Hunt.

B. 971. Counterpart of B. 970. Fragment of seal.



Essex.

B. 972. Grant by William de Cruce of Chigewelle, to John de
Redburn and Isabella his wife, of land and five deywerkes of land in the
vill of Chigewelle. Witnesses:—Thomas de Writele, Alexander Chigewelle, Fulk de le Bokherst, and others (named). Seal.



Essex.

B. 973. Grant by Richard son and heir of Thomas de Writele, to
Alexander son of John the Flesher (Alexandro filio Johanni Carnifici), of
Chigewelle, of land called 'le Blakesaker' in the vill of Chigewelle.
Witnesses:—John de Goldyngham, lord of Chigewelle, Peter le Leykere,
Fulk de le Bokherst, William le Sayller, and others (named). [Edward I.]
Seal.

[Page 307]


Essex.

B. 974. Release by Alexander son of Robert de Cheggewelle to John
de la Ree, of his right in a yearly rent payable to him by the said John
for the croft, in the vill of Chegewelle, late the property of Matilda
daughter of John West. Witnesses:—John de Goldingham, Fulk de
Bokhurst, William Sayler, and others (named). St. Martin's Day,
26 Edward I. Seal.



Essex.

B. 975. Confirmation by John son of John le Herl to Martin son of
John, of the land which the latter held of his own grant in the vill of
Chiggewelle. Witnesses:—Alexander de Writall', Thomas de Writall',
Henry Sailler, and others (named). Seal.



Essex.

B. 976. Grant in fee by William de Cruce of Chigewelle, to John
son of Richard de Redburne, flesher, and Isabella his wife, of land in
Chigewelle. Witnesses:—Thomas de Writele, Alexander de Chigewelle,
Fulk de Bokherst, William le Saylly, and others (named). [Edward I.]
Seal.



Essex.

B. 977. Release by William le Pleytere, son of John le Pleytere, to
Giles Pecche of his right in the reversion, upon the death of Peter le
Leykeres, of land and tenements in the vill of Chigewelle. Witnesses:—
Robert de Hagham, Nicholas de Barnton, William Manywas, Richard ate
Bokhurst, and others (named) Fragment of seal.



[Essex.]

B. 978. Grant by Robert son of John ate Berne of Chigewelle, to
John son of John de Goldingham, of the same place, of two parts of a
messuage with the reversion of the third part of the same house with a
curtilage and land, which Hawisia his mother held in dower, in Chigewelle.
Sunday after SS. Peter and Paul, 15 Edward III. Seal.



[Essex.]

B. 979. Covenant between John le fitz Johan de Goddyngham and
Egelynege, late the wife of William le Plomer, of Heigham in Waltomestouwe, for a release to him, subject to provision for her maintenance, of
her right in a yearly rent issuing out of the manor of Chigewelle, and
which she held of his gift. Witnesses:—Robert de Hagham, Alexander
de Betoygne, and others. Monday after St. Laurence the martyr.
7 Edward III. French. Fragment of seal.



[Kent.]

B. 980. Confirmation by John Hoo, esquire, to the abbess and
monastery of Syon of their estate in, and also a release of his right in
the mansion houses, manors or rectories with all lands, mills, &c., in Trewle
(Throwley), Chelham (Chilham), and "La Molesse" (Molash). 13 July,
7 Henry VI.



[Essex.]

B. 981. Grant by William de Sceldone to William de Melcheborne,
and Dernergolda his wife, of a messuage, lands and rents in Chikewelle
and Berkynge. Monday after St. Hilary. 18 Edward III. Seal.



[Norf.]

B. 982. Demise by Owen Griffith, of Causton, and Cecilia his wife, to
John Bysshoppe, of Norwich, William Kerre, Nicholas Stokes, and Stephen
Walengere, of lands, tenements, meadows, pastures, &c., in Causton, and
also a messuage and land in the field called "Boywoodfeld" in the vill of
Causton, all which they had of the feoffment of Ralph Stannop, clerk, and
and Richard Browne of Twheyt (Thwaite). 27 September, 11 Henry VII.
Seal.



[Norf.]

B. 983. Demise by William Howchyn the younger, of Felthorpe, to
John Rightwys, of Norwich, Thomas Davy and Robert Burgh, notary, of
two messuages in Overbeywood Street, and divers lands in free and base
tenures in Boywodefelde abutting upon Boywodegrene, which he by the
name of William Howchyn the younger, son of Richard Houchyn of
[Page 308]
Causton and of Alice his wife, with Peter Dobbys and John Clubbe,
had of the grant of the aforesaid Richard Houchyn and Alice. Another
demise by the said William Houchyn the younger and John Shillyng the
younger, of Boton, to the said John Rightwys, Thomas Davy and Robert
Burgh of land in Boywoodfelde in the vill of Causton, which the said William
and John had held of the feoffment of William 'Balev' of Marsham. Letter
of attorney by the said William Howchyn and John Shillyng for John
Doraunt and Robert Thorp. 2 November, 9 Henry VII. Seal.



[Norf.]

B. 984. Demise by Geoffrey Hardyng and Richard Blome, of Causton,
to John Redele and Thomas Perteneye, of Salle, of messuages, lands and
tenements in the villa and fields of Causton and Heydon, late the property
of John Kype, which they with William Wegge, deceased, had held of the
feoffment of John Kipe, son of the said John Kipe. 14 January,
6 Henry VI. Seal.



[Norf.]

B. 985. Demise by George Brygge, brother of Thomas Brygge,
Thomas Lomnour and Richard Brown, of Twhayt, to John Rightwys, of
Norwich, John Rightwys, of Salle, and Thomas Davy of lands in Beywodefeld and Wyndemyllefeld at Pynhill in Causton, which they held of the
feoffment of Richard Brown and John Doraunte, both of Causton. Also
letters of attorney for Robert Grene of Salle. 26 January, 14 Henry VII.
Seal.



[Norf.]

B. 986. Demise by John Brady, chaplain, to Margaret Metton, widow,
Thomas Brette, Robert Skynner, Thomas Suffen and Thomas Eston, of
Causton, of lands and tenements in the vills of Causton and Heydon, which
he had of the feoffment of the said Margaret Metton. Seal broken.



[Norf.]

B. 987. Demise by Henry Eylesson, of Causton, Thomas Suffen,
Nicholas Crabbe, John Waterlande, and John Smyth, to John Legge, of
Causton, and Elizabeth his wife, John Heydon, knight, Thomas Woodows,
knight, Roger Townessend, esq., and others (named), of land in Bulleslade
in Causton, which they had of the feoffment of William Haddon. 13 April,
8 Henry VIII. Fragments of seals.



[Norf.]

B. 988. Grant by Hugh son of William de Causton to Nicholas de
Caukewelle, of a messuage and land in the vill of Causton. Wednesday
before SS. Philip and James. 20 Edward I. Fragment of seal.



[Norf.]

B. 989. Grant by Alan Russhemere, of Causton, to John Gibbis, of
that place, and Beatrix his wife, of land in Wodegatecroft in Causton.
Wednesday before Trinity Sunday, 40 Edward III.



[Norf.]

B. 990. Grant by William de Reffham and Cecilia, his wife, to
William son of Robert Hodamys of Hirminglond, of a cottage in Beyerwoywode street in the town of Causton. Saturday after St. Botolph the
Abbot. 25 Edward III. Seals.



[Norf.]

B. 991. Grant by Robert Mallard, Thomas Cranke, William Laire,
John Parissh, and John Petows, citizens of Norwich, to Robert Skynner, of
Causton, William Gurnay, of Boton, and Thomas Halys, of Causton, of a
messuage at Kyrkgate and land and right of drawing water in Causton,
which they had of the feoffment of Henry Baughburg of Causton. 21
March, 19 Henry VIII. Seal.



[Norf.]

B. 992. Grant by Christopher Spylman, son and heir of William
Spylman, to Robert Skynner, of Causton, Thomas Halys the younger and
Edmund Sawere, to hold to the use of the said Robert Skynner, his heirs
and assigns, of a messuage and land in Causton, which they had of the
grant of Christopher Coo, esq., John Grose, and John Fermour.
10 November, 16 Henry VIII.

[Page 309]


[Norf.]

B. 993. Grant by Christopher Coo, John Grose and John Fermour to
Christopher Spillman, son and heir of William Spillman, of a messuage and
land in Causton, which they jointly with William Spillman, deceased, had
of the grant of John Canon of Causton and Robert Skynner of the same
place. 9 October, 14 Henry VIII. Seal.



[Norf.]

B. 994. Grant by John Canon and Robert Skynner, both of Causton,
to Christopher Coo, esq., William Spillman, John Grose and John Fermour
of a messuage and land in Causton, which they had of the feoffment
of Robert Norgat, of Haylsham, John Rightwys, of Norwich, John
Colett, Henry Funtayn and William Bettes. 15 October, 12 Henry VIII.
Seal.



[Norf.]

B. 995. Demise by John Doraunt and Robert Godeman, both of
Causton, to John Rightwys and Robert Burgh, aldermen of Norwich,
John Rightwys, of Salle, William Funteyn, Henry Funteyn, and Robert
Rumpe, of messuages, tenements, lands, &c., in the vill and fields of Causton,
which they had of the feoffment of the said John Rightwys. 6 June,
18 Henry VII. Fragments of seals.



[Norf.]

B. 996. Confirmation by Philip Calthorp, knight, at the request of
Henry Heydon and Richard Pye executors of Richard Brown, late
of Wheyght, of a demise to Robert Herward, of Boton, and Robert
Skynner, of Causton, of lands and tenements in Boywodefelde and Shermannes Hylles in Causton, and also of lands in the field of Causton, which
he the said Philip Calthorpe together with Henry Heydon, knight, Richard
Brown aforesaid and Thomas Langdon had of the feoffment of Richard
Brown, of Causton, and John Doraunte, of that place. Also letter of
attorney for Richard Fouller, clerk. 27 July, 7 Henry VIII. Fragment
of seal.



[Norf.]

B. 997. Demise by John Rightwyse, alderman of Norwich, to John
Legge, of Bedyngham, and Elizabeth his wife, Roger Touneshend, esq.,
Thomas Wodehouse, knight, Christopher Calthrope, and Robert Herward,
to hold to the use of the said John Legge and Elizabeth, of lands in
Boywodefeld in Causton, which they, the said demisors, with John
Rightwyse, of Salle, and Thomas Davy, of Norwich, had of the feoffment
of George Brygg brother of Thomas Brygg, Thomas Lemnour, and
Richard Broun, of Twhayte. 27 August, 7 Henry VIII. Seal.



[Norf.]

B. 998. Grant by William Greve, of Causton, to Owen Gryffyth, of
that place, and Cecilia, his wife, of the land in Boywood field in the vill of
Causton, which he together with William Edmunds, chaplain, and Robert
Edmunds, of Heydon, had of the grant of Margaret, late wife of John
Wifyn. 14 March, 23 Edward IV. Fragment of seal.



[Norf.]

B. 999. Grant by Richard Lombe, of Causton, and Beatrix his wife,
daughter and heiress of John Mannyng, to Henry Goodman, of Causton,
Rotholand Adamys and Robert Thorpe, of lands and tenements in the vills
of Causton and Heydon, which had descended to the said Beatrix upon the
death of her father, and also of that piece of heath which the said Beatrix
had with her father and Ethildred his wife of the grant of Geoffrey
Robyns and Margaret his wife. Letter of attorney for Thomas Grene.

Endorsed: Memorandum relative to the examination, according to the
custom of the manor, of the said Beatrix touching this grant. 2 August,
16 Edward IV. Seals.

[Page 310]


[Norf.]

B. 1000. Grant by Thomas Banburgh, Robert Banburgh, Simon
Banburgh and Henry Banburgh, sons of the late Robert Banburg of
Causton, the next heirs of Thomas Banburgh, late of Causton, their uncle,
to Thomas Gloys, of Causton, and Nicholas Harman, of that place, of
messuages at Kyrkegate in Causton and lands with right of drawing water
in the fields of Causton. 8 March, 12 Edward IV. Seals.















PreviousTable of contentsNext


























Footer menu






Help


About the project


Terms of use


Privacy and Cookies


Accessibility











Version 6.0. © 2024, University of London






















