


  








    Deeds: A.9901 - A.10000 | British History Online
    


      




    
    
    
    
    



  Skip to main content



  
    





  
    
          
  
    
  
      
      BHO | British History Online
    
      
  


    
                      
    Main navigation
    
  
  
        

  
    
      
    
    
                    
              
                  Browse Catalogue
                      
          
                  Subject guides
                      
          
                  Using BHO
                      
          
                  About
                      
          
                  Subscribe
                      
          
                  News
                      
        
  
    
  


  


    
                      
    Login
    
  
  
        
              
              
        Login
              
          
        Register
              
        
  


  



    
  

  
  

  

  

  

  

    

      
      
      
            
  
    
        ';" aria-label="breadcrumb">
    Breadcrumb
    
          
                  Home
              
          
                  A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds
              
        
  

  


  
    
      
  Deeds: A.9901 - A.10000



  

  
    
      

  
    A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 4. 

    
    Originally published by His Majesty's Stationery Office, London, 1902.

    
  



    This free content was digitised by double rekeying. All rights reserved. 
    



  
    
      Citation:
        
          BHO
          Chicago
          MLA		
        
    
    
      
'Deeds: A.9901 - A.10000', in A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 4, ed.  H C Maxwell Lyte (London,  1902), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol4/pp475-491 [accessed 3 July 2026].
    


    
      
'Deeds: A.9901 - A.10000', in A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 4. Edited by   H C Maxwell Lyte (London,  1902), British History Online,  accessed July 3, 2026,
 https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol4/pp475-491.
    


    
      
"Deeds: A.9901 - A.10000". A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 4. Ed.  H C Maxwell Lyte (London, 1902), British History Online. Web. 3 July 2026. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol4/pp475-491.
    


  
  
    
  

  
    

  

            
        Keyword Highlight
        
        Search
        
      
     
    
            
  



A.9901 - A.10000





[Cornw.]

A. 9901. Feoffment by Roger Robert of Cheyengrous to William
Kayl of Rudruth, Richard his brother and John son of William de Soulmur
successively in tail, of a place of land and garden in Rudruth, between the
house of John Cufygy and the messuage of John the cobbler (sutoris), with
1a. land English in Rudruth, between Erou en Dublerer (?) and the place
which was Andrew Sonetman's; rent, 4d. Witnesses:—Thomas de Trelegh,
Nicholas de Trefula and others (named). Saturday before St. Mark the
Evangelist, 15 Edward III. Seal.



Cornw.

A. 9902. Feoffment by Ralph de Tregot, lord of [Treder]fow, to
John Sto . . . . ., of all his demesne in the town of [Trederfo]w, to
wit all the land which Ralph de Tred [erfow] formerly held; rent, . . . .
quarterly; to the tallage of the county of Cornwall . . . . . .
[estovers] in [Goen]retyr and Gaones . . . Witnesses:—Odo de
Trevael, Reginald de . . . ., . . . de Trewibrest, . . . . de Nan-
kelly, clerk. Dated at Ladock (Sanctam Ladocam), Thursday, the morrow
. . . . .



[Camb.]

A. 9903. Grant by John Stacy the elder of Haselyngfeld and
Reginald Fodryngton of Berton to William Amys of Haselyngfeld, son and
heir of Geoffrey Amys of the same, and of Agnes his wife, in free marriage,
of a tenement, with 30a. land lying dispersed in the town and fields of
Berton, which belonged formerly to William Gamelyn 'Knotiwyth' and of
late to Maud Note of Berton, one acre next 'Brodgrene' excepted, the
messuage being situate between the fee of the prior of Bernewell and the
fee of John Walden; to hold to the said William and Agnes and the heirs
and assigns of William. Sunday before St. Thomas the Martyr,
10 Henry V.



Camb.

A. 9904. Bond by John White of Downham, co. Cambridge,
'husbondman,' Richard Pelle of Haddenham, in the said county, 'husbond-
man,' and John Welle of the same, 'husbondman,' to Thomas Stratton
and John Sybbesson in 40l. at Christmas. 24 September, 28 Henry VI.



[Cornw.]

A. 9905. Feoffment by Hervey son of Nicholas Smith (fabri) of
Helleston Burgh to Henry de Trewedon of an acre of land English in the
upper close of Helleston next Caerdro, between the acre of William de
Pengersiec and the acre of Richard de Trevenec; consideration, 30s.
[Page 476]
Witnesses:—John de Tremaen and Michael Godeman, then reeves of
Helleston, Richard de Trewedenec, merchant, Roger de Pengersiec, Roger de
Erisi. Helleston Burgh, Monday before St. Peter's Chair, 4 Edward II.



[Cornw.]

A. 9906. Release by Richard Trevarrek of Tregony to John Brun,
clerk, son and heir of Noel Brun, of his right in lands, &c. in the town of
Tregony, which he had by the feoffment of Richard Hobeday. Tregony,
Saturday, after the Apostles Peter and Paul, 17 Henry VI. Witnesses:—
John Petit, esquire, Thomas Trevayngnon, John Froden, John Gay,
Thomas Penwern, Henry Sadeler, Pascoe Dyer. Seal.



Camb.

A. 9907. Feoffment of Nicholas Aunger of Comberton to Katharine
Fanne late wife of Robert Fanne, John Howe and Thomas Dyke, of ½a.
arable in Berton, co. Cambridge in 'le Brache felde' in a furlong
(quarentena) called 'Stokfurlong,' which he had by the gift and bequest
(legacione) of Nicholas Aungere of Whyttwell his father, now deceased, as
in his last will appeared. 6 June, 19 [Henry] VII. Seal.



Camb.

A. 9908. Feoffment by Richard Dyke of Berton, co. Cambridge, to
Thomas Baasley of Tofte, 'smyth,' the elder, Thomas Pecke son of William
Pecke of the same and Thomas Newman of the same, of la. ½ rood arable
lying dispersed in Berton fields, viz. in 'Brookfeld' next lands of St.Benet's
College (Collegii Sancti Benedicti), of St. Katharine's Hall and of Thomas
Warde, 'gentilman,' and in 'le Dounfeld' next land of 'la Clarehall,'
abutting on 'Thyrsty Wey,' &c. 4 June, 20 Henry VII. Fragment of seal.



[Cornw.]

A. 9909. Indenture being a feoffment by John Tretherff the elder,
esquire, to John Reskymer, esquire, and Katherine, his (Tretherffs)
daughter, of all his lands, &c., in Trewynyan and Bodanowe, in the parish
of St.Enoder, with the fealty, rent and service of 12d. and suit of court due
from John Ronold in Trewynyan, 4d. rent, &c. from Martyn Roulyn in the
same and 8d. rent, &c. from John Tregyskyde in the same, with the
reversions of their free tenements; to them and the heirs of her body by
the said John begotten; rent, a red rose at Midsummer, and two suits of
court (legalis curie mee) within the manor of Trewynyan; with remainder to
the said Katharine and the heirs of her body. Witness:—John Treffry,
knight, John Tremayn, John Arundell of Talvern, William Trevenour and
John Trevenour, esquires. Trewynyan, 3 January, 14 Henry VII.



[Cornw.]

A. 9910. Letter of attorney by James Lannargh to John Raulyn to
deliver seisin to Anne daughter of Ralph Bugotte, knight, of all his lands,
&c. in the town of Trefowell. Saturday after St. Martin the Bishop,
13 Edward IV. Fragment of seal.



[Cornw.]

A. 9911. Indenture of demise by James Lannargh to Anne [daughter
of] Ralph Bugote, knight, of all his lands in the town of Trefowell, for
the term of her life, at the rent of a grain of corn, with remainder to
Marina, his sister, mother of the said Anne, with remainder, after the
decease of Christopher Lannargh, to the said Marina, her heirs and assigns,
with warranty to the said Marina, after the death of the said Christopher.
Witnesses:—John Penros, Methle, Christopher Barlow, John Penros, the
younger. Trefowell, Saturday after St. Martin the Bishop, 13 Edward IV.
Seal.



[Cornw.]

A. 9912. Indenture being a feoffment by Reginald de Tretherf to
Richard Reed of Graundpount and Maud his wife, in tail, of a piece of
land in the borough of Graundpount, next land of the commonalty of
the said borough, &c. being 14 perches square; rent, 2s., saving suit of his
court of Tretherf twice a year; with remainder in default of their issue to
the heirs of the body of the said Richard, with remainder to him and his
[Page 477]
heirs in default. Witnesses:—John Pybou, Richard Ludy, Richard Wyket,
Andrew Wolvedon, then reeve (preposito) of the said borough, William Goof.
Sunday after Midsummer, 12 Richard II. Seal.



[York, W.R.]

A. 9913. Feoffment by Henry le Norres, knight, and William le
Merser, chaplain, to Thomas de Clapeham, son and heir of Thomas de
Clapeham, esquire, and to Margaret his wife, daughter of John Osbaldeston,
knight, and the heirs of the body of the said Thomas the son of the said
Margaret begotten, of the manor 'del Lund,' with all the lands, &c. which
they had by the gift of the said John Osbaldeston, knight, and Thomasina
his wife, in the towns of Burton and Thorneton, or elsewhere within the
Wappentake of Londesdale. Witness:—John Stanley, William and James
Haryngton and John Savage, knights, Thomas Osbaldeston and Robert
Fasacreley. Lunde, Friday before the Annunciation, . . . . . .
Henry V.



[Cornw.]

A. 9914. Indenture being a feoffment by John Tretherf, esquire, to
John Thomy of Lavardrogh, of a toft, 1a. land and the third part of a
garden, with a parcel of meadow called 'Buthen en hesk,' in Lavardrogh,
which he lately had by the gift of Roger Ady; rent 26d. Witnesses:—
William Bodrugan, knight, Ralph Trenewth, esquire, and others (named).
Grauntpound, Thursday the feast of St. Matthew the Apostle, 7 Henry V.
Seal.



[Cornw.]

A. 9915. Feoffment by John Gofbyghan of Helleston Burgh to
Thomas his son and heir and his heirs begotten of the body of Lucy
daughter of John Gerves of Helleston Burgh, of a yearly rent of 20 marks
from all his lands, &c. in Helleston Burgh, saving from two half places in the
said town, in Wyndesor Street between the half place of Matthew Chous,
&c. Witnesses:—Peter Hervy and Andrew Margh', then reeves (prepositis),
William, prior of St. John, Joceus and John de Antreuon. Monday after
the Holy Trinity, 19 Edward III.



[Cornw.]

A. 9916. Release by John de Trewybrest to Walter Renaud in tail,
of two messuages and a garden, and all the land which Simon Legat and
Richard Dorel formerly held of John his father in Tregaer mur, and all
the land which Nicholas Hosa and Bartholomew Carpenter (carpentarius)
formerly held of him in the same town, with pasture for all
the beasts of the said Walter, and Walter's tenants, through his
land of Tregaer mur; with remainder in default of his issue to Reginald de
la Medesole in tail; rent, a grain of pepper at Michaelmas, for the first
twenty years, and thereafter 12s. by quarterly payments. Witnesses:—
Oger de Cleher, Stephen de Boswydel, John de Nanskelli, Alric de Caer,
Andrew de Penhal. Dated at Tretherf, Sunday after St. Luke, the
Evangelist, 19 Edward II, 1325. Seal.



[Cornw.]

A. 9917. Indenture being a feoffment by John de Trevarthian to
William Mathew and Joan Robin his wife in tail, of a place of land in
Marghasbighan (Parro Foro), on the east of the place of Richard Penmenyth
containing 12 perches of land; rent, 12d. and suit of court twice a year;
with remainder, in default of the issue of the said William and Joan, to
John son of William de Trefussa for life. Witnesses:—Robert Clemmow,
and others (named). Dated at Marghadiow, Wednesday after St. Parnel
the Virgin, 33 Edward III.



[Cornw.]

A. 9918. Indenture of demise by Thomas Peverell to Walter
atte Mylle and Ellen, his wife, for the term of their lives in survivorship,
with remainder to their children John, William, Christopher and Meliora,
and to Thomas son of John Thomas of Widewell, successively in tail,
[Page 478]
with reversion in default to himself, of the messuage, lands, &c.
which the said Walter previously held in the town of Mochell
Trewynt, viz. from the foot of the ditch (fossati) next the stream between
the land of Hethnant and the land of Torre, following the ditch to Lange-
torre, and so by the bounds (metas) of Langetorre to Willetorre, from
Willetorre to the dwelling (mantionem) of the late Alexander de Torre, and
so by the said ditch to Morelane, thence, descending by the road leading
from Peverill More to Mochell Trewynt, to Crowensmede and thence to the
said stream, with three closes called Crowens Parkys near the land of
Nywehallelond, two closes, one opposite the said Walter's tenement and the
other called Beaupark, and with half his land of Torredoune; rent, 6s. 8d.
at the quarters usual in his manor of Hamatethy, suit to his mill of
Trewint &c. Witnesses:—John Helygan, Nicholas Bokelly and others
(named). Dated at Park, Monday after Midsummer, 1 Henry IV. Copy.



[Cornw.]

A. 9919. Indenture of demise by John Lannargh, clerk, and
Christopher Barly to Isabella, Amisia, Elizabeth and Marina, sisters of the
whole blood (plene sanguinis) of James Lannargh, of all the messuages,
lands, &c, which they had by the gift of the said James, in Lannargh Mur,
Helstonburgh, Hellogan, Bodryvyell, Trewodonas, Carnvolg', Carnegynfyn,
Boswyn, Trevynsyn, Penhelek Byan, Poldowe, and Padystowe; to hold for
the term of fifteen years, at the rent of a grain of corn at Michaelmas; with
remainder on the completion of the term to Christopher Lannargh, son and
heir of the said James, in tail, with remainder in default to James' right
heirs; the funeral expenses of the said James, and the stipend of a suitable
priest celebrating for a year for the soul of the said James, to be paid out
of the profits of the said messuages, lands, &c. Lannargh Mur, 11
November, 13 Edward IV. Seals, one broken.



[Cornw.]

A. 9920. Feoffment by James Lannergh to John Lannergh, clerk,
of all his messuages, lands, &c. in the towns of Lannergh Meyr, Hellogan,
Carthenan, Boswyn, Bodrevyell, Trevoell Cargenvyn, Trewodanes and
Trevyan. Witnesses:—John Penros, Ralph Tremeyn, John Raulyn.
Lannergh Meyr, 29 April, 36 Henry VI. Seal.



[Cornw.]

A. 9921. Indenture being a feoffment by Michael Antron of Helleston-
burgh to Everwyn Flor', merchant of the same, of a tenement there with a
garden in St. Michael's street, next John Pengersyek's; rent, 4s.
Witnesses:—Michael Pengersyek and John Anter', then reeves (prepositis) of
Hellestonburgh, and others (named). Saturday the eve of the Assumption.
35 Edward III.



Camb.

A. 9922. Feoffment by Thomas Newman of Tofte, son and heir of
William Newman, to Thomas Baaseley, 'smyth,' his uncle (avunculo),
Thomas Pecke, son of William Pecke, and John Rolfe, of 4½a. arable in the
fields of Berton,as in the charter of John Aunger, Henry Aylemer, and John
Lenton, made to John Newman of Comberton, Thomas Newman of the
same, and his said father, William Newman, appears; the said land
descended to him on the death of his said father, inasmuch as he died
solely seised of it; which land the said Thomas Baasley lately bought of
the said John Newman his uncle (patruo). Berton, 10 July, 22 Henry VII.



[Cornw.]

A. 9923. Indenture being a feoffment by John son and heir of John
de Trewybrest to William Walter, merchant of Truru, of a messuage and
all his land of Tregaer Mur, with the exception of the lands which Walter
de la Medesole, Bartholomew Carpenter (carpentarius) and Nicholas Hosa
of Tregaer Mur, held of him there; to hold according to the form of the
charter of feoffment he had made to the said William thereof; rent, 1d. at
Michaelmas for the first fifteen years, and thereafter 50s. Witnesses:—
[Page 479]
Oger de Cleher, John de Nantian and others (named). Truru Marche,
Monday after the Invention of the Holy Cross, 2 Edward [I]. Endorsed:
Tregamur.



Cornw.]

A. 9924. Indenture made at Reskymmer, 15 April, 19 Henry VI,
between Ralph Reskymmer,' esquire, and Thomas Treuthgans, to wit the
said Ralph has assigned the said Thomas to pay divers debts of his
due to men in the town of Helstonburgh, to John Wyllyam Snyll,
9s. 10d., John Carda, 3s. 10d., William Mellowre, 6s. 7½d., Richard
Nanskelly, 13s. 8d., Thomas Cosworth, 12s. 7½d., Daniel Trokyer, 9s. 10d.,
Ralph Jakande, 10s. 11d., Matthew Byrt, 6s. 7½d., Adam Minughter,
6s. 11d., John Sadler, the younger, 3s. 4½d., Michael Trefuny, 17s. 2d.,
Michael Jaka Rose, 2s. 7½d., John Dennes, 2s. 6d., Peter Mercer, 12s. 5d.,
also to the said Peter, for the tithe of sheaves of Reskymmer for last
autumn, 9s. 2d., and for divers things bought of him, 42s. 5½d., to John
Noel, 'glover,' 20d., and John Carnbehan 2s. 10½d.; and the said Ralph
owes the said Thomas, for the rate (rata) of Marthyn and other tenements,
late in the king's hands, and for other the expenses connected with the
purchase of a writ of diem clausit on the death of Joan, late the wife of
Thomas Carmynowe and the inquisition made thereon, 9l. 13s. 2½d.; also
to David Benett 8s. 4d., John Herr' Richowe 6s. 2d., Benedict Mabbe,
10s. 3d.



Camb.

A. 9925. Feoffment by Richard Dyke, son and heir of John Dyke of
Berton, to Thomas Dyke his son, Robert Rolfe and John Howe, of a
messuage with a parcel of land called 'Croftlond,' which he lately bought
of John Aunger, and 3½a. arable and the third part of a half acre lying
dispersed in the fields of Berton and Haslyngfelde, next land belonging
to the chantry of the church of St. Mary next the market place (forum) of
Cambridge formerly belonging to Christian Aunger, lands of Richard and
Sampson Aunger, land belonging to the college of Corpus Christi and St.
Mary, lands of the Alms House, &c., all of which formerly belonged to the
said John Dyke his father. Berton, 10 May, 19 Henry VII. Seal.



Camb.

A. 9926. Release by Richard Cleve of Berton, co. Cambridge, and
Richard Dyke of the same, executors of the testament of John Freman, to
John Hesewell, burgess of the town of Cambridge, John Fynne, clerk,
William Pechard of Cambridge, John Boteler of the same and Sampson
Aunger of Whitwell, of their right in a messuage and a headland (forera)
adjacent, containing 3a., in Berton, next land of John Aunger, &c.
Witnesses:—Richard Aunger of Berton and others (named). 15 October,
2 Henry VII. Seal and fragment of seal.



Cornw.

A. 9927. Demise by John Seyntaubyn, esquire, to John Archer of
Truru and William Trethek in the county of Cornwall, for the term of
their lives, of a croft in Poltuska in the parish of St. Clement in the fee of
Morusk in the said county, between land of John Bywy on the north, land
of the heirs of John Penrose on the south, land of John Bevyll on the east
and the sea on the west; also of a small park (parcum) in the parish of
St. Clement, the sea on the south and west, &c.; rent, a rose at Midsummer.
Witnesses:—John Trethek, esquire, John Trevenour, Robert Soperton,
esquire. Poltusca, 20 January, 13 Henry IV. Seal.



Cornw.

A. 9928. Release by Alan Pype of the county of Cornwall to John
Treuarthian, knight, of his right in all his lands, &c. in Trevyhan, in the
said county. Certified under the seal of the Archdeacon of Westminster.
20 August, 2 Henry IV.



[Cornw.]

A. 9929. Feoffment by John son and heir of William Poyher of
Penhale to John Nanskelly, of the rent and service of Reginald de Tretherf
[Page 480]
for two acres of land English in the town of Penhale, with the reversion
thereof. Witnesses:—Ralph Clegher and others (named). Graundpount,
Sunday before Christmas, 47 Edward III.



[Cornw.]

A. 9930. Feoffment by John Fraunces of Hayvos to Robert, his son
and heir, and Maud wife of the said Robert, in tail, of a messuage and all
his land in Tretherf and a moiety of all his land in Goen Rertyr called
'Hors Pol.' Witnesses:—Reginald de Penros, Nicholas de Trewydel,
John de Tregorrec, Reginald, lord of Trenansaustel. Dated at St. Austel
(Sanctum Austolum), Monday after the Assumption, 5 Edward III.

Endorsed: Hirsse Pole.



[Cornw.]

A. 9931. Indenture made at Marhesyow, 20 May, 36 Henry VI,
between William Rosmodras, John Lannergh, clerk, Walter Tregeye, and
John Nanscylly, of the one part, and Joan late the wife of James
Lannergh of the other, being an assignment of dower to her from the
lands, &c. whereof the said James was lately seised, and whereof he after-
wards enfeoffed them, in the towns of Marhesyow, Marhes Byan,
Brevannek, Helston Burgh, Erlyn, Roscoll, Hellogan, Cardenan Byan,
Trevowyn, Bodryvyell, Carvolgh, Boswyn, Penhelek Byan, Trevynsyn,
Carnegynfyn Woles, Polleow Woles, Treveghan and Lannergh, to wit:—
a chamber (cameram) at the said town of Lannergh, called 'Chamber an
Tresousse,' another chamber annexed, called 'Chamber Byan,' with a
privy (latrina) annexed and two solars over them, with the kitchen and a
third part of all other the houses there with thatch (tecturis straminum),
with 23s. 9d. rent, at the quarters usual in the hundred of Keryer,
with power of distraint over the land of Lannergh; also they have
assigned to her the lands, &c. severally held by the heirs of Cardrew,
Michael Bell, Richard Wodeslade, John Harry Bousy, Roger Manshyppe,
the heirs of William Oppy, Ralph de Erlyn and John Thomas Jack of
Roscoll, in Marhesyow, Marhes Byan, Brevannek, Helston Burgh, Erlyn,
Hellogan and Roscoll; also a third of the land, &c. the said James had in
Trevyngyn. Witnesses:—John Penrose Methele, John de Trewoeff, Roger
Treovran, William Trefreff, William le Veell. Seals, broken.



[Camb.]

A. 9932. Feoffment by Adam son of William Paris of Heslingfeud
to Geoffrey de Tan and John his son, for their service and 20s. paid before-
hand in gersum, of two selions of land in the fields of Bertone, viz. at
Berdyswelle, next land of Robert le Thorcheneyf, &c. and 'abovenyemadwe'
&c; rent, 1d. at Easter for all service.



[Cornw.]

A. 9933. Indenture being a feoffment by Henry Bodrugan, knight,
lord of Tregrean to John Huchen, the elder, of all his tenement in
Tregrean, in the occupation of the said John; also grant that the said John
and his issue may have yearly common of pasture in the wastes of Tregrean,
&c.; rent, 14s. and 12s. for a relief and suit of his court of Tregrean
twice a year and suit of his mill of Tregrean. Witnesses:—John Janyn of
Mulvra and others (named). Tregrean, 17 October, 2 Henry VII.



[York. W.R.]

A. 9934. Release by Thomas son of Hugh to Nicholas de Maisingille
of his right in two burgages in Burton, extending towards Bounebec.
Witnesses:—Martin de Casterton and others (named).



[Cornw.]

A. 9935. Feoffment by Henry Hoper of Truru to Richard and Joan
his children, of a place of land, &c. in the town of Truru Marche; rent,
a red rose at Midsummer. Dated at Truru Burgh, Saturday the Exaltation
of the Holy Cross, 44 Edward III.



[Cornw.]

A. 9936. Indenture being a feoffment by Ralph Reskymmer, esquire,
lord of the manor of Trelowith next Reddruth to Nicholas Jolyf of Reddruth
and Isabel his wife of a place of land with a garden in the town of Reddruth;
[Page 481]
rent, 2s. at the feast of Mid Lent and St. Michael in September.
Witnesses:—Walter Jackehecke and others (named). Monday before St.
Nicholas, 15 Henry VI.



[Cornw.]

A. 9937. Indenture being a feoffment by Walter de Tretherf and
Maud his wife to William de Trelouthas and Alice his wife, of all their
lands, &e. in Trelouthas bighan, in exchange for the lands, &c. in Tretherf,
Goenrestyr, Penmene and Trewens, which they bad by the gift of the said
William and Alice. Treuru, Thursday the feast of St. Ambrose the bishop,
10 Edward III. Endorsed: Trelathas.



[Cornw.]

A. 9938. Indenture being a feoffment by John de Trevarthian to
Pascoe (Pascasio) Bom and Joan his wife, in tail, of a place of land in
Marghasbyghan, containing 12½ perches of land; rent, 12½d.; with
remainder in default of their issue to Richard de Penmeneth for life.
Witnesses:—Henry Vivian, Robert Clemow, Matthew Bourwyk, Richard
Boskennaw, John Pelloter. Marghasdiow, Monday the morrow of
St. Katharine the Virgin, 32 Edward III.



Camb.

A. 9939. Feoffment by Richard Dyke of Berton, co. Cambridge, and
Robert Rolff of the same to John Newman of Comberton, Thomas Newman
of the same, Thomas Baron and William 'of Burne,' of 1a. ½ rood arable
lying dispersed in the fields of Berton, abutting on 'Catsowey,' &c.
which they had by the feoffment of John Aunger, son and heir of
Henry Aunger, by deed dated at Berton, 11 July, 3 Henry VII.
Witnesses:—Richard Aunger and others (named). 18 July, 3 Henry VII.



[Camb.]

A. 9940. Feoffment by John Atkyn, son and heir of John Atkyn,
of Berton next Cambridge, deceased, to William and John Levechild of
Berton, of a messuage and croft and 21a. 1 rood arable there, described;
lands of the lordship of Richemond, of Sampson Aunger, John Stanford,
Robert Outlawe and Corpus Christi College, &c. are mentioned as boundaries.
9 February, 30 Henry VI.



Camb.

A. 9941. Feoffment by John Howes of Cambridge to John Puregolde
and Margaret his wife, and Hugh Chapman of Cambridge, executors of the
will of Henry Veysy of the same, Paul Smyth and John Thyrleby, of
Cambridge, and Richard Aunger and John Rolff of Barton, of 7½a. arable
and a close of wood lying dispersed in the town and fields of Barton,
next lands of the college of St. Katharine the Virgin, late Richard
Clyf's and Richard Aunger's, &c, which he had by the feoffment
of Hugh Chapman of Cambridge, John Puregolde, Henry Hawlehed, Paul
Smyth, and John Thyrleby, of Cambridge, by charter dated at Barton, 10
January, 24 Henry VII; to hold to the use of the said Margaret for term
of her life, and thereafter to the use of the said executors for sale for the
purposes of the said will. Barton, 12 January, 24 Henry VII. Seal, broken.



[Camb.]

A. 9942. Feoffment by Richard Waynflet, vicar of . . . . to
Richard Lacy of Graunceter and Robert Waryn of 1a. land in the town and
fields of Berton, next land of Thomas Owtelaw, &c., which he had by the
feoffment of William Cole of Cotyn. Berton, Saturday before St. (Sancte)
. . . . 10 [Henry] VI.



[Cornw.]

A. 9943. Feoffment by John Huden of Bodmin to John Toylle,
'cordewaner,' of the same town, of two places of land in the street of
Nyweham, and a parcel of garden annexed, situate as described. Wit-
nesses:—John Juyl, mayor of Bodmin, and others (named). Thursday
the eve of St. Andrew, 43 Edward III.

[Page 482]


Camb.

A. 9944. Feoffment by Richard Lacy of Grauncestre to Sampson
Aunger of Whitwell and Robert Aunger of the same, of a toft with a croft
adjacent, containing 1a., in 'le Barkerscroft' in the town of Berton, co.
Cambridge, between the tofts and crofts of the duchy of Lancaster on either
side; also of 5 roods arable lying dispersed in the fields of Berton, next land
of Richard Aunger, &c. Witnesses:—Nicholas Aunger, the younger, and
others (named). Berton, 25 April, 38 Henry VI. Seal.



[York, W.R.]

A. 9945. Feoffment by Richard le Loksmith of Burton to his son
John, of his burgage in Burton. Witnesses:—Thomas de Thornton,
Thomas de Clapham and others (named). Burton in Lonesdale, Wednesday
the feast of the Apostles Peter and Paul, 8 Edward III.



[Cornw.]

A. 9946. Indenture made 20 September, 25 Henry VII, at Mar-
ghasiowe, witnessing that William Gurlyn of Gurlyn had done homage and
fealty to Ralph Reskymmer, esquire, for the lands, &c. late William
Tregyllyowe's in Marghasiow and Marghasbyan. Witnesses:—John
Penrose Methele, William Rosmodres, John Lannargh. Seal, broken.



Cornw.

A. 9947. Feoffment by John Reskymer, esquire, son and heir of John
Reskymer, esquire, to Katharine his mother, in accordance with his father's
last will, [and to] John Skewys, esquire, her husband, of his manors of
Reskymer Cutter and Merthyn, to hold to the said John Skewys [and
Katharine] for the term of the life of the said Katharine; attorney to deliver
seisin, Nicholas Pentacost, 10 . . . ., . . . Henry [VIII]. Seal, a
gem.



[Cornw.]

A. 9948. Indenture being a feoffment by Oto de Trevarthian, knight,
to Odo Cam of Marghassiow and Alice his wife, in tail, with remainder in
default of their issue to John Neel, the younger, and Joan his wife, in tail,
with reversion in default of their issue to himself and his heirs, of the fourth
part of an acre of land English in the land of Brevannek Woles, between
the land of Stephen Gwycour and the land of the heirs of Ralph Vyvyan;
rent, 12d. at the feast of St. Michael in September for all service, save suit
of court twice a year. Witnesses:—Henry Trefussa and others (named).
Marghassiow, Wednesday before St. Ambrose, 4 Henry V.

Endorsed: Carta Odonis Carie de Markyowe.



[Cornw.]

A. 9949. Indenture of demise by Peter de Tremaen to James Gerveys,
for life, of two parts of two acres in Hellestonburgh; which two acres John
de Tremaen, his father, and Margery, John's wife, had by the gift of Peter
de Antron; together the reversion of the third part of the said four (sic)
acres which John Polpeer and Nicholaa his wife then held in right of
the said Nicholaa's dower. Witnesses:—Peter de Antron, John Pengersyek,
John Bloyou, John Polpeer, John Caerou. Monday before the Purification,
29 Edward III.



[Cornw.]

A. 9950. Feoffment by John de Polgrun, merchant, to Richard de
Carveynec and Isabel daughter of John de Tregoys, in tail, with remainder
in default of their issue to the right heirs of the said Richard, of the rent
and service of John de Trevanyhon for a messuage and a half acre of land
Cornish in the town of Trenahek, which the said John held of him for the
term of ten years, with the reversion thereof. Witnesses:—Richard de
St. Columb, Drew (Droco) Bullyn, Auger de Trenesek, John Rauf of
Bossoghan, John de Penhalwy. St. Columb (Sanctum Colanum), Tuesday
the morrow of the Apostles Peter and Paul, 6 Edward III.



[Cornw.]

A. 9951. Indenture being a feoffment by John Trethek, esquire, to
James Trewyff Lannargh, of all his lands, &c. in the town and place of
Erlyn, with the rent and service of John Nanscasek for the lands, &c. the
[Page 483]
said John held of him there; to hold the said lands, &c. and rent, &c. to
the said James in tail, rendering him 2s. at Michaelmas therefore during
his life and after his death a red rose at Midsummer to his heirs; with
remainder, in default of the said James' issue, to Elizabeth the wife of
Richard Ferres and the heirs of her body. Witnesses:—William Moun,
John Beauchamp of Bennerton, Thomas Durant. Erlyn, Thursday before
St. Denis, 18 Henry VI. Seal.

Endorsed: Lannargh versus Arlyn.



[Cornw.]

A. 9952. Release by Michael de Treres to Walter de Tretherf, of
all his right in lands, &c. in Trewarvene. Witnesses:—Thomas Trempol,
John his son, Thomas Treberek, Thomas Menhyr, Roger de Tresakwoster.
Dated at La Medeshole, Friday after the Annunciation, 12 Edward III.

Endorsed: Trevervene.



[Cornw.]

A. 9953. Indenture of demise by Thomas Alan to Michael Blake
for life of his lands &c. within the liberty and borough of Grauntpond,
which lie between the messuage of John Pascowe called 'Chy Pyncerna,'
the highway from Grauntpond to Tregony and the water called
Rostrythyowe; rent, during the life of Isabel his mother, a grain of corn
and after her decease 16d. yearly. 1 October, 22 Henry VI.



[Cornw.]

A. 9954. Feoffment by John Nichol to Walter de Tretherf and
Maud his wife of all his messuages and all his land of Tretherf, Goen
Restyr and Goen en lym, with common of pasture for all beasts and
estover of peat and gorse (blest' et javonibus) in all his land and moor of
Goen Restyr; to hold to them and the heirs and assigns of Walter.
Witnesses:—Stephen de Boswydel, Andrew de Caer, John and Thomas de
Nanskelli, Robert Frasc'. Tretherf, Thursday after St. Luke the Evangelist,
1345.



[Cornw.]

A. 9955. Feoffment by Randulf, lord of Tregot, to Andrew de Trederf,
for his homage and service, of a moiety of a croft called 'Crothors Pol,'
viz. from the ditch of Pennanscherweg and so from 'Sus [H] ors Pol' to
the great way leading from the bridge of Trered to Retyr, saving the moor
of Sud Retyr up to the sanctuary of St. Ladock (Sancte Ladoce) in common
to him and his heirs on the north west side; in exchange for three
half acres of land English yearly in the moor of Retyr; rent, 12d. viz.
at Truro fair (nundinas Truruye) 3d., at Mid Lent ('letare Jerusalem') 3d.,
at the Nativity of St. John the Baptist 3d., and at the Long Fair (long' nun-
dinas) 3d.; also grant to the said Andrew of common of pasture through
all his lawn (landam) in the same Retyr and estover of peat (et totum
estowarium suum de blesturis meis ubicunque blesta jacet) in the moor of Retyr,
for one hearth in Hors Pol; Randulf is not to alienate the moor (moram
humidam subtus predicte terre) to any except to Andrew and his heirs in
common; Andrew is bound to do suit to Randulf's court twice a year only,
at the next pleas after the Kalends of May and Michaelmas, on reasonable
summons, at Trederf, for all his land in Trederf and Horspol, and if in
mercy two or three times, however often in one day, he may make fine for
'j. pecher' of wine, the forfeit however having been emended by view of the
good men, &c. Witnesses:—Odo de Trewael, Robert de Silva, Thomas de
Penwern, Reginald de le Chonol.

Endorsed: Crofft Horspole.



[Leic.]

A. 9556. Agreement between Sir William de Trumpiton and Roger
Bagod and Amisia his wife, to wit that the said Roger and Amisia have
delivered to the said William all their land in the territory of Drayton,
three enclosures (culturis) excepted which he bought of them before, with a
messuage and a moiety of the meadow; to hold to him during their lives;
[Page 484]
he shall find them a dwelling (mansum) during their lives, he shall plough
all that land at his own expense, and half thereof he shall sow with his own
seed, and he shall receive yearly the crops of that half; the other half they
shall sow and take the crops, each party doing his own hoeing and reaping;
he shall yearly carry the corn of their portion in Drayton; they shall pay
yearly half the farm of 5s. to the house of Polesworth; after their death
they have given the whole land, with the messuage and meadow to Parnel,
William's daughter and her heirs, to hold of them and their heirs by the
rent of a pair of gloves, or ½d. at Easter, in consideration whereof the said
Parnel and her heirs shall pay 5s. yearly to the house of Polesworth. For
this William gave them beforehand 40s. For the keeping of this agreement,
&c., under penalty of 5 marks (fide interveniente sub pena quinque marcarum)
the said Roger and Armisia have put to their seals. Witnesses:—William
de Martiwast, William de Bracebrigg, Robert le Poter, Robert de Warda,
William de Rodevil, Ralph, parson of Drayton, Gurnay, Reginald the
tailor (cissore) of Drayton.



[Cornw.]

A. 9957. Release by John Stobulwas of Trederf to his son Ivo, of his
right in a half acre of land which the said Ivo held in chief and by homage
of Sir Randulf de Tregod in the town of Trederf with bond to the said Ivo
in half a mark daily and to the sheriff of Cornwall for the time being in
40s. for any infringement of this quit claim. Witnesses:—Thomas de Pen-
wern, Baldwin de Boswydel, Thomas Poer, Henry Clerk (clerico). Trederf,
Saturday after St. Scholastica, 16 Edward [I].



[Cornw.]

A. 9958. Acknowledgment by Richard de Podyford that he had
received the fealty of Roger le Tayllour, burgess of Bodmin, and received
the said Roger as free tenant of a messuage and 1a. land in Stymgelly, by
the feoffment of Reginald Lowys; also that he had received 12s. 6d. as a
relief on the said Reginald's death. Witnesses:—William Cowlyng,
William and Robert le Tayllour, Simon le Senescal, Nicholas Tregellest.
Bodmin, Monday before St. David, 7 Edward II. On tab for seal:—Bond
by John Martyn the elder, burgess of Bodmin, to Roger le Tayllor, burgess
of the same, in . . . . for divers cloths and cheeses sold and delivered
to him at Bodmin, Monday before the Nativity of the B.V.M., 1313.



Camb.

A. 9959. Feoffment by Richard Aylmer of Berton and . . . of the
same, to John Newman, Thomas Newman, Thomas Baron and William de
Burne of the same, of 2a. ½ rood of land in Berton, to wit in county
Cambridge, lying next land of the Master and Scholars of Corpus Christi
and St. Mary the Virgin of Cambridge, &c. Witnesses:—Richard Aunger
the elder and younger and others (named). Berton, 2 July, . . .
Henry VII.



[Cornw.]

A. 9960. Counterpart of demise by John Tretherf, esquire, to
Richard Herry and Joan his wife, for their lives in survivorship, of all the
lands, &c. in the town of Truruburgh, which he had by their gift, the
tenement wherein Henry Lawe, 'dyer,' dwelt, excepted; rent, a grain of
corn at Michaelmas. Witnesses:—William Bodrugan, knight, John
Bevyle, Henry Trevenoure, Reginald Tretherf, rector of the church of
St. Ladock (Sanete Ladoce), John Trewyk. Truruburgh, Monday after the
Translation of St. Thomas the Martyr, 8 Henry VI. Seals, one broken.



[Cornw.]

A. 9961. Feoffment by Alice late the wife of John the elder of
Trethaeck, widow, to Richard son of William de Tregos, her brother (fratri),
of all her lands, &c. in Tre[g]ellest, Chynalswyot and Guenneck,
with the reversion of . . . . which Alice late the wife of Richard de
Reskymer held in dower in the town of Tregelle[st and Ch]ynallswyot,
with the rent and service of John de Tregellest for land in Tregellest
[Page 485]
Witnesses:—Sir John Pedyt and Sir Roger de Reskemmer, knights, John
Cha[mu]nd, William and Matthew de Bonython. Trelanmur, Wednesday
before St. Augustine, [1] Edward III. Seal.

Endorsed: Tregelest.



[Cornw.]

A. 9962. Feoffment by Margery late the wife of Nicholas Arzyagon,
widow, to John Coly, 'skynnur,' her son, and Joan, daughter of John Myn,
his wife, in tail, of a place of land, in the town of Hellestonburgh, with a
garden adjoined, together with the reversion of a place of land, with a
garden there, which Esota late the wife of Peter Gwylgier held in dower
for the term of her life. Witnesses:—John Clemow and Robert Ponsou,
then reeves (prepositis) of Hellestonburgh, Robert Breel, John Myn.
Tuesday after Christmas, 21 Richard II.



[Cornw.]

A. 9963. Demise by John Tretherff, esquire, to John Michell of the
two holdings (tenuras) which John Jacobe and John Hoskyn formerly held
in the town of Trethelan; to hold, as one, for the term of a hundred and
one years at 16s. rent and 4s. 6d. for a heriot, doing suit twice a year to the
courts (curias legales) of his manor of Brongolowe, &c. 20 May, 8 Edward IV.



[Cornw.]

A. 9964. Indenture being a feoffment by Thomas Trevelek son and
heir of Robert Trevelek to Joan Androw daughter of Andrew Rouse, of all
his lands, &c. in the town of Grauntpont; also grant to her of a yearly rent
of 6s. 8d. from all his lands, &c. in Trevelek; to hold to the said Joan and
to his heirs of her body to be lawfully begotten; rent, a grain of corn at
Michaelmas, if demanded; he had given her seisin thereof with his own
hands. Witnesses:—Lawrence and John Penkevell, John Carnathour the
elder and others (named). Grauntpont, on the feast of St. Barnabas the
Apostle, 18 Henry VII. Fragment of seal.



[Cornw.]

A. 9965. Indenture being a feoffment by John Tretherf the elder,
esquire, to Reginald his son, in tail, of all his lands, &c. in the towns and
places (locis) of Trempol and Carbous, with 3s. 4d. rent from all his lands
in Treweros, except toll of tin and courts of his manor of [Treve]lwyth,
and the suit of court of his tenants there; rent a grain of corn at
Michaelmas; attorneys to deliver seisin John Tretherf, the younger, and
. . . . . Penkevell. Witnesses:—Edward Cortenay, earl of Devon, and
others (named). Trempoll, the feast of St. Simon and St. Jude,
19 Henry VII.



[Cornw.]

A. 9966. Indenture being a release by John Trevarthyan the elder
and John Trevarthyan the younger to Thomas le Veel of Trewrf of their
estate and claim of right in the towns of Bossozu, Trewrf and Kestel
Hornek, by reason of the gift of Isabel Bossozu made to John Trevarthyan,
father of the. said John Trevarthyan the elder; saving to them and their
heirs the rent and service which the said Thomas le Veel and his ancestors
were wont to do to them and their ancestors for all the said messuages
lands and tenements in Bossozu ['Trefruf and Kestel Hornek' struck out].
Witnesses: Thomas Burwyk of Marghassiou, Stephen Moilure, John
Kelleryon, Roger Trevarthian, Nicholas Gardreu, clerk. Trevarthian,
Wednesday, the feast of St. Simon and St. Jude, 18 Richard II.



[Cornw.]

A. 9967. Indenture of demise by John de Trevarthyan to Eustace
Trenaek and Eva his wife, for the term of her life, of all the messuages,
&c. in Marghasbyghan, with the rents and services of the free tenants and
their heirs, which he recovered against the said Eustace and Eva by writ
of right in the court . . . Tre[ge]wal; rent, . . . for all service,
save suit of his court twice a year. Witnesses:—Robert Clemmou, Nicholas
Cardreu, Richard Boskennau, Stephen Merthevderwal, William Quarrel.
[Page 486]
Dated at Marghadiou, Tuesday after the Beheading of St. John the Baptist,
45 Edward III.



[Cornw.]

A. 9968. Feoffment by German de Trelanbyghan to Ralph de
Tredenek, in tail, of the rent and service of John son and heir of Durant
de Trewens for the lands the said John held of him in Trewens; the like
of William de Trewens and — his wife; the like of Richard de
Tregod and Margaret his wife, for the lands they held of him for her life
and the lives of William and John their sons in Trelanbyghan, with the
reversion thereof; the like of German de Treworneves for the lands the
said German held of him for life in Trelanbighan, with the reversion
thereof; the like of Luke son of Joan Bradde for the lands the said Luke
held of him for life in Trelanbyghan, with the reversion thereof; with
remainder in default of Ralph's issue to the said German de Trewerneves,
in tail; with remainder in default of German's issue to William son of
John de Nanspeyti, in tail; with remainder in default of William's issue to
William son of Richard and Margaret de Tregod, in tail; with remainder
in default to his own right heirs. Witnesses:—William de Lanbron,
Richard Reskemmer, Lawrence Halap, John Chafmund, Philip Sor.
Trelanbyghan, Monday before St. James the Apostle, 32 Edward III.



[Cornw.]

A. 9969. Indenture being a feoffment by Oto de Bodrugan to Henry
de Bodrugan [his son] and Isabella . . . . and the heirs of the
bodies of the said Henry and Isabella, at 20l. rent for the first four years,
and thereafter by the service of a pair of gilt spurs at Midsummer, with
reversion in default of their issue to himself and his heirs, of the manor of
[Pendrym] with the mills of Melendrayth and Clys with the multure of all
his burgesses of Loo and La Shute and of all his tenants of the land of
Botpedek . . . the advowsons of the churches of Dulo and St. Martin
next Pendrim, the land oi La Stone, the borough of Loo and town of La
Shuta excepted . . . together with the homages and services of Philip
de Skenyek for land in Tredenek, of . . . ., of . . . . for land in
Bodkenver, of Luke de Trethewy, for . . ., of . . . . for land
in La Torre, of William de Trewledyk for land in Fosnewyth
of . . . . ., of John son and heir of John Perneth for
land in Coyspernet, of John . . . ., of Thomas de Ba and Joan his
wife and their heirs for land of Offrekeverel Bomaung[er] (?) . . ., . . .
6d. from Nicholas de Alneto, knight, for the stream (bedo) of the mill of
H [ess] enaforde, and the reversion of one . . . and . . . one
. . . expectant on the death of Agnes . . . . Witnesses:—Sir
William de Ferr', Sir Oliver de Carmynou, Sir John de Carmynou and Sir
John de Trejagu, knights, Thomas Peticru, Ralph de Arundel of Caryhays,
John Billoun of Trediwl. Dated at Glyn, Sunday after St. Hilary,
2 Edward III.

Endorsed: Truru. Pendrym.



Camb.

A. 9970. Feoffment by Henry Aunger the younger of Berton, co.
Cambridge, the younger, to John Freman, son of Richard Freman, John
Aunger, son of Henry Aunger, and Robert Fanne of Berton, of la. ½ rood
arable in Berton field, viz. l½ rood in 'le Holsfeld,' between lands of the
prior of Bernewell and of Thomas Charlton, and 3 roods in 'Hyll Feld,'
&c, abutting on 'Catsoweye.' Witnesses:—Henry Aunger of Berton,
Nicholas Aunger of Whytwell, the elder, Richard Cleve. Berton, Thursday
after the Epiphany, 4 Edward IV.



[Cornw.]

A. 9971. Letter of attorney by John de Trevarthyan to Nicholas
Cardreu to deliver seisin to Richard Westkennau and Joan his wife, of
[Page 487]
. . . . in the town of Brevannekwartha, for term of his life.
Trembethou, Friday before . . . . 45 Edward III.

Endorsed: Borwannek wartha.



[Cornw.]

A. 9972. Feoffment by Eoger, lord of Reskemmer, for the term of
his life, to Richard son of William de Reskemmer and Clarice daughter of
John de Lanbroun, or Lanbrun, in tail, of all his lands, &c. in Tredowargh
and Prestan, with the rent and service of Richard Ceregeaus and
Margaret his wife and their heirs for the lands, &c. they held of him
in Groegoed; rent, 2s. and suit to his mills of Tregudin; and after his
death, to hold of the chief lords of the fee; also grant that all the lands,
&c. which William de Reskemmer held for life of him, by his demise
in Roscurvill, should remain to the said Richard son of William and Clarice
and the heirs of their bodies, with the like remainder of the lands in
Roscurvil, which James de Reskemmer and John de Reskemmer respec-
tively held for life by his demise, and of a messuage and a third part of
the whole land of Tregudin which Odo de Trevael and Maud his wife held
for life by his demise; with remainder of all the above messuages, lands
and tenements, and the rent and service of Richard Cereseaus and his wife,
in default of issue of the said Richard and Clarice, to Richard's right heirs.
Witnesses:—Ralph Bloghyou and William Basseth, knights, Richard
Ceregeaus, John de Lanbroun, John Billon. Penren, Monday after the
Epiphany, 6 Edward III.

Endorsed: Grogyt.



[Cornw.]

A. 9973. Indenture being a feoffment by John Kembal of Helleston
to William Tregantalan, of all the lands, &c which Michael Adam held of
him by agreement (modo convencionario), in the town of Menlowarn, and
the rent of Bronwon; rent, a grain of corn for the first sixteen years, and
thereafter 100s. Witnesses:—John Lannergh and others (named).
Helleston Burgh, Friday after All Hallows, 1 Henry V.



[Cornw.]

A. 9974. Feoffment by Andrew de Trevelvarth to John Lowis, for
his homage and service, of la. land in Stymguelli, that to wit which the
said Andrew held of the heirs of John de Tregewelen, to wit a third part of
the whole town of Stymguelli; rent, 44d. at two terms of the year, to wit
Michaelmas and Bodmin Fair, and suit of court twice a year, upon
reasonable summons, and in the said land, and not elsewhere, &c.
Witnesses:—Stephen Hayn, sheriff of Cornwall, Sir Ralph de Arundel and
Sir Philip de Bodrugan, knights, and others (named). Seal with legend
S. Andree fil. Galt [eri].



[Cornw.]

A. 9975. Confirmation by Ralph de Tregod of the gift made by John
Stubulwas to his, John's, son Ivo of a moiety of all his, John's, land in the
town of Trederf; also grant that Ivo's, and his heirs' beasts be not vexed
outside the town of Trederf for any transgression; also grant to Ivo and
his heirs of common of pasture in his, Ralph's, waste, in his lawn (landa)
of Restyr for all manner beasts. Witnesses:—Master Robert de Rupe,
Warin de Tregod, John de Trewybrest, John de Hendre, John Clerk
(clerico) of Trebihan. Trederf, Saturday after the feast of St. Scolastica,
the Virgin, 1287.



[Cornw.]

A. 9976. Indenture of demise by Ralph Tresewys for the term of his
life, to John Trevertian, knight, of all his lands, &c. in the town of
Trevavon and Gayr; rent, 25s. and to John Burgh 10s. and to the chief
lords of the fee, &c. Witnesses:—John Arundell, knight, Geoffrey Seynt
Aubyn, John Trewessi and others (named). Indented, but apparently not
executed.

[Page 488]


[Cornw.]

A. 9977. Release by Henry Nanssogge, smith, to John Tretherf,
esquire, of his right in lands, &c. in Knooll, Hellan Woles, and Nans next
Trewethenek in the fee of Moresk. Monday after All Hallows, 15 Henry VI.
Seal, cracked. Endorsed: Knoll, Helland Wolas, et Nans; also . . . .
. . . Nans in feodo Moreske.



[Cornw.]

A. 9978. Indenture being a feoffment by John Reskemmer, esquire,
to Katharine daughter of John Tretherff, the elder, esquire, and the heirs
of her body of bis begetting, of all his lands, &c. in Chymedour, Wellis,
Sissewana and Leite, in the parish of Wynwala; rent, 6s. 8d. Witnesses:
—John Treffry, knight, John Arundell of Talverne, William Trevanyon,
Peter Bevyll and John Trelauny, esquires. Chymedour, 3 January,
14 Henry VII. Seal.



[Cornw.]

A. 9979. Feoffment by Richard de Champernon (Campo Arnulphi) to
William de Trembethou, of a place of land in the town of Porthia,
containing 16 perches in length and width; to hold to the said William
and the heirs of his body, at 12d. rent at the four terms appointed in the
manor of Ludeuon for all service, save suit of his court twice a year in the
manor of Ludeuon, and not elsewhere; with remainder, in default of
William's issue to Reginald his elder brother, in tail, with reversion in
default to himself; on the death of each of them, a heriot of 2s.
Witnesses:—William Vyvyen, John de Kelerion, and others (named).
Ludeuon, Wednesday the morrow of St. Mark the Evangelist, 9 Edward III.



Camb.

A. 9980. Feoffment by Sampson Aunger of Whitewell, son and heir
of Nicholas Aunger of the same, deceased, to Hugh Chapman of Cambridge,
John Puregolde, Henry Hawlehed, Paul Smyth and John Thurleby of Cam-
bridge, to the use of the said Hugh, of 7½a. arable, with a close of wood,
lying dispersed in the town and fields of Barton, which descended to him
from his father, viz. 4½a. and the close next land of the College of St.
Katharine the Virgin, Cambridge, late Richard Clyff's, 'Barton Brooke,'&c.
2a. next meadow of the College called 'Clare Halle,' &c. and la. in 'Middill-
felde atte Howdole,' next land of St. Katharine's College, late Richard
Aunger's, &c. Barton, 26 June, 22 Henry VII. Seal, apparently of arms.



Cornw.

A. 9981. Feoffment by John Tremayn, the younger, to John
Reskaemmer, of all his lands, &c. in the town of Kaer in the parish of St.
Erth (Sancti Ervi) in Penuit, co. Cornwall. Dated at the city of Win-
chester, Tuesday, the feast of St. Richard the Bishop, 9 Richard II.



[Cornw.]

A. 9982. (1) Feoffment by Joan late the wife of William son of
Robert, widow, to her daughter Margaret, in tail, of all her land in Hendra,
Tredyna, in Lananta and next Lananta, with her corn mill in Treyva, with
the homage, &c. of her free tenants to the said manor belonging, viz. of
Sir William de Botreaux for the land of Talrous, of Ralph de Trewrnou
for the land of Bolancan, of Robert Bosuaenou for land in the same town,
of the heirs of John de Lohou for land in Treyuf, of William Cayrou for
land in Caerougwyn and Caerouhors, of Henry Tredyn for land in the same
town, of Maud ([M]atill[idis]) de Tredyn for land in the same town, of
Thomas Potant, for land in the same town, of Thomas de Trevethou
Byghan for land in the same town, of Thomas Cariaus for land in Lananta,
of Ralph Beaupre for land in Carnbadyn, with the reversion of the
land, &c. which Ralph de Asse . . and Margaret his wife hold for life in
Lananta. Witnesses:—Oliver de Carmynou and John Petyt, knights, Peter
de Kyniel,William Wywyan, John de Treworthyan. Dated at [L]anggenet,
Tuesday the eve of St. . . . ., 8 Edward [II].

(2) Release by Edward de Bossorn to William son of Robert, of his right
in the homages, services and rents, &c. which he had by the gift of William
de Tregot, for the tenement which the said William son of Robert held
[Page 489]
of the said William in the towns of Treyuf, Kaeryhorgh, Kaergwyn,
Burtnanter, Boslankan and Carnboslankan. Witnesses:—John deTrebedou,
Alan Kernick, Henry de Kelygrin and others (named). Bodmin, Monday
the feast of St. Bartholomew the Apostle, 4 Edward II.

(3) Defeasance of a release made by John Symon of Kenniel to Reginald
de Trebethou of all his right in a messuage and all his land in the town of
Keniel, viz. that at the end of . . . . years he might re-enter thereon, to
hold for the term of his life of the said Reginald.

Copies on one skin.



[Cornw]

A. 9983. Letter of attorney by John Tretherff, the elder, esquire, to
Richard Wone and Richard Stokkys to deliver seisin to John Reskymer,
esquire, and Katharine his, John's, daughter, of lands, &c. in Trewynyan
and Bodanowe; to hold to the said John and Katharine in tail, with
remainder in default to the said Katharine in tail. Witnesses:—John
Treffry, knight, John Tremayn, John Arundell of Talvern, William
Trevenour and John Trevenour, esquires. Trewynyan, 8 January,
14 Henry VII.



[Cornw.]

A. 9984. Release by Richard son of Richard Sic of Helleston to
Robert Mowy, of his right in two tenements in the town of Helleston Burgh,
one tenement being in the street under the castle, which Richard his father
gave to the said Robert. [Mar]gasou, . . . ., 25 Edward III.



[Cornw.]

A. 9985. Letter of attorney by Roger [de Carmy]nou, knight, to
Ralph, parson of the church of St. Rumon, Henry Trewynnard and
W . . . . thou, to deliver seisin to Thomas de la Fenne and John de
Kendale, of the manor of Tretheves. according to his feoffment made thereof.
Tretheves, Monday after St. John before the Latin Gate, 22 Edward III.



[Cornw.]

A. 9986. Feoffment by John Trevarthyan, esquire, to William
[Tregyllyou of Marghas]syou and Joan his wife, and the heirs of the body
of the said William, of a tenement in Marghasbyan, with a garden, and a
parcel of land adjacent, next lands of the heirs of Lannergh, &c; to hold in
pure soccage, at 2s. 6d. rent and a pair of white gloves, for all service, save
suit twice a year to the manor of Trevarthyan; with remainder, if the said
William died without heirs of his body, to William son of the said William,
in tail, with remainder in default to Michael Tregyllyou, bastard son of the
said William the father, in tail. Witnesses:—John Trewoyff and others
(named). Marghassyow, Lady Day, 22 Richard II.



[Cornw.]

A. 9987. Feoffment by John Vyvyan, lord of Trevedryn, to Michael
Euty in tail, of all his place in Marghasbyan within the town of Marghasyou,
situate between the places of Odo Carn, John Perys and the heirs of Thomas
Burwyk, on the east, west, and north, and the highway on the south, and
of a garden between the gardens of the heirs of Lannargh and the heirs of
Trevarthyan; rent, 10d. at the two terms usual in the hundred of Penwyth
for all service save suit of his court twice a year at Marghasbyan; with
reversion, in default of Michael's issue, to himself and his heirs. Draft;
on back, draft of a letter in English commencing Der and tresty cosyn, Y
grete yow well, &c.



[Cornw.]

A. 9988. Feoffment by Thomas de Rosewyk to John son of John de
Tredewy and Isabel his, Thomas', daughter, and the heirs of their bodies,
in free marriage, of all his lands, &c. in the town of Landreynbyan,
rendering to him yearly the rent due and accustomed to the chief lords of
that fee; with reversion in default of their issue to himself and his heirs.
Witnesses:—Richard de Kestel, Henry de Treworneves, Henry de Boden,
Reginald de Rosewyk, Matthew de Boneydhon. Rosewyk, Monday after
St. Barnabas the Apostle, 11 Edward III.

[Page 490]


[Cornw.]

A. 9989. Grant by Walter Alchon of Kenegy to John de Trevarthyan,
of licence to erect a weir in the water running between his land of
Tregilyou and John's land in Trevarthyan, and to make the attachment
of the said weir in Tregilyou (faciendi attachamentum suum ipsius gurgitis in
terra mea et mora de Tregilyou), with permission to direct the whole of the
said water wherever convenient in Trevarthyan and to use it, with leave to
repair or reconstruct the weir when needed. Witnesses:—Alan de
Kernyek, Ralph Keyl, Ralph Vyvyan, John de Trewune, the younger,
Richard le Eyr of Trewolesyk. Marghasyou, Monday after St. Dunstan,
32 Edward III.

Endorsed: . . . . Tregilliow.



[Cornw.]

A. 9990. Feoffment by Peter Hayme to John his son and Elizabeth
daughter of Richard Treuthall, in tail, of all his lands, &c. in Enys next
Gwernek and Tregouscoys, with the rents and services of Joan late the wife
of John Baudyn and her heirs for lands, &c. in Newhamstret and next
Truru, and of Joan late the wife of Roger Trewethenell for lands, &c. she
held for life in the town of Tregewe, with the reversions thereof; rent, a
grain of corn at Michaelmas. Witnesses:—John Skewys and others
(named). Redruith, 20 September, . . . Henry VI. Copy or draft.



[Cornw.]

A. 9991. Indenture being a feoffment by James Lannargh to Joan
younger daughter of Ralph Trereys, of all his lands, &c. in the town of Entre
Vyan next Lannarghmur, and the tenement in the town of Trewarthanes
which John Symon held of him by agreement (in convencione), and all his
lands, &c. in Cardynan Vyan; to hold to the said Joan and the heirs of
his and her bodies together issuing; rent, a grain of corn at Michaelmas.
Witnesses:—Richard Tredyny, Robert Tremern, Roger Treovran. Lan-
nargh, Saturday after St. Martin, 19 Henry VI.



[Cornw.]

A. 9992. Indenture being a feoffment by John Nanskelly for the
term of his life to Edward Burnebiry, Master John Burnebiry, parson of the
church of Ekysbourne, and Nicholas Carvargh, chaplain, of all his lands,
&c. and services of tenants in Nanskelly, Penhale, Oddewode, Tregena,
Tregeny, Tre . . ryk, Bodmyn, Grauntpont and Strete Newham, by the
rent of a grain of corn at Michaelmas; with remainder to John his eldest
son and Richard his son successively in tail, with remainder to Lavina and
Joan his daughters, in tail, with remainder to Edward Burnebiry in tail, with
remainder to Joan wife of John Oppy of Grauntpount in tail, with remainder
to John Jaan son of Stephen Jaan of Penmyne in tail, with reversion in
default to his own right heirs. Witnesses:—John Tretherf and' Ralph
Trenewith, esquires, Stephen Boswydel, Ralph Tredynan. 1 April,
10 Henry V.



[Cornw.]

A. 9993. Indenture being a feoffment by Ralph Reskymer, esquire,
to Thomas Hele and Constance his wife, in tail, of a place of land,
containing 1½ perches, in Marghasbyan, and a close in Penmeneth, con-
taining 2a. land English, which place and close Michael Fyttok Tregher
and Sara his wife formerly held of him; rent, 4s. 6d. for all service save
suit of his court of Trevarthion twice a year. Witnesses:—John
Gotholghan of Marghasyowe, Michael Euty, William Clemmowe, Baldwin
Laury, John Benet Vyan. Dated at the town of Marghasbyan, Thursday
before St. George the Martyr, 29 Henry VI.



[Cornw.]

A. 9994. Indenture being a feoffment by Renfrey Meyndy to William
Reskymer, esquire, of all his lands, &c. in Langwith and Chyenodrek; to
hold to the said William in tail, at the rent for the next five years and a
quarter of a red rose at Midsummer, and thereafter at 40s. rent, at the
quarters usual in the hundred of Kerrier. Witnesses:—Richard Tregoes,
[Page 491]
Oto Trefuses, Michael Uty, John Spergour, John Kympe. Dated at Seynt
Maugan, 10 September, 8 Edward IV. Seal.

Endorsed: Langweyth & Chyanorthek.



[Cornw.]

A. 9995. Indenture being a feoffment by Isota late the wife of Hugh
Strange and cousin and one of the heirs of John Carwynnek, widow, to
Edward Tretherff, son of John Tretherff, esquire, of all her lands, &c. in
Carwynnek, Trevelek, Grauntpond in the parish of St. Creed (Sancte Crede),
Leskerdburgh, Brendon next Leskerd and Plymouth, co. Devon; to hold to
the said Edward, in tail, with remainder in default to Reginald his brother
and Katharine daughter of the said John Tretherff, successively, in tail,
with remainder to the said John Tretherff, esquire, his heirs and assigns.
Witnesses:—William Trevenour, esquire, John Wolvedon, John Trevythyk.
Carwynnek, 20 September, 15 Henry VII.




A. 9996. Counterpart of A. 9995.



Cornw.

A. 9997. Counterpart of indenture being a grant by Alice Fortescu,
widow, John Reskemer, esquire, and Joan his wife, and John Moyle,
esquire, to Philippa Carmynowe, widow, late the wife of William Kayell, of
a yearly rent of 3l. from the manor called 'Kalynsowe,' and from the
lands, &c. called 'Sawce Crowgres', co. Cornwall, for the term of her life,
in the name of all the dower coming to her by the death of the said
William. Witnesses:—Robert Wyloughby, knight, lord de Broke, John
Trefrye, knight, Thomas Grenefeld, esquire, John Trevanyon, esquire, and
Thomas Tresowell. Lanceston, 16 March, 13 Henry VII.



[Cornw.]

A. 9998. Acquittance by William Clerk and Dame Philippa his wife,
late the wife of William Bodrygan, knight, to Reginald Tretherf, esquire,
for 44s. 5¾d. for a relief on the death of John Tretherf, esquire, for two
parts of a knight's fee in Trevylwyth, Trenpoll and the Penmena (duabus
Penmena) which he held of them as of their manor of Tretheke. 20 April,
23 Henry VI. Seals.

Endorsed: A relyff for Trevellwith ij Penmena and other land.



[Cornw.]

A. 9999. Indenture being a grant by William Reskymer to Richard
Lanargh for life, for good service to be rendered, of 40s. pension which
Ralph Reskymer, esquire, his father had granted to the said Richard out of
the manors of Trevarthian and Trelowith. Westminster, 12 July,
5 Edward IV.



[Cornw.]

A. 10000. Feoffment by John Trevarthyan to William Coly of
Marghasyou and Joan his wife, in tail, of twenty perches of land in
Marghasbyghan, between the places of William Huder and William Quarrel;
to hold by knight service at 20d. rent and suit of court; with remainder to
Joan daughter of John Colyhuder, for life. Witnesses:—Nicholas Cardreu,
Robert Clemou and others (named). Marghasyou, Saturday the feast of
St. Philip and St. James, 46 Edward HI.







      

  


  

  
    
      PreviousTable of contentsNext
  


      
      

    

  

  
      
      
        
              
  
    
      
            


      
  

    
                      
    Footer menu
    
  
  
        
              
              
        Help
              
          
        About the project
              
          
        Terms of use
              
          
        Privacy and Cookies
              
          
        Accessibility
              
        
  


  


  
    
      
            Version 6.0. © 2024, University of London


      
  


        
      
    
  

  










